t* 


»  /  •« 


,  *JPflR 


*s 


jwi 


»! 


! 


;" 


*a 


*.# 


s. 


Z  OCT  13 

A.H.  Ikli  ffl 


DEC  23 

r 

VDEC 


B.uCT    * 


20 


K  JUL  13 

oct  kf 


a  »  feM 

A.  JUN  24 


BENNETT'S 

HOUSE, 

OFFICE  &  SHOP  DIALS 

EIGHT-DAY   PIECES 

In  Mahogany,  Oak,  or  Rosewood 
Cases,  warranted  for  perfect  time. 

CASH    TRICES. 

12  in.  £3    3 

14  in.  4    4 

16in.  5    5 

18in.  7  10 

20  in  10  10 

24  in.  15  15 


MAKjRTOTHE  QUEEN 

Bennett's  Keyless  Watches. 

NO   KEY   REQUIRED. 

AIR-TIGHT,     DAMP-TIGHT, 

DUST-TIGHT. 

Guineas.   Guineas.   Guineas. 

Silver    ..      6    ..      8    ..    10 
Gold      ..    10    ..    12    ..    14 

Persons  who  forward  their  Money  may  rely  on 
the  best  possible  Watch  by  return. 

Church,  Turret    *      and  Drawing- 
Railway,  House  jSfL   room  Clocks. 


BENNETT'S 

"model  watch 

Is  a  combination  of 
all  the  recent  improve- 
ments for  performance, 
taste  and  economy,  se- 
curing to  the  wearer 
the  indispensable 
comfort  of  per- 
fect time. 


£ 


33 


gentlemen's  Every  Watch  in  the  Latest  Style, 

rsm  n   qii  \/cd  "  »       » 


GOLD.  SILVER 


LADIES' 
SILVER.  GOLD. 


i-l\  i2toe2o..5nSTio  Suv%z£ndon:mAde :Lever Wat!hes' Jewell:d to V-.8* rtoeio..ioto2o 

7  tO  12..  3  to     5   Horizontal  Escapement.  Jewelled  in  4,  6  or  8  holes     ..         "   3  tO    5..    5  tO  12 

Keyless  Half-Chronometers.  Compensated  for  Variations  of  Temperature, 

adjusted  in  positions,  Winding  and  Setting  nands  without  a  Key, 

For  Gentlemen,  in  Gold,  30  to  40  Guineas  :  in  Silver.  16  to  25  Guineas 

Ditto,  for  Ladies,  with  richly  Engraved 

Gold  Cases  &  Dials,  from  20  to  30  Gs.. 


AN  ELEGANT 
ASSORTMENT 

OF 

'Drawing-Room.  Clocksl 

OF  THE 

NEWEST    DESIGNS. 
Astronomical,  Turret , 

AND 

OTHER    CLOCKS 

IADE  TO  ORDEK. 


<»i:mjHH 


OND'ONI 


JOTHEADMIRALTY. 


EVERY 

WATCH  SKILFULLY 

CONSTRUCTED, 

CAREFULLY  EXAMINED 

PROVED,  TIMED, 

AND  ITS 

PERFORMANCE 
GUARANTEED. 


J .     Fainted  Lady. 

','     Blade  Kul u a i. 


3.    Pink  Eye. 
/.    White  In •///>/. 

.'/  .       (/<)/{/<'//  /'M1//1'. 


6    Black  Potato. 

7.    Hi///////  Leaf 


WARNE'S 
MODEL  HOUSEKEEPER 


A   MANUAL  OF 


OMESTIC 

ECONOMY 

IN   ALL 

ITS 

BRANCHES. 

COMPILED  AND   EDITED   BY 

ROSS 

MURRAY. 

0  u  ^ 

Y/ITH  ORIGINAL  ILLUSTRATIONS  PRINTED  IN  COLOURS  BY  KRONBEIM. 

AND    NUMEROUS    WOODCUTS. 


LONDON : 
FREDERICK     WARNE     &     CO., 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


£ 

w 


*£ 


LONDON : 
CLAV,    SONS,    AND    TAYLOR,    PRINTERS 
BREAD   STREET   HILL. 


PREFACE. 


'THVHIS  companion  volume  to  Warne's  Model  Cookery  Book 
"*"  has  been  in  course  of  preparation  for  more  than  three  years. 
During  its  progress  the  Editor  has  attentively  watched  for  all 
new  discoveries  in  Science  or  Art,  and  has  carefully  tested  the 
receipts  and  advice  sent  in  by  Contributors,  so  as  to  ensure  their 
practical  utility. 

Of  the  Articles,  the  one  on  Potatoes  is  from  the  pen  of  Miss 
Hartshorn e,  well  known  from  her  own  and  her  father's  talents  > 
Miss  Jewry,  the  Editor  of  the  Model  Cookery,  has  examined 
or  contributed  the  additional  Cookery  receipts  and  useful  House 
hold  information;  Major  McCoy  and  two  ladies  of  good  posi- 
tion contribute  first-rate  amateur  experience  of  the  Poultry  Yard. 

The  Stable  and  the  Dairy  are  original  articles  by  competent 
authorities. 

For  "  Domestic  Science  "  (though  chiefly  original),  use  has  been 
made  of  Professor  Pepper's  "Cyclopaedic  Science."  The  "History 
of  Pottery  and  Porcelain,"  by  Joseph  Marryat,  Esq.  (which  every 
householder  of  taste  in  Ceramic  Art  should  possess),  has  afforded 
some    of    the    information   given    with    regard    to    old    china,   in 


vi  Preface. 

addition  to  the  personal  experience  of  the  editor.  The  works 
of  Henderson,  Cyrus  Redding,  and  the  Supplement  to  the 
"  Encyclopaedia  Britannica  "  are  briefly  quoted — in  conjunction  with 
the  practical  knowledge  of  a  first-rate  wine  merchant — on  the 
subject  of  wines. 

The  advice  how  to  act  in  case  of  accidents,  the  remedies 
for  poisoning,  and  instructions  for  the  care  of  the  sick,  have 
been  contributed  by  an  experienced  Surgeon. 

The  Plates,  printed  in  Colours  by  Kronheim  &  Co.,  have 
been  executed  from  original  designs  by  eminent  artists. 

The  Publishers  and  Editor  unite  in  offering  their  best  thanks 
to  numerous  Contributors,  and  trust  that  their  labours  may  be 
rewarded  by  the  acknowledged  utility  of  a  popular  and  practical 
Manual  of  Household  Economy. 

Bedford  Street. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGB 

INTRODUCTION         I 


THE   HIRED   HOUSE 3 

VENTILATION 6 

HIRING  HOUSES 7 

TO   PURCHASE  A   HOUSE 9 

BUILDING  A  HOUSE II 

LODGINGS         12 

FURNISHING 19 

DOMESTIC   SCIENCE 56 

HEAT 57 

LIGHT 72 

WATER         89 

ELECTRICITY 98 

THE  HOUSE-MOTHER         1 09 

FOOD 109 

FISH I45 

VEGETABLES 155 

THE  STORE-ROOM 1 96 

PICKLING  AND   PRESERVING 224 

COOLING   SUMMER   AND    HOT  WINTER   DRINKS 232 

HOME-MADE  WINES 249 

FOREIGN   WINES   AND   THE   MANAGEMENT   OF   THE   CELLAR    .  252 

BEER   AND   BREWING 263 

DAILY   DUTIES   OF  THE   HOUSE-MOTHF.R 28 1 

FEEDING  THE   FAMILY 2S1 


viii  Contents, 

TAGS 

SOCIAL  DUTIES 290 

ETIQUETTE  OF  A  DINNER  PARTY 294 

THE  BALL-ROOM 306 

THE  WEDDING .     .  313 

COUNTRY  VISITS 314 

MORNING  CALLS 316 

INTRODUCTIONS,  AND   LETTERS   OF  INTRODUCTION 317 

PRESENTATION  AT  COURT 32 1 

DUTIES  TO  THE  POOR 322 

FURS  AND   SKINS   OF  BIRDS „ 324 

CLEANLINESS 329 

THE  LAUNDRY  AKD   FUEL 342 

THE  STABLE-YARD  AND    ITS   OCCUPANTS 347 

THE   DAIRY 3§9 

THE   POULTRY-YARD 4°7 

DOMESTIC  PETS 43° 


LIST    OF    COLOURED     PLATES. 


A  Bird's  Nest,  229 
A  Breakfast  Table,  287 
A  Luncheon,  289 
A  Table  spread  for  Dinner 
a  la  Russe,  with  plateau 
of    Looking-glass    and 
Fountain,  291 
Aconiturn  Napellus,  475 
Atropa  Belladonna,  475 
Anchovy  Cutlets,  140 
Apples,  295 
Apple  Love  Knots,  178 
Apricots,  117 
Arum  Maculatum,  477 
Arrowroot  Fritters,  229 

Barberries,  211 

Bacon  and  Oysters,  287 

Biscuit  Puddings,  178 

Black  Kidney  Potato  (fron- 
tispiece) 

Black  Potato  (frontispiece) 

Boar's  Head,  338 

Boulette  de  foie  de  Veau, 
140 

Brawn,  287 

Bread,  287 

Broad  Beans  Mashed,  168 

Broiled  Lobster,  178 

Butter,  287 

Buttered  Lobster,  152 

Cauliflowers  Fried,  168 
Cheese  Pudding,  152 
Colchicurn  Autumnale,  477 
Cold  Chickens,  289 
Common  Hemlock,  481 
Common  Mezereon,  481 
Compote  (Orange),  54 


I  Conium  Maculatum,  481 
Crystallized  Bouquet,  54 
Crystallized  Currants,  211 
Crystallized  Oranges  (red), 

211 
Cuckoo  Pint,  477 
Cutlets  a  la  Milanaise,  140 
Cutlets,  289 
Curried  Eggs,  289 

Daphne  Mezereon,  481 
Deadly  Nightshade,  475 
Digitalis  Purpurea,  481 
Dinner  a  la  Russe,  J95 

Eggs,  287 

Eggs  Rumbled,  178 

Eggs  and  Tomatoes,  178 

Floating  Islands,  178 
Foxglove,  481 
Fried  Cauliflowers,  168 
Fritters  (Raspberry),  229 
Fruit  and  Flowers,  54 

Game  Pie,  168 

Golden  Eagle  Potato  (fron- 
tispiece) 
I  Greencaps,  211 
J  Greengages,  295 
:  Green  Hellebore,  475 
I  Grapes,  295 

I  Hellebore,  475 
Helleborus  Viridis,  475 
Henbane,  477 
Honeycomb,  289 
Hop  Tops,  168 
Hot  Rolls,  287 
Hyoscyamus  Niger,  477 


Ice  and  Flower  Ornament, 

54 
Iced  Pudding,  178 
Indian  Kebobs,  168 

Jam  Tart,  289 

Kebobs,  168 
Kidneys,  287 
Kidney    Potato     (Black), 
(frontispiece) 

Lambs'  Sweetbreads,  140 
Lambs'  Wool,  309 
Lemon  Pudding,  289 
Lobster  Broiled,  178 
Lobster  Buttered,  152 
Lobster  Cutlets,  152 

Maccaroni,  229 
Macedoine  of  Larks,  168 
Maizena  Pudding,  211 
Marrow-bones,  140 
Meadow  Saffron,  477 
Melon,  295 
Mezereon,  481 
Monkshood,  475 
Mustard  and  Cress,  287 

Nettles,  168 

Nightshade  (Deadly),  475 

Nightshade  (Woody),  477 

{  Omelette  a  la  Neige,  152 
Orange  Compote,  21 1 
Orange  Crystallized,  211 
Orange  Fritters,  229 
Oysters  and  Bacon,  287 
Oysters  Roasted,  152 


X 

List  of  Coloured  Plates. 

Painted  Lady  Potato  (fron- 

Raspberry Fritters,  229 

Taxus  Baccala,  475 

tispiece) 

Red  Crystallized  Oranges, 

Thatched  Pudding,  211 

Papaver  Somniferum,  481 

211 

Tomatoes  and  Eggs,  178 

Peaches,  295 

Ring  of  Flowers,  54 

Truffles,  309 

Pineapple,  295 

Roasted  Oysters,  152 

Pink-eye   Potato    (frontis- 

Roast Swan,  309 

Veau  (Boutelle  de  foie  de), 

piece) 

Rose  Basket,  54 

140 

Pink  Fritters,  229 

Rumbled  Eggs,  178 

Plums,  296 

Walnut  Leaf  Potato  (fron- 

Poppy (White),  481 

Salad,  289 

tispiece) 

Potatoes,  frontispiece  and 

Scalloped  Scallops,  152 

Wassail  Bowl,  309 

289 

Scalloped  Veal,  289 

White  Poppy,  481 

Potato  Cakes,  229 

Sheeps'  Tails,  Fried,  140 

White  Veglot  Potato  (fron- 

Punch Bowl,  309 

Sheeps'  Tongues,  140 

tispiece) 

Punch  Jelly,  309 

Solannm  Dulcamara,  477 
Spatchcock,  152 

Woody  Nightshade,  477 

Radishes,  287 

Spring  Bouquet,  54 

Yew,  475 

LIST    OF    WOODCUTS. 


Agaricus  Campestris,  1S9 

Aitchbone  of  Beef  (to 
carve),  299 

Apparatus  for  determining 
Elevations  by  the  Tem- 
perature of  the  Boiling 
Point  of  Water,  95 

Australian  Parakeets,  452 

Avadavat,  450 

Bantam  House  on  Lawn, 

409 
Barometer,  101 
Barometer,  Davis's,  103 
Barometer,   Standard,  102 
Blackcap,  455 
Boiled  Rabbit  (to  carve), 

302 
Boiled  Turkey  (to  carve), 

Boxes  (Horse),  352 
Breast  of  Veal  (to  carve), 

301 
Brewing  Utensils,  265 
Brewster's  Stereoscope,  81 
Brougham,  384 
Brougham,  Double,  384 
Brougham,  Single,  384 
Bullfinch,  436 

Cage  for  Goldfinch,  438 
Cage  for  Squirrel,  430 
Calf  (to  cut  up),  134 
Canary,  441 
Carving,  298 
Chaffinch,  440 
Cockatoo,  451 
Codfish  (to  carve),  298 
Coolers,  266 


Copper,  for  Brewing,  265 
Crested  Grebe,  327 

Deer  (to  cut  up),  136 
Diagrams  of  Colours,  13, 

Diagrams  of  Thermometer , 

63 

Diagrams  of  Transmission 

of  Light,  72,  73 

Diamond  Cut-throat  Spar- 
rows, 447 

Distillation,  91 

Dog-cart,  388 

Dormouse,  432 

Double  Brougham,  384 

Doves,  453 

Ermines,  326 
Expansion  of  Water,  89 

Fermenting       Tub       and 

Rouser,  266 
Fillet  of  Veal  (to  carve), 

301 
Forequarter  of  Lamb   (to 

carve),  300 
Fowl  House,  409 

Gig,  387 

Goldcrested  Wren,  456 
Goldfinch,  437 
Grebe,  327 
Grey  Parrot,  451 
Ground  Pla-n  for    Stable, 
347 

Half   a    Calf's    Head    (to 
carve),  301 


Ham  (to  carve),  302 
Harness,  382 
Hare  (to  carve),  302 
Haunch  of  Venison,  303 
Human  Eye,  76 

Java  Sparrow,  447 

Lamb  (to  cut  up),  136 
Leg  of  Mutton  (to  carve), 

300 
Mangers,  355 
Mash  Tub,  265 
Meadow  Mushroom,  18 1 
Mill,  Exterior  and  Interior, 

113 

Millstone  and  Hopper,  1 14 
Mushrooms,  181 

Agaricus       Campestris, 


Nightingale,  454 

Oats,  177 

Ox  (to  cut  up),  132 

Park-driving  Phaeton,  3S0 
Partitions,  353,  354 
Paving,  353 
Peacock,  426 
Pheasant,  427 
Pig  (to  cut  up),  137 
Pincushion,  30 
Polecats,  325 
Porcelain,  42 

Rainwater  Drains,  350 
Reflecting  Stereoscope,  So 
Refracting  Stereoscope,  81 


xii 

List  of  Woodcuts. 

Refraction,  83 

Sirloin  of  Beef  (to  carve), 

Turkey  (to  carve),  303 

Robin,  456 

298 

Roast  Fowl  (to  carve),  303 

Siskin,  440 
Skylark,  457 

Underback,  266 

Squirrel  Cage,  430 

Ventilation  of  Room,  7 

Saddle     of     Mutton     (to 

Stables,  347,351 

Ventilation  of  Stables,  352 

carve),  299 

Stereoscopes,  80,  81 

Victoria,  386 

Salmon  (to  carve),  298 

Stillions,  267 

Virginia  Nightingale,  449 

Seal,  327 

Sevres  Porcelain,  42 

Waggonette,  385 

Sewers,  42 

Tap  Trough,  268 

Waggonette  Canoe,  385 

Shepherd  discoveringMag- 

The  Eye,  86 

Wheat,  112 

netic   Stone   on   Mount 

The  Seal,  327 

Wheat  Sifting,  115 

Ida,  107 

The  Thermometer,  65 

White  Mice,  433 

Shoulder    of   Mutton   (to 

The      Thermometer      for 

Widah  Bird,  448 

carve),  299 

Brewing,  267 

Sifter  of  Wheat,  1 1 5 

Truffle  Dog,  183 

Zigzag  path  of  Lightning, 

Single  Brougham,  384 

Turbot  (to  carve),  298 

99 

THE 

MODERN    HOUSEHOLDER. 


INTRODUCTION. 

To  a  people  who  dwell  so  much  in  their  homes  as  the  English,  any 
information  which  can  tend  to  make  those  seats  of  domestic  life  happier, 
more  comfortable,  brighter,  and  more  attractive,  should  be  welcome;  and 
that  it  is  so,  the  success  of  most  of  the  popular  home  literature  bears 
evidence. 

There  are  numerous  works  on  the  subject  of  housekeeping,  but 
every  day  modern  Science  adds  to  our  knowledge  of  facts  tending  to  im- 
prove domestic  comfort,  and  to  promote  health.  Lectures  on  cookery, 
schools  for  instruction  in  it,  the  Food  Gallery  of  the  South  Kensington 
Museum,  offer  us  a  surprising  amount  of  information  as  to  the  most 
nourishing  diet  and  the  best  mode  of  preparing  it ;  while  the  secrets  of 
chemistry  and  the  principles  of  art  and  of  good  taste  are  placed  freely 
before  us,  to  assist  us  in  cleansing  and  adorning  our  dwellings.  To 
gather  up  some  crumbs  from  this  banquet  of  knowledge  has  been  our  en- 
deavour in  this  volume,  which,  though  not  exclusively  designed  for  the 
mistress  of  the  household  (the  stable-yard,  etc.  being  exceptions)  will  still, 
we  trust,  prove  most  acceptable  to  those  in  whom  the  "  rightful  sway  and 
due  supremacy  "  of  home  is  centred — the  "  housemother,"  as  the  Germans 
expressively  style  her. 

It  is  not  too  much  to  say  that  the  welfare — present  and  future — 
of  the  family  depends  chiefly  on  the  manner  in  which  the  Mother 
sways  the  domestic  sceptre.  Freedom  from  painful  pecuniary  anxieties, 
comfort,  health,  peace,  and  joy  all  depend  mainly  on  her  wise  use 
of  the  power  entrusted  to  her.  Even  future  generations  may  be  in- 
fluenced for  good  by  her  care,  or  for  evil  by  her  indolence  and  neglect.  For 
executing  so  great  a  trust,  knowledge  is  imperatively  necessary.  The 
tenderest  and  best-meaning  ignorance  often  injures  where  it  would  fain 
serve;  and  modern  education  has  been  somewhat  to  blame  in  not  blending 
more  of  domestic  training  with  the  accomplishments  which  would  well 
harmonize  with  it.  Artistic  taste  has  a  wide  field  for  its  exercise  in  the  home, 
and  music  is  one  of  its  best  relaxations ;  the  arts  need  not  be  abandoned 
for  the  scientific  knowledge  which  is  so  important,  nor  for  household  duties, 
which  when  well  and  regularly  performed  occupy  no  great  deal  of  time. 
We  believe,  as  education  takes  a  higher  and  more  thorough  tone,  domestic 
knowledge  will  advance  with  it.  Every  little  aid  which  can  be  given  on  the 
subject  should  meantime  be  afforded  ;  and  it  is  in  order  to  add  our  mite  to 

B 


Introduction. 


the  general  attempt  in  this  direction  that  we  have  collected  from  many 
sources,  and  gathered  from  the  memoranda  of  old  families  numerous  re- 
ceipts for  domestic  needs,  and  have  also  attempted  to  offer  some  popular 
hints  on  Science  in  its  connexion  with  daily  life,  and  on  the  constituents 
of  the  food  which  supports  our  existence.  To  give  the  analysis  of  every 
article  of  it  was  not  possible  in  a  volume  of  this  size,  containing  so  much 
also  of  other  matter  ;  we  have  contented  ourselves,  therefore,  with  pre- 
senting a  general  idea  of  the  constituents  of  animal  and  vegetable 
substances,  to  guide  the  housekeeper  in  judiciously  assorting  the  materials 
which  spread  her  table. 

The  article  on  the  Dairy  is  from  the  pen  of  a  writer  practically  and 
thoroughly  acquainted  with  the  subject ;  the  same  may  be  said  of  those 
on  the  Stable-yard  and  Poultry-yard. 

The  prescriptions  for  slight  family  ailments  ;  the  hints  of  what  should 
be  done  in  case  of  accidents  or  poisoning  ;  the  articles  on  ventilation, 
the  sick  room,  climate,  sleep,  diet  in  relation  to  disease,  etc.  etc.,  have 
been  contributed  by  a  Member  of  the  Royal  College  of  Surgeons,  and 
may  therefore  be  entirely  relied  on. 

Neither  have  we  forgotten  the  speechless  (we  cannot  say  mute)  friends 
who  often  share  our  dwellings  ;  some  knowledge  of  their  ways  and  wants 
cannot  fail  to  be  useful,  and  the  experience  of  the  accomplished  writer  on 
Domestic  Pets  assures  the  excellence  of  her  instructions. 

One  thought  has  forcibly  presented  itself  to  the  Editors  mind  while  she 
has  been  occupied  with  her  task, — namely,  how  wonderfully  the  wisdom 
and  goodness  of  the  Creator  are  displayed  in  the  system  by  which  all  his 
creatures  are  fed  ;  and  by  the  adaptation  of  different  kinds  of  food  to  their 
need  and  comfort.  How  marvellous  is  that  great  chain  of  being  by 
which  animals  depend  on  vegetation  for  existence  ;  man  on  animals  with 
vegetation,  and  vegetation  itself  on  the  breath  of  animal  life  ;— all  in  the 
first  place  nourished  by  the  bounteous  earth,  and  her  mantle  of  air — for 
the  analysis  of  food  might  go  far  deeper  than  the  constituents  given  in  our 
tables,  and  be  traced  back  to  the  gases  themselves. 

We  believe  that  even  so  superficial  and  popular  a  sketch  as  we  have 
given  of  this  subject — we  trust  it  may  lead  to  real  study  of  the  matter — - 
can  scarcely  fail  to  impress  the  mind  with  awe,  and  gratitude  to  Him  who 
"  openeth  His  hand  and  filleth  all  things  living  with  plenteousness." 


THE    HIRED    HOUSE. 


The  choice  of  a  house  is  a  matter  of  no  small  moment.  It  must  be 
directed  necessarily  in  the  first  place  by  the  means  of  the  inmate,  or  by 
the  needs  of  his  position  or  profession. 

It  is  usual  to  say  that  the  rent  and  taxes  of  the  house  should  not 
exceed  the  eighth  part  of  the  occupier's  income.  We  believe  that  this 
rule  is  rarely  carried  out.  A  man  often  requires  a  large  and  well-situated 
house  in  town  for  his  profession ;  it  would  be  ruin  for  him  to  live  in  a 
cheap  house  in  a  shabby  or  poor  neighbourhood  ;  or  well-born  and  well- 
connected  poor  people  find  that  they  must  (to  retain  their  position  in 
society)  live  in  a  higher  rented  locality  than  they  can  quite  afford.  In 
these  cases  the  housewife  will  often  be  required  to  exercise  more  vigilant 
economy  than  might  otherwise  be  necessary.  (Let  us  advise  her  to 
practise  it  on  superfluities  and  dress  :  but  of  this  hereafter.) 

Next  to  the  requirements  of  means  and  position,  we  must  put  those  of 
health.  In  fact  they  ought  to  be  our  chief  consideration,  for  no  house  is 
cheap  if  it  be  ill-drained,  ill-ventilated,  damp  or  dark, — defects  on  account 
of  which  houses  are  often  let  cheaply,  and  considered  bargains.  Alas  !  is 
the  dwelling  cheap  which  is  paid  for  with  life,  or  energy  ? 

Let  the  householder,  therefore,  select  as  healthy  a  locality  as  circum- 
stances will  admit,  with  a  clear  passage  for  air  at  the  front  and  back  of  the 
house — taking  care  that  the  outer  air  does  not  pass  over  any  nuisances,  as 
dirt-heaps,  uncovered  sewers  or  ditches,  in  its  way  to  the  open  windows, 
bringing  poison — slow  and  fatal — on  its  wings ! 

His  next  care  should  be  to  inquire  carefully  about  the  drainage  of  the 
future  home.  The  hirer  should  ascertain  if  there  is  a  sufficient  fall  for  it ; 
if  the  pipes  are  large  enough  to  carry  off  accidental  stoppages  ;  and  above 
all,  if  there  are  syphons  placed  to  prevent  the  return  of  bad  gas.  Without 
these  no  drainage  is  perfect.  It  is  often  difficult  to  ascertain  the  exact 
truth  as  to  these  facts  from  the  landlord,  or  from  previous  inmates  ;  but 
on  entering  upon  the  occupancy  a  little  attention  to  the  smells  of  the  house 
will  suffice  to  prove  whether  all  is  right  or  not.  The  landlord  is  bound  to 
keep  the  drainage  in  order,  and  an  appeal  (if  he  refuses)  to  the  inspector 
of  nuisances  will  shortly  set  all  right.  But  we  warn  the  housewife  that 
she  must  herself  be  careful  that  the  servants  do  not  pour  cabbage  water 
down  the  back  kitchen  sink  ;  as  the  smell  of  it — a  singularly  unpleasant 
one — is  so  strong  that  it  will  penetrate  all  over  the  house,  and  produce  the 
suspicion  of  a  bad  drain.  The  water  in  which  any  kind  of  cabbage  has 
been  boiled,  should  be  thrown  away  out  of  doors,  in  a  distant  corner  of 
the  garden,  if  possible  ;  chloride  of  lime  dissolved  in  water  should  occa. 
sionally  be  poured  down  the  drains  also,  to  secure  disinfection  of  all  kinds. 

B   2 


The  Hired  House. 


Miss  Nightingale  says,  "  It  would  be  curious  to  ascertain  by  inspection 
how  many  houses  in  London  are  really  well  drained.  Many  people  would 
say  surely  all  or  most  of  them.  But  many  people  have  no  idea  in  wha.t  good 
drainage  consists.  They  think  that  a  sewer  in  the  street,  and  a  pipe 
leading  to  it  from  the  house  is  good  drainage.  All  the  while  the  sewer 
may  be  nothing  but  a  laboratory  from  which  epidemic  disease  and  ill 
health  is  being  distilled  into  the  house.  No  house  with  any  untrapped 
drain-pipe  communicating  immediately  with  a  sewer,  whether  it  be  from 
•water-closet,  sink,  or  gully-grate,  can  ever  be  healthy.  An  untrapped  sink 
may  at  any  time  spread  fever  or  pyaemia  among  the  inmates  of  a  palace .* 

"  The  ordinary  oblong  sink  is  an  abomination.  That  great  surface  of 
stone,  which  is  always  left  wet,  is  always  exhaling  into  the  air.  I  have 
known  whole  houses  and  hospitals  smell  of  the  sink.  I  have  met  just  as 
strong  a  stream  of  sewer  air  coming  up  the  back  staircase  of  a  grand 
London  house  from  the  sink,  as  I  have  ever  met  at  Scutari  ;  and  I  have 
seen  the  rooms  in  that  house  all  ventilated  by  the  open  doors,  and  the 
passages  all  7^«ventilated  by  the  closed  windows,  in  order  that  as  much  of 
the  sewer  air  as  possible  might  be  conducted  into  and  retained  in  the  bed- 
rooms.    It  is  wonderful  ! 

"  Another  great  evil  in  house  construction  is  carrying  drai  ns  under- 
neath the  house.  Such  drains  are  never  safe.  All  house-drains  should 
begin  and  end  outside  the  walls." 

Ventilatioti  is  of  as  much  importance  as  good  drainage.  The  air  we 
breathe  contains  the  principle  of  life  or  death.  Oxygen,  or  pure  air,  is  life- 
giving  ;  carbonic  acid  (or  impure  air)  is  fatal  to  animal  life. 

The  free  circulation  of  air  prevents  the  accumulation  of  the  vitiated 
particles  which  form  carbonic  acid,  and  thus  increases  the  amount  of 
oxygen. 

The  danger  of  breathing  impure  air  is  great.  It  is  carbonic  acid  (a 
state  of  bad  air)  which  frequently  kills  the  miner,  or  the  man  who 
descends  into  a  well ;  it  is  the  carbonic  acid  in  the  air  of  crowded  rooms, 
or  churches,  which  causes  head-ache  and  drowsiness,  for  it  is  a  narcotic 
poison,  and  from  it  also  (tainted  with  other  impurities)  come  the  fatal 
fever,  cholera,  and  many  other  kinds  of  infection.  Every  room,  there- 
fore, should  be  well  ventilated,  especially  sleeping-rooms,  which  should 
never  be  used  unless  there  is  a  fire-place  in  them,  or  a  panel  of  perforated 
zinc  in  the  door.  We  will  explain  why  : — The  breath  of  each  person 
occupying  a  room  corrupts  a  certain  portion  of  air.  A  part  of  the  air 
imbibed  by  breathing  is  returned  by  the  exhaled  breath  in  the  form  of 
carbonic  acid.  Thus  gradually,  if  there  be  no  ventilation  or  circulation 
of  fresh  air  in  the  room,  the  whole  atmosphere  of  the  chamber  becomes 
poisonous  and  sometimes  fatal,  producing  death  in  sleep — a  kind  of 
apoplexy,  or   if  it  is    survived,  generating  afterwards  putrid  fever. 

It  was  the  carbonic  acid  exhaled  from  their  own  lungs,  and  not  dispersed 

•  "  God  lays  down  certain  physical  laws.  Upon  His  carrying  out  such  laws 
depends  our  responsibility  (that  much  abused  word),  for  how  could  we  have  any 
responsibility  for  actions,  the  results  of  which  we  could  not  foresee — which  would 
be  the  case  if  the  carrying  out  of  His  laws  were  not  certain.  Yet  we  seem  to  be 
continually  expecting  that  He  will  work  a  miracle— i.e.,  break  His  own  laws 
expressly  to  relieve  us  of  responsibility." 


Ventilation.  5 


by  ventilation,  which  killed  the  unhappy  prisoners  of  the  Rajah  of  Bengal 
in  the  Black  Hole  of  Calcutta,  as  the  small  chamber  in  which  they  were 
confined  was  called.  It  is  carbonic  acid  settled  on  the  floor  of  the  Grotto 
del  Cane,  in  Italy,  which  stupifies  the  poor  dogs  sometimes  driven  into 
it ;  it  is  carbonic  acid  settled  in  the  jungle — through  which  no  wind 
can  penetrate — that  kills  men  and  beasts  in  the  fatal  Valley  of  Death  in 
Java  ;  and  the  same  deadly  foe  to  life  and  health  exists  in  every  ill-venti- 
lated and  over-crowded  house.  Let  us  therefore,  if  we  would  be  well  and 
happy,  carefully  supply  our  apartments  with  pure  air  by  ventilation- 
opening  windows  and  keeping  the  register  of  the  fireplace  open. 

We  must  here  observe  that  the  eye  of  the  mistress  is  especially  re- 
quired to  secure  that  the  stove-registers  are  left  open  when  no  fires  are  in 
the  grates.  Housemaids  almost  invariably  shut  the  register  when  fires  are 
not  lighted,  and  many  a  headache  and  morning  drowsiness  may  be  traced 
to  the  fact.  The  unconscious  occupant  of  a  chamber  falls  asleep  in  a 
room  with  closed  shutters  and  door,  and  shut-up  grate ;  gradually  his 
breath  poisons  the  air,  and,  if  the  room  be  small,  he  has  before  morning 
absorbed  into  his  blood  (by  re-breathing)  the  tainted  air  which  carries 
in  it  the  seeds  of  disease.  An  open  register  admits  fresh  air  to  replace 
that  which  is  vitiated  by  breathing.  If  air  enters  by  chinks  or  keyhole, 
the  draught  will  be  towards  the  fireplace ;  therefore  care  should  be  taken 
not  to  place  the  bed  between  the  fireplace  and  a  door  or  window. 

A  fire  in  a  room  is  a  great  purifier  of  the  air,  and  when  it  can  be 
afforded  should  be  used  in  bedrooms. 

There  are  always  two  currents  of  air  in  a  room  ;  one  of  hot  air 
flowing  out  of  the  room,  and  another  of  cold  air  flowing  into  the 
room.  This  may  be  proved  by  holding  a  lighted  candle  near  the  top  of 
the  door.  You  will  perceive  on  doing  so,  that  the  flame  will  be  blown 
outwards  towards  the  hall  or  passage.  But  if  you  hold  the  candle  at  the 
bottom  of  the  door  the  flame  will  be  blown  into  the  room ;  this  is  not 
the  case  when  there  is  a  fire  in  the  room  ;  then  an  inward  current  is 
drawn  through  all  the  crevices. 

Heated  air  always  ascends  towards  the  ceiling,  and  floating  about  in  the 
upper  part  of  the  room,  escapes  through  any  opening  or  crevice  to  be  found 
there.  The  empty  space  (vacuum)  left  by  the  ascent  of  the  hot  air  is  in- 
stantly filled  by  the  outer  and  colder  air  rushing  in.  This  cold  air  drives  or 
presses  the  hot  air  out.  Thus  the  reader  will  perceive  that  to  free  the  air 
of  a  room  from  impurity  the  windows  should  be  opened  at  the  top, — to 
cool  a  room  the  windows  should  be  open  at  the  bottom,  that  is,  the  lower 
sash  should  be  raised,  as  the  cold  air  will  rush  in  there.  The  upper  sash 
must  be  opened  for  ventilation. 

There  is  no  draught  from  the  open  upper  sash,  as  thought ;  the  warm 
and  bad  air  rushes  out  of  it.  There  is  a  considerable  draught  from 
an  open  lower  sash,  as  through  it  cold  air  is  rushing  into  the  room.  This 
fact  is  very  important  to  be  known  by  those  who  are  nursing  invalids. 

A  ventilator  is  absolutely  necessary  when  gas  is  burned  in  the  room. 

We  add  here  a  paper  on  ventilation,  by  an  eminent  surgeon  whose 
instructions  may  be  taken  as  authoritative. 


VENTILATION. 

The  ventilation  of  dwelling-houses,  although  as  important  as  that  of 
churches  and  other  buildings  in  which  large  numbers  of  people  congre- 
gate, has,  however,  been  almost  entirely  overlooked  until  lately,  or  has 
been  allowed  to  take  quite  a  subordinate  place  in  the  architect's  plans. 
Gas  illumination  having  in  a  great  measure  superseded  that  of  candles 
and  lamps,  it  becomes  a  more  urgent  necessity  to  provide  some  means  for 
carrying  off  the  products  of  combustion.  These  products  are  more 
complex  and  more  dangerous  for  respiration  than  those  from  candles  and 
lamps  ;  yet  modern  houses,  although  generally  furnished  with  gas-fittings, 
are  built  without  any  provision  for  a  supply  of  fresh  air,  or  for  the  carrying 
off  of  the  foul  air.  It  is  an  established  physiological  law  that  no  room 
should  afford  less  than  a  thousand  cubic  feet  of  air  for  each  person  in 
health,  under  the  ordinary  conditions  of  inlet  and  outlet ;  for  the  sick- 
room not  less  than  one  thousand  cubic  feet  should  be  allowed  to  each 
patient.  This  quantity  of  space  is  the  least  that  is  allowed  for  patients 
in  the  large  hospitals  recently  erected.  There  is  one  simple  principle 
that  should  guide  all  contrivances  for  ventilation  purposes — viz.,  to  secure 
a  constant  change  of  the  atmosphere. 

Thorough  change  of  the  air  of  a  chamber  involves  the  admission  of 
pure  air  on  the  one  side  and  the  removal  of  the  vitiated  air  on  the  other. 

In  ordinary  rooms,  this  is  imperfectly  effected  by  the  fireplace,  and  by 
the  imperfect  closure  of  door  and  window  frames.  It  is,  perhaps,  a  source 
of  some  consolation  that  the  very  imperfection  of  modern  domestic  archi- 
tecture offers  some  degree  of  immunity  from  the  consequences  of  breathing 
air  that  is  vitiated,  either  by  the  lungs  of  human  beings,  or  by  the  com- 
bustion of  gas.  We  have  heard  modern  houses,  in  this  respect,  described 
as  patent  self-acting  ventilators. 

This  haphazard  mode  of  ventilation  is  unscientific  and  insufficient, 
being  effected  only  by  draughts  of  air  which  cannot  always  be  borne 
without  risk  to  the  health.  To  secure  the  thorough  change  of  air  that  has 
been  spoken  of,  a  good  ventilator  should  be  placed  in  the  chimney,  or  some 
part  of  the  wall  communicating  with  the  outer  air  if  there  be  no  chimney. 
As  nearly  as  possible  opposite  to  the  ventilator  a  flow  of  pure  air  should  be 
secured  at  the  top  of  the  room  as  well  as  near  the  floor.  If  only  admitted 
in  the  latter  position,  the  heated  impure  air  will  collect  at  the  top  of  the 
room  under  the  ceiling,  and  gradually  intermingle  with  the  air  below. 
By  a  little  skilful  management  of  the  cornice,  or  other  ornamentation 
along  the  top  of  the  wall  of  the  room,  concealed  perforations  may  be  made 
that  shall  admit  a  flow  of  pure  air  which  will  mingle  with  that  which  may 
also  be  admitted  in  like  manner  by  concealed  perforations  in  or  behind 
the  skirting-board. 

If  there  be  a  fireplace  in  the  room,  a  very  free  admixture  of  these  two 
air-supplies  will  take  place  before  they  reach  the  fireplace,  which  they  will 
surely  do  by  virtue  of  the  suction  power  of  the  heated  air  in  the  chimney. 

It  may  here  be  stated  that  in  the  summer  time,  when  fires  are  not  being 
used,  there  is  a  draught  up  the  chimney,  as  may  be  seen  by  holding  a 
lighted  taper  at  its  mouth.  A  downward  current  may  in  the  winter  time 
be  obtained  by  the  same  means,  from  a  chimney  in  which  there  is  no  fire. 


Hiring  Houses. 


We  have  said  that  a  good  ventilator  is  an  essential  part  of  the  system  for 
complete  ventilation  of  a  room.  A  ventilator  to  be  perfect  should  be  self- 
acting  with  the  current  of  air.  Arnott's  are  hung  on  an  erroneous  plan,  the 
reverse  of  what  they  should  be.  Being  fixed  on  a  hinge  at  the  lower  border, 
the  valve  requires  a  counterbalancing  weight  to  make  it  swing  with  the  cur- 
rent of  air,  whereas  if  it  be  suspended  from  its  upper  edge  at  a  proper  angle, 
and  be  made  of  some  light  material, 
as  talc,  it  will  open  with  the  slightest 
upward  flow,  and  be  effectually  closed 
by  the  reverse  movement,  the  down- 
ward current  of  the  air.  The  valve 
by  this  arrangement  prevents  the 
back  escape  of  smoke  into  the  room, 
and  secures  the  exit  of  the  vitiated 
air.  This  form  of  ventilator  will  act 
equally  well  with  or  without  the  pre- 
sence of  a  fire  in  the  grate.  They 
are  also  made  so  as  to  serve  for  the 
ventilation  of  halls  and  other  public  buildings. 

A  great  mistake  is  often  made  in  warming  rooms  by  gas  burners. 
More  particularly  is  this  objectionable  in  a  sick  room,  where  pure  air  is 
required  more  than  anywhere.  If  any  one  will  take  the  trouble  to  notice, 
he  will  find  that,  on  going  from  the  fresh  air  into  a  room  in  which  gas  is 
burning  (without  sufficient  ventilation,  or  a  flue  to  carry  off  the  vapour), 
there  will  be  distinctly  perceptible  a  more  or  less  pungent  smell  of  sulphu- 
rous and  other  vapours.  Where  therefore  gas  is  used  for  the  purpose  of 
warming,  the  warmth  is  obtained  at  the  cost  of  the  purity  of  the  air.  An 
open  fireplace  is  not  only  a  source  of  warmth,  but  it  is  also  a  means 
of  ventilation  and  purification  of  the  air. 

HIRING  HOUSES. 

Houses  may  be  hired  for  any  period.  By  agreement  for  three  years,  or 
by  leases  of  7,  14,  or  21  years,  or  by  the  week,  month,  quarter,  or  year,  if 
the  landlord  chooses.  The  rent  for  the  lease  is  generally  lower  than  the 
rent  for  a  three  years'  term.  The  three  years'  occupancy  rent  again  is 
generally  less  than  that  paid  by  the  year.  The  drawing  out  of  a  lease  is 
very  expensive,  never,  we  believe,  much  less  than  8/.,  and  frequently 
more.  There  is  nothing  paid  for  the  form  of  an  agreement  for  three 
years,  or  at  least  not  more  than  a  guinea. 

'  A  tenant  for  a  long  lease  generally  agrees  to  do  the  repairs,  and  to 
paint  the  house  inside  and  out,  at  certain  fixed  periods.  Unless  there  is 
an  express  agreement  in  the  lease  to  the  contrary,  a  tenant  is  bound  to 
pay  his  rent  even  after  his  premises  have  been  destroyed  by  fire.  Even 
if  the  landlord  has  insured  the  premises  against  fire,  the  tenant  will 
still  remain  liable  for  the  rent  if  they  should  be  burned  down,  and 
he  cannot  compel  the  landlord  to  rebuild.  But  if  the  landlord  has 
entered  into  a  covenant  or  agreement  to  keep  the  house  in  good  and 
tenantable  repair,  and  it  be  burned  down,  or  otherwise  destroyed,  though 
at  law  the  tenant  would  still  remain  liable  for  the  rent,  in  equity,  it  is 
submitted,  he  would  be  entitled  to  relief  during  the  time  the  premises 
remained  urdnhabitable.     As  repairs  are  generally  undertaken  by  the 


8  Hiring  Houses. 


landlord  in  a  three  years'  agreement,  it  is  manifestly  safest  we  think 
to  take  a  house  for  that  period,  rather  than  on  a  lease,  even  allowing 
that  the  rent  should  be  a  little  higher  than  for  the  latter.  But  without  a 
special  agreement,  the  tenant  is  still  liable  for  the  rent  after  the  house  is 
burned  down.  To  avoid  this  risk  a  householder  may  insure  for  his  rent 
yearly  at  any  Insurance  office.  Then,  if  he  is  burned  out,  the  office  pays 
the  year's  rent. 

A  tenant  is  not  bound  to  repair  damages  by  tempest,  lightning,  or 
inundation. 

If  the  landlord  agrees  to  repair,  and  fails  to  do  so,  the  tenant  or  lessee 
may  do  the  repairs  himself,  and  deduct  it  from  the  rent. 

If  a  lessee  remains  in  his  house  after  the  expiration  of  his  lease,  he 
is  liable  for  rent  accruing  after  the  termination  of  the  lease.  If  he  is 
allowed  to  remain  in  possession  without  renewing  his  lease,  he  is  called  a 
tenant  by  sufferance,  and  pays  the  same  rent  which  he  was  charged 
during  the  lease.  On  the  landlord's  accepting  any  rent  after  the  lease 
has  terminated,  the  tenant  becomes  a  yearly  tenant,  and  must  receive 
a  half-year's  notice  to  quit.  No  notice  to  quit  is  necessary  when  the 
house  is  held  for  a  fixed  period — as  three  years — the  tenancy  expiring  with 
the  time.  But  if  the  tenant  be  a  yearly  one,  (and  all  who  have  not  agreed 
to  take  their  houses  for  a  fixed  period  are  held  to  be  yearly  tenants,) 
notice  to  quit  must  be  given  six  months  before  the  expiration  of  the 
year,  so  that  the  notice  may  expire  on  the  very  day  the  tenant 
entered  into  possession  of  the  dwelling  : — for  example,  if  the  house 
was  taken  December  25th,  notice  to  quit  must  be  given  on  June  24th, 
and  the  tenant  must  leave  at  the  date  he  entered.  If  a  house  is  taken 
by  the  quarter,  a  quarter's  notice  to  quit  must  be  given  ;  if  by  the  month, 
a  month's  notice ;  if  by  the  week,  a  week's  notice.  Yearly  rent  is  paid 
quarterly — i.e.,  on  March  25th,  June  24th,  September  29th,  December 
25th — and  may  be  demanded  on  any  of  those  days  between  sunrise 
and  sunset ;  but  few  people  pay  their  rent  to  the  day.  It  is  usually 
settled  during  the  following  week,  and  (if  collected)  is  seldom  sent  for 
under  three  weeks  from  the  day.  Weekly  rent  is  paid  weekly  ;  if  suffered 
to  run  on  to  the  quarter  the  tenant  becomes  a  quarterly  tenant.  The  rates 
and  taxes  paid  by  the  landlord  are,  property  tax — land  tax — ground  rent, 
and  sewers'  rates,  which  the  tenant  pays  for  him,  but  deducts  from  the 
rent  during  the  current  year.  Most  frequently  however,  the  landlord 
stipulates  in  the  agreement  that  the  tenant  shall  pay  the  sewerage  rates. 
The  house  tax  is  paid  by  the  tenant,  and  is,  on  farmhouses  occupied  by  a 
tenant  or  servant,  and  on  houses  in  which  articles  are  exposed  for  sale, 
6d.  in  the  pound — on  private  dwelling  houses,  9^.  in  the  pound. 

The  parish  rates  (except  sewer  rates)  are  all  paid  by  the  tenant. 

Notice  to  quit  should  be  given  in  writing,  to  save  possible  blunders, 
though  verbal  notice  is  sufficient,  if  there  is  a  witness  to  prove  that  it  was 
given,  and  that  it  was  sufficiently  explained. 

The  following  is  the  form  for  giving  notice  to  quit  : — 

Sir, — I  hereby  give  you  notice  that  I  shall  quit  the  house  (or  apart- 
ments) which  I  hold  of  you  in street  (at  the  rent  of  £ per ), 

on day  of 18 — .  Your  obedient  Servant, 

Address  to  landlord  by  his  name  and  abode. 


To  Purchase  a  House. 


The  incoming  tenant  of  a  house  should  be  careful,  before  he  takes  pos- 
session, to  ascertain  whether  the  arrears  of  rent,  ground-rent,  taxes,  and 
rates  have  been  paid.  He  should  also  be  certain  when  he  pays  the  out- 
going tenant  for  any  fixtures,  that  they  are  not  the  property  of  the  landlord. 

The  state  of  repair  of  the  house  should  be  carefully  ascertained.  All 
broken  panes  of  glass  should  be  repaired  ;  or,  if  cracked,  a  note  should  be 
taken  of  the  fact,  otherwise  they  will  be  charged  to  the  tenant  on  giving 
up  possession.  Symptoms  of  damp  should  be  observed  It  may  be 
detected  by  stains  on  the  wall-papers  or  whitewash. 

He  should  also  see  that  the  sash-lines  of  the  windows  are  not  worn, 
and  that  bolts,  locks,  shutters,  etc.,  are  in  good  order ;  that  the  bells  ring ; 
that  the  floors  are  level  (for  if  they  are  not  the  edges  of  the  planks  will  de- 
stroy the  carpets),  and  that  there  are  no  gaps  between  the  boards,  nor  round 
the  skirting-boards.  If  Venetian  blinds  are  left  in  the  house,  they  should  be 
carefully  examined  before  purchasing  them.  He  should  try  if  the  water- 
taps  are  right,  and  ascertain  whether  the  water  is  on  the  main,  or  only 
let  in  at  certain  hours  of  the  day ;  whether  the  cisterns  are  indoors  or 
out,  and  of  what  materials  they  are  made.  A  leaden  tank  or  cistern  is 
dangerous  ;  it  should  be  lined  with  slate,  and  covered  to  keep  dust  and 
bad  smells  from  the  water.  An  out-door  tank  is  likely  to  get  frozen  in 
winter,  and  when  it  thaws  a  bursting  of  pipes  is  to  be  apprehended. 

In  short,  no  pains  should  be  spared  to  ascertain  that  the  house  is  as 
perfect  as  may  reasonably  be  expected  before  entering  on  its  tenancy. 

TO  PURCHASE  A  HOUSE. 

Purchased  houses  are  either  freehold,  leasehold,  or  copyhold.  Of 
these,  a  freehold  is  greatly  to  be  preferred.  It  becomes,  by  purchase,  the 
property  of  the  purchaser  for  his  life,  with  power  to  will  it  away  at  his 
death.  Any  improvements  made  by  him  on  it  increase  the  value  of  his 
possession,  and  are  not  only  for  temporary  enjoyment,  but  become  actual 
investments. 

A  leasehold,  on  the  contrary,  can  only  be  bought  for  a  fixed  period  of 
time,  longer  or  shorter,  and  at  the  end  of  that  time  reverts  to  the  original 
owner  or  lessor.  Long  leases  falling  in,  after  the  property  by  improve- 
ments of  tenants  or  other  causes  has  grown  valuable,  frequently  enrich 
the  descendants  or  heirs  of  the  lessors. 

Copyholds  are  held  by  lives  being  placed  on  them.     For  example: — 

Three  lives  may  be  put  on  the  house  ;  if  all  three  fall  in,  the  lease 
lapses  to  the  lord  of  the  manor,  and  is  lost  to  the  lessee.  Consequently, 
every  life  failing  by  the  death  of  the  individual  must  be  replaced  to 
preserve  the  property.  The  putting  in  a  new  life  is  a  very  expensive  affair. 
It  is  well,  therefore,  to  insure  the  life  placed  on  it  in  case  of  accidental 
mortality  ;  young  and  healthy  lives  should  also  be  chosen  for  this  purpose. 
But  this  kind  of  house  property  must  be  looked  on  as  a  bad  investment. 

With  all  these  objections,  there  may  yet  be  good  reasons  at  times  for 
purchasing  a  leasehold  house.  If  the  lease  be  for  70,  80,  or  99  years,  and 
to  be  had  cheaply  by  the  payment  of  a  moderate  ground-rent,  the  present 
outlay  may  be  compensated  by  the  house  costing  less  yearly  than  the 
purchase  of  a  freehold  would  involve.  All  leases  with  uncertain  fine? 
should  be  avoided.    A  short  lease  seldom  pays, 


jo  To  Purchase  a  House. 


The  title-deeds  of  a  house  should  be  carefully  examined  before  it  is 
purchased ;  indeed,  no  one  should  buy  a  house  without  employing  a 
lawyer  to  look  at  them  first. 

The  expenses  of  conveyance  must  be  calculated  as  forming  an  item  in 
the  outlay  for  purchasing  a  house.  They  are  much  greater  for  freeholds 
than  for  leaseholds. 

All  fixtures  put  up  in  a  leasehold  house  belong  to  the  lessor  or  original 
owner,  and  cannot  be  taken  away  at  the  expiration  of  the  lease,  unless 
otherwise  specified.  No  fixture  in  the  soil,  out-house,  or  fold-yard  can  be 
taken  away  ;  no  wainscot,  doors,  floors,  etc.,  can  be  removed  ;  but  a  tenant 
may  remove  any  conveniences  fixed  up  for  the  purposes  of  his  own  trade, 
as  counters,  engines,  brewing  utensils,  etc.  ;  the  removal  taking  place 
before  the  expiration  of  his  lease. 

Chimney-pieces,  pier  and  other  glasses,  cupboards,  bookcases  fitted  in 
recesses  or  against  the  wall,  and  wainscot  (if  it  is  not  nailed  but  put  up 
with  screws)  may  be  removed. 

An  outgoing  lessee  must  be  careful  to  leave  the  house  in  good  repair, 
as  he  is  otherwise  exposed  to  an  action  for  dilapidations,  which  might 
cause  him  great  expense  and  trouble. 

Before  purchasing  a  house  it  is  well  to  have  it  carefully  examined  by 
a  surveyor,  in  order  to  ascertain  that  the  walls  are  thoroughly  waterproof, 
that  the  roof  is  in  good  repair,  and  the  drainage  perfect ;  also  that  the 
roof  shall  not  be  one  which  will  retain  snow,  or  compel  the  sweeping  it 
away  with  difficulty.  An  exit  to  the  roof  is  desirable  for  this  purpose,  as 
well  as  for  an  escape  in  case  of  fire. 

The  chimneys  should  be  tested,  in  order  to  ascertain  whether  they 
smoke  or  not ;  indications  of  this  miserable  defect  may  be  seen  in  the 
nouse,  unless  it  has  been  painted  and  papered  since  its  last  tenant  left. 

"  A  dark  house  is  always  an  ill-aired  house,  always  a  dirty  house,"  says 
Miss  Nightingale,  in  her  invaluable  "  Notes  on  Nursing  ;"  "want  of  light 
stops  growth,  and  promotes  scrofula,  rickets,  &c,  among  the  children. 
People  lose  their  health  in  a  dark  house,  and  if  they  get  ill  they  cannot 

get  well  again  in  it One  of  the  greatest  observers  of  human 

things  (not  physiological)  says,  in  another  language,  '  Where  there  is  sun 
there  is  thought.'  All  physiology  goes  to  confirm  this.  Where  is  the 
shady  side  of  deep  valleys,  there  is  cretinism.  Where  are  cellars  and  the 
unsunned  sides  of  narrow  streets,  there  is  the  degeneracy  and  weakliness 
of  the  human  race — mind  and  body  equally  degenerating.  Put  the  pale 
withering  plant  and  human  being  into  the  sun,  and,  if  not  too  far  gone, 

each  will  recover  health  and  spirit People  think  the  effect  of 

sunshine  is  upon  the  spirits  only.  This  is  by  no  means  the  case.  The 
sun  is  not  only  a  painter  but  a  sculptor.  You  admit  that  he  does  the 
photograph.  Without  going  into  any  scientific  exposition,  we  must  admit 
that  light  has  quite  as  real  and  tangible  effects  upon  the  human  body, 
liut  this  is  not  all.  Who  has  not  observed  the  purifying  effect  of  light, 
and  especially  of  direct  sunlight,  upon  the  air  of  a  room  ?  Here  is  an 
observation  within  everybody's  experience.  Go  into  a  room  where  the 
shutters  are  always  shut  (in  a  sick  room  or  a  bedroom  there  should  never 
be  shutters  shut),  and  though  the  room  be  uninhabited,  though  the  air  has 
never  been  polluted  by  the  breathing  of  human  beings,  you  will  observe  a 
close,  musty  smell  of  corrupt  air,  of  air — i.e.,  unpurified  by  the  effect  of  the 


Building  a  House.  1 1 


sun's  rays.     The  mustiness  of  dark  rooms  and  corners,  indeed,  is  pro- 
verbial." 

The  Italians  have  the  following  truthful  proverb  : — 

"  Dove  non  entra  il  sole 
Entrail  Dottore." 

"Where  the  sun  does  not  enter  the  doctor  does."  Dwelling  in  so  cold 
and  moist  a  climate  as  we  do,  it  would  be  well  if  builders  were  taught  this 
truth  from  the  sunny  South.  It  is  better,  therefore,  to  choose  a  house  the 
aspect  of  which  is  east  and  west ;  most  assuredly  no  one  who  can  possibly 
avoid  it  should  hire  or  purchase  a  house  with  a  northern  aspect,  unless 
the  chief  sitting-rooms  face  south  and  are  very  open  to  it.  Air  through  the 
house,  and  sun-light  on  three  or  two  sides,  are  the  conditions  of  health. 

Suppose  that  the  householder,  as  is  sometimes  the  case,  has  no 
choice  of  his  dwelling,  he  may  still  do  something  to  improve  it.  Say  it  has 
damp  walls,  the  following  suggestions  from  that  excellent  paper  The 
Builder,  may  be  followed  with  advantage  : — "  Remove  the  whole  of  the 
damp  plaster  down  to  the  surface  of  brick  or  stone  walls,  rake  out  the 
joints,  clean  and  well  wet  the  surface ;  lay  on  a  coat  of  good  Portland 
cement,  mixed  with  one-sixth  sand  ;  be  careful  to  cover  every  part  of  the 
brick  or  stone ;  broom  or  otherwise  roughen  the  surface  of  the  cement  while 
soft ;  let  this  stand  a  few  days,  to  get  a  hard  skin  on  it,  then  re-plaster  in 
the  usual  way.  It  will  not  do  well  to  finish  the  inside  surface  with  Port- 
land cement,  as  condensation  will  take  place  on  the  surface  in  damp 
weather.  If  speed  in  execution  be  desired,  the  surface  may  be  finished 
with  plaster  of  Paris,  Keene's  Parian,  or  Martin's  cement,  with  the  usual 
proportion  of  sand." 

A  wash  of  boiling  oil  over  paint  is  also  an  excellent  method  of  keeping 
out  damp. 

Sometimes  the  dampness  proceeds  from  the  spouts  being  foul,  and  over- 
flowing, or  from  a  leakage  in  the  inner  side  of  one  of  them.  They  should 
be  looked  to,  repaired  and  cleci7ied  out;  the  latter  process  is  imperative 
occasionally,  as  birds  build  in  spouts  and  collect  immense  quantities  of 
rubbish  in  them ;  the  water  not  finding  a  free  passage  runs  over  and 
damps  the  walls. 

Preparation  for  Damp  Walls. 

Nitric  acid,  4  ounces  ;  sulphuric  acid,  4  ounces  ;  spirits  of  turpentine, 
3  ounces  ;  muriatic  acid,  3  ounces  ;  stove  sal  ammoniac,  1  ounce.  Mix 
to  a  consistency  of  colouring  in  8  pounds  of  lime  with  hot  water,  and 
apply  when  the  wall  is  least  damp  with  a  whitewash  brush. 


BUILDING  A  HOUSE. 

Miss  Edgeworth  calls  proverbs  "thewisdom  of  nations."  If  herassertion 
?s  correct,  the  said  wisdom  has  decided  strongly  against  building  a  house 
for  one's  own  habitation *    Nevertheless,  there  are  people  who,  looking  at 


*  Proverb: — "  Foels  build  houses  for  wise  men  to  live  in.' 


1 2  Lodgings. 


the  present  rapid  and  certainly  very  imperfect  development  of  houses 
which  are  built  "  to  let,"  feel  inclined  to  try  what  they  can  do  to  secure 
for  themselves  a  well-built  dwelling,  which  will  not  be  in  a  chronic  state 
of  disrepair.  There  is  something  to  be  said  on  their  side  ;  but  when  such 
a  resolution  is  taken,  and  outlay  is  not  a  matter  of  consideration,  we 
recommend  the  amateur  builder  not  to  be  his  own  architect,  but  to  employ 
a  good  practical  professional  architect,  who  will  listen  to  any  suggestions 
he  may  care  to  make,  and  be  willing  to  carry  out  his  plans  if  they  are 
judicious.  A  good  and  respectable  builder  is  then  necessary.  It  is  better 
to  contract  for  the  building  with  him,  at  a  fixed  price  and  specified  time, 
as  no  amateur  builder  ever  yet  calculated  exactly  the  expense  of  bricks 
and  mortar,  and  many  men  have  been  ruined  by  over-building  them- 
selves. 

The  architect  will  submit  a  plan  of  the  house,  which  should  be  carefully 
studied  before  it  is  accepted  ;  and  great  consideration  should  be  given  sic 
to  the  facilities  for  draining,  the  admission  of  sunshine  into  the  rooms, 
and  the  proper  ventilation.  While  the  house  is  building,  the  future  owner 
should  keep  an  eye  on  the  building  to  see  that  the  bricks  are  new  and 
water-tight,  that  the  foundation  is  deep  enough,  that  the  drainage-fall  is 
sufficient,  and  that  the  pipes  and  syphons  of  drains  are  well  cemented 
together.  The  want  of  cement  in  drain-pipes  often  causes  an  escape  of 
noxious  air  from  them,  or,  should  it  occur  in  the  gas-pipes,  of  gas.  He 
should  also  see  that  the  woodwork  is  well  done.  The  respectability  of 
the  builder  employed  will  guarantee  that  the  wood  is  well-seasoned — 
unseasoned  wood  will  crack  and  shrink  and  be  a  perpetual  annoyance 
and  trouble  if  it  is  used  for  skirting-boards,  doors,  etc.  etc.  The  floors 
should  also  be  looked  to  :  if  the  planks  are  not  laid  evenly  and  smoothly 
the  edges  will  cut  the  carpets  out ;  if  they  are  not  well  fastened  down 
also,  they  will  create  unpleasantness.  The  proprietor  should  also  take 
care  that  the  staircase  is  well  lighted,  as  nothing  is  more  disagreeable 
than  dark  stairs. 

For  persons  of  small  property  there  are  Building  Societies,  which  furnish 
the  means  of  purchasing  or  building  a  house  by  weekly  instalments  of 
payment  or  yearly  subscription,  and  also  are  useful  as  modes  of  invest- 
ment for  small  weekly  sums. 

LODGINGS. 

Furnished  lodgings  are  generally  hired  by  the  week  ;  unfurnished,  by 
the  year  or  quarter.  Payments  are  made  according  to  arrangements 
between  the  householder  and  lodger. 

One  of  the  greatest  objections  to  living  in  lodgings  has  been  removed 
by  the  recent  Act  to  protect  lodgers'  goods.  Formerly,  if  the  householder 
did  not  pay  his  rent  to  the  superior  landlord,  the  lodger's  goods  could  be 
seized  for  it.  The  new  Act  remedies  this  injustice.  By  it  a  lodger,  if  a 
distress  is  levied,  is  to  make  a  declaration  that  the  immediate  tenant  has 
no  property  in  the  goods  distrained.  Annexed  to  the  declaration  is  to  be 
a  correct  inventory,  and  if  the  lodger  shall  subscribe  the  declaration  or 
inventory  knowing  either  of  them  to  be  untrue  in  any  material  particular, 
he  shall  be  deemed  guilty  of  a  misdemeanour.  If  after  such  declaration 
and  inventory,  and  after  the  lodger  has  paid  or  tendered  the  rent,  if  any 


Papering  and  Painting  the  House.  1 3 


due,  the  superior  landlord  shall  levy  a  distress,  he  shall  be  deemed  guilty 
of  an  illegal  distress,  and  the  lodger  may  apply  to  a  police-court  for  an 
order  for  the  restoration  of  such  goods  ;  besides  which,  the  superior  land- 
lord is  to  be  liable  to  an  action  at  the  suit  of  the  lodger,  in  which  action 
the  truth  of  the  declaration  and  inventory  may  likewise  be  inquired  into. 
The  Act  is  not  to  extend  to  Scotland. 

Papering  and  Painting  the  House. 

Papering  a  house  is  a  subject  for  great  consideration  before  furnishing 
it.  Very  generally  the  landlord  of  a  dwelling-house  allows  the  incoming 
tenant  to  select  his  own  papers  at  a  fixed  price.  If  the  tenant  wishes  for 
a  more  expensive  paper  he  can  have  it,  of  course,  by  paying  the  extra 
expense. 

In  selecting  the  paper-hangings,  judgment  and  taste  are  necessary. 

We  should  always  recollect  that  wall  papers  are  the  same  (or  ought  to 
be)  as  the  background  to  a  picture.  They  should  not  therefore  be  such 
as  will  attract  attention  to  themselves  especially  ;  they  should  be  subdued 
in  effect,  with  no  strong  contrasts  of  colour,  or  of  shades  of  dark  and  light. 
Nothing  should  disturb  the  sense  of  flatness  on  the  wall.  The  tints  should 
be  simple,  the  objects  represented  on  it  should  be  conventionally^/. 

While  the  decorative  details  should  be  arranged  on  symmetrical  bases, 
these  should  be  so  resolved  into  the  minor  forms  as  not  to  be  obtrusive. 
Prominent  colours  should  be  broken  over  the  whole  surface,  so  as  to  give 
a  general  negative  hue.     There  should  be  no  masses  of  prominent  colour. 

If  the  householder  already  possesses  furniture,  regard  must  be  had  in 
selecting  the  papers,  to  the  harmony  of  their  colours  and  style  with  those 
of  his  furniture,  carpets,  and  curtains. 

The  effect  of  colour  in  producing  beauty  is  not  half  understood  by 
people  in  general.  An  apartment  in  which  the  harmony  of  colour  is 
perfect,  although  the  furniture  in  other  respects  may  be  of  very  moderate 
goodness,  will  far  surpass  in  effect  a  gorgeously  or  handsomely  furnished 
room  in  which  the  effect  of  the  mighty  enchanter  COLOUR  has  been  set  at 
nought.  A  right  blending  or  harmonizing  of  hues,  or  judicious  contrasts, 
can  only  be  attained,  however,  by  some  artistic  knowledge,  or  by  that 
instinctive  taste  possessed  by  some  persons.  A  few  words  on  colour  may 
not  be  unwelcome  to  our  readers,  while  on  this  subject. 

There  are  generally  said  to  be  three  primary  colours — red,  blue,  and 
yellow.     Any  two  of  these  mixed  will  form 
a  secondary  colour  ;  for  example,  red  and  primary. 

yellow  combined  give  orange  ;  yellow  and 
blue,  green  ;  blue  and  red  make  purple. 
Each  primary  colour  has  its  complemen- 
tary colour  in  the  other  two  mixed  toge- 
ther. Thus,  for  the  primary  RED,  yellow 
and  blue  combined  furnish  the  comple- 
mentary colour  green  ;  in  blue  and 
red,  which  produce  purple,  we  have  the  bi 
complementary  of  yellow.  In  the 
union  of  red  and  yellow  making  orange 
colour,  we  have  the  complementary  of  blue.     Of  course  it  is  clear  that 


14  Papering  and  Painting  the  House. 

the  complementary  colour  of  the  secondary  or  mixed  colours  must  be  the 
primaries  themselves. 

PRIMARY  AND  SECONDARY  SECONDARY  AND  TERTIARY  COLOURS. 

COLOURS.  .OHASTCE 

R.  .SECONDARE 


PntPts; 


ORiSCE, 


.GREENE  BlUJbi  GREY. 


In  practice,  therefore,  we  are  sure  of  harmony  of  tint  between  blue 
and  orange,  purple  and  yellow,  green  and  red. 

The  secondary  colours  form  by  their  union  the  tertiary  colours,  which 
are  greys — sometimes  distinguished  as  russet — citrine,  and  olive.  These 
also  have  their  complementary  colours  ;  a  red  grey  will  be  complementary 
to  a  green,  a  blue  grey  to  an  orange,  a  yellow  grey  to  purple. 

Colours  are  modified  by  mutual  neighbourhood,  some  becoming  dulled, 
some  more  resplendent  by  the  reaction  on  themselves  of  the  colours  next 
to  which  they  are  seen.  This  fact  was  long  known,  but  the  law  which  con- 
trolled them  was  discovered  by  M.  Chevreul,  director  of  the  Gobelins 
tapestry  manufactory. 

He  asserted  that  the  phenomena  of  colour  contrast  fell  under  two 
classes — the  contrast  of  colours  simultaneously  seen,  and  the  successive 
contrast  of  colours  seen  one  after  the  other  in  time.  It  is  to  the  former 
class  that  the  most  important  questions  regarding  domestic  art  belong, 
and  the  law  which  governs  this  class  of  contrasts  is  simply  this — t/uJ 
when  the  eye  sees  at  the  same  time  two  colours  which  are  in  near  neigh- 
bourhood, they  will  appear  as  dissimilar  as  possible. 

Chevreul  asserts  that  there  are  six  distinct  modes  in  which  colour 
harmony  may  address  itself  to  our  minds,  and  that  these  may  be  classed 
under  two  heads — the  harmony  of  analogous  colours,  and  the  harmony  of 
contrasts.     Under  the  harmonies  of  analogy  he  classes 

First  Kind. 

Harmonies  of  Analogous  Colours, 

1.  The  harmony  of  scale,  produced  by  the  simultaneous  view  of  different 
tones*  of  a  second  scale,  more  or  less  approximating. 

2.  The  harmony  of  hues, \  produced  by  the  simultaneous  view  of  tones 
of  the  same  height  or  nearly  so,  belonging  to  scales  more  or  less  approxi- 
mating. 

3.  The  harmony  of  a  dominant  coloured  light,  produced  by  the  simul- 
taneous view  of  different  colours  assorted  conformably  to  the  laws  of 

*  Pure  tints  modified  by  black  or  white. 
T  Hues  are  formed  by  the  modification  of  any  pure  colour  by  small  amounts 
of  some  other  colour. 


Papering  and  Painting  the  House.  t§ 

contrast,  but  one  of  them  predominating,  as  would  result  from  seeing  these 
colours  through  a  slightly  stained  glass. 

Second  Kind. 
Harmonies  of  Contrasts. 

1.  The  harmony  of  contrast  of  scale,  produced  by  the  simultaneous 
view  of  two  tones  of  the  same  scale,  very  distant  from  each  other. 

2.  The  harmony  of  contrast  of  hues,  produced  by  the  simultaneous 
view  of  tones  of  different  height,  each  belonging  to  contiguous  scales. 

3.  The  harmony  of  contrast  of  colours,  produced  by  the  simultaneous 
view  of  colours  belonging  to  scales  very  far  asunder,  assorted  according  to 
the  law  of  contrast  :  the  difference  in  height  of  juxtaposed  tones  may  also 
augment  the  contrast  of  colours. 

Chevreul  names  blue  and  orange  as  good  contrasts  ;  violet  and  yellow, 
red,  with  white  or  black,  in  juxtaposition. 

Colours  placed  in  juxtaposition  effect  a  modification  in  tint  or  hue  on 
each  other.  Place  blue  and  green  of  nearly  the  same  height  of  tone  side 
by  side,  and  you  will  perceive  that  the  blue  will  look  less  greenish  and  be- 
come more  violet,  and  the  green  will  take  an  orange  tinge. 

"  Under  similar  conditions  an  orange  and  a  red  mutually  affect  each 
other,  and  pass  respectively  towards  yellow  and  crimson.  Even  two 
white  stripes  by  the  side  of  two  black,  or  even  two  grey  stripes  matched 
with  two  brown  ones,  undergo  severally,  and  severally  induce,  a  change,  the 
tone  of  the  grey  or  the  brilliancy  of  the  white  being  heightened,  those  of 
the  brown  and  of  the  black  being  in  a  corresponding  degree  lowered  by 
the  mutual  neighbourhood  of  these  different  stripes.  It  is  then  a  phenome- 
non affecting  tone  (i.  e.,  relative  depth  of  greyness)  as  well  as  tint  (*.  e., 
relative  quality  of  colour).  Furthermore,  black,  white,  or  grey,  placed  in 
juxtaposition  with  coloured  stripes,  exhibit  changes,  the  character  of  which 
can  be  readily  anticipated  by  reference  to  Chevreul's  law.  Thus  white 
with  red  mutually  produce  difference  both  in  tone  and  tint.  The  high 
tone  of  white  (absolute  whiteness  being  the  greatest  height  of  tone  to 
which  all  colour  can  approximate)  reacts  on  the  tone  of  the  red  lowering  it. 
The  colour  of  the  red  reacts  on  the  colourlessness  of  the  white,  impressing 
this  with  a  slight  tint  of  the  colour  most  different  from  the  red — that  is  to 
say,  the  complementary  colour  to  the  red,  namely,  green.  Thus  red  and 
white  become  respectively  a  deeper  toned  (darker)  red  contrasted  with  a 
slightly  greenish  white.  Thus,  too,  black  and  red  become  a  very  faintly 
greenish  and  much  less  rich  black  and  a  more  white  (lower  toned,  paler) 
red.  The  hue  variations  become  marvellously  distinct  in  a  well-chosen 
grey  whose  tone  is  commensurate  with  that  of  the  colour  juxtaposed  to  it. 
Here,  the  modification  of  tone  not  affecting  the  relative  brilliancy  of  the 
colour  and  the  grey,  the  former  impresses  on  the  latter  its  complementary 
tint,  so  that  a  red  will  render  a  like-toned  grey  quite  perceptibly  green, 
itself  becoming  of  a  purer  redness,  while  a  blue  similarly  brightened  will 
impart  to  it  a  decided  orange.  Greys  slightly  tinted  with  any  colour  have 
that  colour  in  a  surprising  way  intensified  by  juxtaposition  with  its  comple- 
mentary, so  that  a  bluish  grey  will  become  almost  a  decided  blue  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  orange."* 

*  Fraser's  Magazine,  Nov.  1855. 


1 6  Papering  and  Painting  the  House. 

These  hints  on  the  art  of  colour  may  be  (if  carefully  thought  out)  of 
some  service  to  the  housewife  furnishing.  She  should  see  that  the  stuff 
which  covers  the  cushions  of  her  rosewood  chairs  is  of  a  colour  adapted 
to  set  off  the  wood  ;  and  then  be  careful  that  this  colour  is  in  harmony 
(whether  by  contrast  or  judicious  analogy  of  hue)  with  the  wall-paper,  the 
curtains,  and  the  carpet ;  and  that  the  various  hues  and  tones  of  these 
are  borne  out  by  tints  and  hues  on  cornice  and  wainscot  which  will  har- 
monize with  the  whole,  giving  an  effect  of  a  blooming  light  to  the  room, 
which  has  a  peculiar,  and  to  the  uninitiated  in  art  a  mysterious  charm  of 
its  own. 

The  greys  will  be  found  of  great  service  contrasted  with  their  comple- 
mentary colours,  and  shades  of  the  same  colour  are  also  pleasant  to  the 
eye.  In  papering,  forethought  regarding  the  furniture  to  be  placed  in  the 
room  must  constantly  be  exercised.  The  bloomy  papers,  all  of  one  tint, 
with  gold  mouldings  or  panellings  always  look  well,  if  the  colour  be  chosen 
with  regard  to  that  of  the  carpet,  curtains,  and  general  style  of  furniture. 
But  fashion  regulates  the  style  of  papers,  with  or  without  the  "dado." 

We  have  insisted  elsewhere  in  this  volume  on  the  beneficial  effect  of 
LIGHT.  Colour  has  been  said  by  one  of  the  wisest  and  most  practical  of 
Englishwomen  to  be,  like  light,  a  physical  boon  as  well  as  a  thing  of 
beauty. 

"  The  effect  in  sickness  of  beautiful  objects,  of  variety  of  objects,  and 
especially  of  brilliancy  of  colour,"  says  Miss  Nightingale,  "  is  hardly  at  all 
appreciated. 

"  Such  cravings  are  usually  called  the  '  fancies'  of  patients.  And  often 
doubtless  patients  have  'fancies/  as,  e.g.,  when  they  desire  two  contradic- 
tions. But  much  more  often,  their  (so  called)  'fancies'  are  the  most 
valuable  indications  of  what  is  necessary  for  their  recovery.  And  it  would 
be  well  if  nurses  would  watch  these  (so  called)  '  fancies'  closely. 

"  I  have  seen,  in  fevers  (and  felt,  when  I  was  a  fever  patient  myself)  the 
most  acute  suffering  produced  from  the  patient  (in  a  hut)  not  being  able  to 
see  out  of  window,  and  the  knots  in  the  wood  being  the  only  view.  I  shall 
never  forget  the  rapture  of  fever  patients  over  a  bunch  of  bright-coloured 
flowers.  I  remember  (in  my  own  case)  a  nosegay  of  wild  flowers  being 
sent  me,  and  from  that  moment  recovery  becoming  more  rapid. 

"  People  say  the  effect  is  only  on  the  mind.  It  is  no  such  thing.  The 
effect  is  on  the  body,  too.  Little  as  we  know  about  the  way  in  which  we 
are  affected  by  form,  by  colour,  and  light,  we  do  know  this,  that  they  have 
an  actual  physical  effect. 

"  Variety  of  form  and  brilliancy  of  colour  in  the  objects  presented  to 
patients  are  actual  means  of  recovery."* 

If  colour  and  beautiful  objects  have  this  effect  on  the  sick,  how  can  we 
doubt  but  that  a  beautiful  room,  bright,  or  soothing  from  the  effect  of 
colour,  will  have  a  good  and  wholesome  effect  on  those  who  are  in  health. 

How  much  of  ill-humour,  depression,  and  craving  for  excitement  may 
be  caused  by  a  dull,  dark  room,  without  a  ray  of  beauty  in  the  shape  of 
colour  or  fonn  to  enlighten  it. 

Let  your  walls  then  be  painted  or  papered  with  harmonious  colours  ;  or 
if,  unluckily,  you  have  no  choice,  and  the  dull,  heavy,  drab  paper,  or  one  of 

*  Miss  Nightingale's  "Notes  on  Nursing." 


Papering — Painting —  Colour.  x  7 


violent  and  vulgar  colouring  disfigures  the  room,  try  to  enliven  it  or  to 
tone  it  down,  as  required,  by  your  curtains  and  furniture,  or  by  bright  water- 
colour  drawings  for  the  first,  or  engravings  with  dark  or  oak  frames  for 
the  other.  Though,  really,  a  pretty  paper  may  be  had  cheaply  enough,  and 
the  expense  is  as  nothing  compared  with  the  benefit  conferred  by  it.  But 
of  some  delicate  attractive  tints  it  is  necessary  to  beware.  The  apple- 
green  papers  are  coloured  by  means  of  arsenic,  which  is  likely  to  fly  off 
into  the  air  of  the  room  and  slowly  poison  its  inmates.  The  writer 
remembers  that,  as  a  child,  she  was  always  conscious  of  a  feeling  of  dis- 
comfort and  sleeplessness  in  a  green  bedroom  ;  and  that  she  was  said  to  be 
fanciful  and  too  imaginative,  from  the  intense  dislike  she  took  in  conse- 
quence of  this  feeling  to  green  rooms.  Science  has  since  become  popu- 
larized, and  her  childish  distaste  is  proved  to  have  had  a  very  real  and  serious 
cause.  A  personal  friend  of  hers  will  never  again  be  quite  strong  from 
having  slept  for  a  long  time  in  a  bedroom  papered  with  green.  A  suspicion 
of  the  truth  having  been  roused  by  our  discussing  the  question  of  papers, 
the  one  covering  her  bedroom  wall  was  tested,  and  the  doctor  declared 
her  singular  illness  was  actually  slow  arsenical  poisoning  from  the  particles 
which  floated  on  the  air  from  the  paper.  Another  friend  of  ours — a  gifted 
artist — once  suffered  from  almost  a  fit,  caused  by  the  same  thing.  For- 
tunately he  only  passed  one  night  in  the  fatal  chamber,  the  paper  of  which 
was  pulled  down  by  order  of  his  hostess  the  next  day. 

With  regard  to  health,  Miss  Nightingale  says,  "As  for  walls,  the  worst 
is  the  papered  wall ;  the  next  worst  is  plaster.  But  the  plaster  can  be 
redeemed  by  frequent  lime- washing  ;  the  paper  requires  frequent  renewing. 
A  glazed  paper  gets  rid  of  a  good  deal  of  the  danger.  But  the  ordinary 
bedroom  paper  is  all  that  it  ought  ?iot  to  be. 

"  The  close  connexion  between  ventilation  and  cleanliness  is  shown  in 
this.  An  ordinary  light  paper  will  last  clean  much  longer  if  there  is  an 
Arnott's  ventilator  in  the  chimney  than  it  otherwise  would. 

"  The  best  wall  now  extant  is  oil  painted.  From  this  you  can  wash  the 
animal  exuviae." 

Bedroom  papers  should  be  light,  they  should  not  be  of  patterns  which 
tempt  the  gazer  on  them  to  count  them.  I  mean  that  alternate  rows  of 
bunches  of  flowers  or  fanciful  shapes  in  very  regular  order,  should  be 
avoided.  The  sleeper  awakened  should  not  have  rows  of  figures  on  the 
wall  which  tempt  him  to  count  six,  seven,  twelve,  thirteen,  as  we  are  all 
conscious  of  having  done.  This  is  very  disturbing,  and  as  it  is 
always  possible  that  an  invalid  may  occupy  the  bedroom,  it  is  to  be 
avoided. 

Next  as  to  warmth  or  coolness  of  colour. 

Dark  colours  are  wanner  than  light  ones,  because  they  absorb  heat 
from  the  sun  more  than  light  ones  do.  This  can  be  proved  by  experiment, 
and  is  indeed  instinctively  acknowledged  by  us  all.  Red  is  a  warm  colour. 
White  gives  coolness.  We  give  the  order  of  degrees  in  which  the  colours 
stand  as  regards  heat. 


1.  Black— warmest  of  all. 

2.  Violet. 

3.  Indigo. 

4.  Blue. 


5.  Green. 

6.  Red. 

7.  Yellow. 

8.  White. 


1 8  Papering — Painting —  Colour. 

Now  the  rooms  in  our  houses  have,  of  course,  different  aspects,  varying 
as  to  heat.  A  northern  aspect  never  gets  much  sunlight,  or  all  it  does  get 
is  very  early  morning  sunshine  in  the  heat  of  summer.  To  live  in  rooms 
or  a  house  which  has  o?ily  a  northern  aspect,  or  in  which  the  chief  rooms 
all  look  north  is  a  mistake,  as  we  have  before  said.  Nevertheless,  we  may 
find  in  some  corner  of  even  a  sunny  house  a  north  room  to  paper.  Let 
us  recollect  that  it  will  be  nearly  sunless,  and  provide  a  light-radiating 
paper  for  it.  Red  is  warm.  Light  red  would  be  bright  and  cheerful.  White 
would  be  best  as  to  light-giving,  but  then  it  looks  cold  !  Could  we  not 
choose  a  paper  of  the  two  mixed  ?  The  white  ground  with  bright  red 
figuring  on  it  ?  In  a  north  room  the  paper  and  furniture  should  be  both 
brightly  coloured.     Blue  is  also  pretty  for  a  north  room. 

A  warm  south  room  will  be  the  better  for  a  white  paper,  or  one  of  the  grey 
green  tint,  which  is  not  arsenical.  Yellow  is  a  restless  colour  in  which  the 
eye  feels  a  want  of  repose.  Yet  amber — one  of  its  shades — is  very  effec- 
tive in  a  drawing-room  facing  north. 

Let  our  readers  remember  that  papers  on  walls  retain  a  great  deal 
of  the  dust  which  passes  over  them,  and  require  dusting  as  much  nearly 
as  furniture  does.  They  also  retain  infection ;  after  scarlet  fever  or  small- 
pox the  walls  of  the  sick  chamber  should  be  repapered,  and  the  paint  and 
whitewash  of  the  ceiling  re-done.  Be  careful  also,  that  when  your  rooms 
are  papered  the  old  paper  is  first  removed — this  is  essential  to  perfect  puri- 
fication of  the  apartment. 

The  paint  in  a  house  should  harmonize  with  the  paper  and  the  furni- 
ture. With  a  pale  grey-green  paper,  the  doors  and  skirting  boards  should 
be  painted  pale  green.  With  paper  of  a  rosy  hue,  pale  strawberry  colour  ; 
or  the  finer  maple-wood  should  be  imitated  in  a  drawing-room.  Panels 
picked  out  in  gold,  and  gilt  mouldings,  are  great  improvements,  and  where 
expense  is  no  object,  tinting  the  moulding  of  the  ceiling  is  very  desirable  ; 
soft  shades,  light  and  dark,  of  grey  are  very  effective,  and  tints  of  colour 
blended  with  them  are  often  beautiful. 

Dining-rooms  are  better  painted  than  papered.  Fashion  assigns  them 
at  present  darker  paper  than  the  other  rooms.  In  London,  and  for  north 
rooms,  this  is  a  mistake,  as  it  occasions  a  diminution  of  size  to  the  eye, 
and  a  gloom  and  deficiency  of  light.  If  painted,  a  light  colour  would  of 
course  be  employed,  and  this  alone  is  an  advantage  ;  not  to  speak  of  the 
avoidance  of  fumes  of  dinner,  which  hang  about  a  wall  paper.  We  have 
two  charming  dining-rooms  at  this  moment  in  our  "  mind's  eye " — one 
painted  pale  green,  with  curtains  of  the  same  hue,  but  of  a  darker  tint — 
the  ceiling  picked  out  in  green  grey  and  pale  greens  ;  another  of  a  tint 
of  indescribable  salmon  colour,  with  a  crimson  carpet,  and  curtains  of  a 
darker  hue,  yet  retaining  a  due  harmony  of  tint.* 

To  get  rid  of  a  Bad  Smell  in  a  Room  newly  Painted. 

Place  a  vessel  full  of  lighted  charcoal  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  and 
throw  on  it  two  or  three  handfuls  of  juniper  berries,  shut  the  windows,  the 

*  For  ordinary  hired  houses,  paper  alone  is  attainable,  and  a  little  judgment 
and  knowledge  of  colour  and  its  effects  will  help  to  render  the  dining-room  plea- 
sant and  cheerful  at  a  much  lower  rate  of  outlay. 


Furnishing. — Carpets.  19 


chimney,  and  the  door  closely  ;  twenty-four  hours  afterwards  the  room  may 
be  opened,  when  it  will  be  found  that  the  sickly  unwholesome  smell  will 
be  entirely  gone.  The  smoke  of  the  juniper  berry  possesses  this  advantage, 
that  should  anything  be  left  in  the  room,  such  as  tapestry,  etc.,  none  of  it 
will  be  spoiled. 

FURNISHING. 

A  house  painted  and  papered  with  taste  has  next  to  be  furnished  with 
taste* 

Where  the  means  are  large  and  the  taste  good,  this  may  be  easily 
achieved  ;  but  it  by  no  means  follows  that  expensive  furnishing  is  tasteful 
furnishing.  Good  taste  may  be  shown  at  very  small  expense,  and  bad 
taste  at  a  great  cost ;  but  where  the  taste  is  equal,  the  means  will  largely 
assist  the  furnisher  in  making  her  dwelling  beautiful. 

The  great  improvement  in  art  during  the  last  twenty  years  has  enabled 
us  to  obtain  articles  of  exceeding  elegance  and  beauty,  and  it  is  only 
necessary  to  have  a  just  and  pure  taste  to  be  able  to  delight  the  eyes  and 
charm  the  mind  in  a  modern  home. 

Where  a  purchaser -is  doubtful  of  her  taste  or  knowledge  in  furnishing  a 
mansion,  it  is  wise  for  her  to  trust  to  those  of  a  very  first-class  upholsterer, 
but  it  is  pleasanter  every  way  to  be  able  to  choose  for  oneself,  and  a  Utile 
knowledge  of  colours,  and  study  of  works  of  art  will  soon  improve  an 
uncultivated  taste.  Bad  taste  is  shown  in  a  jumble  of  many  gaudy  tints — 
too  much  gilding — too  many  mirrors — an  overcrowding  of  furniture- 
furniture  of  size  disproportionate  to  that  of  the  room — an  air  of  stiffness 
and  unoccupancy.     No  expenditure  can  atone  for  any  of  these  defects. 

THE   ENTRANCE-HALL. 

The  hall  may,  in  the  country,  rejoice  in  sylvan  trophies  of  the  chase — 
antlers — the  fox's  head  and  brush  ; — old  carved  oak  cabinets  may  fill  in 
recesses,  and  within  them  may  repose  a  collector's  treasures.  The  carved 
oak  chairs  and  table,  the  umbrella-stands  like  them  in  material  ;  the 
blazing  open  grate  in  winter,  the  same  full  of  bunches  of  evergreens  or 
large  pots  of  hydrangea  or  azalea  in  summer,  frequently  renewed,  may 
make  it  a  pleasant  place  to  linger  in.  In  London  there  is  a  conventional 
type  of  table,  seats,  stands,  etc.,  which  must  necessarily  be  followed,  chiefly 
for  want  of  space. 

Carpets. 

The  carpet  of  a  room  should  have  a  quiet  and  negative  effect,  giving  an 
impression  of  flatness;  there  should  be  no  strong  contrasts  of  light  or 
shade  in  it.  The  leading  forms  should  be  composed  so  as  to  distribute 
the  pattern  over  the  whole  floor,  not  up  and  down  the  breadths.  The 
forms  should  he  flat,  without  shadow  or  relief,  whether  derived  from  orna- 
ments, flowers,  or  foliage.  The  ground  should  be  of  a  negative  colour, 
generally  low  in  tone,  and  inclined  to  the  tertiary  hues — i.e.,  the  greys. 

*  Furniture  may  be  hired  for  twenty  per  cent,  on  its  value  if  quite  new  ;  for 
example,  if  furniture,  which  to  purchase  would  cost  150/.,  is  hired,  you  would 
pay  30/.  a  year  for  the  hire.     Secondhand  furniture  is  let  at  ten  per  cent. 

C  2 


20  Carpets. 

distinguished  as  russet,  citrine,  and  olive  ; — leading  forms  of  the  pattern 
should  be  expressed  by  the  secondary  colours,  purple,  green,  and  orange 
—primary  colours  should  be  seen  in  small  quantities.  Such,  according 
to  the  principles  of  true  taste,  should  be  a  carpet ;  and  the  nearer  we  get 
to  these  suggestions  the  better  the  style  of  our  rooms  will  be,  but  at 
present  few  carpets  accord  with  these  rules,  and  we  are  compelled  to  make 
the  best  choice  that  we  can  from  those  to  be  had. 

Let  us  now  see  what  are  the  different  kinds  of  carpets,  that  we  may 
judge  of  the  value  and  expense  of  these  necessary  articles  of  English 
household  furnishing. 

Turkey  and  Persian  carpets  have  a  cut  surface  of  wool,  and  are 
always  made  in  oblong  squares,  with  a  border  round  them.  They  are  suited 
for  dining  rooms,  being  warm  to  the  feet,  and  bearing  much  wear  and 
tear.  Their  colours  are  generally  a  rich  and  fanciful  pattern  of  red,  blue, 
and  green,  or  yellow.  When  much  worn,  Turkey  carpets  may  be  shorn 
carefully,  and  will  then  be  as  good  as  new ;  they  are  expensive.  Our 
Axminster  carpet  is  an  imitation  of  the  Turkey,  but  surpasses  it  in 
value  and  richness.  The  pile  is  thick,  and  the  colours  brilliant.  This 
carpet  also  is  very  expensive.  The  Wilton  and  velvet  pile  carpets 
have  a  velvety  surface,  resembling  that  of  the  Turkey  carpet,  but  they  are 
liner  and  thinner,  and  the  pile  will  not  clip.  They  soon  grow  dirty,  and 
look  bad.  BRUSSELS  carpets  are  woven  on  a  foundation  of  flax  thread,  but 
their  pile  is  not  cut  as  the  Wilton  is.  They  are  called  three-thread  when 
each  loop  consists  of  three  woollen  threads,  and  two-thread  when  the 
loop  consists  of  two  only.  These  last  carpets  are  cheaper,  but  do  not 
wear  well.  An  old  Brussels  carpet  worn  quite  bare  to  the  foundation  will 
sell  well,  as  it  is  then  used  for  making  oil-cloth  on. 

Tapestry  carpets  are  woven  like  Brussels,  of  woollen  threads,  but  they 
are  dyed  in  short  lengths,  or  now,  we  believe,  stamped  with  colours. 
Their  colours  are  much  more  brilliant  than  the  Brussels,  but  they  do  not 
last  well,  and  are  not  cheaper  in  the  end,  though  they  cost  less  at  the 
moment  of  buying.  Nevertheless,  for  a  room  not  much  occupied,  they 
answer  extremely  well. 

Kidderminster  and  Scotch  carpets  are  woven  all  of  wool,  and  have 
two  sides,  so  that  they  can  be  turned,  but  they  are  of  no  substance,  and 
soon  wear  and  cut  out.  They  do  for  bedrooms  pretty  well,  but  will  not 
stand  much  wear. 

Dutch  carpets  are  made  on  the  same  principle,  but  have  a  woof  of 
flax — consequently  they  wear  better. 

Venetian  carpet  has  a  woof  of  flax,  and  a  web  of  woollen  threads, 
which  shows  on  both  sides.  It  is  only  used  for  strips  by  the  bedside,  or 
for  stair-carpets. 

Drugget  is  a  coarse  kind  of  woollen  carpeting  woven  like  flannel, 
which  wears  pretty  well  as  a  common  carpet,  but  is  chiefly  used  for  cover- 
ing better  carpets.     It  is  printed. 

Felt  is  wool  of  a  short  staple  matted  together,  not  woven.  It  is 
printed,  often  very  prettily,  and  catches  the  eye,  but  wears  very  badly 
indeed,  the  colours  rub  off,  and  it  is  soon  useless. 

Cocoa-nut  matting  is  very  durable  and  cheap.  It  is  used  for  offices, 
halls,  and  kitchens,  and  is  of  all  widths. 

India  Matting  is  made  from  grasses,  and  is  used  for  covering  carpets 


Carpets. 


in  bedrooms  and  dressing-rooms  on  spots  where  the  wear  is  very  great — ■ 
i.e.,  before  the  toilet-table,  washing-stand,  etc. 

Floor-cloth. — The  foundation  of  this  cloth  is  either  of  flax,  or  else 
the  foundation  of  an  old  Brussels  carpet — part  flax,  part  wool.  A  strong 
oil-paint  is  laid  smoothly  over  it  in  four  coats,  and  the  pattern  is  stamped 
on  it.     They  are  sold  by  the  square  yard. 

Oil-cloths  are  also  a  painted  material,  but  on  much  finer  and  thinner 
canvas.  The  oil-paint  finer,  and  pattern  more  delicate.  They  are  used 
for  table-covers  ;  but  we  object  to  them,  as  they  destroy  the  varnish  op 
French  polish,  under  them.  They  are  also  used  as  squares  under  hip- 
baths to  save  the  carpet  from  wet. 

Hearth-rugs  are  made  like  Axminster  carpets,  with  a  foundation  of 
flax,  into  which  tufts  of  wool  are  woven,  and  then  cut. 

Door-mats  are  of  the  like  make,  unless  they  are  of  skins  tanned  and 
dried.  Hemp  door-mats  are  used  for  the  outer-door,  as  best  suited  to 
take  off  mud  and  dust. 

We  must  say  a  word  here  about  the  rag-carpets  manufactured  by 
our  American  cousins.     They  are  thus  made  : — 

Old  cloth  clothes,  as  coats,  cloaks,  etc.,  are  torn  into  narrow  strips ; 
these  are  joined  into  one  length,  and  are  rolled  up  in  balls.  They  form 
the  warp ;  coarse  coloured  yarn  makes  the  woof.  It  is  sent  to  a  weaver 
and  woven.  These  carpets  are  comparatively  inexpensive,  and  last  long  ; 
but  as  we  have  never  seen  them,  we  know  nothing  about  their  appear- 
ance. 

Good  rugs  for  bedrooms  maybe  manufactured  at  home, by  cutting  pieces 
of  list  from  flannel  into  short  lengths  and  knitting  them  into  a  twine 
foundation.  First  knit  a  number  of  stitches,  sufficient  for  the  width  you 
require ;  on  the  third  row  begin  to  knit  in,  with  every  stitch,  a  piece  of 
narrow  and  short  list.  Make  it  the  desired  length,  line  it  with  any  piece 
of  old  carpet  or  drugget  to  keep  it  firm.  Short  pieces  of  red  flannel  might 
be  knitted  in  about  four  stitches  deep  at  each  end  of  the  row  if  a  border 
be  desired.  But  then  the  four  first  rows,  and  four  last,  must  be  of  red 
flannel  instead  of  list.     This  makes  a  cheap  and  comfortable  rug. 

Carpets  are  generally  made  up  by  the  upholsterer,  at  a  charge  of  three- 
pence on  the  yard.     This  includes  binding,  but  the  tape  will  be  extra. 

A  clever  woman  can  make  a  carpet  perfectly  well.  The  great  secret  is 
for  the  patterns  to  match  down  each  breadth,  a  little  puckering  and  some 
contrivance  will  easily  achieve  this,  and  there  will  be  less  waste  than  if  an 
upholsterer's  people  did  it — as  they  have  not  patience  to  contrive  and 
arrange  it  as  it  may  be  done.  The  moss  patterns,  which  are,  after  all,  the 
very  prettiest  and  most  picturesque  of  carpets,  save  the  waste  of  this 
pattern-matching  which,  unless  care  and  skill  are  shown,  is  excessive. 
If  coarse  paper,  used  for  the  purpose,  is  laid  over  the  floor  under 
the  carpet,  it  will  last  much  longer  and  feel  much  softer  to  the  tread. 
Caipets  are  laid  down  by  means  of  a  stretcher,  hammer,  and  tacks. 
The  first  thing  to  be  done  in  laying  down  a  carpet  is  to  clear  the 
room  of  furniture,  and  place  the  carpet  as  it  is  meant  to  go.  Then 
begin  at  one  corner,  and  nail  down  one  side  of  the  cut  ends  of  the 
breadths,  not  the  selvage  way.  Continue  nailing  down  by  the  selvage 
side.  The  carpet  is  stretched  carefully,  so  as  to  be  neither  too  loose 
nor  too  much  strained.     If  you  are  nailing  it  down  yourself,  and  you  have 


22  The  Dining-room. — The  Drawing-room. 

no  stretcher,  get  some  one  to  help  you.  Let  him  stretch  the  carpet  with 
all  his  strength  while  you  nail  it  down.  When  two  sides  are  nailed  down, 
nail  the  side  opposite  to  the  selvage  ;  and  lastly,  the  fourth  side  (of  cut 
ends  of  breadths).  Here  the  greatest  stretching  is  required  to  get  rid  of 
puckers. 

A  carpet  must  be  well  laid  down,  or  it  will  not  wear  well ;  it  is  best,  if 
it  can  be  afforded,  to  have  it  done  by  experienced  people. 

THE   DINING-ROOM 

Should  look  warm  in  winter,  and  cool  in  summer.  The  carpet  should  be 
a  rich  Turkey  or  Axminster — not  quite  covering  the  floor,  but  leaving  a 
border  of  polished  oak.  The  sideboard  should  be  (in  the  country)  of  old 
oak  carved,  all  the  furniture  matching  it ;  in  London,  of  polished  maho- 
gany, the  cellaret  to  match.  The  dining-table  should  be  oval,  of  polished 
mahogany  ;  the  chairs  of  the  same,  with  leather  cushions,  harmonizing  in 
colour  with  the  curtains.  The  side-tables  should  not  be  too  large ;  the 
chimney-ornaments  of  bronze  ;  on  the  walls,  family  portraits,  or  well- 
chosen  landscapes — not  paintings  of  any  painful  subject. 

The  colour  of  the  dining-room  should  be  bright  and  rich,  suiting  the 
aspect,  but  we  may  suggest  that  green  (of  a  grey  tint,  not  arsenical  green) 
is  a  good  colour,  as  it  is  warm-looking  in  winter  and  has  the  effect  oi 
looking  cool  in  the  summer.  It  harmonizes  also  with  the  rich  colours  of  the 
carpet.  The  walls  should  not  be  papered,  but  painted  delicate  green  and 
varnished — the  cornice  picked  out  with  tints  of  green  and  soft  greys.  The 
curtains  should  be  of  rep  or  damask,  the  leather  of  the  chairs  of  the 
same  colour  ;  or,  of  a  perfect  interval  of  shade  between  them  and  the  wall. 

Dinner  Table  Ornaments. 

The  dinners  a  la  Russe  exact  more  splendid  ornaments  for  the  dinner- 
table  than  were  formerly  required.  The  Exhibition  of  1878  has  furnished 
several  specimens  of  beautiful  dinner-table  decorations. 

About  one  of  the  prettiest  is  the  looking-glass  plateau  with  the  scented 
fountain,  represented  in  the  plate.  Of  course,  the  difficulty  of  drawing  it 
has  been  great,  but  it  will  be  understood  that  the  vases  of  flowers  standing 
on  it,  the  perfumed  water,  and  the  fruits  and  creams  are  all  reflected  in 
the  looking-glass,  which  will  also  shine  and  glitter  in  the  gas-light  above. 
The  rim,  filled  with  sand,  holds  flowers.  Nothing  can  be  prettier  than 
this  for  a  Russian  dinner  ;  we  think,  even  the  splendour  of  a  silver 
plateau  cannot  surpass  its  effect. 

These  dinner  ornaments  may  fairly  be  classed,  we  think,  with  furniture, 
although  they  are,  of  course,  only  used  at  dinner-time. 

THE    DRAWING-ROOM 

Might  have  a  light-coloured  paper  and  paint  picked  out  with  gold,  and 
the  cornice  and  ceiling  the  same,  with  soft  shades  of  grey.  The  furni- 
ture may  then  be  of  any  hue  chosen.  Amber  is  very  elegant;  peach- 
bloom  delicate  ;  or  pale  green.  Blue  is  also  pretty,  but  the  instructions 
given  as  to  colour  must  be  remembered  in  every  case.  Chintz,  and  under 
muslin  curtains,  are  pretty  for  summer.  The  furniture  might  be  somewhat 
as  follows  : — ■ 


The  Library. —  The  Schoolroom.  23 


List  of  Furniture  for  Drawing-room. 

Brussels  carpet  or  velvet  pile,  hearth-rug  to  match,  or  fender-st.ool  of 
worsted  work — fender  and  fireirons. 

In  summer,  a  looking-glass  chimney-board,  upper  portion  perforated 
to  let  air  in  ;  a  rustic  screen  where  fender  would  be,  and  hot-house  plants 
in  it  on  a  raised  stand,  or  velvet  curtains  trimmed  with  lace. 

Loo-table.     Pembroke-table. 

Small  tables,  marble  tops,  for  vases  of  flowers.     Five  o'clock  tea-table. 

Chess  table.     Ladies'  work-table. 

Console  tables  and  mirrors. 

Davenport ;  or  fancy  writing-table,  furnished  with  inkstand,  penstand, 
blotting-book,  letter-weigher,  taper,  pen-wiper,  china  saucer,  with  seals, 
wax,  etc.  etc.     Grand  piano. 

Two  large  china  vases  for  flowers. 

Brackets  for  old  china  and  statuettes. 

Chimneypiece,  pier  glass,  handsome  clock,  lustres,  china  vases  and 
figures. 

Sofa,  ottoman  centre,  occasional  table  for  tea,  footstools,  prie-dieu 
chair. 

The  sofa,  chairs,  and  ottoman  should  be  of  the  same  coloured  satin  as 
the  curtains,  covered,  in  summer,  with  chintz. 

Fire-screens,  banner-screens,  knick-knacks  on  tables,  etc.  etc. 

The  wall  pictures  may  be  left  to  the  owner's  taste. 

Above  all,  the  room  should  have  an  air  of  comfort  and  occupancy. 
Books  lying  about  here  and  there — not  the  magnificent  volumes  of 
engravings,  etc.  which  lie  on  the  loo-tables,  but  readable  books  and 
periodicals — a  lady's  open  workbox — chairs  moved  from  their  places,  give 
the  home-like  air  which  has  so  great  a  charm  for  the  casual  visitor 

THE   LIBRARY 

Should  have  a  rich  Turkey  carpet,  and  the  furniture  should  be  of  a 
handsome  and  stately  character,  of  carved  oak  or  rosewood.  Above  the 
bookshelves  should  be  busts  of  distinguished  authors,  and  in  the  intervals 
between  them  Mercuries  (or  tall  stands)  with  the  same.  Over  the  mantel- 
piece a  good  picture  ;  on  the  chimney-piece  itself  a  marble  or  bronze 
timepiece ;  bronze  ornaments  ;  a  centre  table,  two  writing  tables  with 
small  drawers,  duly  fitted  up  with  inkstand,  pens,  blotting-books,  tapers, 
letter-weighers,  paper  weights ;  a  Postal  Directory  on  one,  a  Peerage  on 
the  other,  a  barrel  of  string,  large  scissors,  paper-knives,  penknives  ; 
globes  and  maps  between  the  bookshelves  ;  a  portfolio,  stand  for 
choice  engravings  ;  a  cabinet  for  gems  of  art ;  general  colouring  grave  and 
warm. 

THE   SCHOOLROOM. 

The  schoolroom  should,  if  possible,  receive  the  morning  sun,  which 
will  be  found  a  great  enlivener  of  youthful  intellects.  It  should  be  a 
nicely  furnished  room  ;  the  apartment  in  which  early  tastes  and  disposi- 
tions, as  well  as  intellects,  are  cultivated,  should  not  be  dull,  cheerless, 
ugly  and  depressing.     Where  expense  is  no  object,  good  pictures  and 


24  The  Nurseries. — The  Bedrooms. 

thoroughly  well-furnished  bookshelves  will  be  found  great  adjuncts  to 
education  ;  a  terrestrial  and  celestial  globe,  an  easel  or  two  as  required,  a 
really  good  piano,  a  library-table  with  drawers,  two  inkstands  and  other 
writing  materials,  slates,  a  small  round  work-table,  one  easy-chair  or  a 
sofa,  and  light  cane-bottomed  chairs  for  the  elder  pupils,  high-backed 
chairs  and  low  chairs  for  the  little  ones  are  required.  Under  the  book- 
shelves should  be  cupboards  to  hold  slates,  copy  and  exercise  books,  and 
drawing  materials  ;  on  a  stand  a  portfolio  for  drawings.  Atlases  must  be 
provided,  and  a  Canterbury  for  music. 

THE   NURSERIES. 

The  Nurseiy  should  face  either  south  or  east.  It  is  cruel  to  condemn 
infants  to  north  rooms,  or  underground  rooms  ;  both  are  unhealthy  abodes 
for  them.  Let  the  mother  remember  that  the  future  health  of  her  offspring 
depends  greatly  on  the  admission  of  air  and  light  to  their  apartments. 
Nursery  walls  should  be  painted  and  varnished,  that  they  may  be  easily 
and  often  washed  down.  The  floor  is  best  covered  with  a  carpet  which 
may  be  taken  up  daily  in  winter  ;  in  summer  it  is  better  to  have  no  carpet, 
but  a  few  soft  sheep's-wool  mats  on  the  floor.  No  curtains  should  be 
allowed  in  summer  ;  the  room  should  be  made  to  look  very  pretty,  with 
coloured  prints  on  the  walls  of  pleasant  and  cheerful  subjects — appropriate 
emblazoned  texts  will  also  charm  the  little  people.  Their  tastes  may  be 
judiciously  cultivated  even  in  infancy.  Low  chairs  and  tables  as  well  as 
high  ones,  a  closet  for  toys,  and  a  shelf  for  books  are  required. 

The  night  Nursery  should  be  well  ventilated,  without  bed-curtains  or 
window-curtains  ;  strips  of  carpet  by  the  beds  only,  and  not  too  many 
persons  in  the  room.  There  should  be  high  fenders  and  fire-guards  in 
both  rooms,  and  an  Etna  should  be  provided  for  the  night  nursery,  and  a 
large  clothes-horse  for  airing  clothes. 

THE   BEDROOMS. 

A  lady's  bedroom  (where  money  can  be  commanded)  may  be  a  very 
charming  retreat.  Bedsteads  of  great  elegance  may  be  purchased,  and 
should  if  possible  stand  back  in  an  alcove.  We  have  seen  them  of  carved 
ivory,  dating  from  Queen  Elizabeth's  days  :  of  carved  oak,  of  polished 
mahogany,  of  very  pretty  manufactured  brass.  One  very  splendid  bed- 
stead, of  Louis  XIVVs  time,  we  have  seen,  the  centre  of  the  top  of  which 
was  lined  with  looking-glass,  surrounded  by  a  painted  ivory  frame  of 
great  beauty ;  fluted  blue  satin  sloped  from  it  to  the  sides,  and  from 
thence  fell  blue  satin  curtains  trimmed  with  lace.  It  was  a  couch  fit  for  a 
princess. 

The  bedstead  of  modern  days  is  less  splendid  but  far  more  healthy, 
for  curtains  are  very  generally  eschewed  by  the  wealthy  class  of  our  day, 
and  the  light  but  elegant  brass  bedstead  is  wisely  preferred.  The  pillows 
are  edged  with  lace,  the  coverlet  an  embroidered  or  Marcella  quilt,  on  it 
a  coloured  silk  duvet.  On  the  pillows  an  embroidered  case,  lined  with 
same  colour,  for  the  night-dress. 

Bedroom  carpets  should  not  be  fixed  to  the  floor,  a  margin  of  polished 
wood  may  be  left  round  the  room,  so  that  the  carpet  may  be  taken  up 
and  beaten  frequently.     It  should  not  be  of  a  large  bright  pattern  :  a  soft 


The  Bedrooms ',  etc. — Housekeeper's  Room.  2  $ 

moss  carpet,  or  some  general  tint  of  great  delicacy,  is  best.  By  the  side 
of  the  bed  should  be  a  deep  white-wool  flossy-looking  mat  for  stepping  on 
when  the  lady  gets  up.  A  similar  rug  before  the  fire  in  winter,  and  a  small 
one  before  the  toilette-table,  are  also  desirable.  Near  the  washing-stand 
should  be  spread;a  large  square  of  thick  soft  flannel,  nicely  bound,  for  the 
bath  to  stand  on.  The  toilette  service  should  match  the  washing-stand 
china,  and  both  should  harmonize  with  the  carpet  and  walls.  In  some 
houses  you  will  see  lace  curtains  fastened  with  a  crescent  to  the  ceiling 
above  the  toilette-table,  and  floating  down  on  each  side  of  it.  These  are 
used  in  old  families.  In  former  days,  at  least  about  a  hundred  years  ago, 
it  was  usual  when  a  death  took  place  in  the  family  to  draw  these  curtains 
over  the  looking-glasses  and  mirrors.  In  the  present  day  they  can  be 
drawn  to  shelter  the  toilette-table  from  dust,  but  their  chief  use  is  adorn- 
ment, to  which  they  add  greatly.  A  screen  round  the  washing-stand  is 
comfortable  and  may  also  be  made  very  ornamental.  A  cheval  glass, 
easy-chairs,  a  sofa,  a  table  for  writing,  etc.,  are  necessary.  On  the  latter 
should  be  placed  in  every  bedroom  an  inkstand,  pens,  blotting-paper 
case,  and  taper.     In  many  houses  a  Bible  stands  beside  them. 

The  curtains  of  the  bedroom  should  be  chintz,  we  think,  both  as  being 
more  lively  to  the  eye  and  capable  of  cleaning  more  perfectly  than  satin 
or  damask.  The  new  material,  Cretonne,  is  also  well  suited  to  the  purpose. 
A  bookcase,  fixed  to  the  wall  or  standing  near  it,  should  contain  favourite 
books.  Pictures  in  bedchambers  are  generally  of  a  religious  character, 
and  wall  texts  are  especially  suitable  as  well  as  ornamental.  One  general 
rule  may  close  our  hints  on  a  handsome  chamber  :  let  everything  in  it  tend 
to  soothe  and  cheer  the  inmate,  and  make  it  a  retreat  from  the  noise  and 
hurry  of  daily  life. 

The  Gentlemen's  Dressing-rooms  should  have  the  same  carpet  and 
curtains  as  the  adjoining  bedroom  ;  easy-chair  and  couch  of  the  same 
chintz  as  the  bedroom  furniture  ;  the  dressing-table  must  not  be  a  toilette  ; 
there  must  be  a  good-sized  marble  washing-stand,  a  bath,  boot-jack,  etc. ; 


HOUSEKEEPER'S  AND  LADY'S-MAID'S  ROOMS. 

The  Housekeeper's  Room  should  be  neatly  but  plainly  furnished,  and 
should  contain  large  closets,  or  cupboards,  for  her  use  ;  writing  materials, 
a  slate-book  and  pencil  for  the  dinner  carte,  and  as  the  individual  is  often 
alone,  it  is  usual  to  put  a  modest  sofa  or  leather  easy-chair  in  her  room. 

The  Lady's-maid's  Room  should  have  a  long,  large  deal  table  in  it  for 
cutting  out ;  a  dummy  figure,  or  at  least  a  head  for  fitting  trimmings  and 
bonnet  making,  two  flat-irons  for  pressing  dresses,  etc. ;  an  Italian  and 
gauffering  irons,  soft  and  hard  clothes  brushes,  and  a  sewing  machine. 
In  many  large  houses  a  room  is  set  apart  for  the  needlework  of  the  family  ; 
when  this  is  the  case  the  lady's-maid's  room  is  simply  furnished  as  any 
other  bedroom  of  modest  pretensions,  and  the  table,  machine,  irons,  etc., 
are  transferred  to  the  workroom. 


26 


SERVANTS'  HALL  AND  SERVANTS'  BEDROOMS. 

The  Servants'  Hall  has  a  long,  large  oak  or  deal  dining-table,  and 
forms  or  benches  for  sitting  at  it. 

In  many  large  houses  the  servants'  bedrooms  are  a  disgrace  to  the 
dwelling;  while  amongst  the  middle  classes  very  tidy  rooms  are  provided  for 
the  domestics.  We  have  seen  servants'  chambers  in  great  mansions  which 
were  void  of  nearly  every  comfort.  Why  should  not  servants  have  neat 
and  even  pretty  rooms  ?  It  would  be  one  means  of  civilizing  them  and 
improving  their  tastes  ;  and  surely  they  require  baths  even  more  than 
their  mistresses  do.  We  wish  we  could  see  a  bath  in  every  servant's  room, 
a  toilette-cover  on  her  table,  a  good  text  enlivening  her  wall  with  gay 
colours  and  wholesome  counsel,  and  a  glass  of  flowers,  or  any  other  cheap 
adornment.  If  female  servants  are  encouraged  to  try  and  make  their 
bedrooms  pretty,  they  will  take  a  pride  in  them  and  acquire  habits  and 
tastes  which  may  ultimately  improve  the  home  of  the  working  man.  In 
addition  to  neat  ordinary  furniture,  we  would  give,  in  the  rich  man's  home, 
a  hip-bath,  a  few  bookshelves  and  books  on  them,  a  table  and  inkstand, 
and  a  flower-glass  or  two. 

"I  must  say  a  word,"  observes  Miss  Nightingale,  "about  servants' 
bedrooms.  From  the  way  they  are  built,  but  oftener  from  the  way 
they  are  kept,  and  from  no  intelligent  inspection  whatever  being 
exercised  over  them,  they  are  almost  invariably  dens  of  foul  air,  and 
the  'servants'  health '  suffers  in  an  'unaccountable'  (?)  way,  even  in 
the  country.  For  I  am  by  no  means  speaking  only  of  London  houses, 
where  too  often  servants  are  put  to  live  under  the  ground  and  over 
the  roof.  But  in  a  country  '  mansion}  which  was  really  a  '  mansion  '  (not 
after  the  fashion  of  advertisements),  I  have  known  three  maids  who  slept 
in  the  same  room  ill  of  scarlet  fever.  '  How  catching  it  is,'  was  of  course 
the  remark.  One  look  at  the  room,  one  smell  of  the  room,  was  quite 
enough.     It  was  no  longer  '  unaccountable.'" 

WOODS   USED   IN   FURNISHING. 

The  woods  used  in  furnishing  are — deal,  mahogany,  rosewood,  walnut, 
birch,  maple,  beech,  white  and  yellow  pine,  satin-wood,  cedar;  and  oak. 
lime,  and  pear,  which  are  used  for  carving.  Of  these  woods,  deal  is  the 
cheapest  and  rosewood  the  dearest. 

For  bedroom  furniture,  japanned  (or  painted)  deal  is  quite  good 
enough.  It  is  much  cheaper  than  mahogany  or  birch,  and  looks  fresher 
than  birch  after  a  lapse  of  years,  if  it  is  taken  care  of  and  kept  clean. 

For  people  who  can  afford  it,  an  inferior  kind  of  walnut-wood  is  very- 
nice  in  bedrooms.  But  good  mahogany,  if  it  is  not  too  expensive,  is 
the  best  investment,  for  (with  care)  time  improves  it,  and  it  will  always,  if 
sold,  bring  nearly  its  original  price.  Deal  is  used  for  the  tables  in 
kitchens,  etc. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  mahogany — Spanish  and  Honduras.  Spanish 
is  the  best ;  it  is  darker  in  hue,  and  the  grain  has  a  curl  or  wave  in  it 
which  is  considered  a  beauty,  and  regulates  its  price.  It  has  a  fine  close 
texture,  is  very  hard  and  strong,  and  does  not  break  easily,  nor  does  it 


Woods  used  in  Furnishing.  27 

warp  or  twist.  The  weight  of  mahogany  is  the  best  test  of  its  value,  the 
heaviest  being,  in  general,  the  best.  Sometimes  mahogany  is  veneered 
over  cedar  or  pine — that  is,  thin  slices  of  the  more  valuable  wood  are  glued 
on  to  other  wood  of  less  value.  The  Honduras  mahogany  has  a  coarse, 
loose,  and  straight  grain  and  is  not  so  valuable.  Tricks  are  practised 
occasionally,  by  which  Honduras  mahogany  is  made  to  look  the  colour  of 
Spanish.  It  is  stained  to  the  colour  before  it  is  polished.  The  same 
deceit  is  practised  on  birch,  which  is  thus  made  to  take  the  appearance  of 
mahogany.  The  young  housekeeper,  to  avoid  being  thus  imposed  on, 
should  deal  with  a  first-rate  firm  incapable  of  dishonesty.  Buying  cheap 
and  showy  furniture  is  a  great  mistake,  as  it  never  lasts,  and  costs  more 
in  the  end  for  repairs,  or  replacement,  than  good  articles  would  cost  at  first. 

Rosewood  is  a  dark  hard  wood,  with  a  slight  curl  or  wave  in  the  grain. 
It  is  most  used  in  veneers,  but  the  solid  wood  is  sometimes  used. 

Walnut,  at  the  present  time,  rivals  rosewood  in  use  for  drawing-room 
furniture.  It  is  a  very  lovely  wood,  very  close  grained,  compact  and  hard, 
and  it  takes  a  very  high  polish. 

Birch  is  an  American  wood,  of  a  pale  yellowish  brown,  which,  when 
polished,  has  a  silky  lustre  that  is  very  pleasing.  By  staining,  it  can  be 
made  to  resemble  Honduras  mahogany,  as  we  have  said.  It  is  much 
cheaper  than  rosewood  or  mahogany,  and  makes  pretty  chairs,  etc. 

Maple,  also  an  American  wood,  somewhat  resembles  satinwood,  but  it 
is  much  darker,  and  the  grain  has  more  curl.  It  has  knobs  in  it  called 
birds'  eye.  It  is  used  very  much  for  picture-frames,  and  is  not  very 
common  in  furniture,  but  the  writer  possesses  a  remarkably  handsome 
chest  of  drawers  of  maple. 

Beech  is  a  close  tough  wood,  much  used  for  the  framework  of  chairs, 
bedsteads,  and  tables.  It  is  rather  paler  than  birch,  and  may  be  known 
by  its  having  on  it  little  specks  of  darker  brown. 

White  and  yellow  pine  are  much  used  at  present,  japanned  or  painted, 
for  bedroom  suites,  and  look  very  nice,  but  the  stain  is  apt  to  fade,  and  if 
the  wood  has  not  been  very  well  seasoned,  the  furniture  is  apt  to  crack 
and  fall  to  pieces.     We  think  honest  deal  japanned,  far  preferable  to  pine. 

Satin-wood  is  very  beautiful  for  small  fancy  tables,  cabinets,  etc.  etc., 
or  inlaying.  It  was  once  fashionable  in  furniture,  and  still  (we  think) 
gives  an  air  of  distinction  to  a  room,  as  its  use  is  not  quite  of  to-day. 

Cedar  is  of  a  dark  colour,  resembling  pale  mahogany,  and  has  a  sweet 
aromatic  smell.  Chests  of  drawers  made  of  it,  and  veneered  with  maho- 
gany, are  very  nice,  as  cedar  keeps  away  moths. 

Oak  is  either  British  or  foreign  ;  the  latter  is  known  by  the  name  of 
wainscot,  and  is  used  for  kitchen  tables  in  great  houses.  British  oak  is 
darker  in  colour  than  wainscot.  Oak  is  used  for  carved  furniture  of  the 
best  and  most  expensive  description. 

Lime  is  seldom  used  except  for  carving. 

Pear  resembles  pine. 

Cane  is  split,  and  makes  chair-bottoms  for  bedrooms. 

Veneered  articles  of  furniture  are  cheaper,  and  often  lighter  to  move 
than  those  made  of  solid  wood.  By  looking  underneath  a  table,  the  pur- 
chaser can  see  if  it  is  veneered  or  solid.  Veneered  goods  are  often  pre- 
ferable to  solid,  not  only  because  they  are  cheaper,  but  because  there  is 
less  risk  of  their  splitting  or  warping. 


;8  Cheap  Furnish  hi, 


The  purchaser  of  veneered  goods  should  catch  the  light  upon  them  so 
as  to  see  if  the  surface  is  perfectly  flat.  If  it  is  not  so,  he  should  not 
purchase  them — any  inequalities  of  surface  are  caused  by  the  veneering 
being  badly  done,  or  the  wood  underneath  not  having  been  seasoned. 

BUHL-WORK  consists  of  woods  inlaid  with  metal  (generally  lacquered 
or  gilt  brass),  or  with  ivory,  tortoiseshell,  etc.  etc. 

Marquetry  resembles  mosaic  work,  or  Tunbridge-work — i.e.  a  pattern 
is  formed  by  blocks  of  coloured  wood  being  joined  together.  Marquetry 
is  not  so  minute  as  mosaic  work. 

Parquetry  is  a  coarse  kind  of  buhl- work  used  for  floors. 

Almost  all  articles  of  modern  wood  furniture  are  French  polished — 
dining-tables  are  sometimes  excepted  on  account  of  hot  plates,  etc.  marking 
the  surface. 

CHEAP   FURNISHING. 

We  have  now  to  consider  how  taste  may  be  blended  with  economy. 

Of  course,  the  same  laws  respecting  harmony  of  colour  belong  to  the 
rich  and  poor  alike.  Say  you  have  hired  an  ordinary  London  house. 
Manage  to  get  permission  to  choose  the  papers  yourself,  and  get  for  ail  as 
soft  and  light  a  tint  as  the  means  placed  at  your  disposal  will  admit ;  but 
recollect  that  varnished  papers  are  cheapest  in  the  end,  as  they  will  clean 
like  new  with  bread.     If  possible,  have  the  dining-room  painted. 

Panelling  and  imitation  wainscoting  diminishes  the  size  of  a  room, 
and  consequently  is  to  be  eschewed  for  small  rooms.  If  you  have 
furniture,  endeavour  to  harmonize  the  colour  of  the  wall  with  it,  and  with 
your  curtains. 

The  white  and  gold  drawing-room  papers  are  not  very  expensive  ;  for 
about  So1,  or  6d.  a  yard  a  tolerably  good  one  can  be  obtained. 

A  drawing-room  suite  mounted  with  green  rep  can  be  obtained  for 
10/.  10s.  at  most  of  the  upholsterers,  and  is  worth  the  money,  as  when  the 
seat  stuffings  sink,  they  may  be  re-stuffed  by  the  notable  housewife  herself. 

The  tapestry  carpets  are  very  pretty,  and  will  with  care  last  many 
years,  though  not  so  long  as  the  Brussels  ;  as,  however,  they  last  very 
fairly  with  care,  they  can  really  be  recommended.  The  moss  patterns  are 
very  suitable  to  small  rooms,  and  have  a  charming  effect ;— - these  carpets  are 
about  is.  M.  per  yard  ;  hearth-rugs  to  match,  17s.  6d.  In  laying  them,  the 
floor  should  first  be  covered  with  the  coarse  brown  paper  used  for  the 
purpose  ;  it  not  only  protects  the  carpet,  but  gives  a  very  thick  feeling  to 
it  when  trodden  on.  The  suite  of  furniture  will  contain  a  sofa,  2  easy- 
chairs  and  6  ordinary  chairs.  A  loo-table  may  be  had  cheaply  if  the  top  is 
made  of  deal  (which  can  be  covered  with  the  cloth)  but  care  must  be  taken 
not  to  get  a  badly  seasoned  wood,  however  cheap,  as  in  time  it  will  open 
across.  A  second-hand  loo  table  is  to  be  preferred  if  it  can  be  bought, 
and  chintz  curtains,  with  lace  curtains  under  them,  are  prettiest  for  a 
drawing-room.  A  piano,  a  few  vases  of  flowers,  nicely  arranged, 
a  good  clock,  a  chess-table,  a  Davenport,  a  work-table,  will  be  found 
ornaments  enough,  and  we  may  suggest  a  book-stand  on  the  table, 
with  some  choice  authors,  and  a  few  ornaments  on  the  mantelpiece. 
These  few  simple  articles  will  furnish  a  comfortable  room,  if  it  be  light 
and  well  ventilated  and  occupied.    But  it  would  appear  poor  and  shabby 


Cheap  Furnishing*  29 


if  it  is  kept  dark,  dusty,  or  too  tidy.  Above  all,  we  protest  against  the 
formal  row  of  books  crossed  over  each  other  on  the  table,  the  shell  baskets, 
etc.  etc.,  which  disfigure  instead  of  ornamenting  a  room.  Books  which  are 
readable  are  a  great,  almost  indispensable  addition  to  a  lady's  drawing- 
room,  but  not  the  collections  of  poems  and  old-fashioned  hereditary 
volumes  which  figure  on  the  loo-table  solely  on  account  of  their  binding  ; 
nor  the  trashy  novels  thrown  about  it.  Taste  can  be  shown  inform  also. 
Prettily  shaped  vases  ;  the  disposal  of  the  furniture  about  the  room,  even 
the  fall  of  the  curtains,  will  show  this  precious  gift,  and  alter  the  whole 
appearance  of  the  apartment  Above  all,  perfect  cleanliness  and  fresh- 
ness, pure  air  admitted,  and  plenty  of  light  when  possible,  give  a  great 
charm  to  a  room.  In  winter,  the  fireplace  should  always  be  bright  and 
well-swept ;  in  summer  it  should  be  filled  with  shavings,  or  some  graceful 
white  ornament,  with  a  few  coloured  flowers  on  it.  A  small  bundle  of 
the  threads  of  tarletane  pulled  out,  have  a  very  light  and  vapoury  ap- 
pearance. Living  fern  leaves,  or  good  bunches  of  lilac,  are  charming  in 
the  country  fireplace.     Brackets  on  the  wall  are  cheap  and  pretty. 

The  dining-room  requires  a  stronger  carpet  than  the  drawing-room, 
being  in  moderate  houses  more  used,  as  the  housekeeper  of  small  means 
generally  avoids  the  expense  of  a  double  fire,  by  sitting  in  it  till  after 
luncheon  or  early  dinner  ;  also  the  feet  of  the  servants  waiting  at  table 
wear  the  dining-room  carpet.  It  should  be  a  strong  Brussels,  harmonizing 
in  colour  with  the  paper  and  furniture.  The  mantelpiece  does  not  abso- 
lutely require  ornaments,  though  a  marble  clock,  bronze  (or  imitation  bronze) 
candlesticks,  the  same  material  for  spill  stands,  look  comfortable.  The 
dining-table  should  be  a  telescope  one  of  mahogany,  not  French  polished, 
because  hot  dishes  leave  marks  on  the  varnish.  It  should  be  polished  with 
oil  and  hard  rubbing.  The  whole  furniture  should  be  mahogany,  but  the 
chairs  should  not  have  horsehair  cushions  ;  no  room  can  look  nice  with  them, 
nor  with  a  horsehair  couch.  They  should  be  mounted  in  leather,  or  at 
least  American  cloth,  but  the  latter  soon  wears  out.  An  American  chair, 
a  leather  easy-chair,  a  sideboard,  or  a  waggon  (if  the  former  be  too  ex- 
pensive), and  a  writing-table  in  the  window  if  it  be  a  bow-window,  will 
furnish  this  room  moderately  well.  When  there  is  no  library,  the  book- 
shelves are  generally  on  each  side  of  the  dining-room  fireplace. 

The  hall  does  not  require  more  than  an  umbrella-stand,  pegs  for  hats, 
etc.,  a  chair,  and  a  small  hall-table.  Floorcloth  should  be  strong,  and 
should  harmonize  with  the  walls  in  colour.  A  weather-glass  is  useful 
in  the  hall. 

In  the  bedrooms  much  reduction  in  expense  may  be  achieved  by  a 
little  ingenuity.  The  room  need  not  be  carpeted  all  over.  A  piece  of 
Kidderminster  in  the  centre  of  the  room  suffices,  and  is  healthier,  for  it 
can  be  shaken  every  week  ;  the  boards  round,  which  are  apt  in  London  to 
be  discoloured,  may  be  stained  oak  colour  and  varnished,  when  they  will 
dust  and  wipe  easily.  No  carpet  should  be  under  the  bed,  nor  should 
there  be  a  valance — only  the  oak-stained  floor.  The  curtains  should  be 
pure  white  dimity — the  prettiest  and  cleanest-looking  of  all,  or,  if  cretonne 
could  be  afforded,  they  would  be  pretty,  but  they  are  very  expensive,  as 
they  do  not  wash  well.  Two  chairs,  a  washing-stand  and  bath,  a  piece  of 
bound  flannel  for  the  bath  to  stand  on,  and  a  chest  of  drawers,  are  indis- 
pensable ;  a  deal  toilette  table,  with  a  ledge  for  holding  boots  and  shoes 


30  Pincushions  for  the  Toilet,  etc. 


underneath  it,  is  good  enough.  It  is  covered  with  a  lined  book-muslin 
toilette.  Some  old-fashioned  families  cover  the  back  of  the  looking-glass 
with  muslin,  and  draw  it  in  with  bows  of  ribbon  at  the  hinges.  This  has 
a  pretty  effect,  only  the  edge  (of  lace)  showing  in  front.  In  cases  where 
the  bedroom  is  very  small,  the  toilette  table  may  be  utilized,  by  having 
shelves  under  it  (enclosed  with  sides  and  a  door)  for  dresses.  The  toilette 
muslin  being  made  to  open  in  the  same  place  as  the  doors — i.e.,  in  the 
middle  of  the  front — will  throw  back  and  allow  the  doors  to  open  easily. 
The  dresses  can  be  laid  at  full  length  in  it. 

All  bedrooms  require  the  same  furniture,  more  or  less.  It  should  all  be 
of  the  same  kind  of  wood,  whether  mahogany,  walnut,  or  painted  deal,  as 
harmony  of  colour  is  required  to  make  the  room  look  well. 

Cheap  bedroom  bookshelves  may  be  made  thus  :  Cut  a  plank  of 
about  three  or  four  feet  in  halves.  The  plank  should  be  a  good  inch 
thick ;  plane  the  halves  and  paint  them,  also  the  edges  ;  take  four  and 
a  half  yards  of  red  or  green  cord  ;  divide  it  in  halves.  Take  the  shelves, 
make  four  holes  in  them,  one  in  each  corner,  exactly  over  each  other  in 
each  shelf.  Put  one  of  the  halves  of  cord  through  the  front  hole  of  the 
bottom  shelf  on  the  right  side,  tie  a  knot  in  the  end  to  keep  it  from  slipping 
through — a  good  large  knot  for  the  shelf  to  rest  on  ;  leave  a  piece  of  cord 
above  the  hole  through  which  it  is  passed,  the  height  of  your  highest  book  ; 
tie  another  knot,  pass  the  cord  through  the  front  hole  at  the  righthand  of 
the  other  shelf ;  then  put  it  through  the  front  le/thand  side  of  the  second 
shelf,  and  tie  a  knot,  then  pass  it  through  the  front  lefthand  hole  of  the 
bottom  shelf  and  tie  a  knot ;  cut  off ;  be  careful  that  both  sides  are 
exactly  the  same  height  before  you  cut  off  the  cord  or  tie  the  knots  ;  it 
requires  careful  management.  Next  pass  a  cord  through  the  back  right- 
hand  hole,  tie  a  knot  below  ;  measure  the  same  length,  or  height  rather,  as 
front  cord,  tie  a  knot,  pass  the  cord  through  back  righthand  hole  of 
second  shelf;  carry  it  over  to  back  lefthand  corner  ;  pass  it  through  hole, 
tie  a  knot  (after  measuring  with  front  cords),  pass  it  through  bottom  left- 
hand  hole  and  fasten  with  knot.  Take  care  that  the  measurement  of  the 
cord  is  exact,  or  the  shelves  will  hang  crookedly.  Then  drive  one  large 
brass-headed  nail  into  a  firm  part  of  the  wall  (a  joist  is  the  place),  twist 
the  cords  together  at  the  top,  and  hang  up  the  shelves  ;  or  put  in  two  nails, 
and  stretch  the  cord  over  both,  if  you  wish  for  more  room  for  your  books. 
A  prettily  made  toilette  pincushion,  a  glass  or  vase  of  flowers,  will  greatly 
enliven  a  chamber.  We  give  two  receipts  for  toilette  pincushions  :— 
No.  I. — Make  a  round  pincushion,  with  a  hollow  in  the  middle  of  it 
large  enough  to  hold  a  small  tumbler.  Paste  a  firm 
piece  of  cardboard  at  the  bottom  of  it.  Then  make  a 
cover  of  muslin  over  pink  silk,  leaving  a  hole  just 
over  the  hollow  in  the  middle  of  the  pincushion  for 
a  tiny  glass,  which  you  must  buy  to  fit  it,  and  which, 
when  the  pincushion  is  on  the  toilette  table,  must 
be  filled  with  a  bouquet  of  delicate  flowers.  A  lace 
frill  should  be  sewn  round  the  edge  of  the  pincushion, 
to  hang  to  the  bottom  of  it. 

No.  2. — A  small  square  deal  box,  lined  with  pink  silk,  and  covered 
externally  with  the  same.  The  inside  lining  should  be  quilted  on  flannel ; 
the  outside  covered  first  with  muslin,  and  then  with  a  deep  lace  friL'. 


Home-made  Chsets  and  Cupboards.  31 

Make  a  pincushion  on  the  lid,  cover  it  with  pink  silk  and  spotted  muslin, 
and  edge  it  all  round  with  pink  silk  ribbon  rucheing. 

A  few  good  engravings,  if  possible,  may  be  hung  up  on  the  bedroom 
walls.  Short  muslin  blinds  are  required  for  the  windows  ;  and  against  the 
wall  behind  the  washstand,  it  is  well  to  fix  a  piece  of  spotted  muslin, 
hemmed  round  with  a  broad  hem,  in  which  a  coloured  ribbon  is  run, 
to  guard  the  wall  paper  from  splashes. 

Old  boxes  may  be  utilized  and  made  into  seats,  by  covering  them  with 
cheap  chintz  ;  the  top  made  plain  ;  a  frill  the  depth  of  the  box  down  the 
sides.  The  top  cover  should  not  be  joined  to  the  side  frills,  in  order  not 
to  rumple  them  when  the  box  is  opened.  It  is  sometimes  well  to  stuff  a 
cushion  with  chaff  for  the  top,  and  to  nail  it  on  by  the  tape  which  binds  it ; 
the  chintz  cover  goes  over  it,  and  the  side  frills  are  put  on  as  when  the  box  is 
covered  without  a  cushion.  But  the  cushion  prevents  it  from  being  used 
for  travelling  purposes  without  some  trouble  in  uncovering  it.  The 
loose,  unstuffed  cover  is  easily  lifted  off  when  the  box  is  required  else- 
where, or  the  chintz  requires  washing.  A  long  trunk  thus  stuffed  at  the 
top  and  covered  at  the  sides,  makes  a  nice  seat  at  the  foot  of  the  bed,  and 
is  very  convenient  tor  putting  away  dresses  at  full  length.  Smaller  boxes 
do  for  keeping  bonnets  or  any  other  garments  in.  It  is  astonishing  how  a 
little  ingenuity  will  help  to  beautify  a  room  and  make  it  comfortable. 

For  persons  who  cannot  afford  a  toilette  service,  a  nice  box  pincushion 
may  be  made  from  an  old  cigar-box,  to  be  purchased  for  threepence  at  any 
tobacconist's.  It  should  be  lined  with  glazed  pink  calico,  a  pincushion 
stuffed  and  fastened  on  the  top,  edged  with  lace  or  quilted  ribbon.  The 
sides  must  be  first  covered  with  pink  calico  and  then  with  muslin  frills 
edged  with  lace,  or  hung  with  lace  frills  the  depth  of  the  box,  fastened  to 
the  edges  of  the  sides.  The  china  pots  in  which  potted-meat  is  sold  will 
also  help  to  furnish  cheaply  the  lady's  toilette-table. 

One  great  defect  of  modern  houses  is  the  want  of  closets  and  cup- 
boards. Ingenuity  and  industry  can,  however,  often  supply  this  deficiency. 
A  good  closet  for  hanging  dresses  may  be  made  in  a  bedroom  recess,  by 
merely  putting  a  shelf  of  deal  a  little  way  from  the  ceiling,  and  a  thin  slip 
of  the  same  across  the  recess  at  the  bottom  ;  along  the  edge  of  the  shelf 
fix  a  strong  red  cord,  by  a  brass-headed  nail  at  each  end.  Do  the  same 
at  the  bottom  edge.  Then  take  some  cheap  chintz,  or  cretonne,  or  dimity  ; 
hem  it  top  and  bottom,  and  put  on  small  rings.  Pass  these  through 
the  cords,  and  the  curtains  will  draw  backwards  and  forwards  quite 
easily  ;  if  they  set  in  slight  flutes  so  much  the  better,  the  housewife  will  thus 
have  a  pretty-looking  wardrobe  at  little  cost.  Next  as  to  cupboards.  Nearly 
everybody  possesses  some  old  boxes,  or  packing-cases  ;  place  one  on  its 
side,  with  its  open  top  towards  you  ;  another  on  it,  and  another  on  that  if 
possible.  They  should  stand  by  a  wall  on  the  landing-place  of  the  stair- 
case or  in  any  convenient  corner,  and  be  fixed  to  the  wall  thus  ;  hammer 
into  the  wall  two  strong  nails  on  each  side  about  the  middle  of  each  box. 
Make  a  hole  large  enough  for  a  cord  or  rope  to  go  through  in  the  sides 
of  each  of  them,  and  thus  tie  them  securely  to  the  wall.  The  expense  of 
making  the  lids  into  a  door  will  not  be  great ;  a  hinge  on  each  box  and  a 
strong  lock  also  will  be  necessary.  Cover  them  with  one  of  those  hall 
papers,  which  are  excellent  imitations  of  wood,  and  you  will  have  a  good 
closet,  which  if  you  leave  the  house  can  be  re-converted  into  packing-cases. 


32  Bedsteads,  Beds,  etc. 


Whilst  we  are  on  the  subject  of  bedrooms,  we  feel  inclined  to  complete 
our  subject  by  an  extract  from  one  of  Leigh  Hunt's  charming  essays  :— 
"  Order  in  a  house/'  he  says,  "  first  manifests  itself  in  the  room  which  the 
housewife  inhabits,  and  every  sentiment  of  the  heart,  as  well  as  of  the 
external  graces,  demands  that  a  very  reverence  and  religion  of  neatness 
should  be  there  exhibited  ;  not  formality,  not  a  want  of  snugness,  but  all 
which  evidences  that  the  esteem  of  a  life  is  preferred  to  the  slatternliness  of 
the  moment 

"  Commend  us  (for  a  climate  like  ours)  to  a  bedchamber  of  the  middle 
order,  such  as  it  was  set  out  about  a  hundred  years  back,  and  may  still 
be  seen  in  the  houses  of  some  old  families,  the  room  of  moderate  size,  the 
fourpost-bed  neatly  and  plentifully  but  not  richly  draperied  ;  the  chairs 
draperied  also,  down  to  the  ground ;  a  drapery  over  the  toilette ;  the 
carpet  a  good  old  Turkey  or  Brussels,  not  covering  the  floor  and  easily  to 
be  taken  up  and  shaken  ;  the  wardrobe  and  drawers  of  old  shining  oak, 
walnut,  or  mahogany  ;  a  few  cabinet  pictures,  as  elegant  as  you  please  ; 
the  windows  with  seats,  and  looking  upon  some  green  place ;  two  or  three 
small  shelves  of  books  ;  and  the  drawers,  when  they  are  open,  redolent  of 
lavender  and  clean  linen.  We  dislike  the  cut-and-dried  look  of  modern 
fashions  ;  the  cane  chairs,  formal-patterned  carpets,  and  flimsy  rooms  ; 
modern  times  (or  till  very  lately  they  were  so)  are  all  for  lightness  and 
cheap  sufficiency,  and  what  is  considered  a  Grecian  elegance ;  they 
realize  only  an  insipid  or  gaudy  anatomy  of  things,  a  cold  pretension,  and 
houses  that  will  tumble  upon  the  heads  of  our  grandchildren.  But  these 
matters,  like  others,  are  gradually  improving.  If  our  bedroom  is  to  be 
perfect  it  should  face  the  east,  to  rouse  us  pleasantly  with  the  morning 
sun  ;  and  in  case  we  should  be  tempted  to  lie  too  long  in  so  sweet  a  nest, 
there  should  be  a  happy  family  of  birds  at  the  windows  to  salute  our  rise 
with  songs."* 

Here  is  another  charming  picture  by  the  hand  of  a  great  novelist : — 
u  The  room  in  which  I  found  myself  was  one  of  those  never  seen  out  of 
England,  and  only  there  in  unpretending  country  houses  which  have 
escaped  the  innovating  tastes  of  fashion.  A  bedstead  of  the  time  of 
George  I.,  with  mahogany-fluted  columns  and  panels  at  the  bedhead,  dark 
and  polished,  decorated  by  huge  watch-pockets  of  some  great-grand- 
mother's embroidery,  white  spotless  curtains,  the  walls  in  panel,  and 
covered  in  part  with  framed  engravings  a  century  old,  a  large  high  screen 
separating  the  washstand  from  the  rest  of  the  room,  made  lively  by  old 
caricatures  and  prints,  doubtless  the  handiwork  of  female  hands  long 
stilled  A  sweet,  not  strong,  odour  of  dried  lavender  escaped  from  a  chest 
of  drawers  polished  as  bright  as  the  bedstead.  The  small  lattice-paned 
window  opened  to  the  fresh  air,  the  woodbine  framing  it  all  round  from 
without ;  amongst  the  woodbine  the  low  hum  of  bees.  A  room  for  early 
sleep  and  cheerful  rising  with  the  eastern  sun,  which  the  window  faced/'t 

We  venture  to  suggest  to  inmates  of  small  houses  the  idea  of  the  high 
screen,  as  a  substitute  for  a  dressing-room,  Such  a  screen  would  not  be 
expensive  ;  a  common  drying  clothes-horse  would  suffice,  with  canvas  or 


'Men,  Women,  and  Books,"  vol.  i.  pp.  120,  121, 
f  Lord  Lyiton's  "  Caxtoniana,"  vol.  ii.  p.  94. 


Cheap  Furniture.  $$ 


any  cotton  cloth  strained  over  it.  Pictures  should  then  be  pasted  or 
gummed  all  over  it,  and  a  cheap  varnish  passed  over  all.  It  is  indeed  to 
be  wished  that  this  forgotten  decency  could  be  restored  to  our  homes. 
Making  a  screen,  too,  would  be  an  excellent  household  amusement  in 
which  all  might  join. 

We  must  now  say  a  few  words  about  bedsteads,  beds,  and  bedding. 
Iron  bedsteads  are  cheapest  upon  the  whole,  and  may  be  either  with  or 
without  furniture.  They  may  have  a  half-tester  and  curtains,  or  a  wooden 
pole  may  be  fixed  in  the  wall  and  the  curtains  may  hang  from  it.  The 
latter  makes  the  bedstead  come  cheaper,  and  looks  well,  but  the 
curtains  are  apt  to  hang  rather  close  to  the  head.  If  the  bedstead  stands 
as  French  beds  are  intended  to  do,  with  its  side  to  the  wall,  the  curtains 
make  a  tent  above  it  and  hang  over  head  and  foot,  but  they  should  be  put 
back  from  the  latter  before  sleeping,  that  the  sleeper  may  have  plenty  of 
air.  The  cheapest  curtains  are  dimity,  and  really  nothing  looks  better  if 
they  are  kept  clean  and  snowy  white ;  about  eighteen  yards  will  make  a 
pair  of  bed  curtains  for  a  three  feet  wide  bed,  with  one  breadth  and 
a  half  in  each  curtain  ;  but  two  breadths,  which  would  be  thirty-six  yards, 
would  be  much  handsomer,  and  are  required  to  cover  a  bed  five  feet  six 
inches  wide.  The  curtains  must  first  be  bound  with  braid,  and  then 
a  white  fringe  should  be  sewed  down  one  side ;  the  other  joins  behind 
the  head,  or  by  the  side  of  the  bed,  and  does  not  require  any.  This 
fringe  might  easily  be  made  by  the  housemother  herself,  or  some  of  the 
young  people,  by  knitting  in  ends  of  cotton  according  to  the  following 
receipt  : — 

"  Cast  on  eleven  stitches ;  one  plain  row ;  knit  two  ;  turn  over  the  needle 
and  knit  two  together  ;  turn,  and  knit  two  together  ;  turn,  and  knit  two 
together ;  put  the  fringe  over  the  needle  ;  knit  two  ;  turn  over  the  fringe 
and  knit  one  plain  row  back,  and  repeat." 

Or  the  curtains  may  have  a  border  sewn  on  of  scarlet  Turkey  twill,  or 
washing  cambric  of  any  other  colour,  or  they  may  have  a  coloured  fringe  ; 
but  if  the  room  be  bright  and  sunny,  pure  white  will  look  much  the  best. 
Cretonne  and  chintz  are  both  too  expensive  for  small  means.  It  looks  nice 
to  loop  back  the  curtains  in  the  daytime  to  the  bedpost,  with  either  white 
binding,  or  if  the  trimming  be  coloured,  with  ribbon  of  the  same  hue  ;  or 
if  this  is  not  liked,  the  curtains  when  they  fall  on  each  side  of  the  head  of 
the  bed,  may  be  raised  by  the  servant,  and  their  ends  laid  on  the  pillow. 
Of  course,  the  bed  and  window  curtains  must  be  alike.  Mattresses 
are  more  used  than  feather  beds  in  the  present  day,  being  thought  more 
conducive  to  health.  The  best  mattress  is  the  spring  mattress.  It 
is  made  of  a  succession  of  coils  of  stout  copper  wire,  sometimes  gal- 
vanized. These  are  set  in  a  framework  of  stout  laths,  having  one  or 
two  transverse  bars  from  head  to  foot  as  the  width  requires.  The  springs 
are  fastened  to  the  laths,  and  secured  to  strong  canvas  at  the  top,  upon 
which  is  laid  a  padding  of  wool  covered  with  the  ordinary  check  covering. 
These  mattresses  cost,  for  a  three  feet  wide  and  six  long  bedstead,  it.  js., 
and  for  one  five  feet  wide,  2/.  10s.  A  thin  woollen  mattress  is  required 
on  the  top  for  the  protection  of  the  springs.  Ordinary  woollen  mattresses 
are  softer  than  thin  horsehair  ones,  as  well  as  cheaper ;  but  a  good  thick  old- 
fashioned  hair  mattress  on  a  straw  paillasse,  or  better  still  on  a  sacking,  is 
an  excellent  bed. 

D 


34  Purchasing  Secondhand  Furniture. 

Feather  beds  are  expensive,  except  to  those  who  pick  their  own  poultry 
and  can  save  the  feathers,  which  should,  however,  be  thoroughly  well- 
baked  before  using.  A  feather  bed,  bolster,  and  pillows  cost  about  12/. 
for  a  full-sized  bed.  In  purchasing  one,  it  is  well  to  go  to  a  very  reliable 
and  respectable  shop,  as  sad  tricks  are  occasionally  played  in  the  making 
of  feather  beds.  We  remember  how  a  lady  once  in  a  ready  furnished 
house,  feeling  something  very  hard  in  her  bed,  opened  a  portion  of  the 
seam  and  found  the  whole  wing  of  a  goose  in  its  original  state,  pieces  of 
old  woollen  cloth,  etc.  Besides,  there  are  different  qualities  of  fea- 
thers. If  on  pressing  your  hand  on  the  bed  it  rises  up  again  quickly,  the 
feathers  are  fresh  and  good.  If  the  bed  does  not  rise  at  all,  they  are  old 
feathers  cleaned,  which  are  really  objectionable ;  and  here  we  must  observe 
that  feathers  hold  infection  in  a  remarkable  degree.  Many  families  keep 
scarlet  fever  as  a  perfect  inheritance  from  ignorance  of  this  fact,  and 
lodging-house  beds  by  the  seaside  often  give  fever  and  even  smallpox  to 
the  unlucky  visitors.  Nothing  will  disinfect  a  bed  except  unmaking  it, 
having  the  feathers  re-baked,  and  the  tick  washed,  with  a  little  of  Condy's 
disinfecting  fluid  or  chloride  of  lime  in  the  water.  The  cost  of  purifying 
feathers  is  $\d.  per  pound.  Pillows  are  expensive  things.  Very  good, 
cool,  and  pleasant  ones,  most  grateful  to  patients  in  fevers,  may  be  made 
by  curling  paper  and  stuffing  a  tick  with  it.  For  this  purpose  all  old 
useless  notes,  circulars,  etc.,  should  be  saved.  The  paper  is  cut  into 
narrow  strips,  and  curled  round  a  rather  blunt  penknife.  A  little  shredded 
flannel  or  cloth  should  be  mixed  with  it,  and  the  pillow  should  not  be 
stuffed  too  hard. 

Beds  and  mattresses  may  be  stuffed  with  chaff,  but  once  a  year  it  must 
be  taken  out  and  fresh  put  in,  instead  of  that  used.  Well  dried  moss 
answers  the  same  purpose,  and  in  some  countries  dried  birch  leaves  are 
used. 

If  poor  people  would  only  gather  the  seeds  of  the  thistle — thistle- 
down— every  year,  and  keep  their  collections  in  dry  paper  bags,  they  would 
soon  have  enough  for  the  softest  of  down  pillows,  and  at  the  same  time 
that  they  were  preparing  this  great  luxury  for  themselves  they  would  be 
diminishing  the  thistles  for  the  benefit  of  cultivation. 

Blankets. 

About  three  for  each  bed  should  be  provided,  small  or  large  as  required. 
For  people  who  can  afford  them,  duvets — i.e.,  down  coverlets — are  very 
delightful  and  ornamental.  In  some  families  four  and  even  five  blankets 
are  allowed  to  each  bed  ;  but  we  give  the  lowest  possible  number  which 
will  be  required.  The  better  the  quality  of  the  blankets  the  fewer  will  be 
required.  They  are  sold  by  the  width  and  length,  and  should  be  selected 
for  their  weight,  softness,  and  thickness.  The  price  of  very  good  "  extra 
supers  "  is  from  30J.  to  $os.  per  pair.  Aldershot  blankets  are  often  used 
for  servants.     They  are  only  6s.  per  pair. 

Marseilla  quilts  are  in  ordinary  use  and  maybe  of  several  qualities.  A 
patchwork  quilt  lined  with  soft  brown  paper  would  be  found  very  warm  in 
winter.  Knitted  quilts  are  pretty,  but  the  cotton  for  making  them  comes 
expensive. 


Secondhand  Furniture. — Cheap  Kitchen  Furniture.  35 

The  servant's  bedroom  should  be  made  as  comfortable  as  possible,  and 
she  should  be  encouraged  to  keep  it  nice  and  neat.  Commend  her  for 
any  attempt  to  adorn  her  bedroom. 

PURCHASING  SECONDHAND  FURNITURE. 

Furniture  may  be  purchased  very  cheaply  at  sales,  but  in  order  not  to 
run  any  risk  of  being  tricked  by  brokers  running  up  the  prices,  it  is  best  to 
mark  a  catalogue  with  the  exact  sum  you  would  give  for  each  article,  and 
not  on  any  account  to  exceed  it ;  or  you  could  give  a  catalogue  thus  marked 
to  a  broker,  and  pay  him  a  per  centage  on  his  obtaining  the  articles  at 
your  price.  The  furniture  you  intend  to  buy,  you  should  previously  closely 
examine.  If  it  is  wooden  furniture,  see  that  the  surfaces  are  level,  that 
there  are  no  cracks  or  rickety  legs  or  starting  veneer.  If  the  furniture  is 
really  good,  it  will  be  better  to  buy  it  than  to  purchase  new,  because  the 
fact  of  its  having  been  properly  seasoned  is  proved,  and  it  easily  and 
cheaply  re-polishes. 

We  do  not  recommend  purchasing  carpets  or  curtains  at  a  sale.  The 
latter  seldom  fit,  and  unless  they  a?'e  known  to  have  been  only  a  short  time 
in  wear,  their  lasting  cannot  be  relied  on.  The  same  may  be  said  of 
kitchen  utensils. 

In  purchasing  glass  and  china  there  can,  of  course,  be  little  possibility 
of  mistake. 

We  add  a  list  of  kitchen  utensils  for  small  houses,  and  for  large  ones, 
as  some  guide  to  persons  about  to  furnish ;  and  similar  lists  of  all  the 
other  necessaries  required  in  housekeeping. 

Cheap  Kitchen  Furniture. 

Open  range,  fender,  fireirons.  j  A  large  brown  earthenware  pan  for 

1  deal  table.  bread. 

A  bracket  of  deal  to  be  fastened  to  j  A  small  wooden  flour  kit. 

the  wall,  'and  let  down  when  j  3  flat  irons,  an  Italian  iron,  and  iron 

wanted.  stand. 


2  chairs,  rush-bottomed. 

1  wooden  chair. 

Floor  canvas. 

A  bit  of  coarse  canvas  to  lay  before 

fire  when  cooking. 
A  wooden  tub  for  washing  glass  and 

china. 
A  yellow  bowl  for  mixing  dough. 
1  small  zinc  basin  for  washing  hands. 
Wooden  salt-box  to  hang  up. 
Small  coffee-mill. 
Plate-rack. 
Knife-board. 


Old  blanket  for  ironing  on. 

2  washing-tubs. 

A  clothes  line. 

Clothes  horse. 

2  tin  candlesticks,  snuffers,  and  ex- 
tinguishers. 

2  blacking  brushes,  and  1  scrubbing- 
brush.* 

1  carpet  broom,  1  short  handled 
broom. 

Cinder-sifter,  dustpan,  sieve,  bucket, 
large  earthenware  pan  for  wash- 
ing plates. 


*  Vulcanized  India-rubber  scrubbing  brushes  are  best  of  all,  but  expensive  at 
first. 


D  2 


36 


Cheap,  and  Expensive  Kitchen  Furniture. 


Cheap  Kitchen  Furniture— continued. 


Patent  digester. 

i  teakettle. 

I  toasting-fork. 

I  bread-grater. 

i  bottle-jack  (a  screen  can  be  made 
with  the  clothes-horse  covered 
with  sheets,  which  will  be  aired 
at  the  same  time  ;  or,  if  it  can 
be  afforded,  a  Soyer's  portfolio 
meat-screen  is  very  useful). 

i  set  of  skewers. 

i  meat  chopper. 

I  block-tin  butter  saucepan. 


i  i  colander. 

3  iron  saucepans. 
I  i  iron  boiling  pot. 
I  i  fish  kettle. 
j  i  flour  dredge. 
'  I  fryingpan. 

i  hanging  gridiron. 
\  Salt  and  pepper  boxes, 
i  Rollingpin  and  pasteboard. 
!  12  patty  pans. 
:  I  larger  tin  pan. 
;  Pair  of  scales  or  steelyard. 
I  Soyer's  baking- dish. 


Large  and  Expensive  Kitchen. 


Floorcloth  (canvas). 

4  chairs. 

Large  deal  table. 

Side  table. 

Marble  slab  for  making  pastry. 

Spit,  smoke-jack,  etc.,  if  open  range, 
but  kitcheners  and  gas-stoves 
are  now  used  in  large  kitchens. 

Rollingpin  with  revolving  handle. 

Patent  salting  machine. 

Mincing  machine. 

Scales  and  weights  and  steelyard. 

Freezing  machine. 

Ice  closet. 

6  wrought  iron  saucepans — in  set. 

I  wrought  iron  stockpot. 

i  bain  marie  pan. 

I  braising  pan. 

i  oval  boiler. 

I  digester,  I  saucepan  ditto,  I  stew- 
pan  ditto. 

6  enamelled  stewpans. 

I  saute"  pan,  I  French  ditto. 

I  potato  steamer. 

I  salamander  and  stand. 

I  oval  fryingpan. 

I  round  ditto. 

I  fluted  gridiron. 

i  hanging  ditto. 

I  bachelor's  fryingpan. 

i  omelet  pan. 

i  omelet  souffle*  pan. 

i  presetting  pan  and  spoon. 


i  flour  dredger. 

1  sugar  ditto. 

i  wooden  meat  screen. 

i  plate  warmer. 

i  coffee-milL 

i  meat  chopper. 

Meat  saw. 

i  colander. 

Pestle  and  mortar. 

2  gravy  steamers, 
i  bread  grater. 

2  sets  of  skewers. 
i  fish  slice. 

i  egg  slice,  2  ladles. 

i  pair  of  steak  tongs. 

i  egg  whisk. 

i  beef  fork. 

i  French  cook's  knife. 

i  steak  beater. 

i  fish  kettle. 

Mackerel  saucepan. 

Turbot  kettle. 

Salmon  kettle. 

i  pair  of  fish  scissors. 

Sliding  toaster  and  trivet. 

Toasting  fork. 

Spice  box. 

Box  of  paste  cutters. 

12  patty  pans. 

3  tart  pans. 

3  Danish  moulds. 
Cheese  toaster, 
Dutch  oven. 


Cleaning  Utensils. — Glass. — Ch  ina. 


37 


Large  and  Expensive  Kitchen—  continued. 


3  larding  pins. 

1  mushroom  mould. 
Star  fritter  mould. 
Scroll  fritter  mould. 
French  vegetable  cutter. 
Vegetable  mould. 

3  pudding  moulds. 
6  jelly  moulds. 
3  cake  moulds. 

2  wooden  spoons. 
Sugar  spinners. 


Sugar  moulds. 

2  scrubbing  brushes, 
i  knifeboard. 

Knife  sharpener  or  steel. 
Wooden  bowls  for  washing  up. 

3  yellow  bowls  for  mixing  puddings, 

etc. 
Large  earthenware  pan  for  washing 

up. 
12  kitchen  cloths,  12  finer  cloths,  and 

12  dusters. 


In  very  large  establishments,  "kitcheners"  are  now  generally  used.  In 
small  houses  they  are  less  desirable,  as  they  are  apt  to  spread  a  smell  of 
red-hot  iron  through  the  dwelling,  and  even  the  ventilating  kitchener, 
which  is  best  for  this  purpose,  makes  a  small  kitchen  too  hot  for  the  health 
of  its  inmates.     The  same  may  be  said  of  the  cottager's  stove. 

Gas  cooking-stoves  will  be  found  handy,  and  very  economical. 

Needful  Cleaning  Utensils  for  Cook  and  Housemaid. 

Brushes. — For  the  cook  :  one  hair  broom,  one  hard  broom,  one  carpet 
broom,  one  sweep's  brush,  two  stove  brushes,  one  black-lead  brush,  one 
set  of  boot  brushes,  two  scrubbing  brushes.  For  the  housemaid  :  one 
hair  broom,  one  carpet  broom,  one  bannister  broom,  one  staircase  broom, 
one  dusting  broom,  one  Turk's  head  broom,  three  plate  brushes,  one 
mattress  brush,  two  scrubbing  brushes,  three  stove  brushes,  one  black- 
lead  brush,  one  sweep's  brush.  Leathers. — Three  for  the  cook  and  three 
for  the  housemaid,  and  two  pairs  of  housemaid's  gloves.  Weekly 
allowance  of  cloths. — For  the  cook :  one  round  towel,  one  dishing-up  cloth, 
one  dresser  cloth,  one  table  cloth,  six  kitchen  cloths,  one  dish  cloth,  one 
knife  cloth,  one  floor  cloth,  one  rubber,  three  dusters,  one  flannel,  pudding 
cloths  as  wanted.  For  the  housemaid  :  three  glass  cloths,  three  tea  cloths, 
six  dusters,  two  bedroom  cloths,  one  flannel.  The  quantity  can  be  in- 
creased in  proportion  to  the  household.. 


12  tumblers. 
12  (port)  wine  glasses. 
12  (sherry)  wine  glasses. 
12  claret  glasses. 


Glass — Cheap  Furnishing. 

2  quart  decanters. 

Water  jug  and  glasses. 

4  salt  cellars. 

Bottles  and  glasses  for  bedrooms. 


3  dozen  tumblers 

6  dozen  port      )     .         ,  „ 

6  dozen  sherry  (  wine  glasses  aU 

2  dozen  claret         best  ^uallt^ 


Glass — Expensive  Furnishing. 

2  dozen  Champagne  glasses.* 
2  dozen  Hock  glasses. 
2  dozen  liqueur  glasses. 
2  dozen  finger  glasses. 


*  The  Champagne  glass  with  a  hollow  stem  keeps  the  wine  perpetually  effer- 
vescing. 


38 


Glass, — China. — Plate. 


Glass — Expensive  Furnishing.  — continued. 


6  caraffes  and  glasses. 

i  dozen  small  saltcellars. 

4  large  ones  (if  silver  are  not  used). 

Claret  jug. 

4  quart  decanters. 

4  pint  decanters. 


Centre  glass  jug  and  tumblers. 

Badminton  jug 

12  glass  dishes  (large). 

6  small  ditto. 

Bottles  and  glasses  for  bedrooms. 


China— Expensive  Furnishing 

dinner  sets — one  of  Sevres  china    Pie  cases. 

for  company. 
tea  services — better  and  ordinary, 
breakfast  sets — ditto, 
dessert  service  as  elegant  as  liked. 


China  marmalade  pots. 


Sardine  pot  covers. 
Toilette  services. 
Washing  sets — toilette  pails. 
Bedroom  chimney-piece   candle- 
sticks. 


China — Cheap  Furnishing, 


I  tea  and  breakfast  service. 
i  dinner  set  for  eight  persons. 
China  washing  sets  for  bedrooms. 


Small  dessert  set — the  green  leaf  is 
cheapest  of  all — sometimes  part 
of  a  set  may  be  bought  cheaply. 

Bedroom  candlesticks. 


Everything  of  china  and  glass,  where  expense  is  no  object,  should  be 
as  elegant  as"  it  is  possible  to  buy  it.  Old  family  china  bowls,  etc.,  and 
Venetian  glass  of  all  kinds,  are  much  valued. 


1 8  large  forks. 
1 8  small  ditto. 
8  table  spoons. 
4  salt  spoons. 
12  tea  spoons. 


Plate — Cheap  Furnishing. 
ELECTROPLATE. 


8  dessert  spoons  and  8  dessert  forks. 

Fish  knife  and  fork. 

Teapot. 

Nut  crackers. 

Cruet  stand. 


Plate — Furnishing  Expensively, 


SILVER. 


4  dozen  silver  forks. 

4  dozen  small  ditto. 

2  dozen  table  spoons. 

2  dozen  dessert  ditto. 

4  large  salt  spoons. 

12  small  ditto. 

1 8  fish  knives. 

24  dessert  knives  and  forks. 

1  pair  of  asparagus  tongs. 


1  pair  of  grape  scissors. 

1  pickle  fork. 

1  crumb  scoop. 

6  pairs  of  nutcrackers. 
1 4  salt  cellars. 

j  1  cruet  stand — small  ditto  for  break- 
fast. 
1 1  silver  sugar  sifter. 
1 1  marrow  spoon. 


Moderator  Lamps.  39 


Plate — Furnishing  Expensively. — con  tinned. 


I  wine  strainer. 

1  fish  knife  and  fork,  1  fish  slice. 

2  soup  ladles. 
4  sauce  ladles. 

1  egg  stand  and  spoons. 
Tea  shell. 

Tea  service — i.e.,  teapot,  coffee  pot, 
milk  jugs,  and  sugar  basin. 


3  pairs  of  sugar  tongs. 

Plateau. 

Epergnes,  etc.  etc. 

Candlesticks. 

Branches. 

Bedroom  candlesticks. 


LAMPS. 

Gas  is  very  generally  used  now  in  towns.  It  is  the  cheapest  light 
there  is,  and  the  dirtiest.  It  defaces  and  tarnishes  gold,  blackens  the 
ceilings,  and  unbinds  books  ;  nevertheless  it  is  popular  on  account  of  its 
cheapness  and  the  amount  of  light  derived  from  it.  In  halls,  over  door- 
ways, in  passages  and  kitchens,  it  is  really  valuable,  and  as  a  means  of 
lighting  streets  a  great  public  boon.  Gas  chandeliers,  which  alone  belong 
to  our  article  on  furniture,  may  be  of  any  degree  of  elegance.  In  dining- 
rooms  they  should  be  of  bronze  ;  in  drawing-rooms,  gilt.  Petroleum  and 
paraffin  lamps  are  the  cheapest  next  to  gas,  but  the  burning  them  is  at- 
tended with  considerable  danger.  In  fact,  an  increased  premium  is  required 
by  insurance  offices  for  premises  where  paraffin  is  burned.  There  is  also  a 
disagreeable  vapour  arising  from  these  oils  which  is  very  objectionable. 

The  Duplex  lamp  in  which  silver  oil  is  burned,  is  now  generally  preferred 
to  all  others  ;  but  unless  very  carefully  filled  and  trimmed,  there  is  often 
a  disagreeable  smell  with  it.  We  are  old-fashioned  enough  to  prefer  the 
colza  oil  to  any  other  still. 

Reading  lamps  of  pretty  form  and  very  reasonable  are  now  to  be 
bought,  and  are  a  great  additional  evening  comfort. 

Moderator  lamps,  with  colza  oil,  are,  we  think,  the  best  lights  yet 
known,  after  gas.  They  may  be  purchased  at  any  price,  from  ijs.  or  iSs. 
Some  of  them  are  exceedingly  pretty. 

For  a  small  household,  one  moderator  lamp  will  suffice.  For  a  large 
establishment,  where  gas  is  not  burned,  as  in  country  houses,  about  four 
will  be  sufficient.  Chandeliers  and  wax  candles  supply  the  most  delicious 
of  lights. 

A  nice  hand  lamp  is  also  desirable. 

Moderator  Lamps. 

It  is  useless  to  describe,  in  detail,  the  mode  of  making  a  moderator 
lamp,  as  the  way  it  is  constructed  has  not  much  to  do  with  its  manage- 
ment. The  Moderator  lamp  is  an  Argand  lamp  in  principle,  with  an 
arrangement  for  forcing  the  oil  up  from  a  reservoir  in  the  pedestal  by 
means  of  a  piston  and  springs.  These  lamps  are  very  apt  to  get  out  of 
order,  and  after  being  once  repaired  are  still  more  liable  to  being  so  ;  the 
greatest  care  and  cleanliness  is  required  in  the  management  of  them.  The 
upper  portion  of  the  lamp  should  be  kept  quite  clean  by  washing  it  very 
often  with  strong  soda  and  water  to  remove  the  clotted  oil.  The  cotton 
wicks,  before  putting  them  freshly  in,  should  be  dried  in  the  oven  for 


40 


Gas. 


twenty  minutes.  In  winter  the  oil-can  should  be  placed  near  the 
kitchen  fire  before  the  oil  is  poured  into  the  lamp,  and  the  lamp  must  not 
be  kept  in  a  cold  room  or  the  oil  will  congeal  and  not  flow  freely.  Every 
day  the  lamp  must  be  trimmed,  the  black  edge  of  the  cotton  wick  must  be 
cut  off  very  evenly*  with  scissors  made  for  the  purpose,  and  fresh  oil 
must  be  added.  The  chimney  and  globe  must  also  be  kept  very  clean  or 
the  light  will  be  impeded.  Never  wash  the  chimney  ;  if  once  wet  it  will 
break  as  soon  as  the  lamp  is  lighted.  Clean  it  with  a  brush  leather 
made  for  the  purpose  and  sold  with  the  lamp  at  the  lamp  shops. 
Wash  the  globe  in  soda  and  water.  The  lamp  should  always  be  lighted 
with  a  wax  taper,  as,  if  ends  of  lucifers  fall  in,  or  bits  of  burnt  paper, 
they  will  make  the  inside  of  the  lamp  and  the  oil  dirty  and  injure  its 
efficiency. 

The  oil-can  must  also  be  kept  very  clean,  as  dirty  oil  will  at  once  spoil 
a  lamp.  To  clean  the  can,  drain  it  thoroughly  first — then  take  a  small 
mop  (such  as  is  used  for  cleaning  lamp-glasses)  tie  it  tightly  to  a  long 
stick,  and  wipe  out  the  can  well.  Make  a  strong  soap-lather,  with  carbolic 
or  yellow  soap,  pour  it  into  the  can  ;  rinse  well  with  it.  Then  rinse 
thoroughly  with  clean  water,  and  drain  till  dry. 

Colza  oil  is  used  for  this  lamp  ;  it  costs  4s.  gd.  or  4s.  6d.  per  gallon ; 
half-a-gallon  a  week  in  depth  of  winter  suffices  for  one  lamp. 

To  prevent  Lamps  from  Smoking. 

Soak  the  wick  in  strong  vinegar,  and  dry  it  well  before  you  use  it ; 
this  answers  very  well. 

GAS. 

Gas  consists  of  light  carburetted  hydrogen,  defiant  gas,  hydrogen, 
carbonic  oxide,  nitrogen,  vapour  of  volatile  liquid,  carbides  of  hydrogen, 
vapour  of  bisulphide  of  carbon. 

Great  care  should  be  taken  in  the  use  of  gas — a  tap  left  unturned  may 
cause  the  most  serious  accidents — kill  a  servant,  or  blowup  a  room.  If 
by  any  chance  it  has  escaped,  windows  should  be  at  once  opened  to  admit 
the  atmospheric  air,  and  let  it  escape,  and  it  should  be  turned  off  at  the 
main.  We  are  of  opinion  that  this  should  always  be  done  at  night,  as  in 
case  of  fire  its  presence  in  the  pipes  might  prove  dangerous,  should  a 
portion  of  them  melt.     The  dry  meter  is  the  best. 

The  quantity  of  gas  used  can  be  noted  and  checked  from  the  dial-plate 
in  front  of  the  meter. 

Ventilation  is  especially  required  where  gas  is  used,  as  it  poisons  the 
air,  and  blackens  furniture  and  paper  very  much  where  ventilation  is 
wanting. 

The  price  of  gas  varies  from  4^.  6d.  to  3^.  6d.  the  thousand  feet. 

Light  from  Gas. 

Although  chimneys  are  essential  to  argand  gas-burners,  and  globes 
also  in  many  places  where  fish-tail  burners  are  used,  and  the  ornamental 


*  If  unevenly  cut  the  lamp  will  flare,  and  the  flame  will  come  above  the 
chimney. 


Effect  of  Gas  on  Steel  Pens. — The  China  Closet.  41 

effect  is  pleasant,  still  they  are  detrimental  to  the  diffusion  of  the  light  of 
gas.  A  clear  glass  globe  obstructs  about  12  per  cent,  of  light ;  a  clear 
globe  engraved  with  flowers  about  24  per  cent.  ;  a  globe  ground  all  over 
40  per  cent.  ;  an  opal  globe  60  per  cent.  Hence  the  folly  is  apparent 
of  using  elaborately  engraved  and  ground  glass  globes  or  shades  where  it 
is  desirable  to  economize.  If  engraved  at  all,  the  upper  portion  of  the 
globe  only  should  be  embellished,  while  the  lower  part  should  be  left  clear 
for  the  free  passage  of  light. 

Effect  of  Gas  on  Steel  Pens. 

When  the  pen  has  been  written  with,  and  appears  spoiled,  place  it 
over  a  gaslight,  for  a  short  time — say  a  quarter  of  a  minute — then  dip  it  in 
water,  and  it  will  again  be  in  good  condition  to  write  with.  Also  any  new 
pen  which  is  too  hard  to  write  with,  will  become  softer  with  being  heated 
in  the  same  way. 

THE    CHINA    CLOSET. 

Two  hundred  years  ago  china  was  the  Englishwoman's  passion  ;  the 
fancy  for  it  was  carried  to  an  extent  of  folly  satirized  by  most  of  the 
writers  of  the  day.  "  There  is  no  inclination  in  women,"  says  Addison, 
"  that  more  surprises  me  than  this  passion  for  china.  When  a  woman  is 
visited  with  it,  it  generally  takes  possession  of  her  for  life.  China  vessels 
are  playthings  for  women  of  all  ages.  An  old  lady  of  fourscore  shall  be 
as  busy  in  cleaning  an  Indian  mandarin  as  her  great-granddaughter  is  in 
dressing  her  baby." 

"  If  you  were  to  come  into  my  great  parlour,"  says  a  correspondent  of 
the  Spectator,  "you  would  fancy  yourself  in  an  India  warehouse. 
Besides  this,  she  (his  wife)  keeps  a  squirrel,  and  I  am  doubly  taxed  to  pay 
for  the  china  he  breaks." 

"And  mistress  of  herself,  tho'  china  fall ' 

was  considered  then  the  height  of  womanly  endurance. 

Even  men  shared  in  this  taste  as  collectors,  and  of  Horace  Walpole  it 
was  said — 

11  China's  the  passion  of  his  soul, 
A  cup,  a  plate,  a  dish,  a  bowl 
Can  kindle  wishes  in  his  breast, 
Inflame  with  joy,  or  break  his  rest." 

The  taste  still  lingers  amongst  collectors,  though  generally  kept  within 
reasonable  bounds  ;  there  are  still  ladies  also  who  treasure  their  heritage 
of  old  china — and  with  reason.  The  ceramic  is  assuredly  a  charming 
art,  and  true  taste  will  always  delight  in  the  artistic  beauty  of  the  exquisite 
porcelain  of  Dresden,  Sevres,  Berlin,  Capo  di  Monte,  and  our  own  old 
Chelsea.  There  is  a  china  closet  in  most  old  family  dwellings,  in  which 
are  garnered  the  ancient  possessions  of  ancestors  and  friends,  of  the  value 
of  which  too  often  the  possessor  is  ignorant.  A  few  words  on  pottery  and 
porcelain  may  therefore  not  be  unwelcome  to  our  readers. 

Pottery — the  manufacture  of  vessels  of  all  kinds  from  clay— is  a  very 
ancient  art,  cultivated  long  ere  sculpture  or  painting  had  charmed  the 


42 


The  China  Closet. 


world.  Early  in  Scripture  the  potter  is  named,  and  many  are  the  simili- 
tudes furnished  by  his  art.*  The  second  king  of  Rome,  Numa  Pompilius, 
founded  a  potters'  college,  and  the  art  was  held  in  honour  by  all  the 
ancient  nations  of  the  earth.  The  funeral  pottery  found  in  tombs,  and 
easily  assignable  to  the  people  who  were  its  makers,  has  been  of  the  very 
greatest  service  to  the  historian  ;  it  ascertains  for  him  the  limits  of  Greek 
and  Roman  dominion,  and  of  Mahometan  sway,  while  the  degree  of  civili- 
zation, and  domestic  habits  of  nations  can  be  tolerably  well  learned  from 


Sevres  Porcelain,  French  Exhibition,  1 86  7. 

the  same  source.  But  we  have  to  speak  of  china  as  a  charm  of  the  home, 
not  as  an  object  of  antiquarian  research.  And  first  of  all,  the  exquisite 
Oriental  china,  which  has  never  been  surpassed  in  quality,  occurs  to  us. 
The  Chinese  first  brought  the  ceramic  art  to  perfection  ;  and  the  celebrated 
porcelain  tower  near  Nankin,  is  a  lasting  memorial  of  their  devotion  to  it. 
The  glazed  tiles  of  this  tower  are  oifayence,  covered  with  brilliant  glaze, 
and  a  legend  says  that  a  human  life  was  given  to  achieve  the  manufacture 
of  this  species  of  china. 

A  Chinese  Emperor  ordered  porcelain  tiles  to  be  manufactured  of  a 
size  and  kind  which  the  workmen  found  it  impossible  to  produce.  The 
sovereign  would  not  however  hear  of  an  impossibility,  and  the  mandarin 
who  had  to  enforce  the  imperial  command,  endeavoured  to  goad  on  the 
workmen  to  its  achievement  by  means  of  cruel  punishments  ;  one  of  them 
overcome  at  last  by  despair,  leaped  into  the  glowing  furnace,  and  was  con- 
sumed. When  the  same  furnace  was  afterwards  opened,  the  porcelain 
was  found  exactly  that  which  had  been  required,  and  from  that  hour  the 
man  who  had  thus  perished  was  worshipped  by  the  potters  as  their  tute- 


Psalm  ii 


9.    Isaiah  xlv.  9  ;  lxiv.  S.    Jeremiah  xviii.  6;  xix.  11.    Rev.  ii.  27. 


The  China  Closet.  43 


lary  deity.  The  funny  little  corpulent  figures  called  magots  are  images  of 
this  deified  workman* 

The  Portuguese  traders  were  the  first  who  introduced  the  fine  wares  of 
china  into  the  trade  of  Europe,  though  single  specimens  of  it  as  gifts 
to  royal  persons,  etc.,  had  before  found  their  way  here.  It  was  the 
Portuguese  who  gave  it  the  name  of  porcelain — i.e.,  Porcellana.  Its  glossy 
whiteness  reminded  them  of  the  pearly  lining  of  the  cowrie  shells  which 
were  (and  are  still)  used  as  money  in  the  East,  and  as  they  called  these 
shells  ftorcella,  or  "  little  pigs"  (from  the  likeness  of  their  shape  to  the  back 
of  that  animal)  they  transferred  a  modification  of  the  name  to  the  china. 
They  enjoyed  a  monopoly  of  the  trade  in  it  for  some  time  ;  and  when 
they  ceased  to  possess  it  the  Dutch  obtained  it  and  kept  it  long. 

The  first  Chinese  porcelain  brought  into  England  is  believed  to  have 
been  presented  to  Queen  Elizabeth  by  Cavendish,  the  celebrated  traveller. 
That  the  great  queen  had  a  true  woman's  taste  for  china  we  may  infer 
from  the  New  Year's  gifts  made  to  her  in  1587-8  when  Lord  Burghley  pre- 
sented her  with  "  one  porringer  of  white  porselyn  garnished  with  gold,"  and 
Mr.  Robert  Cecil  gave  her  "  a  cup  of  grene  porselyn."  These  gifts  were 
probably  purchased  from  seamen  who  had  captured  Spanish  carracks, 
and  who  disposed  of  this  part  of  the  cargo  ;  for  there  was  no  trade  in 
china  till  the  East  India  Company  had  formed  their  first  establishment  at 
Gombron. 

Nankin  Porcelain  is  blue  and  white  ;  the  clearness  of  the  white  and 
fineness  of  the  blue  determine  its  value. 

The  old  sea-green  or  Celadon  is  very  valuable.  So  also  is  the  trans- 
parent china  called  "  egg-shell"  china,  which  is  wonderfully  thin  and 
fragile.  A  sister  of  the  writer  possesses  some  cups  of  it  which  are  per- 
fectly transparent.  The  citron-coloured  and  ruby  are  extremely  rare,  being 
made  only  for  the  Emperor's  use  ;  they  are  not  allowed  to  be  sold  publicly. 

Japanese  China  is  superior  to  Chinese  in  the  quality  of  the  paste 
and  the  colours,  which  are  generally  blue  and  red — some  is  of  lacquered 
ware,  with  subjects  in  mother-of-pearl. 

Majolica  is  Italian  pottery,  sometimes  known  under  the  name  of  Raf- 
faele  ware  or  Umbrian  ware.  It  was  manufactured,  it  is  believed,  in  imita- 
tion of  the  Moorish  pottery  taken  by  the  Pisans  from  Majorca.  Hence  its 
first  name.  Afterwards  it  was  called  Raffaele  ware  because  it  was  de- 
corated with  paintings  from  the  copper  plates  that  the  great  engraver 
Marc  Antonio  printed  from  the  famous  Raffaele's  works. 

Palissy's  Pottery  (French)  is  also  greatly  valued.  The  story  of  his  life- 
long struggles,  of  his  discouraging  wife,  and  his  death  in  the  Bastile,  are 
familiar  to  most  readers  from  the  pretty  tale  called  "  Madame  Palissy's 


*  A  very  intelligent  little  Chinese  girl  told  the  writer  some  four  or  five  years 
ago,  that  a  female  infant  is  sacrificed  still  at  times  for  the  success  of  the  porcelain 
manufacture.  The  child  is  told  to  look  at  some  wonderful  thing  in  the  furnace, 
and  is  then  pushed  in.  "  They  think,"  she  said,  in  her  broken  English,  "that 
china  sure  to  come  out  very  good  then."  It  was  evidently  a  tale  heard  in  the 
nursery ;  but  considering  the  amount  of  cruelty  and  superstition  known  to  exist 
amongst  the  celestials,  it  is  not  impossible  that  it  may  be  true.  In  fact  the 
worship  of  the  unfortunate  Pousa  may  have  given  the  Chinese  potters  the  idea  of 
such  a  sacrifice. 


44  The  China  Closet. 


Troubles/'  Palissy's  fayence  is  decorated  with  subjects  in  relief,  never 
with  flat  painting.  The  colours  are  usually  yellows,  blues,  and  greys — 
sometimes  violet,  green,  and  brown.  His  plates,  dishes,  etc.,  repre- 
sent the  fossil  shells,  reptiles,  fish  and  plants  of  the  neighbourhood  of 
Paris.  But  these  are  not  all  his  works.  There  are  statuettes,  cups,  salt- 
cellars, incense  burners,  and  baskets  by  him  of  great  beauty. 

The  Fayence  of  Henry  II.'s  time  is  wonderfully  beautiful  and  much 
valued.  It  is  made  of  a  hard  paste,  while  the  Majolica  and  Palissy  ware 
are  both  of  soft  paste.  Majolica  is  covered  with  a  thick  coating  of  enamel. 
The  Fayence  of  Henry  II.  (French)  is  only  covered  with  a  thin  transparent 
yellowish  glaze — dark  yellow  is  the  predominant  colour  of  some  of  its 
patterns.     Its  decorations,  in  relief,  are  generally  pink. 

Porcelain  is  composed  of  two  substances — alumina  or  clay,  called 
technically  Kaolin,  which  cannot  be  melted  by  heat ;  the  other  felspar  or 
petro-silex — called  pe-tun-tse — which  will  vitrify  in  heat.  Hard  paste 
porcelain  is  composed  of  a  greater  proportion  of  alumina  and  less  of  silex. 
It  requires  greater  heat  in  the  furnace,  and  is  of  a  denser  substance  than 
soft  paste  porcelain.  The  soft  paste  porcelain  has  more  silex  with  the 
addition  of  alkaline  fluxes,  and  therefore  requires  less  furnace  heat  and  is 
less  dense.  It  is  easily  scratched  by  a  knife.  Porcelain  is  in  short  a  sub- 
stance between  earthenware  pottery  and  glass. 

The  first  European  hard  porcelain  was  made  at  Dresden,  under  the 
auspices  of  Frederick  Augustus  I.  Elector  of  Saxony,  and  afterwards 
King  of  Poland.  The  circumstances  attending  the  Saxon  discovery  of 
the  art  are  remarkable. 

There  dwelt  at  Berlin  an  apothecary's  assistant  called  John  Frederick 
Bottcher,  who  was  suspected  of  being  an  alchemist,  and  compelled  to  fly 
for  safety  to  Saxony.  The  Elector  Augustus  sent  for  him,  and  demanded 
of  him  whether  he  truly  possessed  the  secret  of  making  gold.  Bottcher 
denied  any  such  power,  but  the  Elector  did  not  believe  him,  and  placed 
him  under  the  charge  of  the  alchemist,  Tschirnhaus,  who  was  then  em- 
ployed by  the  prince  in  the  search  for  the  Elixir  of  Life  and  the  Philo- 
sopher's Stone.  Whilst  working  at  the  furnaces,  Bottcher  perceived  in  the 
contents  of  some  crucibles  a  substance  resembling  Oriental  porcelain.  He 
communicated  his  discovery  to  the  Elector,  who  perceived  the  importance 
of  the  discovery,  and  at  once  removed  Bottcher  to  the  Castle  of  Albrechts- 
burg,  in  Meissen,  where  (though  he  supplied  him  with  all  possible  comforts 
and  luxuries)  he  detained  the  poor  artist  a  close  prisoner  till  his 
death.  Tho  first  attempts  of  Bottcher  produced  only  a  kind  of  red 
stone-ware  ;  it  was  not  till  the  occurrence  of  another  accidental  cir- 
cumstance, in  1709,  that  he  was  enabled  to  manufacture  white  porcelain. 
The  circumstance  was  this  :  —  An  iron-master  of  the  Erzgcbirge, 
named  Schnorr,  riding  one  day  near  Aue  (in  Saxony),  found  his  horse's 
hoofs  continually  stick  fast  in  a  soft  white  clay.  As  hair-powder  was 
in  general  use  at  the  time,  it  occurred  to  him  that  this  clay,  dried  and 
powdered,  might  be  a  substitute  for  the  wheat-flour  employed  in  the 
manufacture  of  it.  He  collected  some  of  the  earth,  carried  it  to  Carls- 
feld,  and  had  a  hair-powder  made  of  it,  of  which  he  sold  at  Dresden 
and  other  places  great  quantities.  One  of  its  purchasers  was  Bottcher. 
He  noticed  its  singular  weight  in  his  hair  ;  ascertained  where  it  was 
bought,  and  that  it  was  an  earth,  and  at  once  tried  it  as  a  clay,  or  kaolin, 


The  China  Closet.  45 


for  his  ware.  It  proved  the  right  material  for  making  white  porcelain,  and 
the  great  manufactory  at  Meissen  was  at  once  established  by  Augustus. 
This  clay  was  known  henceforth  as  Schnorrische  iveisse  Erde,  and  was 
taken  to  the  manufactory  in  sealed  barrels  by  persons  sworn  to  secresy. 

Horoldt  succeeded  Bottcher  as  head  of  the  Meissen  manufactory  in 
1720.  In  1731,  Kandler,  a  sculptor,  superintended  the  modelling,  and  the 
art  rose  to  a  great  degree  of  perfection.  The  best  productions  of  Kandler 
were  the  "Lute  Player  "representing  "Hearing,"  from  his  allegorical  groups 
of  the  "  Senses."  "  The  Broken  Looking  Glass,"  "  Marriage  a-la-Mode  ;" 
"The  Love  Letter,"  and  several  groups  of  children.  Dresden  figures  have 
in  fact  ever  since  been  famous. 

Dresden  candelabra  have  never  been  surpassed.  A  friend  of  the 
writer  possesses  two,  on  which  the  flowers  are  life-like.  The  "  lace  "  on 
figures  is  of  especial  beauty.  We  have  been  told  by  a  collector  that  it  is 
real  lace  which  is  put  into  the  clay,  and  reappears  as  lace  in  china.  Berlin 
china  stands  second  to  Dresden  in  beauty  of  form  and  colour.  The 
manufacture  was  commenced  by  Frederick  the  Great  after  his  occupation 
of  Dresden  in  the  Seven  Years'  War.  He  established  it  by  a  shameful 
act  of  injustice  : — He  despatched  large  masses  of  the  "  Schnorrische" 
Kaolin,  or  clay,  to  Berlin,  and  sent  off  captive  thither  the  best  modellers 
and  painters  of  Meissen,  who  were  compelled  thenceforward  to  toil  in  the 
service  of  the  conqueror  and  inveterate  enemy  of  their  country.  Never- 
more were  these  unfortunate  exiles  allowed  to  return  to  their  native  land  ; 
their  descendants  or  pupils  are  still  the  subjects  of  Prussia. 

Frederick  compelled  the  Jews  to  become  his  customers  by  refusing  to 
allow  them  to  marry  till  they  had  purchased  a  service  of  Porcelain  from 
the  royal  manufactory,  from  the  trade  of  which  he  obtained  200,000  crowns 
annually. 

Berlin  is  celebrated  for  the  manufacture  of  lithophanes,  or  transparent 
pictures  in  white  porcelain.  A  sister  of  the  writer  possesses  an  exquisite 
nightlight-holder,  and  kettle,  of  the  purest  transparency  ;  the  light  within 
exhibiting  the  most  charming  pictures  perfect  in  light  and  shade.  The 
Berlin  Biscuit  figures  are  also  very  charming. 

English  porcelain  was  chiefly  of  soft  paste  ;  that  of  Bow  was  coeval 
with  Chelsea,  to  which  it  bears  a  resemblance.  A  bee  is  often  seen  on 
it,  either  embodied  or  painted  on  the  handle  or  under  the  spout  of  the 
cream-jug. 

Chelsea  china  was  manufactured  in  Queen  Anne's  reign,  but  was  not 
then  remarkable  for  excellence.  Under  the  patronage  of  George  II.  and 
the  Duke  of  Cumberland  (of  Culloden  memory)  it  rose  rapidly  to  excel- 
lence ;  and  in  George  III.'s  time  quite  equalled  Dresden  china.  Its 
colours  are  fine  and  vivid,  especially  the  one  peculiar  to  Chelsea,  the 
claret  colour.  Paul  Ferg,  a  German  artist,  and  Beaumont  painted  the 
best  landscapes  on  it.  Foreign  artists  probably  designed  the  birds,  insects 
and  flowers  which  enrich  it. 

The  manufactory  was  situated  at  the  corner  of  Justice  Walk,  and 
occupied  the  house  at  the  upper  end  of  Lawrence  Street. 

"  The  factory  stood  just  below  the  bridge,  upon  the  site  of  Lord 
Dartery's  house.  My  father  worked  for  them  at  one  time,"  said  Nolle- 
kens.  "Yes,"  replied  Betew,  "and  Sir  James  Thornhill  designed  for 
them Paul  Ferg  painted  for  them.     The  cunning  rogues  produced 


46  The  China  Closet. 


very  white  and  delicate  ware,  but  then  they  had  their  clay  from  China, 
which  when  the  Chinese  found  out  they  would  not  let  the  captains  have 
any  more  for  ballast,  and  the  consequence  was  that  the  whole  concern 
failed."* 

A  very  curious  coffee-pot,  supposed  to  have  been  manufactured  for 
George  II.,  is  in  the  family  of  the  writer.  It  has  a  silver  spout  and  silver 
edges.  It  was  used  daily  by  the  king  ;  but  (according  to  the  fashion  of 
those  days)  became,  with  all  the  other  china  and  glass,  a  perquisite  of 
the  captain  of  his  yacht  after  his  Majesty's  first  or  second  voyage  to 
Hanover. 

Chelsea  china  is  of  great  value,  and  sells  for  very  high  prices.  Its 
manufacture  ceased  in  1765,  whether  from  the  merchant  captains  failing 
to  obtain  Chinese  kaolin  for  ballast  !  or  by  the  smuggling  in  of  Dresden 
china  at  a  nominal  duty  by  foreign  ministers,  is  not  clear. 

Worcester  china  is  remarkable  for  its  durability  as  well  as  excellence. 
Coalbrook  Dale  china  (Shropshire)  was  more  for  use  than  ornament,  but 
was  nevertheless  often  beautiful. 

French  porcelain  ranks  very  high.  The  royal  porcelain  manufacture 
of  Sevres  was  patronized  by  Madame  de  Pompadour.  Difficulties  in 
procuring  the  kaolin,  or  clay,  for  white  porcelain  at  first  impeded  this 
manufacture,  but  the  needful  material  was  again  discovered  by  chance, 
that  is,  if  observation  can  deserve  so  to  be  designated.  Madame  Darnet, 
the  wife  of  a  poor  surgeon  residing  at  St.  Yricix,  near  Limoges,  perceived 
in  a  ravine  through  which  she  happened  to  be  walking,  a  white  unctuous 
earth.  She  must  have  been  an  intelligent  woman,  and  anxious  to  reduce 
needful  household  expenses,  for  she  thought  it  possible  that  this  clay 
might  serve  as  a  substitute  for  soap  ;  so  she  carried  some  of  it  home,  and 
displayed  it  to  her  husband.  He,  in  turn,  showed  it  to  a  chemist  at  Bor- 
deaux, who  having  heard  of  the  researches  then  making  for  proper  porce- 
lain earth,  sent  the  specimen  to  the  chemist  Macquer,  who  at  once 
declared  that  it  was  true  kaolin. 

From  that  period  the  manufacture  rose  to  great  eminence.  Our 
readers  will  be  glad  to  learn  that  the  good  housemother,  whose  wise  study 
of  economy  led  to  this  discovery,  finally  benefited  by  it.  Madame  Darnet 
was  reduced  to  great  distress,  living  in  poverty  at  Paris  in  1825,  when  she 
applied  to  the  celebrated  M.  Brongniart,  the  director  of  the  Sevres  manu- 
factory, for  the  means  of  returning  on  foot  to  St.  Yrieix.  The  director 
brought  her  case  before  the  king,  Louis  XVI 1 1.,  who  immediately  assured 
her  future  comfort  by  granting  her  a  pension  from  the  Civil  List. 

Sevres  china  is  now  the  first  in  estimation.  The  colours  used  on  it  are 
remarkable  for  their  unequalled  beauty — the  bleu  du  roi,  bleu  turquoise, 
Jonquille,  vert  pre,  and  lastly,  the  exquisite  rose  du  Barry,  a  very  lovely 
pink,  are  the  principal  tints.  The  paintings  on  it,  by  Watteau  and  other 
masters,  and  the  jewelled  cupst  must  be  tolerably  well  known  to  the 
reader  who  has  visited  the  South  Kensington  Museum,  etc.  Bouquets  of 
flowers  (the  especial  work  of  women)  are  ancient  Sevres,  and  of  great 
value. 


*  Life  of  Nollekens. 
+  Only  genuine  when  the  colour  is  bleu  du  roi. 


The  China  Closet.  4? 


The  Capo  di  Monte  china  is  very  beautiful  and  very  easily  recognised. 
It  is  quite  an  original  china,  unlike  that  of  either  Germany  or  France.  It 
is  decorated  in  the  very  highest  relief,  and  the  figures  are  most  exquisitely 
moulded.  The  late  George  Smith,  Esq.,  of  21,  Russell  Square,  well-known 
for  his  generous  patronage  of  art,  and  his  skill  and  judgment  in  collecting, 
possessed  (his  widow  still  possesses)  two  Capo  di  Monte  vases  of  great 
beauty.  The  figures  are  in  such  high  relief  that  they  appear  scarcely 
attached  to  the  side  of  the  vase,  and  cast  light  shadows  upon  it  in  some 
places  ;  the  paste  is  of  wonderful  excellence.  The  subjects  are  a  vintage 
feast,  dancers,  &c. 

The  marks  by  which  the  china  we  have  described  may  be  known  have 
now  to  be  mentioned. 

Oriental  china  is  marked  in  two  ways,  either  by  Chinese  characters 
which  fix  the  reign  or  dynasty  under  which  the  piece  was  made,  or  by 
the  marks  of  the  several  factories  or  those  of  the  makers  of  the  pieces ; 
these  are  various,  and  the  Chinese  characters  are  unmistakeable  (several 
works  on  the  subject  give  the  marks  chronologically).  The  acorus 
or  the  sweet  rush,  the  Gladiolus,  the  numerical  1  ( — )  and  2  (=),  fish, 
a  small  thin  nail,  the  flower  of  the  plant  Lesance,  a  kind  of  grain,  two 
lions  playing  with  a  ball,  two  ducks  painted  in  the  centre  of  the  vase, 
grasshoppers  or  crickets  fighting,  a  hen  and  chickens,  are  all  marks  to  be 
found  on  Oriental  china,  and  fix  with  some  accuracy  its  date  ;  but  as  our 
limits  will  not  permit  us  to  give  them  all,  we  refer  our  readers  for  informa- 
tion to  Marryat's  "  History  of  Pottery  and  Porcelain,"  a  most  valuable 
and  exhaustive  work,  and  to  Mr.  Bonn's  volume  on  the  same 
subject. 

Majolica  and  Palissy  ware  (which  are  pottery  and  not  porcelain)  are 
easily  recognisable  from  their  peculiarities. 

The  marks  on  Dresden  china  are  A.R.,  signifying  Augustus  Rex  ; 
K.P.M.  (Koniglich  Porzellan  Manufactur)  ;  the  caduceus  ;  the  Electoral 
swords  crossed.  The  period  when  the  King  was  the  actual  director  of  the 
manufactory  is  marked  by  the  crossed  swords  having  a  dot  between  their 
handles ;  sometimes  there  is  a  star  between  the  handles,  signifying  that 
Marcolini  was  director  when  the  piece  was  made. 

Berlin  porcelain  has  as  marks  a  W,  two  strokes  of  the  letter  being  too 
short  and  the  centre  strokes  irregularly  crossed  like  an  X  ;  a  sceptre  in 
brown,  if  the  porcelain  be  painted  and  gilded  ;  in  blue,  if  the  porcelain  be 
white.  Since  1833  the  marks  have  been  the  sceptre,  eagle,  and  im- 
perial globe  in  brown,  on  painted  and  gilded  porcelain,  and  the  sceptre  and 
letters  K.P.M.  (Koniglich  Porzellan  Manufactur),  in  blue,  if  the  porcelain 
be  white  ;  another  is  an  eagle  burnt  in  colour  on  the  bottom. 

Dutch  porcelain  of  the  Hague  has  for  mark  a  stork  standing  on  one 
leg  with  a  fish  in  its  mouth. 

The  porcelain  of  Denmark,  which  is  at  present  excellent,  is  marked 
with  three  parallel  wavy  lines  signifying  the  Sound  and  the  Great  and 
Little  Belts. 

Swiss  porcelain  is  marked  with  a  fish. 

Bow  china  has  a  triangle. 

Of  Chelsea — the  earliest  had  no  marks — by-and-by  came  an  embossed 
oval  with  a  raised  anchor  on  it — an  anchor  and  cross,  and  next  the  red 
and  gold  anchor.     The  gold  anchor  signifies  the  best  Chelsea  porcelain,, 


48  The  Chi?m  Closet. 

Two  anchors  were  sometimes  stamped  on  it,  and  three  dirty  spots  with- 
out glazing  on  the  bottom  of  the  piece  also  characterize  this  porcelain  ; 
they  were  caused  by  the  clumsy  tripod  on  which  it  stood  in  the 
furnace. 

Sevres  china  marks  are  easily  understood,  for  the  na?ne  is  frequent,  and 
royal  cyphers,  eagles,  crowns,  fleur  de  lis,  and  N  with  the  crown  imperial 
at  once  distinguish  it. 

The  Capo  di  Monte  marks  are  a  figure  resembling  a  flower  with  a 
short  curled  stem  ;  a  crown  with  a  wide  N  under  it ;  a  tiara  like  an  earl's 
coronet  with  N  under  it.  These  marks  are  painted  in  blue  or  red,  or 
graved  on  the  moist  clay. 

Plymouth  china  has  for  its  mark  the  astronomical  symbol  for  Jupiter. 
The  wares  in  household  use  in  England  at  present  are  the  Oriental,  Japan, 
Dresden,  and  Sevres,  English  porcelain  made  at  Worcester  and  in  the 
potteries  of  Staffordshire  ;  iron-stone  and  stone  china — a  very  hard  and 
tough  kind  with  little  or  no  transparency;  semi-porcelain  made  for 
cooking  and  chemical  operations,  and  earthenware — which  is  known  as 
Wedgwood's,  delft  ware,  etc. 

Wedgwood  ware  has  been  brought  to  great  perfection.  Delft  is  an 
imitation  of  the  famous  Dutch  pottery  which  was  in  ordinary  use  in  Eng- 
land from  the  reign  of  our  Henry  IV.  till  Wedgwood's  superior  produc- 
tion put  an  end  to  the  delft  trade  of  Holland.  The  Dutch  tiles  which 
were  formerly  used  for  lining  fireplaces,  dairies,  etc.  are  well-known.  They 
came  into  fashion  in  England  in  1625 — Charles  I.'s  reign. 

The  materials  for  English  earthenware  and  porcelain  are  silica,  pro- 
cured from  the  flints  of  the  Sussex  coast  and  from  Antrim  in  Ireland  ; 
alumina  from  different  sorts  of  clay — from  Bideford  and  the  Isle  of  Pur- 
beck  come  two  pipe  clays.  A  china  clay  (an  extremely  white  and  impal- 
pable powder)  is  found  in  catchpools  in  Cornwall.  Magnesium  clay,  slate 
and  shale  clays  are  also  used,  and  bone  earth  which  is  made  by  removing 
the  gelatine  from  bones  by  boiling,  and  then  calcining  and  grinding 
them.  The  process  of  making  pottery  is  a  long  one — first  the  clay  is  pre- 
pared, next  thrown)  as  it  is  called;  turned,  modelled,  or  pressed  ;  baked  into 
biscuit — painted  or  printed,  glazed  and  ornamented. 

Washing  China* 

Valuable  china,  such  as  Oriental,  Dresden,  or  Sevres,  should  never  be 
trusted  to  the  housemaid  to  dust  or  wash  ;  a  lady  of  the  family  should  do 
this  task  herself. 

For  Dresden  china,  rich  in  groups  of  flowers,  etc.,  a  soft  tooth-brush 
may  be  required  for  the  very  intricate  and  embossed  work.  Wash  it 
in  very  clean  COLD  water,  use  a  little  soap,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  dry 
with  a  soft  wash-leather.  Take  care  to  wash  it  in  a  wooden  bowl, 
as  an  earthenware  basin  might  possibly  crack  it.  Sevres  vases, 
Oriental  china,  etc.,  should  be  washed  with  a  soft  sponge  in  cold  water ; 
soap  is  seldom  required,  nor  washing  often,  if  china  is  carefully  dusted  : 
never  use  soda,  it  will  injure  gilding  and  fade  colours. 

For  washing  ordinary  china  in  daily  use  for  breakfast  or  tea,  use  very 
hot  water  in  a  wooden  bowl.     Dip  one  cup  in  at  a  time,  wipe  it  in  a  clean 


The  Linen  Press  Or  Closet  49 

and  dry  linen  cloth.  The  hot  water  and  separate  washing  will  give  a 
polish  ;  never  use  soda  for  fear  of  injuring  the  gold  or  colours.  The  dirty 
habit  of  putting  all  the  cups  in  a  pile,  draining  on  each  other,  in  the 
wooden  bowl  should  never  be  endured.  The  cups  are  never  freed  from 
grease  when  washed  in  this  manner  ;  they  are  always  dull-looking  and 
sticky.  One  cup  at  a  time  and  a  clean  dry  cloth  should  be  the  rule.  Mr. 
Bamfield  of  the  Crystal  Palace  says,  half  the  china  made  is  defaced  and 
injured  by  the  use  of  soda. 

Accidents  in  spite  of  every  care  will  occasionally  happen  to  china.  The 
readiest  way  to  mend  a  fracture  is  to  take  instantly  the  white  of  an  egg, 
brush  it  over  the  edges  with  a  feather,  replace  the  piece,  and  tie  it  together 
with  a  piece  of  tape  till  it  dries  ;  this  cement  will  hold  the  cup  or  plate 
together  so  long  as  it  is  not  wet. 

A  strong  and  lasting  cement  can  be  made  from  white  flint.  Get  a 
chemist  to  make  you  some  white  flint  powder,  and  mix  it  with  resin  to  the 
consistency  of  a  paste.  Keep  it  for  use.  The  mode  of  applying  it  is  to 
heat  the  edges  of  the  fracture  and  piece,  rub  the  cement  on  them,  and  join 
and  tie  them  together.  When  dry  remove  the  cement  which  remains  outside 
the  edges.  Or,  beat  lime  into  the  most  impalpable  powder,  sift  it  through 
fine  muslin ;  then  tie  some  into  a  thin  muslin  ;  put  on  the  edges  of  the 
broken  china  some  white  of  egg,  then  dust  some  lime  quickly  on  the  same, 
and  unite  them  exactly.  The  Chinese  use  finely  powdered,/?/;//  glass  with 
the  white  of  an  egg-. 


THE   LINEN   PRESS  OR   CLOSET* 

The  linen  press  or  closet  should  be  in  a  dry  place.  Each  shelf  should 
be  covered  with  clean  brown  paper,  and  on  it  should  lie  a  large  muslin 
bag  full  of  lavender,  and  a  small  one  of  camphor.  A  book  should  be  kept 
in  one  corner,  in  which  the  entire  contents  of  the  closet  should  be  entered, 
the  number  of  the  shelves  stated,  and  what  is  on  each. 

Stick  papers  with  number  on  the  edge  of  each  shelf. 

This  closet  must  contain  all  the  household  linen  (lists  of  which 
are  given  a  little  further  on)  ;  the  extra  blankets  or  bedding ;  the 
counterpanes  and  quilts  ;  all  pieces  of  bed  furniture  ;  curtains  not  in 
actual  use  ;  muslin  curtains  ;  pieces  of  paper-hangings,  and  general  odds 
and  ends. 

The  air  should  be  frequently  admitted  to  the  press  or  closet,  and 
nothing  damp  should  be  put  away  in  it. 

Linen  is  made  from  flax,  the  straw  of  a  European  plant  which 
has  a  pretty  blue  flower.  This  straw  is  deprived  of  its  juices  by  mace- 
ration and  washing.  It  is  afterwards  bleached,  spun,  and  converted 
by  weaving  into  plain  linen — more  or  less  fine — damask,  Holland,  and 
lawn. 

Cotton  is  a  vegetable  down  contained  in  the  seed  of  the  cotton  plant, 
which  is  cultivated  in  America,  the  East  and  West  Indies,  and  Egypt. 
Cotton,  after  many  processes,  is  woven  into  calico,  muslin,  chintz,  di- 
mity, etc. 

Linen  is  much  more  expensive  than  cotton,  but  it  wears  a  great  deal 

K 


50  The  Linen  Press  or  Closet. 

longer.  Cloth  made  of  flax  is  clearer  than  that  made  of  cotton,  and  very 
cold  to  the  touch.     Cotton  is  whiter,  thicker  and  warmer  to  the  touch. 

Linen  should  be  purchased  at  a  trustworthy  shop,  as  table-cloths  and 
diapered  articles  are  often  adulterated  with  cotton. 

House  linen  should  be  nicely  marked  with  the  united  initials  of 
husband  and  wife,  and  the  number  of  purchase.  By  number  we  do  not 
mean  I,  2,  3,  but  on  each  article  the  number  of  which  the  set  consists, 
as  12,  24,  36,  as  it  may  be.  Example — A  B  C,  24,1872  ;  or  A  B  C,  36, 
1872. 

A  good  store  of  fine  linen  was  once  the  pride  of  Englishwomen,  as  well 
as  of  the  Scotch,  and  to  the  fact  that  a  maiden  must  spin  her  own  linen 
for  her  future  home  before  she  was  deemed  meet  to  be  a  wife,  we  owe  the 
word  spinster — equivalent  to  maiden.  The  pride  in  household  linen,  like 
many  other  good  household  feelings,  has  nearly  passed  away  in  some 
circles  ;  but  the  true  housemother  who  cares  for  the  comfort  and  beauty 
of  her  home,  will  still  feel  a  matronly  pride  in  her  linen  closet. 

Linen  consists  of  sheets,  pillow-cases,  tablecloths,  table-napkins,  towels, 
quilts,  etc. 

By  persons  of  very  small  income  only  a  small  quantity  of  linen 
can  be  bought  at  a  time,  as  it  is  expensive.  For  two  beds,  four  pairs  of 
sheets  will  suffice  ;  for  three  beds,  five  pairs,  as  the  changing  may  be 
so  managed  that  the  two  extra  pairs  will  suffice  ;  but  when  there  is  only 
a  small  stock  of  linen,  it  soon  wears  out,  and  has  to  be  replaced  ;  if, 
therefore,  the  outlay  can  be  spared,  a  good  stock  will  be  found  most 
economical.  If  however  only  a  few  articles  of  household  linen  can  be 
afforded  at  a  time,  it  is  well  to  lay  by  a  small  sum  constantly,  with  which 
an  occasional  purchase  of  a  sheet  or  tablecloth  may  be  made.  The  fol- 
lowing arc  three  lists  of  linen  for  different  incomes  : — 


Smallest  Quantity. 


6  pairs  of  good  cotton  sheets. 
6  pillow  cases  (untrimmed.) 

3  dozen  bedroom  towels,  part  rough, 

part  soft,  part  servants'  towels. 

4  tablecloths 

1  dozen  table  napkins. 


12  coarse  kitchen  towels. 
6  glass  cloths. 
12  dusters. 
2  roller  towels. 

4  counterpanes,  or  one  for  each  bed. 
and  two  for  change. 


2  kitchen  tablecloths.  1 4  toilette  covers 


Medium  Quantity. 


12  pairs  of  linen  sheets  (unless  cotton 
are  preferred.)  These  include 
servants'. 

2  dozen  pillow  cases,  frilled. 

6  dozen  bedroom  towels  (2  dozen  of 
which  may  be  bath  towels,  and 
1  dozen  servants'  towels.) 

12  tablecloths. 


24  table  napkins. 

6  kitchen  tablecloths. 

6  roller  towels. 

4  dresser  cloths. 

12  coarse  kitchen  towels. 

12  glass  cloths  (linen.) 

12  toilette  covers. 

24  dusters. 


The  Linen  Press  or  Closet.  5 1 


Good  Quantity. 


24  pairs  of  linen,  cotton,  and  servants' 

sheets. 
24  pillow  cases  edged  with  lace,  and 

plain  for  servants. 
1 2  bath  towels 
24  fine  towels. 

24  coarse  and  servants'  towels. 
24  toilette  covers. 
18  tablecloths. 


12  breakfast  cloths. 
6  kitchen  tablecloths. 
36  table  napkins. 
6  roller  towels. 
4  dresser  cloths. 
24  coarse  kitchen  towels. 
24  glass  cloths  (linen.) 
14  dusters. 


Nursery  linen  is  not  included  in  these  lists. 

Sheets  should  be  3  yards  long  and  two  breadths  wide  (if  they  are  not 
made  of  full  width  linen).  Some  persons  prefer  cotton  sheets  to  linen  on  ac- 
count of  their  superior  warmth ;  old  East  Indians  seldom  use  anything  but 
"  India  sheeting,"  as  it  is  called,  which  is  of  fine  twilled  cotton.  Linen 
sheets  last  longer,  and  are  fresh  and  cold  to  the  touch.  The  housemother 
should  have  both  in  her  possession,  as  it  is  possible  some  guest,  or  one  of  her 
family,  may  be  unable  to  sleep  on  linen,  from  delicate  health,  rheumatic 
affections,  etc.  Servants'  sheets  are  generally  of  cotton.  Sheets  should 
be  thoroughly  aired  the  day  they  come  from  the  laundress,  and  then 
folded  in  pairs  for  the  closet.  In  one  pile  should  be  placed  the  fine  linen 
sheets  ;  in  another  the  coarser  linen  ;  in  a  third,  the  cotton  ;  in  a  fourth, 
the  servants'.  The  sheets  should  be  lifted  up,  and  the  last  washed  sheets 
as  soon  as  aired  should  be  placed  at  the  bottom  of  each  pile.  Thus  each 
pair  will  be  fairly  worn  in  turn.  A  ticket  should  hang  from  the  shelf  con- 
taining a  list  of  the  sheets  on  it.  They  must  also  be  entered  in  the  linen 
book. 

Before  the  sheets  are  sent  to  the  wash  they  should  be  carefully  ex- 
amined, and  mended  if  they  require  repairs.  If  they  have  grown  thin  in 
the  middle  the  centre  seam  must  be  unripped  and  the  outside  seams  be 
turned  inwards  and  sewn  together ;  or  if  (as  is  now  usually  the  case)  the 
sheet  is  made  the  whole  width,  it  must  be  cut  very  carefully  and  evenly  by 
a  thread,  down  the  middle,  and  the  sides  joined  inwards.  In  both  cases 
the  outsides  must  be  neatly  hemmed.  When  they  are  again  worn  in  the 
centre  they  may  be  cut  across  the  length,  and  the  short  ends  sewn  together 
in  the  middle. 

A  sheet  quite  worn  out  for  the  bed  will  still  make  pillow-cases,  dusters, 
etc.  etc.,  and  the  pieces  will  be  of  use  for  cleaning  lamps,  candlesticks,  etc. 

Pillow-cases  may  be  made  quite  plain,  with  strings,  or  trimmed 
prettily  with  frills  or  lace.  Very  grand  pillows  are  sometimes  edged  with 
Valenciennes. 

Huckaback  towels  are  excellent  for  drying  the  skin,  and  produce  (by 
rubbing)  a  fine  glow.  The  unbleached  material  is  to  be  preferred,  and  it 
should  not  be  fine  but  thick  and  loose  in  texture.  It  is  about  So7,  the 
yard.     Eighteen  nails  is  the  length  for  a  towel. 

Russian  towelling,  called  by  drapers  "  crash,"  is  a  strong  material,  but 
narrow  in  width.     It  costs  about  $d.  a  yard. 

Towels  are  fringed  by  ravelling  out  a  little  of  the  edge,  and  loosely 

E  2 


52 


The  Linen  Press  or  Closet. 


sewing  over  the  threads  which  end  the  fringe.  Many  people  prefer  this 
mode  to  hemming  them. 

Bath  towels  can  be  purchased  the  full  size,  but  a  small  sheet  is  much 
more  comfortable  in  the  bath  room,  as  one  can  step  into  it  at  once,  and 
there  is  less  chance  of  chill  if  the  bath  is  a  hot  one  ;  but  for  ordinary  use 
it  is  enough  to  sew  two  ordinary  towel  widths  together.  It  is  a  good  plan 
if  it  can  be  managed  to  mark  every  room's  separate  towels. 

The  towels,  sorted  into  piles  of  fine,  coarse,  bath,  and  servants',  should 
occupy  a  shelf  with  a  ticket  attached  to  it  stating  the  number  of  towels 
on  it ;  they  should  be  aired  when  they  come  from  the  wash,  because  linen 
put  away  damp  is  sure  to  rot ;  and  when  aired  each  pile  should  be  lifted 
and  the  last  washed  towels  should  be  placed  at  the  bottom. 

Tablecloths  may  be  of  great  beauty,  or  merely  nice  and  useful.  A 
tablecloth  and  napkin  press  is  necessary  in  order  that  the  tablecloth  may 
be  kept  smooth  for  use. 

Tablecloths  and  table-napkins  should  be  examined  every  week  before 
they  are  sent  to  the  wash  and  all  thin  places  finely  darned  with  soft  cotton, 
every  other  thread  being  taken.  Any  stains  must  be  taken  out.  Table- 
cloths are  very  liable  to  accidental  stains  ;  port  wine  upset  on  them  is  one. 
When  such  an  accident  as  upsetting  port  or  claret  on  the  cloth  occurs,  in- 
stantly throw  some  salt  on  the  spot  and  pour  a  little  sherry  on  it.  Let  the 
servant  wash  it  the  moment  the  cloth  is  removed. 

Ironmoulds  can  be  taken  out  by  wetting  the  spot,  stretching  the  linen 
over  a  plate  placed  over  a  basin  of  boiling  water,  and  touching  the  place 
with  salts  of  lemon  ;  keeping  the  plate  very  hot.  As  soon  as  the  stain  is 
removed,  wash  in  a  good  deal  of  hot  water. 

To  take  out  stains  of  acids,  fruits,  etc.,  rub  the  place  each  side  with 
yellow  soap,  then  lay  on  a  paste  of  starch  made  with  cold  water,  rub  it  in, 
and  bleach  the  linen  in  the  sun  till  the  stain  comes  out.  Scorches  may  be 
removed  from  linen  by  spreading  over  them  the  following  mixture  : — Juice 
expressed  from  two  onions,  half  an  ounce  of  white  soap,  two  ounces  of 
fuller's  earth,  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar ;  mix  and  boil  well.  Let  it  get 
cold  before  using  it. 

Glass  cloths  must  be  of  thin  linen.  Both  these  and  the  coarse  brown 
towels  should  be  a  yard  long.-  Not  more  than  twelve  should  be  given  out  to 
the  servants  at  a  time,  and  the  mistress  of  the  family  should  inspect  them 
once  a  month,  to  see  that  they  are  well  kept.  There  is  nothing  in  which 
more  loss  and  waste  occurs,  than  in  kitchen  towels  unless  they  are  looked 
after  and  examined.  When  worn,  the  rags  should  be  produced,  as  careless 
servants  will  occasionally  throw  away  a  towel  rather  than  wash  it  if  it  is 
very  dirty — the  kitchen  servants  wash  the  coarse  towels  ;  the  housemaid 
washes  the  glass  cloths. 

Kitchen  tablecloths  are  generally  made  of  unbleached  cotton  diaper, 
but  huckaback  will  be  found  cheapest  in  the  end,  as  it  lasts  so  much 
longer. 

Dusters  may  be  made  of  old  sheets,  old  chintz,  or  any  remains  of  cot- 
Ion  dresses — they  are  best  of  cotton  ;  but  whether  of  new  material  or  old, 
they  should  be  hemmed. 

Pudding  cloths  should  be  squares  of  thick  new  Russia  sheeting.  For 
dumplings,  squares  knitted  in  coarse  cotton,  will  give  a  pretty  effect. 
These  also  should  only  be  given  out  in  certain  numbers,  and  the  old  ones 


Marking  Ink  for  Linen.  53 

shown  when  new  are  asked  for.  The  eye  of  the  mistress  should  often 
inspect  the  cleanliness  of  these  cloths. 

Fish  cloths  are  made  of  a  species  of  inferior  table-napkin.  Many- 
persons  now  prefer  the  embossed  bordered  fish  papers,  which  cost  no 
more  than  the  washing  of  the  fish  cloth,  and  look  pretty.  They  are  cer- 
tainly an  economy. 

Jelly  bags  are  made  of  a  half-handkerchief  shaped  piece  of  flannel, 
the  two  sides  sewn  together  strongly,  and  the  top  hemmed,  and  tape  loops 
put  to  it  to  hang  it  up  by,  or  it  is  in  a  frame  ;  but  if  a  small  outlay  does 
not  signify,  it  is  better  to  buy  a  jelly  bag. 

Scouring  flannels  should  be  strong  and  coarse,  the  edges  should  be  just 
caught  round  to  save  them  from  fraying  out. 

In  the  linen  press  or  closet  should  be  kept  needles,  cotton,  white  and 
black  thread,  (coarse  thread,  we  mean,  for  carpets,)  curtain  rings,  patent 
curtain  hooks  which  require  no  sewing  on  (they  are  in  the  fashion  of  the 
safety  pins  invented  by  the  Queen),  string,  binding,  etc.,  and  a  large  pair 
of  cutting-out  scissors.  These  articles  may  be  kept  in  a  large  brown 
holland  bag  suspended  from  a  nail  in  the  door ;  it  may  also  contain  a 
pencil  for  making  any  alterations  in  the  linen  lists. 

Linen  is  usually  marked  with  ink.  The  following  is  Mr.  Redwood's 
receipt  for  making  marking-ink  to  be  used  without  preparation  : — 

One  ounce  of  nitrate  of  silver,  one  and  a  half-ounce  of  best  washing 
soda,  three  drachms  of  tartaric  acid,  two  ounces  of  distilled  water,  six 
drachms  of  white  sugar,  ten  drachms  of  powdered  gum-arabic,  half  an 
ounce  of  archil  and  water. 

Dissolve  the  nitrate  of  silver  in  distilled  or  rain-water ;  distil  the  soda 
(separately)  in  rain-water.  Mix  the  solutions,  and  collect  the  precipitate  ; 
wash  it  in  a  filter.  Whilst  it  is  still  moist,  rub  it  in  a  mortar,  with  three 
drachms  of  tartaric  acid  ;  add  the  two  ounces  of  distilled  water.  Mix, 
and  add  the  white  sugar,  gum-arabic,  archil  and  water,  to  make  up  in 
all  six  ounces. 

The  cost  is  a  little  over  $s.,  but  the  quantity  makes  twenty-four  bottle- 
fuls  of  the  usual  or  Zd.  size.     Use  a  quill  pen,  and  expose  to  the  air. 

We  give  this  receipt  because  our  book  may  possibly  travel  where 
marking-ink  cannot  be  bought  ;  but  we  recommend  for  English  use  the 
purchased  ink  as  the  best.  That  which  requires  preparation,  and  the 
heat  of  a  hot  iron  after  it  is  used,  lasts  much  the  best.  We  speak  from 
experience.  We  give  an  excellent  receipt  for  one,  with  preparation,  long 
used  in  the  family  of  a  friend. 

Marking  Ink. 

One  drachm  and  a  half  of  lunar  caustic,  one  scruple  of  sap-green,  six 
drachms  of  water,  two  drachms  of  mucilage. 

The  Preparation. 

Half  an  ounce  of  subcarbonate  of  potash,  half  an  ounce  of  mucilage, 
half  an  ounce  of  water. 

This  preparation  is  to  be  applied  to  the  linen  with  a  brush  ;  when  it  is 
nearly  dry,  rub  smooth  with  the  bowl  of  a  spoon  and  write  on  the  spot 
with  the  ink. 


54 


Ornamentation. 


To  restore  Scorched  or  Discoloured  Linen. 

For  discoloured  linen  or  muslin,  grass  or  seaside  bleaching  is  always 
the  best ;  but  in  town,  mix  a  pound  of  bleaching-powder  with  six  quarts 
of  water,  and  put  a  portion  of  this  into  the  tub  where  the  articles  are  steep- 
ing. 

To  take  Stains  of  any  kind  out  of  Linen. 

Stains  caused  by  Acids. — Wet  the  part,  and  lay  on  it  some  salt  of 
wormwood.     Then  rub  it  without  diluting  it  with  more  water. 

When  white  linen  becomes  mildewed  it  should  be  washed  in  warm 
water,  with  a  little  borax,  and  then  rinsed  in  clean  water.  After  this,  it 
must  be  put  into  a  tub  of  water,  containing  a  little  hydrochloric  acid ;  then 
rinsed  and  dried  in  the  sun. 

To  take  Mildew  out  of  Linen. 

Wash  the  linen  well  in  warm  water  with  soap  ;  then  scrape  some 
chalk  very  fine  on  it,  and  lay  it  on  the  grass  in  the  sun  ;  as  it  dries,  wet  it 
a  little.     The  mildew  will  come  out  after  twice  doing  this. 

To  take  out  Fruit  Stains  with  Chloride  of  Soda. 

Wet  first  with  cold  soap  and  water,  touch  with  chloride  of  soda. 
Wash  again  immediately.     See  also  "  Laundry,"  and  its  receipts. 

ORNAMENTATION. 

The  taste  of  a  lady  is  shown  especially  in  the  ornamentation  of  her 
apartments. 

The  best  ornaments  (available  for  poor  as  well  as  rich)  are  flowers. 
They  will  enliven  the  dullest  room,  and  bring  nature  and  beauty  into  the 
heart  of  a  smoky  city. 

The  power  of  arranging  bouquets  with  taste  and  judgment  is  a  gift  not 
bestowed  on  everybody,  but  it  may  be  in  a  great  degree  acquired  by 
observation  and  care.  The  skilful  grouping  of  colours  is  first  to  be  con- 
sidered. Scarlet  and  white — i.e.  scarlet  geraniums  with  white  cloves  and 
jessamine — will  be  found  very  effective.  The  long  wavy  stems  of  the  jessa- 
mine greatly  relieving  the  flatness  of  the  other  flowers. 

Bouquets  composed  entirely  of  many-tinted  roses  are  wonderfully 
lovely.  A  straw  basket  filled  with  roses  and  lilies  {see  plate)  may  be  made 
a  most  charming  ornament ;  but  some  people  cannot  bear  the  strong  per- 
fume of  the  tall  lily — nor  even  that  of  lilies  of  the  valley. 

Bouquets  of  set  flowers,  as  zinnias,  carnations,  asters,  should  always 
have  the  centre  raised  with  thin  tapering  flowers— as  sweet-peas,  jessa- 
mine, clematis,  etc. 

A  china  bowl  filled  with  roses  is  very  pretty. 

Large  soup-plates,  or  dishes  filled  with  wet  sand,  will  hold  dahlia 
blossoms,  and  show  them  to  great  advantage.     There  are  also  tables 


/.    ////.v//////:^v/  Bouquet     3.    Ice  &.  Flower  Centre.         6.    Siiruu/  lloin/ori '. 

'JbrWnier.        '  '        '  ' 

'.' .    /•}■////  /{'■  Flowers.  I- .    Ring  of  Flowers.  7.     Rose  Basket. 

far  Sin/nun 

■  i .    Him/  of  Flowers. 


To  Ice  Evergreens.  55 


made  for  the  purpose  covered  with  a  wire  netting  which,  filled  with 
dahlias,  are  very  beautiful. 

A  majolica  vase,  large  enough  and  round  enough  to  be  filled  with 
earth,  may  be  planted  with  snowdrop  bulbs  round  the  edge,  and  filled  in 
the  centre  with  tulip-roots.  These  will  bloom  in  spring,  and  form  a 
charming  and  lasting  bouquet. 

Tiny  specimen  glasses  for  rare  flowers,  containing  a  single  magnolia,  a 
choice  rose,  or  new  geranium,  should  stand  about  on  the  tables. 

The  new  glass  half-rings  for  flowers  are  also  well  adapted  for  display- 
ing small  flowers,  such  as  yellow  primroses,  evening  primroses,  and  violets 
in  moss — all  being  put  into  wet  sand.  These  may  be  formed  into  patterns 
in  the  rings  {see  plate)  one  half-circle  of  violets,  the  next  of  snowdrops,  the 
next  of  yellow  primroses,  then  heartsease,  primulas,  or  nemophila.  The 
interstices  filled  in  with  any  rare  bits  of  green  and  brown  moss,  with  here 
and  there  a  few  scarlet  blossoms. 

In  winter  the  rings  may  be  filled  with  moss,  red  berries  of  holly,  hips 
or  haws,  and  the  yellow  and  white  immortelles,  Russian  violets,  and 
Christmas  roses.  They  may  be  also  arranged  to  look  like  a  twisted 
wreath  by  placing  them  in  curved  lines  {see  plate). 

Tulips  in  tiny  pots,  placed  in  moss  on  one  of  the  glass  stands  now 
sold  for  flowers,  are  pretty.  Overhanging  fern  leaves  give  a  grace  to  stiff 
bouquets,  and  are  indeed  always  beautiful. 

In  the  centre  of  the  annexed  plate  will  also  be  seen  a  pretty  orna- 
ment for  a  stand  in  summer.  It  is  a  glass  stand  with  a  deep  bowl-like 
bottom,  surrounded  by  a  rim  for  flowers.  In  the  bowl,  water-lilies  are 
laid  ;  on  the  second  glass-round,  which  is  nearly  flat,  other  plants  are 
placed  ;  on  the  flat  glass  top  is  placed  a  small  block  of  ice  crowned  with, 
and  surrounded  by,  violets.  As  the  heat  of  the  day  melts  the  ice,  it 
flows  down  on  the  flowers  on  the  stands  below,  and  gradually  floats  the 
water-lilies.  The  ice,  of  course,  must  be  in  exact  proportion  in  size  to  the 
water  which  the  lower  bowl  will  contain.  Placed  on  a  table  in  the  hall, 
this  bouquet  will  produce  a  delightful  freshness  of  the  air  round  it. 

For  a  winter  bouquet,  nothing  is  prettier  than  crystallized  twigs  and 
evergreens,  which  sparkle  in  the  light  like  diamonds. 

We  give  the  following  receipt  for  one  of  these  bouquets  : 

To  Ice  Evergreens. 

Dissolve  alum  by  boiling  in  hard-water,  in  proportion  of  a  pound  to  a 
quart.  Pour  it  into  a  deep  vessel,  and  as  it  cools  the  alum  will  be  preci- 
pitated. Choose  light  sprays,  and  hang  them  with  the  stems  upwards  on 
cords  stretched  across  the  top  of  the  vessel  so  that  they  do  not  touch 
the  bottom  ;  they  will  attract  the  alum  in  the  process  of  crystallization  like 
the  threads  in  sugar-candy.  The  warmer  the  solution  when  they  are  put  in 
the  smaller  will  be  the  crystals  attached  to  them,  but  care  must  be  taken 
that  it  be  not  hot  enough  to  destroy  the  leaves  or  fronds  ;  and,  if  there  be 
berries,  like  holly,  it  must  be  hardly  lukewarm.  The  same  solution 
warmed  again  will  do  two  or  three  bouquets. 


56  Domestic  Science. 


To  Frost  Leaves  and  Sprays. 

Purchase,  at  any  glass  manufactory;  a  few  pennyworths  of  powdered 
glass,  or  powder  some  pieces  of  broken  glass,  by  breaking  or  rolling  them 
yourself ;  but  beware  lest  any  chips  of  the  glass  get  into  your  eyes  (which 
should  be  covered  with  a  gauze  veil  to  protect  them  while  you  roll  and 
pound  the  glass) ;  dip  the  leaves  and  sprays  in  a  thin  gum-water  ;  then 
shake  the  powdered  glass  over  them  and  let  them  dry.  The  effect  is 
wonderful. 

To  make  Snownakes. 

Dip  pieces  of  cotton-wool,  the  size  of  snow-flakes,  into  weak  gum-water. 
Dust  them  over  with  glass-powder.  These  flakes  are  pretty  for  Christmas 
ornamentation  of  all  kinds. 

Flowers  should  be  gathered  early  in  the  morning,  but  not  till  the  dew 
is  nearly  dried  off  them.  They  should  be  placed  in  a  flat  basket,  or  on  a 
tray,  so  as  not  to  press  upon  and  crush  each  other,  and  they  should  be 
neatly  cut,  and  not  mangled  or  bruised.  When  thus  gathered,  they  should 
be  covered  with  a  sheet  of  paper,  and  immediately  conveyed  to  the  apart' 
ment  where  they  are  to  be  used,  if  that  apartment  be  near  at  hand.  But  if 
they  are  to  be  sent  to  any  distance,  they  should  be  placed  in  tin  cases, 
such  as  botanists  use  when  collecting  specimens. 


DOMESTIC  SCIENCE. 

We  believe  that  the  mother  of  a  family  might  derive  much  assistance 
in  her  domestic  rule,  and  might  be  a  gainer  in  many  ways,  did  she  possess 
a  knowledge  of  certain  natural  laws,  and  the  consequences  resulting  from 
either  violating  or  obeying  them.  It  is  surprising  how  little  scientific 
knowledge  is  possessed  by  women  ;  yet  it  is  most  essential  for  the  ruler  of 
a  small  kingdom  such  as  that  of  the  family,  to  know  the  various  awful 
powers  of  nature  which  affect  life,  health,  or,  at  the  very  least,  domestic 
comfort,  and  which  are  always  acting  in  the  midst  of  the  dear  circle  of  be- 
loved beings  to  whom  she  would  fain  be  as  a  guardian  angel.  It  is  terrible 
to  think  that  her  ignorant  love  may  be  actually  injuring  those  whom  she 
would  willingly  die  to  serve  ;  yet  such  is  too  often  the  case.  The  follow- 
ing pages  are  meant  to  explain  a  few  scientific  matters  which  ought  to  be 
known  to  everybody.  They  will,  we  trust,  be  of  service  in  showing  the 
reason  why  certain  things  should  be  done  or  avoided,  and  also  why  so 
many  circumstances  occur  to  mar  our  home  comfort  in  the  most  useless 
and  foolish  manner. 

Natural  laws  will  be  stated  in  plain  and  unscientific  language.  It  is 
hoped  that  the  subject  may  awaken  sufficient  interest  in  the  minds  of 
those  readers  to  whom  it  may  be  in  any  way  new,  to  induce  them  to  study 
natural  science  in  works  devoted  to  it. 

We  shall  begin  with  the  mighty  power,  without  which  our  life  itself 
would  cease. 


57 


HEAT. 

Heat  travels  with  light  from  the  sun,  but  it  can  be  produced  by  fric- 
tion— by  percussion — by  chemical  action— by  electrical  action — by  vital 
power.  "  Pouillet  has  carefully  ascertained,"  says  Professor  Pepper,  in  his 
admirable  "  Cyclopaedic  Science  Simplified,"  "  the  total  heating  effect  of 
the  sun's  rays  upon  the  earth  ;  and  estimating  the  whole  heating  power  of 
the  sun  as  2300  millions  of  parts,  he  calculates  that  less  than  one  of  those 
parts  only  reaches  our  earth,  and  yet  it  would  melt  a  layer  of  ice  thirty-five 
yards  thick  over  the  whole  surface  of  our  globe.  This  proportion  of  heat 
is  not  all  available  :  some  of  it  is  at  once  converted  into  power  by  setting 
the  air  in  motion,  to  create  the  winds  ;  another  portion  raises  the  water  of 
the  ocean  into  vapour,  which,  descending  in  the  form  of  rain  on  high 
levels,  such  as  the  mighty  water-shed  which  supplies  the  great  lakes  (dis- 
covered by  Speke  and  Grant  and  Sir  Samuel  Baker),  which  are  the  sources 
of  the  Nile,  flows  down  to  the  lowlands,  giving  rise  to  water  power,  which  is 
again  the  equivalent  for  heat.  Another  part  stimulates  and  increases  the 
growth  of  plants  ;  and  thus  in  ages  long  since  passed  away,  the  heat  of  the 
sun's  rays  was  not  all  lost,  as  the  elder  Stephenson  insisted,  but  was  stored 
up  ready  for  man  to  use  in  another  form — viz.,  coal.  It  was  therefore  called 
potential  heat.  The  plants,  being  the  food  of  animals,  again  contribute  to 
the  production  of  animal  heat  and  muscular  force.  The  sources  of  heat 
are  all  connected  with  motion  of  some  kind. 

"  Friction  is  a  notable  illustration,  and  it  was  by  causing  two  pieces 
of  ice  to  rub  one  against  the  other  that  Sir  Humphry  Davy  gene- 
rated  heat,  and  liquefied  the  ice.  Like  Dr.  Young,  who  proved  that  light 
could  turn  a  corner,  and  established  by  his  experiments  with  inflection  a 
sort  of  basis  upon  which  the  undulatory  theory  of  light  was  again  recon- 
structed, so  this  famous  experiment  of  Davy  supplied  a  great  fact,  and 
gave  the  first  blow  to  the  old  theory  which  said  that  the  ice  melted  because 
latent  heat  was  made  sensible  heat,  when  it  was  well  known  that  water  at 
a  temperature  of  320  Fahrenheit  contains  much  more  heat  than  ice  ;  how, 
then,  could  the  ice,  already  deficient  in  heat,  supply  enough  to  satisfy  the 
condition  of  water  ?  There  are  plenty  of  illustrations  of  the  generation  of 
heat  by  friction.  The  flint  and  steel ;  the  attrition  of  dried  wood,  as  used 
by  savage  tribes  ;  the  famous  experiments  of  Count  Rumford  whilst  boring 
cannon,  when  enough  heat  was  generated  in  two  hours  and  a  half  to  cause 
two  and  a  half  gallons  of  water  to  boil ;  the  friction  of  railway-wheel  axles, 
which  have  been  known  to  become  red  hot  and  to  set  fire  to  the  woodwork 
of  the  carriage.  In  North  America,  a  case  is  quoted  where  heat  was 
intentionally  generated  by  waste  water  power  and  used  for  heating  pur- 
poses, the  generator  being  two  flat  plates  of  iron  which  rubbed  against 
each  other. 

"  Percussion  .—It  was  said  formerly  that  metals  when  struck  with 
a  hammer,  or  with  a  die  in  the  coining-press,  became  hot  because  their 
density  was  increased,  and  therefore  their  capacity  or  containing  power  for 
heat  was  altered ;  but  it  is  clearly  shown  that  this  is  not  the  true  explana- 
tion. Lead,  for  instance,  which  becomes  hot  by  percussion,  does  not 
increase  in  density  and  yet  becomes  hot — so  hot  that  when  projected  from 


50  Domestic  Science. 


the  steam  gun,  in  the  form  of  bullets,  against  a  wrought-iron  target,  a  flash 
of  light  is  apparent  in  a  darkened  room.  The  heavy  shot  used  for  batter- 
ing iron  plates  always  becomes  very  hot  after  it  has  struck  the  plate. 

"Chemical  Action. — The  bringing  together  of  a  number  of  atoms, 
however  small,  the  clashing  together  (as  Tyndall  calls  it)  of  particles  to 
produce  new  compounds,  as  in  the  heating  and  combustion  of  finely  pow- 
dered antimony  when  it  is  brought  in  contact  with  chlorine  gas  ;  or  the 
heat  generated  by  combustion  or  from  other  chemical  changes,  are  all  to 
be  regarded  as  the  result  of  motion  which  the  eye  cannot  detect,  but  which 
must  occur  before  the  elements  come  in  contact,  combine,  and  form  new 
compounds.  There  are  many  chemical  changes  accelerated  by  motion, 
and  hence  the  stirring-rod  is  an  important  mechanical  means  to  secure  the 
more  rapid  union  of  particles. 

"  Electrical  action  is,  of  course,  circulation,  or  motion." 

Vital  power  is  heat  generated  by  chemical  action — it  is  very  slow 
combustion  ;  we  call  it  animal  heat,  without  the  presence  of  which  in  our 
bodies  life  would  cease.  This  heat  is  caused  (in  scientific  language)  by 
"the  combustion  or  burning  of  hydrogen  and  carbon  in  the  capillary 
vessels." 

The  capillary  vessels  are  vessels  as  small  as  hairs,  from  which  they 
take  their  name  :  Capillaris  is  a  Latin  word  meaning,  "  like  a  hair."  These 
vessels  run  all  over  the  body.  We  all  know  that  wherever  we  prick  or  cut 
ourselves,  blood  will  flow  ;  no  part  of  the  body  is  exempt  from  this  flow  of 
blood,  even  if  it  be  but  the  speck  covered  by  a  pin-prick.  The  blood  flows 
from  these  tiny  vessels.  The  blood  in  them  contains  hydrogen  gas  and  car- 
bon. By  breathing  we  inhale  (or  ought  to  inhale)  oxygen  gas  ;  this  gas  com- 
bines with  the  carbon  in  our  blood,  and  causes  combustion  or  heat  by 
forming  carbonic  acid  gas.  Thus  a  constant  fire  is  kept  up  within  the 
human  body  ;  if  it  failed  from  want  of  food  (which  makes  carbon),  or 
from  want  of  oxygen  (pure  air),  we  should  perish.  Animal  heat  is  not  very 
high,  not  hotter  than  90  or  104  degrees  ;  nevertheless,  it  slowly  consumes 
the  body  ;  every  muscle,  nerve,  organ  is  wasted  away  by  it,  and  has 
to  be  perpetually  renewed.  The  lamp  of  life  requires  to  be  constantly  fed, 
just  as  an  ordinary  lamp  requires  to  be  supplied  with  oil,  but  the  combus- 
tion in  the  former  case  (that  of  the  animal)  is  much  slower  than  in  the  case 
of  the  latter. 

Food  is  the  fuel  of  the  body  ;  when  it  is  not  supplied  the  capillary  fires 
consume  the  human  frame  itself,  while  substance  enough  remains  to  keep 
them  burning,  and  when  that  fails  they  expire.  Life  goes  also,  and  the 
man  is  said  to  be  starved  to  death. 

This  is  the  reason  that  want  of  food  causes  shrinking  of  the  body  ;  it 
is  an  actual  wasting  in  the  fire.  The  fat  of  the  body,  which  is  the  most 
combustible  part,  goes  first,  and  afterwards  the  muscles.  The  animal 
heat  expires,  and  death  comes  to  close  the  sufferings  of  starvation. 

The  air,  which  acts  so  important  a  part  in  generating  or  causing 
animal  heat,  is  composed  principally  of  two  gases,  called  oxygen  and  ni- 
trogen, unequally  mixed  ;  it  is  composed  of  about  one  gallon  of  oxygen  to 
four  of  nitrogen.  It  also  contains  small  quantities  of  vapour  of  water,  car- 
bonic acid,  and  ammonia.  The  word  "gas"  means  air,  but  the  atmosphere 
is  a  compound  of  two  gases,  as  we  have  said.  The  oxygen  in  the  air  sustains 
life  by  keeping  up  the   animal  heat,  and  giving  vitality  to  the    blood. 


Domestic  Science.  59 


We  breathe  it  in  (i.e.  inhale  it),  and  it  mingles  with  our  blood  in  the  lungs, 
which  it  turns  to  a  bright  red  colour.  Blood  before  the  oxygen  meets  it  is 
a  dark  purple. 

This  fact  accounts  for  the  pale  cheeks  and  lips  of  people  who  breathe 
impure  air,  or  air  not  quite  fresh.  Oxygen  is  the  purest  air  ;  if  there  is  not 
enough  in  our  share  of  the  atmosphere,  the  blood  cannot  turn  a  beautiful 
red  :  therefore,  dwellers  in  towns  where  the  allowance  of  oxygen  is 
small,  are  pale ;  country  folks  who  get  plenty  of  oxygen  are  rosy  and 
fresh-looking. 

The  reason  why  oxygen  turns  the  purple  blood  red,  is  this  : — The 
colouring  matter  of  the  blood  is  formed  of  very  minute  globules  floating  in 
it,  the  oxygen  uniting  with  the  coats  of  these  globules  makes  them  milky- 
looking,  and  the  dark  colouring  matter  seen  through  this  milky  tinge 
appears  of  a  bright  red. 

Oxygen,  as  we  have  said  before,  causes  combustion  or  heat  by  com- 
bining with  the  carbon  which  is  the  chief  element  in  the  blood,  and  thus 
sending  warmth  through  all  the  capillary  vessels.  We  swallow,  of  course, 
the  mixture  of  nitrogen  and  oxygen  of  which  the  air  is  composed  ;  but 
after  we  have  absorbed  the  oxygen  into  the  blood  in  the  lungs,  we  breathe 
back  carbonic  acid  which  mixes  with  the  air. 

Thus  the  air  breathed  in  houses  and  rooms  is  rendered  impure — that 
is,  full  of  carbonic  acid — and  requires  to  be  constantly  renewed  fresh 
from  the  outside  air  or  atmosphere.  The  reason  why  the  atmo- 
sphere or  whole  body  of  the  air  is  not  gradually  rendered  bad  by  human 
beings  thus  absorbing  the  oxygen,  is  because  the  under  surface  of  vege- 
table leaves  gives  out  oxygen  as  long  as  it  is  daylight,  and  thus  preserves 
the  due  proportion  of  oxygen  and  nitrogen  in  the  air.*  But  you  will  say, 
where  do  the  plants  get  this  oxygen  ?  Partly  from  the  atmosphere,  also  from 
the  earth  which  contains  carbonic  acid  gas — that  is,  carbon  and  oxygen 
mixed — derived  from  the  air  through  drops  of  rain.  From  the  decay  of 
vegetable  and  animal  matter,  and  from  the  stones,  which  are  full  of 
carbonic  acid  in  a  solid  state,  the  roots  of  trees  and  vegetables 
draw  up,  by  capillary  attraction,t  this  carbonic  acid  from  the  earth  into 
their  sap  ;  they  keep  for  themselves  (for  the  formation  of  wood)  the  car- 
bon, and  return  the  oxygen  from  the  under  surface  of  their  leaves  to  the 
atmosphere. 

Thus  God  has  made  animal  life  to  depend  on  vegetable  life  ;  for  unless 
the  plants  returned  to  the  air  enough  oxygen  to  supply  the  loss  caused  by 
our  consumption  of  it,  the  atmosphere  could  not  supply  us  with  the 
breath  of  life. 

But  if  we  are  so  much  indebted  to  the  vegetable  world,  it  also  is  de- 


*  The  great  currents  of  air  circulating  from  the  equator  to  the  poles,  and  from 
the  poles  to  the  equator,  also  preserve  the  purity  of  the  atmosphere,  and  keep  up 
life  by  supplying  the  plants  with  carbonic  acid  borne  from  fully  populated  regions, 
and  the  populated  regions  with  oxygen  from  the  plants  of  little-inhabited  lands. 
The  fall  of  rain  also  washes  impurities  from  the  atmosphere. 

+  Capillary  attraction  is  the  power  which  very  minute  tubes  possess  of  making  a 
liquid  rise  in  them  above  its  own  level.  The  smaller  the  tube  the  higher  the 
liquid  will  be  attracted  up  it, 


6o  Domestic  Science. 


pendent  upon  us.  The  plants,  as  we  have  said,  require  carbonic  acid  for 
their  nourishment ;  now  animals  all  exhale  carbonic  acid  into  the  air, 
and  thus  supply  the  plants  with  it,  in  return  for  the  oxygen  which  vegeta- 
tion gives  out.  Thus  all  things  are  linked  together  in  the  golden  chain  of 
reciprocal  benefits. 

This  carbonic  acid  gas  is  a  foe  to  animal  life  if  inhaled.  It  is  the  most 
deadly  of  poisons.  It  was  the  cause  of  the  death  of  the  British  prisoners 
in  the  Black  Hole  of  Calcutta  ;  as  choke-damp  it  causes  death  sometimes 
in  mines  or  deep  wells,  and  even  if  inhaled  slightly  in  the  impure  air  of 
a  heated  or  crowded  room  or  church,  it  is  dangerous  to  health.  It  is 
a  narcotic  poison,  and  its  presence  may  be  divined  by  a  sense  of  drowsi- 
ness and  lassitude.  We  have  said  much  about  it  already  in  our  former 
passages  on  Ventilation. 

No  fire  will  live  in  an  atmosphere  of  carbonic  acid  ;  therefore  candles 
let  down  into  wells  and  placed  in  suspected  rooms,  are  sure  tests  of  the  air. 
Where  a  candle  will  not  burn  a  man  cannot  live.  Fire  {i.e.,  combustion) 
depends,  you  remember,  on  the  union  of  carbon,  or  charcoal,  and  oxygen  ; 
if  there  is  no  oxygen  there  can  be  no  fire. 

You  will  perhaps  wonder  why  there  should  be  so  much  nitrogen  (or 
bad  air  as  we  call  it)  mixed  with  the  oxygen  of  the  atmosphere.  It  is 
meant  to  dilute  the  oxygen,  which  has  such  great  powers  of  combustion, 
that  if  it  were  not  thus  mixed,  and  weakened  or  diluted  with  nitrogen,  it 
would  quickly  exhaust  our  lives  by  burning  us  up  with  animal  heat. 

We  think  these  few  hints  will  show  the  mother  of  a  family  the  need  of 
keeping  the  air  of  her  house  pure  ;  and  the  benefit  of  "  green  leaves,"  which 
are  not  only  ornamental,  but  useful  in  feeding  the  flame  of  life,  Dear 
housemother,  let  your  little  ones,  if  you  live  in  a  town,  have  green  plants 
and  flowers  in  their  nurseries,  and  walk  in  the  parks  near  the  life-feeding 
trees. 

The  necessity  of  being  much  in  the  open  air  will  be  made  apparent  by 
these  facts. 

"  Recent  researches,  especially  those  of  Professor  Mantegazza,  com- 
municated during  the  year  to  the  Institute  of  Lombardy,  would  seem  to 
show  that  the  ancients,  after  all,  were  by  no  means  following  merely 
imaginative  or  superstitious  speculations  in  the  practice  they  adopted  of 
attempting,  by  the  free  use  of  odoriferous  substances,  to  guard  themselves 
against  the  attack  of  infectious  diseases.  This  subject  was  deemed  of 
sufficient  importance  to  be  referred  to  in  the  opening  remarks  of  the  pre- 
siding chairman  of  the  public  health  section  of  the  recent  British  Medical 
Association,  as  one  deserving  of  careful  study.  Whether  we  shall, 
however,  ever  recur  to  the  practice  of  Acron  of  Agrigentum,  and  other 
followers  of  Empedocles,  the  physicist,  who  not  only  used  aromatic  and 
balsamic  herbs  as  preventives  of  pestilence,  oftentimes  planting  them  in 
abundance,  for  that  purpose,  round  their  cities,  or  adopt  a  similar  course 
to  that  followed  in  a  plague  that  once  devastated  Italy,  when,  acting  on 
the  advice  of  the  faculty  of  the  day,  strangers  crowding  into  Rome  re- 
treated to  Lauretum,  now  San  Lorenzo,  that  by  a  cooler  atmosphere  and 
by  the  odour  of  laurel  they  might  escape  the  chance  of  infection,  we 
cannot  pretend  to  say.  But  it  would  really  seem  that  we  may,  with  in- 
creased confidence,  rely  upon  our  camphor  bags,  our  lavender  bundles, 
and  the  like,  for  Mantegazza  says  that  in  the  oxidation  of  the  essences  ot 


Domestic  Science.  61 


odoriferous  plants  a  large  quantity  of  ozone*  is  evolved,  at  least  as  much 
as  is  generated  by  electricity  or  phosphorus  ;  the  ozone  being  developed 
by  the  direct  action  of  the  sun's  rays,  and  in  some  cases,  whilst  this  com- 
mences in  solar  light,  it  continues  in  the  dark.  The  plants  -which  give 
ozone  most  readily  are  cherry-laurel,  clove,  and  lavender,  among  herbs ;  the 
narcissus,  hyacinth,  and  mignonette,  and  amongst  perfumes  eau-de- 
Cologne,  oil  of  bergamot,  and  certain  aromatic  tinctures.  The  cultiva- 
tion of  herbs  and  odorous  flowers  '  in  marshy  districts  and  in  places 
infected  with  animal  emanations/  is  the  advice  which  Mantegazza  gives 
to  those  who  pin  any  faith  to  his  experiments.  Verily,  if  Apollo  the 
Healer,  by  his  life-inspiring  and  health-restoring  ways,  can  draw  from  the 
fairest  flowers  of  nature  so  mysterious  and  yet  so  mighty  a  purifier,  there 
is  hope  for  the  slums  and  pest-stricken  nooks  of  our  towns  and  cities,  and 
so  grateful  and  attractive  a  mode  of  disinfection  will  surely  soon  become 
universal." 

We  cannot  leave  the  subject  of  air  without  pointing  out  the  danger 
of  a  charcoal  fire. — Charcoal  is  carbon  ;  when  burning,  it  readily  unites 


*  Ozone. — Although  oxygen  has  never  been  changed  from  the  gaseous  state 
to  a  liquid  or  solid  condition,  it  seems  to  be  capable  of  assuming  a  peculiar  con- 
densed form  called  Ozone, — a  word  taken  from  the  Greek  o£w,  to  give  out  an 
odour. 

MM.  de  Babo,  Claus,  and  Soret  all  maintain  that  ozone  is  oxygen  denser  than 
common  oxygen  gas.  The  latter  philosopher  especially  declared  that  ozone  as  a 
molecule  consisted  of  three  atoms  of  oxygen,  and  he  therefore  called  it  binoxide  of 
oxygen.  M.  Soret,  in  continuation  of  his  researches  on  the  density  of  ozone,  and 
employing  the  absorptive  powers  of  essences  of  turpentine  and  cinnamon,  has  come 
to  the  conclusion  that  the  density  of  ozone  is  I  \  times  that  of  oxygen.  Other  learned 
chemists  appear  to  concur  in  this  opinion. 

Ozone  is  produced  in  various  ways. 

1.  By  passing  a  series  of  electrical  discharges — silent  ones — through  dry  oxygen 
gas  ;  the  latter  diminishes  in  bulk  to  the  extent  of  one-twelfth,  showing  condensa- 
tion ;  and  if  subsequently  heated  to  a  temperature  of  5500  F.,  recovers  its  former 
bulk  and  loses  its  peculiar  ozone  qualities.  The  reason  the  electrical  discharge 
should  be  a  silent  one  is  because  the  electrical  spark  produces  too  much  heat, 
which  destroys  a  considerable  portion  of  the  ozone,  and  thus  prevents  any  con- 
siderable accumulation. 

2.  This  peculiar  condition  of  oxygen  is  obtained  by  acting  either  on  potassium 
permanganate,  or  upon  baric  dioxide  with  strong  sulphuric  acid. 

3.  A  stick  of  phosphorus  scraped  clean  under  water,  and  then  exposed  in  a 
bottle  containing  moist  air,  produces  ozone. 

4.  When  water  is  decomposed  in  the  apparatus  called  a  voltameter,  the  mixed 
gases  give  the  peculiar  odour,  and  are  found  to  contain  a  certain  quantity  of 
ozone. 

It  is  known  that  sea-air  contains  ozone,  whilst  the  same  air,  having  passed 
over  or  through  a  town,  is  supposed  to  be  deprived  in  a  great  degree  of  this  agent, 
which  is  considered  to  have  purifying  and  health-giving  powers.  The  absence  of 
ozone  from  the  air  is  said  to  be  prejudicial  to  health,  and  during  the  prevalence  of 
cholera  it  was  thought  to  be  due  in  some  degree  to  the  absence  of  this  condition  of 
oxygen. 

Ozone  was  first  discovered  by  Van  Marum  in  1785  ;  but  it  was  not  till 
Schonbein  experimented  upon  it,  in  1840,  that  it  received  its  name. 


62  Domestic  Science. 


with  the  oxygen  of  the  air  and  forms  the  deadly  carbonic  acid.  If  a 
charcoal  fire  be  shut  into  a  bedroom,  it  will  deposit  this  poisonous  gas  at 
the  bottom  of  the  room,  and  as  all  gases  diffuse  themselves  through  each 
other — just  as  wine  will  through  water — it  will  gradually  permeate  the  air 
of  the  chamber,  and  a  person  sleeping  in  it  for  six  hours  would  probably 
never  wake  again.     He  would  be  suffocated. 

We  must  guard  carefully  in  our  houses  against  the  presence  of  this 
insidious  foe.  As  the  breath  of  animals,  and  combustion  of  any  kind 
create  it,  we  should  frequently  renew  the  air,  by  letting  the  carbonic  gas 
escape  from  our  rooms  and  admitting  the  fresh  out-door  atmosphere.  The 
decay  of  animal  or  vegetable  matter  causes  it  also.  Our  dust  bins  there- 
fore require  attention  ;  the  contents  should  not  be  let  accumulate,  or  if 
they  cannot  be  frequently  cleared  out,  fresh  slaked  lime  must  be  thrown 
into  them,  which  will  absorb  the  carbonic  acid,  and  render  it  harmless. 

As  oxygen  creates  the  animal  heat  which  is  life,  but  which  also 
consumes  the  body,  it  follows  that  very  pure  air  by  increasing  combustion 
will  create  appetite — hunger  being  the  craving  of  the  human  frame  for 
fuel  to  supply  the  hourly  consumption.  Therefore  good  air  will  give  a  good 
appetite.  Exercise,  also,  increases  animal  heat,  by  causing  man  to  con- 
sume more  oxygen  than  when  he  is  still  and  sedentary,  for  in  exercise  the 
respiration  is  quicker,  and  more  air  is  inhaled.  The  heat  in  the  capillary 
vessels  is  acted  on  by  running,  jumping,  etc.,  as  a  fire  is  by  a  pair  of 
bellows. 

Hard  work,  reading  aloud,  singing — all  increase  combustion  by  intro- 
ducing a  larger  amount  of  oxygen  into  the  lungs,  and  cause  the  persons 
working,  reading,  or  singing,  to  require  food  to  sustain  the  waste  of  the 
frame. 

In  sleep  we  breathe  more  slowly  than  when  awake,  consequently  we  re- 
quire no  food  during  the  hours  of  the  night  (if  we  slumber),  for  less  oxygen  is 
introduced  into  the  lungs,  and  our  food-fuel  consumes  slowly  till  we 
wake. 

Want  of  exercise  and  over-feeding  produce  over-fat  and  ill-health,  be- 
cause more  hydrogen  and  carbon  are  taken  into  the  blood  than  can  be 
consumed  by  respiration.  These,  therefore — remaining  unburnt  up — turn 
to  superfluous  fat,  or  cause  disease. 

In  cold  weather  flesh-food  and  fatty  matters  are  required,  because 
they  contain  more  carbon  and  hydrogen,  which  when  burned  in  the 
blood  produce  a  larger  amount  of  heat  than  any  other  kind  of  food. 
Hence  the  inhabitants  of  the  Arctic  regions  eat  train  oil,  whale  blubber, 
etc.  And  in  winter  it  is  well  to  supply  a  fuller  meat  and  fattier  diet  than 
in  summer  heat.  In  cold  weather  more  food  is  required,  to  keep  up  the 
animal  heat,  because  the  air  contains  more  oxygen  than  in  warm  weather, 
and  therefore  burns  up  the  food  more  fiercely  ;  besides  which  we  are 
generally  more  active  and  our  faster  respiration  fans  the  heat  in  the  blood 
and  consumes  the  fuel  faster. 

In  summer  we  naturally  dislike  animal  food,  because  the  carbon  and 
hydrogen  in  it  make  us  too  hot ; — we  prefer  fruit  and  vegetables,  for 
they  contain  less  carbon  and  hydrogen  than  meat,  and  also  a  very  large 
amount  of  water,  and  therefore  produce  less  blood,  and  are  not  of  so  com- 
bustible a  nature.  On  this  account  the  natives  of  tropical  climates,  by 
a  wise  instinct,  live  on  rice  and  fruit  or  vegetables. 


The  Thermometer.  63 


The  frequent  use  of  baths  tends  to  improve  health  and  appetite  in 
consequence  of  their  freeing  the  pores  of  the  body  from  obstruction,  and 
thus  promoting  combustion.  Ventilation,  also,  increases  combustion  by 
means  of  the  introduction  of  more  oxygen  to  the  house.  Therefore  the 
badly-fed  poor  are  instinctively  averse  to  washing  and  to  pure  air,  both  of 
which  increase  hunger  by  diminishing  warmth. 

The  cold-blooded  animals — frogs,  fishes,  snails,  lizards,  etc. — have  cold 
blood  because  they  consume  very  little  air  ;  without  a  plentiful  inhaling  of 
which  combustion  is  slow  and  animal  heat  small. 

But  while  carbonic  acid,  when  inhaled,  is  so  injurious,  it  is,  in  creation, 
an  agent  of  great  good.  In  water  it  is  beneficial  to  us  ;  vegetation  would 
perish  without  it,  and  chalk  could  not  be  formed  without  carbonic  acid. 
There  is  nothing  in  nature  which  does  not  in  some  way  tend  to  good. 

"When  we  consume  wood  and  coal  in  our  fires,  or  bread  and  wine  in 
our  bodies,"  says  Dr.  Odling,  "  we  merely  effect  a  combination  whereby 
their  potential  is  converted  into  actual  energy  ;  this  potential  energy* 
having  been  stored  up  in  them  at  the  period  of  their  formation,  this  energy 
being,  in  fact,  the  robbing  of  the  sun's  rays,  and  the  storing  up  the  heat  of 
these  rays  in  these  articles  of  fire  fuel.  Under  the  action  of  the  sun's 
rays  the  decomposition  is  effected  of  the  carbonic  acid  and  water  into 
oxygen  gas  restored  to  the  atmosphere,  and  of  carbon-hydrogen,  which  is 
accumulated  in  the  vegetable  tissue.  When  we  burn  these  tissues  in  our 
fires  or  bodies,  we  are  simply  restoring,  in  the  form  of  actual  energy,  the 
potential  heat  of  the  sun's  rays  or  its  mechanical  equivalent.  We  have  all 
read  of  the  Bourgeois  Gentilhomme  who  had  been  talking  prose  all  his  life 
without  knowing  it.  We  have  all  our  lives,  and  some  of  us  without  know- 
ing it,  been  realizing  that  celebrated  problem  of  extracting  sunbeams  from 
cucumbers." 

This  mighty  agent  of  Life  possesses  also  tremendous  power  in  other 
respects.  In  can  overcome  the  power  of  cohesion — that  is,  the  attraction 
which  by  drawing  particles  of  matter  together  makes  bodies  solid.  Heat  will 
rend  these  atoms  asunder  and  change  solids  into  liquids,  liquids  into 
vapour,  and  expand  even  the  air  itself,  and  the  fine  gases  to  a  marvellous 
extent.  We  are  all  aware  how  heat  expands  our  bodies  in  hot  summer 
weather  ;  how  furniture  expands  in  the  day,  and  contracting  at  night  by 
the  colder  atmosphere,  makes  night  hideous  to  a  wakeful  person  by  divers 
mysterious  cracks  and  sounds  which  have  no  apparent  cause.  It  is  the 
expansion  of  heat  which  bursts  a  roasting  chestnut  if  an  opening  has  not 
been  made  in  the  skin  or  shell,  and  which  causes  breakages  of  glass  and 
china  from  hot  water  being  poured  into  them. 

Liquids  expand  still  more  readily  with  heat — some  fluids  expand  more 
than  others. 

THE    THERMOMETER. 

The  expansion  of  liquids  by  heat  has  been  used  in  the  formation  of 
the  Thermometer,  or  heat  (thermo)  measure  (meter). 

Quicksilver,  though  a  solid  metal  at  the  North  Pole,  is  a  liquid,  and 
can  be  poured  out  like  water  in  our  climate.  It  is  nearly  fourteen  times 
as  heavy  as  water. 

*  Potential  energy  used  to  be  called  "  latent  heat." 


64 


The  Thermometer. 


It  is  used  for  thermometers  instead  of  spirits  of  wine,  because  it  bears  a 
greater  degree  of  heat  before  it  boils.  The  instrument  is  made  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner  : — 

A  glass  tube  with  a  small  bore,  sufficiently  so  to  be  capillary,  is  selected 
with  care,  in  order  to  secure  the  same  diameter  throughout.  The  bores  of 
some  tubes  are  like  an  elongated  cone,  and,  if  they 
were  used,  the  mercury  would  expand  much  more 
in  some  parts  of  the  tube  than  in  others,  and  hence 
the  indications  of  such  a  thermometer  would  be  in- 
correct. A  little  mercury,  amounting  to  an  inch  in 
length,  is  allowed  to  enter  the  tube,  and  being 
moved  from  one  end  of  the  tube  to  the  other,  it  is 
soon  discovered  whether  the  mercury  increases  or 
decreases  in  length,  or  remains,  as  is  usually  the 
case,  of  the  same  linear  dimensions  in  all  parts. 
The  proper  length  having  been  cut  off,  one  end  is 
melted  and  blown  out  into  a  bulb,  the  other  being 
formed  into  a  cup  or  funnel-shaped  form,  to  hold 
the  mercury,  which  is  forced  in ;  the  tube  is  now 
inclined  slightly,  and  the  air  in  the  bulb  expanded 
by  heat ;  it  is  afterwards  allowed  to  cool,  and,  as 
the  air  cools  and  contracts,  the  mercury  from  the 
upper  funnel  is  forced  in  by  the  pressure  of  the  air, 
and  enters  to  supply  the  place  of  the  air  driven  out 
by  expansion.  To  get  rid  of  the  rest  of  the  air,  the 
mercury  is  alternately  boiled  and  cooled  until  the 
bulb  and  part  of  the  tube  are  full  of  mercury. 

Having  thus  filled  the  bulb  and  one-third  of  the 
tube,  the  next  step  is  to  seal  it  hermetically,  which 
is  done  by  heating  the  mercury  to  the  boiling-point, 
and  at  the  moment  the  mercury  is  overflowing  at  the 
summit  the  glass  is  fused  with  a  flame,  urged  by  a 
blow-pipe  before  the  mercury  has  had  time  to  contract ;  and  if  this  opera- 
tion has  been  skilfully  performed,  a  perfectly  void  space  or  vacuum,  free 
from  air.,  is  obtained  as  the  mercury  sinks  or  contracts  in  the  bulb  and 
tube. 

The  marks  on  the  thermometer  are  made  by  means  of  melting  ice  and 
boiling  water.  Ice  always  melts  at  the  same  temperature,  and  pure  water 
invariably  boils  at  the  same  temperature,  when  the  barometer  stands  at 
29*8  in. 

It  is  only  necessary  to  immerse  the  thermometer  alternately  in  melting 
ice  and  in  boiling  water,  with  certain  precautions,  and  to  mark  the  point 
at  which  the  mercurial  column  stands — one  being  called  the  freezing-point, 
and  the  other  the  boiling-point. 

The  instrument  must  be  immersed  in  the  melting  ice  until  the  mercury 
becomes  perfectly  stationary.  The  immersion  in  boiling  water  requires 
the  greatest  care,  and  a  time  should  be  selected  when  the  barometer  stands 
at  29*8  or  30  inches.  The  depth  of  the  water  in  the  vessel  should  not  ex- 
ceed two  inches.  The  vessel  must  not  be  a  shallow  one,  but  sufficiently 
deep  to  contain  the  bulb  and  nearly  all  that  part  of  the  tube  up  which  the 
mercury  will  rise.    When  placed  in  boiling  water,  distilled  water  should  be 


The  Thermometer. 


65 


used,  and  brisk  ebullition  maintained,  and  the  steam  allowed  to  escape 
freely,  as  the  confinement  of  it  would  raise  the  temperature  above  that  of 
boiling  water. 

The  place  at  which  the  scale  is  marked  32°,  is  called  freezing-point 
The  boiling-point  is  marked  z\i\ 


F.  signifies  Fahrenheit's,  or  the  English  scale. 
C.  signifies  the  Centigrade,  or  French  scale. 

212°.   Water  boils. 

190°.   Brandy  boils. 
1 740.  Spirits  of  Wine  boil. 


1 2 70.  Tallow  melts. 
io°.   Summer  in  East  Indies. 


go      ji  Very  hot  in  England. 

\  Common  heat  in  East  Indies. 
75°.   Summer  heat  in  England. 

55°.  Temperate  in  England. 

50°.   Common  heat  of  spring-water. 

430.   Olive  oil  begins  to  stiffen. 

3 2°.  Water  freezes. 

200.  Very  cold  in  England. 

5°.  Winter  in  Canada. 

In  Iceland,  the  cold  is  sometimes  240  below  o. 

At  400  below  O)  quicksilver  freezes. 


pa 


a/Bfi 


4^J 


-.10 


In  England  the  interval,  according  to  Fahrenheit,  is  divided  into  180 
parts,  the  zero  being  320  below  the  freezing-point.  On  the  Continent,  the 
interval  is  divided  by  Celsius*into  100  pans,  and  is  called  the  Centigrade 


66  Communication  of  Heat. 


scale, — the  zero  commences  with  the  freezing-point ;  sometimes  into  80 
parts,  called  Reaumur's  scale,  the  zero,  as  before,  being  the  freezing-point 
of  water.  Of  the  three,  that  of  Celsius  is  the  most  simple,  and  will  be 
gradually  adopted  throughout  the  civilized  world.  Fahrenheit's  scale 
expresses  slight  variations  of  temperature  better,  therefore  it  is  preferable  ; 
the  degrees  on  the  "  Centigrade  »  being  too  large  to  express  minute  diffe- 
rences. 

COMMUNICATION    OF    HEAT. 

Heat  is  communicated  from  one  body  to  another  by  Conduction, 
Absorption,  Reflection,  Radiation,  and  Convection. 

Conduction  means  the  communication  of  heat  from  one  body  to 
another  by  contact.  Some  bodies  conduct  heat  well ;  others  are  bad  con- 
ductors. The  best  are  the  metals — lead  being  inferior  to  the  rest.  Light 
and  porous  bodies  are  bad  conductors  of  heat,  as  hair,  fur,  wool,  eider- 
down, cotton,  wood,  air,  water,  and  snow.  Our  readers  will  see  in  these 
facts  the  scientific  reason  for  many  of  our  ordinary  practices.  Everything 
which  conducts  heat/;vw  us,  must  necessarily  render  us  colder  ;  bad  con- 
ductors on  the  contrary  keep  us  warm,  because  they  do  not  rob  us  of  our 
warmth  to  transfer  it  to  other  objects.  Therefore,  in  winter,  when  we 
desire  to  keep  as  much  heat  to  ourselves  as  we  can,  we  dress  in  woollens 
and  furs,  because  wool  and  fur  are  bad  conductors,  and  will  not  suffer  the 
warmth  of  our  body  to  be  drawn  off  by  the  cold  air.  Wool  and  fur  do  not 
give  out  warmth  to  us  from  themselves,  they  simply  preserve  our  own 
natural  heat  from  escaping  into  the  air,  which  would  otherwise  gradually 
draw  it  away  from  us  till  both  it  and  our  body  were  of  the  same  tempe- 
rature. For  this  reason  God  has  clothed  his  dumb  creatures  with  hair  and 
wool,  down  and  feathers,  which,  being  bad  conductors,  serve  to  keep 
them  warm.  Fur,  hair,  and  feathers  are  bad  conductors  of  heat  because 
the  air  (which  is  happily  also  a  very  bad  conductor)  gets  amongst  their 
fibres,  and  thus  in  a  manner  defends  the  creatures  covered  by  them  from 
itself.  It  may  be  asked,  why,  if  the  air  be  a  bad  conductor  of  heat,  it 
should  deprive  any  part  of  our  bodies  exposed  to  it  of  warmth,  and  make 
us  require  clothing  ?  The  reason  is  that  the  air  is  ever  moving  and  chang- 
ing ;  the  particles  which  pass  over  our  skin  deprive  us  of  but  a  small 
amount  of  heat  at  a  time,  but  they  move  off,  and  fresh  cold  ones  instantly 
supply  their  place,  and  thus  we  are  continually  warming  fresh  particles  of 
air,  to  our  own  loss  of  temperature. 

The  act  of  warming  particles  of  air  by  conveying  to  them  our  own 
heat,  and  thus  growing  colder  ourselves,  is  the  reason  why  a  fan  or  punkah 
is  a  relief  in  warm  weather.  By  agitating  the  air,  we  constantly  bring 
fresh  cold  particles  to  be  warmed  by  us,  and  thus  bestow  on  them  our 
superfluous  warmth  and  become  ourselves  cooler. 

We  said  just  now  that  happily  air  is  a  bad  conductor  of  heat.  If  it 
were  as  good  a  conductor  as  metal,  it  would  draw  the  heat  from  our  body 
so  quickly,  that  we  should  die  of  cold.  Hot  air  too  would  parch  and  burn 
us  up  if  it  conducted  heat  as  metal  does,  but  fortunately  it  conveys  heat 
to  us  as  slowly  as  it  takes  it  away. 

The  earth  is  also  a  bad  conductor  of  heat  ;  the  surface  may  be 
scorched,  but  intense  heat  cannot  reach  the  roots  of  the  trees,  neither 


Communication  of  Heai.  6) 


can  cold,  in  the  shape  of  frost,  penetrate  more  than  a  few  inches  beneath 
the  surface.  Creative  wisdom  is  shown  in  this,  for  if  the  earth  were  a 
good  conductor,  vegetation  would  perish ;  springs  of  water  would  be  dried 
up  in  summer  by  heat,  and  in  winter  frozen  hard. 

The  kettle-holder  made  of  wool,  the  pieces  of  ivory  which  break  the 
metallic  communication  between  the  good-conducting  silver  teapot  and  it? 
handle,  and  the  soot — charcoal — covering  the  bottom  of  a  kettle,  which 
allows  the  vessel  to  be  taken  direct  from  the  fire  and  held,  though  full  ot 
boiling  water,  are  good  and  familiar  examples  of  the  application  of  bad 
conductors. 

Snow  is  a  very  bad  conductor.  Its  protecting  veil  consequently  defends 
vegetation  from  cold  and  frost,  by  keeping  in  the  warmth  of  the  earth. 

The  earth  also  is  a  bad  conductor ;  for  this  reason,  the  water  of  a 
spring  is  cool  in  the  hottest  weather. 

The  reason  that  the  earth  is  a  bad  conductor  is  that  its  particles  are  not 
continuous.     Heat  is  conducted  best  by  continuity  of  matter. 

Linen  is  a  good  conductor  of  heat ;  it  therefore  draws  the  animal 
warmth  off  rapidly,  and  produces  a  sensation  of  chill.  Cotton  is  warmer 
wear,  because  it  is  not  so  good  a  conductor  as  linen.  Silk  is  warm  wear 
also,  because  it  is  a  bad  conductor ;  raw  silk,  a  very  bad  conductor,  is 
even  a  warmer  clothing  than  wool. 

The  metals  are  excellent  conductors  of  heat.  The  iron  of  stoves  con- 
ducts the  heat  of  the  fire  to  the  air,  and  thus  warms  a  room.  Our  readers 
are,  doubtless,  aware  how  hot  the  handle  of  a  metal  teapot  will  become 
from  the  same  reason. 

The  absorption  of  heat  means  the  sucking  in  instead  of  diffusing  it. 
Every  good  conductor  of  heat  is  therefore  a  bad  absorber  of  it. 

The  power  of  absorbing  heat  depends  on  the  nature  of  the  surface  of  a 
body  ;  bright  and  polished  surfaces  will  not  absorb  heat  as  well  as  black 
or  rough  ones  do.  This  is  the  reason  why  a  kettle,  the  bottom  and  back 
of  which  are  covered  with  soot,  boils  much  quicker  than  a  bright  new  one 
would — for  polished  metal  reflects  heat  instead  of  absorbing  it ;  and  on 
this  account  brilliant  tin  reflectors,  such  as  plate-warmers,  or  meat-screens, 
are  used. 

"  The  absorptive  power,"  says  Professor  Pepper, "  was  supposed  to  de- 
pend greatly  upon  the  particular  colour  used.  Franklin  placed  pieces  of 
coloured  cloth  in  the  sun's  rays  on  the  snow,  and  found  they  sank  into  the 
snow  or  melted  it  in  the  following  order — black,  blue,  green,  purple,  red, 
yellow,  white.  Tyndall,  however,  has  explained  the  cause  more  correctly, 
and  has  discovered  that  the  colour  has  not  so  much  to  do  with  the  effect  pro- 
duced as  the  nature  of  the  material  used  for  the  colouring  agent.  Although 
it  has  been  stated  by  Leslie  that  white  surfaces  generally  reflect  heat  well, 
and  absorb  it  indifferently,  there  is  the  curious  fact,  ascertained  by  Mel- 
loni,  that  white  lead  has  quite  as  great  an  absorbent  power  as  lampblack ; 
and  if  the  heat  comes  from  boiling  water  it  will  absorb  twice  as  much  as 
it  would  do  if  it  came  from  an  incandescent  platinum  wire." 

Nevertheless  colours  undoubtedly  do  affect  the  heat  or  coolness  of  our 
dress.  We  think  everybody  will  allow  that  a  black  dress  in  summer  is 
much  warmer  than  a  white  one,  irrespective  of  its  effect  on  the  sight,  to 
which  colours  appear  certainly  either  warm  or  cool.  Every  one  is  sensible 
of  the  heat  and  glare  of  scarlet,  and  of  the  coolness  of  green  and  blue  to 
his  eye  in  the  furniture  of  rooms  or  in  dress. 


68  Communication  of  Heat. 


Professor  Pepper  adds,  "Leslie's  principle  does  apply  to  clothing, 
and  it  appears  that  if  we  imitate  nature,  and,  like  the  Polar  bear,  wear 
white,  we  shall  be  warmer  in  winter  and  cooler  in  summer." 

The  power  of  black  to  absorb  heat  was  tested  by  a  friend  of  our  own, 
in  his  fruit  garden.  He  had  the  wall  behind  an  apricot  tree  painted  black 
for  one  half  of  the  tree,  leaving  the  other  side  of  unpainted  bricks.  The 
apricots  on  the  black  side  were  ripe  before  the  others. 

Reflection  of  heat  is  heat  thrown  back  from  polished  and  bright 
surfaces ;  as  from  a  meat-screen  ;  but  if  the  screen  be  scratched,  painted, 
or  dull,  it  will  not  reflect  or  cast  back  the  heat  it  receives  from  the  fire. 
Polished  boots  are  cooler  than  dusty  ones  from  the  same  cause  ;  a  dusty 
boot  absorbs  heat. 

Polished  metals  will  conduct  heat  by  contact.  If  a  bright  steel  poker 
be  kept  in  a  hot  fire,  it  will  conduct  heat ;  if  it  were  lying  in  the  fender,  it 
would  reflect  it. 

Heat  is  radiated  from  one  body  to  another  when  a  non-conducting 
medium  separates  them.  A  fire  radiates  heat,  the  burning  fuel  emitting 
rays  which  warm  us  when  near  them.  Dull  and  dark  substances  are 
radiators  :  light  and  polished  substances  radiate  badly  ;  therefore  stoves 
are  cleaned  with  blacklead,  which  radiates  heat  better  than  any  other 
known  object. 

Bodies  which  are  bad  radiators  preserve  the  heat  within  them.  Polished 
metal  is  a  bad  radiator,  therefore  teapots  are  made  of  it,  because  as  it 
does  not  radiate  well,  it  keeps  the  heat  of  the  tea  in.  Polished  metal  also 
keeps  cold  in  it.  Hot  water  will  keep  hot  longest  in  a  metal  jug,  and  cold 
water  (in  hot  weather)  will  keep  cold  longer  in  one.  This  fact  accounts 
for  the  use  of  tin  cans  and  jugs  for  bringing  hot  water  to  bedrooms. 
Very  brightly  polished  dish-covers  being  bad  radiators,  do  not  suffer  the 
heat  of  dishes  to  escape  by  radiation,  but  as  polish  is  essential  for  non- 
radiation,  the  same  covers  if  suffered  to  become  dull,  scratched,  or  dirty, 
will  only  badly  fulfil  the  purpose  for  which  they  are  designed. 

Convection  of  heat,  means  heat  communicated  by  being  carried  to 
another  thing,  or  place.     Water  is  made  hot  by  convection. 

Air  also  (being  like  water,  a  bad  conductor)  is  heated  by  convection. 

Water  and  air  both  ascend  when  heated.  The  water  at  the  bottom  of 
a  pot  or  boiler,  and  the  air  nearest  to  the  fire,  will  both  become  hot  first 
and  then  rise.  The  colder  water  or  air  above  then  descends,  but  when 
heated  ascends  in  its  turn  ;  thus  the  whole  air  in  a  room,  or  the  whole 
body  of  water  in  a  vessel  is  gradually  heated  by  convection. 

The  general  atmosphere  is  also  heated  by  convection.  The  sun  (which 
does  not  heat  the  air)  heats  the  earth  ;  the  earth  heats  the  air  resting  on 
it.  This  heated  air,  called  "  a  convective  current,"  rises,  and  carries  heat 
with  it.  Colder  air  takes  its  place,  and  is  warmed  and  ascends  in  its 
turn. 

Fire — our  best  servant  and  worst  enemy,  as  the  old  proverb  calls  it, 
is  heat  and  light  produced  by  combustion  of  inflammable  substances, 
which  separate  from  each  other  by  chemical  action,  and  combine  with  the 
oxygen  in  the  air. 

Fuel  contains  carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxygen,  with  certain  mineral  sub- 
stances. Carbon  is  the  solid  part  of  fuel — charcoal  is  carbon,  so  are 
lampblack,  coke,  and  diamonds  !  Hydrogen  is  an  inflammable  gas  ; 
carburetted  hydrogen  is  burned  in  the  lamps  in  our  streets  and  houses  as 


Fire.  69 

common  gas.  It  is  the  lightest  substance  known  ;  it  burns  the  moment  it 
is  ignited,  and  will,  if  a  light  reaches  it,  explode  should  there  not  be  enough 
atmospheric  air  in  the  room  to  render  it  innocuous.  Happily  its  unpleasant 
odour  is  a  warning  of  its  presence,  which  should  never  be  unheeded. 

Oxygen  is  the  pure  air  which  gives  life.  Nitrogen  is  an  invisible  gas 
which  will  not  burn,  will  not  help  combustion,  and  is  as  deadly  as  carbonic 
acid  gas.  Now  three  of  these  elements  are  employed  in  making  every 
common  fire — i.e.,  hydrogen  gas,  carbon,  and  oxygen;  the  two  former  in 
the  fuel,  the  latter  in  the  air. 

The  hydrogen  is  set  free  by  the  match,  and  uniting  with  the  oxygen  of 
the  air  makes  a  flame,  the  flame  heats  the  carbon  of  the  fuel,  which  also 
unites  with  the  oxygen  and  produces  carbonic  acid  gas. 

Fire  gives  forth  warmth  by  liberating  latent  heat  from  the  air  and  the 
fuel.  Carbon  requires  a  great  deal  of  heat  to  make  it  unite  with  the  oxygen 
of  the  air,  in  consequence  of  which  the  fire  kindles  gradually.  A  blazing 
fire  burns  the  fuel  quickest,  because  the  inflammable  gases  then  escaping 
help  combustion.  A  clear,  bright  fire  is  more  economical,  for  it  burns 
more  slowly,  and  there  is  very  little  smoke  with  a  red  hot  fire,  much  less 
than  with  one  partially  black,  because  the  entire  surface  of  the  coals  being 
in  a  state  of  combustion,  very  little  of  the  escaping  carbon  remains  uncon- 
sumed  to  fly  off  as  soot.  Smoke  is  unconsumed  matters  separated  from 
the  fuel,  consisting  of  minute  pieces  of  carbon,  gaseous  exhalations,  and 
vapour.     It  is,  we  know,  possible  to  consume  smoke. 

Fresh  coals  increase  smoke,  because  more  carbon  and  volatile  parti- 
cles are  separated  from  the  fuel  than  can  be  reduced  by  combustion,  and 
consequently  they  fly  off  in  smoke. 

The  combustion  of  a  fire  is  very  unequal,  because  the  air  reaches  it  in 
varied  currents.  The  various  shades  of  red,  yellow,  and  white  heat,  showing 
the  different  degrees  of  combustion,  mingled  with  the  unburnt  coal,  pro- 
duce the  fanciful  resemblances  we  call  "  faces  in  the  fire." 

Coals  burn  out  faster  on  a  frosty  day  than  on  a  warm  one,  because  the 
cold  condenses  the  air  and  thus  produces  more  oxygen  ;  colder  air  makes 
the  fire  burn  more  intensely. 

Our  readers  are  probably  well  aware  that  the  rays  of  the  sun  falling  on 
a  fire  will  often  put  it  out.  The  reason  is,  that  the  solar  rays  are  composed 
of  three  parts — lighting,  heating,  and  actinic  or  chemical  rays.  The  two 
latter  interfere  with  combustion. 

Fires  "  go  out "  in  summer,  not  only  because  less  attention  is  paid  to 
them,  but  because  the  hot  and  rarefied  air  of  summer  has  its  oxygen  dif- 
fused through  a  greater  space.  On  damp  days,  also,  fires  do  not  burn 
well  because  the  air  is  full  of  vapour  and  is  too  much  rarefied.  In  windy 
weather,  when  the  air  is  rapidly  changed,  plenty  of  oxygen  is  supplied,  and 
the  fire  will  burn  fiercely.  For  the  same  reason,  a  pair  of  bellows  helps  to 
kindle,  or  get  a  fire  up,  by  driving  the  oxygen  rapidly  into  it. 

When  coals  are  small  and  dusty  it  is  well  to  sprinkle  them  with  water, 
this  cakes  them  and  the  steam  generated  assists  to  heat  them  into  com- 
bustion ;  a  little  water,  in  fact,  makes  a  fire  burn  more  fiercely,  because  it 
is  readily  converted  into  steam,  which  increases  heat.  A  large  quantity  of 
water  extinguishes  fire  because  it  cannot  be  converted  instantly  into  steam. 

From  these  facts  we  may  learn  an  important  lesson.  In  cases  of  fire,  a 
little  water  employed  to  extinguish  it  is  worse  than  no  water  at  all,  as  it 


70  Smoky  Chimneys. 


increases  the  intensity  of  the  fire  instead  of  quenching  it ;  a  supply,  rapid 
and  abundant,  which  cannot  be  converted  into  steam,  is  required. 

Smoke  ascends  the  chimney,  unless  for  our  misery  the  flue  smokes  ;  it 
is  carried  up  by  the  air,  which,  passing  over  the  fire  gets  heated,  becomes 
of  course  lighter,  and  flies  up  the  chimney  carrying  the  unconsumed  par- 
ticles of  carbon  with  it ;  for,  as  we  have  said,  warm  air,  expanded  (as  all 
things  are)  by  heat,  always  ascends,  the  cold  and  heavier  air  sinks.  This 
cold  air  presses  the  lighter  (heated)  air  up  the  chimney. 

We  come  now  to  the  vexed  question  of  smoky  chimneys.  There  are, 
of  course,  scientific  reasons  for  them.  If  fresh  air  is  not  let  into  the  room 
as  fast  as  it  is  consumed  by  the  fire,  a  current  of  air  comes  down  the 
chimney  to  supply  the  deficiency,  and  drives  the  smoke  before  it.  This  is 
one  cause. 

Again,  if  the  funnel  of  the  chimney— that  is,  the  part  up  which  the 
smoke  goes — be  very  short,  it  will  smoke,  because  the  draught  of  a  short 
flue  is  too  slack  to  carry  the  smoke  up  the  chimney.  The  longer  the  flue, 
the  greater  the  draught  ;  hence  the  use  of  chimney-pots, 

Houses  in  valleys  often  smoke,  because  the  wind  striking  against  the 
hills,  returns  to  the  chimney  and  destroys  its  draught. 

If  the  fireplace  and  the  door  are  on  the  same  side  of  the  room,  the 
chimney  will  be  apt  to  smoke,  because  the  current  of  air  from  the  door 
will  blow  obliquely  to  the  fireplace  and  drive  the  smoke  into  the  room.  It 
is  best,  if  possible,  for  the  room  door  to  be  opposite  to  the  fireplace.  Too 
large  an  opening  of  the  fireplace,  as  in  farm-houses  and  kitchens,  will  a.so 
cause  smoke,  because  much  of  the  air  which  goes  up  the  chimney  has  never 
been  over  the  fire,  and  this  cold  air  chills  the  ascending  hot  air  and 
checks  its  ascent.  Contracting  the  space,  or  fixing  a  blower  is  the  best 
remedy  :  a  blower  increases  the  draught  by  compelling  the  air  to  pass 
through  the  fire,  and  thus  makes  it  so  much  hotter  that  it  ascends  more 
rapidly. 

Such  are  some  of  the  causes  of  smoky  chimneys  ;  we  may  add  obstruc- 
tions by  soot,  bricks' out  of  the  chimney  and  chinks  which  admit  cold  air ; 
in  short  the  management  of  the  draught  is  the  great  thing  in  almost  every 
case.  Air  must  be  supplied  to  the  fire,  and  all  contrivances  to  keep  it  out 
of  the  room,  such  as  list  or  Indian-rubber  round  doors,  sandbags,  etc.,  are 
likely  to  make  a  chimney  smoke.  The  draught  of  air  from  the  door  or 
window  always  sets  towards  the  fireplace ;  a  bed,  chair,  or  sofa  placed 
between  them  would  be  in  a  draught. 

Cure  for  Smoky  Chimneys. — Inflate  a  large  ox-bladder  with  air, 
and  tie  it  by  the  neck  to  the  middle  of  a  stick,  which  place  across  the  inside 
of  a  chimney,  about  two  feet  from  the  top,  or  at  the  foot  of  the  chimney- 
top.  The  buoyancy  of  the  air  keeps  the  bladder  continually  in  a  circular 
motion,  and  thereby  prevents  the  rush  of  air  into  the  funnel  from  descend- 
ing so  low  as  the  fireplace. 

The  grate  should  be  fixed  near  the  floor  of  the  room,  as  the  heat  of  the 
fire  has  very  little  effect  on  the  air  below  the  level  of  the  grate.  A  poker 
b.id  across  a  dull  fire  will  revive  it,  because  the  metal  concentrates  the 
heat  and  throws  it  on  the  fire,  and  air  being  drawn  between  the  poker  and 
the  coals  a  slight  draught  is  created. 

In  every  occupied  room  there  are  two  currents  of  air — one  of  hot  air 
flowing  out  of  the  loom,  the  other  of  cold  air  flowing  into  the  room.    The 


Making  up  a  Fire.  7 1 


hot  air  escapes  by  the  crevice  at  the  top  of  the  door,  the  cold  air  enters  at 
the  bottom.*  But  this  is  not  the  case  when  a  fire  is  lighted  in  the  room  ; 
an  inward  current  is  then  drawn  through  all  the  crevices,  and  the  heated 
air  escapes  up  the  chimney. 

Professor  Faraday  has  well  explained  the  advantages  of  the  open  coal 
£re  and  chimney  in  comparison  with  the  stove  and  flue.  A  parlour  grate 
will  consume  forty  pounds  of  coal  in  twelve  hours  ;  the  combustion  of  this 
quantity  of  fuel  renders  42,000  gallons  of  air  unfit  to  breathe.  But  the 
chimney  clears  us  of  all  this  bad  air  which  ascends  it,  while  Jive  times  that 
quantity  of  air  is  carried  up  with  it  by  the  draught,  and  thus  good  venti- 
lation is  obtained  by  means  of  our  ordinary  fires. 

If  the  combustion  of  the  coals  were  perfect,  we  should  have  neither 
soot  nor  smoke.  Dr.  Arnott's  patent  stove  was  constructed  that  the  com- 
bustion might  be  perfect.  In  a  common  fire  it  is  estimated  that  five-sixths 
of  the  heat  passes  up  the  chimney. 

The  principle  of  the  Arnott  stove  may  be  carried  out  by  lighting  a  fire 
from  the  top.  Here  are  instructions  given  for  the  arranging  it,  taken  from 
the  Builder : — 

"  Clean  out  your  grate  ;  cover  the  bottom  with  a  sheet  of  paper  cut  out 
or  folded  to  fit ;  place  coals  in  the  grate  to  the  level  of  the  top  bar,  keeping 
the  larger  ones  to  the  front,  to  prevent  waste.  Light  your  fire  on  the  top 
and  allow  it  to  burn  downwards  undisturbed.  An  ordinary  fire  prepared 
and  lighted  in  this  way  will,  according  to  the  size  and  form  of  the  grate, 
burn  six,  eight,  or  ten  hours  without  any  renewal  of  coal,  burning  brighter 
and  warmer  than  if  lighted  from  below,  as  fires  are  ordinarily  made.  The 
coal  should  be  tolerably  equal  in  size,  something  like  McAdam  stone  ; 
place  the  large  to  the  front,  the  small  to  the  back.  The  paper  is  put  in 
the  grate  to  prevent  any  air  rising  through  the  bottom  bars.  The  fire  is 
lighted  on  the  topt  and  made  to  burn  downwards  to  prevent  rapid  com- 
bustion, and  to  keep  the  heat  on  the  surface  of  the  coals,  cinders,  or  coke  ; 
and  if  undisturbed,  the  combustion  will  be  so  complete  that  there  will  be 
no  waste  ashes.  The  grate  must  be  cleaned  each  morning,  and  the  paper 
must  be  renewed  on  the  bottom  of  the  grate  when  the  fire  reaches  the 
lower  layer  of  coal." 

This  fire  is  very  advisable  for  a  chimney  which  is  incurably  smoky  ; 
but  though  economical  and  clean,  it  lacks  the  bright  sparkle  and  blaze  of 
the  old-fashioned  fire. 

A  very  good  plan  also,  is  to  make  a  hollow  at  the  back  of  the  fire, 
before  fresh  coals  are  put  on,  and  fill  it  in  first  with  the  cinders  under  the 
grate.  Place  the  fresh  coals  on  these  cinders,  and  the  gas  given  out  by 
the  coals  will  be  consumed  by  them,  and  the  smoke  also.  This  is  a  very 
old-fashioned  mode  of  making  up  a  fire  ;  the  reason  why  it  answered  well 
was  probably  unknown  to  the  housewives  of  other  days,  but  their  practical 
knowledge  told  them  that  this  was  the  right  way. 

It  should  ever  be  borne  in  mind  that  fire  cannot  exist  without  air,  and 
will  not  spread  rapidly  unless  it  is  plentifully  supplied  with  it.  Therefore  in 
pses  of  fire  catching  the  furniture,  etc.,  in  a  room,  close  all  the  doors  and 


This  is  the  cause  of  our  feet  being  cold  if  the  draught  is  strong. 
f  With  wood  and  paper,  as  for  other  fires. 


73 


Putting  out  or  escaping  Fire. 


windows  instantly,  while  every  effort  is  made  to  extinguish  it.  In  case  of 
the  dress  catching  fire,  the  same  truth  should  be  borne  in  mind.  Never 
run  out  into  the  air.  Running  increases  the  flame  by  fanning  it.  Lie 
down  and  roll  over  and  over  on  the  ground,  if  you  are  alone  ;  at  all  events 
lie  down,  aflame  ascends,  and  will  therefore  not  be  so  likely  to  injure  the 
head  or  vital  parts  if  the  person  on  fire  is  lying  down.  But  if  possible  roll 
yourself  in  a  blanket,  or  the  rug,  or  a  table  cover  at  once.  The  moment 
all  air  is  shut  off  from  fire  it  will  go  out.  Remember  also,  that  as  heated 
air  and  vapour  ascend,  and  cold  air  sinks,  you  will  always  (in  the  midst 
of  most  suffocating  smoke)  find  air  fit  to  breathe  within  a  foot  of  the  floor  ; 
XRAWL  therefore  rather  than  walk  in  escaping  from  a  room  full  of  smoke  ; 
a  piece  of  flannel  over  the  mouth  would  also  enable  you  to  breathe. 

LIGHT. 

LIGHT  is  supposed  to  be  communicated  and  produced  by  the  vibratory 
motion  of  a  subtle  and  delicate  ether,  but  it  is  believed  that  further  dis- 
coveries may  be  made  on  the  subject  hereafter. 

"  Starting  with  the  proposition,"  says  Professor  Pepper,  "  that  all 
sources  of  light  and  luminous  bodies,  like  musical  instruments,  must  first 
vibrate,  it  is  not  difficult  to  understand  by  analogy,  how  these  vibrations 
may  travel  at  the  rate  of  182,000  miles  per  second,  in  straight  lines  called 
rays. 

"  A  tuning-fork  emitting  sound  might  by  analogy  represent  a  source  of 


A,  tuning-fork  struck  on  the  leaden  cone  B,  capped  with  leather,  and 
applied  to  the  end  of  the  rod  c,  whilst  the  other  end  is  held  against  the 
sounding-  board  D. 


light  like  the  sun,  whilst  a  long  rod  communicating  with  it  would  stand  in 
the  place  of  the  theoretical  ether,  propagating  the  undulations  from  the 
sun  through  a  space  of  924  millions  of  miles,  and  if  the  other  end  of  the 
rod  communicates  with  the  sounding-board  of  a  guitar,  the  audible  sound 
obtained  might  compare  with  the  light  falling  on  the  earth,  and  becoming 
apparent  by  radiation. 

"The  conversion  of  a  continued  series  of  mechanical  impulses  into  waves 
is  beautifully  shown  by  taking  hold  of  the  end  of  a  long  vulcanized  india- 
rubber  tube  filled  with  sand,  and  having  attached  one  end  to  the  ceiling  or 
•Mdier  convenient  place,  it  is  easy  by  a  jerk  to  produce  the  appearance  of  a 


Light. 


73 


wave,  which  travels  distinctly  from  the  hand  to  the  ceiling ;  at  the  same 

time  it  demonstrates  the  pro- 
gressive nature  of  the  wave 

or  undulation,   and    as  the 

portion  held  by  the  operator 

cannot  move  from  his  hand 

to  the  ceiling,  it  shows  how 

the  eye  is   deceived  whilst 

looking    at    the    motion    of 

waves  of  water.    Every  wave 

in  water  is  propagated  by  the 

rising    and  falling    of    that 

which  has  preceded  it,  and 

not  because  the  volume  of 

water  representing  the  wave 

travels  bodily  from  the  spot 

where  it  is  first  noticed  to 

the  shore  where  it  breaks. 
"  Dr.  Tyndall  has  shown, 

by   a    modification    of   Dr. 

Young's     experiments    with 

vibrating  strings  upon  which 

light  is  thrown,  a  number  of 

very  beautiful  effects.    A  sil- 
vered cord  attached  to  the 

iron  arm  of  a  curved  spring 

band,  one   end  of  which  is 

made  to  vibrate  by  an  electro-magnet,  displays  the  divisions  of  the  cords 

into  wave-like  figures  most  perfectly  when  the  cord  is  illuminated  by  the 

lime  or,  better  still,  the  electric  light. 

"  Using  the  brilliant  light  as  before,  a  still  more  perfect  and  admirable 

experiment  may  be  conducted  by  attaching  one  end  of  a  bright  silvered 

chain  to  a  hook  screwed  into  a  vertical  whirling  table,  and  the  other  to  a 

proper  stand.     The  chain  being  horizontal  and  the  wheel  vertical,  it  may 

be  swung  into  one  longwave,  or  by  a  still  more  rapid  rotation,  can  be 
divided  into  three,  four,  or  more.  The  links  of  the  chain  flash  in  the  light, 
and  produce  the  most  pleasing  effects. 

"  It  must  be  remembered  that  if  cords,  chains,  water,  air,  &c,  can 
assume  a  wave-like  motion,  the  wonderful  tension  and  elasticity  of  the  hypo- 
thetical ether  would  permit  the  latter  to  adapt  itself  to  the  most  compli- 
cated movements  almost  with  the  rapidity  of  thought.  The  very  spiral, 
spindle-like,  or  corkscrew  motion  observable  in  the  chain  and  cord  affords 
a  good  idea  of  the  mechanism  of  the  propagation  of  light,  as  the  movement 
of  each  molecule  of  ether  is  always  perpendicular  to  the  path  of  the  ray  or 
wave  of  light. 

"  The  astonishing  rapidity  of  the  periodic  movements  of  the  non-gravi- 
tating molecules  of  ether  becomes  apparent,  when  it  is  stated  that  to 
produce  white  light  five  hundred  millions  of  millions  of  vibrations  of  the 
ether,  1,000.000,000,000   x  500  must  occur  in  every  second  of  time. 

"  Or,  taking  the  coloured  rays  at  the  extremities  of  the  solar  spectrum, 
viz.,  the  red  ray  and  the  violet,  the  former  demands  the  recurrence  of  four 


The  Vulcanized  Tube  attached  to  the  ceiling, 
and  thrown  into  protuberances  or  waves  by  the 
hand  of  the  operator. 


Sources  of  'Light. 


hundred  and  fifty-eight  millions  of  millions,  1,000,000,000.000  X  458  ;  and 
the  latter,  the  violet,  a  still  larger  number,  and  greater  rapidity  of  vibration, 
six  hundred  and  ninety-nine  millions  of  millions,  1,000.000,000,000  x  699 
per  second. 

"  The  coloured  rays  of  light  are  supposed,  according  to  the  undulatory 
theory,  to  be  distinguished  from  each  other  by  the  breadths  of  the  different 
waves,  just  as  the  sound  of  a  stringed  instrument  may  vary  according  to 
the  diameter  and  thickness  of  the  strings.  A  tightly-stretched  thin  cord 
vibrating  would  be  the  parallel  to  violet  light.  It  is  an  axiom  that,  "  The 
rapidity  of  vibration  is  inversely  proportional  to  the  length  and  diameter 
of  the  string,  and proportional  to  the  square  root  of  the  tension.  A  thicker 
cord  not  so  tightly  stretched,  would  be  the  parallel  to  red  light. 

Heat  a  Source  of  Light. 

"When  iron  is  heated  to  a  temperature  of  6350  Fahrenheit,  it  emits  a 
dull  red  light,  visible  only  in  a  darkened  room.  If  the  heat  is  further  in- 
creased to  9030  Fahrenheit,  a  bright  red  light  is  apparent,  visible  in  a 
chamber  fairly  illuminated.  The  light  attains  a  greater  intensity  at  the 
moment  the  iron  is  heated  to  10000  Fahrenheit.  Thus,  by  the  progressive 
increase  of  the  heat  of  the  iron,  what  is  call  a  dull  red,  a  pale  red,  and  a 
white  heat  is  obtained.  By  increasing  the  heat  of  a  solid  body  a  develop- 
ment of  light  or  incandescence  is  obtainable. 

Light  the  frequent  attendant  of  Electrical  Phenomena. 

"  The  intense  and  dazzling  brightness  of  lightning  has  been  known  to 
■cause  temporary  and  permanent  blindness.  The  immense  electric  spark, 
the  result  of  the  discharge  of  thousands  of  acres  of  charged  clouds,  will 
probably  be  more  closely  imitated  than  ever  by  an  enormous  induction 
coil,  now  being  constructed  by  Mr.  Apps  for  the  Royal  Polytechnic,  which 
.is  calculated  to  give  a  spark  5  ft.  in  length,  the  usual  length  being  from 
5  to  18  in.,  or,  in  very  rare  cases,  2  ft.     At  the  moment  of  discharge  the 

•  electricity  may  develop  light,  heat,  magnetical,  mechanical,  and  chemical 

•  effects.  Here  is  a  correlation  of  forces  that  might  well  excuse  Oersted  in 
proposing  a  theory  of  light  in  which  he  regards  light  as  the  result  of  electric 

:  sparks." 

Light  moves  with  extraordinary  swiftness.     It  travels  at  the  rate  of 

182,000  miles  in  a  second,  and  will  go  eight  times  round  the  earth  while 

.-a  person  could  count  "  one."     It  acts  on  the  nerve  of  the  eye  and  causes 

1  us  to  see.    The  pupil  contracts  when  the  light  falls  on  it  full  and  brilliantly, 

;as  from  the  sun,  etc.,  and  dilates  when  the  rays  of  light  are  few.     The 

sudden  light  is  therefore  painful  because  it  falls  on  a  dilated  pupil,  which 

has  not  had   time  to  contract.       By  dilating  and  contracting  to  catch 

more  or  keep  back  the  rays,  the  pupil  of  the  eye  accommodates  itself  to 

.  light  or  darkness. 

The  broad  pupil  of  a  cat's  eye  is  fatigued  by  light,  therefore  she  closes 
her  eyes,  blinks  at  fire-light,  and  sleeps  much  by  day  ; — seeing  best  in  the 

•  dark,  because  she  has  the  power,  as  tigers  and  owls  also  have,  of  dilating 
,the  pup'1  ^f  the  eye  to  collect  scattered  rays  in  a  manner  impossible  to  us, 


75 


THE    HUMAN    EYE. 

From  Professor  Pepper's  "  Cyclopedic  Science  Simplified? 

"  This  elaborate  and  wonderful  work  of  the  Creator,  built  up  of  the  usual 
constituents  of  animal  substances,  viz. — albumen,  gelatine,  fibrine,  with  a 
little  fatty  matter— all  marvellously  shaped  and  fitted  to  their  purposes> 
represents  an  optical  instrument  which  transcends  every  contrivance  made 
by  the  hand  of  man.  The  camera  obscura  is  the  nearest  approach  to  an 
imitation  of  the  eye.  It  is  fitted  with  a  double-convex  lens  ;  the  rays  of 
light  thrown  off  from  any  object  placed  before  the  apparatus  are  brought 
to  a  focus,  and  received  upon  a  sheet  of  paper  or  piece  of  ground  glass. 
In  the  eye  the  same  result  is  brought  about  by  the  refraction  of  light  in  the 
crystalline  lens  and  the  other  humours  ;  the  rays  are  brought  to  a  focus, 
and  impinge  upon  a  nerve,  spread  out  as  a  delicate  network  to  catch  the 
beams,  and  to  vibrate  in  sympathy  with  those  exquisite  undulations  which 
cause  the  propagation  of  light,  and  thus  to  produce  the  sensation  of  vision. 
Anatomists  have  given  this  organ  their  most  careful  attention,  and  pub- 
lished elaborate  drawing  of  the  various  parts  of  the  eye.  By  the  permission 
of  Messrs.  Chadburn,  of  Sheffield,  a  copy  of  their  instructive  diagrams  of 
the  eye  is  added. 

A.  The  Pupil,  or  circular  opening  in  the  iris,  capable  of  being  con- 
tracted or  enlarged,  according  to  the  amount  and  intensity  of  light. 

B.  The  Iris,  a  flat  circular  membrane,  of  a  grey,  blue,  or  black  colour, 
forming  the  anterior  and  posterior  chambers  of  the  eye.  It  performs  the 
same  functions  as  a  diaphragm  in  an  optical  instrument. 

C.  The  Sclerotic  Coat,  a  tough  white  membrane,  to  which  the  muscles 
for  moving  the  eyeball  are  attached. 

D.  The  Eyelids,  containing  the  tarsal  fibro-cartilages. 

E.  The  Cornea,  composed  of  tough  transparent  laminae,  forming  the 
front  of  the  eye  ;  the  first  surface,  where  the  rays  of  light  are  refracted. 
Some  anatomists  have  considered  the  sclerotica  and  cornea  as  one  and 
the  same,  and  have  termed  the  cornea  the  transparent,  and  the  sclerotica 
the  opaque  cornea. 

F.  The  Aqueous  Humour,  contained  in  a  delicate  membrane  filling  the 
space  from  the  cornea  to  the  crystalline  lens.  The  space  occupied  by  this 
humour  is  divided  into  two  parts  by  the  iris,  forming,  as  shown  at  B,  the 
anterior  and  posterior  chambers  of  the  eye. 

G.  The  Crystalline  Lens,  contained  in  a  transparent  membrane  called 
the  Capsule,  the  principal  refracting  medium  of  the  eye.  The  capsule 
adheres  by  its  edge  to  the  ring-shaped  body  called  the  Ciliary  Circle  or 
ligament,  N. 

H.  The  Vitreous  Humour,  contained  in  the  hyaloid  membrane — a 
jelly-like  substance,  resembing  the  white  of  an  egg,  filling  the  body  of  the 
eye. 

I.  The  Retina,  a  membrane  which  receives  the  impression  of  light, 
and  transmits  it  to  the  brain  through  the  optic  nerve,  K. 

J.  The  Choroid  Coat,  a  delicate  membrane  lining  the  sclerotica, 
covered  on  its  inner  surface  with  a  black  substance  (pigmenlum  nigrum, 
resembling  the  colouring  matter  of  the  negro's  skin)  contiguous  to  the 


76 


The  Human  Eye. 


Fig.  i.  The  Human  Eye.     Fig.  2.  The  Eyeball,  showing  the  Coats,  etc., 

of  the  Eye.     Fig.  3.   Longitudinal  Section  of  the  Eye  and  Orbit 

through  the  dotted  lines  on  Fig.  1. 


The  Human  Eye.  .  77 


retina.     The  choroid,  by  its  vascular  tissue,  serves  to  carry  the  blood  into 
the  interior  of  the  eye. 

K.  The  Optic  Nerve. 

L.    Canal  of  Petit. 

M.  Central  Artery  of  the  optic  nerve, 

N.  Ciliary  Circle  or  ligament. 

O.  Ciliary  Nerves. 

p.   Vasa  Vorticosa. 

Q.  The  Ciliary  processes. 

R.   Tunica  Conjunctiva. 

R  s.  Tunica  Conjunctiva  collapsed,  as  when  the  eye  is  closed. 

S.  Elastic  Muscle  of  the  Eyelid. 

T.  Elastic  Muscle  of  the  Eye. 

U.  Superior  Oblique  Muscle. 

V.  Depressive  Muscle  of  the  Eye. 

w.  Section  of  Oblique  inferior  Muscle. 

x.  Nerves  and  Arteries. 

Y.  Tube  conveying  the  optic  nerve  to  the  brain. 

Z.  Bone  forming  the  socket  of  the  eye. 

N.B. — The  same  letters  apply  to  each  figure. 

"  Brewster  found  the  following  to  be  the  refractive  powers  of  the  dif- 
ferent humours  of  the  eye,  the  ray  of  light  being  incident  upon  them  from 
air  : — 


Aqueous  humour .     .     .     .     I  '336 
Crystalline  lens,  surface     .     1*3767 
„  „        centre     .     1-3990 


Crystalline  lens,  mean  .  .  1  '3839 
Vitreous  humour  ....  1*3394 
Water i'3358 


"  But  the  rays  of  light  are  not  all  incident  upon  them  from  the  air,  and 
as  the  rays  refracted  by  the  aqueous  humour  pass  into  the  crystalline, 
and  those  from  the  crystalline  into  the  vitreous  humour,  the  indices  of  re- 
fraction of  the  separating  surfaces  of  their  humours  will  be — 

From  aqueous  humour  to  outer  coat  of  the  crystalline    .     .  1*0455 

From      „  „  to  crystalline,  using  the  mean  index  1*0352 

From  vitreous  to  crystalline,  outer  coat 1  '0443 

From      „  „         „  using  the  mean  index    .     .     .  1*0332 

"  The  eye,  as  already  described,  consists  of  four  coats  or  membranes, 
which  are  disposed  in  the  following  order — viz.,  1st,  the  sclerotic  ;  2nd  the 
cornea,  which  fits  into  it  like  the  glass  of  a  watch  ;  3rd,  the  choroid  ;  and 
4th,  the  retina  :  of  two  fluids  or  humours,  the  aqueous  and  the  vitreous, 
and  of  a  lens  called  the  crystalline. 

"  Over  the  cornea  and  sclerotic  is  expanded  a  delicate  mucous  mem- 
brane, called  the  conjunctiva.  The  iris  is  suspended  across  the  eye,  and 
in  its  centre  is  an  opening,  termed  the  pupil,  which  immediately  opens 
when  the  light  diminishes,  and  closes  if  the  light  is  too  strong.  The 
posterior  convexity  of  the  lens  is  greater  than  the  anterior.  Sometimes, 
from  a  too  great  convexity  of  the  lens  or  the  cornea,  the  rays  of  light 
which  enter  the  eye  come  to  a  focus  before  they  impinge  upon  the  retina, 
producing  the  defect  called  short-sighted  vision.  Optical  science  corrects 
this  inconvenience  by  the  use  of  a  concave  lens.  If  the  crystalline  lens  is 
not  sufficiently  convex,  the  rays  of  light  come  to  a  focus  behind  the  retina  ; 


7$  •  The  Human  Eye. 


this  defect  is  surmounted  by  the  use  of  a  convex  lens,  which  diminishes 
the  divergence  of  the  rays.  Such  ingenious  artificial  additions  to  the  eye 
are  common  enough  at  the  present  day,  but  it  may  be  asked,  how  did  our 
forefathers  bear  these  infirmities  ?  Spectacles  are  supposed  to  have  been 
unknown  to  the  ancients,  and  it  is  stated  by  Francesco  Redi  that  they 
were  invented  in  the  13th  century,  between  the  years  1280  and  1311,  pro- 
bably about  the  year  1299  or  1300  ;  he  gave  the  honour  of  the  discovery 
to  Alexander  de  Spina,  a  monk  of  the  order  of  Predicants  of  St.  Catharine, 
at  Pisa.  Muschenbroek,  the  old  electrician  who  discovered  the  Leyden 
jar,  observes  that  it  is  inscribed  on  the  tomb  of  Salvinus  Armatus,  a  noble- 
man of  Florence,  who  died  in  1317,  that  he  was  the  inventor  of  spectacles. 
This  may  have  been  the  person  who  had  the  secret  as  well  as  the  learned 
monk,  because  Redi  states  that  the  latter  only  disclosed  the  secret  upon 
learning  that  another  person  had  it  as  well  as  himself. 

"  Mr.  Acland  makes  the  following  practical  and  valuable  observations  on 
defects  of  vision : — 

1  On  the  Symptoms  indicating  a  Necessity  for  Spectacles. 

"  (  The  natural  decay  of  vision  occurs  usually  from  thirty  to  fifty  years 
of  age,  varying  according  to  habits  and  employment  of  the  individual. 
Some  time  during  this  interval  the  refractive  power  of  the  crystalline 
humours  of  the  eye  slightly  alters  its  condition,  whilst  the  crystalline  lens 
and  cornea  change  their  form,  so  that  a  difficulty  of  distinct  vision  is  felt. 
The  eye  loses  a  portion  of  its  power  of  seeing  at  varying  distances,  or  its 
power  of  adjustment ;  and  near  objects  are  no  longer  as  easily  seen  as  in 
youth.  Reading  small  print  by  candlelight  is  difficult,  as  the  book  re- 
quires to  be  held  at  a  greater  distance  from  the  eye  than  formerly,  and  a 
more  powerful  light  is  needed  ;  and  even  then  the  letters  appear  misty, 
and  to  run  one  into  the  other,  or  seem  double.  And  still  further,  in  order 
to  see  more  easily,  the  light  is  often  placed  between  the  book  and  the  eye, 
and  fatigue  is  soon  felt,  even  with  moderate  reading. 

" '  When  these  symptoms  show  the  eye  to  have  altered  its  primitive 
form,  spectacles  are  absolutely  needed.  Nature  is  calling  for  aid,  and 
must  have  assistance,  and  if  such  is  longer  withheld,  the  eye  is  needlessly 
taxed,  and  the  change,  which  at  first  was  slight,  proceeds  more  rapidly, 
until  a  permanent  injury  is  produced. 

" '  There  is  a  common  notion  that  the  use  of  spectacles  should  be  put 
of?  as  long  as  possible,  but  such  is  a  great  mistake,  leading  often  to 
impaired  vision  for  life,  and  is  even  more  injurious  than  a  too  early 
employment. 

" '  Timely  assistance  relieves  the  eye,  and  diminishes  the  tendency  to 
flattening,  whereas  should  the  use  of  spectacles  be  longer  postponed,  the 
eye  changes  rapidly,  and  when  the  optician  is  at  last  consulted,  it  is  found 
that  a  deeper  focus  spectacle  must  be  used  than  usual  for  the  first  pair, 
and  even  these  suit  but  a  short  time  and  have  to  be  again  exchanged  for 
those  of  still  deeper  power  ;  and  these  frequent  changes  become  a  matter 
of  necessity  which,  unless  judiciously  checked,  continue  during  life. 

" '  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that,  when  first  using  spectacles,  they  are 
not  required  during  daylight,  but  only  for  reading,  etc.,  by  artificial  light, 
and  it  may  be  from  six  months  to  two  years  from  the  time  of  first  adopting 
them  ere  they  will  be  required  for  day  use. 


The  Stereoscope. 


"  '  Spectacles  for  the  Short-sighted. — Short  sight  is  often  present  at  birth, 
but  is  little  noticed,  nor  its  inconveniences  felt,  until  study  becomes  im- 
perative. When  this  occurs,  the  power  employed  should  be  always 
slightly  under  that  needed  to  remedy  the  defect,  otherwise  the  eye  will 
gradually  accommodate  itself  to  the  lenses,  and  require  constantly  an  in- 
crease of  power.  In  all  cases  leave  some  little  for  the  adjustment  of  the 
eye  to  do,  and  then  you  may,  after  a  time,  diminish  the  power  of  the  lenses 
needed. 

"  '  The  Optician's  Knowledge. — Having  now  shown  when  spectacles 
should  be  employed,  let  us  for  a  moment  consider  what  are  the  require- 
ments that  should  in  all  cases  be  possessed  by  the  optician  to  whom  the 
selection  of  spectacle  lenses  is  entrusted. 

"  '  These  requirements  are — 

"'ist.  An  intimate  knowledge  of  the  anatomical  structure  of  the  eye, 
and  of  the  theory  of  vision. 

" '  2nd.  An  extensive  acquaintance  with  the  science  of  optics. 

" '  3rd.    A  sound  mathematical  knowledge. 

" '  4th.  A  practical  acquaintance  with  the  manufacture  of  lenses  and 
spectacle  frames. 

ut  Having  for  the  last  fourteen  years  made  the  adaptation  of  spectacles 
my  especial  study,  I  have  frequently  met  with  cases  where  great  injury 
has  been  done  to  the  weak-sighted  by  the  ordinary  optician's  im- 
proper selection  of  spectacles  ;  and  I  could  heartily  wish  more  of  my 
medical  brethren  would  bring  their  knowledge  to  bear  on  this  subject, — 
which  demands,  and  frequently  calls  forth,  all  the  science  and  skill  we 
possess,  to  meet  the  requirements  of  some  abnormal  cases  that  present 
themselves.' 

"  The  knowledge  which  the  eye  conveys  to  the  mind  is  boundless  ;  the 
relative  condition  of  matter,  large  and  small,  of  motion  or  rest,  of  colour, 
of  solidity,  of  transparency,  of  brilliancy,  of  opacity,  of  space  or  distance, 
are  only  a  few  of  the  results  attained  by  the  exercise  of  the  faculty  of 
vision." 


THE    STEREOSCOPE. 

u  This  most  valuable  and  instructive  instrument,  and  now  not  only  a 
1  household  word,'  but  a  piece  of  domestic  apparatus  without  which  no 
drawing-room  is  thought  complete,  was  invented  by  Professor  Wheatstone, 
and  subsequently  modified  by  Sir  D.  Brewster.  It  demonstrates  that  man 
must  have  two  eyes  in  order  to  enjoy  the  appreciation  of  distance,  or,  like 
the  fabled  Polyphemus,  we  might  only  have  had  one  eye.  Mr.  Woodward 
gives  the  following  excellent  and  familiar  explanation  of  the  phenomena 
produced  by  the  stereoscope. 

1 A  Familiar  Explanation  of  the  Phenomena  produced  by  the  Stereoscope* 

" '  The  name  is  derived  from  two  Greek  words,  signifying  to  view  solid 
things,  and  the  instrument  is  so  constructed  that  two  flat  pictures,  taken 
under  certain  conditions,  shall  appear  to  form  a  single  solid  or  projecting 
body. 

" '  A  picture  of  any  object  is  formed  on  the  retina  of  each  eye ;  but 
although  there  may  be  but  one  object  presented  to  the  two  eyes,  the  pic- 


So 


The  Stereoscope. 


tures  formed  on  the  two  retinas  are  not  precisely  alike,  because  the  object 
is  not  observed  from  the  same  point  of  view. 

" '  If  the  right  hand  be  held  at  right  angles  to,  and  a  few  inches  from, 
the  face,  the  back  of  the  hand  will  be  seen  when  viewed  by  the  right  eye 
only,  and  the  palm  of  the  hand  when  viewed  by  the  left  eye  only  ;  hence 
the  images  formed  on  the  retinae  of  the  two  eyes  must  differ,  the  one 
including  more  of  the  right  side  and  the  other  more  of  the  left  side  of  the 
same  solid  or  projecting  object.  Again,  if  we  bend  a  card  so  as  to  represent 
a  triangular  roof,  place  it  on  the  table  with  the  gable  end  towards  the 
eyes,  and  look  at  it,  first  with  one  eye  and  then  with  the  other,  quickly  and 
alternately  opening  and  closing  one  of  the  eyes,  the  card  will  appear  to 
move  from  side  to  side,  because  it  will  be  seen  by  each  eye  under  a  dif- 
ferent angle  of  vision.  If  we  look  at  the  card  with  the  left  eye  only,  the 
whole  of  the  left  side  of  the  card  will  be  plainly  seen,  while  the  right  side 
will  be  thrown  into  shadow.  If  we  next  look  at  the  same  card  with  the 
right  eye  only,  the  whole  of  the  right  side  of  the  card  will  be  distinctly 
visible,  while  the  left  side  will  be  thrown  into  the  shadow  ;  and  thus  two 
images  of  the  same  object,  with  differences  of  outline,  light  and  shade,  will 


Professor  Wheatstone's  Reflecting  Stereoscope. 

be  formed— the  one  on  the  retina  of  the  right  eye,  and  the  other  on  the 
retina  of  the  left.  These  images  falling  on  corresponding  parts  of  the 
retina  convey  to  the  mind  the  impression  of  a  single  object;*  while  expe- 
rience having  taught  us,  however  unconscious  the  mind  may  be  of  the 
existence  of  two  different  images,  that  the  effect  observed  is  always  pro- 
duced by  a  body  which  really  stands  out  or  projects,  the  judgment  natu- 
rally determines  the  object  to  be  a  projecting  body. 

" '  It  is  experience  also  that  teaches  us  to  judge  of  distances  by  the 
different  angles  of  vision  under  which  an  object  is  observed  by  the  two 
eyes ;  for  the  inclination  of  the  optic  axes,  when  so  adjusted  that  the 
images  may  fall  on  corresponding  parts  of  the  retince,  and  thus  convey  to 
the  mind  the  impression  of  a  single  object,  must  be  greater  or  less,  accord- 
ing to  the  distance  of  the  object  from  the  eyes. 

"  '  Perfect  vision  cannot  then  be  obtained  without  two  eyes,  as  it  is  by 
the  combined  effect  of  the  image  produced  on  the  retina  of  each  eye,  and 


*  "  That  this  is  the  correct  theoiy  of  single  vision  with  the  two  eyes  is  evident. 
For  if,  while  looking  at  a  single  object  with  both  eyes,  Ave  make  a  slight  pressure 
with  the  finger  on  one  of  the  eyeballs,  we  shall  immediately  perceive  \wo  objects; 
but,  on  removing  the  pressure,  only  one  will  be  again  seen." 


The  Stereoscope, 


the  different  angles  under  which  objects  are  observed,  that  a  judgment  is 
formed  respecting  their  solidity  and  distances. 

" '  A  man  restored  to  sight  by  couching  cannot  tell  the  form  of  a  body 
without  touching  it,  until  his  judgment  has  been  matured  by  experience, 
although  a  perfect  image  may  be  formed  on  the  retina  of  each  eye.  A  man 
with  only  one  eye  cannot  readily  distinguish  the  form  of  a  body  which  he 
had  never  previously  seen,  but  quickly  and  unwittingly  moves  his  head 
from  side  to  side,  so  that  his  one  eye  may  alternately  occupy  the  different 
positions  of  a  right  and  a  left  eye  ;  and,  if  we  approach  a  candle  with  one 
eye  shut,  and  then  attempt  to  snuff  it,  wre  shall  experience  more  difficulty 
than  we  might  have  expected,  because  the  usual  mode  of  determining  the 
correct  distance  is  wanting. 

"'  In  order,  then,  to  deceive  the  judgment,  so  that  flat  surfaces  may 
represent  solid  or  projecting  figures,  we  must  cause  the  different  images  of 
a  body,  as  observed  by  the  two  eyes,  to  be  depicted  on  the  respective 
retinae,  and  yet  to  appear  to  have  emanated  from  one  and  the  same  object. 
Two  pictures  are  therefore  taken  from  the  really  projecting  or  solid  body, 
the  one  as  observed  by  the  right  eye  only,  and  the  other  as  seen  by  the  left. 
These  pictures  are  then  placed  in  the  box  of  the  stereoscope,  which  is 
furnished  with  two  eye-pieces,  containing  lenses  so  constructed  that  the 
rays  proceeding  from  the  respective  pictures  to  the  corresponding  eye- 
pieces shall  be  refracted  or  bent  outwards,  at  such  an  angle  as  each  set  of 
rays  would  have  formed  had  they  proceeded  from  a  single  picture  in  the 
centre  of  the  box  to  the  respective  eyes,  without  the  intervention  of  the 
lenses  ;  and  as  it  is  an  axiom  in  optics  that  the  mind  always  refers  the 
situation  of  an  object  to  the  direction  from  which  the  rays  appear  to  have 
proceeded  when  they  enter  the  eyes,  both  pictures  will  appear  to  have 
emanated  from  one  central  object ;  but  as  one  picture  represents  the  real 
or  projecting  object  as  seen  by  the  right  eye,  and  the  other  as  observed  by 
the  left,  though  appearing  by  refraction  to  have  proceeded  from  one  and 
the  same  object,  the  effects  conveyed  to  the  mind,  and  the  judgment 
formed  thereon,  will  be  precisely  the  same  as  if  the  images  were  both 
derived  from  one  solid  or  projecting  body,  instead  of  from  two  pictures, 
because  all  the  usual  conditions  are  fulfilled ;  and  consequently  the  two 
pictures  will  appear  to  be  converted  into  one  solid  body. 

" '  The  necessary  pictures  for  producing  these  effects,  excepting  those  of 

geometrical  figures,  which  may 
be  laid  down  by  certain  rules, 
cannot,  however,  be  drawn  by 
the  hands  of  man  ;  for,  as  Pro- 
fessor Wheatstone  has  observed, 
'It  is  evidently  impossible  for 
the  most  accurate  and  accom- 
plished artist  to  delineate,  by  the 
sole  aid  of  his  eye,  the  two  pro- 
jections necessary  to  form  the 
stereoscopic  relief  of  objects  as 
they  exist  in  nature,  with  their 
delicate  differences  of  outline, 
light,  and  shade.  But  what  the  hand  of  the  artist  was  unable  to  accomplish, 
the  chemical  action  of  light,directcd  by  the  camera,  has  enablod  us  to  effect. 

G 


Brewster's  Refracting  Stereoscope. 


§-  Refraction  of  Light. 


"  '  Daguerreotype  portraits  and  Talbotype  pictures  are  therefore  taken 
usually  by  two  cameras  placed  towards  the  object,  with  a  difference  of 
angle  equal  to  the  difference  of  the  angle  of  vision  of  the  two  eyes,  which 
is  about  1 8°  when  the  object  is  eight  inches  from  the  eyes  ;  hence,  if  these 
be  carefully  examined  and  compared  with  the  original  projecting  objects, 
they  will  be  found  to  be  faithful  representations  of  the  object  as  seen  by 
each  eye  respectively." 

Directions  for  using  the  Stereoscope. 

"  *  The  objects  must  be  so  adjusted  in  the  box,  that  only  one  picture  may 
be  seen  in  the  centre,  care  being  taken  that  the  pictures  are  not  reversed 
so  as  to  be  seen  by  the  right  eye  instead  of  the  left,  and  vice  versa. 

" '  The  proper  position  of  portraits,  buildings,  and  similar  objects  cannot 
be  mistaken  ;  but  where  this  is  not  readily  perceived,  it  should  be  ascer- 
tained, when  the  object  can  be  marked  so  as  at  once  to  be  properly 
placed. 

" '  The  eye-pieces,  if  allowed  to  turn,  are  marked  with  arrows,  to  indi- 
cate their  proper  position,  these  must  be  placed  inwards,  and  in  a  right 
line  with  each  other. 

" '  The  eye-pieces  in  some  instances  are  made  to  draw  out  to  suit  the 
foci  of  different  persons.  But  those  who  use  spectacles  will  generally  see 
best  with  them  on,  bringing  them  forward  so  as  to  lie  flat  on  the  eye-pieces, 
which  in  such  cases  should  not  be  drawn  out. 

"  '  Persons,  however,  with  a  defective  sight  in  either  eye  will  not  be  able 
to  perceive  the  astonishing  effects  of  the  arrangement,  as  two  different 
images  will  not  be  perfectly  formed  on  the  retina?  of  the  respective  eyes.' " 

REFRACTION    OP    LIGHT. 

Some  slight  knowledge  of  the  refraction  of  light  may  be  of  great  im- 
portance to  boys  or  lady-bathers.  We  shall  subjoin  a  few  remarks  from 
"  Cyclopaedic  Science,"  and  a  practical  hint  on  the  subject  : — 

"When  a  ray  of  light  passes  from  one  medium  to  another  of  the  same 
density,  and  in  a  perfectly  straight  line,  no  alteration  of  its  course  takes 
place  ;  but  if  the  light  passes  in  an  oblique  direction,  its  course  is  broken 
or  refracted— i.e.,  bent  back  from  its  natural  path.  To  this  branch  of 
optics,  which  includes,  perhaps,  the  widest  field  of  inquiry,  and  traces  the 
propagation  of  light  through  transparent,  solid,  liquid,  and  gaseous  bodies, 
has  been  given  the  name  of 

Dioptrics. 

"  To  prove  that  a  straight  line  representing  a  ray  of  light  is  really  bent 
when  passing  from  a  rare  medium,  air,  into  a  denser  one,  such  as  water, 
nothing  is  easier  than  to  place  a  bright  shilling  on  the  end  of  an  ivory 
paper-knife,  which  is  inclined  in  a  large  empty  tumbler.  On  looking  down 
the  paper-knife  a  straight  line  only  is  apparent,  terminating  with  the  coin  ; 
but  if  the  tumbler  is  filled  with  water  whilst  the  observer  is  still  looking 
down  the  flat  surface,  he  will  notice  that  at  the  point  of  juncture  between 
the  air  and  water  a  break  takes  place,  and  the  end  of  the  paper-knife,  or 
all  that  part  immersed,  appears  to  be  lifted  up  or  bent  upwards  from  its 


Reflection  of  Light. 


natural  course  or  direction.     If  a  small  pocket-pistol  were  now  aimed  at 
the  coin  and  the  bullet  discharged  it  would  certainly  miss,  because  even- 
visible  object  appears  to  be  in  a 


A  Simple  demonstration  of  the  property 
of  Refraction. 


direction  represented  by  a  straight 
line  drawn  from  it  to  the  eye.  A 
straight  line  ruled  to  the  shilling 
would  not  touch  it,  the  line  must 
be  ruled  to,  or  the  pistol  aimed  at, 
a  point  nearer  to  the  spectator 
than  the  apparent  position  of  the 
coin." 

This  refraction  of  light  causes 
a  river  or  stream  to  appear  much 
more  shallow  than  it  really  is,  be- 
cause the  light  of  the  bottom  of 
the  river  is  refracted  as  it  comes 
out  of  the  water,  and  the  bottom 
consequently  appears  much  nearer 
to  the  surface  than  it  really  is.  The 
old  "  Sandford  and  Merton"  ex- 


periment of  placing  a  shilling  in  a  bowl  and  moving  away  till  you  lose 
sight  of  it,  and  then  getting  some  one  to  pour  water  in  on  it,  which  brings 
it  to  your  view  again  immediately,  by  ref?'action,  will  exhibit  this  delusion, 
which  it  is  well  for  boys  and  young-lady  swimmers  to  know.  A  river  is 
always  one-third  deeper  than  it  seems  to  be. 


REFLECTION    OP   LIGHT. 

The  rays  of  light  are  reflected  from  substances  which  are  light  and 
brilliant,  as  glass,  crystals,  steel,  etc.  Other  substances  absorb  light,  and 
always  appear  dark  and  dull. 

We  see  ourselves  in  a  mirror  by  the  reflected  rays  of  light  from  our 
own  face,  which,  striking  the  surface,  are  reflected  back  to  our  eyes.  The 
reason  of  this  is,  that  the  rays  cannot  pass  through  the  metal  with  which 
the  back  of  the  glass  is  covered,  and  therefore,  are  tftrown  back  in  reflec- 
tion. Looking-glass  is  an  excellent  reflector  of  light,  water  is  a  good 
one,  and  polished  metal  also ;  therefore  before  glass  was  known,  the 
maiden  gazed  at  her  face  in  a  limpid  stream,  or  decked  her  tresses  by  the 
reflection  of  a  polished  steel  mirror. 

Light  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  health.  Mothers  should  beware 
of  a  dark  nursery  ;  neither  animals  nor  plants  will  flourish  in  dark  places. 
It  is  to  light  that  we  owe  the  beautiful  colours  which  deck  the  universe. 

Every  ray  of  light  contains  the  colours  of  the  rambow.  Some  things 
reflect  one  of  these  colours  and  some  another,  according  as  their  surface  is 
constructed,  physically  and  chemically.  The  swiftness  or  slowness  with 
which  the  undulations  of  ether  are  thrown  back  from  surfaces  causes 
colour.  Quick  undulations  produce  bine,  violet,  and  their  different  shades. 
in  order  to  produce  the  violet  colour,  the  undulations  of  ether  must  be 
699  millions  of  millions  in  a  second  of  time.  Slow  undulations  produce 
red ;  the  ether  being  thrown  off  the  surface  of  the  body  at  the  rate  of 
477  millions  of  millions  of  vibrations  in  a  second. 


o4 


Artificial  Light, 


Yellow  is  the  medium  of  undulations  between  blue  and  red.  Red., 
blue,  and  yellow  are  the  three  primary  colours,  the  others  are  compounds 
of  them  and  affected  by  the  same  laws. 

Black  objects  are  without  colour,  because  their  surfaces  will  not  reflect 
at  all  the  undulations  of  ether  which  touch  them,  and  which  consequently 
cease.  White  objects  set  in  motion  all  the  undulations  of  ether,  so  as  to 
reflect  all  the  rays  together,  the  effect  of  which  is  to  produce  white  light. 

There  are  of  course  many  colouring  matters  in  existence,  that  is,  matters 
which  affect  these  undulations  of  ether.  Chlorophyll,  for  example,  which 
gives  the  green  colour  to  leaves  and  is 
formed  by  the  agency  of  the  sun's  rays  ; 
vegetation  grown  out  of  sunlight  is  yel- 
low and  faded-looking. 


ARTIFICIAL    LIGHT. 

Artificial  light  has  next  to  be  con- 
sidered ;  and  here  the  science  of  che- 
mistry has  been  of  the  greatest  service 
to  man.  In  all  ages,  when  science  was 
little  known,  men  provided  themselves 
with  artificial  light.  Probably  the  first 
lights  used  were  torches  of  dry  and 
resinous  woods,  but  veiy  early  the  use  of 
oil  for  the  purpose  was  discovered.  It 
was  olive-oil  which  fed  the  golden  can- 
dlesticks in  the  Tabernacle,  and  in  tombs 
of  the  greatest  antiquity  oil  lamps  have 
been  frequently  found. 

Many  other  vegetable  oils  besides 
that  of  the  olive-tree  exist,  and  have 
been  used  for  light.  Nuts  and  almonds 
yield  a  pure  sweet  smelling  oil :  so  do 
seeds  of  flax,  hemp,  and  rape. 

The  cocoa-nut  and  the  fruit  of  the 
African  palm  give  us  oil ;  animals  and 
minerals  also  supply  it ;  the  sperm 
whale  affords  sperm  oil ;  it  may  also  be 
obtained  from  the  pilchard.  Mineral 
oils  are  of  peculiar  lustre  and  brilliancy  ; 
naphtha,  pitch,  asphalte,  all  burn.  Petro- 
leum springs  have  yielded  a  new  supply 
of  light. 

A  wax  myrtle  grows  in  Louisiana, 
from  which  berries  enough  may  be 
gathered  in  a  day  to  make  eight  pounds 
of  tallow,  which  is  much  harder  and 
purer  than  common  tallow. 

The  candleberry  myrtle  of  the 
United  States  has  its  fruit  or  nuts  covered  with  a  waxy  secretion,  which 


Young  Wax  Palm. 


Artificial  Light. 


may  be  readily  separated  and  manufactured  into  candles.  This  wax  has 
long  been  an  article  of  commerce. 

The  Wax-palm  and  the  Wax-tree  of  Japan,  again,  assist  us  in  pro- 
curing artificial  light ;  the  candles  made  with  it  are  coated  with  bees  - 
wax.  Bornean  vegetable  tallow,  chemically  treated,  yields  a  valuable  pro- 
duct for  the  same  purpose. 

Candles  were  at  first  made  by  dipping  ropes,  rushes,  or  the  papyrus 
fibre  into  grease  or  wax.  They  are  of  great  antiquity.  Egyptian  candles 
have  been  discovered,  and  Roman  ones  have  been  found  in  Shropshire. 

The  time-measuring  candles  of  Alfred  the  Great  are  well  known.  Rush- 
lights are  of  the  greatest  antiquity  of  all  candles.  In  the  last  century  the 
poor  in  England  and  Ireland  used  no  other  candles,  and  they  were  of 
home  manufacture. 

Gilbert  White,  in  his  "  Natural  Histoiy  of  Selborne,"  gives  the  follow- 
ing account  of  this  manufacture  of  our  forefathers  : — 

"  The  proper  species  is  the  common  soft  rush,  found  in  most  pastures 
by  the  sides  of  streams  and  under  hedges.  Decayed  labourers,  women, 
and  children  gather  these  rushes  late  in  summer.  As  soon  as  they  are 
cut,  they  must  be  flung  into  water,  and  kept  there,  otherwise  they  will  dry 
and  shrink,  and  the  peel  will  not  run.  When  peeled,  they  must  lie  on  the 
grass  to  be  bleached,  and  take  the  dew  for  some  nights,  after  which  they 
are  dried  in  the  sun.  Some  address  is  required  in  dipping  these  rushes 
into  the  scalding  fat  or  grease.  The  careful  wife  of  an  industrious  Hamp- 
shire labourer  obtains  all  her  fat  for  nothing,  for  she  saves  the  scummings 
of  her  bacon-pot  for  this  use  ;  and  if  the  grease  abound  with  salt  she 
causes  the  salt  to  precipitate  to  the  bottom  by  setting  the  scummings  in  a 
warm  oven.  A  pound  of  common  grease  may  be  procured  for  fourpence, 
and  about  six  pounds  of  grease  will  dip  a  pound  of  rushes,  which  cost  one 
shilling,  so  that  seven  pounds  of  rushlights  will  cost  three  shillings.  If 
persons  who  keep  bees  will  mix  a  little  wax  with  the  grease  it  will  give  a 
consistency,  render  it  more  cleanly,  and  make  the  rushes  burn  longer ; 
mutton  suet  will  have  the  same  effect.  A  pound  avoirdupois  contains 
iooo  rushes  ;  and,  supposing  each  to  burn  on  an  average  but  half-an-hour, 
then  a  poor  man  will  purchase  500  hours  of  light — nearly  twenty-one 
entire  days — for  three  shillings.  According  to  this  account,  each  rush 
before  dipping,  costs  one  thirty-third  of  a  farthing,  and  one-eleventh  after- 
wards. Thus,  a  poor  family  will  enjoy  five-and-a-half  hours  of  comfortable 
light  for  a  farthing." 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  rushes  supplied  a  poor  family  of  that  period  with 
light  for  a  year. 

Tallow-dips  came  next,  probably,  in  the  course  of  candle  progress. 
In  them,  cotton  is  substituted  for  rushes  as  the  wick,  the  mode  of  making 
them  being  much  the  same.  Lengths  of  cotton  are  cut  off,  hung  up  by  a 
loop,  dipped  into  melted  tallow,  taken  out  again,  and  cooled ;  then 
re-dipped  until  enough  tallow  has  been  accumulated  round  the  wick- 
cotton.  Dips  were  followed  by  moulds.  A  frame  with  a  number  of  moulds 
the  size  of  the  intended  candles  is  made.  A  wick  is  passed  down  each 
mould  to  the  bottom  where  it  is  pegged  in — the  little  peg  holding  the 
cotton  tight  and  stopping  the  aperture  so  that  no  fluid  shall  run  through. 
The  tallow  is  then  melted  and  the  moulds  are  filled.  After  a  while,  the 
moulds  cool,  the  excess  of  tallow  is  poured  off  at  one  corner,  and  then 


86  Artificial  Light. 


cleaned  off  altogether  and  the  ends  of  the  wick  cut  away.  The  candles 
can  then  be  easily  lifted  from  the  mould,  as  they  are  narrower  at  the  top 
than  the  bottom. 

The  Russian  tallow,  suet  or  fat  of  the  ox,  of  which  dips  and  old- 
fashioned  mould  candles  were  made,  was  converted,  by  Gay-Lussac,  into 
the  substance  known  to  us  by  the  name  of  stearine,  in  the  following 
manner. — Fat,  or  tallow,  consists  of  a  chemical  combination  of  fatty  acids, 
with  glycerine.  It  is  first  boiled  with  quick-lime,  which  unites  with  the  pal- 
mitic, olive,  and  stearic  acids,  and  separates  the  glycerine.  Thus  a  soap  is 
made.  This  is  decomposed  by  sulphuric  acid,  which  takes  away  the  lime  ; 
the  melted  fatty  acids  rise  to  the  surface,  where  they  are  decanted.  They 
are  again  washed  and  cast  into  thin  plates  which,  when  cold,  are  placed 
between  layers  of  cocoa-nut  matting,  and  submitted  to  intense  hydraulic 
pressure.  In  this  way  the  olive  acid,  which  is  soft,  is  pressed  out,  and  the 
hard  palmitic  and  stearic  acids  remain.  These  are  again  purified  by 
pressure  at  a  higher  temperature,  and  by  washing  in  warm  diluted  sul- 
phuric acid,  when  they  are  ready  to  be  made  into  candles,  and  are 
harder,  whiter,  cleaner/  and  more  combustible  than  the  fats  from  which 
they  are  obtained. 

Wax  candles  cannot  be  cast  as  tallow  are.  To  make  them,  a  number  of 
cottons  are  hung  on  frames,  and  covered  with  metal  tags  at  the  ends  to  keep 
the  wax  from  covering  the  cotton.  Melted  wax  is  then  poured,  by  a  man, 
over  them ;  the  frame  being  brought  close  to  the  wax-heater.  When  the  first 
wax  is  cold  a  second  coat  is  given,  and  so  on  till  the  candles  are  as  thick 
as  they  are  required  to  be.  When  finished,  they  are  taken  down  and  well 
rolled  upon  a  fine  stone  slab  ;  the  conical  top  is  moulded  by  properly- 
shaped  tubes,  and  the  bottoms  cut  off  and  trimmed.  The  wicks  of  tallow 
candles  require  snuffing  because  they  are  never  quite  consumed  in  the 
flame,  the  outer  cone  preventing  a  sufficient  supply  of  oxygen  reaching  it 
for  complete  combustion.  Wax  and  composite  candles  do  not  require 
snuffing,  because  the  wick  is  so  plaited  as  to  bend  into  the  outer  cone  of 
the  flame  where  it  is  completely  consumed.  This  cannot  be  done  with 
tallow  candles,  because  this  bending  of  the  wick  into  the  outer  cone  would 
melt  the  tallow  on  one  side  too  quickly,  and  cause  the  candle  to  gutter; 
tallow  melting  at  a  much  lower  temperature  than  wax  or  stearine. 

The  continuous  flame  of  the  candle  is  caused  by  the  heated  wick  de- 
composing the  wax  or  tallow,  and  forming  vapour  of  water  and  carbonic 
acid  gas.  The  hydrogen  of  the  candle  combining  with  the  oxygen  of  the 
air  forms  the  former ;  the  carbon  of  the  candle  combining  with  the  oxygen 
forms  the  carbonic  acid  gas. 

As  the  air  comes  to  the  candle,  it  moves  upwards  by  the  force  of  the 
current  which  the  heat  of  the  candle  produces,  and  cools  all  the  sides  of 
the  wax  or  tallow,  so  that  it  keeps  the  edges  much  cooler  than  the  part 
within  ;  the  part  within  is  heated  by  the  flame  which  runs  down  the  wick 
as  far  as  it  can  go  before  it  is  extinguished,  and  forms  a  little  cup  of  liquid 
tallow  or  wax,  while  the  edges  never  melt.  Of  course,  if  by  leaning  the 
candle  on  one  side,  a  current  of  air  is  made  in  a  slanting  direction,  the 
cup  will  become  lopsided  and  the  fluid  will  run  over,  or  gutter,  as  it  is 
called. 

The  horizontal  formation  of  this  cup  is  of  the  first  importance,  for  if  it 
be  not  horizontal  the  fluid  will  run  away  in  guttering. 


Artificial  Light.  87 

Fluted  candles  are  not  good  for  burning  on  this  account ;  they  have 
not  the  nicely  formed  edge  to  the  cup,  which  is  the  perfection  of  a  candle, 
and  consequently  prove  wasteful  from  guttering.* 

The  fuel  for  the  flame  is  this  melted  part  of  the  candle  which  is  carried 
up  the  wick  by  capillary  attraction — which  we  have  already  explained 
in  a  note  at  p.  59.  Capillary  attraction  is  sometimes  unpleasantly  but  well 
exemplified  by  some  careless  person  leaving  the  corner  of  a  towel  in 
water — the  water,  by  the  power  of  capillary  attraction,  spreads  all  over  the 
towel  and  wets  it  through.  In  the  like  manner,  water  rises  through  a 
sponge,  or  a  lump  of  sugar.  Thus  the  melted  tallow  ascends  the  wick ; 
other  particles  follow  from  their  mutual  attraction  to  each  other,  and  arc 
gradually  consumed.  Whenever  the  flame  descends  into  the  melted  tallow 
it  is  instantly  extinguished,  therefore  the  flame  remains  in  the  place 
where  we  always  see  it. 

The  flame  of  a  candle  consists  of  three  cones  ;  the  inner  or  hollow 
cone,  in  which  no  combustion  takes  place,  and  which  is  filled  with  invisible 
vapour  raised  from  the  candle  by  the  heat  of  the  wick,  and  which  cannot 
burn  because  it  does  not  come  in  contact  with  the  outer  air ;  an  interme- 
diate cone,  where  hydrogen  is  chiefly  consumed  with  particles  of  carbon 
which  it  raises  to  a  white  heat  (from  thence  the  light  chiefly  proceeds) ;  and 
the  outer  cone  in  which  the  carbon  is  consumed.  The  flame  of  a  candle 
produces  light  because  the  chemical  changes  made  by  combustion  excite 
undulations  of  luminous  ether  which,  striking  the  eye,  produce  light.  The 
light  of  the  flame  is  yellow,  because  that  is  the  colour  of  carburetted  hy- 
drogen when  burning ;  and  here  we  may  observe  that  yellow  rays  pro- 
duce the  greatest  amount  of  light,  as  red  rays  produce  the  greatest  amount 
of  heat. 

The  flame  of  a  candle  is  of  an  oblong  shape,  brighter  at  the  top  than 
towards  the  bottom  ;  it  is  carried  upwards  by  the  ascending  air,  which, 
heated  by  the  candle,  goes  rapidly  upwards. '  The  darker  parts,  towards 
the  bottom  of  the  flame,  are  particles  of  the  fuel  not  in  a  perfect  state  of 
ignition. 

Certain  products  result  from  the  combustion  of  a  candle.  One  of 
these  products  is  charcoal,  or  soot.  Some  of  our  readers  may  have  seen 
etchings  done  on  a  card  rapidly  passed  through,  or  over  a  lighted  candle, 
till  it  is  shaded  black,  or  dark  brown,  with  soot.  But,  if  the  candle  burns 
well,  that  is,  if  the  combustion  is  perfect,  no  smoke  or  soot  will  proceed 
from  it ;  soot  being,  as  we  have  said,  the  escape  of  unconsumed  fuel. 

Water  also  is  produced  from  the  flame  of  a  candle — i.e.,  vapour  of 
water  which,  if  cooled,  will  condense  as  water.  Water  is  likewise  pro- 
duced from  the  combustion  of  gas  and  from  that  of  oil — a  pint  of  oil  fairly 
and  properly  burned  produces  rather  more  than  a  pint  of  water.  In  fact, 
all  combustible  substances  which  burn  with  a  flame  produce  vapour  of 
water,  which  may  be  condensed  if  anything  cold  enough  is  held  over  it. 

The  combustion  of  a  candle  also  produces,  as  we  have  said,  carbonic 


*  The  action  of  the  ascending  current  of  air  on  the  outside  of  a  candle  may  be 
seen  when  it  has  guttered.  The  thickened  piece  at  the  side  forms  a  little  pillar, 
as  the  candle  goes  on  burning,  because  as  it  rises  higher  above  the  rest  of  the 
tallow  or  wax,  the  air  gets  better  round  it  and  it  is  more  cooled. 


88  Artificial  Light. 


acid  gas,  very  often  called  fixed  air,*  and  evolves  heat  from  it  precisely  as 
we  by  breathing  make  heated  carbonic  acid  gas,  and  thus  feed  the  animal 
heat.  The  candle  cannot  burn  without  oxygen  ;  neither  can  we  live  with- 
out oxygen,  as  we  have  before  observed. 

A  lamp  burns  on  the  same  principle  as  a  candle,  and  is  probably  long 
prior  to  it  in  antiquity. 

The  oil  is  the  fuel  which,  by  capillary  attraction,  ascends  the  wick  and 
is  consumed  by  the  carbon  combining  with  the  oxygen  of  the  air.  The 
Argand  lamp  is  remarkable  for  its  excellent  combustion.  A  current  of  air 
is  made  to  pass  through  the  middle  of  the  flame,  in  consequence  of"  which 
the  carbon  of  the  interior  of  the  flame  is  consumed  as  well  as  that  in  the 
outer  coating.  These  lamps  do  not  smoke,  because  the  combustion  is 
perfect.  Lamp-glasses  diminish  the  smoke  from  lamps  by  producing  a 
draught,  which  supplies  more  oxygen  to  the  flame  ;  they  also  concentrate 
and  reflect  the  heat  of  the  flame,  thus  helping  its  combustion. 

Lamps  smoke,  either  because  the  wick  is  turned  up  too  high  and  more 
carbon  is  separated  from  it  than  can  be  consumed  by  the  flame,  or  from 
the  wick  having  been  cut  unevenly.  When  this  is  the  case,  the  points  of 
the  jagged  edge  project  into  the  flame  where  there  is  not  enough  oxygen 
to  consume  the  carbon  and,  of  course,  cause  smoke. 

Candles  and  lamps  will  often  spirt  when  rain  is  at  hand.  This  is 
caused  by  the  air  being  filled  with  vapour  which  penetrates  the  wick, 
where,  being  formed  into  steam,  it  expands  suddenly,  and  produces  a  little 
explosion. 

We  cannot  conclude  these  few  remarks  about  the  combustion  of  carbon 
without  adding  to  them  a  passage  from  Professor  Faraday's  admirable 
lectures  on  the  "Chemical  History  of  a  Candle,"  which  we  recommend  to 
the  perusal  of  our  readers.  He  is  speaking  of  the  creation  of  carbonic  acid 
gas  :— 

"  You  will  be  astonished  when  I  tell  you  what  this  curious  play  of 
carbon  amounts  to.  A  candle  will  burn  some  four,  five,  six,  or  seven  hours. 
What  then  must  be  the  daily  amount  of  carbon  going  up  into  the  air  in 
the  way  of  carbonic  acid  ?  What  a  quantity  of  carbon  must  go  from  each 
of  us  in  respiration  ?  A  man,  in  twenty-four  hours,  converts  as  much  as 
seven  ounces  of  carbon  into  carbonic  acid  ;  a  milch  cow  will  convert 
seventy  ounces,  and  a  horse  seventy-nine  ounces,  solely  by  the  act  of 
respiration  ;  that  is,  the  horse  in  twenty-four  hours  burns  seventy-nine 
ounces  of  charcoal,  or  carbon,  in  his  organs  of  respiration  to  supply  his 
natural  warmth  in  that  time.  All  the  warm-blooded  animals  get  their 
warmth  in  this  way,  by  the  conversion  of  carbon,  not  in  a  free  state,  but 
in  a  state  of  combination.  And  what  an  extraordinary  notion  this  gives  us 
of  the  alterations  going  on  in  our  atmosphere.  As  much  as  5,000,000 
pounds,  or  548  tons  of  carbonic  acid  is  formed  by  respiration  in  London 
alone  in  twenty-four  hours.  And  where  does  all  this  go  ?  Up  into  the  air. 
If  the  carbon  had  been  like  the  lead  which  I  showed  you,  or  the  iron 
which,  in  burning,  produces  a  solid  substance,  what  would  happen  ?  Com- 
bustion could  not  go  on.     As  charcoal  arises  it  becomes  a  vapour  and 


*  It  was  so  called  by  Dr.  Black  because  it  is  found  fixed  in  chalks,  shells, 
corals,  and  all  limestones.     Marble  is  a  compound  of  carbonrc  acid  and  lime. 


Water. 


S9 


passes  off  into  the  atmosphere  which  is  the  great  vehicle,  the  great  carrier 
for  conveying  it  away  to  other  places.  Then  what  becomes  of  it  ?  Won- 
derful it  is  to  find  that  the  change  produced  by  respiration,  which  seems  so 
injurious  to  us  (for  we  cannot  breathe  air  twice  over),  is  the  very  life  and 
support  of  plants  and  vegetables  that  grow  upon  the  surface  of  the  earth. 
It  is  the  same  also  under  the  surface  in  the  great  bodies  of  water  ;  for  fishes 
respire  upon  the  same  principle,  though  not  exactly  by  contact  with  the 
open  air."* 

WATER. 

Water  is  another  of  the  great  agents  of  life.  Without  it  the  whole 
world  must  perish.  On  its  uses  we  have  no  occasion  to  dilate.  It  is  one 
individual  thing.  It  never  changes.  It  can  be  added  to  by  careful  adjust- 
ments for  a  little  while  ;  it  can  be  taken  apart  and  analysed,  but  it  always 
remains  water >  either  in  a  solid,  liquid,  or  gaseous  state.  It  can  be  cooled 
into  solid  ice,  or  heated  into  vapour,  but  it  may  always  be  restored  to  its 
original  state  by  thawing  or  condensation.  In  both  cases  of  transformation 
it  gains  a  wonderful  increase  of  volume.  As  ice,  it  swells  so  violently  that 
it  will  burst  iron  ;  and  as  steam,  it  expands  and  evaporates  in  a  manner 
which  reminds  one  of  the  genius  the  fisherman  released  from  a  bottle  in  the 
"Arabian  Nights  ;"  or  if  restrained,  it  becomes  the  mighty  and  dangerous 
power  which  science  has  chained  and  fettered  to  man's  chariot  wheels. 
A  knowledge  of  the  expansion  of  water  by  cold  may  save  many  do- 
mestic inundations  in  the  time  of  severe  frost.  The 
-water  pipes  should  be  kept  (if  possible)  warm  enough 
to  prevent  the  water  freezing  ;  the  taps  should  be  half 
turned,  to  let  it  drip  a  little.  The  jugs  and  bottles,  in 
bedrooms  which  have  no  fires,  should  only  be  half 
filled  with  water. 

Water  becomes  ice  at  a  temperature  of  32  degrees. 
It  is  a  remarkable  exception  to  the  general  rule  that 
cold  contracts  the  volume  of  liquids.  "Water  which 
becomes  solid  in  all  parts  of  the  globe  at  the  level  of 
the  sea  at  320  Fahrenheit,  or  of  o°  Centigrade,"  says 
Professor  Pepper,"  expands  instead  of  contracting  when 
the  water  reaches  a  temperature  of  400  Fahrenheit,  and 
falls  to  320  :  the  amount  of  expansion  is  not  very  great, 
being  one  part  in  ten  thousand  at  320." 

But  the  fact,  which  at  first  was  thought  illusory,  is 
indisputable,  as  proved  by  the  experiments  of  Dr.  Hope. 
He  placed  two  thermometers  in  a  large  vessel  of  water, 
the  one  being  at  the  top,  and  the  other  at  the  bottom. 
Up  to  a  temperature  of  400,  the  cold  water  contracted, 
and,  being  the  heavier,  sank  to  the  bottom,  and  the  lower 
thermometer  registered  the  greatest  cold.  After  400 
was  passed,  the  water  evidently  expanded  ;  the  coldest 
to  be  at  the  top,  and  duly  recorded  by  the  thermo- 


Dr.  Hope's  expe- 
riment. 


water  was  found 


meter  sinking: 


to  32  ,  whilst  the  warmer  water,  which  ought,  according 


Chemical  History  of  a  Candle,"  pp.  165,  166. 


D°  Composition  of  Water. 


to  the  law  of  expansion,  to  have  been  uppermost,  remains  at  the  bottom, 
and  therefore  was  heavier,  bulk  for  bulk,  than  the  water  about  to  crystal- 
lize. It  is  this  remarkable  exception  that  preserves  the  fish  in  the  lakes 
and  rivers.  During  the  severe  winters  of  Siberia  the  water  is  frozen  many 
feet  thick  ;  but  it  is  related  by  one  of  the  exiles  in  this  roomy  but  severe 
prison,  that  part  of  their  amusement  in  certain  seasons  consisted  in  fishing 
in  great  holes  in  the  ice,  and  all  they  caught  they  partially  but  immediately 
ate  raw  and  living,  biting  out  a  piece  of  the  back,  which  was  declared  to 
be  a  most  agreeable  tit-bit. 

"  It  is  evident  that  the  fish,  if  frozen,  could  have  no  power  cf  locomotion 
— they  must  die ;  so  that  on  the  arrival  of  winter  the  Siberian  waters 
would  throw  up  their  dead  fish,  as  all  would  be  killed  if  the  water,  which 
is  a  very  bad  conductor  of  heat,  did  not  remain  at  400  at  the  bottom  of  the 
lakes,  rivers,  and  seas. 

"  Bismuth  is  said  to  possess  the  same  curious  property  of  expanding 
whilst  it  is  being  cooled,  and  thus  iron  bottles  filled  with  melted  bismuth, 
and  plugged  with  a  screw,  burst  at  the  moment  the  metal  assumes  a  solid 
state." 

This  expansion  of  ice  is  supposed  to  be  caused  by  the  ice-crystals  not 
fitting  as  closely  to  each  other  as  the  particles  of  water  do. 

Ice  is  considerably  lighter  than  water  ;  it  floats  on  the  surface  of 
streams  and  ponds  while  the  water  flows  beneath  it,  and  is  not  chilled  by 
the  ice  into  freezing,  when  the  surface  is  once  covered  ;  for  as  we  have 
said  before,  water  is  a  bad  conductor  of  heat  or  cold,  and  the  ice  acts  as 
a  shield  to  prevent  the  cold  air  freezing  the  river  by  convection.  We  see 
divine  wisdom  in  this  law,  for  if  the  ice  were  a  good  conductor  of  cold,  or 
if  it  were  heavier  than  water  and  were  to  sink  to  the  bottom,  rivers  would 
become  blocks  of  solid  ice  which  no  heat  could  thaw,  and  all  creatures 
inhabiting  them  would  perish.  As  it  is,  the  ice  preserves  the  water  fluid 
for  us  in  the  severest  weather.  Of  course  the  ice  thickens  in  protracted 
cold,  because  the  heat  of  the  water  immediately  beneath  escapes  through 
its  pores  into  the  cold  air  ;  but  our  English  frosts  never  last  long  enough 
to  allow  this  slow  conduction  to  convert  the  whole  of  a  large  body  of  water 
into  ice. 

Water  is  composed  of  two  gases,  oxygen  and  hydrogen — eight  parts 
oxygen  to  one  part  hydrogen.  It  is  fluid  because  its  particles  are  kept 
separate  by  latent  heat.  When  a  certain  quantity  of  this  heat  has  been 
driven  out  the  water  becomes  solid — that  is,  ice.  We  speak  of  water  as 
salt  or  brackish  water,  hard  water,  and  soft  water.  Salt  water  is  that  of 
the  sea,  which  holds  in  solution  a  quantity  of  saline  matters.  Hard  water 
is  that  obtained  from  springs  in  the  ground,  from  rivers,  pumps,  and  wells. 
Soft  water  is  that  of  rain. 

"Water  is  presented  to  us  in  nature  having  different  degrees  of  purity  ; 
hence  we  speak  of  hard  or  soft  water.  The  former  may  contain  calcium 
carbonate  and  sulphate,  magnesium  carbonate  and  sulphate,  sodium 
sulphate  and  chloride,  and  many  other  substances,  in  considerable  quan- 
tities, especially  if  the  water  flowing  into  the  well  be  derived  chiefly  from 
surface  drainage.  When  rain-water  has  been  collected  after  several  hours' 
tain,  it  is  almost  in  a  state  of  purity,  containing  then  only  certain  gaseous 
matters  in  solution  :  such  water  is  usually  called  soft,  because  it  is  free  from 
the  salts  a-!readv  mentioned.     If  the  rain-water  be  collected  after  a  lon^ 


Distilled  Water. 


9* 


drought,  it  may  then  contain  nitrates  and  salts  of  ammonium,  and,  if  near 
the  sea-side,  would  always  contain  sodium  chloride  or  common  salt." 

River-water  contains  a  less  proportion  of  saline  matters  in  solution  : 
it  is  not,  however,  so  good  to  drink  as  spring-water,  because  it  frequently 
occurs  that  rivers  receive  the  sewage  of  large  towns,  and  hence  the  water 
contains  organic  matter  in  solution,  and,  should  the  water  be  taken  whilst 
this  organic  matter  is  undergoing  decomposition,  very  serious  conse- 
quences may  result  to  the  person  drinking  it.  It  is  now,  however,  a  rule  in 
sanitary  matters  to  endeavour  to  divert  the  sewage  from  our  noble  rivers 
when  possible,  and  with  the  help  of  proper  filters  the  Thames  water  is 
now  potable  and  wholesome. 

All  rivers  flow  into  the  sea,  hence  sea-water  contains  a  larger  quantity 
of  sodium  chloride,  and  many  other  salts,  in  solution,  likewise  organic 
matter  ;  but,  curious  to  say,  it  remains  in  a  uniform  condition  so  far  as  the 
quantity  of  saline  matter  is  concerned,  and  the  specific  gravity  varies  little, 
the  mean  being  1*027,  pure  water  being  rooo. 


A  Still  placed  on  a  common  fire  or  fitted  to  a  proper  furnace. 
Both  the  Stills  have  worm  tubs  or  condensers. 


When  sea-water  or  any  other  hard  water  is  placed  in  a  still  and  boiled, 
the  earthy  or  saline  matters  are  left  behind,  and,  the  steam  only  being  con- 
densed, pure  water  is  obtained. 

Some  water  is  impregnated  with  lime,  some  with  salt,  some  with  iron. 
Mineral  springs  are  caused  by  the  water  in  its  passage  through  the  ground 
dissolving  and  absorbing  metallic  substances. 

It  is  difficult  to  wash  linen  in  hard  water  because  the  soda  of  the  soap 
combines  with  the  sulphuric  acid  of  the  salts  of  hard  water,  and  the  oil  of 
the  soap  with  the  lime,  and  then  it  floats  in  white  flakes  on  the  water. 

Wood  ashes  will,  however,  render  hard  water  soft.  The  carbonate  of 
potassa  in  the  ashes,  and  the  sulphate  of  lime  in  the  water  unite,  and  form 
into  sulphate  of  potassa  and  carbonate  of  lime ;  the  ashes  also  render 
some  of  the  soluble  salts  of  water  insoluble  ;  they  fall  to  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  or  tub  as  a  sediment,  and  thus  the  water  becomes  fit  to  use  for  wash- 
ing. It  will  then  cleanse  linen  by  dissolving  the  stains  on  it,  while  the  soap 
has  the  power  of  uniting  with  grease,  and  rendering  it  soluble  in  water. 

Water  that  has  run  through  chalk  is  the  worst  of  all  for  washing  pur- 


92  Rain  Wafer. — Snow. 

poses.     It  is  also  bad  for  cooking  vegetables  and  for  making  tea  ;  a  pinch 
of  soda  will  soften  it,  by  decomposing  the  earthy  salts  present  in  it. 

Water  flowing  from  granite  rock  is  the  purest :  slate  formations  also 
are  favourable  to  the  purity  of  water  flowing  from  them. 

Rain-water  is  soft  because  it  has  not  been  impregnated  with  earths  and 
minerals  ;  it  is  consequently  very  pleasant  to  use  for  washing.  It  dissolves 
the  soap,  instead  of  decomposing  it  as  hard  water  does. 

Rain-water  is  produced  chiefly  by  evaporation  from  the  seas,  but  it  is 
not  salt,  because  saline  matters  will  not  evaporate.  They  remain  in  the 
bed  of  the  ocean,  the  fresh  vapour  alone  ascending  from  it  into  the  cold  re- 
gions of  the  sky  ;  from  whence  when  condensed  by  cold  air  it  falls  in  rain. 

Rain-water  is  more  fertilizing  for  the  soil  than  pump  water.  It  contains 
more  carbonic  acid,  and  a  small  quantity  of  ammonia,  which  nourishes  the 
young  plants. 

Rain  is  in  fact  a  great  benefit  to  us,  not  only  for  "  watering  the  earth," 
but  because  it  dissolves  as  it  falls  all  noxious  exhalations  that  may  be  lin- 
gering in  the  air,  it  mixes  the  upper  air  with  the  air  of  the  lower  regions, 
and  washes  out  sewers  and  ditches,  the  stagnant  water  in  which  might 
bring  diseases. 

Rain  is  caused  by  a  cold  current  of  wind  condensing  the  vapour  of 
the  clouds  or  the  air,  and  precipitating  it  to  the  earth  in  drops.  The  va- 
poury particles  in  their  descent  attract  each  other,  and  those  which  are 
quite  near  unite  and  form  drops.  But  in  order  that  rain  may  fall,  the 
atmosphere  must  be  saturated  with  vapour  ;  unless  this  be  the  case  the 
vapour  will  be  held  in  solution  in  spite  of  the  cold  currents. 

A  passing  cloud  coming  in  contact  with  cold  air  is  condensed  and  falls 
in  rain.  More  rain  falls  by  night  than  by  day,  because  the  cold  of  the 
night  condenses  the  air,  and  decreases  its  power  of  holding  vapour  in 
solution. 

Snow  is  the  vapour  of  the  air  condensed  by  a  cold  current  below  freez- 
ing point,  and  precipitated  as  a  shower  of  crystals.  It  is  of  great  service, 
for  it  nourishes  the  earth  and  keeps  it  warm.  It  is  a  very  bad  conductor, 
having  a  great  deal  of  air  in  its  crystals  ;  it  therefore  prevents  the  heat  of 
the  earth  passing  off  into  the  colder  air,  while  it  nourishes  the  soil  with  the 
carbonic  acid  it  contains,  which  passes  into  every  pore  of  the  ground  as 
the  snow  melts.  Hail  is  frozen  rain  ;  that  is,  rain  which  passing  through  a 
cold  current  or  layer  of  air  is  turned  into  ice.  Two  strata  of  clouds  of 
opposite  electricities,  and  two  currents  of  air,  are  the  causes  of  hail ;  the 
lower  cloud  containing  resinous  electricity  is  the  one  precipitated  as  hail. 

The  density  of  the  air  is  lowered  previous  to  a  storm  ;  this  is  shown  by 
the  rapid  fall  of  the  mercury  in  the  barometer  which  is  held  up  by  the  pres- 
sure of  the  atmosphere.  This  changed  condition  of  the  air  causes  some- 
times a  painful  oppression  ;  the  air  being  lighter  than  usual  does  not 
balance  the  air  in  our  bodies,  and  we  have  in  consequence  a  disagreeable 
feeling  of  distension.* 

Then  again  air  laden  with  vapour  has  less  oxygen,  and  in  fact  has  a  ten- 


*  This  distension  in  the  tissues  of  the  feet,  caused  by  the  rarefied  condition  of 
the  air  before  a  storm,  is  the  reason  of  corns  aching.  They  cannot  distend  equally 
with  the  softer  flesh,  and  thus  irritation  is  produced  in  the  fibrils  of  the  nerves. 


Spring   Water.  93 


dency  to  depress  the  nervous  system.  It  is  therefore  not  "  mere  fancy," 
as  it  is  often  called,  which  makes  sensitive  people  susceptible  of  changes  in 
the  weather.  All  animals  appear  listless  and  drowsy  when  rain  is  at  hand, 
because  the  air  is  supplying  less  oxygen.  Sheep  will  lie  under  a  hedge  ; 
horses  neigh  ;  cattle  low  from  the  same  cause.  Smoke  falls,  because  the 
air  is  not  dense  enough  to  keep  it  up. 

Moist  air  is  very  objectionable  to  the  housewife  for  another  cause — it 
rusts  her  bright  stoves  and  fire-irons.  The  oxygen  in  the  air  combines 
with  the  surface  of  the  metal  and  oxidises — that  is,  rusts— the  iron.  The 
only  way  to  prevent  iron  from  rusting  in  moist  air  is  to  grease  it — grease 
preventing  the  humidity  of  the  air  coming  in  contact  with  the  surface  of  the 
iron. 

The  oxygen  of  dry  air  will  not  rust  iron  ;  moisture  (or  a  very  great 
degree  of  heat)  is  necessary  to  bring  into  action  the  affinity  of  oxygen  for 
steel.  Copper  and  zinc  also  are  tarnished  by  oxidation.  The  oxygen 
from  moist  air  combines  with  the  surface  of  these  metals,  and  tarnishes 
them  ;  they  do  not  rust  as  steel  does.  Lead  is  rendered  dull  by  moist  air 
in  the  same  way,  and  silver  oxidizes  and  tarnishes.  Platinum  is  the  only 
metal  which  never  oxidizes  in  moist  air.  Gold  also  is  little  affected  by  the 
atmosphere  if  it — the  gold — be  quite  pure. 

We  must  now  speak  of  water  as  a  portion  of  our  food,  and  a  very  im- 
portant portion  it  is. 

It  is  contained  more  or  less  in  everything  we  eat ;  when  the  food  is  of 
a  dry  nature,  as  wheat,  peas,  oatmeal,  maize,  etc.,  more  drink  is  required. 

Spring-water  is  more  agreeable  to  drink  than  soft  water,  because  it  con- 
tains carbonic  acid  which  gives  it  the  life  and  sparkle  we  all  prefer,  and 
singularly  enough  the  acid  so  deadly  to  inhale  is  conducive  to  health  when 
drunk  in  water,  acting  as  a  refrigerant  and  allaying  irritability  of  stomach. 

The  carbonic  acid  is  produced  in  water  by  the  presence  of  bicarbonate 
of  lime  in  it.  It  escapes  very  quickly  into  the  air,  leaving  the  water  flat 
and  stale,  therefore  it  is  best  drunk  fresh  from  the  pump,  and  should  not 
be  let  stand  long  uncovered  before  using. 

The  quality  of  the  water  of  springs  depends  a  great  deal  on  the  soil 
through  which  they  pass ;  from  granite  and  slate  formations  it  is  very 
pure  ;  sandstone  is  inferior  in  this  respect,  while  lime  and  magnesia  ren- 
der the  water,  as  we  have  seen,  very  hard,  and  if  found  in  large  quantities, 
make  it  injurious  to  health.  Hard  water  is  found  most  commonly  to  con- 
tain chalk — i.e.,  carbonate  of  lime. 

If  the  presence  of  this  carbonate  is  suspected — and  it  will  lurk  in  clear 
bright  sparkling  filtered  water — it  may  be  tested  by  boiling,  when  the 
chalk  will  at  once  be  thrown  as  a  "  furr  "*  or  coating  on  the  inside  of  the 
vessel  in  which  it  has  been  boiled. 

If  the  lime  in  the  water,  however,  is  in  the  condition  of  the  sulphate, — 
that  is,  gypsum,  no  amount  of  boiling  will  precipitate  it.  The  only  thing 
then  to  be  done  is  to  put  carbonate  of  soda  into  the  water  in  sufficient 


*  This  furr  may  be  removed  from  kettles  by  boiling  in  them  a  little  sal  am- 
moniac. The  hydrochloric  acid  unites  with  the  lime  of  the  furr,  and  the  carbonic 
goes  to  the  ammonia.  Both  of  these  new  compounds  dissolve,  and  can  be  very  easily 
washed  away. 


94  Water. 

quantity  to  convert  the  sulphate  of  lime  into  the  carbonate.  If  the  water 
be  then  boiled  the  chalk  will  be  deposited  as  furr,  and  sulphate  of  soda 
will  be  left  in  the  water.  Hard  water  may  be  made  softer  by  exposure  to 
the  air  in  a  wide  vessel — as  a  flat  pan.  The  carbonic  acid  in  it  will 
escape  into  the  air,  and  the  mineral  salts  which  cause  its  hardness  will  sub- 
side. It  is  lime  and  magnesia  in  various  forms  which  cause  "hardness" 
in  water. 

Water  contaminated  by  lead  cisterns  or  pipes  has  proved  very  injurious. 
A  ninth  part  of  a  grain  of  lead  per  gallon  will  affect  the  health  of  a  whole 
family.  But  happily  this  injurious  substance  may  be  easily  removed  by 
filtering  the  water  through  sand. 

Water  may  be  purified  in  many  ways.  Pouring  it  from  a  height  into  a 
flat  pan,  so  as  to  allow  the  air  to  mix  with  it  will  improve  it.  Stirring  ir 
about  with  freshly-made  animal  charcoal  purifies  it.  You  can  purify  a 
gallon  of  water  with  twenty  drops  of  sulphuric  acid.  "An  ounce  of  powdered 
alum  dissolved  and  stirred  into  a  hogshead  of  putrid  water  will  precipitate 
the  foul  matter  in  a  few  hours,  and  render  it  pure  again." 

Chips  of  oak  wood  put  into  water  will  purify  it.  The  tannic  acid  in 
the  oak  effects  this  change.  The  worst  impurity  in  water  proceeds  from 
sewage,  which  is  apt  to  get  into  rivers  and  old  wells.  Nitrogenous  pro- 
ducts when  they  become  mixed  with  a  large  quantity  of  river  water,  absorb 
oxygen  and  are  slowly  converted  into  inorganic  matter,  the  nitrogen  they 
contain  being  converted  into  nitrous  and  nitric  acids.  These  acids  unite 
with  lime,  etc.,  and  form  nitrites  and  nitrates,  while  the  carbon  of  which 
they  were  composed  becomes  carbonic  acid.  The  hydrogen  in  them  is 
formed  into  water.  If  these  nitrites  or  nitrates  of  lime  and  magnesia  are 
found  in  any  water  used  for  drinking  purposes  it  should  be  avoided. 

Generally  water  had  better  be  filtered,  as  it  might  look  both  bright  and 
sparkling,  and  be  even  pleasant  to  the  taste,  and  yet  contain  many  impuri- 
ties. Filters  are  very  cheap — a  pretty  glass  one  resembling  an  hour-glass 
in  form,  can  be  bought  for  ys.  6d.  at  the  Crystal  Palace  ;  or  any  poor  man 
may  make  himself  one  in  accordance  with  the  directions  given  at  the  South 
Kensington  Museum,  which  we  transcribe  for  our  readers. 

The  Poor  Man^s  Filter  made  with  a  Flower-pot. — Plug  the  hole  at  the 
bottom,  but  not  too  tightly,  with  a  new  piece  of  sponge,  lay  over  it  powdered 
charcoal  two  inches  thick  ;  cover  this  with  a  layer  of  two  inches  of  clean 
sand  ;  put  on  that  a  layer  of  clean  coar sish  gravel  three  inches  deep. 

Carbonic  acid  can  be  forced  into  water  by  pressure  to  a  considerable 
extent ;  and  effervescing  draughts  are  made  upon  this  principle.  The  car- 
bonic acid  contained  in  the  drink  is  imprisoned  by  the  cork  and  thus 
forced  into  the  liquid  by  pressure,  and  absorbed  in  it.  But  when  the  cork 
is  removed  the  carbonic  acid  flies  off  in  bubbles  or  effervescence.  Soda 
water  contains  eight  times  its  bulk  of  carbonic  acid  gas  which  has  been 
forced  into  it  by  pressure  ;  of  course  when  it  is  uncorked  the  escape  of  the 
imprisoned  carbonic  acid  is  somewhat  vehement.  Ginger  beer  pops  from 
the  same  cause  when  opened,  because  carbonic  acid  has  been  forced  into 
it  by  tlie  cork.  All  vinous  fermentation  produces  carbonic  acid.  The 
presence  of  carbonic  acid  also  gives  a  pleasant  acid  taste  to  soda  water, 
ginger  beer,  champagne,  and  cider. 


Boiling  Water. 


95 


Carbonic  acid  dissolves  so  readily  in  water,  that  water  will  take  up  in 
solution  a  volume  of  this  gas  equal  to  itself. 

It  is  expelled  by  boiling,  therefore  boiled  water  always  tastes  flat  and 
insipid. 

Water  in  its  ordinary  state  contains  a  considerable  quantity  of  atmo- 
spheric air  dissolved  in  it.  It  contains  more  oxygen  than  we  find  in  the 
air  itself;  and  this  property  of  dissolving  a  large  proportion  of  oxygen 
renders  water  fit  to  be  the  dwelling  place  of  fish  and  other  creatures  which 
depend  on  it  for  the  oxygen  they  breathe. 

Water  contains  much  latent  heat.  This  can  be  proved  by  pouring 
cold  concentrated  sulphuric  acid  into  cold  water,  when 
chemical  action  evolves  the  latent  heat  of  the  water, 
and  the  mixture  becomes  extremely  hot ;  or  cold 
water  poured  on  lime  unites  with  the  lime,  and  be- 
coming solid  gives  off  its  latent  heat — which  is,  in 
fact,  required  to  keep  it  in  a  fluid  state.  In  water 
as  much  as  11400  of  heat  may  remain  latent.  Water, 
therefore,  requires  a  large  amount  of  heat  to  raise  its 
temperature,  the  greater  proportion  of  the  heat  applied 
to  it  entering  into  combination  with  it  as  latent  heat ; 
and  it  is  this  property  that  renders  water  capable  of 
cooling  us  to  a  great  extent.  No  other  liquid  when 
drank  cools  in  the  same  manner,  though  some  few  are 
better  for  cold  applications. 

Water  boils  at  a  temperature  of  2120  F.  under 
ordinaiy  conditions — i.e.,  when  the  pressure  of  the 
air  is  fifteen  pounds  upo?i  every  square  inch. 

But  when  the  pressure  is  reduced  by  ascending 
mountains,  where  of  course  the  column  of  air  above  is 
not  so  high,  water  will  boil  at  1840  F.  It  is  therefore 
possible  to  determine  elevations,  by  the  temperature 
of  the  boiling-point  of  water.  (See  the  adjoining  cut 
of  the  apparatus  used  for  the  purpose.) 

"The  pressure  of  the  air  is  represented  by  the 
height  at  which  a  column  of  mercury  is  supported  : 
when  the  mercury  is  i6'6  inches  high,  water  boils 
at  1840  F. ;  if  the  pressure  is  doubled,  and  the  co- 
lumn of  mercury  stands  at  32 '3  inches,  water  boils 
at  2 1 6°  F.  The  difference  between  i6"6  inches  and 
32*3  inches  is  very  great,  and  it  might  be  thought 


Apparatus  for  determining  Elevations  by  the  Temperature  of  th« 
Boiling-point  of  Water. 


Expansion  of  Water. 


that  such  a  fall  in  the  barometer  could  only  be  demonstrated  by  artificial 
means,  and  by  the  creation  of  a  partial  vacuum  with  an  air-pump.  But  it 
must  be  remembered  that  there  are  certain  spots  on"  the  surface  of  the 
globe  where  the  adventurous  traveller  may  ascend  nearly  three  miles  above 
the  level  of  the  sea. 

"  The  famous  De  Saussure  ascended  to  the  summit  of  Mont  Blanc, 
which  is  15,650  feet  above  the  level  of  the  sea,  and  where  water  boils  at  a 
temperature  of  185*8°  F.,  and  the  barometer  stands  at  about  seventeen 
inches.  The  boiling-point  of  water  is  lowered  about  one  degree  for  every 
590  ft.  De  Saussure's  observations  were  verified  by  Tyndall  in  August, 
1859,  when  the  temperature  of  boiling  water  at  the  summit  of  Mont 
Blanc  was  found  to  be  1 84-95°  F« 

"  It  is  by  the  careful  observation  of  the  temperature  at  which  water  boils 
that  the  height  of  any  hill  or  mountain  may  be  determined.  Since  Dr. 
Wollaston  constructed  his  instrument  for  measuring  heights  by  the  obser- 
vation of  the  boiling-point,  improvements  have  been  made,  as  shown  in 
figure  annexed." 

Water  simmers  before  it  boils.  This  is  caused  by  its  being  heated  by 
convection.  The  water  nearest  to  the  fire  becomes  hot  first,  and  being 
heated  rises,  while  its  place  is  supplied  by  the  colder  portion  above.  This 
is  in  its  turn  heated  and  rises  up  till  the  whole  body  of  water  boils  ; 
the  ascending  current  of  hot  water  rises  through  the  centre  of  the  mass, 
the  cold  currents  descend  by  the  metal  sides  of  the  kettle. 

It  is  necessary,  as  heated  water  thus  always  ascends  to  the  surface, 
that  heat  should  be  applied  to  the  bottom,  not  the  top  of  a  kettle  or  boiler  ; 
for  if  it  were  applied  to  the  top  of  a  kettle  the  water  below  the  surface 
would  never  boil.  If  it  is  desired  to  cool  a  liquid,  cold  must  be  applied  to 
the  top  of  the  vessel ;  for  cold  portions  always  descend  and  will  allow  the 
under  warm  portions  to  ascend  and  be  cooled  in  their  turn.  The  ascend- 
ing and  descending  currents  of  boiling  water  produce  the  agitation  called 
"  simmering."  The  bubbles  collapse  beneath  the  surface,  and  the  steam 
is  condensed  to  water  again.  When  it  boils  the  heated  bubbles  rise  to  the 
surface,  and  steam  is  thrown  off.  The  entangled  air  escaping  from  the 
water  produces  the  sound  called  "  singing,"  which  ceases  when  all  the 
water  boils. 

Water  expands,  as  we  have  said,  with  heat,  consequently  if  a  kettle  be 
quite  filled  with  cold  water  it  must  run  over  when  the  water  is  expanded 
by  heat.  Even  when  not  quite  filled  this  occasionally  happens  from  rapid 
boiling.  Steam  escaping  from  the  lid  and  spout  are  proofs  that  a  kettle 
boils.  Any  good  conductor  placed  in  it,  as  an  iron  spoon,  will  delay  the 
boiling  of  water,  by  carrying  off  a  portion  of  the  heat  to  itself.  Water 
that  boils  is  not  rendered  warmer  by  continued  boiling  after  it  has  reached 
the  boiling-point  21 2°,  it  only  escapes  in  steam — or,  as  the  housewife  says, 
"  boils  away."  Steam  ascends  as  vapour  into  the  higher  regions  of  the 
air.  It  is  really  invisible,  but  condensed  by  the  coldness  of  the  air  be- 
comes a  mist.  This  can  be  seen  by  any  one  observing  the  spout  of  a 
kettle — an  empty  space  will  be  observed  between  the  spout  and  the  little 
column  of  steam.  Steam  is  really  there  also,  but  is  invisible  because  the 
air  has  not  yet  chilled  it.  It  is  not  possible  to  boil  a  pot  of  water  by  im- 
mersing it  in  boiling  water,  though  gravy,  etc.,  may  be  warmed  thus  ; — the 
heat  is  never  sufficient,  but  brine,  which  boils  at  a  higher  temperature  will 


Temperature  of  Water  for  Drinking.  97 


boil  the  water  in  another  vessel  immersed  in  it.     Ether  can  be  boiled  in  a 
vessel  immersed  in  water,  because  it  boils  at  a  lower  temperature,  960. 

Water  is  best  kept  in  uncovered  cisterns,  because  the  air  prevents  or 
annihilates  putrefaction  by  supplying  it  with  oxygen.  It  should  never  be 
allowed  to  stagnate ;  the  water  in  the  cistern  should  be  drawn  off  and 
replaced  every  twenty-four  hours  if  possible. 

But  do  not  leave  a  cistern  or  tank  of  water  uncovered  near  any  offen- 
sively smelling  objects — if  it  is  in  the  scullery  or  near  a  dung  or  dirt  heap 
have  it  covered,  but  draw  it  off  frequently,  and  have  the  cistern  cleaned 
out  every  six  months  at  the  very  least. 

Boiling  water  is  an  admirable  way  of  purifying  it,  but  as  it  becomes 
very  flat  afterwards  by  losing  its  carbonic  acid,  aerate  it  again  by  pouring 
it  at  as  great  a  height  as  you  can  from  one  jug  to  another  six  times.  It 
will  then  be  fresh  and  sparkling. 

The  temperature  at  which  water  is  drank,  is  of  importance  in  a  sani- 
tary point  of  view.    Below  450  it  is  an  astringent :  at  6o°  a  diluent,  and 
of  use  for  removing  indigestion  ;  a  celebrated  gourmand  of  the  Regency ; 
was  accustomed  to  drink  a  wine-glass  of  water  at  6oc  after  his  dinner 
daily. 

Water  of  a  temperature  from  700  to  8o°,  drunk  the  first  thing  in  the 
morning,  is  an  excellent  antibilious  dose.  Water  is  cold  at  8o°  to  the 
hand  ;  it  is  tepid  from  86°  to  900,  at  ioo°  it  is  warm,  at  21 2°  boiling. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  tests  for  water  : — Proportion  a  few  drops  ' 
of  the  one  used  to  a  wine-glass  or  tumbler  of  water. 

To  detect  alkaline  carbonates  and  sulphates — a  solution  of  nitrate  of 
barytes.     If  they  are  in  the  water  it  will  cause  a  turbid  appearance. 

To  precipitate  lime  : — a  solution  of  oxalate  of  ammonia. 

Free  carbonic  acid  is  detected  by  an  appearance  of  milkiness  when  an 
equal  quantity  of  lime  water  is  added  to  the  water  tested.  Magnesium 
waters  possess  the  look  and  properties  of  magnesia.  If  the  presence  of 
magnesia  be  slight  and  only  suspected,  a  solution  of  carbonate  of  am- 
monia, followed  immediately  by  a  solution  of  potash  of  soda  may  be  used 
to  test  it ;  if  magnesia  be  in  the  water  it  will  become  milky.  Water  im- 
pregnated with  iron  is  called  chalybeate;  and  it  is  called  sulphurous 
when  impregnated  with  sulphuretted  hydrogen  gas. 

Pure  water  is  at  its  greatest  density,  or  heaviest,  at  390  of  Fahrenheit, 
that  is,  at  70  above  freezing  ;  if  the  temperature  rises  or  falls,  the  water 
expands. 

Salt  (sea)  water  may  be  rendered  fit  for  washing  purposes  by  adding 
soda  to  it.  The  soda  acts  by  decomposing  the  chlorides  of  calcium  and 
magnesium,  and  by  supplying  excess  of  free  soda  prevents  the  chloride  of 
sodium  from  injuring  the  soap.  When  it  is  thrown  in  the  water  it  will 
become  cloudy,  and  a  white  precipitate  will  be  thrown  down.  When  it  has 
settled  the  water  may  be  poured  off  for  use. 

Fermentation  is  a  change  effected  in  the  elements  of  a  body  com- 
posed of  carbon,  oxygen,  and  hydrogen  without  nitrogen.  This  change 
produces  alcohol  and  carbonic  acid,  and  if  the  process  be  continued  the 
alcohol  will  be  changed  into  acetic  acid  or  vinegar.  Alcohol  is,  we  all 
know,  spirit  :  the  carbonic  acid  produced  by  fermentation  causes  beer  or 
ale  to  be  brisk  and  sparkling  ;  if  suffered  to  escape  by  the  cask  being  left 
open  too  long,  the  malt  liquor  becomes  jfo/;  as  it  is  called. 

H 


98  Fermentation  and  Putrefaction, 


Without  fermentation  we  can  have  no  wine  nor  beer ;  yeast,  the  foam 
of  beer,  or  of  some  similar  liquor,  is  produced  by  fermentation,  and  con- 
sists of  a  substance  called  gluten,  undergoing  putrefaction,  in  which  con- 
dition it  possesses  the  property  of  exciting  fermentation.  It  is  the  presence 
of  nitrogen  in  it  which  gives  yeast  the  power  of  causing  fermentation, 
which  cannot  take  place  unless  the  gluten  is  in  a  putrefying  state. 

Yeast  is  put  into  the  infusion  of  malt  called  sweetwort,  to  make 
it  into  beer,  because  the  presence  of  a  putrefying  body,  containing 
nitrogen,  is  required  to  convert  sugar  into  alcohol,  and  by  it  the  sugar  of 
the  wort  is  changed  into  alcohol  and  carbonic  acid,  and  the  gluten  (of 
which  sweetwort  contains  a  great  deal)  is  changed  into  yeast. 

Grape-juice  contains  a  sufficient  quantity  of  a  nitrogenized  substance, 
like  yeast,  to  produce  fermentation  without  any  external  assistance. 

Fermentation  in  bread  is  produced  generally  by  yeast,  and  makes  the 
dough  rise,  from  the  carbonic  acid  gas  which  is  evolved  by  it.  The  sticky 
texture  of  the  "  sponge"  will  not  let  this  gas  escape,  and  it  forces  up  little 
bladders  all  over  the  dough.  Heat  increases  fermentation  and  expands 
these  gas  bubbles,  in  consequence  of  which  the  dough  becomes  more 
porous  and  lighter.  For  this  cause  the  cook  places  her  dough  before  the 
fire  to  rise  ;  if  the  dough  were  to  be  removed  and  get  cold  the  air  bubbles 
would  condense,  the  paste  would  fall,  and  the  bread  would  be  heavy. 

Putrefaction  is  a  change  effected  in  the  elements  of  a  body  composed 
of  carbon,  oxygen,  hydrogen,  and  nitrogen. 

At  the  freezing-point  of  water  all  putrefaction  ceases,  and  also  at  the 
boiling-point. 

Perfectly  diy  substances  never  putrefy. 

Putrefaction  cannot  take  place  if  there  is  no  air,  Air  contains  the 
germs  of  low  forms  of  organic  life.  Substances  can  neither  putrefy  nor 
ferment  without  these  infusoria  being  present. 

When  meat  becomes  tainted  and  putrefaction  has  commenced,  it  can 
be  stayed  and  the  taint  removed  by  washing  it  with  pyroligneous  acid,  by 
covering  it  for  a  few  hours  with  powdered  charcoal,  or  by  putting  a  few 
lumps  of  charcoal  into  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled.  Both  these  sub- 
stances combine  with  the  putrescent  particles  and  neutralize  their 
offensive  taste  and  smell. 

Meat  should  never  be  exposed  to  the  action  of  moonlight,  for  on  a 
clear  moonlight  night  it  will  radiate  heat  freely  and  grow  wet  with  dew, 
which  causes  rapid  putrefaction. 

ELECTEICITY. 

We  have  already  spoken  of  rain,  hail,  and  snow ;  it  is  time  to  discuss 
the  great  agent  of  storms — Electricity,  which  exists  latent  probably  in 
nearly  all  terrestrial  objects,  and  is  seen  in  nature  as  lightning. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  electricity — Vitreous  and  Resinous  ;  called  by 
Dr.  Franklin  the  Positive  and  Negative.  Vitreous  electricity  is  so  called 
because  it  was  first  produced  by  rubbing  glass  :  Resinous,  because  it  was 
best  procured  by  rubbing  resinous  substances. 

Electricity  accumulates  in  the  clouds  from  different  sources  :  from 
evaporation  from  the  earth's  surface  ;  from  chemical  changes  in  the  air ; 
and  from  friction  between  currents  of  air  of  unequal  temperature  crossing 


Thunder  and  Lightning.  oo» 


each  other.  Lightning  is  this  accumulated  electricity  discharged  from  the ' 
clouds,  by  one  kind  of  electricity  rushing  from  a  cloud  to  unite  itself  withn 
the  other  kind,  in  another  cloud,  or  in  the  earth.  The  flash  parts  the- 
atmosphere,  and  the  concussion  made  when  the  air  closes  again,  produces 
(in  great  part)  the  noise  which  we  call  thunder.  When  the  lightning 
cloud  is  near  the  earth  all  the  vibrations  of  the  air  (on  which  sound 
depends)  reach  the  ear  at  the  same  moment,  and  produce  one  terrific 
crash.  When  the  lightning  cloud  is  a  long  way  off,  and  some  of  the 
vibrations  of  sound  have  further  to  travel  than  others,  the  peal  reaches  the 
ear  at  intervals  and  is  broken  and  irregular.  The  vibrations  produced  in 
the  lowest  portions  of  the  air  are  heard  first.  The  flash  is  instantaneous,, 
but  sound  takes  a  second  of  time  to  travel  380  yards. 

The  lightning  clouds  are  often  very  near  the  earth.  They  are  rarely 
more  than  700  yards  from  the  surface  when  discharged,  and  the  nearer 
they  are  the  more  likely  they  are  to  discharge.  Any  high  object  whictu 
reduces  the  distance  between  them  and  the  earth,  as  steeples,  high  trees,, 
etc.,  will  discharge  them. 

Electricity  passes  through  a  conductor  in  a  quiet  and  invisible  form  : 
when  it  cuts  the  air  it  becomes  visible,  because  the  atmosphere  is  a  bad 
conductor. 


Example  of  the  zigzag  path  of  Lightning. 

Lightning  is  forked  when  the  flash  is  divided  by  terrestrial  objects 
which  attract  it ;  it  is  zigzag  when  it  condenses  the  air  in  its  immediate 
path,  and  flies  from  side  to  side  that  it  may  pass  where  there  is  least 
resistance.  When  the  distance  a  flash  lias  to  pass  is  very  short,  the  air  is 
not  condensed  by  it  and  the  flash  descends  straight. 

Lightning  destroys  life  when  it  passes  through  the  body  of  men  or 
animals,  by  its  violent  action  on  the  nerves  ;  it  therefore  possesses  a 
degree  of  peril  for  us  which  makes  some  of  its  properties,  and  the  laws 
which  direct  it,  matters  of  important  knowledge. 

Lightning  in  seeking  the  earth  will  always  choose  the  best  conductors, 

H  2 


*  o  o  Conductors  and  Non-  Conductors. 

and  will  leap  from  a  bad  conductor  to  a  good  one.  It  also  seeks  a  path  by 
the  highest  object ;  or  rather,  perhaps,  it  is  high  objects  which  discharge  the 
electrical  cloud.  It  is  well,  therefore,  to  know  which  are  the  conductors 
that  are  especially  beloved  by  the  fiery  visitor.  Water  is  an  excellent 
conductor  ;  so  are  metals  of  all  kinds.  Vapour  is  a  good  conductor  ;  the 
body  of  man  itself  is  another,  the  lightning  passing  through  the  human 
fluids.  It  is  therefore  unwise  to  stand  near  or  under  a  tree  in  a  thunder- 
storm, because  the  tall  tree  would  attract  the  lightning,  and  as  the  man 
would  be  the  better  conductor,  the  flash  would  diverge  from  the  tree  to 
him  ;  but  if  he  were  at  a  sufficient  distance  the  tree  might  save  him  from 
the  flash,  because  it  would  be  higher  and  would  draw  the  lightning  to  itself. 

It  is  dangerous  to  lean  against  a  wall,  because  the  electric  fluid  will 
sometimes  run  down  it,  and  would  leave  the  wall  for  the  better  human 
conductor. 

All  sorts  of  metals  are  good  conductors,  and  therefore  attract  lightning  ; 
they  should  not  be  worn  at  the  time  of  a  storm  nor  taken  in  the  hand. 

A  crowd  conducts  lightning,  the  vapour  arising  from  it  increasing  the 
conducting  power  of  the  air  above. 

Metals  conduct  in  the  following  order  :  copper  is  the  best  conductor  ; 
zinc  is  next  in  power  ;  iron  next ;  and  lead  least. 

Iron  houses  would  be  safest  to  inhabit,  because  the  metal  walls  would 
draw  the  lightning  from  their  inmates  to  the  ground.  Iron  bedsteads  are 
also  safest  in  lightning  storms,  as  they  are  excellent  conductors,  and  the 
lightning  would  prefer  the  iron  pathway  to  one  through  the  human  body. 
For  the  same  reason  the  knights  of  old  were  safe  in  their  steel  armour, 
which  lightning  would  prefer  to  the  knight  himself  as  a  road  to  the  earth, 
which  it  seeks. 

This  power  of  conducting  electricity  has  caused  the  placing  of  lightning 
conductors  by  churches,  powder  magazines,  and  other  public  buildings. 
But  these  conductors  must  be  of  proper  size  and  kept  in  perfect  order,  as 
if  broken,  cracked,  or  defective,  the  electric  fluid  will  fly  from  them  to  the 
building.  It  is  safer  not  to  sit  near  the  fireplace  in  a  thunder-storm,  and 
the  middle  of  the  room  is  to  be  preferred.  Mattresses  and  beds  are 
non-conductors,  and  therefore  afford  security.  Silk  is  a  non-conductor, 
and  glass  ;  therefore  glass  windows  protect  from  lightning  in  a  storm. 
Pieces  of  metal  of  all  kinds  attract  it,  and  are  dangerous.  Wet  is  a 
protection  ;  wet  clothes  will  conduct  lightning  from  the  human  body,  but 
it  is  dangerous  to  stand  near  water. 

The  electric  fluid  makes  itself  felt  in  our  dairies  and  cellars.  It 
produces  a  disturbance  in  the  condition  of  milk  which  turns  it  sour  ;  and 
if  our  beer  be  new  and  its  fermentation  not  complete,  lightning  will  so 
accelerate  the  process  that  it  will  turn  the  sugar  which  is  not  yet  alcohol 
into  acetic  acid,  and  we  shall  have  sour  beer.  Old  beer  and  strong  porter, 
the  fermentation  of  which  is  more  advanced,  will  be  less  affected,  if  at  all. 

But  lightning,  in  spite  of  its  peril  for  us,  is  a  beneficent  agent  in  crea- 
tion. It  is  one  of  the  great  sources  of  heat.  It  purifies  the  air  by  pro- 
ducing nitric  acid*  in  it,  and  by  agitating  the  air-currents. 

*  Nitric  acid  acts  very  powerfully  in  destroying  noxious  exhalations  from  putrid 
vegetable  or  animal  matter.  It  is  formed  by  th«  electric  fluid  chemically  uniting 
the  nitrogen  and  oxygen  of  the  atmosphere. 


The  Barometer. 


ior 


A  thunder-storm  generally  follows  very  dry  weather  in  summer.  The 
dry  air  being  a  non-conductor  will  not  relieve  the  clouds  of  it,  and  they 
are  at  length  discharged  in  a  storm  ;  whereas  moist  air  or  falling  rain — a 
good  conductor — carries  the  fluid  silently,  and  by  degrees,  from  the  clouds 
into  the  earth. 

THE    BAROMETER. 

Two  Greek  words — fiapos,  a  weight,  and  fierpov,  a  measure — are  en- 
listed to  give  the  title  to  this  most  valuable  instrument,  which  accurately 

demonstrates  the  variability  of  the  pressure 
of  the  air.  Mercury  is  about  thirteen  times 
heavier  than  water  ;  consequently  a  column 
of  mercury  I  in.  square  and  about  30  in.  in 
height  will  counterbalance  a  column  of 
water  34  ft.  high  and  1  in.  square  at  the 
base,  or  both  will  hold  in  equipoise  a 
column  of  air  of  its  natural  height  from 
the  earth,  or  that  aerial  mixture  which  is 
supposed  to  be  included  within  a  distance 
of  45  miles  of  the  earth's  surface — i.e., 
starting  from  the  level  of  the  sea. 

The  specific  gravity  of  air  is  taken  as 
unity  or  one,  and  it  is  the  standard  with 
which  the  density  of  all  gaseous  bodies  is 
compared.  Air  at  30  Bar.  and  320  Fahr. 
is  769/4  lighter  than  water,  and  10,462 
times  less  heavy  than  mercury. 

A  barometer,  for  rough  purposes,  is  soon 
made.  A  clean,  dry  tube  of  stout  glass, 
called  barometer-tube,  is  hermetically 
sealed  at  one  end ;  pure  mercury  is  then 
poured  in  until  the  tube  is  filled  within 
one  inch  of  the  open  end  ;  the  thumb  is 
now  held  tightly  over  the  latter,  and  the 
air  included  in  the  small  space  already 
alluded  to  is  slowly  passed  up  and  down 
the  tube,  in  order  to  collect  all' the  smaller 
bubbles  of  air  which  adhere  to  the  inside 
of  the  glass  tube.  The  tube,  filled  with 
mercury,  is  left  standing  upright,  and  is 
gently  tapped  (say  daily  for  a  week),  in 
order  to  assist  the  escape  of  any  bubbles 
of  air.  It  is  then  inverted  in  a  basin  of 
clean  mercury,  and,  supposing  the  tube  to 
be  36  in.  in  length,  the  mercury  may  fall 
to  30  in.,  and  the  space  between  30  in. 
and  36  in.  is  called  the  Torricellian 
vacuum. 
The  barometer  thus  made,  if  placed  under  the  receiver  of  an  air- 
pump,  indicates,  by  the  falling  of  the  mercury,  the  amount  of  vacuum 
procurable  by  any  pump  that  the  operator  may  wish  to  test ;  but  there 


The  Barometer  in  the  Vacuum 
of  an  Air- Pump. 


The  Barometer — how  Made. 


is  always  a  fractional  portion  left  behind,  however  excellent  the  air- 
pump  may  be.  A  pump  that  will  remove  329  volumes  out  of  330  may  be 
regarded  as  a  very  good  one. 

The  more  refined  instruments  required  for  meteorological  purposes  are 
made  in  the  same  manner,  with  the  additional  precau- 
tion of  boiling  the  quicksilver  in  the  tube,  so  as  to  get 
rid  of  the  last  bubbles  of  air.  It  is  this  which  renders 
them  more  costly,  as  many  tubes  are  sometimes  broken 
in  the  process  of  boiling.  There  are  many  good  baro- 
meter-makers in  London. 

The  annexed  figure  represents  a  refined  instrument, 
made  by  Negretti  and  Zambra,  who  give  the  following 
instructions  : — 

A  Standard  Barometer,  on  Fortin's  principle,  reading 
fiom  an  ivory  point  in  the  cistern,  to  insure  a  constant 
level — with  mercury  boiled  in  the  tube.  The  barometer- 
tube,  which  is  T45  of  an  inch  diameter,  is  enclosed  and 
protected  by  a  tube  of  brass  extending  throughout  its 
whole  length  ;  the  upper  portion  of  the  brass  tube  has 
two  longitudinal  openings  opposite  each  other ;  on  one 
side  of  the  front  opening  is  the  barometrical  scale  of 
English  inches,  divided  to  show,  by  means  of  a  vernier, 
i\q  of  an  inch ;  on  the  opposite  side  is  sometimes  divided 
a  scale  of  French  millimetres,  reading  also  by  a  vernier 
to  T\j  of  a  millimetre  ;  the  reservoir  or  cistern  of  the 
barometer  is  of  glass,  closed  at  bottom  by  means  of  a 
leather  bag,  acted  upon  by  a  thumb-screw  passing 
through  the  bottom  of  an  arrangement  of  brass-work,  by 
which  it  is  protected.  A  delicate  thermometer  is  attached 
to  the  brass  tube. 

Directions  for  fixing  the  Barometer. — Having  deter- 
mined upon  the  position  in  which  to  place  the  instru- 
ment, fix  the  mahogany  board  as  nearly  vertical  as 
possible  ;  and  ascertain  if  the  barometer  is  perfect,  and 
free  from  air,  in  the  following  manner  : — Lower  the  screw 
at  the  bottom  of  cistern  three  or  four  turns,  that  the 
mercury  in  the  tube,  when  held  upright,  may  fall  two  or 
three  inches  from  the  top  ;  then  slightly  incline  the  in- 
strument from  the  vertical  position,  and  if  the  mercury 
in  striking  the  top  elicit  a  sharp  tap  the  instrument  is 
quite  perfect.  If  the  tap  be  dull,  or  not  heard  at  all, 
there  is  air  above  the  mercury,  which  must  be  driven  into 
the  cistern  by  inverting  the  instrument,  and  gently 
tapping  it  with  the  hand.  Supposing  the  barometer  to 
be  in  perfect  condition,  it  is  next  suspended  on  the  brass 
bracket,  its  cistern  passing  through  the  ring  at  bottom  of 
the  mahogany  board,  and  allowed  to  find  its  vertical 
position,  after  which  it  is  firmly  clasped  by  means  of  the 
jhree  thumb-screws. 

Before  making  an  observation,  the  mercury  in  the  cistern  must  be 
raised  or  lowered,  by  means  of  the  thumb-screw,  until  the  ivory  point  and 


A  Standard 
Barometer. 


The  Barometer  as  a  Weather  Glass. 


IO' 


!*•£ 


PRIZE    MCDAL 


0^ 


BAROMETER 


29 


27 


TWERMdMSHK 


39 


^2 


Davis's  Prize  Medal  Baro- 
meter and  Weather  Guide. 


its  reflected  image  are  just  in  contact ;  the  ver- 
nier is  then  moved  by  means  of  the  milled  head, 
until  its  lower  termination  just  excludes  the 
light  from  the  top  of  the  mercurial  column ;  the 
reading  is  then  taken  by  means  of  the  scale 
on  the  limb  and  the  vernier. 

A  very  excellent  and  moderate-priced  instru- 
ment is  that  made  by  Davis  and  Co.,  163, 
Fenchurch  Street.    {See  cut.) 

Changes  in  the  weather  are  indicated  by  the 
barometer,  or  weather-glass,  which  was  invented 
by  Torricelli,  a  pupil  of  Galileo,  in  1643. 

The  principle  by  which  it  is  made  to  indicate 
changes  of  weather  is  by  measuring  the  weight 
of  air.  When  the  atmosphere  is  filled  with 
vapour*  the  air  is  lighter  than  usual,  and  the 
column  of  mercury  in  the  barometer  stands  low. 
When  the  air  is  dry  and  free  from  vapour  it  is 
heavy  and  the  mercury  stands  high. 

To  sailors  the  barometer  is  of  the  highest 
value ;  it  forewarns  them  of  wind,  rain,  and 
storms,  and  thus  enables  them  to  prepare  their 
vessel  to  meet  it.  An  unusual  and  sudden  fall 
in  the  barometer  has  been  found  frequently  to 
precede  a  hurricane. 

The  barometer  is  highest  of  all  during  a 
protracted  frost,  and  rises  with  a  north-east 
wind,  and  when  the  air  is  very  dry.  The  baro- 
meter falls  very  low  in  a  thaw;  it  falls  also 
when  the  wind  comes  from  the  moist  quar- 
ters of  the  south  and  west.  When  the  baro- 
meter stands  above  300,  no  rain  may  be 
expected,  the  air  is  too  dry  for  it.  When  the 
barometer  stands  very  low  indeed,  short  heavy 
showers  and  sudden  squalls  from  the  west  may 
be  expected. 

As  we  have  said,  the  sudden  falling  of  the 
barometer  denotes  gales  of  wind,  or,  if  the 
weather  be  very  hot,  thunder.  In  frosty 
weather  the  fall  of  the  barometer  foretells  an 
approaching  thaw.  The  barometer  sinks  lowest 
of  all  for  wind  and  rain  together.  In  winter 
the  rise  of  the  barometer  foretells  frost. 

During  frosty  weather  the  rise  presages 
snow.  If  in  wet  weather  the  barometer  rises 
suddenly,  the  fine  weather  will  not  last.  If 
the  mercury  fluctuates,  expect  changeable  wea- 
ther. In  short,  its  upward  motion  signifies  fine 
weather  ;  its  downward,  wet  or  windy  weather. 
The  barometer  is  highest  in  May,  August, 
June,  March,  September,  and  April. 


io4  Natural  Signs  of  the  Weather. 


The  mercury  is  rising  when  the  top  of  the  column  is  convex,  that  is, 
higher  in  the  middle  than  at  the  sides  ;  it  is  falling  when  the  top  of  the 
column  is  concave,  that  is,  when  it  is  hollow  in  the  middle  and  higher  at 
the  sides. 

The  convex  form  is  caused  by  the  whole  column  not  being  able  to  rise 
together  on  account  of  the  capillary  attraction  of  the  glass  tube,  which 
delays  the  part  of  the  mercury  which  touches  it,  while  the  middle  part  is 
rising.  The  same  cause — the  capillary  attraction  of  the  sides  of  the  glass 
tube — delays  the  fall  of  the  sides  of  the  column,  and  the  centre  sinks  faster 
than  the  outside,  and  gives  the  column  a  concave  shape  at  the  top. 

There  are  many  natural  prognostics  of  coming  fine  or  foul  weather. 
A  red  sunset  with  a  tint  of  purple  in  it  is  a  harbinger  of  a  fair  morrow.  For 
when  the  air  is  dry  it  refracts  the  red  or  heat-making  rays,  and  as  dry 
air  is  not  perfectly  transparent  they  are  again  reflected  in  the  horizon. 

A  red  sunrise,  on  the  contrary,  forebodes  wet. 

A  yellow  or  coppery  sunset  foretells  rain.  The  yellow  colour  shows 
that  the  vapours  of  the  air  are  already  condensed  into  clouds.  The  rays  of 
light  meet  with  more  resistance  from  condensed  vapour,  consequently  those 
which  are  more  refracted  than  the  red — i.e.,  the  yellow — are  bent  down  to 
the  eye.  Moist  air  is  more  transparent  than  dry,  and  allows  yellow  rays, 
which  have  less  momentum  than  red,  to  pass  through  it. 

A  grey  sunrise  is  the  harbinger  of  a  fine  day,  for  the  air  must  be  com- 
paratively clear  and  free  from  moisture  to  let  all  the  three  coloured  rays 
pass  together,  with  a  slight  degree  of  intensity,  so  as  to  produce  white 
light — for  grey  is  only  a  modification  of  white.  The  old  proverb  truly 
says  : 

11  Evening  red  and  morning  grey 
Will  set  the  traveller  on  his  way  ; 
But  evening  grey  and  morning  red 
Will  bring  down  rain  upon  his  head." 

A  morning  rainbow  also  presages  wet,  because  it  must  necessarily  be 
in  the  west,  for  it  is  always  opposite  the  sun,  which  rises  in  the  east ;  now 
rain  clouds  in  the  west  almost  always  in  this  country  bring  bad  weather. 
The  old  proverb  is  well  known  : 

"  A  rainbow  in  the  morning  is  the  shepherd's  warning  ; 
A  rainbow  at  night  is  the  shepherd's  delight." 

The  rainbow  at  night  is  in  the  east  because  the  sun  is  in  the  west,  and 
as  it  shows  that  the  rain  clouds  (if  they  have  been  driven  from  the  west) 
are  leaving  us,  it  harbingers  fine  weather.  If  the  wind  be  easterly,  how- 
ever, neither  can  be  relied  on. 

A  haze  round  the  sun  and  a  halo  round  the  moon  both  foretell  rain,  for 
they  are  each  caused  by  very  fine  rain  suspended  in  the  upper  regions 
of  the  air,  which  will  be  sure  to  fall  at  last.  The  larger  the  halo,  the 
sooner  rain  may  be  expected,  because  the  clouds  are  nearer.  Flowers  also 
give  out  peculiarly  strong  and  sweet  odours  before  rain,  chiefly  because  the 
vapour  in  the  air  prevents  their  perfume  from  ascending. 

Swallows  fly  low  before  rain,  because  the  insects  on  which  they  feed 
have  descended  from  the  cold  regions  of  the  air  to  the  warmer  air  near 
the  earth. 


Wind,  as  influencing  Weather. 


Seagulls  come  to  land  before  stormy  weather,  because  the  fish  on  which 
they  feed  leave  the  surface  of  the  sea,  and  they  are  driven  for  food  to  the 
worms  and  larvae  which  in  such  weather  come  out  of  the  ground. 

The  Stormy  Petrels*  on  the  contrary  go  out  to  sea  and  ran  along  the 
top  of  the  waves,  because  their  food  (which  consists  of  insects)  is  at  such 
times  to  be  found  on  the  surface  of  the  water ;  and  their  presence  invaria- 
bly predicts  a  storm. 

"  The  different  tribes  of  wading  birds  always  migrate,"  says  Sir 
Humphry  Davy,  "  when  rain  is  about  to  take  place  ;  and  I  remember 
once  in  Italy,  having  been  long  waiting  in  the  end  of  March  for  the 
arrival  of  the  double  snipe  in  the  Campagna  of  Rome,  a  great  flight 
appeared  on  the  3rd  of  April,  and  the  day  after  heavy  rain  set  in  which 
greatly  interfered  with  my  sport."  Sir  Humphry  goes  on  by  observing 
that  many  popular  superstitions  are  owing  to  the  same  causes.  "  For 
anglers  in  spring,"  he  says,  "  it  is  always  unlucky  to  see  single  magpies, 
but  two  may  be  always  regarded  as  a  favourable  omen  ;  and  the  reason 
is  that  in  cold  and  stormy  weather  one  magpie  alone  leaves  the  nest 
in  search  of  food,  the  other  remaining  sitting  upon  the  eggs  or  the  young 
ones  ;  but  when  two  go  out  together  it  is  only  when  the  weather  is  warm 
and  mild  and  favourable  for  fishing." 

Certain  winds  also  influence  the  weather. 

Wind  is  air  set  in  motion  by  heat  or  cold.  The  air  always  seeks  to 
preserve  an  equilibrium  ;  therefore  when  hot  air  ascends,  as  it  always  does, 
cold  air  rushes  into  its  place.  Our  highest  winds  are  generally  in  Decem- 
ber and  January  ;  March  and  November  come  next.  The  wind  is  stillest 
in  August  and  September.  High  winds  are  caused  in  the  cold  months 
by  the  contrast  between  our  temperature  and  that  of  the  torrid  zone  ;  for 
the  greater  the  contrast  of  cold  and  heat,  the  more  violently  will  the  air 
rush  in  to  restore  the  equilibrium. 

In  summer  when  our  climate  is  nearer  in  heat  to  that  of  the  tropics, 
the  air  rushes  to  us  with  less  force  and  velocity. 

This  tendency  of  the  air  to  preserve  an  equilibrium  is  one  of  the  wisest 
laws  of  creation,  for  by  it  the  northern  regions  are  warmed  by  the  hot  air 
from  the  torrid  zone,  and  the  torrid  zone  air  is  cooled  by  the  cold  air  from 
the  poles.  In  addition  to  this,  the  air  from  the  tropics,  where  great  portions 
of  land  are  covered  with  vast  forests,  is  full  of  oxygen,  while  in  the  tem- 
perate and  polar  regions,  fires  and  congregated  human  beings  fill  the  air 
with  carbonic  acid.  The  mingling  of  the  hot  and  cold  atmospheres  is 
consequently  beneficial  to  both.  The  polar  air  currents  carry  carbonic 
acid  to  the  plants  of  the  torrid  zone,  while  the  equatorial  currents  carry 
oxygen  to  the  animals  of  the  other  zones. 

The  west  winds  coming  across  the  Atlantic  are  laden  with  vapour, 
and  on  meeting  with  the  least  chill  fall  in  rain.  East  winds  cross  the 
cold  plains  of  the  north  of  Europe,  and  as  they  pass  chiefly  over  land 
do  not  absorb  much  water  ;  they  are  consequently  very  dry  and  absorb 
moisture  from  our  air  and  clouds. 

The  north  wind  is  generally  cold,  keen,  and  dry,  because  it  comes  from 


*  Petrelli,  or  little  Peters,  so  called  from  the  manner  in  which  they  walk  or  rutt 
on  the  top  of  the  waves. 


io(S  Sea-breezes. — Dm. 

the  Arctic  Regions,  over  mountains  of  snow  and  plains  of  ice,  and  being 
warmed  by  the  heat  of  our  island  instantly  absorbs  all  the  moisture  it 
can  find.  The  north-east  wind  from  the  same  causes  is  also  a  dry  one. 
South  winds  are  warm  because  they  come  to  us  over  the  scorching  sands 
of  Africa,  and  consequently  imbibe  water  in  large  quantities  as  they 
cross  the  Mediterranean  and  English  Channel ;  as  soon  as  they  react 
our  colder  climate  they  are  condensed — can  no  longer  hold  their  vapour 
in  solution — and  it  falls  as  rain. 

Sea  breezes  are  very  salubrious,  both  on  account  of  the  constituent 
elements  of  the  sea  air,  and  because  they  are  not  laden  with  noxious 
vapours  ;  this  is  especially  the  case  in  the  morning,  when  the  cool  air  from 
the  sea,  which  has  never  been  heated  as  the  land  breeze  has,  creeps  inland 
to  restore  the  equilibrium  of  the  air  by  pressing  the  light  hot  air  up- 
wards. 

Land  breezes  are  coolest  of  an  evening  because  the  surface  of  the  land 
cools  down  after  sunset  more  quickly  than  the  surface  of  the  sea,  therefore 
the  air  from  the  land  feels  cooler  than  that  from  the  sea.  Islands  are 
warmer  in  winter  than  continents,  because  the  warmth  of  the  sea  air  miti- 
gates the  cold  of  the  land  air. 

Dew  is  condensed  vapour  from  the  air.  It  is  condensed  by  coming 
in  contact  with  bodies  colder  than  itself.  In  summer  there  is  much  dew 
because  the  hot  earth  radiates  or  throws  off  heat  freely  and  the  air  does 
not ;  consequently  after  sunset  the  earth  is  often  many  degrees  colder  than 
the  air,  and  the  warm  vapour  of  the  air  which  touches  it  is  chilled  and  con- 
densed into  dew.  Clouds  arrest  the  radiation  of  heat  from  the  earth,  conse- 
quently on  dull  cloudy  evenings  and  nights  there  is  no  dew.  In  conse- 
quence of  the  clouds  preventing  the  radiation  of  heat  from  the  earth,  the 
surface  of  the  ground  retains  its  warmth  and  a  cloudy  night  becomes  closer 
and  hotter  than  a  fine  clear  one.  Any  covering  prevents  the  radiation  of 
heat  from  the  earth,  therefore  if  an  awning  be  spread  out  of  doors  there 
will  be  little  or  no  dew  under  it,  even  if  it  should  be  open  at  the  sides.  It 
is  a  knowledge  of  this  principle  which  enables  us  to  protect  trees  from  the 
frost.  Any  covering  prevents  the  radiation  of  heat  from  the  tree  ;  and  if 
trees  are  not  cooled  down  by  radiation  the  air-vapour  will  not  be  frozen 
when  it  comes  in  contact  with  them.  A  thin  covering  of  muslin  is  there- 
fore sufficient  to  prevent  them  from  being  struck  by  the  frost.  But  the 
bass  or  canvas  usually  employed  to  cover  fruit  trees  is  always  drenched 
with  dew  itself,  because  it  radiates  heat  both  upwards  and  downwards, 
and  in  consequence  is  so  cooled  that  it  readily  condenses  the  air-vapour 
into  dew. 

Leaves  of  plants  and  grass  radiate  heat  very  freely,  and  by  doing  so 
condense  the  vapour  of  the  air  into  dew  very  easily  ;  thus  they  supply  their 
great  need  of  moisture  in  dry  weather. 

Polished  metal  and  smooth  stones  do  not  radiate  heat  well,  and  conse- 
quently scarcely  get  any  dew  by  condensing  the  air-vapour.  Thus  only 
the  things  which  require  dew,  make  it. 

Radiation  is  carried  on  very  rapidly  on  bright  moonlight  nights  ;  dew 
is  consequently  largely  deposited  on  young  plants  and  trees,  and  thus  their 
growth  is  promoted. 

Evening  dew  is  always  laden  with  exhalations  from  the  earth  which 
are  injurious  to  health  ;  it  should  therefore  be  avoided. 


Weather-toys. — Magnetism 


107 


There  are  certain  small  weather-toys  which  admirably  supply  the  place 
of  the  barometer  where  the  expense  of  the  latter  prevents  purchasing  it. 
The  capuchin  is  one  ;  in  this  the  monk's  cowl  is  on  when  rain  is  coming, 
but  is  taken  off  when  it  is  fine.  This  is  caused  by  the  catgut  which  is  at- 
tached to  it ;  being  shortened  by  moisture  it  pulls  the  cowl  up.  In  dry 
weather  the  string  expands  and  the  cowl  falls  by  its  own  weight.  In  the 
other  toys,  where  a  man  and  a  lady,  or  a  knight  and  a  jester,  etc.,  come 
out  alternately,  the  same  principle  acts  ;  the  moist  catgut  sending  out  the 
man,  or  knight,  as  it  may  be. 


MAGNETISM. 

The  magnetic  or  black  oxide  of  iron,  sometimes  called  the  lead- 
stone  or  loadstone,  is  estimated  as  one  of  the  most  valuable  ores  of  iron, 
because  it  enjoys  the  property,  when  freely  suspended,  of  pointing  to 
the  north  ;  and  it  does  this  by  virtue  of  an  inherent  property  which 
belongs  to  it,  called  magnetism. 


The  Shepherd  discovering  the  Magnetic  Stone  on  Mount  Ida 
with  the  Iron  01  his  Crook. 

The  loadstone  occurs  native,  and  crystallizes  in  cubes,  and  is  said  to 
have  been  discovered  by  a  shepherd  on  Mount  Ida,  who  first  noticed  that 
the  iron  of  his  crook  was  attracted  by  it. 

The  magnet  was  not  only  called  magnes,  but  "  lapis  Heracleus,"  from 
Heraclea,  a  city  of  Magnesia,  a  part  of  ancient  Lydia,  in  Greece.     It  is 


10S  Home  Use  of  Magnet. 


also  called  lapis  nauticns,  because  of  its  use  in  navigation  ;  and  siderites, 
because  the  mineral  attracts  iron,  which  the  Greeks  called  aidrjpos. 

"  The  earliest  mention  in  English  records  of  the  primitive  mariners 
compass  is  that  by  Alexander  Neckham,  who  describes  the  same  in  his 
'  Treatise  on  Things  pertaining  to  Ships.'  Neckham  was  born  at  St. 
Alban's  in  1157.  A  translation  of  his  works  from  the  Latin,  was  published 
in  1866.  In  the  reign  of  Edward  III.,  the  magnet  was  known  by  the 
name  of  the  sail-stone  or  adamant,  and  the  compass  was  called  the  sail- 
ing-needle or  dial ;  it  is  long  after  this  period  before  we  find  the  word 
compass.  A  ship  called  the  Plenty  sailed  from  Hull  in  1388,  and  we  find 
that  she  was  steered  by  the  sailing-stone.  In  1345,  another  entry  occurs  of 
one  of  the  king's  ships,  called  the  George,  bringing  over  sixteen  horologes 
from  Sluys,  and  that  money  had  been  paid  at  the  same  place  for  twelve 
stones,  called  adamants  or  sail-stones,  for  repairing  divers  instruments 
pertaining  to  a  ship." 

Fine  large  pieces  of  loadstone  are  usually  mounted  in  handsome  brass 
or  silver  boxes,  and  were  highly  prized  in  the  reign  of  King  Charles  II., 
when  the  Royal  Society  of  England  began  to  exert  itself  in  the  acquisi- 
tion of  scientific  knowledge. 

When  examined  with  a  magnetic  needle,  the  mineral  is  found  to  have 
two  points  where  the  magnetic  virtue  exists  in  the  greatest  intensity  :  these 
are  called  poles,  and  are  connected  with  the  pieces  of  soft  iron  which  pro- 
trude from  the  case  containing  the  loadstone  ;  they  take  off  the  friction 
and  wear  and  tear  of  the  mineral,  whilst  all  cutting  of  the  stone,  in  order 
to  obtain  a  hollow  space  between  the  two  poles,  as  in  an  ordinary  horse- 
shoe magnet,  is  avoided.  The  magnetism  from  the  loadstone  is  easily 
conferred  upon  and  retained  by  hardened  steel. 

It  is  only  necessary  to  rub  the  steel  or  drag  the  loadstone  round  in  one 
direction,  taking  care  to  put  the  pole  N  of  the  latter  on  the  end  of  the 
steel  bar  marked  S.  An  assemblage  of  steel  plates  in  the  form  of  an 
elongated  horseshoe,  when  carefully  magnetized  and  fixed  together,  con- 
stitutes a  kind  of  magnetic  battery  having  greatly  increased  powers. 

Every  housemother  should  possess  a  small  magnet.  In  case  of  a 
morsel  of  needle  or  any  steel  dust  getting  into  the  eye,  a  magnet  held  to 
it  will  draw  the  offending  substance  out.  A  niece  of  the  writer  broke  a 
large  carpet  needle  into  her  foot.  A  surgeon  was  called  in  ;  he  endea- 
voured to  extract  it,  cut  the  foot  deeply,  but  could  not  succeed  in  reaching 
the  needle.  Some  days  afterwards,  at  the  suggestion  of  a  friend's  nurse, 
she  tried  holding  a  strong  horse-shoe  magnet  to  it,  drawing  it  backwards 
and  forwards  over  the  place  till  the  needle,  obeying  the  attraction, 
appeared  on  the  surface.  She  then  squeezed  it  upwards,  and  passing 
another  needle  through  the  eye,  drew  it  out. 


ico 


THE    HOUSE-MOTHER. 

The  house  taken  and  furnished,  the  duties  of  the  housewife  or— we 
prefer  giving  her  the  expressive  name  employed  by  our  German  cousins, 
— the  House-mother — begin,  and  first,  perhaps,  in  her  list  of  many  duties 
comes  feeding  the  family.  In  order  to  do  this  judiciously  and  economi- 
cally, she  should  know  everything  about  the  articles  on  which  we  feed, 
— their  powers  of  sustaining  life  and  health — the  mode  of  using  and 
preserving  them,  and  their  price.  We  give,  therefore,  a  brief  summary  of 
the  chief  food  used  in  English  families,  and  some  hints  respecting  the  pro- 
visions for  the  larder  found  in  the  colonies.  This  book  does  not  however 
pretend  to  be  a  cookery  book  ;  for  instructions  in  that  art  the  reader  is  re- 
ferred to  Warne's  "  Model  Cookery  Books,"  which  range  from  the  first-class 
volume,  price  Js.  6d.,  to  the  poor  house-mother's  guide  at  a  penny. 

The  house-mother  has  duties  separate  from  those  of  the  cook.  One  of 
these  is  a  knowledge  of  the  nature  and  character  of  the  food  which  the 
latter  prepares.  We  offer  her  in  the  following  pages  some  guidance  in 
this  direction  ;  and  also  we  insert  some  few  receipts  which  from  their  ex- 
cellence, and  their  being  chiefly  original  and  not  to  be  met  with  elsewhere, 
we  think  may  be  usefuL  They  will  be  found  at  the  end  of  the  description 
of  the  article  of  food  to  which  they  refer. 

POOD. 

The  use  of  food  is  to  repair  the  waste  daily  and  hourly  going  on  in  our 
bodies,  and  to  enable  us  to  execute  the  work  for  which  the  body  was  de- 
signed ;  also,  as  we  have  shown  in  the  first  pages  of  Domestic  Science,  to 
keep  the  lamp  of  life  burning  by  supporting  the  animal  heat. 

To  keep  a  man  living  and  able  to  work  he  will  require  daily  five  ounces 
of  nitrogenous  or  flesh-forming  food,  and  ten  ounces  of  calorific  matter 
or  carbon,  for  heat-giving  or  breathing.  Women  and  schoolboys  require 
two  and  a  half  ounces  of  flesh-formers,  and  about  three-fourths  of  the 
man's  amount  of  carbon,  or  heat-givers.* 

"  This  large  quantity  of  starch  or  fat  is  required  by  a  full-grown  man 
daily,  in  order  that  he  may  continue  to  breathe,  and  yet  retain  the  weight 
of  his  body  undiminished. 

"  That  all  bodily  movement  is  attended  by  waste  of  the  bodily  sub- 
stance is  a  received  opinion.  But  whether  such  movement  is  or  is  not  its 
true  cause,  the  waste  itself  is  certain.  An  animal  when  fasting  will  lose 
from  a  fourteenth  to  a  twelfth  of  its  whole  weight  in  twenty-four  hours. 
This  loss  does  not  fall  altogether  upon  the  fat" — which  supplies  the  animal 
heat — "  but  extends  also  in  part  to  the  tissues  and  general  substance  of 
the  body.  It  is  so  great  that  the  whole  blood  is  unable  altogether  to  re- 
place it.  Scarcely,  therefore,  is  the  stomach  of  an  animal  empty,  when  it 
begins  already  to  feed  upon  itself." 

The  food  required  by  the  body  consists  of  gluten,  fibrin,  albumen, 
starch,  fat,  sugar,  and  saline  matters. 

*  On  the  authority  of  the  South  Kensington  Museum. 


no  Food. 

Gluten  will  be  readily  detected  in  the  dough  of  bread  if  it  be  placed  on 
a  sieve  and  turned  about  by  the  hand  under  a  stream  of  water  poured 
from  a  jug  on  it.  The  water  at  first  passes  through  milky  in  appearance  ; 
at  last  there  will  remain  at  the  bottom  of  the  sieve  a  white  sticky  sub- 
stance resembling  bird-lime.  This  matter  from  its  glutinous  nature  has 
been  called  "  gluten." 

If  the  milky  water  be  allowed  to  stand,  a  white  powder  will  sink  as  a 
sediment  in  it,  which  is  wheaten  starch. 

Gluten  contains  nitrogen,  the  kind  of  air  or  gas  which  forms  the  greater 
part  of  the  atmosphere.  The  fibrin  of  meat,  and  the  albumen  or  white  of 
an  egg,  also  contain  nitrogen  nearly  in  the  same  proportion  as  gluten.  In 
these  three  similar  substances,  therefore,  the  nutritive  or  flesh-forming 
parts  of  our  food  are  chiefly  found.  We  must  observe  here,  that  albumen 
in  pla,7its  is  not  the  same  as  the  albumen  which  is  the  white  of  an  egg.  It 
is  the  white  inner  part  of  the  seed  on  which  the  plants  feed,  as  the 
chicken  does  on  the  albumen  in  the  egg.  Albumen,  though  different  in 
appearance  and  sensible  properties  from  gluten  and  fibrin  has,  as  we  have 
just  said,  a  close  chemical  relation  to  both  and  serves  nearly  the  same 
Durpose  in  feeding  animals.  Gluten,  fibrin,  and  albumen  are  all  alike 
nutritive  and  flesh-forming. 

Next  in  order  come  the  heat-givers,  or  those  substances  which  by 
keeping  up  the  internal  combustion  always  going  on  within,  enable  us  to 
breathe  and  live — they  are  the  fats  and  oils,  sugars  and  starch.  Human 
fat  feeds  the  animal  heat  in  combination  with  the  oxygen  of  the  air.  It 
(human  fat)  consists  of  carbon,  hydrogen,  and  oxygen,  and  is  transformed 
into  carbonic  acid  and  water  by  the  oxygen  in  the  air  we  breathe.  This 
oxygen  taken  into  the  blood  circulates  through  our  bodies,  unites  with  the 
carbon  and  hydrogen  of  the  fat,  and  changes  it  into  carbonic  acid  and 
water,  to  be  breathed  off  again  through  the  lungs. 

Now  starch  and  sugar  will  take  the  place  of  the  animal  fat,  and 
thus  prevent  its  diminution.  They  will  be  breathed  away  instead  of  the 
fat  of  the  animal  itself.  Ardefit  spirits,  which  consist  of  four  parts  of  car- 
bon, six  of  hydrogen,  and  two  of  oxygen,  have  the  same  power  of  sup- 
plying carbonic  acid  gas  for  breathing.  Starch  consists  of  half  its 
weight  in  carbon,  and  hydrogen  and  oxygen  in  the  proportions  which 
form  water — i.e.,  eight  parts  of  oxygen  to  one  part  of  hydrogen.  It  pro- 
duces when  oxidized  (that  is,  united  with  oxygen)  in  the  system  of  man, 
muscular  force  and  animal  heat,  but  it  is  not  either  a  flesh  or  muscle  former. 

Arrowroot,  which  is  a  starch,  cannot  therefore  form  alone  the  food  of 
man,  who  on  such  a  diet  would  die  of  slow  starvation. 

No  vegetable  production  will  preserve  life  unless  starch  and  glute?i  be 
united  in  it. 

Wheaten  bread  will  support  life,  but  it  lacks  fat,  required  for  repairing 
the  waste  of  animal  fat,  and  to  help  digestion  ;  and  we  consequently 
eat  butter  with  it.  We  make  tart  and  pie  crusts  with  butter,  lard,  or 
dripping,  for  the  same  reason,  wheaten  flour  being  deficient  in  fat ;  in  fact 
to  most  vegetables  we  require  to  add  fat. 

Woody  fibre  will  be  always  found  amongst  the  constituents  of  vege- 
table food  ;  it  passes  through  the  animal  undigested. 

The  following  table  of  flesh-formers,  each  sufficing  for  the  daily  food 
of  a  man,  is  given  from  the  Food   Gallery  of  the  South   Kensington 


Equivalents  of  Food. 


in 


Museum. 

The 

various  vegetable  substances  contain  the  same  supply  of 

nitrogen  in  the  i 

varying  quantities, 

2  lbs. 

IOZ 

.     of  Flour. 

2olbs. 

1302. 

Potatoes* 

2 

6 

of  Barley-meal. 

3i 

4 

Carrots. 

I 

13 

Oatmeal.* 

15 

10 

Parsnips. 

2 

9 

Maize. 

17 

13 

Turnips. 

2 

3 

of  Rye. 

IO 

6 

of  Cabbage, 

4 

1,1 

Rice. 

3 

13 

Bread. 

3 

lo 

Buckwheat. 

i 

11 

Tea — dry, 

i 

3 

of  Lentils. 

■y 

1 

Coffee — dry. 

i 

5 

of  dry  Peas. 

I 

8 

Cocoa-nibs, 

i 

5 

dry  Beans. 

"All  parts  of  the  body,"  says  Professor  Johnston,  "are  endowed  with 
the  power  of  selecting  from  the  universally  nourishing  blood  the  chemical 
compounds  which  are  specially  required  for  the  formation  of  their  own 
substance,  or  the  discharge  of  their  special  functions.  Thus  the  bones 
specially  select  and  appropriate  phosphate  of  lime,  while  the  muscles  take 
phosphate  of  magnesia  and  phosphate  of  potash.  The  cartilages  build  in 
soda  in  preference  to  potash.  The  bones  and  teeth  specially  extract 
fluorine.     Silica  is  almost  monopolized  by  the  hair,  skin,  and  nails   of 

man Iron  abounds  chiefly  in  the  colouring  matter  of  the  blood,  in 

the  black  pigment  of  the  eye,  and  in  the  hair.  Sulphur  exists  largely  in 
the  hair,  and  phosphorus  in  the  brain.  Thus  to  each  part  of  the  body 
certain  chemical  substances  seem  to  be  most  specially  appropriated,  and 
to  each  part  a  peculiar  and  special  power  has  been  given  of  selecting  out 
of  the  common  storehouse  those  materials  which  suit  it  best  to  work  withal.*'* 

These  materials  are  supplied  in  our  food,  and  care  should  be  taken  by 
the  housewife  that  bad  cooking  and  injudicious  arrangements  may  not 
cause  the  needful  substances  to  be  wanting  from  the  food  supplied. 

We  shall  now  endeavour  to  guide  her  judgment  in  the  choice  and 
preservation  of  food,  commencing  with  a  little  information  respecting  the 
staff  of  life — our  daily  bread. 

Bread,  and  the  Grains  used  for  making  it. 
The  various  kinds  of  flour  used  for  ordinary  English  bread  are- 
Wheat  Flour,  Oatmeal,  Barley-meal,  Indian-meal. 

Wheat-flour  is  sold  by  millers,  and  all  of  these  grains  are  sold  at  corn* 
chandlers. 

Wheat. 
Constituent  Mrts — lib.  contains— 


Oz.  Grs. 

Water 2  106 

Gluten 2  21 

Albumen  .     .     .     .     o  126 

Starch       ....     9  242 

Sugar o  385 


Gum     .     . 
Fat  .     .     . 
Woody  fibre 
Ashes   .     . 
Carbon     . 


*  It  will  be  here  seen  how  nutritious  oatmeal  is. 


Oz. 
o 
o 
o 
o 
7 


Grs. 

119 

84 

119 

112 

o 


Wheat. 


21  ounces  of  wheat  are  required  to  yield  lib.  of  flour. 
More  than  ioo  varieties  of  wheat  are  cultivated  in  Great  Britain  and 
elsewhere. 


''  / 


Lammas. 


Essex. 


Spalding. 


Chiddam. 


Wheat 


H3 


There  are  many  kinds  of  foreign  wheat. 

Flour  of  every  kind  consists  of  two  classes  of  substances — one  nitro- 

gcnized,  the  other  non-nitroge- 
nized.  It  also  contains  mineral 
substances. 

The  gluten  is  the  substance  of 
most  importance  in  flour,  as  it  con- 
tains, in  its  crude  state,  most  of  the 
other  nitrogenized  substances — viz., 
fibrine,  mucine  or  caseine,  and  oil. 
The  greater  part  of  the  oil  is  con- 


Section  of  a  Mill  turning  two  sets  ot  Mill-stones. 


IT. 


Wheat —  Grinding. 


tained  in  the  bran,  or  husk,  as  are  also  the  phosphates.  The  nitrogenized 
substances — pure  gluten,  vegetable  fibrin,  caseine,  and  oil,  serve  to  form 
in  the  human  body  flesh  or  muscle  through  the  agency  of  the  blood  into 
which  they  first  enter  ;  the  starch,  sugar,  and  gum  are  used  for  forming 
fat  and  carrying  on  respiration. 

It  will  be  seen,  by  comparison  with  the  following  tables,  that  the 
nitrogenized,  or  flesh-forming  substances,  are  in  larger  proportion  in  wheat 
than  in  any  other  grain,  consequently  wheaten  bread  is  the  most  econo- 
mical in  the  end. 

Before  grinding,  several  sorts  of  wheat  are  mixed  together,  as  the 
mixture  makes  better  bread  than  any  single  kind  alone.  The  process  of 
mixing  is  called  "  mealing." 

After  the  wheat  is  mixed,  it  is  carefully  winnowed  from  the  dust,  and 

then  descends  through  a  hopper  (a)  to  the  space  be- 
tween two  mill-stones  (b).    These  are  about  four  or 

live  feet  in  diameter,  and  are  made  of  a  very  hard 

French  stone — called  French  burr-stone. 

The  burr-stones  are  not  often  brought  to  this 

country  much  larger  than  a  man's  hat — a  number 

of  them  are,  therefore,  carefully  cemented  together 

with  a  very  strong  cement,  and  bound  with  iron 

hoops  to  form  one  mill-stone.     The  method  that  is 

employed  in  France   to  split  the  burr-stones  to 

the  requisite  thickness,  is  rather  singular.     Cir- 
cular indentations  are  made  round  the  blocks, 


Mill-stone. 


JTllj     Upper  mill-stone. 


Lower  mill-stone. 


^ 


Wheat.  — Sifting. 


"5 


at  proper  distances,  and  then  wedges  of  willow  that  have  been  dried  in 
an  oven  are  driven  into  the  indentations  with  a  mallet.  When  these 
wedges  have  been  sunk  to  a  proper  depth  they  are  moistened  with  water; 
and,  after  a  few  hours,  the  several  stones  that  have  been  marked  out  are 
found  to  be  perfectly  separated.  The  surfaces  of  the  stones  are  rough  or 
grooved,  and  the  lower  one  being  fixed,  the  upper  one  revolves  rapidly — 
more  than  a  hundred  times  in  a  minute. 

It  is  necessary  to  keep  the  stones  a  little  distance  apart,  for  if  they 
touched  they  would  grow  very  hot.  This  is  effected  by  a  strong  spindle 
being  put  through  a  small  hole  in  the  lower  stone,  which  turns  the  upper 
mill-stone.  By  raising  or  lowering  the  spindle  the  upper  stone  is  raised 
Or  lowered.  The  centrifugal  force  drives  the  flour  from  the  centre  to  the 
circumference,  where  it  falls  into  a  box.  The  upper  stone  is  slightly 
concave,  therefore  the  broken  grain  can  gradually  find  its  way  outwards, 
being  ground  in  its  passage.  A  blast  of  cold  air  is  directed  on  the  stone 
to  keep  it  cool. 

The  flour  descends  through  a  spout  into  a  bin  below,  after  which  it  is 
"  dressed" — i.e.,  sifted  through  a  sieve,  which  varies  in  fineness. 


Finest  flour.       Fine.       Coarse.      Bran. 

A  spindle  through  the  middle  of  the  sieve,  has  brushes  fastened  to  it. 
When  the  flour  is  in,  the  brushes  revolve  swiftly,  and  rub  the  flour  through 
the  sieve — the  bran  falling  out  at  the  end.  By  an  exhausting  or  pumping 
apparatus,  the  loose  flour  dispersed  in  the  air  by  the  blast  is  collected  and 
saved  from  waste. 


A  quarter  of  wheat,  when  ground,  produces — 


Flour. 

Best  pollard. 


Biscuit  or  fine  middlings. 
Fine  pollard. 


Toppings  or  specks. 
Bran  and  coarse  pollard. 


The  pollards  are  sold  for  feeding  pigs  and  poultry,  the  bran  for  horses 
and  cattle  ;  three  kinds  of  flour  remain  for  the  bakehouse— -firsts,  for  fine 
wheaten  bread  ;  seconds  for  household  bread  ;  thirds,  for  brown  bread. 

The  flour,  when  ground,  is  placed  in  sacks  ;  each  sack  contains  five 
bushels,  that  is,  280  lbs.  The  bushel  is  divided  again  into  four  pecks.  In 
some  English  counties  BREAD  is  measured  by  the  gallon— in  Hants,  for  ex- 
ample.   In  London,  and  generally  in  England,  by  the  41b.,  or  quartern  loaf. 

American  flour  is  much  cheaper  than  English  ;  and,  when  good,  is 


*i6  Wheat— Oafs. 


very  excellent — it  is  sold  in  barrels*  Seconds  are  quite  good  enough  for 
ordinary  bread  ;  firsts  are  required  for  pastry.  The  whole  meal  should  be 
used  for  making  bread,  as  the  phosphates  of  wheat  necessary  for  forming 
bone  are  contained  in  it.  It  is  said,  on  high  medical  authority,  that  the 
decay  in  the  teeth  amongst  young  people,  so  much  more  prevalent  than  it 
was  a  century  ago,  proceeds  from  our  never  eating  anything  but  the  finest 
flour.     A  mixture  of  bran  also  assists  digestion. 

The  whole  meal  is  obtained  by  simply  grinding  the  grain  without 
sifting  it  :  it  is  not  only  best  for  nourishment,  but  would  effect  a  great 
saving  if  used. 

Flour  is  fearfully  adulterated,  the  usual  substances  used  for  the  pur- 
pose being  pea  and  bean  meal,  potato-flour,  plaster  of  Paris,  bone-dust 
and  alum.  In  purchasing  flour,  it  is  wise  to  take  up  a  handful  and  make 
a  ball  of  it.  If  it  holds  together  well  for  a  little  while  the  flour  is  probably 
pure.  Plaster  of  Paris  may  be  detected  by  its  great  weight.  Observe  in 
your  toast  whether  there  is  any  scent  of  bean  or  pea,  while  the  toast  is 
hot.  Nitric  and  muriatic  acid  will  also  test  the  purity  of  flour  ;  if  it  is  not 
adulterated  nitric  acid  will  turn  it  orange  colour,  and  muriatic  acid  will 
change  it  to  a  deep  violet  colour. 

Oats. 

Constituent  parts — lib.  oatmeal  contains — 

Oz.    Grs.  !  Oz.   Grs. 

Water 2      78  Fat  or  oil ...    .      o    397 

Flesh-formers     .     .       2     316  Woody  fibre .     .     .       2        6 

Starch 6.    153  Ashes o     210 

Sugar o    378  Cardan      ....       6     348 

Gum o     210  1 

Oats  grow  in  England,  but  are  much  finer  and  better  when  grown  in 
Scotland.  In  the  husk,  they  are  used  chiefly  as  food  for  horses.  The 
potato-oat  has  been  long  in  cultivation.  It  yields  the  very  best  quality 
known  to  English  agriculture.  The  husk  removed,  the  grain  is  called 
groats,  and  is  used  for  making  gruel.  Ground  to  a  flour,  it  is  called  oat- 
meal. Oatmeal  is  the  chief  food  of  the  Scottish  peasantry,  and  it  is 
nourishing  and  excellent,  both  when  made  into  porridge  and  cakes ;  it 
cannot  be  made  into  bread.  The  outer  husk,  unlike  that  of  wheat,  is  poor 
in  albuminoid  matters,  so  that  oatmeal  is  better  than  the  whole  oat.  Oat- 
meal is  rich  in  fat. 


*  Dr.  Poleck  has  instituted  a  series  of  researches  with  the  view  of  ascertaining 
the  cause  of  the  difference  exhibited  by  flour  preserved  in  casks,  and  that  kept  in 
bags,  the  former  of  which  often  obtains  a  peculiar  smell.  He  found  that  the 
gluten  of  flour  exhibiting  that  peculiar  smell  had  been,  in  a  great  measure,  con- 
verted into  a  soluble  modification,  whereby  the  flour  had  lost  the  capability  of 
being  converted  into  a  good  dough,  the  flour  also  having  assumed  a  sour  reaction. 
He  ascribes  the  cause  of  this  change  to  want  of  a  sufficient  circulation  of  air 
through  the  mass  of  the  flour  kept  in  casks,  the  innermost  flour  in  which  was 
most  sour  and  gave  off  the  peculiar,  somewhat  mouldy  smell.  It  was  also  found 
that  with  this  change  in  the  flour  coincides  an  increase  of  the  albuminous  com-  . 
pounds  therein  soluble  in  water. — Chemical  News. 


Oats. 


"7 


A  bushel  of  oats  weighs  39  to  41  lbs.  They  are  sold  generally,  how- 
ever,  as  oatmeal,  on  account  of  the  great  waste  occasioned  by  the  thick 
husk  in  grinding.  Oatmeal  is  sold  by  the  cwt.  or  ton.  Oats  are  the  best 
food  for  horses.  Oatmeal  porridge  is  an  excellent  food  for  children — a 
good  breakfast  for  any  one 


Potato  Oat. 


Barbachlaw  Oat, 
a  hardy  and  prolific  sort. 


ii8  Burky. 


Barley. 

Constituent  parts—  I  lb.  contains — 

Oz.    Grs.  j  Oz.  Grs. 

Water  .....       2     106               Fat o  20 

Gluten 2       22                Fibre 2  50 

Starch 7-97                Ashes o  293 

Sugar o    265  Carbon      ....  6  o 

Gum o    258  i 

Barley  is  used  in  its  natural  state  for  feeding  poultry,  and  constitutes 
the  material  for  making  malt.  When  threshed,  the  grain  is  called  Scotch 
barley ;  further  prepared,  pearl-barley  ;  carefully  ground,  patent  barley  ; 
or,  less  prepared,  barley-meal,  which  makes  agreeable  cakes. 

The  chief  value  of  barley,  however,  is  that  it  furnishes  the  malt  for  our 
beers. 

Malt  is  procured  from  barley  in  the  following  manner  :— 

The  maltster  moistens  his  barley  and  spreads  it  on  the  floor  of  a  dark 
room  to  heat  and  sprout.  When  the  germ  is  about  to  burst  from  its 
envelope,  he  stops  the  growth  by  drying  the  grain  gently  on  the  floor  of 
his  kiln.  It  is  then  called  malted  barley,  and  has  a  sweet  taste.  The 
starch  of  the  barley  is  changed  into  soluble  grape-sugar ;  the  gluten  into 
a  white  soluble  substance,  called  diastase. 

The  maltster  has  only  taken  advantage  of  the  chemistry  of  nature  with 
respect  to  a  growing  plant.  The  grain  consists  of  two  principal  sub- 
stances— starch  and  gluten.  When  moistened  by  the  rain  and  dew,  the 
grain  begins  to  sprout  ;  the  starch  and  gluten  are  intended  to  feed  the 
young  plant,  but  they  cannot  be  dissolved  in  water,  so  in  their  natural 
state  they  cannot  pass  out  of  the  body  of  the  seed  to  nourish  the  growing 
germ.  Therefore,  as  the  sprouting  proceeds,  a  chemical  change  in  them 
has  been  wonderfully  ordained.  This  change  takes  place  at  the  bottom 
of  the  germ,  exactly  where  the  starch  and  gluten  are  needed  for  food. 
The  gluten  is  changed  into  diastase  (among  other  products) ;  the  starch 
again  is  changed  by  the  diastase  mixing  with  it,  into  grape-sugar,  which  is 
soluble  in  the  sap,  and  therefore  can  be  carried  up  as  food  for  the  young 
plant.     We  all  know  that  sprouting  corn  is  sweet. 

The  maltster  retains  the  germ  just  in  this  chemical  condition,  and 
uses  for  beer  the  substance  which  nature  provides  for  the  growing  plant. 

One  pound  of  diastase  is  sufficient  to  change  a  thousand  pounds  of 
starch  into  grape-sugar. 

The  malt  is  ready,  when  thus  prepared,  for  the  mash-tub. 

By  a  further  and  very  familiar  chemical  process  it  is  turned  into  beer. 

Barley  is  deficient  in  crude  gluten. 

Barlev-meal  makes  more  fat  and  less  muscle  than  Wheat-flour. 


Maize. — Rye. — Buckwheat 


no 


Maize  or 

Indian- Corn. 

Constituent  fia) 

is 

— lib.  contains— 

Oz.    Grs. 

Oz. 

Grs. 

Water  .     .     . 

.     2       105 

Fat  or  Oil      . 

.     .     1 

101 

Gluten .     .     . 

.     1       402 

Woody  libra  , 

.     .     0 

35° 

Starch  .     .     . 

.     9       262 

Ashes  .     .     . 

.     .     0 

70 

Sugar  and  Gum 

.     0        21 

Carbon      .     . 

.    .    5f 

0 

Indian-corn  meal  is  made  from  Maize,  or  Indian  Corn,  and  is  sold  as 
polenta,  and  when  coarsely  bruised  as  hominy.  Polenta  makes  very  nice 
and  nutritious  bread,  at  a  much  lower  price  than  Wheat-flour.  The 
taste  is  very  sweet  and  peculiar.  It  has  less  gluten  than  wheat  and  more 
oil,  therefore  it  makes  more  fat  but  less  muscle. 

Many  very  nice  cakes  may  be  made  from  Indian-corn. 

The  method  of  making  bread  from  Indian-corn  (in  conjunction  with 
wheat-Hour)  is  given  in  Warne's  "  Model  Cookery  Book," 

Indian-meal  is  very  nutritious. 

Rye. 

Used  for  bread  in  Sweden  and  Russia. 
Constituent  parts — 1  lb.  contains— > 


Oz. 

Grs. 

Oz. 

Grs 

Water  .     .     . 

0 

35 

Gum     ,     .    . 

.     .     0 

37i 

Gluten .     .     . 

.     .     1 

3i3 

Sugar   .     .     , 

.     .     0 

262 

Albumen  .     . 

.     .     0 

213 

Fat  .     .     .     , 

»     .    0 

66 

Starch  .     .     . 

.     ,     8 

79 

Ashes  .     .     . 

.     .     0 

122 

Rye  makes  a  light  spongy  bread  like  wheat,  and  it  is  very  nearly 
as  nutritive  as  wheaten  bread.  Rye  bread  possesses  one  valuable 
quality,  it  retains  its  moisture  and  freshness  for  a  long  time,  and  can  be 
kept  for  months  without  becoming  hard,  dry,  and  unpalatable.  This  arises 
from  peculiar  properties  possessed  by  its  gluten.  The  Swedes  are  enabled 
therefore  to  keep  rye-cakes  strung  on  rods  under  the  roof  of  their  dwellings 
till  required, 

Buckwheat. 

Valuable  for  its  late  sowing,  rapid  growth,  and  cheap  cultivation. 


Water  . 

Gluten 
Starch  . 

(jrUIIl       . 


Constiiu 
Oz. 


vi  t  parts 

Grs. 
118 

165 

o 

140 


■lib.  co n tain s- 


Fat 

Woody  fibre . 
Mineral  matter 


Oz. 
o 

3 
o 


Grs 

70 
114 
126 


Buckwheat  flour  is  nearly  as  nutritious  as  wheaten  flour,  and  makes 
excellent  cakes.  They  are  eaten  in  the  backwoods  of  America  hot  and 
5Preac|  with  maule  honey. 


i-°  Buckwheat  Cakes. — Bread. 


American  Buckwheat  Cakes. 

One  quart  of  buckwheat  flour,  one  heaped-up  dessert  spoonful  of 
Borwick's  baking  powder,  a  little  salt.     Enough  water  to  make  a  batter. 

Make  a  batter  of  the  above  ingredients  ;  put  a  very  little  dripping  or 
butter  in  a  frying-pan,  hardly  greasing  the  pan.  Drop  in  portions  of  the 
batter,  and  fry.  When  the  cakes  look  full  of  little  holes  turn  them.  Send 
them  to  table  very  hot.     They  are  eaten  with  butter  or  golden  syrup. 

Half  the  above  quantity  suffices  for  a  small  family. 

Wheaten  Bread. 

If  flour  be  mixed  with  sufficient  water,  the  particles  will  cohere  and 
form  a  smooth  elastic  substance  called  dough.  When  a  little  yeast  is  added 
to  the  flour  before,  or  as  it  is  being  mixed  with  the  water,  and  the  dough  is 
placed  for  an  hour  or  two  near  the  fire,  the  warmth  will  cause  the  yeast  to 
make  it  ferment,  or  rise,  as  cooks  say — that  is,  it  will  swell  up.  This 
fermentation  is  the  consequence  of  the  peculiar  action  which  yeast  exer- 
cises over  moist  flour.  It  first  changes  a  part  of  the  starch  which  is  in  the 
flour  into  sugar,  and  then  turns  this  sugar  into  alcohol  and  carbonic  acid, 
in  exactly  the  same  way  as  it  does  in  the  worts  of  the  brewer  or  spirit 
distiller.  Therefore,  when  the  poorer  classes  objected  to  unfermented 
bread  as  being  "  without  its  gin,"  they  were  scientifically  correct,  although 
the  greater  part  of  the  alcohol  escapes  during  the  baking  of  the  loaf,  and 
is  actually  lost  in  the  oven.  The  carbonic  acid  gas,  unable  to  make  its 
way  out  through  the  glutinous  dough,  forms  large  bubbles  within  it  and 
makes  it  swell,  till  the  heat  of  the  oven  at  last  kills  the  yeast  plant,  when 
the  fermentation  suddenly  ceases  ;  this  takes  place  when  the  heat  reaches 
the  boiling-point— 212° ;  till  then  heat  assists  the  fermentation. 

New  bread  is  very  soft  and  pleasant,  though  from  its  spongy  nature  it 
is  thought  indigestible.  In  a  day  or  two  it  becomes  stale  and  will  crumble. 
It  can  be  made  as  fresh  as  ever  again,  however,  by  just  dipping  it  in 
water  and  exposing  it  again  to  the  heat  of  an  oven,  or  treating  it  in  a  closely 
covered  tin.  The  same  effect  is  produced  without  wetting  the  bread,  if  the 
heat  to  which  it  is  subjected  is  at  21 2°. 

The  bread  we  eat  is  nearly  one-half  water,  for  the  flour  contains  water 
naturally,  and  absorbs  much  more  in  its  conversion  into  bread.  One 
hundred  pounds  of  wheaten  flour  take  up  fifty  pounds  weight  of  water,  and 
yield  one  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  of  bread.  The  water  does  not  eva- 
porate from  the  bread  in  the  oven  and  the  air,  as  much  as  we  might 
expect,  because  the  gluten,  or  flour,  is  difficult  to  dry,  and  retains  the 
water ;  part  of  the  starch  is  converted  into  gum,  and  also  holds  it,  and 
the  crust  of  the  loaf,  which  is  dry  and  thick,  retains  the  moisture  within  it. 
Wheaten  bread  contains  in  due  proportions — water,  gluten,  starch,  sugar, 
and  gum. 

By  making  bread  at  home  we  save  the  weight  of  water  used  in  making 
each  loaf,  a  very  considerable  economy  in  a  large  family. 


I?I 


THE   YEAST   PLANT. 


The  yeast  with  which  we  raise  our  bread  is  a  minute  plant  belonging 
to  the  division  of  the  Conferva.  It  grows  in  certain  substances — iiTthe 
juice  of  ripe  grapes,  in  the  syrup  of  sugar-cane,  in  beer,  etc.  etc.  "  The 
minuteness  of  the  yeast  plant,"  says  Professor  Johnston  in  his  admirable 
"  Chemistry  of  Common  Life,"  (to  which  we  refer  our  readers  for  much 
valuable  information),  "  the  minuteness  of  the  yeast  plant,  consisting  in  its 
simplest  form  of  only  a  single  cell,  long  prevented  it  from  being  generally 
regarded  as  a  form  of  living  matter.  But  the  changes  it  undergoes  in  the 
fermenting  tub,  day  by  day,  as  shown  by  the  microscope,  prove  it  to  be  un- 
questionably a  growing  vegetable."* 

"If  we  filter  the  juice  of  ripe  grapes  we  obtain  a  clear  transparent 
liquid.  Within  half  an  hour  this  liquid  begins  to  grow  first  cloudy,  and 
afterwards  thick  ;  to  give  off  bubbles  of  gas  or  to  ferment ;  and  in  three 
hours  a  greyish  yellow  layer  of  yeast  has  collected  on  its  surface.  In  the 
heat  of  the  fermentation  the  plants  are  produced  by  millions  ;  a  single 
cubic  inch  of  such  yeast,  free  from  adhering  water,  containing  52,000,000 
of  the  minute  organisms." 

Yeast  has  the  power  of  changing  sujar  into  alcohol  or  pure  spirit,  and 
of  raising  bread  by  fermentation. 

Distillers  do  not  wait  for  the  natural  appearance  of  the  plant ;  they  add 
a  little  existing  yeast  to  the  liquor  as  socn  as  it  is  ready  for  fermentation, 
because  they  know  how  swiftly  this  mysteious  plant  will  grow  and  propa- 
gate itself.  The  making  of  yeast  is  one  branch  of  business  itself  now. 
It  is  sold  as  dry  yeast  for  the  use  of  the  private  baker  or  brewer.  The 
process  is  thus  given  in  the  "  Chemistry  of  Common  Life,"  vol.  i.  p.  86. 

"  Crushed  rye  is  mashed  with  the  propei  quantity  of  barley-malt,  and 
the  wort  when  made  cooled  to  the  proper  temperature.  For  every  hun- 
dred pounds  of  the  crushed  grain,  there  are  now  added  half  a  pound  of 
carbonate  of  soda  and  six  ounces  of  oil  of  viviol  (sulphuric  acid)  diluted 
with  much  water,  and  the  wort  is  then  brougit  into  fermentation  by  the 
addition  of  yeast.  From  the  strongly  fermentinr  liquid  the  yeast  is  skim- 
med off  and  strained  through  a  hair-sieve  into  ctld  water,  through  which 
it  is  allowed  to  settle.  It  is  afterwards  washed  wih  one  or  two  waters,  and 
finally  pressed  in  cloth-bags  till  it  has  the  consistency  of  dough.  It  has  a 
pleasant  fruity  smell,  and  in  a  cool  place  may  bt.  kept  for  two  or  three 
weeks.  It  then  passes  into  a  putrefying  decomposition,  acquires  the  odour 
of  decaying  cheese,  and  like  decaying  cheese,  has  now  the  property  of 
changing  sugar  into  lactic  acid,  instead  of  into  alcohol  is  before.  A  hundred 
pounds  of  crushed  grain  will  yield  six  to  eight  poinds  of  the  pressed 
yeast.  It  is  made  largely  at  Rotterdam,  and  is  imputed  thence  to  this 
country  through  Hull." 

Many  families  prefer  making  their  own  yeast  to  buyhg  the  German  or 
patent  yeast.  We  give  three  receipts  for  so  doing  in  the  ne;t  page.  Brewer's 
yeast  is  apt  sometimes  to  be  bitter — yeast  from  porter  's  always  so  ;  to 
prevent  the  bitterness  spoiling  the  bread,  it  is  well  to  put  a  red  hot  poker 


Chemistry  of  Common  Life,"  vol.  i.  p.  29, 


122  To  make  Yeast  for  Home  Consumption. 

for  a  minute  or  two  into  the  yeast,  or  to  threw  in  a  few  blades  of  grass 
which  can  afterwards  be  strained  off,  but  except  in  the  country  or  where 
the  family  brews  at  home,  brewer's  yeast  is  seldom  used  ;  the  German  and 
patent  yeasts  are  used.  The  dried  yeasts  consist  of  the  sporules  of  the 
yeast  plant,  freed  from  gas  and  moisture  by  filtering  or  evaporating  away 
the  fermented  liquid.  When  required  for  making,  this  yeast  is  dissolved 
in  lukewarm  water.  A  common  method  of  drying  yeast  is  to  dip  twigs  in 
the  yeast  and  dry  them  in  the  air ;  or  the  yeast  is  stirred  round  with  a 
whisk  till  it  is  thin,  and  then  spread  with  a  brush  over  a  clean  piece  of 
board,  and  dried  in  the  air.  When  it  is  dry  more  yeast  is  brushed  over  it. 
and  it  is  again  dried.  This  process  is  repeated  till  the  yeast  is  a  good 
thickness  on  the  board.     It  may  be  kept  on  it,  and  cut  off  as  required. 

Both  brewer's  yeast  and  artificial  yeasts  must  be  kept  in  a  cool  cellar 
or  any  very  cold  place  to  preserve  them  good. 

To  make  Yeast  for  Home  Consumption.  No.  1. 

Time  to  boil,  half  an  hour  ;  to  make,  four  days. 

Two  ounces  of  the  best  hops  ;  'our  quarts  of  water  ;  one  pound  of  best 
flour  ;  three  pounds  of  good  potatoes. 

Monday. — Boil  two  ounces  of  hops  in  four  quarts  of  water  for  half  an 
hour  ;  strain  it,  and  let  the  liqucr  cool  down  to  new  milk  warmth,  then 
put  in  a  small  handful  of  salt,  aid  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar  ;  beat  up 
one  pound  of  flour  with  some  o'the  liquor,  and  then  mix  all  well  together. 
Let  it  stand. 

Wednesday. — Add  three  punds  of  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed,  and 
let  it  stand. 

Thursday. — Strain  it  and  oottle  in  seltzer- water  bottles  for  use.  It  must 
be  stirred  frequently  while  I  is  making,  and  kept  near  the  fire.  Before 
using  shake  the  bottle  well.  It  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  two  months, 
and  is  better  for  keeping.  It  ought  to  ferment  in  the  earthen  bowl  in 
which  it  is  made. 

Receipt  No.  2. 

Twenty  mirutes  to  boil ;  twelve  hours  to  ferment. 

Two  ounces  of  hors  ;  one  gallon  of  water ;  two  and  a  half  or  three 
pounds  of  flour  ;  six  o'  seven  boiled  potatoes  ;  one  pint  of  ale  yeast. 

Boil  the  hops  in  ogallon  of  water  for  twenty  minutes  ;  strain  the  water 
through  a  hair  sieve  upon  the  two  and  a  half  or  three  pounds  of  flour — it 
will  grow  lumpy,  bu  that  is  of  no  consequence  ;  stir  it  occasionally  and 
bruise  it  with  a  wo'den  spoon,  let  it  stand  till  cool,  and  then  keep  it  close 
to  the  fire  all  ni;ht.  The  next  day  fill  a  wide-covered  stone  jar  with 
it ;  then  add  six  a'  seven  boiled  potatoes  mashed,  and  a  pint  of  ale  yeast 
to' it  (taking  a  put  out  of  the  jar  before  you  put  the  potatoes  and  barm 
in).     Stir  it  wel  up  and  let  it  stand  till  the  next  day ;  then  bottle  it  for 

use. 

Receipt  No.  3. 

One  pound  of  lour ;  quarter  of  a  pound  of  yeast ;  a  little  salt  ;  two 
gallons  of  water.  Boil  for  one  hour.  When  milk-warm,  bottle  and  cork 
well     U  is  fit  forusQ  in  twenty-four  hours. 


The  Ovin. — Mixing  the  Dough.  123 


Yeast  may  be  preserved  by  mixing  it  while  yet  moist  with  powdered 
sugar.  The  yeast  ought  not  to  contain  too  much  water,  and  there  should 
be  enough  sugar  added  to  make  a  thick  syrup  of  the  whole.  A  deficiency 
in  the  quantity  of  sugar,  and  an  abundance  of  water,  are  likely  to  bring 
about  a  fermentation  in  hot  weather.  It  has  been  recently  proposed  to 
mix  pure  glycerine  with  the  yeast,  instead  of  sugar.  The  efficiency  of  the 
preparation  was  tested,  and  found  to  be  good  after  four  months'  preserva- 
tion in  winter. 

THE    OVEN. 

The  best  oven  for  baking  bread  is  the  brick  oven;  but  bread  can  be 
made  at  home  and  baked  in  the  iron  oven  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  if  good 
care  be  taken  in  the  operation.  There  is  an  Italian  expedient  for  baking 
bread,  which  we  venture  to  suggest  to  ladies  who  possess  only  an  iron 
oven.  The  peasants  of  Italy  bake  their  loaves  in  flower-pots,  or  rather  in 
bowls  of  a  similar  material  in  their  charcoal  fires.  Now  if  the  dough  be 
put  into  a  nice  new  flower-pot  of  the  size  preferred,  and  the  bread 
baked  in  it  {in  the  iron  oven),  the  bread  will  bake  quite  as  well  as  in  a 
brick  oven,  because  the  heat  will  be  graduated  in  the  same  way,  and  both 
sides  of  the  loaf,  if  turned  carefully,  will  be  equally  well  done. 

In  heating  a  brick  oven  fagots  of  brushwood  are  used  as  fuel,  or  quick- 
burning  coal,  which  leaves  little  ash.  The  oven  should  be  heated  for  about 
thirty  or  thirty-five  minutes,  then  the  fuel  should  be  taken  out,  the  floor 
swept,  and  the  door  closely  shut  to  diffuse  the  heat  for  about  twenty- 
five  minutes  before  the  loaves  are  put  in. 

The  right  heat  can  be  ascertained  thus  :  it  is  not  too  hot  if  the  hand 
can  be  held  in  it  (not  of  course  touching  the  bricks)  whilst  counting 
twenty.  An  oven  can  be  generally  heated  in  one  hour ;  sometimes  in 
even  less. 

MIXING   THE    DOUGH. 

Put  seven  pounds  of  flour  into  a  deep  pan  ;  heap  it  round  the  sides, 
and  leave  a  hollow  in  the  centre  ;  pour  into  it  a  quart  of  milk-warm  water, 
a  large  spoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  gill  of  yeast ;  have  ready  three  pints 
more  of  warm  water  and,  using  it  as  you  require  it,  make  the  whole  into 
rather  a  soft  dough,  kneading  it  with  both  hands  ;  when  it  is  smooth  and 
shining  strew  a  little  flour  on  it  ;  lay  a  thickly-folded  cloth  over  it,  and  set 
it  in  a  warm  place  by  the  fire  for  four  or  five  hours  ;  then  knead  it  again 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  In  order  to  knead  properly  flour  the  hands,  and 
folding  the  fingers  over  the  thumb  make  a  fist,  and  beat  and  pummel  the 
dough  on  every  side  ;  work  it  till  it  ceases  to  stick  to  your  hands.  Bread 
cannot  be  kneaded  too  much.  Cover  it  over  and  set  it  to  rise  again.  Divide 
it  into  two  or  four  loaves,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  The  quantities  can 
be  increased  as  required.  In  cold  weather  bread  should  be  made  in  a 
warm  room,  and  not  allowed  to  become  cold  while  rising.  If  it  does  not 
rise  well  set  the  pan  over  a  bucket  of  boiling  water. 

Brown  bread  can  be  made  from  three  parts  of  seconds  flour,  fourth 
part  of  rye,  a  little  milk,  and  the  due  quantity  of  water  required  for 
mixing. 

Bread  may  be  made  without  yeast  if  the  following  ingredients  be  used: — 
One  stone  of  fine  flour,  two  ounces  of  carbonate  of  soda,  one  and  a  half 


124  Potato  Bread. 


ounce  of  tartaric  acid.  Mix  this  flour  with  cold  water,  and  the  usual  allow- 
ance of  salt,  and  put  the  dough  into  the  oven  directly  it  is  made — a  pint 
of  cold  water  to  two  pounds  of  the  flour. 

Quartern  loaves  take  on  an  average  about  two  hours  to  bake  ;  half- 
quarterns  nearly  an  hour  and  a  half.  Bread  may  be  made  also  with  the 
addition  of  rice,  Indian-meal,  potatoes,  and  sago  to  the  flour  in  the  fol- 
lowing proportions  of  mixture  : — one  and  a  half  of  rice  to  fourteen  pounds 
of  flour  ;  seven  pounds  of  Indian-meal  to  fourteen  pounds  of  flour  ;  five 
pounds  of  potatoes  to  fourteen  pounds  of  flour  ;  one  pound  of  sago  to 
fourteen  pounds  of  flour.  These  mixtures  cheapen  the  bread  considerably. 
Indian-meal  is  the  best  mixture,  as  it  is  nearly  as  nourishing  as  wheaten 
flour,  but  rice  and  potatoes  are  not  nourishing  ;  they  do  not  supply  the 
wants  of  the  system,  because  they  have  very  little  of  the  nitrogenized 
principle  which  makes  muscle  and  bone,  but  if  meat  be  eaten  in  sufficient 
quantity,  potato  and  rice  bread  will  suffice  for  the  family  needs  ;  wheaten 
bread,  however,  being  always  the  best. 

Potato  Bread. 

This  is  one  of  the  best  varieties  of  mixed  or  cheap  bread  when  it  is 
made  with  care,  as  its  flavour  is  excellent,  and  it  remains  moist  longer  than 
any  other  except  rice-bread  ;  but  the  potatoes  used  for  it  should  be  good, 
thoroughly  boiled,  well  dried  afterwards  (by  having  the  water  poured  from 
them,  and  then  standing  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  steam),  and  reduced  to  a 
perfect  paste  by  mashing,  or  by  rubbing  quickly  through  a  colander  or 
other  coarse  strainer.  They  should  be  perfectly  mixed  with  the  flour  or 
meal  while  they  are  still  warm,  and  after  the  addition  of  rather  more  salt 
than  for  common  bread.  The  dough,  which  will  require  less  liquid  than 
wheaten  dough,  should  be  made  smoothly  and  firmly  and  be  managed 
afterwards  like  other  bread,  but  be  baked  in  a  more  gentle  oven.  Seven 
pounds  of  potatoes  weighed  after  they  are  cooked  and  peeled  may  be 
added  to  each  gallon  of  meal  or  flour.  Should  it  be  necessary  from  cir- 
cumstances that  cannot  be  controlled,  to  use  such  as  are  watery,  the 
moisture  may  be  partly  wrung  from  them  in  a  warm  thick  cloth  before 
they  are  mixed  with  the  other  ingredients* 

Unfermented  bread  is  made  according  to  Dr.  Pereira  as  follows  : — 
Flour,  one  pound  ;  bicarbonate  of  soda,  forty  grains ;  cold  water,  half  a 
pint  ;  muriatic  acid,  forty  drops. 

Aerated  bread  is  made  by  putting  flour  into  an  iron  box,  moistening  it 
with  water  into  which  carbonic  acid  gas  has  been  forced,  and  kneading  it 
by  machinery  inside  the  box.  In  ten  minutes  the  dough  is  ready  for  baking. 

Baking  powders  are  also  used  instead  of  yeast.  The  common  propor- 
tions of  these  powders  are  one  part  of  tartaric  acid,  two  of  carbonate  of 
soda,  four  of  potato  flour,  and  a  little  turmeric  powder  to  give  a  yellow  tint. 

When  mixed  with  flour  and  wetted  they  effervesce  and  diffuse  the  car- 
bonic acid  through  the  dough,  as  yeast  does.f 


*  "  The  English  Bread-book."     By  Eliza  Acton. 
+  Baking  Powders. — These  are  best  bought  ;  but  if  our  readers  are  unable 
to  procure  any,  they  can  be  made  thus  : — One  pound  of  ground  rice,  half  a  pound 


Oaten ,  Barley,  and  Sago  Bread.  125 

Oaten  bread  requires  to  make  it  warm  water,  a  good  deal  of  yeast,  and 
much  kneading — but  it  is  not  good. 

Barley  bread  takes  less  yeast. 

We  need  scarcely  observe  that  a  piece  of  sour  dough  will  act  instead 
of  yeast,  and  leaven  the  bread  ;  but  the  bread  has  always  an  acid  taste. 

The  water  used  for  bread  making  should  be  soft  water,  if  it  can  be  had, 
well-filtered.  The  more  water  used  the  looser  the  dough  will  be,  and  if 
baked  in  tins  it  will  be  the  lighter,  or  bran  water  is  excellent,  adding  quite 
one-fifth  to  the  bread.  It  is  prepared  thus  :— Boil  three  pounds  of  bran 
in  water  for  every  twenty-eight  pounds  of  flour  you  mean  to  use  ;  boil  it 
for  an  hour  ;  strain  the  water  off  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  use  it  for  mix- 
ing the  flour. 

Sago  Bread. 

Sago  is  procured  from  the  sago  palm.  The  meal  is  extracted  from  the 
pith  by  rubbing  it  to  powder,  and  then  washing  it  with  water  in  a  sieve. 

It  makes  alone  a  kind  of  bread  or  hard  cake,  and  is  the  chief  food  of 
the  inhabitants  of  New  Guinea,  and  parts  of  the  African  coast.  It  is 
stated  that  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  sago  bread  will  suffice  for  daily  food 
for  a  healthy  man. 

For  numerous  receipts  for  bread,  cake,  and  biscuit  making  we  refer  the 
reader  to  Warne's  "  Model  Cookery  Book." 

Flour  should  be  kept  in  a  chest  or  bin  in  a  dry  place.  A  good  tin  bin 
is  better  than  a  wooden  one  ;  it  is  drier,  and  is  proof  against  vermin. 

Grown  flour,  as  it  is  called,  is  the  flour  of  wheat  which,  in  consequence 
of  much  rain,  has  germinated  in  the  field  before  it  could  be  harvested. 
Our  readers  will  understand  from  what  we  have  before  said  on  the  subject 
(seep.  118),  that  the  effect  of  germination  is  to  change  the  gluten  into 
diastase,  which  converts  the  starch  of  the  flour  into  sugar.  Now  flour 
deprived  of  gluten  cannot  retain  carbonic  acid  gas,  and  yeast  consequently 
cannot  act  on  it ;  therefore  grown  flour  makes  only  heavy  and  indigestible 
bread.  We  should,  of  course,  never  purchase  it ;  but  supposing  that  we 
are  in  a  wild  land  where  we  sow  and  reap,  harvest  and  grind  for  ourselves, 
it  is  well  to  know  that  our  grown  wheat  may  be  used.  It  riiust  be  kiln- 
dried  before  grinding  ;  the  flour  should  have  forty  grains  of  carbonate  of 
magnesia  to  the  pound  of  flour  added  to  it,  if  very  bad.     Bread  made  of 


of  carbonate  of  soda,  and  six  ounces  of  tartaric  acid  :  this  last  ingredient  must  be 
beaten  in  a  mortar,  or  crashed  with  a  rolling-pin,  to  make  it  as  fine  and  smooth  as 
possible  before  adding  it  to  the  rest.  The  whole  is  to  be  passed  through  a  sieve, 
and  kept  in  a  dry  place  for  use,  in  a  glass  bottle  with  a  wide  mouth.  In  using 
mix  with  cold  water,  and  put  the  dough  made  instantly  into  the  oven.     Or, 

Two  ounces  of  tartaric  acid,  three  ounces  of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  and  three 
ounces  of  potato  flour.     Mix,  by  passing  them  through  a  dry  sieve  altogether. 

Baking  Powder  for  Hot  Rolls. — Six  ounces  of  carbonate  of  soda,  four 
ounces  of  tartaric  acid,  two  ounces  of  finely  powdered  and  sifted  sugar,  one  ounce 
of  salt ;  mix  well.  After  the  flour  is  made  dough  with  milk,  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  the  powder  to  every  pound  of  flour,  knead  it  well  in.  The  powder  is  kept  for 
use  well  corked  up. 


126  Weights  of  Bread. — Bran. 

grown  flour  requires  the  oven  to  be  extra  hot,  and  the  bread  must  be  eaten 
when  quite  stale.  In  the  north  of  Sweden  where  the  sun  often  refuses  to 
fully  ripen  the  grain,  it  is  exposed  to  dry  in  the  sun  and  air  on  a  rack 
which  is  to  be  found  outside  most  houses,  and  where  it  becomes  fit  for 
use,  though  cut  before  it  is  quite  ripe. 

French  Bread. 

Two  quarts  of  flour,  scald  one  pint  of  it ;  butter,  half  the  size  of  an 
egg  ;  mix  with  cold  water,  two-thirds  cup  of  yeast.  When  mixed,  knead 
fifteen  minutes,  using  as  little  additional  flour  as  possible.  Let  it  rise 
twelve  hours.  Cut  and  work  with  a  knife  ten  minutes  before  putting  it  into 
the  pan  to  bake. 

Bread  Griddle  Cakes  with  Water. 

Soak  pieces  of  stale  bread  in  water  till  quite  soft ;  drain  them  through 
a  sieve,  rub  the  bread  through  a  colander.  To  one  quart  of  this  add 
three  eggs  and  milk  to  made  a  thick  batter.     Bake  on  a  griddle. 

Soda  Griddle  Cakes. 

One  pint  milk,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoon  soda,  flour  to 
mke  a  thin  batter. 

Weights  of  Bread. 

A  quartern  loaf  should  weigh  4  lbs.  Sz  ozs. 
A  half-peck  loaf,  8  lbs.  1 1  ozs. 
A  peck  or  stone  of  flour  is  14  lbs. 
A  bushel,  56  lbs. 

A  sack,  5  bushels,  or  280  lbs.,  or  i\  cwt. 
Bakers  may  be  required  to  weigh  the  bread  they  sell,  but  fancy  bread 
is  not  sold  by  weight. 

To  Discover  Alum  in  Bread. 

Heat  a  knife  and  stick  it  into  a  loaf.  If  alum  is  in  it,  it  will  slightly 
coat  the  knife. 

Alum  may  also  be  discovered  in  bread  (if  it  be  present)  by  dipping  a 
slice  of  the  loaf  into  an  infusion  of  logwood.  The  logwood  will  turn  a 
purplish  carmine  if  there  is  alum  in  it. 

Bread  is  not  good  if  there  are  black  specks  on  the  upper  crust,  or  if 
the  bottom  crust  grows  moist  and  sodden  by  standing. 


BRAN. 

Constituent  parts  in  1  lb. : 

Oz.  Grs. 

Oz. 

Grs. 

.     2      92 

Fat 

.     0 

252 

1     2     169 

Woody  fibre    .    . 

.     1 

242 

.     8     128 

Mineral  matter    . 

*     0 

358 

Water    .    .    . 

Gluten  and  Cerealin     2 

Starch   \     .     . 

Sugar o      70 

From  this  table  it  will  be  apparent  that  a  portion  of  bran  should  be 
left  in  the  flour. 


Hominy. — Milk,  Cheese,  and  Butter.  127 


HOMINY. 

Hominy  is  Indian-corn  shelled  from  the  cob,  and  divested  of  its  skin. 
It  is  then  dried  for  use. 

There  are  three  sizes  of  hominy  ;  the  middle  size  is  the  best. 

Wash  a  teacup  of  hominy  in  plenty  of  water,  rubbing  it  between  the 
hands  ;  all  that  is  not  good  will  rise  to  the  top  ;  drain  off  the  first  water, 
then  add  more  ;  stir  it  in  this  ;  let  it  settle  and  pour  off  the  water  ;  then 
put  to  it  a  quart  of  water,  cover  it  and  let  it  stand  all  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  set  the  vessel  which  contains  it  in 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire  :  one  hour  will  boil  it.  The  reason 
for  putting  the  vessel  in  water  is,  that  otherwise  the  hominy  is  very  liable  to 
burn.  It  may  be  set  in  an  oven,  or  over  a  very  gentle  heat,  without 
danger  of  burning.  When  all  the  water  is  absorbed,  stir  it  well  with 
a  spoon,  turn  it  out  in  a  deep  dish,  leave  it  and  serve  for  breakfast  with 
broiled  steak,  fried  oysters,  or  chickens.  This  is  extremely  palatable 
and  wholesome,  and  much  liked  though  not  generally  known.  Some 
hominy  is  much  sweeter  than  other.  It  may  be  eaten  with  butter  for 
breakfast,  or  with  a  sauce  of  butter,  sugar,  and  nutmeg  for  dessert,  the 
same  as  rice. 

Coarse  hominy  requires  five  or  six  hours'  boiling.  Cooked  with  dried 
beans  and  pork,  it  is  called  succatash. 

MILK,    CHEESE,   AND   BUTTEE. 

1  lb.  of  Coius  Milk  contains — 

Oz.  Grs.  Oz.  Grs. 

Water 13  333               Sugar o  315 

Casein o  350  Mineral  matter    .     .     o  70 

Butter o  245  | 

The  substance  casein  (the  curd  which  forms  the  cheese)  resembles  the 
gluten  of  vegetables,  the  fibrin  of  meat,  and  the  albumen  of  the  egg  in 
nutritive  qualities  ;  it  possesses  the  same  value,  weight  for  weight,  as 
food  ;  but  when  eaten  alone  as  cheese,  is,  like  eggs,  a  constipating  food. 

When  the  curd  and  cream  have  been  taken  from  the  milk,  and  the 
whey  is  evaporated  to  dryness,  sugar  of  milk  is  obtained ;  this  sugar 
represents  the  starch  of  wheaten  bread,  while  the  butter  and  curd  or 
casein  represent  the  fibrin  and  fat  of  meat  ;  consequently  milk  partakes 
of  the  nature  both  of  animal  and  vegetable  food. 

The  power  of  retaining  the  globules  of  air  or  steam  in  moistened  flour 
when  baking,  possessed  by  the  white  of  egg,  belongs,  though  in  a  less 
degree,  to  the  curd  of  milk ;  consequently  bread  is  much  improved  in 
lightness  and  appearance  when  it  is  made  with  milk. 

Asses'  milk  is  considered  excellent  for  invalids.     1  lb.  of  it  contains  : 

Oz.  Grs.  J                                            Oz.  Grs. 

Water 14  76              Sugar o    420 

Casein o  140  Mineral  matter    .     .     o      35 

Butter     .     ,     .     ,     .     o  105 


128  Milk,  Cheese,  and  Butter. 

Milk  is  full  of  very  minute  globules  of  oil,  which  may  be  seen  by  the 
microscope  floating  on  a  transparent  liquid.  It  would  take  10,000  of  them 
to  cover  an  inch  if  placed  side  by  side.  These  globules  are  transparent 
in  themselves,  but  they  cause  the  opacity  of  the  milk  by  scattering  and 
bending  the  rays  of  light  which  reach  them.  If  milk  is  left  standing  the 
greater  number  of  these  oil  globules  rise  to  the  surface  and  are  called 
cream.  The  milk  beneath  (which  becomes  skim  milk)  is  nearly  trans- 
parent, and  would  be  quite  if  all  the  globules  had  risen.  Churning  cream 
breaks  these  globules  (each  of  which  is  enclosed  in  a  thin  membrane  or 
bag)  and  the  oil  united  into  a  mass  is  easily  made  into  butter.  The 
Devonshire  clotted  cream  is  made  by  heating  the  ordinary  cream  nearly 
to  the  boiling-point,  when  the  envelopes  of  the  oil  globules  burst ;  the  rich 
oily  cream  after  standing  some  hours  is  skimmed  off. 

The  casein  or  flesh-former  in  milk  is  held  in  solution  in  it  by  an  alkali 
which  is  known  to  have  the  power  of  doing  this  ;  an  acid,  by  neutralizing 
the  alkali,  solidifies  the  casein  into  CURD.  When  milk  is  drunk,  the  acid 
of  the  gastric  juice  at  once  renders  the  casein  of  the  milk  solid  in  the 
stomach  ;  and  milk  soured  by  keeping  will,  as  we  all  know,  curdle. 

An  acid  thrown  into  milk  produces  the  same  effect,  and  changes  it  to 
curd  and  whey. 

Rennet,  by  producing  acid  and  rendering  the  casein  insoluble,  helps  us 
to  obtain  it  for  the  manufacture  of  cheese ;  the  substance  next  perhaps  to 
animal  food  in  nourishing  properties. 

The  milk  of  ewes  and  goats  is  the  richest,  possessing  as  much  as  nine 
per  cent,  of  casein  and  ten  per  cent,  of  butter. 

Milk  is  adulterated  with  water,  chalk,  and  starch,  and  is  sometimes 
sold  as  pure  milk  when  it  is  quite  skim  milk. 

The  Lactometer  is  the  instrument  used  for  testing  milk,  and  should 
find  a  place  in  every  well-furnished  house.  It  is  a  glass  tube,  closed  at 
one  end,  and  marked  with  fine  divisions  on  the  outside.  The  milk  is  left 
for  twenty-four  hours  in  the  tube,  and  the  depth  of  the  cream  which  forms 
on  it  can  be  ascertained  by  means  of  the  graduations  marked. 

Chalk  leaves  a  white  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the  glass  if  milk  is  left 
standing.  The  milk  should  be  poured  off  without  disturbing  this  sedi- 
ment, and  water  should  be  poured  on  it,  and  it  should  again  be  allowed  to 
settle  ;  repeat  this  a  second  time  and  a  white  powder  will  be  left.  If  it 
effervesces  with  an  acid  it  is  chalk. 

Cream  may  be  kept  by  putting  two  or  three  lumps  of  sugar  into  it ; 
boiling  it  first.     It  may  be  kept,  if  scalded,  without  sugar. 

To  make  Curds  and  Whey. — Into  a  tumbler  of  new  milk  put  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  dissolved  citric  acid  (or  squeeze  a  lemon  in).  The  milk  will 
curdle  directly,  and  the  whey  will  be  clear  and  acid. 

We  must  not,  in  treating  of  milk,  omit  to  mention  the  recent  prepa- 
ration of  Swiss  milk,  which  has  taken  so  good  a  place  in  the  nourishment 
of  infants  brought  up  by  hand.  It  is  a  valuable  preparation,  and  if  kept 
in  the  house  will  often  be  found  of  the  greatest  service  for  some  pressing 
and  sudden  need  ;  mixed  with  water  it  is  equal  to  and  better  than  any 
bought  milk.  The  Dairymaid  brand  is  the  best.  It  can  be  bought  at 
from  Z\d.  to  u.  per  tin.  Babes  who  cannot  be  reared  on  bought  cow's 
milk,  will  thrive  on  Swiss  milk. 

A  simple  preventive  of  milk  "  turning"  in  summer  is,  to  put  fifteen 


Cheese. — Butter.  129 


grains  of  bicarbonate  of  soda  to  each  quart  of  milk.     It  does  not  affect 
the  taste. 

CHEESE. 


Cheese  contains  in  100  parts- 


Cheddar. 

Water     ....  36 

Curd 29 

Fat 30^- 

Ash 44 


Ski  mined  Cheese. 
Water     ....     44 

Curd 45 

Fat 6 

Ash 5 


In  making  cheese  the  milk  is  first  curdled  with  rennet.  The  curd  is 
then  separated  from  the  whey  ;  in  which  the  milk  of  sugar  remains  in  a 
liquid  form.  The  curd  is  carefully  pressed  and  dried.  It  will  be  seen 
that  both  the  rich  and  poor  cheeses  are  without  sugar  or  starch.  To 
supply  this  lack  bread  is  eaten  with  them,  bread  being  the  vegetable  food 
containing  it.  Skim-milk  cheese  would  require  butter  to  be  eaten  with  it 
also,  in  order  that  the  due  proportion  of  nourishment  might  be  obtained 
from  it.  When  the  curd  has  been  obtained  by  rennet,  it  is  salted  to  keep 
it  from  putrefaction,  and  sometimes  coloured  with  annatto  or  carrot. 
It  is  then  pressed  into  a  cheese.  The  cheese  is  kept  in  a  dry  place  to 
ripen,  as  it  is  called.  This  process  is  a  kind  of  fermentation  by  which 
certain  acids  are  produced. 

The  richness  of  cheese  depends  on  the  quantity  of  cream  left  in  the 
milk  used  for  it.  Skim-milk  forms  the  poor  and  salt  cheeses  (as  Dutch 
cheese,  etc.).     They  contain  casein  and  little  else,  but  are  nourishing. 

Stilton  cheese  is  made  of  milk  with  cream  added  to  it. 

Cream  cheese  is  made  from  cream  alone.     It  is  eaten  fresh. 

The  chief  makes  of  cheese  are — Stilton,  which  is  very  expensive, 
from  is.  2d.  to  Is.  6d.  per  pound  ;  Cheddar  next  in  price  ;  Cheshire,  Wilt- 
shire, Derbyshire,  Gloucester,  and  Irish,  Scotch,  Dutch,  and  American. 
We  may  add,  as  luxuries,  Parmesan,  Neufchatel,  and  Gruyere  cheeses. 
American  and  Dutch  cheeses  are  extremely  cheap — yd.  or  8d.  per  pound  ; 
Gloucester  is  about  the  medium  of  expense. 

Cheese  is  chosen  by  taste  :  the  strong  and  pungent  ones  are  the  most 
economical,  as  less  is  eaten  at  a  time ;  the  mild  and  creamy  consume 
rapidly.  In  large  households  it  is  advisable  to  lay  in  cheese  in  the 
autumn  ;  but  in  small  families  and  towns  it  is  best  to  buy  it  as  required. 
One  person  cannot  consume  more  than  half  a  pound  of  cheese  in  a  week, 
with  meat.  If  a  larger  piece  of  cheese  happens  to  be  sent  or  bought  than 
can  be  eaten  at  once,  the  piece  to  be  kept  must  have  a  buttered  paper  tied 
over  the  cut  side,  and  then  be  tied  up  in  strong  brown  paper  and  kept 
covered  over  in  a  very  cold  and  dry  place. 

BUTTER. 

Butter  is  either  fresh,  potted,  or  salt.  The  potted  butters  are  the 
Dorset,  Welsh,  and  Ostend,  and  are  slightly  salted.  The  salt  butter  is 
coarse  looking,  but  will  keep  a  long  time.  The  mode  of  making  butter 
will  be  found  in  the  article  entitled  "The  Dairy."  Butter  has  been 
frightfully  expensive  in  London  of  late  years  ;  the  best   cannot  be  bought 

K 


13°  To  Sweeten  Rancid  Butter. — Cheese  Pudding. 

under  is.  per  pound.  This  rate  has  caused  great  adulteration  in  the 
article,  of  which  the  most  frightful  stories  are  told  :  the  suet  or  fat  of  dead 
dogs  melted  down  with  oils  and  chemically  prepared,  is  said  to  be  sent  to 
Holland,  and  from  thence  imported  back  as  Dutch  butter :  nay,  by  a 
chemical  preparation,  the  slimy  sewage  of  the  Thames  is  said  to  be  con- 
vertible into  butter.  It  is  wise,  therefore,  for  the  housewife  to  have  her 
butter  sent  up  from  a  dairy  she  knows,  if  possible  ;  if  not,  she  should  buy 
it  at  a  first-class  shop  and  give  a  good  price  for  it. 

Butter  should  be  kept  in  a  terracotta  stand ;  in  hot  weather  ice  is 
required  to  keep  it  firm  and  sweet.  Those  who  are  unable  to  procure  ice 
may  refrigerate  it  by  placing  the  bowl  which  holds  it  in  a  basin  of  salt- 
petre and  water  ;  cover  the  bowl  over,  lay  on  and  round  it  a  clean  cloth 
with  its  ends  in  the  saltpetre  water,  which  by  capillary  attraction  will  keep 
it  wet  all  over.  Stand  it  in  a  cool,  dark  place,  for  light  and  heat  are 
inseparable. 

To  Sweeten  Rancid  Butter. 

If  butter  which  has  become  rancid  be  washed  with  new  milk,  and 
afterwards  with  water,  it  will  become  as  good  as  ever.  The  rancid  flavour 
of  butter  that  has  been  long  exposed  to  the  air  is  due  to  what  the  chemists 
call  butyric  acid,  which,  being  soluble  in  milk,  accounts  for  that  fluid  re- 
moving the  bad  taste  of  rancid  butter.  The  water  with  which  the  butter  is 
afterwards  rinsed  is  used  to  take  away  any  of  the  superfluous  milk  which, 
if  left  on  the  butter,  would  become  sour.  The  manner  of  "  washing"  butter, 
or  any  other  greasy  substance,  is  to  knead  it  in  the  cold  fluid  after  the 
fashion  of  kneading  dough. 

Thick  sour  milk  taken  from  the  pan  carefully  with  a  skimmer  without 
breaking,  may  be  eaten  with  sugar  and  nutmeg  over  it.  It  is  both  cooling 
and  palatable. 

Buttermilk  is  used  sometimes  to  make  pot-cheese  or  cottage-cheese. 

To  Make  Pot  Cheese. 

Put  buttermilk  and  thick  sour  milk  together — about  one-third  butter- 
milk. Put  it  into  a  clean  vessel  over  the  fire,  make  it  scalding  hot ;  then 
take  the  curd  from  the  whey  with  a  skimmer,  put  it  into  a  muslin  or  linen 
bag,  tie  it  up,  and  hang  it  to  drain.  After  an  hour  or  two  take  it  down, 
moisten  it  slightly  with  sweet  cream,  put  a  little  salt  to  it,  work  the  salt 
into  it  and  make  it  into  balls  the  size  of  a  teacup.  Press  them  closely,  lay 
on  a  cloth,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 
They  should  be  eaten  fresh  made. 

Cheese  Pudding. 

Well  beat  two  eggs,  add  to  them  a  teacupful  of  cream,  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  and  two  large  spoonfuls  of  best  grated  cheese.  Mix  all  well 
together  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Or, 

Beat  one  egg  and  mix  it  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one  of  bread 
crumbs,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  cheese.  If  the  cheese  be  dry, 
add  half  an  ounce  of  warmed  butter  to  the  milk. 

This  pudding  may  be  put  into  a  mould,  and  boiled  forty  minutes  ;  or, 
baked  with  bread  crumbs  and  salamandered. 


*3* 


BEEF. 

Constituent  Mr  Is  in  lib.  J 


Oz.  Grs. 

Water 8  o 

Gelatine    ....       i  62 

Fibrin  &  Albumen      1  122 


Fat  ...     . 
Mineral  matter 


Oz.     Grs. 

4    34o 
o    350 


Beef  is  the  flesh  of  the  ox,  and  is  considered  the  staple  animal  food  of 
England.  Beef  contains  fibrin,  which  resembles  the ghiten  of  plants  in 
composition  and  properties.  The  amount  of  water  in  beef  is  as  great  as 
it  is  in  the  potato  or  plantain.  It  does  not  contain  a  particle  of  starch  ; 
but  its  fibrin  is  three  times  as  great  as  that  in  ordinary  wheaten  bread  ; 
therefore,  as  far  as  this  matter  goes,  one  pound  of  beef  is  equal  to  three  of 
wheaten  bread.  The  fat  in  beef  makes  up  for  the  lacking  starch,  as  it 
yields  a  great  amount  of  heat  to  the  system.  Fat,  in  fact,  gives  more 
heat  during  its  combustion  than  any  other  form  of  food.  Fat  meat  is 
therefore  the  best  to  purchase. 

The  heavier  the  meat  is  the  more  water  it  contains,  and  this  has 
to  be  paid  for  in  the  meat  :  it  evaporates  in  roasting.  The  juice  of 
beef,  when  extracted,  contains  a  small  proportion  of  a  substance  called 
Kreatin,  which  is  rich  in  nitrogen,  and  lias  a  certain  likeness  to  the  pecu- 
liar principle  of  tea  and  coffee  (t/ieiue).  This  substance  has  an  exhila- 
rating effect  on  the  human  system,  as  a  species  of  tonic ;  and  is  the  cause 
of  beef-tea  being  so  supporting  to  invalids. 

Beef  should  be  marbled  with  fat  through  the  red  lean,  and  should 
possess  a  good  amount  of  separate  fat  (suet).  The  animal  should  have  a 
third  of  its  whole  dead  weight  of  fat. 

Beef,  in  cooking,  loses  on  an  average  1  lb.  in  four  when  boiled  ;  lib.  3  oz. 
when  baked  ;  1  lb.  5  oz.  when  roasted.  This  is  caused  by  the  evaporation 
of  the  water  and  the  melting  of  the  fat  into  dripping. 

In  boiling  there  is  less  waste  if  the  meat  be  plunged  into  boiling 
water — not  boiled  in  cold  water,  when  a  greater  loss  will  take  place, 
by  the  unconflned  juices  slowly  passing  into  the  water,  which  thus  be- 
comes stock  or  pot  liquor.  The  reason  is,  that  the  heat  contracts  the 
outer  surfaces,  and  coagulates  the  albumen  in  the  meat  juice ;  thus  pre- 
venting the  escape  of  the  juices  into  the  water. 

Meat  contains  in  a  liquid  form  in  its  juices,  ALBUMEN — the  white 
of  egg — exactly  as  it  is  in  an  egg  before  it  is  boiled.  This  albumen 
surrounds  the  fibres ;  its  use  in  preparing  meat  for  food  is  to  pre- 
serve the  fibres  from  contracting  and  hardening.  This  it  does  by  coagu- 
lating, or  thickening,  as  soon  as  sufficiently  heated,  as  white  of  egg 
does,  and  thus  covering  and  preserving  the  fibres  from  hardening  under 
the  heat.  The  more  albumen  there  is  in  meat,  therefore,  the  tenderer  it 
is.  Now  all  young  animals  have  more  albumen  in  the  juices  than  old 
ones,  therefore  their  flesh  is  more  tender  ;  but,  in  consequence,  they  give 
less  gravy,  and  from  the  quantity  of  coagulated  albumen  in  their  meat  it 
is  white. 

Beef  and  mutton  are  brown  and  juicy,  because  they  have  less  albumen 
than  veal  and  lamb. 

K   2 


i3: 


Beef. 


Gelatine  is  the  glutinous  matter  in  the  bones  of  animals  ;  it  exists  also 
in  a  small  degree  in  the  flesh.  But  two  ounces  of  bone  contain  as  much 
gelatine  as  there  is  in  one  pound  of  meat.  Powdered  bone  can  be  dis- 
solved completely  into  gelatine. 


An  Ox  is  divided  by  the  butcher  into  the  following  joints  : — London  style. 


I. 

Sirloin. 

7- 

Thick  flank. 

13.    Shoulder,  or  leg-of- 

2. 

Top,  or  aitch-bone. 

8. 

Thin  flank. 

mutton  piece. 

3- 

Rump. 

9. 

Leg. 

14.   Brisket.      15.   Clod. 

4- 

Buttock,  or  round. 

io. 

Fore-rib  (5  ribs). 

16.   Sticking. 

S- 

Mouse  buttock. 

ii. 

Middle  rib  (4  ribs). 

17.   Shin. 

(>. 

Veiny  piece. 

12. 

Chuck  rib  (3  ribs). 

18.   Cheeks  or  Head. 

Osmazome  is  the  flavouring  matter  of  meat.  The  flesh  of  old  animals 
has  most  of  it.  Under  the  influence  of  dry  heat  osmazome  acquires 
higher  properties  and  gives  a  finer  flavour. 

Meat  is  under-dressed  when  it  has  only  been  sufficiently  heated  to 


Beef. 


133 


coagulate  the  albumen,  but  not  to  coagulate  the  colouring  matter  of  the 
blood.  It  is  perfectly  dressed  when  it  has  been  heated  throughout  to  a 
temperature  sufficient  to  coagulate  the  colouring  matter  of  the  blood. 

It  is  too  much  or  over-dressed  when  the  heat  has  lasted  long  enough 
to  harden  the  fibre. 

A  quick  heat  in  roasting  causes  the  fibres  of  the  meat  to  contract 
and  close  up  the  pores  ;  it  coagulates  the  albumen  (as  boiling  water  will) 
which  at  once  stops  up  the  pores  and  retains  the  whole  internal  juice. 
Then  the  cooking  is  carried  on  by  the  agency  of  the  natural  moisture  of 
the  flesh.  Converted  into  vapour  by  heat,  a  kind  of  steaming  takes 
place  within  the  piece  of  meat,  so  that,  whether  in  the  oven,  on  the  spit, 
or  in  the  midst  of  boiling  water,  it  is  in  reality,  when  skilfully  done,  cooked 
by  its  own  steam. 

Meat  should  therefore  be  cooked  by  a  quick  strong  fire,  and  brought 
near  it  early,  if  it  is  liked  with  the  gravy  in  it  ;  slower  cooking  makes  it 
less  full  of  red  gravy,  but,  if  well  managed,  the  juices  can  be  retained  fully 
as  well. 

An  ox  should  be  five  or  six  years  old  before  it  is  killed  ;  it  is  then  in 
its  prime  ;  the  fat  should  be  white  (yellow  fat  is  not  good),  and  the  suet 
firm  and  white  ;  the  lean,  as  we  have  said  before,  should  be  marbled  with 
fat — otherwise,in  cooking,  when  the  water  evaporates  there  will  remain  a  dry 
tough  piece  of  meat.  Heifer  beef  is  paler  than  ox  beef  and  closer  grained, 
the  fat  whiter,  and  bones  smaller.  Bull  beef  is  of  a  dark  purply  red 
colour,  coarse-grained  ;  has  little  fat,  and  a  strong  meaty  smell. 


Joints  for  roasting. 
Ribs. 
Sirloin. 

Chump  of  rump. 
Mouse  buttock. 
Topside. 
Fillet  of  sirloin. 
Tongue,  fresh. 
Heart. 

Joints  for  salting. 
Round. 
Aitch-bone. 
Silver-side. 
Brisket. 
Tongue. 

Joints  for  frying  or  broiling. 

Rump-steak. 


Beef-steak  (well  beaten). 
Liver. 

Joints  for  stewing. 
Beef-steak. 
Topside. 

Brisket  and  inferior  portions. 
Liver. 
Ox  tail. 

Joints  for  puddings  and  pies. 
Beef  steak,  or 
Fillet 

For  soup  and 'gravy. 
Shin. 

Cheeks,  or  any  inferior  parts. 
Ox  tail. 


A  rump-  or  beef-steak  should  never  be  hung  up  after  it  is  cut  off  for 
use  ;  the  air  dries  all  the  juice  out  of  it,  and  it  will  grow  harder,  not 
tenderer.  Beating  it  well  with  a  rolling-pin  is  the  best  means  to  make  it 
tender  when  it  is  once  cut  out  of  the  animal,  but  the  flesh  from  which  it 
is  cut  should  hang  to  grow  tender  in  the  whole  joint. 


134 


Salting  of  Beef. —  Veal, 


Salting  of  Beef. 

Beef  is  salted  either  by  having  salt  rubbed  into  it,  or  by  being 
immersed  in  brine.  Brine  is  strong  enough  for  pickling  when  it  will 
support  an  egg  on  it.  Salt  has  the  effect  of  contracting  the  fibres  of  meat, 
and  drawing  out  the  juice  from  the  pores.  You  will  see  this  by  sprinkling 
dry  salt  on  fresh  lean  meat ;  it  will  draw  out  the  juice  which  will  be  con^ 
verted  (by  being  dissolved  by  it)  into  fluid  brine.  As  much  as  one-third 
of  the  juice  of  the  meat  is  forced  out  by  the  contraction  of  the  fibres  when  a 
great  deal  of  salt  is  used  ;  the  salt  takes  its  place.  The  salt  closes  the  pores 
by  contracting  the  fibres,  and  thus  prevents  the  entrance  of  the  atmospheric 
air,  which  decays  meat.  For  this  reason,  salted  meat  can  be  kept  longer 
than  fresh.  But  though  preserved  by  salt,  meat  is  robbed  by  it  of  much 
of  its  nutritive  quality — the  juice  drawn  out  by  the 
salt  contains  albumen,  kreatin  (the  substance  already 
described),  phosphoric  acid  and  potash.  Salt  meat 
will  not  therefore  nourish  us  as  fresh  meat  does,  and, 
if  long  fed  upon,  injures  the  health ;  and  unless 
vegetables  or  lime-juice  are  taken  with  it,  will  cause 
the  terrible  complaint  called  scurvy. 

Fat  meat  keeps  longer 
when  salted,  if  the  fat  be 
hard. 

VEAL. 

Constituent  parts  in  I  lb. 


Oz. 

Grs. 

Water  .... 

IO 

o 

Fat       .     .     .     . 

2 

281 

Gelatine    .     .     . 

I 

82 

Fibrin  and  albu- 

men      .     .     . 

I 

199 

Mineral  matter  . 

O 

312 

Veal  even  when  it  is  the 
flesh  of  a  fatted  calf  is  the 
most  deficient  of  all  meats 
in  fat.  It  should  be  small, 
of  a  pinky  white,  and  the 
kidney  should  be  well 
covered  with  fat.  The  calf 
should  not  be  killed  after 
it  is  eight  or  ten  weeks  old, 
or  the  meat  will  be  coarse. 
Large  coarse  veal  is  cheaper 
than  the  more  delicate  kind. 
The  flesh  should  be  closely 
grained  and  dry  ;  if  it  is 
moist  and  clammy  it  is 
approaching  decomposition, 
and  is  not  fit  for  cooking. 


A  calf  is  cut  into  the  following  joints 


I, 

Loin,  best  end. 

7- 

Neck,  scrag  end. 

2. 

Loin,  chump  end. 

8. 

Bladebone. 

Fillet. 

Q. 

Breast,  best  end. 

4- 

Hind  knuckle. 

IO. 

Breast,  brisket  end. 

5- 

Fore  knuckle. 

II. 

Head, 

6. 

Neck,  best  end. 

Mutton.  — Lamb. 


*35 


Pieces  for  Roasting. 

,        Head. 

Fillet. 

Tongue  and  brains. 

Breast,  best  end. 

Loin  and  brisket,  best  and  scrag 

For  Frying. 

ends. 

Cutlets  from  shoulder,  etc. 

Neck,  best  end. 

Liver. 

Heart. 

For  Staving. 

Sweetbread. 

Breast,  brisket  end. 

For  Pic. 

Neck,  scrag  and  best  end. 

Inferior  parts. 

Sweetbread. 
Feet. 

For  Boiling, 

For  Soup. 

Knuckle. 

Inferior  parts,  as  scrag,  knuckle, 

Part  of  shoulder. 

etc.  etc. 

MUT 

TON. 

Constituent  ft 

arts  in  1  lb. : 

Oz. 

Grs. 

Oz.  Grs. 

Water       ....       7 

16 

Fibrin  and  albumen       0     385 

Fat 6 

176 

Mineral  matter      .       0    245 

Gelatine    ....       1 

52 

A  sheep  ought  to  be  kept  four  years  before  killing ;  and  home-fed 
mutton  often  attains  this  age,  but  butcher's  mutton  is  rarely  as  old  or 
as  good  as  this.  The  darker  the  mutton  is  the  better,  it  is  a  sign  of  a 
mature  animal.     The  fat  should  be  abundant. 


Parts  to  Roast. 


Leg. 


Saddle.         Haunch. 
Chump  end  of  loin. 
Best  end  of  loin. 
Best  end  of  neck. 
Shoulder.  Breast. 

Chine.  Head.         Heart. 

Salted. 
Leer  for  ham. 


Boiled. 
Leg. 
Neck,  scrag  end,  and  middle. 

Fried  and  Broiled. 

Chops  and  cutlets  from  loin  and 

neck. 
Cutlet  from  leg. 

Stewed. 
Scrag  of  neck  with  rice. 


Water  . 
Fat  .     . 

Gelatine 


LAMB. 

Constituent  ft  arts  in  lib.  : 


Oz.  Grs. 

Oz.  Gis. 

8      44 

Fibrin  and  albumen 

0    360 

5     263 

Mineral  matter  .     . 

0    244 

0    400 

Lamb  should  be  small.     House  lamb  can  be  had  at  Christmas.     Grass 
lamb  is  in  season  from  April  to  September.     The  flesh  should  be  pale- 


136 


Venison. 


coloured  red  and  fat.     The  leg  of  house  lamb  is  sometimes  boiled  at 
Christmas  and  served  with  white  sauce. 
Lamb  is  very  expensive. 


A  sheep  is  thus  divided  : —       Lamb  is  thus  divided  :— 

j.  Leg.     2.  Chump  end  of  1.   Leg. 

Loin.     3.  Best  end  of  Loin.  2.  Loin. 

4.  Neck,  best  end.    5.  Neck,  3.   Shoulder. 

scrag    end.       6.     Shoulder.  4.  Breast. 

7.  Breast.     A  saddle  is  the  5.  Ribs, 

two  loins  undivided.    A  chine  3,4,    5,    together, 
is  the  two  sides  of  the  neck  Fore-quarter. 

undivided. 


A   deer  is  cut  up  in 
four  portions,  thus  : — 

1.  Haunch. 

2.  Neck. 

3.  Shoulder. 

4.  Breast. 


VENISON. 

Venison  should  be  fat.     If  the  cleft  of  the  haunch  is  smooth  and  close 
the  deer  was  young. 

Roasting. — Haunch,  Neck  Breast.  Pasties, — Shoulder, 

Buck  venison  is  in  season  in  the  middle  of  the  summer.     Doe  venison 
in  the  winter. 


Pork. — How  to  Choose  Meat 


137 


Water  . 
Fat  .  . 
Gelatine 


PORK. 

Constituent  parts  in 
Oz.  Grs. 

6      69 

8        o 


lb. 


$85 


Fibrin  and  albumen 
Mineral  matter 


Oz. 
o 
o 


Grs. 

315 
105 


Pork  should  never  be  bought  of  cheap  butchers  or  strangers,  as  thf 
pig    is    liable    to    horrible    diseases  —  smallpox, 
trichinae,  or  little  worms,  measles,   scarlet  fever, 
etc.     Pork  is  best   purchased  from  a  dairy,    the 
owner  of  which  is  known  to  the  purchaser. 

The  fat  should  be  firm,  and  the  lean  white  and 
finely  grained,  the  skin  or  rind  thin  and  smooth. 
If  the  flesh  feels  clammy  the  pork  is  bad.  If 
the  fat  has  kernels  in  it  the  pig  has  been  measly. 
Very  red  flesh  signifies  scarlet  fever. 

Pork  is  the  driest  and  fattest  of  meat. 


Parts  roasted. 
Spare  rib.         Loin.         Leg. 


Salted  and  boiled. 


Belly. 
Chap. 


Hand. 
Pettitoes. 


Leg. 
Head. 


Head. 


Chine. 
Tongue. 


Fried. 
Chops  from  loin.         Pig's  fry.  Sausages. 

Bacon*  and  hams  are  salted  and  smoked  pig's 
flesh.  The  pig's  blood  is  used  in  black  and  white 
puddings. 

HOW  TO  CHOOSE  MEAT. 

Dr.  Letheby  gives  the  following  admirable  di- 
rections for  choosing  meat  of  all  kinds. 

"  Good  meat  has  the  following  characteris- 
tics :— 

"  1.  It  is  neither  of  a  pale  pink  colour,  nor  of 
a  deep  purple  tint,  for  the  former  is  a  sign  of 
disease,  and  the  latter  indicates  that  the  animal 
has  not  been  slaughtered,  but  has  died  with  the 
blood  in  it,  or  has  suffered  from  acute  fever. 

"  2.  It  has  a  marbled  appearance  from  the 
ramifications  of  little  veins  of  fat  among  the 
muscles. 


A  pig  is  thus  divided  : — 

1.  Spare  rib. 

2.  Hand. 

3.  Belly. 

4.  Fore  loin. 

5.  Hind  loin. 

6.  Leg. 

The  Chine  is  the  neck 
whole. 


*  Bacon  suffers  less  waste  than  fresh  meat  in  cooking,  and  goes  further  as  food. 
Good  bacon  should  not  lose  more  than  from   to  to  15  per  cent,  in  cooking.     It 


Cooking  and  Preserving  Meat. 


"3.  It  should  be  firm  and  elastic  to  the  touch,  and  scarcely  moisten 
the  fingers— bad  meat  being  wet  and  sodden  and  flabby,  with  the  fat 
looking  like  jelly  or  wet  parchment. 

"  4.  It  should  have  little  or  no  odour,  and  the  odour  should  not  be 
disagreeable  ;  diseased  meat  has  a  sickly  cadaverous  smell,  and  some- 
times a  smell  of  physic. 

"5.  It  should  not  shrink  or  waste  much  in  cooking. 

"6.  It  should  not  run  to  water  nor  become  very  wet  on  standing  for  a 
day  or  two,  but  should  on  the  contrary  dry  upon  the  surface. 

"  7.  When  dried  at  a  temperature  of  21 2°  or  thereabouts,  it  should  not 
lose  more  than  70  to  74  per  cent,  of  its  weight,  whereas  bad  meat  will  often 
lose  as  much  as  80  per  cent." — Dr.  Letheby's  Lectures  on  Food,  p.  235. 

The  parasitic  animals  which  infest  butcher's  meat  are  destroyed  if  the 
meat  be  thoroughly  dressed  and  raised,  during  the  cooking,  to  a  tempera- 
ture of  212°. 

Roast  meat  should  be  frequently  basted  with  its  own  dripping.  Meat 
can  scarcely  be  basted  too  much. 

Boiled  meat  if  cooked  in  cold  water — i.e.,  put  into  cold  water  and  raised 
gradually  to  boiling  point — imparts  its  juices  to  the  water,  and  supplies 
both  soup  and  meat.  If  plunged  into  boiling  water  to  shut  in  the  juices 
the  pot  liquor  will  be  worthless.  Stewing  is  very  slow  boiling.  Broiling 
is  roasting  over  the  fire  instead  of  in  front  of  it.  Frying  is  boiling  in 
boiling  fat. 

For  every  mode  of  cooking  animal  food,  see  Warne's  "  Model  Cookery." 

We  subjoin,  however,  a  few  words  from  Dr.  Lyon  Playfair  on  the 
science  of  boiling. 

"  In  boiling  meat  for  soup,  cold  water  should  be  used  at  first,  so  as  to 
extract  as  much  of  the  nutrient  juices  as  possible,  and  the  heat  be  raised 
gradually.  But  if  the  meat  be  wanted  in  a  boiled  state  for  itself,  and  not 
for  its  soup,  then  it  should  be  plunged  at  once  into  boiling  water,  and 
kept  boiling  for  a  few  minutes,  so  that  all  the  outer  albumen  may  be 
coagulated,  in  order  to  imprison  the  sapid  and  nutritive  juices  ;  then  cold 
water  should  be  added  till  the  temperature  is  reduced  to  1600,  at  which  it 
should  be  kept  till  the  cooking  is  completed,  because  that  heat  is  necessary 
for  the  coagulation  of  the  colouring  matter  of  the  blood.  In  all  cases  no 
more  heat  than  is  sufficient  should  be  employed  in  cooking.  Thus,  in 
making  soup,  all  the  fire  in  the  world  will  not  make  the  water  hotter  than 
its  boiling  temperature,  at  which  point  it  can  be  retained  by  a  very 
moderate  expenditure  of  fuel.  Violent  ebullition,  such  as  we  see  cooks 
often  practise,  while  it  does  no  good,  does  much  harm,  not  only  by  wasting 
coal,  but  also  by  carrying  off  in  the  steam  much  of  the  aromatic  and  vola- 
tile ingredients  of  the  food." 

Meat  should  be  wiped  with  a  dry  clean  cloth  as  soon  as  it  comes  from 
the  butcher's  ;  fly-blows,  if  found  in  it,  cut  out,  and  in  loins  the  long  pipe 
that  runs  by  the  bone  should  be  taken  out,  as  it  soon  taints  ;  the  kernels 
also  should  be  removed  from  beef.     Never  receive  bruised  joints. 

Meat  will  keep  good  for  a  long  time  in  cold  weather,  and  if  frozen 
through  may  be  kept  for  months.     Frozen  meat  must  be  thawed  before  it 

contains  a  great  deal  of  carbonaceous  matter,  and  should  therefore  be  used  with 
eggs,  veal,  beans,  and  peas,  which  are  rich  in  nitrogen, 


Joints  for  Family  use. — Lard.  139 

is  cooked  by  plunging  it  into  cold  water,  or  placing  it  before  the  fire 
before  setting  it  down  to  roast.  It  will  never  be  dressed  through  if  this 
precaution  is  not  taken,  not  even  when  twice  cooked. 

Pepper  is  a  preventative  of  decay  in  a  degree j  it  is  well,  therefore,  to 
pepper  hung  joints. 

Powdered  charcoal  is  still  more  remarkable  in  its  effect.  It  will  not 
only  keep  the  meat  over  which  it  is  sprinkled  good,  but  it  will  remove  the 
taint  from  already  decayed  flesh. 

A  piece  of  charcoal  boiled  in  the  water  with  "  high  "  meat  or  fowls,  will 
render  it  or  them  quite  sweet.  A  piece  of  charcoal,  or  powdered  char- 
coal, should  be  kept  in  every  larder.  Hams,  after  being  smoked,  may  be 
kept  any  length  of  time  packed  in  powdered  charcoal. 

Charcoal  powder  also  darkens  and  improves  the  flowers  of  the  dahlia, 
rose,  etc.,  etc. 

The  taint  of  meat  may  also  be  removed  by  washing  it  with  pyrolig* 
ncous  acid  {i.e.,  vinegar  distilled  from  wood),  which  like  charcoal  com- 
bines with  the  putrescent  particles  and  neutralizes  their  offensive  smell 
and  taste. 

Tough  meat  may  be  made  more  tender  by  soaking  it  in  vinegar  and 
water.  Three  quarts  of  water  mixed  with  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  will  suffice  to  steep  a  piece  of  beef  weighing  ten  pounds.  Soak 
it  for  six  or  seven  hours. 

Most  Profitable  Joints  for  Family  use. 

The  leg  of  mutton  is  the  most  profitable  joint,  containing  most  solid 
meat.  The  neck  is  an  extravagant  joint,  half  the  weight  consisting  of 
bone  and  fat.  The  shoulder  has  also  much  waste  in  bone.  The  breast 
does  well  for  kitchen  dinner,  nicely  stuffed  ;  it  is  much  cheaper  than  the 
other  joints. 

Sirloins  and  ribs  of  beef  are  very  extravagant  joints,  from  the  weight 
of  bone.  The  roasting  side  of  the  round  part  of  the  buttock,  and  the  part 
called  "the  topside,"  are  the  most  profitable  for  family  eating.  The 
mouse  buttock  is  used  for  stewing  ;  shin  is  used  for  soup  or  stewing. 

The  usual  quantity  of  butcher's  meat  consumed  in  a  family  is  on  an 
average  three-quarters  of  a  pound  a  day  for  each  person  ;  but  when  the 
family  consists  of  ladies  and  children,  half  a  pound  per  day  is  about  the 
quantity  consumed  one  with  another,  independent  of  hams,  bacon,  pou  ltry, 
fish  and  game. 

Lard. 

Lard  is  the  fat  of  the  pig  melted  down.  The  best  is  made  from  the 
kidney  fat  melted  and  poured  into  bladders.  In  foreign  lard  kidney  and 
surface  fat  are  mixed  and  melted  down.  When  pure,  lard  has  scarcely  any 
taste  or  smell :  it  should  be  of  a  pure  white,  not  too  opaque,  firm  but  not 
hard.  If  when  it  is  melted  it  sputters,  it  is  a  sign  that  water  has  been  added 
to  it  when  prepared.  No  deposit  remains  after  it  has  been  a  second  time 
melted.  Any  opaque  bodies  which  float  in  it,  or  sink  to  the  bottom,  are  adul- 
terations of  flour  or  starch.  Chemical  tests  only  will  reveal  carbonate 
of  soda  or  potash  and  salt,  which  are  often  mixed  with  it.  Lard  is 
now  sold  at  \s.  per  pound.  It  is  use4  for  making  pie-crusts  ancj 
frying,  etc. 


14° 


Miscellaneous  Receipts. 


Dripping  is  sold  in  London  for  yd.  or  %\d.  per  pound.  In  the  house 
it  should  be  saved  and  nicely  clarified,  and  will  be  found  most  useful  for 
plain  meat-pie  crust,  family  cakes,  frying,  basting,  etc. 


Miscellaneous  Receipts. 


To  keep  Beef. 

If  you  wish  to  keep  beef  two  or 
three  days  in  hot  weather,  do  not 
salt  it,  but  dry  it  well  in  a  clean 
cloth,  rub  ground  pepper  plentifully 
over  every  part  of  it  first,  then  flour 
it  well  and  hang  it  in  a  cool,  dry 
place  where  the  air  will  come  to  it ; 
be  sure  always  that  there  is  no  damp 
place  about  it  ;  if  you  find  one,  dry 
it  with  a  cloth  ;  but  pepper  will  se- 
cure it  from  this. 

To  keep  Game  from  Tainting-. 

Game  may  often  be  made  fit  for 
eating  when  apparently  spoiled,  by 
nicely  cleaning  it  and  washing  with 
vinegar  and  water. 

If  you  have  birds  which  you  fear 
will  not  keep,  pick  them  and  empty 
them,  rinse  them  and  rub  them  over 
with  salt  outside  and  in  ;  have  in 
readiness  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
and  plunge  them  in  one  by  one, 
holding  them  by  the  legs  and  draw- 
ing them  up  and  down,  so  that  the 
water  may  pass  through  them.  Let 
them  remain  in  for  five  or  six 
minutes,  then  hang  them  in  a  cool 
place.  When  perfectly  drained,  rub 
them  outside  and  in  with  black 
pepper.  The  most  delicate  birds 
may  be  preserved  in  this  way.  Tho- 
roughly wash  them  before  roasting 
or  otherwise  cooking  them.  Pieces 
of  charcoal  put  about  meat  or  birds 
will  preserve  them  from  taint,  and 
restore  what  is  spoiling. 

Poultry  or  birds  should  be  drawn 
and  wiped  dry,  and  a  bit  of  char- 
coal put  into  the  body  and  over  the 
outside  of  each  ;  it  will  keep  them 
nicely  ;  or  they  may  be  kept  in  a  pot 


lined  with  zinc,  with  bits  of  ice  be- 
tween them.  Pepper  keeps  them 
from  flies. 

To  Pickle  Meat  in  One  Day. 

Admiral  Ross's  Receipt. 

Get  a  tub  nearly  full  of  rain  or 
river  water,  and  put  two  pieces  of 
thin  wood  across  it,  and  set  the  beef 
on  them,  distant  about  an  inch  from 
the  water.  Heap  as  much  salt  as 
will  stand  on  your  beef,  and  let  it 
remain  twenty-four  hours  ;  then  take 
the  meat  off  and  boil  it,  and  you  will 
find  it  as  salt  as  if  it  had  been  in 
pickle  for  six  weeks,  the  water  hav- 
ing drawn  the  salt  completely  through 
the  beef. 

To  Preserve  large  Game  of  all  kinds. 

Well  clean  the  animal  inside  ; 
drain  the  blood,  and  wipe  it  out 
with  a  damp  cloth.  Put  it  in  a 
packing  case,  and  cover  the  whole 
body  with  a  thick  layer  of  oats  well 
pressed  down.  Fasten  it  down  so 
as  to  exclude  the  air,  and  it  will  keep 
for  three  weeks. 

Birds  may  be  preserved  for  a  fort- 
night in  the  same  way. 

Take  care  to  keep  out  the  air,  and 
keep  the  case  in  a  shady  place  or  on 
the  north  side  of  a  wall. 

Another  Mode. 

Partly  sink  a  wine-cask  in  the 
ground,  fasten  sticks  across  the  top 
and  hang  the  game  down  inside  it. 
Cover  the  top  of  the  cask  so  as  to 
quite  exclude  the  outer  air.  Of 
course  the  game  must  be  first 
cleaned  out  and  well  dried  as  above. 


1.     Sheeps  Tails  fried, .        3.    Lambs  Sweetire/id.         6.   Marrow  Bones. 
'.' .    Boulette  de  tow  de)       ■/-.    Skeeps  Ton/pies.  7.    Anchovy  Cutlet?. 

n>//// .  \       J.    Cutlets  a  hi  Milan/use. 


0}< 


Miscellaneous  Receipts. 


141 


Cutlets  a  la  Milanaise — an  Entree. 
Cut  a  pound  and  a  half  of  veal 
into  small  cutlets,  trim  them  neatly 
and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with 
two  shallots,  a  stem  of  garlic,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  When 
they  have  become  nicely  browned 
draw  the  pan  to  the  side  of  the  fire, 
and  let  the  cutlets  stew  slowly  for 
half  an  hour,  then  take  them  out  of 
the  pan  and  add  to  the  butter  and 
gravy  a  spoonful  of  tomato  sauce. 
Let  it  simmer  until  reduced,  then 
put  in  the  cutlets,  and  when  they 
have  stewed  for  about  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  serve  them  on  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  maccaroni 
previously  stewed. 

Sheeps'  Tails  Fried. 
Time,  1  hour  and  40  minutes. 

Wash  six  sheeps'  tails  ;  simmer 
them  very  slowly  till  tender.  Egg, 
bread-crumb,  and  fry  them  a  nice 
brown.  Serve  cold  for  breakfast  or 
luncheon,  placing  them  in  alternate 
cross  bars  as  in  plate. 

Boulettes  au  foie  de  Veau. 
Time,  20  minutes. 

Mince  two  pounds  of  calf's  liver 
very  fine  with  a  few  slices  of  ham  or 
bacon.  Chop  some  sweet  herbs  and 
mix  with  it ;  add  a  little  pepper,  salt, 
nutmeg,  the  yolks  of  two  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  a  cupful  of  cream.  Warm 
over  a  slow  fire  till  the  mixture  is 
firm.  Then  take  it  out  and  make  it 
into  balls  (well  covering  your  hands 
with  flour);  brush  the  balls  over 
with  white  of  egg  well  beaten,  roll 
them  well  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry 
them  in  boiling  butter.  When  they 
are  done  drain  them  on  a  sieve  in 
front  of  the  fire,  and  serve  them  with 
piquante  sauce  poured  over  them. 

Indian  Kebobs. 
Cut  some  apples  and  onions  into 
slices,  and  some  uncooked  veal  in  .  ( 


round  slices  of  a  little  larger  size ; 
have  ready  some  small  skewers 
(silver  if  you  have  them),  and  put 
on  each  skewer  alternate  slices  of 
meat,  apples,  and  onions  alternately. 
Sprinkle  well  over  them  some  currie 
powder,  and  fry  them  with  sufficient 
butter  to  cover  them.  Send  them  to 
table  on  the  skewers. 

Larded  Lambs'  Sweetbreads. 
Time,  half-hour. 

Parboil  three  or  four  lambs'  sweet- 
breads ;  let  them  get  cold,  then  lard 
them  down  the  middle  with  strips  of 
fat  bacon,  and  on  each  side  with 
strips  of  lemon-peel,  and  beyond 
again  with  strips  of  pickled  cucumber. 
Then  stew  them  gently  for  twenty 
minutes  in  a  pint  of  veal  gravy 
thickened  with  a  little  flour ;  add  a 
small  pinch  of  Cayenne  pepper,  a 
squeeze  or  two  of  lemon-juice,  and 
a  little  mushroom  powder.  When 
done  pour  it  round  the  sweetbreads 
and  serve. 

Sheeps1  Tongues  en  Papillotes. 

Time,  12  or  15  minutes  to  fry. 

Wash  and  scald  the  tongues,  and 
stew  them  in  good  stock  till  tender  ; 
drain  them  on  a  sieve,  then  take  a 
buttered  or  oiled  paper,  line  it  with 
a  seasoning  of  sweet  herbs  and 
mushrooms  chopped  fine  and  mixed 
with  a  little  piece  of  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Fry  them  and  serve  them 
in  the  papers  garnished  with  parsley. 

Boiled  Marrow  Bones. 
Served  on  a  napkin  or  on  toast. 

Saw  the  bones  any  size  you  may 
prefer,  cover  the  ends  with  a  paste 
of  flour  and  water,  tie  a  cloth  over 
them  and  place  them  in  a  small 
stewpan  with  sufficient  boiling  water 
to  cover  them.  When  sufficiently 
boiled,  serve  them  upright  on  a 
napkin,  as  in  plate. 


i  4  2  iw>/. — Game. 

POULTRY   AS    FOOD 
Fowl. 

Constituent  parts  in  I  lb. 
Oz.    Grs. 


Water 12     107 

Gelatine 1       52 

Fibrin 1     322 


Oz.  Grs. 
Albumen    .     .     »    .     o    209 
Mineral  matter    .     .     o     174 


.    Fowls  contain  less  fat  than  butcher's  meat,   except  the  capon,  the 
ortolan,  and  the  livers  of  Strasbourg  geese. 

"  Poultry  and  the  white  meat  of  rabbits,"  says  Dr.  Letheby,  "  are  not 
of  themselves  very  nourishing  ;  they  contain  too  much  nitrogenous  matter 
and  too  little  fat.  In  the  case  of  aquatic  birds,  as  the  goose  and  duck,  the 
fat  is  more  abundant,  but  it  contains  certain  flavouring  matters  which  are 
not  easy  of  digestion.  The  darker  flesh  of  game  is  also  somewhat  in- 
digestible, and  requires  management  in  its  culinary  treatment." 

To  Choose  Poultry. 

The  cock  is  young  when  it  has  a  smooth  leg  and  short  spur ;  when  fresh 
the  vent  is  closed  and  dark.  Hens  when  young  have  smooth  legs,  and  the 
vent  is  closed  and  firm.     Black  legged  fowls  are  used  for  roasting  only. 

In  young  geese  the  feet  and  bill  will  be  yellow  and  free  from  hair ; 
when  fresh  the  feet  are  pliable. 

Ducks  may  be  selected  by  the  same  rule. 

Pigeons  when  fresh  have  supple  feet  and  vent  firm.  If  discoloured  all 
birds  are  stale. 

Plovers  may  be  chosen  by  the  same  rule. 

The  Turkey. 

Turkeys  are  found  in  a  wild  state  from  Canada  to  the  Isthmus  of 
Panama,  and  far  from  being  improved  by  being  made  a  domestic  fowl, 
they  degenerate  exceedingly. 

The  wild  bird  is  at  least  three  feet  high,  and  weighs  from  twenty  to 
sixty  pounds.     The  most  beautiful  species  are  the  Ocellated  Turkeys. 

The  common  turkey  is  a  domestic  fowl  in  England.  Norfolk  turkeys 
are  thought  the  best. 

When  young,  the  turkey  has  a  smooth  black  leg  with  a  short  spur,  the 
eyes  are  bright  and  full,  and  the  feet  are  supple  when  the  bird  is  fresh. 
The  absence  of  these  signs  indicates  age  or  staleness.  The  legs  of  an  old 
hen  turkey  are  rough  and  the  vent  is  close  and  firm.    The  cock  bird  is  best 


Game. 

Grouse. — This  group  of  birds  contains  the  grouse  proper  and  par- 
tridge. 

Grouse  are  in  season  in  August,  and  are  expensive  birds.  They  are 
found  chiefly  in  the  North  of  England  and  Scotland,  amongst  the  heather 
and  morasses.     Young  grouse  are  known  by  a  short  round  spur. 


Rabbits,  Hares,  etc.  *43 


Partridges  are  natives  of  the  Old  World.  They  are  very  prolific, 
laying  from  twelve  to  twenty  eggs.  Ants,  larvae,  and  the  eggs  of  insects 
are  their  chief  food.  Yellow  legs  and  a  dark  bill  are  signs  by  which  a 
young  partridge  may  be  known  ;  a  rigid  vent  shows  when  they  are  fresh. 

The  native  country  of  the  Pheasant  is  the  mountainous  districts  of 
Asia,  but  it  has  been  naturalized  in  England.  Our  pheasant  is  sup- 
posed to  have  been  brought  from  the  banks  of  the  river  Phasis  in  the 
ancient  Colchis  on  the  Eastern  shore  of  the  Black  Sea,  where  it  is  still 
abundant.  Its  scientific  name  is  Phasianus  Colchicus.  The  young 
pheasant  may  be  known  by  a  short  or  round  spur  ;  in  old  birds  it  is  long 
and  pointless. 

Snipes,  Quails,  and  Ortolans  may  be  known  as  young  birds  by  the 
short  or  round  spurs. 

Ptarmigan  are  imported  in  great  quantities  from  Norway,  preserved  in  ice. 

Woodcocks  are  in  season  in  November.  Young  birds  may  be  known 
by  a  round  or  short  spur  ;  when  old  the  spur  is  pointed. 

Wild  Ducks,  Widgeon,  and  Teal  are  seasonable  and  often  cheap  in 
winter,  but  Teal  are  not  profitable  even  then,  as  they  have  very  little  on 
them. 

Quails,  Landrails,  Plovers,  and  Larks  are  delicate  food. 

Rabbits  and  Hares. 

Rabbits  are  a  very  useful  article  of  food,  and  are  not  dear,  varying 
from  is.  2d.  to  is.  6d.  each.  Ostend  rabbits,  the  skinned  animals  sold  at 
the  grocers  or  porkbutchers,  are  tame  Belgian  rabbits  kept  for  their 
skins.  When  these  are  sold  the  bodies  are  sent  to  England  and  sold  at 
M.  per  lb. 

Hares  are  much  valued  for  food.  Hare  soup  is  excellent,  and  jugged 
hare  is'also  good.  Old  hares  suffice  for  both.  A  hare  for  roasting  should 
be  very  young  ;  a  leveret  is  best.  The  signs  of  youth  in  a  hare  are  these  : 
the  cleft  in  the  lip  is  narrow,  the  body  stiff,  and  the  claws  smooth  and 
sharp.r-^Rabbits  the  same. — To  ascertain  if  a  hare  is  old  or  young,  turn 
the  claws  sideways  ;  if  they  crack  it  is  young. 

The  Squirrel. 

The  squirrel  is  a  lively  graceful  little  animal,  the  ornament  of  forest 
scenery.  It  builds  its  nest  at  the  top  of  the  loftiest  trees.  In  it  it  passes 
great  part  of  the  day,  but  comes  out  and  gambols  in  the  evening.  In  the 
summer  it  stores  food  for  the  winter.  Squirrels  are  not  eaten  in  England, 
but  in  America  they  are  considered  good  food. 

After  the  squirrels  have  been  split  and  skinned,  they  may  be  broiled, 
fried,  or  stewed  ;  they  are  best  broiled. 

The  Kangaroo. 

The  Kangaroo  is  an  animal  peculiar  to  Australia.  It  is  herbivorous 
and  remarkable  for  the  smallness  of  its  fore-feet  and  the  length  of  its  hind 
legs  and  tail,  on  which  it  sits  upright  as  on  a  tripod.  The  kangaroo  has  a 
skin  pocket  in  front  of  it  in  which  it  carries  its  young,  for  a  period  of 
tight  months  after  their  birth. 


144 


Miscellaneous  Receipts. 


The  tail  makes  excellent  soup,  and  is  used  by  emigrants  for  that  pur- 
pose. 

Miscellaneous  Receipts. 


Cuisses  de  Lapins  a  la  Maintenon. 

Bone  two  rabbit  legs,  and  stew 
them  with  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
mushrooms,  same  of  parsley,  and  a 
little  grated  bacon.  Let  them  cool 
when  done.  Cut  and  oil  some  paper 
a  little  larger  than  the  legs,  lay  on 
each  piece  a  thin  slice  of  bacon,  then 
the  leg,  then  some  of  the  seasoning, 
then  another  slice  of  bacon.  Fold 
the  paper  over,  and  warm  them  in  a 
saute-pan  in  the  oven.  Serve  on  a 
napkin  with  fried  parsley  in  the 
centre. 

Partridges  a  la  Kusse. 

Cut  the  partridges  into  pieces  and 
lay  the  pieces  in  a  stewpan  with  no 
water,  but  a  little  melted  bacon  fat. 
Put  the  pan  on  a  brisk  fire  and  give 
it  two  or  three  turns.  Pour  in  then 
a  large  wineglassful  of  brandy  and  j 
let  them  stew  for  an  hour  or  more  ; 
then  set  the  pan  by  the  side  of  the 
fire  to  continue  slowly  stewing  for 
about  half  an  hour.  Strain  the  birds 
then  from  all  the  fat,  lay  in  the 
washed-out  pan  some  mushrooms 
and  truffles,  put  in  the  pieces  and 
pour  over  them  a  good  gravy.  Warm 
over  a  moderate  fire,  thickening  the 
gravy  with  a  piece  of  butter,  and  add 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.     Serve  hot. 

Indian  Spatchcock. 

Prepare  a  freshly  killed  fowl ;  split 
it  in  halves  through  the  middle  of 
the  breast  and  back ;  pepper  and 
salt ;  rub  it  once  with  butter  ;  grease 
a  gridiron :  and  broil  it  over  a  clear 


bright  fire.  Put  a  lump  of  butter  in 
a  hot  dish  before  the  fire  ;  let  it  dis- 
solve ;  lay  the  fowl  in  it  or  on  a  round 
of  toasted  bread,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Game  Pie. 

Cut  some  thin  slices  of  venison, 
well  pepper  and  salt  them,  and  lay 
them  at  the  bottom  of  a  very  deep 
pie  dish  (which  is  put  into  a  wooden 
pie  dish  when  it  is  finished  baking) ; 
cut  up  two  partridges,  two  pigeons, 
and  a  hare,  and  lay  them  in  in  pieces ; 
add  two  mutton  kidneys,  a  teacup- 
ful  of  pickled  mushrooms,  forcemeat 
balls,  egg  balls,  and  a  good  gravy- 
made  from  the  bones  of  the  game, 
and  some  stock.  If  served  hot  send 
it  up  with  cover  on  ;  if  cold,  fill  up 
the  top  with  a  good  aspic  jelly. 

Macedoine  of  Larks. 

Time,  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

Pick  and  clean  a  dozen  and  a  half 
larks,  bone  them,  and  stuff  them  with 
the  livers,  a  little  minced  bacon,  a 
few  sweet  herbs  chopped  very  fine, 
and  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt,  and 
nutmeg  ;  put  them  into  a  dish,  pour 
in  a  little  gravy,  and  bake  them  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Boil  six  or  eight  mealy  potatoes, 
mash  them  up  with  a  little  butter, 
and  arrange  them  in  a  deep  border 
round  the  edge  of  a  dish  ;  fill  the  cen- 
tre with  carrots  and  turnips  boiled 
and  cut  into  rings,  place  the  larks 
amongst  and  on  the  vegetables  and 
three  or  four  on  the  top ;  pour  in  a 
little  gravy,  and  serve. 


145 


FISH. 


Fish  is  an  important  article  of  food.  It  is  more  rich  in  fibrin  or 
flesh-forming  matter  than  butcher's  meat  or  birds,  but  it  contains  less  fat 
and  gelatine.  Fish  frequently  contains  large  quantities  of  mineral  matter, 
principally  phosphates  of  lime,  potash  and  soda. 

The  following  table  is  from  Professor  Johnston's  "  Chemistry  of  Com- 
mon Life,"  p.  131  : — In  100  parts  of 


Skate   . 
Haddock 
Herring 
Salmon 
Eel  .     . 


Fibrin. 

•  97 

•  9^ 
.     92 

•  7S 

.     44 


Fat. 

3 
8 

8 


56  J 


When  perfectly  dried. 


"These  numbers,  of  course,  are  liable  to  variation— the  herring  espe- 
cially, being  very  much  fatter  at  some  seasons,  and  on  some  coasts,  than 
on  others.  We  see,  however,  that  the  salmon  is  justly  considered  a  rich 
fish,  since  it  contains  nearly  three  times  as  much  fat  as  the  haddock. 
The  epicure  has  also  a  substantial  reason  for  his  attachment  to  the  eel, 
since  it  contains  a  considerably  greater  weight  of  fat  than  it  does  of 
muscular  fibre." 

Fish  is  much  more  easily  digested  than  flesh,  and  consequently  food  is 
required  sooner  after  eating  it.  The  most  digestible  kinds  are  the  white 
fish,  which  have  least  fat,  and  require  to  be  fried  in  fat,  or  eaten  with 
melted-butter  or  sauces.  Of  all  fish,  the  haddock,  whiting,  and  flounder 
are  most  digestible. 

The  salmon,  herring,  and  eel  are  dressed  in  their  own  oil,  and  are  very 
nutritious. 

Fish  should  never  be  eaten  out  of  season,  as  it  is  then  very  likely  to 
disagree  with  the  system.  The  flesh  of  fish  should  not  have  a  bluish  tinge 
If  it  has  this  quality  it  is  inferior. 

Salmon. 

Constituent  parts  of  1  lb. 

Fibrin,    albumen,     and        Oz.  Grs.  Oz.  Grs. 

gelatine 2       43   Mineral  matter    ....       o     387 

Fat o     301    Water 12     143 

in  great  multitudes  in  the  Northern  seas,  from 
in  large  shoals  every  spring.  It  swims  with 
great  rapidity,  and  can  leap  a  height  of  twelve  or  fifteen  feet.  When  salmon 
arrive  at  a  spot  fit  for  spawning,  they  deposit  their  eggs  at  the  bottom  on 
the  gravel,  and  then  permit  themselves  to  be  carried  by  the  current  to  the  sea, 
where  they  go  to  acquire  strength,  and  return  again  the  following  spring. 
Young  salmon  are  born  in  the  rivers,  but  when  they  are  twelve  inches  long 
they  descend  to  the  sea  like  the  older  fish. 

This  fish  is  generally  caught  in  nets  stretched  across  the  river  ;  but  in 
Scotland  they  are  sometimes  speared  with  a  many-pronged  weapon,  called 

L 


The   salmon  is  found 
whence  it  ascends  rivers 


Oz.   Grs. 

Flesh-formers 

•     i     35o 

Fat 

.     0       14 

146  Soles. — Turbot,  etc. 

a  leister.  They  are  also  caught  with  a  rod  and  line.  They  are  caught 
when  they  ascend  the  river  to  spawn  ;  after  spawning,  they  are  very  lean, 
and  their  flesh  is  of  little  value.  Salmon  is,  therefore,  best  in  the  spring. 
It  is  a  very  rich  and  nourishing  fish.  It  should  have  a  small  head, 
very  thick  shoulders  and  a  small  tail.  The  scales  should  be  very  bright, 
the  flesh  a  rich  yellowish  pink. 

Salmon  is  sometimes  crimped ;  this  is  done  by  depriving  it  first  of 
sensation  by  a  blow  on  the  head,  and  then  scoring  it  deeply  to  the  bone. 
Hot  and  cold  boiled  it  is  excellent ;  or  pickled,  curried,  marinaded,  or 
dried.  Usual  price  early  in  spring,  is.  6d.  per  lb.,  is.  6d.,  later.  The 
rivers  of  Norway,  Scotland  and  Wales,  produce  the  finest  salmon  ; 
salmon-trout,  common  trout,  smelts  and  graylings  belong  to  this  family, 
and  are  all  excellent  fish. 

Soles,  Turbot,  etc. 

Constituent  par^ts  of  1  lb. 

Oz.   Grs. 

Water 13     374 

Mineral  matter    .     .     o     136 

The  Turbot,  Brill,  Sole,  Halibut,  Plaice,  Flounder,  Dab  and  Hake,  are 
all  of  the  same  family,  and  are  excellent  for  food.  "  Their  form  is  very  deep, 
but,  at  the  same  time,  very  thin,  and  they  are  not  constituted  to  swim  as 
other  fishes  do,  with  their  backs  uppermost ;  but,  lying  on  one  side.  They 
reside  wholly  at  the  bottom,  shuffling  along  by  waving  their  flattened 
bodies,  fringed  with  the  dorsal  and  anal  fins,  and  as  they  are  somewhat 
sluggish  in  their  movements,  they  need  concealment  from  their  enemies. 
This  is  afforded  them  by  the  side  which  is  uppermost  being  of  a  dusky 
brown  hue,  resembling  the  mud  on  which  they  rest ;  and  so  conscious  are 
they  where  their  safety  lies,  that  they  do  not  seek  to  escape  by  flight  when 
alarmed,  but  sink  to  the  bottom  and  lie  perfectly  motionless."  If  the  eyes 
were  placed,  as  in  all  other  creatures,  one  on  each  side  of  the  head,  it  is 
plain  that  flat-fish,  habitually  grovelling,  would  be  deprived  of  the  sight  of 
one  eye,  which  being  always  buried  in  the  mud  would  be  quite  useless. 
To  meet  this  difficulty,  the  skeleton  is  distorted,  taking,  near  the  head,  a 
sudden  twist  to  one  side,  and  thus  the  two  eyes  are  placed  on  the  side 
which  is  kept  uppermost,  where  both  are  available.  In  the  plaice,  the 
flounder  and  the  sole  they  are  on  the  right  side  ;  in  the  turbot  and  brill  on 
the  left.  "  The  value  of  these  fish  may  be  estimated  from  the  fact  that 
London  pays  80,000/.  a  year  to  the  Dutch  for  turbot  alone." 

Soles  keep  twenty-four  hours  well.    They  cost  from  is.  to  gd.  per  pair. 

Plaice  varies  from  1  s.  to  6d.  each.    Dabs  are  valueless,  and  taste  of  mud. 

The  Turbot  should  be  thick,  the  under  part  of  the  colour  of  rich  cream  ; 
eyes  bright,  body  stiff,  gills  of  a  fine  clear  red.  It  is  boiled,  and  is  excel- 
lent, when  cold,  made  into  cakes  or  curried.  Soles  are  fried,  boiled  and 
filleted  ;  plaice  is  best  filleted  and  fried — it  is  a  watery  fish  when  boiled. 
Dabs  and  flukes  are  generally  boiled.  Turbot  is  very  expensive— some- 
times 1/.  is.  each.     Brill,  equally  good,  varies  from  &r.  downwards. 

The  Cod  fish  family,  or  Ganoids,  contains  the  cod,  the  haddock,  the 
whiting,  the  hake,  the  coal-fish,  the  pollach,  the  ling  :— their  flesh  is  very 


Cod. — John  Dory. — Haddock.— Mackerel.  147 

valuable  for  diet,  both  fresh,  salted,  or  dried.  The  fishery  of  the  cod  is 
the  most  valuable  in  the  world.  The  pursuit,  the  curing,  and  transport 
affording  employment  to  thousands  of  people  and  whole  fleets  of  ships. 
The  value  of  the  cod  taken  by  British  subjects  on  the  coast  of  Newfound- 
land alone,  is  not  less  than  500,000/.  annually — they  are  caught  with  a 
hook  and  line.  The  cod  should  have  a  small  head,  very  thick  shoulders, 
and  a  small  tail. 

Cod  is  best  dressed  the  day  after  it  is  caught.  It  is  boiled  and  served 
with  oyster  sauce  ;  the  cod,  occasionally,  has  an  oyster  flavour  in  its 
flesh.  It  is  excellent  "  twice  laid" — i.e.,  served  up  with  potatoes  and  hard 
eggs,  or  curried,  or  in  fish  cakes.  Price  generally  from  is.  6d.  to  lod. 
per  lb 

The  John  Dory  is  a  rare  fish,  flat,  and  of  smallish  size.  It  is  sent  to 
London  from  the  coasts  of  Cornwall  and  Devon,  and  is  much  prized  ;  it  is 
more  expensive  than  turbot.  The  gurnard  and  piper  come  also  from  the 
western  coasts  ;  they  have  large  and  ugly  heads  defended  with  spears  and 
plates  of  armour.     They  should  be  split  and  dried  for  twenty-four  hours. 

The  Smelt  is  a  small  fish,  of  delicious  flavour,  resembling  the  cucumber. 
It  is  very  expensive  when  first  it  comes  in,  and  is  used  sometimes  as  a 
garnish  for  larger  fish. 

The  Haddock  is  an  excellent  and  delicate  fish.  It  is  delicious  stuffed 
with  veal  stuffing  and  roasted,  and  delicate  boiled  ;  it  is  also  dried  and 
eaten  for  breakfast— price  from  is.  to  6d.  each.  The  Whiting  is  a  very 
delicate  fish,  it  requires  to  be  cooked  at  once,  as  it  will  not  keep.  It  is 
fried.  The  Hake  is  a  coarse  but  nutritious  fish,  much  eaten  on  the  coast 
of  Devonshire  ;  it  is  generally  stuffed  and  baked  ;  very  cheap  ;  sold  in 
slices.     The  Ling  furnishes  the  ordinary  salt  fish. 

Mackerel. 

Constituent  parts  of  1  lb. 

Oz.    Grs. 

Water 10     374 

Mineral  matter  .     .       o       57 


Oz.   Grs. 
Flesh-formers    .     .       3     387 


Fat 1       56 

The  mackerel  is  an  excellent  fish  ;  it  has  a  blue  back  marked  with  un- 
dulating black  stripes  and  five  false  fins.  It  is  a  migratory  fish,  and  at 
certain  periods  of  the  year  abounds  on  the  coasts  of  Europe  and  America. 
On  the  western  coasts  of  England  the  mackerel  is  captured  with  nets  by 
torchlight ;  it  is  also  caught  by  hook  and  line.  It  bites  eagerly  at  anything 
which  appears  alive,  and  is  "caught  by  glare"— a  bright  fish,  a  piece  of 
glittering  metal,  or  a  bit  of  scarlet  cloth  ;  the  line  is  short,  but  made  heavy 
with  lead  ;  a  couple  of  men  can  catch  1000  a  day.  The  greater  the 
speed  of  the  boat,  the  greater  the  number  of  fish  taken,  therefore  a  fresh 
wind  is  called  a  mackerel  breeze.  Mackerel  fishing  is  considered  delight- 
ful sport.  The  Tunny  of  the  Mediterranean  belongs  to  this  family.  Its 
flesh  resembles  beef. 

Mackerel  are  boiled  with  fennel-sauce,  broiled  or  fried  ;  also  soused  in 
vinegar  for  a  breakfast-dish.  They  should  never  be  eaten  out  of  season, 
as  they  are  especially  injurious.  They  are  very  nourishing  fish  and  cheap. 
Price,  generally  from  6d.  to  3^.  each. 

L   2 


The  Herring,  etc. 

Constituent  parts  of  i  lb. 


Flesh-formers 
Fat.     .     .     . 


Oz.    Grs. 
i     270 
1       60 


Oz.   Grs. 

Water 12     400 

Mineral  matter .     .       o     145 


The  common  herring  inhabits  the  northern  seas  ;  shoals  of  this  fish 
arrive  every  year  on  the  coasts  of  Europe  and  America,  but  they  do 
not  go  farther  south  than  400  of  north  latitude.  In  the  months  of 
April  and  May,  herrings  begin  to  appear  off  the  Shetland  Islands,  and 
towards  the  end  of  June,  and  in  July,  they  arrive  in  vast  numbers,  extend- 
ing over  the  face  of  the  sea  for  leagues,  hundreds  of  feet  in  thickness. 
The  herring  fishery  is  of  immense  importance  ;  it  employs  entire  fleets 
of  ships.  The  fish  are  caught  in  a  net  called  a  gill-net.  The  herring  is  an 
excellent  fish ;  but,  probably  from  its  cheapness  and  its  rather  strong  smell, 
it  does  not  often  appear  at  table.  It  is  bought  at  id.  each.  Salted,  it  is 
greatly  relished,  and  forms  an  important  article  of  food  for  the  poor. 

The  Sardine  is  a  species  of  herring,  celebrated  for  the  delicacy  of  its 
flesh.  It  is  found  in  the  Baltic,  Atlantic,  and  Mediterranean.  During  the 
winter  it  keeps  in  the  depths  of  the  sea,  but  about  June  it  approaches  the 
shore  in  immense  shoals,  and  is  caught  with  ease  in  nets.  The  fishermen 
tempt  it  into  them  by  throwing  into  the  sea  a  bait  made  of  cod-fish 
eggs.  The  sardine  fishery  is  on  the  coast  of  France,  from  the  mouth  of 
the  Loire  to  the  extremity  of  Brittany.  Sardines  are  preserved  in  oil  and 
eaten  as  relishes. 

The  Pilchard,  Sprat,  Whitebait  and  Shad,  are  all  species  of  herrings. 
Potted  pilchards  are  delicious  ;   sprats  contain  an  immense  quantity  of  fat. 

The  Anchovy  is  found  on  the  coast  of  the  Mediterranean  and  the 
western  shores  of  France  and  Spain.  It  approaches  the  coast  to  spawn, 
and  is  then  taken. 

Anchovies  are  attracted  to  the  net  by  furnaces  lighted  in  some  of  the 
boats  ;  they  surround  the  boat  which  contains  the  light,  the  net  is  cast  so 
as  to  surround  the  shoal,  and  then  the  fire  is  suddenly  extinguished.  The 
anchovies,  startled  and  alarmed,  turn  to  escape,  and  are  caught  in  the  net. 
The  head  and  intestines  of  this  fish  are  removed,  and  it  is  preserved  in  salt. 

Anchovy  Cutlets. — Cut  some  bread,  about  half-an-inch  thick,  into  the 
shape  of  pretty  small  cutlets,  fry  them  a  nice  light-brown,  then  spread  thinly 
upon  them  some  anchovy  paste  ;  have  an  egg  boiled  very  hard,  chop  it 
up  small,  yolk  and  white,  with  a  little  fresh  parsley,  which  pile  upon  them, 
and  serve  hot.     (See  plate). 

Sprats  are  sometimes  preserved  like  anchovies. 

The  Basse  is  a  sea-perch  ;  it  is  an  excellent  fish  for  food/ 

Mullets  are  of  two  kinds,  the  red  and  the  sea  mullet.  The  red  mullet 
is  considered  a  great  delicacy.  It  is  celebrated  as  a  fish  in  favour  with  the 
ancient  Romans,  who  took  pleasure  in  watching  the  changes  of  colour 
which  it  displays  when  dying.  Extravagant  sums  were  paid  by  them  for 
large  mullet,  and  at  entertainments  they  were  brought  to  table  alive,  and 
cooked  before  the  eves  of  the  guests. 


Fresh-water  Fish.  149 


For  very  good  receipts  for  cooking  mullet,  see  Warne's  "  Model  Cookery 
Book."  The  sea  mullet  is  larger  than  the  red,  and  is  striped  with  yellow. 
The  grey  mullet  is  an  excellent  fish. 

Fresh-water  fish  are  very  valuable  inland. 

The  Perch  is  an  excellent  fish.  It  inhabits  rivers,  lakes,  and  running 
streams,  and  swims  at  the  depth  of  two  or  three  feet.  It  feeds  on  worms, 
insects,  and  small  fish.  Its  flesh  is  very  agreeable  food.  It  spawns  in 
April. 

The  Perch  is  one  of  the  most  wholesome  of  fish. 

"  The  Carp  ,"  says  Isaac  Walton,  "  is  the  queen  of  rivers  ;  a  stately,  a 
good,  and  a  very  subtle  fish.  It  was  not  at  first  bred,  nor  hath  been  long 
in  England,  but  is  now  naturalized.  It  is  said  they  were  brought  hither 
by  one  Mr.  Mascal,  a  gentleman  that  then  lived  at  Plumstead.  Doubt- 
less there  was  a  time  when  there  were  no  carps  in  England,  as  may 
seem  to  be  affirmed  by  Sir  Richard  Baker,  in  whose  Chronicle  you  may 
find  these  verses  : — 

Hops  and  turkeys,  carps  and  beer, 
Came  into  England  all  in  a  year." 

Carp  feed  on  grain  and  vegetable  substances.  They  have  in  the  back 
part  of  their  mouth  a  remarkable  apparatus  for  crashing  their  food.  The 
carp  delights  in  tranquil  waters. 

It  wiil  live,  like  the  eel,  a  long  time  out  of  its  native  element ;  and 
is  very  tenacious  of  its  life,  which  lasts  for  many  years.  At  six  years 
old  it  weighs  about  three  pounds.  During  winter  the  carp  buries  it-self  in 
the  mud,  and  passes  many  months  without  eating. 

We  are  tempted  to  add  to  this  notice  Isaac  Walton's  receipt  for 
dressing  a  carp,  as  a  specimen  of  the  cookery  of  the  17th  century  : — ■ 

"  Take  a  carp  alive  if  possible  ;  scour  him  and  rub  him  clean  with 
water  and  salt,  but  scale  him  not ;  then  open  him,  and  put  him  with  his 
blood  and  liver,  which  you  must  save  when  you  open  him,  into  a  small 
pot  or  kettle  ;  then  take  sweet  marjoram,  thyme,  and  parsley,  of  each 
half  a  handful,  a  sprig  of  rosemary,  and  another  of  savoury.  Bind  them 
into  two  or  three  small  bundles  and  put  them  to  your  carp,  with  four  or 
five  whole  onions,  twenty  pickled  oysters,  and  three  anchovies.  Then 
pour  upon  your  carp  as  much  claret  wine  as  will  only  cover  him,  and 
season  your  claret  well  with  salt,  cloves,  and  mace,  and  the  rind  of  oranges 
and  lemons.  That  done,  cover  your  pot  and  set  it  on  a  quick  fire  till  it  be 
sufficiently  boiled  ;  then  take  out  the  carp  and  lay  it  with  the  broth  into 
the  dish,  and  pour  upon  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  fresh  butter 
melted,  and  beaten  with  half  a  dozen  spoonfuls  of  the  broth,  the  yolks  of 
two  or  three  eggs,  and  some  of  the  herbs  shred.     Garnish  -with  lemon." 

The  Barbel  resembles  the  carp,  and  is  a  good  fish  for  the  table. 

The  Tench  inhabits  stagnant  waters.  It  is  less  esteemed  as  food  than 
the  carp.  It  has  been  called  the  "  physician  of  fish,"  having  in  former 
ages  been  thought  to  cure  by  its  touch  the  other  fish  in  the  river  or 
pond. 

The  Sturgeon  is  a  royal  fish. 

Every  sturgeon  caught  in  the  English  rivers  belongs  to  the  Queen,  ex- 
cept those  which  swim  in  the  Thames  below  Temple  Bar,  which  are  the 
property  of  the  Lord  Mayor. 


1 5°  The  Pike.— Conger  Eel 

The  sturgeon  is  as  large  as  a  shark,  but  has  no  teeth.  It  lives  by  suction, 
but  manages  to  eat  herrings,  mackerel,  and  sometimes  salmon,  and  it 
roots  in  the  mud  for  worms  and  mollusks. 

The  body  of  the  sturgeon  is  covered  with  plates  of  bone  embedded  in 
the  skin  in  longitudinal  rows.  It  is  a  wholesome  fish,  and  very  delicious 
as  food  ;  it  may  be  cooked  like  veal. 

The  favourite  Russian  caviare  is  made  from  the  eggs  of  the  sturgeon. 
It  is  chiefly  from  the  swimming  bladder  of  these  fishes  that  Russian 
isinglass  is  manufactured. 

The  Pike. 

Constituent  parts  of  I  lb. 

Oz.  Grs.  Oz.  Grs. 


Water 12     281 

Flesh-formers    .     .       3       23 


Fat o 


42 


Mineral  matter       .       o       91 


The  Pike  is  the  most  voracious  of  fresh-water  fish.  It  devours  frogs, 
young  ducks,  and  all  the  fish  which  comes  in  its  way.  Its  presence  in  a 
pond  very  soon  depopulates  it.  Pike  four  or  five  feet  long  are  not  rare  in 
the  great  lakes  of  Northern  Europe.  In  1497  a  pike  was  caught  at  Kaiser- 
lauten,  near  Mannheim,  which  was  nearly  nineteen  feet  in  length,  and 
weighed  350  lbs.  This  monster  had  a  gilt  copper  ring  round  its  neck 
bearing  this  inscription  :  "  I  was  the  first  fish  that  was  thrown  into  this 
pond  by  the  hands  of  Frederick  II.,  October  5th,  1230" — it  was  conse- 
quently 267  years  old  !  The  pike  is  excellent  stuffed  with  veal  stuffing 
and  roasted.  These  fish  are  seldom  bought  in  London  for  the  table,  but 
are  justly  prized  by  the  angler. 

Eels. 

Eels  inhabit  fresh  water.  By  day  they  lie  concealed  in  the  mud  or 
in  holes  which  they  excavate  near  the  shore. 

When  the  water  of  the  pond  grows  low  or  stagnates,  the  eels  leave 
the  bottom  and  conceal  themselves  in  the  herbage  of  the  shore  ;  they 
will  also  at  night  cross  the  land  in  search  of  a  fresh  dwelling-place, 
crawling  on  the  earth  like  serpents.  When  the  ponds  dry  up  they  bury 
themselves  in  the  sand  and  remain  there  till  the  water  returns.  The  eels 
deposit  their  eggs  in  the  sea  ;  in  the  spring  the  young  eels  ascend  rivers, 
and  dwell  in  fresh  water  till  they  go  to  deposit  their  eggs. 

The  Conger  Eel. 
Constituent  parts  of  1  lb. 
Oz.  Grs.  Oz.  Grs. 

Water 11     208  Fat o    350 

Flesh-formers    .     .       3     233  Mineral  matters     .       o       84 

The  Conger  Eel  always  lives  in  the  sea,  or  in  salt  water.  It  is  of 
great  size  and  a  very  rich  fat  fish.  It  abounds  at  the  mouth  of  the 
Severn.  Eels  are  stewed,  fried,  and  boiled.  The  conger  eel  is  cooked 
in  many  various  ways.  (See  "  Model  Cookery,"  and  "  Fish  and  How  to 
Cook  them,"  by  Elizabeth  Watts.)  Eels  sell  at  about  9^/.  per  pound. 
They  average  from  one  and  a  half  to  two  or  three  pounds. 

The  Lamprey  is  a  species  of  eel  very  much  esteemed  as  food.  The  sea 
lamprey  is  two  or  three  feet  in  length,  and  marbled  with  brown  on  a 


Lobster ',  Crab,  Oyster,  etc.  151 

yellowish  ground.  It  inhabits  the  coasts  both  of  Europe  and  America  ; 
in  the  spring  it  ascends  rivers  to  deposit  its  eggs.  The  fresh-water  lamprey 
is  a  smaller  species — seldom  exceeding  eighteen  inches  in  length.  It 
passes  the  greater  part  of  the  year  in  fresh-water  lakes.  Its  colour  is  dark 
olive,  yellowish,  and  silvery  beneath. 

The  Bream  is  a  flat  fish.  It  frequents  still  water  like  the  pike,  and  is 
found  in  ponds.  Its  head  is  very  small ;  it  has  no  teeth  ;  the  colour 
bluish  iron-grey.     It  is  best  stuffed  and  roasted  like  the  pike. 

The  Chub  frequents  deep  rivers,  and  lives  chiefly  on  worms.  Its  flesh 
is  not  very  good,  but  it  is  not  bad  when  stewed  in  rich  gravy. 

The  Roach  and  Dace  are  not  much  valued  for  the  table  though  perfectly 
wholesome.     They  both  haunt  swift  and  gravelly  streams. 

The  Barbel,  named  from  its  beard,  frequents  deep  and  rapid  rivers. 
Its  flesh  is  tasteless  and  poor. 

The  Gudgeon  is  a  delicious  little  fish.  It  is  taken  in  immense  numbers 
in  the  Thames  and  the  rivers  of  Surrey  and  Middlesex. 

The  Ruffe  also  abounds  in  the  Thames.  It  is  a  variety  of  the  perch.  It 
is  not  much  prized,  and  is  sold  very  cheaply  to  the  poor. 

The  Shad  is  a  migratory  fish  which  enters  rivers  for  the  purpose  of 
spawning.  It  has  much  of  the  richness  of  the  salmon,  but  is  only  in 
season  for  a  fortnight  just  before  spawning.  After  that  time  it  is  sold  very 
cheaply. 

Fresh-water  fish  are  not  always  to  be  found  at  the  fishmongers,  but  most 
of  them  may  be  had  if  desired.     The  price  varies,  and  is  quite  uncertain. 

"  All  fish,"  says  Dr.  Letheby,  "  are  in  their  best  condition  at  the  time 
of  the  ripening  of  the  milt  and  roe,  for  not  only  are  they  fatter  at  that  time, 
but  when  cooked  they  have  a  better  flavour,  and  the  flesh  is  solid  and 
opaque.  On  the  other  hand  when  they  are  out  of  condition  the  flesh  is 
semi-gelatinous  and  watery." 

The  Lobster,  Crab,  and  Oyster. 

"  On  examining  a  lobster  with  a  little  attention,"  says  Professor 
Jones,*  "  it  will  be  seen  that  its  head  is  furnished  with  four  antennae. 

Its  eyes   are  compound  like  those  of  an  insect,  and   are 

supported  upon  a  pair  of  moveable  pedicles.  There  are  five  pairs  of 
jointed  limbs  placed  on  each  side  of  the  mouth,  which  are  evidently 
adapted  to  assist  in  seizing  and  conveying  ifto  the  mouth  the  substances 
used  as  food."  (These  organs  are  termed  "  foot-jaws.")  "  The  pair  of 
legs  which  comes  next  are  developed  to  a  size  far  surpassing  that  of  the 
other  limbs,  and  are  endowed  with  proportionate  strength."  Each  leg  or 
claw  ends  in  a  pair  of  strong  pincers,  but  they  differ  in  their  structure 
and  uses.  One  claw  is  armed  with  sharp  teeth  ;  the  other  has  the  op- 
posed edges  of  its  terminal  forceps  provided  with  large  blunt  tubercles. 
One  is  used  as  an  anchor  ;  the  other  for  tearing  and  dividing  the  creature's 
prey.  Then  follow  behind  the  claws  four  pairs  of  slender  legs,  but  they 
are  not  much  used  for  locomotion  ;  that  is  chiefly  effected  by  the  tail, 
which  terminates  in  a  fin  formed  of  broad  plates,  so  arranged  that  while 
they  will  close  together  during  the  extension  of  the  tail,  and  thus  present 

*   "The  Animal  Creation." 


152  Oysters  Stewed  with  Wine,  etc. 


the  least  possible  surface  to  the  water,  they  are  brought  out  to  their  full 
expansion  by  its  down-stroke  ;  and  such  is  the  impulse  thus  given  that 
a  lobster  will  dart  backwards  to  a  distance  of  twenty  or  thirty  feet  by  one 
sweep  of  this  remarkable  locomotive  instrument."  Lobsters  are  caught 
in  wicker  baskets  called  pots.  They  change  their  shells  every  year, 
and  during  their  moulting  remain  concealed  in  the  deepest  recesses  of  the 
rocks.  They  are  in  season  when  oysters  are  out  of  season,  in  the  summer  ; 
in  winter  male  lobsters  only  are  in  good  condition.  The  hen  lobster 
may  be  known  by  her  coral  spawn,  which  is  used  for  garnishing  turbot, 
and  for  sauce. 

If  a  lobster  is  stale  the  tail  hangs  limp,  while  if  fresh  it  is  drawn  under 
the  fish,  and  if  pulled  out  will  spring  back  again  when  it  is  let  go.  The 
quality  of  the  lobster  is  judged  by  its  weight ;  a  light  lobster  is  not  a 
good  one.  Price  averages  from  is.  6d.  to  6d.  each,  according  to  size  and 
abundance. 

Crabs,  also,  are  to  be  judged  by  their  weight  and  stiffness.  Light  and 
limp  they  are  bad. 

Oysters  are  in  season  from  August  to  May.  They  are  divided  into 
natives  and  common  oysters  ;  the  former  being  fattened  in  beds.  The 
mid-sea  oysters  are  dredged  for,  and  are  large  and  coarse.  Oysters,  if 
fresh,  will  close  forcibly  on  the  knife  when  opened.  If  the  shell  gapes  the 
least  bit  the  oyster  is  losing  its  freshness. 

Oysters  Stewed  with  Wine. 

Receipt  100 years  old.. 

Rub  over  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  silver  or  any  other  chafing  dish  a 
little  butter  ;  lay  some  oysters  in  it,  strew  over  them  a  little  pepper  and 
minced  parsley ;  then  put  to  them  half  a  glass  of  champagne,  cover 
them  with  slices  of  butter  cut  very  thin  ;  strew  grated  bread  over  ; 
put  a  cover  over  the  dish,  and  set  them  cooking,  with  fire  over  and  under, 
until  they  are  a  fine  brown  ;  then  take  off  all  the  fat,  wipe  the  rim  of  the 
dish,  and  serve  hot.     This  may  be  done  in  an  oven  instead. 

Oysters  au  Parmesan. 

Instead  of  grated  bread,  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  use  grated  Par- 
mesan, or  English  cheese. 

Oyster  Etiquette. 

Open  two  dozen  oysters,  and  put  them  into  a  basin  ;  chop  a  small  bunch 
of  parsley  very  fine,  mix  with  it  a  little  minced  lemon  peel,  half  a  nutmeg 
grated,  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll  grated  fine,  and  one  drachm  of  Cayenne 
pepper,  well  beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  ;  dip  each  oyster  separately 
into  this,  and  then  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs  until  they  are  thoroughly 
encased;  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  Dutch  oven  before  a 
brisk  fire,  and  when  the  butter  is  melted,  arrange  the  oysters  on  the  tray 
of  the  oven,  and  keep  them  turned  until  they  are  perfectly  brown.  When 
baked,  serve  them  up  with  a  plate  of  bread  and  butter  cut  very  thin. 

A  stick  of  celery  eaten  with  them  adds  to  the  relish. 


/.    Cheese  I 'ml ill  ii  (i. 

'!.    thiii'lriir  a  In  Neige 


3 .  Roasted   Oysters. 

4.  Spatchcock. 

5.  Scalloped  Scallops. 


6.  Lobster  Culhts. 

7.  Buttered  Lobster. 


Lobster  Cutlets. — Shrimps  and  Prawns.  153 


Boasted  Oysters. 

Wash  the  shells  perfectly  clean,  wipe  them  dry,  and  lay  them  on  a 
gridiron  the  largest  side  to  the  fire  ;  set  it  over  a  bright  kind  of  coal. 
When  the  shells  open  wide  and  the  oyster  looks  white  they  are  done. 
Fold  a  napkin  on  a  large  dish,  lay  the  oysters  on  their  shells,  taking  care 
not  to  lose  the  juice.     Serve  hot. 

Serve  cold  butter  and  rolls  with  oysters. 

Buttered  Lobsters— American. 

Boil  a  lobster,  take  the  meat  from  the  shell  and  mince  or  chop  it  fine  ; 
put  the  coral  and  green  inside,  but  leave  out  the  "  lady."  To  a  wineglass 
of  vinegar,  or  hot  water,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  a 
salt-spoonful  of  Cayenne,  one  of  made-mustard,  and  put  it  with  the  lobster 
into  a  stewpan  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  stir  it  until  it  is  thoroughly  heated. 
Cut  three  heads  of  nicely  washed  lettuce,  put  them  at  the  sides  of  a  salad 
bowl,  lay  the  hot  lobster  in  the  middle,  garnish  with  a  hard-boiled  egg  cut 


Lobster  Cutlets— excellent. 

Pick  the  meat  from  a  large  hen  lobster  and  two  small  ones,  and  pound 
it  in  a  mortar  with  part  of  the  coral,  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt, 
a  blade  of  pounded  mace,  a  little  nutmeg  and  Cayenne  pepper.  Add  the 
yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs,  the  white  of  one,  and  a  spoonful  of  anchovy 
sauce  ;  mix  the  above  ingredients  thoroughly  together,  and  roll  it  out  as 
you  would  paste  with  a  little  flour,  nearly  two  inches  thick.  Cut  it  into 
cutlets,  brush  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  egg,  dip  them  into  bread-crumbs, 
and  fry  them  a  nice  brown  in  butter.  Make  a  sauce  with  a  cupful  of  melted 
butter,  a  spoonful  of  anchovy,  and  the  remainder  of  the  coral.  Pour 
it  into  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish,  and  arrange  the  lobster  cutlets  round  it, 
as  you  would  cutlets  of  meat ;  place  between  each  the  horns  of  the  lobster 
cut  into  short  lengths. 

Shrimps  and  Prawns. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  shrimp — the  brown  and  the  red.  The  brown 
keeps  near  the  shore,  and  is  the  most  highly  flavoured. 

The  red  shrimp  is  smaller,  and  of  a  more  delicate  flavour.  It  was 
accidentally  discovered  in  Great  Yarmouth  Roads  by  some  boatmen 
who  were  sweeping  for  lost  anchors.  The  basket  of  "  swill "  let  down 
between  the  boats  to  find  the  anchor  returned  full  of  red  shrimps,  which 
had  not  before  been  known. 

The  prawn  is  a  very  large  shrimp.  It  is  caught  in  traps  and  baited  nets 
on  the  coast,  and  at  the  mouth  of  rivers.  Shrimps  bought  alive  and  boiled 
at  home  are  very  superior  to  those  bought  ready  boiled.  This  is  the  case 
also  with  prawns.  They  take  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  to  boil  in  salt  and 
water.  Amongst  boiled  purchased  shrimps  we  sometimes  see  a  few  flat 
and  extended  ;  this  is  caused  by  the  shrimp  having  been  dead  before  it 
was  boiled.     It  will  not  be  good  to  eat. 


154  Cray -fish,  Mussels,  etc. — Dried  Fish. 


Shrimp  Pancakes. 

Boil  one  pound  of  the  best  fluke  potatoes  ;  peel  and  beat  them  up  in  a 
mortar  ;  then  (with  a  spoon)  stir  the  same  up  with  milk  till  they  become 
a  soft  paste  ;  scatter  into  the  latter  half  a  pint  of  picked  shrimps,  dredge 
a  small  quantity  of  flour  into  the  paste,  divide  it  into  portions,  and  fry 
them  separately  in  a  pan  with  good  butter.  If  eggs  are  used  they  will 
improve  them. 

Cray-fish,  Mussels,  etc. 

Cray-fish  resemble  lobsters,  but  are  not  equal  to  them  in  flavour. 

Mussels  maybe  eaten  plain.  Put  a  quart  of  them  in  a  pan,  after  being 
well  washed,  with  some  onions  cut  in  slices,  also  a  little  parsley  ;  put 
them  on  a  sharp  fire  for  ten  minutes,  when  they  will  all  open  ;  then  remove 
the  beard  and  black  part,  and  eat  them  plain  with  some  of  their  juice. 
Mussels  are  sometimes  poisonous.     They  are  not  very  generally  eaten. 

Cockles  are  much  liked  by  some  people.     They  are  very  good  pickled. 

Whelks  when  small  are  boiled  and  eaten  like  periwinkles.  When  large 
they  can  be  removed  from  their  shell,  and  fried  as  fritters. 

Periwinkles  are  eaten  chiefly  by  the  poor. 

St.  James's  cockle  or  scallop  is  a  very  good  shell  fish.  It  resembles 
lobster  in  flavour,  and  is  scalloped  like  oysters  in  its  own  shell. 

Scalloped  Scallops. 

Take  the  Scallops  out  of  their  shells,  cut  off  their  beards  and  divide 
each  into  three  or  four  pieces.  Fry  some  bread  crumbs  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  until  they  are  brown.  Put  in  the  scallops  and  fry  them 
and  the  bread  crumbs  for  three  minutes,  shaking  the  pan  all  the  time. 
Pack  them  neatly  in  their  shells,  brown  the  tops,  and  serve  them. 

If  the  greater  shells  of  the  scallop  are  saved  they  will  supply  the  place 
of  the  silver-scallop  shell,  in  which  it  is  usual  to  send  scalloped  oysters, 
veal,  or  chicken  to  table. 

Dried  Fish. 

Salmon,  Cod,  Herrings,  and  Haddock  are  our  dried  fish.  These  fish 
are  dried  by  being  salted  and  smoked  ;  they  are  also  sometimes  rubbed 
over  with  pyroligneous  acid,  which  preserves  them  at  smaller  cost.  Pre- 
served salmon  is  called  kippered  ;  preserved  cod  is  called  salt  fish.  It  is 
prepared  chiefly  in  Newfoundland,  and  sent  home  dry,  or  in  barrels  with 
layers  of  salt.  Preserved  herrings  are  called  "  Red,"  or  "  Bloaters."  The 
former  are  very  dry  and  salt,  and  keep  a  long  time  ;  the  latter  have  very 
little  salt,  or  smoking,  and  will  not  keep  long. 

Bloaters  are  sold  at  \d.  to  \\d.  each;  haddock  is  dried  and  salted, 
price  from  ^d.  to  6d.  each. 

Choosing  Fish. 

For  choosing  fish  we  give  these  rules  : — Eyes  should  be  bright ;  gills 
a  fine  clear  red  ;  body  stiff ;  smell  not  unpleasant. 

Fish  may  be  preserved  well  in  ice,  but  it  rather  spoils  their  flavour. 


bJ 


VEGETABLES. 

The  Potato. 

The  potato  contains  little  flesh-forming  matter ;    it   is   valuable   01 
account  of  its  starch  and  mineral  substances. 


lib.  of  fresh  Potatoes  contains — 
Oz.     Grs. 


Water   ....  12  o 

Flesh-formers     .  o  100 

Starch  ....  2  219 

Sugar    ....  o  221 


Oz.  Grs. 

Dextrin  or  gum    .     o  30 

Fat o  15 

Woody  fibre     .     .     o  228 

Mineral  ashes .     .     o  64 


The  ripe  potato  is  covered  with  a  thin  skin  of  cork  through  which 
water  can  scarcely  pass.  It  is  this  cork  skin  which  enables  the  potato  to 
be  kept  the  winter  through. 

It  is  nearly  three  hundred  years  since  the  potato  was  introduced  into 
this  country.  This  valuable  root  is  now  amongst  the  necessaries  of  life, 
being  seldom  absent  from  the  table  of  either  the  rich  or  poor.  Let  us 
trace  back  its  history  and  see  how  its  progress  and  uses  have  become 
more  and  more  developed  as  it  has  added  to  our  daily  domestic  comforts. 

Sir  Walter  Raleigh  has  the  undoubted  credit  of  bringing  the  potato 
into  notice,  and  his  name  seems  as  closely  associated,  in  our  minds,  with 
this  plant  as  it  does  with  the  tobacco,  which  by  his  instrumentality  was 
brought  to  our  knowledge.  We  are,  however,  more  individually  indebted 
to  Thomas  Herriot,  the  well-known  mathematician,  who  was  one  of  the 
"adventurers"  sent  out  under  the  sanction  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  who 
granted  a  patent  for  "  discovering  and  planting  new  lands,  not  possessed 
by  Christians,"  which  passed  the  great  seal  in  1584.  He  returned  on  the 
27th  July,  two  years  after,  and  describes  a  plant  called  by  the  natives 
"  Openawk,"  growing  in  that  part  of  North  America  which  Raleigh  had 
named  Virginia.  "  The  roots  of  this  plant,"  says  Herriot,  "  are  round  ; 
some  as  large  as  a  walnut,  others  much  larger ;  'they  grow  in  damp  soils, 
many  hanging  together  as  if  fixed  upon  ropes.  They  are  good  food  boiled 
or  roasted." 

The  potato  was  grown  in  Ireland  before  it  came  to  England  ;  first,  on 
the  estate  of  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  near  Youghal,  county  Cork,  where  it 
grew  and  bore  flowers.  The  gardener  gathered  the  "  apples,"  or  "  berries," 
and,  in  showing  them  to  his  master,  said,  "Is  this  the  fine  fruit  from 
America  you  so  highly  praised  ?"  Sir  Walter  pretended  to  be  ignorant  of 
the  matter,  and  desired  him  to  dig  up  the  weed  and  throw  it  away.  The 
man,  in  following  his  directions,  rinding  a  large  number  of  tubers,  saved 
them. 

Sir  Robert  Southwell,  President  of  the  Royal  Society,  informed  the 
Fellows,  in  1693,  that  his  grandfather  had  purchased  potatoes  from  Sir 
Walter  Raleigh,  and  was  the  first  cultivator  of  them  in  Ireland.     At  the 


156  The  Potato. 


end  of  the  seventeenth  century  they  were  as  much  used  in  that  country  as 
bread.  Dean  Swift,  in  alluding  to  the  families  and  farmers  of  Ireland, 
says,  "  They  live  upon  buttermilk  and  potatoes." 

"  Leek  to  the  Welsh,  to  Dutchmen  butter's  dear, 
Of  Irish  swains  potato  is  the  cheer."  * 

In  Scotland  the  potato  was  not  largely  grown  till  1728.  A  labourer, 
named  Prentice,  living  in  Stirlingshire,  planted  a  little  plot  of  ground 
from  which  he  partly  obtained  his  livelihood  with  them.  They  throve  so 
well,  and  were  so  productive,  that  he  retired  upon  a  small  fortune  which 
he  had  been  enabled  to  make,  after  having  witnessed  the  success  of  their 
growth  for  sixty  years.  The  neighbouring  cottagers  and  farmers  seeing 
the  great  value  of  the  root,  the  potato  became  generally  cultivated. 

The  potato  was  first  planted  in  England,  in  Lancashire,  owing 
to  a  shipwreck,  when  we  are  informed  that  it  was  accidentally  thrown 
on  our  shore  at  North  Moels,  a  soil  well  adapted  for  producing  this 
vegetable  in  great  perfection,  and  where  the  mode  of  propagation  still 
maintains  pre-eminence,  and  from  whence  this  important  plant  has 
gradually  spread  through  every  portion  of  Great  Britain.  But  it  was  not 
for  some  time  generally  grown,  and  was  only  to  be  met  with  in  the  gardens 
of  noblemen  as  a  "  curious  exotic  ;"  and  in  the  reign  of  James  I.  was  con- 
sidered such  a  delicacy  as  only  to  be  provided  in  small  quantities  at  the 
cost  of  two  shillings  a  pound  for  the  Queen's  household.  Through  the 
succeeding  reign  and  the  Commonwealth  the  potato  remained  extremely 
scarce,  and  its  culture  was  not  universally  extended  till  more  than  a 
hundred  years  after  the  discovery  of  Virginia. t 

Ray  (1662)  scarcely  mentions  it,  and  Evelyn  does  not  name  the  potato 
in  his  "  Sylvia,"  although  specially  asked  to  do  so  by  the  Royal  Society  ; 
but  thirty  years  after,  in  his  "  Kalendarium  Plantarum"  (1664),  says, 
"  Plant  your  potato  in  your  worst  ground  ;  take  them  up  in  November  for 
winter  spending  ;  there  will  be  enough  remaining  for  stock  though  ever  so 
exactly  gathered." 

The  potato  found  its  way  on  to  the  Continent  at  an  earlier  period  than 
that  already  mentioned.  Peter  Cicca,  in  his  Chronicle,  printed  in  1553, 
tells  us  that  the  inhabitants  of  Quito  and  its  vicinity  have,  besides  maize, 
a  tuberous  root,  which  they  eat  and  call  "  Papas."  This,  Clusius  conjec- 
tures to  be. the  plant  he  received  from  Flanders  in  1598,  during  his  resi- 
dence at  Vienna,  it  having  been  sent  to  him  by  the  governor  of  Mons, 
in  Hainault,  who  procured  it  the  year  before  from  the  attendants  of  the 
Pope's  legate,  under  the  name  of  Taratoufli,  and  learned  from  them  that  it 
was  then  in  use  in  Italy,  but  no  one  knew  if  its  origin  were  Spanish  or 


*  John  Gay. 
f  Looking  through  the  average  prices  of  vegetables  at  Covent  Garden  Market, 
which  was  drawn  up  some  fifteen  years  ago,  we  find  that  when  the  new  or  forced 
potato  first  came  in  they  were  sold  in  March,  April,  and  May  at  the  prices  respec- 
tively of  ten,  six,  and  five  shillings  a  pound.  During  these  three  months  they  are 
considered  amongst  our  greatest  vegetable  delicacies.  The  importation  of  new 
potatoes  from  Holland  now  permits  the  greengrocers  at  Covent  Garden  to  sell 
them  at  is.  a  basket — i.e.,  about  one  pound— as  early  as  February. 


The  Potato.  157 


American.  As  the  Spaniards  were  at  that  time  sole  possessors  of  South 
America,  there  can  be  but  little  doubt  the  plant  came  from  the  moun- 
tainous parts  of  Quito  into  Spain,  and  from  thence  to  Italy.  The  Italians 
becoming  well  acquainted  with  the  potato,  gave  it  the  same  title  as  the 
Truffle,  being  also,  in  habit,  an  underground  root. 

Some  writers  assert  that  potatoes  were  discovered  by  Sir  Francis 
Drake  in  the  South  Seas,  and  others  that  Sir  John  Hawkins  introduced 
them  into  England.  It  is  evidently  the  sweet  potato,  or  Battata  da 
Terra,  that  is  alluded  to,  and  which  was  used  in  England  as  a  delicacy 
before  the  introduction  of  our  potato,  and  was  imported  in  large  quanti- 
ties from  Spain  and  the  Canaries.  These  were  supposed  to  possess  in- 
vigorating qualities.  Kissing  comfits  and  other  confections  were  made 
from  them  and  from  the  eringo  root.  Falstaff  says  in  the  "  Merry  Wives 
of  Windsor:"* 

"  Let  it  rain  potatoes  and  hail  kissing  comfits." 

The  potato  is  in  general  use  in  France,  Germany,  and  Holland  ;  it  was 
introduced  into  Sweden  in  1726,  but  was  little  cultivated  there  till  aided  by 
a  Royal  edict  three  years  after.  It  increased  rapidly  in  Russia,  and  is 
grown  in  the  East  and  West  Indies. 

Attempts  have  been  made  to  grow  the  potato  in  Ceylon  ;  it  thrives  only 
in  one  spot  of  the  interior  of  the  island,  from  whence  the  Governor's  table 
is  supplied.  In  China  the  progress  of  the  potato  has  been  very  slow  ;  its 
value  does  not  appear  to  be  appreciated  in  that  country.  The  colonists  of 
Australia,  New  Zealand,  and  Queensland  cultivate  the  root  largely. 

Gerrard  in  his  valuable  and  quaint  old  Herbal  (1597)  gives  the  follow- 
ing account  of  the  potato  : — "  This  plant  (which  is  called  of  some  sasa- 
rum  Pcnruianum,  or  skyrrets  of  Peru)  is  generally  of  us  called  potatus 
or  potatoes.  It  hath  long  flexible  branches  trailing  upon  the  ground  like 
unto  those  of  pompions,  whereon  arc  set  greene  three-cornered  leaves  very 
like  those  of  the  wild  cucumber.  There  is  not  any  that  have  written  of 
this  plant,  have  said  anything  of  the  flowers  ;  therefore  I  refer  their 
description  unto  those  that  shall  hereafter  have  further  knowledge  of  the 
same. 

"  Yet  have  I  had  in  my  garden  divers  roots  that  have  flourished  unto 
the  first  approach  of  winter,  and  have  grownc  unto  a  great  length  of 
branches,  but  they  brought  forth  no  flowers  at  all  ;  whether  because  the 
winter  caused  them  to  perish  before  their  time  of  flowering  or  that  they  be 
barren  of  flowers  I  am  not  certain.  The  roots  are  many,  thick,  and 
knobby,  like  unto  the  roots  of  peonies,  or  rather  the  white  asphodill  joined 
together  at  the  top  into  one  head,  in  the  manner  of  the  skyrret,  which 
being  divided  into  divers  parts  and  planted,  do  make  a  great  increase,  es- 
pecially if  the  greatest  roots  be  cut  into  divers  goblets  and  planted  in 
good  fertile  ground.  The  potatoes  grow  in  India,  Barbarie,  Spaine,  and 
other  hot  regions  ;  of  which  I  planted  divers  roots  (which  I  bought  at  the 
Exchanget  in  London)  in  my  garden,  where  they  flourished  until  winter, 

*  Act  v.  scene  3. 
+  In  the  Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  India,  China,  and  Japan,  is  an 
entry  referring  to  Billingsgate,  November,  1621,  where,  amongst  other  necessaries, 
potatoes  may  be  bought. 


15s  The  Potato. 


at  which  time  they  perished  and  rotted.  It  flourisheth  till  the  end  of 
September  ;  at  the  first  approach  of  great  frosts  the  leaves  together  with 
the  stalks  do  perish.  The  leaves  of  potatoes  are  hot  and  dry,  as  may  evi- 
dently appear  by  the  taste  :  the  roots  are  of  a  temperate  qualitie.  The 
potato  roots  are  among  the  Spaniards,  Italians,  Indians,  and  many  other 
nations  ordinarie  and  common  meat  ;  which,  no  doubt,  are  of  mighty  and 
nourishing  parts,  and  doe  strengthen  and  comfort  nature  ;  whose  nutriment 
is  as  it  were  a  mean  between  flesh  and  fruit,  but  somewhat  windie ;  yet  being 
roasted  in  the  embers  they  lose  much  of  their  windiness,  especially  being 
eaten  sopped  in  wine.  Of  these  roots  may  be  made  conserves  no  lesse 
toothsome,  wholesome,  and  dainty,  than  of  the  flesh  of  quinces,  and  like- 
wise those  comfortable  and  delicate  meats  called  in  shops,  morselli placen- 
titis, and  divers  other  such  like. 

"  These  roots  may  serve  as  a  ground  or  foundation  whereon  the  cun- 
ning confectioner  or  sugar-baker  may  worke  and  frame  many  comfortable 
delicate  conserves  and  restorative  sweet-meats.  They  are  used  to  be  eaten 
rosted  in  the  ashes.  Some  when  they  be  so  rosted  infuse  and  sop  them 
in  wine  :  and  others  to  give  them  the  greater  grace  in  eating  do  boile  them 
with  prunes  and  so  eat  them  :  likewise  others  dresse  them  (being  first 
rosted)  with  oile,  vinegar,  and  salt,  every  man  according  to  his  owne  taste 
and  liking." 

Our  old  author  adds  a  description  of  the  Virginia  potato  as  follows  : — 
"  Virginian  Potato  hath  many  hollow  flexible  branches  trailing  upon  the 
ground,  three-square,  uneven,  knotted,  or  kneed  in  sundry  places  at  cer- 
taine  distances  ;  from  the  which  knots  commeth  forth  one  great  leafe  made 
of  divers  leaves,  some  smaller,  others  greater,  set  together  upon  a  fat 
middle  rib  by  couples,  of  a  swart  greene  colour  tending  to  rednesse  ;  the 
whole  leafe  resembling  those  of  the  winter-cresses,  but  much  larger  ;  in 
taste  at  the  first  like  grasse,  but  afterwards  sharp  and  nipping  the 
tongue.  From  the  bosome  of  which  leaves  come  forth,  long  round  slender 
foot-stalks,  whereon  grow  very  faire  and  pleasant  floures,  made  of  one 
entire  whole  leafe,  which  is  folded  or  plaited  in  such  strange  sort,  that  it 
seems  to  be  a  floure  made  of  fine  sundry  small  leaves  which  cannot  easily 
be  perceived  except  the  same  be  pulled  open.  The  whole  floure  is  of  a 
light  purple  colour  striped  downe  the  middle  of  every  fold  or  welt  with  a 
light  shew  of  yellownesse,  as  if  purple  and  yellow  were  mixed  together.  In 
the  middle  of  the  floure  thrusteth  forth  a  thicke  flat  pointall,  as  yellow  as 
gold,  with  a  small  sharp  green  pricke  or  point  in  the  midst  thereof.  The 
fruit  succeeds  the  floures,  round  as  a  ball,  of  the  bignesse  of  a  little 
Bullesse  or  wilde  plumme,  green  at  the  first,  and  blacke  when  it  is  ripe, 
wherein  is  contained  small  white  seed  lesse  than  those  of  mustard.  The 
root  is  thicke,  fat,  tuberous,  not  much  differing  either  in  shape,  colour,  or 
taste  from  the  common  potato,  saving  that  the  roots  hereof  are  not  so 
great  nor  long  ;  some  of  them  are  as  round  as  a  ball,  some  oval  or  eggc- 
fashion,  some  longer  and  others  shorter ;  the  which  knobby  roots  are 
fastened  on  to  the  stalks  with  an  infinite  number  of  threddy  strings.  It 
growcth  naturally  in  America,  where  it  was  first  discovered  as  reported 
Clusius,  since  which  time  I  have  receiued  roots  hereof  from  Virginia, 
otherwise  called  Norembega,  which  grow  and  prosper  in  my  garden  as  in 
their  owne  native  country.  The  leaves  thrust  forth  of  the  ground  in  the 
beginning  of  May ;  the  floures  bud  forth  in  August ;  the  fruit  is  ripe  in 


The  Potato.  159 


September.  The  temperature  and  vertues  be  referred  to  the  common 
potato's  being  likewise  a  food,  as  also  a  meat  for  pleasure,  equall  in  good- 
nesse  and  wholesomnesse  to  the  same,  being  either  rosted  in  the  embers 
or  boiled  and  eaten  with  oile,  vinegar,  and  pepper,  or  dressed  some  other 
way  by  the  hand  of  a  skilfull  cooke." 

Lord  Bacon  writes  soon  after  Gerrard,  that  "  If  potato-roots  be  set  in  a 
pot  filled  with  earth,  and  then  the  pot  with  earth  be  set  likewise  within  the 
ground  some  two  or  three  inches,  the  rootes  will  grow  greater  than  ordi- 
nary. The  cause  may  be,  for  that  having  earth  enough  within  the  pot  to 
nourish  them,  and  then  being  stopped  by  the  bottom  of  the  pot  from 
putting  strings  downward,  they  must  needs  grow  greater  in  breadth  and 
thicknesse.  And  it  may  be  that  all  seed  roots,  potted  and  so  set  in  earth, 
will  prosper  the  better." — Professor  Bradley  in  his  work  on  "  New  Im- 
provements of  Planting  and  Gardening,"  (1718),  says,  after  describing  other 
tuberous  plants — "  Potatoes  and  Jerusalem  artichokes  are  roots  of  less  note 
than  any  I  have  yet  mentioned  ;  but  as  they  are  not  without  their  ad- 
mirers, so  I  shall  not  pass  by  the  method  of  their  culture  in  silence.  The 
potato  rather  loves  a  sandy  than  a  strong  soil  :  I  have  seen  them  do  well 
in  both,  but  I  have  observed  that  the  roots  knot  much  better  and  are 
sweeter  in  the  sand." 

There  have  been  some  prejudices  against  the  potato,  on  account  of  its 
being  a  species  of  the  Solatium,  or  Nightshade.  In  Burgundy  its  use 
was  interdicted,  as  it  was  deemed  a  poisonous  and  mischievous  root,  and 
among  other  evils  was  accused  of  occasioning  leprosy  and  dysentery.  In 
France  there  was  also  considerable  opposition  to  the  "  Pomme  de  Terre." 
The  philosophy  of  the  age  was  unable  to  dissipate  this  until  Louis  XV. 
wore  a  bunch  of  the  flowers  on  a  day  of  festivity  in  the  midst  of  his  court. 
The  people  then  acknowledged  its  usefulness,  and  its  cultivation  as  an 
article  of  food  became  universal.  The  value  of  the  potato  has  been  no 
less  appreciated  by  our  own  Queen,  who  on  one  occasion  appeared  before 
her  court  adorned  with  its  blossoms. 

The  potato  undoubtedly  is  amongst  the  greatest  blessings  that  the  soil 
produces,  every  part  of  it  being  available  for  use.  A  bright  light,  so 
powerful  as  to  enable  the  bystander  to  read  by  it,  issues  from  the  common 
potato  when  in  a  state  of  putrefaction  ;  and  Professor  Lindley  mentions 
that  an  officer  on  guard  at  barracks,  near  Strasburg,  during  night,  thought 
that  the  building  was  on  fire  ;  and,  upon  examination,  found  that  the  vivid 
light  which  had  alarmed  him  proceeded  from  a  heap  of  potatoes  contained 
in  a  cellar.  The  apples,  when  ripe,  foment  and  yield  vinegar  ;  the  stalks 
produce  a  cottony  flax  ;  also  potash  ;  its  tubercles  made  into  pulp  are  a 
substitute  for  soap  in  bleaching.  In  Sweden  sugar  is  extracted  from  the 
roots  of  the  potato,  which  also  yield  a  sweet  but  not  strong  spirit,  which  is 
so  plentiful  in  that  country  and  Norway  as  not  even  to  be  charged  for  at 
meals.  The  liquor  obtained  in  making  potato-starch  will  clean  silk, 
woollen,  and  cotton  articles  without  damaging  them  ;  and  is  also  useful  in 
cleaning  paint.  The  fecula,  or  substance,  of  the  potato  answers  the  pur- 
pose of  tapioca,  and  the  best  souffles  are  made  with  it.  Hair  powder  has 
also  been  prepared  from  the  potato  farina,  and  size  also  obtained  from 
this  root,  as  well  as  yeast  fit  for  the  use  of  either  the  baker  or  brewer. 

Waxy  potatoes  contain  but  little  nutriment  ;  when  mealy,  one  thousand 
parts  contain  two  hundred  parts  of  starch  (used  by  the  French  bakers  as 


x6o  The  Cultivation  of  the  Potato. 

flour,  and  sold  by  druggists  as  arrowroot),  forty  parts  of  gluten,  twenty  parts 
of  sugar,  and  the  rest  leguminous  fibre  and  some  of  the  alkaline  earths. 

Horses  will  eat  potatoes  ;  they  are  said  to  cool  the  blood,  and  when 
used  raw  to  be  a  remedy  for  swelled  legs.  For  fattening  cattle,  sheep, 
and  pigs,  mixed  with  other  food  they  are  very  nutritious.  Potatoes  are  a 
valuable  article  for  rearing  poultry  of  all  kinds  ;  they  will  feed  and  fatten 
on  them  with  much  less  grain  in  half  the  time  than  on  corn  or  even  meal 
alone.  Potatoes  boiled  and  mashed,  and  mixed  with  meal,  are  excellent 
food  for  dogs. 

The  Cultivation  of  the  Potato. 

The  mode  of  propagating  this  root  is  very  simple,  the  common  method 
being  to  set  the  potato  itself.  This  applies  more  particularly  to  the  early 
kidney  varieties,  the  later  sorts  and  the  round  potatoes  having  usually  a 
greater  abundance  of  eyes  or  buds.  In  cutting  potatoes  for  sets  they  should 
be  divided  through  the  crown,  as  the  shoots  which  rise  up  from  the  bottom 
are  strong  and  vigorous,  and  produce  more  stem,  which  takes  from  the 
nourishment  of  the  root  by  depriving  it  of  the  sap.  One  or  two  eyes  in 
each  set  is  sufficient.  It  is  desirable  to  let  the  wounds  of  cut  potatoes 
remain  for  a  few  days  to  harden  and  heal  over  before  planting  them. 
Small  potatoes  are  sometimes  preferred  for  setting,  the  crop  producing 
usually  about  the  same  quantity  of  potatoes  in  either  case. 

The  early,  or  forced,  potatoes  are  raised  in  hot  beds  or  grown  in  pots  in 
manure  or  tan  beds  (set  about  Christmas  or  January)  ;  but  for  our  usual  out- 
door early  crops  they  are  planted  in  the  open  ground  about  the  middle  of 
February.  They  are  planted  in  rows  two  feet  apart  and  about  fifteen 
inches  distant  from  each  other.  The  potato  should  always  be  planted 
with  the  crown  uppermost  (which  will  make  the  difference  of  a  fortnight 
in  its  appearance  above  ground),  and  placed  four  or  five  inches  in  the  earth, 
leaving  the  soil  loosely  round  them,  at  the  same  time  covering  them  well 
over.  When  the  potatoes  are  three  or  four  inches  high,  the  spaces  between 
should  be  well  hoed  to  remove  weeds  and  loosen  the  soil  round  them, 
which  promotes  the  growth  ;  when  the  stems  have  further  advanced  to 
about  eight  inches  high,  the  earth  should  be  hoed  up  round  them  to 
exclude  the  light  from  the  roots  (which  turns  them  green);  a  second 
hoeing  is  sometimes  required  to  prevent  the  stems  from  falling. 

The  late  crop  of  potatoes  may  be  planted  in  March  and  April.  The 
ground  is  generally  prepared  for  them  previously,  and  holes  made  with  a 
setting  stick  and  the  soil  trod  up  over  them,  whilst  the  sets  may  be 
dropped  in  by  women  or  boys  ;  the  same  directions  for  weeding  and 
hoeing  being  pursued  in  the  field  as  well  as  the  garden  culture. 

Towards  the  end  of  July  the  early  sorts  will  begin  to  ripen,  and  should 
be  taken  up  as  soon  as  the  stalks  have  withered  down.  In  October  and 
November  the  general  late  crops  will  have  arrived  at  maturity,  and  should 
be  taken  up  as  soon  as  possible  before  severe  frost  sets  in,  as  they  arc 
turned  watery  by  it  and  rendered  unfit  to  eat.  Potatoes  should  always  be 
dug  up  with  a  three-tyned  fork,  being  the  proper  instrument  for  that 
purpose,  made  blunt  and  rounded  at  the  ends. 

Let  potatoes,  as  far  as  possible,  be  dug  in  dry  and  sunny  weather,  as 
they  come  up  very  clean  and  are  ready  to  house  at  once  ;  keep  them  in  a 


The  Cultivation  of  the  Potato.  1 6 1 


dry  place,  and  in  severe  weather  cover  them  well  over  with  a  good  thick- 
ness of  straw.  They  should  from  time  to  time  be  looked  over,  and  such 
as  have  any  tendency  to  decay  ought  to  be  taken  out,  as  they  would  soon 
infect  the  rest. 

Old  decayed  manure  is  the  best  that  can  be  used  in  the  culture  of  the 
potato  ;  coal  ashes  and  burnt  soil,  with  a  little  lime,  are  beneficial  on 
heavy  land.  On  the  coast,  sea-weed,  in  addition  to  other  manures  (or 
separately)  is  dug  in.  The  richer  the  land  is  the  better  the  crop  ;  fresh 
land  may  do  without  the  application  of  manure  at  all.  Potatoes  are  con- 
sidered rather  an  exhausting  crop  to  the  soil,  and  constant  planting  on 
the  same  piece  of  ground  requires  the  aid  of  artificial  means  to  assist  the 
growth  of  the  root. 

The  varieties  of  the  potato  are  very  numerous  :  they  consist  of  two 
kinds,  kidney  potatoes  and  round  potatoes.  These  sorts  differ  in  earliness, 
lateness,  form,  size,  colour  and  quality.  Some  of  these  degenerate  and 
others  improve  when  removed  from  one  district  to  another.  The  new 
plants  are  obtained  from  seed.  Three  years  are  required  to  elapse  before 
the  new  root  is  fully  developed  in  size,  and  its  quality  and  merits  can  be 
properly  discerned.  Few  of  the  early  kinds  of  potatoes  produce  blossom, 
and  to  obtain  seed  from  them  the  plant  should  be  deprived  of  its  tubers, 
and  the  runners  kept  above  ground  by  not  earthing  up.  The  same  sap 
gives  existence  to  both  root  and  apple,  so  that  by  depriving  the  plant  of 
one  it  produces  the  other.  In  addition  to  flowers  and  roots,  some  potatoes 
produce  stem  tubers,  which  are  small  bulbs  appearing  with  the  leaves. 
These,  when  set,  will  yield  potatoes  ;  but  very  few  varieties  do  this.  It  is 
seldom  that  the  root  changes  when  produced  from  the  eye  ;  but  Mr.  Phillips 
informs  us,  in  his  "  Companion  for  the  Kitchen  Garden,''  that  Mr.  Bate, 
when  he  went  with  the  first  settlers  to  Van  Diemens  Land,  took  with  him 
about  half  a  bushel  of  potatoes  for  seed  which  were  all  of  one  kind  ;  and 
to  his  great  surprise  when  they  were  dug  up,  he  had  five  distinct  varieties — 
the  White  Champion,  the  Red  Round,  the  Kidney,  a  small  round  potato, 
and  a  variety  commonly  called  the  Miller's  Thumb.  A  sample  of  each 
was  afterwards  sent  into  a  warmer  climate,  where,  on  being  planted,  they 
all  degenerated  into  one,  the  original  variety." 

Many  interesting  experiments  have  been  made  in  the  cultivation  of  the 
potato  ;  the  following  and  most  recent  is  worthy  of  insertion,  being 
perhaps  also  the  most  novel,  at  the  same  time  highly  profitable  and  simple 
in  its  application. 

Some  few  years  ago  a  friend  of  mine  purchased  some  cuttings  from  a 
wash-leather  mill  (or  wash-leather  waste,  as  it  is  called),  consisting  as  it 
does  of  the  trimmings  and  dust  produced  in  the  making  of  the  leathers. 
In  a  field  previously  well  trenched  but  not  manured,  he  dibbled  the 
potatoes  in  the  ground,  placing  in  each  hole  a  piece  of  the  leather  with 
the  potato,  with  a  small  portion  of  the  dust,  filling  with  soil  in  the  ordi- 
nary way.  The  potato  chosen  for  this  experiment  was  the  common 
"  Early  Shaw  ;"  and  the  result  at  first  sight  seems  almost  incredible. 
Many  of  the  potatoes  weighed  one  and  two  pounds  each,  the  largest  one 
noticed  being  within  an  ounce  of  three  pounds.  Forty  potatoes  could 
easily  be  found  from  a  few  roots  to  fill  a  bushel  measure,  the  largest 
number  of  tubers  on  one  stalk  being  seventy-two,  and,  despite  their  im- 
mense size,  none  were  discovered  hollow  in  the  middle,  nor   on  being 

M 


162 


Kidney  and  Round  Potatoes. 


cooked  was  there  any  bullet-like  appearance  in  the  centre,  so  often  found 
in  large  potatoes. 


Admiral  Lyons. 
Albert  Prince. 
Albion,  early. 
American  climax. 

Ditto      cluster. 

Ditto     white      blos- 
som. 
Ashleaf,  early. 

Ditto,  red. 

Ditto,  royal. 
Ashtop,  fluke. 
Beef. 

Belgian,  fluke. 
Berkshire. 
Betchfield. 
Birmingham     prize- 
taker. 
Black. 

Blue,  farmer. 
Bovinia,  cattle. 
Bresee's  prolific. 
Buckeye. 


Alibone's  seedling. 
American  ditto. 
Betty,  early. 
Black. 
Bread-fruit. 
Carlsbad,  pink. 
Chinese,  early. 
Cockney,  ditto. 
Coldstream,  ditto. 
Dalmahoy. 
Daintree. 

Emperor  of  Russia. 
Engineer. 
Farmer's  glory. 
Flour-ball. 

Ditto,  red. 
Fortyfold. 
Fox's  seedling. 
Frame,  early. 


Kidney  Potatoes. 

Cambridgeshire. 

Cavesham  defiance. 

Champion  of  England. 

Chinese. 

Conqueror. 

Dane's  matchless. 

Egyptian. 

Fluke. 

Fir-apple. 

Giant  king. 

Gloucestershire. 

Golden  blossom. 

Goodrich,  early. 

Holland. 

Imperial. 

Jackson. 

King. 

Lap  stone. 

Long. 

May,  early. 

Mangold  wurtzel, cattle. 


Round  Potatoes. 

Golden  cluster 

Ditto,  eagle. 

Ditto,  globe. 

Ditto,  nut. 

Gold-finder. 
Goffe-castle. 
Hicks'  early. 
j  Hougomont. 
Irish  apple. 

Ditto,  cups. 

Ditto,  lumps,  cattle. 
Jemmy  Brown's  Fancy. 
Kemp. 

Leather  jacket. 
Midsummer,  round. 
Negro. 

Oxford,  early. 
Ox,  noble. 
Peach  blow. 


Milky  white. 

Mona's  pride,  very  early. 

Napoleon. 

Nonpareil. 

Painted  lady. 

Prolific. 

Queen. 

Racehorse,  early. 

Rainham. 

Rose,  very  early. 

Redall. 

Sandringham. 

Serpent. 

Sheeptail. 

Ten  weeks. 

Viglotte,  red. 

Ditto,  white. 
Walnut-leaf. 

Ditto,     black. 

Ditto,     red, 
Waterloo. 


Pink  eye. 
Pine. 

Peel,  Lady. 
Prince  Charley. 
Queen. 
Regent,  red. 
Ring,  early. 
Round. 
Rough,  red. 
Seaward  defiance. 
Scotch,  early. 
Shaw,  early. 
Skerry,  blue. 
Victoria. 
Wellington. 
White  rock. 
Wood's  scarlet. 
York  regent. 
Yorkshire  regent. 


1 63 


Disease  of  the  Potato. 

The  curl  is  a  well-known  disease  amongst  cultivators  of  potatoes,  and 
is  supposed  to  arise,  in  many  cases,  from  using  over-ripe  seed  stock,  or 
seed  that  has  been  improperly  kept  during  the  winter  and  exposed  to  the 
light  and  air,  instead  of  having  been  covered  with  earth,  sand,  or  straw, 
so  as  to  preserve  their  juices ;  or  from  the  want  of  lime  or  salt  upon  the  land, 
and  the  over-application  of  strong  manures,  and  successively  planting  in 
the  same  ground.  All  these  evils  can  be  remedied.  The  disease  which 
has  justly  excited  so  much  attention  is  the  same  as  that  which  has 
been  known  in  South  America  from  time  immemorial,  under  the  name  of 
"  Casaque"  (great  coat),  which  has  been  shown  at  annual  periods,  and 
which  took,  at  one  time,  the  form  of  a  true  calamity.  Considerable  losses 
have  been  sustained  in  Germany,  where  the  epidemic  caused  very  great 
ravages.  The  worst  and  most  general  change  showed  itself  first,  in  1 843, 
in  the  United  States  of  America  and  in  Canada,  and  re-appeared  there 
in  1844. 

The  following  year  it  came  over  to  Europe,  and  there  increased 
rapidly  from  the  20th  of  July  till  the  month  of  October.  It  showed  itself 
successively  in  Germany,  Belgium,  Holland,  France,  England,  and  Ire- 
land, in  which  latter  country  it  increased  with  great  virulence.  From 
Westphalia  it  was  propagated  to  Mecklenburg,  Hanover,  Denmark,  and 
Russia.  The  disease  of  the  potato  appears  generally  in  the  months  of 
July,  August,  September,  and  October  ;  very  few  cases  are  observed  in 
June,  and  scarcely  any  in  May.  A  mild  damp  temperature  always  pro- 
vokes the  development  and  favours  the  progress  of  the  disease.  The 
early  potatoes  generally  escape,  when  we  can  cultivate  them  before  the 
time  the  malady  invades  us.  Towards  the  time  of  maturity,  this  special 
infection  strikes  the  leaves,  passes  through  the  stalk,  and  generally  pene- 
trates to  the  root,  where  the  destruction  is  either  partial  or  total.  The 
external  sign  is  the  withering  of  the  leaf ;  it  presents  a  yellowish  hue,  and, 
under  the  microscope,  small  drops  of  moisture  are  visible  upon  it ;  minute 
brown  spots  then  show  themselves,  the  stalks  become  yellow,  and  soon 
after  spotted  with  brown.  These  changes  are  observable  in  a  single  day. 
We  can  more  easily  distinguish  the  disease  by  dividing  the  potato  ;  when, 
in  the  section,  may  be  seen  numerous  spots  of  a  reddish  hue,  more  or  less 
distinct  towards  the  centre,  scattered  or  in  lines.  The  malady  will  be 
made  more  apparent  by  cooking  in  water  or  steaming  the  potato  which  is 
attacked,  and  when  done,  all  that  part  not  tainted  by  the  red  matter  will 
break  easily  between  the  fingers,  whilst  that  affected,  or  marbled,  will 
resist  the  pressure  and  remain  solid  ;  or  if  a  slice  of  potato  is  put  in  water 
and  remains  there  for  twelve  or  fifteen  days,  the  soundest  part  will  be  the 
first  to  decay,  whilst  that  which  is  affected  will  remain  unchanged.  The 
first  attributed  cause  was  the  inclemency  of  the  weather  ;  a  second,  the 
degeneracy  of  the  root ;  a  third,  a  fungous  insect ;  and  another,  that 
the  disease  is  sown  by  atmospheric  agency.  This  is  the  prevailing  opinion, 
and  that  it  is  a  kind  of  floating  blight,  which  the  wind  wafts  from  place  to 
place ;  this  has  been  observed  to  be  checked  when  coming  in  contact 
with  a  wall  or  hedge.  If  a  fog  or  light  rain  comes  on  during  its  flight,  it 
instantly  settles  on  the  ground  arid  destroys  whatever  it  comes  in  contact 

M   2 


164 


Miscellaneous  Receipts. 


with.  Learned  men  have  stated  that  this  blight  also  attacks  insects  :  and 
give  for  example  the  silkworm.  The  tomato  and  beetroot,  as  well  as 
other  plants,  are  liable  to  the  same  disease. 


Miscellaneous  Receipts 

To  Choose  a  Potato. 

The  finest,  mealiest,  and  most 
nutritious  potatoes  are  always  denser 
and  heavier  than  the  waxy  and 
soft  ones.  If  you  put  potatoes  into 
a  solution  of  salt,  the  inferior  po 


are  soft  enough  to  admit  of  a  fork. 
The  breaking  of  the  skin  is  no  test 
that  the  potato  is  cooked  inside  ; 
pour  off  the  water,  the  moisture  will 
evaporate  and  the  potatoes  will  be 
dry  and  mealy.    You  may  sprinkle  a 


tatoes  will  swim  on  the  surface  and  j  little  saltoverthepotatoeswhen  done, 


the  good  will  sink  to  the  bottom. 
This  trial  never  fails.  Specific  weight 
therefore  is  to  be  considered  in  pur- 
chasing them. 

Barm  or  Yeast  made  of  Potatoes. 

Boil  some  of  the  mealy  sort,  lib. 
for  every  quart  of  yeast  to  be  made, 
till  they  arc  quite  soft.  Skin  and 
mash  them  very  smooth,  mix  as 
much  of  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled  as  will  reduce  them  to 
the  consistency  of  common  yeast, 
but  not  thicker.  To  every  pound  of 
potatoes  add  two  ounces  of  coarse 
sugar  or  treacle,  and  when  lukewarm 
stir  in  for  every  pound  of  potatoes 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  good  new  beer 
yeast ;  keep  it  stirring  and  warm  for 
twenty-four  hours,  or  till  it  has  done 
fermenting,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use 
(but  if  older  the  better).  It  will  keep 
in  bottles  three  months. 

To  Boil  Potatoes. 

Be  careful  in  the  choice  of  the  pota- 
toes that  they  may  be  as  nearly  of  the 
same  size  as  possible,  so  that  they  may 
all  be  equally  cooked.  Wash  them, 
but  do  not  pare  or  cut  them  unless 
very  large;  fill  a  saucepan  half  full,  and 
put  as  much  cold  water  as  will  cover 
them  about  an  inch,  so'  as  to  allow 
for  waste  in  the  boiling,  that  they 
may  be  just  covered  with  water  when 
finished.  Set  them  on  a  moderate 
fire  till  they  boil,  then  set  them  at 
the  side  to  simmer  slowly  till  they 


or  add  a  little  to  the  water  before 
boiling,  and  afterwards  fold  a  napkin 
to  the  size  of  the  saucepan's  diame- 
ter to  keep  them  hot  till  wanted. 
Moderate-sized  potatoes  will  be  done 
in  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  This 
method  of  managing  potatoes  is 
equal  to  steaming,  and  they  are 
dressed  much  more  quickly.  The 
proper  way  to  serve  the  potatoes  is 
in  a  wooden  bowl,  covered  with  a 
cloth. 

New  potatoes  are  insipid  till  they 
are  two  inches  in  diameter  ;  they  are 
cooked  in  a  similar  way  to  the  above, 
with  the  addition  of  a  little  mint 
boiled  in  the  water,  and  served  hot, 
with  a  piece  of  butter  in  the  dish. 
The  best  way  to  clean  them  is  to 
rub  off  the  skin  with  a  coarse  piece 
of  flannel  or  scrubbing  brush. 

Potato  Cheesecakes. 

One  pound  of  mashed  potatoes, 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants, 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and 
butter,  and  four  eggs,  to  be  well 
mixed  together  ;  bake  them  in  patty 
tins,  having  first  lined  them  with  puff 
paste. 

Collar  of  Potatoes. 

Beat  some  potatoes  with  a  little 
mace  and  cream,  or  best  butter  ; 
work  it  up  and  shape  it  like  a  collar, 
leaving  out  a  little  to  make  into 
round  and  oval  balls;  glaze  the  whole 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  bake 
them  of  a  fine  crisp  brown  ;    place 


Miscellaneous  Receipts. 


165 


the  collar  in  the  middle,  and  lay  the 
balls  round  it  ;  make  a  sauce  of 
half  a  pint  of  red  wine,  some  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  up,  with 
a  little  nutmeg  ;  stir  it  gently  on  the 
fire  till  it  is  pretty  thick,  then  pour  it 
about  the  dish. 

Potatoes  Fried  in  Slices. 

Peel  large  potatoes,  slice  them 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  or 
cut  them  into  shavings  as  you  would 
peel  a  lemon  ;  dry  them  well  in  a 
clean  cloth  and  fry  them  in  lard  or 
dripping.  Take  care  that  your  fat 
and  frying  pan  are  quite  clean.  Put 
it  on  a  quick  fire,  and  as  soon  as  the 
lard  boils  and  is  quite  still,  put  in 
the  slices  of  potato  and  keep  mov- 
ing them  until  they  are  crisp,  take 
them  up  and  lay  them  to  drain  on  a 
sieve.  Send  to  table  with  a  very 
little  salt  sprinkled  over  them. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

When  your  potatoes  are  thorough- 
ly boiled  drain  them  quite  dry,  pick 
out  every  speck,  etc.,  and  while  hot 
rub  through  a  colander  into  a  clean 
stewpan  :  to  a  pound  of  potatoes  put 
half  an  ounce  of  butter  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  milk  ;  do  not  make  them 
too  moist,  and  mix  well  together. 

Potatoes  Mashed  with  Cabbage  or 
Spinach. 

Moisten  cold  mashed  potatoes 
with  a  little  white  sauce  ;  take  cold 
cabbage  or  spinach  and  chop  either 
one  very  finely  ;  moisten  them  with 
brown  gravy.  Fill  a  tin  mould  with 
layers  of  potatoes  and  cabbage, 
cover  the  top,  and  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan  of  boiling  water  ;  let  it  remain 
long  enough  to  warm  the  vegetables, 
then  turn  them  out  and  serve  them. 
This  is  a  pretty  dish  for  an  entree. 

Potatoes  Mashed  with  Onions. 

Prepare  some  boiled  onions  by 
putting  them  through  a  sieve,  and 


mix  them  with  potatoes.     Regulate 
the  proportions  according  to  taste. 

Potato  Ragout  Balls. 

Add  to  a  pound  of  potatoes 
(cooked)  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
grated  ham,  or  some  sweet  herbs,  or 
chopped  parsley,  an  onion  or  escha- 
lot, salt,  pepper,  and  a  grated  nut- 
meg and  other  spice,  with  the  yolk 
of  two  eggs.  Make  into  balls,  and 
fry  a  light  brown,  or  bake  them. 

Potato  Pie. 

Peel  and  slice  your  potatoes  very 
thin  into  a  pie-dish  ;  between  each 
layer  of  potatoes  put  a  little  chopped 
onion  (three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of 
onion  is  sufficient  for  a  pound  of  po- 
tatoes), between  each  layer  sprinkle 
a  little  pepper  and  salt,  put  in  a 
little  water,  and  cut  about  two  ounces 
of  fresh  butter  into  little  bits,  and 
lay  them  on  the  top,  cover  it  close 
with  puff  paste.  It  will  take  an  hour 
and  a  half  to  bake  it.  The  yolks  of 
four  eggs  may  be  added,  and  when 
baked  a  tablespoonful  of  good  mush- 
room catsup  poured  in  through  a 
funnel. 

Potato  Pudding. 

Boil  and  peel  half  a  pound  of  po- 
tatoes, and  beat  them  well  in  a 
mortar  with  six  ounces  of  butter, 
six  eggs  (keeping  three  of  the  whites 
out),  and  six  ounces  of  sugar  ;  season 
with  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  a  glass 
of  spirits.  Bake  and  send  it  hot  to 
table. 

Potato  Pudding  under  Meat. 

Boil  and  skin  as  many  potatoes 
as  will  fill  a  dish,  beat  them  and 
mix  in  some  sweet  milk,  give  it  a 
boil  with  a  good  piece  of  butter ; 
season  with  salt,  spices,  and  an 
onion  shred  small,  put  it  in  a  dish  to 
cook  under  roast  beef  or  mutton  till 
it  is  a  fine  brown.  Pour  oft'  the  fat 
before  it  goes  on  the  table.  Two 
beat  eggs  mixed  in  with  the  potatoes 


66 


Miscellaneous  Receipts. 


before   they  are   dished  makes  the 
pudding  rise  and  eat  light. 

Potato  Puffs. 

Take  cold  roast  meat,  either  beef 
or  mutton,  or  veal  or  ham,  clear  it 
from  the  gristle,  cut  it  small,  and 
season  with  either  zest,  or  pepper 
and  salt,  and  cut  pickles.  Mash 
some  boiled  potatoes  and  make  them 
into  a  paste  with  one  or  two  eggs, 
roll  it  out  with  a  dust  of  flour,  cut  it 
round  with  a  saucer,  put  some  of 
your  seasoned  meat  on  one  half  and 
fold  it  over  like  a  puff,  and  fry  a 
light  brown. 

Potato  Cheese  Puffs. 

Take  some  grated  cheese,  some 
cold  mashed  potatoes,  and  a  beat-up 
egg,  with  a  little  butter,  and  mix 
well  together  with  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  ;  put  into  small  patty  pans, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  turn  out, 
and  send  hot  to  table. 

Potato  Salad. 

To  one  pound  of  mashed  potatoes 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beet- 
root mashed ;  when  quite  smooth  add 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  and 
the  same  of  vinegar,  and  pepper  and 
salt ;  also  herbs,  such  as  onions, 
lemon-thyme,  tarragon,  etc.,  chopped 
fine. 

Potato  Scones. 

Mash  boiled  potatoes  till  they  are 
quite  smooth,  adding  a  little  salt, 
then  knead  in  some  flour  or  barley- 
meal  to  the  thickness  required,  toast 
on  the  griddle,  pricking  with  a  fork 
to  prevent  blistering.  When  eaten 
with  fresh  or  salt  butter  they  are 
equal  to  crumpets. 

Scalloped  Potatoes. 

Beat  them  fine  in  a  bowl  with 
some  good  cream,  butter,  a  little 


white  pepper,  and  salt ;  then  put 
them  into  scallop  shells  or  shapes, 
smooth  and  score  them  on  the  top 
with  a  knife,  lay  thin  slices  of  butter 
over  them,and  brown  in  an  oven  or 
before  the  fire.  Three  shapes  are 
sufficient  for  a  dish. 

Snow  Potatoes. 

Pick  out  the  whitest  potatoes,  put 
them  in  cold  water  to  boil;  when 
they  begin  to  crack,  strain,  and  put 
them  in  a  clean  stew-pan  before  the 
fire  till  they  are  quite  dry  and  fall  to 
pieces  ;  rub  them  through  a  wire 
sieve  on  the  dish  they  are  to  be  sent 
up  in,  and  do  not  disturb  them  after- 
wards. 

Potato  Grafting. 

Take  two  potatoes  of  opposite 
natures,  nick  a  wedge-shaped  piece 
out  of  one,  cut  the  other  to  the  shape 
of  the  indenture  and  fix  them  firmly 
one  to  another  with  a  hair-pin  or 
thin  piece  of  wire,  care  being  taken 
to  preserve  one  eye  only  in  each. 

Storing  Potatoes. 

Long  experience  and  inquiry  justify 
us  in  recommending  that  potatoes 
are  best  preserved  if  placed  in  alter- 
nate layers  with  dry  sand  in  a  cold  dry 
cellar  or  outhouse.  On  similar  grounds 
we  recommend  potatoes  to  be  taken 
up  for  storing  during  dry  weather 
immediately  the  leaves  have  died  to 
a  considerable  extent.  Leaving  the 
ripe  tubers  in  the  soil  exposed  to 
vicissitudes  of  temperature  and  wet, 
is  the  most  effective  mode  of  induc- 
ing disease. — Journal  of  Horticul- 
ture. 

To  Preserve  Potatoes  till  Spring. 

Put  a  quantity  of  powdered  char- 
coal in  the  bottom  of  a  potato  bin  ; 
it  will  preserve  their  flavour,  and 
prevent  the  sprouts  from  shooting 
out  so  early  as  they  otherwise  would. 


Cabbage. — Ca  uliflo  wer.  i  6  7 


Cabbage. 

In  season  :  Summer — June  to  August.     Winter — October  and  November. 
Red — July  to  September. 

lib.  of  cabbage  contains — 


Oz. 

Grs. 

Oz. 

Grs. 

Water  .     .     . 

.     .     14 

414 

Dextrin  or  gum. 

0 

20s 

Albumen  .     . 

.     .       0 

126 

Woody  fibre .     . 

0 

35 

Starch  .     .     . 

.     .       0 

42 

Mineral  ashes    . 

0 

56 

Our  cabbage-plants  of  all  kinds — broccoli,  cauliflowers,  cabbages, 
Scotch  and  German  greens,  Brussels  sprouts,  kohl  rabis,  etc.  in  all  their 
varieties — spring  from  one  or  more  species  of  Brassica  Oleracea  which,  in 
their  wild  uncultivated  state,  have  miserable  woody  and  bitter  stems  and 
leaves,  and  useless  spindle-shaped  roots. 

The  word  cabbage,  in  its  original  signification,  means  a  firm  head,  or 
ball  of  leaves  folded  closely  over  each  other  ;  hence  a  cabbage-lettuce,  a 
cabbage-rose.  Cabbages  require  a  soil  enriched  with  animal  manure. 
When  a  cabbage  is  cut  in  the  garden,  the  stalk  left  should  have  two  cuts 
nude  across  each  other  so  as  to  divide  it  into  four ;  sprouts  will  again 
Spring  from  it. 

The  cabbage,  when  decaying,  has  a  peculiarly  strong  smell  of  putrid 
meat,  from  the  large  quantity  of  azote  it  contains  ;  therefore  the  water  in 
which  it  has  been  boiled  should  not  be  poured  down  the  sink,  but  out  of 
doors,  if  possible. 

The  cabbage  is  the  most  nutritious  of  vegetables,  except  the  mush- 
room and  the  dried  cauliflower.  Its  flavour  is  improved  by  boiling,  but  it 
requires  to  be  eaten  with  fat,  in  which  it  is  deficient ;  therefore  fat  bacon 
or  pork  is  quite  the  proper  accompaniment  of  greens. 

A  dish  in  Ireland,  known  as  kolcannon,  is  the  best  and  most  nutri- 
tious mode  of  eating  the  cabbage. 

Koleannoii. 

Equal  quantities  of  potatoes  and  cabbage— peel  the  potatoes  when 
boiled  enough  ;  chop  up  the  cabbage,  beat  both  together  well,  and  put  in 
a  little  pork  fat,  or  dripping,  or  lard — one  ounce  to  a  pound  of  vegetables  ; 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  an  onion  or  two  if  you  like  them.  The 
potato's  want  of  gluten  is  supplied  by  the  cabbage,  which  is  rich  in  it,  and 
a  most  nourishing  dish  is  thus  made. 

Cauliflower. 
In  season  :  June  to  September. 

The  cauliflower,  the  name  of  which  is  supposed  to  be  derived  from 
caulis  (a  stalk),  and  florens  (flowering),  is  a  native  of  Cyprus,  introduced 
in  1694.     It  requires  excessive  care  in  its  culture. 

Broccoli  is  supposed  to  be  a  species  of  the  cauliflower  ;  it  is  in  season 
from  November  to  April. 


J68  Sourkraut. — Fried  Cauliflower. 


Cabbage  is  eaten  by  the  Dutch,  Germans,  and  Americans  as  sourkraut. 

We  give  this  receipt  (American)  for  it  : — 

Have  ready  a  vinegar  or  white  wine  cask.  About  four  inches  from  th<? 
bottom  have  a  vent-peg ;  take  a  number  of  the  best  white  cabbages,  strip 
off  all  the  outside  leaves,  and  slice  the  heads  transversely,  or  across,  as 
thin  as  possible,  until  you  have  as  much  as  you  require,  then  lay  over  the 
bottom  of  the  cask  vine-twigs,  to  the  height  of  the  peg ;  on  these  put  a 
layer  of  sliced  cabbage  three  inches  deep,  strew  it  plentifully  with  fine 
salt ;  use  one  pound  of  salt  to  fifty  of  the  cabbage  ;  then  put  another  layer 
of  cabbage,  and  salt  and  cabbage  alternately  until  the  cask  is  two-thirds 
full  ;  let  the  last  layer  be  of  salt ;  put  cabbage-leaves  all  over  ;  cover  them 
with  a  cloth  and  a  piece  of  wood  which  will  fit  the  inside  of  the  cask,  and 
place  a  heavy  stone  upon  it.  After  four  or  five  days  draw  out  the  peg 
and  let  the  brine  run  off,  rinse  the  cloth,  wash  the  board  and  stone,  add 
more  salt  over  the  top,  and  replace  cloth,  board,  and  weight. 

Repeat  this  operation  at  intervals  of  not  more  than  a  month,  till  that 
which  flows  from  the  cask  is  clear  and  free  from  smell.  Keep  the  cask  in 
a  moderate  temperature  during  the  whole  year.  Take  it  from  the  cask 
with  a  wooden  spoon  or  fork. 

To  Serve  Sourkraut. 

Take  out  as  much  sourkraut  as  you  wish  from  the  cask,  and  soak  it  for 
at  least  two  hours  in  cold  water,  then  put  it  into  a  colander  to  drain  ;  put 
it  into  a  large  stewpan  or  dinner-pot  ;  put  on  it  a  piece  of  corned  pork  or 
bacon,  and  put  hot  water  over  nearly  to  cover  it ;  cover  the  pot  and  set  it 
over  a  moderate  fire  for  an  hour  or  more,  until  the  pork  is  done  ;  serve 
with  the  meat  on  it  ;  or  cut  the  bacon  or  pork  in  slices,  strew  pepper  over 
them,  lay  the  sourkraut  on,  put  hot  water  nearly  to  cover  it,  cover  the  pot 
close,  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Or  it  may  be 
boiled  with  water,  and  fried  sausages  put  over  it  and  served  ;  or  the 
sausages  may  be  boiled  with  it  and  the  skins  taken  oft'  before  serving. 

Fried  Cauliflower  (American). 

Having  laid  a  cauliflower  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  put  it  into  a  pot  of 
hot  water  that  has  been  slightly  salted  (milk  and  water  will  be  still  better), 
and  boil  it  slowly  five  minutes,  or  till  the  stalk  is  perfectly  tender,  then 
divide  it  into  small  tufts,  and  spread  it  on  a  dish  to  cool.  Prepare  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  batter,  made  in  the  proportion  of  a  table-spoonful  of 
flour  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  to  each  egg ;  beat  the  eggs  very 
light,  and  stir  them  into  the  flour  and  milk  alternately  ;  a  spoonful  of  flour 
and  two  spoonfuls  of  milk  at  a  time.  When  the  cauliflower  is  cold,  have 
ready  some  fresh  butter  in  a  frying-pan  over  a  clear  fire.  When  it  has 
come  to  a  boil,  and  has  done  bubbling,  dip  each  tuft  of  cauliflower  twice 
into  the  batter,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown  :  send  them  to  table  hot. 
Broccoli  may  be  fried  in  this  manner. 


I.     Macedoine  of- 'Larks.     3.    BroacLBeansTnashed.   6.    Eop  Tops. 

'.' .     Nettles.  4.    Game  Pie,.  7.     Indian.  Eebobs. 

5 .    Fried,  QailMowers. 


Lentils.  — Peas. — Vliat.  169 


Water 2  105 

Casein 4  70 

Starch .     .     .     ,     .  5  262 

Sugar o  140 


Lentils. 

Constituent  parts  of  ilb. 

Oz.    Grs.  Oz.  Grs. 

Gum i  153 

Fat o  140 

Woody  fibre ...  2  o 

Mineral  matter .     .  o  105 

Lentils  are  but  little  used  in  England  as  vegetables  for  the  table. 

The  French  use  them  for  soup,  and  as  a  broth  with  crusts  of 
bread.  A  pint  and  three  quarters  of  lentils  will  make  a  tureenful  of 
soup.  They  are  simmered  in  pot  liquor  or  stock,  with  carrots,  onions, 
and  cloves,  and  when  done  are  strained  off.  The  broth  is  then  again 
made  hot  and  skimmed.  Crusts  of  bread  are  laid  at  the  bottom  of  the 
tureen. 

The  lentil  is  well  known  to  readers  of  Scripture  as  composing  the 
pottage  for  which  Esau  sold  his  birthright.  It  forms  the  "  Revalenta 
Arabica"  well  known  to  us,  in  the  present  day,  as  a  nutritious  and  di- 
gestible food.  The  lentil  contains  a  great  deal  of  casein,  and  is  very 
nutritious. 

Peas. 

Constituent  parts  of  ilb. 


Water 
Casein 
Starch 

Sugar 


>z. 

Grs. 

2 

112 

3 

324 

5 

403 

0 

140 

Oz.  Grs. 

Gum 1  193 

Fat o  140 

Woody  fibre ...       1  263 

Mineral  matter .     .       o  175 


The  Pea  is  a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe,  and  was  introduced,  it  is 
believed,  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII. 

Green  peas  are  generally  eaten  when  not  more  than  a  quarter  ripe. 
They  should  always  be  used  as  soon  as  possible  after  they  are  gathered, 
as  they  injure  more  by  keeping  than  any  other  vegetable  does. 

They  are  rich  in  flesh-forming  matter,  lib.  containing  30Z.  324 grains 
{see  table  above)  of  casein  or  cheese.  Many  excellent  dishes  are  made 
with  peas — soups,  stews,  etc.  etc.  A  nice  Eastern  dish  made  from  peas  is 
"  Dhal,"  which  will  be  found  a  good  and  nutritious  addition  to  our  English 
bill  of  fare. 

Dhal. 

_  Put  one  pint  of  split-peas  into  one  pint  of  boiling  water  or  pot  liquor  ; 
boil  for  five  hours,  till  they  are  soft  and  pulpy  ;  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
curry-powder,  two  small  onions  cut  up  and  fried,  two  ounces  of  butter,  and 
a  little  cayenne,  and  three  cloves  chopped  fine.  It  is  best  to  boil  the  peas 
some  hours  before  they  are  required,  and  warm  them  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients.    Serve  them  with  rice,  as  you  do  curry. 


*7°  Beans. — Succatash. 


Beans. 

In  season  :  Broad-beans — June  to  August.      French — June  to  August. 
Scarlet-runners — July  to  September. 

The  Bean  is  said  to  be  a  native  of  Egypt,  and  is  supposed  to  have 
been  brought  to  England  by  the  Romans. 

The  dwarf  Kidney-bean  is  a  native  of  India,  and  was  introduced  about 
the  time  of  Gerrard. 

The  Scarlet-runner  is  a  native  of  South  America,  and  was  introduced 
into  England  in  1633,  when  it  was  considered  a  flower,  or  ornamental 
plant,  and  was  cultivated  in  the  flower-garden  only.  The  kidney-bean  and 
scarlet-runner  differ  from  other  leguminous  vegetables  in  the  pods  of  all 
kinds  being  eaten. 

The  Americans  make  an  excellent  dish  called  Succatash  from  the 
bean.  As  our  book  is  designed  for  possible  emigrants  as  well  as  home- 
readers,  we  give  two  receipts  for  making  it. 

Take  one  quart  of  dried  sweet  corn  to  one  or  two  of  beans.  Put  the  beans 
to  soak  in  a  basin,  with  water  to  cover  them  ;  rinse  the  corn  in  cold  water 
and  put  them  in  a  basin  with  water  to  cover  it,  let  them  remain  until  the 
next  day  ;  within  two  hours  of  dinner-time  pour  the  water  from  the  beans, 
pick  out  any  imperfections,  and  put  them  with  the  corn,  with  the  water  in 
which  it  is  soaked,  into  a  dinner-pot  ;  cut  a  pound  of  nicely  corned  pork 
in  thin  slices,  put  it  to  the  corn  and  beans,  and  put  over  them  hot  water, 
rather  more  than  to  cover  them  ;  add  a  very  small  red  pepper  or  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  cayenne,  and  cover  the  pot  close  ;  set  it  where  it  will  boil  very 
gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  put  it  in  a  deep  dish ;  add  a  bit  of 
butter  to  it,  and  serve. 

The  pork  may  be  scored  and  not  cut  up,  if  preferred,  and  served  in  a 
separate  dish.  Dried  corn  and  beans  may  be  soaked  and  cooked  in  this 
manner,  without  the  pork  ;  when  taken  up,  add  plenty  of  sweet  butter, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve.  Lima  beans  are  the  best  ;  the 
small  white  kidney-bean  next. 

Beans  and  Indian  Corn  called  Succatash. 

Take  the  husks  and  silk  from  a  dozen  ears  of  Indian  corn,  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  the  kernels  from  the  cob  ;  scrape  gently  what  remains  on 
the  cob  with  a  knife  blade  ;  string  a  quart  or  more  of  green  beans,  and  cut 
them  in  inch  lengths  or  shorter,  wash  them  and  put  them  to  the  corn  ; 
put  them  with  the  corn  into  a  stewpan,  add  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  or 
water,  cover  it  close,  and  let  them  boil  rather  gently  for  three  quarters  of 
an  hour ;  then  add  a  teacup  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper ;  stir  them  well  together ;  cover  it  for  ten  minutes  ; 
take  the  beans  and  corn  into  a  dish,  with  more  or  less  of  the  liquid,  as  may 
be  liked.  This  dish  may  be  made  without  butter,  by  substituting  half  a 
pound  of  nicely-corned  fat  pork,  washed  in  cold  water,  and  cut  in  thin 
slices.  No  other  salt  is  required.  As  we  have  said  before,  Lima  beans 
and  sweet  corn  make  the  finest  succatash. 


The  Turnip  and  Carrot  171 


Preserving  French  Beans. 

"Procure  a  large  stone  jar  or  a  glazed  earthenware  pan  with  a  lid,  such 
as  is  employed  for  pickling  pork,  and  put  the  beans  in  it  as  they  are 
gathered,  avoiding  those  which  are  too  young,  as  well  as  those  which  are 
too  old.  They  should  be  gathered  when  dry,  and  laid  in  the  pan  or  jar  in 
layers  two  or  three  inches  in  thickness.  Over  each  layer  put  sufficient 
salt  to  fill  up  the  space  between  the  pods,  and  leave  them  just  covered. 
As  each  layer  is  put  in,  it  must  be  pressed  down,  and  a  piece  of  clean 
board  that  will  fit  the  vessel  should  be  laid  over  them,  and  a  heavy  weight 
put  upon  it  to  keep  the  beans  underneath  the  brine.  The  board  can,  of 
course,  be  easily  removed  when  a  fresh  layer  is  added.  By  this  simple 
method  I  have  supplied  families  throughout  the  winter  with  beans  scarcely 
inferior  in  flavour  to  those  just  gathered  in  the  summer,  but  better  than  those 
grown  in  a  forcing-house.  Previous  to  using,  they  must  be  soaked  in 
water  for  two  or  three  hours,  and  then  sliced  up  with  a  knife  in  the  ordi- 
nary way." — Gardeners'  Magazine, 

Broad  Beans  Mashed. 

Boil  some  old  broad  beans  for  one  hour,  mash  them  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  and  mix  with  them  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Put  the  mash 
into  a  hot  basin  or  mould,  and  turn  it  out  before  serving.    {See  plate.) 

The  Turnip. 

In  season  :  May  to  July, 
lib.  of  Turnips  contains — 

Oz.  Grs.  Oz.  Grs. 

Gum o     107 


Woody  fibre    ...     o     168 
Mineral  ashes     .     .     o      35 


Water 14    213 

Albumen  and  Casein     o       77 
Sugar o     280 

Fibre  less   indigestible   than  carrot-fibre. 

The  Turnip — a  root — is  equal  in  nutritive  qualities  to  Indian-corn 
meal,  being  only  different  in  fat  ;  therefore  fat  meat  should  be  eaten  with 
turnips. 

It  succeeds  best  in  a  dry,  sandy,  or  gravelly  soil. 

The  turnip  is  a  native  of  England.  It  is  eaten  with  boiled  beef  01 
boiled  mutton. 

The  Carrot. 


In  season  :  May  to  March. 

lib.  of  Carrots  contains— 

Oz.  Grs. 

Water 14      o 

Albumen o    42 

Sugar 1     11 

Fat o     14 

The  large  and  juicy  Altringham  carrot  is  the  woody  root  of  the  wild 


Oz.  Grs, 
Gum ......    o      70 

Woody  fibre    ...     o     231 
Mineral  matter    .     .     o       70 


1 7  2  Parsnip. — Red  Beet.  — Asparagus. 

carrot,  Daucus  carota,  highly  cultivated.  It  is  very  nutritious.  The 
carrot  is  a  native  of  England. 

Carrots  are  used  with  boiled  beef  or  mutton. 

Carrot  soup,  known  as  Cressy  soup,  and  carrot  pudding  are  both  ex- 
cellent. Carrot  jam  is  so  good  that  we  think  it  worth  while  to  give  a 
receipt  for  it. 

Boil  a  few  carrots  quite  tender,  rub  them  through  a  colander,  after- 
wards through  a  sieve,  and  to  I  lb.  of  pulp  add  I  lb.  of  lump  sugar,  boil  it 
to  a  jam,  and  when  nearly  cold  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  (strained 
from  the  seeds),  and  the  rinds  grated  very  fine,  to  that  quantity  of  pulp. 
Choose  deep-coloured  carrots  for  this  jam. 

The  Parsnip. 

In  season  :  November  to  April. 

More  nutritive  than  turnip  or  carrot. 

lib.  of  Parsnip  contains — 
Oz.    Grs. 


Water 13  S3 

Albumen  and  Casein  o  87 

Sugar o  210 

Starch o  245 


Oz.   Grs. 
Fat   ......    o      35 

Gum o       52 

Woody  fibre    .     .     .     1     123 
Ashes o       70 


The  Parsnip  requires  the  same  culture  as  the  turnip.  It  is  very  seldom 
sent  to  table,  except  with  salt  fish  on  fast  days  ;  but  it  is  really  an  excel- 
lent vegetable. 

Parsnip  fritters  make  a  capital  dish.     A  native  English  plant. 

The  Red  Beet 

(In  season  :  all  the  year  through) 

Is  a  native  of  the  seacoast  of  the  South  of  Europe,  and  was  introduced  in 
1656.  It  contains  a  great  amount  of  sugar  juice,  which  has  long  been 
manufactured  into  sugar.     lib.  contains — 


Oz.    Grs. 

Oz.    Grs 

Water 13     124 

Woody  fibre    .     . 

.     0     210 

Sugar 1     262 

Gum 

.     0      70 

Albumen  and  Casein     0     140 

Mineral  matter    . 

.     0      70 

Beetroot  is  ready  for  the  table  in  September  or  October.  In  taking 
them  up  and  in  boiling  them  great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  wound  the 
outer  skin,  for  if  it  is  scraped  and  broken  all  the  colouring  matter  will 
escape,  and  the  root  will  be  of  a  dull  dingy  pinkish  white,  instead  of  its  own 
rich  red. 

Asparagus. 

An  excellent  vegetable,  very  nourishing  and  digestible.  It  is  a  native 
British  plant,  and  grows  wild  in  many  parts  of  England  and  Scotland, 


Artichoke.  — Rhubarb. — Onion.  1 7  3 

though,  of  course,  the  wild  plant  is  wonderfully  inferior  to  the  tenderly 
nurtured  and  expensive  garden  asparagus. 

Artichoke. 

Also  a  delicate  and  nourishing  vegetable,  a  native  of  Italy,  introduced 
in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII. 

Sea-kale. 

Sea-kale  was  discovered  and  brought  into  general  use  about  a  hundred 
years  ago  by  Dr.  Lettsom,  a  celebrated  physician  and  botanist.  He  hap- 
pened to  find  some  plants  pushing  themselves  up  through  the  sand  on  the 
coast  near  Southampton,  and  on  inquiry  found  that  the  country-people 
had  long  been  in  the  habit  of  boiling  the  shoots  and  eating  them.  The 
doctor  tasted  them,  and  thought  them  so  good  that  he  sent  some  seed  to 
his  friend  Mr.  Curtis,  the  originator  of  the  Botanical  Magazine,  who  had 
a  nursery  garden  in  Lambeth  Marsh.  Mr.  Curtis  wrote  a  book  on  "  Sea 
Kale/'  which  brought  it  into  notice,  and  he  sold  the  seed  at  high  prices. 
The  fisherman's  weed  is  now  a  dainty  for  rich  tables. 

Rhubarb. 

The  Rhubarb  used  for  making  spring  tarts  and  puddings  is  the  foot-stalk 
of  the  leaf  of  the  rhubarb  plant,  a  native  of  Asia,  introduced  in  1 573.  Several 
kinds  are  now  grown  in  England.  It  is  a  very  useful  plant,  as  it  takes  the 
flavour  of  any  fruit  boiled  with  it,  and  thus  will  help  to  make  jams  and 
marmalades  cheaply.  For  example,  if  mixed  with  raspberries  it  will  take 
their  flavour,  or  with  oranges,  it  will  help  diminish  the  expense  oiftulp  for 
marmalade.  It  makes  a  good  marmalade  (with  almonds  and  lemon  juice) 
itself,  (see  "  Model  Cookery,")  and  is  wholesome  boiled  in  milk. 

Leeks. 

In  season  :  Autumnal  months. 

The  Leek  is  a  native  of  Switzerland.  It  is  the  badge  of  Wales,  and 
worn  in  honour  of  St.  David  on  his  day. 

Chives 
Are  native  plants  of  Britain. 

Shallot,  Garlic,  and  the  Onion, 

Onion  in  season  :   Yottng— May  and  June  ;  stored— August  to  October. 

A  native  of  the  south  of  Europe,  introduced  before  the  time  of  Henry 
VIII.  The  Shallot  is  a  native  of  Palestine  ;  it  has  been  cultivated  in  Eng- 
land as  long  as  the  leek.  It  possesses  a  strong  and  fetid  oil  in  it  called 
oil  of  garlic,  which  is  much  disliked  in  our  country. 

The  Onion  is  remarkably  nutritious.  The  dried  onion-root  contains  from 


Horseradish. — The  Lettuce. 


twenty-five  to  thirty  per  cent,  of  gluten.  Burnt  onions  are  the  best  for 
flavouring  and  colouring  made  dishes  and  soups.     The  onion  keeps  well. 

It  has  a  strong  and  unpleasant  smell,  arising  from  an  oil  in  it  called 
garlic  oil  (it  is  still  stronger  in  garlic),  which  is  retained  for  a  long  time  in 
the  breath  after  swallowing  it  in  onion  or  garlic.  It  exudes  from  the  pores 
of  the  skin  in  garlic  eaters,  giving  them  a  strong  scent  of  it,  familiar  to 
travellers  in  Spain,  Egypt,  Malta,  etc.  The  common  onion  will  scent  a 
steel  knife  and  convey  the  taste  of  the  garlic  oil  also  to  any  substance  cut 
by  it. 

The  onion  is  used  much  in  cookery  by  ourselves,  and  to  a  certain  ex- 
tent raw  ;  it  is  the  common  food  of  the  Portuguese,  Spaniards,  Arabs,  and 
North  African  people,  and  being  very  nutritive  takes  with  them  the  place 
of  the  English  labourer's  cheese  with  their  bread. 

The  onion  was  an  object  of  worship  of  the  ancient  Egyptians,  and  is 
still  excellent  upon  the  banks  of  the  Nile. 

The  onion  is  a  compound  of  sulphur  and  allyle,  which  exercise  a  cer- 
tain action  on  the  system  favourable  to  its  general  comfort.  It  is  thought 
that  the  onion  promotes  sleep,  and  is  a  good  cure,  put  hot  into  the  ear,  for 
earache. 

Horseradish. 

We  mention  this  plant  next,  because  it  contains  the  same  peculiar 
principle  as  the  onion — allyle,  combined  with  sulphur  and  a  substance 
called  by  chemists  cyanogen.  This  substance  depriving  the  garlic  oil  of 
its  horrid  smell,  leaves  a  different  odour,  though  still  a  pungent  one. 

Horseradish  is  used  as  a  condiment,  either  scraped  or  in  sauce,  with 
roast  beef  or  boiled  hen  pheasant  (see  Warne's  "  Model  Cookery  ").  The 
sticks  of  horseradish,  when  taken  up,  can  be  kept  in  sand  in  an  outhouse 
or  cellar  till  wanted. 

The  Lettuce. 

In  season  :  April  to  October  ;  Greek  Lettuce — all  the  year. 

The  Lettuce  is  said  to  have  been  introduced  into  England  in  1562,  but 
from  what  country  is  unknown.  Various  kinds  from  Maryland  are  now 
possessed  by  us.    It  possesses  in  its  juice  a  species  of  opium. 

If  the  stem  of  the  lettuce  when  it  is  coming  into  flower  be  wounded 
with  a  knife,  a  milky  fluid  appears.  In  the  open  air  it  soon  grows  brown 
and  dries  ;  its  smell  resembles  opium  and  is  narcotic.  It  has  a  pungent 
bitter  taste,  and  acts  like  opium. 

The  principal  ingredient  in  it  is  said  to  be  a  substance  called  Lactucine, 
of  which  the  extract  contains  about  one-fourth  of  its  weight.  The  juice 
is  called  Lactucarium.  It  exists,  of  course,  in  all  lettuce  leaves  ;  there- 
fore a  salad  has  narcotic  and  soothing  properties.  Eaten  at  night,  it 
induces  sleep  ;  by  day  it  calms  the  nervous  system.  Lettuce  is  therefore 
a  valuable  article  of  food. 


The  Radish. — Spinach. — Herbs.  *  7  5 


The  Radish. 

In  season  :  Long — April  and  May  ;  Turnip — June  and  July. 

Is  a  native  of  China,  and  was  introduced  into  England  before  1584. 
There  are  numerous  varieties  ;  the  long  Japan  radish  is  the  last.  In  a 
degree  the  radish  possesses  the  oil  of  the  horseradish  ;  this  gives  it  its 
pungent  quality,  which  stimulates  the  stomach  and  helps  it  to  digest  other 
food. 

Spinach. 

In  season  :  Spring — April  to  June  ;   Winter — November  to  December. 

Spinach  is  a  nice  vegetable  ;  the  Flanders  kind  is  the  best.  It  is 
valuable  as  producing  both  a  summer  and  a  winter  crop.  Of  the  winter 
crop  only  the  outer  leaves  should  be  gathered,  and  it  will  continue  to  pro- 
duce fresh  ones  for  many  months. 

Cresses. 

Both  water  and  land  cress  are  very  wholesome,  because  anti-scorbutic. 
They  are  not  nourishing,  but  they  cool  and  freshen  the  blood.  Land  cress 
possesses  the  same  pungent  volatile  oil  peculiar  to  the  horseradish  and 
radish. 

Sorrel. 

An  acid  leaved  root,  little  used  in  England,  but  an  excellent  anti- 
scorbutic. To  stew  sorrel,  wash  it  and  leave  its  leaves  a  little  wet ;  put  it 
with  no  other  water  into  a  stone  jar,  and  let  it  simmer  as  slowly  as  pos- 
sible.    When  done,  add  a  piece  of  butter  and  beat  it  well. 

Pot  Herbs, 

Parsley  is  a  hardy  biennial,  a  native  of  Sardinia,  introduced  in  1548. 
It  may  be  gathered  for  drying  in  May,  June,  and  July. 

Tarragon  is  a  strong-smelling  perennial  from  Siberia  ;  introduced 
before  1548.     It  may  be  gathered  for  drying  in  June,  July,  and  August. 

Fennel  is  a  perennial  which  when  it  once  grows  in  a  garden  can 
scarcely  be  got  out  of  the  soil.  Fennel  may  be  gathered  for  drying  in 
May,  June,  and  July. 

Sweet  Herbs, 

Thyme  and  Lemon  Thyme  are  natives  of  the  South  of  Europe,  intro- 
duced before  1548.  They  will  dry  for  keeping,  and  should  be  gathered  for 
that  purpose  about  the  end  of  July  or  August. 

Sage  is  a  much  taller  plant.  It  is  a  native  of  the  South  of  Europe, 
and  was  introduced  in  1597.  It  maybe  gathered  for  drying  in  August 
and  September.     Sage  leaves  rubbed  on  the  teeth  clean  them  pleasantly. 

Mint. — There  are  three  kinds  of  Mint— the  common  or  spearhead,  used 
for  mint-sauce,  boiling  with  peas,  dried,  etc.  The  pepper-mint  is  only- 
used  for  distilling,  like  the  penny-royal.  They  are  all  British  perennials. 
Mint  may  be  gathered  for  drying  in  June  and  July. 


176  Endive. —  Gourds. — Pumpkin  Soup. 

Marjoram. — There  are  four  kinds  :  the  Pot  Marjoram,  a  native  of 
Sicily,  introduced  in  1759.  The  Sweet  or  Knotted  Marjoram,  a  hardy- 
biennial ;  a  native  of  Portugal,  introduced,  about  1573,  and  sown  every 
year  from  French  seed.  The  Winter  Marjoram,  a  native  of  Germany,  in- 
troduced 1640  ;  and  the  Common  Marjoram,  a  native  of  Britain.  Knotted 
marjoram  may  be  gathered  for  drying  in  July. 

Savory. — Winter  and  Summer  Savory  are  natives  of  the  South  of 
Europe,  and  have  been  cultivated  in  Britain  since  1650.  Summer  savory 
may  be  gathered  for  drying  at  the  end  of  July  and  August.  Winter  savory 
at  the  same  time. 

Basil  is  an  annual,  a  native  of  the  East  Indies,  introduced  in  1548. 
All  herbs  should  be  gathered  in  the  sunshine,  or  at  least  on  a  very  dry 
day.  They  should  be  dried  immediately  by  the  heat  of  a  stove  or  Dutch 
oven,  the  leaves  picked  off  and  bottled  at  once. 

Jerusalem  Artichoke. 

The  Jerusalem  Artichoke  is  a  tuberous-rooted  sunflower,  a  native 
of  Brazil.  The  name  "  Jerusalem "  is  only  a  corruption  of  the  word 
"  Girasole,"  signifying  to  turn  to  the  sun,  as  is  the  habit  of  the  plant. 
Its  tubers  are  dry  in  September  or  October.     It  was  introduced  in  17 16. 

Endive. 

Endive  is  a  native  of  China  and  Japan,  introduced  in  1548.  It  is 
blanched  by  having  the  leaves  tied  over  the  hearts  with  strands  of  bast 
mat  or  twigs.  There  are  two  kinds,  the  broad-leaved  or  Batavian 
endive,  and  the  Curled,  which  is  the  most  common. 

Gourds. 

Gourds  are  all  of  a  very  watery  nature,  and  are  consequently  chiefly 
of  use  (like  fruit)  for  cooling  the  system.  At  the  same  time,  the  pumpkin 
has  long  taken  its  place  as  a  useful  vegetable  ;  it  is  good  also  in  pies  and 
as  a  preserve,  and  is  much  eaten  in  America.  Here  is  an  American  re- 
ceipt for  a  pumpkin  pie  : — Cut  up  a  nice  cheese  pumpkin,  take  out  the 
seeds  and  stringy  inside,  pare  off  the  rind,  and  cut  the  pumpkin  small  ; 
then  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  teacupful  of  water  ;  cover  the  vessel, 
and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  until  the  pumpkin  is  soft  enough  to  mash  when 
lightly  pressed.  Press  it  through  a  sieve  or  colander  with  a  wooden  spoon. 
When  it  is  rubbed  through,  add  enough  milk  to  make  it  into  a  thin  batter, 
and  to  every  quart  of  this  batter  put  four  well-beaten  eggs.  Add  a  small 
teacup  of  sugar  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt  for  each  quart.  Grate  in  a  nutmeg 
and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  lemon,  or  some  ginger  if  preferred.  Line 
a  pie-dish  with  crust,  fill  with  the  mixture  ;  lay  a  strip  of  paste  round  the 
edge,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Pumpkin- 
pie  may  be  made  in  the  same  way  without  eggs,  but  it  is  less  delicate. 

The  Vegetable  Marrow,  the  American  Butter  Squash,  and  the  Mam- 
moth Gourd  are  excellent  for  the  table  either  in  soup,  boiled,  or  fried. 

Pumpkin  Soup. 

Peel  the  pumpkin  and  cut  it  in  pieces  ;  take  away  the  seeds.  Boil  it 
in  boiling  water  and  salt  till  it  will  pulp  through  a  strainer.     Melt  a  piece 


Cucumber. — Tomato.  177 


of  butter  with  a  wineglass  of  milk  ;  add  to  it  the  pulp  when  passed  through 
the  strainer,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  pinch  of  flour.  Let  it 
simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  thicken  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  serve. 

Pumpkin  with  Cheese. 

Peel,  slice,  and  stew  a  pumpkin  ;  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  fry  it  in  two 
ounces  of  butter ;  grate  cheese  over  it,  add  a  little  butter,  brown  with  a 
salamander. 

Cucumber. 

In  season  :  Forced—  March  to  June  ;  open  air — July  to  September. 
Neither  heat-giving  nor  flesh-forming. 


lib. 

contains 

Oz. 

Grs. 

Oz.  Grs. 

Water   .    .    . 

.     15 

173 

Chlorophyl     .     . 

0        7 

Albumen    .     . 

0 

14 

Woody  fibre  .     . 

0      35 

Glucose     .     . 

0 

140 

Mineral  matter   . 

0      35 

Gum      .     .     . 

0 

35 

A  cool  and  pleasant  vegetable,  delightful  in  hot  climates  from  the 
quantity  of  water  it  contains,  but  considered  unwholesome.  It  is  eaten 
with  the  richest  fish— salmon — as  a  corrective,  probably. 

Tomato,  or  Love  Apple. 

A  tender  annual,  a  native  of  South  America,  introduced  before  1596. 
This  vegetable  is  used  chiefly  for  flavouring  sauces  ;  for  that  purpose 
it  is  invaluable.  It  makes  'also  an  excellent  supper  dish  scalloped, 
fresh  tomatoes,  bread  crumbs,  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt  being 
all  that  is  required.  Put  the  tomatoes,  cut  in  pieces,  into  scallop  shells, 
cover  them  with  bread  crumbs,  a  slice  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Send 
them  up  hot. 

Tomatoes  make  good  sauces,  vinegar,  etc.  For  receipts  for  otherwise 
using  them,  see  "  Model  Cookery." 

The  tomato  is  one  of  the  most  wholesome  as  well  as  the  most  universally 
liked  of  all  vegetables.  Its  healthful  qualities  do  not  depend  on  the  mode 
of  preparation  for  the  table.  It  may  be  eaten  thrice  a  day,  cold  or  hot, 
cooked  or  raw,  alone  or  with  salt  and  pepper  or  vinegar,  or  all  together, 
with  like  advantage,  and  in  the  utmost  quantity  which  can  be  taken 
with  an  appetite.  Its  wholesome  quality  arises  from  its  slight  acidity, 
making  it  as  valuable?  perhaps,  as  cherries,  berries,  currants,  and  other 
similar  fruits.  The  tomato  season  ends  with  the  frost.  If  the  vines  are 
pulled  up  before  the  frost  comes,  and  hung  up  in  a  well-ventilated  cellar, 
with  the  tomatoes  hanging  to  them,  the  "  love  apple  "  will  continue  ripen- 
ing until  Christmas.  The  cellar  should  not  be  too  dry,  nor  too  warm,  nor 
too  close.  The  knowledge  of  this  may  be  improved  to  great  practical 
advantage  for  the  benefit  of  many  who  are  invalids,  and  who  are  fond  of 
the  tomato. 

N 


1 7  8  Wild  Plants  and  Berries. 


Tomatoes  and  Eggs, 

Parboil  one  pound  of  tomatoes  and  pass  them  through  a  sieve ;  put  six 
well-beaten  eggs  into  a  frying-pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  fry  them 
for  one  minute ;  then  add  the  tomatoes  with  a  little  salt  and  Cayenne 
pepper.  Stir  the  whole  together  and  fry  it  for  about  two  minutes,  and 
serve. 

Chicory,  or  the  Wild  Endive. 

The  Chicory  is  one  of  our  native  weeds  ;  it  grows  in  the  calcareous  or 
sandy  soils  of  England,  has  a  large  pale  blue  flower  and  a  white  parsnip- 
like tap  root,  which  grows  of  good  size  when  the  plant  is  cultivated.  This 
root  has  a  bitter  juice.  It  is  cultivated  in  Surrey,  Bedfordshire  and  York- 
shire, and  in  Germany,  Belgium  and  France. 

The  root  is  dug  up  before  the  plant  flowers  ;  it  is  washed,  sliced,  dried 
and  roasted  till  it  is  of  a  chocolate  colour.  Two  pounds  of  lard  are 
roasted  with  each  cwt.  It  makes  in  water  a  sweetish-bitter  beverage,  not 
unwholesome. 

The  way  to  detect  the  unauthorized  mixture  of  chicory  with  coffee  is  to 
put  the  powder  in  cold  water,  which  (if  there  is  chicory  with  it)  it  will 
colour  more  or  less  according  to  the  quantity.  Pure  coffee  will  not  colour 
cold  water. 

Chicory  makes  an  excellent  winter  salad.  For  this  purpose  it  is  taken 
up  in  October  or  November,  and  stacked  in  cellars  with  alternate  layers 
of  sand,  so  that  the  crowns  of  the  plants  just  show  along  the  ridge.  If 
the  frost  be  carefully  excluded  the  roots  will  here  soon  send  forth  a  profu- 
sion of  tender,  succulent  leaves,  which,  if  kept  from  the  light,  will  be  quite 
blanched. 

WILD    PLANTS    AND    BERRIES. 

Hips. — Made  into  Jam. — The  hip  is  the  large  red  berry,  or  seed,  of 
the  hedge  or  dog-rose.  Gather  hips  when  ripe.  Boil  them  in  water  till 
they  will  pulp  through  a  very  fine  sieve.  Take  an  equal  weight  of  sugar 
to  that  of  fruit,  boil  the  hip  pulp  with  the  same  quantity  of  sugar 
thoroughly,  as  for  any  other  jam.  Fill  a  stone  jar  three-parts  full  with 
this  jam  ;  it  is  liable  to  ferment  and  requires  space. 

When  used  mix  it  well  with  a  wineglass  of  white  wine,  and  add  sugar 
if  required. 

This  jam  is  very  good. 

Charlock  is  a  common  weed  in  cornfields.  It  much  resembles  mus- 
tard ;  the  young  sprouts  make  excellent  greens. 

The  Nettle  gathered  in  early  spring  is  excellent.  It  is  a  very  nutritious 
vegetable.  It  should  be  cut  before  it  shows  any  flowers,  for  after  bloom- 
ing it  becomes  stringy.  It  is  served  on  toast  like  spinach,  or  pressed  into 
a  tin  mould  in  the  shape  of  a  large  leaf.  (See  plate.)  To  dress  Nettles  they 
must  be  well  washed  and  picked,  then  put  them  into  a  very  large  saucepan 
with  just  sufficient  water  to  prevent  their  burning,  sprinkling  in  a  wooden 
spoonful  of  salt     Press  them  down  with  a  large  spoon,  and  when  they  are 


./.    Iced  Pudding. 
2.   Biscuit  /W///////S' 


3.  Apple  Love  kiwis. 
■I.  Floating  Islands. 
5 .    Tomatoes  &-  Fogs. 


6.  Hum  hi  I'd    lidt/s. 

7.  Broiled  Lobster. 


Wild  Phi7its  and  Berries.  179 


quite  done  drain  them  in  a  colander,  and  chop  them  up  very  fine.  Mix 
them  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  pepper,  put 
them  into  a  stewpan  and  make  them  very  hot,  press  them  into  a  tin,  leaf- 
shape.     (These  shapes  can  be  purchased  at  any  tin-shop.) 

Utility  of  Nettles. — Steel  dipped  in  the  juice  of  the  nettle  becomes 
flexible.  Lint  dipped  in  nettle  juice  will  stop  bleeding  of  the  nose  if  ap- 
plied to  the  nostril. 

Its  seeds  are  said  to  be  a  remedy  for  goitre. 

Nettles  are  very  good  for  young  chickens  ;  plenty  should  be  left  within 
their  range. 

The  Hop. — Constituents  :  Lupulin — volatile  oil— narcotic — aromatic 
resin.— The  hop  plant  was  brought  into  England  from  the  Low  Coun- 
tries in_  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.,  about  1524.  It  is  now  extensively 
cultivated  in  England,  Belgium,  and  the  United  States.  The  best  Eng- 
lish hops  are  the  Worcestershire  and  Herefordshire  for  pale  ale  ;  the 
Sussex  and  Mid- Kent  are  the  strongest. 

The  active  principle  of  the  hop  is  a  bitter  resinous  matter  called 
lupulin,  and  also  an  essential  oil,  both  of  which  act  on  the  nervous 
system.  They  prevent  beer  from  decomposing  and  turning  acid.  Hops 
are  gathered  by  the  hand  in  September  and  October,  rapidly  dried  in  a 
kiln,  and  closely  packed  in  pockets  or  bags. 

Hops  have  long  been  celebrated  for  their  narcotic  virtues,  and  to  the 
wakeful  invalid  a  hop  pillow  has  often  brought  refreshing  sleep.  The 
effect  is  produced  by  the  escape  of  the  volatile  narcotic  ingredient  which 
is  contained  in  the  oil. 

Hop-tops  are  a  capital  vegetable. 

Hop-tops.— The  young  shoots  of  hop  are  excellent  served  as  aspara- 
gus. Break  off  the  young  shoots,  tie  them  in  bundles,  and  boil  them  in  a 
little  pot  liquor  for  twenty  minutes.  They  are  served  like  asparagus 
with  melted  butter.     (See  plate.) 

The  Wild  Hop  may  be  dressed  in  the  same  way  and  is  good,  but  has 
a  slightly  bitter  flavour. 

BuRDOCH.— The  stalks  of  this  wild  plant  are  very  good  cooked  as 
asparagus. 

The  Common  Arum  (lords  and  ladies)  has  a  tuberous  whitish  root 
about  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Dried  and  pounded  it  is  sent  to  London 
from  the  Isle  of  Portland  (where  it  is  dug  up  by  the  country  people)  as 
Portland  sago.  Arum  root  is  saponaceous  and  will  clean  woollen  well ;  it 
is  also  used  as  a  cosmetic  ;  the  "  Cypress  Powder  "  used  in  Paris  is  made 
from  it. 

The  Early  Purple  Orchis.— The  tuber  of  this  plant  is  remarkably 
farinaceous  and  nutritive.  An  ounce  of  it  dried,  mixed  with  an  ounce  of 
soup  stock,  is  said  to  be  sufficient  for  the  day's  food  of  a  working  man. 
Put  into  milk  it  will  prevent  it  from  turning  sour. 

The  tuber  is  prepared  for  use  by  washing,  brushing  off  the  brown  skin, 
and  roasting  it  on  a  tin  plate  in  an  oven  from  six  to  ten  minutes.  It  is 
then  placed  to  dry  gradually  in  moderate  heat. 

Borage.— All  parts  of  this  plant  contain  much  mucilage.  The  stem 
and  leaves  contain  nitrate  of  potassia  and  other  saline  qualities.  It  is 
very  cooling,  and  a  tonic.  It  is  a  wild  plant  with  a  beautiful  blue 
flower.     It  is  used  in  making  "  cups  "  of  different  kinds.     Nothing  can 

N    2 


i  So  The  Common  Mushroom. 

took  prettier  than  the  borage  with  its  lovely  blue  flowers  lying  on  the  top 
of  a  cider  cup.     It  grows  in  gardens  to  a  good  height. 

Sea  Holly  or  eringo  root  is  found  on  the  sea  shore.  It  is  prickly,  has 
dry  horny  leaves,  and  is  of  a  bluish  hue.  The  Swedes  eat  the  young 
shoots  as'  asparagus.  Candied,  it  is  sold  at  chemists'  shops,  and  is  very 
strengthening. 

Dandelion. — This  weed  is  used  for  making  Taraxacum  coffee,  and  is 
excellent  as  a  remedy  for  bilious  attacks.  Blanched  dandelion  roots  make 
a  pleasant  addition  to  a  salad  ;  they  are  blanched  like  other  plants  by 
covering  them  from  the  light  with  earth  or  sand. 

A  Mode  of  Use — Take  three  pounds  of  best  coffee,  one  pound  of  hard 
extract  of  dandelion  and  succory  reduced  to  coarse  powder  and  ground. 

Wild  Spinach. — The  roots  may  be  eaten  in  spring  like  asparagus. 
"  Good  King  Henry,"  as  it  is  often  called,  is  eaten  also  as  spinach. 

Watercress. — A  cooling  vegetable  eaten  at  breakfast  or  tea ;  it 
should  grow  in  very  pure  running  water  ;  and  in  the  spring  be  carefully 
examined,  to  see  that  no  spawn  of  toads,  etc.,  is  clinging  to  the  leaves. 

Some  Ferns  are  eatable  (especially  the  common  brake)  ;  they  should 
be  boiled  when  they  are  quite  young,  covered  with  down,  and  the  fronds 
bent  and  rolled  up  in  themselves  ;  they  form  a  delicious  kind  of  aspara- 
gus. {See  Galton's  Works.)  In  Siberia  the  fern  is  used  in  brewing  ale. 
—  One  third  of  the  fern  root  to  two-thirds  of  malt. — Dr.  Clarke  says,  "the 
properties  of  ferns  are  tonic,  antibilious,  and  decidedly  deobstruent ;  and 
therefore  a  fern,  if  esculent,  might  be  expected  to  be  very  serviceable  as 
a  change  of  diet,  to  those  labouring  under  dyspepsia  and  its  conse- 
quences." 

For  eating,  the  young  fronds  of  the  fern  must  be  blanched. 

n  The  young  fronds,"  continues  Dr.  Clarke,  "  should  be  cut  as  soon 
as  they  first  appear  at  the  surface  of  the  ground,  and  as  low  down  as 
may  be  ;  and  when  quite  blanched,  boiled  for  one  hour,  but  if  tinged 
with  green,  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  or  an  hour  and  a  half,  the  leafy 
part  in  the  latter  instance  being  rejected,  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  salt 
added  to  give  the  vegetable  a  slightly  saline  flavour." 

Soap-wort. — The  leaves  and  flowers  of  this  plant  are  saponaceous  ; 
they  contain  a  large  quantity  of  alkali.  They  may  be  boiled,  and  clothes 
washed  in  the  water  will  not  require  soap. 


THE    COMMON    MUSHEOOM. 

Agaricus  campestris  (True  Meadow  Mushroom). 

The  common  meadow  mushroom  varies  considerably,  but  "  common 
to  all  are  a  fleshy  pi lens,  which  is  sometimes  smooth,  sometimes  scaly,  in 
colour  white,  or  of  different  shades  of  tawny,  fuliginous,  or  brown  ;  gills 
free,  at  first  pallid,  then  flesh-coloured,  then  pink,  next  purple,  at  length 
tawny-black  ;  the  stem  white,  full,  firm,  varying  in  shape,  furnished  with 
a  white  persistent  ring  ;  the  spores  brown-black,  and  a  volva  which  is  very 
fugacious." — Badhanis  Esculent  Funguses  of  England. 

There  is  scarcely  any  one  in  England  who  does  not  feel  himself  com- 
petent   to   decide    on    the  genuineness  of  a  mushroom ;    its  pink   gills 


The  Common  Mushroom. 


181 


easily  distinguish  it  from  a  kindred  fungus,  Ag.  arvensis,  the  gills  of  which 
are  of  a  flesh-coloured  grey,  and  out  of  the  pickings  of  ten  thousand  hands 
a  mistake  is  of  rare  occurrence  ;  and  yet  no  fungus  presents  itself  under 
such  a  variety  of  forms,  or  such  singular  diversities  of  aspect.  The  infer- 
ence is  plain  ;  less  discrimination  than  that  employed  to  distinguish  this 
would  enable  anyone  who  should  take  the  trouble  to  recognise  at  a  glance 
many  of  those  esculent  species,  which  every  spring  and  autumn  fill  our 
plantations  and  pastures  with  plenteousness.  Neither  is  this  left  to  be  a 
mere  matter  of  inference  ;  it  is  corroborated  in  a  singular  manner  by  what 
takes  place  at  Rome  ;  there,  whilst  many  hundred  baskets  of  what  we  call 
toadstools  are  carried  home  for  the  table,  almost  the  only  one  condemned 
to  be  thrown  into  the  Tiber,  by  the  inspector  of  the  fungus  market,  is  our 
own  mushroom  ;  indeed,  in  such  dread  is  this  held  in  the  Papal  States, 
that  no  one  knowingly  would  touch  it.    "  It  is  reckoned  one  of  the  fiercest 


Agaricus  campesiris  (the  True  Meadow  Mushroom).  Pastures, 
autumn ;  colour,  white  or  pale  brown  ;  gills,  salmon,  at  length 
black  ;  diameter,  3  to  6  inches.  The  spores  are  magnified  700  dia- 
meters. 

imprecations,"  writes  Professor  Sanguinetti,  "  amongst  our  lower  orders, 
infamous  for  the  horrible  nature  of  their  oaths,  to  pray  that  one  may  die 
of  a  Pratioloj  "  and  although  it  has  been  some  years  registered  among  the 
esculent  funguses  of  Milan  and  Pavia  (on  the  authority  of  Vittadini),  it 
has  not  yet  found  its  way  into  those  markets.  Mr.  Worthington  G.  Smith, 
in  his  "Mushrooms  and  Toad-stools,"  qualifies  this  statement  of  Dr. 
Badham. 

Agaricus  campesiris  is  not  generally  appreciated  in  Italy,  and  indeed 


1 82  The  Common  Mushroom. 

is  seldom  eaten,  and  never  appears  in  the  markets,  for  the  simple  reason 
that  there  would  be  no  sale  for  it.  There  is  an  edict  in  existence  ordering 
certain  fungi  to  be  thrown  into  the  Tiber,  but  it  is  now  and  has  long  been 
altogether  effete ;  and  whilst  there  is  an  abundance  of  A.  Ccesareus 
(avowedly  the  most  delicious  of  all  fungi)  for  the  markets  of  Italy,  it  is  not 
to  be  expected  the  consumption  will  be  given  up  for  another  and  little 
known  species. 

The  Modes  of  Cooking  this  Species. — "  The  mushroom,  having  the  same 
proximate  principles  as  meat,  requires  like  meat  to  be  cooked  before  these 
become  changed.  The  Ag.  campestris  may  be  prepared  in  a  great  variety 
of  ways  :  they  give  a  fine  flavour  to  soup,  and  greatly  improve  beef-tea  ; 
where  arrowroot  and  weak  broths  are  distasteful  to  the  patient,  the  simple 
seasoning  of  a  little  ketchup  will  frequently  form  an  agreeable  change. 
Some  roast  them,  basting  with  melted  butter  and  white  (French)  wine 
sauce.  In  patties  and  vols-au-vent  they  are  equally  excellent ;  in  fricas- 
sees, as  everybody  knows,  they  are  the  important  element  of  the  dish. 

Mushrooms  a  la  Creme. — Trim  and  rub  half  a  pint  of  button  mush- 
rooms, dissolve  two  ounces  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  in  a  stewpan  ;  then 
put  in  the  mushrooms,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  white  pepper  and  of  powdered  sugar,  shake  the  pan 
round  for  ten  minutes,  then  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  add  by  degrees  to  the  mushrooms  ;  in  two  or 
three  minutes  you  can  serve  them  in  the  sauce. 

MusJirooms  on  Toast. — Put  a  pint  of  mushrooms  into  a  stewpan,  with 
two  ounces  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  pepper,  a  blade  of  mace  powdered,  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  grated  lemon  ;  stew  till  the  butter  is  all  absorbed,  then  add  as  much 
white  roux  as  will  moisten  the  mushrooms  ;  fry  a  slice  of  bread  in  butter, 
to  fit  the  dish,  and  as  soon  as  the  mushrooms  are  tender  serve  them  on 
the  toast. 

To  Pot  Mushrooms. — The  small  open  mushrooms  suit  best  for  potting. 
Trim  and  rub  them ;  put  into  a  stewpan  a  quart  of  mushrooms,  three  ounces 
of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne  and 
mace  mixed,  and  stew  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  the  mushrooms  are 
tender;  take  them  carefully  out  and  drain  them  perfectly  on  a  sloping  dish, 
and  when  cold  press  them  into  small  pots,  and  pour  clarified  butter  over 
them,  in  which  state  they  will  keep  for  a  week  or  two.  If  required  to  be 
longer  preserved,  put  writing  paper  and  melted  suet  over  the  butter. 


THE    TRUFFLE. 


The  Truffle  {Tuber  cibariuni)  grows  under  ground,  a  few  inches  be- 
neath the  surface.  Truffles  are  not  common  in  England,  though  occa- 
sionally found.  They  are  imported  chiefly  from  Perigord,  and  they  are 
also  abundant  in  Piedmont.  They  like  dry,  light  soils,  and  are  found  at 
the  roots  of  oak  and  chestnut  trees.  Dogs  are  taught  to  find  them  bv 
scent,  and  show  where  they  are  by  scratching  the  ground  :  or  even  will 


The  Truffle. 


1S3 


dig  them  up.  They  are  collected  between  October  and  January.  When 
they  are  quite  mature  they  become  gelatinous,  and  gradually  dissolve 
away. 


Truffle  Dog. 

The  truffle  is  about  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  and  has  no  roots  or  fibrils  ; 
the  skin  is  blackish  or  dark  grey,  with  small  projections  like  warts  on  it. 
The  flesh  is  greyish  white  or  blackish  with  black  or  brown  veins.  They 
are  very  expensive  to  purchase. 

They  are  much  used  for  flavourings. 

Truffles  are  found  in  England  in  Hampshire,  Wilts,  and  Kent.  They 
are  in  season  all  the  winter,  from  November  to  March. 

Truffles. 

Time,  1  hour  or  more. 

Clean  the  truffles  well  by  washing  them  in  several  waters  and  re- 
moving the  earth  with  a  brush  till  they  are  quite  free  from  it ;  butter  some 
pieces  of  white  writing-paper  and  wrap  each  truffle  in  it.  Bake  them  in  a 
hot  oven  for  an  hour  at  least.  When  they  are  done  remove  the  papers, 
wipe  the  truffles,  and  serve  them  in  a  hot  napkin.     Or, 

They  may  be  cut  in  slices,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  garlic,  and 
pounded  mace,  and  baked  for  about  an  hour  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  the 
best  salad  oil.     When  they  are  done  squeeze  a  lemon  over  them. 


1 84  To  preserve  Vegetables  for  Winter  use. 


To  Boil  Fresh  Truffles. 

Take  twelve  large  truffles,  pare  the  outside  skins  off  very  thin,  wash 
them,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  that  will  just  hold  them,  and  cover 
them  with  half  white  wine,  half  water,  two  or  three  cloves,  a  little  salt,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  blade  of  mace.  Cover  them  close,  and  boil  them  gently  for 
an  hour,  then  fold  a  napkin,  lay  it  in  a  dish,  and  serve  the  truffles  on  it. 

Fresh  Truffles  Stewed. 

Pare  off  the  outside  from  six  or  eight  large  green  truffles,  cut  them  in 
thin  slices,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  glass 
of  white  wine,  sweet  herbs  tied  together,  pepper,  salt,  and  mace.  Cover 
them  close,  and  let  them  simmer  very  slowly  for  one  hour,  then  add  a 
piece  of  butter  mixed  with  flour.  Stew  it  until  thick,  and  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  crisp  the  top  of  a  French  roll,  put  it  in  the  centre  of 
a  dish,  take  out  the  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  put  the  truffles  over  the 
roll. 

TO    PRESERVE   VEGETABLE  S  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

Green  stringed  beans  must  be  picked  when  young  ;  put  a  layer  three 
inches  deep  in  a  small  wooden  keg,  or  half-barrel,  sprinkle  in  salt  an  inch 
deep,  then  put  another  layer  of  beans,  then  salt,  and  beans  and  salt  in 
alternate  layers  until  you  have  enough  ;  let  the  last  be  salt ;  cover  them 
with  a  piece  of  board  which  will  fit  the  inside  of  the  barrel  or  keg,  and 
place  a  heavy  weight  upon  it.     They  will  make  a  brine. 

When  wanted  for  use,  soak  them  one  night  or  more  in  plenty  of  water, 
changing  it  once  or  twice  until  the  salt  is  out  of  them,  then  cut  them  and 
boil  the  same  as  when  fresh. 

Carrots,  beans,  beetroots,  parsnips,  and  potatoes  keep  best  in  dry 
sand,  or  earth,  in  a  cellar  ;  turnips  keep  best  on  a  dry  cellar  bottom,  or 
they  may  be  kept  the  same  as  carrots,  etc.  Whatever  earth  remains 
about  them  when  taken  from  the  ground  should  not  be  taken  off. 

When  sprouts  come  on  potatoes  or  other  stored  vegetables,  they  should 
be  carefully  cut  off. 

The  young  sprouts  from  turnips  are  sometimes  served  as  a  salad,  or 
boiled  tender  in  salt  and  water  and  served  with  butter  and  pepper  over. 

Celery  may  be  kept  all  the  winter  by  setting  it  in  boxes  filled  with 
earth  ;  kept  in  the  cellar,  it  will  grow  and  whiten  in  the  dark.  Leeks 
may  be  kept  also  in  this  way. 

Cabbages  set  out  in  earth,  in  a  good  cellar,  will  keep  good  and  fresh  all 
the  winter.  Small  close  heads  of  cabbage  may  be  kept  many  weeks  by 
taking  them  before  the  frost  comes  and  laying  them  on  a  stone  floor  ;  this 
will  whiten  them  and  make  them  tender. 

Store  onions  are  to  be  strung  and  hung  in  a  cold,  dry  place. 

Pumpkin  may  be  kept  for  use  thus  : — Cut  it  up,  take  off  the  skin,  and 
take  out  the  seeds  ;  put  a  teacup  of  water  to  a  common-sized  pumpkin  and 
stew  it  to  a  mash  over  a  slow  fire  ;  let  it  dry  as  much  as  it  will  without 
burning  ;  then  take  it  up,  spread  it  in  pans  or  make  it  into  thin  cakes,  and 
dry  it  in  a  hot  sun  or  cool  oven  after  baking 


Seaweeds.  185 


it  in  milk  or  pour  hot  milk  over  it,  and  let  it  dissolve  :  then  add  eggs  for 
pies.  Pumpkins  may  be  kept  for  a  long  time  on  frames  in  a  good  dry 
cellar,  or  they  may  be  cut  up  and  dried  the  same  as  apples  ;  they  are  then 
to  be  stewed  with  very  little  water,  and  used  the  same  as  fresh  pumpkin. 

Parsley  should  be  cut  when  tender  and  a  delicate  green  ;  then  pack  it 
down  in  sweet  butter  ;  one  pound  of  butter  will  be  enough  for  a  quarter  of 
a  peck  of  parsley.  This  butter  may  be  used  for  melted  butter,  or  sauce,  or 
for  frying,  or  for  fricassee.  In  this  way  parsley  may  be  kept  perfectly 
green  and  fresh  all  the  winter. 

Green  vegetables  are  good  in  proportion  as  they  are  young  and  fresh 
gathered.  Spinach,  cucumbers,  new  potatoes,  beets,  and  turnips  should  be 
put  in  cold  water  sometime  before  dressing. 

SEAWEEDS. 
Marine  Algae. 

The  seaweeds  on  our  coasts  are  comparatively  nutritious  food.  In  a 
moderately  dry  condition  they  are  said  to  contain  from  18  to  26  per  cent, 
of  water,  9-0  to  1 5  per  cent,  of  nitrogenous  constituents,  and  about  66  per 
cent,  of  starchy  matter  and  sugar.  They  are  consequently  shown  to  be 
richer  in  nitrogen  than  oatmeal  or  Indian  corn. 

The  edible  s^weeds  are,  Ulva  latiforina,  Porphyra  laciniata,  Condrus 
crispus,  Laminaria  digitata,  Laminaria  saccharina,  and  Alaria  esculenta. 

Ulva  Latissima 

Is  a  deep  green  weed,  covering  the  stones  as  well  as  the  rocks  as  the 
tide  recedes,  called  by  fishermen  "  oyster  green,"  because  employed  to 
cover  oysters.  It  is  also  called  lave?;  as  it  is  used  by  epicures  instead  of 
the  true  laver,  when  Porphyra  cannot  be  procured,  but  it  is  by  no  means 
so  good. 

Porphyra. 

(From  a  Greek  word  signifying  "  Furple.") 

Generic  character. — Delicately  membranaceous,  flat,  purple. 

Porphyra  is  also  called  Laver  and  Sloke.  It  is  a  favourite  dish  with 
some  people,  stewed  for  several  hours  until  quite  tender,  and  eaten  with 
pepper,  vinegar,  and  butter  ;  others  prefer  it  cooked  with  leeks  and  onions,  or 
pickled  and  eaten  with  oil  and  lemon-juice.  It  does  not  look  inviting  and 
the  taste  is  peculiar,  but  is  very  wholesome,  and  will  keep  a  long  time  in 
closed  tin  vessels  ;  it  is  therefore  valuable  in  long  sea  voyages. 

Chondrus. 

(Name  signifying  "  Cartilage,"  from  the  toughness  of  its  frond.) 

Generic  character. — A  flat,  cartilaginous  frond,  divided  into  branching 
lesser  fronds  of  purplish  or  livid  red  colour. 

Fructification. —  1.  Tubercles,  or  warts,  composed  of  radiating  threads, 
whose  lower  joints  transfoim  into  spores.  2.  Tetraspores  collected  into 
sori,  immersed  in  the  substance  of  the  frond. 


:86  Seaweeds. 


Chondrus  Crispus. 

In  deep  pools  between  half-tide  and  low  water  we  shall  find  abun- 
dance of  this  seaweed,  better  known  as  Irish  moss,  or  Carrageen  moss, 
sold  once  as  high  as  is.  6d.  per  pound,  whilst  in  repute  with  physicians  as 
a  light  and  easily-digested  food  for  invalids.  This  plant  varies  exceed- 
ingly in  size  and  colour  :  in  shallow  pools,  small,  pale,  and  stunted ; 
whilst  in  the  shadow  of  a  great  rock,  or  down  at  the  bottom  of  a  deep 
pool,  it  has  purple  red  and  reddish-green  thick  fronds  in  dense  masses. 
Carrageen  Moss  has  been  recently  prepared  and  sold  for  making  a  cheap 
and  nourishing  blancmange. 

Laminaria  Digitata, 

Called  Sea-girdles,  in  England ;  Tangle,  in  Scotland  ;  Sea-staff,  Sea- 
wand,  Coius'-tails,  and  Red-ware  in  the  Orkneys.  These  great  thick 
stems  are  cut  up  by  the  fisher-boys  as  handles  for  knives  or  hooks.  When 
it  is  fresh  the  blade  is  stuck  in,  and  as  the  stem  dries  it  hardens,  contracts 
closely  and  firmly,  embracing  the  hilt  of  the  blade.  It  takes  some  months 
to  be  quite  firm,  and  then  is  hard  and  shrivelled,  very  like  hart's-horn.* 

"  Look  reverently  at  it,"  says  Mrs.  Lane  Clarke,  in  her  charming  "  Com- 
mon Seaweeds."  "  Do  you  know  that  a  little  slice  under  the  microscope 
will  show  you  a  tissue  of  delicate  cells  in  which  God  has  stored  up  one  of 
the  most  precious  remedies  for  suffering  mankind  ?  that  He  has  given  the 
Laminaria-stem  power  to  abstract  from  the  sea  a  precious  substance 
called  Iodine — that  which  alone  can  relieve  the  pale,  sad  sufferer  from 
scrofula,  reduce  the  swollen  glands,  check  the  ravages  of  cancer,  act  on 
the  torpid  liver,  ease  the  racking  pains  of  rheumatism,  give  the  flush  of 
health  to  the  wasted  weary  invalid  ?  Yes — this  is  hidden  in  that  rough 
brown  stem,  brought  out  by  fire  in  the  kelp-kilns  of  Ireland  and  Scotland. 
Another  use  is  its  importance  in  the  manufacture  of  glass  :  our  fragile 
beautiful  glass  springs  from  the  old  brown  seaweed. 

"  Some  shipwrecked  sailors,  making  a  fire  with  the  dried  weed  amidst 
fine  river  sand,  found  the  strange  transparent  substance  in  the  ashes 
which  gave  the  first  hint  of  our  window  panes.  What  should  we  have 
done  for  soap  without  those  sticks  of  tangle  ?  And  do  we  remember  that 
iodine,  like  the  violet  mist  of  the  Arabian  tales,  rises  from  the  burning 
kelp — a  genie  whose  power  gives  back  the  lost,  the  absent,  the  beloved  ? 
Did  not  the  calotype,  the  daguerreotype,  owe  their  birth  to  this  subtile 
essence,  compelling  the  sun  itself  to  be  a  portrait  painter  ? 

"  Well  may  those  banners  float  out  upon  the  sea,  and  well  may  we 
ponder  on  the  tangled  fronds  cast  up  by  the  storm.  There  is  subject  for 
a  long  lesson  and  for  a  song  of  praise  in  the  weather-beaten  stems  of  old 
Laminaria  Digitata." 

Laminaria  Saccharina. 

A  single,  smooth,  brown  frond,  clear  olive  and  glossy,  with  a  conical 
root  of  twisted  fibres.     It  well  deserves  its  name  "  Saccharine,"  from  the 


"Common  Seaweeds."    By  Mrs.  Lane  Clarke. 


Fresh  Fruits.  187 


abundance  of  sweet  mannite  or  manna  which  is  secreted  in  its  cells.  This 
was  discovered  by  Dr.  Stenhouse  some  years  ago  :  he  took  a  quantity  of 
this  seaweed  and  macerated  it  in  a  particular  way  called  "digesting"  in 
hot  water,  which  formed  it  into  a  brownish  sweetish  mucilage.  When 
evaporated,  it  left  a  considerable  quantity  of  saline  semi-crystalline  sub- 
stance. This  was  reduced  to  powder  and  treated  with  alcohol,  by  which 
a  considerable  portion  of  it  was  dissolved.  This  solution  yielded,  on 
cooling,  large  hard  prisms  of  fine  silky  lustre,  very  beautiful,  purely  white 
as  loaf  sugar  and  almost  as  sweet.     This  is  mannite. 

Alaria  Eseulenta. 

(Name  from  ala,  "a  wing,"  in  allusion  to  the  winged  leaflets  at  the 
base  of  the  frond. ) 

This  beautiful  plant  is  abundant  on  the  northern  coasts  of  England 
and  Scotland,  and  extends  throughout  the  whole  of  the  Northern  and 
Pacific  Oceans.  It  flourishes  in  the  deepest  water  and  on  the  most  ex- 
posed rocks  ;  the  roughest  sea  seems  to  be  its  chosen  playfellow,  though 
the  delicate  fronds  are  worn  and  torn  by  the  rude  waves,  and  we  rarely 
find  a  specimen  in  a  perfect  state.  The  colour  is  clear  olive  yellow  ;  the 
root  is  a  mass  of  round  strong  branching  fibres,  the  stem  as  thick  as  a 
small  goose-quill,  naked  in  its  lower  part  for  the  length  of  two  to  four 
inches,  then  clothed  with  leaflets  without  a  rib,  four  inches  long,  after 
which  the  frond  begins,  and  varies  from  three  to  twenty  feet  in  length,  the 
margin  plaited  and  split  here  and  there  like  a  frond  of  hart's-tongue  fern. 
The  fructification  is  microscopic,  formed  on  the  leaflets,  which  appear, 
when  in  fruit,  as  if  partially  covered  with  a  brown  crust.  This  crust  con- 
sists of  dense  masses  of  slender  transparent  spore-cases,  on  a  stalk  con- 
taining four  spores  set  in  a  cruciform  manner. 

The  plant  is  eaten  in  Ireland,  Scotland,  Denmark,  and  the  Faroe 
Islands,  and  has  various  household  names — "  Badderlocks,"  "  Henware," 
"  Honeyware,"  and  "  Murlins."  Four  other  species  are  natives  of  America 
and  of  Asia. 

To  prepare  seedweeds  for  food  they  must  first  be  steeped  in  water,  to 
which  add  a  little  carbonate  of  soda  ;  this  will  remove  saline  particles  and 
take  off  their  bitterness.  Then  stew  them  in  water  and  milk  till  they  are 
tender.     Serve  them  flavoured  with  pepper  and  vinegar. 


FRESH    FRUITS. 

All  fresh  fruits  contain  a  mixture  of  vegetable  acids,  with  more  or  less 
sugar  and  mucilage.  They  are  mostly  cooling,  refreshing,  and  whole- 
some, but  to  this  stone  fruits  are  in  many  cases  an  exception.  Peaches, 
nectarines,  and  apricots  are  tolerably  wholesome.  Cherries  and  plums 
are  indigestible,  and  plums  are  apt  to  give  diarrhoea. 

;{ Fruits,"  says  Dr.  Cameron,  "  are  used  as  a  staple  food  in  many 
warm  countries  ;  but  in  most  parts  of  Europe  they  are  regarded  chiefly 
in  the  light  of  luxuries.  Deprived  of  their  stones  or  seeds,  they  contain 
often  not  more  than  five  per  cent,  of  solid  matter.    They  are  very  poor 


Quinces.  —Medlars. — Apples. 


in  albuminoids  ;  but  they  are  usually  rich  in  sugar,  and  many  of  them 
contain  much  acid.  There  is  the  greatest  variation  in  the  relative  amounts 
of  pectose,  sugar,  and  acid  in  edible  fruits.  Berries  contain,  as  a  rule, 
more  acid  than  stone  fruit.  Th~  grape  contains  from  thirteen  to  twenty 
per  cent,  of  sugar  ;  the  cherry  only  one  and  a  half  per  cent.  In  the  peach 
there  is  about  nine  per  cent,  of  soluble  pectin  and  gum,  whilst  the  goose- 
berry includes  only  two  per  cent,  of  these  bodies.  In  the  common  fruits 
the  percentage  of  free  acids  varies  from  a  mere  trace  to  about  three  per 
cent.  The  pear  is  almost  wholly  free  from  acids,  whilst  the  currant  often 
contains  three  times  as  much  free  acid  as  sugar.  The  grape  is  probably 
the  best  fruit  adapted  for  the  sick.  As  heat-and-force  producing  foods, 
five  pounds  and  a  half  of  grapes,  six  pounds  and  two-thirds  of  apples  or 
cherries,  ten  pounds  and  three-quarters  of  currants,  and  twelve  pounds 
and  one-third  of  strawberries  are  equal  to  one  pound  of  starch.  The 
dietetic  value  of  the  fruits  is  chiefly  due  to  their  fine  flavour  and  their 
abundance  of  saline  matter. 

Quinces. 

In  season  :  October  to  November. 

Quinces  improve  the  flavour  of  apple  tarts,  and  make  excellent  mar- 
malade, resembling  Guava  jelly  in  flavour. 

Medlars. 

In  season  :  November  to  December. 

Medlars  are  never  eaten  till  they  are  in  a  state  of  decay  ;  they  are  not 
much  in  demand. 

Apples. 

In  season  :  non-keeping,  July  to  September  ;  keeping,  October  to  May. 

The  apple  is  the  most  useful  of  fruits.  It  supplies  the  cider  counties 
with  their  ordinary  beverage,  and,  cooked,  furnishes  us  with  an  excellent 
food  for  old  people  and  children.  Every  housemother  will  value  the 
apple,  and  knows  well  its  uses.  Apples  may  be  kept  on  shelves  with  straw 
under  and  over  them,  nicely  covered.  They  must  not  touch  each  other, 
and  should  be  often  turned  and  examined.  They  must  not  be  left  in  too 
cold  a  place  as  they  will  freeze,  and  if  they  thaw  in  the  light  are  apt  to 
decay.  Keep  them,  if  possible,  not  frozen.  They  should  also  be  kept  in 
a  distant  part  of  the  house,  or  an  out-door  shed  or  room,  as  the  smell  of 
kept  apples  is  extremely  disagreeable  and  penetrating.  There  are  many 
good  keeping  apples.  The  French  crab  has  been  known  to  keep  for 
three  years.     The  golden  reinette  and  old  nonpareil  keep  well. 

Apples  and  pears  are  better  kept  between  two  layers  of  cotton  wool — 
this  is  the  American  mode  of  keeping  them.  Choose  apples  by  weight  ; 
the  heaviest  are  the  best,  and  large  apples  save  the  waste  of  peeling  and 
co.vcimr, 


Pears. — Strawberries. — Cranberries.  189 


Dessert  Dishes  of  Apples. 

Take  twelve  large  green  apples,  green  them  as  for  preserving,  and  put 
them  on  a  tin  plate  or  dish  ;  whisk  the  White  of  six  eggs  to  a  very  stiff 
froth,  rub  them  over  with  it,  sift  loaf  sugar  over  them,  and  put  them  in 
the  oven  until  they  look  bright  and  sparkle  like  frost  ;  then  take  them 
out  and  arrange  them  carefully  in  the  dish  you  intend  to  serve  them  on, 
pour  some  good  custard  round  them,  and  stick  a  flower  on  every  apple. 

Apple  Love-Knots. 

Take  the  pulp  of  the  apples  after  the  juice  has  been  taken  from  them, 
rub  them  through  a  sieve,  weigh  it,  and  put  it  into  a  pan,  stir  it  well  over 
the  fire  until  it  boils,  then  put  to  it  half  the  quantity  of  white  sugar  sifted  ; 
let  it  come  to  a  boil  ;  then  pour  it  on  a  large  flat  dish,  and  run  it  about 
the  thickness  of  a  crown  piece,  put  it  into  a  cool  oven,  and  when  dry  cut 
it  into  long  strips  with  a  paste  cutter  and  twist  them  into  knobs.  Put 
them  in  a  tin  or  glass  in  a  very  dry  place.  You  may  put  cochineal  to 
some  of  the  strips. 

Ripe  Pears. 

In  season  :  non-keepers,  Sept.  and  Oct.  ;  keepers,  Oct.  to  Feb. 
Constituent  parts  in  lib. 
Oz.  Grs. 


Water  .    .    ...     13    184 

Sugar 1     368 

Albumen  ....      o      14 


Oz.  Grs. 
Woody  fibre  ...  0154 
Gum     .....       o     147 

Mineral  ashes    .     .       o         7 


The  pear  is  a  very  delicious  fruit,  and  by  extreme  cultivation  and  care 
is  produced  of  great  size  and  delicious  flavour.  There  are  an  immense 
variety  of  pears  for  eating  and  keeping.  Pears  should  be  covered  with 
paper  and  hung  up  by  their  stalks  so  as  not  to  touch  each  other.  It  is  a 
good  plan  to  cover  the  tip  of  the  stalk  with  sealing-wax  as  we  do  to  natural 
flowers  for  wearing  in  the  evening  ;  or  wrap  them  in  a  layer  of  cotton,  but 
never  suffer  them  to  touch  each  other. 

Strawberries. 

In  season  :  June  and  July. 

This  delicious  fruit  received  its  name  from  the  practice  of  the  people 
in  tying  them  down  straws  as  cherries  were  often  sold  tied  down  sticks, 
The  strawberry  grows  wild  in  many  parts  of  England  in  the  woodlands, 
but  our  cultivated  varieties  have  many  of  them  been  imported  from  other 
lands.  This  fruit  makes  a  delicious  preserve,  and  is  eaten  fresh  as  a 
dessert  fruit. 

Cranberries, 
In  season  :  fresh,  Sept.  and  Oct. ;  imported,  Nov.  to  Jan. 

The  Cranberry  grows  best  on  the  muddy  margin  of  a  pond,  or  in  bog 
earth.  It  is  a  native  of  England  and  all  the  north  of  Europe,  but  American 


i  go  Barberries. ^-Currants. — Raspberries. 

cranberries  are  the  best ;  the  flavour  is  a  pleasant  acid.  It  is  used  for 
tarts,  but  is  not  so  common  as  the  garden  berries  are.  It  is  also  pre- 
served, and  is  imported  during  the  winter  months. 

Barberries. 

In  season  :  July  and  August. 

The  Barberry  or  berberry  is  of  three  kinds — the  common  red,  the 
stoneless,  and  the  sweet.  The  barberry  makes  an  excellent  preserve,  and 
is  a  pretty  breakfast  or  dessert  dish.     {See  plate.) 

A  Pretty  Dish  of  Barberries. 

Select  the  finest  barberries,  taking  the  largest  bunches  to  preserve 
whole.  Divide  the  fruit,  pick  half 'of  them  off  their  stems  ;  put  them  into 
a  preserving  pan  with  sufficient  water  to  make  a  syrup  ;  boil  them  till 
they  are  soft  ;  then  strain  off  the  juice,  and  to  every  pint  of  syrup  put  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  pounded  loaf  sugar.  Boil  and  skim  it  well,  and  to 
every  pint  of  this  syrup  put  half  a  pound  of  barberries  tied  in  bunches. 
Boil  them  in  it  till  they  look  clear,  then  put  them  in  glass  bottles  for  use, 
tied  down  with  paper  dipped  in  brandy.  When  you  wish  to  use  them 
make  a  mound  of  fresh  moss  and  stick  them  over  it  by  their  stems.  This 
dish  is  used  for  ornamenting  a  supper  or  breakfast  table. 

Currants. 

In  season  :  July  and  August. 

Currants  belong  to  the  same  genus  of  plants  as  the  gooseberry.  They 
are  red,  white,  and  black.  The  white  and  red  serve  for  dessert  fruits  ;  the 
black  is  used  exclusively  for  pies,  puddings,  and  jams.  Crystallized  cur- 
rants in  moss  are  an  elegant  dessert  dish.  Take  some  of  the  finest 
bunches  of  red  and  white  currants.  Well  beat  the  whites  of  three  or 
four  eggs,  and  mix  with  the  stiff  froth  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  spring  water. 
Dip  each  bunch  of  currants  separately  into  the  egg  water.  Drain  them 
for  a  minute,  holding  them  by  the  stems  ;  roll  them  in  finely-powdered 
loaf  sugar  ;  repeat  this  till  you  get  enough  sugar  on  them.  Lay  them  on 
white  paper  to  dry  before  the  fire.  The  sugar  will  then  crystallize.  Make  a 
mound  of  moss,  and  stick  them  in  it  by  the  stems.    {See  plate.) 

Raspberries. 

In  season  :  July  and  August. 

Raspberries  are  called  travelling  plants,  because  if  left  alone  they  run 
along  in  suckers  to  a  considerable  distance,  thus  propagating  themselves. 
The  best  are  the  red  and  yellow  Antwerp.  The  raspberry  belongs  to  the 
same  genus  as  the  bramble  or  blackberry.  Raspberries  are  eaten  in  tarts 
with  red  currants,  or  alone,  preserved,  or  made  into  raspberry  vinegar— 
an  excellent  remedy  for  sore  throat. 

Raspberries  and  strawberries  will  remove  tarter  from  the  teeth. 


Gooseberries. ^-Peach  and  Nectarine. — Apricot. 


191 


Gooseberries. 

In  season  :  green,  June  and  July  ;  ripe,  August  and  September. 


Constituent  parts  in  lib. 
Oz.  Grs. 


Water    .     . 
Dextrin 
Albumen     . 
Woody  fibre 


o 

56 

63 

108 


Oz.  Grs. 


Sugar     . 
Malic  acid 
Citric  acid 
Lime .     . 


I 

0 

0 

168 

0 

21 

0 

21 

The  Gooseberry  is  a  common  and  very  useful  fruit.  It  will  keep  well, 
bottled  green,  or  it  makes  a  delicious  preserve  ;  it  can  be  used  for  tarts 
also  while  unripe,  and  for  fool.  Gooseberry  bushes  should  be  in  every 
poor  man's  garden. 

The  skin  of  the  gooseberry  being  very  indigestible  is  never  swallowed. 
Gooseberries  are  useful  for  cooling  the  system  ;  the  acid  in  them  is  very 
wholesome. 

The  small  hairy  sort  of  gooseberry  is  best  for  preserving.  The  large 
yellow  and  old-fashioned  red  gooseberry  are  best  for  dessert. 

The  gooseberry  is  very  good  food  ;  perfectly  dry  it  is  nearly  as  nourish- 
ing as  wheaten  flour. 

The  Peach  and  the  Nectarine. 

In  season  :  August,  September,  and  October. 


Water  .  .  .  . 
Malic  acid  .  . 
Colouring  matter 
Albumen     .     .     . 


Constituent  parts  in  lib. 
Oz.  Grs. 

11  43i 
o  126 
o    78 

O      12 


Dextrin  (gum) 
Ashes  .  .  . 
Sugar  .  .  . 
Cellulose    .     . 


Oz.  Grs. 

o  357 
o  14 
2  241 
o  123 


The  Peach  is  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  Persia,  and  was  introduced 
into  England  about  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century.  The  peach  and 
the  nectarine  are  only  varieties  of  one  species  of  almond.  The  two  fruits 
have  been  known  to  grow  on  the  same  tree  without  grafting.  Both  are 
divided  into  two  kinds  :  the  free  stones,  the  flesh  of  which  parts  readily 
from  the  stone  ;  and  the  cling  stones,  the  flesh  of  which  adheres  to  the 
stone.  The  earliest  peach  is  the  Red  Nutmeg,  which  ripens  in  July.  The 
Grosse,  Mignonne,  Belgarde,  and  Barrington  are  good  peaches. 

The  best  nectarines  are  the  Ebruge,  the  Violette  native,  and  the  white 
nectarine.     These  fruits  are  very  wholesome. 

The  Apricot. 

In  season  :  green,  May  ;  ripe,  July  and  August. 

The  Apricot  is  a  native  of  America,  introduced  in  1562.  Its  culture  is 
the  same  as  that  of  the  peach.  The  fruit  is  suffered  to  form,  and  is  then 
thinned  out  while  it  is  green,  in  May  or  the  beginning  of  June.     Green 


192  Plum. — Cherry.  — Fig. 


apricots  make  delicious  tarts,  and  are  therefore  not  wasted.  The  apricot 
makes  also  an  excellent  jam.  The  best  for  preserving  are  the  Brodie  ; 
the  Moorpont  are  best  for  table.  Soap-suds  poured  round  the  root  of  the 
apricot  tree  is  believed  to  improve  the  fruit. 

Beignets  d'Abricots. 

Split  some  apricots  in  half,  remove  the  stones  and  skin,  roll  each  half 
in  powdered  loaf  sugar,  dip  in  butter,  and  fry. 

The  Plum. 

In  season  :  August  and  September. 

An  indigestible  stone  fruit,  which,  however,  makes  excellent  jam,  and 
good  tarts  ;  cooked,  it  is  wholesome. 

The  Cherry. 

In  season  :  eating  cherries,  June  and  July ;  morella,  September. 

The  Cherry  is  also  indigestible  when  not  cooked.  It  is  said  to  have 
been  brought  to  England  by  the  Romans,  Lucullus  having  imported  it  to 
Europe  from  the  countries  on  the  Black  Sea.  It  is  excellent  in  brandy, 
and  contains  itself  a  strong  spirit  which  may  be  extracted.  A  relative 
of  the  writer  once  achieved  this  manufacture.  He  had  a  quantity 
ofmorella  cherries  put  into  a  large  earthenware  bread  pan,  with  their 
equal  weight  of  large  lumps  of  white  sugar.  As  it  was  impossible  to  stir 
this  mass,  two  of  the  men  servants  rolled  the  pan  from  side  to  side,  thus 
the  juice  was  extracted.  It  was  left  to  ferment,  and  became  a  cherry- 
flavoured  spirit  much  stronger  than  cherry  brandy  generally  is  ;  the 
cherries  were  bottled  with  it.  Cherries  make  good  tarts,  and  are  a  plea- 
sant fruit  for  the  table. 

Pickled  Cherries. 
Take  three  pounds  of  morella  cherries,  one  and  a  half  drachms  of  mace, 
one  and  a  half  drachms  of  white  pepper,  one  and  a  half  drachms  of  cloves, 
one  and  a  half  drachms  of  cubebs,  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  All  the 
spices  are  to  be  bruised.  Boil  the  bruised  spices  in  four  pints  of  white 
vinegar,  and  pour  it  warm  over  the  cherries.  Cut  off  half  their  stalks,  and 
prick  each  cherry  in  three  or  four  places.  The  cherries  must  be  pickled 
when  ripe,  and  will  be  ready  for  use  about  Christmas. — Food  Journal. 

The  Fig. 

In  season  :  September  and  October. 

The  Fig  will  grow  and  bear  well  in  any  soil  it  likes.  It  thrives  and 
bears  well  in  London  and  the  neighbourhood.  The  fruit  is  delicious  and 
wholesome.  The  preserved  figs  eaten  in  England  are  imported  from 
Smyrna  and  the  Levant.  The  fig  is  exceedingly  nutritious  ;  it  contains 
nearly  as  much  gluten  as  wheaten  bread,  and  is  twenty-seven  per  cent, 
richer  in  starch  and  sugar.     Any  poor  man  who  can  grow  a  fig-tree  near 


Mulberries. — Nuts.  I9^ 


his  home  will  find  its  fruit  help  to  nourish  and  sustain  his  children  ;  yet, 
strangely  enough,  there  are  places  in  rural  England  where  the  poor  will 
not  eat  figs,  but  give  them  to  their  swine  as  food. 

Mulberries. 

In  season  :  September  and  October. 

There  are  three  distinct  species  of  Mulberry — the  white,  the  black,  and 
the  red.  The  white  mulberry  is  the  tree  on  which  the  silkworm  lives.  It 
is  scarcely  ever  grown  in  England. 

The  black  mulberry  is  said  to  be  a  native  of  Persia,  but  was  early 
brought  to  Europe,  and  was  introduced  into  England  long  before  1573,  as 
many  large  trees  were  then  in  existence  in  our  country.  The  leaves  of  the 
black  mulberry — the  one  generally  found  in  our  gardens — are  not  good 
for  silkworms,  nor  are  those  of  the  red  mulberry,  the  fruit  of  which  is  not 
good.  Only  lettuce  leaves  should  be  used  for  silkworms  in  England.  The 
mulberry  is  later  in  coming  into  leaf  than  any  other  tree,  but  when  its  buds 
once  open  the  leaves  expand,  and  the  fruit  forms  very  rapidly.  It  needs 
very  little  care  from  the  gardener,  and  no  pruning.  The  fruit  drops  off  as 
soon  as  it  is  ripe  ;  therefore  it  is  usual  to  plant  the  tree  in  the  centre  of  a 
soft  lawn,  that  the  berries  may  fall  without  being  bruised.  The  juice  of  the 
mulberry  extracted  as  a  syrup  is  good  for  colds  and  sore  throats. 

NUTS. 

In  season  :  hazel  nut  andjilderl,  September  and  October. 

Nuts  are  an  indigestible  food,  full  of  oil,  and  valuable  rather  as  a 
source  of  pleasure  by  affording  us  the  delightful  amusement  of  Nutting 
than  for  any  other  use  they  may  be  to  us.  The  hazel  nut  is  a  native 
fruit. 

The  filbert  is  only  a  variety  of  the  common  hazel.  It  is  supposed  to 
derive  its  name  from  the  words  "  full  beard,"  applied  to  it  at  first  on  ac- 
count of  the  length  of  its  husk.  The  best  nuts  grow  in  Kent.  Filberts  are 
reared  in  orchards,  also  about  Maidstone  and  elsewhere  :  they  are  trained 
with  short  stems  like  gooseberry  bushes. 

Filberts  may  be  kept  for  two  years  by  packing  them  when  quite  ripe 
and  dry,  in  their  husks  (in  which  they  are  always  served),  in  earthen  jars. 
A  layer  of  salt  must  be  spread  over  the  fruit,  and  the  jars  must  be  tied 
down  closely  with  brown  paper.  They  must  be  kept  in  a  cold  place. 
If  they  get  black  and  mouldy-looking  they  may  be  renovated  before  using 
by  putting  them  on  a  strainer  or  colander,  and  shaking  them  gently  over  a 
chafing  dish  of  red-hot  charcoal  over  which  a  little  powdered  sulphur  has 
been  thrown  ;  the  fumes  will  restore  their  appearance  and  render  them  fit 
to  send  to  table. 

The  Almond. 

The  Almond  is  grown  for  its  kernel  also,  and  may  be  called  a  nut,  but 
it  is  in  fact  a  peach  tree.  Almond  trees  are  cultivated  in  England  only 
for  their  flowers — the  fruit  is  imported  from  Malaga. 

o 


194  Chestnut. —  Walnut 


The  Chestnut, 

Imported  :  September  and  October  to  December. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  chestnuts— the  sweet  or  Spanish  chestnut,  and 
the  horse-chestnut.  The  sweet  chestnut  (Casta?iea  vesca)  of  Asia ;  it  has 
also  been  found  in  the  north  of  Africa  and  in  North  America.  We  call  it  the 
Spanish  chestnut,  because  the  best  chestnuts  for  the  table  were  formerly 
brought  from  Spain. 

Chestnut-trees  are  now  grown  in  England,  but  the  fruit  used  by  us  is 
imported.  There  are  several  celebrated  chestnut-trees  of  enormous  size 
and  great  age.  The  Castagna  di  Cento  Cavalli,  on  Mount  Etna,  is  famous 
for  its  great  proportions,  and  also  the  Tortworth  chestnut  in  England. 

In  the  south  of  France  and  north  of  Italy  the  nuts  serve  as  food  in 
place  of  bread  and  potatoes.  Chestnuts  are  dried  and  laid  by  for  winter 
use.  There  is  no  doubt  that  chestnut-flour  would  make  a  palatable 
bread.  Chestnuts  are  used  in  Galette,  Polenta,  Maroon  glace,  and  in 
many  other  ways. 

For  dressing  them  as  a  dessert  fruit,  for  stuffing  turkeys,  etc.,  receipts 
will  be  found  in  Warne's  "  Model  Cookery  Book." 

The  Walnut. 

In  season  :  fresh,  September  and  October  ;  for  pickling,  July. 

The  Romans  called  this  fruit  the  "Nut  of  Jove;"  the  Greeks  dedi- 
cated the  tree  to  Diana,  and  held  festivals  under  its  shade.  With  us,  it  is 
associated  with  pictures  of  rural  life  and  repose  ;  for  of  old  the  walnut- 
tree  flourished  on  many  a  village  green  and  by  many  a  cottage  door. 

Our  readers  have,  doubtless,  heard  the  old  adage  : — 

•*  A  woman,  a  spaniel,  and  a  walnut-tree, 
The  more  you  beat  them  the  better  they  be." 

A  third  of  truth  is  certainly  contained  in  it,  for  beating  a  walnut-tree 
really  does  improve  it,  by  breaking  off  the  points  of  the  too  luxuriant  shoots, 
and  making  them  send  out  the  short  spurs  which  alone  produce  the  nut. 
We  may  add,  thztflrumng  answers  the  same  end.  Walnuts  are  an  excellent 
nut,  and  the  green  walnut  makes  a  good  pickle.  They  are  best  when  eaten 
just  as  they  fall  from  the  tree,  when  their  green  envelope  breaks,  and  the 
ripe  nut  will  open  on  the  pressure  of  finger  and  thumb  ;  but  they  will  also 
keep  well  for  some  time. 

A  decoction  of  the  leaves  and  husks  of  this  tree  will  protect  plants 
from  insects  if  sprinkled  on  their  leaves.     It  is  also  a  powerful  dye. 

If  walnuts  become  shrivelled,  soak  them  in  hot  milk  and  water  for 
seven  hours  before  sending  them  to  table.  This  will  make  them  plump  up 
and  peel  easily. 


Grapes. — Melons- ^Pine  Apples.  195 


Grapes. 

In  season  :  forced,  May  to  September  ;  open  air,  September  to 
November ;  foreign,  November  to  May. 

Constituent  parts  in  lib. 


Oz.  Grs. 

Water 10  222 

Glucose  or  grape  sugar  .       1  316 

Gum o  79 


Oz.  Grs, 

Albumen o     158 

Tartaric  acid     .     .     .     .     o       50 
Ashes o       50 


The  Grape  is  the  most  wholesome  of  fruits,  and  a  grape  diet  has  of  late 
years  been  recommended  as  a  cure  for  consumption. 

The  grape  is  chiefly  cultivated  in  hothouses,  and  attains  great  perfec- 
tion in  them  under  skilful  culture.  It  grows  small  in  the  open  air,  though 
we  have  tasted  very  sweet  small  grapes  from  open-air  vines. 

Grapes  are  also  imported,  and  can  be  had  at  a  moderate  price  in  the 
winter.  Cut  bunches  of  grapes  should  be  hung  up  in  loose  bags  of  tissue 
paper  till  required.  If  they  have  been  kept  long,  clip  the  stalk  of  the 
bunch  and  put  it  into  a  wineglass  of  claret,  or  port  wine  ;  the  wine  drawn 
up  by  capillary  attraction  will  refresh  the  grapes  for  eating. 

Melons, 

In  season  :  forced,  July  to  September  :  foreign,  July  to  September. 

The  gourd  tribe  are  remarkable  for  the  water  they  contain.  The 
melon  contains  94  per  cent,  of  water.  They  are  the  fruits  of  hot  dry 
climates.  In  our  cold  lands  they  are  less  needed,  and  tax  the  digestion  cf 
a  weak  stomach.  Eaten  with  pepper  instead  of  sugar — an  Asiatic  custom 
— the  melon  is  not  unwholesome.  It  makes  a  delicious  preserve.  The 
imported  Spanish  melon,  of  great  size,  may  be  bought  for  about  2s. 

Pine  Apples. 

In  season  :  forced,  June  to  August ;  foreign,  all  the  year,  nearly. 

A  very  expensive  hothouse  fruit,  but  to  be  bought  cheaply  enough — for 
about  is.  6d.  to  2s.  or  3J.  from  the  fruit  shops.  The  cheap  pines  are 
imported  from  the  West  Indies. 

Pine-apple  preserve  is  excellent,  but  the  fruit  is  not  easy  of  digestion. 

Flavour  of  Fruit. 

To  obtain  the  full,  true,  delicious  flavour  of  a  strawberry  or  peach, 
gather  the  fruit  one  day  in  advance  and  shut  it  up  closely  in  the  fruit- 
room,  and  it  will  then  be  fit  for  the  dessert  and  a  credit  to  the  cultivator. 
A  second-class  fruit  prepared  by  this  course  of  procedure  will  actually 
surpass  a  first-class  fruit  eaten  freshly  gathered ;  yet  the  current  notion 
is,  that  soft  fruits  cannot  be  too  fresh,  and  that  the  keeping  of  them  dete- 
riorates their  flavour. — Gai'dener's  Magazine. 

O  2 


1 9  6  The  Sf ore-room. 


Cotton  as  a  Preservative  of  Fruit. 

It  is  not  generally  known  that  common  raw  cotton  is  one  of  the  best 
and  most  simple  means  of  preserving  fruit  for  a  long  while.  In  America 
it  is  in  general  use  for  keeping  grapes  fresh  all  the  winter.  The  method 
employed  is  as  follows  : — The  bunches  are  gently  laid  between  a  layer  of 
cotton  in  a  glass  or  earthenware  jar.  The  jar  is  then  corked  down  and 
the  corks  dipped  in  melted  resin. 


THE    STORE-ROOM. 

A  large  airy,  cool  and  dry  store-room  is  a  great  boon — a  small  airy 
closet  will,  however,  suffice  if  a  large  one  is  not  to  be  had.  Shelves,  hooks 
and  nails  in  the  walls,  or  on  the  edges  of  the  shelves,  are  essential ;  a  few 
little  nets  for  hanging  lemons,  earthenware  jars  and  tins,  are  also  required. 

A  book  and  pencil  should  be  kept  in  the  store-room  ;  in  this  book 
every  article  purchased  should  be  entered,  with  its  date  and  price  on  one 
page,  "  taken  out,"  should  head  the  other  page  ;  and  on  it  should  be  en- 
tered everything  given  out  of  the  store-room. 

The  cook  should  be  supplied,  once  a  week,  with  the  ordinary  things 
required — such  as  kitchen  tea  and  sugar,  rice,  candles,  soap,  etc.  etc. — in 
fact  all  she  can  possibly  want.  On  that  day  week  she  should  account  for 
all  she  has  used,  and  bring  any  remainders,  which  can  be  made  up  to  the 
average  quantity.  If  the  housemother  prefers  giving  out  the  store-room 
articles  daily,  she  should  still  enter  them  in  her  book  at  the  time. 

In  this  manner,  the  consumption  of  stores  will  be  constantly  checked. 
Say,  the  housekeeper  has  given  out  so  many  pounds  of  bedroom  candles  ; 
a  glance  back  will  show  whether  they  have  lasted  the  proper  time,  when 
the  housemaid  comes  to  ask  for  more.  Say,  that  a  pound  of  tea  is  to  last 
her  and  the  cook  a  fortnight ;  if  she  asks  for  more  in  ten  days,  a  glance  at 
the  book  will  reveal  the  irregularity  ;  it  will  also  betray  too  great  a  con- 
sumption of  lemons,  nutmegs,  etc.  etc.,  or  any  other  article. 

A  store-room  should  be  dry,  clean  and  cool.  In  the  coolest  and  driest 
part  should  be  kept  the  jams,  pickles  and  preserves.  Tin  boxes  must  hold 
biscuits  or  cakes.  Coffee  should  not  be  kept  in  quantities  unless  it  is 
unroastcd,  which  is  the  best  way  to  buy  it ;  the  berry,  if  not  roasted,  will 
improve  by  keeping  ;  if  roasted  it  loses  its  flavour,  even  when  kept  in  tins. 

Tallow  candles  should  be  purchased  in  March,  as  they  will  then  have 
been  made  in  the  winter,  and  will  keep  well.  We  have  written  largely  on 
the  subject  of  candles  in  "  Domestic  Science,"  to  which  we  refer  our 
readers  for  every  information  respecting  them. 

Soap  should  be  bought,  for  cheapness,  by  the  cwt.  if  possible  ;  if  not, 
by  the  bar ;  it  should  be  cut  in  pieces  for  use,  and  put  in  a  drawer,  or  on 
the  floor  of  the  store-room  to  dry  and  harden  slowly,  which  will  make  it 
last  much  longer. 

Starch  must  be  kept  in  a  dry  place. 

Sugar,  sweetmeats  and  salt,  must  be  kept  very  dry. 

Rice,  tapioca,  sago,  etc.,  must  be  kept  close  covered,  for  fear  of  insects. 


Stores  Required. —  Vinegar. 


197 


Lemons  should  be  purchased,  for  keeping,  in  June  or  July,  when  they 
are  cheapest.     They  must  hang  in  net  ted  bags. 

Eggs  may  be  preserved  by  brushing  over  with  gum,  and  laying  them 
in  a  cool  place,  or  they  may  be  washed  with  quicklime,  saltpetre,  and  an 
ounce  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Fresh  eggs  should  have  the  date  of  their  being  laid  written  on  them. 

The  housekeeper  should  always  have  also  a  ball  of  string,  a  hammer, 
nails,  a  pair  of  scissors,  and  a  box  of  gum  in  her  store-room. 

Spices  must  be  kept  in  tins.  Pickles  and  dry  preserves  and  lemon  peel 
in  glass  bottles,  which  may  be  hermetically  closed  by  means  of  gelatine  caps. 
Gelatine  mixed  with  glycerine  yields  a  compound  which  is  liquid  when 
hot,  but  becomes  solid  by  cooling,  at  the  same  time  retaining  much  elas- 
ticity. To  apply  it,  dip  the  neck  of  the  bottle  into  the  liquid  mixture,  and 
by  repeating  the  operation  the  cap  may  be  made  thicker. 

The  following  list  and  description  of  the  stores  which  the  housewife, 
(who  can  afford  a  full  store-room),  should  provide,  may  be  of  use  to 
beginners  : — 


Vinegar. 

Store  vinegars. 

Salt. 

Mustard. 

Pepper,  black  and  white 

Cayenne. 

Curry-powder. 

Olive  oil. 

Nutmegs. 

Mace. 

Cloves. 

Allspice. 

Ginger. 

Cinnamon. 

Soda. 

Carbonate  of  soda. 

Rice. 

Arrowroot. 

Potato  flour. 

Sago. 

Tapioca. 


Stores  Required. 

Semolina. 

Tous  les  mois. 

Maccaroni. 

Isinglass. 

Gelatine. 

Common  soap. 

Scented  soap. 

Starch. 

Stone  blue. 

Candles 

Colza  oil. 

Sand  paper. 

Glass  paper. 

Emery  paper. 

Blacklead. 

Fuller's  earth. 

Washing  powders. 

Currants. 

Prunes    and    French 

plums. 
Norfolk  biffens. 


Almonds. 
Raisins. 
Dates. 
Figs. 
Oranges. 
Lemons. 
Tea. 
Coffee. 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate. 
Sugar,  white, 
moist. 
Honey. 
Pickles. 
Preserves. 
Bottled  fruit. 
Sauces. 
Candied  peel : 

Lemon. 

Citron. 

Orange. 
House-flannel 


Vinegar; 

Vinegar  (acetic  acid)  is  the  acid  of  malt.  It  is  obtained  also  from 
various  other  sources — from  wine,  cider,  sugar,  and  wood.  Good  table 
vinegar  can  also  be  made  from  the  vinegar-plant. 

This  plant  is  a  kind  of  fungus  growing  on  wet  sugar  and  treacle,  and 
consists  of  a  gelatinous  substance  of  a  pale  brownish  colour.  If  placed 
in  a  jar  with  a  solution  of  sugar  and  water,  or  a  mixture  of  sugar,  treacle, 
ind  water,  and  allowed  to  remain  for  six  or  eight  weeks  in  a  kitchen  cup- 
board, the  solution  will  be  converted  into  vinegar ;  the  change  is  produced 


198  How  to  make  Vinegar,  etc. 

by  fermentation  caused  by  the  plant.  The  plant  grows  at  the  same  time, 
perpetually  doubling  itself  when  the  growth  is  removed. 

It  was  an  observation  made  by  Scheele,  but  the  fact  has  recently  been 
published  as  a  new  discovery,  that  ordinary  brown  vinegar  will  keep  bright 
and  clear  for  any  length  of  time  if  heated  to  the  boiling-point  for  a  few 
minutes. 

Vinegar  is  refrigerant  and  moderately  stimulating  applied  externally. 

How  to  make  Vinegar  at  Home. 

Fourteen  lbs.  of  moist  sugar,  7  gallons  of  hot  water,  8  quarts  of  cold 
water,  a  toast  spread  with  yeast. 

Put  the  sugar  into  7  gallons  of  water,  boil  and  skim  it  tho- 
roughly ;  then  pour  in  the  cold  water.  When  it  is  cool  put  in  a 
toast  spread  with  yeast  Stir  it  for  nine  days,  then  put  it  in  a  clean 
nine-gallon  cask.  Cover  the  bunghole  with  a  piece  of  slate,  and  set  the 
cask  in  the  sun.     It  will  be  ready  to  use  in  six  months. 

March  is  the  best  time  to  make  it.  Cost,  4s.  lod.  the  cask,  about  6\d. 
per  gallon. 

To  make  Cider  Vinegar. 

After  cider  has  become  too  sour  for  use,  set  it  in  a  warm  place ;  put  to 
it  occasionally  the  rinsings  of  the  sugar-basin  or  some  molasses  or  any 
remains  of  ale  or  cold-tea  ;  let  it  remain  with  the  bung  open,  and  you  will 
soon  have  the  best  of  vinegar. 

The  following  is  Dr.  Ure's  receipt  for  making  Malt-vinegar  : — 
"  One  boll  of  good  barley  malt  properly  crushed  is  to  be  mashed  with 
water  at  1600  Fahrenheit.  The  first  water  should  have  that  temperature. 
The  second  must  be  hotter  than  1600  ;  and  the  third  water,  for  the  extrac- 
tion of  all  the  soluble  matter,  may  be  boiling  hot.  Upon  the  whole  not 
more  than  100  gallons  of  wort  should  be  extracted.  After  the  liquor  has 
cooled  to  750  Fahrenheit,  three  or  four  gallons  of  beer  yeast  are  poured  in 
and  well  mixed  with  a  proper  stirrer.  In  thirty-six  or  forty  hours,  accord- 
ing to  the  temperature  of  the  air  and  the  fermenting  quality  of  the  mash, 
it  is  racked  off  into  casks,  which  are  laid  upon  their  sides  in  the  ferment- 
ing apartment  of  the  vinegar-works,  which  should  be  kept  at  a  tempera- 
ture of  700  at  least ;  in  summer  by  the  heat  of  the  sun,  or  by  stoves. 
The  bunghole  should  be  left  open,  and  the  casks  should  not  be  full  in 
order  that  the  air  may  act  over  an  extensive  surface  of  the  liquor.  It  would 
be  proper  to  secure  a  free  circulation  of  the  air  by  boring  a  hole  in  each 
end  of  the  cask  near  its  upper  end." 

How  to  make  the  Vinegar  Plant  Grow,  and  Vinegar  from  it. 

Get  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  the  same  of  treacle  ;  add  to 
them  three  pints  of  water ;  boil  all  together  and  put  in  a  pan  ;  cover  it 
over  with  net,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  six  weeks,  in  which  time  the 
plant  will  be  formed  from  the  sugar  and  treacle.  You  may  then  remove 
the  plant  and  boil  the  vinegar  :  get  a  fresh  supply  of  sugar,  water,  and 
treacle,  put  your  plant  on  it,  and  proceed  as  before  with  a  plant.  The 
vinegar  will  be  made  in  a  month. 


Store  Vinegars.  199 


How  to  detect  Adulteration  of  Vinegar  by  Minerals. 

Copper. — If  you  suspect  copper,  dip  a  clean  piece  of  iron  into  the 
vinegar  ;  if  copper  be  in  it  a  rose-colour  coating  of  copper  will  remain  on 
the  iron.     If  you  suspect 

Lead,  use  bisulphuret  of  soda.  If  put  in  vinegar  which  contains  lead, 
a  white  precipitate  will  remain — sulphuret  of  lead.     If 

Iron,  prussiate  of  potash  produces  a  blue  precipitate. 

There  are  various  modes  of  making  vinegar  with  acid  wines.  The 
most  simple  and  natural  consists  in  placing  the  wine  in  a  flat  tub,  and  leav- 
ing it  open  and  exposed  to  the  air  and  the  sun.  In  the  summer  it  will  re- 
quire from  six  weeks  to  two  months,  according  to  the  alcoholic  strength  of 
the  wine,  to  turn  it  into  vinegar.  In  the  winter,  when  the  influence  of  the 
sun  is  not  sufficiently  powerful  to  cause  the  evaporation  of  the  alcohol  in 
the  proportion  desired,  the  temperature  must  not  be  below  6o°  Fahren- 
heit. To  hasten  the  operation,  it  is  well  to  use  a  vessel  that  has  already 
held  vinegar,  and  then  to  add  to  the  wine  some  boiling  vinegar,  in  the 
proportion  of,  say,  ten  parts  of  vinegar  to  100  parts  of  the  wine,  leaving 
the  liquid  exposed  as  above  stated.  Another  mode  of  completely  acidu- 
lating the  wine  is  to  add  five  per  cent,  of  strong  acetic  acid  to  the  quantity 
of  wine.  Vinegar  can  thus  be  obtained  in  the  space  of  about  three  weeks. 
If  the  wine  be  red,  the  vinegar  will  be  red  also.  When  white  or  slightly 
coloured  vinegar  is  desired,  the  extra  colouring  matter  can  be  taken  off  by 
means  of  animal  charcoal.  For  this  purpose,  when  the  vinegar  is  tho- 
roughly made,  a  tap  is  affixed  to  the  cask  or  other  kind  of  vessel.  A  funnel 
of  about  six  inches  in  diameter  is  taken,  lined  with  ordinary  filtering  paper, 
and  filled  up  with  coarse-ground  animal  charcoal.  It  is  then  placed  in  a 
bottle  or  jar  under  the  tap,  and  the  liquid  is  allowed  to  drip  very  slowly 
through  it.  When  the  animal  charcoal  is  so  impregnated  with  the  colour- 
ing matter  of  the  liquid  that  it  decolorizes  it  no  more,  then  the  funnel 
must  be  emptied  and  replenished  with  fresh  filtering  paper  and  animal 
charcoal ;  the  vinegar  will,  however,  look  better  if  slightly  tinted.  The 
discoloring  process  can  accordingly  be  regulated. 

Store  Vinegars. 

Camp  VINEGAR. — Two  heads  of  garlic,  one  ounce  of  Cayenne  pepper, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  walnut  ketchup,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  soy  (or  instead, 
six  anchovies  chopped  up),  vinegar  one  pint.  Infuse  for  two  months. 
Strain  and  bottle. 

Horseradish  Vinegar  is  made  by  scraping  up  about  six  ounces  of 
the  root,  and  putting  it  into  three  pints  of  vinegar.  Let  it  stand  for  a 
fortnight  or  three  weeks  ;  then  strain  for  use,  and  bottle. 

Shallot,  Onion,  and  Garlic  Vinegar  are  made  in  the  same  way, 
by  putting  them  into  vinegar  in  the  proportion  of  1  oz.  to  1  pint  of  vinegar, 
letting  them  stand  for  a  fortnight ;  then  straining  and  bottling. 

Chilis  and  Capsicums.— In  the  proportion  of  an  ounce  to  a  pint  of 
vinegar.     Stand  a  fortnight  or  a  little  longer  ;  strain  and  bottle. 

Tarragon  Vinegar. — To  one  pound  of  tarragon  leaves,  one  gallon 
of  white-wine  vinegar.  The  vinegar  is  made  according  to  the  following 
receipt  : — Strip  off  the  leaves  just  as  the  plant  is  going  into  blossom, 


2oo  Sauces. — Salt. 


and  add  the  vinegar  in  the  above  proportions.  Put  it  into  a  stone  jar  to 
ferment  for  a  fortnight.  Then  run  it  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  to  every 
two  gallons  of  vinegar  put  one  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  dissolved 
in  a  little  cider.  Mix  it  well ;  let  it  stand  a  month  ;  then  bottle  it  and  tie 
it  down  closely. 

Cress  Vinegar. — Dry  and  pound  half  an  ounce  of  cress-seed  (the 
same  that  you  sow  with  Mustard-seed),  pour  on  it  a  quart  of  the  best 
vinegar  ;  let  it  infuse  for  ten  days  or  more.     Shake  it  every  day. 

Celery  Vinegar. — Half  a  pound  of  celery  seed,  one  pint  of  vinegar, 
a  little  salt  :  or,  ten  ounces  of  fresh  celery  root  cut  up  very  small.  Put  the 
celery  (or  seeds)  into  a  jar,  boil  the  vinegar  and  pour  it  over  them.  Set  it 
to  cool ;  bottle  it  in  wine  bottles,  and  cork  it  down.  Let  it  stand  fut  a 
month,  then  strain  it  into  small  bottles  and  cork  for  use. 

Cayenne  Vinegar. — One  ounce  of  good  Cayenne  to  one  quart  of  best 
vinegar.  Put  the  Cayenne  in  a  jar,  pour  the  vinegar  over  it  cold  ;  cover 
it  closely,  let  it  stand  for  a  month.  Then  strain  it  through  muslin  and 
bottle  for  use. 

Tomato  Vinegar. — Three  dozen  tomatoes,  half  a  pound  of  salt,  a  little 
mace,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  one  clove  of  garlic,  half  a  pint  of  mustard-seed, 
two  quarts  of  vinegar.  Quarter  the  tomatoes,  but  leave  the  bottoms  undi- 
vided, rub  half  a  pound  of  salt  over  them  and  place  them  in  a  wide- 
mouthed  jar  in  a  cool  oven,  or  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  two  days.  Add 
then  the  garhc,  spices  and  mustard-seed,  and  pour  over  all  the  vinegar 
boiling  hot.  Tie  a  bladder  over  the  jar,  and  let  it  stand  by  the  fire  for  five 
or  six  days,  shaking  it  well  every  day.  Put  it  by  in  the  same  jar  as  long 
as  convenient.  When  you  want  to  bottle  it,  press  out  and  strain  off  all  the 
liquor  ;  let  it  stand  several  hours  to  clear,  then  bottle  it. 

The  sediment  can  be  used  for  sauce  to  cutlets  at  once. 

A  Good  Acid  Sauce. — One  quart  of  vinegar,  half  a  bottle  of  soy, 
half  a  bottle  of  ketchup,  half  ounce  of  Chilis  and  four  or  five  shallots 
chopped  very  fine.  Put  all  into  a  jar  and  shake  every  day  for  a  week, 
and  then  bottle  for  use. 

SALT. 

Component  parts,  when  pure  :   39/4  parts  of  sodium  and  6o*6  chlorine. 

Salt  is  absolutely  required  for  the  support  of  health.  Upwards  of  half 
the  saline  matter  of  the  blood  consists  of  common  salt ;  the  necessity  of 
supplying  its  daily  waste  is  therefore  obvious.  It  has  been  known  for  ages 
past  that  without  salt  man  would  perish,  and  in  former  periods  of  history 
i  barbarous  punishment  (entailing  certain  death)  was  that  of  feeding  a 
culprit  on  food  destitute  of  salt.  It  is  required  in  the  bile  and  for  the  car- 
tilages of  the  body  ;  the  digestion  would  be  impaired  unless  it  were  sup- 
plied, and  the  cartilages  cannot  be  rebuilt  as  fast  as  they  waste  without 
its  aid. 

Table  salt  is  obtained  by  the  evaporation  of  water  from  brine  springs  ; 
it  is  also  dug  out  of  salt  mines. 

Salt  is  of  great  value  for  the  preservation  of  meat ;  it  prevents  the  de- 
composition of  flesh  at  a  temperature  below  6o°,  but  above  that  heat  it 
cannot  control  putrefaction.  It  is  therefore  scarcely  safe  to  salt  beef  or 
pork  in  very  hot  weather  unless  ice  be  used  in  the  pickling.     But  eve»  in 


Mustard. — Pepper.  201 


the  height  of  summer  meat  may  be  safely  cured  if  ice  enough  is  added  to 
the  pickle  to  keep  it  as  cool  as  55  degrees. 

Meat  is  salted  either  by  rubbing  salt  into  it  with  the  hand,  or  by  im- 
mersing it  in  pickle  or  brine.  The  flesh  absorbs  the  salt  and  gives  out  its 
watery  particles  in  return,  which  form  brine.  Sugar  is  used  in  addition 
to  salt,  and  is  no  doubt  a  valuable  agent  in  pickling,  for  this  reason — 
Oxygen  is  the  great  decomposing  agent,  that  is,  it  is  oxygen  which  causes 
decay.  Now  carbon  absorbs  oxygen,  and  as  sugar  contains  a  great  deal 
of  carbon  it  absorbs  the  oxygen,  and  thus  helps  the  salt  to  preserve  the 
meat.  These  would  be  about  the  ingredients  of  a  good  pickle  :  Four  and 
a  half  pounds  of  common  and  fine  salt,  three  gallons  of  water,  one  pound 
of  moist  sugar,  one  ounce  of  saltpetre,  half  an  ounce  of  salteratus.  For 
many  varied  and  all  good  modes  of  making  pickle  we  refer  the  reader  to 
Warne's  "  Model  Cookery  Book." 

Salt  in  store  must  be  kept  in  a  dry  place. 

Mustard 

Is  a  native  of  Europe,  and  was  introduced  into  England  before  1548. 
Our  readers  may  remember  how  Grumio  teased  "the  Shrew"  by  proposing 
"  the  mustard  without  the  beef;"  and  how  Bottom  spoke  to  Mustard-seed 
the  fairy  :  "  Good  Master  Mustard-seed,  I  know  your  patience  well ;  that 
same  cowardly,  giant-like  ox-beef  hath  devoured  many  a  gentleman  of  your 
house ;  I  promise  you  your  kindred  hath  made  my  eyes  water  ere  now." 
In  George  I/s  reign,  a  Mr.  Clements  prepared  and  sold  Durham 
mustard,  but  the  condiment  had  (on  the  above  authority)  been  long  pre- 
viously in  use. 

Mustard  is  of  the  easiest  culture  possible.  The  white  mustard,  which 
we  eat  in  its  seed  leaves  with  cress,  may  be  raised  by  spreading  the  seed 
in  a  saucer  on  wet  flannel. 

The  flour  of  mustard — mixed  for  the  table — is  made  from  the  ground 
seeds  of  the  black  mustard,  extensively  cultivated  in  England  for  that 
purpose 

A  good  supply  of  mustard  should  be  kept  in  the  storeroom  in  the  coun- 
try, as  it  is  a  valuable  article  in  cases  of  inflamation,  cold,  or  poisoning. 

The  seeds  of  the  black  mustard  contain  a  volatile  and  fixed  oil  of 
mustard,  and  two  substances  known  as  myronic  acid  and  myrocene. 
These  substances  are  not  found  in  white  mustard.  Myronic  acid  con- 
tains sulphur  and  nitrogen.  Myrocene  is  an  albuminous  matter  which 
coagulates  in  hot  water,  and  is  necessary  to  the  formation  of  the  essential 
oil.     Therefore  mustard  must  be  always  made  with  hot  water. 

Table  mustard  mixed  with  hot  water  is  a  strong  emetic,  and  spread  as 
a  poultice  will  relieve  cold  on  the  chest,  etc.  etc. 

Mustard  owes  its  peculiar  odour,  burning  taste,  and  blistering  quality 
to  its  volatile  oil,  which  resembles  that  of  horseradish. 

Pepper. 

Constituent  parti :  Acrid  resin— Essential  oil— Piperine. 

Pepper,  unlike  the  other  spices,  possesses  a  nitrogenized  principle, 
called  Piperine.     Its  effect  on  the  human  body  is  the  same  as  that  of  the 


202  Curry  Powder. — Olive  Oil. 

Theine  in  tea,  Caffeine  in  coffee,  and  Theobromine  in  cocoa  ;  consequently 
it  is  extremely  wholesome. 

Pepper  is  the  berry  of  the  pepper  plant  known  as  Piper  nigrum  and 
longum.  Black  pepper  is  the  entire  berry  of  the  Piper  nigrum  ground  ; 
white  pepper  is  the  same  berry  ground  without  its  husk  or  outer  covering. 
Peppercorns  are  these  berries  whole.  They  are  imported  from  Malabar, 
Sumatra,  and  Penang.  They  should  not  be  too  small  or  shrunk  in  drying, 
and  should  sink  in  water. 

The  Piperine  is  contained  in  the  white  or  internal  structure  of  the  berry. 

Cayenne  Pepper  is  made  from  the  pods  of  capsicum  plants.  This 
pod  consists  of  an  outer  skin  which  contains  a  principle  called  capiscin, 
very  powerful  on  the  oigans  of  sneezing  ;  an  inner  substance,  and  a  num- 
ber of  small  seeds.     The  whole  pod  is  ground  up  to  make  Cayenne. 

This  pepper  is  more  wickedly  adulterated  than  any  other  article  of 
food.  The  mixtures  with  it  being  red  lead,  Venetian  red,  red  ochre, 
vermilion,  and  common  salt.  There  is  no  possibility  of  defending  one's 
self  from  these  poisonous  deceptions  except  by  dealing  with  first-class 
tradesmen,  or  by  getting  friends  who  go  to  Africa  or  the  West  Indies  to 
bring  it  home  with  them.  We  know  a  lady  who  prepares  the  pepper 
herself  from  the  pods,  and  sells  it,  to  the  great  benefit  of  her  neighbours 
and  the  poor.     The  writer  uses  it  herself  in  preference  to  any  other. 

Dr.  Kitchener  gives  the  following  receipt  for  making  it  : — 

"  Four  hundred  large  chilies,  a  fourth  part  of  their  weight  in  salt. 
Take  away  the  stalks  and  put  the  pods  into  a  colander,  set  it  before  the 
fire  ;  they  will  take  twelve  hours  to  dry.  Then  pound  them  to  a  fine  pow- 
der in  a  mortar  with  the  salt.  Bottle  and  keep.  This  receipt  makes  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  Cayenne  pepper."* 

We  think  a  few  dried  Capsicums  might  be  added  with  advantage,  but 
unless  home-made  Cayenne  pepper  is  procured,  the  article  is  scarcely  ever 
pure.  Considering  its  importance  as  a  cure  for  one  kind  of  sore  throat, 
and  its  digestive  uses,  this  is  much  to  be  regretted. 

Curry  Powder. 

The  best  and  purest  is  to  be  bought  only  at  Apothecaries'  Hall. 

Curry  powder  is  adulterated  with  red  lead. 

Receipts  brought  from  India  for  excellent  curry  powder  are  given  in 
Warne's   "  Model   Cookery  Book  f   we   subjoin    another    original    one. 

Half  an  ounce  of  cayenne,  one  ounce  of  mustard,  half  an  ounce  of 
black  ground  pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  tur- 
meric, a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  coriander  seed,  one  ounce  of  pounded 
cinnamon,  one  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  two  ounces  of  fenugreek,  and  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  allspice,  mixed, 

Olive  Oil. 

The  flask  of  oil  must  be  kept  in  the  driest  and  above  all  darkest  place 
in  the  storeroom,  as  light  injures  it  very  much.  Olive  oil  is  demulcent  and 
laxative.     It  is  an  antidote  to  some  poisons,  and  applied  warm  to  the 

*  One  hundred  chilies  will  make  two  ounces  of  Cayenne. 


Nutmegs. — Cloves. — -Pimento. — Ginger 


skin  is  an  emollient ;  combined  with  hartshorn,  it  is  used  as  an  external 
stimulant.  The  persecution  of  musquitoes  and  of  our  own  midges  may  be 
prevented  by  slightly  brushing  olive  oil  over  the  skin.  It  is  used  in 
cookery  for  salads,  mayonaise  and  frying  fish. 

Nutmegs  and  Mace 

Are  the  fruit  of  the  nutmeg  tree,  of  which  there  are  three  species— 
Myristica  fragrans,  Myristica  fatua,  Myristica  malabarica.  This  tree 
resembles  the  pear  tree.  Its  fruit  is  like  a  large  pear  in  shape, 
and  is  smooth  externally.  The  outer  or  fleshy  part  is  the  pericarp. 
When  ripe  it  separates  lengthwise,  and  within  is  the  seed  or  nutmeg 
enclosed  in  two  coverings  ;  the  mace  fills  up  the  space  between  the 
seed  and  the  pericarp.  The  true  or  best  nutmeg  is  the  seed  of  the 
Myristica  fragrans ;  an  inferior  kind  called  the  false  nutmeg  is  procured 
from  the  other  two  species.  The  true  nutmeg  is  round  and  of  an  aromatic 
smell  or  flavour ;  the  false  nutmeg  may  be  distinguished  from  it  by  being 
longer  and  paler.* 

To  Select  Nutmegs,  prick  them  with  a  pin.  If  they  are  good,  the 
oil  will  instantly  spread  around  the  puncture. 

Mace  follows,  of  course,  and  is  either  true  or  false.  The  good  mace  is 
orange  yellow,  transparent,  and  horny  ;  the  inferior  or  false  is  of  a  dark 
red  colour,  and  has  little  flavour  or  smell.  There  is  a  fixed  and  volatile 
oil  in  the  nutmeg  which,  if  the  seeds  are  eaten  alone  and  in  any  quantity, 
will  produce  intoxication. 

Cloves. 
Constituents :  Essential  oil — Resin — Tannin — Woody  fibre. 

Cloves  are  the  fruit,  or  rather  the  cup  of  the  unopened  flowers  of  the 
clove  tree,  Caryophyllus  aromaticus,  a  native  of  the  Moluccas,  or  Clove 
Islands.  Cloves  are  shaped  like  a  nail,  whence  the  name,  from  the  French 
word  clou,  a  nail.  Good  cloves  have  a  strong,  fragrant,  aromatic  odour, 
and  a  hot  acrid  taste,  which  is  very  permanent. 

Pimento,  or  Allspice. 

Constituents :  Essential  oil— *Gum— Resinous  matter — Astringent  extract 

and  fatty  oil. 

Pimento  is  the  berry  of  the  pimento  tree,  growing  in  the  West  Indies. 

Ginger. 
Constituents:  Gum— Starch— Woody  fibre— Volatile  oil— Acrid  resin. 

Ginger  is  the  root  of  a  perennial  plant  called  Zingiber  Officinale,  growing 
in  Asia,  Africa,  and  the  Tropics  of  America.  The  roots  are  dug  up  at  the 
end  of  the  first  year  and  prepared  for  selling.  It  is  sometimes  imported 
from  Jamaica,  preserved  as  green  ginger,  and  is  very  delicious. 

Ginger  owes  its  pungency  to  its  volatile  oil. 


*  If  a  nutmeg  is  grated  at  the  stalk  end  it  will  be  hollow  all  the  way  through, 
while  if  grated  from  the  solid  end  it  will  be  solid  throughout. 


2  04  Cinnamo?i. — Soda.  — Rice.  — Arrowroot. 

Ground  ginger  is  adulterated  with  sago,  wheat  flour,  cayenne  pepper, 
mustard  husks,  and  turmeric  powder. 

Ginger  makes  a  milder  poultice  for  face-ache,  etc.,  than  mustard,  and  is 
of  use  in  cases  of  flatulency.     It  is  also  good  for  gouty  persons. 

Preserved  ginger  is  very  delicious.  It  may  be  well  imitated  at  home 
by  preserving  ends  of  cos  lettuce  stalks  with  ground  ginger,  etc.  etc. 

Cinnamon. 

Cinnamon  is  the  bark  of  the  Cinnamo?nu?n,  a  tree  cultivated  chiefly  in 
Ceylon,  and  also  in  Bombay,  Malabar,  and  Java.  The  three-years-old 
branches  are  peeled  for  the  bark,  and  it  is  dried  in  the  sun.  The  flavour 
of  cinnamon  is  much  liked  ;  a  very  little  of  it  flavours. 

The  Cassia — the  bark  of  the  Cimiamornum  Cassia — is  sometimes  sold 
for  the  true  cinnamon,  but  it  is  not  so  sweet,  and  has  a  slightly  bitter  taste. 

Mixed  spice  is  a  compound  of  ginger,  pimento,  cassia,  etc.  etc.  It  is 
never  required  by  a  good  cook,  who  should  be  able  to  flavour  more  skilfully 
than  this  mixture  does. 

Soda, 

Soda,  or  bicarbonate  of  soda,  is  manufactured  by  the  decomposition  of 
common  salt.     It  is  used  for  household  and  cleansing  purposes. 

Carbonate  of  Soda  is  useful  for  making  effervescing  draughts  and 
other  purposes.  It  has  also  the  power  of  altering  the  colour  of  plants 
when  it  is  put  round  the  roots. 

Eice. 

The  constituent  parts  of  rice  are  in  i  lb. 
Oz.   Grs. 


Water 2  70 

Gluten 1  17 

Starch n  380 

Sugar o  27 


Oz.   Grs. 

Gum o      68 

Fat  or  Oil  ....  o  48 
Woody  fibre  .  .  .  o  230 
Ashes o      34 


Rice  is  not  as  nourishing  as  other  cereals,  though,  of  course,  its  use  as 
food  by  the  populations  of  Hindostan  shows  that  it  will  sustain  life ; 
but  as  we  have  shown,  it  takes  four  pounds  thirteen  ounces  to  supply 
five  ounces  of  flesh-forming  matter  to  a  working  man.  Rice  makes 
fat,  and  it  has  a  tendency  to  constipate  the  bowels,  consequently  it 
is  given  in  cases  of  cholera  and  diarrhoea.  The  rices  are  Carolina,  from 
America,  Patna,  Bengal,  Madras,  Arracan,  and  Java.  Carolina  is  much 
the  best ;  Patna  next ;  Madras  rice  is  the  cheapest.  It  is  well  not  to 
have  too  much  rice  in  stock  at  once. 

Ground  rice  makes  nice  custard  puddings,  a  good  Blancmange,  and 
fritters.     It  is  never  used  in  any  other  way. 

Arrowroot. 

Arrowroot  is  a  starch  obtained  from  the  roots  of  many  plants. 

There  is  the  Maranta  Arundinacea,  Tacca  Oceana,  Manihot,  and 
Curcu?na  roots.  Of  these,  the  Maranta  arrowroot  is  considered  the  best, 
and  is  sold  in  England  by  the  name  of  Bermuda  or  Jamaica  arrowroot. 


Sago. — Tapioca. — Semo/ina,  etc,  205 

Arrowroot  will  not  sustain  life  alone,  though  it  makes  pleasant  pud- 
dings, fritters,  a  clear  jelly,  and  a  milk  posset. 

Potato  flour  makes  a  nice  imitation  arrowroot  pudding,  and  is  much 
better  for  thickening  gravies  than  common  wheat  flour. 

The  goodness  of  arrowroot  may  be  tested  by  letting  the  transparent 
jelly  made  from  it  stand  for  twenty-four  hours,  when,  if  the  jelly  becomes 
thin,  the  arrowroot  is  pure.     Arrowroot  varies  greatly  in  price. 

Sago. 

Sago  is  the  pith  of  an  Indian  palm  called  Sagus  iavis.  This  pith 
is  steeped  in  water,  becomes  a  paste,  and  is  rubbed,  when  half  dried, 
through  a  perforated  plate,  which  causes  it  to  be  easily  formed  into  little 
balls. 

Tapioca. 

Tapioca  is  the  pith  of  the  Manihot  tree,  washed  like  sago,  but  formed 
into  different  shapes  from  that  pulp.  It  is  brought  from  Brazil  and  the 
East  Indies.  Tapioca  is  very  nutritious  and  easy  of  digestion  ;  boiled 
in  milk,  or  with  fruit,  or  as  a  pudding,  or  in  soup,  it  is  equally  good 
and  nourishing. 

Semolina 

Is  a  preparation  of  wheat  flour— very  nourishing. 

Tous  les  Mois 

Is  prepared  from  the  pith  of  the  Camm  edulis,  but  more  commonly  from 
wheat  flour. 

Rice,  Sago,  or  Semolina  Pudding. 

Boil  two  large  spoonfuls  of  rice,  etc.,  in  milk,  with  sugar,  lemon-peel,  or 
a  laurel-leaf  until  tender.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  mix  them 
with  the  rice,  etc.,  and  milk  when  lukewarm.  Let  it  stand  until  cold,  and 
just  before  you  want  to  bake  it,  beat  up  the  two  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
mix  it  in  the  dish  with  the  rice  and  yolks  ;  bake  it  before  the  fire  or  in  a 
Dutch-oven. 

Maizena. 

Maizena  is  a  preparation  of  corn-flour. 

Maizena  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  maizena,  two  eggs,  essence 
of  lemon  or  vanilla,  sugar  to  taste  ;  some  candied  citron  and  orange-peel. 

Beat  thoroughly  five  spoonfuls  of  maizena  with  two  eggs  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  flavour  it  with  lemon  or  vanilla  ;  put  the  milk  over  a 
clear  fire,  sweeten  it  to  taste,  and  when  on  the  point  of  boiling  stir  in  very 
briskly  the  maizena,  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring  it  all  the  time  ; 
place  green  citron  cut  into  pieces  over  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  wet 
mould  ;  pour  out  the  maizena,  adding  pieces  of  orange-peel  as  it  is 
poured  in.    When  cold  turn  it  out  on  a  glass  dish. 


2o6  Maccaroni. — Isinglass. — Gelatine. — Soap. 


Maccaroni  and  Vermicelli 

Are  preparations  of  wheat  flour.  The  flour  is  mixed  with  water  and  then 
forced  through  perforated  plates  of  a  larger  or  smaller  size.  The  macca- 
roni is  forced  through  large  holes — the  vermicelli  through  very  small  ones. 
There  is  also  a  ribbon-maccaroni  manufactured,  which  is  not  bad.  Mac- 
caroni varies  very  much  in  quality. 

To  Dress  Maccaroni. 

Put  the  maccaroni  into  boiling  water,  and  let  it  be  kept  boiling  until 
soft,  then  let  it  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  put  it  on  a  dish  to  serve.  Make  a 
sauce  with  cream,  butter,  and  flour,  and  grated  cheese.  Mix  all,  and  pour 
over  the  maccaroni,  then  grate  some  cheese  over  the  top  and  brown. 

Isinglass. 

Isinglass  is  made  from  the  swimming-bladder  of  the  sturgeon,  and 
from  other  fish.  It  is  a  gelatinous  substance,  and  is  imported  from  Russia, 
Brazil,  and  the  East  and  West  Indies.     Russian  isinglass  is  the  best. 

Ribbon-isinglass  is  made  from  the  intestines  of  the  cod. 

Gelatine. 

Gelatine  is  extracted  from  the  bones  and  hoofs  of  animals,  by  boiling 
them  at  a  high  temperature.  Anything  which  contains  gelatine  may  be 
made  into  it.  Gelatine  is  very  low-priced.  It  will  make  jellies,  etc.,  quite 
well.  The  smell  of  dissolving  gelatine  is  like  boiling  glue.  The  smell  of 
dissolving  isinglass  is  fishy. 

If  the  housewife  has  any  doubt  of  the  genuineness  of  the  isinglass  sold 
to  her,  the  above  test  is  a  simple  and  sure  one. 

Soap. 

This  useful  article  should  be  bought  in  quantities  ;  say,  half  cwt.  or 
cwt.  at  a  time,  if  the  family  be  large  ;  if  small,  it  should  be  bought  by  the 
four  bars  at  once.  A  bar  contains  about  three  pounds  of  soap.  The  reason 
for  buying  a  quantity  at  once  is  that  it  hardens  by  keeping,  and  therefore 
does  its  work  of  cleansing  without  so  much  waste  in  the  water.  The  bars 
should  be  cut  into  moderate  sized  pieces  for  use  with  a  fine  twine,  they 
will  harden  better  than  if  it  be  left  in  the  bar.  Scented  soap  should  also 
be  kept  for  use.  If  shape  is  not  an  object,  pieces  of  scented  soap  of  the 
best  kind  may  be  purchased  very  cheaply  of  any  of  the  great  manufac- 
turers. These  are  the  bits  cut  off  in  forming  the  pats,  which,  of  course, 
they  quite  equal,  except  in  shape.  They  are  sold  by  the  pound.  Soap 
is  made  ot  fat,  exposed  to  the  action  of  a  caustic  alkali,  which  produces  on 
it  a  peculiar  change  called  saponification. 

Almost  every  kind  of  fat  or  oil  has  been  used,  at  different  times,  for  soap. 
Of  oils,  those  of  hemp-seed,  rape-seed,  cocoa  nut,  beech-seed,  poppy-seed, 
palms,  almonds  and  nuts.    Fat  of  any  kind  (such  as  tallow,  etc.)  is  also  used 


Soap. — Starch.  207 

for  soaps.  The  alkalies  used  to  make  soap  are  potash  or  soda.  Yellow  soap 
is  made  of  whale  oil,  soda  and  resin  ;  soft  soap,  of  oil  and  potash  ;  hard 
soap  of  oil  and  soda.  Soda-made  soap  consists  of  about  61  parts  of  fat  or 
oil,  84  of  soda,  and  30!  of  water.  Some  portion  of  the  water  will  evaporate 
if  it  be  kept  in  a  dry  place.  In  common  yellow  soap,  whale  oil,  or  palm  oil 
and  resin,  are  used  with  the  soda.  Soap  made  of  tallow  and  potash  con- 
sists of  about  28  parts  of  fat,  12  of  potash,  and  29  of  water.  This,  as  we 
have  said,  is  soft-soap.  Mottled  soap  is  made  by  mixing  a  solution  of 
the  sulphate  of  iron  with  common  hard  white  soap  while  it  is  still  in  a 
melting  state.  The  alkali  in  the  soap  decomposes  the  sulphate,  and  black 
oxide  of  iron  is  deposited  in  streaks  through  the  soap. 

Brown  Windsor  is  hard  white  soap  coloured  with  burnt  umber  and 
scented. 

Glycerine  soap  is  made  with  hog's  lard,  oil  of  almonds,  nut-oil,  palm- 
oil,  or  suet  and  soda,  with  glycerine  added  to  it. 

Honey  soap  has  no  honey  in  it ;  it  is  simply  the  same  compound  as 
glycerine,  with  the  essential  oil  of  citronella  added  to  it. 

Marseilles  white  soap  consists  of  soda  and  olive  oil,  with  water.  Cas- 
tile soap  of  the  same  materials,  with  more  olive  oil  and  soda,  and  less 
water.     It  has  also  colouring  matter  in  it.     These  soaps  are  expensive. 

Common  soft-soap  is  made  with  coarse  fish  oil ;  white  soft-soap  with 
potash  and  tallow,  as  we  have  before  said.  Green  soap  is  made  with 
vegetable  oils,  such  as  rape-  and  poppy-seed  oil ;  soft-soap  can  be  made 
hard  by  the  addition  of  common  salt  when  it  is  in  process  of  making. 

The  best  soap  for  the  skin  is  the  very  best  yellow  soap  ;  it  softens  it 
excessively,  and  when  nibbed  in  instead  of  being  washed  off,  it  is  useful 
as  an  external  remedy  for  rheumatism,  and  used  to  be  prescribed  by  Sir 
William  Fergusson. 

Soap  is  sold — yellow,  at  about  \\d.  per  lb. ;  mottled,  about  \d.  per  lb. ; 
scented  soap  is  sold  by  the  pat,  or  bar,  is.  per  bar,  3d.  or  \d.  per  pat. 

Carbolic  soap  is  a  valuable  preparation,  as  it  has  great  disinfecting 
powers,  and  should  always  be  used  in  washing  the  linen  of  fever  patients.  It 
possesses  also  great  cleansing  power  without  injuring  the  material  on  which 
it  is  used.  Its  use  is  fatal  also  to  house  insects.  There  is  also  a  carbolic 
toilette  soap  which  is  excellent  in  hot  weather  for  the  skin.  The  Kalydor 
soap  is  also  very  good  for  the  skin. 

The  following  process  for  making  soap  is  practised  by  emigrants  : — 
Two  or  three  gallons  of  clean  water  are  poured  upon  about  a  bushel  of 
wood  ashes,  thoroughly  stirred,  and  the  ash  is  allowed  to  subside.  The 
liquid,  which  is  now  a  lye,  is  drawn  off  and  boiled  for  two  or  three  hours 
with  fat  of  any  description.  At  the  end  of  that  time  the  fat  will  have  as- 
sumed the  consistency  of  soap.  It  is  allowed  to  settle,  and  the  liquor  is 
then  drawn  off,  being  no  longer  of  any  use.  The  residue,  although  soft, 
will  answer  every  purpose  for  which  soap  is  used. 

Starch. 

Starch  is  an  important  constituent  part  of  food,  as  it  assists,  with 
sugar  and  gum,  in  forming  the  fat  of  the  body,  and  in  carrying  on  the 
respiratory  process  ;  but,  separately,  it  is  used  for  stiffening  and  glazing 
muslins,  etc.  etc.,  which  are  thus  preserved  clean  longer,  as  well  as  made  to 


2 o8  Stone  Blue. — Candles. 


look  better.  Clear  starching  was  introduced  in  the  reign  of  James  I.,  and 
the  first  clear  starchers  were  Dutch  women.  The  yellow  starch,  intro- 
duced and  made  fashionable  by  the  infamous  Mrs.  Turner,  who  was  hung 
for  assisting  in  the  murder  of  Sir  Thomas  Overbury  in  the  Tower,  went 
out  of  fashion  at  her  death,  as  she  was  hung  in  a  yellow  starched  ruff. 

Many  vegetable  substances  afford  starch ;  the  chief  are  wheat,  rice 
and  potatoes.  Arrowroot  also  makes  a  delicate  but  expensive  starch. 
Wheat  starch  is  made  by  soaking  the  grain  in  cold  water  till  the  husk  sepa- 
rates and  the  farina  is  softened — i.e.,  till  the  grains  are  full  of  milky  matter. 
The  mass  of  grains  thus  softened  is  then  put  under  pressure,  which  forces 
out  the  milky  fluid.  This  is  let  stand  for  some  days.  A  slight  fermenta- 
tion takes  place  ;  the  gluten  is  decomposed  and  changed  into  acetic  acid 
and  alcohol,  while  the  starch  remains  undissolved.  It  is  taken  out  and 
washed  in  cold  water,  then  slightly  coloured  with  blue  and  heated  in  an 
oven  until  it  cracks  into  the  pieces  in  which  we  buy  it. 

Rice  starch  is  procured  much  in  the  same  way,  but  as  it  contains 
almost  no  gluten  it  is  made  more  easily. 

Potato  starch  is  made  by  grating  raw  potatoes  into  a  vessel  full  of  clear 
water,  and  after  sluicing  it  well,  letting  the  mass  settle.  The  water  is 
poured  off  and  fresh  water  added  three  times j  then  the  starch  remains 
at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel. 

Arrowroot  starch  is  made  by  simply  pouring  a  little  boiling  water  on 
the  powder. 

Starch  will  not  dissolve  in  cold  water  ;  it  requires  boiling  water.  Its 
price  is  from  $d.  to  M.  per  lb.     It  should  be  kept  in  a  jar,  in  a  dry  place. 

Stone-blue. 

Stone-blue  is  merely  indigo  reduced  by  adding  whiting  or  starch.  It 
is  used,  tied  in  a  bag,  to  blue  water  into  which  .washed  linen  or  muslin  is 
dipped.     Powder-blue  is  smalt  mixed  with  a  very  little  starch. 

Candles. 

The  manufacture  and  chemistry  of  candles  have  already  been  so  fully 
described  in  "  Domestic  Science,"  that  we  have  little  more  to  add 
respecting  them,  except  that  tallow  candles  are  the  better  for  keeping, 
and  that  winter-made  candles  last  longer  than  those  made  in  the  summer. 
Prices  of  all  kinds  vary  very  much.     They  are  chiefly, 

Wax.  Belmontine.  Field's  Ozokerit. 

Sperm.  Price's.  Dips  (tallow). 

Rock  candles  and  half-hour  candles,  is.  per  box  of  60,  useful  for  timing 
the  going  to  bed  of  servants  and  children. 

Ozokerit  candles  are  the  last  novelty.  Ozokerit  is  from  the  Greek  ozo 
11 1  smell  of" — keros, "  wax."  It  is  a  vegetable  wax,  and  in  its  raw  and  native 
state  is  of  a  yellowish  colour,  of  light  specific  gravity,  and  somewhat 
fibrous  in  its  structure.  It  will  not  burn  of  itself,  but  will  readily  melt  on 
a  light  being  applied  to  it.  On  being  roughly  wrapped  around  a  centre, 
even  in  its  native  state,  it  easily  and  readily  consumes.  In  fact,  a  rude 
candle  can  be  made  of  the  raw  material  and  a  cotton  wick.    It  is  found 


Oil. — Sand  and  Glass  Paper.  209 


principally  in  Austria,  Moldavia,  the  Caucasus,  and  near  the  Caspian  Sea, 
where  it  is  obtained  in  great  quantities,  being  largely  used  in  those  coun- 
tries for  illuminating  purposes.  It  was  discovered,  about  two  years  since, 
by  a  Russian  military  officer,  who  communicated  the  fact  to  M.  Gustav 
Siemssen,  who  has  introduced  it  into  England.  These  candles  are  much 
liked,  as  they  remain  hard  at  a  high  temperature. 

Wax  candles  which  have  turned  yellow  may  be  whitened  by  rubbing 
them  with  a  spong  dipped  in  a  little  spirits  of  wine. 

Savealls  are  used  by  all  economical  people  for  burning  up  ends  of 
candles  and  saving  waste. 

Oil. 

Colza-oil  is  that  which  is  chiefly  in  use  in  families  for  the  moderator- 
lamp.  It  is  the  oil  of  the  Brassica  Arvensis,  which  is  grown  in  France 
and  Belgium.  It  is  pressed  from  the  seed,  and  purified  and  whitened  by 
sulphuric  acid.  It  is  often  adulterated  by  mixture  with  the  oil  of  the 
Brassica  rapus — i.e.,  clarified  rape-oil.  When  pure  it  does  not  smoke, 
and  has  no  unpleasant  smell.  Both  the  light  and  cleanliness  of  the  lamp 
depend  greatly  on  the  purity  of  this  oil. 

Petroleum  and  Paraffin  lamps  cannot  be  recommended.  They  always 
smell  unpleasantly,  and  the  latter  are  attended  with  some  risk.  Insurance 
offices  expect  a  higher  rate  of  premium  where  paraffin  is  used.  If,  however, 
it  is  made  use  of,  it  should  be  tested  out  of  doors  before  it  is  put  into  the 
lamp,  by  pouring  a  very  little  into  a  flowerpot-saucer  and  applying  a  light 
to  it.     If  it  does  not  explode  it  may  be  used. 

Sand,  Glass,  and  Emery  Papers. 

Sand  paper  and  glass  paper  are  made  of  sand  or  powdered  glass 
glued  on  to  cartridge-paper.     Price  \d.  per  sheet. 

Emery  is  a  stone  ground  in  mills  and  suspended  in  water.  The  finer 
sort  is  found  in  the  water  drawn  off  first ;  the  coarser  follows.  It  is  glued 
on  paper  in  the  same  way  as  sand  and  glass,  or  can  be  used  in  the  powder. 
It  should  be  bought  at  the  best  shops,  as  there  is  great  difference  in  it. 
Good  emery  paper  will  last  for  two  or  three  cleanings  ;  the  bad  rubs  off 
the  first  time.     Price  \d.  a  sheet. 

To  make  Emery  Cloth. — Buy  some  emery  powder.  By  washing  in 
water  (as  before  explained),  get  the  different  degrees  of  coarseness,  cover 
a  piece  of  thin  cotton  cloth  with  a  light  layer  of  glue,  sprinkle  over  it  the 
powdered  emery.    But  it  is  better  to  buy  the  cloth  all  ready. 

To  make  Glass-paper. — Take  any  quantity  of  brokeu  window-glass, 
that  which  has  rather  a  green  appearance  on  the  edge  is  /.he  best,  pound 
it  in  an  iron  mortar,  then  have  two  or  three  sieves  of  different  degrees  of 
fineness  ready  for  use  when  wanted.  Take  any  good  tough  paper  (fine 
cartridge  is  the  best),  level  the  lumps  on  both  sides  with  pumice- 
stone,  tack  it  at  each  corner  on  a  board,  and  with  good  clean  glue,  diluted 
with  about  one-third  more  water  than  is  used  generally  for  wood-work,  go 
quickly  over  the  paper,  taking  care  to  spread  it  even  with  your  brush  ; 
then,  having  your  sieve  ready,  sift  the  pounded  glass  over  it  lightly,  but  to 
cover  it  in  every  part  ;  let  it  remain  till  the  glue  is  set,  take  it  from  the 
board,  shake  off  the  superfluous  glass  into  the  sieve,  and  hang  it  in  the 

P 


2 1  o  Dried  Fruits.  — Almo?ids. — Raisins.  —  Currants. 

shade  to  dry ;  in  two  or  three  days  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  This  paper  will 
be  much  better  than  most  of  that  which  you  can  buy,  sand  being  fre- 
quently mixed  with  the  glass,  and  coloured  to  deceive  the  purchaser. 

Elacklead  is  a  carburet  of  iron,  and  consists  of  92  parts  of  iron  and 
3  of  charcoal.     Price  6d.  per  lb.  or  10s.  per  cwt. 

Fuller's  earth  is  of  a  greyish  brown  colour.  It  is  scraped  off  when 
required  for  use,  and  absorbs  grease  easily. 

Washing  powders  are  made  chiefly  of  alkalies,  and  have  the  effect  of 
pearlash  or  potash.     They  remove  grease  in  washing,    id.  per  packet. 

DRIED    FRUITS. 

Prunes  are  dried  plums.  French  plums  are  the  best  dried  plums. 
Prunes  are  chiefly  used  for  stewing.     French  plums  are  fit  for  dessert. 

Normandy  Biffens  are  apples  dried  in  stove  heat  till  they  look  shri- 
velled.    They  are  excellent  stewed  in  syrup. 

Almonds, 

Constituent  parts :  Gum — Albumen — Sugar — Woody  fibre— Fixed  oil. 

The  almonds  (sweet  and  bitter)  are  the  kernels  of  two  varieties  of  a 
stone  fruit-tree  growing  in  Spain,  Italy,  and  Barbary.  An  essential  oil  of 
a  highly  poisonous  nature  is  distilled  from  the  bitter  almond.  Of  sweet 
almonds,  the  Jordan  are  thought  the  best  for  dessert. 

Raisins, 

Raisins  are  simply  dried  grapes. 

Constituent  parts  of  the  grape  in  1  lb. 

Oz.  Grs. 
Albumen o     158 


Oz.   Grs. 

Water 10    222 

Glucose  or  Grape-sugar     1     316 
Gum o      79 


Tartaric  Acid      .     .     .     o       50 
Ashes o      50 


Grapes  are  dried  for  raisins  in  the  sun  or  by  stove  heat.  Those  dried 
in  the  sun — called  raisins  of  the  sun — are  thought  much  the  best.  The 
common  raisins  dried  in  stoves  are  often  very  dirty  and  mixed  with  much 
refuse  matter.     The  Sultana  is  a  stoneless  raisin — very  good  in  puddings. 

There  are  Muscatels,  Smyrna,  Valencia,  Eleme'  raisins,  and  the  Sultanas 
already  named. 

Currants, 

Currants  are  the  small  grape  of  Corinth  and  the  Ionian  islands  dried. 
They  are  very  indigestible  even  cooked.  It  is  cheapest  to  buy  the  verr 
best,  as  the  weight  of  the  common  ones  is  affected  by  the  dirt  mixed  wit* 
thorn. 


'Hr 


2.   Bed  ('nishillr.i'il  Ora/njcs.      3.  Crystallized  Currants.  6.   Thatched  hiddinA 

'.'.  Barberries.  -/.  Oiwwe   Compote,,  7.    Green   Caps. 

5.   Maixena  /'//< •/, ■Inn/. 


The  JDate.—Fk 


Oranges. 


211 


The  Date, 

Constituent  parts  in  I  lb. 


Oz.  Grs. 

Water 3     257 

Albumen 1         o 

Fibrin o       18 

Sugar 8       21 


Fat  ...  . 
Gum.  .  .  . 
Woody  fibre  . 
Ash  .     .. 


Oz.  Grs. 

o  14 

2  330 

o  140 

o  08 


The  date  has  been  justly  called  "  the  Bread  of  the  Desert,"  for  multi- 
tudes of  the  Arab  tribes  scattered  over  the  sandy  regions  of  Egypt  and 
Arabia  live  chiefly  on  this  fruit.  It  grows  amid  parched  sands  and  arid 
wastes ;  wherever  a  spring  of  water  appears  in  the  desert,  this  elegant 
palm  is  found,  yielding  to  the  wearied  traveller  both  shelter  and  food.° 

Preserved  Dates  are  very  useful  in  the  English  household  for  dessert 
and  also  for  an  especially  good  pudding.  Before  sending  up  for  dessert 
they  should  be  put  for  a  few  minutes  into  boiling  water  to  wash  them  • 
this  plumps  them  up,  and  makes  them  look  better.  They  are  very 
nourishing.  Bread  and  butter  and  a  date  or  two  make  a  good  li^ht 
supper. 

The  Fig, 
Constituents  of  1  lb.  of  dried  figs  ; 


Oz.    Grs. 

Water 2    254 

Gluten o    420 

Glucose 9     328 

Woody  fibre   .     .     .     .     1     263 


Oz.  Grs. 

Starch o  210 

Gum.     ......     o  70 

Fat o  63 

Ashes    .,...,    o  140 


Oranges. 
In  season  :  November  to  June. 
Enormous  numbers  of  oranges  are  imported  yearly  into  England,  and 
are  of  the  greatest  value  in  the  household,  being  most  wholesome  and 
greatly  needed  by  people  who  feed  as  much  as  we  do  on  a  meat  diet. 
Oranges  are  brought  from  Spain,  Portugal,  the  Azores,  Malta  (the  blood- 
orange  is  peculiar  to  the  island)*  and  Madeira.  St.  Michael  and  China 
oranges  are  also  much  liked.  Oranges  are  eaten  as  dessert  fruit,  and 
also  make  a  delicious  compote  and  fritters.  Orange  Marmalade,  the  pre- 
serve of  Scotland,  needs  no  mention,  though  we  beg  to  add  to  the  many 
excellent  receipts  already  known,  two  more  of  superlative  goodness. 

Grated  Marmalade. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  oranges  off,  then  squeeze  the  pulp  through 
a  sieve,  using  a  little  water,  say  about  a  pint  to  four  pounds  of 
oranges  ;  then  put  on  to  boil  with  the  sugar,  one  pound  to  one  pound  of 
fruit,  and  the  gratings  ;  boil  till  you  find  the  gratings  soft,  or  about  half 
an  hour.     You  may  add  a  lemon. 


*  The  Maltese  blood-orange  is  produced  from  the  common  orange-bud  grafted 
on  the  pomegranate  stock.     The  juice  is  as  red  as  blood  and  of  fine  flavour. 

P   2 


2i2  Marmalade. — Orange  Compote. — Lemons. 


Marmalade  with  Chips, 

To  each  pound  of  oranges  put  two  pints  of  water  and  two  pounds  of 
sugar.  The  oranges  to  be  peeled,  and  the  peel  cut  into  thin  chips,  the 
pulp  and  juice  bruised  together,  and  nothing  kept  out  but  the  seeds. 
The  whole  is  then  put  into  a  brass  pan  and  boiled  for  three  hours  and  a 
half,  when  the  sugar  is  added  and  boiled  half  an  hour  longer  on  a  slow 
fire.    Two  lemons  to  six  pounds  of  oranges. 

Orange  Compote. 

Time,  five  or  six  minutes. 

One  pound  of  sugar — eight  oranges — a  pint  and  a  half  of  water. 

Boil  a  pound  of  sugar  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  with  the  peel  oi 
eight  oranges  cut  very  thin,  for  nearly  twenty  minutes,  removing  the  scum 
as  it  rises.  After  the  oranges  are  peeled,  remove  all  the  white  pith  without 
breaking  the  inner  skin,  divide  them  into  quarters,  and  put  them  into  the 
syrup,  and  let  them  simmer  for  five  or  six  minutes  ;  then  take  them  care- 
fully out  with  a  skimmer  or  spoon,  and  arrange  them  in  the  centre  of  a 
glass  dish  (as  in  plate)  with  the  skins  downwards.  Boil  the  syrup  until 
thick,  and  when  cool,  pour  it  carefully  over  the  orange  quarters,  and  set 
them  in  a  cold  place  until  ready  to  serve. 

Red  Crystallized  Oranges. 

Take  off  the  skin  and  pith  from  some  China  oranges,  taking  care  not 
to  cut  them  through,  and  pass  a  double  thread  through  the  centre  of  each. 
Powder  and  sift  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  add  it  to  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
add  Cochineal  to  colour  the  liquid,  and  whisk  it  for  nearly  twenty  minutes. 
Hold  the  oranges  by  the  thread,  and  dip  them  into  the  beaten  egg  and 
sugar,  covering  every  part  with  it ;  then  pass  a  piece  of  thin  stick  through 
the  thread,  and  fix  it  across  a  very  slow  oven  for  the  sugar  to  dry. 

Lemons. 

In  season  :  all  the  year. 

Lemons  (from  which  the  useful  citric  acid  is  obtained)  are  imported 
and  are  to  be  had  all  the  year,  but  come  freshly  into  England  in  June. 

They  are  an  absolutely  requisite  article  of  housekeeping,  being  used 
for  flavouring  all  kinds  of  cookery,  seasonings,  made-dishes,  puddings, 
jelly,  etc.  etc. 

They  should  be  kept  hung  up  in  little  netted-string  bags.  The  juice 
can  be  kept  bottled.  Lemons  also  furnish  a  very  good  pickle.  When 
only  the  juice  is  required,  the  cook  should  peel  the  lemon  before  squeezing 
it,  and  the  peel  should  be  hung  up  in  the  empty  bag  to  dry  for  use. 

Preserved  Lemon  Peel. 

Cut  the  lemon  peel  into  thin  slices ;  make  a  thick  syrup  of  white  sugar ; 
allow  the  peel  to  simmer  in  it  till  tender,  that  will  be  in  less  than  half  an 


Candied  Peel. — Eggs. 


hour ;  put  it  into  a  jar  and  tie  closely  down  with  a  piece  of  bladder  as  for 
any  other  preserve. 

Candied  Orange  or  Lemon  Peel, 

Boil  the  rind  from  thick  skinned  oranges  or  lemons  in  plenty  of  water, 
until  they  are  tender,  and  the  bitterness  is  out ;  changing  the  water  once 
or  twice.  Clarify  half  a  pound  of  sugar  with  half  a  cup  of  water  for  each 
pound  of  peel ;  when  it  is  clear,  put  in  the  peel,  cover  them,  and  boil  them 
until  clear,  and  the  syrup  almost  a  candy  ;  then  take  them  out,  and  lay 
them  on  inverted  sieves  to  dry  ;  boil  the  syrup  with  additional  sugar,  then 
put  in  the  peels,  stir  them  about  until  the  sugar  candies  around  them,  then 
take  them  on  to  a  sieve,  and  set  them  in  a  warm  oven,  or  before  a  fire  ; 
when  perfectly  dry,  pack  them  in  a  wooden  box,  with  tissue  paper  between. 

To  Keep  Lemon  Juice. 

Buy  the  lemons  when  cheap,  keep  them  in  a  cool  place  two  or  three 
days  if  too  unripe  to  squeeze  at  once  ;  cut  the  peel  from  some,  and  roll 
them  under  your  hand  to  make  them  part  with  the  juice  more  readily  ; 
others  you  may  leave  unpared  for  grating  ;  when  the  peel  shall  be  taken 
off  and  dried,  squeeze  the  juice  into  a  china  basin  ;  then  strain  it  through 
some  muslin,  which  will  not  permit  the  least  pulp  to  pass.  Have  ready 
half  and  quarter-ounce  phials  perfectly  dry  ;  fill  them  with  the  juice  so 
near  the  top  as  only  to  admit  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  oil  into  each 
ottle,  or  a  little  more  if  for  larger  bottles.  Cork  the  bottles  and  set  them 
upright  in  a  cool  place. 

When  you  want  lemon-juice,  open  such  a  sized  bottle  as  you  can  use 
in  two  or  three  days ;  wind  some  clean  cotton  round  a  skewer,  and  dipping 
it  in,  the  oil  will  be  attracted  ;  and  when  all  shall  be  removed,  the  juice 
will  be  as  fine  as  when  first  bottled. 

EGGS. 
The  Hen's  Egg. 
The  average  weight  of  a  hen's  egg  in  the  shell  is  two  ounces. 
I  lb.  of  Shelled  Eggs  co?iiains — 


Oz.  Grs. 

Water 12  66 

Albumen     ....     2  o 

Extractive  matter    .0  130 


Oz.   Grs. 

Oil  or  Fat  .     .     .     .     1     240 
Ashes     .....    o    288 


The  egg  consists  of  the  shell,  the  white,  and  the  yolk.  The  shell  is 
composed  of  carbonate  of  lime, — that  is,  chalk.  It  is  full  of  minute  pores 
or  holes  through  which  the  air  passes  for  the  use  of  the  young  bird  in  the 
process  of  hatching.  Now  as  it  is  the  air  which  causes  putrefaction  by  its 
chemical  effect,  we  can  only  preserve  eggs  by  making  them  air-tight. 
Whatever,  therefore,  will  perfectly  close  the  pores  in  the  egg-shell  will 
preserve  the  egg. 

Rubbing  the  new-laid  egg  over  with  fat  or  oil,  or  gum  answers  well ; 


2i4  The  Hen's  Egg, 


and  there  are  several  other  modes  of  closing  them,  as  packing  them  in 
bran,  or  just  dipping  the  egg  once  or  twice  in  boiling  water.  Saw-dust 
packing  gives  a  bad  flavour  to  the  eggs.  The  best  way  is  to  grease  them 
over  or  gum  them,  and  turn  them  occasionally  from  side  to  side.* 

An  egg  contains  fifty-five  parts  of  carbon,  sixteen  of  nitrogen,  seven  of 
hydrogen,  and  the  remaining  twenty-two  are  oxygen,  phosphorus,  and  sul- 
phur. The  offensive  smell  of  stale  eggs  is  caused  from  the  hydrogen  of 
the  egg  combining  with  its  sulphur  and  phosphorus,  and  thus  forming 
sulphuretted  or  phosphu retted  hydrogen— two  gases  which  have  a  horribly 
bad  smell. 

It  is  the  sulphur  in  the  egg  which  uniting  with  the  silver  of  an  egg- 
spoon  tarnishes  it  as  soon  as  it  is  moistened  with  the  saliva.  This  tarnish 
is  sulphuret  of  silver.     It  can  be  removed  by  rubbing  it  with  table  salt. 

"  The  yolk  of  the  egg"  says  Dr.  Hunter,  "  is  a  natural  soap,  and  in  all 
jaundice  cases  no  food  is  equal  to  it.  When  the  gall  is  too  weak,  or  by 
accidental  means  is  not  permitted  to  flow  in  sufficient  quantity,  our  food 
which  consists  of  watery  and  oily  parts  cannot  unite  so  as  to  become 
chyle.  Such  is  the  nature  of  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  that  it  is  capable  of 
uniting  water  and  oil  into  a  uniform  substance,  thereby  making  up  for  a 
deficiency  of  natural  bile." 

The  shell  forms  more  than  a  tenth  part  of  the  weight  of  the  egg,  the 
white  six-tenths,  the  yolk  three-tenths. 

The  white  of  the  egg  is  the  substance  known  to  chemists  as  alfouncn; 
in  a  nutritive  sense  it  answers  to  the  gluten  of  vegetables  and  fibrin  of 
meat. 

The  yolk  consists  of  fat  and  a  variety  of  albumen.  It  contains  also  a 
trace  of  milk  sugar. 

The  egg  is  much  richer  in  fat  than  beef,  and  is,  in  fact,  only  equalled 
in  it  by  pork  and  eels. 

Eggs  are,  therefore,  very  nutritious.  The  white  is  constipating,  and 
the  egg  is  better  eaten  without  it  by  invalids  or  children — we  mean  simply 
the  yolk  should  be  eaten  by  them. 

Fat  eaten  with  eggs  makes  them  more  laxative,  hence  "  bacon  and 
eggs  "  form  a  judicious  mixture. 

The  white  of  the  egg  has  a  glairy  consistence,  which  enables  it,  when 
mixed  up  with  moistened  flour,  arrowroot,  sago,  etc.,  to  retain  the  globules 
of  air  or  of  steam  which  are  produced  by  heat,  and  thus  it  enables  the 
mixed  materials  to  swell  up  into  a  porous  mass.  Therefore  white  of 
egg  gives  lightness  to  puddings,  cakes,  etc.  When  we  speak  of  eggs  in 
puddings  we  mean  hen's  eggs,  because  they  are  the  only  eggs  to  be  had 
all  the  year  round. 

Turkey  and  goose-eggs  are  too  valuable  for  eating  in  the  early  summer, 


*  M.  Burnouf  recommends  in  a  French  journal  of  agriculture  the  following 
method  of  preserving  eggs  : — Dissolve  in  two-thirds  of  warm  olive  oil  one-third  of 
beeswax,  and  cover  every  egg  completely  with  a  thin  layer  of  this  pomade  with 
the  end  of  the  finger.  The  egg-shell  by  degrees  absorbs  the  oil,  and  each  of  its 
pores  becomes  filled  with  the  wax,  which  hermetically  seals  them.  M.  Burnouf 
affirms  that  he  has  eaten  eggs  kept  two  years  in  this  manner  in  a  place  not  exposed 
to  too  great  extremes  of  temperature.  He  thinks  also  that  the  germ  may  in  this 
way  be  preserved  for  a  considerable  time. 


Grandmother* 's  Strips.- -Morning  Eggs,  etc.  215 

but  in  autumn  turkey  eggs  are  often  used  and  are  excellent.  Ducks'  eggs 
are  common  enough,  but  they  are  richer  and  not  so  delicate  as  hens' 
eggs. 

A  fresh  egg  feels  heavy  in  the  hand  ;  but  the  best  way  to  prove  them 
is  to  try  them  in  water.  Put  an  egg  into  a  basin  of  water,  if  it  stands 
upright  on  the  end  it  is  bad  ;  if  it  lies  obliquely  it  is  not  quite  fresh  ;  if  it 
floats  it  is  bad  ;  if  it  lies  at  the  bottom  it  is  quite  fresh.  A  fresh  egg  takes 
half  a  minute  longer  to  boil  than  a  stale  one.  The  yolk  of  an  egg  sets 
before  the  white  does,  and  if  it  is  put  into  cold  water,  before  the  water 
boils  ;  the  white  becomes  fixed  at  the  temperature  of  scarcely  boiling 
water.  Very  little  heat  is  required  therefore  for  sauces  made  with  yolk 
of  egg  ;  a  little  more  when  white  and  yolk  are  boiled  together.  If  boiled 
custard,  or  any  milk  and  egg  custard,  boils  in  the  dish,  the  egg  runs  to 
whey,  and  the  dish  is  spoiled  ;  quick  boiling  converts  the  white  of  egg 
into  a  leathery  substance,  while  the  yolk  is  still  moist.  The  way  to  make 
water  boil  slowly — i.e.,  to  delay  its  boiling,  while  it  gets  extremely  hot — is, 
as  we  have  said  in  "  Domestic  Science,"  to  add  a  body  to  it  less  volatile 
than  itself.  Salt  does  it,  and  it  is  therefore  used  for  poaching  eggs,  which 
are  plunged  suddenly  into  boiling  salt  and  water,  in  order  to  set  the  albu- 
men speedily. 

There  are  many  modes  of  cooking  eggs.  We  insert  a  few  delicate 
modes  of  dressing  them  : — 

Grandmother's  Strips, 

Make  a  syrup  of  sugar,  marsala,  and  water  in  a  rather  deep  stewpan. 
Beat  together  eight  fresh  eggs  with  a  dessert  spoonful,  of  flour,  or  arrow- 
root. Get  a  colander,  the  holes  of  which  would  be  the  size  of  a  strip  of 
vermicelli,  put  it  over  the  boiling  syrup,  pour  the  beaten  eggs  in  and  press 
them  through  the  holes.  They  will  drop  in  a  thin  stream  into  the  liquid, 
and  will  be  immediately  set,  or  poached,  in  these  tiny  forms.  On  taking 
them  up  they  are  drained  and  placed  on  a  dish  in  a  pile.  Garnish  with 
red  sweetmeats. 

Morning  Eggs. 

Boil  one  dozen  eggs  hard,  press  the  yolks  through  a  sieve  and  add  to 
them  two  ounces  of  butter,  half  a  spoonful  of  flour,  a  little  pepper  and  salt, 
parsley  chopped  fine,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  half  a  pint  of  very  rich  cream. 
Stir  well  together  until  thick,  cut  the  white  in  strips,  put  them  into  the 
sauce. 

Eggs  au  G-ratin. 

Boil  four  eggs  hard,  cut  them  in  halves,  take  out  the  yolks,  put  them 
into  a  basin,  mix  them  well  together,  with  a  little  cream,  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  cheese  ;  put  this  mixture  into  the  half  whites  and  brown  the  tops 
with  a  salamander. 

Bumbled  Eggs. 

Take  three  eggs  and  beat  them  ;  add  to  them  a  large  cupful  of  cream, 
some  nutmeg,  white  pepper  and  salt ;  mix  together  in  a  bowl,  have  ready 
a  frying-pan  with  fresh  butter  in  it,  pour  in  the  ingredients  and  stir  it  over 
a  slow  fire.  They  are  done  when  they  become  thick.  Serve  on  buttered 
toast. 


2 1 6  Pickled  Eggs.— Tea. 


Pickled  Eggs. 

Boil  the  eggs  for  twenty  minutes  ;  take  them  up  and  plunge  fehem  in 
cold  water,  shell  them,  lay  them  whole  in  wide-mouthed  jars.  Pour  over 
them  scalding  vinegar  in  which  has  been  boiled  pepper,  allspice,  whole 
ginger,  and  a  few  cloves.  Let  the  pickle  get  cold ;  fasten  them  tightly 
down,  and  keep  for  use.     They  will  not  be  ready  for  a  month. 

Ducks'  eggs  may  be  used  to  advantage  in  making  very  rich  puddings. 
Swans'  eggs  are  never  eaten  in  England,  but  in  other  lands  they,  as  well  as 
the  eggs  of  many  other  birds  not  known  to  us,  are  used,  and  eat  well  as  an 
omelette,  or  even  simply  roasted. 

The  water  in  which  eggs  have  been  boiled  has  a  strange  power  of  pro- 
ducing warts  on  the  skin  if  it  happens  to  touch  it  j  cooks  should  therefore 
carefully  avoid  touching  egg-water. 

Omelette  a  la  Neige. 

Break  and  separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  six  fresh  eggs,  add  a 
pinch  of  salt,  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon  minced  fine,  and  five  or  six  pounded 
macaroons  ;  mix  all  well  together.  Then  whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
beat  them  well  into  the  yolks,  and  then  pour  the  mixture  into  a  pan  of  hot 
butter ;  stir  them  round,  and  raise  the  edges  to  separate  it  from  the  pan  ; 
turn  them  over,  and  then  turn  the  omelet  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  sugar  over  it 
and  lightly  brown  with  a  salamander.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  six  eggs 
beaten  to  a  very  great  firmness — as  thick  as  cream.  Drop  heaps  of  it  on 
the  omelet  as  soon  as  it  is  in  the  dish,  and  serve  quickly.    {See  plate.) 

To  Keep  Eggs— American  Receipt. 

Take  fresh  laid  eggs,  dip  each  one  in  melted  lard  or  beef-fat,  or  rub  a 
bit  of  butter  thoroughly  over  the  shell  between  the  hands  ;  then  pack 
!hem,  the  small  end  downwards,  in  bran  or  chaff.  In  this  way  they  will 
keep  good  for  months. 

Eggs  may  be  kept  good  for  a  year  in  the  following  manner  : — 
To  a  pail  of  water  put  of  unslacked  lime  and  coarse  salt  each  a  pint ; 
keep  it  in  a  cellar  or  cool  place,  and  put  the  eggs  in,  as  fresh  laid  as  pos- 
sible. It  is  well  to  keep  a  stone  pot  of  this  lime-water  ready  to  receive 
the  eggs  as  soon  as  laid.  Make  a  fresh  supply  every  few  months.  This 
lime-water  is  of  exactly  the  proper  strength  ;  strong  lime-water  will  cook 
the  eggs  ;  very  strong  lime-water  will  rot  the  shells. 


TEA. 

Co?istituent  par  is  of  i  lb. 

Oz. 

Grs. 

Oz. 

Grs. 

Water    .    . 

o 

35o 

Gum .... 

2 

335 

Theine  .    . 

o 

210 

Sugar     .     .     . 

0 

218 

Fat    .     .     . 

o 

280 

Tannic  acid   . 

4 

87 

Casein    .     . 

2 

175 

Woody  fibre   . 

3 

17 

Aromatic  Oil 

O 

52 

Mineral  matter 

0 

35o 

Our  truly  national  beverage  is  made  from  the  leaf  of  the  tea-plant 


Tea.  2 1 7 

(Thea sinensis),  a  shrub  which  bears  a  great  resemblance  to  the  Camellia 
Japonica.  The  tea-plant  is  a  native  of  China,  and  grows  wild  in  some 
parts  of  that  country  and  of  Japan.  The  leaves  of  the  tea-plant  are 
gathered  (chiefly  by  women)  in  the  spring.  The  tea-harvest  generally  ends 
in  May  or  June  ;  they  are,  however,  gathered  at  three  successive  seasons. 
— the  young  and  tender  leaves  giving  the  highest  flavoured  tea  ;  the  second 
and  third  gatherings  are  bitterer  and  have  more  woody  leaves. 

The  refuse  and  decayed  leaves  are  pressed  into  moulds,  made  hard 
with  ox  blood,  and  sold  as  Brick  Tea  in  Northern  China,  and  beyond 
the  Great  Wall. 

Tea  is  either  green  or  black.  As  it  is  now  well  known  that  the  green 
teas  are  painted  with  Prussian-blue  or  indigo,  black  tea  is  the  general 
choice  of  the  nation  ;  though  some  still  prefer  green. 

The  leaves  for  black  tea  are  spread  out  and  left  in  the  air  for  some 
time  after  they  are  gathered  ;  they  are  then  tossed  about  till  they  become 
soft  and  flaccid  ;  next  washed  for  a  few  minutes  and  rolled.  Afterwards 
they  are  exposed  to  the  air  for  a  few  hours  in  a  moist  state,  and  then  dried 
slowly  over  charcoal  fires.     The  leaf  blackens  by  exposure  to  the  air. 

For  green  tea  the  leaves  are  spread  thinly  on  bamboo-trays  for  one  or 
two  hours,  and  then  dried  off  rapidly  and  rolled. 

The  principal  varieties  of  black  tea  are — Bohea,  Congou,  Campoi, 
Souchong,  Caper,  and  Pekoe.  The  green  teas  are  Twankay,  Hyson-skin, 
Hyson,  Imperial,  and  Gunpowder. 

Pekoe,  or  "  White-down,"  is  made  from  the  downy  sprouts  or  leaf-buds 
of  plants  of  three  years'  growth. 

Caper  is  in  hard  grains ;  it  is  made  of  the  dust  of  the  other  teas, 
cemented  with  gum. 

The  practice  of  scenting  teas  is  common,  and  various  sweet  flowers 
and  odoriferous  plants  are  used  for  the  purpose. 

Tea  was  brought  to  England  in  the  seventeenth  century  only,  and  was 
immensely  expensive.  The  East  India  Company  made  a  present  to  the 
Queen  of  Charles  II.  of  two  pounds  of  tea  as  a  very  costly  gift. 

Dried  Sage  leaves  formed  the  tea  of  England  till  then  and  for  very 
long  afterwards.  They  were,  in  fact,  used  up  to  the  middle  of  the  last 
century. 

The  effects  of  tea  are  well  known,  it  "  cheers  without  inebriating f  ex- 
cites the  brain  to  activity  and  watchfulness  ;  soothes  the  system,  and 
stays  the  waste  of  the  body. 

This  last  effect  is  produced  by  the  substance  in  it  called  Theine, 

Theine  is  composed  of  carbon,  hydrogen,  oxygen,  and  nitrogen  ;  three- 
tenths  of  its  substance  being  nitrogen.  Theine  has,  as  we  have  said, 
the  remarkable  power  of  sensibly  diminishing  the  waste  of  the  body. 
Now,  as  we  eat  to  supply  this  waste,  it  follows  that  if  the  waste  be  less 
we  shall  want  less  food.  Tea,  therefore,  saves  solid  food  while  it  cheers 
and  soothes  the  spirits.  For  old  people — in  whom  the  daily  waste  of  the 
tissues  is  greater  than  in  the  young — tea  is  very  valuable  ;  while  the  poor, 
who  have  scanty  food,  reasonably  cling  to  their  "  cup  of  tea,"  as  their 
great  stay  and  solace. 

It  is  wise  in  the  poor  to  buy  good  tea  (as  they  almost  invariably  do), 
because  the  support  is  greater  in  the  purer  beverage  than  when  adul- 
terated with  sloe-leaves,  etc. 


2l8 


Adulteration  of  Tea. — Coffee. 


Baron  Liebig  has  shown  that  THEINE  is  of  all  substances  the  most 
easily  converted  into  bile,  and  that  by  means  of  tea  this  necessary  fluid 
can  be  produced  in  those  who  are  ill-fed  or  take  little  exercise. 

The  fashion  of  the  five  o'clock  cup  of  tea  is  therefore  evidently  a  wise 
one. 

Tea-leaves  contain  a  great  deal  of  gluten,  and  if  eaten  would  be  as  nutri- 
tious as  beans  or  peas.     This  fact  is  worth  knowing  in  case  of  famine. 

A  pinch  of  soda  in  the  water  poured  over  tea,  dissolves  a  portion  of 
this  gluten  and  renders  the  tea  more  nutritious, 


Adulteration  of  Tea. 

Congou  and  Souchong  are  the  teas  which  reach  England  unadul- 
terated by  the  Chinese.  English  adulterations  are  sloe-leaves  and  black- 
thorn-leaves dried,  broken  in  pieces,  and  mixed  up  with  a  paste  made  of 
gum  and  catechu,  or  Japan  earth  ;  ash  and  plum-leaves,  silkworm  dung, 
dung  of  pigs  and  dogs,  or  exhausted  tea-leaves  bought  from  hotels,  re- 
dried,  mixed  with  gum  and  faced  with  rose-pink,  or  blacklead,  or  copper, 
for  green  tea. 

Taking  these  frauds  into  consideration,  we  think  it  is  wise  to  buy  of  a 
first  rate  dealer,  whose  honour  may  be  relied  on. 

Souchong  is  the  finest  of  the  strong  black  teas ;  Pekoe  the  most 
delicate. 

Tea  to  preserve  its  flavour  must  be  kept  in  lead. 

To  make  tea,  take  care  that  the  water  boils :  tea  cannot  be  made  with 
any  but  boiling  water.  A  teaspoonful  for  each  person  and  one  over  "  for 
the  pot,"  is  the  quantity  required  ;  let  it  stand  five  minutes.  Keep  the 
tea-pot  (if  possible)  covered  with  a  woollen  "  cosy." 

Flesh-producers  remain  with  the  tea-leaves,  but  may  be  taken  up,  as 
we  have  said  above,  by  putting  a  little  soda  in  the  water. 

COFFEE. 


Constituent  parts — lib.  of  coffee  contains — 


Water  .... 
Aromatic  oil 
Potash       .     .     . 
Caffeine  or  theine 
Gum     .... 


Oz.  Grs. 

407 

280 
122 
192 


Woody  fibre 
Casein      .     . 
Sugar  .     .     . 
Fat  ...     . 
Mineral  matter 


Oz.  Grs. 

5  262 

2  35 

1  17 

1  402 

1  3i 


The  Coffee  tree  is  a  native  of  southern  Abyssinia,  where  it  grows  in 
the  countries  of  Enarea  and  Caffa  like  a  weed.  Coffee  was  brought  from 
Abyssinia  to  Arabia  in  the  beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century.  About  the 
middle  of  the  sixteenth  century  it  reached  Constantinople,  and  became  an 
article  of  general  consumption.  In  1652  the  first  coffee-house  was  opened 
in  London  by  a  Greek  named  Pasqua,  and  twenty  years  after  the  first 
French  coffee-house  was  opened  at  Marseilles. 

Ceylon,  Jamaica,  Costa  Rica,  and  Brazil  supply  us  with  coffee. 

The  Arabian  or  Mocha,  considered  the  best,  is  small  and  of  a  dark 
yellow  colour.     Javan  and  East  Indian  are  larger  and  of  a  paler  yellow. 


Coffee.  219 

Ceylon,  West  Indian,  and  Brazilian  coffees  have  a  bluish  or  greenish 
grey  tint.* 

The  coffee  tree  is  an  elegant  tree,  covered  with  a  dark  shining  and 
evergreen  foliage.  It  flourishes  in  a  dry  soil  and  warm  situation.  It  has 
pale  white  fragrant  flowers,  and  its  fruit  grows  in  clusters.  Inside  the 
fruit  are  the  berries  or  seeds  which  we  use. 

Berries  improve  in  flavour  by  keeping — of  course  unroasted.  The 
Mocha  berries  will  ripen  in  three  years,  and  bad  coffee  will  in  ten  years 
be  good  and  of  fine  flavour. 

Everybody  knows  the  good  effects  of  coffee.  It  cheers  the  spirits, 
rouses  us  and  keeps  us  awake,  and  counteracts  stupor  caused  by  fatigue  or 
by  opium.  To  a  certain  extent  it  allays  hunger,  by  retarding  the  waste  in 
the  tissues  of  the  body.  With  coffee  to  drink  much  less  food  is  required— 
as  much  as  one-third  less,  the  great  chemists  tell  us. 

Coffee  has  great  medicinal  virtues  ;  it  is  said  to  be  an  excellent  anti- 
dote to  gout,  and  to  cure  other  painful  diseases. 

Coffee-tea  must  here  be  mentioned.  It  is  made  from  the  leaves  of  the 
coffee-tree  roasted  over  a  clear  fire  till  they  become  of  a  dark  buff  colour. 
They  are  then  separated  from  the  twigs,  the  bark  of  which  is  roasted,  rubbed 
off  and  used  with  the  leaves.  They  are  immersed  in  boiling  water,  give 
a  brown  infusion,  and  with  sugar  and  milk  form  a  very  pleasant  beverage. 
They  have  a  fragrant  odour  like  that  of  tea  and  coffee  mixed.  They  are 
said  to  have  great  effect  on  the  body  and  mind,  strengthening  the  former 
and  making  the  intellect  clear  and  active.  A  greater  portion  of  theine  is 
found  in  them  than  in  the  coffee  bean  itself.  Coffee  is  sometimes  mixed 
with  chicory. 

It  is  best  to  buy  unroasted  coffee-beans  and  roast  them  as  required. 
Coffee  can  be  bought  wholesale  at  is,  per  pound,  but  as  dealers  will  not  sell 
less  than  twenty-eight  pounds  weight  at  that  price,  it  must  be  bought  un- 
roasted, or  it  would  not  keep. 

Coffee  makes  better  if  the  powder  be  warmed  first  before  the  water  is 
poured  on  it. 

Roasted  beetroot  is  a  substitute  for  coffee.t  The  root  is  roasted  and 
ground  and  made  in  the  same  manner.  The  root  of  the  dandelion,  also 
furnishes  a  coffee  which  is  excellent  for  the  liver.  It  is  called  Taraxacum 
coffee,  and  can  be  bought  at  all  chemists. 

Allow  for  each  person  a  dessert  spoonful  of  coffee  ;  use  a  biggin,  as  it 
should  be  made  with  boiling  water,  but  not  boiled.  Coffee  keeps  people 
awake,  and  should  not  therefore  be  drank  at  night. 


*  Of  course  that  is  unroasted. 
f  Cut  it  in  slices,  add  a  little  piece  of  butter  to  prevent  burning,  and  roasl 
them  dry  over  a  good  fire ;  then  powder  them. 


220 


COCOA   AND   CHOCOLATE, 

Constituent  parts  of  i  lb.  of  paste — 


Oz. 

Grs. 

Oz. 

Grs 

Water 

o 

35o 

Starch  .... 

1 

53 

Butter 

o 

8 

Theobromine     . 

0 

140 

Colouring  matter    . 

o 

140 

Woody  fibre 

0 

280 

Albumen  and  gluten 

3 

35 

Mineral  matter 

0 

280 

Gum 

o 

426 

The  Mexican  Cocoa  is  the  seed  of  the  Theobroma  cacao,  a  small  tree 
with  bright  dark  green  leaves,  which  grows  in  the  West  Indies  and  the 
central  regions  of  America.  It  grows  wild  in  Mexico,  and  there  are  whole 
forests  of  it  in  Demerara.  In  the  Mauritius  and  Isle  de  Bourbon  it  is 
cultivated.  It  was  first  known  in  its  best  form  as  chocolate — the  Mexican 
name  being  chocolatl,  and  was  brought  to  Europe  by  the  Spaniards  in 
1520.  Timseus  gave  this  tree  the  name  of  Theobroma — food  for  the  gods 
— on  account  of  the  beverage  being  so  delicious. 

The  fruit  of  the  tree,  which  grows  like  the  fig  from  the  stem  and 
branches,  is  of  the  form  and  size  of  a  short  but  very  thick  cucumber. 
When  ripe  the  seeds  are  taken  out,  cleaned  from  the  marrowy  substance 
of  the  fruit,  and  dried  in  the  sun.  These  seeds  are  called  cocoa  beans. 
They  are  of  a  dark  colour,  and  have  a  bitter  taste.  They  are  gently  roasted 
in  an  iron  cylinder,  as  coffee  is  roasted,  and  when  the  aroma  is  fully  deve- 
loped, they  are  left  to  cool.  The  beans,  when  freed  from  their  husks,  are 
beat  into  a  paste  in  a  hot  mortar,  or  ground  between  hot  rollers ;  this 
paste  when  mixed  with  sugar  and  seasoned  with  vanilla,  cinnamon,  or 
cloves,  is  chocolate;  mixed  with  starch,  sugar,  and  other  ingredients  it 
forms  the  ordinary  breakfast  COCOA.  The  husk,  which  is  removed  from 
the  bean  and  crushed  into  fragments,  forms  the  cocoa  nibs — the  purest 
state  in  which  cocoa  is  sold. 

Chocolate  is  made  into  sweet  cakes  and  bonbons,  which  are  very 
nutritious  and  strengthening — a  few  being  capable  of  giving  great  support. 
Chocolate  scraped  to  a  powder  and  boiled  in  milk  is  very  refreshing  and 
nutritious. 

The  cocoa  powder  mixed  with  boiling  milk  is  now  a  common  morning 
beverage  ;  it  is  alterative,  heat-giving,  and  flesh-forming. 

One  reason  of  its  usefulness  as  an  article  of  diet  is  the  presence  in  it 
of  the  substance  called  theobromi?ie.  This  substance  contains  carbon,  hy- 
drogen, nitrogen,  and  oxygen  in  itself,  and  is  particularly  rich  in  nitrogen, 
which  exercises  an  active  influence  on  the  human  system. 

Cocoa  also  contains  a  great  deal  of  fatty  matter  called  cocoa  butter. 
It  has  therefore  great  power  of  nourishing,  while  the  theobromine  exhila- 
rates and  soothes  the  spirits,  and  has  a  waste-retarding  power. 

Cocoa  is  adulterated  with  its  own  husks,  starch,  sugar,  ground  roots, 
and  red  ochre,  which  is  a  very  injurious  substance  ;  its  presence  can  be 
detected  by  burning  the  cocoa  in  the  air  ;  then  examine  the  ash;  if  it  be 
grey  the  cocoa  is  pure  ;  if  red,  it  is  adulterated  with  ochre. 


221 


SUGAE. 


The  Sugars  in  modern  use  are,  cane  sugar,  maple,  beet,  maize,  and 
palm  sugar.  The  ancients  had  only  honey,  grape  sugar,  manna,  and  fruit 
sugars. 

Sugar  is  also  maufactured  from  potatoes,  seaweeds,  milk,  Carrageen, 
Ceylon,  and  Iceland  mosses,  and  even  from  sawdust  and  rags  ! 

The  cane  sugar  first  claims  our  attention.  It  is  the  juice  of  the  sugar 
cane,  a  plant  which  was  cultivated  in  China  and  the  South  Sea  Islands 
before  the  historical  era  ;  for  it  is  really  a  native  of  the  East.  Through 
Sicily  and  Spain  it  reached  the  Canary  Islands.  It  was  introduced  to  St. 
Domingo  by  the  Spaniards  in  1520,  and  gradually  spread  all  over  the 
West  Indies  and  tropical  regions  of  the  New  World.  It  will,  however, 
grow  far  beyond  the  boundaries  of  the  tropics.  It  flourishes  in  a  tempera- 
ture of  from  770  F.  to  66°  F.  It  is  grown  also  in  Nepaul,  and  on  the  high 
plains  of  Mexico.  The  juice  of  the  sugar  cane  contains  : — sugar,  18  to 
22  parts  in  the  100  ;  water  and  gluten,  71  ;  woody  fibre,  10;  saline 
matter,  1. 

The  sugar  cane  is  a  very  elegant  plant ;  the  sap  contains  the  sugar  up 
to  a  certain  height,  after  attaining  which  it  appears  to  spend  its  sweetness 
in  nourishing  the  growing  stem  and  leaves.  Consequently  only  the  under 
part  of  the  cane  is  used  for  the  extraction  of  sugar.  The  leaves  and 
tops  are  chopped  off,  the  remainder  of  the  canes  are  passed  between  heavy 
iron  rollers  which  crush  them,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice  into  large  vats  or 
vessels  where  it  is  clarified  by  the  addition  of  lime. 

Lime  neutralizes  the  acid  which  forms  in  the  fresh  juice,  combines 
with  the  gluten,  and  carries  it  to  the  bottom  of  the  vessel.  The  gluten  is 
removed,  because  if  left  it  would  act  as  a  natural  cause  of  fermentation, 
and  cause  the  sugar  to  turn  to  acid.  After  being  clarified  and  filtered  the 
juice  is  boiled  rapidly  down,  and  run  into  wooden  vessels  to  cool  and 
crystallize. 

When  the  crystals  are  formed  it  is  put  into  perforated  casks  to  drain. 
The  remainder  left  is  muscovado  or  raw  sugar  ;  the  drainings  are  molas- 
ses.    The  molasses  and  skimmings  are  fermented  and  distilled  into  rum. 

The  raw  sugar  is  still  further  refined  by  boiling,  &c. 

The  juice  of  the  sugar  cane  is  so  nutritive  that  it  is  a  perfect  food  for 
man,  capable  of  sustaining  life  without  any  other  sustenance  ;  but  this  is 
not  the  case  with  sugar,  because  the  gluten  has  been  removed. 

Beetroot  Sugar  comes  next  in  the  list  of  European  sugars.  It  is 
extracted  from  the  sugar  beet,  which  often  contains  a  tenth  of  its  weight 
in  sugar  ;  by  squeezing  out  the  juice  the  raw  sugar  is  obtained,  and  when 
refined  can  scarcely  be  told  from  cane  sugar.  Beet  sugar  is  manufac- 
tured in  France,  Belgium,  Germany,  and  Russia. 

Palm  or  Date  Sugar,  or  Jaggery. — W7hen  the  top  shoot  of  any 
of  the  great  palms  is  wounded  it  yields  a  quantity  of  sweet  juice,  which, 
boiled  down,  gives  the  slightly  brown  raw  sugar  known  by  the  name 
of  jaggery.  The  date  and  the  gommuti  palm  both  yield  sugar.  The  wild 
date  palm,  Phoenix  Sylvestris,  supplies  the  largest  amount  of  the  saccharine 
juice.  This  date  sugar  is  chiefly  consumed  in  India,  but  some  of  it  is 
imported  into  this  country  and  occasionally  sold  as  cane  sugar. 


222  Sugar. 

The  COCOA-NUT  tree  has  also  a  saccharine  sap  which  is  boiled  down 
(in  the  South  Sea  Islands)  till  it  becomes  a  brown  syrup  resembling 
molasses. 

Maple  Sugar  is  the  juice  of  the  sugar  maple  {Acer  saccharinum) 
which  grows  in  New  England,  and  by  the  lakes,  and  in  the  provinces  of 
British  America.     The  Canadas  produce  a  great  deal  of  maple  sugar. 

In  several  parts  forests  of  maple  trees  cover  the  country,  and  from 
them  large  quantities  of  maple  sugar  are  obtained.  Incisions  are  made  in 
the  trunk  for  the  purpose  of  collecting  the  sap,  which  is  gathered  twice  a 
day.  The  first  which  issues  from  the  tree  after  an  incision  is  made,  is  clear 
and  without  taste  or  colour ;  but  after  standing  a  day  or  two  it  becomes 
sweet,  and  a  few  days  after  the  sap  runs  sugary  from  the  tree.  It  is 
boiled  down  to  the  crystallizing  point,  and  poured  into  brick-shaped 
moulds  in  which  it  becomes  solid.  Specimens  of  maple  sugar  of  every 
kind  may  be  seen  in  the  Food  Gallery  of  the  South  Kensington  Museum. 

The  brown-coloured  sugar  is  preferred  on  account  of  its  maple  flavour, 
but  the  clear  sap  when  carefully  boiled  in  glazed  pots  will  yield  a  beautifully 
white  sugar,  which  cannot  be  distinguished  from  cane  sugar.  The  molasses 
drained  from  maple  sugar  is  very  pleasant  to  the  taste,  and  is  an  American 
luxury. 

Maize  Sugar  is  made  from  the  green  stalks  of  maize  or  Indian  corn, 
which,  when  boiled  down,  give  a  good  sugar  juice. 

Potato  or  Starch  Sugar. — Starch  of  any  kind  is  dissolved  by 
boiling  and  becomes  a  sticky  jelly  ;  by  the  addition  of  a  little  sulphuric 
acid  it  is  converted  into  grape  or  honey  sugar.  One  pound  of  acid  to  one 
hundred  pounds  of  starch  will  suffice  to  convert  into  sugar,  potato,  wheaten, 
or  sago  starch.  By  a  further  chemical  process  a  solid  sugar  can  be  ob- 
tained— i.e.,  the  acid  is  separated  by  lime,  and  the  liquor  boiled  down. 
Or  if  sulphuric  acid  be  objected  to,  malt  may  be  used  for  the  same  pur- 
pose. Fifteen  pounds  of  malt  are  added  to  one  hundred  pounds  of  starch  ; 
it  is  subjected  to  a  heat  of  1600  F.  or  1700  F.  for  three  hours,  then  filtered 
and  evaporated.  This  sugar  is  used  for  adulterating  cane  sugar,  and  in 
the  manufacture  of  spirits.     Brandy  is  also  distilled  from  it. 

Sulphuric  acid  has  also  the  marvellous  effect  of  changing  paper,  cotton, 
or  flax,  cotton  and  linen  rags  or  sawdust  into  sugar  by  the  same  operation, 
only  demanding  a  longer  time  to  achieve  the  transformation,  as  it  first 
changes  the  material  into  starch,  and  then  the  starch  into  sugar.  Robin- 
son Crusoe  would  have  rejoiced  to  know  that  from  starch  he  could  manu- 
facture sugar  for  himself.     The  barley  supplying  the  malt. 

The  MOSSES  known  as  Carrageen  (collected  on  the  coast  of  Ireland), 
Ceylon,  Iceland,  and  many  other  seaweeds,  yield  when  boiled  in  water  a 
jelly  which  is  very  nutritious  and  wholesome  in  itself,  and  can  be  con- 
verted by  sulphuric  acid  into  sugar. 

Sorghum  Sugar  and  Sugar  Millet  are  Chinese  sugars.  Sorghum 
is  the  juice  of  the  sorghum,  a  kind  of  D hurra  plant. 

Coarse  brown  sugar,  though  the  cheapest,  is  not  profitable  to  purchase. 
It  is  mixed  with  woody  fibre  and  grit,  and  contains  a  kind  of  fungus  resem- 
bling the  yeast  plant.  Dr.  Hassall  found  in  it  the  Acarus  sacchari,  or 
sugar  mite,  an  insect  which  resembles  the  itch  insect,  and  which  he  thinks 
may  cause  the  grocer's  itch,  a  complaint  attacking  people  who  handle 
sugars.     Good  moist  sugar  is  light  in  colour,  dry,  and  crystallized ;  the 


Molasses  and  Treacle.  —Honey.  223 

more  it  is  crystallized  the  better  it  is.  Bad  moist  sugar  is  damp,  heavy 
and  not  crystallized.  It  is  no  economy  at  all  to  buy  it,  as  it  outweighs 
the  good.  Lump  sugars  differ  very  little  ;  the  price  being  affected  chiefly 
by  the  colour.     The  whitest  is  the  dearest. 

MOLASSES    AND    TREACLE. 

Molasses  is  the  drainings  of  the  raw  or  unrefined  sugar ;  treacle  the 
drainings  of  refined  sugar. 

Sugar  contains  four  to  ten  per  cent,  of  moisture  ;  treacle,  about  twenty- 
three.     The  rest  is  carbonaceous  matter,  but  contains  no  nitrogen. 

They  are  therefore  heat-producing  and  fattening  agents. 

HONEY. 

Honey  is  the  sweet  juice  of  flowers  prepared  for  our  use  by  the  honey- 
bee. The  working  bees  extract  it  from  the  nectaries  of  the  flowers,  deposit 
it  in  their  crop  or  honey-bag,  which  is  an  expansion  of  the  gullet, 
and  disgorge  it  when  they  return  to  the  hive.  Some  chemical  change 
probably  takes  place  in  the  juice  while  secreted  in  the  insect's  crop,  and 
transforms  it  to  honey.  When  suffered  to  stand  for  a  length  of  time 
liquid  honey  thickens. 

If  it  is  then  pressed  through  a  linen  bag,  a  thick  syrup  will  flow  out,  and 
crystals  of  solid  white  sugar  will  be  found  remaining  in  the  strainer.  This 
is  precisely  the  same  as  the  grape  sugar  procured  from  raisins. 

Honey  contains  besides  this  grape  sugar  yellow  colouring  matter, 
wax,  and  gum.  Honey  is  flavoured  by  the  flowers  which  feed  the  hive. 
Hence  the  honey  of  Crete,  Minorca  and  Narbonne  is  flavoured  with  rose- 
mary, that  of  Hymettus  with  thyme,  Provence  honey  with  lavender,  Cuba 
honey  with  the  orange  flower. 

Sometimes  honey  becomes  poisonous  by  the  bees  sucking  the  rhodo- 
dendron, azalea,  monkshood,  or  kalmias. 

The  honey  of  Trebizond  causes  headache,  vomiting,  and  a  species  of 
intoxication  in  those  who  eat  it. 

It  was  probably  a  rhododendron  honey  which  intoxicated  the  soldiers 
of  Xenophon,  during  the  famous  retreat  of  the  Ten  Thousand. 

Strong  spirits  are  obtained  from  fermented  honey — Mead,  Metheglin, 
and  Hydromel — but  they  are  no  longer  used  in  England. 

To  Keep  Honey. 

Heat  strained  honey  to  the  boiling  point,  and  store  it  in  covered  jars, 
when  it  will  keep  without  candying.  To  prevent  danger  of  burning,  set 
the  vessel  in  which  it  is  to  be  heated  into  another  containing  water. 

American  Honey  Cakes. 

One  quart  of  honey ;  half  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar  ;  half  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter  ;  two  lemons  ;  one  nutmeg,  and  one  pound  and  three- 
quarters  of  flour. 

Press  the  juice  from  the  lemons,  strain  the  honey ;  mix  the  honey, 


224  Useful  Seeds  for  Winter. — Pickling  and  Preserving. 


powdered  sugar,  and  butter  together  with  the  lemon-juice.  Put  them  in  a 
stewpan  and  warm  them  slightly  over  the  fire  till  the  butter  is  softened  ; 
shake  into  it  gradually  a  pound  and  three-quarters  of flour  (sifted).  Make 
it  into  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  out ;  beat  it  well  with  a  rolling-pin,  then 
roll  it  out  to  half  an  inch  thick  ;  dip  the  top  of  a  tumbler  in  flour,  and  cut 
this  paste  into  rounds  with  it  :  lay  them  in  tin  pans,  slightly  buttered,  ana 
bake  them. 

Honey  Cakes, 

Three  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour  ;  one  pound  and  a  half  of  honey  ; 
half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  half  a  pound  of  butter  ;  half  a  nutmeg  grated  ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  or  car- 
bonate of  soda. 

Mix  the  sugar  with  the  flour  and  grated  ginger,  and  work  the  whole 
into  a  smooth  dough  with  the  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  the  honey  and 
saleratus,  or  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Roll  it  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  think,  cut  it  into  small  cakes,  and  bake  them  twenty-five  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

Honey  Noyau. 

Time  to  make,  ten  days. 

Four  ounces  of  bitter  almonds  ;  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  ;  two 
pounds  of  loaf  sugar  ;  juice  of  three  lemons  ;  two  quarts  of  gin  ;  two  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  clarified  honey  ;  one  pint  of  milk. 

Blanch  and  pound  the  almonds,  and  mix  them  with  the  sugar,  which 
should  be  rolled.  Boil  the  milk,  and  when  cold,  mix  all  the  ingredients 
together,  and  let  them  stand  ten  days,  shaking  them  every  day.  Filter 
the  mixture  through  blotting  paper,  bottle  off  for  use,  and  seal  the  corks 
down. 

Seeds  and  Dried  Vegetables  for  Winter  Use. 

Keep  celery  and  parsley  seed  in  the  store-room  for  flavouring  soup 
and  making  parsley  sauce.    The  seed  boiled  giving  the  flavour. 

Liebig's  extract  of  meat  can  be  flavoured  by  boiling  vegetables,  herbs, 
etc.  in  water  first,  and  making  the  soup  with  this  flavoured  boiling  water. 
A  preparation  of  vegetables — i.e.f  of  finely  shred  carrots,  turnips,  onions, 
celery,  etc.  is  sold  in  packets  by  La  Compagnie  Francaise  d' Alimentation 
for  flavouring  this  soup  also,  but  the  vegetables  boiled  and  the  water  used 
will  be  found  the  better  way.  As  an  addition  to  stock  made  from  bones 
alone,  flavoured  with  vegetables,  Liebig's  extract  is  most  useful ;  a  capital 
and  most  nutritious  tureen  of  soup  being  produced  from  the  admixture  of 
a  very  small  quantity  of  the  extract. 

PICKLING   AND   PRESERVING. 

Pickling  is  preserving  fruit  or  vegetables  in  vinegar.  Orleans,  or  white- 
wine  vinegar,  though  the  dearest  to  purchase,  will  be  found  the  cheapest 
in  the  end,  as  it  keeps  best :  indeed  the  success  of  pickling  depends  on  the 
goodness  of  the  vinegar.     It  must,  if  boiled,  be  done  in  saucepans  lined 


Pickling  and  Preservi?ig.  225 


with  unglazed  earthenware,  or  in  stone  pipkins  ;  if  these  are  not  to  be  had, 
the  vinegar  must  not  be  suffered  to  remain  a  moment  longer  than  neces- 
sary in  the  tin  saucepan.  Wooden  spoons  must  also  be  used  in  preparing 
pickles,  as  the  vinegar  acts  chemically  on  metal ;  also  no  glazed  earthen- 
ware may  be  used  for  keeping  it,  as  the  vinegar  acting  on  the  glaze  pro- 
duces a  mineral  poison. 

Everything  relating  to  the  art  of  pickling  will  be  found  in  Warne's 
"  Model  Cookery  Book,"  but  we  add  a  few  general  instructions  of  our  own, 
Here  is  an  East  Indian  mode  of  pickling  : — 

Take  one  pound  of  raw  ginger,  soak  it  in  water  one  night,  then  cut  it 
into  thin  slices  and  lay  it  on  a  clean  sieve  to  dry.  Take  two  ounces  of 
long  pepper,  cut  it  in  slices  as  you  did  the  ginger  ;  then  take  a  pound  of 
garlic,  lay  it  in  strong  brine  for  three  days,  and  then  dry  it  as  you  did  the 
ginger.  Then  mash  it  well,  or  cut  it  in  slices.  Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  mustard  seed  into  a  mortar  with  half  an  ounce  of  turmeric,  half  a  pound 
of  made  mustard,  and  plenty  of  Cayenne  pepper.  When  all  these  ingre- 
dients are  prepared  put  them  into  a  large  stone  jar,  with  a  gallon  of 
vinegar,  stir  it  well  and  often  for  a  fortnight  and  tie  it  over  closely.  Into 
this  pickle  you  can  put  any  kind  of  vegetables  which  have  been  first  well 
dried. 

The  whole  process  is  a  cold  one  ;  the  vinegar  is  not  to  be  boiled. 

This  pickle  will  keep  good  for  years  if  replenished  occasionally  with 
vinegar.     Keep  it  filled  with  vegetables. 

Then  there  is  the  simple  one  of  cold  vinegar  alone,  without  mustard  or 
spices  : — Half  fill  some  large  glass  bottles  with  vinegar,  drop  into  it  any 
vegetables  which  being  hot  in  themselves  do  not  require  spices,  etc.  In  one 
bottle  put  capsicums  and  chilis  ;  in  another,  horseradish,  eschalots  or 
garlic.  Fill  each  bottle  and  cork  the  bottles  well  down,  tie  them  over  with 
bladders. 

Horseradish  must  be  scraped  and  cut  up  in  rounds  about  half  an  inch 
thick. 

The  other  mode  of  pickling  is  with  hot  vinegar.  It  should  not  be 
boiled,  as  it  loses  its  strength  by  evaporation.  The  vinegar  must  be  put 
with  the  spices  into  a  stone  jar,  bunged  well  down  and  covered  with  a 
bladder.  It  may  then  stand  in  the  oven  for  three  days,  shaking  it  two  or 
three  times  a  day.  The  vegetables  should  be  prepared  by  laying  them  in 
brine,  or  sprinkling  them  with  salt  for  a  day  or  two  ;  then  put  them  into 
glass  bottles  and  pour  the  hot  vinegar  on  them.  In  every  case  the  vinegar 
must  be  two  or  three  inches  above  the  vegetables  or  they  will  not  keep, 
for  the  vinegar  will  gradually  be  absorbed  in  the  pickles  and  will  therefore 
shrink.     When  this  is  the  case  more  vinegar  must  be  added. 

These  modes  of  pickling  will  answer  for  all  vegetables  but  wslnuts, 
artichokes,  and  beetroot,  which  must  be  done  over  the  fire  themselves. 
See  "  Cookery  Book  "  for  these  especial  pickles,  and  for  many  others. 

Samphire. — This  seaside  wild  plant,  very  much  used  in  the  reign  of 
our  good  Queen  Bess,  is  now  not  common.  Our  readers  doubtless  re- 
member the  passage  from  "  King  Lear,"  in  which  Shakspeare  alludes  to 
the  dangers  to  which  the  samphire  gatherer  was  exposed. 

"How  fearful 
And  dizzy  'tis,  to  cast  one's  eyes  so  low  ! 

Q 


2  2  6  Pickling  and  Preserving. 


The  crows  and  choughs  that  wing  the  midway  air, 

Show  scarce  so  gross  as  beetles  ;  halfway  down 

Hangs  one  that  gathers  samphire  ; — dreadful  trade  I 

Methinks  he  seems  no  bigger  than  his  head. 

*  *  *  *  *  *  « 

I'll  look  no  more 
Lest  my  brain  turn,  and  the  deficient  sight 
Topple  down  headlong. " 

One  has  some  reason  to  rejoice  that  this  "dreadful  trade"  is  no  longer 
remunerative  ! 

Samphire  when  gathered  for  immediate  eating,  is  only  put  into  equal 
parts  of  sea-water  and  vinegar.  For  pickling,  steep  it  in  brine  for  two 
days  ;  then  put  it  into  a  jar  with  vinegar  and  bake  in  a  cool  oven  all  night, 
the  top  of  the  jar  must  be  covered  with  a  paste  of  flour  and  water.  When 
it  is  done  and  cool,  remove  the  paste,  put  the  pickle  into  a  glass  bottle, 
fill  up  with  cold  vinegar  and  tie  down  as  for  all  pickles. 

Barberries  pickled  for  garnishing,  are  dropped  into  cold  vinegar.  They 
must  be  gathered  before  they  are  ripe.     Nice  bunches  to  be  chosen. 

Another  Mode  of  Preserving  Barberries. 

They  must  be  gathered  when  not  over  ripe,  and  the  leaves  and  dead 
stalks  should  be  picked  off ;  after  which  they  should  be  placed  in  jars  in 
a  large  quantity  of  salt  and  water,  and  tied  down  with  a  bladder.  They 
must  be  looked  at  occasionally,  and  as  soon  as  a  scum  is  seen  to  rise  on 
them  they  should  be  put  into  new  salt  and  water. 

Nasturtium  Buds. 

Gather  the  seeds  in  sunny  weather,  and  sprinkle  them  with  salt  for  a 
day  or  two.  Drain  them  from  the  salt,  wipe  them,  and  put  them  into  a 
pickle  bottle.  Boil  some  vinegar,  with  one  ounce  of  salt  to  every  pint  of 
vinegar,  pepper-corns  and  allspice.  Let  it  get  cold  and  cork  closely  down 
for  use.  These  seeds  will  serve  instead  of  capers  for  sauce  for  boiled 
mutton,  or  they  may  be  eaten  as  pickles. 

Glass  bottles  should  be  used  to  keep  pickles  in,  and  they  must  stand 
in  a  very  dry  place. 

A  friend  of  the  writer  advises  improving  the  purchased  pickles  rather 
than  making  them  wholly  at  home.  He  takes  some  bottles  of  Crosse  and 
Blackwell's  piccalilli,  turns  out  the  contents  and  washes  them  well  with 
plain  cold  vinegar.  Then  he  boils  up  vinegar,  ginger,  whole  peppers,  and 
a  quarter  pound  of  mustard  together  and  pours  it  over  the  pickles,  restores 
them  to  their  bottles  and  ties  them  down. 

List  of  Vegetables  for  Pickling  at  Certain  Periods. 

In  July  and  August. — Capsicums,  cauliflowers,  cucumbers,  chilis, 
gherkins,  onions,  nasturtiums,  walnuts,  radish  pods,  French  beans,  red 
cabbage,  samphire,  shalots,  garlic. 

October  and  September. — White  cabbage,  mushrooms,  forked  horse- 
radish, for  vinegar. 

Melons  (as  mangoes),  artichokes,  etc.,  about  August. 


Preserving. — Bet  lung.  227 


Pickles  should  bs  examined  often  ;  if  any  mould  appears  the  vinegar 
must  be  boiled  up  with  spices. 

Fill  the  bottles  up  with  vinegar  when  it  has  sunk  below  the  pickles. 
Red  cabbage  is  the  most  wholesome  pickle. 

Preserving. 

The  requisites  for  making  jams  and  jellies  are  enamelled  or  iron  pre- 
serving-pans (no  other  should  be  used),  a  wooden  spoon,  a  hair-sieve,  and 
a  jelly-bag  ;  copper  and  brass  pans  are  dangerous  on  account  of  the 
chemical  action  of  the  fruit  acid  on  the  metal ;  doubly-galvanized  iron  or 
block-tin  pans  are  safe,  but  they  are  apt  to  injure  the  colour  of  the 
preserves. 

The  sugar  used  for  jams  is  called  preserving  sugar,  it  is  a  coarse  white, 
and  costs  about  $d.  per  pound  at  present  ;  it  takes  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit  for  preserving,  with  the  exception  of 
damsons,  which  require  equal  weights  of  sugar  and  fruit. 

The  great  secret  of  preserving  well  is  the  boiling,  which  must  be  suf- 
ficiently long,  and  sufficiently  quick.  The  following  general  directions 
will,  it  is  hoped,  suffice  in  a  work  of  this  kind. 

Gather  the  fruit  in  sunshine  if  possible,  if  not,  in  perfectly  dry  weather, 
and  without  dust.  Pick  the  fruit  off  its  stems,  etc.,  top  and  tail  goose- 
berries ;  boil  all  fruit  for  jellies  or  jams  alone  for  twenty  minutes,  to  eva- 
porate the  water  they  contain  ;  skim  carefully.  Make  the  sugar  warm 
before  the  fire  meantime,  then  add  it  to  the  fruit  and  stir  gently  but  con- 
tinually, removing  the  scum  as  it  rises  till  the  jam  is  done  thoroughly. 
Then  put  it  in  white  jam-pots  to  cool.  Next  day  cover  with  paper 
saturated  with  white  of  egg  or  starch. 

Different  fruits  require  different  times  for  boiling.  Excellent  directions 
for  every  one  of  them  will  be  found  in  the  "  Model  Cookery  Book." 

Keep  jams  in  a  cool  place,  or  they  will  be  liable  to  ferment.  Examine 
the  pots  now  and  then.  If  the  paper  at  the  top  is  stained,  or  the  jam  has 
run  over  the  sides  of  the  jar,  it  must  be  opened  and  the  jam  boiled  up  again. 

Clarifying  sugar  for  sweetmeats  is  a  confectioners  art ;  it  will  be  found 
in  the  "  Model  Cookery  Book,"  p.  594. 

Candying  fruits  is  done  by  first  preserving  the  fruit  in  sugar  syrup, 
then  washing  the  syrup  off  in  hot  water,  drying  the  fruit  before  the  fire, 
and  sifting  double-refined  sugar  over  it  till  it  is  quite  white  ;  it  is  then  put 
in  a  moderate  oven  to  dry. 

For  jellies  the  juice  only  of  the  fruit  is  boiled  with  the  sugar,  and 
finally  strained  through  the  jelly-bag. 

Bottling, 

This  mode  of  preserving  fruit  depends  wholly  on  the  exclusion  of  the 
air  from  the  bottle  in  which  they  are  put.  The  following  is  the  best 
plan  : — 

Nearly  fill  a  dry  bottle  with  dry  fruit,  say  cherries  (do  not  break  the 
fruit  in  any  way — cut  off  the  stalks),  add  to  every  pound  of  cherries  three 
ounces  of  sugar  ;  tie  them  tightly  down  with  starched  paper  covered  with 
bladder,  keep  them  in  the  oven  all  night,  putting  them  in  at  nine  o'clock 
in  the  evening.     Remove  them  next  morning  before  the  fire  is  lighted ; 

cj   2 


Herb  Mixture. — Preserved  Meats. 


put  them  in  a  dry,  cool,  dark  cellar,  or  bury  them  in  the  garden  head 
downwards  and  at  least  a  foot  deep,  mark  the  spot  and  dig  up  when 
required. 

Preserving  in  Spirit. 

The  fruit  must  be  pricked  with  a  fine  needle,  sugar  strewn  over  it,  and 
the  glass  bottle  filled  up  with  brandy  or  wine,  as  required.  See  "  Model 
Cookery"  for  individual  receipts. 


There  is  very  little  economy  in  home-made  jams  in  London,  or  indeed 
anywhere  else  unless  the  housemother  has  a  garden  and  home-grown 
fruit.  Crosse  and  Blackwell's  jams  and  jellies  are  excellent,  and  allowing 
for  fire,  labour,  and  possible  failure,  it  is  as  cheap  to  buy  jams  and  jellies 
as  to  make  them  ;  but  in  the  country  and  with  a  good  fruit  garden  this  is, 
of  course,  not  the  case,  and  the  good  housekeeper  will  do  well  there,  in 
making  jams  and  jellies,  according  to  good  receipts,  for  household  use. 

Herb  Mixture, 

Two  ounces  of  knotted  marjoram,  two  ounces  of  winter  savory,  one 
ounce  of  basil,  one  ounce  of  tarragon. 

Rub  these  dried  herbs  together  and  put  them  into  a  spare  clean  dry 
pickle  bottle.     Cork  them  closely  down  for  future  use. 

Preserved  Meats, 

Potted  preserved  meats  when  bought  at  a  tradesman's  who  can  be  relied 
on  are  excellent.  Potted  ham,  tongue,  beef,  bloaters,  etc.,  are  very  useful 
for  breakfast  or  light  supper.  Cold  boiled  beef  sold  in  tins,  cold  chicken, 
etc.,  are  excellent,  so  also  are  beef  and  bouilli,  but  it  requires  a  little 
additional  flavouring.  Australian  boiled  mutton  is  also  a  cheap  and 
excellent  food.  For  invalids,  Joubert  combines  meat  extract  with  iodine 
and  bromine,  and  recommends  the  combination  in  cases  of  chlorosis  and 
consumption.  Two  gr.  extr.  carnis  are  mixed  with  fifteen  ctgr.  kal.  iodat. 
or  kal.  bromatum. — Food  Journal. 

The  potted  soups  all  require  flavouring  and  the  addition  of  fresh 
vegetables,  wine,  lemon-juice,  ketchup,  herbs,  etc  ;  but  well-managed  they 
save  trouble.  They  are  not,  however,  as  cheap,  nor  (when  it  is  well  made) 
as  good  as  home-made  soups.     They  are  is.  a  tin. 

One  tin  of  the  Condensed  Swiss  Milk  should  be  kept  in  the  store-room 
as  a  resource  if  the  milk  of  the  house  fails.  It  is  diluted  with  warm 
water  for  use,  according  to  the  taste  and  judgment  of  the  user. 

We  conclude  in  the  words  of  a  Journal  which  every  housekeeper 
should  take  in  : 

"  Let  me  recommend  two  convenient  additions  to  the  store  closet. 
Pastilles  for  soup,  which  consist  of  balls  composed  of  vegetable  matter 
(sold  in  bottles,  and  costing  about  a  halfpenny  a  ball),  are  invaluable  for 
colouring  and  flavouring  soups,  only  requiring  to  be  added  with  the  meat 
or  bones  ;  as  are  also  dried  mushrooms,  an  Italian  preparation,  but  un- 
fortunately three  times  the  price  in  London  that  one  has  to  give  in  Italy  ; 


/     Fotato     i akes. 
'.'    Pink  Fritters. 


3,  Raspberry  Bitters 
■/<.   ./  Birds  West. 
5.  Arrowroot  Fritters. 


6.  Urmiae  hitters. 

7.  Miici  -f/i  (>//i. 


Night-lights.- 


Useful  Receipts. 


229 


nevertheless,  in  flavouring  dishes  a  little  goes  a  long  way,  and  they  can  of 
course  be  used  when  mushrooms  are  out  of  season.  Both  the  pastilles  and 
mushrooms  are  to  be  obtained  at  Piccirillo's,  Wigrhbre-street,  London. 

"Do  not  throw  away  as  utterly  worthless  the  remainders  of  lemons 
which  have  been  peeled  and  squeezed.  Lemons  have  very  cleansing  pro- 
perties, and  such  fragments  if  put  into  the  scullery  soap-dish  will  cleanse 
both  the  hands  of  the  cook,  and  her  saucepans,"— Food  Journal 

Night  Lights. 

Nightlights  are  merely  short  pieces  of  stearic  acid,  or  stearine,  with  a 
fine  wick  enclosed  in  a  thin  roll  of  paper  or  wood  shaving.  They  are  burnt 
in  a  little  glass  or  china  stand  holding  water  to  prevent  the  envelope  igniting. 
They  are  sold  at  6d.  the  box,  A  good  supply  should  be  kept  in  the  store- 
room, and  a  box  at  a  time  should  be  given  to  the  housemaid. 


A   FEW   USEFUL    RECEIPTS. 


Brown  Colouring. 
To  make  for  keeping. 

Into  a  clean  fryipg-pan  put  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Place 
this  over  a  slow  fire,  then  gradually 
heat  it  until  the  sugar  boils  and 
the  steam  bubbles  disappear,  and 
are  followed  by  others  from  which 
issue  little  puffs  of  white  smoke. 
When  these  appear  all  over  the  sur- 
face the  caramel,  as  the  sugar  is 
then  called,  is  in  its  best  condition. 
Remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  add 
a  pint  of  lime  water.*  This  will  dis- 
solve all  the  true  colouring.  Strain 
it  through  muslin,  and  preserve  it 
in  a  bottle  for  use.  The  more  sugar 
used  the  darker  will  be  the  colour- 
ing. 

Colourings  for  Jellies,  Ices,  or  Cakes. 

For  a  beautiful  red,  boil  fifteen 
grains  of  cochineal,  finely  powdered, 
with  one  and  a  half  drachm  of  cream 
of  tartar,  in  half  a  pint  of  water, 
slowly  for  half  an  hour,  adding  a 
piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  pea  ;  or 
sliced  beet-root    and    some    liquor 


poured  over  it,  may  be  used.  For 
white,  use  almonds  finely  powdered, 
with  a  little  water,  or  use  cream.  For 
yellow,  yolks  of  eggs,  or  a  very  small 
piece  of  saffron  steeped  in  the  liquor 
and  squeezed.  The  juice  of  boiled 
spinach  or  beet-leaves  may  be  used 
for  green.  Chocolate  or  strong  cof- 
fee may  be  used  for  brown. 

Orange  Fritters. 

Take  the  peel  and  white  skin  from 
three  large  oranges  ;  then  cut  them 
across  into  slices ;  pick  out  the  seeds ; 
dip  each  slice  of  orange  into  a  thick 
batter.  Fry  them  nicely,  and  serve 
them  with  sugar  sifted  over  each. 

Arrowroot  Fritters. 

Put  a  pint  of  new  milk  and  the 
same  of  cream  over  the  fire  until  it 
boils  ;  mix  two  ounces  of  arrowroot 
very  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk, 
and  stir  it  as  quickly  as  possible  into 
the  boiling  milk  and  cream  ;  add  a 
little  vanilla,  the  yolks  of  eight  well 
beaten  eggs,  and  sugar  to  taste  ;  stir 
it  for  about  twenty  minutes  over  a 
quick  fire,  then  put  it  into  a  deep 


*  Lime  water  is  made  by  placing  a  lump  of  quicklime  the  size  of  a  walnut  in  a 
winebottle  full  of  hot  water,  and  allowing  it  to  settle  for  a  day. 


Useful  Receipts. 


cutlet  pan,  and  bake  it  about  ten 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  When  it 
is  cold,  cut  out  the  fritters  with  a 
round  cutter,  and  egg,  bread-crumb, 
and  fry  them  ;  glaze  and  send  them 
up  very  hot,  with  greengage  or 
apricot  sauce  in  the  dish. 

Pink  Fritters. 

Boil  a  large  beet-root  till  it  is  ten- 
der, and  then  beat  it  fine  in  a  mortar ; 
add  the  yolks  of  four  beaten  eggs, 
two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  three  of 
cream  ;  sweeten  it  to  your  taste, 
grate  in  some  nutmeg,  and  the  peel 
of  half  a  lemon,  and  add  a  glass  of 
brandy.  Mix  all  well  together,  and 
fry  the  fritters  in  butter  ;  garnish 
them  with  green  sweetmeats,  apricots 
preserved,  or  green  sprigs  of  myrtle. 

Raspberry  Fritters. 

Grate  two  Naples  biscuits  ;  pour 
over  them  half  a  gill  of  boiling 
cream,  and  set  it  to  cool.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  into  a  strong  froth, 
and  then  beat  them  into  the  soaked 
biscuits.  Add  two  ounces  of  sugar 
pounded  fine,  and  as  much  raspberry 
juice  as  will  flavour  it  and  give,  it  a 
pink  colour.  Drop  it  from  a  spoon, 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  into  a  pan  of 
boiling  fat,  and  when  done,  drain 
them  from  the  fat,  stick  shreds  of 
citron  into  some,  and  blanched  al- 
monds cut  into  long  strips  into 
others.     Garnish  with  sweetmeats. 

Potato  Cakes. 

Boil  and  mash  three  mealy  pota- 
toes ;  mix  them  with  three  ounces  of 
sugar,  three  ounces  of  flour,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter, and  two  well  beaten  eggs.  Make 
them  into  cakes  ;  fry  a  nice  brown, 
and  serve  them  on  a  table  napkin. 
(See  also  Article  on  "  Potatoes.") 

A  Bird's  Nest. 

Cut  the  peel  of  six  lemons  in  long 
thin  shreds  ;  cut  the  same  quantity 


of  angelica  in  shreds  ;  put  half  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  one  ounce  of 
gum  Arabic,  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  water  into  a  basin  ;  stir  it  till  it 
is  dissolved,  then  set  it  over  a  slow 
fire,  stirring  it  till  it  is  of  the  con- 
sistence of  melted  glue.  Take  a 
basin,  butter  it  or  slightly  oil  it  in- 
side, then  lay  the  shreds  of  angelica 
and  lemon  peel  in  the  form  of  a  bird's 
nest  inside  it;  stick  them  with  the 
glue.  Make  some  good  isinglass  jelly, 
colour  it  with  spinach  juice  ;  take  a 
basin  about  two  sizes  smaller  than 
the  first  used,  butter  or  oil  the  outside 
of  it ;  pour  a  little  jelly  over  the  bot- 
tom of  the  nest ;  stand  the  second 
basin  in  the  first,  and  fill  up  the  space 
between  the  two  basins  with  the  liquid 
jelly ;  let  it  get  cold — ice  it ;  turn  it  out 
carefully,  and  stand  the  nest  on  the 
remainder  of  the  jelly  which  must 
have  been  poured  flat  over  a  glass 
dish,  and  let  get  cold.  Make  eggs 
of  blancmange  and  place  in  the 
nest,  or  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a 
thick  froth,  and  form  them  into  eggs 
for  it,  flavouring  with  vanilla ;  but 
the  blancmange  eggs  are  best,  and 
the  moulds  easily  procured. 

A  Cheap  and  Elegant  Cream. 

Time,  nearly  an  hour  to  beat  the  eggs 
— twenty  minutes  more  altogether. 

One  quart  of  milk ;  six  eggs  ; 
vanilla  flavouring  ;  sugar  to  taste. 

Set  the  milk  in  a  stewpan  on  the 
fire  to  boil ;  break  the  whites  of  six 
eggs  into  one  T?asin,  and  the  yolks 
into  another  ;  fr  ^at  up  the  eggs  to  a 
high  stiff  froth,  and  as  soon  as  the 
milk  boils  lay '  u-ge  flakes  of  the  egg 
whip  on  the  milk  ;  let  them  boil  for 
a  few  minutes  ;  repeat  the  operation 
with  the  remainder  of  the  froth  until 
all  has  been  set,  then  pile  it  high  in 
the  centre  of  a  glass  dish  ;  make  a 
custard  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
flavoured  with  vanilla,  and  pour  it 


Useful  Receipts. 


231 


round  the  snowy  pyramid.     It  will 
maintain  its  place  for  many  hours. 

Thatched  Pudding. 
Time,  twenty  minutes. 

Two  ounces  of  butter ;  two  dessert- 
spoonfuls of  flour  ;  a  little  cold  milk  ; 
half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk ;  two 
lemons;  four  eggs;  angelica;  lemon 
peel — six  or  eight  almonds. 

Melt  two  ounces  of  butter,  mix 
two  dessertspoonfuls  of  flour  with  a 
little  cold  milk,  till  quite  smooth  ; 
pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  boiling- 
milk,  add  the  peel  of  a  lemon  grated, 
and  sugar  to  taste.  When  cold  stir 
in  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  add  the  whites  whisked  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  stirred  into  the  pudding 
the  last  thing  before  putting  it  into 
the  mould.  Wet  a  mould ;  line  it 
thickly  with  shreds  of  lemon  peel 
and  angelica  with  little  bits  of  shred 
almonds  interspersed,  dipped  in 
white  of  egg.  Pour  the  pudding  in 
very  carefully,  and  boil  it  for  twenty 
minutes. 

Biscuit  Pudding. 

Three  ounces  of  flour,  the  same  of 
pounded  sugar  and  butter,  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  two, 
mix  all  well  together,  having  pre- 
viously warmed  the  butter,  and  beat 
the  mixture  for  ten  minutes  ;  put 
some  thin  strips  of  candied  peel  into 
some  small  moulds,  pour  in  the  mix- 
ture and  bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a 
slow  oven. 


Ploating  Island. 

Set  a  quart  of  rich  milk  to  boil, 
when  it  does  so,  stir  into  it  two  small 
tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  and 
the  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs  ;  flavour 
with  lemon  or  peach  water  ;  whip  the 
whites  to  a  high  froth ;  when  the 
custard  is  thick,  put  it  into  a  deep 
china  or  glass  dish,  and  heap  the 
frothed  eggs  upon  it ;  it  may  be 
finished  by  putting  a  spoonful  of 
jelly  or  jam  over  the  frothed  eggs. 

Broiled  Lobster. 

After  having  boiled  the  lobster, 
split  it  from  head  to  tail,  take  out 
the  uneatable  part  called  the  "  lady," 
lay  it  open,  put  pieces  of  butter  over 
the  meat,  sprinkle  it  with  pepper, 
and  set  the  shells  on  a  gridiron  over 
bright  coals  until  nicely  heated 
through.     Serve  in  the  shells. 

Ice  Pudding. 

Make  a  thin  custard  with  a  pint 
of  milk  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
keeping  out  a  little  milk  to  mix  with 
some  currants,  raisins,  the  crumb 
of  a  sponge  cake,  candied  lemon 
and  citron,  grape,  apricot,  or  any 
thing  that  is  nice.  Scald  the  cur- 
rants and  raisins  and  mix  them  with 
the  cold  milk,  then  stir  all  together, 
and  put  it  into  the  mould  ;  plunge  it 
in  a  bucket  of  ice  pounded  with 
salt,  turning  the  mould  every  two 
hours,  and  the  inside  occasionally. 
Flavour  with  vanilla. 


232 


COOLING    SUMMER    AND 
WINTER   DRINKS. 


HOT 


ICE. 

Ice,  once  a  luxury  enjoyed  only  by  the  rich,  has  become  a  necessity 
of  daily  life.  Rough  ice,  at  id.  or  2d.  per  lb.  is  used  in  summer  for 
keeping  fish  good,  and  cooling  butter  in  nearly  all  well-to-do  families,  and 
by  thus  saving  our  food  it  is  really  an  economy. 

Ice  is  also  most  useful  in  many  cases  of  illness  ;  in  fevers,  spinal  affec- 
tions, etc.  etc. 

Its  use  in  cooling  drinks  was  known  from  the  most  remote  antiquity. 
The  manufacture  of  ices  was  an  invention  of  the  seventeenth  century. 

Ice  can  now  be  artificially  produced  by  machinery,  by  evaporation, 
etc.  etc.,  but  it  is  seldom  made  at  home  except  in  wealthy  households. 

The  importance  of  being  able  to  keep  small  quantities  of  ice  for  various 
purposes,  and  especially  in  sick  rooms  for  medical  use,  cannot  be  over- 
rated. Dr.  Schwarz  has  communicated  to  the  public  the  following  simple 
method,  which  he  has  practised  with  success.  He  says,  "  Put  the  ice  in  a 
deep  dish  or  jug,  cover  it  with  a  plate,  and  place  the  vessel  on  a  pillow 
stuffed  with  feathers,  and  cover  the  top  with  another  pillow  carefully,  by 
this  means  excluding  the  external  air.  Feathers  are  well-known  bad  con- 
ductors of  heat,  and  in  consequence  the  ice  is  preserved  from  melting." 
Dr.  Schwarz  states  that  he  has  thus  preserved  six  pounds  of  ice  for  eight 
days.     The  plan  is  simple,  and  within  the  reach  of  every  household. 


To  Keep  Ice. 

Make  a  double  pocket  of  any 
kind  of  strong  woollen  cloth,  no 
matter  how  faded  and  coarse  it  is. 
Have  a  space  of  two  inches  or  so 
between  the  inner  and  outer  pockets, 
and  pack  this  space  as  full  as  pos- 
sible with  feathers.  You  have  no 
need  to  use  geese  feathers  ;  hen's 
feathers  are  just  as  good.  With  a 
pocket  thus  constructed,  and  kept 
closely  tied  at  the  mouth,  a  few 
pounds  of  ice  may  be  kept  a  week. 

Buttermilk. 

Buttermilk  is  a  very  cooling  sum- 
mer drink.  It  must  be  drunk,  how- 
ever, the  first  day,  for  it  is  not  fit  for 


drinking  afterwards.  Sweeten  with  a 
little  sugar,  and  add  grated  nutmeg 
to  taste. 

Curds  and  Whey. 

Half  a  drachm  of  citric  acid  to  a 
pint  of  milk.  This  will  make  good 
curds  and  whey. 

Lemon  Tea. 

Weak  green  tea  let  get  cold,  and 
with  half  a  lemon  squeezed  into  it, 
makes  an  excellent  beverage. 

Wine  Sangaree. 

Put  a  gill  of  wine  (Port  or  Ma- 
deira) into  a  tumbler,  add  to  it  water, 
hot  or  cold,  nearly  to  fill  it,  sweeten 
with  loaf-sugar  to  taste,  grate  nut- 


Barley  Milk. — Barley  Water,  etc.  etc. 


233 


meg  over,  and  serve  with  sponge- 
cake or  Savoy  biscuit,  cut  small. 

Barley  Milk. 

Half  pound  of  pearl-barley,  three 
pints  of  milk,  one  quart  of  cream, 
cinnamon  and  sugar  to  taste,  one 
pint  of  sherry. 

Boil  the  pearl-barley  in  the  milk 
till  it  is  done  ;  add  the  cream,  cinna- 
mon and  sugar  to  taste.  When 
nearly  cold,  pour  into  it  a  pint  of 
Sherry  or  Marsala  ;  raisin  wine  also 
answers  very  well,  and  the  cream 
may  be  omitted. 

Simple  Barley  Water. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  very  clean 
pearl-barley,  two  ounces  of  lump 
sugar  and  lemon-juice. 

Put  the  pearl-barley  in  a  jug  with 
the  sugar  required,  fill  it  up  with 
boiling  water,  and  keep  stirring  for 
a  few  moments,  cover,  and  let  it 
stand  till  cold.  Flavour  with  lemon- 
juice  or  cinnamon. 

Barley  Water. 
The  best  way. 

Half  a  teacupful  of  the  very  best 
pearl-barley  in  a  quart  of  water. 

Let  the  barley  boil  well  till  it  is 
smooth  ;  then  strain  it  off  into  a 
mug  ;  while  the  barley  is  boiling,  peel 
one  large  lemon,  or  two  small  ones, 
as  thin  as  possible,  put  the  peel  into 
a  tumbler,  pour  boiling  water  over  it. 
and  cover  it  closely.  This  extracts 
all  the  flavour.  Add  the  water  from 
the  peel,  and  the  peel  itself  to  the 
barley-water,  with  the  juice  of  the 
lemon  (strained  from  the  pips,  which 
would  make  it  bitter) ;  add  loaf-sugar 
to  taste.  The  barley-water  must  not 
be  too  thick,  and  before  the  lemon  is 
added,  when  it  is  poured  from  the 
saucepan,  it  should  be  strained 
through  muslin. 


Toast  and  Water. 

Fill  a  jug  with  boiling  water. 
carefully  drop  into  it  a  piece  of  bread 
toasted  very  brown.  Let  it  stand  till 
cold. 

If  the  water  be  poured  on  the  toast 
instead  of  the  toast  being  dropped  in, 
the  liquid  will  look  cloudy  and  dis- 
coloured ;  it  ought  to  look  as  clear 
as  sherry.  Some  persons  make  toast 
and  water  with  cold  water ;  this  is 
very  nice  when  you  are  quite  sure  of 
the  goodness  of  the  water  itself ;  but 
as  boiling  water  destroys  much  that 
is  bad  in  it,  we  think  it  advisable  to 
boil  it  first.  If  the  water  be  cold,  the 
toast  had  better  approach  the  state 
of  charcoal.  But  boiling  water,  with 
the  toast,  as  we  have  said,  carefully 
dropped  into  it,  can  be  strained  when 
it  is  coloured,  and  then  poured  from 
jug  to  jug  till  it  is  once  more  filled 
with  carbonic  acid  from  the  air. 

Hhubarb  Tea. 
Time,  quarter  of  an  hour. 

Two  pounds  of  rhubarb-sticks, 
one  lemon,  sugar  to  taste — one  quart 
of  water. 

Slice  the  rhubarb,  boil  it  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  in  a  quart  of 
water  ;  strain  it  into  a  jug,  add  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  little  sugar 
after  it  is  cold. 

Apple  Tea. 
Time,  half  an  hour. 

Two  pounds  of  apples,  half  a 
lemon,  sugar — one  quart  of  water. 

Peel,  core,  and  cut  up  the  apples 
in  quarters ;  boil  for  half  an  hour, 
strain  the  liquor  into  a  jug,  squeeze 
in  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  sweeten 
to  taste. 

Soyer's  Apple  Water. 

One  gallon  of  water,  one  pound  of 
apples,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  slice 
of  bread. 


234 


Apple,  Fig,  French  Plum  Water,  etc. 


Boil  the  water ;  while  it  boils  cut 
up  the  apples  in  quarters.  Boil  them 
till  they  can  be  pulped  in  the  boiling 
water,  strain  through  a  colander ; 
boil  the  strained  liquor  up  again,  with 
half  a  pound  of  white  sugar — skim 
well ;  slowly  toast  a  piece  of  bread 
till  it  gets  quite  black,  and  put  it  in 
the  apple-water — let  it  get  cold. 
Keep  it  in  bottles,  without  a  cork,  in 
a  cool  place. 

Apple  Barley  Water. 

One  gallon  of  water,  one  pound 
of  apples,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pearl- 
barley,  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar. 

Cut  up  the  apples,  boil  them  till 
they  will  pulp  in  boiling  water ;  pass 
the  liquor  through  a  colander,  add 
the  sugar,  then  boil  up  again  and  re- 
move the  scum  ;  boil  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  barley  one  hour — add  it  to 
the  apple-water.  Put  it  into  bottles 
uncorked,  and  keep  for  use.  Keep 
it  in  a  cool  place. 

Apple  Water. 

Cut  some  tart  apples  very  small; 
pour  boiling  water  over  them,  and 
set  it  to  simmer  gently  for  half  an 
hour,  then  strain  off  the  liquor; 
sweeten  to  taste. 

Apple  Rice  Water. 

One  gallon  of  water,  one  pound 
of  apples,  half  a  pound  of  rice,  half  a 
pound  of  lump  sugar.  Bake  the  ap- 
ples, then  put  them  in  a  pan  and  add 
the  sugar  ;  pour  over  them  water  in 
which  the  rice  has  been  boiled  to  an 
utter  pulp.  Pass  through  a  colander. 
To  be  drunk  when  cold. 

Mulberry  Drink. 

Half  a  pound  of  mulberries,  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  sugar,  two  quarts  of 
cold  water — a  little  lemon-peel. 

Bruise  the  mulberries,  throw  the 
sugar  over  them,  and  add  a  little 


lemon-peel.  Pour  in  the  cold  water, 
stir  well,  allow  it  to  settle,  and  strain 
off  for  bottling.  A  very  delicious 
summer  drink. 

Fig  Water. 

Quarter  of  a  pound  of  preserved 
figs,  two  quarts  of  water,  half  an 
ounce  of  ginger. 

Boil  the  figs  to  a  pulp,  with  the 
ginger  ;  strain  off,  and  bottle. 

French  Plum  Water. 

Haifa  pound  of  French  plums,  two 
quarts  of  water,  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  ginger,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 

Pour  water  over  the  plums.  Boil 
them,  till  pulped,  with  the  ginger. 
Strain  off;  boil  up  again  with  sugar, 
and  skim  well.     Bottle  for  use. 

Green  Gooseberry  Water. 

One  pound  of  gooseberries,  one 
gallon  of  water,  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  ginger,  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  sugar. 

Boil  the  gooseberries  in  boiling 
water  till  they  pulp  ;  strain  through 
a  colander.  Boil  up  the  juice  again 
with  the  sugar  and  ginger.  Skim 
well  and  bottle. 

Red  Currant  Water. 

One  pound  of  red  currants,  half 
a  pound  of  raspberries,  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  one  gallon  of  cold  water. 

Put  in  the  fruit,  well  bruised,  to- 
gether with  the  sugar  pounded.  Stir 
well ;  let  it  settle,  and  strain  for 
bottling. 

Currant  Water. 

Having  pressed  the  juice  from 
ripe  currants,  strain  it  clear  ;  put  to 
each  pint  nearly  a  pound  of  white 
sugar  pounded  ;  add  cold  water  (or 
ice-water  if  you  have  it)  to  your 
taste  ;  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  and 
it  will  be  found  a  fine  cooling  be- 
verage. 


Capillaire  and  Cider  Cups. 


Cherry  Water. 

Pound  a  dozen  large  sour  cherries 
in  a  mortar,  so  as  to  break  the  ker- 
nels, then  put  them  into  a  tumbler, 
fill  it  two-thirds  with  water,  and  add 
sugar  to  taste.  This  is  a  cooling 
drink. 

Capillaire. 

Take  fourteen  pounds  of  sugar, 
break  six  eggs  in  with  the  shells,  stir 
with  it  gradually  three  quarts  of 
water,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  boil  it, 
and  take  off  the  scum  until  only  a 
light  froth  rises  ;  add  to  it  a  wine- 
glass of  orange-flower-water,  or  half 
as  much  lemon-extract  with  a  little 
vanilla,  then  strain  it  through  a  jelly- 
bag,  and  when  cold  bottle  it  ;  cork 
it  tight  to  keep.  A  wineglass  of  this 
put  to  a  tumbler  of  ice-water  is  a 
cool  and  refreshing  drink. 

A  glass  of  wine,  brandy  or  rum 
may  be  added. 

Cherry  Water  with  Capillaire. 

Put  a  wineglass  of  capillaire 
into  a  tumbler  ;  pound  a  dozen  large 
cherries  in  a  mortar,  so  as  to  break 
the  kernels,  then  put  them  in  the 
tumbler,  fill  it  two-thirds  with  ice- 
water,  and  serve  with  sponge-cakes  ; 
or,  instead  of  ice-water,  half  fill  the  ( 
tumbler  with  chipped  ice  then  put 
in  water. 

A  Summer  Drink. 

Two  eggs,  one  quart  of  water,  two 
and  a  half  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  two 
ounces  of  orange-flower-water,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  brandy. 

Beat  the  eggs  well,  add  the 
pounded  loaf  sugar  and  the  water  ; 
simmer  it  for  an  hour,  skimming  it 
well.  Let  it  cool.  Add  the  orange- 
flower-water  and  brandy  ;  strain  it 
through  a  jelly-bag.  A  spoonful  to 
a  tumbler  of  water  for  drinking. 


A  Cooling  Cider  Drink. 

One  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of 
soda,  as  much  again  powdered  loaf 
sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy,  one 
tumbler  of  cider. 

Mix  altogether  in  a  tumbler,  and 
fill  up  with  cider. 

Cider  Cup. 

Grate  nutmeg  and  gingei  over  a 
nice  toast,  put  it  at  the  bottom  of  a 
jug,  pour  over  it  a  wineglass  of  pale 
brandy.  Fill  up  with  cider.  Lay 
borage-leaves  at  the  top. 

Cider  Cup. 

To  one  quart  of  cider  add  one 
pint  of  German  seltzer-water,  a  small 
glass  of  Cognac  brandy,  a  bunch  of 
borage,  a  sliced  orange,  an  ounce  of 
sugarcandy  ;  place  these  in  a  large 
jug  embedded  in  ice  for  an  hour  and 
a  quarter,  then  strain  the  cup,  and 
serve. 

Cider  Cup. 

To  one  quart  of  cider  add  half  a 
lemon  squeezed,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  lump  sugar,  two  wine- 
glasses of  pale  brandy,  a  wineglass 
of  curacoa,  two  slices  of  lemon,  with 
grated  nutmeg  on  the  top.  Ice  well, 
and  serve  with  borage.  A  bottle  of 
soda-water  is  a  great  improvement. 

Toast  and  Cider. 

Take  some  thin  crisp  rounds  of 
toast  without  crust,  lay  a  round  in 
the  bottom  of  a  punch-bowl,  on  this 
sift  some  powdered  sugar  and  a  little 
brandy  ;  then  another  layer  of  toast 
with  sugar  and  brandy,  and  continue 
till  the  bowl  is  rather  more  than  half 
full.  Sweeten  (if  it  be  needed)  two 
quarts  of  cider,  throw  in  some  cloves, 
and  when  the  whole  is  very  hot  (do 
not  let  it  boil)  pour  it  on  the  toast,  and 
cover  the  bowl  down  closely.  In  an 
hour  it  will  be  ready  for  distributing 


236 


Cups. — Sherry  Cobbler. — Temperance  Beverage. 


in  saucers.     New  or  fresh   cream 
cheese  should  be  eaten  with  it. 

Ginger  Cool  Drink. 

To  six  gallons  of  water,  put  eight 
pounds  of  common  loaf  sugar,  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten  up, 
and  three  ounces  of  the  best  ginger 
finely  powdered  and  well  mixed  with 
a  little  water  before  it  is  added  to 
the  rest.  Let  it  boil  gently,  and 
take  off  the  scum  thoroughly  ;  it 
should  boil  one  hour  ;  let  it  cool, 
and  then  add  the  juice  of  three  large 
lemons,  and  also  the  peel,  taken  off 
as  thin  as  possible,  and  without  any 
of  the  white  ;  before  it  is  quite  cold, 
add  to  it  rather  more  than  a  table- 
spoonful  of  yeast,  and  then  put  the 
whole  in  a  cask  and  bung  it  up  very 
tight,  let  it  stand  for  a  fortnight 
more,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Claret  Cup. 

One  bottle  of  claret,  one  of  soda- 
water,  one  small  glass  of  brandy, 
and  a  lump  of  ice. 

Claret  Cup. 

One  bottle  of  claret,  one  bottle  of 
soda-water,  one  glass  of  brandy,  one 
strip  of  cucumber,  peel  of  half  a 
lemon,  one  large  lump  of  ice  ;  sugar 
to  taste. 

Expensive  Claret  Cup. 

Two  bottles  of  claret,  one  of 
champagne,  three  glasses  of  sherry, 
one  of  noyau,  half  pound  of  ice,  a 
few  slices  of  cucumber  ;  sugar  if  re- 
quired. 

Lay  a  sprig  of  flowering  borage 
on  the  top  of  these  cups. 

The  "Blues"  Cup. 

Four  quarts  of  water,  two  bottles 
of  cider,  one  bottle  of  perry,  one  pint 
of  sherry,  two  large  glasses  of  brandy, 
sprig  of  borage. 


Champagne  Cup. 

One  bottle  of  champagne,  two 
bottles  of  soda-water,  one  glass  of 
brandy,  one  pound  of  ice,  a  sprig  of 
flowering  borage,  or  two  or  three 
slices  of  cucumber,  and  two  ounces 
of  powdered  sugar. 

Champagne  Cup. 

One  bottle  of  champagne,  three 
wineglasses  of  sherry,  one  glass  of 
curacoa,  four  slices  of  lemon,  two 
J  slices  of  cucumber  (or  peel),  one  of 
J  pineapple,  one  bottle  of  soda-water, 
half  a  pound  of  ice. 

Porter  Cup. 

One  quart  of  porter,  half  a  pint  of 
sherry,  four  slices  of  lemon,  and  a 
little  nutmeg.     A  large  lump  of  ice. 

Sherry  Cobbler. 

Half  a  pint  of  sherry,  a  little 
mint,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a 
large  quantity  of  pounded  ice,  two 
slices  of  lemon,  a  bottle  of  soda- 
water — all  mixed  together. 

American  Temperance  Beverage. 

Twelve  lemons,  one  quart  of 
picked  raspberries,  one  ripe  West 
Indian  pine-apple,  two  pounds  of 
double  refined  sugar,  three  quarts  of 
iced  water. 

Peel  the  lemons  very  thin,  squeeze 
the  juice  of  all  over  the  peel,  and  let 
it  stand  all  night  (or  some  hours) 
to  get  out  the  essence.  Add  to  it 
two  pounds  of  double  refined  sugar. 
To  the  raspberries,  put  half  a  pound 
of  same  sugar  ;  pare  the  pine-apple 
and  cut  it  in  slices ;  lay  between  them 
half  a  pound  of  sugar.  Strain  the 
lemon-juice,  crush  the  raspberries, 
press  the  pine,  then  put  the  lemon- 
juice  into  a  bowl — add  to  it  three 
quarts  of  iced  water  ;  add  the  straw- 
berries and  pine-apple.  Stir  all  till 
the  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved  with 


Champagne  Beverage. — Mint  Julep. — Loving  Cupy  etc.        ^Zl 


the  juices.     Set  the  bowl  on  ice  an 
hour  before  serving. 
A  delicious  beverage. 

Champagne  Beverage. 

Twelve  lemons,  one  bottle  of 
champagne,  one  quart  of  strawber- 
xies,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar. 

Peel  the  lemons  very  thin,  squeeze 
the  juice  over  the  peel,  and  let  it 
stand  to  draw  out  the  essence  ;  add 
one  pound  of  sugar  to  the  lemon- 
juice.  Crush  the  strawberries  up 
with  half  a  pound  of  double  refined 
sugar. 

Put  the  lemon-juice  into  abowl,  add 
the  strawberries  and  stir  till  all  juice 
is  expressed.  Add  two  quarts  of 
iced  water,  and  one  bottle  of  cham- 
pagne ;  half  a  pound  of  ice  thrown 
in  it. 

Mint  Julep. 

Prepare  as  above,  and  to  the 
lemon  and  raspberry  juice  may  be 
added,  instead  of  champagne,  half  a 
pint  of  brandy  and  half  a  pint  of  rum, 
finely  chopped  ice,  and  sprigs  of 
fresh  green  mint. 

Red  Wine  Cup. 
For  either  French  or  Austrian 

Red  Wines. 
To  each  bottle  of  red  wine  add 
two  bottles  of  soda  water,  half  a  pint 
of  good  brown  sherry,  a  liqueur 
glass  of  curacoa,  a  few  slices  of  fresh 
lemon  ;  sugar  and  ice. 

Sparkling  or  Still  Moselle  Cup. 

To  each  bottle  of  Moselle  add  one 
bottle  of  soda  water,  a  glass  of  good 
sherry  or  brandy,  a  few  slices  of  pine 
apple,  the  peel  of  a  lemon  cut  very 
thin,  sugar  and  ice. 

Loving  Cup. 

One  pint  of  mountain  wine,  one 
pint  of  Madeira,  one  pint  of  Malmsey, 
(or  Calcavella,  Lisbon,  or  any  other 


sweet  white  wine),  one  bottle  of 
champagne,  a  liqueur  glass  of  good 
pale  brandy,  three  thin  slices  of 
lemon  ;  sugar,  nutmeg,  and  ice. 

Sparkling  Wine  Cup. 

For  Champagne,  Burgundy,  or 
Hock. 

To  each  bottle  of  the  above  add 
one  punnett  of  strawberries,  one 
liqueur  glass  of  curacoa,  or  brandy, 
sugar,  and  ice  ;  also  one  bottle  of 
soda  water  if  approved.  The  above 
may  be  varied  according  to  taste  or 
the  season,  by  substituting  other 
fruit,  such  as  raspberries,  pine-apples, 
pears,  etc. 

Orange  Brandy. 

The  peel  of  six  lemons,  the  peel 
of  eight  Seville  oranges,  three  and  a 
half  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  one  scruple 
of  saffron  ;  steep  the  above  in  one 
gallon  of  pale  brandy  for  forty-eight 
hours,  stirring  it  very  frequently, 
after  which  let  it  settle  and  bottle. 

The  remains  will  be  useful  for 
making  cakes. 

To  keep  lemon  Juice. 

To  every  pint  of  juice  put  a  pound 
of  double  refined  sugar ;  stir  it  until  the 
sugar  is  quite  dissolved  ;  then  bottle 
it.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  salad  oil  on 
the  top  and  cork  it  close.  When 
wanted  for  use  apply  a  bit  of  raw 
cotton  to  the  oil,  and  it  will  imme- 
diately be  absorbed.  Keep  it  in  ounce 
phials.  Put  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
this  juice  to  half  a  gill  of  iced  water 
for  drinking  ;  or  for  hot  lemonade 
use  boiling  water. 

Lemonade. 

Twelve  lemons  ;  one  pound  of  loaf 
sugar.  Peel  the  lemons  very  thinly. 
Squeeze  the  juice  from  twelve  fine 
lemons,  taking  care  to  strain  it  well 
from  pips  ;  put  to  it  one  pound  of 
loaf  sugar  ;  pour  a  little  boiling  water 


2^8 


Orange  and  Lemon  Beverages. 


-Lemon  Whey,  etc. 


on  the  peel  and  let  it  stand  to  infuse, 
covering  it  closely.  When  cold, 
strain  this  water  from  the  peel  into 
the  juice  and  sugar.  Put  it  into  de- 
canters for  present  use.  One  wine- 
glass to  half  a  pint  of  water. 

Slice  a  lemon  as  thin  as  possible, 
and  add  a  slice  to  each  glass  of 
lemonade. 

The  addition  of  a  piece  of  pine 
apple  to  each  glass  gives  a  delightful 
flavour. 

Orange  and  Lemon  Beverage. 

One  lemon  ;  six  oranges  ;  one  pint 
of  water ;  one  pound  of  sugar ;  add 
water  to  taste. 

Peel  both  the  lemon  and  oranges, 
cover  the  peels  with  boiling  water,  and 
let  them  infuse,  covering  them  closely. 
Squeeze  the  juice  of  oranges  and 
lemon.  Boil  the  water  and  sugar 
together  to  a  syrup,  skimming  it 
clear.  When  the  syrup  and  peel- 
water  are  cold,  mix  them,  straining 
the  water  from  the  peel  into  the 
syrup  ;  then  add  the  juice  ;  stir  it 
well.  Add  as  much  water  as  will 
make  it  a  pleasant  drink,  and  a  few 
lumps  of  ice. 

Lemonade  to  be  made  the  Day 
before  Wanted. 

Pare  two  dozen  lemons  as  thin  as 
possible,  put  eight  of  the  rinds  into 
three  quarts  of  hot,  not  boiling, 
water,  and  cover  it  over  for  three  or 
four  hours ;  rub  some  fine  sugar  on  the 
other  lemons  to  attract  the  essence, 
and  put  it  into  a  china  bowl,  into 
which  squeeze  the  juice  of  the  lemons. 
To  it  add  one  pound  and  half  of  fine 
sugar,  then  put  the  water  to  the 
above,  and  three  quarts  of  milk  made 
boiling  hot ;  mix  and  pour  through 
a  jelly-bag  till  perfectly  clear. 

Lemonade. 

Pare  a  number  of  lemons  accord- 
ing to  the  quantity  you  are  likely  to 
want ;  on  the  peels  pour  hot  water, 


but  more  juice  will  be  necessary  than 
you  need  use  the  peels  of.  While 
infusing,  boil  sugar  and  water  to  a 
good  syrup,  with  the  white  of  an  egg 
whipt  up  ;  when  it  boils,  pour  a  little 
cold  water  into  it ;  set  it  on  again, 
and  when  it  boils  up,  take  the  pan 
off,  and  put  it  to  settle.  If  there  is 
any  scum,  take  it  off,  and  pour  it 
clear  from  the  sediment  to  the  water 
the  peels  were  infused  in,  and  the 
lemon  juice  ;  stir  and  taste  it,  and 
add  as  much  water  as  shall  be  neces- 
sary to  make  a  very  rich  lemonade, 
then  strain  the  liquor,  which  is  un- 
commonly fine,  through  a  jelly-bag. 

Lemonade  that  has  the  Flavour  and 
Appearance  of  Jelly. 

Pare  two  Seville  oranges  and  six 
lemons  as  thin  as  possible,  and  steep 
them  four  hours  in  a  quart  of  hot 
water  ;  boil  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  loaf  sugar  in  three  pints  of  water, 
and  skim  it ;  add  the  two  liquors  to 
the  juice  of  six  China  oranges,  and 
twelve  lemons  ;  stir  the  whole  well, 
and  run  it  through  a  jelly-bag  till 
clear  ;  then  add  a  little  orange  water 
if  you  like  the  flavour,  and,  if  wanted, 
more  sugar.  It  will  keep  well  if 
corked. 

Lemon  "Whey. 

Boil  as  much  milk  as  you  require ; 
squeeze  a  lemon,  add  as  much  of  the 
juice  to  the  milk  as  will  make  it  quite 
clear.  Mix  with  hot  water  and 
sweeten  to  taste. 

Lemon  Powder. 

Half  an  ounce  of  tartaric  acid ; 
three  ounces  of  loaf  sugar ;  essence 
of  lemon,  half  a  drachm. 

Powder  both  the  sugar  and  the 
tartaric  acid  ;  mix  them,  and  pour 
the  lemon  essence  on  them,  two  or 
three  drops  at  a  time.  When  it  is 
mixed,  dry  the  powder  by  keeping 
it  a  little  while  in  the  air,  and  then 


Lemonade. — Ale  Cup. — Badminton  Cup. 


239 


divide  it  into  twelve  equal  parts,  and 
put  each  powder  in  white  paper,  if 
you  like,  but  it  is  best  to  bottle  the 
powder  and  keep  it  corked.  One- 
twelfth  part  dissolved  in  a  tumbler 
of  water  will  make  good  lemonade. 

Soyer's  Lemonade. 

Three  lemons  ;  half  a  pound  of 
sugar  ;  one  gallon  of  water. 

Cut  the  lemons  in  very  thin  slices ; 
take  out  the  pips  ;  put  them  in  a 
bowl ;  add  the  sugar ;  bruise  well 
together  ;  add  a  gallon  of  water  ;  stir 
well.     It  is  then  ready  to  use. 

Half  the  quantities  will  suffice  in 
some  instances. 

Citric  Acid  Lemonade. 

One  ounce  of  citric  acid  ;  twenty- 
two  drops  of  essence  of  lemon  ;  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar  ; 
three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  water. 

Boil  the  sugar  in  the  water  for  a 
few  minutes  ;  skim  it  ;  when  half 
cold  mix  the  other  ingredients  with 
it.  Stir  well  together,  and  bottle  for 
use.  Two  tablespoonfuls  with  a 
tumbler  of  water  makes  a  refreshing 
drink. 

Milk  Lemonade. 

Two  lemons  ;  two  pounds  of  loaf 
sugar,  powdered  ;  one  quart  of  white 
wine ;  three  quarts  of  quite  fresh 
boiling  milk. 

Wash  the  lemons,  then  peel  them 
very  thinly  ;  squeeze  the  juice  over 
the  peel,  and  let  it  stand  all  night. 
In  the  morning  add  to  it  the  sugar, 
powdered,  the  wine,  and  the  milk 
boiling  hot ;  strain  it  once  or  twice 
through  a  jelly-bag  till  it  is  clear. 
A  delicious  beverage. 

Lemon  Water, 

One  lemon ;  one  pint  of  water ; 
sugar  to  taste. 

Cut  a  small  fresh  lemon  in  thin 
slices;  put  them  in  a  jug ;  pour  over 


them  a  pint  of  boiling  water  ;  cover 
it  and  let  it  stand  till  cold  ;  sweeten 
to  taste. 

Cider  Cup. 

One  gill  of  sherry ;  a  bottle  of  cider ; 
two  ounces  of  sugar  ;  one  glass  of 
brandy  ;  a  sprig  of  borage  ;  a  large 
lump  of  ice  ;  one  slice  of  lemon. 

Put  into  a  glass  jug  or  tankard  the 
sherry,  the  brandy,  lemon,  and  sugar ; 
add  a  large  lump  of  ice  ;  pour  in  the 
cider,  and  lay  a  sprig  of  borage  at 
the  top. 

Cool  Cider  Cup. 

Take  one  bottle  of  cider,  half  a 
pint  of  good  brandy  or  whisky,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  finely-pounded 
loaf  sugar,  and  a  large  tumblerful  of 
pounded  ice.  Mix  and  serve  it  in 
glasses.  This  will  be  found  a  cool 
and  delicious  summer  drink,  and 
suitable  at  any  time.  It  will  be 
much  approved  if  a  pint  of  good 
old  sherry  be  substituted  for  the 
brandy  or  whisky,  and  a  bottle  of 
soda  water  or  lemonade  be  added, 
with  some  grated  nutmeg  ;  or  if  half 
the  quantity  of  brandy  with  half  a 
pint  of  sherry  be  used. 

Ale  Cup. 

One  bottle  of  soda  water  ;  one 
piece  of  toasted  bread  ;  a  little  gin- 
ger and  nutmeg ;  one  wineglass  of 
brandy  ;  a  lump  of  ice  ;  one  quart 
of  pale  ale. 

Make  a  nice  toast,  grate  on  it 
some  ginger  and  nutmeg  ;  put  it  at ' 
the  bottom  of  a  jug  ;  pour  over  it 
the  brandy  and  pale  ale  ;  pour  in  the 
soda  water ;  add  the  ice. 

Badminton  Cup. 

Half  a  cucumber ;  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar ;  one  bottle  of  claret ; 
one  bottle  of  soda  water  ;  a  lump  of 
ice. 

Mix  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  in 
the  claret ;  add  the  soda  water  and 
ice. 


240      Rose  Brandy. — Pineapple  Syrup. — Strawberry  Sherbet. 


Orange  Water. 

Four  oranges  ;  boiling  water. 

Peel  four  oranges ;  pound  the  peel 
in  a  mortar  ;  pour  boiling  water  over 
it,  and  cover  it  close.  When  cold, 
bottle  for  use. 

Rose  Brandy. 

Put  freshly  gathered  rose-leaves 
into  a  bottle,  cover  them  with  brandy, 
and  let  them  infuse.  Bottle  and 
keep.  A  dessertspoonful  in  a  bottle 
of  boda  water  to  drink. 

Cranberry  Water. 

Put  a  teacupful  of  cranberries  into 
a  cup  of  water,  and  mash  them.  In 
the  meantime  boil  two  quarts  of 
water  with  one  large  spoonful  of  oat- 
meal, and  a  slice  of  lemon  peel ;  then 
add  the  cranberries,  and  as  much  fine 
Lisbon  sugar  as  will  bring  out  the 
flavour  of  the  fruit,  and  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  sherry  ;  boil  the 
whole  for  half  an  hour,  and  strain 
it. 

Lemon  Tea. 

Put  two  slices  of  lemon  thinly 
pared  into  a  teapot,  a  little  of  the 
peel,  and  a  little  sugar,  or  a  large 
spoonful  of  capillaire  ;  pour  in  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  and  stop  it 
closely  for  two  hours. 

To  make  Simple  Sugar  Syrup. 

Proportions  :  one  pound  of  sugar 
to  half  a  pint  of  water. 

Put  half  a  pint  of  water  to  each 
pound  of  sugar  ;  when  it  is  all  dis- 
solved set  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  let  it 
boil  for  half  an  hour,  skimming  it ; 
when  it  is  clear  and  boiling  hot, 
spread  a  wetted  napkin  over  a  basin, 
pour  the  syrup  in,  and  strain  it 
through  ;  flavour  to  taste. 

Pineapple  Syrup. 

_  Take  the  rough  coat  from  a  ripe 
pine-apple,  cut  it  small,  and  pound  it 


fine  ;  put  a  teacup  of  water  to  it,  and 
squeeze  the  juice  from  it  through 
a  cloth  ;  put  this  to  enough  simple 
syrup  to  flavour  it ;  boil  it  over  a 
gentle  fire  for  a  short  time  ;  when 
cold  bottle  it.  Mix  it  with  water  to 
your  taste  ;  set  it  on  ice ;  serve  in 
small  tumblers. 

Lemon  Syrup. 

Make  a  simple  sugar  syrup,  add 
extract  of  lemon. 

Vanilla  Syrup. 

Flavour  simple  sugar  syrup  with 
extract  of  vanilla. 

Strawberry  Syrup. 

One  pint  of  juice  to  one  pint  of 
syrup.  For  syrup  :  one  pint  of  water 
to  one  pound  of  sugar. 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling,  in  the 
proportion  of  one  pound  of  sugar  in 
a  pint  of  water,  skimming  it  till 
quite  clear.  Crush  some  fine  straw- 
berries in  a  sieve  and  press  out  all 
their  juice.  To  every  pint  of  juice 
put  one  pint  of  syrup.  Boil  together 
gently  for  an  hour ;  then  let  it  be- 
come cold,  and  bottle  it.  Cork  and 
seal  it.  When  used,  reduce  it  to 
taste  by  adding  iced  water  to  it,  or 
set  it  on  ice  and  add  water. 

Strawberry  Sberbet. 

Fourteen  ounces  of  picked  straw- 
berries ;  one  quart  of  water ;  one 
lemon  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  orange- 
flower  water ;  eighteen  ounces  of 
sugar. 

Crush  the  strawberries  in  a  mortar ; 
then  add  to  them  a  quart  of  water. 
Pour  this  into  a  basin  with  a  lemon 
sliced  and  a  teaspoonful  of  orange- 
water  ;  let  it  remain  for  two  or  three 
hours.  Put  eighteen  ounces  of  pow- 
dered white  sugar  into  another  basin ; 
cover  it  with  a  cloth,  through  which 
pour  the  strawberry  juice  ;  after  as 
much  has  run  through  as  can,  gather 


Strawberry  Vinegar. — Blackberry  Syrup,  etc. 


241 


up  the  cloth  and  squeeze  out  as 
much  more  as  possible.  When  the 
sugar  is  all  dissolved,  strain  it  again  ; 
set  the  bowl  or  jug  containing  it  on 
ice;  until  ready  to  serve. 

Strawberry  Vinegar. 

Take  the  stalks  from  the  fruit, 
which  should  be  a  highly-flavoured 
sort,  quite  ripe,  and  gathered  in  dry 
weather  ;  weigh,  and  put  them  into 
large  wide-necked  bottles,  and  to 
each  pound  pour  about  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  fine,  pale,  white  wine  vine- 
gar. Tie  a  thick  paper  over  them, 
and  let  the  strawberries  remain  from 
three  to  four  days  ;  then  pour  off  the 
vinegar,  and  empty  them  into  a  jelly- 
bag,  or  suspend  them  in  a  cloth,  that 
all  the  liquid  may  drop  from  them 
without  pressure  :  take  an  equal 
weight  of  fresh  fruit,  pour  the  vine- 
gar upon  it,  and  three  days  afterwards 
repeat  the  same  process,  diminishing 
a  little  the  proportion  of  strawberries, 
of  which  the  flavour  ought  ultimately 
to  overpower  the  vinegar.  In  three 
days  drain  off  the  liquid,  and,  after 
having  strained  it  through  a  flannel 
bag,  weigh  it,  and  mix  it  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  highly  refined 
sugar,  roughly  powdered  ;  when  this 
is  nearly  dissolved,  stir  the  syrup 
over  a  very  clear  fire  until  it  has 
boiled  five  minutes,  and  skim  it 
thoroughly  ;  pour  it  into  a  delicately 
clean  pitcher ;  throw  a  folded  cloth 
over,  and  let  it  remain  until  the  mor- 
row ;  then  put  it  into  pint  or  half 
pint  bottles,  and  cork  them  tightly 
with  new  corks,  not  pressed  in  too 
tightly  at  first,  as  the  bottles  would 
be  liable  to  burst.  In  four  or  five 
days  they  may  be  closely  corked,  and 
stored  in  a  dry  and  cool  place. 

A  dessertspoonful  to  a  tumbler  of 
water  for  drinking. 

Strawberry  Acid. 

Three  pounds  of  strawberries  ; 
one   and  a  half  ounces  of  tartaric 


acid  to  one  pint  of  water;  lump 
sugar. 

Put  the  water  and  the  tartaric  acid 
into  a  deep  pan,  let  the  acid  dissolve, 
add  the  fruit.  It  must  stand  covered 
over  for  twenty-four  hours ;  then 
strain  it  off,  and  to  every  pint  add 
one  and  a  half  pounds  of  loaf  sugar, 
stir  it  well,  and  when  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  bottle  it,  and  seal  it  up. 
This  quantity  makes  three  bottles. 

Add  a  dessertspoonful  to  a  tum- 
bler of  water  for  drinking. 

Elackberry  Syrup. 

Make  a  simple  syrup  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  water,  boil 
it  until  it  is  rich  and  thick,  then  add 
to  it  as  many  pints  of  the  expressed 
juice  of  ripe  blackberries  as  there 
are  pounds  of  sugar ;  put  half  a 
nutmeg  grated  to  each  quart  of  the 
syrup  ;  let  it  boil  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  then  add  to  it  half  a  gill  of 
fourth-proof  brandy  for  each  quart 
of  syrup,  set  it  to  become  cold,  then 
bottle  it  for  use. 

A  tablespoon  for  a  child,  or  a 
wineglass  for  an  adult,  is  a  dose  for 
sore  throat. 

Mulberry  Syrup. 

Put  some  mulberries  into  a  jug, 
tie  a  paper  over  it,  and  then  put  it 
up  to  the  neck  in  a  kettle  of  water, 
let  it  boil ;  as  the  liquor  rises  from 
the  mulberries,  drain  it  off ;  to  each 
pint  of  it  put  one  pound  of  white 
sugar,  or  brown  sugar  clarified  ;  set 
it  over  a  slow  fire,  and  boil  until 
about  the  consistence  of  molasses, 
then  skim  it,  and  take  it  off;  when 
cold  bottle  it. 

Orange  Sherbet. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  oranges, 
pour  boiling  water  on  the  peel,  and 
cover  it  closely  ;  boil  water  and  sugar 
(a  pint  to  a  pound)  to  a  syrup,  skim 
it  clear ;  when  all  is  cold,  mix  the 


R 


242 


Imperial— Nectar. —Orgeat,  etc. 


syrup  and  juice,  with  as  much 
water  as  may  be  necessary  for 
a  rich  taste  ;  strain  it,  and  set  a 
vessel  containing  it  on  ice ;  or  it 
may  be  made  the  same  as  lemonade, 
using  one  lemon  with  half  a  dozen 
oranges. 

Imperial. 

Put  two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar 
and  the  juice  and  parings  of  two 
lemons  into  a  stewpan,  pour  on  them 
seven  quarts  of  boiling  water,  stir 
and  cover  close  ;  when  cold  sweeten 
with  loaf  sugar,  and  straining  it, 
bottle  and  cork  it  tight.  This  is  a 
verypleasant  liqueur,  and  very  whole- 
some. 

Imperial. 

Two  gallons  of  water,  four  lemons, 
two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce  and 
a  half  of  cream  of  tartar.  These 
proportions  mixed  are  excellent. 

Imperial. 

Four  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar, 
four  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  juice  and 
peel  of  four  lemons  ;  boiling  water 
fourteen  quarts  ;  when  cold  bottle 
and  cork. 

Nectar. 

Haifa  pint  of  spring  water  ;  thirty- 
five  grains  of  carbonate  of  soda  ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  tincture  of  orange 
peel  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  capillaire, 
to  be  well  mixed,  and  then  add 
thirty-five  grains  of  tartaric  acid. 

Orgeat. 

Haifa  pound  of  shelled  almonds  ; 
half  a  gallon  of  water ;  twenty-two 
drops  of  lemon  essence  ;  two  pounds 
of  sugar  ;  ice.  Put  the  almonds  into 
hot  water  and  rub  off  their  skins. 
Pound  them  in  a  mortar  to  a  fine 
paste,  adding  a  little  water  occasion- 
ally to  keep  them  from  oiling. 

Take  half  a  gallon  of  clear  and 
good  spring  water  ;  acid  to  it  enough 


lemon  essence  to  flavour  it  well ; 
add  it  to  the  paste  with  two  pounds 
of  powdered  loaf  sugar.  Beat  it  well 
together ;  then  strain  it  through  a 
jelly-bag  two  or  three  times,  stirring 
it  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Pour  it 
into  a  claret  jug,  lay  a  bay  leaf  on 
the  top,  add  ice  when  required  to 
drink. 

Orgeat. 

.  Boil  a  quart  of  new  milk  with  a 
stick  of  cinnamon  ;  sweeten  to  your 
taste,  and  let  it  grow  cold  ;  then  pour 
it  by  degrees  to  three  ounces  of 
almonds,  and  twenty  bitter  almonds 
that  have  been  blanched  and  beaten 
to  a  paste,  with  a  little  water  to  pre- 
vent oiling ;  boil  all  together,  and 
stir  till  cold,  then  add  half  a  glass  of 
brandy. 

Orgeat. 

Blanch  and  pound  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and 
thirty  bitter,  with  a  spoonful  of  water ; 
stir  in  by  degrees  two  pints  of  water, 
and  three  of  milk,  and  strain  the 
whole  through  a  cloth.  Dissolve 
half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  in  a  pint 
of  water ;  boil  and  skim  it  well ; 
mix  it  with  the  other,  as  likewise 
two  spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water, 
and  a  teacupful  of  the  best  brandy. 

Instantaneous  Ginger  Beer. 

Take  about  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
water,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice 
— sweeten  it  to  the  taste  with  syrup 
or  white  sugar.  Have  ready  an 
ordinary  glass  bottle,  a  cork  to  fit  the 
bottle,  a  string  to  tie  it  down,  and  a 
mallet  to  drive  down  the  cork.  Put 
into  the  bottle  a  heaped  teaspoonful 
of  the  supercarbonate  of  soda,  pour 
in  the  liquor,  cork  immediately,  tie 
it  down,  then  shake  the  whole  up 
well,  cut  the  string,  and  the  cork 
will  fly  out.  Turn  it  out  and  drink 
immediately. 


Ginger ette. — Herb  Tea. — Tamarind  Water,  etc. 


243 


Gingerette. 
Pour  one  quart  of  good  gin  over 
two  pounds  of  washed  currants;  add 
the  peel  of  two  lemons  cut  very  thin, 
and  let  it  stand  three  days.  Then 
strain  it,  and  add  one  ounce  of  the 
finest  ginger  bruised,  and  one  pound 
of  loaf  sugar  to  each  pint.  Let  it 
stand  a  few  days,  stirring  it  once  a 
day. 
it  for  use. 


Then  strain  it  again  and  bottle 


China  Orange  Juice. 
Squeeze  from  the  finest  fruit  a  pint 
of  juice  ;  strain  it  through  fine  mus- 
lin, and  gently  simmer  it  with  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  double-refined 
sugar  for  twenty  minutes ;  when 
cold  put  it  in  small  bottles,  and  mix 
it  with  water  when  used.  This  is  a 
cool  drink  for  fevers. 

Capillaire  Drink. 
Into  a  tumbler  of  fresh  cold  water 
pour  a  tablespoonful    of  capillaire, 
and  the  same  of  good  vinegar. 

Tamarinds,  currants,  fresh  or  in 
jelly,  or  scalded  currants  or  cran- 
lDerries,  make  excellent  drinks,  with 
a  little  sugar,  or  not,  as  may  be 
agreeable. 

Herb  Tea. 

Put  a  little  tea  sage,  two  sprigs  of 
balm,  and  a  little  wood-sorrel  into  a 
jug,  having  first  washed  and  dried 
them  ;  cut  thin  a  small  lemon,  and 
clear  it  from  the  white  ;  slice  it,  and 
put  a  piece  of  the  peel  in  ;  then  pour 
in  three  pints  of  boiling  water ; 
sweeten,  and  cover  closely. 

Barley  and  Capillaire  Drink. 

Wash  an  ounce  of  pearl  barley ; 
change  the  water  twice  ;  then  put  to 
it  three  pints  of  water,  an  ounce  of 
sweet  almonds  beaten  fine,  and  a 
piece  of  lemon  peel;  boil  till  you 
have  a  smooth  liquor ;  then  put  syrup 
of  lemons,  and  capillaire. 


Tamarind  Water. 

Boil  thr?e  pints  of  water  with  an 
ounce  of  tamarinds  ;  three  ounces  of 
currants,  and  two  ounces  of  stoned 
raisins,  till  nearly  a  third  is  consumed; 
strain  it  on  a  piece  of  lemon  peel, 
which  remove  in  an  hour,  as  it  gives 
a  bitter  taste  if  left  too  long. 

Kaspberry  Acid. 

Three  pounds  of  raspberries  ;  one 
ounce  and  a  half  of  tartaric  acid  to 
a  pint  of  water. 

Put  the  water  and  fruit  into  a  deep 
pan  with  the  tartaric  acid  dissolved 
in  it ;  let  it  stand  for  twenty-four 
hours  covered  over ;  then  strain  off 
the  juice,  and  to  every  pint  of  it  add 
one  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar  ; 
stir  it  well,  and  when  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  bottle  and  seal  it  up. 
This  quantity  will  make  three  bottles 
full.  A  desertspoonful  to  a  tumbler 
of  water. 

Raspberry  Syrup. 
Time,  one  hour. 

To  one  pint  of  juice,  one  pint  of 
syrup. 

Take  some  fine  red  raspberries  ; 
crush  them  in  a  sieve,  and  press  the 
juice  from  them.  To  each  pint  of 
it  add  a  pint  of  simple  syrup  (that 
is,  sugar  boiled  in  water — one  pint 
of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar,  well- 
boiled  and  skimmed).  When  the 
syrup  and  juice  are  mixed,  boil  them 
gently  for  one  hour,  then  let  it  be- 
come cold  ;  bottle,  cork,  and  seal  it. 
When  used  reduce  it  to  taste  with 
water,  and  set  the  jug  in  ice. 

Kaspberry  Sherbet. 

Fourteen  ounces  of  picked  rasp« 
berries  ;  one  lemon ;  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  brandy  ;  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  orange-flower  water  ;  one  quart, 
of  water  ice ;  eighteen  ounces  of 
sugar. 

Crush  the  raspberries  in  a  mortar, 


r  2 


2  44      Raspberry  Vinegar. — Syllabubs. — Bishop. — Spruce  Beer. 


add  to  them  a  quart  of  water,  with 
the  lemon  sliced,  and  the  orange- 
flower  water ;  let  it  stand  two  or 
three  hours  ;  put  eighteen  ounces  of 
sugar  into  another  basin  ;  cover  it 
with  a  clean  cloth,  and  pour  the  juice 
through  it ;  when  it  will  run  no 
longer  lift  up  the  cloth  by  the  corners 
and  squeeze  it  with  a  spoon.  When 
the  sugar  is  all  dissolved  strain  again, 
and  add  the  brandy  and  a  lump  of 
ice.     Set  it  in  ice  till  required. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. 

Put  a  pound  of  sifted  loaf  sugar 
to  a  pint  of  raspberry  juice  ;  mix  it 
well  together,  and  then  strain  it ;  to 
every  pint  of  syrup  put  three  half 
pints  of  white  wine  vinegar ;  fine 
fruit  is  preferred,  as  the  syrup  must 
be  as  thick  as  cream.  Let  it  stand 
one  day,  then  put  it  into  bottles. 

Easpberry  Vinegar  and  Drink. 

Pour  one  gallon  of  brown  vinegar 
on  two  gallons  of  raspberries  ;  let 
it  stand  forty-eight  hours,  and  then 
strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag  with- 
out pressure. 

Raspberry  Drink. 

To  one  pint  of  the  above  add  two 
pounds  of  lump  sugar  ;  when  quite 
dissolved,  to  be  mixed  with  cold 
water  as  a  beverage. 

The  vinegar  will  keep  for  years. 

Raspberry  Beer. 

Half  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar  ; 
one  pound  of  loaf  sugar;  one  gallon  of 
boiling  water  ;  mix  and  stir  well  ; 
when  nearly  cold  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  yeast ;  let  it  ferment  in  a  pan,  and 
then  add  a  glass  of  raspberry  vine- 
gar. Bottle  it  and  tie  down,  it  will 
be  fit  for  use  in  a  few  days. 

Syllabub. 

One  bottle  of  white  wine,  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sugar,  two  quarts  of 
milk. 


Pour  the  wine  into  a  bowl,  add 
the  sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg  ;  milk 
on  it  from  the  cow  two  quarts  of 
milk.     Well  froth  the  milk. 

Devonshire  Syllabub. 

One  bottle  of  sherry,  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  two  quarts  of 
milk,  half  a  pint  of  clotted  cream — 
cinnamon. 

Pour  the  wine  into  a  bowl,  add 
sugar,  and  flavour  with  cinnamon. 
Milk  the  cow  on  the  wine  till  the 
bowl  is  full ;  well  froth  the  milk,  then 
lay  at  the  top  the  clotted  cream. 

Syllabub. 

Take  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon  and 
the  yellow  rind  pared  thin,  a  glass 
of  brandy,  two  glasses  of  white  wine 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered 
sugar.  Put  these  ingredients  into  a 
pan,  and  let  them  remain  one  night, 
the  next  day  add  a  pint  of  thick 
cream  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  together,  beat  them  altogether 
to  a  fine  froth ;  serve  it  in  jelly- 
glasses. 

Bishop. 

Roast  a  lemon,  and  stick  it  full  of 
cloves  ;  meantime,  boil  in  a  pint  of 
water  equal  quantities  of  spice  to 
suit  the  palate,  such  as  mace,  cin- 
namon, cloves,  etc.  Put  the  lemon 
into  a  bowl,  and  pour  over  it  the 
extract  from  the  spices.  Now  add  a 
bottle  of  port,  made  nearly  boiling, 
and  sweeten  the  whole  with  loaf 
sugar.  Bishop  may  also  be  made 
with  claret,  or  equal  parts  of  port 
and  claret. 

Spruce  Beer. 

To  make  White  Spruce  Beer. — 
To  ten  gallons  of  water  put  six 
pounds  of  sugar  and  four  ounces  of 
essence  of  spruce ;  then  add  yeast, 
and  work  it  as  in  making  ginger- 
beer.  Bottle  immediately  in  half- 
pint  bottles. 


Brown  Spruce  Beer. — Punch. — Milk  Punch. 


245 


Brown  Spruce  Beer. — This  beer 
is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
preceding,  only  treacle  is  substituted 
for  the  sugar.  It  is  an  exceedingly 
wholesome  summer  drink,  especially 
for  persons  afflicted  with  pains  of 
the  kidneys. 

Punch. 

One  of  sour,  two  of  sweet,  four  of 
strong,  eight  of  weak,  is  the  formula 
for  making  excellent  punch. 

An  Excellent  Method  of  Making 
Punch. 

Take  two  large  lemons,  with 
rough  skins,  and  some  lumps  of 
sugar.  Rub  the  sugar  over  the  lemons 
till  it  has  absorbed  all  the  yellow 
part  of  the  skins  ;  then  put  into  the 
bowl  these  lumps,  and  as  much  more 
as  the  juice  of  the  lemons  may  re- 
quire, for  no  certain  weight  can  be 
mentioned;  then  squeeze  the  lemon- 
juice  upon  the  sugar,  and  with  a 
bruiser  press  the  sugar  and  the  juice 
well  together,  for  the  richness  and 
fine  flavour  of  the  punch  de- 
pends on  the  rubbing  and  mixing 
process  being  thoroughly  performed. 
Then  mix  this  up  very  well  with 
boiling  water  (soft  water  is  best),  till 
the  whole  is  rather  cool.  When  this 
mixture  is  to  your  taste,  take  brandy 
and  rum  in  equal  quantities,  and  put 
them  to  it,  mixing  the  whole  altoge- 
ther again.  The  quantity  of  liquor 
must  be  according  to  your  taste  ;  two 
good  lemons  are  generally  enough 
to  make  four  quarts  of  punch,  in- 
cluding a  quart  of  liquor,  with  half  a 
pound  of  sugar  ;  but  this  depends 
on  taste,  and  on  the  strength  of  the 
spirit.  As  the  pulp  is  disagreeable 
to  some  people,  the  sherbet  may  be 
strained  before  the  liquor  is  put  in. 
Some  strain  the  lemon  before  they 
put  it  to  the  sugar,  which  is  im- 
proper ;  as,  when  the  pulp  and  sugar 


are  well  mixed  together  it  adds  to 
the  richness  of  the  punch. 

When  only  rum  is  used,  about 
half  a  pint  of  porter  will  soften  the 
punch  ;  and  when  both  rum  and 
brandy  are  used,  the  porter  gives  a 
richness  and,  to  some,  a  very  plea- 
sant flavour. 

Whisky  Punch. 

Pour  half  a  pint  of  the  spirit  on  the 
peel  of  a  lemon,  taken  off  very  thin, 
and  the  lemon  cut  into  very  thin 
slices  after  the  whole  of  the  white 
part  has  been  carefully  taken  off.  Let 
it  stand  one  hour,  then  add  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  sugar,  with  a  glass 
of  Curacoa,  about  a  pint  of  water,  and 
two  bottles  of  iced  soda-water. 

George  the  Fourth  Milk  Punch. 

Time,  eighteen  hours. 

Take  two  quarts  of  rum,  put  the 
peel  of  twelve  lemons  and  two 
Seville  oranges  into  it,  and  let  it 
stand  twelve  hours,  then  add  two 
quarts  of  cold  spring  water,  one 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  one  pint  of 
lemon-juice,  one  nutmeg,  one  pint  of 
strong  green  tea,  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
maraschino,  one  pint  of  Madeira  ; 
mix  together,  and  stir  in  a  pint  of 
new  milk  boiling  hot;  let  it  stand 
six  hours  till  quite  clear  ;  then  bottle 
it  for  use. 

Milk  Punch. 

Infuse  the  peel  of  twelve  lemons, 
cut  very  thin,  in  one  quart  of  the 
best  brandy,  for  forty-eight  hours ; 
dissolve  two  pounds  of  treble  refined 
sugar  in  seven  pints  of  cold  water  ; 
put  to  it  the  brandy  that  the  peel 
has  been  infused  in,  with  two 
quarts  more  brandy  and  one  of  rum, 
with  the  juice  of  the  twelve  lemons 
and  one  grated  nutmeg;  then  take 
three  pints  of  milk  scalding  hot,  and 
throw  it  in ;  let  it  stand  altogether 


246        Cool  Tankard— Brandy  Bitters. — Ginger  Cordial. 


twelve  hours,  and  then  run  it  through 
a  jelly-bag  till  it  is  clear. 

Milk  Punch. 

The  rinds  of  six  lemons  to  stand 
in  a  bottle  of  rum  three  days  (or 
more).  Then  add  one  quart  of  lemon- 
juice,  three  quarts  of  water  and  live 
of  spirits,  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar 
and  two  grated  nutmegs  ;  mix  them 
all  well  together,  and  add  two  quarts 
of  boiling  milk  :  let  all  stand  four  or 
five  hours,  then  fine  it  through  a 
flannel  bag,  and  bottle  it  off. 

The  bottle  must  be  filled  with 
lemon-peel,  cut  very  thin,  before  you 
put  the  spirit  in. 

Cold  Punch. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar 
in  lumps,  rub  each  lump  over  a  lemon 
to  draw  out  the  essence  of  the  peel  ; 
squeeze  the  lemon-juice  over  the 
sugar,  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  rum 
or  whisky ;  let  it  stand  twenty  mi- 
nutes, and  add  three  pints  of  cold 
water  and  a  large  lump  of  ice. 

Cool  Tankard. 

One  quart  of  ale,  one  glass  of 
sherry,  one  of  brandy,  one  of  capil- 
laire,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  four  ounces 
of  cream  of  tartar.  Mix  and  strain 
half  an  ounce  of  sugarcandy,  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  a  few 
lemon  and  orange  chips.  Pour  upon 
them  one  quart  of  boiling  water. 
When  cold  strain  it  off. 

Drink  for  a  Sick  Room. 

Put  a  teacupful  of  cranberries  into 
a  cup  of  water,  and  soak  them.  In 
the  mean  time  boil  two  quarts  of 
water  with  a  large  spoonful  of  oat- 
meal and  a  piece  of  lemon  peel ;  then 
add  the  cranberries  and  as  much 
loaf  sugar  as  will  leave  a  slight 
acid  flavour  of  the  fruit,  and  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  sherry  (or  less).    Boil 


all  for  half  an  hour,   and  strain  it 
off. 

Brandy  Bitters. 

Steep  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
dried  orange  and  lemon  peel,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  fresh  peel,  in  one 
pint  of  good  brandy  for  ten  days, 
frequently  shaking  it  ;  then  press 
out  the  liquor  and  filter  through 
blotting  paper  ;  lastly,  dissolve  two 
ounces  of  loaf  sugar  therein.  This  is 
a  very  pleasant  bitter,  either  taken 
alone  or  mixed  with  other  liquor. 

Ginger  Cordial. 

To  each  pint  of  strained  white 
currant  juice  add  one  quart  of  best 
Scotch  whisky,  half  an  ounce  of 
ginger  bruised,  one  pound  of  best  loaf 
sugar  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon.  Put 
it  into  a  jar,  tie  it  down  very  closely, 
and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours. 
Then  strain  it  through  a  jelly-bag,  or 
filter  through  paper,  the  latter  is  best. 
Bottle  and  cork  it  well.  In  two  years 
it  will  be  in  perfection. 

Imperial  Water. 

Put  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cream 
of  tartar  and  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  cut 
very  thin,  into  a  jug,  pour  upon  them 
a  quart  of  boiling  water,  sweeten  it 
with  loaf  sugar,  stir  it  with  a  silver 
spoon,  let  it  stand  about  ten  minutes, 
then  strain  it  through  fine  muslin, 
and  put  it  into  a  decanter  for  use. 

Cold  Caudle. 

Boil  a  quart  of  spring  water ;  when 
cold  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  the  juice 
of  a  small  lemon,  six  spoonfuls  of 
sweet  wine,  sugar  to  your  taste,  and 
syrup  of  lemons  one  ounce. 

To  Mull  Wine. 

Boil  some  spice  in  a  little  water 
till  the  flavour  is  gained,  then  add 
an  equal  quantity   of   port,    some 


Mulled  Wine.  — Noyau. — Shrub, 


24; 


sugar  and  nutmeg ;  boil  together  and  '  mixed  with  a  §;a5S  of  ™e>  wp  afer^ 
serve  with  toast.  i  **°  verv  wholesome  draughts,  and 

,  prove  lighter  than  when  taken  to- 
Mulled  Wine.  gether. 

Boil  a  piece  of  cinnamon  and  some  i  °^a  "" 

grated  nutmeg  a  few  minutes  in  a  \     Take  a  gallon    of  pale-coloured 
large  cupful  of  water  ;  then  pour  to  :  rum  and  half  a  gallon  of  whisk 
it  a  pint  of  port  wine,  and  add  loaf  gin.1,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sweet 
sugar  to  your  taste.     Beat  it  up,  and   almonds,  and  half  a  pound  of  bitter, 
it  will  be'readv.  blanch  them,  and  put  them  into  the 

•  spirit.     Take  nine  pounds  of  single 
refined  sugar,  make  it  into  a  syrup, 


Lemonade  Shrub. 

The  juice  of  eight  lemons  ;  bar- 
berry juice,  three  ounces  ;  loaf  sugar, 
four  ounces  ;  white  wine,  half  a  pint ; 
and  the  rinds  of  four  of  the  lemons 
rubbed  off  on  the  sugar.  Mix  the 
whole  together,  and  pass  it  through 
a  filtering  bag.  Bottle,  and  use  for 
making  lemonade  or  sherbet. 

Shrub,  as  made  in  the  West  Indies. 


with  four  and  a  half  English  pints  of 
water,  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs. 
P-our  it  boiling  hot  into  the  sj 
Let  it  stand  for  three  weeks,  shaking 
it  very  often  ;  then  strain  it  through  a 
jelly-Dag,  let  it  stand  a  mo:v 
clear,  filter  the  grounds  through 
j  blotting  paper  doubled. 

If  you  wish  to  have  it   coloured, 
I  put  in  one  shilling  5  worth  of  cochi- 
One  quart  of  rum,  half  a  pint  of nezl  pounded    when  the  ingredients 
lime  juice,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  are  cold  and  before  it  is  strained. 


sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the 
lime  juice,  and  then  mix  it  well  with 
the  rum.  Put  it  into  a  jar  to  settle 
and  become  mellow.  This  is  excel- 
lent for  making  punch. 

Claret  Cup  Essence. 

Cut  the  peel  from    six  lemons, 
very  thin,  and  put  it  into  a  large  | 
covered  jug;  add  six  leaves  of  borage, 
half  a  pound  of  sugarcandy,  half  a 


Noyau  of  Beech  Leaves. 

Two     handfuls     of    beech-'. 
steeped  six  days  in  a  quart  of  British 
gin.  two  pounds  of  refined  loaf 
boiled  in  a  pint  of  water,  skimmed, 
and  poured  off  quite  clear.     When 
cold  mix  and  b: . 

Shrub. 
One  pint  of  Seville  orange  juice, 


pint  of  pale  French  brandy,  and  one  '  two   pounds    of  white   sugar,  three 
bottle  of  sherry.     Cover  the  jug,  and  pints  of  rum  or  brandy  ;  when  the 
let  it  stand  three  days  ;  then  strain   sugar  is  dissolved,  strain  through  a 
it  through  ven- fine  muslin,  and  bottle  jelly-bag  and  bottle  it 
it  for  use.     When  required,  add  one  | 
wineglassful  to  a  bottle  of  claret,  and 


a  bottle  of  soda  water. 

Eggs. 
An  egg  broken  into  a  cup  of  tea, 


One  pint  of  red  currant  juice,  one 
quart  of  rum,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar. 

Add  the  currant  juice  and  rum 
or  beaten  and  mixed  with  a  glass  of  I  to  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar 
cold  milk,  makes  a  breakfast  more  1  pounded,  and  when  the  sugar  is  dis- 
supporting  than  tea  solely.  I  solved,  and  all  well  mixed,  strain  it 

An  egg  divided,  and  the  yolk  and  :  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  bottle  it 
white  beaten  separately,  and  each  J  for  use. 


2  48        Curacpa.  — Ratafia.  — Maraschino.  —  Cherry  Brandy . 


Curacoa. 

Put  into  a  bottle,  with  the  neck 
large  enough  to  take  in  an  orange, 
one  quart  of  French  brandy,  one 
Seville  orange,  one  stick  of  vanilla  as 
thick  as  the  little  finger  and  as  long 
as  your  hand,  cork  it  well,  and  cover 
it  over  with  a  cloth ;  stir  it  once  a 
week  for  six  weeks,  then  strain  the 
liquor  from  the  orange  and  vanilla, 
and  bottle  it  for  use. 

Ratafia. 

Two  ounces  of  peach  and  apri- 
cot kernels,  brandy,  half  a  pound  of 
white  sugarcandy,  one  cup  of  cold 
water. 

Blanch  two  ounces  of  peach  and 
apricot  kernels,  bruise,  and  put  them 
into  a  bottle,  and  fill  it  nearly  up 
with  brandy.  Dissolve  half  a  pound 
of  white  sugarcandy  in  a  cup  of  cold 
water,  and  add  it  to  the  brandy. 

Maraschino. 

Maraschino  is  a  liqueur  distilled 
from  cherries,  but  it  can  be  imitated 
either  with  almonds  or  oranges. 

To  a  quart  of  cream  of  the  valley 
add  two  ounces  of  blanched  bitter 
almonds  bruised  to  a  paste  in  a  mor- 
tar ;  add  nearly  half  a  pound  of 
sugar  candy  ;  mix  and  let  it  stand 
for  a  fortnight ;  strain  it.  In  a 
month  from  beginning  to  make,  it  will 
be  fit  for  use. 

Maraschino  of  Oranges, 

Take  one  quart  of  gin,  three  Se- 


ville oranges,  and  a  large  lemon, 
peel  them  very  thin,  and  steep  the 
peel  in  the  gin  with  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  sugar  candy  ;  let  it  stand 
five  days  ;  stir  it  frequently  and  run 
it  through  filtering  paper.  Then 
bottle  for  use. 

Cherry  Brandy. 

Cherries ;  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
white  powdered  sugar,  and  some 
brandy. 

Fill  your  bottles  with  cherries,  the 
quantity  of  sugar  not  to  exceed  four 
tablespoonfuls  to  each  bottle,  throw 
in  at  intervals  the  cherries,  and  fill 
the  bottle  quite  full  of  brandy  ;  cork 
it  tight,  and  put  a  bladder  over  it. 
On  no  account  prick  the  cherries. 

Wine  Flip. 

Separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites 
of  six  new-laid  eggs,  and  whisk  the 
yolks  until  they  become  a  thin  fluid. 
Put  a  quart  of  port  wine  into  a 
saucepan  over  a  clear  fire,  with  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  a  few  cloves,  one 
blade  of  cinnamon,  and  a  few  slices  of 
lemon  peel  cut  very  thin,  add  sugar  to 
your  taste.  Let  it  simmer  for  a  short 
time,  then  pour  it  into  a  bowl  into 
which  you  have  previously  put  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  stirring  it 
quickly  with  a  spoon  as  you  pour  in 
the  wine.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  good 
froth,  and  place  it  over  the  ingredi- 
ents in  the  bowl. 

Serve  for  it  champagne  glasses. 


249 


HOME-MADE    WINES. 


Elder  Wine. 

To  five  gallons  of  ripe  elderberries 
put  ten  gallons  of  water,  boil  them 
with  the  water  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  then  strain  them  through  a 
hair-sieve,  not  pressing  the  berries  ; 
measure  the  liquor  into  the  boiler 
again,  to  every  gallon  add  three 
pounds  and  a  half  of  sugar  with  the 
thin  peels  of  six  lemons  ;  let  it  boil 
twenty  minutes  ;  when  scalding  hot 
beat  up  the  white  of  four  or  five  eggs 
and  put  them  into  it,  stirring  the 
liquor  well  about ;  when  the  liquor  is 
sufficiently  cooled  to  add  the  yeast 
on  the  top  of  a  piece  of  toasted 
bread,  add  the  juice  of  six  lemons  ; 
when  ready  to  be  bunged  up  hang 
a  gauze  bag  filled  with  bruised  gin- 
ger in  the  middle  of  the  cask. 

Ginger  in  proportion  of  half  a 
pound  to  ten  gallons  of  wine. 

Dandelion  Wine,  or  Taraxacum. 

To  one  gallon  of  water  put  three 
quarts  of  dandelion  blossoms,  three 
pounds  of  raw  sugar,  two  sweet 
oranges  and  two  lemons. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  flowers 
the  day  they  are  gathered,  and  let 
them  stand  all  night  in  a  tub,  but  do 
not  cover  them  over.  Strain  the 
liquor  off  next  morning,  and  boil  it 
with  the  sugar  about  half  an  hour. 
Pare  the  oranges  and  lemons  very 
thin,  then  take  off  all  the  white, 
bruise  them  well,  and  put  them  into 
the  liquor  with  the  peels  when  milk 
warm,  with  half  a  teacupful  of  yeast ; 
let  it  stand  a  week  or  ten  days  before 
putting  it  into  the  barrel.  In  three 
months  bottle  it  and  put  two  lumps 
of  loaf  sugar  in  each  bottle. 

Elder  Wine  with  Cider. 
Bake  the  elderberries  in  a  large 
stone  jar  well  stopped  down  ;  to  each 


quart  of  juice  put  three  quarts  of 
cider;  to  every  gallon  put  two  pounds 
of  the  best  Lisbon  sugar,  four  pounds 
of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped  fine, 
two  ounces  of  nutmegs  ground,  two 
ounces  of  cloves,  two  ounces  of  mace, 
and  one  ounce  of  cassia,  all  slightly 
bruised  in  a  mortar,  and  two  ounces 
of  bitter  almonds.  Put  all  into  a 
cask  except  the  liquid  which  you 
must  work  in  a  tub.  Put  a  slice  of 
toasted  bread  and  a  large  spoonful 
of  yeast  on  it,  let  it  work  for  one  day 
and  a  night,  then  take  off  the  scum, 
and  put  it  also  into  the  cask.  When 
it  ceases  to  hiss,  put  in  half  a  pint  of 
brandy  to  every  gallon  of  liquor.  If 
not  made  with  very  good  strong  cider, 
one  pint  of  the  best  brandy  will  not 
be  too  much  for  each  gallon.  Stop 
it  down  close  ;  let  it  remain  in  the 
cask  two  months,  then  bottle  it. 
The  longer  it  is  kept,  the  better  it 
becomes. 

White  Elder  Wine. 

Boil  eighteen  pounds  of  white 
powdered  sugar  with  six  gallons  of 
water,  and  two  whites  of  eggs  well 
beaten  ;  then  skim  it,  and  put  in  a 
quarter  of  a  peck  of  elder-flowers 
from  the  tree  that  bears  white  berries. 
Do  not  keep  them  on  the  fire.  When 
near  cold,  stir  it,  and  put  in  six 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  four  or  five 
of  yeast,  and  beat  well  into  the  liquor, 
stir  it  every  day.  Put  six  pounds  of 
the  best  raisins,  stoned,  intothe  cask, 
and  tun  the  wine ;  stop  it  close, 
and  bottle  in  six  months.  When 
well  kept  this  wine  will  pass  for 
Frontignac. 

Malt  Wine. 

With  every  three  pints  of  water 
boil  three  pounds  of  sugar  as  long  as 
any  scum  rises,  which  must  be  taken 
off,  then  pour  it  into  a  vessel,  and 


2^0 


Parsnip,  Ginger,  and  Raisin  Wines. —  Champagne. 


when  sufficiently  cool,  add  to  each 
three  quarts  of  water  one  quart  of 
the  best  rum,  and  set  it  with  yeast. 

Parsnip  Wine. 

Take  fifteen  pounds  of  sliced  pars- 
nips and  boil  until  soft  in  five  gallons 
of  water  ;  squeeze  the  liquor  well  out 
of  them,  run  it  through  a  sieve,  and 
add  three  pounds  of  coarse  lump 
sugar  to  every  gallon  of  liquor  ;  boil 
the  whole  for  three  quarters  of  an 
hour ;  when  it  is  nearly  cold,  add  a 
little  yeast  on  toast ;  let  it  remain  in 
a  tub  for  ten  days,  stirring  it  from 
the  bottom  every  day ;  then  put  it 
into  a  cask  for  a  year ;  as  it  works 
over,  fill  it  up  each  day. 

Ginger  Wine. 

To  every  gallon  of  water  add  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar  and 
half  an  ounce  of  ginger  finely  bruised ; 
boil  the  whole  together  for  one  hour, 
and  then  pour  it  into  a  tub  to  cool ; 
when  cool,  take  as  many  lemons  as 
you  have  gallons  of  water,  peel  them 
very  thin,  and  add  the  juice  and  the 
peel  to  the  liquor  ;  then  work  it  with 
a  small  quantity  of  good  yeast  spread 
on  a  piece  of  toasted  bread  ;  when  it 
has  fermented  twenty-four  hours  put 
the  whole  together  into  a  cask,  and 
at  the  end  of  six  weeks  bottle  it,  care 
being  taken  not  to  shake  it,  that  it 
may  draw  off  clear.  After  it  has 
been  a  month  in  bottle,  it  will  be  fit 
for  use. 

Excellent  Raisin  Wine. 

To  every  gallon  of  spring  water 
put  eight  pounds  of  fresh  smyrnas 
in'  a  large  tub ;  stir  it  thoroughly 
every  day  for  a  month  ;  then  press 
the  raisins  in  a  horse-hair  bag  as 
dry  as  possible ;  put  the  liquor  into 
a  cask,  and  when  it  has  done  hissing, 
pour  in  a  bottle  of  the  best  brandy  ; 
stop  it  close  for  twelve  months,  then 
rack  it  off;  but  without  the  dregs  ; 
filter  them  through  a  bag  of  flannel 


of  three  or  four  folds  ;  add  the  clear 
to  the  quantity,  and  pour  one  or  two 
quarts  of  brandy,  according  to  the 
size  of  the  vessel ;  stop  it  up,  and  at 
the  end  of  three  years  you  may 
either  bottle  it  or  drink  it  fresh  from 
the  cask. 

Raisin  wine  would  be  extremely 
good  if  made  rich  with  fruit  and  kept 
long,  which  improves  the  flavour 
greatly. 

Very  fine  Black  Currant  Wine. 

To  every  three  quarts  of  juice,  put 
the  same  of  water  unboiled  ;  and  to 
every  three  quarts  of  the  liquor  add 
three  pounds  of  veiy  pure  moist 
sugar  ;  put  it  into  a  cask,  preserving 
a  little  for  filling  up  ;  put  the  cask 
in  a  warm  dry  room,  and  the  liquor 
will  ferment  of  itself.  Skim  off 
the  refuse  when  the  fermentation 
shall  be  over,  and  fill  up  with  the 
reserved  liquor.  When  it  has  ceased 
working,  pour  three  quarts  of  brandy 
to  forty  quarts  of  wine.  Bung  it  close 
for  nine  months,  then  bottle  it  and 
drain  the  thick  part  through  a  jelly- 
bag  until  it  be  clear,  and  bottle  that. 
Keep  it  ten  or  twelve  months. 

Champagne. 
To  every  pound  or  quart  of  grapes 
picked  and  bruised  put  one  quart 
of  water,  let  it  stand  in  a  tub  three 
days,  stirring  it  every  day.  To  every 
gallon  of  juice  when  pressed  out  by 
the  hands  through  a  cloth,  (and  after 
standing  a  little  time,  carefully 
pour  off  the  sediment),  put  three 
pounds  of  good  loaf  sugar.  Barrel 
it,  and  put  the  bung  slightly  over  ; 
when  it  has  done  working,  or  at  the 
end  of  three  weeks,  add  isinglass  in 
the  proportion  of  half  an  ounce  to 
ten  gallons  of  liquor,  dissolving  it 
previously  in  a  small  quantity  of  the 
liquor,  stir  it  for  three  days  once  a 
day,  and  at  the  last  stirring  add  one 
quart  of  white  brandy  to  every  five 
gallons  of  wine.  In  a  few  days  bung 
it  down  close,   and  in  six  months 


Gooseberry,  Orange,  and  Blackberry  Wines. — Mead.         251 


bottle  it.  The  fruit  to  be  picked 
when  full  grown,  and  just  beginning 
to  change  colour.  Bottle  it  in  March. 

Gooseberry  Wine. 

Take  four  pounds  of  gooseberries 
at  the  time  for  bottling;  pick  and 
bruise  them  in  a  mortar ;  put  over 
them  one  gallon  of  water,  and  let  it 
stand  three  days,  stirring  it  three  or 
four  times  a  day,  then  strain  it 
through  a  hair  sieve,  and  to  every 
gallon  of  liquor  put  three  pounds  of 
loaf  sugar,  or  good  fine  moist ;  put 
it  into  a  cask,  placing  the  bung 
lightly  on  until  the  fermentation 
ceases,  then  stop  it  down.  It  will 
be  fit  to  bottle  in  six  months. 

You  may  if  you  please  add  to  every 
four  gallons  of  liquor  one  quart  of 
brandy. 

Gooseberry  Wine. 

To  a  gallon  of  water  (cold  after 
being  boiled)  add  one  gallon  of  full 
grown  gooseberries  well  bruised,  to 
be  stirred  often  for  forty-eight  hours, 
then  strain  off,  and  add  three 
pounds  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar ;  put 
it  into  a  cask  ;  when  the  fermenta- 
tion ceases,  add  a  wine-glass  of 
brandy ;  bung  it  tight,  and  keep  it 
six  months  before  bottling. 

Orange  Wine. 

Four  hundred  and  fifty  Seville 
oranges  ;  peel  of  three  hundred  and 
fifty  ;  boil  fifty-six  gallons  of  water, 
allowing  three  pounds  of  lump  sugar 
to  each  gallon  of  water.  When  it 
boils  pour  it  on  the  peels  of  the 
oranges  ;  beat  up  the  whites  and 
shells  of  twelve  eggs  to  a  froth  ;  put 
it  to  the  liquor  ;  when  it  boils,  skim 
it  till  clear,  then  pour  it  on  your  peels 
and  cover  it ;  let  it  stand  three  or 
four  days,  then  put  it  in  the  tub. 
After  it  has  stood  a  fortnight,  you 
may  add  two  quarts  of  brandy,  and 
stop  it  down. 

If  you  should  not  find  liquor 
enough  off  the  peels  to  fill  the  tub, 


put  hot  water  on  them  sufficient  to 
do  so  ;  do  not  put  the  orange  juice 
till  you  put  it  in  the  tub.  A  little  of 
the  liquor  that  is  boiled  to  be  put 
cold  to  the  juice  for  fear  of  its  turn- 
ing off  the  few  days  it  stands. 

A  Good  Blackberry  Wine. 

To  make  an  excellent  wine,  almost 
equal  to  port,  take  ripe  blackberries, 
press  the  juice  from  them,  let  it  stand 
thirty-six  hours  to  ferment  (lightly 
covered)  and  skim  off  whatever  rises 
to  the  top  ;  then,  to  every  gallon  of 
the  juice,  add  one  quart  of  water  and 
three  pounds  of  sugar  (brown  will 
do) ;  let  it  stand  in  an  open  vessel 
for  twenty-four  hours ;  skim  and 
strain  it,  then  barrel  it.  Let  it  stand 
eight  or  nine  months,  when  it  should 
be  racked  off,  and  bottled  and  corked 
close.    Age  improves  it. 

Mead. 

To  a  gallon  of  water  put  four  pounds 
of  honey;  boil  it  three-quarters  of 
an  hour  ;  skim  it.  Add  one  ounce  of 
hops  ;  boil  it  half  an  hour,  and  let  it 
stand  till  next  day  ;  put  the  quantity 
made  into  your  cask;  to  thirteen 
gallons  of  the  liquor  add  a  quart  of 
brandy.  Lightly  stop  it  till  the  fer- 
mentation is  over,  then  stop^  it  very 
close.  Keep  it  a  year  in  cask. 
Cowslip  Mead. 

Put  thirty  pounds  of  honey  into 
fifteen  gallons  of  water,  and  boil  till 
one  gallon  is  wasted  ;  skim  it,  and 
have  ready  a  dozen  and  a  half  of 
lemons  cut  in  quarters ;  pour  a  gallon 
of  the  liquor  boiling  hot  over  them  ; 
put  the  remainder  into  a  tub  with 
eight  pecks  of  cowslip-pips ;  let  them 
stay  all  night ;  then  put  the  liquor 
and  the  lemons  to  eight  spoonfuls  of 
new  yeast,  and  a  handful  of  sweet- 
brier  ;  stir  altogether  ;  let  it  work 
three  or  four  days  ;  strain  it ;  put 
it  into  the  cask.  Let  it  stand  six 
months.    Then  bottle  it. 


252 

FOREIGN    WINES 

AND   THE 

MANAGEMENT    OF   THE   CELLAR. 


Constituent  Parts  of  the  Wines  ordinarily  drank  in  England! 


Wines. 

Water. 

Alcohol. 

Sugar. 

1 

Tartaric   , 
Acid. 

One  Imperial  Pint  contains 

Port 

Brown  Sherry 

Pale  Sherry 

Claret 

Burgundy 

Hock 

Moselle 

Champagne 

Madeira 

oz. 
16 

*$\ 

16 

18 

i7f 
iH 

17 
16 

oz. 
4 

4 
2 

2i 

2} 
If 

3 
4 

oz.     grs. 
1        2 
0    360 
0      80 
0        0 
0        0 
0        0 

0  0 

1  133 
0    400 

1 

g8o 

90 
I70 
l6l 
l60 
127 
I40 

90 
IOO 

Wines  are  prepared  by  the  dried  fermentation  of  the  sugar  which 
exists  in  the  juices  of  fruits.  The  wines  of  Europe  are  mostly  made 
from  the  juice  of  the  grape,  which  before  fermentation  is  called  "  must." 
Wines  vary  according  to  the  quantities  of  sugar,  alcohol,  and  acid  they 
contain.  When  wines  contain  much  sugar  they  are  called  "  sweet,"  when 
little  "  dry."  The  quantity  of  alcohol  depends  on  the  amount  of  sugar 
changed  during  fermentation.  It  is  frequently  added  to  wines  to  give 
them  strength,  as  in  port,  sherry,  and  Madeira.  Clarets,  hocks,  and  the 
light  wines  of  the  Continent  will  not  bear  the  addition  of  alcohol.  The 
acid  in  wines  made  from  grapes  is  tartaric.  It  forms  an  insoluble  salt  with 
potash,  which  is  the  tartar  of  the  lees  of  wine,  and  thus  wine  is  freed 
from  too  much  acidity.  The  colour  of  red  wines  depends  on  a  very  small 
quantity  of  colouring  matter  contained  in  the  grape.  The  market  value 
of  wines  depends  to  a  great  extent  on  the  development  of  a  variety  of 
chemical  compounds,  which  are  formed  during  their  fermentation  and 
keeping.  These  form  the  "bouquet"  and  peculiar  flavour  of  wines.  Some 
of  these  compounds,  as  cenanthic  ether,  occur  in  all  wines.     Others,  as 


South  Kensington  Museum  Food  Gallery. 


Foreign  Wines.  253 


acetic,  butyric,  caprylic  ethers,  and  oxide  of  amyl,  are  only  found  in  old 
wines  ;  whilst  some  are  peculiar  to  the  wines  of  particular  districts,  as  the 
flavouring  principle  of  the  muscatel  grape.* 

The  vine  is  one  of  the  most  useful  of  vegetable  productions.  In 
Switzerland  the  leaves  are  used  as  a  remedy  for  cuts  and  wounds.  Our 
cooks  use  them  for  covering  the  breast  of  the  grouse  when  roasting. 
They  also  make  a  good  tea,  which  is  said  to  strengthen  the  nerves.  The 
prunings  yield  vinegar.  The  leaves  are  also  good  food  for  cows  and  sheep  ; 
but  are  too  rare  in  England  to  be  thus  used,  and  in  the  vine  countries  they 
are  used  for  manuring  the  vineyard  itself.  Vine  branches  yield  potash 
and  salt  when  burned.  The  Germans  distil  brandy  from  the  skins  or 
"  musk,"  and  extract  an  oil  from  the  seeds. 

For  making  wine  the  grapes  are  gathered  when  fully  ripe.  For  the 
best  wine  the  best  grapes  are  selected  ;  the  stems  are  pressed  with  them, 
as  they  are  thought  to  make  the  wine  keep  better.  For  red  wine  the 
grapes  are  picked  off  the  clusters  by  the  hand.  Formerly,  and  still  in  one 
or  two  of  the  Greek  islands,  at  St.  Lucar,  and  in  some  parts  of  France 
the  grapes  are  trodden  as  in  the  days  of  Isaiah  ;  but  now  in  a  general 
way  mechanical  presses,  or  two  wooden  cylinders  turning  in  opposite 
directions,  press  out  the  juice  of  the  grape. 

_  The  juice  is  then  put  into  vats  and  left  to  ferment.  The  saccharine 
principle  of  the  grape  and  the  tartaric  acid  cause  the  fermentation,  which 
is  rendered  active  by  heat,  and  delayed  by  cold.  In  the  dry  wines  there 
is  a  good  proportion  of  tartaric  acid  ;  in  the  sweet  wines  the  quantity  is 
inferior  to  the  grape-sugar ;  this  difference  causes  the  wine  to  be  either 
"  dry,"  as  it  is  called,  or  "  sweet." 

When  the  wine  is  sufficiently  fermented,  it  is  drawn  off  into  barrels. 
But  as  the  process  of  wine  making,  interesting  as  it  is,  is  of  no  service  to 
the  British  householder,  we  will  not  enter  into  useless  details,  but  proceed 
to  enumerate  the  names  and  properties  of  the  wines  with  which  he  should 
fill  his  cellars.  And  first  we  must  premise  that  first-rate  wine  can  never 
be  obtained  cheaply;  and  all  assertions  of  such  being  the  case  are 
delusions  and  snares.  The  purchaser  should  buy  of  thoroughly  respec- 
table wine  merchants,  not  of  publicans  or  grocers  ;  and  the  better  the 
character  of  the  firm  is,  the  surer  he  may  be  of  obtaining  a  pure  and 
wholesome  wine. 

Port 

stands  at  the  head  of  the  above  table,  and  has  long  been  held  in  general 
esteem  by  Englishmen,  but  it  is  well  known  that  there  is  no  wine  more 
easily  imitated  or  adulterated  ;  cheap  port  is  therefore  to  be  eschewed.  Ac- 
cording to  Mr.  Cyrus  Redding  (to  whose  admirable  and  amusing  volume 
"  On  Wines  "  we  recommend  the  reader),  port  or  Oporto  has  long  been  so 
grievously  brandied,  coloured  with  elderberries,  &c,  in  Portugal  itself, 
that  it  never  is  (or  only  by  accident)  a  pure  wine.  The  taste  for  it  was 
first  introduced  into  England  by  a  sense  of  economy.  Portugal  undertook 
to  import  our  woollens  if  her  port  wine  was  taken  at  a  lower  duty  than 
the  wines  of  France.    The  treaty  respecting  it,  called  the  Methuen  Treaty, 


*  From  South  Kensington  Food  Catalogue. 


254  Mas  dm — Sherry. 


was  signed  in  1703.  At  first  the  wine  was  supplied  tolerably  pure,  but  as 
it  became  an  established  favourite  in  England  it  was  gradually  more  and 
more  brandied  and  adulterated,  and  thus  the  English  taste  gradually 
acquired  a  relish  for  hot  fruity  wine,  which  it  has  not  yet  lost. 

Mr.  Henderson,  a  great  authority  on  the  subject  of  wines,  says  of  port 
or  Oporto,  "  The  wines  of  Oporto,  which  abound  in  the  astringent  princi- 
ple, and  derive  additional  potency  from  the  brandy  added  to  them  pre- 
viously to  exportation  (especially  those  intended  for  the  British  market) 
may  be  serviceable  in  disorders  of  the  alimentary  canal,  where  gentle 
tonics  are  required.  But  the  gallic  acid  renders  them  unfit  for  weak 
stomachs,  and  what  astringent  virtues  they  show  will  be  found  in  greater 
proportion  in  the  wines  of  Alicant  and  Rota,  which  contain  more  tannin 
and  less  acid.  The  excitement  they  produce  is  of  a  more  sluggish  nature 
than  that  attending  the  use  of  the  purer  French  wines,  and  does  not  en- 
liven the  fancy  in  the  same  degree.  As  a  frequent  beverage  they  are 
unquestionably  more  pernicious." 

For  persons  unable  to  purchase  port  wine  at  a  good  price  from  a  first- 
rate  wine  merchant,  Roussillon  is  an  excellent  substitute,  and  according 
to  Mr.  Redding  has  been  frequently  sold  for  port.  It  contains  only  18*13  °f 
alcohol,  port  23*39,  consequently  it  is  not  so  heating  or  intoxicating,  and 
it  is  considerably  cheaper  than  good  port.  It  is  a  wine  of  the  Pyrenees 
Orientales. 

■■  The  red  wines  of  Roussillon  are  remarkable  for  their  fine  deep  colour 
and  alcohol.  They  have  the  advantage  also  of  not  spoiling  when  left  in 
a  partially  filled  cask.  They  ameliorate  by  age.  They  deposit  continually, 
and  form  a  crust  on  the  bottle." — Redding  on  Wines. 

Masdeu 

is  an  excellent  Roussillon  wine ;  it  is  strong  in  body,  deep  in  colour,  and  of 
rich  soft  taste. 

Sherry 

is  either  brown  or  pale. 

Amontillado,  a  dry  delicate  sherry,  is  from  Andalusia.  It  is  excel- 
lent and  is  supposed  to  be  the  "  sack  "  of  Shakspeare. 

All  sherry  is  by  nature  of  a  pale  colour,  the  darker  shades  are  conferred 
by  age,  or  by  vino  de  color,  or  by  boiled  wine.  This  is  made  by  taking 
some  of  the  must  before  fermentation  begins  and  boiling  it  down  to  a 
sixth  of  the  quantity,  keeping  it  constantly  stirred  and  skimmed  from  all 
impurities.  When  the  liquor  is  quite  thick  the  fire  underneath  it  is  with- 
drawn gradually  and  it  is  let  get  cool.  This  boiled  wine  is  mixed  in  the 
proportion  of  a  quarter  or  less  quantity  with  the  pale  sherry,  and  thus 
makes  it  of  different  kinds  of  brown  shades,  consequently  brown  sherry 
is  sweeter  than  the  dry  wines. 

The  pale  sherry  is  the  pure  wine,  to  which  is  added  two  bottles  of 
brandy  to  the  butt. 

Manzanilla 

is  a  delicate  pure  wine  of  a  fine  straw  colour.  The  name  is  the  Spanish 
for  chamomile,  and  the  flavour  of  the  wine  probably  suggested  the  name, 


Foreign  Wines.  255 


as  there  is  a  chamomile  taste  in  Manzanilla.  "  This  wine,"  says  Mr. 
Redding,  "  is  the  driest  of  all  the  Spanish  wines,  scarcely  any  wine  what* 
ever  surpassing  its  delicacy  and  purity.  It  admits  of  no  mixture  of  any 
kind,  not  even  the  smallest  quantity  of  brandy,  without  deterioration  in 
taste  and  flavour.  When  carefully  made  it  becomes  a  perfect  wine, 
and  improves  with  age  beyond  all  other  kinds  both  in  flavour  and  firm- 
ness, so  as  to  surpass  almost  every  dry  wine."  Sherries  are  not  to  be 
judged  by  colour  but  by  taste.  They  are  subject  to  adulteration  and 
cannot  be  bought  pure  and  good  under  a  good  price.  Pure  sherry  being 
totally  without  acidity  is  considered  the  most  wholesome  of  wines.  A 
good  age  is  required  to  mellow  the  Spanish  wines. 

For  those  who  are  unable  to  afford  good  sherry,  Marsala  is  an  excel- 
lent substitute,  and  is  generally  very  pure.  It  resembles  Madeira  of  the 
second  class.  "A  voyage  to  India  and  home  renders  this  wine,  when  of 
the  best  quality,  a  most  excellent  dinner  wine,  equal  to  Madeira."* 

Now  as  the  advantages  to  Madeira  of  an  Eastern  voyage  are  motion 
and  heat,  why  could  not  both  be  contrived  for  the  Marsala  without  the 
voyage,  by  giving  it  motion  by  some  mechanical  means,  in  a  place  where 
the  temperature  is  kept  high  ?  Marsala  is  the  strongest  of  wines  ;  it  has 
25*09  per  cent,  o'f  alcohol. 

Madeira, 

Though  this  wine  is  no  longer  as  fashionable  as  it  once  was,  it  is  still 
considered  a  very  choice  and  excellent  wine.  It  requires  age,  and  is 
better  for  an  East  Indian  voyage.  Its  flavour  and  aroma  perfect  them- 
selves by  years,  and  it  stands  all  climates. 

Madeira  should  never  be  bought  cheaply,  as  it  cannot  be  sold  at  alow 
price  if  genuine,  and  there  are  many  imitations  of  it  from  the  rejected 
wines  of  the  south  of  the  island.  "Of  all  the  strong  wines,"  says  Mr. 
Henderson,  "  those  of  Madeira,  when  of  good  quality,  seem  best  adapted 
to  invalids  ;  being  equally  spirituous  as  sherry,  but  possessing  a  more 
delicate  flavour  and  aroma,  and  though  often  slightly  acidulous,  agreeing 
better  with  dyspeptic  habits."  Madeira  is  next  to  port  in  amount  of 
alcohol. 

Malmsey  Madeira  is  a  first-class  wine  of  great  excellence.  It  has 
not  so  much  alcohol  as  Madeira,  only  about  i6'4oper  cent. 

Claret, 

becoming  now  a  universal  beverage,  is  a  French  wine  of  the  Bordelais. 
The  name  claret  comes  (Mr.  Redding  tells  us)  from  Clairet  j  the  wine  is 
"  a  mixture  of  several  sorts  of  wine,  Beni-Castro  and  Bordeaux  are  thus 
mingled  up  for  the  English  market;  Sometimes  Languedoc  and  Bor- 
deaux, at  others  Hermitage  and  Alicant  with  Bordeaux,  and  uniformly 
a  portion  of  spirits  of  wine  in  addition." 

Claret  was  one  of  the  favourite  wines  of  our  ancestors,  and  is  exceed- 
ingly excellent  when  good,  but  the  sour  vi?i  ordinaire  sold  for  it  at  low 
rates  is  about  as  nasty  as  it  can  be.     But  those  weak  clarets  midl  well  in 


*  Cyrus  Redding  "  On  Wines,"  p.  28] 


256  Burgundy — Hocks. 


winter,  and  are  good  enough  for  ordinary  claret-cup  in  summer  when  in 
both  cases  sugar  is  added.  But  the  householder  who  lays  down  a  good 
cellar  should  give  the  best  price  for  claret. 

Chateau  Livran  is  a  good  wine  ;  St.  Julien  of  St.  Estephe  is  nourish- 
ing, with  great  body ;  Chateau  Belaire  ranks  next  to  Chateau  Margaux. 
Of  ordinary  clarets  St.  Emilion  is  a  good  cheap  wine.  Chateau 
Lafitte  is  a  wine  quite  unsurpassed  in  excellence.  Chateau  Latour  has 
greater  body  and  consistence  than  Chateau  Lafitte  ;  it  requires  to  be  kept 
a  year  longer  in  wood  than  Lafitte  to  attain  maturity. 

Chateau  Margaux  has  a  rich  colour  and  a  soft  bouquet,  and  strength 
without  headiness. 

The  best  Medoc  wines  are  Chateau  Margaux,  Chateau  Lafitte, 
Chateau  Latour.  These  wines  are  of  fine  colour  and  perfume,  less  warm 
than  Burgundy,  with  a  taste  of  the  violet,  and  a  rich  purple  hue. 

The  Bordeaux  white  wines  are  Chateau  d'Yquem,  Haut  Sauterne, 
Sauterne,  and  Vin  de  Graves.  These  wines  vary  in  excellence  and  in  price. 
The  first-named  are  excellent  light  wines. 

Burgundy. 

The  red  wines  of  Bungundy  are  distinguished  by  great  spirituosity 
and  a  powerful  aroma.  Owing  perhaps  to  this  aroma  they  are  more 
heating  than  many  stronger  wines.  They  are  pleasant,  healthful,  and  in- 
vigorating. The  best  Burgundies  are  Romanee-Conti,  Chambertin,  red 
and  white,  St.  Georges,  Clos  Vougeot ;  and  for  cheaper  wines  Beaune, 
Beaujolais,  and  Macon.  The  finest  white  Burgundy  is  Montrachet. 
Chablis  is  an  excellent  light  wine. 

Chambertin  is  white  and  red.  "  It  is  a  wine  of  great  fulness,  keeps 
well,  and  has  the  aroma  perfect.  It  was  the  favourite  wine  of  Napoleon." 
— Reddi?ig  on  Wines. 

The  Romanee-Conti  is  considered  the  most  perfect  wine  in  Burgundy. 
St.  Georges  is  an  exquisite  wine.  Montrachet  is  a  delicious  white  wine, 
considered  the  best  white  wine  in  Burgundy  ;  it  has  an  exquisite  perfume. 
Burgundy  is  always  sent  to  England  in  bottles,  and  is  said  to  deteriorate 
even  on  the  short  voyage  across  the  Channel.  Chablis  is  a  pleasant  dry 
wine.  There  are  very  good  second-class  Burgundies,  of  lower  price  than 
the  fine  wines  above  named.  These  are  Vosne,  Nuits,  Volnay,  Beaune, 
and  Pommard,  &c. 

The  wines  of  the  Rhone  must  find  their  place  in  a  well-furnished 
cellar.     Of  these 

Hermitage  is  full  of  body,  spirit,  and  perfume.  The  white  is  the 
finest  of  white  wines.  Red  Hermitage  is  of  good  body  and  has  a  rasp- 
berry flavour.  The  second  growth  of  red  Hermitage  (less  expensive)  is 
also  a  very  good  wine. 

Frontignac  is  a  fine  spirituous  luscious  wine — a  muscadine  wine. 
Frontignac  is  white,  sweet,  and  of  moderate  price. 

We  come  now  to  the  light  and  most  excellent  wines  of  the  Rhine. 

Hocks. 

From  the  town  of  Hochheim  on  the  Marne  the  name  Hock  is  derived  ; 
and  is  too  generally  applied  to  all  German  wines  by  us.    The  Hoch- 


Foreign  Wines.  257 


heimer  made  near  this  town  is  very  excellent,  but  the  best  wine  is  the 
Schloss-Johannesberger,  made  on  Prince  Metternich's  estate.  The 
"  Steinberger  "  is  sometimes  said  to  rival  the  Johannesberger  however. 

Marcobrunner  is  another  excellent  Rhine  wine.  Rudesheimer  and 
Niersteiner  are  delicate  and  free  from  acidity. 

There  are  numerous  Hocks  of  an  inferior  quality  sold  in  England, 
varying  in  price  from  iSs.  to  54^.,  or  even  higher. 

Moselle, 

The  Moselle  wines  are  light  and  secondary  to  those  of  the  Rhine  and 
Marne.  Moselle  wines  have  lately  become  favourites  with  us.  They  will 
not  keep  as  long  as  Rhine  wine,  but  are  very  pleasant  and  wholesome. 
These  light  wines  "are  more  refrigerant,"  says  Mr.  Henderson,  "than 
any  others,  and  are  excellent  for  persons  in  low  fevers,  and  when  there  is 
great  nervous  exhaustion." 

The  German  wines  are  imported  in  bottles,  generally  in  cases  con- 
taining three  dozen  each. 

Champagne, 

"Champagne,"  says  Mr.  Redding,  in  his  interesting  book,  "reached 
its  present  perfection  and  estimation  in  16 10,  at  the  coronation  of 
Louis  XIII.  The  oldest  anecdote  which  the  French  possess  relative  to 
the  excellence  of  Rheims  wine  dates  as  far  back  as  1397,  when  Vinceslaus, 
King  of  Bohemia  and  of  the  Romans,  on  coming  to  France  to  negotiate 
a  treaty  with  Charles  VI.,  arrived  at  Rheims,  and  hav.ng  tasted  the  wine 
of  Champagne — it  is  to  be  presumed  for  the  first  time — spun  out  his 
diplomatic  errand  to  the  longest  possible  moment,  and  then  gave  up  all 
that  was  required  of  him  in  order  to  prolong  his  stay,  getting  drunk  on 
Champagne  daily  before  dinner.  It  is  said  that  Francis  I.  of  France, 
Pope  Leo  X.,  Charles  V.  of  Spain,  and  Henry  VIII.  of  England  had  each 
of  them  a  vineyard  at  Ay,  their  own  property,  and  on  each  vineyard  a 
small  house  occupied  by  a  superintendent.  Thus  the  genuine  article  was 
secured  by  each  sovereign  for  his  own  table." 

The  vineyards  on  the  banks  of  the  Marne  produce  the  best  Cham- 
pagne. 

Champagne  is  divided  into  sparkling  or  mousseux,  demi-sparkling 
{ere mans  or  demi-mousseux),  and  still  Champagne  or  non-moiisseux. 
They  are  white,  straw-coloured,  grey,  rosy,  or  red. 

Still  Champagne  is  infinitely  the  best,  though  not  generally  preferred 
in  England. 

Sillery  has  no  sparkle  at  all.  The  wine  which  froths  only  slightly 
is  the  best. 

Ice  improves  Champagne  by  diminishing  its  effervescence.  The 
Champagne  which  effervesces  violently  is  not  the  best  wine.  The  best 
Champagnes  are  :  Sillery  (still  and  dry),  Ay  (fine  effervescing  wine,  bright 
in  colour),  Hautvilliers,  Dizy,  Epernay  "  Closet."  These  are  white 
Champagnes.  The  Hautvilliers,  Dizy,  Marenil,  and  Epernay  Closet, 
which  are  red  Champagnes,  are  third-class  wines. 

The  use  of  Champagne  for  invalids   cannot  be  extolled  sufficiently. 

s 


258  Champagne. 


The  writer  has  seen  cases  where  its  administration  has  been  apparently 
life-giving.  It  acts  so  quickly  on  the  circulation,  raises  the  depressed 
spirits  so&gently,  and  exhilarates  without  causing  any  after-reaction,  that 
it  cannot  be  praised  enough  as  a  curative  agent. 

New  Champagne  glasses,  which  by  means  of  a  hollow  stem  keep  up 
the  effervescence,  have  been  invented  for  some  years,  but  we  prefer  the 
old-fashioned  glasses.  Rhine  wines  and  Moselle  should  be  drunk  out  of 
the  thinnest  glass  it  is  possible  to  procure.  The  glasses  sold  for  Hock 
are  green. 

The  wines  of  Champagne,  whether  still  or  effervescing,  are  generally 
in  perfection  the  third  year  of  bottling  ;  but  the  best  wines  gain,  rather 
than  lose  in  delicacy  by  keeping,  up  to  ten  or  twenty  years. 

Though  good  Champagne  is  so  excellent  its  imitations  or  any  species 
of  bad  Champagne  are  very  deleterious. 

English  gooseberry  wine  is  a  pleasant  effervescent  wine,  but  altogether 
lacks  the  aromal  bouquet  of  Champagne. 

Amongst  rarer  wines  in  the  English  cellar  should  be  Tokay,  a  Hun- 
garian wine,  thick,  rich,  and  expensive  ;  Constantia,  from  Cape  of  Good 
Hope,  a  luscious  wine  ;  Lachrymae  Christi,  a  Neapolitan  wine,  a  rich 
sweet  luscious  red  wine. 

Mountain  or  old  Malaga  is  little  drunk  now.  It  is  a  rich  sweet 
wine. 

The  Hungarian  wines  have  recently  come  into  the  English  market 
with  some  success.  There  is  a  Hungarian  Chablis  sold  very  cheap, 
but  we  have  no  personal  knowledge  of  it,  and  the  red  wines  are  said  to  be 
pleasant  and  good. 

The  Greek  wines  also  have  taken  their  place  in  England,  and  are 
said  to  be  very  good. 

Of  these  the  wines  of  Cyprus  were  once  well-known  in  England. 
Cyprus  of  the  Commandery  is  still  valued.  The  age  of  Cyprus  wine  may 
be  known  by  pouring  it  into  a  glass  and  observing  whether  oily  particles 
adhere  to  the  sides.  It  is  often  adulterated  with  sweet  wines  and  per- 
fume.. Cold  injures  it ;  it  should  be  placed  before  the  fire  in  winter 
before  drinking.  Kephisia,  when  red,  resembles  claret  rather,  and  is  a 
good  wine. 

While  Kephisia  is  a  pleasant  dry  wine,  Patras,  when  red,  approaches 
the  character  of  Burgundy. 

Mont  Hymet  is  also  a  pleasant  wine. 

The  purchaser  should  taste  these  wines  and  judge  for  himself,  how- 
ever, as  in  these  matters  personal  taste  can  alone  decide. 

The  Spanish  Catalan,  red  and  white,  is  considered  a  good  wine  when 
it  can  be  had  pure,  and  is  used  in  some  of  the  hospitals.  It  is  a  spirituous 
red  wine,  warm  and  fruity.  It  is  very  cheap,  and  Kinloch's  is,  we  believe, 
considered  the  be3t.  These  wines  are  infinitely  preferable  to  the  old 
cheap  Cape  wine,  of  which  one  now  hears  very  little. 

The  Cape  wines,  except  Constantia,  are  of  a  very  inferior  quality  and 
now  seldom  purchased.  Lisbon  and  Bucellas,  once  favourite  wines,  are 
now  out  of  fashion. 

Australia  has  sent  us  "  Adelaide  "  wine  ;  but  as  yet  it  is  not  in  much 
vogue. 


The  Wine  Cellar.  259 


The  tables  of  the  higher  classes  have  long  been  served  with  the  light 
wines  of  France  and  the  Rhine,  port  being  seldom  taken  (except  with 
cheese)  or  with  the  dessert,  or  on  account  of  its  known  age  and 
purity. 


THE     WINE    CELLAR. 

The  wine  cellar  should  if  possible  face  north,  and  be  divided  in  two 
portions,  as  some  wines,  such  as  Madeira,  Sherry,  Malaga,  and  Cyprus,  keep 
better  at  a  higher  temperature  than  the  light  wines  require.  "  The  wines 
of  Champagne,  Bordeaux,  and  the  Rhone  should  be  kept  in  cellars  where 
no  motion  can  affect  them,  far  from  the  vibration  or  rather  trembling  of 
the  earth  from  the  traffic  over  granite  pavements;  they  should  be  as  far 
removed  from  sewers  and  the  air  of  courts  where  trades  of  a  bad  odour 
are  carried  on,  as  possible." 

Bad  smells  affect  wine.  Vinegar  must  never  be  kept  in  a  wine  cellar, 
and  the  temperature  should  be  maintained  the  same  all  the  year  round, 
by  a  thermometer  ;  for  wine  is  influenced  by  heat  and  cold,  by  frequent 
moving  and  shaking.  The  temperature  of  the  cellar  should  be  between 
46°  and  560  Fahrenheit. 

Greek  and  Hungarian  wines  require  a  temperature  of  66°  Fahrenheit.* 

Sparkling  wines  should  be  kept  in  the  very  coolest  part  of  the  cellar, 
cork  downwards.  All  other  kinds  should  be  laid  down  horizontally,  that 
the  cork  may  be  kept  moist  and  the  air  thus  excluded  ;  but  the  rich  wines 
of  liqueur,  as  Malaga,  Syracuse,  &c,  may  be  placed  on  their  ends. 

Wines  differ  considerably  as  to  the  time  of  keeping.  They  lose  their 
bouquet  by  being  kept  too  long.  There  is  always  a  middle  period  when 
they  are  best  used. 

Burgundy  will  be  good  for  twenty  years,  but  it  does  not  improve  after 
fourteen.  Good  Champagne  improves  for  fifteen  years,  and  will  keep 
forty  years,  but  is  best  at  twelve  years  old. 

Roussillon  will  keep  for  any  length  of  time.  The  luscious  wines  im- 
prove by  keeping,  as  do  port  and  sherry.  Effervescing  wines  require  to 
be  bottled  early.  Delicate  and  light  wines  should  remain  unbottled  as 
long  as  possible,  for  in  that  state  they  improve  most.  Strong-bodied 
wines,  on  the  contrary,  should  remain  long  in  bottle.  When  any  wine 
ceases  to  deposit  it  begins  to  deteriorate. 

Great  care  should  be  taken  in  bottling  delicate  wines. 

Mr.  Redding  tells  us  that  on  the  Continent  a  plan  is  adopted  which 
enables  the  wine  to  be  drawn  off  slowly  (even  as  required  for  drinking) 
without  injuring  the  wine  by  the  inevitable  admission  of  air.  A  bottle  of 
the  purest  olive  oil  is  poured  on  the  wine.  It  floats  of  course  at  the  top, 
and  excludes  the  air  from  the  partly  emptied  cask,  so  that  the  quality  of 
the  wine  will  be  preserved  for  a  yearns  duration. 

Wine  in  casks  should  be  firmly  laid  up,  and  bottled  only  in  fine  weather. 


Artificial  heat  may  be  introduced  into  a  cellar  by  means  of  a  chafing-dish, 

S    2 


260  Decanting. 


The  bottles  should  be  cleansed  and  rinsed  twenty-four  hours  before 
they  are  filled. 

Shot  should  never  be  used  to  cleanse  wine  bottles,  as  if  any  of  them  get 
jammed  in,  the  acid  of  the  wine  will  act  on  them.  Clean  gravel  is  much 
the  best.  After  washing,  the  bottles  should  be  well  drained,  being  placed 
with  their  necks  downwards.  Afterwards  they  should  be  rinsed  with  a 
little  brandy,  if  the  wine  is  not  of  the  first  class.  Very  fine  wine  would 
be  spoiled  by  the  brandy. 

The  corks  should  be  selected  with  care  ;  they  must  be  sound,  not 
specked  with  black,  well  cut,  and  quite  new,  or  they  will  give  a  bad  taste 
to  the  wine.  The  corks  are  improved  by  steeping  them  in  hot  water.  A 
wooden  mallet,  a  bottling  boot,  and  a  squeezer  will  be  required.  The 
corking  boot  is  buckled  by  a  strap  to  the  knee,  the  bottle  placed  in  it,  and 
the  cork  after  being  squeezed  in  the  press  is  driven  into  the  bottle.  But 
we  are  going  a  little  too  fast.     The  wine  has  to  be  bottled  first. 

Place  the  bottle  and  filterer  in  a  tub  by  the  cask,  bore  a  hole  in  the 
lower  part  of  the  cask  with  a  gimlet,  and  receive  the  wine  in  the  bottle. 
Two  persons  should  bottle  the  wine.  The  bottle,  when  as  full  as  required, 
should  be  passed  to  the  person  who  corks,  who  does  it  as  above  described. 
As  the  wine  draws  near  the  bottom  of  the  cask  a  thick  piece  of  muslin  is 
placed  in  the  strainer  to  receive  the  sediment.  Bottles  should  have  the 
corks  covered  with  a  composition  of  resin,  Burgundy  pitch,  and  yellow 
wax,  with  a  little  red  mastic.  This  is  melted  over  the  fire  till  it  froths, 
then  stirred  and  replaced  till  it  has  well  combined  ;  with  this  mixture  the 
corks  should  be  wholly  covered. 

The  wine  when  bottled  must  be  stored  away  in  its  respective  bins, 
and  covered  with  a  layer  of  sawdust.  The  rows  of  bottles  are  separated 
by  a  lath,  and  the  necks  laid  alternately  in  opposite  directions,  the  necks 
of  the  second  row  being  placed  towards  the  bottoms  of  the  first.  Wine  so 
laid  in  will  be  ready  for  use  according  to  its  age.  Old  port  wine  will  be 
ready  to  drink  after  it  has  been  bottled  about  six  months. 

Good  sherry  will  be  fit  to  drink  as  soon  as  the  "  sickness,"  as  it  is 
called,  ceases. 

For  fining  wine  the  following  receipt  is  a  good  one.  Draw  a  gallon 
and  a  half  of  the  wine,  whisk  into  one  quart  of  it  the  whites  of  five  eggs, 
with  a  whisk.  When  it  is  thoroughly  mixed,  pour  it  into  the  cask  by  the 
bunghole  and  stir  it  up  with  a  long  thin  stick  ;  then  pour  in  the  rest  of 
the  gallon  ;  stir  again  and  skim  off  the  bubbles  which  follow.  Close  the 
bunghole  and  let  it  stand  for  three  or  four  days,  or  isinglass  may  be  used  ; 
one  ounce  is  sufficient  to  clear  ioo  gallons  of  wine. 

Decanting. 

Port  wine  should  be  decanted  very  carefully  into  a  warm  decanter, 
keeping  the  chalked  side  of  the  bottle  uppermost,  so  as  not  to  disturb  the 
crust  or  sediment.  Sherry  should  be  decanted  two  hours  before  it  is  used  ; 
as  should  all  the  Greek  white  wines. 

Greek  and  Hungarian  red  wines  should  only  be  decanted  just  before 
using.     The  same  may  be  said  of  the  French  red  wines. 

The  deposit  which  exists  in  all  wine  (though  in  some  it  is  scarcely 


Distilled  Spirits.  261 


perceptible)  consists  in  port,  of  tartar  and  tannin,  which,  uniting  with  the 
albuminous  matter  in  it,  forms  a  crust,  which  becomes  year  by  year  so 
thin  that  it  has  obtained  the  name  of  beeswing. 

The  deposit  from  white  wine  is  chiefly  tartar,  in  the  form  of  crystals. 

Wines  are  made  in  this  country  from  oranges,  raisins,  gooseberries, 
currants,  elderberries,  and  other  fruits.  They  contain  other  acids  besides 
tartaric,  which  are  not  thrown  down  as  insoluble  salts  ;  hence  the  neces- 
sity of  adding  to  them  large  quantities  of  sugar,  to  cover  the  taste  of  the 
acid.  The  sugar  in  this  case  is  in  a  readily  fermentible  condition,  hence 
these  wines  cannot  be  taken  in  large  quantities  with  the  same  impunity 
as  wines  holding  less  sugar  in  solution. 

It  is  better,  if  possible,  to  buy  foreign  wines  in  the  wood,  and  bottle 
them  at  home,  but  this  is  not  always  practicable. 

Half-pint  bottles  are  not  economical  and  not  requisite,  and  even  a 
bottle  of  Champagne  may  be  kept  partly  full  after  opening,  by  corking 
tightly  with  a  silver-stoppered  cork  and  turning  the  neck  downwards. 

DISTILLED  SPIRITS. 

The  analysis  of  an  imperial  pint  of  Brandy,  Rum,  and  Gin  is  shown 
in  this  table  : — 

Water.      Alcohol.  Sugar, 

oz.             oz.  oz.  gr. 

Brandy 9I     ...     io|     ...  o    80 

Rum 5       ...     15       ...  o      o 

Gin  (best) 12       ...       8       ...  o      o 

Gin  (retail)     ....     16       ...       4       ...  |      o 

Distillation  was  invented  by  the  Arabs,  and  was  introduced  into 
Europe  by  them  A.D.  900.  But  it  was  not  in  general  use,  the 
chemist  and  alchemist  alone  practising  it,  till  the  seventeenth  century, 
when  the  art  was  fully  established  in  France. 

The  "  still "  became  then  very  common  in  England,  and  in  all  great 
country  houses  the  lady  had  her  still-room  and  her  "  still-room  maid" 
(who,  by  the  by,  retains  the  same  name,  though  the  still-room  in  the  old 
sense  exists  no  longer),  and  here  the  housemother  of  Queen  Anne's  days, 
and  long  after,  distilled  rose  and  lavender  water  ;  and  "cordial  waters," 
with  which  she  dosed  her  family. 

When  wines  or  other  fermented  liquors  are  submitted  to  heat,  the 
alcohol  distils  over  and  may  be  collected  in  a  receiver.  The  product  is 
called  distilled  spirits.  The  alcohol  is  not,  however,  pure,  but  mixed  with 
water.  It  is  difficult  to  procure  alcohol  pure.  A  spirit  having  a  density 
of  "825,  is  called  proof  spirit  in  this  country  ;  and  when  distilled  spirits 
contain  more  or  less  alcohol  than  this  they  are  said  to  be  under  or  above 
proof. 

Brandy  is  distilled  from  wine,  cider,  perry,  corn,  potatoes,  prunes, 
and  cherries. 

The  brandy  which  first  passes  condensed  from  the  still  is  weak  and  is 
always  thrown  back  again  ;  then  follows  the  purest  product ;  the  best 
brandy.    As  the  distillation  proceeds  the  brandy  becomes  weaker.    The 


262  Distilled  Spirits. 

Eau  de  vie  premiere,  the  best,  is  the  only  brandy  exported  from  France. 
Brandy  of  inferior  quality  is  distilled  from  garden  fruits,  honey,  molasses, 
corn,  potatoes,  &c. 

The  peculiar  flavour  of  brandy  depends  on  the  addition  of  peach 
kernels  to  the  liquid  while  distilling.  It  also  contains  cenanthic  and  acetic 
ethers. 

Spanish  Brandy  ranks  next  in  quality  to  French  brandy.  French 
Brandy  is  called  Cognac  from  the  chief  place  of  its  manufactory. 

Gin  is  obtained  from  fermented  grain,  to  which  the  berries  of  the 
juniper  are  added  to  give  it  a  flavour.  Other  flavouring  substances  are 
employed,  as  cinnamon,  cloves,  &c,  for  what  is  called  "  cordial  gin." 
The  words  gin  and  Geneva  are  a  corruption  of  Genievre,  French  for 
juniper. 

Gin  is  not  allowed  to  be  sold  pure  by  the  distiller,  because  for  the  con- 
venience of  the  excise  it  must  be  distilled  only  in  a  certain  mode  and 
strength  above  proof.  The  distiller  is  compelled  to  send  his  product  to  a 
person  called  a  rectifier,  who  reduces  and  adulterates  it  at  his  pleasure. 

The  worst  possible  adulterations  are  practised  on  English  gin,  and  it 
is  consequently  the  worst  spirit  to  drink.  Unhappily  it  is  chiefly  the  poor 
who  suffer  from  this  wrong.  The  com  spirit  of  the  Scotch  and  Irish  is 
suffered  to  be  purely  distilled.  Whisky  is  therefore  less  injurious  than 
gin.     It  has  a  slightly  smoky  flavour. 

Rum  is  distilled,  from  fermented  sugar  and  molasses,  in  the  West 
Indies.  Its  peculiar  odour  depends  on  butyric  ether,  and  a  flavour  is 
sometimes  given  to  it  by  the  addition  of  pineapples. 

_  Rum  is  a  wholesome  spirit  ;  chiefly  drunk  in  the  navy  by  the  seamen. 
It  is  very  nourishing,  and  is  often  given  with  milk  to  invalids  ;  a  table- 
spoonful  to  a  tumbler  of  milk.     Rum  should  be  kept  a  long  time. 

Hollands  is  a  gin  from  Schiedam. 

Arrack  is  obtained  from  fermented  rice,  betel-nuts,  or  the  sap  of 
the  various  species  of  palm. 

Potato  Brandy  is  made  by  converting  the  starch  of  the  potato  into 
glucose,  and  then  fermenting  and  distilling  it. 

Liqueurs  are  spirits  distilled  from  various  substances  which  give 
their  peculiar  flavour,  and  to  which  a  considerable  quantity  of  sugar  is 
added. 

Maraschino  de  Zara  is  a  liquor  distilled  from  the  cherry. 

Goldwasser  or  Eau  de  Vie  de  Dantsic  is  distilled  from  com 
and  has  gold  leaf  floating  on  it. 

Rosolio  is  made  from  brandy,  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  distilled. 

Shrub  is  a  liquor  made  from  rum — now  seldom  seen. 


20; 


BEER   AND    BREWING. 


The  most  common  form  of  using  alcohol  in  this  country  is  that  of 
Beer. 

An  Imperial  pint  of  the  Beers  named  contains  the  following 
ingredients  : — 


Beers. 

W  ater. 

Alcohol. 

Sugar. 

Acetic 
Acid. 

London  Stout 

London  Porter 

Pale  Ale 

Mild  Ale 

Strong  Ale 

ozs. 

19* 
17* 
18* 

18 

ozs. 

1* 

3 

4 

-  2 
2 

ozs.  grs. 
0     281 
0    267 
0    240 
0     280 
2     136 

grs. 
54 
45 
40 

33 
54 

Ale 

has  been  for  centuries  the  national  beverage  of  the  English.  _  The 
"  mead"  of  the  Saxons  appears  to  have  early  merged  into  it,  as  it  is  men- 
tioned by  Chaucer  ;  and  in  his  time,  and  afterwards,  its  praises  were  sung 
in  popular  songs  and  Christmas  choruses.  But  the  "  good  ale  "  of  Bishop 
Still's  famous  song  was  not  the  ale  of  to-day.  It  was  made  of  malt 
it  is  true,  and  resembled  our  ale  in  being  an  alcoholic  liquor  ;  but  to  the 
malt,  umnalted  oats  were  added,  and  the  bitter  flavour  was  given  by  the 
addition  of  ivy-berries,  or  bay-berries.  An  attempt  was  made  in  1428  to 
flavour  ale  with  hops,  but  the  people,  always  averse  to  novelty,  petitioned 
Parliament  against  it  as  a  "wicked  weed,"  and  the  use  of  them  was 
deferred  till  1528,  when,  as  the  old  rhyme  tells  us — 

" ,  Reformation,  and  beer,* 

Came  into  England  in  the  same  year." 

It  appears  likely  that  hops  were  not  indigenous  to  Britain,  but  were  intro- 
duced from  the  Hanse  Towns,  where  they  were  used  for  the  beer  which 
formed  one  of  the  staple  exports  of  those  boroughs  in  the  thirteenth 
century. 


Ale  made  with  hops. 


264 


THE  BREWERY. 

The  brewery,  when  possible,  should  be  a  separate  apartment,  as 
nothing  is  worse  for  the  beer  than  to  allow  the  place  in  which  it  is  made 
to  be  used  for  washing,  &c. 

Any  place  well-covered  in  and  ventilated  will  do  for  a  brewhouse,  but 
the  bottom  should  be  paved  with  brick  or  stone,  that  it  may  always  be 
well  cleansed.  Bad  smells  in  the  neighbourhood  will  spoil  the  beer,  for 
the  proper  making  of  which  pure  air  and  soft  water  are  most  essential. 

Proper  Management  of  Vessels  for  Brewing. 

The  utensils  for  brewing  should  never  be  used  for  any  other  purpose 
except  perhaps  for  home-made  wines,  and  when  so  used  should  be  most 
carefully  cleansed.     They  should  be  kept  in  a  very  clean  place. 

The  casks  should  be  cleaned  before  using  with  boiling  water,  the 
heads  taken  out,  and  the  inside  scrubbed  with  sand  and  fuller's  earth. 
When  this  is  done  the  head  is  to  be  put  on  again,  and  the  cask  scalded 
well ;  then  a  piece  of  unslacked  lime  should  be  thrown  into  it,  and  the 
bung  stopped  close.  When  the  casks  have  stood  thus  for  some 
time,  they  must  be  rinsed  well  with  cold  water,  they  will  then  be  fit  for 
use. 

The  greatest  attention  must  be  paid  to  the  coolers,  for  if  they  are  not 
quite  pure  and  sweet  they  will  communicate  a  most  unpleasant  taste  to 
the  home-brewed.  Our  readers  may  have  occasionally  detected  in  it  a 
flavour  like  snuff ;  this  proceeds  from  coolers  which  have  contracted  a 
mustiness  or  smell,  which  no  Washing  will  remove,  when  wet  has  long 
lodged  in  the  wood  of  the  cooler.  When  the  coolers  are  being  pre- 
pared, the  water  used  for  cleaning  should  never  be  suffered  to  stand  too 
long  in  them,  or  it  will  soak  in  and  produce  this  taint — for  this  reason  it 
is  better  to  have  coolers  lined  with  lead  ;  they  are  very  clean,  and  expedite 
the  cooling  of  the  liquor,  thus  saving  a  good  deal  of  waste  of  the  liquor  by 
evaporation. 

If  the  coolers  are  of  wood,  it  is  best  to  scrub  them  well  over  with  cold 
water  ;  hot  water,  old  housekeepers  say,  is  more  likely  to  develop  the  evil 
taint. 

The  mash  tub  also  must  be  kept  perfectly  clean  ;  nor  must  the  grains 
be  left  in  the  tub  longer  than  the  day  after  brewing,  lest  they  should  sour 
it.  A  sour  scent  in  the  brewhouse  will  be  likely  to  infect  the  liquor  and 
worts. 

The  brewhouse  floor  shouiu  be  washed  down,  so  as  to  insure  cleanli- 
ness. 


265 


BREWING   UTENSILS. 

Every  brewhouse,  large  or  small,  must  have  its  plant  or  proper 
utensils  ;  these  are — 

1.  The  copper  for  the  liquor  or  wort,  or  when  possible  two  coppers 
are  better,  one  for  the  water  and  one  for  the  wort. 


Brewing  Copper. 

2.  The  mash  tub,  which  is  a  tub  with  a  false  bottom  some  inches 
above  the  true  bottom.     It  is  bored  full  of  small  holes  through  which  the 


Mash  Tub. 


wort  is  drained  from  the  malt.  These  holes  must  be  examined  occa- 
sionally to  see  that  they  do  not  get  choked  up.  If  they  are,  a  skewer 
should  be  made  hot  and  they  should  be  repierced  with  it. 

For  home  use  a  wine  butt  cut  down,  with  a  false  bottom  put  in  it, 
answers  every  purpose. 

3.  The  oar  or  rudder,  anciently  called  the  Pcnstoff,  for  stirring  up  the 
malt  in  the  mash  tub. 


:66 


Brewing  Utensils. 


4.  The  undcrback — that  is,  a  tub  to  receive  the  wort  as  it  comes  out  of 


Underbade. 

the  mash  tub.     The  upper  part  of  the  cut-down  wine  butt  would  answer 
for  it. 

5.  The  Coolers. — These  are  oblong  shallow  vessels.     They  should^  be 
raised  at  one  end  to  allow  the  wort  to  run  off  free  of  the  sediment. 


Cooler. 

6.  The  Fermenting  tun  ;  it  should  be  large  enough  to  hold  the  whole 
brewing ;  but  the  mash  tub,  with  the  false  bottom  taken  out,  can  be  used. 


Fermenting  Tun  and  Rouser. 


Brewing  Utensils. 


267 


And  we  may  observe  here,  that  the  grains  taken  out  are  of  great  use  for 
feeding  cows  and  pigs. 

7.  Casks  and  oak-stands  to  place  them  on.    As  to  size  and  number, 
they  will  depend  on  the  quantity  required. 

8.  Stillions — *.*.,  flat  wooden  troughs  in  which  the  vats  or  barrels 
stand  while  the  yeast  is  coming  over. 


Stillion. 
0.  A  thermometer  in  a  tin  case  made  for  brewers. 


Thermometer. 
10.  The  Saccharometer — unnecessary  in  private  brewhouses. 


268  Materials  used  in  Brewim 


ii.  A  few  tap  tubs,  with  iron  hoops. 

12.  Six  tin  spouts  for  the  beer  to  work  through  when  in  the  casks. 

13.  A  whisk  for  the  yeast. 

14.  A  bushel  measure  to  measure  the  malt. 

15.  A  tub  and  skimmer  for  the  yeast. 


Tap  Trough. 


Materials  used  in  Brewing. 

The  materials  required  for  brewing  pure  beer  are  Malt,  Hops,  Yeast, 
and  water  and  isinglass  for  fining — (this  is  dissolve \  in  sour  beer). 

Malt  is  made  from  barley,  wheat,  oats,  or  rye  ;  but  barley  is  the  best, 
and  is  used  for  English  beer. 

Malting,  or  making  malt,  is  performed  by  putting  the  barley  in  a 
cistern,  steeping  it  in  water  till  the  grains  become  swollen  and  soft, 
and  then  piling  it  in  a  heap,  to  develop  heat  by  the  absorption  of  oxygen 
from  the  air.  After  this  the  grain  is  spread  about  on  the  floor,  more  or 
less,  according  to  the  temperature  of  the  air.  It  soon  begins  to  sprout, 
and  throws  out  a  rootlet  and  germ,  when  the  peculiar  chemical  substance 
called  diastase  is  developed,  which  has  the  singular  power  of  converting 
starch  first  into  dextrin,  and  afterwards  into  grape-sugar.  In  fourteen 
days  the  barley  will  have  sprouted  sufficiently  ;  its  starch  being  to  a  great 
extent  converted  into  sugar.  It  is  then  dried  in  a  kiln,  and  is  in  a  fit  state 
to  use  for  brewing. 

There  are  four  sorts  of  malt  ;  made  by  varying  the  amount  of  heat 
employed  in  drying  it.  These  kinds  are  called  pale,  amber,  brown,  and 
blown. 

The  pale  malt  contains  the  largest  amount  of  saccharine  matter,  and 
consequently  makes  the  best  and  strongest  beer. 

Amber  malt  is  only  slightly  scorched,  and  has  therefore  nearly  as 
much  sugar  in  it  as  the  pale  ;  in  brown  malt  the  scorching  has  greatly 
diminished  the  amount  of  sugar  ;  in  the  black  or  blown,  the  sugar  has 
been  by  heat  converted'  nto  caramel,  which  has  a  bitter  taste. 

In  choosing  malt  it  is  best  to  buy  that  which  has  the  grains  full, 
round  and  plump,  with  a  thin  skin,  and  with  a  mellow  sweet  taste.  In 
testing  it  draw  a  broken  grain  across  a  board ;  if  it  leaves  a  rich  chalk 
mark  it  is  good — or  put  some  in  water  ;  good  malt  always  swims ;  if  there 
is  raw  barley  mixed  with  it,  it  will  sink.  Maltsters  sometimes  adulterate 
their  malt  with  raw  barley,  but  it  will  never  float  as  good  malt  does.  Malt 
should  weigh  from  40  to  45  lbs.  per  bushel.  If  it  is  light  it  is  not  so  good, 
or  pure. 

It  is  best  to  grind  the  malt  at  home,  as  it  measures  more  when  ground 


Hops —  Water  2  69 


than  it  does  in  the  grain.  It  should  not  be  ground  too  fine,  and  it  should 
be  crushed  or  ground  nearly  a  week  (or  if  high  dried  or  dark  malt,  ten 
days  or  a  fortnight)  before  using — that  it  may  mellow. 

The  pale  malt  is  the  most  wholesome.  Beer  made  of  brown  malt  turns 
sour  sooner  than  the  pale  does. 

Hops. 

The  hop  or  Humulus  Lupitlus,  is  a  plant  now  extensively  cul- 
tivated in  England.  Our  hop  gardens  form  a  portion  of  the  national 
wealth,  and  far  excel  in  picturesque  beauty  the  vineyards  of  France 
and  Spain.  Hops  are  cultivated  chiefly  in  Kent,  Sussex,  Worcester- 
shire, and  Herefordshire  ;  also  in  Belgium  and  the  United  States. 
They  require  a  rich  and  loamy  soil,  and  great  quantities  of  manure. 
They  need  the  greatest  care,  and  are  always  an  uncertain  crop.  In 
unfavourable  seasons  they  are  imported. 

The  hops  from  South  and  Mid-Kent  are  the  strongest  and  most  highly 
flavoured.  Herefordshire  and  Worcestershire  hops,  of  a  more  delicate 
flavour,  are  used  chiefly  for  pale  ale.  Belgium  hops  are  used  for  porter. 
"  Spent  hops" — i.e.,  those  which  have  been  boiled  in  the  wort,  are  used  for 
manure. 

Hops  are  gathered  by  hand  in  September  and  the  first  week  of 
October,  and  are  rapidly  kiln-dried.  After  which  they  are  put  into 
pockets,  or  bags,  where  they  become  a  solid  greenish-yellow  mass.  The 
active  principle  of  the  hop  resides  in  a  bitter  resinous  matter  called 
lupulin,  and  also  in  an  essential  oil,  both  of  which  prevent  beer  from 
decomposing. 

Hops  retain  their  strength  up  to  three  or  four  years  old,  after  which 
they  are  worthless  ;  but  the  fresher  they  are  the  better. 

In  selecting  hops  we  must  think  of  the  kind  of  ale  for  which  they  are 
to  be  used.  If  for  pale  ale  or  table  beer  new  hops  of  a  pale  yellow 
colour  and  mild  flavour  should  be  chosen.  They  should  have  a  clammy 
feel  when  rubbed,  and  plenty  of  yellow  farina  on  them.  If  they  are 
required  for  brewing  strong  ales,  porter,  or  stout,  the  strongest  hops  of 
Kent  or  Sussex  are  best,  and  always  as  new  as  it  is  possible  to  obtain. 

Hops  remain  very  good,  however,  for  two  years,  then  they  begin  to 
decay  and  lose  their  flavour,  unless  great  quantities  are  kept  together,  in 
which  case  they  preserve  it  much  longer. 

They  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place. 

Hops  which  have  grown  stale,  and  lost  their  natural  bitterness,  can 
be  renovated  by  unbagging  them,  and  sprinkling  them  with  aloes  and 
water. 

Water. 

The  quality  of  the  water  used  in  brewing  is  of  the  greatest  impor- 
tance. 

Experience  has  proved  that  the  best  water  for  brewing  is  softandpure 
river  water,  or  that  of  a  stream  running  over  a  chalky  or  gravelly  bottom. 
Rivers  exposed  to  the  beneficial  influences  of  sunshine  and  air,  and  not 
polluted  by  drainage,  make  the  best  ale ;  the  reason  perhaps  why  some 


2  7  °  The  Process  of  Brewing. 

particular  localities,  such  as  Stoke-upon-Trent,  Burton,  &c,  have  become 
famous  for  it. 

Hard  water  astringes  the  power  of  the  malt,  and  consequently  requires 
a  much  larger  quantity  to  be  used  than  soft  water  does. 

Chalky  water  also  produces  good  ale,  for  which  Dorchester  used  last 
century  to  be  famed. 

If,  however,  nothing  but  hard  water  can  be  obtained,  it  may  be  in  a 
degree  softened  by  exposure  to  the  air  and  sun,  and  putting  some  pieces 
of  chalk  to  intuse  into  it ;  or,  when  the  water  is  set  to  boil,  a  quantity  of 
bran  should  be  put  into  the  copper  with  it,  which  will  take  off  part  of  its 
hardness,  and  make  it  better  extract  the  virtues  of  the  malt. 

Brown  malt  will  bear  a  coarse  river  water,  it  is  said,  like  that  of  the 
Thames  about  London,  but  it  will  not  keep  more  than  six  months  good. 

Yeast  should  be  good,  fresh,  and  white ;  bad  yeast  will  spoil  good 
beer. 

The  brewer  should  be  careful  to  have  every  article  required  for  brewing 
ready  before  he  begins,  as,  if  the  wort  waits  for  anything  that  should  be 
immediately  at  hand,  it  will  be  injured, 


The  Prooess  of  Brewing. 

We  give  our  readers  now  the  process  of  brewing,  as  carried  on  in  the 
writers  tamily  very  many  years  ago — when,  in  fact,  George  III.  was  king 
— and  which  produced  a  home-brewed  ale  rarely  equalled  then,  and  cer- 
tainly not  surpassed  now  : — 

"  First,  the  utensils,"  says  the  old  receipt,  "  must  be  properly  cleansed 
and  scalded  the  day  before.  The  malt  should  be  ground  a  week — if 
brown  malt,  a  fortnight — previously.  The  water  in  the  copper  must  then 
be  made  boiling.  The  season  for  brewing  should  be  March  if  you  desire 
the  ale  or  beer  to  keep  well.  For  the  air  at  that  time  is  temperate,  and 
contributes  to  the  good  working  or  fermentation  of  the  liquor,  which 
principally  promotes  its  preservation  and  good  keeping. 

"  Very  cold  as  well  as  very  hot  weather  prevents  the  free  fermentation 
of  liquors,  for  if  you  brew  in  very  cold  weather,  unless  you  use  some 
artificial  means  to  warm  the  cellar  while  the  liquor  is  working,  it  will  never 
clear  itself  properly,  and  extreme  heat  will  prove  equally  detrimental. 
The  beer  will  be  muddy  and  sour,  and  often  past  recovery. 

"  A  damp  cellar  also  affects  beer  ;  the  liquor  will  chill  in  it  and  become 
vapid  or  flat. 

"  Beer  is  therefore  better  brewed  in  March,  for  it  will  then  have  time  to 
settle  before  the  winter.  October  is  also  a  good  brewing  season,  if  the 
cellars  are  known  to  be  dry  and  temperate  with  regard  to  cold  or  heat. 

"  All  cellars  for  keeping  liquors  should  be  so  contrived  that  no  external 
air  can  get  freely  to  them  ;  the  variation  of  the  temperature  of  the  air  will 
affect  the  liquors  and  render  them  unfit  for  working. 

"  A  constant  temperate  air  softens  malt  liquors. 

"And  now  we  come  to  the  process  of  mashing  the  malt,  to  extract  from 
it  its  saccharine  matter.  The  exact  heat  of  the  water  is  of  the  first  im- 
portance.    If  too  near  the  boiling  point  it  will  set  the  flour  of  the  malt 


Quantities  required  for  making  Different  Beers.  271 


and  turn  it  into  paste,  instead  of  extracting  the  goodness  ;  if  too  cool  the 
wort  will  be  without  strength,  a  certain  amount  of  heat  being  required  to 
extract  the  sugar." 

And  now  comes  in  the  modern  use  of  the  thermometer.  Our  old 
housewife  informs  us  that  the  boiling  water  must  be  poured  into  the  mash- 
tub,  and  the  steam  "  suffered  to  go  off,  till  the  person  brewing  can  see  his 
or  her  shadow  in  the  water."  We  have  a  more  sure  test  ;  and  in  the  fol- 
lowing table  we  will  show  by  the  thermometer  the  right  temperature  of 
the  water.  At  the  same  time  we  may  observe,  that  three  parts  of  boiling 
water  to  one  part  of  cold  is  about  right,  and  the  old  fashion  of  looking  at 
the  shadow  will  then  be  justified. 

Table  of  Temperature  of  Water  used  in  Mashing.     To  be  Tested 
by  Thermometer. 

First  mash    .    .    .     170°  Second  mash    .    .    .     1800 

Third  mash  (boiling  water). 

Quantities  required  for  making  Different  Beers* 

For  2  Hogsheads  of  Strong  Ale : 

24  bushels  of  malt.  24  lbs.  of  good  hops. 

4  quarts  of  barm,  or  yeast. 
Water  to  quantity  of  2  hogsheads,  by  filling  up  as  described. 

To  brew  54  Gallons  of  Strong  Ale  : 

10  bushels  of  malt.  10  lbs.  of  hops. 

Water  to  make  up  54  gallons. 

Bitter  Ale. 

One  Hogshead  : 

4  bushels  of  pale  malt.  8  lbs.  of  hops. 

Water  to  make  up  hogshead. 

Table  Beer, 
When  not  made  from  second  mash,  but  brewed  at  once. 

54  Gallons  : 
4  bushels  of  malt.  3  or  4  lbs.  of  Farnham  hops. 

Harvest  Small  Beer,  to  keep  a  week, 

54  Gallons  : 
3  bushels  of  malt.  4  lbs.  of  hops. 

12  Gallons  of  good  Beer  : 
1  bushel  of  malt.  1  lb.  of  hops. 


272  Preparation  for  Brewing, 

3  Gallons  of  Ale  : 

1  quart  of  malt.  8  lbs.  of  hops. 

5  barrels  (of  36  gallons  each)  of  water. 

The  last  Receipt  from  South  Kensington  Food  Catalogue. 

Preparation  for  Brewing. 

Cleanse  the  casks  ;  if  quite  new  scald  and  soak  them  for  several 
days  with  a  hot  brine  of  salt  and  water;  then  put  in  them  some  spent 
hops  and  water  with  a  little  yeast  and  leave  it  to  slightly  ferment:  old 
casks  must  be  carefully  cleaned  as  previously  directed. 

Fill  the  copper  with  soft  water  over  night,  and  light  and  damp  down 
the  copper  fire  so  that  it  may  be  in  readiness  next  morning.  Place  your 
utensils. 

Lean  the  mash  tub  a  little  on  one  side  ;  mix  the  boiling  with  cold 
water  till  it  is  of  the  proper  temperature  by  thermometer  {see  last  page). 
Then  let  another  person  gently  put  in  the  malt,  while  you  constantly  stir 
it.     It  requires  stixringfrom  the  first. 

When  the  mash  gets  thick  and  is  difficult  to  stir,  add  more  water, 
stirring  it  continually. 

Leave  out  a  portion  of  dry  malt  to  cover  the  mash,  and  when  it  is 
wholly  wet  and  soaked,  cover  this  dry  malt  over  it,  to  prevent  evaporation. 
Then  cover  the  mash  tub  closely  with  sacks,  and  leave  it  to  steep.  In  the 
course  of  mashing,  great  care  must  be  taken  that  the  mash  is  thoroughly 
stirred  with  the  oar  from  the  bottom.  Particular  attention  must  be  paid 
to  the  time  of  steeping  the  mashes.  Strong  beer  must  be  allowed  three, 
or  at  least,  two  hours  ;  ale,  one  hour ;  and  if  small  beer  is  drawn  after- 
wards, half  an  hour. 

Before  the  mash  is  let  run,  a  pail  must  be  prepared  to  catch  the  first 
flush,  as  it  is  generally  thickish  ;  another  pail  must  be  ready  to  receive 
the  drain  while  the  first  thick  running  is  returned  to  the  malt.  This  is 
repeated  till  the  wort  runs  quite  clear. 

The  first  mash  seldom  runs  off  more  than  half  the  quantity  of  liquor. 
It  is  necessary  therefore  to  pour  the  same  quantity  of  water  over  it 
again,  and  this  is  done  with  a  watering-pot,  so  that  the  water  may  not 
drain  too  fast  through  the  malt.  It  is  called  "  sparging."  The  water 
poured  in  should  be  of  1800  to  1850,  according  to  the  weather.  As  soon 
as  the  wort  for  the  strong  beer  has  been  all  drawn  off,  it  must  be  put, 
with  half  the  hops  (previously  soaked  in  water  taken  from  the  first  mash), 
into  the  wort  copper  to  boil.  While  mashing  the  first  malt,  fill  up  the 
copper  with  water  and  make  it  boil  ready  for  the  second  mash.  When 
the  second  mash  begins,  water  at  1800  is  poured  over  the  malt ;  it  stands 
again  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  and  is  drawn  off  like  the  first,  returning 
the  wort  to  the  tub  till  it  runs  clear. 

But  meantime  we  must  return  to  the  strong  ale  in  the  second  copper. 

Quick  boiling  is  essential,  though  not  too  quick. 

In  order  to  ascertain  the  proper  time  the  liquor  should  boil,  try  it 
occasionally  in  a  glass  ;  when  it  breaks  into  flakes  and  the  hops  sink  to 
the  bottom,  it  is  ready. 


Fermentation.    '  273 


It  must  not  be  over-boiled,  or  it  will  not  fine  in  the  casks. 

Essence  of  malt  is  extracted  by  length  of  boiling,  by  which  the  wort 
can  be  made  of  the  thickness  of  honey  or  treacle.  If  the  wort  remains 
too  long  in  the  underback  after  drawing  off,  it  is  apt  to  become  "foxy" 
or  sour.  The  average  time  for  boiling  the  first  wort  is  about  an  hour 
and  a  half ;  for  the  wort  from  the  second  mash  two  hours  or  two  hours 
and  a  half,  and  for  the  third,  or  small  beer  mash,  three  hours  at  least. 
The  hops  of  the  first  wort,  when  strained,  are  returned  into  the  copper 
again,  with  some  fresh  ones  added  for  the  second  mash  beer. 

When  the  wort  is  intended  to  be  boiled  for  more  than  an  hour,  it  is 
best  not  to  add  the  hops  until  an  hour  of  the  time  when  it  is  to  be  cooled, 
as  the  aroma  is  to  a  certain  extent  lost  in  the  boiling. 

The  hops  which  are  not  squeezed  retain  about  two  quarts  of  wort  to 
every  pound,  which,  with  the  loss  in  evaporation,  must  be  allowed  for  in 
the  quantity  brewed. 

The  wort  when  sufficiently  boiled  is  strained  into  the  coolers,  and 
should  not  be  more  than  three  or  four  inches  deep  in  them,  except  in 
winter,  rapid  cooling  being  very  essential,  as  otherwise  the  wort  may 
turn  sour. 

While  drawing  off  the  first  wort,  keep  the  copper  well  stirred,  that  the 
hops  may  not  burn  on  to  the  bottom. 

The  third  mash  is  managed  much  as  the  second,  but  as  less  saccha- 
rine matter  will  remain  in  the  beer,  it  is  usual  to  add  to  the  wort  one  or 
two  pounds  of  sugar  to  eighteen  gallons,  according  to  the  need  of  the 
beer. 

When  the  brewing  is  confined  to  one  quality  of  beer  only,  the  process 
is  the  same,  except  that  the  whole  qtiantity  is  run  through  the  malt,  more 
water  being  added  gradually,  and  constantly  stirred  and  mixed  together 
before  hopping  and  boiling.     This  beer  is  called  "  Entire." 

The  malt  left  after  brewing  is  called  brewers'  grains. 

Fermentation. 

The  principal  points  to  be  taken  into  consideration  in  the  fermentation 
of  beer,  is  the  weather,  the  yeast,  and  the  proper  performance  of 
mashing. 

If  the  weather  is  thundery,  it  is  likely  to  promote  acetic  fermentation. 
Warm  weather  accelerates  fermentation,  cold  weather  delays  it. 

The  yeast,  if  bad,  will  obstruct  the  proper  fermentation. 

If  the  mashes  have  been  made  with  too  cool  liquors,  fermentation  is 
difficult,  and  the  wort  impoverished  ;  while  if  the  liquor  used  for  mashing 
was  too  hot,  it  will  take  some  time  to  cure  it  by  fermentation,  or  it  will  be 
"  ropy." 

The  state  of  the  fermentation  will  soon  show  any  of  these  faults.  If 
the  liquor  was  too  hot,  the  air  bladders  on  the  head  of  the  wort  will  be  as 
large  as  a  pennypiece.  If  it  was  too  cool  there  will  be  few  bladders,  and 
they  will  be  small. 

The  proper  temperature  of  the  wort,  when  the  yeast  is  put  to  it,  de- 
pends on  the  season  of  the  year.  In  summer  the  wort  cannot  be  too  cool, 
in  winter  it  may  be  as  hot  as  650,  700,  or  750  P'ahrenheit. 

T 


274  Fermentation . 


The  temperature  of  the  place  in  which  the  ale  is  to  ferment  must  be 
also  considered,  and  directed  by  the  thermometer. 

Small  brewings  require  more  heat  than  larger  ones  ;  and  if  the  outer 
temperature  be  very  high,  the  inner  must  be  kept  below  it.  Cold 
draughts  also  must  be  avoided,  as  they  draw  off  the  carbonic  acid  gas. 
More  yeast  is  required  for  termentation  in  cold  weather  than  in  warm  ; 
at  least  a  quarter  less  will  be  required  in  summer. 

The  method  of  mixing  the  yeast  is  this  :  Say  the  wort  is  by  thermo- 
meter 6o° ;  take  a  pound  of  yeast  to  two  quarts  of  wort,  stir  them  well 
together  and  place  them  near  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  till  they  begin  to 
ferment ;  then  pour  the  whole  into  the  fermenting  cask,  and  stir  it  up  with 
the  oar. 

The  first  sign  of  fermentation  is  a  thin  white  line  round  the  side  of 
the  tun,  which  gradually  creams  over  the  surface.  By  and  by  a  singing 
sound  is  heard  from  the  gas  bubbles  as  they  rise  to  the  surface ;  by 
degrees  the  creamy  head,  growing  thicker  and  thicker,  takes  the  appear- 
ance of  a  cauliflower.  At  first  it  is  white,  then  yellow,  then  brownish- 
yellow.  If  the  head  is  in  broad  flat  flakes,  something  is  wrong,  or  if  the 
air  bubbles  are  of  a  bluish-white. 

When  no  cauliflower  head  appears,  the  wort  is  said  to  be  unsound, 
and  "to  boil."  The  cauliflower  head,  when  there,  grows  higher,  denser, 
and  closer ;  the  bubbles  melt  into  each  other  and  grow  larger,  till  the 
head,  from  which  they  gradually  break  and  sink,  becomes  a  close  brownish 
mass,  and  is  skimmed  off  as  soon  as  it  shows  a  tendency  to  sink.  If  it 
tell  in,  the  beer  would  be  bitter. 

Fermentation  should  be  gradual,  not  too  quick. 

It  it  does  not  begin  in  four  or  five  hours,  add  a  little  more  yeast, 
stirring  well  together. 

After  skimming,  take  a  handful  of  flour  and  a  handful  oi  salt,  warm 
them  by  the  fire  and  sprinkle  them  over  the  top  of  the  fermenting  wort; 
give  the  whole  a  good  stirring  and  immediately  fill  the  barrels,  which 
must  be  dry  and  warm. 

The  stillions  or  tubs  under  the  barrels  will  receive  the  yeast  as  it 
runs  over  from  them.* 

Fill  up  the  barrels  every  three  hours  for  a  day  or  two.  In  four  or  five 
days  the  ale  will  have  cleared  itseli  of  the  yeast. 

It  must  then  stand  till  the  vinous  fermentation  is  finished.  This  may 
be  known  by  the  yeast  at  the  bunghole  turning  brown  and  full  of  holes. 
When  this  appearance  is  detected,  the  barrels  should  be  tightly  bunged. 
In  three  weeks  table-beer,  and  in  two  or  three  months  the  ale  will  be  fit 
for  use,  according  to  its  strength. 


*  The  old-lashioned  system  was  to  skim  off  the  top  barm,  then  fill  the  casks 
quite  lull,  and  immediately  bung  and  peg  them  close.  Then  a  hole  was  bored 
with  a  tap-borer  near  the  summit  of  the  stave,  at  the  same  distance  from  the  top 
as  the  lower  taphole  is  from  the  bottom,  for  working  through  that  upper  hole, 
which  is  a  clean  and  more  effectual  method  than  working  it  over  the  cask  ;  for 
being  thus  closely  confined  it  soon  sets  itseli  into  a  convulsive  motion  oi  working, 
and  forces  itself  fine,  provided  the  casks  are  filled  up  five  or  six  times  a  day. 


275 


Proper  Management  of  the  Beer  Cellar. 

In  order  to  keep  strong  beer  in  a  proper  state  of  preservation,  re- 
member that  when  once  the  vessel  is  broached  regard  must  be  paid  to 
the  time  in  which  it  may  be  finished.  If  it  is  likely  to  be  drunk  up 
quickly,  it  will  last  good  to  the  end,  but  if  the  draught  is  slow,  it  is  best 
not  to  draw  off  quite  half  before  bottling"  the  rest,  otherwise  it  will  grow 
flat,  dead,  and  sour. 

In  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  liquor  in  a  cask,  it  will  be  a  shorter  or 
longer  time  ripening.  A  vessel  which  contains  two  hogsheads  of  beer 
will  require  twice  the  time  of  one  that  contains  only  one  hogshead  to  per- 
fect itself,  and  it  is  found  by  experience  that  it  is  wise  for  those  who  are 
able,  to  brew  a  hogshead  at  once,  instead  of  a  less  quantity,  as  the  whole 
hogshead,  if  it  be  tit  to  draw  in  a  year,  will  have  body  enough  to  keep  it 
good  for  two,  three,  or  four  years,  provided  it  has  a  sufficient  strength  of 
malt  and  hops. 

In  order  to  fine  beer,  some  people  who  brew  with  high-dried  barley 
malt  put  a  bag  containing  about  three  pints  of  wheat  into  every  hogshead 
of  liquor,  which  will  fine  it  and  make  the  beer  drink  soft  and  mellow.  Or 
three  pints  of  wheat  malt  in  a  bag,  put  into  a  hogshead,  will  have  the 
same  effect. 

"  But  all  malt  liquors,  however  well  they  may  be  brewed,  may  be  spoiled 
by  bad  cellaring,  which  will  sometimes  make  them  ferment  in  the  cask, 
and  occasionally  turn  them  thick  and  sour.  When  this  occurs,  the  best  way 
to  restore  the  liquor  is  to  open  the  bunghole  of  the  cask  for  two  or  three 
days,  and  if  that  does  not  stop  the  fermentation,  to  put  in  two  or  three 
pounds  of  oystershells — first  washed,  dried  well  in  an  oven,  and  then 
beaten  to  a  fine  powder.  After  putting  them  in  the  liquor  must  be  stirred 
a  little,  and  it  will  soon  settle  fine,  and  lose  its  sharp  taste. 

"  If  this,  however,  does  not  prove  effectual,  draw  the  liquor  off  into 
another  vessel,  and  suspend  in  it  a  small  bag  of  wheat  or  wheat-malt  in 
proportion  to  the  size  of  the  barrel." 

"It  will  sometimes  happen  that  such  fermentation  takes  place  from  a 
change  of  weather.  If  the  cellar  is  no*  bad,  nothing  need  be  done  then ; 
in  a  few  months  it  will  fine  of  itself  and  grow  mellow." 

In  some  old-fashioned  country-houses  it  is  the  practice  to  dip  whisks 
into  yeast,  then  beat  it  well,  and  hang  up  the  whisks  with  the  yeast  on 
them  to  dry.  The  beating  and  stirring  one  of  these  whisks  in  new  wort 
will  soon  raise  a  fermentation.  It  is  really  better  to  work  the  wort  well 
in  the  tun  before  putting  it  into  the  barrels.  Some  beat  the  yeast  down 
very  often  while  it  is  in  the  tun,  and  keep  it  there  working  two  or  three 
days,  observing  to  put  it  into  the  barrel /z«tf  when  the  yeast  begins  to  fall. 
This  liquor  is  in  general  very  fine  ;  while,  on  the  contrary,  that  which  is 
put  into  the  barrel  soon  after  it  is  brewed  will  be  several  months  before  it 
comes  to  a  state  of  perfection. 

With  respect  to  the  management  of  small  beer,  the  first  consideration 
should  be  to  make  it  tolerably  good  in  quality,  which  will  always  be  found 
truly  economical,  as  it  will  keep  better  and  nourish  the  servants  more, 
It  is  a  known  fact  that  beer  saves  butcher's  meatj  a  consideration  in  these 

T    2 


2  7  6  Fining  with  Isinglass — Racking  Beer. 

days  of  high  prices  for  it.  Servants  who  do  not  drink  beer  require  more 
animal  food. 

It  is  advisable,  where  there  is  good  cellarage,  to  brew  a  stock  of  table 
beer  in  March  or  October,  or  both  months  if  possible,  in  hogsheads.  The 
beer  brewed  in  March  should  not  be  tapped  till  October,  and  that  brewed 
in  October  should  be  tapped  in  March. 

It  may  be  as  well  to  observe  that,  if  the  cellars  are  so  situated  as  to  be 
exposed  to  great  heat,  the  October  brewing  will  be  best;  for  then  the 
liquor  will  have  time  to  digest  before  the  warm  weather  comes. 

If  the  cellars  are  damp  and  chilly,  March  is  the  best  month  to  brew 
in.  Some  experienced  householders  use  the  pale  malt  in  March  and  the 
brown  in  October,  supposing  that  the  pale  malt,  being  then  made  with  a 
less  degree  of  heat  than  the  brown,  will  ripen  better  in  summer  ;  and  that 
the  brown,  which  has  been  made  with  greater  heat,  can  better  stand  the 
winter.     But  this  is  a  mere  matter  of  opinion. 

The  temperature  of  the  cellar  should  be  tested  by  a  thermometer  hung 
up  in  it.     The  height  should  be  about  55 °  Fahrenheit. 

Fining  with  Isinglass. 

When  beer  is  required  to  become  fine,  before  it  has  worked  itself  so, 
or  if  it  does  not  do  so  in  proper  time,  isinglass  is  used  to  assist  it ;  and  this 
is  better  than  the  wheat  bag,  if  it  can  be  afforded. 

The  mixture  made  with  it  is  called  "  finings." 

The  proportion  is  one  ounce  of  isinglass  to  a  barrel,  on  an  average. 

Dissolve  it  in  sour  beer  till  it  is  as  thick  as  treacle  ;  strain  it  through 
a  piece  of  canvas  ;  then  put  a  little  more  beer  till  it  is  about  as  thick  as 
cream. 

Draw  out  a  pail  of  beer  and  add  the  finings,  whisk  the  whole  to  a 
head,  then  pour  it  through  a  funnel  into  the  bunghole.  Make  room  for  it 
by  previously  drawing  out  another  pailful  of  beer.  Then  well  stir  the  ale ; 
pour  back  the  last  drawn  pailful,  and  replace  the  bung  when  the  bubbles 
are  gone  down. 

Try  it  in  a  week  or  ten  days.  If  then  it  is  not  clear,  add  "  half  a 
pound  of  salt  to  a  hogshead,"  or  "  two  ounces  to  the  hogshead  of  alum  or 
quicklime." 

"  Ropiness"  requires  to  cure  it  more  yeast  and  a  second  fermentation ; 
adding  the  wheat  bag. 

Racking  Beer. 

Racking  is  drawing  off  beer  from  the  large  casks  into  small  ones,  for 
use.  Whenever  this  is  done  be  sure  to  empty  the  large  cask  into 
several  smaller  ones,  or  it  will  get  flat,  from  the  air  filling  the  empty  upper 
part.  Add  a  few  hops  to  each  cask.  Rack  in  a  small  stream,  and  do  not 
leave  a  large  space  between  the  cask  and  tun  as  you  draw  it  off. 

Wlien  a  small  cask  is  opened  for  use,  and  gets  flat,  add  a  little  new 
beer  to  it ;  or  make  a  paste  of  wheat  flour  and  treacle,  and  drop  it  into 
the  cask  to  recover  it. 


Bottling  Beer — Choosing  Corks.  277 


Stout. 

Quantities  for  one  Hogshead  : 

1  quarter  of  pale  malt.  2  bushels  of  brown  malt. 

Three-quarters  of  a  bushel  of  blown  malt.  8  lbs.  of  hops. 

Made  as  all  other  beer. 

Porter, 

Porter  may  be  made  from  the  second  mash  of  stout  by  adding  18  lbs. 
of  treacle  to  it — thus  36  gallons  of  porter  may  be  obtained.  The  best 
hop  for  porter  is  the  Humulus  Germanicus. 

Porter  Brewed  as  u  Entire  T 

Half  a  quarter  of  pale  malt.  1  bushel  of  brown  malt. 

Haifa  bushel  of  blown  malt.  4  lbs.  of  hops. 

Brew  stout  and  porter  by  the  general  rules  for  brewing.  Porter  owes 
much  of  its  flavour  to  a  high  and  rapid  fermentation. 

Bottling  Beer. 

The  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  see  that  the  bottles  are  very  clean,  and 
very  dry.  Wet  bottles  will  turn  the  beer  mouldy,  or  "  mothery,"  as  it  is 
called. 

Next  the  corks  must  be  new  and  sound  ;  for  if  the  air  can  get  through 
them  the  ale  will  be  flat  and  never  rise.  There  is  no  saving,  but  great 
waste  in  using  old  corks. 

If  a  cork  has  once  been  in  a  bottle,  even  though  it  has  not  been  drawn 
by  a  corkscrew,  it  will  turn  musty  as  soon  as  exposed  to  the  air,  and  will 
communicate  its  evil  flavour  to  the  bottle  it  is  next  put  into. 

Choosing  Corks. 

Take  those  which  are  soft  and  clear  from  specks. 

Observe  in  bottling  that  the  top  and  middle  of  the  hogshead  are  the 
strongest  and  will  sooner  rise  in  the  bottles  than  the  bottom. 

When  you  begin  bottling  go  on.  If  you  leave  your  task  uncompleted 
and  continue  it  at  intervals  each  bottle  will  have  a  different  taste. 

If  the  cask  of  beer  you  have  in  use  grows  flat,  bottle  the  beer  ;  but 
nto  every  bottle  put  two  or  three  lumps  of  sugar,  about  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  out  it  is  best  to  bottle  beer  before  it  has  quite  completed  its 
fermentation. 

If  you  brew  table  beer  in  March  or  October,  some  of  it  may  be 
bottled  at  the  end  of  six  months,  putting  in  every  bottle  a  lump  of  sugar  ; 
but  if  you  want  good  bottled  beer,  bottle  it  as  soon  as  it  has  done 
working. 

Beer  should  never,  however,  be  bottled  while  there  is  any  tendency  to 
spirt  from  the  vent  peg ;  but  as  soon  as  this  has  ceased,  bottle  at  once. 


zj8  To  Preserve  Yeast  for  Breiving. 


For  the  flat  beer  of  an  open  cask  you  had  better  put  into  the  bottle 
either  the  sugar  (as  before  directed)  or  a  few  raisins  or  grains  of  rice. 

If  you  find  it  impossible  to  keep  your  bottled  beer  in  your  cellars  from 
some  defect  in  the  latter,  you  might  try  the  following  expedient. 

Sink  holes  in  the  garden,  purchase  and  put  in  the  holes  some  large 
oil  jars,  and  fill  the  earth  close  to  their  sides.  One  jar  will  hold  a  dozen 
bottles  of  beer,  and  will  keep  them  well ;  but  you  must  take  care  to  closely 
cover  the  tops  of  the  jars. 

In  the  winter,  when  the  weather  is  frosty,  shut  up  all  the  lights  or 
windows  of  your  cellar  (if  it  has  any),  and  close  them  with  manure  to 
keep  the  proper  temperature  (550)  up. 

To  Preserve  Yeast  for  Brewing. 

When  you  have  plenty  of  yeast,  take  a  quantity  of  it,  stir  and  work  it 
well  with  a  whisk  until  it  becomes  liquid  and  thin.  Then  get  a  clean 
deal  board,  and  with  a  soft  brush  lay  a  thin  layer  of  yeast  on  it.  Turn 
it  downwards  over  a  tub  or  pan  to  keep  it  from  dust  and  let  it  dry. 

When  that  coat  is  dry  lay  on  another,  and  let  it  also  dry ;  adding  layer 
after  layer,  as  they  dry,  till  you  have  as  much  as  you  wish.  This  dried 
yeast  will  keep  for  several  months. 

When  you  want  to  use  it,  cut  off  a  piece  and  lay  it  in  warm  water,  then 
stir  it  well  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

If  it  is  for  brewing,  take  a  handful  of  birch  tied  together,  dip  it  in  the 
yeast,  and  let  it  hang  up  to  dry.  You  can  make  as  many  whisks  as  you 
please,  but  they  must  be  kept  carefully  from  dust. 

When  the  beer  is  set  to  work,  throw  in  one  of  these,  and  it  will  act  as 
well  in  promoting  fermentation  as  fresh  yeast. 

"  In  brewing,  one  barrel,  or  thirty-six  gallons,  is  lost  by  evaporation  ; 
half  a  barrel,  or  eighteen  gallons,  by  fermentation  and  racking  ;  and  half  a 
barrel  is  absorbed  by  the  grains." — South  Kensington  Museum  Food 
Catalogue. 

Many  things  besides  malt  are  used  for  inferior  beers,  such  as  potatoes, 
beans,  turnips,  and  other  starchy  foods.  In  Russia  a  beer  is  made  from 
rye  called  Quass. 

The  Tartars  and  Turks  make  a  beer  from  mare's  milk,  called  Koumis. 

In  South  America  a  beer  called  Chica  is  made  from  maize. 

In  Africa  beer  is  made  from  an  infusion  and  fermentation  of  millet- 
seeds. 

Beer  is  adulterated  with  salt,  capsicums,  &c,  but  not  very  generally. 
Publicans  are  said  to  put  in  salt  to  make  their  customers  thirsty.  Grains 
of  paradise  are  also  added  sometimes. 

The  householder  will  do  wisely  to  avoid  buying  beer  at  public-houses, 
but  have  it  in  barrels  in  the  house,  from  the  best  breweries  — Ind  and 
Coope's,  Allsopp's,  Bass's,  &c. — if  he  does  not  brew  at  home. 

Ind  and  Coope  sell  nine-gallon  casks,  which  are  more  convenient  for 
small  families  ;  they  allow  a  good  discount  for  ready  money. 

The  brewer's  men  are  obliged,  if  required,  to  test  the  quantity  in  each 
cask  delivered,  to  show  that  it  is  full ;  and  on  any  complaints  from  the 


Cider. 


279 


servants,  or  unaccountable  ending  of  a  cask  of  beer,  it  is  well  to  exact  this 
proof  from  them. 

Beer  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  but  not  too  hot. 

The  adulteration  of  beer  with  caramel  (burnt  sugar)  may  be  detected 
by  adding  a  little  tannic  acid,  which,  if  the  beer  is  pure,  will  bleach  it 
directly.    On  the  burnt  sugar-coloured  beer  it  has  no  effect. 


CIDER. 

Cider  is  a  spirit  distilled  from  the  expressed  juice  of  apples. 

The  best  apples  for  cider  are  not  those  used  at  dessert,  or  for  cooking, 
but  rough  apples  which  have  a  light  colour  with  a  maze  of  red  streaks  on 
the  sunny  side. 

The  apples  used  for  cider  must  be  thoroughly  ripe,  or  the  cider  will  be 
harsh,  rough,  and  unpleasant.  The  branches  of  the  orchard  trees  are 
shaken,  and  the  perfectly  ripe  fruit  falls  ;  the  rest  is  gathered  when 
ready  ;  the  last  ripe  is  used  for  inferior  cider. 

The  fruit  should  be  separated ;  as  the  yellow  apple  mixed  with  red,  or 
all  yellow,  is  the  one  to  use  for  the  best  cider  ;  the  green  apples  make  an 
inferior  kind.  Each  sort  must  be  collected  separately,  and  kept  till 
mellow.  This  is  done  by  piling  the  apples  in  heaps  about  a  foot  high, 
and  exposing  them  to  the  sun  and  air.  As  the  fruit  matures,  it  gets 
of  a  deeper  yellow.  Every  heap  is  examined  before  grinding,  and  the 
decayed  or  green  fruit  is  removed. 

The  fruit,  when  ready,  is  placed  in  a  circular  stone  trough  with  a 
bruising-stone,  or  in  an  apple-mill.  In  the  trough  the  apples  are  crushed  by 
the  stone,  put  in  motion  by  a  horse,  and  this  way  is  thought  in  Devon- 
shire the  best,  as  the  acids  of  the  apple  or  pear,  acting  on  the  metal  of 
the  iron  cider  mill,  produce  a  disagreeable  taste,  and  a  brown  colour.  The 
trough  stands  in  a  shed,  roofed,  but  open  at  the  sides  so  that  a  draught 
of  air  may  pass  over  it. 

The  mess  produced  by  the  grinding  is  called  pommage.  This  pom- 
mage is  removed,  as  it  is  ready,  to  the  press,  so  that  part  is  pressed  while 
the  rest  is  grinding,  though  some  persons  think  it  ought  to  remain 
twenty-four  hours  in  the  trough  before  it  is  taken  to  the  press.  Hair 
cloths  are  spread,  and  the  pommage  in  large  cakes  is  laid  in  the  press 
with  perfect  evenness.  Upon  the  whole  a  strong  board  is  placed,  wider 
than  the  pile  on  which  the  blocks  rest. 

The  hair  cloths  must  be  perfectly  clean  and  fresh,  or  they  will  com- 
municate a  bad  taste  to  the  cider. 

The  cakes  are  then  squeezed  by  lowering  the  screw  of  the  press,  and 
increasing  the  pressure  as  the  cakes  become  drier,  till  the  must  or  juice 
is  quite  squeezed  out.  This  is  completed  by  the  long  lever  and  windlass. 
The  juice  is  received  in  a  tub. 

It  is  then  strained  through  a  coarse  hair  sieve  into  the  fermenting 
vats  or  casks— generally  into  the  casks.  The  juice  of  the  apple  before 
fermentation  consists  of  sugar,  mucilage,  acid,  water,  essential  oil,  and 
astringent  matter. 

Of  these  constituents  only  sugar  produces  ardent  spirits. 


2  So  Cider. 

The  ciderists  of  Herefordshire  attribute  much  of  the  strength  of  cider 
to  the  rind  and  kernels,  and  are  particular  in  grinding  them  with  the 
pulp. 

Fermentation  of  apple  juice  should  not  be  conducted  with  too  much 
heat,  or  the  fermentation  would  be  too  rapid  ;  neither  must  the  tempera- 
ture be  too  low.  The  degree  of  heat  should  be  between  400  and  500 
Fahrenheit. 

Cider  ferments  with  a  violent  ebullition  ;  the  bubbles  rise  and  form  a 
scum  or  crust  over  the  surface  of  the  liquor  ;  the  ascent  of  additional 
fixed  air  breaks  this  crust ;  another  is  formed  and  again  broken,  and  thus 
it  proceeds  till  the  ebullition  gradually  ceases,  and  the  fermentation  is  less 
brisk.  If  then  a  hissing  sound  is  heard  in  the  liquor  the  room  is  too 
warm,  and  the  external  air  must  be  admitted. 

All  fermentation  must  be  stopped  as  soon  as  the  liquor  is  clear.  To 
do  this  it  must  be  racked  off  into  open  vessels,  and  kept  cool  for  a  day 
or  two. 

Then  it  must  be  barrelled  and  stored  in  a  cool  place  for  winter.  In 
Herefordshire  the  casks  are  placed  in  open  sheds  for  the  winter,  and 
early  in  spring  racked  again,  and  put  into  the  cellar. 

The  cider  must  be  racked  in  a  small  stream  and  the  receiving  tub 
must  be  close  to  the  tap,  to  avoid  another  fermentation. 

Cider  casks  should  be  thoroughly  clean  and  dry  when  filled,  and  they 
should  not  be  filled  within  a  gallon  or  two.  The  casks  should  be  filled  up 
every  two  or  three  weeks,  to  supply  the  waste  by  insensible  fermentation, 
until  the  beginning  of  the  next  March. 

If  the  cider  should  be  dull  it  may  be  improved  by  putting  lump  sugar 
into  it — two  pounds  to  one  hogshead. 

If  the  colour  be  bad  a  little  essentia  vina  will  give  it  any  tint  it 
may  require. 

Cider  should  be  bottled  in  April,  when  the  barometer  is  high  and  the 
wind  northerly.  It  must  be  strongly  corked  and  waxed  over,  and  secured 
with  small  string  or  wire. 

It  is  said  that  half  a  hogshead  of  cider  may  be  expected  from  one  well- 
covered  apple  tree. 


28i 


DAILY  DUTIES  OF  THE  HOUSE-MOTHER, 


FEEDING  THE  FAMILY. 

Having  attained  some  knowledge  of  the  constituent  parts,  prices,  and 
season  for  different  kinds  of  food,  the  house-mother  will  have  less  diffi- 
culty in  arranging  the  daily  bill  of  fare. 

She  should  visit  the  kitchen  to  give  the  cook  her  orders,  directly  after 
breakfast— or  before  that  meal,  if  it  be  habitually  a  late  one.  The  reason 
for  making  the  hour  early  is,  that  much  hindrance  is  put  in  the  way  of 
the  cook  if  it  is  late,  and  also  that  tradesmen  generally  call  early  for 
orders. 

The  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  inspect  the  larder  thoroughly.  It  will 
contain,  doubtless,  cold  meat,  suet,  dripping,  butter,  cheese,  eggs,  etc., 
and  the  breadpan.  This  last  should  be  uncovered  and  examined,  for 
servants  are  apt  to  be  neglectful  and  wasteful  with  regard  to  bread.  No 
unnecessary  pieces  should  be  found  in  it.  Only  the  crusts  from  having 
grated  bread  for  puddings,  cutlets,  etc.  are  allowable.  If  these  exist 
they  should  be  soaked,  beaten  up  with  an  egg,  a  little  milk,  and  a  few 
currants,  and  baked  as  a  pudding — a  very  good  one  it  is.  Bread  should 
never  be  used  up  to  the  last  loaf,  so  that  the  household  are  obliged  to  eat 
new  bread,  which  is  not  as  wholesome  as  one-day  old  bread,  and  is  also 
extravagant.  The  difference  between  eating  new  bread  and  stale  being 
one  loaf  in  five  more  of  the  new.  If  by  accident  the  bread  has  accumu- 
lated, and  the  house-mother  finds  a  stale  roll  or  stale  loaf  too  many  and 
too  hard,  the  freshness  of  both  may  be  restored  by  dipping  them  in  hot 
water,  and  putting  them  in  the  oven,  when  they  will  be  as  fresh  as  ever. 
Home-made  bread  is  best  and  cheapest,  the  weight  of  water  used  in 
making  it  being  saved. 

Moreover,  home-made  bread  keeps  fresh  longer  than  baker's  bread, 
and  may  be  eaten  pleasantly  the  third  or  even  fourth  day.  There  is  also 
a  greater  chance  of  escaping  adulteration  of  alum,  etc.  etc.  The  house- 
mother can  guess  tolerably  well  what  quantity  of  bread  will  be  required, 
so  that  it  may  not  run  out  suddenly,  and  should  order  it  accordingly. 
The  average  quantity  is  about  a  quartern  loaf  for  each  person,  but  in 
some  families  (if  ladies  only)  less  will  be  required,  and  a  small  or  half 
loaf  of  2lbs.  will  be  found  sufficient. 

The  Flour-bin  next  requires  examination.  In  it  is  kept  the  flour 
used  for  puddings  and  cooking  generally.  It  should  be  kept  dry — about 
a  quartern  of  flour  a  week  is  sufficient,  unless  the  family  is  large.  Flour 
should  be  bought  of  the  miller.  Firsts  are  required  for  puddings  and 
tarts  ;  Seconds  (or  even  whole  meal)  are  much  better  and  more  whole- 
some for  bread.  The  baker  should  be  asked  occasionally  whether  bread 
has  fallen  ;  and  the  price  should  be  ascertained  by  the  housekeeper. 

Next  comes  the  Dripping.    This  should  be  nicely  clarified,  and  kept 


282  Feeding  the  Fam  i?y. 


in  clean  white  basins  ready  for  use.  It  is  of  great  value  in  housekeeping. 
The  mode  of  clarifying  it  is  this  :  Put  it  as  it  comes  from  the  meat  into 
a  basin,  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  and  stir  it  round  ;  set  it  to  cool.  When 
it  is  hard  and  cold,  lift  the  cake  which  will  have  formed  off  the  sediment, 
and  put  it  in  the  basin,  or  basins,  for  use.  Cover  from  dust.  Dripping 
is  used  for  basting,  frying,  making  plain  meat  pie-crusts,  and  plain  family 
cake.  The  poor  buy  it  at  yd.  or  &d.  a  pound  for  eating  on  bread  instead 
of  butter.  It  is  in  grand  households  the  cook's  perquisite.  Then,  of 
course,  the  cooking  has  to  be  done  with  butter  or  lard.  The  value  of 
allowing  the  dripping  in  a  large  household  is  estimated  at  from  10/.  to 
15/.,  in  addition  to  the  wages.  We  have  heard  of  a  cook  refusing  to 
give  up  the  privilege  for  an  extra  10/.  a  year. 

Eggs — the  bowl  of  eggs  should  be  examined,  and  the  number  used 
accounted  for  by  the  cook. 

If  Poultry  is  kept,  the  eggs  are  generally  put  into  the  store-room, 
dated,  and  given  out  as  required,  a  certain  number  being  kept  for  winter. 
When  bought  at  the  egg  merchants  a  few  only  should  be  purchased  at  a 
time,  in  case  of  their  proving  bad.  To  try  the  freshness  of  eggs  see 
pp.  244.  As  eggs  may  be  wastefully  used,  it  is  well  for  the  house- 
mother to  recollect  or  keep  a  memorandum  of  what  puddings,  cutlets,  etc. 
she  has  had  during  the  week.  These  minutiae  of  housekeeping  are  really 
important,  and  should  be  jotted  down  for  the  sake  of  remembrance.  We 
have  found  it  a  good  way  to  enter  the  dinner  ordered  daily  in  a  memo- 
randum-book. This  both  checks  expenditure  and  saves  the  dreary 
monotony  of  a  frequent  repetition  of  the  same  dishes. 

Ham  should  be  kept  under  a  wire  cover.  When  very  low  and  dry 
it  can  be  grated  off  into  a  jar  and  kept  for  ham  toast — an  excellent  break- 
fast dish.     The  bone  suffices  to  flavour  pea  soup. 

Bones  of  all  kinds  should  be  inquired  for,  as  they  will  otherwise 
disappear  and  be  wasted.  Every  bone  (not  left  on  a  plate)  should 
be  stewed  down  in  the  stockpot  for  gravy,  or  stock  for  soup.  With 
a  slight  covering  of  meat  they  may  be  devilled.  Next  comes  the  cold 
meat.  Cold  beef  may  be  re-warmed  as  Breslau  de  Bceuf  (see  Model 
Cookery),  as  Can?ielo?i  de  Beeuf,  or  curried,  minced,  and  served  with 
poached  eggs,  scalloped  with  bread  crumbs,  etc.  etc.,  or  served  in  cold 
slices,  steeped  in  a  mixture  of  vinegar  and  mustard,  and  garnished  with 
slices  of  hard  egg  or  beetroot.  It  may  also  be  made  into  croquettes, 
olives,  or  cakes. 

Cold  mutton  may  be  re-warmed  as  hash  or  curry. 

Cold  lamb  is  best  eaten  as  it  remains  with  lettuce. 

Cold  veal  is  best  minced  ;  it  also  curries  well ;  scalloped  \\.  is  excellent, 
or  it  makes  good  blanquettes. 

Cold  pork  can  be  curried. 

Cold  salt  beef  makes  excellent  bubble  and  squeak,  or  curry,  or  cold 
slices,  as  above. 

Cold  rabbit  can  be  fricasseed  or  curried. 

Cold  fowls  may  be  fricasseed,  minced,  curried,  or  put  into  a  mayonaise. 

Cold  hare  is  better  jugged — which  is  our  English  way  of  braising — 
than  it  is  the  first  day.     It  may  also  be  hashed. 

Cold  turkey — the  white  meat  may  be  minced,  and  legs  broiled  an<J 
laid  in  it ;  or  it  makes  a  capital  fricassee. 


Feeding  the  Family,  283 


We  name  these  different  modes  of  making  rechauffes  to  help  in  the 
ordering  of  dinner  and  suggest  the  variety  which  may  spring  from  one 
joint. 

Cheese  must  be  kept  covered.  When  it  is  down  too  near  the  rind  to 
send  to  table,  it  can  be  grated  for  cheese  pudding,  or  used  in  Macaroni. 

In  ordinary  dinners  (if  the  household  be  large)  the  luncheon  or  nursery 
dinner  has  to  be  taken  into  consideration,  and  the  kitchen  dinner  also  ; 
and  in  reality  the  task  is  an  easier  and  pleasanter  one  for  the  mistress  of 
such  an  establishment  than  for  the  house-mother  who  has  to  stint  and 
economise.  For  the  roast  beef  of  luncheon  or  kitchen  dinner  will  supply 
curry,  Breslau  de  Bceuf,  olives,  etc.,  for  the  late  dinner,  while  variety  can 
be  given  with  poultry7,  etc.  at  a  moderate  expense.  Numbers  in  fact  do  not 
increase  expense  to  the  extent  that  might  be  anticipated ;  and  a  grand  house- 
hold is  kept  (proportionately  of  course)  at  a  less  expense  than  a  small  one. 

But  now  we  turn  to  the  house-mother  who  rules  over  a  smaller  realm, 
and  has  to  "  cut  and  contrive."  In  ordering  dinner  she  requires  to 
exercise  forethought  and  observation.  For  example,  if  she  plans  her 
dinners  a  little  beforehand  they  will  fit  into  each  other  better.  Say  she 
has  a  sirloin  of  beef  one  day,  the  fillet  or  undercut  in  tiny  slices  fried 
with  bits  of  butter  and  a  slice  of  lemon  laid  on  each,  and  served  on 
mashed  potato,  makes  a  nice  little  dish  for  dinner.  The  end  stewed  ;  the 
main  piece  roasted.  Here  are  three  hot  dinners  ;  cold  or  minced  a  fourth  ; 
the  dripping  will  make  the  crust  of  a  meat  pie  ;  the  bone  will  go  largely 
towards  stock,  or  will  suffice  for  a  vegetable  soup.  Therefore,  seeing  these 
various  ways  of  doing  it,  she  orders  a  good  sized  joint,  and  not  a  small  one 
which  would  dry  up  and  be  less  profitable.  Or  say  that  she  is  obliged 
to  have  the  whites  of  a  certain  number  of  eggs  used ;  she  should  take 
care  to  order  some  dish  in  which  the  remaining  yolks  may  be  used. 

If  a  ham  bone  has  been  grated,  pea  soup  will  suggest  itself  for  the  next 
day,  and  so  on.  Observation — thought — foresight  are  all  called  into  play 
in  the  due  execution  of  these  duties. 

We  must  here  observe  that  economy  is  sometimes  well  shewn  in  fore- 
going puddings,  or  at  least  in  selecting  the  most  inexpensive.  That  they 
are  a  pleasant  and  even  wholesome  variety  of  diet  no  one  will  deny  ;  but 
they  materially  add  to  expense,  and  are  not  so  beneficial  as  a  fruit  dessert. 
Fresh  fruit  in  hot  weather  is  really  requisite  for  health  ;  and  in  winter  the 
good  effects  of  oranges  cannot  be  denied.  We  consider  that  if  the  house- 
mother cannot  afford  both  a  second  course  and  a  dessert,  it  is  wiser  to  give 
up  the  former,  go  without  puddings  and  eat  fruit  ;  or  perhaps  on  the  days 
cold  meat  forms  the  dinner,  pudding  may  appear  and  no  dessert ;  and  on 
roast  meat  days  fruit  and  no  pudding. 

If  in  ordering  dinner  there  is  much  to  remember,  the  cook  should  be 
made  to  enter  every  order  on  her  slate  ;  and  also  the  articles  required  for 
making  it. 

When  dinner  has  been  thus  ordered  or  arranged,  the  lady  should  go 
into  the  kitchen,  observe  if  it  is  perfectly  clean,  glance  into  the  closets, 
notice  if  the  kitchen  table  is  kept  white  and  the  tins  and  covers  bright, 
and  commend  or  reprove  as  required.  She  should  then  walk  into  the 
back  kitchen  or  scullery,  to  see  that  the  sink  is  clean  and  qtiite  J7~ee  from 
bad  smells — a  very  important  thing.  If  anything  unpleasant  is  perceptible, 
chloride  of  lime  should  instantly  be  poured  down  it.     The  mistress  of  the 


284  Feeding  the  Family. 

house  must  also  not  be  above  asking  to  look  inside  the  saucepans,  which 
should  be  kept  very  clean,  and  never  left  dirty  "  to  be  cleaned  another 
time."  She  should  also  insist  on  the  knives  never  being  put  in  the 
basket  dirty,  but  under  all  circumstances  washed,  and  ready  for  cleaning. 
Then  she  should  note  down  in  her  memorandum-book  what  hearthstone, 
blacking,  emery  paper,  soda,  or  soap  may  be  required,  and  the  cook 
should  accompany  her  to  the  store-room  to  receive  her  supplies. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  do  all  this  every  day  if  possible  ;  but  where  time  is 
an  object,  and  duties  are  various  and  pressing,  once  a  week  suffices  for  the 
examination  of  the  cooking  utensils,  etc.,  but  then  the  day  of  examination 
should  not  be  always  the  same,  but  vary,  so  that  no  preparation  may  be 
made  for  it  by  a  careless  or  dirty  servant. 

Once  a  week  is  also  often  enough  to  give  out  sugar  and  tea  for  the 
servants,  sugar  for  cooking,  etc.  etc.,  soap,  candles,  soda,  and  house 
flannels  ;  though  with  regard  to  cleaning  utensils  the  cook  may  occasion- 
ally have  to  apply  oftener.  If  any  articles  are  left  from  the  last  week's 
giving  out  she  should  be  asked  to  produce  them,  and  the  quantity  should 
be  made  up.     For  example,  say  that  you  have  given  out  on  one  Saturday 

1  lb.  of  rice,  2  lbs.  of  flour,  1  lb.  of  sugar  (for  cooking),  \  lb.  of  cocoa, 

2  lbs.  of  candles.  The  next  week  there  will  probably  be  some  of  each 
left.  It  will  then  only  be  necessary  to  make  up  the  quantities  to  the 
allowances  before  given  out.  This  will  keep  the  cook  with  always 
sufficient  articles  for  use  and  yet  with  little  power  to  waste. 

The  following  quantities  for  each  person  in  a  large  household  are 
thought  sufficient  for  one  week  : 

Bread. — 8  lbs.  or  two  quartern  loaves  for  a  woman  servant ;  16  lbs.  or 
four  quarterns  for  a  man  ;  but  this  quantity  will  vary  as  more  or  less  meat 
is  eaten. 

Meat. — 3!  lbs.  for  a  woman  ;  $\  lbs.  for  a  man,  averaging  all  eaters. 

Milk. — 1  quart,  or  more  if  it  is  for  a  child. 

Butter. — \  lb. 

Cheese. — \  lb. 

Potatoes.— 3|  lbs. 

Beer. — 1  gallon  for  a  woman  ;  7  quarts  for  a  man. 

Tea. — Two  ounces. 

Coffee. — \  lb.  (for  breakfast  only). 

Cocoa  (paste).— Ditto,  \  lb. 

Sugar. — \  lb. 

N.B. — In  giving  out  stores  for  the  week  the  housekeeper  must  multipl) 
each  article  by  the  number  of  persons,  and  that  will  give  the  quantity 
required.  Articles  of  doubtful  use,  such  as  rice  or  tapioca,  may  be  given 
or  not ;  an  account  should  be  required  of  the  last  given  out  before 
replenishing  the  kitchen  jar.  The  kitchen  spice-box  should  be  filled, 
and  the  date  of  filling  it  entered  in  the  store-room  book. 

After  having  thus  far  guided  the  house-mother,  we  must  say  a  few 
words  on  marketing.  It  is  certainly  best  to  go  to  market  (if  distance 
permits)  in  person. 

The  senses  will  help  in  selecting  the  best  materials  for  feeding  the 
family,  and  there  are  occasionally  times  when,  from  a  great  abundance, 
or  from  an  impossibility  of  keeping  them,  articles  generally  expensive  may 
be  had  at  a  moderate  price.   After  settling,  therefore,  what  to  have,  it  is  well 


Feeding  the  Family.  285 

to  go  and  buy  it  at  the  shop  or  market  itself — a  near  market  is  a  great 
economy  by  the  bye — there  is  a  chance  of  real  bargains  at  it — and  at  all 
times  it  is  cheaper  than  the  shops  (if  we  except  Covent  Garden).  Ready 
money,  of  course,  gets  a  fair  advantage  at  it.  Vegetables  are  the  most 
uncertain  articles  as  to  price  (speaking  from  a  London  experience),  very 
often  the  same  vegetable  in  every  respect  is  selling  at  one  shop  at  a 
comparatively  high  price,  and  at  another  close  by,  for  nearly  half  the 
sum.     For  these,  and  for  fruit,  it  is  especially  worth  catering  oneself. 

Butcher's  meat  is  pretty  generally  cheaper  at  market.  A  good 
butcher  is  generally  a  dear  one  apparently,  but  such  is  not  the  case  if 
his  meat  be  really  better  than  the  cheap  one's.  Prices  of  meat  vary  too 
often  to  give  them. 

Bread  has  a  fixed  price  and  rises  or  falls  with  the  market-price  of  flour. 

Milk  is  generally  4a7.  a  quart.  Butter  u.  Sd.  to  2s.,  at  present.  The 
Aylesbury  is  the  best.  Devonshire  has  a  peculiar  flavour  liked  by  some 
people.     Buy  at  a  trustworthy  dairy. 

If,  however,  circumstances  forbid  an  early  walk  marketing,  then  I  can 
give  no  better  advice  than  that  of  Dr.  Kitchener  to  "  employ  trustworthy 
tradesmen,"  who  will  send  for  orders  and  obey  them  to  the  best  of  their 
ability.  In  this  case  each  daily  order  should  be  written  down  in  a  private 
memorandum-book,  and  when  the  weekly  bills  or  books  come  in,  they 
should  be  compared  with  this  list.  Fix  the  sum  you  can  allow  for  house- 
keeping, and  never  exceed  it. 

We  will  conclude  this  part  of  our  subject  by  giving  Dr.  Kitchener's 
rules  for  marketing,  which  are  for  persons  of  good  income. 

"  The  best  rule  is  to  pay  ready  money  for  everything,  and  to  deal  with 
the  most  respectable  tradesmen  in  your  neighbourhood. 

"  If  you  leave  it  to  their  integrity  to  supply  you  with  a  good  article,  at  the 
fair  market  price,  you  will  be  supplied  with  better  provisions,  and  at  as 
reasonable  a  rate  as  those  bargain-hunters,  who  '  travel  around,  around 
about '  a  market  till  they  are  trapped  to  buy  some  unchewable  old  poultry, 
tough  mutton,  stringy  cow-beef,  or  stale  fish,  at  a  very  little  less  than 
the  price  of  prime  and  proper  food. 

"  With  savings  like  these  they  toddle  home  in  triumph,  cackling  all  the 
way  like  a  goose  that  has  got  ankle-deep  into  good  luck. 

"  All  the  skill  of  the  most  accomplished  cook  will  avail  nothing  unless 
she  is  furnished  with  prime  provisions.  The  best  way  to  procure  these 
is  to  deal  with  shops  of  established  character.  You  may  appear  to  pay 
perhaps  ten  per  cent,  more  than  you  would  were  you  to  deal  with  those 
who  pretend  to  sell  cheap,  but  you  would  be  much  better  served.  Every 
trade  has  its  tricks  and  deceptions  ;  those  who  follow  them  can  deceive 
you  if  they  please,  and  they  are  too  apt  to  do  so  if  you  provoke  the 
exercise  of  their  overreaching  talent.  Challenge  them  to  a  game  at 
'  Catch  who  can,'  by  entirely  relying  on  your  own  judgment,  and  you  will 
soon  find  nothing  but  very  long  experience  can  make  you  equal  to  the 
combat  of  marketing  to  the  utmost  advantage.  If  you  think  a  tradesman 
has  imposed  upon  you,  never  use  a  second  word  if  the  first  will  not  do, 
nor  drop  the  least  hint  of  an  imposition  ;  the  only  method  to  induce  him 
to  make  an  abatement  is  the  hope  of  future  favours,  pay  the  demand,  and 
deal  with  the  gentleman  no  more  ;  but  do  not  let  him  see  that  you  are 
displeased,  or  as  soon  as  you  are  out  of  sight  your  reputation  will  suffer 


286  Bow  to  Keep  Receipts— The  Breakfast  'Table. 

as  much  as  your  pocket  has.  Before  you  go  to  market,  look  over  youf 
larder  and  consider  well  what  things  you  require — especially  on  a  Satur- 
day. No  well-regulated  family  can  suffer  a  disorderly  caterer  to  be 
jumping  in  and  out  to  make  purchases  on  a  Sunday  morning.  You  will 
be  enabled  to  manage  much  better  if  you  will  make  out  a  bill  of  fare  for 
the  week  on  the  Saturday  before ;  for  example,  for  a  family  of  half  a 
dozen  : — 

Sunday. — Roast  beef  and  pudding. 

Monday. — Fowl,  what  was  left  of  pudding,  fried,  or  warmed  in  a 
Dutch  oven. 

Tuesday. — Calf's  head,  apple  pie. 

Wednesday. — Leg  of  mutton. 

TJiursday. — Ditto,  broiled  or  hashed,  and  pancakes. 

Friday. — Fish,  pudding. 

Saturday. — Fish,  or  eggs  and  bacon. 
"  It  is  an  excellent  plan  to  have  certain  things  on  certain  days.  Whefi 
your  butcher  or  poulterer  knows  what  you  will  want,  he  has  abetter  chance 
of  doing  his  best  for  you  ;  and  never  think  of  ordering  beef  for  roasting 
except  for  Sunday.  When  you  order  meat,  poultry,  or  fish,  tell  the  trades- 
man when  you  intend  to  dress  it ;  he  will  then  have  it  in  his  power  to 
serve  you  with  provision  that  will  do  him  credit,  which  the  finest  meat  in 
the  world  will  never  do,  unless  it  has  been  kept  a  proper  time  to  be  ripe 
and  tender." 

Weights  and  Measures. — As  all  families  are  not  provided  with 
scales  and  weights,  referring  to  the  ingredients  generally  used  in  cakes 
and  pastry,  a  comparative  list  of  those  weights  and  measures  may  be 
useful.  Wheat-flour, — one  pound  is  one  quart  ;  butter,  when  soft,  one 
pound  one  ounce  is  one  quart ;  loaf  sugar,  broken,  one  pound  is  one  quart ; 
white  sugar,  powdered,  one  pound  one  ounce  is  one  quart ;  eggs,  eight 
unbroken  eggs  are  one  pound  ;  best  brown  sugar,  one  pound  two  ounces 
is  one  quart ;  sixteen  large  table-spoonfuls  are  half  a  pint ;  eight  large 
table-spoonfuls  are  one  gill ;  a  common  sized  tumbler  holds  half-a-pint ; 
a  common  sized  wine-glass  holds  half-a-gill. 

How  to  keep  Receipts. 

The  usual  way  of  keeping  receipts  on  files  dated  with  the  year  is  a  good 
one  ;  but  a  friend  has  made  (for  the  Editor)  a  very  neat  and  ingenious 
case  of  brown  holland,  which  hangs  inside  the  store-room,  or  closet  door, 
and  holds  the  receipts  separately.  It  is  about  a  yard  square  of  holland, 
on  which  pockets  are  stitched  in  rows — i.e.  a  long  strip  is  stitched  on  the 
foundation  by  the  bottom  line  and  then  divided  into  pockets.  On  each  is 
marked  the  purpose  for  which  it  is  designed — i.e.  rent,  taxes  and  rates, 
gas,  water,  butcher,  grocer,  baker,  milk,  etc.  etc.  The  whole  is  neatly 
bound  with  ribbon  or  coloured  tape,  and  is  most  convenient,  as  a  receipt 
can  be  found  in  it  in  a  moment. 

The  Breakfast  Table. 

A  bright-looking  breakfast-table  is  a  cheerful  welcome  to  a  new  day, 
and  the  housewife  should  be  careful  that  it  may  offer  nothing  to  the  sight 
and  taste  but  pleasing  objects.  In  this  volume  will  be  seen  a  picture  of  a 
well-laid  breakfast-table. 


/.     Brawn. 

Z.     Mustard  &  Cress  I 

&  luiih.shcs  1 


3 .     Bread. 

4  .      Ilnl   II nil.,. 

5 .    Oysters  &  Bacon 


H .    Kid  urns. 
7 .     Egos. 


Butte 


The  Breakfast  Table.  287 


It  will  be  seen  that  at  the  head  of  the  table  are  the  breakfast  cups  and 
saucers,  the  tea-cups  to  the  left,  the  coffee-cups  on  the  righthand  side. 
The  teapot  and  coffee-pot  stand  in  front  of  the  urn  ;  slop-basin  and  milk- 
jug  to  the  left ;  cream  and  hot  milk  to  the  right.  Hotplates  should  come 
in  with  hot  dishes  ;  a  plate,  knife  and  fork  should  be  set  for  each  person. 
Bread  should  be  on  a  wooden  platter.  Hot  rolls  should  be  covered  with 
a  napkin.  Dry  toast  and  hot  toast  must  only  be  sent  in  when  the 
breakfast  party  are  seated,  as  they  are  spoiled  by  keeping. 

The  tablecloth  should  be  spotlessly  white  and  smooth,  the  plate 
brightly  cleaned,  the  china  pretty,  the  food  well  cooked — tea,  coffee, 
chocolate  well  made.  An  appetizing  breakfast  is  a  great  promoter  of 
health  and  good  temper.  A  soiled  cloth,  tough  toast,  blackened  and 
half-dressed  chops,  weak  or  cold  tea,  are  real  trials  to  temper  when 
encountered  at  the  beginning  of  the  day.  Flowers  on  the  breakfast-table 
are  imperative  where  they  are  not  impossible. 

"  Set  flowers  on  your  table,"  says  Leigh  Hunt,  "  a  whole  nosegay  il 
you  can  get  it — or  but  two  or  three — or  a  single  flower — a  rose,  a  pink  ; 
nay,  a  daisy.  Bring  a  few  daisies  and  buttercups  from  your  last  field- 
walk,  and  keep  them  alive  in  a  little  water  ;  ay,  preserve  but  a  branch  of 
clover,  or  a  handful  of  flowering  grass,  one  of  the  most  elegant  as  well  as 
cheap  of  Nature's  productions,  and  you  have  something  on  your  table 
that  reminds  you  of  the  beauties  of  God's  creation,  and  gives  you  a  link 
with  the  poets  and  sages  that  have  done  it  most  honour.  Put  but  a  rose, 
or  a  lily,  or  a  violet  on  your  table,  and  you  and  Lord  Bacon  have  a 
custom  in  common  ;  for  that  great  and  wise  man  was  in  the  habit  of 
having  the  flowers  in  season  set  upon  his  table — morning,  we  believe, 
noon,  and  night ;  that  is  to  say,  at  all  his  meals  ;  for  dinner,  in  his  time, 
was  taken  at  noon  ;  and  why  should  he  not  have  flowers  at  all  his  meals, 
seeing  that  they  were  growing  all  day  ?  Now  here  is  a  fashion  that  shall 
last  you  for  ever,  if  you  please,  never  changing  with  silks  and  velvets  and 
silver  forks,  nor  dependent  upon  the  caprice  of  some  fine  gentleman  or 
lady,  who  have  nothing  but  caprice  and  change  to  give  them  importance 
and  a  sensation.  The  fashion  of  the  garments  of  heaven  and  earth 
endures  for  ever,  and  you  may  adorn  your  table  with  specimens  of  their 
drapery,  with  flowers  out  of  the  fields,  and  golden  beams  out  of  the  blue 
ether.  Flowers  on  a  morning  table  are  specially  suitable  to  the  time. 
They  look  like  the  happy  wakening  of  the  Creation  ;  they  bring  the 
perfumes  of  the  breath  of  Nature  into  your  room  ;  they  seem  the  repre- 
sentations and  embodiments  of  the  very  smiles  of  your  home,  the  graces 
of  its  good-morrow,  proofs  that  some  intellectual  beauty  is  in  ourselves, 
or  those  about  us,  some  house  Aurora  (if  we  are  so  lucky  as  to  have  such 
a  companion)  helping  to  strew  our  life  with  sweets,  or  in  ourselves  some 
masculine  mildness  not  unworthy  to  possess  such  a  companion,  or  unlikely 
to  gain  her." 

Breakfast  dishes  are  of  themselves  pre  :ty  and  taking  to  the  eye.  Eggs 
in  their  stands  or  in  baskets  lined  with  moss,  as  Plover  eggs  are  served,  are 
beautiful  in  form  and  colour  ;  honeycomb,  radishes  and  mustard  and 
cress,  are  all  lovely  patches  of  colour  on  a  white  ground. 

Chops  are  not  very  well  fitted  for  adornment,  but  brawn  and  ham  are 
picturesque  if  adorned  with  plenty  of  parsley. 

Then  twice-dressed  meat  or  fish  may  appear  in  scallop  shells,  which 


Luncheon. 


placed  on  a  white  napkin  look  very  pretty  ;  and  no  dish  looks  better  than 
lobster  cutlets.  We  suggest  also  that  the  breakfast-room  should  face 
the  east  to  receive  the  early  sunshine. 

On  the  sideboard  should  be  placed  cold  joints  of  all  kinds— they  rather 
encumber  a  breakfast  table,  therefore  custom  and  good  taste  require  a 
cloth  over  the  sideboard  or  a  side-table  for  them.  Here  also  must  be  put 
whatever  other  superfluous  food  cannot  find  a  place  on  the  table.  The 
breakfast  table  will  always  be  the  criterion  of  the  style  of  the  house  and 
of  the  taste  of  its  mistress. 

We  subjoin  a  list  of  a  few  breakfast  dishes  for  selection  : — 


ON   THE  TABLE. 


Lobster  cutlets. 
Fish  cakes. 
Kippered  salmon. 
Shrimp  toast. 
Kidneys  stewed  in  wine. 
Kidneys  broiled. 
Devilled  kidneys. 
Poached  eggs  with  cream. 
Rumbled  eggs. 
Tomatoes  and  eggs. 
Birds'  nests. 
Egg  toast. 
Ham  toast. 
Anchovy  cutlets. 
Poached    eggs    a     la   Victoria 
(with  truffles). 


Kegeree. 

Omelet. 

Scalloped  veal. 

Broiled  partridge. 

Broiled  pheasant. 

Salmi  of  game. 

Broiled  mushrooms. 

Devilled     legs    of    turkey    or 

chicken. 
Eggs  a  la  bonne  femme. 
Oysters  in  ham  (huitres  au  lit). 
Brawn. 
Oyster  loaves. 
Oyster  etiquette.* 


ON  THE  SIDEBOARD. 

Ham — Cold  Beef— Boiled  or  cold  roast  Pork— Cold  Fowl  or  Turkey — 
Tongue — Cold  Mutton  or  Lamb. 

Luncheon. 

The  word  lunch  or  luncheon  literally  means  a  slice  of  bread.  It  was 
added  when  dinners  became  late,  and  since  that  meal  has  long  passed  the 
supper  hour  of  our  ancestors,  luncheon  has  become  a  substantial  meal,  in 
fact  an  early  dinner,  at  which  the  children  of  the  upper  classes  usually 
dine. 

Our  ancestors  were  content  with  dinner  and  supper  only  ;  but  probably 
quite  as  much  food  was  consumed  at  the  two  meals  as  is  consumed  at 
present. 


*  Receipts  for  these  dishes  will  he  found  in  this  work  under  proper  headings, 
or  in  "  Warne's  Model  Cookery." 


/     Cold  Chickmsi 
■in  mi   Budding, 
htatoes. 


■/    Scalloped   Veal. 

.'>.    Salad* 

6.   Horieijcomb. 


' .    Curried  l\<ms. 
/;.    Cutlets. 
9.    Jam  Tart. 


To  Lay  a  Luncheon.  289 


To  Lay  a  Luncheon. 

It  is  possible  that  some  amongst  our  readers  may  find  the  accompanying 
plate  of  a  laid  luncheon  useful,  to  show  to  inexperienced  servants  as  a 
specimen  of  what  the  table  should  look  like. 

They  need  only  add  the  information  that  small  knives  and  forks  are 
laid  for  luncheon  ;  that  caraffes  of  water  should  stand  at  the  four  corners 
of  the  table,  with  spoons,  salt-cellars,  etc.  as  for  dinner ;  and  that  no 
table  napkins  are  required.  The  servants  hand  the  plates  of  whatever  is 
eaten  once  round  and  then  leave  the  room  ;  no  further  waiting  (unless  fci 
a  grand  luncheon  party)  being  required. 


?9° 


THE    LADY'S   SOCIAL   DUTIES. 

"Use  hospitality  one  to  another  without  grudging." 

In  addition  to  her  household  duties  the  lady  of  a  house  has  social 
duties  to  perform,  which  she  is  equally  concerned  in  fulfilling  well  and 
gracefully.  Of  these  hospitality  comes  first.  There  has  been  much 
falling  off  in  the  frequency  of  domestic  entertainments  since  the  growth 
of  luxury  has  made  home  parties  so  extremely  expensive. 

We  think  it  would  be  well  if  the  middle  classes  would  return  in  some 
measure  to  the  old-fashioned  heartiness  of  their  ancestors,  and  ask  friends 
to  spend  a  social  evening  without  giving  them  a  supper  which  it  would 
cost  an  immense  sum  to  return. 

The  late  hours  for  dinner  stand  somewhat  in  the  way  of  small  evening 
parties  ;  still  if  they  were  given  oftener  we  believe  that  much  social  good 
would  arise  from  them.  The  sons  of  the  family  would  not  seek  evening 
amusement  so  much  at  music  halls,  plays,  etc.,  but  would  find  it  at  home, 
and  their  associates  would  be  ladies  and  gentlemen  ;  while  the  dulness  of 
girl-life  would  be  exceedingly  brightened  by  them. 

We  have  heard  a  lady  relate  how,  in  the  old  "  war  time,"  she  and  her 
young  friends  used  to  meet  often  at  each  others'  houses  once  or  twice  a 
week  and  dance  to  their  own  playing  ;  or  play  round  games  of  cards — eat 
a  light  supper  of  sandwiches  and  wine,  and,  as  they  had  walked  to  the 
friend's  house,  so  walk  back  again  at  night,  escorted  by  a  servant  and  a 
group  of  merry  friends.  And  these  ladies  were  of  high  station  ;  one  of 
them  became  afterwards  the  wife  of  an  earl,  and  the  speaker  herself  was 
of  still  better  family. 

Amongst  the  upper  middle  class  these  simple  gatherings  no  longer 
exist ;  they  only  entertain  expensively;  much  in  the  style  of  far  grander 
fortunes,  and  of  course  their  parties  must  needs  be  few  and  far  between. 
But  it  is  time  to  say  something  about  the  present  mode  of  entertainment. 
We  begin  of  course  with  dinners. 

Dinner  parties  have  become  so  very  expensive  that  people  of  small 
means  cannot  give  them ;  they  are  compelled  to  ask  their  friends 
separately,  or  to  entertain  them  at  a  "  kettledrum,"  or  an  evening  party.  The 
latter  is  not  less  expensive  than  a  dinner,  but  is  more  easily  managed 
where  the  servants  are  not  numerous  and  the  rooms  are  small. 

Nevertheless  the  wife  of  a  professional  man  may  often  have  to  entertain 
a  party  of  six  or  eight,  and  this  may  be  done  very  pleasantly  if  too  much 
is  not  attempted  and  the  guests  assimilate  well. 

And  here  we  would  observe,  that  if  the  servant  who  waits  at  table — 
whether  footman  or  parlour-maid  or  housemaid — is  used  every  day  to 
wait  will,  and  that  the  lady  points  out  any  little  awkwardness  or  short- 
coming which  she  may  perceive  in  his  or  her  service,  not  at  the  time,  but 
the  next  day,  there  will  be  little  difficulty  in  the  waiting  when  two  or  three 
guests  come  to  dine  ;  but  to  wait  on  a  dinner  party  of  eight  or  ten,  two 


A  TabU,  spread  for  dinner  a  /a  Russe  with 
plateau  of  bokirw  glass  tun/  fountain. 


Dinners.  291 


persons  are  required.  Waiters  can,  however,  be  hired,  or  a  clever 
housemaid,  occasionally  trained,  can  help  the  footman. 

Dinners  a  la  Rtisse  are  now  universal,  and  are  very  nice,  if  well 
managed.  The  table  is  spread  with  fruit  and  flowers  only  ;  a  tiny  basket 
of  strawberries  in  summer,  being  placed  at  each  seat  near  the  wine  glasses, 
etc.  etc.     In  other  respects  plate  and  glass  as  usual. 

There  should  be  a  tiny  salt-cellar  and  a  caraffe  beside  each  person  ; 
this  will  be  achieved  (with  a  party  of  eight)  by  placing  the  former  at  the 
end  of  the  table,  one  at  each  corner,  and  one  in  the  middle  on  each  side. 
Soup  and  fish  are  handed — then  side-dishes — then  the  principal  joints — 
next  puddings — then  cheese,  etc.  ;  ices  and  dessert. 

The  tin  or  glass  half-moons  are  a  very  pretty  and  new  device  for 
ornamentation  ;  the  centre  may  vary  according  to  taste  or  means.  The 
basket  of  roses  given  in  Frontispiece,  or  in  winter  the  iced  bouquet 
(directions  for  making  which  will  be  found  in  this  book)  will  form  a 
pretty  centre.  The  tin  half-moons  will  ornament  the  edges  of  dishes,  etc. 
Nothing  should  be  served  which  the  cook  is  not  sure  of  doing  well ;  the 
meal,  however  simple,  should  be  excellent  of  its  kind,  and  some  forethought 
should  be  exercised  as  to  the  cook's  power  of  dishing  up  in  time  the 
things  ordered,  and  the  capabilities  of  the  grate  or  stove  for  cooking 
them.  Good  soup  is  not  difficult  to  make,  and  may  be  prepared  the  day 
before  ;  so  also  must  be  the  jellies  and  blancmange.  Pigeon  or  any  game 
pie,  vols-au-vent  and  patties  may  also  be  ready,  and  only  require  warming — 
in  short,  preparations  might  commence,  to  save  time  and  hurry,  at  least 
two  days  before. 

The  following  are  a  few  moderate  dinners  for  middle-class  people  :— 

Dinner  for  Eight  People. 

January. 

Hare  Soup.  Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders.  Oyster  Sauce. 

Side  Dishes  Handed.  Principal  Dishes. 

Oyster  Patties.  Saddle  of  Mutton. 

Cotelettes  a  la  Maintenon.  Boiled  Turkey. 

Vegetables— Potatoes,  mashed.  Seakale  stewed  white, 

Second  Course. 

As  handed. 

Brace  of  Partridges.  Cabinet  Pudding.  Jaime  Mange, 

Punch  Jelly.  Cheese  Fondu. 

Of  this  dinner  the  soup  may  be  made  the  day  previously ;  also  the  oyster 
patties,  jaune  mange,  and  Punch  jelly.  The  remaining  six  dishes  would 
be  within  the  compass  of  a  moderate  cook's  powers  ;  while  cheerful 
conversation,  ease,  and  comfort  in  partaking  of  the  dinner  will  render  it 
quite  as  possible  that  it  may  be  a  success,  as  far  more  pretentious 
entertainments. 

The  housekeeper  must  take  care  that  the  cutlets,  which  are  generally 
(in  London)  sent  trimmed  and  ready  from  the  butcher,  are  not  kept  long; 

u  2 


92  Dinners. 


cut  apart.  A  very  clever  and  experienced  lady  has  told  us  that  this 
makes  the  difference  between  dried  up  and  mellow  tasting  cutlets.  The 
joint  should  hang  till  the  cutlets  are  required.  If  sent  cut  from  the 
butcher's  they  should  not  be  quite  disjointed,  and  should  be  put  up  close 
together  and  so  tied  till  required.  A  chop,  cutlet,  or  steak  left  all  night 
before  it  is  dressed  loses  great  part  of  its  juices  by  evaporation. 

Second  Dinner  for  Eight  Persons. 

March. 

Clear  Gravy  Soup,  or  Mock  Turtle.  Brill. 

Side  Dishes  Handed. 

Sweetbreads.         Veal  Olives. 

Principal  Dishes. 

Calfs  Head,  Tongue,  and  Brains.  Sirloin  of  Beef. 

Vegetables— Potato  Balls.  Brocoli. 

Second  Course. 

Guinea  Fowl.  Ratafia  Pudding.  Cream.  Jelly. 

Third  Dinner. 

June. 

Green  Pea  Soup.  Salmon. 

Side  Dishes  Handed. 

Mousse  de  Volaille.  Lobster  Patties. 

Principal  Dishes. 

Fore-quarter  of  Lamb.  Boiled  Chickens  and  Tongue. 

Vegetables — Young  Potatoes.  Green  Peas. 

Second  Course. 

Stewed  Pigeons.  Gooseberry  Tart  and  Clotted  Cream  or  Custard. 

Strawberry  Cream.  Iced  Pudding. 

Fourth  Dinner. 

October. 

Oxtail  Soup.         Stewed  Eels. 

Side  Dishes  Handed. 

Curried  Chicken.  Kromeskies. 

Principal  Dishes. 

Saddle  of  Mutton.  Roast  Goose. 

Vegetables — Potatoes  and  French  Beans. 

Second  Course. 

Pheasant. 

Maizena  Pudding.  Charlotte  Russe.  Apricot  Tart. 


Dinners.  293 


More  Expensive  Dinners, 

January. 

Turtle  Soup.  Clear  Gravy  Soup. 

Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders.  Cutlets  of  Sole. 

Side  Dishes  Handed. 
Tendons  de  Veau.  Stewed  Pigeons.  Rissoles. 

Fillets  of  Duck. 

Principal  Dishes. 

Saddle  of  Mutton.  Roast  Turkey. 

Vegetables— Potatoes.  Seakale.  Brocoli. 

Second  Course. 
Partridges.  Grouse. 

Queen  Mab  Pudding.  Louis  Philippe's  Pudding. 

Lemon  Cream.  Claret  Jelly. 

Cheese  Fondu.  Souffle. 

May. 

White  Soup.  Green  Pea  Soup. 

Salmon.  Sole  Normande. 

Side  Dishes  Handed. 

Lobster  Patties  Savoury  Vols-au-Vent. 

Stewed  Sweetbreads.  Kidneys  Saute  au  Vin. 

Principal  Dishes. 

Lamb  stewed  in  Green  Peas.  Fricandeau  of  Veal. 

Vegetables  —  Potatoes.  Green  Peas.  Asparagus. 

Second  Course. 

Ducklings  and  Green  Peas.  Iced  Venice  Pudding. 

Ratifia  Pudding.  Orange  Jelly.  Chocolate  Cream. 

July. 

White  Soup.  Julienne  Soup. 

Turbot.     Spatchcock  Eels. 

Side  Dishes  Handed. 

Veal  Patties.  Lobster  Cutlets.  Lamb  Sweetbread-},  Plovers. 

Principal  Dishes. 

Turkey  Poults.  Saddle  of  Mutton. 

Vegetables — Potatoes.  Green  Peas.  Vegetable  Marrow. 

Second  Course. 

Sir  Watkin's  Pudding.  Choux  a  la  Comtesse. 

Maraschino  Jelly.  Artichokes. 


294  Etiquette  of  a  Dinner  Party. 


October. 

Clear  Gravy  Soup.  Soup  a  la  Bonne  Femme. 

Salmon  Trout.  Turbot  a  la  creme. 

Side  Dishes  Handed. 

Oyster  Patties.  Fricandeau  of  Ox  palattes.  Pigeons  Jugged. 

Chicken  a  l'Estragon. 

Principal  Dishes. 

Sirloin  of  Beef,  Turkey  Poult  or  Roast  Fowls. 

Vegetables — Potatoes.  French  Beans,  etc.  etc. 

Second  Course. 

Grouse.  Apricot  Tart.  Pine-apple  Fritters. 

Stone  Cream.  Milan  Souffle'.  Cheese  Canapees. 

December. 

Brown  Oyster  Soup.  Mulligatawny  Soup. 

Turbot.  Carpe  Farcie. 

Side  Dishes  Handed. 

Houselamb  Cutlets  a  la  Royale.  Pate  de  Foie  Gras. 

Poulets  a  la  Marengo.  Curried  Eggs. 

Roast  Larks. 

Principal  Dishes. 

Haunch  of  Mutton.  Boiled  Turkey  aux  Truffes. 

Vegetables — Potatoes.         Seakale.         Brocoli. 

Second  Course. 

Pheasants.  Partridges. 

Chancellor's  Pudding.         Leche  Crema. 
Open  Jelly  and  Whipped  Cream.  Blancmange. 

Ramakins,  or  Macaroni. 

ETIQUETTE  OP  A  DINNER  PARTY. 

The  lady  who  gives  a  dinner  party  should  be  very  punctual,  especially 
if  she  is  one  of  those  who  have  no  house-keeper  nor  a  very  large  number 
of  efficient  servants.  She  should  be  in  the  drawing-room  some  few 
minutes  before  her  guests  are  expected,  that  she  may  glance  around  and 
see  that  everything  is  arranged  as  she  would  wish — chairs  and  sofas 
placed  where  they  can  be  easily  used,  etc. 

There  is  a  sad  fashion,  amongst  people  of  the  middle  class,  of  receiving 
their  guests  in  a  drawing-room  which  is  not  always  inhabited,  and  in 
which  the  fire  is  not  lighted  till  about  half  an  hour  before  the  arrival  of  the 
visitors — nothing  more  uncomfortable  can  be  imagined.  The  room  feels 
cold — is  often  damp,  the  fire  looks  newly-lighted,  and  there  is  a  general 
sense  of  discomfort  in  it. 


/.      I'm  i'h />j)/c. 

■/■. 

I'hiius. 

6. 

Apiicots. 

'! .      Grapes. 

.  ?, 

Greengages. 

7 . 

I'm  <■/ aw 

■  '>.     Apples. 

o . 

Melon* 

Etiquette  of  a  Dinner-  Party.  295 

Now  if  the  family  habitually  occupy  the  library  or  breakfast-room,  they 
should  take  care  that  a  fire  be  lighted  in  the  drawing-room  on  the  morning 
of  the  day  on  which  they  expect  guests,  so  that  the  room  may  be  well 
warmed  in  time.  Plenty  of  light,  well  distributed,  is  another  means  of 
ensuring  the  success  of  a  party. 

The  lady  should  advance  a  little  way  to  receive  her  guests  ;  the  chairs 
should  be  arranged  so  as  not  to  create  any  confusion  on  their  entrance  ; 
and  the  welcome  should  be  smiling  and  cordial,  not  stiff  and 
formal. 

Should  a  guest  be  late,  or  the  cookunpunctual,  the  lady  must  not  show 
any  outward  signs  of  annoyance  or  impatience,  but  endeavour  to  make  the 
guests  forget  it  by  pleasing  and  amusing  conversation. 

Very  soon  after  the  last  guest  has  arrived,  the  servant  ought  to 
announce  dinner,  and  the  host,  after  directing  the  gentlemen  whom  to 
take  in,  should  offer  his  arm  to  the  lady  of  the  highest  rank  in  the  room, 
the  gentleman  of  highest  station  taking  the  lady  of  the  house. 

Noav  this  order  of  precedency  in  going  in  to  dinner  being  likely,  if 
violated,  to  give  offence,  it  is  well  that  the  lady  of  the  house  should 
arrange  with  her  husband  how  to  marshal  their  guests  before  they 
arrive. 

With  respect  to  persons  of  title,  these  take  precedence  according  to  their 
titles  ;  though,  as  eldest  sons  of  peers  have  intermediate  places  in  the 
scale  (so  to  speak),  we  advise  the  lady  to  have  by  her,  Lodge's  "  Orders  of 
Precedency/'  that  she  may  make  no  mistakes.  Foreign  ambassadors  are 
given  the  precedence  of  our  nobility,  out  of  courtesy,  and  with  respect  to 
their  mission  ;  archbishops  rank  with  dukes  ;  bishops  with  earls. 

Ordinary  foreign  counts  and  barons  have  no  precedency  of  title  in 
England,  but  rank  about  with  English  baronets  or  great  landed 
proprietors. 

For  untitled  precedence  :•— 

An  earl's  grandson  or  grand-daughter,  and  all  near  relations  (untitled) 
of  the  aristocracy  precede  the  esquires  or  country  gentlemen. 

Then  come — 

Wives  of  country  gentlemen  of  no  profession. 

Clergymen's  wives. 

Barristers'  wives. 

Naval  officers  and  their  wives. 

Military  men  and  their  wives. 

There  is  no  specified  place  for  physicians,  who,  however,  are  ranked 
in  the  royal  household  as  next  to  knights,  and  whose  wives  therefore 
would  go  out  after  those  of  barristers. 

These  rules  appear  doubtless  to  many  unnecessary  and  absurd,  but 
they  are  not  really  so  ;  and  perhaps  there  is  no  truer  sign  of  good 
breeding  than  to  know  how  to  render  "  honour  to  whom  honour  is  due." 
Assuredly  they  are  of  great  use  to  prevent  personal  piques  at  supposed 
preferences  and  neglects. 

The  lady  of  the  house  should  be  at  leisure  to  give  her  whole  attention 
to  her  guests.  If  a  clergyman  be  present  he  is  asked  to  say  grace  ;  if  not, 
the  gentleman  of  the  house  does  so. 

The  present  fashion  of  giving  dinner  parties  a  la  Russe,  is  far  preferable 
to  the  old  mode  of  having  the  joints,  etc.,  on  the  table  ;  but  it  supposes 


296  Etiquette  of  a  Dinner  Party. 

that  you  have  a  sufficient  number  of  waiters,  as  otherwise  it  would  be 
impossible  and  ridiculous. 

The  table,  then  is  laid  thus  :  in  the  centre  is  some  exquisite  ornament 
— an  alabaster  stand  crowned  with  pine-apples,  beneath  which  hang 
clusters  of  grapes  ;  or  a  frosted-silver  tree,  with  deer,  etc.,  beneath  it, 
holding  on  its  branches  glass  dishes  filled  with  the  most  picturesque  fruit ; 
or  any  of  the  centres  of  which  pictures  are  given  in  this  book  ;  but  it  is 
now  the  fashion  to  have  the  centre  ornament  of  flowers  very  low.  Round 
it  the  dessert  dishes  are  put,  intermixed  with  dishes  of  preserve,  sweet- 
meats, etc.  At  the  house  of  a  nobleman,  with  whom  we  occasionally 
dine,  the  table — a  round  one — is  encircled  by  small  silver  camels,  bearing 
on  their  backs  silver  baskets,  holding  tiny  fruits  or  sweetmeats. 

Menus,  or  dinner  cards,  are  placed  the  length  of  the  table,  one  for  the 
use  of  two  persons  ;  on  these  the  names  of  the  dishes  are  written,  so  that 
the  guests  may  select  whatever  they  prefer. 

Soup  is  then  handed  ;  sherry  is  offered  after  it.     Fish  follows  soup. 

Then  the  made  dishes  (which  would  be  side  dishes  were  they  on  the 
table)  are  handed,  duplicates  of  each  being  handed  simultaneously  on 
each  side  of  the  table. 

After  these  follow  the  pieces  de  resistance — turkey,  lamb,  mutton,  etc. 
Then  follow  game,  puddings,  tarts,  jellies,  etc.  etc. 

During  dinner  the  hostess  should  chat  pleasantly  with  her  guests,  and 
not  be  too  much  engrossed  with  the  dinner,  or  with  watching  the  servants 
waiting. 

Any  mistake  or  slight  solecism  will  be  much  less  noticed  if  an  anxious 
glance  does  not  direct  attention  to  it. 

We  have  described  a  dinner  d  la  Russe;  but  as  our  book  is  meant 
also  for  readers  of  small  income,  we  shall  describe  a  dinner  on  a  smaller 
scale,  and  in  the  present  mode  of  combination  of  the  old  and  new 
fashions. 

In  the  centre  of  the  table  an  ornament,  holding  fruit,  etc.  (as  we  have 
described  already),  should  be  placed;  close  round  it  the  dessert-dishes 
with  fruit,  etc. 

Soup  is  put  opposite  to  the  lady  of  the  house.  If  there  are  two  soups, 
a  tureen  will  be  at  each  end  and  be  succeeded  by  two  kinds  of  fish. 

It  may  be  that  the  soup  is  before  the  lady,  and  the  fish  at  the  same 
time  placed  before  the  gentleman.  The  butler  holds  the  plate  close  to  the 
tureen,  and  one  ladleful  is  sent  to  each  person.  The  butler  gives  the 
plate,  when  filled,  to  the  footman,  who  carries  it  round  to  the  guests. 

The  gentleman  on  her  right  hand  generally  saves  her  the  trouble  of 
helping  it. 

The  soup  and  fish  are  succeeded  by  the  meat  and  chickens,  or  turkey. 
The  inevitable  saddle  of  mutton,  or  the  fore-quarter  of  lamb,  are  put  before 
the  gentleman  ;  the  chicken  or  turkey  before  the  lady,  who  is  assisted  in 
carving  by  the  gentleman  beside  her. 

But  before  "either  of  these  pieces  de  resistance  are  uncovered,  the 
servants  hand  the  side-dishes,  which  are  not  now  put  on  the  table. 

The  second  course  follows  :  the  game  is  put  before  the  gentleman  ;  the 
lady  has  the  pudding  ;  jelly,  blancmange,  etc.,  are  at  the  sides. 

When  the  second  course  has  been  removed,  and  cheese  handed  round, 
grace  is  said  again,  and  the  dessert  follows. 


Etiquette  of  a  Dinner  Party.  297 

Ice  is  handed  round  first,  then  the  separate  dishes  of  fruit,  etc.  After 
which  the  servants  leave  the  room.  The  wine  is  passed  round  the  table, 
and  the  gentlemen  help  the  ladies  to  it  as  well  as  to  any  more  fruit  which 
they  may  require.     This  is  an  especial  time  for  conversation. 

Sherry  is  offered  once  by  the  butler  after  soup,  or  oftener  if  there  is 
no  champagne  or  hock.  Hock  is  offered  with  the  fish,  or  chablis  takes 
its  place.  Champagne  is  taken  round  three  or  four  times  immediately 
after  the  first  entree  has  been  served.  Sherry  and  claret  only  are  put  for 
the  dessert.     Port  and  Madeira  are  rarely  seen  now. 

As  soon  as  the  hostess  thinks  that  her  lady-guests  have  finished  their  des- 
sert, she  bows  to  the  lady  of  the  most  distinction,  and  then  all  the  ladies  rise 
and  leave  the  dining-room — the  hostess  remaining  the  last  to  go  out.  The 
ladies  amuse  themselves  in  the  drawing-room  till  the  gentlemen  join 
them. 

During  the  interval  the  hostess  must  endeavour  to  amuse  her  guests 
as  she  best  can.  Coffee  is  handed,  and  sometimes  a  young  lady  will  play 
or  sing,  and  the  hostess  must  never  relax  her  quiet  and  unobtrusive 
endeavours  to  make  the  evening  pleasant.  Observation,  tact,  and  a  little 
information  on  the  events  of  the  day,  are  required  to  make  a  perfect 
hostess. 

Pleasant  and  lady-like  habits  at  table  are  easily  acquired,  if  carefully 
observed  daily.  But  "  manner  "  requires  as  much,  or  mo?-e,  practice  than 
music,  and  no  one  will  attain  a  polished  ease  in  society  unless  she  practises 
its  habits  continually,  and  at  all  times,  in  her  domestic  circle.  She  can- 
not put  on  a  habit,  or  a  graceful  manner,  when  she  will ;  it  must  be  a 
thing  of  daily  life.  And,  allow  me  to  say,  that  care  bestowed  upon  it  will 
add  greatly  to  the  comfort  and  happiness  of  home,  as  well  as  relieve  the 
oppression  of  awkwardness  and  shyness  in  society. 

Now  we  will  describe  a  plain  family  dinner,  which  taxes  more  closely 
the  attention  and  hospitality  of  the  host  and  hostess. 

In  the  dinner  parties  we  have  described  the  hospitality  is  dispensed  by 
the  servants  ;  when  a  quiet  family,  with  perhaps  one  or  two  guests,  meet 
round  the  dinner  table,  a  little  more  supervision  of  their  guests'  comforts 
will  fall  to  the  lot  of  the  lady  and  gentleman  of  the  house. 

Soup  and  fish  are  placed  on  the  table,  and  sent  to  each  person.  It  is 
rude  and  inhospitable  to  ask  a  guest  whether  he  will  take  soup 
or  fish.  He  will  probably  take  both ;  and  it  limits  him  to  one  by 
the  question.  It  should  be  helped  and  sent  round  by  the  servant 
waiting. 

The  same  mode  is  pursued  with  the  side  dishes — they  are  handed 
round  ;  the  end  dishes  are  helped  and  handed  round. 

It  has  been  the  fashion  for  the  last  two  years  to  hand  cold  and  hot 
dishes  alternately  at  dinner.  Vegetables  and  sauces  are  handed  as 
cu'ckly  as  possible  by  the  footman  or  parlour-maid.  "Wine  is  offered 
by  the  servants  after  soup  or  fish  and  during  dinner,  as  described 
above. 

A  lady  ought  to  know  how  to  carve,  and  it  is  well  for  the  daughters  of 
a  family  to  learn  it  in  their  youth,  that  they  may  not  be  awkward  at  their 
own  table  when  they  marry. 

We  subjoin  a  few  plain  directions  for  carving  and  helping. 

Of  soup  we  have  already  spoken. 


298 


Carv'un 


Fish  is  cut  with  a  silver  fish-slice,  or  the  more  modern  large  silver  fish 
knife  and  fork. 

Large  flat  fish,  as  turbot,  brill,  John  Dorey,  etc.,  must  first  be  cut  from 


Turbot. 


Middle  Cut  of  Salmon. 


head  to  tail  down  the  middle,  and  then  in  portions  across  to  the  fin,  which 
being  considered  a  delicacy,  is  helped  with  the  rest.     {See  cut) 

Salmon  is  cut  in  slices  down  the  middle  of  the  upper  side,  as  from  A 
to  B,  and  then  in  slices  across  D  to 
C,  and  a  little  of  the  "thick,"  or 
upper  side,  and  "thin,"  or  under 
side,  are  put  on  each  plate. 

A  mackerel  divides  between  four 
people  ;  the  fish  knife  is  passed 
between  the  upper  and  under  side 
from  head  to  tail,  and  each  side  is 
halved  to  help.  Cod  is  cut  cross- 
ways,  like  salmon,  from  C  to  B,  and 
in  down  slices  as  from  A  to  B,  and 
a  small  piece  of  the  sound  is  sent 
with  each  helping.  Small  fish,  as  smelts,  are  sent  whole,  one  on  each 
plate  ;  as  are  whiting. 

Fried  soles  are  cut  across  right  through  the  bone.     The  "  shoulder,"  or 
head  end,  should  be  first  helped. 

A  sirloin  of  beef  is  cut  across  for  the  under-cut,  and  lengthways  for  the 


Cod  Fish. 


Sirloin  of  Beef, 
upper.    You  should  ask  your  guest  if  he  or  she  prefers  the  under-cut, 


Carving. 


299 


which  is  by  some  considered  the  most  delicate  part  of  the  beef,  and  is 
disliked  by  others.     Slices  from  the  under-cut  should  be  thick. 

Rolled  ribs,  and  a  round  of 
beef,  are  easily  carved  in  horizontal 
slices  over  the  whole  surface. 
The  slices  should  be  very  thin. 

Boiled  beef  should  also  be 
cut  in  thin  horizontal  slices  the 
size  of  the  joint  itself  in  length 
and  breadth.     {See  cut.) 

Mutton  appears  on  the  table 
in  four  forms — the  saddle,  the 
leg,  the  shoulder,  the  loin. 

The  saddle  is  the  joint  ordered 
for  a   large   dinner-party.      It  is 
cut  in  very  thin  slices  ciose  to  the  backbone ;  B  to  A  and  then  down- 


Aitch-Bone. 


Saddle  of  Mutton. 

wards  from  A  to  D  and  C  ;  but  a  lady  is  scarcely  ever  required  in  the 
present  day  to  carve  a  saddle  of  mutton. 

A  shoulder  must  lie  with  the  knuckle  towards  your  right,  and  the  blade - 
bone  towards  your  left  hand. 


Shoulder  of  Mutton. 


Shoulder  of  Mutton 


In  the  middle  of  the  edge  of  the  part  farthest  from  you  place  the  fork, 
and  then  give  one  sharp  cut  from  the  edge  to  the  bone.     The  meat  flies 


;oo 


Carving. 


apart,  and  you  cut  rather  thick  slices  on  each  side  of  the  opening  A  to  B 
till  you  can  cut  no  more. 

You  will  then  rind  two  or  three  slices  from  the  centre  bone  to  the  end 
B  to  C.  Afterwards  the  joint  must  be  turned  over,  and  slices  cut  from  the 
under-side. 

Some  people,  instead  of  cutting  the  joint  in  this  manner,  begin  with 
slices  cut  lengthways  near  the  middle  of  the  joint  from  the  end  to  the 
knuckle,  and  it  is  a  better  way. 

A  leg  of  mutton  must  be  placed  with  the  knuckle  towards  your  left 


Leg  of  Mutton. 

hand ;  you  then  cut  into  the  side  farthest  from  you  towards  the  bone 
B  to  C,  helping  thin  slices  from  the  right  and  thick  slices  towards  the 
knuckle.  The  little  tuft  of  fat  near  the  thick  end  is  a  delicacy,  and  must 
be  divided  amongst  your  guests. 

A  loin  of  mutton  is  carved  either  through  the  joints,  which  brings 
it  into  the  form  of  "  chops,"  or  it  is  cut  lengthways,  in  a  parallel  line 
with  the  joints.  The  latter  is  the  best  mode  for  a  lady,  but  a  loin  is 
rather  for  family  consumption  than  for  guests. 

A  fore-quarter  of  lamb  consists  of  a  shoulder,  the  breast,  and  the  ribs, 
and,  alas !  when  the  carver  has  to  dissect  it !  If  a  lady  is  obliged  to  carve 
this  joint,  she  must  first  place  her  knife  upon  the  shoulder,  draw  it  through 
horizontally,  and  then  remove  the  joint  whole,  placing  it  on  a  separate 


Fore  Quarter  of  Lamb. 


dish,  which  is  held  for  its  reception.  She  must  then  cut  off  the  breast  and 
separate  the  ribs  {see  cut)  ;  but  the  cook  should  always  cut  off  the 
shoulder,  and  leave  it  on  the  joint. 

The  hind-quarter  consists  of  a  leg  and  loin. 


Carving. 


301 


A  fillet  of  veal  is  cut  in  horizontal  slices  like  a  round  of  beef ;  they 


Fillet  of  Veal. 

must  not  be  too  thin.    The  stnfnng  in  the  centre  is  taken  out  and  helped 
with  a  spoon. 


Breast  of  Veal. 


In  a  breast  of  veal  the  ribs  should  be  first  separated  from  the  brisket, 
after  which  either  or  both  may  be  sent  round. 

A  calf  s  head  must  be  cut  down  the  centre  in  rather  thin  slices  on  each 
side.  The  meat  round  the  eye  is  scooped  out ;  it  is  considered  a  delicacy. 
A  small  piece  of  the  palate  and  accompanying  sweetbread  must  be  sent  on 
each  plate. 


Half  of  Calf  s  Head. 

Roast  pork  is  never  seen  at  dinner  parties,  but  is  occasionally  served 
at  a  family  dinner. 

The  leg  is  carved  like  a  leg  of  mutton,  but  the  slices  should  be  thicker 
and  not  so  large. 


302 


Carving:, 


A  ham  may  be  cut  in  three  ways — ist.  By  beginning  at  the  knuckle, 
which  must  be  turned  towards  your  left  hand,  and  cut   in  a 


slanting 


direction  ;  or  at  the  thick  end,  which  is  then  turned  towards  your  left ;  or 
in  the  ordinary  manner,  like  a  leg  of  mutton,  beginning  in  the  centre. 

The  slices  must  be  as  thin  and  delicate  as  you  can  possibly  cut  them. 
One  slice  is  given  as  accompaniment  to  fowl  or  veal. 

A  rabbit    has    the    legs    and    shoulders    removed    with    a    sharp- 


pointed  knifr 


Boiled  Rabbit. 
then  the  back  is  broken  into 


three  or  four  pieces  at  the 


joints. 

Hare  is  thus  carved  :  First  take  off  the  legs.  Cut  two  long  thin 
slices  off  each  side  of  the  back  B  to  A  ;  then  take  off  the  shoulders,  and 
break  the    back    into  four    pieces    with  the    fork.     Cut    off  the   ears, 


I  Lire. 

insert  the  point  of  the  knife  exactly  in  the  centre  of  the  palate,  and 
drawing  it  to  the  nose,  split  the  head  in  two.  But  when  only  a  small 
portion  of  the  hare  is  eaten,  and  it  is  only  served  at  second  course,  it  is 
more  elegant  for  a  lady  to  help  a  portion  of  the  side  with  a  spoon,  as 
we  have  often  seen  done. 

The  best  parts  of  a  hare  are  the  slices  from  the  back,  the  head,  and 
cars.  But  ladies  never  eat  the  two  latter.  They  should  be  sent  to  any 
gentleman  guest  who  is  known  to  be  an  epicure. 


Carving.  — Morning  Parties. 


303 


A  chicken  is  carved  thus  :  Take  off  the  wings,  cut  slices  from  the 
breast,  take  off  the  merrythought  and  side  bones.  The  liver  wing  is  the 
best  part  of  the  chicken  after  the  breast ;  but  you  should  help  the  breast 


Roast  Fowl. 


Boiled  Turkey. 


first,  then  both  wings.  If  you  have  many  to  help,  manage  to  reserve  a 
slice  of  white  meat  to  send  with  the  legs  and  sides. 

A  partridge  is  carved  like  a  fowl ;  so  is  a  pheasant. 

A  pigeon  is  cut  in  halves  right  down  the  middle,  and  half  is  sent  at 
once  to  the  guest. 

A  snipe  is  treated  in  the  same  way. 

Very  small  birds  are  sent  whole. 

A  turkey  and  goose  are  helped  by  cutting  slices  off  the  breast,  and 
then  the  wings  and  legs  are  taken  off.  Wild  duck  is  helped  in  the  same 
manner. 


Haunch  of  Venison. 

A  haunch  of  venison  should  be  cut  from  A  to  B  close  to  the  knuckle. 
{See  ait  first.)     Then  from  C  to  A  * 

Coffee  is  sent  to  the  gentlemen  in  the  dining-room.  Tea  only  is 
handed  after  dinner  when  the  gentlemen  have  left  the  dinner-table. 


MOUSING  PARTIES. 

Morning  parties,  ja  called  (royal  breakfasts  occuring  at  5  P.M.  occa- 
sionally), are  generally  given  during  the  summer  or  autumn  months.  In 
town  they  are  garden  parties,  breakfasts,  five  o'clock  teas,  or  concerts  ;  in 
the  country,  lawn-tennis  or  archery  meetings. 

At  the  garden  parties  a  splendid  dejeuner  a  la  Fourchette  is  presented 
to  the  guests. 

A  garden  party  begins  at  about  four  o'clock,  and  usually  ends  at 


*  For  fuller  directions  for  carving  see  Warne's  "  Mcdel  Cookery." 


304  Evening  Parties. 

seven,  but  very  frequently  the  guests  conclude  the  evening  by  a  dance, 
and  sometimes  a  regular  dinner-party  and  ball  follow  it. 

But  we  will  speak  of  the  ordinary  lawn-tennis  party. 

Invitations  to  garden  parties  name  the  hour  of  meeting  and  that  of 
leaving,  generally  from  four  to  seven,  and  state  whether  lawn-tennis  will  be 
played,  etc.     Croquet  is  now  completely  exploded  as  a  fashionable  game. 

It  is  usual  to  play  until  about  six  o'clock  ;  then  the  players  go  into  the 
house  to  tea. 

The  "tea"  is  a  substantial  meal,  consisting  of  all  kinds  of  cold 
delicacies,  chickens,  mayonaise,  ham,  ducks,  etc.  etc.  ;  all  kinds  of  sweets 
and  fruits  ;  tea  and  coffee.  There  is  frequently  champagne  for  the 
gentlemen,  but  wine  is  not  de  rigueur,  and  is  rarely  given. 

These  country  meetings  are  remarkably  pleasant  and  social. 

After  tea,  unless  invited  to  remain  for  the  evening,  the  visitors  take 
their  departure. 

At  morning  concerts  no  refreshments  are  offered. 

"Five  o'clock  Tea"  is  now  a  very  popular  form  of  entertainment, 
though  more  favoured  by  ladies  than  gentlemen.  For  the  large  and 
ceremonious  five  o'clock  tea  (of  generally  from  fifty  guests  and  upwards) 
professional  music,  both  vocal  and  instrumental,  is  generally  provided. 
The  tea  is  served  in  the  dining  room,  and  consists  of  tea  and  coffee  in 
large  urns,  sherry,  champagne  cup,  claret  cup,  ices,  fruit,  fancy  biscuits 
and  cakes,  thin  bread  and  butter,  potted  game,  sandwiches,  etc.  No 
plates  are  used  except  for  ices  and  fruit.  For  small  teas  similar  refresh- 
ments are  given  on  a  smaller  scale,  and  the  tea  is  served  in  the  smaller 
or  back  drawing  room  ;  it  is  dispensed  then  by  the  ladies  of  the  family 
themselves,  not  by  servants  ;  in  the  small  friendly  five  o'clock  tea  only 
tea,  cakes,  and  bread  and  butter  are  served,  and  there  is  no  entertain- 
ment but  conversation.  Carriages  are  always  kept  waiting  at  afternoon 
teas,  for  ladies  frequently  only  remain  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  At  these 
afternoon  teas  the  hostess  does  not  ring  to  order  the  door  to  be  opened  to 
the  departing  guest,  or  for  her  carriage.  The  lady  makes  her  own  way 
to  the  hall  and  the  servants  there  call  up  the  carriage.* 

EVENING  PABTIES, 

Evening  parties  vary  extremely.  They  are  sometimes  for  cards, 
sometimes  for  music,  sometimes  for  a  conversazione  with  occasional 
singing,  sometimes  a  friendly  dance  ;  but  this  should  be  specified  in  the 
invitation. 

Evening  parties  commence  generally  at  nine  o'clock,  but  occasionally 
at  eight,  and  generally  end  at  half-past  eleven. 

The  rooms  should  be  prepared  for  the  guests  at  least  two  hours 
previously,  so  that  the  hostess  may  not  be  hurried.  Plenty  of  flowers 
should  adorn  them  ;  if  the  evening  is  for  conversation,  etc.,  only,  a  chess 
table  and  a  whist  table  should  be  placed  for  any  persons  who  may  prefer 
them.  The  piano  should  be  open  ;  choice  books  and  prints  or  photo- 
graphs placed  on  the  table,  and  the  seats  arranged  not  round  the  room, 
but  in  groups,  so  that  people  may  sit  about  it  as  they  please. 

A  great  deal  of  light — in  the  form  of  wax  candles  it  is  pleasantest— 


*  See  "  Manners  and  Tone  of  Good  Society." 


Light  Supper  on  Tray.  3°5 

should  be  given,  and  ventilation  should  be  as  good  as  it  is  possible 
to  give. 

There  should  be  a  room  for  the  guests  to  uncloak  in  ;  the  same  apart- 
ment sometimes  serves  for  tea  and  coffee. 

A  long  table  should  be  covered  with  a  white  table-cloth  ;  two  neatly- 
dressed  maids  should  preside  over  tea,  coffee,  cake,  biscuits,  and  thin 
bread  and  butter,  and  as  each  group  or  individual  finishes  tea  or  coffee 
they  leave  the  room,  and  the  footman  announces  them  in  the  drawing- 
room.  -,  Here  the  hostess  receives  them  at  the  door  kindly  and  graciously, 
and  they  pass  about  the  rooms  to  greet  friends,  etc.  etc. 

The  hostess,  when  all  are  arrived,  should  move  about  amongst  her 
guests,  seeing  that  every  one  is  amused,  and  having  herself  a  bright  word 
and  a  kind  smile  for  every  one.  Cards,  music,  and  conversation  should  bo 
set  afloat.  Tact  or  an  earnest  desire  to  promote  her  friends'  pleasure 
will  make  a  good  hostess.     Trouble  must  not  be  spared. 

Supper  must  be  served  at  ten  or  half-past  ten. 

As  few  families  possess  glass,  china,  and  plate  enough  for  a  large 
gathering,  these  as  well  as  rout  seats,  if  required,  are  to  be  hired  at  glass 
and  china  shops.  If  a  pastrycook  is  employed  to  supply  the  supper,  he 
will  find  also  the  things  required. 

For  mere  friendly  suppers  a  pastrycook  need  not  be  employed,  as  the 
lady's  taste  will  superintend  laying  the  supper,  which  may  be  light  and 
elegant  merely.  When  space  is  wanting,  the  ladies  frequently  sit  down  to 
supper  alone,  and  the  gentlemen  stand  by  them  and  wait  on  them  ;  then 
the  ladies  leave  the  supper  room  and  the  gentlemen  take  their  place.  The 
servants  in  this  case  should  be  told  to  replace  half  finished  or  empty  dishes 
by  duplicates. 

Occasionally  people  who  wish  for  music  or  a  little  chat  do  not  sit 
down  to  supper  at  all.  A  tray  is  brought  into  the  drawing-room  or  a  table 
spread  in  a  corner,  and  everything  is  handed  and  eaten  where  the  guest  is. 
In  this  case  only  sandwiches,  oyster  patties,  veal  patties,  lobster  patties, 
and  sweets  of  all  kinds  are  served,  the  late  dinners  of  the  present  day 
rendering  light  suppers  imperative  unless  they  follow  dancing,  and  are 
very  late. 

During  the  evening,  when  the  party  is  large  and  formal,  ices  and  wine 
are  occasionally  handed.  We  give  a  few  lists  of  suppers  for  evening 
parties. 

The  dress  for  these  entertainments  varies,  but  the  present  fashion  is 
half  toilette — not  ball  costume,  unless  dancing  is  specified  on  the  card  of 
♦nvitation. 

Light  Supper  on  Tray, 

Sandwiches  of  ham,  tongue,  and  beef.  Lobster  patties  or  oyster 
patties,  veal  patties,  jelly.  Blancmange  or  cream,  tartlets  and  cheese- 
cakes. Cake,  biscuits.  Sherry.  Claret  cup  in  summer,  or  mulled  claret 
in  winter. 


3o6 


The  Bali-Room. 


Ham  Sliced. 

Flower 
Ring, 
and  Preserves, 
Claret  Jelly. 
Strawberries. 
Cheesecakes. 
Sandwiches 
of  Beef. 

Flower 
Ring. 
Stone  Cream. 
Cherries. 
Veal  Patties. 


Small  Supper. 

Cold  Chicken. 


Tongue  Slices. 
Flower 
Ring, 
and  Preserves. 

Lemon  Cream. 

Cherries. 

Tipsey  Cake.  Tartlets. 

Ornaments.  Sandwiches 

Trifle.  of  Ham. 

Flower 

Ring. 

Calf's  Feet  Jelly. 
Strawberries. 
Lobster  Patties. 
Cold  Lamb, 
Fore-quarter. 


Scalloped  Fish  (Cod). 

Grapes. 

Sandwiches. 
Partridges. 
Tartlets. 

Oranges. 

Vols-au-Vent. 


Winter  Supper. 
Cold  Chicken. 

Meringues. 
Trifle. 

Vase  of  Flowers. 

Tipsey  Cake. 

Cream. 

Ham. 


Oyster  Patties. 

Oranges. 
Cheesecakes. 

Pheasants. 
Sandwiches. 

Grapes. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 


THE  BALL-ROOM. 

Invitations  to  a  ball  should  be  issued  by  the  lady  of  the  house  in  her 
Own  name  only,  about  three  weeks  before  the  night  fixed  on  for  it. 

The  requisites  for  an  agreeable  ball  are — a  good  room,  good  music, 
and  a  good  supper.  It  is  of  all  entertainments  the  most  extravagant — a 
large  ball  in  London  generally  costing  about  300/.  Great  quantities  of 
flowers  are  used  to  adorn  the  rooms  ;  they  often  cost  50/. ;  lights  are 
placed  before  reflectors  on  the  walls — as  chandeliers  are  dangerous,  and 
gas  gives  an  unbecoming  glare.  The  carpet  should  be  taken  up,  the 
floor  polished — but  not  so  as  to  blacken  the  ladies'  shoes.  A  good  band 
should  be  hired  for  the  occasion. 

The  lady  who  gives  the  ball  must  linger  till  supper-time  near  the 
door  of  the  ball-room,  to  receive  and  welcome  her  guests.  She  should 
have  a  smile  and  a  few  gracious  words  for  every  one. 

The  sons  and  daughters  of  the  family  must  take  care    to  provide 


The  Bail-Room.  :oJ 

partners  for  their  friends.  A  well-bred  young  lady  does  not  dance  till 
she  has  seen  that  her  young  lady-friends,  generally,  have  partners. 

The  right  of  introducing  partners  rests  chiefly  with  the  ladies  and 
gentlemen  of  the  house  ;  but  a  chaperon  may  introduce  a  gentleman  to 
her  charge,  and  an  intimate  gentleman-friend  may  introduce  an  acquain- 
tance to  a  partner. 

A  young  lady  must  be  very  careful  how  she  refuses  to  dance  with  a 
gentleman  ;  and  she  ought,  indeed,  to  have  a  good  reason  for  so  doing. 
She  can  only  say  she  does  not  wish  to  dance  that  dance  (with  which 
answer  a  gentleman  will  be  satisfied),  or  that  she  is  engaged. 

But  if  she  refuses  one  gentleman,  she  has  no  right  to  accept  another 
for  the  same  dance  ;  and  she  must  be  extremely  careful  not  to  engage 
herself  to  two  gentlemen  for  the  same  dance. 

Flirtation  is  always  vulgar,  but  it  is  perhaps  less  dangerous  in  a  ball- 
room than  out  of  one  ;  still,  very  well-bred  girls  will  not  dance  too  often 
with  the  same  partner,  nor  linger  too  long  away  from  their  chaperon. 
Three  dances  are  quite  as  much  as  a  young  lady  should  give  to  the  same 
partner. 

Public  balls  are  not  much  frequented  by  people  in  good  society,  except 
in  watering-places  and  country-towns  ;  even  then  a  young  lady  should 
only  be  seen  at  two  or  three  in  the  course  of  the  year — as,  for  example,  a 
county-ball,  a  race-ball,  a  hunt-ball.  At  public  balls  there  are  generally 
three  or  four  stewards,  who  have  to  order  the  dances,  change  them  if 
desirable,  and  introduce  partners  to  the  young  ladies.  But  young  ladies 
of  good  station  generally  dance  with  members  of  their  own  party.  They 
must  on  no  account  dance  with  a  gentleman  at  a  public  ball  unless  he 
be  presented  by  the  stewards,  or  by  a  friend. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  recognise  a  ball-room  acquaintance  the  next 
day,  unless  you  choose  to  do  so.  The  introduction  is  for  a  dance,  and 
not  for  future  acquaintanceship.  To  act  on  it  afterwards  depends  entirely 
on  the  will  of  the  lady  ;  and  she  is  not  ill-bred  if  she  ignores  her  partner's 
existence  the  next  day. 

If  you  give  a  carpet  dance  to  your  young  friends,  take  care  to  provide 
at  least  two  musicians  :  a  harpist  and  a  pianoforte  player  are  the  best. 
You  should  on  no  account  tax  the  good  nature  and  fingers  of  your  friends 
by  asking  them  to  play  for  you. 

A  ball  supper  is  far  beyond  the  means  of  any  ordinary  household  to 
prepare.  It  would  be  cheapest  and  best  to  engage  a  first-rate  pastrycook 
to  supply  it  at  so  much  a  head.  He  will  then  undertake  the  whole 
responsibility,  and  the  thing  will  be  well  done.  During  the  last  season  a 
novel  and  delicious  mode  of  decorating  a  ball-room  was  introduced. 
Pillars  made  of  solid  blocks  of  Norway  ice,  clear  and  sparkling  like 
diamonds,  were  placed  at  intervals  down  the  room  on  each  side.  They 
stood  in  great  pans  in  which  water-lilies  had  been  placed,  and  as  they 
slowly  melted  in  the  heat  and  dripped  into  these  great  tubs  of  stone,  the 
lilies  floated  on  the  water.  The  coolness  of  the  air  produced  by  this 
device  can  scarcely  be  conceived  if  not  felt. 

Ball  dress  is  the  extreme  of  full  dress,  and  should  be  that  which  is 
the  fashion  of  the  day. 

X    2 


»o8       Cold  Spring  and  Summer  Luncheon  for  a  Large  Party. 

Christmas  Dinners. 

Moderate. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup.  Cod. 

Side  Dishes  Handed. 

Stewed  Mushrooms  and  Rabbit  Curry. 

Principal  Dishes. 

Sirloin  of  Beef  and  Yorkshire  Pudding.  Roast  Turkey 

Vegetables — Potato  Balls.     Sea  Kale.     Stewed  Celery,  or 

Jerusalem  Artichokes. 

Second  Course. 

Plum  Pudding.  Mince  Pies. 

Grouse.  Lamb's  Wool. 

Expensive. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup.  Swan  Giblet  Soup. 

Brill.  Cutlets  of  Cod. 

Side  Dishes  Handed. 

Oyster  Patties.  Truffles  au  Naturel. 

Rabbit  Curry.  Kromeskies.  Souffle  of  Chicken. 

Principal  Dishes. 

Swan.  Boar's  Head. 

Second  Course. 

Woodcocks.  Pheasant. 

Plum  Pudding.         Mince  Pies.         Wassail  Bowl.         Furmity. 

Cold  Spring  and  Summer  Luncheon  for  a  Large  Party. 

Cold  Salmon. 

Apricot  Jam  Tart.  Jaunemange. 

Lobster  Salad.                           Ham.  Strawberries. 

jelly.  Custards. 

Chickens  and  Tongue.               Flowers.  Pigeon  Pie. 

Cherries.                     Mayonnaise  ot  Chicken.  Lobster  Salad. 

Cutlets  of  Fowl  and  Tongue.  Chocolate  Pastry. 

Strawberry  Cream.  Cold  Cutlets. 

Fore-quarter  of  Lamb. 

CHRISTMAS    RECEIPTS. 


To  Dress  a  Boar's  Head. 
(An  Ancient  Christmas  Dish.) 
After  scalding   off  the  hair  from 
the  head,  and  removing  the  snout, 


boned  ;  then  place  it  in  a  deep  pan, 
with  the  tongue  and  about  two 
pounds  of  the  boar's  flesh,  add  a 
bundle  of  thyme,  parsley,  and  sage, 
one  eschalot,  about  two  tablespoon- 


have    it  thoroughly     cleaned     and  fuls  of  salt  and  a  few  peppercorns^ 


To  Cook  a  Boar's  Head,  etc 


3°9 


pour  over  the  whole  sufficient  vinegar 
and  water  to  cover  the  head,  and  let 
it  stand  three  days  ;  then  drain  it 
from  the  liquor  and  fill  up  in  it  every 
vacancy  (made  by  withdrawing  the 
bones)  with  the  tongue  and  the  neck, 
cut  into  very  thin  slices,  and  rolled 
together ;  when  the  head  is  filled, 
and  its  form  perfected  sew  it  up  and 
tie  it  in  a  cloth. 

Put  it  into  a  stewpan,  with  the 
liquor  drained  from  the  head,  a  few- 
cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  pint  of  sherry ;  let  it  simmer 
slowly  for  seven  hours,  then  take  it 
out,  and  when  quite  cold,  remove 
the  cloth  and  the  stitches.  Place  it 
in  a  dish,  glaze*  it  well,  and  stick 
in  the  tusks,  put  a  lemon  in  its 
mouth,  and  serve  it  on  a  folded 
napkin,  decorated  with  pieces  of 
Christmas  and  rosemary. 

To  Ccok  a  Boar's  Head. 

The  following  receipt  for  dressing 
a  boar's  head  is  a  French  one : — 
The  head  must  be  well  singed,  and 
rubbed  with  a  piece  of  brick  to  re- 
move the  hair.  Scrape  it  with  a 
knife,  and  clean  it  well ;  bone  it,  and 
cut  out  the  two  jaw-bones,  and  take 
off  the  snout  ;  slit  it  underneath,  so 
that  it  may  stick  to  the  skin  on  the 
top,  and  take  out  the  brain  and 
tongue,  and  rub  some  salt  into  all 
the  parts  of  the  flesh.  Put  the  head 
together  again,  wrap  it  up  and  tie  it 
in  a  cloth,  then  put  it  into  a  saucepan 
of  hot  water,  with  some  leaf-fat  of  a 
pig,  two  bay  leaves,  all  kinds  of  i 
sweet  herbs,  coriander,  and  aniseed,  i 
salt,  nutmeg,  and  cloves  pounded, 
some  rosemary,  and  an  onion.  When  j 
half  boiled  add  a  quart  of  wine,  and 
let  the  whole  boil  for  twelve  hours.  I 
When  sufficiently  boiled,  let  it  cool 
in  its  own  liquor.     When  cold,  put  j 


it  in  a  dish  and  serve  it  up.  The 
tongue  may  also  be  boiled  in  the 
same  liquor.  Put  a  lemon  in  the 
mouth,  and  decorate  with  sprigs  of 
rosemary  and  Christmas. 

Boar's  Head  Sauce. 

Juice  of  two  Seville  oranges,  one 
spoonful  of  mixed  English  mustard, 
four  spoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  half  a  pint  of 
port  wine  :  mix  all  together  and 
serve. 

Boast  Swan. 

This  splendid  dish,  worthy  of  a 
piince's  table,  is  only  too  locally 
known.  It  is,  of  course,  only 
eligible  for  the  table  in  its  cyg- 
net state.  Young  swans  are  called 
cygnets  from  the  Latin  name  for  the 
parent  bird,  cygnus  olor.  The  swan 
of  our  rivers  and  ornamental  waters 
is  the  mute  or  tame  swan,  kept  from 
flying  away  by  having  one  of  its 
wings  pinioned.  The  mute  swan 
pairs,  and  builds  its  nest  amongst 
the  rushes  on  the  shores  of  small 
islands  in  the  river  or  the  banks  of 
pieces  of  water.  With  wonderful 
instinct  these  nests  are  built  up  to 
some  height,  in  order  to  preserve  the 
young  birds  from  any  sudden  rising 
of  the  waters.  The  cygnets  when 
hatched  are  of  a  slaty  grey,  which 
grows  lighter  as  they  grow  older.  The 
cygnets  of  the  wild  swan  are  white. 

But  it  is  of  the  grey  cygnets  we 
have  to  speak.  They  are  hatched  in 
June.  If  it  is  intended  to  eat  them 
they  must  be  taken  from  their 
parents  and  put  into  a  separate 
swan  pond,  at  the  end  of  August  or 
first  week  in  September. 

After  they  have  been  "hopped  or 
upped,"  as  it  is  called,  from  their 
native  place  grass  is  thrown  to  them 


*  A  Glaze. — One  dessert  spoonful  of  Indian  Soy  and  the  white  of  one 
egg.  This  is  sufficient  for  two  Hams  or  three  Tongues,  or  for  rather  more  than 
a  Boar's  head. 


Swan  Giblet  Soup. 


twice  a  day  with  their  other  food  for 
a  fortnight.  They  are  fattened  on 
barley ;  a  coomb  each  cygnet  suf- 
fices for  the  fattening.  The  corn  is 
set  in  shallow  tubs  just  under  water. 

Cygnets  can  only  be  fattened  be- 
fore the  white  feathers  appear  ;  after 
that  no  feeding  will  do  any  good  ;  as 
soon  as  a  white  feather  shows  they 
will  cease  fattening,  no  matter  what 
food  they  have.  They  can  conse- 
quently only  be  eaten  in  December, 
and  are  a  capital  and  very  magnifi- 
cent Christmas  dish.  Their  weight 
then  will  be  from  25  lbs.  to  28  lbs. 

We  give  now  the  "how  to  cook 
swans"  supplied  to  the  Publishers 
from  the  place  where  the  dish  is 
native,  i.e.  Norfolk. 

Time,  two  hours  for  1 3  lbs.  weight. 
Cygnet  must  not  be  skinned ;  pick 
the  bird,  and  truss  like  a  goose ; 
take  two  pounds  of  rumpsteak, 
chop  it  fine,  season  well  with  spice, 
a  piece  of  onion  or  shalot,  and 
butter.  Rub  the  breast  both  inside 
and  outside  with  beaten  cloves,  then 
stuff  with  the  above,  taking  care  to 
sew  the  bird  up  carefully  and  to  tie 
it  up  very  tightly  on  the  spit,  so  that 
the  gravy  may  not  escape.  Enclose 
the  breast  of  the  Swan  in  a  meal 


paste,  after  which  cover  the  whole 
bird  with  paper  well  greased  with 
beef  dripping.  About  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  before  the  bird  is  taken  up 
remove  the  paper  and  the  paste, 
baste  well  with  butter  and  flour  till 
brown  and  frothy.  A  swan  of  1 3  lbs. 
weight  requires  about  two  hours 
roasting,  with  a  fire  not  too  fierce. 
Cut  out  some  tiny  swans  in  white 
turnip  for  garnish,  put  a  swan  (in 
turnip)  on  each  leg  and  each  wing, 
and  a  paper  frill,  nicely  cut,  about 
the  shoulders* — See  Plate.  A 
squeeze  of  lemon  improves  swan 
when  eaten,  and  fried  bread  crumbs 
should  be  served  with  it. 

Swan  Giblet  Soup. 

Cut  six  pounds  of  the  knuckle  of 
veal,  and  one  pound  of  lean  ham  in 
a  large  dish,  add  three  onions,  two 
turnips,  one  carrot,  two  heads  of 
celery,  a  small  piece  of  sweet  basil, 
marjoram,  thyme,  parsley,  and  bay 
leaf,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt. 
Butter  a  stewpan  lightly,  put  in  the 
whole  of  the  ingredients,  add  five 
cloves,  two  blades  of  mace,  and  half 
a  pint  of  water,  stew  it  over  a  brisk 
fire  about  twenty  minutes  ;  when  it 
becomes  a  nice  light  brown  colour 


*  TO   ROAST  A  SWAN. 

Take  three  pounds  of  beef,  beat  fine  in  a  mortar, 

Put  it  into  the  Swan — that  is,  when  you've  caught  her. 

Some  pepper,  salt,  mace,  some  nutmeg,  an  onion, 

Will  heighten  the  flavour  in  gourmands'  opinion. 

Then  tie  it  up  tight  with  a  small  piece  of  tape, 

That  the  gravy,  and  other  things  may  not  escape. 

A  meal  paste  (rather  stiff)  should  be  laid  on  the  breast, 

And  some  whited  brown  paper  should  cover  the  rest. 

Fifteen  minutes  at  least  ere  the  swan  you  take  down, 

Pull  the  paste  off  the  bird  that  the  breast  may  get  brown. 


THE  GRAVY. 


To  a  gravy  of  beef  (good  and  strong)  I  opine, 
You'll  be  right  if  you  add  half  a  pint  of  port  wine  : 
Pour  this  through  the  Swan — yes,  quite  through  the  belly, 
Then  serve  the  whole  up  with  some  hot  currant  jelly. 


Lamb's  Wool. — Furmity— Punch,  etc. 


in 


add  eight  quarts  of  water,  directly 
it  boils  place  it  at  the  corner  of  the 
stove,  scald  the  giblets  in  boiling 
water,  take  them  out  and  cut  them 
into  joints,  the  gizzard  in  four  pieces, 
put  them  into  the  stock,  and  let 
them  simmer  gently  until  they  are 
quite  tender,  take  them  out,  strain 
the  gravy  through  a  cloth,  skim 
off  every  particle  of  grease,  put  it 
into  a  clean  stewpan  with  the 
giblets,  and  thicken  it  with  arrow- 
root dissolved  first  in  cold  water, 
but  do  not  make  it  too  thick  ;  finish 
by  adding  half  a  pint  of  sherry,  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  two 
grains  of  cayenne. 

Lamb's  Wool. 

Boil  some  large  cooking  apples 
till  quite  tender,  add  to  them  nut- 
meg and  cloves  ;  beat  them  up  to  a 
pulp,  with  enough  powdered  sugar 
to  sweeten  them,  squeeze  over  them 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  pour  over  them 
part  or  the  whole  of  a  bottle  of 
sherry  as  required,  with  a  wineglass 
of  brandy  ;  beat  well  together,  and 
serve  in  a  glass  dish.    Or, 

Take  a  quart  of  milk  and  half  a 
pint  of  sherry,  make  a  nice  white 
wine  whey  with  it ;  roast  some  crab 
apples,  drop  them  in  the  whey,  and 
send  up  hot  in  a  china  bowl. 

Furmity. 

Furmity,  probably  originally  Fru- 
menty, from  Jrutnentum,  the  Latin 
for  wheat,  is  one  of  our  oldest 
Christmas  dishes. 

It  is  made  of  wheat,  milk,  wine, 
or  brandy,  and  plums,  thus  : — Put  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  wheat  into  a 
saucepan  with  two  pints  of  milk, 
and  boil  it  until  it  is  swollen,  but 
not  broken  ;  then  add  a  quart  of 
new  milk,  two  ounces  of  raisins,  two 
ounces  of  currants,  and  sugar  to 
taste  ;  flavour  with  cinnamon,  and 
boil  it  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;  then 
stir  in  a  wineglass  of  good  brandy 


or  two  wineglasses   of  sherry  (the 
last  is  best),  and  serve. 

Punch. 

Three  lemons,  half  a  pint  of  rum, 
half  a  pint  of  brandy,  sugar  to  taste, 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water. 

Peel  the  lemons  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible, pour  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
water  over  them,  and  cover  them 
closely;  let  them  stand  till  the 
essence  is  thoroughly  drawn  out  of 
the  lemon  peel;  put  the  whole 
(water  and  lemon  peel)  into  a  very 
large  jug,  add  the  rum,  brandy,  and 
the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  sugar ; 
pour  boiling  water  on  it  till  it  is  of 
the  strength  you  require;  strain  it 
into  a  china  bowl  and  serve.  If  it 
is  wished  to  be  drunk  cold  it  must 
stand  before  sending  up.  Steam 
the  bowl  before  the  punch  is  poured 
into  it  hot  or  it  will,  in  frosty  weather, 
crack. 

Punch  can  be  made  with  the  rum 
alone ;  it  is  then  much  cheaper. 

Wassail  Bowl. 

One  bottle  of  sherry,  half  a  pint  of 
cold  water,  six  or  seven  eggs,  ac- 
cording to  size,  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  powdered  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg, 
and  a  few  cloves,  half  a  pound  of 
macaroons,  half  a  pound  of  rata- 
fias, twelve  spongecakes,  one  lemon. 

Grate  the  biscuits  into  an  old 
china  bowl,  and  squeeze  a  lemon 
over  them  ;  beat  the  eggs  thoroughly 
with  the  sugar  and  spice ;  pour  the 
wine  and  water  into  an  enamelled 
saucepan  ;  stir  till  they  boil ;  then 
pour  them  by  degrees  over  the  eggs, 
stirring  one  way  all  the  time.  If  it 
does  not  thicken  put  it  on  the  fire 
and  stir  till  it  does  ;  then  pour  it  hot 
over  the  cakes.     Or, 

The  Wassail  Bowl. 

Ingredients  :  One  pound  of  ma- 
caroons, one  pound  of  ratafias,  twelve 


12 


Winter  Luncheon  Party.— Croquet  Tea. 


spongecakes,  one  lemon,  one  bottle 
of  sherry,  one  quart  of  custard. 

Crumble  the  cakes  altogether  and 
squeeze  the  lemon  juice  on  them, 
pour  over  them  the  greater  part  of 
the  bottle  of  wine,  at  least  enough 
thoroughly  to  saturate  them  ;  lay  on 
the  top  a  rich  custard. 

Make  this  sweet  dish  in  an  old 
china  bowl.  It  makes  an  excellent 
pair  with  the  punchbowl. 

Punch  Jelly. 

Two  ounces  of  isinglass,  one  pint 
and  a  half  of  water,  two  large  lemons, 
two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  two  large 
wineglasses  of  brandy,  the  same 
of  nam, 


Peel  one  lemon,  put  it  with  the 
isinglass  into  the  water,  and  dissolve 
the  isinglass  ;  put  the  juice  of  the 
lemons  and  two  pounds  of  loaf 
sugar  to  the  two  wineglasses  of 
brandy  and  the  rum  ;  strain  the 
isinglass  water  upon  the  lemon 
juice  and  spirits ;  place  it  over  the 
fire  to  become  hot,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil  ;  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  to 
settle,  strain  it  through  a  fine  hair 
sieve  into  the  mould  ;  stand  it  in  a 
very  cold  place,  at  Christmas  it  will 
not  require  ice  to  harden  it ;  shake  it 
the  next  day  gently  into  a  glass  dish  ; 
stick  a  little  spray  of  holly  in  th;; 
top. 


Winter  Luncheon  Party. 

Roast  Turkey. 
Mutton  Cutlets. 

Jelly  of  two  colours. 
Grouse. 
Potato  Balls. 

Ham.  Vase. 

Lemon  Cream.  Cruet  Stand. 

Neapolitan  Pastry. 

Blancmange. 
Cold  Fowls. 

Large  Game  Pie. 


Cold  Fowls. 

Tartlets. 
Custard  pudding. 
Tongue. 

Potato  Balls. 
Partridges. 

Veal  cutlets. 


Lawn  Tennis  Tea. 


Tea. 

Strawberries. 

Cold  Cutlets. 

Cake. 

Cold  Fowl  and  Tongue. 

Pigeon  pie. 

Vase. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Bread. 

Whipped  Cream 

Butter. 

Ham. 

Cherries. 

Quarter  of  Lamb. 

Anchovy  Cutlets. 

Toast. 

Lobster  Salad 

Tartlets. 

Mayonnaise. 

Lemon  Cake. 

Coffee. 

Sweet  Biscuits. 

3*3 
THE  WEDDING. 

The  trousseau,  breakfast,  and  wedding-cake,  are  given  by  the  bride's 
family. 

The  bridesmaids  are  chosen,  and  the  bridegroom's  "  best  man,"  and 
the  guests  are  invited. 

The  number  of  bridesmaids  varies  from  two  to  eight.  The  bride 
generally  dictates  their  dress,  which  should  be  all  alike.  If  the  bride  is 
young,  the  bridesmaids  should  be  young  also  ;  if  the  lady  be  middle-aged, 
her  bridesmaids  may  be  any  age. 

A  widow  has  no  bridesmaids.  Widows  and  ladies  past  their  first 
youth  generally  wear  bonnets.  A  young  bride  should  wear  a  veil,  confined 
round  the  head  by  a  wreath  of  orange-flowers,  or  lilies  of  the  valley. 

As  soon  as  the  carriages  are  at  the  door,  the  bridesmaids  and  mem- 
bers of  the  family  set  off  for  the  church.  The  bride  goes  next  with  her 
father ;  in  some  cases  the  mother  remains  at  home,  but  ladies  now 
generally  attend  their  daughters  to  the  altar.  If  the  bride  has  no  father, 
her  nearest  relative,  or  the  friend  "  who  gives  her  away,"  accompanies 
her  in  her  carriage. 

The  bridegroom,  and  his  best  man,  and  the  bridesmaids  ought  to  be 
waiting  in  the  church-porch.  The  father  of  the  bride  gives  her  his  arm, 
and  leads  her  to  the  altar.  Her  bridesmaids  follow,  and  cluster  behind 
her.  The  chief  bridesmaid  holds  her  gloves  and  bouquet  at  the 
altar. 

The  bride's  bouquet  should  be  formed  of  white  roses — if  in  season — 
azaleas,  white  camellias,  and  a  very  little  orange-blossom,  or  whatever 
white  flower  may  be  obtainable. 

The  bride  quits  the  church  with  the  bridegroom,  and  returns  home 
with  him  alone. 

The  breakfast  follows ;  sometimes  the  bride  and  bridegroom  do  not 
remain  for  it,  but  usually  they  are  present. 

The  wedding-cake  occupies  the  centre  of  the  table— at  each  end  are 
tea  and  coffee.  The  viands  are  cold,  and  may  be  as  many  and  as  costly 
as  you  please.  The  wedding-cake  is  cut  by  the  nearest  gentleman,  and 
handed  round. 

The  clergyman  who  performs  the  marriage  ceremony  is  always  invited 
to  the  breakfast. 

The  father  proposes  the  health  of  the  bride  and  bridegroom  ;  the  latter 
is  expected  to  return  thanks.  The  bridegroom's  man  gives  the  health  of 
the  bridesmaids — for  whom  the  bridegroom  rises  to  return  thanks.  The 
health  of  the  bride's  father  and  mother  is  generally  proposed  by  the 
bridegroom's  father.     The  speeches  are  made  as  short  as  possible. 

Gentlemen  do  not  remain  after  the  ladies  at  a  wedding  breakfast. 
The  bride  retires  and  changes  her  bridal  attire  for  a  travelling  costume. 
This  should  be  good  but  plain,  like  a  handsome  dress  for  morning-calls. 

<  Presents    are  usual  from  the  bridegroom  to  the  bridesmaids.      The 
bride  also  will  generally  bestow  some  souvenir  upon  each. 

The  evening  commonly  concludes  with  a  ball.  Cards  may  be  sent  or 
not,  as  preferred ;  if  not  sent,  the  omission  should  be  announced  (with 
the  marriage)  in  the  Times, 


314 


Country  Visits. 


Wedding  Breakfast  in  Summer. 

Cold  Fore-quarter  of  Lamb. 

Wedding  Cake. 

Veal  Pie. 

Chicken  Pie. 

White  Grapes. 

Cold  Salmon. 

Pigeons  in  Jelly. 

Cherries. 

Cream.                               Strawberries. 

Hams. 

Epergne.                              Tongue. 

Flowers. 

Cold  Ducks. 

Galantine  de  Veau. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Blancmange.                       Lobster  Salad. 

Jelly. 

Apricots. 

Peaches. 

Pigeons  in  Jelly. 

Purple  Grapes.                         Cold  Salmon. 

Sponge  Cakes. 

Wine  Jelly. 

Whipped  Cream. 

Cold  Chickens  and  Tongue. 

Tea  and  Coffee. 

Wedding  Breakfast  in  Winter. 

Soup. 

Cold  Fowls- 

Jelly. 

Cream. 

Pheasant. 

Sponge  Cake.                               Pheasant. 

Oranges. 

Pigeon  Pie. 

Venison  Pasty. 

Vase. 

Ham. 

Tongue. 

Wedding  Cake. 

Tartlets. 

Cheesecakes. 

Veal  Pie. 

Vase.                                   Game  Pie. 

Candied  Fruits. 

Partridges. 

Partridges. 

Blancmange. 

Cutlets. 

or                            Pate  de  fois  gras, 

Jaunemange. 

Pressed  Beef. 

Tea. 

Coffee.           etc. 

COUNTRY  VISITS. 

Visiting  in  the  country  is  always  pleasant.  Nowhere  does  society 
present  a  more  attractive  aspect  than  at  the  well-regulated  countiy-seat. 

The  lady  who  thus  receives  guests  will,  however,  remember  that  the 
truest  good  breeding  and  the  best  means  of  ensuring  the  pleasure  of  her 
guests,  is  to  leave  them  as  much  freedom  to  do  what  they  please  as 
possible. 

The  guest's  bedroom  should  be  furnished  with  a  writing  table,  on 


On  Making  Presents.  315 


which  the  lady  will  place  an  inkstand,  blotting  book,  and  stationery  ; 
and  also  a  Bible.  A  bouquet  or  two  about  the  room  in  summer,  and  a 
fire  in  winter,  will  give  the  chamber  a  homelike  air  of  welcome. 

If  the  visitor  has  no  maid  with  her,  the  lady's  maid  or  the  upper 
housemaid  should  be  sent  to  see  if  she  requires  any  attendance,  and  to 
assist  her  to  unpack  if  she  likes  any  aid. 

From  breakfast-time  till  luncheon  a  visitor  amuses  herself,  either 
reading,  working,  writing  letters,  or  strolling  in  the  grounds,  but  on  no 
account  intruding  on  the  morning  avocations  of  her  entertainer. 

At  luncheon,  plans  are  generally  arranged  for  the  afternoon's  amuse- 
ments. 

Luncheon  is  nearly  as  important  a  meal  as  dinner  in  the  present  day. 
We  will,  therefore,  say  something  about  it  here. 

People  are  not  taken  in  to  luncheon.  The  hostess  sometimes  even 
leads  the  way  to  the  dining-room  herself,  when  the  butler  announces  it. 

It  is  always  now  a  substantial  and  elegant  meal.  The  table  should  be 
well  covered  ;  cold  and  hot  meat,  game,  vegetables,  tarts,  pudding,  creams, 
&c,  are  all  put  on  it  at  the  same  time  ;  and  after  once  handing  round  the 
plates  of  food  chosen,  the  servants  leave  the  room,  and  the  family  and 
guests  wait  on  themselves. 

If  there  are  children  in  the  house  they  dine  with  their  governess  at 
luncheon,  and  should  be  trained  to  behave  as  little  ladies  and  gentlemen ; 
the  little  boys  acting  as  small  pages,  and  removing  plates,  &c. 

Music,  charades,  and  other  games  are  frequent  evening  amusements 
in  country  houses. 

You  should  never,  invite  yourself  to  stay  with  even  a  near  relation.  It 
is  a  great  liberty  to  do  so,  and  may  cause  inconvenience  to  your  friend, 
or  give  her  and  yourself  the  pain  of  a  refusal. 

A  general  invitation  should  never  be  acted  on.  It  is  often  given  as  a 
mere  act  of  courtesy  ;  if  it  was  meant,  it  would  be  followed  up  by  a  special 
one,  sooner  or  later. 

The  length  of  a  visit  is  generally  now  specified  in  the  invitation.  If, 
however,  it  is  not  specified,  a  week  is  as  long  as  you  can  properly  remain, 
unless  strongly  pressed  to  do  so  ;  or  unless  you  should  be  at  the  house  of 
a  relative  or  old  friend.  But  long  visits  are,  in  a  general  way,  very 
objectionable,  being  a  great  infliction  on  a  family  if  not  desired,  and 
standing  in  the  way  of  the  reception  of  other  guests. 

On  Making  Presents. 

There  is  much  courtesy  demanded  in  giving  or  accepting  a  present. 
Do  not  offer  a  gift  with  the  assurance  that  "  it  is  not  worth  having,"  or 
that  "you  really  don't  want  it  yourself."  Give  it  gracefully.  Ask  your 
friend  to  accept  "  a  trifle  as  a  very  small  token  of  your  regard,"  &c.  &c. 

"  Nothing  is  more  popular  than  small  presents,"  says  Miss  Sinclair  ; 
and  she  was  right.  A  valuable  gift  oppresses  the  recipient  with  a  sense 
of  obligation  ;  a  small  gift  pleases  and  obliges  at  the  same  time. 

You  must  not  be  too  eager  to  return  a  gift.  Wait  for  a  time  before 
you  do  so.  The  best  gifts  to  offer  are  elegant  curiosities,  a  book,  flowers, 
or  game. 

Never  refuse  a  present  if  you  can  possibly  accept  it ;  it  is  very  dis- 
courteous to  do  so. 


3i 6  Morning  Calls. 


Married  ladies  may  receive  trifling  gifts  from  single  gentlemen,  who, 
being  in  the  habit  of  visiting  much  at  their  house,  may  consider  they  are 
under  an  obligation  for  hospitality  received  which  they  cannot  otherwise 
return. 

MORNING  CALLS, 

A  morning  call  should  not  be  paid  before  three  P.M.,  nor  after  six. 
No  one  has  a  right  to  intrude  (unless  by  permission)  on  the  quiet  morning 
occupations  of  a  family ;  nor  to  detain  them  in  the  drawing-room  after 
the  dressing-bell  has  rung. 

It  is  very  ill-bred  also  to  call  on  people  at  their  hours  for  meals  ;  you 
should  especially  avoid  making  your  visit  at  luncheon  time. 

A  morning  call  should  never  exceed  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  time.  If 
other  visitors  come  in  during  your  visit,  do  not  "  sit  them  out,"  as  it  is 
phrased  ;  remain  for  a  few  minutes  after  their  entrance  chatting  to  them, 
if  they  are  acquaintances  of  your  own,  or  if  they  are  strangers  to  you, 
bearing  a  part  in  the  general  conversation.  Then  rise  and  take  your 
leave,  bowing  slightly  to  the  strangers  as  you  quit  the  room. 

Never  look  at  your  watch  during  a  morning  visit ;  it  is  very  rude  to 
do  so. 

Do  not  call  with  a  large  party  on  your  friends  ;  two  people  are  quite 
as  many  out  of  one  family  as  would  be  proper.  You  ought  not  to  fill  a 
room  up  with  your  own  relatives  or  friends.  Never  take  your  pet  dog  ' 
with  you  on  a  call.  Many  persons  have  a  great  objection  to  animals 
entering  their  drawing-room,  and  others  have  a  fear  of,  or  antipathy  to 
them. 

You  should  always  leave  your  umbrella  in  the  hall,  and  take  care  that 
you  do  not  enter  the  drawing-room  with  muddy  boots. 

Children,  also,  should  be  left  at  home  when  the  mamma  goes  out  on  a 
round  of  visits,  unless  she  is  only  calling  on  an  old  friend. 

If  the  lady  on  whom  you  call  is  not  at  home,  you  must  leave  your 
card.  If  she  has  grown-up  daughters  or  a  sister  living  with  her,  two 
cards;  or  you  may  slightly  turn  down  the  corner  of  your  card,  which 
signifies  that  the  visit  is  paid  to  all. 

It  is  customary  for  the  names  of  the  daughters  who  are  introduced 
into  society  to  be  printed  on  the  same  card  as  their  mother's.  It  is  a 
saving  of  expense  and  trouble,  and  is  in  good  taste,  we  think,  as  implying 
the  protection  under  which  the  young  ladies  visit. 

A  card  left  at  a  farewell  visit  has  P.P.C.  (pour prendre  conge — i.e.  to 
take  leave,)  written  in  the  corner. 

After  an  illness  of  any  kind,  or  after  the  death  of  any  member  of  the 
family,  a  card  "  returning  thanks  "  is  sent  to  all  whose  cards  or  inquiries 
have  been  received  at  the  house  during  the  period  of  affliction. 

Visits  of  condolence  are  generally  paid  on  friends  in  affliction  soon 
after  the  cards  of  "returning  thanks  for  kind  inquiries"  have  been 
received. 

When  morning  callers  enter  your  drawing-room  you  need  not  advance 
to  receive  them  beyond  a  few  steps  ;  nor  need  you  lay  aside  any  needle- 
work or  light  employment  in  which  you  may  be  engaged  ;  only  you  must 
take  care  that  all  your  attention  be  given,  for  the  time  being,  to  your 
guests. 


Introductions  and  Letters  of  Introduction.  3 *  7 


You  should  strive  to  be  pleasant,  kindly,  and  courteous  to  your 
visitors,  and  to  let  them  leave  your  house  with  a  feeling  of  satisfaction 
with  themselves  and  with  you. 

Take  pains  to  acquire  a  habit  of  "  small  talk "  for  such  occasions, 
which  must  not,  however,  degenerate  into  gossip ;  and  never  let  the 
conversation  sink  into  an  awkward  silence.  Inquiries  as  to  the  well- 
being  of  your  visitor's  family  or  relatives  ;  the  public-topics  of  the  day ; 
even  "the  weather,"  will  always  furnish  matter  for  chit-chat  without 
discussing  the  characters  of  other  people.  Nothing  is  more  under-bred 
than  scandal. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  introduce  your  visitors  to  each  other  at  a 
morning  call,  unless  you  know  they  wish  to  become  acquainted.  If  an 
ntroduction  does  take  place,  you  must  present  the  person  of  inferior 
social  position  to  the  superior ;  the  gentleman  to  the  lady  ;  thus  (with  a 

slight  bow  to  the  lady) — "  Will  you  allow  me  to  introduce  Mr. ?"  or, 

if  the  person  addressed  is  an  intimate  friend,  and  both  guests  quite  on  an 
equality,  you  need  only  say  "  Mr.  Smith — Mr.  Brown,"  or  "  Mr.  Smith — 
Mrs.  Bell." 

When  you  are  yourself  introduced  to  strangers  bow  slightly,  and 
enter  at  once  into  conversation  with  them ;  to  bow  and  take  no  further 
notice  of  them,  but  to  continue  your  conversation  with  the  lady  on  whom 
you  are  calling,  is  a  great  want  of  good  breeding. 

People  who  outsit  two  or  three  sets  of  visitors  are  always  considered 
"  bores." 

A  lady  never  calls  on  a  gentleman  unless  professionally  or  officially. 
It  is  considered  an  impropriety  to  do  so. 

Ceremonial  visits  are  made  the  day  after  a  ball,  when  it  is  sufficient  to 
leave  a  card.     It  is  usual  to  call  about  a  week  after  a  small  party. 

When  a  stranger  calls  for  the  first  time,  you  ought  to  return  the  call 
in  about  a  week's  time  ;  a  long  delay  in  returning  a  first  visit  is  considered 
equivalent  to  an  unwillingness  to  accept  the  new  acquaintance,  unless 
there  has  been  some  unavoidable  hindrance,  which  the  lady  should 
explain,  and  for  which  she  must  apologize. 

Do  not,  however,  apologize  for  "  not  having  called  for  a  long  time," 
under  any  other  circumstances,  or  without  some  perfectly  satisfactory 
excuse  ;  it  would  be  simply  a  rudeness. 

If  you  cannot  receive  a  visitor,  tell  your  servant  to  say  that  you  are 
"  engaged,"  or  "  not  at  home."  These  last  words  are  not,  as  they  are 
someiimes  thought,  a  falsehood,  for  every  one  knows  they  merely  mean 
that  you  are  engaged  and  cannot  see  visitors. 

A  lady  should  be  more  richly  dressed  for  calling  on  her  friends  than 
she  requires  to  be  for  an  ordinary  walk. 


Introductions  and  Letters  of  Introduction. 

Never  introduce  people  to  each  other  unless  you  feel  quite  sure  that 
it  will  be  agreeable  to  both  parties.  We  have  said  before  that  it  is  right 
to  introduce  the  gentleman  to  the  lady,  even  when  the  social  rank  of  the 
former  is  higher,  because  ladies  have  always  the  precedence  of  gentlemen. 

If  you  are  walking  with  one  friend  and  meet  another  on  the  road,  you 


3i  8  Notes  of  Invitation,  etc. 

must  not  introduce  them  to  each  other,  unless  you  know  previously  that 
they  wish  for  an  introduction. 

At  a  ball  the  lady  of  the  house  may  introduce  a  gentleman  to  a  lady 
without  permission,  in  order  that  he  may  ask  her  guest  to  dance. 

Ladies  are  not  obliged  to  consider  their  ball-partners  as  acquain- 
tances, unless  they  please. 

It  is  the  lady's  place  to  bow  first  to  a  gentleman. 

It  is  no  longer  necessary  to  introduce  the  guests  to  each  other  at  an 
evening  party.  You  may  talk  to  any  one  sitting  near  you  easily  and 
courteously  without  any  introduction.  The  fact  of  the  lady  or  gentleman 
being  at  your  friend's  house  is  a  sufficient  introduction. 

Letters  of  introduction  should  only  be  given  to  introduce  the  bearer 
to  a  very  intimate  friend  of  your  own.  You  put  yourself  under  a  great 
obligation  to  the  person  whom  you  request  to  show  civility  or  kindness  to 
a  stranger. 

Always  reflect  whether  the  person  who  wishes  to  be  introduced  would 
be  agreeable  to  your  friend,  and  whether  you  have  any  right  to  tax  her 
time  and  hospitality  for  another. 

Should  you  have  a  letter  of  introduction  given  to  you,  be  sure  to  send 
it  (inclosing  your  card).  Do  not  on  any  account  call  with  it  yourself. 
If  the  receiver  of  the  letter  is  really  well-bred,  she  will  call  upon  you  or 
leave  her  card  the  next  day,  and  you  may  then  return  her  visit.  She 
ought  to  invite  you  to  her  house  if  possible,  or  to  show  you  any  other 
attention  which  may  be  in  her  power. 

If  you  are  yourself  the  recipient  of  a  letter  from  a  friend  presenting  a 
foreigner  to  you,  etiquette  demands  that  you  should  escort  her  to  any 
exhibition,  whether  national  or  otherwise,  which  might  prove  of  interest, 
and  make  a  little  party  or  invite  a  few  friends  to  dinner,  to  entertain  the 
stranger.  In  short,  that  best  and  most  unfailing  guide  to  good-breeding, 
"Do  unto  others  as  you  would  they  should  do  unto  you,"  will  best  direct 
your  conduct. 

The  letter  of  introduction  is  better  unsealed.  You  should  request 
your  friend  to  fasten  it  previous  to  delivering  it,  which  is  virtually  giving 
her  permission  to  read  it  first. 

Notes  of  Invitation,  etc, 

Notes  of  invitation  and  reply  should  be  written  on  small  paper  of  the 
very  best  quality.  For  large  parties,  balls,  &c,  people  now  generally  use 
printed  cards. 

When  a  note  of  invitation  to  dinner  is  written,  it  should  be  in  the 
third  person,  and  in  the  names  of  both  the  lady  and  gentleman  of  the 
house. 

"  Mr.  and  Mrs.  — —  request  the  pleasure  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  — — 's 
company  at  dinner  on  Monday,  Dec.  — ,  at  8  o'clock." 

The  answer  accepting  should  be — 

"Mr.  and  Mrs. have  much  pleasure  in  accepting  Mrs.  —  - — 9S> 

invitation  for  Dec.  — ." 

Or,  refusing  the  invitation— 


Notes  of  Invitation,  etc.  3I9 

"  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Moore  regret  that  a  previous  engagement  will  prevent 

them  from  having  the  pleasure  of  accepting  Mr.  and  Mrs. 's  kind 

invitation  for  Dec.  — ." 
Or— 

"  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Moore  regret  extremely  that  owing  to  a  prior  engage* 

ment  they  cannot  have  the  pleasure  of  dining  with  Mr.  and  Mrs. on 

Monday,  Dec.  — ." 

If  there  be  any  other  cause  for  refusal,  it  should  be  stated  in  as  few  words 

as  possible. 

Invitations  for  balls  are  sent  on  printed  cards  three  weeks  previous  to 
the  day  fixed.  The  card  is  the  usual  "  At  home "  card  with  the  word 
"  dancing"  printed  in  the  corner  ;  the  word  "ball"  is  used  only  for  quite 
large  ones.  These  invitations,  as  well  as  those  to  "  five  o'clock  teas  "  and 
evening  parties,  are  given  in  the  name  of  the  lady  only. 

We  mention  this  fact,  because  a  lady  of  our  acquaintance  tells  us  that 
she  has  known  an  instance  in  which  some  excellent  people  were  vexed,  and 
fancied  they  had  offended  the  gentleman  of  the  house,  because  the  invita- 
tion was  sent  in  the  name  of  the  lady  only.  They  asked,  "  What  they  had 
done  to  offend  Mr.  — -,  as  lie  had  not  joined  in  the  invitation  to^hem?" 

Never  ask  a  friend,  either  in  a  note  or  by  word  of  mouth,  to  "  take  tea" 
with  you — it  is  a  vulgarism  ;  you  should  say  "  drink  tea? 

Example  of  a  friendly  note  :— 

"  Dear  Miss  A.  — 

"  We  have  some  friends  coming  to  drink  tea  with  us  to-morrow; 
will  you  give  us  the  pleasure  of  your  company  also  ?  We  hope  you  will 
not  disappoint  us." 

In  writing  to  persons  of  rank  above  your  own,  you  should  "request 
the  honour"  instead  of  "pleasure"  of  their  company. 

In  writing  to  a  perfect  stranger  on  business  of  any  kind,  you  should 
begin  your  letter  with  "  Sir,"  or  "  Madam,"  and  sign  yourself  "  Your 
obedient  servant." 

It  is  usual  to  write  to  tradesmen  in  the  third  person  ;  as — 

"  Mrs. will  thank  Mr.  Jones  to  send  her  five  yards  of  lace,  &c, 

at  his  earliest  convenience." 

If  writing  to  a  servant,  begin  with  her  name,  thus— 
"  Mary  Smith,— 

"  Your  character  is  satisfactory,  &c.  &c,  and  you  can  enter 
my  service  on  Monday,  18th  inst.,  when  my  present  housemaid  leaves. 

"Jane  Morris." 
( The  signature  alone  is  sufficient  to  this  kind  of  letter ;  or  you  may 
Write  in  the  third  person,  and  say — 

"  Mrs.  Morris  is  satisfied  with  Mary  Jones's  character,  and  will  receive 
her  into  her  service  on  Monday,  Dec.  — ." 

Thus  much  for  the  mere  etiquette  of  letter-writing. 
We  may  add,  that  to  answer  a  letter  promptly  is  a  civility,  and  in 
some  instances  a  kindness. 

Invitations  ought  to  receive  an  immediate  reply  if  the  card  bears  R.S.V.P. 
If  you  accept  an  invitation  to  dinner,  nothing  Wut  illness  or  the  death 


320  The  Etiquette  of  Walking,  Riding,  and  Driving 


of  friends  ought  to  excuse  you  from  keeping  your  engagement ;  as  it  is 
very  disagreeable  for  the  lady  who  gives  the  dinner  party  to  have  a 
vacant  seat  at  the  table,  and,  perhaps,  an  odd  number  to  send  in  to 
dinner.  Send  an  excuse  (if  one  must  be  made)  in  time  to  allow  her  to 
supply  your  place. 

THE  ETIQUETTE  OF  WALKING-,  RIDING,  AND 
DRIVING. 

A  well-bred  woman  will  endeavour  to  acquire  an  elegant  walk.  She 
will  hold  herself  erect  without  stiffness,  and  walk  without  a  footfall  being 
audible  in  the  house.     In  the  road  or  street  she  should  also  walk  lightly. 

If  you  meet  a  gentleman  whom  you  know  slightly,  it  is  your  place,  as 
a  lady,  to  bow  to  him  first,  and  thus  acknowledge  his  acquaintance.  He  is 
not  permitted  by  the  rules  of  society  to  bow  to  you  first.  If  you  only  just 
wish  to  recognise  him  with  ordinary  civility,  you  must  bow  slightly  and 
distantly,  and  pass  on.  But  do  not,  if  you  are  short-sighted,  examine  him 
first  through  your  eyeglass  before  you  bow ;  look  at  him  well  before  you 
come  up  to  him,  and  be  sure  that  you  know  him  before  you  recognise  him. 

A  lady  shakes  hands  with  gentlemen  who  are  friends  or  intimate 
acquaintance. 

A  young  lady  rather  gives  her  own  hand  than  shakes  that  of  a  gentleman. 

A  very  young  lady  should  not  walk  out  alone  ;  she  should  be  accom- 
panied by  a  relative  or  governess,  or  attended  by  a  lady's  maid.  It  is  now 
usual  for*  grown-up  young  ladies  to  walk  without  attendance.  Ladies  and 
gentlemen  never  now  walk  arm-in-arm,  unless  the  lady  is  elderly  or 
requires  support. 

At  watering-places  and  public  promenades  it  is  usual  for  gentlemen  to 
join  ladies  with  whom  they  are  acquainted  and  walk  with  them  for  a 
short  time.  A  gentleman  slightly  acquainted  with  a  lady  raises  his  hat 
only  slightly. 

Now  as  to  riding  : 

A  lady  who  rides  should  be  dressed  in  the  fashion  of  the  time — but 
she  must  not  exaggerate  it,  nor  even  go  to  the  extreme  of  it,  especially  if 
it  is  at  all  fantastic.  A  lady  over  or  gaily  dressed  on  horseback  would 
look  like  a  circus-rider. 

A  too  long  riding  habit  is  very  dangerous. 

A  gentleman  helps  you  to  mount  your  horse.  You  must  gather  up 
your  habit,  and  hold  it  in  your  left  hand  ;  then  place  yourself  as  close  as 
possible  to  the  horse,  with  your  face  towards  the  animal's  head,  and  your 
right  hand  on  the  pummel.  The  gentleman  stoops  and  places  his  right 
hand  horizontally,  at  a  convenient  distance  from  the  ground.  Put  your 
left  foot  in  it,  and  spring  upwards  into  your  saddle  as  he  lifts  you. 

You  should  not  rise  much  in  your  seat,  nor  lean  over  the  horse's  neck, 
nor  hold  the  veins  in  both  hands. 

It  is  much  better  for  a  young  lady  not  to  ride  out  alone,  with  only  a 
groom  in  attendance,  and  mothers  who  permit  the  violation  of  this  rule  of 
propriety  are  greatly  to  blame.  We  should  not  have  so  many  disgraceful 
stories  of  young  ladies  running  away  with  and  marrying  grooms  or  riding- 
masters,  if  they  were  not  improperly  left  to  such  low  riding  associates. 


Presentation  at  Court. 


You  should  imitate  the  best  examples  in  getting  into  a  carriage.  Do 
not  hurry  in.  If  you  are  going  to  sit  with  your  face  to  the  horses,  and 
there  is  one  step  to  the  carriage,  put  your  left  foot  on  it — or,  if  there  are 
two  steps,  put  your  right  foot  on  the  first,  and  your  left  on  the  last  step, 
so  as  to  enter  the  carriage  with  your  right  foot,  and  sink  easily  into  your 
seat.  If  you  are  going  to  sit  in  the  back  seat,  reverse  this  action,  and  put 
your  left  foot  into  the  carriage  first. 

The  seat  facing  the  horses  is  the  place  of  honour,  and  should  be  given 
to  the  eldest  ladies,  or  the  first  in  rank.  The  lady  of  the  house,  however, 
always  occupies  her  own  seat  on  it,  and  should  never  be  allowed  by  a 
guest  to  resign  it  to  her.  Do  not  take  a  stiff-handled  parasol,  or  a  large 
umbrella,  in  your  friend's  carriage  to  scratch  the  paint.  I  need  scarcely 
say  that  you  must  let  your  guests  precede  you  in  entering  your  own 
carriage,  as  well  as  in  quitting  the  room,  fcc. 

You  may  dress  rather  gaily  for  a  drive. 


PRESENTATION  AT  COURT. 

The  wives  and  daughters  of  the  nobility  are  of  course  eligible  for  pre- 
sentation at  Court,  unless  there  is  an  objection  on  the  part  of  the  Sovereign 
from  some  moral  cause.  Only  ladies  of  good  character  are  received  by 
the  excellent  Queen  of  England. 

Young  ladies  of  rank,  who  have  violated  duty  and  propriety  by  a  run- 
away marriage,  are  not  allowed  to  appear  at  Court,  at  least  for  some  length 
of  time  afterwards. 

Only  certain  professions  are  admitted  at  Court  after  the  nobility  and 
squirearchy. 

The  wives  and  daughters  of  the  Clergy,  of  Naval  and  Military  officers, 
of  Physicians  and  Barristers,  have  a  right  to  presentation  at  Court.  These 
are  aristocratic  professions.  The  wives  and  daughters  of  solicitors  and 
general  practitioners  are  not  entitled  to  a  presentation,  nor  are  the  families 
of  tradesmen,  though  wealth  and  connexion  have  proved  a  passport  thither 
of  late  years  for  merchants  and  manufacturers. 

The  lady  wishing  to  be  presented  must  ask  the  favour — and  it  is  a 
great  one — from  the  friend  or  relative  of  highest  rank  whom  she  knows. 
The  higher  the  rank,  and  the  more  unexceptional  the  character,  the  better 
for  her.  The  lady  who  presents  must  be  at  the  Drawing-room  at  which 
her  protegee  appears  to  be  presented.  Any  married  lady  presented  at 
Court  may  present  a  friend  in  her  turn. 

The  regulations  of  the  Lord  Chamberlain  must  then  be  consulted  and 
implicitly  obeyed. 

It  is  desirable  to  be  early,  in  order  to  escape  the  crowd. 

Everything  in  the  shape  of  a  cloak  or  scarf,  even  of  lace,  must  be  left 
in  the  carriage.  The  train  must  be  carefully  folded  over  the  left  arm,  and 
the  wearer  can  then  enter  and  wait  her  turn  to  be  presented. 

She  is  at  length  ushered  to  the  Presence- Chamber,  which  is  entered 
by  two  doors  :  she  goes  in  to  the  ante-room  or  corridor,  instantly 
lets  down  her  train,  which  is  spread  out  by  the  officials.  The 
lady  then   walks  forward  towards  the  Oueen  or  Princess.      The  card 


322  Duties  to  the  Poor. 


on  which  her  name  is  inscribed,  is  handed  to  another  lord  in  waiting,  who 
reads  the  name  aloud  to  the  Sovereign. 

When  she  arrives  just  before  her  Majesty,  she  should  curtsey  as  low  as 
possible,  so  as  almost  to  kneel. 

If  the  lady  presented  be  a  peeress  or  a  peer's  daughter,  the  Queen  kisses 
her  on  her  forehead. 

If  she  is  only  a  commoner,  the  Queen  extends  her  hand  to  be  kissed 
by  the  lady,  who  having  done  so,  rises,  curtseys  to  the  Princess  of  Wales 
and  the  other  members  of  the  royal  family,  and  then  passes  on,  keeping 
her  face  towards  the  Queen,  and  backing  out  of  the  door  which  leads  from 
the  Presence-Chamber. 

Peeresses  in  their  own  right — like  peers  —  can  demand  a  private 
audience  of  their  Sovereign. 


DUTIES  TO  THE  POOR, 

The  House-mother  should  spare  something  from  her  abundance,  and 
even  from  her  poverty,  for  the  poor.  In  most  country  houses  soup  is  given 
away  twice  a  week,  and  skimmed  milk  oftener,  to  the  very  poor.  Where 
there  is  an  abundant  supply  of  vegetables  from  the  garden,  these  also 
should  be  given  to  poor  people  who  may  chance  to  have  no  gardens. 

The  cook  should  be  charged  to  save  all  boilings  of  meat,  ham,  tongue, 
mutton,  chickens,  &c,  and  whatever  can  be  spared  ;  it  will  help  to  make 
soup.  Fish-bones  will  greatly  add  to  it.  Scraps  of  meat  left,  also  should 
be  added  and  boiled  in  the  digester.  The  longer  it  is  boiled  the  better, 
and  it  may  be  set  on  at  odd  times.  Add  one  or  two  pounds  of  fresh 
meat,  oatmeal,  rice,  or  Scotch  barley,  with  vegetables,  and  a  good  soup 
will  be  had  to  give  away.  A  little  fresh  meat  should  always  be  given 
towards  it,  and  this  should  not  be  strained  off,  but  left  in  pieces  in  the 
soup. 

Dripping,  which  supplies  the  place  of  butter,  is  a  valuable  gift  to  the 
poor. 

A  good  large  baked  rice  pudding,  made  without  eggs,  a  little  suet  on 
the  top  to  brown  it,  makes  a  good  dinner  for  a  family  of  children. 

All  spare  pieces  of  bread  should  be  soaked  in  water  till  they  are  soft ; 
then  add  sugar,  one  egg,  a  little  milk  and  a  little  spice.  Bake  it,  and  it 
will  make  a  good  pudding. 

Occasionally  give  away  a  few  pounds  of  meat,  baked,  with  vegetables, 
or  made  into  a  substantial  pie.  The  crust  can  be  made  of  clarified  fat. 
Tea  is  a  welcome  gift  to  an  old  woman.  A  pound  of  treacle  for  the  children 
would  be  acceptable. 

Old  clothes,  too,  are  very  valuable  gifts,  and  the  charity  is  enhanced 
if  they  are  first  neatly  patched  and  darned  ready  for  use.  A  shirt  ready- 
or  rather  home-made,  a  knitted  pair  of  stockings,  a  knitted  petticoat,  are 
all  gifts  of  price.  A  pillow  made  of  paper  shavings,  elsewhere  described  ; 
list  cut  off  flannel  makes  warm  inner  jackets,  worked  nicely  together,  to 
be  worn  inside  a  cotton  dress  ;  and  many  little  garments  may  be  made 
for  poor  children  out  of  odds  and  ends  of  linen,  cotton  cloth,  &c.  &c. 

Subscriptions  to  clothing-clubs,  maternity  societies,  provident  societies, 
&C.,  will  occur  to  all ;  but  much  also  may  be  done  by  visiting  personally; 


Duties  to  the  Poor.  -i>2, 


and  in  a  friendly  and  courteous  manner,  amongst  our  poorer  neighbours, 
and  giving  just  the  help  which  is  required  at  the  time. 

"The  liberal  soul,"  says  the  wise  man,  "shall  be  made  fat;"  and 
doubtless  the  habit  of  giving  will  grow  with  its  exercise,  and  bring  down 
a  double  blessing  on  the  giver  and  the  receiver. 

We  subjoin  a  capital  receipt  for  a  pea-soup,  which  may  be  made  weekly 
at  a  small  expense  for  poor  neighbours  : — 

Peas,  16  oz.  ;  meat,  i6oz. ;  Pot  barley,  i7_.oz.  ;  salt,  \\  oz. ;  onions, 
\\  oz. ;  black  pepper,  40  grains  ;  water,  4  quarts. 

The  peas  must  be  steeped  for  four  hours  in  4  pints  of  cold  water.  The 
meat  must  boil  three  hours  in  5  pints  of  water.  Then  boil  the  peas  in  a 
muslin  bag  and  meat  together  in  5  pints  of  water  for  an  hour.  Next  rub 
the  contents  of  the  bag  of  peas  into  the  soup,  but  not  letting  the  skins  in. 
Add  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt,  onions  and  barley,  and  boil  for  an 
hour.     Add  water  from  time  to  time  to  make  up  a  gallon. 

To  Choose  Calico. 

Rub  it  to  see  that  there  is  not  much  dress,  as  it  is  called,  in  it.  If  a 
quantity  of  white  powder  falls  out  do  not  buy  it,  however  cheap,  for  it  is 
really  thin  and  sleasy,  and  will  not  wear  well. 

To  Choose  Silks  and  Satins. 

A  silk  should  be  soft,  smooth  on  the  surface,  and  brilliant  or  glossy, 
not  thin,  flimsy,  or  stiff.     Stiff  silks  cut  into  holes. 

The  purchaser  should  carefully  feel  the  silk,  and  gather  it  into  folds. 
If  the  folds  are  round  and  full  the  silk  is  soft,  if  they  are  stiff  and  angular 
the  chances  are  that  the  dress  will  cut  in  the  folds  when  made  up. 

Mr.  John  Spiller  has  found  by  recent  experiments  that  hydrochloric 
acid  is  a  powerful  solvent  of  silk,  although  it  has  little  or  no  effect  on 
cotton  or  wool,  at  least  for  a  long  time.  The  practical  use  of  this  dis- 
covery to  ladies  is  great.  The  purchaser  of  a  silk  has  only  first  to  buy  or 
obtain  a  few  inches  of  it,  and  drop  a  little  hydrochloric  acid — to  be  had  at 
any  chemist's — on  the  centre  of  the  piece  ;  if  it  be  aifture  silk  a  hole  will 
be  made ;  if  there  is  cotton  in  it  those  threads  will  remain. 


FURS,  AND  SKINS  OP  BIRDS. 

What  they  are — How  to  Preserve — How  to  Clean  and  Prepare. 

The  use  of  furs  in  England  as  an  article  of  dress  did  not  become 
general  till  the  fourteenth  cer.'. 

In  1670 — reign  of  Charles  '  II.— the  Hudson's  Bay  Compair 
incorporated  by  charter,  and  the  entire  trade  in  furs  passed  into  its  hands, 
and  furs  became  cheaper  and  more  abundant.  In  1682  an  opposition 
company  started,  but  the  two  were  amalgamated  under  the  original  name 
in  182  r.  The  territory  of  the  Hudson's  Bay  Company  Avas  of  great  extent : 
it  reached  from  Canada  to  the  Arctic  Ocean,  and  from  the  coasts  of 
Labrador  to  the  Pacific.  It  has  recently  been  transferred  to  the  Govern- 
ment, and  '.o  the  nation.     London 

v  2 


324 


Furs,  and  Skins  of  Birds. 


is  the  largest  fur  market  in  Europe,  the  Company  having  nearly  150 
establishments  in  it. 

Of  all  furs  in  the  present  day  the  sable  is  the  most  valuable,  and  will 
probably  always  continue  the  most  expensive,  as  of  all  kinds  of  hunting, 
that  of  the  sable  is  the  most  arduous  and  perilous  ;  its  proper  name  is 
Mustela  Zibclline,  or  the  Sable  Marten.  It  belongs  to  a  group  of  the 
Digitigrade  Carnivora  {i.e.  from  digitus  the  toe,  gradion  I  walk, — walking 
on  the  ends  of  their  toes).  The  Sable  Marten  is  celebrated  for  the  great 
beauty  of  its  fur,  but  its  winter  coat  is  the  one  which  is  prized,  and  as  it  is 
found  only  in  the  northern  parts  of  Europe  and  Asia,  and  is  most 
abundant  in  the  mountains  of  frozen  regions,  the  chase  for  it  is  perilous, 
and  the  sufferings  of  its  hunters  terrible.  The  exiles  of  Siberia  are 
employed  in  this  winter  sable  hunting,  and  it  is  said  that  their  sufferings 
from  extreme  cold,  privations  of  all  kinds,  and  the  attacks  of  wolves,  are 
beyond  anything  which  we  can  imagine.  A  sad  price  is  paid,  indeed,  for 
this  luxury  of  the  toilet  ! 

The  fur  of  the  Hudson's  Bay  sable  (Mustela  Canadensis)  is  considered 
the  next  best  to  that  of  the  Russian  sable  ;  the  colour,  however,  is  a  light 
brown,  not  dark  like  the  Russian,  but  it  is  frequently  dyed,  and  is  then 
quite  as  handsome  in  appearance.  The  Baum  or  Pine  Marten's  skin 
when  dyed  cannot  be  told  by  unexperienced  eyes  from  the  true  sable. 

The   Stone   Marten  {Martela  saxonnn),   found  in    high  and  stony 


_•' 


■ 


Beech  or  Stone  Marten  [Marks  fagorum,  Ray). 

districts,  is  the  animal  which  supplies  us  with  what  is  called  French 
sable,  because  the  French  dye  its  skin  so  admirably.  The  natural  fur  is 
a  bluish  white  underneath,  with  a  top  or  surface  of  dark  brown  hair;  the 
throat  quite  white.  It  is  an  excellent  skin.  The  Fisher  Martin  is  a 
larger  animal  ;  the  hair  of  the  fur  is  fuller  and  longer.  Great  numbers  of 
these  skins  are  brought  to  England  from  North  America. 

The  fur  of  the  Minx  resembles  sable  in  colour,  but  the  hair  is  much 


Fur s,  and  Skins  of  Birds. 


5-b 


shorter  and  has  a  satiny  gloss.     It  is  a  very  durable  fur,  and  is  imported 
by  the  Hudson's  Bay  Company. 

The  Polecats  {Mustela  fiutorius)  are  found  both  in  the  Old  and  New 
Worlds.  Their  fur  is  thick  and  soft,  their  tail  long,  and  they  have  glands 
which  secrete  a  horribly  unpleasant  fluid.  The  Polecat  is  very  common 
in  Britain  and  very  mischievous.  It  hides  by  day  in  the  thatch  of  barns 
and  unfrequented  places,  and  at  night  invades  the  poultry  yards  and  dove- 


i'olecats  [M.  putorius,  Linn. ) 

cots,  and  commits  sad  havoc,  biting  off  the  heads  of  the  sleeping  birds 
and  carrying  them  away.  Its  fur  is  known  to  us  as  Fitch,  and  is  still 
used,  though  not  much  liked,  in  England.  The  top  hair  is  black,  the 
ground  fur  a  deep  yellow.  Fitch  wears  well;  but  has  always  an  unpleasant 
smell  about  it. 

The  Ermine  is  another  species  of  Polecat.  Its  body  is  about  nine 
inches  long  and  its  tail  about  four.  It  has  two  coats — a  white  one  in 
winter,  with  its  tail  tipped  with  black — this  is  the  beautiful  fur  we  call 
ermine.  In  the  summer  its  coat  changes  to  a  beautiful  brown  above  and 
yellowish  beneath  ;  it  is  then  called  R.oselet.  It  is  found  in  the  northern 
parts  of  the  New  and  Old  continents.  The  best  fur  is  taken  from  full- 
grown  animals.  They  are  taken  generally  in  traps  or  snares,  so  that  the 
skin  may  not  be  stained.  The  tails  are  laid  on  the  pure  white  skin  when 
the  furs  are  prepared  for  use.  Miniver,  famous  in  Troubadour  lay  and 
story,  is  the  ermine  skin  with  the  black  tips  of  the  tail  spotted  at  intervals 
over  the  skin.  Ermine  was  once  exclusively  worn  by  sovereigns  and 
royal  persons,  and  is  still  wrorn  with  state  robes. 

The  Kolinski  {Mustela  Sibirica)  furnishes  the  Tartar  Sable,  as  it  is 
called;  the  skin  is  naturally  of  a  bright  yellow  colour.     It  is,  however, 


26 


Furs,  and  Skins  of  Birds. 


dyed  into  a  good  imitation  of  sable.     The  tail  of  the  Kolinski  furnishes 
the  "  sable"  pencils  of  artists. 


4  Al 


Ermines  (M.  erminca,  Linn.) 

The  Beaver  {Castor  Fibor)  is  distinguished  from  all  other  Rodents, 
by  its  tail,  which  is  horizontally  flattened,  of  a  nearly  oval  form,  and 
covered  with  scales. 

This  animal  was  once,  it  is  believed,  a  native  of  Britain.  It  is  now  an 
inhabitant  of  the  most  solitary  parts  of  North  America;  it  is  also  found 
in  Siberia  and  Norway.  It  is  a  wonderfully  ingenious  animal,  and  builds 
for  itself  a  hut  (which  it  inhabits  in  winter)  with  marvellous  skill.  It  is 
always  found  near  the  banks  of  rivers  or  lakes,  and  in  company  with 
others.  Beavers  aid  each  other  to  construct  dams  or  dykes  and  huts  for 
the  winter.  Each  hut  contains  two  or  three  families,  and  is  of  two 
stories.  We  have  not  space  to  give  a  full  account  of  these  wonderful 
dwellings  or  their  inmates,  but  they  are  worth  reading  about.  Formerly 
the  skins  of  beavers  were  in  great  demand  for  hats,  but  happily  for  their 
existence  the  fashion  has  gone  out,  or  they  might  have  shared  the 
threatened  extinction  of  the  black  monkeys.  The  skin  is  still  used  for 
other  purposes.  When  it  is  well  prepared  it  nearly  equals  seal  skin, 
and  is  lighter  and  more  lasting.  It  is  probably  often  worn  as  seal 
skin,  if  not  sold  for  it.  Beaver  and  rabbit  skins  are  manufactured  into 
felt. 


Furs,  ana  Skins  of  Birds. 


The  seal  (Phocd),  the  skin  of  which  is  now  so  much  worn  by  English 
ladies,  is  an  amphibious  creature,  found  in  the  Arctic  and  South  Seas. 


;' ^sJg^iBg^r^aSia 


The  Seal. 

Its  natural  history  is  as  interesting  as  that  of  the  beaver  but  we  have  no 
space  for  it  here.     The  coarse  hair   of  the  seal  covers  a  fine  silky  fur. 


The  Crested  Grebe  {Podiceps  crista  fits). 

The  skin  takes  a  great  deal  of  preparation  before  it  is  fit  for  use,  and  is 
dyed  dark  brown  or  black.     It  is  very  beautiful  and  very  expensive. 


To  Preserve  Skins  of  Birds  for  Hals. 


Of  the  fox — red,  blue,  black,  and  silver — and  of  the  brown  and  grizzly 
bears,  we  need  say  nothing.  The  squirrel  also  furnishes  us  with  a  delicate 
fur,  light,  warm,  and  lasting,  and  imitation  sable  is  made  from  it  dyed. 

The  chinchilla  is  a  little  animal  between  a  squirrel  and  a  rabbit.  Its 
fur  is  very  soft  and  beautiful,  but  it  is  not  durable,  and  soon  loses  its 
lovely  bloom.  Its  fur  is  brought  from  Lima,  Buenos  Ayres,  and  Arica. 
The  darkest  and  best  comes  from  Arica.  Those  of  Lima  have  short 
hair  and  are  inferior  to  the  others. 

The  Canada  lynx  {Felis  Canadensis)  has  soft  long  fur  of  a  greyish 
colour.  The  Norway  lynx  is  spotted  with  brown.  It  is  generally  dyed 
black  and  makes  pretty  muffs,  but  is  not  much  worn  at  present. 

The  Astrakan,  much  used  now  for  muffs,  jackets,  and  trimmings, 
comes  from  Russia. 

But  perhaps  the  most  beautiful  of  all  muffs  and  trimmings  are  those 
made  from  the  grebe,  an  aquatic  bird,  rarely  seen  on  the  land,  as  it  has 
great  difficulty  in  walking.  It  dives  very  swiftly,  and  is  so  beautiful  that  it 
is  considered  the  standard  of  perfection  among  water  birds.  The 
extraordinary  beauty  of  its  plumage  has  caused  the  skin  of  this  bird  to  be 
greatly  used  in  ladies'  dress.  Seal  skin  and  grebe  are  occasionally 
united  with  good  effect  in  muffs,  etc.,  etc. 

To  Preserve  Skins  of  Birds  for  Hats. 

After  the  bird  has  been  carefully  skinned,  the  skin  should  be  nailed 
out  on  a  board  with  the  feathers  downwards,  and  having  been  well 
peppered,  should  be  rubbed  with  a  strong  solution  of  alum  and  left  on  the 
board  till  quite  dry.     It  must  be  placed  in  the  air  when  drying. 

Furs  require  the  greatest  care.  They  have  especially  to  be  guarded 
from  damp  and  moth.  Wet  or  damp  spoils  fur,  especially  chinchilla. 
The  moment  the  wearer  of  fur  enters  the  house  after  a  damp  or  wet  walk 
she  should  wipe  her  fur  carefully  with  a  very  clean  cloth,  and  then  dry  it 
at  a  little  distance  from  the  fire.     It  will  decay  if  it  is  put  away  damp. 

Before  putting  furs  away  for  the  summer  shake  and  wipe  them  well, 
(but  do  not  shake  chinchilla  ;  it  will  not  bear  it ;  it  is  so  fragile),  sew 
them  up  in  linen  with  small  bags  of  pepper  with  them,  or  pepper  the  fir 
— it  will  shake  out  afterwards.  Cedar  shavings  put  in  with  the  fur  are 
also  a  good  defence  against  moth.  Wrap  the  linen  envelope  in  another 
of  coarse  brown  paper.  Carefully  wipe  out  the  box  or  drawer  in  which 
you  place  the  furs,  and  take  care  that  it  is  not  a  damp  place  in  which  you 
leave  them.  Furs  should  be  examined  several  times  during  the  summer 
to  be  sure  no  moth  has  got  in.  They  should  be  put  away  also  before 
moths  are  about. 

Fur  may  be  cleaned  by  rubbing  dark  furs  with  clean  dry  bran,  and 
ermine  with  powdered  starch  till  it  is  white — but  both  cleanings  make  a 
great  mess  in  the  house,  and  never  answer  so  well  as  sending  the  furs 
to  a  good  furrier.  Grebe  is  cleaned  by  washing  it  well  with  a  soft  sponge 
and  hot  soap  and  water  ;  then  again  with  warm  water  only.  Brush,  down 
with  a  clean  clothes  brush. 


3^9 


CLEANLINESS. 


THE  HOUSE-MOTHER. 

M  It  is  often  said  that  there  are  few  good  servants  now  :  I  say  there  are  few 
good  mistresses  now  ....  mistresses  now  seem  to  think  the  house  is  in  charge 
of  itself.  They  neither  know  how  to  give  orders,  nor  how  to  teach  their  servants 
to  obey  orders — i.e.,  to  obey  intelligently,  which  is  the  real  meaning  of  all 
discipline." — Notes  on  Nursing. 

Our  motto  is  taken  from  Miss  Nightingale's  "  Notes  on  Nursing," 
and  is  only  too  true. 

It  is  amazing  how  little  the  house-mother  of  to-day  (in  many  in- 
stances) looks  after  her  house. 

Housekeeping  is  scarcely  the  shadow  of  what  it  was  a  century  ago, 
and  the  change  is  surely  very  much  to  be  regretted.  There  would  be  far 
less  craving  for  excitement,  whether  of  pleasure  or  "  a  mission," — far  less 
invalidism  and  necessity  for  wine  and  tonics,  if  our  ladies  would  return  to 
the  good  old  ways  (when  they  were  good)  and  exercise  their  true  and 
undenied  rights  in  household  rule  and  dainty  ways  at  home. 

In  one  especial  respect  the  change  has  been  greatly  for  the  worse. 

In  former  days  the  ladies  of  England  looked  more  to  the  house 
cleaning  than  they  do  at  present.  The  consequence  was  that  they  were 
stronger,  brighter,  more  vigorous,  than  they  are  at  present. 

We  look  back  to  our  own  grandmother,  and  remember  a  stately  old 
lady  of  ninety-five !  with  skin  still  of  a  creamy  white,  few  wrinkles,  several 
white  teeth  remaining,  able  to  walk,  read,  and  work  as  well  as  she  could  at 
forty  years  of  age.  She  never,  till  the  close  of  her  life,  indulged  in  any 
modern  luxury.  She  was  a  perfect  housekeeper.  In  her  youth  she  told 
us  she  had  been  made  for  the  sake  of  exercise  to  rub  tables  and  shake 
feather  beds  before  she  went  into  the  school-room  ;  a  portion  of  each  day, 
too,  was  given  to  household  duties.  Now  what  is  it?  Numbers  of 
women,  who  are  well  enough  off  to  keep  two  servants,  hardly  ever  walk 
over  their  house  entirely  at  the  same  time.  They  go  into  the  kitchen, 
look  in  the  larder,  order  dinner,  and  remark  on  it  if  it  is  badly  cooked, 
comment  probably  on  any  palpable  housemaid's  neglect,  and  find  fault 
with  her  for  it ;  but  they  do  not  visit  every  hole  and  corner  as  they  ought 
every  day  or  every  other  day  (unless  some  duty  prevents  it),  and  see  that 
windows  are  open,  dust  removed,  china  utensils  washed  and  sweet, 
especially  that  basins  are  not  wiped  with  a  nasty  cloth  which  leaves  the 
odour  of  its  recent  presence  ;  that  saucepans  are  clean,  drains  in  order, 
closets  kept  clean  and  sweet ;  yet  these  are  absolute  duties  to  be  fulfilled, 
for  on  perfect  cleanliness  depends  the  health  of  the  entire  family,  especially 
of  the  children.  Perfect  cleanliness  and  pure  air  are  antidotes  to  scarlet 
fever,  smallpox,  measles,  and  low  typhoid  or  even  typhus  fever. 


13°  The  House-mot  he* 


The  house-mother  who  every  day  takes  this  beneficent  round  is  acting 
as  the  wise  guardian  of  the  lives,  health,  and  intellects  of  those  who  look 
to  her  for  protection  ;  such  a  thought  should  render  the  vigilance  re- 
quired a  delightful  rather  than  a  burdensome  task. 

She  should  see  especially  that  the  beds  are  not  made  up  unaired. 
Many  housemaids,  especially  if  they  have  a  great  deal  of  work  to  do,  are 
anxious  to  get  the  bedrooms  "  done"  early  ;  so  they  strip  the  beds  and 
cover  them  at  once,  shutting  up  the  damp  and  unwholesome  exhalations 
of  the  sleeper's  body  in  store  for  his  benefit  the  next  night.  Now  this 
ought  7iever  to  be.  She  should  see  that  the  beds  are  opened  and  remain 
so  for  some  time ;  that  the  windows  are  open  near  them  ;  that  the 
mattresses  are  rolled  back  for  the  air  to  dry  them  underneath  ;  that  the 
blankets  and  sheets  are  placed  in  the  air  ;  that  the  bedstead  is  dusted  ; 
the  bed  curtains  (if  there  are  any)  shaken  well  out  and  lifted  on  the  bed 
while  a  slightly  damp  cloth  wipes  the  carpet  beneath  it.  She  should 
require  the  housemaid  never  to  forget  her  box  for  cinders,  &c,  in  the 
winter ;  and  she  should  see  occasionally  if  that  and  the  slop-pail  is  kept 
clean.  The  latter  should  be  washed  out  twice  a  week  with  chloride  ot 
lime  and  water.  Personal  observation,  the  quick  eye  of  the  mistress 
(which  a  little  pains  will  render  wonderfully  observant)  will  have  a  very 
stimulating  effect  on  the  housemaid.  The  lady  should  never  fail  to  praise 
cleanliness  and  care  in  small  matters.  Self-esteem,  once  awakened,  will 
do  much  to  cause  a  girl  to  exert  herself ;  very  much  more  than  blame, 
which  discourages  and  depresses.  There  is  nothing  like  sympathy  in 
influencing  people.  Let  the  house-mother  show  that  she  takes  a  real 
interest  in  her  servants'  work,  and  it  will  become  a  labour  of  love  on  their 
part. 

"Attend,"  says  a  wise  French  writer,  "as  much  to  neatness  as  you  do 
to  economy.  Accustom  girls  never  to  suffer  anything  about  them  to  be 
unclean  or  in  disorder  ;  lead  them  to  notice  the  slightest  derangement  in 
a  house ;  say  to  them  that  nothing  contributes  more  to  economy  and 
neatness  than  keeping  things  in  their  proper  place.  This  may  seem 
trifling,  yet  it  leads  to  very  important  consequences  ;  for  then,  when  any- 
thing is  wanted,  there  will  be  no  difficulty  in  finding  it ;  and  when  it  is 
done  with,  it  will  be  returned  to  the  place  from  which  it  was  taken.  This 
exact  order  forms  the  most  essential  part  of  neatness.  For  instance,  a 
dish  will  not  be  soiled  or  broken  if  it  is  put  in  its  proper  place  as  soon  as 
it  has  been  used.  The  carefulness  which  makes  us  place  things  in  order, 
makes  us  keep  them  clean.  Joined  to  all  these  advantages  is  that  of 
giving  to  domestics  a  habit  of  neatness  and  activity,  by  obliging  them  to 
place  things  in  order,  and  keep  them  clean." 

Dust  is  one  of  the  greatest  enemies  of  domestic  comfort,  and  a  sad 
destroyer  of  furniture.  We  are  bound  to  wage  continual  war  with  it ;  not 
only  on  this  account.  It  is  inhaled  into  the  lungs,  and  becomes  one  of 
the  sources  of  disease.  Miss  Nightingale  says  with  great  truth,  "  No 
particle  of  dust  is  ever  or  can  ever  be  removed  or  really  got  rid  of  by  the 
present  system  of  dusting.  Dusting  in  these  days  means  nothing  but 
flapping  the  dust  from  one  part  of  a  room  on  to  another  with  doors  and 
windows  closed.  What  you  do  it  for  I  cannot  think.  You  had  much 
better  leave  the  dust  alone,  if  you  are  not  going  to  take  it  away  alto- 
gether."   A  damp,  but  not  wet,  duster  will  alone  remove  without  scattering 


To  Test  the  Purity  of  the  Atmosphere,  etc. 


33i 


it ;  and  a  friend  of  ours  of  great  experience,  and  whose  house  is  a  perfect 
picture  of  cleanliness,  worthy  of  Holland  itself,  asserts  that  she  rarely 
has  her  carpets  swept.  They  are  wiped  over  with  a  damp  (but  only 
moist,  not  wet)  duster.  Thus  the  carpets  are  preserved  from  the  wear  of 
the  brush,  and  the  dust  is  not  scattered  over  curtains  and  furniture. 

Again  we  quote  from  the  wisest  of  women  : — 

"  Air  can  be  soiled  just  like  water.  If  you  blow  into  water  you  will 
soil  it  with  the  animal  matter  from  your  breath.  So  it  is  with  air.  Air 
is  always  soiled  in  a  room  where  walls  and  carpets  are  saturated  with 
animal  exhalations. 

"  Want  of  cleanliness,  then,  in  rooms  ....  may  arise  in  three 
ways. 

"  1.  Dirty  air  coming  in  from  without,  soiled  by  sewer  emanations, 
the  evaporation  from  dirty  streets,  smoke,  bits  of  unburnt  fuel,  bits  of 
straw,  bits  of  horse  dung. 

"  If  people  would  but  cover  the  outside  walls  of  their  houses  with 
plain  or  encaustic  tiles,  what  an  incalculable  improvement  would  there  be 
in  light,  cleanliness,  dryness,  warmth,  and  consequently  economy.  The 
play  of  a  fire-engine  would  then  effectually  wash  the  outside  of  a  house. 
This  kind  of  walling  would  stand  next  to  paving  in  improving  the  health 
of  towns. 

"  2.  Dirty  air  coming  from  within,  from  dust,  which  you  often  displace, 
but  never  remove.  And  if  you  never  clean  your  furniture  properly, 
how  can  your  rooms  be  anything  but  musty  ?  Ventilate  as  you  please, 
the  rooms  will  never  be  sweet.  Besides  this,  there  is  a  constant  degrada- 
tion,  as   it   is  called,  taking  place  from  everything  except  polished  or 


;lazed  articles- 


in  colouring  certain  green  papers  arsenic  is  used. 


Now  in  the  very  dust  even,  which  is  lying  about  in  rooms  hung  with  this 
kind  of  green  paper,  arsenic  has  been  distinctly  detected.  You  see  your 
dust  is  anything  but  harmless  ;  yet  you  will  let  such  dust  lie  about  your 
ledges  for  months,  your  rooms  for  ever." 

The  house  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned  from  garret  to  cellar  once 
every  year ;  the  ceilings,  if  dirty,  whitewashed,  or  papered  (the  latter  mode 
is  good,  and  the  effect,  especially  when  the  paper  covers  a  cracked  ceiling, 
excellent,  and  it  is  as  cheap  as  whitewashing,  and  can  be  done  without 
injuring  the  wall  papers),  and  the  papers  cleaned  with  bread. 

Papers  which  are  glazed  clean  best,  and  are  therefore  cheaper  in  the 
end  than  unglazed  papers.  We  give  receipts  for  cleaning  every  article  of 
household  use  in  the  following  pages  : — 


To  Test  the  Purity  of  the  Atmosphere. 

Fill  a  glass  tumbler  with  lime 
water,  and  place  it  in  any  convenient 
position.  The  rapidity  with  which 
a  pellicle  forms  on  its  surface  cor- 
responds to  the  amount  of  carbonic 
acid,  or  foul  air,  present  in  the 
atmosphere  that  surrounds  it. 

To  Clean  Wall  Papers. 
Let  the  servant  or  man  employed 


get  on  high  steps,  and  first  brush 
the  wall  all  over  with  a  perfectly  clean 
brush.  Then  divide  a  stale  loaf  in 
large  pieces,  and  rub  the  paper  down- 
wards with  it  in  firm  clear  strokes  ; 
he  must  not  go  back  over  it  with  the 
same  piece  of  bread,  nor  rub  it  up 
and  down,  only  downwards.  The 
bread  will  remove  all  the  dirt  and 
leave  the  paper  like  new ;  but  it 
must  not  be  used  dirty,  a  fresh  piece 


33* 


To  Remove  Grease  Spots. —To  Clean  Paint,  ete. 


must  be  taken  when  the  last  used  is 
soiled,  otherwise  dust  will  be  carried 
from  one  breadth  of  the  paper  to  the 
next. 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots. 

If  there  are  any  grease  spots  on 
the  paper,  cover  them  with  a  little 
moist  fuller's  earth,  and  when  it  is 
dry  brush  it  off.  Repeat  the  appli- 
cation if  required. 

To  Clean  Paint. 

This  receipt  is  given  in  an  American 
publication. 

Get  some  of  the  best  whiting  ; 
powder  it  and  then  sift  it,  so  that  it 
may  be  as  hue  as  possible.  Put  it 
in  a  plate  for  use.  Get  some  clean 
warm  water  in  a  basin,  and  apiece  of 
soft  flannel,  and  a  new  soft  chamois 
leather. 

Dip  the  flannel  in  the  water  and 
squeeze  it  nearly  dry :  then  rub  it 
down  in  the  whiting,  and  take  up  as 
much  as  will  adhere  to  it.  Rub  the 
paint  gently  with  it  and  it  will  clean 
it  perfectly.  Next  lightly  wash  the 
part  done  with  clean  water,  and  dry 
with  the  chamois  leather.  The  paint 
will  look  as  well  as  if  it  were  just 
done,  and  the  most  delicate  colours 
will  be  uninjured.  It  is  a  better 
mode  than  the  old  one  of  soap  and 
water,  and  ii  is  also  quicker  about. 

Window-cleaning  should  be  done 
by  men,  if  the  windows  are  high  up. 
Nc  woman  should  be  allowed  to  run 
the  risk  of  breaking  her  neck  from  a 
height,  nor  to  stand  where  she  is 
indelicately  exposed  to  observation, 
but  she  ought  to  clean  the  inside  of 
the  windows  with  the  footman  or 
hired  cleaner. 

Plate-glass  is  best  cleaned  with 
wet  whiting,  which  is  afterwards 
washed  off,  and  the  glass  is  rubbed 
with  a  chamois  leather. 

If  paint-splashes  have  been  left 
on  the  panes  of  glass  by  the  painter, 


it  can  be  removed  by  washing  the 
glass  with  soda  and  water,  which 
will  quite  clear  it  from  them. 

Board  Cleaning. 

Boards  should  never  be  rubbed 
across,  but  up  and  down  the  boards. 
After  being  well  scrubbed  with  soap, 
hot  water,  and  a  brush,  they  should 
be  washed  over  again  with  clean 
water  and  soft  cloth,  and  then  well 
dried  by  hard  rubbing.  To  extract 
oil  from  boards  (it  is  frequently  upset 
on  them  by  careless  painters),  make 
a  lye  of  pearl-ashes  and  rain-water  ; 
add  to  it  unslacked  lime  as  much  as 
the  water  will  absorb ;  stir  well 
together ;  let  it  settle,  and  bottle  it 
for  use.  Dilute  it  with  rain-water 
when  required,  and  wash  the  greasy 
spots  quickly  with  it.  Do  not  let  it 
remain  wet,  for  fear  of  discolouring 
the  boards.  Boards  may  be  whitened 
by  scrubbing  them  with  soft  water, 
sand,  and  slacked  lime.  This  will 
also  destroy  insects. 

How  to  Clean  Carpets. 

Carpets  should  be  swept  the  way 
of  the  pile,  with  wet  tea-leaves,  to 
prevent  the  dust  from  flying  over  the 
curtains  and  furniture,  A  short- 
handled  soft  brush  should  be  used 
for  valuable  carpets,  and  the  servant 
must  sw-eep  it  with  care  once  a  week. 
Once  a  year  carpets  should  be  well 
shaken.  For  cleaning  them  when 
they  are  laid  down,  we  recommend 
a  wash  called  Proctor's  Carpet  Re- 
novator. It  must  be  used  as  fol- 
lows : — 

Let  the  article  be  well  shaken  and 
freed  from  dust ;  then  with  a  flannel 
and  hot  water  wet  the  part  to  be 
cleaned  ;  rub  on  the  renovator,  and 
again  use  the  flannel  and  hot  water, 
then  rub  dry  with  a  towel. 

Carpets  should  be  shaken,  and 
put  down  as  for  use,  and  a  smali 
portion  done  at  a  time. 


For  Removing  Grease  from  Carpets,  etc. 


Sold  in  tablets  at  6d.  each,  or 
$s.  6d.  per  dozen. 

It  is  also  used  for  cleaning  and 
restoring  the  colours  of  carpets, 
druggets,  woollen  materials, moreens, 
damasks,  silks,  etc.,  rendering  them 
equal  to  new  with  very  little  trouble 
or  expense. 

Bedroom  carpets  should  be  wiped 
over,  especially  under  the  bed,  with 
a  damp  cloth  every  day,  or  at  least 
three  times  a  week. 

The  house-wife  who  has  her  carpets 
wiped  with  a  damp  cloth  daily  (if 
mud  be  on  them,  the  spots  must  first 
be  brushed  off),  will  find  that  it  is 
only  necessary  to  sweep  them  once 
a  week,  and  that  they  will  last  for 
years  longer  than  if  they  were  swept 
daily.  Of  course  the  cloth  must  not 
be  wet,  only  damp  enough  to  pick 
up  flue  and  dust.  But  however  it 
is  cleaned,  be  sure  that  it  is  done 
often  and  effectually,  for  the  sake  of 
health. 

"  A  dirty  carpet,"  says  Miss  Night- 
ingale, "literally  infects  the  room. 
And  if  you  consider  the  enormous 
quantity  of  organic  matter  from  the 
feet  of  people  coming  in,  which  must 
saturate  it,  this  is  by  no  means  sur- 
prising. 

"  As  to  floors,  the  only  really  clean 
floor  I  know  is  the  Berlin  lackered 
floor,  which  is  wet  rubbed  and  diy 
rubbed  every  morning  to  remove  the 
dust.  The  French  parquet  is  always 
more  or  less  dusty,  although  in- 
finitely superior  in  point  of  clean- 
liness and  healthiness  to  our  absor- 
bent floor." 

Polished  floors,  well  varnished, 
with  a  mere  strip  of  carpet  by  the 
side  of  the  bed  (in  bedrooms),  is 
better  and  healthier  than  our  present 
carpeted  rooms. 

For  Removing  Grease  from  Carpets. 

Half  a  wineglassful  of  Fuller's 
earth,  half  a  wineglassful  of  mag- 
nesia.    Mix  the  above   in   a  basin 


with  boiling  water  ;  put  it  hot  on  the 
grease-spot  or  spots,  and  leave  it  on 
till  it  is  dry,  then  brush  it  off,  and 
you  will  find  the  spots  are  gone. 
Or  if  the  grease  is  recent,  lay  a  sheet 
of  blotting-paper  over  it  and  iron 
over  the  spot  with  a  hot  flat  iron  ; 
it  will  come  out  into  the  blotting- 
paper,  but  you  must  keep  moving 
the  paper  and  applying  fresh  parts 
of  it  till  the  heat  has  absorbed  the 
whole  of  the  grease. 

To  Remove  Ink  from  Carpets. 

If  the  ink  is  just  spilled,  take  up 
as  much  as  you  can  with  a  spoon 
and  with  blotting-paper.  When  you 
have  taken  off  all  that  is  possible, 
wash  well  with  skim  milk  (London 
milk  does  as  it  is),  then  wash  again 
with  hot  water.  As  soon  as  the 
accident  happens,  wet  the  place  with 
juice  of  sorrel,  or  lemon,  or  vinegar, 
and  the  best  hard  white  soap.  Old 
ink-stains  are  hard  to  get  out  ;  but 
they  can  be  removed  by  first  wetting 
the  spot,  and  then  applying  salts  of 
sorrel.  Wash  off  immediately,  how- 
ever. 

Fuller's  earth  mixed  with  lemon- 
juice  will  also  take  other  stains  out 
of  carpets. 

Carpets  should  not  be  swept  with 
the  whisk-brush  above  once  a  week. 
It  wears  them  out  if  it  is  used 
ofcener. 

To  Clean  Floor  Cloths. 

Sweep  them,  and  wash  them  now 
and  then  with  milk  ;  never  scour 
them  with  a  brush,  or  use  soap  or 
hot  water  to  them,  as  it  would  take 
off  the  paint.  A  soft  cloth  and  luke- 
warm water  are  all  that  is  required 
to  clean  them. 

Oil-cloths  are  washed  when  they 
require  it  with  a  soft  flannel  wetted 
with  milk ;  or  with  a  mixture  of 
salad-oil  and  weak  table  beer. 
Never  use  soda  or  soap  to  them. 


134 


To  Clean  Strata  Matting. —  To  Clean  Glass,  etc. 


To  Clean  Greasy  Cocoa-nut  Matting. 

Thoroughly  scrub  it  all  over  with 
hot  water  and  soap,  then  loosely  fold 
it  and  put  it  into  a  large  washing- 
tub.  Pour  a  quantity  of  cold  water 
over  it.  then  hang  it  out  on  a  line  in 
the  sun  to  dry. 

To  Clean  Straw  Matting. 

Wash  as  seldom  as  possible  ;  but 
when  it  becomes  imperatively  neces- 
sary to  do  so,  use  salt  and  water. 
Salt  will  prevent  the  matting  from 
turning  yellow.  Dry  as  fast  as  you 
wash,  and  wash  only  a  small  space 
at  a  time. 

Stained  boards  are  dusted  and 
polished  as  stained  furniture  would 
be. 

To  Clean  Glass. 

Tumblers  and  wine-glasses  should 
be  washed  in  cold  water  in  which  a 
little  soda  is  dissolved,  then  turned 
up  to  drain,  dried  with  a  soft,  clean, 
and  dry  cloth,  and  finally  polished 
with  a  leather  or  an  old  silk  hand- 
kerchief. Chandelier  or  lustre  glasses 
are  washed  in  the  same  way.  De- 
canters require  careful  cleaning.  First 
have  ready  some  strong  suds  of  white 
soap  and  water  and  a  little  pearl- 
ash.  Mash  up  an  egg-shell  well, 
drop  it  into  the  bottle,  pour  in 
some  of  the  soap-suds,  and  shake  it 
well  about  till  the  bottle  is  clean, 
then  empty  it ;  put  in  fresh  suds  and 
clean  inside  with  a  small  sponge  on 
the  end  of  a  glass-stick  ;  rinse  out 
twice  with  clean  cold  water.  Next 
put  them  into  the  soap  suds,  and  if 
they  are  cut,  wash  them  with  a  re- 
gular glass-brush ;  next  rinse  the 
outside.  Dry  the  inside  with  a  small 
clean  piece  of  linen  on  the  end  of 
your  glass-stick.  Wipe  the  outside 
with  a  dry  glass-cloth,  and  polish  off 
with  a  leather  or  silk  handkerchief. 

For  cleaning  and  mending  china, 
see  "  China  Closet.'; 


To  Remove  Rust. 

To  remove  rust  from  steel,  cover 
with  sweet  oil,  well  rubbed  on  it ;  in 
forty-eight  hours  use  unslacked  lime 
powdered  very  fine.  Rub  it  till  the 
rust  disappears.  To  prevent  the 
rust,  mix  with  fat  oil  varnish  four- 
fifths  of  well-rectified  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine. The  varnish  is  to  be  ap- 
plied by  means  of  a  sponge  ;  and 
articles  varnished  in  this  manner 
will  retain  their  brilliancy,  and  never 
contract  any  spots  of  rust.  It  may 
be  applied  to  copper,  philosophical 
instruments,  etc. 

To  Distinguish  Iron  from  Steel. 

Let  a  drop  of  diluted  nitric  acid 
fall  on  the  metal,  and  after  a  few 
minutes  wash  it  off  with  water.  If 
the  metal  be  steel,  a  black  spot  will 
be  left  on  it ;  if  it  be  iron,  a  whitish- 
grey  spot  will  remain.  The  reason 
is,  that  the  nitric  acid  dissolves  the 
iron  in  both  cases,  but  the  charcoal 
that  enters  into  the  composition  of 
the  steel  remains  undissolved,  and 
constitutes  the  blackness. 

To  Clean  Marble. 

One  oz.  of  potash,  2  oz.  of  whiten- 
ing, and  a  square  of  yellow  soap,  cut 
into  small  pieces  ;  boil  all  together 
in  a  saucepan,  until  it  begins  to 
thicken ;  apply  this  with  a  large 
brush  to  the  marble.  If  the  marble 
is  very  dirty,  let  it  remain  on  all 
night  ;  if  not,  one  hour  will  be  suffi- 
cient. Then  wash  it  carefully  off 
with  plenty  of  cold  water  and  a 
sponge.  Take  care  the  mixture  is 
not  applied  too  hot.     Or  : — 

Equal  quantities  of  soft  soap  and 
pearlash. 

Put  the  soap  and  pearlash  on  the 
chimney-piece  with  a  soft  flannel ; 
let  it  lie  on  it  for  a  few  minutes. 
Wash  it  off  with  warm  water,  not 
too  hot ;  wash  it  over  a  second  time 
with  cold  spring  water.     Acids  act 


To  Clean  Brass. — To  Clean  Ormolu  Ornaments,  cte. 


335 


on  marble.  Marble  is  itself  com- 
posed of  carbonate  of  lime — that  is, 
it  is  a  compound  of  carbonic  acid 
and  lime.  Now  the  carbonic  acid 
has  a  comparatively  weak  affinity 
for  lime,  and  most  other  acids  will 
prevail  over  it  and  take  its  place 
when  brought  into  contact  with  it ; ! 
thus  destroying  the  texture  of  the  j 
stone,  liberating  the  carbonic  acid, 
and  leaving  some  salt  of  lime,  in 
the  form  of  a  white  powder,  in  its 
place. 

When  marble  has  had  its  polished 
surface  eroded  by  acids — and  even 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar  will  do  this 
readily — the  only  mode  of  repara- 
tion is  to  have  the  marble  again 
polished  by  the  use  of  polishing 
powders,  such  as  emery. 

Neither  spirits  nor  water  produce 
any  permanent  effect  on  marble, 
but  fixed  oils  and  grease  soak  into 
its  substance,  and  it  is  impossible 
to  remove  them,  as  any  agent  potent 
enough  to  act  on  the  grease  will 
also  destroy  the  texture  of  the  mar- 
ble. A  portion  of  the  grease  may 
be  extracted  by  covering  with  ful- 
ler's earth  or  pipeclay.  But  marble 
should  be  carefully  preserved  from 
contact  with  grease  or  oil. 

Alabaster  is  so  called  from  Ala- 
bastron,  the  name  of  a  small  town 
in  Upper  Egypt,  near  which  the 
stone  was  very  abundant.  There 
are  two  kinds  of  alabaster,  one  a 
white  semi-transparent  sulphate  of 
lime,  and  the  other  a  compact  crys- 
talline carbonate  of  lime,  The 
former  is  the  real  alabaster,  and  is 
so  soft  that  it  may  be  scratched 
with  the  nail,  while  the  latter  is 
quite  hard  and  effervesces  in  acid. 

Alabaster  must  not  be  cleaned 
with  soap  and  water.  It  is  cleaned 
by  rubbing  it  with  lemon-juice  by 
the  Italian  manufacturers  of  it. 

To  Clean  Brass. 
Rub  it  with  a  little  sal  ammoniac 


finely  powdered  and  wet.  Warm 
the  brass  first :  polish  with  wash 
leather.     Or  : — 

Rub  with  a  soft  wash-leather 
dipped  in  sweet  oil ;  then  with  finely 
powdered  rotten-stone.  Polish  with 
wash-leather.  The  Americans  use 
powdered  rotten-stone,  well  mixed 
with  a  pint  of  water.  Then  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sulphuric  acid  is  added. 
This  mixture  is  applied  gently,  then 
rubbed  off,  and  the  brass  polished 
with  powdered  whiting  which  has 
been  sifted  through  muslin.  Use 
wash-leather  in  all  cases.  Some 
persons  wash  the  brass  with  the 
sulphuric  acid  and  water,  and  then 
polish  with  rotten  stone,  etc.,  etc. 


To  Clean  Ormolu  Ornaments. 

The  best  way  to  clean  ormolu 
ornaments  is  to  rub  whiting,  mois- 
tened with  gin,  well  on  the  articles 
with  an  old  toothbrush.  Rub  it  off 
with  a  clean  one,  and  polish  with  a 
leather. 

To  Clean  Real  Bronze. 

Wash  the  ornaments  gently  (with 
a  sponge)  with  soap  and  water, 
then  rinse  them  in  beer.  Do  not 
wipe  it  off  or  rub  the  ornaments  at 
all,  but  place  them  in  a  warm  room, 
at  a  little  distance  from  the  fire, 
until  they  are  quite  dry.  Use  very 
little  soap. 

Bronzed  chandeliers,  lamps,  etc., 
should  be  only  dusted  with  a  feather 
brush  or  soft  cloth.  Washing  takes 
off  the  bronzing. 


To  Clean  Gilt  Lamp  and  Chandeliers. 

Wipe  off  the  dust  with  a  soft 
cloth,  and  wash  gently  with  fine 
soap-suds  and  soft  hckewarm  water. 
Any  wrought  work  may  be  carefully 
cleaned  out  with  a  very  soft  tooth- 
brush. 


;s6 


To  Clean  Steel  and  Iron,  etc. 


To  Clean  Steel  and  Iron. 


One  ounce  of  soft  soap,  two 
ounces  of  emery,  made  into  a  paste : 
then  rub  the  article  for  cleaning 
with  wash-leather,  and  it  will  give 
a  brilliant  polish. 

For  Removing  Paint  from  Wood. 

Mix  lib.  of  soda,  such  as  is  used 
for  washing ;  2lbs.  of  lime,  un- 
slacked.  If  the  paint  is  very  strong 
on  the  wood,  add  \Vo.  of  potash. 

Mix  these  ingredients  together, 
and  dilute  with  water  until  the  mix- 
ture becomes  rather  thicker  than 
whitewash,  and  then  rub  it  on  the 
paint  with  a  piece  of  wood  folded 
up  in  rag.  The  person  who  uses 
this  preparation  must  be  careful  not 
to  touch  it  with  his  hand. 

To  Clean  Japanned  Waiters,  Urns,  etc. 

Rub  on  with  a  sponge  a  little 
white  soap  and  some  lukewarm 
water,  and  wash  the  waiter  or  urn 
quite  clean.  Never  use  hot  water, 
as  it  will  cause  the  japan  to  scale 
off.  Having  wiped  it  dry,  sprinkle 
a  little  flour  over  it ;  let  it  rest  a 
while,  and  then  rub  it  with  a  soft 
dry  cloth,  and  finish  with  a  silk 
handkerchief.  If  there  are  white 
heat  marks  on  the  waiters,  they  will 
be  difficult  to  remove.  But  you 
may  try  rubbing  them  with  a  flannel 
dipped  in  sweet  oil,  and  afterwards 
in  spirits  of  wine.  Waiters  and 
other  articles  of  papier  mache  should 
be  washed  with  a  sponge  and  cold 
water,  without  soap,  dredged  with 
flour  while  damp  ;  and  after  a  while 
wiped  off,  and  then  polished  with  a 
silk  handkerchief. 

Wood  Furniture. 

The  greatest  care  should  be  taken 
to  keep  furniture  fresh  and  clean. 
If  the  house-wife  is  neat  and  careful 
her  property  will  last  much  longer 
than   otherwise,   and    her  dwelling 


will  always  possess  a  charm  too 
often  wanting  in  more  pretentious 
dwellings. 

Furniture  which  is  French  po- 
lished should  be  carefully  dusted 
every  day,  and  polished  once  a 
week  with  the  furniture  polish  to 
be  bought  at  any  good  chemist's. 
Generally  these  polishes  are  better 
and  really  cheaper  than  any  that 
the  housekeeper  can  make  herself. 
"  The  chemical  and  mechanical  ac- 
tion of  different  substances  on 
articles  of  furniture  is  very  little 
understood  by  persons  in  general, 
and  consequently  the  most  absurd 
directions  are  frequently  issued  for 
the  preparation  of  cleaning  materials, 
and  also  for  preventing  injury  from 
certain  agents.  The  substances  from 
which  furniture  is  chiefly  exposed  to 
injury  are  water,  oils,  spirits  of 
various  kinds,  such  as  brandy,  eau- 
de-Cologne,  benzine,  etc.,  and  acids. 

Varnishes,  or  polished  surfaces  of 
wood  are  easily  injured  by  volatile 
mineral  spirits,  such  as  those  used 
for  lamps,  or  by  any  alcoholic  spirit, 
as  brandy,  or  wine.  The  polish  is 
composed  of  gums  and  resins  which 
are  soluble  in  spirits.  Many  of 
these  polishes  or  varnishes  are  made 
by  dissolving  the  materials  in  alco- 
hol, then  when  they  are  applied  the 
spirit  evaporates  and  the  gum  or 
resin  is  left  in  a  thin  polish  or 
varnish  on  the  wood.  Of  course,  if 
wine,  brandy,  or  spirits  of  wine  fall 
on  it,  a  portion  of  it  is  again  dis- 
solved, and  the  brilliancy  of  the 
surface  is  destroyed.  The  only  re- 
medy for  these  kinds  of  stains  or 
marks  is  to  have  the  table,  or  what- 
ever it  may  be,  repolished. 

Heat  has  the  same  effect  on 
French  polish.  A  hot  plate,  or  dish, 
or  cup,  or  mug,  placed  on  it,  leaves 
its  shape  as  a  dull  mark  on  the 
table.  Therefore,  dining  tables  are 
better  not  French  polished,  but  well 
rubbed  with  oil.     When  furniture  is 


A  Capital  Receipt  for  Polishing  Tables,  etc. 


37 


not  French  polished,  it  is  well  to 
rub  it  with  linseed  oil,  slightly 
coloured  with  alkanet  root.  Every 
time  the  dinner  table  is  rubbed  all 
the  leaves  should  be  put  in,  so  that 
the  portions  of  the  table  may  be  of 
the  same  colour,  for  oil  darkens 
mahogany,  and  if  the  leaves  are  not 
rubbed  every  time  there  will  soon 
be  a  great  difference  of  shade  be- 
tween them  and  the  table. 

A  Capital  Receipt  for  Polishing  Tables. 

Cold-drawn  linseed  oil,  I  pint ; 
spirits  of  wine,  I  oz. ;  white  tonic 
vinegar,  I  pint  ;  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine, i  oz. ;  powdered  gum  arabic, 
\  oz.  ;  butter  of  antimony,  i^  oz. ; 
spirits  of  salt,  I  oz. 

The  above  ingredients  to  be  well 
mixed  together  and  shaken  previous 
to  being  used. 

Family  Receipt  for  Polish  for  Furniture 
not  French  Polished. 

Three  oz.  of  bees'  wax;  3  oz.  of  hard 
white  soap  ;  1  oz.  of  spermaceti, 
cut  up  small  and  simmered  in  a 
pint  of  water,  keeping  it  stirred  all 
the  time.  Pour  it  into  a  jar  and 
keep  it  well  covered. 

We  give  the  following  excellent 
receipt,  which  proves  experimentally 
to  be  good  for  those  who  may  wish 
to  polish  a  table  or  box  for  them- 
selves, premising  that  the  surface  to 
which  it  is  applied  must  be  perfectly 
cleansed  first : — 

French  Polish. 

Shellac,  one  ounce  and  a  half; 
mastic,  half  an  ounce  ;  sandarac, 
half  an  ounce ;  rectified  spirits  of 
wine,  two  ounces.  Pound  the  gums 
very  finely  in  a  mortar,  and  put 
them  in  a  bottle  which  will  rather 
more  than  hold  the  whole  quantity  ; 
stand  the  bottle  in  a  kettle  of  cold 
water,  which  bring  slowly  to  a  boil ; 


let  it  boil  for  some  time,  until  the 
contents  of  the  bottle  become  like 
treacle  (this  requires  great  care), 
stirring  the  while  with  a  wire  rod. 
Roll  several  yards  of  flannel  list 
into  a  flat  coil,  put  a  little  sweet  oil 
on  it,  and  cover  with  a  piece  of  old 
linen  ;  on  this  apply  the  polish. — 
The  Field. 

Furniture  Polish. 

Half  a  pint  of  spirits  of  wine  ;  \  oz. 
of  gum  shellac  ;  \  oz.  of  gum  ben- 
zoin ;  \  oz.  of  gum  sandarac. 

Put  the  whole  into  a  bottle  for  a 
day  or  two,  and  shake  it  a  few  times. 
When  the  gums  are  dissolved  it  is 
fit  for  use.  When  you  think  the 
polish  is  laid  on  thick  enough,  take 
a  clean  wad  and  cloth,  put  a  little 
clean  spirits  of  wine  on  the  wad,  the 
same  as  you  did  the  polish,  and  rub 
it  up  the  same  way,  but  rub  very 
lightly,  and  rub  until  quite  dry. 
You  must  put  a  little  oil  on  the 
cloth  the  same  as  in  laying  on  the 
polish. 

For  Polishing  Furniture. 

Half  a  pint  of  vinegar  ;  half  a  pint 
of  linseed  oil ;  two  pennyworth  of 
butter  of  antimony. 

To  Clean  the  Face  of  Soft  Mahogany 
or  other  Wood. 

After  scraping  and  sand-papering 
in  the  usual  manner,  take  a  sponge 
and  well  wet  the  surface  to  raise  the 
grain ;  then  with  a  piece  of  fine 
pumice-stone,  free  from  stony  par- 
ticles, rub  the  way  of  the  fibres  ;  rub 
the  wood  in  the  direction  of  the 
grain,  keeping  it  moist  with  water ; 
let  the  wood  dry  then ;  if  you  wet  it 
again  you  will  find  the  grain  much 
smoother,  and  it  will  not  rise  so 
much ;  repeat  the  process,  and  you 
will  find  the  surface  perfectly  smooth, 
and  the  texture  of  the  wood  much 
hardened.  By  this  means  common 
soft  Honduras  mahogany  will  hare 


33$ 


To  Clean  and  Lay  by  Curtains,  etc. 


a  face  equal  to  Hispaniola.  If  this 
does  not  succeed  to  your  satisfac- 
tion, you  may  improve  the  surface 
by  using  the  pumice-stone  with  cold- 
drawn  linseed  oil,  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  you  proceeded  with  water ; 
this  will  be  found  to  put  a  most 
beautiful,  as  well  as  durable,  face 
to  the  wood,  which  must  then  be 
polished  or  varnished. 

To  Clean  and  Lay  by  Curtains. 

In  summer  it  is  usual  to  lay  by 
curtains  of  rep,  damask,  or  chintz, 
and  replace  them  with  lace  or  mus- 
lin curtains,  which  look  much  cooler, 
and  the  more  expensive  rep  and 
chintz  are  preserved  by  it.  Rep 
curtains  should  be  well  brushed  and 
shaken  ;  wrapped  in  linen  cloths, 
and  put  away  (protected  by  bags  of 
pepper,  cedar  shavings,  or  cam- 
phor, from  the  chance  of  moths)  in 
a  dry  closet  or  a  deep  drawer. 
Chintz  should  be  spread  on  a  long 
table  and  rubbed  all  over  with  clean 
bran  and  flannel,  which  cleans  the 
glaze  nicely.  Then  fold  and  lay 
them  by.  If  chintz  curtains  have 
the  dust  blown  off  them  once  a 
week  by  a  pair  of  bellows,  and  are 
taken  down  and  well  shaken  once  a 
quarter,  they  will  last  seven  years 
without  .  requiring  cleaning.  The 
writer  speaks  from  experience  in 
this  matter.  It  is  wiser  to  have  lace 
and  muslin  curtains  cleaned  than 
washed,  and  quite  as  cheap.  Chintz 
should  also  be  sent  to  be  cleaned 
and  re-glazed  when  dirty. 

To  Clean  Covers  which  are  not  Silver. 

Put  a  piece  of  mottled  soap  (about 
2  oz.)  and  about  the  same  quantity 
of  whiting  into  a  jug  and  pour 
boiling  water  on  it  ;  mix  till  it  be- 
comes a  thick  paste,  quite  smooth. 
Then  rub  it  on  the  covers,  let  it  dry, 
and  rub  off  with  dry  whiting  and  a 
leather.     This  preserves  the  covers 


from  being  scratched.  The  insides 
and  outsides  of  covers  should  be 
carefully  wiped  the  moment  they 
are  brought  from  the  table. 

There  are  also  pastes  sold  for 
cleaning  covers,  about  the  best  of 
which  is  Graham's  paste;  but  the 
old  fashioned  mode  of  using  soap 
and  whiting  for  the  purpose  does 
very  well  and  preserves  the  covers 
longer. 

When  they  are  plated,  they  are 
best  cleaned  like  other  plate,  with 
gin  and 
powder. 

To  Clean  Tins. 

Clean  tins  as  you  would  clean 
covers,  with  soap  and  whiting  mixed 
to  a  cream  in  boiling  water.  Lay 
it  on  with  a  piece  of  leather ;  let  it 
dry,  and  then  rub  it  off  with  dry 
whiting  and  a  clean  leather. 

To  Clean  Copper  and  Brass. 

Mix  oil  and  brickdust,  or  oil  and 
finely  powdered  rotten-stone  (sifted 
through  muslin)  together  ;  rub  it  on 
with  a  piece  of  leather ;  let  it  rest  a 
little  on,  and  then  rub  off  with  a  dry 
soft  leather. 

Many  people  use  oil  of  turpentine 
and  rotten-stone,  but  the  copper  very 
soon  tarnishes  after  its  use ;  others 
use  oxalic  acid,  but  this  is  so  dan- 
gerous a  poison,  and  so  painful  if  it 
chances  to  get  into  the  servant's 
eyes,  that  we  strongly  object  to  its 
use. 

To  Clean  Lacquered  Brass. 

Wash  with  a  stiff  lather  of  soap 
and  water ;  let  the  brass  lie  in  it  for 
three  days,  taking  it  out  every  day 
and  brushing  it  with  a  hard  brush  ; 
let  it  dry,  and  then  rub  it  with  a 
eather. 

To  Clean  Stair-rods. 

Mix  finely-powdered  rotten-stone 
and  sweet  oil  to  a  paste,  then  rub  it 


/.      Hoars  lira//. 
1 .    Wassail  Bowl. 


3.  Punch  Bowl. 
4*.  Roast  Swan. 
5.    Punch  Jelly. 


6.  Lambs  Wool ' . 

7.  Truffles. 


To  Clean  Candlesticks,  Plate,  tic. 


339 


on  each  rod  with  a  piece  of  flannel 
or  woollen.  Polish  with  the  dry 
powder  of  the  rotten-stone  and  a 
nice  leather. 

The  same  mixture,  carefully  ap- 
plied to  inlaid  brass  or  brass  handles 
of  furniture,  answers  very  well  ;  but 
care  must  be  taken  not  to  let  it 
lodge  in  any  network  or  hollows  of 
the  brass. 

To  Clean  Candlesticks. 

Melt  all  the  wax  or  grease  off  with 
boiling  water  ;  but  on  no  account 
melt  it  by  putting  the  candlesticks 
before  the  fire,  as  it  melts  the  solder. 
Tin  candlesticks  must  be  cleaned  as 
other  tins  are.  Plated  candlesticks 
should  be  cleaned  with  plate-pow- 
der. 

To  Clean  the  Inside  of  Pots,  Pans, 
and  Kettles. 

Boil  in  the  kettle  or  pot  a  little 
sal-ammoniac  for  the  space  of  one 
hour,  to  remove  the  fur.  Be  sure  to 
wash  out  a  dirty  saucepan  with  boil- 
ing water  the  moment  you  finish 
using  it. 

To  Clean  Steel  or  Iron. 

Make  a  paste  of  two  ounces  of 
soft  soap  and  four  of  emery-powder 
—  that  is,  two  ounces  of  coarse 
emery-powder  and  two  of  fine.  Put 
this  paste  on  fire-irons,  fenders,  etc., 
and  afterwards  rub  off  with  dry  wash- 
leather.  Some  people  use  crocus- 
powder  moistened  with  sweet  oil. 
This  is  best  for  polished  steel. 

To  take  Rust  out  of  Steel. 

The  steel  must  be  covered  with 
sweet  oil,  and  left  for  48  hours,  then 


rubbed  with  leather,  and  this  must 
be  repeated  till  the  rust  is  removed. 
Or  you  may  rub  it  with  the  finest 
emery-paper. 

To  Clean  Cast  Iron  and  Black  Hearths. 

Mix  together  blacklcad  and  whites 
of  eggs  to  a  liquid  consistency ;  paint 
the  stove,  etc.,  all  over  with  it,  and 
rub  bright  with  a  hard  brush.* 

To  Clean  Looking-Glasses. 

Wash  them  with  spirits  of  wine  ; 
dry  them  ;  powder  slightly  with 
whiting,  and  rub  off  with  a  leather. 
Take  care  that  the  whiting  does  not 
get  into  the  edge  of  the  frame. 

Polish  the  mahogany  frames  with 
furniture  paste.  Beware  of  spill- 
ing scents  on  polished  looking-glass 
frames,  as  it  removes  the  polish. 

To  Clean  Plate. 

Plate  should  be  treated  with  great 
care.  Never  put  it  into  a  basket  or 
tray  with  knives,  nor  mix  spoons  with 
forks,  for  fear  of  making  scratches, 
which  nothing  will  remove.  Wash 
it  directly  it  comes  from  table  with 
warm  water  and  soap,  rinse  it  in 
cold  water,  wipe  it,  rub  it  well  with 
a  leather.  Never  suffer  mercurial 
preparations  to  be  used  for  silver. 
It  is  a  really  saving  plan  to  boil  it 
for  half  an  hour  in  soft  water,  with 
whiting  and  yellow  soap  enough  to 
make  a  lather.  Rinse  it  with  cold 
water,  wipe  with  a  soft  towel,  and 
rub  with  a  leather. 

Gas  blackens  silver  sadly,  and  the 
deep  stain  can  only  be  removed  by 
a  plate-powder.  Rouge  (which  is 
made  by  the  precipitation  of  sulphate 


*  A  most  excellent  varnish  to  prevent  rust  is  made  of  one  pint  of  fat  oil 
vamish,  mixed  with  five  pints  of  highly  rectified  spirits  of  turpentine,  rubbed  on 
the  iron  or  steel  with  a  sponge.  This  varnish  may  be  applied  to  bright  stoves, 
and  even  mathematical  instruments,  without  hinting  their  delicate  polish. — Dr. 
Brewer's  "  Guide  to  Science,"  p.  260. 

t   1 


34° 


To  take  Stains  out  of  Silver,  etc. 


of  iron  by  carbonate  of  potash ) 
is  most  generally  used,  and  does 
very  well.  In  our  own  household 
the  plate  is  cleaned  by  being  first 
nicely  washed  in  warm  water  and 
wiped  dry.  Then  a  mixture  is  made 
with  whiting  and  gin,  or  spirits  of 
wine  (which  is  in  many  respects 
better),  and  it  is  rubbed  wet  on  the 
silver.  A  sponge  is  used  to  rub 
this  mixture  on,  as  it  is  soft.  It  is 
let  dry  very  thoroughly,  so  that  it  will 
rub  off  like  powder  with  a  piece  of 
flannel ;  then  it  is  polished  with  a 
chamois  leather.  Be  sure  that  the 
whiting  is  reduced  to  the  finest  pos- 
sible powder.  It  should  be  ground 
quite  fine  and  even,  then  sifted 
through  coarse  book-muslin,  as  any 
rough  bits  will  scratch. 

To  take  Stains  out  of  Silver. 

Steep  the  plate  in  soap,  let  it  lie  for 
four  hours,  then  cover  it  with  whiting 
wet  with  vinegar,  so  that  it  may 
stick  upon  the  silver,  and  dry  it  by 
the  fire  ;  after  which  rub  off  the 
whiting,  rub  it  over  with  dry  bran, 
and  the  spots  will  disappear,  and 
the  plate  look  bright. 

To  Remove  Ink  Stains  from  Silver. 

The  tops  and  other  portions  of 
silver  ink-stands  frequently  become 
deeply  discoloured  with  ink,  which 
is  difficult  to  remove  by  ordinary 
means.  It  may,  however,  be  com- 
pletely eradicated  by  making  a  little 
chloride  of  lime  into  a  paste  with 
water,  and  rubbing  it  upon  the 
stains. 

An  Old  Family  Receipt  to  make  Plate 
look  like  New. 

Take  of  unslaked  lime  and  alum 
a  pound  each,  of  aqua  vitae  and 
vinegar  each  a  pint,  and  of  beer- 
grounds  two  quarts  ;  boil  the  plate 
in  these  ingredients,  and  it  will  re- 
ceive a  beautiful  polish  from  them. 


Plate  is  best  polished  by  the  naked 
hand,  but  the  operation  gives  some 
pain  to  the  rubber.  Jewellers  thus 
polish  plate,  but  it  requires  the  thick- 
skinned,  yet  soft,  palm  of  a  practised 
hand  to  do  it. 

Egg-spoons  get  discoloured  and 
tarnished  by  the  sulphur  in  the  egg 
uniting  with  the  silver  as  soon  as  it 
is  moistened  by  saliva.  This  tarnish 
is  a  sulphuret  of  silver,  and  may 
easily  be  removed  by  rubbing  it  with 
table  salt  or  a  little  hartshorn. 

Let  the  plate  in  use  be  counted 
over  every  night — a  card  with  a  list 
being  kept  in  the  plate-basket — and 
the  basket  carried  to  the  master's  or 
lady's  room. 

To  Clean  Britannia  Metal. 

Finely  powdered  whiting,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  oil,  and  a 
little  yellow  soap  melted  to  some 
thickness  :  mix,  with  a  little  spirits 
of  wine.  Rub  this  cream  on  with  a 
sponge  or  soft  flannel,  wipe  it  off 
with  a  soft  cloth,  and  polish  with  a 
leather. 

To  Clean  a  Metal  Teapot. 

Put  into  it  a  solution  of  common 
soda  boiling  hot ;  let  it  stand  twelve 
hours  near  the  fire ;  then  pour  it 
away,  and  wipe  with  a  clean  cloth. 

To  Clean  Gilding. 

Brush  off  dust  with  a  feather 
brush.  Never  wipe  with  linen,  it 
takes  off  and  deadens  the  gilding. 

To  Clean  Steel  Knives  and  Forks. 

The  moment  used  knives  are 
taken  into  the  kitchen,  they  should 
be  dipped  in  warm  water  and 
wiped,  taking  ca7'e  not  to  wet  the 
handles. 

Knives  are  cleaned  on  a  board 
covered  with  I  ndia-rubber,  with  brick- 
dust  sold  for  the  purpose.  In  some 
large  families    Kent's  knife-cleaner 


To  make  Windows  like  Ground  Glass,  etc. 


I4i 


is  used.  This  machine  saves  labour, 
but  requires  care  in  putting  the  knives 
in.  Printed  directions  and  a  powder 
for  it  are  sold  with  the  machine. 

Knives  are  cleaned  on  the  board 
by  being  rubbed  smartly  on  it,  with 
brick-dust  spread  on  the  surface. 
Steel  forks  are  washed,  dried,  and 
also  rubbed  on  the  board  with  brick- 
dust.  The  intervals  between  the 
prongs  are  cleaned  with  a  small  bit 
of  stick  wrapped  in  leather  and 
rubbed  in  brick-dust. 

Knives  are  often  stained  by  fruit 
or  vinegar.  The  stains  can  be  re- 
moved by  rubbing  them  with  a  piece 
of  raw  potato  before  they  are  cleaned 
on  the  board. 

To  make  Windows  like  Ground  Glass. 

Make  a  hot  solution  of  sal-ammo- 
niac. Brush  the  solution  over  the 
pane  or  panes  ;  the  moisture  will 
instantly  evaporate  and  leave  a  beau- 
tiful radiated  deposit. 

Flies. 

House-flies  are  very  destructive  to 
furniture.  They  may  be  effectually 
destroyed  by  mixing  half  a  spoonful 
of  ground  black  pepper,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  cream.  Place  the  mixture  in  a 
room  where  flies  are  troublesome. 

Or  :— Put  saucers  of  strong  green 
tea,  sweetened, about  the  room.  This 
will  poison  flies. 

They  also  dislike  elder  leaves,  and 
will  keep  away  from  them. 


To  Kill  Beetles  or  Crickets. 

Parings  of  cucumber  strewn  near 
their  holes,  or  strong  snuff. 

To  get  rid  of  Ants. 

A  little  green  sage  placed  in  their 
haunts  will  drive  them  away.  Quick- 
lime scattered  over  their  hills  and 
watered,  will  destroy  them. 

How  to  take  Ink  out  of  Boards. 

Strong  muriatic  acid  or  spirits  of 
salts,  applied  with  a  piece  of  cloth  ; 
afterwards  well  washed  with  water. 

To  Purify  Bottles. 

Wash  well  with  water  and  powdered 
charcoal. 

To  take  out  Spots  of  Ink. 

As  soon  as  the  accident  happens, 
wet  the  place  with  juice  of  sorrel  or 
lemon,  or  with  vinegar,  and  then  rub 
with  best  hard  soap. 

Cement  for  Glass. 

Equal  parts  of  flour,  powdered 
chalk,  and  finely  pulverized  glass  ; 
half  the  quantity  of  brick-dust, 
scraped  lint,  and  white  of  egg. 

To  Preserve  Water  Fresh. 

Put  into  the  barrel  or  cistern  3  lbs. 
of  black  oxide  of  maganese,  pow- 
dered ;  stir  it  well,  and  the  water  will 
keep  good  an  indefinite  time. 


342 


THE    LAUNDRY   AND    FUEL. 


THE  LAUNDRY, 

Washing  is  in  the  present  day  seldom  done  at  home,  unless  the  family 
reside  in  the  country,  for  drying-ground  in  London  and  other  large  towns 
is  wanting.  The  laundress,  therefore,  fetches  the  soiled  linen  on  Mondays 
and  returns  it  on  Saturday.  The  charges  for  washing  differ  in  different 
places.  In  London  it  is  possible to  get  it  done  for  is.  per  dozen,  including 
everything  ;  but  this  is  not  the  price  of  good  washing.  Ordinary  London 
charges  are — id.  each  the  large  articles  of  underclothing,  except  petticoats, 
which  vary  from  4^.  to  6d.  orSd.,  according  to  trimming  ;  id.  the  stockings 
per  pair,  collars  id.  each,  cuffs  id.  the  pair,  table-cloths  4d.,  kitchen  do.  3d., 
table  napkins  id.  each,  sheets  ^d.  per  pair,  towels  gd.  per  dozen,  handker- 
chiefs \d.  each,  fish  cloths  id.  each,  counterpanes  Lf.,  curtains  2s.,  etc.  etc. 
Servants  are  usually  allowed  is.  3d.  per  week  each  for  their  own  washing. 

But  many  trifling  articles  may  be  washed  at  home  even  in  London,  and 
the  house-mother  who  can  do  her  own  lace,  or  the  costly  trifles  belonging  to 
the  baby,  will  find  that  she  saves  much  more  than  the  pence  charged 
for  washing.    Fine  work  and  lace  will  last  instead  of  rapidly  going  to  rags. 

Two  books  should  be  kept  for  the  laundress — one  at  home  and  one  in 
her  hands — to  prevent  any  possible  loss  of  the  list.  The  clothes  should 
be  looked  over  on  Monday  morning,  sorted,  mended  if  required,  and  put 
up  for  the  wash.     All  stains  should  be  removed  before  the  article  is  sent. 

The  laundress  brings  the  clothes  home  on  Saturday.  The  housemaid 
should  count  it  over  carefully  by  the  book,  and  look  at  the  marks,  so  that 
nothing  may  be  changed,  for  an  exchange  is  sometimes  as  bad  as  a  loss. 

Washing  at  home  must  now  be  taken  into  consideration.  A  woman 
is  generally  hired  to  assist  the  servants  where  there  is  no  washing-machine ; 
her  wages  are  in  London  is.  a  day,  and  she  expects  beer  three  times  a  day, 
and  gin-and-water  at  night.  Everything  is  put  ready  for  her  before  she 
arrives. 

Where  a  laundrymaid  is  kept,  no  assistance  is  of  course  given,  though 
sometimes  the  under  servants  assist  in  the  ironing. 

The  washing  and  wringing  machines  of  recent  invention  make  household 
washing,  where  there  is  a  drying-ground,  both  cheap  and  easy.  In 
general,  servants  will  not  use  machines,  disliking  the  trouble  of  cleaning 
them  ;  the  only  ones  which  obtain  favour  in  their  eyes  are  the  sewing,  and 
the  washing  and  wringing  machines.  Where  these  are  possessed  (with  the 
ground  for  drying)  it  is  far  better  to  wash  at  home.  The  family  are  safer 
from  infection  of  all  kinds,  and  it  is  decidedly  cheaper  and  pleasanter. 

We  give  for  home  washing  some  few  receipts,  which  may  be  found 
useful. 

Clothes  should  be  well  aired  before  they  are  sent  up  from  the  laundry, 
and  sorted  into  sets  according  to  their  marks. 


To   Wash  Clothes. — To  Bleach  Linen,  etc. 


343 


To  Wash  Clothes. 

Half  a  pound  of  yellow  soap,  I  lb.  of 
soda,  |-  lb.  of  lime,  to  three  quarts  of 
boiling  water  ;  let  the  lime^and  water 
remain  all  night ;  boil  the  soda  and 
soap  to  a  paste  in  three  pints  of  clean 
water ;  when  boiling,  put  the  lime 
water  to  it.  Soak  the  clothes  and 
towels  over  night ;  wring  them  out 
and  put  them  into  the  boiler  with 
from  half  to  one  pound  of  soap  ;  boil 
twenty  minutes,  then  rinse  them  out. 

To  Bleach  Linen. 

Pour  over  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
chloride  of  lime  one  gallon  of  boiling 
water.  Let  it  stand  two  days,  stir- 
ring it  occasionally ;  then  pour  it 
clear  off,  and  bottle  it  for  use.  When 
required,  add  half  a  pint  to  a  quart 
or  three  pints  of  cold  spring  water. 
Wash  your  clothes  well,  and  rinse  it 
from  the  soap  ;  then  put  it  into  the 
above,  and  let  it  steep  for  a  few  hours ; 
pass  it  through  clean  water,  and  you 
will  find  the  colour  much  improved. 

Borax  used  in  Washing. 

Quarter  of  a  pound  of  refined 
borax  to  five  gallons  of  water  ;  pow- 
der the  borax  ;  dissolve  it  in  boiling 
water  in  the  above  proportion,  and 
use.  It  is  an  excellent  bleacher,  and 
may  be  used  for  the  most  delicate 
laces  even ;  it  also  saves  soap. 

A  little  pipeclay  dissolved  in  the 
hot  water  cleans  very  dirty  linen  with 
half  the  soap  required  without  it. 

To  Remove  Ironmoulds. 

Wet  the  spot ;  lay  it  over  a  hot 
water  plate,  or  strain  it  over  a  basin 
with  hot  water  in  it ;  put  a  little  salts 
of  lemon  on  the  spot ;  wash  it  as 
soon  as  the  spot  is  removed. 

To  take  out  Mildew. 

Mix  soft-soap,  powdered    starch, 
half  as  much  salt,  and  the  juice  of  a  | 
lemon.   Paint  both  sides  of  the  linen  ! 


with  a  brush  ;  put  it  out  on  the  grass 
till  the  stain  comes  out. 

Clothes  Lines. 

Gutta-percha  clothes  lines  are 
stronger  and  much  more  durable 
than  common  cord.  They  can,  more- 
over, be  cleaned,  and  are  not  affected 
by  wet.  When  the  clothes  line  is 
done  with,  a  little  hot  water  will  con- 
vert the  material  into  a  soap-bowl. 

To  Eemove  Wine-stains  from  Linen. 

Hold  them  in  milk  that  is  boiling 
on  the  fire,  and  they  will  soon  dis~ 
appear. 

To  Clean  White  Veils. 

Make  a  solution  of  white  soap ; 
let  the  veil  simmer  in  it  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  ;  squeeze  in  warm  water 
and  soap  till  it  is  clean  ;  rinse  it  in 
cold  water,  in  which  put  a  drop  of 
blue  water. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  starch  ;  run  the  veil  through 
this,  and  clear  by  clapping  it.  Pin 
it  out  on  a  cloth  or  a  cushion,  very 
evenly,  by  the  edges  to  dry. 

To  Remove  Stains  made  by  Acids. 

Wet  the  spots  and  lay  on  them 
some  salt  of  sorrel,  rub  it,  but  do 
not  wet  it  again.  Then  wash  it 
out. 

(See  also  Linen  Closet.) 

To  Wash  Coloured  Prints,  Cretonnes,  etc. 

Put  a  little  bran  into  lukewarm 
water  ;  wash  quickly  through ;  rinse 
in  cold  water  also  quickly.  Hang 
to  dry  in  a  room  without  fire  or 
sunshine.  Iron  with  not  too  hot  an 
iron.     Use  no  soap. 

The  colour  of  mauve  or  violet 
may  be  preserved  by  putting  a  little 
soda  in  the  water.  Green  can  be 
kept  by  putting  alum  in  the  water  ; 
ox-gall  also  preserves  the  colours. 
But  if  coloured  prints  continue  wet 
too    long,    nothing    can    save    the 


44 


Fuel. 


colours  from  running.  They  must 
be  done  quickly  and  not  let  lie  in 
the  water. 

To  Render  Muslin,  Lace,  and  Net 
Incombustible. 

Mix  with  the  starch  half  its  weight 
of  whiting.  It  answers  also  for 
lace  flounces. 

Or: — Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of 
sal-ammoniac  in  the  rinsing  water. 

Alum  also  answers  the  purpose. 

Substitute  for  Soap. 

The  sawdust  of  pine  and  fir  trees 
will  do  quite  as  well  as  soap  for 
washing  coarse  linen. 

To  render  Muslins  Uninflammable. 

Tungstate  of  soda,  prepared  ex- 
pressly for  rendering  fabrics  non- 
inflammable,  can  be  obtained  by 
order,  of  any  chemist  for  about  is. 
per  pound.  Directions  for  use  :  To 
three  parts  of  dry  starch  add  one 
part  of  tungstate  of  soda,  and  use 
the  starch  in  the  ordinary  way.  If 
the  material  does  not  require  starch- 
ing, mix  in  the  proportions  of  one 


pound  of  tungstate  of  soda  to  two 
gallons  of  water ;  well  saturate  the 
fabric  with  this  solution,  and  dry  it. 
The  heat  of  the  iron  in  no  way 
affects  the  non-inflammability.  Or, 
dip  in  a  solution  of  chloride  of  zinc. 

"Washing  Blonde. 

For  Blonde  use  fine  soap,  very 
slightly  ;  wash  it  gently  in  water  in 
which  a  little  stone  blue  is  dis- 
solved ;  when  clean,  dry  it  ;  then 
dip  it  in  thin  gum  water ;  dry  it 
again  in  linen,  and  iron  it  flat ;  if 
washed  finally  in  water  in  which  a 
lump  of  sugar  is  dissolved,  it  will 
have  the  face  of  new  blonde. 

To  Wash  Lace. 

Dissolve  some  salts  of  tartar  in 
hot  water.  Put  in  the  lace,  and  let 
it  remain  to  soak  for  about  half  an 
hour.  Then  take  it  out  of  the  water, 
and  squeeze  it  dry. 

The  salts  of  tartar  must  be  used 
when  bought  to  prevent  them  melt- 
ing away. 

Blonde  net  or  tulle  may  be  washed 
in  the  same  manner. 


FUEL. 

COALS— COKE— WOOD— CHARCOAL. 


Coal  is  composed  of  carbon,  hydrogen,  oxygen,  nitrogen,  and  sulphur, 
besides  the  mineral  substances  which  remain  in  the  ash. 

Wood  contains  the  same  elements,  with  the  exception  of  sulphur  and 
nitrogen. 

Newcastle  coal  is  considered  the  best,  as  it  burns  without  making  any 
dust  and  leaves  very  little  residue  ;  but  it  requires  to  be  stirred  often,  or 
it  cakes  and  goes  out. 

Silkstone  is  a  good  burner  with  a  very  little  ash. 

Brooch  coal  burns  very  brilliantly,  and  leaves  almost  no  ash.  It  will 
burn  to  the  last  fragment.  It  is  considered,  from  its  rapid  combustion, 
a  very  expensive  coal. 

Anthracite  is  fit  only  for  hall  stoves. 

The  very  cheap  coal  lately  sold  in  London  at  17s.  per  ton  is  of  use 
only  in  the  kitchen,  as  it  makes  so  much  dust  that  it  quite  destroys  the 
furniture. 

Coal  contains  a  certain  amount  of  water,  some  more,  some  less  ;  it  is 
therefore  most  economical  to  buy  it  in  the  hot  dry  weather,  when  the 


Matches.  345 


water  having  exuded,  the  weight  will  be  that  of  coal,  not  coal  and  water. 
Moreover,  coal  is  sold  much  more  cheaply  in  the  summer  than  in  the 
winter,  the  demand  for  it  being  less. 

The  price  varies  with  the  seasons  and  the  locality. 

Wood  makes  a  cheerful,  clean,  and  pleasant  fire,  but  it  is  seldom — we 
may  say  never— burnt  alone  in  our  country.  It  heats  ovens  better  than 
any  other  fuel.  Joined  to  coal  it  makes  the  best  fire  imaginable,  and 
we  believe  (in  contradiction  to  the  received  opinion)  that  good  hard 
chumps  of  wood  save  the  coals.  Fir  apples,  or  the  cones  of  the  fir  tree, 
make  a  wonderfully  bright  and  pretty  fire,  added  to  the  coals. 

Coke  is  a  preparation  of  coal,  or,  rather,  the  refuse  of  coal  when  gas 
has  been  extracted  from  it.  It  burns  clearly  and  without  a  flame  and 
gives  out  a  great  heat,  and  saves  coal  when  broken  into  very  small  pieces 
and  added  to  the  fire.  It  can  be  used  by  itself  in  close  stoves,  but  will 
not  burn  alone  in  an  open  grate.  It  is  of  use  in  the  kitchen  grate  from 
its  power  of  heat  when  in  a  thorough  state  of  combustion.  In  the 
drawing  room  it  is  objected  to  on  account  of  its  peculiar  vapoury  smell  ; 
still,  for  people  of  small  means,  it  is  a  saving.  Packing  the  cinders  at 
the  back  of  the  grate  and  putting  on  small  coal,  slightly  moistened,  also 
economizes  coal.     A  ton  of  coals  should  make  one  fire  for  seven  weeks. 

Charcoal  is  wood  burnt  to  mere  carbon,  the  hydrogen  and  oxygen 
having  been  expelled  from  it.  It  is  used  only  in  stoves  for  the  more 
delicate  kinds  of  cooking.  It  should  never  be  burned  in  bedrooms,  as  it 
gives  off  nearly  pure  carbonic  acid  gas,  which  is  a  deadly  poison,  and 
which  causes  drowsiness,  lethargy,  and  death. 

Cooking  by  gas  is  considered  economical. 

Wood  for  lighting  fires  is  sold  in  bundles.  A  bundle  used  with  skill 
will  light  three  fires.  Wheels  made  of  resined  wood  are  sold  for  the  same 
purpose  at  \d.  each,  and  ignite  very  rapidly  ;  but  this  fact  renders  them 
dangerous  to  keep  in  the  house,  for  fear  of  their  igniting  by  accident. 

Matches. 

But  little  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  century  ago  every  housewife  saved 
her  linen  rags  to  make  tinder  ;  now  they  are  saved  to  make  paper. 
Brimstone-tipped  matches  sold  in  a  bunch,  but  spread  out  like  a  fan, 
were  at  that  time  sold  in  the  streets  by  poor  match-girls,  a  class  as 
peculiar  then  as  the  boys  with  their  "  box  o'  lights"  are  now.  What  a 
change  has  the  lucifer  produced !  The  trouble  of  getting  a  light  years 
ago  can  only  be  well  understood  by  those  who  then  used  flint  and  steel. 
At  length  the  great  discoveries  of  Sir  Humphry  Davy  in  chemistry 
became  known.  Phosphorus  became  of  commercial  importance  as  a 
light-bearer.  There  were  other  discoveries  of  great  use,  particularly  that 
of  chlorate  of  potash.  Phosphoric  matches  were  soon  reduced  in  price 
from  five  shillings  a  hundred  to  sixpence  for  the  same  quantity.  Finally, 
by  various  improvements  in  their  manufacture  they  were  reduced  to  their 
present  price.  It  was  in  1842  that  Mr.  Reuben  Partridge  obtained  his 
patent  for  making  splints,  without  which  only  half  progress  could  have 
been  made  in  the  cheap  manufacture  of  matches.  Kraft,  the  discoverer 
of  phosphorus,  travelled  through  Europe,  and  was  received  at  various 
courts  to  show  his  inventions.     Schrotter,  the  great  Austrian  chemist  of 


346  To  Extinguish  a  Fire. — To  Revive  a  Dull  Fire. 

Vienna,  discovered  in  1845  a  method  of  rendering  phosphorus  less  com- 
bustible than  it  is  in  its  ordinary  state,  yet  quite  as  efficient  as  a  source 
of  light.  To  this  discovery  we  owe  the  present  popular  matches  which 
light  only  on  the  box,  as  Bryant  and  May's  do. 

To  Extinguish  a  Fire* 

A  solution  of  5  ounces  of  ammonia  in  1  gallon  of  water  will  extinguish 
a  fire. 

To  Revive  a  Dull  Fire. 

Sprinkle  lightly  a  little  powdered  nitre  over  it. 


347 


THE   STABLE-YARD   AND 
OCCUPANTS. 


ITS 


Of  all  animals  destined  for  the  use  of  man  the  horse  is  the  most  useful 
and  profitable,  as  he  is  the  most  noble,  generous,  and  patient,  conducing 
most  to  our  profit,  pleasure,  and  sport,  notwithstanding  the  abuse,  ill- 
treatment,  and  overwork  to  which  he  is  subjected  by  the  thoughtless,  the 
ignorant,  and  cruel.  Thanks  to  the  Society  for  the  Prevention.of  Cruelty 
to  Animals,  and  the  highly  advanced  state  of  civilization  in  this  country, 
much  is  daily  being  done  to  better  and  improve  the  condition  of  the 
horse  and  of  all  other  animals  ;  still  very  much  remains  to  be  done.  It  is 
therefore  both  the  duty  and  interest  of  every  man  possessing  a  horse  to 
see  that  he  is  properly  stabled,  carefully  groomed,  fed,  and  shod,  and  that 
he  purchases  one  suitable  and  fitted  for  the  work  required  of  him. 

Stable. 

Every  one  will  prefer  to  have  the  stables  near  his  house,  if  not  on  his 
own  premises  ;  in  either  case,  if  they  are  already  built,  he  must  do  the 


Ground  Plan  of  a  Stable. 
A.  Drains. 


143 


Aspect. — Drain  age. 


best  he  can  with  them.  Old  buildings  are  for  the  most  part  very  defective, 
badly  drained,  and  badly  ventilated.  This  must  at  once  be  remedied,  and 
may  generally  be  done  at  a  moderate  expense,  which  will  be  amply  repaid 
by  the  improved  health  and  comfort  of  the  horses.  New  stables  are 
better,  but  they  also  frequently  require  alteration. 


Ground  Plan  of  a  Stable. 
A.  Drains. 

For  the  guidance  and  assistance  of  those  proposing  to  build  their  own 
stables,  subjoined  are  some  plain,  useful  remarks  on  the  building,  drain- 
ing, and  ventilating,  and  also  some  plans  for  the  arrangement  of  the 
stalls  and  boxes,  and  designs  for  stable  fittings,  selected  from  the  catalogue 
of  the  St.  Pancras  Iron  Works  Company,  where  fittings  and  articles  of 
stable  furniture  will  be  found,  both  for  quality  and  moderate  charges, 
equal  to  any  in  London.  These  plans  can  be  varied  and  enlarged  accord- 
ing to  circumstances. 


Aspect. 

When  about  to  build  a  stable,  the  first  consideration  will  naturally  be 
the  selection  cf  a  site.  We  need  not  insist  on  the  advantages  of  a 
southerly  aspect,  they  are  almost  self-evident.  The  stables  will  be  much 
more  cheerful,  and  much  warmer,  and  enable  the  groom  to  avail  himself 
of  every  gleam  of  sunshine  to  open  the  windows  and  thoroughly  ventilate 
the  interior. 

Unfortunately  it  is  not  alwrys  possible,  from  the  disposition  of  the 
ground  and  premises,  to  manage  this.  However,  let  it  be  borne  in  mind 
that  such  is  the  best,  the  west  the  next  best,  and  the  north-east  the  very 
worst. 

It  should  not  be  forgotten,  also,  that  a  thorough  drainage  is  one  of  the 
most  important  points,  and  every  natural  slope  of  the  land  should  be 
taken  advantage  of  in  this  respect. 


Drainage- -Sewers,  349 


Drainage. 

Having  settled  the  site  and  the  plans  of  the  stables,  to  which  we  will 
refer  further  on,  the  first  works  to  be  provided  for  will  be  the  drainage,  for 
these  will  have  to  be  carried  out  simultaneously  with  the  foundations. 
The  drains  will  be  of  two  sorts,  which  should  be  kept  as  far  away  from  one 
another  as  it  is  possible  to  manage, — first,  those  connected  with  the 
drainage  of  the  interior  of  the  stables  ;  second,  those  intended  to  carry 
away  the  surface  water  and  collect  the  rain-water  from  the  roofs,  &c. 

Sewers. 

There  are  four  conditions  which  are  to  be  regarded  as  indispensable  in 
the  construction  of  all  drains  from  all  buildings  whatsoever.  These  con- 
ditions are  : — Firstly,  that  the  entire  length  of  drain  is  to  be  constructed 
and  maintained  with  sufficient  declivity  towards  the  discharge  into  the  cess- 
pools to  enable  the  average  proportion  and  quantity  of  liquid  and  solid 
matters  committed  to  it  to  maintain  a  constant  and  iminterrupted  motion, 
so  that  stagnation  shall  never  occur.  Secondly,  that  the  entire  length  of 
the  drain  is  to  be  constructed  and  maintained  in  a  condition  of  complete 
impermeability,  so  that  no  portion  of  the  matters  put  into  it  shall 
accidentally  escape  from  it.  Thirdly,  that  the  head  of  the  drain  shall  be 
so  efficiently  trapped  that  no  gaseous  or  volatile  properties  or  products  can 
possibly  arise  from  its  contents.  And,  fourthly,  that  the  low  extremity  of 
the  drain  or  point  of  communication  with  the  cesspool  shall  be  so  completely 
and  durably  formed,  that  no  interruption  to  the  flow  of  the  drainage  or 
escape  shall  there  take  place,  and  that  no  facility  shall  be  offered  for  the 
upward  progress  of  the  sewage  in  case  of  the  cesspool  becoming  sur- 
charged. 

For  most  purposes  a  fall  of  two  and  a  half  inches  in  ten  feet  will  be 
sufficient,  and  the  drain  should  be  of  three  inch  glazed  stoneware  pipes 
(four  inches  for  w.c),  with  carefully  made  socket-joints  laid  in  the 
direction  of  the  current,  and  cemented.  For  the  head  of  the  drain  we 
would  recommend  the  bell-trapped  horse  pots,  which  are  to  be  had  at  all 
stable  furnishing  ironmongers,  taking  care  that  they  are  sufficiently  large 
and  of  good  strong  quality. 


The  cesspool  for  sewerage  should  be  well  away  from  the  tank  provided 
for  the  reception  of  the  rain-water,  and  well  puddled  with  clay  on  the 
outside  and  cemented  inside.  Precaution  should  also  be  further  taken 
that  all  sewage  drains  should  be  laid  below  the  rain-wrater  drains,  so  that 
in  case  of  any  accidental  defects  no  matter  will  by  any  possibility  taint 
the  water  supply.     (See  Plan  No.  I.) 


35° 


Rain-water  Drains. 


Plan  No.  I. 


Rain-water  Drains. 

These  will  subdivide  themselves  into  two,  those  laid  to  collect  the 
drainage  of  yard,  &c,  and  which  may  be  common  pipes  laid  dry,  and 
leading  to  an  ordinary  cesspool  made  of  bricks  laid  without  mortar,  where 
the  water  will  collect  and  gradually  lose  itself;  the  others  connected 
with  the  down  pipes  from  roofs  and  leading  to  a  rain-water  tank.  These 
should  be  laid  with  the  same  care  as  the  sewer  drains,  the  tank  con- 
structed in  the  same  way  with  an  overflow  pipe  to  lead  to  cesspool  just 
mentioned. 


Buildings — Materials — Plans. 


35i 


Buildings. 

Having  determined  upon  the  site  for  the  stables,  the  next  point  to  study 
will  be  the  general  arrangement  of  the  plan,  and  the  materials  for  construction. 

Materials. 

As  to  the  materials,  economy  will  dictate  that  preference  should  be 
given  to  those  supplied  by  the  immediate  neighbourhood  ;  and  we  should 
advise  that  where  a  professional  architect  is  not  employed,  the  builder  be 
required  to  make  a  drawing  and  a  specification  of  the  works  which  he 
will  perform  for  the  named  price.  Also,  that  all  the  requirements  should 
as  much  as  possible  be  foreseen,  so  that  afterwards  no  alterations  be  made 
in  the  building,  as  otherwise  it  will  be  impossible  to  determine  the  limit 
of  the  cost.  Should  the  estimated  price  come  to  a  higher  sum  than  was 
anticipated,  we  should  not  recommend  to  attempt  to  get  the  builder  to 
take  something  off  the  amount,  as  he  will  only  do  so  by  scamping  the 
work  ;  but  premising  that  he  is  a  respectable  and  well-recommended  man, 
we  should  advise  that  the  extent  of  the  building  be  reduced  in  preference 
to  the  quality  of  the  work.  Cheap  work  and  cheap  materials  are  always 
the  dearest  in  the  end. 

Plans. 

The  plan  of  the  building  will  vary  very  much  according  to  the  aspect. 


\           ,' 

\ 

' 

\     / 

\ 

^  /    \  /  1 

\    / 

\  I 

\  / 

\  / 

\/  1   \  /    1 

a 

q 

a 

A 

a                       D 

/'     ** 

/     ^ 

/       \ 

/   \ 

/  \      /  \    I 

V 

/ 

s 

i 

t"    v    "V     \| 

Plan  No.  2. 


HARNESS    ROOM. 


YARD. 


H 


35* 


Plans —  Ventilation. 


disposition  of  land  and  other  premises,  and 
other  local  circumstances.  These  should  be 
very  carefully  studied,  and  the  plans  well 
matured,  as  the  success  of  the  building  will 
greatly  depend  on  the  disposition  of  its  various 
parts.  We  will  lay  down  as  one  of  the  first 
principles,  that  no  stall  should  be  less  than 
six  feet  wide  by  ten  feet  long,  no  loose  box 
less  than  ten  feet  square,  and  no  stable  less 
than  ten  feet  high  from  floor  to  ceiling.  Pas- 
sage in  rear  of  stalls,  five  feet  wide. 

Such  arrangement  as  will  put  all  the 
horses'  heads  the  same  way,  with  the  light 
and  ventilation  behind  them,  will  be  the 
most  preferable,  as  enabling  the  doors  and 
windows  to  be  opened  without  placing  the 
horses  in  a  draught.     (See  Plan  No.  2.) 

The  doors  should  be  wide  and  high,   and 
hung  in  two  heights,  with  fanlight  over  (four    __ 
feet  by  seven  feet  at   least),  that  the  horses 
may  go  in  and  out  freely  without   a  chance  of 
knocking    themselves    about.     One     often    sees 
a  horse  hesitating  before  entering  a  stable  ;  and 
when  after  a  little   coaxing  he  is  persuaded  to 
come  on,  he  will  do  so  with   a  rush.     Such  a 
horse  has    no   doubt,   at    some    time    or    other, 
hurt  himself  when  passing  through  a  door  either 
too  narrow  or  too  low. 

The  light  should  be  full,  as  tending  greatly 
to  the  cheerfulness  of  the  interior.  It  is  also 
well  known  that  horses  who  work  in  darkness, 
such  as  those  in  the  mines,  eventually  become 
blind.  Their  sight,  therefore,  must  be  to  some 
extent  affected  by  the  quantity  of  light  which 
they  enjoy.  The  sashes  also  should  be  hung  on 
centres  in  their  height,  as  the  most  advantageous 
method  for  ventilation. 


Ventilation. 

To  complete  the  ventilation,  the  only  further 
requirements  will  be  an  opening  in  the  ceiling — 
not  immediately  over  the  horses,  but  in  the 
rear  over  the  passage,  fitted  with  an  orna- 
mental ventilating  grating,  to  be  shut  and  open 
at  will,  leading  to  an  air-flue  laid  between  the 
joists,  and  conducting  the  foul  air  from  the 
stables  to  the  outside  through  an  ornamental 
perforated  air  brick  or  iron  grating.     A  similar  ventilating  grating,  to 


Paving — Partitions. 


353 


regulate  the  admission  of  fresh  air,  will  only  be  necessary  where  the  doors 
and  windows  are  small,  and  fit  very  accurately. 

Paving. 

The  materials  for  paving  should  be  of  the  hardest  quality,  on  good 
sound  ballast  or  concrete  foundation.  Any  absorbent  materials  must  be 
rejected— first,  because  they  will  not  be  of  sufficient  durability  ;  and, 
secondly,  because  from  their  nature  they  will  retain  part  of  the  manure, 
and  the  stables  will  never  be  sweet.     The  paving  of  boxes  and  stalls 

should  be  laid  with  a 
regular  gentle  slope  to 
the  drain,  which  should 
always  be  in  the  centre. 
Irrespective  of  other 
advantages,  the  horses 
stand  on  the  level,  and 
take  their  rest  more  com- 
fortably. 

An  occasional  sprink- 
ling of  gypsum  (sulphate 
of  lime),  when  cleaning 
the  stables,  will  be  found 
to  act  as  a  great  purifier. 
Its  great  affinity  for  am- 
monia causes  it   to   ab- 
sorb a  great  quantity  of  the 
gases     generated     in     the 
stables,  which  will  thereby 
lose  all  their  offensive  smell, 
and  none  of  the  ammonia 
will  be  lost,  but  will  be  re- 
tained   in  a  condition  ser- 
viceable as  manure. 

Partitions. 

The  partition  for  stalls 

will   be    match-lined    both 

sides,  and  about   four  feet 

two  inches  high  in  rear,  with  a  ramp  and  rising  to  six  feet  two  inches 

towards   the  mangers  ;    with  iron  pillar  at  the  end  next  passage,  with 

rings  for  pillar  reins.     Sometimes  also  the  match-lining  will  be  carried 

A   A 


fife 

/■/ 

s 

* 

\ 
\ 

1 

- 

■ 

;:, 

1     !     i    1 

i     ■     ;     ; 

i    ;    .    ! 

i 

i 

'//, 

354 


Partitions. 


through  in  a  level  line,  and  the  ramp  formed  by  a  cast-iron  ornamental 
panel. 


For  loose  boxes  the  boarding  will  be  from  five  feet  to  about  five  feet 


four   inches  high  at  most,  with  a  two-foot    ornamental   iron   panelling 
over. 


Mangers. — Harness  Room. 


355 


Mangers. 

The  best  mangers  are  those  containing  hay-rack,  corn  manger,  and 
water-trough  in  one,  as  per  sketch  ;  and  we  more  specially  recommend 

that       preference 


should  be  given  to 
galvanized  iron. 

The  wall  over 
the  manger  should 
be  match-boarded 
to  the  height  of 
partitions,  and 
lined  with  iron 
hoop  bands,  sheet 
zinc  over  the  joints 
of  match-lining,  or 
enamelled  tiles,  to 
prevent  horses  biting  at  it  when 
being  cleaned. 

The  manger  will  have  two  rings 
for  halter  reins,  and  a  ring  and  gal- 
vanized chain  fitted  in  wall  over 
same. 

Harness  Boom. 

This  should  be  at  least  ten  feet 
square,  and  have  in  it  a  fireplace 
fitted  with  range  with  boiler  attach- 
ed. A  handy  supply  of  hot  water 
will  be  found  most  advantageous 
in  the  management  of  the  stables, 
and  we  need  not  point  out  the  necessity  of  a  fire  for  drying  the  rugs, 
horse-cloths,  saddles,  harness,  &c,  in  winter  time. 

This  room  should  be  fitted  with  convenient  hooks  and  brackets  for  the 

A    A     2 


35^  Coach- House— Hay  Loft  and  Corn  Chamber—Stable  Utensils. 

hanging  and  cleaning  of  harness.     These  are  of  all  sorts  of  designs,  in 
which  individual  taste  will  be  the  best  guide. 

Coach-House. 

In  the  arrangement  of  the  coach-house  care  should  be  taken  that  it 
be  so  situated  that  it  have  a  long  front  to  the  yard,  so  that  the  carriages 
may  be  housed  side  by  side,  and  not  one  behind  the  other  ;  each  carriage 
to  have  its  doors,  so  that  any  particular  carriage  can  be  run  in  or  run  out 
without  disturbing  any  of  the  others.  When  this  is  not  practicable,  the 
coach-house  must  be  of  sufficient  depth  to  allow  of  two  carriages  standing 
one  behind  the  other,  with  a  space  of  at  least  eighteen  inches  between 
them. 

Hay  Loft  and  Corn  Chamber. 

In  most  stables,  in  addition  to  the  coachman's  rooms,  there  is  a  corn 
chamber  and  hay-loft  over  the  stable.  The  former  is  generally  boarded 
off,  lined  all  round  with  sheets  of  zinc  or  tin  to  keep  out  the  vermin,  and 
the  door  is  provided  with  a  lock,  of  which  the  coachman  keeps  the  key, 
and  gives  out  at  stated  times  the  corn  for  so  many  horses  for  so  many 
days.  By  this  means  he  keeps  a  check  upon  the  consumption,  and  pre- 
vents waste  and  pilfering  ;  both  of  which  are  more  likely  to  occur  when 
the  supply  is  unlimited  and  easy  of  access.  When  there  is  not  a  regular 
corn  chamber,  one  must  either  be  made  or  a  large  bin  provided,  and  the 
oats  brought  from  the  corn  chandler  as  required,  in  quantities  of  two  or 
three  quarters  at  a  time,  as  many  as  the  bin  will  contain,  which  will  be 
found  a  more  expensive  proceeding.  Hay,  from  being  bulky,  is  almost 
invariably  stowed  away  in  the  loft,  which  should  hold  at  least  half  a  load  ; 
it  must  be  stored  away  carefully,  and  nothing  allowed  to  run  about  or 
play  on  it.  Hay  will  keep  good  and  sweet  for  some  time,  if  in  a  dry  place 
and  not  meddled  with.  If  the  loft  be  large  enough  it  will  be  found  better 
and  cheaper  to  buy  a  load  at  a  time  ;  if  not,  or  the  loft  be  damp,  a  smaller 
quantity  must  suffice. 

Stable  Utensils. 

Under  this  head  is  included  all  that  is  used  in  dressing  the  horse,  and 
in  cleansing  the  yard  and  stable. 

The  pitchfork  is  used  to  shake  up  the  straw,  of  which  the  horses'  bed  is 
made  ;  to  remove  all  that  becomes  soiled  and  dirty  ;  and,  in  general,  to 
set  it  fair  and  straight.  The  handle  should  be  kept  clean,  and  the  prongs 
bright.     Price  is. 

The  shovel  removes  the  smaller  particles,  and  the  scrapings  of  the 
stable  yard.     Price  2s.  6a7. 

The  besom  or  broom  is  used  to  sweep  out  the  stable  after  the  damp 
soiled  litter  has  been  removed,  and  to  keep  the  yard  neat  and  clean. 
Those  made  of  birch  are  the  best,  and  are  bought  at  about  gs.  a  dozen, 
according  to  the  quality  and  locality. 

A  manure  basket  to  take  up  the  droppings.  This  should  be  done  before 
trodden  about,  to  keep  the  straw  clean,  and  the  stable  sweet.     Price  2s. 

The  stable  pail  should  be  made  of  strong  oak,  bound  with  iron,  and 
neatly  painted.     Cost,  from  5.9.  to  6s.  each. 

A  sieve,  to  cleanse  the  oats  and  chaff  of  all  dust  and  small  stones. 
Price  2s.  6d> 


Clothing,  &*c.  357 


A  quartern  and  a  half-quartern  measure  to  measure  out  the  oats, 
beans,  chaff,  &c.  for  each  horse's  feed.     About  is.  6d.  each. 

The  currycomb. — Horses  of  the  present  day  are  so  much  better  bred 
than  formerly,  consequently  their  coats  and  skin  are  so  much  finer,  there 
is  now  much  less  use  for  the  currycomb,  except  to  remove  the  dust  from 
the  body  brush.  On  very  rough-coated  horses  it  may  occasionally  be 
used,  but  no  other  should  ever  be  touched  with  it.  In  summer  it  is  abso- 
lutely unnecessary,  and  in  these  days  of  clipping  and  singeing,  in  the 
winter  it  is  almost  equally  so.  It  must  always  be  used  lightly,  or  it  will 
severely  punish  the  horse,  and  on  no  account  should  the  teeth  be  sharp, 
or  more  than  the  eighth  of  an  inch  in  length.     Price  i  s.  6d. 

The  body  brush,  or  horse  brush  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  is,  in  the 
hands  of  a  good  groom,  the  most  useful  implement  used  in  dressing  the 
horse,  as  it  thoroughly  removes  all  dust  and  dirt,  stimulates  the  skin,  and 
imparts  a  gloss  to  the  coat.     Cost,  about  5s. 

The  water  brush  is  to  wash  all  dirt  and  mud  from  the  feet  and  legs  of 
the  horse,  and  stains  from  his  quarters,  &c.     Price  4s. 

The  mane  comb,  as  the  name  implies,  is  to  comb  the  mane  and  tail. 
It  should  be  made  of  horn,  have  large  teeth,  and  be  used  carefully  and 
only  occasionally,  as  in  a  general  way  a  good  brushing  will  answer  the 
purpose  without  pulling  out  the  hair.     Cost,  is. 

Tlie  picker  is  a  blunt  iron  hook  for  removing  the  grit  and  stones 
from  the  horse's  feet.  Some  are  made  to  fold  up  for  the  pocket.  A  good, 
careful  groom  will  always  carry  one  of  these.     Price  is.  6d. 

A  sponge,  too,  is  always  necessaiy  to  dry  the  legs,  &c,  after  washing, 
and  for  other  purposes  of  cleanliness.  Price  varies  according  to  place 
and  quality. 

Leathers  and  rubbers  are  also  indispensable  for  drying  the  horse  after 
work,  and  wiping  him  over  after  dressing. 

An  oil-brush  and  tin  to  hold  the  oil,  and  to  rub  round  the  hoofs  before 
leaving  the  stable  to  go  to  work. 

A  wooden  box  for  holding  the  stopping.     Price  2s. 

A  singeing  lamp  and  a  pair  of  trimming  scissors  are  also  necessary. 
Price  of  former  about  10s.,  and  of  the  latter  $s. 

To  avoid  loss  and  confusion,  there  should  be  a  place  for  everything, 
and  everything  in  its  place,  and  all  the  utensils  should  be  kept  bright  and 
clean. 

Clothing,  &c. 

Every  horse  standing  in  a  stable  must  have  a  head  collar  with  two 
reins  long  enough  to  go  through  the  two  rings  fastened  to  the  manger, 
and  to  reach  the  ground  after  being  each  attached  to  a  weight  or  block 
made  of  hard  wood  or  iron  heavy  enough  to  keep  the  reins  from  twisting 
or  curling  up,  but  not  so  heavy  as  to  be  a  weight  or  strain  upon  the  horse's 
head  as  he  moves  it.  When  in  a  box,  too,  a  head  collar  is  always  handy 
on  the  quietest  horse ;  on  a  tricky  or  unruly  animal  it  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary, as  he  can  then  be  at  any  time  easily  secured  without  risk  or  trouble. 

Halters. — Two  good  web-headed  hempen  halters  are  also  requisite  in 
every  stable,  to  lead  the  horse  about  without  having  to  use  the  head 
collar. 

Clothing. — There  is  a  great  variety  of  clothing,  from  the  comparatively 


35  8  Advice  as  to  how  to  Purchase  a  Horse. 

inexpensive  to  the  most  expensive  in  make  and  finish.  These  consist  of 
blankets  or  rugs  of  different  degrees  of  warmth  and  thickness  according 
to  the  time  of  year,  a  roller,  a  suit  of  body  clothing,  and  a  set  of  flannel 
bandages.  The  best  material  will  be  the  cheapest  in  the  end,  as  wearing 
so  much  longer  than  the  cheaper  kinds. 

The  blanket  or  rug  should  be  cut  back  at  the  top  of  the  shoulder,  with 
a  projecting  piece  on  each  side  coming  round  and  meeting  in  the  centre 
of  the  chest,  where  they  fasten  with  a  buckle  and  strap.  Each  rug,  too, 
should  be  bound  with  some  strong  material  to  prevent  the  edges  tearing 
out.     Two  rugs  will  be  found  necessary  for  each  horse. 

A  suit  of  body  clothing  may  be  made  of  various  materials,  but  strong 
warm  serge  is  best  for  winter,  and  a  lighter  kind  for  summer  wear.  It 
consists  of  a  quarter-piece,  hood  and  breast-piece,  with  roller  to  match. 
The  roller  must  be  well  padded,  to  prevent  bruising  or  injury  to  the  back 
from  pressure. 

In  winter,  in  a  warm  stable,  a  heavy  rug  and  the  body  clothing  will  be 
found  sufficient  during  the  day,  but  at  night  the  latter  should  be  removed 
to  keep  it  clean,  and  another  rug  substituted. 

The  flaii7iel  bandages  are  put  on  after  the  horse  has  had  his  legs  washed, 
to  keep  them  dry  and  warm.  They  are  also  of  great  service  in  illness,  to 
keep  up  the  circulation  and  warmth  in  the  extremities.  In  hunting 
stables,  where  the  horses  must  be  occasionally  sweated,  it  will  be  necessary 
to  have  two  or  three  spare  rugs  and  hoods  in  use  for  that  purpose,  and 
which  should  be  carefully  washed  and  dried.  The  price  of  clothing 
varies  so  much  according  to  the  quality  and  finish,  it  is  difficult  to 
name  any,  but  a  respectable  saddler  will  at  any  time  give  an  estimate  for 
the  kind  required. 

ADVICE  AS  TO  HOW  TO  PURCHASE  A  HORSE. 

To  the  inexperienced  the  purchase  of  a  horse  is  a  matter  of  some 
little  difficulty  and  risk,  and  the  object  of  this  treatise  is  to  throw  out 
some  few  hints  to  enable  the  intending  purchaser  to  ascertain  first  what 
sort  of  horse  he  requires  (not  always  an  easy  task),  then  the  best  and 
safest  way  to  buy  him,  and  the  best  and  most  economical  way  to  preserve 
'  him  in  health  and  condition  to  perform  the  duties  required  of  him. 

And  first  I  must  caution  all  purchasers  against  a  very  common  fault- 
that  of  wanting,  and  expecting  to  find  perfection  in  any  horse  ;  there  is  no 
such  thing  either  in  man  or  horse  ;  all  that  can  be  done  is  to  select  one  as 
nearly  as  possible  approaching  the  standard  required.  As  in  everything, 
"  a  little  knowledge  is  a  dangerous  thing  ;';  it  is  particularly  so  in  all 
relating  to  the  purchase  and  management  of  the  horse.  The  inexperienced 
purchaser  should  therefore  place  himself  either  in  the  hands  of  an  expe- 
rienced friend,  or  respectable  dealer,  and  unless  he  knows  something  of  an 
animal  previously,  be  very  cautious  in  purchasing  at  the  sales  by  auction, 
or  from  advertisements,  however  flatteringly  described,  and  seemingly  fair 
in  allowing  trials  &c.  The  great  demand  for  horses,  both  at  home  and 
abroad,  during  the  last  few  years  has  raised  the  price  at  least  fifty  per 
cent.,  and  in  some  classes  to  even  more  than  that. 

There  are  several  highly  respectable  dealers  in  London,  and  generally 
one  at  least  in  most  large  towns  in  the  country,  to  whom  an  intending 


Advice  as  to  how  to  Purchase  a  Horse.  359 


purchaser  may  apply,  and  who,  on  his  stating  the  sort  of  horse  he  re- 
quires, and  the '  purpose  for  which  he  requires  him,  will  show  him  some 
from  which  he  may  make  a  selection, — the  dealer  guaranteeing  the 
horses  to  be  sound  and  quiet  to  ride  or  drive,  &c.  As  so  much  difference 
of  opinion  exists  as  to  what  constitutes  soundness  or  unsoundness  in 
horses,  most  dealers  of  the  present  day  decline  to  warrant  any  horse  sound, 
but  allow  the  purchaser  to  have  him  examined  by  any  veterinary  surgeon 
he  may  select,  whose  certificate  that  he  is  sound  at  the  time  of  purchase 
exonerates  the  dealer  from  all  responsibility  in  that  respect.  Most  horses 
purchased  out  of  a  dealer's  stable  are  fat  and  short  of  work,  and  at  first 
care  is  requisite  that  they  be  used  carefully  and  steadily,  and  brought  to 
work  by  degrees,  or  illness  may  probably  result  to  the  horse  and  dis- 
appointment to  the  owner  ;  the  dealer  not  unfrequently  getting  the  blame 
for  what  arises,  not  from  any  fault  of  his,  but  from  a  want  of  knowledge 
or  care  on  the  part  of  the  owner  in  too  soon  putting  him  to  work  for  which 
he  was  not  yet  fit,  and  the  ill  effects  of  which  a  little  care,  a  few  days' 
patience,  and  a  mild  dose  of  physic  would  have  prevented. 

In  his  choice  of  a  horse  the  purchaser  will  of  course  be  guided  by 
whether  he  wants  one  for  riding  or  driving  purposes  ;  if  for  the  former  he 
will  be  particular  that  the  shoulder  lies  well  back,  and  if  strong,  not  loaded 
at  the  top  or  points — that  he  has  a  good  back,  deep  body,  clean,  flat,  wiry- 
looking  legs,  and  free  from  large  splints,  curbs,  spavins,  &c.  ;  that  his  feet 
are  firm  and  of  moderate  size — neither  large  and  flat,  and  therefore  neces- 
sarily weak,  nor  strong  and  narrow  like  those  of  a  mule.  When  a  horse 
has  natural  feet  of  the  latter  description  they  are  generally  remarkably 
sound,  and  will  stand  a  great  deal  of  work  ;  but,  as  a  rule,  that  shape  is 
produced  by  internal  disease,  rendering  the  horse  unsound  when  put  to 
work. 

If  for  driving  purposes,  he  need  not  be  so  particular  about  the 
shoulders  ;  for  harness  they  may  be  stronger,  heavier,  and  more  upright, 
as  many  make  capital  harness  horses  that  are,  from  their  formation,  very 
uncomfortable  to  ride. 

Having  met  with  one  suitable  for  his  purpose,  the  purchaser  must  not 
let  a  few  pounds  prevent  him  buying  him,  if  rather  more  than  the  price  to 
which  he  had  proposed  to  go.  For  instance,  an  intending  purchaser 
limits  himself  to  price,  say  jot. ;  he  sees  one  the  very  thing  he  wants  for  a 
few  pounds  more,  but  declines  to  go  beyond  his  fixed  price.  He  even- 
tually buys  one  he  thinks  may  suit  at  about  his  price  ;  after  a  time,  finding 
he  will  not  do,  he  changes  him  away  for  another  as  unlikely  to  suit  him, 
paying  10/.  or  15/.  more,  simply  to  get  rid  of  the  first.  This  again  is 
changed  away  in  his  turn,  and  so  on,  till  at  last  he  finds  himself  still 
unsuited,  with  one,  that  altogether,  after  the  different  changes  and  pay- 
ments, costs  him  nearly  double  the  price  of  that  he  declined  at  first  as 
being  beyond  his  figure. 

Horses  are  for  the  most  part  unfit  for  the  London  market,  and  for 
general  use,  till  they  are  at  least  five  years  old  ;  but  a  dealer  will  occasion- 
ally buy  a  good  one  at  four  years  old,  if  at  a  corresponding  price.  Some 
men,  and  often  young  men,  fond  of  riding,  cannot  afford  to  give  a  high 
price  for  a  horse  for  their  own  use.  He  has  either  to  put  up  with  an 
unsound  or  a  blemished  one.  But  if  his  work  is  not  hard,  and  he  is  a  pretty 
fair  horseman,  he  would  find  it  advantageous  to  buy  a  good  four-years  old 


360  The  Hack,  or  Riding  Horse — The  Ladies'  Horse, 

and  use  him  gently  for  a  year,  when,  if  all  went  well,  he  would  have  a 
good  horse  at  a  cheaper  rate.  A  man  must  understand  something  about 
horses  and  their  management  to  do  this  to  advantage. 

The  Hack,  or  Hiding  Horse. 

In  selecting  a  riding  horse  much  must  depend  upon  the  size  and 
weight  of  the  rider.  The  best  and  most  useful  size  is  from  I5hds.  to 
I5hds.  2in.  The  most  fashionable  colours  are  bay,  brown,  and  dark 
chestnut.  A  really  good  riding  horse,  with  good  action  and  fine  manners, 
is  very  difficult  to  find,  as  he  must  be  good-looking,  well-made,  sound, 
and  temperate,  with  breeding  substance,  action,  and  courage.  His  head 
should  be  lean,  the  eye  bold  and  prominent,  the  muzzle  small,  with  large 
nostrils.  The  neck  should  be  good  and  slightly  arched  to  bend  to  the 
bridle,  shoulders  lie  well  back  and  strong,  but  not  heavy  and  loaded  at 
the  points,  the  body  deep  and  round,  strong  back  and  loin,  with  good 
deep  quarters  and  good  firm  legs  and  feet.  He  must  ride  lightly  in  hand, 
walk  pleasantly  and  safely,  trot  freely,  with  good  action,  and  canter  easily, 
yielding  to  the  bit  without  pulling.  He  must  carry  the  saddle  well  back 
behind  the  shoulders  ;  nothing  is  so  uncomfortable  or  looks  so  badly  in 
any  description  of  riding  horse  as  sitting  on  the  top  of  the  shoulders 
instead  of  behind  them.  The  price  will  vary  according  to  his  action, 
manners,  and  appearance,  as  well  as  the  weight  he  can  carry.  From  35/. 
or  40/.  for  the  light  blood  hack  with  low  action,  to  70/.  or  80/.  for  good 
useful  sorts,  and  up  to  150/.  to  200/.,  or  even  more,  for  first-class  horses 
of  great  style  and  manners,  with  very  grand  action.  Many  horses  of  this 
class  are  very  fast,  and  can  trot  up  to  twelve  and  fourteen  miles  an  hour; 
but  if  they  do  seven  or  eight  miles  pleasantly  and  well,  they  will  be  fast 
enough,  as  few  men  care  to  ride  faster. 

The  great  defects  to  be  avoided  in  purchasing  a  riding  horse  are  a 
loose  weak  neck — horses  so  formed  invariably  getting  their  heads  up,  and 
being  very  uncomfortable  to  ride  ;  low  upright  shoulders  ;  and  twisted 
fore  legs — rendering  the  horse  liable  to  hit  either  the  inside  of  the  knee 
or  fetlock  joint,  which  is  very  dangerous  and  likely  to  cause  him  to  fall. 
A  shy,  nervous  horse,  too,  should  be  avoided,  as  well  as  a  hot,  irritable  one. 
Horses  of  a  light  chestnut  colour  are  very  often  so,  and  in  company  will 
not  settle  into  any  pace.  Ten  miles  is  a  fair  average  day's  work.  The 
expense  of  keep,  shoeing,  &c,  will  average  30^.  a  week  for  one,  but  where 
two  or  more  are  kept  it  will  decrease  in  proportion. 

The  Ladies'  Horse. 

A  perfect  ladies'  horse  is  of  all  descriptions  the  most  difficult  to  find. 
So  many  good  qualities,  which,  though  desirable  in  all  riding  horses, 
may  be  overlooked  in  those  for  men,  are  here  absolutely  essential.  Fine 
temper  and  courage,  a  light  level  mouth,  and  fine  manners,  are  indispen- 
sable. He  should  be  from  i5hds.  to  I5hds.  3m.  high,  with  a  good  head 
and  neck,  fine  oblique  shoulders,  rather  long  in  the  body,  with  a  good 
back  and  loin,  deep  strong  quarters,  firm  sound  legs  and  feet.  If  the 
hind  legs  are  rather  bent,  so  much  the  better ;  he  will  get  them  more 
under  him,  and  consequently  his  paces  will  be  easier — horses  with 
straight  hind  legs  invariably  pitching  most  unpleasantly  in  the  canter, 


The  Hunter. 


which  must  be  easy  and  elegant.  As  few  ladies  ride  more  than  from  ten 
to  eleven  stone,  including  a  nineteen  or  twenty-pound  saddle,  and  ease 
and  lightness  in  action  are  indispensable,  the  ladies'  horse  should  be  very 
nearly  thorough-bred,  if  not  quite  so.  He  must  walk  well  and  freely,  step 
lightly  but  sharply  in  the  trot,  with  a  rather  long  easy  canter.  He  must 
be  high  couraged  and  free,  but  at  the  same  time  docile  and  temperate. 
A  slow,  lazy  horse  is  as  objectionable  and  disagreeable  to  ride  as  a  hot, 
irritable  one.  The  latter  will  sometimes  go  quietly  and  temperately  in 
the  hands  of  a  lady,  though  irritable  and  fidgety  when  ridden  by  men, 
owing  to  the  easier,  lighter  pull  on  their  mouths.  From  the  position  of 
the  ladies'  seat  and  from  the  great  length  and  incumbrance  of  the  habit, 
it  follows  they  cannot  have  the  same  power  and  control  over  the  horse 
that  men  have,  and  accidents  to  them  are  more  likely  to  be  attended  with 
dangerous  results  ;  hence  greater  care  is  necessary  in  selecting  a  horse  for 
their  use  free  from  all  tricks,  nervousness,  and  vice. 

Many  are  called  good  ladies'  horses  that  have  no  other  recommenda- 
tion than  their  being  very  quiet,  which  with  very  many  will  cover  a  multi- 
tude of  faults. 

A  few  years  since  ladies  rode  no  pace  but  the  walk  and  canter,  but 
lately  the  trot  has  become  a  favourite  and  fashionable  pace  ;  consequently 
a  safe,  sharp,  easy  trot  is  now  essential  in  all  horses  to  carry  a  lady. 

The  ladies'  hunter  differs  in  some  respects  from  the  riding  horse  for 
the  road  or  park  ;  he  may  be  less  showy  and  stronger.  He  must  be 
eight  or  nine  years  old,  have  been  well  and  regularly  ridden  to  hounds  for 
at  least  two  or  three  seasons,  and  thoroughly  understand  his  business  ; 
not  less  than  I5hds.  2in.  or  more  than  i6hds.  high,  well  above  the  weight 
he  has  to  carry,  well-bred  and  fast,  but  thoroughly  quiet  and  temperate 
among  other  horses,  and  at  his  fences,  which  he  should  take  freely  and 
cleverly,  go  well  into  the  bridle  without  pulling,  and  turn  readily  with  a 
motion  of  the  hand. 

A  hot,  irritable,  fretful  brute,  or  one  with  a  weak,  loose  neck  is  uncom- 
fortable enough  for  a  man  to  ride,  but  it  is  absolutely  dangerous  to  allow 
any  lady  to  ride  such  a  one  on  the  road — to  say  nothing  of  riding  him  to 
hounds — however  good  he  may  be  represented  to  be. 

The  best  colours  for  ladies'  horses  are  bay,  brown,  dark  chestnut,  or 
black.  There  is  an  old  saying,  that  "  A  good  horse  cannot  be  a  bad 
colour ;"  and  though  no  purchaser  should  decline  to  buy  one  that  is  likely 
to  suit  him  on  account  of  colour,  those  I  have  named  are  to  be  preferred. 

The  price  of  horses  differs  so  greatly,  and  depends  so  much  on  their 
make,  style,  and  qualifications,  that  it  is  difficult  to  name  an  average  one  ; 
but  a  good  ladies'  horse,  either  for  the  road  or  the  field,  is  always  worth 
from  ioo/.  to  150/. 

The  Hunter. 

In  selecting  a  hunter  it  is  necessary  to  bear  in  mind  the  country  in 
which  he  is  to  be  ridden.  In  the  grass  countries  of  Leicestershire,  North- 
amptonshire, &c,  the  hunter  must  be  nearly  if  not  quite  thoroughbred : 
the  enclosures  being  large,  the  fences  strong,  and  the  scent  over  the  grass 
good,  nothing  but  blood  can  go  the  pace  and  keep  on  jumping.  The 
reason  is  this  :  when  going  with  hounds  the  thoroughbred  is  never  really 
extended,  but  is  always  going  within  himself,  while  the  half-bred  is  going 


The  Hunter. 


all  the  time  at  the  top  of  his  pace,  and  necessarily  becomes  much  sooner 
exhausted. 

In  a  close  country,  on  the  contrary,  the  half-bred  hunter  is  preferred. 
The  pace  is  not  so  fast,  and  the  horse  is  constantly  eased  by  being  pulled 
up  and  steadied  at  the  fences ;  for  it  is  a  well-known  fact  that  fences  stop 
hounds  more  than  they  do  horses.  In  countries  of  this  description,  as 
Essex,  Herts,  Surrey,  &c,  the  land  is  generally  ploughed,  wet,  and  heavy, 
the  enclosures  are  smaller,  and  the  fences  being  principally  bank  and 
ditch,  must  be  taken  steadily  and  carefully.  I  have  seen  some  quite 
common  half-bred  horses  go  remarkably  well  over  a  close  country  that 
could  not  live  for  five  minutes  over  the  grass  countries. 

The  points  essential  to  a  hunter  are  a  lean  head  and  neck,  well  set  on 
to  good  oblique  shoulders,  a  strong  back  and  loin,  wide  hips,  a  deep 
body  and  back  ribs,  good  muscular  quarters,  and  gaskins  well  let  down  to 
the  hocks,  and  clean,  firm  legs  and  feet.  He  must  be  temperate,  with 
plenty  of  courage,  and  have  a  good  mouth  and  manners.  His  size  will 
vary  from  I5hds.  iin.  to  i6hds.  2in.,  according  to  the  weight  he  has  to 
carry  and  the  description  of  country  he  has  to  cross.  From  I5hds. 
3in.  to  i6hds.  2in.  is  perhaps  the  best  size  for  the  flying  grass  countries, 
while  from  I5hds.  iin.  to  I5hds.  3m.  will  be  found  better  and  handier  for 
the  close  deep  country. 

The  Irish  hunter  is  very  much  improved  of  late  years.  From  the 
importation  into  Ireland  of  some  of  the  best-bred  English  stallions,  they 
have  lost  a  good  deal  of  the  mean  appearance  they  formerly  had,  are  better- 
bred,  and  better-looking,  with  deeper  and  longer  quarters.  The  Irish 
horse  had  generally  a  small  neat  head,  oblique  but  rather  weak  shoulders, 
short  back  ribs,  and  mean,  drooping  quarters — all  which  has  been  very 
much  improved,  and  some  very  first-class  horses  are  now  bred  in  Ireland. 
They  are  generally  very  clever,  particularly  good  timber-jumpers,  better 
adapted  perhaps  for  the  close  heavy  countries  than  the  grass.  When 
honest  and  good-tempered,  they  are  very  pleasant  to  ride,  but  from  often 
being  tricky  and  shifty  require  care  in  purchasing.  The  price  of  the 
hunter  depends  very  much  on  his  breed,  appearance,  manners,  and  ability. 
For  the  grass  countries  it  would  vary  from  100/.  to  300/.,  and  for  the 
close  plough  countries  from  80/.  to  200/. 

The  amount  of  work  that  may  be  fairly  expected  of  a  hunter  is  one 
day  a  week  with  staghounds  and  three  days  a  fortnight  with  foxhounds. 
From  being  particularly  liable  to  accidents  from  blows,  thorns,  over- 
reaches, &c,  it  will  generally  be  found  that  out  of  a  stud  of  four,  one  will 
be  "  hors  de  combat."  The  best  and  hardiest  colours  are  bay,  brown,  dark 
chestnut,  and  black.  Light  chestnuts  are  very  often  hot  and  irritable,  and 
also  bad  feeders  when  put  to  work.  Horses  with  short  back  ribs,  too,  are 
almost  invariably  bad  feeders. 

Hunters  go  in  all  forms,  but  a  loose,  weak  neck  and  twisted  fore-legs 
are  always  to  be  avoided.  The  former  is  the  most  dangerous  fault  a 
hunter  can  have  :  it  is  impossible  to  steady  him  at  his  fences  or  in  any 
way  interfere  with  his  mouth,  without  his  at  once  throwing  up  his  head  ; 
consequently  he  cannot  see  where  he  is  going,  and  serious  falls  are  the 
result.  With  twisted  fore-legs,  the  horse  is  liable  to  hit  and  cut  himself 
under  the  knee,  and  on  the  fetlock  joint,  resulting  in  lameness  and 
swelling,  even  if  he  do  not  fall. 


363 

The  Carriage  Horse, 

These  horses  are  bred  principally  in  Yorkshire  and  the  North  of  Eng- 
land, are  bought  there  by  the  principal  dealers  and  jobmasters  at  three 
and  four  years  old,  are  broken,  driven,  and  matched  by  them  for  some 
time  before  they  are  fit  for  the  carriages  of  the  nobility  and  gentry. 
Carriage  horses  are  always  either  bay  or  brown,  those  without  white  are 
preferred.  They  must  be  fully  i6hds.  high,  with  rather  long  rainbow 
neck,  strong  but  oblique  shoulders,  deep  round  body,  with  long  muscular 
quarters,  carrying  a  good  tail,  clean,  flat  legs,  and  good  firm  feet.  Being 
kept  more  for  show  than  work,  grand  stylish  appearance  and  action  are 
indispensable,  and  from  being  generally  loaded  with  flesh,  unless  the  feet 
and  legs  are  good,  they  will  soon  wear  out.  A  pair  of  well-matched 
carriage  horses,  with  style  and  grand  action,  will  fetch  a  long  price,  as 
much  as  600/.  or  700/.  being  sometimes  given. 

This  is  easily  accounted  for  if  we  bear  in  mind  the  great  expense, 
trouble,  time,  and  risk  that  are  involved  in  purchasing,  breaking,  and  per- 
fecting a  pair  of  horses  of  the  size  and  style  required.  In  fact,  so  great 
is  the  risk  and  so  many  the  disappointments,  that  many  do  not  buy  horses 
for  their  carriage,  but  prefer  hiring  them  of  a  respectable  jobmaster. 
But  in  this,  as  in  all  other  sorts  and  descriptions  of  horses,  there  are 
various  classes,  and  the  purchaser  can  suit  himself,  from  the  pair  of  good 
useful  average  horses,  at  about  270/.,  up  to  almost  any  price  for  first-rate 
style  and  action. 

The  great  defects  to  which  carriage  horses  are  liable,  from  their  size 
and  general  formation,  are — defect  of  the  wind,  either  roaring  or  whistling, 
horses  with  long  rainbow  necks  very  frequently  becoming  so  after  a  bad 
cold,  or  an  attack  of  influenza.  All  large  horses,  too,  are  more  or  less 
liable  to  their  wind  becoming  affected  after  illness.  Inflammation  of  the 
feet  is  another  common  complaint  with  horses  of  this  class.  Loaded 
with  flesh  to  improve  their  style  and  appearance,  and  with  high  action  in 
addition  to  their  weight,  two  great  causes  of  inflammatory  attacks,  they 
are  very  liable  to  this  complaint,  unless  great  care  is  taken  to  guard 
against  it.  Many  carriage  horses,  too,  have  flat  feet,  rendering  them 
doubly  liable  to  an  attack  of  this  description  ;  in  them  the  sole  of  the  foot 
will  sink,  becoming  convex  instead  of  concave.  When  such  is  the  case 
great  care  is  requisite  in  shoeing,  or  the  horse  will  not  beworkably  sound. 

Some  few  years  since  grey  was  the  most  fashionable  colour  for  car- 
riage horses,  now  bays  and  brown  have  quite  superseded  it  for  all  de- 
scriptions of  horses  ;  and  unless  he  is  very  first  rate,  a  grey  horse  is  almost 
universally  objected  to. 

In  hiring  or  jobbing  carriage  horses  the  price  per  month  varies 
according  to  the  time  of  year.  For  the  months  of  May,  June,  and  July, 
the  height  of  the  London  Season,  it  would  be  about  21/.  or  22/.  per  month 
for  a  pair  of  good-looking,  useful  horses.  For  the  rest  of  the  year  it  would 
vary  from  16/.  to  not  less  than  12/.  per  month,  according  to  the  time  of 
year  and  the  value  of  the  horses.  If  hired  by  the  year  the  price  would 
be  from  90/.  to  100/.  for  a  pair  of  horses,  and  60/.  for  a  single  horse,  The 
hirer  in  all  cases  to  provide  fodder,  &c,  and  to  pay  all  expenses,  as 
shoeing,  &c,  unless  a  separate  agreement  is  entered  into,  when  the  price 
will  be  proportionately  more. 


3^4         Horses  for  Light  and  Heavy  Harness — Cobs  and  Ponies. 


Horses  for  Light  Harness. 

In  this  class  may  be  included  horses  suitable  for  gigs,  T-carts,  light 
broughams,  dogcarts,  &c.  They  should  be  well-bred,  neck  rather  long 
and  arched,  with  good  back  and  quarters,  strong  oblique  shoulders,  carry 
a  good  head  and  tail,  and  be  of  a  generally  showy  and  stylish  appearance, 
with  high  grand  action.  Horses  of  this  description  are  more  fitted  for 
the  park  and  for  show  than  for  real  work,  and  command  high  prices. 

For  general  use  horses  of  a  more  common  description  will  be  preferred 
— less  showy,  and  with  less  action  ;  the  better  to  stand  the  wear  and  tear  of 
the  hard  roads,  and  must  be  selected  according  to  the  work  required  of 
them.  Many  of  them  are  very  fast,  and  can  trot  up  to  fifteen  or  sixteen 
miles  an  hour.  All  must  have  a  certain  amount  of  style  and  action  to 
render  them  safe  and  pleasant  to  drive  ;  but  as  a  rule,  the  higher  and 
grander  the  action,  the  less  useful  is  the  horse  for  real  work,  the  wear 
and  tear  of  horses  of  this  class  being  so  great  as  almost  to  preclude  them 
from  all  that  can  be  called  work,  and  they  are  suitable  only  for  the  park 
and  show. 

The  most  fashionable  colours  arc  bay,  brown,  chestnut,  and  black. 
The  height  will  vary  from  I5hds.  to  I5hds.  3m.,  according  to  the  size  and 
description  of  carriage  he  has  to  draw,  and  the  price  will  vary  from  50/.  to 
150/.,  according  to  style  and  action. 

The  Horse  for  Heavy  Harness. 

Horses  for  this  description  of  work  are  those  that  have  grown  too  large 
and  coarse  for  carriage  horses,  and  are  used  principally  to  run  in  spring 
vans  by  railway  carriers  and  others  requiring  great  strength,  combined 
with  a  certain  amount  of  pace,  and  for  which  the  cart-horse  is  not  adapted 
from  being  too  slow,  and  from  his  weight  and  heavy  action  liable  very  soon 
to  shake  himself  on  the  road  when  put  beyond  a  walking  pace.  Another  sort 
is  the  common,  coarse,  half-bred  horse,  too  light  for  a  cart-horse,  and  too 
plain  and  heavy  for  private  carriages.  These  are  generally  used  in 
omnibuses,  for  which  they  are  admirably  adapted,  as  from  their  size  and 
power,  as  well  as  being  for  the  most  part  active,  and  on  short  legs,  they 
can  draw  these  heavy  machines,  often  loaded  inside  and  out,  at  the  rate 
of  six  miles  an  hour — which  is  as  fast  as  the  frequent  stoppages,  the 
bad  foothold  on  the  stones,  and  the  crowded  state  of  our  streets  will 
admit. 

The  height  of  the  former  will  be  from  i6hds.  to  I7hds.  ;  that  of  the 
latter  from  i5hds.  2in.  to  i6hds.  Good  useful  animals  of  either  class  will 
cost  from  40/.  to  50/. 

COBS  AND  PONIES. 

The  cob  is  a  strong  little  horse,  about  I4.hds.  high,  and  of  various 
descriptions.  The  better  class  are  bred  principally  in  Norfolk  or  Lincoln- 
shire. When  well  bred  and  good-looking,  with  action,  they  are  not  only 
very  useful,  but  very  valuable  for  carrying  heavy  and  elderly  men,  as, 
being  low,  they  are  easy  to  get  on  and  off.  A  good  cob  must  have  a  good 
head,  a  strong  but  not  heavy  neck,  good  oblique  and  very  strong  shoulders, 
not  loaded  at  the  top  or  points,  a  deep  round  body,  good  loin,  and  strong 
muscular  quarters  and  thighs— short,  flat,  firm  legs,  and  good  round  feet : 


Cobs  and  Ponies.  365 

Lj  should  walk  freely  and  well;  step  sharp  and  high  in  the  trot,  and 
canter  safely  and  freely  ;  if,  in  addition  to  these  qualifications,  he  is  quiet, 
and  does  not  shy  or  stumble,  he  is  invaluable.  A  great  many  are  bred  in 
Wales,  but  by  far  the  best  come  from  Norfolk,  Lincolnshire,  and  the 
North,  where  much  more  attention  is  paid  to  breeding  them,  and  more 
care  is  taken  of  them  than  in  Wales,  where  they  run  wild  on  the  hills  till 
they  are  three  or  four  years  old,  when  they  are  sent  over  into  England 
in  droves  to  be  sold  at  the  different  fairs  and  markets. 

The  faults  to  be  avoided  in  purchasing  a  cob  are  upright  shoulders, 
want  of  courage,  and  want  of  action.  Particular  attention  must  be  paid  to 
the  shoulders— that  they  are  well-formed  and  oblique  ;  many  horses  of 
this  class  having  low,  upright  shoulders,  which  renders  them  valueless  as 
riding  cobs,  and  useful  only  for  harness  purposes — nothing  being  so  uncom- 
fortable and  looking  so  ugly  as  riding  on  the  top  of  the  shoulders  instead 
of  well  behind  them,  which  must  necessarily  be  the  case  with  straight,  low 
shoulders.  In  fact,  the  value  of  a  cob  depends  almost  entirely  on  his 
shoulders  and  action  ;  for  whereas  in  the  one  case  he  would  be  only 
worth  30/.,  in  the  other  he  might  be  worth  120/.,  or  even  more.  Some 
very  fast  trotting  cobs  are  bred  in  Wales,  but  they  are  mostly  deficient  in 
style  and  quality,  though  they  can  go  a  great  pace.  As  a  rule,  Welsh 
horses  are  much  better  than  they  appear  to  be  :  they  are  hardy,  useful, 
and  strong,  and  will  stand  a  great  amount  of  work  ;  and,  in  addition,  can 
generally  be  bought  at  a  price  suitable  for  those  who  want  a  useful  animal 
at  a  moderate  price  in  preference  to  a  showy  and  expensive  one. 

The  next  variety  we  will  notice  is  the  pony  ;  and  there  are  various  sorts, 
or  rather  kinds,  named  after  the  counties  and  localities  in  which  they  are 
bred — as  the  Welsh,  the  Scotch,  the  Exmoor,  New  Forest,  Shetland,  &c. 
They  are  all  rough,  strong,  and  hardy  animals,  varying  in  height  from 
I2hds.  to  I4hds.,  doing  a  great  amount  of  hard  work  at  a  small  expense  for 
keep,  &c.  Though  for  the  most  part  well  bred,  they  are  generally  deficient 
about  their  shoulders,  which  are  low  and  upright,  like  those  of  most 
ponies.  They  are  of  no  value  for  general  riding  purposes,  except  to  carry 
children,  and  are  principally  used  to  go  in  light  harness,  in  which  they 
will  do  an  amount  of  work  almost  incredible  if  properly  cared  for.  They 
are  sure-footed  and  fast,  if  not  overweighted,  and  some  make  first-rate 
shooting  ponies  ;  but  they  rarely  grow  to  much  value.  The  Welsh  ponies 
grow  to  a  larger  size  than  the  other  sorts  I  have  mentioned,  and  in  all 
there  is  a  marked  improvement  of  late  years,  owing  to  small,  thorough- 
bred stallions  having  been  sent  into  the  different  districts  for  the  purpose 
of  improving  the  breeds.  The  prices  would  vary  from  15/.  to  30/., 
according  to  circumstances,  age,  action,  &c. 

The  Shetland  pony  is  the  smallest  of  his  class,  seldom  exceeding 
io|hds.  high,  some  never  growing  above  ojids.  high.  They  are  like  dray- 
horses  in  miniature,  are  very  strong,  active,  and  hardy  ;  have  small  heads, 
good  shoulders,  capital  backs  and  quarters,  and  from  their  great  beauty, 
combined  with  general  good  temper  and  docility,  are  well  calculated  for 
the  use  of  children.  They  are  too  small  for  any  other  purpose,  except  for 
drawing  a  small  chaise.  Some  are  very  fast  and  enduring.  I  once  knew 
one  only  iohds.  high,  that  had  trotted  ten  miles  within  the  hour  in 
harness. 


3^6  Defects,  Diseases,  and  Faults  in  the  Horse. 


Defects  in  the  Horse,  which,  while  they  Lessen  his  Value,  do 
not  interfere  with  his  Usefulness  and  Ability  to  Work. 

Crib-biting  is  a  defect,  or  rather  a  bad  habit  (some  call  it  unsound- 
ness), to  which  many  men  have  a  great  objection.  The  horse  seizes  the 
top  of  the  manger,  rack,  or  anything  he  can  take  hold  of  with  his  teeth, 
and  sucks  in  the  wind  with  a  grunting  noise.  In  some  it  at  times  pro- 
duces indigestion  and  flatulency,  but  upon  the  generality  it  seems  to  have 
no  injurious  effect  whatever.  It  is  incurable,  but  may  to  a  certain  extent 
be  stopped  by  buckling  a  strap  rather  tightly  round  the  upper  part  of  the 
neck  of  the  horse.  This  strap  should  be  removed  during  feeding,  and 
then  be  replaced.  I  have  known  many  very  good  horses  crib-biters,  but 
never  one  that  it  in  any  way  affected,  or  stopped  in  his  work.  He  should 
have  plenty  of  good  hay  chaff  with  his  corn,  and  but  a  small  quantity  of 
hay  at  a  time  in  the  rack. 

Wind-sucking  is  only  another  form  of  the  same  bad  habit.  In  this  case 
the  horse  sucks  in  the  wind  without  taking  anything  between  his  teeth. 
Like  crib-biting  it  is  incurable,  but  may  be  checked  by  putting  a  bit  called 
"  a  whistle"  into  the  mouth,  which  must  be  removed  during  feeding,  and 
then  at  once  replaced.  The  whistle  is  formed  of  a  hollow  iron  tube  about 
a  foot  long  and  an  inch  in  diameter,  open  at  each  end,  with  three  or  four 
holes  at  equal  distances  in  the  tube.  It  is  put  into  the  mouth  like  a  bit, 
and  attached  to  a  light  strap  over  the  ears,  like  a  bridle-head.  When  the 
horse  sucks  in  the  wind  it  enters  the  iron  tube  through  the  three  or  four 
holes,  and  passes  out  at  each  end,  instead  of  going  down  the  throat. 
Horses  that  are  slightly  blemished,  either  in  the  knees,  from  any  accident, 
or  from  firing,  if  sound  will  often  do  a  great  amount  of  work,  and  can  be 
bought  at  a  reasonable  price — which  to  a  man  keeping  horses  rather  for 
work  than  show  is  often  a  great  consideration.  They  are  intrinsically  as 
good  as  if  unblemished,  though  their  market  value  is  of  course  greatly 
reduced.  For  harness  purposes  I  should  not  object  to  a  whistler  ;  many 
very  good  stylish  horses  are  so.  It  is  detrimental  and  unpleasant  in  a 
riding  horse  ;  but  in  harness,  with  no  weight  on  the  back,  the  noise  is  so 
slight  as  to  be  inaudible,  and  does  not  in  any  way  interfere  with  his  work. 
In  short,  many  horses  are  practically  and  workably  sound  that  no 
veterinary  surgeon  would  pass;  and  though  really  useful  and  often 
valuable,  are  consequently  to  be  bought  at  a  reduced  price. 

Defects,  Diseases,  and  Faults  to  be  avoided  in  all  Horses. 

A  loose,  weak  neck. — Horses  so  formed  are  extremely  unpleasant  to 
ride;  they  get  their  heads  up,  cannot  see  where  they  are  going,  and  it  is 
impossible  to  feel  their  mouths. 

Twisted  fore-legs. — Horses  with  this  defect,  when  put  to  work,  hit  the 
inside  of  the  fetlock  joint,  and  very  often  under  the  knee  as  well.  Both 
are  highly  dangerous,  as  the  parts  soon  become  swelled  and  sore,  from 
repeated  blows,  rendering  the  horse  liable  to  fall. 

Capped  hocks  are  very  unsightly,  but  seldom  cause  lameness. 

Diseased  eyes,  from  any  cause,  are  sure  to  terminate  in  blindness. 

Stringhalt. — Catching  up  one  or  both  the  hind  legs.  When  conside- 
rable, it  renders  the  horse  very  unpleasant  either  to  ride  or  drive. 


Occasional  Ailments  of  Horses.  3^7 

All  bony  enlargements  of  the  joints — viz.,  spavin,  ringbone,  sidebones, 
&c,  as  causing  lameness,  very  difficult  and  doubtful  of  cure. 

Laminitis,  or  inflammation  of  the  laminae,  generally  resulting  in 
pumiced  or  convex  soles  of  the  feet. 

Corns,  unless  small,  as  if  not  properly  treated,  they  are  very  trouble- 
some, often  causing  temporary  lameness,  and  rendering  the  horse  cramped 
in  his  action,  and  liable  to  fall. 

Chronic  cough. — Frequently  terminates  in  broken  wind. 

Megrims. — An  attack  of  giddiness,  more  or  less  violent,  that  frequently 
attacks  some  horses,  rendering  them  for  the  time  highly  dangerous. 
Since  condition  has  been  better  understood,  and  horses  are  fed  more  on 
manger  food  and  do  not  have  so  much  hay,  megrims  are  not  so  common 
as  formerly.  Fast  free  horses  are  more  liable  to  it  than  others.  The 
cause  is  supposed  to  be  determination  of  blood  to  the  head. 

Navicular  disease. — Lameness  in  the  navicular  joint,  and  incurable. 

An  unnerved  horse,  as  showing  the  horse's  feet  are  diseased.  Many 
unnerved  horses  will  with  care  do  a  great  deal  of  work  either  on  the  road  or 
in  the  field.  It  is  a  merciful  operation  by  which  many  horses  can  work 
and  move  about  with  ease  and  comfort,  that  must  otherwise  have  been 
destroyed,  or  lived  in  pain  and  misery  to  the  end  of  their  days. 

Roaring. — A  disease  of  the  respiratory  organs,  causing  the  horse  to 
make  a  noise  when  put  to  any  exertion. 

All  enlargements  of  sinews  a?id  tendons,  arising  from  breaking  down 
or  violent  strains,  unless  the  horse  has  been  properly  fired  for  them,  and 
is  intended  only  for  light,  easy  work,  when  he  may  stand. 

All  horses  that  show  any  sort  of  vice,  as  rearing,  kicking,  running 
away,  being  restive,  and  shy  badly,  or  are  vicious  in  the  stable.  Such 
animals  are  highly  dangerous  to  all,  but  particularly  so  to  the  inex- 
perienced. 

Occasional  Ailments  of  Horses. 

Horses  are  subject  to  various  ailments  arising  either  from  accident  or 
disease,  too  numerous  to  mention  in  a  treatise  of  this  kind.  The  follow- 
ing are  a  few  of  the  most  common.  In  all  that  are  serious,  or  admit  of 
the  least  doubt,  it  will  be  better  at  once  to  send  for  the  nearest  veterinary 
surgeon,  as  few  grooms  are  competent  to  treat  any  but  the  most  plain 
and  simple  cases.  Many  valuable  horses  have  been  lost  or  rendered  use- 
less by  their  ignorance,  that  might  have  been  saved  by  timely  and  proper 
treatment. 

Influenza  is  perhaps  the  most  common  and  tedious  complaint  to  which 
the  horse  is  liable.  It  is  an  epidemic,  and  most  prevalent  in  the  spring. 
The  symptoms  at  first  are  those  of  a  common  cold,  accompanied  by  more 
or  less  fever,  and  great  and  rapid  prostration  of  strength.  The  appetite 
fails,  the  coat  looks  rough  and  unhealthy,  the  throat  is  sore,  the  flanks 
heave,  the  breathing  is  laboured  and  accompanied  by  a  cough,  the  legs 
swell,  and  the  inside  of  the  eyelids  and  nostrils  is  red  and  congested,  with 
a  thick  yellow  discharge  from  the  latter  about  the  third  or  fourth  day. 
The  most  important  part  of  the  treatment  is  to  keep  up  the  strength  by 
every  possible  means  ;  therefore  bleeding  should  generally  be  avoided, 
and  all  directions  of  the  veterinary  surgeon  be  strictly  carried  out.  The 
stable  must  be  kept  cool  and  well  ventilated,  but  the  horse  kept  warm 
with  clothing  and  bandages.     After  a  horse  is  pronounced  pretty  well 


368  Occasional  Ailments  oj  Horses. 

again,  the  effects  of  a  bad  attack  of  influenza  will  often  last  for  some  time, 
and  in  some  are  never  recovered.  One  common  result  is  an  affection  of 
the  wind,  either  roaring  or  whistling,  both  of  which  are  incurable.  Swell- 
ings on  different  parts  of  the  body  and  legs  are  not  uncommon,  and  are 
only  to  be  removed  by  care  and  good  feeding. 

In  common  cold,  or  catarrh,  the  symptoms  are  similar  to  those  in  in- 
fluenza, but  very  much  milder.  The  horse  should  be  kept  quiet  and  cool, 
the  throat  stimulated  with  mustard  or  liniment,  to  relieve  the  soreness  and 
cough.  He  should  be  fed  on  bran  mashes,  with  a  few  scalded  oats  in 
them,  mixed  with  linseed,  and  have  one  or  two  fever  drinks ;  after  which, 
if  the  attack  be  slight,  a  few  days'  rest  and  quiet  will  set  him  right. 

Congestion  and  inflammation  of  the  lungs  are  highly  dangerous,  and 
no  time  should  be  lost  in  sending  for  the  veterinary  surgeon,  and  at  once 
placing  the  horse  under  his  care.  This  attack  generally  comes  on  with 
shivering,  accompanied  by  hard,  quick  breathing  and  working  of  the  flanks. 
The  horse  is  dull,  hangs  his  head,  refuses  his  food,  and  his  legs  and  ears 
are  cold.  When  taken  at  once  and  in  time  the  attack  may  soon  be  re- 
duced, but  if  neglected,  it  is  a  work  of  time,  and  frequently  terminates 
fatally. 

Colic,  or  gripes,  is  another  complaint  to  which  horses  are  liable,  the 
result  generally  of  indigestion  and  gross  feeding.  Care  must  be  taken  to 
distinguish  between  it  and  inflammation  of  the  bowels,  as  to  an  unprac- 
tised eye  the  symptoms  are  very  similar.  The  horse  is  restless  and 
uneasy,  constantly  looking  round  at  his  flanks,  which  are  blown  out  and 
distended,  and  by  repeatedly  lying  down  and  rolling,  stamping,  and 
kicking,  showing  the  acute  pain  he  is  suffering.  In  colic  there  are  inter- 
vals of  ease  and  rest  which  do  not  occur  in  inflammation  of  the  bowels. 
In  this,  as  in  other  cases,  it  will  be  better  and  safer  at  once  to  send  for  the 
veterinary  surgeon. 

Thrush  is  a  very  common  complaint  in  horses  ;  it  is  a  foul  smelling 
discharge  from  the  clefts  of  the  frog  both  in  the  fore  and  hind  feet,  and  is 
caused  either  from  a  want  of  cleanliness  or  from  an  inflamed  state  of  the 
feet  arising  from  a  gross  habit,  or  other  causes.  It  occasionally  produces 
lameness,  and  when  very  sore  renders  a  horse  unsafe  on  the  road,  where 
he  is  liable  to  tread  upon  loose  rough  stones.  He  should  have  a  dose  of 
physic,  the  feet  be  kept  very  clean,  all  the  loose,  ragged,  diseased  horn  re- 
moved, and  some  common  salt  applied  two  or  three  times  a  week.  Care 
must  be  taken  to  keep  the  feet  dry  and  clean  in  the  stable,  and  an  altera- 
tive administered  every  three  or  four  days.  This  treatment  will  soon 
effect  a  cure. 

Broken  knees  are  the  result  of  a  fall  upon  some  hard  substance,  as  the 
road,  &c,  causing  a  lacerated  wound.  They  should  be  washed  as  clean 
as  possible  with  warm  water,  then  well  poulticed  to  remove  all  the  dirt 
and  grit  that  cannot  be  removed  by  washing,  which  will  not  only  remove 
the  soreness  and  reduce  the  inflammation,  but  very  materially  assist  the 
healing.  After  which,  if  necessary,  a  strong  stimulant  may  be  used  to 
reduce  the  enlargements  and  promote  the  growth  of  the  hair. 

All  horses,  but  particularly  hunters,  are  exposed  to  accidents,  as  blows, 
thorns,  and  wounds.  In  most  cases  begin  with  a  mild  dose  of  physic,  to 
cool  the  system.  If  the  blow  be  severe  use  cooling  lotions  to  subdue  the 
inflammation,  after  which,  if  any   enlargement   remains,  two   or  three 


Occasional  A  il in  cuts  of  Hon  set.  3^9 

dressings  with  biniodide  of  mercury  will  be  found  to  reduce  it.  The  in- 
flammation and  soreness  arising  from  thorns  are  only  temporary.  When 
possible  they  should  be  extracted  ;  but  if  not,  poultices  made  of  bran  and 
linseed  meal  mixed  should  be  constantly  applied,  hot.  This  will  assist 
nature  in  promoting  slight  suppuration,  and  they  will  work  out. 

In  all  cases  of  wounds,  if  large  and  severe,  they  must  be  first  washed 
to  remove  all  dirt,  &c,  then  neatly  sewn  up,  and  the  part  well  fomented 
with  warm  water.  If  slight,  they  should  be  bound  up  if  necessary,  and 
washed  with  arnica  and  water  several  times  a  day. 

Horses  are  occasionally  pricked  in  shoeing,  owing  to  the  carelessness 
of  the  smith,  or  a  nail  may  be  picked  up  on  the  road.  In  either  case  the 
shoe  must  be  removed,  the  horn  cut  away  around  the  hole  made  by  the  nail 
to  allow  any  matter  that  may  have  formed  to  escape,  and  the  feet  kept  in 
a  poultice  till  the  inflammation  has  subsided,  and  all  fear  of  further  sup- 
puration is  at  an  end. 

Swelled  legs  and  cracked  heels. — Many  horses  in  the  autumn  are 
subject  to  swelling  of  the  legs,  but  principally  of  the  hinder  ones.  It  is 
produced  by  the  horse  being  out  of  health  and  condition,  generally  from 
debility,  and  is  often  accompanied  by  a  cracking  of  the  skin  on  the  heels. 
Horses  that  have  been  summered  at  grass  are  particularly  liable  to  swelled 
legs  in  the  autumn,  when  put  to  work.  Good  feeding,  tonics,  and  steady 
exercise,  with  an  alterative  ball  twice  a  week,  will  soon  set  all  right. 

When  the  heels  are  cracked  the  horse  should  be  kept  in  the  dry,  as 
much  as  possible  at  exercise.  They  must  be  kept  clean,  with  some  gly- 
cerine ointment  well  rubbed  in  about  an  hour  before  going  out,  to  keep 
the  skin  soft  and  pliable,  and  less  likely  to  crack  out  again.  But  they  are 
at  all  times  tedious  and  difficult  to  cure.  Some  horses  always  have  their 
heels  more  or  less  cracked  all  the  winter. 

Lameness. — There  are  various  and  numerous  causes  of  lameness  in 
horses,  brought  on  by  hard  work,  disease,  or  the  result  of  accident.  Some 
of  these  rest  and  treatment  will  soon  remove,  and  others  are  incu- 
rable. As  this  is  not  a  veterinary  work  but  intended  to  assist  merely  in 
the  selection  and  management  of  horses,  only  a  few  of  the  most  common 
will  be  briefly  noticed. 

Splints  are  small  bony  enlargements  on  the  fore  legs  of  a  horse  ;  they 
are  generally  situated  on  the  inside,  but  occasionally  occur  on  the  outside. 
They  do  not  always  occasion  lameness  except  in  first  forming,  wThen  they 
are  very  sore.  But  few  horses  are  quite  free  from  them,  and  they  are  not 
generally  of  consequence  unless  interfering  in  any  way  with  the  action. 
Young  horses  are  principally  liable  to  them,  as  they  are  seldom  met 
with  in  horses  of  seven  or  eight  years  old.  There  are  several  operations 
for  removing  them,  as  blistering,  firing,  setons,  &c,  but  unless  of  any  size 
and  consequence  rest  and  a  strong  blister  will  generally  render  them 
harmless. 

All  horses,  and  particularly  hunters,  are  subject  to  strains  of  various 
parts  which  for  a  time  produce  lameness,  and  are  very  frequently  the 
effect  of  severe  work  before  the  horse  is  fully  prepared  for  it. 

A  curb  is  a  swelling  at  the  back  part  of  the  hock  ;  it  generally  occurs 
in  young  horses  and  is  caused  by  a  violent  strain  on  that  part.  Some 
hocks  are  so  formed  as  to  be  predisposed  to  throw  curbs,  and  in  them 
they  are  always  likely  to  recur  unless  the  part  is  properly  fired.     When 

B  B 


370  Stable  Servants. 


they  occur  in  good  shaped  hocks  the  remedy  is  simple,  and  time  and  rest 
will  effect  a  cure. 

Treatment. — A  dose  of  physic,  the  parts  to  be  kept  cold  and  wet  with 
cooling  lotion.  When  the  inflammation  has  subsided,  three  or  four  strong 
dressings  with  biniodide  of  mercury  and  a  few  weeks'  rest. 

Strains  of  the  back  tendons  and  suspensory  ligaments  are  violent  strains 
of  the  tendons  and  ligaments  between  the  knee  and  fetlock  joint,  and  the 
hock  and  fetlock  joint.  Hunters  and  race  horses  are  more  liable  to  them 
than  horses  whose  work  is  not  so  fast  and  severe.  The  horse  should  have  a 
dose  of  physic,  with  cooling  lotion  constantly  applied  to  the  parts  till  the 
inflammation  has  subsided,  after  which  strong  blisters,  and  in  bad  cases 
the  legs  must  be  fired.  Under  no  circumstances  will  the  horse  be  fit  to 
use  for  five  or  six  months. 

Bone  spavin  is  a  bony  deposit  formed  inside  the  joints  forming  the 
hock.  It  is  the  effect  of  strain  and  of  hard  work.  If  taken  in  time  it  may 
sometimes  be  cured  or  at  any  rate  much  alleviated.  It  is  often  incurable  and 
the  horse  will  remain  lame  for  life,  but  much  will  depend  upon  the  part  of 
the  hock  affected.  In  the  early  stages  much  may  be  done  by  blistering  and 
firing,  but  when  confirmed  it  is  incurable.  In  a  mild  form  the  horse  will 
start  lame  even  if  he  goes  sound  when  warm. 

Corns  are  sometimes  very  troublesome.  They  come  in  the  inside  heel 
of  the  fore  feet  and  are  the  result  oi  bad  shoeing  or  neglect  in  allowing 
the  shoe  to  remain  on  too  long  and  thereby  to  press  upon  and  bruise  that 
part  of  the  sensible  sole.  Horses  with  low  weak  heels  are  particularly 
liable  to  them.  When  slight  and  recent  they  are  of  little  consequence  if 
carefully  treated,  but  if  confirmed  and  of  long  standing  are  incurable,  and 
it  is  only  by  the  greatest  care  and  having  the  shoes  removed  once  a  fort- 
night, the  horse  can  be  kept  sound.  The  corns  must  be  well  pared  away, 
the  shoe  hammered  out  so  as  not  to  press  on  the  heels,  and  the  parts 
dressed  with  ointment  to  remove  the  soreness,  keep  down  the  inflam- 
mation and  promote  the  secretion  of  horn.  There  are  several  receipts 
for  this,  but  the  veterinary  surgeon  can  always  supply  one  that  will  answer 
the  purpose. 

STABLE  SERVANTS. 

The  coachman  must  be  a  steady,  sober,  good-tempered,  and  respectable 
man,  his  office  being  in  most  cases  a  very  responsible  one  ;  many  masters, 
either  from  want  of  energy,  or  through  ignorance,  leaving  so  much  to  his 
management.  He  not  only  has  the  entire  control  of  the  carriage  and  horses, 
buying  the  oats,  hay,  straw,  &c,  but  very  frequently  selects  and  purchases 
the  horses,  so  that,  unless  a  conscientious  man,  he  has  it  in  his  power 
to  subject  his  master  to  serious  loss  and  inconvenience.  He  must  have 
had  considerable  experience  in  driving,  to  drive  quietly  and  steadily 
without  allowing  the  horses  to  jerk  or  snatch,  which  is  most  dis- 
agreeable and  uncomfortable  to  those  in  the  carriage,  and  thoroughly 
understand  their  management  in  the  stable.  No  man,  however  willing, 
can  attend  properly  to  more  than  two  horses  and  the  carriage,  and  if  the 
carriage  be  out  on  an  average  three  hours  a  day  he  will  find  he  has  but 
little  time  to  spare  if  properly  turned  out.  The  great  inconvenience  of 
having  only  one  servant  is,  that  on  the  carriage  coming  in  wet  and  dirty, 
if  it  be  not   at   once  washed  before  the  mud  dries  on,  it  will  not  only 


The  Groom.  37 1 


take  much  longer  to  clean,  but  the  paint  and  varnish  suffer  by  the  mud 
being  allowed  to  dry  on,  while  if  this  be  done  at  once  the  horses  are 
standing  quite  unattended  to,  at  the  risk  of  taking  cold,  getting  cracked 
heels,  &c. 

In  case  of  accident  or  illness,  however,  disabling  one  horse,  three  or 
more  are  generally  kept,  in  which  case  a  helper  is  indispensable,  and  the 
wet  carriage  and  horses  can  then  receive  proper  and  immediate  attention. 

The  coachman  generally  has  rooms  over  the  stable  to  protect  the  pro- 
perty, and  to  be  on  the  spot  in  case  of  accident  or  illness  to  the  horses,  so 
that  he  lives  rent  free  ;  in  addition  to  which  his  average  wages  will  be  2/. 
per  week  including  his  livery,  stable  dress,  coals,  candles,  &c.  ;  those  of  a 
helper  will  vary  from  15s.  to  1/.  according  to  his  age,  and  the  locality. 
Where  a  coachman  has  but  one  horse  and  carriage  to  drive  and  attend  to, 
a  younger  and  less  experienced  man  will  answer  the  purpose,  particularly 
in  the  country.  In  this  case,  as  his  time  will  not  be  fully  occupied  in  the 
stable,  he  may  be  expected  and  required  to  make  himself  useful  about  the 
house,  &c.  His  wages,  too,  will  average  10s.  or  12s.  a  week  less  than 
those  of  a  superior  coachman. 

The  Groom. 

There  are  several  descriptions  and  classes  of  grooms  employed  in 
private  stables.  With  the  stud-groom,  for  the  breaking  and  training  of 
thoroughbred  horses,  we  have  here  nothing  to  do.  The  most  important 
is  the  groom  for  the  training  and  management  of  hunters.  For  this  pur- 
pose he  must  be  very  steady,  respectable,  and  intelligent,  and  have 
had  considerable  experience  ;  for  as  the  hunter,  to  carry  a  man  well  and 
safely  to  hounds  must  be  veiy  fit,  it  follows  that  the  groom  must  under- 
stand not  only  how  to  prepare  him,  but  when  he  is  fit. 

The  preparation  required  for  a  hunter  is  such  as  to  enable  him  to  carry 
a  certain  weight  through  deep  ground  for  some  hours,  often  at  a  great 
pace,  hence  his  wind  must  be  clear,  his  flesh  hard  and  firm,  he  must  be 
full  of  power  and  muscle  to  perform  the  severe  and  long-continued  exer- 
tion so  often  required  of  him. 

No  groom  can,  without  considerable  experience,  do  this,  as  he  must 
understand  how  to  feed  and  treat  the  various  habits  and  constitutions  of 
the  different  horses  that  come  under  his  charge,  the  quantity  of  corn,  &c, 
and  the  amount  of  work  best  suited  for  each  horse,  and  how  to  treat  the 
various  accidents,  blows,  strains,  thorns,  cuts,  &c,  to  which  all  hunters 
are  liable. 

A  hunting-groom  cannot  properly  attend  to  more  than  three  hunters 
without  help.  In  studs  of  five  or  six  he  should  have  two  helpers  under 
him,  and  in  large  studs  one  man  to  every  three  hunters,  his  own  time  will 
be  fully  taken  up  in  a  general  superintendence  of  the  helpers,  attending  to 
the  horses  that  are  ill,  or  have  met  with  accidents,  &c,  and  perhaps  riding 
second  horses  for  his  master  when  hunting. 

A  good  hunting-groom  is  a  very  valuable  servant,  so  much  depending 
upon  him  as  to  the  safety,  comfort,  and  style  in  which  a  man  is  carried  to 
hounds.  He  cannot  of  course  make  a  good  or  fast  horse  out  of  a  bad 
or  slow  one,  but  by  proper  care,  attention,  and  exercise  he  can  very  much 
improve  him,  and  a  fair  moderate  horse  fit  to  go  will  generally  beat  a 
really  good  one  only  half  prepared. 

b  r.  2 


3  7  2  Stable  Management  of  the  Horse. 

His  average  wages,  including  extras,  will  amount  to  from  30J.  to  35 s. 
per  week,  but  in  his  case,  as  in  that  of  any  first-rate  trustworthy  servant, 
a  few  additional  pounds  a  year  is  money  very  well  and  economically  laid 
out. 

Another  class  of  groom  is  one  that  is  rarely  expected  either  to  ride  or 
drive.  His  duties  are  to  feed,  dress,  and  attend  to  the  horses  generally, 
and  clean  a  chaise  and  harness,  &c.  He  should  be  active,  respectful, 
and  obliging  ;  two  horses  with  a  chaise  and  harness  will  be  as  much  as 
he  can  properly  attend  to ;  and  should  he  be  expected  occasionally  to 
drive  or  ride  he  will  need  a  helper  ;  nothing  tends  so  much  to  spoil  a  ser- 
vant and  make  him  idle  and  careless  in  his  work  as  giving  him  more  than 
he  can  fairly  and  properly  do.  When  a  groom  is  required  to  help  in  the 
stable,  and  ride  behind  his  master  and  family,  I  know  of  no  one  so  useful 
and  fitted  for  the  purpose  as  a  good  steady  lad  out  of  a  racing  stable,  and 
who  has  grown  too  heavy  for  that  work,  as  he  is  sure  to  be  a  good  stable- 
man, and  to  ride  well  and  smartly. 

After  these  come  the  nondescript  class,  part  groom,  part  cowman  and 
gardener,  who  are  more  useful  than  smart  or  ornamental.  They  cannot 
be  called  grooms,  they  simply  just  feed  and  "look  after"  the  horse,  or 
pony  and  carriage,  and  are  for  the  most  part  young  fellows  who  are  either 
too  lazy  or  too  loutish  to  try  to  improve  or  take  any  pride  or  interest  in 
their  work. 

STABLE    MANAGEMENT    OP    THE    HORSE. 

In  the  morning  the  first  thing  the  groom  does  on  entering  the  stable, 
which  must  not  be  later  than  six  o'clock,  if  the  weather  be  warm  and  fine 
will  be  to  open  the  door  and  admit  some  fresh  air  ;  he  will  then  give  each 
horse  a  little  water  and  a  piece  of  hay  ;  having  eaten  which,  he  will  put 
on  the  hood  and  watering-bridle,  and  take  him  out  for  exercise.  While 
out,  the  helpers  will  separate  the  dry  clean  straw  from  the  damp  and  soiled, 
removing  the  latter  to  the  manure  heap.  Thoroughly  sweep  and  cleanse 
the  floor  of  each  stall  and  box,  allowing  the  straw  to  remain  turned  up 
until  the  return  of  the  horses,  when  it  may  be  partly  littered  down  again. 
Each  horse  will  then  have  a  feed  of  corn,  and  having  eaten  it,  be  well 
dressed  and  his  stall  or  box  set  fair.  When  one  groom  only  is  kept  or 
where  the  horses  do  a  fair  amount  of  work  during  the  day,  early  exercise 
is  impossible  and  unnecessary. 

In  dressing  the  horse  the  first  thing  the  groom  does  is  to  turn  him 
round  in  his  stall,  fold  the  rug  back  from  his  neck  and  shoulders,  then 
well  and  carefully  brush  his  head,  neck,  and  shoulders  with  the  body- 
brush,  cleaning  it  with  the  currycomb  as  often  as  required.  He  is  then 
turned  back  in  the  stall,  the  clothing  removed,  and  his  body,  hind-quarters, 
and  legs  undergo  the  same  careful  and  thorough  brushing,  care  being 
taken  to  keep  the  brush  clean  with  frequent  use  of  the  currycomb.  He 
is  next  wiped  all  over  with  a  damp  whisp  made  of  haybands,  which  entirely 
removes  any  remaining  dust,  and  after  being  well  wiped  over  with  a  linen 
rubber  or  wash-leather,  his  clothes  are  put  on  and  secured  by  the  roller. 
His  eyes,  nose,  and  anus  are  next  sponged  clean,  his  mane  and  tail  care- 
fully combed  or  brushed,  first  with  a  dry  and  then  with  a  clamp  brush  ;  the 
feet  are  carefully  picked  out  and  washed,  the  legs  well  brushed,  and  if 


Food.  373 

dirty  or  stained,  well  washed,  and  either  rubbed  dry  or  dried  in  flannel 
bandages.     The  stall  is  then  set  fair  and  the  horse  ready  for  use. 

With  grey  or  light-coloured  horses,  or  that  have  white  legs,  the  better 
plan  will  be  to  wash  all  stains  off  the  quarters,  &c.,  and  to  wash  the  legs 
with  warm  waiter  and  soap,  rubbing  the  first  dry  and  well  bandaging  the 
latter  before  proceeding  to  dress  the  horse,  as  by  the  time  that  operation 
is  over  the  legs  will  be  dry  and  the  horse  warm  and  comfortable. 

In  the  spring  and  autumn,  when  the  horse  is  shedding  his  coat  and 
the  hair  is  broken  and  thin,  the  body-brush  must  be  laid  aside,  the  whisp 
and  rubber  being  then  quite  sufficient  for  the  necessary  dressing. 

Before  having  the  harness  put  on  to  go  out  the  horse  must  again  be 
wiped  over,  his  mane  and  tail  brushed,  and  his  hoofs  rubbed  round  with 
the  oil-brush — some  people  object  to  the  use  of  the  oil-brush  to  the  feet, 
and  only  have  them  done  round  with  a  wet  brush. 

On  returning  to  the  stable  after  work,  if  he  be  clean  and  dry,  his  feet 
should  be  well  picked  out  and  washed,  and  he  should  again  be  well 
dressed  and  set  fair.  But  if  he  returns  hot  and  tired  and  wet  and  dirty, 
the  best  and  quickest  plan  is  to  wash  him  all  over  with  tepid  water, 
scraping  him  immediately  as  dry  as  possible,  clothing  him  up,  and  ban- 
daging his  legs  above  his  knees  and  hocks  with  flannel  bandages.  If  the 
weather  be  warm,  he  may  be  washed  in  the  open  air,  and  a  light  suit  of 
clothes  put  on,  to  be  replaced  by  fresh  as  soon  as  he  is  dry  ;  but  in  winter, 
and  if  it  be  cold,  he  must  be  washed  in  the  stable,  and  a  suit  of  warm 
clothing  put  on  until  he  is  dry,  when  it  must  be  changed.  By  this  means 
the  horse  will  be  got  fresh  and  comfortable  in  a  much  shorter  time  and 
with  less  fatigue  to  himself  than  if  the  dirt  and  sweat  were  removed  in  any 
other  way  and  he  was  rubbed  dry. 

At  seven  o'clock,  the  horses  that  have  not  been  out  or  done  but  little 
work  may  again  have  their  clothing  removed  and  be  wiped  over,  which 
must  not  be  done  when  the  horse  is  tired  with  work  and  has  been  once 
made  fresh.  They  may  then  be  fed,  their  heads  let  down,  their  feet 
stopped,  and  be  shut  up  for  the  night. 

Food, 

Hay  for  horses  should  invariably  be  the  best  quality  ;  many  different 
sorts  and  conditions  being  more  or  less  detrimental  to  the  digestion  and 
wind.  Good  old  upland  meadow  hay  is  the  best,  as  being  the  hardest, 
sweetest,  and  most  hearty.  It  should  be  of  a  pale  brown  colour,  and  smell 
sweet  and  clean.  Hay  of  a  green  colour  is  generally  grown  on  low,  marshy 
ground,  and  is  often  dusty  ;  while  the  dark  brown  indicates  that  the  stack 
has  been  very  hot  from  having  been  put  together  in  too  green  a  state 
before  it  was  properly  made.  Both  are  detrimental  to  the  horse,  and 
therefore  to  be  avoided. 

The  price  of  hay  depends  upon  the  quality,  and  the  abundance  or 
shortness  of  the  crop.  It  varies  from  4/.  to  5/.  ioj*.,  according  to  the 
season. 

Clover  hay  is  but  seldom  used  in  private  stables  as  being  too  coarse, 
except  occasionally  to  cut  up  and  mix  with  the  chaff.  When  of  fine  quality, 
and  well  cut,  it  is  remarkably  sweet,  and  gives  a  flavour  to  the  chaff  that 
will  often  tempt  a  delicate  horse  to  feed. 

Oats  are  the  staple  food  for  horses  when  in  work,  and  are  of  various 


374  Food. 

kinds,  English  and  foreign.  The  former  are  generally  preferred,  but  some 
of  the  foreign  oats  are  very  good  feed.  Oats  should  be  sweet,  free  from 
dirt  and  stones,  and  weigh  nearly,  if  not  quite,  forty  pounds  per  bushel. 
The  lighter  oats  are  generally  deficient  in  kernel,  while  some  of  the  heavier 
kinds,  by  thick  coarse  husks,  make  up  the  weight,  which  must  be  taken 
into  consideration  by  the  purchaser  in  making  his  selection. 

The  price  will  vary  from  10s.  to  30J.  per  quarter  ;  good  oats  for  general 
feeding  may  be  had  for  25^.  per  quarter.  The  value  of  the  oat  depends 
more  upon  the  thinness  of  the  husk  and  the  amount  of  meal  contained  in 
the  kernel,  than  upon  the  size  and  weight,  which  is  often  the  result  of  thick, 
coarse  husks. 

No  oats  should  be  used  until  they  have  been  cut  at  least  six  months  ; 
and  if  twelve  or  eighteen  months  they  are  so  much  the  better.  New  oats, 
and  oats  that  have  been  heated  in  the  barn  or  stack,  are  not  only  very 
prejudicial  to  the  horse,  but  it  is  impossible  to  get  him  into  good  condition 
on  them,  as  being  too  soft  and  relaxing. 

Some  horses  bolt  their  corn  nearly  whole,  which  consequently  does  not 
do  them  so  much  good  as  it  otherwise  would.  A  double-handful  of  chaff 
in  each  feed  will,  to  a  certain  extent  remedy  this,  but  crushing  or  bruising 
the  oats  in  a  mill  is  a  far  better  remedy  ;  in  fact,  I  quite  believe  that  to 
bruise  all  the  corn  for  horses  would  be  found  the  most  economical  plan, 
as  they  would  derive  greater  benefit  from  it  by  more  easy  and  complete 
digestion,  a  smaller  quantity  would  go  as  far,  and  the  improved  power  and 
condition  of  the  horse  amply  repay  the  labour  and  cost  of  bruising. 

By  crushing  or  bruising  I  do  not  mean  grinding  to  a  powder,  but  merely 
crushing  the  husks  and  kernel. 

Beans  are  used  only  occasionally  in  feeding  private  horses  when  they 
are  exposed  to  bad,  rough  weather  for  any  length  of  time,  or  when  tired 
and  jaded  and  worn  down  by  long  courses  of  hard  work.  In  small  quan- 
tities they  will  then  be  found  very  useful  to  invigorate  the  frame,  and  warm 
and  stimulate  the  impaired  strength  and  digestion  ;  but  they  must  not  on 
any  account  be  used  if  the  horse  be  suffering  from  any  inflammatory 
attacks  either  of  the  internal  organs,  or  of  the  feet  and  legs,  being  too 
heating.  In  the  autumn,  when  shedding  the  coat,  many  horses  are  subject 
to  swelling  of  the  legs  ;  in  such  cases  beans  are  particularly  good  ;  a 
quartern  of  good  old  beans  a  day  to  a  quartern  and  a  half  may  then  be 
given  with  advantage,  and  if  assisted  by  a  few  alterative  balls  will  soon 
reduce  all  swelling,  and  strengthen  and  invigorate  the  horse  in  every  way. 
Beans  should  be  at  all  times  a  twelvemonth  old.  New  beans  are  par- 
ticularly objectionable,  and  do  more  harm  than  good. 

White  peas  have  the  same  effect  as  beans,  and  are  used  in  the  same 
way.  To  be  good  they  must  be  old.  Some  prefer  them  to  beans  for 
hunters  and  horses  that  do  fast  work.  Some,  however,  do  better  on  peas 
and  others  on  beans,  which  it  is  the  duty  of  the  groom  to  discover,  and 
act  accordingly. 

Bran  is  the  husk  of  wheat  separated  from  the  flour  after  being  ground  ; 
it  is  very  useful  in  the  stable.  It  is  made  into  mashes  either  hot  or  cold, 
and  occasionally  used  for  poultices  for  wounds,  thorns,  and  blows. 
Mashes  are  very  good  given  occasionally  at  night,  instead  of  hay,  as  they 
have  a  laxative  effect,  and  keep  the  horse's  legs  and  body  cool.  After 
hunting,  the  horse  should  have  a  warm  mash,  with  about  a  quartern  and  a 


Food.  375 

half  of  scalded  oats  in  it  instead  of  dry  hay  and  oats,  being  easier  of 
digestion,  as  from  having  often  been  many  hours  without  food,  he  is  apt 
to  eat  fast  and  ravenously,  and  thus  fills  the  stomach  with  food  it  is  not  in 
a  condition  properly  to  digest.  Sunday  being  an  idle  day  in  most  private 
stables,  Saturday  is  generally  selected  to  give  a  mash,  which  may  be  hot 
or  cold,  according  to  the  time  of  year  and  the  condition  of  the  horse. 
About  half  a  pailful  is  the  proper  quantity.  A  horse  should  not  on  any 
account  have  a  mash  the  night  before  hunting,  or  any  other  hard  work  is 
required  of  him.  Some  horses  find  a  mash  too  relaxing  under  any  cir- 
cumstances ;  when  a  quartern  of  dry  bran  mixed  with  the  oats  at  night 
will  have  the  necessary  effect. 

Chaff. — In  all  large  establishments  of  working  horses,  as  in  the  stables 
of  omnibus  proprietors  and  cab-masters,  the  object  is  to  enable  the  horse 
to  take  his  corn,  &c.  as  quickly  as  possible  and  lie  down  to  rest.  For 
this  purpose  all  the  hay  and  clover  is  cut  into  chaff,  and  mixed  with  the 
oats,  which  not  only  enables  the  horse  to  eat  it  more  readily  and  quickly, 
but  also  to  grind  it  more  thoroughly.  Chaff  is  made  of  hay,  clover,  and 
wheat  or  barley  or  oat  straw  cut  into  short  lengths,  and  then  mixed.  The 
general  mixture  for  private  stables  is  two-thirds  good  meadow-hay,  and 
one-third  clean  wheat  straw.  Clover  chaff  is  used  principally  for  horses 
doing  slower  work  than  is  generally  the  case  with  private  horses. 

Carrots  are  occasionally  given  to  horses  as  a  slight  alterative,  they 
should  be  washed  clean,  and  cut  up  into  pieces.  Horses  are  particularly 
fond  of  them,  a  few  now  and  then  are  very  good,  and  keep  the  body  cool, 
but  they  must  be  given  sparingly  to  hunters  and  horses  required  for  hard, 
fast  work. 

There  are  several  kinds  of  green  food  for  horses  in  the  spring  and 
summer,  of  which  tares  or  vetches,  Lucerne  and  clover  are  the  principal. 
Tares  or  vetches  when  young  are  very  good  for  fattening  horses,  but 
are  then  too  relaxing  for  work ;  as  they  get  older  and  full  of  seed  they  are 
harder,  and  with  some  corn,  horses  will  do  a  considerable  amount  of  work 
on  them,  but  in  a  general  way  they  are  used  only  sparingly  as  a  natural 
alterative,  and  given  in  a  small  quantity  once  or  twice  a  day.  Lucerne  is 
a  green  meat,  as  tares,  but  harder  and  drier  in  its  nature  ;  a  piece  of 
Lucerne  once  sown  will  last  for  years,  yielding  at  least  five  cuts  every 
year  ;  it  wants  to  be  kept  very  clean,  and  occasionally  manured.  Horses 
are  not  as  fond  of  it  as  of  tares  and  clover. 

Clover  like  tares  is  very  fattening,  and  too  relaxing  in  a  young  and 
green  state  for  horses  to  work  upon.  There  are  several  other  kinds  of 
green  food,  but  they  are  in  all  respects  inferior  to  those  I  have  mentioned. 

Straw. — For  the  bedding  of  horses  wlieac  straw  is  generally  used. 
The  greater  part  of  wheat  is  now  thrashed  out  by  machine,  and  but  little 
by  hand,  consequently  the  straw  is  not  so  good,  and  does  not  last  so  long 
as  formerly,  the  machine  breaking  and  bruising  the  straw  so  much  more 
than  the  flail. 

A  careless  groom  will  use  at  least  one  truss  of  straw  per  week  more  to 
each  horse,  than  a  good  careful  one  will  use.  The  latter  will  be  careful  in 
the  morning  on  turning  up  the  bed  to  separate  the  soiled,  dirty  straw  from 
that  which  may  be  used  again  ;  removing  the  former  from  the  stable,  he  will 
then,  after  thoroughly  sweeping  out  the  stall  or  box,  put  what  may  be  a 
little  damaged  at  the  bottom,  and  the  clean  at  the  top.  Such  a  groom  will 


376"  Feeding. 


use  about  two  trusses  to  two  and  a  half  per  week  while  another  would 
use  at  least  one  truss  a  week  more. 

The  best  way  to  economise  litter  is  to  sweep  the  stall  or  box  out  as 
dry  and  as  clean  as  possible  in  the  morning,  and  take  up  the  droppings 
regularly  at  once,  before  they  are  trodden  into  the  straw. 

Straw  when  good  is  bright  and  clean  looking.  The  price  will  vary 
from  305-.  to  45^.  per  load  according  to  the  season.  In  wet  seasons  it  is 
difficult  to  get  good  straw,  as  it  is  generally  then  dark  and  mildewed- 
looking  from  the  rain.  At  any  time,  good  oat  or  barley  straw  is  better 
for  cutting  into  chaff  than  wheat  straw,  but  it  is  not  easy  to  obtain  ;  most 
farmers  keeping  it  for  fodder  for  home  use. 

Eco7i07ny  in  the  stable  depends  entirely  upon  the  groom.  If  he  does 
his  duty  well  and  conscientiously,  he  will  keep  down  the  expenses  as  far 
as  is  practicable  with  justice  to  the  horse.  Nothing  whatever  is  gained 
by  buying  cheap  or  inferior  fodder,  on  the  contrary  the  horse  suffers 
in  every  way,  in  condition,  appearance,  and  value. 

Feeding. 

The  ordinary  food  for  horses  is  corn  and  hay.  They  should  have  the 
corn  four  times  a  day — at  about  seven,  eleven,  three  and  seven  ;  and  the 
hay  twice — at  night  and  in  the  morning.  These  times  may  be  slightly 
varied  to  suit  the  convenience.  The  quantity  of  each  must  depend  upon 
the  size  and  description  of  horse,  and  the  amount  of  work  required  of 
him.  A  full-sized  carriage  horse  will  require  at  least  five  quarterns  of  corn, 
and  about  twelve  or  fourteen  pounds  of  hay,  daily.  These  horses  being 
kept  for  show  and  style  rather  than  for  work,  are  required  to  be  full  of 
flesh  to  give  them  a  grander  and  more  imposing  appearance. 

The  hunter  having  hard,  fast,  and  long-continuous  work  to  perform, 
greater  care  is  required  in  feeding  him.  Some  hunters  are  delicate  feeders, 
and  cannot  under  any  circumstances  be  induced  to  eat  more  than  three 
quarterns  of  corn  and  beans  in  the  twenty-four  hours  ;  consequently  they 
never  look  well,  are  never  quite  fit,  and  cannot  come  again  more  than 
once  in  ten  days  or  a  fortnight.  Such  horses  must  be  got  fit  as  best  they 
may  by  changing  the  diet  as  often  as  possible,  and  by  giving  only  a  little 
at  a  time,  but  frequently.  By  changing  the  diet  I  mean,  by  sometimes 
giving  old  beans  with  the  corn,  at  other  times  old  white  peas,  and  adding 
at  one  time  good  hay  chaff,  at  another  clover  chaff,  and  occasionally  a 
few  pieces  of  chopped  carrot  mixed  with  the  corn — in  fact,  trying  almost 
everything  that  will  tempt  a  delicate  horse  to  feed. 

From  five  to  six  quarterns  of  corn,  with  a  few  good  old  beans  or  white 
peas,  and  ten  or  twelve  pounds  of  good  old  meadow  hay,  is  the  average 
daily  food  of  a  hunter  going  three  days  a  fortnight.  It  is  a  great  mistake 
to  get  a  hunter  too  fine,  as  the  work  being  hard  and  long-continued,  he 
must  be  full  of  muscle  and  strong,  but  at  the  same  time  in  good  wind. 
It  is  difficult  to  lay  down  any  definite  rules  for  feeding  hunters,  as  some 
require  much  more  food  than  others  to  keep  them  in  the  same  condition. 
As  soon  as  convenient  after  a  day's  hunting  the  horse  should  have  some 
gruel — it  is  better  than  corn,  as  being  easy  of  digestion  and  more  invigo- 
rating for  a  tired  horse.  A  hack  will  require  from  three  to  four  quarterns 
of  corn  a  day,  and  about  the  same  quantity  of  hay  as  the  hunter.  His 
work  is  much  lighter  and  he  requires  a  more  round  and  fleshy  appearance. 


Wafer — Summering  the  Hunter.  377 

Beans  are  only  occasionally  necessary  for  hacks,  and  then  only  when 
much  exposed  to  bad  and  wet  weather.  Harness  horses  must  be  fed  in 
much  the  same  way  as  hacks,  but  much  depends  upon  their  size  and  the 
work  they  are  required  to  perform.  Ponies  require  about  two  quarterns 
of  corn  daily,  and  seven  or  eight  pounds  of  hay,  some  even  less  than  that, 
as  they  are  invariably  hardy,  and  unless  hard  worked  will  keep  fat  on 
very  little.  Horses  of  all  sizes  and  all  descriptions  should  have  chaff 
mixed  with  every  feed  of  corn,  as  it  enables  them  to  masticate  the  oats 
more  thoroughly,  and  so  far  assists  digestion. 

Water. 

Where  practicable  it  will  be  better  for  the  horse  to  have  water 
constantly  by  him  in  a  small  tank  for  the  purpose,  that  he  may  drink  when 
he  feels  disposed  ;  when  such  is  the  case  he  drinks  less  than  when  it  is 
offered  to  him  at  stated  times. 

In  stables  unfitted  with  tanks  the  water  must  be  taken  to  the  horse 
not  less  than  four  times  a  day,  and  he  then  may  be  allowed  to  take  as 
much  as  he  pleases  in  moderation. 

Pond  water  is  the  best  for  horses  when  it  can  be  procured,  and  even 
when  dirty  they  take  it  in  preference  to  any  other.  Hard  pump  water  is 
often  injurious  at  first  till  they  become  used  to  it,  but  that  is  at  all  times 
preferable  to  stale  stagnant  rain  water.  Hard  water  will  to  some  extent 
produce  indigestion  and  consequently  a  rough  staring  coat. 

Care  must  be  taken  to  water  the  horse  some  little  time  before  starting 
him  on  a  journey,  and  also  on  his  return,  that  he  is  not  allowed  to  drink 
too  much  at  first,  and  if  the  horse  be  heated  and  the  water  be  cold,  it 
should  be  just  chilled  before  allowing  him  to  drink,  or  serious  results  may 
follow. 

Summering  the  Hunter, 

There  still  exists  much  difference  of  opinion  on  this  point,  but  when 
we  consider  that  the  great  object  to  be  attained  is  rest,  it  must  be  evident 
to  all  who  have  seen  horses  at  grass  in  the  summer,  that  the  old  plan  of 
turning  the  hunter  to  grass  is  about  the  very  least  likely  way  to  obtain  it. 
The  ground  is  then  very  hard,  the  sun  hot  and  oppressive,  and  even  in 
the  shade  under  the  trees,  the  horse  is  constantly  tormented  by  flies.  He 
is  never  still,  walking  backwards  and  forwards,  kicking  and  stamping  to 
knock  them  off,  till,  unable  any  longer  to  bear  them,  he  takes  a  mad 
gallop  round  the  field.  This  state  of  things  cannot  be  rest,  but  more 
destructive  to  the  legs  and  feet  than  any  ordinary  amount  of  work.  In 
addition  to  which,  the  horse  gets  big  and  lusty  on  soft  green  food,  all 
which  has  to  be  taken  off  at  the  expense  of  his  legs  and  feet,  before  he  is 
fit  to  go,  and  is  another  very  unsuitable  preparation  for  the  work  required 
of  him  in  the  winter.  The  modern  plan,  the  advantages  of  which  are 
every  year  becoming  more  and  more  apparent,  is,  at  the  end  of  the  hunt- 
ing season  to  cool  the  hunter,  by  giving  him  a  dose  of  physic  and  then 
gradually  taking  off  his  clothing.  At  the  end  of  a  month  he  may  be 
turned  into  a  large  cool  box  or  shed,  have  from  two  to  three  quarterns  of 
corn  a  day,  according  to  his  constitution,  with  green  meat  in  sufficient 
quantities  to  act  as  a  natural  alterative  and  tonic  to  his  system  and  get 
him  fresh,  but  not  fat  and  out  of  shape,  as  is  too  often  the  case.     His  hind 


378  Exercise  and  Work. 


shoes  may  be  taken  off,  and  light  shoes  or  tips  put  on  the  fore  feet,  and 
removed  about  once  a  month.  These  will  prevent  his  feet  getting  broken 
away  and  preserve  them  in  shape.  If  he  require  blistering,  or  has  any 
lumps  or  bumps  on  his  legs,  from  blows  or  thorns,  to  be  sweated  down, 
it  should  at  once  be  done.  For  this  the  biniodide  of  mercury  will  be 
found  the  best.  At  the  beginning  of  August  at  the  latest,  the  hunter 
may  be  taken  up,  his  legs  and  feet  will  be  found  to  be  clean  and  cool,  he 
should  have  a  dose  of  physic,  and  begin  steady  exercise  ;  after  which,  if 
the  groom  do  his  duty,  he  will  be  free  from  the  different  complaints  that 
usually  attack  a  horse  summered  in  the  field,  and  when  the  hunting 
season  arrives  he  will  carry  his  master  safely  and  pleasantly  through  runs 
that  will  soon  stop  the  other  for  want  of  real  condition. 

EXERCISE  AND  WORK. 

Unless  the  weather  is  wet  and  bad,  every  horse,  whether  in  a  stall  or 
box,  is  better  for  going  out  every  day. 

The  work  of  a  carriage  horse  does  not  on  an  average  exceed  seven  or 
eight  miles.  They  are  very  often  out  for  three  or  four  hours  in  the  day, 
but  by  far  the  greater  part  of  the  time  they  are  standing  about,  while  the 
occupants  of  the  carriage  are  either  shopping  or  making  calls,  &c.  From 
their  size  and  weight  they  are  generally  unfit  for  long  journeys  and  hard 
work. 

The  work  of  a  hunter  is  to  carry  a  man  to  hounds  ;  and  in  order  to 
render  him  fit  to  do  so  safely  and  well,  he  will  require  a  great  deal  of 
exercise. 

Before  the  commencement  of  the  hunting  season  he  will  require  three 
hours'  steady  walking  and  trotting  exercise,  with  occasional  sweats  and 
strong  gallops  ;  but  afterwards,  supposing  he  is  ridden  to  hounds  three 
days  a  fortnight,  he  will  require  but  little  fast  exercise— from  two  to  three 
hours  a  day  good  steady  walking  will  keep  most  horses  quite  fit. 

To  go  with  stag  hounds,  a  horse  must  be  drawn  rather  finer  than  for 
fox  hounds,  his  work  being  faster,  but  not  so  long  continued.  The  meet  is 
later ;  the  deer  is  uncarted,  and  the  run  begins  at  once,  seldom  lasting 
more  than  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours. 

With  fox  hounds,  on  the  contrary,  the  meet  is  earlier,  and  a  fox  is  often 
not  found  till  after  a  long  draw.  The  run,  from  various  causes — checks, 
bad  scent,  &c,  is  very  seldom  very  fast  or  so  long  as  with  stag  hounds, 
consequently  the  work  of  the  horse  is  not  so  severe  and  distressing. 

On  leaving  hounds,  the  hunter  should  have  some  gruel  and  a  handful 
of  hay  at  the  first  convenient  place  ;  he  may  then,  if  not  fatigued,  be 
ridden  home  at  the  rate  of  six  or  seven  miles  an  hour.  On  reaching  th# 
stable,  he  will  be  washed  and  scraped  as  dry  as  possible,  a  complete  sui 
of  clothing  put  on,  his  legs  bandaged  with  flannel  bandages,  some  chilled 
water  and  moist  food  given  him,  and  left  till  dry.  He  must  then  be 
wiped  over,  dry  clothing  put  on,  his  legs  well  hand-rubbed,  dry  bandages 
put  on,  again  fed  and  watered,  and  set  fair  for  the  night. 

The  fair  average  day's  work  for  a  hack  or  harness  horse  is  nine  or  ten 
miles,  in  which  case  exercise  is  quite  unnecessary.  More  harm  and  injury 
are  done  to  horses  by  the  grooms  when  at  exercise  than  in  any  other  way, 
and  unless  the  man  can  be  fully  depended  upon,  the  less  they  are  exercised 


Clipping  or  Singeing.  379 

the  better.  Where  the  horse  is  only  occasionally  worked,  exercise  is  of 
course  absolutely  necessary,  not  only  to  preserve  him  in  health,  but  to 
keep  him  steady,  and  from  getting  above  himself. 

Clipping  or  Singeing 

Is  one  of  the  greatest  improvements  ever  introduced  into  stable 
management.  It  is  a  blessing  not  only  to  the  horse,  but  to  eveiy  one  who 
uses  and  attends  to  him.  A  horse  clipped  or  singed  will  not  only  do 
double  the  amount  of  work  on  the  same  amount  of  food  that  a  horse  with 
his  natural  winter  coat  will  do,  but  in  the  one  case  he  will  be  fresh, 
cheerful,  and  full  of  vigour  ;  while  in  the  other,  he  will  be  dull,  out  of 
condition,  and  seldom  or  never  dry  and  clean.  I  have  seen  horses 
(hunters  particularly)  that  no  care  or  food  could  get  into  condition  till 
clipped  or  singed,  immediately  change  for  the  better,  and  get  big  in  their 
ivork. 

The  best  time  to  clip  or  singe  a  horse  must  depend  principally  upon 
the  state  of  his  coat.  Some  shed  their  coat  so  much  earlier  than  others, 
while  in  some  horses  it  is  much  thicker  and  coarser.  About  the  end  of 
September  is  the  best  time  for  singeing,  and  three  weeks  or  a  month  later 
for  clipping. 

Clipping  requires  much  practice  and  very  neatly  doing  to  look  well ;  it 
is  far  more  difficult  than  singeing,  and  consequently  is  not  so  frequently 
used.  The  effect  of  both  is  the  same — to  shortern  the  long  rough  winter 
coat  to  the  length  of  the  short  summer  one,  thereby  preventing  that 
extreme  sweating  which  is  always  consequent  on  a  long  winter  coat.  It 
\s  performed  with  scissors  and  a  comb.  The  former  are  generally  curved, 
and  of  various  sizes,  to  suit  the  different  parts  of  the  body  of  the  horse 
for  which  they  are  used. 

Singeing  is  performed  with  a  lamp  made  for  the  purpose,  burning 
naphtha  or  some  spirit  of  the  same  description,  and  which  is  passed  lightly 
over  the  whole  body  till  the  hair  is  reduced  to  the  required  length.  It 
may  be  commenced  as  soon  as  the  winter  coat  is  partly  grown,  and  must 
be  repeated  about  every  ten  days  or  a  fortnight  till  the  coat  is  set  and 
done  growing,  by  which  means  the  coat  will  not  only  be  kept  short  but 
the  hair  will  better  retain  the  natural  colour.  After  Christmas,  about  once 
in  three  weeks  will  generally  be  found  sufficient  to  keep  down  the  long, 
rough  hairs. 

In  some  horses  the  coat  is  of  so  thick,  coarse,  and  woolly  a  nature,  or 
has  been  left  so  long,  it  is  impossible  to  singe  it  without  burning  it  into 
holes,  and  making  the  horse  look  worse  than  before.  In  this  case  he  must 
first  be  clipped  close,  and  then  the  singeing-lamp  run  lightly  over  him  ;  it 
can  then  be  kept  down  by  singeing,  as  in  other  horses,  but  his  colour  will 
be  changed,  as  the  part  exposed,  or  rather  left,  will  be  the  under  part  of 
the  hair  next  the  body,  which  is  always  of  a  different  shade  to  the  top 
hair,  which,  in  horses  that  are  begun  early  and  singed  frequently,  from 
being  never  burnt  quite  down,  retains  its  colour.  After  clipping  and 
singeing,  the  horse  should  have  a  gentle  sweat,  be  well  washed,  rubbed 
dry,  and  well  clothed,  after  which  he  is  fit  and  ready  for  his  usual  work. 

Some  few  very  well-bred  horses  have  in  winter  so  fine  a  coat  that  beyond 
removing  the  few  long,  ragged  hairs  about  their  flanks  and  quarters,  no 
singeing  is  necessary. 


3S0        Shoeing. — Tricks  and  Vices  io  which  Horses  arc  liable. 


Shoeing. 

Several  different  plans  have  at  various  times  been  suggested  for 
shoeing  the  horse,  but  none  have  as  yet  superseded  that  in  general  use,  all 
the  others  having  one  or  more  great  disadvantages.  The  horse  must  be 
shod  according  to  his  size  and  the  amount  of  work  he  has  to  perform. 
The  shoes  ought  to  last  at  least  three  weeks  or  a  month,  as  it  is  detri- 
mental to  the  feet  to  have  them  removed  oftener  than  once  in  three  weeks  ; 
while  on  the  other  hand,  they  should  never  be  on  more  than  a  month 
without  removing.  Care  must  be  taken  that,  except  where  the  horse  has 
very  strong  feet,  the  horn  is  never  cut  away  when  shod ;  all  that  is 
necessary  is  to  have  the  rough,  ragged  parts  removed  and  the  foot  just 
rasped  round  the  toe.  If  this  were  well  attended  to,  there  would  not  be 
so  many  lame  horses  ;  as,  when  left  to  themselves,  farriers  invariably  cut 
away  more  horn  at  each  shoeing  than  will  grow  before  the  horse  has  to 
be  shod  again,  consequently  they  have  but  little  left  to  hold  the  nails  and 
bear  the  weight  of  the  horse. 

TRICKS  AND  VICES  TO  WHICH  HORSES  ARE  LIABLE, 

some  of  which  arise  from  fear  and  nervousness,  and  others  from  vice 
or  from  improper  breaking.  All  vicious  and  nervous  horses  should  be 
avoided  by  all  who  do  not  thoroughly  understand  them.  Of  these  rearing 
is  the  most  dangerous,  as  a  fall  over  backwards  often  leads  to  fatal 
results  to  the  rider.  A  horse  may  rear  occasionally  from  fear,  but  it  more 
generally  proceeds  from  vice.  Several  plans  and  bits  have  been  suggested 
to  cure  rearers,  but  all  are  attended  with  more  or  less  danger  to  both  horse 
and  man.  They  are  best  left  to  rough-riders,  and  those  who  thoroughly 
understand  the  management  of  vicious  horses,  as  nothing  but  time  and 
work  will  cure  them. 

Kicking 

is  another  dangerous  vicious  habit.  Like  rearing,  it  may  be  cured  by 
those  who  thoroughly  understand  horses  ;  but  even  when  perfectly  quiet 
and  manageable  in  their  hands,  such  horses  are  never  to  be  trusted  with 
less  experienced  persons. 

Running  Away 
is  another  very  dangerous  fault.  It  may  arise  from  vice  or  from  the 
horse  having  been  at  some  time  very  seriously  alarmed.  In  the  former 
case,  a  very  sharp  bit  and  great  care  may  prevent  it ;  but  in  the  latter, 
when  the  horse  again  becomes  alarmed,  nothing  will  stop  him,  as  he  is 
for  the  time  in  a  state  of  madness. 

Bucking  or  Plunging 

is  another  dangerous  habit.  Sometimes  it  arises  from  vice  and  some- 
times only  from  freshness,  the  horse  being  above  himself  from  want  of 
work ;  in  the  latter  case  it  is  soon  cured  by  putting  him  to  daily  steady 
work. 

Jibbing 
either   in   saddle   or   harness    is    a  very  dangerous  vice,  and  is  always 
the   result  of  bad  temper.      In  saddle  the  horse  rears,  kicks,  and  rubs 
the  rider  against  anything  in  his  way.     He  will  go  anywhere  and  rush 


Shying. — Harness  for  Saddle  Horses.  381 

anywhere  but  in  the  direction  in  which  he  is  wanted  to  go.  A  good  thrash- 
ing will  sometimes  cure  him,  but  it  is  not  always  easy  to  do  it,  as  the  horse 
invariably  jibs  in  the  most  awkward  and  dangerous  places  in  which  to  fight 
him.  In  harness  the  jibber  will  not  start,  he  runs  back,  and  if  whipped 
or  punished  will  plunge  and  throw  himself  down.  Such  animals  are  quite 
unfitted  for  private  use. 

Shying. 

This  bad  habit  may  arise  from  timidity,  defective  eyesight,  or  bad 
temper.  If  from  timidity  it  can  only  be  overcome  by  gentle  usage  and 
allowing  the  horse  to  pass  the  object  without  taking  any  notice  of  his  fear 
beyond  patting  and  encouraging  him  ;  to  chastise  him  is  worse  than  use- 
less and  senseless.  If  it  arise  from  defective  vision,  it  will  be  incurable, 
as  it  will  be  impossible  for  the  animal  to  see  objects  otherwise  than 
through  a  distorted  medium.  If  it  arise  from  vice,  which  is  frequently  the 
case,  the  horse  must  be  made  firmly  but  temperately  to  pass  the  object  at 
which  he  shies  ;  having  passed  it,  continue  the  ride,  do  not  return  and 
pass  it  again  and  again,  as  that  only  irritates  him,  and  when  he  finds  he 
is  mastered,  he  will  daily  improve. 

Most  of  the  above  defects  and  vicious  habits,  if  not  absolutely  caused 
by  bad  and  injudicious  treatment  and  breaking,  are  often  increased  by  it ; 
nor  is  this  to  be  wondered  at,  when  we  consider  the  class  of  men  who  are 
generally  employed  to  break  young  horses,  their  roughness,  ignorance, 
and  often  drunkenness.  They  break  them  all  in  the  same  way  without 
any  reference  to  their  different  and  peculiar  tempers  and  dispositions, 
whereas  a  little  care  and  thought  would  check  and  frequently  prevent 
faults  and  defects,  which,  in  some  cases,  become  incurable  and  highly 
dangerous,  and  render  the  horse  comparatively  unsaleable. 

There  are  many  other  minor  faults,  too  numerous  to  mention  here, 
most  of  which  are  capable  of  cure,  or,  at  any  rate,  of  great  amelioration 
in  the  hands  of  a  good  horseman  or  coachman,  but  the  less  experienced 
will  do  well  to  purchase  only  such  horses  as  are  steady  and  suitable  for 
their  work. 

HARNESS  FOR  SADDLE  HORSES. 

These  consist  of  saddles,  bridles,  breast-plates  and  martingales. 

Saddles  may  be  had  of  almost  any  size  or  weight,  to  suit  the  rider,  one 
of  twelve  or  fourteen  pounds  is  about  the  average  weight.  They  may  be  made 
with  either  plain  or  padded  flaps,  according  to  the  seat  and  fancy  of  the 
rider.  Some  prefer  the  former,  and  others  the  latter.  For  the  generality 
of  riders  there  cannot  be  a  doubt  that  the  padded  flaps  are  by  far  the 
better,  as  they  keep  the  knee  more  steadily  in  the  proper  place,  prevent 
the  leg  flying  backwards  and  forwards  if  the  horse  jumps  or  plunges  ; 
while  in  hunting  they  are  of  a  very  material  assistance  in  taking  a  drop 
jump,  and  also  in  steadying  and  recovering  a  horse  when  blundering  or 
falling  at  a  fence.  The  plain  flaps  have  perhaps  a  smarter  appearance, 
and  a  clever  horseman  may  be  able  to  ride  as  well  on  them  as  on  the 
padded  flaps,  but  that  is  almost  all  that  can  be  said  for  them. 

The  saddle  should  be  of  sufficient  length  and  breadth  that  the  weight 
of  the  rider  may  be  pretty  equally  distributed  over  it,  or  the  back  of  the 
horse  will  suffer,  and  saddle  galls  be  the  result.  Every  hunting  and  riding 


;S2 


Harness  for  Saddle  Horses. 


man  knows,  from  experience,  how  difficult  and  tedious  it  is  to  get  a  back 

right  after  being  once  galled. 

The  stirrups  should  not  be  small,  for,  in  the  event  of  a  fall,  the  foot  is 

more  likely  to   hang  in  them. 

All    well-made     saddles     have 

spring  bars,  which  should  be  oc- 
casionally oiled,  that  they  may 

work   easily,   and    release    the 

stirrup-leather    should   such  an 

accident    occur.      The    stirrup- 
leather  should  be  of  the  best, 

close  and  strong,  not  too  heavy, 

or  it  will  look  clumsy. 

Every  saddle  requires    two 

girths — which  may  either  be  of 

the  ordinary  kind  of  the  same 

width,  with  a  buckle  at  each 
end,   or    one    broad   with    two 
buckles   at  each   end,  which  is 
put  on  first,  and  a  second,  about 
half  the  width  only,  over  it,  with 
one  buckle  at  each  end.     The 
latter,      called 
the  Fitzwilliam 
girth,    is     the 
better       and 
stronger    for 
hunting. 

After  use,  the 
lining  of  the 
saddle  must  be 
thoroughly 
dried  in  the  sun, 
or  before  the 
fire,  and  then 
well  brushed, 
which  will  keep 
it  soft  and  clean. 

This  is  particularly  necessary  with  side-saddles.  It  is  for  want  of  this 
care  and  attention  that  so  many  horses  have  sore  backs.  When  dirty,  the 
saddle  must  be  sponged  clean,  but  not  made  more  wet  than  is  absolutely 
necessary  ;  after  which,  a  little  soft  soap  rubbed  on  will  preserve  the  leather 
soft  and  pliable,  and  prevent  it  cracking. 

In  choosing  a  saddle,  go  to  a  first-rate  maker  ;  he  may  be  a  little  more 
expensive,  but  you  will  get  a  good  article,  that  will  wear  three  times  as 
long  as  an  inferior  one,  will  fit  the  generality  of  horses,  will  never  get  out 
of  form,  and  will  look  well  to  the  last.  The  price,  complete,  will  be  about 
6  guineas  ;  that  of  a  side-saddle,  about  10  guineas. 

The  Breast-plate  or  Hunting-plate 

is  used  to  keep  the  saddle  in  its  place  when  hunting.      It  is  also  of 
great  service  on  horses  with  short  back-ribs,  to  prevent  the  saddle  workincr 


The  Martingale.— The  Bridle.  3  8 3 

back,  which  it  is  very  likely  to  do.  Both  on  the  road  and  in  the  field  no 
lady  should  ride  without  one,  as  it  will  keep  the  side-saddle  securely  in 
its  place,  and  prevent  it  turning  round  should  the  girths  get  loosened,  or 
one  break. 

The  Martingale 

is  used  to  steady  the  horse's  head,  and  keep  it  in  its  proper  place. 

It  is  generally  used  on  loose  weak-necked  horses,  and  though  of  service 
in  the  hands  of  the  experienced,  it  is  often  dangerous  when  used  by  others, 
as  being  apt  to  catch  on  the  bit  or  buckles  of  the  bridle,  and  so  cause 
serious  accidents. 

The  Bridle. 

There  is  a  great  variety  of  bits  suitable  for  different  descriptions  and 
tempers  of  horses,  but  it  is  impossible  to  describe  them  all  in  so  limited  a 
space.  They  all  belong  to  one  of  two  classes— the  snaffle  or  the  curb,  and 
are  of  different  degrees  of  severity  and  power. 

The  snaffle  is  a  piece  of  steel  with  a  joint  in  the  middle  ;  it  may  be 
smooth  and  plain,  twisted,  or  double-jointed.  The  smooth  snaffle  is  the 
mildest  form  of  bit  there  is,  and,  except  just  for  exercise,  few  horses  ride 
pleasantly  in  one.  The  twisted  bit  is  sharper,  and  if  drawn  quickly  back- 
wards and  forwards  through  the  mouth  is  very  punishing.  The  double- 
jointed  is  the  most  severe ;  it  is  formed  of  two  plain  snaffles  one  above 
the  other  ;  but  the  joints  in  each  not  being  opposite  each  other,  cause  a 
sharper  and  more  narrow  pressure  on  the  tongue  and  lower  jaw.  Very 
few  horses  ride  well  and  pleasantly  in  a  snaffle  of  any  kind,  as  they  all 
cause  a  horse  to  raise  his  head  and  open  his  mouth,  to  take  the  pressure 
off  his  tongue.  In  addition  to  these  there  are  the  chain-snaffle,  which 
is  a  very  light  bit,  and  the  gag,  used  for  horses  that  get  their  heads 
down. 

The  curb-bit  is  a  lever  that,  by  means  of  a  curb-chain,  acts  upon  the 
lower  jaw,  and  may  be  made  very  easy  or  very  severe  according  to  the 
length  of  the  cheek  or  leverage,  and  the  height  of  the  port  or  arch  in  the 
centre  of  the  mouth-piece.  It  is  very  seldom  used  singly,  but  in  conjunc- 
tion with  some  kind  of  snaffle,  when  it  forms  a  double-rein  bridle,  and  is 
by  far  the  most  useful  bit.  All  horses  go  better  in  it,  when  properly 
handled,  than  in  any  other,  as  by  lengthening  or  shortening  the  curb- 
chain,  and  taking  up  or  dropping  the  bit  in  the  mouth,  it  can  be  made 
either  less  or  more  severe,  to  suit  most  horses. 

The  Pelham  is  a  curb  and  snaffle  in  one  ;  it  is  a  curb-bit  with  a  joint 
in  the  middle,  instead  of  a  port.  It  forms  a  double-rein  bridle,  and  is 
very  light  and  easy. 

The  Hanoverian  is  of  the  same  description,  but  with  a  port  and  a 
joint  on  each  side  of  it.  The  mouth-piece  is  covered  with  small  rollers. 
This  forms  a  double-rein  bridle  of  great  power  and  severity,  requiring 
great  care  and  judgment. 

Like  saddles,  the  bridles  should  be  of  first-rate  material  and  work- 
manship ;  the  bits  sewn  on  to  the  head-pieces  and  reins,  as  being  much 
neater  and  lighter  than  the  buckles.  The  leather  must  be  kept  clean  and 
pliable  with  soft  soap,  and  the  bits  clean  and  bright  with  silver-sand  and 
oil.  Price  of  a  snaffle  bridle  about  20s.,  and  of  a  double-rein  bridle  28 s. 
to  305*.,  according  to  the  sort  of  bit  required. 


3§4 

MODERN  CARRIAGES 

are  of  various  sorts  and  sizes,  from  the  small  pony-chaise  to  the  heavy 
family  coach  or  landau.  They  should  be  made  of  the  very  best  materials 
and  purchased  of  first-rate  builders,  to  ensure  wearing  well.  Nothing 
looks  much  worse  than  any  carriage  of  a  cheap,  common  description. 
They  are  badly  made,  badly  hung,  and  badly  painted,  and  consequently 
soon  wear  out.  If  wanted  to  be  sold,  no  one  cares  to  buy  them  except  for 
a  very  trifling  sum  ;  while  any  carriage  by  a  first-rate  maker  will  always 
look  and  wear  well  as  long  as  it  will  hold  together,  and  will  fetch  a  good 
price  if  offered  for  sale. 


The  Double  Brougham. 

A 


The  Single  Brougham. 


Modem  Carriages. 


335 


Except  in  the  country  and  by  elderly  people,  the  heavy  coach  and 
landau  are  now  seldom  used,  being  superseded  by  carriages  of  a  lighter 
and  more  elegant  description. 

Double  Broughams 

are  generally  drawn  by  a  pair  of  horses  ;  they  have  two  seats  and  hold 
four  inside,  but  are  more  comfortable  with  three.  They  vary  in  size, 
some  being  larger  and  heavier  than  others  ;  average  price  200/.,  according 
to  style,  finish,  &c. 

Single  Broughams 
have  but  one  seat  and  hold  two  inside  ;  they  may  be  drawn  by  either  one 
horse  or  two  smaller  ones.     When  really  well  appointed  they  are  very 
stylish  carriages.    Average  price  160/. 

The  Waggonette 
is  an  open  carriage  opening  behind  with  a  door ;  it  will  hold  either  four 
or  six.    II  generally  full  it  will  require  a  pair  of  horses  to  draw  it  comfort 


The  Canoe  Waggonette. 
C  C 


3%6 


Modern  Carriages. 


ably.  It  is  a  useful  family  carnage,  and  is  often  made  with  a  hood  to 
take  on  and  off  to  suit  all  weathers.  Price  from  80/.  to  100/.,  according 
to  size,  &c. 

The  Canoe  Waggonette 

is  a  variation  of  that  in  general  use.  The  entrance  is  on  each  side  be- 
hind the  box,  it  will  hold  six,  who  sit  in  a  semicircle  round  the  back  from 
one  door  to  the  other.  It  is  a  comfortable  carriage,  but  does  not  seem  to 
take  with  the  public. 

The  Victoria 

is  the  most  modern  and  stylish  of  all  light  open  carriages.  They  are 
intended  to  carry  two  only,  but  are  occasionally  made  on  a  larger  scale, 


The  Victoria. 


The  Park-driving  Phaeton. 


Modem  Carriages. 


3S7 


with  two  seats,  to  carry  four.  In  the  latter  case  they  require  a  pair  of 
horses.    Price  from  120/.  to  150/, 

The  Park- driving  Phaeton 

or  T  cart  is  a  light  and  stylish  carriage  for  one  or  two  horses.  It  is 
very  fashionable,  and  has  quite  superseded  the  old  buggy  and  gig  in 
general  use,  as  being  safer  in  case  the  horse  slips  and  falls.  Price  from 
100/.  to  120/. 

The  Skeleton  Phaeton 

is  the  lightest  four-wheel  carriage  there  is  ;  it  is  not  often  used  except 
where  great  lightness  is  required.  To  look  well  it  must  be  very  neatly 
and  stylishly  built.     Price  about  60/. 

The  Gig, 

or  Buggy,  as  it  is  generally  called,  is  a  two-wheeled  carriage  for  one 


The  Gig, 

horse.  Of  late  years  they  have  gone  very  much  out  of  fashion,  particularly 
in  town,  but  are  still  used  in  the  country.     Price  about  60/. 

The  Dog  Cart 

is  a  two-wheeled  carriage,  to  carry  either  two  or  four  ;  the  seats  are 
placed  back  to  back.  They  are  very  useful  in  the  country  to  take  a  party 
to  cover,  or  on  shooting  and  fishing  excursions,  as  they  are  strong,  have  a 
large  boot  for  dogs,  guns,  and  fishing  tackle,  and  follow  well.  They 
require  to  be  very  nicely  hung  and  properly  balanced  or  they  are  very 
uncomfortable,  particularly  in  the  back  seat.     Price  60/.  to  80/. 

There  are  many  other  sorts  and  descriptions  of  carriages  for  horses 
and  ponies,  from  the  cheap  basket  carriage  at  20/.  up  to  almost  any  price. 

All  carriages  should  be  washed  as  soon  as  they  come  in  from  use  and 
while  the  dirt  is  wet,  as,  if  allowed  to  dry  on,  the  paint  and  varnish  soon 
become  scratched  and  worn,  as  few  coachmen  will  take  the  trouble 
thoroughly  to  wet  the  mud  again  before  trying  to  remove  it,  which  seri- 
ously injures  the  carriage,  by  taking  all  the  gloss  off  the  paint,  &c. 

C   C    2 


388 


Cleaning  Harness,  &>c. 


The  dirt  must  first  be  well  washed  off  every  part  of  the  carriage  with 
plenty  of  water;  the  whole  should  then  be  dried  with  a  sponge  and  leather, 
then  any  plate  or  brass  should  be  wiped  dry  and  clean,  but  need  not  be 


The  Dog- cart. 

polished  until  just  before  the  carriage  is  required  for  use,  as  it  will  get 
dull  or  tarnished  by  standing  in  the  coachhouse.  The  inside  and  cushions 
should  also  be  brushed,  and  if  the  coachhouse  be  damp  the  latter  must  be 
taken  into  the  harness-room  and  be  kept  dry. 

Cleaning  Harness,  &c. 

Both  single  and  double  harness  should  be  of  the  best  leather  and 
workmanship. 

The  harness  for  carriage  horses  of  all  sorts  is  too  well  known  to  need 
repetition  here ;  the  only  difference  is  that  some  prefer  it  very  neat,  and 
only  use  what  is  absolutely  necessary,  while  others  like  it  covered  with 
plate  or  brass,  and  use  as  much  as  they  can  possibly  get  on  the  horse. 
The  price  will  vary  according  to  the  amount  of  plate  or  brass-work  on  it. 
A  set  of  single  harness  will  cost  from  12/.  to  16/.,  or  even  more  ;  and  a  set 
of  double  harness  from  25/.  to  3^/.  Care  must  always  be  taken  that  the 
collars  are  deep  enough,  otherwise  the  horse's  shoulders  will  suffer.  The 
proper  way  to  fit  a  collar  is  to  hold  the  horse's  head  up  as  high  as  he 
usually  carries  it  when  going,  and  then  leave  room  to  put  the  hand  in 
comfortably. 

Many  horses,  particularly  those  defective  in  the  wind,  go  better  in  a 
pipe  collar.  On  coming  in  from  use,  the  bits,  ferrets,  &c,  should  first  be 
removed,  then  the  harness,  if  dirty,  should  be  carefully  washed  clean,  but 
not  made  more  wet  than  is  absolutely  necessary,  then  dried  in  the  harness- 
room,  but  not  put  near  the  fire ;  when  dry  it  should  be  thoroughly  done 
over  with  some  harness  paste  or  polish,  and  well  brushed  bright.  The 
bits  and  ferrets,  &c,  are  also  cleaned  and  polished  and  everything  is  ready 
for  use. 

Duties. — The  duty  on  every  horse  is  ioj.  6d. ;  on  every  carnage  with 
four  wheels,  2/.  2s. ;  on  every  carriage  with  two  wheels,  i$s. ;  on  every 
man-servant,  15J. 


3^9 

THE      DAIRY. 


Observations  on  the  Dairy. — A  dairy  of  cows,  when  well  selected  and 
managed,  is  no  doubt  a  source  of  profitable  employment  where  there  is 
plenty  of  provision  and  accommodation  for  such  stock  :  particular  atten- 
tion, however,  to  everything  relating  to  their  food,  shelter,  treatment,  and 
the  management  of  their  produce  in  the  dairy,  is  necessary  to  ensure 
success.  The  master's  eye  wants  to  be  often  looking  on,  to  see  that  all 
persons  employed  are  kindly  disposed,  and  conduct  their  work  in  a  re- 
gular, cleanly,  and  orderly  manner.  Unkind  treatment,  improper  or 
irregular  feeding,  or  unskilful  milking  of  cows,  would  either  of  them  be 
detrimental  to  the  success  of  the  undertaking. 

Situation,  and  how  built. — A  building  for  a  dairy  should  be  situated 
in  a  shady  place,  out  of  the  reach  of  impure  air,  and  have  a  northern  or 
eastern  aspect.  If  built  with  bricks  and  covered  with  tiles,  the  walls 
should  be  not  less  than  nine  inches  thick,  if  fourteen  inches  it  would  be 
better  ;  the  roof  should  be  ceiled,  and  the  windows  latticed,  glazed,  and 
provided  with  sliding  inside  shutters  for  keeping  out  excessive  heat  or 
cold,  otherwise  the  proper  temperature  of  the  dairy  cannot  be  regulated 
in  summer  or  winter. 

Supposing  a  dairy  to  be  built  for  a  dozen  cows,  it  would  be  necessary 
to  divide  it  into  three  rooms,  two  below  and  one  above — viz.,  the  milk- 
room  or  dairy,  the  wash-house,  and  the  cheese  chamber.  The  dairy  for 
milk  alone  ;  the  other  lower  room  for  butter  and  cheesemaking,  and  for 
washing  and  scalding  the  dairy  utensils  ;  the  upper  chamber  for  cheeses. 

Ventilation. — It  would  be  as  well  to  have  two  or  three  air-bricks  in- 
serted in  the  northern  wall  of  the  milk-room  some  distance  apart,  about  a 
foot  from  the  ground,  and  the  same  number  in  the  opposite  side  wall, 
about  a  foot  from  the  ceiling.  If  the  north  side  air-bricks  were  left  open 
during  the  summer  months,  it  would  be  found  that  a  current  of  cool  air 
would  come  in  and  lessen  the  temperature,  as  the  warm  air  would  ascend 
and  pass  through  the  upper  air-bricks.  In  the  winter  all  the  air-bricks 
should  be  closed,  as  quite  sufficient  ventilation  could  be  obtained  from 
the  windows. 

Size. — The  size  of  the  milk-room  should  not  be  less  than  fifteen  feet 
square,  and  the  other  room  quite  as  large,  with  chimney  and  copper 
placed  at  a  distance  from  the  dairy  or  milk-room  ;  and  it  would  be  best 
if  entered  by  a  passage,  and  if  the  door  were  placed  so  that  it  did  not 
open  into  the  milk-room,  as  the  heat  and  steam  should  be  entirely  ex- 
cluded. The  floor  of  both  rooms  should  be  paved  with  bricks  or  flags, 
with  a  slight  incline  towards  the  drain,  which  might  either  run  down  the 
centre,  or  be  placed  at  one  side.  The  water  must  either  be  laid  on  or 
the  wash-house  provided  with  a  pump. 

Shelving. — Wide  shelves  about  thirty  inches  from  the  floor  would  be 
required  to  hold  full  double  the  number  of  milk-pans  that  there  are  cows 


39°  Different  kinds  of  Cows. 


besides  shelves  for  cream-pots,  pans,  and  other  articles  belonging  to  the 
dairy. 

Utensils. — The  utensils  required  where  butter  and  cheese  are  made 
are  a  churn,  a  butter-stand,  milk  pans,  pails,  bowls,  strainers,  coolers, 
dishes,  cheese-tubs,  vats,  girth  butter-boards,  markers,  brushes,  cloths, 
presses,  thermometer  and  weighing  machine,  and  sundry  pots  and  pans, 
the  cost  of  which  would  be  about  20/. 

Cleanliness. — A  scrupulous  attention  to  cleanliness  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary. All  the  pots  and  pans,  and  indeed  everything  that  comes  into 
contact  with  milk,  butter,  cream,  or  cheese,  must  first  be  well  washed, 
scrubbed,  and  rinsed  with  cold  water,  and  scalded  before  using  a  second 
time  ;  for  unless  the  strictest  cleanliness  be  practised,  the  produce  of  the 
dairy  cannot  be  good. 

Different  kinds  of  Cows. 

The  large  kinds  of  cows  are  generally  chosen  where  there  are  rich 
fertile  pastures  ;  and  no  doubt  the  dominant  breed  throughout  the  country, 
both  for  indoor  and  outdoor  feeding,  is  the  Shorthorn.  This  breed  is 
divided  into  several  varieties — the  Holderness,  Northumberland,  Durham, 
Yorkshire,  &c.  The  Yorkshire  is  thought  to  be  the  best  for  the  dairy. 
These  fine  animals  appear  to  have  descended  from  the  Teeswater  breed. 
There  are  a  great  many  varieties  of  the  large  cows  in  this  country  that 
have  been  bred  by  Shorthorn  bulls.  An  excellent  cross  is  common  in  the 
Eastern  Counties  between  the  best  Suffolk  cows  and  Shorthorn  animals 
of  the  best  blood.  They  are  good  milkers,  harmless,  and  very  quiet,  and 
consequently  much  approved  of  for  pasture  feeding.  Cows  of  this  breed 
will  produce  from  ten  to  twelve  pounds  of  butter  per  week  each,  when 
well  managed  ;  and  for  butter  dairying  the  quantity  and  quality  of  cream 
produced  is  of  greater  importance  than  the  quantity  of  milk. 

Cheshire  Cows. — The  Cheshire  dairy  farms  are  mostly  stocked  with  a 
mixed  breed  of  cows,  between  the  Cheshire,  Lancashire,  and  other  crosses. 

Lci7icashire. — The  Lancashire  are  distinguished  by  their  long  horns, 
deep  fore-quarters,  and  long  hair.  They,  as  well  as  other  long-horned 
cows,  are  said  to  give  richer  milk  than  polled  cows,  but  not  so  much  of 
it.  Besides  the  milking  properties  of  a  breed  of  cows,  their  hardy  quali- 
ties must  be  thought  of,  where  they  are  exposed  to  bleak  situations  ;  and 
no  doubt  the  long-horned  Lancashire  and  other  coarse -skinned  animals 
are  the  most  hardy. 

Devons. — The  middle-horned  breed  of  cows  may  include  the  Devons, 
the  Herefords,  and  the  Sussex.  The  two  latter  are  the  largest,  but  neither 
of  them  excel  the  best  Shorthorn  in  their  produce  of  milk.  The  Devons 
are  of  a  light-red  colour,  with  yellowish  coloured  horns,  well  made,  and 
their  milk  is  rich — or  we  should  not  have  such  rich  Devonshire  cream. 
Many  gentlemen  prefer  this  breed  for  a  herd  in  their  parks. 

He?yfo)'d. — The  Hereford,  next  in  size  to  the  Shorthorn  breed,  is  a 
fine  animal  and  a  pretty  good  one  for  dairy  stock,  but  better  perhaps  for 
fattening  purposes.  The  Sussex  do  not  differ  much  from  the  Hereford  ; 
they  are  both  of  a  darker  colour  than  the  Devons,  with  horns  of  a  mo- 
derate length,  turning  up  at  the  points,  having  wide  hips  and  smallish 
bones.     They  are  middling  cows  for  the  dairy. 


Different  kinds  oj  Cows.  391 


Galloway. — The  polled  Galloways  are  very  nice  animals  for  grazing 
purposes  ;  they  are  mostly  black,  well  proportioned  in  form,  and  yield  an 
average  quantity  of  milk,  when  carefully  used,  for  dairy  purposes. 

Highland. — The  Highland  are  not  thought  to  be  better  milk  producers 
than  the  Galloways,  but  more  hardy. 

Ayrshire. — The  Ayrshire  cow  is  a  favourite  in  some  places,  but  not 
preferred  by  cow-keepers  in  general.  It  is,  however,  a  good  animal  for 
the  dairy,  and  almost  equal  to  the  Alderney  in  the  richness  of  its  milk.  It 
has  fine  wrinkled  horns,  is  larger  than  the  Alderney  and  somewhat  like  it 
in  appearance.     Its  colour  is  usually  red  and  white. 

Shetland. — The  Shetland  cattle  are  very  small,  and  inferior  in  shape 
to  those  of  the  Western  Highlands.  They  are  hardy,  small  consumers 
of  food,  and  yield  about  two  quarts  of  milk  a  day. 

Welsh. — The  Pembrokeshire  cow  is  small  and  hardy.  It  is  fine 
boned,  with  clean  light  head  and  neck,  small  yellow  horn,  good  chine, 
long  round  barrel,  thin  thigh  and  short  fine  legs,  always  in  good  con- 
dition if  tolerably  kept,  and  has  a  rich  wave  in  her  hair  which  ever 
denotes  thriftiness  of  kind.  Its  produce  is  from  five  to  seven  pounds  of 
butter  a  week  during  the  dairy  season. 

Irish. — The  Kerry  cattle,  in  size  and  shape,  resemble  some  of  those 
from  the  Western  Islands,  of  a  high  bred  deer-like  shape,  not  so  broad 
or  so  low  in  the  leg  as  the  native  Highland  Stots.  These  cattle  are  very 
hardy,  being  reared  in  a  country  of  rocks  and  hills.  Their  properties  are 
said  to  be  that  of  giving  the  largest  quantity  of  milk,  which  is  also  of  the 
richest  quality  for  the  amount  of  sustenance  they  require. 

Alderney. — The  little  Alderney  cow  is  a  slender  made  animal,  not 
very  well  shaped,  though  admired  for  its  deer-like  mild  face  and  fine 
bone,  it  is  mostly  of  a  red  and  white  colour  with  a  mottled  face.  The  Al- 
derney gives  the  richest  milk  of  any  kind,  and  some  of  them  have  been 
known  to  produce  ten  and  eleven  pounds  of  butter  a  week  of  the  finest 
quality.    They  are  rather  tender  and  require  to  be  well  housed  in  the  winter. 

Stiffolk. — The  Suffolk  cow  is  believed  to  be  the  best  of  the  polled 
breeds  for  the  dairy  where  the  pastures  are  not  very  rich.  They  are 
quiet,  hardy,  and  suitable  for  upland  fields.  It  is  thought  that  the  Dun 
coloured  originally  descended  from  the  Galloway  ;  they  do  not,  however, 
generally  appear  to  be  so  uniformly  well-shaped  as  the  Galloway,  al- 
though they  have  been  vastly  improved  of  late  years  by  careful  breeders. 
Various  crosses  between  them  and  the  Ayrshire,  and  other  varieties,  have 
increased  the  produce  of  the  dairy  in  many  places  ;  but  it  is  believed 
that  for  large  dairies,  no  cross  is  superior  to  that  of  the  Suffolk  cow  and 
the  Shorthorn  bull. 

Whichever  breed  is  made  choice  of  to  improve  the  stock,  both  male 
and  female  should  be  of  the  best  animals.  By  a  first-class  bull  a  hardy 
well-formed  and  abundant  milk-producing  cow,  is  almost  sure  to  produce 
valuable  calves  to  bring  up  for  the  future  supply  of  the  dairy. 

Price. — The  price  given  of  late  years  for  the  live-stock  of  first-class 
breeders,  has  been  enormous,  hundreds  and  even  thousands  of  pounds 
have  been  given  for  a  single  animal.  It  would  not,  however,  answer  the 
purpose  of  those  who  only  keep  a  dairy  for  profit  to  purchase  very  high 
priced  stock.     Good  cows  may  be  obtained  of  the  large  breeds,  which  a 


392  Different  kinds  of  Cows. 

few  years  ago  cost  20/.,  for  about  28/.  now,  and  there  is  the  same 
difference,  or  nearly  30  per  cent.,  in  the  price  of  all  breeds  of  milch  cows. 

Cost  of  Keep. — Cows  are  large  consumers  of  food  and  should  not  be 
stinted  when  in  milk.  Heifers  will  require  nothing  but  green  food  in  the 
dry  summer  months ;  but  as  the  winter  approaches  they  should  be 
sheltered  in  a  yard  at  night,  and  a  little  fresh  barley  or  oat  straw 
given  them  in  their  cribs  ;  whenever  the  pastures  become  injured  by  frost, 
both  young  and  old  cows  require  improved  food  in  their  sheds.  A  few 
swedish-turnips  or  mangold  roots  should  then  be  given  them,  which,  if 
pulped  and  mixed  with  sweet  chaff  (one-fourth  hay),  would  be  sufficient 
to  keep  them  in  healthy  condition  ;  but  this  applies  only  to  those  that  are 
not  in  milk.  When  within  two  months  of  calving,  all  cows  should  be 
dried,  for  if  not  then  dried  they  will  not  produce  so  much  milk  the  next 
year.  They  should  afterwards  have  their  food  improved  by  an  additional 
weight  of  roots  with  their  chaff,  which  should  be  mixed  in  a  heap  over 
night.  By  the  morning  it  will  be  found  to  have  heated  a  little,  which  im- 
parts a  flavour  that  is  much  relished  by  the  cows. 

Consimiption  of  Food. — As  was  before  remarked,  "  cows  are  large 
consumers  of  food/'  and  no  wonder  that  they  should  require  an  abundance, 
to  enable  them  to  supply  so  rich  a  sustenance  for  mankind,  as  well  as 
to  support  themselves.  Where  there  are  no  good  dry  pastures  to  provide 
them  with  plenty  for  their  summer  keep,  they  would  do  very  well  in  a  proper 
feeding-house  (enclosed  on  the  north  and  south  sides)  with  a  door  at  each 
end,  if  they  were  liberally  supplied  with  green  food,  cut  for  them  and  put 
in  racks  ;  such  as  rye  grass,  clover,  tares,  lucerne,  or  saintfoin.  The  two 
last  grow  best  on  chalky  soils.  Italian  grass  would  be  fit  to  cut  first  in  the 
spring.  It  has  been  found  that  milk  as  abundant  and  butter  quite  as  good 
have  been  produced  by  cows  so  fed,  as  by  those  which  had  the  run  of 
rich  pastures.  But  where  there  are  pastures  it  would  be  well  to  have  the 
cows  housed  in  hot  weather,  when  insects  are  troublesome  ;  or  else  they 
will  be  worried  and  heated  and  unable  to  feed,  and  will  fall  off  in  their 
produce  of  milk. 

Coarse  grass  in  low  meadows  is  thought  by  some  people  to  be  proper 
food  for  milch  cows,  but  it  has  not  been  found  that  the  quantity  or  quality 
of  milk  produced  by  cows  so  fed  is  equal  to  that  of  those  which  are  fed  on 
good  pasture  of  a  less  aqueous  quality. 

A  large  cow  will  consume  a  cwt.  of  green  food  per  day,  which  could 
not  be  valued  at  less  than  sixpence  or  eightpence.  The  general  charge 
for  pasturage  is  from  3^.  6d.  to  4s.  a  week  each. 

When  green  food  is  scarce,  as  it  is  sometimes  at  the  end  of  a  dry 
summer,  a  little  linseed-cake  or  bean-meal,  mixed  with  cut  chaff  (one 
third  hay)  should  be  given  them  to  keep  up  the  produce  of  milk,  lest  part 
of  the  best  season  for  dairying  should  be  lost  by  its  failure. 

It  is  not  good  economy  to  feed  cows  on  much  uncut  hay,  for  they 
would  consume  and  spoil  a  cwt.  a  day,  if  fed  entirely  on  it ;  which  at  the 
rate  of  4/.  a  ton  would  cost  14.S.  a  week  ;  neither  is  it  found  that  any  of 
the  advertised  condiments  are  worth  their  cost.  Much  less  expensive  and 
more  natural  condiments  can  be  made  by  a  mixture  of  bean,  barley,  maize, 
or  linseed  meal,  and  other  produce  of  the  soil,  by  cow-keepers  themselves. 

Milk  Dairies. — When  cows  are  kept  only  for  the  purpose  of  producing 


Different  kinds  of  Cows.  393 


a  large  quantity  of  milk,  brewers'  grains  are  given  them,  with  a  small 
portion  of  hay,  for  ruminating  purposes.  On  this  they  do  tolerably  well, 
but  it  will  be  found  to  their  advantage  if  about  three  or  four  pounds  of 
bean-meal  be  mixed  with  the  grains  for  each  cow  per  day. 

Winter  Food. — In  winter  and  spring,  Swedish  turnips,  mangold,  and 
other  root  crops  would  be  found  more  economical  food  than  the  grains, 
meal,  and  hay  last  mentioned.  A  bushel  of  pulped  roots  mixed  with  about 
fourteen  pounds  of  cut  chaff,  one-third  hay,  and  given  them  twice  a  day, 
would  be  found  sufficient  to  satisfy  a  moderate-sized  cow,  but  they  should 
not  be  stinted  or  confined  to  any  quantity  if  they  are  found  to  require 
more.  Cabbages,  carrots,  and  parsnips  are  very  good  food  for  milch  cows 
if  given  in  moderate  quantities  with  other  food.  It  is  important  that  all 
roots  should  be  freed  from  earth  before  pulping,  or  given  to  the  cows, 
otherwise  it  would  impart  an  unpleasant  flavour  to  the  cream.  When 
cows  are  fed  on  pulped  roots,  with  cut  chaff,  a  peck  or  two  of  malt-dust 
("  combs")  would  be  a  nice  addition,  as  it  would  give  a  zest  to  the  mix- 
ture. A  sufficient  quantity  for  the  whole  herd  should  be  put  into  a  heap 
about  twelve  hours  before  it  would  be  wanted,  when  it  would  be  found  to 
have  acquired  a  little  warmth  and  a  fragrant  smell,  which  would  give  the 
cows  a  greater  relish  for  it. 

A  change  of  green  or  succulent  food  appears  to  promote  the  secretions 
of  the  system,  and  to  give  stimulus  to  their  action.  Such  as  would  in- 
jure the  flavour  of  milk  should  be  avoided.  White  turnips  and  cabbages 
will  do  this,  if  given  without  a  good  supply  of  other  food  with  them. 

London  cow-keepers  do  not  usually  keep  their  cows  longer  than  they 
continue  to  give  milk,  but  when  they  have  been  milked  seven  or  eight 
months,  and  their  milk  falls  off,  they  give  them  an  increase  of  fattening 
food  till  they  are  quite  dry,  when  they  will  have  become  fat  and  fit  for 
the  butcher,  and  fresh  ones  are  bought  to  take  their  places.  The  best 
milkers  are,  however,  in  many  cases  kept  to  come  in  another  year,  if  they 
can  be  accommodated  with  the  run  of  a  strawyard  or  pasture ;  where 
they  might  remain  if  sheltered  from  inclement  weather,  till  near  the  time 
of  their  calving. 

Weaning  Calves. — Where  there  is  accommodation  for  rearing  young 
cow  stock,  the  best  males  and  females  should  be  selected  for  propagating 
a  good  breed.  It  would  not  do,  however,  for  those  who  expect  to  make  a 
profit  by  dairy-farming,  to  purchase  animals  at  the  fabulous  prices  of 
hundreds  and  thousands  of  pounds,  such  as  we  read  of  at  the  sales  of 
first-class  breeders.  Very  excellent  animals  can  be  found  now  of  various 
breeds,  and  calves  chosen  from  the  best  of  them,  though  not  very  high  in 
price,  will  be  as  good  for  dairy  purposes  as  the  most  celebrated  stock.  A 
selection  should  be  carefully  made  from  mothers  which  are  the  best 
milkers,  with  full-size  udders,  wide  rounded  hips,  straight  backs,  and  broad 
chests,  with  small  tapering  legs  ;  and  bulls  with  broad  breast,  projecting 
a  little  before  their  legs,  with  neck  rising  from  their  shoulders,  moderate- 
size  heads,  flat  broad  straight  backs,  well  filled  up  behind  their  shoulders 
and  between  their  ribs  and  hips,  with  small  straight  legs  and  rounded 
bodies.  Large  sunken  bodies  are  generally  brought  on  by  poor  keep. 
Animals  kept  on  straw  and  sedgy  meadows  only,  while  young,  are  usually 
disfigured  by  their  bodies  becoming  unnaturally  protruded. 


394  Different  kinds  of  Cows. 


Watchfulness  required. — When  cows  are  expected  to  calve  (at  the 
end  of  forty  weeks)  they  should  be  carefully  watched  night  and  day,  and 
where  the  weaning  of  the  calf  is  intended,  it  would  be  best  for  them  to 
calve  at  the  end  of  February  or  the  beginning  of  March,  as  they  would 
then  have  the  whole  of  the  grass  season  before  them.  Calves  will  soon 
learn  to  drink  from  a  pail ;  but  it  is  generally  thought  best  to  allow  them 
to  suck  from  their  mothers  for  a  few  days,  while  the  herdsman  milks  on 
the  opposite  side.  The  cow  will  give  down  her  milk  the  better  for  it,  and 
become  reconciled  to  his  milking  her  without  the  calf  afterwards,  if 
treated  with  gentle  kindness. 

The  calf  should  have  new  milk  for  a  fortnight  twice  a  day;  then 
skimmed  milk  mixed  with  oatmeal  or  linseed  meal,  boiled  for  half  an 
hour,  during  another  fortnight  or  three  weeks.  It  will  require  about  two 
gallons  a  day  till  it  begins  to  eat  well,  which  it  will  do  when  it  is  five  or 
six  weeks  old,  if  some  sweet  hay  be  given  it  daily,  or  some  hay  chaff  with 
pulped  mangold  or  swedes  mixed  with  it.  Skimmed  milk,  or  whey  mixed 
with  a  little  linseed  meal,  will  then  do  for  its  drink,  which  may  be  con- 
tinued till  it  is  twelve  weeks  old,  when  it  would  live  very  well  on  a  pasture 
or  on  natural  food.  Some  people  wean  calves  almost  entirely  on  linseed  tea. 

Summer  Treatment. — When  the  weather  is  warm,  and  the  flies  become 
troublesome,  they  ought  not  to  be  left  in  their  pasture  without  shade  or  shel- 
ter. If  well  shaded  during  the  heat  of  the  day,  and  supplied  with  pure  water 
and  some  green  food  in  their  cribs,  they  will  most  likely  continue  to  thrive  ; 
but  if  left  to  be  tormented  with  flies,  huddled  together  in  a  corner  of  their 
pasture,  or  in  a  wet  ditch,  they  will  probably  become  unhealthy.  It  may 
here  be  remarked  that  on  first  leaving  the  cow-house,  the  calf  should  be 
confined  in  a  safe  place  in  the  yard  or  elsewhere  for  a  day  or  two,  until  it 
becomes  accustomed  to  the  bright  light  of  day,  as  on  its  first  introduction 
it  appears  almost  blind,  and  would  be  likely  to  run  into  danger. 

A  change  of  pasture  now  and  then  is  desirable,  but  calves  should  not 
be  put  into  low  wet  meadows,  as  it  is  generally  in  such  situations  that 
they  get  diseased  with  a  husky  cough.*  As  the  autumn  approaches  the 
grass  will  be  less  nutritious,  it  will  then  be  necessary  to  give  them  some 
food  in  their  yard  or  shed,  such  as  pulped  roots  mixed  with  cut  straw 
chaff,  every  night.  A  little  salt  mixed  with  their  chaff  is  a  good  thing, 
and  is  believed  by  some  people  to  prevent  "  hove." 

When  frost  begins  they  should  not  be  turned  into  their  pasture  till  nine 
or  ten  o'clock,  or  till  it  disappears.  Their  racks,  cribs,  and  mangers,  or 
whatever  they  feed  or  drink  from,  should  constantly  be  kept  clean,  and 
the  herdsman  should  be  urged  to  feed  and  water  them  regularly,  and  to 
keep  them  well  supplied  with  dry  bedding. 

As  winter  approaches  they  would  be  best  confined  to  the  yard,  where, 
if  well  sheltered  and  fed  regularly  with  a  proper  quantity  of  pulped  roots, 
turnips,  or  mangold,  mixed  with  sweet  straw  chaff  sprinkled  with  a  little  salt, 
they  will  thrive  fast  enough  till  the  spring,  when  they  can  return  to  their 
pastures,  or  be  provided  with  green  food  ;  they  should  be  carefully  treated 
as  before  recommended.     The  upland  pastures  are  best  for  young  stock. 


*  Called  hove  or  hoove.     See  "  Diseases  of  Cows." 


Diseases  of  Cows.  395 


Some  people  allow  heifers  to  have  calves  when  only  two  years  old, 
but  they  seldom  (if  ever)  make  such  good  cows  as  those  that  are  left  free 
till  they  are  three  years  of  age. 

Young  stock  brought  up  as  here  recommended  will  generally  thrive 
fast,  and  be  free  from  disease. 

Diseases  of  Cows. 

It  is  indispensably  necessary  to  have  a  vigilant  experienced  herdsman 
at  the  time  that  cows  are  expected  to  calve.  Many  a  young  heifer  has 
been  spoiled  for  want  of  attention  at  this  critical  period.  When  their 
time  of  forty  weeks  has  expired  they  should  be  watched  night  and  day, 
no  matter  whether  old  or  young.* 

They  ought  not  to  have  been  kept  in  too  high  condition,  as  in  such 
cases  they  would  be  subject  to  milk  or  puerperal  fever  ;  especially  if  they 
should  calve  in  hot  weather,  or  have  a  protracted  labour. 

When  fever  comes  on  they  generally  refuse  food,  and  are  restless,  and 
their  udders  become  hard  and  distended.  To  prevent  this,  in  hot  weather 
and  when  cows  are  in  too  fat  a  condition,  it  would  be  best  to  have  them 
bled  about  a  week  or  ten  days  before  the  time  they  are  expected  to  calve, 
and  also  give  them  a  dose  or  two  of  Epsom  salts.  About  five  pints  of 
blood  may  be  taken  from  a  large  cow,  and  four  from  a  smaller  ;  and  the 
Epsom  salts  should  be  given  in  one  pound  doses,  and  thoroughly  melted, 
with  an  ounce  or  two  of  ginger.  Probably  it  would  be  best  to  give  one 
dose  a  few  days  before  calving,  and  the  other  a  few  days  after. 

When  this  fever  comes  on,  the  udders  become  hard  and  glutted,  and 
one  quarter  of  the  udder  is  generally  worse  than  the  others,  and  becomes 
inflamed  with  garget.  This  can  be  subdued  only  by  an  early  stripping  of 
the  milk  from  the  quarter,  and  by  a  very  frequent  bathing  and  rubbing 
with  warm  water  and  soft  soap.  Want  of  proper  attention  during  this 
state  occasions  the  affected  quarter  to  become  hard  and  useless  ever  after. 

Cows  are  often  injured  by  unskilful  treatment  when  the  period  of  their 
gestation  has  arrived.  They  should  then  be  placed  in  a  warm,  clean,  and 
well-ventilated  cow-house  or  shed,  moderately  fed,  and  well  watched,  and 
if  all  is  right  they  should  be  left  undisturbed  ;  but  if  difficulties  should 
arise,  the  veterinary  surgeon  should  immediately  be  sent  for,  and  his 
practical  skill  will  usually  overcome  them. 

Hove  or  Hoove. — The  disease  called  Hove  or  Hoove  is  said  to  arise 


*  This  necessity  has  been  experienced  in  several  cases  by  the  writer.  A  few 
years  ago,  when  cows  were  cheap,  12/.  were  offered  for  a  small  but  pretty  heifer 
About  four  or  five  days  before  she  was  expected  to  calve  a  cold  wind  set  in,  and 
being  in  an  exposed  situation  in  the  farmyard,  she  took  cold  and  had  garget.  In 
administering  a  dose  of  salts  the  herdsman  choked  her,  so  that  she  died.  During 
a  cold  wintry  day,  in  the  early  spring  of  this  year,  the  cows  were  put  into  a 
meadow.  As  was  supposed,  one  of  them  was  about  to  calve  and  was  driven 
home,  und  the  veterinary  surgeon  sent  for.  On  his  arrival  he  found  the  event  had 
taken  place,  and  on  sending  the  herdsman  into  the  meadow  the  calf  was  discovered 
— of  course  dead.  They  should  neither  of  them  have  been  out  of  their  cow-house 
it  the  time.     Both  heifer  and  calf  were  lost  through  carelessness. 


396  Diseases  of  Cows. 

from  forcing  cattle  on  too  fast,  by  giving  them  too  rich  succulent  food ; 
but  as  we  see  as  many  (if  not  more)  poor  fed  animals  affected  by  the  com- 
plaint, it  is  generally  believed  to  be  caused  by  bringing  them  up  in  low. 
undrained  meadows,  where  they  get  coarse  sedgy  food  without  shelter, 
after  having  been  half  starved  with  cold  and  inferior  food  during  the  winter. 

Lime  water  and  turpentine  are  said  to  be  a  cure  for  this  disease,  which 
at  first  seems  only  to  affect  the  windpipe,  but  when  the  insects  which  are 
the  cause  of  it  have  reached  the  lungs,  no  remedy  can  be  depended  on. 

Cattle  are  believed  to  be  infested  by  these  insects  while  in  their  winged, 
mature  state,  in  low  marshy  grounds.  They  are  first  attacked  in  the 
nostril  when  they  inhale  their  eggs  ;  but  however  this  may  be,  one  thing 
is  certain,  namely,  that  animals  are  less  likely  to  become  diseased  if  kept 
on  well-drained  upland  pastures  and  in  good  condition. 

Pleuro-pneumonia  has  been  a  fatal  disease  among  many  herds  of 
cattle.  It  is  dreadfully  infectious,  and  an  immense  number  of  valuable 
animals  have  been  destroyed  by  its  ravages.  If  the  disease  be  discovered 
to  prevail  in  the  neighbourhood  of  healthy  cattle,  they  should  not  be 
removed,  but  kept  at  home ;  and  should  any  of  them  show  the  least 
symptom  of  fever  or  disease,  they  should  have  a  seton  in  the  dewlaps 
of  their  chest.  This  is  believed  to  divert  the  inflammation  from  their 
lungs  by  bringing  on  a  copious  discharge  from  their  chests.  For  all  lung 
disease  it  is  safest  to  employ  veterinary  skill. 

Casualties. — It  is  common  for  cattle  to  get  choked  when  feeding  on 
cut  turnips  or  other  roots.  This  is  occasioned  by  the  lodgment  of  a  piece 
in  their  throat  or  gullet  which  has  not  been  properly  masticated.  It 
can  sometimes  be  removed  by  pressing  it  forward  with  the  fingers  and 
thumb.  The  safest  plan,  however,  would  be  for  the  herdsman  to  keep  a 
proper  tube  by  him  which  is  made  for  that  purpose  and  covered  with 
leather.  It  is  also  used  to  enable  cattle  to  expel  wind  from  their  stomachs 
when  they  are  blown  by  an  accumulation  of  it.  This  latter  cross  event  is 
very  dangerous.  It  is  generally  brought  on  by  feeding  too  greedily  when 
first  turned  into  new  luscious  food,  such  as  coleworts,  clover,  tares,  &c. 
The  ruminating  process  being  stopped  (because  the  animal  cannot  expel 
the  accumulation  of  half  masticated  food  fast  enough),  wind  increases 
rapidly  till  it  becomes  so  distressed  by  the  distension  of  its  stomach  that 
unless  speedily  relieved  it  soon  dies. 

Remedy  for  Wind. — A  pint  of  linseed  oil  generally  succeeds  in  forcing 
a  passage  into  the  stomach  and  in  enabling  the  beast  to  expel  the  wind. 

In  some  extreme  cases  where  no  other  remedy  was  at  hand,  a  pen- 
knife has  been  thrust  between  their  ribs  into  the  stomach.  This  puncture 
has  had  the  desired  effect.  The  wound  soon  healed  and  the  poor  crea- 
ture's life  was  saved. 

Very  few  breeders  or  feeders  of  cattle  use  turnip-cutters  now  for  stall 
feeding.  The  accidents  of  choking  and  blowing  seldom  occur  where  the 
improved  system  of  pulping  roots  is  practised. 

Cause  of  Diseases. — 111  fed  and  roughly  u^ed  animals  are  subject  to 
many  diseases,  which  no  doubt  would  be  avoided  if  they  were  carefully 
fed  and  properly  protected  from  cold  and  wet  seasons.  Wet  lodging, 
poor  food,  and  careless  treatment  are  too  generally  found  to  be  the  pre- 
cursors of  weak  and  unhealthy  constitutions. 


Milk.  397 

Diseases  of  Calves. — Calves  are  often  subject  to  diarrhoea  when  sucking 
or  weaning.  The  certain  remedy  is  to  lessen  the  usual  food  and  give  two 
or  three  glasses  of  port  wine  and  a  piece  of  opium  about  the  size  of  a  pea. 
If  necessary,  you  may  repeat  the  dose  the  next  day,  and  continue  it  till 
cured.     Should  the  griping  return,  alter  their  food  and  relieve  as  before. 

Young  men  and  lads  who  show  that  they  are  kindly  disposed  and  feel 
an  interest  in  stock  should  alone  be  entrusted  with  feeding  and  attending 
to  young  animals.  Food  given  them  either  too  hot  or  too  cold  would  prove 
very  disastrous. 

A  disease  known  as  garget  in  weaned  calves  arises  from  exposure  to 
cold,  or  lying  on  damp  ground  and  the  want  of  nourishing  food,  and  is 
fearfully  infectious.  The  blood  chills  and  mortification  soon  follows, 
unless  in  the  early  symptoms  a  seton  in  the  dewlap  and  good  nursing 
should  restore  the  system  to  healthy  action. ' 

Foot  and  Mouth  Disease. — This  is  generally  discovered  by  cattle 
foaming  at  their  mouths,  becoming  lame  and  refusing  to  eat  their  food. 
This  complaint  appears  to  be  brought  on  by  a  slow  fever.  When  it  first 
appears,  give  each  animal  a  pound  of  common  salt  with  half  a  pound  of 
Epsom  salts  in  a  quart  of  water,  well  dissolved,  or  for  a  large  animal, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  the  latter.  The  next  day  give  to  each,  two 
drms.  of  Chloride  of  Potash  in  their  water,  and  continue  it  every  day  till 
they  are  well.  Their  mouths  and  feet  should  be  washed  twice  a  day  with 
a  solution  of  Blue  Vitriol,  one  ounce  to  a  gallon  of  water. 

Milk. 

What  is  milk  ?  Men  of  science  inform  us,  "  that  it  is  a  connecting 
and  intermediate  substance  between  animals  and  vegetables.  Almost 
every  kind  of  the  mammalia  class  has  something  different  in  the  compo- 
sition of  its  milk.  That  produced  by  the  cow  is  well  known  to  be  the 
most  abundant  and  valuable  of  any  of  them.  This  white  opaque  fluid 
has  a  slight  peculiar  smell  and  an  agreeable  sweetish  flavour.  It  is  com- 
posed of  water,  oil,  sugar,  curd,  acetic  acid,  extractive,  muriates  of  soda 
and  potash,  sulphate  of  potash,  and  phosphates  of  lime,  magnesia  and 
iron." 

When  properly  set,  that  is,  immediately  after  it  comes  from  the  cow,  in 
a  shallow  earthenware  pan,  a  thick  unctuous  yellowish  substance  begins 
to  rise  to  the  surface,  which  we  call  cream.  This  is  skimmed  off  at  the 
end  of  twelve  or  twenty-four  hours,  and  put  into  an  earthen  pot,  and 
after  a  sufficient  quantity  has  been  collected,  it  is  churned  into  butter. 
To  make  cheese  the  milk  should  be  heated  to  a  certain  temperature  and 
a  little  rennet  poured  into  it  which  will  cause  it  to  coagulate  into  a  mass,  and 
the  curd  to  separate  from  the  whey ;  the  solid  we  call  curd  and  the  liquid 
whey.     Thus  milk  is  separated  into  three  parts — cream,  curd,  and  whey. 

Butter  is  usually  produced  by  means  of  beaters  or  fans,  which  are 
made  to  agitate  the  cream  ;  during  this  process  a  separation  takes  place 
between  what  is  called  the  butyraceous  particles  and  the  thin  serous 
fluid.  The  former  unites  into  a  mass  and  is  called  butter,  and  the  latter, 
butter-milk. 

It  is  not  generally  known  that  a  little  hot  or  cold  water  mixed  with 
the  cream  neither  lessens  the  quantity  of  butter  nor  injures  its  flavour.  It 
is  merely  added  to  assist  in  attaining  a  proper  temperature  for  churning. 


398  The  Dairy  Maid's  Duties. 


A  Few  General  Remarks  on  Milk. — Milk  is  one  of  the  most  useful 
articles  of  food.  It  can  be  equally  taken  by  old  and  young,  and  is  very 
nourishing. 

Milk  or  cream  is  a  necessary  adjunct  to  the  breakfast  table,  and 
renders  tea,  coffee,  or  cocoa  a  delicious  beverage,  and  none  of  our  meals 
would  be  complete  without  butter.  In  some  form  or  other  milk  is  present. 
In  cream,  butter,  or  cheese,  cakes,  pastry,  etc. 

The  constant  demand  for  milk  amongst  all  classes  of  society  keeps  up 
its  high  price,  and  only  a  small  quantity  can  be  purchased  by  the  poor. 
It  is,  however,  a  luxury  they  generally  appreciate,  and  they  usually  ma- 
nage to  have  a  little  every  day.  They  may  not  always  be  able  to  procure 
meat,  but  with  rare  exceptions  they  can  get  a  little  piece  of  butter  and 
cheese,  which  give  a  relish  to  their  food. 

It  shows  God's  wisdom  and  goodness  that  those  things  which  are 
most  necessary  are  most  abundant. 

The  Dairy  Maid's  Duties. 

Punctuality,  order,  and  cleanliness  must  be  observed  in  all  dairy  work. 

The  dairy-maid  should  be  an  early  riser,  for,  in  the  summer  months 
especially,  much  of  her  work  will  have  to  be  done  before  breakfast.  In 
preparing  the  dairy  for  use  the  walls  must  be  whitewashed,  the  windows 
cleaned,  and  the  shelves  scrubbed  with  cold  water  and  a  brush  kept  for 
that  purpose,  and  never  used  for  the  dairy  utensils,  and  the  floor  nicely 
cleaned.  Having  heated  the  copper  she  must  next  take  her  best  scrub- 
brush  and  thoroughly  scour  every  part  of  the  dairy  utensils  with  cold 
water,  rinsing  them  well,  and  if  they  are  to  be  used  for  milk,  cream, 
butter,  curd,  or  cheese,  afterwards  scalding  them  and  placing  them  in  the 
rack  and  on  shelves  outside  the  washhouse  door,  for  the  purpose  of  sweeten- 
ing them,  as  the  air  is  a  great  purifier.  Next  carry  them  into  the  dairy 
and  place  them  on  the  shelves  conveniently  for  use,  taking  care  to  keep  "a 
place  for  everything  and  everything  in  its  place."  The  milk  pans  (earthen- 
ware preferred)  may  be  piled  in  a  stack  and  taken  down  as  wanted. 

Fuller's  earth  or  wood  ashes  are  sometimes  used  for  scouring  with 
cold  water,  but  soap  must  never  be  used,  for  it  would  surely  spoil  the 
cream  and  butter. 

Should  the  herdsman  milk  the  cows,  it  is  necessary  to  see  that  they 
are  milked  perfectly  dry,  as  the  richest  part  comes  last,  and  the  dairy-maid 
should  be  particular  to  have  her  clean  pans  ready  to  receive  the  milk, 
which  must  be  set  or  emptied  into  them  at  once.  Next  she  should  rinse 
the  pail  with  cold  water,  and  scrub  it,  and  afterwards  scald  it  and  wipe 
it  with  the  dairy  cloth.  The  dairy  cloth  must  then  be  carefully  washed  in 
cold  water,  scalded,  and  hung  to  dry.  This  must  be  done  once  a  day. 
In  the  evening  rinse  the  pail  with  cold  water  and  wipe  it  with  the  dairy 
cloth.  If  either  the  pail  or  cloth  were  neglected,  it  would  spoil  all  the 
cream  and  butter. 

After  the  milk  has  been  standing  twenty-four  hours,  the  dairy-maid 
will  take  a  skimmer  and  basin  with  a  spout  and  proceed  to  skim  the 
cream  off,  first  loosening  it  round  the  edge  with  her  finger.  Then  put  in 
the  skimmer  and  take  up  as  much  cream  as  it  will  hold,  allowing  the 
milk  to  drain  off  before  putting  it  into  the  basin.  This  is  repeated  until 
all  the  cream  has  been  carefully  removed.     As  the  small  basin  is  filled, 


To  Chum  Butter.  399 


it  is  transferred  from  time  to  time  to  the  cream-pot,  into  which  a  piece 
of  saltpetre,  about  the  size  of  a  nut,  is  dropped  with  the  first  lot  of  cream 
only,  and  stirred  with  a  flat  wooden  stick,  which  is  left  in,  as  it  will  be 
required  to  stir  the  cream  every  time  any  is  added.  Should  the  cream  be 
more  than  three  days  gathering  for  butter-making,  it  should  be  put  into 
another  clean  pot  and  stirred  daily  as  before.  This  process  gives  it  ven- 
tilation and  it  keeps  better. 

The  skim  milk  may  be  used  for  domestic  purposes,  bread  making, 
puddings,  &c,  and  the  remainder  (if  not  sold)  may  be  given  to  the  calves, 
pigs,  and  poultry  with  advantage. 

After  the  milk  pans  have  been  emptied,  they  should  at  once  be  care- 
fully washed  with  the  scrub-brush  and  cold  water  (hot  would  only  set  the 
grease)  and  well  rinsed  and  dried,  and  then  put  away  till  churning  day, 
when  they  can  be  thoroughly  done  with  the  rest  of  the  things,  as  they 
must  be  properly  scalded  before  being  used  again.  There  are  many 
varieties  of  churns,  such  as  the  barrel,  box,  air.  The  latter  is  the  most 
difficult  to  use,  as  it  requires  the  milk  to  be  at  a  certain  temperature,  and 
if  either  hotter  or  colder  the  butter  will  not  come.  The  American  box 
churn,  sold  by  Messrs.  Burgess  and  Keys,  is  here  recommended  as  easy 
to  use  and  easy  to  clean. 

To  Churn  Butter. 

Fill  your  churn  and  butter  stand  with  cold  water  over  night.  If  sum- 
mer time,  and  the  weather  should  be  very  hot,  rise  about  three  or  four  in 
the  morning,  then  skim  any  pans  you  may  have  ready,  empty  the  water 
out  of  your  churn  and  strain  the  cream  through  a  clean  cheese-cloth  into 
it,  till  three  parts  full,  not  fuller,  as  if  too  full  it  would  become  frothy. 
Then  gently  turn  your  handle,  lifting  the  lid  of  the  churn  occasionally, 
but  oftener  at  first,  to  let  out  the  gas,  which  would  prevent  the  particles  of 
cream  from  uniting  into  a  solid  mass,  and  occasion  you  much  trouble  by 
becoming  frothy,  when  you  might  churn  for  days  and  perhaps  never  get 
butter  at  all.  When  you  find  the  butter  is  collecting,  turn  the  beaters 
slowly  up  and  dash  them  suddenly  down  until  it  is  in  firm  lumps  and 
ready  for  your  butter  stand.  Take  them  out,  and  place  them  in  it,  after  hav- 
ing first  emptied  out  the  water  and  rubbed  the  bottom  with  salt  and  rinsed 
it.  Strain  the  butter-milk  through  a  clean  cheese  cloth  into  a  pail,  carefully 
putting  the  rest  of  the  butter  (if  any)  into  the  stand. 

Wash  it  with  fresh  spring  water,  then  work  it  with  your  boards  and 
hands  till  all  the  milk  is  pressed  out.  Then  shape  it  into  pounds  or  pats 
as  you  may  think  proper,  and  mark  it  according  to  taste.  Many  pretty 
devices  a»e  now  sold  for  that  purpose.  Before  shaping  it,  salt  it,  if  re- 
quired, and  weigh  it. 

In  Cambridgeshire  butter  is  made  into  rolls  a  yard  long,  and  passed 
through  a  ring  of  a  certain  diameter,  for  the  convenience  of  dividing  it 
without  weighing.     In  some  parts  it  is  made  into  pints. 

Having  washed  your  large  dishes  with  salt  and  water,  you  carefully 
place  each  pound  or  pat  on  a  dish  with  your  boards  as  you  finish  it,  and 
put  it  on  a  shelf  in  the  dairy.  In  summer  it  is  dropped  into  a  pail  of  cold 
water,  and  left  till  next  morning  before  placing  on  the  dish. 

Next  with  cold  water  and  best  scrub-brush  you  carefully  wash  off 
every  particle  of  milk  from  your  churn,  stand,  milk-pans,  cream-pots,  and 
other  utensils,  and  scald  the  moveable  ones  in  the  copper  (be  sure  not  to 


400  Devonshire  Cream. 

put  enamelled  ones  in,  or  the  heat  will  expand  the  outside  and  cause  the 
enamel  to  crack) ;  but  those  that  are  too  large  for  that,  pour  boiling  water 
into  them,  and  let  it  stand  in  for  a  time  ;  then  take  them  out  into  the  air 
and  place  them  in  the  rack  outside,  and  on  the  shelf  and  stool,  till  they 
are  thoroughly  sweet.     Then  replace  them  in  the  dairy  as  before. 

During  winter,  about  twenty  minutes  before  using  it  pour  boiling  water 
into  your  churn  to  heat  it,  for  if  freezing  it  must  be  thoroughly  warmed  ; 
but  when  the  thermometer  is  above  temperate,  it  will  not  require  it.  In 
very  severe  weather  it  may  be  necessary  to  churn  before  the  kitchen  fire. 
Churning  should  now  be  done  quicker  than  in  summer,  and  the  butter 
should  be  shaped  as  soon  as  possible,  or  it  will  become  so  hard  with  the 
cold  as  to  be  difficult  to  work.  After  it  is  salted  according  to  taste,  weigh 
it  and  make  it  up  at  once. 

Summer  Temfteratw'e. — In  summer  it  is  important  to  keep  the  dairy 
cool ;  therefore  it  is  necessary  to  shut  the  windows  and  shutters  during 
the  excessive  heat  of  the  day,  and  to  open  them  in  the  evening.  Washing 
it  down  with  cold  spring  water  twice  a  day  will  freshen  it  and  assist  in 
preserving  the  milk  sweet. 

Winter  Te?nperature. — In  winter  it  is  desirable  to  keep  the  dairy 
about  temperate,  therefore  the  windows  may  be  kept  partially,  and  in  case 
of  frost  wholly  closed ;  if  very  severe  the  shutters  must  also  be  shut. 

Necessity  of  providing  Butter  for  Winter  use. — Butter  has  of  late  years 
been  an  expensive  article  of  housekeeping,  and  as  it  still  keeps  up  its  high 
price,  it  would  be  as  well,  whilst  cheap  and  plentiful  during  the  spring  and 
summer,  to  put  some  down  for  winter  use.  The  following  receipts  will 
be  found  useful : — 

Salting  Butter. — In  salting  butter  the  quality  of  the  salt  is  of  great 
importance.  It  should  be  of  the  best  quality.  Some  persons  use  half  an 
ounce  of  dry  salt  pounded  fine,  two  drms.  of  sugar,  and  two  drms.  of 
saltpetre  to  every  pound  of  butter.  As  a  cask  or  large  jar  is  filled  up, 
every  fresh  quantity  is  carefully  added  to  the  preceding  portion.  Should 
it  shrink  away  from  the  sides,  melted  butter  may  be  poured  round  it  to 
fill  it  up. 

Without  Salt. — Butter  may  be  preserved  without  salt,  by  melting  it 
very  gently,  without  boiling  ;  which  causes  the  watery  particles  to  evapo- 
rate, and  the  curd,  which  is  always  present  in  small  quantities,  and  is  a 
principal  cause  of  rancidity,  to  fall  to  the  bottom.  The  clear  butter  is 
then  poured  into  an  earthen  vessel,  and  covered  with  paper  and  a  piece 
of  bladder  tied  over,  to  exclude  the  air.  Butter  thus  prepared  loses  some 
of  its  flavour,  but  is  much  superior  to  salt  butter  for  ordinary  purposes. 

All  butter  that  is  produced  in  this  country  is  consumed  here,  and  a 
large  quantity  is  imported  from  Ireland,  Holland,  and  other  countries. 

The  consumption  of  butter  in  London  is  estimated  at  15,000  to  16,000 
tons  yearly. 

Devonshire  Cream. 

In  Devonshire,  instead  of  the  ordinary  mode  of  raising  cream  in 
shallow  pans,  it  is  put  into  a  tin  vessel  as  soon  as  it  comes  from  the  cow, 
and  placed  on  a  stove,  to  stand  there  for  twelve  hours,  and  then  the  stove 
is  heated.  This  prevents  the  cream  breaking,  by  being  carried  to  it. 
The  milk  should  be  heated  gradually  until  quite  scalding,  when  a  thick 
scum  called  "  clotted  cream"  is  thrown  up,  but  it  must  not  be  allowed  to 


The  Cow  House.  401 

boil.  The  lire  should  then  be  put  out,  and  the  cream  allowed  to  stand 
twelve  hours  longer,  when  it  may  be  skimmed.  It  may  then  be  readily 
made  into  butter  by  beating  it  by  hand  in  a  bowl. 

Another  mode  which  is  followed  in  parts  of  Holland,  Scotland,  and 
Ireland,  is  to  churn  the  milk  and  cream  together,  by  which  it  is  said  more 
butter  is  produced. 

The  Cow  House. 

The  milking  or  cow-house  should  be  situated  within  a  short  distance 
of  the  dairy.  If  it  were  within  a  few  steps  it  would  be  so  much  the  better, 
as  the  milkers  could  then  empty  their  pails  into  the  pans  while  the  milk 
was  warm.  The  cream  would  then  rise  more  quickly  and  more  abun- 
dantly than  if  left  to  cool  first.  Milk  is  usually  poured  through  a  sieve 
or  cheese-cloth  into  the  pans,  or  else  strained,  before  using  for  domestic 
purposes.  Where  it  is  not  strained,  the  cream  is  always  poured  through 
a  cheese-cloth  into  the  churn. 

Mode  of  Building. — The  building  should  be  at  least  sixteen  feet  wide 
inside,  to  allow  good  room  for  stalls  and  feeding  troughs,  and  for  com- 
fortable room  behind  the  cows.  Their  troughs  should  be  placed  three 
feet  from  the  wall,  so  that  their  food  could  be  put  in  on  that  side  of  the 
building.  It  should  join  the  root-house.  The  floor  should  be  paved  with 
bricks,  pretty  high  where  the  cows  would  stand,  and  sloping  down  to  a 
gutter  behind  them.  The  gutter  should  be  made  with  a  good  fall,  so  that 
no  manure  could  remain  long  in  it.  It  would  be  well  if  a  cesspool  could 
be  made  at  a  little  distance  to  receive  the  drainage,  so  that  no  effluvia 
from  it  could  reach  the  milking-house. 

It  would  be  a  good  plan  to  have  the  north  and  south  walls  wholly  en- 
closed, with  the  exception  of  a  door  for  entrance  into  the  turnip  and 
chaff-house,  and  the  east  and  west  ends  fitted  up  with  double  folding- 
doors,  in  a  line  with  that  part  of  the  floor  behind  the  cows.  By  this  means, 
if  both  ends  were  left  open  in  the  summer,  a  current  of  cool  air  would 
go  through  the  place,  and  either  one  or  the  other  might  be  closed  when 
the  cold  wind  came  from  the  east  or  west  in  winter. 

The  calf-pens  would  have  to  be  placed  at  each  end.  A  few  air-bricks 
might  be  put  into  the  south  wall,  about  four  or  five  feet  above  the  cows' 
heads,  and  a  boarded  loft  over  the  whole  building,  the  length  of  which 
would  depend  on  the  number  of  cows  kept.  If  numerous,  a  row  of  cow- 
stalls  (which  might  be  double),  on  either  side  of  the  building,  with  a  path 
down  the  middle  for  the  men,  would  be  an  advantage. 

The  strictest  cleanliness  should  be  practised,  and  clean  dry  beds  pro- 
vided for  the  cattle  when  housed,  and  everything  done  that  is  required  to 
make  them  comfortable. 

It  would  be  advisable  to  have  the  pastures  near  the  milking-house 
where  it  is  possible,  for  when  they  are  fetched  from  a  long  distance  they 
sometimes  get  hurried,  and  their  milk  becomes  overheated.  Whoever 
drives  them  should  be  urged  to  do  it  gently,  and  taught  the  law  of  kind- 
ness. Neither  whips  nor  sticks  should  be  used  if  cows  are  expected  to 
yield  their  milk  down  freely.  If  treated  with  gentle  kindness  they  will 
become  attached  to  their  keeper  or  herdsman,  and  will  place  themselves 
in  a  quiet  position  to  be  milked,  even  in  the  open  field. 

D   D 


402  Hints  on  Milking — Gloucestershire  Cheese. 

It  is  dangerous  to  drive  cows  a  long  distance  when  near  the  time  of 
calving. 

Hints  on  Milking. 

Milking. — Those  who  milk  cows  should  be  well  looked  after,  and  in 
large  butter  and  cheese  making  dairies  some  trusty  person  should  always 
follow  the  milkers  to  watch  their  proceedings  and  to  ascertain  whether  the 
cows  have  been  well  milked.  If  a  cow  has  been  ill-treated  she  will  leave 
off  eating,  toss  up  her  head  and  become  restless  while  she  is  being  milked. 
She  would  not  give  down  her  milk  freely  if  she  had  been  misused  by  the 
person  who  was  milking,  and  probably  several  pints  of  milk  would  be 
retained  after  he  had  left  her. 

Few  persons  are  fully  aware  of  the  great  loss  sustained  by  cowkeepers 
in  consequence  of  their  not  employing  good  milkers. 

It  is  very  important  indeed  to  ensure  the  certainty  of  having  every  cow 
well  stripped  for  two  ostensible  reasons.  One  is  that  the  last  pint  or  two 
of  the  strippings  is  a  great  deal  richer  than  that  which  is  first  milked. 
Analysts  inform  us  that  it  is  ten  times  as  rich  in  butter  and  cheese  pro- 
ducing qualities.  But  another  very  strong  reason  why  cows  should  be 
thoroughly  well  milked  is,  that  they  will  very  soon  fall  off  in  the  produce 
of  their  usual  quantity  if  all  their  milk  be  not  drawn  from  them.  They 
will  gradually  produce  less  and  less.  The  portion  left  by  careless  milkers 
seems  to  be  absorbed  into  the  system,  and  nature  will  continue  to  generate 
no  more  than  what  has  been  abstracted.  If  this  be  the  case,  and  some 
milk  be  left  every  day,  of  course  the  cow  soon  becomes  dry.  Observant 
men  have  frequently  noted  this  fact,  while  the  owners  of  the  herd  have 
been  unconscious  of  it,  and  have  wondered  why  so  little  butter  and  cheese 
have  been  produced,  and  why  it  was  that  their  cows  have  become  dry  at 
the  end  of  six  or  seven  months,  while  their  neighbours'  cows  have  con- 
tinued to  give  a  pretty  good  quantity  till  within  two  months  of  their 
calving. 

It  is  not  the  usual  custom  to  milk  cows  more  than  twice  a  day,  but  it 
has  been  found  that  they  will  give  a  larger  quantity  if  milked  three  times. 

However,  it  is  not  generally  thought  worth  Avhile  to  trouble  cither  the 
servants  or  the  cows  during  the  middle  of  the  day  for  what  extra  quantity 
could  be  produced  by  this  practice. 

It  will  appear  from  what  has  been  stated,  that  kind  treatment  and 
clean  milking  are  essential  requisites  in  the  management  of  a  dairy. 

Cleanliness  with  regard  to  milkers  is  indispensable.  Their  hands  must 
be  washed  perfectly  clean,  and  should  the  cow's  udder  be  soiled  it  must 
be  washed  clean  also. 

If  all  persons  employed  in  dairy  work  are  clean  and  careful,  their 
butter  and  cheese  are  sure  to  be  good. 

Gloucestershire  Cheese. 

In  the  month  of  April  the  process  of  cheese  making  generally  begins, 
though  it  is  not  till  after  the  cows  are  fed  in  good  pastures  that  the  blue 
mould  will  be  on  it  which  is  a  sign  of  richness. 

One  difficulty  to  contend  against  just  now  is  the  heaving  of  the  cheese, 
or  getting  out  of  shape.  This  may  sometimes  be  prevented  by  putting  one 
pint  of  sour  whey  to  forty  or  fifty  gallons  of  milk  and  also  a  little  saltpetre. 


Cheddar  Cheeses.  4°3 


To  the  same  quantity  of  milk  put  a  tablespoonful  of  saltpetre  in  this 
way.  Place  it  on  the  cloth  which  covers  the  cheese-tub  underneath  the 
sieve,  and  strain  the  milk  through  it.  The  saltpetre  will  then  dissolve 
and  effectually  mix  with  the  milk. 

When  the  milk  is  cool  enough  for  the  rennet  to  be  put  in,  which  is 
eighty  degrees  as  indicated  by  your  thermometer,  it  should  be  allowed  to 
stand  for  an  hour  without  being  disturbed.  Then  it  may  be  cut  with  a 
knife  having  three  blades,  slowly  at  first,  to  allow  of  some  of  the  whey 
being  dripped  from  it.  In  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer,  it  may  be  broken 
up  very  small,  without  injuring  the  quality  by  the  fat  from  the  curd  being 
carried  off  by  the  whey.  It  will  then  sink  in  a  solid  mass,  when  the  whey 
can  be  more  easily  removed.  As  it  is  necessary  to  make  the  curd  as  dry 
as  possible,  it  is  often  put  into  vats  and  placed  in  the  press  for  half  an 
hour,  after  which  it  is  taken  out  and  placed  in  a  tub,  and  either  crumbled 
to  pieces  with  the  hand  or,  which  saves  the  dairymaid  much  labour, 
ground  by  a  mill  placed  on  the  top  of  the  tub,  this  latter  plan  being  the 
best  for  regularity.  It  will  now  be  put  into  the  vats  and  pressed  firmly 
After  the  cheese  has  been  in  the  press  two  hours,  the  wet  cloth  must  be 
taken  off  and  a  dry  one  substituted,  and  the  cheese  turned  over.  When 
this  second  one  is  removed,  if  the  curd  be  not  properly  closed  up,  a  third 
may  be  used  before  salting.  The  cheese  made  at  night  shot  Id  be  salted 
as  early  as  convenient  the  next  morning,  and  that  made  in  die  morning 
should  have  the  salt  rubbed  in  at  night.  Thin  cheeses  will  require  three 
times  rubbing,  and  thicker  ones  four.  Four  or  five  days  in  the  vat  will 
complete  the  process,  though  a  longer  period  would  be  an  advantage. 

After  taking  the  cheese  from  the  vat  let  it  be  well  washed  in  cold  water 
to  remove  the  brine  and  wiped,  or  it  will  fail  to  acquire  that  beautiful  blue 
mould  which  is  an  indication  of  richness  and  good  quality  and  will  fetch 
the  highest  price  in  the  market. 

You  may  now  place  your  cheeses  in  the  dairy  for  a  week,  after  which 
they  may  be  removed  to  the  cheese-room.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to 
place  them  in  a  draughty  situation  or  they  will  invariably  crack.  Turn 
them  daily,  frequently  changing  to  clean  shelves.  In  three  or  four  months 
they  will  be  ready. 

Cheddar  Cheeses, 

Pour  the  milk  through  a  sieve  into  a  cheese  tub  as  it  is  drawn  or 
milked  in  the  evening.  But  if  very  hot  weather,  place  large  vessels  in  a 
tank  of  water,  and  pour  it  into  them,  to  cool  till  morning.  These  are  all 
emptied  into  the  tub  with  the  next  morning's  milk.  To  every  hundred 
gallons  add  two  to  four  of  sour  whey,  providing  the  temperature  of  the 
night's  milk  is  not  over  64  degrees,  which  must  be  ascertained  by  the 
thermometer  ;  if  over,  no  whey  should  be  added.  Heat  the  whole  to 
80  degrees  either  by  warming  the  morning's  milk  and  putting  to  the  even- 
ing's, or  by  any  easier  process.  Rennet  and  a  pint  of  water  in  which  two 
or  three  square  inches  of  veil*  has  been  twenty-four  hours  steeping,  is 
then  strained  into  it,  at  the  rate  of  three-quarters  of  a  pint  to  sixty  gallons  of 
milk.  This  must  be  thoroughly  stirred  in,  also  half  an  ounce  of  Freeman's 


*  Veil  is  the  prepared  stomach  of  a  calf. 
D    D    2 


404  Truckle  Cheeses — Stilton  Cheese. 

or  NicliolFs  liquid  Annato  to  every  iifty  gallons  is  mixed  for  colouring.  In 
an  hour  the  curd  will  have  come.  It  is  next  slowly  cut  with  the  curd 
breaker,  and  a  few  gallons  of  whey  gently  baled  out  and  heated,  and  then 
added  to  the  mass  to  raise  the  temperature  again  to  80  degrees  ;  the 
whole  now  being  stirred  and  broken,  and  then  covered  up  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

Ten  or  twenty  gallons  of  whey  are  then  drawn  off,  and  heated  to  about 
145  or  150  degrees,  and  then  run  into  the  tub  again,  raising  the  heat  to 
100  Fahrenheit.  It  is  covered  up  again  for  half  an  hour ;  the  whey  is 
next  slowly  run  off  until  only  a  few  gallons  remain  for  use  the  next  day. 
The  curd  is  then  heaped  into  the  middle  of  the  tub  to  drain,  and  left  for 
half  an  hour.  It  is  then  cut  up,  and  again  left  for  half  an  hour  to  drain. 
It  is  then  weighed,  and  ground  through  a  mill,  and  one  pound  of  salt  to 
one  cwt.  mixed  with  it.  When  sufficiently  cool,  at  6o°,  it  is  vatted  and  put 
into  the  press.  After  three  days  it  is  bandaged,  and  placed  on  a  shelf  in 
the  dairy  for  a  week.  It  is  then  removed  to  the  cheese-room,  where  it 
will  require  turning,  daily  at  first,  and  afterwards  at  longer  intervals, 
wiping  it  when  necessary,  and  occasionally  changing  it  to  clean  shelves. 

In  a  month  it  will  be  ready  for  scraping.  This  is  done  by  moistening 
the  cheese  with  a  wet  flannel  all  over,  and  then  scraping  it  with  a  knife 
till  smooth,  but  leaving  the  edges  sharp.  In  about  three  months'  time  it 
will  be  ready  for  sale. 

Truckle  Cheeses. 

Truckle  cheeses  are  usually  made  in  the  autumn  months,  after  the 
excessive  heat  of  summer  is  over  ;  during  which  they  are  liable  to  heave 
and  bulge,  owing  to  fermentation  occasioned  by  the  hot  weather. 

They  are  made  from  six  to  nine  inches  deep,  and  about  nine  inches 
across,  and  are  recommended  as  the  most  convenient  size  for  the  table. 
It  is  not  easy  to  fill  vats  of  this  description,  they  are  therefore  made  of 
small  staves  like  a  milk  pail  or  bucket,  but  without  bottom.  A  piece 
of  board  rather  larger  than  the  vat  is  kept  at  the  bottom  until  the  cheeses 
are  turned  out. 

Truckle,  or  loaf,  cheeses  have  a  tendency  to  bulge  at  the  sides,  great 
care  is  therefore  required  in  making  them,  for  unless  well  made  they  will 
not  retain  their  original  shape,  but  lose  their  beauty.  The  quality,  conse- 
quently, is  easily  determined  by  the  shape.  When  the  vat  is  half  full,  a 
small  tablespoonful  of  fine  salt  should  be  put  into  the  middle  of  the  cheese, 
taking  care  to  rub  it  well  into  the  curd,  but  not  allowing  it  to  reach  the 
outside,  or  it  would  make  it  crack.  In  the  formation  of  these  cheeses  the 
curd  should  be  made  of  new  milk,  crumbled  small,  and  drained  thoroughly 
before  putting  it  into  the  vats,  and  it  should  be  pressed  in  as  firmly  as 
possible  with  the  hands.  This  done,  they  are  ready  for  the  press,  where 
they  must  remain  four  or  five  days,  and  be  turned  every  day  and  salted 
three  times.     In  about  twelve  months  they  are  fit  for  use. 

Stilton  Cheese. 

Put  the  night's  cream  into  the  morning's   milk  with   the  rennet  as 

before  described.     When  the  curd  is  formed  it  must  not  be  broken,  but 

taken  out  whole  with  the  skimming  dish,  and  placed  in  a  sieve.     As  it 

drains  gradual  pressure  should  be  employed  till  it  becomes  firm  and  dry. 


Cream  Cheese — Parmesan  Cheese — Leicester  Cheese.  405 

It  must  then  be  placed  in  a  hoop,  and  afterwards  kept  on  a  board, 
bound  with  a  cheese  fillet,  and  turned  frequently. 

Cream  Cheese. 
Take  some  of  the  curd,  as  in  Stilton  cheese,  before  it  has  become  too 
firm,  and,  after  draining  it  gently,  and  pressing  it  a  little,  place  it  on 
cut  straws  of  a  certain  length  strung  together.  The  same  quantity  of 
straws  should  be  placed  on  the  top.  It  must  be  turned  every  day.  In 
three  or  four  days  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 

Parmesan  Cheese. 

A  moderate  wood  fire  in  a  stove,  adapted  for  the  purpose  and  placed 
two  feet  below  the  surface  of  the  ground,  is  made  at  ten  o'clock  in  the 
morning,  when  sixty-six  gallons  of  milk  are  poured  into  a  large  copper 
kettle  suspended  from  a  crane  and  placed  over  the  fire.  The  contents 
must  be  stirred  frequently.  An  hour  afterwards,  the  milk  being  under 
blood-heat,  must  be  still  stirred  and  have  some  rennet  squeezed  into  it 
through  a  cloth.  The  copper  must  then  be  turned  from  over  the  fire,  and 
remain  so  till  past  twelve  o'clock,  by  which  time  the  rennet  will  have 
operated  sufficiently.  After  being  stirred  up  and  allowed  to  stand  for  a 
short  time,  some  of  the  whey  should  be  taken  out  and  the  copper  put 
over  the  fire  again,  which  must  be  made  up  sufficiently  to  raise  the 
materials  to  nearly  boiling  point.  Colouring  should  be  then  added,  viz., 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  saffron.  It  must  still  be  occasionally  stirred 
and  the  curd  frequently  examined.  In  about  an  hour  and  half  the  small 
pieces  of  curd  will  be  getting  firm.  When  this  is  the  case,  the  copper 
must  be  taken  off  and  remain  so  till  the  curd  has  subsided.  Part  of  the 
whey  being  removed,  the  curd,  which  will  have  become  tough  and  adhe- 
sive, is  taken  up  in  a  coarse  cloth  and  put  into  a  hoop  and  pressed  for 
half  an  hour  by  a  56  lbs.  weight.  The  cloth  is  then  taken  away  and  the 
cheese,  left  in  the  hoop,  is  then  placed  on  a  shelf.  On  the  third  day,  it  is 
sprinkled  with  salt,  and  this  is  repeated  every  second  day  for  about  six 
weeks.  In  order  to  facilitate  the  salting,  two  cheeses  are  usually  placed 
one  upon  the  other. 

Leicester  Cheese. 

Put  a  rack  across  the  cheese-pan  or  tub  and  pour  the  milk  through  a 
fine  hair  sieve  into  it.  Ascertain  by  the  thermometer  that  the  milk  is  a 
right  heat, — viz.,  eighty-four  degrees,  or  the  curd  will  not  be  a  proper  con- 
sistency. Rennet  and  a  small  quantity  of  water  in  which  veil  has  been 
steeping  is  then  strained  into  it  in  about  the  same  proportion  of  that 
mentioned  in  Cheddar  Cheese. 

Put  a  cloth  over  it  to  keep  up  its  temperature  and  let  it  stand  for  sixty 
minutes.  If  at  the  end  of  thirty  minutes,  the  curd  has  not  begun  to 
collect  at  the  sides  of  the  pan,  add  a  little  more  rennet.  When  the  curd 
is  properly  come,  let  it  be  gently  broken  up  by  putting  the  cheese  breaker 
slowly  down  and  bringing  it  up  as  slowly  until  it  has  gone  once  round  the 
basin  or  pan.  The  second  time  it  may  be  passed  round  a  little  quicker, 
and  the  third  time  put  the  breaker  in  at  one  end  and  bring  it  up  at  the 
other,  and  so  go  round.  After  this  process  let  it  remain  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Then  the  dairy-maid  must  kneel  down  and  begin  to  collect  the 
curd  with  her  arms  and  hands  before  removing  any  of  the  whey  :  by  so 


40 6  Green  Cheeses. 

doing  she  will  be  able  to  get  it  firm  at  the  bottom.  She  must  then  draw 
the  curd  towards  her  which  will  now  occupy  half  the  pan,  turn  it  from 
light  to  left  till  opposite,  and  then  gently  roll  it  over,  bearing  in  mind 
that  the  weight  of  whey  assists  with  the  natural  warmth  of  the  arms  and 
hands  in  producing  the  firmness  required.  She  may  then  commence 
ladling  off  the  whey,  then  cut  her  curd  into  large  squares  and  lay  them 
in  a  wicker  sieve.  The  pan  is  now  empty,  let  her  put  her  cheese  tongs 
across  it  and  place  the  vat  and  cheese  hoop  on  them.  Put  the  large 
lumps  of  curd  into  this  vat  and  lay  the  strainer  over  it,  then  place  the 
strainer  in  the  centre  of  the  vat  and  commence  at  once  to  break  up  the 
curd  with  the  hands.  The  dairy-maid  must  then  take  her  kneeling-board, 
which  is  about  five  inches  in  width  and  thirteen  long,  and  placing  it  over 
half  the  cheese,  must  kneel  on  it  while  she  works  the  other  half  with  her 
fists,  moving  it  gradually  round  so  that  the  cheese  may  be  kneaded  all 
over.  Then  she  must  draw  the  cloth  straight  over  it  corner  ways,  which 
will  enable  her  to  lay  hold  of  both  ends  and  swing  or  turn  it  over. 

Then  she  must  tuck  the  strainer  round  tight  and  knead  it  again  as 
before,  which  will  occupy  half  an  hour.  Next  take  the  strainer  off  and 
cut  the  curd  into  four  large  pieces  and  put  them  into  the  wicker  sieve. 
She  must  then  dip  the  strainer  in  whey,  and  wring  it  perfectly  dry.  The 
dairy-maid  must  again  place  the  tongs  on  the  cheese  pan,  and  put  the  vat 
on  it,  and  cheese  hoop  and  the  strainer  in  the  centre.  She  must  next 
crumble  up  a  third  part  of  the  cheese  with  her  hands,  pressing  it  for 
twenty  minutes,  then  another,  break  it  and  press  it  as  before,  and  lastly 
the  remainder  in  the  same  way  ;  bring  the  corner  of  the  straining  cloth 
over  it,  regulating  her  hoop  so  as  to  be  just  on  the  surface.  By  so  doing 
the  press  will  accomplish  all  that  is  required.  The  curd  is  then  put  into 
the  cheese-press  for  three  hours,  and  when  taken  out  the  strainer  is  wrung. 
It  is  then  salted,  put  in  again,  and  left  for  three  or  four  days  ;  after  which 
the  brine  is  well  washed  off  in  cold  water  and  the  cheese  wiped  and 
placed  in  the  dairy  for  a  week,  and  afterwards  removed  to  the  cheese- 
room. 

Green  Cheeses. 

A  cheese  of  a  dozen  pounds  may  be  made  as  follows.  Take  two 
handfuls  of  sage,  one  of  marigold  leaves,  and  a  little  parsley,  and  then 
let  them  be  well  bruised  and  steeped  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  milk. 
The  greenish  milk  must  be  strained  from  the  mass  the  next  morning,  and 
mixed  with  one-third  the  quantity  to  be  run.  This  mixture  and  the  rest 
of  the  milk  are  then  to  be  run  separately  and  the  two  curds  kept  distinct 
till  they  are  ready  for  vatting.  In  mixing,  the  curds  may  either  be  reduced 
small,  and  blended  intimately  together,  or  the  green  curd  may  be  irregularly 
broken,  or  else  cut  into  regular  shapes.  The  bottom  and  sides  of  the 
vat  are  then  set  with  these  fragments,  interspersing  the  different  curds 
with  each  other,  according  to  the  taste  of  the  maker.  The  middle  is  then 
filled  up  with  the  promiscuous  mixture,  and  at  the  top  the  different  colours 
are  alternately  or  otherwise  disposed,  as  in  the  bottom  and  sides.  The 
remainder  of  the  process  is  the  same  as  that  for  other  cheeses. 


407 


THE    POULTRY    YARD. 


There  is  no  house,  however  small,  with  the  very  least  possible  piece  of 
outlet,  that  may  not,  with  a  little  care  and  trouble,  indulge  in  the  luxury  of 
new-laid  eggs,  spring  chickens,  and  fat  poultry.  We  will  try  to  show  how, 
in  an  inexpensive  manner  and  with  ordinary  care,  the  poultry-yard  may 
prove  a  source  of  amusement  as  well  as  of  profit, 


FOWL     HOUSE. 

Having  decided  on  keeping  fowls,  the  first   thing  to  be  done  is  to 
prepare  a  suitable  place  for  their  habitation.     Of  course  the  size  of  the 


A  Simple  Wooden  or  Felt-covered  Fowl  House. 


fowl-house  must  depend  upon  the  number  you  purpose  keeping,  and  the 
number  you  purpose  keeping  must  be  regulated  by  the  space  at  your 


408  Fowl  House. 


command  ;  but  having  decided  the  size  to  build  your  fowl-house,  which, 
it  possible,  should  have  a  south  aspect,  it  is  well  to  do  so  in  as  cheap  a 
manner  as  possible.     The  most  economical  material  for  building  is  wood, 
the  roof  of  the  same  covered  with  patent  felt.      This  roofing  measures 
thirty-two  inches  wide,  and  is  M.  a  yard.     It  is  water-tight,  but  should  be 
placed  over  common  boards,  as  it  is  apt  to  bag,  and  if  water  settles  in  the 
hollows  it  becomes  rotten.     It  is  nailed  on  with  hot  iron  tacks  heated  in  a 
frying-pan,  and  when  it  is  up,  it  must  be  tarred  and  thickly  sprinkled 
with  sand,  which  should  be  repaired  every  year.     In  summer  weather  a 
felt-covered  house   is   hot,   therefore,  if  possible,  it  should   be   erected 
under  the  shadow  of  trees.     It  should  be  well  ventilated,  but  you  must 
avoid  the  least  possibility  of  a  draught.     The  floor  should  be  perfectly 
dry,  and  the  roof,  like  our  own  houses,  weather-tight.     Sliding-windows 
or    air-openings    should    be    made   at   either    end,  so   as   to    admit    air 
in  abundance,  but  so  situated  as  not   to  expose  the  fowls  to  a  current 
of  air  or  draught  when  they  are  at  roost.     The  perches  should  of  course 
be  round  and    not    too  slight  —  perhaps   about    the  size  of  a  rolling- 
pin  ;  and  the  nearer  they  are  to  the  ground  for  the  heavy  description  of 
poultry  the  better.     Having  completed  the  fowl-house  externally,  the  floor 
must    be   next    attended    to,   and  as  cleanliness  is   of  most   particular 
importance  in  securing  your  fowls  in  health  and  beauty,  too  much  atten- 
tion cannot  be  paid  to  this  part.     There  are  many  opinions  as  to  the  best 
flooring  for  a  fowl-house,  some  recommending  stone  and  bricks:   both 
these  are  too  cold  ;  others,  the  ground  well  rammed,  and  ashes  from  the 
dust-hole,  finely  sifted,  strewn  over  it :  this  plan  we  adopted  ourselves, 
and  although  it  kept  the  feet  of  the  fowl  clean,  it  was  a  complete  nest  of 
and  harbour  for  the  insects  which  are  so  troublesome  to  all  poultry.     The 
best  we  found,  after  very  many  trials,  was  well-screened  gravel  well-beaten 
down  ;  and,  having  a  brickfield  hard  by,  we  were  enabled  to  procure  the 
refuse  from  the  brick  kilns  thickly  spread  over  the  gravel  and  well 
rammed  down  also.     Being  thoroughly  wetted  during  the  process  with 
good  strong  lime-water,  it  forms  a  description  of  concrete.     It  is  of  course 
necessary  you  should  not  mix  your  different  varieties  of  fowl,  otherwise 
you  never  can  depend  upon  a  pure  breed,  which  to  many  is  the  very 
greatest   desideratum  ;    and    to  obtain  that  object  you  must  adopt  the 
following  method  :  Necessarily  you  must  divide  your  poultry-house  into 
as  many  partitions  as  you  intend  to  keep  descriptions  of  poultry.     These 
may  be  made  of  wire  netting,  and  the  run  or  yard  divided  in  the  same 
manner.      Should  the  cocks  prove   troublesome  and  inclined   to   fight, 
boards  or  wire  have  to  be  used  instead  of  netting.     The  whole  of  the  run 
should  be  covered  also  with  netting.     Hatches  must  be  made  in  the 
houses  for  the  exit  and  entrance  of  the  fowls,  and  these  should  be  made 
to  slide  so  that  the  fowls  may  be  safely  shut  up  at  night.     The  greatest 
cleanliness  must  be  observed  both  inside  and  outside  their  houses  ;  baths 
should  be  cleaned  if  possible  once  a  day — at  the  very  least  twice  a  week. 
If  space  allow,  a  sort  of  day-shed  may  be  erected  at  the  bottom  of  the 
run,  made  up  of  any  description  of  old  rubbish,  but  sufficiently  secure  to 
prevent  their  escape,  in  which  gravel,  ashes,  refuse  of  old  buildings,  and  old 
mortar  pounded  may  be  thrown,  so  as  to  enable  them  to  seek  shelter 
from  the  weather  without  taking  refuge  in  their  roosting-place,  and  where 
they  may  also  peck  up  what  is  so  essential  to  their  well-doing,  without 


Fowl  .Hon?' 


409 


which  they  cannot  digest  their  food,  and  where  they  can  feather  them- 
selves. 

Moveable  houses  are  very  excellent  for  fowls,  as  new  earth  is  a  great 
boon  to  poultry.     If  there  is  land  enough  to  allow  of  a  house  of  this  kind 


Bantam  House  for  a  Lawn. 


being  removed  from  time  to  time,  the  poultry  will  thrive  all  the  better  /or 
it.     Moveable  fencing  goes  with  these  houses. 

Having  fixed  upon  the  description  of  fowls  you  purpose  keeping,  the 
very  greatest  care  must  be  taken  in  their  feeding.  They  should  have 
sufficient,  and  no  more  than  sufficient,  food,  but  that  which  they  have 
should  be  good.  Very  many  people  run  away  with  the  false  impression 
that  you  cannot  overfeed  poultry  :  it  is  a  grave  error  to  do  so.  In  feed- 
ing fowls  throw  the  food  to  them,  and  while  they  are  really  hungry  they 
will  run  after  their  food  with  avidity.  When  they  begin  to  slacken  or  begin 
to  eat  daintily,  stop  feeding  them.  One  essential  of  success  in  poultry- 
keeping  is  an  abundant  supply  of  clean  water.  Fowls  are  very  particular 
about  it.  They  also,  like  individuals,  require  a  change  of  diet :  their  usual 
food  is  corn  and  meal  of  every  description,  small  potatoes  boiled  and 
given  hot,  mixed  with  boiled  barley  meal,  pollard,  cayenne  pepper  seeds, 
a  little  Indian  corn,  crusts  of  bread  fried  in  fat,  and  any  cuttings  of  meat 
that  may  be  tainted,  or  the  refuse  from  making  lard,  will  keep  them  laying 
the  whole  year  round.  Fowls  allowed  to  run  about  are  naturally  fond  of 
grass  and  vegetables  ;  any  refuse  cabbage-leaves,  lettuce,  and  grass- 
cuttings  from  the  lawn  will  be  most  acceptable  to  them,  and  should  L>c 
thrown  into  their  run. 


4 1  o  The  Nest.  —  The  Chickens. 


Having  housed  the  fowls  and  described  their  food  and  the  way  of 
feeding,  it  is  natural  to  look  forward  for  some  reward  in  the  way  of  eggs 
and  chickens.  With  proper  food,  such  as  has  been  recommended  above, 
we  are  certain  to  have  a  good  supply  of  the  former.  We  will  show  the 
method  as  adopted  by  some  of  the  best  breeders  to  raise  the  latter.  The 
first  thing  is  to  choose  a  hen  for  sitting :  that  is  easily  ascertained.  When 
you  see  one  of  your  stock  ruffling  her  feathers,  wandering  about,  trying 
to  hide  herself  in  dark  corners  and  out-of-the-way  places,  and  making  a 
peculiar  sort  of "  cluck,"  immediately  prepare  a  nest  for  her  in  a  quiet 
spot,  and  place  there  the  number  of  eggs  which  she  can  conveniently 
cover.  It  depends  entirely  upon  the  size  of  the  hen  what  number  of  eggs 
you  should  place  in  the  nest.  Select  if  possible  a  short-legged  hen.  The 
number  of  eggs  will  of  course  vary  according  to  her  size,  from  nine  to 
thirteen.  Should  you  have  two  hens  "  clucking,"  it  is  a  good  plan  to  sit 
them  both  on  the  same  day,  as  when  the  eggs  are  hatched  the  two  broods 
may  be  given  over  to  the  charge  of  one  hen  ;  you  will  then  have  the  other 
in  a  short  time  laying  again. 

The  nest  must  be  made  warm  and  comfortable  ;  there  must  also  be 
some  degree  of  moisture.  Some  old  housewives  sit  their  hens  on  the 
ground,  but  damp  is  fatal  to  hatching.  The  most  simple  nest  is  one  made 
of  straw,  well-softened  by  rubbing  in  the  hands,  fern  or  heath.  You  must 
induce  the  hen  to  leave  her  nest  every  day,  and  see  that  she  has  plenty  of 
water  and  food,  and  also  an  opportunity  of  rolling  herself  in  dust  or 
ashes,  and  picking  among  gravel  or  soil.  Do  not  interfere  with  her  more 
than  this,  as  excessive  watching  will  disturb  her.  The  eggs  chosen  for 
sitting  should  be  from  the  newest  you  have  ;  if  you  have  enough  all  laid 
on  one  day,  so  much  the  better.  At  the  expiration  of  twenty-one  days, 
if  all  goes  well,  you  will  find  your  chickens  hatched  ;  if  in  winter,  hen 
and  chickens  should  be  comfortably  housed — an  old  shed  will  do.  Place 
the  hen  under  a  coop  ;  a  box  with  one  side  taken  out,  with  laths  nailed  in 
front,  makes  a  very  excellent  and  cheap  one.  Place  some  chicken  food 
in  front  of  the  coop.  Whilst  very  young  they  should  be  fed  every  hour, 
and  any  stale  food  they  may  have  left  should  be  removed  ;  as  they  grow, 
the  number  of  meals  may  gradually  be  reduced  until  they  are  fit  for  fat- 
tening. The  best  food  for  very  young  chickens  is  hard-boiled  eggs,  bread- 
and-milk,  millet,  rice  (boiled),  and  canary  seed.  With  the  chicken  as  with 
the  fowls,  the  greatest  cleanliness  must  be  observed,  and  their  water- 
pans  should  be  replenished  two  or  three  times  a  day.  The  best  age  for 
sitting  a  hen  is  from  two  to  five  years,  and  in  selecting  the  hen  you  should 
choose  one  that  has  proved  a  good  brooder,  and  keep  the  giddy  and  care- 
less ones  solely  for  laying.  Many  people  select  fowls  as  sitters  that  have 
tufts  on  their  heads.  Every  year  some  fine  young  fowls  should  be  reared, 
to  keep  up  a  stock  of  good  breeders  ;  by  attending  to  this,  and  feeding 
bad  layers  and  careless  nurses,  you  will  insure  a  good  and  profitable 
stock.  Should  you  be  inclined  to  sit  a  hen  on  any  other  description  of 
eggs  than  her  own,  be  most  careful  in  placing  her  eggs  as  many  days 
after  the  others  as  there  is  difference  in  the  length  of  their  sitting.  Have 
wormwood  and  rue  conveniently  situated  near  your  poultry-house  ;  some 
of  the  former,  boiled  and  sprinkled  over  the  floor  of  the  house,  is  an  ex- 
cellent thing.  Pills  made  of  chopped  rue  and  butter  are  by  some  con- 
sidered a  panacea  for  all  the  ailments  to  which  fowls  are  subject.    Moisture, 


Food  for  Chickens  and  Fowls.  411 


as  before  shown,  is  absolutely  necessary  to  insure  success,  as  well  as 
being  a  means  of  insuring  quick  hatching — which  is  of  great  consequence, 
as  many  chickens  die  from  inability  to  escape  from  their  shell.  During 
wet,  warm  weather  the  eggs  will  not  require  any  interference  with  ;  but  in 
hot,  dry,  parching  weather,  a  little  assistance  must  be  given,  by  sprinkling 
the  eggs  during  the  absence  of  the  hen,  when  feeding,  with  tepid  water, 
and  watering  with  a  water-pot  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  nest,  to  create 
a  moist,  steamy  atmosphere.  Should  it  be  necessary  to  give  assistance 
to  the  chick  in  its  endeavour  to  quit  the  shell,  care  must  be  taken  that 
the  time  has  really  arrived  when  assistance  should  be  given.  If  on  break- 
ing away  the  shell  the  least  shadow  or  sign  of  blood  should  be  seen,  stop 
immediately — the  chicken  is  not  ready  to  leave  the  shell ;  by  persisting 
you  would  most  certainly  cause  the  death  of  the  chick.  If  the  chick  be 
ready  to  leave  the  shell,  but  unable  through  the  dryness  of  the  weather, 
and  consequent  hardness  of  it,  he  will  assist  you  in  your  attempts  to 
bring  him  into  light.  Do  not  neglect  to  feed  your  poultry  regularly  with 
good  and  solid  food  from  the  first  Those  hens  you  intend  to  keep  for 
laying  should  be  fed  on  Indian  corn-meal,  and  those  for  market  or  for  the 
table  should  have  more  nourishing  food.  It  is  a  great  mistake  to  pur- 
chase what  is  called  chicken's  corn  for  fowls,  as  it  is  generally  little  more 
than  husk,  or  corn  so  shrivelled  that  there  is  no  nourishment  in  it.  Good 
wholesome  corn,  every  description  of  the  best  meal — such  as  barley-meal, 
Pollard's  buckwheat,  oatmeal,  cayenne  pepper-seeds,  and  greaves — made 
into  cakes,  and  given  hot,  is  one  of  the  most  fattening  and  flesh-making 
foods  for  poultry.  Little  chickens  thrive  best  if  they  are  given  chopped 
nettles,  with  a  little  butter-milk  thrown  over  them. 

The  following  is  a  food  on  which  our  poultry  will  fatten  very  quickly. 
Put  a  sufficient  quantity  of  rice  to  feed  the  fowls  you  wish  to  fatten  in  a 
saucepan,  with  some  skimmed  milk  ;  let  it  boil  until  the  rice  is  perfectly 
swelled  out,  and  then  add  a  little  sugar.  Feed  them  three  times  a  day  in 
earthenware  pans,  giving  them  only  as  much  as  will  quite  fill  them  at 
once.  Let  the  pans  be  washed  out  in  spring  water,  that  no  sourness 
may  be  conveyed  to  the  fowls,  as  that  will  prevent  them  fattening ;  give 
them  the  milk  the  rice  was  boiled  in,  and  clean  water,  to  drink.  By 
adopting  this  plan  the  flesh  will  have  a  clear  whiteness,  which  no  other 
food  gives  ;  and  when  it  is  considered  how  far  a  pound  of  rice  will  go, 
and  how  much  time  is  saved  by  this  method,  it  will  be  found  to  be  cheap. 
A  little  animal  food  mixed  with  vegetable  food  also  causes  poultry  to 
fatten  rapidly,  but  before  these  are  killed  they  should  for  a  few  days  have 
a  purely  vegetable  diet.  Another  method  of  fattening  fowls  is  by  cram- 
ming them,  which  no  doubt  fattens  them  very  shortly  ;  by  this  method 
you  may  have  fowls  ready  for  table  or  market  in  a  fortnight,  the  fowls 
weighing  from  five  to  seven  pounds.  A  good  fattening  food  for  fowls 
may  be  made  as  follows  : — Mix  the  different  meals  together  with  boiling 
water ;  then  add  suet,  knead  all  together,  and  give  in  balls  as  much  as  will 
rill  each  fowl.  By  this  treatment  they  will  fatten  very  rapidly,  and  this  food 
makes  them  look  beautifully  plump,  and  consequently  they  are  eagerly 
sought  for  in  the  market. 

We  will  now  say  a  few  words  as  to  the  different  descriptions  of  fowls, 
pointing  out  which  are  the  best  layers,  the  best  for  sitting,  and  the  best 
and  finest  for  the  table. 


412  Spanish,  Dorking,  Cochin  China  Fowls, 


It  is  very  hard  to  disabuse  some  people  of  their  prejudices,  and  many 
good  old-fashioned  people,  when  you  ask  them  what  description  of  fowl 
they  consider  best,  invariably  reply,  "The  old  barn-door."  Doubtless, 
they  are  a  useful  sort,  but  in  these  days  of  progress  poultry-keepers  gene- 
rally like  to  keep  pace  with  the  times  ;  and  it  is  no  more  expense  to  keep 
fowls  that  will  lay  eggs  all  the  year  round,  half  as  large  again  as  the  old 
barn-door  and  produce  chickens  in  March  the  size  nearly  of  a  common 
fowl. 

We  will  commence  with  the  Spanish — a  most  elegant  breed,  jet  black, 
with  a  white  face,  extending  in  the  male  bird  all  over  the  face  and  even 
under  the  beak  The  hens  of  these  fowls  never  sit,  so  the  eggs  must  be 
placed  under  a  common  hen.  There  is  one  drawback  in  the  Spanish 
breed  of  fowls — the  chickens  when  young  are  very  delicate,  and  greater 
care  must  be  devoted  to  them  ;  they  amply  repay  the  trouble,  as  the  hens 
lay  larger  eggs  than  any  other  kind  of  fowl.  There  are  several  varieties 
of  Spanish  ;  the  white  Spanish  ;  the  red-faced  white  Spanish  (these  latter 
are  very  good  layers,  and  commence  early) ;  the  Minorca,  a  Spanish 
fowl,  but  without  the  white  face — their  eggs  are  large,  and  they  will  sit ; 
lastly,  there  is  the  Andalusian,  very  fine-looking  fowls  :  these  also  are 
very  good  layers. 

The  Dorking  fowl,  which  may  easily  be  known  from  all  other  varieties 
of  fowl  from  having  five  toes,  is,  in  our  opinion,  one  of  the  best  fowls  a 
poultry-breeder  can  possibly  have.  It  is  described  as  being  an  excellent 
farm-yard  fowl,  being  a  good  layer,  a  close  sitter,  an  attentive  mother  ; 
the  chickens  also  grow  rapidly,  and  are  most  excellent  for  the  table.  The 
Cochin  China  is  also  a  very  great  favourite  with  poultry-feeders  ;  their 
large  size,  and  the  number  of  eggs  the  hens  lay,  naturally  led  to  their 
becoming  in  great  request ;  it  matters  not  how  cold  the  weather  may  be, 
even  in  deep  snow,  and  with  severe  frost,  you  may  always  depend  upon 
your  handsome  Cochins  providing  you  with  new-laid  eggs. 

There  is  another  description  of  fowl  which  no  breeder  should  be 
without,  and  that  is  the  Bramah  Pootra  ;  they  are  good  layers,  their 
eggs  are  a  very  good  size,  and  they  make  capital  mothers  ;  of  all  the  fowls 
we  have  ever  kept,  they  are  undoubtedly  the  best.  If  at  liberty,  they  will 
almost  keep  themselves  ;  and  even  if  confined,  they  thrive  as  well  as  any 
other  fowls.  They  fatten  quickly,  and  are  most  excellent  eating  ;  they 
run  to  a  tremendous  size;  when  full-grown  they  have  been  known  to  weigh 
from  twenty  to  twenty-five  pounds  a  pair.  Dr.  Bennett,  in  describing 
them,  says :  "  The  cock  is  mostly  white,  with  neck  hackles  pencilled  with 
black,  and  rump  hackles  of  the  palest  possible  shade  of  straw  colour  ;  the 
tail  is  black,  with  glossy  green  plume  feathers  ;  the  wings  pencilled  with 
black. 

"  The  pullets  are  white,  with  black  tails  ;  the  wings  and  neck  slightly 
pencilled  with  black,  the  comb  is  small  and  serrated.  Very  frequently 
they  have  a  perfect  pea-comb,  which  is  always  a  rare  indication  of 
fineness  of  flesh.  The  wattles  are  small,  but  the  ear  lobes  are  extremely 
large  and  pendulous.  The  legs  are  yellow,  and  usually  very  heavily 
feathered,  though  there  are  some  excellent  specimens  with  smooth 
legs." 

Another  writer  describes  them  better  than  they  have  ever  been  de- 
scribed before,  and  in  comparing  them  with  the  Cochin  China  goes  on  to 


Bramah  Pootra. — Malay.  —  Game  Fowls.  4 1 3 

say :  "  In  the  shape  of  Cochin  China  fowls,  no  one  can  fail  to  remark  the 
absence  of  breast,  which  is  indeed  one  characteristic,  as  the  lack  of  it 
enables  the  fluffy  thigh  to  become  more  apparent  ;  and  the  wedge-like 
shape  of  the  bird,  while  wide  behind  and  tapering  to  the  breast,  forms  the 
development  of  those  points  which  constitute  the  chief  beauties  in  that 
breed.  Now  in  the  Bramah  Pootra  this  lack  is  materially  supplied, 
inasmuch  as  there  is  a  breast  amply  developed,  and  possessing  a  rotun- 
dity approaching,  when  in  hand,  to  what  game-fowl  breeders  and 
amateurs  call  cleverness,  which  is  that  a  well-proportioned  fowl,  placed 
breast  downwards  on  the  palm  of  the  hand,  should  balance.  This  cannot 
be  when  the  breast  is  wanting.  A  lady  lately  imported  some  of  these 
birds,  and  after  they  had  been  in  charge  of  the  man  (who  had  had  the 
care  of  the  Cochins  for  years)  some  days,  asked  his  opinion.  'Madam,' 
said  he,  'these  will  get  fat  where  the  Cochins  will  starve.'"  The  Cochin 
seeks  its  roost  early,  and  besets  the  hen-house  door  ;  the  Bramah  Pootra 
always  roams  far  from  home  till  almost  dark.  We  have  seen  them,  like 
rooks,  following  a  man  at  the  plough,  and  pecking  in  the  newly  turned 
furrows  three  fields  from  home  ;  such  a  thing  is  seldom  or  never  seen  in 
others.  The  chickens  are  all  hatched  either  black  or  yellow  ;  at  the  age 
of  six  weeks  a  change  takes  place — the  black  get  gradually  grey,  and  look 
as  if  their  feathers  were  covered  with  a  cobweb,  while  the  yellow  become 
white  and  then  speckled  like  a  silver-pencilled  Hamburg  chicken.  They 
are  very  hardy,  less  expensive  to  keep,  and  are  quite  as  prolific  in  eggs  as 
the  Cochins. 

MALAY. 

The  Malay  fowl  is  a  fine,  handsome  looking  fowl,  stands  tall,  and  has 
a  very  upright  gait.  On  looking  at  its  comb,  you  would  almost  imagine 
it  had  been  dubbed,  as  is  done  with  game  cocks  ;  but  one  is  led  to  see  the 
necessity  of  this  naturally  dubbed  comb,  as  there  is  no  fowl  so  quarrelsome 
as  the  Malay.  They  have  been  known,  when  placed  in  front  of  a  looking- 
glass,  to  severely  injure  themselves  in  fighting  with  their  shadow.  The 
chickens  are,  perhaps,  the  most  ungainly  looking  things  when  young  that 
can  possibly  be  imagined  ;  half  fledged,  for  they  fledge  slowly,  with  long 
legs,  they  have  the  appearance  of  a  young  stork  without  the  long  bill. 
The  pullets  lay  very  early,  and  the  eggs  are  a  nice  medium  size  and  have 
a  tinted  shell.  It  is  always  advisable,  if  you  wish  to  propagate  the  breed, 
to  place  your  sitting  of  Malay  eggs  under  a  Dorking  hen — the  long  legs  of 
the  Malays  are  very  much  in  the  way  in  sitting,  whereas  the  short-legged 
Dorking  can  leave  her  nest  without  disturbing  or  cracking  the  eggs. 

GAME. 

The  Game  fowl  may  justly  be  called  the  pure  British  fowl,  and  there  is 
no  breed  of  fowl  that  can  in  any  way  compare  with  the  Game  in  the 
delicacy,  whiteness,  and  richness  of  flavour.  How  grand  the  Game  cock 
looks  with  his  gorgeous  black  and  red  plumage,  proudly  strutting,  and 
yet  attentively  watching  his  female  train,  and,  like  a  good  soldier  or 
citizen,  always  ready  to  protect  them  from  harm.  Some  are  very  spiteful. 
We  had  one  that  took  such  a  hatred  to  a  servant  that  he  could  never 
cross  the  yard  without  a  stick.     On  one  occasion  having  neglected  to  do 


414  Hamburg. — Polish  Fowls. 


so,  hearing  shrieks,  I  looked  out  of  rny  dressing-room  window,  and  then 
saw  the  cause.  The  cock  had  flown  up  to  this  tall  man's  throat,  h.9.d 
firmly  fixed  his  toes  in  his  waistcoat,  and  was  pecking  furiously  at  his  face. 
A  few  minutes'  more  delay  and  he  might  have  been  deprived  of  his  eye- 
sight. Nothing  can  daunt  the  spirit  of  the  thoroughbred  game  cock,  for 
when  unable  to  move,  and  lying  wounded  to  death,  he  will  crow  for 
crow  with  his  conqueror  as  long  as  life  lasts. 

The  hens  are  beautiful  birds,  marked  in  many  instances  exactly  like 
a  partridge.  The  chickens,  from  their  earliest  infancy,  are  pretty  also, 
and  their  pugnacity  is  shown  from  the  moment  their  combs  begin  to 
grow.  The  eggs  have  a  most  delicious  and  delicate  flavour,  but  are, 
generally  speaking,  of  a  moderate  size.  Many  people  object  to  keeping 
game  fowl  on  account  of  their  fighting  propensities,  as  very  many  in- 
stances have  been  known  where  a  whole  brood  have  been  destroyed  as 
soon  as  they  were  completely  feathered,  by  the  cocks  and  hens  (for  they 
fight  indiscriminately)  tearing  each  other's  eyes  out,  stripping  the  skin  off 
each  other's  heads  ;  in  fact,  so  wounded,  bruised,  disfigured,  and  injured 
do  they  become  that  it  has  been  necessary  to  wring  their  necks,  so  that 
the  expectation  of  the  breeder  has  been  utterly  disappointed,  and  his 
eggs  and  time  in  the  hatching  wasted. 

HAMBURG. 

We  will  now  devote  a  short  time  to  the  different  descriptions  of 
Hamburg  fowls,  or  more  commonly  called  every-day  layers,  or  everlasting 
layers.  They  are  most  profitable  fowls  to  keep,  as  they  eat  little  and  lay 
incessantly.  If  space  permit,  and  they  be  allowed  to  ramble,  they  will 
entirely  provide  for  themselves.     There  are  several  varieties. 

The  spangled  Hamburg,  gold  and  silver.  The  markings  on  the 
feathers  of  these  birds  are  very  curious,  being  a  black  spot  upon  each 
gold  or  silver  feather.  The  comb  is  also  most  peculiar  in  shape,  a  bright 
red-rose  comb,  ending  in  a  taper  spike  at  the  back  end. 

The  pencilled  Hamburgs  arc  indeed  beautiful  birds,  the  markings 
on  their  feathers  being  so  minutely  exact.  Instead  of  a  black  spot  on 
each  feather,  a  regular  pencilling  of  black  appears  on  the  gold  or  silver, 
as  the  variety  may  be  either  golden  or  silver  pencilled  Hamburgs. 

The  black  Hamburg  is  a  most  attractive  looking  bird  :  brilliant  jet 
black,  with  its  bright  red-rose  comb  and  pointed  spike,  and  its  being, 
like  the  other  breed  of  Hamburgs,  a  constant  layer,  will  generally  insure 
it  a  prominent  place  amongst  the  poultry-keeper's  stock  They  are  not  a 
large  fowl,  but  of  a  good  medium  size.  The  pencilled  and  black  arc 
rather  smaller,  generally  speaking,  than  the  spangled,  but  all  lay  equally 
well. 

POLISH. 

One  of  the  most  extraordinary  looking  fowls  is  the  Polish.  They 
are  generally  great  favourites,  from  their  useful  quality  as  layers, 
and  from  the  pretty  top-knot  or  tuft  on  their  head.  They  are  compact  in 
shape,  full  round-breasted,  and  look  well  on  the  table.  There  are  several 
varieties  of  them. 

The  white-crested  black  is  a  beautiful  fowl,  dark  black,  glossy 
plumage,  with  its  completely  white  tuft,  in  the  perfect  breed.     There 


La  Fleche. — Crci 'ccoiuf.  4 1 5 

should  not  be  a  feather  of  any  other  colour  in  the  tuft  ;  the  pure  white  is, 
however,  rarely  met  with,  as  it  is  generally  mixed  at  the  edges  with  a  few 
black  feathers. 

The  golden  Poland  is  truly  a  handsome  bird.  Every  feather  in  this 
description  should  be  golden,  from  the  tuft  to  every  feather  of  the  bird. 

Mr.  Richardson  gives  the  following  description  of  them  : — "  The 
spangled  Polish  is  a  bird  of  extraordinary  beauty,  extremely  rare,  and 
difficult  to  procure.  This  fowl  presents  a  symmetrical  and  regular  com- 
bination of  the  following  colours — viz.,  a  bright  orange,  a  clear  white,  a 
brilliant  green,  and  a  jetty  black,  softened  down  with  rich  pure  brown, 
every  feather  being  tipped  with  white,  so  as  to  produce  the  effect  whence 
has  been  derived  the  name  of  spangled.  The  colour  of  the  hen  is  a 
prevailing  golden  yellow,  with  white  spangles  like  the  cock.  In  the  cock 
the  thighs  are  black,  and  are  likewise,  though  in  a  less  degree,  marked 
and  spangled  with  black  and  golden  yellow.  The  hinder  end  of  the 
body  is  furnished  with  green  and  orange  brown  hackles,  and  the  tail  is 
carried  well  up.  The  flesh  of  these  birds  is  of  good  quality,  and  they  are 
very  prolific.  They  have  no  comb  or  beard,  the  top-knot  is  white,  and 
the  legs  clean  and  of  a  bluish  slate  colour/' 

LA    FLECHE. 

A  class  of  fowl  lately  introduced  from  France  is  a  bird  of  extra* 
ordinary  appearance,  from  the  fact  of  the  comb,  which  never  varies 
either  in  cock  or  hen,  being  so  dissimilar  to  that  of  the  combs  of  other 
fowls  ;  it  is  more  like  a  pair  of  straight  horns.  They  are,  however,  a  very 
handsome,  hardy  fowl,  with  a  bold  carriage,  are  reared  with  facility,  and 
are  profitable  to  the  dealer  as  well  as  to  the  housekeeper,  as  they  grow 
and  fatten  quickly,  are  soon  ready  for  market,  and  lay  very  large 
eggs.  La  Fleche  is  a  black  fowl— jet-black  in  fact— looking  like  black 
polished  marble  ;  and  what  adds  to  its  extraordinary  appearance  is  the 
fact  of  the  face  being  nearly  completely  free  from  feathers  and  of  a  bright 
red,  whilst  the  ear  lobes  arc  large,  almost  disproportionate,  and  quite 
white.  These  birds  are  more  suited  for  our  climate  than  either  of  the 
French  breeds  lately  introduced.  They  are  also  more  stylish  in  their 
appearance,  and,  although  they  stand  up  from  the  ground,  they  cannot  be 
denominated  leggy,  from  the  fact  of  their  breasts  being  full  and  their 
bodies  nicely  balanced. 

CBEVECOEUR. 

This  is  another  class  of  French  fowl,  but  not  so  worthy  of  considera* 
tion  for  a  poultry  breeder  as  the  last,  as  they  have  not  the  style  in  the 
first  instance,  and  are  not  so  well  adapted  to  our  changeable  climate.  It 
is  necessary  they  should  be  kept  in  as  warm  a  situation  as  may  be 
possible.  They  are  a  very  good  fowl  for  the  table,  and  the  pullets  fine 
and  ready  for  disposal  at  an  early  date.  They  also  lay  very  good  eggs 
and  do  not  sit,  which  to  many  people  is  considered  a  very  great  con- 
sideration. They  differ  from  the  Fleche  fowl  in  appeaiance,  as,  although 
they  are  black,  or  nearly  so,  they  have  a  large  crest  on  the  head,  in 
addition  to  which  they  have  the  spikes  or  horns  which  distinguish  La 
Fleche  in  front 


4i6 


THE    HOUDON 

io  the  last  we  shall  mention,  and  from  our  own  experience,  and  that  of 
others,  we  cannot  say  it  will  ever  become  a  decided  favourite,  as  it  has 
iess  to  recommend  it  than  any  French  visitors  we  have  been  favoured  with. 

BANTAMS. 

Before  quitting  the  subject  of  fowls,  we  must  describe  a  few  of  the 
various  classes  of  bantams.  Who  can  have  failed  to  observe  the  proud 
strut  of  the  bantam  cock,  surrounded  by  his  diminutive  train  of  hens  ;  he 
looks  like  a  Turk  in  his  seraglio.  To  have  a  perfect  breed  of 
them,  they  cannot  be  too  diminutive,  although  by  some  persons  they 
are  looked  upon  as  useless,  from  the  fact  that  there  is  not  very  much  to 
eat  on  a  fowl  which,  at  the  largest,  would  not  much  exceed  one  pound  in 
weight ;  their  flesh  is  rich  and  delicate,  and  their  eggs,  though  small, 
are  truly  delicious.  How  tempting  to  one  recovering  from  illness  ex- 
perience only  can  tell ;  when  a  large  egg  would  have  caused  nausea  and 
disgust,  the  little  bantam  egg,  from  its  size  alone,  amuses  and  tempts 
the  appetite. 

The  prettiest  class  of  all  is  the  Sebright  bantam,  raised  and  produced 
by  the  late  Sir  John  Sebright.  They  are  of  two  sorts,  the  gold-laced  and 
the  silver-laced.  The  former  have,  as  their  name  indicates,  a  pure 
golden  colour;  the  latter,  a  white,  approaching  French  white.  Each 
feather  is  as  distinctly  marked,  or  at  least  should  be,  with  a  lacing  or 
edging  of  black,  as  if  the  painter  had  been  called  upon  to  exercise  his 
art  and  add  to  the  already  beautiful  appearance  of  the  bird.  The  ban- 
tam cock  (pure)  throws  his  head  back  with  such  apparent  pride  in  himself 
and  disdain  of  others,  that  his  little  head,  surmounted  by  a  rose  comb, 
nearly  touches  his  squarely-cut  tail.  The  wings  also,  instead  of  being 
firmly  fixed  to  the  body  as  in  other  descriptions  of  poultry,  hang  loosely, 
in  a  sort  of  jaunty  manner,  until  they  nearly  touch  the  ground.  They 
have  blue  legs.  One  can  scarcely  see  them  for  their  wings.  They  are 
very  pugnacious,  and  have  a  lion's  spirit  in  a  very  small  body.  The 
convenience  of  keeping  bantams  is  that  where  there  is  little  space  you 
may  find  room  for  a  few,  and  tending  them,  and  breeding  them  (it  is  a 
little  difficult  to  do  so),  may  tend  to  amuse  and  pass  away  many  an  hour 
which  might  otherwise  prove  wearisome  and  full  of  ennui. 

The  Game  bantam,  as  its  name  indicates,  is  the  game  fowl  in  minia- 
ture. Take  the  black-breasted  red,  a  minikin  fowl,  with  all  the  pure 
points  of  the  Derby  breed — black  breast,  a  purple  band  across  the  wing, 
its  plumage  hard  and  crisp,  close-fitting  and  glossy,  making  the  little  game 
bantam  look  really  smaller  than  he  is. 

Black  and  white  bantams,  as  their  name  also  indicates,  should  be 
black  and  white,  and,  like  all  bantams,  should  be  as  diminutive  as  possible 
in  size,  with  double  combs  and  full  tails. 

The  White  bantam,  or  feather-legged  bantam,  is  now  extremely  rare. 
This  bird  was  the  pet  of  our  ancestors  in  days  gone  by.  These  bantams 
should  be  very  small,  falcon-backed,  and  feathered  with  long  quill  feathers 
to  the  extremity  of  the  toe,  thus  differing  from  Cochins,  that  are  only 
feathered  on  one  side  of  the  leg. 

Fowls  are  subject  to  various  diseases,  and  almost  all  they  suffer  from 


Diseases  of  Fowls.  417 


may  be  attributed  either  to  improper  feeding 
as  to  their  houses,  their  runs,  or  their  water,  and  in  some  measure  to  our 
variable  climate.  Fowls  in  pens,  even  kept  scrupulously  clean,  are  subject 
to  attacks  of  apoplexy,  and  a  fine  bird  may  be  thus  lost,  as  no  premonitory 
symptoms  show  themselves  to  allow  of  any  treatment  whatever,  even  if 
their  possessor  be  a  most  skilful  adept  in  the  management  of  poultry.  We 
have  often  known  a  fine  healthy  bird  drop  dead  from  his  perch.  It  may 
probably  arise  from  over-feeding,  and  not  being  able  to  take  the  exercise 
birds  in  their  natural  state  do  in  searching  for  food,  inflammation  of  the 
brain  sets  in,  and  they  are  dead  in  an  instant.  Be  careful,  then,  in  feed- 
ing, not  to  overdo  it,  but  feed  merely  in  proportion  to  the  exercise  the  fowls 
have  the  opportunity  of  taking. 

Many  chickens  are  lost  from  what  is  called  the  pip.  This  disease  is  not 
where  it  appears  to  be,  but  in  a  derangement  of  the  alimentary  canal.  Pip 
is  easily  discovered  by  the  appearance  of  the  tongue,  which  is  much  thick- 
ened, as  is  also  the  palate,  which  causes  a  difficulty  in  breathing,  and  makes 
them  gasp  as  if  choking.  You  find  them  unable  to  eat,  their  feathers  be- 
come ruffled,  the  fowl  pines,  and  at  last  dies.  The  remedy  which  has  gene- 
rally proved  successful  is  to  place  the  chick  in  a  warm  place;  give  it  clean 
wholesome  food  of  bread  and  milk,  fresh  vegetables  chopped  small,  with 
some  boiled  potatoes  mixed  with  oatmeal,  all  blended  well  together,  and 
plenty  of  pure  water.  A  little  castor  oil  (always  a  safe  medicine)  may  be 
given  ;  and  if  a  tooth-wash,  composed  ui  borax,  myrrh,  and  water,  be  at 
hand,  dilute  some  and  apply  it  to  the  tongue  and  palate,  but  on  no  account 
remove  the  thickness  with  the  nail,  or  in  any  forcible  manner.  With  care 
and  attention  to  this  treatment  you  may  save,  in  almost  every  instance, 
your  chicken  from  death  consequent  on  the  attacks  of  pip. 

Gapes  are  very  fatal  to  the  generality  of  poultry  ;  and  although  not  gene- 
rally known,  this  disease  arises  from  the  presence  of  a  worm  in  the  wind- 
pipe. The  symptoms  are  easily  discernible.  The  voice  is  completely 
altered,  the  eyes  appear  full  of  water,  you  observe  a  running  at  the  nose, 
they  have  no  relish  for  their  food,  mope  about,  and  at  last  die.  We  have 
tried  several  remedies,  and  in  most  cases  with  success.  The  first  thing 
to  be  done  is  to  remove  those  affected  from  the  remainder  of  the  stock  ; 
place  them  in  a  dry,  warm  room,  and,  taking  each  bird  separately,  puff 
tobacco  smoke  down  its  throat.  This  causes  expectoration,  and  in  many 
instances  causes  the  worms  to  be  dislodged.  A  little  Scotch  snuff  may 
also  be  thrust  down  the  throat.  Others  have  used  salt  as  a  remedy.  A 
little  sulphur  should  be  put  into  the  water ;  and  even  with  their  meal  a 
little  powdered  sulphur  and  ginger  has  often  proved  beneficial.  We  have 
also  tried  gin,  or,  if  not  at  hand,  a  little  spirits  of  turpentine,  mixed  with 
their  food,  and  made  into  pills.  Where  poultry  are  improperly  fed,  or  if 
the  fowl-house  be  not  properly  ventilated,  or  if  the  house  and  run  be  not 
kept  scrupulously  clean,  and  if  attention  be  not  paid  to  giving  a  good  sup- 
ply of  ground  mortar  and  ashes,  gapes  will  prove  the  cause  of  a  very  swift 
decrease  in  your  stock  of  poultry. 

Fowls  are  also  subject  to  inflammation  of  the  lungs,  and  if  you  can  cure 
them  of  it  you  must  be  cautious  of  breeding  from  them  ;  for  although  with 
care  you  might  bring  the  fowl  into  an  apparently  healthy  state,  it  would 
prove  useless  as  a  breeder  and  unfit  for  food.  Fowls  suffer  as  much  from 
moulting  as  from  any  complaint  they  are  subject  to,  as  may  be  imagined 

E  E 


4  i  8  Ducks. 

from  its  causing  an  entire  change  (gradually  though)  of  their  plumage. 
During  this  change  you  can  expect  no  eggs  ;  and  while  the  process  is 
completing  itself  they  must  be  kept  warm,  a  generous  diet  given  them, 
and  above  all  things  clean  water  ;  a  rusty  piece  of  iron  should  be  placed 
in  it.  Pills  made  of  cayenne-pepper  and  meal  should  be  given  them  in 
addition  to  their  food  ;  it  will  throw  a  warmth  into  their  system.  Should 
they  appear  to  suffer  much,  as  chickens  frequently  do,  a  little  chopped  meat 
and  parched  corn  may  be  given  with  advantage  as  part  of  their  food. 

With  these  few  remarks  we  here  close  what  wc  have  to  say  as  far  as  re- 
gards fowls,  being  well  assured  that  a  strict  attention  being  paid  to  the 
simple  rules  laid  down  as  to  feeding  and  cleanliness,  will  insure  the 
poultry-keeper  a  reward  which  will  well  repay  him  for  any  trouble  or  ex- 
pense he  may  have  experienced  or  incurred. 

DUCKS. 

Ducks  may  be  kept  at  a  trifling  expense,  and  although  it  has  been  laid 
down  as  a  sine  qua  11011  that  to  attempt  to  keep  them  without  having  a 
pond  on  the  premises  is  absurd,  we  are  able  to  assert  from  the  experience 
of  years  that  they  will  thrive  and  do  well  without  one.  A  duck  will  eat 
almost  anything  and  everything,  and  although  a  gourmand,  is  in  no  way 
fastidious  as  to  the  description  of  food.  All  refuse  from  the  house, 
vegetables,  green  or  otherwise,  boiled  with  meal,  and  put  into  pans  as 
often  as  they  are  empty,  is  all  they  require.  They  will  fatten  themselves. 
A  place  of  shelter  must  be  provided  for  them.  One  part  of  a  fowl-house 
will  answer  the  purpose  well,  separated  from  the  other  part  with  wire 
netting,  so  that  the  fowls  may  not  have  the  opportunity  of  roosting  over 
them.  A  little  water  will  of  course  prove  advantageous.  We  sank  an 
old  tub  that  had  been  used  for  scalding  pigs  in  the  ground,  well  puddled 
the  outside  with  clay  to  render  it  water-tight,  and  in  this  miniature  pond 
our  ducks  throve  in  a  most  astonishing  manner.  WTe  were  always  very 
successful  in  rearing  early  ducks.  Their  price  in  early  spring  well  repays 
any  trouble  or  expense  (in  moderation)  you  may  incur.  Ducks  will  not 
bear  confinement.  They  must  be  allowed  to  ramble  about  in  the  fields  or 
in  the  garden.  They  will  do  no  mischief  there,  being  very  fond  of  slugs 
and  snails.  They  do  very  much  more  good  than  one  gives  them  credit 
for.  Be  careful  there  are  no  rat-holes  near  the  place  you  have  selected  to 
keep  your  ducks,  as,  if  there  be  rats  on  the  premises,  you  will  have  but  a 
very  poor  account  of  your  ducklings.  We  lost  the  greater  part  of  a 
brood  in  one  night.  The  bedding  most  suited  for  ducks  is  straw,  rushes, 
fern-leaves,  or  haybands  opened  out.  This  should  be  cleaned  out  every 
morning.  One  good  drake  will  be  perfectly  content  with  from  four  to  five 
ducks,  as  it  is  only  since  the  civilization  or  domestication  of  the  duck  that 
he  has  become  a  monogamist,  as  in  the  wild  state  they  pair  and  are 
most  constant  and  attentive  to  each  other,  until  the  duck  begins  sitting, 
when  the  drake  leaves  Ihe  female  and  joins  any  other  drake  whose  family 
affairs  keep  the  duck  closely  occupied  at  home.  Many  people  are  in  the 
habit  of  placing  duck's  eggs  under  a  hen.  For  rearing  early  ducks  this  is 
a  very  good  plan  to  adopt,  as  you  more  frequently  find  a  hen  wishing  to 
sit  early  than  a  duck  ;  but  to  insure  early  ducklings,  a  little  care  must 
be  taken  with  them.     In  a  cow-house,  if  possible,  have  some  pens  or 


Gcesc. 


■419 


hutches  nailed  against  the  wall,  just  large  enough  to  hold  two  or  three 
ducklings,  and  let  these  be  fed  regularly  several  times  a  day,  and  in  a  few 
weeks  they  will  be  fit  for  market  or  table.  They  must  be  kept  scrupu- 
lously clean,  or  they  will  be  liable  to  cramps,  and  you  will  find  their  limbs 
distorted.  In  Buckinghamshire,  famous  for  its  breed  of  Aylesbury  ducks, 
many  cottages  are  in  the  early  spring  converted  into  breeding  and  rearing 
houses  for  early  ducks  on  the  plan  above  described.  From  nine  to  eleven 
eggs  should  be  placed  under  the  duck,  according  to  its  size.  If  a  very 
large  bird  twelve  or  even  fourteen  may  be  placed  under  her.  The  nest 
should  be  comfortable,  made  of  broken  straw.  As  ducks  will  always 
cover  their  nests  when  they  leave  them,  to  hide  the  eggs,  it  is  better 
to  leave  a  little  loose  hay  about  that  she  may  do  so  when  quitting  her 
nest  to  take  her  morning  bath  and  her  necessary  food.  When  the 
ducklings  are  hatched  they  should  not  be  allowed  to  go  into  the  water  too 
early,  as  having  no  feathers  then,  but  merely  down,  they  soon  get 
saturated  and  drowned.  When  once  they  are  fledged  they  cannot  by  any 
possibility  become  wet,  as  their  oily  feathers  throw  off  the  water.  Ducks 
will  travel  a  long  distance  in  search  of  water.  They  have  been  known  to  go 
upwards  of  a  mile  for  it.  It  is  well  to  ascertain  before  you  allow  them  to 
frequent  such  ponds  that  there  are  no  pike  or  eels  there,  as  very  often  a  fine 
duck  will  be  carried  off  by  the  former,  and  young  ones  carried  off  by  the 
latter.  It  is  very  interesting  to  watch  them  on  their  journey  to  and  from 
the  pond,  following  each  other  in  single  file  like  troops  in  a  narrow  defile. 
Do  not  be  anxious  about  your  ducks  if  they  are  absent  all  day  ;  in 
the  evening  they  will  return  full  of  food  without  any  expense  to  their 
owner. 

Ducks  begin  to  lay  generally  in  February,  and  the  eggs  should  be 
taken  away  as  soon  as  laid,  leaving  one  always  as  a  nest  egg,  which 
should  be  plainly  marked.  As  soon  as  you  see  the  duck  inclined 
to  sit,  let  them  remain.  A  duck  sits  thirty  days,  and  during  that  time  it 
will  require  but  little  attention,  except  to  see  there  is  food  at  hand  for 
the  duck  when  she  leaves  her  nest.  It  takes  about  three  weeks  to  fatten 
the  young  ducks,  or  in  fact  any  ducks.  Leave  plenty  of  food  for  them 
about ;  however  coarse  it  may  be  matters  not.  If  you  have  water  near  at 
hand  on  your  own  premises,  so  much  the  better.  Their  laying-places 
should  then  be  placed  as  near  the  water  as  possible.  Small  wooden 
houses,  divided  in  the  middle  with  a  door  at  each  end.  An  old  box 
makes  a  very  good  and  inexpensive  duck-house.  Although  water  is  the 
duck's  natural  element,  when  weak  and  young  they  should  be  placed 
under  cover,  as  they  are  very  liable  to  cramp  before  they  are  properly 
fledged. 

GEESE 

Are  without  exception  the  least  expensive  poultry  to  keep.  If  they  can  be 
permitted  to  roam  about  at  large,  their  great  delight  is  to  wander  into 
green  lanes  and  peck  about  in  the  ditches  at  the  side  of  the  road.  The 
largest  description  of  geese  are  of  course  the  best,  as  also  are  the  white 
and  grey.  The  time  geese  sit  is  generally  thirty  days,  but  in  mild  weather 
you  may  expect  a  hatch  a  few  days  sooner  ;  let  them  have  plenty  of  food, 
such  as  scalded  bran  and  oats  twice  a  day  ;  that  is,  early  in  the  morning 
before  they  commence  their  ramble,  and  in  the  evening  on  their  return? 

E  E  2 


42 o  The  Turkey. 


All  poultry  fetches  a  good  price  early  in  the  season  in  the  London  market, 
high  prices  being  given  for  green  geese.  The  best  and  quickest  food  for 
fattening  geese  is  oatmeal  and  peas,  or  any  good  grain  mixed  with  skim 
milk  or  buttermilk.  It  is  a  waste  of  time  to  give  bad  corn.  Begin  to 
fatten  when  about  six  weeks  old.  Feed  well  for  about  three  months 
on  this  description  of  food,  and  the  green  geese  will  well  repay  you. 
As  with  other  poultry  geese  must  be  kept  perfectly  clean,  and  punctually 
fed.  You  will  generally  find  that  one  gander  will  be  sufficient  for  four  or 
five  geese.  During  the  time  the  goose  is  sitting,  the  gander  is  a  perfect 
model,  sitting  by  her  the  whole  time,  and  very  determined  to  shield  her 
from  harm.  They  are  at  these  times  very  spiteful.  When  the  goslings 
are  hatched,  they  should  be  penned  for  a  few  days  with  the  goose  on  a 
dry  grass  plot,  and  she  should  have  plenty  of  food  within  easy  reach  of 
her  and  the  young  ones.  Any  green  vegetables  chopped  small,  oatmeal 
made  into  cakes  and  broken  small,  and  similar  food  will  soon  cause  them 
to  thrive.  Surrey  and  Lincolnshire  produce  thousands  of  geese  every  year, 
Lincolnshire  more  especially.  Some  years  since,  before  the  Continent 
was  opened  to  us  for  traffic  of  every  description,  we  depended  entirely 
upon  our  home  supply  of  geese.  Pennant,  in  his  description  of  the 
goose,  after  showing  the  way  they  breed  and  rear  geese  in  Lincolnshire, 
gives  us  an  insight  into  the  cruelty  (for  such  it  appears  to  us  to  have  been) 
practised  in  plucking  the  geese  for  their  feathers.  The  geese  are  plucked 
five  times  in  the  year.  The  first  plucking  is  at  Lady-day  for  feathers  and 
quills,  and  the  same  is  renewed  four  times  more  between  this  and 
Michaelmas  for  feathers  only.  The  old  geese  submit  quietly  to  the  opera- 
tion ;  but  the  young  ones  are  very  noisy  and  unruly.  We  once  saw  this 
performed,  and  observed  that  goslings  of  six  weeks  old  were  not  spared, 
for  their  tails  were  plucked,  as  we  were  told,  to  habituate  them  early  to  what 
they  are  to  endure.  If  the  season  prove  cold,  numbers  of  the  geese  die 
by  this  barbarous  custom.  When  the  flocks  are  numerous,  about  ten 
pickers  are  employed,  each  with  a  coarse  apron  up  to  his  chin.  Vast 
numbers  of  geese  are  driven  annually  to  London  to  supply  the  markets, 
among  them  are  the  superannuated  geese  and  ganders  (called  the  cog- 
mags)  which,  by  a  long  course  of  plucking,  prove  uncommonly  tough  and 
dry. 

THE    TURKEY. 

The  turkey  is  a  bird  so  well  known,  it  is  almost  superfluous  to  describe 
it ;  for  who  is  there  that  has  not  heard  the  gobble-gobble  of  the  noble- 
looking  turkey-cock,  with  his  proud,  defiant  strut,  his  widely-expanded 
tail,  his  neck  like  the  brightest  coral,  and  the  quickly-changing  colours  of 
the  skin  of  the  head  when  aggravated  by  the  sight  of  such  a  colour  as  a 
scarlet  or  red  coat,  cloak,  or  petticoat.  The  cocks  are  decidedly  quarrel- 
some and  vindictive,  and  have  no  really  kindly  feelings  towards  the  hens, 
as  they  attack  them  indiscriminately.  A  game  cock,  though  smaller  in  size, 
has  been  known  often  to  give  this  farmyard  bully  a  thrashing  such  as 
could  scarcely  be  imagined  from  its  comparative  smallness  ;  but  being 
large  and  heavy,  the  turkey  cocks  are  unable  to  use  their  spurs  with  the 
same  activity  as  the  game  cock.  When  young,  turkeys  are  very  delicate, 
and  require  the  very  greatest  attention.  Some  people  recommend  that 
three  peppercorns  should  be  put  down  the  chicks'  throats  as  soon  as 


The  Turkey. 


hatched  ;  it  can  do  no  harm,  and  as  it  is  necessary  to  remove  every  chick 
from  the  nest  as  soon  as  hatched,  it  may  be  as  well  to  give  the  pepper- 
corns, as  they  may  incite  a  little  warmth  in  the  chick.  Place  them  as 
they  leave  the  shell,  in  a  basket  with  wadding,  warm  flannel,  and  feathers, 
and  as  soon  as  all  are  hatched,  put  them  under  the  hen.  Do  not  at- 
tempt to  feed  them  or  cram  them  for  some  three  or  four  hours  after  they 
are  hatched ;  by  attempting  to  cram  them  you  may  cause  injury  to  the 
beak,  which  (as  may  be  imagined)  is  naturally  very  tender.     Very  shortly 


The  Common  Turkey 

you  will  see  the  chicks  looking  for  food,  so  some  must  be  placed  conve- 
niently for  them,  and  the  more  simple  the  variety  the  better  ;  for  instance, 
eggs  boiled  hard,  cheese-parings  cut  small,  in  fact,  minced ;  bread-and- 
milk,  with  chopped  wormwood  or  boiled  nettles,  are  rubbed  together  and 
made  into  a  sort  of  dry  paste— the  tops  of  onions  with  a  little  chopped 
parsley  may  be  added.  The  hen  turkey  makes  a  bad  mother  ;  she  will 
often  go  about  with  one  chick,  and  leave  the  remainder,  or  tread  upon 
them  and  kill  them.     The  food  must  be  thrown  to  the  chicks  alone^  as 


422  The  Turkey. 


the  hen  is  so  greedy  she  will  devour  it  all  else.  You  may  vary  the  food 
for  turkey  chicks  by  giving  them  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed,  mixed  with 
roasted  turnip,  kneaded  into  a  paste  with  barleymeal  or  oatmeal.  Do 
not  neglect  a  plentiful  supply  of  clean  water,  in  pans  very  shallow  to  pre- 
vent the  possibility  of  their  falling  in,  as  wet  at  that  early  stage  is  most 
injurious  to  them.  It  will  be  necessary  to  keep  both  hen  and  chicks  under 
cover  for  a  week  at  least,  and  when  they  are  allowed  out  with  the  hen, 
watch  them  with  a  careful  eye,  so  that  they  may  not  be  exposed  to  the 
fatal  effects  of  showers  of  rain  ;  as  they  grow  they  will  gain  experience, 
and  will  make  for  shelter  on  the  first  threatenings  of  a  shower.  You 
should  also  be  careful  not  to  allow  them  out  too  early  in  the  morning, 
before  the  dew  is  off  the  ground,  or  to  allow  them  to  remain  too  long  in 
the  evening  ;  they  should  be  housed  before  the  dew  begins  to  fall.  When 
your  chicks  are  about  two  months  old,  you  will  be  able  to  distinguish  the 
hens  from  the  cock  birds,  the  latter  showing  growth  of  comb  and  the 
rough  coral  appearance  on  the  neck.  You  must  now  be  more  than  ever 
watchful,  as  your  chicks  are  chicks  no  longer,  but  turkey  poults.  If  it  is 
your  desire  to  have  a  good  strong,  hardy  brood  of  turkeys,  good  feeding 
is  now  most  essential,  and  if  persisted  in  from  this  time  will  obviate  the 
necessity  of  cramming  for  Christmas.  It  is  a  most  mistaken  policy  and  a 
false  economy  to  merely  keep  your  stock  alive  ;  they  should  always  be  in 
good  condition.  It  is  more  economical  to  feed  poultry  that  have  had 
always  a  generous  diet,  than  to  endeavour  to  feed  and  then  cram  those  that 
have  been  kept  at  the  point  of  starvation.  The  food  for  bringing  turkeys 
to  the  degree  of  excellence  and  flavour  which  we  expect  at  our  Christmas 
feast,  is  or  should  be  composed  of  sodden  oats  or  barley,  oatmeal,  barley- 
meal,  boiled  vegetables — turnip-tops,  cabbage,  nettles — and  a  little  wheaten 
flour,  all  well  kneaded  into  a  paste,  with  the  addition  of  rice  boiled  in 
skimmed  milk.  This  description  of  food  will  render  them  juicy  and 
white  and  fit  for  the  spit  in  one  month  from  the  day  of  really  commencing 
to  feed.  Very  many  people  cram  them,  but  turkeys  are  so  ravenous  that 
cramming  is  quite  unnecessary.  They  should  be  fed  near  home,  as  tra- 
velling for  food  when  fattening  robs  them  of  their  flesh.  It  is  of  great 
assistance  in  fattening  the  turkey,  if  melted  suet  or  refuse  of  tallow  be 
mixed  with  their  food  ;  if  unable  to  procure  tallow-refuse,  linseed-meal 
may  be  added.  A  little  oilcake  sparingly  administered  we  have  known 
make  fat  rapidly.  Do  not  overdo  it,  as  it  may  induce  a  flavour  in  the  bird. 
On  no  account  give  turkeys  pigeons'  food,  such  as  peas,  vetches,  or  tares  ; 
although  a  favourite  food  of  the  pigeon  it  is  poison  to  a  turkey. 

Having  tried  to  impress  upon  the  turkey-feeder  the  care  he  should 
take  with  the  young  brood,  attention  must  also  be  paid  to  them  as  they 
grow  to  maturity.  They  are  liable  to  the  diseases  common  to  poultry 
in  general :  care  is  the  best  doctor,  and  attending  to  the  simple  remedies 
given  on  the  subject  of  fowls,  will  in  most  instances  be  sufficient.  A  good 
lock  is  almost  an  essential  for  the  turkey-house,  as  great  disappointment 
would  be  experienced  as  well  as  a  great  loss  incurred,  if  at  the  last 
moment  your  turkeys,  fit  for  table,  were  appropriated  by  some  midnight 
marauder,  either  biped  or  quadruped.  The  fox  is  very  partial  to  a  good 
fat  turkey,  and  although  in  some  places  subscriptions  are  raised  by  the 
advocates  of  fox-hunting  to  defray  losses  caused  by  Reynard's  attacks  on 
the  poultry-yards,  it  is  but  a  poor  satisfaction  to  know  that  all  one's 


Pigeons.  423 

anxiety  and  trouble  in  rearing  a  brood,  have  been  solely  for  the  benefit 
of  Mr.  Reynard,  the  fox. 

Turkeys  may  be  made  to  attain  almost  any  size  ;  they  often  reach  the 
enormous  weight  of  twenty-five  pounds.  In  some  instances  (rare  ones, 
though)  they  have  weighed  ten  pounds  more.  Norfolk  turkeys  are  gene- 
rally in  great  request,  but  if  you  start  with  a  good  stock,  feed  them  well, 
and  pay  attention  to  them,  whatever  county  or  town  you  live  in,  you  will 
not  be  ashamed  to  show  your  turkeys,  either  for  size  or  flavour,  with  the 
best  raised  in  that  famous  turkey  district.  The  eggs  are  considered  very 
delicate  eating,  and  as  the  hen  sits  only  once,  one  sitting  occupying  thirty 
days,  you  may  have  an  abundant  supply  for  home  consumption  and  for 
disposal.  Turkeys  vary  in  colour  :  the  best  and  strongest  are  the  green? 
looking  black — they  approach  more  closely  to  the  wild  bird  in  colour  \ 
some  are  pink-white,  others  speckled  brown  and  whiie,  but  the  hardiest 
and  the  easiest  to  fatten  is  the  dark  description  of  bird, 

PIGEONS, 

Pigeons  are  very  profitable  things  to  keep,  as  they  breed  every  month, 
but  they  must  be  well  attended  to  and  have  plenty  of  food.  They,  like 
poultry,  must  be  kept  very  clean.  The  cot,  which  should  face  the  south- 
east, should  have  sand  strewed  at  the  bottom  about  once  a  fortnight,  and 
all  dirt  removed  at  the  same  time.  They  hatch  two  birds  at  each  sitting. 
The  young  are  perhaps  the  most  unsightly-looking  creatures  imaginable. 
They  are  unable  to  feed  themselves,  but  the  parents  are  most  attentive 
up  to  a  certain  period  ;  as  soon  as  they  consider  the  young  should  leave 
the  cot,  every  persuasion  is  used  by  them  to  encourage  them  to  do  so, 
but  if  unsuccessful  by  entreaty  or  persuasion,  they  forcibly  eject  them, 
and  make  them  seek  their  own  food.  If  pigeons  are  kept  for  ornament 
only,  select  Fantails,  Pouters,  Tumblers,  and  the  Carrier  pigeon ;  if  for 
profit,  the  Blue  Rock  is  the  best  description.  The  best  food  for  them  is 
tares  and  peas.  Plenty  of  water  is  a  great  essential.  After  dry  weather, 
you  will  see  pigeons  revelling  in  a  bath,  with  their  wings  fully  extended, 
so  that  no  part  of  their  body  may  be  deprived  of  the  benefit  of  a  really 
good  ablution.  Starlings  are  great  enemies  to  them.  Should  there  be 
any  of  these  birds  located  near  your  pigeon-cot,  immediately  destroy 
them,  or  say  farewell  to  pigeons.  They  suck  their  eggs,  occupy  their 
nests,  and,  in  fact,  entirely  root  out  and  destroy  the  brood  of  pigeons. 
wSparrows  are  also  very  annoying  to  them,  as  they  will  build  in  the 
pigeon-holes.  Do  not  keep  too  many  cock  birds  among  your  pigeons, 
as  they  are  very  quarrelsome,  and  soon  thin  the  dovecot.  Pigeons 
are  fond  of  salt,  and,  as  it  is  very  essential  to  their  well-doing,  there 
should  always  be  a  lump  of  rock-salt  for  them  to  peck  at,  or  a  large  lump 
of  clay  placed  near  the  house,  thoroughly  saturated  with  brine  that  may 
no  longer  be  required  for  domestic  purposes.  They  are  subject  to  many 
diseases  common  to  poultry.  The  universal  remedy  for  all  diseases  of 
pigeons  may  be  summed  up  in  two  words — bay-salt  and  cummin-seed, 
mixed.  Should  they  prove  scabby,  as  sometimes  happens,  on  their  backs 
and  breasts,  prepare  a  paste,  made  of  the  following  ingredients  : — A 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  bay-salt,  the  same  quantity  of  common  salt,  a 


424  Pigeons. 


pound  of  fennel  seeds,  a  pound  of  dill  seed,  the  same  quantity  of  cummin- 
seed,  and  an  ounce  of  assafcetida  ;  mix  with  some  fine  wheaten  flour  and 
some  well-worked  clay,  beat  all  well  and  thoroughly  together,  put  it  into 
garden  saucers,  and  bake  in  the  oven ;  when  cold,  put  this  paste  inside 
the  dovecot.  The  pigeons  will  eat  it  with  avidity,  and  be  rapidly  cured. 
It  is  well  to  cultivate  the  breed  of  Carrier  pigeons,  as  no  one  can  tell  how 
soon  the  necessity  may  arise  for  making  these  useful  birds  the  messengers 
of  state  secrets  ;  or  they  may  be  used  between  friends  as  a  safe  convey- 
ance of  correspondence,  escaping  thereby  the  espionage  of  the  post- 
office  in  some  countries.  A  friend  of  ours  was  in  the  constant  habit  of 
corresponding  by  Carrier  pigeon.  The  rate  they  fly  at,  and  the  distance 
they  travel,  is  almost  beyond  belief.  Under  their  little  wings  those  most 
intelligent  pigeons  of  their  breed  have  not  known  that  the  fate  of 
dynasties  or  families  has  been  confided  to  their  care.  Some  of  these 
messengers  of  peace,  of  love,  or  of  war,  have  been  known  to  have  carried 
upwards  of  twelve  hundred  messages.  During  the  calamitous  Franco-Prus- 
sian war,  upwards  of  fifteen  thousand  messages  were  carried.  Readers 
of  the  Times  may  have  observed  at  the  commencement  of  the  siege  of 
Paris,  the  "  agony,"  or  second  column  of  that  paper,  with  advertisements 
to  or  from  families  in  Paris  to  their  relatives  in  England  or  abroad.  In 
less  than  three  weeks  the  whole  front  page  of  that  journal,  as  well  as  half 
the  second  page,  was  filled  with  that  description  of  advertisement,  and 
the  greater  part  of  these  were  conveyed  by  the  trusty  Carrier  pigeon. 

GUINEA    FOWLS. 

Should  you  have  sufficient  space,  Guinea  fowls  may  be  kept,  as» 
although  the  eggs  are  smaller  than  the  fowl  egg,  you  will  have  many  of 
them,  for  they  commence  laying  in  April  or  May  and  continue  to  do  so 
the  whole  summer.  They  are  of  a  very  rich  flavour.  Guinea  fowls  will 
not  bear  confinement,  being  of  a  rambling  disposition  ;  consequently  they 
must  he  carefully  watched,  or  they  will  lay  far  away  from  home,  in  a 
hedgerow,  perhaps,  and  remain  absent  until  the  hen  returns  for  you  to 
welcome  her  with  her  young  brood. 

It  is  a  matter  of  impossibility  to  discover  their  nests  ;  the  only  certain 
method  is  to  watch  the  movements  of  the  cock,  for  while  the  hen  is 
laying  his  attention  is  very  great,  and  where  he  is  you  may  be  certain  of 
finding  your  eggs.  As  it  is  uncertain,  from  their  rambling  propensities, 
when  they  will  take  to  sitting  (they  may  sit  late  in  the  season,  when  the 
weather  will  be  too  cold  for  the  chicks)  it  is  advisable  to  secure  some 
eggs  early  in  the  season  and  place  them  under  a  common  hen  ;  from 
eighteen  to  twenty  eggs  may  be  placed  under  a  good-sized  hen.  You 
will,  if  fortunate,  secure  a  brood  of  guinea  chicks  about  the  middle  of 
June.  They  are  very  delicate,  require  great  warmth,  and  careful  feeding. 
Rice,  boiled  in  milk  until  perfectly  swelled,  is  an  excellent  food,  as  is  also 
bread  treated  in  the  same  manner.  Many  people  treat  the  chick  as  they 
do  the  turkey  chick,  by  giving  it  a  few  peppercorns  as  soon  as  hatched. 
The  hens  sit  twenty-six  days  generally,  so  if  you  collect  your  eggs  early 
in  May,  you  will  have  a  very  early  brood,  with  all  the  benefit  of  a  long 
summer  before  them,  so  that  they  will  be  full-grown  birds  before  the 
biting  frosts  of  winter  set  in.     They  are  inexpensive  birds  to  keep,  as, 


Pea  Fowl  425 


from  rambling  about  constantly,  they  pretty  well  contrive  to  get  their  own 
living.  On  seeing  a  Guinea  fowl  walking  about,  you  would  imagine  it 
was  quite  a  large  bird  :  it  has  a  most  deceptive  appearance,  the  feathers 
hanging  much  more  loosely  than  the  common  fowl's.  When  plucked, 
they  very  seldom  exceed  the  fowl  in  size.  Some  old  friends  of  mine  were 
frequently  in  the  habit  (when  late  in  the  season  for  pheasants)  of  serving 
young  Guinea  fowls  as  a  substitute,  and  a  very  excellent  one  they  were. 
Having  taken  the  precaution  to  preserve  some  feathers  from  the  tail  of 
the  cock  pheasant,  the  Guinea  hen,  with  its  borrowed  plumes,  often  did 
excellent  duty  for  its  more  gaudily-plumed  substitute.  You  can  never 
induce  them  to  roost  in  the  fowl-house  ;  as  soon  as  dusk  commences,  you 
hear  them  calling  to  each  other  in  that  peculiar  note,  harsh,  grating,  like 
a  wheel  grinding,  which  is  one  reason  some  people  assign  for  not  keeping 
them.  They  generally  roost  in  branches  of  trees,  and,  like  boys  playing 
"  follow  the  leader ,"  as  soon  as  one  mounts,  the  others  follow  in  succession. 
There  is  little,  if  any,  difference  observable  between  the  cock  and  hen 
bird ;  on  a  close  inspection,  you  may  see  the  helmet-shaped  crest,  with 
which  their  head  is  crowned,  larger  in  the  cock  than  in  the  hen,  and  her 
wattles  are  also  different  in  colour  and  smaller,  the  cock's  being  blue  and 
large,  those  of  the  hen  red  and  small. 

THE     PEA    FOWL, 

Though  last  in  our  list  of  poultry,  is  by  no  means  the  least.  It  is  not 
in  every  establishment  that  this  bird  can  be  kept,  as,  being  of  a  very 
rambling  disposition,  it  requires  space.  It  loves  to  roam  in  shrubberies 
and  extensive  pleasure  grounds,  and  to  such  places  it  is  a  most  appro- 
priate ornament.  Who  can  fail  to  be  struck  with  admiration  at  the  sur- 
prising beauty  of  the  plumage  of  the  peacock,  strutting  along  in  majestic 
grandeur,  the  tail  as  it  is  generally,  but  erroneously,  called,  spread  ?  Those 
splendidly-marked  feathers  we  see  expanded  are  not  the  tail  proper,  but 
the  feathers  that  cover  the  tail ;  it  is  nearly,  or  completely,  covered  by 
them.  The  tail  proper  consists  of  abcat  eighteen  feathers,  of  a  brown, 
rusty  hue,  which  serve  as  a  support  for  the  beautifully-marked  feathers 
which  we  generally  call  the  tail. 

The  hen  is  not  so  splendid  as  the  cock,  but  has  an  aigrette  on  its  head 
the  same  as  the  cock.  Peacocks  are  very  shy  birds.  The  hen  generally 
selects  some  very  sheltered  retired  spot  for  her  nest.  This  is  not  so  much  to 
protect  her  eggs  from  human  enemies  as  it  is  to  hide  them  from  the  pea- 
cock, who  will  destroy  every  egg  that  he  might  see.  The  same  also  would 
be  the  fate  of  the  pea  chicks.  He  would  kill  every  one  he  might  meet  by 
pecking  them  on  the  crown  of  the  head  before  the  protecting  feathers 
sprout.  They  will  not  leave  the  nest  for  some  days  after  they  are  hatched ; 
when  they  do,  on  no  account  attempt  to  chase  or  catch  them,  as  the  hen 
will  lead  them  away  through  dangerous  places,  and,  in  her  hurry  to  pro- 
tect them,  trample  upon  and  kill  them. 

The  peahen  sits  from  six-and-twenty  to  thirty  days.  The  eggs  are  greyish- 
white,  and  she  seldom  sitsupon  more  than  five  eggs.  The  chicks  shouldbe  fed 
the  same  as  turkey's  chicks  ;  and  when  full-grown,  corn  of  different  kinds, 
insects,  small  reptiles,  and  fruits,  are  their  general  and  favourite  food.  As 
a  dish  for  the  table,  the  roast  peacock  must  be  seen  and  tasted  by  those 


426 


Peacock.  — Eggs. 


who  would  enjoy  a  repast  worthy  of  ancient  Rome  and  of  our  more 
modern  times. 

The  peacock  is  a  na- 
tive of  India,  Thibet, 
and  the  islands  of  the 
Indian  Seas,  This  bird 
is  said  to  have  been  in- 
troduced into  Europe 
by  Alexander  the  Great. 
The  date  of  its  introduc- 
tion into  this  country 
is  unknown.  Peacocks 
formed  a  favourite  dish 
at  the  tables  of  the  an- 
cient Romans  and  at 
the  feasts  of  the  Middle 
Ages. 

A  vow  taken  in  the 
presence  of  the  pea- 
cock was  considered 
especially  sacred,  pro- 
bably from  its  social 
and  public  nature. 

The  Peahen  forms  a 
most  excellent  dish,  but. 
it  requires  larding  to 
make  the  flesh  tender 
and  succulent.  When 
the  peacock  is  served 
he  is  adorned  with 
some  of  his  tail  fea- 
thers. For  dressing  the 
peahen,  see  "  Model 
Cookery f  for  the  Swan, 
see  Christmas  Receipts  in  the  article  on  <;  Social  Duties." 


The  Common  Peacock. 


ESGS. 

We  will  close  our  few  remarks  relative  to  the  poultry  yard  with 
a  few  words  of  advice  with  regard  to  eggs.  When  they  are  plentiful, 
about  July,  they  should  begin  to  be  saved  for  winter  consumption.  There 
are  two  or  three  ways  of  preserving  them,  all  equally  simple.  Some  dip 
them  in  boiling  water  for  a  second  and  instantly  remove  them  ;  others 
oil  each  shell.  Either  of  those  methods  will  prevent  the  air  en- 
tering the  shell  —  in  fact  it  becomes  hermetically  sealed,  as  it  were. 
Others  keep  them  on  shelves  with  holes  in  them  to  receive  each  egg  ; 
these  should  be  turned  every  day,  which  is  a  very  tedious  process. 
Others  place  them  in  a  tub  or  stone  jar  closely  packed,  and  pour  lime- 
water,  moderately  strong,  over  them  until  they  are  all  covered.  Great  care 
must  be  taken  that  the  lime-water  be  not  too  strong,  as  in  that  case  the 
shells  will  be  completely  destroyed,  and  your  eggs  will  be  one  incongruous 


To  Fatten  Poultry. — Breeding  Pheasants. 


427 


mass.  Should  you  at  any  time  desire  to  make  a  present  of  a  sitting  of 
eggs  of  a  choice  breed  of  fowl,  it  is  satisfactory  to  know  that  your  friend 
will  receive  them  in  safety  if  properly  packed.  They  may  either  be  packed 
in  a  hamper  or  a  box  ;  the  former  is  the  best.  Put  at  the  bottom  of  it  a 
good  layer  of  hay  or  grass  ;  wrap  each  egg  separately  in  the  same,  and 
place  over  all  a  good  covering  of  wool.  Pack  them  carefully,  and  press 
well  round  the  spaces  at  the  sides  some  of  the  same  description  of  pack- 
ing, so  that  there  may  be  no  shaking  of  the  eggs  ;  should  there  be,  disap- 
pointment will  most  inevitably  follow,  as.  they  will  be  addled  to  a  cer- 
tainty, 

To  Fatten  Poultry. 

Crush  and  soak  the  corn  in  water.    The  food  will  then  go  further,  and 
it  will  help  digestion, 

Breeding  Pheasants. 

The  pheasant  breeds  generally  in  April,  making  a  very  rough  nest 
on  the  ground  ;  but  in  these  days  of  battue  shooting,  it  would  not  do  to 


The  Common  Pheasant. 


428  Breeding  Pheasants. 


depend  entirely  on  the  hap-hazard  chance  of  wet  or  dry  hatching  seasons, 
so,  to  insure  a  plentiful  supply  of  game,  many  hundred  eggs  are  placed 
under  common  fowls  and  reared  and  fed  as  poultry  until  they  are  large 
enough  to  turn  out  into  the  woods,  when  they  are  dignified  with  the  name 
of  game. 

The  following  directions  for  rearing  them  under  hens  have  been,  we 
know,  adopted  with  success  : — A  sufficient  number  of  eggs  being  provided, 
put  them  under  a  hen  that  has  kept  her  nest  for  three  or  four  days  ;  and 
if  two  or  three  hens  happen  to  sit  on  the  same  day,  an  opportunity  will  be 
afforded  of  shifting  the  good  eggs.  At  the  end  of  ten  or  twelve  days, 
examine,  and  throw  away  those  that  are  bad,  and  set  the  same  hen  or 
hens  again.  The  hens  having  set  their  full  time,  such  of  the  young 
pheasants  as  are  already  hatched  must  be  put  into  a  basket,  with  a  piece 
of  flannel,  till  the  hen  has  done  hatching,  then  place  the  whole  brood  under 
a  frame,  with  a  net  over  it,  and  a  covered  place  for  the  hen,  so  as  to  confine 
her  ;  but  leave  the  young  pheasants  at  liberty  to  go  or  return  to  her  at 
pleasure.  Their  food  must  consist  of  boiled  eggs  cut  small,  boiled  milk 
and  bread,  alum  curd,  and  ants'  eggs,  a  little  of  each  and  often.  Rice  may 
also  be  given,  softened  by  boiling  ;  and,  instead  of  ants'  eggs,  which  in 
some  places  are  not  easily  procured,  or  in  addition  to  them,  maggots  from 
decayed  flesh  may  be  used.  Artificial  ants'  eggs  may  be  easily  made, 
composed  of  flour  beaten  up  with  an  egg  and  the  shell  together,  and  the 
pellets  rubbed  between  the  fingers  to  a  proper  size. 

After  two  or  three  days,  the  pheasants  will  know  the  call  of  their  foster- 
mother,  and  may  then  be  allowed  to  run  upon  a  grass-plot,  or  the  edge  of  a 
corn-field  is  very  desirable,  as  they  like  the  tall  stems,  and  soon  learn  to  pick 
up  the  green  grains.  Take  care  to  shift  them  with  the  sun,  and  guard 
them  from  cold  winds.  They  ought  not  to  be  let  out  in  the  morning  before 
the  sun  is  up,  and  they  must  be  shut  in  with  the  hen  in  good  time  in  the 
evening.  When  they  are  old  enough  those  that  are  to  be  turned  out  wild 
ought  to  be  taught  to  perch.  This  is  done  by  tying  a  string  to  a  hen's 
leg,  and  obliging  her  to  sit  in  a  tree  all  night.  She  should  be  placed  there 
before  sunset,  and  if  she  falls  down  she  must  be  perseveringly  replaced, 
till  she  becomes  contented  with  her  position.  Next  the  young  birds  will 
follow  her  example  and  perch  with  her,  and  in  a  few  days  they  will  be  able 
to  take  care  of  themselves. 

If  regularly  fed,  they  will  remain  near  any  particular  spot,  and  fre- 
quent a  lawn  or  pleasure  ground  as  familiarly  and  almost  as  fearlessly  as 
common  poultry. 

Instances  have  been  known  of  the  pheasant  breeding  with  the  common 
fowl.  Other  crosses  also  have  occurred — viz.,  with  the  pheasant  and 
turkey,  as  also  with  the  Guinea  fowl.  We  have  mention  also  of  a  cross 
between  the  pheasant  and  grey  hen,  the  female  of  the  blackcock. 

Pheasants  are  bred  in  vast  numbers  now  in  this  country,  and  at  a 
great  expense  to  those  that  preserve  them.  It  is  generally  supposed  that 
by  the  time  the  pheasants  are  fit  to  shoot,  each  bird  has  cost  in  its  rearing 
from  2s.  6d.  to  3^. 

PHEASANTS    FOR  AVIARIES. 

The  Chinese  species  of  pheasants  have  a  much  more  splendid  plumage 
than  the  British-bred  pheasant.     Their  plumage  is  truly  magnificent,  and 


Various  Pheasants.  429 


should  find  a  place  in  every  aviary.  The  Golden  pheasant  is  one  blaze 
of  splendour,  reminding  one  almost  of  the  description  of  birds  in  some  fairy 
tale.  In  contrast  to  the  gorgeous  plumage  of  the  Golden,  we  have  the  de- 
licately-tinted Silver  pheasant,  also  from  the  same  country  ;  but  they  are 
getting  common  in  this  country  now — in  fact,  no  aviary  is  considered 
complete  without  them  ;  and  it  is  generally  supposed  that  if  they  were 
turned  out,  as  the  other  common  pheasant  is,  they  would  thrive  equally 
welL 

There  is  one  description  of  pheasant  which  has  splendid  plumage, 
generally  known  as  Reeves'  pheasant.  The  feathers  in  the  tail  of  the  male 
bird  are  very  nearly  six  feet  long. 

The  Japanese  pheasants  are  also  remarkable  for  their  extraordinarily 
beautiful  plumage.  They  are  in  their  manners  and  habits  exactly  the 
same  as  our  own  common  pheasant. 

The  Himalaya  mountains  in  Hindostan  have  a  remarkably  extraor- 
dinary description  of  pheasant  called  the  Horned  pheasant.  The  plume 
of  this  bird  is  also  extremely  beautiful. 

The  Argus  pheasant  of  Sumatra  and  the  adjacent  islands  should  also 
be  found  in  our  aviaries.  The  wings  of  this  bird  are  covered  with  beau- 
tiful spots,  which  the  male  bird  is  proud  of  showing  when  strutting 
in  the  society  of  the  female  birds.  It  is  also  remarkable  for  the  extraor- 
dinary development  of  the  secondary  quill  feathers  of  the  wings,  which, 
although  an  impediment  in  flying,  are  of  very  great  assistance  when  run- 
ning, which  it  does  very  swiftly.  The  tail  of  this  bird  is  also  beautifully 
spotted  ;  and  when  disporting  with  the  female  birds,  it  is  raised  aloft  and 
spread  to  show  its  beauty.  The  generality  of  pheasants  feed  on  grain  of 
various  descriptions  ;  but  there  is  one  found  in  Nepaul,  called  the  Im- 
peyan  pheasant,  which  lives  principally  on  bulbous  roots,  and  its  bill  is  of 
the  shape  of  a  scoop,  which  enables  it  to  raise  them  with  ease.  The 
plumage  of  the  male  bird  is  perfectly  resplendent.  It  is  almost  impossible 
to  describe  the  beauty  of  the  several  tints — changing  and  changing  again 
and  again  with  the  dazzling  hues  of  green,  steel-blue,  and  golden  bronze. 
At  a  first  glance  one  would  imagine  the  bird  clothed  in  scale  armour.  It 
has  a  crested  head,  of  a  naked  shaft  of  feathers.  The  back  of  this  splendid 
bird  is  of  the  purest  white.  The  female  varies  in  its  plumage  from  the 
male  bird,  being  altogether  of  a  sombre  hue,  bearing  no  resemblance  what- 
ever to  the  transcendent  beauty  of  the  cock.  The  young  birds  are  plumed 
much  in  the  same  manner  as  the  female. 


43° 


DOMESTIC    PETS. 


This  is  a  very  comprehensive  title,  and  might  fairly  be  supposed  to 
comprise  ponies,  donkeys,  dogs,  cats,  rabbits,  poultry,  and  pigeons  ; 
but  this  article  will  be  confined  to  animals  kept  in  the  house,  and  will 
especially  relate  to  those  which  may  be  legitimately  called  Pets,  the  care 
of  them  devolving  entirely  upon  their  owners.  Out-of-door  pets  must 
necessarily  be  left  in  a  great  measure  to  the  care  of  servants,  and  cannot 
be  so  essentially  home  friends. 

Squirrels,  dormice,  and  white  mice  are  sometimes  kept  in  captivity 
by  those  whose  lives  are  chiefly  spent  in  towns,  and  who  have  no  know- 
ledge of  the  wild  frolicsome  creatures  in  their  native  haunts  ;  but  they 
appear  to  lead  very  unnatural  lives  in  confinement,  and  are  not  very 
desirable  pets  for  the  house  :  it  is  difficult  to  keep  their  cages  quite  sweet 
and  clean.  All  may  be  domesticated,  however,  and  are,  we  believe,  capable 
of  attachment  to  their  owners.  We  have  never  kept  any  ourselves  ;  but  our 
brothers  had  dormice  from  time  to  time,  and  several  small  families  were 
born  and  brought  up  under  their  care,  but  most  of  them  came  to  an 
untimely  end. 

The  squirrel  seems  so  delightfully  free  and  happy,  playing  about  on 
the  tops  of  the  tallest  trees  in  the  woods,  launching  himself  boldly  into 
the  air,  and  taking  tremendous  leaps  from  branch  to  branch,  that  after 
seeing  the  pretty  little  creature  at  his  ease,  one  does  not  feel  inclined  to 
deprive  him  of  the  liberty  he  seems  so  thoroughly  to  enjoy  ;  but  if  he  is 
captured,  his  life  ought  to  be  made  as  happy  as  possible,  and  he  should 
be  allowed  as  much  exercise  as  he  can  have  in  the  house.     His  casre 


Ordinary  Squirrel's  Cage. 

should  be  at  least  3  or  4  feet  long  and  3  or  4  feet  high,  and  instead 
of  the  revolving  cylinder,  which  is  very  injurious  to  the  little  prisoner,  he 


The  Squirrel. — The  Dormouse.  43 1 


should  have  a  good-sized  branch  of  a  tree,  to  form  perches  for  him,  and 
be  able  to  frisk  about  at  pleasure  in  his  little  parlour.  A  little  sleeping- 
box  must  be  attached  to  this,  with  a  door  at  the  back,  and  the  board 
forming  the  floor  should  be  drawn  out  like  that  of  a  bird-cage.  Every 
part  of  the  cage  must  be  kept  as  clean  as  possible,  and  the  moss  and 
cotton  wool,  which  must  be  put  into  the  squirrel's  bedroom,  must  be 
changed  nearly  every  day.  The  active  little  creature  does  not  often  live 
long  in  confinement  ;  but  if  taken  young,  and  very  carefully  managed,  it 
may  become  a  very  tame  and  a  very  engaging  pet,  and  may  sometimes 
be  trusted  to  frolic  about  out  of  doors  when  tame  enough  to  return  at  his 
owner's  call.  His  cage  should,  however,  be  lined  with  tin  ;  for  he  is 
apt  to  gnaw  the  wood  with  his  sharp  little  teeth  when  impatient  of 
confinement.  He  should  be  fed  on  nuts,  almonds,  filberts,  beech  masts, 
walnuts,  acorns,  wheat  in  the  ear,  and  fir  cones  ;  and  he  is  fond  of  milk, 
cold  tea,  and  bread-and-milk.  A  little  bit  of  boiled  potato,  and  even  a 
tiny  morsel  of  cooked  meat,  may  be  given  as  a  treat,  and  a  stale  crust  of 
bread  to  gnaw.  All  creatures  require  variety  in  their  food,  and  in  his 
wild  state  the  squirrel  gets  animal  food  by  robbing  birds'  nests  of  their 
eggs  occasionally.  He  lays  up  a  store  of  food  for  the  winter  in  various 
holes  and  crevices,  and  is  much  too  acute  ever  to  put  by  a  nut  in  which 
a  maggot  has  been,  or  to  miss  the  place  where  his  treasure  is  concealed, 
even  when  several  inches  depth  of  snow  covers  the  ground.  The  female  is 
a  very  affectionate  mother,  and  will  remain  with  her  young  in  the  nest 
even  while  the  tree  in  which  it  is,  is  cut  down,  or  will  carry  them,  one 
after  another,  in  her  mouth,  to  a  place  of  safety.  She  generally  builds 
on  the  topmost  branches  of  the  fir  tree,  and  the  nest  is  made  of  dry 
grass  and  sticks,  very  slightly  yet  firmly  put  together,  and  lined  with  fur, 
which  she  scratches  off  her  body  before  the  young  ones  are  born.  This 
is  generally  in  the  summer,  and  the  young  squirrels  remain  with  their 
parents  till  the  following  spring,  when  they  are  able  to  manage  for  them- 
selves. They  have  a  substantial  winter's  nest,  to  which  they  appear  to 
add  every  year  fresh  layers  of  hay  and  moss,  to  make  their  habitation 
more  and  more  warm  and  comfortable.  I  have  been  told  that  the  best 
time  to  buy  a  squirrel  is  at  the  end  of  September,  when  it  is  fat  and 
vigorous  and  its  fur  is  in  good  condition  ;  but  it  is  never  safe  to  purchase 
those  which  are  sold  in  the  street  as  "  wonderfully  tame,"  and  which  will 
allow  themselves  to  be  handled  by  a  stranger,  and  pulled  about,  without 
showing  any  disposition  to  bite.  The  probability  is  that  the  poor  little 
creatures  have  been  stupefied  by  some  drug,  and  that  they  will  either 
recover  their  natural  ferocity  in  a  few  hours,  or  die — poisoned  by  the 
narcotic  which  has  been  given  them. 

The  dormouse  is  very  like  the  squirrel  in  many  of  its  habits  :  it  lives 
upon  much  the  same  food,  and  is  a  hybernating  animal  too,  laying  up  a 
store  of  eatables  for  the  winter,  and  passing  the  greater  part  of  the  cold 
months  in  sleep.  In  a  cage  it  is  not  seen  to  advantage  :  throughout  the 
day  it  is  generally  rolled  up  into  a  little  soft  ball  of  fur,  fast  asleep,  and  its 
architectural  talents  are  quite  thrown  away.  It  is  in  its  wild  state  a  very- 
clever  nest-builder,  and  Mr.  Wood  gives  a  most  fascinating  description  of  a 
dormouse's  nest,  which  he  found  in  a  hedge  4  feet  from  the  ground,  in  the 
forking  of  a  hazel  branch,  the  smaller  twigs  of  which  formed  a  palisade 
round  it.     The  nest  itself  was  6  inches  long  and  3  wide,  and  constructed  of 


43  2  The  Dormouse. 


grass  blades  and  leaves  of  trees.  The  blades  of  the  sword-grass  were  chiefly 
used,  and  these  were  twisted  round  and  between  the  twigs  so  as  to  form  a 
hollow  oval  nest.  Finer  sorts  of  grass  and  the  slender  stems  (not  bigger 
than  thread)  of  delicate  climbing  weeds,  interwoven  with  the  leaves  of  hazel 
and  maple  trees,  were  used  for  the  bottom  of  the  nest  ;  the  entrance  to 
which  was  most  ingeniously  concealed  by  long  blades  of  grass  placed  across 
it  in  such  a  manner  as  to  spring  back  to  their  places,  after  havingbeen  pushed 
aside  to  admit  the  dormouse  into  the  nest.     This  was  never  used  as  a 


Dormouse. 

storehouse  ;  the  little  creature  had  its  winter  provisions  carefully  hidden 
under  a  thick  branch  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  nest.  While  hyber- 
nating,  the  dormouse  does  not  seem  to  require  food  :  but  it  wakes  up 
occasionally  during  the  winter,  perhaps  when  a  warm  sunny  day  calls  it 
into  life  for  the  time,  and  then  it  takes  food  before  it  rolls  itself  up  and 
sleeps  again.  It  requires  a  good  deal  of  warmth,  and  must  have  soft 
hay,  moss,  and  wool  given  it  to  form  its  bed,  and  it  does  its  best  with 
these,  but  cannot  construct  anything  very  beautiful  out  of  them. 

If  we  had  a  tame  dormouse,  we  think  we  should  try  to  provide  it  with 
materials  which  it  might  be  induced  to  use  for  the  construction  of  a  nest 
like  that  described  by  Mr.  Wood.  The  dormice  our  brothers  had  were 
kept  in  a  cage  made  for  dormice,  wired  at  one  end,  with  a  little  compart- 
ment at  the  other  boarded  in,  the  door  of  which  was  pulled  up  and 
pushed  down  at  pleasure,  so  that  the  little  creatures  could  be  shut 
into  their  bedroom  when  the  outer  room  was  cleaned  out.  Even  with 
this  precaution  they  were  continually  getting  out  of  the  cage,  they  were 
such  nimble  little  animals,  and  the  whole  house  was  often  searched  in 
vain  for  the  truants.  At  last,  perhaps,  they  would  be  found  in  the  .fold  of 
a  curtain  or  underneath  the  cushion  of  a  sofa.  Sometimes  a  worse  fate 
befell  them,  and  they  would  creep  under  the  cushion  of  an  arm-chair, 
and  get  crushed  to  death,  or  be  trodden  under  loot,  or  be  squeezed  under 
a  door  in  trying  to  escape.  They  sleep  during  the  day  and  come  out  in 
the  evening,  so  that  they  must  be  provided  with  food  as  soon  as  it  grows 
dusk  ;  and  if  they  have  a  large  cage  with  sticks  placed  across  it,  they  will 
gambol  about    very  merrily  in  the   open  part  of  it  as  soon  as  night 


White  Mice.  433 


approaches.  Their  food  should  be  varied  as  much  as  possible  :  they  will 
eat  nuts  and  almonds,  peas  and  beans,  canary  seed,  and  various  other 
grains  ;  and  they  are  very  fond  of  the  milky  juice  of  a  dandelion  or  sow- 
thistle.  We  used  always  to  put  a  little  tin  pan  of  milk  into  the  cage  every 
night,  and  they  would  often  drink  it  all,  especially  when  they  had  young 
ones.  It  is  said  that  rabbits  will  be  hindered  from  devouring  their  young 
by  providing  them  with  water,  and  that  they  would  not  eat  them  unless 
maddened  by  thirst  or  suffering  from  extreme  hunger.  Some  dormice 
have  the  same  propensity  to  cannibalism  ;  and  if  this  theory  about  the 
rabbits  be  correct,  it  may  apply  also  to  the  mother  dormouse  which 
devours  her  young.  We  thought  she  did  so  when  alarmed  for  their 
safety,  not  being  able  to  conceal  them  elsewhere ;  but  it  would  be  well  to 
provide  her  with  a  constant  supply  of  water  or  milk  when  nursing.  The 
milk  is  useful  too  in  furnishing  the  dormouse  with  animal  food;  out  ol 
doors  it  eats  insects.  There  are  generally  four  or  five  young  ones  in  a 
litter,  born  blind,  but  able  to  see  in  a  few  days,  and  they  are  soon  capable 
of  taking  care  of  themselves.  The  cage  must,  of  course,  be  kept  perfectly 
clean,  and  the  floor  of  the  open  part  should  be  sanded  like  a  bird-cage. 

White,  Grey-and-White,  and  Brown  and  White  mice  are  sometimes 
kept  in  cages  like  those  of  the  dormouse,  and  they  must  be  treated  in 
the  same  manner.  The  common  Brown  mouse  is  said  to  be  a  more 
tractable  and  intelligent  pet,  and  to  be  easily  tamed  by  patient  kindness. 
I  never  heard  a  mouse  sing,  but  several  instances  are  recorded  of  mice 
who  have  learned  to  imitate  the  chirp  and  even  the  song  of  a  canary 
kept  in  the  room  in  which  they  were  ;  so  that  it  might  be  worth  while  to 


White  Mice. 

try  to  give  such  pets  the  benefit  of  a  musical  education  for  the  chance  of 
their  acquiring  so  curious  an  accomplishment.  The  little  Harvest  mouse, 
the  tiniest  of  British  quadrupeds,  has  sometimes  been  kept  in  a  cage,  and 
will  grow  tame  enough  to  take  its  favourite  food,  flies  and  other  insects, 
from  the  hand.  It  is  a  most  beautiful  little  creature,  very  active  and  agile, 
climbing  about  by  means  of  its  long  tail  and  flexible  toes,  and  leaping  like 
a  little  Jerboa.      It  should  have  grains  of  wheat  and  maize,  and  canary 

F  F 


434  The  Canary.— The  Robin. 

seed,  and  plenty  of  water  always  in  the  cage  ;  and  wool  or  flannel  and 
grass  for  its  nest,  which  in  its  wild  state  is  the  most  beautiful  and  elabo- 
rate construction  of  leaves  and  grass  woven  together  into  a  round  ball 
and  suspended  from  strong  grass-stems,  wheat-stalks,  or  thistle-heads. 
In  the  winter  it  takes  refuge  in  corn  ricks,  or  burrows  deeply  in  the  earth, 
and  makes  a  warm  bed  of  grass.  Even  in  confinement  the  harvest 
mouse  will  show  its  instinctive  propensity  to  store  up  food  for  the  winter, 
and  if  a  number  of  grains  of  wheat  or  seed  are  given  to  it,  will  carry  them 
off  and  hide  them  in  its  nest. 

None  of  these  little  creatures,  however  pretty  and  intelligent  they  may 
be,  seem  to  me  to  be  such  desirable  pets  to  be  kept  in  the  house  as  Birds, 
to  which  the  remainder  of  this  article  will  be  devoted.  We  can  make  them 
so  happy,  and  they  can  tell  us  when  anything  is  amiss  with  them  so  plainly 
—so  thoroughly  enjoying  our  petting,  and  becoming  so  attached  to  us — 
that  no  trouble  is  thrown  away  upon  our  feathered  pets. 

On  the  whole,  I  think  canaries  flourish  best  in  imprisonment.  All  the 
English  finches  do  well  in  aviaries  or  cages  ;  but  one  does  not  like  to  see 
them  imprisoned  while  their  brothers  and  sisters  are  flying  about  at  large 
close  by — one  thinks  they  must  envy  them  their  liberty,  and  long  to  join 
them  ;  while  canaries  would  suffer  extremely  exposed  to  the  cold  of 
winter,  if,  indeed,  they  survived  it.  As  regards  other  birds  —  robins, 
wrens,  titmice,  sparrows,  &c.  —  it  is  much  pleasanter  to  have  them  visit- 
ing us  from  the  garden  than  to  keep  them  shut  up  all  the  year  round  ;  and 
larks  and  nightingales  are  so  completely  out  of  their  natural  element  in 
cages  that  one  cannot  feel  happy  in  keeping  them.  Any  one  who  will 
take  the  trouble  to  feed  the  birds  that  congregate  round  the  house  in 
winter  may  soon  have  a  family  of  pensioners. 

The  robins  will  become  our  very  familiar  friends  —  hopping  about  at 
their  ease  on  the  breakfast-table,  examining  every  article  in  the  room  with 
the  utmost  self-possession  ;  will  visit  us  regularly  through  the  cold  months, 
and,  if  they  leave  us  in  spring,  will  bring  their  young  ones  to  make  our 
acquaintance  when  they  leave  their  nests.  Crumbs  of  bread,  potatoes, 
and  scraps  of  fat  will  make  a  feast  for  the  poor  little  hungry  birds,  driven 
by  frost  and  snow  to  our  doors  ;  and  the  saucy  tomtits  and  sparrows 
will  afford  us  much  amusement  in  return  for  our  hospitality. 

We  may  get  much  insight  into  the  special  characteristics  of  the  birds 
by  watching  them  when  they  are  at  their  ease,  and  a  hard  winter  will  some- 
times make  them  so  tame,  and  so  accustom  them  to  our  care,  that  they 
will  hover  about  us  out  of  doors,  and  peck  at  the  windows  for  admittance 
at  their  usual  feeding  hours. 

Although  I  do  not  advocate  keeping  English  birds  in  confinement  as 
a  rule,  it  will  sometimes  happen  that  nestlings  will  be  thrown  upon  our 
compassion,  which  have  either  fallen  out  of  their  nest,  lost  their  parents, 
or  have  been  taken  captive  by  village  boys,  and  are  likely  to  come  to  a 
miserable  end  if  not  taken  care  of.  Under  these  circumstances  it  is  as 
well  to  know  how  to  bring  them  up  by  hand.  I  once  had  several  nests  to 
take  care  of,  and  all  the  young  birds  were  reared  and  sent  out  into  the 
world  when  able  to  take  care  of  themselves  ;  all  but  two  bullfinches, 
which  were  given  to  a  neighbour,  who  fed  them  upon  hemp-seed — the  con- 
sequence of  which  was  that  nearly  all  their  feathers  fell  off,  and  they  were 
the  most  miserable  little  objects  that  can  be  conceived,  and  their  little  red- 


The  Linnet. — The  Greenfinch. — The  Bullfinch.  435 


hot  bodies  were  quite  uncomfortable  to  touch.  A  course  of  warm  baths 
and  plenty  of  cooling  green  food,  however,  restored  them  to  health  and 
beauty,  and  they  were  returned  to  their  owner  with  a  warning  against 
hemp-seed.  It  is  said  that  a  bullfinch  fed  entirely  upon  this  heating  seed 
will  become  blind. 

Nestlings  should  be  fed  upon  bread  soaked  in  water,  squeezed  nearly  dry, 
and  chopped  up  finely  with  rape-seed  which  has  been  scalded  by  pouring 
boiling  water  upon  it,  and  leaving  it  till  quite  cold.  Of  course  this  food 
must  be  made  fresh  every  day  ;  if  it  grew  sour  it  would  kill  the  birds  at 
once.  About  four  quills  full  of  it  is  enough  for  a  meal  for  one  young  bird  ; 
but  they  generally  clamour  for  food  till  they  have  enough,  and  then  settle 
down  to  sleep  again.  They  must  be  fed  as  soon  as  possible  in  the  morn- 
ing after  sunrise,  and  will  require  food  at  intervals  of  from  one  hour  and 
three-quarters  to  two  hours  throughout  the  day,  the  last  meal  being  given 
about  sunset,  when  they  must  be  covered  up  for  the  night.  The  best  plan 
is  to  keep  the  nest  in  a  shallow  box,  over  which  a  board  can  be  laid  to 
darken  it,  otherwise  the  birds  will  be  asking  for  food  every  quarter  of  an 
hour.  As  soon  as  they  hear  a  step  in  the  room  they  begin  to  chirp  ;  and 
when  the  box  is  uncovered  they  will  stretch  out  their  necks,  and  as  they 
grow  older  jump  out  of  the  nest,  and  fly  upon  the  hand  or  shoulder  in  their 
impatience  for  food.  In  time  they  will  learn  to  feed  themselves  with  the 
soft  food,  and  by  degrees  to  pick  up  and  shell  the  seed  put  into  their  cage  ; 
for  of  course  they  must  be  put  into  a  cage  as  soon  as  they  are  fledged  suffi- 
ciently to  enable  them  to  fly.  It  is  best  to  crush  the  hemp-seed  for  them 
at  first,  but  they  soon  learn  to  shell  the  canary  and  rape-seed. 

The  linnets  and  greenfinches  I  brought  up  by  hand  were  very  tame, 
and  although  I  left  seed  and  water  always  within  their  reach,  I  accustomed 
them  to  be  fed  by  me,  and  kept  any  food  of  which  they  were  particularly 
fond — hemp-seed,  plantain,  or  chickweed,  for  instance,  which  all  birds 
love — to  be  given  them  as  dainties  ;  so  they  always  expected  something 
nice  from  me,  and  would  fly  out  of  their  cages  and  all  round  the  room  in 
their  joy  as  soon  as  I  opened  the  doors,  returning  to  perch  on  my  hand, 
shoulder,  or  head  when  they  wanted  their  food.  The  greenfinches  were 
very  bold  birds,  and  as  familiar  as  possible  with  me.  They  were  great 
eaters,  and  very  eager  for  their  favourite  food,  so  they  alway  welcomed  me 
very  heartily  ;  but  I  did  not  prize  their  affection  so  much  as  I  did  that  of 
the  linnets,  which  were  naturally  more  shy  and  retiring,  and  required 
more  courting  and  petting.  They  are  very  nice  pets,  and  become  very 
much  attached  to  their  owner,  and  their  song  is  very  sweet ;  but  if  kept 
in  confinement  they  never  acquire  the  red  poll  and  breast  which  ought  to 
distinguish  the  male  bird  in  full  plumage.  They  are  fond  of  flax  or  lin- 
seed, but  they  must  not  have  much  of  it,  or  they  will  grow  very  fat.  Canary 
and  rape-seed  should  be  the  principal  food  both  of  linnets  and  green- 
finches. As  soon  as  my  four  green  nestlings  were  full  grown  I  let  them 
fly  out  of  the  window,  but  for  a  long  time  they  used  to  come  back  to  the 
cage  for  food,and  sometimes  would  roost  there  during  the  night;  however, 
at  last  they  found  companions  of  their  own  kind  in  the  woods  and  fields, 
who  gradually  weaned  them  from  us. 

The  bullfinch  is  a  very  nice  pet ;  he  becomes  so  attached  to  his 
owner,  and  will  not  bestow  his  affection  indiscriminately,  so  that  he 
repays  one  for  any  attention  given  him.     He  is  subject  to  fits  of  jealousy, 

F  F   2 


436  The  Bullfinch. 


however ;  and  I  have  known  birds  who  would  take  a  violent  dislike  to 
any  friends  of  their  mistress  upon  whom  they  thought  some  of  the 
affection  due  to  themselves  was  bestowed.  Some  have  died  of  grief 
when  separated  from  those  who  petted  and  fed  them,  and  who  had  won 
their  faithful  little  hearts  completely.  They  are  happy  in  confinement,  if 
not  made  ill  by  improper  food,  as  they  are  not  very  active  birds.  They 
should  have  no  sweets  or  injurious  delicacies,  but  be  fed  upon  rape  and 
canary-seed,  with  an  occasional  treat  of  hemp-seed,  water-cress,  lettuce, 
and  chickweed  and  groundsel.  If  they  mope  and  ruffle  their  plumage, 
they  should  be  fed  only  upon  scalded  rape-seed  for  a  few  days.  When 
moulting,  they  require  a  little  hard  egg  and  breadcrumbs,  and  a  rusty 
nail  or  a  clove  in  their  drinking-water.  They  like  a  little  bit  of  apple 
and  a  few  berries  occasionally.  In  gardens  they  are  supposed  to  do  a 
great  deal  of  mischief  by  eating  the  young  buds  and  fruit ;  but  it  is 
doubtful  whether  the  good  they  do  by  eating  the  insects  upon  them  is 
not  more  than  the  destruction  they  are  accused  of.  Their  natural  song  is 
not  musical,  but  they  may  be  taught  to  whistle  or   "pipe"   airs  very 


Bullfinch. 

accurately.  The  Germans  take  great  pains  in  the  teaching  of  their 
young  bullfinches.  They  divide  them  into  classes  of  five  or  six  pupils, 
and  they  are  kept  much  in  the  dark,  and  the  tunes  they  are  to  learn  are 
repeated  over  and  over  again  to  them  while  they  are  fed.  By  degrees 
light  is  admitted,  and  after  a  time  the  birds  are  taken  out  of  the  class, 
one  by  one,  and  given  into  the  charge  of  a  boy,  whose  duty  it  is  to 
repeat  the  tunes  on  a  bird-organ  from  morning  to  night,  till  the  bird 
acquires  them  perfectly,  when  a  large  price  will  be  paid  for  him.  Some 
bird  teachers  keep  their  pupils  fasting  while  they  learn  their  lessons,  and 
only  feed  them  as  a  reward ;  but  I  believe  the  best  and  most  humane 
plan  is  to  repeat  the  airs  to  them  while  they  are  digesting  their  food  ;  and 
if  they  are  taught  by  good  whistling  instead  of  by  a  bird-organ,  they 
generally  pipe  in  a  pleasanter  and  more  flute-like  manner.  Bullfinches 
that  CA.n  pipe  three  or  four  distinct  airs  correctly  are  highly  prized,  and  4/. 
or  5/.,  or  even  more,  will  be  paid  for  them.  It  is,  however,  as  well  to 
suggest  that  there  may  be  disappointment  in  store  for  their  purchasers, 
for  the  birds  are  often  apt  to  forget  their  accomplishments  while  they  are 


The  Bullfinch. — The  Goldfinch.  437 

moulting,  and  they  ought  to  have  the  airs  frequently  repeated  to  them 
during  this  time  of  silence,  and  when  they  are  beginning  to  use  their 
voices  again. 

The  bullfinch  can  be  taught  to  perform  many  amusing  tricks,  such  as 
drawing  up  water  in  a  bucket  from  a  little  well  underneath  his  cage,  and 
the  more  difficult  feat  of  pumping  it  up  to  fill  his  bath  ;  but  although  in- 
telligent and  docile  enough  to  learn  these,  such  accomplishments  do  not 
appear  to  suit  him  so  well  as  the  active,  restless  little  goldfinch,  who  is 
scarcely  still  a  minute  in  the  day,  and  seems  to  want  something  to  do  to 
fill  up  his  time  in  confinement. 

The  goldfinch  is  an  universal  favourite,  both  from  its  beauty  and 
sprightliness  :  it  is  very  restless  in  a  cage,  and  therefore  I  do  not  think  it 
appears  as  contented  as  some  less  active  birds  ;  but  it  will  live  many 
years  in  confinement,  and  in  an  aviary  is  as  happy  as  possible.  It  ought 
not  to  have  a  bell-shaped  cage,  as  it  is  apt  to  grow  giddy,  twirling  its  beak 
along  the  wires.  It  is  very  easily  tamed,  and  is  capable  of  great  attach- 
ment to  its  owner,  and  may  generally  be  safely  allowed  a-  flight  round  the 
room  while  its  cage  is  being  cleaned.  I  had  one  which  would  fly  across 
the  room  to  me  as  soon  as  its  cage  door  was  opened,  and  perch  on  my 
shoulder  for  its  favourite  food  of  hemp-seed.  It  is  rather  fond  of  eating, 
I  think,  and  takes  so  much  exercise  that  I  suppose  it  requires  plenty  of 
food.  It  will  not  sing  without  a  few  hemp-seeds  in  the  day,  but  it  must 
not  be  fed  solely  upon  this  heating  seed.  Canary,  rape,  and  poppy-seed 
should  be  the  ordinary  food  of  goldfinches.  Lettuce,  groundsel,  chick- 
weed,  and  water-cress  they  should  have  frequently,  and  plantain  in  the 
winter  ;  in  the  wild  state  they  feed  much  on  thistle-seed,  and  they  should 
often  have  a  thistle-head  given  to  them,  to  pick  the  seeds  out  of  it  for 
themselves.  They  ought  not  to  have  sugar  or  sweet  cakes,  but  they  exceed- 
ingly enjoy  a  treat  of  biscuit,  and  Reading  cracknels  are  very  wholesome 
for  them,  and  thoroughly  appreciated  by  goldfinches,  bullfinches,  and 
canaries. 

The  goldfinch  is  a  very  tractable  bird,  and  there  are  many  accomplish- 
ments which  he  will  learn,  and  seems  to  exhibit  with  pleasure.     He  may 


Goldfinch. 

be  taught  to  fire  off  a  small  cannon,  to  feign  death,  and  stand  unmoved 
while  fireworks  are  let  off  close  to  him,  to  mount  a  ladder,  &c. ;  but  I 


433 


The  Goldfinch. 


fear  when  these  tricks  are  made  use  of  by  his  master  to  exhibit  in  public 
for  pay,  he  is  often  treated  with  cruelty  to  make  him  a  proficient  in  them. 
Many  very  harmless  accomplishments  he  will  learn,  however,  merely  by 
patience  and  kindness  on  the  part  of  his  teacher — to  open  a  box  for  his 
seed,  to  ring  a  bell  when  he  wants  food,  to  drag  a  little  waggon  up  an 


inclined  plane  into  his  cage,  and  to  draw  up  water  from  a  little  well  under- 
neath it.  All  these  are  easily  taught,  and  the  bird  really  seems  to  find 
pleasure  in  such  little  tasks.  One  of  my  birds  who  lived  in  a  cage  so 
constructed  as  to  have  the  seed  always  in  a  box  of  which  he  had  to  lift 
up  the  lid,  and  the  water  in  a  well  to  be  drawn  up  in  a  bucket,  was  quite 
unhappy  when  his  home  was  undergoing  repair,  and  he  had  to  live  for  a 
time  in  an  ordinary  cage,  and  sang  his  merriest  song  when  he  had  to  go 
to  work  with  his  little  chain  and  pail  again.  I  taught  him  to  lift  the  lid 
of  the  box  by  having  it  open  for  one  day,  and  then  gradually  lowering  it 
by  means  of  a  piece  of  silk  put  round  it,  fastened  at  the  back  of  the  cage, 
till  it  was  quite  shut.  He  very  soon  found  out  that  he  must  lift  it  up  with 
his  beak  in  order  to  reach  the  seed  ;  and  at  last  he  became  so  crafty  about 
it,  that  he  would  take  out  two  or  three  seeds  at  once,  and  put  a  reserve 
by  his  side  between  the  wires  while  he  ate  one.  The  cage  was  made  with 
a  wooden  back,  and  the  box  was  let  into  this  above  the  door,  and  the  lid 
fastened  to  the  inside  with  two  little  hinges  (care  should  be  taken  that  the 
lid  is  not  too  heavy  for  the  bird  to  lift  easily,  and  that  it  should  fall  at 
once  when  not  held  up) ;  a  little  bow  window  was  constructed  in  the 
front  of  the  cage,  in  the  floor  of  which  was  a  little  hole  with  a  wire  across 
it,  to  which  was  attached  a  light  silver  chain  fastened  to  a  silver  bucket 
about  the  size  of  a  thimble.  A  small  coloured  glass  tumbler  was  fixed 
below  the  bow  window,  by  means  of  four  strong  wires  and  a  ring.  This 
was  filled  with  water  and  the  bucket  dropped  into  the  well,  and  the  bird 
hauled  up  the  chain  with  his  beak,  holding  each  fresh  haul  with  his  feet 
till  the  bucket  came  to  the  hole,  and  he  could  drink  out  of  it.  I  taught 
him  this  accomplishment  by  filling  the  bucket  with  water,  and  putting  it 
on  the  floor  of  the  bow  window  to  accustom  him  to  look  for  water  there 


The  Siskin.  439 


then  I  let  it  down  by  means  of  the  chain  pushed  through  two  of  the  side 
wires  by  degrees,  lowering  it  a  little  more  every  day.  At  first  the  bird 
pulled  up  the  short  bit  of  chain  with  his  beak,  and  let  it  go  before  he 
could  drink  out  of  the  bucket,  but  he  gradually  found  out  that  he  must  hold 
the  chain  when  he  had  drawn  it  up,  and  when  he  had  once  succeeded  in 
doing  this  his  education  was  finished  ;  he  never  forgot  the  art,  and  often 
showed  his  delight  in  his  task  by  singing  when  he  had  drawn  up  the  bucket 
while  his  chain  was  under  his  feet,  before  he  quenched  his  thirst.  Of  course 
it  is  necessary  to  see  that  the  machinery  of  the  bucket,  chain,  and  well  is 
always  in  order  ;  any  hitch  preventing  the  bucket  from  falling  into  the 
well  and  getting  re-filled  with  water  would  cause  the  poor  little  bird  to 
die  of  thirst.  The  bullfinch  and  siskin  will  readily  learn  this  accom- 
plishment, and  I  had  a  mule  bird  (whose  parents  were  a  goldfinch  and 
canary)  who  learned  it  very  quickly  ;  but  I  never  succeeded  in  teaching  a 
canary  to  put  his  foot  on  the  chain,  though  he  would  pull  it  up  with  his 
beak  readily  enough — of  course,  always  to  be  disappointed  by  the  falling 
down  of  the  bucket.  A  goldfinch  will  learn  to  pull  a  little  waggon  up  an 
inclined  plane  in  the  same  way,  and  to  take  his  seed  out  of  it,  the  chain 
attached  to  the  waggon  having  to  be  hauled  in  and  held  in  the  same 
manner.  The  wray  to  teach  him  to  ring  for  his  food,  is  to  suspend  a 
little  bell  in  a  corner  of  his  cage,  and  when  he  has  been  an  hour  or  two 
without  food,  to  ring  it  by  means  of  a  string  attached  to  it,  and  imme- 
diately to  place  some  of  his  favourite  seed  in  the  glass.  In  a  few  days 
he  will  discover  that  whenever  the  bell  rings  he  gets  a  meal,  and  will 
seize  the  string,  and  peal  away  merrily  whenever  he  is  hungry. 

The  goldfinch  is  rather  subject  to  epileptic  fits,  and  whenever  he  is 
seized  with  one,  he  should  be  plunged  head  downwards  into  cold  water, 
and  one  or  two  dips  will  restore  him  at  once.  He  is  a  large  eater,  and  in 
all  probability  has  indulged  his  appetite  too  much,  so  that  he  must  be 
kept  upon  a  low  diet  of  lettuce  seed  and  thistles,  and  have  no  hemp-seed 
for  a  few  days  after  he  has  had  one  of  these  fits. 

He  is  fond  of  bathing,  and  should  have  a  bath  every  day.  The  gold- 
finch will  sometimes  mate  with  the  canary,  and  the  mules  are  very  pretty. 
He  must,  however,  be  taken  away  from  his  wife  as  soon  as  she  begins  to 
lay,  as  he  has  a  mischievous  propensity  for  breaking  the  eggs.  After  the 
young  birds  are  hatched  he  may  be  put  back  into  the  cage,  and  will  help 
in  feeding  them.  I  have  never  had  a  siskin,  but  it  is  a  very  favourite 
bird  among  bird-fanciers,  especially  in  Germany,  where  it  is  ranked  as 
one  of  the  best  of  cage  birds.  It  is  smaller  than  the  canary,  and  its  song 
is  not  so  loud — a  low  sweet  warble,  which  suits  some  people  better  than 
a  more  beautiful  song.  It  is  a  very  sociable  bird  and  very  easily  tamed, 
and  is  very  amusing  to  watch  in  a  cage,  on  account  of  its  whimsical  pos- 
tures and  climbing  propensities.  It  seems  to  delight  in  doing  things 
which  it  would  be  next  to  impossible  for  ordinary  birds  to  accomplish  :  it 
will  drink  in  a  perpendicular  position,  hanging  by  its  legs,  with  its  head 
downwards,  and  sleep  clinging  to  the  wires  instead  of  roosting  on  a  perch, 
and  will  run  along  the  top  of  its  cage  like  a  fly  upon  the  ceiling  of  a  room. 
It  seems  to  use  its  feet  very  much  like  parrots,  and  to  throw  somersaults 
like  a  mountebank  for  amusement.  Doubtless  it  would  soon  learn  all  the 
feats  which  have  been  spoken  of  as  accomplished  by  the  goldfinch,  to 
perfection.      The    siskin  is  said  to  be  very  fond  of  eating,  and  to  eat 


440 


The  Chaffinch. 


much  more  than  most  birds  of  its  own  size.  It  should  be  fed  on  canary, 
rape,  and  poppy-seed,  with  occasional  treats  of  hemp-seed  and  aimonds, 
of  which  it  is  very  fond,  and  must  have  plenty  of  water  both  for  drinking 


aJ»J2 


Siskin. 

and  bathing.     Very  handsome  mules  are  obtained  by  mating  the  siskin 
with  the  canary. 

The  chaffinch  is  not  valued  so  much  in  England  as  in  Germany,  where 
bird-fanciers  prize  it  exceedingly  for  its  song.  Indeed,  the  enthusiasm 
about  it  is  so  great  that  in  some  of  the  villages  the  inhabitants  appear  to 
have  quite  a  passion  for  the  chaffinch's  song.  At  Buhl,  in  Thuringia,  the 
cotters  will  go  ninety  miles  to  catch  one  who  is  supposed  to  sing  well,  and 


Chaffinch. 


a  common  workman  will  give  as  much  as  i6j-.  for  one,  and  live  on  bread 
and  water  to  get  the  money  ;  indeed,  there  is  a  proverb  amongst  them,  "A 
chaffinch  is  worth  a  cow."  Bechstein  gives  no  less  than  eight  varieties  of 
songs  most  admired  in  his  country,  and  says  that  no  amateur  can  hear  the 


The  Canary. 


441 


double  trill  of  the  Hartz  without  being  in  an  ecstasy.  The  chaffinch's  song 
seems  to  vary  in  different  countries  and  in  different  provinces.  The  biro? 
catchers  who  frequent  Epping  Forest,  say  that  the  birds  there  sing  a  dif- 
ferent song  from  those  on  the  other  side  of  the  river ;  and  they  have 
singing  matches  amongst  their  birds,  the  prize  being  given  to  the  owner 
of  the  bird  who  delivers  the  greatest  number  of  perfect  notes  within  a 
certain  time.  A  perfect  note  in  their  estimation  is  represented  by  toll-loll- 
loll-chick-zvee-do,  and  if  the  bird  slurs  over  his  notes,  and  stops  at  chick 
or  wee,  the  note  is  not  to  be  counted. 

The  chaffinch  is  easily  tamed,  and  lives  happily  with  other  English 
finches  and  canaries  ;  feeding  on  the  same  food  recommended  for  the 
goldfinch.  Too  much  hemp  would  produce  blindness  or  some  other  dis- 
ease. A  bell-shaped  cage  is  objectionable  for  the  chaffinch,  who  has  the 
same  disposition  as  the  goldfinch  to  giddiness.  In  its  wild  state  it  builds 
the  most  beautiful  nest  of  lichen,  lined  with  feathers  ;  in  confinement,  I 
am  afraid,  its  architectural  talents  would  fall  into  abeyance. 

If  my  readers  desire  to  have  a  nursery  of  young  birds,  they  will  find 
canaries  the  best  in  every  respect  to  rear.  There  is  no  doubt  about  their 
happiness  in  a  cage,  if  proper  attention  be  paid  to  them  ;  and  I  would 
fain  believe  that  no  one  who  reads  these  pages  would  willingly  cause  them 
suffering  from  want  of  care,  or  would  attempt  to  keep  pets  upon  whom 

they  are  not  ready  to  bestow  all  the 
time  and  trouble  necessary  to  keep 
them  in  health  and  comfort.  People 
are  not  worthy  of  their  birds  if 
they  neglect  them,  and  leave  them 
to  the  care  of  servants,  to  whom 
they  are  either  troublesome  or  indif- 
ferent. And  their  attention  will  be 
received  with  such  expressive  grati- 
tude and  delight— their  feathered  pets 
will  welcome  them  so  gladly,  and 
show  so  plainly  how  much  their  hap- 
piness depends  upon  their  care — that 
they  will  be  sufficiently  rewarded  for 
its  bestowal.  They  should  become  in- 
timately acquainted  with  their  birds' 
dispositions,  too,  and  learn  their  lan- 
guage thoroughly,  and  they  will  find 
a  fund  of  amusement  in  their  society. 
This  is  more  easily  accomplished 
when  one  or  two  pet  birds  are  kept  in 
a  cage  alone,  than  when  there  are 
a  number  of  canaries  together  in  a 
very  large  cage  or  aviary,  but  I  always 
ike  best  to  see  them  under  such  circumstances — they  seem  so  thoroughly 
happy  when  they  have  room  for  flying  and  frolicking  about ;  some  birds, 
too,  will  sing  best  when  they  are  excited  by  emulation  with  others,  but 
occasionally  a  good  songster  is  sulky  when  in  company,  and  prefers  being 
alone.  One  of  my  birds  who  had  been  accustomed  to  a  small  single 
cage,  never  seemed  at  ease  when  in  a  large  one,  and  resented  being  jostled 


Canary. 


44-2  The  Canary. 

by  others.  He  was  an  old  bird,  too,  and  did  not  like  his  saucy  young 
companions,  and  showed  his  displeasure  by  total  silence  whenever  he  was 
placed  with  them  ;  so  I  had  to  restore  him  to  solitary  grandeur. 

All  through  the  autumn  and  winter  months,  about  twenty  or  thirty 
birds  will  live  very  happily  together,  in  a  cage  from  3  to  4  feet  long,  and  2 
feet  high  and  wide.  This  should  be  made  of  tin  wire,  as  brass  is  apt  to 
corrode,  and  communicate  its  poisoned  green  rust  to  the  birds,  when  they 
rub  their  beaks  against  it  ;  the  iron  rust  is  very  good  for  them.  The 
wood  may  be  either  mahogany  or  varnished  deal.  The  arrangements  for 
seed  and  water  should  be  carefully  attended  to.  If  the  former  is  put 
into  the  cage,  the  bird-hoppers  are  best  to  use,  because  the  seed  is  kept 
clean,  and  only  falls  down  as  the  birds  peck  and  scatter  away  the  husks 
beneath.  A  good  plan  is  to  have  the  seed  and  water  in  long  covered 
boxes  outside  the  cage,  with  china  or  glass  trays  to  take  in  and  out  of 
them.  These  can  be  kept  perfectly  sweet  and  clean,  and  the  birds 
cannot  make  the  seed  or  water  dirty.  Objections  are  made  to  the  old- 
fashioned  bird-glasses,  because  they  are  sometimes  carelessly  put  into  the 
wires  which  hold  them,  so  that  they  slip  aside,  and  the  poor  little  birds 
cannot  get  at  the  water  ;  but  no  provision  for  their  comfort  can  succeed 
if  carelessness  be  allowed  at  all.  I  do  not  advocate  their  use,  however, 
for  if  they  are  very  full,  the  seed  or  water  often  gets  spilt  into  the  cage,  and 
if  not,  the  birds  have  to  stretch  their  little  necks  painfully  to  reach  their 
food.  Sometimes,  too,  a  young  bird  will  contrive  in  some  mysterious 
fashion  to  get  into  the  glass,  and  having  got  in,  cannot  extricate  itself. 
One  of  mine  was  nearly  suffocated  by  getting  into  a  seed-glass,  and  it 
was  a  long  time  before  I  could  pull  it  out  again.  I  had  to  pour  all  the 
seed  out  first,  and  at  last  I  contrived  to  rescue  it ;  but  another  bird,  of 
which  I  heard  at  the  time,  got  into  the  water-glass,  and  was  drowned 
before  its  danger  was  discovered.  Nothing  looks  prettier  at  first  than  a 
fountain  in  the  middle  of  the  cage  ;  but  it  becomes  so  dirty  in  a  few  hours 
that  it  is  not  well  to  use  it.  A  bath,  wired  round  like  the  cage,  should  be 
made  to  hang  on  the  doorway,  and  the  birds  will  go  in  and  out  and  splash 
about  in  this,  with  the  greatest  delight.  It  must  be  taken  away  when  they 
have  all  had  a  good  washing,  in  cold  weather  especially,  as  some  of  them 
will  go  into  the  bath  again  and  again,  and  get  completely  chilled.  In 
winter  the  water  must  have  the  chill  taken  off,  and  whenever  the  sun 
shines  they  may  have  a  bath  safely.  They  must  always  have  sand  spread 
on  the  board  at  the  bottom  of  the  cage  ;  and  the  coarse  gravelly  sand  is 
best  for  them.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  have  a  second  board  and  two  sets  of 
perches  for  a  large  cage  ;  this  gives  opportunity  for  washing  and  drying 
them  thoroughly,  and  when  the  board  gets  wetted  by  the  splashing  of  the 
birds,  it  can  be  dried  before  it  is  returned  to  the  cage.  Of  course  the 
perches  must  be  made  to  take  in  and  out  of  the  cage  ;  they  should  be 
round  and  smooth  like  a  bamboo.  A  swing  suspended  from  the  centre  is 
a  source  of  pleasure  to  the  birds,  and  if  the  cage  has  a  domed  top,  looks 
very  pretty  underneath  it.  They  much  enjoy  hiving  a  pot  of  mignonette 
or  of  chickweed  put  in  ;  and  all  perch  eagerly  about  it,  and  soon  devour 
every  leaf  and  flower.  No  plant  that  would  be  injurious  to  them  must  be 
put  either  in  or  close  to  the  cage,  for  they  are  sure  to  eat  the  leaves,  and 
the  beauty  of  the  plant  is  destroyed  in  a  few  hours.  My  cage  stands  on 
a  flower-stand  and  has  flowers  all  round  it,  but  the  plants  are  kept  out  of 


The  Canary.  443 


the  bird's  reach.  A  fir  branch  put  into  the  cage  occasionally  gives  them  a 
good  deal  of  amusement,  and  seems  to  do  them  no  harm  ;  but  it  is  very- 
soon  reduced  to  a  bare  pole.  Plantain  is  very  good  winter  food  for  them, 
and  they  enjoy  picking  it  from  the  stalk.  Their  food  should  have  plenty 
of  variety,  to  keep  them  in  health  and  good  humour.  They  must  not 
have  sugar  or  sweet  cakes,  but  plain  biscuits — cracknels,  for  instance,  are 
good  for  them.  Their  staple  food  should  be  canary  and  bird  turnip  (the 
small  brown  summer  rape)  seed,  a  small  quantity  of  hemp-seed  each  day, 
and  occasionally,  in  cold  weather,  a  pinch  of  maw,  or  poppy-seed,  always 
to  be  given  while  the  birds  are  moulting.  When  they  are  building  they 
must  have  a  mixture  of  hard-boiled  egg  and  finely-crumbled  stale  bread, 
with  a  pinch  of  the  same  seed  mixed  with  it  every  morning.  It  must 
always  be  made  and  given  freshly,  or  it  will  turn  sour  and  kill  the  birds. 
This  food  may  be  dispensed  with  while  the  hen  is  sitting  ;  but  as  soon  as 
she  is  about  to  hatch,  it  must  be  put  in  the  cage  for  the  young  to  be  fed 
upon. 

Canaries  ought  to  have  green  food  three  or  four  times  a  week, 
chickweed,  groundsel,  or  lettuce.  It  is  better  for  them  to  have  a  little 
constantly  than  a  great  quantity  now  and  then,  when  they  are  apt  to  eat 
over-eagerly  of  it.  They  should  have  some  whole  oatmeal  or  grits  every 
day  ;  sometimes  a  little  piece  of  bread  soaked  in  milk,  not  boiled,  unless 
it  is  given  as  medicine  ;  a  little  lump  of  basalt  to  peck  at,  or  a  bit  of 
apple,  or  pear,  or  potato,  or  rice  pudding.  All  these  tit-bits  are,  of  course, 
to  be  considered  as  delicacies,  to  be  given  by  the  birds'  owner,  and  they 
will  help  very  much  to  win  their  affection.  They  require  warmth  and 
nourishing  food  during  moulting  :  if  they  seem  weak,  a  rusty  nail  in  the 
water  gives  them  a  little  tonic,  and  a  small  piece  of  Spanish  liquorice  is 
good  for  hoarseness.  By  way  of  physic,  I  think  I  have  rarely  found 
any  of  the  many  nostrums  recommended  as  specifics  of  much  use, 
excepting  boiled  milk.  If  they  have  been  eating  too  freely  of  green  food, 
a  lump  of  chalk  may  be  useful.  Some  bird-fanciers  give  ants'  eggs  and  a 
spider  occasionally,  and  it  is  likely  that  this  animal  food  would  be  good 
for  them  now  and  then.  Most  birds  are,  to  a  certain  extent,  insectivorous 
in  their  wild  state.  Variety  in  their  food  is  necessary  for  all  birds  ;  and 
if  they  have  this,  and  the  seed  is  good  and  sound,  and  they  are  not 
exposed  to  draughts  or  sudden  changes  of  temperature,  they  will  rarely 
have  anything  amiss  with  them  which  a  warm  bath  will  not  cure.  When- 
ever my  birds  look  moping,  or  when  the  hen  is  "  egg-bound,"  and  cannot 
lay  her  eggs,  I  give  them  a  bath  at  960,  holding  the  bird  in  my  hand  while 
immersing  all  but  the  head  in  the  water  for  three  or  four  minutes,  then 
taking  it  out  and  drying  the  feet,  I  put  it  in  the  sunshine,  or  at  a  little 
distance  from  a  fire  to  get  dry.  Sometimes,  if  a  bird  is  not  fond  of 
bathing,  the  feet  will  get  clogged,  especially  during  nesting,  when  the 
claws  get  a  bit  of  hair  or  cotton  twisted  around  them  occasionally,  and  the 
feet  should  be  cleansed  in  warm  water,  and  gently  freed  from  their  trouble- 
some encumbrance. 

An  old  bird's  claws  will  sometimes  grow  too  long,  so  that  it  cannot 
perch  comfortably,  and  they  must  be  very  carefully  cut,  taking  care  not  to 
draw  blood,  or  to  injure  the  bird  in  any  way.  WThenever  possible,  it  is 
best  to  avoid  catching  the  birds,  especially  if  they  are  wild  and  fly  about 
in  alarm  ;  but  if  taught  to  consider  their  owner    as   their  friend,  they 


444  The  Canary. 


will  generally  submit,  without  much  fluttering,  to  be  taken  hold  of ;  and 
illness  generally  tames  them  sufficiently  to  make  them  quiet  when  they 
require  to  be  taken  out  of  the  cage  to  be  put  into  a  bath. 

Early  in  spring,  when  the  cock  birds  begin  to  fight,  the  hens  should  be 
taken  away,  and  kept  apart  in  another  cage  till  the  pairs  are  put  together 
in  March.  Some  people  allow  their  birds  to  choose  their  own  mates  ; 
but  a  great  deal  of  quarrelling  takes  place  before  this,  and  two  or  three 
gentlemen  will  sometimes  fix  their  affections  on  the  same  lady,  and  they 
will  get  injured  in  the  combats  that  ensue  ;  besides  which,  if  it  be  an 
object  to  secure  good  coloured  birds,  it  is  necessary  to  put  those  together 
whose  colours  contrast  well :  a  mealy  cock  with  a  jonque  hen,  or  a  green 
bird  with  a  yellow  partner.  Handsomer  birds  are  obtained  by  these 
selections  than  when  two  birds  of  the  same  colour  are  paired  ;  and  two 
crested  birds  should  never  be  put  together,  the  young  will  probably  be 
bald-headed.  It  is  best  to  give  an  old  wife  to  a  young  cock,  and  vice 
versa  ;  and  the  birds  of  a  family  should  never  be  mated  together  :  the 
progeny  will  infallibly  be  weak  and  unhealthy  if  this  is  permitted.  Two 
of  my  birds  were  accidentally  paired,  a  brother  and  sister,  and  the  result 
was  that  one  of  their  children  was  blind,  and  another  deformed.  For 
these  reasons  it  is  best  not  to  leave  the  birds  to  choose  for  themselves,  but 
to  separate  them  before  any  attachment  springs  up  among  them.  Cages 
sold  as  "  breeding  cages  "  have  a  wooden  compartment  at  the  top  of  one 
end  for  nest-boxes,  and  a  wired-off  partition  underneath,  into  which  the 
young  birds  may  be  put  when  it  is  desirable  to  separate  them  from  their 
parents.  There  are  some  advantages  in  these  cages,  and  the  birds  which 
are  shy  and  like  retirement  prefer  them  to  the  open  cages ;  the  only 
objection  to  them  is  that  they  are  inconveniently  small 'when  a  large 
family  is  hatched,  and  that  the  nest-boxes  are  necessarily  so  high  that  the 
young  birds  sometimes  fall,  when  they  come  out  of  the  nest  before  they 
are  fully  fledged,  and  are  injured  thus.  On  this  account  I  put  nest- 
baskets  into  my  cages,  at  a  little  distance  from  the  floor,  so  that  the  young 
birds  hop  in  and  out  easily  ;  and  if  the  old  birds  should  entangle  their 
feet  in  the  nest  (which  they  sometimes  do  if  the  claws  are  long  and  they 
fly  out  in  a  hurry),  and  the  young  birds  are  thrown  out  of  it,  they  are  not 
likely  to  be  so  much  hurt  as  if  they  fell  from  the  greater  height.  My 
breeding  cages  have  compartments  for  the  separate  pairs,  three  in  each, 
the  centre  space  being  kept  for  the  young  birds  of  each  family,  that  they 
may  be  fed  through  the  wires  by  the  old  birds,  when  they  have  left  the 
nest,  but  cannot  feed  themselves.  This  space  is  necessary,  too,  to  prevent 
quarrels,  as  the  birds  on  each  side  of  the  wire  partition  will  sometimes 
try  to  fight,  and  make  furious  assaults  on  their  neighbours  through  the 
bars,  or  jealousies  will  arise  to  break  their  domestic  peace,  if,  while  the 
hen  is  sitting,  her  husband  chooses  to  feed  his  neighbour's  wife  through 
the  wires.  The  pairs  should  be  kept  as  retired  and  out  of  sight  of  each 
other  as  possible.  The  materials  for  the  nest  should  be  hung  up  in  the 
cage  in  a  little  net ;  fine  moss  and  cow-hair  are  best  ;  if  cotton  wadding 
is  given  it  is  apt  to  get  matted  and  clogged  round  the  bird's  claws.  The 
hen  will  generally  make  the  nest  herself ;  but  some  birds  are  idle  about 
it,  and  do  not  take  the  trouble  to  do  more  than  to  put  a  little  moss  or 
wool  into  the  basket,  and  then  it  is  as  well  to  make  a  nest  for  her  ;  but  il 
is  not  at  all  certain  that  she  will  allow  it  to  remain  in  the  basket.     Some 


The  Canary.  445 


birds  seem  to  prefer  sitting  on  their  eggs  without  a  nest,  or  are  very- 
capricious  about  its  formation,  and  will  undo  one  day  the  work  of  the 
previous  day.  It  is  as  well  to  leave  them  to  their  own  devices  till  the 
young  are  hatched,  and  then  they  may  have  a  little  moss  or  cow-hair  put 
in  under  them  to  make  their  bed  softer.  The  hen  generally  lays  four  or 
five  eggs,  and  sits  thirteen  or  fourteen  days,  unless  she  or  her  mate  have 
a  bad  habit  of  eating  the  eggs.  They  should  be  left  in  the  nest,  and  not 
touched  or  interfered  with  at  all,  until  a  fortnight  has  elapsed  after  the 
laying  of  the  last  egg  ;  then,  if  there  are  no  signs  of  hatching,  the  eggs 
may  be  put  into  warm  water  :  if  they  float  the  probability  is  that  they  are 
addled,  and  no  young  bird  in  the  egg  ;  if  they  sink,  they  may  be  replaced 
for  a  day  or  two,  but  if  not  hatched  then,  they  should  be  taken  away,  or 
the  hen  will  go  on  sitting  uselessly  (on  dead  birds  probably).  Sometimes 
a  violent  jar,  caused  by  the  shutting  of  a  door  near  the  cage,  or  the  fall  of 
the  cage  itself,  will  kill  the  birds  in  the  egg,  or  the  mother  bird  will  cause 
their  death  by  allowing  the  eggs  to  get  cold,  if  sitting  irregularly.  The 
egg  food  must  be  provided  in  readiness  for  the  hatching  ;  and  it  is 
necessary  to  watch  the  birds'  proceedings  at  first,  lest  they  should  not 
feed  the  young  ones  ;  but  very  few  canaries  are  unnatural  enough  to  leave 
them  unfed,  although  they  do  not  like  to  be  overlooked,  and,  if  they  are 
shy  birds,  will  refuse  to  feed  their  little  ones  when  they  arc  in  sight,  so 
that  one  has  to  watch  them  without  appearing  to  do  so.  If  they  feed  them 
once  they  will  continue  to  do  so  ;  if  not,  it  will  be  needful  to  bring  them 
up  by  hand,  giving  them  the  soft  egg  food  with  a  quill,  as  with  the  nest- 
lings before  mentioned.  Afresh  nest  must  be  given  if  the  first  nest  becomes 
dirty,  and  the  young  birds  carefully  transferred  to  it  with  no  more  touching 
than  is  necessary.  Some  parent  birds  will  resent  any  interference  with 
their  young,  and  will  desert  if  they  are  meddled  with  ;  others  will  appear 
pleased  at  any  notice  bestowed  on  them,  and  will  call  our  attention  to  their 
children  with  great  exultation,  chirping  and  flying  up  to  the  nest,  looking 
in,  and  then  looking  up  in  our  faces  as  if  to  say,  "  Pray  admire  my  lovely 
infants." 

If  our  birds  are  as  familiar  with  us  as  they  ought  to  be,  they  will  exhibit 
their  confidence  in  our  sympathy  and  make  their  wants  known  to  us  in  a 
very  pleasant  and  expressive  manner  :  if  they  want  fresh  food  or  water  they 
will  go  down  to  the  glasses  and  look  into  them,  and  then  look  up  at  us  and 
chirp  ;  or  if  anything  is  amiss  with  their  nestlings,  they  will  attract  our 
attention  to  the  nest  by  signals  that  cannot  be  mistaken.  One  bird  who 
wanted  materials  for  her  nest  went  about  the  cage  picking  up  stalks,  and 
another  pulled  the  hair  of  any  human  head  that  came  within  her  reach,  to 
show  what  she  wanted. 

The  young  birds  will  generally  be  out  of  the  nest  in  about  a  fortnight 
during  the  day,  returning  to  it  at  night  for  warmth.  The  mother  bird  will 
often  begin  to  lay  again  about  this  time,  and  must  have  a  fresh  nest  given 
her  ;  and  the  young  ones  should  be  put  into  the  nursery  partition,  so  as 
to  be  fed  through  the  wires  (or  in  a  small  cage  tied  on  to  the  larger  one). 
They  are  apt  to  tease  their  mother,  or  to  break  the  eggs,  by  jumping  in  and 
out  of  the  nest  while  she  is  sitting.  I  have  sometimes  seen  three  or  four 
little  heads  peeping  out  under  her  wings  at  once,  and  occasionally  they  will 
sit  upon  her,  which  in  hot  weather  is  almost  too  much  to  endure.  The 
cock  bird  will  feed  them  while  she  is  sitting,  and  show  them  how  to  feed 


44b  The  Ca?iary. 


themselves.  They  must  have  a  supply  of  egg  food,  crushed  seed,  and  water 
in  their  compartment,  and  by  degrees  they  will  become  independent  of 
their  parents.  The  first  moulting  tries  the  young  bird's  strength  much, 
and  till  it  is  over  they  must  have  the  same  food  (egg  food  and  crushed 
hemp-seed)  in  addition  to  their  usual  provisions.  The  hen  should  not  be 
allowed  to  have  more  than  two  broods  in  the  year,  for  her  health's  sake  : 
if  she  goes  on  laying  or  sitting,  the  nest  should  be  taken  away  from  her  ; 
and  if  that  hint  is  not  sufficient,  she  must  be  separated  from  the  cock  till 
she  begins  to  moult.  The  young  birds  should  be  within  hearing  of  a  good 
songster  till  after  their  moulting  is  over,  when  they  will  begin  to  warble  feebly. 
If  a  nightingale  or  woodlark  were  to  be  had  as  music  master,  they  would 
learn  his  notes  ;  but  I  do  not  advise  any  one  to  keep  these  birds  in  confine- 
ment ;  they  are  not  fitted  for  it  by  temperament  or  constitution,  and  their 
song  is  much  more  glad  and  sweet  in  their  native  woods.  I  had  one 
canary  who  had  learned  several  nightingale  notes,  and  used  to  repeat  the 
"Jug;  jug"  continually  :  he  would  not  sing  in  company  with  others,  but 
taught  the  young  birds  very  well  from  a  little  distance.  They  will  often 
learn  best  when  their  singing  master  is  out  of  sight. 

Cross-breeding  has  changed  the  canary  of  the  present  day  greatly 
from  the  original  wild  green  bird  of  Teneriffe  and  the  Canary  Isles,  and 
the  varieties  of  shape  and  plumage  are  endless.  There  are  canary  societies 
and  bird-shows  now,  and  prizes  are  given  for  birds  which  excel  in  beauty 
or  song.  They  are  arranged  in  different  divisions,  and  connoisseurs  talk 
knowingly  of  "jonques,"  "spangles,"  " mealy  birds  ;"  "flaxen,"  "grey," 
"cinnamon,"  and  "agate-coloured"  canaries  ;  all  which  have  their  distin- 
guishing merits.  Then  there  is  the  German  canary,  a  small,  compact, 
smooth  bird,  with  a  sweet  but  not  very  powerful  voice  ;  and  the  Belgian, 
its  opposite  in  every  respect,  very  long  and  slender,  with  exceedingly  high 
shoulders  and  long  legs,  standing  so  uprightly  on  its  perch  as  to  give  one 
the  idea  that  it  would  fall  backwards.  The  Norwich,  or  London  fancy 
prize  canary,  is  a  large  square  bird,  with  a  massive  head,  deep  orange  in 
plumage  all  over  the  body,  excepting  the  wings  and  tail,  which  should  be 
black.  This  at  least  used  to  be  the  prize  bird,  but  every  season  has  its 
fashion  in  birds  as  well  as  in  dress.  To  my  mind  it  is  the  most  beautiful 
of  all  the  canaries  when  perfect,  but  it  is  very  difficult  to  get  one  without 
white  or  green  feathers,  or  irregularly  marked  ;  and  a  perfect  bird  will 
become  imperfect  after  its  first  two  moults.  This  is  the  case  also  with  the 
lizard  canary,  which  should  be  of  a  greenish  bronze  throughout,  excepting 
the  crown  of  the  head,  which  is  yellow  in  the  gold-spangled,  and  white  in 
the  silver-spangled  lizard.  The  markings  or  spangles  on  the  back  are 
very  uniform  and  regular,  and  there  ought  to  be  no  yellow  or  white  feathers 
in  the  wings  or  tail :  but  these  generally  come  when  the  bird  is  two  years  old. 

Many  of  the  foreign  finches  do  well  in  cages  or  aviaries  where  a  mo- 
derate degree  of  warmth  is  always  preserved  :  they  are  very  beautiful,  and 
many  sing  as  well  as  their  English  relations  ;  but  they  are  rare  and  ex- 
pensive. They  are  fed  on  the  same  kind  of  food — canary,  hemp,  poppy, 
rape,  millet-seed,  &c.,  and  generally  require  the  same  treatment  as  the 
canary.  Many  other  seed-eating  birds  are  more  easily  procured,  and  do 
equally  well  in  confinement.  It  is  impossible  to  enumerate  half  of  these, 
and  every  year  adds  to  the  list  of  imported  foreign  birds  ;  I  will  only  men- 
tion a  few  of  those  which  I  know  personally  as  domestic  pets. 


The  Java  Sparrow,  etc. 


447 


The  Java  sparrows  are  very  pretty  and  affectionate,  and  very  happy  in 
confinement ;  and  they  are  hardy,  and  can  be  kept  even  in  an  aviary  where 
canaries  would  live.  They  are  about  the  size  of  a  bullfinch,  and  like  it  in 
shape ;  grey  in  plumage,  and  so  neat  and  smooth  that  the  feathers  seem 
to  be  arranged  so  as  never  to  stand  apart  from  one  another,  and  all  appear 
covered  with  bloom  like  that  of  plums  ;  the  head  and  throat  are  black,  the 


Java  Sparrow. 

cheeks  white  ;  the  beak  thick  like  that  of  a  bullfinch,  but  of  a  bright  rose 
colour.  The  song  is  very  poor  and  monotonous.  They  eat  canary  and 
millet-seed,  but  might  well  be  fed  on  rice,  one  should  think,  as  they  are  most 
destructive  in  Java  and  China  in  the  rice-fields,  and  are  called  Paddybirds 
{Le  Pcdda,  on  oiseau  de  riz — Buffon)  on  that  account. 

The  cut-throat  and  diamond  sparrows  are  veiy  pretty  birds,  about  the 


Diamond  and  Cut-throat  Sparrows. 


size  of  a  goldfinch,  and  their  feathers  are  beautifully  marked  and  spangled  ; 
but  they  are  not  interesting  birds,  and  their  harsh  twittering  is  not  agree- 


44* 


The  Dominican  and  Whidah  Birds. 


able.     Their  food  is  the  same  as  that  of  the  Java  sparrows,  with  the  addi- 
tion of  chickweed  and  cracknels,  of  which  they  are  fond. 

The  indigo  bird,  Dominican,  and  Whidah  bird,  are  all  buntings, 
easily  to  be  procured,  and  veiy  beautiful.  The  former  comes  from 
Carolina  and  the  neighbourhood  of  New  York  :  its  plumage  is  bright 
blue  throughout,  excepting  the  larger  quill  feathers  and  tail,  which  are 
brown.  It  may  be  kept  in  a  bell-shaped  cage,  and  fed  on  millet,  canary, 
poppy,  and  bruised  hemp- 
seed.  The  song  resembles 
that  of  the  linnet. 

The  Dominican  and  Whi- 
dah bird  are  both  Africans  : 
the  latter  is  chiefly  remark- 
able for  its  long  and  curious 
tail,  for  the  accommodation 
of  which  it  requires  a  very 
large  cage.  The  body  is 
about  the  size  of  that  of  the 
linnet.  The  head  of  the 
male  bird  is  black,  and  the 
throat,  wings,  back,  and  tail 
are  of  the  same  colour ;  the 
back  of  the  neck  is  orange, 
and  the  breast  and  upper 
part  of  the  stomach  white. 
The  four  outer  feathers  of 
the  tail  are  about  four  inches 
long,  and  very  broad  ;  the 
next  two  are  thirteen  inches 
long,  broad  in  the  middle,  and 
running  almost  to  a  point 
at  the  ends  ;  the  two  centre 
feathers  are  glossy,  and  a 
little  arched,  like  those  of  a 
cock  ;  thread-like  filaments 
spring  from  the  longer  fea- 
thers and  float  about  with 
every  movement  of  the  bird, 
which  is  very  lively,  and 
seems  to  take  great  delight 
in  bathing  and  trimming  its 
feathers:  it  moults  twice  in 
the  year,  and  is  without  its 
tail  from  November  to  May. 
The  female  is  entirely  brown, 
almost  black,  but  does  not 
acquire  its  full  plumage  until 
it  is  two  or  three  years  old. 
The  Whidah  bird  has  a  low, 
soft,  rather  melancholy  song. 
It  should  be  fed  on  canary 


Whidah  Bird. 


TJie  Cardinal  Grosbeak.  449 

and  millet-seed  and  barley-meal,  with  lettuce,  endive,  and  other  green 
f  od  from  time  to  time,  and  will  live  in  confinement  from  eight  to  twelve 
years.  The  same  treatment  will  answer  for  the  Dominican,  but  a  large 
bell-shaped  cage  is  more  suitable  for  this  bird,  whose  tail  is  not  so  long. 

The  cardinal  grosbeak,  or  Virginian  nightingale,  is  a  very  beautiful 
red  bird,  with  glossy  black  feathers  about  the  head  and  neck.  It  is  about 
eight  inches  long,  of  which  the  tail  measures  three.  The  song  is  varied  and 
constant,  and  continues  all  through  the  year,  except  while  it  is  moulting. 
The  hen,  which  is  of  a  reddish-brown  colour,  is  said  to  sing  nearly  as 
well  as  the  cock  ;  and  perhaps  that  is  the  reason  why  these  birds  are 
better  apart — the  cock  is  jealous  of  his  mate's  rivalry  of  voice.  Bird 
dealers  have  so  often  pronounced  an  unfavourable  opinion  of  the  cardinal 
grosbeak  as  regards  his  capabilities  as  a  domestic  pet,  that  I  was  sur- 
prised to  hear  of  one  which  was  so  exceedingly  tame  that  he  would 
carry  his  favourite  tit-bits  to  his  mistress,  and  try  to  make  her  eat 
crushed  hemp  and  caterpillars  !     The  bird  is  naturally,  I  believe,  very 


Virginian  Nightingale. 

nervous  and  sensitive,  so  that  it  would  fret  and  chafe  in  a  shop  sur- 
rounded by  other  birds,  and  its  wild  fluttering  would  give  the  idea  that 
it  could  never  be  tamed  ;  but  patient  kindness  and  gentleness  will  make 
it  a  most  attractive  and  pleasant  pet.  It  should  be  fed  chiefly  on  canary- 
seed,  but  should  have  a  few  hemp-seeds  every  day,  and  four  or  five  meal- 
worms, or  spiders,  grubs,  or  caterpillars — some  animal  food,  in  short,  to 
keep  it  well  and  vigorous.  Spanish  nuts,  almonds,  walnuts,  and  Indian 
corn,  may  be  given  as  a  treat ;  and  a  lump  of  basalt  and  a  little  piece 
of  chalk  should  be  put  in  the  cage,  and  the  bird  should  always  be  allowed 
a  bath,  and  should  be  kept  out  of  draughts.  I  give  the  directions  which 
have  been  given  to  me  by  a  lady  whose  Virginian  nightingale  has 
flourished  under  her  judicious  care  many  years.  I  have  never  had  one 
myself. 

The  beautiful  little  avadavats  and  waxbills  I  have  kept,  and  I  can 
thoroughly  recommend  them  as  pets  for  the  drawing-room  or  conserva- 
tory.    In  the  latter  atmosphere  they  flourish  best,  for  they  are  rather 


45° 


The  Avadavat  and  Wax  Bill,  etc. 


delicate  birds,  and  do  not  like  changes  of  temperature.  The  Avadavats 
are  very  small  red  and  brown  birds,  and  with  their  bright  red  beaks, 
spreading  fan-like  tails,  and  spotted  plumage,  are  exceedingly  pretty. 
They  sit  in  a  line  on  a  perch  as  close  as  possible  together,  and  are  very 
affectionate.  Their  song  is  sweet  and  soft,  and  one  will  stand  up  and 
warble  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  sit  down,  and  another  will  spring  up 
and  sing  and  subside  into  quietude,  and  so  on.  It  is  the  prettiest  thing 
imaginable  to  see  a  number  of  these  little  creatures  in  a  cage  of  delicate 
workmanship,  darting  about,  pluming  themselves,  washing,  and  singing, 
and  appearing  so  thoroughly  happy.  They  live  very  sociably  with  Silver 
Beaks,  Cordon  Bleus,  and  Australian,  African,  St.  Helena,  Orange,  and 
Zebra  Wax  Bills,  which  are  about  their  own  size,  and  require  the  same 
food  and  warmth.  They  feed  chiefly  on  millet-seed,  but  will  eat  canary- 
seed  as  well,  and  must  be  abundantly  supplied  with  water.  It  is  neces- 
sary, however,  to  take  precautions  against  their  being  chilled  by  being 
too  constantly  in  the  bath,  especially  in  winter.     They  are  so  fond  of 


Avadavat  and  Wax  Bill. 


washing  that  they  will  get  into  their  water-glass,  if  possible,  all  day  long, 
and  I  lost  several  of  my  birds  from  excessive  bathing  :  I  could  not  keep 
them  out  of  the  water,  and  when  the  sun  was  not  shining,  of  course  they 
could  not  get  dry  or  warm  for  some  time  after  they  had  been  ducking 
themselves  so  thoroughly.  I  kept  them  in  a  cage  made  on  purpose  for 
them,  with  fine  silver  wires  and  glass  sides  round  the  lower  half  of  the 
cage  ;  but  I  do  not  think  this  answered  for  them.  The  glass  prevented 
the  floor  from  getting  dry  quickly  after  it  had  been  wetted  by  the  splash- 
ing of  the  water,  and  it  never  looked  clean  for  the  same  reason — it  was 
so  constantly  splashed.  The  wires  must  be  small  and  closely  put 
together,  as  the  birds  would  get  out  between  the  wires  of  an  ordinary 
cage  ;  but  I  think  tin  wire  is  preferable  to  silver,  and  more  easily  kept 
clean.  The  birds  must  have  a  thick  covering  at  night,  and  never  be 
exposed  to  chilling  draughts.  A  conservatory  or  greenhouse,  kept  at  a 
moderate  degree  of  heat  always,  is  certainly  the  most  desirable  abode  for 
these  little  foreigners. 

An  article  on  domestic  pets  seems  scarcely  complete  without  some 


The  Grey  Parrot  and  Cockatoo. 


451 


notice  of  parrots  and  parrakeets  ;  but  there  are  so  many  varieties  of  this 
tribe  of  birds,  and  they  come  from  so  many  parts  of  the  world,  that  they 
require  a  book  to  themselves.  I  can  only  make  a  few  suggestions  for  their 
treatment  generally.  Those  which  are  natives  of  tropical  climates  require 
warmth  and  abundance  of  farinaceous  food  and  fruit.  Bread  and  milk 
should  be  the  staple  prison  diet  of  parrots  (the  bread  should  be  soaked 
first  in  boiling  water,  squeezed  as  dry  as  possible,  and  then  allowed  to 
absorb  as  much  fresh  boiled  milk  as  it  will  hold),  adding  Indian  corn, 
biscuits,  nuts,  almonds  (not  bitter  almonds),  fruit  (hard  and  soft),  peach 
and  plum  kernels,  cherries;  grapes,  pears,  &c,  grain,  and  seed  for  the 


Grey  Parrot  and  Cockatoo. 

larger  birds ;  and  the  smaller  kinds  should  have  hemp,  canary,  and  millet 
seeds,  with  fruit.  All  should  have  water  for  drinking  and  bathing  within 
reach ;  and  if  the  birds  will  not  go  into  water,  it  is  well  to  sprinkle  a  little 
warm  water  on  them  occasionally,  and  put  them  into  the  sunshine  that 
they  may  plume  themselves  and  clean  their  feathers.  Great  cleanliness 
is  necessary  to  keep  parrots  in  health,  and  their  feet  must  be  frequently 
washed  if  they  get  dirty  and  they  will  not  bathe  themselves.  They  are 
subject  to  diseased  feet,  and  their  perches  should  be  covered  with  flannel, 
and  the  bottom  of  the  cage  should  have  a  grating  with  a  drawer  under- 
neath it  always  covered  with  sand.     Lettuce  or  water-cress  may  be  giver 

G  G  2 


452 


The  Australian  Par  raked. 


to  these  birds  occasionally ;  and  it  is  said  that  a  chili-pod  given  from  time 
to  time  is  useful — when  they  are  moulting  they  may  have  one  or  two  cut 
up  small  once  a  week.  If  they  have  an  attack  of  asthma  they  should  have 
a  few  grains  of  cayenne-pepper  mixed  with  their  bread  and  milk.  Meat, 
sugar,  and  sweetmeats,  are  all  unwholesome  for  parrots. 

Within  the  last  few  years  a  great  number  of  the  Australian  grass  parra- 
keets  have  been  brought  to  England.  They  were  very  expensive  at  first, 
but  I  should  suppose  they  must  be  cheap  now,  for  I  hear  of  some  thousands 
being  brought  over  at  once  for  sale.  They  are  very  delightful  pets,  and 
their  plumage  is  very  beautiful :  one  of  the  most  charming  is  the  warbling 
grass  parrakeet  or  budgerigar,  which  is  said  to  breed  in  captivity.  Those 
which  I  kept  were,  I  think,  confined  in  too  small  a  cage,  and  to  see  them 
to  advantage  they  should  be  in  a  large,  or  rather  a  long  cage,  along  which 
they  can  run,  or  in  a  room  or  aviary.  In  their  native  land  they  feed  in 
large  flocks  upon  the  grass  seeds  in  the  plains,  and  rest  during  the  heat  of 
the  day  upon  the  branches  of  the  gum-trees,  in  the  hollows  of  which  they 
lay  their  eggs.  Their  plumage  is  very 
beautiful;  green  is  the  prevailing 
colour,  but  it  is  very  much  spotted 
with  black,  and  the  breast  and  under 
tail  feathers  are  yellow,  and  some  of 
the  feathers  of  the  wings  blue-black. 
They  have  bright  blue  spots  on  the 
cheeks,  and  the  only  distinctive  mark 
of  the  sexes  is,  that  the  cock  bird  has 
bluish  nostrils  and  the  hen  brown 
ones.  They  are  very  loving  birds, 
and  are  continually  caressing  each 
other,  keeping  up  a  constant  chirping 
and  chattering  all  the  time.  My  pair 
would  sometimes  flap  their  wings  and 
utter  a  harsh  disagreeable  cry,  but 
I  think  this  was  owing  to  their  dislike 
to  the  smallness  of  their  cage.  I  put 
a  cocoa-nut  into  it  in  the  hope  that 
they  may  be  induced  to  breed,  but 
they  never  took  any  notice  of  it,  ex- 
cept to  bite  the  outside,  and  I  imagined 
that  they  ought  to  have  a  cage  four 
feet  long  to  live  in,  and  to  be  left  in  a 
much  quieter  room  than  mine  was  ;  they  are  shy  birds,  and  I  could  never 
succeed  in  making  mine  familiar  with  me — they  were  never  tempted  by 
any  dainty  I  could  offer  them,  and,  indeed,  never  approached  any  food  to 
which  they  were  not  accustomed,  so  that  I  could  not  change  their  diet : 
the  only  treat  they  had  was  a  bundle  of  oats,  out  of  which  they  could  pull 
the  grain,  and  that  they  appeared  to  like.  I  used  sometimes  to  let  them 
out  of  their  cage,  and  their  great  delight  was  to  run  along  the  green  bars 
of  the  Venetian  blinds  ;  but  they  were  so  crafty  that  I  found  it  impossible 
to  catch  them,  and  sometimes  had  to  wait  till  late  in  the  day  before  hunger 
induced  them  to  return  to  their  cage,  and  then  they  would  often  pop  in  and 
out  again  before  any  one  could  shut  the  door  of  the  cage.     They  lived 


Australian  Parrakeets. 


The  Dove. 


453 


very  contentedly  in  the  large  winter  cage  with  the  canaries,  but  took  very 
little  notice  of  them,  being  too  much  occupied  with  one  another  to  care  for 
others.  The  hen  is  said  to  lay  her  two  eggs  about  Christmas,  and  to  be 
a  very  attentive  mother,  but  I  could  not  get  mine  even  to  enter  the  cocoa- 
nut  I  was  told  to  provide  for  a  nest.  These  birds  seemed  to  like  to  get 
hold  of  a  large  piece  of  gravel  to  carry  about  the  cage,  so  I  put  a  piece  of 
charcoal  in  for  them,  but  I  do  not  think  they  touched  it.  I  always  gave 
them  water,  but  they  did  not  drink  much,  and  I  never  saw  them  bathe, 
although  Australian  travellers  speak  of  flocks  of  them  coming  regularly 
every  evening  to  the  springs  of  water.  Like  the  love-birds,  which  they 
much  resemble,  these  parrakeets  are  unhappy  alone,  and  must  always 
have  a  companion. 

This  is  the  case  also  with  doves,  which  look  very  disconsolate  without 
a  mate,  to  whom  they  are  constantly  cooing.  They  are  pretty,  gentle, 
quiet  birds,  and  easily  tamed.  The  stock  dove,  ring  dove,  turtle  dove, 
and  collared  turtle,  are  all  kept  in  confinement,  but  they  should  all  have  a 
great  deal  of  air.  If  kept  in  a  wicker  cage,  it  should  be  carried  indoors 
at  night  (for,  being  natives  of  hot  countries,  they  do  not  bear  cold  well), 
and  taken  out  of  doors  early  in  the  morning.   The  German  peasants  keep 


Doves- 


doves  constantly  in  their  cottages,  from  a  fancy  that  they  cure  colds  and 
rheumatism  by  taking  the  complaints  themselves  ;  and  I  believe  it  is  true 
that  doves  are  subject  to  the  diseases  which  people  shut  up  in  the  same 
room  with  them  have,  such  as  small-pox,  swollen  legs,  and  tumours  in  the 
feet ;  but  this  is  probably  due  to  the  close  unwholesome  condition  and  bad 
air  of  the  room,  which  affects  birds  and  human  beings  alike.  They  are 
best  kept  in  a  conservatory  or  aviary,  unless  they  are  tame  enough  to  fly 


454  The  Nightingale. 


in  and  out  of  the  house,  and  return  to  their  cages  at  night  or  when  they 
want  food,  in  which  case  they  may  be  allowed  their  liberty.  They  must 
have  plenty  of  fine  dry  gravel  and  conveniences  for  bathing,  and  their  food 
should  be  barley,  wheat,  pease,  vetches,  hemp,  and  canary  seed.  They 
like  variety  in  it,  and  are  fond  of  bread  dry  or  soaked,  the  seeds  of  pines 
and  firs,  and  linseed  and  myrtle  berries.  They  ought  to  have  bay  salt 
mixed  with  old  mortar  or  gravel :  the  salt  is  good  for  their  throats,  which 
often  become  diseased.  Doves  generally  have  two  broods  in  the  year,  two 
young  ones  at  a  time,  which  they  feed  from  their  crops.  I  have  been  told 
that  they  are  often  unnatural  enough  to  neglect  this  duty ;  but  I  do  not 
think  this  is  generally  the  case.  The  young  are  so  dependent  upon  their 
parents,  that  they  could  hardly  be  reared  by  hand.  They  are  not  very 
interesting  birds,  but  have  great  beauty  of  plumage,  and  no  disagreeable 
characteristics  to  detract  from  their  merits  as  domestic  pets. 

It  may  be  remarked  by  my  readers  that  I  have  not  recommended  the 
nightingales,  larks,  and  many  of  our  most  renowned  songsters  to  be  kept 
in  confinement.  I  have  not  done  so,  because  they  are  not  fitted  by  Nature 
to  be  imprisoned  in  cages.  Those  especially  which  are  migratory  birds 
are  restless  and  miserable  when  the  season  comes  for  their  flight  to  other 
countries  ;  they  will  beat  wildly  against  the  bars  of  their  prison,  forsake 
their  food,  and  gasp  for  breath,  and  when  quieter,  will  be  very  dull  and 
moping  for  some  days.  This  is  one  of  the  difficulties  of  keeping  nightin- 
gales, which  suffer  much  from  this  impulse  to  migrate.  They  require  a 
spacious  cage,  at  least  20  inches  long,  9  broad,  and  12  high ;  the  roof 


Nightingale. 

should  be  lined  with  green  baize  or  some  soft  material,  and  the  three 
perches  with  which  it  should  be  provided  must  be  covered  with  this  to 
protect  the  birds'  feet,  which  are  very  tender.  They  are  fond  of  bathing, 
but  care  must  be  taken  that  the  cage  does  not  become  saturated  with 
water.  Some  nightingales  dislike  a  strong  light,  and  will  not  sing  in  sun- 
shine, and  they  must  be  humoured  and  treated  very  gently.  If  possible, 
they  should  be  allowed  an  unfurnished  room  to  live  in,  and  if  the  sun 
enters  this  freely,  and  they  can  fly  about  among  fir  branches  or  other 
evergreens,  with  plenty  of  sand,  clean  water,  and  the  food  they  like,  they 


The  Blackmp.  455 


will  be  much  happier  and  healthier  than  in  a  cage,  although,  perhaps, 
they  may  not  sing  as  well,  especially  if  in  company  with  other  birds,  as 
in  solitary  confinement.  They  must  have  ants'  eggs  and  meal-worms 
daily,  if  possible  ;  if  not,  their  food  should  be  roasted  bullock's  heart,  and 
raw  carrot  grated,  and  a  little  lean  beef  or  mutton,  stale  bread,  and  hard 
egg  occasionally,  ripe  elderberries,  and  spiders  and  caterpillars.  They 
need  animal  food  daily,  and  when  moulting  require  the  most  nourishing 
diet,  and  to  be  protected  from  cold  and  draughts.  They  are  fond  of  boiled 
vegetables,  and  pudding,  bread  soaked  in  milk  and  squeezed  dry,  and 
scalded  hemp-seed  crushed,  and  various  pastes  are  given  to  them  and 
other  soft-billed  birds,  which  seem  to  agree  well  with  nightingales. 

The  Blackcap,  which  is  sometimes  called  the  Mock  nightingale,  red- 
start, whitethroat,  and  other  warblers,  require  much  the  same  treatment. 
The  blackcap  should  never  be  without  fruit  of  some  kind,  cherries,  cur- 
rants, raspberries,  elderberries,  or  ripe  apples.  For  all  these  birds,  Mr. 
Sweet  recommends  hemp-seed  soaked  in  boiling  water  and  bruised, 
mixed  with  scalded  bread  (made  without  salt),  and  a  little  lean  meat  finely 
minced.  This  must  of  course  be  given  fresh  every  morning,  and  the 
birds  should  have  hard  egg  also.  Other  bird-fanciers  recommend  boiled 
carrot  or  beetroot  mashed,  and  pastes  made  of  white  bread  twice  baked 
and  pounded,  with  milk  poured  upon  it,  and  mixed  with  barley  meal  or 
wheat  meal,  and  the  "  German  Paste ;;  made  as  follows  : — Heat  two  table- 


Blackcap. 

spoonfuls  of  melted  lard,  free  from  salt,  in  a  saucepan  till  nearly  boiling  ; 
stir  into  this  while  near,  not  on,  the  fire,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  treacle,  and 
three  pints  and  a  half  of  pea-meal  till  the  mixture  becomes  a  stiff  crumbly 
paste  ;  a  few  more  seeds  may  be  mixed  with  this,  or  a  little  stale  bread 
grated,  or  well  boiled  mealy  potato  can  be  added  to  it  when  given  to  the 
birds.  It  will  keep  a  long  time  in  a  glass  ja,r,  and  both  seed-eating  and 
soft-billed  birds  will  thrive  on  it.  If  birds  of  various  kinds  are  kept 
together  in  a  room  or  aviary,  it  is  necessary  to  give  some  general  food 
which  those  that  live  upon  seeds,  insects,  berries,  and  fruit,  may  equally 
enjoy,  and  these  pastes  are  suitable  for  all.  The  seed-eating  birds  have  a 
mixture  of  seeds  as  well,  and  the  insectivorous  birds  should  be  supplied 
with  meal-worms,  cockroaches,  and  crickets,  easily  procured  from  a  baker's 
shop,  and  dried  ants'  eggs.    These  can  be  obtained  in  summer  by  un- 


45^ 


The  Gold-Crested  Wren.— The  Robin. 


covering  a  nest  of  the  large  wood  ant,  and  placing  the  eggs  on  a  cloth 
in  the  sun,  with  the  corners  turned  up  over  small  leafy  branches.  The 
ants,  in  order  to  protect  them  from  the  sun,  will  carry  their  eggs  under 
shelter,  and  thus  they  are  procured  free  from  dirt  and  from  the  ants  also. 


Gold- Crested  Wren. 

They  may  be  dried  in  a  frying-pan  on  sand  over  a  slow  fire,  and  kept  in 
the  sand  in  a  jar  all  through  the  winter.  All  birds  like  them.  The  most 
beautiful  of  our  small  birds,  the  gold-crested  wrens,  delight  in  them,  and 
must  have  them  as  well  as  bread-and-milk  or  soaked  biscuit  beaten  up 
with  milk ;  but  these  are  such  delicate  birds,  and  suffer  so  much  from 


Robin. 


cold,  that  it  is  very  difficult  to  keep  them  alive  through  the  winter.  They 
might  do  well  in  a  plant  case  lined  with  a  fine  woollen  net,  with  a  myrtle 
or  tiny  fir  tree  to  perch  upon.  They,  like  the  robins,  are  quarrelsome 
birds,  and  do  not  live  well  with  others  in  a  confined  space.  Titmice  are 
such  murderous  little  creatures,  that  it  is  cruel  to  put  them  with  other 
birds,  for,  besides  fighting  with  them  continually,  they  will  hang  on  to 
them  and  hug  them  round  the  neck,  to  rob  them  of  any  dainty  food  they 
are  eating,  to  which  they  may  take  a  fancy,  and  torment  them  exceedingly. 
Robins  and  larks  can  only  be  kept  happily  in  an  outdoor  aviary.    This 


The  Skylark. 


457 


should  be  constructed  of  iron  and  glass  upon  a  basement  of  brick  or 
stone,  with  an  earthen  floor  beaten  hard,  and  be  warmed  by  pipes,  so  as 
to  keep  up  an  even  temperature  in  cold  weather.  The  glass  should 
have  wire  within  it,  so  as  to  be  opened  freely  in  summer,  and  be  shaded 
by  blinds  at  pleasure,  unless  it  is  well  sheltered  by  creeping  plants 
without,  and  should  be  provided  with  wooden  shutters  for  the  winter. 
Within  the  aviary  there  should  be  a  small  fountain  playing  in  the  centre, 
with  a  basin  for  the  birds  to  drink  and  bathe  in,  and  plenty  of  dwarf 
shrubs  and  creepers  for  them  to  build  and  hide  in.  It  is  best  to  keep 
these  in  pots  when  practicable,  in  order  to  change  them  for  fresh  shrubs 
when  they  become  spoiled.      The  seed  should  be  put  in  bird-hoppers 


Skylark. 

against  the  wall,  and  there  should  be  shelves  and  perches  for  the  birds  to 
roost  on,  and  in  the  breeding  season,  wicker  baskets  and  boxes  for  them 
to  build  in.  The  floor  of  the  aviary  must  be  kept  covered  with  sand  and 
small  gravel,  and  old  mortar  well  dried  and  bruised  is  good  for  the  birds 
also.  Of  course,  anything  belonging  to  the  aviary  must  be  as  clean  as 
possible,  and  the  water  always  fresh  and  cool.  In  fitting  up  aviaries  or 
cages,  the  natural  habits  and  tastes  of  the  birds  which  are  to  live  in  them 
must  be  carefully  considered — their  comfort  is  sometimes  sacrificed  to 
ornament — and  they  should  always  have  shade  as  well  as  sunshine  provided 
for  them,  and  snug  corners  for  those  who  love  retirement.  Care  must  be 
taken  to  exclude  fog  and  damp,  and  in  sweeping  out  the  aviary,  to  avoid 
raising  much  dust,  from  which  the  sensitive  lungs  of  many  of  the  birds 
would  suffer  exceedingly.  The  air  from  a  close  stove  or  any  noxious 
gas  too,  would  cause  them  much  discomfort,  if  it  did  not  stop  their 
respiration  altogether,  so  that  means  must  be  taken  to  secure  good 
ventilation. 

If  we  keep  birds  in  captivity  at  all,  it  is  our  bounden  duty  to  keep 
them  as  healthy  and  happy  as  possible  ;  and  unless  we  are  well  acquainted 
with  their  several  wants  and  characteristic  tastes,  we  cannot  expect  them 
to  be  our  fond  familiar  friends,  or  to  delight  us  with  the  exhibition  of  their 
natural  beauties  and  talents.  We  must  love  our  little  prisoners  and  con- 
sult their  happiness  if  we  would  entice  them  to  treat  us  as  friends,  rather 
than  gaolers, 


458 


PRESCRIPTIONS 

For   SLIGHT    FAMILY    AILMENTS,    REMEDIES   in 
CASES  of  ACCIDENTAL  POISONING,  Etc. 

BY  A  MEMBER  OF  THE  ROYAL  COLLEGE  OF  SURGEONS. 


Boils       and       Carbuncles. 

Symptoms. — Boils  are  distinguish- 
able from  carbuncles  by  their  smaller 
size,  by  their  conical  shape,  inflamed 
base,  and  tendency  to  form  matter 
at  the  point.  Beneath  the  matter  is 
a  portion  of  dead  tissue,  or  "  core." 

Carbuncle  is  a  large  and  flat- 
tened compound  boil,  without  the 
tendency  to  present  a  conical  point. 
A  carbuncle  tends  to  form  matter, 
and  opens  at  various  parts  of  its  sur- 
face. At  these  points  the  skin  gives 
way,  presenting  a  riddled  aspect, 
gradually  running  into  one  sore.  The 
inflamed  base  of  a  carbuncle  ex- 
tends wider  than  that  of  a  boil,  and 
has  a  harder  feel,  resembling  indeed 
the  consistence  of  brawn. 

The  pain  of  a  carbuncle  is  often 
very  severe.  The  constitutional  dis- 
turbance is  marked  by  a  low  state 
of  the  vital  powers. 

Treatment. — A  small  boil  requires 
no  treatment  beyond  protection  from 
friction,  by  diachylon  or  soap  plas- 
ter. If,  however,  it  be  large,  in- 
flamed, and  painful,  water  dressing 
or  warm  poultices  should  be  applied, 
until  the  core  has  sloughed  out.  It 
should  then  be  dressed  with  zinc 
ointment. 

A  carbuncle  should,  in  the  first 
instance,  be  kept  well  covered  with 
the  water  dressing  protected  by  oil 
silk,  until  the  surface  begins  to  give 
way,  and  presents  numerous  small 
yellow  points  of  matter  ;  it  should 
then  be  dressed  with  strips  of  lint 
smeared  with  the  yellow  basilicon 
ointment,  covered  outside  with  linen, 


moistened  with  Condy's  fluid  or  car- 
bolic oil,  if  there  be  any  offensive 
odour.  After  the  slough  of  dead 
tissue  beneath  the  skin  has  sepa- 
rated, the  sore  may  be  dressed  with 
zinc  ointment. 

The  diet  should  be  full  and  nutri- 
tious, with  a  moderate  allowance  of 
stimulants. 

The  medicines  that  will  be  useful 
will  be  quinine,  compound  tincture 
of  bark,  muriated  tincture  of  iron,  &c. 

Bruises.  The  variation  of  the 
colours  of  bruises  is  owing  to  changes 
going  on  in  the  blood  which  has 
been  effused  under  the  skin  by  vio- 
lence. A  bruise  generally  goes 
through  all  the  various  tints  from 
black  to  green  and  yellowish-green. 
Bruises  sometimes,  from  the  large 
quantity  of  blood  effused,  become 
inflamed  and  form  abscesses. 

Treatment. — To  prevent  or  dimi- 
nish discoloration  from  bruises,  it  is 
as  well  to  apply  cold  or  warm  water 
as  soon  after  the  violence  has  been 
done  as  possible.    To  allay  the  swell- 
ing or  inflamation  which  may  fol- 
low, cooling  lotions  should  be  used. 
A  mixture  of  tincture  of  arnica  and 
water  has  been  strongly  recommend- 
ed, but  a  mixture  of  spirit  and  water, 
or  spirit,  vinegar,  and  water,  will  be 
found  quite  as  efficacious. 
Spirits  of  wine,  I  oz. 
Vinegar,  I  oz. 
Water,  to  4  oz. 

Graze  or  Abrasion. — An  abrasion 
of  the  skin,  or  what  is  commonly 
termed  "  barked  skin,"  is  the  sim- 
plest form  of  wound.      It  consists 


Accidents,  Diseases,  and  Symptoms. 


459 


in  the  superficial  skin  being  rubbed 
off  by  violence.  This  form  of  injury 
of  course  varies  in  severity  as  the 
amount  of  violence  varies. 

Treatment. — For  a  slight  abrasion 
a  piece  of  linen  or  lint  wetted  with 
cold  water,  and  covered  with  oil- 
silk  or  gutta-percha  tissue,  will  gene- 
rally be  sufficient  dressing.  Or  it 
may  be  covered  with  goldbeater's 
skin. 

For  a  graze  or  bruised  wound  of 
considerable  extent  or  depth,  a  dress- 
ing of  carbolic  acid  and  oil  will  be 
found  a  very  serviceable  applica- 
tion. Take  of  carbolic,  I  part  ;  best 
olive  oil,  28  parts — apply  on  lint  or 
soft  linen. 

In  a  majority  of  cases  any  simple 
application  that  will  protect  the  de- 
nuded surface,  while  it  is  being 
skinned  over,  is  enough — e.g.,  sper- 
maceti ointment,  spread  on  linen, 
will  be  all  that  is  required.  One 
method  of  treatment  for  abrasions 
is  to  apply  a  piece  of  dry  lint,  and 
let  the  blood  soak  into  it.  This 
may  be  allowed  to  dry  on  the  sore, 
and  thus  form  an  artificial  scab  ;  or 
the  lint  may  first  be  soaked  in  com- 
pound tincture  of  Benzoin,  known  as 
Friar's  Balsam. 

Burns  and  Scalds.  The  effect 
of  these  will  vary  with  the  extent  of 
surface,  or  the  depth  of  skin  injured 
or  destroyed.  Recovery,  moreover, 
must  depend  greatly  upon  the  state 
of  health  at  the  time  of  the  accident. 
Under  ordinary  states  of  health  a 
superficial  scald  or  burn,  not  destroy- 
ing the  skin  below  the  surface  and 
not  involving  more  than  half  the 
superfices,  may  be  recovered  from. 
Less  than  half  of  this  extent  of 
burn  may,  however,  be  fatal,  if  it 
extend  to  the  true  skin  and  the 
muscles  below. 

Burns  as  a  rule  destroy  more  than 
scalds.  Scalds  usually  form  blisters 
and  go  no  deeper,  but  burns  may 
char  the  deeper  skin  and  the  mus- 


cles beneath  ;     they  are,  therefore, 
the  more  dangerous  of  the  two. 

Treatment  —Should  the  burn  have 
resulted  from  the  clothes  catching 
fire,  they  should  carefully  be  re- 
moved, so  as  not  to  break  the 
blisters  which  may  be  forming  or 
formed,  lest  violence  be  done  to  the 
raw  skin  beneath,  and,  for  the  same 
reason,  pieces  of  the  clothing  that 
stick  to  the  surface  should  not  be 
removed  at  the  time.  If  the  burn 
or  scald  be  extensive,  some  stimu- 
lant wine  and  water  should  be  given 
at  once  to  diminish  the  effect  of 
"shock." 

Treatment. — The  principle  to  be 
observed  in  the  treatment  of  burns 
and  scalds,  is  to  cause  a  gradual 
diminution  of  heat  in  the  part,  not 
to  allow  it  to  cool  too  quickly.  This 
is  effected  by  protecting  the  burnt  or 
scalded  part  from  the  air,  by  imme- 
diately dredging  with  flour,  or  cover- 
ing with  cotton-wool  or  oil.  If  the 
case  is  a  slight  one,  these  dressings 
may  be  left  on  for  a  day  or  two  ;  but 
if  it  be  more  severe  the  damaged 
parts  should  be  dressed  with  lint, 
spread  with  basilicon  or  resin  oint- 
ment, or  a  mixture  of  equal  parts 
of  that  ointment  and  spirits  of 
turpentine. 

Another  useful   lotion  for  appli- 
cation to  burns  and  scalds  of  slight 
extent  consists  of  "  carron  oil,"  or — 
Lime-water,  1  part, 
Linseed-oil,  2  parts, 
well  shaken  together,  and  applied 
by  means  of  strips  of  lint,  or  soft 
linen  rag  soaked  in  it,  and  changed 
twice  a  day. 

The  Blisters:  Jiow  to  be  treated. — 
It  is  generally  advisable  not  to  cut 
the  blisters  which  may  be  formed, 
as  they  protect  the  true  skin  under 
them  ;  but  if  the  base  of  the  blister 
shows  symptoms  of  inflammation, 
it  is  as  Avell  to  evacuate  the  con- 
tents, but  even  then  to  do  it  by 
means  of  a  small  prick,  and  to  leave 


460 


Accidents ;  jDiseases,  and  Symptoms. 


the  skin  on,  so  that  it  may  protect 
the  raw  surface  from  the  air. 

The  black  char  of  skin  that  is 
sometimes  left  should  be  poulticed 
with  bread,  or  linseed  meal  and 
bread,  till  the  slough  separates. 
When  this  has  taken  place,  there 
is  left  a  surface  of  what  appear  to 
be  little  mounds  of  flesh,  and  these 
give  out  a  discharge  of  matter. 
They  are  called  granulations,  and 
are  the  commencements  of  the  pro- 
cess of  healing,  At  times  these 
granulations  grow  very  rapidly  and 
abundantly,  rising  above  the  level 
of  the  adjacent  skin.  This  is  what  is 
commonly  meant  by  "  proud  flesh." 
Their  growth  may  be  checked  by 
gently  touching  them  with  a  stick 
of  nitrate  of  silver,  and  dressing 
the  surface  with  oxide  of  zinc 
ointment. 

Burns  between  the  fingers,  or  in 
any  place  where  two  contiguous 
surfaces  are  likely  to  come  in  con- 
tact, should  be  separately  dressed, 
and  great  care  should  be  taken  to 
keep  the  granulating  surfaces  apart, 
or  they  may  grow  together  and 
produce  deformity. 

Treatment  of  the  cicatrices. — Scars 
are  often  left  after  extensive  burns. 
These  scars  contract,  and  have  been 
known  to  produce  great  deformities, 
such  as  the  head  being  pulled  down 
on  the  shoulder,  the  arm  bent  at  the 
elbow,  the  leg  contracted  at  the 
knee.  This  may  generally  be  reme- 
died by  keeping  up  gentle  move- 
ment, or  by  keeping  the  limbs  ex- 
tended until  the  process  is  complete. 

Opiates. — If  there  be  much  pain, 
it  will  be  advisable  to  give  opium, 
in  the  form  of  the  tincture,  as  it  will 
also  allay  nervous  excitement. 

Tincture  of  opium,  10  minims. 

Water,  1  teaspoonful. 
Every  four  hours. 

This  dose,  it  should  be  borne  in 
mind,  is  for  an  adult  person. 

Burns  from  Chemicals, — The  de- 


structive chemicals  most  likely  to 
produce  these  accidents  are — sul- 
phuric acid,  or  oil  of  vitriol ;  nitric 
acid,  or  aqua  fortis  ;  ammonia,  and 
hydrofluoric  acid ;  strong  carbolic 
acid,  and  chloride  of  zinc.  In  cases 
of  burns  from  any  of  these  the  parts 
should  be  well  washed  with  water, 
in  which  a  little  bicarbonate  of  soda 
is  dissolved,  or  soap  and  water  in 
the  case  of  the  acids.  Afterwards 
treat  as  in  a  case  of  inflammatory 
ulcer  or  ordinary  burn. 

Gunpowder  Burns. — Explosions 
of  gunpowder  cause  destruction  of 
skin,  and  resemble  burns  or  scalds 
in  their  effects.  They  should  be 
treated  in  the  same  manner  as  burns, 
first  removing  particles  of  carbon 
by  means  of  a  soft  sponge  and 
warm  water. 

The  diet  in  severe  burns  should 
be  supporting.  Some  stimulant  is 
usually  advisable. 

Chapped  Hands.  After  wash- 
ing the  hands,  and  before  drying 
them,  pour  over  the  backs  of  them 
some  glycerine  and  water  (equal  pro- 
portions), smear  it  over  them,  and 
then  quickly  dip  into  water  and  dry 
the  hands  gently,  so  as  not  entirely 
to  wipe  off  the  glycerine. 

Chilblains.  The  best  remedy 
for  these,  when  not  broken,  is  to 
paint  them  twice  a  day  with  strong 
tincture  of  iodine. 

A  liniment  of  equal  parts  of  ex- 
tract of  lead  and  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine is  also  very  useful . 

If  inflamed  and  broken,  they 
should  be  poulticed  and  dressed 
with  some  simple  ointment. 

Cold.  Remedy  for. — A  useful 
means  of  cure  in  catarrhal  bron- 
chitis or  severe  "  cold,"  is  the  in- 
halation of  ammonia  ;  thus,  put  a 
teaspoonful  of  spirits  of  salvolatile  in 
a  three-pint  jug,  with  a  wide  mouth, 
then  fill  the  jug  half  full  with  boil- 
ing water,  and  holding  the  face  over 
the  mouth  of  the  jug,  inhale  the 


Accidents,  Diseases,  and  Symptoms. 


461 


steam  as  long  as  it  continues  to  be 
given  off. 

Child-crowing-.  Spasms  of  the 
Glottis.  Symptoms. — This  is  a  con- 
vulsion or  spasmodic  affection  of  the 
upper  part  of  the  windpipe,  causing 
sudden  difficulty  of  breathing,  and 
accompanied  with  a  shrill  crowing 
noise  resembling  that  of  a  young 
bantam  cock.  The  paroxysm  comes 
on  almost  instantaneously,  very  often 
after  a  fit  of  crying  ;  or  the  child 
will  start  up  out  of  its  sleep  and  be 
seized  with  the  crowing  noise.  It 
has  been  known  to  be  suddenly  fatal 
without  the  slightest  warning.  This 
affection  occurs  in  weakly  children, 
and  in  apparantly  fine  healthy  chil- 
dren of  a  strumous  constitution. 
The  paroxysm  may  be  excited  by 
any  circumstances  that  depress  the 
constitutional  powers  or  derange  the 
digestive  organs.  Thus  teething,  or 
injudicious  feeding,  may  excite  one. 

Child-crowing  is  veiy  often  con- 
founded with  croup,  but  it  is  a  dis- 
tinct affection,  more  alarming  in  its 
character,  and  requires  distinctive 
treatment.  Croup  is  a  catarrhal 
affection  in  the  first  instance,  and  is 
frequently  preceded  by  the  symp- 
toms of  a  cold  on  the  chest.  The 
paroxysm  of  croup,  although  it 
may  be  sometimes  of  a  spasmodic 
character,  does  not  as  suddenly  pass 
off  as  does  child-crowing,  but  leaves 
a  rough,  difficult  kind  of  breathing 
and  hoarse,  croupy  cough  after  it. 
The  croupy  sound  is  rather  of  a 
rough  sawing  character,  and  accom- 
panies both  inspiration  and  expira- 
ration.  Child-crowing  occurs  only 
in  inspiration. 

Treatment. — Whatever  treatment 
is  to  be  adopted  must  be  put  in 
force  in  the  intervals  of  the  attacks, 
as  there  is  no  time  then  to  do  any- 
thing more  than  to  sprinkle  cold 
water  on  the  face. 

If  the  paroxysms  recur  at  short 
intervals,  four  or  five  drops  of  chloric 


ether  should  be  given  every  two  or 
three  hours.  If  there  be  any  known 
disordered  function,  it  should  be 
corrected  if  possible.  Thus,  if  the 
bc*.vels  be  costive,  some  mild  aperi- 
ent should  be  administered.  If  the 
gums  are  full  and  swollen  from  teeth- 
ing they  should  be  lanced.  The 
condition  of  the  general  health  is, 
however,  by  far  the  most  important 
indication  to  be  followed,  and  herein 
is  the  reason  why  it  is  specially 
necessary  to  be  clear  in  distinguish- 
ing the  disease  from  croup,  because 
the  treatment  of  the  two  is  opposite. 

In  child-crowing,  the  child  should 
be  out  of  doors  as  much  as  the 
weather  will  permit,  and  the  higher 
and  drier  the  situation  the  better. 
The  most  nourishing  diet,  consistent 
with  a  care  not  to  overload  the 
stomach,  should  be  allowed. 

The  following  should  be  given  : — 
Take  of 

Syrup  of  bromide  of  iron,  \  oz. 

Simple  syrup,  1^  oz. 
Mix.    Give  a  teaspoonful  three  times 
a  day  to  a  child  over  two  years  of 
age.  and   half  the  quantity  to  one 
under  that  age. 

Concussion  of  the  Brain, 
Symptoms. — This  condition  may  be 
the  result  of  either  a  fall,  or  blow  on 
the  head,  or  it  may  be  occasioned 
by  a  violent  jerk  to  the  bod}-, 
especially  to  the  lower  part  of  the 
spine.  After  one  or  other  of  these 
accidents,  the  symptoms  of  con- 
cussion will  be  : — Unconsciousness, 
and  loss  of  power  of  moving,  a 
small  and  feeble  pulse,  the  pupil  of 
the  eye  insensible  to  light,  the  com- 
plexion pallid,  skin  cold,  and  there 
may  be  vomiting.  Convulsions, 
also,  are  likely  to  occur  if  a  child  is 
the  subject  of  concussion. 

Treatme?it. — Small  quantities  of 
stimulants,  such  as  wine,  brandy, 
ether,  or  salvolatile  in  water,  should 
be  given  every  half  hour,  if  the 
patient  can  swallow,  until  signs  of 


462 


Accidents,  Diseases,  and  Symptoms. 


reaction  begin  to  show  themselves. 
This  will  be  known  by  the  restora- 
tion of  warmth  and  colour  to  the 
surface  of  the  body,  together  with 
increased  force  in  the  pulse,  and 
gradually  reviving  consciousness. 

From  this  point,  health  may  be 
re-established,  or  inflammation,  or 
some  other  affection  of  the  brain, 
may  follow.  Hence  the  importance 
of  cautious  and  judicious  administra- 
tion of  stimulants  during  the  stage  of 
depression  which  follows  the  shock. 

Convulsions,  or  Fits,  are, 
strictly  speaking,  symptoms,  not  a 
disease ;  thus  they  are  seen  in  the  low 
weak  state  of  the  termination  of  dis- 
ease of  various  kinds  ;  they  are  seen 
in  hysterical  excitement,  and  are 
caused  generally  by  the  disturbance 
of  dentition. 

Treatment. — At  the  time  of  the 
convulsions  but  little  can  really  be 
done — cold  water  maybe  dashed  on 
the  face,  and  mustard  plasters  ap- 
plied to  the  soles  of  the  feet  and 
calves  of  the  legs. 

In  the  fits  of  children — the  child's 
body  being  immersed  in  a  hot  bath 
— cold  water  should  be  poured  on 
the  head  from  a  jug  held  at  a  good 
height.  The  hot  bath,  however, 
cannot  be  repeated  if  the  fits  recur 
with  frequency  ;  the  cold  water  can 
always  with  safety  be  poured  on 
the  head. 

Hysterical  convulsions,  or  fits,  also 
require  the  free  application  of  the 
cold  douche  on  the. face  and  head. 

The  curative  treatment  of  convul- 
sions can  only  be  attempted  during 
their  intervals,  according  to  their 
several  causes. 

Corns.  Repeated  soaking  of 
the  feet  in  hot  water  and  paring 
down  the  corn  with  a  sharp  knife, 
.then  applying  nitrate  of  silver,  and 
I  afterwards  paring  off  the  hardened 
j  black  skin.  Corn-plasters,  having  a 
thole  in  the  centre,  give  great  relief 
'  also  in  wearing. 


Soft-corns  are  relieved  by  soaking 
in  warm  water,  and  the  subsequent 
application  of  nitrate  of  silver.  A 
thick  plaster,  to  take  off  unequal 
pressure,  is  extremely  serviceable. 

Croup.  This  is  a  disease  which 
is  alarming  from  the  suddenness  of 
its  attack  and  the  rapidity  with 
which  it  runs  its  fatal  course  if  un- 
checked ;  but,  on  the  other  hand, 
in  the  majority  of  cases,  it  is  easily 
checked  if  the  treatment  begins 
immediately  it  occurs. 

Symptoms.  —  The  following  is 
generally  the  course  of  the  dis- 
ease : — A  child  is  put  to  bed  in  its 
ordinary  health,  apparently,  or  it 
may  have  a  slight  cold,  and  a  cough 
a  trifle  rough,  but  not  enough  to 
excite  attention  to  it.  After  a  vari- 
able time  the  child  wakes  up  with  a 
hoarse,  ringing,  rasping  cough  and 
difficulty  in  breathing,  and  counten- 
ance expressive  of  its  trouble  ;  each 
inspiration  and  expiration  being  at- 
tended with  a  rough  metallic  tubular 
sound,  and  the  voice  masked  or  ob- 
literated by  a  harsh,  hoarse  croaking 
vocalization.  The  cough  is  dry, 
harassing,  and  unattended  with  ex- 
pectoration in  the  outset,  but  after  a 
while  some  portions  of  membrane- 
like mucus  may  be  coughed  up.  The 
pulse  becomes  rapid,  the  skin  hot, 
the  countenance  more  and  more  dis- 
tressed, and  if  relief  be  not  afforded, 
the  patient  becomes  drowsy,  the 
complexion  becomes  blue,  and  the 
little  patient  may  die  from  suffo- 
cation within  forty-eight  hours. 
Happily,  however,  this  is  not  the 
most  common  course  of  the  disease, 
if  the  treatinent  be  prompt  and 
active. 

The  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to 
give  a  teaspoonful  of  ipecacuanha 
wine  every  ten  minutes  until  vomit- 
ing occurs.  Ipecacuanha  wine  is 
preferable  to  antimonial  wine,  as  the 
latter  is  too  depressing. 

[N.13, — Where  children  are  sub- 


Accidents,  Diseases,  aud  Symptoms. 


463 


ject  to  croup,  ipecacuanha  wine 
should  always  be  at  hand.] 

Meanwhile,  a  hot  bath  should  be 
prepared,  and  used  as  quickly  as 
possible  ;  and  while  in  the  hot  bath 
a  wet  sponge,  sprinkled  with  mus- 
tard, should  be  held  on  the  upper 
part  of  the  chest  and  front  of  the 
neck. 

After  the  vomiting  has  subsided, 
small  doses  of  the  ipecacuanha  wine 
(from  five  to  fifteen  drops,  according 
to  the  age  of  the  child)  should  be 
continued  every  three  hours,  until 
the  hoarseness  in  the  breathing  and 
voice  ceases  and  the  cough  becomes 
loose. 

The  atmosphere  of  the  bedroom 
should  be  kept  warm  and  moist  by 
steam  from  a  pipe  or  spout  of  a 
kettle.  The  temperature  should  not 
be  allowed  to  fall  below  6o°,  if 
possible. 

The  diet  light  and  simple. 

If,  however,  within  twelve  hours 
there  be  not  a  decided  improvement, 
small  doses  of  calomel  should  be 
given  also,  and  the  front  of  the  neck 
should  be  painted  with  blistering 
liquid. 

As  a  last  resource,  supposing  these 
remedies  are  not  at  hand  or  obtain- 
able, and  the  disease  be  making 
rapid  strides,  life  may  be  saved  by 
applying  scalding  water  to  the  neck, 
holding  it  there  on  a  sponge  or 
flannel  for  a  minute  at  least.  This 
is  a  most  extreme  and  violent  means, 
but  it  is  one  by  which  the  writer  has 
seen  a  life  saved. 

Diarrhoea.  There  is  a  com- 
mon form  of  this  disorder,  which 
appears  very  often  in  hot  weather 
without  any  other  indication,  and 
which  if  neglected  will  lead  to  fully- 
developed  cholera,  if  that  disease  or 
its  causes  be  at  the  time  prevalent  ; 
while,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  easily 
arrested  if  taken  in  time. 

Treatment.  —  For  an  ordinary 
attack   of  diarrhoea  —  not   arising 


from  any  known  cause,  such  as 
irregularity  of  diet — a  dose  of  the 
common  chalk  mixture  (one  ounce) 
with  a  drachm  of  tincture  of  catechu, 
repeated  every  three  or  four  hours, 
will  generally  prove  sufficient.  If 
otherwise,  three  or  four  drops  of 
creasote  mixed  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  spirits  of  salvolatile  in  a  wineglass 
of  water,  will  check  it. 

If  the  diarrhoea  be  profuse,  and 
attended  with  much  pain,  a  single 
dose  of  one  grain  of  opium  (taken 
as  a  pill)  will  often  be  sufficient  for 
the  purpose  of  relieving  pain  and 
arresting  the  complaint.  This  dose 
is  for  an  adult  only. 

Diarrhoea  occurring  in  infants  and 
young  children  is  best  controlled  by 
one  or  two  teaspoonsfuls  of  chalk 
mixture,  given  after  each  loose 
purge. 

If  it  prove  obstinate,  the  following 
will  most  probably  be  efficacious : — 

Take  a  few  chips  of  logwood,  and 
boil  for  half  an  hour  in  half  a  pint 
of  water.  Mix  two  ounces  of  this 
decoction  with  half  a  drachm  of 
powdered  alum,  and  enough  pow- 
dered sugar  to  sweeten  it,  and  give 
a  teaspoonful  after  each  action  of 
the  bowels. 

Dog"  Bites.  These  are  very 
much,  though  somewhat  unneces- 
sarily, dreaded,  on  account  of  the 
fear  which  exists  that  they  may  be 
followed  by  hydrophobia.  When  it 
is  considered  how  many  people  are 
bitten  by  dogs,  and  how  few  people 
have  hydrophobia,  it  will  be  seen  of 
what  groundless  nature  is  that  fear. ' 

The  best  method  of  treatment 
which  can  be  pursued  in  dog  bites 
is  to  make  a  free  application  of  lunar 
caustic  to  the  bite.  Sometimes  (if 
the  dog  be  known  to  be  undoubtedly 
rabid)  it  might  be  recommended 
that  the  part  bitten  should  be  re- 
moved by  incision,  but  as  for  this  it 
will  be  advisable  to  have  the  help  of 
a  surgeon,  it  is  better  in  his  absence 


464 


Accidents^  Diseases,  a?id  Symptoms. 


to  apply  a  stick  of  nitrate  of  silver 
freely. 

Drowning*,  or  Suspended 
Animation.  The  following  in- 
structions, compiled  by  the  Royal 
National  Lifeboat  Institution,  are 
the  result  of  a  wide  field  of  expe- 
rience : — 

Restorative  Treatment.  —  Send 
immediately  for  medical  assistance, 
blankets,  and  dry  clothing,  but  pro- 
ceed to  treat  the  patient  instantly, 
on  the  spot,  in  the  open  air,  with 
the  face  downwards,  whether  on 
shore  or  afloat  ;  exposing  the  face, 
neck,  and  chest  to  the  wind,  except 
in  severe  weather,  and  removing  all 
tight  clothing  from  the  neck  and 
chest,  especially  the  braces.  The 
points  to  be  aimed  at  are — first, 
and  immediately,  the  restoration  of  I 
breathing  ;  and  secondly,  after 
breathing  is  restored,  the  promotion 
of  warmth  and  circulation.  The 
efforts  to  restore  breathing  must  be 
commenced  immediately  and  ener- 
getically, and  persevered  in  for  one 
or  two  hours,  or  until  a  medical 
man  has  pronounced  that  life  is  ex- 
tinct. Efforts  to  promote  warmth 
and  circulation,  beyond  removing 
the  wet  clothes  and  drying  the  skin, 
must  not  be  made  until  the  first  ap- 
pearance of  natural  breathing.  For 
if  the  circulation  of  the  blood  be 
induced  before  breathing  has  re- 
commenced, the  restoration  to  life 
will  be  endangered. 

To  Restore 'Breathing. — Place  the 
patient  on  the  floor  or  ground,  with 
the  face  downwards,  and  one  of  the 
arms  under  the  forehead,  in  which 
position  all  fluids  will  more  readily 
escape  by  the  mouth,  and  the  tongue 
itself  will  fall  forward,  leaving  the 
entrance  into  the  windpipe  free. 
Assist  this  operation  by  wiping  and 
cleansing  the  mouth. 

If  satisfactory  breathing  commen- 
ces, use  the  treatment  prescribed 
below  to  promote  warmth.     If  there 


be  only  slight  breathing  or  no 
breathing,  or  if  the  breathing  fail, 
then,  to  excite  breathing,  turn  the 
patient  well  and  instantly  on  the 
side,  supporting  the  head  ;  and  ex- 
cite the  nostrils  with  snuff,  harts- 
horn, and  smelling-salts,  or  tickle 
the  throat  with  a  feather,  if  they  are 
at  hand.  Rub  the  chest  and  face 
warm,  and  dash  cold  water,  or  cold 
and  hot  water  alternately,  on  them. 
If  there  be  no  success,  lose  not  a 


moment,  but  instantly — to  imitate 
breathing— replace  the  patient  on 
the  face,  raising  and  supporting  the 
chest  well  on  a  folded  coat  or  other 
article  of  dress.  Turn  the  body 
very  gently  on  the  side  and  a  little 
beyond,  and  then  briskly  on  the 
face,  back  again  ;  repeating  these 
measures  cautiously,  efficiently,  and 
perseveringly,  about  fifteen  times  in 
a  minute,  or  once  every  four  or  five 
seconds,  occasionally  varying  the 
side.  On  each  occasion  that  the 
body  is  replaced  on  the  face,  make 
uniform,  but  efficient  pressure,  with 
brisk  movement  on  the  back  between 
and  below  the   shoulder-blades  or 


bones  on  each  side,  removing  the 
pressure  immediately  before  turning 


Accidents,  Diseases,  and  Symptoms. 


465 


the  body  on  the  side.  During  the 
whole  operation,  let  one  person 
attend  solely  to  the  movements  of 
the  head  and  of  the  arm  placed 
under  it.  Whilst  the  above  opera- 
tions are  being  proceeded  with,  dry 
the  hands  and  feet,  and  as  soon  as 
dry  clothing  or  blankets  can  be 
procured,  strip  the  body,  and  cover, 
or  gradually  reclothe  it,  but  taking 
care  not  to  interfere  with  the  efforts 
to  restore  breathing. 

Should  these  efforts  not  prove 
successful  in  the  course  of  from  two 
to  five  minutes,  proceed  to  imitate 
breathing  by  Dr.  Silvester's  me- 
thod, recommended  by  the  Royal 
Humane  Society,  as  follows  : — 
Place  the  patient  on  the  back 
on  a  flat  surface,  inclined  a  little 
upwards  from  the  feet ;  raise  and 
support  the  head  and  shoulders 
on  a  small  firm  cushion  or  folded 
article  of  dress  placed  under  the 
shoulder-blades.  Draw  forward 
the  patient's  tongue,  and  keep  it 
projecting  beyond  the  lips — an 
elastic  band  over  the  tongue  and 
under  the  chin  will  answer  this 
purpose,  or  a  piece  of  string  or 
tape  may  be  tied  round  them,  or 
by  raising  the  lower  jaw  the  teeth 
may  be  made  to  retain  the  tongue 
in  that  position.  Remove  all 
tight  clothing  from  above  the 
neck  and  chest,  especially  the 
braces.  To  imitate  the  move- 
ment of  breathing  : — Standing  at 
the  patient's  head,  grasp  the  arms 
just  above  the  elbows,  and  draw  the 
arms  gently  and  steadily  upwards 
above  the  head,  and  keep  them 
stretched  upwards  for  two  seconds. 
(By  this  means  air  is  drawn  into 
the  lungs.)  Then  turn  down  the 
patient's  arms  and  press  them  gently 
and  firmly  for  two  seconds  against 
the  sides  of  the  chest.  (By  this 
means  air  is  pressed  out  of  the 
lungs.)  Repeat  these  measures  alter- 
nately,  deliberately,  and  persever- 


ingly,  about  fifteen  times  in  a 
minute  until  a  spontaneous  effort  to 
respire  is  perceived,  immediately 
upon  which  cease  to  imitate  the 
movements  of  breathing,  and  pro- 
ceed to  induce  circulation  and 
warmth. 

Treatment  after  natural  Breath- 
ing  has  been  restored. — Commence 
rubbing  the  limbs  upwards,  with 
firm,  grasping  pressure  and  energy, 
using  handkerchiefs,  flannels,  &c. 
(By  this  measure  the  blood  is  pro- 
pelled along  the  veins  towards  the 
heart.)     The  friction  must  be  con- 


tinued under  the  blanket  or  over 
the  dry  clothing.  Promote  the 
warmth  of  the  body  by  the  appli- 
cation of  hot  flannels,  bottles,  or 
bladders  of  hot  water,  heated  bricks, 
&c,  to  the  pit  of  the  stomach,  the 
armpits,  between  the  thighs,  and  to 
the  soles  of  the  feet.  If  the  patient 
has  been  carried  to  a  house  after 
respiration  has  been  restored,  be 
careful  to  let  the  air  play  freely- 
about  the  room.     On  the  restoration 


H    H 


466 


Accidents y  Diseases,  and  Symptoms. 


of  life,  a  teaspoonful  of  warm  water 
should  be  given  ;  and  then,  if  the 
power  of  swallowing  have  returned, 
small  quantities  of  wine,  warm 
brandy  and  water,  or  coffee,  should 
be  administered.  The  patient  should 
be  kept  in  bed,  and  a  disposition  to 
sleep  encouraged. 

Appearances  which  generally 
accompany  Death. — Breathing  and 
heart's  action  cease  entirely ;  the 
eyelids  are  generally  half  closed,  the 
pupils  dilated,  the  jaws  clenched, 
the  fingers  semi-contracted,  the 
tongue  approaches  to  the  under 
edges  of  the  lips,  and  these,  as  well 
as  the  nostrils,  are  covered  with  a 
frothy  mucus.  Coldness  and  pallor 
of  surface  increases. 

Cautions.  —  Prevent  unnecessary 
crowding  of  persons  round  the  body, 
especially  if  in  an  apartment.  Avoid 
rough  usage,  and  do  not  allow  the 
body  to  remain  on  the  back,  unless 
the  tongue  is  secured.  Under  no 
circumstances  hold  the  body  up  by 
the  feet.  On  no  account  place  the 
body  in  a  warm  bath  unless  under 
medical  direction,  and  even  then 
it  should  only  be  employed  as  a 
Sfiomentary  excitant. 

Ear-ache.  Symptoms. — Deaf- 
ness, Pain  and  Noises  in  the  Ear, 
are  often  produced  by  the  mere 
accumulation  of  wax  in  the  ear. 

Treatment. — It  will  generally  suf- 
fice to  clear  out  the  passage  by 
syringing.  A  large  syringe  and 
plenty  of  water  should  be  used.  If 
not  relieved  in  this  way,  the  applica- 
tion of  repeated  mustard  plasters 
behind  the  ears  will  have  a  good 
effect. 

Fainting:.  Swooning  occurs 
generally  from  sudden  shock,  or 
from  large  or  sudden  loss  of  blood, 
or  any  other  cause  of  depression, 
mental  or  bodily,  such  as  profuse 
diarrhoea  and  affections  of  the 
heart. 

Treatment. — The  patient  should 


be  laid  flat  on  a  couch  or  on  the 
ground,  with  the  head  as  low  as 
possible;  the  face  should  be  sprinkled 
or  dashed  with  cold  water,  free  ac- 
cess of  fresh  air  being  secured.  If 
able  to  swallow,  let  some  stimulants 
be  given,  such  as  a  small  quantity  of 
wine,  brandy,  or  spirits  of  salvolatile, 
and  apply  strong  smelling  salts  to 
the  nostrils. 

Headache.  There  are  few 
more  distressing  complaints  than  a 
severe  headache,  few  more  puzzling 
to  account  for  in  point  of  sudden- 
ness and  intensity,  and  in  the 
rapidity  of  their  disappearance.  A 
"  nervous "  headache,  for  instance, 
comes  suddenly  upon  one,  and  dis- 
ables us  from  our  duties,  and  may 
perhaps  be  dispelled,  as  it  were 
magically,  by  a  cup  of  tea,  or  a 
spoonful  of  spirits  of  salvolatile. 

This,  however,  is  rarely  the  extent 
of  headache.  It  is  not  a  disease  of 
itself  essentially,  but  is  the  indica- 
tion of  some  morbid  condition,  it 
may  be  only  temporary,  of  the  brain 
or  of  its  coverings.  As  such,  it  is 
often  a  persistent  symptom,  and  the 
source  of  inexpressible  suffering, 
more  especially  if  it  be  the  result  of 
some  structural  disease  within  the 
brain  or  skull. 

There  are,  therefore,  various  kinds 
of  headache — the  nervous,  conges- 
tive, neuralgic,  rheumatic,  bilious, 
&c. 

The  nervous  headache,  arising 
from  various  causes  of  debility,  may, 
as  already  mentioned,  be  very  short- 
lived, and  yields  readily  to  stimulants 
and  antispasmodics. 

Congestive  headache  is  of  a 
character  distinct  from  the  pre- 
ceding, as  it  does  not  generally 
come  on  so  suddenly,  is  not  ame- 
nable to  the  same  treatment,  but 
requires  the  reverse — viz.,  purgatives 
and  low  diet.  This  form  proceeds 
from  constipation,  from  over-use 
and  exertion  of  the  brain, 


Accidents,  Diseases,  and  Symptoms. 


467 


Bilious  headache,  or  sick  headache, 
differs  very  little  either  in  origin  or 
treatment  from  the  preceding,  and 
requires  similar  treatment. 

Neuralgic  headache  is  sometimes 
also  much  relieved  by  the  external 
application  of  sedatives.  The  Bella- 
donna liniment  of  the  British  Phar- 
macopoeia applied  freely  over  the 
surface  of  the  forehead,  or  on  the 
back  of  the  neck,  frequently  gives 
great  relief.  Care  must  be  taken 
that  the  skin  is  entire.  It  would 
not  do,  for  instance,  to  apply  any 
sedative  or  narcotic  if  the  skin  be 
tender  from  a  blister,  or  leech- 
bites. 

Indigestion  (Dyspepsia). 
Symptoms. — Various  kinds  of  pain 
in  the  region  of  the  stomach,  which 
occur  soon  after  meals.  These 
pains  are  also  sometimes  felt  be- 
tween the  shoulders  and  in  the  back, 
flatulency  causing  some  distension 
of  the  bowels  ;  pain  that  is  called 
"  heartburn,"  nausea,  and  sometimes 
vomiting,  headache,  disturbed  sleep, 
palpitation  of  the  heart,  and  other 
sympathetic  inconveniences,  also 
occur. 

Among  the  chief  causes  of  this 
disorder  of  the  stomach  is  the  abuse 
of  stimulating  liquors,  or  of  narcotics 
such  as  tobacco  and  opium,  the  use 
of  too  highly  seasoned  or  rich  food, 
sedentary  habits,  and  want  of  proper 
exercise.  Mere  weakness  of  the 
system,  in  which  the  stomach  will 
partake,  is  often  a  cause  of  indiges- 
tion. 

Treatment. — The  main  object  in 
the  treatment  of  indigestion  is  to 
find  out  what  is  the  cause  of  the 
disorder.  This  being  done,  care 
should  be  taken  to  avoid  those 
causes,  as  above-named.  Urgent 
symptoms,  such  as  acrid  eructa- 
tions, heartburn,  flatulency,  and 
pain,  may  be  relieved  by  bicarbo- 
note  of  soda,  or  potash,  or  by  j 
carbonate  of  magnesia,  e.g. : — 

H  H 


Bica  rbonate  of  soda,  120  grs. 

Tincture  of  rhubarb,  3  drms. 

Peppermint  water,  3  oz. 

Infusion  of  gentian,  to  make  6  oz. 
Mix.  One  tablespoonful  after  every 
meal,  or  two  tablespoonfuls  morn- 
ing and  evening,  will  probably  prove 
curative. 

The  diet  should  consist  of  light 
and  easily -digested  substances. 
Care  should  be  taken  to  avoid 
those  articles  which  experience  has 
shown  the  sufferer  to  be  excitants 
of  indigestion. 

Splinters,  Thorns,  &c. 
These  should  be  removed  if  possible 
by  the  use  of  forceps.  If  they  are 
left  in  they  may  cause  inflammation, 
and  the  formation  of  abscesses,  or 
gatherings. 

If  the  foreign  body  cannot  be 
extracted,  a  linseed-meal  or  bread- 
poultice  should  be  applied.  Matter 
will  probably  form,  and  may  require 
to  be  let  out  by  a  puncture,  in  which 
case  most  probably  the  thorn  or 
splinter  will  be  evacuated  at  the 
same  time.  The  inflammation  will 
begin  to  subside  as  soon  as  this  has 
occurred. 

Stings  of  Insects,  <§tc. 
Symptoms. — The  stings  of  wasps 
or  ants  or  bees,  as  indeed  do  most 
of  the  bites  of  insects,  present  very 
much  the  appearance  of  what  are 
called  poisoned  wounds.  The  his- 
tory of  the  case  will  generally  be 
that  the  patient  has  suddenly  felt  a 
very  sharp  pain  in  the  part  affected, 
though,  perhaps,  he  has  not  noticed 
any  unusual  appearance  about  it. 
Within  a  short,  but  variable,  period, 
there  is  a  feeling  of  irritation  about 
the  spot,  which  rapidly  becomes  red 
and  swollen,  and  sometimes  is 
acutely  painful.  On  close  examina- 
tion, it  will  be  found  that  there  is  a 
small  speck  about  the  centre  of  the 
inflamed  part,  and  in  this  the  sting 
of  the  insect  is  sometimes  found. 
The  severity  of  the  symptoms  will 


4.68 


Accidents,  Diseases,  and  Symptoms. 


of  course  vary,  according  to  the 
state  of  health,  or  the  constitution 
of  the  patient.  The  inflammation 
may  be  confined  to  a  small  circum- 
scribed spot,  or  it  may  spread  over 
a  whole  limb,  and  be  attended  with 
signs  of  prostration. 

Treatment.  —  If  the  sting  have 
been  left  in,  as  it  usually  is  by 
wasps,  it  should  be  carefully  ex- 
tracted, if  it  can  be  got  hold  of,  by 
forceps  or  tweezers.  If  there  be 
simply  a  small  red  irritable  spot,  it 
will  be  sufficient  to  dress  it  with  a 
cold  evaporating  lotion,  such  as  the 
following  : — 

Vinegar,  I  oz. 

Spirits  of  wine,  i  oz. 

Water,  4  oz.     Mix. 

This  should  be  kept  constantly 
applied,  by  means  of  a  piece  of  lint 
or  soft  linen  rag. 

Spirits  of  salvolatile  is  also  very 
useful  for  local  application  in  slight 
cases  of  stings. 

Should  however  the  inflammation 
spread  much,  poultices  of  linseed- 
meal  should  be  applied. 

Should  the  wound  have  been 
inflicted  by  a  snake  or  other  veno- 
mous insect,  and  the  system  be  at 
all  affected,  if  the  patient  seem  faint 
or  prostrated,  stimulants  should  be 
given  freely,  thus  : — 

Spirits  of  salvolatile,  1  drm. 

Water,  to  1  oz. , 
Every  hour,   or  brandy  and  water, 
if  the  ammonia  be  not  at  hand. 

If  the  bite  proceed  from  some 
animal,  whose  bite  is  known  to  be 
of  a  dangerous  nature,  nitrate  of 
silver  should  be  freely  applied  to 
the  wound  as  quickly  as  possible. 

If  the  wound  be  on  a  limb,  it 
will  be  as  well  to  tie  a  handkerchief 
or  other  ligature  tightly  round  it 
above  the  part  bitten. 

The  venomous  effects  of  certain 
snake  bites,  as  that  of  the  cobra 
di  capello,  are  so  rapid  in  their 
development,  that  unless  speedy  or 


immediate  aid  be  rendered,  the 
victim  will  stand  but  little  chance 
of  recovery. 

The  bite  of  the  adder  is  occa- 
sionally followed  by  very  serious 
symptoms.  The  bite,  or  rather  the 
stings,  of  certain  scorpions,  are 
often  of  a  severe  nature.  In  nearly 
all  cases  of  snake-bite,  the  symp- 
toms consist  in  a  fearful  state  of 
depression,  during  which,  unless 
the  strength  be  supported,  the 
patient  will  sink. 

In  India,  there  is  largely  used  for 
snake  bites  a  substance  called  Eau 
de  Litce,  which  is  a  solution  of 
ammonia  with  oil  of  amber.  This 
is  given  in  teaspoonful  doses  every 
five  minutes ;  and  instances  are  on 
record  in  which  life  has  often  been 
saved  by  it. 

If  the  wound  be  inflicted  on  one 
of  the  limbs,  a  ligature  should  be 
very  tightly  tied  round  it  above  the 
wound. 

The  object  of  the  treatment,  as 
above  stated,  is  to  support  the 
strength  of  the  patient  until  the 
poison  shall  have  passed  out  of  the 
system. 

Sunstroke.  Symptoms. -These 
resemble  the  symptoms  of  conges- 
tion of  the  brain,  and  come  on 
occasionally  with  great  suddenness 
after  exposure  to  the  direct  heat  of 
the  sun.  In  other  cases  the  symp- 
toms are  slower  in  their  approach, 
and  in  children  resemble  those  of 
affection  of  the  brain  from  teething. 

Ti  eatment.  —  Apply  cold  to  the 
head,  and  mustard-plasters  to  the 
soles  of  the  feet  and  calves  of  the 
legs,  giving  repeated  moderate  doses 
of  stimulants  internally  at  the  same 
time. 

Swallowing1  Foreign 
Bodies.  It  often  happens  that 
children  swallow  money,  or  other 
hard  substances,  such  as  pins,  etc. 

In  these  cases,  if  the  substance 
be  completely  swallowed,  it  should 


Accidents,  Diseases,  and  Symptoms. 


469 


be  left  to  take  its  course  through  the 
stomach  and  intestines.  The  custom 
of  giving  purgatives  in  such  cases  is 
altogether  contrary  to  physiological 
principles,  as  the  intestinal  move- 
ments will  more  safely  carry  them 
through  than  if  violently  urged  by 
physic. 

Vaccination  is  the  only  real 
protective  we  have  from  the  ravages 
of  small-pox.  This  is  proved  by  the 
following  facts,  among  many  others  : 
In  proportion  as  vaccination  impro- 
perly and  efficiently  performed,  so 
the  mortality  of  small-pox  is  reduced. 
Secondly,  by  the  freedom  from  in- 
fection which  is  enjoyed  by  properly 
re-vaccinated  persons  in  constant 
attendance  upon,  and  actual  contact 
with,  small-pox  patients.  There 
has  never  been  a  case  of  small-pox 
among  the  nurses  or  the  attendants 
at  the  Small-pox  Hospital,  High- 
gate,  within  a  period  of  considerably 
over  thirty  years.  This  is  simply 
because  they  are  all  properly  re- 
vaccinated  before  they  enter  upon 
their  duties. 

We  have  used  the  expression, 
" properly  vaccinated."  It  will  be 
as  well  to  explain  what  is  intended 
thereby. 

"  Properly  vaccinated  "  does  not 
only  mean  to  be  vaccinated  during 
infancy,  as  the  law  compels,  but  it 
also  implies  re-vaccination,  perfor- 
med at  the  period  of  puberty — that 
is,  on  or  about  fifteen  to  seventeen 
years  of  age. 

During,  a  late  severe  epidemic  of 
small-pox  in  England  (1 870-1 871),  it 
has  been  noticed  that  no  persons 
who  have  been  properly  vaccinated 
and  re-vaccinated  have  taken  the 
disease. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that 
diligent  and  careful  vaccination 
and  re-vaccination  would  in  time 
extirpate  small-pox. 

Mode  ofvacci7iating. — The  opera- 
tion of  vaccination  is   simple,  but 


so  highly  important  that  no  care 
bestowed  upon  its  performance  is 
thrown  away. 

The  following  instructions  will  be 
sufficient  if  carefully  followed  : — 

Select  an  arm  of  a  vaccinated 
infant  that  has  good  vesicles  on  the 
eighth  day,  i.e.,  the  day  week  on 
which  the  lymph  was  inserted.  Then 
with  a  perfectly  clean  lancet  make 
several  punctures  in  the  clear  part 
of  the  vesicles,  avoiding  the  red 
border  of  inflamed  skin,  so  as  not 
to  draw  blood.  A  clear  watery  fluid 
will  ooze  out  in  beads. 

Take  off  some  of  this  clear  fluid 
on  the  point  of  the  lancet,  and  then 
taking  the  arm  of  the  infant,  or 
person  to  be  vaccinated,  draw  the 
skin  tense  and  insert  the  point  of  the 
lancet  nearly  horizontally  into  the 
skin  to  an  extent  of  about  one-tenth 
of  an  inch  (-)  ;  then  give  the  lancet 
a  turn  round,  withdraw  it,  and  press 
it  down  upon  the  puncture.  Five 
such  punctures,  to  the  distance  of 
about  half  an  inch  apart,  should  be 
made  on  one  arm. 

The  following  figures  represent  the 
characters  of  the  vaccine  vesicle : — 


Supposing  that  an  arm  with  ma- 
ture vesicles  should  not  be  available, 
lymph  may  be  procured  from  any 
vaccine  station.  It  will  be  received 
in    that  case,  preserved    either  in 


47° 


Accidents,  Diseases,  and  Symptoms. 


tubes,  or  on  small  points  of  ivory. 
If  in  tubes,  the  point  at  each  end  of 
one  must  be  broken  off,  and  the 
contained  lymph  be  gently  breathed 
on  to  the  point  of  the  lancet  and 
inserted  as  above  directed.  If  the 
lymph  have  been  preserved  dry  on 
"points,"  one  of  these  should  be 
used  for  each  puncture.  Dip  the 
point  quickly  into  cold  water,  and 
shake  off  any  excess  of  water.  The 
object  is  just  sufficiently  to  moisten 
the  lymph,  that  it  will  be  easily 
scraped  off  on  to  the  point  of  the 
lancet,  and  inserted  as  before 
directed. 

Some  degree  of  inflammation  oc- 
casionally occurs  on  the  vaccinated 
arm.  This  will  generally  disappear 
quickly  under  the  application  of 
simple  water-dressing. 

A  slight  eruption  of  small  colour- 
less pimples  on  various  parts  of  the 
body  also  occasionally  follows  vacci- 
nation, and  disappears  in  the  course 
of  a  few  days. 

To  ensure  the  success  of  vaccina- 
tion, the  infant  to  be  vaccinated 
should  be  in  good  health,  and  free 
from  any  eruption  of  the  skin,  and 
the  child  from  whom  the  lymph  is 
taken  should  also  be  in  perfectly 
good  health. 

With  these  precautions,  there  is 
no  ground  for  the  fear  that  other 
diseases  than  cow-pox  will  be  trans- 
mitted by  the  operation.  Very  great 
exaggerations  and  misrepresenta- 
tions have  been  put  forth  on  this 
point  in  order  to  excite  prejudices 
against  vaccination. 

One  very  common  source  of  pre- 
judice exists  in  the  ordinary  falla- 
cious reasoning  which  puts  any  two 
near  things  together  in  relation,  as 
cause  and  effect.  For  instance,  a 
child  at  about  three  months  of  age 
having  been  vaccinated  has  (we'll 
say  for  argument's  sake)  a  skin 
disease  break  out  a  few  weeks  after 
—therefore,  says  the   opponent   of 


vaccination,  "this  irruption  is  the 
consequence  of  the  vaccination." 

We  put  another  case.  A  child 
that  has  not  been  vaccinated  arrives 
at  the  period  of  teething,  and  suffers 
from  some  skin  disease.  This  is 
a  very  common  thing ;  but  clearly 
it  could  not  have  been  caused  by 
vaccination. 

The  explanation  of  the  fallacy  is 
this.  Teething  often  excites  a  febrile 
disturbance.  A  febrile  disturbance 
may  excite  into  activity  any  latent 
constitutional  tendency  to  skin,  or 
other  disease  ;  vaccination  usually 
closely  precedes  teething — and  so 
the  disturbance  due  to  teething  is 
charged  upon  the  vaccination. 

Re-vaccination.  —  The  primary 
vaccination  of  infancy,  if  well  and 
thoroughly  performed,  as  shown  by 
the  existence  of  several  well  marked 
cicatrices,  affords  protection  for  life 
from  severe  small-pox — protection 
however,  not  so  complete  but  that 
modified  small-pox  shall  not  occur. 
It  is  shown  by  a  vast  accumulation 
of  statistics  that  there  is  a  greater 
tendency  in  vaccinated  persons  to 
take  small-pox  between  the  ages  of 
fifteen  and  twenty-five  than  at  all 
other  ages  put  together.  It  is  there- 
fore advisable,  in  order  to  obtain 
complete  protection,  the  operation 
of  vaccination  should  be  performed 
at  puberty,  or  when  growth  is 
completed. 

The  insertion  of  lymph  by  three 
punctures  is  sufficient  for  re-vacci- 
nation. 

The  lymph  from  a  re- vaccinated 
vesicle  should  never  be  used  for 
primary  vaccination. 

'Wounds,  Cuts,  Stabs. 
These  are  of  several  kinds — e.g., 
incised,  contused,  lacerated,  punc- 
tured—  requiring  each  a  modified 
treatment. 

Incised  wounds. — These  are  clean 
cuts  or  wounds,  with  smooth  defined 
edges. 


Accidents,  Diseases,  and  Symptoms. 


47i 


Contused  wounds  are  wounds 
attended  with  bruising  of  the  parts, 
such  as  seen  in  gunshot  wounds. 

Lacerated  wounds  are  pretty  much 
the  same  as  bruised  wounds — the 
edges  are  rough  and  jagged. 

Pzmctured  wounds  are  where  the 
orifice  of  the  cut  is  small  but  its 
extent  deep,  such  as  in  stabs. 

Treatment. — Incised  wound. — In 
the  case  of  incised  wound  or  clean 
cut,  if  not  large  in  extent,  it  will 
heal  readily  by  the  edges  being 
brought  together  by  means  of  some 
simple  unirritating  plaster,  such  as 
"adhesive  plaster,"  or  "isinglass 
plaster,"  or  goldbeaters  skin. 

It  may  be  advisable  to  bring  the 
edges  of  a  wound  together  with 
stitches.  The  most  convenient 
needle  for  this  purpose  is  a  glover's 
needle,  and  white  silk  is  the  best 
material  for  the  sewing. 

If  the  wound  has  been  inflicted 
by  broken  glass,  &c,  the  surfaces 
should  be  carefully  searched  for 
any  fragments  or  foreign  bodies 
before  the  edges  are  brought  to- 
gether. 

If  the  bleeding  be  profuse,  the 
wound  should  be  left  exposed  to  the 
air  for  a  while,  or  the  ordinary  means 
used  to  stop  the  bleeding. 

If  the  cut  be  a  long  one,  there 
should  be  small  intervals  left  be- 
tween the  strips  of  plaster,  in  order 
to  allow  blood  or  other  fluids  to 
escape.  This  strapping-plaster  need 
not  be  removed  for  three  or  four 
days,  unless  there  be  pain  and 
throbbing  in  the  wound ;  in  this 
case  they  should  be  loosened,  or 
even  removed,  as  these  symptoms 
indicate  inflammation.  If  it  be 
necessary  to  remove  the  strapping 
before  union  has  taken  place,  the 
wound  should  then  be  dressed  with 
water  and  lint  covered  with  oil-silk 
or  gutta-percha. 

Scalp  wounds. — Cuts  on  the  scalp 
should  be  carefully  cleansed  from 


hair,  which  should  also  be  removed 
for  about  half  an  inch  around  the 
wound.  If  small  the  edges  can  be 
brought  together  with  plaster.  If 
the  wound  be  large,  it  is  better 
simply  treated  with  cold  water 
dressing.  No  stitches  should  be 
put  in  these  wounds  unless  they 
are  very  ragged  and  gaping,  as  they 
are  prone  to  excite  erysipelas  in  this 
part  of  the  skin. 

Bruised,  contused,  and  lacerated 
wounds.  —  In  consequence  of  the 
tearing  or  bruising  of  the  edges  of 
a  lacerated  wound,  the  vitality  of 
those  parts  is  more  or  less  im- 
paired ;  hence  these  wounds  do  not 
heal  as  readily  as  a  clean  cut. 

In  treating  a  contused  wound, 
the  surface  should  first  be  carefully 
sponged  clean  of  clotted  blood,  or 
foreign  bodies  of  any  kind,  such  as 
portions  of  clothing,  small  shot, 
etc. 

The  simple  water  dressing,  or 
wet  lint,  covered  with  oil-silk,  is 
the  most  suitable  for  this  kind  of 
injury.  If  the  soft  parts  be  much 
torn  they  may  be  bound  down 
by  a  roller,  and  water  dressing 
applied. 

After  a  time,  the  surface  of  a 
wound  of  this  kind  becomes  sluggish 
in  its  healing,  and  resembles  an 
ulcer.  It  should  then  be  treated 
with  zinc  ointment,  or  yellow  basi- 
licon. 

Stabs,  or  punctured  wounds, 
require  special  treatment,  varying 
with  their  depth,  and  the  part  in 
which  they  occur. 

A  slight  wound  of  this  sort,  not 
penetrating  deeply,  may  be  dressed 
with  isinglass  plaster,  adhesive 
plaster,  or  goldbeater's  skin. 

If,  however,  deeper,  but  not 
entering  a  cavity,  the  simple  water 
dressing  should  be  applied,  and  the 
part  wounded  be  so  placed  that 
blood  may  escape  freely.  For  this 
reason  it   is   not  advisable  to  en- 


472 


Accidents,  Diseases,  and  Symptoms. 


deavour  to  heal  a  punctured  wound 
quickly. 

If  the  bleeding  from  the  wound 
does  not  stop  from  the  exposure  to 
cold,  the  wound  may  be  plugged 
with  lint  or  soft  linen,  soaked  in 
tincture  of  perchloride  of  iron, 
diluted  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
water,  or  with  tincture  of  matico. 
The  plugging  may  be  allowed  to 
remain  in  twelve  hours.  After 
its    removal,    if    the    bleeding    be 


checked,   dress    as  above   directed 
with  water. 

A  deeply  punctured  wound  is 
prone  to  heal  at  the  surface  ;  this 
should  be  prevented  by  inserting  a 
strip  of  lint  between  the  lips  of  the 
wound,  so  as  to  allow  of  the  escape 
of  matter.  The  healing  from  the 
bottom  is  sometimes  to  be  promoted 
by  injecting  with  a  weak  solution  of 
Condy's  fluid  (a  teaspoonful  to  a 
pint  of  water. 


ARTICLES    SUITABLE   FOR   A   MEDICINE   CHEST. 


Acetate  of  ammonia, 
or  Mindererus  spirit. 

Acetate  of  lead. 

Adhesive  plaster. 

Aloes. 

Alum. 

Bark,  compound  tinc- 
ture of. 

Basilicon  ointment. 

Bicarbonate  of  soda. 

Blistering  plaster,  or 
liquid. 

Borax. 

Calomel. 

Carbonate  of  ammonia. 

Carded  wool. 

Carded  oakum.  "Sty- 
pium." 

Castor  oil. 

Catechu,  tincture  of. 

Chalk,  prepared. 

Cod-liver  oil. 

Compound  colocynth 
pills. 


Compound      rhubarb 
pills. 

Creasote. 

Diluted  sulphuric  acid. 

Dover's  powder. 

Epsom  salts. 

Ether. 

Forceps     of     different 
sizes. 

Glass  measures. 

Grey  powder,    or  mer- 
cury with  chalk. 

Iodide  of  potassium. 

Iodine,  tincture  of. 

Ipecacuanha  powder. 

Ipecacuanha  wine. 

Iron,  muriated  tincture 
of. 

Jalap. 

James's  powder. 

Laudanum. 

Linseed  meal. 

Lint 

Lunar  caustic. 


Magnesia. 

Mortars  and  pestles. 

Nitre,  powdered. 

Nitre,  spirits  of. 

Oil  silk,  or  gutta  per- 

cha  tissue. 
Opodeldoc. 
Oxide  of  zinc. 
Paregoric. 

Peppermint,  essence  of. 
Quinine. 

Rhubarb  powder. 
Scales  and  weights.. 
Scissors. 
Senna  leaves. 
Spatulas. 
Tartaric  acid. 
Tincture  of  benzoin,  or 

Friar's  balsam. 
Turpentine,  spirits  of. 
Zinc,  sulphate  of. 
Zinc,  oxide  of. 


473 


POISONING   AND    ITS    TREATMENT. 


SYMPTOMS. — These  generally  are  sudden  in  their  occurrence.  As  in 
criminal  or  accidental  poisoning  the  quantity  of  the  poison  is  usually 
large,  the  symptoms  are  both  sudden  and  severe.  In  criminal  poisoning, 
however,  as  is  well  known  from  many  notorious  instances  that  have  been 
made  public,  the  dose  sometimes  given  is  small  and  continued  for  a  long  in- 
terval so  as  to  give  the  symptoms  the  characters  of  disease.  Villany  often 
succeeds  in  this  attempt,  but  happily  more  frequently  fails.  It  is  in  these 
cases  that  the  true  nature  of  the  symptoms  becomes  difficult  of  detection, 
and  calls  for  the  closest  vigilance.  The  circumstances  attending  the  large 
and  clumsy  doses  of  the  first  mentioned  class  of  cases  are  for  the  most 
part  so  obvious  that  a  little  investigation  leads  to  discovery.  Another 
feature  attends  these,  that  is  the  suddenness  and  severity  of  the  attack 
not  unfrequently  induces  a  suspicion  of  poisoning  where  truly  disease 
alone  is  the  cause  of  death  or  illness.  Further  investigation  will  generally 
lead  to  a  correct  conclusion.  The  symptoms  of  the  most  common 
poisons  now  to  be  related  will  be  found  of  assistance  in  the  formation  of 
an  opinion  m  either  instance. 

Circumstances  Modifying  Action  of  Poisons.— There  are  cer- 
tain conditions  of  the  body  which  modify  the  action  of  poisons.  Sleep 
or  intoxication  for  example  which  retards,  or  debilitated  states  of  the  body 
which  accelerate  their  action.  Different  diseases  also  have  very  different 
influence  over  the  action  of  poisons,  some  accelerating  and  others  retard- 
ing them. 

Distinctive  Symptoms. — Then  again,  the  symptoms  of  poisoning 
will  generally  occur  after  a  meal  or  medicines  have  been  taken,  manifest- 
ing themselves  within  an  hour  after  the  poison  has  been  introduced  into 
the  system.  Strong  presumptive  evidence  of  poisoning  may  also  be  as- 
sumed when  a  number  of  people,  who  have  been  partaking  of  the  same  food, 
are  all  seized  with  similar  symptoms.  In  such  a  case  it  is  very  advisable 
to  cause  a  strict  investigation  to  be  made  into  the  articles  of  food  of  which 
the  sufferers  have  partaken,  and  not  only  this,  but  all  the  culinary  uten- 
sils, in  which  the  food  has  been  prepared,  should  also  be  examined. 

Diseases  Resembling  Poisoning.— Great  caution  should,  however, 
be  observed  before  arriving  at  the  conclusion  that  poisons  have  been  ad- 
ministered, and  it  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  there  are  many  diseases 
the  symptoms  of  which  offer  a  close  resemblance  to  those  of  poisoning  ; 
among  these  are  those  particularly  affecting  the  nervous  system,  such  as 
apoplexy,  lockjaw,  epilepsy,  etc.  The  symptoms  of  cholera  are  often  very 
sudden,  and  have  been  mistaken  for  those  of  poisoning,  as  have  also 
colic   or   perforations,  resulting  from  ulceration  of  either  the  stomach 


474 


Poisoning  and  its  Treatment. 


or  intestines.  The  diseases  of  the  heart  also  frequently  cause  the  sudden 
appearance  of  alarming  symptoms,  which,  if  the  existence  of  disease  were 
not  suspected,  might  easily  be  mistaken  for  those  of  poisoning. 

CLASSIFICATION    OP    POISONS. 

The  poisons   most  commonly  met  with  may  be  divided  into  three 
classes — viz.,  animal,  vegetable,  and  mineral  ;  of  these  the  two  latter  ar 
more  numerous,  or  at  all  events  more  commonly  met  with  than  the 
former. 

ANIMAL    POISONS. 


In  the  first  class  is  poisoning  from 
certain  shellfish,  such  as  mussels, 
lobsters,  etc.,  the  eating  of  which  is 
sometimes  followed  by  an  eruption 
of  nettle-rash  over  the  whole  body, 
which  causes  it  to  have  a  bloated 
swollen  appearance,  and  produces 
difficulty  of  breathing,  accompanied 
with  giddiness,  nausea,  stomach- 
ache, and  great  thirst. 

Treatment. — If  commenced  within 
two  or  three  hours  after  the  appear- 
ance of  the  symptoms,  an  emetic  of 
mustard,  salt,  and  warm  water, 
should  be  given.  The  emetic  should 
be  compounded  thus  : — 

Mustard,  I  teaspoonful. 

Common  salt,  I  teaspoonful. 

Warm  water,  a  tumblerful. 
Mix,  and  take  as  a  draught. 


Should,  however,  a  longer  time 
have  elapsed,  purgatives,  such  as 
a  tablespoonful  of  castor  oil,  or  half 
an  ounce  of  Epsom  salts,  should  be 
administered  and  repeated  until  full 
action  is  obtained.  Stimulants, 
such  as  salvolatile,  or  aromatic 
spirits  of  ammonia,  and  ether,  may 
also  be  administered  if  there  be 
much  depression. 

The  following  form  would  be  a 
useful  draught  : — Take  of 

Nitrous     spirits     of     ether,      30 
minims. 

Spirits     of     salvolatile,    30     mi- 
nims. 

Water,  to  make  up  \\  ounces. 
Repeat  the  dose  every  two  or  three 
hours  until  the  system  rallies. 


VEGETABLE  POISONS. 


Of  these  the  most  commonly  met 
with  are  the  aconite  or  monks- 
hood, belladonna  or  deadly  night- 
shade ;  the  hellebore,  hemlock, 
henbane,  foxglove,  laburnum,  yew, 
colchicum  or  meadow  saffron,  and 
mushrooms,  all  of  which  are  indi- 
genous to  this  country.  Others, 
such  as  opium,  Indian  hemp,  nux 
vomica,  and  gamboge,  are  not 
native  here. 

Among  vegetable  poisons  should 
be  included  oxalic  acid,  and  that  most 
deadly  of  all  poisons,  prussic  acid, 
which  is  found  in  undiluted  "almond 
flavouring"  used  for  culinary  pur- 
Doses. 


Symptoms. — Vegetable  poisons 
have  many  features  in  common, 
thus  they  are  strongly  acrid  and 
narcotic,  or  depressing ;  causing 
drowsiness,  feebleness  of  pulse, 
vomiting,  purging,  and  griping. 

Under  the  following  enumeration, 
the  symptoms  peculiar  to  each  will 
be  found,  together  with  their  appro- 
priate treatment. 

In  order  to  assist  the  reader  in 
the  detection  of  vegetable  poisons, 
we  have  appended  a  plate  giving 
representations  of  some  of  the  poi- 
sonous plants  most  commonly  met 
with  in  temperate  climates,  and 
which  are  most  likely  to  be  mistaken 


/.    Green.   Hellebore. 

boras  v 

3.    Yew. 

baixaL 


2.   .//W.V  Hood. 

\;i|>rlliis 

Ah\jp;i  Bdladumia.. 


Poisoning  and  its  Treatment. 


475 


for  harmless  plants  by  children  and 
others. 

Aconite  {Monkshood).  {See 
Plate.)  Symptoms. — A  sensation  of 
burning,  tingling,  or  numbness,  in 
the  mouth  and  throat.  Giddiness, 
loss  of  power  to  stand  firmly,  pain 
in  the  region  of  the  stomach,  frothing 
at  the  mouth,  vomiting  and  purg- 
ing. The  pupils  are  dilated,  the 
skin  cold  and  livid,  the  breathing 
becomes  difficult.  In  some  cases 
delirium  and  paralysis  follow. 

Treatment. — An  emetic  should 
immediately  be  given,  such  as  a 
mixture  of  mustard,  salt,  and  warm 
water,  thus  : — 

Mustard,  I  teaspoonful. 

Common  salt,  I  teaspoonful. 

Warm  water,  a  tumblerful. 
Or, 

Sulphate  of  zinc,  20  grains. 

Water,  1  ounce. 
Given  every  half  hour  until  the 
stomach  has  been  emptied  of  the  poi- 
son. Acidulous  fluids,  such  as  vine- 
gar and  water,  and  cordials  should 
be  given  freely.  External  warmth 
should  be  kept  up  by  mustard 
plasters,  hot  water  bottles  to  the 
feet,  and  friction  of  the  surface. 

Distinction. — The  root  of  this 
plant  is  often  mistaken  for  horse- 
radish which  it  closely  resembles  ; 
therefore  great  care  should  be 
taken  not  to  allow  the  two  plants  to 
grow  in  the  same  garden.  The 
leaves  and  seeds  of  the  plant  are 
also  poisonous. 

Belladonna  {Deadly  Night- 
shade). {See  Plate.)  The  leaves, 
berries,  stalks — or  extract  or  tincture 
made  from  these — are  most  com- 
monly met  with  as  causes  of  poison. 

Symptoms. — Heat  and  dryness  of 
mouth,  a  feeling  of  tightness  in  the 
throat.  Nausea,  vomiting,  giddi- 
ness, indistinct  or  double  sight,  in- 
tense excitement,  delirium  of  a  pe- 
culiar kind,  the  patient  twists  him- 
seif  round  and  round,  butts  against 


the  wall  with  his  head,  and  performs 
various  other  antics.  These  are 
followed  by  heaviness  and  lethargy. 

Treatment.  —  Begin     by     giving 
freely  a  mixture  of  about  one  part 
of  vinegar  to  two  of  water.     Then 
cause  evacuation  of  the  stomach  by 
means  of  emetics,  such  as  : — 
Mustard,  1  teaspoonful. 
Common  salt,  1  ditto. 
Warm  water,  a  tumblerful. 
Taken  at  a  draught. 
Or, 
Sulphate  of  zinc,  20  grains. 
Water,  1  ounce. 
Dissolved,  and  taken  as  a  draught. 
Promote   vomiting   by   warm  water 
slightly  acidulated  with  vinegar. 

The  bowels  should  be  emptied  by 
injections  of  castor  oil. 

XJigitalis  purpurea  {Fox- 
glove). {See  Plate.)  Symptoms. — 
Vomiting  and  purging,  accompanied 
with  severe  pain  in  the  stomach. 
This  is  followed  by  a  state  of 
lethargy,  during  which  the  patient 
will  sleep  for  hours  ;  this,  again,  is 
followed  by  convulsions.  The  pupils 
are  dilated  and  insensible  to  the 
stimulating  effect  of  light,  the  pulse 
becomes  small  and  irregular  ;  and 
should  the  dose  have  been  large,  and 
the  proper  measures  not  adopted, 
coma  or  insensibility  of  a  severe 
kind  will  rapidly  set  in,  and  be 
followed  by  death. 

Treatment.  A  free  use  of  emetics 
{see  under  Hemlock)  should  be  pur- 
sued. Drinks  containing  tannic 
acid,  such  as  strong  tea  and  infusion 
of  gall-nuts,  should  be  given,  if  the 
prostration  be  great  brandy  should 
also  be  given  freely. 

All  the  parts  of  this  plant  are 
poisonous  ;  they  owe  their  poisonous 
properties  to  an  active  principle 
called  digitalin.  This,  in  combina- 
tion with  tannic  acid,  is  rendered 
innocuous  ;  hence  the  reason  for  its 
administration  in  cases  of  poison- 


476 


Poisoning  and  its  Treatment. 


Gamboge  {Cambogia).  Symp- 
toms.— Violent  vomiting,  severe  pain 
in  the  stomach  and  excessive  purg- 
ing, followed  by  great  prostration 
of  strength. 

Treat7nent. — Carbonate  of  potash 
should  be  given  as  follows  : — 

Carbonate  of  potash,  20  grains. 

Mucilage,  or  solution  of  gum,  \  oz. 

Water  to  make  up  1  ounce. 
Mix,  and  take  every  hour  until  the 
purging  has  stopped.  When  this  is 
the  case,  and  the  poison  is  supposed 
to  be  evacuated,  give  the  following 
every  half  hour  : — 

Tincture  of  opium,  10  drops. 

Water,  1  ounce.     Mix. 

Gamboge  is  a  gum  resin  obtained 
from  the  Garcinia  Morella,  a  native 
of  Spain.  It  is  but  little  used  in 
legitimate  medicine,  on  account  of 
its  violent  and  uncertain  action. 
Quack  pills  contain  it  in  very  va- 
riable quantities. 

Hellebores,  the. — The  Green 
Hellebore  {Helleborus  viridis). 

The  White  Hellebore  ( Veratrum 
album). 

The  Black  Hellebore,  or  Christ- 
mas rose  {Helleborus  niger). 

The  Foetid  Hellebore  {Helleborus 
fast  id  a). 

All  of  these  are  powerful  poisons, 
the  white  hellebore  especially  so. 

Symptoms.  —  Vomiting,  purging, 
giddiness,  dilatation  of  the  pupils, 
convulsions,  insensibility,  great  heat 
of  the  throat,  and  tightness,  with 
severe  pain  in  the  stomach. 

Treatment. — Vomiting  should  be 
'  excited  by  large  doses  of  solution  of 
gum  and  other  mucilaginous  fluids 
(such  as  milk,  white  of  egg,  etc.), 
and  injections  of  the  same  materials 
should  be  thrown  up  into  the  bowel. 

Coffee  should  then  be  given  freely, 
and  acidulous  fluids  and  camphor- 
water. 

The  roots  and  leaves  of  this  plant 
are  both  poisonous,  the  roots  espe- 
cially. 


Hemlock  {Conium  Maculatum). 
{See  Plate.)  Sy?nptoms. — This  plant 
attacks  the  muscular  power,  and 
causes  paralysis  of  the  limbs,  sick- 
ness, pain  in  the  head,  drowsiness, 
and  sometimes  it  so  affects  the  mus- 
cles of  respiration  as  to  cause  death. 

Treatment. — The  stomach  should 
be  evacuated  by  some  powerful 
emetic,  such  as  the  following  : — 

Sulphate  of  zinc,  20  grains. 

Dissolved  in  water,  a  wineglassful. 
Or, 
Mustard,  1  teaspoonful. 
Common  salt,  1  teaspoonful. 
Warm  water,  a  tumblerful. 

After  this,  cold  water  should  be 
applied  to  the  head.  Vinegar  and 
water  {see  under  Deadly  Nightshade) 
should  be  administered. 

The  poisonous  properties  of  this 
plant  reside  in  the  leaves,  which 
somewhat  resemble  parsley,  for 
which  they  have  occasionally  been 
mistaken.  The  seeds  and  the  root 
are  also  poisonous. 

Henbane  {Hyoscyamus).  {See 
Plate.)  Symptoms. — Vomiting,  double 
vision,  dilatation  of  the  pupils,  sleepi- 
ness, loss  of  muscular  power,  a 
peculiarly  tremulous  motion  of  the 
limbs,  flushing  of  the  countenance, 
heat  and  weight  of  head,  giddiness, 
fulness  of  the  pulse,  and  general 
excitement. 

If  the  dose  has  been  a  large  one, 
the  symptoms  will  be  aggravated, 
there  will  be  loss  of  speech,  delirium, 
coma,  coldness  of  the  surface,  and 
jerkings  of  the  muscles. 

Treatment. — As  soon  as  possible, 
empty  the  stomach  by  emetics,  and 
give  acidulous  drinks  ;  if,  however, 
the  poison  has  entered  the  system, 
purgatives  must  be  given. 

The  seeds  are  the  most  poisonous, 
the  leaves  next,  and  the  roots  last. 

Indian  Hemp  {Cannabis  In- 
died).  Haschisch.  Symptoms. — Much 
the  same  as  those  of  opium,  but  are 
of  a  much  more  pleasant  nature  to 


/  .    Cuckoo  I 'int. 

Arum   .\l;iiiil,iliiiii 

.'/' .    l  Meado  u  • .  \afjfi'on . 

('iilriiirillii    .•iiiliui 


'.' .    Henbane,. 

1 1 v < isc\. hii i is  njge 
/-       II '/>//// \  ■  ,  \'is////s/i/u//' . 

H11U.1U   puluiUL 


Poisoning  and  its  Treatment. 


477 


the  patient,  being  associated  with 
delightful  dreams  and  visions. 

Treatment. — Much  the  same  as  in 
the  case  of  poisoning  by  opium. 

Cases  of  poisoning  by  this  plant 
are  very  rarely  met  with  in  England. 
In  hot  climates,  however,  it  is  fre- 
quently met  with,  especially  in  India. 

laburnum  (Cytisus  Labur- 
num). Symptoms.  —  Pain  in  the 
stomach,  followed  by  vomiting  and 
severe  convulsions  if  the  dose  has 
been  a  large  one.  There  is  also 
shivering,  great  feebleness,  and  se- 
vere purging. 

Treatment. — The  vomiting  should 
be  encouraged  by  mucilage,  milk, 
white  of  egg,  flour  and  water. 

Should  the  feebleness  be  very 
great,  cordials  and  brandy  should  be 
given  in  repeated  small  doses. 

The  bark  and  seeds  of  this  plant 
are  poisonous,  and  owe  their  dele- 
terious properties  to  an  active  prin- 
ciple called  Cytisine. 

Meadow  Saffron  (Colchi- 
cum  autumnale).  Symptoms.  —  A 
burning  pain  in  the  gullet  and  sto- 
mach, violent  vomiting,  and  some- 
times bilious  purging. 

Treatment.  —  Give  some  mild 
emetic,  thus  : — 

Ipecacuanha  wine,  \  ounce. 

Honey,  i  tablespoonful. 

Milk,  a  teacupful. 
Stir  up  and  mix  thoroughly,  and  let 
the  patient  take  it  at  a  draught. 
This  should  be  repeated  every  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  till  vomiting  sets  in. 
Of  course  the  dose  of  ipecacuanha 
wine  should  be  smaller  for  children, 
one-half  or  one-fourth  of  the  above 
quantity  being  ample  for  a  child 
under  five  years  old. 

Then  give  opium  as  follows  (to 
adults  only)  : — 

Powdered  opium,  3  grains. 

Confection  of  dog  rose,  sufficient 
to  make  a  small  mass  with  the 
opium. 
Divide  this  into  six  pills,  and  let 


the  patient  have  one  every  four 
hours,  until  the  symptoms  of  poison- 
ing abate. 

Or, 

Tincture  of  opium,  1  fluid  drachm. 

Water,  to  6  fluid  ounces.     Mix. 
Two    tablespoonfuls    to    be    taken 
every  two  hours. 

Mushrooms  (Fungi).  Symt- 
ums. — Pain  in  the  stomach  accom- 
panied with  vomiting,  giddiness, 
drowsiness,  dimness  of  sight,  and 
debility.  The  patient  appears  to  be 
intoxicated. 

Treatment. — This  cannot  better  be 
expressed  than  in  the  terse  and  plain 
terms  of  Professor  Taylor.  They 
are  :  "  The  free  use  of  emetics  and 
castor  oil." 

Nux  Vomica  (Strychnine). 
Symptoms. — An  intensely  bitter  taste 
in  the  mouth.  Tipsy  manner,  sick- 
ness, headache,  jerking  of  the  arms 
and  legs,  and  twitching  of  the  body. 
Lockjaw,  great  difficulty  in  breath- 
ing, with  intense  pain  in  the  chest, 
and  a  sense  of  suffocation. 

Treatme7it.  —  Evacuate  the  sto- 
mach and  bowels.  Give  vinegar 
(See  Deadly  Nightshade)  and  other 
acidulous  drinks.  If  the  spasms  be 
very  severe  and  constant,  and  do 
not  yield  to  the  emetics,  etc.,  then 
try  injections  of  infusions  of  tobacco, 
as  follows  : — 

Tobacco  (shag),  30  grains. 

Water,  8  fluid  ounces. 
Mix,  and  allow  to  stand  for  half  an 
hour,  occasionally  shaking.      Then 
strain,  and  inject  into  the  bowel  in 
the  interval  of  the  spasms. 

Strychnia  is  one  of  the  most  deadly 
poisons,  a  very  small  quantity  being 
capable  of  killing  a  strong  man. 

Opium  :  an  extract  from  the 
poppy.  (Pap-aver Somnif era.)  Symp- 
toms. —  Drowsiness,  stupor,  de- 
lirium, pallid  countenance,  con- 
tracted pupil,  sighing,  loud  or 
snoring  respiration,  cold  sweats, 
coma,  and  death. 


478 


Poisoning  ana  its  Treatment. 


Treatment. — Emetics  of  the  sul- 
phate of  zinc — (.sunder  H  emlock) — 
or  if  the  patient  be  too  far  gone  to 
take  these,  the  stomach-pump  should 
be  applied  {See  page  663).  The  pa- 
tient should  on  no  account  be  allowed 
to  sleep,  but  his  attention  should  be 
constantly  aroused.  A  good  plan  is 
to  walk  the  patient  rapidly  and  in- 
cessantly about.  A  tepid  bath  is 
useful  lor  arousing  the  sleepy  ener- 
gies, and  cold  water  should  be  dashed 
over  the  head  at  the  same  time. 
Opium  is  the  juice  of  the  poppy, 
which  runs  from  incision  made  in 
the  unripe  fruit.  Its  principal  pro- 
perties are  due  to  an  active  principle 
contained  in  it,  which  is  called  mor- 
phia. In  cases  of  overdoses  of  this 
drug,  the  same  treatment  should  be 
adopted. 

Oxalic  Acid.  Symptoms.  —  If 
the  dose  be  a  large  one,  while  it  is 
being  swallowed  a  hot  burning  acid 
taste  is  experienced,  extending 
downwards  to  the  stomach,  vomit- 
ing then  occurs,  or  within  a  few 
minutes. 

There  is  a  severe  feeling  of  tightness 
in  the  throat,  and  sometimes  delirium. 

When  the  dose  is  smaller  the  pain 
is  less,  and  vomiting  does  not 
set  in  so  soon.  At  times  there  is  no 
vomiting,  at  others  it  alone  causes 
death  by  causing  exhaustion. 

Treatment.  —  Some  chalk  and 
water  should  be  immediately  ad- 
ministered, and  a  quantity  of  water 
drunk  to  encourage  vomiting. 

This  is  not  often  administered 
with  a  criminal  intent,  the  taste  is 
too  strong;  but  it  is  taken  some- 
times in  mistake  for  Epsom  salts, 
which  it  somewhat  resembles. 

Frussic  Acid  {Hydrocyanic 
Acid).  Symptoms.  —  Pallid  ap- 
pearance, giddiness,  great  nervous 
prostration,  loss  of  sight  more  or 
less  complete,  faintness,  laboured 
and  hard  respiration,  loss  of  power 
of  motion. 


Treatment.  —  The  stomach-pump 
should  be  applied  ;  or  if  this  is  not 
handy,  emetics,  such  as  mustard, 
salt  and  water.  {See  under  Hem- 
lock.) Dash  cold  water  over  the 
head  and  chest.  Give  salvolatile 
as  follows  : — 

Spirits  of  salvolatile,  1  drachm. 

Water  to  1  ounce.     Mix. 
Every  quarter  of  an  hour  until  there 
are  some  signs  of  revival. 

Prussic  acid  is  the  most  powerful 
poison  known.  This  poison  is  often 
met  with  in  the  essential  oil  of 
almonds,  and  great  care  should 
therefore  be  taken  in  the  use  of  this 
pleasant  flavouring. 

"Yew  {Tarns  baccatd).  {See 
Plate.)  Symptoms. — Professor  Taylor 
gives  the  symptoms  of  poisoning  by 
this  plant  as  follows : — "  Convulsions, 
insensibility,  coma,  dilated  pupils, 
pale  countenance,  small  pulse,  and 
cold  extremities  are  the  most  pro- 
minent ;  vomiting  and  purging  are 
also  observed  among  the  symptoms." 

Treatment. — As  in  many  other 
vegetable,  indeed  it  might  safely  be 
said  in  all  poisons,  vomiting  should 
be  excited,  and  this  is  best  done,  and 
perhaps  in  the  quickest,  safest  man- 
ner by  an  emetic  of  mustard,  salt, 
and  water.  Should  the  convulsions 
be  very  acute,  and  there  be  great 
heat  of  head,  cold  should  be  applied. 
If  the  pulse  is  very  small,  and  the 
prostration  of  the  patient  is  great, 
as  soon  as  the  stomach  is  tho- 
roughly emptied,  brandy  should  be 
given. 

It  is  commonly  supposed  that  the 
leaves  of  this  plant  are  not  poison- 
ous when  fresh,  but  this  is  erroneous. 
They  are  at  all  times  poisonous. 
The  berries  also  are  very  dangerous, 
more  especially  to  children,  as  they 
have  an  agreeable  taste,  and  look 
tempting.  The  danger  of  the  leaves 
is  not  so  much  for  the  human  race 
as  it  is  for  cattle,  who  are  fond  of 
eating  them. 


479 


MINERAL    POISONS. 


The  mineral  poisons  are  perhaps 
those  most  commonly  used  for 
criminal  or  suicidal  purposes,  and 
they  are  certainly  more  easily  de- 
tected by  chemical  means  than  are 
either  the  vegetable  or  animal  poi- 
sons. Science  has  as  yet  found 
out  but  few  certain  tests  for  the 
vegetable  poisons  compared  with 
the  large  number  of  accurate  and 
easily  available  tests  for  the  mineral 
poisons. 

Perhaps  the  most  important  of 
this  class  of  poisons  is  arsenic,  as  it 
is  certainly  the  most  fatal  ;  others, 
such  as  antimony,  copper,  lead, 
mercury,  and  the  acids,  are  in  many 
cases  very  fatal,  but  few  of  these 
possess  the  power  of  destroying  life 
to  anything  like  the  extent  that  is 
possessed  by  arsenic. 

Acid,  Carbolic.  The  powerful 
odour  of  this  acid  prevents  its  being 
frequently  taken  accidentally,  but  it 
has  been  taken  with  suicidal  intent. 

Symptoms. — These  are  much  the 
same  as  the  other  powerful  irritant 
poisons.  There  is  an  intense  burn- 
ing pain  in  the  mouth  and  gullet, 
accompanied  with  a  feeling  of  tight- 
ness in  the  throat,  vomiting  of 
shreds  of  mucus,  griping  pain  in 
the  stomach,  the  lips  and  insides  of 
the  cheeks  present  a  charred  ap- 
pearance, and  if  its  action  be  not 
checked,  the  nervous  system  suffers 
and  the  organs  of  the  senses  are 
impaired,  and  death  rapidly  fol- 
lows. 

Treatment.  —  Albuminous  fluids 
should  be  given  in  large  doses,  such 
as  white  of  egg,  flour  and  water,  gruel, 
and  milk.  Magnesia,  and  chalk 
and  water,  is  useful  in  these  cases. 
Emetics  of  mustard  should  also  be 
freely  administered. 

Acid,  Hydrochloric  {Muria- 


tic Acid.  Spirits  of  Salt).— Both 
the  symptoms  and  treatment  of  a 
case  of  poisoning  by  this  acid  are 
given  under  Sulphuric  Acid. 

Acid,  Nitric  {Aqua  Fortis). 
Symptoms. — {See  Sulphuric  Acid.) 
The  only  difference  is  that  nitric 
acid  does  not  cause  such  a  dark 
discoloration  of  the  lips  and 
mouth. 

Treatment. — Precisely  similar  as 
under  case  of  sulphuric  acid. 

Acid,  Sulphuric  {Oil  of  Vi- 
triol).— This  acts  as  a  poison  by  its 
powerful  corrosive  powers.  It  sel- 
dom causes  death  by  its  absorption 
into  the  system,  but  rather  by  the 
excessive  irritation  and  inflamma- 
tion which  it  causes  to  the  lining  of 
the  mouth,  the  gullet,  and  the  sto- 
mach. It  immediately  causes  the 
skin  to  have  a  charred  appearance 
of  a  whitish  hue,  which  gradually 
becomes  darker  and  browner ;  it 
causes  pain  in  the  stomach,  vomit- 
ing and  eructations  of  a  gaseous 
character  :  great  nervous  depression, 
which  is  also  shared  by  the  pulse ; 
convulsions,  and  death. 

Treatment. — Give  magnesia  and 
water,  or  lime-water ;  or,  should 
neither  of  these  be  at  ha»d,  give  soap 
and  water  freely. 

Antimony  {Tartar  Emetic. 
Butter  of  Antimony).  Symptoms. — 
These  are  very  much  the  same  as 
those  of  arsenic,  with  the  exception 
that  the  depression,  vomiting,  and 
collapse  are  much  more  rapid, 
owing  to  the  immediate  action  of 
the  poison  on  the  heart. 

Treatment. — Should  the  vomiting 

not  occur  freely,  it  will  be  as  well  to 

give   an   emetic,   and    afterwards  a 

dose  of  tannic  acid  and  water,  thus; — 

Tannic  acid,  10  grains. 

Water,  I  oz.     Mix. 


4b'o 


Mineral  Poisons. 


Or, 

A  dose  of  very  strong  tea,  or 
infusion  of  gall-nuts  mixed  with 
magnesia. 

Arsenic  {Realgar  or  Red  Ar- 
senic, White  Arsenic, Scheele's  Green, 
Orpiment,  or  Yellow  Arsenic). 
Symptoms. — An  unpleasantly  strong- 
metallic  taste,  a  tightness  in  the 
throat,  vomiting  of  a  brown  mucous 
character  mixed  with  blood,  fainting, 
great  thirst,  excessive  pain  in  the 
stomach  with  shivering,  purging, 
the  stools  being  very  offensive  and 
of  a  dark  character,  pulse  small  and 
rapid,  great  nervous  prostration,  and 
delirium. 

Arsenic  is  sometimes  administered 
in  repeated  small  doses,  and  by  this 
means  is  produced  a  state  which  is 
called  "  chronic  arsenical  poisoning? 
In  this  case,  disorder  of  the  stomach 
and  bowels  exists,  but  does  not  form 
such  a  prominent  symptom  as  in  the 
more  acute  form  of  this  poisoning. 

There  will  be  redness  and  smart- 
ing in  the  eyes,  great  sensibility  of 
the  skin,  at  times  accompanied 
either  by  a  rash,  which  consists  of 
minute  vesicles  or  blisters,  or  else 
by  nettle-rash.  There  is  also  local 
paralysis— that  is  to  say,  paralysis 
of  one  particular  set  of  muscles,  ac- 
companied, or  rather  preceded  by 
numbness  and  tingling  in  the  fingers 
and  toes.  The  patient  loses  flesh 
and  becomes  exhausted,  sometimes 
the  skin  peels  off,  and  loss  of  hair 
occurs. 

Tr"zt;%e?it. — A  substance  termed 
hydrated  peroxide  of  iron  has  been 
strongly  vaunted  as  an  antidote  to 
arsenic. 

The  best  way  to  give  it  is  to  mix 
a  tablespoonful  with  water,  and  give 
every  five  or  ten  minutes.  Should 
this  not  be  procurable,  it  is  best  to 
use  the  stomach-pump  or  emetics. 
{See  under  Hemlock.) 

Large  quantities  of  mucilage  should 
be  given  to  drink,  or  eggs  or  milk. 


When  the  worst  symptoms  have 
subsided,  and  the  patient  is  out  of 
immediate  danger,  he  should  be 
kept  in  bed,  with  warm  poultices 
applied  to  the  pit  of  the  stomach. 
Small  pills  of  one  grain  of  opium 
should  be  given  every  four  hours 
while  pain  continues,  but  no  violent 
aperient. 

Arsenic  is  one  of  those  poisons 
which  begun  with  very  small  doses, 
and  gradually  increasing  them  may 
become  almost  harmless. 

One  form  of  arsenic  ("  Scheele's 
green")  is  largely  used  as  a  colouring 
for  room  papers.  In  this  form  it 
often  does  insidious  mischief,  as  it 
separates  from  the  paper  in  minute 
particles,  and  circulates  freely  in 
the  air  of  the  room  as  dust.  This 
fact  may  be  proved  by  submitting 
some  of  the  dust  which  collects  on 
bookshelves,  etc.,  in  a  room  thus 
ornamented  to  a  few  simple  chemi- 
cal tests,  or  by  causing  some  expert 
to  analyse  it.  By  so  doing  the  in- 
quirer will  often  receive  satisfactory 
evidence  of  the  existence  of  this  poison 
if  he  has  not  previously  had  some 
practical  experience  of  its  effects. 

Copper  {Blue  Vitriol.  Mineral 
Green.  Verdigris).  Symptoms. — 
These,  again,  are  much  the  same  as 
in  arsenic,  but  rather  less  acute.  It 
may  here  be  stated  that  many  al- 
leged cases  of  poison  by  verdigris, 
from  cooking  vessels,  etc.,  are  in 
reality  owing  to  bad  or  decomposed 
food. 

A  poisonous  dose  of  salts  of  copper 
is  always  followed  (if  the  patient 
recovers  from  the  first  effects)  by 
inflammation  of  the  bowels. 

Treatment. — Begin  with  the  sto- 
mach-pump, or  an  emetic.  When 
the  stomach  has  been  evacuated, 
give  white  of  egg,  flour  and  water, 
milk.  The  subsequent  inflamma- 
tion of  the  bowels  should  be  treated 
as  described  under  arsenic. 

lie  ad    ( White  Lead.    Sugar  of 


^^^A 


/.     Cm/ j u i nu  Hrnt/ark, 


■"> .    Fava/avc 


'.' .  Common  . l/r,  wan . 


AlkaHes. 


481 


Lead).  Symptoms. — This  also  causes 
many  of  the  symptoms  described 
under  arsenic,  when  taken  in  a  large 
quantity  ;  but  there  is  a  particular 
form  of  disease  called  lead  colic, 
which  particularly  affects  workers 
in  lead  {see  Colic);  these  people  are 
also  subject  to  a  form  of  paralysis 
(see  Paralysis). 

Treatment.  —  When  taken  in  a 
large  dose,  give  an  emetic  of  sul- 
phate of  zinc  or  copper  (see  Hem- 
lock). If  the  pain  in  the  stomach 
be  severe,  small  doses  of  tincture  of 
opium,  about  10  minims,  should  be 
given  at  short  intervals,  combined 
with  sulphate  of  magnesia. 

Mercury  (Corrosive  Sublimate. 
Calomel.  White  Precipitate).  Symp- 
toms.— Intense  metallic  taste  in  the 
mouth,  pain  in  the  stomach,  purging, 
vomiting,  etc.,  in  fact,  the  symptoms 
of  nearly  all  metallic  poisons  are 
similar.  There  are,  of  course,  cer 
tain  peculiarities  belonging  to  each 
and  that  belonging  to  mercury  is 
the  largely  increased  flow  of  saliva, 
commonly  called  u  salivation,"  which 


almost  invariably  follows  a  poisonous 
dose  of  mercury  in  any  of  its  forms. 
The  period  which  elapses  between 
the  taking  of  the  poison  and  ap- 
pearance of  the  salivation,  varies 
from  a  few  hours  to  some 
days. 

T?-eatmeut.  —  An  emetic  of  sul- 
phate of  zinc  or  copper  (as  under 
Hemlock)  should  be  given  in  white 
of  egg,  mixed  with  milk  or  water, 
milk,  and  flour  and  water  in  large 
draughts.  When  the  salivation  sets 
in,  the  following  will  be  found  use- 
ful when  in  conjunction  with  astrin- 
gent gargles  : — 

Iodide  of  potassium,  24  grains. 

Tincture  of  bark,  1  ounce. 

Water,  to  8  ounces. 
Mix,   and   take   two   tablespoonfuls 
three  times  a  day. 

A  good  form  of  an  astringent 
gargle  is  as  follows  : — 

Alum,  30  grains. 

Water,  to  4  ounces.  Mix,  and 
use  about  a  tablespoonful  as  a  gargle 
every  three  or  four  hours. 


ALKALIES. 


Ammonia.  Symptoms. — Pun- 
gent acrid  odour,  hot  taste,  stomach- 
ache, followed  by  convulsions,  deli- 
rium, and  death. 

Treatment. — Vinegar  and  water 
in  large  doses,  lemon  juice  and  olive 
oil. 

For  any  of  the  other1  alkalies,  soda 
or  potash,  in  their  caustic  forms,  the 
same  treatment  should  be  pursued. 

Chloride  of  Zinc  (Sir  W.  Bur- 
nett's Disinfecting  Fluid). —  Symp- 
toms.— Pain  of  a  burning  kind  in  the 
throat,  nausea  and  vomiting,  griping 
pains  in  the  stomach,  pallor  and 
coldness,  the  legs  are  drawn  up,  and 
there  are  appearances  of  collapse. 


The  strong  or  concentrated  pre- 
paration acts  with  extreme  corrosive 
violence  on  the  mouth,  gullet,  and 
stomach.  Should  the  action  of  this 
poison  be  further  continued,  it  will 
be  found  that  it  affects  the  nervous 
system.  This  will  be  demonstrated 
by  the  patient's  sight  becoming  dim, 
and  the  power  of  taste  and  smell 
less  acute  than  it  is  normally — by 
extreme  depression,  syncope,  and 
death. 

Treatment. — Milk  and  white  ot 
egg  should  be  given  freely,  and 
emetics  of  mustard  and  warm  water, 
combined  with  flour  or  oatmeal. 


II 


482 


ON    THE    MANAGEMENT   OF    THE    SICK- 
ROOM, NURSING^  DIET,  &c. 


CHAPTER  I. 

THE   MANAGEMENT    OF   THE    SICK-ROOM. 

THE  arrangements  of  the  sick-room  require  attention,  and  demand  special 
notice.  They  influence  very  much  the  result,  and  may  indeed,  where 
faulty,  baffle  the  efforts  of  medicine.  We  would  lay  down  the  following 
brief  rules  : — 

1.  Fresh,  Air. — Secure  a  free  and  full  change  of  air  without  chilling 
the  patient.  According  to  the  state  of  the  weather  have  the  door  or 
window  or  both  open.  In  the  summer  time  the  upper  part  of  the  window 
of  a  sick-room  should  always  be  opened  ;  in  cold  weather  a  fire  burning 
acts  as  a  suction-pump  to  draw  off  the  vitiated  air  of  the  room,  at  the 
same  time  that  it  diffuses  sufficient  warmth.  To  secure  purity  of  air,  as 
well  as  the  quiet  so  necessary  for  a  sick-room,  no  more  persons  than 
are  required  should  be  in  the  room.  A  crowd  of  people  leads  to  gossiping 
and  often  exciting  talk. 

2.  The  temperature  of  a  sick-room  should,  if  possible,  be  maintained 
as  near  to  6o°  as  possible.  In  the  winter  season,  unless  great  care  be 
taken,  it  will  easily  fall  below  this.  At  other  times  of  the  year  it  is  more 
readily  overheated. 

In  some  affections  of  the  respiratory  organs  there  is  great  advantage 
in  cold  weather  in  keeping  the  air  of  the  room  warm  and  moist  by  the 
steam  from  the  spout  of  a  kettle.  If  a  piece  of  tin  or  lead  pipe  be  attached 
to  the  spout,  the  steam  can  be  brought  further  into  the  room.  This 
plan  has  the  additional  advantage  of  securing  a  tolerably  equable  tem- 
perature in  the  room — an  important  point  in  the  treatment  of  croup  and 
other  inflammatory  affections  of  the  chest. 

3.  Light. — The  light  should  be  so  adjusted  as  to  be  moderated 
according  to  the  sensibility  of  the  patient.  Some  persons  when  ill  like  a 
dark  room.  This  is  more  particularly  the  case  when  the  head  is  at  all 
affected.  In  delirium  a  darkened  chamber  has  often  a  very  soothing 
effect. 

The  bed  should  not  be  so  placed  that  the  strong  direct  light  falls  upon 
the  face  of  the  patient. 

During  convalescence,  the  bright  and  cheerful  light  of  the  sun  exerts  a 
beneficial  restorative  influence. 


of  the  Sick-room,  etc.  483 


4.  Cleanliness. — A  well-known  proverb  expresses  the  importance  of 
cleanliness ;  and  if  the  proverb  apply  anywhere,  it  applies  still  more 
forcibly  in  the  sick-room. 

A  common  error  is  that  in  eruptive  fevers  the  clothes  should  not  be 
changed  for  fear  of  exposure  of  the  surface  of  the  body  to  a  chill. 
Nothing  can  be  more  mistaken  ;  the  body-linen  should  not  only  be 
changed  daily,  but  the  bed-linen  would  also  be  changed  with  advantage 
at  least  every  two  or  three  days,  and  removed  from  the  room  as  quickly 
as  possible.  The  body  should  also  be  washed  daily.  Children  suffering 
from  scarlet  fever,  measles,  or  typhoid,  derive  comfort  and  benefit  from 
their  bodies  being  sponged  all  over  daily  with  warm  vinegar  and  water. 

The  washing  of  utensils,  and  cleansing  operations  generally,  should 
be  carried  on  as  much  as  possible  out  of  the  sick-room,  in  order  to  avoid 
the  noise  and  bustle  consequent  thereon. 

All  unnecessary  articles  of  furniture  are  better  out  of  the  room. 

Lotions,  Fomentations,  etc. —  External  applications  of  various  kinds 
are  of  so  much  use  in  the  treatment  of  disease  that  a  few  directions  as  to 
their  mode  of  use  cannot  be  misplaced. 

Lotions. — These  may  be  applied  simply  by  frequently  washing  the 
surface  with  them.  In  scarlet  fever  the  sponging  with  warm  vinegar  and 
water  allays  the  irritation  and  heat  of  surface,  and  promotes  the  healthy 
functions  of  the  skin.  A  more  efficient  method  for  an  evaporating  lotion 
is  to  soak  one  or  two  layers  of  soft  linen  or  lint  with  the  lotion,  and  laying 
them  on  the  surface  wet  them  again  when  they  become  dry.  The  drying 
takes  place  through  the  heat  of  the  surface — the  more  rapidly,  the  higher 
the  temperature  of  the  part.  An  evaporating  lotion  is  readily  made  by  a 
wineglassful  of  gin  or  whisky  in  a  pint  of  cold  water. 

Sedative  Lotions.  —  When  the  lotion  is  intended  to  act  more  by 
its  sedative  than  by  its  evaporating  effects,  it  will  suffice  to  lay  lint  oi- 
lmen soaked  in  it  upon  the  surface,  and  cover  it  with  oil  silk  or  gutta- 
percha tissue.  Spongio-piline  is  a  convenient  medium  for  the  application 
of  sedative  or  other  than  evaporative  lotions.  Care,  however,  must  be 
taken  that  it  is  not  put  on  too  wet,  or  the  lotion  will  drain  out  and  wet  the 
clothing  or  bedding. 

A  sedative  lotion  is  made  by  boiling  half  a  pound  of  fresh  hemlock- 
leaves  or  half  a  dozen  poppy-heads  in  three  pints  of  water  down  to  a 
pint  and  a  half. 

Ice. — A  greater  degree  of  cold  is  sometimes  required  to  be  applied  to 
a  small  part  of  the  surface,  as  in  the  case  of  a  rupture  or  in  fever  when 
the  headache  and  heat  of  the  head  are  extreme. 

A  convenient  mode  of  reducing  the  temperature  of  a  part  by  ice  is  to 
pound  some  small  and  enclose  it  in  a  bladder,  taking  care  first  to  squeeze 
out  the  superabundant  air,  and  then  to  tie  the  neck  of  the  bladder  very 
tightly.  The  water  in  the  bladder  will  continue  at  the  temperature  of  the 
ice  until  every  particle  of  it  is  melted. 

Fomentations  are  of  very  great  value  in  the  relief  of  pain  of  internal 
organs  and  of  large  joints  when  inflamed.  They  are  apart  of  the  nurse's 
duties  which  require  promptitude  and  judgment.  If  a  large  joint — a 
knee,  for  instance — be  inflamed,  much  benefit  is  derived  from  swathing 
the  joint  in  flannels  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  and  wrapping  these  again 
in  dry  outer  flannels.    Fomentations  likewise  are  of  great  use  in  inflamma- 

I  I  2 


4^4  Management  of  the  Sick-room,  etc. 

tion  of  the  chest  or  of  the  bowels.  The  hot  wet  flannels  should  be  put  on 
quickly,  and  changed  quickly,  about  every  five  minutes,  so  as  to  avoid 
exposure  to  the  cold  air.  They  may  be  continued  half  an  hour  or  more  if 
they  do  not  fatigue  the  patient. 

Turpentine  Stupes  are  hot  fomentations,  with  spirits  of  turpentine 
sprinkled  on  the  flannels.  These  cannot  be  applied  so  long  as  half 
an  hour — the  heat  and  pungency  of  the  application  is  too  much  to  be 
tolerated  beyond  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  They  may  be  repeated  twice 
a  day. 

Wet  Sheet. — In  fevers  with  great  heat  of  skin,  wrapping  the  whole 
body  in  a  wet  sheet,  and  then  enclosing  in  a  blanket  for  an  hour  or  more, 
will  sometimes  cause  the  skin  to  break  into  a  profuse  perspiration,  reduce 
the  heat  of  the  skin,  and  moderate  the  pulse.  In  some  affections  of  the 
kidney,  attended  with  dryness  of  the  skin  and  absence  of  perspiration, 
the  wet  sheet  has  been  known  to  restore  the  action  of  the  skin  and 
relieve  the  kidneys.  The  wet  sheet  is,  however,  so  much  a  part  of  the 
hydropathic  treatment  of  disease  that  it  can  scarcely  be  safely  or  properly 
used  apart  from  the  medical  supervision  with  all  the  means  and  appliances 
of  a  hydropathic  establishment. 

Poulticiiig. — So  common  a  thing  as  a  poultice  might  seem  beneath 
notice  in  such  a  treatise  as  the  present,  but  some  hints  may  be  given 
thereon  to  the  nurse. 

Thus  in  making  a  linseed-meal  poultice  most  persons  pour  hot  water 
upon  the  meal.  To  make  a  smooth,  firm  poultice,  however,  the  reverse 
should  be  the  plan — viz.,  to  stir  the  meal  into  the  water. 

A  poultice  should  not  be  too  heavy,  especially  if  to  be  applied  on  the 
abdomen.     It  need  not  be  changed  oftener  than  when  it  gets  cold. 

There  are  various  kinds  of  poultices — e.g.,  mustard,  yeast,  carrot,  bran, 
charcoal,  bread. 

Bread  Poultice  may  be  used  alone,  for  most  small  purposes,  such 
as  a  boil.     It  will  be  the  basis  also  of  the  charcoal  and  carrot  poultices. 

Charcoal,  bruised  or  powdered  coarsely,  and  mixed  with  bread  poultice, 
is  useful  for  absorbing  offensive  odours. 

Scraped  Carrot,  mixed  with  bread-poultice,  is  used  to  stimulate  a 
sluggish  and  sloughing  or  mortifying  surface. 

Yeast,  mixed  with  bread-crumb,  forms  also  a  good  poultice  for 
sluggish  and  offensive  ulcers. 

Mustard  Poultice,  or  Sinapism,  may  be  made  several  ways  ;  some- 
times equal  parts  of  bread-crumb  or  flour,  and  mustard  are  used,  but 
the  best  way  is  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  paste  of  mustard  and  water, 
spread  it  on  stiff  brown  paper,  and  cover  with  thin  muslin.  This  poultice 
is  stronger,  but  requires  to  be  kept  on  the  part  a  less  time  than  the  others. 
When  removed,  the  surface  is  easily  cleansed  by  a  soft  towel. 

A  handy  way  of  making  a  mustard  plaster  also  is  to  soak  a  slice  of 
bread  in  water,  and  sprinkle  it  with  flour  of  mustard.  A  ready  and  effi- 
cient sinapism  is  afforded  by  Rigollot's  "mustard  leaves." 

Blistei'ing  Plaster  and  Liquid. — Blistering  a  surface  with  cantharides 
may  be  effected  in  two  ways  ;  one,  by  the  application  of  the  ordinary 
blister  plaster,  the  other  by  painting  with  blistering  liquid. 

When  the  plaster  is  used  it  is  usual  to  leave  it  on  the  skin  of  an  adult 
for  eight  or  ten  hours  ;  when,  if  it  has  raised  a  blister,  this  is  to  be  cut, 


Management  of  the  Sick-room,  etc.  485 

and  the  fluid  having  run  out,  the  surface  is  then  to  be  covered  with  a 
piece  of  fine  dry  wadding  or  carded  wool.  This  dressing  being,  left  on 
for  two  or  three  days,  the  skin  will  be  found  healed  underneath.  This 
plan  is  simpler  and  less  painful  than  dressing  with  lard  or  spermaceti 
ointment. 

If  desirable  to  "  keep  the  blister  open" — i.e.,  its  surface  discharging — it 
may  be  dressed  with  savine  ointment  spread  on  lint  or  linen. 

In  the  cases  of  young  children  the  blister  plaster  should  not  be  al- 
lowed to  remain  longer  than  two  hours,  after  which  period  a  muslin  bagful 
of  warm  bread-and- water  poultice  should  be  laid  on,  and  the  blister  will 
form  under  that.  After  the  blister  has  been  cut,  the  surface  can  either  be 
dressed  with  continuation  of  the  poultice  or  with  dry  wool. 

A  warm  poultice  is  a  most  suitable  dressing  for  blisters,  when  applied 
for  quinsy  or  other  sore  throat. 

Blistering  Liquid. — As  this  is  intended  to  be  swift  in  its  action  it 
should  be  of  the  strongest  kind  that  can  be  purchased.  After  it  has  been 
painted  on  for  a  few  minutes  the  skin  will  be  seen  to  turn  white  ;  that  is 
a  sign  that  enough  has  been  painted  on.  In  the  course  of  half  an  hour 
blisters  will  begin  to  form.     These  can  be  dressed  as  above  directed. 

This  mode  of  raising  a  blister  has  many  advantages  over  the  plaster- 
ing. It  is  speedy  in  its  operation,  it  is  cleaner,  and  it  is  more  manage- 
able for  children  and  persons  in  a  state  of  delirium. 

For  cases  of  apoplexy  or  paralysis,  where  a  speedy  impression  upon 
the  nervous  centres  is  desirable,  the  blistering  liquid  possesses  great  ad- 
vantage, as  it  does  also  in  acute  rheumatism,  in  which  affection  the  pain 
is  often  quickly  relieved  by  having  a  strip  of  the  liquid  painted  round  the 
limb  near  to  the  swollen  joint. 

Counter-Irritation  acts  by  derivation  or  diversion  of  a  morbid  action 
from  one  part  by  setting  up  another  equally  or  more  powerful  influence 
on  the  nerves  of  another  part.  It  places  in  our  hands  a  very  powerful 
means  of  acting  upon  diseases  of  internal  organs  that  are  not  absolutely 
close  to  the  part  acted  upon,  as  well  as  when  applied  near  to  the  seat  of 
the  malady.  An  example  of  the  latter  is  afforded  by  the  influence  of 
belladonna  or  aconite  on  rheumatic  or  neuralgic  pains ;  of  the  former, 
in  the  beneficial  effects  produced  on  the  brain  by  a  blister  plaster  applied 
to  the  nape  of  the  neck. 

Counter-irritants  and  External  Stimulants. — The  following  are  the 
chief  agents  of  this  class  mentioned  in  this  essay  : — 
Blistering  plaster. 

Tincture,  liniment,  and  ointment  of  iodine. 
Compound  camphor  liniment  and  turpentine  liniment. 
Soap  liniment  (opodeldoc). 
Nitrate  of  silver. 
Basilicon  ointment. 
Citrine  ointment. 
Belladonna  liniment. 

Nitrate  of  Silver  {Lunar  Catistic).— Much  misapprehension  prevails 
as  to  the  properties  of  "lunar  caustic."  It  is  very  commonly  said 
to  be  used  for  "  burning "  the  throat,  "  burning "  off  a  wart,  etc.  The 
fact  is,  that  the  word  "  caustic  "  is  here  a  misnomer.  Nitrate  of  silver 
does  not  burn  or  destroy  after  the  manner  of  a  caustic  such  as  pure 


486  Management  of  the  Sick-room,  etc. 

potash  or  quicklime.  Applied  lightly  to  the  skin,  it  acts  on  the  surface  as 
an  astringent  or  sedative  ;  entering  into  chemical  combination  with  the 
outer  skin  it  forms  a  hard  and  horny  layer,  which  compresses  the  part 
beneath  it.  In  this  way  it  acts  as  an  astringent,  and  allays  excitement  of 
the  minute  nerves  of  the  skin,  and  in  this  way  is  useful  in  sore  throats. 
If,  however,  it  be  applied  in  a  strong  or  saturated  solution,  or  rubbed  on 
firmly  to  a  moistened  surface  of  skin,  it  will  raise  a  blister. 

It  is  by  its  astringent  and  sedative  action  that  it  becomes  so  valuable 
a  remedy  in  inflammation  of  the  eyes,  in  erysipelas  and  other  inflamma- 
tions of  the  skin  and  mucous  membranes. 

Tincture  of  Iodine. — Iodine  may  be  applied  externally  in  the  form 
of  tincture  or  of  ointment. 

Its  action  in  the  form  of  a  tincture  depends  upon  the  strength  of  the 
solution. 

As  a  tincture  of  ordinary  strength,  it  promotes  absorption  by  the 
moderate  degree  of  stimulation  that  it  possesses.  In  a  stronger  form  its 
stimulant  action  will  induce  blistering,  whereas  the  weaker  solution  pro- 
duces only  a  peeling  off  of  the  skin.  The  principal  uses  of  tincture  of 
iodine  are  in  chronic  inflammation,  chronic  rheumatism,  thickening  of 
bone,  enlarged  tonsils,  chilblains.  Its  use  may  be  suspended  for  a  day  or 
two  if  the  skin  be  cracked. 

Iodine  Ointment. — When  rubbed  in  as  an  ointment,  iodine  alone, 
or  as  iodide  of  potash  ointment,  has  considerable  power  in  procuring  the 
decrease  of  glandular  swellings,  as  in  strumous  cases,  and  in  goitre. 

Stimulant  Liniments,  Camphor,  etc. — These  forms  of  stimulating  the 
surface  are  of  great  service  in  chronic  rheumatism  and  in  local  pains  of 
various  kinds. 

The  compound  camphor  liniment,  or  the  turpentine  liniment,  is  either 
of  them  a  strong  stimulant. 

Opodeldoc  is  less  powerful,  and  is  well  suited  for  use  with  sedatives, 
such  as  laudanum,  or  belladonna  liniment,  in  neuralgic  or  rheumatic 
pains. 

Belladonna  Liniment  is  a  powerful  poison,  and  requires  therefore 
that  it  should  be  cautiously  used,  being  rubbed  on  gently  with  the 
palm  of  the  hand.  It  is  a  means  of  relieving  pain  when  rubbed  on  the 
joints  in  acute  rheumatism,  but  caution  must  be  observed  not  to  apply 
it  upon  a  raw  or  blistered  surface,  as  it  is  readily  absorbed  under  those 
circumstances. 

In  neuralgic  pains,  a  piece  of  lint  soaked  in  belladonna  liniment  and 
laid  on  to  the  skin  will  often  give  relief. 

Leeching. — When  leeches  have  to  be  applied,  the  part  should  first 
be  carefully  cleansed  and  washed  over  with  milk-and-water  before  they 
are  applied.  If  the  leeches  are  then  held  in  a  wineglass  or  box  over  the 
part  to  which  they  are  to  be  applied,  they  will  readily  bite,  as  they  will 
be  confined  to  a  limited  space. 

For  the  stanching  of  leech-bites  see  Surgical  Haemorrhage. 

Care  should  be  taken  in  applying  leeches  that  they  be  applied  over  a 
surface  that  has  bone  beneath,  so  that  pressure  can  be  borne  in  endea- 
vouring to  stanch  the  bleeding. 

The  bleeding  from  leech-bites  should,  as  a  rule,  be  checked  or 
stopped  as  soon  as  they  leave  their  hold.     This  is  particularly  to  be 


Management  of  the  Sick-room,  etc.  487 


observed  with  children,  as  they  are  prone  to  bleed  a  good  deal  ;  indeed, 
so  obstinate  and  difficult  to  stop  are  children's  leech-bites,  that  we  should 
seldom  advise  their  use. 

The  Nurse. — It  is  not  always  possible  to  meet  with  a  well-trained 
nurse,  even  in  a  large  town,  while  for  those  who  are  likely  to  consult  the 
pages  of  this  book  it  may  be  an  impossibility  to  meet  with  a  professed 
nurse  of  any  kind.  The  hints  here  given  are  therefore  addressed  to  those 
who  may  be  compelled  to  be  both  nurse  and  doctor,  and  who  in  either 
capacity  may  be  beyond  the  reach  of  professional  or  other  aid. 

Cheerfulness  and  forgetfulness  of  self  are  prime  requisites  in  the  cha- 
racter of  the  woman  who  undertakes  the  duties  of  a  nurse.  Illness  makes 
people  selfish,  therefore  it  is  the  more  necessary  that  there  should  be  un- 
selfishness to  cope  with  this  weakness. 

A  nurse  should  secure  quietness  in  the  sick-room,  and  should  permit 
only  cheerful  conversation — if  possible,  not  too  much  of  that.  In  acute 
affections  of  the  brain  this  is  a  point  of  the  highest  importance.  In 
haemoptysis,  or  "  spitting  of  blood,"  strict  silence  must  be  enjoined  upon 
the  patient,  who  should  make  use  of  a  pencil  for  questions  or  answers. 

The  nurse  should  carefully  avoid  the  narration  of  doleful  tales  of  fear- 
ful cases  she  has  seen  or  heard  of,  as  these  depress  the  patient  and  inter- 
fere with  recovery. 

Directions  for  the  management  of  the  patient,  given  by  those  who 
are  responsible  for  the  well-doing  of  each  case,  should  be  strictly  attended 
to  by  the  nurse. 

In  all  severe  cases  of  illness,  such  as  fevers,  inflammations,  accidents, 
etc.,  a  written  memorandum  should  be  kept  of  each  time  of  taking  food, 
wine,  medicine,  etc.,  with  their  precise  quantities.  Without  a  check  of 
this  kind  it  is  very  easy  to  give  too  much  or  too  little,  or  to  transgress 
directions  as  to  time. 

It  need  hardly  be  remarked  that  sobriety  is  absolutely  indispensable 
in  a  nurse.  This  requisite  is  at  once  admitted ;  but  many  persons  do, 
through  false  kindness,  their  very  best  to  banish  temperance  from  the  sick- 
room. They  will  leave  wine  and  spirit  bottles  open  in  the  room,  and 
expect  that  they  shall  not  be  touched.  Until  nurses  in  general  shall  have 
earned  a  much  higher  character  than  is  at  present  the  case,  it  is  safer  net 
to  put  temptation  in  the  way. 

Caution  in  Use  of  Stimulants. — Another  point  in  reference  to  this 
same  subject  may  be  mentioned.  When  stimulants  are  advisable  for 
illness,  great  care  must  be  taken  not  only  that  they  are  judiciously 
administered  as  to  present  quantity,  but  that  they  are  discontinued  with 
regard  to  future  consequences,  when  no  longer  wanted  for  immediate 
requirements. 


488 
CHAPTER  II. 

BATHS      AND      BATHING. 

IN  infancy,  bathing  or  washing  at  least  twice  a  day  is  necessary  to  pre* 
serve  the  skin  in  a  healthy  condition.  In  so  doing,  however,  care  must 
be  taken  that  the  surface  of  the  body  be  not  chilled  ;  a  judicious  warmth 
(avoiding  too  great  heat)  should  be  studied.  In  the  early  weeks  of  life  the 
body  does  not  readily  maintain  its  own  temperature — hence  the  reason 
that  the  young  of  animals  remain  a  certain  time  constantly  near  their 
mother.  It  is  the  same  with  our  infants  ;  no  warmth  is  so  equable  or  so 
good  for  them  during  the  few  first  days  or  weeks  of  life  as  the  warmth  of 
their  mother,  hence  also  the  necessity  for  a  warm  bath  as  the  means  of 
cleanliness. 

A  fallacy  lurks  in  the  notion  of  hardening  children.  The  argument 
in  favour  of  the  attempt  so  to  do,  drawn  from  the  "  state  of  nature,"  is 
altogether  a  dangerous  fallacy.  All  that  can  really  be  said  in  its  favour 
is,  that  it  is  not  possible  to  kill  all  the  children  submitted  to  the  system. 
The  delicate  ones  will  be  sifted  out,  and  the  hardy  ones  will  survive  in 
spite  of  "  system."  It  is  an  error  in  reasoning  to  quote  the  savage 
state  as  that  of  nature,  and  therefore  worthy  of  imitation.  It  may  be 
urged  with  greater  force  that  the  nature  of  man's  mental  endowments 
tends  to  raise  him  from  the  savage  to  the  civilized  state.  The  natural 
state  of  man  is  that  of  civilization,  with  its  attendant  fostering  care  of 
infantile  existence. 

Sponge  Bath. — In  after-life  the  daily  sponge  bath  contributes  greatly 
to  the  preservation  of  health,  by  the  promotion  of  cleanliness  and 
by  the  exhilarating  influence  in  stimulating  the  circulation  of  the  blood 
on  the  surface  of  the  body.  The  warmth  of  reaction  is  more  sure  to 
follow  if  the  bath  be  used  on  rising,  while  the  body  is  still  warm,  and 
before  the  surface  is  chilled  by  exposure  in  dressing.  In  using  this,  a  due 
regard  to  the  feelings  should  be  observed.  Some  persons  are  extremely 
sensitive  to  cold,  while  others  enjoy  its  reaction  and  bracing  influence. 
The  temperature  of  the  water  should,  therefore,  be  regulated  by  the 
climate,  weather,  and  individual  susceptibility. 

After  sponging,  the  whole  body  should  be  briskly  dried  with  a  rough 
towel,  and  a  glow  of  warmth  will  follow. 

Cold  Bath.  (Temperature  500  to  60°)  —  A  cold  bath  will  vary  in 
its  effects  according  as  it  is  taken  in  a  small  bath,  or  in  a  river,  the  sea,  or 
a  quantity  of  water  large  enough  for  swimming,  and  according  to  the 
temperature  of  the  air.  The  benefit  to  be  derived  from  a  cold  bath  is 
governed  also  pretty  much  by  the  state  of  health  of  the  bather,  or  on  the 
greater  or  less  vigour  of  the  heart's  action,  and  of  the  circulation  in  the 
skin.  A  cold  bath  should  not  be  taken  with  a  cold  skin  ;  the  best  prepa- 
ration is  the  warm  glow  of  exercise.  A  plunge  (head  first)  into  cold  water, 
even  when  hot  and  perspiring  after  exercise,  and  a  good  swim  for  a  few 
minutes,  is  more  surely  followed  by  healthful  reaction  than  the  waiting 
until  the  body  is  dry  and  cool,  or  perhaps  chilled  by  evaporation  of  per- 
spiration.    A  cold  bath  without  the  active  exercise  of  swimming  should 


Baths  and  Bathing.  489 


not  be  prolonged  beyond  three  or  four  minutes  ;  even  the  good  swimmer 
must  be  warned  that  prolonged  action  of  cold  incurs  the  risk  of  cramp. 

Persons  in  impaired  state  of  health  should  take  little  more  than  a 
single  immersion,  and  this  should  be  followed  by  friction  of  the  surface 
with  towels  or  dry  flannels.  Such  persons  should  avoid  bathing  on  an 
empty  stomach  ;  it  is  better  not  to  take  a  cold  bath  immediately  after  a 
meal. 

The  answer  to  questions  on  the  advisability  of  cold  bathing,  whether 
in  the  sea  or  otherwise,  is  to  be  found  in  the  state  of  the  pulse  and  of  the 
skin.  With  a  feeble  pulse  and  a  disposition  to  palpitation  of  the  heart, 
the  flow  of  blood  through  the  skin  is  sure  to  be  tardy,  as  compared  with 
that  of  health,  and  reaction  will  consequently  be  slowly  established  at  the 
risk  of  congestion  of  internal  organs.  Hence,  in  persons  disposed  towards 
head,  or  heart,  or  lung  affections,  great  caution  should  be  exercised. 
Persons  who  are  subject  to  palpitation  of  the  heart,  giddiness,  etc.,  had 
better  avoid  the  cold  bath. 

Generally,  it  may  be  laid  down  as  a  rule  that  if  cold  bathing  be  :.ot 
followed  by  a  glow  of  warmth  on  the  skin,  it  should  not  be  repeated. 

About  two  or  three  hours  after  a  meal  is  the  best  time  for  cold 
bathing. 

The  Tepid  Bath  (temperature  70°  to  8oc)  is  suitable  for  those 
whose  health,  or  sensitiveness  to  cold,  forbids  the  use  of  the  cold  bath. 
The  same  rules,  however,  apply,  especially  as  regards  the  delicate  in 
health. 

The  Hot  Bath  (temperature  980  to  no°)  differs  from  the  cold  or  tepid 
bath,  inasmuch  as  they  are  preservative  of  health,  while  this  is  curative 
of  disease. 

It  opens  the  pores  of  the  skin,  relaxes  the  muscles,  soothes  the  ner- 
vous system,  and  (after  its  first  stimulation  of  the  heart's  action  is  past) 
is  a  valuable  agent  in  reducing  fever  and  inflammatory  action  by  the  pro- 
fuse perspiration  that  it  induces — so  much  so,  that  it  is  often  an  efficacious 
remedy  in  the  treatment  of  inflammation. 

In  the  convulsions  of  infancy,  the  hot  bath,  continued  from  five  to  ten 
minutes,  is  an  important  part  of  the  treatment. 

In  order  to  avoid  any  possible  risk  of  the  sudden  immersion  in  hot 
water,  it  is  a  safe  plan  to  have  the  bath  at  about  950  to  begin  with,  and 
gradually  raise  the  temperature  to  ioo°,  or  even  1050  if  profuse  perspira- 
tion afterwards  be  desired ;  in  this  case,  the  bath  may  be  continued  by 
an  adult  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour.  On  coming  out  of  the  bath, 
after  rapidly  wiping  the  surface  of  the  body,  a  warm  blanket  should  be 
wrapped  round  before  getting  into  a  warm  bed. 

When  it  is  desirable  to  give  a  hot  bath  to  a  child  for  any  febrile 
malady,  cv  in  any  case  where  the  child  would  be  frightened  at  being  put 
into  the  water,  its  fears  may  be  disarmed  by  covering  the  bath  with  a 
blanket,  and  letting  the  little  patient  down  gently  into  the  bath. 

Vapour  Bath  (ioo°  to  1200)  is  of  great  use  in  exciting  perspiration 
in  catarrh,  in  simple  fever,  and  in  rheumatism.  It  may  be  extemporized 
by  sitting  on  a  chair  enclosed  in  a  blanket,  and  having  a  pail  of  hot 
water  placed  under  the  chair,  adding  to  the  water  some  red-hot  stones,  or 
brick,  or  iron  chain.  If  a  long  pipe  can  be  connected  with  the  spout  of 
a  large  kettle,  and  made  to  pass  within  the  blanket,  it  affords  a  ready 
means  of  making  a  vapour  bath. 


49°  Sleep. 

Hot-air  Bath.  (Temperature  ioo°  to  1200.) — This  acts  in  the  same 
way  as  a  vapour  bath.  It  is  readily  made  by  burning  some  spirits  of 
wine  under  the  canopy  of  blanket.  A  convenient  mode  is,  after  the 
patient  is  seated  and  covered  up  to  the  throat  with  blanket,  to  place  an 
ounce  of  spirits  of  wine  in  a  cup,  the  cup  standing  in  a  basin  with  some 
water,  then  light  the  spirit  and  let  it  burn  out. 

The  Tzirkish  Bath,  a  combination  of  these,  is  useful  in  rheumatic 
and  other  chronic  diseases,  but  requires  to  be  used  for  medical  purposes 
only  under  medical  advice. 

Hydropathy  professes  the  cure  of  disease  by  baths  of  various 
kinds.  It  can  only  be  properly  practised  in  establishments  especially 
devoted  thereto.  It  is  expensive,  and  therefore  only  within  the  reach  of 
comparatively  few. 

CHAPTER  III. 

SLEEP. 

No  rule  can  be  observed  with  regard  to  the  proportion  of  time  that  should 
be  given  to  sleep.  Much  depends  upon  individual  habit  and  disposition. 
The  active  mind  and  cheerful  disposition  that  is  never  more  happy  than 
when  busily  employed,  and  finds  its  recreation  in  change  of  work,  will 
generally  sleep  soundly  and  be  refreshed  by  six  or  seven  hours'  sleep. 
Less  than  this  cannot  safely  be  devoted  to  sleep  by  any  one  who  does  a 
good  day's  work,  either  bodily  or  mental.  There  have  been  those  who  could 
abridge  their  hours  of  sleep  to  four,  three,  or  even  two  hours  out  of  the 
twenty-four,  but  they  paid  the  penalty  of  such  an  infringement  of  nature's 
laws  by  shortening  the  number  of  their  days,  and  embittering  them  by 
the  impairment  of  health. 

The  daily  wear  and  tear  of  life  needs  the  restoration  of  sleep  to  ensure 
the  healthy  balance  of  nervous  power,  and  that  equanimity  of  mind  so 
desirable  in  this  world's  strife  and  turmoil. 

Shakspeare  was  alive  to  the  value  of  sound,  healthy  sleep  when  he 
made  Caesar  say — 

"  Let  me  have  men  about  me  that  are  fat; 

Sleek-headed  men,  and  such  as  sleep  o'  nights. 

Yond'  Cassius  has  a  lean  and  hungry  look; 

He  thinks  too  much  ;  such  men  are  dangerous." 

Infants  and  children  require  more  sleep  than  grown-up  persons.  In 
fact  the  early  days  of  infancy  are  passed  in  sleeping,  to  the  infant's  great 
gain.  If  otherwise  its  health  soon  suffers,  and  shows  the  want  of  "  balmy 
sleep."  Warmth,  sleep,  and  food  are  all  that  are  wanted  in  early  infancy. 
For  the  first  three  or  four  years  the  mid-day  "  nap"  contributes  to  the 
vigour  and  activity  of  the  young  child. 

Throughout  childhood  up  to  youth  from  twelve  to  fourteen  hours' 
sleep  is  not  an  undue  allowance.  At  all  events,  if  less  time  be  ac- 
corded for  sleep,  "  early  to  bed"  is  a  golden  maxim.  The  practice  of 
allowing  infants  and  young  children  to  be  awake  and  up  until  ten  or 
eleven  o'clock  at  night,  amid  the  glare  of  lights,  and  perhaps  the  noise 
and  excitement  of  festivity,  is  the  most  injudicious  sort  of  kindness  to 
ivhich  they  can  be  exposed. 


49i 
CHAPTER   IV. 

CLIMATE. 

This  word  embraces  the  consideration  of  many  topics  which  our  limits 
forbid  our  touching  upon  ;  but  as  the  present  work  will  doubtless  be  read 
in  all  parts  of  the  world  (at  least  such  is  our  hope),  it  would  be  incomplete 
without  a  few  remarks  in  relation  to  the  causation  and  treatment  of  disease. 

The  Effects  of  Change  of  Climate. — An  inhabitant  of  a  temperate 
climate  going  to  a  tropical  country  will  suffer  from  excitement  of  the  nervous 
and  vascular  systems,  by  the  heat  and  moisture  of  the  air.  The  respira- 
tory functions  become  less  active ;  while  there  is  a  decrease  of  the  ordinary 
action  of  the  kidneys  in  carrying  off  the  refuse  matters  of  the  circulation. 
The  consequence  of  which  is  that  the  skin  and  the  liver  have  an  excess 
of  work  thrown  upon  them  (to  speak  metaphorically,  and  also  exactly), 
in  order  to  rid  the  system  of  certain  effete  elements  which  the  lungs  can- 
not throw  off. 

Hence  the  "  seasoning  fevers,"  as  they  are  called,  and  the  disorders  of 
the  liver,  to  which  Europeans  are  specially  liable  on  arrival  in  a  hot  climate, 
and  to  which  full  often  they  render  themselves  the  more  obnoxious  by  in- 
judicious diet. 

Europeans  visiting  hot  climates  should  live  abstemiously,  taking  every 
means  to  promote  the  functions  of  the  skin  by  moderate  exercise  and  by 
daily  free  ablutions.  Exposure  of  the  head  to  the  heat  of  the  sun  should 
be  carefully  avoided,  as  well  as  the  risk  of  contracting  fever  by  exposure  to 
dews,  the  cold,  and  the  malaria  of  the  night  air.  Warm  clothing  should 
be  worn  at  night  by  new-comers,  as  the  extremes  of  day  and  night  tem- 
perature in  tropical  regions  often  pass  through  a  very  wide  range. 

The  effects  of  a  warm  and  moist  climate  upon  the  inhabitants  of  colder 
regions,  in  decreasing  the  functional  activity  of  the  lungs  and  increasing 
that  of  the  liver  and  skin,  has  formed  the  basis  of  the  recommendation  of 
a  change  from  a  cold  to  a  warm  climate  in  pulmonary  affections.  It  is, 
however,  very  doubtful  whether  the  relaxing  and  enervating  influence  of  the 
heat  on  the  nervous  system  does  not  more  than  counterbalance  this  func- 
tional compensation.  Certainly,  when  disease  in  the  lungs  has  advanced 
much,  more  harm  than  good  generally  comes  of  the  migration.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  tonic  and  bracing  effect  of  a  cold  climate  more  frequently 
checks  the  advance  of  consumption  if  care  is  taken  to  protect  the  surface 
from  sudden  chills,  and  so  to  protect  it  as  to  ensure  a  free  circulation  of 
the  blood  in  the  skin  by  active  out-door  exercise.  Our  British  Hippocrates, 
Sydenham,  was  wont  to  call  horse  exercise  the  "  palmarium  remedy  "  for 
consumption,  so  strongly  was  he  convinced  of  the  importance  of  out-door 
exercise.  A  confirmation  of  this  opinion  is  to  be  found  in  the  fact  that 
coachmen  (if  temperate  men)  are  among  the  healthiest  classes.  In  the 
days  when  locomotion  was  performed  more  on  horseback  than  is  now  the 
case,  it  was  said  that  "bagmen,"  or  commercial  travellers,  enjoyed  a  sin- 
gular freedom  from  consumption.  Unfortunately,  however,  these  men, 
then  as  now,  too  often  threw  away  their  better  heath  by  their  irregularities 
in  other  directions. 

While  the  stress  of  the  effects  of  removal  to  warm  climates  upon  the 
inhabitants  of  temperate  regions  is  thus  seen  to  fall  upon  the  liver  and 


49 2  Climate. 


skin,  the  reverse  is  seen  to  occur  when  the  natives  of  hot  climates  migrate 
to  colder  countries.  The  negro,  brought  direct  from  Africa  to  England, 
will  almost  surely  be  the  victim  of  consumption. 

Between  these  extremes  there  are  shades  of  tolerance  of  the  change, 
which  may  be  acquired  by  making  the  change  gradually,  by  an  inter- 
mediate residence  in  regions  more  temperate  but  less  cold.  Dr.  Copland 
writes  :  "  The  native  of  Africa  who  removes  immediately  to  Europe 
seldom  lives  more  than  two  winters  in  it ;  whereas  the  negro  who  has  been 
brought  to  the  West  Indies,  and  subsequently  to  the  Southern  States  of 
North  America,  previously  to  his  arrival  in  more  northern  countries,  and 
enjoys  necessary  food  and  clothing,  will  often  not  suffer  materially  from  the 
change."  In  these  few  words  lies  the  secret  of  protection,  to  a  very  great 
extent,  from  the  effects  of  change  of  climate— "necessary  food  and 
clothing."  Only  the  necessary  food  ;  not  the  excessive  and  superabun- 
dant supply  of  the  heating  and  stimulating  food  that  is  too  frequently  in- 
dulged in  by  Europeans  in  hot  climates. 

An  important  point  to  be  borne  in  mind  on  the  question  of  change 
of  climate,  is  so  to  time  it  as  to  assimilate  as  much  as  may  be  the 
characters  of  the  climate  ;  to  diminish  the  effects  of  the  extreme  diver- 
sity of  the  regions  left  or  visited  ;  to  go  from  the  cold  season  of  the  one 
to  the  warm  season  of  the  other,  or  the  reverse.  For  an  European 
returning  after  a  long  residence  in  a  hot  climate,  it  is  wise  to  break  the 
change  by  a  short  preparatory  residence  in  the  warmer  parts  of  Europe — 
such  as  the  south  of  France  or  the  south-western  coast  of  England. 

The  mildness  and  uniformity  of  the  climate  of  the  southern  and 
south-western  counties  of  England  render  them  available  for  the  change 
of  air  so  commonly  sought  by  invalids  during  the  winter  months.  The 
access  of  a  portion  of  the  gulf  stream  to  our  southern  and  western  coasts 
renders  them  mild,  warm,  and  moist.  The  amount  of  rainfall  at  Pen- 
zance is  double  that  of  London.  The  daily  range  of  the  thermometer  is 
less  ;  it  rarely  falls  so  low  in  the  night,  nor  rises  so  high  in  the  daytime 
as  in  the  midland,  northern,  and  eastern  counties.  Thus,  in  the  hottest 
summer,  when  the  heat  in  London  is  almost  intolerable,  the  temperature 
is  moderated  by  the  sea  breezes,  and  is  often  quite  bearable  on  the  coasts 
of  our  southern  counties. 

Without  attempting  details  which  would  carry  us  beyond  our 
limits,  we  may  briefly  state  that  the  more  sheltered  the  situation,  and  the 
more  equable  the  climate  of  any  place,  the  better  it  is  adapted  for  the 
out-of-door  exercise  so  important  for  pulmonary  affections,  and  beneficial 
for  chronic  inflammatory  complaints,  with  deficient  secretion  from  the 
mucous  surface.  The  drier  atmosphere  and  more  bracing  air  of  exposed 
positions — such  as  of  our  eastern  and  north-eastern  coasts — are  adapted 
to  nervous  affections  and  states  of  debility,  accompanied  with  profuse  dis- 
charges. 

The  change  of  climate  must  therefore  be  guided  by  these  several  condi- 
tions both  of  place  and  person,  and  may  further  require  to  be  altered 
according  to  the  changes  of  the  seasons,  and  according  to  the  special 
character  of  the  season  itself.  Thus,  it  not  unfrequently  happens  that 
the  south  coast  of  England  is  not  suitable  for  invalids,  even  so  late  as 
June,  if  easterly  winds  prevail.  The  air  is  then  almost  as  keen  as  that  oi 
the  directly  eastern  coast,  and  a  return  inland  becomes  inevitable. 


Climate.  493 


British  and  Foreign  Cli?nates  i?i  relation  to  Disease. — To  enable  the 
reader  to  select  the  climate  most  suitable  to  the  requirements  of  the 
particular  case  he  may  have  in  view,  we  shall  enumerate  the  diseases  for 
which  change  is  most  frequently  sought,  and,  by  the  help  of  the  invaluable 
treatise  of  Sir  James  Clarke,  endeavour  to  direct  his  choice. 

Consumption. — In  this  disease,  change  of  climate,  to  be  productive  of  real 
benefit,  must  be  tried  at  a  much  earlier  period  than  is  generally  done,  as 
it  is  often  delayed  a  year  or  two  after  the  period  that  any  good  can  be 
expected,  and  the  result  is  that  more  harm  than  good  is  done  thereby. 
Hence  the  trial  is  often  not  made  through  the  discredit  that  arises  out  of 
its  misapplication.  It  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  consumption  is  not 
merely  a  disease  of  the  lungs,  but  a  general  morbid  constitutional  condi- 
tion of  which  the  disease  in  the  lungs  is  but  a  manifestation.  The  early 
treatment  must  therefore  be  directed  to  invigorating  the  system  and 
improving  the  quality  of  the  blood.  With  these  objects  the  climates  most 
suitable  for  winter  residence  are  those  of  our  southern  coast,  Madeira, 
Nice,  Pisa,  and  Rome,  with  removal  during  summer  months  to  the 
drier  situations  of  our  own  islands. 

Chronic  bronchitis  is  an  affection  that  is  often  mistaken  for  consump- 
tion, and  one  which,  through  its  persistence  and  its  debilitating  and  emacia- 
ting effects,  constitutes  a  veritable  decline.  The  change  from  a  cold  and 
moist  to  a  mild  and  dry  air  relieves  the  morbid  conditions  of  the  mucous 
surfaces. 

The  same  climates  that  are  of  service  in  consumption  are  beneficial  in 
chronic  bronchitis.  When  asthma  is  combined  with  chronic  bronchitis, 
it  is  also  relieved  by  the  same  climate  as  is  found  useful  in  chronic  con- 
sumption. Torquay  and  Undercliff,  for  example,  are  most  adapted  to 
irritable  states  of  the  mucous  membrane  without  much  secretion ; 
Clifton  or  Brighton  for  those  in  which  expectoration  is  profuse  and  the 
system  debilitated  ;  Rome,  Pisa,  Madeira,  are  suited  for  the  latter  class  of 
cases,  Nice  to  the  former. 

Chronic  Rheumatism  is  benefited  by  residence  in  a  warm  climate, 
such  as  the  south-western  coasts  of  England,  the  south  of  France, 
Rome,  and  Pisa. 

Gout  also  derives  benefit  by  a  warm  climate.  The  West  India 
islands  are  especially  marked  in  this  respect. 

Dyspepsia  and  nervous  affections  connected  therewith  are  aggra- 
vated by  a  cold  and  damp  atmosphere,  and  are  greatly  relieved  by 
change  to  a  drier  and  warmer  climate  ;  but  great  care  in  dieting  is  need- 
ful in  order  to  ensure  the  full  benefit  of  the  change.  The  use  of  stimu- 
lants must  be  very  cautiously  watched.  The  nervous  symptoms  asso- 
ciated with  dyspepsia  are  prone  to  take  on  the  form  of  hypochondriasis  ; 
the  change  of  climate  should  therefore  be  accompanied  with  change  of 
occupation  and  of  amusement.  This  class  of  cases  rapidly  improve 
under  change  of  scene,  and  the  relinquishment  of  the  cares  of 'business, 
to  say  nothing  of  "  throwing  physic  to  the  dogs." 


494 
CHAPTER   V. 

DIET   IN    RELATION   TO   DISEASE. 

In  acute  diseases  the  diet  should  generally  be  of  the  simplest  and  lightest 
kind,  such  as  beef-tea  or  mutton-broth,  sago,  tapioca,  arrowroot,  or  gruel, 
with,  at  the  same  time,  some  little  respect  paid  to  the  palate. 

Due  regard,  however,  must  be  paid  to  the  general  character  and  con- 
dition of  the  constitution.  For  instance,  acute  disease  may  occur  in  a 
very  debilitated  state  of  the  health,  and  then  may  require  the  addition  to 
the  above  of  some  alcoholic  stimulant. 

The  stomach  in  such  cases  would  not  be  able  to  digest  solid  food. 
The  absence  of  this  must  be  supplied  by  soups,  broths,  eggs,  etc. 

In  the  feeding  of  invalids,  even  children,  some  attention  may  be  paid 
to  their  cravings  after  particular  articles.  It  will  often  be  found  that  the 
thing  longed  for  is  not  injurious,  and  may  be  even  called  for  in  obedience 
to  some  indication  by  nature.  The  following  incident  may  serve  to  illus- 
trate this  observation.  A  child  of  about  four  or  five  years  old  was  suffer- 
ing under  diphtheria,  and  had  got  to  refuse  the  port- wine  and  beef-tea  that 
had  been  ordered  it.  It  seemed  that  there  was  nothing  for  it  but  that 
the  child  must  die  from  starvation  and  diphtheria  together.  One  day 
she  woke  up  from  a  nap  and  saw  a  glass  of  ale  which  was  being  drunk  by 
its  mother  with  her  luncheon.  This  ale  the  child  cried  for,  but  the 
mother  feared  to  allow  her  to  drink.  When  appealed  to  the  medical 
attendant  said,  "  By  all  means  let  the  child  have  it ;  and  even  put  it  in  her 
way  that  she  may  take  it  herself  without  let  or  hindrance."  The  next 
time  the  child  woke  up  she  eagerly  clutched  at  the  malt  liquor,  and  drank 
off  a  tumblerful.  From  that  moment  she  began  to  mend,  and  for  the 
next  forty-eight  hours  persistently  refused  everything  else,  either  as  food 
or  medicine,  and  eventually  made  a  good  recovery. 

When  the  disease,  though  acute,  is  of  a  less  severe  character,  and  is 
not  stamped  with  extreme  debility,  the  stomach  will  tolerate  light  solids, 
such  as  white  fish,  fowls,  bread,  rice,  light  puddings,  and.cme  pulpy  fruit 
and  vegetables  may  be  taken  with  advantage,  as  the  acid  allays  thirst. 

In  chronic  disease  a  fuller  diet  is  required,  comprising  meat,  with  some 
stimulant. 

Milk. — Milk  is  the  most  important  article  of  diet  in  infancy,  and  is 
also  both  nutritious  and  digestible  in  diseases  of  adult  life.  A  prejudice 
exists  in  the  minds  of  many  persons  to  the  effect  that  milk  is  not  easily 
digested.  The  opinion  is,  however,  at  once  refuted  by  the  fact  that  it 
forms  the  nourishment  of  infants  and  of  young  animals  of  all  kinds.  Cow's 
milk,  however,  is  sometimes  unsuited  to  the  stomachs  of  infants  brought 
up  by  hand,  or,  from  its  richness  in  oil  and  curd,  to  the  stomachs  of  per- 
sons enfeebled  by  disease.  The  best  substitute  that  can  be  used  is  asses' 
or  goat's  milk.     The  latter,  however,  is  richer  than  the  former. 

Swiss  Milk. — Avery  good  form  of  milk  is  the  "  Swiss"  or  "  Aylesbury" 
milk,  which  consists  of  pure  milk  evaporated  clown  to  a  syrup,  and 
thickened  and  preserved  with  honey.  It  keeps  well  in  tins,  and  even 
for  a  short  time  after  it  has  been  opened. 


Diet  in  Relation  to  Disease.  495 

For  the  first  three  or  four  months  of  an  infant's  life  the  best  food  is 
nurses-milk  alone.  If  for  any  reason  this  cannot  be  given,  asses'  milk  is 
the  best  substitute.  Next  to  this  cow's  milk,  diluted  with  an  equal  pro- 
portion of  water  in  which  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar-of-milk 
has  been  dissolved.  Cow's  milk  differs  from  human  milk  in  its  excess  of 
cream  and  curd.  The  cream  consists  almost  wholly  of  oil  globules.  The 
addition  of  a  solution  of  sugar-of-milk  reduces  it  in  one  direction,  and 
raises  it  in  another,  to  the  level  of  human  milk  :  thus,  sugar-of-milk  con- 
tains all  the  saline  matters  of  the  milk  from  which  it  was  made  ;*  there- 
fore, by  its  addition  (with  water)  to  cow's  milk,  while  the  curd  and  oil  are 
diluted,  the  deficiency  of  the  salts  is  supplied,  and  thereby  its  composition 
is  as  nearly  as  possible  equalized  or  assimilated  one  to  the  other. 

Most  infants  will  thrive  well  on  this  hand-feeding,  but  there  are  two 
points  of  essential  importance  to  its  success.  One  is  the  giving  the  food 
with  regularity.  For  the  first  two  or  three  weeks  the  child  should  be  fed 
every  two  hours  during  the  day,  and  once  or  twice  in  the  course  of  the 
night.     The  interval  should  gradually  be  lengthened  after  the  month. 

The  same  rule  as  to  time  should  be  observed,  whatever  be  the  food, 
whether  breast-milk  or  any  substitute. 

Feeding-bottles  objectionable. — The  next  point,  and  one  (if  possible) 
more  important,  is  that  the  feeding-bottle  should  be  most  scrupulously 
cleaned  each  time  immediately  after  feeding,  or  small  quantities  of 
milk  remaining  in  the  tube  or  teat  will  become  sour.  The  minutest 
particle  of  sour  milk  taken  into  the  stomach  with  the  other  will  act  after 
the  manner  of  a  ferment,  and  favour  the  turning  sour  of  the  whole 
quantity. 

It  should,  however,  here  be  noted,  that  it  does  not  follow  that  because 
when  a  child  vomits  its  milk  it  is  found  curdled,  that  therefore  the 
whole  has  been  sour  at  the  time  of  taking  it.  The  first  step  in  the 
digestion  of  the  milk  is  that  it  is  curdled  by  the  gastric  juice  of  the 
stomach,  and  afterwards  dissolved  by  it.  This  process,  however,  is  very 
different  from  the  curdling  of  milk  by  its  having  turned  sour  out  of  the 
stomach,  and  it  has  a  very  different  result  in  the  process  of  digestion. 

For  the  reason  above-stated  the  writer  entertains  a  strong  objection  to 
the  use  of  feeding-bottles  with  the  long  india-rubber  tubes  attached  to 
the  teat.  It  is  almost  an  impossibility  to  wash  out  the  tube  after  use  ;  at 
all  events,  as  a  matter  of  fact  it  too  often  is  only  half  washed,  and  -so  the 
milk  gets  turned. 

There  is  another  grave  objection  to  these  tubes — they  engender  and 
foster  idleness  on  the  part  of  the  nurse.  It  is  a  common  practice  to  put 
an  infant  into  its  bed  or  cradle,  with  the  teat  in  its  mouth  and  the  bottle 
in  bed,  and  there  to  leave  it  to  suckle  itself  to  sleep  ;  which  it  generally 
does,  sucking  the  while  even  after  it  has  fallen  asleep  and  its  bottle  is 
emptied.    The  child  goes  on  sucking  at  the  tube,  but  getting  no  food ;  the 


*  Sugar  of  milk  is  made  by  the  evaporation  of  the  wluy  of  cow's  milk  to  a 
sy rup,  and  its  subsequent  crystallization  in  the  same  way  as  sugar  candy  is  made. 
Sugar  of  milk  is  chemically  different  from  common  sugar,  and  does  not  undergo 
the  fermentation  that  the  latter  does.  This  furnishes  an  additional  reason  for  its 
employment. 


4g 6  Diet  in  Relation  to  Disease. 

infant,  in  popular  phrase,  "  sucks  in  wind."  If  it  does  not  exactly  suck 
the  wind,  its  fruitless  sucking  at  a  piece  of  india-rubber  keeps  up  secre- 
tion of  gastric  juice  in  the  stomach.  This,  having  no  food  to  act  upon, 
icts  abnormally  on  the  stomach  itself,  and  sets  up  various  disorders  of 
mat  organ  and  of  the  intestines.  Such  a  mode  of  nursing  is  little  better 
than  the  "Gampish"  trick  of  sticking  into  the  child's  mouth  a  raisin  in  a 
piece  of  muslin  to  "  keep  it  quiet."  They  are  alike  occasions  to  the  nurse 
to  evade  the  duty  of  really  hand-nursing  and  carrying  the  child  in  arms. 

Beef-tea  is  the  staple  of  existence  in  many  cases  of  illness  ;  it  is 
food  and  physic  both  in  some  fevers.  It  must  be  most  carefully  made, 
on  Liebig's  principles.  The  heat  employed  should  not  exceed  1 500.  A 
thermometer,  however,  is  not  commonly  at  hand,  but  the  meat  should  be 
cut  up  small  and  merely  covered  with  water,  in  a  bottle  or  jar,  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  cold  water,  near  a  fire,  so  as  not  to  allow  it  to  boil,  but  merely  to 
stew  for  three  or  four  hours.  The  fat  may  be  separated  by  allowing  it  to 
get  cold  and  them  skimming  it  off.  Mutton-broth  might  be  made  on  the 
same  plan,  and  would  be  more  nourishing  than  that  commonly  made. 

The  principle  on  which  this  kind  of  beef-tea  is  made  is  the  same  as 
that  on  which  Liebig's  Extract  of  Meat  should  be  prepared— viz.,  that  of 
extracting  the  albuminous  and  meaty  parts  without  extracting  the  gelatine, 
which  is  the  least  nutritious  element  of  meat. 

In  the  ordinary  way  of  making  beef- tea,  by  boiling  lumps  of  meat,  a 
strong  jelly  may  be  formed,  and  is  supposed  to  show  its  strength ;  but  each 
lump  is  really  case-hardened,  and  the  most  nourishing  part  locked  up  in 
each  piece.  The  explanation  is,  that  flesh  consists  largely  of  albumen, 
which  coagulates  at  1500  F.  ;  therefore  the  boiling  temperature,  21 2°  F., 
hardens  the  outer  part  at  once,  and  slowly  the  interior.  To  give 
a  culinary  illustration,  the  best  way  to  cook  a  boiled  joint  of  meat 
is  to  put  it  into  water  already  boiling,  and  continue  boiling  the  requisite 
time  ;  the  outside  is  at  once  hardened,  and  the  gravy  is  locked  up  inside. 

Eggs. — For  the  same  reason  the  white  of  eggs,  which  consists  wholly 
of  albumen,  is  a  most  excellent  medium  of  nutriment  where,  for  any  reason, 
beef-tea  cannot  be  given.  The  white  of  egg  stirred  into  cold  or  lukewarm 
milk  can  often  be  given  to  children  or  other  patients  who  refuse  beef-tea. 
It  is  tasteless  and  colourless,  therefore  its  presence  can  be  disguised ; 
whereas  the  yolk  of  egg  contains  fatty  matters  with  albumen,  and  is  easily 
recognised  by  the  child  both  from  its  colour  and  its  flavour. 

Water,  either  as  an  ordinary  article  of  diet  or  a  means  of  allaying 
the  thirst  in  febrile  states,  requires  that  great  care  shall  be  taken  to  ensure 
that  it  shall  be  free  from  impurities. 

The  most  dangerous  impurities  to  which  water  is  obnoxious  are 
gaseous  matters,  and  insoluble  animal  and  vegetable  matters. 

Gaseous  matters  and  vapours  are  readily  absorbed  by  water,  as  is  seen 
in  the  ordinary  experience  of  placing  a  basin  or  tub  of  water  in  a  newly- 
painted  room,  whereby  the  smell  of  the  paint  is  quickly  removed.  Water, 
by  reason  of  the  same  property,  should  never  be  drunk  from  a  cistern  into 
which  there  is  a  waste-pipe  having  a  direct  communication  with  a  drain 
or  reservoir.  The  poisonous  gases  arising  from  the  decomposing  sewage 
are  absorbed  by  the  water,  which  thus  becomes  the  vehicle  for  the  convey- 
ance of  the  poison  of  malignant  fevers. 

The  decomposing  animal  and  saline  matters  of  sewage  also  readily 


Diet  in  Relation  to  Disease.  497 


percolate  a  porous  soil ;  so  that  if  a  well  and  a  cesspool  be  near  one 
another,  as  is  often  the  case  both  in  town  and  country,  the  water  becomes 
the  channel  through  which  deadly  poison  is  carried. 

Rain  water  received  into  leaden  cisterns,  or  water  in  tanks  having 
leaden  pipes  leading  from  them,  is  often  contaminated  by  a  portion  of  that 
metal  becoming  oxidized  and  dissolved,  producing  colic  and  other  signs 
of  lead-poisoning. 

For  ordinary  domestic  purposes  water  is  classed  as  hard  or  soft. 
The  latter  is  rain  water  ;  the  former  spring  or  river  water.  These  vary 
much  in  their  degree  of  hardness,  as  may  readily  be  noticed  by  their 
behaviour  with  soap.  With  hard  water  the  soap  does  not  readily  make  a 
lather,  but  curdles  on  the  hand.  The  source  of  hardness  of  water  is  in  the 
lime  and  other  salts  that  are  dissolved  out  of  the  strata  of  the  earth  through 
which  it  has  passed.  These  may  be  separated  to  a  considerable  extent 
by  boiling,  or  by  the  addition  of  small  quantities  of  bicarbonate  of  soda. 
This  is  the  object  of  some  persons  who  put  a  small  portion  of  bicarbonate 
of  soda  into  the  teapot  when  making  tea. 

Insoluble  impurities  can  be  separated  by  Lipscomb's  filters,  or  by  any 
arrangement  by  which  it  is  made  to  pass  through  fine  sand  or  broken 
charcoal.  The  charcoal  has  the  property  of  absorbing  gases  from  water 
and  rendering  it  sweet  and'  pure. 

Pure  water  may  be  obtained  by  distillation  from  sea-water,  but  it  is 
always  a  difficult  process,  and  requires  an  elaborate  apparatus.  Nearly 
every  large  ship  has  now,  we  believe,  a  still  for  this  purpose  fitted  up  be- 
fore going  a  long  voyage. 

In  the  treatment  of  disease,  water  is  of  primary  importance,  as  it  allays 
thirst  and  fever  by  diluting  the  blood  and  giving  the  medium  by  which 
a  poison  may  be  eliminated  from  the  system.  In  fever  and  in  cholera 
thirst  is  often  the  one  great  complaint,  and  the  cry  is  for  water  !  water  ! 
This  indication  of  nature  may  safely  be  followed,  and  the  patient  allowed 
to  drink  as  freely  as  he  will. 

Water  is  the  chief  of  diuretics  ;  it  increases  the  secretion  of  urine,  and 
promotes  thereby  the  evacuation  of  effete  or  irritant  matters  from  the 
blood. 

Farinaceous  Foods. — Farinaceous  foods  should  be  cautiously  given  to 
young  infants.  Neither  the  secretion  of  the  saliva  in  the  mouth,  nor  of 
the  gastric  juice  in  the  stomach,  is  adapted  for  their  digestion. 

Among  the  farinaceous  foods  suitable  for  young  children  are  baked 
flour,  corn  flour,  biscuit  powder,  arrowroot,  ground  rice,  &c.  It  is  not 
possible  to  say  in  what  cases  each  of  these  may  be  most  suitable  ;  what 
may  be  easily  digested  by  one  child  may  not  agree  with  another,  or  with 
the  same  child  for  long  together. 

After  five  or  six  months  a  crust  may  be  given,  but  should  be  carefully 
watched. 

When  some  teeth  are  cut,  the  admixture  of  solids  may  occasionally 
be  permitted  ;  but  even  when  all  the  teeth  are  cut,  it  is  advisable  only  to 
give  meat  every  other  or  every  third  day.  Soups,  beef  tea,  &c,  may  be 
given  at  other  times. 

General  Diet. — It  is  scarcely  necessary  here  to  enter  upon  the  diet  for 
adults  in  health,  as  this  will  depend  very  much  upon  the  pursuits  and 
upon  the  inclinations  of  each.     It  is  well  known  that  those  who  work  hard 

K  K 


49  8  Diet  in  Relation  to  Disease. 

can  generally  eat  well  without  much  regard  to  what  is  put  before  them — 
"  Hunger  is  their  best  sauce." 

It  is  where  little  bodily  exertion  is  undergone,  and  perhaps  very  little 
brain  work  either,  that  the  appetite  is  apt  to  flag  and  to  require  pamper- 
ing :  it  is  in  such  cases  that  a  diet  beyond  the  plainest  and  lightest  is 
calculated  to  become  the  origin  of  disease. 

It  may  suffice  to  offer  a  few  remarks  on  the  digestibility  of  some 
articles  of  food  as  a  guide  to  invalids,  and  with  reference  to  the  diet 
recommended  under  the  several  headings  of  disease  in  the  following 
pages. 

It  may  be  stated  generally  that  beef  is  less  digestible  than  mutton, 
especially  for  persons  subject  to  dyspepsia.  Beef  is  more  easily  digested 
cold  than  hot  by  delicate  stomachs.  Both  these  meats  will  require 
upwards  of  three  hours  for  digestion.  Salt  beef  will  demand  twice  the 
time.  Veal,  lamb,  and  young  meat  generally  is  not  so  easy  of  digestion 
as  the  meat  of  animals  killed  at  maturer  age.  Pork  in  any  form  is  less 
readily  digested  than  other  meats. 

Fowls,  Poult?y,  Game,  though  generally  regarded  as  light  and 
digestible,  are  not  always  so  in  the  cases  of  the  invalid  or  the  convales- 
cent ;  they  are  not  wholly  digested  much  under  four  or  five  hours. 

Fish9  especially  the  white  sorts,  are  easy  of  digestion,  according  as 
they  are  plainly  cooked.  Salted  fish  are  more  slowly  digested  fish,  as 
also  are  those  that  are  fat,  such  as  salmon.  Much,  however,  depends 
upon  the  cooking,  and  of  the  adjuncts,  the  sauces,  etc. 

Melted  butter  is  usually  taken  with  fish,  but  is  better  omitted  when 
they  are  the  food  of  the  invalid.  Butter  when  melted,  or  prepared  in 
any  way  over  fire,  readily  becomes  altered  in  its  composition,  and  yields 
various  fatty  acids,  which  are  the  sources  of  indigestion.  This  is  more 
especially  the  case  with  pastry  such  as  short  pie-crust,  etc.  For  the 
delicate  stomach,  fish  cannot  be  too  plainly  and  simply  cooked  ;  under 
these  circumstances  they  form  a  light  and  nutritious  diet. 

Shell  Fish,  including  under  the  term  oysters,  mussels,  whelks, 
lobsters,  crabs,  are  all  more  or  less  difficult  of  digestion,  and  unsuitable 
for  invalids.  Oysters  are,  perhaps,  the  least  open  to  this  objection,  but 
they  require  three  or  four  hours'  digestion,  and  are  not  the  light  nourish- 
ment usually  supposed,  unless  very  carefully  cooked. 

Sweetbread  and  tripe  are  easy  of  digestion,  as  also  are  the  brains  of 
animals. 

Liver  and  kidneys  are  the  reverse  of  digestible. 

Ripe  Fruits  and  Vegetables  are  more  easily  digested  than  any  of 
the  preceding  articles ;  but  then,  as  they  consist  of  a  large  proportion 
of  water,  they  are  not  so  nourishing  as  animal  substances.  Vegeta- 
rians supplement  the  deficient  nutritive  qualities  of  vegetables  by  a 
liberal  allowance  of  animal  matter  in  the  shape  of  eggs  and  milk. 

Cheese,  being  almost  entirely  an  albuminous  substance,  contains  a 
very  large  amount  of  nutriment ;  but  from  this  element  being  combined 
with  the  fatty  acids  and  some  of  the  oily  constituents  of  milk,  it  is  not 
easily  digested  by  weak  stomachs  when  taken  alone.  It  nevertheless  is 
often  useful  in  promoting  the  digestion  of  other  food,  to  which  it  some- 
times acts  after  the  manner  of  a  ferment  when  taken  in  small  quantities  ; 
for  instance,  after  dinner. 


Diet  in  Relation  to  Disease.  499 

Sausages,  when  fresh,  are  not  unwholesome,  and  they  contain  a  large 
quantity  of  nourishment  in  a  compact  form. 

Alcoholic  Stimulants. — The  treatment  of  disease,  and  more  par- 
ticularly of  convalescence,  can  scarcely  be  conducted  without  the  ad- 
ministration of  stimulants  ;  but  it  is  obvious  that  it  should  be  accom- 
panied with  emphatic  caution  lest  the  use  grow  into  the  abuse  thereof. 
An  occasional  dose  may  soon  become  the  habitual  dram,  unless  self- 
denial  and  self-control  be  exercised. 

We  are  not  here  called  upon  to  follow  in  the  wake  of  those  who  feel 
it  their  duty  to  expose  the  errors  and  weaknesses  of  their  neighbours ; 
suffice  it  that  we  admit  that  in  all  directions  we  see  a  too  free  indulgence 
in  alcoholic  stimulation.  There  can  be  no  two  opinions  upon  that  point. 
There  is  no  amount  of  health  or  wealth  that  cannot  or  will  not  surely  be 
destroyed  by  any  one  who  determinedly  gives  himself  up  to  drink. 

As  has  been  said  over  and  over  again,  it  is  a  mistake  to  argue  against 
the  use  of  anything  from  its  misuse,  and  so  with  alcohol.  So  long  as  the 
cares  and  toils  of  life  are  what  they  are,  so  long  will  the  human  frame  be 
benefited  by  the  judicious  use  of  alcohol.  Common  sense  and  science 
combine  to  confirm  the  experience  of  good  and  wise  men  that  the  mode- 
rate use  of  alcoholic  stimulation  is  to  be  regarded  as  indispensable. 

The  extravagant  views  and  unsupported  assertions  of  the  "  teetotaller''" 
do  infinite  harm,  by  substituting  artificial  restraints  for  the  wholesome 
moral  influence  of  daily  practice  of  self-denial  and  close  watch  over  in- 
dulgence of  the  appetites. 

Abundant  reasoning  could  be  adduced  in  refutation  of  the  alleged 
effects  of  alcohol  were  this  the  place  to  bring  them  forward.  It  has  been 
repeated  as  a  stock  argument  by  indiscreet  advocates  of  the  teetotal 
movement  that  alcohol  is  not  food,  cannot  be  food  under  any  circum- 
stances or  conditions  whatever.  Experiment,  however,  contradicts  the 
allegation,  by  showing  that  alcohol  once  taken  into  the  animal  system  is 
never  again  recovered  as  alcohol  alone,  but  passes  out  again  like  all  other 
alimentary  substances  in  various  forms  of  combination  as  effete  refuse — 
e.g.,  carbonic  acid,  water,  urea,  etc.,  after — as  is  daily  to  be  seen  in  the 
case  of  the  inveterate  drunkard,  who  takes  nothing  else — having  served  to 
form  flesh  and  blood  and  diseased  structures.  Diseased  structures  re- 
quire a  pabulum  as  well  as  the  healthy  structure,  true  though  it  be  that 
the  better  nourished  the  more  surely  they  lead  to  death. 

The  man  who  cannot  be  persuaded  to  sobriety  by  the  instincts  of  self- 
preservation,  or  the  obligations  of  social  claims,  will  not  likely  be  deterred 
from  intemperance  by  extravagant  assertions  of  a  pseudo-scientific 
character.  Better  by  far  is  it  to  inculcate  lessons  of  morality  than 
lessons  of  false  science.  "  The  schoolmaster  is  abroad  "  now  in  earnest, 
and  we  may  indulge  a  confident  hope  that  as  education  spreads  multi- 
tudes will  learn  to  appreciate  the  virtue  of  sobriety,  without  being  scared 
by  the  hideous  phantoms  of  excited  imaginations. 

The  medicinal  uses  of  stimulants  are  most  found  in  chronic  disease, 
or  in  acute  disease  occurring  in  extremely  debilitated  states.  It  is 
grievously  to  be  lamented  that  the  medical  recommendation  of  stimulants 
is  not  always  sufficiently  guarded  and  watched.  There  has  been  of  late  a 
fashion  to  regard  and  to  teach  that  all  disease  proceeds  from  debility,  and 
therefore  that  it  must  be  treated  with  alcoholic  stimulants.     Allowing 

K  K   2 


5°°  Diet  in  Relation  to  Disease. 


(which  we  do  not)  that  such  might  be  the  case,  yet  the  inference  that 
alcohol  is  the  remedy  is  by  no  means  conclusive.  A  supply  of  whole- 
some nourishment,  with  avoidance  of  the  causes  of  disease,  and  bodily 
and  mental  rest,  will  be  surer  in  their  present  effects  and  safer  in 
future  results.  Few  medical  practitioners  can  pass  many  years,  or  even 
months,  without  meeting  with  the  melancholy  results  of  intemperance 
that  began  with  the  medicinal  use  of  brandy-and-water,  champagne,  etc. 
The  possibility  is  here  referred  to  simply  as  a  warning  to  those,  who, 
consulting  these  pages,  may  feel  justified  in  advising  the  use  of  alcoholic 
stimulants  as  a  means  of  combating  disease,  lest  they  forget  to  look  also 
to  the  discontinuance  of  their  use. 

As  regards  the  dietetic  use  of  alcoholic  stimulants,  we  have  only  a  few 
words  to  add  to  the  caution  already  given. 

Malt  Liquors  are,  as  a  general  rule,  the  most  wholesome  of 
alcoholic  beverages.  The  alcohol  is  in  them  so  combined  with  saccharine 
matter  and  tonic  vegetable  principles  that  it  can  only  be  separated  by  a 
distillation  destructive  of  all  other  qualities.  A  small  quantity  of  mild  ale 
or  porter  taken  with  dinner  and  supper,  or  luncheon  and  dinner,  sup- 
ports the  strength,  and  supplies  wear  and  tear. 

Wines  resemble  malt  liquors  in  that  when  pure  the  alcohol  is  in  a 
state  of  chemical  combination  that  can  only  be  superseded  by  destructive 
distillation.  They  have  not,  however,  so  much  solid  matter  suspended  in 
them  as  malt  liquors.  They  are  for  this  reason  better  suited  to  persons 
of  weak  digestive  powers.  The  dietetic  and  the  therapeutic  uses  of  wines 
must  depend  upon  their  percentage  of  alcohol,  and  upon  the  develop- 
ment in  them  of  certain  acids  and  spirituous  combinations  termed  ethers, 
which  constitute  what  judges  of  wine  call  the  "  bouquet."  The  propor- 
tion of  unfermented  sugar  also  is  a  point  to  be  considered  in  selecting 
wine  for  invalids.  Thus,  there  are  sweet  and  astringent  wines,  as  there 
are  ra/and  white  wines,  and  there  are  wines  in  which  the  fermentation 
of  the  sugar  is  checked  and  the  sparkling  or  effervescing  wine  is 
produced. 

Effervescing  wines,  Champagne  and  Moselle,  are  among  the  most 
valuable  wines  for  medicinal  purposes.  The  free  carbonic  acid  they  con- 
tain renders  them  very  serviceable  in  sickness  and  vomiting,  while  the 
alcohol,  being  in  some  peculiar  state  of  combination,  is  more  volatile,  acts 
as  a  more  rapid  stimulant,  effects  passing  off  more  rapidly  than  those  of 
other  and  stronger  wines. 

Astringent  wines,  such  as  Burgundy,  Hungarian,  Bordeaux,  etc.,  are 
less  liable  to  ferment  in  the  stomach.  Port,  Madeira,  sherry,  Marsala, 
are  all  stronger  wines,  and  are  said  to  be  highly  brandied,  and  therefore 
less  wholesome  for  ordinary  consumption  ;  but  they  are  (if  moderately 
good)  more  useful  for  medicinal  purposes  than  the  lighter  wines,  which 
may  be  safer  for  daily  use  dietetically.  In  this  matter,  however,  as  in 
many  others  where  eating  and  drinking  are  concerned,  quantity  is  often  a 
more  important  element  in  the  question  than  quality.  There  is,  moreover, 
so  much  in  fashion  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  say  which  wines  are 
best.     Moderation  is  the  golden  rule. 

Spirits,  the  type  of  which  may  be  taken  to  be  brandy,  are  only  of 
value  as  medicinal  agents,  and  for  these  purposes  they  are  sometimes  in- 
valuable—-^., in  low  fevers,  in  some   inflammations,  and  in  states  of 


Disinj action.  5  ° : 


debility,  in  sickness,  and  generally  as  indicated  under  the  several  head- 
ings of  diseases  in  the  preceding  pages.  We  have  no  hesitation  in  affirm- 
ing that  raw  or  diluted  raw  spirits  can  never  be  advantageously  used 
merely  as  ordinary  beverages  by  those  who  can  obtain  wholesome  malt 
liquor  or  wines. 

The  habit  of  spirit-drinking  (as  grog  every  night)  as  practised  by  many 
"  very  respectable  people  "  in  the  middle  classes,  is  not  one  whit  morally 
or  physically  better  than  the  habits  of  the  poor  besotted  creatures  who 
swarm  in  and  out  of  the  London  gin  palaces.  With  the  moral  aspects  of 
the  habit  it  may  be  said  that  we  are  not  concerned,  but  of  the  physical 
aspects  we  feel  morally  bound  by  a  solemn  responsibility  to  speak.  From 
our  own  personal  observation  we  would  warn  all  whom  it  may  concern, 
that  the  "  night-cap,"  as  it  is  miscalled,  gradually  generates  disease  of  the 
brain,  liver,  kidneys,  with  all  the  horrible  train  of  diseases — delirium, 
paralysis,  dropsy,  cum  multis  aliis. 


CHAPTER     VI. 

DISINFECTION. 

The  following  directions,  prepared  from  instructions  published  by  the 
Association  of  Medical  Officers  of  Health  in  London,  will  be  found  useful 
for  the  prevention  of  the  spread  of  infectious  diseases  : — 

"  When  a  person  is  attacked,  one  of  two  things  should  immediately 
be  done.  The  sick  person  should  either  be  put  into  a  room,  apart 
from  others,  the  room  being  stripped  first  of  all  carpets,  curtains,  and 
unnecessary  furniture,  or  where  this  cannot  be  done,  should  be  sent  to 
hospital. 

"  When  possible,  all  persons  who  have  not  had  the  disease  should  be 
sent  out  of  the  house  to  lodge  elsewhere. 

"  The  infectious  principle  of  the  disease  is  given  off  by  the  breath, 
and  by  all  the  discharges  of  the  sick  person  ;  also  from  the  skin  until 
long  after  apparent  recovery,  so  long  indeed  as  any  roughness  remains 
upon  it. 

"Persons  with  sore  throat,  when  scarlet  fever  is  about,  sometimes 
give  scarlet  fever  to  other  people. 

"  To  prevent  it  coming  off  by  the  breath,  the  mouth,  throat,  and  nose 
should  be  very  frequently  washed  with  a  disinfecting  solution,  such  as 
water  containing  some  Condy's  fluid  or  chloride  of  soda,  by  gargling, 
swabbing,  or  syringing. 

"  All  vessels  intended  to  receive  the  discharges  from  the  bowels,  etc., 
should  have  a  dessert-spoonful  of  carbolic  acid  with  a  little  water  con- 
stantly kept  in  them. 

"  Rags  should  be  used  instead  of  handkerchiefs  for  removing  or 
wiping  away  the  discharges  from  the  throat  or  nose,  and  they  should 
then  be  burned. 

"  The  air  of  the  room  should  be  kept  sweet  and  disinfected,  and  pre- 
vented from  mixing  with  the  other  air  of  the  house.     This  may  be  done 


;o2 


Disinfection. 


by  constantly  keeping  up  a  small  fire,  or  by  hanging  over  the  doorway 
an  old  sheet  well  sprinkled  with  carbolic  acid,  or  by  both  these  methods. 

"No  unnecessary  communication  should  take  place  between  the 
nurse  in  the  sick-room  and  the  other  inmates  of  the  house.  Nurses  or 
attendants  should  wear  glazed  or  smooth  dresses  in  preference  to  rough 
and  woollen  ones,  and  should  wash  their  hands  before  eating. 

"All  handkerchiefs,  towels,  sheets,  articles  of  clothing,  etc.,  should  be 
steeped  in  boiling  water  containing  carbolic  acid,  or  Condy's  fluid,  or 
chloride  of  soda  (a  teaspoonful  to  the  gallon),  before  they  are  taken  out 
of  the  sick  room. 

"  Whenever  slops  from  the  sick  room  are  thrown  down  closets,  sinks, 
or  drains,  a  teaspoonful  of  carbolic  acid  in  a  basinful  of  water  should  be 
thrown  down  after  them." 

During Recoveiy  and  Convalescence. — "Warm  baths  with  soap  should 
be  used  repeatedly  until  all  roughness  of  the  skin  has  disappeared  :  a 
little  carbolic  acid  added  renders  the  washing  more  effective  for  dis- 
infection. 

"  Until  all  roughness  of  the  skin  has  disappeared,  the  person  should 
not  be  allowed  to  mix  with  the  rest  of  the  family,  and  then  only  in  new 
clothes,  or  in  clothes  which  have  been  thoroughly  disinfected." 

/;/  the  Event  of  a  Fatal  Termination. — "  The  body  should  not  be  re- 
moved into  another  room  to  spread  infection  over  the  house.  It  is  still 
infectious. 

"  No  articles  of  bedding  or  clothing  should  be  removed  from  the  room 
until  disinfected  as  formerly  stated. 

"In  washing  the  body,  carbolic  acid  (a  dessert-spoonful  to  the  gallon 
of  water)  should  be  used. 

"  The  body  should  be  put  into  the  coffin  as  soon  as  possible,  with  a 
disinfectant.  Macdougars  powder  may  be  used,  sprinkled  freely  under- 
neath and  over  the  corpse,  or  rags  soaked  in  strong  carbolic  acid  may  be 
laid  beneath  it  and  over  it  (beneath  the  clothing).  The  coffin  should  be 
screwed  down  and  the  body  buried  as  sooji  as  possible" 

Subsequent  Disinfection  of  the  House,  d^c. — "  The  infection  hangs 
about  a  room  or  house  for  a  very  long  time,  and  is  difficult  to  dislodge. 
Fumigation  by  sulphur,  however,  may  be  employed  by  any  one,  the  paper 
being  previously  wetted  with  carbolic  acid,  stripped  off,  and  burned.  A 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  brimstone,  broken  into  small  pieces,  should  be  put 
into  an  iron  dish  (or  a  lid  of  an  iron  saucepan  turned  upside  down)  sup- 
ported by  a  pair  of  tongs  over  a  bucket  of  water.  The  fireplace  and 
outer  openings,  such  as  the  crevices  of  the  windows,  are  then  to  be  closed 
by  pasting  paper  over  them,  and  a  shovelful  of  live  coals  is  to  be  put 
upon  the  brimstone.  The  door  is  then  to  be  quickly  shut,  the  crevices 
pasted  up  with  paper,  and  the  room  kept  closed  for  five  or  six  hours. 
Articles  of  clothing  hung  up  loosely,  or  left  uncovered  in  the  room,  are 
fumigated  at  the  same  time. 

"  After  this,  a  thorough  cleaning  should  be  made  ;  everything  that  can 
be,  washed  with  a  little  carbolic  acid  in  the  water,  and  boiled.  The  room 
should  then  be  lime-washed,  and  afterwards  left  unoccupied  with  the  win- 
dows open  for  a  week  or  a  fortnight." 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


ABSORPTION   OF  HEAT, 

rt  67 

Acarus  sacchari,  222 
Accepted    invitations    must    be 
kept,  319 
Accidents   to   horses,    treatment 
of,  368 
Accomplishments    easily    learnt 
by  goldfinches,  437 
Acer  saccharinum,  222 
Acetic  acid,  197 
Acid,  acetic,  197 

Scheele  on,  198 
carbonic,  poisonous,  4 
citric,  212 
lactic,  121 
olive,  86 
palmitic,  86 
pyrolignejus,  98 
raspberry,  243 
sauce,  good,  200 
stearic,  86 
strawberry,  241 
sulphuric,  86 
Acland's,   Mr.,   observations  on 
defects  of  vision,  7S 
Aconite  poisoning,  475 
Acrid  resin,  201 
Actinic  rays,  69 
Acton,  Eliza,  on  bread,  124 
Adamant,  108 

Adulteration,  to  detect,  in  vine- 
gar,  199 
Advertisements    in    the    Tunes, 
424 
Aerated  bread,  to  make,  123 
African  beer,  what  made  from, 
27S 
palm  oil,  84 
Agate-coloured  canary,  446 
Age  for  sitting  hen,  410 
Agreement  for  hiring  house,  7 
Ailments,  occasional,  of  horses, 
3°* 
Air,  component  parts  of,  58 
dirty,  from  without,  331 
fit  to  breathe  in  case  of  fire, 
72 
in  storm,  quality  of,  92 


Air,  pressure  of,  on  water,  94 

pump,  96 

soiled,  from  within,  331 
Alabaster,  to  clean,  335 
Alaria  esculenta,  185,  187 

how  to  prepare,  187 

where  grown,  187 
Albumen  in  eggs,  214 

in  the  eye,  75 

required  in  food,  109 
Alcohol,  97 

added  to  wine,  255 

pure,  very  rare,  261 
Alderney  cows,  391 
Ale  cup,  239 

in  Chaucer's  time,  how  made, 

26P 

mild,    constituent   parts   cf, 

263 

pale,    constituent  parts    of, 

263 

strong,       constituents       of, 

'^63 

the  national  beverage  of  the 

English,  263 

when   flavoured  with  hops, 

263 

Alexander     de     Spina,     invents 

spectacles,  78 

Alicant   wine,   contains    tannin, 

2^4 
Alkalies  in  soap,  207 

Allspice,  constituents,  203 

Allyle,  in  horseradish,  174 

in  onion,  174 
Almond  oil,  86 

where  grown,  193 
Almonds,  bitter,  210 

constituent  parts  of,  210 

Jordan,  210 

oil  of,  210 

where  grown,  210 
Altringham  carrot,  171 
Alum,  for  fining  beer,  276 

in  flour,  116 

to  discover  in  bread,  126 
American  receipt,  eggs,  216 

box  churn,  415 

buckwheat  cake,  130 


American  butter  squash,  176 

cheese.  129 

flour,  116 

fried  cauliflower,  168 

sourkraut,  168 

temperance  beverage,  236 

way  to  clean  paint,  330 
Americans  use  buckwheat,  119 
Ammonia,  serviceable  in  manure, 

353 
Ammonium,  salts  of,  91 

nitrate  of,  01 
Amontillado,  where  grown,  254 

the  "sack"  of  Shakspeare, 

254 
Anchovy  cutlets,  148 

how  caught,  148 

how  preserved,  148 

where  found,  148 
Animal  heat,  58 

life    depends    on    vegetable 
m  life,  59 

poisoning,  473 

poisons,  474 
Annato,  used  in  cheese-making, 
404 
Another  drink,  243 
Antimony  poisoning,  479 
Ants'  eggs  for  birds,  456 

eggs  for  pheasants'  food,  42 S 

to  get  rid  of,  341 
Apoplexy  in  fowls,  417 
Appearance  of  guinea  fowl  de- 
ceptive, 425 
Apple  barley-water,  234 

juice,  contains,  279 

rice  water,  234 

tea,  233 

water,  234         " 
Apples  for  dessert,  189 

how  to  choose,  188 

how  to  keep,  188 

in  season,  188 

love  knots,  189 

sort  used  for  cider,  279 

uses  of,  188 
Apricot,  in  season,  191 

native  of,  191 

qualities  of,  187 


506 


General  Index. 


Apricot,  uses  for,  192 

Ball,  duties  of  sons  and  daughters 

Ardent  spirits,  consists  of,  188 

at,  307 

Argand  lamp,  88 

flowers  for,  307 

Argus   pheasant,    where    found, 

introducing  partners  at,  307 

429 

music  for,  307 

description  of,  429 

public,  308 

Arnott  stove,  71 

requisites  for,  307 

advisable   for   smoky   chim- 

room, 307 

ney,  71 

room  acquaintance,  308 

directions  for  arranging,  71 

supper  for,  308 

ventilator    necessary    where 

Bantam  fowls,  amusing  to  keep, 

gas  is  used,  5 

416 

ventilators  wrong,  7 

black  and  white,  416 

Arcmatic  herbs,   preventives   of 

description  of,  416 

pestilence,  60 

game,  description  of,  416 

resin  in  hops,  179 

Sebright  gold,  416 

Arrack,  how  obtained,  262 

Sebright  silver  laced,  416 

Arrears  of  taxes,  9 

white,  very  rare,  416 

Arrowroot,  no 

Barbachlaw  oat,  117 

fritters,  229 

Barbel,  149 

maranta,  204 

where  found,  151 

starch,  208 

Barberries,  dish  of,  190 

to  test,  226 

in  season,  190 

used  for,  205 

to  pickle,  226 

where  grown,  204 

to  preserve,  226 

Arsenical  poisoning,  480 

uses  for,  190 

Artichoke,  Jerusalem,  176 

Barley    and     capillaire     drink. 

when  to  gather,  176 

"43 

Artichokes,  173 

best  for  malt,  268 

Jerusalem,  159 

bread,  125 

Artificial  aids  to  the  eye,  78 

constituent  parts  of,  118 

light,  84 

meal,  in 

Arum,  common,  179 

milk,  232 

Asparagus,  where  native  of,  172 

used  for  malt,  118 

Aspect  for  rooms,  18 

water,  232 

of  house,  11 

water,  simple,  232 

Asphalte,  84 

Barm,  made  of  potatoes,  164 

Asses'  milk,  contents  of,  127 

Barn-door  fowls,  useful,  412 

Astrakan  furs,  328 

Barometer,  directions  for  fixing, 

Atmosphere  affects  metals,  93 

102 

as  we  breathe  it,  58 

by  Davis  &  Co.,  103 

purity  of,  to  test,  331 

by  Negretti  &  Zambra,  102 

Attention    required    for    turkey 

how  to  make,  101 

chicks,  422 

how  to  test,  102 

Australian  Adelaide  wine,  258 

invented  py  Torricelli,  103 

grass  parrakeets,  452 

use  of,  101 

unhappy  alone,  453 

use  to  sailors,  103 

Avadavats,  delicate  birds,  450 

what  indicated   by  fall   of. 

description  of,  450 

103 

Aviary,  arrangements  for,  457 

when  highest,  103 

Aylesbury  ducks  reared  in  cot- 

Basil, where  native  of,  176 

tages,  419 

Basse,  148 

Ayrshire  cows,  391 

Batavian  endive,   broad  leaver]. 

Azote  in  cabbage,  167 

176 

Bath,   a  great  treat  to  pigeons, 

T3A.C0N,  137 

■*-'                 Lord,  on  the  potato, 

for  canary  s  cage,  441 

requisite  for  goldfinch,  439 

159 

Baths  and  bathing,  488 

waste  in  cooking,  137 

Baths,  for  fowls,  408 

Badderlocks,  187 

use  of,  improve  health,  63 

Badminton,  232 

Battata  da  Terra,  157 

Bad  smell  of  paint,  to  get  rid  of. 

Baum,  fur  dyed,  324 

18 

Beans  and  corn,  170 

Baking    powder    for    hot    rolls, 

as  food  for  horses,  374 

125 

directions  for  using",  374 

powders,  124 

kidney,  170 

Ball,  conduct  of  young  lady  at, 

Lima,  170 

3°7 

meal  in  flour,  116 

dress  for,  307 

new,  bad  for  food,  374 

uties  of  hostess  at,  307 

scarlet  runner,  170 

Beans  and  corn,  when  brought  to 
England,  170 

when  in  season,  170 

where  natives  of,  170 
Bears,  brown,  328 

grizzly,  328 
Beaver,  habits  of,  326 

native  of,  326 
Bedding,  for  ducks,  418 

to  disinfect,  34 
Bedrooms,  the,  24 

description  by  Lord  Lytton, 

32 
modern  bedsteads  in,  24 
necessary  order  in,  31 
opinions  on,  by  Leigh  Hunt, 

3i 

special  furniture  for  lady's, 

24 

Beds,  cost  of,  34 
chaff  for,  34 
feather,  34 

method  of  making,  330 
moss  for,  34 

Beech,  27 

Beef,  best  to  purchase,  131 
bull,  to  know,  133 
cold,  how  to  cook,  2S2 
constituent  parts,  131 
loses  in  cooking,  131 
salt,  cold,  to  use,  282 
tea,  131,  496 
to  keep,  140 
to  know  heifer,  133 

Beer,  brewed  in  March,  when  to 
tap,  276 
brewed  in  October,  when  to 
tap,  276 
buy  of  good  brewers,  278 
cellar,  temperature  of,  276 
cellar,  to  manage,  275 
contains  malt,  118 
fined  with  alum,  276 
fined  with  isinglass,  276 
fined  with  quicklime,  276 
fined  with  salt,  276 
good  for  servants,  275 
how  adulterated,  278 
how  to  fine,  275 
how  to  manage  in  cellar,  275 
how  to  rack,  276 
ingredients  in,  263 
quantity  per  head,  284 
raspberry,  244 
spruce,  244 
testing  casks  of,  278 
to  keep  in  the  earth,  278 
turns  sour  quickest    when, 
269 
when  fit  to  use,  274 
when   flat  how  to  remedy, 
s76 

Bees'  wax,  85 

Beetles  or  crickets,  to  kill,  341 

Beetroot,    attacked    by    potato 
blight,  164 
sugar,  221 
where  manufactured,  221 

Beignets  dAbricots,  192 

Belgian  canary,  description   of, 
446 


General  hidex. 


5°7 


Belladonna  liniment,  486 

poisoning,  475 
Bell-trapped    pots    for    stables, 
349 
Belmontine  candles,  208 
Beni-Castro,  255 
Bennett,  Dr. ,  on  Dorking  fowls, 

Berlin  porcelain,  marks  on,  47 
Beverage,  American  temperance, 
236 

champagne.  237 

orange  and  lemon,  238 
Bill  of  fare  for  a  week,  2S6 

for  eight  persons,  292 

more    expensive,    for    each 
month,  293 
Birch,  27 

Bird-catchers  of  Epping  forest, 
.       440 
fanciers  fond  of  siskins,  439 
Birds  as  pets,  435 

nests,  230 
Biscuit  pudding,  331 

how  to  keep,  196 
Bishop,  244 
Bitter  almonds,  210 
Bitters,  brandy,  246 
Black  and  white  puddings,  137 
Blackberry  wine,  251 

syrup,  241 
Blackcap,  mock  nightingale,  455 

Mr.  Sweet  on,  455 
Black  currant  wine,  250 
Black,  Dr. ,  on  fixed  air,  8S 

power  of  absorbing  heat,  68 

tea,  217 
Black  lead,  a  radiator,  68 

consists  of,  210 
Blankets,  number  of,  34 

price  of,  34 

quality  of,  34 
Blemishes  in  horses,  366 
Bloaters,  154 

Blood,  component  parts  of,  58 
Blue,  how  used,  208 

rock  pigeons  profitable,  423 
Blue  vitriol  poisoning,  480 
"Blues"  cup,  the,  236 
Board  cleaning,  332 
Boards,  to  take  ink  out  of,  341 
Boar's  head,  to  dress,  308 

sauce,  309 

to  cook,  309 
Bohea  tea,  217 
Boiled  beef,  to  carve,  299 

fresh  truffles,  184 

turkey,  to  carve,  303 
Boiler  for  harness  room,  355 
Boils,  458 
Bone  dust  in  flour,  116 

powdered  is  gelatine,  132 

spavin  in  horses,  treatment 
of>  370 
Bones  contain  fluorine,  in 

for  stock,  282 

marrow,  boiled,  141 

to  devil,  282 
Borage,  a  tonic,  179 

contains,  179 

uses  of,  179 


Borage,  where  grown,  180 
Bordeaux,  255 
Bores  at  morning  calls,  317 
Bornean  vegetable  tallow,  85 
Bottcher,  John  Frederick.  44 
Bottles,  hermetically  sealed,  197 

how  to  clean,  260 

how  to  store,  260 

to   be   rinsed   with   brandy, 
260 

to  be  well  drained,  260 

to  purify,  341 

when  to  clean,  260 
Bottling  beer,  directions  for,  277 

fruit,  227 
Boulettes  au  fois  de  veau,  141 
Bouquets,  arranging  of,  54 
Bow  china,  marks  on,  47 
Bowls  for  dairy,  390 
Brackets,  29 

Bradley,   Professor,   on  the  po- 
tato, 159 
Bramah  Pootra  fowls,   quarrel- 
some, 413 

description  of,  413 

lay  early,  413 

sit  eggs  of,  under  Dorking, 

v  4I3 

Lran,  114 

constituent  parts  in,  126 

mashes  for  horses,  374 

poultices  for  horses,  374 

quantity  of,  for  a  mash,  375 

to  soften  hard  water,  270 

very  useful  in  stable,  374 

water,  to  make,  125 
Brandy,  analysis  of,  261 

bitters,  246 

boils  at,  65 

cherries,  192 

cherry,  248 

French,  the  best,  262 

how  flavoured,  262 

orange,  237 

rose,  240 

Spanish,  next  in  quality,  262 

what  distilled  from,  261 

why  named  Cognac,  262 
Brass,  to  clean,  335 
Brassica  arvensis,  209 

oleracea,  167 

rapus,  209 
Brazilian  coffee,  colour  of,  219 
Bread,  in 

aerated,  124 

barley,  125 

fermentation  of,  98 

French,  126 

griddle  cakes,  126  , 

home  made,  281 

how  to  manage,  281 

oaten,  125 

of  the  desert,  240 

potato,  124 

price  of,  285 

pudding  for  the  poor,  322 

quantity  per  head,  2S1 

sago,  125 

unfermented,  124 

weights  of,  126 

when  good,  126 


Breakfast,  312 

flowers  on,  2S7 

how  to  lay,  287 

supplies  for,  287 

tables,  286 

wedding,  312 
Bream,  how  cooked,  151 

where  found,  151 
Breast  of  veal,  to  carve,  301 
Breast  or  hunting  plate,  use  of, 
3S2 
Breeding-cages  for  canaries,  444 

rules  for  canaries,  444 
Brewery,    the,     description    of, 
264 
Brewhouse,  to  keep  clean,  264. 
Brewing  utensils — 

bushel  measure,  268 

casks,  267 

coolers,  266 

coppers,  265 

fermenting  tun,  266 

mash-tub,  265 

oak-stands,  267 

penstaff,  265 

rouser,  266 

salcharometer,  267 

skimmer,  268 

stillions,  267 

tap  trough,  268 

tap  tub,  268 

thermometer,  267 

tin  spouts,  268 

tub,  268 

underback,  266 
care  of,  264 
how  to  clean,  264 
Brewster,    Sir   D.,    improver  of! 
the  stereoscope,  79 

calculations  on  the  eye,  77 
Brick  tea,  where  made,  217 
Bridegroom's  best  man,  313 
Bride's  bouquet,  313 

dress  for,  313 
Bridesmaids,  number  of,  313 

rules  for,  313 
Bridle,  the  snaffle,  383 

curb  bit,  the,  383 

Hanoverian,  the,  383 

Pelham,  the,  383 
_  price  of  a,  383 
Bright  surfaces,  bad  absorbents, 

67 

opinions  of  i  ranklin  on,  67 
opinions  of  Professor  Pepper 
on,  67 
opinions  of  Tyndall  on,  67 

Brill,  price  of,  146 

Brine,  boiling  of,  96 

Britannia  metal,  to  clean,  340 

Broad  beans,  mashed,  171 

Brocoli,  167 

Broiled  lobster,  231 

Broken   knees  in  horses,    treat- 
ment of,  368 

Bronchitis,  456 

Bronze,  real,  to  clean,  351 

Brown-arid-white    mice,    caged, 

,       •  433 

Brown  colouring,  229 

Windsor  soap,  207 


5cS 


General  Index. 


Bruises,  458 
Brushes  for  dairy,  390 
Brussels  sprouts,  167 
Bucking,  or  plunging  of  horses, 
how  to  cure,  380 
Buckwheat,     constituent     parts 
of,  119 
used      in      backwoods      of 
America,  119 
Buhl  work,  28 

Builder,  respectability  of,  12 
Euilding  a  dairy,  directions  for, 

389 
a  house,  11 

architect  necessary  for,  12 
fowl  house,  408 
objections  to,  11 
plans  for,  12 
societies,  12 
stables,  351 

Bullfinch,  apt  to  forget,  437 
can  be  caught  tricks,  437 
Germans  teach  to  sing,  436 
happy  in  confinement,  436 
how  to  feed,  436 
how  to  teach  to  sing,  436 
price  of  singing,  436 
song  of,  not  musical,  436 
very  affectionate,  435 

Bullfinches  require   green  food, 

435 

effect  of  heating  seed  on,  435 
Bunting,  Dominican  bird,  448 
Burdock,  how  cooked,  170 
Burgundy,  constituent  parts  of, 
252 

Beaujolais,  256 

Beaune,  256 

Chablis,  256 

Chambertin,  254 

Clos  Vougeot,  246 

Frontignac,  256 

Hermitage,  256 

Macon,  256 

Montrachet,  2=^ 

Nuits.  2C? 

Pon"H~j£,  256 

Qualities  of,  256 

red  and  white,  256 

Romanee-Conti,  256 

St.  Georges,  256 

Volnay,  256 

Vosne,  256 
Burnouf,  M.,  on  eggs,  214 
Burr  stones,  French,  114 

method    of    grinding    with, 

115 
method  of  splitting,  114 
size  of,  114 
Bushel  measure  for  malt,  268 
Butcher's  meat,  directions  about, 

I3I 
price  of,  285 
Butter,  to  churn,  399 
adulteration  of,  130 
consumption  of,  400 
Dorset,  129 
for  winter  use,  400 
fresh,  129 
how  to  make,  128 
in  London  expensive,  129 


Butter,  made  from  cream,  397 

Ostend,  129 

Potted,  129 

quantity  per  head,  284 

salt,  129 

stand  for  dairy,  390 

to  keep,  130 

to  make,  129 

to  salt,  400 

to  shape,  399 

Welsh,  129 

without  salt,  400 
Buttermilk,  232 
Butter  squash,  American,  176 
Buying  squirrels,  time  for,  431 


/^ABBAGE,  contains,  167 
^  how  cooked,  167 

lettuce,  167 

or  spinach,  with  mashed  po- 
tatoes, 173 

proper    accompaniment    of, 
167 

rose,  167 

signification  of,  167 

water,  3 

when  in  season,  167 
Caffeine,  in  coffee,  202 
Cage  for  canaries,  size  of,  441 

for  dormice,  432 

for  squirrels,  431 

fountain  in,  441 
Caged    goldfinches     live     many 
years,  437 
Cake,  American  buckwheat,  120 
Cakes,  American  honey,  223 

honey,  224 

how  to  keep,  196 

potato,  230 
Calf,  joints  of  a,  134 

pens,  how  to  arrange,  401 
Calf's  head,  to  carve,  301 
Calico,  to  choose,  323 
Call,   peculiar,   of  guinea  fowl, 

425 

Calves,  to  wean,  393 
diseases  of,  394 
how  to  feed,  394 
where  to  pasture,  394 

Camellia  Japonica,  217 

Camera  obscura,  75 

Camp  vinegar,  199 

Campoi  tea,  217 

Canada  lynx,  344 

Canaries,  Belgian,  446 
agate-coloured,  446 
arrangements  for  food  for, 
441 
arrangements   of    cage   for, 
441 
bath  for,  441 
best  to  rear,  440 
cages  for  breeding,  446 
cinnamon,  446 
claws  must  be  cut,  443 
cross  breeding  of,  446 
danger  to,  from  getting  into 
glasses,  441 
duties  to  caged,  440 
feet  want  cleansing,  443 


Canaries,  fir  branch  good  for,  443 
flaxen,  446 
flourish     in     imprisonment, 

434 
fond  of  plants,  441 
food  for,  hatching,  443 
food    for,  requires    variety, 

443 
food  for  young,  445 
fountain  in  cage  for,  441 
German,  446 
green,  of  Teneriffe,  446 
grey,  448 

happy  in  a  cage,  440 
hot  bath  for,  443 
jonques,  446 
lizard,  446 

London  fancy  prize,  446 
materials  for  nest  for,  444 
mealy,  446 
Norwich,  446 
ought  to  be  familiar,  445 
physic  for,  443 
rules  for  breeding,  444 
rules  for  pairing,  444 
size  of  cage  for,  441 
sometimes  sulky,  440 
spangled,  446 
suffer  from  cold,  434 
taught  to  sing   by  nightin- 
gales, 446 
taught  to  sing  by  woodlarks, 
446 
to  teach  young  to  sing,  446 
very    shy    while    breeding, 

444 

young,  delicate,  446 
Candle,  chemical  history  of,  88 

frames,  86 
Candlebury  myrtle,  84 
Candles,  85  _ 

Belmontine,  208 

composite,  86 

dips,  85,  208 

Egyptian,  85 

Field's  ozokerit,  208 

half  hour  208 

how  to  whiten.  209 

method  of  making,  86 

moulds,  85 

Price's,  208 

rock,  208 

Roman,  85 

sperm,  208 

time-measuring,  85 

wax,  86,  208 

which  best,  208 
Candlesticks,  golden,  84 

to  clean,  339 
Candying  fruits,  227 
Cane,  27 

Canna  edulis,  205 
Canoe  waggonette,  price  of,  365 
Cape  wines,  258 
Caper  tea,  217 
Capillaire,  235 

drink,  242 
Capillary  vessels,  58 
Capiscin,  causes  sneezing,  izi 
Capo  di  Monte  china,  47 

marks  on,  48 


General  Index. 


509 


Capon,  142 
Capsicum  vinegar,  199 
Carbolic  soap,  207 
Carbon,  as  fuel,  68 
combustion  of,  88 
wanted   more   in   cold   wea- 
ther, 62 
Carbonate  of  soda,  204 
Carbonic  acid,  an  agent  of  great 
good  in  creation,  63 
a  narcotic  poison,  60 
annihilates  fire,  60 

beneficial  in  water,  63 

cause  of  the  death  of  British 
prisoners  in  Calcutta,  60 

counteracted  by  fresh  slaked 
lime,  62 

fatal,  59 

necessary  in  chalk,  63 

nourishment  for  planis,  60 

poisoning,  479 

poisonous,  4 
Carbuncles,  458 
Cardinal  grosbeak,  449 
Care  necessary  in  bottling,  259 

to  be  taken  in  aiding  chuck 
to  leave  the  shell,  411 
Carp,  food  of,  149 

description  of,  149 

how  cooked,  149 
Carpet  dance,  rules  fur,  307 
Carpets,  19 

Axminster,  20 

.Brussels,  20 

different  kinds  of,  20 

drugget,  20 

Dutch,  20 

felt,  20 

rules  for  laying  down,  21 

rules  for  making  up,  21 

tapestry,  20 

to  clean,  332 

to  remove  grease  from,  334 

to  remove  ink  from,  334 

Turkey,  20 

Venetian,  20 

Wilton,  20 
Carrageen  moss,  186 
Carriage,  duty  on,  383 

getting  into  a,  321 

place  of  honour  in,  321 

rules  for  behaviour  in,  321 
Carriage  horse,  size  of,  363 

defects  of,  363 

hiring  of,  363 

price  of,  363 
Carriages,  description  of,  3S4 

basket,  387 

canoe  waggonette,  3S5 

dog  cart,  387 

double  brougham,  384 

gig,  387 

how  to  keep  in  order,  388 

how   to   stand    in   a  coach- 
house, 356 

how  to  wash,  388 

park  driving  phaeton,  386 

single  brougham,  384 

skeleton  phaeton,  386 

Victoria,  385 

waggonette,  385 


Carrier  pigeons  useful,  423 

as  state  messengers,  424 

number  of  messages  carried 
by  one,  424 

the  rate  they  fly  at,  424 
Carrot.  Altringham,  171 

jam,  172 

soup, 172 
Carrots  as  food  for  horses,  375 

contain,  171 

in  season,  171 
Carte  for  wedding  breakfast  in 
summer,  314 

in  winter,  314 
Caryophillus  aromaticus,  203 
Casaque  (great  coat),  163 
Caseine  in  flour,  113 
Casks  for  brewing,  how  to  clean, 
264 

size  and  number  of,  267 
Cassia,  bark,  204 
Castile  soap,  207 
Cast-iron  and  black  hearths,    to 
clean,  339 
Castor  Fibor,  326 
Casualties    occurring    to    cows, 
39" 
Catgut,    efiect  of  moisture   on, 
IC7 
Cats,  as  outdoor  pets,  430 
Cattle,  feed  on  vine-leaves,  253 
Caudle,  cold,  245 
Cauliflower,  167 
Caviare,  Russian,  150 
Cayenne  pepper,    cure    for   sore 
throat,  202 

adulterated,  502 

Dr.  Kitchener  on,  202 

hjme-made,  202 

where  obtained,  202 
Cayenne  vinegar,  200 
Cedar,  27 

Ceiling,  in  stable,  height  of,  352 
Ceilings,  to  be  whitewashed,  331 
Celadon,  43 
Celery  vinegar,  200 
Cellars,  to  keep  from  frost,  27S 
Cement  for  china,  49 

for  glass,  341 

how  to  apply,  49 

how  to  make,  49 
Centre  ornament,  55 
Ceremonial  visits,  317 
Ceylon  coffee,  colour  of,  219 
Chadburn's,    Messrs.,    diagram, 

Chaff  for  beds,  34 

as  food  for  horses,  375 

how  used,  375 

what  made  of,  375 
Chaffinch,   prized    for   its   song, 

439 
easily  tamed,  440 
food  for,  440 
nest  of  wild,  440- 
pnce  of  good  singing,  439 
song  of  varies,  440 
value  of  in  Thuringia,  440 
worth  a  cow,  440 
Chalk,  efiect  on  water,  91 
to  test  for  in  milk,  128 


Chalky  water,  makes  good  ale, 
270 
Champagne,  94 

Ay,  257 

beverage,  237 

Closet,  257 

constituent  parts  of,  252 

cup, 236 

Dizy,  257 

Epernay,  257 

glass,  37 

Hautvdliers,  257 

home  made,  250 

how  designated,  257 

improved  by  ice,  257 

Marenil,  257 

Mr.  Redding  on,  257 

qualities  of,  for  invalids,  253 

Sillery,  257 

still,  the  best,  257 

when  in  perfection,  25S 

where  grown  best,  257 
Chapped  hands,  460 
Charcoal,  as  carbonic  acid,  61 

fire,  dangerous  in  a  bedroom, 
62 

to  boil  with  high  meat,  139 

to  improve  colour  of  flowers, 

139 
to  keep  hams  in,  139 

to  preserve  meat,  139 
Charlock,  use  of,  178 
Cheap  and  elegant  cream,  230 
Cheap  furnishing,  28 

bedroom  bookshelves,  29 

Brussels    carpet    in   dining- 
room,  29 

drawing-room,  suite  in,  2S 
brown     paper,     to     cover 
floors  in,  28 
tapestry  carpets  in,  28 

furniture  in  bedrooms,  29 

furniture  in  dining-room,  29 

furniture  in  hall,  29 

harmony  of  colour  in    bed- 
room, 29 

Kidderminster      carpet,     in 
bedrooms,  29 

price  of  papers  in,  28 

taste  and  economy  in,  28 
Cheap  wine,  a  delusion,  253 
Cheddar  cheese,  403 

how  to  make,  403 
Cheese,  how  to  make,  402 

American,  129 

cakes,  potato,  164 

chamber  in  dairy,  389 

Cheddar,  403 

Cheddar,  contains,  129 

Cheshire,  129 

cream,  405 

Derbyshire,  129 

Dutch,  129 

Gloucester,  129 

Gloucestershire,  402 

green,  406 

Gruyere,  129 

how  to  make,  129 

Irish,  129 

Leicester,  405 

made  from  milk,  397 


5io 


General  Index. 


Cheese,  Neufchatel,  129 

Chinchilla,  where  found,  344 

Cleaning  utensils  for  housemaid, 

Parmesan,  129 

Chinese  cement,  49 

37 

Parmesan,  405 

Chinese       pheasant,       spk 

ndid 

Cleanliness  necessary  in  milking, 

price  of,  129 

plumage 

,428 

402 

pudding,  130 

porcelain,  43 

in  dairy,  390 

puffs,  potato,  166 

Chit-chat,  317 

in  fowl-house,  408 

qualities  of,  129 

Chives,  natives  of,  173 

for  pigeons,  423 

quantity  per  head,  2S4 

Chloride  of  lime,  2S3 

Clear  starching  introduced,  208 

Scotch,  129 

of  zinc  poisoning,  481 

Climate,  491 

skimmed,  contains,  129 

Chlorophyll,  colours  leaves, 

84 

Clipping,  directions  for,  379 

Stilton,  129 

Chocolate,  how  prepared,  220 

horses,  advantage  of,  384 

Stilton,  404 

how  cooked,  220 

Closets  and  cupboards,  want  of. 

to  choose,  129 

Choke-damp,  carbonic  acid, 

60 

to  supply  deficiency  of,  31 

to  keep,  129 

Ch ondrus,  generic  character 

,  185 

to  keep,  2S3 

Crispus,  186 

Cloth,  emer}',  209 

truckle,  404 

fructification,  185 

Cloths  for  dairy,  390 

tubs  for  dairy,  390 

use  of,  186 

cleanliness  of,  53 

Wiltshire,  129 

Chopped  nettles  for  chicks, 

in 

fish,  53 

with  pumpkin,  177 

Christmas  dinners,  308 

glass,  52 

Chelsea  china,  45 

expensive  carte  for,  308 

knitted,  52 

marks  on,  47 

moderate  carte  fur,  308 

pudding,  52 

Chemical  action,  58 

the  time  for  turkey,  422 

Clothing  club  subscription,  322 

Chemical  history  of  a  candle 

83 

Chub,  where  found,  151 

Clouds,  lightning,  distance  from 

Cherries,  qualities  of,  187 

how  cooked, 151 

the  earth,  99 

Cherry,  in  season,  192 

Churn  for  dairy,  390 

Clover,     as     food     fur    hoi^es. 

brandy, 192 

Cicca,  Peter,  on  the  potato, 

156 

375 

brandy,  243 

Cider,  94 

hay,  seldom  used,  373 

native  of,  192 

cup,  239,  264 

Cloves,  constituents,  203 

pickled,  192 

how  made,  279 

where  grown,  203 

uses  for,  192 

how  to  barrel,  280 

Clucking  hen,  a,  410 

water,  235 

how  to  clear,  280 

Clusius,  on  the  potato,  156 

water,  with  capillaire,  390 

how  to  colour,  280 

Coach-house,     arrangement    of, 

Cheshire  cows,  390 

how  to  keep,  280 

350 

cheese,  129 

made  from  apples,  18S 

Coachman,  requisites  in  a,  370 

Chestnut,  imported,  194 

when  to  bottle,  280 

duties  of  a,  370 

flour  for  bread,  194 

Cinnamomum,  204 

requires  a  helper,  371 

horse,  194 

cassia,  204 

wages  of,  371 

Spanish,  194 

Cinnamon,  where  grown,  2c 

4 

where  to  live,  371 

uses  of,  194 

canary,  446 

Coal  fish,  146 

where  grown,  194 

how  dried,  204 

Coals  as  fuel,  69 

Chica,  South  American  beer, 

278 

Cisterns,  9 

burn  fast  in  frost,  69 

Chick,   guinea    fowl,   treatment 

management  of,  97 

fresh,  increase  smoke,  69 

of, 

424 

Citric  acid,  212 

sprinkled  with  water,  69 

requiring   aid    to   leave 

the 

Claret,  constituent  parts  of, 

252 

Coarse  brown  towels,  52 

shell, 

411 

Bordeaux,  256 

washing  of,  52 

Chickens,  fond  of  nettles,  179 

Chateau  Eelaire,  256 

Cob,  where  bred,  364 

to  feed,  410 

Chateau  d'Yquem,  256 

description  of,  364 

to  raise,  410 

Chateau  Lafitte,  25G 

fauhs-to  be  avoided  in  pur- 

Chicks thrive  on  chopped  nettles, 

Chateau  Latour,  256 

chasing,  365 

409 

Chateau  Livran,  256 

Cochin  China  fowls,  appearance 

of  pea-fowl  killed  by  cock, 

Chateau  Margaux,  256 

of,  413 

425 

cup, 236 

prolific  in  eggs,  413 

Chicory,  or  wild  endive,  where 

cup  essence,  247 

seek  roost  early,  413 

native  of, 

178 

expensive,  236 

Cock  and  hen  guinea  fowl,  dif- 

as salad,  178 

Haut  Sauterne,  256 

ference  between,  425 

how  cooked,  178 

Hermitage,  255 

Cockatoo,  451 

how  kept  for  salad,  178 

Languedoc,  255 

Cockles,  good  pickled,  154 

to  detect  in  coffee,  178 

Medoc,  256 

Cocoa,  constituent  parts,  220 

where  grown,  178 

Mr.  Redding  on,  255 

adulterated  with,  220 

Chilblains,  460 

Sauterne,  256 

how  cooked,  220 

Child-crowing,  460 

St.  Emilion,  256 

how  prepared,  220 

Chili  vinegar,  199 

St.  Julien,  256 

how  tested,  220 

Chimneys,  to  be  terted,  10 

Vin  de  Graves,  256 

native  of,  220 

China  bowl,  with  roses,  54 

where  grown,  255 

nibs,  220 

cheap,  38 

Clarifying  sugar,  227 

nut,  84 

closet,  the,  41 

Clarke,  Dr.,  on  ferns,  180 

nut  matting,  to  clean  from 

expensive,  38 

Claws  to  be  cut  of  old  canaries, 

grease,  334 

orange  juice,  243 

443 

nut  matting,  used  in  making 

taste  for  old,  41 

Cleaning  utensils  for  cook, 

57 

candles,  36 

to  mend,  49 

Clean  water  essential  for  fowls, 

nut  tree  syrup,  222 

to  wash,  40 

409 

quantity  per  head,  284 

General  Index. 


5™ 


Cocoa,  uses  of,  220 

when    brought    to   Europe, 
220 

where  grown,  220 
Cod,  146 

how  cooked,  147 

value  in  price,  147 

where  found,  147 
Coffee,  constituent  parts,  218 

berries,  to  keep,  219 

Brazilian,  218 

brought  to  London,  218 

Ceylon,  218 

cure  for  gout,  219 

dandelion,  219 

East  Indian,  21S 

effects  of,  219 

how  to  buy,  219 

how  to  make,  i3o 

how  to  make,  219 

in  the  dining-room,  303 

Javan,  218 

mixed  with  chicory,  219 

Mocha,  218 

native  of,  218 

pot,  curious,  46 

pure,  test  of,  178 

quantity  per  head,  ^84 

substitute  for,  219 

taraxacum,  180,  219 

tea,  how  made,  219 

to  be  stored,  196 

tree,  appearance  of,  219 

West  Indian,  218 

where  best  grown,  21 3 
Cold-blooded  animals,  63 
Cold  caudle,  246 
Cold  luncheon  for  a  large  summer 
party,  carte  for,  307 
Cold  punch,  246 

Colic    in    horses,    treatment  of, 
368 
Collar  of  potatoes,  164 
Collared  turtle  dove,  453 
Colour  for  a  lady's  horse,  361 
Colours,  primary,  13 

complimentary,  16 

contrasts  of,  15 

effects  of,  in  illness,  17 

fancies  of  patients  in  refer- 
ence to,  16 

green,  arsenical,  16 

harmony  of,  14 

opinions  of  Chevreul,  14 

secondary,  14 

tertiary,  14 
Colouring  for  jellies,  &c,  229 
Colza  oil,  how  to  test,  209 
Common  arum,  179 

marjoram,  176 
Communication  of  heat,  66 
Composite  candles,  86 
Composition  for  covering  corks, 
260 

how  to  make,  260 
Concussion  of  the  brain,  461 
Conferva  division,  121 
Conger   eels,   constituent  parts, 
150 

how  cooked,  150 
price  of,  150 


Conger  eels,  where  found,  150 
Congestion  of  the  lungs  in  horses, 
treatment  of,  363 
Congou  tea,  217 
Constantia,  217 
Consumption,  cure  for,  19S 
Conventional  excuse  to  visitors, 
3*7 
Conveyance,  expenses  of,  10 
Convulsions,  462 
Cool  cider  cup,  239 
Cool  tankard,  246 
Cooler  for  brewing,   description 
of,  266 
Coolers  for  beer,   how  to  keep, 
264 
best  lined  with  lead,  264 
for  da'ry,  390 
Cooling  cider  drink,  235 
Coop,  for  hen  with  chicks,  410 
Copper  and  brass,  to  clean,  388 

to  test  vinegar  for,  199 

copper  poisoning,  480 
Coppers,  two  required  for  brew- 
ing, 265 
Copyhold,  example  of,  9 
C  -rd.al  ginger,  246 
Cordon  JBleus,  small  birds,  450 
Corks  for  beer,  277 

how  to  select,  260 

improved  by  steeping,  26o_ 

to    be    covered   with    resin, 
260 

to  choose,  277 
Corn  chamber,  arrangement  of, 
256 
Corn,  how  to  buy,  356 
Corns,  461 

in  horses,  treatment  of,  325 
Cot    for    pigeons    should    face 
south, 423 
Cotton,  49 

a  preservative  of  fruit,  196 

for  candles,  85 
Country  seat,  314 

amusements  at,  315 

children  at,  315 

guest's  bedroom  at,  314 

invitation  to,  315 

length  of  visit,  314 

luncheon  at,  315 

maids'  assistance  at,  315 

rules  for  hostess  at,  314 

visitors  at,  314 
Country  visits,  313 
Court,  presentation  at,  321 

ladies  entitled  to,  321 

rules  for,  321 
Covers,  not  silver,  to  clean,  338 
Cows,  how  to  choose,  390 

Alderney,  391 

Ayrshire,  391 

breeds  of,  390 

casualties  common  to,  396 

cause  of  disease  in,  396 

Cheshire,  390 

consumption    of    food    by, 
392 

cost  of  keep  of,  392 

Devons,  390 

diseases  of,  394 


Cows,  Durham,  390 

Galloway,  391 

Hereford,  390 

Highland,  391 

Highland  Stots,  391 

Holderness,  390 

Irish,  391 

Kerry,  391 

Lancashire,  390 

medicines  for,  393 

Northumberland,  390 

price  of,  392 

Shetland,  391 

Shorthorn,  390 

Suffolk,  39T 

summer  treatment  of,  394 

Sussex,  390 

to  milk,  how  often,  402 

watchfulness    required    for, 
394 

Welsh,  391 

winter  food  for,  393 

Yorkshire,  390 
Cow-house,  the,    how  to   build, 
401 
Cowslip  mead,  251 
Cow-stalls,  how  to  arrange,  401 
Cows'-tails,  186 
Crabs,  how  judged,  152 
Cracked  heels  in  horses,   treat- 
ment of,  369 
Cramming  fowls,  411 

unnecessary  for  turkeys,  422 
Cramp,  ducks  subject  to,  419 
Cranberries,  in  season,  189 

uses  for,  190 

where  grown,  189 
Cranberry  water,  269 
Cray  fish,  154 
Cream,  128 

cheap,  a,  230 

cheese  405 

Devonshire  clotted,  128 

how    to    gather  for  butter, 
399 

rises  on  milk,  397 
Creator,  goodness  of,  2 
Crescent,  with  muslin,  25 
Cress,  vmegar,  200 
Cresses,  antiscorbutic,  178 
Cressy  soup,  171 
Cretonne  for  curtains,  25 
Crevecceur  fowls,  French,  415 

good  layers,  but  do  not  sit, 
4i5 

of  secondary  consideration, 

Crib-biting,  a  bad  habit  in  horses, 
366 
Crickets  or  beetles,  to  kill,  357 
Cross-breeding  of  canaries,  446 
Crosses  of  pheasants,  428 
Croup,  462 

Cruelty  sometimes  used  in  teach- 
ing goldfinches,  438 
Crystallised  red  oranges,  212 
Cubic  feet  of  air  necessary  for 
each  person,  6 
Cucumber,  in  season,  177 
contains,  177 
how  eaten,  177 


5*2 


General  Index. 


Cuisses  de  lapinsala  Maintenon, 
144 
Cultivation  of  the  potato,  160 

experiments  in,  161 

Mr.  Phillips  on  the,  161 
Cup.  ale,  239 

champagne,  236 

cider,  239 

claret,  236 

claret,  expensive,  235 

cool  cider,  239 

loving,  237 

Moselle,  237 

porter,  236 

red  wine,  237 

sparkling  wine,  237 

the  "Blues,"  236 
Curacoa,  248 

Curb    in    horses,    treatment    of, 

36Q 

Curb  bit,  the  description  of,  383 

advantage  of,  303 
Curcuma  root,  204 
Curds  and  whey,  to  make,  128, 
232 

from  milk,  397 
Currant,  qualities  of,  18S 

water,  234 
Currants  in  season,  190 

how  to  preserve,  190 

uses  for,  190 

where  grown,  190 
Curry  powder,  202 

adulterated  with,  202 

receipt  for,  202 

where  bought,  202 
Curtains  for  beds,  33 

for  windows,  33 

to  clean  and  lay  by,  33S 
Curtis,  Mr.,  on  sea  kale,  173 
Cutlets,  anchovy,  148 

a  la  Milanaise,  141 

lobster,  153 

with  sediment  of  tomato 
vinegar,  200 
Cut-throat  sparrow,  447 
Cyanogen,  in  horseradish,  174 
Cylinder,  bad  in  squirrel's  cage, 
43i 
Cypress  powder,  179 


T^ABS,  how  cooked,  146 
■"-^     Dace,  where  found,  151 
Dahl,  an  Eastern  dish,  169 

how  cooked,  169 
Dahlias,  as  ornaments,  54 
Daily    duties     of     the     house- 
mother, 281 
Dairy,  the,  observations  on,  389 

cleanliness  in.  389 

flooring  of,  389 

how  to  build,  3  !  1 

maid's  duties,  398 

shelving  of,  389 

situation  of,  3S9 

size  of,  389 

utensils  for,  389 

ventilation  of,  3^9 
Damages,  to  roof,  &c,  8 
Damp  cellar,  bad  for  beer,  270 


Damp  drawing-room,  294 
fatal  to  hatching,  413 
walls,  preparation  for,  12 
Dancus  carota,  171 
Dandelion,  as  salad,  180 
as  medicine,  1S0 
how  blanched,  180 
wine,  249 
Dark-coloured  turkeys,  the 

hardiest,  423 
Dark  houses  objectionable,  10 
Date,  constituent  parts  of,  211 
how  used,  211 
palm,  221 

sugar,  where  used,  221 
where  grown,  211 
Davy,  Sir  Humphry,  on  weather, 
105 
Day  shed  for  fowls,  40S 
Deal,  for  bedrooms,  26 
Decanter  warm,  for  port,  260 
Decanting  wine,  260 

proper  times  for,  260 
Defects  to  be  avoided  in  a  horse 
for  riding,  360 
in  horses,  bearable,  366 
to  be  avoided  in  horses,  3C6 
Dejeuner  a.  la  fourchette,  310 

dress  for,  304 
Deposit,  in  port,  consists  of,  261 

in  white  wine,  261 
Derbyshire  cheese,  1 29 
Description  of  dinner  a  la  Russe. 
296 
of  family  dinner,  297 
Dessert,  beneficial,  283 
dish  of  apples,  189 
Devon  cows,  390 
Devonshire  cream,  to  make,  345 

clotted  cream,  128 
Dew,  how  caused,  106 

evening,  injurious  to  health, 
106 
injurious   to  turkey   chicks, 
422 
Dextrin,  how  made,  268 
Diamond  sparrow,  447 
Diarrhoea,  463 

in  calves,  cure  for,  397 
Diastase,  in  barley,  118 

developed  in  malting,  =63 
in  malt,  118 
Diet,  494 

change  of,  for  fowls,  409 
in  relation  to  disease,  494 
Digitalis  poisoning,  475 
Digitigrade,  carnivora,  324 
Dilapidations,  10 
Dinner-parties,  290 

economy  in  ordering,  283 
how  to  arrange  for,  283 
kitchen,  283 
late,  283 
nursery,  203 
Dinners  a.  la  Russe,  291 
carte  for,  291 
how  to  lay,  291 
ornamentation  for,  291 
when  to  prepare,  291 
Dioptrics,  82 
Dips,  candles,  208 


Directions  for  brewing,  272 
Disease,  caused  by  over-feeding, 

attacks  beetroot,  164 

attacks  insects,  164 

attacks  silkworms,  164 

attacks  tomato,  164 

causes  of,  163 

in  cows,  how  caused,  396 

in  the  potato,  signs  of,  163 

of  canaries,  443 

of  the  potato,  163 

temperature  producing  it,  163 

to  be  avoided  in  horses,  360 

when  commenced,  163 
Diseases  of  cows,  395 

fever,  395 

foot  and  mouth  disease,  397 

hove  or  hoove,  395 

of  calves,  397 
diarrhoea,  397 
garget,  397 

of  fowls,  416 

of  turkeys,  422 

pleuro-pneumonia,  396 

wind,  396 
Dishes  for  selection  for  break- 
fast, 288 

for  dairy,  390 
Disinfection,  501 
Distillation,  who  invented,  261 

when  introduced    into    Eu- 
rope, 2C1 
Distilled  spirits,  261 

how  to  make.  261 
Divisions  of  fowl-house,  408 
Deer,  how  divided,  136 
Dhurra  plant.  222 
Dog-bites,  463 
Dog-cart,  the  price  of,  387 
Dog,  truffle,  183 

as  out-door  pet,  430 
Domestic  pets  as  home  friends, 
430 

care  of,  left  partially  to  ser- 
vants, 430 

cats,  430 

difficult    to    keep    cages  of 
clean,  430 

dogs,  430 

donkeys,  430 

in  captivity,  dormice,  430 

out-of-door,  ponies,  430 

pigeons,  430 

poultry,  430 

rabbits,  430 

squirrels,  430 

white  mice,  430 
Domestic  science,  56 
Dominican   bird,    where  found, 
448 
Donkeys,  as  out-door  pets,  430 
Door  mats,  21 
Doors  to  stable,  size  of,  352 
Dorking  fowls,  weight  of,  412 

Dr.  Bennett  on,  412 

five  toes,  412 

the   best   for   poultry  yard, 

412 

will  fatten  where  others  will 

starve,  413 


General  Index. 


513 


Dormice,  as  domestic  pets,  430 

Ducks,  bedding  for,  418 

Eggs,  consist  of,  213 

Dormouse,  habits  of,  431 

cover  their  nests,  419 

contain,  213 

a  hybernatmg  animal,  431 

eggs,  215 

constituent  parts,  213 

cage  for,  432 

eggs  reared  under  hens,  418 

Dr.  Hunter  on,  214 

food  for,  433 

good  in  a  garden,  418 

ducks,  215 

milk  good  for,  433 

must  ramble  about,  418 

for  hen  to  sit  on,  410 

Mr.   Wood  on  the  nest  of, 

number  of.  eggs  to  put  under 

goose,  214 

43i 

.a>  4i9 

how  to  keep,  426 

requires  warmth,  432 

pike   and   eels,    enemies  to, 

how  to  pack  for  travelling, 

sleeps  in  its  cage,  432 

419 

427 

sleeps  in  the  day,  432 

pond  not  necessary  for,  418 

how  to  preserve,  213 

sometimes  cannibals,  433 

price  of,  repays  for  trouble, 

how  to  test,  215 

very  nimble,  432 

418 

how  to  use,  214 

Dorset  butter,  129 

rats,  enemies  to,  418 

to  date,  197 

Double  broughams,  price  of,  384 

require  a  place   of  shelter. 

to  examine,  282 

Dough,  for  brown  bread,  123 

•     L-        ,                            4l8 

to  get  a  good  supply,  410 

how  to  raise,  98 

sit  thirty  days,  419 

to  preserve,  197 

to  mix,  123 

social  habits  of,  418 

M.  Burnouf  on,  214 

with  Indian  meal,  124 

subject  to  cramp,  419 

morning.  215 

with  potatoes,  124 

take  three  weeks  to  fatten. 

of  pea- hen,  colour  of,  425 

with  rice,  124 

419 

of  turkeys,  delicate,  423 

with  sago,  124 

to  choose,  142 

pickled,  216 

without  yeast,  123 

travel  far  from  home,  419 

rumbled,  215 

Doves,  collared  turtle,  453 

tub   sunk,    does   for  a  pond 

sulphur  in,  214 

description  of,  453 

for,  418 

the  hen's,  213 

diseases  of,  453 

when  begin  to  lay,  419 

to  keep,  216 

in  Germany,  453 

will  eat  anything,  418 

to  test,  282 

™g,  453 

Ducklings,   require   great    care, 

Turkey,  214 

stock,  453 

418 

when  to  save,  426 

turtle,  453 

great  cleanliness,  419 
have  no  feathers,  419 

white  of,  as  cement,  49 

Down,  for  pillows,  34 

Eggshells,  China,  43 

Drainage,  3 

should  not  take  to  the  water 

difficult  to  break,  411 

of  stables,  348 

early,  419 

Egyptian  candles,  85 

Drains,  landlord  liable  for,  3 

Duplex  lamp,  39 

Elder  wine,  249 

Drawing-room,  decoration,  22 

Durham  mustard,  201 

with  cider,  249 

furniture  for,  23 

Dust,  a  destroyer,  330 

Electrical  action,  58 

general  aspect  of,  23 

bins,  full,  are  dangerous,  62 

Electricity,  cause  of,  98 

ornaments  for,  23 

Dusters,  52 

nature  of,  98 

piano  for,  23 

Dutch  cheese,  129 

Eleme  raisins,  210 

Dress,  garden  party,  304 

porcelain,  marks  on,  47 

Emery  paper,  how  made,  209 

a  carriage,  321 

Duties  of  a  housemaid,  330 

cloth,  how  made,  209 

bride,  313 

to  the  poor,  322 

Emigrants'  soap,  207 

dejeuner,  304 

Duty  on  carriages,  388 

Encaustic  tiles,  for  walls,  331 

evening  party,  305 

on  horses,  388 

Endive,  where  native  of,  176 

morning  calls,  317 

on  man  servant,  388 

Batavian,  176 

riding,  320 

Duvets,  i.e.  down  coverlets,  34 

how  blanched,  176 

when  to,  304 

English     birds     should    not    be 

Dresden  candelabra,  45 

caged,  434 

china,  marks  on,  47 

finches  do  well  in  aviaries, 

Dressing-room     for    gentlemen. 

pAR-ACHE,  cure  for,  468 
*-'     Early  purple  orchis,  170 

434 

25 

gooseberry  wine,  258 

Dried  fish,  154 

how  prepared,  170 

Porcelain,  45 

fruits,  216 

uses  of,  170 

Porcelain,  materials  for,  48 

mushrooms,  228 

Earth,  fuller's,  210 

"  Entire,"  meaning  of,  273 

sage,  used  for  tea,  217 

East   Indian   coffee,    colour  of, 

Entree  cutlets,  141 

Drink,  for  sick-room,  246 

218 

Epileptic  fits  in  goldfinches,  439 

barley,  243 

pickle,  225 

Eringo  root,  157 

capillaire,  243 

Eau  de  Cologne,  effects  on  skin, 

candied,  180 

ginger,  cool,  236 

328 

Ermine,  fur  of  polecats,  325 

raspberry,  244 

Eau  de  vie,  Dantzic,  how  made, 

used  for  state  robes,  325 

raspberry  vinegar,  244 

262 

Essence  for  claret  cup,  247 

Dripping,  price  of,  140 

Economy  in  stable,  376 

of  malt,  how  to  make,  273 

gift  to  the  poor,  322 

Eel,  145 

Ether,  boiling  of,  97 

to  clarify,  282 

Eels,  where  found,  150 

acetic,  in  old  wine,  253 

uses  for,  282 

Effervescing  draughts,  94 

butyric,  in  old  wine,  253 

uses  of,  140 

Eggs,  247 

caprylic,  in  old  wine,  253 

Drowning,  480 

advice  on,  426 

cenanthic,  in  all  wines,  254 

Dry  wine,  how  caused,  253 

albumen,  in,  214 

Etiquette  for  lady,  walking,  320 

Ducks,  expense  of  keeping,  418 

and  tomatoes,  178 

for  dinner  party,  294 

a  good  house  for,  419 

as  food,  127,  214 

Evaporation  in  brewing,  278 

Aylesbury,  419 

au  gratin,  215 

Evelyn,  on  the  potato,  156 
L   L 

5H 


General  Index. 


Evening  amusement,    290 

Fig,  contains,  192 

Flour  of  mustard,  122 

amusements  at,  305 

food  for  swine,  192 

to  keep  well,  125 

parties,  304 

in  season,  192 

Flour-bin,  how  to  keep,  281 

party,  dress  for,  305 

water,  234 

Flowers  for  ornaments,  54 

refreshments  for,  305 

where  grown,  192 

on  breakfast  table,  287 

rules  for,  304 

Filbert,  in  season,  193 

Fluorine  in  teeth,  in 

supper  at,  305 

how  to  keep,  193 

Fluor  spar,  74 

Evergreens,  to  ice,  55 

where  grown,   193 

Fomentations,  483 

Exact  heat  necessary  for  mash- 

Fillet of  veal,  to  carve,  301 

Food,  use  of,  109 

ing  malt,  270 

Filter,  poor  man's,  94 

amount    needed    by    men, 

Expansion  of  water,  89 

Filters,  94 

109 

Experiments    in    cultivation    of 

Fine  weather  best  for  bottling, 

amount  needed   by  women, 

the  potato,  161 

259 

109 

Eye,  pupil  of,  75 

Fire,  68 

amount   needed  by    school- 

description of    diagram  of, 

a  purifier,  5 

boys,  109 

77 

blazing  burns  quickest,  69 

as  fuel,  58 

the  aqueous  humour  of,  75 

burns  badly  in  the  damp,  69 

beans,  374 

the  choroid  coat  of,  75 

clear,  most  economical,  69 

best  for  pigeons,  423 

the  cornea  of,  75 

combustion  of,  69 

bran,  374 

the  crystalline  lens  of,  75 

escape  from,  10 

carrots,  375 

the  eyelids,  75 

extinguished  by  water,  69 

chaff,  375 

the  iris  of,  75 

goes  out  in  summer,  69 

clover,  375 

the  retina  of,  75 

important  lesson  on,  70 

clover-hay,  373 

the  sclerotic  coat  of,  75 

increased  by  running,  72 

for  chaffinch,  440 

the  vitreous  humour  of,  75 

insurance  against,  8 

for  cows,  392 

Eyes,  of  cats,  contract  in  light, 

old-fashioned  way  of  making 

for  dormice,  433 

74 

up,  71 

for  ducks,  418 

dilate  in  the  dark,  74 

put  out  by  the  sun,  69 

for    fowls,     description    of, 

human,  75 

requires  air,  71 

409 

of  owls  dilate,  74 

rules  in  cases  of,  71,  72 

for  geese,  419 

of  tigers  dilate,  74 

to  extinguish,  346 

for  goldfinches,  437 

Fish  cloths,  53 

for  Guinea  fowls,  424 

contains,  145 

for  hatching  canaries,  443 

TTAINTING,  466 

*■       Family,  welfare  of,  1 

easy  of  digestion,  145 

for  hen  while  sitting,  410 

if  frozen,  90 

for  horses,  373 

Fantail  pigeons,  ornamental,  423 

injurious  out  of  season,  145 

for  hungry  bird  visitors,  434 

Faraday,  Professor,  on  candles, 

to  choose,  154 

for  laying  hens,  411 

88 

to  cut,  298 

for  silkworms,  193 

Fat,  required  for  food,  109 

to  preserve,  154 

for  siskins,  439 

Fattening  fowls,  411 

when  in  season,  151 

for  swine, 193 

poultry,  427 

Fisher  marten,  where  found,  324 

for  tame  squirrels,  431 

Favourite  goldfinch,    description 

Fishes,  respiration  of,  89 

for  turkey  chicks,  422 

of,  438 

Fitch,  fur  of  polecats,  325 

for  turkey  poults,  422 

Feathers,  for  beds,  34 

Fittings  for  stables,  348 

for  young  canaries,  445 

for  pillows,  34 

Fixtures,  9 

for  young  chickens,  410 

Feeding  bullfinches,  436 

what  may  be  removed,  10 

for  young  pheasants,  428 

chicks  of  pea  fowl,  426 

what  may  not  be  removed, 

bay,  373 

for  guinea-f  jwI,  424 

10 

in  dairies,  393 

of  horses,  376 

Flame,  colour  of  candle,  87 

lucerne,  375 

Felis  canadensis,  328 

products  of  candle,  87 

oats,  373 

Fennel,  178 

shape  of  candle,  87 

proper  for  fowls,  411 

when  to  gather,  178 

Flavour  of  fruit,  195 

quantity     of,     for     horses. 

Fermentation,  97 

Flax,  seeds  of,  84 

376 

bad  yeast  obstructs,  273 

Flaxen  canary,  446 

quantity  of,  for  ponies,  377 

effects  on  malt  liquors,  97 

Flesh  formers,  table  of,  118 

requires  albumen,  109 

for  cider,  280 

white,  in  fowls,  how  to  get, 

requires  fat,  109 

in  bread,  98 

411 

requires  fibrin,  109 

of  beer,  273 

Flies,  to  get  rid  of,  341 

requires  gluten,  109 

of  beer,  signs  of,  279 

Floating  island,  231 

requires  saline  matters,  109 

weather  best  for,  273 

Floorcloth,  21 

requires  starch,  109 

Fermenting    tun,    for    brewing, 

to  clean,  333 

requires  sugar,  109 

266 

Flooring  for  dairy,  389 

tares,  375 

Fern  leaves,  elegant,  55 

Flounder,  146 

to  fatten  geese,  420 

Ferns,  in  ale,  180 

most  digestible,  145 

vetches,  375 

eatable,  180 

Flour,  113 

white  peas,  374 

how  cooked,  180 

adulterated,  116 

Foot-and-mouth-disease  in  cattle, 

Fever  in  cows,  cure  for,  395 

American,  116 

cure  for,  397 

Fibrine  in  the  eye,  75 

consists  of,  113 

Foreign  finches,  446 

in  flour,  113 

differences  in,  116 

food  for,  446 

Fibrin,  required  in  food,  109 

from  chestnuts,  116 

Fore  quarter  of  lamb,  to  carvp, 

Fig,  constituent  parts,  211 

grown,  125 

300 

General  Index. 


515 


Form    of    presentation    to     the 
Queen,  322 

for  a  commoner,  322. 

for  a  peeress,  322 
Fowl-house,  407 

cleanliness  in,  408 

divisions  of,  408 

hatches  in,  408 

how  to  build,  408 

how  to  roof,  408 

materials  for,  408 

materials  for  floor  of,  408 

moveable,  409 

perches  for,  408 

ventilation  of,  408 
Fowls,  barn-door,  412 

bantams,  416 

baths  for,  408 

Bramah  Pootra,  412 

Cochin  China,  412 

cold  to  re-warm,  282 

constituent  parts,  142 

Crevecceur,  415 

diseases  of,  416 

Dorking,  412 

flesh,  to  get  white,  411 

food  for,  411 

food  for,  described,  409 

fond   of   grass   and-  vegeta- 
bles, 409 

game,  413; 

Hamburg.  414 

la  Fleche,  415 

Malay,  413 

moulting,  how  to  keep,  418 

Polish,  414 

pure  breed  desired,  408 

require  change  of  diet,  409 

require  rue,  410 

require  wormword,  410 

Spanish,  412 

theHoudon,  416 

to  cram,  411 

to  fatten,  411 

to  feed,  409 
Fox,  red,  328 

an  enemy  to  turkeys,  422 

black,  328 

blue,  328 

glove  poisoning,  475 

hounds  to  hunt,  378 

silver,  328 
Franklm,  Dr.,  on  absorbents,  67 

on  electricity,  98 
Freedom,  best  for  squirrels,  430 
Freehold  preferable,  reasons  for, 

9 
French  beans,  to  preserve,  171 

bread,  to  make,  126 

plums,  203 

plum  water,  234 

polish,  27 

polish,  to  make,  337 

polished  furniture,  to   keep 
in  order,  336 

porcelain,  46 

sable,  324 
Fresh  air,  482 
Fresh  fruits,  187 

Dr.  Cameron  on,  187 
Friction  generates  heat,  57 


Fried  cauliflower,  American,  168 
Fritters,  orange,  229 

arrowroot,  229 

parsnip,  171 

pink,  229 

raspberry,  230 
Frontignac,  Rhone  wine,  256 
Fruit,  required  in  summer,  62 

to  preserve  in  cotton,  196 
Fruits,  dried,  210 
Fuel,  component  parts  of,  68 

carbon,  a  solid  part  of,  68 

hydrogen,  gaseous  part  of. 
68 

hydrogen,   gaseous  part   of, 

69 
nitrogen,       non-combustible 
part  of,  69 
oxygen,  pure  air  of,  69 
Full  dress  for  balls,  307 
Fuller's  earth,  use  of ,  210 

used  to  clean  dairy  utensils. 

rurmity,  311 
Furnishing,  19 

taste  in,  19 
Furniture,    in    London    conven- 
tional, 19 

for  dining-room,  22 

may  be  hired,  19 

polish,  to  make,  337 
Furs,  what  they  are,  323 

Astrakan,  328 

beaver,  326 

chinchilla,  328 

ermine,  325 

fox,  328 

how   to   clean   and  prepare, 

how  to  preserve,  328 
lynx,  328 
miniver,  325 
m.nx,  324 

polecat  or  fitch,  325 
sable  the  most  valuable,  324 
seal,  327 
squirrel,  328 
Tartar  sable,  325 
when  first  used  in  England, 
323 


riALLOWAY  COWS,  391 
^-*     Game,   to    preserve   large, 
140 
fowls,  pure  British,  413 
description  of,  414 
eggs,  delicious,  414 
incomparable  for  flavour, 

4Z3 
spiteful,  spirited,  413 

pie,  144 

to  keep  from  tainting,  140 
Gapes,  very  fatal  in  fowls,  417 

caused  by  a  worm,  417 

remedy  for,  417 
Garget  in  calves,  cure  for,  397 
Garlic,  173 

cil  of,  174 

vinegar,  199 
Gas,  to  warm  rooms  a  mistake,  7 


Gas,  light  from,  40 

a  bad  conductor  of  heat,  69 

cooking  stoves,  37 

effect  of,  on  steel  pens,  41 

objectionable  in  aviaries,  457 
Gay,  John,  on  the  potato,  156 
Gay-Lussac's  process,  86 
Geese,  the  least  expensive,  419 

called  cogmags,  420 

food  for,  419 

food,  to  fatten,  420 

green,  fetch  high  price,  420 

habits  of,  419 

manner  of  plucking,  420 

market  for,  in  London,  420 

Pennant  on, 420 

sit  thirty  days,  419 

social  habits  of,  420 

Strasbourg  livers,  142 

to  choose,  142 

when  best  to  fatten,  420 

when  plucked,  420 

where  reared,  420 

white  and  grey,  419 
Gelatine,  how  made,  206 

caps  to  preserve,  197 

h>w  to  test,  206 

in  bones,  132 

in  the  eye,  82 

uses  of.  206 
George  IV.,  milk  punch,  245 
German  canary,  description  of, 
446 

greens,  167 
Germans    teach    bullfinches    to 
sing,  436 
Gerrard  on  the  potato,  157 
Getting  into  a  carriage,  321 
Gig,  the  price  of,  387 
Gilding,  to  clean,  340 
Giit    lamp,    or    chandeliers,    to 
clean,  335 
Gin  (best),  analysis  of,  261 

how  flavoured,  262 

how  obtained,  262 

much  adulterated,  262 

(retail),  analysis  of,  261 

the  worst  spirit  to  drink,  262 

why  named,  262 
Ginger,  as  a  poultice,  204 

beer,  94 

constituents,  203 

cool  drink,  236 

cordial,  246 

good  for  gcut,  204 

ground,  204 

how  preserved,  203 

preserved,  204 

where  grown,  203 

wine,  250 
Gingerette,  243 
Girasole,  176 
Girth  butter   boaids,  for  dairy, 

39° 
Glass,  cheap,  37 

bottles,  for  pickles,  226 
cement  for,  341 
cloths,  52 

size,  and  number  of,  52 
washing  of,  52 
expensive,  37 

L   L   2 


Si6 


General  In  y*x. 


Glass,  for  summer,  55 

Grapes,  how  pressed,  253 

Guinea    fowls,    inexpensive    to 

for  winter,  55 

how  to  preserve,  195 

_                           keep,  424 

half  rings,  55 

juice,  98 

lay  in  April,  424 

paper,  how  made,  209 

sometimes  trodden,  253 

peculiar  call  of.  425 

paper,  to  make,  209 

uses  for,  195 

require  careful  feeding,  424 

to  clean,  334 

when  gathered  for  wine,  253 

sit  twenty-six  days,  424 

Gloucester  cheese,  129 

where  grown,  195 

substitute  for  pheasant,  425 

how  to  make,  401 

Grate,  fixing  of,  70 

time    of    sitting    uncertain, 

Glue,  80 

advantage  of  open,  71 

424 

Gluten,  98 

proper  position  for,  70 

treatment  of  chicks  of,  424 

how  to  detect,  no 

Gravel,  best  for  cleaning  bottles. 

very  delicate,  424 

in  flour,  113 

260 

want  watching,  424 

required  for  food,  109 

Grayling,  146 

where  roost,  425 

Glycerine,  86 

Grease,  for  rushlights,  85 

Gum,  114 

elastic,  197 

spots,  to  remove  from  wall- 

Gunpowder tea,  217 

soap,  197 

paper,  332 

Gurnard,  where  caught,  147 

to  apply,  197 

to  remove  from  carpets,  333 

Gypsum,  in  water,  93 

Goitre,  nettles  remedy  for,  179 

Greasy    cocoa-nut     matting,    to 

to  purify  stables,  353 

Gold  crested  wren,  456 

clean,  334 

Golden  pheasant,  blaze  of  splen- 

Grebe, where  found,  328 

dour. 

43° 

skin,  to  prepare,  328 

TLJABITS  OF  SISKINS,  439 
1  A     Hack,  how  to  choose  a,  360 

Goldfinch,    the,   a  universal 

fa- 

to  clean,  328 

vourite, 

437 

trimmings,  328 

Haddock,  145,  146 

bath  necessary  for,  439 

Greek  wines,  258 

how  cooked,  147 

cruelty  practised  on,  438 

Cyprus,  258 

price  of,  147 

cure  for  epileptic  fits  in, 

439 

Kephisia,  258 

Hail,  92 

description   of  special  gold- 

Mount Hymet,  258 

Haircloths,  for  making  cider,  279 

finch, 

438 

Patras,  258 

contains  silica,  111 

fond  of  hempseed,  437 

Green  Canary  of  Teneriffe,  446 

Hake,  146 

food  for,  437 

cheese,  406 

how  cooked,  147 

learns  accomplishments, 

437 

how  to  make,  406 

where  caught,  147 

patience  and  kindness  neces- 

Greenfinches,   brought     up    by 

Hakes,  146 

sary  in  teaching. 

438 

hand, 435 

Half-hour  candles,  208 

subject  to  epileptic  fits,  439 

food  for,  435 

Halibut,  146 

very  easily  tamed,  437 

very  bold  birds,  435 

Halo,  104 

very  restless,  437 

Green  geese,  high  price  of,  420 

Ham,  137 

very  tractable,  437 

gooseberry  water,  234 

how  to  use,  282 

will   live    many   years 

n   a 

leaves  healthy,  60 

to  carve,  302 

cage, 

437 

soap,  207 

to  keep,  282 

Goldwasser,  peculiarity  of,  262 

tea,  how  dried,  217 

Hams,  to  keep  in  charcoal,  139 

Gommuti  palm,  221 

Grey-and-white  mice,  caged,  433 

Hamburg  fowls,  varieties  of,  414 

Good  air  gives  good  appetite 

62 

canary,  446 

black,  good  layers,  414 

King  Henry,  as  spinach 

180 

geese,  419 

description  of,  414 

Goodness  of  the  Creator,  2 

parrot,  451 

pencilled,  description  of,  414 

Goose  eggs,  214 

Griddle  cakes,  with  water,  126 

spangled,  description  of,  414 

to  carve,  303 

Groats,  used  for  gruel,  116 

Hanoverian  bridle,  the,  383 

Gooseberries,  in  season,  191 

Groom,  character  requisite  for  a, 

Hard  water,  90 

constituent  parts,  191 

37i 

spoils  malt,  270 

how  to  preserve,  191 

duties  of  a,  371 

to  make  soft,  94 

uses  for,  191 

wages  of  a,  372 

Hare,  cold,  to  jug,  282 

where  to  grow,  191 

Ground  rice,  204 

jugged,  143 

Gooseberry  wine,  251 

ginger,  adulterations,  204 

soup,  143 

Gourds,  mammoth,  176 

rent,  8 

to  carve,  302 

Gout,  ginger  good  for,  204 

uses  of,  204 

to  know  if  young,  143 

Grafting  potatoes,  166 

Grouse,  season  for,  142 

Harness  for  saddle-horses,  381 

Grains  used  for  feeding  cows 

and 

dressed  with  vine  leaves,  253 

breast-plate,  382 

pigs 

267 

where  found,  142 

bridle,  383 

malt,  left  from  brewing 

273 

Grown  flour,  description  of,  125 

for  carriage  horses,  price  of, 

Grandmother,  reminiscences 

of, 

Gruel,  made  of  groats,  116 

388 

329 

Gruyere  cheese,  129 

how  to  arrange,  355 

a  perfect  housekeeper,  329 

Hudgeon,  where  found,  151 

how  to  clean,  3S8 

Grandmother's  strips,  215 

Guests,  bedroom,  314 

how  to  fit,  388 

Grape,  qualities  of,  188 

invited  to  wedding,  313 

martingale,  383 

sugar  in  barley,  118 

Guinea  fowls,  ramble,  424 

room,  size  of,  355 

sugar  in  malt,  118 

appearance  of  deceptive,  425 

saddles,  381 

Grapes  in  season,  195 

difference  between  the  cock 

Harvest-mouse,  food  for,  434 

a  cure  for  consumption, 

195 

and  hen,  425 

mouse,  caged,  433 

constituent  parts,  195 

flavour  of,  424 

nest  for,  434 

fermentation  of,  how  caused, 

food  f  1  >r,  424 

size  of,  433 

353 

impossible  to  discover  nests 

Hassall,  Dr.,  on  sugar,  222 

how  gathered,  253 

of,  424 

Hatches  in  fowl-house,  408 

General  Index. 


5*7 


Hatching,  damp  fatal  to,  410 

time  for,  410 
Haunch   of   venison,    to    carve, 
303 
Hay,   the  best  only  for  horses, 

373 

loft,  arrangement  of,  356 

price  of,  373 

to  keep  in  loft,  356 
Headache,  466 
Hearth-rugs,  21 
Heat,  conduction  of,  66 

absorption  of,  67 

air  a  bad  conductor  of,  66 

air  heated  by  convection  of, 
68 

atmosphere  heated  by  con- 
vection of,  68 

black  lead  the  best  radiate  r 
of,  68 

charcoal,    a    non-conductor 
of,  67 

convection  of,  68 

earth  a  bad  conductor  of,  66 

effect  of,  on  ice,  57 

for  first  mash,  271 

for  second  ma^h,  271 

for  third  mash,  271 

givers,  67 

ivory  a  non-conductor  of,  67 

liquids  expand  with,  63 

metal  a  conductor  of,  66 

on  growth  of  plants,  57 

on  water,  57 

opinions    of     Dr.     Odling. 
63 

polish,  non-radiator  of,  68 

p  ilish  reflects,  68 

porous   bodies   bad  conduc- 
tors of,  66 

radiation  of,  68 

reflection  of,  68 

water  heated  by  convection 
of,  68 

wool  and  furs,  bad  conduc- 
tors of,  66 
Heated  and  cold  air,  5 
Heat  of  water  for  mashing  malt, 
270 
Helebore  poisoning,  476 
Helper  in  stable,  371 
Hemlock  poisoning,  476 
Hemp,  seeds  of,  8| 
Hempseed,     favourite     food     of 
goldfinches,  437 
Hen,  to  sit,  to  choose,  410 

age,  to  sit  a,  410 

ciucking,  410 

eggs,  213 

eggs  for,  to  sit  on,  410 

nest  for,  410 

to  feed  while  sitting,  410 

to  sit  on  other  eggs,  410 

turkey,  a  bad  mother,  422 

under  a  coop,  410 

ware,  187 
Henbane  poisoning,  476 
Herb  mixture,  228 

tea,  243 
Herbs,  how  to  gather,  176 

how  to  dry,  176 


Herbs,  pot,  175 

sweet,  175 
Hereford  cows,  390 
Heriot,    Thomas,    describes   the 
potato,  155 
Hermitage  Rhone  wine,  256 
Herring,  145 

constituent  parts,  148 

description  of  fishery,  148 

how  cooked,  148 

price  of,  148 

where  caught,  148 
Highland  cows,  391 

stots,  391 
Hind  quarter  of  lamb,  to  carve, 
300 
Hints  on  milking,  402 
Hips,  for  jam,  178 

when  to  gather,  178 
Hired  house,  3 

waiters,  291 
Hiring  houses,  7 
Hock,  256 

constituent  parts  of,  252 

name,  how  derived,  256 

Rhine  wine,  256 

Steinberger,  257 
Hollands,  a  gin  from  Schied?m, 
262 
Hominy,  127 

description  of,  127 

to  cook,  127 
Honey,  how  extracted,  223 

cakes,  224 

cakes,  American,  223 

contains,  223 

ferments  into  spirits,  223 

flavoured  by,  223 

noyau,  224 

poisoned  by,  223 

soap,  207 

to  keep,  223 
Hop,  the,  constituents  of,  179 

the  best  for  porter,  277 

tops,  how  cooked.  179 
Hope.  Dr.,  experiments  of,  89 
Hops,  where  native  of,  179 

called  a  wicked  weed,  263 

how  dried,  179 

how  kept,  269 

how  to  renovate,  269 

new  the  best  for  beer,  269 

pillow,  179 

should  be  kept  dry,  269 

used  in  making  ale,  179 

when    first    used     for     ale. 
263 

when  gathered,  179 

when  gathered,  269 

where  cultivated,  179 

where  cultivated,  269 

where  introduced  from,  263 

which  best,  269 

wild,  how  cooked,  179 
Horned  pheasant,  where  found, 
429 
Horse,  how  to  purchase,  358 

a  day's  work  for  a,  360 

blankets  or  rugs,  358 

care  in  choosing  a,  359 

carriage,  where  bred,  363 


Horse,  character  of  the,  347 

chestnut,  194 

clothing,  358 

clothing,  how  to  make,  358 

cost  of  keeping  a,  360 

dressing  of.  372 

duties  towards,  347 

duty  on,  388 

flannel  bandages,  358 

f  >'  d  for,  373 

how  to  use,  358 

mounting  a,  320 

points  of  a,  359 

price  of  a,  359 

roller,  358 

suit  of  body  clothing.  358 

the.  most  useful  animal,  347 
Horseradish,  use  of,  174 

how  kept,  174 

oil,  175 

vinegar,  199 
Horses  are  subject  to  corns,  367, 
37o 

accidents,  368 

advantage  of  clipping,  379 

best  time  to  clip.  379 

best  time  to  singe,  379 

bone  spavin.  370 

broken  knees,  368 

bucking,  380 

capped  hGcks,  366 

chronic  cough,  367 

colic,  369 

colour  best  for.  364 

c  ngestion  of  the  lungs,  368 

cracked  heels.  369 

crib-biting,  366 

curb,  369 

description  of,  364 

diseased  eyes,  366 

enlargement   of    the  joints, 

367 
for  light  harness.  364 
heavy  harness,  364 
how  to  feed,  376 
how  to  shoe,  380 
how  used,  364 
influenza,  367 
jibbing,  380 
kicking,  380 
lameness,  369 
laminitis,  367 
loose  weak  neck,  366 
megrims,  367 
price  of,  364 
qualities  of.  364 
roaring,  367 
running  away,  3S0 
shying,  381 
splints.  369 
strains,  370 
stringhalt,  366 
swelled  legs,  369 
thrush,  368 
to  clip  or  singe,  379 
to  exercise,  378 
to  work,  378 
twisted  forelegs,  360 
unnerved,  367 
vanicular  disease,  367 
vices  of,  380 


5'8 


General  Index. 


Horses,  what  suitable  for,  364 

wind-sucking,  366 
Hospitality,  290 
Hot  both  for  canaries,  443 
Houdon      fowls,      not      recom- 
mended, 416 
House,   necessity  to    go    round 
each  day,  329 
cleaning,  331 
linen,  to  mark,  50 
the  pride  of  English  women 
and  Scotch,  50 
consists  of,  50 
good  quantity,  51 
medium  quantity  of.  50 
smallest  quantity  of,  50 
Housekeeper's  room,  25 
Housekeeping,  different  to  what 
it  was,  329 
fixed  sum'for,  285 
not  what  it  should  be,  329 
House  mother,  109 

daily  duties  of,  281 
duties  of  the,  109 
House-tax,  8 

Hove,   or  hoove,  in  cows,  cure 
for,  395 
How  to   make   a    thermometer, 
64 
to  keep  receipts,  286 
Huckaback,  for  towels,  51 
Hudson  Bay,  table,  324 

Company,  323 
Humulus  germanicus,  277 

lupulus,  269 
Hungarian  wines,  white  and  red, 
258 
Chablis,  258 
Hunger,    increased    by    cleanli- 
ness, 63 
Hunt,  Leigh,  on  flowers,  287 
Hunter,  how  to  choose,  361 
ladies',  361 
qualities  of  a,  362 
the,  361 
Hunter,  jJr.,  on  eggs,  214 
amount  of  work  for,  362 
directions    for     summering:, 

377 

exercise  of  a,  378 

price  of,  362 

when  to  take  up,  378 

when  to  turn  out,  377 

work  of  a,  378 
Hunting  groom,  duties  of  a,  371 
Hydrochloric  acid,  to  test  silk, 
323 
Hydrogen,  as  fuel,  68 

required  mere  in  winter,  62 
Hydromel,  distilled  from  honey, 
223 
Hyson-skin  tea,  217 
Hyson  tea,  217 


JCE 


at  balls,  307 
Dr.  Schwarz  on,  232 
for  flowers,  55 
how  produced,  232 
lighter  than  water,  90 


Ice,  to  keep,  232 

uses  for,  232 
Imperial,  242 

tea,  217 

water,  246 
Impeyan  pheasant,  where  found, 
429 

description  of,  429 
Implements    required    for    bot- 
tling, 260 

how  to  be  used,  260 
Impure  air,  danger  of,  4 
Inability  to  see  visitors,  317 
Indian  corn  or  maize,  119 

constituent  parts  of,  119 

corn-meal   for   laying  hens, 
411 

kebobs,  141 

meal,  in 

meal  with  dough,  124 

spatchcock,  144 
Indigestion,  467 
Indigo,  208 

bird,  where  found,  448 

Inflammation   of    the    lungs    in 

fowls,  417 

Influenza    in    horses,    treatment 

of,  367 

Ink,    to    remove    from    carpets, 

333 
spots,  to  take  out,  341 
stains,   to  remove  from  sil- 
ver, 340 
to  take  out  of  boards,  341 
Insects,     attacked     by     potato 
blight,  164 
Instantaneous  beer,  242 
Insurance,  7 

increased  by  paraffin,  209 
Introduction,  1 
at  a  ball,  318 
at  an  evening  party,  318 
introduction      at      morning 
calls,  317 
rules  for,  317 
Iodine  in  laminaria,  186 
Irish  cheese,  129 
cows,  391 

hunter,  description  of,  362 
Iron,   to  distinguish  from  steel, 
334 
bedsteads,  33 
to  test  vinegar  for,  199 
curtains  for,  33 
fringe  for  curtains,  33 
mattresses  for,  33 
Isinglass   for   fining    beer,    how 
dissolved,  268 
for  fining  wine,  260 
how  made,  206 
imported  from,  206 
Russian,  229 
Italian  oven,  123 
proverb,  n 


7AGGERY,  221 
J      Jam,  carrot,  171 
Jams,  to  make,  227 
how  to  keep,  156 
to  keep,  227 


Japanese  china,  43 

pheasant,  plumage  of,  429 
Japanned  waiters,  urns,  &c,  to 
clean,  336 
Java  sparrow,  description  of,  447 

food  for,  447 
Jellies,  to  make,  227 
Jelly  bags,  53 
Jerusalem  artichokes,  159 

where  native  of,  176 
Jibbing  of  horses,  380 

how  to  cure,  381 
John  Dory,  147 

where  caught,  147 
Johnston,  Mr.,  on  food,  in 
Johnston,  Professor,  on  fish,  145 
Joints  most  profitable  for  family 
use,  139 
of  beef  for  roasting,  133 
for  boiling,  133 
for  frying,  133 
for  puddings  or  pies,  133 
for  salting,  133 
for  stewing,  133 
soup  or  gravy,  133 
of  mutton,  to  roast,  135 
to  boil,  135 
to  fry  and  boil,  135 
to  salt,  135 
to  stew,  135 
of  pork  to  roast,  137 
to  fry,  137 
to  salt  or  boil,  137 
of  veal  for  roasting,  135 
for  boiling,  135 
for  frying,  135 
for  pie,  135 
for  soup,  135 
for  stewing,  135 
of  venison  to  roast,  136 
for  pasties,  136 
Jones,  Professor,  on  lobsters,  151 
J<  nques  canary,  446 
Jordan  almonds,  210 
Jugged  hare,  143 


KALENDARIUM      PLAN- 
TARUM,  156 
Kalydor  soap,  207 
Kangaroo,  description  of,  222 

tail  soup,  223 
Kebobs,  Indian,  141 
Keeping   Guinea  fowl  inexpen- 
sive, 424 

pigeons  profitable,  423 
Kicking  of  horses  dangerous,  380 

how  to  cure,  380 
Kidney  beans,  170 

potatoes,  list  of,  162 
Kiln  used  for  drying  malt,  268 
Kippered  salmon,  154 
Kissing  comfits,  157 
Kitchen,  to  visit,  283 

dinner,  283 

furniture,  35 

furniture  for  large  house,  36 

tablecloths,  52 

utensils,  list  of,  35 
Kitchener,   Dr.,   on   marketing, 
285 


General  Index. 


5*9 


Kitcheners,  37 

Knitted  dumpling  cloths,  52 

rugs,  21 
Knowledge  of  carving  necessary, 
297 

of  natural  laws,  56 
Kohl  rabis,  167 
Kolcannon,  167 

Kolinski,  furnishes  sable  pencils 
for  artists,  326 
Koumis,  Tartar  beer,  278 
Kreatin,  a  tonic,  131 


T  ABURNUM  POISONING, 

.    .  477 

Lachrymse  Christi,  258 
1  acquered  brass,  to  clean,  338 
Lactic  acid,  121 
Lactometer,  128 
Lactu  carium,  174 
Lactucin,  174 

Ladies  retire    to    the    drawing- 
room,  297 
horse,  the,  360 
how  to  choose,  360 
qualities  necessary  in,  360 
Lady's-maid's  room,  25 
La  Fleche  fowls,  French,  415 
description  of,  415 
lay  large  eggs,  415 
Lamb,  constituent  parts,  135 
cold,  with  lettuce,  282 
how  divided,  136 
how  to  choose,  135 
price  of,  136 

sweetbreads,  larded,  141 
Lamb's  wool,  311 
Lameness   in   horses,    treatment 
of,  369 
Laminaria  digitata,  185,  186 
Mrs.  Lane  Clarke  on,  186 
saccharina,  185,  186 
uses  for,  186 
where  found,  186 
Lamprey,  fresh  water,  151 

where  found,  150 
Lamps,  39 

anucapnic,  39 
argand,  88 
duplex,  39 
gas,  39 
glasses,  88 
moderator,  39 
of  life,  58 
oil.  84 
paraffin,  39 
petroleum,  39 
reading,  39 

to  prevent  smoking,  40 
Lancashire  cows,  390 
Land  breeze,  when  coolest,  106 
Land  cre?s,  oil  in.  178 
Landlord,  liable  for  drains,  3 
Landrails,  143 
Land-tax,  8 
Lapis  Heracleus,  107 
adulterations  of,  139 
chemical  tests,  139 
nature  of,  139 
nauticus,  108 


Lapis  Heracleus,  uses  of,  139 
Larks,  143 

best  free,  434 
macedoine  of,  143 
Laver,  185 

Laying  down  wine,  259 
Laying  places  for  ducks,  419 
Lead,      to      test     vinegar     for, 
228 
poisoning,  480 
used  for  lining  beer-coolers. 
264 
Leaden  cisterns  injurious,  9 
Leasehold,  reversion  of,  9 
i  Leases,  expensive,  7 
Leaves    and    sprays,    to    frost. 
•   .  56 

Leaves  of  tea  nutritious,  218 

radiate  heat,  106 
Leeches,  486 

Leeks,  where  native  of,  173 
Leg  of  mutton,  to  carve,  329 

of  pork,  to  carve,  301 
Leicester  cheese,  476 
how  to  make,  405 
Leigh  Hunt  on  bedrooms,  31 
Lemonade,  237,  238,  239 
shrub,  247 

that    has    flavour    of   jelly, 
238 
to  be  made  the  day  before 
wanted,  238 
Lemon    juice,     to     keep,     213, 
237 
candied,  213 
peel,  preserved,  212 
Lemons,  in  season,  212 
contain  citric  acid,  212 
how  kept,  212 
how  to  keep,  197 
skins  as  cleansers,  229 
syrup,  240 
tea,  232 

thyme,  how  to  keep,  175 
uses  for,  212  „ 

water,  239 
when  to  buy,  197 
whey, 238 
Lentils,  constituent  parts,  169 
for  soup,  169 
how  cooked,  169 
Le    Padda,    ou    oiseau    de    riz, 
447 
Lessee,  liable  for  rent  after  ex- 
piration of  lease,  8 
Letheby,  Dr.,  on  choosing  meat, 
137 
on  fish,  147 
on  poultry,  142 
Letter-writing,  etiquette  of.  318 
Letters  of  introduction,  rules  for, 
3iS 
Lettuce,  in  season,  173 
properties  of,  173 
where  grown,  173 
Leveret,  143 
Library,  23 

furniture  for,  23 
necessaries  for,  23 
ornaments  for,  23 
Liebig's  extract,  224 


Liebig  on  theine,  218 
Light,  72,  482 

acts  on  the  eye,  74 

analogy  to   musical  sounds, 
72 

coloured  rays  of,  74 

contains  the  colours  of  the 
rainbow,  83 

Dr.  Tyndall  on,  73 

experiments  on  vibration  of, 

73 
fatigues  a  cat  s  eye,  74 

important  to  bathers,  82 

most    important    to    health, 

83 
moves  swiftly,  74 
rapidity  of  motion  of,  73 
rays  of  reflected,  83 
refraciion  of,  82 
sources  of,  74 
theory  or,  57 
vibrations  of,  72 
Lights,  first  used,  84 

for  stable,   how  to  arrange, 
352 
Lightning  cause  of,  99 
a  disinfectant,  100 
effects  of,  99 
effect  of  on  milk,  99 
metals     as     conductors     of, 
100 
the  cause  of  blindness,  74 
Lima  beans,  170 

Lime  water,    to   preserve    eggs, 
426 
wood,  27 
Lincolnshire,    geese    reared    in, 
420 
Lindley,    Professor,    on  the  po- 
tato, 159 
Linen,  49 

care  in  arranging,  49 
closet,  contents  of,  49 
marking,  53 
press,  48 

press,  articles  to  be  kept  in, 
53 
Ling,  146 

how  cured,  147 
Linnets,    brought    up   by   hand, 
435 
Liqueurs,  how  made,  262 

to  keep,  239 
Liquor  of  beer,  time  for  boiling, 
to  try,  272 
Lithophanes,  45 

Litter  in  stables,  to  economize. 
376 
Lizard  canary,  446 
Loadstone,  107 

discovered,  107 
value  of,  107 
Loaves,  time  to  bake,  124 
Lobster,  broiled,  231 
cutlets,  153 
price  of,  152 
Locality  of  house,  3 
Lock  for  turkey-house,  422 
Lodgers'  goods,  12 

inventory  necessary  in  case 
of  distraint,  12 


General  Judex. 


Lodgers'  goods,  illegal   distress 

Malt,  black,  bitter,   268 

Marseilles  soap,  207 

on,  13 

brown,  less  sweet,  268 

Martela  saxorum,  324 

Lodgings,  12 

four  sorts  of,  268 

Martingale,  use  of,  383 

furnished,  12 

how  adulterated,  268 

Masdeu,  254 

objections  to,  12 

how  to  make,  118 

an  excellent  wine,  254 

unfurnished,  12 

how  to  grind,  269 

Mashes,  to  steep,  how  long,  272 

London  fancy  prize  canary,  446 

how  to  test,  268 

Mashtub,   for   brewing,  descrip- 

market for  geese,  420 

liquors  affected  by  fermen- 

tion of,  265 

Looking  glass,  a  reflector,  83 

tation 

,  97 

for   brewing,  how   to   keep, 

glasses  to  clean,  339 

pale,  sweetest,  268 

264 

Loose-box,  size  of,  352 

process  of  making,  268 

for  malt,  118 

Lord  Chamberlain's  regulations, 

weight  of,  268 

Materials  for  feeding  a  family, 

321 

what  made  from,  268 

286 

Lord  Lytton  on  bedrooms,  32 

wine,  249 

for  building  stables,  351 

Lotions,  83 

Maltese  blood-orange,  211 

to  hire,  305 

Love  apple  or  tomato,  177 

Mammoth  gourd,  176 

Materials  used  in  making  beer — 

Loving  cup,  237 

Management  of  the  sick  room, 

hops,  269 

Lucerne  as  food  for  horses,  374 

482 

isinglass,  268 

Luncheon,  283 

Mangers  for  stables,  355 

malt,  268 

how  to  lay,  289 

Manihot  root,  204 

water,  269 

meaning  of,  288 

Manner,  297 

yeast,  269 

servants  at,  289 

Manners  to  visitors,  317 

Maternity  Society,  subscription, 

why  used,  288 

Mannite,  or  manna,  187 

322 

Lupulin,  contained  in  hops,  179. 

discovered    by     Dr.     Sten- 

Matting,  cocoa-nut,  20 

269 

house, 

187 

India,  20 

Man  servant,  duty  on,  388 

Mead,  251 

Mantegazza,        Professor, 

re- 

cowslip,  251 

TV/TACCARONI,  how  made, 206 
-'-*-*■         to  dress,  206 

searches  o1 

,  60 

distilled  from  honey,  223 

Manure  of  vine-leaves,  253 

Mead  or  saffron  poisoning,  477 

Mace,  colour  of,  203 

to   keep  frost  from  eel 

ars. 

Meal,  Indian,  111 

Macedoine  of  larks,  144 

278 

barley,  11 1 

Mackerel,  constituent  parts,  147 

Manzanilla,  254 

oat,  in 

description  of,  147 

colour  of,  254 

Mealing,  process  of,  114 

how  cooked,  147 

Mr.  Redding  on,  255 

Mealy  canary,  446 

price  of,  147 

origin  of  name  of,  254 

Meat,  average  per  dav  per  head, 

where  caught,  147 

qualities  of,  255 

.      139 

Madeira,  255 

Maple,  27 

charcoal,  a  preservative  ot, 

a  choice  wine,  255 

honey,  119 

139 

better  for  an  Eastern  voyage, 

sugar,  how  made,  222 

frozen,  to  keep,  138 

255 

Maranta  arundinacea,  204 

frozen,  to  thaw,  138 

constituent  parts  of,  252 

Maraschino,  248 

pyroligneous    acid,    to    pre- 

Malmsey Madeira,  255 

de  Zara,  262 

serve,  139 

Mr.  Henderson  on,  255 

Marble,  to  clean,  334 

quantity  required  per  head, 

qualities  of,  255 

March,  the  best  time  for  brewing, 

284 

Magnesium,  carbonate,  90 

270 

to  be  basted,  138 

Magnet,  what  named  from,  107 

Marcobrunner,  257 

to  boil  in  cold  water,  138 

how  to  make  a  steel,  108 

Marigold  leaves,   used  in  green 

to  cook,  133 

necessity    for    possessing    a 

cheese, 

406 

to  destroy  fly-blows  in,  138 

108 

Marine  algae,    constituent   parts 

to  kill  parasites  in,  138 

ships  steered  by,  108 

of, 

185 

to  pepper  joints  of,  139 

use  of,  108 

Mariner's  compass,  108 

to  pickle  in  one  day,  140 

Magnetism,  107 

Marjoram  pot,  where  native 

of, 

tough,  to  make  tender,  139 

Magots  (images),  43 

176 

Medlars,  in  season,  188 

Magpies,  affected  by  storm,  105 

common,    where    native 

of. 

how  eaten.  18S 

Mahogany,  two  kinds  of,  26 

i76 

Meissen,  manufactory  at,  45 

Maize  sugar,  how  made,  222 

sweet,     or    knotted,    where 

Melons  in  season,  195 

or  Indian  corn,  119 

native  of, 

176 

how  eaten,  195 

used    for    South    American 

winter,  where  native  of, 

176 

Mercuiy  poisoning,  481 

beer,  278 

Markers  for  dairy,  390 

Metal,    polished,    does    not    ra- 

Maizena, 205 

Marketing,  284 

diate,  106 

pudding,  205 

Marking  ink,  53 

teapot,  to  clean,  340 
Metheglin,  distilled  from  honey. 

Majolica,  43 

preparation  for,  53 

for  snowdrops,  55 

Marmalade,  orange,  211 

223 

vase  for  tulips,  55 

with  chips,  212 

Methuen   treaty,    on  port   wine, 

Making  presents,  315 

Marquetry,  28 

253 

Malaga,  258 

Marrow  bones  boiled,  141 

Mice,  white,  433 

Malmsey,    Madeira,    first  class. 

vegetable,  176 

as  domestic  pets.  430 

255 

Marsala,  255 

brown-and-white,  433 

Malt,  how  to  choose,  268 

a  good  substitute  for  sherry, 

food  for.  433 

amber,     slightly    scorched, 

255 

grey-and-white,  433 

268 

qualities  of,  255 

harvest,  433 

General  Index. 


521 


Mice,  kept  in  cages,  433 

Moselle,  constituent  parts  of, 

252 

Narcotic  in  hops,  179 

singing,  433 

how  imported,  257 

Nasturtium  buds,  226 

Milk,    what    adulterated     with, 

qualities  of,  257 

Nature  calls  for  aid  to  the  eye. 

128 

Moss,  Carrageen,  186 

73 

cheese  made  from,  397 

for  beds,  34 

Neatness,  a  source  of  comfort, 

consists  of,  397 

Mosses,  for  sugar,  222 

33° 

cream  settles  on,  397 

where  collected,  222 

Neckham,    Alexander,    on    the 

cow's,  contains,  127 

Mottled  soap,  207 

magnet,  10S 

cows,  how  to,  398 

Mould  candles,  85 

Nectar,  242 

description  of,  128 

Moulting,  fowls  suffer  from, 

409 

Nectarine,  in  season,  191 

general  remarks  on,  398 

diet  during,  418 

a  kind  of  almond,  191 

good  for  dormice,  433 

Mountain,  258 

constituent  parts,  191 

good  for  food,  398 

Mount  Ida,  107 

Nectarines,  qualities  of,  187 

how  to  skim,  398 

Mounting  a  horse,  320 

Nest  for  hatching  canaries,  445 

last  drawn  the  best,  402 

Moveable  fowl-house,  409 

for  sitting  hen,  410 

lemonade,  239 

Mucine  in  flour,  113 

of  peahen,  why  hidden,  425 

of  roses,  365 

Mulberries,  in  season,  193 

of  wild  chaffinch,  440 

pans  for  dairy,  390 

food  for  silkworms,  193 
syrup,  cure  for  sore  thr 

squirrel's,  where  built,  425 

to  wash,  399 

oat, 

Nestlings,  how  to  feed,  435 

punch,  245 

J93 

Nests  of  Guinea  fowl  difficult  to 

quantity  per  head,  284 

Mulberry  drink,  234 

discover,  424 

room  in  dairy,  329 

syrup,  241 

Netting  to  divide  poultry  yard, 

skim, 128 

where  native  of,  193 

408 

Swiss,  128 

Mullets,  sea,  148 

Nettle,  when  to  gather,  178 

to  preserve  in  summer,  129 

grey,  149 

good  for  chickens,  179 

uses  of,  397 

how  cooked,  149 

how  to  cook,  178 

what  it  is,  397 

red,  great  delicacy,  148 

remedy  for  goitre,  179 

Milking,  hints  on,  402 

value  of,  148 

utility  of,  179 

Mill,  for  flour,  113 

Muriatic  acid,  a  test  for  flour, 

116 

Neufchatel  cheese,  179 

stones,  114 

Murlins,  187 

New  Act  protects  lodgers,  12 

Millet  sugar  from  China,  222 

Muscatel  grape,  peculiar  flavour 

does  not  apply  to  Scotland, 

Mineral  springs,  cause  of,  91 

of, 

253 

13 

Miniver,  fur  of  polecats,  325 

raisins,  210 

New    earth    good    for    poultry, 

Mint,  spearhead,  175 

Muscovado  sugar,  221 

409 

julep,  237 

Mushroom,  180 

Niersteiner,  257 

pepper,  17s 

a  la  creme,  182 

Nightingale,     Miss,     on     good 

uses  for  ,17s 

on  toast,  182 

servants,  329 

when  to  gather,  175 

poisoning,  477 

on  dust,  330 

Minx,  who  imported  by,  325 

the  true  meadow,  180 

on  good  mistresses,  329 

Mistakes  in  ventilation,  6 

to  pot,  182 

Nightingale,    music   master  for 

Mixed  spice,  what  composed  of, 

Muslin,  as  a  strainer,  260 

canaries,  446 

204 

Mussels,  how  eaten,  153 

Nightingales,  cage  for,  454 

Mixture  to  preserve  eggs,  197 

how  cooked,  153 

best  free,  434 

Mocha  coffee,  colour  of,  218 

Mustard,  a  native  of,  201 

food  for,  455 

Modern  carriages,  384 

an  emetic,  201 

Night  lights,  how  to  use,  229 

how  to  buy,  384 

Durham,  201 

Night  nursery,  the,  24 

Mock  Nightingale  or  Blackcap, 

flour  of,  201 

beds  for,  24 

455 

peculiarities  of,  201 

fenders,  high  in,  24 

Moisture  necessary  for  hatching, 

poultice,  484 

ventilation  of,  24 

4" 

Shakspeare  on,  201 

Nightshade,  or  solanum,  159 

Molasses,  223 

distilled  into  rum,  221 

white,  201 

Nitrate  of  ammonium,  91 

Mustela  Canadensis,  324 

of  potassia  in  borage,  179 

sugar  drainings,  221 

erminea,  326 

Nitric  acid,  a  test  for  flour,  116 

Mont   Blanc,   boiling  water  on, 

pintorius,  325 

poisoning,  479 

96 

Siberica,  325 

Nitrogen,  as  fuel,  69 

Moonlight,  98 

Zibelline,  324 

Norfolk  turkey,  423 

Morning  calls,  316 

Mutton,  cold,  how  to  warm, 

282 

Normandy  biffens,  210 

children  to  be  left  at  home 

constituent  parts  of,  135 

Norway  lynx,  328 

during,  316 

how  to  choose,  135 

Norwich  canary,  description  of. 

concerts,  304 

Myristica  fragrans,  203 

446 

dogs  not  admissible  at,  316 

fatua,  203 

Nose-bleeding,  stopped  by  net- 

dress for,  317 

Malabarica,  203 

tles,  179 

eggs,  215 

Myrocene,  201 

Notes    on    business,    rules   for, 

length  of,  316 

Myronic  acid,  201 

3i3 

parties,  303 

Myrtle  wax,  of  Louisiana,  84 

of  invitation,  rules,  318 

rules  for   leaving  cards  at, 

candleberry,       of       United 

printed  cards  for,  318 

316 

States 

84 

Notice  to  quit,  form  of,  8 

'   rules    to    be    observed '  at, 

Noyeau,  247 

316 

of  beech  leaves,  247 

time  to  pay,  316 

NJANKIN  PORCELAIN, 
iN      Naphtha,  84 

43 

Noyau  honey,  224 

Moselle,  257 

Nursery,  the,  24 

522 


General  Index. 


Nursery,  necessities  for  air  and 
light  in,  24 

cultivation      of      children's 
taste  in,  24 

dinner,  283 

linen,  51 
Nut  of  Jove,  194 
Nutmeg   oil   produces   intoxica- 
tion, 203 
Nutmegs,  to  select,  203 
Nut  oil,  84 
Nutritives,  no 
Nuts,  in  season,  193 

hazel,  193 

where  grown,  193 


DAK>  27 

v^         stands,  for  beer  casks,  267 

Oaten  bread,  125 
Oatmeal,  in 

nutritious,  in 
Oats,  staple  food  for  horses,  373 

constituent  parts  of,  116 

description  of,  374 

new,  bad  for  food,  372 

price  of,  374 

should  be  crushed,  374 

weight  of  a  bushel  of,  117 

where  grown,  116 
Occasional    gifts    to    the    poor, 
322 
Ocellated  turkey,  142 

where  found,  142 
October  good  for  brewing,  270 
Odd  men  about  stable  or  garden, 

372 
Odling,  Dr.,  on  heat,  63 
Oersted's  theory  of  light,  74 
Oil,  almond,  for  light,  84 

African  palm,  for  light,  84 

cloth,  21 

cocoa-nut,  for  light,  84 

Colza,  209 

flax,  for  light,  84 

hemp,  for  light,  84 

in  soap,  206 

lamps.  84 

mineral,  84 

naphtha,  84 

nut,  for  light,  84 

of  almonds,  210 

of  garlic,  174 

of  horseradish,  175 

of  pepper,  201 

of  vitriol,  121 

olive,  202 

olive,  for  light,  84 

paint  for  bedroom,  17 

petroleum,  84 

pilchard,  84 

pitch,  84 

rape,  for  light,  84 

sperm,  84 

volatile,  in  hops,  179 
Old  box,  a  good  house  for  ducks, 
419 

clothes  for  the  poor,  322 

way  of  testing  heat  of  water, 
271 
Olive  oil,  how  to  keep,  202 


Olive    oil,    antidote    to    poison, 
202 

in  cookery,  203 

stiffens  at,  65 
Omelette  a  la  Neige,  216 
Onion,  in  season,  173 

a  cure  for  earache,  174 

an  object  of  worship,  174   » 

how  used,  174 

vinegar,  199 
Onions  with    mashed    potatoes, 
165 
Openawk,  155 
Opium,  in  lettuce,  174 
Optician's  knowlege,  79 
Orange  compote,  212 

and  lemon  beverage,  238 

brandy,  238 

crystallized  red,  212 

fritters,  229 

peel,  candied,  213 

sherbet,  241 

water,  240 

wine,  251 
Oranges,  in  season,  211 

how  used,  211 

Maltese  blood,  211 

marmalade,  211 

where  grown,  211 
Orchis,  early  purple,  179 
Order  of  precedence,  295 
Orgeat,  242 

Oriental  china,  marks  on,  47 
Ormolu     ornaments,     to     clean, 
335 
Ornamental  ventilators,  6 
Ornamentation,  54 
Ornaments  for  dinner-tables,  22 

glass  versus  silver,  22 
Ortolan,  142 
Ortolans,  143 
Osmazone,  132 
Ostend  butter,  129 

rabbits,  where  sold,  143 
Oven,  fuel  for,  123 

brick,  123 

flower-pot,  123 

hiw  long  to  heat,  123 

iron,  123 

to  ascertain  heat  in,  123 
Over-feeding    causes  disease   in 
fowls,  417 
Ox,  age  for  killing,  133 

how  divided,  132 
Oxalic  acid  poisoning,  478 
Oxide  of  amyl  in  old  wine,  253 

of  iron,  107 
Oxygen,  as  fuel,  69 

as  pure  air,  59 
Oysters,  when  in  season,  152 

au  Parmesan,  152 

etiquette,  152 

roasted,  153 

stewed  with  wine,  152 
Ozokerit,  where  found,  209 

Field's  candles,  208 
Ozone,  production  of,  61 

density  of,  61 

in  aromatic  tinctures,  61 

in  phosphorus,  61 

in  plants,  61 


Ozone,  in  sea-air,  61 

in   water  decomposed   in   a 
voltameter,  61 


PACKING    EGGS  to   travel, 

427 

Pails  for  dairy,  390 

Paint  and   paper,    harmony    of, 

18 

for  dining-rooms,  18 

to  clean,  American,  332 

to  remove  from  wood,  336 
Pairing  canary  birds,  rules  for, 
444 
Palissy's  pottery,  43 
Palm,  gommuti,  221 

date,  221 

sugar,  how  procured,  221 
Pancakes,  shrimp,  154 
Pans  for  fowls   to   be    washed, 
411 
Papas,  156 
Paper  for  bedrooms,  17 

colour  for,  preferable,  17 

decorative  details  of,  13 

effects  of  colour  in,  13 

emery,  209 

for  pillows,  34 

glass,  209 

glazing  for,  17 

hangings,  13 

patterns  for,  17 

sand,  209 

selection  of,  13 
Papers,  infection  retained  in,  18 

wall,  to  clean,  330 
Papering  and  painting,  13 
Papyrus,  85 
Paraffin,  how  to  test,  209 

increases  insurance,  209 
Parasites  in  sugar,  222 
Parmesan  cheese,  129 

how  to  make,  405 
Parish  rates,  8 
Parquetry,  27 

Parrakeets,  description  of,  452 
Parrots,  diseases  of,  452 

food  for,  452 

remedies  for,  452 

where  natives  of,  452 
Parsley,  native  of,  17s 

used  in  green  cheese,  406 

when  to  gather,  175 
Parsnip,  in  season,  171 

contains,  171 

fritters,  171 

native  of  England,  171 

wine,  250 
Parties,  evening,  304 

croquet,  304 

dinner,  290 

morning,  304 
Partitions  for  stables,r"353 
Partridge,  varieties  of,  143 

description  of,  143 

to  carve,  303 
Partridges  a  la  Russe,  144 
Paste,  a,  to  cure  scab  in  pigeons, 
423 
Pastilles  for  soup,  228 


General  Index. 


523 


Pasture,  best  for  cows,  394 

Pheasants,  Argus,  description  of, 

Pigeons,  to  carve,  303 

Patent  barley,  118 

429 

the  rate  they  fly  at,  424 

self-acting  ventilators,  6 

Chinese,  plumage  of,  428 

tumblers,  423 

Patience   necessary  in   teaching 

cost  of  rearing,  428 

young,  unsightly,  423 

goldfinches,  438 

crosses  of,  428 

Pike,  constituent  parts,  150 

Paving  for  stables,  353 

food  for  young,  428 

and  eels,  enemies  to  ducks, 

Peach,  in  season,  191 

for  aviaries,  428 

419 

constituent  parts,  191 

golden,  plumage  of,  429 

how  cooked,  150 

where  native  of,  191 

guard      young      from     cold 

of  Frederick  II.,  150 

Peaches,  quatities  of,  187 

winds,  428 

where  caught,  150 

Pea  fowl  requires  space,  425 

horned,  native  of,  429 

Pilchards,  for  oil,  84 

cock  of  destroys  the  chicks, 

Impeany,  food  of,  429 

potted,  148 

.      ,  ,                                  425 

Japanese,       manners      and 

Pillows,  feather,  34 

food  for  chicks  of,  425 

habits  of,  429 

cases,  plain,  51 

nest  of,  sheltered,  425 

Reeves',  tail   six  feet   long, 

down,  34 

roast,  for  table,  425 

429 

paper,  34 

shy  birds,  425 

scientific  name  of,  143 

thistledown,  34 

sits  for  twenty-six  days,  425 

silver,  delicately  tinted,  429 

trimmed,  51 

sits  on  five  eggs,  425 

substituted  by  Guinea  fowl. 

Pimento,  constituents,  203 

tail  of,  425 

425 

where  grown,  203 

vow  taken  in  presence  of,  426 

teaching    young    to    perch. 

Pincushion,  round,  30 

where  native  of,  426 

428 

square,  30 

Pea-meal  in  flour,  116 

to  breed,  427 

Pineapple,  where  grown,  195 

Pearl-barley,  118 

to  carve,  303 

in  season,  195 

Pears,  in  season,  189 

to  rear  under  hens,  428 

syrup,  240 

constituent  parts  in,  189 

where  native  of,  143 

Pine  marten,  324 

how  to  keep,  189 

Phoca,  327 

P^nk  fritters,  230 

Pear-wood,  27 

Phcenix  Sylvestris,  221 

Pip,  in  fowls,  417 

qualities  of,  188 

Physic  for  canaries,  443 

how  discovered,  4T7 

Peasants  of  Thunngia  value  the 

Pickled  cherries,  192 

remedy  for,  417 

chaffinch,  439 

eggs,  216 

Pipe  collar,  for  horses,  388 

Peas,  constituent  parts,  169 

Pickles,  how  to  keep,  226 

Piper,  how  cured,  147 

green,  169 

to  examine,  227 

imported  from,  202 

how  cooked,  169 

to  improve,  226 

longum,  202 

where  grown,  169 

Pickling,  directions  for,  224 

nigrum,  202 

Pea  soup,  283 

East  Indian  mode,  225 

Piperine,  201 

for  the  poor,  323 

use  earthern  pots  for,  225 

Pitch,  84 

Pectose  in  edible  fruits,  188 

use  wooden  spoons  in,  225 

Plaice,  how  cooked,  146 

Peculiarities  of  dormice,  433 

With  cold  vinegar,  225 

Plan    for    keeping    wine    good 

Peeresses  can  demand  a  private 

with  hot  vinegar,  225 

while  on  draught,  259 

audience,  322 

Pictures  for  screens,  32 

for    building    stables,    348, 

Pekoe  or  white-down  tea,  217 

in  bedrooms,  25 

351 

Pelham  bridle,  the,  383 

Pie,  game,  144 

Plants,  canaries  fond  of,  4^1 

Pennant  on  geese,  420 

potato,  165 

in  children's  nurseries,  60 

Pennyroyal,  175 

pumpkin,  176 

nourished  by  carbonic  acid, 

Penstaff,  for  stirring  mash,  265 

Pig,  how  divided,  137 

60 

Pepper,  Professor,  on  absorbents. 

Pigeons,  to  choose,  142 

Plaster  of  Paris  in  flour,  116 

67 

as  out-door  pets,  430 

Plate,  electro,  cheap,  38 

cayenne,  202 

attentive  to  young,  423 

silver,  expensive,  38 

constituent  parts,  201 

best  food  for,  423 

to  clean,  339 

mint,  175 

blue  rock,  423 

to  make  look  like  new,  340 

oil  in,  201 

breed  every  month,  423 

Playfair,  Dr.,  on  the  science  of 

on  expansion  of  water,  89 

carrier,  423 

boiling,  138 

on  the  eye,  75 

carrier,  messengers,  424 

Pleuro-pneumonia  in  cows,  396 

to  preserve  meat,  139 

Cockbirds  quarrelsome,  423 

Plovers.  143 

Perch,  where  found,  149 

cot  faces  south,  423 

to  choose,  142 

Perches  for  fowl-house,  408 

diseases  of,  423 

Plucking      geese,     when     com- 

Perching, to  teach  young  phea- 

fantail, 423 

menced,  420 

sants,  428 

fond  of  salt,  423 

Plum,  in  season,  192 

Percussion  causes  heat,  57 

food,     poison    for    turkeys. 

dried,  for  stewing,  210 

Pereira's,Dr.,unfermented  bread, 

422 

French,  for  dessert,  210 

124 

must  be  kept  clean,  423 

uses  for,  192 

Periwinkles,  154 

paste  to  cure  scab  in,  423 

Plums,  qualities  of,  187 

Pestilence  prevented  by  aromatic 

plenty    of    water    essential, 

Plymouth  china,  marks  on,  48 

herbs,  60 

423 

Podiceps  cristatus,  327 

Petroleum,  how  to  test,  209 

pouters,  423 

Points  for  a  hunter,  362 

oil,  84 

profitable  to  keep,  423 

of     a      horse     for    driving, 

Phaeton,  the  park -driving,  386 

remedies  for  diseases  of,  423 

360 

Phasianus  Colchicus,  143 

revel  in  a  bath,  423 

for  riding,  360 

Pheasants,   ants'  .eggs  food   for 

sparrows  annoy,  423 

to  be  avoided  in   a  hunter, 

young, 428 

starLngs  enemies  to,  423 

362 

5*4 


General  Index. 


Poisoning,  473 

Potato,  bread,  to  make,  124 

Poultry,  clean  water  essential  for, 

Polecats,  where  found,  325 

brandy  distilled  from,  222 

r        -■              r                                              4°9 

habits  of,  325 

brandy,  how  made,  262 

feeding  of,  409 

Poleck,    Dr.,    on    differences   of 

cakes,  230 

how  to  fatten,  427 

flour,  115 

cheesecakes,  164 

new  earth  boon  for,  409 

Polenta,  119 

cheese  puffs.  166 

run  to  cover,  408 

Polish  for  furniture,  337 

Clusius  on  the,  156 

to  choose,  142 

description  of,  414 

collar  of,  164 

Pouter  pigeons  ornamental,  423 

fowls,  great  favourites,  414 

constituent  parts,  155 

Powder,  blue,  208 

golden,  truly  handsome,  415 

cultivation  of,  160 

washing,  310 

Mr.  Richardson  on,  415 

Dean  Swift  on  the,  156 

P.P.C.,  pour  prendre  conge,  316 

white  crested,  414 

Evelyn  on  the,  156 

Praise  for  cleanliness,  330 

Polishing  furniture,  337 

fried  in  slices,  165 

Prawns,  where  found,  153 

Pollards,  116 

Gerrard  on  the,  157 

how  caught,  153 

Pommage  for  cider,  279 

grafting,  245 

how  cooked,  153 

Pomme  de  terre,  159 

in   a  state   of    putrefact 

ion, 

Preparation  for  damp  walls,  12 

Pond,   not    required   for  ducks. 

J59 

Presentation  at  Court,  321 

418 

in  Covent  Garden,  156 

etiquette  of,  321 

Ponies,  as  out-door  pets,  430 

in  England,  156 

Presents  at  wedding,  313 

price  of,  365 

in  Ireland,  155 

Preserved  meats,  to  use,  228 

where  bred,  365 

in  Scotland,  156 

Preserves,  how  to  keep,  ic,6 

Pony,  description  of,  361 

John  Gay  on  the,  156 

Preserving  French  beans,  171 

Poor  man's  filter,  94 

list  of  kidney,  162 

directions  for,  227 

Poor,  soup  for  the,  322 

list  of  round,  162 

fruit  for  preserving,  227 

bread  pudding  for  the,  322 

Lord  Bacon  on  the,  159 

fruit  in  spirit,  228 

dripping  for  the,  322 

mashed,  165 

pans  for  preserving,  227 

duties  to  the,  322 

mashed    with     cabbage 

or 

Press  for  making  cider,  279 

occasional  gifts  for  the,  322 

spinach, 

165 

Presses  for  dairy,  390 

old  clothes  for  the,  322 

mashed  with  onions,  165 

Price   of    bullfinches  who   sing, 

pea  soup  for  the,  323 

oat,  116 

43<5 

visiting  the,  322 

on  the  Continent,  156 

of  singing  chaffinch,  439 

Porcelain,  description  of,  44 

or  starch  sugar,  how  made, 

Price's  candles,  208 

English,  45 

222 

Process    of    brewing    described, 

French,  46 

Peter  Cicca  on  the,  156 

270 

gifts  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  43 

pie,  165 

Proctor's  carpet  renovator,  332 

Nankin,  43 

products  of,  159 

Proof  spirit,  density  of,  261 

pictures,  45 
Portuguese,  43 

Professor    Bradley    on 

the. 

Provident  societies,  subscription, 

159 

322 

Sevres,  42 

Professor    Lindley    on 

the, 

Provisions,    rules    for    ordinary, 

Pork,  cold  curried,  282 

*59 

2S6 

constituent  parts,  137 

pudding,  165 

Prunes,  210 

how  to  choose,  137 

pudding  under  meat,  165 

Prussic  acid  poisoning,  478 

liable  to  disease,  137 

puffs,  166 

Ptarmigans,  where  from,  143 

Porphyra,      generic      character. 

quantity  per  head,  284 

Public  balls,  rules  for,  307 

185 

ragout  balls,  175 
salad,  166 

Pudding,  biscuit,  231 

how  to  cook,  185 

cheese,  130 

laciniata,  185 

scolloped,  245 

cloths,  52 

Port  wine,  constituent  parts  of, 

scones,  245 

ice,  231 

252 

Shakspeare  on  the,  157 

Maizena,  205 

a  favourite  with  Englishmen. 

snow,  245 

potato,  165 

254 

starch,  208 

potato  under  meat,  165 

how  adulterated,  253 

storing,  166 

rice,  205 

Mr.  Cyrus  Redding  on,  254 

to  boil,  164 

sago,  205 

Mr.  Henderson  on,  254 

to      preserve      till      spring. 

semolina,  205 

qualities  of,  254 

166 

thatched,  231 

when   introduced  into  Eng- 

uses for.  222 

Puddings,     black     and     white, 

land,  254 

uses  of,  as  food  for  animals, 

137 

where  grown,  253 

i59> 

160 

expensive,  283 

Porter  cup,  236 

when  introduced,  155 

Puffs,  potato,  166 

London,  constituents  of,  263 

where  grown,  155 

Pumpkin,  176 

Portland  sago,  179 

with  flour  for  dough,  124 

pie,  176 

Portuguese  porcellana,  43 

Pots      and      pans      for      dairy, 

soup,  176 

Potash  from  burnt  vine  branches. 

390 

with  cheese,  177 

174 

pans,  and  kettles,    to  clean 

Punch,  311 

Potassia,  nitrate  of,  179 

insides  of, 

339 

cold,  246 

Pot  cheese,  to  make,  130 

Potted  butter,  129 

George  IV. 's  milk,  245 

herbs,  175 

soups  to  use,  228 

jelly,  312 

marjoram,  176 

Pottery,  41 

milk,  245,  246 

Potato,    account    of    discovery, 

Poultice,  ginger,  204 

whisky,  245 

155 

Poulticing,  484 

Punctuality,  a  requisite,  295 

barm,  or  yeast,  164 

Poultry  as  out-door  pets,  430 

Purchasing  a  house,  9 

General  Index. 


525 


Pure  air,  an  antidote  to  illness, 

329 

diminishes  warmth  in  badly 

fed  poor,  63 

Pure  breed  in  fowls  desired,  408 

Punty   of    atmosphere    to    test, 

331 
Putrefaction,  cause  of,  98 

effects  of,  98 

remedy  for,  98 
Pyroligneous  acid,  98 

to  sweeten  tainted  meat,  139 


QUAILS,  143 

So     Qualifications  of  a  hostess, 
296 
Quantity  of  malt  for  strong  ale, 
271 
of  good  hops  for  strong  ale, 
271 
of  hops  for  bitter  ale,  271 
for  harvest  beer,  271 
for  table  beer,  271 
of  malt,  for  bitter  ale,  271 
for  harvest  beer,  271 
for  table  beer,  271 
yeast  for  strong  ale,  271 
Quantities    of   malt    for    stout, 
277 
of  hops  for  porter,  277 
of  hops  for  stout,  277 
of  malt  for  porter,  277 
required  for  different  beers, 
271 
treacle  for  porter,  277 
Quass,  a  Russian  beer,  276 
Quicklime,  86 

for  fining  beer,  276 
Quicksilver,  63 

freezes  at  40°  below  zero,  65 
use  of,  instead  of  spirits  of 
wine,  64 
Quilts,  Marseilla,  34 
knitted,  34 
patchwork,  34 
Quinces,  in  season,  188 
use  of,  188 


"D  ABBIT,  cold,  to  warm,  282 
-*■  *-  as  out-door  pets,  430 

Ostend,  price  of,  143 

price  of,  143 

to  carve,  302 
Racking  beer,  how  done,  276 
Radiation,  when  greatest,  106 

when  most  useful,  106 
Radish,  in  season,  175 

properties  of,  175 

where  grown,  175 
Rag  carpets,  21 
Ragout,  potato  balls,  165 
Rainbow,  104 
Rain,  cause  of,  92 

drains  for  stables,  350 

injurious  to   turkey   chicks, 
422 

qualities  of,  92 

tank  for  stables,  349 

water,  90 


Raisins,  constituent  parts,  210 

Eleme,  210 

how  dried,  210 

muscatels,  210 

Smyrna,  210 

Sultanas,  210 

to  use  in  bottling  beer,  278 

uses  of,  210 

Valencia,  210 

wine,  250 
Raleigh,    Sir   Walter,    discovers 
the  potato,  155 
Rancid  butter,  to  sweeten,  130 
Rape  oil, 

seeds  of,  84 
Raspberries,  in  season,  190 

how  grown,  190 

to  remove  tartar  from  teeth, 
190 
Raspberry  acid,  243 

beer,  244 

drink,  244 

fritters,  230 

sherbet,  243 

syrup,  243 

vinegar  and  drink,  244 
Ratafia,  248 
Rates,  sewage,  8 

parish,  8 
Rats,  enemies  to  ducks,  418 
Reading  lamp,  39 
Rearing   pheasants  under   hens, 
428 

pheasants,  cost  of,  428 
Receipt  for  fining  wine,  260 
Receipts,  how  to  keep,  286 
Red  beet,  in  season,  171 

contains,  171 

currant  water,  234 

herrings,  154 

how  to  cook,  171 

lead  in  curry  powder,  202 

nature  of,  171 

ochre  in  cocoa,  220 

ware,  186 

wine  cup,  237 
Reeves'  pheasant,  length  of  tail, 
43° 
Reflection  of  light,  83 
Refraction  of  light,  83 
Remedies    for    diseases    of    pi- 
geons, 423 
Rennet,  128 

used  in  cheese-making,  403 
Rent  and  taxes,  3 
Repairs  after  damages,  8 

under  agreement,  8 

under  lease,  7 
Resin,  acrid  in  pepper,  201 

aromatic  in  hops,  179 
Respiration  in  London,  88 

of  fishes,  89 
Returning  thanks  card,  316 
Revelenta  Arabica,  169 
Rhubarb,  where  native  of,  173 

how  used,  173 

marmalade,  173 

tea,  233 
Ribbon-isinglass,  how  made,  206 
Rice,  constituent  parts,  204 

effects  of,  204 


Rice,  ground,  204 

pudding,  205 

to  be  kept,  204 

to  use  in  bottLng  beer,  278 

where  grown,  204 

with  flour  for  dough,  124 
Richardson,     Mr.,      on     Polish 
fowls,  415 
Riding,  dress  for,  320 

etiquette  for,  320 

rules  for,  320 
Ringdove,      where      native     of, 

453 
River  water,  91 
Roach,  where  found,  151 
Roasted  oysters,  153 
Roast  fowl,  to  carve,  303 

swan,  309 
Robins,  best  free,  434 

become  familiar,  434 

quarrelsome,  456 
Rock  candles,  208 
Rolled  ribs,  to  carve,  299 
Roman  candles,  85 
Romans  ate  roast  peacock,  426 
Roof  for  fowl-house,  408 
Roosting-place  of    Guinea-fowl, 
425 
Ropiness  in  beer,  how  to  cure, 
214 
Rose  brandy,  240 
Roselet,  fur  of  polecats,  325 
Rosewood,  26 
Rosolio,  how  made,  262 
Rota,  254 

contains  tannin,  254 
Round  potatoes,  list  of,  162 
Rouser,  for  brewing,  266 
Roussillon,  254 
Rudesheimer,  257 
Rue  for  fowls.  410 
Ruffe,  where  found,  151 
Rules    for    ordering    provisions, 
286 

for  returning  calls,  317 
Rum,  where  made,  262 

analysis  of,  261 

a  wholesome  spirit,  262 

how  used,  262 

made  from,  221 

what  distilled  from,  262 

what  flavoured  with,  262 
Rumbled  eggs,  215 
Running  away  of  horses,  380 

how  to  prevent,  380 
Rushes,  how  prepared,  84 
Rushlights,  84 
Russian  caviare,  150 

crash,  for  towels,  51 

isinglass,  150 

tallow,  85 
Russians  use  rye  bread,  119 
Rust,  cause  of,  93 

prevention  of,  93 

to  remove,  334 

to  take  out  of  steel,  339 
Rye,  constituent  parts  of,  119 

bread  for  Russia,  119 

bread,  valuable  property  of, 
119 

cakes  used  by  Swedes,  119 


526 


General  Index. 


Rye,   used  instead   of  malt 

for 

Saussure's,  De,  observations 

on 

Sherry,  254 

beer, 

278 

water-boilng, 
Savealls,  209 

96 

cobbler,  236 

colour  of,  how  altered,  254 

CABLE     MARTEN,      wl 
•^                               native  of, 

lere 

Savory,  winter,  where  native 

of. 

constituent  parts  of,  252 

324 

1-6 

pale,  the  pure  wine,  254 

Saccharometer,    where  unneces- 

summer, where  native  of, 

176 

pure  qualities  of,  255 

sary, 

267 

when  to  gather,  176 

Shetland  ponies,  strong,  365 

Saddle  of  mutton,  to  carve,  2gg 

Scallop,   or  St.    James's  cockle. 

cows,  391 

Saddles,  description  of,  452 

154 

Shoeing    horses,    directions   for, 

girths,  382 

how  to  choose,  382 

how  cooked,  154. 

380 

scalloped,  154 

Shoes  for  horses,  how  long  to 

how  to  clean,  382 

Scalloped  scall  ps,  154 

last,  380 

price  of,  382 

shells,  154 

Shorthorn  breed  of  cows,  390 

require  stirrups,  382 

Scarlet  runner,  170 

Short  sight,  79 

spring  bars,  382 

Schloss,  Johannesberger,  257 

Shot   bad  for   cleaning   bottles, 

Saffron  used  for  c  A  ouring  cheese. 

"  Schnornsche  "  Kaolin,  45 

260 

4°5 

Schoolroom,  23 

Shoulder  of   mutton,    to  carve, 

Sage,  where  native  of,  175 

absolute   indispensables  for, 

r»      .                               ,                                               2" 

to  clean  teeth,  175 

23> 

24 

Shrimp  pancakes,  154 

used  in  green  cheese,  406 

Scolloped  potatoes,  166 

Shrimps,  two  kinds,  153 

when  to  gather,  175 

Scones,  potato,  166 

how  caught,  153 

Sago,  bread  in  New  Guinea, 

125 

Scotch  cheese,  129 

how  cooked,  153 

how  prepared,  205 

greens,  167 

where  found,  153 

how  to  keep,  196 

Scottish    peasantry,    chief   food 

Shrub,  247 

Portland,  179 

of  the, 

116 

currant,  247 

pudding,  205 

Scouring  flannels,  53 

how  made,  262 

to  make,  125 

Screen,  a  substitute  for  dress 

ng 

lemon,  247 

with  flour,  for  dough,  124 

room 

32 

West  Indian,  247 

Sascus  farinefera,  205 

Scurvy,  caused  by  salt,  134 

Shying  of  horses,  381 

Sail  stone,  186 

Sea  breeze,  value  of,  106 

how  caused,  381 

Salad,  potato,  166 

girdles,  186 

how  to  cure,  381 

Sal.ne  matter,  required  in  food, 

gulls,  effect  of  weather  on, 

105 

Siberia,  winters  in,  90 

109 

holly,  where  found,  180 

Sick  room,  482 

Salmon,  145 

how  eaten,  180 

Sideboard,  snpplies  on,  288 

constituent  parts  of,  145 

kale,  who  discovered,  173 

Siderites,  108 

crimped,  146 

staff,  186 

Sieve  for  making  cider,  279 

description  of,  145 

wand,  186 

Sifting  flour.  115 

how  caught,  145 

Seal,  the,  where  found,  327 

Silica  in  the  hair,  in 

how  cooked, 146 

Seaweeds,  185 

SJk,  a  non-conductor,  100 

k.ppered,  154 

Second  hand  furniture,  35 

to    test    with    hydrochloric 

trout,  146 

advice  for  buy.ng,  35 

acid,  323 

where  found,  145 

Seeds  of  vine  yield  oil,  253 

Silver,  to  take  stains  out  of,  340 

Salt,  component  parts,  200 

to  keep  for  winter,  244 

beaks,  small  birds,  450 

aS  a  punishment,  200 

Semolina,  how  made,  205 

pheasant,  habits  of,  430 

butter,  129 

pudding,  205 

to   remove  ink  stains  from, 

in  blood,  200 

Servants,  to  be  looked  after,  333 

34o 

keep  dry,  196 

bedrooms,  25,  26 

Sinclair,  Miss,   on  making  pre- 

necessary for  pigeons,  42 

3 

hall,  25 

sents,  315 

table,  200 

waiting  at  table,  290 

Singeing  hordes,  benefit  of,  379 

to  keep,  201 

Sevres  china,  marks  on,  48 

directions  for,  379 

uses  of,  200 

porcelain,  42 

Singing,  to  teach  young  canaries, 

water,  90 

Sewage  rates,  8 

446 

where  obtained,  200 

Sewer  air,  4 

Single  broughams,  price  of,  385 

Salteratus,  as  pickle,  201 

Sewers  for  stables,  349 

Sinks,  untrapped,  4 

Salting  butter,  method  of,  400 

Shad,  148 

Sirloin  of  beef",  to  carve,  298 

Salts  of  ammonium,  91 

where  found,  151 

Siskin,   a  favourite  of  bird  fan- 

Salvinus Armatus  invents  spec- 

Shakspeare on  the  potato,  157 

ciers,  439 

tacles 

,78 

Shallot,  where  native  of,  173 

food  for,  440 

Samphire,  where  grown,  225 

vinegar,  199 

habits  of  the,  439 

how  used,  226 

Sheep,  age  of,  135 

song  of,  pleasant,  439 

Shakspeare  on,  226 

how  divided,  136 

Sit  down  supper,  306 

Sand  paper,  how  made,  209 

Sheep's  tails  fried,  141 

Sitting  time  of  Guinea  fowl,  424 

Sanguinetti,  Professor,  on  mush- 

tongues en  papillotes,  141 

of  turkey  takes  thirty  days, 

rooms, 

181 

Sheets,  size  of,  51 

423 

Sardine,  where  found,  148 

airing  of,  51 

Skate,  145 

how  cured,  148 

repairing  of,  51 

Skeleton  phaeton,  the,  386 

where  caught,  148 

servants',  51 

Skimmer  for  yeast  in  brewing. 

Sarin  wood,  27 

Shelter  required  for  ducks,  415 

268 

Sauce,  boar's  head,  309 

Shelving  fur  dairy,  389 

Skins  of  grapes,  make  brandy, 

acid,  200 

Sherbet,  raspberry,  243 

353 

Saucepans,  to  inspect,  283 

strawberry,  240 

Skylark,  457 

General  Inde: 


527 


Skyrrets  of  Peru,  157 

Soft  soap,  207 

Squirrels,  328 

Slate,  for  orders  to  cook,  283 

water,  97 

as  domestic  pets,  430 

Sleep,  490 

Solanum,  or  nightshade,  159 

cage,  description  of,  431 

requires  less  oxygen,  62 

Soles,  constituent  parts  of,  146 

cage  for,  size  of,  430 

Sloke, 185 

cost  of,  146 

cylinder,    bad  in    cage   for, 

•     *        •                    43° 
eaten  in  America,  143 

Slop   pail,    to    be   washed   with 

how  cooked,  146 

chloride  of  lime, 

330 

Souchong  tea,  218 

Small  birds,  to  help,  303 

Song  of  chaffinch,  varies,  44c 

female,    an  affectionate  mo- 

Smalt, 208 

of  siskin,  pleasant,  439 

ther,  431 
food  for  tame,  431 

Smelt,  how  used,  146,  147 

Songs     learnt     by     bullfinches. 

Smith     (Worthington     C.). 

on 

436 

happy  in  freedom,  430 

mushrooms, 

181 

Sore     throat,     cure     for, 

With 

nest,  where  built,  431 

Smoke     ascends,     reasons 

f  r, 

cayenne, 

202 

when  to  buy,  431 

170 

cure  for,  193 

where  domiciled,  143 

may  be  consumed,  69 

Sorghum  sugar,  222 

wild,  lay   up  food  in   store, 

Smoky  chimneys,  70 

Sorrel,  antiscorbutic,  175 

431 

cure  for,  70 

how  to  cook,  175 

Stable,  requires  drains,  3.49 

scientific  reasons  for,  70 

Soup,  carrot,  171 

air-flue,  352 

Smyrna  raisins,  210 

cressy,  171 

aspect  of,  348 

Snaffle,  the,  description  of,  3 

?3 

for  the  poor,  322 

ceiling,  352 

chain,  the,  383 

hare,  143 

cesspool,  349 

double-jointed,  the,  383 

kangaroo  tail,  144 

chain  and  ring,  355 

gag,  the,  383 

plates,  with  dahlias,  54 

corn-manger,  355 

smooth,  the,  383 

pumpkin,  176 

drainage  of,  348 

twisted,  the,  383 

swan  giblet,  310 

fittings,  where  to  buy,  348 

Snipe,  to  carve,  303 

Sourkraut,  Amencan,  168 

groom,  duties  of,  in  manag- 

Snipes, 143 

to  serve,  168 

ing,  372 

affected  by  rain,  105 

Soyer's  apple  water,  233 

hay-rack,  353 

Snow,  92 

lemonade,  239 

light,  352 

a  bad  conductor,  67 

Spangled  canary,  446 

loose-box,  352 

drops,  as  ornaments,  55 

Spanish  Catalan,  258 

management  of  horse,  372 

flakes,  to  make,  56 

Andalusian,  fine-looking. 

4i7 

mangers,  355 

potatoes,  166 

chestnut,  204 

partitions,  353 

Soaking  new  casks,  272 

chickens,  very  delicate,  412 

passage,  352 

Soap,  Marseilles,  207 

fowls,  description  of,  412 

paving,  353 

alkalies  in,  207 

hens,  never  sit,  412 

rain-water  tank,  350 

Brown  Windsor,  207 

Minorca,  large  eggs,  412 

rings  for  halter  reins,  355 

carbolic,  207 

red-faced,  very  good  layers, 

rings  for  pillar-reins,  353 

Castile,  207 

412 

servants,  370 

emigrant's,  207 

several  varieties  of,  412 

sewers,  349 

glycerine,  207 

white,  412 

stalls,  352 

green,  207 

Sparging,  heat  of  water  for,  2 

72 

to  purify,  353 

honey,  207 

Sparkling  moselle  cup,  237 

utensils:  — 

how  bought,  206 

wine  cup,  237 

besom,  356 

how  made.  206 

wines,  to  keep,  259 

body  brush,  357 

how  to  be  bought,  196 

Sparrow,    Java,     fond    of    rice, 

currycomb,  357 

how  to  keep,  206 

447 

halters,  357 

kalydor,  207 

cut-throat,  447 

head-collar,  357 

mottled,  207 

diamond,  food  for,  448 

leathers  and  rubbers,  357 

oils  in,  206 

Sparrows,  best  free,  434 

mane  comb,  357 

soft,  207 

annoy  pigeons,  423 

manure  basket,  356 

useful  for  rheumatism,  207 

Spearhead  mint,  175 

measure,  357 

white,  207 

Specific  gravity  of  water,  91 

oil-brush  and  tin,  357 

wort,  use  of,  180 

Specimen  glasses,  55 

picker,  357 

yellow,  207 

Spectacles,  78 

pitchfork,  356 

Social  duties,  290 

for  shortsight,  79 

prices  of,  356 

evenings,  290 

improper  selection  of,  79 

shovel,  356 

habits  of  geese,  420 

Sperm  candles,  208 

sieve,  356 

of  ducks,  418 

whale,  85 

singeing  lamp,  357      ' 

Soda,  effect  on  water,  92 

Spices,  to  keep,  197 

sponge,  357 

carbonate  of,  204 

Spinach,  in  season,  175 

stable  pail,  356 

griddle  cakes,  126 

SpLnters,  467 

trimming  scissors,  357 

how  made,  204 

Splints,  in  horses,  treatment 

of, 

water  brush,  357 

use  of,  204 

369 

wooden  box,  357 

uses  of,  204 

Spouts,  to  be  cleaned,  11 

ventilating  grating,  352 

Sodium,  sulphate  of,  90 

Sprats,  how  preserved,  148 

ventilation,  352 

chljride  of,  90 

Spirits  of  salt  poisoning,  479 

water-trough,  355 

Soft    water,    best    for    brew 

ing, 

of  wine,  boils  at,  65 

where  to  build,  347 

269 
of, 

Spring  water,   common  heat 

of, 

windows,  352 

mahogany,  to  clean  face 

65 

Staff  of  life,  in 

337 

Spruce  beer,  244 

Staghounds  to  hunt,  378 

528 


General  Index. 


Stains,   to    take    out    of   silver, 
34o 
Stair  rods,  to  clean,  338 
Stalls  in  stable,  size  of,  352 
Starch,  what  consists  of,  no 

arrowroot,  208 

how  made,  208 

how  to  keep,  208 

potato,  208 

required  in  food,  109 

rice,  208 

to  be  kept,  196 

uses  of,  207 

wheat,  208 

yellow,  208 
Starlings,  enemies  to  pigeons,  423 
Starvation,  caused  by,  no 

causing  death,  58 
State  of  repair,  necessity  for  care 
in  ascertaining,  9 
Steam,  89 

cause  of,  96 
Stearine,  86 

Steel  knives  and  forks,  to  clean, 
34° 

made     flexible     by     nettles, 

179 
or  iron,  to  clean,  330,  339 

to    distinguish     from     iron, 

334 

Steeping  mashes,  time  for,  272 

Stems  of  grapes  pressed  in  wine, 

253 

Stereoscope,  the,  79 

derivation  of  the  name,  79 
directions  for  using,  82 
discovered  by  Professor 
Wheatstone,  79 
explanation,  by  Mr.  Wood- 
ward, of,  79 
improved  by  Sir  D.  Brewster, 

79 

reflecting,  Wheatstone  s,  80 

refracting,  Brewster's,  81 
Stewed  fresh  truffles,  184 
Still,  91 

Moselle  cup,  237 

room  maid,  261 
Stills  in  England,  261 
Stillions,  for  brewing,  description 
of,  267 
Stilton  cheese,  129 

how  to  make,  404 
Stings,  467 

St.    James's   cockle,  or   scollp, 
174 
Stock-dove,  453 
Stone  blue,  208 

marten,  where  found,  324 
Store-room,  196 

check  consumption  of  stores 
in,  196 

necessaries  in  a,  196 

qualities  of  a,  196 

tallow  candles,  to  purchase, 
196 

the    cook  when    to    supply, 

.    ,  J96 

tin  boxes  in  a,  196 
Stores,  when  to  give  out,  284 
list  of,  197 


Storing  potatoes,  166 
Stormy  petrels,  affected  by  wea- 
ther, 105 
Stout,    London,    constituents  of, 
263 
Stoves,  register,  5 
Strainers  for  dairy,  390 
Strains  in  horses,  treatment   of, 
370 
Strasbourg  geese  livers,  142 
Strawberries  in  season,  189 

uses  for,  189 

where  grown,  189 
Strawberry  syrup,  240 

acid,  241 

sherbet,   240 

vinegar,  241 
Straw  matting,  to  clean,  354 

for  bedding  for  horses,  375 

how  to  choose,  375 

price  of,  376 

quantity  necessary  of,  377 
Stud  groom,  duties  of  a,  371 
Sturgeon,  where  caught,  149 

description  of,  150 

how  cooked,  150 

whose  property,  149 
Subscriptions  to  charities,  322 
Substances    used    for    distilling 
brandy,  261 
Succatash,  127 
Suffolk  cows,  391 
Sugar,  how  obtained,  127 

cane,  what  it  contains,  221 
where  grown,  221 
how  prepared,  221 

date,  221 

drainings,  221 

from  moss,  how  made,  222 

how  to  choose,  222 

in  wines,  252 

keep  dry,  iq6 

maize,  made  from,  222 

maple,  where  grown,  222 

millet,  222 

palm,  221 

parasites  in,  222 

potato,  or  starch,  222 

quantity  per  head,  284 

raw,  or  Muscovado,  221 

required  in  food,  109 

sorghum,  how  made,  222 

sulphuric  acid  makes,  222 

syrup,  to  make,  240 

to     use    in    bottling    beer, 
277 

used  by  the  ancients,  221 

uses  for,  221 
Sulphur  in  eggs,  214 

in  onions,  174 
Sulphuric  acid,  86 
Sultana  raisins,  210 
Summer  drink,  235 
Summering  the  hunter,  377 
Sun  puts  out  fire,  69 

necessity  of,  10 
Surrey,  geese  reared  in,  420 
Sussex  cows,  390 
Swallows,  affected  by  rain,  104 
Swan,  giblet  sjup,  310 

roast,  309 


Swedes  use  rye  cakes,  119 
Sweetbreads,  larded  lambs',  141 
Sweetmeats,  keep  dry,  196 
Sweet,    Mr.,    on   keeping    birds, 

455 
Sweet  potato,  157 

herbs,  175 

how  grown,  176 

or  knotted  marjoram,  176 

wine,  how  caused,  235 
Sweetwort,  98 

Swelled  legs  in  horses,  treatment 
of.  369 
Swift,  Dean,  on  potatoes,  156 
Swiss  milk,  to  use,  228 

milk,  good  for  infants,  128 

porcelain,  marks  on,  47 
Syllabub,  244 

Devonshire,  244 
Sympathy,  an  influence,  330 
Syrup,  mulberry,  193 

blackberry,  241 

lemon,  240 

mulberry,  241 

pineapple,  240 

raspberry,  243 

simple  sugar,  240 

strawberry,  240 

vanilla,  240 


^TABLE-CLOTHS,  fine,  52 
-1-    ironmoulds,  to  remove  from, 

52 
napkins,  52 

nice  and  useful,  52 

salt,  201 

scorches,  to  remove  from,  52 

to  take  out  stains  from,  52 
Tables,  to  polish,  337 
Tacca  Oceana,  204 
Tail,   curious,    of   whidah    bird, 
44  8 

of  peacock,  425 
Tallow,  Bornean  vegetable,  85 

dips,  85 

Louisiana,  84 

melts  at,  65 
Taming,  easy,  of  chaffinch,  440 

of  goldfinches,  easy,  437 
Tangle,  186 
Tannic  acid,  94 

a  test  for  beer,  279 
Tannin  in  cloves,  203 
Tapioca,  where  grown,  205 

how  cooked,  205 

how  to  keep,  196 
Tap-trough,  for  brewing.  268 

tubs,  for  brewing,  268 
Taratoufli,  156 
Taraxacum  coffee,  180 
Tares,    or   vetches,    as    food   for 
horses,  374 
Tarragon,  where  native  of,  175 

vinegar,  T99 

when  to  gather,  175 
Tartaremetic  poisoning,  479 
Tartaric     acid    forms    insoluble 

salt  with  potash  in  wine,  252 


General  Index. 


529 


Tax,  property,  8 

Thistle  down,  for  pillows,  34 

To  take  out  fruit  stains  in  linen 

house,  per  pound,  8 

Thrush  in  horses,   treatment 

of, 

with  chloride  of  soda,  54 

land,  8 

348 

stains  out  of  linen,  54 

Taxes,  arrears  of,  9 

Thunder,  cause  of,  99 

Tcus  les  mois,  how  made,  205 
Towels,  size,  51 

Tea,  constituent  parts.  216 

Thunderstorms,  when  occurring, 

adulterations  of,  218 

101 

bath,  52 

a  gift  for  the  poor,  322 

Thyme,  where  native  of,  175 

how  to  make,  51 

apple,  233 

lemon,  where  native  of,  175 

price  of  Huckaback,  51 

at  five  o'clock,  304 

when  to  gather,  175 

Russian  crash,  51 

beef,  131 

Timely  assistance,  a  relief  to 

the 

servants',  52 

black,  how  dried,  217 

_     ,,    .      .       eye 

,  78 

Toys,  weather,  107 

bohea,  217 

Time  of  keeping  wines,  259 

Treacle,  what  it  contains,  223 
Trees,  how  to  protect  from  frost. 

brick,  how  made,  217 

Tin  spouts,  for  brewing,  268 

campoi,  217 

Tins,  to  clean,  338 

106 

caper,  how  made,  217 

Title  deeds,  10 

Tricks  learnt  by  bullfinches,  437 

congou,  217 

Titmice,  best  free,  434 

causes  of,  380 

contains  theine,  217 

Toast  and  cider,  235 

of  horses,  380 

effects  of,  217 

and  water,  233 

Tropical  climates,  food  of  natives 

green,  how  coloured,  217 

To  clean  alabaster,  335 

in,  62 

gunpowder,  217 

boards,  332 

Trousseau,  313 

herb,  243 

brass,  329 

Trout,  146 

how  scented,  217 

Britannia  metal,  340 

Truckle  cheeses,  404 

how  to  keep,  218 

candlesticks,  339 

how  to  make,  404 

how  to  make,  218 

carpets,  332 

Truffle,  182 

hyson,  217 

ccja-nut  matting,  334 

dog,  183 

hyson  skin,  217 

copper  and  brass,  338 

how  cooked,  183 

imperial,  217 

covers,  not  silver,  338 

stewed  fresh,  184 

in  the  drawing-room,  304 

curtains,  338 

to  boil  fresh,  184 

leaves,  218 

floor-cloth,  333 

where  found,  183 

lemon,  232 

furs,  328 

Tub  for  yeast  in  brewing,  268 

made  from  vine-leaves,  253 

gilding,  340 

sunK    does    for    duck-pond, 

pekoe,  how  made,  217 

gilt  lamps,  335 

418 

plant,  where  native  of,  216 

glass,  334 

Tulips,  as  ornaments,  55 

quantity  per  head,  284 

grebe,  328 

in  small  pots,  55 

rhubarb,  233 

house,  331 

Tumbler    pigeons,     ornamental, 

souchong,  217 

iron  or  steel,  339 

423 

twankay,  217 

japanned  waiters,  336 

Tunny,  where  caught,  147 

when  brought   to   England, 

lacquered  brass,  338 

Turbot,  constituent  parts  of,  146 

217 

looking-glasses,  339 

form  of,  146 

when  gathered,  217 

marble,  334 

how  cooked,  146 

Teaching   tncks  to  goldfinches. 

metal  teapot,  340 

value  of,  146 

433 

ormolu  ornaments,  335 

Turkey,  the,  420 

Teal,  143 

paint,  American,  332 

cold,  to  warm,  282 

Temperature  of  dairy,  339,  400 

plate,  339 

cramming  unnecessary,  422 

for  cooking,  138 

pots,  pans,  and  kettles,  3 

39 

dark,  the  best,  423 

Tenant  by  suffrance,  8 

real  bronze,  335 

dew  injurious  to  chicks,  422 

liable  for  rent  after  fire,  8 

stair  rods,  338 

diseases  of,  422 

Tench,  149 

sjft  mahogany,  337 

eggs,  214 

Terracotta,  stand  for  butter,  130 

steel  knives  and  forks,  340 

eggs  of,  very  delicate,  423 

Tests  for  adulteration   in  fLur. 

steel  or  iron,  336 

farmyard  bully,  42c 

116 

straw  matting,  334 

food  for,  422 

Texts  for  bedrooms,  25 

tins,  338 

hen,  a  bad  mother,  421 

Thames  water  filtered,  91 

wall  papers,  331 

how  to  tend  chicks,  421 

Thatched  pudding,  231 

Tokay, 258 

lock  for  house,  422 

Thea  sinensis,  216 

Tomato,  uses  for,  177 

Norfolk,  in  request,  423 

Theine  in  tea,  202,  218 

attacked   by  potato    blight. 

pigeon's  food,  poison  fur,  422 

Baron  Lieb.g  on.  218 

164 

poults,  good  feeding  for,  422 

Theobroma  cocoa,  220 

how  cooked,  177 

quarrelsome,  420 

Theobromine,   what  it  contains, 

how  to  keep,  177 

rain  injurious  to  chicks,  422 

220 

or  love  apple,  where  native 

sits  but  once,  423 

in  cocoa,  202 

of, 

177 

size  of,  423 

Theory  of  light,  57 

vinegar,  200 

the  fox  an  enemy  to,  422 

Thermometer,  the,  63 

when  in  season,  177 

to  carve,  303 

to  feed  chicks,  421 

Centigrade  scale,  65 

Tomatoes  and  eggs,  178 

division  of  intervals  of,  65 

Tongues,  sheep's,  en  papillotes. 

used  at  Christmas,  42a 

Fahrenheit's  scale,  65 

141 

very   delicate   when  young. 

for  brewing,  261 

Torches,  wood,  84 

42; 

for  dairy,  390 

To  restore  scorched  linen.  54 

wet  injurious  to  chicks,  422 

marks  on,  how  made,  64 

Torricelh    invents    thermometer, 

Turkeys,  appearance  of,  142 

Reaumur  scale,  66 

103 

Norfolk,  142 

scale,  how  marked,  65 

To  take  mildew  out  of  linen, 

54 

ocellated,  142 

M  M 

53o 


General  Index. 


Turkeys,  wild,  142 
Turkish  beer,  what  made  from, 
278 
Turnips  in  season,  171 

contain,  171 

how  cooked,  171 

where  native  of,  171 
Turpentine  stupes,  484 
Turtle-dove,  453 
Twankay  tea,  217 
Two  persons  should  bottle  wine, 
260 
Tyndall,  Dr.,  on  boiling  water. 
96 

on  absorbents,  67 

on  light,  73 


T  TLVA  LATIFORINA.  185 
^      latissima,  185 
Underback,  the,  for  brewing,  266 
Untrapped  sinks  4 
Utensils  for  brewing,  265 

bowls,  390 

brushes,  390 

butter  stand,  390 

cheese  tubs,  390 

churn,  300 

cloths,  390 

coolers,  390 

dLshes,  390 

for  dairy,  390 

girth  butter  boards,  390 

markers,  390 

milk  pans,  390 

pails,  390 

pots  and  pans,  390 

presses,  390 

price  of,  3i;o 

strainers,  390 

thermometer,  390 

vats,  390 

weighing  machine,  390 


\/ACCINATION,  469 
v      Valencia  raisins,  210 
Vanilla  syrup,  240 
Varnish,  best  kind  of,  336 

to  prevent  rust,  339 
Vats  for  dairy,  390 
Veal,  constituent  parts  in,  134 

cold,  to  use,  282 

flesh  of  calf,  134 

how  to  choose,  134 
Veau,  Boutelles  au  fois  de,  141 
Vegetable  life  conducive  to  animal 
life,  59 

marrow,  176 

poisons,  474 
Vegetables,  dried,  224 

and  grass,  fowls  fond  of,  409 

for  pickling  226 

requisite  in  summer,  62 

to  preserve  for  winter  use, 
184 

when  to  pickle,  226 
Veil,  used  in  cheese-making,  403 
Veneered  goods,  27 

rules  for  purchasing,  27 

Venison,  how  to  choose,  136 


Ventilation,  4 — 6 
in  stables,  352 
mistakes  in,  6 
of  a  dairy,  389 
of  fowl  house,  408 
useless  against  dust,  331 
Ventilators,  self-act. ng,  6 
Arnott's  wrong,  7 
Dr.  Arnott's,  5 
ornamental,  6 
Vermicelli,  how  made,  206 

ices  of  horses,  380 
Victoria,  the,  price  of,  386 

e,    the,   a  most  useful  vege- 
table production,  253 
brandy  from  the  must  of  the, 
253 
oil   from   the   seeds  of   the, 
253 
uses  for  branches  of  the,  253 
uses  for  prunings  of  the,  253 
uses  of  leaves  of  the,  253 
Vinegar,  how  to  make  at  home, 
19S 
camp,  199 
capsicum,  199 
Cayenne,  130 
celery,  130 
Chili,  199 
cider,  to  make,  ig3 
cress,  130 

Dr.  Ure's  receipt  for,  198 
from  vine  prunings,  253 
garlic,  199 
horseradish,  199 
how  grown,  197 
obtained  from,  197 
onion,  199 
plant,  200 
plant,  to  grow,  198 
raspberry,  244 
shallot,  199 
strawberry,  241 
tarragon,  199 

to    detect    adulteration     in, 
199 
to  make  from  wine,  199 
tomato,  200 
to  store,  199 
Virginian  nightingale,  449 
description  of,  449 
food  for,  449 
potato  described,  158 
Visiting  the  poor,  322 
Visits  of  condolence.  316 
Vulcanized    indiarubber    scrub- 
bing brush  best,  35 


^TAGGONETTE,    the    price 

Waiters,  to  hire,  291 
Wall  papers,  to  clean,  327 
Walls,  damp,  to  remedy,  n 
Walnut,  27 

how  to  preserve,  194 

in  season,  194 

tree  improved  by  beating.  194 

uses  of,  194 

where  grown,  194 
Walton,  Isaac,  on  carp,  149 


Warming  rooms   by  gas   a  mis- 
take, 7 
Warmth  necessary  for  doormice, 

433 
Wash  fowl  pans  every  day,  411 

house  for  dairy,  389 
Washing  china,  48 

increases  hunger,  63 

powders,  310 
Washstand  guard,  30 
Wassail  bowl,  311 
Waste  of  body,  109 

cause  of,  109 
Watching    required    for    Guinea 
fowl,  424 
Water,  boiled,  95 

as  food,  93 

as  ice,  89 

as  vapour,  89 

boils  at,  65 

composition  of,  90 

contains  bicarbonate  of  lime, 

93 
contains  gypsum,  93 
contains  latent  heat,  95 
contaminated,  94 
contraction  of,  89 
J  cools  us,  95 

cranberry,  240 

cress,  175 

density  of,  97 

expansion  of,  89 

filtered,  94 

for  brewing,  quality  of,  2^9 

for  horses,  377 

for  mixing  dough,  128 

freezes  at  320  F.,  65 

hard,  90 

imperial,  246 

in  cisterns,  97 

lemon,  239,  240 

mode  of  boiling,  96 

orange,  240 

plenty  of  requisite  to  pigeons, 

423 
produced   from  burning  oil, 

87 
quality  of,  93 
qualities  of,  as  a  drink,  97 
river,  91 
salt,  90 
soft,  90 

specific  gravity  cf,  91 
tests  for,  97 
Thames  filtered,  91 
to  aerate,  97 
to  preserve  fresh,  341 
to  purify,  94,  97 
what  kind   best  for   horses. 

•      •  377 

when  to  give  it,  377 

Waxbills,  delicate  birds,  450 

African,  450 

Australian,  450 

description  of,  450 

orange,  450 

St.  Helena,  450 

zebra,  450 
Wax  candles,  86,  208 

from  candleberry  myrtle,  84 

palm,  Japan,  85 


General  Index. 


53i 


Wax  myrtle,  84 

tree,  Japan,  85 
Weaning  calves,  393 
Weather,  effects  of  change  of,  93 

influenced  by  wind,  105 

prognostics  of,  104 
Wedding,  the,  313 

announcement  of,  313 

arrangements  for,  313 

breakfast,  313 

cake,  313 

cards,  313 

guests,  313 

presents,  313 
Wedges  of  willow,  115 
Wedgwood  ware,  48 
Weekly  bill  of  fare,  286 

tenancy,  rules  for,  8 
Weighing  machine  for  dairy,  390 
Weight  of  turkey,  423 
Weights  and  measures,  444 

of  bread  120 
Welfare  of  the  family   depends 
on  the  mother,  1 
Welsh  butter,  129 

cobs,  fast  trotting,  365 

cows,  391 
West  Indian  coffee,  colour  of,  48 

India  shrub,  247 
Wheat,  constituent  parts  of,  in 

flour,  in 

foreign,  113 

products  of,    when  ground, 
116 

starch,  208 

varieties  of,  112 
Wheaten  bread,  to  make,  121 

to  make  new  again,  121 
Wheatstone,  Professor,  inventor 
of  the  stereoscope,  79 
Whelks,  how  cooked,  154 
Whidah  bird,  description  of,  448 
Whisks  for  yeast,  265,  278 
Whisky,  what  distilled  from,  262 

flavour  of,  262 

punch,  265 

where  made,  262 
White  and  yellow  pine,  27 

and  black,  the  relative  heat 
of,  72 

elder  wine,  249 

geese,  490 

mice,  caged,  433 

mustard,  201 

peas,  as  food  for  horses,  374 

soap,  207 

surfaces  reflect  well,  67 
Whitebait,  148 
Whiting,  146 

extremely  digestible,  145 

how  cooked,  147 


Widgeon,  143 

Wild  duck,  144 

endive  or  chicory,  178 
spinach,  how  eaten,  180 
squirrels  store  winter    food, 

43i 
Wiltshire  cheese,  129 
Wind,  when  highest,  105 

different  qualities  of,  105 

in  cows,  remedy  for,  396 

suck.ng,  incurable  in  horses, 
366 

what  caused  by,  105 
Windows,  to  make  like  ground 
glass,  341 

in  stable,  how  to  hang,  352 
Wine  cellar,  the,  259 

artificial  heat  for,  259 

position  of,  259 

precautions  for,  250 

temperature  of,  259 

vinegar,     objectionable     in, 
259 
Wine,  where  to  buy,  253 

acid,  to  make  into  vinegar, 
199 

blackberry,  251 

black  currant,  250 

elder,  249 

elder  with  cider,  249 

flip,  248 

ginger,  250 

gooseberry,  251 

home  made,  249 

how    to    keep    when    open, 
261 

malt,  249 

orange,  251 

parsnip,  250 

raisin,  excellent,  250 

sangaree,  232) 

taraxacum,  249 

to  mull,  246 

another  way,  247 

when  ready  to  use,  260 

white  elder,  249 
Wines,  how  prepared,  252 

acetic  ether  in  old,  252 

senanthic  ether  in  all,  252 

alcohol  in,  252 

bouquet  of,  252 

butyric  ether  in  old,  252 

caprylic  ether  in  old,  252 

how  used,  297 

made  in  England.  261 

market  value  of,  252 

oxide  of  amyl  in  old,  252 

sugar  in,  252 

sugar  required  for,  261 

tartaric  acid  in,  252 
Winter  bouquet,  55 


Winter  food  for  cows,  393 

luncheon    party,    carte    for, 

37o 
majoram,  176 
supper,  306 
Winters  in  Siberia,  90 
Wire  netting  for  dahlias,  55 
Wollaston's,  Dr.,  instrument  for 
measuring  heights,  96 
Wood  ashes,  effect  on  water,  91 
Woodlark,     music     master     for 
canaries,  446 
Wood,  Mr.,  on  nest  of  dormouse, 

432 
Woods  for  furnishing,  26 

resinous,  84 
Woodward,   Mr.,   description  of 
phenomena  produced  by 
stereoscope,  79 
Woody  fibre  useless  in  food,  no 
Worcester  china,  46 
Workroom.  25 
Wormwood  for  fowls,  410 
Wort  of  beer,  must  run  clear,  272 
injured  by  waiting,  270 
temperature   of,    for    adding 
•yeast,  273 
time  for  boiling,  273 
to    be     kept    stirred    while 
boiling,  273 
Wounds  cured  by  vine  leaves,  253 
Wren,  gold-crested,  456 
Wrens,  best  free,  434 


YEARLY  TENANT,  8 
*  tenancy,  rules  for,  8 

Yeast,  121 

brewer's,  bitter,  121 
description  of,  121 
dried,    to   prepare    for    use, 
278 
fermentation   caused   by  too 
much  water,  123 
how  to  keep,  122 
how  to  mix  with  wort,  274 
plant,  121 

process  of  making,  121 
to  dry,  122 

to  make  for  home  consump- 
tion, No.  1,  122 

No.   2,   122 

No.  3,  122 
to  preserve  for  brewing,  278 
to  preserve   with   glycerine, 

to  prevent  bitterness  in,  121 

where  made,  121 
Yellow  soap,  208 

starch,  209 
Yewberries  poisoning,  478 


THE    END. 


LONDON  : 
P..    CLAY.   SONS.    AND   TAYLOR, 
BKKAD  STREET   HILL. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  6V  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


JJtepttf  J?ijB$mrfiiftm  funics. 

In  large  post  4to,  price  ^i  is.,  cloth  gilt  and  gilt  edges. 

NATURE    PICTURES. 

A  Series  of  30  Original  Illustrations,  drawn  on  Wood  by  J.  H. 
Dell,  and  engraved  in  the  first  style  of  Art  by  R.  Paterson.  With 
Letterpress  descriptions. 

In  imperial  4to,  price  ^*i  is.,  cloth  gilt  and  gilt  edges. 

GOLDEN       THOUGHTS 

FROM  GOLDEN  FOUNTAINS. 

With  original  large   Illustrations. 

In  demy  8vo,  price  ^4,  cloth  gilt, 
The  Library  Edition,  in  Six  Volumes,  of 

SHAK  SPEAR  E'S    COMEDIES 

Histories,  Tragedies  and  Poems. 

By    J.     PAYNE     COLLIER. 

In  fcap.  4to,  elegantly  printed  on  a  special  Thin  Paper,  with  a  Red-line 

Border  and  original  Illustrations,  price  10s.  6d.,  elegantly  bound, 

cloth,  red  under  gilt  edges ;  or  in  morocco,  £i  $s. 

SHAKSPEARE'S    POETICAL     WORKS. 

SCOTT'S  POETICAL  WORKS. 

MILTON'S    POETICAL   WORKS. 

LONGFELLOW'S     POETICAL     WORKS. 

BYRON'S   POETICAL   WORKS. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


2  FREDERICK    WARNE  &   CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 

Jlfegani  yr^tttatiutt  Jinnies* 

In  royal  4to,  price  ios.  6d.,  half  bound,  picture  cover. 

BARON     MUNCHAUSEN: 

His  Adventures. 
Comprising  Eighteen  magnificent  Coloured  Plates  from  original 
designs  by  Bichard,  and  full  Descriptive  Text. 

In  square  crown  8vo,  price  gs.,  cloth  gilt,  gilt  edges,  Fourth  Edition, 
with  New  Illustrations. 

CYCLOPEDIC  SCIENCE  SIMPLIFIED. 

By  Professor  Pepper,  of  the  Polytechnic  Institution. 
Embracing  Magnetism  (including  the  Telephone),  Light,  Heat, 
Electricity,  Pneumatics,  Acoustics,  Chemistry.  With  upwards 
of  Six  Hundred  Illustrations. 

In  fcap.  4to,  price  gs.,  cloth  gilt,  gilt  edges. 

OTHER     MEN'S     MINDS; 

Or,  Seven  Thousand  Choice  Extracts  on  History,  Science,  Philosophy, 
Religion,  &c.   From  Standard  Authors.    Classed  in  Alphabetical  Order. 
Edited  and  Selected  by  E.  Davies,  D.D. 

THE  STANDARD  BOOK  OF  GAMES   AND  SPORTS. 


In  square  crown  8vo,  price  js.  6d. ,  cloth  gilt. 

THE    MODERN   PLAYMATE. 

A  New  Book  of  Games,  Sports,  and  Diversion  for  Boys  of  all  Ages. 
Compiled  and  Edited  by  Rev.  J.  G.  Wood.      Fully  Illustrated. 

In  square  crown  8vo,  price  js.  6d.,  cloth  gilt  and  gilt  edges,  The 

HOME  BOOK  FOR  YOUNG  LADIES. 

An  Original  Work,  with  250  Choice  Illustrations. 
Edited  by  Mrs.  Valentine. 
This  Volume  aims  to  be  a  Standard  Book  for  Play,  Work,  Art,  Duty- 
Games  for  Pliy  Hours,   Work  for  Leisure  in  the  Home  Circle,  Art  for  the 
Cultivation  of  Taste,  and  Duty  to  ensure  Home  Happiness. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


POPULAR   WORKS    BY   T.  RYMER   JONES,     F.R.S. 


In  square  crown  8vo,  price  js.  6d.  each,  cloth  gilt  and  gilt  edges. 

MAMMALIA: 

A  Popular  Introduction  to  Natural  History. 
With  200  Illustrations. 

THE    ANIMAL    CREATION: 

A  Poptilar  Introduction  to  Zoology. 
With  500  Illustrations. 

THE  NATURAL  HISTORY  OF  BIRDS  : 

A  Popular  Introduction  to  Ornithology. 
With  200  Illustrations. 

In  square  crown  8vo,  price  js.  6d.,  cloth,  gilt  edges. 

THE    ANGLER'S    SOUVENIR. 

Edited  by  G.  Christopher  Davies. 
With  Original  Woodcuts  and  33  Page  Steel  Engravings. 

In  large  crown  8vo,  price  js.  6d.,  cloth,  gilt  edges. 

HERALDRY,  Ancient  and  Modern. 

Including    Boutell's     Heraldry.     Edited    and    Revised    by 
S.   T.  Aveling.     Containing  nearly  500  Illustrations. 

In  square  crown  8vo,  price  5^.  cloth  gilt  ;  or  6s.  with  gilt  edges. 

SWISS    FAMILY   ROBINSON. 

A  New  Translation,  by  Mrs.   H.   B.   Paull,  from  the  Original 
Edition.     With  numerous  choice  Illustrations. 

In  square  fcap.,  price  is.  6d.,  cloth,  gilt  edges. 

LANGUAGE  &  SENTIMENT  OF  FLOWERS. 

Compiled  and  Edited  by  L.  V.     With  Floral  Records  and  Page 
Illustrations,  printed  in  Colours. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  cV  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


AN  IMPORTANT  ADDITION  TO  ANY  LIBRARY. 


In  demy  8vo,  price  i8j.  half-bound,  1,100  pp. 

The  Fifth  Edition  of 

TOWNSEND'S 

MANUAL     OF     DATES 

Entirely  Re-modelled  and  Edited 
By    FREDERICK     MARTIN, 

Editor  of  "The  Statesman's  Year  Book,"  &c. 
With  Additional  Index  of  special  references. 
This  Edition  is  printed  in  larger  type  than  the  previous  ones,  and 
has  been  remodelled  and  re-edited  throughout  by  an  editor  of  much 
experience  ;  an  extensive  Supplementary  Index  has  also  been  added. 
The  work  is  now  printed  in  demy  8vo,  and,  in  comparison  with  other 
works  on  a  similar  subject,  it  will  be  found  to  be  the  most  concise  and 
yet  comprehensive  of  any  issued. 

In  square  crown  8vo,  price  ys.  6d.,  cloth  gilt,  gilt  edges. 

Flora  Symbolica  ;  or,  The  Language  and  Sentiment 

of  Flowers.  Including  Floral  Poetry,  Original  and  Selected. 
Compiled  and  Edited  by  John  Ingram.  With  16  pages  of 
Original  Coloured  Illustrations. 

A     HANDSOME    PRESENTATION    BOOK. 
In  fcap.  4to,  price  js.  6d.,  cloth,  gilt,  640  pages. 

Sport  in  Many  Lands  :  Europe  and  Asia;  Africa 
and  America.  By  "The  Old  Shekarry."  With  Two  Hun- 
dred Illustrations.     

In  large  crown  8vo,  55.,  cloth,  elegantly  gilt. 

The  Reverse  of  the  Shield ;  or,  Grenville  le  Mar- 
chant  in  the  Franco-Prussian  War.  By  Augusta  Marryat. 
400  pages,  14  page  Plates,  and  Map. 


In  royal  4to,  price  js.  6d.,  picture  boards. 

Dore'sTwo  Hundred  Humorous  and  Grotesque 

Sketches. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS,  5 

Under  this  distinctive  title  are  now  published  New  and  Elegant  Volumes 
of  Standard  Poetry,  fully  Illustrated,  well  Edited,  and  printed  with  a  Red- 
line  Border,  Steel  Portraits,  &*c. 


In  crown  8vo,  price  js.  6d.  each,  cloth  gilt,  gilt  edges ;  or  morocco,  \6s. 
The  Poetical  Works  of   Longfellow. 

The  Legendary  Ballads  of  England  and  Scotland.      Edited 

and  compiled  by  John  S.  Roberts. 
Scott's  Poetical  Works.     With  numerous  Notes. 

Eliza  Cook's   Poems.      A  Complete  Edition,  with  Portrait  and 

Steel  Illustrations. 

Moore's  Poetical  Works.     With  numerous  Notes. 
Cowper's  Poetical  Works.     Edited  from  the  best  Editions. 
Milton's  Poetical  Works.     Edited  from  the  best  Editions. 
Wordsworth's  Poetical  Works. 
Byron's   Poetical   Works.      With  Explanatory  Notes. 
Mrs.  Hemans'  Poetical  Works.     With  Memoir,  &c. 
Burns'    Poetical  Works.      With  Explanatory  Glossarial  Notes. 
Hood's   Poetical  Works.     With  Life. 
Campbell's  Poetical  Works.     With  Memoir. 
Coleridge's  Poetical  Works.     With  Memoir,  Notes,  &c. 
Sheliey;s  Poetical  Works.     With  Memoir,  Notes,  &c. 
Pope's  Homer's  Iliad  &  Odyssey.  With  Flaxman's  Illustrations. 
Pope's  Poetical  Works.     With  Original  Notes. 
Mackay's  Complete  Poetical  Works.     Revised  by  the  Author. 
Herbert's  (George)  Poems  and  Prose.     With  Notes,  &c. 
Heber's  (Bishop)  Poetical  Works.     With  Notes,  &c. 
Keble's  (John)  The  Christian  Year. 

Uniform  in  size,  price,  and  style,  but  without  Red-litie. 

Poets  of  the  Nineteenth  Century.  With  120  Illustrations  by 
J.  E.  Millais,  Tenniel,  Pickersgill,  Sir  J.  Gilbert,  Harrison 
Weir,  &c. 

The  Spirit  of  Praise.  A  Collection  of  Hymns,  Old  and  New, 
with  upwards  of  One  Hundred  choice  Illustrations. 

Christian  Lyrics.  From  Modern  Authors.  With  Two  Hun- 
dred and  Fifty  Illustrations. 

Shakspeare  :    The  Plays  and  Poems.     1200  pp.,  with  Portrait. 

Montgomery's  (James)  Poetical  Works.  With  Prefatory 
Memoir  and  Explanatory  Notes.     100  Original  Illustrations. 

BEDFORD   STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO..  PUBLISHERS, 


%wqu?*  Tt^tam  gift-foals. 


In  crown  8vo,  price  5s.  each,  cloth  gilt ;  or  6s.  with  gilt  edges. 
Old   Pictures   in  a  New   Frame.     By  Douglas   Straight. 

With  Original  Illustrations. 

Robinson  Crusoe.  Unabridged  Edition.  With  Life,  Notes, 
and  fully  Illustrated  with  Woodcuts  and  large  Plates  by  Ernest  Griset. 

The  Swiss  Family  Robinson.  New  Edition.  Translated  from 
the  Original  German  by  Mrs.  Paull.     With  Illustrations. 

Grimm's  Tales  and  Stories.  A  New  Translation.  Specially 
adapted  and  arranged  for  Young  People.     16  Original  Illustrations. 

The  Broad,  Broad  Ocean,  and  Some  of  its  Inhabitants.  By 
William  Jones,  F.S.A.     With  Original  Illustrations. 

The  Arabian  Nights.  Revised  throughout,  with  Notes  by  the 
Rev.  Geo.  Fyler  Townsend. 

Andersen's  (Hans)  Fairy  Tales.  A  New  Translation  from  the 
German.     By  Mrs.  Paull.     Illustrated. 

The  Swan  and  her  Crew  :  The  Adventures  of  Three  Young 
Naturalists  and  Sportsmen.  Third  Edition.  By  G.  Christopher  Davies. 
Fully  Illustrated. 

Wildcat  Tower:  A  Book  for  Boys.  By  the  Author  of  "The 
Swan  and  her  Crew."     Fully  Illustrated. 

Nursery  Rhymes,  Tales,  and  Jingles  of  Great  Britain.  A 
Complete  Collection,  with  400  Illustrations. 

Waterton's  Essays  on  Natural  History.  Edited  by  Norman 
Moore.     With  Original  Illustrations  and  Steel  Portrait. 

Gath  to  the  Cedars.  Travels  in  the  Holy  Land  and  Palmyra. 
By  S.  H.  Kent.     Seccnd  Edition.     With  Photograph  and  Illustrations. 

Treasures  of  the  Earth  ;  or,  Mines,  Minerals,  and  Metals.  By 
William  Jones,  F.S.A.     Original  Illustrations. 

Uniform  in  Price  with  the  above. 

^2sop's  Fables.  Translated  into  English  by  Samuel  Croxall, 
D.D.,  with  New   Instructive  Applications,  Morals,  &c.     no  Illustrations. 

In  crown  8vo,  price  is.,  illuminated  boards  ;  or  cloth  gilt,  is.  6d. 

CHURCH    DECORATIONS: 

A  Practical  Manual  of  Appropriate  Ornamentation.     With  Coloured 
Illustrations  and  numerous  Woodcuts. 


BEDFORD    STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK    WARNE   &   CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 

Entirely  New  Edition,  Red  Line  Border. 
With  Original  Notes,  Steel  Portraits,  and  full-page  Illustrations. 

Large  crown  8vo,  cloth  extra,   gilt,  gilt  edges,  price  3^.  6d.  each  ; 
or  in  morocco  elegant,  8s. 

Shakspeare's  Poetical  Works. 

Longfellow's  Poetical  Works. 

Byron's  Poetical  Works. 

Eliza  Cook's  Poems. 

Scott's  Poetical  Works. 

Burns'  Poetical  Works. 

Moore's    Poetical   Works. 

Cowper's     Poetical    Works. 

Milton's    Poetical   Works. 

Wordsworth's   Poetical  Works. 

Mrs.    Hemans'   Po.etical    Works. 

Hood's  Poetical  Works. 

Shelley's  Poetical  Works. 

Mackay's  Complete  Poetical  Works. 

Pope's  Poetical  Works. 
Keele's  (John)  The  Christian  Year. 

Goldsmith's  Poetical  Works. 

Montgomery   (James)  Poetical   Works. 

Johnson's  Lives  of  the  Poets. 

Heber's   (Bishop)  Poetical  Works. 

Herbert's    (George)    Poems    and    Prose. 

Also  uniform,  without  red  line  Border. 

Campbell's     Poetical    Works. 

Keats'  Poetical  Works. 

Coleridge's    Poetical     Works. 

The    Poets'   Year. 

Songs,    Sacred   and  Devotional. 

Golden  Leaves  from  the  American  Poets. 

Legendary  Ballads  of   England  and  Scotland. 

Laurel  and  Lyre. 

Michell's   Nature  and  Life. 

bedford  street,  strand. 


8  FREDERICK    WARNE   &>   CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 

V)\t  denims  JutmnL 

A  Series  of  Statidard  Works  in  all  Classes  of  Literature. 

In  crown  8vo,  price  35.  6d.  each,  cloth  gilt. 
The    Percy  Anecdotes.      By   Reuben    and   Sholto   Percy. 

Verbatim  Reprint  of  Original  Edition.  Introduction  by  John  Timbs. 
Original  Steel  Portraits,  and  Index.     Three  Vols.,  each  Complete  in  itself. 

Pepys'  Diary  and  Correspondence.    With  Seven  Steel  Portraits 

arranged  as  a  Frontispiece,  Memoir,  Introductory  Preface,  and  full  Index. 

Abbeys,  Castles,  and  Ancient  Halls  of  England  and  Wales. 

Their  Legendary  Lore  and  Popular  History — South,  Midland,  North.  By 
John  Timbs,  Author  of  "  Curiosities  of  London."  and  Alexander  Gunn. 
New  Frontispiece.     Three  Vols.     Each  Volume  Complete  in  itself. 

Johnson's  Lives  of  the  Poets;  with  Critical  Observations  on 
their  Works,  and  a  Sketch  of  the  Author's  Life  by  Sir  Walter    Scott. 

Book  of  Authors.  A  Collection  of  Criticisms,  Ana,  Mots,  Per- 
sonal Descriptions,  &c.     By  W.  Clark  Russell. 

Evelyn's  Diary  and  Correspondence.  Edited  by  Bray.   784  pp. 

With  Frontispiece  and  full  Index. 

Gibbon's  Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire.       With 

Portrait.     Three  Vols. 

A  Century  of  Anecdote.     Compiled  and  Edited  by  John  Timbs. 

With  Frontispiece. 

Pope's  Homer's  Iliad  and  Odyssey.    Flaxman's  Illustrations. 

Scott's  Lives  of  Eminent  Novelists  and  Dramatists. 

Don    Quixote    (Life   and   Adventures  of).     By  Cervantes. 

The  Koran :  A  verbatim  Reprint.     With  Maps,  Plans,  &c. 

The  Talmud  (Selections  from).    H.  Polano.    Maps,  Plans,  &c. 

Gil  Bias  (The  Adventures  of).     By  Le  Sage. 

Carpenter's  Popular  Elocutionist.     With  Portrait. 

Walton   and    Cotton's    Angler.     Edited,   with   Notes,    by  G. 

Christopher  Davies. 
The  Peninsular  War  and  the  Campaigns  of  Wellington  in 

France  and  Belgium.     By  H.  R.  Clinton. 
Fugitive   Poetry  of  the    Last    Three    Centuries.     Edited  by 

J.  C.  Hutchieson. 
White's  Natural  History  of  Selborne.  Numerous  Illustrations. 
Lamb's  Poems  and  Essays. 
Spenser's  Poetical  Works.     With  Portrait. 

In  crown  8vo,  cloth  gilt,  profusely  Illustrated,  price  5J.  each. 

THE    ROMANCE    OF     HISTORY. 

COMPRISING — 

England.    By  Henry  Neele.    21  Illustrations  by  T.  Landseer. 
France.    By  Leitch  Ritchie.    21  Illustrations  by  T.  Landseer. 
Spain.  By  Don  T.  DeTrueba.   Illustrations  by  J.   K.  Meadows. 
Italy.     By  C.  Macfarlane.     21  Illustrations  by  T.  Landseer. 
India.  By  the  Rev.  Hobart  Caunter,  B.D.   With  Illustrations. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


ants'*  3$>  6&+  Jrattstoums  Ifmtrf*  attir  S>afe*< 


Small  crown  8vo,  gilt  edges,  with  Original  Illustrations. 

One  Year;  or,  The  Three  Homes. 

By  F.  M.  P. 
On  the  Edge  of  the  Storm. 

By  the  Author  of  "  Denise." 
Fair  Else,  Duke  Ulrich,  &c. 

By  Author  of  "On the  Edge  of  the  Storm." 
Clare  Savile.  By  Miss  Luard. 

Lady  Betty.  By  Christabel  Coleridge. 

Vivia  :  A  Modern  Story.      By  Florence  Wilford. 

By  Florence  Wilford. 

By  Christabel  Coleridge. 

By  Marian  James. 

By  Author  of  "  Sydonie's  Dowry,"  &c. 
Ditto  ditto. 

By  Mrs.  H.  B.  Paull. 

By  Mrs.  Valentine. 

By  E.  M.  B. 


Nigel  Bartram's  Ideal. 

Hanbury  Mills. 

Anne  Dynevor. 

Tales,  Old  and  New. 

Denise. 

Evelyn  Howard. 

The  Knight's  Ransom. 

May  and  her  Friends. 

Arum  Field  ;  or,  Life's  Reality. 

By  Mrs.  J.  Mercier. 


■ 


Ufam**  Jitinvt  yhqmnit** 

Eleven  Distinct  Volumes. 

Each  Volume  containing  from  32  to  48  pages  of  Coloured  Illustrations 

and  Letterpress  Descriptions. 


In  super-royal  8vo,  price  3s.  6d.  each,  cloth  gilt,  gilt  edges. 


1.  Book  of  Trades  Playmate. 

3.  The  Cinderella  Playmate. 

4.  Cock  Robin's  Playmate. 

5.  The  Robins'  Playmate. 

8.  Nursery  Songs  Playmate. 


9.  The  Alphabet  Playmate. 

10.  The  Dash's  Holiday  Play- 

mate. 

11.  The  Daisy  Playmate. 


BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK    WARNE   6*   CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 
With  Illustrations,  Coloured  or  Plain. 


In  crown  8vo,  cloth  gilt. 
Jack    Stanley  ;     or,    The    Young    Adventurers.       By    Emilia 

Marryat  (Mrs.  Norris). 

White's  Natural  History  of  Selborne.  Edited  by  G.C.Davies. 

Robinson  Crusoe.     By  Defoe. 

Swiss  Family  Robinson.     Unabridged. 

The  Young  Lamberts.     A  Boy's  Adventures  in  Australia.     By 

Augusta  Marryat. 
Heroism  and  Adventure.    A  Book  for  Boys.     Edited  by  Mrs. 

Valentine. 
Cavaliers  and  Roundheads.     By  John  G.  Edgar. 
Among  the  Tartar  Tents ;  or,  The  Lost  Fathers.     By  Anne 

Bowman. 

Who  Won  at  Last.     By  J.  T.  Trowbridge. 

Cris  Fairlie's  Boyhood.     A  Tale  of  an  Old  Town.      By  Mrs. 

ElLOART. 

God's  Silver  ;  or,  Youthful  Days.     By  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Greene. 

Martin  Noble  ;  or,  A  London  Boy's  Life.     By  John  G.  Watts. 

The  Young  Squire.     By  Mrs.  Eiloart. 

Captain  Jack;  or,  Old  Fort  Duquesne. 

Wild  Sports  and  Savage  Life  in  Zulu  Land. 

Edgeworth's  Moral  and  Popular  Tales. 

Edgeworth's  Early  Lessons. 

Bunyan's  Pilgrim's  Progress.     With  Coloured  Plates. 

Sea  Fights  and  Land  Battles. 

Adrift  in  a  Boat  and  Washed  Ashore. 

Uncle  Tom's  Cabin.     By  H.  B.  Stowe. 


With  Illustrations. 


Crown  8vo,  cloth  gilt,  new  style. 
Seven  to  Seventeen.     By  M.  M.  Bell. 
Kate  Duncan  ;  or,  A  Hidden  Wrong.     By  Mrs.  Valentine. 
Seventeen  to  Twenty-one.     By  M.  M.  Bell. 
The  Carbridges.     By  M.  Bramston. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &*  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


WARNE'S 

2s.  6fc.  "  MUu  JHrifo"  jtafo  «f  Oifi-gnnfe, 

In  square  fcap.  8vo,  with  Original  Illustrations,  cloth  gilt. 
Golden  Links.  By  Aunt  Friendly. 
Tales  for  Boys  and  Girls. 
Sylvia  and  Janet.     By  A.  C.  D. 
Margaret    Woodward  ;    or,  Sum- 

merlei°:h   Manor.      By  the  Author 

of  "Mdlle.  Mori." 
Sydonie's  Dowry.     By  the  Author 

of  "  Denise." 
Father  Clement.  Grace  Kennedy. 
The  Basket  of  Flowers.     With  12 

Coloured  Plates. 
The  Story  of  the  Robins.    With  12 

Coloured  Plates. 
Madeleine's      Trial ;      and     other 

Stories.     By  Madame  Pressense. 
Hester's    Fortune;    or,   Pride  and 

Humility. 
Campanella  ;    or,  The  Teachings  of 

Life.     By  Mrs.  Mercier. 

BY  CATHERINE  D.    BELL   (COUSIN  KATE). 
Square  fcap.  8vo,  gilt,  with  Illustrations,  (new  style). 

Ella  and  Marian  ;  or,  Rest  and  Un- 
rest, [tery. 
Kenneth  and  Hugh  ;  or,  Self-Mas- 
Rosa's  Wish,  and  How  she  Attained 

it. 
Margaret  Cecil ;  or,  I  Can  because 

I  Ought. 
The  Grahames  :  or,  Home  Life. 
Home  Sunshine  ;  or,  The  Gordons. 
Aunt    Ailie ;    or,    Patience   and   its 
Reward. 


Picciola  ;  or,  The  Prison  Flower.  By 
X.  B.  Saintine. 

Christabel  Hope ;  or,  The  Begin- 
nings of  Life.     By  Mrs.  Mercier. 

Home  Recreations  and  Foreign 
Travel.     Coloured  Plates. 

Eildon  Manor  :    A  Tale  for  Girls. 

Marian  and  her  Pupils.  By  Char- 
lotte Lankester. 

First  Steps  in  the  Better  Path. 
By  Aunt  Friendly. 

Filling  up  the  Chinks.  By  Hon. 
Mrs.  Greene. 

Two  Years  of  School  Life.  By 
Madame  De  Pressense.  Edit,  by 
Author  of  "The  Heir  of  Redclyffe." 

Laura  and  Lucy  ;  A  Tale  lor  Girls. 
By  Charlotte  Adams. 

Lucy  West  ;  or,  The  Orphans  of 
Highcliffe.     By  Mrs.  H.  B.  Paull. 


Lily  Gordon,  the  Young  House- 
keeper. 

The  Huguenot  Family;  or,  Help 
in  Time  of  Need. 

Sydney  Stuart  ;  or,  Love  Seeketh 
Not  her  Own. 

Mary  Elliott;  or,  Be  Ye  Kind  to 
One  Another. 

Hope  Campbell  ;  or,  Know  Thyself. 

Horace  and  May  ;  or,  Unconscious 
Influence. 


With  Appropriate  Hymns,  Ditties,  &c. 

In  demy  oblong,  price  is.  each,  sewed. 
The  Children's  Hour.     Twelve  Songs   for  the  Little  Ones,  set 

to  Music.    Edited  by  Mrs.  G.  H.  Curteis. 
Songs  for  our    Little    Friends.     Twelve  Nursery  Ditties.    Set 

to  Music  by  E.  R.  B. 
The    Children's    Musical    Gem.       Fourteen   Nursery   Ditties. 

Edited  and  set  to  Music  by  Madame  Borrani. 
The  Nursery  Nightingale.     Edited,  &c,,  by  Madame  Borrani. 

Demy  4to,  price  $s.,  cloth  gilt,  and  gilt  edges. 
The    Children's  Musical   Companion.     Comprising  the  above 

Books  bound  in  One  Volume. 


BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK   WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 
With  Original  Illustrations,  Coloured  or  Plain,  fcap.  8vo,  gilt,  new  style. 


The  Danes  in  England.      A  Tale 

of  the   Days  of   King  Alfred.      By 

Alfred  H.  Englebach. 
King  Hetel's   Daughter;  or,  The 

Fair  Gudrun. 
Wars  of  the  Roses.     J.  G.  Edgar. 
Sea  Fights,  from  Sluys  to  Navarino. 
Land     Battles,    from    Hastings    to 

Inkerman. 
Daring  Deeds  of  Adventure.     By 

J.  S.   BORLASE. 

Walter's   Escape  ;  or,  The  Capture 
of  Breda.     By  De  Liefde. 


The  Boy's  Book  of  Heroes.       By 

Helena  Peake. 
Ralph   Luttrell's    Fortunes.      By 

H.  St.  John  Corbet. 
A  Life's  Voyage  ;  or,  With  the  Tide. 

By  Sidney  Daryl. 
The  Boy  with  an  Idea.     By  Mrs. 

ElLOART. 

Tales  of  Old  Ocean.     C.  R.  Low. 
True  Stories  of  Brave  Deeds. 
Robinson  Crusoe.     By  Defoe. 
Swiss  Family  Robinson. 
Willis  the  Pilot. 


IHant^s  JAi&t  j>ouk$  for  Juttfn  y$up{^> 

In  sq.  crown  8vo,  2s.  6d.  each,  cloth  gilt,  fully  Illustrated. 
Little  Lou's  Sayings  and  Doings.     By  Mrs.  Prentiss. 
Little  Susy.     By  Mrs.  E.  Prentiss. 
Getting  Well.     Tales  for  Little  Convalescents.     By  Mrs.  Bradford. 


frame's  u  jbfot  Joules." 

With  Original  Illustrations,  crown  8vo,  gilt,  zs.  6d. 
*Prince  of  the  House  of  David.    By  Rev.  J.  H.  Ingraham. 
*The  Throne  of  David.     By  Rev.  J.  H.  Ingraham. 
*The  Pillar  of  Fire.     By  Rev.  J.  H.  Ingraham. 

From  Jest  to  Earnest.     By  Rev.  E.  P.  Roe. 

Edgeworth's  (Maria)  Moral  Tales. 

Edgeworth's  (Maria)  Popular  Tales. 

Edgeworth's  (Maria)  Early  Lessons. 

Edgeworth's  (Maria)  Parents'  Assistant. 
*Zenobia;  or,  The  Fall  of  Palmyra.     By  Rev.  W.  Ware. 
*Rome  and  the  Early  Christians.     By  Rev.  W.  Ware. 
*Julian  ;  or,  The  Days  of  the  Apostate.     By  Rev.  W.  Ware. 
*The  Lamplighter.     By  Miss  Cummins. 

Barriers  Burned  Away.     By  Rev.  E.  P.  Roe. 

Opening  a  Chestnut  Burr.     By  Rev.  E.  P.  Roe. 

Say  and  Seal.      By  Miss  Wetherell. 

Ellen  Montgomery's  Bookshelf. 

Dunallan  ;  or,  Know  Thyself.     By  Grace  Kennedy. 

Helen.     By  Miss  Edgeworth. 

Uncle  Tom's  Cabin.     By  H.  B.  Stovve. 

*  The  starred  volumes  are  also  bound,  gilt  edges,  price  3s.  6d.  each. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &•  CO.,  PUBLISHERS,  13 


H[ari»'s  2s.  "fonttflirtft "  gHt-|trnIis. 

Small  crown  8vo,  with  Original  Illustrations,  cloth  gilt. 
Helen  Leslie  ;  or,  A  Little  Leaven.  By  Darley  Dale. 
Lamb's  Tales  from  Shakspeare. 

Ose;  or,  The  Alpine  Flower.  By  Author  of  "  Mdlle.  Mori." 

How  to  be  Happy.  By  Catherine  D.  Bell. 

The  Old  Bible  ;  or,  The  Martyr's  Gift.    By  E.  Wynne. 
The  Children  of  the  Pear  Garden.     By  E.  L.  Hervey. 
Only  a  Girl's  Life.  By  Mrs.  J.  Mercier. 

The  Rock  Light ;  or,  Duty  our  Watchword.    By  E.  L.  Hervey. 
Louie  Atterbury.     A  Book  for  Girls. 
The  Story  of  the  Robins.     With  Coloured  Illustrations. 

By  Mrs.  Trimmer. 
The  Basket  of  Flowers.     With  Coloured  Illustrations. 
Philis  Phil ;  or,  Alone  in  the  World.     By  Miss  Keary. 
Benaiah  ;  A  Tale  of  the  Captivity.  By  Mrs.  Webb. 
Cushions  and  Corners.  By  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Greene. 

Mary  Leigh;  or,  Purpose  in  Life.    By  Mrs.  Geldart. 
What  Katy  Did.  By  Susan  Coolidge. 

What  Katy  Did  at  School.  By  Susan  Coolidge. 

BY    THE    REV.   H.    C.    ADAMS. 
Falconshurst ;  or,  M eta's  Birthday. 
Stories  of  the  Kings. 
Stories  of  the  Prophets. 
Gannet  Island  ;  or,  Willie's  Birthday. 
The  Judges  of  Israel. 
Sundays  at  Encombe ;  or,  Tales  for  Sunday  Reading. 


Harass  %*+u  %ndUnl  k  Jtotmtim"  yiWtntq. 

Small  crown  8vo,  Coloured  or  Plain  Frontispiece,  and  numerous 
Illustrations,  cloth  gilt. 
Baron  Munchausen  :  His  Adventures. 
Gulliver's  Travels.  By  Dean  Swift. 

Doing  his  Best.  By  J.  T.  Trowbridge. 

The  Way  to  Win.  By  Charles  A.  Beach. 

Too  Good  for  Anything.  By  Charles  A.  Beach. 

Jack  Hazard  and  his  Fortunes.  By  J.  T.  Trowbridge. 

Washed  Ashore  ;  or,  The  Tower  of  Stormount  Bay. 

By  W.  H.  G.  Kingston. 
The  Swiss  Family  Robinson.     Fully  Illustrated. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


14  FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 

Warne's  25.  "Incident  and  Adventure"  'Library— co?itinued. 
Evenings  at  Home.  By  Aiken  and  Barbauld. 

Sandford  and  Merton.  By  Thomas  Day. 

Robinson  Crusoe.  By  Daniel  Defoe. 

Willis  the  Pilot.     A  "  Sequel  to  "Swiss  Family  Robinson." 
St.  George's  Key.  By  W.  E.  Coghlan. 

Brave  Days  of  Old.      Selected  and  Edited  by  Mrs.  Valentine. 
Daring  and  Doing.       Selected  and  Edited  by  Mrs.  Valentine. 
Jarwin  and  Cuffy.    A  Tale  for  Boys.    By  R.  M.  Ballantyne. 
Adrift  in  a  Boat.     A  Story  for  Boys.    By  W.  H.  G.  Kingston. 
The  Silver  Lake  ;  or,  Lost  in  the  Snow.  By  R.  M.  Ballantyne. 
The  Silver  Cup  ;  or,  True  Heroism.    A  Book  for  Boys. 
My  Dog  Match.  By  Holme  Lee. 

Uncle  Tom's  Cabin.  By  H.  B.  Stowe. 


Large  fcap.  8vo,  with  Original  Illustrations,  cloth,  gilt  edges. 

The  Good  Shepherd.     By  Mrs.  Valentine. 

Charlie  and  Ernest.     By  M.  Betham  Edwards. 

The  Lost  Heir;  or,  Truth  and  Falsehood. 

Henry  Burton  ;   or,  The  Reward  of  Patience. 

The  Torn  Bible ;  or,  Hubert's  Best  Friend. 

Cousin  Annie  ;  or,  Heart  and  Hand. 

Maud  Latimer;  or,  Patience  and  Impatience. 

Fritz  ;  or,  Experience  Teacheth  Wisdom. 

William  Henry's  School-Days.     By  A.  M.  Diaz, 

Children's  Sayings ;  or,  Early  Life  at  Home. 

By  Caroline  Hadley. 
Round  the  Fire  Stories. 

The  Burtons  of  Burton  Hall.     By  Hon.  Mrs.  Greene. 
My  Sunday  Companion. 
Bowman's  Poetry.     (Plain  edges.) 
Excelsior  Poetry  Book.     100  Illustrations.     (Plain  edges.) 

BY  CATHERINE  D.   BELL. 

Arnold  Lee:  or,  Rich  Boys  and  Poor  Boys. 

An  Autumn  at  Karnford. 

Allen  and  Harry. 

Georgie  and  Lizzie;  or,  Self-Denial. 

The  Douglas  Family;  or,  Friendship. 


BEDFORD   STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK    WARNE  6»   CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


*5 


With,  large  Original  Page  Plates  by  the  First  Artists,  in  the  very 
best  style  of  Colour  Printing,  with  Letterpress  Descriptions. 


In  demy  4to,  is.  each,  picture  covers  ;   or  Mounted  on  Linen,  2s. 


1.  The  Railway  ABC. 

2.  A,  Apple  Pie. 

3.  Nursery  Rhymes. 

4.  Childhood's      Happy 

Hours. 

5.  Nursery  Songs. 

6.  Life  of  a  Doll. 

8.  John  Gilpin. 

9.  Sing  a  Song  of  Sixpence. 

10.  The  Sea-side. 

11.  Robin's  Christmas   Eve. 

13.  Alphabet  of  Fruits. 

14.  Frisky  the  Squirrel. 

15.  Country  Pets. 

16.  Pussy's  London  Life. 

17.  Hector  the  Dog. 

18.  Dick  Whittington. 

19.  The  Fairy  at  the  Foun- 

tain (Diamonds  and  Toads). 

20.  Lily  Lily  Sweetbriar. 

21.  Uncle's  Farmyard. 

22.  London  Alphabet. 

23.  Country  Alphabet. 

24.  Alphabet  of  Games. 

25.  Household  Pets. 

26.  Hare  and  Tortoise. 

27.  Hey  Diddle-Diddle. 

28.  World-Wide  Fables. 

29.  The  Birthday  Party. 

30.  King,  Queen,  and  Knave 

of  Hearts. 

31.  Cock  Robin's  Courtship, 

Marriage,  &c. 

33.  The  Nursery  Alphabet. 

34.  Good  Children. 

35.  Bruin  the  Bear. 

36.  Dame  Trot  and  her  Cat. 

37.  Home  for  the  Holidays. 


38.  Punch  and  Judy. 

39.  My  Children. 

40.  Jack  and  Jill. 

41.  The  Faithful  Friend. 

42.  Ten  Little  Niggers. 

44.  Zoological  Gardens. 

45.  Ditto. 

46.  Ditto. 

47.  Puzzle  Alphabet. 

50.  My  Favourites. 

51.  Home  Pets. 

52.  John     Bull's     Farmyard 

Alphabet. 

53.  Tabby's  Tea-Fight. 

54.  Rover's  Dinner-Party. 

55.  London  Characters. 

56.  The  Globe  Alphabet. 

57.  Famous  Dogs. Landseer. 

58.  Noted  Dogs.         Ditto. 

59.  Famous  Horses. 

Herring. 

60.  Noted  Horses.      Ditto. 

61.  Childhood's  Playtime. 

62.  Our  Boys  and  Girls. 

63.  Alphabet  of  Animals. 

64.  New  Year's  Eve. 

65.  Kingdom  of  the  Greedy. 

66.  Little  Dame  Crump. 

67.  Childhood's  Delight. 

68.  Hush-a-bye,  Baby, 

69.  Tottie'sNurseryRhymes 

70.  Cinderella. 

71.  Red  Riding  Hood, 

72.  Old  Mother  Hubbard. 

73.  Little  Bo-Peep. 

74.  Hop  o'  my  Thumb. 


BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


i6 


FREDERICK    WARNE   &»    CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


JItmt  ymmfz  jStmimij  yitinvt  Jtot&$+ 

With  Twelve  Original  Plates  printed  in  Colours. 


i.  Joseph  and  his  Brethren. 

2.  The  Proverbs  of  Solomon. 

3.  King  David.  The  Story  of. 

4.  Wonders  of  Providence. 


5.  Parables  of  Our  Lord. 

6.  Children  of  Old  Testament. 

7.  Children ofNewTestament 

8.  Childhood  of  Christ. 


IP7M  /for^  Original  Coloured  page  Plates,  and  Descriptive  Letterpress. 

In  demy  4to,  is.  each,  picture  covers  ;  or  Mounted  on  Linen,  2s. 

1.  Droll  Pictures.  3.   Funny  Pictures. 

2.  Humorous  Pictures.  4.   Comic  Pictures. 


Packet  containing  Twenty-five  Coloured  Pictures    ...   is. 

Packet  containing  Fifty  Coloured  Pictures        3^. 

Packet  containing  One  Hundred  Coloured  Pictures...  6s. 
The  above  Packets  will  be  found  to  contain  a  varied  assortment  of  Coloured 
Pictures,  suitable  for  Scrap  Books,  or  the  Decoration  of  Screens,  &*c. 


\nxvit\  yittnv^  Jn\ih  lfltj-j>xrtrk$+ 

Printed  in  Colours  by  Kronheim,  with  full  Descriptions. 


Demy  4to,  price  is.  each,  stiff  fancy  wrappers. 


The  House  we  Live  in. 
The  Nursery  Play  Book. 
Holiday  Fun. 


The  Doll  and  her  Dresses. 
Book  of  Trades. 
The  Horse. 


Or  the  first  Four  Books  Complete  in  One  Volume,  5.5-. 
T/iese  Toy-Books,  consisting-  of  Six  Pages  of  Coloured  Illustrations,  ivith 
Key  Plates  embodying  200  figuns,  will  occupy  the  attentioti  of  Children  for 
days,  the  figures  in  the  key  plates  having  to  be  ctit  oict  and  inserted  in  their 
proper  places  in  the  illustration,  forming  an  endless  amount  of  instruction 
and  amusement. 


BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK    WARNE   c>    CO.,  PUBLISHERS,  i7 


In  demy  4to,  picture  wrappers,  is.  ;  Mounted  on  Linen,  2s. 

LEAR'S     BOOK    OF     NONSENSE 

Splendidly  printed  in  Colours  by  Dalziel  Brothers,  &c. 
Four  Distinct  Varieties,  each  Complete  in  itself. 


Harass  Ifaiirmaf  !f  «r$$r^  JHftrarg* 

In  pott  8vo,  price  is.  each,  picture  boards  ;  or  cloth  gilt,  is.  6d. 

The   Red  Riding-Hood  Volume. 

The   Cinderella  Volume. 

The   Nursery  Rhymes,  Tales,  and  Jingles  Volume. 

The  Jack  and  Jill  Volume. 

The  Royal  Alphabet  Volume. 

***  Each  Book  contains  40  Coloured  Illttstrations  and  Five  Nursery  Tales. 

JE  sop's  Fables,  with  80  Engravings,  Frontispiece  and  Vignette. 


In  pott  8vo,  price  is.  each,  picture  boards  ;  or  cloth  gilt,  is.  6d. 
Animals  Volume.  j  2.  Birds  and  AnimalsVolume. 

3.  Fish,  Insects,  and  Reptiles  Volume. 

***  Each  with  32  pages  of  Coloured  Plates  and  descriptive  Letterpress. 


nrmf$  If  aiinaaf  jlaairaij  Jfftrari|< 

In   pott   8vo,    price    is.    each,    picture   boards. 

By  the  Rev.  Hobart  Caunter,  D.D. 
Old  Testament.     80  Page  Illustrations. 
New  Testament.    48  Page  Illustrations. 


Harass  Ytttari*  luij   S*xr6$ 

Nursery  Stories,  Natural  History  Packets. 
12   Books— 96  Pages   of  Coloured   Illustrations. 
One  Shilling  Packets. 
Packet  No.  1.    Nursery  Stories.      10  varieties. 
Packet  No.  2.   Nursery  Stories.      10  varieties. 
Packet  No.  3.  Alphabets.  5  varieties. 

Packet  No.  4.   Natural  History.      12  varieties. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


Hants'*  ^HiixttJHl  |Sxnjit$> 

MARVELS    OF    CHEAP    LITERATURE. 


Sixpenny  Editions.     In  imperial  32010,  with  Two  Plates, 

stiff  wrappers,  sewed. 

Shilling  Editions.   With  8,  12  or  16  Coloured  Plates,  cloth  gilt. 

Eighteen  penny  Editions.    With  12,  16,  24,  or  32  Coloured  Plates, 

gilt  and  gilt  edges. 

Bunyan's  Pilgrim's  Progress. 

Foxe's  Book  of  Martyrs.    Revised  Edition. 

Robinson  Crusoe.    By  Daniel  Defoe. 

Buffon's  Natural  History. 

Bunyan's  Holy  War. 

Legh  Richmond's  Annals  of  the  Poor. 

Basket  of  Flowers. 

Swiss   Family  Robinson. 

Military  Enterprise. 

Naval  Enterprise. 

The  Robin  Redbreasts.    By  Mrs.  Trimmer. 

*  Uncle    Tom's    Cabin.      By  Mrs.    H.   B.   Stowe. 

Sandford   and    Merton. 

Evenings  at  Home. 

*  Not  done  at  Sixpence. 
Square  crown  8vo,  price  is.  6d. ,  cloth  gilt. 

THE    GIRLS'    HOME    BOOK; 

Or,  How  to  Play  and  How  to  Work. 

Edited  by  Mrs.  Valentine. 

A  Book  for  Young  Girls.     Fully  Illustrated. 

In  fcap.  8vo,  price  2s.  6d.,  cloth,  extra  gilt. 

GAMES     FOR     FAMILY     PARTIES. 

Selected  and  Edited  by  Mrs.  Valentine.    With  100  Illustrations. 

%*  Family  Parties  are  often  puzzled  to  know  -with  what  games  they  shall 
amuse  their  guests  and  themselves.  In  th  s  Volume  a  aoodly  selection  will  be 
found  ;  also  a  few  Out-door  Games  for  fine  frosty  weather, 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  cV  CO.,  PUBLISHERS,  19 


W\wmf*  ©as  jfflfciHiraj  ®$ri-jfoiik$+ 

In  royal  321110,  price  u.  each,  cloth  gilt,  with  Illuminated 
Frontispiece. 

Daily  Bread  on  the  Waters.     By  M.  M.  Pollard. 
Old  Testament  Precepts,  for  Every  Day  in  the  Year. 
New  Testament  Precepts,  for  Every  Day  in  the  Year. 
"  A  Name  which  is  above  every  name." 


Hants'*  Jijtm  ®$r{-j!tutfc$* 

With  Text  and  Verse  for  each  Day. 

In  demy  481110,  6d.  each,  cloth,  red  edges  ;  is.  each,  calf  limp, 
gilt  edges. 

Rills  from  the  River  of  Life. 

The  Dew  of  Hermon. 

Daily  Gleanings. 

Echoes  of  Heavenly  Music. 

The  Redeemer's  Counsel. 

The  Watchwords  of  Eternity. 

Daily  Bread.     [Large  Type.] 

The  above  are  a  very  nicely  printed  Set  of  Books,  in  a  handy  Pocket 
size,  and  neatly  bound  for  Presentation. 


%nvmh  H$^ttf  fjattttafc 

In  fcap.  8vo,  price  6d.  each,  cloth  limp. 
Ladies'  Model  Letter  Writer. 
Gentlemen's  Model  Letter  Writer. 
Business  Letter  Writer. 
Lovers'  Correspondent. 
Juvenile  Correspondent. 
Easy  Reading  for  Adult  Learners. 
Sick  Room  Attendant. 


In  fcap.  8vo,  price  u.  6d.,  cloth  gilt. 

Bowman's     Poetry    from    the    Best    Authors, 

Annipnt  anH   \Tnrlprn 


Ancient  and  Modern. 


BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


In  fcap.  8vo,  price  2s.  6d.  each,  cloth  gilt. 
Bunyan's   Pilgrim's  Progress.     Large  Type. 
Bogatzky's  Golden  Treasury.     Large  Type. 


In  imperial  32mo,  cloth,  gilt  edges,  price   ij.  6d.  ;  rims  and  clasp,  2S.  ; 
calf  limp,  or  morocco,  2s.  6d.  ;  or  imitation  ivory,  3^.  6d. 

Illuminated  Scripture    Text-Book. 

With    Interleaved    Diary    for    Memoranda,    and   365    Coloured 
Illustrations,  Coloured  Frontispiece,  &c. 


In  fcap.  8vo,  Large  Edition,  limp  cloth,  red  edges,  price  2.5.  6d.  ; 
or  bevelled  boards,  gilt  and  gilt  edges,  3s.  6d. 
Illuminated  Scripture  Text- Book. 

With  Interleaved  Diary  for  Memoranda,  and  365  Coloured  Illus- 
trations, Coloured  Frontispiece,  &c. 


In  imperial  32010,  cloth,  gilt  edges,  price  is.  6d.  ;  rims  and  clasp,  2s.; 
calf  limp,  or  morocco.  2s.  6d.  ;  or  imitation  ivory,  3^.  6d. 

The     Illustrated     Birthday     Motto  Book ;     or, 

Calendar  of  Nature.     With  Interleaved  Memoranda. 

Wedding    Chimes.      Nota  of    Marriages  of    Rela- 
tives and  Friends.     With  Interleaved  Memoranda. 
Immortelles.     A  Souvenir  of  Departed  Relatives  and 

Friends.     With  Interleaved  Memoranda. 


In  imperial  321110,  price  ij.,  cloth  gilt. 

The     Birthday     Motto-Book.      With    Interleaved 

Diary. 

Haras's  Ifaitinj  gunks. 

Elegantly  bound,  price  is.  each,  cloth,  gilt  edges. 


The  Language  of  Flowers. 
The  Ball-Room  Guide. 

Etiquette    for    Ladies    and 

Gentlemen. 
Garland  of  Wild  Roses. 


The  Lily  and  the  Rose. 

Forget-me-Not. 

Holly  and  the  Mistletoe. 

True  Lovers'  Knot. 

The  Evergreen. 


BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &•  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


mx£%  jltar  Utvm* 


In  this  Series,  from  time  to  time,  zvill  be  issued  a  very  popular  edition  of 
well-known  Books,  many  of  them  Copyright,  and  published  at  prices,  united 
with  style  and  completeness,  hitherto  unequalled. 


9- 

IO. 

II. 

12. 

13. 

30. 
37- 


ONE       SHILLIN 
Stiff  picture  wrappers  ; 
Daisy.    Eliz.  Wetherell. 
Daisy  in  the  Field.    Ditto. 
Nettie's  Mission,  a.  Gray. 
Stepping  Heavenward. 
Sceptres     and     Crowns, 
and  The  Flag  of  Truce. 

Eliz.   Wetherell. 
Dunallan.  Grace  Kennedy. 
Father  Clement.     Ditto. 
From  Jest  to  Earnest. 

Rev.  E.  P.  Roe. 
Mary  Elliot.  Cath.D.Bell. 
Sydney  Stuart.        Ditto. 
Picciola.  x.  B  Saintine. 
Hope  Campbell.  C  D.Bell. 
Horace  and  May.      Ditto. 
Ella  and   Marian.      Ditto. 
Kenneth  and  Hugh.  Ditto. 
Rosa's  Wish.  Ditto. 

Margaret  Cecil.  Ditto. 

The  Grahams.  Ditto. 

Home  Sunshine.        Ditto. 
What  Katy  Did  at  School. 

Susan  Coolidge. 
Wearyfoot  Common. 

Leitch  Ritchie. 
Sydonie's  Dowry. 
Aunt  Jane's  Hero. 
Aunt  Ailie.  Cath.  D.  Bell. 
What  Katy  Did.  Coolidge. 


O      VOLUMES, 

or  cloth  gilt,  is.  6d. 

34.  Merchant's  Daughter. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Hall. 

35.  Daily  Governess.      Ditto. 

38.  Flower  of  the  Family. 

Mrs.  E.  Prentiss. 

39.  Madame  Fontenoy. 

Author  of  "  Denise." 

41.  Toward  Heaven. 

Mrs.  E.  Prentiss. 

42.  Little  Camp  on  EagleHill 

45.  The  Prince  of  the  House 

of  David.   J.  H.  Ingraham. 

46.  The  Pillar  of  Fire.    Ditto. 

47.  Throne  of  David.      Ditto. 

48.  Admiral'sWill.  M.M.Bell. 

49.  Sylvia  and  Janet,  a.  C.  D. 
51.  That  Lass  o'  Lowrie's. 

F.  H.  Burnett. 

53.  Cloverly.    Mary  S.  Higham. 

54.  Alec  Green. 

Silas  K.  Hocking. 

55.  Sweet  Counsel.  s.Tytler. 

56.  The  Milestones  of  Life. 

57.  Little  Women. 

Louisa  M.  Alcott. 

58.  Little  Wives.       Ditto. 

59.  Barriers  Burned  Away. 

E.  P.  Roe. 

60.  Opening  a  Chestnut  Burr 

E.  P.  Roe. 

61.  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin. 


EIGHTEENPENNY      VOLUMES, 
Stiff  picture  wrappers  ;  or  cloth  gilt,  2s. 


The  Wide,  Wide  World. 

Queechy. 

Melbourne  House. 

Drayton  Hall 

Say  and  Seal. 

The  Lamplighter. 

Helen.    Maria  Edgeworth. 


43.  Ellen    Montgomery's 

Bookshelf. 

44.  The  Old  Helmet. 

50.   Straight  Paths  &  Crooked 

Ways.      By  Mrs.  Paull. 
52.  Englefield  Grange.  Ditto. 
62.   Little  Women  and  Little 
Wives. 


BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


22  FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 

WARNE'S 

H$$IJttJ  *§&&$.  fyxv  i\t  ©xmtttnj  ur  lip  l|ttm^+ 

In  fcap.  8vo,  limp  cloth  or  picture  boards,  is.  each,  fully  Illustrated. 
FOR    THE   COUNTRY. 
Common  Shells  of  the  Sea  Shore.     By  Rev.  J.  G.  Wood. 
Common  Sea  Weeds  of  the  British  Coast.     Mrs.  Clarke. 
Flowers  and  the  Flower  Garden.     By  Elizabeth  Watts. 
Vegetables  :  How  to  Grow  Them.     By  Elizabeth  Watts. 
Modern  Gymnast  (The).     By  C.  Spencer.      120  Illustrations. 
Poultry :  Their  Breeding,  Rearing,  Feeding,  and  Exhibiting. 
Angling:  A  Practical  Guide  to  Fishing,  &c.     By  J.  T.  Burgess. 
The  Orchard  and  Fruit  Garden  :  Its  Culture  and  Produce. 
A  Fern  Book  for  Everybody.     With  Coloured  Illustrations,  &c. 
English  Wild  Flowers.     By  J.  T.  Burgess. 
The  Dog :  Its  Varieties  and  Management  in  Health  and  Disease. 
The  Sheep  :        ditto  ditto  ditto. 

Cattle:  ditto  ditto  ditto. 

The  Modern  Bicycle.     By  Charles  Spencer. 
The  British  Bird-Preserver.     With  Practical  Instructions,  &c. 

By  Samuel  Wood. 
Hardy  Plants  for  Little  Front  Gardens.    By  S.  Stackhouse. 

Uniform  with  the  above,  is.  6d.  each. 

Bird- Keeping  :  A  Practical  Guide  for  the  Management  of  Cage 
Birds.     By  C.  E.  Dyson. 

Out-Door  Common  Birds  :  Their  Habits  and  General  Character- 
istics.    By  Henry  Stannard. 

The  Horse  :  Its  Varieties  and  Management  in  Health  and  Disease. 

Uniform  with  the  above,  price  6d. 
The  Pig  :  Its  Origin  and  Varieties.     By  H.  D.  Richardson. 

FOR    THE  HOME.— is.  each. 
One  Thousand  Objects  for  the  Microscope.     M.  C.  Cooke. 
Art  of  Ventriloquism.     With  amusing  Dialogues.   ByMACCABE. 
Companion  Letter  Writer  (The).  A  Guide  to  Correspondence, &c. 
The  Modern  Fencer.     By  Capt.  C.  Griffiths.     24  page  Plates. 
Ladies'  and  Gentlemen's  Modern  Letter  Writer. 
The  Money  Market :  What  it  Is,  What  it  Does,  &c.  &c. 
The  Gentleman's  Art  of  Dressing  with  Economy. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS,  23 


J)iriiutmrb$< 


In  small  crown  8vo,  price  ■zs.  6d.,  cloth  ;  half  bound,  3$.  6d.;  or  half- calf,  5s. 
THE    STANDARD    PRONOUNCING    DICTIONARY 

of  the  English  Language.  Based  on  the  labours  of  Worcester,  Webster, 
Ogilvie,  Richardson,  Craig,  Goodrich,  Johnson,  Walker,  and 
Trench.    Edited  by  P.  Austin  Nuttall,  LL.D. 

Large  demy  i8mo,  288  pp.,  price  is.,  cloth  gilt,  Illustrated. 
WALKER'S    PEARL   DICTIONARY.     Edited  throughout 
from  the  most  recent  approved  Authorities,  by  P.  A.  Nuttall,  LL.D. 

In  crown  8vo,  price  is.,  cloth  gilt,  Illustrated. 

JOHNSON'S     SHILLING     DICTIONARY  MODERN- 
IZED.    Edited  from  the  most  approved  Authorities. 


In  crown  48mo,  price  is.,  cloth  limp,  640  pp.  ;  roan,  pocket-book  style, 
with  elastic  band,  2s. 

WARNE'S  BIJOU  DICTIONARY.  Pearl  type,  with  Por- 
trait of  Dr.  Johnson.  Edited  from  the  Authorities  of  Johnson,  Walker, 
Webster,  Richardson,  Worcester,  Sheridan,  &c. 

Indemyi8mo,  cloth  boards,  price  6d.,  290  pp.,  Warne's  Popular  Edition  of 
WALKER'S      PRONOUNCING     DICTIONARY,     with 

Webster's  Definitions  and  Worcester's  Improvements. 

In  square  i6mo,  cloth  boards,  2s.  6d.  each. 
French.     Nugent's  Pronouncing.     By  Brown  and  Martin. 
French.     Nugent's.     By  L.  Smith. 
German.     Williams'  Pronouncing. 
Italian.     Graglia's  New  Pocket. 


In  demy  i8mo,  price  is.,  cloth. 

The  Model  Ready  Reckoner.     With  Interest  and  Commission 

Tables.     Also,  the  Value  of  Gold  and  Silver  Coins  of  Foreign  Countries. 
And,  price  6d.  each,  cloth. 
Warne's  Bijou  Ready  Reckoner.     Royal  32mo. 
Warne's  Large-Type  Ready  Reckoner.     Demy  i8mo. 

In  crown  8vo,  price  2s.  6d.,  cloth. 

The  Avoirdupois  Weight  Calculator  and  Ready  Reckoner. 

With  Interest  and  Discount  Tables.     By  Arthur  E.  King,  Accountant. 

In  oblong  8vo,  price  2s.,  patent  morocco. 
Hoppus's    Measurer.      Enlarged    and    Revised ;  the  Contents 
being  given  in  Feet,   Inches,  and  Twelfth-parts  of  an  Inch.     Edited   by 
Wm.  Richardson. 


BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


24  FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 

Revised  to  the  date  of  the  Berlin    Treaty,   1878. 
Fully  Coloured  and  Strongly  Bound. 


In  imperial  4to,  cloth  gilt,  price  12*.  6d. 
THE  MODERN  ATLAS  OF  THE  EARTH. 

With  complete  Alphabetical  Index  of  the  Latitudes  and  Longitudes 
of  70,000  Places  ;  64  Coloured  Maps.  By  William  Hughes, F.R.G.S. 


In  super-royal  8vo,  price  6s. ,  cloth  gilt. 
THE     COLLEGE     ATLAS. 
Containing  36  Coloured  Maps,  with  full  Descriptive  Index  of  more 
than  32,000  Places,  and  Table  of  Comparative  Heights  of  the  Principal 
Mountains.  

In  square  imperial,  price  2s.  6d.,  cloth  gilt. 
THE    JUNIOR     COLLEGE     ATLAS. 
Containing  34  Coloured  Maps.      With  full  Descriptive   Index  of 
7,000  References.     Ditto,  stiff  boards,  cloth  back,  price  is. 


In  super-royal  8vo,  price  3J.  6d.,  cloth,  gilt  edges. 
THE    JUNIOR     CLASSIC     ATLAS. 

Edited  and  Revised  by  the  Rev.  H.  Musgrave    Wilkins,  M.A. 
Eight  Maps,  Coloured  in  Outline,  with  complete  Index. 


In  square  imperial,  price  is.,  stiff  cloth  cover. 
WARNE'S     SHILLING     ATLAS. 

With  Twenty-six  Maps,  printed  in  Colours. 


In  square  imperial,  price  6d.,  sewed  wrapper;  or  limp  cloth,  is. 
WARNE'S     SIXPENNY     ATLAS, 
Containing   16   Original  Maps,  printed  in   Colours,  and  a   New 
Engraved  Map  of  Geographical  Definitions. 

Uniform,  price  6d.  each,  sewed;  or  limp  cloth,  is. 
THE  OUTLINES  TO  WARNE'S  SIXPENNY  ATLAS. 
THE  PROJECTIONS  TO  DITTO. 


In  fcap.  8vo,  price  2s.,  cloth. 
A  CLASSICAL   GEOGRAPHY. 

For  the  use  of  the  Junior  Classes  in  Schools,  in  conjunction  wit 
the  Junior  Classic  Atlas.     By  the  Rev.  H.  Musgrave  Wilkins. 

BEDFORD   STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS,  25 


A    COMPLETE  COMPENDIUM  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE. 
In  crown  8vo,  price  3^.  6d.  each,  cloth  gilt. 

Popular  Readings,  in  Prose  and  Verse.  Edited 
by  J.  E.  Carpenter.  Five  Distinct  Volumes,  each  Complete, 
paged  throughout,  with  Index.  A  General  Index  to  the  entire  work 
is  given  with  Vol.  5. 


In  fcap.  8vo,  boards,  price  is.  each,  256  pp. 

Penny  Readings,  in  Prose  and  Verse.     Twelve 

Distinct  Volumes.      Compiled  and  Edited  by  J.  E.  Carpenter, 
Twelve   Years    Public  Reader,   Lecturer,  and   Entertainer  at  the 
Principal  Literary  Institutions  in  Great  Britain. 
A  full  Prospectus  of  the  contents  can  be  had  on  application. 


In  fcap.  8vo,  price  is.,  picture  boards. 

Moseley's  Penny  Readings.  In  Prose  and  Verse. 

Embracing  many  of  the  Popular  Readings  of  Mr.  J.  M.  Bellew, 
Mrs.  Dauncey  Maskell,  &c. 


In  fcap.,  Two  distinct  Volumes,  price  is.  each. 

Tom  Hood's  Comic  Readings.       Embracing  the 

Comic  Readings  of  the  last  Hundred  Years. 


In  fcap.  8vo,  price  is.,  picture  boards. 

Choice  Readings.    Fifty-two  Stories  of  Brave  Deeds. 

Selected  and  Edited  by  the  Rev.  G.  T.  Hoare. 


In  48mo,  price  is.  6d.,  cloth  gilt ; 
or  roan,  pocket-book  style,  with  elastic  band,  2s.  6d. 

The    Bijou    Gazetteer   of  the     World.      Briefly 

describing,  as  regards  Position,  Area,  and  Population,  every 
Country  and  State,  their  Sub-divisions,  Provinces,  Counties,  Prin- 
cipal Towns,  Villages,  Mountains,  Rivers,  Lakes,  Capes,  &c.  By 
W.  R.  Rosser.     30,000  References. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


26  FREDERICK    WARNE   &   CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


COMPENDIUMS   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE. 


In  Four  Vols.,  each  Volume  Complete  in  itself,  with  Index,  crown  8vo, 
price  5-r.  each,  cloth  gilt,  with  Steel  Illustrations. 

Half-Hours  with  the  Best  Authors. 

Remodelled  by  its  Original  Editor,  Charles  Knight,  with  Selec- 
tions from  Authors  added  whose  works  have  placed  them  amongst 
the  "  Best  Authors  "  since  the  publication  of  the  First  Edition. 
***  This  book  contains  320   Extracts  of  the  best  efforts  of  our  great  Stan- 
dard Authors,  whether  they  be  Poets  or  Historians,  Essayists  or  Divines,  Tra- 
vellers or  Philosophers,  arranged  so  as  to  form  half  an  hour's  reading  for  every 
day  of  the  year.    The  student  finds  a  taste  of  every  quality,  and  a  specimen  of 
every  style.     Should  he  grow  weary  of  one  author,  he  can  turn  to  another  ;  and 
if  inclined  to  be  critical,  he  can  weigh  the  merits  of  one  writer  against  those  of 
his  fellow.     It  gives  us  a  glimpse  of  the  celebrities  assembled  within  its  portals. 
At  a  glance  the  student  can  obtain  some  idea  of  the  subject.  Such  books  are  the 
true  foundations  of  that  knowledge  which  renders  men  celebrated  and  famous. 

Ditto,  The  Library  Edition,  4  vols.,  with  a  Complete  Index, 
price  21s. ;  or  half  calf  extra,  355. 


In  Two  Vols.,  demy  8vo,  price  ioj.,  cloth  ;  12s.  with  gilt  edges  ;  or 
half-calf  extra,  17s. 

THE     PEOPLE'S     EDITION     OF 

HALF-HOUKS  WITH  THE  BEST  AUTHORS. 

Selected  and  Edited  by  Charles  Knight.      With  16  Steel  Portraits. 
In  this  Edition  the  Biographies  are  revised,  the  Pagination  of  the  Volumes 
completed,  and  the  Serial  Nature  of  the  Original  Work  entirely  done  away 
with  ;  it  now  forms  a  Handsome  Library  Book. 


In  One  Vol.,  demy  8vo,  cloth,  5^.;  with  gilt  edges,  6s. ; 
or  half-calf  extra.  8s.  6d. 

Half-Hours  of  English  History. 

Selected  and  Arranged  by  Charles  Knight. 
A  Companion   Volume  to  the  "Half-Hours  with  the  Best  Authors." 

Contains  the  Choicest  Historical  Extracts  from  upwards  of  Fifty  Standard 
Authors,  including  Burke,  Palgrave,  Guizot,  Sheridan  Knowles,  Thierry,  H. 
Taylor,  Rev.  James  White,  Charles  Knight,  G.  L.  Craik,  Landor,  Hume,  Keats, 
Hallam,  Southey,  Shakspeare,  Froissart,  Sir  Walter  Scott,  Hall,  Barante,  Lord 
Bacon,  Cavendish,  Bisho  J  Burnet,  Rev.  H.  H.  Milman,  Wordsworth,  Lord 
Macaulay  ;  with  a  General  Index. 

The  articles  are  chiefly  selected  so  as  to  afford  a  succession  of  graphic  parts  of 
English  History,  chronologically  arranged,  from  the  consideration  that  the  por- 
tions of  history  upon  which  general  readers  delight  to  dwell  are  those  which  tell 
some  story  which  is  complete  in  itself,  or  furnish  some  illustration  which  has  a 
separate  as  well  as  a  general  interest. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS,           27 

Ifniaib    Ifuxids* 

Complete  Editi 

ONS. 

)icture  wrappers. 

Large  crown  8vo,  6d.,  each,  p 

I. 

Scottish  Chiefs. 

Miss  Jane  Porter. 

2. 

Uncle  Tom's  Cabin. 

Mrs.  Stowe. 

3- 

St.  Clair  of  the  Isles. 

Elizabeth  Helme. 

4- 

Children  of  the  Abbey. 

E.  M.  Roche. 

5- 

The  Lamplighter. 

Miss  Cummins. 

6. 

Mabel  Vaughan. 

Miss  Cummins. 

7- 

Thaddeus  of  Warsaw. 

Miss  Porter. 

8 

The  Howards  of  Glen  Luna 

Miss  Warner. 

9- 

The  Old  English  Baron,  and  The  Castle  of  Otranto. 

10. 

The  Hungarian  Brothers. 

Miss  Porter, 

11. 

Marriage. 

Miss  Ferrier. 

12. 

The  Inheritance. 

Miss  Ferrier. 

13- 

Destiny. 

Miss  Ferrier. 

14. 

The  King's  Own. 

Captain  Marryat. 

15- 

The  Naval  Officer. 

Captain  Marryat. 

16. 

Newton  Forster. 

Captain  Marryat. 

17- 

Richelieu. 

G.  P.  R.  James. 

18. 

Darnley. 

G.  P.  R.James. 

19- 

Philip  Augustus. 

G.  P.  R.  James. 

20. 

Tom  Cringle's  Log. 

Michael  Scott. 

21. 

Peter  Simple. 

Captain  Marryat. 

22. 

Mary  of  Burgundy. 

G.  P.  R.  James. 

23- 

Jacob  Faithful. 

Captain  Marryat. 

24. 

The  Gipsy. 

G.  P.  R.  James. 

25. 

Cruise  of  the  Midge. 

M.  Scott. 

26. 

Two  Years  Before  the  Mast. 

R.  H.  Dana. 

27. 

The  Pirate  and  the  Three  Cutters.    Capt.  Marryat. 

28. 

Henry  Masterton. 

G.  P.  R.  James. 

29. 

John  Marston  Hall. 

G.  P.  R.  Tames. 

3°- 

Japhet  in  Search  of  a  Father.  Captain  Marryat. 

31- 

The  Wolf  of  Badenoch. 

T.  D.  Lander. 

32- 

Caleb  Williams. 

William  Godwin. 

33- 

The  Pacha  of  Many  Tales. 

Captain  Marryat. 

34- 

The  Vicar  of  Wakefield. 

Oliver  Goldsmith. 

35- 

Mr.  Midshipman  Easy. 

Captain  Marryat. 

36. 

Attila. 

G.  P.  R.  James. 

37- 

Rory  O'More. 

Samuel  Lover. 

BEDFORD   STREET, 

STRAND. 

2  3 


FREDERICK    WARNE   fr>   CO.,   PUBLISHERS, 


THE   POPULAR   COOKERY  BOOK. 


In  large  crown  8vo,  price  5J.,  half-bound,  750  pages. 

WARNE'S    MODEL   COOKERY 

Containing  Complete  Instructions  in  Household  Management, 
AND     RECEIPTS     FOR 


Breakfast  Dishes. 

Bread,  Biscuits,  &c. 

Fish  and  Soup. 

Sauces  and  Gravies. 

Beef,  Mutton. 

Lamb,  Venison. 

Veal,  Pork. 

Poultry  and  Game. 

Made  Dishes,  and  Entrees. 

Meat  and  Fish  Pies,  &c. 

Vegetables. 

Potting  and  Collaring. 


Pastry  and  Puddings. 

Creams  and  Jellies. 

Custards,  Ices,  and  Cakes. 

Preserves  and  Pickles. 

Souffles  and  Omelets. 

Wines,  Drinks,  and  Ale. 

Desserts. 

Butter  and  Cheese. 

Relishes. 

Cookery  for  the  Sick. 

Bills  of  Fake. 

Duties  of  Servants. 


Compiled  and  Edited  by  MARY  JEWRY. 

With  3,000  Receipts,  numerous  Woodcuts,  and  12  pages  of  Origi- 
nal Illustrations,  printed  in  Colours  by  Kronheim,  embodying  nearly 
Two  Hundred  distinct  Subjects. 

A  COMPANION  VOLUME  TO  WARNE'S  MODEL  COOKERY  BOOK. 


In  large  crown  8vo,  price  5^.,  half-bound,  570  pages. 

THE  MODERN  HOUSEHOLDER. 

A   Manual  of  Domestic  Economy 

in  all  its  branches. 

COMPILED   AND    EDITED    BY    ROSS    MURRAY; 

Assisted  by  a  Committee  of  Ladies. 

The  Medical  Portion  by  a  Me7?iber  of  the  Royal  College  of  Surgeons. 

With  16  pages  of  Original  Illustrations,  printed  in  Colours  by 

Kronheim,  and  numerous  Woodcuts. 

A  Superior  Edition  of  each  of the  above,  price  js.  6d. 


BEDFORD   STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS,  29 


In  crown  8vo,  price  2s.  6d.,  cloth  gilt. 

Warne's  Every  Day  Cookery  Book. 

With  nearly  2,000  Receipts,  and  Coloured  Illustrations  by  Kron- 
heim. 

Warne's  Every  Day  Cookery  Book. 

Also  a  3s.  6d.  Edition  of  each  of  the  above,  with  Additional 
Coloured  Illustrations,  half-bound,  gilt  lettering. 


In  large  crown  8vo,  price  is.,  cloth  boards  ;  or  half-bound,  is.  6d. 

Warne's    Model    Cookery   and    Housekeeping 

Book.     800  Receipts,  and  Coloured  Illustrations  of  Fifty  Dishes. 
In  square  i6mo,  price  2d.,  cloth  cover,  64  pp.;  sewed,  id. 

Warne's  Cookery  Book  for  the  Million. 

With  upwards  of  200  Useful  and  Practical  Receipts. 
In  royal  48010,  price  is.,  cloth,  gilt  edges. 

My   Market   Table.      Showing    the    Value    of   any 

Article,  at  per  Pound  and  Ounce,  from  Sixpence  to  Eighteenpence. 

Invaluable  to  all  Housekeepers  who  appreciate  economical  expenditure. 


In  crown  8vo,  price  2s.  6d.,  cloth  gilt. 

The  Young  Woman's  Book  : 

A  Gathering  of  Useful  Information  in  Household  Matters,  Taste, 
Duties,  Study,  &c,  &c.     With  Practical  Illustrations. 

In  large  crown  8vo,  price  2s.  6d.,  cloth  gilt. 

Best  of  Everything. 

By  the  Author  of  "  Enquire  Within."  Containing  1,800  Useful 
Articles  on  how  to  obtain  "The  Best  of  Everything,"  with  a 
Special  Calendar  for  the  Cook  and  Gardener  for  each  Month. 


In  large  crown  8vo,  price  2s.  6d.,  cloth  gilt. 

Home   Doctoring  : 

A  Guide   to   DDmestic  Medicine  and  Surgery.     By  a  Member  of 
the  Royal  College  of  Surgeons  (England).  With  Coloured  Plates. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


3° 


FREDERICK  WARNE  &  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


Stp  ©tjantms  ©teste* 

A  Series  of  Standard  Works  in  Poetry,  Biography,  &c. 

In  large  crown  8vo,  price  ts.  6d.  each,  stiff  wrapper ;  or  cloth  gilt,  2s. 

England.  (Romance  of  History.) 
By  Henry  Neale.  Illustrations 
by  T.  Landseer. 

France.  (Romance  of  History.)  By 
Leitch  Ritchie.    Illusts  by  ditto. 

Italy.  (Romance  of  History.)  By 
C.  Macfarlane.    Illusts.  by  ditto. 

Spain.  (Romance  of  History.)  By 
Don  T.  de  Trueba.  Illustrations  by 
J.  K.  Meadows. 

India.  (Romance  of  History.)  By 
Rev.  Hobart  Caunter,  B.D. 

German  Literature,  as  exemplified 
by  the  Works  of  Tieck,  Richter, 
and  Zschokke. 

Don  Quixote,  The  Life  and  Adven- 
tures of.     By  Cervantes. 

Eastern   Tales. 

Dodd's  Beauties  of  Shakspere. 

Book  of  Authors. 

The  Talmud.     By  H.  Polano. 

Virgil  (Dryden's)  The  Works  of. 

Clare's  Remains. 

Pope's  Poetical  Works. 

Mackay's  Complete  Works. 

Goldsmith's  Poems,  &c. 

Sale's  Koran.     (Complete.) 

Oxenford's  French  Songs. 

Gil  Bias,  The  Adventures  of. 

Romance  of  London-  Historic.  By 
John  Timbs. 

Romance  of  London  —  Super- 
natural.    By  John  Timbs. 

A  Century  of  Anecdote.     Ditto. 

Walton  and  Cotton's  Angler. 

Herbert's  (George)  Works. 

Heber's(Bishop)  Poetical  Works. 

Half-Hours  with  theBestAuthors 
Ditto 

Ditto  *** 

Ditto  **** 

Bunyan's  Pilgrim's  Progress. 

Fugitive  Poetry.  1600-1878.  Edited 
by  J.  C.  Hutchieson. 

Pepys'  Diary. 

Evelyn's  Diary. 

Townsend's  Modern  Literature .* 
Ditto  Ditto  ** 

Montgomery  (James). 

Spenser's   Faery  Queen,    [borne. 

White's  Natural  History  of  Sel- 

Keble's  Christian  Year. 

Lamb's  Poems  and  Essays. 


Shakspeare,  Complete.  Including 
Life,  Glossary,  &c. 

Longfellow's  Poetical  Works. 
Including  Original  Poems. 

Byron's  Poetical  Works.  With 
Explanatory  Notes. 

Scott's  Poetical  Works.     Notes. 

Arabian  Nights  (The)  Entertain- 
ments.    New  Edition. 

Eliza  Cook's  Poems.     Complete. 

Legendary  Ballads  of  England 
and  Scotland. 

Burns'  Poetical  Works.  With 
Memoir,  &c. 

Johnson's  Lives  of  the  Poets. 

Dante  :  Vision.    Trans,  by  Cary. 

Moore's  Poetical  Works.  With 
Explanatory  Notes,  &c. 

Dr.  Syntax's  Three  Tours.  With 
Coloured  Portrait. 

Butler's  Hudibras.  With  Notes  by 
Zachary  Grey. 

Cowper's  Poetical  Works.  Com- 
plete Edition. 

Milton's  Poetical  Works. 

Wordsworth's  Poetical  Works. 

Twice-told  Tales.  By  Nathaniel 
Hawthorne. 

Hallam's  Constitutional  History 
of  England. 

History  of  the  Saracens.  By 
Gibbon  and  Ockley. 

Robinson  Crusoe.  Unabridged. 
Woodcuts  by  Griset. 

Swiss  Family  Robinson.  Includ- 
ing Sequel.     With  Illustrations. 

Mrs.  Hemans'  Poetical  Works. 
With  Memoir,  &c. 

Grimm's  Fairy  Tales. 

Andersen's  (Hans)  Fairy  Tales. 

Scott's  Lives  of  Eminent  Novel- 
ists and  Dramatists. 

Scott's  Essays  on  Chivalry,  Ro- 
mance, and  the  Drama. 

Shelley's  Poetical  Works. 

Campbell's  Poetical  Works. 

Keats'  Poetical  Works. 

Coleridge's  Poetical  Works. 

Pope's  Iliad.  With  Flaxman's 
Illustrations. 

Pope's  Odyssey.     Ditto. 

Hood's  Poetical  Works. 

Representative  Actors. 


BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


FREDERICK    WARNE   6*   CO.,  PUBLISHERS,  31 


In  demy  8vo,  price  js.  6d. ,  cloth  gilt. 
The    Horticulturist  ;    or,  The  Culture  and  Manage- 
ment of  the  Kitchen,  Fruit,  and  Forcing  Garden.     With  numerous 
Engravings  by  J.  C.  Loudon.  Revised  by  W.  Robinson,  F.L.S. 

In  small  crown  8vo,  price  35.  6d.  each,  cloth  gilt. 

Loudon's  Amateur  Gardener's  Calendar.    Being 

a  Monthly  Guide  as  to  what  should  be  Avoided,  as  well  as  what 
should  be  Done  in  a  Garden  in  Each  Month,  with  Illustrations 
Revised  by  W.  Robinson,  F.L.S. 
Ditto,  picture  boards,  2s. 

English  Wild  Flowers.     By  J.  T.  Burgess.     Fine 

Edition.     With  numerous  Illustrations  and  Coloured  Plates. 
Also,  Popular  Edition,  in  fcap.  8vo,  price  u..  picture  boards, 
with  Plain  Illustrations. 

Villa    Gardening.        By    William     Paul,     F.L.S., 

F.R.H.S.,  &c,  Author  of  the  "Rose  Garden."    Third  Edition, 
entirely  revised  and  re-edited,  with  Practical  Illustrations. 
Ditto,  picture  boards,  2s. 


In  crown  8vo,  price  3s.  6d.,  cloth  gilt ;  or  picture  boards,  zs. 

Modern  Practical  Gardening:  Combining  Vegeta- 
bles, Flowers,  Fruit,  their  Culture  and  Produce.  By  Eliza- 
beth Watts.     With  Practical  Plates  and  Coloured  Illustrations. 

In  medium  8vo,  price  ^3  15^.,  cloth  gilt  and  gilt  edges. 

The  Flowering  Plants,  Grasses,  and  Ferns  of 

Great  Britain.     By  Anne  Pratt.     Fine  Edition,  in  Six  Volumes. 
Containing  upwards  of  Three  Hundred  Coloured  Plates. 

In  medium  8vo,  price  12s.  6d.,  cloth  gilt  and  gilt  edges. 

The   Ferns  of  Great   Britain,  and  their  Allies, 

the  Club-Mosses,  Pepperworts,  and  Horsetails.    By  Anne  Pratt 
Containing  41  Coloured  Plates. 


Loudon's  Encyclopaedia  of  Cottage,  Farm,  and 

Villa  Architecture  and  Furniture.  Containing  numerous  Designs 
for  Dwellings,  from  the  Villa  to  the  Cottage  and  the  Farm,  including 
Farm-houses,  Farmeries,  and  other  Agricultural  Buildings,  &c.  &c. 
Illustrated  by  upwards  of  Two  Thousand  Engravings. 


BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 


32  FREDERICK    WARNE   &   CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 


A  KEW  WORK  OK  B IR  D-KEEPING.    By  th*  A  uthor  of  -Domestic  Pets. 


In  crown  8vo,  2s-  §d.,  cloth  gilt. 

BI  RD-KEEPI  N  G: 

A  Practical  Guide  for  the  Management  of  Singing  Cage  Birds. 

By  C.  E.   DYSON. 

With  Coloured  Plates  and  Woodcut  Illustrations. 

A  Cheap  Edition,  picture  boards,  is.  6d. 

In  square  crown  8vo,  price  is.  6d.,  cloth  gilt. 

OUT-DOOR   COMMON    BIRDS: 

Their  Habits  and  General  Characteristics. 

Describing  nearly  Sixty  of  our  most  Common  Birds  ;  a  Picture  of  the 

Eggs  of  each  Species  being  also  given. 

By     HENRY    STANNARD. 

With  upwards  of  One  Hundred  Original  Illustrations. 

"The  habits,  appearance,  and  peculiarities  of  the  birds  are  graphically  and 
minutely  described." — Graphic. 

A  Cheap  Edition,  picture  boards,  u.  6d. 
A      VALUABLE       WORK       OF      REFERENCE. 


In  large  crown  8vo,  price  js.  6d.,  half-bound,  750  pp. 
A     MANUAL     OF 

DOMESTIC  MEDICINE  &  SURGERY 

A  Completely  New  Edition. 
By    J.     H.    WALSH,    F.  R.  C.  S. 
Illustrated  by    Forty-four   Page   Engravings,   Sixteen   printed    in 
Colours,  of   the  Skin   Diseases  ;   and  Additional   Coloured   Plates  of 
Poisonous  Plants. 

General  Heads  of  the  Contents  of  this  Work  : — 

General  Laws  which  Regulate  Health  and  Disease. 

The  Elementary  Forms  of  Disease—  Their  Causes  and  Symptoms. 

The  Methods  Employed  in  the  Removal  of  Disease. 

Therapeutics. 

The  Practical  Applications  of  the  Principles  of  the  Healing  Art. 

The  Management  of  Children  in  Health  and  Disease. 

Domestic  Practice  of  Medicine  and  Surgery  in  the  Adult. 

Glossary  and  Index. 

BEDFORD  STREET,  STRAND. 

J.    OGDEN    AND    CO.,    PRINTERS,    172,    ST.    JOHN    STREET,    E.C. 


X. 


AMUSEMENT    FOR    ALL. 

ASSER    &    SHERWIN'S 
GUINEA    CABINET    OF    GAMES. 


Backgammon, 

Chess, 

Draughts, 

Solitaire, 

German  Tactics, 

Snails, 

Go  Bang, 


Whist, 
Cribbage, 
Bezique, 
Dominoes, 
Fox  and  Geese, 
Spoil  Five,  and 
The  Race. 


The  whole,  Complete,  with  Rules,  arranged 

in  Polished  Mahogany  Case,  suitable  for  a 

CHRISTMAS, WEDDING,  or  BIRTHDAY 

Present. 

Packed  for  the  Country  on  receipt  of  a 
P.O.  Order  for  22s. 

The   New  Illustrated  Catalogue  of  Games  and   Presents 
(200  Illustrations;  post  free. 

The  Largest  Stock  of  Novelties  for  Presents  at  the  Lowest  Cash  Prices. 
ASSEB  &  SHERWIN,  80  &  "81^  Strand,  London, 
DR.  c/.  COLLIS  BROWNE'S  CHLORODYNE 

IS  THE   ORXGZSTAX,   AND    ONLY   GENUINE, 


ADVICE  TO  INVALIDS.— If  you  wish  to  obtain  quiet  refreshing  sleep,  free 
from  headache,  relief  from  pain  and  anguish,  to  calm  and  assuage  the  weary 
achings  of  protracted  disease,  invigorate  the  nervoas  media,  and  regulate  the 
circulating  systems  of  the  bo  ly,  you  will  provide  yourselves  with  that  marvellous 
remedy  discovered  by  Dr.  J.  COLLIS  BROWNE,  Member  of  the  College  of 
Physicians,  London,  to  which  he  gave  the  name  of  CKLOROOYNE,  and 
which  is  admitted  by  tfye  Profession  to  be  the  most  wonderful  and  valuable  remedy 
ever  discovered. 

CHLOROCYNE  is  the  best  Remedy  known  for  Coughs,  Consumption,  Bron- 
chitis, Asthma,  Neuralgia. 
CHURODYNB  acts  like  a  charm  in  Diarrhoea,  and  is  the  only  Specific  in  Cholera 

and  Dysentery. 
CHLORODYNE  effectually  cuts  short  all  attacks  of  Epilepsy,  Hysteria,  Palpi- 
tation, and  spasms, 

J.  C.  Bakeb,  Esq.,  M.D.    Bideford. — "It  is,  without  doubt,  the  most  valuable  and  certain 
Anodyne  we  have." 

Dr.  M'Millman,  of  New  Galloway.Scotland.— "I  consider  it  the  most  valuable  medicine  known." 

[ffk.  Vt  4fe  EM  tniip     Caution.— Vice-Chancellor  Sir  W.  Page  Wood  stated  that 
■  H  I  II 1        -D'--  *J-   COI.I.IS    Bhow.ve   was,  undoubtedly,  the   inventor   of 

■  fit         CHLORODYNE;  and  the  story  of  the   defendant  Freeman 
llfl  was  deliberately  untrue,  which,  he  regretted  to  say,  had  been 

I  H|        sworn  to.     See  Times,  13th  July,  1864. 


Sold  in  Bottles  at  Is.  \\d.,  is.  9d.,  and  4s.  6d.  each. 

None  is  genuine  without  the  words  "  Dr.  J.  Collis  Browne'f 
Chlorodyne"  on  the  Government  Stamp.  Overwhelming 
Medical  testimony  accompanies  each  bottle, 

CAU I  ION.— Beware  of  piracy  and  imitation. 

Sole  Manufacturer-].  T.  DAVENPORT,  23,  Great  Russell  St.,  Bloomsbury,  London. 


-    — ■■■  ■  («*■ 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  05987  780  1 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


(Mar.,  1890.  20,000) 


BOSTON    PUBLIC   LIBRARY. 


One  volume  allowed  at  a  time^and  obtained  only  by 
card  ;  to  be  kept  14  days  (or  sev^  days  in  the  case  of  fiction 
and  juvenile  books  publi^ewvitTiin  one  vear)  without  fine  ; 
not  to  be  renewed;  to_^5  reclaimed  by  messenger  after  21 
days,  who  will  coJleJRb  cents  besides  fine  of  2  cents  a  day, 
including-  Sundries  and  holidays ;  not  to  be  lent  out  of  the 
borrower's  tffcusehold,  and  not  to  be  transferred ;  to  be  re- 
turned at  this  Hall. 

Borrowers  finding  this  book  mutilated  or  unwarrantably 
defaced,  are  expected  to  report  it;  and  also  any  undue  delay 
in  the  delivery  of  books. 

VNo   claim  can  be  established  because  of  the  failure  of 
any  notice,  to  or  from  the  Library,  through  the  mail. 


The  record  below  must  not  be  made  or  altered  by  borrower, 


/■Vw'  FT. 


i  v,  '. 


*'. 


$ .  * 


A 


•*# 


& '    **■ 


>*.* 


^t 


