I 


{ 


CINCINNATI 
THE  PROCTER  X  GAMBLE  CO. 


FOREWORD 


SAVE  Wheat,  Save  Meat,  Save  Fat,  Save  Sugar.  This 
call  for  conservation  that  comes  from  the  United 
States  Food  Administration  has  been  repeated  time  and 
again.  To  save  food  is  a  national  necessity  emphasized 
in  every  official  bulletin  of  that  department  of  our 
Government.  Saving,  Sacrifice,  and  Service  are  recog- 
nized as  the  three  graces  of  Patriotism,  the  necessary 
essentials  in  the  life  of  to-day. 

War  Time  Recipes  is  a  valuable  book  of  tested  foods 
that  fully  measure  up  to  the  standards  of  conservation. 
It  is  dedicated  to  the  American  housewife  as  an  aid  in 
the  preparation  of  hundreds  of  economical,  appetizing 
foods  that  will  enable  her  to  save  without  in  the  least 
sacrificing  either  tastefulness  or  variety  in  her  meals. 

Government  suggestions  are  carried  out.  No  butter 
is  required  in  any  recipe.  Crisco  is  the  vegetable  cook- 
ing fat  used  instead.  Directions,  easy  to  understand, 
show  how  Crisco  successfully  blends  with  all  the  cereal 
flours  which  must  be  used  in  place  of  wheat.  This 
book  will  prove  a  real  service  to  the  patriotic  woman 
anxious  to  do  her  part  in  winning  the  war. 


Copyright,  191S,  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.,  Cincinnati,  0. 

©CI.A505139 

sep  z?  im 


Qjtf       oib  iDiiiasiajtDiDtniDooitnaDiiDoiistDffl  sm  id  mi  be  1  g    JJcV  \    1  / Jy1^  bid  aoaatuDGJinniDtaQfliffiiii  c  2  2  o  c  q  e  00  c  0 

AT  the  present  time  the  patriotic  woman,  in  planning  her  food 
l  supply  for  the  week,  keeps  in  mind  the  needs  of  the  soldiers 
at  the  front.  Certain  foods,  as  fish,  oysters,  and  sea-foods  of  all 
kinds,  poultry  and  game,  vegetables  and  fruits  (fresh  and  dried), 
milk,  cheese,  and  eggs  are  not  easily  transported.  Of  these  she 
buys  as  freely  as  the  occasion  demands  and  her  circumstances 
permit. 

She  uses  no  butter  for  cooking  purposes,  but  in  its  place  makes 
use  of  a  vegetable  fat,  such  as  Crisco,  and  she  also  uses  the  drip- 
pings of  such  meats  as  are  avadable. 

Roasts  and  steaks  being  largely  eliminated  from  the  bill  of 
fare,  a  way  of  giving  variety  and  adding  crispness  to  an  otherwise 
soft  and  bland  assortment  of  dishes  might  occasionally  be  intro- 
duced by  food  fried  in  deep  fat.  This  method  of  cooking,  con- 
ducted with  care,  should  not  result  in  the  use  of  an  undue  quan- 
tity of  fat.  With  properly  prepared  food  and  Crisco  at  the 
right  temperature,  no  appreciable  quantity  of  fat  is  absorbed 
by  the  food;  also,  if  the  Crisco  be  not  overheated  and  be  strained 
after  use  to  free  it  from  flour,  crumbs  or  other  foreign  matter 
introduced  with  the  food,  it  may  be  used  over  and  over  again. 

In  deep  frying,  do  not  wait  for  Crisco  to  smoke.  Heat  Crisco 
until  a  crumb  of  bread  becomes  a  golden  brown  in  60  seconds,  for 
raw  dough  mixtures,  as  crullers,  fritters,  etc.;  40  seconds,  for 
cooked  mixtures,  as  croquettes,  codfish  balls,  etc.;  20  seconds,  for 
French  fried  potatoes.  Seconds  may  be  counted  thus:  one 
hundred  and  one,  one  hundred  and  two,  etc. 

The  fat  may  be  tested  also  by  dropping  into  it  a  little  piece 
of  the  article  to  be  cooked.  When  it  rises  to  the  top,  bubbles 
vigorously  and  browns  quickly,  the  fat  is  hot  enough.  When 
fried  foods  absorb  Crisco,  it  is  because  Crisco  is  not  hot  enough,  or 
because  you  have  not  used  enough  Crisco.  Use  plenty,  and  the 
raw  foods,  if  added  in  small  quantities,  will  not  reduce  the  heat 
of  the  fat.  The  absorption  in  deep  Crisco  frying  should  be  less 
than  that  of  another  fat. 

In  large  measure,  the  patriotic  housekeeper  cuts  down  her 
use  of  wheat  flour;  she  has  learned  by  experience  that  bread 
with  good  keeping  qualities,  bread    that   can   be   used  under 

3 


adverse  circumstances  and  conditions  that  exist  in  unstable 
periods  of  life  must  contain  a  goodly  portion  of  wheat  flour;  thus 
she  is  not  only  willing  but  anxious  to  share  her  wheat  with  her 
neighbors  across  the  sea.  To  do  this  and  at  the  same  time  do 
her  duty  by  her  own  family,  she  needs  to  make  something  of  a 
study  of  wheat  substitutes. 

THE  USE  OF  WHEAT  SUBSTITUTES 

Wheat,  on  account  of  the  large  proportion  of  gluten  it  con- 
tains, makes  the  ideal  flour  for  yeast  bread.  One  of  the  proper- 
ties of  gluten  is  its  tendency  to  stretch  and  expand,  and  this 
expanded  gluten  makes  the  framework  of  the  loaf  of  bread.  Heat 
hardens  the  framework  and  we  have  a  light  loaf  of  bread.  Rye 
flour  also  contains  gluten  in  a  proportion  to  produce  a  good  loaf 
of  bread,  but  barley,  rice,  corn  and  oats  do  not  contain  gluten 
in  sufficient  quantity  to  make  good  bread,  when  used  alone.  They 
are  rich  in  other  valuable  properties  and  when  combined  with 
wheat  or  rye,  especially  with  wheat,  produce  most  excellent  yeast 
bread.  Such  bread  should  be  mixed  a  little  stiffer  than  the  all- 
wheat  loaf  and  should  be  set  to  bake  before  it  is  quite  as  light. 

PROPORTION  OF  WHEAT  SUBSTITUTES  IN  YEAST  BREAD 

The  U.  S.  Food  Administration  allows  the  name  of  "Victory 
Bread"  to  be  applied  to  any  bread  containing  twenty  per  cent  or 
more  of  wheat  substitute.  In  bread  made  at  home,  corn  flour  or 
rice  flour  may  form  one-third  of  the  bulk  of  flour  used;  possibly 
a  little  higher  percentage  of  oat  flour  made  from  rolled  oats  may 
produce  a  satisfactory  loaf.  Twenty-five  per  cent  substitution  of 
any  variety  of  flour  will  yield  appetizing  bread.  When  one  wishes 
to  cut  out  still  further  the  use  of  wheat  and  rye  flours  the  quick 
breads  are  preferable. 

PROPORTION  OF  WHEAT  SUBSTITUTES  IN  QUICK 

BREAD 

In  breads  made  with  baking  powder  or  similar  leavening  agents, 
especially  eggs,  the  white  of  which  possesses  great  elasticity, 
the  proportion  of  the  substitutes  employed  may  be  materially 
increased.  Many  of  these  breads  may  be  made  successfully 
without  any  wheat  flour,  though  even  a  little  wheat  gives  a 
better  result.  Baking  powder  biscuit  and  crust  for  shortcakes 
are  perfectly  satisfactory  when  made  with  one-third  rice  flour 

4 


and  two-thirds  barley  flour.  Muffins  are  at  their  best  when  made 
with  one  cupful  of  meal  and  one  cupful  of  flour.  The  flour  may  be 
buckwheat,  oat,  barley,  corn,  or  rye;  the  meal,  corn,  rye,  oat, 
barley,  or  graham. 

COMPARISON  OF  THICKENING  PROPERTIES  OF  WHEAT 
FLOUR  AND  SUBSTITUTES 

Barley,  rye,  oat,  and  wheat  flours,  cupful  for  cupful,  have 
about  the  same  thickening  property;  use  one  cupful  of  these  flours 
for  one  cupful  of  wheat  flour.  If  using  corn,  rice,  or  potato  flour, 
take  half  a  cupful  in  place  of  one  cupful  of  wheat  flour. 

VICTORY  CAKES,  PIES,  AND  SWEET  YEAST  MIXTURES 

The  U.  S.  Food  Administration  also  authorizes  the  use  of  the 
term  "Victory"  to  cakes,  pies,  and  all  other  desserts  in  which 
one-third  of  the  flour  contents  is  a  wheat  flour  substitute.  Pastry, 
sponge  cake,  and  cookies  may  be  made  without  any  wheat  flour. 
Cup  cakes  (cakes  with  shortening)  may  be  made  without  wheat, 
but,  when  convenient,  half  wheat  and  half  substitute  is  prefer- 
able. In  cakes  calling  for  three  cupfuls  of  wheat  flour,  one  cup- 
ful of  the  flour  may  be  replaced  by  half  a  cupful  of  rice  flour, 
thus  effecting  a  33  1-3  per  cent  substitution. 

SUGAR 

In  nearly  all  mixtures  calling  for  a  cupful  of  sugar,  just  as  satis- 
factory results  may  be  had  with  two  tablespoonfuls  less.  In  making 
boiled  frosting,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar  to  one  egg  white 
is  ample,  though  in  most  recipes  a  whole  cupful  is  called  for.  Half 
a  cupful  of  honey  may  replace  the  sugar  used  with  one  white  of 
egg.  In  cakes  or  other  dessert  dishes  in  which  raisins,  figs,  or  dates 
are  enumerated  in  the  list  of  ingredients,  the  quantity  of  sugar 
may  be  lessened  without  detriment  to  the  finished  product. 

Sugar  is  useful  in  quick  breads  in  which  substitute  flour  abounds, 
as  it  is  an  aid  to  lightness,  but  when  feasible  it  should  be  cut 
out;  bread  for  general  and  constant  use  should  be  unsweetened. 
The  tablespoonful  of  sugar  added  for  each  loaf  of  yeast  bread 
makes  no  appreciable  improvement  in  the  bread,  and,  when 
sugar  is  being  bought  by  the  single  pound,  should  be  omitted. 

FATS 

The  necessity  of  fat  in  the  dietary  has  been  brought  home  to 

5 


us  in  these  war  times  as  never  before.  Perfect  nutrition  is  not 
possible  without  fat  in  some  form,  and  it  is  our  main  source  of 
energy. 

In  the  midst  of  a  world-wide  war  and  its  attendant  horrors, 
no  country,  however  rich  and  fair,  can  produce  butter  fat  in 
sufficient  quantity  to  provide  for  the  growth  of  young  children 
and  maintain  the  stamina  of  men  in  camps  and  trenches.  Accord- 
ingly, we  are  glad  to  restrict  butter  to  its  legitimate  use  as  a  luxury 
of  the  table;  but  where,  with  the  restrictions,  now  regarded  and 
acknowledged  by  us  all  as  necessary,  in  the  use  of  meat  products, 
are  we  to  secure  the  fat  so  essential  in  the  various  processes  of 
cooking? 

The  CJ.  S.  Food  Administration  wisely  says:  "Use  vegetable 
oils,  as  olive  and  cottonseed  oil."  However,  we  must  use  these 
products  with  economy  for  they  also  are  needed  over  the  sea. 
When  we  come  to  look  into  the  matter,  the  use  of  vegetable  oils 
is  no  hardship;  many  a  good  housekeeper  has  long  been  using  them 
in  preference  to  fats  from  the  animal  kingdom.  Vegetable  fats 
are  less  liable  to  carry  the  germs  of  disease  than  are  those  of  animal 
origin.  Also  the  melting  point  of  most  animal  fats  is  high,  while 
that  of  fats  of  vegetable  source,  as  Crisco,  a  pure  vegetable  oil, 
is  low.  It  corresponds  very  nearly  to  that  of  the  temperature  of 
the  human  body.  Fats  with  low  melting  point  are  more  completely 
digested  and  assimilated  than  are  those  of  high  melting  point. 
Thus,  carefully  refined  vegetable  oils  are  well  adapted  to  supply 
the  fat  so  necessary  to  our  well-being.  Crisco  is  a  strictly  pure 
and  wholesome  vegetable  oil  product.  As  a  food  product  and  dis- 
tinctive agent  in  cookery,  it  is  now  well  past  the  experimental  stage 
and  can  be  employed  with  complete  satisfaction. 

THINGS  TO  REMEMBER  IN  CONNECTION  WITH  THE  RECIPES 

When  using,  in  place  of  butter,  add  salt,  in  the  proportion  of  one  level  teaspoonful 
to  one  cupful  of  Crisco. 

When  there  is  smoke  in  the  kitchen,  Crisco  has  burned  or  heated  too  high  for  fry- 
ing, or  some  may  have  been  on  the  outside  of  the  pan  or  kettle. 

When  using  Crisco  in  your  regular  recipes  remember  that  as  it  contains  no 
moisture  it  is  much  richer  than  butter  and,  therefore,  one-fourth  less  should  be  used. 

In  making  sauces,  thoroughly  blend  the  flour  and  Crisco  before  adding  the  milk. 
In  using  melted  Crisco  in  boiled  dressing,  croquettes,  rolls,  fritters,  etc.,  be  sure 
that  the  melted  Crisco  is  cooled  sufficiently  so  that  the  hot  fat  will  not  injure  the 
texture  of  the  foods. 

Crisco,  like  butter,  is  susceptible  to  heat  and  cold.  When  too  hard,  simply  put 
in  a  warm  place. 


6 


CRISCCTIWl^WMrRECIPES 

'majmmmmainja.tiimtDrDiitaicD  m  m  (D  m  (D  rr  m  .c  45*5-       "  j0/?m^f«iitL    ^s%<&  ^  n»  urnraLoiingra)  at  BLiafBn.-iirBnin.ain:  m  a  q  a  < 


"Use  no  butter  in  cooking.     Use  only  vegetable  fats.'*'* 

TO  millions  of  American  housewives  who  for  many  years  have 
known  and  appreciated  Crisco  as  the  Universal  Cooking  Fat, 
this  official  message  of  the  United  States  Food  Administration 
was  accepted  as  a  belated  confirmation  of  their  own  judgment. 
To  millions  of  others  who  have  believed  that  butter  in  cooking 
was  necessary  to  success,  the  warning  was  like  a  shot  at  ancient 
culinary  traditions. 

You  save  without  sacrifice  by  using  Crisco.  On  the  contrary,  its 
use  as  a  cooking  fat  means  added  advantages  that  please  the  whole 
family. 

All  war-time  recipes  are  made  rich  by  the  use  of  Crisco.  Its 
delicacy  improves  all  these  additions  to  your  menus.  Crisco  is 
easily  worked  with  barley,  graham,  rice,  corn,  and  the  other  flours 
that  must  be  used  to  save  wheat. 

Crisco  is  a  wholly  vegetable  cooking  fat,  the  solid  cream  of 
wholesome,  edible  oils;  so  rich  that  less  is  required;  so  delicate 
that  it  makes  foods  delicious;  of  such  unvarying  purity  and  depend- 
ability that  once  tried,  it  immediately  establishes  a  place  as  the 
ideal  cooking  fat,  giving  equally  satisfactory  results  for  shorten- 
ing, in  cake  making,  and  for  frying. 

Cakes  made  with  Crisco  are  as  delicious  as  those  made  with 
the  finest  butter,  and  they  stay  moist  and  fresh  unusually  long. 

None  of  the  pastry  made  with  Crisco  is  wasted.  Crisco  makes 
the  crust  delicate  and  flaky  through  and  through.  The  under 
crust  always  is  so  light  and  tender,  there  is  no  suggestion  of 
sogginess  or  toughness. 

Fat  is  saved  in  frying  with  Crisco  because  less  of  it  is  absorbed. 
Crisco  gives  up  its  heat  so  quickly  that  a  rich,  brown  crust  forms 
immediately.  This  action  retains  the  delicate,  natural  flavors 
of  the  food  and  keeps  the  fat  out.  Crisco-fned  foods  therefore 
are  unusually  appetizing,  digestible,  and  not  at  all  greasy.  The 
Crisco  that  remains  can  be  used  again  and  again.  Simply  strain 
it  carefully.    It  retains  no  odor  or  taste  of  the  foods  fried  in  it. 

Economy  and  conservation  both  result  from  the  use  of  Crisco. 
It  gives  the  best  results  for  the  least  expenditure.    The  housewife 

7 


who  uses  Crisco,  profits  in  actual  money,  because  she  uses  less  of 
it  than  of  butter,  and  Crisco  does  not  cost  as  much.  Best  cooks 
everywhere  are  enthusiastic  about  Crisco.  It  is  a  great  war-time 
aid  to  have  a  cooking  fat  that  reduces  living  costs  and  produces 
tasteful  and  wholesome  foods. 

Crisco  is  Kosher,  and  is  a  "parava"  or  neutral  fat.  It  can  be 
used  with  both  milk  and  flesh  foods.  Crisco  sold  to  the  Jewish 
trade  carries  a  Kosher  seal.  All  Crisco,  whether  marked  or  not, 
is  Kosher  and  of  identical  purity. 

You  can  get  Crisco  in  one-pound,  sanitary,  air-tight  packages. 
You  pay  no  more  for  it  than  for  the  same  quantity  of  lard  dug 
out  of  a  pail.    To  use  Crisco  is  a  satisfactory  economy.    Try  it. 

THE  PROCTER  &  GAMBLE  CO. 


WHERE   CRISCO   IS  MADE 


8 


VIRGINIA  SPOON  CORN  BREAD 


3  cupfuls  boiling  water 
l}/2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

cupful  breakfast  hominy 
3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 


%  cupful  milk 

3  eggs,  beaten  light 

cupfuls  corn  meal 
2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 


Add  the  salt  to  the  water,  set  over  a  hot  fire  and  gradually  stir  in  the  hom- 
iny; let  cook  three  or  four  minutes  while  stirring,  then  let  cook  undisturbed  over 
boiling  water  thirty  (30)  minutes;  add  the  Crisco,  milk,  the  eggs  and  the  corn 
meal  sifted  with  the  baking  powder  and  mix  all  together  thoroughly.  Turn  into 
a  Criscoed  baking  dish  (suitable  for  the  table)  and  let  bake  forty-five  minutes. 
This  will  serve  six  or  seven  people,  and  is  to  be  served  with  a  spoon  while  hot. 


9 


s 


EGGS  SCRAMBLED  WITH  PEAS 

4  eggs  34  teaspoonful  black  pepper 

cupful  milk  1  cupful  cooked  peas 

3^  teaspoonful  salt  2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

Beat  the  eggs  with  a  spoon  till  a  full  spoonful  can  be  lifted;  add  the  milk,  salt 
and  pepper.  Melt  the  Crisco  in  an  omelet  pan,  turn  in  the  egg  mixture,  cook  and 
scrape  from  the  pan  until  the  egg  begins  to  thicken;  add  the  peas  and  continue  to 
cook  and  scrape  until  creamy  throughout.   Turn  on  a  hot  plate.    Serve  at  once. 

EGGS  WITH  CREAM  AND  CHEESE 

1  tablespoonful  Crisco  34  teaspoonful  paprika 
%  cupful  thin  cream                           4  eggs 

teaspoonful  salt  3  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese 

4  slices  toast 

Melt  the  Crisco  in  an  omelet  pan,  turn  the  pan  to  coat  the  whole  inner  surface, 
put  in  the  cream,  salt,  and  paprika.  Break  in  the  eggs.  When  the  whites  begin 
to  grow  firm,  sprinkle  on  the  cheese  and  let  cook  long  enough  to  melt  the  cheese, 
when  the  eggs  should  be  done.  Remove  with  a  skimmer  to  four  slices  of  toast, 
and  turn  the  liquid  in  the  dish  over  the  whole. 

POTATO  AND  EGG  OMELET 

2  cold  boiled  potatoes  3^  teaspoonful  salt 
3^  teaspoonful  scraped  onion  pulp         3  eggs 

1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  pars-  3  tablespoonfuls  hot  water 

ley  34  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  34  teaspoonful  paprika 

Chop  the  potatoes,  add  the  onion  and  parsley,  melt  the  Crisco  in  the  omelet 
pan,  add  the  salt  and  potato  mixture,  and  stir  and  cook  until  the  potato  browns 
somewhat  and  is  very  hot;  meanwhile,  beat  the  eggs,  add  the  water,  salt  and  pa- 
prika, and  pour  over  the  potato  mixture;  let  stand  a  minute,  then  shake,  and  tip 
the  pan  to  let  the  uncooked  egg  down  on  the  hot  pan.  When  all  the  egg  is  lightly 
cooked,  roll  and  turn  on  a  hot  dish. 

SPANISH  EGGS 

3^  cupful  rice  1  cupful  tomato  puree 

3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  1  cupful  meat  broth  or  water 
1  slice  onion,  chopped  3^  teaspoonful  paprika 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt  4  fried  or  poached  eggs 

1  tablespoonful  parsley,  fine-chopped 
Heat  the  rice  with  a  pint  of  cold  water  quickly  to  the  boiling  point,  stirring 
with  a  fork  meanwhile;  let  boil  two  minutes,  drain,  rinse  in  cold  water.  Put  over 
the  fire  with  the  Crisco  and  onion  and  stir  and  cook  until  the  fat  is  absorbed;  add 
the  salt,  puree,  broth,  and  paprika,  and  let  cook  over  boiling  water  until  done. 
Turn  on  a  hot  platter  and  set  above  it  the  eggs.  Sprinkle  the  whole  with  the 
parslev.    Serve  at  once. 

10 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


FRENCH  OMELET  WITH  CREAMED  ASPARAGUS 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  1  cupful  asparagus  tips 

1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  3  eggs 

34  teaspoonful  salt  3  tablespoonfuls  water 

34  teaspoonful  pepper  3^  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  milk  3^  teaspoonful  black  pepper 

1  tablespoonful  Crisco 

Melt  the  Crisco,  add  the  cornstarch,  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  until  blended  and 
bubbling,  add  the  milk  (or  half  milk  and  half  water  in  which  asparagus  cooked) 
and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  asparagus  and  keep  hot.  Beat  the  eggs  until  a  full 
spoonful  can  be  lifted,  add  the  water,  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  the  Crisco  in  a  smooth 
omelet  pan,  pour  in  the  egg  mixture;  shake  the  pan,  tilting  it  meanwhile  to  slide 
the  cooked  egg  mixture  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  give  place  for  the  uncooked 
egg  on  the  hot  pan.  When  nearly  set  throughout,  spread  some  of  the  sauce  over 
the  egg,  roll  the  omelet  and  turn  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  the  rest  of  the  asparagus 
and  sauce  around  the  omelet. 

EGGS  IN  NESTS 

1  cupful  cold  pickled  tongue  or  4  eggs 

ham  chopped  fine  4  slices  tomato 

1  cupful  cream  sauce  4  tablespoonfuls  cracker  crumbs 

1  pint  hot  mashed  potato  2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

Rub  over  the  inside  of  a  large  shallow  au  gratin  dish  with  Crisco.  Stir  the  meat 
into  the  sauce  and  spread  over  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Above  the  meat,  form  four 
nests  of  mashed  potato;  break  the  eggs  in  the  nests.  Melt  the  Crisco,  brush  over 
the  potato  with  part  of  the  Crisco,  stir  the  crumbs  into  the  rest.  Set  the  slices 
of  tomato  between  the  eggs,  spread  the  crumbs  over  them.  Cook  in  the  oven  till 
the  eggs  are  done. 

EGGS  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

J£  cupful  dried  mushrooms  34  teaspoonful  paprika 

3^2  cupful  cold  water  3^  cupful  tomato  puree 

34  cupful  Crisco  1  cupful  rich  brown  stock 

}/&  cupful  barley  flour  6  slices  toast 

¥2  teaspoonful  salt  6  poached  eggs 

Soak  the  mushrooms  in  the  cold  water  an  hour  or  longer.  Melt  the  Crisco, 
in  it  cook  the  flour,  salt,  and  paprika,  add  the  puree,  stock,  and  water  drained 
from  the  mushrooms,  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  mushrooms  chopped  fine. 
Set  the  eggs  on  the  toast  and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  whole. 


FRIED  EGGS 

Melt  about  half  a  cupful  of  Crisco  in  a  small  frying  pan;  after  it  has  been  melted 
a  few  minutes  (when  it  will  brown  a  crumb  of  bread  in  ninety  seconds)  add  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  break  into  it  two  or  three  fresh  eggs;  as  soon  as  the  eggs 
are  "set"  on  the  bottom,  run  a  spatula  beneath  them  to  detach  from  the  pan,  if 
it  is  necessary;  pour  the  Crisco  over  the  yolks  with  a  spoon  until  the  egg  is  as  firm 
as  desired;  remove  with  a  skimmer  to  slices  of  cooked  ham  or  to  mounds  of  mashed 
or  creamed  potatoes  or  slices  of  toast.  If  the  Crisco  be  kept  at  proper  temperature, 
the  eggs  will  look  as  if  poached  in  water.  They  are  particularly  good  cooked  this 
way. 

11 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CONSERVATION  CUTLETS 

4  hard-cooked  eggs,  cut  fine  1  cupful  chicken  broth 

Y2  cupful  ham,  cut  fine  Y  cupful  rich  milk 

Yi  cupful  chicken,  cut  fine  Y2  teaspoonful  celery  salt 

Y  cupful  Crisco  Yl  teaspoonful  paprika 

Y  teaspoonful  salt  1  egg,  uncooked 

Y  cupful  cornstarch  1  cupful  bread  crumbs 

3  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

Prepare  the  solid  ingredients,  which  should  be  kept  rather  coarse.  Melt  the 
Crisco,  add  the  salt  and  cornstarch,  and  stir  and  cook  until  frothy;  add  the  broth 
and  milk  and  stir  until  boiling,  add  the  dry  ingredients  with  the  celery  salt  and 
paprika,  mix  and  turn  on  a  Criscoed  plate.  W  hen  cold,  shape  into  eight  cutlets, 
dip  in  the  egg,  beaten  and  mixed  with  its  bulk  of  milk  or  water,  and  then  in  the 
crumbs  mixed  with  the  melted  Crisco.  Set  on  a  Criscoed  tin  and  let  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  until  hot  throughout.    Serve  with  peas,  asparagus  or  creamed  potatoes. 

EGGS  SHIRRED  WITH  CREAMED  ASPARAGUS  TIPS 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  \Y  cupfuls  asparagus  tips  (cooked) 

1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  4  raw  eggs 

Y  teaspoonful  salt  4  tablespoonfuls  cracker  crumbs 

Y  teaspoonful  pepper  1  tablespoonful  melted  Crisco 

1  cupful  milk  few  grains  of  salt 

Melt  the  Crisco,  add  the  cornstarch,  salt  and  pepper;  cook  until  blended  and 
frothy;  add  the  milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  asparagus  tips.  Rub  over  the 
inside  of  four  shirring  dishes  with  Crisco;  put  in  a  spoonful  of  the  creamed  aspar- 
agus in  each  dish;  break  an  egg  above  the  mixture;  cover  with  sauce  and  aspara- 
gus; sprinkle  with  the  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with  Crisco  and  salt.  Bake  until 
the  egg  is  cooked  soft  or  hard  as  desired. 

CURRIED  EGGS 

4  hard-cooked  eggs  Y  tablespoonful  curry  powder 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  Y  teaspoonful  salt 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  onion  Y  teaspoonful  pepper 

1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  1  cupful  milk 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice 
Cut  the  eggs  in  even  slices.    Melt  the  Crisco;  in  it  cook  the  onion  until  softened 
and  yellowed,  add  the  cornstarch,  curry  powder,  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  and 
cook  until  well  blended;  add  the  milk  and  stir  until  smooth  and  boiling;  add  the 
lemon  juice  and  eggs.    Serve  with  potato,  rice  or  fried  hominy. 

EGGS  WITH  DRIED  BEEF 

Pick  half  a  cupful  of  dried  beef  in  bits,  discarding  all  white  threads.  Melt 
one  tablespoonful  of  Crisco  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  beef  and  stir  and  cook  two  or 
three  minutes;  add  three-fourths  a  cupful  of  water,  milk  or  tomato  puree,  and  heat 
to  the  boiling  point.  Divide  the  mixture  among  four  shirring  dishes,  break  an  egg 
above  the  mixture.  Mix  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  crumbs  with  one  table- 
spoonful of  melted  Crisco  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  sprinkle  over 
the  eggs.  Cook  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  egg  is  "set."  Serve  at  once  in  the 
shirring  dishes. 

12 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


SARDINE  OMELET 


2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

3  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

3  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 


1  box  sardines 


3  tablespoonfuls  of  water 
J^j  teaspoonful  salt 
}i  teaspoonful  pepper 


Have  the  Crisco  melting  in  the  omelet  pan.  Mix  the  water,  salt  and  pepper 
through  the  beaten  yolks,  fold  in  the  whites  and  turn  into  the  pan.  Let  stand  on 
the  range  a  moment,  then  set  into  a  moderate  oven  to  cook  until  a  knife  thrust 
into  the  center  of  the  omelet  shows  no  uncooked  egg.  Heat  the  sardines  (care- 
fully wiped)  between  two  pans  in  the  oven.  Score  the  omelet  at  right  angles  to 
the  handle  of  the  pan.  Lay  the  sardines  across  the  lower  half  of  the  omelet,  fold 
and  turn  on  a  hot  dish.  Serve  at  once.  If  preferred,  the  sardines  broken  into 
pieces  of  same  size  may  be  carefully  mixed  through  a  cup  and  a  half  of  cream 
sauce  before  being  spread  between  and  around  the  omelet. 


When  only  a  small  quantity  of  tender,  cooked  meat  is  available  (as  chicken, 
boiled  fore  quarter  lamb  or  ham),  chop  the  meat;  for  a  cupful  of  meat,  prepare  ax:up- 
ful  of  sauce,  using  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  Crisco  and  flour,  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful each  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  cupful  of  broth  (liquid  in  which  the  meat 
was  cooked)  or  milk.  Heat  the  meat  in  the  sauce.  Dip  the  edges  of  four  slices 
of  toasted  bread  in  boiling  salted  water,  set  them  on  a  serving  dish,  spread  them 
with  the  meat,  and  set  an  egg  fried  carefully  in  Crisco  (see  page  n)  above  the  meat. 
Serve  at  once. 


For  each  egg  to  be  served,  take  two  mushrooms,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
a  scraping  of  onion  pulp,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  Crisco.  Chop  the  mushrooms, 
add  the  parsley  and  onion,  and  cook  in  the  Crisco  melted  in  a  frying  pan.  Sprinkle 
part  of  the  mixture  over  a  Criscoed  earthen  cocotte  or  little  cup,  break  in  a  fresh- 
laid  egg,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  the  rest  of  the  chopped  material.  Set 
the  dishes  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  in  the  oven.  Let  cook  from  six  to  ten  minutes 
according  to  the  consistency  desired.  Serve  in  the  cocotte  with  or  without  a 
tablespoonful  of  hot  cream  or  tomato  sauce  poured  over  the  egg.  Fine  soft  bread 
crumbs  or  cream,  one  or  both,  may  be  mixed  with  the  chopped  ingredients  before 
using. 


Slice  an  onion,  cover  with  boiling  water,  let  heat  quickly  to  the  boiling  point; 
drain,  add  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  two  cloves,  small  piece  of  mace,  and  one-fourth 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  let  simmer  half  an  hour.  Pick  out  the  mace  and  cloves;  press 
the  onion  through  a  puree  sieve.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  Crisco,  in  it  cook  two 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  add  the  milk  and  onion,  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  half  a 
cupful  of  fine  stale  bread  crumbs,  about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one-fourth 
a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper.  Let  boil  five  minutes  and  turn  into  a  Criscoed 
baking  dish.  Break  three  or  four  eggs  into  the  dish.  Let  cook  in  the  oven  until 
the  eggs  are  "set." 


HASHED  MEAT  WITH  FRIED  EGGS 


EGGS  IN  CUPS  WITH  FINE  HERBS 


EGGS  IN  ONION  PUREE 


13 


Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


GRAHAM  AND  BARLEY  BREAD 

1/4  cupfuls  scalded  milk  1  cake  compressed  yeast 
2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  cupful  lukewarm  water 

1  teaspoonful  salt  cupfuls  graham  flour 
3^$  cupful  molasses  1  cupful  barley  flour 

}/i  cupful  wheat  flour 
To  the  milk  add  the  Crisco,  salt  and  molasses;  when  lukewarm,  stir  in  the  yeast, 
mixed  through  the  water  and  the  flour.  The  dough  should  not  be  stiff*  enough  to 
knead.  Cover  and  let  become  light.  Cut  down  and  turn  into  a  Criscoed  bread 
pan.  When  again  light,  bake  about  one  hour.  1  he  pan  should  be  larger  than 
the  ordinary  bread  pan. 

POTATO  BREAD  (2  loaves) 

2  cupfuls  of  mashed  potato  water  in  which  potatoes  were 
2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  cooked 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  y%to  I  whole  cake  compressed  yeast 

134  teaspoonfuls  salt  Y2  cuptul  potato  water  cooled  to 

1  cupful  scalded  milk,  or  lukewarm 

3^2  cupful  milk  and  3^2  cupful  4  cupfuls  (  about)  wheat  flour 

Melt  the  Crisco,  sugar  and  salt  in  the  mashed  potato;  add  the  liquid,  the  yeast 
mixed  in  the  half  cupful  of  potato  water  and  the  flour  and  mix  to  a  stiff  dough. 
Knead  thoroughly,  adding  flour  as  needed,  as  the  dough  softens  on  rising. 

BARLEY  BREAD  (2  loaves) 

333^3  per  cent  substitution 

2  cupfuls  scalded  milk,  or  2  tablespoonfuls  lime  water 

part  milk,  part  water  3^  t0  1  whole  cake  compressed  yeast 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  }/i  cupful  lukewarm  water 

1  teaspoonful  salt  2  cupfuls  barley  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  4  cupfuls  (  about)  wheat  flour 

Add  the  lime  water  with  the  Crisco,  salt  and  sugar  to  the  milk,  and  finish  in 
the  same  manner  as  the  other  varieties  of  yeast  bread. 

WHITE  OATMEAL  BREAD 
About  33}  £  per  cent  substitution 

13^2  cupfuls  rolled  oats  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

2  cupfuls  scalded  milk,  or  1  tablespoonful  Crisco 

1  cupful  milk  and  1  cupful  water  3^  cake  compressed  yeast 

\Yl  teaspoonfuls  salt  cupful  lukewarm  water 

4J^2  cupfuls  wheat  flour  (about) 
Put  the  hot  liquid  over  the  oats,  add  the  salt,  sugar  and  Crisco.    When  luke- 
warm add  the  yeast  mixed  with  the-  half  cupful  of  liquid  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Stir  in  the  flour.    Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic,  cover  and  set  aside  overnight. 
Shape  into  two  loaves.    \\  hen  again  light,  bake  50  to  60  minutes. 

14 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


ONE  LOAF  RAISIN  BREAD 


(wheat) 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 


1  cake  compressed  yeast 
134   cupfuls  scalded-and-cooled 


milk 

\%  cupfuls  bread  flour  (about) 


3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco,  melted 

%  teaspoonful  salt 

1  egg,  beaten  light 

%  cupful  raisins 

1  cupful  rice  flour 

34  cupful  wheat  flour 


Mix  the  yeast,  broken  in  pieces,  with  x/i  a  cupful  of  the  milk;  add  to  the  rest 
of  the  milk  with  the  first  measure  of  flour  and  beat  until  smooth.  Cover  and 
let  stand  out  of  drafts  until  very  light  and  full  of  bubbles;  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients and  mix  to  a  dough.  Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Set  aside  to  double 
in  bulk;  shape  for  a  brick-loaf  pan,  when  again  light;  bake  one  hour. 


IS 


TWO  LOAVES  RYE  BREAD 

Wheat  only  for  kneading 

2  cupfuls  scalded  milk,   or   part  teaspoonfuls  salt 

water  }/§  cake  compressed  yeast 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  cupful  lukewarm  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses  or  5  cupfuls  rye  flour,  wheat  flour  for 

sugar  dough  that  may  be  kneaded 

To  the  hot  liquid,  add  the  Crisco,  molasses,  or  salt;  when  lukewarm  add  the  yeast 
mixed  with  the  water  and  the  flour;  knead  thoroughly.  Set  aside  out  of  drafts 
to  double  in  bulk.  Shape  into  two  loaves.  When  again  doubled  in  bulk,  bake 
about  50  minutes. 

ONE  LOAF  CORN  MEAL  BREAD 

1  cupful  scalded  milk  }4  to  1  whole  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  tablespoonful  Crisco  34  cupful  lukewarm  water 

1  tablespoonful  sugar  %  cupful  corn  flour  or  corn  meal 

%  teaspoonful  salt  234  cupfuls  (about)  wheat  flour 

To  the  milk  add  the  Crisco,  sugar,  and  salt.  Use  the  small  portion  of  yeast  if 
the  bread  be  mixed  at  night;  the  whole  cake  if  mixed  in  the  morning.  Mix  the 
yeast  through  the  water,  and  stir  into  the  milk,  cooled  to  a  lukewarm  tempera- 
ture, then  stir  in  the  flour;  knead  and  set  aside  out  of  drafts  to  double  in  bulk. 
Shape  into  a  loaf.    When  again  doubled  in  bulk,  bake  about  50  minutes. 

STEAMED  DATE  BREAD 

1  cupful  rye  meal  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  corn  meal  2  cupfuls  thick  sour  milk 

1  cupful  barley  flour  %  cupful  molasses 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda  1  cupful  dates 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

Sift  together  the  meal,  flour,  soda,  and  salt;  add  the  sour  milk,  molasses  and 
Crisco,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Rub  over  the  inside  of  three  baking  powder  boxes 
or  two  (pound  size)  cocoa  tins  with  Crisco;  put  in  some  dates,  rinsed  in  hot  water, 
dried  and  cut  in  pieces;  cover  with  dough;  add  more  pieces  of  date,  then  dough, 
and  alternate  with  dates  and  dough  till  all  are  used.  Set  to  steam  with  cold 
water,  that  the  mixture  may  rise  before  cooking.  Steam  three  hours.  The 
water  must  not  stop  boiling  for  at  least  two  hours. 

ROLLED  OATS  BREAD 

2    cupfuls  scalded  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  maple  syrup, 

1  cupful  rolled  oats,  ground  in  or  molasses 

food  chopper  or  coffee  mill  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  teaspoonful  salt  3^  cupful  lukewarm  water 

1  tablespoonful  Crisco  23^  cupfuls  wheat  flour 

Stir  the  oats  and  salt  into  the  hot  milk,  cover,  and  cook  (in  double  boiler)  20 
minutes;  add  the  Crisco  and  syrup  or  molasses;  when  cooled  to  lukewarm,  stir 
in  the  yeast  mixed  with  the  water  and  the  flour;  mix  and  cut  through  the  mixture 
with  a  spoon  for  several  minutes;  cover  and  let  stand  until  double  in  bulk;  cut 
down  and  turn  into  a  Criscoed  pan;  when  nearly  doubled  in  bulk,  bake  about  one 
hour.  More  flour  may  be  added  and  the  dough  kneaded.  The  texture  of  the  bread 
will  be  different  from  that  made  of  the  soft  dough  without  kneading. 

16 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


COFFEE  CAKE 


1  cake  compressed  yeast 

34  cupful  lukewarm  water 

1  cupful  scalded  and  cooled  milk 

about  1%  cupfuls  wheat  flour 

%  teaspoonful  salt 

34  cupful  sugar 

}4  cupful  melted  Crisco 


1  egg,  beaten  light 
1  cupful  wheat  flour 
1  cupful  corn  flour 
egg  white 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
1  tablespoonful  cinnamon 
34  cupful  sliced  almonds 


Mix  the  yeast  with  the  water;  add  to  the  milk  with  flour  for  the  sponge  and 
beat  until  smooth;  cover  and  let  become  light;  add  the  salt,  sugar,  melted  Crisco, 
egg  and  flour  as  needed.  Beat  until  smooth,  cover  and  set  aside  to  become  doubled 
in  bulk;  cut  down  and  spread  in  a  pan  rubbed  over  with  Crisco.  When  again  light 
brush  the  top  of  the  cake  with  egg  white,  dredge  with  the  sugar  and  cinnamon 
and  sprinkle  on  the  nuts.  Bake  about  twenty-five  minutes.  Use  a  pan  about 
10  x  8  inches. 

Recipe  for  Philadelphia  Butter  Buns  (herewith  illustrated)  on  page  27. 


17 


BRAN  BREAD 


1  cupful  wheat  flour 
%  cupful  barley  flour 
13^2  teaspoonfuls  soda 
1  teaspoonful  salt 
13^2  cupfuls  bran 
Sift  together  the  flour,  soda,  and  s 
mix  to  a  dough;  bake  in  a  moderate  c 


3^  cupful  molasses 

1  egg,  beaten  light 

1  tablespoonful  melted  Crisco 

13^2  cupfuls  sour  milk 

J/£  cupful  raisins,  if  desired 

t;  add  the  bran  and  the  other  ingredients; 
ren  about  50  minutes. 


PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  teaspoonful  salt 

34  cupful  scalded  and  cooled  milk  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

1  cupful  scalded  and  cooled  milk  34  cupful  melted  Crisco 

13^  cupfuls  wheat  flour  1  cupful  rice  flour 

About  3^2  cupful  wheat  flour 
Soften  the  yeast  in  the  one-fourth  cupful  of  milk,  mix  thoroughly  and  add  to 
the  cupful  of  milk,  and  stir  in  the  flour;  use  enough  to  make  a  batter  that  is  easily 
beaten;  beat  until  smooth,  cover  and  let  stand  until  light;  add  the  other  ingredi- 
ents and  mix  to  a  soft  dough.  Add  the  last  of  the  flour,  carefully,  to  avoid  a  stiff 
dough.  Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Wash  the  bowl  and  brush  over  the 
inside  with  Crisco;  put  in  the  dough,  cover  and  let  stand  to  double  in  bulk.  Care- 
fully turn  the  dough  upside  down  on  the  board,  very  lightly  dredged  with  flour; 
pat  with  the  rolling  pin  and  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick.  If  directions 
have  been  followed  the  dough  may  be  rolled  out  with  but  a  few  motions  of  the  pin. 
Lift  the  dough  (that  it  may  "fly  back"  into  place  now  rather  than  after  the  rolls 
are  cut  out);  cut  into  rounds,  brush  over  one-half  of  each  round  with  melted  Crisco 
and  fold  in  the  center.    Set  close  together  in  a  Criscoed  pan. 

When  doubled  in  bulk,  bake  about  half  an  hour.  For  a  crusty  exterior,  brush 
over  the  top  of  the  cooked  rolls  with  slightly  beaten  white  of  egg;  for  a  soft  crust, 
brush  over  with  thin  starch,  and  in  both  cases  return  to  the  oven  to  set  the  glaze. 
Both  the  egg  and  starch  should  be  well  rubbed  in.  To  make  the  starch  stir  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water,  then  pour  on  half  a  cupful 
of  boiling  water  and  let  boil  ten  minutes. 

CONSERVATION  SANDWICHES,  No.  1 

Spread  any  variety  of  stale  bread  cut  for  sandwiches  with  butter  and  a  thick 
layer  of  grated  cheese  (dry).  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika  and  press  together 
corresponding  slices  or  shapes.  Melt  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  Crisco  in  a 
frying  pan,  lay  in  the  sandwiches  and  when  delicately  browned  on  one  side,  turn 
to  brown  the  other  side.  If  the  bread  be  very  stale,  beat  an  egg,  add  half  a  cupful  or 
more  of  milk,  with  a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  soften  the  sandwiches  in  this 
before  frying  them. 

CONSERVATION  SANDWICHES,  No.  2 

6  olives  cooked  salad  dressing 

1  or  2  chicken  livers  bread  cut  for  sandwiches 

Chop  the  olives  fine,  mash  the  cooked  livers  smooth,  mix  the  olives  and  livers 
with  enough  dressing  to  make  a  smooth  paste,  and  use  as  a  filling  for  any  variety 
of  bread. 

18 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


BARLEY-AND-RIGE  MUFFINS 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  1  cupful  barley  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  egg,  well  beaten  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  boiled  rice  1  cupful  milk 

Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  in  the  sugar,  the  egg,  and  rice  (grains  should  be  distinct), 
and  beat  thoroughly.  Mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Add,  alter- 
nately, with  milk  to  first  mixture.  Beat  well;  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  25 
minutes. 

DELICATE  CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS 

1  cupful  scalded  milk  1  egg,  beaten  light 

J/£  cupful  corn  meal  3^2  cupful  wheat  flour,  or 

1  cupful  cold  milk  1  cupful  oat  flour 

Y/2  teaspoonful  salt  34  cupful  rice  flour 

1  tablespoonful  Crisco  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Mix  the  corn  meal  with  the  cold  milk  and  salt,  and  stir  into  the  scalded  milk. 
Stir  and  let  cook  to  a  thick  mush;  add  the  Crisco  and  cool  a  little;  add  the  egg  and 
flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  hot  well- 
Criscoed  muffin  pan  about  20  minutes. 

CHEESE  MUFFINS 

1  cupful  rye  meal  34  cupful  honey  or  sugar 

1  cupful  oat,  barley  or  wheat  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  cupful  milk 

3^  teaspoonful  salt  4  tablespoonfuls  Crisco,  melted 

To  the  dry  ingredients  sifted  together,  add  the  liquid  ingredients  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Have  ready  an  iron  muffin  pan,  hot  and  well-Criscoed;  put  a  spoonful 
of  mixture  in  each  compartment,  lay  on  a  thin  slice  of  cheese,  and  add  another 
spoonful  of  batter.    Bake  about  25  minutes. 

BRAN  MUFFINS 

1  cupful  wheat  flour  %  teaspoonful  salt 

3^2  cupful  corn  flour  or  meal  1  cupful  purified  bran 

}/l  cupful  rye  meal  34  cupful  molasses 

1  teaspoonful  soda  3  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  egg,  beaten  light 

2  cupfuls  buttermilk 

Sift  together  the  first  six  ingredients;  add  the  others  and  mix  thoroughly.  Bake 
about  25  minutes  in  a  hot  well-Criscoed  muffin  pan  (preferably  iron).  The  recipe 
makes  18  muffins. 

OATMEAL  MUSH  MUFFINS 

1  cupful  warm  oatmeal  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

4  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  1  teaspoonful  salt 

34  cupful  sugar  1  egg,  beaten  light 

1  cupful  flour  or  corn  meal  Yi  cupful  milk  (about) 

Left-over  mush  may  be  reheated;  in  it  melt  the  Crisco,  add  the  dry  ingredients 
sifted  together,  then  the  egg  and  milk,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  hot,  well- 
Criscoed  iron  muffin  pan  about  25  minutes. 

19 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CORN  BREAD 


Y2  cupful  Crisco  2  cupfuis  sifted  pastry  flour,  or 

}/2  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  oat  or  barley  flour 

3  egg  yolks  1  cupful  wheat  flour 

cupfuis  sweet  milk  5  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

%  cupful  corn  meal  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  egg  whites,  beaten  dry 

Cream  the  Crisco,  beat  in  the  sugar,  then  the  yolks,  beaten  light.  Sift  to- 
gether the  corn  meal,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  add  to  the  first  mixture  alter- 
nately with  the  milk,  then  beat  in  the  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  a  well-Criscoed 
pan  about  twenty-five  minutes. 


20 


MICHIGAN  MUFFINS 

1  cupful  barley  or  oat  flour  \>A  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Y2  cupful  wheat  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt  3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco,  melted 

Yl  teaspoonful  soda  1  cupful  thick  sour  cream  or  sour  milk 

Sift  all  the  dry  ingredients  together  into  a  bowl;  add  the  egg,  Crisco,  and  cream, 
and  beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  well-Criscoed  muffin  pan  or  in  Criscoed  rings 
set  on  a  hot  griddle.  When  baked  on  the  griddle,  turn  when  the  first  side  is  baked 
to  bake  the  other  side. 

BARLEY  MEAL  MUFFINS 

1  cupful  barley  meal  M  cupful  sugar 

1  cupful  whole  wheat  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  V/±  cupfuls  milk 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt  2  to  3  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  milk  and  egg  and  mix  thoroughly; 
beat  in  the  Crisco.    Bake  in  a  hot,  well-Criscoed  muffin  pan  about  25  minutes. 

BUCKWHEAT  MUFFINS 

1  cupful  buckwheat  flour  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cupful  corn  meal  1  egg,  beaten  light 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt  1  cupful  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

Pass  all  the  dry  ingredients  through  the  sieve  together.  Add  the  liquid  ingre- 
dients and  mix  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  hot,  well-Criscoed  iron  muffin  pan  about 
25  minutes. 

RYE  MEAL  POP-OVERS 

%  cupful  rye  meal  J£  teaspoonful  salt 

y>  cupful  wheat,  barley,  or  1  cupful  milk 

oat  flour  2  eggs 

1  tablespoonful  melted  Crisco 

Pass  the  dry  ingredients  through  the  sieve  together;  remove  any  straws  in 
sieve  and  add  bran  to  other  ingredients;  add  milk,  eggs,  and  Crisco,  and  beat  with 
a  Dover  egg-beater  until  smooth.  Turn  into  very  hot,  well-Criscoed  iron  muffin 
pan.    Bake  about  40  minutes. 

CANADIAN  OAT  MUFFINS 

Canadian  oat  flour  is  rather  coarser  than  graham  flour.  Either  this  or  the 
oat  flour  ground  in  the  United  States,  or  rolled  oats  ground  in  a  food  chopper, 
makes  good  muffins. 

1  cupful  oat  flour  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cupful  wheat  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

}/i  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  milk  (about) 

%  teaspoonful  salt  3  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

Sift  all  the  dry  ingredients  together.  If  the  oat  flour  is  coarse  and  does  not  pass 
through  the  sieve,  remove  any  straws  that  are  present,  and  add  the  rest  to  the  other 
dry  ingredients.  Stir  in  the  egg,  milk,  and  Crisco.  Bake  in  hot  Criscoed  pan 
about  25  minutes. 

21 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


GRAHAM-AND-BARLEY  POP-OVERS 


3  eggs,  beaten  light  1  cupful  barley  flour 

2  cupfuls  milk  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

1  tablespoonful  lime  water  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  Graham  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

Add  the  milk  to  the  eggs;  sift  together  the  dry  ingredients;  gradually  beat  the 
dry  ingredients  into  the  liquid,  using  an  egg  beater;  lastly,  beat  in  the  Crisco. 
Bake  in  hot  well-Criscoed  glass  or  other  cups  nearly  one  hour. 


22 


WAR  MUFFINS  (no  wheat) 

2  cupfuls  barley  flour  1  egg  beaten  light 

1  cupful  corn  flour  x/i  cupful  molasses 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  3  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

V/2  teaspoonfuls  salt  V/i  cupfuls  milk 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  egg,  molasses,  Crisco  and  milk;  beat  well; 
bake  in  hot  Criscoed  muffin  pans,  in  a  moderate  oven,  about  25  minutes. 

OATMEAL-AND-CORN-MEAL  MUFFINS 

1  cupful  soft  cooked  oatmeal  (left  1  egg,  beaten  light 

over,  warmed)  %  cupful  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  2  cupfuls  corn  meal 

1  teaspoonful  salt  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

34  cupful  sugar 

Melt  the  Crisco  in  the  oatmeal;  add  the  salt,  egg,  and  milk,  then  beat  in  the  corn 
meal,  baking  powder,  and  sugar,  sifted  together.  Bake  in  hot  Criscoed  iron  muffin 
pans.   The  recipe  makes  eighteen  muffins. 

COOKED  RICE  MUFFINS  (12  muffins) 

1  cupful  cooked  rice,  grains  dis-  1  cupful  wheat  flour 

tinct  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powTder 

1  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

Mix  the  rice  evenly  through  the  milk  and  Crisco.  A  beaten  egg  may  be  added 
if  desired.  Sift  in  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  and  sugar,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Bake  in  a  hot  Criscoed  muffin  pan  about  25  minutes. 

LIBERTY  BARLEY  YEAST  BISCUIT 

1  cupful  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  34  cupful  Crisco,  melted 

1  tablespoonful  lime  water  3/2  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

34  cupful  lukewarm  water  %  cupful  barley  flour 

13^2  cupfuls  wheat  flour  (about)  Y2  cupful  rye  meal 

3^2  cupful  wheat  flour  (about) 
Add  the  lime  water  to  the  milk;  soften  and  mix  the  yeast  with  the  lukewarm  water 
and  add  to  the  milk  with  the  flour.  Beat  until  smooth,  cover,  and  let  stand  to 
become  very  light;  add  the  Crisco,  salt,  sugar,  and  flour,  and  mix  to  a  dough. 
Knead  and  set  to  rise  in  a  clean  Criscoed  bowl.  When  light,  turn  upside  down 
on  a  board,  roll  into  a  sheet,  cut  into  rounds,  and  set  into  a  Criscoed  pan.  When 
again  light  bake  about  20  minutes. 

RYE  MEAL  BISCUIT 

1  cupful  rye  meal  Y2  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  wheat  flour  2  to  3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  %  cupful  milk  (about) 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients;  remove  straws,  if  present,  from  the  bran  (rye), 
and  add  to  the  sifted  ingredients.  Cut  in  the  Crisco;  add  the  milk,  a  few  drops 
at  a  time,  and  mix  to  a  dough.  Turn  on  a  floured  board  to  coat  slightly,  knead, 
roll  in  a  thin  sheet,  and  cut  in  rounds;  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

23 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


BARLEY  AND  RICE  FLOUR  BISCUIT 


13^  cupfuls  barley  flour  Y2  teaspoonful  salt 

Yi  cupful  rice  flour  4  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  2  tablespoonfuls  lime  water 

%  cupful  milk  or  water  (about) 

Pass  together  through  a  sieve,  three  times,  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt. 
With  two  knives  or  finger  tips,  work  in  the  Crisco;  add  the  liquid,  a  little  at  a 
time,  mixing  with  a  knife,  meanwhile,  to  a  soft  dough,  but  one  that  can  be  handled. 
Turn  the  dough  upon  a  floured  board  and  turn  with  a  knife  until  lightly  floured, 
then  knead  lightly  with  the  hands  to  get  it  into  a  smooth  mass;  pat  with  the  roll- 
ing pin  and  roll  into  a  sheet  about  three-fourths  an  inch  thick;  cut  into  rounds;  set 
these  close  together  in  a  Criscoed  pan  and  bake  from  15  to  20  minutes.  For  white 
flour  biscuits  substitute  two  cupfuls  of  white  flour  for  the  barley  and  rice  flour. 


BARLEY  DROP  BISCUIT 

2  cupfuls  barley  flour  5  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
13^2  teaspoonfuls  salt                           4  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

1  cupful  milk 

Mix  and  sift  together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder;  cut  in  the  Crisco  with 
two  knives  or  work  it  in  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers;  mix  to  a  soft  dough  with  the 
milk;  drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  Criscoed  baking  pan.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

POTATO  BISCUITS 

13^2  cupfuls  pastry  flour  1  cupful  mashed  potato 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  Y  cupful  Crisco 

1  teaspoonful  salt  about  3^2  cupful  milk 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  add  the  potato  pressed  through 
a  ricer,  cut  in  the  Crisco,  then  use  milk,  as  needed,  to  mix  to  a  dough  that  cleans 
the  bowl.  Turn  on  a  floured  board  with  the  knife  to  coat  with  flour;  knead  slightly 
then  pat  and  roll  into  a  sheet.  Cut  in  rounds  and  bake  about  15  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven. 

BARLEY  AND  WHEAT  BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT 

1  cupful  barley  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

1  cupful  wheat  flour  1  teaspoonful  salt 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  about  %  cupful  milk 

Mix  and  sift  all  dry  ingredients  together.  Cut  in  or  work  in  with  the  tips  of 
the  fingers  very  thoroughly  the  Crisco.  Add  the  milk  gradually,  cutting  it 
in  with  a  knife,  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Toss  lightly  on  a  well-floured  board,  roll 
to  one-half  inch  in  thickness,  shape  wTith  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
15  minutes.    This  same  dough  can  be  used  for  fruit  dumplings. 

RICE  PUFFS 

1  cupful  boiled  rice  2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt  2  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 

1  tablespoonful  Crisco 

The  grains  of  rice  should  be  distinct,  preferably  hot,  add  the  salt,  Crisco,  and 
yolks;  then  fold  in  the  whites.  Drop  by  tablespoonfuls  in  Criscoed  tins.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven. 

24 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


QUICK  BUCKWHEAT  GRIDDLECAKES 

1  cupful  buckwheat  flour  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

3^  teaspoonful  salt  1  cupful  cold  water 

1  tablespoonful  sugar  }4  cupful  milk 

1  tablespoonful  melted  Crisco 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  twice,  add  the  other  ingredients  and  mix.  Bake 
at  once  on  a  hot  griddle. 

CORN  FLAKE  GRIDDLECAKES 

3^2  cupful  wheat,  oat  or  barley  3^2  teaspoonful  salt 

flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

34  cupful  corn  or  rice  flour  1  cupful  milk 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  tablespoonful  melted  Crisco 

i  cupful  corn  flakes 

Sift  together  the  first  four  ingredients,  add  the  others  in  the  order  enumerated 
and  mix.  Bake  at  once  on  a  hot  Criscoed  griddle.  A  little  more  milk  may  be 
needed,  but  do  not  add  until  after  baking  one  cake. 

PLAIN  RICE  GRIDDLECAKES 

1  cupful  hot,  boiled  rice  3^  cupful  wheat,  oat  or  barley 

(grains  distinct)  flour 
1  tablespoonful  Crisco  34  cupful  corn  or  rice  flour 

1  cupful  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  egg,  beaten  very  light  3^  teaspoonful  salt 

Melt  the  Crisco  in  the  hot  rice;  add  the  milk  and  egg,  and  the  flour  sifted  with 
baking  powder  and  salt.    Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  at  once  on  a  hot  griddle. 

OATMEAL  GRIDDLECAKES 

1  cupful  cold  cooked  oatmeal  1  egg,  beaten  very  light 

Ji2  teaspoonful  salt  3^  cupful  wheat  flour 

Y2  cupful  boiling  water  34  cupful  corn  flour 

3^  cupful  sour  or  buttermilk  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

3^  teaspoonful  soda 

Mix  the  oatmeal,  salt  and  boiling  water  to  a  smooth  consistency;  add  the  milk, 
egg  and  flour,  sifted  with  the  baking  powder  and  soda,  and  mix.  Bake  on  a  hot 
griddle  rubbed  over  with  Crisco. 

WHEATLESS  RICE  GRIDDLECAKES  (no  milk) 

3^2  cupful  rice  2  egg  yolks 

3  cupfuls  boiling  water  3^  cupful  barley  flour 

1  teaspoonful  salt  34  cupful  rice  or  corn  flour 

V/2  cupfuls  sifted  rice  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

34  teaspoonful  salt  2  egg  whites,  beaten  light 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

Wash  or  blanch  the  rice,  then  cook  in  the  water  with  the  salt  till  tender.  Press 
the  rice  through  a  ricer  or  sieve;  the  rice  will  now  be  quite  liquid  as  all  the  water 
is  to  be  retained;  this  is  the  rice  of  which  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  are  to  be  taken; 
add  the  salt,  yolks  and  flour,  sifted  with  the  baking  powder,  and  mix,  then  beat 
in  the  whites  and  Crisco.    Bake  at  once  on  a  hot  griddle. 

25 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


WAR  TIME  GRIDDLECAKES 


1  egg  3rolk  2  cupfuls  barley  or  oat  flour 

24  cupful  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

2-4  cupful  water  8  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2l/2  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  1  tablespoonful  melted  Crisco 

1  egg  white 

Soak  stale  bread  until  sufficiently  soft.  Squeeze  as  dry  as  possible.  Then  crum- 
ble and  measure.  Beat  egg  yolk  well,  add  milk,  water,  bread  crumbs,  flour,  salt, 
baking  powder  and  melted  Crisco.  Beat  the  egg  white  and  add  it.  Fry  in  well- 
Criscoed  pans.  This  recipe  makes  about  two  dozen  medium-sized  cakes.  Serve 
with  a  "conservation  syrup"  made  of  apple  or  other  fruit  parings,  water  and  sugar. 
A  little  Loganberry  juice  will  give  it  a  delicious  flavor. 


SOUR  MILK  GRIDDLECAKES 

1  cupful  sour  or  buttermilk  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  egg,  beaten  light  }/&  teaspoonful  soda 

24  cupful  barley  flour  teaspoonful  salt 

J4  cupful  rice  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

Add  the  milk  and  egg  to  the  flour,  baking  powder,  soda,  and  salt,  sifted  together; 
mix,  add  the  Crisco,  and  beat  in  thoroughly.  Bake  on  hot,  Criscoed  griddle. 
Other  flour  may  be  used  in  the  same  way.  Bake  one  cake;  if  too  thick,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sweet  milk  or  water;  if  too  thin,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


BARLEY  WAFFLES 

1  cupful  barley  flour  Y2  teaspoonful  salt 

3^  cupful  corn  flour  3  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

}/2  cupful  wheat  flour  1J4  cupfuls  milk 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  6  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

3  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 

Sift  together  the  first  five  ingredients;  add  the  yolks,  milk,  and  Crisco  and  beat 
thoroughly;  fold  in  the  whites;  bake  in  a  hot,  well-Criscoed  waffle  iron. 


RICE  WAFFLES 

1  cupful  oat  or  barley  flour  1  cupful  boiled  rice,  grains  distinct 

3^2  cupful  wheat  flour  3  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

¥2  teaspoonful  salt  1J4  cupfuls  rich  milk 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  2  eggs,  beaten  separately 

Sift  all  the  dry  ingredients  together;  add  the  rice,  Crisco  and  beaten  yolks  with 
the  milk  and  mix  all  together;  beat  in  the  whites.  Bake  at  once  on  hot  well- 
Criscoed  waffle  iron. 

CRUST  FOR  MEAT  PIE 

1  cupful  barley  flour  3^  teaspoonful  salt 

3/2  cupful  rice  flour  3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  milk  for  soft  dough 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together;  cut  in  the  Crisco,  and  add  milk  gradually.  Toss 
on  floured  board,  and  roll  to  fit  the  dish.  Cut  slits  at  the  center,  and  set  in  place 
over  the  meat.    Bake  about  20  minutes. 


Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


THICK  INDIAN  PANCAKES 

2  cupfuls  corn  meal  3  eggs,  beaten  light 

%  teaspoonful  salt  cupful  flour 

1  tablespoonful  Crisco  milk  if  needed 

boiling  water  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

Pour  enough  boiling  water  (about  2^  cupfuls)  over  the  corn  meal,  salt,  and 
Crisco  to  scald  the  meal;  cover  the  bowl  and  set  aside  until  the  next  morning. 
Add  the  eggs  and  flour,  also  milk,  if  the  mixture  seems  too  thick,  and  beat  all 
together;  lastly,  sift  in  the  baking  powder  and  beat  again.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of 
Crisco  in  a  cloth  and  with  it  rub  over  the  inner  surface  of  a  hot  frying  pan,  drop 
the  batter  by  spoonfuls  into  the  spider,  let  cook  slowly  three  or  four  minutes,  then 
turn  and  cook  the  other  side.    Send  at  once  to  the  table. 

WAR  TIME  PHILADELPHIA  BUTTER  BUNS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  grated  rind  1  lemon 

34  cupful  lukewarm  water  134  cupfuls  rice  or  white  corn  flour 

1  cupful  scalded  milk  Y2  cupful  (about)  wheat  flour 
13^2  cupfuls  wheat  flour  3  tablespoonfuls  creamed  Crisco 

2  tablespoonfuls  honey  %  cupful  brown  sugar 
34  cupful  melted  Crisco   

2  egg  yolks  1  tablespoonful  cinnamon 

1  teaspoonful  salt  Y2  cupful  small  raisins 

Make  a  sponge  of  the  first  four  ingredients;  when  light,  add  the  honey,  Crisco, 
yolks,  salt,  lemon  rind,  and  flour,  and  mix  to  a  dough.  Knead  until  smooth  and 
elastic.  Cover  close  and  set  aside  to  become  doubled  in  bulk.  Turn  on  a  board 
without  disturbing  the  dough  more  than  is  necessary.  Roll  into  a  thin  rectangular 
sheet;  spread  with  part  of  the  creamed  Crisco,  dredge  on  one  or  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  the  sugar  and  the  cinnamon;  sprinkle  on  the  currants  and  roll  as  a  jelly  roll. 
Cut  into  pieces  about  an  inch  and  a  quarter  long.  Put  the  rest  of  the  Crisco  into 
a  pan  7  x  10  inches;  sprinkle  in  the  rest  of  the  brown  sugar;  set  the  buns  on  the 
sugar  and  let  become  light.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Turn  upside  down  to 
cool.   These  are  good  reheated. 

OAT  BANNOCK 

23^2  cupfuls  rolled  oats  1  tablespoonful  Crisco 

1  teaspoonful  salt  %  cupful  lukewarm  water  (about) 

Add  the  salt  to  the  oats;  melt  the  Crisco  in  the  water  and  use  to  mix  the  oats 
to  a  dough.  Divide  into  four  pieces.  Knead  each  piece,  then  roll  into  a  round  as 
thin  as  possible.  Lift  the  dough  occasionally  with  a  spatula  while  shaping;  it 
may  thus  be  rolled  more  easily.  Dredge  the  board  with  flour  or  dry  oatmeal. 
Bake  about  30  minutes.  Good  with  salads,  cheese,  stewed  prunes,  or  at  any  time 
in  place  of  bread. 

COOKED-RICE- AND-CORN-MEAL  TEA  CAKE 

1  cupful  yellow  corn  meal  2  cupfuls  cooked  rice,  grains  distinct 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  2  eggs,  beaten  light 
}/2  teaspoonful  salt  %  cupful  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

Sift  together  the  first  four  ingredients;  mix  in  the  rice  lightly;  add  the  eggs, 
milk,  and  Crisco;  mix  thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  shallow  Criscoed  pan.  Bake  about 
25  minutes. 

27 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


POTATO-AND-BARLEY  DOUGHNUTS 

V/i  cupfuls  barley  flour 

1  cupful  wheat  flour 
Yi  teaspoonful  salt 
Y2  teaspoonful  mace 
3^  teaspoonful  soda 

2  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Pass  all  the  dry  ingredients  through  the  sieve  together.  Beat  the  egg  and 
yolk,  beat  in  the  sugar,  potato,  Crisco,  and  buttermilk  and  stir  into  the  dry  ingredi- 
ents. Knead  a  little  of  the  dough  at  a  time,  pat  and  roll  into  a  sheet,  cut  in  rings 
and  fry  in  deep  Crisco.    This  makes  about  two  dozen  doughnuts. 


1  egg  and  1  yolk 
3^  cupful  sugar 

cupful  mashed  potatoes 
1  teaspoonful  melted  Crisco 
Y%  cupful  sour  milk  or  buttermilk 


28 


BARLEY  NUT  DOUGHNUTS 

34  cupful  honey  1  teaspoonful  salt 

34  cupful  corn  syrup  Y  teaspoonful  ground  nutmeg 

1  egg  34  cupful  chopped  nuts 

%  cupful  buttermilk  1  tablespoonful  melted  Crisco 

33^2  cupfuls  barley  flour  Y2  teaspoonful  soda 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Cream  together  the  melted  Crisco,  honey  and  syrup.  Add  the  egg  beaten  very 
light,  and  the  buttermilk  mixed  with  the  soda.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly 
and  add  to  the  mixture.  Lastly,  add  the  chopped  nuts.  Roll  out  on  a  floured 
board  to  one-quarter  inch  thickness.  Cut  with  a  doughnut  cutter  and  fry  in 
Crisco  until  a  golden  brown.  If  you  use  a  thermometer,  the  temperature  should 
be  360°  F.    Raisins,  currants,  figs,  or  dates  may  be  used  to  vary  the  recipe. 

LENTEN  FRITTERS 

2  cupfuls  hot  milk  34  cupful  sugar 
Y2  cupful  fine  corn  meal  2  egg  yolks 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt  grated  rind  1  lemon  or  orange 

Sift  together  the  corn  meal,  salt,  and  sugar,  then  stir  vigorously  while  gradu- 
ally sprinkling  into  the  hot  milk;  continue  to  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens,  then 
cover  and  let  cook  one  hour  or  longer,  stirring  occasionally;  add  a  little  of  the  hot 
mush  to  the  yolks  and  grated  rind,  mix  and  stir  into  the  rest  of  the  hot  mixture; 
beat  thoroughly,  then  cover  and  let  cook  about  two  minutes.  Turn  into  a  Cris- 
coed  shallow  pan  to  make  a  sheet  half  an  inch  deep.  When  cold,  cut  into  rings 
with  a  doughnut  cutter;  dip  the  rings  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  Crisco;  drain  on  soft 
paper,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  at  once. 

PRUNE  BREAKFAST  CAKE 

V/2  cupfuls  fine  oat  flour  3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

3^2  cupful  rice  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  Y2  cupful  milk  (about) 

54  teaspoonful  salt  Y  lb-  cooked  prunes 

Rub  over  a  baking  dish  with  Crisco,  turn  into  it  the  prunes  from  which  the 
stones  have  been  taken;  add  the  juice,  which  should  be  well  reduced  in  cooking. 
Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt,  and  cut  in  the  Crisco;  add  the 
milk  to  the  egg  and  use  in  mixing  the  dry  ingredients  to  a  soft  dough.  Spread 
the  dough  over  the  prunes.  Bake  about  25  minutes.  Serve,  cut  in  squares, 
with  sugar  and  cream  or  butter.  The  egg  may  be  omitted  by  using  a  little  more 
milk.  Barley  flour  may  replace  the  rice  flour.  Apricots,  apples,  and  other  fruit 
may  be  used  in  the  same  manner. 

CORN  CRUST 

2  cupfuls  corn  meal  1  teaspoonful  sugar 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  2  cupfuls  boiling  water 

\Yi  teaspoonfuls  salt  1  egg,  beaten  light 

Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  first  four  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly;  beat 
in  the  egg.  Spread  thin  in  small  well-Criscoed  biscuit  pans.  Smooth  with  a  knife 
wet  in  cold  water.  Score  for  cutting  or  breaking  into  portions.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven  about  10  minutes,  or  until  delicately  browned.  These  burn  easily  and  must 
be  watched  while  cooking. 

29 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


WAFFLES 


}/2  cupful  corn  flour  2  egg  yolks 

1  cupful  pastry  flour  1  cupful  thin  cream 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  %  cupful  sweet  milk 

%  teaspoonful  salt  3^2  cupful  melted  Crisco 

3  egg  whites 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  beat  the  yolks,  add  the  cream 
and  milk  and  stir  into  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  Crisco  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
dry  and  beat  all  together  thoroughly.  Bake  at  once  on  a  hot  well-Criscoed  waffle 
iron. 


30 


CORN  MEAL  STICKS 


1  cupful  corn  meal  3^  cupful  hot  cooked  hominy 
%  cupful  oat  or  barley  flour  cupful  Crisco 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  cupful  milk 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt  1  egg,  well  beaten 

Sift  together  the  meal,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  melt  the  Crisco  in  the 
hominy,  add  the  milk  and  egg.  Turn  into  well-Criscoed  bread  stick  pans.  Bake 
about  20  minutes. 

OTHER  CORN  MEAL  STICKS 

Southern  corn  pone  or  any  of  the  corn  muffin  recipes  may  be  baked  in  bread 
stick  pans. 

SOUTHERN  CORN  PONE 

2  cupfuls  scalded  milk  3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 
1  cupful  Indian  meal  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

1  teaspoonful  salt  l1^  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Pour  the  hot  milk  gradually  over  the  meal,  salt,  and  Crisco,  stirring  constantly 
meanwhile;  let  cool  a  little,  then  beat  in  the  eggs  and  the  baking  powder.  Turn 
into  a  Criscoed  baking  dish.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  35  minutes. 


JOHNNYCAKE 

\l/2  cupfuls  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

}/2  cupful  corn  meal  1  tablespoonful  melted  Crisco 

teaspoonful  salt  1  egg 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  cupful  milk 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  melted  Crisco,  then  egg  and  milk.  Mix  well 
and  bake  in  a  well-Criscoed  pan  in  a  hot  oven.  Time  depends  upon  thickness  of 
loaf. 

BARLEY-AND-CORN-MEAL  STICKS 

%  cupful  barley  flour  1  teaspoonful  salt 

%  cupful  corn  meal  2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  egg,  beaten  light 

cupful  milk 

Mix  and  sift  together  the  dry  ingredients;  cut  in  the  Crisco.  Add  the  egg  and 
milk  and  mix.  Turn  the  ingredients  on  a  board;  shape  into  small  oblong  rolls. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  20  minutes. 


31 


Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredient 


CHEESE  BISCUIT 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  1  cupful  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  134  cupfuls  grated  cheese 

34  teaspoonful  salt  1  egg,  beaten  light 

34  teaspoonful  paprika  baking  powder  biscuit 

34  teaspoonful  mustard  paprika 
Melt  the  Crisco,  add  the  flour,  salt,  paprika,  and  mustard,  and  stir  and  cook  till 
frothy;  add  the  milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  beat  in  the  cheese,  then  the  egg,  stir 
over  boiling  water  until  the  egg  is  "set,"  then  turn  into  an  earthen  bowl  and  set 
aside,  covered,  until  ready  to  use.  Have  ready  fresh-made  or  reheated  baking 
powder  biscuits  —  barley  and  rice  flour  are  suitable  (see  recipe  page  24).  Split 
the  biscuit,  set  them  in  a  baking  pan,  and  above  each  dispose  a  spoonful  of  the 
cold  cheese  mixture;  sprinkle  the  cheese  with  paprika  and  set  into  the  oven  long 
enough  to  reheat.  The  cheese  mixture  may  also  be  served  at  once  by  pouring  it 
while  hot  over  ordinary  crackers  made  hot  in  the  oven. 


TOMATO  AND  CHEESE  FRITTERS 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  6  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch 

Y2  onion,  sliced  Y2  cupful  cold  water 

2  branches  parsley  Yi  teaspoonful  salt 

Y2  a  green  pepper,  shredded  Y2  teaspoonful  paprika 

2  cupfuls  tomato  1  cupful  grated  cheese 

Melt  the  Crisco,  in  it  stir  and  cook  the  onion,  parsley  and  green  pepper  until 
softened  and  yellowed;  add  the  tomato  and  let  simmer  15  minutes;  strain  and  heat 
to  the  boiling  point  (there  should  be  V/2  cupfuls  of  tomato);  stir  the  cornstarch  with 
the  cold  water,  pour  into  the  hot  tomato  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  set  over  boiling 
water  and  let  cook  20  minutes;  add  the  salt,  paprika,  and  cheese  and  stir  until  the 
cheese  is  melted.  Turn  into  a  shallow  Criscoed  dish.  When  cold,  turn  on  aboard 
or  paper,  cut  in  figures;  egg  and  bread-crumb;  fry  in  hot  Crisco. 

GNOCCHI  A  LA  ROMANIE 

2  cupfuls  milk  teaspoonful  paprika 

34  cupful  corn  flour  or  meal  3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

34  cupful  barley  or  oat  flour  2  egg  yolks 

Yi  teaspoonful  salt  1  to  2  cupfuls  grated  cheese 

Take  part  of  the  milk  and  use  in  mixing  the  flour,  meal,  salt  and  paprika  to  a 
thin  consistency.  Scald  the  rest  of  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  stir  and  cook  the 
flour  in  the  hot  milk  until  the  mixture  thickens;  cover  and  let  cook  20  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally.  Beat  the  Crisco  to  a  cream,  beat  in  the  yolks  one  after  the 
other  and  stir  into  the  hot  mixture.  Cover  and  let  cook  until  the  egg  is  "set," 
then  beat  in  half  the  cheese.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  Criscoed  biscuit  pan  to  make 
a  layer  half  an  inch  thick.  When  cold,  turn  from  the  pan;  cut  in  squares  or  rounds; 
set  in  layers  in  a  Criscoed  baking  dish  with  cheese  between  and  above.  \\  hen 
ready  to  serve,  reheat  in  the  oven.   Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 

32 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CHEESE  AND  CORN  CAKE  SOUFFLE 


2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  %  cupful  milk 

1  tablespoonful  corn  flour  Y2  cupful  fine  corn  bread  crumbs 

34  teaspoonful  soda  1  cupful  grated  cheese 

34  teaspoonful  paprika  3  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

34  teaspoonful  salt  3  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 

Melt  the  Crisco;  in  it  cook  the  corn  flour,  soda,  paprika,  and  salt;  add  the  milk 
and  stir  until  smooth  and  boiling;  add  the  crumbs,  cheese,  and  yolks;  fold  in  the 
whites;  bake  in  a  Criscoed  dish  standing  in  hot  water  until  firm  in  the  center  (about 
25  minutes).    Serve  at  once. 

CHEESE  RAMEKINS 

1  cupful  corn  cake  crumbs  34  pound  grated  or  sliced  cheese 
Yi  teaspoonful  salt                              2  eggs,  beaten  light 

Yi  teaspoonful  paprika  2  cupfuls  milk 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together,  turn  into  Criscoed  ramekins  (one  dish  may  be 
used)  and  let  bake  until  firm  in  the  center.  •  Serve  hot  with  green  vegetables  or 
stewed  fruit. 

CHEESE  TIMBALES 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  Y  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  Y2  teaspoonful  paprika 

1  cupful  rich  milk  3  whole  eggs 

Y2  pound  grated  cheese  3  egg  yolks 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  Crisco,  flour  and  milk,  stir  in  the  other  ingredients.  Bake 
in  Criscoed  timbale  molds  till  firm  throughout.  Serve  hot,  turned  from  the  molds, 
with  tomato  sauce. 

TOMATO  RABBIT 

1  tablespoonful  Crisco  34  teaspoonful  paprika 
Y2  pound  cheese  34  teaspoonful  soda 
34  teaspoonful  salt                             2  egg  yolks 

Yl  cupful  tomato  puree 
Melt  the  Crisco,  turn  the  dish  to  allow  the  fat  to  run  over  the  whole  inside  sur- 
face, add  the  cheese,  salt,  paprika,  and  soda,  and  stir  constantly  while  cooking  over 
boiling  water  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Add  the  yolks,  beaten  and  mixed  with 
the  puree  and  stir  until  the  whole  is  thick  and  smooth.  Serve  on  the  untoasted 
side  of  bread  toasted  upon  but  one  side. 

CHEESE  SAUCE 

For  rice,  onions,  asparagus,  potatoes,  fish 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  1  egg  yolk,  well  beaten 
1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  34  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  milk,  or  34  teaspoonful  paprika 

Y2  cupful  milk,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese 
Y  cupful  water  in  which  vege- 
table or  fish  was  cooked 

Melt  the  Crisco,  add  the  cornstarch,  stir  until  blended  and  bubbling;  add  the 
liquid  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  salt,  paprika  and  cheese. 

33 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CORN  BREAD  CREAM  TOAST  WITH  CHEESE 

4  slices  Boston  Brown  or  other  cupful  grated  cheese 

corn  bread 

ONE  CUPFUL  CREAM  SAUCE 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  34  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  1  cupful  milk 

Stir  the  cheese  in  the  hot  sauce.  Toast  the  bread.  Dip  the  edges  of  each  slice 
of  toast,  one  at  a  time,  in  boiling  salted  water,  set  into  the  sauce,  cover  with  sauce 
and  lift  to  a  hot  dish.  Tomato  sauce  may  be  used  in  place  of  cream  sauce,  or  the 
cheese  sauce  given  on  page  33  may  be  used. 

CHEESE  AND  RICE  FRITTERS 

34  cupful  rice  34  teaspoonful  paprika 

}/2  cupful  boiling  water  3^  cupful  grated  cheese 

3^2  cupful  tomato  puree  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

34  teaspoonful  salt  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

Bring  the  rice  to  the  boiling  point  in  a  quantity  of  cold  water;  let  cook  three 
minutes  and  drain;  rinse  in  cold  water  and  drain  again.  Set  to  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  in  the  water  and  puree;  add  the  salt  and  pepper  and  let  cook  until  tender. 
To  one  cupful  of  this  rice,  add  the  cheese  and  flour  mixed  with  the  baking  powder. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  Crisco  and  let  cook  to  a  golden  color;  drain  on  soft 
paper  and  serve  at  once.  If  the  rice  be  too  dry,  add  a  tablespoonful  or  more  of 
broth;  if  too  soft,  a  tablespoonful  or  more  of  flour.  No  perceptible  fat  should  be 
absorbed  in  frying  and  the  fritters  should  hold  their  shape. 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  34  teaspoonful  salt 

1  tablespoonful  flour  1  cupful  milk 

34  teaspoonful  soda  Y2  cupful  fine,  soft  bread  crumbs 

34  teaspoonful  mustard  3^  pound  cheese,  cut  in  thin  slices 

34  teaspoonful  paprika  3  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

Melt  the  Crisco;  in  it  cook  the  flour,  soda,  mustard,  paprika,  and  salt;  add  the 
milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  set  the  sauce  into  a  dish  of  hot  water;  add  the  crumbs 
and  cheese  and  stir  until  the  cheese  is  melted  and  the  mixture  is  smooth;  beat  in 
the  egg  yolks  and  stir  until  the  egg  is  set.  Serve  on  crackers  or  on  the  untoasted 
side  of  bread  toasted  on  but  one  side. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  34  teaspoonful  cayenne 
2  tablespoonfuls  flour  3^  cupful  milk 

34  teaspoonful  salt  1  cupful  grated  cheese  (half  pound) 

34  teaspoonful  soda  3  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

34  teaspoonful  mustard  3  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 

Melt  the  Crisco,  in  it  cook  the  flour,  salt,  soda,  mustard,  and  cayenne;  add  the 
milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  cheese  and  egg  yolks;  fold  in  the  whites  and 
turn  into  a  Criscoed  baking  dish.  Set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  (on  many 
folds  of  paper  or  cloth)  and  let  bake  until  well  puffed  and  firm  in  the  center.  The 
water  should  not  boil  during  the  cooking.    Serve  at  once. 

34 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CHEESE  CROQUETTES 


3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

3^  cupful  flour 

34  teaspoonful  salt 

34  teaspoonful  paprika 

%  cupful  milk 

1  egg  or  2  egg  yolks 


1  cupful  cheese  in  cubes 
]/2  cupful  grated  cheese 


soft  sifted  bread  crumbs 
1  egg 

3  tablespoonfuls  milk 


Crisco  for  frying 


Melt  the  Crisco;  in  it  cook  the  flour  and  seasonings;  add  the  milk  and  stir  un- 
til boiling;  beat  in  the  egg  beaten  light  and  let  cook  until  the  egg  is  "set;"  stir 
in  the  cheese  and  turn  on  a  Criscoed  plate;  when  chilled  a  little  form  into  cyl- 
inder shapes;  roll  in  crumbs,  cover  with  egg  and  again  roll  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot 
Crisco.    Serve  at  once  with  a  green  salad  and  coarse  bread. 


35 


FRIED  FILETS  OF  FISH 


Halibut,  flounder,  and  bass  are  particularly  good  cooked  in  this  way.  The  fish 
must  be  free  of  bones  and  skin  and  the  filets  should  be  of  the  same  shape  and  size. 
Rub  the  filets  with  the  cut  side  of  an  onion  and  dip  them  in  melted  Crisco  and 
lemon  juice,  to  which  onion  juice  has  been  added.  Drain,  roll  in  flour,  then  in  egg 
and  soft  sifted  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  Crisco.  It  will  take  about  six  min- 
utes to  cook  the  filets.  Drain  on  soft  paper.  Serve  with  highly  seasoned  tomato 
sauce,  or  Crisco  salad  dressing. 


TWO  CUPFULS  TOMATO  SAUCE 

}/2  can  tomato  34  cupful  Crisco 

}/2  an  onion  with  2  cloves  in  it  34  cupful  flour 

1  stalk  celery  %  teaspoonful  salt 

2  sprigs  parsley  teaspoonful  paprika 
1  bit  of  ham  or  bacon  1  cupful  broth 

34  a  green  or  red  pepper  1  cupful  tomato  puree 

Cook  the  tomato,  vegetables,  and  ham  about  20  minutes,  then  press  through  a 
puree  sieve,  and  set  aside  for  use  as  needed.  Melt  the  Crisco;  in  it  cook  the  flour, 
salt,  and  paprika;  add  the  cold  broth  and  mix  a  little;  add  the  tomato  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  smooth  and  boiling.  The  sauce  may  be  made  of  puree  without  broth, 
or,  it  may  be  made  with  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  broth  and  half  a  cupful  of  chili  sauce 
or  tomato  catsuo. 

BROILED  MACKEREL 

The  fire  should  be  moderate.  The  broiler  should  be  hot  before  the  fish  is  set  in 
place  or  it  will  stick  to  the  wires.  Wipe  the  fish  with  a  damp  and  then  a  dry  cloth, 
and  brush  over  both  sides  of  the  fish  with  melted  Crisco,  then  set  it  on  or  in  the 
hot  broiler.  Cook  principally  on  the  flesh  side  of  the  fish,  making  the  skin  crisp 
and  slightly  brown  at  the  last.  A  mackerel  will  take  nearly  25  minutes  to  cook. 
Set  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish.  Have  ready  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Crisco,  beaten  to 
a  cream;  beat  in  one-third  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of 
paprika  and  drop  by  drop  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.  Spread  this  over 
the  fish.   Sprinkle  with  fine-chopped  parsley.   Serve  at  once. 


HADDOCK  OR  COD  BAKED  WITH  TOMATO 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  a  three-  or  four-pound  fish;  cut  the  flesh  in 
long  pieces  suitable  for  one  service;  fold  the  pieces  of  fish  to  increase  the  thickness; 
hold  each  piece  as  folded  with  a  wooden  toothpick  dipped  in  melted  Crisco  (to 
facilitate  its  removal  after  cooking).  Rub  over  the  inside  of  the  baking  dish  (one 
suitable  for  serving)  with  Crisco;  set  in  it  the  prepared  fish;  pour  over  the  fish 
about  a  cupful  of  tomato  puree;  lay  on  each  piece  of  fish  a  thin  slice  of  onion; 
sprinkle  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  let  cook  in  the  oven  about  25  minutes.  Re- 
move the  onion  and  pour  on  half  a  cup  of  thin  cream,  scalded.  Serve  in  the  baking 
dish. 

36 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


FINNAN  HADDIE  BALLS 


2  cupfuls  raw  potatoes  (pared 


and  cut  in  quarters) 
1  cupful  finnan  haddie  (in  bits) 
teaspoonful  pepper 


Y2  teaspoonful  salt 
1  egg,  beaten  light 
10  slices  bacon 
Crisco  for  frying 


Put  the  potatoes  in  a  saucepan,  pour  in  boiling  water  to  nearly  cover  the  pota- 
toes; above  and  at  the  center  of  the  potatoes  set  the  finnan  haddie,  cover  and 
let  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  tender.  Drain  the  water  from  the  dish,  shake  the 
fish  from  the  potatoes  and  press  the  latter  through  a  ricer  and  return  to  the  fish; 
add  the  pepper  and  salt  as  needed  and  mix;  add  a  little  of  the  mixture  to  the  egg, 
blend  thoroughly  and  beat  into  the  rest  of  the  mixture.  Press  the  mixture,  lightly, 
into  balls.  Fry,  five  at  a  time,  in  Crisco  hot  enough  to  turn  a  bread  crumb  golden 
brown  in  40  seconds.  Serve  with  piccalilli  in  lemon  cups  and  bacon  rolls.  Roll 
each  slice  of  bacon  like  a  jelly  roll,  push  a  wooden  toothpick  through  each  to  hold 
it  in  shape  and  fry  in  the  Crisco  before  the  fish  balls  are  fried;  remove  the  tooth- 
pick before  serving. 


37 


BASS  OR  OTHER  FRESH-WATER  FISH  BAKED  IN  MILK 


Remove  skin  and  bone  from  the  fish  and  cut  the  fish  in  pieces  for  serving.  Scrape 
onion  pulp  over  the  pieces  of  fish,  also  squeeze  on  a  little  lemon  juice  and  let  stand 
in  a  cool  place  an  hour  or  longer.  Rub  over  a  baking  dish  with  Crisco;  set  in  the 
pieces  of  fish  and  pour  on  milk  to  half  their  height.  Let  cook  in  the  oven  about  20 
minutes,  basting  with  the  milk  three  times.  Beat  a  tablespoonful  of  Crisco  to  a 
cream;  beat  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  fine-chopped  parsley.  Lift  out  the  fish  and  keep  it  hot;  stir  the  flour  mixture 
into  the  milk  and  let  simmer  ten  minutes;  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  diluted 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  and  pour  over  the  fish.  Halibut  and  flounder  are 
good  cooked  this  way. 

SWORDFISH  OR  HALIBUT  SAUTE 

A  slice  of  halibut  or  swordfish  weighing  about  one  pound  and  a  quarter  will  serve 
four  people.  Cut  the  swordfish  into  four  or  six  pieces.  If  the  frying  pan  is  of  a 
size  to  take  the  slice  of  halibut  without  crowding  it,  leave  it  whole.  Wipe  the  fish 
with  a  damp  cloth,  then  pat  it  in  corn  meal  or  flour,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on 
the  other.  Have  ready  on  the  fire  a  frying  pan  in  which  about  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  Crisco  is  melted;  lay  in  the  prepared  fish,  let  cook  until  well  browned  next  the 
pan,  turn  with  a  fork  and  spatula  to  brown  the  other  side.  Do  not  let  the  fish 
cook  too  fast,  cooking  at  a  high  temperature  toughens  the  fiber.  After  the  first 
side  is  cooked,  the  cooking  may  be  completed  in  the  oven.  Remove  to  a  hot  dish. 
Garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley.  Serve  with  mashed  or  creamed  potato  and  a 
green  salad.   Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  the  fish  after  it  is  cooked. 

BAKED  FISH,  PARSLEY  AND  POTATOES 

Rub  over  a  baking  dish  with  Crisco;  in  it  set  a  thick  slice,  or  a  solid  filet,  of  fresh 
fish.  Scrape  on  a  little  onion  juice,  if  approved,  add  also  a  few  slices  of  green  pep- 
per. Make  broth  with  the  trimmings  of  the  fish,  a  slice  of  onion  and  piece  of 
carrot.  Pour  a  little  broth  over  the  fish  and  let  cook  in  the  oven  about  20  minutes, 
basting  with  the  broth  three  times.  Pour  off  the  broth  (add  enough  more  to  make 
two  cupfuls);  thicken  it  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Crisco  creamed  with  one- 
fourth  a  cupful  of  barley  or  rye  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pep- 
per. Meanwhile  cook  one  pint  of  potatoes,  in  cubes,  in  boiling  salted  water;  drain, 
season  with  salt  and  chopped  parsley  and  turn  around  the  fish,  set  on  a  hot  dish. 
Serve  the  sauce  in  a  bowl. 

FISH  AND  POTATO  SOUFFLE 

1  cupful  mashed  potato  ^2  teaspoonful  black  pepper 

1  cupful  cream  or  rich  milk  3  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

1  teaspoonful  scraped  onion  pulp  2  cupfuls  cooked  fish  in  fine  shreds 

1  teaspoonful  salt  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley 

3  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 
To  the  potato,  add  the  milk,  seasonings,  yolks,  fish  and  parsley  in  order  enu- 
merated; fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs.    Bake  in  a  Criscoed  baking  dish  standing 
in  hot  water  until  well  puffed  at  the  center.    Serve  with  cream  or  tomato  sauce 
or  stewed  tomato. 

38 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


LITTLE  FISH  PIES 


Use  left-over  fish,  boiled  fish  is  good  as  there  is  fish  broth  (water  in  which  fish 
was  cooked).  Slice  half  an  onion  and  stir  and  cook  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  Crisco  until  softened  and  yellowed;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  or 
half  the  quantity  of  cornstarch  and  stir  until  frothy;  add  one  cupful  of  fish  broth  and 
half  a  cupful  of  milk  from  the  top  of  the  bottle  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  two  cupfuls 
of  fish  separated  into  flakes  and  let  become  hot.  Have  ready  baking  powder  biscuit 
(barley  and  rice  flour)  just  from  the  oven.  Turn  the  fish  into  individual  ramekins 
(made  hot  in  boiling  water  and  wiped  dry);  set  a  biscuit  above  the  fish  in  each. 
Chicken  may  be  served  in  the  same  manner.  The  biscuit  dough  should  be  rolled 
thin. 

LITTLE  FISH  PIES,  COTTAGE  STYLE 

After  the  fish  is  in  the  ramekins,  pipe  hot  well-seasoned  mashed  potato  over  the 
fish,  brush  the  edges  of  the  piping  with  melted  Crisco,  and  set  into  a  hot  oven  to 
brown  the  edges  of  the  potato.  If  piping  be  considered  too  troublesome,  spread  the 
potato  over  the  fish  with  a  silver-plated  knife. 

FILETS  OF  FISH,  FLORENTINE  STYLE 

Use  filets  from  any  variety  of  white  fish;  halibut  and  flounder  are  a  good  selec- 
tion. To  serve  four  persons,  use  four  pieces  weighing  about  six  ounces  each.  Cover 
the  bones  and  trimmings  of  the  fish,  a  few  slices  of  carrot  and  onion,  three  or  four 
leaves  of  sweet  basil  and  two  or  three  branches  of  parsley,  with  cold  water,  and  let 
simmer  20  minutes,  then  strain  off  the  fish  stock.  Rub  a  baking  dish  with  Crisco, 
and  set  the  fish  in  it,  pour  over  about  half  a  cupful  of  the  fish  stock,  and  three 
or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  from  a  bottle  of  mushrooms  or  the  water  in  which 
dried  mushrooms  have  been  soaked.  Let  cook  in  the  oven  about  ten  minutes. 
Drain  the  liquid  from  the  fish,  use  three-fourths  a  cupful  of  it  with  three-fourths 
a  cupful  of  rich  milk  in  making  bechamel  sauce.  The  other  ingredients  are 
three  tablespoonfuls,  each,  Crisco  and  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-fourth 
a  teaspoonful  of  paprika.  Into  the  sauce  stir  half  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese. 
Have  ready,  cooked,  two  or  three  quarts  of  spinach,  chop  it  fine  and  season  as  for 
the  table;  spread  the  spinach  neatly  over  the  fish,  cover  the  spinach  with  part  of 
the  sauce;  over  the  sauce  sprinkle  one-half  a  cupful  of  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  Crisco,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  ten  minutes. 


BAKED  SHAD  ROE 

1  pair  shad  roe  3  cloves 

1  pint  cooked  tomatoes  2  branches  parsley 

}/2  teaspoonful  salt  2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  onion  1  tablespoonful  flour 

Simmer  the  roe  in  boiling  water  until  tender.  Cook  the  tomatoes,  salt,  onion, 
cloves,  and  parsley  20  minutes,  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire, 
and,  when  boiling,  stir  into  it  the  Crisco  creamed  and  mixed  with  the  flour.  Place 
the  roe  in  a  Criscoed  baking  dish,  pour  over  each  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  tomato,  and  bake  about  45  minutes,  basting  several  times  with  the  sauce. 
Serve  with  the  remainder  of  the  sauce.  Other  fish  roe  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way. 

39 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 


34  cupful  Crisco 

Y2  cupful  barley  flour,  or 

34  cupful  cornstarch 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt 

3^  teaspoonful  black  pepper 

1  cupful  chicken  broth 

3^$  cupful  cream 


cubes) 
2  eggs,  beaten 
34  cupful  milk 
soft  sifted  bread  crumbs 
Crisco 


1  egg,  beaten  light 
13^  cupfuls  cooked  chicken  (in 


Melt  the  Crisco;  add  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  stir  until  bubbling  through- 
out; add  the  broth  and  cream  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  egg  and  continue  to 
stir  and  cook  without  boiling  until  the  mixture  separates  a  little  from  the  sauce- 
pan; add  the  chicken,  mix  and  turn  onto  a  plate.  When  cold,  shape,  roll  in  the 
crumbs,  cover  with  the  eggs  mixed  with  the  milk,  and  again  roll  in  the  crumbs. 
When  all  are  ready  remove  superfluous  crumbs  and  fry  in  Crisco  heated  until  a 
soft  bread  crumb  dropped  into  it  will  brown  in  40  seconds.  Drain  on  soft  paper. 
Serve  at  once  with  green  peas  or  asparagus  tips. 


40 


I 


HOW  TO  COOK  A  FOWL 

Have  the  fowl  separated  into  pieces  at  the  joints.  Wash  quickly  and  set  over 
the  fire  in  boiling  water  to  cover;  let  boil  rapidly  five  minutes,  then  let  simmer  until 
the  flesh  is  tender.  A  fowl  one  year  old  should  cook  in  two  to  three  hours.  When 
tender,  skim  from  the  broth.  Melt  one-fourth  a  cupful  of  Crisco  in  an  iron  frying 
pan;  add  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Roll  each  joint  of  chicken  in  corn  flour 
and  set  to  cook  in  the  hot  Crisco.  When  delicately  browned  on  one  side,  turn  to 
brown  the  other  side.  Serve  with  mashed  potato  and  Virginia  spoon  corn  bread. 
Thicken  the  broth  to  serve  with  the  bread  and  potato. 

CHICKEN  POT  PIE  WITH  DUMPLINGS 

Singe,  clean,  separate  into  joints,  and  wash  a  fowl  or  chicken.  Cover  with  cold 
water  and  let  heat  quickly  to  the  boiling  point.  Let  boil  five  minutes,  then  cook 
at  a  gentle  simmer  until  the  chicken  is  tender.  A  young  chicken  will  cook  in  one 
hour  and  a  half;  it  may  take  four  hours  for  an  older  fowl.  Have  ready  dumpling 
dough.  Remove  some  of  the  broth  from  the  saucepan.  Scrape  the  dough  from  a 
tablespoon  into  the  saucepan,  letting  it  rest  on  the  chicken  above  the  broth.  Cover 
and  let  cook  undisturbed  15  minutes. 

DUMPLINGS 

13^2  cupfuls  oat  or  barley  flour  3^  teaspoonful  salt 

¥2  cupful  rice  flour  23^  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  egg,  beaten  light 

%  cupful  milk  (about) 

Pass  all  the  dry  ingredients,  together,  through  a  sieve;  cut  in  the  shortening;  add 
part  of  the  milk  to  the  egg  and  use  in  mixing  to  a  soft  dough;  a  little  less  or  more 
milk  than  the  quantity  given  may  be  needed.  The  egg  may  be  omitted,  but  its 
use  insures  better  dumplings.  While  the  dumplings  are  cooking,  thicken  the 
broth  removed  from  the  saucepan.  Set  the  chicken  on  a  hot  platter,  the  dump- 
lings around  it,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  whole. 

MARYLAND  CHICKEN 

Singe,  clean,  and  cut  up  one  or  two  young  chickens,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, roll  in  flour,  then  in  an  egg,  beaten  and  diluted  with  half  a  cupful  of  milk, 
and,  finally,  coat  with  soft  crumbs.  Rub  over  the  inner  surface  of  a  dripping  pan 
with  Crisco;  in  it  bake  the  chicken  about  half  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  When  the 
chicken  is  hardened  a  little  on  the  outside,  baste  with  half  a  cupful  of  Crisco  melted 
with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Baste  with  the  Crisco  each  five  minutes  thereafter. 
When  tender,  remove  the  chicken  to  a  serving  dish  and  use  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  hot  Crisco  in  making  two  cupfuls  of  cream  sauce.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the 
chicken  in  the  dish. 

41 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


INDIVIDUAL  CHICKEN  SHORTCAKES 


\}/2  cupfuls  barley  flour 
}/2  cupful  rice  flour 
4  level  teaspoonfuls  baking 

powder 
}/2  teaspoonful  salt 
34  to  3^$  cupful  Crisco 
%  cupful  milk  (about) 
V/2  tabiespoonfuls  lime  water 

Make  biscuit  of  the  ingredients  in  the  first  column,  cut  them  about  three  inches 
in  diameter.  Melt  the  Crisco;  in  it  cook  the  flour  and  seasonings;  add  the  broth, 
stir  until  boiling  and  add  the  chicken.  Split  the  biscuit,  spread  with  butter  or 
butter  substitute  and  dispose  chicken  in  sauce  over  the  lower  halves  of  the  bis- 
cuits; set  the  other  halves  above,  and  pour  over  the  rest  of  the  chicken. 


34  cupful  Crisco 

34  cupful  flour 

3^2  teaspoonful  salt 

34  teaspoonful  pepper 

2  cupfuls  chicken  broth 

2  cupfuls  cooked  chicken  (in  cubes) 


4-2 


CHICKEN  PILAU 

%  cupful  rice  2  branches  parsley 

cupful  Crisco  1  onion  with  3  cloves  pressed 

3  cupfuls  chicken  broth  or  into  it 

boiling  water  1  teaspoonful  salt 

3  peeled  tomatoes,  or  2  cupfuls  cooked  chicken  in 

%  cupful  canned  tomatoes  thin  slices 

Blanch  the  rice.  Melt  the  Crisco  in  a  saucepan;  add  the  rice  and  stir  and  cook 
until  the  Crisco  is  absorbed.  Add  the  broth  or  water,  the  tomatoes,  parsley,  onion 
and  salt;  cover  and  let  cook  about  25  minutes,  or  until  the  rice  is  done.  Remove 
the  onion,  cloves  and  parsley.  Rub  over  the  inside  of  a  charlotte  mold  with  Crisco. 
Pack  the  cooked  rice  and  the  sliced  chicken  in  the  mold  in  alternate  layers,  making 
each  layer  solid  and  having  the  first  and  last  layers  of  rice.  Set  to  cook  in  the  oven 
in  a  dish  of  hot  water.  Let  cook  about  20  minutes.  Unmold  on  a  hot  dish.  Serve 
with  tomato  or  cream  sauce. 


CURRIED  CHICKEN 

Have  young  chickens  cleaned,  singed,  and  cut  into  pieces  at  the  joints.  Dip  each 
piece  in  cold  water,  then  roll  in  corn  flour  till  well  coated  with  flour.  Heat  half  a 
cupful  or  more  of  Crisco  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  an  iron  frying  pan;  in  it 
cook  the  chicken  very  slowly  until  well  browned  on  all  sides  and  tender.  Remove 
from  the  pan  and  strain  the  Crisco  into  a  cup.  Return  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
Crisco  to  the  pan;  in  it  cook  half  a  sliced  onion  till  slightly  browned;  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder  and 
one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika  and  stir  until  frothy;  add  one  cupful  of  milk 
and  half  a  cupful  of  thin  cream  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
currant  jelly  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon;  stir  until  the  jelly  is  dissolved  then  strain 
into  a  bowl.   Serve  boiled  rice  with  the  chicken. 

LAMB  EN  CASSEROLE 

Cut  three  pounds  of  the  scrag  or  neck  of  year-old  lamb  in  small  pieces.  Melt 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  Crisco  in  an  iron  frying  pan.  Roll  the  pieces  of  meat  in 
corn  flour  or  meal  and  set  to  cook  in  the  hot  Crisco.  When  browned  delicately  on 
one  side,  turn  to  brown  the  other  side.  Set  the  meat  in  a  casserole,  pour  on  boiling 
water  or  stock  made  from  remnants  of  roast  meats  just  to  cover  the  meat;  cover 
the  dish  and  set  to  cook  in  the  oven.  Add,  after  half  an  hour,  four  peeled  onions, 
and  let  cook  an  hour  and  a  half;  add  six  new  carrots,  scraped,  washed  and  cut  in 
halves,  lengthwise,  six  or  eight  potatoes,  pared  and  cut  in  quarters,  and  three  stalks 
of  celery,  cut  in  inch  lengths.  Add  also  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  let  cook  until  the 
vegetables  are  done.    Serve  from  the  casserole. 

INEXPENSIVE  LAMB  CUTLETS,  BREADED 

Buy  three  or  four  pounds  of  the  fore  quarter  of  lamb  and  have  it  cut  to  get  the 
shank  in  one  half  and  the  scrag  or  neck  in  the  other  half;  take  the  scrag  half,  remove 
the  shoulder  blade,  and  cut  at  the  backbone  (with  the  cleaver)  to  separate  into 
cutlets.  Steam  over  boiling  water  until  tender.  Set  to  press  under  a  weight  until 
cold.  Dip  each  cutlet  in  an  egg,  beaten  and  diluted  with  milk,  then  roll  in  soft, 
sifted  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  Crisco  until  well  colored.  Serve  with  string 
beans,  carrots  or  turnips  and  potatoes.  The  Crisco  at  using  should  brown  a  crumb 
of  soft  bread  in  40  seconds. 

43 


Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


TURKISH  PILAF  WITH  FLANK  OF  LAMB 


2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  1  cupful  boiling  water 

Y2  cupful  rice  6  to  8  flank  ends  from  lamb  chops 

1  small  onion  or  beefsteak 

1  cupful  tomato  1  teaspoonful  salt 

3^  teaspoonful  paprika 

Melt  the  Crisco.  Remove  all  superfluous  fat  from  meat  and  cook  the  fat  to  use 
another  day  for  some  other  dish.  Cut  the  meat  in  pieces  about  one  inch  in  length, 
roll  in  corn  flour  and  let  cook  in  the  Crisco  till  browned  slightly,  then  remove  to  a 
casserole.  Add  the  water  and  tomato,  cover  and  set  to  cook,  on  top  of  the  range 
or  in  the  oven.  After  an  hour,  wash  and  dry  the  rice,  add  it  to  the  Crisco  in  the 
frying  pan  with  the  sliced  onion  and  stir  and  cook  until  the  Crisco  is  absorbed;  add 
to  the  casserole  with  the  salt  and  paprika;  rinse  the  frying  pan  with  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  boiling  water  and  add  to  the  casserole,  cover  and  let  cook  until  the  meat 
and  rice  are  tender.  This  is  one  of  the  best  ways  to  cook  the  flank  ends  that  come 
on  loin  chops  or  sirloin  steak.  Cut  off"  the  flank  ends  before  broiling  the  rest  of  the 
meat. 

FORE  QUARTER  OF  LAMB,  STEAMED 

To  serve  four  or  five,  purchase  about  four  or  five  pounds  of  the  best  end  of  a  fore 
quarter  of  lamb.  Set  on  a  rack  in  a  steam  kettle  over  a  quart  of  boiling  water. 
Heat  quickly  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  cook  from  two  to  four  hours,  according 
to  age.  Lift  with  a  skimmer  to  a  hot  serving  dish  and  let  stand  in  a  warming  oven 
while  making  a  sauce.  Take  three  tablespoonfuls  or  fat  from  the  broth;  let  cook 
two  or  three  minutes  to  evaporate  water  in  the  fat;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  when  frothy  add  one  cupful  and  a  half  of 
the  broth,  freed  of  fat  and  cooled  a  little;  stir  until  boiling;  add  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  capers  or  fine-chopped  pickled  gherkins  and  the  sauce  is  ready  to 
serve  with  the  meat.  Serve  also  mealy  boiled  potatoes,  French  turnips,  spinach 
or  beet  greens.   Any  meat  left  over  will  make  excellent  croquettes,  hash,  or  souffle. 


OXFORD  SAUSAGE 

1  pound  pork  (lean  and  fat  all  grating  of  nutmeg 

edible)  4  dried  sage  leaves,  crushed  and 

1  pound  veal  or  beef  sifted 
%  pound  beef  suet  1  teaspoonful  black  pepper 

Yi  pound  fine  soft  bread  crumbs  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

Y2  teaspoonful  summer  savory 
Put  the  meat  and  suet  through  the  food  chopper  and  sift  the  bread  crumbs;  add 
the  other  ingredients  and  mix  all  together  thoroughly.  Press  in  a  bowl  and  set 
aside  in  the  refrigerator.  When  ready  to  use,  shape  into  small  flat  cakes  as  thick 
on  the  edge  as  at  the  center.  Roll  in  corn  flour.  Melt  a  teaspoonful  of  Crisco  in 
a  hot  frying  pan,  and  put  in  the  cakes;  let  cook  until  browned  on  one  side,  turn  to 
brown  the  other  side. 

MEAT  PIE 

A  meat  pie  may  be  made  of  meat  bought  for  the  purpose  or  of  roast  or  other 
meat  "left  over."  The  first  consideration  in  the  meat  is  tenderness.  If  meat  be 
bought  for  the  dish,  cut  it  in  small  pieces  and  cook  until  tender,  simmering  after 
the  first  five  minutes  of  boiling.    If  left-over  meat  be  used,  free  it  of  all  unedible 

44 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


portions.  Cover  the  bones,  skin,  gristle,  etc.,  with  cold  water,  heat  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point,  then  let  simmer  an  hour  or  two.  Strain  off  the  liquid  and  use  this 
as  the  liquid  in  which  to  simmer  the  meat  until  tender.  Add  vegetables  to  flavor 
(onion,  celery,  carrot,  tomato),  also  mushroom  or  tomato  catsup,  Worcestershire 
sauce,  etc.,  for  the  meat  loses  flavor  in  recooking.  When  tender,  thicken  with 
flour  diluted  with  water  and  set  the  crust  in  place.  (Recipe  for  crust  on  page 
26.) 

PLANKED  HAMBURG  STEAK 

To  serve  five,  purchase  one  pound  and  a  half  of  beef  from  the  top  of  the  round; 
add  to  it  about  two  ounces  of  beef  marrow  or  suet.  Press  the  meat  and  suet  through 
a  meat  chopper.  The  marrow  may  be  added  with  the  salt  and  onion.  Half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  about  a  teaspoonful  of  scraped  onion  pulp  may  be  used.  If 
no  fat  comes  with  the  meat,  use  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Crisco.  Work  the  meat,  fat, 
seasoning,  and  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water  together,  then  shape  into  a  steak  a  little 
more  than  an  inch  thick.  Heat  a  broiler  very  hot;  rub  it  over  with  fat  and  set 
the  steak  on  it.  Cook  on  one  side  about  eight  minutes,  moving  it  farther  from  the 
heat  after  three  or  four  minutes.  Make  the  plank  hot  in  the  oven.  Set  the  steak 
on  it,  uncooked  side  upwards.  Pipe  about  a  quart  of  hot  mashed  potato  about  it, 
making  cups  of  potato  to  hold  peas.  Set  five  or  six  cooked  onions  at  equal  dis- 
tances between  the  cups;  brush  over  the  steak  and  onions  with  melted  Crisco,  the 
potato  with  a  beaten  egg  yolk,  diluted  with  milk,  and  set  into  the  oven  to  finish 
cooking  the  steak  and  brown  the  edges  of  the  potato.  Fill  the  cups  with  cooked  and 
seasoned  peas.   Garnish  with  tomato  and  serve  at  once. 


CONSERVATION  CROQUETTES 

2}/2  cupfuls  cream,  white  or  to-  V/%  cupfuls  boiled  rice,  grains 

mato  sauce  distinct  and  tender 

1  tablespoonful  scraped  onion  Y2  teaspoonful  salt 

1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped   

parsley  2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

2  cupfuls  chopped  cooked  meat  6  tablespoonfuls  cracker  crumbs 

For  the  cream  sauce,  use  five  tablespoonfuls  each  of  Crisco  and  flour,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  one  cupful  of  milk,  or, 
in  place  of  the  milk,  use  tomato  pulp  or  broth  made  from  the  bones  and  trimmings 
of  the  meat.  More  than  one  variety  of  meat  may  be  used.  Mix  all  the  ingre- 
dients in  the  sauce.  Turn  into  a  Criscoed  dish.  Cover  with  the  cracker  crumbs 
mixed  with  the  Crisco;  spread  these  above  the  mixture;  bake  until  the  crumbs  are 
browned. 

STEWED  PIGEONS 

Singe  and  clean  the  pigeons,  and  cut  them  in  halves  through  the  back  and  breast. 
Dip  in  water  and  roll  in  barley  flour.  Melt  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  Crisco 
in  an  iron  frying  pan;  in  it  cook  the  pigeons  until  lightly  browned,  first  on  one  side 
and  then  on  the  other.  Set  in  an  earthen  or  glass  casserole;  pour  on  boiling  water 
to  just  cover  the  half  pigeons.  Cover  the  dish  and  let  cook  in  the  oven  an  hour. 
Parboil  and  drain  as  many  onions  as  halves  of  pigeons;  add  to  the  casserole  and  let 
cook  another  hour;  then  add  as  many  potatoes  as  halves  of  pigeons,  pared  and  cut 
in  lengthwise  quarters;  add  also  a  bunch  of  young  carrots,  scraped  and  cut  in 
halves  lengthwise,  with  salt  and  pepper  as  needed.  When  the  meat  and  vegetables 
are  nearly  tender,  pour  in  a  cupful  of  peas  and  let  cook  20  minutes.  Serve  from 
the  casserole. 

45 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


FARINA  OR  HOMINY  BALLS 


Let  three  cupfuls  of  water  and  three-fourths  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  boil  rapidly; 
stir  in  three-fourths  a  cupful  of  hominy,  adding  the  hominy  so  slowly  that  the 
water  will  not  stop  boiling.  Let  boil  about  ten  minutes  directly  over  the  fire, 
then  let  cook  over  boiling  water  about  two  hours.  Longer  cooking  will  improve 
the  dish.  A  little  boiling  water  may  be  added,  if  needed,  during  the  cooking.  Let 
chill  somewhat;  moisten  the  hands  in  cold  water  and  roll  the  hominy  into  balls 
about  the  size  of  an  English  walnut.  Roll  in  soft,  sifted  bread  crumbs,  then  in  an 
egg,  beaten  and  mixed  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  again  in  the  crumbs. 
Fry  in  hot  fat  until  well  colored.  From  one-fourth  to  one-half  a  teaspoonful  of 
poultry  seasoning  may  be  cooked  in  the  hominy,  or,  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese  may 
be  stirred  in  before  removal  from  the  fire.  In  shaping  the  balls,  do  not  press  the 
hominy  together  too  compactly.    Serve  in  place  of  bread  or  potatoes. 


Add  the  salt  to  the  boiling  water.  Mix  the  corn  meal  and  cold  water.  Gradu- 
ally stir  the  corn  meal  into  the  rapidly  boiling  salted  water.  Do  not  allow  the  mix- 
ture to  stop  boiling  while  the  meal  is  being  added.  When  all  the  meal  has  been 
added,  set  the  boiler  over  boiling  water,  cover  and  let  cook  an  hour  or  longer, 
stirring  occasionally.  Three  hours  is  none  too  long  to  cook  corn  meal  mush. 
Just  before  serving,  stir  in  from  half  to  a  full  cup  of  grated  cheese.  Serve,  sprinkled 
with  more  grated  cheese,  as  a  breakfast  cereal.  Sugar  is  unnecessary;  milk  may  be 
added.    Cheese  should  not  be  given  to  young  children. 


straight  sides,  or  into  empty  baking  powder  boxes.  When  cold,  cut  in  slices,  dip 
in  barley  or  corn  flour,  and  saute  in  hot  Crisco  until  well  browned,  first  on  one  side, 
and  then  on  the  other.  Serve  with  meat  in  place  of  bread,  or  serve  with  syrup 
as  a  dessert  dish. 


Cut  cold  cooked  oatmeal,  rice  or  hominy  in  slices,  dip  in  barley  or  other  flour, 
and  saute  in  hot  Crisco;  serve  in  the  place  of  bread  or  with  syrup  or  sugar  as  a 
dessert  dish. 


FRIED  OATMEAL,  RICE  OR  HOMINY 


46 


Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES 

Pare  the  potatoes,  cut  them  in  halves  lengthwise,  and  then  in  pieces  like  the 
section  of  an  orange.  Let  stand  in  cold  water  an  hour  or  longer,  then  dry  on  a 
soft  cloth  and  fry  in  hot  Crisco  to  a  rich,  straw  color  and  until  tender  through- 
out. Drain  on  a  skimmer  and  then  on  soft  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  serve  at 
once.    The  fat  is  at  the  right  heat  when  it  browns  a  crumb  of  bread  in  20  seconds. 


47 


BAKED  OATMEAL  AND  PEANUT  CAKES 


2  cupfuls  cooked  oatmeal  J/£  cupful  milk 

1  cupful  crushed  peanuts,  or  Y2  teaspoonful  paprika 
%  cupful  peanut  butter                       1  teaspoonful  salt 

The  oatmeal  should  be  cooked  quite  stiff,  add  the  peanuts,  milk,  paprika,  and 
salt,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Shape  into  five  or  six  round  flat  cakes.  Set  on  a  Cris- 
coed  pan.  Bake  about  ten  minutes.  Serve  as  the  main  dish  at  luncheon  or  dinner 
with  plain  lettuce  or  tomato  salad  or  stewed  tomatoes. 

SCALLOPED  HOMINY  AND  CHEESE 

2  cupfuls  hot,  cooked  hominy  1^  cupfuls  milk 

3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  1  to  2  cupfuls  grated  cheese 
%  teaspoonful  salt                              ^  cupful  cracker  crumbs 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

}/2  teaspoonful  paprika  34  teaspoonful  salt 

When  the  hominy  is  done,  melt  the  Crisco,  add  the  salt,  flour,  and  paprika,  and 
stir  and  cook  till  frothy;  add  the  milk  and  stir  until  boiling,  then  stir  in  the  cheese. 
Rub  Crisco  over  the  inside  of  a  baking  dish,  put  in  it,  alternately,  layers  of  the 
hominy  and  cheese  mixture,  having  the  cheese  mixture  the  last  layer.  Spread  the 
cracker  crumbs  mixed  with  the  salt  and  melted  Crisco  over  the  top.  Bake  until 
the  crumbs  are  browned. 

SOY  BEAN  LOAF 

1  cupful  soy  beans  1  egg,  beaten  light 

1  cupful  soft  bread  crumbs  1  small  onion,  chopped  or  grated 

3  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco  1  chili  pepper,  chopped 

5  tablespoonfuls  tomato  catsup  teaspoonfuls  salt 

Soak  the  beans  overnight,  wash  and  set  to  cook  in  fresh  water,  cook  till  tender 
(6  to  8  hours)  and  the  water  much  reduced.  Press  through  a  sieve.  There  should  be 
two  cupfuls  of  puree;  add  the  other  ingredients,  mix  and  shape  into  a  loaf.  Bake  in 
a  Criscoed  pan,  basting  often  with  melted  Crisco  to  which  a  little  salt  has  been 
added.  Serve  hot  with  brown  or  tomato  sauce.  Left-over  loaf  may  be  sliced,  dipped 
in  corn  flour  or  meal  and  sauteed  in  hot  Crisco.  Other  varieties  of  beans  may  be 
used  in  the  same  manner  and  require  less  cooking  at  first. 


HOMINY  BOULETTES 

3  cupfuls  boiling  water  soft,  sifted  bread  crumbs 

%  teaspoonful  salt  1  egg,  beaten  light 

%  cupful  hominy  3  tablespoonfuls  milk 

Crisco  for  frying 

Stir  the  hominy  very  slowly  into  the  water,  boiling  rapidly  directly  over  the 
fire.  Let  cook  ten  minutes  over  the  fire,  after  all  the  hominy  has  been  added, 
stirring  occasionally;  let  cook  over  boiling  water  two  hours.  Add  boiling  water  if 
needed.  Let  chill  a  little;  wet  the  hands  in  cold  water  and  roll  the  hominy  into 
balls  about  the  size  of  an  English  walnut.  Roll  in  the  egg,  beaten  and  diluted 
with  the  milk,  and  then  in  the  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  Crisco.  They  will  fry  very 
quickly  and  will  not  absorb  much,  if  any,  fat.  Half  a  teaspoonful  of  poultry  season- 
ing may  be  cooked  in  the  hominy,  or  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese  may  be  stirred  in 
just  before  removing  it  from  the  fire. 

48 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


GREEN  PEPPERS,  STUFFED  AND  BAKED 


8  green  peppers 
j/£  cupful  rice,  blanched 

1  cupful  broth 

Y2  cupful  thick  tomato  puree 
J/£  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

Trim  off  one  end  of  the  peppers,  that  they  may  stand  level  and  form  cups. 
Sometimes  better  shapes  can  be  secured  by  cutting  the  peppers  in  halves,  length- 
wise, to  form  two  receptacles  from  one  pepper.  Discard  the  seeds,  parboil  in 
boiling  water  ten  minutes,  wipe  and,  when  filled,  set  into  a  baking  dish,  add  a 
little  boiling  broth  or  water,  and  let  cook  in  the  oven  about  ten  minutes  or  until 
very  hot  throughout.  Serve  from  the  baking  dish.  To  prepare  the  filling,  heat 
the  broth,  tomato,  and  salt  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  rice  and  set  to  cook  in  a 
double  boiler.  Melt  the  Crisco,  in  it  stir  and  cook  the  chopped  vegetables  until 
softened  somewhat,  then  add  to  the  rice  to  cook  until  the  rice  is  tender.  Add  the 
ham  and  more  salt  if  needed  and  use  to  fill  the  peppers.  Tomato  or  cream  sauce 
may  be  poured  around  the  peppers  before  serving. 


1  small  onion 

3  branches  parsley  chopped 
3  mushrooms,  if  de-   |  fine 

sired  J 
1  cupful  cooked  ham,  chopped 
3^2  teaspoonful  salt 


49 


POTATO  PEANUT  LOAF 


2  cupfuls  mashed  potato 
2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 


V/2  teaspoonfuls  salt 
J/2  teaspoonful  paprika 
2  eggs,  beaten  light 
Y2  cupful  milk 


1  cupful  crushed  peanuts,  or 
3^  cupful  peanut  butter 


Melt  the  Crisco  in  the  potato,  if  hot;  otherwise,  melt  before  adding;  beat  in  the 
other  ingredients.  Bake  in  a  well-Criscoed  baking  dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water, 
until  firm.    Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 


Melt  the  Crisco,  add  the  onion  peeled  and  sliced  fine.  Cover  and  let  simmer, 
stirring  occasionally,  until  softened  and  yellowed.  Add  the  tomatoes,  corn, 
water,  and  parsley;  cover  and  simmer  about  one  hour.  Cook  the  potatoes  about  five 
minutes,  drain,  rinse  in  cold  water,  drain  again,  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients 
with  the  salt  and  paprika.  Let  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  done.  Add  milk  if 
needed. 


Chop  the  vegetables  and  parsley  fine;  add  the  salt  and  a  dash  of  paprika  if 
approved.  Melt  the  Crisco  in  a  frying  pan,  put  in  the  vegetables  and  stir  three 
or  four  minutes;  cover  and  let  stand  three  or  four  minutes.  Stir  and  press  into 
a  flat  sheet  on  the  pan.  Set  into  the  oven,  uncovered,  or  on  the  back  of  the  range, 
covered,  until  hot  throughout  and  browned  beneath,  fold  at  the  center  and  turn  on 
a  hot  dish.    Serve  at  once. 


Melt  the  Crisco,  in  it  cook  the  flour,  pepper,  and  salt;  add  the  milk  and  stir 
until  boiling;  add  the  spinach  first  pressed  through  a  sieve,  the  yolks  and  cheese; 
fold  in  the  whites  and  turn  into  a  Criscoed  dish.  Spread  the  crumbs  mixed  with 
the  Crisco  over  the  top.  Bake  in  a  pan  of  water  in  a  moderate  oven  about  25 
minutes.  Serve  with  or  without  cream  sauce.  The  spinach  may  be  omitted  for  a 
plain  cheese  souffle. 


CORN-AND-TOMATO  CHOWDER 


2  cold  boiled  onions 
2  cold  boiled  carrots 
2  cold  boiled  kohl-rabi 


SPINACH  AND  CHEESE  SOUFFLE 


2  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 


50 


Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CREAMED  DELICATA 


Delicata  is  a  longish  oval  variety  of  summer  squash  having  a  texture  similar  to 
eggplant.  It  may  be  pared,  cut  into  cubical  strips  about  four  inches  long,  boiled 
till  just  tender  and  served  on  toast  with  any  of  the  sauces  used  for  asparagus.  To 
serve  four  with  creamed  Delicata,  prepare  a  cream  sauce  of  two  tabiespoonfuls 
each  Crisco  and  flour,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  pepper  and  one 
cupful  of  milk.    Care  must  be  taken  not  to  overcook  the  squash. 

SIMPLE  POTATO  SOUP 

4  potatoes  3  tabiespoonfuls  Crisco 

1  onion,  sliced  3  tabiespoonfuls  flour 

2  tabiespoonfuls  parsley  leaves  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

34  cupful  celery  leaves  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper 

1  quart  boiling  water  3  cupfuls  milk 

Pare  the  potatoes,  cut  in  quarters,  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  an  hour  or  longer. 
Boil  the  potatoes,  onion,  and  fresh  or  dried  leaves  in  the  water  until  the  potatoes 
are  done.  Press  the  whole  through  a  sieve  and  keep  hot.  Melt  the  Crisco;  in  it 
cook  the  flour  and  seasonings;  add  the  milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  hot 
potato  puree,  with  more  milk  if  needed. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES 

4  tabiespoonfuls  Crisco  2  tabiespoonfuls  chopped  parsley 

1  onion,  sliced  thin  1  teaspoonful  salt 

3  cupfuls  sliced  potato  (cooked)  Y2  teaspoonful  paprika 

milk  or  broth 

Melt  the  Crisco;  in  it  cook  the  onion,  stirring  often,  until  it  is  slightly  yellowed. 
Rub  over  a  baking  dish  with  Crisco;  put  in  a  layer  of  potato,  sprinkle  with  onion, 
parsley,  salt  and  paprika,  and  continue  the  layers  until  all  are  used;  add  milk 
or  broth  until  it  can  be  seen  through  the  potato.  Let  bake  about  half  an  hour. 
This  dish  may  also  be  made  with  raw  potato  or  with  potatoes  sliced  and  parboiled 
about  five  minutes.  In  either  case  the  time  of  baking  must  be  increased  to  one 
hour  or  longer.  Broth  made  from  remnants  of  roasts  is  good  for  this  dish;  cheese 
may  be  added  for  a  hearty  dish. 

POTATO  SOUFFLE 

4  cupfuls  hot  mashed  potato  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tabiespoonfuls  Crisco  teaspoonful  pepper 

2  tabiespoonfuls  milk  2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

2  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 
Mix  together  the  potato  and  seasonings;  beat  in  the  yolks  and  fold  in  the  whites. 
Pile  in  a  Criscoed  baking  dish.   Let  bake  until  the  mixture  puffs  and  browns  slightly. 
Serve  at  once.    For  a  more  hearty  dish,  grated  cheese  may  be  mixed  through  the 
potato. 

BROILED  TOMATOES  FOR  PLANKED  STEAK 

Cut  ripe  tomatoes  in  thick  slices,  dip  in  melted  Crisco  and  then  in  soft,  fine  bread 
crumbs;  let  boil  in  a  hot  well-Criscoed  broiler  until  the  tomatoes  are  soft  and  the 
crumbs  browned. 

51 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


TRIPE  AND  ONIONS 


Take  care  to  select  tender  pickled  tripe.  Wash  in  cold  water  and  cut  in  pieces 
of  uniform  size  and  shape.  Dry  on  a  cloth,  then  pat  in  sifted  corn  flour  or  meal. 
Have  ready  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  Crisco,  hot,  in  a  frying  pan.  Set  in  the 
tripe  and  let  cook  until  lightly  browned  on  one  side,  then  turn  to  brown  the  other 
side.  Have  ready  small  onions,  boiled  tender  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  a  little 
butter.  Serve  the  tripe  and  onions  on  the  same  dish.  Tripe  is  eighteen  cents 
per  pound  in  the  Boston  market,  and  probably  it  is  no  higher  in  price  anywhere 
in  this  country.    There  is  no  waste;  every  bit  is  edible  and  easily  digested. 

POTATO  CAKES  (Left-Over  Mashed  Potato) 

Shape  mashed  potato  left  over  from  dinner,  while  warm,  into  round  flat  cakes. 
Set  these  on  a  dish  rubbed  over  with  Crisco;  brush  over  with  melted  Crisco  or 
place  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  Crisco  on  the  top  of  each  cake.  Let  heat  in  a 
hot  oven. 

SHEPHERD'S  PIE 

Use  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  potato,  two  cupfuls  of  cooked  fish  or  meat,  and  one 
cupful  and  a  half  of  sauce.  For  the  sauce  use  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  Crisco  and 
flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  fish  or  meat  broth. 
Mix  the  solid  material  with  the  sauce  and  turn  into  a  Criscoed  baking  dish;  cover 
with  mashed  potato  and  brush  over  the  potato  with  melted  Crisco;  let  heat  through- 
out and  brown  the  edges  of  the  potato  in  a  hot  oven. 


NEW  ENGLAND  SCRAPPLE 

Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  four  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  rapidly  boiling  water; 
sprinkle  in  very  slowly,  keeping  the  water  boiling  all  the  time,  one  and  one-half 
cupfuls  of  yellow  corn  meal.  When  all  the  meal  has  been  stirred  in,  let  the  mix- 
ture boil  two  minutes,  then  set  to  cook  over  boiling  water  (double  boiler)  for  two 
or  three  hours.  Stir  through  the  meal  half  a  pound  of  choice  sausage,  cut  into 
quarter-inch  cubes.  Let  cook  half  an  hour  longer  and  turn  into  empty  cocoa  or 
baking  powder  boxes  rinsed  in  cold  water.  When  cold  and  firm  cut  in  slices,  pat 
them  in  flour,  saute  in  hot  Crisco. 


TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  OYSTERS 

18  oysters  2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  6  tomatoes 

2  tablespoonfuls  barley  flour  or  1  tablespoonful  Crisco,  melted 

1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  3^  cupful  cracker  crumbs 

salt  and  paprika  few  grains  salt 

Heat  the  oysters  to  the  boiling  point  in  the  liquid  with  them.  Drain  and  chop 
the  oysters  (not  too  fine).  Melt  the  Crisco,  add  the  flour  with  salt  and  pepper  as 
needed,  and  cream  enough  to  make  with  the  broth  one  cupful  of  liquid,  stir  until 
boiling;  beat  in  the  egg  yolks  and  the  chopped  oysters.  Remove  a  small  piece 
around  the  stem  end  of  the  tomatoes  and  with  a  spoon  remove  the  soft  centers. 
Use  the  oyster  mixture  to  fill  the  tomatoes.  Set  the  tomatoes  in  individual  rame- 
kins; mix  the  melted  Crisco,  cracker  crumbs,  and  salt,  and  spread  over  the  mix- 
ture in  the  tomatoes.    Cook  in  the  oven  till  the  tomatoes  are  done. 


Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CAULIFLOWER  WITH  ONION  SAUCE 


Boil  a  cauliflower  in  the  usual  manner.  When  tender,  set  in  a  dish  suitable 
for  the  oven  and  the  table.  Have  ready  as  many  boiled  onions  as  will  make  a  cup- 
ful of  puree  when  pressed  through  a  sieve  (1  to  3,  according  to  size).  Heat  the  cup 
of  puree;  add  a  cupful  of  hot  cream,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  beat  in  the  yolk  of  one  egg.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the 
cauliflower.  Have  ready  half  a  cupful  or  more  of  half-inch  cubes  of  stale  bread 
sauteed  in  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  Crisco.  Sprinkle  these  over  the  cauli- 
flower and  sauce.    Serve  very  hot. 

FLEMISH  CARROTS 

The  carrots  may  be  canned,  fresh-cooked  or  dried.  They  may  be  sliced  thin, 
cut  in  cubes,  or  very  young  carrots  may  be  cut  in  quarters,  lengthwise.  For  a 
pint  of  carrots,  melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Crisco;  in  it  cook  slowly  one-fourth  a 
cupful  of  fine-chopped  onion  and  one  tablespoonful  of  parsley.  Keep  the  dish 
covered  and  stir  occasionally.  When  tender,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful 
of  black  pepper;  stir  until  blended;  add  one  cupful  of  meat  broth,  and  stir  until 
boiling;  add  the  carrots,  drained  from  the  water  in  which  they  have  been  boiled 
(or  canned)  and  let  simmer  very  gently  five  minutes. 

LEEKS,  BIANCA  STYLE 

Cut  the  roots  from  two  bunches  of  leeks;  divide  the  leeks  into  pieces  two  inches 
in  length.  Let  them  crisp  in  cold  water  half  an  hour  or  longer.  Boil  in  salted 
boiling  water  until  tender  (about  half  an  hour),  drain,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  drain 
again.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Crisco  in  a  saucepan;  add  the  leeks  and  let 
simmer  over  a  slow  fire;  add  about  a  cupful  of  sauce  made  of  two  tablespoonfuls, 
each,  of  Crisco  and  flour,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  pepper,  and 
half  a  cupful,  each,  of  chicken  broth  and  rich  milk.    Serve  very  hot. 

SUMMER  SQUASH,  SAUTE 

Take  very  young  summer  squash  of  any  variety  —  club  shaped  are  particularly 
good.  The  squash  should  be  about  four  or  five  inches  long.  Pare  off  the  thin  outer 
skin,  and  cut  in  slices  less  than  half  an  inch  thick.  Season  flour  with  salt  and 
pepper;  pat  both  sides  of  the  squash  in  the  flour  until  it  is  well  coated.  Melt 
Crisco  in  a  frying  pan  and  in  it  cook  the  squash,  slowly,  until  well  colored  on  one 
side,  then  turn  to  cook  the  other  side.  Squash  cooked  in  this  way  is  particularly 
good  and  furnishes  a  way  of  using  a  vegetable  which  produces  so  liberally  that  a 
large  number  are  often  wasted. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES 

6  large,  smooth  tomatoes  Y%  a  small  onion,  chopped 

cupfuls  soft,  fine  bread  crumbs        34  teaspoonful  salt 
}/i  cupful  Crisco,  melted 
Cut  around  the  stem  end  of  the  tomatoes  and  take  out  the  seeds.    Shake  in  a 
little  salt  and  pepper.    Mix  the  crumbs,  onion,  salt,  and  Crisco,  and  use  to  fill 
the  tomatoes.    Set  the  tomatoes  in  a  Criscoed  dish  (earthen)  and  let  bake  about 
half  an  hour,  or  until  the  tomatoes  are  done.    Serve  with  or  without  cream  sauce. 

53 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


In  all  recipes  for  pastry,  the  proportions  of  flour  given  are  for  pastry  flour 
except  in  recipes  in  which  yeast  is  employed,  when  bread  flour  is  to  be  used. 


PLAIN  PASTRY 

1  cupful  barley  or  oat  flour  1  teaspoonful  salt 

3^2  cupful  rice  flour  3^  cupful  Crisco 

4  to  6  tablespoonfuls  cold  water 

Sift  flour  and  salt  and  cut  Crisco  into  flour  with  two  knives  until  finely  divided. 
Finger  tips  may  be  used  to  finish  blending  materials.  Add  gradually  sufficient 
water  to  make  stiff  paste.  Water  should  be  added  sparingly  and  mixed  with 
a  knife  through  dry  ingredients.  Form  lightly  and  quickly  into  dough,  roll  out 
on  slightly  floured  board,  about  one-quarter  inch  thick.  Use  light  motion  in 
handling  rolling-pin  and  roll  from  center  outward.    Sufficient  for  one  small  pie. 

BARLEY-AND-WHEAT  PASTRY 

1  cupful  barley  flour  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

1  cupful  wheat  flour  3^  cupful  Crisco 
3^  teaspoonful  salt  cold  water 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  barley  and  rice  flour  pastry.  Rye  flour  may  be 
used  in  place  of  the  barley  flour.  Pastry  made  of  barley  flour  may  be  handled 
much  more  easily  if  made  the  day  before  using.  When  first  taken  from  the  refrigerator 
it  will  not  roll  easily,  but,  after  standing  in  the  room  temperature  a  few  minutes, 
it  may  be  rolled  out  with  ease.  Pieces  that  are  trimmed  ofF  and  are  to  be  rolled 
over  again  should  be  piled  one  above  the  other;  beat  it  lightly  with  the  pin  a  few 
minutes,  then  roll  and  use. 

WHEATLESS  PIE  CRUST 

2  cupfuls  barley  flour  3^  cupful  Crisco 

34  teaspoonful  salt  3^  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

water  to  make  a  stiff  dough 

Combine  as  for  other  pastry.  This  is  particularly  good  for  mince,  apple,  squash 
and  pumpkin  pies. 

COVERED  CURRANT  JELLY  TARTLETS 

Roll  plain  pastry  to  a  scant  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Stamp  out  into 
rounds  three  or  four  inches  in  diameter.  With  the  small  end  of  a  pastry  tube, 
score  a  circle  of  small  rounds  on  half  of  the  large  rounds.  In  scoring  cut  through 
a  short  distance  on  these  little  rounds  but  not  enough  to  displace  them.  Set  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  currant  jelly  on  each  of  the  plain  rounds,  brush  the  edges  with  cold 
water  and  set  the  perforated  rounds  above,  pressing  the  two  together  firm  at  the 
edge;  brush  the  edges  and  the  top  of  the  tartlets  with  cold  water,  dredge  with 
granulated  sugar  and  bake  until  done,  about  ten  minutes.  Other  varieties  of 
jelly,  jam,  marmalade,  apple  sauce  or  cooked  fruit  may  be  used. 

54 

se  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


OPEN  FRUIT  TARTLETS 

Cut  pastry  rolled  to  a  thin  sheet  into  pieces  of  a  size  to  cover  small  inverted 
tins.  Brownie  tins  are  suitable  for  this  purpose.  Press  the  paste  close  over  the 
mold,  trim  at  the  edge  and  prick  all  over  with  a  fork.  Set  the  pastry-covered 
tins  on  a  tin  sheet  —  to  keep  the  edges  clean  —  and  let  bake  until  done,  five  to 
ten  minutes  will  be  needed.  Have  ready  one  cupful  of  hot  peach  or  other  cooked 
fruit  pressed  through  a  sieve;  add  one-fourth  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice  and  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  softened  in  one-fourth  a  cup- 
ful of  water  or  fruit  juice;  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved;  when 
chilled  and  beginning  to  "set"  use  to  fill  the  pastry;  ornament  the  top  with  pieces 
of  cooked  fruit  in  contrasting  color  and  maraschino  cherries. 

Note  —  Recipes  for  Chocolate  Eclairs,  Individual  Lemon  Pie  and  Covered 
Currant  Jelly  Tartlets  (herewith  illustrated)  will  be  found  on  pages  54,  56,  58. 


55 


CHOCOLATE  ECLAIRS  (CHOU  PASTE) 

J/2  cupful  Crisco  ]/2  cupful  barley  or  oat  flour 

1  cupful  boiling  water  34  cupful  corn  flour 
3^  teaspoonful  salt                              3  eggs 

Put  the  Crisco,  boiling  water  and  salt  over  the  fire;  when  boiling  sift  in  the 
flour  (also  sifted  before  measuring)  and  stir  and  cook  until  the  mixture  may  be 
gathered  into  a  compact  mass;  turn  into  a  mixing  bowl,  break  in  one  egg,  beat 
until  the  mixture  is  smooth,  then  beat  in  the  second  egg,  and  when  the  mixture 
is  smooth,  the  last  egg.  With  two  teaspoons  spread  the  mixture  on  Criscoed 
baking  pans  in  strips  about  four  inches  long  and  an  inch  and  a  half  wide.  Bake 
about  twenty-five  minutes.  The  oven  should  be  hot  on  the  bottom.  The  cakes 
are  baked  when  they  feel  light  when  lifted  in  the  hand  and  the  sides  are  delicately 
browned.  When  cold  split  on  one  side  and  fill  with  English  cream;  invert  and 
spread  the  smooth  side  with  chocolate  frosting.  This  frosting  may  be  chocolate 
fondant  or  a  simple  frosting  made  of  confectioner's  sugar.  The  recipe  makes 
eighteen  eclairs. 

ENGLISH  CREAM  FOR  ECLAIRS 

2  cupfuls  milk  2  eggs  or  4  yolks 
}/2  cupful  flour  or  34  cupful  sugar 

34  cupful  cornstarch  3^2  teaspoonful  vanilla  or  orange 

Y2  cupful  granulated  sugar  extract 
34  teaspoonful  salt 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  sift  together,  several  times,  the  flour,  sugar 
and  salt;  dilute  with  a  little  of  the  hot  milk;  mix  thoroughly,  then  stir  into  the 
rest  of  the  hot  milk;  continue  to  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens,  then  cover  and 
let  cook  ten  minutes.  Beat  the  eggs;  beat  in  the  sugar  and  stir  into  the  hot  mix- 
ture; stir  and  cook  two  or  three  minutes  or  until  the  egg  is  set.  When  cooled  a 
little,  add  the  flavoring  and  use. 

CONFECTIONER'S  CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

34  cupful  granulated  sugar  2  squares  chocolate,  melted 

34  cupful  boiling  water  sifted  confectioner's  sugar 

teaspoonful  vanilla  extract 
Cook  the  granulated  sugar  and  water  three  or  four  minutes;  add  the  chocolate  and 
beat  in  confectioner's  sugar  as  needed.    If  the  frosting  thickens  too  much  before  it  is 
all  used,  add  boiling  water  a  few  drops  at  a  time.    At  the  last,  beat  in  the  extract. 

CORN-FLOUR-AND-RICE-FLOUR  PASTRY 

¥2  cupful  corn  flour  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

}/2  cupful  rice  flour  34  cupful  Crisco 

}/2  teaspoonful  salt  cold  water  for  slightly  soft  paste 

Mix  and  sift  together  the  first  four  ingredients;  cut  in  the  Crisco;  add  the  water 
slowly  and  mix  to  a  paste  a  little  softer  than  with  wheat  flour.  Line  the  pie  plate 
with  the  paste,  then  fill  with  rice  or  beans,  and,  when  the  paste  is  baked,  remove 
the  article  used  and  replace  it  with  a  cooked  filling.  This  pastry  is  not  as  easily 
rolled  as  others,  and  cannot  be  used  very  successfully  for  the  upper  crust  of  pies. 
In  lining  plates,  use  the  fingers  to  assist  in  getting  the  paste  into  place.  This  pastry 
tastes  well. 

56 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


LEMON  PIE,  WITH  MERINGUE 


plain  or  flaky  pastry 
2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 
1  whole  egg  and  3  yolks 
1  cupful  sugar 

1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind 


5  tablespoonfuls  wheat  flour,  or 
3  tablespoonfuls  corn  flour  or  corn- 


starch 
Y2  teaspoonful  salt 
1  cupful  milk 


Line  a  pie  plate  with  pastry,  building  up  the  edge  as  for  a  custard  pie.  Cream 
the  Crisco  and  beat  the  eggs  until  light;  beat  part  of  the  sugar  into  the  Crisco  and 
part  into  the  eggs,  then  beat  the  two  together;  add  the  lemon  rind  and  juice;  stir 
part  of  the  milk  into  the  flour  and  salt  and  when  smooth  pour  into  the  lemon  mix- 
ture; add  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  mix  all  together  thoroughly;  turn  into  the  pastry- 
lined  plate  and  let  bake  until  firm  in  the  center;  let  cool  a  little,  spread  the  me- 
ringue smoothly  over  the  filling,  dredge  with  granulated  sugar  and  let  bake  in  a  very 
moderate  oven  about  12  minutes. 


Beat  the  egg  whites  very  light,  then  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar  and  the  ex- 
tract. 


MERINGUE  FOR  LEMON  PIE 


3  egg  whites 


cupful  granulated  sugar 
3^  teaspoonful  orange  or  vanilla  extract 


57 


INDIVIDUAL  LEMON  PIES 


Make  the  recipe  for  plain  pastry  and  use  it  to  line  about  eight  fluted  patty  pans; 
pour  in  the  lemon  filling  and  let  bake  about  fifteen  minutes  or  until  the  paste  is 
done  and  the  filling  is  well  puffed.  Let  cool  a  little,  then  lift  the  pies  out  of  the 
tins;  set  them  on  an  inverted  tin;  spread  with  meringue,  pipe  more  meringue  above, 
dredge  with  granulated  sugar  and  let  cook  in  a  slow  oven  about  eight  minutes. 


LEMON  FILLING  FOR  INDIVIDUAL  PIES 

23^2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  3  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

1  cupful  granulated  sugar   

teaspoonful  salt  3  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 

1  cupful  boiling  water  3^5  cupful  granulated  sugar 
grated  rind  and  juice  1  lemon 

Sift  together  the  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt;  add  the  boiling  water  and  stir  until 
boiling;  add  the  lemon  rind  and  juice  and  beat  in  the  yolks.  For  the  meringue, 
beat  the  sugar  into  the  whites  a  little  at  a  time. 


PUMPKIN  PIE 

Crisco  pastry  34  cupful  molasses 

2  cupfuls  strained  pumpkin  Y2  cupful  sugar 

1  egg,  beaten  light  1  teaspoonful  ginger 

34  cupful  cracker  crumbs  3^2  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  teaspoonful  salt  V/%  cupfuls  rich  milk 

Line  a  plate  with  Crisco  pastry,  building  up  the  edge  as  for  a  custard  pie;  mix 
all  the  ingredients  together  and  turn  into  the  prepared  pastry.  Bake  about  40 
minutes. 

RAISIN  PIE 

1  cupful  raisins  Y  cupful  sugar 

1  cupful  boiling  water  3^  teaspoonful  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  Y  lemon,  juice 

1  egg,  beaten  light 

Cook  the  raisins  (seeded)  in  the  water  till  the  skins  are  tender.  Add  water  as 
needed  to  have  one  cupful  when  cooked.  Mix  and  sift  the  cornstarch  with  the 
sugar  and  salt  and  stir  into  the  raisins;  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  lemon  juice  and 
egg.    Bake  between  two  Crisco  pastry  crusts. 


PINEAPPLE  PIE 

1  can  grated  pineapple  (2  cupfuls)         3^2  teaspoonful  salt 
6  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  3^2  cupful  sugar 

Y  lemon,  juice 

Bake  Crisco  pastry,  made  by  either  recipe  for  pastry,  over  an  inverted  plate. 
Prick  the  pastry  with  a  fork  that  it  may  rise  evenly.  Set  the  plate  into  the  oven 
on  a  baking  sheet  to  keep  it  clean  and  not  overcooked  on  the  edge.  Cut  figures 
(circles,  crescents  or  similar  designs)  from  some  of  the  pastry  and  let  bake.  Scald 
the  pineapple.  Mix  the  cornstarch,  salt,  and  sugar,  and  stir  and  cook  in  the  pine- 
apple until  thick  and  boiling;  cover  and  let  cook  20  minutes.  Set  the  cooked  pastry 
inside  a  pie  plate;  turn  in  the  partly-cooled  filling  and  set  the  pastry  figures  above  it. 

58 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CHOCOLATE  PIE 

2  cupfuls  milk  2  egg  yolks 

34  cupful  cornstarch  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

J/2  cupful  sugar  2  egg  whites 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

2  squares  chocolate,  melted  3^  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract 

Scald  the  milk  over  hot  water;  sift  together  the  cornstarch,  sugar,  and  salt,  and 
stir  into  the  hot  milk;  continue  stirring  until  smooth  and  thick;  cover  and  let  cook 
15  minutes;  add  the  melted  chocolate;  beat  the  yolks,  add  the  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar,  and  beat  into  the  mixture;  beat  until  the  egg  is  cooked;  turn  into  a 
Crisco-pastry  shell,  baked  over  an  inverted  plate,  then  set  inside  the  plate.  Beat 
the  egg  whites  very  light;  beat  in  the  sugar  and  vanilla  and  spread  over  the  pie. 
Let  cook  in  a  very  moderate  oven  twelve  minutes,  then  increase  the  heat  to  tint 
the  meringue  a  pale  amber  shade. 

SWEET-POTATO  PIE 

13^2  cupfuls  sifted  sweet  potato  teaspoonful  mace 

3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  3^  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
Y2  cupful  sugar                                   34  cupful  cracker  crumbs 

cupful  molasses  2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

3^  teaspoonful  salt  2  egg  whites,  beaten  light 

2  cupfuls  rich  milk 

The  potatoes  are  cooked  and  pressed  through  a  ricer  or  sieve;  add  the  other 
ingredients;  mix  thoroughly;  bake  in  a  plate  lined  with  Crisco  pastry  as  for  a  cus- 
tard pie. 

RHUBARB  PIE 

23^2  cupfuls  sliced  rhubarb  3^  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  orange  marmalade,  or 
3  tablespoonfuls  rice  flour  H  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  rhubarb  and  bring  quickly  to  the  boiling  point. 
Drain  and  press  out  all  the  liquid.  Mix  the  sugar,  flour,  and  salt  together;  add 
the  rhubarb  and  marmalade  or  lemon,  and  mix  again.  Turn  into  a  plate  lined  with 
Crisco  pastry.  Brush  the  edge  of  the  pastry  with  cold  water;  set  above  the  rhu- 
barb strips  of  pastry  half  an  inch  wide,  pressing  them  at  the  ends  upon  the  edge  of 
pastry.  Let  the  strips  of  pastry  extend  across  the  pie  in  opposite  directions  to  make 
small  diamond-shaped  openings.  Brush  the  strips  with  cold  water,  dredge  with 
sugar,  and  bake  about  25  minutes. 

SOUR-CREAM  PIE 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light  34  teaspoonful  lemon  extract 

%  cupful  sugar  34  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon 

1  cupful  sour  cream  34  teaspoonful  ground  cloves 
3^2  cupful  seeded  raisins  2  egg  whites,  beaten  light 

2  tablespoonfuls  barley  flour  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

Beat  part  of  the  sugar  into  the  yolks  and  part  into  the  cream;  beat  the  two 
together;  beat  in  the  flour,  extract,  and  spices,  and  turn  into  a  plate  lined  with 
Crisco  pastry  as  for  a  custard  pie.  Bake  till  firm  in  the  center.  Beat  the  whites; 
gradually  beat  in  the  sugar  and  spread  over  the  pie.  Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven 
about  ten  minutes. 

59 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 


13^  cupfuls  barley  flour 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Y2  cupful  rice  or  potato  flour 

teaspoonful  salt 
}4  cupful  Crisco 


1  cupful  milk  (about) 
butter 

2  baskets  strawberries 

13^2  cupfuls  granulated  sugar 
whipped  cream 


sugar 


Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  with  two  knives  or  the  tips  of 
the  fingers  work  in  the  Crisco,  then  use  milk  as  needed  to  mix  to  a  soft  dough. 
With  a  spoon  spread  the  dough  in  two  well-Criscoed  cake  pans.  Bake  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Turn  one  cake  on  a  large  chop  plate,  spread  the  bottom  with  butter, 
cover  with  strawberries  mixed  with  the  sugar,  set  the  second  cake  above  the  ber- 
ries, spread  this  with  butter  and  berries.  Serve  with  or  without  cream.  This 
recipe  may  be  used  for  fresh  raspberries,  blackberries  or  peaches  or  for  canned 
apricots.  To  prepare  the  strawberries,  hull,  wash  and  drain  them.  Cut  the 
berries  in  halves,  mix  with  the  sugar  (more  sugar  may  be  needed),  and  let  stand 
half  an  hour  or  longer.  Use  only  part  of  the  prepared  berries  on  the  cake;  crush 
the  rest  and  use  as  sauce.  Sift  confectioners  sugar  over  the  top  of  the  finished 
cake. 


60 


BLUEBERRY  PIE  WITH  MERINGUE 


Line  a  pie  plate  with  Crisco  pastry,  building  up  the  edge  as  for  a  custard  pie. 
Beat  two  egg  yolks;  add  two  cupfuls  of  canned  blueberries  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice.  Mix  together  two-thirds  a  cupful  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
barley  flour  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
combine  the  two  mixtures  and  turn  into  the  prepared  plate.  Bake  about  half  an 
hour.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  light;  gradually  beat  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  spread  over  the  pie.   Let  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  about  15  minutes. 


Line  a  pie  plate  with  Crisco  pastry;  slice  into  it  apples  to  fill  very  high  and  round- 
ing in  the  center;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  water  and  a  scant  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Lay  the  upper  crust,  in  which  slits  have  been  cut,  over  the  apples  and  trim 
the  edge  even  with  the  under  crust.  Do  not  press  the  edges  of  the  crusts  together. 
Bake  about  half  an  hour.  Run  a  thin-pointed  knife  between  the  two  crusts  at  the 
edge,  entirely  around  the  pie.  Lift  the  upper  crust,  set  it  upside  down  on  a  plate. 
To  the  apple  add  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  a  scant  two-thirds  a  cupful  of  maple  sugar, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  all  together  through  the  apple  without  dis- 
turbing the  crust.   Set  the  upper  crust  in  place  and  serve  as  soon  as  possible. 


With  scissors,  cut  ofF  all  imperfections,  bits  of  core,  etc.,  from  half  a  pound  of 
dried  apples,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes.  Wash  and  drain, 
then  cover  again  with  cold  water  to  remain  overnight.  Cook  tender  in  the  same 
water;  let  cool  slightly.  Put  as  many  of  the  apples  as  are  needed  into  a  plate  lined 
with  Crisco  pastry,  sprinkle  on  nearly  a  cupful  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  grating  of  nutmeg.   Set  the  upper  crust  in  place  and  bake  about  25  minutes. 


Take  about  a  pint  of  the  cooked  apples;  add  three-fourths  a  cupful  of  molasses, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  mix  lightly  and  turn  into 
the  plate  lined  with  Crisco  pastry.    Finish  as  above. 


Line  a  pie  plate  with  Crisco  pastry;  prepare  about  a  pint  of  stoned  cherries. 
Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  potato  flour,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  mix  through  the  cherries  and  juice;  dot  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
brush  the  edge  with  cold  water  and  set  a  second  piece  of  pastry  over  the  cherries, 
pressing  the  edges  together.    Bake  about  half  an  hour. 


Pour  boiling  water  over  the  rhubarb;  cover,  let  stand  five  minutes,  then  drain; 
add  the  raisins  seeded  and  cut  in  halves,  the  sugar,  cracker  crumbs,  and  salt;  mix 
and  turn  into  a  plate  lined  with  Crisco  pastry.  Finish  with  an  upper  crust.  Let 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  45  minutes. 


MOTHER'S  APPLE  PIE 


DRIED-APPLE  PIE 


DRIED-APPLE  PIE  NO.  2 


CHERRY  PIE 


61 


Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CUSTARD  PIE 


pastry 
4  eggs 

%  cupful  sugar 


3^  teaspoonful  salt 
2}/2  cupfuls  rich  milk 
nutmeg 


Trim  the  sheet  of  paste  to  extend  beyond  the  plate  three-fourths  an  inch  on  all 
sides,  roll  over  the  paste  to  meet  the  edge  of  the  plate.  Flute  this  double  fold 
of  paste  with  the  thumb  and  finger  and  press  each  fluting  down  upon  the  edge 
of  the  plate.  In  setting  the  paste  on  the  plate,  press  out  all  air  from  below.  Beat 
the  eggs,  add  the  sugar  and  salt  and  beat  again,  add  the  milk,  mix  thoroughly 
and  turn  into  the  prepared  plate.  Set  to  cook  in  a  hot  oven,  lowering  the  heat 
after  a  few  minutes  that  the  custard  be  not  over-cooked.  When  puffy  and  firm  the 
pie  is  baked.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top  and  chill  before  serving.  For 
plain  pastry  see  page  54. 


62 


LEMON-WHEY  PIE 


Crisco  pastry  x/i  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  whey  or  buttermilk  2  egg  yolks 

3  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  1  tablespoonful  Crisco,  creamed 

%  cupful  maple  syrup  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind 

Heat  the  whey  or  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Whey  is  abundant  after  making 
cottage  cheese.  With  buttermilk  use  one  spoonful  less  of  cornstarch.  Mix  the 
cornstarch  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  maple  syrup;  stir  and  cook  in  the  hot  liquid 
until  the  mixture  thickens;  cover  and  let  cook,  stirring  occasionally,  20  minutes; 
beat  the  salt  and  yolks  into  the  Crisco  and  stir  with  the  lemon  rind  and  juice  into 
the  hot  mixture;  let  cook  until  the  egg  is  set.  Any  variety  of  pastry  may  be  used. 
Line  the  plate  with  the  paste;  fill  it  with  the  lemon-whey  mixture;  cover  with  the 
meringue  and  let  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  about  20  minutes. 

MERINGUE  FOR  LEMON-WHEY  PIE 

2  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light  4  tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar 
Beat  the  egg  whites  very  light;  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar;  after  the  meringue 

is  spread  in  place,  dredge  it  with  about  a  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar. 

LEMON  PIE  WITH  TWO  CRUSTS 

Crisco  pastry  1  cupful  boiling  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  3^2  cupful  molasses 

3^2  cupful  sugar  1  large  lemon 

teaspoonful  salt  1  egg,  beaten  light 

Mix  and  sift  together  the  flour,  sugar,  and  salt,  then  stir  and  cook  in  the  boiling 
water  until  thickened  slightly  and  smooth;  add  the  molasses,  the  grated  yellow 
rind  of  the  lemon,  and  the  pulp  freed  of  seeds,  chopped  very  fine.  Bake  between 
two  crusts  about  30  minutes. 


ENGLISH  PINEAPPLE  PIE 

Drain  and  heat  the  juice  from  a  two-pound  can  of  sliced  pineapple.  Mix  three- 
fourths  a  cupful  of  sugar  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  and  stir  into  the 
hot  juice.  Continue  to  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens,  then  let  cook  over  hot  water 
about  ten  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  stir  through  the  mixture;  add 
one-third  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  five  slices  of  pineapple  cut  into  bits.  Have 
ready  a  Crisco  pastry  shell  (baked  over  an  inverted  plate)  and  fill  it  with  the  mix- 
ture. Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  very  stiff,  gradually  beat  in  one-fourth  a  cupful 
of  sugar,  and  spread  over  the  filling.  Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  about  ten 
minutes. 

GREEN  CURRANT  PIE 

Crisco  pastry  1  cupful  sugar,  generous 

23^  cupfuls  large  green  currants  Yi  teaspoonful  salt 

2  crackers,  rolled  fine  1  teaspoonful  butter,  in  bits 

a  grating  of  nutmeg,  if  desired 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  for  the  filling  and  turn  into  a  plate  lined  with  Crisco 
pastry;  cover  with  an  upper  layer  of  pastry.    Bake  about  35  minutes.    A  green 
currant  pie  was  one  of  the  delicacies  of  the  later  colonial  tables. 

63 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


FIG  PIE 


Cut  fine  three-fourths  a  pound  of  fresh  or  dried  figs;  add  a  cupful  and  a  half  of 
boiling  water,  and  let  cook  about  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  skins  are  tender.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  beat  again  with  a  few 
grains  of  salt;  stir  into  the  figs  and  let  cook  until  the  egg  is  set,  stirring  meanwhile. 
Turn  into  a  plate  lined  with  cooked  Crisco  pastry.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
very  light;  gradually  beat  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  spread  over  the  pie. 
Dredge  with  granulated  sugar.   Let  cook  in  a  very  slow  oven  about  20  minutes. 


GOOSEBERRY  PIE 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  Crisco  pastry;  fill  plate  with  stemmed-and-tailed  goose- 
berries; mix  a  cupful  of  sugar  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  scant  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  spread  over  the  berries;  grate  on  a  little  nutmeg  if  desired; 
brush  the  edge  of  the  paste  with  cold  water  and  set  a  round  of  Crisco  pastry  with 
slits  in  the  center  above  the  fruit;  trim  if  needed,  and  press  the  two  edges  together; 
bake  about  45  minutes. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PIE 

Crisco  pastry  2  tablespoonfuls  cider  vinegar 

2  cupfuls  green  tomatoes  J/2  teaspoonful  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco  J^2  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
}/<l  cupful  brown  sugar  34  teaspoonful  cloves 

Y2  cupful  raisins,  chopped  34  teaspoonful  mace 

Chop  the  tomatoes,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  let  boil  quickly;  drain  at  once, 
add  the  other  ingredients,  and  mix  thoroughly.    Bake  between  two  crusts. 


FIG  PIE  WITH  TWO  CRUSTS 

Crisco  pastry  Y2  lemon,  rind  and  juice 

3^2  pound  figs  fscant)  %  cupful  sugar 

34  pound  raisins  1  egg,  beaten  light 

y2  teaspoonful  salt 

Cover  the  figs  with  boiling  water  and  let  cook  until  the  skins  are  tender;  chop 
the  figs  and  raisins;  add  the  other  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly;  bake  between 
two  layers  of  Crisco  pastry  about  25  minutes. 


ALMOND  STRIPS 

Roll  Crisco  pastry  as  for  lining  a  pie  plate;  cut  in  strips  two  inches  wide  and  four 
inches  long;  set  them  on  a  baking  sheet,  brush  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  slightly 
beaten,  and  sprinkle  with  thin-sliced  almonds  and  granulated  sugar  mixed  with  a 
little  cinnamon.    Bake  to  a  delicate  amber  shade. 


PASTRY  HEARTS 

Roll  Crisco  pastry  into  a  very  thin  rectangular  sheet  spread  with  jelly  and  roll 
firm  like  a  jelly  roll;  cut  in  one-fourth  inch  slices;  with  the  fingers  draw  them  to  a 
point  at  one  end  and  press  them  in  at  the  other  end  to  give  them  the  shape  of  a 
heart;  brush  over  with  egg  white,  beaten  slightly;  dredge  with  granulated  sugar 
and  bake  to  an  amber  shade. 

64 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


STRAWBERRY  TARTS 


Bake  Crisco  pastry  over  small  inverted  tins.  Set  the  tins  for  baking  on  a  tin 
sheet  to  keep  the  edges  from  the  oven.  Prick  the  pastry  with  a  fork,  that  it  may 
rise  evenly.  When  baked,  slip  from  the  tins  and  invert.  Fill  the  open  space  with 
strawberry  preserves  or  any  variety  of  marmalade;  sprinkle  the  edge  of  the  pre- 
serve next  the  pastry  with  a  narrow  line  of  shredded  cocoanut  or  chopped  almonds. 

STRAWBERRY  TARTS  NO.  2 

Roll  the  Crisco  pastry  into  a  thin  sheet  and  cut  out  rounds  about  three  and 
one-half  inches  in  diameter;  pipe  chou  paste  on  the  edge  of  each  round;  bake  till 
done.  When  ready  to  serve,  reheat  and  fill  with  strawberries  cooked  in  the  same 
weight  of  sugar. 

LEMON  TARTS 

Crisco  pastry  1  egg,  beaten  light 

1  lemon,  rind  and  juice  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  sugar  Yi  cupful  fine  sponge  cake  crumbs 

Mix  the  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind,  the  sugar,  egg,  and  salt,  then  mix  in  the 
cake  crumbs.  Line  small  fluted  "  patty  pans"  with  Crisco  pastry;  fill  with  the  mix- 
ture and  bake  until  firm.   The  filling  is  enough  for  about  six  tarts. 

BARLEY-AND-POTATO  PASTRY 

1  cupful  barley  flour  1  cupful  cold  mashed  potatoes 

Y2  teaspoonful  baking  powder  Y  cupful  Crisco 

%  teaspoonful  salt  cold  water  as  needed 

Mix  and  sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt;  press  the  potatoes 
again  through  the  ricer  to  lighten  them,  mix  with  the  flour,  and  cut  the  Crisco  into 
both;  add  the  water  carefully  and  mix  to  a  paste. 

MELBA  TARTS 

Roll  Crisco  pastry  into  a  sheet  as  for  pies  (page  54),  cut  out  rounds  between 
three  and  four  inches  in  diameter.  Pipe  chou  paste  (page  56)  on  the  edge  of  each. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  done  (about  20  minutes).  Set  half  a  canned  apricot, 
round  side  up,  in  the  center  of  each  tart.  To  a  cupful  of  syrup  from  the  can,  add 
one-fourth  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  let  boil  three  or  four  minutes;  in  this  dissolve  half 
a  tablespoonful  of  granulated  gelatine  softened  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water. 
Stir  over  ice  and  water  until  beginning  to  set,  then  spread  over  the  apricots  to 
coat  them  completely. 

BANANA  BOATS 

Roll  Crisco  pastry  in  a  thin  sheet;  cut  in  pieces  to  fit  over  small  "brownie"  tins 
when  inverted;  prick  the  paste  in  several  places  with  a  fork;  bake  till  done;  melt 
a  glass  of  currant  or  other  fruit  jelly  in  a  little  boiling  water;  heat  and  let  cook  until 
a  smooth,  thick  syrup;  in  this  scald  bananas,  peeled,  scraped,  and  cut  in  thin  slices; 
set  in  the  bottom  of  the  Crisco  pastry  shells,  with  slices,  one  overlapping  another, 
lengthwise  of  the  shells.  To  a  cupful  of  the  melted  jelly,  add  half  a  tablespoonful 
of  gelatine  softened  in  cold  water;  when  chilled  a  little  pour  over  the  bananas  to 
coat  them  completely. 

65 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


APPLE  DUMPLINGS 


Roll  Crisco  pastry  into  a  sheet  as  for  pies  and  cut  into  rounds  large  enough  to 
enclose  an  apple.  Have  read}'  cored-and-pared  apples,  cooked  in  a  cup,  each,  of 
sugar  and  water  until  tender,  but  not  broken,  and  then  cooled.  Watch  the  apples 
while  cooking,  turning  them  often  that  they  keep  their  shape.  Set  an  apple  on  a 
round  of  the  paste  and  enclose  it  securely.  A  small  (two  inches  in  diameter)  round 
of  paste  with  lower  edge  wet  in  cold  water  may  be  pressed  over  the  place  where 
the  paste  comes  together  at  the  top.  Set  the  prepared  apples  in  a  baking  pan. 
Brush  over  with  cold  water  and  dredge  on  a  little  granulated  sugar.  Let  bake 
until  the  crust  is  done.  Serve  with  the  syrup  in  which  the  apples  were  cooked, 
or  sugar  and  milk. 


Roll  Crisco  pastry  into  a  thin  sheet  and  use  in  covering  the  outside  of  inverted 
tart  or  brownie  tins.  Prick  the  paste  all  over  and  set  the  tins  on  a  baking  sheet. 
Bake  about  ten  minutes.  Slide  the  pastry  from  the  tins.  Beat  the  yolk  of  an 
egg  and  very  gradually  beat  into  it  half  a  teaspoonful  of  beef  extract;  use  to  brush 
over  the  cases,  both  inside  and  outside,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  set  the  mixture. 
Chill  thoroughly.  Select  small  eggs;  poach  an  egg  for  each  case;  trim  to  fit  the  cases 
and  let  chill.  Dissolve  half  a  tablespoonful  of  gelatine,  softened  in  cold  water,  in  a 
cupful  of  clarified  chicken  broth.  When  the  mixture  is  cold  and  begins  to  stiffen, 
use  it  to  coat  the  eggs  completely.  Set  them  in  the  cases;  chop  some  of  the  chicken 
jelly  fine,  and  set  it  where  the  egg  and  case  meet.  Serve  very  cold  as  a  first  course 
at  luncheon  or  dinner. 


Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  mix  the  cornstarch  with  the  honey  or  syrup  and 
stir  into  the  hot  milk;  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens;  cover  and  let  cook,  stir- 
ring occasionally,  15  minutes;  add  the  yolk  beaten  light,  and  let  cook  until  the  egg 
thickens;  add  the  other  ingredients  and  when  again  hot,  turn  into  a  well-baked 
crust;  cover  with  a  meringue  made  with  the  white  of  the  egg  and  two  tablespoonf  uls 
of  sugar.    Let  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  about  ten  minutes. 


Roll  the  pastry  into  a  thin  rectangular  sheet,  and  cut  into  two  pieces  of  same 
size  and  shape.  Lay  one  piece  of  pastry  on  a  baking  sheet.  Cream  the  Crisco; 
beat  in  the  eggs,  salt,  paprika,  and  cheese.  Spread  this  over  the  pastry;  cover  with 
the  second  piece  of  pastry;  score  with  a  knife  in  strips  one  inch  wide  and  about  three 
inches  long;  brush  over  with  beaten  egg;  bake  about  15  minutes.  Cut  into  strips 
at  the  scoring.    Serve  at  once  or  reheat  before  serving. 


EGGS  A  LA  ST.  JACQUES 


(1  cupful  flour,  34  cupful  Crisco) 
2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 
1  egg  white 


Crisco  pastry 


66 


Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  PIE 


Crisco  pastry  2  eggs,  beaten  light 

l}/2  cupfuls  cottage  cheese  2  tablespoonfuls  thick  cream 

1  cupful  fine-chopped  raisins  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

Y2  cupful  honey  1  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice 

Line  a  plate  with  pastry  as  for  a  custard  pie.  Press  the  cheese  through  a  ricer; 
add  the  other  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly;  turn  into  the  pastry-lined  plate  and 
let  bake  until  the  mixture  thickens  slightly.  The  oven  should  be  of  good  heat  at 
first  to  bake  the  pastry,  then  lower  the  heat,  that  the  mixture  be  not  over-cooked. 
Sugar  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  honey. 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  PIE  NO.  2 

Omit  the  raisins,  otherwise  prepare  and  bake  the  pie  as  above.  When  taken 
from  the  oven  spread  a  thin  layer  of  strawberry  or  other  preserves  or  jam  above 
the  cheese  mixture.   The  edge  may  be  sprinkled  with  cocoanut,  if  desired. 


CHEESE  STRAWS 

Crisco  pastry  few  grains  salt 

grated  cheese  few  grains  paprika 

Roll  Crisco  pastry  into  a  thin  rectangular  sheet;  sprinkle  one  half  with  the  cheese, 
salt,  and  paprika;  fold  the  other  half  of  the  paste  over  the  cheese;  again  sprinkle 
half  of  the  paste  with  cheese,  salt,  and  paprika,  and  fold  over  it  the  other  half 
of  the  paste;  pat  the  paste  with  the  rolling  pin,  lightly;  cut  into  strips  of  same 
length  and  width.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  to  a  light  amber  shade. 


CHEESE  CAKES 

Crisco  pastry  1  lemon 

2  eggs  cupful  Crisco 

1  cupful  sugar  teaspoonful  salt 

Line  small  tins  or  patty  pans  with  Crisco  pastry.  Beat  the  egg  yolks;  gradually 
beat  in  part  of  the  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemon.  Heat  the  juice  of  the 
lemon,  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  and  the  Crisco  with  the  salt,  in  a  double  boiler;  when 
hot,  stir  and  cook  the  lemon  mixture  in  it  until  thickened  slightly;  fold  in  the  white 
of  one  egg  beaten  light;  stir  and  cook  until  the  egg  white  is  set,  then  let  cool  a  little 
and  turn  into  the  pastry-lined  tins  to  fill  them  to  three-fourths  their  height.  Bake 
about  15  minutes;  brush  them  over  with  egg  whites,  beaten  slightly;  dredge  with 
granulated  sugar  and  return  to  the  oven  to  "set"  the  glaze. 


CHERRIES  WITH  CRUSTS 

Cut  rings  from  slices  of  bread,  half  an  inch  thick;  soak  these  in  egg  yolk,  beaten 
and  diluted  with  milk  or  cream  and  mixed  with  sugar  and  a  grating  of  orange  peel. 
Egg-and-crumb,  using  macaroon  crumbs,  and,  lastly,  bread  crumbs;  saute  in  hot 
Crisco;  cover  with  marmalade  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds.  Dress  crown- 
shaped,  one  overlapping  another,  with  stewed  cherries  in  the  center.  Thicken  the 
cherry  syrup  with  cornstarch  or  arrowroot  for  a  sauce. 


67 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


EMILY'S  WHITE  CAKE 

%  cupful  Crisco  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

cupfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  cupfuls  wheat  flour  1  cupful  water 

}/2  cupful  rice  flour  1  teaspoonful  flavoring 

whites  of  3  eggs 

Cream  Crisco.  Add  sugar  slowly  and  cream  together.  Sift  dry  ingredients 
and  add  alternately  with  the  liquid.  Add  flavoring,  beat  mixture  thoroughly  and 
last  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Prepare  layer-cake  tins  by  greasing 
them  with  a  mixture  of  Crisco  and  flour.  Pour  in  cake  mixture;  put  in  mod- 
erate oven,  allow  to  rise  for  five  minutes,  increase  heat  to  bake;  at  the  end  of  fif- 
teen minutes,  reduce  heat  to  allow  cake  to  shrink  from  the  pan.  Entire  time  for 
baking  twenty  minutes.  —  Kate  B.  Vaughn. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

1  cupful  granulated  sugar  6  squares  chocolate 

1  cupful  boiling  water  confectioner's  sugar  as  needed 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract 
Melt  the  sugar  in  the  boiling  water,  cover  and  let  boil  three  or  four  minutes, 
add  the  chocolate  broken  in  pieces  and  let  melt  over  boiling  water,  then  beat 
in  the  sugar,  sifted,  and  the  extract.  Use  sugar  to  make  the  frosting  of  a  con- 
sistency to  spread  and  not  run  from  the  cake.  If  it  becomes  too  stiff  before  it 
is  spread,  add  boiling  water  or  syrup,  a  few  drops  at  a  time. 

THINGS  TO  REMEMBER  IN  CONNECTION  WITH  THESE 

RECIPES 

When  cake  is  not  a  success,  it  is  not  the  fault  of  the  Crisco.  Either  too  much 
was  used,  the  oven  heat  not  perfectly  controlled  or  some  important  ingredient  was 
used  in  the  wrong  proportion.  Crisco  should  be  creamed  with  the  sugar  more 
thoroughly  than  butter,  as  Crisco  contains  no  moisture  to  dissolve  the  sugar. 


68 


ROLLED  OATS  AND  CORN  FLOUR  DROP  COOKIES 

^  cupful  Crisco 


3^2  teaspoonful  salt 
3^2  teaspoonful  nutmeg 
3^2  teaspoonful  cloves 

1  cupful  corn  flour 

2  cupfuls  rolled  oats 
3^  cupful  ground  peanuts 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
Cream  the  Crisco;  add  the  liquid  and  the  sifted  dry  ingredients.    Then  add  the 
rolled  oats,  the  peanuts,  and  the  vanilla.    Drop  the  mixture  by  spoonfuls  on  a 
Criscoed  pan;  press  each  cookie  into  shape  with  a  fork  wet  in  cold  water,  and  bake 
them  in  a  moderate  oven. 


cupful  molasses 
J£  cupful  dark  corn  syrup 
%  cupful  sour  milk 
%  teaspoonful  soda 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 


3^2  cupful  Crisco 
1  cupful  sugar 


BARLEY  FLOUR  COOKIES 

1  beaten  egg 
3^2  cupful  sour  milk 
34  teaspoonful  soda 
Cream  the  Crisco,  beat  in  the  sugar,  egg,  milk  and  soda. 

Sift  134  cupfuls  barley  flour  and  134  cupfuls  white  flour  with  3  level  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder.  Beat  well  with  first  mixture.  Add  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  2 
teaspoonfuls  shredded  cocoanut.  Drop  in  small  rounds  on  Criscoed  cookie  tins 
and  bake  in  hot  oven  10  minutes. 


POTATO  COOKIES 


3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 
%  cupful  sugar 
1  egg,  well  beaten 
1  cupful  riced  potato 
1  cupful  barley  flour 


%  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  wheat  flour,  or 

3^2  cupful  rice  flour 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

grating  of  lemon  rind  or  nutmeg 


Cream  the  Crisco;  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar,  the  egg,  potato,  and  flour  sifted 
with  the  salt  and  baking  powder.  Mix  to  a  dough;  more  flour  may  be  needed. 
Roll  into  a  thin  sheet  and  cut  into  rounds.  Bake  about  15  minutes  on  a  Criscoed 
baking  sheet. 

PLAIN,  SOFT  MOLASSES  COOKIES 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  3^  teaspoonful  ginger 

2  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water  1  teaspoonful  sifted  soda 

%  cupful  molasses  134  cupfuls  barley  flour 

3^  teaspoonful  salt  J/2  cupful  corn  flour 

Melt  the  Crisco  in  the  boiling  water;  add  the  other  liquid  ingredients  and  sift 
in  the  dry  ingredients.  Mix  to  a  soft  dough,  adding  more  flour  if  necessary.  Roll 
half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  in  rounds.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Or,  leave  out  one 
or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  flour  and  drop  from  a  teaspoon.  Shape  into  rounds; 
dredge  with  sugar  and  bake. 

69 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredie?its 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE,  MARSHMALLOW  FROSTING 

Y2  cupful  Crisco  2  cupfuls  barley  or  oat  flour 

1Y  cupfuls  sifted  brown  sugar  Y  cupful  rice  or  corn  flour 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light  Y2  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

4  ounces  chocolate,  melted  Y  teaspoonful  cloves 

Y  cupful  sifted  brown  sugar  Yl  teaspoonful  salt 

Y  cupful  boiling  water  1  teaspoonful  soda 

Y  cupful  sour  milk  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

2  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 

Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  half  the  first  quantity  of  sugar  into  the  Crisco,  the  other 
half  into  the  yolks,  then  beat  the  two  together.  Melt  the  chocolate  (over  boil- 
ing water),  add  the  half  cupful  of  brown  sugar  and  boiling  water  and  stir  until  well 
mixed,  then  add  to  the  first  mixture  with  the  sour  milk;  add  the  flour  sifted  with 
the  spices,  salt,  soda  and  baking  powder  and,  lastly,  beat  in  the  whites  of  eggs. 
Bake  in  three  layer-cake  pans;  put  together  and  cover  the  outside  with 

MARSHMALLOW  FROSTING 

1  cupful  honey,  or  3  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 

\Y  cupfuls  granulated  sugar  Y  pound  fresh  marshmallows 

Y  cupful  boiling  water  Y%  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract 

Melt  the  sugar  in  the  boiling  water;  wash  down  the  inside  of  the  saucepan,  cover 
and  let  boil  three  minutes;  uncover  and  let.  boil  until  a  little  of  the  syrup  dropped 
into  cold  water  may  be  gathered  in  a  soft  ball  (240  degrees  F.).  Pour  the  syrup 
in  a  fine  stream  on  the  egg  whites,  beating  constantly  meanwhile;  beat  until  some- 
what cooled,  add  the  marshmallows,  each  cut  in  quarters,  and  the  flavoring,  and 
use  as  above.   With  the  honey,  omit  the  water. 


70 


SOFT  MOLASSES  COOKIES 


1  cupful  Crisco 
1  cupful  brown  sugar 
cupfuls  molasses 
1  egg,  beaten  light 
1  cupful  thick  sour  milk 
1  tablespoonful  lime  water 


1  cupful  wheat  flour 

2  cupfuls  barley  flour 
2  teaspoonfuls  soda 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon 
1  tablespoonful  ginger 
1  teaspoonful  salt 


Cream  the  Crisco;  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar  (rolled  and  sifted  if  necessary), 
add  the  molasses,  egg  and  milk,  and  stir  in  the  dry  ingredients  sifted  together. 
More  flour  will  be  needed;  add  enough  to  make  a  dough  that  may  be  rolled  out; 
cut  into  thick  rounds  and  bake  in  well-Criscoed  tins  in  a  quick  oven.  To  keep  the 
cookies  soft  add  no  more  flour  than  is  needed  for  shaping.  By  chilling  the  mix- 
ture overnight  less  flour  will  be  needed  in  handling  the  cookies.  To  make  half 
the  recipe  use  the  whole  of  a  small  egg  or  take  either  the  white  or  the  yolk  of  a 
larger  egg. 

HONEY  COOKIES 


3^2  cupful  Crisco 

%  cupful  granulated  sugar 

3^2  cupful  honey 

grated  rind  1  lemon 

1  egg  and  1  yolk 

2  cupfuls  barley  flour 


1  cupful  or  more  wheat  flour 
4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
1  teaspoonful  salt 
chopped  almonds  (about  12) 
1  egg  white  and  granulated  sugar 
(for  glazing) 


Beat  the  Crisco  to  a  cream  and  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar  and  the  honey;  add 
the  lemon  rind,  the  egg  and  yolk  beaten  together  and  the  flour  sifted  with  the  bak- 
ing powder  and  salt  and  mix  to  a  dough  that  may  be  kneaded.  More  flour  may 
be  required.  Knead  a  portion  of  the  dough  on  a  floured  board,  roll  into  a  thin 
sheet  and  cut  into  rounds;  rub  over  a  baking  pan  with  Crisco,  set  the  cookies  in 
place,  brush  them  with  the  egg  white  reserved  for  the  purpose  and  slightly  beaten, 
then  sprinkle  with  the  chopped  nuts,  dredge  with  sugar  and  bake  to  an  amber 
color.  - 


DATE  COOKIES 

3^2  cupful  Crisco  1  cupful  wheat  flour 

%  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  barley  flour 

1  egg,  beaten  light  3^  cupful  rice  or  corn  flour 

grated  rind  1  lemon  or  orange  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Y2  cupful  milk  Yi  teaspoonful  salt 

3^2  pound  dates 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

Cream  the  Crisco  and  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar;  add  the  egg  and  grated  rind. 
Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  and  add  to  the  first  mixture,  alter- 
nately, with  the  milk.  Chill  the  dough  if  convenient.  More  flour  may  be  needed. 
The  cookies  should  not  spread  in  baking.  Take  the  dough  on  a  floured  board  a 
little  at  a  time,  knead  slightly,  roll  thin  and  cut  in  rounds.  Lift  half  the  rounds 
to  a  baking  sheet,  spread  with  the  stoned  dates  cooked  with  the  sugar  and  chopped; 
brush  the  edge  with  water,  cover  with  the  other  half  of  the  cakes,  pressing  the 
edges  together  closely,  dredge  with  granulated  sugar.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Figs  or  canned  pineapple  (grated)  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  dates. 

71 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CORN  MEAL  AND  ROLLED  OATS  COOKIES 


1  cupful  corn  meal  Y2  cupful  Crisco 

1  cupful  rolled  oats  1  teaspoonful  soda 

1  cuDful  molasses  1  cupful  buckwheat  flour 

1  teaspoonful  salt  Yi  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

1  cupful  sour  milk  34  teaspoonful  ginger 

Heat  the  corn  meal,  the  rolled  oats,  the  molasses,  the  salt,  and  the  milk  together, 
stirring  the  mixture  constantly  until  it  becomes  a  thick  paste.  Remove  it  from  the 
fire  and  add  the  Crisco  and  the  sifted  soda,  flour,  and  spices.  Allow  the  mixture  to 
stand  until  it  is  cold.  Roll  it  thin,  cut  it  with  a  small  cutter,  and  bake  the  cookies 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

COCOANUT  DROP  COOKIES 

Y  cupful  Crisco  Y  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  maple  syrup  1  cupful  buckwheat  flour 

Y  cupful  sour  milk  Y  cupful  corn  flour 
34  teaspoonful  soda  Y  cupful  cocoanut 

1  teaspoonful  baking  powder  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Cream  the  Crisco,  add  the  syrup,  and  then  the  milk  and  the  sifted  dry  ingredi- 
ents. Add  the  cocoanut  and  the  vanilla  last.  Let  the  mixture  stand  for  20  minutes 
before  baking,  since  it  thickens  on  standing.  Drop  it  by  spoonfuls  on  a  Criscoed 
tin.  Bake  the  cookies  in  a  rather  quick  oven  until  they  are  a  light  brown.  When 
fresh  they  taste  somewhat  like  macaroons. 

ROLLED  OATS  AND  BUCKWHEAT  DROP  COOKIES 

Y  cupful  Crisco  2  cupfuls  buckwheat  flour 

Y  cupful  molasses  Y  teaspoonful,  each,  of  nutmeg  and 

Y  cupful  maple  syrup  cloves 

Y  cupful  sour  milk  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  teaspoonful  soda  2  cupfuls  rolled  oats 
3^2  teaspoonful  salt  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Y2  cupful  raisins 

Cream  the  fat;  add  the  liquids  and  the  dry  ingredients,  which  have  been  sifted 
together.  Then  add  the  rolled  oats,  the  vanilla,  and  the  raisins.  Drop  the  mix- 
ture by  spoonfuls  on  Criscoed  pans,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

3^2  cupful  Crisco  2  tablespoonfuls  milk 

Yi  cupful  sugar  2  cupfuls  rye  or  barley  flour 

3^2  cupful  maple  or  corn  syrup  Y  teaspoonful  soda 

2  ounces  chocolate,  melted  Y  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
1  egg,  well  beaten  3^2  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  Crisco  and  beat  in  the  other  ingredients  in  the  order  enumerated, 
mixing  and  sifting  the  soda,  cinnamon,  and  salt  with  the  flour.  Chill  the  dough  in 
the  refrigerator;  roll  and  cut  in  small  cakes.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

72 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all-  ingredients 


BARLEY  MAPLE  COOKIES 

1  cupful  barley  flour  1  egg,  beaten  light 

34  cupful  cornstarch  cupful  maple  syrup 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon  34  cupful  brown  sugar 

34  teaspoonful  salt  3  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco 

lYl  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  2  tablespoonfuls  sour  milk 

34  teaspoonful  soda  3^2  cupful  chopped  nuts  or  raisins 

Mix  and  sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  To  the  egg  add  the  other  liquid 
ingredients  and  stir  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  nuts  or  fruit,  mixed  with  a 
little  flour,  last.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  Criscoed  tins.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  If 
not  stiff  enough  to  hold  the  shape,  add  a  little  more  flour. 

OATMEAL  FRUIT  COOKIES 

J4  cupful  Crisco  x/2  cupful  milk 

cupful  sugar  2  cupfuls  rolled  oats 

1  cupful  chopped  raisins,  dates,  2  cupfuls  barley  flour 

or  figs  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  egg,  beaten  light  %  teaspoonful  soda 

2  ounces  chocolate,  melted  2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon 

Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  in  the  sugar  and  fruit;  add  the  egg,  the  chocolate,  milk, 
oats,  and  flour  sifted  with  the  other  ingredients.  Drop  with  a  teaspoon  on  a  Cris- 
coed baking  sheet  and  shape  into  smooth  rounds.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  An 
additional  spoonful  of  milk  may  be  needed.   The  recipe  makes  about  36  cookies. 

PEANUT  FLOUR  DROP  COOKIES 

4  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  V/2  cupfuls  barley  flour 

1  egg,  beaten  light  1  teaspoonful  salt 

%  cupful  sugar  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1J/2  cupfuls  peanut  flour  1  tablespoonful  lime  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  milk 

Beat  half  of  the  sugar  into  the  Crisco  and  the  other  half  into  the  egg  and  beat  the 
two  together.  Add  the  flour  sifted  with  the  salt  and  baking  powder,  and  the  lime 
water.  If  too  stiff  to  shape,  add  the  milk.  Drop  on  Criscoed  tins  and  shape  with 
a  teaspoon.    Bake  about  10  minutes. 

BUCKWHEAT  COOKIES 

Y2  cupful  Crisco  grating  orange  rind,  or 

1  cupful  sugar  34  teaspoonful  mace 

2  eggs,  beaten  light  13^2  cupfuls  buckwheat  flour 

1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

Mix  in  the  order  enumerated,  knead  slightly,  roll  and  cut  in  shapes.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven.  A  little  sugar  dredged  on  the  cakes  before  baking  improves  the 
appearance,  but  is  an  unnecessary  addition. 

RASPBERRY  JAM  JUMBLES 

Roll  the  dough  for  rich  buckwheat  cookies  into  a  sheet,  cut  part  of  it  into  rounds, 
and  then  cut  an  equal  number  of  rings;  set  the  rounds  in  a  Criscoed  baking  pan; 
spread  them  with  raspberry  jam  and  set  the  rings  above;  brush  over  the  top  of  the 
rings  with  white  of  egg,  beaten  slightly,  sprinkle  with  cocoanut  and  granulated 
sugar  and  bake  till  done. 

73 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


BARLEY  HERMITS 

y%  cupful  Crisco  34  cupful  corn  flour 

Y  cupful  sugar  Yi  teaspoonful  soda 
%  cupful  seeded  raisins,  chopped  Y2  teaspoonful  salt 

1  egg,  beaten  light  3^2  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
Yi  cupful  molasses                                3^2  teaspoonful  ginger 

2  cupfuls  barley  flour  Y  teaspoonful  clove 

Cream  the  Crisco,  beat  in  the  sugar,  raisins,  egg,  molasses,  and  flour  sifted  with 
the  soda,  salt,  and  spices.  Add  more  flour  if  needed.  Knead  slightly  and  roll 
into  a  sheet,  cut  into  rounds;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

OATMEAL  DROP  CAKES 

Y  cupful  Crisco  1  egg  and  1  yolk 

Y2  cupful  sugar  34  cupful  sweet  milk 

Yi  cupful  raisins  1  cupful  barley  flour 

Y  cupful  nut  meats  34  teaspoonful  soda 
1  cupful  rolled  oats  Y2  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  Crisco,  beat  in  the  sugar,  the  raisins  and  the  nut  meats  chopped 
together  and  the  rolled  oats;  beat  the  egg  and  yolk,  add  the  milk,  and  stir  into 
the  first  mixture,  alternately,  with  the  barley  flour  mixed  and  sifted  thoroughly 
with  the  soda  and  salt.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  onto  a  Criscoed  pan,  allowing  one 
and  one-half  inches  between  each  cake,  make  smooth  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

POTATO  CAKE 

1  cupful  Crisco  1  cupful  fine-chopped  nuts 

1  teaspoonful  salt  grated  rind  1  lemon 

cupfuls  sugar  1  cupful  wheat  flour 

3  egg  yolks,  beaten  light  %  cupful  rice  flour 

1  cupful  riced  potato  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cupful  sweet  chocolate  grated  3  egg  whites,  beaten  light 

Cream  the  Crisco  and  salt;  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar,  egg  yolks,  riced  potato, 
chocolate,  nuts,  and  lemon  rind;  add  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder,  and, 
lastly,  the  whites.  Bake  in  three  layer-cake  pans,  well-Criscoed,  about  15  minutes. 
Put  the  layers  together  with  fruit  jelly  and  cover  the  outside  with 

MOCHA  FROSTING 

54  cupful  Crisco  2  cupfuls  confectioners'  sugar 

Y  teaspoonful  salt  strong  black  coffee 

Cream  the  Crisco  with  the  salt;  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar,  then,  drop  by  drop, 
coffee  to  tint  and  flavor  as  desired. 

DELICATE  MUFFINS 

4  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  1  cupful  oat  or  barley  flour 
34  cupful  sugar  Y  cupful  (generous)  rice  flour 
1  egg,  beaten  light  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
Y±  cupful  milk  Y2  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  Crisco,  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar  and  the  egg;  add  the  milk,  alter- 
nately, with  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt  sifted  together.  Bake  about  25 
minutes  in  a  hot  well-Criscoed  iron  muffin  pan. 

74 

Use  level  measurements 
{or  all  ingredients 


ORANGE  GOLD  CAKE 


34  cupful  Crisco 

}/2  cupful  sugar 

4  egg  yolks 

grated  rind  1  orange 

}i  teaspoonful  salt 

34  cupful  milk 

}/2  cupful  sifted  wheat  flour 

34  cupful  corn  or  potato  flour 


2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

FROSTING 

1  cupful  sugar 

34  cupful  boiling  water 

2  egg  whites 

Y2  teaspoonful  orange  extract 
34  teaspoonful  almond  extract 


Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  in  the  sugar,  the  yolks,  beaten  light,  the  grated  rind 
and  salt,  and,  alternately,  the  milk  and  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  a  round  Criscoed  pan  (seven  inches  in  diameter)  about  twenty  minutes. 
When  the  cake  is  cold,  invert  it  and  cover  the  surface  with  the  frosting.  Melt  the 
sugar  in  the  water,  wash  down  the  inside  of  the  pan,  cover  and  let  cook  three  or 
four  minutes,  then  uncover  and  let  cook  until  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed  when  the 
syrup  is  tested  in  cold  water.  Pour,  in  a  fine  stream,  on  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
very  light,  beating  constantly  meanwhile;  continue  to  beat  until  cold,  add  the 
flavoring  and  use  as  above. 


75 


GINGERBREAD  (barley  flour,  rice  flour) 

Y  cupful  Crisco  Y  cupful  rice  flour 
Y2  cupful  sugar                                   Y  teaspoonful  salt 

Y  cupful  molasses  1  tablespoonful  ginger 

2  ounces  chocolate,  melted  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  cupful  thick  sour  milk  Y  teaspoonful  cloves 

\Y  cupfuls  barley  flour  1  teaspoonful  soda 

1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  in  the  sugar,  molasses,  chocolate,  and  milk;  add  the  other 
ingredients,  sifted  together;  bake  in  a  shallow  Criscoed  pan. 

GINGERSNAPS 

1  cupful  Crisco  1  tablespoonful  ginger 

1  cupful  molasses  Y  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  1  teaspoonful  soda 

1  egg,  beaten  light  23^2  cupfuls  barley  or  oat  flour 

Put  the  Crisco,  molasses  and  sugar  over  the  fire  to  melt  the  Crisco  and  sugar, 
then  let  boil  about  six  minutes  after  boiling  begins.  When  cooled  somewhat 
(lukewarm)  add  the  egg,  with  the  ginger,  salt,  soda,  and  flour  sifted  together;  stir 
to  a  dough,  adding  wheat  flour  as  required.  Knead  on  a  board,  roll  into  a  thin 
sheet,  cut  into  rounds  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Let  the  first  three  ingre- 
dients boil  until  a  little  of  the  mixture  dropped  into  cold  water  may  be  gathered  into 
a  soft  ball. 

COFFEE  GINGERBREAD 

¥2  cupful  Crisco  1Y  cupfuls  oat  or  barley  flour 

Y  cupful  sugar  Y  cupful  rice  or  corn  flour 
1  egg,  beaten  light  1  teaspoonful  soda 

3^2  cupful  molasses  1  teaspoonful  ginger 

Y  cupful  strong  coffee  Y  teaspoonful  salt 
Y2  teaspoonful  cinnamon  Y  teaspoonful  clove 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner,  adding  the  coffee,  alternately,  with  the  flour  sifted 
with  the  spices,  soda,  and  salt.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan.  When  convenient,  it  may 
be  finished  with 

TIME-CONSERVATION  FROSTING 

Put  Y%  a  cupful  of  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  1  white  of  egg  in  a  small 
double  boiler  over  water  at  the  boiling  point.  Beat  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  exactly 
seven  minutes.  Flavor  to  taste  and  spread  over  the  gingerbread.  This  frosting  is 
always  a  success. 

LEMON  NUT  CAKE 

Y  cupful  Crisco  Y  cupful  rice  flour 

1Y  cupfuls  sugar  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

4  egg  yolks,  beaten  light  Y  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  water  4  egg  whites 

2  cupfuls  wheat  flour  Y  teaspoonful  lemon  extract 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner.  Bake  in  a  large  shallow  pan  about  30  minutes.  When 
the  batter  is  in  the  pan,  sprinkle  over  the  top  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  nuts  and 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar;  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  may  be 
added  with  the  sugar  if  desired.    To  serve,  cut  in  cubes. 

76 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


* 


JELLY  ROLL 

2  eggs,  beaten  light  1%  cupfuls  potato  flour 

1  cupful  granulated  sugar  ±3^>  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

grated  rind  1  lemon  teaspoonful  salt  , 

}/i  cupful  hot  water  currant  jelly 

1  tablespoonful  Crisco  confectioner's  sugar 

Gradually  beat  the  sugar  into  the  eggs,  add  the  grated  rind,  the  Crisco  melted 
in  the  hot  water  and  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder  and  salt.  Beat 
all  together  thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  shallow  pan  lined  with  a  well-Criscoed 
paper.  Bake  about  eighteen  minutes,  turn  at  once  onto  a  clean  cloth,  trim  off 
the  crisp  edges  on  the  four  sides,  spread  with  jelly  and  roll  over  and  over,  keep- 
ing the  cloth  between  the  fingers  and  the  cake.  Roll  the  roll  of  cake  in  the  cloth. 
When  ready  to  serve,  sift  confectioner's  sugar  over  the  top  of  the  cake.  One  cupful 
barley  or  oat  flour  or  3^  cupful  rice  or  corn  flour  may  be  used  in  this  recipe. 


77 


FRUIT  COCOA  CAKES 

3^2  cupful  Crisco  5  level  tablespoonfuls  barley  flour,  or 

1  cupful  sifted  brown  sugar  3  tablespoonfuls  rice  or  corn  flour 

34  cupful  cocoa  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  cupful  dried  fruit  34  teaspoonful  clove 

3  eggs,  beaten  light  3^  teaspoonful  salt 

3^2  cupful  water  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cupful  wheat  flour 

Beat  the  Crisco  to  a  cream;  gradually  beat  in  the  cocoa,  then  the  fruit.  Use 
currants,  raisins,  or  citron,  or  a  mixture  of  them.  Raisins  should  be  seeded,  and 
if  large,  cut  in  two  or  three  pieces,  each.  Add  the  beaten  eggs,  and,  alternately, 
the  water  and  dry  ingredients  (sifted  together).  Bake  in  one  dozen  small  tins. 
Cover  with  frosting  made  of  maple  syrup  or  brown  sugar. 

CHOCOLATE  ALMOND  FILLING 

2  squares  chocolate  1  cupful  milk 
34  cupful  almond  paste  34  cupful  sugar 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

Heat  the  chocolate,  almond  paste,  and  milk  in  a  double!boiler;  gradually  beat  the 
sugar  into  the  beaten  yolks;  stir  the  sugar  and  yolks  in  the  hot  mixture  until  the 
whole  is  smooth  and  thickened;  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  cold. 

FRANGIPANE  CREAM 

1  cupful  scalded  milk  3  tablespoonfuls  crushed  macaroons 

%  cupful  granulated  sugar  1  tablespoonful  maraschino  cher- 

cupful  flour  ries,  chopped 

34  teaspoonful  salt  %  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract 

3  egg  yolks,  beaten  light  34  teaspoonful  lemon  or  orange  ex- 
1  tablespoonful  butter  tract 

Mix  and  sift  the  sugar,  flour,  and  salt  together;  stir  and  cook  in  the  hot  milk 
until  smooth  and  thick.  Cover  and  let  cook  20  minutes,  stirring  occasionally; 
beat  in  the  yolks,  first  diluting  them  with  a  little  of  the  hot  mixture;  let  cook  two 
or  three  minutes;  add  the  butter,  macaroons,  and  cherries,  and,  when  cooled  some- 
what, the  extract. 

STRAWBERRY  AND  CREAM  FILLING  FOR  SPONGE 

LAYER  CAKE 

1  cupful  heavy  cream  juice  Yi  lemon 

J4  cupful  strawberry  preserves 
Beat  the  cream  and  lemon  juice  till  firm;  fold  in  the  strawberry  preserves. 

STRAWBERRY  AND  CREAM  FILLING  NO.  2 

1  cupful  heavy  cream  1  egg  white,  beaten  light 

}/%  cupful  sugar  %  cupful  strawberries 

}/2  teaspoonful  vanilla  or  orange  extract 

Beat  the  cream  firm;  beat  in  the  sugar;  fold  in  the  egg  white,  the  strawberries, 
crushed,  and  the  flavoring. 

78 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


FRENCH  CRULLERS  NO.  1 

34  cupful  Crisco  1  cupful  barley  flour 

Yi  cupful  and  2  tablespoonfuls  water     2  tablespoonfuls  corn  flour 

34  teaspoonful  salt  4  eggs 

(For  directions  as  to  mixing  and  frying  see  below) 

FRENCH  CRULLERS  NO.  2 

34  cupful  Crisco  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

1  cupful  boiling  water  Yi  cupful  barley  flour 
Yi  teaspoonful  salt  34  cupful  corn  flour 

3  eggs 

Melt  the  Crisco  in  the  water;  add  the  salt,  and,  when  the  liquid  boils,  stir  in 
the  flour  and  continue  to  cook  and  stir  until  the  mixture  forms  a  smooth,  thick 
paste;  turn  into  a  bowl  and  beat  in  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  in  each  egg  very 
thoroughly.  Drop  by  the  teaspoonful  into  hot  Crisco  and  fry  as  any  doughnuts. 
Drain  on  soft  paper  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  These  crullers  should  be 
made  smaller  than  when  wheat  flour  (which  expands  more)  is  used.  If  made  too 
large  the  hollow  center  will  be  lacking. 

EASY  CAKE 

2  whole  eggs  23^  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
2  extra  egg  yolks  Yl  teaspoonful  salt 

Y%  cupful  sugar  Yl  cupful  milk 

1  cupful  wheat  flour  }/&  cupful  melted  Crisco 

Y  cupful  rice  flour  Y2  teaspoonful  lemon  extract 

Beat  the  eggs  all  together  until  very  light,  and  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar.  Mix 
and  sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt;  add  to  the  first  mixture,  alter- 
nately, with  the  milk,  then  add  the  Crisco  and  extract.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan. 
Cover  with 

CORN  SYRUP  ICING 

1  tablespoonful  corn  syrup  sifted  confectioner's  sugar 

4  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water  Y2  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract 

Add  the  boiling  water  to  the  syrup  and  beat  in  the  sugar  one-fourth  a  cupful 
at  a  time,  beating  hard  between  each  addition;  the  frosting  should  be  thickened  by 
beating  as  well  as  by  the  sugar. 

CHOCOLATE  BROWNIES 

Y2  cupful  Crisco  Yi  cupful  wheat  flour 

%  cupful  granulated  sugar  Yl  cupful  barley  flour 

2  squares  melted  chocolate  34  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

2  eggs,  beaten  light  34  teaspoonful  almond  extract 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract 

1  cupful  blanched  almonds 

Cream  the  Crisco  and  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar;  beat  in  the  chocolate,  eggs, 
and  salt;  mix  and  sift  together  the  flour  and  cinnamon  and  add  to  the  first  mixture 
with  the  extract.  Have  ready  the  almonds  cut  in  pieces  and  browned  in  the  oven; 
beat  them  into  the  mixture.  Drop  on  buttered  sheets  with  a  teaspoon.  Bake 
about  10  minutes. 

79 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


ATLANTICS 


1  egg  yolk 

3^  cupful  Crisco,  melted 
Y2  cupful  molasses 
}/2  cupful  boiling  water 
1  teaspoonful  soda 
1  tablespoonful  ginger 

FROSTING 

%  cupful  sugar  12  fresh  marshmallows 

4  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

1  egg  white  cocoanut  if  desired 

Beat  the  egg  yolk  and  add  it  to  the  Crisco,  molasses,  and  water;  sift  the  soda, 
ginger,  salt  and  flour  into  the  first  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly;  let  chill  in 
the  refrigerator,  then  roll  into  a  sheet  and  cut  into  rounds.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  More  flour  may  be  needed.  The  cakes  should  not  spread  in  cooking 
but  should  be  as  soft  as  possible.  For  the  frosting  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  boil- 
ing water;  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers,  wet  repeatedly  in  cold  water,  wash  down 
the  sides  of  the  pan,  cover  and  let  the  syrup  boil  three  minutes,  uncover  and  let 
boil  until  when,  tested  in  cold  water,  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed.  With  a  ther- 
mometer cook  to  238°  or  240°  F.  Pour  the  syrup  in  a  fine  stream  on  the  white 
of  egg  beaten  dry,  beating  constantly  meanwhile.  When  all  the  syrup  has  been 
added  to  the  egg,  add  the  marshmallows,  beat  with  a  spoon  until  melted,  then 
beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  very  light,  adding  the  vanilla  meanwhile,  then  spread 
on  the  top  of  the  cakes.    Cocoanut  may  be  added  if  desired. 

The  recipes  for  Date  Cookies  and  Gingersnaps,  also  illustrated,  can  be  found 
on  pages  71,  72. 


Y2  teaspoonful  salt 

V/2  cupfuls  sifted  wheat  flour 

(about) 
1  cupful  barley  flour,  or 
]/2  cupful  corn  flour 


80 


COFFEE  ECLAIRS 


Make  the  eclairs  by  the  recipe  given  on  page  56.  When  baked,  cut  open  on 
one  side  and  insert  in  each  a  generous  teaspoonful  of  coffee  filling.  Spread  the 
smooth  side  with  frosting  made  by  stirring  sifted  confectioner's  sugar  into  one- 
fourth  a  cupful  of  black  coffee. 

COFFEE  FILLING  FOR  ECLAIRS 

l}/2  cupfuls  black  coffee  Y  cupful  sugar 

}/2  cupful  cream  34  teaspoonful  salt 

34  cupful  cornstarch  2  egg  yolks 

34  cupful  sugar 

Scald  the  coffee  and  cream;  mix  and  sift  together  the  cornstarch,  sugar,  and 
salt,  and  stir  into  the  hot  coffee.  Continue  to  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens;  cover 
and  let  cook  15  minutes,  stirring  occasionally;  beat  the  yolks,  add  the  sugar  and 
beat  again,  then  stir  and  cook  in  the  hot  mixture  three  or  four  minutes,  or  until 
the  egg  is  cooked.   Use  when  cold. 


PEACH  SURPRISE 

4  egg  yolks  34  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  sugar  4  egg  whites 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice  1  cupful  corn  flour 
grated  rind  Y2  lemon  10  to  12  peaches 

1  cupful  confectioner's  sugar 

Beat  the  yolks  till  thick;  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar,  the  lemon  juice,  rind,  and 
salt;  fold  in  half  the  whites,  beaten  very  light,  half  of  the  flour,  the  rest  of  the  whites, 
and  flour.  Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  about  50  minutes  in  a  very  moderate  oven, 
increasing  the  heat  slightly  at  the  last  of  the  baking.  Cut  out  the  center  of  the 
cake  to  make  a  hollow  case;  pare  and  slice  the  peaches,  mix  with  the  sugar,  and  use 
to  fill  the  case.  Trim  the  piece  taken  out  to  make  a  thin  sheet  and  set  this  above 
the  peaches.  Serve  with  thin  cream.  This  cake  may  be  made  with  oat  flour  or 
potato  flour.  A  cupful  of  oat  flour  or  a  generous  half  cupful  of  potato  flour  will 
be  required.  With  potato  flour,  five  eggs  and  half  a  cupful  of  flour  give  better 
results. 

FIG  LAYER  CAKE 

Y  cupful  Crisco  ]/2  teaspoonful  salt 

Y%  cupful  sugar  4  egg  whites,  beaten  light 

4  egg  yolks,  well  beaten   

3^  cupful  milk  34  teaspoonful  almond  extract 

1  cupful  wheat  flour  Y2  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract 
Y2  cupful  rice  flour  y2  pound  figs 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  in  the  sugar  and  egg  yolks;  then  add,  alternately,  the 
milk  and  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder  and  salt;  lastly,  fold  in  the  flavoring 
and  egg  whites.  Bake  in  layer-cake  pans.  Cook  the  figs  in  boiling  water  until 
the  skins  are  tender  and  the  liquid  is  evaporated.  Chop  fine  and  let  cook  a  moment 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  Use  between  the  layers.  Fruit  jelly  makes  a  good 
filling  for  the  layers. 

81 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


BOSTON  CREAM  PIE 


cupful  Crisco 
1  egg  yolk 

1  cupful  granulated  sugar  (scant) 

1  cupful  sweet  milk 

2  cupfuls  wheat  flour,  or 


3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
Y2  teaspoonful  salt 
1  egg  white,  beaten  light 


1  cupful  barley  flour 
1  cupful  wheat  flour 


Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  the  egg  yolk  very  light,  beat  half  of  the  sugar  into  each, 
then  beat  the  two  together;  add  the  milk,  alternately,  with  the  flour  sifted  with 
the  salt  and  baking  powder  and,  lastly,  add  the  egg  white.  Bake  in  two  layers; 
put  together  with  chocolate  cream  filling  and  sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  top. 
One-half  cupful  corn  flour  may  replace  the  barley  flour. 


Stir  the  flour  and  cold  milk  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  stir  and  cook  in  the  hot 
milk  until  smooth  and  thick.  Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water;  add  the  sugar 
and  a  little  of  the  hot  mixture;  stir  until  smooth,  then  beat  into  the  rest  of  the 
hot  mixture.  Cover  and  let  cook  ten  minutes.  Beat  the  egg  and  yolk;  add 
the  salt  and  sugar  and  stir  into  the  hot  mixture;  let  cook  until  the  egg  is  "set;" 
let  cool  a  little,  add  the  vanilla  and  use. 


CHOCOLATE  FILLING 


x/l  cupful  flour  or 


cupful  sugar 
1  egg  and  1  yolk 


cupful  cold  milk 

1  cupful  scalded  milk 

2  ounces  chocolate 


82 


COFFEE  FILLING 


1  cupful  strong  black  coffee  4  tablespoonfuls  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  thick  cream  2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 
Yl  cupful  granulated  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  or  }/£  teaspoonful  salt 

Scald  the  coffee  in  a  double  boiler;  add  the  cream  and  stir  in  the  sugar,  mixed 
and  sifted  with  the  cornstarch  or  flour;  continue  to  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens, 
then  cover  and  let  cook,  stirring  occasionally,  15  minutes.  Mix  the  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar  and  the  salt  with  the  beaten  yolks  and  beat  into  the  hot  mixture;  let 
cook  about  two  minutes  or  until  the  egg  is  set. 


CHOCOLATE  FILLING 

3  ounces,  or  squares,  chocolate  1  egg  yolk 

cupful  granulated  sugar  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

3  tablespoonfuls  milk  teaspoonful  salt 

Yi  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract 

Heat  the  chocolate,  sugar,  and  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  beat  the  yolk,  add  the 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  the  salt,  and  beat  again;  mix  and  dilute  with  a 
little  of  the  hot  mixture;  turn  into  the  boiler  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until 
the  mixture  is  smooth  and  the  egg  is  set.   Let  cool  a  little;  add  the  vanilla  and  use. 

HONEY  CREAM  FILLING 

Yl  cupful  honey  1  egg  white 

1  tablespoonful  corn  syrup  (red  1  cupful  thick  cream 

label)  }/l  teaspoonful  lemon  extract 

Put  the  honey,  corn  syrup,  and  egg  white  into  a  small  double  boiler;  have  the 
water  below  boiling  rapidly;  beat  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  seven  minutes;  beat 
occasionally  until  cold;  fold  in  the  cream,  beaten  firm,  and  the  extract. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  AND  PRUNE  FILLING 

1  cupful  heavy  cream  x/i  pound  cooked  prunes 

4  tablespoonfuls  prune  syrup  10  marshmallows 

3  tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar  Y2  teaspoonful  orange  extract 

The  prune  syrup  should  be  quite  thick;  add  it  to  the  cream,  with  the  sugar,  and 
beat  until  firm;  cut  the  prunes  and  marshmallows  in  small  pieces  and  gently  fold 
into  the  cream  with  the  extract. 

ORANGE  FILLING 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  juice  and  grated  rind  1  orange 
2  tablespoonfuls  flour  1  cupful  sugar 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

Cream  the  butter  and  into  it  cream  the  flour.  Heat  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
the  orange  and  the  sugar  in  a  double  boiler;  stir  and  cook  the  butter  and  flour  in 
the  liquid  until  it  thickens;  cover  and  let  cook,  stirring  occasionally,  15  minutes; 
beat  in  the  egg  yolks. 

83 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


LEMON  QUEEN  CAKES 


¥2  cupful  Crisco  1  cupful  wheat  flour 

}/2  lemon,  grated  rind  3  tablespoonfuls  corn  flour 

yg  cupful  granulated  sugar  34  teaspoonful  soda 

4  egg  yolks  3^2  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice  4  egg  whites,  beaten  light 

Cream  the  Crisco  with  the  grated  lemon  rind;  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar,  the 
yolks,  beaten  light,  and  the  lemon  juice;  beat  in  the  flour,  sifted  with  the  soda  and 
salt;  beat  in  the  egg  whites.  Bake  in  cup-cake  tins  about  25  minutes.  Fifteen  tins 
will  be  needed.  For  a  change,  before  baking,  set  a  piece  of  orange  rind,  from  the 
marmalade  jar,  on  the  top  of  the  dough  in  each  tin;  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

2  squares  chocolate  3^  cupful  milk 

2  egg  yolks  1  cupful  barley  flour 
}/2  cupful  milk                                     3^  cupful  rice  flour 

1  cupful  sugar  y%  teaspoonful  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  melted  Crisco  1  teaspoonful  soda 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler;  add  the  yolks  and  milk,  and  stir  and  cook 
until  smooth.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  other  ingredients;  beat  until 
smooth.  Bake  in  two  la3^ers.  Put  the  layers  together  and  cover  the  top  with  a 
boiled  frosting  flavored  with  vanilla. 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

34  cupful  Crisco  2  squares  chocolate,  melted 

34  teaspoonful  salt  2  cupfuls  barley  flour 

3  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

]/2  cupful  maple  syrup  3^  cupful  milk 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light  2  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner,  in  the  order  enumerated.    Bake  in  a  shallow  pan. 


CREAM  CAKES  IN  SURPRISE 

Bake  the  recipe  for  sponge  jelly  roll  in  small,  round,  deep  tins  (cup  or  queen  cake 
tins).  Cut  out  a  piece  from  the  top  of  each  cake  to  leave  an  edge  all  around  the  top 
of  the  cake  of  one-third  an  inch;  remove  the  center  of  each  cake  to  form  a  cup. 
In  the  bottom  of  the  cup  set  a  spoonful  of  fruit  jelly  or  strawberry  preserves.  Above 
this  set  whipped  cream;  trim  the  piece  of  cake  taken  out  to  make  a  cover  one-fourth 
an  inch  thick;  set  in  place  and  chill  before  serving. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE  NO.  2 

Bake  cake  made  by  the  recipe  for  jelly  roll  (page  77)  in  two  small  layer-cake 
pans.  Hull,  wash,  drain,  and  cut  in  halves  one  basket  of  strawberries;  mix  them 
with  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  let  stand  while  the  cake  is  baking.  Use  between  and 
above  the  layers. 

84 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CROQUINS  (rice  flour,  almond  paste) 

3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  34  cupful  chopped  almonds 
34  cupful  sugar  cupful  wheat  flour 

}A  cupful  grated  almond  paste  3  tablespoonfuls  rice  flour 

4  egg  yolks,  beaten  light  %  teaspoonful  soda 

1  tablespoonful  sweet  milk  3^2  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  in  the  sugar,  almond  paste,  egg  yolks,  milk,  and  almonds. 
Sift  the  other  ingredients  together  and  stir  into  the  first  mixture.  Set  aside  in  a 
cool  place  two  or  three  hours.  Using  as  little  flour  as  possible,  roll  into  a  sheet  one- 
third  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into  rounds  or  squares.  Brush  over  with  egg  white, 
slightly  beaten;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  chopped  almonds.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  to  a  straw  color. 

CRISCO  MACAROONS 

2  egg  yolks,  hard-cooked  34  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
J/2  cupful  Crisco  1  cupful  wheat  flour 

}/2  teaspoonful  salt  }/§  cupful  rice  flour 

3^2  cupful  sugar   

34  cupful  blanched  almonds  1  egg  white 

grated  rind  1  lemon  1  tablespoonful  granulated  sugar 

Drop  the  egg  yolks  into  boiling  water  and  keep  the  water  hot,  but  not  boiling,  till 
the  yolks  are  firm  throughout.  Cream  the  Crisco;  add  the  yolks,  pressed  through 
a  sieve,  and  beat  in  thoroughly;  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar,  the  almonds,  and  the 
spices  mixed  and  sifted  with  the  flour.  Break  the  dough  into  pieces  the  size  of  a 
hickory  nut,  roll  into  balls  in  the  hands,  and  press  on  a  Criscoed  baking  pan  into 
flat  rounds  the  size  and  shape  of  a  macaroon.  Brush  over  with  slightly-beaten 
egg  whites,  dredge  with  sugar,  and  bake  to  an  amber  shade.  This  will  make  thirty 
macaroons. 

APPLE  CAKE 

3^  cupful  Crisco  3^  cupful  milk 

%  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  pastry  flour 

grated  rind  1  lemon  %  cupful  white  corn  flour 

2  eggs,  beaten  light  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

3^2  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  Crisco,  beat  in  the  sugar  and  grated  rind,  the  eggs,  and,  alternately, 
the  milk  and  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder  and  salt.  Bake  in  layer 
pans.  Put  the  layers  together  with  apple  filling  and  sift  confectioner's  sugar  on 
top,  very  lightly. 

APPLE  FILLING 

1  large  apple,  grated  1  egg,  beaten  light 

juice  1  lemon  1  tablespoonful  Crisco 

54  cupful  sugar  34  teaspoonful  salt 

Heat  the  apple,  lemon  juice  and  part  of  the  sugar  in  a  double  boiler;  add  the 
rest  of  the  sugar  to  the  egg  and  stir  into  the  hot  mixture;  continue  to  stir  until 
the  mixture  thickens,  then  beat  in  the  Crisco  and  salt;  let  chill  a  little  and  it  is 
ready  to  use. 

85 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


BLUEBERRY  PUDDING 

Line  a  pudding  dish  with  slices  of  stale  bread  spread  lightly  with  Crisco,  and 
sprinkled  with  a  few  grains  of  salt;  fill  the  dish  with  blueberries  mixed  with  a  little 
sugar.  Cover  the  berries  with  slices  of  bread  spread  on  both  sides  with  Crisco, 
and  sprinkled  with  salt.  Cover  the  dish,  set  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  let  bake 
about  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Remove  the  cover  to  brown  the  pudding. 
Serve  hot,  with  hard  sauce  or  sugar  and  rich  milk. 


OATMEAL 

4  oatmeal  crackers 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

3^2  teaspoonful  salt 


CRACKER  PUDDING 

2  egg  yolks 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
2  cupfuls  milk 


MERINGUE 

2  egg  whites  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  honey  or  maple  syrup 

Crush  the  crackers  fine;  add  the  other  ingredients  and  bake  in  a  Criscoed  dish 
until  firm  in  the  center  (about  30  minutes).  Spread  a  little  fruit  jelly  over  the  top 
of  the  pudding.  Beat  the  whites  very  light;  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar  and  spread 
over  the  jelly.  Let  cook  in  a  very  moderate  oven  about  12  minutes.  The  meringue 
should  not  brown  till  the  last  of  the  cooking,  and  then  very  delicately. 


POOR  MAN'S  RICE  PUDDING 

3^  cupful  rice  3^  teaspoonful  salt 

3^  cupful  sugar  1  quart  milk 

1  tablespoonful  Crisco  1  cupful  raisins 

3^2  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg 
Blanch  or  wash  the  rice;  mix  with  the  other  ingredients  except  the  nutmeg. 
Let  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  an  hour  and  a  half  or  longer.  Stir  each  ten  min- 
utes during  the  first  hour  of  cooking.  Add  more  milk  as  needed.  The  pudding  is 
just  right  when  each  grain  of  rice  is  tender,  but  not  broken,  and  is  surrounded  with 
creamy  milk  thickened  by  slow  cooking.  Grate  the  nutmeg  over  the  top  on  remov- 
ing the  pudding  from  the  oven.  Best  when  halfway  cold.  By  using  more  Crisco, 
the  pudding  is  good  if  made  of  skimmed  milk. 

OATMEAL  DATE  PUDDING 

23^2  cupfuls  boiling  water  1  cupful  rolled  oats 

1  tablespoonful  Crisco  3^2  cupful  maple  syrup 

3^2  teaspoonful  salt  1  cupful  dates,  cut  in  small  pieces 

1  egg,  beaten  light 

Have  the  water  boiling  rapidly  directly  over  the  fire;  stir  in  the  Crisco,  salt, 
and  oats,  and  continue  to  stir  while  cooking,  rapidly,  five  minutes.  Cook  over 
boiling  water  one  hour;  add  the  syrup,  dates,  and  beaten  egg.  Bake  in  a  Criscoed 
baking  dish,  in  a  moderate  oven,  about  30  minutes. 

86 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


SAVARIN 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  4  eggs 

cupful  lukewarm  water  1  dozen  blanched  almonds 

1%  cupfuls  rye  flour 

Y2  cupful  wheat  flour  apricot  sauce 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt  y±  can  apricots 

1  tablespoonful  sugar  \y2  cupfuls  sugar 

Y%  cupful  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
Crisco 

Crumble  the  yeast  cake  into  the  water  and  stir  in  enough  of  the  flour  to  make 
a  dough;  knead  the  little  ball  of  dough  until  smooth  and  elastic;  cut  half  through 
the  ball  of  dough  in  both  directions  and  drop  it,  into  a  bowl  of  lukewarm  water; 
set  the  bowl  in  a  warm  place  that  the  yeast  may  work.  Put  the  salt,  sugar,  Crisco 
and  two  of  the  eggs  into  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  beat  with  the  hand  until  smooth, 
then  add  the  other  two  eggs,  one  at  a  time;  beat  in  the  first  egg  thoroughly  before 
the  last  one  is  added.  By  this  time  the  ball  of  dough  should  be  floating  on  the 
water,  light  and  porous  as  a  " sponge;*'  with  a  skimmer  (to  take  no  water)  lift  the 
sponge  to  the  Crisco-egg  mixture  and  again  beat  until  very  smooth.  Have  ready 
a  "Turk's  head"  mold,  holding  one  quart,  rubbed  over  with  Crisco  and  the  Crisco 
sprinkled  with  the  almonds,  chopped  fine;  turn  in  the  mixture,  let  stand  in  a  warm 
place  until  the  mold  is  filled  to  nearly  half  an  inch  of  the  top.  Bake  about  half 
an  hour.  Have  ready  the  apricots  pressed  through  a  sieve  (use  apricots  and  syr- 
up) ;  add  the  sugar  and  let  boil  about  six  minutes.  Turn  the  hot  Savarin  upon 
a  serving  dish  and  over  it  pour  the  hot  sauce;  baste  the  cake  with  the  sauce  until 
the  sauce  is  largely  absorbed,  then  serve  as  a  dessert  dish.  It  may  be  eaten  cold 
but  is  better  hot.  In  the  country  where  this  dessert  originated,  rye  flour  was 
always  used,  and  the  half  cup  of  wheat  flour  may  be  replaced  by  the  same  meas- 
ure of  rye. 


87 


STEAMED  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

3^2  cupful  Crisco  %  cupful  soft,  sifted  bread  crumbs 

%  cupful  sugar  %  cupful  barley  flour 

3  ounces  melted  chocolate  3^  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  chopped  raisins  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2  eggs,  beaten  light  %  cupful  milk 

Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  in  the  sugar,  melted  chocolate,  raisins,  eggs,  and  crumbs; 
add  the  flour,  sifted  with  the  salt  and  baking  powder,  alternately,  with  the  milk. 
Turn  into  a  well-Criscoed  mold,  steam  two  hours.   Serve  with 

CRISCO  HARD  SAUCE 

Y2  cupful  Crisco  1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  or 

V/%  cupfuls  confectioner's  sugar  3^2  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  or 

3^2  teaspoonful  salt  both 
Cream  the  Crisco  and  gradually  beat  in  the  other  ingredients. 

CHOCOLATE  COTTAGE  PUDDING 

cupful  Crisco  %  cupful  milk 

3^2  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  barley  flour 

2  ounces  melted  chocolate  34  cupful  rice  flour 

1  egg,  beaten  light  2  3^2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

3^2  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  butter;  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar,  chocolate,  and  egg;  add  the  milk, 
alternately,  with  the  dry  ingredients  sifted  together.  Bake  in  a  muffin  pan  or  in 
a  shallow  biscuit  pan.    Serve  with 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

%  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  boiling  water 

2  teaspoonfuls  cornstarch  34  cupful  cocoa 

34  teaspoonful  salt  3^  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Sift  the  sugar,  cornstarch,  and  salt  into  a  saucepan;  add  the  boiling  water  and 
stir  until  the  whole  is  boiling;  let  boil  ten  minutes;  add  the  cocoa;  let  boil  one  minute, 
then  cool  a  little;  add  the  vanilla  and  it  is  ready  to  use. 

DRIED-APPLE  OR  PEACH  COBBLER 

13^2  cupfuls  dried  apples  or  3^  cupful  sugar 

peaches  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon  or  nutmeg 

Remove  imperfections  and  parts  of  core,  if  present,  from  each  slice  of  apple. 
Wash  carefully,  drain,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  let  soak  overnight.  Cook  in 
the  same  water  until  the  fruit  is  tender  and  the  water  is  evaporated.  Turn  the 
apple  into  a  baking  dish;  sprinkle  on  the  sugar  and  spice;  cover  with  a  crust  made 
as  follows.   Bake  until  well  browned.   Serve  hot  with  sugar  and  milk. 

CRUST  FOR  DRIED-FRUIT  COBBLER 

1  cupful  barley  or  oat  flour  2}A  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2  tablespoonfuls  rice  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 
3^  teaspoonful  salt  3^  cupful  milk  or  water 

Mix  and  sift  flour  with  salt  and  baking  powder;  cut  in  the  Crisco,  mix  with  a 
knife  to  a  soft  dough;  spread  with  spoon  or  knife  over  the  fruit. 

88 

Use  level  measurements 
{or  all  ingredients 


CORN  MEAL  SOUFFLE 


1  cupful  thin  corn  meal  mush  4  egg  yolks 

¥  teaspoonful  salt  34  cupful  sugar 

2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  4  egg  whites,  beaten  very  light 

The  mush  should  be  very  thoroughly  cooked;  add  the  salt,  Crisco,  and  eggs, 
beaten  and  beaten  again  with  the  sugar,  and  fold  in  the  whites.  Bake  in  a  Cris- 
coed  baking  dish  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  about  25  minutes.    Serve  hot  with 


CREAMY  SAUCE 

1  cupful  sugar  1  egg  white,  beaten  light 

¥  cupful  water  1  cupful  thin  cream,  scalded 

¥i  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract 

Cook  the  sugar  and  water  to  the  thread  stage;  pour  on  the  egg  white,  beating 
meanwhile;  beat  in  the  cream  and  vanilla.    Serve  hot. 


MOCK  INDIAN  PUDDING 

Spread  any  variety  of  bread,  cut  in  slices,  with  Crisco,  and  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt; 
pile  the  slices  together  and  cut  the  whole  into  half-inch  cubes.  There  should  be  two 
cupfuls  (heaped)  of  cubes.  Put  the  prepared  bread  in  a  baking  dish;  pour  over  it 
one  quart  of  milk  mixed  with  one  cupful  of  molasses,  a  tablespoonful  of  ginger, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  thoroughly.  Bake  two  or  three  hours  in  a  very 
slow  oven.  The  pudding  should  whey,  or  present  a  liquid  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 
Serve  with  milk  and  sugar. 


BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING 

2  cupfuls  milk,  scalded  2  tablespoonfuls  Crisco 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn  meal  ¥  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  cold  water  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  cupful  molasses  1  teaspoonful  ginger 

2  eggs  ¥  cupful  cold  milk 

Stir  the  corn  meal,  mixed  with  the  cold  water,  into  the  hot  milk  and  continue  to 
stir  until  the  mixture  thickens;  add  all  the  other  ingredients  except  the  cold  milk, 
mix  thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  Criscoed  baking  dish.  Bake  half  an  hour;  turn 
on  the  cold  milk  and  let  bake  without  stirring  two  hours.  The  oven  should  be 
very  moderate.    Good  with  ice  cream,  hard  sauce,  sugar,  and  milk. 


STEAMED  BLUEBERRY  PUDDING 

¥  cupful  Crisco  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

¥2  cupful  sugar  ¥  teaspoonful  salt 

2  egg  yolks  ¥  cupful  milk 

\¥i  cupfuls  barley  or  oat  flour  2  egg  whites 

¥2  cupful  rice  flour  1  cupful  blueberries 

Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  in  the  sugar  and  yolks;  add  the  flour  with  the  baking 
powder  and  salt,  alternately,  with  the  milk;  beat  in  the  whites  and  berries.  Steam 
in  a  Criscoed  mold  one  hour  and  a  half.  Serve  hot  with  blueberries  stewed  with  a 
little  sugar. 

89 

Use  level  measure  merits 
for  all  ingredients 


CORN  CAKE  PUDDING 


1  cupful  corn  cake  crumbs  }/i  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

}/2  teaspoonful  salt  3^  cupful  molasses 

3^2  teaspoonful  ginger  1  egg,  beaten  light 

2  cupfuls  sweet  milk 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  (the  crumbs  should  be  fine).   Let  bake  in  a  very  moderate 
oven  until  firm  in  the  center.    Serve,  cooled  slightly,  with  hard  sauce,  or  cream 
from  the  top  of  the  milk  bottle,  and  sugar. 


PLUM  PUDDING  CROQUETTES 

2  cupfuls  milk  1  egg 

3^3  cupful  citron,  cut  fine  1  egg  yolk 

3^$  cupful  seeded  raisins  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

34  cupful  currants  34  teaspoonful  mace 

2  tablespoonfuls  orange  rind  from  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

marmalade  jar   

\Yi  cupfuls  soft  bread  crumbs  1  egg 

2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  4  tablespoonfuls  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  fine  soft  crumbs 

34  teaspoonful  salt 

Put  the  milk,  citron,  raisins,  currants,  and  orange  rind  in  a  double  boiler  over 
the  fire,  and  let  cook  about  ten  minutes;  add  the  crumbs,  and  stir  in  the  cornstarch 
mixed  and  sifted  with  the  sugar  and  salt;  continue  to  cook,  and  stir  until  the  mix- 
ture thickens,  then  cover  and  let  cook  20  minutes;  add  the  eggs,  beaten  and  mixed 
with  the  sugar  and  mace,  and  let  cook  until  the  egg  is  set;  add  the  vanilla  and  turn 
on  a  Criscoed  plate.  When  cool,  shape  into  croquettes.  Roll  in  fine  crumbs,  then 
cover  with  the  egg  beaten  and  mixed  with  the  milk,  and  again  roll  in  crumbs;  fry 
in  Crisco;  drain  on  soft  paper.    Serve  hot  with  any  pudding  sauce. 

RICE  CAKES 

Blanch  or  wash  three-fourths  a  cupful  of  rice;  return  to  the  fire  with  about  three 
cupfuls  of  skimmed  milk  and  three-fourths  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  let  cook  until  the 
rice  is  tender  and  the  milk  is  absorbed.  When  cooled  a  little,  shape  with  the  hands 
wet  in  cold  water  into  flat,  round  cakes;  pat  in  corn  meal  and  saute  in  a  little  hot 
Crisco  until  well  colored  on  one  side;  turn  to  brown  the  other  side.  Serve  with  a 
spoonful  of  jam  or  marmalade  on  the  top  of  each  cake.  Maple  syrup,  honey,  or 
sugar  may  replace  the  preserve. 


ENGLISH  PUDDING 

34  cupful  Crisco  1  cupful  barley  flour 

}/2  cupful  stoned  raisins  3^  cupful  rice  flour 

cut  in  halves  3^2  teaspoonful  soda 

3^  cupful  molasses  34  teaspoonful  cloves 

J/2  cupful  milk  3^  teaspoonful  mace 

}/2  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  Crisco;  beat  in  the  raisins  and  molasses;  add  the  milk,  alternately, 
with  the  flour  sifted  with  the  soda,  spices,  and  salt;  steam  in  a  Criscoed  mold  about 
three  hours.    Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce. 

90 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


CRAB  MEAT  SALAD 


To  the  recipe  for  cooked  salad  dressing,  add  a  little  more  mustard  and  paprika. 
Set  the  crab  meat  on  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce  hearts,  and  serve  the  dressing  in  a  sep- 
arate bowl. 

TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  CABBAGE  AND 

PEPPERS 

Remove  the  skin  from  choice  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  out  a  piece  around  the  stem 
end  and  remove  the  seeds;  turn  upside  down  and  let  chill.  Cut  a  new  cabbage 
in  very  fine  shreds.  Also  shred  a  green  or  red  sweet  pepper.  Chill  each  separately 
in  ice  water.  Dry  on  a  cloth  and  mix  with  either  Crisco  mayonnaise  or  cooked 
dressing.  Use  enough  dressing  to  hold  the  shreds  together  in  a  creamy  state. 
Season  the  inside  of  the  tomatoes  with  salt  and  pepper  and  fill  with  the  mixture. 
Serve  on  a  bed  of  garden  cress. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBER  SALAD 

2  cucumbers  1  branch  parsley 

1  tomato  2  olives 

slice  onion  3^  CUP  (about)  mayonnaise  dress- 
1  stalk  (white)  celery  ing  with  Crisco 

Cut  the  ends  from  the  cucumbers,  pare  them,  cut  them  in  halves  lengthwise, 
and  remove  the  seeds.  Set  them  aside  in  ice-water  an  hour  or  longer.  Chop  the 
solid  part  of  the  tomato,  the  onion,  celery,  parsley,  and  olives;  mix  with  the  dress- 
ing, and  use  to  fill  the  cucumbers.  Serve  the  cucumbers  on  a  bed  of  garden  or 
water  cress. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING  WITH  CRISCO 

1  cupful  Crisco,  unmelted  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light  34  teaspoonful  paprika 

1  teaspoonful  mustard  34  teaspoonful  black  pepper 

4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar 

Beat  the  Crisco  to  a  cream,  very  gradually  beat  in  the  yolks,  then  the  season- 
ings and,  lastly,  drop  by  drop,  the  vinegar. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD 

1  small  head  cooked  cauliflower  34  cupful  cream,  beaten  firm 

1  head  lettuce  3^  teaspoonful  curry  powder 

1  cupful  cooked  salad  dressing  34  teaspoonful  mustard 

Separate  the  cooked  cauliflower  into  flowerets  and  trim  the  stems  neatly.  When 
making  the  dressing  add  the  curry  powder  and  a  little  more  mustard  than  is  given 
in  the  recipe  for  the  dressing.  When  the  dressing  is  cold,  fold  in  the  cream  and 
pour  over  the  cauliflower  set  in  the  heart  leaves  of  the  lettuce. 

91 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


SPINACH  SALAD 


Cold  cooked  spinach  for  eight  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  gherkins 

small  molds  1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley 

1  cupful  Crisco  mayonnaise  1  teaspoonful  scraped  onion  pulp 

2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  olives  1  tablespoonful  chopped  capers 

The  quantity  of  spinach  needed  will  vary  with  the  condition  of  the  spinach. 
Cook  with  as  little  water  as  possible,  drain  and  chop  exceedingly  fine.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Rub  the  inside  of  the  molds  with  Crisco,  and  into  them  press  the 
spinach.  Let  stand  to  chill  and  become  firm.  Unmold  on  lettuce  leaves,  either 
with  or  without  a  slice  of  cold  boiled  tongue.  The  olives,  gherkins,  parsley  and 
capers  should  be  chopped  exceedingly  fine.  Mix  these  with  the  onion  through  the 
dressing.  Set  a  generous  teaspoonful  of  dressing  above  or  around  the  spinach. 
Young  beet  greens  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


CHICKEN,  RICE,  AND  CELERY  SALAD 

2  cupfuls  cubes  of  chicken  salt  and  paprika  if  needed 

1  cupful  cold  boiled  rice  1  bunch  cress,  or  \  -f           ■  . 

/     •     j-    •    ^\  *  i     j  i               >  it  convenient 


(grains  distinct)  1  head  lettuce 

1  cupful  sliced  celery  (crisp  13^2  cupfuls  Crisco  mayonnaise 

heart  stalks)  (less,  without  cress  or  lettuce) 

Mix  the  chicken,  rice,  and  celery,  add  salt  and  pepper  if  the  articles  were  not 
seasoned  during  cooking.  Mix  with  enough  dressing  to  hold  the  ingredients 
together  loosely.  Less  chicken  may  be  used.  Shrimps  may  be  used  in  place  of 
chicken. 

EGG  SALAD,  CRISCO  MAYONNAISE 

1  head  lettuce  4  to  6  hard-cooked  eggs 

about  %  cupful  mayonnaise  made  with  Crisco 

Wash  the  lettuce  leaves  under  the  cold  water  faucet,  let  drain,  set  aside  in  a 
covered  dish  to  chill  and  crisp.  Cover  the  eggs  with  boiling  water,  let  stand, 
covered,  on  the  back  of  the  range,  without  boiling,  20  minutes.  Draw  to  a  hotter 
place  and  quickly  heat  to  the  boiling  point.  Let  boil  one  minute,  remove  at  once 
from  the  water,  rinse  in  cold  water  and  chill.  Cut  the  eggs  in  even  slices.  Dis- 
pose on  the  lettuce,  carefully  dried;  pour  the  dressing  over  the  whole  and  serve 
at  once. 

COOKED  SALAD  DRESSING 

3  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  1  cupful  cold  water 

teaspoonful  mustard  2  egg  yolks,  beaten  light 

teaspoonful  paprika  1  tablespoonful  vinegar 

1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 

Melt  the  Crisco;  add  the  flour  and  seasonings  and  cook  until  frothy;  add  the 
water  and  stir  constantly  until  boiling;  beat  the  vinegar  and  lemon  juice  into 
the  yolks,  then  stir  into  the  hot  mixture,  and  continue  to  stir  and  cook  without 
boiling  until  the  egg  is  set.  Use  when  cold  either  with  or  without  the  addition 
of  one-fourth  a  cupful  of  thick  cream  beaten  very  light.  The  cream  is  an  improve- 
ment. 

92 

Use  level  measurements 
for  all  ingredients 


VEGETABLE  MACEDOINE  SALAD 

1  cupful  string  beans  in  half-inch  1  cupful  kohl-rabi  in  half-inch 

slices  cubes,  or 

1  cupful  peas  1    cauliflower    separated  into 

1  cupful  carrots  in  half-inch  cubes  small  bits 

Season,  separately  or  all  together,  with  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one 
or  two  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika;  let  stand 
in  a  cool  place  an  hour  or  longer;  drain  and  shape  in  one  mound  or  in  separate 
mounds;  set  a  spoonful  of  Crisco  mayonnaise  at  the  top  of  each  single  mound  or  a 
larger  quantity  at  the  top  of  the  large  mound. 

LOUIS  SALAD 

2  apples  crisp  inner  stalks  of  celery 
¥2  lemon,  juice  Crisco  mayonnaise 
canned  or  fresh  pineapple  1  head  lettuce 

Pare  and  core  the  apples,  cut  in  strips  about  an  inch  long  and  one-fourth  an 
inch  thick  and  wide,  squeeze  the  lemon  juice  over  the  pieces  of  apple  to  keep  them 
white;  cut  the  pineapple  and  celery  in  similar  shreds.  Mix  with  enough  Crisco 
mayonnaise  (page  91)  to  hold  the  materials  together.  Serve  in  the  heart  leaves 
of  the  lettuce  carefully  washed  and  dried. 

NUT,  GREEN-PEA-AND-POTATO  SALAD 

Use  pecan  nut  meats;  cut  each  nut  at  the  grooves  to  make  three  lengthwise 
shreds.  Cut  the  potatoes  in  half-inch  cubes.  Take  equal  measures  of  nuts,  peas 
and  potatoes,  mix  with  cooked  salad  dressing  made  with  Crisco.  With  a  table- 
spoon, take  the  salad  in  a  round  mass  and  set  in  heart  leaves  of  lettuce  (individual 
portions).    Set  half  a  pecan  nut  meat  on  the  top  of  each  portion. 

TOMATO  SALAD 

Peel  the  tomatoes;  cut  out  the  hard  piece  around  the  stem,  and  let  chill.  When 
ready  to  serve,  cut  in  slices,  and  set  them  on  heart  leaves  of  lettuce,  carefully 
w?ashed  and  dried.  Prepare  mayonnaise  dressing  with  Crisco  (page  91)  and  beat 
into  it  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  horseradish,  then  fold  in  half  a  cupful 
of  cream  whipped  very  stiff.  Serve  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  dressing  on  each 
slice  of  tomato. 

TOMATO  SALAD  WITH  ONION 

Prepare  and  slice  the  tomato  as  before;  scrape  a  tablespoonful  of  onion  juice  and 
pulp  from  an  onion  cut  in  halves  crosswise,  and  beat  it  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
fine-chopped  parsley  into  a  cupful  of  "Mayonnaise  Dressing  with  Crisco"  (page 
91).    Serve  set  above  the  slices  of  tomato. 

SALMON  SALAD 

1  head  lettuce  1  cupful  green  peas 

1  can  salmon  or  1  lb.  fresh  sal-  1  cupful  Crisco-cooked  or  mayon- 

mon  naise  dressing 

Separate  the  salmon  into  flakes,  and  set  it  carefully  into  nests  of  lettuce,  on 
individual  plates;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  the  cold  peas  above  the  fish  and  the  dress- 
ing above  the  peas. 

93 

Use  level  measurement, 
fur  all  ingredients 


BREADS 

PAGE 


Bannock,  Oat   27 

Biscuits,  Barley-and-Rice-Flour   24 

Biscuits,  Barley-and-Wheat-Baking  Powder.  24 

Biscuits,  Barley,  Drop   24 

Biscuits,  Barley,  Yeast,  Liberty   23 

Biscuits,  Potato    24 

Biscuits,  Rye  Meal   23 

Bread,  Barley  (2  loaves)   14 

Bread,  Bran   18 

Bread,  Corn   20 

Bread,  Corn  Meal,  One  Loaf   16 

Bread,  Date,  Steamed   16 

Bread,  Graham  and  Barley   14 

Bread,  Oatmeal,  White   14 

Bread,  Rolled  Oats   16 

Bread,  Potato  (2  loaves)   14 

Bread,  Raisin,  One  Loaf   15 

Bread,  Rye  (2  loaves)   16 

Bread,  Virginia  Spoon  Corn   9 

Breakfast  Cake,  Prune   29 

Buns,  War  Time  Philadelphia  Butter    ...  27 

Coffee  Cake   17 

Crust,  Corn   29 

Crust  for  Meat  Pie   26 

Doughnuts.  Barley  Nut   29 

Doughnuts,  Potato-and-Barley   28 

Fritters,  Lenten   29 

Griddlecakes,  Buckwheat,  Quick   25 

Griddlecakes,  Corn  Flake   25 

Griddlecakes,  Oatmeal   25 

Griddlecakes,  Rice,  Plain   25 

Griddlecakes,  Rice,  Wheatless  (no  milk)  .   .  25 

Griddlecakes,  Sour  Milk   26 

Griddlecakes,  War  Time   26 

Johnnycake   31 

Muffins,  Barley-and-Rice   19 

Muffins,  Barley  Meal   21 

Muffins,  Bran   19 

Muffins,  Buckwheat   21 

Muffins,  Cheese   19 

Muffins,  Delicate  Corn  Meal   19 

Muffins,  Michigan   21 

Muffins,  Canadian  Oat   21 

Muffins,  Oatmeal-and-Corn-Meal   23 

Muffins,  Oatmeal  Mush   19 

Muffins,  Cooked  Rice  (12  muffins)   23 

Muffins,  Rye  Meal   21 

Muffins,  War  (no  wheat)   23 

Pancakes,  Indian,  Thick   27 

Pone,  Corn,  Southern   31 

Pop-Overs,  G'raham-and-Barley   22 

Pop-Overs,  Rye  Meal   21 

Puffs,  Rice   24 

Rolls,  Parker  House   iS 

Sandwiches,  Conservation,  No.  1   18 

Sandwiches,  Conservation,  No.  2   iS 

Sticks,  Barley-and-Corn-Meal   31 

Sticks,  Corn  Meal   31 

Sticks,  Other  Corn  Meal   31 


PAGE 


Tea  Cake,  Cooked  Rice-and-Corn-Meal    .   .  27 

Waffles   .  30 

Waffles,  Barley   26 

Waffles,  Rice.'   26 


CAKES 

Atlantics   80 

Brownies,  Chocolate   79 

Cake,  Apple   85 

Cake,  Chocolate   84 

Cake,  Chocolate   84 

Cake,  Chocolate,  Marshmaliow  Frosting    .    .  70 

Cake,  Easy   79 

Cake,  Emily's  White   6S 

Cake,  Fig  Layer   Si 

Cakes,  Fruit  Cocoa   78 

Cake,  Lemon  Nut   76 

Cake,  Orange  Gold   75 

Cake,  Potato   74 

Cakes,  Cream,  in  Surprise   84 

Cakes,  Lemon  Queen   S4 

Cakes,  Drop,  Oatmeal   74 

Cookies,  Barley  Flour   69 

Cookies,  Barley  Maple   73 

Cookies,  Buckwheat   73 

Cookies,  Chocolate   72 

Cookies,  Drop,  Cocoanut   72 

Cookies,  Corn  Meal  and  Rolled  Oats.   ...  72 

Cookies,  Date   71 

Cookies,  Honey   71 

Cookies,  Oatmeal  Fruit   73 

Cookies,  Drop,  Peanut  Flour   73 

Cookies,  Plain  Soft  Molasses   69 

Cookies,  Potato   69 

Cookies,  Drop,  Rolled  Oats  and  Buckwheat  .  72 

Cookies,  Drop,  Rolled  Oats  and  Corn  Flour.  69 

Cookies,  Soft  Molasses   71 

Cream  Pie,  Boston   S2 

Croquins  (rice  flour,  almond  paste)     ....  85 

Crullers,  French,  No.  1   79 

Cruilers,  French,  No.  2   79 

Eclairs,  Coffee   81 

Filling,  Apple,  for  Apple  Cake   85 

Filling,  Chocolate    83 

Filling,  Chocolate,  Almond   78 

Filling,  Chocolate,  for  Boston  Cream  Pie  .   .  82 

Filling,  Coffee   83 

Filling,  Coffee,  for  Eclairs   Si 

Filling,  Honey  Cream   S3 

Filling,  Orange   83 

Filling,  Strawberry  and  Cream,  for  Sponge 

Layer  Cake   78 

Filling,  Strawberry  and  Cream,  No.  2    .   .   .  78 

Filling,  Whipped  Cream  and  Prune  ....  S3 

Frangipane  Cream   78 

Frosting,  for  Atlantics   So 

Frosting,  Chocolate   68 

Frosting,  Mocha,  for  Potato  Cake   74 


PAGE 


Frosting,    Time-Conservation,    for  Coffee 

Gingerbread   76 

Gingerbread  (barley  flour,  rice  flour) ....  76 

Gingerbread,  Coffee   76 

Gingersnaps   76 

Hermits,  Barley   74 

Icing,  Corn  Syrup,  for  Easy  Cake   79 

Jelly  Roll   77 

Jumbles,  Raspberry  Jam   73 

Macaroons,  Crisco   85 

Muffins,  Delicate   74 

Peach  Surprise   81 

Shortcake,  Strawberry   60 

Shortcake,  Strawberry,  No.  2   84 

CEREALS 

Balls,  Farina  or  Hominy   46 

Boulettes,  Hominy   48 

Corn  Meai  with  Cheese   46 

Hominy  and  Cheese,  Scalloped   48 

Mush,  Fried  Corn  Meal   46 

Oatmeal  and  Peanut  Cakes,  Baked    ....  48 

Oatmeal  with  Cheese   46 

Oatmeal,  Rice  or  Hominy,  Fried   46 

Soy  Bean  Loaf   48 

CHEESE 

Biscuit,  Cheese   32 

Cheese  Ramekins   33 

Cream  Toast,  Corn  Bread,  with  Cheese    ,   .  34 

Croquettes,  Cheese   35 

Fondue,  Cheese   34 

Fritters,  Cheese  and  Rice   34 

Fritters,  Tomato  and  Cheese   32 

Gnocchi  a  la  Romanie   32 

Rabbit,  Tomato   33 

Souffle,  Cheese   34 

Souffle,  Cheese  and  Corn  Cake   33 

Sauce,  Cream  (for  corn    bread    toast  with 

cheese)   34 

Sauce,  Cheese  (for  rice,  onions,  asparagus, 

potato,  fish)  33 

Timbales,  Cheese   33 

EGGS 

Cutlets,  Conservation   12 

Eggs,  Curried   12 

Eggs,  Fried   11 

Eggs,  Fried,  with  Hashed  Meat   13 

Eggs,  in  Cups  with  Fine  Herbs   13 

Eggs,  in  Nests   11 

Eggs,  in  Onion  Puree   13 

Eggs,  Scrambled,  with  Peas   10 

Eggs,  Shirred,  with  Creamed  Asparagus  tips  .  12 

Eggs,  Spanish   10 

Eggs,  with  Cream  and  Cheese   10 

Eggs,  with  Dried  Beef   12 

Eggs,  with  Mushrooms   11 

Omelet,  French,  with  Creamed  Asparagus    .  11 

Omelet,  Potato  and  Egg   10 

Omelet,  Sardine   13 

FISH 

Baked  Fish,  Parsley  and  Potatoes   38 

Balls,  Finnan  Haddie   37 


PA 

Bass,  or  other  fresh  water  fish,  Baked  in  Milk 

Filets  of  Fish,  Florentine  Style  

Filets  of  Fish,  Fried  

Haddock  or  Cod,  Baked  with  Tomato    .   .  . 

Little  Fish  Pies  

Little  Fish  Pies,  Cottage  Style  

Mackerel,  Broiled  

Roe,  Shad,  Baked  

Sauce,  Tomato,  for  Filets  of  Fish  

Souffle,  Fish  and  Potato  

Swordfish  or  Halibut,  Saute  


MEATS 

Chicken,  Curried  

Chicken,  Maryland  

Chicken  Pilau  

Croquettes,  Chicken  

Croquettes,  Conservation  

Cutlets,  Lamb,  Breaded,  Inexpensive  .   .   .  . 

Dumplings  

Fowl,  How  to  Cook  

Lamb  en  Casserole  

Lamb,  Fore  Quarter,  Steamed  

Meat  Pie  

Pigeons,  Stewed  

Pot  Pie,  Chicken,  with  Dumplings    .   .   .  . 

Sausage,  Oxford  

Shortcakes,  Individual,  Chicken  ...... 

Steak,  Planked,  Hamburg  

Turkish  Pilaf,  with  Flank  of  Lamb    .   .   .  . 

PASTRY 

Boats,  Banana  

Cherries,  with  Crusts  

Cheese  d'Artois  

Cheese  Cakes  

Cheese  Straws  

Cream,  English,  for  Eclairs  

Dumplings,  Apple  

Eclairs,  Chocolate  (chou  paste)  

Eggs  a  la  St  Jacques  

Filling,  Lemon,  for  Individual  Lemon  Pie  . 

Frosting,  Confectioners'  Chocolate  

Hearts,  Pastry  

Meringue  for  Lemon  Pie  

Meringue  for  Lemon-Whey  Pie  

Pastry,  Barley-and-Potato  

Pastry,  Barley  and  Wheat  

Pastry,  Corn-Flour-and-Rice-Flour  

Pastry,  Plain  

Pie  Crust,  Wheatless  

Pie,  Blueberry,  with  Meringue  

Pie,  Cherry  

Pie,  Chocolate  

Pie,  Cottage  Cheese  

Pie,  Cottage  Cheese,  No.  2  

Pie,  Custard  

Pie,  Dried  Apple  

Pie,  Dried  Apple  No.  2  

Pie,  Fig  

Pie,  Fig  (with  two  crusts)  

Pie,  Gooseberry  

Pie,  Green  Currant  

Pie,  Green  Tomato  

Pie,  Lemon  Cheese  


PAGE 


Pie,  Lemon,  Individual   58 

Pie,  Lemon,  with  Meringue   57 

Pie,  Lemon  (with  two  crusts)   63 

Pie,  Lemon-Whey   63 

Pie,  Mother's  Apple   61 

Pie,  Pineapple   58 

Pie,  Pineapple,  English   63 

Pie,  Pumpkin   58 

Pie,  Raisin   58 

Pie,  Rhubarb   59 

Pie,  Rhubarb  and  Raisin   61 

Pie,  Sour  Cream   59 

Pie,  Sweet  Potato   59 

Strips,  Almond   64 

Tartlets,  Currant  Jelly,  Covered   54 

Tartlets,  Open  Fruit   55 

Tarts,  Lemon   65 

Tarts,  Melba   65 

Tarts,  Strawberry   65 

Tarts,  Strawberry,  No.  2   65 

PUDDINGS 

Cobbler,  Dried  Apple  or  Peach   88 

Croquettes,  Plum  Pudding   90 

Crusts,  for  Dried  Fruit  Cobbler   88 

Meringue,  for  Oatmeal  Cracker  Pudding  .   .  86 

Pudding,  Blueberry   86 

Pudding,  Blueberry,  Steamed   89 

Pudding,  Chocolate  Cottage   «   88 

Pudding,  Steamed  Chocolate   88 

Pudding,  Corn  Cake   90 

Pudding,  English   90 

Pudding,  Baked  Indian   89 

Pudding,  Mock  Indian   89 

Pudding,  Oatmeal  Cracker   86 

Pudding,  Oatmeal  Date   86 

Pudding,  Poor  Man's  Rice   86 

Rice  Cakes   90 

Sauce,    Chocolate,   for    Chocolate  Cottage 

Pudding   88 

Sauce,  Creamy,  for  Corn  Meal  Souffle  ...  89 
Sauce,  Crisco,  Hard,  for  Steamed  Chocolate 

Pudding   88 


PAGE 

Savarin   87 

Souffle,  Corn  Meal   89 

SALADS 

Dressing,  Cooked  Salad   92 

Dressing,  Mayonnaise,  with  Crisco    ....  91 

Salad,  Cauliflower  ............  91 

Salad,  Chicken,  Rice  and  Celery   92 

Salad,  Crab  Meat   91 

Salad,  Cucumber,  Stuffed   91 

Salad,  Egg,  Crisco  Mayonnaise   92 

Salad,  Louis   93 

Salad,  Nut,  Green-Pea-and-Potato   93 

Salad,  Salmon   93 

Salad,  Spinach   92 

Salad,  Tomato   93 

Salad,  Tomato,  with  Onion  .   .   93 

Salad,  Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Cabbage  and 

Peppers   91 

Salad,  Vegetable  Macedoine   93 

VEGETABLES 

Carrots,  Flemish   53 

Cauliflower,  with  Onion  Sauce   53 

Chowder,  Corn-and-Tomato   50 

Delicata,  Creamed   51 

Green  Peppers,  Stuffed  and  Baked   49 

Hash,  Vegetable   50 

Leeks,  Bianca  Style   53 

Loaf,  Potato-Peanut   50 

Pie,  Shepherd's   52 

Potato  Cakes  (left-over  mashed  potato)  ...  52 

Potatoes,  French  Fried    47 

Potatoes,  Scalloped   51 

Scrapple,  New  England   52 

Souffle,  Potato   51 

Souffle,  Spinach  and  Cheese   50 

Soup,  Simple,  Potato.   51. 

Summer  Squash,  Saute   53 

Tomatoes,  Broiled,  for  Planked  Steak    ...  51 

Tomatoes,  Stuffed   53 

Tomatoes,  Stuffed  with  Oysters   52 

Tripe  and  Onions   52 


96 


