WAR-TIME  COOKERY 


PRACTICAL  RECIPES   DESIGNED  TO  AID 
IN  THE  CONSERVATION  MOVEMENT 


Compiled  and  Edited 

by 

MISS     EDITH     BLACKMAN 

Department  of  Household  Arts 
Michigan  State  Normal  College 


Printed  by 

THE   YPSILANTI   PRESS 

Ypsilanti,  Michigan 


\5 


^v^ 
^^b 


Copyright   1917 
by 
MISS  EDITH  BLACKMAN 
Ypsilanti.   M:chigan 

TRAK3F£Ra£0  FSO« 


^^W  17/3/8 


FOOD  CONSERVATION 


Let  us  remember  tliat  every  flag  that  flies  opposite  the  German 
one  is,  by  proxy,  the  American  flag,  and  that  the  armies  fighting  in  our 
defense  under  these  flags  cannot  be  maintained  thro  the  winter  unless 
there  is  food  enough  for  them  and  for  their  women  and  children  at 
home.  There  can  only  be  food  enough  if  America  provides  it.  America 
can  provide  it  only  by  the  personal  service  and  co-operation  of  all.  The 
small  daily  substitution  can  be  done  by  all ;  the  saving  in  waste  by  the 
majority  and  the  lessening  food  consumed  by  many." 

This  little  book  is  not  published  as  a  cook  book  in  the  sense  that  it 
covers  all  phases  of  cookery.  It  is  the  outcome  of  an  earnest  desire  to 
know  how,  in  the  average  home,  one  may  conserve  some  materials  and 
substitute  others  for  those  needed  most  by  our  men  and  Allies,  without 
radically  changing  the  daily  menu  or  method  of  living.  By  giving  the 
matter  earnest  thought  we  may  easily  plan  for  seven  wheatless,  four- 
teen meatless,  and  twenty-one  wasteless  meals  each  week  and  serve  food 
which  is  attractive,  palatable,  and  sufficient  for  the  daily  needs  of  the 
body.  While  leaving  eggs  and  milk  out  of  many  recipes,  lessens  the 
food  value  of  the  dishes,  this  often  seems  a  wise  elmination.  Eggs, 
when  used,  should  be  looked  upon  as  a  meat  substitute,  and  the  child- 
ren often  need  the  milk. 


|C/.'>>^ 


C 


4  WAR-TIME    COOKERY 

THE  DAY'S  FOOD 

A  man  who  does  fairly  hard  muscular  work  would  be  likely  to 
get  the  food  which  his  body  needs  if  supplied  daily  with  such  a  combi- 
nation of  foods  as  the  following: 
1/4  pounds  of  bread,  having  about  the  same  food  value  as  i  pound  of 

such  cereal  preparations  as  wheat  or  rye  flour,  oatmeal,  cornmeal, 

rice,  etc. 
2  ounces,  or  ^  cup,  of  butter,  oil,  meat  drippings,  or  other  fat. 

2  ounces,  or  ^  cup,  of  sugar;  or  1-3  cup  of  honey,  or  sirup  or  an  equiv- 

alent amount  of  other  sweet. 
1%.  pounds  of  food  from  the  following:    Fresh  fruits  and  green  or  root 

vegetables. 
12  ounces  of  food  from  a  class  which  may  be  called  "meats  and  meat 

substitutes ;"  that  is,  moderately  fat    meats,    poultry,    fish,    eggs, 

cheese,  dried  legumes  (beans,  peas,  lentils,  cowpeas,  and  peanuts). 

Milk  also  belongs  among   these    foods,  but    because  of    the    large 

amount  of  water  it  contains  half  a  glass,  or  4  ounces,  of  it  would 

be  required  to  equal  an  ounce  of  any  one  of  the  others. 

A  man  who  works  hard  out  of  doors  all  day  probably  would  need 
more  food  than  this,  and  one  who  sits  all  day  at  his  desk  would  need 
less.  The  amounts  given  are  suitable  for  a  man  who,  like  a  salesman 
in  a  store,  walks  about  more  or  less  and  does  more  or  less  of  such  work 
as  lifting. 

A  family  consisting  of  a  man  and  a  woman  who  do  moderately 
hard  muscular  work  and  three  children — say,  between  3  and  12  years 
of  age — would  get  the  food  they  require  if  supplied  daily  with: 
4j^  pounds  of  bread,  having  the  same  food  value  as  3  pounds  of  wheat 

or  rye  flour,  oatmeal,  cornmeal  or  hominy,  or  rice ;  or  about  2^ 

pounds  of  cereals  and  5  or  6  medium-sized  potatoes. 
^  cup  of  fat  (butter  or  butter  with  oil,  beef  drippings,  or  other  fat) — 

a  weekly  allowance  of  2j^  to  3  pounds. 
A  little  more  than  i  cup  of  sugar,  or  a  weekly  allowance  of  4  pounds ; 

or  an  equivalent  amount  of  some  other  sweet. 
4  pounds  in  all  of  fresh  fruits  and  fresh  or  root  vegetables. 

One  of  the  two  following,  the  choice  depending  on  the  age  of  the 
children : 

3  quarts  of  milk  and  i  pound  of  other  foods  taken  from  the  meat  and 

meat-substitute  group. 
2  quarts  of  milk  and  i^  pounds  of  other  foods  taken  from  the  meat  and 
meat-substitute  group. 

WHAT  THE  DAY'S  FOOD  SHOULD  PROVIDE 

The  above  meals  would  supply  the  following  substances  in  about 
the  right  proportions  to  keep  the  family  in  healthful  condition  and  to 
make  the  food  taste  good,  providing  they  were  well  prepared. 

A.  Mineral  substances  of  great  variety  (lime  salts,  compounds  of 
phosphorous,  iron,  and  others). — These  are  used  by  the  body  for  build- 


WAR-TIME    COOKERY  3 

ing  material  and  are  found  in  all  parts  of  it.  They  also  produce  sub- 
stances within  the  body  tissues  which  tend  to  offset  acid  substances 
produced  in  the  tissues  in  the  course  of  digestion  of  meats  and  cereals, 
and  serve  many  other  important  uses.  Without  fruits  and  vegetables 
the  meals  would  be  likely  to  lack  certain  mineral  substances.  Without 
milk  they  would  be  lacking  in  a  mineral  substance  specially  needed  by 
children ;  that  is,  lime. 

B.  Protein. — Protein  serves  as  fuel  for  the  body  and  also  pro- 
vides a  certain  important  element,  nitrogen,  which  is  needed  in  the  case 
of  children  for  growth  and  in  the  case  of  both  children  and  grown  peo- 
ple to  keep  the  body  in  repair.  Without  the  meat  or  meat  substitutes 
(including  milk)  the  meals  would  be  lacking  in  this  body-building  ma- 
terial. 

C.  Starch. — This  is  one  of  the  chief  fuels  of  the  body  and  is  sup- 
plied mainly  by  the  cereal  foods. 

D.  Sugar. — This  serves  as  fuel  for  the  body  and  to  flavor  the 
food.  It  is  found  in  milk,  fresh  fruits,  and  many  other  materials,  but 
unless  small  amounts  of  very  sweet  materials — sugar  itself,  sirup,  or 
honey — are  used,  the  diet  is  likely  to  be  lacking  in  it. 

E.  Fat. — This  serves  as  body  fuel  and  also  improves  the  flavor 
and  texture  of  the  food.  It  is  present  in  meats,  nuts,  and  many  other 
foods,  but  unless  small  amounts  of  specially  fat  materials,  like  butter, 
oil,  or  cream,  are  used,  the  meals  are  likely  to  be  lacking  in  it.  More- 
over, dishes  cooked  without  a  certain  amount  of  fat  and  meals  served 
without  butter  or  some  substitute  seem,  to  most  persons,  dry  and  un- 
palatable. 

F.  Cellulose.- — This  is  the  material  which  makes  up  the  frame- 
work of  plants.  It  gives  bulk  to  the  diet  and  may  tend  to  prevent  con- 
stipation. Without  the  fruits  and  vegetables  the  meals  would  be  lack- 
ing in  this  important  element. 

G.  Certain  nezvly  discovered  substances  in  very  small  amounts, 
which  are  believed  to  play  an  important  part  in  keeping  people  well 
and  in  promoting  the  growth  of  children.  Without  milk  in  the  diet 
some  of  these  substances,  particularly  those  necessary  for  children, 
would  be  lacking,  and  without  meat,  milk,  eggs,  fruits,  and  vegetables 
others  needed  by  persons  of  all  ages  might  not  be  present  in  sufficient 
amounts. 

H.  Flavorings  and  condiments. — In  most  families  some  materials 
are  used  in  preparing  or  serving  food  which  add  to  the  attractiveness 
of  the  meals  without  furnishing  the  body  any  nourishment.  Among 
these  are  salt,  pepper,  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  spices,  seasoning  herbs, 
horse-radish,  flavoring  extracts,  and  many  other  materials  often  spoken 
of  as  "condiments."  These  are  not  discussed  at  length,  because  they 
are  not  absolutely  needed  by  the  body.  They  may,  however,  be  very 
useful  in  making  an  otherwise  unattractive  diet  taste  good.  In  fact, 
the  secret  of  making  inexpensive  meals  attractive  lies  largely  in  the 
skillful  use  of  seasoning  and  flavors,  and  in  this  way  they  may  well  be 


WAR-TIME    COOKERY  6 

worth  the  cost  they  add  to  the  diet  even  if  they  do  not  increase  its  actual 
food  value. 

Any  kind  of  food  contains  one  or  more  of  the  substances  just  des- 
cribed, and  they  are  combined  in  as  many  different  ways  as  there  are 
kinds  of  food.  A  satisfactory  diet  contains  all  of  them  and  each  in  its 
proper  proportion,  and  the  problem  of  planning  meals  is  really  that  of 
choosing  foods  which  will  do  this. 

GROUPING  FOODS  TO  SHOW  THEIR  USES 

Group  i. — Foods  depended  on  for  mineral  matters, 
vegetable  acids,  and  body-regulating  substances. 

Fruits :  Vegetables : 

Apples,  pears,  etc.  Salads- — lettuce,  celery,  etc. 

Bananas  Potherbs  or  "greens." 

Berries,  Potatoes  and  root  vegetables. 

Melons.  Green  peas,  beans,  etc. 

Oranges,  lemons,  etc.                            Tomatoes,   squash,  etc. 

Etc.  Etc. 

Group  2. — Foods  depended  on  for  protein. 

Milk,  skim  milk,  cheese,  etc.  Fish. 

Eggs.  Dried  peas,  beans,  cowpeas,  etc. 

Meat.  Nuts. 

Poultry. 

Group  3. — Foods  depended  on  for  starch. 

Cereal  grains,  meals,  flours,  etc.  Cakes,   cookies,    starchy   puddings. 

Cereal  breakfast   foods.  etc. 

Bread.  Potatoes  and  other  starchy  vege- 

Crackers.  tables. 

Macaroni  and  other  pastes. 

Group  4. — Foods  depended  on  for  sugar. 

Sugar,  Candies. 

Molasses.  Fruits  preserved   in  sugar,   jellies. 

Sirups.  and  dried  friuts. 

Honey.  Sweet  cakes  and  desserts. 

Group  5. — Foods  depended  on  for  fat. 

Butter  and  cream.  Salt  pork  and  bacon. 

Lard,  suet,  and  other  cooking  fats.    Table  and  salad  oils. 

Thinking  of  foods  according  to  the  group  to  which  they  belong  or 
according  to  the  nutrient  which  they  supply  in  largest  amount  will  help 
the  housekeeper  to  see  whether  in  the  meals  she  plans  she  has  supplied 
all  the  different  materials  needed,  especially  whether  there  is  the  neces- 


WAR-TIME    COOKEIRY  7 

sary,  though  small,  amount  of  tissue-building  mineral  matters  and  body- 
regulating  materials  (group  i),  and  of  tissue-building  protein  (group 
2).  When  she  has  made  sure  that  these  are  present,  she  may  safely 
build  up  the  bulk  of  the  diet  from  whatever  materials  from  the  other 
groups  that  seem  economical,  wholesome,  and  appetizing.  By  means 
of  this  grouping  she  will  be  reminded  that  meals  consisting  only  of 
cereal  mush  (group  3)  served  with  butter  (group  5)  and  sirup  (group 
4)  would  not  be  a  complete  ration,  and  would  almost  surely  be  lacking 
in  body-building  material,  because  there  are  no  foods  from  either  group 
I  (fruits  and  vegetables)  or  group  2  (protein  rich).  It  will  become 
clear,  also,  that  a  school  lunch  of  a  kind  far  too  frequently  served,  con- 
sisting of  bread  and  cake,  is  lacking  in  the  same  way.  and  that  a  glass 
of  milk  (group  2)  and  an  apple  or  an  orange  (group  i)  would  make 
it  far  more  nearly  complete.  She  w^ill  learn  the  wisdom  of  serving  fruit 
(group  i)  rather  than  a  whipped-cream  dessert  (group  5)  or  a  suet 
pudding  (groups  3  and  5)  after  a  course  including  a  generous  portion  of 
fat  meat  (groups  2  and  5). 

The  grouping  will  also  help  the  housekeeper  who  wishes  to  save 
money  or  time  to  simplify  her  meals  without  making  them  one-sided 
or  incomplete.  For  example,  if  she  has  been  serving  bread,  potatoes, 
and  rice  or  hominy  in  one  meal,  she  will  see  that  one  or  even  two  of 
them  may  be  left  out  without  omitting  any  important  nutrient,  provid- 
ing a  reasonable  quantity  of  the  one  or  two  remaining  is  eaten.  It  will 
show  her  that  a  custard  which  is  made  of  milk  and  eggs,  two  foods 
from  group  2,  would  hardly  be  needed  after  a  meal  in  which  a  liberal 
supply  of  meat  had  been  served,  provided  one  ate  heartily  of  all,  and 
that  a  child  does  not  need  milk  at  the  same  meal  with  an  egg  or  meat. 
It  will  suggest  that  baked  beans  or  other  legumes,  or  thick  soups  made 
of  legumes,  are  substitutes  for  meat  rather  than  foods  to  be  eaten  with 
meat. 

Use  cereals  (flour,  meal,  cereal  breakfast  foods,  etc)  freely,  taking- 
pains  to  prepare  them  with  great  care  and  to  vary  the  kind  used  from 
day  to  day  if  necessary  to  keep  people  from  tiring  of  them. 

Remember  that  a  quart  of  whole  milk  a  day  for  each  child,  to  be 
used  as  a  beverage  and  in  cookery,  is  not  too  much. 

Remember  that  while  skim  milk  should  never  be  substituted  for 
whole  milk  as  the  principal  food  in  a  child's  diet,  it  is  as  valuable  as 
whole  milk  as  a  source  of  protein  and  mineral  matters  in  the  general 
diet. 

Remember  that,  except  in  the  case  of  milk  for  children,  the  amount 
needed  of  foods  specially  useful  for  body-building  purposes — that  is, 
meats  and  meat  substitutes,  fruits,  and  vegetables — is  not  large,  but 
what  is  needed  is  needed  very  much. 

'Do  not  be  ashamed  to  plan  closely.  Thrift  in  food  means  providing: 
enough  food,  neither  too  little  nor  too  much. 

Many  inexpensive  materials  can  be  made  attractive  and  the  diet 
can  be  pleasantly  varied  by  a  wise  use  of  different  flavorings. 


8  WAR-TIME   COOKERY 

"Finicky"  tastes  in  food  often  prevent  the  use  of  many  valuable 
materials  which  might  be  the  means  of  saving  money. 

Good  food  habits  are  an  important  part  of  personal  hygiene  and 
thrift.  Children  get  such  habits  by  having  suitable  amounts  of  suitable 
foods  served  to  them  and  then  being  expected  to  eat  what  is  set  before 
them. 

True  economy  lies  not  only  in  buying  wisely,  but  also  in  making  the 
fullest  possible  use  of  what  is  bought. 

From  Farmers'  Bulletin  808,  "Hozv  to  Select  Foods.'* 

MEASUREMENTS 

All  measurements  are  level.  To  measure  a  teaspoonful  of  material 
fill  the  spoon  and  level  it  with  the  edge  of  a  knife.  To  measure  3^  tea- 
spoonful,  cut  lengthwise  of  the  material  in  the  spoon. 

4  saltspoonfuls^i  teaspoonful  (t)    2  pints=i  quart  (qt.) 

3  teaspoonfuls=i   tablespoonful        4  quarts=i  gallon   (gal.) 
(T).  28.35  grams=i   ounce   (oz.) 

16  tablespoonfuls=i    cupful    (c)       16  ounces=i  pound  (lb.) 
.2  cupfuls=i    pint    (pt.) 

x^PPROXIMATK    MEASUKICMENTS 

2  c.  granulated  sugar=i   lb.  2  c.  hominy  grits=i  lb. 

2  2/3  powdered  sugar^i  lb.  2  c.  rice=^i  lb. 

2  2/3  c.  brown  sugar=^i  lb.  4  c.  soft  bread  crumbs=7  oz, 

4  c.  sifted  flour=i  lb.  4  c.  walnr.t  meats=i  lb. 
4  c.  rye  flour=  i  lb.  4  c.  pecan  meats^i  lb. 
4/4  c.  rye  meal=i  lb.  8  to  12  eggs=i  lb. 

3/4  c.  yellow  cornmeal=i   lb.  2  c.  solidly  packed  butter=i  lb. 

4  c.  Southern  cornmeal=i  lb.  2  c.  solidly  packed  lard=i  lb. 

5  c.  rolled  oats=i  lb.  2  c.  eoHdly  packed  meat^i  lb. 
2y2  c.  pearl  barley  =1  lb.  i/4  c.  corn  syrup=i  lb. 

Oven  Tests 

Use  heavy  white  paper  about  the  weight  of  letter  paper.  The  white 
cards  used  in  filing  cabinets  may  be  purchased  by  the  hundred  and  each 
'.card  cut  into  several  pieces.  Old,  light  weight  visiting  cards  may  be 
^utilized.  Or,  i  t.  flour  may  be  spread  thinly  in  a  pan  and  used  for  test- 
ing. While  these  tests  are  important  for  a  beginner,  one  should  soon 
become  accustomed  to  the  hand  test,  which  will  vary  greatly  with  the 
individual.  Put  a  piece  of  paper  on  the  grate  in  the  center  of  the  oven ; 
when  it  becomes  a  golden  brown  vvithin  a  certain  time  the  oven  is  the 
.right  temperature. 

Allow  2  min.  for  browning  the  paper  for  the  temperature  to  be 
right  for  starting  popovers  and  puff  paste. 

Allow  3  min.  for  biscuits,  muffins,  and  small  or  layer  butter  cakes. 

Allow  4  min.  for  starting  loaf  butter  cakes. 


WAR-TIME    COOKERY  9 

Allow  5  min.  for  starting  bread,  and  for  small  or  layer  spoi-)  e  cakes 
and  meringue  for  pies. 

Allow  6  min.  for  loaf  sponge  cake. 

When  the  paper  browns  in  3  min.  the  oven  is  hot.  When  it  browns 
in  5  min.  the  oven  is  moderate. 


SAUCES 

White 

Sauce 

Ingredients 

Butter 

Flour 

Salt 

Pepper 

Milk 

No.  I                No.  II 
Thin              Medium 
IT.                    2  T. 
IT.                    2  T. 
Vzt.                        At. 
spk.                    spk. 
1  c.                     1  c. 

Other  Sauces 

No.  Ill 
Thick 

3  T. 

3  T. 

A  t- 

spk. 
1  c. 

No.  IV 
VeryThick 
4  T. 
4  T. 

At. 

spk. 
1  c. 

Butter  Substitute  . 

Flour 

Salt 

Pepper 

Drawn  Butt 

'/2    c. 

.....     %  c. 

....    X  t. 
%  t. 

er      F 

or  Bee 
2  T. 

2  T. 

A  t. 
iVt. 

3  T. 

ts         Brown 

X  c. 
K  c. 
? 
? 

I'A  c. 
brown 

Tomato 
3  T. 
3  T. 
1  t. 

A  t. 
1  pt. 

Cb.eese 
lA  T. 
lA  T. 

A  t. 
iV  t. 

Sugar 

Mustard 

....  1  pt. 

A  t. 

Boiling  Water 

Vinegar 

Stock 

U  c. 

H  c. 

Milk 

1  c. 

Stewed  Tomatoes 

Grated  Cheese     _. 

A  c. 

Method  I.  Melt  butter  and  when  it  bubbles  and  is  frothy,  add  the 
flour  mixed  with  the  dry  seasonings  and  cook  for  an  instant  until  smooth 
and  well  blended,  stirring  all  the  time.  Then  add  the  milk,  one-third  at 
a  time,  and  stir  after  each  addition  until  the  sauce  has  thickened ;  when 
the  boiling  point  is  reached  remove  from  the  fire  and  serve.  This  is  the 
quickest  method  of  cooking  the  starch  in  the  flour,  due  to  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  fat.  and  there  is  less  liability  of  the  butter  separating  from 
the  mixture  when  the  sauce  is  cooked  in  this  manner.  If  the  butter  is 
very  salt,  scant  this  seasoning.  Wlien  sauce  is  made  in  this  manner 
one  must  use  as  much  fat  as  flour.  This  is  more  expensive  than  Meth- 
od II. 

Method  II.  Mix  the  flour  and  seasoning  with  a  little  of  the  cold 
milk  making  a  smooth  paste  v/hich  will  pour.  Heat  the  remainder  of 
the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  adding  any  amount  of  butter  desired.  When 
milk  is  hot,  slowly  pour  the  paste  into  it,  stirring  constantly,  and  con- 
tinue to  stir  until  sauce  thickens.  Cook  20  min.  in  order  to  cook  the 


10  war-time;  cookery 

starch.  This  may  be  made  not  so  expensive  as  the  other  sauce,  as  it  is 
possible  to  use  much  less  butter. 

Prepare  all  the  other  sauces  in  table  in  same  manner,  substituting 
the  various  liquids  called  for  instead  of  the  milk  and  adding  the  special 
ingredients  as  cheese,  etc.,  at  the  last. 

The  butter  may  be  browned  first,  if  desired,  in  the  Brown  and 
Tomato  sauces.  Also,  for  variety,  cook  2  T.  chopped  onion,  2  cloves,  a 
sprig  of  parsley  and  a  tiny  bit  of  bay  leaf  with  the  tomato  before  strain- 
ing. 

When  the  stock  used  in  the  sauces  has  been  well  seasoned  no  more 
salt  and  pepper  will  be  required;  the  seasoning  always  depends  upon.- 
amount  used  in  stock. 

SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEATS 

A  cream  soup  means  one  which  has  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.. 

A  puree  is  twice  as  thick. 

These  soups  are  a  combination  of  a  thin  white  sauce  or  other 
thickened  liquid  and  vegetable  or  fish  pulp. 

All  such  soups  must  be  thickened  somewhat  to  prevent  a  separa- 
tion of  the  pulp  and  liquid. 

The  liquid  may  be  all  water,  all  milk  or  part  cream,  or  v.ater  in 
which  the  vegetables  were  cooked.  The  thickening  may  be  cornstarch,, 
flour,  arrowroot,  cracker  or  bread  crumbs.  The  fat  may  be  cream,, 
butter,  butter  substitute,  drippings,  or  oil. 

The  general  proportions  for  cream  soups  are  from  i  to  2  c.  vege- 
table pulp  to  I  qt.  of  white  sauce,  No.  i.  The  amount  of  pulp  would 
depend  upon  whether  it  is  thick  like  potato,  or  thin  like  celery. 

General  Rules 

Cook  the  vegetable  or  fish  and  press  through  a  sieve ;  make  a  white 
sauce  of  fat.  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  milk,  and  add  the  thinner  liquid 
very  gradually  to  the  thicker.  Serve  hot  and  at  once,  for  if  kept  hot 
the  vegetable  pulp  will  cause  tb.e  milk  to  curdle.  In  substituting  corn- 
starch  for  flour,  use  only  half  as  much. 

Tomato  Soup 

I  qt.  tomatoes.  ^  t.  soda. 

I  pt.  water.  i  to  3  T.  butter  or  other  fat. 

Bit  of  bay  leaf.  3  T.  flour. 

4  cloves.  2  t.  salt. 

I  T.  onion.  14  t.  pepper  or  more. 

I  T.  sugar 

Simmer  the  first  six  ingredients  in  an  uncovered  saucepan.  At  the 
end  of  20  min.  strain  and  add  soda.  There  should  be  i  qt.  of  liquid. 
Combine  the  last  four  ingredients  as  in  making  white  sauce.  Add  liquid 
and  let  it  thicken.    When  mixture  reaches  boiling  point  serve. 


war-time  cookery  1  1 

Tomato  Bisque 

I  pt.  of  stewed  and  strained  4  T.  flour. 

tomatoes.  2  t.  salt. 

Ys  t.  soda.  1/3  t.  pepper. 

I  to  4  T.  butter  or  other  fat.  i  qt.  milk. 

Prepare  according  to  rule,  adding  soda  to  strained  tomato  while 
hot,  because  it  will  neutralize  the  acid  quickly.  Slowly  add  hot  toma- 
toes to  white  sauce  and  serve  immediately. 

Corn  Soup 

I  can  corn  or  i  T.  chopped  onion. 

I  pt.  chopped  corn  or  4  T.  flour. 

y2  c.  dried  corn.  2  t.  salt. 

I  pt.  water.  %  t.  pepper. 

I  to  4  T.  butter.  i  qt.  milk. 

Cook  corn  and  water  15  min.  and  press  through  a  sieve.  There 
should  be  i  pt.  Cook  the  onion  in  the  melted  butter  until  light  brown, 
remove  and  proceed  according  to  general  rule.  If  the  corn  is  large  or 
tough  it  may  be  put  through  the  food  chopper  before  cooking.  Soak 
dried  corn  over  night.    Cook  until  tender  and  proceed  according  to  rule. 

Asparagus  Soup 

Remove  the  tips  from  freshly  cooked  or  canned  asparagus.  Press 
the  remainder  through  a  sieve  until  there  is  i  c.  pulp  and  liquid.  Make 
I  qt.  of  No.  1^/2  White  Sauce,  add  the  hot  asparagus  and  place  a  few  of 
the  tips  in  each  plate. 

Spinach,  Cauliflower,  Carrot,  Onion  Soups,  Etc. 

1  c.  vegetable  pulp  i  qt.  No.  White  Sauce. 

Combine  according  to  rule. 

Potato  Soup 

i3/4  c.  mashed  potatoes.  %  t.  celery  salt. 

2  T.  butter  or  substitute.  i  T.  chopped  onion. 
2  T.  flour.  I  qt.  milk. 

2  t.  salt.  2  t.  chopped  parsley. 

j4  t.  pepper. 

Scald  the  onion  with  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  for  10  min.,  then 
remove.  Proceed  according  to  rule.  Add  sauce  very  slowly  to  the 
potato,  stirring  constantly,  and  add  parsley  just  before  serving. 

Dried  Pea  or  Bean  Soup 

1  c.  peas  or  beans.  3  T.  flour. 

2  qts.  cold  water.  i^  t.  salt 

2  T.  chopped  onion.  ^  t.  pepper. 

%  lb.  fat  pork  or  ham  bone.  i  pt.  milk.  - 

3  T.  butter  substitute. 


12  wAR-TiMi;  cooke;ry 

Look  over  peas,  wash  them  and  soak  over  night  in  cold  water. 
Drain,  rinse  well,  add  the  2  qts.  of  cold  water,  onion,  pork  or  ham  bone. 
Cook  several  hours,  or  until  soft;  then  rub  through  a  sieve,  (there 
should  be  i  qt.).  Make  a  white  sauce  of  last  five  ingredients  and  com- 
bine. Other  fats  may  replace  pork  or  it  may  be  omitted  and  more  sea- 
soning used. 

Black  Bean  Soup 


I  c.  dried  black  beans. 

}i  t.  celery  salt. 

1  qt.  cold  water. 

2  T.  chopped  onion. 

3  T.  butter  substitute. 

Ys  t.  pepper. 

ys  t.  mustard. 

2  hard  cooked  eggs. 

3  T.  flour. 

I  lemon. 

2  t.  salt, 

Prepare  beans  and  cook  with  water  and  onion  as  in  above  recipe, 
adding  more  water  as  it  boils  away  so  there  will  be  13^2  qts.  after  strain- 
ing. 

Cook  butter,  flour,  salt,  celery  salt,  pepper,  and  mustard  as  for 
white  sauce,  add  hot  liquid,  and  when  it  boils  serve. 

Chop  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  pass  the  yolks  through  a  sieve  and  slice 
the  lemon  thin,  removing  the  seeds.  Put  a  little  of  the  egg  and  a  slice 
of  lemon  in  each  plate.    Eggs  may  be  omitted. 

Baked  Bean  Soup 

I  pt.  bean  pulp.  2  T.  butter  substitute. 

1  pt.  water,  milk  or  2  T.  flour. 

tomato  juice.  Seasoning  if  required. 

If  the  pulp  is  very  thick  and  dry  use  less  of  it  and  more  liquid.  Thin 
the  pulp  with  liquid  and  with  this  pulp  make  a  sauce  with  the  other 
materials.    Seasoning  depends  upon  the  amount  used  in  the  beans. 

Potato  Chowder 

2  T.  flour.  ji  c.  minced  onion. 
2  T.  bacon  or  other  fat.                      2  c.  water. 

2  t.  or  more,  salt.  i  pt.  potato  cubes. 

Pepper  i  qt.  milk 

Wash,  peel,  and  cut  potatoes  into  half  inch  cubes. 

Put  potatoes,  onion,  seasoning,  and  water  into  sauce  pan  and  sim- 
mer 20  min.,  or  until  vegetables  are  tender.  Heat  the  fat,  add  flour, 
cook  for  an  instant  and  add  hot  milk  one-third  at  a  time.  Stir  constant- 
ly so  the  mixture  will  be  smooth,  and  when  it  reaches  boiling  point 
serve.  Add  more  seasoning  if  necessary.  Chopped  parsley  sprinkled 
over  the  top  of  the  chowder  makes  a  pleasing  variation. 


war-time  cookery  13 

Corn  Chowder 

Same  ingredients  as  for  potato  chowder  adding  i  can  or  i  pt.  corn 
at  the  end.    The  potatoes  may  be  decreased  one  half. 

Fish  Chowder 

Same  ingredients  as  for  potato  chowder  using  only  i  pt.  potato. 
Skin,  bone,  and  cut  one  pound  of  fish  into  2-inch  pieces  and  cook  in  the 
water  with  the  potatoes. 

In  all  these  chowder  recipes  the  onion  may  be  browned  in  the  fat 
first  if  this  flavor  is  desired. 

Salt  Codfish  may  be  used  by  first  soaking  in  cold  water  to  freshen. 

Vegetable  Soup 

1/3  c.  each  of  diced  carrots.  4  T.  butter  substitute  or 

turnips,  celery,  onion.  savory  drippings, 

i/^  c.  potato  cubes.  Salt,  pepper  and  parsley  if  desired. 

1  qt.  water. 

Wash,  scrape  carrot  and  celery,  peel  turnip,  onion  and  potatoes. 
Cut  into  cubes  and  measure.  Mix  vegetables  (except  potatoes)  and 
cook  in  part  of  the  fat  until  slightly  browned.  Stir  them  constantly. 
Add  water,  and  let  soup  simmer  until  vegetables  are  partially  cooked, 
then  add  potatoes.  When  tender  add  rest  of  fat  and  parsley  and  season 
mixture  well. 

Meat  and  Vegetable  Soup 

i^  lbs.  beef  shoulder  or  other  2c.  carrots. 

meat.  J/2  c.  barley. 

2  c.  tomatoes.  1^/2  T.  salt. 

3  qts.  water.  y2  t  or  more  pepper. 
I  stalk  or  small  bunch  celery.  i  c.  flour. 

J4  to  ^  c.  minced  onion. 

Soak  the  barley  for  several  hours  in  just  enough  water  to  soften. 
Put  the  meat  through  the  grinder  using  the  coarsest  knife,  add  toma- 
toes, water,  barley  and  onion.  When  meat  is  partially  cooked  add  all 
other  ingredients  except  flour.  The  carrots  and  celery  may  be  cut  in 
uniform  pieces  or  put  through  the  grinder.  The  latter  takes  much  less 
time  but  does  not  look  quite  so  attractive.  When  the  soup  has  cooked 
long  enough  thicken  with  flour  which  has  been  mixed  with  sufficient 
cold  water  to  make  a  smooth  liquid  thin  enough  to  pour.  This  makes 
a  thick  soup  and  a  very  palatable,  attractive  dish. 

Dried  celery  leaves  or  celery  salt  may  be  used  for  seasoning  if  fresh 
material  is  not  at  hand.    This  will  serve  sixteen. 


14  WAR-TIME   COOKERY 

USES  FOR  BREAD 

All  bread  should  be  utilized.  The  large  pieces  may  be  used  for 
toast,  cheese  dishes,  croutons,  soup  sticks,  meat  loaves,  bread  cases,  etc. 
The  white  crumbs  may  be  kept  especially  for  omelet,  and  for  thickening 
pies,  white  puddings,  cheese  dishes  and  croquettes.  Stale  bread  of  all 
kinds,  crusts,  baking  powder  biscuits,  muffins,  fried  cakes,  etc.,  can  be 
broken  into  pieces,  dried,  run  through  the  meat  grinder  or  crushed  fine 
with  the  rolling  pin,  and  used  in  griddle  cakes,  muffins,  yeast  bread, 
steamed  spice  puddings,  and  scalloped  dishes.  Use  unsweetened  stale, 
but  not  dried  crumbs  for  scalloped  meat  dishes,  for  stuffing  fowls  and 
rolled  steak. 

Crumbs  containing  fat  will  not  keep  so  well  as  those  without.  All 
crumbs  should  be  kept  in  jar  or  crock  with  a  piece  of  muslin  tied  over 
the  top  to  prevent  entrance  of  dust.  If  covered  tight  the  bread  will 
soon  become  rancid. 

Stale  Crumbs 

Prepare  from  stale  but  undried  bread  by  grating  or  rubbing  two 
pieces  together. 

Dried  Crumbs 

Prepare  by  drying  and  grinding  or  crushing  with  a  rolling  pin.  Sift 
crumbs.  Use  the  finer  ones  for  croquettes  and  thickening.  Reserve 
the  coarse  ones  for  other  purposes.  The  coarse  crumbs  may  be  re- 
ground  if  desired. 

Buttered  Crumbs  . 

Use  stale  bread.  Remove  crusts,  as  these  are  already  browned 
and  would  produce  an  unevenly  colored  surface. 

Use  I  T.  butter,  butter  substitute,  drippings  or  oil  for  each  cupful 
of  crumbs  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  fat  in  shallow  pan, 
add  crumbs  all  at  once,  and  toss  lightly  until  evenly  coated.  Do  not 
press  the  crumbs,  as  this  makes  them  heavy.  The  crumbs  are  browned 
when  the  dish  is  placed  in  the  oven  to  cook  or  re-heat. 
Croutons  and  Soup  Sticks 

Cut  stale  bread  into  cubes  or  strips  and  brown  in  oven  or  in  contact 
with  flame. 

Milk  Toast 

Prepare  eight  slices  of  toast  and  2  c.  of  white  sauce  No.  I.  Place 
a  layer  of  toast  in  the  dish  and  over  it  pour  part  of  the  sauce.  Re-heat. 
If  a  soft  toast  is  desired  dip  the  bread  into  hot  water  before  using  the 
sauce. 

Variations.  Use  1^/2  c.  white  sauce  and  ^  c.  strained  tomato 
pulp  to  which  has  been  added  a  pinch  of  soda. 

To  the  white  sauce  add  >4  c.  grated  cheese,  or  3  hard  cooked  eggs 
cut  into  pieces. 


WAR-TIME    COOKERY  i  5 

.  Egg  Toast 

I  egg.  I  c.  milk. 

14  t.  salt.  8  small  slices  bread. 

Beat  eggs  until  yolks  and  whites  are  well  mixed,  but  not  foamy, 
add  salt  and  milk.  Dip  bread  into  the  mixture  and  let  it  stand  until 
thoroughly  saturated  but  not  soft  enough  to  break.  Drain  well.  Place 
slices  in  a  thoroughly  greased  broiler  and  broil  over  the  coals  or  under 
the  gas  flame.  Serve  hot  with  butter,  or  sugar  and  cinnamon,  or  syrup, 
or  a  sauce.  The  bread  may  be  sauted  in  fat  in  a  frying  pan  but  it  is  not 
so  wholesome,  as  the  fat  is  heated  to  a  very  high  temperature  and  much 
of  it  is  absorbed. 

Steamed  Bread 

Stale  bread  may  be  steamed  over  water  and  served  as  soon  as  moist 
and  puffed.  Slices  may  be  placed  in  a  shallow  pan  over  BOILING 
water  and  sufficient  salted  milk  added  to  come  halfway  up  the  bread. 
Cover  and  steam  until  the  bread  is  light  and  puffy  but  do  not  let  it  re- 
main until  it  breaks  and  is  soggy.  Grated  cheese  may  be  added  to  either 
of  these  dishes. 

SCALLOPED  DISHES 

The  term  "scalloped  dish"  is  supposed  to  have  come  from  cooking 
a  certain  type  of  mixture  in  scallop  shells. 

A  scalloped  dish  is  the  combination  of  buttered  crumbs  and  season- 
ing with  uncooked  or  cooked  material,  to  which  may  be  added  a  sauce, 
milk,  water  or  other  liquid.  These  ingredients,  arranged  according  to 
methods  given  below,  are  put  into  a  baking  dish  and  placed  in  the  oven 
to  brown  the  top  layer  of  crumbs  and  either  to  cook  or  re-heat  accord- 
ing to  wether  main  ingredient  be  uncooked  or  cooked  material. 

If  main  ingredient  be  cooked,  use  3  min.  test  or  a  hot  oven.  If 
main  ingredient  be  uncooked,  use  4  min.  test  or  a  less  hot  oven,  and 
cover  during  first  half  of  baking  time  to  prevent  too  rapid  browning  of 
crumbs. 

Always  butter  the  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  with  a  few  of  the  but- 
tered crumbs  to  prevent  the  materials  from  sticking.  Individual  dishes 
will  require  more  crumbs  on  account  of  the  greater  surface. 

Method  I.  Where  the  material  is  dry,  such  as  meat,  fish,  vege- 
tables, etc..  it  is  mixed  with  a  sauce  and  seasoning,  a  few  crumbs  are 
placed  on  bottom  of  dish,  the  mixture  is  poured  in,  covered  with  the 
remainder  of  the  crumbs,  and  baked. 

Method  II.  When  the  material  will  furnish  its  own  moisture,  as 
oysters,  apples,  rhubarb,  etc.,  the  ingredients  are  placed  in  the  dish  in 
two  layers.  Sprinkle  the  dish  with  crumbs,  put  in  one  layer  of  main 
ingredient,  then  part  of  dry  seasonings,  then  one-half  the  remaining 


16  WAR-TIME    COOKERY 

crumbs,  and  add  the  rest  of  materials  in  same  order.  If  lemon  juice  is- 
used  or  a  little  liquid  to  start  the  cooking  process,  add  before  putting  on 
the  top  layer  of  crumbs.     Water  soaked  crumbs  do  not  brown  readily. 

Creamed  Meat,  Fish,  Vegetables 

Cut  cooked  meat  and  vegetables  into  cubes,  separate  fish  into  large 
flakes.  To  each  quart  of  well-seasoned  material  allow  i  pint  of  White 
Sauce,  No.  2  and  3  c.  buttered  crumbs.  Prepare  according  to  Method  I 
and  bake  about  20  minutes.  This  amount  of  sauce  is  just  enough  to  hold 
the  mixture  together;  another  cupful  may  be  used  if  desired. 

Tomatoes 

1  qt.  tomatoes.  2  T.  sugar. 

2  T.  finely  chopped  onion.  2  T.  butter. 

2  t.  salt.  3  c.  buttered  crumbs. 

}i  t.  pepper. 

Cook  the  tomatoes  and  onions  slowly  in  an  uncovered  saucepan  for 
20  min.,  when  there  should  be  one  pint  of  the  mixture.  Add  the  season- 
ing and  prepare  according  to  Method  I,  and  bake  about  20  min. 

Corn 

I  pt.  or  I  can  corn  or  %  t.  pepper. 

2/3  c.  dried  corn.  2  T.  butter. 

1/3  c.  water.  1/3  c.  milk. 

I  t.  salt.  2  c.  buttered  crumbs. 

Cook  first  five  ingredients  about  15  min.  or  until  thick  and  the 
steam  bubbles  pufif  up  through,  stir  frequently  to  prevent  burning.  Add 
milk,  prepare  according  to  Method  I,  and  bake  about  20  min.  The  evap- 
oration of  moisture  and  thickening  of  corn  readily  forms  a  sauce.  Soak 
dried  corn  over  night  and  cook  in  the  same  water  until  tender. 

Oysters 

I  solid  pt.  oysters.  -34  t.  salt. 

1/16  t.  cayenne.  3  c.  buttered  crumbs. 

Slip  the  oysters  through  the  fingers  to  remove  any  bits  of  shell. 
Prepare  according  to  Method  II  and  bake  uncovered  about  20  min.  or 
until  the  oysters  turn  white,  and  the  gills  curl  and  the  crumbs  are  brown. 
Oysters  cook  so  quickly  that  they  come  under  the  fat  or  oven  tests  for 
cooked  material. 

Apples 

I  qt.  chopped  tart  apples.  yg  t.  salt. 

I  c.  brown  sugar.  jA  grated  lemon  rind. 

y2  t.  cinnamon.  2  T.  lemon  juice. 

%  t.  cloves.  1/3  c.  water. 

34  t.  nutmeg.  [  qt.  buttered  crumbs. 


WAR-TIME    COOKERY  17 

Rhubarb 

I  lb.  or  I  solid  qt.  peeled,  1/3  c.  stoned  raisins, 

sliced  rhubarb.  3  c.  buttered  crumbs. 

I  c.  brown  sugar. 

Bananas 

8  bananas,  scraped  and  sliced.  %  c.  lemon  juice. 

^  c.  sugar.  Ya,  c.  water. 

y^  t.  salt.  3  c.  buttered  crumbs. 

Prepare  the  last  three  recipes  according  to  Method  II  and  general 
rules  for  uncooked  mixtures,  baking  from  Yx  to  i  hr.  All  three  make  a 
good  accompaniment  to  roast  meats,  the  banana  being  especially  good 
with  lamb  or  mutton.  These  last  three  scalloped  dishes  may  be  made 
a  little  sweeter  and  served  with  a  sauce  for  a  desert. 

MEAT  COOKERY 

General  Rules 

In  cooking  meat  one  of  three  results  must  always  be  in  mind ;  to 
extract  the  juice,  to  retain  the  juice,  or  combine  these  two  results. 

To  retain  the  juice  the  meat  is  first  seared  by  direct  contact  with 
the  fire,  or  by  placing  it  in  a  hot  oven,  hot  pan  or  boiling  water ;  then 
the  temperature  is  lowered.  Searing  coagulates  the  albumin  on  the  out- 
side of  the  meat,  and  the  latter  is  cooked  in  its  own  juice. 

To  extract  the  juice,  as  in  making  soup,  cut  or  chop  the  meat  fine, 
exposing  as  large  a  surface  as  possible,  and  soak  in  cold  water  one  hour 
or  longer. 

To  extract  some  of  the  juice  in  the  broth  and  retain  the  rest  in  the 
meat  as  in  making  a  stew,  the  pieces  are  not  as  small  as  for  soup.  They 
are  allowed  to  remain  in  cold  water  only  a  few  minutes  and  then  heated 
slowly.  While  the  meat  is  standing  and  heating  the  juice  is  drawn  out; 
but  when  the  water  simmers  the  surface  hardens  and  the  remainder  of 
the  juice  is  retained. 

Stews 

Stewing  is  one  of  the  best  methods  for  cooking  the  toughter  cuts 
of  meat,  such  as  the  neck,  shoulder,  and  lower  part  of  the  leg.  If  the 
flavor  of  browned  meat  is  desired  brown  part  of  the  material  quickly, 
add  to  the  remainder  and  cook  according  to  directions  for  beef  stew. 
In  all  cases  keep  the  fire  low,  so  that  the  stew  will  simmer  and  not  boil, 
as  high  degree  of  heat  will  toughten  the  fibre.  Stews  may  be  flavored 
with  all  kinds  of  highly  flavored  vegetables,  which  should  be  added  just 
in  time  to  become  tender.  If  the  stew  is  to  be  the  main  part  of  the  meal, 
greater  food  value  may  be  obtained  by  adding  potatoes,  rice,  barley, 


18 


WAR-TIME    COOKERY 


macaroni,  or  other  grain  preparations.     Dumplings  of  various  types  or 
baking  powder  biscuit  may  be  served. 

Remade  Dishes 

Meats  which  have  been  cooked  need  only  to  be  well  heated  through, 
prolonged  cooking  hardens  them.  All  gristle  and  superflous  fat  must 
be  removed,  and  the  meat  may  be  cut  into  small  pieces  or  chopped  fine. 
Great  pains  should  be  taken  to  have  made  over  dishes  attractive  in  ap- 
pearance and  properly  seasoned. 

MEAT  EXTENDERS 


Meat  and  Vegetable  Soup — (see  soups) 
Bee?  and  Mutton  Stew 


1  to  2  lb.  beef. 

2  T.  finely  chopped  onion. 
Yz  c.  diced  turnips. 

y^  c.  diced  carrots. 
2  c.  potatoes  cut  in  ^  in. 
Slices  or  cubes. 


2  t.  salt. 

^4  t.  pepper. 

Yy  c.  flour  mixed  with 

Yi  c.  cold  water. 

I  qt.  water  or  3  c.  water  and 

I  c.  tomatoes. 


Wipe  the  meat,  remove  fat,  cut  into  i  in.  pices,  put  aside  about 
one-fourth  of  the  best  pieces  and  put  the  remainder  of  the  meat  into 
the  quart  of  liquid.  Alelt  the  fat  in  a  frying  pan,  remove  the  scraps, 
then  brown  the  onion  and  remove,  adding  latter  to  the  stew  or  discard- 
ing, according  to  taste.  Take  the  meat  put  aside,  roll  it  in  flour  and 
brown  quickly  in  the  hot  fat :  add  this  to  stew,  heat  until  it  bubbles  and 
simmer  2-3  hrs.,  or  until  the  meat  is  nearly  tender;  then  add  the  vege- 
tables and  seasonings.  Mix  the  flour  with  the  Yz  c.  cold  water,  and  10 
min.  before  serving  add  slowly  to  the  stew,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it 
thickens.  Watch  carefully  that  it  does  not  scorch.  Browning  part 
of  the  meat  is  purely  for  flavor  and  color.    This  may  be  omitted. 


Chicken  Stew 


5  lb.  dressed  fowl. 

Water. 

2  c.  or  I  pt.  small  onions. 

I  pt.  can  peas. 


Y2  c.  flour. 

Vy_   c.  chicken  fat  and  drippings. 
Salt  and  peper  to  taste. 


Cook  fowl  until  tender,  adding  onions  and  carrots  the  last  hour. 
Remove  chicken  from  bones,  keeping  the  meat  in  as  large  pieces  as  pos- 
sible. Melt  fat  if  hard  or  heat  liquid  fat  until  practically  free  from 
water.  Stir  in  the  flour,  cook  for  an  instant  and  add  i  qt.  broth,  stirring 
constantly  as  it  thickens.  Let  the  gravy  boil  for  an  instant,  add  other 
material,  re-heat  and  serve. 


war-time  cookery  19 

Rolled  Steak 

I  lb.  top  round  ^  in.  thick.  i  t.  minced  parsley,  if  convenient. 

I  c.  soft  stale  crumbs.  Salt  and  pepper. 

I  t.  minced  onion.  ^  c.  water  or  milk 

I   T.  drippings   (melted).  or  enough   to   moisten. 

Mix  the  dressing  and  spread  on  the  steak,  keeping  the  mixture  one 
inch  from  the  edge  to  prevent  squeezing  out.  Roll  up  the  steak,  tie 
securely,  brown  on  all  sides,  put  into  kettle  and  surround  with  the  fol- 
lowing vegetables 

^  c.  each  carrots,  turnips,  celery,  and  2  T.  chopped  onion.  Pour 
in  hot  vv-ater  to  come  halfway  up  the  steak,  add  salt  and  pepper,  cover 
kettle  tight,  and  simmer  2  to  3  hours  or  until  tender.  The  vegetables 
may  be  left  whole  or  pressed  through  a  sieve  to  thicken  the  gravy.  This 
will  make  six  medium  sized  portions. 

Casserole  Dishes 

The  earthern  casserole  is  well  adapted  to  the  "One-piece  Dinner'' 
which  consists  of  meat,  potatoes  and  vegetables  cooked  together  in  a 
liquid  which  is  thickened  and  forms  the  gravy  at  the  time  of  serving. 
This  type  of  dish  saves  much  dish  washing,  as  the  meal  is  cooked  and 
served  in  the  casserole.  Any  fireproof  covered  earthern  dish,  crock,  or 
bean  pot,  will  answer  the  purpose  but  attractive  casseroles  of  all  sizes 
and  descriptions  may  be  purchased  for  a  comparatively  moderate  sum. 

The  cooking  may  be  done  in  the  fireless  cooker  or  a  moderate  oven. 
When  planning  to  use  the  oven  for  a  length  of  time  it  is  well  to  utilize 
the  same  heat  for  other  dishes  to  be  served  at  the  same  meal  or  some 
future  time.  Careful  planning  along  this  line  saves  much  fuel  and 
heat,  as  well  as  time  and  energy. 

General  Directions 

Fowl,  patridges,  pigeons,  small  birds,  beef,  veal,  rabbits,  mutton 
chops,  etc.,  may  be  cooked  in  a  similar  manner.  Fowls,  pigeons,  rab- 
bits should  be  disjointed,  steaks  may  be  left  whole  or  cut  into  round, 
oval  or  oblong  strips.  Any  kind  of  fat  may  be  used  in  the  preliminary 
browning,  and  any  vegetable  combination  made  that  seems  desirable. 

Prepare  meat,  dip  in  flour  or  meal,  and  brown  in  a  frying  pan,  if 
this  flavor  is  liked,  (the  browning  may  be  omitted).  Put  meat  and 
vegetables  into  the  dish  in  layers,  or  place  the  meat  in  the  center  with 
vegetables  around.  Cover  the  matrial  with  water,  or  the  liquid  used  in 
cooking  meat  or  vegetables.  Use  onion,  bay  leaf,  parsley  or  any  season- 
ing that  blends  with  the  ingredients  and  appeals  to  the  family  taste. 
Cover  the  casserole  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  from  i^  to  3  hrs., 
according  to  toughness  of  meat.  Dumplings  may  be  cooked  on  top  of 
the  casserole  dish  the  last  15  min.  before  serving. 


20  war-time  cookery 

Meat  Pies 

These  may  consist  of  various  combinations  of  meats  and  vege- 
tables, with  seasoning,  heated  in  a  gravy  or  thickened  liquid,  and  cov- 
ered with  a  biscuit  crust.  Put  cooked  meat  and  vegetables  in  layers  in 
a  baking  dish  or  mix  all  materials  together.  Cover  with  a  thick  hot 
gravy  and  put  on  the  crust.  If  latter  is  in  one  piece,  perforate  the  cen- 
ter. If  the  pie  is  large  an  inverted  cup  is  sometimes  placed  in  the  center 
of  the  dish.  The  gravy  will  collect  under  this  and  prevent  the  liquid 
from  forcing  its  way  through  the  crust.  Drop  biscuit  or  those  which 
have  been  patted  and  cut  out  may  be  used  for  the  top  of  the  pie.  This 
is  a  convenience  in  serving  and  also  allows  plenty  of  space  for  the  steam 
to  escape  during  the  cooking. 

MEAT  AND  POTATO  MIXTURES 

General  Proportions 

1  to  2  c.  meat.  i  T.  minced  onion  or  parsley 

2  c.  mashed  potato.  or  both,  if  desired. 

3  T.  drippings  or  butter  substitute.  Stock,  water,  or  the  water  in 
Salt  and  pepper.  which  vegetables  were  cooked. 

Browned  Hash 

Use  I  T.  fat  for  greasing  the  pan  or  baking  dish.  Mix  the  ingred- 
ients, using  just  enough  hot  liquid  to  make  the  mixture  hold  together. 
Spread  in  a  frying  pan  and  cook  over  a  moderate  heat,  so  that  the  hash 
will  brown  and  form  a  thick  crust  and  yet  not  burn  (it  will  take  about 
20  min.).  Fold  like  an  omelet  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter.  The  same 
mixture  may  be  made  into  small  cakes  and  browned  in  the  pan  or  put 
into  a  dish  and  re-heated  and  browned  in  the  oven. 

Shepherds'  Pie 

Mix  everything  except  potato,  and  use  only  enough  liquid  to  moist- 
en well.  Put  into  a  greased  baking  dish  spread  with  potato,  dot  with 
fat,  and  re-heat  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  The  potato  must  be  light 
and  creamy  but  not  very  soft,  else  the  juice  from  the  meat  will  bubble 
up  through. 

SuPRisE  Potato  Balls 

Use  I  qt.  of  seasoned  potato  to  which  has  been  added  one  beaten 
egg;  be  careful  not  to  get  the  mixture  too  soft.  Dampen  the  palm  of 
the  hand  and  flatten  out  some  of  the  potato,  making  a  large  circle  with 
a  depression  in  the  center.  Put  a  little  of  the  meat  in  the  depression 
and,  bring  the  edges  of  the  potato  together,  making  a  ball  with  the  meat 
inside.  Brush  heavily  with  drippings  or  other  fat,  roll  in  fine  dried 
crumbs  and  re-heat  and  brown  in  hot  oven.  These  balls  may  be  covered 
with  egg  and  crumbs  and  cooked  in  deep  fat.     Makes  ten  balls. 


war-time  cookery  21 

Other  Varations 

Use  the  potato  and  egg  mixture,  form  into  balls,  make  a  depression 
in  the  center,  re-heat  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven  and  fill  with  creamed 
meat,  fish,  eggs,  or  vegetables.  The  potato  might  form  a  border  around 
a  platter  or  be  put  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube  with  the  creamed 
material  in  the  center. 

Into  a  baking  dish  or  casserole  put  alternate  layers  of  chopped  or 
ground  meat  and  chopped  or  mashed  potato.  Pour  tomato  sauce  or 
gravy  over  each  layer  of  meat.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  re-heat 
and  brown. 

Cooked  macaroni,  spaghetti,  rice,  hominy  grits,  cream  of  wheat, 
etc.,  may  be  substituted  for  potato  in  many  of  these  recipes,  and  fish 
may  be  used  for  the  meat. 

Meat  With  Macaroni  or  Spaghetti  or  Rice 

2  c.  well  seasoned  meat. 

2  c.  macaroni  or  i  c.  rice  cooked  in  salted  water  (this  will  make 
4  c.  cooked). 

3  c.  thickened  tomatoes  (strained  or  unstrained). 

Chop  the  meat  as  fine  as  hamburg  steak,  mix  ingredients,  and 
serve  very  hot.  If  the  meat  is  uncooked  it  may  be  tossed  about  in  a  pan 
a  few  minutes  or  added  unbrowned  to  the  other  materials,  and  the  dish 
placed  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour.  There  are  countless  variations  of 
the  above  ingredients,  and  the  housekeeper  may  evolve  a  dozen  recipes 
by  adding  difi:erent  seasonings  to  the  three  materials  given. 

Suggestions 

Add  ^  c.  chopped  onion  or  2  green  peppers,  or  both. 

Add  I  T.  curry  powder  or  less. 

Add  Chili  powder  to  taste  (made  from  Chili  pepper). 

Use  savory  fat  in  making  tomato  sauce  (fat  which  has  been  tried 
out  in  a  double  boiler  and  mixed  with  thyme,  onion,  or  other  season- 
ings. ) 

Sprinkle  ^  to  i  c.  grated  cheese  on  top  of  the  dish. 

Steamed  Potato  or  Rice  and  Meat  Mold 

Use  twice  as  much  potato  or  rice  as  meat.  Brush  a  bowl  or  mold 
very  heavily  with  fat  and  line  with  potato  or  rice  pressing  it  firmly 
against  the  sides.  If  the  spoon  is  dipped  into  cold  water  before  pressing 
the  material  the  latter  is  not  so  apt  to  stick  to  spoon.  Fill  the  center 
with  well  seasoned,  slightly  moist  meat  and  cover  with  potato  or  rice. 
Cover  mold  and  steam  ^  hour  to  re-heat.  Turn  out  the  form  and  pour 
tomato  sauce  around  and  not  over  it.  The  mold  may  be  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  in  the  oven,  or  heated  in  a  kettle  of  water  directly  over  the 
flame.  In  this  case  put  a  rack  perforated  pan,  or  several  flolds  of  paper 
on  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  to  prevent  the  mold  from  bumping. 


22  war-time  cookery 

Surprise  Cabbage 

1  c.  chopped  raw  mutton  or  2  t.  salt,  >^  t.  pepper, 
other  meat.  Onion  or  herbs  if  desired. 

2  T.  fat.  I  head  of  cabbage   (large  leaves). 
1/3  c.  raw  rice. 

Separate  cabbage  leaves,  and  throw  into  boiling  water  and  cook  a 
few  minutes  until  the  leaves  have  wilted  and  will  roll  without  breaking. 
Mix  the  remaining  materials  and  allow  i  rounding  teaspoonful  for  each 
leaf.  Put  the  mixture  in  the  center  of  the  leaf,  fold  over  the  sides,  roll 
up  and  fasten  with  toothpicks.  Pack  in  dish,  cover  with  water  or  liquid 
from  vegetables,  and  bake  in  oven  or  simmer  over  the  fire  ilA  hours. 
If  spiced  meat  or  sausage  is  used  the  seasoning  may  be  omitted. 

Meat  Rolls  and  Turnovers 

Small  quantities  of  mutton,  beef,  chicken  or  ham  may  be  utilized 
for  these.  The  meat  should  be  well  seasoned  and  moist  enough  to  form 
into  rolls  about  the  size  of  the  finger,  or  oval  cakes.  Make  a  short  cake 
dough,  roll  out  thin  and  cut  into  strips,  or  circles  about  the  size  of  a 
large  saucer.  Place  the  rolls  on  the  strips  or  the  ovals  on  the  circles. 
Moisten  the  edges  of  the  dough  so  they  will  stick  together,  fold  the 
paste  over  the  meat  and  pinch.  The  meat  should  be  entirely  covered. 
Bake  20  to  30  min.  in  a  hot  oven  ,and  serve  as  soon  as  done. 

Farmers  Bulletin  391 — Economical  Use  of  Meat  in  the  Home. 

Corn-Meal  Mush  With  Meat 

I  lb.  lean  meat.  ^^  t.  sage  with  pork. 

I  c.  meal.  Water. 

I  t.  salt  or  more. 

Simmer  the  meat  until  very  tender.  Cut  fine  or  chop.  Reduce  the 
broth  to  I  qt.  or  add  water  to  make  this  amount,  see  that  it  is  very  well 
seasoned.  To  the  boiling  broth  very  slovv^ly  add  the  meal,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Cook  directly  over  the  fire  until  thick  and  the  steam  bubbles  puflf 
up  through.  Finish  in  double  boiler  or  fireless  cooker.  Add  the  meat, 
pour  into  greased  bread  tins,  and  cool.  Cut  into  slices  and  brown.  Odds 
and  ends  of  cooked  meats  may  be  combined  for  this  dish  and  the  broth 
may  be  made  from  bouillon  cubes  or  the  water  in  which  vegetables  have 
been  cooked. 

Farme7's'  Bulletin  565,  "Corn-Meal  as  a  Food  and  IVays  of  Us- 
ing it." 

MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 

Fish  Chowder — (See  Soups) 

Substitute  fish  for  meat  in  many  of  the  recipes  for  "Meat  Extend- 
ers." 


WAR-TIMC;    COOKljRY  23 

u  Salt  F'lSii  Dinner 

P'  (  Codfish,  Mackerel,  Finnan  Haddie  or  Smoked  Halibut) 

Soak  in  cold  water  to  remove  some  of  the  salt.  Place  in  cold  water, 
heat  gradually,  and  cook  below  boiling  point  until  fish  is  tender.  Place 
fish  on  a  hot  platter  and  over  it  pour  i  pt.  white  sauce.  Place  boiled 
potatoes  at  one  end  and  boiled  beets  or  carrots  at  the  other.  Season 
the  vegetables  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  or  substitute. 

Creamed  Fish 

2  c.  flaked  fish.  i  to  i^  c.  medium  white  sauce. 

Combine  materials  and  serve  with  potatoes,  rice,  on  toast,  in  bread, 
or  hominy  cases.  Two  hard-cooked  eggs  cut  in  cubes  and  chopped  pars- 
ley make  pleasing  additions.     This  serves  six. 

Codfish  Balls 

I  c.  salt  codfish.  Salt  if  needed. 

2^2  c.  potatoes.  i  T.  butter  or  substitute. 

y&  t.  pepper.  i  egg. 

If  fish  is  very  dry  and  salt,  soak  in  cold  water  for  several  hours, 
otherwise  just  wash  in  cold  water  and  separate  into  small  pieces.  Wash, 
pare  and  slice  potatoes,  and  cook  in  boiling  water,  when  they  are  nearly 
done,  add  the  fish.  When  the  potatoes  are  cooked,  drain  the  mixture 
very  thoroughly  and  shake  over  the  fire  until  dry  and  the  potatoes  look 
mealy.  Mash  v/ith  wire  potato  masher,  add  the  butter,  pepper,  and 
more  salt  if  needed.  When  partially  cool,  add  as  much  of  the  beaten 
t.gg  as  necessary  to  make  the  mixture  soft  and  creamy  and  yet  retain 
its  shape  when  formed  into  balls.  Take  up  the  mixture  by  spoonfuls, 
mould  slightly,  and  slip  into  the  fat. 

Or  shape  into  balls  and  roll  in  flour  or  meal. 

Or  egg  and  crumb  before  frying. 

I  c.  of  cold  cooked  fish  may  be  mixed  with  the  warm  mashed  pota- 
toes instead  of  using  the  salt  codfish.  This  mixture  may  be  baked  in  a 
rather  hot  oven,  or  browned  in  a  frying  pan.  This  makes  eight  cro- 
quettes. 

EGGS 

Tests  For  Freshness 

If  fresh,  they  will  sink  to  the  bottom  of  a  pan  of  water;  a  stale  egg 
will  rise.  The  shell  of  a  freshly  laid  egg  is  slightly  rough.  In  a  dark 
room  hold  the  egg  between  the  eye  and  a  lighted  candle ;  dark  spots  are 
an  indication  of  deterioration. 

Eggs  should  always  be  washed  before  using.  If  the  whites  only 
are  used  the  yolks  may  be  kept  from  hardening  by  covering  with  water 


24  WAR-TIME    COOKERY 

if  unbroken,  or  with  paraffin  paper  or  several  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth 
wet  in  cold  water  and  pressed  firmly  over  the  top  of  cup  or  bowl. 

Poached  Eggs 

Serve  on  toast  or  in  rice  or  potato  nests  with  cheese  or  tomato 
sauce. 

Hard  Cooked  Eggs 

Cut  four  eggs  into  eights  and  mix  with  i  c.  medium  white  or  toma- 
to sauce. 

Combine  eggs  with  macaroni  and  white  sauce.  Use  4  eggs,  i^  c. 
sauce  and  2  c.  cooked  macaroni.  Rice  may  be  used,  also  buttered 
crumbs  for  the  top.  Yi  to  i  pt.  oysters  may  be  partially  cooked  and 
substituted  for  eggs. 

Daisy  Eggs 

6  eggs,  I  c.  thick  white  sauce,  8  slices  of  bread.  Cut  the  bread 
pointed  at  one  end  to  represent  a  daisy  petal,  and  toast.  Sprinkle  yolks 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Chop  whites  fine  and 
add  to  sauce.  Place  toast  in  a  circle  with  points  out  and  cover  with 
sauce,  being  careful  it  does  not  run  off.  Pile  yolks  in  center  and  place 
parsley  between  each  petal.  Square  pieces  of  toast  may  be  used,  the 
white  mixture  put  on  top  and  the  yolks  sprinkled  over  this.  Boiled  rice 
or  cold  cereal  sliced  and  browned  may  be  used  for  a  foundation. 

OMELETS 

White  Sauce  OmeeET 

2  T.  each  of  butter  substitute  i  c.  Jiiilk. 

and  flour.  4  eggs. 

^  t.  salt  and  Va  t-  pepper. 

Heat  fat  until  it  bubbles,  add  flour  and  seasoning  and  cook  for  an 
instant.  Add  milk,  and  stir  until  it  reaches  boiling  point;  remove  and 
cool.  Add  yolks  of  eggs  and  then  cut  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  greased  frying  pan  and  cook  over  mod- 
erate heat  until  set.  Fold  omelet  over,  rolling  at  right  angles  to  the  pan 
handle ;  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter,  and  serve.  This  omelet  is  more  ten- 
der then  when  no  sauce  is  used  and  a  little  harder  to  fold.  The  mixture 
may  be  baked  in  a  moderate  oven  and  served  from  the  dish,  (time  20 
to  30  min.). 

Variations — Mix  chopped  parsley  with  sauce.  Before  folding 
spread  one-half  with  creamed  meat,  fish,  chopped  ham,  cheese,  aspara- 
gus or  other  vegetable.     This  serves  six. 


war-time  cookery  25 

Bread  Crumb  Omelet 


1/ 


c. 


milk.  Pepper. 


3^  c.  stale  bread.  i  T.  butter. 

H  t.  salt.  3  eggs. 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk  15  min.  add  yolks  and  seasoning,  and 
fold  in  the  whites.  Melt  fat  in  frying  pan  and  pour  in  the  mixture. 
Cook  slowly  until  under  part  is  brown  then  set  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  to  dry  the  top.    Fold  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

1/2  c.  cold  rice  may  be  used  in  place  of  cereal  although  this  will 
make  a  little  firmer  omelet.    This  makes  four  to  six  portions. 

CHEESE 

Cheese  is  rich  in  protein  and  fat  and  this  fact  should  be  kept  in 
mind  when  planning  meals.  There  is  another  point  to  be  considered  in 
combining  cheese  with  other  foods.  Whether  raw  or  cooked  it  is  in 
rather  compact  form  and  seems  to  demand  crusty  rolls,  toast,  crack- 
ers, macaroni  and  such  substances  which  call  for  thorough  mastication 
and  separation  of  the  food  particles. 

Cheese  Dishes  and  Their  Preparation 

For  convenience  they  might  be  grouped  as  follows : 

1.  Cheese  dishes  which  may  serve  as  main  part  of  the  meal. 

2.  Cheese  additions  to  soup  and  vegetables. 

3.  Cheese  salads,  sandwiches  and  similar  dishes. 

4.  Cheese  pastry,  sweets,  etc. 

Variety  may  be  obtained  in  recipes  by  change  of  flavorings.  Among 
the  best  flavorings  are  onion,  chives,  and  the  ordinary  green  pepper, 
mustard,  curry  powder,  and  Chili  powder. 

In  preparing  cheese  it  is  more  convenient  to  use  a  coarse  grater 
having  slits  instead  of  holes.  This  really  shaves  the  cheese,  and  this  is 
an  advantage  as  the  greater  does  not  become  clogged.  For  rarebits  and 
all  dishes  where  the  cheese  should  melt  quickly  and  evenly,  it  may  be 
chopped  or  sliced  thin. 

As  cheese  is  rich  in  protein  and  fat  little  or  no  fat  and  water  or 
skimmed  milk  may  be  used  in  many  recipes  which  call  for  a  large 
amount  of  cheese. 

Approximately,  one  ounce  of  cheese  is  equivalent  to  i  egg,  to  a 
glass  of  milk,  or  2  oz.  of  meat. 

Farmer's  Bulletin  487 — -"Cheese  and  Its  Bconomical  Use  in  the 
Diet." 

Cheese  Puff 

8  slices  of  bread.  5^  t.  salt  or  more. 

3  c.  milk.  Y2  lb.  cheese. 


26  WAR-TIME    COOKERY 

Beat  the  egg ;  add  the  salt  and  milk.  Put  two  layers  of  bread  and 
sliced  cheese  into  a  dish,  and  over  them  pour  the  milk  mixture.  Cook 
20  to  30  min.  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  or  until  the  liquid  has  been  ab- 
sorbed and  the  mixture  puffed.     Serve  at  once.     This  serves  eight. 

Cheese  Fondue 


I  1/3  c.  soft,  stale  crumbs. 

1/3  lb.  cheese,  or 

iy2  c.  milk. 

I  c.  cut  in  bits. 

y2  t.  salt  or  more  salt. 

3  eggs. 

Scald  the  milk,  add  crumbs,  cover  and  let  stand  five  minutes.  Add 
the  salt,  cheese  and  beaten  yolk.  Mix  well  and  cut  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
white  of  egg.  Pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish  and  cook  20  min.  in  a 
moderate  oven.  If  the  crumbs  are  very  stale,  a  little  more  milk  may  be 
required. 

I  c.  cooked  rice  or  other  cereal  may  be  substituted  for  the  bread 
crumbs. 

Welsh  Rabbit 

1  T.  butter  substitute  y^  t.  mustard. 
3/2  lb.  cheese.  spk.  cayenne. 
%  c.  milk.  I  egg. 

Yz  t.  salt. 

Beat  the  egg.  add  the  dry  seasonings  and  mix  well.  Put  the  butter 
into  a  double  boiler  or  chafing  dish,  when  melted  add  the  milk  and 
cheese  and  stir  constantly.  When  melted  and  smooth  add  the  egg  mix- 
ture, stir  constantly,  and  cook  until  the  latter  thickens.  Serve  on  bread 
which  has  been  toasted  on  one  side  only,  placing  untoasted  side  up. 

I  c.  cooked  rice  may  be  added  for  a  change.  This  makes  eight 
portions. 

Oyster  Rarebit 

Same  ingredients  as  above,  using  i  solid  c.  oysters  and  substituting- 
oyster  juice  for  milk.  Remove  tough  muscle  from  oysters,  clean,  par- 
boil, and  drain,  reserving  liquor.  Proceed  as  in  above  recipe,  adding; 
oysters  just  before  serving.     Serve  on  toast  or  crackers. 

Tomato  Rarebit 

2  T.  butter  substitute.  ^  t.  soda. 

2  T.  flour.  2  c.  grated  cheese  or 

3^  c.  thin  cream.  13^  c.  cut  into  cubes. 

y2  c.  stewed  and  i/^  t.  salt. 

strained  tomatoes.  y-2  t.  mustard. 

2  eggs.  Spk.  cayenne. 

Mix  last  four  ingredients  and  add  soda  to  tomatoes.  Make  a  white 
sauce  of  first  three  ingredients,  add  tomatoes  and  cheese  and  stir  alt 


WAR-TIME    COOKERY  27 

the  time.    When  latter  is  melted  add  egg  mixture,  cooking  and  stirring 
until  latter  thickens.     Serve  on  toast  or  crackers. 

Corn  and  Cheese  Souffle 

I   T.  butter  substitute.  i  c.  chopped  corn. 

1  T.  chopped  green  pepper.  i  c.  cheese. 
14  c.  flour.  y2  t.  salt. 

2  c.  milk.  3  eggs. 

Melt  fat  and  in  it  cook  the  pepper.  Make  a  sauce  out  of  the  flour 
and  milk.  Add  cheese,  corn,  seasoning,  and  yolks.  Cut  in  the  beaten 
whites,  turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  cook  30  to  40  min.  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Made  of  skimmed  milk  this  dish  has  a  food  value  slightly  in  excess 
of  a  pound  of  beef  and  a  pound  of  potatoes. 

Farmers'  Bulletin  487. 

Nut  and  Cheese  Roast 

1  T.  butter  substitute.  i  c.  bread  crumbs. 

2  T.  chopped  onion.  i   c.  chopped  nuts. 
Salt  and  pepper.  i  c.  cheese. 

2  t.  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 

Cook  onion  in  butter  and  a  little  water  until  tender.  Mix  all  in- 
gredients and  add  enough  water  to  moisten.  Pour  into  a  shallow  dish, 
and  bake  and  brown. 

Farmers'  Bulletin  487. 

Cottage  Cheese 

Take  freshly  set  sour  milk  or  clabber  and  stir  well  to  liberate  the 
whey.  Put  the  milk  into  a  bag,  tie,  hang  up  and  let  drip  five  or  six 
hours.  Put  the  bag  under  the  faucet  and  let  the  cold  water  run  over  the 
cheese  to  wash  away  any  whey  which  clings  to  the  curd,  as  this  is  the 
acid  part.  Hang  up  the  bag  for  a  few  minutes,  then  squeeze  gently  to 
remove  the  water.  Put  the  cheese  into  bowl,  season  with  salt  and  mix 
with  a  little  cream  or  melted  butter  if  desired.  Shape  into  balls  or  mould 
and  keep  in  a  cold  place.  The  milk  may  be  heated  slowly  in  a  double 
boiler  until  the  whey  rises  to  the  top,  the  latter  poured  off  and  the  curd 
drained  as  above.  The  curd  is  much  harder  and  dryer  prepared  this 
way.    Fancy  perforated  moulds  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  bag. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 

I  c.  macaroni   (2  c.  cooked).  ^'^  to  i  c.  grated  cheese. 

I  c.  sauce  No.  II.  i  c.  buttered  crumbs. 

Break  macaroni  into  inch  pieces,  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  and 
stir  occasionally  at  first  to  prevent  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  kettle. 
When  tender  enough  so  a  fork  or  spoon  will  cut  through  the  macaroni 


28  war-time;  cookery 

without  the  slightest  resistance,  turn  into  a  colander  or  sieve  and  let 
cold  water  run  through  it  to  prevent  the  pieces  from  adhering  to  each 
other.  Make  a  white  sauce,  add  the  cheese  and  macaroni,  mix  well, 
pour  into  buttered  dish,  cover  with  the  crumbs  and  place  in  the  oven  to 
re-heat  mixture  and  brown  crumbs.  The  crumbs  may  be  omitted  and 
small  pieces  of  cheese  sprinkled  over  the  surface.  The  macaroni  and 
cheese  may  be  put  into  the  dish  in  layers  and  hot  milk  poured  over  the 
mixture. 

2  c.  cooked  spaghetti,  rice,  big  hominy,  hominy  grits  or  other  mild 
flavored  grain  may  be  substituted  for  the  macaroni,  and  tomato  sauce 
for  the  white  sauce.     This  makes  six  to  eight  portions. 

Sanish  Rice  No.  I 

1  c.  rice.  2  T.  butter  substitute. 

3  green  peppers,  or  less,  cut  fine.        i   pt.  well  seasoned  tomatoes. 
Yz  c.  chopped  onion. 

Cook  rice  in  boiling  salted  water  15  min.  Melt  fat  and  in  it  brown 
the  onions  and  pepper.  Add  tomato  and  rice  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  I  hour.    For  variety  add  ^4  lb.  cheese. 

Spanish  Rice  No.  II 

3  c.  boiled  rice.  i^  c.  fried  onion. 

2  c.  well  seasoned  stewed  tomatoes,    i  c.  cheese. 

Put  the  ingredients  into  dish  in  layers,  having  rice  on  top.  If  pre- 
ferred the  ingredients  may  be  well  mixed  and  whole  covered  with  but- 
tered crumbs.    Put  into  the  oven  to  re-heat  mixture  and  brown  crumbs. 

Roman  Gnocchi 


Yx  c.  fat.  2  ^%g  yolks. 

34  c.  flour.  Ya,  c.  cheese. 

Y  c.  cornstarch.  Salt. 

I  pt.  milk. 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  first  four  ingredients.  Pour  a  little  of  this 
into  the  stirred  yolks  and  stir  this  into  the  sauce  very  quickly.  Add  the 
cheese  and  stir  until  it  melts.  Pour  into  a  greased  shallow  pan  and  cool. 
Cut  into  squares ;  place  them  in  a  baking  dish ;  sprinkle  with  remainder 
of  cheese  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Scalloped  Vegetables  and  Cheese 

Cooked  potatoes,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  or  onions.  Use  half  as  much 
medium  white  sauce  as  vegetable,  and  allow  Y2  c.  cheese  for  each  pint  of 
sauce.     Combine  materials,  cover  with  crumbs  and  re-heat  and  brown. 


war-time  cookery  29 

Fried  Onions  and  Cheese 

Allow  I  c.  sliced  onion  and  %  c.  cheese  for  each  person.     Fry  on- 
ions, add  cheese  and  stir  constantly  until  it  is  melted. 

Cheese  Straws 


I  T.  butter. 

%.  t.  salt. 

2/2,  c.  flour. 

ys  t.  pepper. 

I  c.  fresh  bread  crumbs. 

Spk.  cavenne. 

I  c.  o-rated  cheese. 

2  T.  milk. 

Mix  the  flour,  crumbs,  cheese,  and  seasoning.  Cream  the  butter, 
add  the  mixed  mtaerial,  then  the  milk.  Work  together  thoroughly  to 
form  a  stiff  paste ;  do  not  add  any  more  milk.  Roll  ^4  i"-  thick  and  cut 
in  narrow  strips.  Bake  until  a  golden  brown  (5  min.  oven  test).  Makes 
2  doz.  straws. 

RECIPES  FOR  USING  LEGUMES 

{Beans,  Peas,  Lentils,  Peanuts) 
Boston  Baked  Beans 

I  pt.  pea  beans.  }4  t.  mustard. 

1  to  2  t.  salt.  ■  }i  t.  pepper  (scant). 

2  T.  molasses.  J/4  lb.  salt  pork. 

Pick  over  beans,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  soak  overnight.  Drain, 
cover  with  cold  water,  add  a  pinch  of  soda,  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  parboil  20  min.,  or  until  the  skins  slip  off  easily.  Drain.  Scrape 
and  scald  pork  rind  and  cut  through  the  rind  every  half  inch.  Mix 
the  molasses  and  seasoning  with  a  little  boiling  water. 

Put  the  beans  into  the  bean  pot  or  crock  and  bury  the  pork  all  ex- 
cept the  rind.  Add  liquid  and  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover  the 
beans.  Cover  the  crock  and  bake  slowly  for  six  or  eight  hours.  Un- 
cover during  the  last  hour,  so  that  the  pork  rind  may  become  crisp. 
While  the  beans  are  baking  more  water  may  have  to  be  added. 

Some  people  like  the  flavor  of  a  little  minced  onion  and  some 
tomato  cooked  with  the  beans.  Oils  and  other  fats  may  be  substituted 
for  the  pork  but  will  not  give  quite  the  same  flavor.  Other  varieties  of 
beans  as  well  as  dried  peas  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner.  The 
beans  may  be  baked  in  a  shallow  pan  and  the  molasses  omitted.  These 
beans  are  drier  and  more  broken  than  the  others.     This  serves  twelve. 

Loaf — (Any  of  the  Legumes) 

I   pt.  cooked  beans,  etc.  W^ater,  tomato  juice  or 

I  ot.  stale  crumbs.  other  liquid. 

I  T.  or  more,  onion.  i  egg. 

Combine  ingredients  adding  sufficient  liquid  to  hold  the  mixture 
together.     Put  into  a  greased  pan  and  bake  about  30  min. 


30  war-time  cookery 

Peanut  Loaf 

I  c.  chopped  nuts.  i  Qgg. 

I  pt.  well  seasoned  mashed  potato.    J/2  c.  milk. 

I  T.  onion  or  parsley,  if  liked. 

Combine  ingredients  and  put  into  pan.  Bake  about  20  min.  More 
peanuts  may  be  used.     Six  portions. 

Hot  Bean  Custard 

I  c.  bean  pulp.  i  c.  milk. 

Any  seasoning  desired.  2  eggs. 

Beat  eggs  until  mixed  but  not  foamy ;  add  milk  and  gradually  add 
this  to  the  pulp  of  beans  which  have  been  pressed  through  a  sieve.  The 
mixture  must  be  quite  highly  seasoned  or  it  is  insipid.  Pour  into  greased 
dish  and  set  in  a  pan  of  luke-warm  water,  which  should  come  as  high 
on  the  outside  of  the  moulds  as  the  mixture  is  inside.  See  that  the 
water  does  not  boil,  or  the  custard  will  over  cook. 

Test — A  clean,  dry  knife  inserted  gently  in  the  center  should  come 
out  without  anything  adhering  to  it  if  the  custard  is  cooked.  It  will 
take  about  25  min.  for  small  moulds.  Turn  out  on  a  platter  and  place 
well  seasoned  macaroni  around  the  custard.  Tomato  sauce  may  be 
served  with  the  dish. 

Polenta 

4  c.  white  cooked  beans.  Salt  and  pepper, 

i^  T.  molasses.  2  t.  vinegar. 

j4  t.  mustard. 

Mash  the  beans  and  mix  with  the  other  ingredients.  Form  into 
cakes  and  brown  on  both  sides. 

Mexican  FrijolES  (Mexican  Beans) 

1  pt.  beans  (or  use  kidney  beans).    %  c.  minced  onion. 

2  T.  lard.  5  green  Chilies. 

I  tomato  or  y^  c.  solid  pulp.  i  t.  Chili  powder. 

I  t.  salt. 

After  cooking  the  beans  should  measure  3  pts.  Melt  the  fat  in  a 
frying  pan,  add  part  of  the  beans  and  mash  just  a  few;  repeat.  Cook 
the  other  ingredients  just  long  enough  to  make  a  paste.  Turn  the  beans 
into  serving  dish  and  spread  the  sauce  over  the  beans  before  serving. 
The  materials  should  be  unevenly  mixed.    This  serves  twelve. 

Kidney  Bean  Stew 

I  c.  beans.  i  pt.  water. 

54  c.  celery  or  y^  t.  2  T.  drippings. 

Celery  salt.  i  pt.  diced  potatoes. 

54  c.  onions.  i  T.  salt. 
I  pt.  tomatoes. 


WAR-TIME    COOKERY  31 

Soak  the  beans  overnight,  cut  celery  into  half  inch  pieces,  chop 
onion.  Put  the  ingredients  into  a  kettle  and  simmer  3  or  4  hours.  Half 
an  hour  before  serving  add  the  fat  and  more  seasoning  if  necessary. 
There  should  be  very  little  liquid  at  the  end.  if  there  is,  thicken  it  a  lit- 
tle.    Canned  beans  may  used ;  in  this  case  use  only  i  c.  water. 

Bean  Salads 

Beans  of  all  kinds  make  very  acceptable  salads  if  well  seasoned. 
Celery,  onion,  and  pimentoes  are  flavors  which  blend  well  with  the 
beans.     If  fresh  celery  is  not  convenient,  celery  seed  may  be  used. 

Bean  Soup  (See  Soups) 
BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

Flour  Mlxtures 

Flour — Use  a  flour  containing  a  large  percentage  of  gluten  for  all 
yeast  work,  as  this  will  make  a  larger  loaf  because  of  the  elasticity  of 
the  gluten.  Use  a  Winter  wheat  or  pastry  flour  for  all  other  batters  awd 
doughs.  Bread  can  be  made  from  a  soft  flour  but  requires  dilTerent 
"handling.  To  convert  a  strong  bread  flour  into  a  soft  flour  for  cake 
and  pastry  work,  substitute  2  T.  cornstarch  for  two  T.  flour  in  every 
cupful  used.  Always  measure  flour  after  sifting,  as  this  will  make  a 
great  difl'erence  in  the  results.  It  is  well  to  keep  a  jar  of  sifted  flour  on 
hand  in  order  to  save  time. 

Fat — Butter,  butter  substitutes,  drippings,  hardened  vegetable  fats, 
and  oils  may  be  used.  Since  butter  is  about  85  percent  fat  and  the  hard- 
ened vegetable  fats,  and  oils  are  approximately  100  percent,  use  2  T. 
less  to  the  cupful  when  these  are  substituted  for  butter.  Clarified  chic- 
ken fat  contains  about  the  same  amount  of  water  as  butter,  and  there- 
fore may  replace  the  latter,  cupful  for  cupful.  Thin  cream  is  equiva- 
lent to  %  c.  fat  and  ^.  c.  milk.  Whipping  cream  (40  percent)  is  equiv- 
alent to  a  scant  ^  c.  fat  and  full  ^  c.  milk.  For  each  cupful  of  nuts 
used  decrease  the  fat  i^  T.  When  unsalted  fats  are  used  allow  i  t. 
salt  for  each  cupful. 

Siveetening — This  material  may  be  sugar,  brown  sugar,  molasses, 
honey,  corn  syrup.  It  takes  approximately  i  1/3  c.  of  powdered  or 
brown  sugar  lightly  measured  to  replace  i  c.  granulated  sugar,  i  c. 
molasses  sweetens  about  as  much  as  -14  c.  sugar ;  i  c.  corn  syrup  would 
be  equivalent  to  a  little  more  than  ^  c.  sugar.  For  this  reason  when  the 
last  two  are  used  recipes  often  call  for  a  little  sugar  to  give  the  sweet 
taste  to  v,'hich  we  are  accustomed,  \\n.ien  the  syrups  are  substituted 
for  sugar  use  a  little  less  liquid. 

Liquids — Skimmed  milk  contains  some  solid  material,  therefore 
when  substituting  water  use  2  T.  less  for  each  cupful.     If  sour  milk  is 


32  WAR-TIME    COOKERY 

used  to  replace  sweet  milk  use  >^  t.  soda  for  each  cupful  of  milk.  Y^  t, 
soda  will  replace  approximately  i>4  t.  baking  powder.  For  sour  cream 
see  discussion  of  fats. 

Leavening  Agents — Sour  milk,  molasses,  fruit,  and  chocolate  all 
contain  acid  substitutes.  Use  ^  t.  soda  for  each  cupful  of  sour  milk; 
I  t.  for  each  cupful  of  molasses ;  i  t.  soda  to  approximately  2^  t.  of 
cream  of  tartar;  i  t.  soda  with  the  proper  acid  to  replace  approximately 
3  t.  baking  powder.  Use  i  t.  baking  powder  for  each  cupful  of  flour 
when  eggs  are  utilized ;  use  2  t.  when  none  are  used.  When  buckwheat, 
cornmeal,  barley  meal,  etc.,  are  substituted  for  flour,  increase  the  bak- 
ing powder  a  trifle.  When  eggs  are  omitted  from  a  recipe  increase  the 
baking  powder  about  y^  t.  for  each  egg.  If  more  soda  is  used  in  a  flour 
mixture  than  is  needed  to  offset  the  acid,  a  yellow  color  and  peculiar 
taste  results.  The  excess  of  soda  will  combine  with  fat  to  give  a  pun- 
gent, biting  flavor. 

Bggs — Eggs  thin  a  mixture  when  raw  and  thicken  when  cooked. 
Too  intense  heat  will  toughten  eggs ;  therefore  sponge  cakes  especially 
require  a  moderate  oven. 

Approximate  Proportions  for  Batters  and  Doughs 

I  c.  liquid  to  i  c.  flour  makes  a  batter  that  will  pour  from  a  spoon. 
I  c.  liquid  to  2  c.  flour  makes  a  batter  that  will  drop  from  a  spoon. 
I  c.  liquid  to  3  c.  flour  makes  a  soft  dough  that  can  be  handled. 
I  c.  liquid  to  4  c.  flour  makes  a  stiff  dough  that  can  be  rolled. 

General  Rules 

Flours  vary  in  the  amount  of  moisture  which  they  require  so  that 
the  consistency  of  batters  or  mixtures  containing  leavening  agents, 
sugar,  etc.,  should  always  be  regulated  by  leaving  out  or  adding  liquid, 
never  by  varying  the  flour,  because  this  makes  all  the  other  dry  mater- 
ials wrong,  as  these  are  proportionate  to  the  flour  used. 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the  eggs  without  separat- 
ing, and  add  part  of  the  milk  to  them.  Make  a  hollow  or  well  in  the 
center  of  the  dry  mixture,  add  the  liquid  slowly  gradually  working  in 
the  flour,  and  keep  the  same  consistency  all  the  way  through  the  pro- 
cess. Always  reserve  a  little  of  the  milk  until  sure  it  will  be  needed. 
When  a  flaky  texture  is  desired  as  in  baking-powder  biscuits,  always 
cut  the  fat  into  the  flower,  otherwise  melt  it  and  add  at  the  last. 

Arrange  the  fire,  dishes  for  mixing,  pans  for  baking  and  measure 
everything  before  beginning  to  put  the  material  together.  Work  quick- 
ly, mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  at  once  all  mixtures  containing  baking 
powders,  or  other  leavening  agents.  In  a  coal  range,  bake  first  on  the 
floor  of  the  oven  and  then  put  the  biscuit,  etc.,  on  the  shelf  to  brown; 
in  a  gas  range,  bake  in  the  center  of  the  oven. 


WAR-TIMU    COOKERY  35 

POPOVERS 

2  c.  flour  (part  white,  part  2  eg:;;s. 

entire  wheat  or  rye).  2  c.  mi^k. 

3^  t.  salt. 

Use  iron  gem  pans  or  earthern  cups  for  baking,  and  place  them  in 
the  oven  to  heat  while  mixing  the  ingredients.  Grease  cups  after  heat- 
ing. Mix  the  materials  according  to  rule  and  beat  hard  with  an  egg 
beater  just  before  pouring  into  the  cups,  which  should  not  be  over  half 
full.  Put  immediately  into  a  very  hot  oven  and  bake  30  to  45  min. 
Lower  the  heat  during  the  last  half  of  the  baking.  The  secret  of  good 
popovers  is  in  having  hot  cups,  a  hot  oven,  and  not  opening  the  door  for 
10  min.,  as  most  of  the  puffing  is  due  to  change  of  moisture  into  steam. 
This  makes  nine  to  ten  popovers. 

Griddle  Cakes 

2  c.  flour.  I  egg. 

Yo  t.  salt.  I  to  2  T.  fat  (melted). 

3  t.  baking  powder.  tJ/  c.  milk,  or  milk  and  water. 

Mix  according  to  rule  and  cook  at  once.  Do  not  beat  the  mixture 
each  time  before  baking  as  this  drives  ofif  the  gas  formed  from  the  bak- 
ing powder.  Part  rye  or  entire  wheat  flour  may  be  used.  Sour  milk 
may  be  used  substituting  .)4  t.  soda  for  baking  powder.  If  the  sour 
milk  cakes  are  made  a  little  thicker,  they  are  very  good  without  the  fat. 
3/2  to  I  c.  cooked  rice  may  be  softened  in  the  milk.  (With  these  cakes 
use  4  t.  baking  powder. ) 

The  griddle  or  waffle  iron  should  be  heated  slowly  and  be  hot 
enough  to  evaporate  instantly  water  sprinkled  on  it.  Put  a  piece  of 
hard  fat  on  a  fork  and  grease  irons  well  but  do  not  leave  little  pools  of 
fat  to  burn  and  smoke.  Pour  batter  upon  the  griddle  from  the  end 
of  a  spoon  or  a  pitcher  in  order  to  make  round  cakes.  As  soon  as  the 
bubbles  begin  to  appear  all  over,  but  before  they  break  through  the 
surface,  turn  the  cakes.     Turn  but  once,  otherwise  they  will  be  heavy. 

Waffles 

Use  the  griddle  cake  mixture  with  2  eggs.  Separate  eggs ;  beat 
whites  stiff  and  cut  into  the  batter  the  last  thing.  Do  not  fill  the  iron 
more  than  half  full,  or  the  batter  will  run  out.  Cook  one  minute  on 
each  side  and  keep  turning  until  the  waffles  are  crisp. 

Bread  Griddle  Cakes 

lyi  c.  fine  stale  crumbs.  i  egg. 

lYi  c.  milk.  ><  c.  flour. 

I  to  2  T.  fat.  2  t.  baking  powder. 

^  t.  salt. 


34  WAR-TIME    COOKERY 

Heat  the  milk,  put  in  the  bread  and  fat,  cover,  and  let  stand  15 
min.,  or  until  the  bread  is  soft.  Mash  well  or  press  through  a  coarse 
sieve.  Add  the  beaten  eggs  and  pour  the  mixture  into  the  dry  ingred- 
ients which  have  been  sifted  together. 

Corn  Meal  Cakes 

14  c.  meal.  !  S  t.  salt. 

2  c.  liquid.  ::;  t    baking  powder. 

1  egg.  H  c.  flour. 

Heat  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  the  meal,  and  cook  5  min.  W'hen 
cool  add  the  beaten  egg,  and  combine  mixtures. 

Muffins — (Standard  Proportions) 

2  c.  flour.  I  Qgg- 

1  t.  salt.  I  c.  milk.  (  ?) 

4  t.  baking  powder.  4  T.  fat  (melted) 

Use  sufficient  liquid  to  make  a  very  soft  drop  batter,  almost  a  pour 
batter.     Bake  20  to  25  min.  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Variations — Substitute  -;4  c.  cooked  barley,  rice,  oatmeal,  hominy- 
grits,  or  dried  crumbs  for  34  c.  of  the  flour.  These  mufiins  will  be  a 
little  more  moist  after  baking  than  the  wheat  mufiins. 

Omit  the  egg,  use  5  t.  baking  powder  and  ^  to  i  c.  corn  meal,  rye 
meal,  crushed  rolled  oats,  etc.  Put  materials  together  very  quickly, 
and  place  in  the  oven  at  once.  This  mixture  may  be  baked  in  a  shallow 
pan  and  cut  into  squares.  The  corn  meal  mixture  is  especially  nice 
when  crusty.  Sour  milk  and  soda  may  also  be  utilized.  Ten  to  twelve 
muffins. 

Bran  Muffins 

13^2  c.  bran.  i  egg. 

i^A  c.  flour.  y^  c.  molasses. 

2  t.  salt.  I  c.  sour  milk. 
^  t.  soda. 

Sift  the  soda  and  salt  with  the  flour,  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the 
bran.  Mix  egg  with  molasses  and  pour  into  the  center  of  the  dry  in- 
gredients. As  you  begin  to  n.iix  the  materials,  pour  in  the  milk  rapidly. 
This  mixture  must  be  a  drop  batter  and  look  spongy  when  put  into  the 
pans.  The  egg  may  be  omitted  and  the  batter  made  a  trifle  thicker. 
Bake  40  min.  in  a  moderate  oven.    One  dozen  mufiins. 

Bkown  Bread 

2  c.  rye  meal.  i  t.  salt. 

I  c.  yellow  conmieal.  jA  c.  molasses. 

y2  T.  soda.'  I  pt.  sour  milk. 


WAR-TIME    COOKERY  35 

Mix  the  meals  but  do  not  sift  as  this  removes  the  bran.  Sift  soda 
and  salt  together  to  remove  any  lumps  and  blend  thoroughly  with  the 
meals.  Make  a  well  in  the  center,  pour  in  the  molasses  and  rapidly 
add  the  milk,  mixing  the  ingredients  quickly.  (Soft  drop  batter).  Fill 
well  greased  molds  2./-^^  full  and  steam  4  hours.  This  may  be  baked  in 
muffin  tins  45  min. 

Spoon  Bread 

I  c.  soft  white  or  Southern  meal.  r  c.  boiling  water. 

1  T.  sweetening.  2  eggs. 

2  t.  salt.  T  c.  sour  milk. 
2  T.  fat.  y.  t.  soda. 

Put  the  first  four  ingredients  into  a  bowl  and  over  them  pour  the 
boiling  water.  When  cooled  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  milk.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  i  T.  cold  water,  add  to  the  mixture  and  beat  in  quickly  and 
thoroughly.  Bake  30  min.  in  a  moderate  oven.  Sweet  milk  and  2  t. 
baking  powder  may  be  used,  sprinkling  the  powder  over  the  top  and 
beating  well.  Half  a  cupful  of  cooked  rice  or  hominy  grits  may  be 
added  to  the  dish. 

Fritters 

2c  flour.  I  c.  milk.   (?) 

2  t.  baking  pov.'der.  2  T.  fat. 

■'  Qgg.  I  c.  chopped  clams,  apple  or  corn. 

This  is  really  a  fried  muffin  mixture  made  a  little  stiffer  than  for 
baking.  Drain  clams  well,  remove  black  portion,  chop  fine.  Add  the 
last  thing  and  use  a  scant  amount  of  salt  in  the  batter.  The  mixture 
should  be  rather  a  thick  drop  batter.  Drop  into  hot  fat  which  will 
brown  a  piece  of  stale  bread  in  i  min.  When  cooked,  a  fork  or  knit- 
ting needle  stuck  into  the  fritter  should  come  out  clean. 

Fat  for  frying  may  be  lard,  suet,  the  various  cottonseed  products, 
corn  or  peanut  oil.  A  mixture  of  hard  and  soft  fats,  such  as  chicken 
and  suet,  makes  a  good  combination.  Lard  and  suet  smoke  and  de- 
compose at  a  much  lower  temperature  than  the  cottonseed  products,  and 
much  more  of  the  former  is  absorbed  in  cooking.  Care  in  heating  and 
clarifying  also  determines  the  number  of  times  fat  can  be  used. 

Tests  for  Hot  Fat — Materials  already  cooked  or  requiring  little 
cooking  need  hotter  fat  than  those  which  are  uncooked.  When  a  cube 
of  bread  brov.'ns  in  60  seconds  the  fat  's  riT;ht  for  bitters.  Use  a  forty 
second  test  for  articles  to  be  re-heated  and  brow^ned.  Use  a  20  second 
test  for  fried  potatoes  or  cold  wet.  rt-"^ooked  foods,  r-^rticularly  if  pre- 
pared in  large  amounts,  as  they  cool  the  fat  considerably. 


36  WAR-TIME    COOKERY 

Biscuits — (Standard  Proportions) 

2  c.  flour.  2  to  4  T.  fat. 

I  t.  salt.  H  c.  milk  or  water.  (?) 

4  t.  baking  powder. 

Work  the  fat  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  liquid  steadily, 
trying  not  to  moisten  the  same  portion  twice.  Toss  out  onto  a  floured 
board  and  pat  or  roll  out  gently.  Cut  into  rounds  and  moisten  the  top 
with  milk  or  fat  to  help  brown.     Bake  12  to  15  min.  in  a  hot  oven. 

Variations 

Short  Cake 

Use  the  full  amount  of  fat.  Roll  thin  making  the  shape  of  the 
pan,  or  cut  into  large  circles  if  for  individual  cakes.  Bake,  split,  and 
butter,  spread  with  fruit  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Fruit  Roees 

Roll  dough  half  an  inch  thick  keeping  it  oblong  in  shape.  Spread 
with  butter  substitute,  but  do  not  go  too  near  the  edges,  lest  it  will 
squeeze  out.  Sprinkle  with  brown  sugar,  cinnamon  and  any  dried  f riut. 
Beginning  the  narrow  way  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll.  Cut  off  slice  i  in. 
thick,  place  in  muffin  tins  or  in  a  round  cake  tin  with  the  cut  surfaces  up 
and  down.  Bake  15  to  20  min.,  depending  upon  the  size  of  rolls  and 
closeness  together  in  pan. 

Egg  Roles 
Use  one  beaten  egg  and  less  liquid.     Cut  into  long  narrow  strips. 

Baked  AppeE  Dumpeing 

Roll  the  dough  as  thin  as  for  pie  crust  and  cut  into  four  or  five 
inch  squares.  In  the  center  of  each,  place  sliced  apple  and  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  and  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  and  a  speck  of  salt.  Fold  the  corners 
together,  pinching  the  edges  to  prevent  juice  from  escaping.  The  edges 
may  be  moistened  with  water.  Bake  about  20  min.  and  serve  with 
liquid  sauce. 

Drop  or  Emergency  Biscuit 

Make  the  mixture  a  little  softer  and  drop  on  greased  tins  allowing 
room  to  spread.    These  also  make  a  good  eggless  muffin. 

Apple  Cake 

Use  I  egg  and  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  stiff  drop  batter.  Spread 
in  a  greased  pan,  and  press  the  sharp  edges  of  sliced  apples  down  into 


WAR-TIME   COOKERY  37 

the  batter.  Sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  brown  sugar,  and  bake  20  to 
30  min.    Eat  with  butter  or  serve  with  a  sauce. 

Currents,  raisins,  or  chopped  cooked  orange  peel  may  be  mixed 
with  the  dough. 

^  c.  corn  meal,  rolled  oats,  or  mashed  potato  may  be  substituted 
for  that  amount  of  flour.  All  three  of  these  are  a  little  more  compact 
than  the  all  flour  mixture  and  should  stand  five  minutes  before  going 
into  the  oven.    They  should  begin  to  rise  a  little  before  baking. 

Steamed  Dumpeings 

Use  2  T.  fat  and  2  t.  baking  powder.  Cut  over  into  biscuit  shape, 
or  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  top  of  a  stew,  or  steam  over  water.  Keep 
closely  covered  or  the  dumplings  will  fall. 

Baking  Powder  Breads 

Use  2  t.  baking  powder  and  i  T.  or  no  fat.  Make  a  drop  batter 
and  put  into  a  bread  tin.  Let  the  mixture  stand  15  min.  before  baking. 
Bake  about  45  min.  in  a  moderate  oven.  ^  c.  sweetening  and  chopped 
orange  peel  or  other  fruit  may  be  added  if  desired.  Chopped  nuts  make 
a  pleasing  change.  Part  rye  flour  may  be  used,  or  all  graham  flour. 
Sour  milk  may  be  substituted  for  sweet  milk,  using  Vz  t.  soda  for  each 
cupful  milk. 

Spice  Cake 

Add  y^  c.  molasses,  ^4  c.  sugar,  i  t.  cinnamon,  ^  t.  cloves,  and 
use  the  full  amount  of  fat.  Make  a  soft  drop  batter  and  bake  in  small 
tins.    Work  very  quickly  and  get  the  mixture  into  the  oven  at  once 


CAKES  AND  COOKIES 

Eggles,  Butterless,  Miekless,  Wheatless  Cake 

I  c.  brown  sugar  or  molasses.  ^  t.  cloves. 

134  c.  water.  ^  t.  nutmeg. 

1/3  c.  hard  fat  or  oil.  i  c.  rye  flour. 

I   c.   seeded  raisins.  i  c.  corn  flour. 

J/2  t.  salt.  4  t.  baking  powder  or 

I  t.  cinnamon.  i  t.  soda  if  molasses  is  used. 

If  corn  flour  is  unobtainable,  use  graham  or  whole  wheat.  All 
graham  may  be  substituted.  Boil  everything  but  the  flour  and  leaven 
for  3  min.  When  the  mixture  is  cool  add  the  last  two  ingredients  sifted 
together.    This  should  be  a  stiff  drop  batter.    Bake  in  a  pan  with  a  tube 


38  WAR-TIME    COOKERY 

in  the  center.  All  moist  cakes  are  better  if  the  heat  can  penetrate  the 
center  although  the  mixture  can  be  baked  in  a  loaf.  Cook  45  to  60  min. 
in  a  modrate  oven.  Cold  coffee  may  be  used  for  liquid  in  any  dark  cake. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 

y.  c.  fat.  lA  t.  cloves. 

I  c.  brown  sugar  or  molasses.  2  c.  flour  (any  mixture) 

I  c.  unsweetened  apple  sauce.  t  c.  raisins  or  other  fruit. 

3/2  t.  salt.  vSoda. 

I  t.  cinnamon. 

Soften  or  slightly  melt  the  fat  and  add  the  sweetening.  Add  al- 
ternately the  apple  sauce  and  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  raisins  last, 
using  a  little  of  the  flour  for  coating  them.  This  also  is  a  stiff  drop 
batter.  Bake  in  same  manner  as  Eggless,  Butterless  cake.  If  the  sugar 
is  used  add  only  i  t.  soda  for  that,  the  sauce,  and  the  raisins.  If  mo- 
lasses is  substituted,  use  i^  t.  soda. 

Spice  Cake — {See  "Biscuits) 

Cottage  Pudding  Cake 

I  T.  fat.  rlA  c.  flour. 

1-3  c.  sugar  or  other  sweetening.        i  t.  'diking  powder. 

1  ^gg-  ^2  c.  liquid. 

y^   t.  salt.  Any  flavoring  desired. 

Melt  the  fat  and  add  the  sugar  as  well  as  you  can.  Add  the  egg 
and  beat  thoroughly  to  partially  dissolve  the  sugar.  Add  alternately  the 
sifted  dry  materials  and  the  liquid.  Make  a  pour  batter,  and  bake  15  ta 
20  min.  in  small  tins  or  30  min.  in  a  loaf.  Serve  with  a  sauce.  The 
cake  drys  quickly,  so  it  is  better  eaten  the  day  it  is  baked. 

Chocolate  Cake 

3/2  c.  fat.  iVj  t.  baking  powder. 

2  c.  brown  sugar.  ^4  t.  soda. 

2  eggs.  .j-j  c.  shaved  chocolate  or 

^  c.  sour  milk.  y^  c.  chocolate  dissolved  in 

I  t.  vanilla.  ^A  c.  l^oiling  water. 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner  adding  the  cool  chocolate  after  the  eggs. 
Cocoa  has  about  half  as  much  fat  as  chocolate ;  so  if  former  is  used  the 
fat  may  be  increased  a  trifle.  This  mixture  makes  a  very  soft  drop 
batter,  almost  a  pour  batter.  If  more  liquid  is  needed  use  sweet  milk 
or  water.  Bake  in  shallow  pan  about  half  an  hour.  Chocolate  burns 
readily,  so  lower  the  heat  during  the  last  part  of  the  time. 


WAR-TIME    COOKERY  39 

Gingerbread  No.  I 

y^  c.  fat.  2  c.  flour. 

3^  c.  brown  sugar.  2  t.  gins^er. 

y2  c.  molasses.  J/>   t.  salt. 

I  &gg.  -^M  t.  soda. 
Y2  c.  sour  milk. 

Make  a  pour  batter  and  cook  in  muffin  tins.  Bake  about  20  min. 
in  a  moderate  oven.     Molasses  burns  easily. 

Gingerbread  No.  II 

y  c.  fat.  '}i  t.  soda. 

3^2  c.  sugar.  I  t.  baking  soda. 

94  c.  molasses.  }i  c.  milk. 

I  T.  ginger.  2  c.  rye  flour. 

><  t.  salt. 

Pour  into  muffin  tins  and  bake  20  min.  in  moderate  oven.  These 
cakes  are  very  much  better  after  they  have  been  kept  in  a  bread  or  cake 
tin  several  hours.  When  first  removed  from  the  oven  the  crust  is  a 
little  firm. 

Indian  Meal  Fried  Cakes 

i^  c.  soft  white  or  Southern  2  eggs. 

cornmeal.  i  t.  cinnamon. 

94  c.  milk.  13.4  t.  salt. 

y  c.  drippings  or  oil.  2  t.  baking  powder. 

y\  c.  corn  syrup.  1^/2  c.  white  flour. 

Cook  milk  and  meal  in  a  double  boiler  for  10  min.  Add  fat  and 
sweetening.  When  cool  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  combine  with  the 
sifted  dry  materials.  Roll  out,  cut,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on 
absorbent  paper.     (30  to  36  cakes). 

Potato  Fried  Cakes 

J4  c.  fat.  It.  nutmeg. 

y  c.  sugar.  V,  c.  sour  milk. 

y2  c.  corn  syrup.  ^  t.  soda. 

I  t.  salt.  2  t.  baking  powder. 

I  c.  hot  mashed  potato.  Flour. 

Put  the  first  four  ingredients  into  a  bowl  and  add  the  hot  potato. 
Mix  well,  add  the  egg  and  sour  milk.  Sift  soda  and  spice  with  a  little 
flour  and  add  next.  Continue  adding  flour  until  tlie  mixture  can  be 
rolled  out.  Make  these  as  soft  as  possible  without  soaking  fat.  Fry 
as  usual.  These  cakes  will  keep  moist  for  a  number  of  days.  (3  doz. 
cakes). 


40  v/ar-time  cooki'ry 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

34  c.  fat.  K'  c-  fi^^'i"- 

Yi  c.  brown  sugar.  J-4  t.  salt. 

1  egg.  y^  t.  cinnamon. 

2  T.  liquid  (coffee,  milk,  or  water)  ^4  t.  cloves. 

I  c.  rolled  oats.  2  t.  baking  powder. 

Cream  fat,  add  sugar  and  mix  thoroughly.  Add  beaten  eggs,  liquid, 
^our,  and  rolled  oats.  This  should  be  a  stiff  drop  batter.  Drop  by 
teaspoonfuls  on  a  greased  tin,  allowing  plenty  of  room  to  spread. 
I{.aisins,  currants,  or  nuts  could  be  added,  using  3^^  c.  of  any  one  of 
.these.    Cooked,  chopped  orange  or  lemon  peel  gives  a  change  of  flavor. 

BREAD 

The  gluten  of  wheat  is  a  mixture  of  substances  which,  when  mixed 
with  liquid,  makes  an  elastic  mass.  When  gas  is  formed  in  the  dough, 
the  latter  will  rise  and  expand  until  it  reaches  a  breaking  poin.t  Good 
bread  flour  has  the  right  kind  and  amount  of  gluten.  In  general,  spring 
wheats  have  more  of  this  property,  although  a  hard  winter  wheat  may 
be  used. 

Rye  flour  has  less  of  this  elastic  quality,  and  therefore  is  unsatis- 
factory for  use  alone.  It  is  impossible  to  make  light  bread  from  corn 
meal  alone.  Even  those  breads  made  by  combining  corn  with  wheat 
or  rye  cannot  be  handled  like  breads  made  from  wheat.  The  process 
is  much  shorter.  The  bread  may  be  mixed,  kneaded,  and  placed  in  a 
deep  pan  at  once,  and  baked  as  soon  as  light.  Or,  it  may  be  made  into 
<a  very  stiff'  dough  at  once  (since  it  softens  as  it  rises)  and  then  light 
worked  just  enough  to  shape  into  loaves.  If  possible,  pans  should  be 
;so  placed  in  the  oven  that  air  will  circulate  around  them.  If  they  touch 
»each  other  or  the  sides  of  the  oven,  the  loaves  of  bread  will  rise  uneven- 
ly and  be  unsightly.  If  the  oven  is  crowded,  it  may  be  necessary  to 
change  the  position  of  the  pans  occasionally  to  insure  well  shaped 
loaves. 

Mashed  potatoes  may  be  used  in  bread,  and  every  pound  of  mash- 
•ed  potato  contains  about  1%  c.  water  and  starch,  etc.,  equivalent  to 
those  substances  in  i  c.  wheat  flour.  Doughs  containing  a  large  amount 
of  potato  must  be  very  stiff,  since  the  potato  contains  water  which  will 
cause  the  dough  to  soften  as  it  ferments. 

General  Rules 

If  milk  is  used,  scald  to  prevent  souring.  Liquid  should  be  luke- 
"warm  for  best  growth  of  yeast.  If  too  warm  it  will  kill  the  yeast  and 
make  flour  pasty;  if  too  cold  it  will  retard  the  growth  of  the  yeast.  The 
temperature  of  a  warm  room  is  right  for  the  dough,  and  an  even  tem- 
perature will  produce  the  best  results. 


war-time;  cookery  41 

An  ordinary  sized  loaf  of  bread  should  bake  i  hour.  Whole  wheat, 
Tye  bread,  etc.,  should  cook  a  little  longer.  The  oven  at  first  should  be 
hot  enough  to  brown  a  piece  of  heavy  white  paper,  or  i  t.  flour  in  5 
:min.  The  heat  should  increase  during  the  first  quarter  of  the  time, 
remain  constant  the  next  two  quarters,  and  decrease  the  last  quarter. 
Rolls,  being  smaller,  require  a  hotter  oven.  When  bread  is  baked,  re- 
move from  pan  and  cool  on  a  rack,  if  a  crusty  loaf  is  liked.  If  soft 
crust  is  desired,  brush  with  liquid  or  fat,  or  wrap  in  a  clean  cloth  when 
the  loaves  are  partially  cooled. 

Put  sweetening,  salt,  potato,  squash,  etc.,  and  fat  in  bowl  and  pour 
in  hot  liquid.  When  the  mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  softened  yeast  and 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  sponge  (soft  drop  batter)  ;  it  will  take  between 
one  half  and  two  thirds  of  full  amount.  Beat  hard  for  a  few  minutes, 
-cover  and  let  double  in  bulk.  Then  add  sufficient  flour  to  enable  the 
•dough  to  be  handled.  Turn  out  onto  a  floured  board  and  knead  until 
smooth  and  elastic.  It  should  rebound  under  the  pressure  of  the  fin- 
ger; also  stop  sticking  to  the  board.  Put  into  a  greased  or  moistened 
bowl  and  grease  or  moisten  the  top  in  the  same  manner  to  prevent  a 
crust  from  forming.  When  doubled  in  bulk  separate  into  pieces  for 
the  loaves  and  knead  to  break  up  large  bubbles  and  make  fine  grained. 
When  the  dough  is  light  bake. 

The  making  of  the  sponge  may  be  omitted,  although  this 
hastens  the  process,  and  the  materials  mixed  and  kneaded  in  the  be- 
ginning and  later  shaped. 

Salt  has  a  tendency  to  retard  the  fermentation,  so  if  the  sponge 
method  is  used,  the  salt  may  be  added  with  the  second  lot  of  flour.  It 
is  a  good  plan  to  measure  salt  and  put  it  on  top  of  the  sponge  so  it  will 
-not  be  forgotten. 

Wheat  Bread 

2  c.  liquid.  2  t.  salt. 

I  T.  sweetening.  ^  to  i  yeast  cake. 

I  T.  fat.  6  c.  flour  (about). 

Prepare  according  to  the  general  rule  for  bread  made  with  a 
sponge  or  the  straight  dough  method.     This  will  make  two  loaves. 

Potato  Bread 

Use  from  Yz  to  2c.  mashed  potato.  If  the  larger  amount  is  used 
leave  out  Yz  c.  liquid,  and  make  the  dough  a  little  stiffer  than  for  the 
plain  bread. 

Squash  Bread 
Follow  recipe  for  wheat  bread  using  i^  c.  liquid  and  Yi  c.  squash. 


42  war-time  cookery 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 

2  c.  liquid.  Ya  to  I  yeast  cake. 

2  to  4  T.  molasses.  3  c.  flour.  (  ? ). 

2  t.  salt.  3  c.  whole  wheat.  ( ?). 
I  to  2  T.  fat. 

When  fl^ours  are  used  in  combination  always  make  the  sponge  with 
the  white  flour. 

Rye  Bread  . 

Substitute  rye  flour  for  whole  wheat  in  the  above  recipe.  Half 
rye  flour  may  be  used  although  a  lighter  and  more  satisfactory  loaf 
results  when  one-third  rye  is  used. 

Crumb  Bread 

Same  ingredients  as  for  whole  wheat  bread,  using  t  c.  dried 
ground  crumbs  and  4^  to  5  c.  flour.  Soak  crumbs  in  hot  liquid  for 
15  min.  and  proceed  according  to  rule. 

Barley  Bread 

54  c.  pearl  barley  or  2  t.  salt. 

1  c.  after  cooking.  1  to  2  T.  fat. 

2  c.  liquid.  74  to  i  yeast  cake. 
2  T.   sweetening.  4  to  5  c.  flour. 

Oatmeal  Bread 

Same  ingredients  as  for  whole  wheat  bread,  using  i  c.  rolled  oats,, 
and  about  4  c.  flour.  Soak  the  oatmeal  in  hot  liquid  for  15  min.  Or, 
use  2  c.  hot  oatmeal  mush  and  no  other  liquid. 

Corn  Meal  Bread 

Yz  to   I   c.  cornmeal.  2  t.  salt. 

2  c.  liquid.  Y\  to  i  yeast  cake. 

2  T.  sweetening.  3  to  4  c.  flour. 
I  to  2  T.  fat. 

I  c.  meal  makes  a  very  moist  loaf  of  bread  and  many  prefer  the 
smaller  amount.  Cook  the  meal  in  the  liquid  in  a  double  boiler.  After 
15  min.  add  sweetening,  fat,  and  salt.  When  the  mixture  is  lukewarm 
add  the  yeast  and  flour.  Make  a  stiff  dough  and  put  directly  into 
greased  bread  pans  with  high  sides.  When  the  dough  is  light  bake. 
The  bread  may  be  allowed  to  rise  once,  and  then  shape  into  loaves.  If 
salted  cornmeal  is  used  lessen  the  salt. 


WAR-TIMK    COOKERY  43 

STEAMED  PUDDINGS 

Steam  may  come  in  direct  contact  with  food  as  when  cooking 
fowl,  rice,  etc.,  and  prevents  browning  and  loss  of  moisture.  It  may 
be  used  merely  to  heat  or  cook  mixtures.  (Materials  cooked  in  a  double 
boiler,  or  in  a  pan  set  into  another  of  boiling  water). 

Steam  prevents  burning  and  is  a  good  method  for  mixtures  in 
covered  molds  which  have  sufficient  moisture  in  themselves,  but  re- 
quire long  cooking.  Molds  may  be  put  into  a  steamer,  or  into  a  colan- 
der or  sieve  over  boiling  water,  or  on  a  rack  or  several  folds  of  paper 
in  the  water.  Molds  must  be  well  greased  and,  if  they  have  no  covers, 
grease  a  piece  of  heavy  paper  on  l)oth  sides  and  tie  securely  over  the 
top. 

Crumt!  Pudding  No.  I 

2  c.  dried  crumbs.  ^  t.  salt. 

I  c.  molasses.  i  t.  cinnamon. 

I  c.  water.  y^  t.  cloves. 

I  ^gg.  J4  t.  nutmeg. 

1  c.  flour.  I  c.  raisins. 
^  t.  soda. 

Sift  the  soda,  salt,  and  spices  with  the  flour.  Combine  all  ingred- 
ients, making  a  soft  drop  batter.  This  will  make  enough  pudding  to 
nearly  fill  three  pound  baking  powder  cans  after  steaming.  The  molds 
must  be  well  greased  and  not  more  than  two-thirds  full  of  batter  in 
the  beginning.     Steam  three  hours. 

Crumh  Pudding  No   TI 

2  c.  crumbs.  i^  t.  soda. 
I  c.  mollasses.                                          J4  t.  salt. 

1  c.  sour  milk.  .A.ny  spice  desired. 

2  t.  fat.  I  c.  raisins,  currants,  or  peanuts 
T  c.  flour  (rye  or  graham) 

Combine  materials  to  make  rather  a  stifi:'  drop  batter.  Steam  three 
hours. 

Spice;  Pudding  No.  I 

^  c.  oil.  I  t.  soda. 

I  c.  molasses.  2  c.  bread  flour  (art  rye,  or 

y^  c.  liquid.  graham  may  be  used). 
Any  spices  desired. 

This  makes  a  thick  pour  batter.  Steam  three  hours.  This  makes 
twelve  large  portions. 


44  WAR-TIME   COOKERY 

Spicd  Pudding  No.  II 

I  egg.  Yi  t.  nutmeg. 

I  c.  molasses.  i  t.  soda. 

1/2  c.  water.  i  c.  flour. 
j4  t.  salt. 

Combine  materials  and  steam  in  the  same  manner  as  other  pud- 
dings.   This  mixture  makes  a  very  thick  pour  batter. 

Graham  Pudding 

14  c.  fat.  y2  t.  soda. 

}4  c.  molasses.  i  t.  salt. 

I  egg.  i^  c.  graham  flour. 

j/2  c.  milk.  I  c.  chopped  raisins,  dates,  or  figs. 

Suet  Pudding 

2%  c.  flour   (any  combination).  ^4  c  suet,  or  ^  c.  fat. 

I  t  soda.  I  c.  molasses. 

I   t.  salt.  I  c.  milk  and  water. 

jA  t.  cinnamon.  j4  c.  raisins. 

%  t.  cloves.  }^  c.  currants. 

^  t.  nutmeg. 

Remove  skin  from  suet  and  chop  fine.  (If  a  little  of  the  flour  is 
chopped  with  suet  the  latter  will  not  stick  together  so  much.)  Work 
fat  into  the  sifted  dry  ingredients,  add  the  liquids  and  lastly  the  floured 
fruit.  (Use  some  of  the  flour  called  for  in  the  recipe.)  This  mixture 
makes  a  soft  drop  batter.  Steam  3  hours,  or  i}^  hours  for  individual 
molds.  If  water  and  liquid  fat  or  oil  are  used,  increase  the  flour  to  3  c. 
Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book.h  F.  M.  Partner. 

Chocolate  Pudding 

3  T.  fat.  2%  c.  flour  (any  combination) 

2/3  c.  sugar,  or  3  t.  baking  powder. 

half  sugar  and  half  corn  syrup.  ^  t.  salt. 

I  egg.  i^  squares  or  ounces  of  chocolate. 

I  c.  milk. 

Soften  or  melt  fat ;  work  in  the  sugar,  add  the  beaten  egg  and 
beat  hard  until  creamy.  Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water  and  add 
next.  Add  alternately  the  sifted  dry  ingredients  and  liquid.  Steam  2 
hours. 

Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book. 


war-time  cookery  45 

Berry  Pudding 

y2  c.  butter  substitute.  4  t.  baking  powder. 

1  c.  sugar,  or  3J/^   c.  flour. 

Yi.   c.   honey  or  other  sweetening.    2  c.  cranberries,  huckleberries,  etc. 

2  eggs.  I  t.  salt. 
Yz  c.  milk. 

Cream  the  fat  and  combine  ingredients  in  the  same  manner  as  in 
the  chocolate  pudding.  Add  the  berries  last.  This  mixture  may  ap- 
pear a  trifle  stiff,  but  the  fruit  will  add  liquid  during  the  cooking  of  the 
pudding.     Steam  3  hours. 

Fruit  Snow  Baels 

1  qt.  cooked  rice.  Canned  fruit. 

Butter  6  cups  and  in  each  one  put  a  layer  of  rice  ^  inch  thick.  Fill 
the  centers  with  peaches,  apricots,  cherries,  apples,  etc.  Cover  with 
rice,  and  steam  20  to  30  min.  Unm.old  and  serve  with  a  liquid  sauce 
made  with  the  fruit  juice. 

OTHER  DESSERTS 

Bread  Pudding 

2  c.  packed  stale  crumbs.  2  to  3  eggs. 
4  c.  hot  milk.  Yz  t.  salt. 

Yz  c.  sweetening.  i^    t.   vanilla,  or  other  flavoring. 

Soak  crumbs  in  hot  milk  15  min.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sweeten- 
ing and  flavoring,  and  mix  with  the  crumbs.  Pour  into  buttered  pud- 
ding dish  and  cook  in  a  pan  of  warm  water.  Do  not  let  the  water  boil. 
Small  puddings  bake  in  25  min. ;  large  ones  will  take  nearly  an  hour. 
After  the  pudding  has  thickened  around  the  edges  take  a  spoon  and 
very  gently  push  the  thickened  part  towards  the  center.  This  serves 
sixteen. 

Variations 

With  the  vanilla  flavoring  use  Y^  c.  each  of  raisins  and  chopped 
peanuts. 

Use  Y2  c.  chopped  cooked  orange  peel. 

Use  Ya  c.  more  sweetening  and  2  oz.  chocolate  melted  over  water. 

Use  I  t.  cinnamon,  Yz  t.  cloves,  Y\  t.  nutmeg. 

Use  4  eggs.     Incorporate  two  eggs  and  two  yolks  in  the  pudding. 

Make  a  meringue  of  two  whites  beaten  stiff  and  Ya  c-  sugar.  Brown 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

In  a  pudding  dish  place  alternate  layers  of  strained  apple  sauce 
and  slices  of  bread  spread  with  butter  substitute.     Use  bread  for  the 


46  WAR-TIME    COOKERY 

top  layer.  The  sauce  should  be  quite  sweet,  and  seasoned  with  vanilla, 
lemon,  or  spice.  Toasted  bread  gives  a  pleasing  flavor,  but  requires 
more  liquid  than  the  other.  Bake  30  to  40  min.  in  a  moderate  oven,  or 
until  the  bread  has  become  thoroughly  saturated  with  the  sauce  and 
puffed  up.  Crushed  cooked  prunes  with  the  juice  may  be  used  in  the 
same  manner. 

Apple  Cobbler 

Wipe,  pare,  quarter  and  core  6  apples.  Make  a  syrup  of  i  c.  water, 
1/3  c.  white  or  brown  sugar,  and  2/3  c.  corn  syrup.  Add  enough  apples 
to  cover  bottom  of  the  saucepan,  placing  core  side  down  as  this  is  the 
hardest  part.  Cook  until  soft  but  the  pieces  still  retain  original  shape. 
Remove  apples  and  cook  the  remaining  pieces.  Reduce  syrup  and  pour 
over  the  apples  in  a  baking  dish.  Spice  may  be  added  if  desired.  Cover 
with  a  biscuit  crust  and  bake  20  to  30  min.  Dried  apples,  pears,  peaches 
or  prunes  may  be  used  after  soaking  and  cooking.  If  dried  fruit  is 
substituted  add  a  little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  to  bring  out  the  flavor. 
This  serves  six  to  eight  persons. 

Fruit  Dumplings 

Heat  canned  or  cooked  fruit  in  an  agate  saucepan  and  be  sure 
there  is  sufficient  liquid  to  prevent  burning,  even  if  water  must  be  add- 
ed. Prepare  small  dumplings  and  cook  according  to  directions.  Re- 
move dumplings  and  sweeten  the  fruit  if  necessary. 

Indian  Pudding 

5  c.  hot  milk.  i  t.  ?p.1t. 

1/3  c.  soft  or  Southern  cornmeal.        i  t.  ginger  or  cinnamon. 

1/3  c.  molasses. 

Scald  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  very  slowly  sprinkle  in  the  meal. 
Cook  20  min.,  then  add  remaining  ingredients.  Bake  2  hours  in  a  slow 
oven,  or  in  a  fijeless  cooker.  The  whey  will  separate  when  the  pudding 
is  served.  This  is  very  good  without  any  sauce,  although  cream  makes 
a  delicious  accompaniment.     This  makes  twelve  portions. 

Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book. 

Cornstarch  Pudding 

I  qt.  milk.  1.4  c.  sugar. 

y?.    c.    cornstarch    (scant).  Pinch  of  salt. 

yo  c.  corn  syrup.  Cooked  orange  peel. 

Mix  the  starch  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  heat  the  remainder  in 
a  pan  over  water.  Add  the  sweetening  to  the  milk,  then  the  thicken- 
ing; stir  constantly.  Cook  over  water  20  min.,  then  put  in  the  finely 
cut  peel  of  two  oranges  and  the  salt.  Pour  into  12  cups;  cool.  Unmold 
and  serve  with  orange  sauce. 


war-time  cookery  47 

Variations 

Use  the  juice  from  cooked  prunes,  apricots,  or  other  fruits  in  place 
of  the  milk.  Use  ^  c.  starch  as  the  acid  of  the  fruit  and  the  heat  tends 
to  lessen  the  thickening  property.  When  no  milk  is  used  the  mixture 
may  be  cooked  directly  over  the  fire  for  5  min.  stirring  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Add  the  cut  up  fruit,  and  mold  the  pudding.  Or,  the  fruit  may  be 
added  to  the  pudding  made  wdth  milk  and  the  fruit  juice  sweetened 
and  thickened  for  a  sauce. 

The  whites  of  two  eggs  may  be  beaten  stiff  and  folded  into  the 
pudding  after  removing  from  the  fire.  Serve  with  custard  sauce  made 
with  the  yolks  of  eggs.     (See  sauces). 

i^  oz.  chocolate  or  %  c.  cocoa  may  be  cooked  with  the  pudding. 
In  this  case  a  little  more  sweetening  will  be  required.  Use  i^  t.  vanilla 
with  this  combination. 

3/2  c.  chopped  nuts,  dried  cocoanut,  or  raisins  may  be  added  to 
the  dessert. 

Serve  plain  cornstarch  pudding  with  chocolate  or  raisin  sauce. 

Tapioca  Desserts 

There  are  innumerable  desserts  made  of  tapioca  wliich  are  most 
palatable  and  attractive.  These  may  be  found  in  any  cook  book,  or  a 
booklet  of  recipes  obtained  from  any  firm  which  markets  the  various 
forms  of  this  material. 

PUDDING  SAUCES 

Lemon  Sauce 

34  c.  corn  syrup.  1^-4  T.  cornstarch. 

^  c.  sugar.  Grated  rind  of  ]/>  lemon. 

I  c.  water.  2  T.  lemon  juice. 

Mix  the  first  three  ingredients,  leaving  out  just  enough  water  to 
blend  with  the  starch.  When  the  first  mixture  is  boiling  add  the  starch 
and  boil  the  sauce  5  min.  Add  the  lemon  and  serve  at  once.  One  half 
of  a  cooked  orange  peel  may  be  cut  fine  and  added  to  the  sauce. 

Orange  Sauce 

Prepare  in  the  same"  manner  as  "Lem.on  Sauce,"  using  ]/>  c.  each 
of  water  and  orange  juice,  and  i  T.  lemon  juice. 

Raisin  Sauce 

yi  c.  raiiins.  Pinch  salt. 

-2}^  c.  water.  Pinch  of  cinnamon, 

i^  T.  cornstarch.  i  T.  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 

Wash  raisins  and  soak  15  min.  in  the  Vv'ater.  then  cook  until  plump. 
A  little  of  tlie  water  must  be  saved  out  to  blend  with  the  cornstarch. 


48  WAR-TIME    COOKERY 

There  should  be  i  pt.  after  cooking.  Add  the  salt,  cinnamon,  and 
thickening.  Boil  5  min. ;  add  the  acid  and  serve.  By  using  3  T.  corn- 
starch this  mixture  may  be  molded  in  cups  and  served  as  a  dessert. 

Chocolate  Sauce 

1%  c.  boiling  v^ater.  2  T.  flour  or  i  T.  cornstarch. 

34  c.  corn  syrup.  y^  oz.  chocolate. 

J'4  c.  sugar.  y^  t.  vanilla. 

Cook  water  and  chocolate  until  thick,  smooth,  and  glossy.  Finislr 
cooking  according  to  the  directions  given  above.  Or,  thoroughly  mix; 
the  sugar  and  cornstarch,  pour  the  hot  chocolate  over  these  and  boil  5: 
min.  longer.  Add  corn  syrup  and  vanilla  and  serve.  If  these  sauces 
are  cooked  in  too  shallow  a  pan  the  evaporation  will  be  much  greater 
than  in  a  deep  pan.     If  too  thick,  add  more  liquid. 

Brown  Sugar  Sauce 

1  c.  boiling  water.  i   T.  butter  substitute. 
^4  c.  brown  sugar.                               i  T.  acid. 

2  T.  flour,  or  I  T.  cornstarch.  Grated  nutmeg  if  desired. 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  boiling  water  slowly,  and  cook  5  min_ 
imtil  clear.    Then  add  the  remainder  of  the  materials. 

Marsh  MALLOW  Sauce 

>2  lb.  marshmallows.  ^  c.  water. 

Place  in  a  double  boiler  until  candy  has  softened.  Beat  the  mass 
imtil  creamy ;  add  5^  t.  vanilla  and  serve. 

Custard  Sauce 

2  T.  flour  or  i  T.  cornstarch.  %  c.  sweetening. 

1  pt.  milk.  Pinch  of  salt. 

2  yolks  of  eggs.  i  t.  vanilla. 

Mix  flour  with  a  little  of  the  milk  and  heat  the  remainder.  Add 
the  paste  to  the  hot  milk  and  cook  over  water  15  min. ;  stir  occasionally. 
Mix  yolks,  sugar,  and  salt  and  over  these  pour  the  hot  liquid,  stirring- 
all  the  time.  Return  to  the  double  boiler  and  stir  constantly  until  the 
mixture  coats  the  spoon.     Cool  the  custard  and  add  vanilla. 

PASTRY 

Pies  should  be  looked  upon  as  a  luxury  under  the  present  condi- 
tions, and  when  served  should  be  of  the  one  crust  variety,  in  so  far  as 


WAR-TIME   COOKERY  49 

possible,  all  materials  should  conserve  such  foods  as  wheat,  sugar  and 
lard. 

Following  are  a  few  helpful  suggestions : 

Delicious  Pie  Crust 

I  c.  pastry  flour.  34  t.  salt. 

1  c.  rye  flour.  About  Yz  c.  cold  water. 
Yz  to  2/3  c.  hard  vegetable  fat  or 

Scant  Yz  c.  chilled  vegetable  oil. 

Mix  the  flour  and  salt ;  add  the  fat,  chopping  or  cutting  it  in.  Add 
the  cold  water  gradually,  trying  not  to  wet  the  same  portion  twice. 
Keep  cutting  the  paste  with  a  knife  until  the  mixture  forms  a  ball  of 
dough.  The  amount  of  water  will  depend  upon  the  quantity  of  fat 
used  and  the  composition  of  the  flour.  The  paste  should  not  be  crumb- 
ly, nor  should  it  be  sticky  and  cling  to  the  sides  of  the  dish.  Turn  the 
paste  out  on  a  well  floured  board,  and  work  a  minute  until  the  mixture 
holds  together.  Roll  out  into  shape,  keeping  the  paste  as  circular  as 
possible.  With  care  and  experience  there  need  be  few  trimmings. 
Worked  over  pastry  is  never  so  satisfactory.  Line  a  pie  plate  with 
pastry  and  sprinkle  a  little  flour  in  the  bottom  if  the  filling  is  thin;  this 
helps  to  prevent  soaking.  If  the  crust  is  to  be  baked  first  place  it  on 
the  inverted  pie  plate,  prick  with  a  fork,  and  bake.  The  crust  will  puflf 
up  a  little  when  it  begins  to  cook  and  will  require  a  second  pricking  to 
keep  the  bottom  flat.    These  proportions  will  make  3  pastry  shells. 

Cranberry  and  Raisin  Pie 

2  c.  cranberries.  ^  c.  cornstarch. 

1  c.  water.  ^  to  i  c.  raisins. 

^  c.  corn  syrup  and  ^4  c.  sugar.       i  t.  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 

Cook  berries  and  water  in  a  covered  sauce  pan  until  fruit  is  soft. 
Add  sweetening;  then  the  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  very  little  cold 
water.  Stir  constantly  until  the  mixture  boils ;  add  raisins  and  cook  in 
a  double  boiler  20  min.  Add  acid  now,  for  if  acid  is  cooked  with  starch 
it  will  thin  the  mixture.  Cool  covered,  or  stir  occasionally  while  cool- 
ing to  prevent  a  crust  from  forming.  Pour  into  crust  before  the  mix- 
ture stiffens,  so  that  the  surface  will  be  smooth.  Strips  of  cookei  psste 
or  bow  knots  may  be  placed  on  top  the  pie. 

Lemon  Fieeing 

2  c.  water.  Pinch  of  salt. 

I  c.  sugar  or  Juice  and  grated  rind  of 

Yi  c.  sugar  and  Y^.  c  corn  syrup       i  large  lemon  or  orange 
5  T.  cornstarch.  i  ^gg,  separated. 

Cook  water,  sweetening,  starch,  and  salt  in  same  manner  as  cran- 
berry filling.  After  20  min.  pour  a  little  of  the  hot  filling  into  the  stir- 


50  WAR-TIME   COOKERY 

red  egg  yolk.  Add  this  to  the  rest  of  the  mixture,  and  beat  in  quickly 
and  thoroughly.  Cool,  pour  filling  into  crust,  cover  with  meringue  or 
drop  it  on  by  spoonfuls.  Brown  in  a  moderate  oven,  as  too  great  heat 
will  toughen  the  egg. 

Meringue 

To  the  egg  white  add  i  t.  cold  water  and  beat  vigorously  until  stiff. 
Add  2  T.  sugar  a  little  at  a  time,  and  beat  until  meringue  is  stiff  and 
glossy. 

Squash,  Pumpkin  or  Sweet  Potato  Filling 

i^  c.  dry  sifted  vegetable.  >^  t.  ginger. 

}i  c.  corn  syrup.  ^  t.  salt. 

^  c.  sugar.  2  c.  hot  milk. 

^  t.  nutmeg.  4  T.  cornstarch. 

Mix  ingredients  and  prepare  in  same  manner  as  the  lemon  filling. 
Fill  crust  before  mixture  stiffens.  All  cornstarch  mixtures  should  be 
thoroughly  cooked,  stiff  enough  not  to  run,  and  yet  not  pasty.  If  it  is 
a  little  too  stiff,  add  a  spoonful  of  milk  or  water. 

The  cornstarch  may  be  omitted  and  two  eggs  used  for  thickening. 
Mix  with  the  other  materials  and  pour  in  a  tin  lined  with  uncooked 
paste.  Place  pie  on  the  bottom  of  a  coal  range  or  lower  grate  of  gas 
range  for  ten  minutes.  This  cooks  the  bottom  crust  a  little  and  helps 
to  prevent  soaking.  Now  place  pie  in  center  of  oven  and  decrease  heat 
to  prevent  overcooking  the  custard.     Bake. 

If  sweet  potato  is  used  add  only  ^2  c.  sweetening.  The  top  may  be 
covered  lightly  with  dessicated  cocoanut.  This  fills  2  small  pastry 
shells. 

Prune  Filling  / 

Wash  I  lb.  prunes  and  soak  overnight.  Cook  in  the  same  water 
until  fruit  is  plump  and  tender,  then  stone.  Strain  off  the  liquid ;  add 
I  t.  lemon  juice  and  cook  until  thick  and  the  quantity  is  just  sufficient 
to  coat  the  prunes.  Pour  syrup  over  fruit,  put  into  baked  pastry  shell, 
and  serve.  Whipped  cream  piled  on  top  the  pie  makes  a  pleasing  com- 
bination but  is  not  necessary. 

Prune  Filling  // 

y2  lb.  prunes.  1/3  c.  cornstarch  mixed  with 

I  c.  sweetening.  ^2  c.  cold  water. 

Piece  stick  cinnamon.  I  T.  lemon  juice. 
Boiling  water. 

Wash  and  soak  prunes.  Simmer  until  soft;  remove  stones  and  cut 
fruit  into  halves.  Measure  liquid  and  add  enough  boiling  water  to  make 


WAR-TIME   COOKERY  5" J 

2J/2  c.  Prepare  water,  sweetening,  cinnamon,  and  cornstarch  in  same 
manner  as  lemon  filling.  At  the  end  of  20  min.  remove  cinnamon,  add 
lemon  juice  and  prunes.  When  it  is  thickened  but  not  stiff,  put  filling 
into  cooked  crust  and  place  in  icebox  or  a  cool  place  until  set. 

Deep  Dish  Apple  PiE 

5  sour  apples.  %  t.  nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 

1/3  c.  sugar  or  molasses.  Pinch  of  salt. 

2/3  c.  corn  syrup.  i  T.  butter  substitute. 

Wash,  pare,  core,  and  slice  apples.  Combine  first  five  ingredients 
and  put  into  a  deep  earthern  or  granite  dish.  Put  pieces  of  butter  on 
top.  Moisten  edge  of  dish  with  cold  water,  put  over  the  pastry  and 
press  edge  of  pastry  against  rim  of  dish.  The  crust  should  be  per- 
forated to  let  out  the  steam.  Bake  pie  in  a  quick  oven  at  first  then 
lower  the  heat.    Cook  30  to  40  min.,  or  until  apples  are  tender. 

Dried  apples  or  other  fruit  may  be  used  after  soaking  overnight. 
Sweetening  and  spice  may  be  varied  according  to  the  fruit  and  individ- 
ual taste. 


SALADS 

Salads  may  consist  of  cold  cooked  meats,  fish,  etc. ;  vegetables 
cooked  or  raw,  fruits,  nuts,  or  a  combination  of  these  materials.  The 
distinctive  feature  of  a  salad  is  a  dressing  of  fat,  acid,  and  seasonings. 

Points  to  be  Remembered  in  Making  Salads 

Salad  plants  should  be  clean,  crisp,  cold,  and  dry;  cut  material 
should  be  in  uniform  pieces.  Meat,  fish,  potatoes,  or  any  material  that 
will  absorb  dressing,  should  be  mixed  with  a  French  dressing,  chilled, 
and  drained  from  superfluous  dressing  just  before  serving. 

The  ingredients  composing  the  salad  should  not  be  combined  until 
the  last  moment  as  the  lettuce  will  become  wilted. 

Garnish  attractively,  with  regard  to  proper  combinations  of  colors 
and  flavors.     Too  much  decoration  is  worse  than  none  at  all. 

The  materials  on  hand  at  the  moment,  and  the  ingenuity  of  the 
maker,  must  be  depended  upon  for  variety. 

Scissors  find  many  uses  in  the  kitchen,  but  are  especially  valuable 
for  cutting  chicken  without  tearing  into  bits;  for  shredding  peppers, 
tomatoes,  etc. 


52  WAR-TIME    COOKERY 

SALAD  DRESSINGS 

French  Dressings 

)<  t.  salt.  2  T.  vinegar,  or  lemon  juice. 

14  t.  pepper.  6  T.  oil. 

Put  the  materials  into  a  bottle  or  fruit  jar;  cork  tightly,  and  shake 
hard  until  the  ingredients  are  well  blended.  The  colder  the  material 
the  more  quickly  the  emulsion  will  form. 

Cooked  Dressing 

I  c.  milk.  2  T.  butter  substitute. 

•}/;  t.  mustard.  i  egg. 

Pepper  to  taste.  M  c.  vinegar. 
I  T.  sugar. 

Take  a  little  of  the  cold  milk  and  make  a  smooth  paste  that  will 
pour.  Heat  the  remainder  of  milk,  add  the  thickening,  and  cook  over 
water  15  min.     Mix  the  dry  materials  with  the  slightly  beaten  egg. 

Pour  hot  liquid  over  the  egg,  return  to  the  double  boiler,  stir  and 
cook  until  a  custard  is  formed.  Add  butter ;  cool  custard  and  add  vine- 
gar.    If  dressing  curdles,  beat  it  until  smooth. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing 

1  c.  thick  sour  cream.  J  :^  t.  salt. 

2  T.  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Pepper. 

Mix  ingredients  thoroughly  and  dress  salad. 

Bacon  Dressing 

5  T.  bacon  fat.  V->.  c.  water. 

2  T.  flour.  T  egg  yolk. 

Paprika.  Salt  if  needed. 

5  T.  vinegar 

Make  a  sauce  of  first  five  mgredients  and  pour  into  yolk,  stirring 
constantly.  Cool  and  add  to  salad.  This  is  especially  good  with  dand- 
elions, endive,  beet  greens,  etc. 

Mock  Mayonnaise  Dressing 

6  T.  flour.  T  c.  boiling  water. 
I  t.  salt,  or  more.                                  }i  c.  acid. 

y2  t.  mustard.  2  yolks  of  eggs. 

Pepper.  i  c.  oil  (chilled). 

4  T.  oil. 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  nour,  seasonings  and  4  T.  of  oil  and  water. 


WAR-TIME   COOKERY  53 

Boil  gently  3  min.,  and  pour  into  the  well  mixed  eggs.  Stir  occasion- 
ally as  dressing  cools  to  prevent  a  crust  from  forming.  When  COLD, 
add  acid,  mix  well;  add  the  cupful  of  oil  1/3  at  a  time  and  after  each 
addition  beat  hard  with  a  Dover  egg  beater.  This  makes  a  very  thick 
mixture,  and  can  be  used  for  garnishing  as  it  does  not  soften  so  readily 
as  a  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

Cranberry  Jelly  Substitute 

I  qt.  cranberries.  1^4  c.  corn  syrup. 

I  c.  water.  4  T.  cornstarch. 

y2  c.  sugar. 

Pick  over  berries ;  wash ;  cover  with  i  c.  boiling  water,  and  cook 
in  a  covered  saucepan  until  the  fruit  is  soft.  Add  sweetening,  and 
when  dissolved,  thicken  liquid  with  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  very  little 
cold  water.  Cook  5  min.  directly  over  the  fire.  When  cold  this  mix- 
ture should  not  be  stiff,  nor  yet  soft  enough  to  run.  This  serves  sixteen 
persons. 

Preserved  Orange  Peel 

The  peels  may  be  kept  in  a  brine  for  several  days  (2  T  salt  to  i  pt. 
water).  When  a  sufficient  number  have  accumulated,  pour  off  the 
brine  and  let  the  fruit  skins  stand  in  fresh  water  for  15  min.;  re-heat. 
Simmer  30  min.,  or  until  tender;  drain.  For  every  6  orange  peels  al- 
low I  c.  corn  syrup  and  i  c.  boiling  water.  Cook  the  tender  peels  in 
this  syrup  until  thoroughly  saturated,  and  they  look  clear.  By  this 
time  the  liquid  should  have  evaporated  until  almost  a  candy.  Spread 
the  peels  out  on  a  tray,  or  on  platters,  and  pour  the  thick  syrup  over 
the  fruit.  Protect  from  the  dust  and  dry  in  a  warm  place.  (This  may 
take  about  2  days  unless  a  regulation  fruit  dryer  is  used.) 


54  WAR-TIME   COOKERY 

LISTS  OF  BULLETINS  FOR  HOUSEKEEPERS 


How  to  Select  Foods,  Part  i.    What  the  Body  Needs. 

817  How  to  Select  Foods,  Part  2.     Cereal  Foods. 

824  How  to  Select  Foods,  Part  3.     Foods  Rich  in  Protein. 

How  to  Select  Foods,  Part  4.     (Not  yet  numbered). 

469  Fats  and  their  Economical  Use  in  the  Home. 

295  Potatoes  and  Other  Root  Crops  as  Food. 

85  Fish  as  Food. 

298  Food  Value  of  Corn  and  Corn  Products, 

565  Cornmeal  and  Ways  of  Using  it. 

34  Meats:     Composition  and  Cooking. 

249  Cereal  Breakfast  Foods. 

391  Economical  Use  of  Meat  in  the  Home. 

363  The  Use  of  Milk  as  Food. 

535  Sugar  and  It's  Value  as  Food. 

712  School  Lunches. 

142  Principles  of  Nutrition  and  Nutritive  Value  of  Food. 

717  Food  for  Young  Children. 

653  Honey  and  Its  Uses  in  the  Home. 

413  The  Care  of  Milk  and  Its  Use  in  the  Home. 

183  Meat  on  the  Farm. 

807  Bread  and  Breadmaking  in  the  Home. 

162  Cooking  Meat. 

63  Care  of  Milk  on  the  Farm. 

852  Storage  of  Vegetables. 

871  Fresh  Fruits  and  Vegetables  as  Conservers  of  Other  Foods. 

881  Preservation  of  Foods  by  Fermentation  and  Salting. 

839  Home  Canning  by  the  One-period  Cold-pack  Method. 

900  Homemade  Fruit  Butters. 

841  Drying  Fruits  and  Vegetables  in  the  Home. 

861  Removal  of  Stains  from  Clothing  and  Other  Textiles. 

487  Cheese  and  Its  Economical  Use  in  the  Diet. 

255  Home  Vegetable  Garden. 

154  The  Home  Fruit  Garden.    Preparation  and  Care. 

The  above  bulletins  may  be  secured  by  writing  to  the  United 
States  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Ask  for  list  of  free  publications  on  Foods  and  Home  Economics 
subjects.  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture.  Washington,  D.  C. 

The  Superintendent  of  Documents,  Washington,  D.  C.  will  send 
lists  of  bulletins  costing  5  or  10  cents. 


WAR-TIME   COOKERY 
INDEX 


55 


Batters  and  Doughs 31-32 

Biscuits    36 

Breads,  Baking  Powder 37 

Bread,    brown    34 

Bread,  General  Rules 40-41 

Bread,   spoon    35 

Bread,    Steamed    15 

Bread.  Uses  For   14 

Bread,  Wheat,  Potato, 
Squash,  Whole  Wheat, 
Rye,  Crumb,  Barley,  Oat- 
meal,   Corn    Meal 41-42 

Bulletins,  List  of  for  House- 
keepers        54 

Cakes   and   Cookies 37 

Cake,  Apple    36 

Cake,   Apple     Sauce,     Spice, 

Cottage    Pudding,    Chocolate  38 
Cake,       Eggless,       Milkless, 

Wheatless    37 

Cake,   Spice    37 

Cakes,  Griddle   33 

Cakes,   Corn   Meal 34 

Casserole  dishes   19 

Cheese,  dishes  and  prepara- 
tion     25-29 

Chowder    12-13 

Codfish  Balls    23 

Cookies,   Oatmeal    40 

Cranberry    Jelly    Substitute...   53 

Crumbs,   Ho\v  to  Use 14 

Desserts     45-47 

Dumplings,  Baked  Apple 36 

Dumplings,   Steamed    37 

Eggs,  Poached,  Hard  Cooked 

Daisy     24 

Eggs,   tests  for  freshness 23 

Fats,  uses  and  tests  for 36 

Fish,   salt,   creamed 23 

Food    Conservation    3 


Filling,        Lemon,        Squash, 
Pumpkin  or  Sweet  Potato, 

Prune    49-50 

Fried   Cakes,     Indian     Meal, 

Potato     39 

Fritters     35 

Gingerbread    39 

Grouping     Foods     to     Show 

Their  Uses    6 

Legumes,  recipes  for  using,  29-31 

Measurements    8 

Meat  &  Potato  Mixtures,  20-21-22 

Meat   Cookery    17 

Meat    Extenders    18 

Meat  Pies   20 

Meat    Substitutes    22 

Meats,    general   directions 19 

Muffins    34 

Omelets,  white  sauce,  bread 

crumb   25 

Oven  Tests   8 

Pastry     48-51 

Popovers    33 

Preserved   Orange   Peel 53 

Puddings,  Steamed 43-45 

Rarebits     26 

Rolls    36 

Salad   Dressing    52 

Sauces    9 

Sauces,    Pudding    47-48 

Scalloped  dishes    15-16-17 

Shortcake    36 

Soups   Without   Meats 10 

Stews    17-lS 

The  Day's  Food    4 

Toast,    Milk.    Egg 15 

Waffles     33 

What  the  Day's  Food  Should 
Provide    ,,....     4 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  003  788  806  0  4 


