WEST  BEND 
COOK  BOOK 


Class    'T'}(^hj. 

BookJ&zJL 
Copyright]^" (f 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSITS 


....THE.... 

WEST  BEND 

Cook  Book 


COMPILED  FROM  RECIPES  CONTRIBUTED  BY   LADIES  OF 

WEST    BEND;    ORIGINALLY    PUBLISHED    FOR    THE 

BENEFIT  OF  ST.  JAMES'  SOCIETY, 

WEST  BEND. 


Good  Cooking  means  much  tasting  and  no  wasting; 
English  thoroughness,  French  art  and  Arabian 
hospitalit.y  ;  it  means,  in  fine,  that  women  are  to 
be  perf ectlj^  and  always  ladies— loaf  givers. 

—Buskin. 


Published  by  Hattie  E.  Crump, 
Lake  Mills,  Wis. 


s^ 


Copyright  1902,  1903, 1907,  1915,  by  Hattie  E.  Crump. 


Press  of  Gillett  &  Company,  /^  ^  X  O 

133-13R  Michigan  Street,  ^^  ^ *  f 

Milwaukee,  Wis.  ©CIA401254 


<t 


;!.A40: 

JUN-7i9l5 


PREFACE. 


RECIPES,  like  friends,  must  be  tested  before  their  worth 
is  proved,  and  since  "the  proof  of  the  pudding  is  the 
eating,"  the  compilers  of  this  little  volume  take  pleasure  in 
assuring  their  readers  that  the  toothsome  dishes  herein 
described  will  bear  that  test.  The  descendants  of  the  noble 
pioneer  women  of  our  state  are  worthy  successors  to  their 
mothers  and  grandmothers  in  the  art  of  domestic  cookery,  and 
it  is  to  their  generous  co-operation  that  we  are  indebted  for 
the  choice  recipes  contained  within  these  pages.  German, 
American  and  French  have  given  liberally  of  their  store  so 
that  our  West  Bend  Cook  Book  will  be  found  to  embrace  a 
great  variety.  We  do  not  claim  that  this  little  work  is  com- 
prehensive in  detail,  for  much  has  been  omitted  which  is  to 
be  found  in  the  ordinary  cook  book,  but  we  have  aimed  to 
gather  together  some  of  the  choicest  recipes  of  our  German- 
American  and  French-American  cousins  whose  untiring 
efforts  have  helped  in  such  great  degree  to  make  our  beautiful 
Wisconsin  the  prosperous  state  it  is  to-day.  With  this  explan- 
ation we  beg  that  our  readers  will  be 

"To  our  faults  a  little  blind. 
And  to  our  virtues  very  kind.'' 

— M.  B.  W. 


INTRODUCTION. 


IF  I  were  asked  the  greatest  need  of  the  American  house- 
wife of  to-day^  I  should  answer  without  hesitation,  "A 
wiser  and  more  complete  training  for  service  in  the  home." 
This  training  should  be  given  not  only  to  the  class  employed 
as  assistants,  but  to  the  mistress  herself. 

The  feeblest  judgment  admits  the  necessity  of  training 
for  every  profession,  for  every  trade,  for  every  department  of 
labor.  No  one  pretends  to  question  it;  time  and  money  are 
given  and  given  freely  to  secure  it.  But  in  one  department, 
and  that  the  most  elemental  and  important  in  its  need,  we 
seem  to  take  it  for  granted  that  little  or  no  preparation  is 
required.  The  result  is,  the  young  married  woman  too  often 
steps  into  her  home  to  preside  over  its  destinies  ignorant  of 
almost  everything  that  can  build  its  foundation  deep  and 
secure.  She  may  know  every  other  form  of  mathematics  save 
that  which  will  enable  her  to  use  wisely  her  husband's  income. 
It  is  unnecessary  to  touch  upon  more  than  one  point  of 
this  important  subject.  I  therefore  select  the  room  in  the 
home  on  which  beyond  all  others  its  comfort  and  well-being 
must  depend — the  kitchen.  Here  the  food  is  to  be  prepared 
and  on  the  right  preparation  depend  the  health  and  the  pros- 
perity of  the  family.  I  say  health,  because  every  particle  of 
improperly  prepared  food  is  more  or  less  indigestible  and 
must  sooner  or  later  make  its  grim  and  relentless  demand 


upon  the  system.  I  say  prosperity,  because  the  most  generous 
incorae  may  be  squandered  in  waste ;  for  alas !  it  may  be  said 
in  passing,  no  department  knows  more  of  cruel  waste  than 
the  American  kitchen  of  the  present  hour. 

While  America  has  the  finest  food  products  in  the  world, 
these  products  are  unquestionably  the  most  abused  in  prepara- 
tion. This  is  one  of  the  reasons  why  two  hundred  millions 
of  dollars  find  their  way  annually  to  the  pockets  of  merchants 
and  hotel  keepers  in  foreign  cities.  The  traveler  must  be  dull 
indeed  if  he  does  not  bring  from  his  experience  a  desire  to 
improve  these  conditions  in  his  own  land. 

The  first  step  toward  this  should  be  the  establishment  of 
a  department  of  cooking  in  every  young  woman's  school  in 
this  country.  This  essential  art,  with  its  essential  text-book, 
should  be  mastered  by  every  woman.  We  should  surround 
such  instruction  with  every  appliance  and  every  well-appointed 
equipment  that  science  can  bestow.  When  this  is  done  we 
shall  find  that  no  investment  is  more  secure  in  its  reward. 

On  such  investment  depends  the  prevalence  of  successful 
and  well  ordered  homes,  and  on  the  successful  and  well 
ordered  home  depend  not  only  the  well-being,  but  the  higher 
life  of  a  people;  the  truest  spiritual  uplift  will  come  only 
when  the  people  know  that 

"Not  soul  helps  body 
More  than  body  helps  soul." 

— ^Mary  M.  Adams. 

Madison,  Wisconsin. 


Bread. 


"Here  is  bread,  which  strengthens  man's  heart  and  therefore 
called  the  staflf  of  life." 

WHEAT  BREAD. 

About  nine  o'clock  in  the  morning  put  a  cake  of  Yeast- 
Poam  to  soak  in  warm  water,  enough  to  cover  it ;  when  it  has 
dissolved  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter.  At  noon,  pour 
boiling  potato  water  over  a  cup  of  flour,  stir  well,  add  two 
mashed  potatoes  and  when  cool  stir  in  the  yeast.  The  sponge 
may  be  set  early  in  the  morning  or  in  the  evening.  For  four 
loaves  of  bread  take  one  quart  of  warm  water  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop  from  the  spoon;  add 
the  sponge.  When  light,  put  in  one  tablespoon  of  sugar, 
one  of  salt,  one  large  spoonful  of  lard,  melted,  and  add  flour 
enough  to  make  a  dough.  Knead  smooth,  set  to  rise,  and 
when  light  put  into  pans.  When  light  enough  to  bake  the 
dough  will  not  retain  the  pressure  of  the  finger.  Bake  one 
hour.  Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


WHEAT  BKEAD. 

Save  the  water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled  at  noon 
and  pour  boiling  hot  over  three  or  four  medium  sized  potatoes 
which  have  been  boiled  and  put  through  a  ricer.  Add  flour 
to  make  a  medium  batter.  When  this  sponge  is  lukewarm 
stir  into  it  one-half  cake  Yeast  Foam,  which  has  been  dis- 
solved in  half  a  cup  of  warm  water  and  let  stand  until  the 
next  morning.  Do  not  keep  in  too  warm  a  place  or  it  will 
become  too  light  and  perhaps  sour.  In  the  morning  take 
about  two  quarts  of  flour,  heaping  tablespoon  of  lard,  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  heaping  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  pint  of  boiling 
milk  poured  over  the  flour.  Let  stand  until  cool  and  then 
break  in  an  egg;  mix  with  the  spoon,  then  knead  stiff,  let 
rise  and  knead  again.  Let  rise  the  second  time,  knead  and 
put  into  pans  which  it  half  fills.  When  light  enough  to  reach 
the  top  of  the  pans  bake  nearly  an  hour.  The  above  amount 
makes  three  good-sized  loaves. 

—Mrs.  W.  E.  Wolfrum. 

BKEAD. 

At  night  dissolve  one  cake  Yeast  Foam  in  one-half  cup 
warm  water.  Mash  fine  three  boiled  potatoes  and  pour  over 
them  one  pint  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled;  while 
hot  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  batter.  When 


BREAD 


lukewarm  add  the  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  three  pints  warm  water,  two 
teaspoons  salt  and  as  much  sifted  flour  as  can  be  beaten  in 
with  a  spoon.  Let  rise  and  when  light  add  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  each  of  lard  and  sugar.  Knead  stiff  and  let  rise 
again,  then  mould  into  five  loaves,  let  rise,  and  bake  forty- 
five  minutes  in  moderate  o^en.  Milk  may  be  used  instead  of 
water,  but  should  first  be  scalded  and  added  when  lukewarm. 

— Mrs.  David  Fletcher. 


FRENCH  BREAD. 

Wash  three  medium-sized  potatoes,  steam  without  re- 
moving the  skins,  mash  thoroughly  (skins  and  all)  with 
half  pint  of  flour;  then  add  half  pint  of  lukewarm  water, 
and  half  ounce  of  salt.  When  well  mixed  let  stand  in  a 
place  where  the  temperature  is  about  78  degrees  Fahrenheit 
for  one  hour;  then  add  half  pint  of  good  yeast  and  let  stand 
in  warm  place  for  about  nine  hours.  It  may  require  a  little 
more  or  less  than  nine  hours,  but  the  time  may  be  known  in 
this  way — the  compound  will,  after  awhile,  gradually  and 
slowly  foam  for  some  time  and  then  begin  to  fall.  As  soon 
as  it  begins  to  fall,  mix  about  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water  with 
it  and  strain  through  a  sieve;  mix  what  is  strained  with  two 
pounds  of  flour  and  sufficient  tepid  water  to  make  an  ordi- 


10  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

nary  dough.  Knead  thoroughly^  let  stand  in  a  warm  place 
until  it  cracks  on  the  top,  which  will  probably  be  about  an 
hour;  then  put  six  pounds  of  flour  in  the  bread  pan  and 
make  a  hole  in  the  center,  place  in  this  some  warm  water  and 
the  cracked  dough  with  two  even  tablespoons  of  salt.  Knead 
well  with  water  enough  to  make  an  ordinary  dough.  The 
more  the  dough  is  kneaded,  the  lighter  the  bread ;  then  shape 
the  loaves,  let  rise,  and  bake  for  about  an  hour  in  a  quick 
oven.  To  shape  loaves  of  French  bread,  divide  the  dough  as 
soon  as  kneaded  into  as  many  parts  as  loaves  required.  Knead 
each  part  so  as  to  form  a  ball,  then  by  rolling  and  pulling 
give  it  an  elongated,  sausagelike  shape.  When  the  dough  is 
thus  lengthened  take  a  small  rolling  pin  or  a  round  stick, 
place  it  on  top  of  the  dough  lengthwise,  press  on  it  and  roll 
a  little  to  and  fro,  so  as  to  make  a  furrow  in  the  middle. 
Have  a  cloth  well  dusted  with  flour,  and  place  the  loaves 
upon  it  with  the  furrowed  side  under ;  let  rise  as  for  ordinary 
bread,  and  place  in  baking  pans  with  furrows  on  upper  side. 
Dust  the  furrows  well  with  flour  to  prevent  them  from  clos- 
ing in  baking  and  rub  the  rest  of  the  loaf  with  a  cloth  dipped 
in  milk,  which  gives  the  shine  seen  on  French  bread.  The 
pans  used  for  baking  should  be  shallow  and  broad  enough  to 
hold  the  loaf  without  crowding  so  there  may  be  as  much  crust 
as  possible.  Half  of  the  above  recipe  will  make  four  medium- 
sized  loaves  of  bread.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


BREAD  11 


BREAD. 

Two  quarts  flour,  one  quart  lukewarm  water  or  milk,  one 
cake  yeast,  little  salt  and  sugar.  Work  all  together  one-half 
hour,  put  in  greased  dish,  let  rise  three  hours.  Mould  in  two 
loaves,  let  stand  one  and  one-half  hours.     Bake  one  hour. 

— Mrs.  C.  Muellenbach. 

HOP   YEAST. 

Put  a  handful  of  hops  in  a  bag,  boil  in  two  quarts  of 
water  with  three  good-sized  potatoes.  When  the  potatoes  are 
cooked,  mash  fine,  add  hop  water,  half  a  cup  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons salt  and  one  of  ginger.  When  cool  add  one  teacup 
good  yeast,  put  in  a  jar  and  keep  in  cool  place. 

POTATO   YEAST. 

Boil  twelve  medium-sized  potatoes  until  tender  and  then 
put  potatoes  and  water  through  a  sieve.  Mix  one  pint  flour 
smooth  with  water,  then  turn  into  one  quart  boiling  water 
and  cook  until  it  is  like  thin  gravy;  while  hot  add  three- 
fourths  cup  each  sugar  and  salt,  and  the  strained  potato 
water.  When  lukewarm  add  four  yeast  cakes  dissolved  in 
water.  Use  one  quart  of  this  yeast  to  make  four  loaves  of 
bread.  — Mrs.  G.  W.  Jones. 


12 


WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


POTATO   YEAST.     (Fine.) 

Cook  six  good-sized  potatoes,  mash  fine,  then  add  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled  and  one-half  cup  sugar; 
when  lukewarm  add  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  then  add 
two  cakes  of  dissolved  Yeast  Foam.  One  cup  of  this  yeast 
will  make  six  loaves  of  bread.    Will  keep  four  weeks. 

— Mrs.  Charles  Bear. 


BROWN   BREAD. 


i  cup  white  flour, 
J  cup  cornmeal, 
f  cup  graham  flour. 


1  cup  sonr  milk, 

J  cup  sweet  milk, 

J  cup  molasses, 

1  teaspoonful  soda, 

Put  in  two  one-pound  baking  powder  cans  and  steam 
three  and  a  half  hours,  then  bake  fifteen  minutes.  Very  nice 
with  pork  and  beans.  — Mrs.  P.  W.  Harns. 


BROWN   BREAD. 

2  cups  molasses,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  cup  cornmeal, 

1  dessert  spoon  soda,  1  cup  rye  meal, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  g^raham  meal. 

Sift  the  three  kinds  of  meal  together  several  times,  add 
other  ingredients,  beat  thoroughly,  pour  into  a  tin  form,  place 
in  kettle  of  hot  water  and  boil  four  hours;  then  remove  the 
lid  and  set  in  the  open  oven  to  dry  the  top. 

— Mrs.  B.  Fairbanks. 


BREAD  13 


BEOWN   BEEAD. 

2  cups  graham  flour,  2  cups  sour  milk, 

1  cup  cornmeal,  2  tablespoons  melted 

1  cup  molasses,  butter. 

1  teaspoon  soda  in 
Steam  three  hours  and  then  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

—Minnie  Wilmot. 

BEOWN  BEEAD. 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  egg,  ^  cup  wheat  flour, 

i  cup  sorghum,  2  cups  graham  flour. 

Steam  two  hours.    BaJ^e  twenty  minutes. 

— Grertrude  Gross. 

BEOWN  BEEAD. 

3  cups  graham  flour,  2  tablespoons  melted  lard, 

2  cups  cornmeal,  2  teaspoons  soda, 
1  cup  white  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

3  cups  sour  milk,  f  cup  molasses.  ■ 

Steam   two   hours,    bake   fifteen   minutes.     Makes   two 
loaves. 

— Mrs.  Wilber. 


14  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

BROWN   BREAD. 

IJ  cups  buttermilk,  1  cup  graham  flour, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  commeal, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  cup  molasses. 

Steam  one  and  one-half  hours. 

— Mrs.  Hamilton. 

BOSTON   BROWN   BREAD. 

1  cup  cornmeal,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

2  cups  graham  flour,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
1  level  teaspoon  soda  in      f  cup  New  Orleans 

1  cup  sour  milk,  molasses. 

Steam  three  hours;  put  a  cloth  over  top  of  steamer  be- 
fore putting  cover  on.  — Mrs.  J.  W.  Homer. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

2  cups  sour  milk,  1  even  teaspoon  soda  in 
4  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  hot  water, 

3  cups  graham  flour,  1  even  teaspoon  salt. 

4  tablespoons  melted  lard 

Stir  together  well,  and  bake  in  slow  oven  nearly  an  hour. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


BREAD  15 


GRAHAM  BREAD. 

1  cup  molasses,  2|  cups  graham  flour, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  |  cup  raisins. 

2  teaspoons  soda  (level), 

Steam  two  hours,  then  bake  twenty  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Austin. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

6  cups  sifted  graham,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

3  cups  sour  milk,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda, 
§  cup  sugar,                         ^  cup  lard. 

2  beaten  eggs. 

Melt  the  lard  and  add  last.  Mould  into  two  loaves  and 
bake  about  an  hour.  — Mrs.  Anna  Corr. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

3  cups  graham  flour,  1  egg,  beaten, 

1  cup  wheat  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  cups  thick  sour  milk,         IJ  teaspoon  soda, 

J  cup  white  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Sift  the  wheat  flour,  sugar,  salt,  baking  powder,  and  soda 
together  several  times;  add  graham,  milk  and  egg,  but  do 
not  beat  much.  — Mrs.  John  Conrad. 


16  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Mix  one  quart  of  warm  water  and  one  yeast  cake  with 
enough  wheat  flour  to  make  a  nice  sponge,  let  rise  over  night; 
in  the  morning  add  four  tablespoons  sugar,  one-third  cup  but- 
ter, four  tablespoons  molasses  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt. 
Mix  stiff  with  graham  flour,  let  rise  until  light,  then  mould 
into  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

GRAHAM   NUT  BREAD. 

1  teaspoon  soda,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

2  cups  sour  milk,  powder  in 
i  cup  sugar,                          1  cup  flour 

I' cup  walnuts,  3  cups  graham. 

Stir  the  soda  in  the  sour  milk  and  add  the  rolled  nuts 
last.     Bake  slowh^  about  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 

— Mrs.  G.  A.  Gross. 

KOLATSCHT. 

In  the  morning  dissolve  a  yeast  cake  in  a  little  water, 
then  stir  in  a  little  flour,  let  rise,  then  add — 
1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk, 

1  cup  shortening,  1  cup  mashed  potato, 

1  egg,  Nutmeg  and  salt. 

Stir  in  flour  to  mix  a  little  softer  than  bread,  let  rise, 
then  mould  into  little  balls,  let  rise,  then  make  a  little  hollow 
in  the  top  of  each  and  fill  with  poppy  seed  boiled  with  sugar 
and  milk ;  or  they  may  be  filled  with  cooked  prunes  sweetened 
and  put  through  a  ricer.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

— Mrs.  Thomas  Wattewa. 


BREAD  17 

OATMEAL  BREAD. 
Boil  two  cups  oatmeal  ten  minutes,  when  cool  add  one- 
half  cup  molasses,  and  one-half  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
warm  water,  let  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  two 
tablespoons  sugar  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt;  mix  stiff  with 
wheat  flour,  let  rise,  mould  into  loaves  and  when  light  bake 
one  hour  and  a  quarter  in  a  moderate  oven. 

—Nora  O'Connell. 

MILK  BREAD. 
1  pint  boiling  milk,  -  1  heaping  tablespoon  salt, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  yeast  cake,  dissolved. 

2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Mix  into  a  sponge  with  warm  water  enough  to  make  the 
required  quantity  of  bread,  then  treat  exactly  like  other  bread. 
After  mixing  the  dough  stiff,  pound  it  vigorously  for  ten 
mJnutes.  — Mrs.  D.  Gfould. 

NORWEGIAN  CHRISTMAS  BREAD. 

IJ  quarts  milk,  f  pound  sugar, 

i  pound  citron,  |  pound  butter. 

5  cents'  worth  cardamon  seed.  Cut  the  citron  fine,  mix 
all  together  and  warm  until  the  butter  and  sugar  are  dis- 
solved (the  cardamon  seed,  before  adding,  should  be  put  in 
a  cloth  and  pounded  to  a  fine  powder,  or  put  through  a  fruit- 
grinder),  then  add  one  and  a  half  cakes  of  compressed  yeast 
and  flour  to  make  a  sponge.  When  light,  add  one  pound 
raisins  and  mix  hard  as  ordinary  bread,  let  rise,  then  mould 
into  six  loaves,  and,  when  light,  bake  one  hour. 

— Mrs.  Louise  M.  Parks. 


18  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

RALSTON'S  HEALTH  BREAD. 
2  pints  Ralston  flour,  J  cup  molaBoes, 

1  pint  wheat  flour,  J  teaspoon  soda, 

1  pint  warm  water,  Little  salt. 

1  cup  yeast. 

Stir  all  together,  let  rise,  then  knead  into  two  loaves, 
using  one  more  cup  Ralston  flour  while  kneading.  Let  rise, 
then  bake  one  hour.  — Beata  Hirth. 

RYE  BREAD. 
To  set  the  sponge  take  about  a  quart  or  quart  and  a  half 
of  rye  flour,  mix  well  with  two  quarts  of  sour  milk  or  butter- 
milk heated  lukewarm  with  hot  water,  and  one-half  cup  of 
yeast.  When  light,  which  will  be  in  about  an  hour,  add  a 
tablespoon  of  salt  and  about  two  quarts  of  wheat  flour ;  knead 
well  and  set  to  rise  again  for  about  an  hour ;  then  mould  into 
three  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake  one  hour. 

— Meta  Pick. 

RYE  BREAD. 

At  noon  mash  two  boiled  potatoes  fine,  add  boiling  potato 
water  until  the  mixture  equals  a  pint,  stir  in  wheat  flour  to 
make  a  thin  batter  and  when  cool  add  one  cake  of  Yeast  Foam 
which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Let  stand 
until  night  to  rise,  then  add  one  quart  of  warm  water,  one 
heaping  tablespoon  salt,  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  shortening 
size  of  egg.  Mix  hard  with  rye  flour.  In  the  morning,  knead 
into  two  loaves,  let  rise,  then  bake  an  hour. 

— ^Mrs.  G.  Knoller. 


BREAD  19 


SALT-EISING    BREAD. 

Put  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  soda  and  sugar  in  a 
quart  dish,  add  one  pint  warm  water,  and  flour  to  make  thick 
batter,  cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place.  In  about  five  hours, 
or  when  the  quart  dish  is  nearly  full,  take  the  quantity  of 
milk  or  water  required  to  make  the  needed  amount  of  bread, 
mix  with  the  sponge  and  put  in  enough  flour  to  make  dough 
quite  stiff ;  let  rise,  then  mould  into  loaves,  let  rise  again  and 
bake.  Milk  makes  whiter  bread  but  water  is  nearly  as  good. 
This  bread  requires  great  care,  but  when  properly  made  is 
fine  grained  and  delicious.  — Mrs.  G.  D.  Dunlap. 

WALNUT  BREAD. 

■J  cup  sugar,  4  teaspoons  baking 

1  egg,  powder  in 

2  cups  milk,  4  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  rolled  nuts. 

One  cup  milk  and  one  cup  of  water  may  be  used  in  place 
of  two  cups  of  milk  if  preferred.  Mix  thoroughly,  let  stand 
twenty  minutes  to  rise,  then  bake  one-half  hour. 

— Mrs.  Fred  Greenwood,  Green  Bay. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BREAD. 

Yeast. 

Part  L 
6  mashed  potatoes,  4  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  hot  potato  water,      1  tablespoon  salt, 
1  cup  hot  water,  J  teaspoon  ginger. 


20  WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

Part  II. 

Soak  one  and  a  half  yeast  cakes  in  two  cups  warm  water, 
then  stir  in  five  tablespoons  flour;  when  cool,  add  to  Part  I, 
and  let  stand  over  night.     In  the  morning  take 
2  cups  yeast,  ^  cup  sugar, 

2  cups  warm  water,  1  rounding  teaspoon 

1  teaspoon  salt,  lard. 

Equal  parts  of  wheat  and  whole  wheat  flour;  mix  hard, 
let  rise,  then  mould  into  five  loaves,  let  rise  again  and  bake. 
Graham  bread  may  be  made  the  same  way  by  substituting 
graham  for  whole  wheat  flour.  — Mrs.  G.  A.  Gross. 

CORN   BREAD. 

2  cups  Indian  meal,  1  teaspoon  gait, 
1  cup  wheat  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  J  cup  molaisses, 

2  cups  sour  milk,  ^  cup  sugar. 

Steam  three  hours,  then  spread  butter  and  molasses  over 
the  top  and  bake  one-half  hour.        — Mrs.  J.  E.  AdamB. 

CORN  BREAD. 

2  cups  Indian  meal,  2  eggs  beaten  in 

1  cup  flour,  little  salt,  2  tablespoons  hot  lard, 

3  tablespoons  baking  Enough  sweet  milk  to 
powder  dissolved  in  make  a  soft  batter, 
boiling  water. 

Put  in  a  hot,  shallow,  greased  tin  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 
While  serving,  keep  the  bread  hot  in  a  napkin. 

— Mrs.  C.  Muellenbach. 


BREAD  21 


STEAMED    CORN    BREAD.     (Southern.) 

2  cups  flour,  1  cup  raisins, 

1  cup  commeal,  i  cup  sugar,  little  salt. 

Stir  in  enough  sour  or  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter ; 
if  sour  milk  use  one  even  teaspoon  of  soda  for  every  cup  of 
milk,  and  if  sweet  milk  use  three  even  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.     Very  nice  with  baked  beans. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

BISHOP   WILLIAMS'   JOHNNY    CAKE. 

1  cup  yellow  meal,  2  unbeaten  eggs, 

1  cup  wheat  flour,  ^  teaspoooi  soda, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

1  cup  sugar.  Pinch  of  salt.    Bake  20 

3  tablespoons  melted  minutes, 
butter, 

— Mrs.  R.  Hunter. 

JOHNNY  CAKE  OR  CORN  PONE. 

2  cups  commeal,  J  cup  brown  sugar, 

1  cup  flour,  1  eggj  pinch  of  salt, 

2  cups  sour  milk  or  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
buttermilk,  in  a  little  milk. 

After  it  begins  to  brown  baste  with  melted  butter,  which 
will  be  found  a  great  improvement. 

— Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 


22  WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

JOHNNY  CAKE.     (Fine.) 

J  cup  cormueal,  1  teaspoon  soda  (sifted 

i  cup  flour,  in  flour), 

1  cup  sour  cream,  Little  sugar  and  salt. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Wittenberg. 

JOHNNY   CAKE. 

1  cup  cornmeal,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
IJ  cups  flour,                        1  pint  sweet  milk, 

2  teaspoons  baking  2  eggs, 

powder,  1  tablespoon  melted 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  butter. 

Mix  in  the  order  given;  pour  into  buttered  pan  and  bake- 
in  moderate  oven.  — Mrs.  S.  S.  Barney. 

JOHNNY   CAKE. 

1  pint  sour  milk  or  1  egg, 
buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

f  cup  sugar,  J  teaspoon  salt, 

2  cups  cornmeal,  Butter  size  of  an  egg. 
1  cup  flour, 

—Mrs.  P.  W.  Harns. 


BREAD  23 

JOHNNY   CAKE. 

2  cups  cornmeal,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter, 

1  cup  flour,  1  heaping  tablespoon  lard. 

4  teaspoon  salt,  1  even  teaspoon  soda  in 

IJ  tablespoons  sugar,  2  cups  sour  milk, 

1  teaspoon  baking  1  egg. 

powder, 
Sift  the  meal,  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder  to- 
gether; melt  the  butter  and  lard  in  the  baking  pan  and  pour 
over  the  sifted  ingredients,  mixing  it  in  very  lightly  with 
the  finger  tips;  then  mix  in  the  sour  milk,  add  the  beaten 
egg,  turn  into  the  hot  pan  and  bake. 

—Mrs.  C.  F.  North. 


AUNT   FANNIE'S   BISCUIT. 

1  quart  flour,  1  tablespoon  lard, 

3  teaspoons  baking  J  teaspoon  salt, 

powder,  f  pint  cold  water. 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  several  times, 
then  rub  in  the  lard  as  for  pie  crust,  stir  in  the  water  with 
a  spoon,  turn  on  a  well  floured  moulding  board,  cut  into 
biscuit  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


24  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

BAKING   POWDEE   BISCUIT. 

4  cups  flour;  little  salt,        1  large  tablespoon  larcl, 
3  heaping  teaspoons  Sweet  milk  enough  to 

baking  powder,  make  soft  dough. 

Mix  little  as  possible.    Bake  in  quick  oven. 

—Mrs.  B.  S.  Potter. 

BAKING   POWDER   BISCUIT. 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  heaping  tablespoon  Flour  to  mix  soft, 

lard, 
Ptit  lard  in  mixing  bowl  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  add  a  cup 
of  flour,  stir  well  together  with  a  spoon,  add  milk,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Stir  briskly,  turn  on  floured 
moulding  board,  roll,  cut  into  biscuit  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  twenty  minutes.  These  biscuits  should  be  made,  and  in 
the  oven,  in  five  minutes'  time.  This  dough  makes  fine 
shortcake.  — Mrs.  A.  Rice. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 

1  heaping  cup  flour,  1  heaping  tablespoon 

1  heaping  teaspoon  lard, 

baking  powder,  ^  cup  milk, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  i  cup  water. 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together,  rub  in  the 
lard  as  for  pie  crust,  stir  in  the  milk  and  water,  making  a 
soft  dough,  put  on  a  moulding  board,  press  out  with  the 


BREAD  25 


hands  but  do  not  roll.  The  quicker  the  process  after  the 
milk  and  water  are  in  the  better  the  biscuits.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven.     This  makes  eight  good-sized  biscuits. 

— Mrs.  Allan  Bayley. 


BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 

1  quart  flour,  2J  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  Sweet  milk. 

1  tablespoon  melted  lard, 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together,  stir  in  milk 
to  make  a  soft  dough,  add  the  lard  last.    Make  dough  an  inch 
thick,  cut  with  a  tumbler  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

—Bertha  Topel. 


CREAM  BISCUIT. 
1  quart  flour,  1  pint  sour  cream, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  1  beaten  egg. 

1  teaspoon  salt, 
Mix  soft,  using  more  flour  if  necessary  in  rolling  out 
bake  in  quick  oven.  — Miss  Johnoon. 


26  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CREAM   BISCUIT. 

6  ounces  powdered  6  ounces  flour, 

sugar,  6  eggs. 

Beat  the  yolks  with  sugar  and  flour;  whisk  the  whites, 
and  stir  all  together.  Add  whipped  cream  in  proportion  to 
the  sugar  and  flour,  stir  carefully,  pour  into  moulds  or  paper 
cases  and  bake.  — Miss  Marie  Klumb. 


CREAM   OF  TARTAR   BISCUIT. 

1  quart  flour,  2  teaspoons  cream  of 

1  pint  milk,  tartar, 

1  teaspoon  soda.  Butter,  half  size  of  egg. 

Rub  butter  and  flour  together,  add  the  other  ingredients 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


CURRANT   BISCUIT. 

2  cups  bread  sponge,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  sugar,  f  cup  shortening, 

1  egg,  beaten,  1  cup  currants. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

—Mrs.  D.  Gould. 


BREAD  27 


DROP   BISCTJIT. 

1  pint  flour,  1  large  tablespoon  lard, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  1  teaspoon  salt. 

baking  powder, 
Mix  with  milk  to  a  batter,  about  as  thin  as  for  gems; 
bake  in  greased  gem  pans  in  a  quick  oven. 

— Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 

RAISED  BISCUIT. 

1  rounded  tablespoon  butter  melted  in 

1  pint  hot  milk;  when  lukewarm  stir  in 

1  quart  flour;  add 

1  beaten  egg,  a  little  salt  and 

1  teacup  yeast. 
Work  into  smooth  dough.  If  winter,  set  in  a  warm  place, 
if  summer,  in  a  cool  one,  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
work  softly  and  roll  out  ooie-half  inch  thick.  Cut  into  biscuit 
and  set  to  rise  for  thirty  minutes,  when  they  will  be  ready  to 
bake.  — Mrs.  C.  W.  Williams. 

RAISED  BISCUIT.     (Fine.) 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

i  cup  warm  water,  then  add 

2  tablespoons  flour  and  let  rise. 


28  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

When  light,  add 
1  pint  warm  milk,  J  cup  sugar, 

^  cup  lard,  1  or  more  unbeaten  eggs, 

J  cup  butter.  Pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  with  a  spoon  and  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  let  rise,  add  more  flour  and  mix  thoroughly  (fifteen 
minutes  or  more),  let  rise,  mould  into  small  biscuit,  let  rise 
again,  and  bake  ten  minutes.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

SODA  BISCUIT. 

1  cup  sour  cream,  1  egg,  beaten, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  J  teaspoon  soda. 

Little  salt,  Flour  to  make  drop  batter. 

Bake  in  gem  pans. 

— Mrs.  F.  J.  Haas. 

YEAST   BISCUIT. 

1  pint  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

2  cents  worth  of  yeast,         1  teaspoon  salt, 
2  tablespoons  lard,  2  quarts  flour. 

Mix  the  yeast  and  milk  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
sponge;  when  light  add  lard,  sugar,  salt  and  flour;  let  rise, 
mould  into  biscuit,  let  rise  again  and  bake. 

— Mrs.  Matthew  Regner. 


BREAD  29 


BEBAKFAST   ROLLS. 

1  egg,  beaten  very  light,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  J  teaspoon  soda, 

1  tablespoon  melted  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar 
butter,  little  salt,  1  cup  flour. 

Drop  into  hot  gem  rings  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

— Margaret  Ross. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Boil  one  pint  sweet  milk,  when  partly  cooled  melt  in  it 
two  tablespoons  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  lard  or  butter,  when 
lukewarm  add  one-half  cup  of  yeast  or  two  cents  worth  com- 
pressed yeast,  mix  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter  and 
let  rise;  when  light  add  more  flour  and  knead  from  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes,  when  light  again  knead  into  biscuits,  let  rise, 
bake  twenty  minutes.  — Elizabeth  Dunham. 

ROLLS. 

2  quarts  flour,  1  pint  cold  boiled  milk, 
1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  yeast-cake  dissolved  in 
1  teaspoon  salt,                     4  cup  lukewarm  milk, 

1  egg,  Butter  size  of  egg. 

Melt  the  butter  and  after  the  yeast  cake  is  dissolved  stir 
ingredients  together  and  let  rise  until  very  light.  Roll  out, 
cut  round,  spread  with  melted  butter  and  lap  half  over  the 
other  side;  let  rise  again  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Joseph  Ott. 


30  WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

ROLLS.     (Excellent.) 

I  quart  milk,  3  level  teaspoons  salt, 

1  pint  water,  1  cake  compressed  yeast, 
3  tablespoons  lard,  Flour. 

2  level  teaspoons  sugar, 

Heat  milk  and  water  and  pour  scalding  hot  over  the  lard, 
sugar  and  salt,  let  stand  until  cool,  then  add  the  dissolved 
yeast  and  stir  in  flour  with  a  spoon  until  the  batter  is  stiff 
enough  to  pour  out  on  moulding  board;  mould  lightly  ten 
minutes,  using  no  more  flour  than  is  necessary ;  let  rise,  make 
into  rolls,  handling  little  as  possible.  This  makes  one  hun- 
dred and  nine  rolls.  — Mrs.  A.  Rice. 

BRAN  GEMS. 

1  tablespoon  shortening,  1  cup  raisins  (whole), 

1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  cooking  bran, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  flour, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt. 
Nuts,  if  desired.                              — Mrs.  A.  Ahrens. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

1  egg,  Graham  flour  to  make 

1  pint  milk,  drop  batter. 

Pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 

J  cup  wheat  flour,  der. 

Drop  in  hot  gem  pans  and  bake  quickly.  Iron  pans 
are  best.  —Mrs.  Geo.  Thode. 


BREAD 


31 


GRAHAM  GEMS. 


1  eggj  little  salt, 
4  tablespoons  sugar, 
^  cup  sour  cream, 
to  make  medium  batter. 


1  cup  buttermilk, 
i  teaspoon  soda, 
Graham  flour  enough 

— Minnie  Brecken. 


GRAHAM  GEMS. 


1  tablespoon  sugar, 
J  tablespoon  butter. 


1  teaspoon  soda  in 

1  cup  sour  milk, 

2  cups  graham  flour. 
— Mrs.  Charles  Taylor. 


GRAHAM    CRACKERS. 


^  cup  butter, 

4  cup  sugar, 

1  white  of  egg  (beaten), 

Graham  to  roll  thin. 


1  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
^  teaspoon  soda  in 
^  cup  water. 


GRAHAM   STICKS. 

2  quarts  flour,  2  cups  water  or  milk, 

4  cup  butter,  Little  salt. 

Mix  stiff  with  graham,  roll  thin  as  cookies,  cut  in  squares 
.and  roll  into  sticks.  — Mrs.  Miles. 


32  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

BREAD   STICKS. 

•  Melt  one-quarter  cup  butter,  one  tablespoon  sugar  and 
little  salt  in  one  cup  hot  milk.  When  partially  cool  add  one- 
quarter  cake  compressed  yeast  which  has  been  dissolved  in 
three  tablespoons  warm  milk,  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  and 
about  four  cups  flour.  Knead  until  smooth,  let  rise,  shape 
into  small  balls  and  roll  into  sticks  a  half  foot  long.  Let 
them  rise  slowly  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

SWEET   CRACKERS. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  pint  sweet  milk, 

2  whites  of  eggs,  frothed,  5  cts.  worth  oil  of  lemon, 
5  cts.  worth  of  ammonia,  Flour  to  mix  stiff  (about 
1  pint  lard,  eight  cups). 

Pulverize  ammonia,  add  to  one  cup  of  the  milk  and  let 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  stir  all  the  ingredients 
together,  roll  out,  prick  with  a  fork,  cut  like  cookies  or  in 
any  shape  desired  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

— Mrs.  P.  B.  Craney. 

CREAM  MUFFINS.     (Southern.) 

1  pint  cream,  A  little  salt, 

5  eggs.  Flour  enough  to  make 

1  teaspoon  baking  like  fritter  batter, 

powder. 
Bake  in  muffin  tins  or  drop  in  large  pan.     To  be  eaten 
hot.    Very  delicious.  — Mrs.  W.  E.  Wolfrum. 


BREAD  33 


GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

i  cup  sugar,  1  beaten  egg, 

1  tablespoon  melted  2  teaspoons  baking 

butter,  powder  in 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  flour, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  graham. 

Sift  the  dry  ing]-edients  together  several  times,  then 
add,  gradually,  the  milk,  butter  and  egg.  Bake  in  hot  but- 
tered gem  pans  twenty  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Peter  Baenke. 


MUFFINS. 
1  cup  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

i  cup  sugar,  der, 

1  tablespoon  melted  3 J  cups  flour, 

butter,  3  beaten  eggs. 

Put  in  flour  last  and  do  not  stir  much.    Bake  ten  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven.  —Ida  M.  Helms. 


MUFFINS. 

1  quart  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

3  eggs,  6  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Half  this  recipe  is  enough  for  a 
small  family.  —Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 


34  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


MUFFINS. 

J  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  3   teaspoons   baking  powder 

1  eggy  in  flour. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg,  milk,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  gem  batter.  —Mrs.  Geo.  Thode. 


MUFFINS. 

1  Ggg,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  2  cups  flour, 

1  tablespoon  melted  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

butter,  der. 

Bake  in  hot  oven.     Makes  twelve  muffins. 

— Mrs.  0.  B.  Coombe. 


MUFFINS. 

1  pint  warm  milk,  Little  salt, 

1  cup  potato  yeast.  Flour  for  soft  sponge, 

Butter  size  of  large  3  eggs,  beaten  light. 

(igg- 
Melt  the  butter ;  stir  in  the  eggs  last.    If  for  supper  stir 
together  at  nine  or  ten  in  the  forenoon,  cover  and  let  stand 
in  a  warm  place.     Do  not  stir  down  until  time  to  bake  in  a 
hot  oven.  —Mrs.  H.  F.  Shadbolt. 


BREAD  35 

OLD  TIME  MUFFINS. 

^  cup  butter,  ^  cake  compressed  yeast, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  A  pinch  of  salt, 

2  eggs,  Flour  enough  to  make 

1  pint  milk,  drop  batter. 

Beat  very  thoroughly.  Let  rise;  drop  in  muffin  tins  and 
bake  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour  in  a  very  hot  oven. 
This  will  make  sixteen  muffins.  Mix  before  noon  if  wanted 
for  supper  or  at  night  if  intended  for  breakfast. 

— Mrs.  Mary  Lewis. 

POTATO   MUFFINS. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  lard, 

3  small  potatoes,  1  teaspoon  butter, 

1  cup  scalded  milk,  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

Little  more  than  one-fourth  cake  of  yeast  and  flour  to 
knead  not  too  stiff.  Set  at  ten  and  roll  out  at  three  for  six 
o'clock  tea.  Cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  put  in  tin,  not  very  close 
together,  let  rise  very  light  and  puffy  and  bake  fifteen  min- 
utes. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Foster. 

POP   OVERS. 

3  cups  milk,  3  cups  flour, 

3  eggs,  A  little  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  until  light,  add  to  the  milk,  and  then  add 
the  flour,  a  little  at  a  time.    Two  tablespoons  to  a  puff. 

—Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 


36  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

RYE  DROP   OAKES. 

1  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

3  eggs,  -J  teaspoon  salt. 

Stir  in  enough  rye  flour  to  make  like  pancake  batter. 
Bake  in  muffin  tins  one  hour. 


SWEET  COEN  FRITTERS. 

1  pint  grated  corn.  1  egg ;  pepper  to  taste, 

1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Drop  into  boiling  lard.  — Mrs.  Eliza  Weil. 


FRITTERS. 

1  pint  sweet  milk,  1  quart  flour, 

4  eggs ;  little  salt,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Drop  in  hot  lard.    Serve  warm  with  maple  syrup. 

— Mrs.  P.  W.  Harns. 


FRITTERS. 

IJ  teaspoons  baking  If  cups  flour, 

powder,  ^  cup  milk, 

I  teaspoon  salt,  4  eggs. 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together;  mix  the 
beaten  eggs  with  the  milk,  then  stir  all  together  thoroughly. 
Add  more  milk  if  needed  to  make  the  proper  consistency; 
drop  from  spoon  in  hot  lard.  — Mrs.  E.  C.  Pors. 


BREAD  37 


WAFFLES. 


1  quart  sour  cream,  5  eggs, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

•J  teaspoon  salt,  Flour  to  mix  soft. 

—Mrs.  Eliza  Weil. 


WAFFLES. 

1  pint  sweet  milk.  Flour  for  soft  batter, 

J  cup  melted  butter,  3  whites  of  eggs,  beaten, 

3  egg  yolks  beaten,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  in  order  given,  then  beat  hard  and  fast  for  five 
minutes. 


BUCKWHEAT   CAKES. 

Put  into  a  large  earthern  pitcher,  one  quart  of  warm 
water  or  half  water  and  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  enough 
buckwheat  flour  for  rather  stiff  batter;  then  add  a  cup  of 
yeastj  stir  until  smooth  and  cover  warm  to  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning,  add  a  small  level  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
a  little  warm  water.  "Very  nice  if  made  with  two-thirds  buck- 
wheat flour  and  one-third  commeal,  or  with  half  buckwheat 
and  half  wheat  flour.  — Mrs.  Ada  Tower. 


38  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


EGG   PANCAKES. 

Mix  one  pint  of  flour,  three-quarters  pint  sweet  milk  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Separate  three  eggs,  add  the  beaten  yolks  to 
the  batter  which  must  not  be  too  thin.  Just  before  baking 
stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  This 
batter  makes  two  pancakes  the  size  of  the  skillet;  bake  in 
plenty  of  butter  and  serve  with  apple  sauce. 

— Mrs.  Emma  Wilkie. 


FEENCH  PANCAKES. 

3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 

1  cup  milk,  1  cup  flour, 

1  teaspoon  butter.  Pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  add  milk,  butter,  sugar,  flour,  salt  and 
last  the  beaten  whites.  — Mrs.  August  E.  Winkler. 


POTATO   PANCAKES. 

Fourteen  large  potatoes  grated  raw ;  after  standing  a  few 
minutes  drain  off  the  liquid,  then  add  a  little  salt,  two  well 
beaten  eggs,  one  heaping  tablespoon  flour  and  a  little  baking 
powder;  fry  on  a  griddle  greased  with  a  mixture  of  butter 
and  lard.  — Mrs.  Charles  Weber. 


BREAD  39 


POTATO   PANCAKES. 

Grate  twelve  large,  peeled  potatoes  into  cold  water ;  when 
all  are  grated  drain  off  the  water  and  pour  two  cups  boiling 
milk  over  them,  stir  in  two  eggs,  salt,  and  three  heaping 
tablespoons  flour  containing  one  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Bake  like  other  pancakes,  allowing  more  lard  and  butter. 
Serve  with  stewed  apples  or  preserved  fruit. 

— Mrs.  George  Kuelthau. 


POTATO  CAKES. 

To  a  cup  of  cold  mashed  potato  add  a  tablespoon  of  milk, 
a  small  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  roll  out,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter 
and  fry  slowly  on  a  greased  griddle.    Turn  but  once. 


PANCAKES. 

One  scant  pint  sonr  milk,  sour  cream  or  buttermilk,  two 
eggs;  sift  one  teaspoon  soda  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt  into 
one  pint  flour  and  mix  thoroughly;  beat  flour  and  milk  to- 
gether well,  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  last  the  whites  beaten 
stiff.  One-half  or  one-third  commeal  or  graham  mixed  with 
the  flour  makes  a  nice  variety.  Good  flour  or  buckwheat  pan- 
cakes can  be  made  with  sour  milk  and  soda,  or  buttermilk  and 
soda,  without  eggs.  — Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 


40  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

FEEN^CH  TOAST. 

Beat  an  egg  well  with  one-half  cup  milk,  add  a  little  salt, 
dip  slices  of  stale  bread  into  the  mixture  and  fry  in  butter. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


GERMAN   TOAST. 

Dip  slices  of  stale  bread  first  in  milk,  then  in  beaten  eggs 
and  brown  on  a  buttered  griddle. 

Dip  thin  slices  of  bread  in  a  thin  batter  made  of  two 
eggs,  one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  flour; 
fry  in  hot  lard. 


CAMPING  SANDWICHES. 

Butter  slices  of  bread  and  spread  with  mustard ;  over  the 
mustard  place  thin  slices  of  cheese;  over  the  cheese  place  a 
layer  of  minced  sardines  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and 
vinegar.  — Katherine  M.  Bowen. 


CHICKEN  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  cold,  cooked  chicken  and  tongue  very  fine,  add  one- 
fourth  the  quantity  of  finely  chopped,  blanched  almonds,  a 
little  seasoning  and  lemon  juice.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of 
buttered  bread. 


BREAD  41 


DATE  SANDWICHES. 

Wash,  dry  and  stone  the  dates,  mash  to  a  pulp,  add  an 
equal  quantity  of  finely  chopped  English  walnuts;  moisten 
slightly  with  a  little  lemon  juice;  spread  smoothly  on  thinly 
sliced  brown  bread. 


FRUIT  SANDWICHES. 

Roast,  blanch  and  chop  one-half  cup  peanuts,  mix  with 
one-half  cup  each  fresh  figs  and  raisins  which  have  been 
cut  fine.  Moisten  with  orange  juice  and  spread  on  thin  slices 
of  white  bread.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 


PEANUT    SANDWICHES. 

Chop  peanuts  fine  as  meal,  mix  with  butter  and  spread 
on  thin  slices  of  bread ;  or  spread  the  bread  with  butter,  add 
a  layer  of  finely  chopped  nuts  and  sprinkle  with  cheese  and 
salt.  — A.  Pries. 


PICNIC   SANDWICHES. 

4  hard  boiled  eggs,  1  can  potted  ham, 

f  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  mustard. 

Spread  slices  of  bread  with  a  mixture  made  of  the  pow- 
dered yolks,  butter  and  mustard.  Chop  whites  very  fine,  mix 
with  the  ham  and  put  between  the  slices. 


42  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

'     SANDWICHES. 

Fill  thin,  buttered  slices  of  rye  bread  with  boiled  or  raw 
ham  chopped  fine  with  a  little  onion;  or  fill  with  salted  sar- 
dines or  herring  freshened  in  water,  chopped  fine  and  mixed 
with  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs.  — Grandma  Pick. 

SANDWICHES. 

Boil  two  pounds  of  beef  and  one  pound  of  fresh  pork 
together  until  tender,  then  put  through  a  meat  grinder,  pack 
in  a  basin,  cover  with  the  liquor  in  wliich  the  meat  was  boiled, 
let  cool,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  spread  on  thin  slices 
of  white  bread.  This  filling  may  be  varied  by  seasoning  with 
sage  or  celery  salt  or  a  little  salad  dressing  may  be  added. 
A  nice  filling  may  also  be  made  by  preparing  two  pounds 
of  fresh  pork  in  the  same  way,  seasoning  only  with  pepper 
and  salt.  —Mrs.  L.  C.  C. 


5oups. 


^'Cheerful  looks  make  every  dish  a  feast. 
And  His  that  that  crowns  a  welcome." 

A  PLAIN  BEAN  SOUP. 

Put  over  one  pint  of  beans  in  cold  water.  Let  boil  about 
ten  minutes,  then  add  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  let  boil  five  minutes 
longer,  then  strain  through  a  colander.  Place  the  beans 
again  on  the  stove,  adding  two  quarts-  of  boiling  water,  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  and  a  small  onion  fried  in  a 
little  butter  but  not  browned.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Bodl  three  hours,  or  until  beans  are  soft;  then  rub  them 
through  a  strainer,  let  boil  up  again,  and  serve  with  oroutonis. 

—Mrs.  C.  H.  Miller. 

ASPAEAGUS   SOUP. 

Cook  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  soup  meat  and  when  the 
water  is  reduced  to  three  pints  of  soup  add  a  little  parsley 
and  onion,  season  with  salt,  boil  till  well  done,  then  strain 
and  add  one  bowl  of  asparagus  cut  up  fine,  a  little  nutmeg 
and  a  cup  of  sweet  cream.    Serve  with  croutons. 

— Mrs.  Joseph  Merlach. 


44  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

Put  one  pint  of  beans  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  let 
boil  one-half  hour,  then  strain  through  a  colander.  Place 
beans  again  on  stove  adding  one  and  one-half  quarts  boiling 
water,  one-fourth  pound  bacon,  one  large  potato  cut  in  small 
pieces,  one  small  onion  cut  fine,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Let  boil  until  beans  are  soft.  Brown  one  tablespoon  lard  and 
flour,  add  to  the  soup.     Add  water  if  soup  is  too  thick. 

— Mary  Bertram. 

BEEF  TON"GUE  SOUP. 

Wash  carefully  a  fresh  beef  tongue  and  two  pounds  of 
beef  or  soup  bone;  cover  with  boiling  water;  add  an  onion, 
a  carrot,  three  or  four  pieces  of  celery,  two  bayleaves,  three 
peppercorns,  a  little  salt,  and  enough  tomatoes  to  color.  Sim- 
mer four  hours,  strain,  and  serve.         — Grandma  Pick. 

BEERY  SOUP. 

Mash  one  quart  of  berries  or  stoned  cherries,  and  bring 
to  a  boil  in  two  quarts  of  water,  then  quickly  stir  into  this  four 
heaping  tablespoons  farina  or  sago.  Boil  ten  minutes,  then 
add  sugar  to  taste,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  and  pinch  of  salt.  Serve  warm  or  cold,  with  or 
without  croutons.  Mrs.  E.  Hoyer. 


SOUPS.  45 


BOUILLON. 

To  a  large  shin  of  beef,  cut  in  small  pieces,  allow  five 
small  dippers  of  cold  water.  Let  come  to  a  boil  quickly, 
taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  then  add  one  onion  and  a  table- 
spoon of  salt.  Set  back  on  stove  and  let  boil  slowly  for  four 
hours.  A  head  of  celery  put  in  whole,  after  peeling,  improves 
the  flavor.     It  is  best  to  cook  the  soup  the  day  before  needed. 

— Mrs.  William  A.  Pors. 

CHILI  CON  CAEOT. 

1  lb.  chopped  beef,  1  cup  spaghetti, 

1  can  tomatoes,  1  bay  leaf, 

2  large  onions,  chopped,     3  small  red  peppers, 

IJ  quarts  water.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Cook  three  hours;  add  water  as  required  to  make  one 
and  a  half  quarts  when  done. 

— Mrs.  G.  W.  Garvey. 

MEXICAN  CHILI. 

1  two-pound  can  of  2  tablespoons  butter, 

tomatoes,  2  quarts  water, 

1  one-pound  can  of  Salt  to  taste, 

kidney  beans,  1  large  onion, 

1  pound  Hamburger  1  large  garlic, 

steak.  Flour  to  thicken. 

Mash  the  tomatoes  fine,  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  the 
beans.  Fry  the  Hamburger  until  crumbled  fine,  then  add  the 
sliced  onion  and  garlic  and  fry  again ;  add  this  to  the  mixture 


46  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

in  the  kettle,  add  the  water,  as  soon  as  it  boils  up  thicken  with 
the  flour  and  flavor  with  a  pinch  of  Mexican  Chili  pepper, 
if  this  cannot  be  obtained  use  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper. 
The  can  of  tomatoes  is  usually  marked  2  pounds  and  3  ounces 
and  the  can  of  beans  one  pound  and  three  ounces. 

—Mrs.  G.  Neill. 

CEEAM     OF    ASPARAGUS     SOUP. 

Cook  one  quart  of  asparagus,  cut  in  pieces,  in  as  little 
salt  water  as  possible.  When  done,  mash  through  colander, 
put  back  in  kettle,  add  one  and  one-half  quarts  milk,  let  come 
to  a  boil,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

— Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 

CEEAM    SALMON    SOUP. 

Remove  oil,  skin  and  bones  from  one-half  can  of  salmon, 
rub  to  a  paste.  Scald  one  quart  milk  with  a  slice  of  onion 
and  bit  of  bay  leaf.  Add  salmon  and  two  teaspoons  each  of 
flour  and  butter  which  have  been  rubbed  to  a  cream.  Serve 
with  croutons.  — Mrs.  Paul  Rix. 

EGG  SOUP. 

1  pint  water,  2  fresh  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Break  the  eggs  in  a  cup  and  when  the  water  boils  pour 
them  in  slowly,  beating  briskly  all  the  time  with  a  fork  till 
white  and  yolk  look  like  shreds.     Serve  with  salted  wafers. 

— Mrs.  W.  Howe. 


SOUPS.  47 


MILK  SOUP. 

Boil  three  medium  sized  potatoes  and  onions  in  one  pint 
of  water  until  tender,  then  put  all  through  a  colander.  Brown 
one  tablespoon  butter  and  one  tablespoon  flour  in  the  kettle, 
then  turn  the  soup  back  into  kettle,  stirring  slowly;  let  come 
to  a  boil,  then  add  on«  pint  sweet  milk  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Butter  stale  bread,  cut  in  squares,  brown  in 
oven,  and  serve  with  soup.  — Mrs.  H.  Sievers. 


MILK   SOUP. 

1  quart  sweet  milk,  ^  tablespoon  butter, 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  Pinch  of  salt. 

Let  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  two  eggs  well  and  add  to  the 
soup.  Serve  with  crackers.  If  preferred,  use  two  spoons  of 
rice  or  sago  instead  of  the  eggs.  — Mary  Bertram. 


MUTTON"  BROTH. 

Cut  three  pounds  of  lean  mutton  into  small  squares,  put 
in  three  quarts  of  water,  cover,  and  boil  slowly  two  hours; 
then  add  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  rice  which  has  been  soaked  in 
warm  water  enough  to  cover  it,  cook  slowly  an  hour  longer, 
stirring  from  time  to  time.  Strain  and  thicken  with  a  little 
flour;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Particularly  nice  for  invalids. 

— Mrs.  James  Friedlander. 


48  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

MUTTON   SOUP. 

To  the  broth  of  a  boiled  leg  of  mutton  add  one  quart 
of  milk,  thickened  with  flour  stirred  smooth.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  a  little  parsley  and  celery  root  or  celery  salt. 
To  this  add  three  tablespoons  of  rice,  which  has  been  boiled 
soft  in  a  little  of  the  broth.  Pour  slowly  over  two  eggs  which 
have  been  well  beaten  in  the  tureen. 

— Mrs.  S.  S.  Barney. 

ONION   SOUP. 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter  in  a  spider,  when  it  bubbles 
add  four  large  onions  cut  in  slices;  let  them  simmer,  with- 
out browning,  half  an  hour,  then  stir  in  a  slightly  heaping 
tablespoon  of  flour ;  when  thickened,  pour  in  gradually  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  boiling  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
press  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  fire.  While  it  is  get- 
ting hot  beat  together  two  egg  yolks  and  half  a  cup  of  cream, 
remove  the  soup  from  the  fire,  stir  the  eggs  and  the  cream 
into  it  rapidly,  pour  at  once  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

— A.  Pries. 

OX  TAIL  SOUP. 

1  oxtail,  1  ounce  butter, 

^  turnip,  1  ounce  flour, 

^  carrot.  24  quarts  water. 

1  onion,  t  teaspoon  browninsr, 

4  cloves,  Salt,  pepper  and  herbs. 


SOUPS.  49 

Divide  the  tail  into  joints,  remove  the  fat,  melt  the 
butter  in  a  stew  pan,  and  brown  the  pieces  of  tail  in  it.  Cut 
the  onion  into  slices,  throw  them  into  the  pan  to  brown  with 
the  tail.  Add  the  hot  water,  vegetables,  herbs,  cloves,  salt, 
pepper,  and  the  browning.  Let  all  simmer  slowly  for  two 
and  a  half  or  three  hours.  When  the  pieces  of  tail  are  cooked, 
take  them  from  the  pan,  put  them  aside  to  keep  hot;  strain 
the  soup ;  thicken  it  with  flour,  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste  with 
a  little  cold  water.  Let  the  soup  boil  a  few  minutes,  then 
pour  into  a  tureen  and  add  the  pieces  of  tail.  If  the  soup 
is  preferred  clear,  omit  the  flour.  — Grandma  Pick. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

1  quart  oysters,  1  teacup  cream. 

2  quarts  milk.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Put  all  together  cold,  then  cook  until  the  oysters  curl 
(do  not  allow  them  to  boil).  — H.  Hunter. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 
Take  one  quart  boiling  water  and  one  quart  good  rich 
milk ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  let  come  to  a  boil, 
then  add  one  quart  of  oysters  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg;  let  boil  up  once,  remove  from  fire  and  serve  imme- 
diately. —Mrs.  W.  T. 


50  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

PLAIN  SOUP. 

Take  three  pounds  of  soup  beef  and  a  small  bone  from 
a  leg  of  veal,  cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  down  half,  then 
skim,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  good  sized  carrot, 
a  head  of  celery,  and  an  onion  cut  in  two  parts. 

— Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 


POTATO   SOUP. 

Boil  one  stalk  of  celery  and  six  good  sized  potatoes  in 
salted  water  until  tender,  then  mash  through  a  sieve  and  thin 
with  one  quart  of  milk.  Season  with  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter; pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  — Minnie  Wilmot. 


POTATO   SOUP. 

Peel  and  slice  six  large  potatoes  and  two  good-sized 
onions,  cook  in  a  quart  and  a  half  of  salted  water  until  tender, 
then  mash  with  a  potato  masher.  Brown  butter,  the  size  of  an 
egg,  and  add  to  the  soup,  also  add  pepper,  a  little  parsley  and 
more  salt,  if  needed.  Serve  with  toasted  Holland  rusk.  This 
is  a  wholesome  and  inexpensive  soup.  Meat  fryings  may  be 
used  in  place  of  butter.  — Mrs.  G.  Knoller. 


SOUPS.  51 


SPLIT    PEA   SOUP. 

Soak  a  quart  of  peas  in  a  gallon  of  lukewarm  water  over 
night.  In  the  morning  boil  with  a  few  potatoes,  a  celery 
root,  a  little  parsley,  and  an  onion  two  hours.  When  boiled 
down  to  half  the  quantity  take  out  the  vegetables  and  press 
through  a  colander.  If  the  soup  is  too  thin  stir  a  piece  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan  with  a  spoonful  of  flour;  let  it  boil,  stir 
in  part  of  the  soup  briskly  and  add  to  the  whole.  Have  some 
croutons  ready  in  the  soup  tureen  and  serve.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  It  is  nice  after  the  soup  is  strained 
to  boil  some  little  sausages  in  it  and  serve  as  an  entree. 

— Mrs.  James  Friedlander. 


SPLIT    PEA   SOUP. 

Put  one  cup  of  dried  split  peas  on  to  boil  in  three  pints 
of  water,  with  a  piece  of  ham  or  bacon  to  flavor.  When  the 
peas  are  soft,  rub  through  a  strainer,  and  put  on  to  boil  again ; 
boil  together  a  large  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour  and 
add  to  the  strained  soup  while  boiling ;  also  add  one  teaspoon 
of  sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  boil  five  minutes ; 
then  serve  at  once  with  croutons.       — Mrs.  G.  H.  Miller. 


62  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

STOCK  FOR  CLEAR  SOUP. 

Two  pounds  of  shin  of  beef,  one  onion^  one  carrot,  one 
turnip,  half  teaspoon  peppercorns,  three  pints  of  water,  one 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  small  piece  of  white  part  of  celery. 
Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  put  into  a  saucepan  and  pour 
water  over  it.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  skim  carefully,  add 
a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  after  a  few  minutes  skim  the  stock 
again.  Let  it  simmer  slowly  for  an  hour.  Cut  the  vegetables 
in  pieces  and  add  them  with  the  herbs  and  peppercorns  to 
the  stock;  then  let  all  simmer  together  four  hours  longer. 
Strain  the  stock,  setting  it  aside  till  cold.  When  wanted  for 
use,  remove  every  particle  of  fat,  put  the  stock  into  the  sauce- 
pan with  two  ounces  of  fresh  meat,  a  small  piece  of  carrot, 
the  same  of  turnip,  celery,  and  onion,  and  a  small  bunch  of 
herbs.  Let  them  simmer  for  a  short  time.  This  gives  a 
fresher  taste  to  the  soup.  Strain  as  before.  For  vermicelli, 
rice,  sago,  and  macaroni  soups  it  is  sufficient  to  strain  the 
stock  through  a  clean  cloth,  but  for  clear  soup  it  must  be 
cleared  as  well  as  strained.  — Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 

TO  CLEAR  SOUP  STOCK. 

Place  the  stock  in  a  saucepan  over  a  brisk  fire.  When 
boiling,  add  the  white  of  an  egg  to  each  quart  of  stock,  pro- 
ceeding as  follows:  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  in  a 
little  water,  then  add  a  little  hot  stock,  beat  to  a  froth,  pour 


SOUPS.  53 


gradually  into  the  pan,  then  beat  the  whole  hard  and  long. 
Allow  it  to  boil  up  once,  and  immediately  remove  and  strain 
through  a  thin  flannel  cloth.  Rice,  sago,  pearled  barley,  ver- 
micelli and  macaroni  are  desirable  additions  to  meat  soups; 
the  first  three  are  used  in  the  proportion  of  one-half  teacup 
to  three  quarts  of  soup;  wash  and  soak.  Rice  requires  one- 
half  hour  boiling  in  the  soup.  Sago  cooks  in  fifteen  minutes. 
Barley  should  be  soaked  over  night,  boiled  alone  in  a  little 
water  till  tender  and  added  to  the  soup  just  before  serving. 
Vermicelli  and  macaroni,  broken  and  washed  thoroughly, 
should  be  boiled  in  soup  one-half  hour.  Rolled  oatmeal  is  a 
good  substitute  for  rice. 


TOMATO   BISQUE. 

1  quart  tomatoes,  |  teaspoon  soda, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  quart  milk, 

I  teaspoon  pepper.  Little  butter. 

Stew  the  tomatoes,  add  the  pepper,  salt,  and  butter. 
When  done,  strain,  turn  back  into  the  kettle,  and  let  just 
come  to  a  boil;  stir  in  the  soda  and  add  the  milk.  Let  the 
soup  cook  a  few  minutes  and  serve  inmiediately. 

— Mrs.  Carrie  L.  Oliver. 


54  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

CREAM    OF  TOMATO    SOUP. 

To  one  can  of  tomatoes  (or  four  large  raw  ones)  add 
one  quart  of  water  and  one  medium  sized  onion,  sliced  fine. 
Let  simmer  twenty  minutes,  then  strain.  Cream  together  one 
large  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  of  flour,  stir  into  the  soup 
kettle  and  then  add  the  strained  tomatoes  slowly,  stirring 
constantly.  Season  with  one  teaspoon  each  of  sugar,  salt, 
pepper  and  celery  salt.  Just  before  serving,  add  one-half  cup 
of  sweet  cream.  — Mrs.  S.  S.  Barney. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Slice  three  potatoes,  four  tomatoes,  add  water,  tablespoon 
of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  one  hour;  then  stir 
in  yolk  of  one  egg  and  serve.  — Mrs.  D.  T.  Keeley. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Simmer  one  can  tomatoes,  one  quart  water,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  cloves,  two  allspice  and  two  peppercorns  for 
one  and  one-half  hours.  Fry  one  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 
and  one  tablespoon  chopped  onion  in  butter,  the  size  of  an 
egg,  until  a  nice  brown.  Add  to  the  above,  boil  up  and 
strain.  Serve  with  a  few  dice  of  toast  in  each  dish.  Toast : — 
Butter  a  few  slices  of  bread  on  each  side,  cut  into  dice,  and 
brown  in  the  oven  while  the  soup  is  cooking. 

— Mrs.  Frances  E.  Ott. 


SOUPS.  55 


TOMATO  SOUP. 

^  cup  butter,  IJ  cups  onions, 

2  tablespoons  flour,  1  pint  raw  potatoes, 

1  quart  boiling  water,        1  tablespoon  cider  vinegar, 
1  quart  ripe  tomatoes.         Pepper  and  salt. 
Brown  butter  and  flour,  add  water,  tomatoes  cut  fine, 
onions  chopped  fine,  and  potatoes  sliced ;  cook  till  tender. 

—Mrs.  J.  A.  S. 

VEAL  SOUP. 

Boil  a  couple  of  veal  shanks  and  a  piece  off  the  neck  in 
two  quarts  of  water;  add  parsley,  onion,  and  asparagus,  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Strain  and  thicken  with  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Very  nice  for  the  sick.  — ^Mrs.  James  Ftiedlander. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Put  a  soup  bone  in  cold  water  at  eight  o'clock  in  the 
morning,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  for  three  hours,  skimming 
occasionally,  removing  every  bit  of  fat.  At  ten  o'clock  put 
over  the  vegetables,  cut  fine,  in  another  kettle.  Use  cabbage, 
carrots,  onions,  one  small  turnip,  a  haxidful  of  green  peas 
if  in  season,  and  a  few  celery  leaves,  or  roots  of  celery.  About 
half  past  eleven  strain  soup  from  beef  into  the  kettle  of  vege- 
tables, and  put  in  a  handful  of  oatmeal,  or  a  few  noodles  or 


56  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

dumplings.  Cut  meat  in  little  squares,  add  to  soup,  and, 
just  before  serving,  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg.  About 
fifteen  minutes  before  soup  is  done,  add  one  tomato,  cut  up, 
and  a  few  chopped  parsley  leaves.  Season  both,  the  soup 
and  vegetables,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne. 
Remove  celery  leaves  before  serving.  This  soup  is  very  nice 
warmed  over.  — Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 

WATER    SOUP    FOR   INVALIDS. 

Cut  a  little  stale  bread  into  thin  slices,  put  in  a  bowl, 
add  a  lump  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  a  little  salt; 
pour  boiling  water  over,  cover  closely  for  a  minute,  then  add 
a  tablespoon  of  sweet  cream  and  serve. 

—Mrs.  C.  H.  Miller. 

BREAD   DUMPLINGS. 
When  bread  is  ready  to  mould  into  loaves,  cut  off  pieces 
the  right  size  for  dumplings,  and  drop  without  moulding, 
into  boiling  soup.    If  not  crowded  in  the  kettle  and  the  cover 
is  kept  on,  they  will  be  nice  and  light  when  done. 

CROUTONS. 

Cut  two  slices  of  bread  into  small  dice.  Have  some  but- 
ter hot  in  a  saucepan,  throw  in  the  dice  and  brown  nicely  on 
both  sides.    Serve  with  split  pea,  bean,  and  potato  soups. 

— Mrs.  James  Friedlander. 


DUMPLINGS.  57 


DUMPLINGS. 

Boil  one  cup  of  milk  with  one  big  spoon  of  butter;  then 
stir  in,  gradually,  dry  flour  until  the  mixture  cleaves  from 
the  pan  in  a  ball;  then  add  two  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  one 
teaspoon  sugar.  Mix  well  and  drop  from  spoon  in  boiling 
soup.  —Mrs.  Fred  Haase. 


DUMPLINGS. 

2  cups  sour  cream,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

1  teaspoon  salt,  der, 

Flour  to  mix  as  thick  as  possible  with  a  spoon;  drop 
in  boiling  soup  from  a  tablespoon. 

— Mrs.  G.  W.  Jones. 


DUMPLINGS  (Fine). 

^  eggs,  1  heaping  teaspoon 

1  cup  milk,  baking  powder, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  Flour. 

Stir  very  stiff  with  flour  and  drop,  in  little  balls,  from 

the  spoon  into  boiling  soup.  Half  this  recipe  will  serve  a 

family  of  four.  —Mrs.  C.  W.  Smith. 


58  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


DUMPLINGS  FOR  SOUP. 

Stir  piece  of  butter,  size  of  walnut,  to  a  cream;  add  a 
little  salt,  little  grated  nutmeg  and  one  egg.  Beat  well  and 
add  two  good  tablespoons  toasted  bread  crumbs.  Let  stand 
for  a  short  time,  then  mould  to  size  of  hickory  nuts  and  put 
in  boiling  soup.     Let  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 


EGG  BALLS. 

Mash  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  half  as  much 
hot  boiled  potato,  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  cayenne  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste,  and  one  yolk  of  egg,  raw ;  then  flour  the 
hands,  mould  into  balls  size  of  cherries,  and  drop  in  boiling 
soup  just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 

— Cora  Green. 


FAEINA    DUMPLINGS. 

Boil  one  cup  of  soup,  and  one-fourth  cup  of  farina ;  then 
remove  from  stove,  add  one  egg  and  nutmeg  to  taste;  drop 
into  soup  from  a  tablespoon  and  boil  five  minutes  before 
serving.  — Mrs.  D.  T.  Keeley. 


DUMPLINGS.  59 


LITTLE   CRACKER   DUMPLINGS    FOR   SOUP. 

Stir  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg,  with  two  eggs,  then  add 
six  soda  crackers,  rolled  fine,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg.  Roll  the  dumplings  with  a  little  flour,  drop  into 
soup  and  boil  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Rolfs. 


LIVER   DUMPLINGS. 

To  one  calf s  liver  chopped  very  fine,  add  two  beaten 
eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  pinch  of  allspice  and  nutmeg 
(or  a  little  parsley),  flour  or  bread  crumbs  to  stiffen.  Drop 
in  boiling  salted  water,  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time.  Serve  with 
drawn  butter  sauce.  —Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 


MARROW  BALLS  FOR  SOUP. 

Chop  the  marrow  from  a  large  soup  bone,  stir  into  it  a 
well  beaten  egg,  two  tablespoons  cold  water  or  soup  stock,  a 
dash  of  nutmeg,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt,  and  a  large 
biscuit,  or  roll,  soaked  in  sweet  milk,  and  chopped;  mix  to 
the  consistency  of  dumplings.  Drop  from  a  spoon  into  the 
hot  soup,  or  they  mnv  be  rolled  in  the  hand  first  to  give  them 
a  round  shape.  — Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 


60  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

MEAT    DUMPLINGS. 

To  five  cents  worth  of  chopped  beef  add  beaten  yolk  of 
one  eggf  salt,  pepper,  one  large  boiled  potato  (grated),  beaten 
white  of  one  egg,  and  bread,  soaked  in  water ;  form  into  balls, 
drop  into  boiling  soup.  When  they  come  to  the  top  they  are 
done  and  must  be  served  at  once. 

— Mrs.  Herman  Gerlach. 


NOODLES   FOR  SOUP. 

Mix  one  or  two  eggs  with  flour  until  too  stiff  to  stir  with 
a  spoon;  then  put  the  dough  on  the  moulding  board  and 
knead  until  it  is  quite  stiff.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  possible. 
When  dry,  cut  into  strips,  place  one  above  the  other,  cut  as 
fine  as  possible  and  spread  lightly  to  dry.    Boil  five  minutea 

— Hortense  Weil. 


POTATO   DUMPLINGS. 

To  two  quarts  of  boiled  potatoes,  grated,  add  one  egg, 
one  cup  farina,  two  cups  of  bread  cubes  fried  in  butter,  and 
one-third  of  a  small  onion ;  form  into  balls  and  steam  twenty- 
eight  minutes.  — Mrs.  Charles  A.  Silberzalin. 


DUMPLINGS  61 


POTATO   DUMPLINGS. 

To  about  a  dozen  cold  boiled  potatoes,  grated,  add  four 
well  beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  enough  flour  to 
form  into  round  balls.  Do  not  make  dough  too  stiff.  Boil 
in  salt  water  about  twenty  minutes  and  serve  with  saurbraten 
or  browned  butter.  Water  must  be  boiling  when  dumplings 
are  put  in.  — Mrs.  A.  B.  Liebermann. 


POTATO  DUMPLINGS. 

Boil  six  medium-sized  potatoes  in  their  jackets,  when 
done,  peel  while  hot,  mash  fine  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Cut  one  slice  of  bread  in  fine  cubes  and  fry  quite 
brown  in  pork  drippings  or  butter;  add  the  fried  cubes  and 
one  unbeaten  egg  to  the  potatoes,  stir  thoroughly,  then  add 
flour  until  stiff  enough  to  handle,  mould  into  six  dumplings, 
drop  into  boiling  hot  salted  water  or  soup  and  boil  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Be  sure  they  do  not  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle  and  keep  the  water  boiling.  Nice  served  with  browned 
roast-pork  gravy  seasoned  with  onions. 

— Mrs.  G.  Knoller. 


62  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

SCALDED   DUMPLINGS    FOR   SOUP. 

Boil  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  butter,  little  mace,  salt  and  sugar  until  it  leaves  the  sides 
of  the  dish.  When  cool,  add  three  eggs.  Take  pieces,  size 
of  a  bean,  and  drop  in  boiling  soup. 

— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 

SCHWAMM   DUMPLINGS. 

Melt  butter,  the  size  of  two  eggs,  in  a  dish ;  stir  in  four 
tablespoons  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one-half  cup  boiling 
water  or  stock;  stir  briskly  until  it  cleaves  from  the  sides 
of  the  dish;  then  add  three  eggs,  one  ait  a  time,  stir  well,  and 
drop  from  teaspoon  in  boiling  soup.  Boil  about  fifteen  min- 
utes. — Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 


Salads. 


"Some  cold  salad  is  before  thee  set, 
Fall  on  and  try  thy  appetite  to  whet." 


CKEAM  DRESSING  FOR  SALAD. 

3  eggs  (beaten),  1  teaspoon  salt, 

6  tablespoons  cream,  1  teaspoon  mustard, 

3  tablespoons  melted  J  teaspoon  pepper, 

butter,  1  teacup  vinegar. 

Beat  ingredients  thoroughly,  heat,  and  stir  constantly 
until  thickened;  when  cool,  mix  with  salad. 

— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 

DRESSING. 

2  egg  yolks,  1  teaspoon  vinegar, 

^  teaspoon  mustard,  1  white  of  egg, 

1  teaspoon  sugar.  Little  salt  and  red  pep- 

^  pint  olive  oil,  per. 

Put  3^olks  in  cold  soup  plate;  add  mustard,  salt,  pepper 
and  sugar;  beat  together  well,  then  add  olive  oil,  a  few  drops 


64  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

at  a  time,  until  as  thick  as  butter ;  while  beating  add  vinegar, 
little  at  a  time.  A  little  Worcestershire  sauce  improves  it. 
Add  beaten  white  of  egg  last.  Line  bottom  of  salad  dish 
with  lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

— Mrs.  C.  A.  Adams. 

EXCELLENT   SALAD  DRESSING. 

Boil  five  tablespoons  vinegar  and  stir  into  it  the  well 
beaten  yolks  of  five  eggs;  take  from  the  stove  as  soon  as  it 
thickens.  While  hot  add  a  piece  of  butter,  size  of  a  small  egg, 
and  one  teaspoon  of  a  mixture  composed  of  five  teaspoons  salt, 
one  heaping  teaspoon  mustard,  one  level  teaspoon  cayenne. 
When  cold,  add  one-half  pint  of  cream,  whipped  stiff,  and 
juice  of  half  a  lemon.  This  is  most  excellent  for  salmon  salad 
composed  of  equal  quantities  of  canned  salmon  and  celery. 

— Mrs.  N.  B.  Lawson. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

2  egg  yolks,  1  lemon  (juice). 

i  pint  olive  oil, 

Beat  yolks  thoroughly  with  egg  beater,  add  lemon  juice, 
then  gradually  add  the  oil  (about  half  a  teaspoon  at  a  time) 
and  beat  thoroughly  until  all  oil  is  used.  This  recipe  makes 
about  one  pint  of  dressing.  — Mrs.  A.  P.  Chapman. 


SALADS.  65 

MAYONNAISE   DEESSING. 

2  egg  yolks,  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard, 

2  saltspoons  salt,  ^  pint  olive  oil, 

1  saltspoon  pepper  or  3  tablespoons  cider  vine- 

pinch  cayenne,  gar. 

To  prevent  curdling  beat  with  wooden  spoon  the  yolks, 
salt,  pepper,  and  mustard  together  before  adding  the  oil, 
which  must  be  stirred  in  gradually  a  few  drops  at  a  time, 
taking  care  to  blend  each  portion  with  the  egg  before  adding 
more,  stirring  constantly  until  a  thick  paste  is  formed  and 
the  mixture  has  a  glossy  instead  of  a  velvety  appearance ;  then 
add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  stirring  all  the  time,  until  it  is 
the  consistency  of  thick  cream ;  stir  in  more  oil  in  drops  until 
mayonnaise  is  stiff  again,  when  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  should 
be  beaten  in.  So  continue  alternating  until  all  oil  is  used, 
adding  vinegar  rather  cautiously  at  last,  so  that  when  the 
mayonnaise  is  finished  it  will  be  stiff  enough  to  remain  on 
top  of  the  salad.  The  dressing  should  be  stirred  one  way  to 
prevent  curdling.  Add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  with  the 
vinegar.  The  oily  flavor  is  entirely  lost  in  combination  with 
the  raw  egg.  Fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  are  required  for  put- 
ting the  ingredients  together.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to 
add  too  much  oil  at  first  or  the  mayonnaise  will  curdle.  When 
this  happens,  beat  the  yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs  on  another 


66  WEST   BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

plate,  add  to  them  the  curdled  mayonnaise  by  degrees,  and 
finish  by  adding  more  oil  and  vinegar,  or  lemon  juice.  The 
danger  of  curdling  is  less  if  the  addition  of  vinegar  is  begun 
when  only  a  little  oil  has  been  used.  After  all  ingredients  are 
thoroughly  mixed  the  addition  of  a  cup  of  whipped  cream 
enriches  the  dressing.  This  sauce  keeps  well  if  bottled  and 
corked  with  a  glass  stopper,  and  it  may  be  made  at  any  time 
in  advance  when  yolks  are  left  over  from  baking.  In  sum- 
mer, place  oil  and  eggs  in  cold  place  half  an  hour  before 
making.  The  well  beaten  white  of  an  egg  may  be  added  to 
the  dressing  just  before  using.  Butter  may  be  used  instead 
of  oil  in  any  mayonnaise  dressing  by  first  creaming  it,  and 
adding  slowly  a  well  beaten  egg.  This  makes  a  nice  dressing 
for  fish.  —Mrs.  H.  D.  B.  Dustin. 


MAYONNAISE   DRESSING. 

2  egg  yolks,  1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  vinegar,         ^  teaspoon  salt, 
2  tablespoons  lemon  i  teaspoon  cayenne, 

1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  pint  olive  oil. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  well,  add  vinegar,  lemon  juice  and 
other  ingredients,  lastly  the  oil,  a  few  drops  at  a  time. 

— Mrs.  A.  M.  Bo  wen. 


SALADS.  67 


PLAIN   SALAD  DRESSING. 
}  cup  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

J  cup  cold  water,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  eggs  (well  beaten),  1  even  tablespoon  mustard, 

1  teaspoon  butter,  A  dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Cook  slowly  until  thick,  then  remove  immediately  from 
the  fire  to  avoid  curdling.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

SALAD   DRESSING. 
1  cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  mustard, 

f  cup  butter,  1  tablespoon  salt, 

i  cup  sugar  (scant).  Little  red  pepper, 

8  yolks  of  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  cream. 

Heat  vinegar,  sugar  and  butter  in  double  boiler  until 
butter  is  melted;  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  and  seasoning; 
boil  until  thick,  stirring  constantly;  then  strain  and  when 
cold,  just  before  using,  add  the  cup  of  cream  or  enough  to 
make  the  right  consistency.  Will  keep  several  days  before 
the  cream  is  added.  — Mrs.  Emil  C.  Pors. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 
1  cup  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

4  tablespoons  sugar.  Pinch  of  red  pepper, 

6  yolks  of  eggs,  1  cup  butter, 

1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  cup  sweet  cream. 


68  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

Put  vinegar  and  sugar  on  stove  to  boil.  Stir  the  yolks 
in  a  bowl  with  the  ground  mustard,  salt  and  pepper.  When 
vinegar  boils  pour  over  the  yolks,  beating  constantly.  Place 
on  the  stove  and  let  boil  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Take  from  stove,  add  the  butter,  while  hot  and  the  cream, 
when  cold.  — Mrs.  Ernst  Franckenberg. 

SALAD   DRESSING. 

§  cup  vinegar,  i  cup  butter, 

•J  cup  water,  4  yolks  of  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  mustard,        2  tablespoons  sugar, 
i  teaspoon  cayenne,  1  tablespoon  cream. 

Put  vinegar,  water^  Colman's  mustard  and  cayenne  pep- 
per (made  smooth  in  vinegar)  over  the  fire  in  double  boiler; 
add  butter  and  when  melted,  add  yolks,  sugar  and  cream,  then 
cook  to  the  consistency  of  custard. 

— Mrs.  Joseph  Ott. 

SALAD   DEESSING. 

2  eggs  (well  beaten),  2  saltspoons  salt, 

4  teaspoons  olive  oil  or  |  teaspoon  sugar, 

melted  butter,  4  teaspoons  cream  or  milk, 

2  teaspoons  mustard  1  cup  vinegar, 

mixed  with  the  oil.  Pinch  of  cayenne  pepper. 


SALADS.  6.^ 

Stir  ingredients  together  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler, 
stirring  often.  This  dressing  may  be  used  for  every  kind  of 
salad.  The  remnants  of  cold  veal  make  a  nice  salad  pre- 
pared with  an  equal  quantity  of  celery  or  white  cabbage;  or 
the  veal  is  nice  alone  served  with  the  dressing. 

— Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 

SALAD   DRESSING. 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  3  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  mustard,  1  teacup  vinegar, 

J  tablespoon  salt,  1  teacup  cream. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 
Stir  the  sugar,  mustard,  salt  and  butter  together,  beat 
in  the  eggs  half  light,  stir  in  the  boiling  vinegar,  put  on. 
stove,  cook  and. stir  until  creamy;  when  cool  add  the  cream. 

— Mrs.  0.  B.  Coombe. 

SALAD   DRESSING. 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  flour,  1  teaspoon  mustard, 

1  cup  milk  or  water,  f  cup  vinegar. 

1  yolk  of  egg, 
Melt  butter  in  stew  pan,  add  flour ;  cook,  but  not  brown, 
then  add  milk  or  water.  Beat  yolk,  sugar  and  mustard  to- 
gether, add  vinegar  and  stir  into  the  sauce  in  the  stew  pan. 
When  cool,  pour  over  chopped  potato  and  onion,  salted  and 
peppered  well.  — Mrs.  Hobson. 


70 


WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


SALAD   DRESSING. 


3  tablespoons  melted 

butter, 
3  tablespoons  sugar, 
J  cup  cream, 


1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  teaspoon  mustard, 
^  cup  vinegar, 

2  eggs. 


Beat  all  together  except  the  vinegar  and  eggs,  cook  in  a 
double  boiler;  when  done  remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  well 
beaten  eggs  and  while  cooling  add  the  vinegar. 

— Mrs.  Anna  Corr. 


SALAD   DRESSING. 


9  egg  yolks, 
I  cup  melted  butter, 
7  tablespoons  olive  oil, 
4  teaspoons  salt. 
Dash  of  red  pepper, 


1  heaping  teaspoon  mustard 

dissolved  in 
I  cup  vinegar, 
1  lemon  (juice), 
1  cup  cream. 


Stir  all  except  cream  together,  cook  in  double  boiler,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  When  ready  for  use  add  the  whipped 
cream.  Nice  for  chicken  salad  (to  the  chicken  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  celery)  and  for  fish  salad. 

— Mrs.  W.  J.  Farnsworth. 


SALADS.  71 


SALAD   DRESSING. 
i  cup  vinegar,  |  teaspoon  mustard, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

1  teaspoon  pepper,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  egg  (yolk), 

Bodl  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  ground  mustard; 
then  add  the  flour  and  butter  stirred  to  a  paste  and  boil  all 
together.     Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  well  beaten  yolk. 

— Mrs.  Victor  Husting. 

SALAD   DRESSING. 

2  yolks  (hard  boiled),        ^  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
2  tablespoons  white  2  eggs  (well  beaten), 

sugar,  3  tablespoons  melted  butter, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  J  cup  vinegar, 

1  teaspoon  mustard,  f  cup  thick  sour  cream. 

Mash  yolks,  add  sugar,  salt,  mustard  and  pepper;  when 
thoroughly  mixed  add  eggs,  butter  and  vinegar;  cook  in  dou- 
ble boiler  until  it  thickens,  then  remove  from  the  fire  and 
when  cold  add  cream. 

SOUR  CREAM  DRESSING. 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream,  2  tablespoons  vinegar, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  Little  cayenne. 
1  lemon  (juice). 


72  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

Set  cream  on  ice  for  several  hours.  When  ready  to  serve, 
beat  it  with  an  egg  beater  to  a  stiff  white  foam,  then  add  the 
other  ingredients  in  the  order  given  and  beat  two  minutes 
longer.     This  is  a  nice  dressing  for  vegetables. 

— A.  Pries. 

SALAD   DRESSING. 

^  cup  milk,  4  egg  yolks, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  J  cup  cream, 

1  scant  tablespoon  J  cup  lemon  juice, 

mustard. 
Boil  the  milk,  butter  and  mustard  together,  then  pour  it 
over  the  well  beaten  yolks,  mixing  thoroughly ;  when  cold  add 
cream  and  lemon  juice  and  pour  over  about  two  dozen  boiled, 
sliced,  salted  potatoes.  — Mrs.  H.  J.  Maitland. 

SALAD   DRESSING. 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  ^  cup  vinegar, 

1  tablespoon  Colman's         6  egg  .yolks,  beaten, 

mustard,  1  cup  sour  cream  con- 

^  cup  melted  butter,  taining  pinch  of  soda. 

Stir  the  sugar  and  mustard  to  a  paste  in  a  very  little 
water,  add  the  other  ingredients,  mix  thoroughly  and  cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick.    Do  not  cook  too  long. 

— Mrs.  Gilbert  Huson. 


SALADS.  73 


SUPERIOR  SALAD  DRESSING. 

2  eggs  beaten  well  with       4  tablespoons  vinegar, 
1  cup  sweet  cream,  Pinch  of  cayenne, 

1  teaspoon  raw  mustard,      Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Beat  all  thoroughly  and  boil  in  a  double  boiler.     This 
salad  dressing  is  equal  to  any  bottle  dressing  on  the  market. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

i  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  mustard, 

i  cup  vinegar,  i  teaspoon  salt. 

3  egg  yolks. 

Beat  well  together,  cook  until  thick  as  custard.  Will 
keep  for  months.    When  ready  to  serve,  add  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  Louise  M.  Parks. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Mix  four  tablespoons  sugar,  one  level  tablespoon  flour, 
one  level  tablespoon  dry  mustard,  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper, 
and  one  teaspoon  salt  together,  then  add  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter, one  well-beaten  egg  and  two-thirds -cup  vinegar;  boil  till 
thick.  — Mrs.  Manley. 

APPLE   SALAD. 

4  large  apples,  1  cup  walnut  meats. 
1  bunch  celery. 

Cut  apples  in  small  cubes  and  celery  in  small  pieces,  mix 
and  serve  with  the  following 


74 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


DRESSING. 


i  cup  sugar, 
§  cup  vinegar, 
1  large  tablespoon 
butter, 
Boil  till  thick  as  cream. 


i  teaspoon  white  pepper, 

1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

— Mrs.  A.  L.  Crump. 


BEET   SALAD. 

Cut  into  half-inch  cubes  equal  parts  of  hot  potatoes 
boiled  in  their  jackets,  and  hot  boiled  beets,  and  pour  over 
them  a  dressing  made  of  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
mashed  to  a  paste  with  two  even  teaspoons  dry  mustard,  four 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  vinegar  to  mske  the  consistency  of 
cream ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Chop  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
for  the  top  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

BEET   SALAD. 

Chop  cold  boiled  beets  and  pour  over  them  a  plain  salad 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


CABBAGE  SALAD. 


2  quarts  cabbage 
(chapped), 

1  medium  sized  onion 

(chopped  fine), 

2  or  3  yolks  of  eggs 

(well  beaten), 


1  cup  vinegar, 

6  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs 
(chopped  fine), 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
1  teaspoon  mustard, 

Salt  and  sugar  to  taste. 
-Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 


SALADS. 


CABBAGE  SALAD. 

One  small  head  of  cabbage,  chopped  fine,  seasoned  with 
salt  to  taste. 

1  eggf  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

1  small  cup  thick  |  cup   (half  vinegar, 

sour  cream,  half  water), 

1  teaspoon  mustard.  Pepper  to  taste. 

Cook  until  the  mixture  just  comes  to  a  boil,  then  pour 
hot  over  the  cabbage.  — Mrs.  C.  M.  R.  Bedell. 

CABBAGE  AND  BANANA  SALAD. 

1  head  cabbage;  4  bananas;  1  cup  peanuts, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  f  tablespoon  sweet 

1  teaspoon  flour,  cream, 

1  teaspoon  mustard,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  i  tablespoon  vinegar. 

1,  Qgg, 
Mix  the  dry  ingredients  with  the.  butter,  then  add  the 
beaten  egg,  cream  and  vinegar,  cook  over  hot  water  until  thick. 
Chop  cabbage  fine,  cut  bananas  in  small  pieces,  roll  the  pea- 
nuts, mix  thoroughly,  then  add  the  dressing. 

—Mrs.  G.  Rahm. 
CELERY   SALAD. 

Good  sized  celery  roots,        |  cup  water, 
4  cup  almond  meats,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

^  cup  vinegar,  i  cup  sweet  cream. 

Clean  the  celery  roots  and  boil  until  tender.  When  cool, 
cut  in  small  dice-like  pieces  and  add  the  chopped  almond 
meats.  Pour  the  vinegar  and  water  over  the  mixture,  add 
sugar,  and,  just  before  serving,  add  the  cream.    Very  nice. 

— Mrs.  A.  B.  Liebermann. 


76  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CELERY   SALAD. 

Chop  or  cut  white  crisp  celery,  sprinkle  with  fine  salt; 
line  salad  bowl  with  lettuce  leaves,  pile  the  chopped  celery  in 
the  center  and  pour  a  mayonnaise  dressing  over. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

CELERY   ROOT    SALAD. 

Peel  and  slice  root,  one-quarter  inch  slices;  place  in 
granite  pan  with  water  (one-third),  and  vinegar  (two-thirds) 
enough  to  cover;  salt  to  taste;  add  one  tablespoon  sugar.  Let 
boil,  stirring  occasionally.  Do  not  let  the  celery  become  soft. 
Place  all  in  a  jar  and  let  stand  several  days  before  using. 
Use  juice  for  meats  and  salads. 

— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 

CHICKEN   SALAD. 

White  meat  of  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken  or  turkey. 

1  same  bulk  chopped  1  teaspoon  pepper, 
celery,  1  teaspoon  made  mustard, 

2  hard  boiled  eggs,  3  teaspoons  salad  oil, 

1  raw  egg,  2  teaspoons  white  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teacup  vinegar. 

Mince  the  meat  well,  removing  every  scrap  of  fat,  gristle 
and  skin;  cut  the  celery  into  bits  half  an  inch  long,  or  less; 


SALADS.  77 


mix  and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place  while  the  dressing  is  pre- 
pared. Rub  the  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  fine  powder,  add  the  salt, 
pepper  and  sugar,  then  the  oil,  mixing  thoroughly,  putting 
in  but  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  Add  mustard,  let  mixture  stand 
while  the  raw  egg  is  whipped  to  a  froth.  Beat  this  into 
the  dressing  and  pour  in  the  vinegar,  spoonful  at  a  time, 
whipping  the  dressing  well.  Sprinkle  a  little  dry  salt  over 
meat  and  celery,  toss  lightly  with  a  silver  fork,  pour  the  dress- 
ing over,  tossing  and  mixing  until  the  bottom  of  the  mass  is 
as  well  saturated  as  the  top;  turn  into  the  salad  bowl,  and 
garnish  with  whites  of  eggs  (boiled  hard  and  cut  into  rings 
or  flowers),  and  sprigs  of  bleached  celery  tops. 

— Mrs.  Joseph  Ott. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

1  chicken,  salted  and  Celery  and  lettuce, 
boiled  tender,                    2  hard  boiled  eggs 

2  large  pickled  cu-  (sliced), 
cumbers. 

Let  chicken  cool  in  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled.  When 
cold,  cut  in  half-inch  pieces,  rejecting  all  fat,  gristle  and  skin. 
Use  two  parts  chicken,  one  part  celery  and  one  part  lettuce; 
the  celery  and  cucumbers  should  be  cut  with  a  knife  in  same 
sized  pieces  as  chicken,  and  the  lettuce  chopped  fine.  Olives 
may  be  used  instead  of  cucumbers,  if  preferred.  Mix  in- 
gredients together  thoroughly  and  serve  with  the  following 


78  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

DRESSING. 

•J  pint  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  white  pepper, 

Butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  eggs.  Pinch  of  cayenne, 

J  tablespoon  mustard,  1  lemon  (juice). 

1  tablespoon  sugar. 

Place  a  sauce  pan  on  the  stove  containing  the  vinegar 
and  butter.  Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  add  mustard,  sugar, 
pepper  and  salt ;  when  thoroughly  beaten  together  pour  slowly 
into  the  vinegar  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  be  careful  not  to 
cook  too  long  or  the  eggs  will  curdle.  Both  salad  and  dress- 
ing may  be  made  the  day  before  using.  Just  before  serving, 
pour  dressing  over  salad,  mixing  it  lightly  with  silver  fork, 
adding  cayenne,  lemom  juice  and  more  salt  and  vinegar  as 
needed.  The  dish  may  be  tastefully  garnished  with  sliced 
lemons,  boiled  beets  sliced  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  hard 
boiled  eggs,  and  small  lettuce  leaves,  celery  or  parsley,  com- 
bining any  two  or  more  as  fancy  dictates. 

—Mrs.  H.  D.  B.  Dustin. 

EGG  SALAD. 

Cut  one  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs  into  quarters,  lengthwise, 
and  pour  over  them  any  preferred  dressing.    Serve  on  lettuce. 

— ^Agnes  M.  Haase. 


SALADS.  79 

FOR  MAYONNAISE  CHICKEN   SALAD. 

6  eggs  (whites),  Celery  and  cabbage  chopped 

1  chicken  boiled,  very  fine. 

Let  the  chicken  cool  in  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled. 
When  oold,  chop  the  meat  and  the  hard  boiled  whites  of  the 
eggs  moderately  fine.  Use  equal  quantities  of  chicken,  oelery 
and  cabbage.  Mix  ingredients  well,  and  serve  with  the  fol- 
lowing 

DRESSING. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  6  hard  boiled  eggs  (yolks), 
2  tablespoons  sugar,  allow 

1  teaspoon  mustard,  2  tablespoons  vinegar  and 

White  pepper  and  salt  1  tablespoon  salad  oil  to 

to  taste,  each  quart  of  salad. 

Mash  the  yolks  fine,  add  butter,  sugar,  mustard,  pepper 
and  salt;  mix  well,  then  add  oil  and  vinegar  three  or 
four  drops  at  a  time,  alternating  as  in  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Mix  salad  with  part  of  the  dressing,  arrange  in  a  smooth 
mound  on  a  flat  dish,  pour  remainder  of  dressing  over  and 
garnish  with  a  little  bouquet  of  white  celery  leaves  on  the  top, 
encircle  with  rows  of  capers  and  border  with  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  — Mrs.  H.  D.  B.  Dustin. 


80  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

HAM   SALAD. 

Chop  some  boiled  ham  fine,  add  the  heart  and  inside 
leaves  of  a  head  of  lettuce.  Pour  over  it  a  dressing  made  as 
follows : 

1  tablespoon  salt,  J  pint  vinegar, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  3  yolks  of  eggs  (well 

1  teaspoon  sugar,  beaten). 

1  teaspoon  mustard. 

Boil  until  creamy;  when  cold,  pour  over  the  ham  and 
lettuce  and  mix  well;  then  stir  in  a  cup  of  sweet  cream. 

— Mrs.  G.  A.  Heidner. 

HANOVERIAISr  SALAD. 
3  medium  sized  beets,  1  small  onion, 

2  cooked  potatoes,  Several  stalks  celery. 
i  pound  cooked  ham. 

Chop  ingredients  fine,  mix  with  cream  dressing;  serve  on 
a  bed  of  lettuce  and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

— Mrs.  A.  M.  Boweu. 

HORSEEADISH   SALAD. 

1  quart  raw  chopped  1  tablespoon  salt, 

cabbage,  1  teaspoon  black  pepper, 

1  quart  boiled  chopped  1  teaspoon  red  pepper, 
beets,  1  teacup  grated  horseradish, 

2  cups  sugar, 

Mix  thoroughly,  cover  with  cold  vinegar  and  keep  from 
the  air.  If  preferred,  the  vinegar  and  sugar  may  be  cooked 
together  before  adding  to  the  salad.  — Mrs.  C.  H.  Schleifer. 


SALADS.  81 


HERRING    SALAD. 

Take  six  nice  Holland  herring  and  soak  over  night. 
Clean  well  and  put  in  a  chopping  bowl  being  careful  to  re- 
move all  bones.  Add  four  large  apples,  peeled  and  sliced,  one 
cup  walnut  meats,  two  boiled  potatoes  and  enough  tender 
boiled  beets  to  give  a  red  color.  Chop  all  together  very  fine. 
Add  one  tablespoon  sugar  and  enough  vinegar  and  water, 
mixed,  to  thoroughly  moisten  the  ingredients;  garnish  with 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  olives.       — Mrs.  A.  B.  Liebermann. 

HERRING    SALAD. 

Soak  four  herring  over  night,  then  remove  the  skin  and 
bones  and  chop  the  herring  fine.     Add 

1  boiled  chicken,  1  small  apple, 

i  pound  boiled  ham,  Several  pickled  cucumbers, 

2  cups  boiled  potatoes,        Several  slices  boiled  beets. 
4  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Cut  ingredients  into  very  small  squares.  For  the  dress- 
ing take 

1  teaspoon  mustard,  Pinch  of  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  chicken  oil.      Salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
Soft  roe  of  the  herring.      Vinegar  to  moisten  well. 
Reserve  some  of  the  egg,  beet  and  pickle  for  decorating 
the  salad,  chopping  them  very  fine.  — Emma  Pick. 


82  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Put  one  pound  of  canned  lobster  into  a  colander  and 
pour  cold  water  over  it  until  thoroughly  washed.  Pick  into 
medium  sized  pieces  and  cut  into  it  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  a 
little  lettuce,  if  you  have  it,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  a  very  little 
vinegar.  Mix  well  a  few  minutes  before  using,  then  cover 
with  dressing.  — Mns.  C.  A.  Adf 


MEAT  SALAD. 

Cook  two  pounds  from  leg  of  veal  and  one  pound  lean 
pork;  when  cool,  add  two  pickles,  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  two 
lettuce  leaves,  two  olives,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  celery ;  chop 
together.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing  on  individual  let- 
tuce leaves.  — Mrs.  Gerlach. 


OYSTER   SALAD. 

Parboil  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  adding  pepper 
and  salt.  Skim  out,  and  when  very  cold,  cut  each  into  two 
or  three  pieces,  according  to  the  size  of  the  oyster.  Allow 
two  cups  of  chopped  celery  to  each  cup  and  a  half  of  oysters. 
Serve  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 

— ^Mrs,  Carrie  L.  Oliver. 


SALADS.  83 

POTATO    SALAD. 

Two  dozen  small  potatoes,  boiled  in  jackets.  When  cold, 
peel  and  slice  very  thin  and  mix  with  them  one  onion  minced 
fine.  For  the  dressing  let  one  cup  vinegar  and  one  large 
tablespoon  butter  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  together  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  black  pepper,  one 
teaspoon  Cblman's  mustard,  two  tablespoons  sugar;  add  a 
little  vinegar  if  necessary.  Pour  the  boiling  vinegar  into  this, 
stirring  well,  so  that  it  will  look  smooth,  then  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  pour  over  the  potatoes.  Garnish 
with  slices  of  cold  boiled  eggs  and  parsley. 

— Mrs.  Frances  E.  Ott. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Boil  small  potatoes  in  their  jackets  and,  when  cold,  slice 
and  moisten  with  vinegar.  To  a  pint  of  potatoes  add  one 
small  onion  minced  fine,  salt,  pepper  and  prepared  mustard 
to  taste;  then  pour  over  the  whole  thick  sweet  or  sour  cream. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

POTATO    SALAD.     (Hot.) 
6  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  pint  potatoes, 

2  tablespoons  water,  1  large  onion, 

1  tablespoon  butter.  Pepper  and  salt. 

1  teaspoon  sugar. 
Slice  cold  potatoes  and  onion,  add  salt  and  pepper.    Melt 
the  butter  in  a  frjdng  pan,  add  vinegar,  water  and  sugar; 
when  it  boils  pour  over  the  potatoes  and  onions  and  mix 
thoroughly. 


84  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

3  eggs  (well  beaten),  Pinch  of  cayenne, 

6  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  quart  potatoes, 

6  tablespoons  melted  1  onion^ 

butter,  6  stalks  celery. 

6  tablespoons  sweet 

cream. 
Heat  eggs,  vinegar,  pepper  and  butter  in  double  boiler, 
stir  until  it  thickens,  when  cool  add  sweet  cream.  Boil  the 
potatoes  in  their  jackets,  when  cold,  peel  and  cut  in  squares 
or  dice.  Chop  the  onion  and  celery  very  fine,  season  all  with 
salt,  pour  over  the  cold  dressing,  mix  well  and  serve  in  a 
flat  dish  garnished  with  lettuce  leaves.  If  celery  stalks  can- 
not be  obtained  celery  seed  may  be  used  instead. 

POTATO    SALAD.     (Hot.) 

Boil  six  or  eight  large  potatoes  till  done ;  slice  while  hot ; 
peel  and  cut  three  large  onions  into  small  pieces  and  mix 
with  the  potatoes;  cut  into  small  bits  enough  breakfast  bacon 
to  fill  a  teacup  and  fry  a  light  brown;  remove  the  meat,  and 
stir  three  tablespoons  vinegar  into  the  grease,  making  a  sour 
gravy,  which,  with  the  bacon,  pour  over  the  potato  and  onion 
lightly.     Serve  hot.  —Mrs.  Gillett. 


SALADS.  85 


POTATO    SALAD. 

1  onion,  medium  size,         ^  cup  vinegar, 
12  good  sized  potatoes,        ^  cup  water, 
1  tablespoon  lard.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Chop  onion  fine,  slice  potatoes  while  hot,  mix  thoroughly, 
pour  over  the  vinegar  and  water,  add  pepper  and  salt,  and 
last  pour  over  the  hot  lard.  — Mary  Petrie. 


POTATO  SALAD. 

3  or  4  egg  yolks,  i  cup  vinegar. 

Butter,  size  of  small  egg,       ^  cup  water. 
Stir  together  and  cook  until  thick,  then  mix  with  sliced 
potatoes  and  a  sliced  onion  which  have  been  mixed  and  salted 
and  peppered  to  taste.    Garnish  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 

—Mrs.  C.  M.  E.  Bedell. 


SALAD. 

Chop  remnants  of  celery  and  cabbage  together,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  vinegar  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar. 


86  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

SALMON   SALAD. 

Drain  off  the  oil  and  remove  all  skin  and  bones  from 
one  can  of  salmon;  mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  celery,  cut 
fine;  pour  over  it  mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves.    Shrimp  salad  is  prepared  the  same  way. 

— Mrs.  James  Friedlander. 

SALMON   SALAD. 

Chop  fine  one  can  salmon,  three  or  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 
two  small  boiled  potatoes  and  a  little  lettuce  or  cabbage.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  vinegar  and  a  little  salad  oil.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaves.  — Ida  Schottler. 

SUMMER   SALAD. 

1  medium  sized  head  ^  dozen  red  radishes, 

lettuce,  1  cucumber, 

■J  dozen  young  onions,  2  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Place  the  lettuce  leaves  in  salad  bowl,  and  on  them 
arrange  the  other  vegetables  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  slices 
of  hard-boiled  eggs  on  top,  and  over  all  pour  any  preferred 
salad  dressing.    Very  nice  and  appetizing. 

TOMATO   AND    CUCUMBER   SALAD. 

Arrange  equal  parts  of  sliced  tomatoes  and  cucumbers 
on  lettuce  leaves,  then  pour  mayonnaise  dressing  over. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


SALADS.  87 


GRANDMOTHER^S  SALAD. 
Slice  raw  onions,  cover  with  vinegar  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.    A  most  appetizing  relish. 

WALNUT   SALAD. 

1  cup  sour  apple,  1  cup  celery. 

1  cup  walnuts, 
Chop   ingredients   separately,   mix   and   serve  with   the 
following 

DRESSING. 

3  yolks  of  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

i  cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  mustard,  Butter  size  of  walnut, 

^  teaspoon  black  pepper,    J  cup  cream. 
Mix  well  all  ingredients  but  cream,  let  just  come  to  a 
boil.    When  lukewarm  add  the  cream. 

— Mrs.  W.  E.  Bennet. 

CHEESE  SALAD. 

Season  cottage  cheese  well,  shape  into  small  balls,  place 
half  a  walnut  on  each  and  serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  salad 
dressing.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 

COTTAGE   CHEESE    SALAD. 

Place  little  balls  of  cottage  cheese  on  lettuce  leaves ;  pour 
over  each  about  a  tablespoon  of  salad  dressing  and  serve  with 
salted  wafers.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


88  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

COTTAGE    CHEESE. 

As  soon  as  cottage  cheese  is  drained,  put  in  a  glass  dish 
without  seasoning  of  any  kind,  turn  thick  sweet  cream  over 
and  serve.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 


COTTAGE    CHEESE. 

Let  sour  milk  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  the  whey  sepa- 
rates from  the  clabbered  milk;  then  drain  through  a  cloth 
until  the  curd  is  quite  dry,  stir  smooth,  add  salt  to  taste  and 
sweet  cream  enough  to  dish  easily  with  a  spoon;  then  put  it 
into  a  glass  dish,  pour  thick  sweet  cream  over  and  serve. 

—Mrs.  C.  H.  Miller. 


BOILED   CHEESE. 

Put  one  tablespoon  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  a  nutmeg, 
and  half  a  pound  of  good  cheese,  grated  fine,  in  a  saucepan 
over  a  slow  fire  until  it  boils ;  then  add  one  egg,  well  beaten, 
stir  well,  turn  into  a  dish  and  brown.    Serve  very  hot. 

— Mrs.  Sophie  Bordoe. 


HAND   CHEESE. 

Drain  clabbered  milk  while  warm  through  cheese  cloth, 
press  dry,  add  salt  and  caraway  seed,  mix  well,  make  into 
balls,  let  dry,  put  in  a  jar  and  while  curing  wash  thoroughly 
once  a  week. 


Pickles,  Catsups,  Etc. 


"Hunger  is  the  Best  Sauce." 

BEET    PICKLE. 

Boil  small  beets,  until  tender,  in  a  porcelain  kettle.  When 
cold,  put  in  a  jar  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar,  sweetened  to 
taste.    Add  laurel  leaves  and  caraway  seed. 

— Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

CHILI   SAUCE. 

12  large  tomatoes,  f  cup  sugar, 

3  green  peppers,  IJ  cups  vinegar, 

3  onions,  Salt  to  taste. 

Chop  the  tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions;  add  the  sugar, 
vinegar  and  salt;  boil  slowly  about  two  hours.  Bottle  while 
hot.  —Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


90  WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

CHILI   SAUCE.     (Uncooked.) 

One  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled,  chopped  and  drained, 

2  cups  chopped  celery,         1  quart  vinegar, 

3  green  peppers,  1  cup  sugar, 

3  onions,  2  ounces  white  mustard 

J  cup  salt,  seed. 

— Mrs.  Isham. 

CUCUMBEE  PICKLES.    (Fine.) 

Wash  the  cucumbers  carefully  and  place  in  a  jar.  Make 
a  weak  brine  of  one  handful  of  salt  to  one  and  one-half  gal- 
lons of  water;  when  scalding  hot  pour  over  the  cucumbers 
until  covered.  Eepeat  this  process  three  days  in  succession, 
taking  care  to  skim  thoroughly  each  time.  On  the  fourth  day 
have  ready  a  porcelain  kettle  of  vinegar  to  which  has  been 
added  a  piece  of  alum,  the  size  of  a  walnut.  When  scalding 
hot,  put  in  as  many  cucumbers  as  the  vinegar  will  cover. 
Scald  well,  but  do  not  boil  (they  change  color  when  done), 
take  out  and  replace  with  others,  adding  a  small  piece  of  alum 
each  time.  Throw  away  this  vinegar  and  take  some  good 
cider  or  white  wine  vinegar,  using  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar  to  a  quart  of  vinegar.  Add  spices  to  taste,  such  as 
celery  seed,  mustard  seed,  pepper  and  stick  cinnamon.  Sort 
the  pickles  and  place  in  jars;  turn  the  spiced  vinegar  over 
them  boiling  hot  and  seal.  The  pickles  will  be  hard  at  the 
end  of  a  year.  — Mrs.  George  Kuehlthau. 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS,  ETC.  91 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 
Soak  small  cucumbers  in  salt  and  water  over  night.    In 
the  morning  drain  and  put  in  glass  jar.     Sprinkle  over  one 
tablespoon  sugar  and  one-half  teaspoon  mixed  spices.     Cover 
with  boiling  vinegar.  — Mrs.  Fred  Haase. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 
Gather  small  cucumbers,  leaving  about  one-fourth  the 
stem  on.  Wash  very  carefully  so  as  not  to  remove  the  little 
black  specks  which  cover  the  cucumbers,  drain  in  colander, 
wipe  and  lay  carefully  in  a  quart  can,  adding  two  level  table- 
spoons salt  and  five  canary  peppers  to  each  can ;  fill  with  com 
vinegar  and  seal  cold.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Doyle. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES.     (Sliced.) 
12  large  cucumbers,  1  teaspoon  white  mustard 

6  onions,  seed, 

1  pint  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  pepper, 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon  buds, 

1  teaspoon  celery  seed,         1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  tumeric  powder. 

Peel  cucumbers  and  onions,  slice  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  let  stand  one  hour;  then  drain  and  add  remaining  ingre- 
dients, let  come  to  a  boil  and  seal  while  hot. 

— Mrs.  A.  L.  Crump. 


92  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

DILL  PICKLES. 

To  one  gallon  of  rain  water  take  one  cup  salt,  one  cup 
vinegar,  one  scant  teaspoon  alum;  let  this  come  to  a  boil  and 
then  cool.  Put  down  a  layer  of  cucumbers,  then  a  layer  of 
dill,  two  grape  leaves  and  a  few  green  grapes.  Repeat  the 
process  until  the  jar  is  filled,  then  pour  the  liquid  over,  put- 
ting a  layer  of  dill  on  top.  Cover  and  put  on  a  weight  to  keep 
the  pickles  in  the  liquid.  — Mrs.  Marie  Pick. 

DILL  PICKLES. 

To  six  quarts  of  water  add  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  one 
pound  of  salt,  five  cents  worth  of  Weinsteinsaeure  (tartaric 
acid),  and  spices  as  follows:  Pepper,  cloves,  allspice,  a  good 
quantity  of  dill,  horseradish,  grape  leaves  and  bay  leaves. 
Place  a  layer  of  cucumbers  in  a  stone  jar,  then  sprinkle  over 
some  of  the  spices;  continue  until  all  are  used,  laying  the 
dill  and  leaves  between  each  layer.  Put  a  tight,  well-weighted 
cover  over  them.  — Mrs.  W.  P.  Rix. 

DILL  PICKLES. 

Boil  one  pail  of  water,  let  cool ;  then  add  one  pint  of  salt 
and  one  pint  vinegar.  Fill  a  five  gallon  jar  with  alternate 
layers  of  cucumbers  and  dill,  then  pour  the  water  over  them. 

— Mrs.  A.  Baehhausen. 


PICKLES,   CATSUPS.  ETC.  93 

DILL  PICKLES. 

Put  dill  in  the  bottoms  of  two  quart  cans,  then  wash 
medium-sized  cucumbers  and  fill  the  cans;  put  alum  the  size 
of  a  hickory  nut  in  each  can.  Let  one  small  cup  of  coarse 
salt  and  nine  cups  of  water  just  come  to  a  boil;  when  cooled, 
add  one  cup  of  cider  vinegar  to  every  three  cups  of  brine,  pour 
over  the  cucumbers  in  the  cans  and  seal.    Will  keep  for  years. 

— Mrs.  G.  A.  Knoller. 

DILL  PICKLES. 

12  quarts  water,  1  quart  salt, 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  1  quart  vinegar, 

tartar, 
Heat  water  and  salt,  cool  a  little,  then  add  vinegar  and 
cream  of  tartar  and  pour  over  cucumbers  and  dill. 

— Emmeline  W.  Smith. 

EAST    INDIAN    PICKLES. 

200  small  cucumbers,  1  root  horseradish, 

1  small  head  cabbage,  1  head  cauliflower, 

20  small  onions,  6  small  green  peppers. 

Slice  the  cabbage  fine,  soak  all  in  salt  and  water  twenty- 
four  hours,  then  drain  and  put  in  vinegar  prepared  by  boil- 
ing good  cider  vinegar  with  one-fourth  pound  whole  black 
pepper,  two  ounces  white  mustard  seed  and  one-fourth  ounce 
ground  tumeric  bark.  When  cold  stir  in  one-quarter  pound 
yellow  mustard.  — Mrs.  E.  C. 


94  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

FRENCH   MUSTARD. 

3  tablespoons  mustard,         1  egg, 
1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  teacup  vinegar. 

Work  the  mustard  and  sugar  well  together;  add  the  egg, 
beaten  light,  and  the  vinegar,  a  little  at  a  time;  stir  well  to- 
gether and  set  it  on  the  stove;  let  it  cook  for  a  few  moments, 
stirring  all  the  time.  When  taken  off,  add  a  large  spoon  of 
butter  or  oil.  — Mrs.  B.  M.  Custis. 

FRENCH   MUSTARD. 

Soak  a  good-sized  onion  in  vinegar  over  night;  in  the 
morning  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  good 
teaspoon  of  sugar  and  stir  in  mustard  to  make  a  thin  paste. 
Boil  up  well.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

GREEN   TOMATO    PICKLES. 

Pare,  cut  once  in  two,  flatwise,  remove  the  little  bunches 
of  seed,  salt  and  let  stand  twelve  hours,  then  wash  off  the 
brine  thoroughly  with  warm  water.  Place  a  layer  of  toma- 
toes (no  miore),  in  a  fruit  kettle  or  new  flat  paii,  and  pour  on 
boiling  water.  Cook  until  tender,  then  remove  at  once  and 
place  carefully  in  a  stone  jar.  Put  a  new  layer  into  the  hot 
water  and  proceed  this  way  until  all  the  tomatoes  are  cooked. 
(Keep  jar  on  back  of  stove,  well  covered.)  Meanwhile  have 
sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  cooking  together.  Seven  pounds  of 
tomatoes  will  require  three  pounds  of  sugar,  little  more  than 
a  pint  of  vinegar  and  a  bag  of  spices.    When  the  tomatoes  are 


PICKLES,   CATSUPS,  ETC.  95 

all  in  the  jar  pour  over  the  syrup  and  set  away  until  the  fol- 
lowing morning,  then  drain  off  the  syrup,  add  to  it  another 
pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  heat  and  pour  over 
the  tomatoes.  Prepared  in  this  way  the  pickles  will  keep 
three  years  and  grow  better  all  the  time. 

— Mrs.  John  Conrad. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES. 
One  peck  tomatoes  and  six  large  onions,  sliced.  Sprinkle 
with  one  cup  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
drain  and  add  to  the  tomatoes  two  quarts  water  and  one  quart 
vinegar;  boil  ten  minutes,  then  drain  again  and  throw  away 
this  vinegar  and  water.     Add  to  the  pickles 

2  pounds  sugar,  2  tablespoons  allspice, 

2  quarts  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  ginger, 

1  teaspoon  cayenne  2  tablespoons  mustard, 
pepper,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon. 

2  tablespoons  cloves. 

Boil  fifteen  minutes.  — Mrs.  A.  M.  Wagner. 

MUSTARD   PICXLES. 

2  quarts  green  tomatoes,  1  pound  Colman's  mustard, 

2  quarts  small  onions,  1  tablespoon  tumeric, 

2  quarts  string  beans,  1  gallon  vinegar, 

2  heads  cauliflower,  2  cups  sugar. 
1  doz.  small  cucumbers, 

Slice  the  tomatoes,  cut  the  cauliflower  in  small  pieces, 

and  salt  vegetables  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  thor- 


96  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK.       . 

oughly;  mix  mustard  with  little  vinegar.    When  the  vinegar 
boils  put  all  in  and  boil  one-half  hour.    Bottle  while  hot. 

— Mrs.  A.  P.  Chapman. 

MUSTAKD   PICKLES. 
1  quart  cucumbers,  1  quart  green  tomatoes. 

1  quart  onions, 
Slice,  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.     In  the  morning 
drain,  pour  scalding  vinegar  over  and  let  stand  three  days. 
Take 

^  cup  sugar,  |  cup  flour. 

i  cup  ground  mustard, 

Mix  with  enough  cold  vinegar  to  make  a  paste,  and  stir 
into  one  quart  of  boiling  vinegar;  let  boil  for  about  three 
minutes,  and  then  pour  over  the  pickles.    Mix  well. 

— Mrs.  H.  J.  Wagner. 

OIL  PICKLES. 
100  small  cucumbers  1  cup  celery  seed, 

(unpeeled,  sliced  1  lump  alum,  size  of  egg, 

round),  dissolved  in  vinegar, 

3  pints  small  onions  2  cups  olive  oil, 

(cut  in  two).  Cold  vinegar  to  cover 

J  cup  white  pepper,  pickles. 

1  cup  mustard  seed, 

Put  cucumbers  and  onions  in  layers  with  salt  and  let 
stand  three  hours.  Drain  and  put  the  seeds  in  small  bags 
through  the  pickles;  then  cover  with  vinegar  and  olive  oil. 

— Martha  von  Syburg. 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS,  ETC.  97 

OIL  PICKLES. 

100  cucumbers,  2  tablespoons  celery  seed, 

3  pints  small  onions,  1  tablespoon  mustard  seed, 

J  pint  olive  oil,  1  teaspoon  white  pepper. 

Slice  the  unpeeled  cucumbers  round,  cut  the  onions  in 
two,  let  stand  in  separate  dishes,  in  salt  (using  one  cup  of 
salt  to  a  gallon)  for  three  hours ;  then  drain  in  oolaader,  press 
out  the  water,  add  the  other  ingredients,  mix  thoroughly,  and 
cover  scantily  with  vinegar. 

— Mrs.  J.  A.  Stratheam. 

PICKLES. 

Wash  small  cucumbers  and  a  few  silver-skin  onions.  Let 
stand  in  salt  and  water  over  night;  in  the  morning  put  them 
in  alternate  layers  in  a  jar,  add  a  few  laurel  leaves,  whole 
black  peppers  and  dill.  Cover  with  boiling  vinegar  which 
has  been  sweetened  to  taste.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

PICCALILLI. 

1  cup  vinegar,  2  small  tablespoons  flour, 

2  teaspoon  dry  mustard,       2  teaspoons  sugar, 

2  eggs,  Butter,  size  of  a  walnut. 

Little  salt. 

Boil  vinegar,  add  mustard  and  flour,  boil ;  add  the  other 
ingredients,  cool,  and  mix  with  fine  chopped  cabbage. 

— Mrs.  P.  O'Meara. 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


PICCALILLI. 

1  peck  green  tomatoes,  6  cucumbers  (large), 

2  heads  cabbage  (small),  3  quarts  vinegar, 

3  green  peppers,  4  pounds  sugar. 

4  onions, 

Chop  vegetables  fine,  sprinkle  cup  of  salt  over,  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  add  vinegar  and  sugar; 
let  boil  thirty  minutes.  — Mrs.  A.  Zimmerling. 

SENF  GURKElSr.  (Mustard  Cucumbers.) 
Peel,  remove  the  seeds  and  slice  lengthwise  one  bushel 
ripe  cucumbers,  sprinkle  with  a  scant  pint  of  salt  and  let 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  wipe  dry  and  cook, 
not  too  tender,  in  one  part  vinegar,  two  parts  water  and 
one-half  cup  sugar;  then  drain  in  colander  and  put  in  jars. 
Boil  one  part  vinegar,  three  parts  water,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
a  few  pieces  horseradish  and  yellow  mustard  seed;  pour  over 
the  pickles  and  seal.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

SHIRLEY   SAUCE. 

6  large  ripe  tomatoes,  1  tablespoon  salt, 

1  large  green  pepper,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

1  large  ooiion,  1  tablespoon  ginger. 

1  teacup  vinegar, 

Chop  tomatoes,  onion  and  pepper  fine;  stir  all  together; 
bail  one  hour  and  bottle  while  hot. 

— Mrs.  A.  Zimmerling. 


PICKLES.  CATSUPS,  ETC.  99 

SPICED   OUCUMBEE  PICKLES. 

2  ounces  tumeric,  i  ounce  cayenne  pepper, 

J  ounce  pepper  corns,  4  ounces  black  mustard  seed, 

1  gallon  vinegar,  4  ounces  white  mustard  seed, 
Alum,  size  of  walnut,  1  cup  groimd  mustard. 

Soak  the  cucumbers  in  salt  and  water,  then  scald  them 
in  the  vinegar  to  which  has  been  added  all  the  ingredients 
except  the  mustard,  then  place  in  a  jar  and  over  the  whole 
sprinkle  the  mustard  and  a  little  horseradish. 

—Mrs.  C.  F.  Stein. 

SPANISH  PICKLES. 

12  ripe  cucumbers,  1  ounce  white  mustard  seed, 

2  heads  cabbage,  1  ounce  black  mustard  seed, 
1  peck  green  tomatoes,        1  ounce  celery  seed, 

6  small  onions,  1  ounce  tumeric  powder, 

i  pound  Colman's  1^  pounds  brown  sugar, 

mustard,  Vinegar  to  cover  well. 

Peel,  remove  the  seeds  and  slice  the  cucumbers  length- 
wise the  size  of  the  finger;  let  stand  in  salt  water  over  night. 
Chop  the  cabbage  and  tomatoes  fine,  sprinkle  this  mixture  and 
the  onions  with  salt  in  the  proportion  of  one  pint  to  a  peck; 
let  stand  over  night;  squeeze  all  dry  from  the  brine  and  place 
in  kettle  with  remaining  ingredients.  Stir  until  it  boils  and 
put  up  air  tight  in  cans  or  bottles. 

— Mrs.  J.  J.  Lutzen. 


100  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

SWEET   PICKLED   CHERIMBS. 

Wash,  stone  and  stem  cherries;  cover  with  vinegar  twen- 
ty-four hours.  Pour  off  vinegar  (bottle  and  save  for  mince- 
meat). Add  one  pound  sugar  to  one  pound  cherries,  let  stand 
over  night,  and  can  cold.  The  cherries  may  be  left  with 
stones  and  stems  if  preferred.  — Mrs.  H.  B.  Hitz. 


SPICED   GREEN  TOMATO   PICKLES. 

I  peck  green  tomatoes,         1  tablespoon  ground  cloves, 
1  quart  water,  1  tablespoon  allspice, 

1  cup  salt,  1  tablespoon  mustard, 

1  quart  cider  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 

1  tablespoon  pepper,  1  pound  brown  sugar. 

Slice  the  tomatoes,  let  stand  in  the  salt  and  water  two 
hours;  drain  through  a  colander,  pressing  out  all  the  brine; 
add  the  remaining  ingredients ;  boil  ten  minutes,  then  simmer 
about  an  hour.  Ready  for  the  table  when  cold.  Will  keep 
indefinitely.  — Selected. 


SWEET   PICKLED   PIEPLANT. 

7  pounds  pieplant,  1  stick  cinnamon, 

3  pounds  sugar,  Cloves  and  nutmeg. 

1  pint  vinegar, 
Stew  slowly  until  thick.    Will  make  four  quarts. 

— Mrs.  H.  Mead. 


PICKLES,   CATSUPS,  ETC.  101 

SWEET   PICKLED   WAX   BEANS. 

Put  beans  into  a  kettle,  add  boiling  salt  water  enough  to 
cover  them^  boil  until  almost  tender^  then  drain  off  water 
and  measure  same,  to  get  the  correct  amount  of  vinegar.  To 
one  pint  of  vinegar,  take  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar  and 
boil  with  a  few  pieces  of  stick  cinnamon,  to  a  syrup.  Put  in 
the  beans  looig  enough  to  heat  them  thoroughly,  then  can. 

— Mrs.  Marie  Pick. 


SWEET    PICKLED    YELLOW    CUCUMBERS. 

6  pounds  cucumbers,  1  lemon, 

3  pounds  sugar,  Cloves  and  mustard  seed 

1  quart  vinegar,  to  taste. 

Peel  and  quarter  cucumbers,  remove  seeds  and  soft  parts, 
put  in  a  porcelain  dish  and  salt.  Let  stand  until  morning, 
then  wipe  and  weigh  them.  Prepare  the  spiced  syrup  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  then  put  in  cucumbers  and  boil  until  clear. 
Put  in  cans,  and  if  there  is  too  much  syrup  cook  it  down 
until  there  is  just  enough  to  fill  the  cans. 

— ^Mrs.  Stephen  Mayer. 


102 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


TOMATO    CATSUP 
1  gallooi  tomato  juice,  1  tablespoon  ground  cloves, 


1  tablespoon  mustard, 
J  tablespoon  vinegar, 
1  large  red  pepper  pod. 
Boil  three  hours.    When  cold  add  one  pint  cold  vinegar. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


IJ  teaspoons  black 

pepper, 
IJ  tablespoons  salt, 


TOMATO    CATSUP. 


J  bushel  tomatoes 

(juice), 
1  tablespoon  salt, 
IJ  tablespoons  cinna- 
mon, 
J  tablespoon  mustard. 
Boil  four  hours. 


1  teaspoon  ginger, 
i  teaspoon  red  pepper, 
J  nutmeg, 
1  cup  brown  sugar, 
1  quart  vinegar. 

—Mrs.  W.  S.  Doig. 


TOMATO    CATSUP. 


2  quarts  tomatoes, 
1  pint  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  salt. 


1  tablespoon  pepper, 

2  tablespoons  mustard. 

—Mrs.  L.  Stultz. 


PICKLES,   CATSUPS,   ETC. 


103 


TOMATO    CATSUP. 


i  bushel  tomatoes, 

1  quart  vinegar, 
f  coffee  cup  salt, 

2  tablespoons  pepper 
(whole), 


1  tablespoon  allspice, 
6  small  onions, 

1  teaspoon  cloves, 

2  pounds  brown  sugar, 
J  teaspoon  cayenne. 


Boil   three   hours,   or   until   thick.      When   cool   strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  put  in  bottles  and  cork. 

— Mrs.  John  Duernberger. 


TOMATO    CATSUP. 


8  teaspoons  mustard  seed, 
1^  teaspoons  pepper, 
1  pint  vinegar, 
IJ  cups  sugai. 


1  gallon  tomatoes, 
3  teaspoons  salt, 
1  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  teaspoon  red  pepper, 
1  teaspoon  allspice. 

Boil  all  except  the  spices,  set  aside  until  it  ferments, 
then  boil  again  three  hours,  putting  in  spices,  either  ground 
or  whole.    Strain  and  bottle. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Krieger. 


104 


WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


TOMATO    CATSUP.     (Uncooked.) 
1  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  1  tablespoon  black  pepper, 


f  cup  salt, 

3  large  stalks  celery, 

1  cup  horseradish, 

1  cup  onions, 

3  red  peppers, 

1  pound  brown  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 


1  heaping  tablespoon  mus- 
tard, 

1  tablespoon  white  mustard 
seed, 

1  teaspoon  mace, 

1  teaspoon  cloves,  ground, 

1  quart  white  vinegar. 


Peel  and  chop  the  tomatoes,  not  too  fine,  chop  the  celery 
nnd  onions  fine^  remove  the  seeds  from  the  peppers,  dissolve 
the  mustard  in  a  little  vinegar,  stir  well  together  and  seal 
cold  in  pint  cans.  Will  keep  two  years.  Must  be  used  after 
rhe  can  is  opened  or  it  will  not  keep. 

— Mrs.  Joseph  Merlach. 


VINEGAR    PICKLES. 


1  gallon  small  cucum- 
bers, 

6  ounces  salt, 

f  pound  pearl  onions, 

i  pound  liorseradish 
(sliced), 


1  ounce  ginger  root, 
I  ounce  white  pepper, 

1  ounce  cloves, 
12  bay  leaves, 

2  handfuls  dill, 
Green  grapes. 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS.  ETC.  106 

Mixed  spices  may  be  used  instead  of  these.    Let  cucum 
bers  and  onions  stand  twenty-four  hours,  sprinkled  with  the 
salt.    Drain  and  put  down  a  layer  of  cucumbers  and  onions, 
and  then  a  layer  of  spices.     Pour  enough  cold  vinegar  ove) 
to  cover.    Place  a  small  bag  filled  with  mustard  seed  on  top. 

— Mrs.  Marie  Pick. 


YELLOW  PICKLES.     (Southern.) 

1^  pounds  white  mus-         4  ounces  allspice, 

tard,  4  ounces  cinnamon, 

8  pounds  sugar,  4  ounces  celery  seed, 

8  lemons,  4  ounces  tumeric, 

6  nutmegs,  2  ounces  cloves, 

1  quart  garlic,  2  ounces  mace, 

6  ounces  white  ginger,         3  gallons  white  wine 
5  ounces  black  pepper,  vinegar. 

Crush  the  spices,  not  too  fine ;  soak  the  green  cucumbers, 
beans,  tomatoes,  etc.,  two  days,  changing  water  four  times; 
drain,  roll  in  fine  barrel  salt  and  dry  two  days  in  hot  sun, 
turning  often  to  bleach  them;  then,  after  wiping  off  with  a 
coarse  towel,  drop  into  the  prepared  vinegar  and  set  in  the 
hot  sun  several  days.  This  vinegar  can  be  used  several  sea- 
sons. — Mrs.  L.  E.  Harrison. 


106  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CORN    VINEGAR. 

To  one  gallon  of  soft  water  add  one  pint  of  sugar,  and 
one  pint  of  green  com  cut  from  the  cob.  Put  in  a  jug  and 
let  stand  in  a  warm  place  three  weeks. 

POTATO  VINEGAR. 

To  one  gallon  of  water,  drained  from  boiling  potatoes, 
add  two  cups  sugar  and  one-half  cup  yeast.  Let  stand  a 
month  in  a  warm  place. 

WHITE   WINE  VINEGAR. 

Wash  ten  pounds  raisins;  add  five  gallons  rain  water. 
Let  stand  a  month  in  a  warm  place. 


Vegetables. 


"Peace  hldeth  herself  umder  tlie 
lid  of  the  well  maiiaged  pot." 

ASPAEAGUS. 

When  scraped  and  washed,  tie  in  bunches  of  equal  size, 
and  put  into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  well  salted.  When  the 
stalks  of  the  asparagus  are  tender,  take  them  out  and  place  on 
a  dish,  the  heads  lying  one  way,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

SAUCE. 

For  three  bunches  asparagus  take  one  teaspoon  corn- 
starch, moisten  with  sweet  cream  and  the  beaten  yolks  of 
three  eggs;  then  add  one-half  cup  cream  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg;  boil  with  one  pint  of  the  liquid  in  which  the  aspara- 
gus was  boiled,  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens;  then 
remove  from  fire.  — Mrs.  Marie  Pick. 


108  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

BAKED    BEANS. 

Two  quarts  small  white  beans  soaked  over  night.  In  the 
morning  put  in  a  baking  dish  with  a  piece  of  scalded  salt 
pork.  Cover  with  water,  never  letting  them  bake  dry.  Bake 
all  day  and  evening,  and  let  them  remain  in  oven  until  next 
morning.  — Mrs.  Biggs. 

BAKED    BEANS. 

Put  one  quart  of  beans  over  in  cold  water;  as  soon  as 
they  boil  up  well  add  half  teaspoon  soda;  pour  off  the  water; 
add  fresh  boiling  water  and  let  them  boil  until  they  begin  to 
get  soft,  but  not  break.  Put  in  the  baking  dish  a  large  spoon 
of  molasses,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
of  mustard  flour,  pour  the  beans  in  and  stir  well;  place  two 
pounds  of  pork,  which  has  been  parboiled,  in  the  center,  and 
bake  three  or  four  hours.  If  they  get  too  dry  add  a  little 
water.  — Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 

BAKED    BEANS. 

To  a  four-quart  basin  of  beans,  after  they  are  parboiled, 
add  a  coffee  cup  of  thick  sour  cream,  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
sugar  and  salt  to  taste.    Bake  two  hours.      — Mrs.  Lake. 


VEGETABLES.  109 


LIMA  BEANS. 

A  delicious  way  of  serving  lima  beans  is  to  fry  them  a 
golden  brown  in  butter,  after  they  have  been  boiled  tender  in 
salted  water.  — Mrs.  C  .A.  Silberzahn. 


SOUE   PICKLED   BEANS   AS   A   VEGETABLE. 

Heat  a  large  tablespoon  of  lard  very  hot,  stir  into  it  a 
medium  sized  onion,  cut  fine,  and  a  large  tablespoon  of  flour ; 
let  brown  and  add  enough  water  to  make  a  nice  thickened 
gravy.  Take  the  pickled  beans  from  their  juice,  cut  them 
once  and  put  them  in  the  gravy ;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
If  they  are  not  sour  enough,  put  in  a  little  of  the  pickle 
vinegar.    Boil  fifteen  minutes.  — Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 

STEING   BEANS. 

Cut  beans  lengthwise,  heat  some  butter  in  a  kettle,  slice 
in  it  a  medium  sized  onion,  put  in  the  beans  and  add  enough 
boiling  water  to  barely  cover  them.  Boil  two  hours,  replen- 
ishing water  when  necessary.  Half  an  hour  before  serving 
add  a  little  minced  parsley,  a  very  little  thyme,  salt,  pepper 
and  a  little  flour,  stirred  in  cold  water.  Let  boil  two  or  three 
minutes.  — Mrs.  Emma  Wilkie. 


110  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

BEET  VEGETABLE. 

Slice  six  cold  boiled  beets,  add  one  cup  of  vinegar,  ooie 
cup  of  water,  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  bay  leaf,  four 
cloves,  four  allspice,  an  onion  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar. 
Let  simmer  slowly,  then  add  one  teaspoon  of  flour  to  thicken. 

— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 

CABBAGE. 

Cut  cabbage  as  fine  as  it  can  be  sliced.  Cook  in  milk  for 
one-half  hour,  then  add  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  flour 
to  thicken.  — ^Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 

BAKED  CABBAGE. 

Boil  one  head  of  cabbage  fifteen  minutes;  pour  off 
water,  put  on  fresh  boiling  water,  and  cook  until  tender,  then 
let  cool,  chop,  add  two  beaten  eggs,  ooie  tablespoon  of 
butter,  three  tablespoons  of  cream,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Mix  and  bake  until  brown.  — Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 

FRIED  CABBAGE  WITH  EGGS. 
Cut  cabbage  fine,  boil  in  salted  water  until  tender,  drain, 
put  piece  of  butter  in  pan  and  fry  the  cabbage  about  five  min- 
utes; season  with  pepper,  then  pour  two  beaten  eggs  over,  stir 
thoroughly  and  serve  at  once. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Hackendahl. 


VEGETABLES.  Ill 


FILLED  CABBAGE, 

Boil  one  cabbage  head,  whole,  in  a  little  salt  water  until 
half  done  then  make  little  cups  of  the  cabbage  leaves  using 
about  four  to  a  cup  and  fill  each  with  one  tablespoon  of  the 
following 

DRESSING. 

J  cup  lamb,  1  small  onion,  chopped, 

■J  cup  pork,  1  small  bowl  bread  crumbs, 

2  well  beaten  eggs,  Parsley  or  celery,  chopped, 

3  tablespoons  milk,  Pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg. 
Have  the  meat  chopped  together  by  the  butcher;  mix 

the  bread,  eggs  and  milk,  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
mix  well.  After  filling  the  cups  with  the  dressing  roll 
each  closely  together,  place  snugly  in  a  baking  pan  with  a 
little  butter  between,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour 
over  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  bake;  when  done,  place  each 
roll  nicely  on  a  platter  and  serve  with  parsley. 

— Mrs.  Joseph  Merlach. 

HOT  SLAW. 

Cut  a  head  of  cabbage  fine,  heat  a  tablespoon  of  lard  in 
the  frying  pan,  put  in  the  cabbage  with  two  apples,  sliced  fine ; 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  plenty  of  sugar.  Fry  until  about 
half  done,  then  add  vinegar  and  water;  cook  until  done; 
grate  a  small  raw  potato  over  it,  stir  quickly  and  serve. 

— Mrs.  A.  Husting. 


112  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

HOT  SLAW. 

Cut  two  or  three  apples  and  a  firm  head  of  cabbage  fine ; 
cook  a  small  onion  in  a  tablespoon  of  lard,  but  do  not  brown; 
add  cabbage,  apple,  and  salt  to  taste.  When  almost  done,  or 
about  twenty  minutes  before  serving,  add  one  cup  of  vinegar, 
sweetened  to  taste;  sprinkle  a  little  white  pepper  over  and 
simmer  slowly  until  time  to  serve.    Cook  without  a  cover. 

— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 

HOT  SLAW. 

Slice  half  a  head  of  cabbage  fine,  season  with  salt  and 
put  in  steamer  over  potatoes  when  they  are  put  on  to  boil  for 
dinner.  When  the  cabbage  is  warmed  through,  remove  from 
steamer,  press  out  the  water,  season  with  pork  gravy,  pepper, 
an  onion,  sliced  fine,  and  vinegar,  mix  thoroughly  with  a 
fork.  —Mrs.  W.  J.  Eiting. 

MILK  CABBAGE. 

Chop  one  head  of  cabbage  fine,  boil  in  salted  water  until 
tender,  drain  and  press  dry  in  a  napkin ;  then  add  one  pint  of 
milk  and  one  heaping  tablespoon  butter;  season  to  taste. 
Simmer  slowly  on  back  of  stove. 

— Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 


VEGETABLES.  113 


ROTHKRAUT   (Red  Cabbage). 

Medium-sized  head  of  red  cabbage,  cut  fine,  two  sour 
apples  sliced  thin,  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  waliuit, 
a  little  salt  and  sugar.  Put  the  butter  in  a  kettle  and  wliik- 
it  is  getting  hot  mix  the  cabbage  and  apple  together;  season, 
then  put  in  kettle,  cover  closely  and  let  simmer  for  about  five 
minutes.  Add  a  little  hot  water  and  cook  until  nearly  ten- 
der; then  put  in  enough  vinegar,  sweetened  to  taste,  to 
moisten  the  cabbage  well,  and  just  before  serving  grate  a  little 
nutmeg  over  the  top.  — Mrs.  Alfred  H.  Weil. 

SOUR  CABBAGE. 

Heat  one  large  tablespoon  lard  or  fr3dng8  and  one-half 
cup  vinegar,  then  add  one  head  of  cabbage  sliced  very  fine, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  enough  water  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing.    Cook  about  half  an  hour. 

— Mrs.  J.  R.  Diesterhaupt. 

SOUTHERN  CABBAGE. 

Turn  water  into  a  large  kettle  until  it  is  two-thirds  full, 
let  come  to  a  boil,  add  one  tablespoon  salt  and  a  pinch  of 
soda.  Cut  a  cabbage  head  in  quarters,  break  into  smaller 
pieces,  put  into  the  boiling  water  and  cook  twenty  minutes, 
then  remove  the  kettle  to  the  open  air,  strain  the  cabbage 
through  a  colander  and  throw  away  the  water;  prepared  for 
the  table  in  this  way  no  disagreeable  odor  of  cooking  cabbage 
will  be  in  the  house.  — Mrs.  Gilbert  Huson. 


114  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

CREAMED  CAREOTS. 

Slice  three  good-sized  carrots  thin  and  boil  tender  in  salt 
water;  drain,  chop  fine  and  stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter; 
pour  over  a  cup  and  a  half  of  milk  in  which  has  been  stirred  a 
teaspoon  of  flour  and  a  level  teaspoon  of  sugar;  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste;  simmer  slowly.  Peas  and  cauliflower  are 
nice  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 

MASHED  CARROTS. 

Boil  carrots  in  salted  water  until  tender,  then  drain  and 
mash  them,  seasoning  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Very 
nice.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

PEAS  AND  CARROTS. 

Shell  the  peas,  scrape  and  wash  little  carrots,  cut  in 
small  pieces;  melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  kettle;  add  peas 
and  carrots  and  just  cover  with  boiling  water.  Cook  from  one 
and  one-half  to  two  hours,  adding  boiling  water  as  necessary. 
About  half  an  hour  before  serving  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  a  little  minced  parsley,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and 
thicken  with  flour  mixed  with  cold  water.  Let  boil  a  few 
minutes.  Either  vegetable  may  be  prepared  separately  in  the 
same  manner.  — Mrs.  Emma  Wilkie. 


VEGETABLES.  115 


CAULIFLOWEE. 

Boil  head  of  cauliflower  in  salted  water  until  soft  then 
drain,  put  into  a  dish  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs  browned 
in  butter.  — Clara  L.  Kuechenmeister. 

CHEELES  (Mexican). 
Hold  a  green  pepper  on  a  fork  over  the  coals  until  it 
can  be  easily  peeled.  Peel,  cut  the  pepper  down  the  side  from 
the  stem  to  the  small  end,  remove  the  seeds  and  the  three 
large  veins,  fill  the  cavity  with  a  piece  of  cheese,  close  the 
two  sides,  covering  the  cheese,  and  place  in  a  spider  contain- 
ing fried  meat  fat  enough  to  fry  nicely.  Prepare  about  six 
peppers  in  this  way  and  when  they  are  in  the  spider  ready 
to  cook  turn  over  them  two  well  beaten  eggs;  when  done  on 
one  side  turn  like  a  pancake  and  fry  on  the  other.  Another 
nice  way  to  cook  green  peppers  is  to  chop  them  fine  after  they 
have  been  peeled  and  the  seeds  and  veins  removed,  and  cook 
a  few  minutes  in  the  gravy  after  the  steak  has  been  taken  up ; 
turn  this  over  the  steak  and  serve. 

BAKED  CORN. 
Grate  the  kernels  from  six  ears  of  com,  mix  with  three 
beaten  eggs,  one-half  pint  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  tea- 
spoon salt  and  a  little  black  pepper.    Bake  forty-five  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Boekm. 


116  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

ESCALLOPED  COEN. 

Half  fill  a  buttered  pan  or  pudding  dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  green  com,  cut  from  the 
cob,  having  the  top  Isijer  of  com.  Sprinkle  each  layer  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  few  pieces  of  butter.  Pour  on 
sweet  milk  enough  to  nearly  fill  the  dish  and  bake  about  an 
hour.    Canned  corn  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  green  corn. 

— Mrs.  Cole. 

EGG  PLANT. 

Cut  in  slices  and  let  stand  in  cold  salt  water  over  an 
hour;  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  dip  in  egg  and  fry  in  butter. 

—Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 

ESCALLOPED  PARSNIPS. 

Mash  one  pint  of  boiled  parsnips,  add  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  two  tablespoons 
of  milk.  Mix  the  ingredients,  turn  into  a  buttered  dish,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  butter  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

— Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 

PARSNIPS. 

Boil  in  salted  water  until  done  then  slice  and  fry  in 
butter  uniil  both  sides  are  browned;  nice  also  if  the  slices  are 
dipped  in  a  mixture  of  egg  and  milk  before  frying. 


VEGETABLES.  117 


FRIED  NOODLES. 

For  six  persons  mix  three  well  beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  flour  enough  so  the  dough  will  not  stick  to  the 
moulding  board.  Eoll  very,  very  thin,  let  dry,  but  not  crisp ; 
cut  in  strips  about  two  inches  wide.  Place  the  strips  one 
above  the  other,  cut  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  wide,  shake 
out,  and  let  dry  for  about  half  an  hour.  Put  them  in  boiling 
water  and  let  boil  five  minutes;  then  put  in  a  colander  and 
let  drain ;  heat  a  half  cup  of  butter  and  a  piece  of  lard  the  size 
of  an  egg  in  a  spider  and  fry  the  noodles  for  about  twenty 
minutes;  put  in  a  vegetable  dish  and  sprinkle  the  top  with 
bread  crumbs  fried  brown.  A  dish  of  stewed  prunes  is 
generally  served  with  fried  noodles.     — Mrs.  Joseph  Ott. 

GOLD  AND  SILVEE  VEGETABLE. 
Wash  and  scrape  two  medium-sized  carrots,  peel  two 
white  turnips,  cut  all  into  dice,  then  put  in  a  kettle  with  three 
pounds  lamb  roast ;  pour  over  one  pint  of  water,  add  two 
ounces  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stew  gently 
three  hours,  occasionally  adding  a  little  boiling  water  to 
retain  enough  juice.  When  done  remove  the  meat,  scattering 
over  it  a  little  dried  parsley,  and  stir  into  the  vegetable  one 
tablespoon  flour  browned  in  one  ounce  butter,  and  place 
around  the  meat  before  serving.  — Mrs.  E.  Hoyer. 

FRIED  APPLES. 

Wash,  wipe  and  slice  unpeeled  sour  apples,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  sugar.  Fry  in  salt-pork  fat  or  butter  until 
tender.  — Mrs.  Hunter. 


118  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS. 

Peel  large  green  cucumbers,  slice  lengthwise  about  one- 
quarter  inch  thick,  put  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes,  dip  in 
egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  lard.  Similar  to  fried 
egg  plant.  Green  tomatoes  sliced  flatwise  are  nice  fried  in 
the  same  way.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE  CROQUETTES. 

2  oz.  macaroni,  3  oz.  grated  cheese, 

1   oz.   butter,  J  teaspoon  pepper. 

1  oz.  flour,  i  teaspoon  salt, 

4  pint  milk,  2  egg^. 

Boil  the  macaroni  (see  next  recipe)  and  chop  it  flne.  Melt 
the  butter  in  a  pan,  stir  in  the  flour  smoothly,  add  the  milk, 
let  it  boil  till  the  sauce  leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan,  stirring 
carefully  all  the  time.  Add  the  macaroni  with  the  cheese, 
pepper,  salt,  a  small  quantity  of  made  mustard,  and  the 
yolk  of  one  egg,  to  the  sauce;  stir  aJl  together;  let  it  get 
hot,  but  not  boil,  after  the  cheese  is  in.  Spread  the  mixture 
on  a  plate  to  cool.  Beat  the  remaining  egg  slightly;  when 
cold,  make  the  mixture  into  croquettes  with  a  little  flour,  dip 
them  into  the  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a  golden 
brown  in  clarified  fat.  Place  the  croquettes  upright  on  the 
broad  end  in  the  dish;  stick  a  small  piece  of  uncooked  maca- 
roni into  the  narrow  end;  serve  on  a  folded  cloth. 


VEGETABLES.  119 


MACARONI. 

Put  one  pound  of  macaroni  into  boiling  water,  boil  un- 
til tender,  drain,  put  in  about  one  cup  of  milk,  boil  a  few 
minutes,  grate  in  some  American  cheese,  remove  from  fire, 
put  in  dish  alternate  layers  of  macaroni,  and  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  Use  half  a  cup  of  butter.  Cover  with  rolled 
crackers  and  brown.  — Mrs.  P.  O'Meara. 

MACARONI. 

Cook  macaroni  in  water  until  soft,  then  put  in  a  deep 
dish  with  alternate  layers  of  rolled  crackers  and  cheese,  salted 
to  taste.    Fill  the  dish  with  milk  and  bake  one  hour. 

—Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 

MACARONI  CHEESE. 

i  lb.  macaroni,  Pinch  of  cayenne, 

1  pint  milk,  2  tablespoons  cream, 

1  oz.  buttei,  3  oz.  cheese. 

i  teaspoon  salt, 

Break  the  macaroni  into  pieces,  put  into  a  pan  with 
sufficient  water  to  cover,  let  boil  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes, 
strain  and  add  the  milk,  or  half  stock  and  half  milk ;  let  boil 
for  twenty  minutes  or  till  tender,  then  put  it  into  another  pan 
with  butter,  salt,  cayenne,  cream  and  half  the  grated  cheese ; 
let  get  quite  hot,  but  not  boil ;  then  turn  into  a  flat  dish,  spread 
the  rest  of  the  cheese  over  and  place  in  the  oven  or  before  the 
fire  until  the  color  is  a  golden  brown.  Parmesan  is  the  best 
cheese  for  this  dish.  — Mrs.  Eliza  Weil. 


120  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

MACARONI   AND  TOMATO. 

Chop  a  good-sized  onion  and  carrot  fine,  and  fry  in  a 
tablespoon  of  butter;  when  brown  add  two  cups  of  canned  to- 
mato and  boil  up  well.  Fill  a  baking  dish  with  layers  of  the 
boiled  macaroni,  covered  with  the  tomato  sauce,  seasoned  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  brown. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


FRIED  ONIONS. 

Peel  and  slice,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fry  in  butter 
or  pork  gravy  until  tender,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent 
burning.     Serve  hot.  — Mrs.  Owens. 

STEWED  ONIONS  WITH  CREAM. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  one  quart  of  medium-sized 
onions,  add  one  teaspoon  sugar  and  boil  until  almost  done; 
then  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  boil  a  few  minutes  longer,  then 
put  in  a  colander  to  drain.  In  the  meantime,  put  an  ounce 
of  butter  and  one-half  tablespoon  of  flour  into  a  pan,  stir  two 
minutes,  add  one  cup  of  sweet  cream,  then  boil,  being  care- 
ful not  to  let  the  flour  become  lumpy ;  add  a  little  pepper  and 
salt  and  pour  over  onions  after  they  have  been  placed  in  a 
v/arm  dish  ready  to  serve.  — Mrs.  George  Enger. 


VEGETABLES.  121 


STUFFED   ONIONS. 
2   Spanish  onions,  i  teaspoon  lemon  rind, 

Meat  remnants,  i  teaspoon  pepper, 

2  tablespoons  crumbs,  -|  teaspoon  salt, 

1  tablespoon  parsley,  Cold  milk  or  stock. 

Peel  the  onions,  put  them  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  let  boil  till  sufficiently  soft  to  allow  the  middle  part  to 
be  taken  out;  the  time  will  depend  on  the  size  of  the  onions; 
a  small  onion  will  require  about  an  hour,  a  large  one  an  hour 
and  a  half  or  two  hours.  Take  any  kind  of  cooked  meat, 
small  pieces  of  ham,  bacon  or  fowl ;  mince  all  together,  add 
the  bread  crumbs  and  seasoning;  chop  and  add  the  pieces 
taken  from  the  onions,  bind  the  mixture  with  a  little  milk  or 
stock,  fill  the  onion  shells  with  it,  put  them  into  the  sauce- 
pan, pour  in  sufficient  hot  stock  to  half  cover  them  and  sim- 
mer for  little  more  than  half  an  hour.  Take  the  onions  from 
the  pan  when  cooked,  put  them  on  a  dish,  thicken  the  gravy 
with  a  dessertspoon  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water  and 
browning,  pour  it  round  the  onions  and  serve.  If  the  onions 
are  small,  use  more  than  the  number  given.  This  dish  can 
be  varied  by  putting  the  onions  in  the  oven  and  baking  after 
they  are  filled  and  covered  with  buttered  paper. 

POTATOES,  AU  GEATTN. 
Put  one  pint  of  hashed  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  a  shallow 
pan,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter ;  sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese;  pour  over  the  whole  one  cup  of  milk  and  bake 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  — Ida  M.  Hebr. 


122  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


BAKED  POTATOES. 

Altogether,  the  most  wholesome  way  to  cook  potatoes  is 
to  bake  them.  Select  those  as  nearly  of  a  size  as  possible, 
wash  and  scrub  them  thoroughly,  wipe  dry,  cut  off  a  slice  fiDm 
each  end  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  an  hour.  Serve  as 
soon  as  done.  — J.  B.  Smiley. 


ESCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Fill  a  baking  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs 
and  sliced  raw  potatoes;  to  each  layer  of  potatoes  add  bits  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  milk  until  the  top  is  covered 
and  bake  one  and  a  half  hours         — Mrs.  F.  E.  Owens. 


FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  the  potatoes  lengthwise  in  slices  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and  let  them  remain  in  cold  water 
for  an  hour  or  longer;  dry  in  a  cloth  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Before  they  are  quite  done,  and  for  the  purpose  of  making 
them  puff  up,  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  and  drain,  return 
them  to  the  lard  and  continue  the  frying  until  done.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  serve  hot.  —Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 


VEGETABLES.  123 


FRIED  POTATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  raw  potatoes,  fry  in  butter,  lard  or  beef- 
dripping,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  hot.  Very 
nice.  Sliced  boiled  potatoes  may  be  fried  the  same  way. 
A  very  nice  way  to  prepare  potatoes  is  to  boil  them  first  in 
their  jackets  and  while  they  are  warm  peel,  slice  and  fry. 
In  boiling  potatoes  the  goodness  may  all  be  retained  by  boil- 
ing them  in  their  jackets.  — Mrs.  Jones. 

CREAM  SAUCE  FOR  POTATOES. 

Rub  two  tablespoons  of  butter  with  one  of  flour  until 
smooth;  stir  into  one  pint  boiling  milk;  cook  until  creamy. 

— Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

Stir  two  cups  mashed  potato,  two  tablespoons  cream,  one 
of  chopped  onion,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  well  together ;  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  dip  in  egg,  and  fry 
in  butter.  — Mrs.  Bettie  M.  Custis. 

POTATO  STEW. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  eight  large  potatoes;  cut  tliree  thick 
slices  of  salt  pork  into  little  squares  and  put  them  in  the 
bottom  of  the  soup  kettle,  fry  thoroughly,  then  add  the  pota- 
toes and  one  large  tomato  peeled  and  sliced,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  sage  if  liked ;  cover  with  water  and  cook  until  the 
potatoes  break  in  pieces.  Keep  the  kettle  closely  covered. 
Cheap  and  good.  — J.  B.  Smiley. 


124  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

SARATOGA  CHIPS. 

Peel  potatoes  carefully,  cut  in  very  thin  slices  and  keep 
in  cold  water  over  night;  drain  oi?  the  water  in  the  morning 
and  rub  the  potatoes  between  napkins  or  towels  until  thor- 
oughly dry ;  then  put  a  handful  at  a  time  into  a  kettle  of  very 
hot  lard,  stirring  with  a  fork  so  that  they  may  not  adhere  to 
the  kettle  or  each  other.  As  soon  as  they  become  light  brown 
and  crisp  remove  quickly  with  a  skimmer  and  sprinkle  with 
salt  as  they  are  taken  up.  — Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 

SARATOGA  CHIPS. 

Peel  good-sized  potatoes,  slice  as  thin  and  evenly  as  pos- 
sible, and  soak  in  ice  water  an  hour ;  have  a  kettle  of  very  hot 
lard,  as  for  cakes;  put  a  few  at  a  time  into  a  towel  to  drain 
and  dry,  then  drop  them  into  the  boiling  lard,  stirring  them 
occasionally.  When  a  light  brown  take  them  out  with  a  skim- 
mer and  they  will  be  crisp  and  not  greasy.  Sprinkle  salt  over 
them  while  hot.  — Miss  Thecla  Pick. 

STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Select  smooth  potatoes  as  near  the  same  size  as  possible. 
Roast  them  thoroughly;  cut  off  an  end  from  each,  scoop  out 
the  potato  and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  add  also 
two  tablespoons  of  milk  for  six  potatoes,  beating  well.  Return 
the  potato  pulp  to  the  shells ;  stand  each  on  end  and  bake  for 
half  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  — E.  E.  Boden. 


VEGETABLES.  125 


COOKED  EICE. 

Wash  one-half  cup  rice  in  five  or  six  waters,  then  cover 
and  cook  in  two  and  one-half  cnps  salted  water,  very  slowly, 
on  the  back  of  the  stove,  for  one  hour;  then  add  one  pint  of 
milk  and  a  little  butter;  cook  slowly  about  two  hours  longer, 
then  remove  the  cover,  cook  fifteen  minutes,  turn  into  serving 
dish,  and,  while  still  hot,  cover  with  bits  of  butter,  sugar  and 
cinnamon.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

COOKED  RICE. 

Put  one-half  cup  well  washed  rice  in  granite  pan.  Add 
one  quart  of  milk,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  scant  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  mix  and  set  in  not  too  hot  an  oven.  Bake  slow- 
ly, without  stirring,  until  tender ;  requires  no  sauce ;  dust  with 
cinnamon  when  served.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 

RICE  (Southern). 

Put  half  a  cup  of  rice  into  a  quart  of  boiling  salted  water, 
boil  five  minutes  then  put  in  a  steamer  for  twenty  minutes, 
then  turn  into  a  strainer,  shake  lightly  allowing  a  stream  of 
cold  water  to  run  over  the  rice;  continue  this  treatment  until 
the  flakes  become  very  distinct  and  white  then  put  back  in 
steamer  until  thoroughly  heated. 


126  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

SPANISH  RICE. 

1  cup  rice,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

1  cup  cooked  tomatoes,        Salt  to  taste. 
1  tablespoon  butter. 
Boil  the  well-washed  rice  in  five  cups  salted  water  until 
tender,  blend  the  butter  and  flour  in  a  sauce  pan,  then  add 
the  tomatoes  and  more  salt  if  needed.     Mix,  heat  thoroughly 
and  serve.  — Mrs.  W.  F.  Meyers. 

!    '  ^  '  ^  ;!_■  !■:■■!     '     '      ■      I     :   :  :     \'u'  U 

HUBBARD  SQUASH. 
Cut  in  large  pieces  and  bake.     When  done,  remove  from 
the  shell,  mash  thoroughly  and  season  with  butter  and  salt. 
May  be  steamed  if  preferred.  — Mrs.  Owens. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  tomatoes,  put  in  a  well-buttered  tin  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice;  lay  a  greased 
paper  over  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. — Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 

BAKED   TOMATOES. 

Peel  small  round  tomatoes  and  put  in  a  shallow  baking 
tin  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each ;  sprinkle  salt,  pepper 
and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  over  eaeh  tomato;  place  in  a  hot 
oven  and  bake  nearly  an  hour.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


VEGETABLES  127 


ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Fill  a  buttered  pudding  dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
sliced  tomatoes  and  cracker  crumbs,  having  the  top  layer, 
crumbs.  Upon  each  layer  of  tomatoes  sprinkle  a  little  salt 
and  pepper,  and  upon  each  layer  of  crumbs  put  several  small 
lumpe  of  butter.    Bake.  — Sara  Barney. 

SAVOUKY  TOMATOES. 
FovLT  large  tomatoes,  half  pound  cooked  meat,  two  table- 
spoons cooked  rice,  one  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  quar- 
ter ounce  butter,  one  hard  boiled  egg,  half  a  raw  egg,  pepper 
and  salt.  Bake  the  tomatoes;  when  nearly  done,  cut  from 
the  top  a  piece  of  the  skin  about  the  size  of  a  quarter,  take 
out  some  of  the  pulp,  place  the  cases  on  a  baking  tin,  greased 
with  the  butter;  mince  the  meat,  mix  with  the  rice,  pepper, 
salt,  sauce  and  a  half  egg,  beaten;  fill  the  tomato  cases  with 
the  mixture  and  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  chop  the 
yolk  of  the  hard-boiled  egg,  chop  the  white  separate.  When 
the  tomatoes  are  ready  slip  them  on  a  dish  and  decorate  with 
the  chopped  egg.  — Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 

STEWED   TOMATOES. 
Stew  one  quart  tomatoes  and  one  large  onion  sliced  until 
tender.    Add  one-half  teaspoon  sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
tastt. 


128  WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

TUENIPS. 

Peel,  cut  in  slices  and  steam;  when  done,  mash,  add  salt, 
one  teaspoon  sugar,  two  tablespoons  milk  or  cream  and  a  little 
butter.  Very  nice,  also,  cut  in  slices,  cooked  in  boiling  salted 
water  and  served  in  slices  seasoned  with  butter  and  pepper. 

— Mrs.  Frances  Owens. 

SAUERKEAUT. 
In  October,  slice  good  firm  cabbage  heads,  after  the 
coarse  outer  leaves  and  large  fibers  have  been  removed;  put  a 
layer  of  cabbage  about  six  inches  thick  in  a  jar,  sprinkle  with 
a  handful  of  salt,  pound  down  with  a  wooden  potato  masher, 
and  so  continue  until  the  jar  is  nearly  filled;  cover  with  cab- 
bage leaves  and  a  cloth;  then  put  in  a  board  cover,  with  a 
stone  on  the  top  to  keep  the  cabbage  under  the  brine;  when 
the  kraut  begins  to  ferment  put  it  in  a  cool  place,  where  it 
will  not  freeze.  Will  be  ready  to  cook  in  four  or  five  weeks. 
Sauerkraut  may  be  served  cold  from  the  jar  or  may  be  cooked 
slowly  about  two  hours  in  salt  pork  fat.  A  better  way  to  cook 
kraut  is  to  squeeze  it  from  the  brine  and  cook  slowly  about 
four  hours  with  a  piece  of  smoked  ham  or  corned  beef  as 
preferred;  kraut  may  also  be  served  with  a  dressing  made  of 
one  tablespoon  of  lard  and  one  of  flour  browned  together  over 
the  fire  and  mixed  thoroughly  with  about  one  quart  of  the 
cooked  kraut.    Caraway  seed  may  be  added  if  preferred. 


Meats,  Fish,  Etc. 


"All  the  tributes  land  and  sea  afford". 

BOBATEB. 

I  pound  cooked  or  raw       1  cup  milk, 

chopped  meat — beef,        1  good  sized  slice  bread, 
mutton   or  veal,  or  soaked  in  the  milk, 

some  of  each.  2  eggs  beaten  light, 

L  ounca  buttei,  6  or  8  almonds,  ground  fine, 

1  onion,  sliced  thin  1  tablespoon  curry  powder, 

and  fried  in  the  Juice  of  one  lemon, 

buttei. 
Stir  together  and  bake  in  buttered  dish  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  boiled  rice  in  separate  dish. 

—Mrs.  C.  H.  Miller. 

BEEF   LOAF. 

To  one  pound  of  raw  chopped  beef  add  one  egg,  well 
beaten,  one-half  cup  cracker  or  bread  cruni-bs,  salt  and  peppei 
to  taste,  with  a  little  sage  or  onion,  if  wished  (good  with 
neither),  and  mould  into  a  loaf.  Place  several  pieces  of  but- 
ter on  top  and  put  in  a  dripping  pan  containing  a  little 
water.    Bake  about  two  hours,  basting  often. 

—Mrs,  E.  C.  0. 


130  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

BEEF  OLIVES. 

1  pound  steak,  2  ounces  bacon, 

1  eggf  i  ounce  flour, 

3  tablespoons  crumbs,  1  pint  stock  or  water 

2  tablespoons  sauce,  i  teaspoon  pepper. 

i  tablespoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  minced  herbs, 

Flatten  the  steak,  cut  into  thin  strips  about  three  inches 
wide.  Mince  the  bacon,  which  should  not  have  much  lean, 
mix  it  with  bread  crumbs,  herbs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  half 
the  beaten  egg;  spread  some  of  the  mixture  on  each  strip  of 
beef.  Eoll  up  the  strips  and  tie  each  with  a  piece  of  fine 
string.  Dip  the  rolls  into  remainder  of  the  egg  and  put  into 
a  stew  pan,  packing  them  lightly  to  keep  the  shape.  Add  the 
stock  or  water,  cover  the  pan  and  let  olives  simmer  for  about 
an  hour.  When  cooked,  take  from  the  pan;  mix  the  flour 
with  a  little  cold  water  or  stock,  stir  it  with  a  quarter  teaspoon 
of  browning  into  the  gravy,  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  then 
add  the  Worcester  sauce.  Eemove  the  strings,  arrange  the 
olives  on  a  dish  and  pour  gravy  round  them.  Veal  seasoning 
can  be  used  to  fill  them,  if  preferred,  or  an  onion,  chopped 
fine,  can  be  added  to  the  seasoning  given  above. 


MEATS.  131 


BROILED  BEEFSTEAK. 

All  steak  should  be  cut  at  least  three-quarters  of  an  inch 
thick^  and  should  never  be  pounded^  as  it  affords  ready  escape 
of  all  the  juices.  Heat  the  broiler  well  before  putting  on  the 
steak;  turn  frequently,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  When  the 
meat  is  cooked,  place  it  on  a  heated  platter,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  place  a  lump  of  butter  on  top;  turn  the 
steak  and  repeat  this  process,  so  as  to  have  both  sides  seasoned. 

— Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

BROWNED  BEEF  (Pot  Roast). 
Heat  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  kettle,  put  in  about 
three  pounds  of  beef  chuck,  which  has  been  seasoned  on  both 
sides  with  salt  and  pepper ;  add  clove  and  tiny  piece  of  onion ; 
cover  closely  so  the  meat  may  cook  in  its  own  juice,  t  which 
should  be  added  a  very  little  water  to  keep  from  burning. 
Ttirn  occasionally,  and  when  tender — in  about  four  hours — 
take  out  meat  and  make  a  gravy  by  stirring  a  tablespoon  of 
flour  in  the  drippings,  adding  hot  water  to  make  of  proper 
consistency.  The  onion  and  clove  may  be  omitted,  if  pre- 
ferred. Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. — 

CORNED  BEEF.     (Pressed.) 

Put  the  meat  in  cold  water,  skim  carefully  while  simmer- 
ing slowly  five  or  six  hours;  then  remove  the  bones,  pick  the 
meat  to  pieces,  mix  in  the  fat  so  it  will  be  marbled,  pack  in  a 
granite  pan,  press  with  a  heavy  weight  and  serve  cold  in  thin 
slices.  — Mrs.  Micks. 


132  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

FILLED  PORK. 

6  lbs.  shoulder  pork,  1  small  onion, 

1  cup  bread  crumbs,  Pepper  and  salt. 

Toast  the  coffee  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  cut  the  onion  in 
small  squares,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  mix  thor- 
oughly for  the  dressing.  Cut  deep  incisions  in  the  pork 
with  a  sharp  knife  and  fill  them  with  the  dressing;  if  any 
remains  spread  it  over  the  top  of  the  pork  and  roast  in  the 
oven.    Very  nice.  — Mrs.  William  Alton. 


MOCK  DUCK. 

Take  round  steak  and  spread  over  it  a  dressing  as  for 
chicken  or  turkey;  roll  and  tie  securely.  Bake  about  half 
an  hour  with  scraps  of  bacon,  or  beef  fat. 

— Mrs.  William  A.  Pors. 


POT  ROAST  OF  STEAK. 

Cut  a  round  of  beefsteak  into  pieces  not  too  large.  Cook 
slowly  in  a  kettle  containing  a  little  water  for  three  hours; 
then  let  the  water  boil  out,  add  butter  and  brown  nicely. 
Very  fine.  — Mrs.  Wm.  Crump. 


MEATS.  133 


EOAST  BEEF. 

Put  a  three  or  four-pound  roast  in  a  dry  pan  with  no 
seasoning  of  any  kind;  set  pan  on  a  brick  in  a  smoking  hot 
oven;  as  soon  as  the  roast  is  well  seared  over,  open  the  oven 
doors  and  decrease  the  heat  to  medium  as  soon  as  possible, 
then  close  the  doors  and  cook  very  slowly  until  done.  Beef 
roasted  in  this  way  is  excellent,  as  it  retains  all  its  juices  and 
flavor.  Keep  stock  on  hand  for  gravy,  as  there  will  be  none 
in  the  pan.  Seasoning  extracts  the  juices,  so  season  after  it  is 
served.  — Mrs.  Knox. 

ROULADEN. 
Take  round  beefsteak,  press  flat,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  cut  into  three  inch  squares,  spread  a  thin  slice  of  ham 
(fat  and  lean)  over  each  square,  and  sliced  onions  over  the 
ham;  roll  and  tie  firmly  with  a  string.  Place  a  medium- 
sized  kettle  over  a  moderate  fire  and  melt  in  it  a  good-sized 
piece  of  butter;  roll  the  rouladen  in  this,  pack  closely  to- 
gether, cover  well,  and  during  the  first  ten  minutes  of  sim- 
mering turn  them;  then  pour  on  gradually  enough  boiling 
water  for  gravy;  boil  slowly  forty-five  minutes  then  add  a 
little  flour  made  smooth  in  a  large  tablespoon  of  sour  cream ; 
cook  fifteen  minutes  longer,  then  remove  the  strings,  place 
the  rouladen  in  a  serving  dish  and  pour  the  gravy  over. 

— Clara  L.  Kuechenmeister. 


134  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

OLD  FASHIONED  BOILED  DINNER. 

Early  in  the  morning  put  a  four-pound  piece  of  corned 
beef  in  a  large  kettle  of  cold  water ;  simmer  slowly ;  about  ten 
o'clock  put  in  a  one  pound  piece  of  salt  pork,  a  few  small 
beets  with  unbroken  skin,  and  a  couple  of  large  carrots;  at 
eleven  o'clock  put  in  turnips  cut  in  three  or  four  pieces,  par- 
snips and  some  good  sized  peeled  potatoes;  add  salt  and  a 
pinch  of  red  pepper.  Serve  the  vegetables  in  separate  dishes. 
A  nice  dessert  with  this  dinner  is  boiled  Indian  pudding. 

— Mrs.  Micks. 

SPICED  BEEF. 

Season  raw  chopped  steak  with  salt,  pepper  and  spices  to 
taste;  add  two  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  five  table- 
spoons cream  and  a  small  piece  of  butter;  mix  and  make  into 
a  roll  with  enough  flour  to  bind  it  together,  put  in  a  pan  with 
a  little  butter  and  bake.    Slice  when  cold. 

— Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 

TO  BOIL  CORNED  BEEF. 

Put  the  beef  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover,  let  gradually 
come  to  a  boil,  and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  skimming  the 
grease  from  the  top  as  it  boils.  May  be  much  improved  by 
boiling  potatoes,  turnips  and  cabbage  with  it.  Allow  about 
twenty  minutes  to  each  pound  of  meat. 

— Rose  Kuehlthau. 


MEATS.  135 


TO  ROAST  BEEF. 

Select  a  good  rib  roast  and  wipe  with  a  damp  cloth  in- 
stead of  washing.  Put  a  dripping  pan  on  the  stove  until  it 
gets  smoking  hot.  Put  in  the  beef  without  seasoning  or 
dressing  of  any  kind,  let  it  sear  on  both  sides,  then  rub  with 
salt,  sprinkle  with  a  little  pepper  and  add  just  enough  boiling 
water  to  keep  it  from  burning.  Place  in  a  good  hot  oven  to 
roast,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  a  pound  and  fifteen  minutes 
for  the  pan.    Replenish  the  water  as  it  cooks  away. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

FILLET,  A  LA  JARDINIERE. 
Remove  the  skin  and  fat  from  a  good-sized  fillet  of  beef, 
lard  with  strips  of  bacon  on  both  sides.  Have  a  roasting  pan 
ready  in  which  has  been  browned  a  large  piece  of  butter; 
brown  the  fillet  on  both  sides,  then  gradually  add  one  cup 
sour  cream,  and,  if  necessary,  a  little  boiling  water;  baste 
often.  Roast  one  hour.  Serve  on  a  large  platter,  garnished 
with  different  vegetables — peas,  caulifiower,  small  potatoes? 
fried  whole,  and  mushrooms — each  vegetable  formed  in  fields. 

FRICADELLE. 
i  pound  beef,  -|  cup  cold  water, 

i  pound  veal,  3  eggs, 

■J  pound  pork,  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs. 


136  WEST   BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

Chop  the  meat  very  fine,  mix  with  the  other  ingredients, 
form  into  a  loaf  and  roast  two  hours  in  plenty  of  butter. 
Slices  of  bacon  on  top  improve  the  meat  wonderfully.  After 
the  loaf  is  browned  on  top  (it  must  not  be  turned)  pour  in 
a  half  or  a  whole  cup  of  boiling  water  to  prevent  burning. 

— Mrs.  William  A.  Pors. 

MEAT  LOAF  OR  HOCK. 
1  pound  beefsteak,  and        2  beaten  eggs, 
1  pound  pork,  chopped        |  small  loaf  bread  crumbs, 

fine  together. 
Season  to  taste  with  sage,  salt  and  pepper.     Mix  into 
loaf  and  bake  thirty  minutes.  — Mrs.  Lane. 

MEAT  LOAF. 

Take  one-third  pound  each  of  beef,  pork  and  veal, 
chopped  together  by  the  butcher.  Add  two  eggs,  pepper,  salt, 
little  nutmeg,  one  small  onion,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and 
baker's  roll,  soaked  in  hot  water  and  milk.  Make  into  a  loaf 
and  bake  one-half  hour.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

MEAT  PORCUPINE. 

Chop  lean  cooked  veal,  chicken  or  lamb  fine;  add  one- 
fourth  its  quantity  of  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and  a  little 
chopped    bacon;     season    highly     with     salt,     pepper    and 


MEAT3.  137 


lemon  juice;  moisten  with  beaten  egg  and  stock  or  water 
enough  to  shape  it.  Mould  into  an  oval  loaf,  insert  strips  of 
fat  baron,  put  in  shallow,  well-greased  pan  and  bake  till 
brown.    The  bacon  will  baste  the  meat  sufficiently. 

—Mrs.  Emil  C.  Pors. 

MEAT  SHAPE  (English). 

f  pound  cooked  meat,  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley, 

3  ounces  cooked  rice,  J  teaspoon  pepper, 

1  onion,  i  teaspoon  salt. 

3  tablespoons  gravy, 
Mince  the  meat  very  fine;  peel,  scald  and  mince  the 
onion,  mix  it  with  the  meat,  rice,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt. 
Bind  the  mixture  with  the  gravy,  and  turn  it  into  a  buttered 
basin  or  moulded  shape  and  steam  for  an  hour.  Thicken 
some  stock  with  butter  and  flour,  add  a  teaspoon  of  Worcester 
sauce.  Turn  out  the  shape  and  pour  gravy,  which  should 
be  a  good  brown  color,  around  it.  This  is  an  economical  way 
of  using  the  remnants  of  cold  meat,  vegetables  or  pieces  of 
bread.  Cold  carrot  or  any  other  vegetable  chopped  fine,  may 
be  mixed  with  the  meat  and  improves  the  flavor.  Pieces  of 
bread,  soaked  a  few  minutes  in  a  little  stock  or  milk,  beaten 
so  that  no  lumps  remain,  or  cold  potatoes,  mashed  smoothly, 
may  be  used  instead  of  rice.    An  egg  makes  the  dish  richer. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

10 


138  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

ROAST  LEG  OF  LAMB  (Sour). 

Eemove  all  skin  and  fat,  place  in  a  deep  dish  and 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  over,  taking  care  not  to  use  much,  as  it 
will  toughen  the  meat ;  then  add  several  small  onions,  or  one 
large  one,  cut  in  slices,  a  scant  tablespoon  of  whole  pepper, 
three  or  four  cloves,  one  bay  leaf  and  several  juniper  berries ; 
cover  with  vinegar,  which  if  very  strong,  should  tie  diluted 
with  water.  Leave  in  vinegar  from  two  to  four  days;  when 
ready  to  use  draw  narrow  strips  of  bacon  through  the  meat, 
pepper  and  salt  slightly,  place  in  a  hot  dripping  pan,  in  which 
has  been  melted  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  an  eggy  pour  in 
a  cup  of  boiling  water,  cover  and  put  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven,  basting  occasionally.  In  about  two  hours  the  roast 
should  be  done  and  a  rich  brown  in  color.  If  not  sour  enough 
add  some'  of  the  spiced  vinegar.  A  little  sour  cream  may  be 
used  to  thicken  gravy,  or  flour  and  water  if  preferred.  A 
slice  of  lemon  and  a  little  sugar  improves  the  gravy.  While 
in  the  vinegar  the  miCat  should  be  turned  over  every  day. 
Beef  roast  (sour)  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

— Eose  Kuehlthan. 


ESCALLOPED  MEAT  OF  ANY  KIND. 

Chop  cooked  meat  fine,  moisten  with  gravy,  or  if  you 
have  none,  use  water  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Place  in 
deep  dish  and  cover  with  mashed  potatoes  mixed  with  a 
beaten  egg.    Bake  until  light  brown. 


MEATS.  139 


ESCAIJ.OPED  MEAT. 

Fill  a  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  mashed  potatoes  and 
finely  chopped  meat;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
Cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs,  add  bits  of  bntter  and  bake 
until  well  browned.  A  very  small  quantity  of  meat  serves  in 
this  way  to  make  a  palatable  dish. 

— Mrs.  E.  S.  Lynch. 

POT  EOAST  OF  VEAL. 

Brown  one-half  cup  butter  in  a  kettle,  then  put  in  five 
pounds  lean  veal,  and  brown  it  well  on  all  sides,  being  careful 
not  to  bum  it.  Add  a  large  cup  of  thick  sour  cream;  turn 
the  meat  until  the  cream  is  thoroughly  browned,  then  add 
salt,  one  bay  leaf,  little  pepper,  and  water  enough  to  boil 
about  two  hours.  Let  the  water  almost  boil  out,  then  remove 
the  meat;  add  water  and  flour  to  thicken  the  gravy,  and 
strain.    Very  nice.  — Mrs.  Frances  E.  Ott. 

PRESSED  VEAL. 

Boil  two  or  three  pounds  of  veal  until  tender;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  let  cook  a  little  longer,  then  take 
out  the  meat  and  chop  very  fine.  Let  the  gravy  cook  down 
until  thick,  then  pour  over  meat,  press  into  mould  and  let 
stand  in  a  cold  place  over  night.  — Mrs.  Ralph  H.  Norris. 


140  WEST  BEND  COOK   BOOK. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Chop  three  pounds  veal  and  three-quarters  pound  lean 
pork  fine,  remove  all  skin  and  shreds ;  add  some  soaked  bread, 
pepper,  salt  and  one  beaten  egg.  Mix  thoroughly  and  mould 
in  form  of  loaf;  roll  in  toasted  bread  crumbs,  and  roast  in 
quick  oven  two  hours;  use  plenty  of  butter  and  baste  fre- 
quently. — Mrs.  Ernst  Franckenberg. 

VEAL  LOAP. 

2  pounds  veal,  3  eggs  (well  beaten), 
1  pound  pork,                      i  cup  cracker  crumbs. 

Chop  the  meat  fine,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and 
sage.    Bake  nearly  an  hour,  basting  with  butter  and  water. 

— Rose  Kuehlthau. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

3  pounds  raw  veal  or  1  tablespoon  salt, 
beef  (chopped  fine),        1  teaspoon  pepper, 

6  soda  crackers  (rolled),  ^  teaspoon  sage, 

3  eggs,  Butter  size  of  walnut. 

Mix  thoroughly,  pack  in  deep  covered  pan.  Bake  an 
hour.  — Mrs.  Fred  Wolfrum. 


MEATS.  141 


YEAL  LOAF. 

2  pounds  veal,  i  teaspoon  allspice, 

I  pound  pork,  i-  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

J  cup  bread  crumbs,  J  teaspoon  cloves, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  i  lemon   (juice), 
i  teaspoon  pepper,  2  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  melted  1  teaspoon  onion  (chopped 
butter.  fine). 

Have  the  butcher  chop  the  veal  and  salt  pork  together 
fine,  soak  the  stale  crumbs  in  just  enough  milk  to  moisten 
and  mix  all  the  ingredients  together  well;  put  half  the  mix- 
ture in  a  deep,  buttered  tin  and  then  lay  lengthwise,  close 
together,  as  many  cold,  hard-boiled,  shelled  eggs  as  there  is 
room  for  in  the  tin  (usually  five)  ;  cover  with  the  rest  of  the 
mixture,  then  cover  the  top  with  thin  slices  of  salt  pork, 
pour  over  four  tablespoons  of  water  and  bake  an  hour  or  a 
little  longer.  When  ready  to  serve  slice  crosswise  of  the  loaf 
with  a  sharp  knife  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

— Mrs.  James  Toule. 

VEAL  POT  ROAST  . 
Brown  a  thick  piece  from  the  leg  or  breast  of  veal  in  a 
little  beef  suet,  then  add  hot  water  and  cook  slowly  one  and 
one-half  hours.     Season  delicately  before  serving. 

—Mrs.  F.  E.  Walbridge. 


142  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

VEAL  POT  EOAST. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  three  or 
four  pounds  of  veal  into  a  smoking  hot  iron  kettle.  Keep 
turning  the  meat  until  all  sides  are  well  seared,  then  sprinkle 
a  tablespoon  of  flour  over  it,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
add  a  little  hot  water.  Watch  it  carefully,  as  the  flour  has  a 
tendency  to  make  it  scorch,  and  replenish  the  water  as  it 
boils  down.  Cook  slowly  about  two  hours.  Twenty  minutes 
before  serving  put  in  some  peeled  potatoes;  when  they  are 
done  place  the  meat  on  a  platter  and  the  potatoes  around  it; 
pour  the  thick  brown  gravy  over  the  whole.  Or,  instead  of 
the  potatoes,  add  dumplings  made  of  one  cup  flour,  one  heap- 
ing teaspoon  baking  powder,  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt  and 
milk  to  malce  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  in  kettle  a  tablespoonf ul 
at  a  time  and  boil,  closely  covered,  for  twenty  minutes. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


MOCK  TERRAPIN. 

Cut  a  calf s  liver  in  slices  and  fry  in  butter  until  nearly 
done;  then  chop  coarsely,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 
onion ;  add  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped,  one  cup  of  hot 
water  and  a  little  sprinkle  of  flour.  Cover  closely  and  let 
simmer  slowly.  — Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 


MEATS.  143 


CALF'S  LIVER  AND  BACON. 

Slice  the  liver  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  pour  hot  water 
over  it  and  let  remain  a  few  minutes  to  clear  from  blood; 
dry  with  a  cloth.  Cut  about  a  pound  of  bacon  into  as  many 
thin  slices  as  there  are  of  liver.  Fry  the  bacon  to  a  nice  crisp 
and  keep  hot;  then  fry  the  liver  in  the  same  pan,  having  sea- 
soned it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dredged  it  in  a  little  flour. 
Serve  with  a  slice  of  bacon  on  each  slice  of  liver. 

— Mrs.  Victor  Husting. 

CALF'S  HEAD  CHEESE. 

Boil  a  calf's  head  in  water  enough  to  cover,  until  the 
meat  leaves  the  bones;  put  in  wooden  bowl,  chop  fine,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Lay  a 
cloth  in  colander,  put  meat  into  it,  fold  the  cloth  closely 
over  it,  cover  with  a  plate  and  put  a  weight  on  it.  Slice 
when  cold.  — Rosa  Kuelthau. 

SAUR  BRATEN. 

Cover  a  rump  of  beef  with  vinegar  and  let  it  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  take  half  the  vinegar  and  as  much 
water,  add  a  few  peppercorns,  cloves,  bay  leaves,  one  onion, 
a  little  allspice,  half  cup  raisins,  and  half  cup  sweet  almonds. 
Let  beef  stew  in  this  liquid  until  tender,  then  take  it  out  and 
slice.  Add  to  the  gravy  one  tablespoon  brown  sugar,  and  two 
tablespoons  flour  browned  in  a  piece  of  butter  and  stirred 
very  smooth.    If  that  does  not  thicken  gravy  enough  add  two 


144  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

or  three  gingersnaps  stirred  to  a  smooth  paste  with  hot  water. 
Put  the  sliced  meat  back  in  the  kettle  and  let  it  simmer  slow- 
ly until  ready  to  serve.     Serve  with  potato  dumplings. 

— ]\[rs.  A.  B.  Liebermann. 

SOUE  FLEISCH. 
Brown  one  tablespoon  of  flour  in  one  tablespoon  of  lard ; 
add  a  pinch  of  sugar,  an  onion  cut  fine  and  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  When  the  onion  is  cooked  soft,  add  a  tablespoon  of  cold 
water,  then  pour  in  slowly  enough  hot  water  to  make  a 
smooth  gravy.  Season  with  spices,  cloves,  allspice,  nutmeg 
and  vinegar  to  suit  taste.  Any  cold  beef  or  tongue,  thinly 
sliced,  can  be  used  in  this  gravy.  — Grandma  Pick. 

SWEET  AND  SOUE  TONGUE  (French). 

Boil  a  tongue  in  salt  water  until  tender;  then  peel,  cut 
in  slices,  and  cook  about  half  an  hour  in  the  following  gravy ; 
To  one  large  tablespoon  of  .flour  and  one  of  butter  well 
browned  together,  add  a  good  sized  onion,  about  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  three  tablespoons  vinegar,  a  few  cloves,  one  bay 
leaf,  half  a  teaspoon  ginger,  sugar  to  taste,  a  few  raisins 
and  two  or  three  slices  of  lemon. — Mrs.  Schlesinger  Weil. 

TONGUE  CUTLET. 

Boil  a  beef  tongue  until  very  tender;  when  cold,  peel,  cut 
in  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip 
in  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  brown  in  butter. 

— Mrs.  Emma  Wilkie. 


MEATS.  145 


THEEiE  WAYS  TO  USE  COLD  MEATS  OR  FOWLS. 

FRENCH  TOAST. 
Mince  the  meat  fine,  put  in  a  stew  pan  with  gravy  left 
from  day  before  roast  or  stew,  season  with  chopped  celery  or 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper;  v/hile  this  stews  gently  for  ten  min- 
utes, toast  and  butter  enough  bread  to  cover  a  hot  platter; 
spread  a  large  spoonful  of  the  stew  on  each  piece  of  the  toast 
and  serve  at  once. 

CROQUETTES. 

To  one  pint  of  minced  cold  meat,  add  one  teacup  of 
bread  crumbs,  one  beaten  egg,  salt  and  pepper;  make  into 
little  pats  and  fry  brown  in  drippings  or  butter. 

BREAKFAST  BACON. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  an  inch  deep  with 
well  seasoned  cold  meat  and  enough  stock  or  gravy  to  moisten 
well.  Cover  the  meat  with  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed 
potatoes;  put  bits  of  butter  over  the  top  and  bake  a  light 
brown  in  a  quick  oven.  — Mrs.  J.  H.  Williamson. 

TO  USE  SMALL  PIECES  OF  COLD  HAM. 

Chop  the  ham  fine,  add  a  few  bread  crumbs,  a  little  milk 
and  season  with  mustard,  if  desired;  mix  thoroughly;  line 
gem  irons  with  it,  patting  it  in  firmly;  break  an  egg  in  each 
ring  and  bake  quickly  until  the  eggs  whiten  on  the  top. 

— Mrs.  Tippett. 


146  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

HASHED  MEAT  NO.  1. 

i  pound  cold  meat,  4  ounce  flour, 

J  ounce  butter,  4  pint  stock  or  water, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  1  onion, 

J  teaspoon  pepper,  3  cloves 

Cut  meat  into  slices,  trimming  off  the  outside  brown  edge 
and  any  gristle.  Peel  and  slice  the  onion;  melt  the  butter 
in  a  stew  pan;  fry  the  slices  of  onion  a  light  brown,  stir  in 
the  flour,  add  the  stock  or  water.  Let  the  sauce  boil  a  few 
minutes  then  add  the  cloves,  pepper  and  salt,  lay  in  the 
slices  of  cold  meat,  put  on  the  back  of  stove  where  it  can  sim- 
mer very  gently,  but  not  boil,  or  the  meat  will  be  hard.  If  the 
sauce  is  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  stock  or  water  before 
putting  in  the  meat.  Let  it  simmer  ten  or  fifteen  minutes; 
serve  with  sippets  of  toasted  bread  or  a  wall  of  mashed  pota- 
toes. If  the  sauce  is  not  brown  enough,  add  a  little  brown 
flour  or  a  teaspoon  of  mushroom  catsup. 

HASHED  MEAT. 

Slices  of  cooked  meat,  2  tablespoons  crumbs, 

1   teaspoon  parsley,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 

i  teaspoon  thyme,  1  egg, 

i  teaspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Trim  the  slices  of  meat;  mix  the  chopped  parsley  and 

thyme,  pepper  and  salt  with  bread  crumbs ;  break  the  egg  on 

a  plate,  beat  slightly ;  dip  slices  of  meat  in  the  egg,  then  into 

bread  crumbs  covering  both  sides  of  meat.     Put  about  an 


MEATS.  147 


ounce  of  butter  or  very  good  dripping  into  a  pan;  let  it  get 
hot  and  fry  the  meat  a  light  brown.  Make  a  sauce  of  butter 
and  flour,  as  directed  for  hashed  meat  No.  1,  add  the  lemon 
juice  after  sauce  is  taken  from  the  fire ;  arrange  the  meat  on  a 
serving  dish  and  pour  sauce  around  it.  This  dish  can  be 
varied  by  laying  the  slices  of  meat  on  a  bed  of  vegetables, 
such  as  peas,  mashed  potatoes,  French  or  haricot  beans. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

FRENCH   STEW. 

Put  a  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour  in  a  kettle, 
cook  until  brown,  add  a  small  minced  onion  and  three  pounds 
of  veal,  ut  in  small  pieces.  Cover  with  a  quart  of  water,  add 
salt  ar  .  pepper,  and  cook  slowly  for  two  hours. 

—Mrs.  W.  S.  Doig. 

HUNGARIAN  STEW. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter,  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  in  a  kettle 
and  add  a  sliced  onion ;  let  it  brown,  then  put  in  about  three 
pounds  good  round  steak,  cut  into  pieces  half  an  inch  square, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne;  dredge  well 
with  flour.  Let  all  brown  together,  then  add  boiling  water, 
a  little  at  a  time,  and  cook  until  tender.  The  gravy  must 
be  a  rich  brown.     Serve  with  dumplings. 

— Mrs.  A.  B.  Liebermann. 


148  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CROQUETTES. 

To  make  appetizing  croquettes  from  the  remnants  of 
meat,  poultry,  etc.,  it  is  necessary  to  use  the  same  discrimi- 
nation that  is  requisite  in  making  good  soup — that  is,  care 
must  be  taken  that  one  seasoning  has  not  undue  prominence 
over  another — all  being  so  finely  blended  that  they  shall  seem 
as  one  to  the  palate.  Take  any  pieces  of  cold  meat,  add  egg 
cooked  in  any  way,  if  it  be  on  hand,  and  mince  fine.  Into 
three  cups  of  meat  thus  minced,  chop  two  level  teaspoons  of 
sage  and  a  piece  of  onion,  the  size  of  a  small  nutmt  •.  Next 
add  half  cup  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  for  the  above  mount 
of  meat,  a  well  beaten  egg,  one  cup  or  less  of  good  grav\  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  The  gravy  may  be  omitted  by  substitu- 
ting a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  tablespoon  flour 
and  enough  hot  water  to  make  the  croquettes  moist.  Roll  a 
heaping  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  in  the  hands  to  a  flat  cake 
and  fry  in  butter  in  a  frying  pan ;  or  it  may  be  moulded  into 
round  or  cone-shaped  croquettes  and  fried  in  deep  fat,  like 
doughnuts.  These  croquettes  are  very  nice  made  small  and 
served  on  a  platter  of  scrambled  eggs,  garnished  with  parsley. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


MEATS.  149 


BAKED  SWEETBREADS. 

Put  three  sweetbreads  into  warm  water  to  draw  out  the 
blood.  Let  them  remain  little  more  than  an  hour,  then  put 
into  boiling  water  and  let  simmer  ten  minutes  to  make  firm. 
Drain,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  dip 
in  egg  again,  sprinkle  with  fresh  crumbs,  pour  a  little  melted 
butter  over  them,  put  into  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  for  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Place  sweetbreads  on  toast,  and 
pour  a  good,  brown  gravy  around  but  not  over  them.  They 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner  and  fried  instead  of 
baked. 

STEWED  SWEETBREADS. 

1  sweetbread,  i  ounce  flour, 

J  pint  white  stock,  ^  teaspoon  parsley, 

i  pint  milk,  J  teaspoon  salt, 

i  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  Pinch  of  pepper. 
1  ounce  butter, 
Wash,  trim,  blanch  and  divide  the  sweetbread,  melt  the 
butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  stir  in  flour,  rub  smooth,  add  the  stock, 
milk,  pepper  and  salt;  let  boil,  put  in  the  sweetbread  and 
simmer  thirty  or  forty  minutes  until  tender;  then  add  the 
lemon  juice  and  sprinkle  in  the  chopped  parsley.  Serve  on 
toast. 


150  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


FRICASSEED  RABBIT. 

Cut  the  rabbit  in  pieces,  put  into  a  stew  pan  and  season 
with  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  a  little  chopped  parsley;  pour 
in  a  pint  of  hot  water  (or  veal  stock  if  you  have  it),  and 
stew  slowly  until  tender ;  when  about  half  done,  add  some  bits 
of  butter,  rolled  in  flour  and  just  before  taking  from  the 
stove  add  half  a  cup  of  thick  cream  with  a  dash  of  nutmeg. 
Stir  well,  but  do  not  boil  after  the  cream  is  in  or  it  will 
curdle.    '  — Rose  Kuehlthau. 

LUNG  SAUSAGE. 

Use  recipe  for  filling  for  poultry  or  veal's  breast,  given  in 
book,  omitting  the  apple  and  using  calf  lungs.  Fill  casing, 
not  too  stiff,  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Very  nice  to  have  on 
hand ;  will  keep  a  week.  Prepare  the  sausage  for  the  table  by 
frying  in  butter.  — Mrs  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 

PANNHAUSE  OR  PENNSYLVANIA  SCRAPPLE. 

Clean  a  hog's  head  well;  cut  into  four  or  five  pieces  and 
soak  in  cold  water  over  night  to  remove  blood.  Boil  until  the 
meat  falls  from  the  bones;  use  three  gallons  of  water  for  a 
whole  head  and  keep  that  amount  until  meat  is  done.  Let 
stand  until  cool,  then  take  off  the  fat  that  rises  and  put  away 
to  use  in  frying  the  pannhause.    Put  the  meat  over  the  firt- 


MEATS.  151 


again;  when  warm,  remove  all  bones  and  cut  the  meat  into 
small  pieces,  without  chopping.  Then  put  meat  and  liquid 
over  the  fire,  and  when  boiling  stir  in  equal  parts  of  Indian 
meal  and  buckwheat  flour  until  the  consistency  of  ordinary 
mush,  or  until  the  spoon  will  stand  erect  in  it.  Season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  into  pans  to  cool.  The  next 
day  it  can  be  placed  on  boards  to  keep  until  wanted  for  use. 
When  wanted,  slice  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides  and  it  is 
ready  for  tlie  table.  — Mrs.  E.  S.  Lynch. 

SOUP  MEAT. 

Pick  the  meat  in  pieces,  add  a  small  bowl  of  the  broth, 
season  well,  press  with  a  heavy  weight  and  serve  in  thin 
slices.  Another  nice  way  is  to  slice  an  onion  fine,  mix  with 
the  meat,  put  through  the  chopper,  season  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt;  add  cracker  crumbs,  form  into  balls  and 
fry  in  butter. 

BAKED  HAM. 

Get  the  best  in  the  market,  not  too  salt,  cut  the  outside 
and  shank  off.  Mix  flour  enough  in  one  quart  of  cold  water 
to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Poll  the  dough  out,  lay  the  ham  in 
it  and  pinch  together  like  a  turnover.  Bake  a  thirteen  pound 
ham  four  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Leave  the  cap  on  until 
cold.  —Mrs.  W.  R.  Lyle. 


152  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

PICKLED  PIGS'  FEET. 

Cook  a  leg  of  veal  and  three  pigs'  feet,  until  tender,  in 
water  to  which  has  been  added  salt,  pepper,  one-half  a  bay 
leaf,  three  onions  sliced,  and  one-half  a  lemon  sliced;  when 
nearly  done  add  three-fourths  cup  of  vinegar.  When  done 
remove  the  bones,  cut  the  meat  into  coarse  pieces  and  strain 
the  gravy  over  it.    When  cold  slice  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Marie  Pick. 

EIER  KUCHEN  AND  SOUR  GRAVY. 

Cut  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  ham  into  two-inch 
squares,  fry  on  both  sides  and  spread  in  flat  tin,  then  turn 
the  gravy  over  it.  Beat  four  eggs,  add  pinch  of  salt,  a  little 
pepper,  and  a  pint  of  milk;  turn  this  mixture  over  the  ham 
and  bake  brown.  Serve  with  mashed  potatoes  and  sour 
gravy.  — Mrs.  Frank  Zimmerling. 

CATSUP  GRAVY. 

Cut  meat  remnants  into  small  pieces;  add  enough  water 
to  cover;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  little  sugar  and  one-half 
cup  catsup.  Slice  and  add  one  large  onion  and  one  apple. 
Simmer  one-half  hour.  — Mrs.  Gerlach. 


MEAT3.  153 


GEAVY  FOR  COLD  MEATS. 

Brown  together  a  tablespoon  of  lard  and  a  tablespoon  of 
flour ;  add  a  small  finely  minced  onion  and  a  heaping  teaspoon 
of  sugar.  Stir  together  until  a  nice  brown,  then  take  from 
the  fire  and  add  one-fourth  cup  vinegar,  and  water,  a  little 
at  a  time,  until  it  has  consistency  of  gravy.  If  any  meat 
gravy  is  left  over  add  it  and  season  the  whole  with  a  little 
allspice,  cloves^  pepper,  salt  and  a  bay  leaf.  Put  in  a  few 
raisins,  and  lastly,  the  slices  of  cold  meat.  Let  boil  up  thor- 
oughly and  serve  hot.  The  browned  sugar  may  harden  when 
liquid  is  poured  in,  but  it  will  soon  dissolve. 

— Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 

SWEET  SOUR  GRAVY  FOR  MEATS. 

Two  cups  water,  one  big  spoon  each  molasses,  vinegar, 
and  flour  made  smooth  with  water.  Nice  served  with  po- 
tato dumplings.  — Mrs.  Fred  Haase. 

SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  TONGUE. 

Brown  one  tablespoon  of  flour  in  one  tablespoon  of  lard 
and  butter  mixed.  Add  to  taste,  vinegar,  sugar,  salt,  spices 
and  laurel  leaves,  and  pour  over  tongue  about  twenty  minutes 
before  serving.     Serve  with  prunes.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 


154  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Heat  one-half  ciip  butter  to   golden  brown ;   add   two 
tablespoons  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  one  pint  hot  water  or  stock. 


MINT  SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons  chopped         1  tablespoon  sugar, 
mint,  J  pint  vinegar. 

The  mint  should  be  freshly  gathered.  Wash  it  well; 
pick  leaves  from  the  stalk,  chop  them  very  fine,  put  the 
vinegar  in  a  sauce  tureen,  stir  in  the  sugar,  let  it  dissolve,  add 
the  chopped  mint.    Serve  with  roast  lamb. 

— Mrs.  F.  L.  Maryon. 


CURRY  SAUCE. 

1  tablespoon  onion,  2  tiiblespuons  flour, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  pint  milk. 

1  tablespoon  powder. 
Cook  the  chopped  onion  in  the  butter  five  minutes,  mix 
the  curry  powder  with  the  flour  stir  it  slowly  into  the  butter 
being  careful  not  to  let  it  burn,  then  add  the  hot  milk  gradual- 
ly.   Nice  served  with  fish  and  chicken. 


MEATS.  155 


CHICKEN  PIE. 

Boil  chicken  until  tender;  remove  the  bones;  line  a  dish 
with  crust  made  of  sweet  cream,  little  salt,  flour  and  baking 
powder,  rolled  to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch;  place  the 
chicken  and  gravy  in  the  dish,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter,  sift  a  little  flour  over  the  top,  put  on  the  crust  for  the 
cover,  spread  with  a  thin  layer  of  butter,  slit  in  several  places, 
close  firmly  around  the  edge  and  bake  until  a  nice  light 
brown.  One  chicken  will  make  a  pie  in  a  three  quart  dish, 
three  chickens  will  make  two  pies  in  four  quart  dishes. 

— Mr^.  C.  T.  Tracy. 

CHICKEN  CEOQUETTES. 

To  one  three-pound  chicken  add 

1  pair  sweetbreads,  1  teaspoon  parsley, 

chop  together ;  to  1  teaspoon  onion  juice, 

1  pint  meat  take  1  teaspoon  salt, 

I  pint  milk,  ^  teaspoon  pepper, 

1  large  spoon  butter,  i  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

2  tablespoons  flour.  Pinch  of  cayenne. 

Chop  the  parsley,  mix  ingredients  well,  make  into  four- 
teen croquettes  and  dip  in  a  mixture  of  one  egg,  and  one 
tablespoon  of  hot  water.  Poll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in 
hot  fat.  — Mrs.  J.  J.  Williams. 


156  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CREAM  CHICKEN. 

Boil  a  four-pound  chicken  and  four  sweetbreads  until 
tender.  When  cold  cut  up,  as  for  salad,  in  a  sauce  pan;  put 
one  qua,rt  of  cream  in  another  pan  to  heat ;  stir  five  even 
tablespoons  of  flour  into  four  large  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
and  pour  into  the  hot  cream,  stirring  until  it  thickens ;  flavor 
with  half  a  small  onion,  grated;  season  with  red  and  black 
pepper.  Put  chicken,  sweetbreads,  one  can  of  mushrooms  and 
dressing  in  baking  dish,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  pieces 
of  butter  and  bake  thirty  minutes;  mushrooms  may  be 
omitted  if  they  cannot  be  obtained.     — ^Mrs.  Col.  Lake. 

FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt,  then  fry 
a  nice  brown  in  two  tablespoons  butter.  Keep  adding  a 
little  water  while  frying  until  chicken  is  done.  A  young 
chicken  will  fry  in  about  an  hour. 

— Mary  Bertram. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  two  chickens  in  as  little  water  as  possible  until 
meat  is  tender;  remove  the  bones  and  skin,  pick  the  meat 
into  fine  pieces,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  mix  with  the 
liquid  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled,  place  in  a  porcelain 
dish,  cover  with  a  cloth  and  press  with  heavy  weight  several 
hours.    When  served  cut  in  thin  slices. 

— Mrs.  M.  R.  Adams. 


MEATS.  157 


SCALLOPED  CHICKEN. 

Divide  the  chicken  into  joints  and  boil  until  the  meat 
leaves  the  bones  readily,  then  thicken  the  water  in  which  the 
chicken  was  boiled  with  flour  and  season  with  butter  and 
salt.  Fill  a  deep  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  toasted  bread 
crumbs,  shredded  chicken  and  slices  of  hot  boiled  potatoes, 
having  crumbs  on  top;  moisten  well  with  gravy  and  bake 
slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  — Mrs.  J.  F.  Tearnan. 

CHICKEN  LOAF. 

2  chickens,  1  cup  chicken  broth, 

1  tablespoon  melted  3  tablespoons  crackers, 

butter,  2  eggs  beaten. 

Put  the  cooked  meat  through  the  chopper,  add  the  hot 
broth,  butter,  cracker  crumbs  and  egg8;  mix  into  a  loaf,  put 
in  buttered  tin,  cover  top  and  sides  with  bits  of  butter  and 
cracker  crumbs  and  bake  thirty  minutes,  basting  often  with 
some  of  the  broth.  — Mrs.  Dennett. 

ROAST  TURKEY. 

Select  a  plump  young  turkey  weighing  about  ten  pounds, 
dean  and  soak  in  salt  water  over  night;  in  the  morning 
tsprinkle  inside  with  salt  and  pepper,  stuff  with  dressing  pre- 


168  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

ferrecl,  sew  up  with  cord,  sprinkle  outside  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, lay  in  a  pan,  breast  down,  cover  with  slices  of  fat  salt 
pork  and  hake  slowly  four  hours.  Serve  with  cranberry  sauce 
or  currant  jelly.  Another  nice  way  when  turkey  is  prepared 
for  the  oven  is  to  cover  with  a  thick  paste  of  flour  and  water 
iufetead  of  the  pork,  and  baste  often  with  the  drippings;  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  must  be  kept  well  covered  with  water. 
Cook  the  neck,  liver,  gizzard  and  heart  until  tender,  chop 
and  add  to  the  gravy.  Any  fowl  may  be  roasted  the  same 
way,  but  in  roasting  goose  put  it  in  the  oven  in  a  dripping 
pan  on  a  rack,  and  when  it  begins  to  fry,  prick  thoroughly 
with  a  meat  fork  several  different  times  to  extract  the  surplus 
fat.  Eemove  the  goose  when  dry  (in  about  an  hour),  dredge 
with  flour  and  salt,  put  bits  of  butter  over  the  top  and  bake 
three  hours  longer.  Another  very  nice  way  to  cook  a  fowl 
is  to  boil  it  slowly  in  a  kettle  with  very  little  water,  or  steam 
in  a  steamer  an  hour  before  putting  it  in  the  oven  to  roast. 

— ^^S  elected. 

ALMOND   DRESSING   FOR   TURKEY. 
J  cup  almonds,  2  yolks  of  eggs, 

5  ouncea  butter,  2  whites  of  eggs,  beaten, 

2  cups  grated  bread.  Little  nutmeg. 

Pound  the   almonds,   mixed   with   a  little  water,  to  a 
paste.  Amanda  Pranckenberg. 


MEATS.  159 


DEESSHSTGS. 

Moisten  soft  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  highly  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper,  thyme  and  sage,  with  melted  butter  and  hot 
water.  Mashed  potato  seasoned  with  onions,  sage,  salt  and 
pepper,  either  alone  or  mixed  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs, 
makes  a  nice  dressing;  equal  parts  of  bread  crumbs,  chopped 
apples  and  boiled  onions,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage, 
makes  an  excellent  dressing  for  roast  goose  or  duck.  Chopped 
oysters,  celery,  raisins  or  dates,  when  added  to  moistened  bread 
or  cracker  crumbs,  makes  a  pleasing  variety  Toasted  bread 
is  nice  to  use  in  dressing.  — Mrs.  M.  Adams. 

FILLING  FOE  CHICKEN. 

Chop  the  liver  and  gizzard  fine  and  cook  in  a  little  but- 
ter; when  done,  add  two  slices  of  bread  which  have  been 
soaked  in  sweet  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  a  little  chopped  onion, 
a  little  butter,  allspice  and  nutmeg. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Wittenberg. 

FILLING  FOE  POULTEY  OE  VEAL'S  BEEAST. 

Soal^  bread  in  milk  or  water;  fry  a  small  onion,  cut  fine, 
in  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  add  the  liver,  heart  and  gizzard, 
chopped  fine,  stir  until  cooked.  Squeeze  the  bread,  add  two 
well  beaten  eggs,  one  apple,  chopped  fine,  pinch  each  of  nut- 
meg and  sage,  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  sugar.  Stir  all  together.  With  veal's  breast  use 
calf's  liver.  — Amanda  Franckenberg. 


160  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

TUKKEY  FILLING  (Fine). 

Cut  wheat  bread  in  small  squares  and  roast  in  a  little 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  then  add  the  liver  of  the  turkey 
chopped  fine,  two  beaten  eggs  and  some  fine  cut  parsley.  Mix 
well  and  fill  the  turkey.  — Mrs.  Matthew  Eegner. 

JEWISH  DRESSING. 

Brown  a  large  onion,  sliced,  in  one  tablespoon  biitter; 
add  one  gizzard,  chopped;  brown  nicely,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,,  then  add  stale  bread,  dipped  in  water,  and  one  beaten 
egg.  Five  cents  worth  of  chopped  beef  and  pork  may  be  used 
instead  of  gizzard,  if  preferred.        — Mrs.  H.  Gerlach. 

TO  UTILIZE  EVERY  PART  OF  A  DUCK  OR  GOOSE. 

Take  the  head  with  most  of  the  neck,  the  feet,  the  ends 
of  the  wings,  the  gizzard,  heart  and  liver  of  a  duck  or  goose. 
Remove  the  eyes  and  chop  off  the  bill,  being  careful  not  to 
mutilate  the  tongue,  as  that  is  considered  a  very  dainty  morsel. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  the  feet,  draw  off  the  skin  and  cut 
off  the  claws.  Wash  all  thoroughly.  Put  a  quart  of  salted 
water  with  a  celery  root,  a  parsley  root  and  a  little  carrot  into 
a  kettle  and  add  the  duck  trimmings.  When  the  meat  is  al- 
most tender  add  a  cup  of  soup  stock,  or  beef  extract,  and  one 
cup  of  rice.  Let  it  boil  slowly  until  the  rice  is  tender  and  the 
liquid  nearly  all  absorbed.    Serve  with  celery. 

— Mrs.  A.  B.  Liebermann. 


FISH.  161 

BAKED  FISH  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Place  the  fish  in  a  dripping  pan  with  salt,  pepper,  small 
lumps  of  butter,  and  two  tablespoons  of  tomato  catsup  (or 
strained  canned  tomatoes)  poured  over  the  top.  Just  before 
baking  add  a  little  boiling  water;  baste  frequently  while  bak- 
ing. A  four-pound  fish  must  bake  one  hour.  When  tender 
and  nicely  browned  remove  carefully  to  a  warm  platter  and 
make  the  following 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Add  to  the  water  in  the  dripping  pan  enough  boiling 
water  to  make  the  required  quantity  of  sauce.  With  a  four- 
pound  fish  you  will  have  almost  enough  to  fill  an  ordinary 
sized  gravy  boat.  Thicken  with  flour  stirred  smooth  with 
v/ater  to  the  consistency  of  thin  gravy,  and  add  two  table- 
spoons of  strained  canned  tomatoes,  two  tablespoons  tomato 
catsup,  one  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  The  canned  tomatoes  may  be 
omitted  and  more  catsup  used.  Cook  several  minutes,  stir- 
ring constantly,  and  serve  very  hot.         — Sarah  Barney. 

FISH  WITH  PARSLEY  SAUCE. 

After  a  fish  has  been  cleaned,  and  salted  for  several 

hours,  wash   and  put  in  boiling  water  with  several  small 
11 


162  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


onions,  a  few  peppercorns,  and  o^e  bay  leaf ;  boil  twenty  min- 
utes. Melt  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter  and  stir  into  it  two 
tablespoons  of  flour,  add  enough  water  in  which  the  fish  was 
boiled  to  make  a  nice  thick  gravy,  salt  to  taste,  a  little  vin- 
egar, and  some  minced  parsley.  Boil  up  well,  pour  over  the 
fish  and  serve  with  boiled  potatoes.  If  preferred,  a  table- 
spoon of  made  mustard  may  be  used  instead  of  parsley. 

— Mrs.  Emma  Wilkie. 

FISH,  A  LA  RUSSIAN. 

Remove  the  scales  and  eyes  from  a  good-sized  pike,  then 
wash  thoroughly  and  cut  into  about  four  pieces.  Scrape  the 
meat  out  of  the  skin  and  add  to  it  one  large  soda  cracker 
rolled  fine,  half  an  onion,  one  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
chop  very  fine  and  fill  the  fish  skin  with  it.  Put  into  a  kettle 
with  one  quart  cold  water,  half  a  lemon  sliced,  half  an  onion, 
a  few  whole  peppercorns,  and  boil  until  tender;  adcl  more 
water  if  necessar}^  The  gravy  will  form  a  jelly.  Serve  cold 
with  horseradish.  — Mrs.  A.  B.  Liebermann. 

BAKED  FISH. 

After  cleaning,  salt  the  fish,  baste  with  bacon,  add  pep- 
per, bay  leaf,  onions,  two  tablespoons  of  tomatoes,  and  a 
little  water.     Bake  one  hour.  Mrs.  D.  T.  Keeley. 


FISH.  163 


BOILED  FISH. 
3  or  4  pound  fish,  1  bay  leaf, 

1  quart  water,  1  sliced  lemon, 

1  Clip  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  cloves, 

1  large  onion,  2  tablespoons  whole  pepper. 

Boil  very  slowly.  For  the  dressing  take  one  pint  of 
cream  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten  together;  cook  in 
double  boiler  until  thick,  then  remove  from  stove  and  add 
enough  of  the  liquid  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled,  to  make  a 
nice  gravy.  Place  the  fish  on  a  platter,  pour  the  dressing  over, 
and  garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemon. 

—Mrs.   G.   E.  Weiss. 

BROWN  FISH  SAUCE. 

Three  medium-sized  trout,  cut  in  pieces. 
1  pint  vinegar,  4  bay  leaves, 

1  cup  water,  1  teaspoon  whole  pepper, 

3  sliced  lemons,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  raisins,  2  good  sized  pieces  stick 

^  cup  sugar,  cinnamon. 

10  cloves, 
Let  come  to  a  boil ;  add  one-half  cup  cold  water,  let  boil, 
then  pour  on  enough  cold  water  to  stop  boiling;  add  six  or 
eight  "store"  gingersnaps,  soaked  in  water    Let  this  come  to 
a  boil  and  then  place  in  jar  ready  for  use  the  second  day. 

— Mrs.   Chas.   A..   Silberzahn. 


164  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

COD  FISH  BALLS. 

1  cup  raw  salt  fish,  1  beaten  egg^ 

1  pint  potatoes,  ^  salt  spoon  pepper, 

1  teaspoon  butter. 
Wash  the  fish,  pick  in  half  inch  pieces,  and  free  from 
bones ;  pare  the  potatoes  and  cut  in  quarters ;  put  the  potatoes 
and  fish  in  stew  pan,  and  cover  with  boiling  water;  boil 
twenty-five  minutes  or  till  potatoes  are  soft;  be  careful  not  to 
boil  until  soggy.  Drain  off  all  the  water,  mash  and  beat  the 
fish  and  potatoes  until  very  light;  add  the  butter  and  pepper 
and  when  slightly  cooled  add  the  egg  and  more  salt  if  needed. 
Shape  in  tablespoon  without  smoothing  much  and  fry  one 
minute  in  smoking  hot  lard;  drain  on  soft  paper. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Miller. 

FISH  BALLS. 

Mix  into  balls  equal  quantities  of  chopped  fish  and  po- 
tatoes, one  well  beaten  egg,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter. 
Roll  the  balls  in  flour  and  fry  with  salt  pork  in  lard  until 
nicely  browned.  — Mrs.  B.  Fairbanks. 

CEOQUETTES  OF  FISH. 

Separate  any  kind  of  boiled  fish  from  the  bones  carefully ; 
add  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  beat  an  egg 
with  a  teaspoon  of  milk  and  flour;  mix  thoroughly,  roll  into 
balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  and 
fry  a  light  brown.  — Mrs.  James  Friedlander. 


FISH.  165 


FISH  CUTLETS. 

Boil  one  pound  of  any  kind  of  lish;  when  done,  drain 
and  pick  to  pieces;  mix  with  one  teaspoon  salt,  a  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley  and  a  quarter  teaspoon  of  pepper..  Stir  two 
tablespo'ons  of  flour  and  one  of  butter  in  one-half  cup  of  hot 
milk,  cook  a  minute,  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  then  the 
fish;  mix  lightly  and  when  cold,  form  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

— Mrs.  J.  J.  Williams. 

PLANKED  WHITE  FISH. 

Take  a  well-seasoned  oak  plank  twenty  inches  long,  ten 
inches  wide  and  one  inch  thick,  with  a  groove  cut  around  the 
top  one  inch  from  the  edge;  heat  and  oil  it  thoroughly,  then 
spread  upon  it,  skin  side  down,  a  white  fish,  dressed,  cleaned 
and  split  down  the  under  side;  brush  over  with  butter  or  oil, 
bake  about  twenty-five  minutes,  basting  often;  when  done 
place  the  plank  upon  a  platter,  spread  the  fish  with  three  level 
tablespoons  butter,  creamed,  and  mixed  with  salt,  pepper  and 
a  tablespoon  lemon  juice;  garnish  the  edge  of  the  plank  with 
mashed  potatoes  and  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley.  Never 
wash  the  plank  after  using  but  wipe  it  well  with  a  clean  cloth 
and  put  it  i.i  a  clean  place  until  wanted  again. 

—Mrs.  Hall. 


166  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

LOBSTER  CUTLETS. 
One  lobster,  one  ounce  butter,  one  ounce  flour,  one  egg, 
three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt.  Chop  the 
lobster  meat  rather  fine;  if  there  is  any  coral,  pound  with 
one  ounce  of  butter  and  press  through  a  sieve:  meli  the  butter 
in  a  sauce  pan,  add  the  flour,  stir  smooth,  but  do  not  brown. 
Add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cold  water  gradually,  stirring  all 
the  time  till  the  sauce  boils;  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  add 
the  coral,  pepper,  salt,  and  if  cream,  one  tablespoon.  Mix 
the  chopped  lobster  with  the  sauce;  spread  on  a  plate  to  cool 
before  making  into  cutlets.  Break  an  egg  on  a  plate,  beat 
slightly  with  a  knife.  When  the  lobster  is  cool,  take  a  small 
quantity  on  a  floured  board  and  shape  as  much  like  a  cutlet  as 
possible.  Put  some  very  fine  bread  crumbs  on  a  sheet  of 
kitchen  paper;  dip  each  cutlet  into  the  egg,  covering  well, 
roll  in  crumbs,  put  in  frying  basket,  and  fry  a  golden  brown 
in  a  pan  of  boiling  fat.  Take  out  the  cutlets,  put  on  kitchen 
paper  to  drain,  take  places  of  the  feelers  (antennae)  of  the 
lobster  and  stick  a  piece  into  each  cutlet  to  imitate  a  bone. 
Milk  may  be  used  instead  of  water  for  the  sauce. 

KEDGEREE  (English). 

J  pound  boiled  fish,  2  eggs, 

i  pound  rice,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 

2  ounces  butter,  Little  cayenne  pepper. 


FISH.  167 

Wash  and  boil  the  rice;  boil  the  eggs  very  hard;  break 
the  fish  into  pieces,  carefully  taking  out  the  bones.  Cut  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  into  small  pieces.  Melt  the  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  the  rice,  whites  of  eggs,  fish,  cayenne  and  salt; 
mix  well,  sprinkle  tlie  yolks  of  the  eggs  over  and  serve  on  a 
hot  dish.  — F.  L.  M. 

PICKLED  HERRING. 

Soak  twelve  Holland  herring  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing remove  the  skins  and  heads,  cut  each  herring  in  three  or 
four  pieces,  put  in  a  jar  with  one  sliced  onion,  two  teaspoons 
whole  allspice,  three  or  four  bay  leaves,  and  pour  cold  vinegar 
over.  *  Mrs.  J.  J.  Lutzen. 

PICKLED  HERRING. 
One  keg  of  Holland  herring;  wash  without  removing  the 
skin,  take  out  inside;  save  two  dozen  milch.  Soak  herring  in 
water  twenty- four  hours,  changing  the  water  six  times;  slice 
six  onions  and  two  lemons ;  place  herring  and  onions  in  alter- 
nate layers  in  a  jar,  adding  also  the  lemons  and  spices.  Pour 
vinegar  over  the  milch  and  press  through  a  colander,  add  this 
to  the  herring  and  cover  with  vinegar.  If  the  vinegar  is  very 
strong  add  some  water.  Cut  the  herring  into  pieces  when 
served.     If  desired,  apples  may  be  added. 

— Mrs.  J.  A.  Albrecht. 


168  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

OYSTERS  AND  MACARONI. 

Boil  macaroni  in  salted  water  until  tender ;  butter  a  deep 
dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  macaroni,  over  this  a  layer  of  oysters, 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  liberal 
bits  of  butter;  cover  with  macaroni.  Strew  top  with  bread 
or  cracker  crumbs  and  butter.  Pour  over  all  two  eggs  and 
one  cup  of  milk.    Bake.        — Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Fill  a  buttered  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  cracker 
crumbs  seasoned  with  bits  of  butter,  and  oysters  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper,  having  the  last  layer  of  crackers.  Strain 
the  oyster  liquor,  pour  on  top,  add  milk  until  it  can  be  seen 
on  the  surface.     Bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

— Mrs.  Joseph  Ott. 

SALMON  LOAF. 

Remove  the  bones,  skin  and  oil  from  two  cans  of  salmon ; 
add  two  eggs,  half  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Mix  and  chop  in  an  earthen  bowl.  Pack  in  a  buttered 
dish  and  steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  When  cold,  run  a 
knife  around  the  dish  and  the  loaf  will  slip  out  easily. 

— ^Mrs.  A.  M.  Bowen. 


FISH.  169 


SALMON  LOAF. 

Mix  one  can  salmon,  fonr  eggs  beaten  light,  four  table- 
spoons melted  butter  and  one-half  cup  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs  to  a  smooth  paste.  Steam  one  hour  and  serve  with 
the  following 

SAUCE. 

One-half  cup  sweet  milk,  thickened  with  a  small  table- 
spoon of  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  cat- 
sup, a  little  nutmeg  or  mace,  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Just  before  taking  up  add  a  well  beaten  egg,  boil 
a  minute  and  pour  over  loaf.  — Mrs.  E.  S.  Lynch. 

ESCALLOPED  SALMON. 

Fill  a  shallow  baking  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  canned 
salmon  and  coarse  cracker  crumbs,  seasoning  each  layer  of 
cracker  crumbs  with  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour 
over  the  top  (which  should  be  cracker)  enough  milk  to 
moisten  the  whole.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  a  golden 
brown.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

ESCALLOPED  SALMON. 

2  cups  milk,  1  cup  salmon, 

§  cup  floui,  Butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Thicken  the  milk  with  the  flour  to  the  consistency  of 
thick  milk  gravy;  break  up  the  salmon  and  mix  slightly  with 
the  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  add  to  the  gravy,  put  buttered 
cracker  crumbs  on  top  and  bake.  — Mrs.  A.  Gordon. 


170  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

SALMON  IN  A  MOULD. 

1  can  salmon,  4  eggs, 

4  tablespoons  melted  ^  cup  cracker  crumbs. 

buttei, 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  minced  parsley,  and,  if  liked 
a  little  celery.  Drain  the  liquor  from  the  salmon,  remove  the 
bones  and  skin,  chop  fine,  rub  the  butter  into  it  until  smooth, 
then  add  seasoning,  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  cracker  crumbs. 
Mix  thoroughly,  steam  one  hour  in  a  buttered  mould  and 
serve  with  the  following  sauce: 

1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  com  starch, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  catsup, 

Salmon  liquor,  1  egg. 

Boil  the  milk  and  thicken  with  cornstarch;  add  salmon 
liquor,  butter,  catsup,  and  lastly,  very  carefully,  the  egg. 
Boil  oaie  minute.  Turn  salmon  out  of  mould  and  pour  sauce 
around  it.  — Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 

CREAM  SAUCE  FOR  SALMON. 

Let  one  cup  of  cream,  sour  or  sweet,  come  to  a  boil,  add 
yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  with  half  cup  of  vinegar,  let  come 
to  a  boil  again,  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  until  cold. 

— Miss  Lillian  Dangers. 


FISH.  171 


SALMON   TUEBOT. 
2  egga,  3  cups  milk, 

J  cup  butter,  1  small  onion  or  parsley; 

1  cup  flour,  salt. 

Stir  together  and  cook  till  thick  as  cake  dough.  Use 
two  cans  salmon.  Put  alternate  layers  of  dough  and  salmon 
in  a  braking  dish,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  moisten  with  cream 
or  milk,  cover  clo'sely  and  bake;  then  remove  the  cover  and 
brown  slightly.  — Mrs.  H.    F.  Shadbolt. 

TURBOT  A  LA  CREME. 
Parboil  fish,  remove  skin  and  bones.  Prepare  a  sauce 
with  one  quart  milk,  one-fourth  pound  butter,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  two  yolks,  little  parsley  and  thyme  and  one  small 
onion.  After  cooking  strain,  then  put  fish  and  sauce  in  a 
baking  dish  in  alternate  layers,  grate  a  little  cheese  over  the 
top  and  over  the  cheese  put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  then 
pour  the  remaining  sauce  over  and  bake  one-half  hour. 

—Mrs.  W.  E.  Bennet. 

TURBOT. 

Boil  a  white  fish  or  trout,  weighing  about  four  pounds; 
pick  from  the  bones  very  fine;  make  a  sauce  of  one  quart  of 
milk  into  which  has  been  cut  two  small  onions,  a  little  pars- 
ley, celery  or  celery  salt,  a  sm.all  piece  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  thickened  with  two  tablespoons  of  flour;  when  well 
cooked  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and 
strain;  fill  a  pudding  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  fish  and 
sauce,  covering  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  small  pieces 


172  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

of  butter;  set  it  in  the  oven  until  the  top  is  browned,  then 
serve  at  once.  Any  remnants  of  baked  or  boiled  fish  can  be 
used  in  this  way,  making  quantity  of  sauce  to  correspond 
with  that  of  fish.  — Mrs.  S.  S.  Barney. 

BAKED   EGGS. 

Break  eight  eggs  into  a  well  buttered  dish,  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  a  little  butter  and  two  tablespoons  sweet  cream. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. 

EGG    CUTLETS. 

Boil  eggs  twenty  minutes,  and  when  quite  cold,  shell 
them  and  cut  in  two  lengthwise.  Have  ready  one  tablespoon 
butter  melted  and  on  a  hot  plate,  add  to  it  a  little  salt  and 
pepper;  one  egg  beaten  with  one  tablespoon  cold  water,  on 
another  plate,  and  fine  dry  bread  crumbs  on  still  another. 
Dip  the  egg  halves  first  in  the  melted  butter,  then  in  egg,  roll 
in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.     Serve  with  currie. 

EGG   TIMBALES. 

Beat  six  eggs  lightly  with  fork  till  well  mixed;  add  one 
and  one-half  cups  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper,  one 
teaspoon  minced  parsley,  one- fourth  teaspoon  onion  Juice;  stir 
all  well,  pour  into  well  buttered  moulds — this  quantity  will 
fill  eight — set  the  moulds  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  cook  in 
moderate  oven  until  firm,  about  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with 
either  cream  or  tomato  sauce. 


EGGS  173 


MUSTARD  EGGS. 


Boil  the  eggs  hard  and  shell  them ;  brown  one  large  table- 
spoon of  sugar  in  a  frying  pan;  mix  one  tablespoon  of  flour 
with  one-fourth  cup  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  prepared  mus- 
tard, one-half  cup  cream,  or  one  tablespoon  of  salad  oil,  and 
stir  into  the  brownied  sugar;  season  with  nutmeg,  cloves  and 
allspice  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  over  the  eggs  and 
serve  hot.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

PICNIC   EGGS. 

12  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  4  teaspoons  vinegar, 

8  tablespoons  meat,  4  tablespoons  catsup. 

chopped  very  fine. 
Boil  eggs  hard,  shell,  cut  across  in  halves,  removing 
yolks ;  mash  yolks,  add  the  <>ther  ingredients.  Worcestershire 
sauce  may  be  used  instead  of  catsup,  if  preferred.  Mix  well, 
fill  the  whites  with  the  mixture  and  pin  the  halves  together 
with  a  toothpick ;  serve  as  soon  as  the  acid  discolors  the  white 
— in  a  few  hours.    Place  in  glass  jar  to  carry  to  picnic. 

— Minnie  Colwell. 


SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Break  six  eggs  into  a  dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
turn  into  a  hot  skillet  containing  one  tablespoon  butter  and  a 
little  cream.  Stir  eggs  briskly  one  way  for  four  or  five 
minutes,  spread  over  toast  and  dish  up. 


174  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

FILLING. 

16  powdered  yolks,  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard, 

2  teaspoons  salt,  1  teaspoon  black  pepper. 
Fill,  put  halves  together  and  wrap  in  tissue  paper. 

OMELET. 

Six  eggs,  six  tablespoons  milk,  little  salt.  Give  yolks 
twelve  beats,  add  milk,  salt  and  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs,  pour  at  once  into  a  very  hot  buttered  spider  and  bake 
in  quick  oven  about  five  minutes.  If  desired,  lay  jelly  or 
grated  ham  or  cheese  over  half  of  omelet,  fold  over,  place  on 
a  hot  platter,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve  at  ooice. 

— Addie  Seymour. 

OMELET. 

3  eggs,  3  tablespoons  milk. 
Butter,  J  size  of  egg.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Beat  butter  with  the  yolks,  add  milk  and  beat  again,  add 
salt  and  pepper;  beat  whites  stiff  and  add  last;  place  butter, 
size  of  walnut,  in  a  frying  pan,  turn  the  mixture  in  and  when 
just  set,  run  knife  round  edge  and  fold  one-half  over  the 
other;  cook  until  it  will  slip  out  easily  on  a  platter. 

— Mrs.  Charles  Lyon. 


The  Chafing  Dish. 


"When  art  and  nature  join,  the  effect  will  be 
Some  nice  ragout  or  charming  fricassee." 


CHEESE  TOAST. 


1  cup  cheese,  i  teaspoon  mustard, 

1  cup  milk,  2  egg  yolks, 

J  teaspoon  salt,  Little  red  pepper. 

Put  cheese,  cut  in  bits,  and  milk  over  in  double  boiler; 
when  cheese  is  blended  with  the  milk,  add  beaten  yolks  and 
seasoning,  cook  lightly  and  serve  at  once  on  toast. 

—Mrs.  H.  B.  Hitz. 

OMELET. 

1  tablespoon  flour,  4  eggs, 

i  cup  milk,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Stir  flour  and  salt  into  the  milk,  add  well  beaten  yolks, 
then  the  whites,  beaten  stiff ;  pour  into  a  buttered  skillet,  cook 
five  minutes  and  serve  hot.     One  cup  of  milk  may  be  used. 

— Frances  Dunham. 


176  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CEEAMED    OYSTERS. 

1  pint  sweet  cream,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

1  quart  oysters.  Salt  and  pepper, 

Butter  size  of  walnut.  Celery  salt  or  juice. 

Put  all  except  oysters  in  chafing  dish,  let  oysters  come  to 
a  boil  in  their  own  juice,  then  drain  and  turn  them  into  the 
cream.     Serve  on  slices  of  hot  buttered  toast.    . 

— Mrs.  S.  S.  Barney. 

PANNED    OYSTERS. 

1  pint  oysters,  3  or  4  stalks  celery, 

1  tablespoon  butter.  Little  cayenne  pepper, 

1  teaspoon  salt. 
Fry  slowly  for  a  few  minutes  the  butter,  salt,  pepper  and 
celery  (cut  into  small  pieces),  then  add  the  oysters  and  their 
juice;  after  stirring  well,  cover  closely  and  cook  two  or  three 
minutes,  or  until  the  oysters  are  plump.  Pour  over  buttered 
toast  and  serve  at  once.  — Mrs.  Emil  C.  Pors. 

OYSTERS    ON   TOAST. 
1  quart  oysters,  1  tablespoon  flour  in 

Butter  size  of  egg,  1  teacup  milk. 

Salt  and  pepper,  1  egg  (beaten). 

Lay  oysters  on  a  cloth  to  dry,  melt  butter  in  a  frying 
pan  and  when  browned  add  the  oysters ;  as  soon  as  they  begin 
to  cook  add  milk  containing  flour,  salt  and  pepper;  let  boil 
up,  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  egg,  and  pour  over  hot  but- 
tered toast  on  a  warmed  platter. 


THE    CHAFING    DISH  177 

TOMATO  EAKEBIT.    (English.) 

1  large  tomato,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 

1  ounce  butter,  Pinch  of  pepper, 

1  ounce  grated  cheese,         i  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 
1  teaspoon  catsup, 

Cook  the  tomato  and  butter  in  a  small  stew  pan  until  the 
tomato  is  tender,  then  press  it  through  a  sieve;  return  the 
pulp  to  the  pan,  add  the  other  ingredients,  stir  together  un- 
til the  mixture  is  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Serve  on  but- 
tered toast. 

WELSH    RAREBIT. 

J  cup  cream,  1  pound  grated  cheese. 

Salt  to  taste,  i  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper. 

Put  cheese,  pepper  and  salt  in  the  chafing  dish,  stir  a 
few  minutes,  then  add  the  cream,  stir  until  smooth,  but  do 
not  boil.    Pour  over  toast  or  salted  wafers. 

— Mrs.  Ralph  H.  Norris. 

WELSH   RAREBIT. 

J  pound  cheese  (cut  2  beaten  eggs, 

fine),  1  teaspoon  made  mustard, 

i  cup  cream,  Pinch  of  cayenne  pepper, 

1  large  spoon  butter,  Little  salt. 

Boil  all  together  and  serve  on  hot  toast. 

— Mrs.  Sophie  Bordoe. 


178  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


Desserts. 


'Viands  of  various  kinds  allure  the  taste. 
Of  choicest  sort  and  aavor." 


APPLE   CHARLOTTE. 

1  quart  apples,  1^  cup  bread  crumbs, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  lemon  rind. 

J  cup  sugar, 

Stew  the  apples  until  soft,  add  the  butter  and  sugar, 
then  strain.  Line  a  buttered  pudding  dish  with  browned 
bread  and  fill  with  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs  and 
apples,  having  the  last  layer  of  crumbs.  Grate  the  lemon 
rind  over  and  after  browning  in  the  oven,  serve  with  sugar 
and  cream,  or  a  hard  sauce.  — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winkler. 


180  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

1  pint  flour,  |  teaspoon  salt, 

1  teaspoon  cream  1  tablespoon  lard, 

tartar,  |  teaspoon  soda, 

Sift  the  flour,  cream  tartar  and  salt  together,  rub  in  the 
lard,  add  the  soda  dissolved  in  water,  then  add  enough  sweet 
milk  or  water  to  make  a  little  stiffer  than  biscuit  dough ;  roll 
out  a  little  thicker  than  pie  crust,  cut  into  squares  and  put 
into  the  center  of  each  a  nice  sour  apple,  pared  and  cored. 
Fill  the  hole  left  by  the  core  with  sugar,  a  bit  of  butter  and 
a  clove.  Bring  the  corners  of  the  dough  together,  pinching 
well  to  make  a  firm  ball;  tie  in  loose  cloths  which  have  been 
dipped  in  hot  water  and  floured  on  the  inside.  Boil  one 
hour.  Serve  hot  with  sweet  cream,  or  butter  and  sugar. 
Nice  also  baked  or  steamed.  — Elizabeth  Dunham. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Peel  and  core  twelve  tart  apples,  wrap  each  in  biscuit 
dough  and  place  in  a  dripping  pan;  heat  one  heaping  table- 
spoon butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  and  one-half  cup 
water,  pour  over  the  dumplings,  then  grate  over  one-half  a 
nutmeg  and  bake,  basting  often. 

— Mrs.  John  Roob. 


DESSERTS.  181 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Poll  a  rich  biscuit  dough  a  half  inch  thick,  cover  with 
sliced  apples,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  a  half  cup  sugar 
then  roll  like  a  jelly  cake,  put  in  a  deep,  narrow  cake-tin  with 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of 
water,  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top  and  bake  about  forty-five 
minutes.  Use  any  preferred  sauce.  Will  serve  a  company 
of  six.  — Mrs.  G.  A.  Knoller. 

APPLE    PUDDING. 

Pare  four  good-sized  juicy  apples,  the  more  tart  the  bet- 
ter ;  cut  into  eighths,  put  into  a  pudding  dish  and  pour  in  hot 
water  to  the  depth  of  half  an  inch.  Add  enough  sugar  to 
sweeten  the  apples,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and 
butter,  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Put  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  to  simmer  while  stirring  a  plain  cake  batter  made  of 
§  cup  of  sugar,  1^  cups  flour, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  heaping  teaspoon 

1  eggf  baking  powder. 

§  cup  cold  water, 

Pour  this  batter  over  the  hot  apples  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar.  This  pudding  is  deli- 
cious, inexpensive,  and  a  great  favorite. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


182  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA. 

1  cup  tapioca,  i  cup  sugai, 

7  or  8  apples,  Eaisina, 

1  cup  water,  Cinnamon. 

Soak  tapioca  over  night;  in  the  morning  pare  and  core 
the  apples  and  fill  the  centers  with  raisins;  add  water  and 
sugar  to  the  tapioca,  pour  over  the  apples,  scatter  cinnamon 
over  and  bake  till  apples  are  done.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

— Mrs.  W.  N.  Hamilton. 


BEERY  PUDDIITG. 

3  tablespoons  sugar,  1  pint  fresh  berries, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1  even  tablespoon  baking 

3  eggs,  powder  sifted  in 

J  cup  of  sweet  milk,  Flour  to  make  stiff  batter. 

Steam  forty  minutes.  — Mrs.  Cole. 


BIRD'S  NEST  PUDDING. 
Pare  and  core  four  small  apples,  fill  the  cavities  with 
sugar  and  put  in  a  baking  dish,  then  stir  one  egg  and  three 
tablespoons  sugar  together,  add  one-half  cup  milk  and  pour 
the  mixture  over  the  apples.  Bake  until  the  apples  are  ten- 
der. Will  serve  four  people.  Large  apples  may  be  used  by 
cutting  them  in  halves.  — Mrs.  Knoller. 


DESSERTS.  183 


BLACK    PUDDING. 

1  quart  blueberries,  1  five-cent  loaf  baker's 

1  pint  water,  wheat  bread. 

1  cup  sugar. 
Stew  the  berries,  water  and  sugar  together ;  cut  the  bread 
into  thin  slices  and  spread  with  butter,  then  fill  a  pudding 
dish,  with  alternate  layers  of  the  bread  and  hot  berries.  Serve 
with  rich,  sweet  cream  when  perfectly  cold.  Any  other  small 
berries  may  be  used,  — Mrs.  Sophie  Bordoe. 


BREAD    PUDDING. 

1  pint  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

1  quart  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter  (soft), 

2  eggs,  1  cup  raisins, 

i  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Cinnamon  may  be  used  instead  of  nutmeg,  and  one 
square  of  chocolate  instead  of  the  raisins.  Bake  one  hour 
and  serve  with  the  following 

SAUCE. 

i  cup  butter,  Little  lemon, 

i  pound  sugar.  Vanilla  or  nutmeg  flavor. 

— Mrs,  Barbara  Seevogel. 


184  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

BROWN   PUDDING. 

1  cup  New  Orleans  3  scant  cups  flour, 

molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

§  cup  butter,  1  cup  seeded  raisins, 

1  egg,  Pinch  of  salt  and  little 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  grated  nutmeg. 

Steam  three  hours.    Serve  with  a  rich  egg  sauce. 

— Mrs.  J.  H.  Sinclair. 

CARAMEL   PUDDING. 

Stir  four  tablespoons  of  sugar  in  a  pan  over  a  moderate 
fire  until  melted,  being  careful  not  to  get  it  too  dark;  then 
divide  into  six  parts,  put  each  part  into  a  cup,  turning  the 
cup  until  the  bottom  and  part  of  the  sides  are  covered  with 
the  caramel.  Beat  three  eggs  and  four  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
add  one-half  cup  of  milk  and  one  tablespoon  of  vanilla;  then 
divide  it  into  six  parts,  turn  each  part  into  a  cup  containing 
caramel,  set  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  the  pudding  is  firm.  Turn  out  of  the 
cups  as  soon  as  done.    Serve  cold. 

— Marie  0.  Wehle. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING. 

Brown  one  cup  sugar  in  a  spider,  add  one  quart  milk  and 
thicken  with  two  level  dessert  spoons  com  starch  made  smooth 
in  a  little  milk.    Serve  very  cold  with  cream. 

— Mrs.  Howarth. 


DESSERTS.  185 


CHERRY  PUDDING. 

2  eggs,  i  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  lard, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  3|  cups  flour, 

2  cups  buttermilk,  1  cup  cherries. 

Dissolve  soda  in  buttermilk  and  use  good  measure  of 
flour.  Cherries  may  be  fresh,  or,  if  canned,  drained  from 
the  juice.  Steam  three  hours.  Can  be  steamed  in  one  hour 
in  small  cups.  — Mrs.  M.  N".  Seward. 

CHOCOLATE    PUDDING. 

1  pint  milk,  2  tablespoons  grated 

1  heaping  tablespoon  chocolate, 

cornstarch,  ^  teacup  sugar. 

Boil  the  milk,  add  the  other  ingredients,  boil  until  it 
thickens,  turn  into  moulds,  and  let  cool.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste. 

—Mrs.  H.  Rolfs. 

CHOCOLATE    PUDDING. 

1  quart  sweet  milk,  5  eggs, 

3  ounces  chocolate,  1  cup  sugar. 

Scald  the  milk  and  grated  chocolate;  when  cool  add  the 
beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Bake  about  twenty-five  minutes. 
Frost  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  brown  in  the 
oven.    Serve  cold.  — Amanda  Franckenberg. 


186  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE   BREAD    PUDDING. 

1  pint  milk,  1  square  chocolate  (melted), 

3  eggs,  3  thin  slices  bread, 

f  cup  sugar.  Vanilla. 

Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk,  add  the  other  ingredients, 
bake  and  serve  with  the  following 

SAUCE. 

I  cup  butter,  ^  teaspoon  lemon, 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,       f  teaspoon  vanilla. 
1  white  of  egg, 
Cream  butter  and  sifted  sugar,  gradually  add  the  white 
of  the  egg,  beaten  stiff,  and  flavor.     Serve  very  cold. 

— Mrs.  Allen. 


CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD. 

1  quart  milk,  '  8  eggs, 

J  tablet  French  8  teaspoons  white  sugar, 

chocolate,  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Beat  the  eight  yolks  and  two  whites  of  the  eggs  until 
light.  Boil  the  milk;  when  boiling  stir  the  chocolate,  sugar 
and  eggs  into  it,  put  it  in  a  clear  pitcher  in  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  then  stir  it  gently,  one  way  all  the  time,  until  it  be- 
comes a  thick  cream.  Strain  when  cold  and  add  the  vanilla, 
place  in  cups,  beat  the  remaining  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  sweeten  to  taste,  beat  well  and  place  some  of  the  frost- 
ing on  the  top  of  each  cup.  — Mrs.  Sophie  Bordoe. 


DESSERTS.  187 

CITEONEN  PUDDING.     (German.) 

1  pound  sugar,  10  "platten"  gelatine, 

2  lemons  4  cups  of  hot  water. 
10  eggs. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  water,  grate  the  lemons 
without  the  rind,  stir  the  sugar,  lemons,  yolks  of  eggs  and 
gelatine  forty-five  minutes,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  gradually  and  beat  fifteen  minutes. 

— Clara  L.  Kuechenmeister. 

CORNMEAL   PUDDING. 
1  quart  milk,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 

3  eggs,  salt,  3  tablespoons  commeal. 
Scald  the  milk  and  while  it  is  hot  add  the  beaten  eggi' 

and  the  other  ingredients;  stir  until  it  boils,  then  bake  one 
hour.     Serve  with  butter  and  sugar.  — Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 

CORNMEAL   PUDDING. 

5  tablespoons  meal,  -J  cup  molasses, 

1  scant  quart  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  2  eggs,  beaten, 

4  teaspoon  nutmeg,  J  cup  raisins, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  Cinnamon  and  ginger. 

Stir  the  cornmeal  into  one  cup  of  the  milk.  Scald  the 
remaining  milk  and  add  the  other  ingredients,  stirring  in 
the  cup  of  milk  containing  the  commeal  just  before  putting 
in  the  raisins.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour. 

—Mrs.  E.  C.  0. 


188  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CORNSTAECH   PUDDING. 

1  quart  sweet  milk,  1  cup  sugar;  salt, 

3  tablespoons  cornstarch,    5  eggs;  flavoring. 

Boil  the  milk,  add  the  cornstarch  made  smooth  in  a  little 
cold  milk,  salt,  sugar,  beaten  yolks  and  flavoring,  let  boil  a  few 
minutes,  then  pour  into  a  mould,  frost  with  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  a  little  more  sugar,  brown  in  the  oven  and  serve 
ice  cold. 

— Mrs.  Owens. 

COTTAGE   PUDDING. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 

2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

3  tablespoons  butter,  2  cups  flour. 
Bake  a  half  hour.     Sauce  for  same: 

1  cup  sugar,  1  pint  boiling  water, 

1  tablespoon  flour.  Butter  size  of  hickory  nut. 

1  tablespoon  vinegar,  Lemon  flavor. 
Boil  till  clear.  —Mrs.  G.  D.  Gould. 

CRACKER   PUDDING. 
Dip  milk  crackers  in  water,  lay  on  a  plate,  cover  with 
whipped  cream,  put  on  another  layer  of  soaked  crackers  and 
cover  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla. 

— Mrs.  John  Meyer. 


DESSERTS.  189 


DARK   PUDDING. 

1  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  ginger, 

i  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  hot  water,  IJ  cups  flour. 

On  no  account  add  more  flour.    Bake  half  an  hour  and 
serve  with  the  following  sauce: 

1  cup  sugar,  i  cup  butter, 

1  tablespoon  com-  1  cup  hot  water, 

starch,  Flavor  to  taste. 

Fruit  juice  in  the  sauce  is  very  nice. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


DATE  PUDDING. 

f  cup  powdered  sugar.  1  cup  dates, 

2  eggs,  i  cup  walnuts, 

3  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  powder. 

Beat  yolks,  add  sugar,  flour  and  baking  powder,  cut 
dates  and  rolled  walnuts;  add  vanilla  and  the  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs  last.  Bake  in  a  buttered  tin  from  thirty  to  forty-five 
minutes  in  a  very  slow  oven.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  James  Toule. 


190  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

DELMONICO    PUDDING. 

5  eggs,  3  tablespoons  cornstarch, 

6  tablespoons  sugar,  1  quart  milk;  salt. 

Beat  the  yolks,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  again  until  very 
light.  Mix  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk,  add  to  the 
eggs  and  sugar,  stir  all  into  the  hot  milk  and  add  salt  to 
taste.  When  it  has  thickened  well  pour  into  a  serving  dish 
and  place  in  the  oven  until  firm  enough  to  bear  the  icing, 
then  spread  a  layer  of  canned  peaches  over  the  top,  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  ten  tablespoons  of 
powdered  sugar,  cover  the  peaches  with  this  frosting  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  — Agnes  M.  Haase. 

ESTELLE   PUDDING. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1  even  tablespoon  baking 
creamed  with  powder, 

2J  tablespoons  sugar.  Flour  to  make  consistency 

3  well  beaten  eggs,  of  pound  cake, 

I  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  finely  chopped  raisins. 

Steam  thirty-five  minutes  and  serve  with  sauce. 

— Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

ECONOMICAL   AND    FAVORITE    DESSERT. 

When  the  bread  dough  is  ready  to  put  into  baking  pans, 
pinch  off  enough  at  a  time  to  make  a  common  sized  biscuit. 
Do  not  mix,  but  roll  them  into  shape  in  the  hand.  Place  on 
a  buttered  plate,  let  rise,  then  steam  for  half  an  hour.  Serve 
hot  with  butter  and  maple  syrup.  — Mrs.  E.  W.  Collins. 


DESSERTS.  191 


FARINA  PUDDING.     (German.) 

1  quart  milk,  1  lemon,  (juice), 

i  pound  farina,  i  pound  almonds, 

6  tablespoons  sugar,  4  whites  of  eggs. 

Heat  the  milk;  when  nearly  boiling  stir  in  the  farina 
slowly  and  boil  until  thick;  add  the  sugar,  lemon  juice, 
almonds  (cut  fine),  and  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  mix  thor- 
oughly and  serve  cold  with  boiled  custard. 

— Mrs.  x\lfred  Weil. 


FIG   PUDDING. 

-J  pound  figs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

I  cup  sugar,  J  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  suet  (chopped).         Sweet  milk  to  make  soft 
IJ  cup  flour,  dough. 

Cook  the  figs  and  sugar  to  a  jelly  with  water  enough  to 
keep  from  burning.  Stir  the  other  ingredients  all  together, 
roll  out,  cover  with  the  jellied  figs,  roll  together  like  jelly 
cake  and  steam  three  hours.  Serve  with  any  plain  pudding 
sauce.    A  most  delicious  dessert. 

—Mrs.  W.  S.  Doig. 


192 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


1  pint  suet, 

1  quart  bread  crumbs, 

(scant), 
4  tablespoons  moist 

sugar. 


FIG   PUDDING. 

i  pound  figs  (chopped 

fine), 
J  nutmeg, 
1  egg,  beaten, 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 


Chop  the  suet  fine,  mix  thoroughly  with  the  bread 
crumbs  and  add  the  remaining  ingredients  in  the  order  given. 
Steam  four  hours.    Serve  with  sauce. 

—Mrs.  0.  H.  Ward. 

FIG   PUDDING. 
2  eggs,  -J  pound  figs  and 

1  cup  sugar,  i  pound  suet,  chopped  fine, 

i  cup  milk,  2  heaping  cups  soft  bread 

1  teaspoon  salt,  crumbs. 

Pour  into  well  greased  mould  and  steam  three  hooirs. 

— Mrs.  A.  M.  Bo  wen. 

GRAHAM   PUDDING. 


1  cup  butter, 
1  cup  sweet  milk, 
i  cup  syrup, 
1  cup  graham  flour, 
J  cup  wheat  flour. 
Steam  three  to  four  hours. 
i  cup  butter, 
1  tablespoon  flour, 
1  cup  hot  water. 


1  cup  stoned  raisins, 

1  cup  currants, 

1  small  teaspoon  soda. 

Sauce  for  same : 
Flavor  to  taste. 
1  cup  sugar, 
— Mrs.  Sophie  Bordoe. 


DESSERTS. 


193 


GEAHAM 
1  cup  buttermilk, 

1  ^gg, 


PUDDING. 
1  cup  graham  flour, 
i  cup  raisins, 
1  small  teaspoon  soda. 


i  cup  syrup, 
1  cup  wheat  flour, 
Steam  two  hours  without  liftinsr  the  cover. 


Serve  with 


sweetened  cream. 


-Katherine  M.  Bowen. 


HARTFORD    PUDDING. 


J  cup  suet;  salt, 
^  cup  molasses, 
i  cup  sweet  milk. 


1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  raisins  in 

2  cups  flour. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  pour  into  a  welh greased  pan  and 
steam  one  and  one-half  hours.    Sauce  for  same : 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2  eggs,  Butter  size  of  a  walnut. 
Beat  all  together  and  cook  half  an  hour  in  a  double 

boiler.  — Mrs.  P.  W.  Hamfi. 


13 


MARBLE  PUDDING. 

2  cups  sifted  flour, 
2  level  teaspoons 
baking  powder, 
i  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
i  teaspoon  salt, 
2  eggs, 


f  cup  sugar, 

-|  cup  cold  water, 

4  tablespoons  melted 

butter, 
1-1  ounces  melted 

chocolate. 


194  WEST   BEND  COOK   BOOK. 

Sift  the  flour,  baking-  powder,  cinnamon  and  salt  to- 
gether three  times;  to  the  beaten  yolks  add  the  sugar,  water 
and  butter  and  stir  into  the  sifted  ingredients,  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  then  divide  the  mixture  into  two  parts 
and  add  the  chocolate  to  one  part.  Dispose  the  two  parts 
in  a  buttered  mould  to  give  a  marbled  appearance.  Steam 
forty-five  minutes.     Serve  with  the  following  hard  sauce: 

Work  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg,  one  and  a  half  cups 
powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  together.  Be- 
cause of  the  varying  size  of  lemons,  either  a  little  more  sugar 
or  a  few  drops  of  water  may  need  to  be  added. 

— Mrs.  G.  A.  Gro€s. 

OATMEAL  PUDDING. 

1  cup  oatmeal  mush.  Pinch  of  salt, 

2  beaten  eggs,  Nutmeg  flavor, 
4  cup  sugar,  Eich  milk. 

Make  thin  batter  and  bake.      — Mrs.  John  Gilmore. 

ORANGE    PUDDING. 

Put  three  sliced  oranges  in  a  granite  dish,  cover  with  two- 
thirds  cup  sugar;  make  a  cornstarch  pudding  and  while  hot 
pour  over  the  oranges;  make  a  meringue  with  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

— Mrs.  W.  N.  Hamilton. 


DESSERTS.  195 


PEACH    DELIGHT. 

Pare  ripe  peaches  and  cut  in  halves ;  leave  in  a  few  pits ; 
put  a  layer  of  peaches  in  a  granite  dish,  cover  with  a  layer 
of  sugar,  put  in  another  layer  of  peaches,  dot  with  bits  of 
butter,  add  a  cup  of  water  and  a  cup  of  sugar  mixed  with 
two  tablespoons  of  flour;  for  the  crust  take  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sifted  flour,  one-half  cup  of  lard,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  one-third  teaspoon  salt  and  just  enough  water  to  mix 
the  ingredients  well;  stir  with  a  silver  knife  handle,  little  as 
possible;  while  roiling  out  make  incisions  for  juice;  place  the 
dough  over  the  peaches,  bake  and  serve  like  pie  but  with  the 
fruit  on  top ;  serve  with  cream. 

—Mrs.  G.  D.  Gould. 

PEACH   PUDDING. 

Put  one  pint  canned  peaches  in  a  pudding  dish,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  pour  over  this  one  quart  of  cornstarch  custard, 
let  cool  and  spread  a  generous  supply  of  sweetened  and 
flavored  whipped  cream  over  the  top.     Serve  ice  cold. 

— Mrs.  Cole. 

PEACH   PUDDING. 

Have  a  deep  earthenware  dish  well  buttered  and  sprin- 
kled with  sugar.  Cut  one-half  loaf  of  stale  bread  into  thin 
slices  and  butter  them;  fill  the  dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
bread  and  sliced  fresh  or  canned  peaches  (sprinkle  with  sugar 
if  fresh),  having  a  layer  of  bread  on  the  top  and  on  the  bot- 
tom.   Pour  over  the  whole  the  following  custard : 


196  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

J  cup  sugar,  3  cups  milk, 

3  eggs,  Grated  nutmeg. 

Set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  water  a  ad  bake  one  hour. 

— Alma  Happel. 


PEACH  PUDDING. 

Fill  pudding  dish  with  whole,  peeled  peaches,  pour  over 
them  two  cups  of  water,  cover  closely,   bake  until  peaches 
are  tender,  then  drain  and  to  the  juice  when  cooled  add — 
2  cups  milk,  1  teaspoon  baking 

4  beaten  eggs,  powder  in 

1  cup  sugar,  1  small  cup  flour, 

-J  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon   melted   butter. 

Beat  well  together,  pour  over  peaches  and  bake  till  brown. 
Serve  with  cream.  — Mrs.  Marsh. 


PLUM   PUDDING. 

1  cup  suet,  chopped,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

1  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour, 

^  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  raisins, 

1  teaspoon  soda,       .  1  cup  currants. 

Stir  part  of  the  flour  into  the  fruit  before  adding  to  the 

other  ingredients,  which  should  be  mixed  in  the  order  given. 

Steam  three  hours.  — Mrs.  C.  A,  Weil. 


DESSERTS.  197 

PLUM   PUDDING. 

3  cups  flour,  1  cup  chapped  raising, 

J  cup  molasses,  1  small  teaspoon  salt, 

1  piece  lard,  size  of  1  small  teaspoon  soda, 

egg,  1  coffee  cup  of  milk. 

Put  in  a  form  or  bag  made  of  thick  cloth,  and  steam 
three  hours.     Serve  with  the  following  sauce: 

One  tablespoon  of  flour  stirred  smooth  with  cold  water, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  a  little  maple  syrup  and  enough  hot  water  to  make  a 
pint  of  sauce ;  boil,  and  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg. 

— ^Mrs.  P.  O'Meara. 

PLUM   PUDDING. 

1  cup  molasses,  i  teaspoon  soda, 

i  cup  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  raisins, 

•J  cup  butter,  2J  cups  flour, 

1  egg,  All  kinds  spices  and  pinch 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  of  salt. 

Steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  sour  sauce. 

—Mrs.  D.  F.  Bisbee. 


198 


WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING.     (Genuine.) 

i  pound  suet, 

i  pound  bread  crumbs, 

i  pound  flour, 

i  teaspoon  allspice, 

i  nutmeg, 

^   pound  currants, 

^  pound  raisins, 

i  pound  candied  peel, 

i  pound  figs, 


4  teaspoon  salt, 

^  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

i  teaspoon  ginger, 

4  pound  apples, 

IJ  ounces  almonds, 

i  pound  sugar, 

1  lemon, 

J  cup  molasses, 

4  or  5  eggs. 


Stone  the  raisins,  chop  the  apples,  suet,  peel,  figs  and 
almonds  separately,  grate  the  rind  and  strain  the  juice  of  the 
lemon.  Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given,  boil  in  a 
well  floured  cloth  or  basin  six  hours.  This  pudding  may  be 
divided  into  two ;  half  may  be  boiled  four  hours  and  put  aside 
until  needed,  when  it  must  be  boiled  again  two  hours  more. 

— Mrs.  F.  S.  Maryon. 

PLUM   PUDDING. 


1  cup  raisms, 

1  cup  currants, 

1  cup  suet, 

1  cup  bread  crumbs, 

1  cup  sugar, 

J  cup  sour  milk, 

Chop  the  suet  fine,  stir  the  ingredients  well  together, 
put  in  a  tin  pail,  set  the  pail  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  and  boil 
four  hours.    Very  nice.  — Mrs.  C.  H.  Miller. 


4  eggs, 

5  tablespoons  molasses, 
1  nutmeg, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  tablespoon  flour. 


DESSERTS. 


CHRISTMAS    PLUM    PUDDING. 
5  cups  flour,  3  tablespoons  shred  citron, 

i  pound  suet,  IJ  cups  milk, 

4  pound  sugar,  6  egga, 

i  pound  butter,  i  teaspoon  mace, 

1  pound  currants,  1  grated  nutmeg, 

1  pound  raisins,  ^  teaspoon  cloves. 

After  mixing  well,  pack  in  a  greased  mould  and  boil  five 
hours.     Decorate  with  holly.      — Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 

PRUNE   PUDDING. 
20  prunes,  stewed  soft         1  cup  of  the  syrup, 

in  rich  syrup,  5  whites  of  eggs. 

Remove  the  stones  and  chop  the  prunes  fine,  then  add 
the  syrup  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Stir  to- 
gether lightly  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.     Serve  immediately  with  whipped  cream. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

QUEEN    OF   PUDDINGS. 
3  cups  bread  crumbs,  4  egg  yolks,  beaten, 

1  quart  milk,  1  grated  lemon  rind, 

1  cup  sugar,  Butter,  size  of  an  egg. 

Mix  and  bake  until  well  done;  beat  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  into 
which  has  been  stirred  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Spread  a  layer 
of  jelly  over  the  pudding,  pour  the  whites  of  the  eggs  over 
this  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Serve  with  or  without 
cold  cream.  — Miss  Martha  Miller  Ott. 


200  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

EED  GELATINE  PUDDING. 
4  ^'platten"  (cakes)  i  pint  berry  juice, 

gelatine,  J  pound  sugai. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  hot  water,  add  the  other  ingred- 
ients, let  cool,  then  beat  one  hour.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

— Clara  L.  Kuechenmeister. 

RICE    PUDDING. 

^  cup  well  washed  rice,         1  quart  milk, 

^  cup  sugar,  Little  salt. 

Mix,  let  stand  one-half  hour,  then  bake  two  hours  or 
more,  slowly  at  first,  until  the  rice  has  softened  and  thickened 
the  milk;  then  let  it  brown  slightly.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 
Creamy  and  delicious. 

RICE    PUDDING. 

Boil  the  desired  quantity  of  rice  in  milk,  add  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  little  salt,  about  a  tablespoon  of 
cocoanut,  and  butter,  size  of  a  walnut.  Bake  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  — Mrs.  Lillian  Dangers. 

ROLY-POLY. 

Roll  out  a  rich  biscuit  dough  half  an  inch  thick;  spread 
with  any  fresh  or  preserved  fruit;  fold  over  the  dough  so 
the  fruit  will  not  run  out;  place  in  a  steamer  and  steam  one 
hour  or  a  little  more.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  a  rich 
pudding  sauce.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 


DESSERTS.  201 


SNOW   PUDDING. 

1  pint  boiling  water,  1  lemon,  rind  and  juice, 

2  tablespoons  corn  1  cup  sugar, 
starch,                              3  egga. 

Boil  all  together,  except  the  eggs,  until  done,  then  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  until 
well  mixed.     Make  a  custard  of  the  jolks  and  serve  cold. 

— Mrs.  Sophie  Bordoe. 

SNOW   PUDDING. 

1  pint  milk;  salt,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch,      2  whites  of  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk,  stir  in  the  cornstarch,  made  smooth  in  a 
little  cold  milk,  the  salt  and  sugar;  when  thickened  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  beat  thoroughly,  remove  from  the 
fire,  turn  into  a  mould  and  serve  with  the  following  custard : 

2  yolks  of  eggs,  IJ  cups  sweet  milk, 
2  tablespoons  sugar,  Flavoring;  salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar  and  salt,  add  the  milk  and 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  creamy ;  flavor  and  serve  ice  cold. 

— Mrs.  F.  M.  Schuler. 

STALE    CAKE    PUDDING. 

Fill  a  pudding  dish  with  different  varieties  of  stale  cake. 
About  half  an  hour  before  serving  pour  hot  sour  sauce  over, 
cover  and  let  stand  until  ready  to  serve. 

—Myrtle  C. 

14 


202  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

STALE    CAKE    PUDDING. 

3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

i  cup  milk,  1  cup  sugar, 

^  cup  melted  butter,  1  cup  flour, 

i  cup  raisins,  2  cups  grated  or  broken 

J  cup  currants,  stale  cake, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  Cinnamon,  vanilla. 

baking  powder.  Pinch  of  cloves. 
Put  in  a  pudding  dish  or  a  small  tin  pail,  leaving  room 
for  it  to  rise;  then  set  it  in  boiling  water  and  boil  three  hours 

or  more.  — Mrs.  Eliza  Weil. 

STEAMED   PUDDING. 

J  cup  milk,  J  teaspoon  cloves, 

-|  cup  molasses,  -|  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

J  cup  butter  (melted),         IJ  cups  flour. 
^  teaspoon  soda, 
Steam   in   a  greased  pan   one  and  one-half  hours  and 
serve  with  the  following  sauce: 

1  white  of  egg,  1  cup  boiling  water, 

1  cup  sugar,  Nutmeg  flavor. 

Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  stiff,  gradually  add  the  sugar, 
and  when  well  beaten  pour  into  the  boiling  water  and  flavor. 

— Mrs.  G.  Wenzel. 


DESSERTS.  203 

STEAMED    FEUIT    PUDDING. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  half  an  inch  thick 
with  any  kind  of  canned  or  fresh  fruit.  Cover  with  a  batter 
made  of  one  pint  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  milk 
enough  to  make  as  thick  as  cake  batter,  and  half  a  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Steam  half  an  hour;  serve  with  sweetened  cream.  Nice 
steamed  in  cups.  — Mrs.  S.  S.  Barney. 


SUET   PUDDING. 

1  cup  suet,  chopped,  2  eggs;  salt, 

1  cup  raisins,  3  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sugar,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Cut  the  raisins  in  halves,  mix  well  and  add  enough  sweet 
milk  or  water  to  miake  a  soft  dough.  Poll  in  a  cloth  and  steam 
two  hours  and  a  half.    Serve  with  sauce  preferred. 

— Mrs.  E.  S.  Lynch. 

SUET   PUDDING. 

3  cups  suet,  chopped,  1  cup  sour  milk, 
1  cup  molasses,                   1  teaspoon  soda, 

4  cups  flour,  1  cup  raisins;  salt, 
Steam  three  and  one-half  hours.        — Mrs.  McCabe. 


204  ■  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


SUET   : 

PUDDING. 

1  cup  suet, 

1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  raisins. 

J  cup  molasses. 

Salt  to  taste. 

1  cup  sour  milk, 

Flour  to  mix  medium. 

Steam  three  hours. 

— Mrs,  Etscheid. 

TAPIOCA 

-   PUDDING. 

4  cup  tapioca  in 

Salt, 

1  pint  water, 

6  eggs, 

1  quart  milk, 

1  cup  sugar, 

1  lemon  rind. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  cold  water  half  an  hour,  then 
put  it  in  a  sauce  pan  and  boil  slowly  twenty  minutes  or  until 
transparent;  if  it  becomes  too  thick  add  a  little  more  water. 
Bring  the  milk,  containing  the  yellow  rind  and  salt,  to  the 
boiling  point  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  yolks  with  the 
sugar,  add  to  the  milk,  stirring  until  smooth  and  creamy, 
but  not  allowing  it  to  boil;  when  thick  remove  from  the  fire, 
add  the  tapioca,  blending  thoroughly  and  pour  into  a  pudding 
dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  three 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  the  vanilla,  then  spread  it 
over  the  pudding  and  brown  lightly  in  the  oven.  Serve  very 
cold.    This  pudding  requires  no  baking  and  is  delicious. 

—Mrs.  C.  H.  Miller. 


DESSERTS.  205 


TAPIOCA   PUDDING. 

J  cup  tapioca,  3  tablespoons   sugar, 

1  pint  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

2  egg&, 

Soak  the  tapioca  over  night  in  water  enough  to  cover;  in 
the  morning  heat  the  milk  to  scalding  point,  put  in  the  tapioca 
and  boil  until  it  becomes  transparent,  then  add  the  yolks, 
which  have  boen  beaten  with  two  tablespoons  of  the  sugar, 
boil  about  three  minutes  longer,  then  turn  into  a  dish  and 
when  cool,  flavor.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  with  the  remaining  tablespoon  of  sugar,  spread  over 
the  pudding  and  brown  slightly;  or,  if  preferred,  cover  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened.    Serve  very  cold. 

— Anna  Flynn. 

CREAM    SAUCE. 
1  egg,  2  cups  whipped  cream. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar, 

Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  beaten 
yolk  and  sugar,  beat  well,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  add  the 
cream  last.  — Miss  Parloa. 

CREAMY   SAUCE. 

Butter,  size  of  egg,  1  teaspoon  flour, 

i  cup  powdered  sugar,        1  cup  water;  flavor. 


206  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  light  cream ;  add  flour  (made 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  water)  to  the  cup  of  water  and  cook 
until  like  thin  starch,  then  pour  slowly  into  the  creamed  but- 
ter and  sugar.  If  the  beating  be  not  stopped  the  whole  sauce 
will  rise  and  be  like  sea  foam.  — Mrs.  Forman. 

EGG   SAUCE. 
2  cups  sugar  and  6  tablespoons  boiling  milk, 

2  eggs  beaten  to  a  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

cream, 
Serve  at  once. 

EGG    SAUCE. 
i  pound  butter,  1  yolk  of  egg, 

i  pound  brown  sugar,        Little  nutmeg. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  stir  over  boiling  water 
until  liquid,  add  the  beaten  yolk,  stir  until  it  thickens,  then 
add  the  nutmeg. 

HARD  SAUCE. 
Peel  an  orange  in  six  even  parts  toward  the  stem  end, 
preserving  it  whole,  extract  the  juice  and  mix  it  with  a  light, 
moist  (Extra  C)  sugar  to  form  into  a  ball,  which  place  in 
the  peel  and  serve.  A  lemon  sauce  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way. 


DESSERTS.  207 


HAED  SAUCE  FOR  HOT  PUDDINGS,  RICE,  ETC. 

J  cap  sugar,  J  teaspoon  lemon,  vanilla, 

i  cup  butter,  or  little  nutmeg. 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream  and  add  flavoring. 
Keep  on  ice  till  very  hard,  — Selected. 


JELLY   SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons  jelly,  1  teaspoon  butter, 

1  cup  of  water.  Sugar  to  t-aste, 

3  or  4  cloves,  ^  teaspoon  cornstarch. 
Dissolve  the  jelly  in  the  water,  add  cloves,  butter,  sugar 

and  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Any  other  fruit  jelly  may  be  used. 

— Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 

LEMON   SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  PUDDINGS. 

2  lemons   (juice),  1  teaspoon  cornstarch, 
IJ  cups  water,                      2  yolks  of  eggs, 

1  cup  sugar. 

Boil  all  together,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
— Miss  Amanda  Franckenberg. 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


LEMON   SAUCE. 

^  cup  sugar,  1  grated  lemon  rind, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  white  of  egg. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  lemon  rind  and  well 
beaten  white  of  the  egg  last.  — Mrs.  E.  Lyon. 

SAUCE. 

1  cup  milk,  1  cup  sugar, 

2  eggs,  Flavor  to  taste. 

Pour  the  boiling  milk  over  the  creamed  eggs  and  sugar; 
stir  until  thick  and  flavor. 

SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  |  cup  sugar, 

2  even  tablespoons  flour.     Pinch  of  salt, 
1  pint  water,  Nutmeg,  vanilla. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  take  from  the  stove  and 
stir  in  the  flour  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  boiling  water  slowly, 
then  the  sugar  and  salt.  Cook  until  smooth  and  clear,  then 
flavor  with  vanilla  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

SAUCE   FOE   APPLE   OE  EICE  PUDDING.  * 

1  cup  molasses,  Little  salt, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  lemon  (juice). 

Boil  ten  minutes. 


DESSERTS.  209 


SOUR   SAUCE. 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

1  cup  water;  salt,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  lemon. 

Boil  enough  to  cook  the  flour. 


SUPERIOR  PUDDING  SAUCE. 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  lemon  (juice), 

1  cup  sugar,  1  glass  of  water. 

4  jolks  of  egg, 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  yolks  (beaten  very 
light)  and  the  lemon  juice;  beat  briskly  ten  minutes,  then 
pour  in  the  water,  stirring  all  the  time;  set  the  mixture  in  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  stir  until  it  becomes  heated, 
being  careful  not  to  let  it  boil. 

—Mrs.  P.  W.  Harns. 


PIE    CRUST. 

2  cups  flour,  1  egg  beaten  with 

1  cup  butter  or  lard,  2  tablespoons  cold  water. 

— Mrs.  W.  A.  Pors. 


210  WEST   BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

PIE  CRUST. 

1  cup  floTir,  i  teaspoon  salt, 

2  tablespoons  lard,  3  tablespoons  water. 

Mix  flour,  salt  and  lard  together,  then  divide  into  two 
parts;  mix  the  water  into  one  part  and  roll  it  out,  then  put 
the  dry  material  over  the  rolled  part,  fold  up  and  roll  again. 
This  method  makes  a  flaky  crust.  If  a  little  water  is  put 
over  the  lower  crust  of  any  pie  it  will  never  soak. 

— Mrs.  Allan  Bayley. 

PIE    CRUST. 

2i  cups  sifted  flour,  1  large  tablespoon  lard, 

J  teaspoon  salt,  Water  to  moisten. 

Sift  salt  and  flour  together,  rub  in  the  lard  thoroughly 
and  then  add  just  enough  cold  water  to  moisten  the  flour. 
This  makes  one  pie  with  two  crusts.  It  is  an  economy  of 
time  to  rub  enough  lard,  flour  and  salt  together  to  fill  a 
large  jar.  Prepared  in  this  way  it  will  keep  from  fall  until 
spring.  When  needed  take  one  handful  for  one  pie  crust, 
two  for  two  crusts  and  moisten  with  water  enough  to  roll  <mt. 

— Mrs.  Baker. 

PIE  CRUST. 

1  cup  flour,  i  cup  cold  water, 

2  even  tablespoons  lard.      Pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  lard,  flour  and  salt  together  with  a  knife  and  add 
the  water  last.  Work  dough  little  as  possible.  This  makes 
one  large  pie,  with  two  crusts.         — Mrs.  Peter  Baenke. 


DESSERTS.  211 


BAKING  POWDL'R  PIE  CEUST. 

1  cup  flour,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  tablespoon  lard.  Ice  cold  water  to  make  a 

Little  salt,  dough. 

CREAM   PIE   CRUST. 

Mix  pie  crust,  not  with  lard  and  water,  but  with  real 
cream,  and  it  agrees  with  the  stomach  and  suits  the  palate, 

TO    BAKE   A   PIE. 

Place  a  pie  in  a  very  hot  oven,  so  hot  the  hand  cannot  be 
held  in  it  a  moment,  close  the  door  for  ten  minutes,  to  raise 
the  crust,  then  open  the  door  and  finish  baking.  Pies,  baked 
ten  minutes  only,  in  this  way,  can  be  finished  baking  any  day 
of  the  week  and  will  taste  like  fresh  pies.        — Mrs.  L. 

APPLE   KUCHEN. 

Roll  coffee  cake  dough  thin,  pinch  up  the  sides  so  as  to 
hold  filling,  place  in  the  tin,  fill  with  apples  chopped  fine, 
sprinkle  one  cup  sugar  over  the  apples  and  pour  one-half  cup 
milk  mixed  with  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  over  the  sugar. 
Bake  and  when  cool  cover  with  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
stiff  and  sweetened;  brown  in  the  oven.  Cream  may  be  used 
in  place  of  the  milk  and  yolks. 

— Mrs.  Helen  Simon. 


212  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

APPLE  KUCHEN. 

2  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

2  teaspoons  baking  1  beaten  egg, 
powder,  1  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  sugar,  salt, 
Stir  together,  spread  in  a  shallow  tin,  cover  with  apples 
quartered  and  the  quarters  sliced  in  two,  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon  and  bake.     Serve  with  cream. 

— Mrs.  W.  N.  Hamilton. 

APPLE    PIE. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  Mrs.  Baker's  pie  crust,  fill  with 
sliced  sour  apples,  mix  one  teaspoon  of  flour  with  one  cup  of 
sugar,  sprinkle  over  the  apples,  put  on  the  top  crust  and  bake 
about  a  half  hour.  Another  nice  way  is  to  cook  the  apples 
first,  sweeten,  flavor  with  vanilla,  bake  in  one  crust  and  frost. 

— Anna  Flynn. 

APPLE   CUSTARD   PIE. 

3  egg  yolks,  4  good  sized  apples  grated, 
IJ  cups  sugar,  Nutmeg;  little  butter. 

1  cup  milk, 
Bake  and  frost  with  whites  of  two  eggs.    This  makes  two 
pies.  — Mrs.  F.  J.  Haas. 


DESSERTS.  213 


BERRY  PIE. 

Pick  over  the  berries  and  sprinkle  slightly  with  flour; 
add  about  one  cup  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  fruit.  Do  not  spoil 
the  fruit  flavor  by  using  spices.    Bake  with  two  crusts. 

— Mrs.  Lincoln. 

BUTTERMILK  PIE. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  egg, 

H  cups  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  butter, 

1  tablespoon  flour,  N'utmeg  flavor. 
Bake  with  one  crust.  — Mrs.  Westgate. 

CHEESE   TARTS. 

1  pint  cottage  cheese,  4  eggs, 

i  cup  currants,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

2  ounces  almonds  Sugar  to  taste, 
(chopped),  Lemon  flavor, 

Bake  in  tart  shells.  Nice  also  for  pies.  Bake  with  one 
crust. 

CRANBERRY   PIE. 

1  large  cup  split  berries,     ^  cup  water, 
1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  sifted  flour. 

Stir  well  together  and  put  into  crust.  Cover  with  an 
upper  crust  or  with  criss-cross  strips  of  pastry. 

—Mrs.  Gillett. 


214  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CREAM   PIE. 

Make  a  good  pie  crust  and  bake  in  a  pie  tin  for  under 
crust,  and  in  a  jelly  cake  tin  for  top  crust.  Filling:  Fl-om 
one  pint  of  milk  take  enough  to  moisten  half  a  cup  of  flour, 
and  boil  the  rest  with  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  and  beaten  yolks 
of  two  eggs;  then  stir  in  the  flour  and  boil  three  minutes. 
When  cold,  flavor  with  vanilla;  fill  bottom  crust  and  cover 
with  top  one.  Do  not  fill  crusts  until  ready  to  serve.  This 
makes  two  pies.  — Minnie  Wilmot. 

CREAM   PIE. 

4  beaten  whites  of  eggs,     1   teacup  sugar. 
1  pint  cream, 
Cook  over  boiling  water.     When  cool  enough,  flavor  and 
turn  into  baked  crust. 

SOUR  CREAM   PIE.     (Delicious.) 

1  cup  sour  cream,  J  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  sugar,  J  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  cup  stoned  raisins,  J  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

1  egg,  i  teaspoon  cloves. 

1  tablespoon  vinegar. 
Bits  of  fruit  can  be  added,  though  the  pie  is  very  rich 
without.     Bake  with  upper  and  under  crust. 

— Mrs.  Ida  Sexton. 


DESSERTS.  215 


SOUE   CREAM   PIE. 

1  cup  sour  cream,  A  little  nutmeg, 

1  egg,  Raisins  or  currants, 

3   tablespoons   sugar,  Bake  with  two  crusts. 

— Sarah  Lewis. 

CURRANT  PIE. 

1  cup  ripe  currants,  1   tablespoon   flour, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  egg9>. 

2  tablespoons  water, 

Mash  the  currants,  add  sugar,  water,  flour  and  beaten 
yolks.  Bake  with  one  crust  and  frost  with  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  two  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Cherry  pie  is  nice  made  in 
the  same  way.  — Miss  Nina  Hoag. 

CUSTARD   PIE. 

Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  crust  and  add  the  following 
filling: 

1  pint  milk,  3  tablespoons  sugar. 

Pinch  of  salt,  Flavor  to  taste. 

3  eggz,  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 

FRUIT   CUSTARD   PIE.     (Fine.) 

Line  a  pie  tin  with  crust,  cover  with  nice  fruit  of  any 
kind,  fill  with  a  rich  custard  and  bake.       — Sarah  Lewis. 


216  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


GREEN   TOMATO    PIE. 

6  peeled,  sliced  1  small  piece  butter, 

tomatoes,  Sprinkle  with  flour  and 

i  cup  vinegar,  allspice. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Bake  with  two  crusts  in  moderately  hot  oven. 

— Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch, 

JELLY    PIE.     (Southern.) 

i  cup  butter,  I  cup  jelly, 

i  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  flour, 

2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
■J  cup  cream, 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  other  ingredients  in  the 
order  given.  If  jelly  is  sour  use  one  cup  sugar.  This  filling 
is  for  one  pie  and  is  very  delicious.       — Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

KAESE  KUCHEN. 

2  cups  cottage  Pinch  of  salt, 

cheese,  4  eggs. 

1  cup  cream,  Sugar  to  taste. 

Stir  well  together.  Roll  out  kuchen  dough  like  thick 
pie  crust,  spread  in  kuchen  tin,  put  in  the  above  filling,  grate 

cinnamon  over  the  top  and  bake  at  once. 

— Mrs.  Lutzen. 


DESSERTS.  217 

LEMON   PIE. 
1  lemon,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

1  coffee  cup  sugar,  |  cup  milk. 

2  eggs, 

Grate  the  lemon  rind,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  then  chop 
the  remainder  fine.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar,  add  the  lemon, 
flour  and  milk,  pour  into  a  tin  lined  with  rich  crust  and  bake. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one  table- 
spoon sugar,  spread  over  the  pie  when  done  and  brown  slightly. 

— Mrs.  S.  S.  Barney. 

LEMON   PIE. 

^  6ggs,  Butter,  size  of  egg, 

2  cups  boiling  water,  2  lemons, 

2  cupa  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch. 

Rub  the  cornstarch  smooth  in  cold  water,  then  stir  the 
boiling  water  into  the  starch,  add  the  sugar,  butter,  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  the  lemons,  and  when  nearly  cool  add  the 
yolks  and  one  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  together.  Beat 
the  remaining  whites  with  two  tablespoons  sugar,  spread  over 
the  pies  after  they  are  baked,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  brown 
a  few  minutes  in  the  oven.  — Mrs.  B.  Fairbanks. 

LEMON   PIE. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  crust  and  add  the  following  filling ; 
li  lemons  (juice),  2  tablespoons  flour, 

1  cup  sugar,  h  cup  milk. 

2  yolks  of  eggs. 


218  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

Mix  and  bake.  Take  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  add 
powdered  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  spread  over  the 
top  of  the  pie  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Line  a  tin  with  flaky  crust,  pricked  with  a  fork,  and 
bake.     Then  add  the  filling: 

1  cup  boiling  water,  J  cup  cold  water, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 

Butter,  size  of  walnut,        2  tablespooms  cornstarch. 

1  lemon, 

Boil  the  cup  of  water,  sugar  and  butter  together,  then 
add  the  cornstarch  wet  with  the  cold  water,  the  beaten  yolks, 
the  juice  and  a  very  little  of  the  rind  of  the  lemon.  When 
thoroughly  cooked,  fill  the  crust  and  cover  with  a  meringue 
made  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  and 
a  little  lemon  juice.    Bake  until  a  delicate  brown. 

— Frances  E.  Ott. 

LEMON   PIE. 

2  lemons,  juice  and  2  egg  whites, 
grated  rind,  1  cup  watei, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  com- 

5  egg  yolks,  starch. 

When  baked,  cover  the  top  with  a  frosting  made  of  three 
egg  whites  and  six  tablespoons  powdered  sugar.  Brown  deli- 
cately. — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 


DESSERTS.  219 

LEMON  PIE. 

1  large  lemon,  1  teaspoon  butter, 

1   cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch, 

1  cup  boiling  water,  1  egg. 

Mix  the  large  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  with  the  sugar, 
pour  the  scant  cup  of  boiling  water  over,  boil  five  minutes, 
then  add  the  butter,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemon  and 
the  beaten  egg.    Fill  a  baked  crust  and  frost. 

— Mrs.  Charles  Handke. 

LEMON   CRUMB   PIE. 

2  eggs,  I  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
IJ  pints  cold  water,             1  pint  bread  crumbs, 

1  large  lemon,  1  cup  sugar. 

Put  the  butter  in  a  quart  cup,  add  water,  juice  and  rind 
of  lemon,  beaten  yolks,  the  large  pint  of  soft  bread  crumbs 
and  the  sugar;  cook  over  water;  fill  a  baked  crust  and  frost 
with  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  — Mrs.  M.  Gramlow. 

NELL'S   LEMON   PIE. 

1  egg,  2  tablespoons  corn- 

1  cup  sugar,  starch. 

1  teaspoon  butter,  1  lemon. 


220  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

Moisten  the  cornstarch  with  as  little  water  as  possible, 
then  pour  over  enough  boiling  water  to  cook  it,  add  sugar  and 
butter;  then  beat  the  yolk,  add  lemon  juice,  grated  yellow, 
beat  together  well,  add  to  the  cornstarch  mixture,  fill  a  baked 
crust,  frost  with  the  egg  white  and  one  tablespoon  sugar. 
Brown. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

3  pounds  boiled  beef,  1  ounce  cinnamon, 

1^  pounds  suet,  J  ounce  cloves, 

2  pounds  raisins,  J  ounce  allspice  , 

2  pounds  currants,  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind, 

■J  pound  citron,  sliced,        ^  tablespoon  salt, 
2  quarts  apples,  J  tablespoon  pepper, 

2  grated  nutmegs,  1  pound  sugar. 

Chop  separately,  beef,  suet,  citron  and  apples  fine,  wash 
and  dry  the  currants,  mix  thoroughly  in  a  large  pan,  then 
put  the  following  ingredients  in  a  porcelain  kettle: 

1  pint  boiled  cider,  1  cup  sweet  pickle  syrup, 

1  pint  sweet  cider,  1  good  lump  butter, 

1  pint  molasses,  1  glass  wild  grape  jelly, 

Let  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  the  mixture  in  the  pan ; 
stir  well  together,  place  on  the  stoive  and  cook  five  minutes. 
This  recipe  will  make  enough  mince  meat  to  fill  a  two  gallon 
jar.  — Ida  M.  Helms. 


DESSERTS.  221 


MINCE  MEAT. 

2  pounds  chopped,  lean,  1  tablespoon  cloves, 

fresh  beef,  1  tablespoon  allspice, 

1  pound  beef  suet,  1  tablespoon  salt, 
5  pounds  apples,  1  nutmeg, 

chopped  fine,  1  pint  molasses, 

2  pounds  seeded  raisins,      J  pound  citron, 

2i  pounds  brown  sugar,       1  quart  cider,  or,  better, 
2  pounds  currants,  syrup  from  crabappie  or 

2  tablespoons  cinna-     •  peach  pickles, 

mon, 
Add  also  liquid  from  the  beef  after  being  boiled  down. 
Mince  meat,  canned  hot,  like  fruit,  and  sealed  in  glass  jars, 
will  keep  for  months.  — Hortense  E.  Mooers. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

1  pint  beef,  2  pounds  brown  sugar, 

1  pint  pork,  1  pint  cider  vinegar, 

2  quarts  apples  (sour),  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
1  pound  seedless  raisins.  Cinnamon  flavor. 

Chop  beef,  pork  and  apples,  add  the  raisins  whole  and 
flavor  highly.     Cook  about  an  hour;  keep  in  a  gallon  jar. 

— Mrs.  Albert  Story. 


222 


WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


MINCE   MEAT. 


6  pounds  lean  beef, 
boiled  and  chopped, 

2  bowls  chopped  sour 
apples  to  each  bowl 
of  meat, 

2  pounds  raisins, 

2  pounds  currants, 

1  pint  molasses, 

1  cup  vinegar, 

1  cup  cider. 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1   teaspoon  nutmeg, 
1  teaspoon  cloves, 

1  teaspoon  allspice, 
10  cents  worth  citron 

2  pounds  brown  sugar, 
1  glass  of  jelly, 

1  pint  mixed  fruit  juices, 
i  pound  suet  (chopped), 

2  lemons  (juice  and  rind), 


Butter,  size  of  egg, 
Boil  very  slowly  three  hours  in  the  liquor  in  which  the 
meat  was  boiled.    This  makes  two  gallons  and  will  keep  until 
July.  — Mrs.  Fred  Althaus. 


GREEN  TOMATO  MINCE  MEAT. 


1  peck  tomatoes, 
5  pounds  sugar, 
1  pound  raisins, 
1  pound  currants, 

1  tablespoon  cloves, 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon^ 


1  cup  suet, 

1  tablespoon  salt, 

2  teaspoons  nutmeg, 
1  teaspoon  ginger, 

1  cup  vinegar, 
1  cup  boiled  cider. 


Chop  tomatoes  fine,  drain,  put  over  fire  in  cold  water, 
bring  to  a  boil,  drain,  repeat  the  process,  then  cook  tomatoes, 
sugar,  raisins,  currants,  chopped  suet  and  salt  together  one 
hour,  then  add  cider,  vinegar  and  spices,  let  come  to  a  boil 


DESSERTS.  223 


and  seal,  while  hot,  in  mason  jars.  This  makes  six  quarts 
and  is  better  than  the  old  way  of  using  meat  and  apples. 
Try  it.  —Mrs.  Wm.  Alton. 

MOCK  MINCE  MEAT. 

5  pounds  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cloves, 

2  pounds  raisins,  1  tablespoon  nutmeg, 

3  lemons,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 
1  cup  vinegar,  1  peck  green  tomatoes. 

Chop  the  tomatoes  fine,  seed  tlie  raisins,  stir  all  together, 
using  the  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemons  and  cook  until 
tender.  — Mrs.  Mayhew. 

MOCK  MINCE   MEAT. 

1  cup  sour  cider,  6  soda  crackers,  rolled  fine, 

2  cups  cold  water,  Ur  cups  melted  butter, 
1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  currants, 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

— Mrs.  Sophie  Bordoe. 

MOCK   MINCE   PIE. 

14  cups  thick  sour  milk,  1  tablespoon  molasses, 
1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  tablespoon  vinegar  or 
1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  cooked  cranberries, 

1  egg,  salt,  pepper,  Spices;  little  butter, 

Bake  in  two  crusts.    Makes  two  pies. 

— Anna  Gorgon. 


224  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

PEAE  PIE. 

Line  a  pie-plate  with  pie-crust  and  put  a  rim  of  pastry 
about  it.  Slice  pears  to  heap  the  plate.  Mix  a  half  cup 
sugar,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  little  can- 
died ginger  root,  sliced  thin,  and  sprinkle  the  mixture  over 
the  pears.  Cover  with  a  latticed  crust  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  — Mrs.  Lou.  C. 

PIE-PLANT    FOR   PIES. 

1  pound  of  figs,  cut  5  pounds  of  pieplant  and 

fine  and  cooked  with        5  pounds  of  sugar. 

— Mrs.  Ford  Washburn. 

MOTHER'S  PIE-PLANT  PIE. 

1  cup  cooked  pieplant,        2  yolks  of  eggs, 
1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Bake  with  one  crust  and  frost  with  the  whites  of  two 

eggs.     Uncooked,  chopped  pie-plant  with  one  egg  and  two 

cups  sugar  makes  a  nice  pie. 

PIE-PLANT    PIE. 

1  cup  milk  (scant),  1  cup  cooked  pieplant, 

3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

1  cup  sugar,  Butter,  size  of  hickory  nut. 

Bake  in  one  crust  and  frost. 

— Mrs.  Adolph  Laubenstein. 


DESSERTS.  225 


PEUNE  PIE. 

Stew  one  pound  of  prunes  until  tender,  pit  and  mash  to 
a  pulp,  add  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  ginger.  Bake 
in  one  crust.    When  ready  to  serve,  cover  with  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  Knoller. 

PUMPKIN   PIE. 

3  cups  pumpkin,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

stewed  dry  and  2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 

mealy,  sifted,  2  teaspoons  ginger, 

IJ  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  quart  milk. 
Stir  the  pumpkin,  sugar,  salt,  spices  and  eggs  together 
well,  then  add  the  milk.     This  makes  two  pies. 

— Miss  Hor tense  Weil. 

PUMPKIN   PIE. 

1  quart  pumpkin,  1  quart  rich  milk, 

1  pound  brown  sugar,         6  eggs. 

Salt;  cinnamon,  Ginger. 

Put  in  a  very  hot  oven,  bake  six  minutes,  then  check  the 
heat,  let  the  oven  cool  off  a  little  and  finish  baking  moder- 
ately.   This  makes  two  pies.  — Mrs.  G.  D.  Gould. 

16 


WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


KEADY  FRUIT   PIES. 

Bake  pie  crust  on  a  flat  plate;  when  cold,  spread  over 
any  kind  of  fresh  or  spiced  fruit,  preserves  or  jam.  Cover 
with  whipped  cream  to  which  has  been  added  the  well  beaten 
white  of  one  egg,  sugar  and  flavoring.  Bake  the  crust  and 
keep  for  use  at  any  time. 

— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 

STRAWBERRY   PIE. 

Bake  a  rich  pie  crust;  when  cool  fill  with  crushed  straw- 
berries, sweetened.     Frost  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

VINEGAR   PIE. 

1^  cups  water,  ^  tablespoon   flour. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

i  cup  vinegar,  i  teaspoon  butter. 

Boil  till  thick  and  bake  in  one  crust. 

SHORTCAKE. 

Sift  one  scant  quart  flour  with  one  teaspoon  soda  and 
one-half  teaspoon  sugar,  several  times.  Add  butter  or  lard, 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  thoroughly,. moisten  with  sour  milk, 
spread  on  two  pie  tins  and  bake.  Slice  one  or  two  quarts  of 
strawberries,  sweeten  to  taste,  spread  between  the  layers  and 
on  top.  Cover  with  sweetened  whipped  cream  to  which  the 
beaten  white  of  an  egg  has  been  added.  Serve  with  plain 
cream.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 


DESSERTS.  227 


SHORTCAKE. 
1  pint  flour,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

Sweeft  milk,  4  tablespoons  melted  butter, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  add  butter  and  enough 
milk  to  make  soft  dough.  Bake  in  two  tins,  fill  and  cover 
with  fruit  and  serve.  — Mrs.  M.  P.  Harrison. 

STRAWBERRY   SHORTCAKE. 

•J  cup  milk,  1  large  tablespoon  butter, 

1  large  cup  flonr,  1  large  tablespoon  sugar, 

1  egg.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  batter,  sugar  and  egg  together  well,  then  add  the 
other  ingredients  and  bake  in  buttered  pic  dish;  cut  open 
while  warm ;  when  cool  spread  on  thick  layer  of  crushed  fruit, 
sprinkled  with  sugar;  replace  the  top  and  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar.    Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

— Marie  0.  Wehle. 

WINTER    SHORTCAKE. 

1^  cups  flour.  Sweet  cream  for  dough, 

IJ  teaspoons  baking  Salt  as  for  biscuit, 

powder, 
Bake  in  buttered  pan,  setting  a  tin  over  which  does  not 
close  it  entirely.     When  done,  cut  in  pieces,  open  each  piece 
and  put  in  a  large  spoonful  of  canned  black  raspberries,  close 
nicely,  and  cover  each  piece  with  the  berries. 

— Frances  E.  Ott. 


228  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

A   DAINTY   DESSERT. 

Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  rye,  brown  or  wheat,  into 
a  glass  serving  dish;  sprinkle  slightly  with  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon ;  over  this  put  a  layer  of  whipped  cream,  which  has  been 
sweetened  and  flavored ;  on  this  put  little  dots  of  jelly  or  jam, 
then  bread  crumbs  again,  and  so  on  until  the  bowl  is  filled, 
having  the  whipped  cream  piled  lightly  on  top.  Set  aside  in 
a  cool  place  until  time  to  serve.  Have  at  least  three  layers 
of  each.  — Mrs.  Emil  C.  Pors. 


ANGEL  PARFAIT. 

i  cup  water,  1  pint  cream, 

J  cup  sugar,  1  cup  English  walnuts  or 

3  whites  of  eggs,  1  cup  candied  cherries. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads,  then  remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  it  into  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beat  well  and  flavor ;  when  cold  gently  stir  in  the  cream  which 
has  been  beaten  stiff,  and  add  the  chopped  nuts  or  the 
cherries.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt  four  hours;  do  not  turn  the 
freezer.  One-half  cup  cherries  and  one-half  cup  walnuts 
makes  a  delicious  substitute  for  one  whole  cup  of  either. 

— Mrs.  Paul  Rix. 


DESSERTS.  229 


APPLE    FLOAT. 

Pare,  remove  the  cores,  and  steam  six  large  sour  apples 
until  tender,  then  beat  until  fine  and  light,  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Serve  ice  cold  with 
cream.  — Miss  Daisy  Cooley. 

APPLE   SHAPE. 
1  pound  apples,  1  pint  water, 

i  tablespoon  lemon  i  ounce  gelatine, 

rind,  1  or  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Peel,  core  and  stew  the  apples  with  the  grated  lemon 
rind,  in  a  half  pint  of  water;  when  soft,  rub  through  a  sieva. 
Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  remaining  water,  add  the  apple 
and  stir  in  the  sugar.  Fill  a  mould  with  cold  water,  turn  out, 
let  drain,  put  in  the  apple  and  when  cold  serve  with  cream  or 
custard.  The  quantity  of  sugar  used  must  depend  on  the 
sourness  of  the  apples.  — Mrs.  George  Enger. 

BAKED  APPLES. 
Wash  and  core  apples,  fill  the  cavities  with  sugar,  put  in 
deep  cake  tin  with  a  quarter  cup  sugar  and  a  cup  of  water, 
sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  and  bake  until  tender. 

BAKED  PEACHES. 
Ripe  peaches,  or  peaches  that  are  too  green  to  eat,  may 
be  made  delicious  by  being  baked.    Cover  well  with  sugar  and 
put  a  little  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.    Baste  often  with 
the  syrup.    Serve  either  hot  or  cold  with  cream. 

—Mrs.  H.  B.  Hitz. 


230  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

BAKED  PIE-PLANT. 

Cut  peeled  pieplant  in  half -inch  pieces,  add  one  cup  of 
sugar  to  each  cup  of  pieplant,  bake  in  granite  dish,  without 
water,  until  tender.  — Mrs.  Sawyer. 

BAKED  PEARS,  QUINCES  AND  BANANAS. 

Pare  and  core  the  pears,  fill  the  cavities  with  sugar,  place 
in  a  pan  containing  a  little  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  four  hours.  Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream.  Eipe 
quinces  may  he  baked  the  same  way,  but  require  much  less 
time.  Serve  hot  with  butter  and  sugar.  Bananas  should  be 
peeled,  cut  in  halves,  sprinkled  with  sugar,  put  in  a  shallow 
pan  containing  a  little  water,  and  baked  about  twenty  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven. 

CARAMEL  TAPIOCA. 

Soak  one  cup  of  pearl  tapioca  over  night;  in  the  morn- 
ing cover  with  water  an  inch  deep,  add  two  cups  light  brown 
sugar  and  boil  until  transparent,  then  add  two  tablespoons 
vanilla  and  serve  ice  cold  with  cream. 

— Mrs.  N.  Kegelson. 

CREAMED  APPLES. 

Bake  four  large  apples,  remove  the  skins  and  cores,  add 
one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  beat  over  half  an 
hour,  or  until  creamy.     Serve  ice  cold.     — Mrs.  Hazlitt. 


DESSERTS.  231 


BANANA  CKEAM. 

Mash  bananas,  take  an  equal  quantity  of  cream  and  to 
one  quart  of  the  mixture  use  one-half  cup  sugar;  beat  all  to- 
gether until  light,  and  serve  ice  cold. 

BANANA  CEEAM. 

i  box  gelatine,  5  egg  whites, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  whipped  cream, 
§  cup  sugar,  3  or  4  sliced  bananas. 

2  egg  yolks,  * 

Soak  gelatine  in  milk,  then  put  in  double  boiler  and  cook 
till  dissolved ;  beat  sugar  and  yolks  together,  add  to  the  milk, 
stir  until  cooked,  then  remove  from  fire  and  when  oootl  add 
the  well  beaten  whites,  eveam  and  bananais. 

— Mrs.  H.  Hanson. 

BANANA  DESSERT. 

1  cup  sugar,  l^-  cups  water, 

1  heaping  tablespoon  1  tablespoon  orange 

com  starch,  juice. 

Cook  until  like  custard.  Place  alternate  layers  of  sliced 
bananas  and  custard  in  little  glass  cups  and  serve. 

— Mrs.  M.  Rabideau. 


232  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM. 

3  eggs,  1  quart  rich  milk, 

4  tablespoons  sugar,  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 
3  tablespoons  chocolate. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar,  add  the  grated  chocolate  and 
stir  into  the  boiling  milk;  when  it  begins  to  thicken  remove 
from   the   fire,   and   when  cold   add   the  vanilla;   then   take 

1  pint  cream,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  IJ  dozen  macaroons. 

Whip  the  creani,  add  the  sugar  and  vanilla,  spread  it  on 
top  of  the  custard,  and  over  this  place  the  macaroons. 

— M.  L.  Walthall. 

DELICIOUS  CREAM. 

1  pint  whipped  cream,        Bitter  almond  flavor, 
1  cup  sugar,  3  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

Beat  all  together,  pour  into  a  glass  dish  and  serve  ice 
cold.  — Mrs.  Osman. 

ITALIAN  CREAM. 

1  pint  cream,  -i  package  gelatine, 

6  egg  whites,  1  cup  water. 

Whip  cream  very  light,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites ;  dis- 
solve gelatine  in  the  water  and  add  to  the  whip,  mixing  very 
lightly,  flavor  with  vanilla,  stir  until  it  begins  to  harden,  then 
put  in  mold  and  let  stand  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

—Mrs.  W.  North. 


DESSERTS.  233 


MAPLE  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

1  cup  maple  syrup,  i  cup  cold  water, 

i  package  Knox  3  egg  yolks, 

gelatine,  li  cups  cream. 

1  cup  walnut  meats, 
Boil  syrup  and  pour  gradually  on  the  beaten  yolks,  beat 
and  cook  over  hot  water  until  thick,  add  the  gelatine  (dis- 
solved in  hot  water)  then  add  the  nuts  and  put  on  ice  until 
the  mixture  begins  to  harden;  then  fold  in  the  whipped 
cream,  let  harden  and  serve  ice  cold.  One  cup  sugar  syrup 
flavored  with  mapleine  may  be  used  instead  of  maple  syrup 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  may  be  substituted  for 
whipped  cream.  — Mrs.  G.  A.  Gross. 

PERSIAN  CREAM. 

1  quart  sweet  milk,  4  eggs, 

i  box  gelatine,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  sugar, 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  when  almost  boil- 
ing add  the  gelatine  (dry).  Stir  until  dissolved,  then  add 
the  sugar  and  yolks  beaten  together.  Cook  to  the  consistency 
of  custard,  then  remove  from  the  fire,  add  vanilla  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  stir  thoroughly,  pour  into  moulds, 
and,  the  day  after  making,  serve  with  cream. 

—Mrs.  P.  W.  Harns. 

16 


234  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM. 

i  box  gelatine,  Sugar  to  taste, 

1  pint  water,  3  whites  of  eggs. 

1  grated  pineapple. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  water,  add  the  pineapple  and 

sugar  and  when  it  begins  to  jelly  whip  in  the  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs  and  set  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream.  — Minnie  Wilmot. 

SWEDISH  CREAM. 

I'ake  one  cup  of  raisins,  cut  each  in  two,  cover  with  a 
half  cup  of  hot  water  and  let  stand  an  hour.  Put  some  stick 
cinnamon  in  three  cups  of  hot  water  and  cook  ten  minutes, 
then  remove  the  cinnamon  and  add  to  the  water 

4  tablespoons  vinegar,        |  coffee  cup  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  molasses,       Little  salt. 
4  tablespoons  cornstarch, 

Cook  until  clear,  then  add  the  raisins  and  cook  one  or 
two  minutes  longer.  Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream  flavored 
with  cinnamon.     This  will  serve  a  company  of  twelve. 

— Mrs.  John  Conrad. 

SWISS  CREAM. 

Flavor  one  quart  of  scalded  cream  with  a  teaspoon  of 
vanilla  and  sweeten  to  taste.  When  nearly  cold  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  five  eggs,  boil  up  thoroughly  just  once  and. 
pour  into  cups.  — Mrs.  Eliza  Weil. 


DESSERTS.  235 


VARIEGATED  CREAM. 

Whip  sweet  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  sweeten,  flavor  and  put 
on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Melt  two  cakes  of  Balcer's  chocolate  in  a 
dish  set  in  hot  water,  stir  lightly  into  the  cream,  put  in  the 
freezer  and  freeze  without  stirring.  When  ready  to  serve  wrap 
a  hot  cloth  around  the  freezer  and  the  cream  will  come  out 
whole.     This  is  delicious  and  very  pretty. 

—Mrs.  J.  0.  Boyle. 

DATE  WHIP. 

i  cup  dates,  4  egg  whites, 

i  cup  hot  water,  I  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Steam  and  chop  dates  and  cook  in  the  water  to  a  smooth 
paste,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  fold  in  the  sugar  and 
date  paste;  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  until  set,  then  serve  with 
the  following: 

4  egg  yolks,  4  tablespoons  sugar. 

2  cups  sweet  milk, 
Beat  together  and  cook  to  a  custard.  — D.  W. 

DATE  WHIP. 

Mix  one  pound  of  dates,  stoned  and  cut  into  six  pieces 
each,  with  one  pint  whipped  cream,  and  serve  ice  cold. 

PEACH  WHIP. 

Beat  one  cup  chopped  peaches  with  one-half  cup  sugar, 
and  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  for  a  half  hour.  Serve  ice 
cold  with  whipped  cream.  — Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 


236  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

PKUNE  WHIP. 

Cook  one-half  pound  of  prunes  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon ; 
remove  the  stones  and  cut  the  prunes  fine  with  a  wire  potato 
masher;  whip  the  whites  of  four  eggs  very  dry,  add  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  stir  in  the  prunes  with  a  spoon,  set  in  a  dish  of 
hot  water  and  bake  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

PKUNE  WHIP. 

Stew  thirty  prunes  until  tender  and  sweeten  to  taste; 
when  cold  remove  the  stones,  cut  the  prunes  into  small  pieces, 
and  put  into  a  baking  pan ;  then  whip  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  a  little  at  a  time  with  the  prunes  until 
thoroughly  mixed.  Bake  brown.  Serve  cold  as  possible  with 
following  sauce: 

Boil  one  scant  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  thicken  a 
little  with  cornstarch,  sweeten,  and  pour  the  boiling  mixture 
over  the  four  well  beaten  yolks ;  stir  well  and  flavor  to  taste. 

— Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

2  eggs,  1  pint  milk, 

3  tablespoons  sugar,  Pinch  of  salt, 

1   tablespoon  cornstarch,     Flavor  to  taste. 


DESSERTS.  237 


Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  sugar,  add  the  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  and  the  salt;  stir  into  the  boiling 
milk  and  cook  until  it  thickens;  when  slightly  cool,  flavor  and 
turn  into  a  shallow  glass  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
with  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  drop  a  spoonful 
at  a  time  in  slowly  boiling  water  and  let  remain  a  few  seconds 
until  cooked;  then  remove  one  at  a  time  with  a  skimmer  and 
lay  carefully  on  the  dish  of  float;  or,  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
may  be  cooked  altogether  in  the  form  of  a  pyramid,  lifted 
with  9  plate  and  laid  on  the  float.     Serve  ice  cold. 

— Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 

FRUIT  JELLY. 

1  cup  boiling  water,  ^  cup  sugar, 

I  box  gelatine,  3  oranges, 

i  cup  cold  water,  2  bananas, 

1  lemon,  4  figs. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  gelatine,  which  has  been 
soaked  in  the  cold  water,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  a  part  of 
the  sugar,  cut  the  fruit  in  pieces  and  arrange  them  in  a  glass 
dish,  using  the  rest  of  the  sugar;  strain  the  gelatine  over  the 
fruit.  — Mrs.  Eliza  Weil. 


WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


FRUIT  JELLY. 

,6  oranges,  1  cup  cherries, 

6  bananas,  1    cup    walnuts    or   hickory 

6  peaches,  nuts. 

1  can  pineapples, 

Peel  and  slice  the  oranges,  bananas  and  peaches;  fill  a 
dish  which  has  been  dipped  in  cold  water,  with  alternate 
layers  of  fruit  and  sugar;  then  make  a  lemon  gelatine  as  fol- 
lows: 

1  pound  sugar,  4  lemons  (juice),  and  a  lit- 

1  pint  boiling  water,  tie  cherry  juice. 

1  box  gelatine, 

Set  the  dish  containing  the  gelatine  on  the  stove  and  stir 
in  the  boiling  water  until  dissolved,  then  add  the  sugar  and 
juices;  when  cool,  pour  over  the  fruit  and  set  in  a  cool  place 
until  it  all  becomes  a  solid  mass.        — Mrs.  G.  P.  Boden. 

BANAISTA  SALAD. 

Cook  two  beaten  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  the  juice  of 
two  lemons  and  the  juice  of  two  oranges,  in  a  double  boiler. 
When  cold  add  whipped  cream,  cut  bananas  in  halves  length- 
wise, place  two  on  each  individual  dish,  pour  dressing  over 
and  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts. 

—Mrs.  C.  M.  E.  Bedell. 


DESSERTS.  239 


FEUIT  SALAD. 

3  large  oranges,  1  cup  walnuts, 

4  bananas,  1  cup  sweetened 
-J  cup  sugar,  cream. 

Cut  the  oranges  in  cubes,  slice  the  bananas,  mix,  sprinkle 
with  the  sugar  and  let  stand  until  ready  to  serve,  then  add  the 
walnuts  and  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  A.  L.  Crump. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

Slice  oranges,  bananas  and  apples,  add  a  few  green 
grapes,  make  a  dressing  as  for  banana  salad,  but  instead  of 
sprinkling  the  nuts  over,  mix  them  with  the  dressing. 

—Mrs.  C.  M.  R.  Bedell. 

GRAPE  NUT  SALAD. 

1  large  apple,  -J  cup  sugar, 

1  banana,  1  cup  grape  nuts. 

Chop  the  apple  fine,  slice  the  banana  fine,  mix  thoroughly 
and  serve  with  cream.  — Mrs.  G.  A.  Knoller. 

MARSHMALLOW  SALAD. 

In  the  morning,  pour  one  pint  of  canned  pineapple  (the 
juice  may  not  quite  all  be  needed)  over  one  pound  of  marsh- 
mallows,  let  stand  till  night  to  soften  the  marshmallows. 
Serve  in  individual  dishes,  sprinkle  rolled  walnuts  over  and 
cover  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Doty. 


240  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

HIMMEL  FUTTEE. 

2  eggs,  beaten,  1  teaspoon  baking 

1  cup  sugar,  powder, 

2  heaping  tablespoons  I-  pound  dates, 
flour,  i  pound  walnuts. 

Chop  the  dates  and  walnuts,  mix  all  together  thoroughly 
and  bake  one-half  hour. 

2  bananas  and  2  oranges,  sliced;  sprinkle  the  oranges 
with  one-half  cup  sugar  and  let  stand  one-half  hour  before 
serving.  Break  up  the  cake  fine  on  a  platter,  place  bananas 
and  oranges  over,  then  cover  with  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  E.  Weininger. 

MAPLE  SYRUP  PARFAIT. 

4  yolks  of  eggs,  1  pint  cream,  beaten, 

1^  cups  maple  syrup,  1   pound  English  walnuts. 

Beat  the  yolks  to  a  cream,  add  the  maple  syrup,  put  in  a 
double  boiler  and  cook  to  the  consistency  of  custard,  then 
remove  from  the  fire  and  let  get  perfectly  cold.  (This  part 
may  be  made  the  day  before  serving,  if  desired.)  Add  the 
cream  and  the  chopped  nuts.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt  four 
hours.  — Mrs.  Paul  Rix. 

ROTHE  GRUETZE  (German). 

Boil  five  parts  fresh  berry  juice,  one  part  sago  and  sugar 
to  sweeten,  for  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar 
or  any  cream  sauce.  — Clara  L.  Kuchenmeister. 


DESSERTS.  241 


STEAWBEERY  SPONGE. 

i  box  gelatine,  3  whites  of  eggs, 

1  pint  milk,  Pinch  of  salt, 

4  cup  sugar,  Flavoring. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  milk  half  an  hour,  then  dissolve 
by  stirring  over  boiling  water  half  an  hour;  remove  from  the 
fire  and  when  cool  add  the  sugar,  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
salt  and  flavoring;  the  strawberries  may  be  added  at  this 
point  and  the  whole  placed  on  ice  to  harden,  or  the  sponge 
may  be  made  separately,  dished  in  glasses,  and  the  berries, 
well  sweetened,  placed  on  the  top.  — Mrs.  Gilbert. 


ICE  CEEAM. 

2  quarts  fresh  milk,  1  quart  cream. 

1  package  Knox  gelatine,     4  beaten  whites  of  eggs, 

2  cups  sugar,  Vanilla. 

Heat  one  quart  of  the  milk  and  dissolve  the  gelatine  and 
sugar,  then  strain  and  add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  cream  and 
whites  of  the  eggs.  When  fruit  cream  is  desired  put  the  above 
mixture  into  the  freezer,  turn  until  it  begins  to  freeze  then 
add  crushed  fruit  or  juice,  sugared,  instead  of  vanilla.  Nice 
with  one  can  pineapple,  one  pint  of  peaches,  and  one  cup 
strawberry  juice.  — Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 


242 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


ICE  CREAM. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk;  when  almost  boiling  add  flour 
enough  dissolved  in  milk,  to  make  a  thin  milk  gravy;  then 
boil  it  twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  add  one  and  one- 
half  cups  sugar  and  let  boil  up,  then  strain  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  more  sugar  if  needed,  one  pint 
of  cream,  the  well  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs  and  two  table- 
spoons of  vanilla.     Freeze.  — Elizabeth  Dunham. 


ICE  CREAM. 


1  quart  milk, 
1  quart  cream. 

Pack  and  freeze. 


2   yolks    and    6    whites    of 
eggs,   beaten    separately, 
Sugar  and  flavor  to  taste. 
-Mrs.  Charles  A.  Silberzahn. 


3  cups  sugar, 
2  eggs;  flavor, 
Freeze. 


ICE  CREAM. 


1|  quarts  milk, 
IJ  quarts  cream, 


ICE  CREAM. 

1  cup  sugar,  1   quart  milk, 

4  eggs,  1  pint  cream. 

Beat  sugar  and  eggs,  stir  into  the  boiling  milk  and  when 
cooked  strain ;  cool,  add  the  cream  and  flavoring,  then  freeze. 

— Mrs.  A.  Husting. 


DESSERTS  243 

ICE  CKEAM. 

Cook  three  beaten  eggs  in  a  quart  of  boiling  skim  milk 
in  a  double  boiler,  sweeten,  flavor  and  let  stand  over  night; 
in  the  morning  add  one  pint  of  cream.     Freeze. 

— Miss  Clara  Jones. 

ICE   CREAM. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  quart  cream, 

5  beaten  eggs,  IJ  heaping  tablespoons  flour. 

1  quart  milk. 
Stir  sugar  and  flour  together,  add  eggs,  stir  into  the  boil- 
ing milk,  cook  till  thick,  add  cream ;  freeze. 

Two  and  one-half  quarts  cream  and  milk  when  frozen, 
makes  one  very  full  gallon.    Three  pints  makes  fifteen  dishes. 

— Mrs.  W.  Herrick. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM. 

3  pints  milk ;  salt,  J  cake  Baker's  chocolate, 
5  eggs;  sugar,  1  pint  of  cream;  vanilla. 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  the  yolks  of  Uie 
eggs  beaten  light  with  sugar,  and  salt;  if  it  does  not  thicken 
readily  add  a  very  little  cornstarch  stirred  smooth  in  milk. 
Stir  the  custard  constantly  to  keep  it  smooth.  When  cooked, 
remove  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  melted  chocolate  and  set  away 


244  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

to  cool.  Just  before  freezing,  mix  the  custard,  cream,  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  vanilla  flavor.  More  cream  may  be 
used,  but  a  pint  makes  it  good  and  rich.  Use  only  Baker's 
chocolate,  as  no  other  will  mix  smoothly  with  the  custard.  If 
not  perfectly  smooth,  strain  before  adding  the  cream. 

— Sara  Barney. 


COCOANUT  ICE  CEEAM. 
1  quart  cream,  ]  large  cocoanut, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  white  of  egg. 

Whip  the  cream  stiff,  mix  with  the  sugar  and  add  the 
cocoanut,  grated  fine;  when  partially  frozen,  add  the  beaten 
white  of  the  egg. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM. 

1  pint  new  milk,  1  pint  cream, 

i  pound  coffee  (f  Java      1  heaping  cup  sugar, 

and  i  Mocha.)  2  whites  of  eggs. 

Pour  the  milk  into  a  double  boiler,  add  the  coffee,  let  come 
to  the  boiling  point,  remove  from  the  fire  and  strain  through 
cloth.  Let  stand  until  cold  then  add  the  whipped  cream, 
sugar,  and  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  in 
the  freezer  and  pack.  — Lillian  Dangers. 


DESSERTS  245 


EXCEiLLEiNT  ICE  CREAM. 

1  quart  milk,  ^  cup  flour;  flavor, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  quart  cream. 

Heat  the  milk  and  sugar  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  flour, 
let  almost  boil,  then  strain  through  a  sieve;  when  cold  flavor, 
add  more  sugar,  and  the  cream.    Freeze. 

— Mrs.  Claire  Foster. 

HOT  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM. 

1  pound   brown   sugar,      i  pint  fresh  sweet  milk, 

2  ounces  bitter  chocolate,    1  ounce  best  butter. 

Boil  together  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in 
cold  water.    Pour  hot  over  each  dish  of  cream. 

— Mrs.  G.  A.  Boden. 

MAPLE  ICE  CREAM. 

2  cups  maple  syrup,  l  quart  cream. 

2  eggs. 

Cook  the  syrup  until  it  hairs,  then  stir  until  cool,  add 
the  beaten  yolks,  cream  and  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Freeze. 

MAPLE  SYRUP  ICE  CREAM. 

1  cup  milk,  1  pint  maple  syrup. 

1  pint  cream,  whipped, 
^'^^^^-  -Mrs.  P.  W.  Harns. 


246  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

LEMON  ICE. 

1  quart  water,  6  lemons. 

1  pint  sugar, 
Boil  the  water  and  sugar,  then  add  the  juice  of  all  the 
lemons  and  the  grated  rinds  of  two,  being  careful  not  to  grate 
the  bitter  part.    Pack  and  freeze. 

ORANGE  ICE. 

3  pints  water,  6  lemons, 

1  pound  sugar,  6  oranges. 

Boil  the  water  and  sugar  to  a  syrup,  then  cool  and  add 
the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  oranges  and  the  rinds  of  two 
lemons.    Pack  and  freeze.  — Amanda  Franckenberg. 

STRAWBERRY   ICE 

Hull  and  wash  two  quarts  of  very  ripe  strawberries,  put 
them  in  a  large  bowl  with  a  large  cup  of  sugar,  mash  and  let 
stand  half  an  hour,  then  add  a  quart  of  cold  water  and  the 
juice  of  three  lemons;  strain  and  freeze. 

— Mrs.  Gilbert. 

LEMON  MILK  SHERBET. 

2  large  lemons  (juice),       1  pint  sugar, 
2  lumps  loaf  sugar,  1  quart  milk. 

Rub  the  lemons  well  with  the  lumps  of  sugar,  then  squeeze 
the  juice  over  all  the  sugar  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Add  the 
milk  just  before  freezing.  — Mrs.  Oilman, 


DESSERTS  247 


LEMON  MILK  SHERBET. 

2  quarts  milk;  sugar,         h  pint  water, 
1  tablespoon  flour,  1  pint  sugar, 

1  pint  cream;  vanilla,        6  lemons   (juice). 

Boil  the  milk,  thicken  with  the  flour  made  smooth  in  a 
little  cold  water,  sweeten  to  taste,  remove  from  the  fire  and 
when  partially  cool  add  the  vanilla  and  cream,  then  put  it  in 
the  freezer  and  when  it  begins  to  freeze  add  the  water,  pint  of 
sugar  and  lemon  juice.  If  other  fruit  is  added  use  only  three 
lemons.  — Mrs.  B.  M.  Custis. 


PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

1  quart  grated  pine-  1  quart  cold  water, 

apple,  2  lemons   (juice). 

1|  pounds  sugar, 

Stir  over  the  fire  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  let  stand 
one-half  hour,  strain  and  pour  into  the  freezer;  when  it  be- 
gins to  stiffen  add  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  with  one  table- 
spoon of  fine  sugar,  and  turn  the  handle  of  the  freezer  a  few 
times,  then  pack  and  allow  to  stand  a  few  hours. 

— Amanda  Franckenberg. 


248  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

STRAWBERRY  NECTAR  (Delicious). 

1  quart  strawberries,  3  pints  water, 

1  lemon,  |  pounds  powdered  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  orange 
juice, 

Mash  the  strawberries,  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  orange 
juice  and  water,  let  stand  three  hours,  then  strain  on  the  sugar 
and  stir  until  dissolved.  Serve  ice  cold.  Cherry  nectar  may 
be  inade  by  substituting  cherries  for  strawberries. 

— Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 


Cakes. 


"Now  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite 
and  health  on  both/' 


ALMOND  CAKE. 

8  eggs,  1  lemon  (juice  and  rind); 

1  cup  sugar,  |  pound  citron, 

1  cup  grated  crackers,        1  cup  sweet  almonds. 
Stir  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar  for  half  an  hour 
then  stir  in  the  crackers,  lemon,  citron  and  almonds.    Beat 
whites  of  eggs  and  stir  in  lightly.    Bake  half  an  hour. 

— Marie  Klumb. 

ALMOND  CAKE. 

6  eggs,  ^  pound  grated  almonds, 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,        1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Stir  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  aJmonds,  baking  pow- 
der and,  lastly,  whites  of  eggs.  — Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 


250  WEST   BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

ANGEL.  CAKE. 

8  whites  of  large  eggs,       IJ  cups  granulated  sugar, 
Pinch  of  salt,  Flavor  to  taste, 

^  teaspoon  cream  tartar,     1  cup  flour. 
Sift,  measure  and  set  aside,  the  sugar  and  flour;  add  the 
salt  to  the  egg,  whip  to  a  foam,  add  the  cream  tartar,  whip 
very  stiff,   add  sugar,  beat,   add   flavor,  beat,  then   fold  in 
the  flour  lightly.  — Mrs.  W.  E.  Wolfrum. 

ANGEL  FOOD. 

J  cup  sugar,  J  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

i  cup  flour,  6  whites  of  eggs. 

Sift  large  measure  of  sugar  and  small  measure  of  flour 
with  the  cream  of  tartar  several  times;  then  fold  in  lightly 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  flavor  and  bake  forty  minutes. 

— Miss  Nellie  White. 

ANGEL  FOOD. 
1 1  whites  of  eggs,  fresh       1  tumbler  flour,  sifted  four 

and  very  cold,  times;  add 

1  J  tumblers  pulverized         1  teaspoon  cream  tartar  to 
sugaT,  flour  and  sift  again. 

Measure  flour  after  it  is  sifted  the  last  time.  Sift  and 
measure  the  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the 
sugar  (lightly),  flour  and  one  teaspoon  flavoring.  Do  not 
stop  beating  until  the  cake  is  in  an  ungreased  pan  to  bake. 
When  baked  one  hour,  turn  pan  upside  down  to  cool. 


LOAF  CAKES.  251 


ANGEL  FOOD. 

1  cup  whites  of  eggs,  1  even  teaspoon  cream 

1  cup  fiour,  tartar, 

1^  cups  sugar. 
Sift  the  flour  and  sugar  separately,  several  times.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  foam,  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and 
beat  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  then  stir  in  the  sugar  thoroughly  and 
fold  in  the  flour  very  lightly,  stirring  little  as  possible  after 
the  flour  is  added.  — Mrs.  Thomas  Hughes. 

MOCK  ANGEL  CAKE. 

IJ  cups  flour,  1  cup  boiling  milk, 

1  cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 

2  teaspoons  baking  1  teaspoon  flavoring, 
powder,  2  egg  whites. 

Add  beaten  wliites  last  and  bake  forty  minutes  in  a  very 
slow  oven.  — Mrs.  G.  W.  Garvey. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE. 

1^  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

i  cup  shortening,  1  cup  apple  sauce, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  2  cups  flour;  salt, 

-J  teaspoon  cloves,  1  cup  raisins, 

i  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  cup  nuts,  rolled. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  shortening,  add  the  salt  and  flavor- 
ings, then  dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  water  and  stir  thor- 
oughly into  the  unsweetened  apple  sauce ;  mix  all  together  and 
bake  slowly  about  an  hour.  — Mrs.  Manley. 


252  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

APRICOT  CAKE. 

i  pound  butter,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

i  pound  sugar,  1  layer  apricots, 

2  eggs,  J  pound  blanched  almonds, 

i  pound  flour,  i  pound  powdered  sugar. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time, 
and  the  flour,  containing  the  baking  powder,  a  little  at  a  time, 
beating  thoroughly.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  tin  with  removable 
sides.  When  cold,  spread  a  layer  of  apricots,  from  which  the 
juice  has  been  thoroughly  drained,  on  top;  then  cover  with  a 
mixture  of  the  grated  almonds  and  powdered  sugar,  and  bake 
slowly  one-half  hour.  — Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 

BEST  EVER  CAKE. 

1  heaping  cup  f  cup  sugar, 

flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 

1  tablespoon  butter,  powder, 

1  unbeaten  egg,  -J  teaspoon  salt, 

1  teaspoon  vanilla,  Sweet  milk. 

Melt  the  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  cup,  when 
lukewarm  add  the  egg  and  vanilla,  then  fill  the  cup  with  milk. 
Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt  together  three 
times,  then  stir  all  together  two  minutes  and  bake. 

—Mrs.  C.  M.  R.  Bedell. 


LOAF  CAKES.  253 


BISHOFS  BREAD. 

1  cup  sugar,  1|  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
3  eggs,  beaten,  1  cup  unblanehed  almonds, 
1^  cups  flour,  1  cup  seedless  raisins. 

Add  the  almonds  and  raisins  whole. 

Slice  the  entire  loaf  thin  while  warm  and  brown  in  the 
oven,  if  preferred.  Will  keep  for  weeks.  May  also  be  baked  in 
two  layers.  — Mrs.  G.  P.  Boden. 

BRIDE'S  CAKE. 

2  pounds  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
IJ   pounds  butter,               Almond  flavor, 

2  pounds  flour,  22  whites  of  eggs. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  the 
flour  into  which  the  cream  tartar  has  been  sifted,  the  flavoring 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  last.  Bake  in  a  six-quart 
pan.  — Mrs.  Henr}^  Wittenberg. 

BRISTOL  CAKE.   (English.) 
9  ounces  butter,  12  ounces  currants, 

9  ounces  sugar,  1  ounce  grated  almonds, 

6  eggs,  9  ounces  flour. 

2  ounces  citron. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  beat  the  yolks  with  the  but- 
ter and  sugar,  add  the  well  beaten  whites,  citron,  currants,  al- 
monds and  flour.  Bake  about  an  hour  in  a  pan  lined  with 
buttered  paper;  then  beat  nine  ounces  of  pulverized  sugar 


254 


WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


with  two  or  three  eggs,  spread  on  cake  and  bake  a  half  hour 
longer.  While  baking  stand  the  cake  pan  on  a  plate  of  salt  to 
keep  from  burning.  — Mrs.  Frederick  L.  Mary  on. 

BKOVVN  CAKE. 


1^  cups  brown  sugar, 
i  cup  butter  or  meat 

fryings, 
1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  cup  sour  milk, 


liaisins  to  taste, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
^  teaspoon  cloves, 

2  cups  flour. 

— Mrs.  R.  N.  Seward. 


BROWN  CAKE. 


3  cups  flour, 
1  cup  butter, 

4  eggs;  pinch  of  allspice, 
1  cup  milk, 

1   teaspoon   cinnamon, 
J  a  nutmeg. 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
2  cups  light  brown  sugar, 
^  cup  seedless  raisins, 
1  tablespoon  chopped  citron, 
1  cup  grated  almonds, 
1  lemon    (juice). 
—Mrs.  Alfred  H.  Weil 


CHERRY  CAKE. 


3  eggs, 
1  cup  sugar, 
i  cup  butter, 
1  teaspoon  soda  in 
3  tablespoons  sour 
cream. 


IJ  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  each,  cloves,  cin- 
namon and  nutmeg. 

1  cup  canned  cherries 
drained  from  juice. 
—Mrs.  H.  Roedtke. 


LOAF   CAKES.  255 


CHEERY  CAKE. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  2  cups  flour  (scant), 

1  cup  sugar,  1  level  teaspoon  baking  pow- 

1  egg,  der. 

1  cup  milk, 
Place  in  coffee  cake  tin,  strew  with  fresh  cherries,  stoned, 
and  sprinkle  freely  with  powdered  sugar.    Bake.    Serve  with 
sugar  and  cream.  — Marie  0.  Wehle. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE.    (Layer  or  Loaf.) 

i  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda  in 

1  cup  sugar,  1  heaping  cup  flour, 

1  egg,  f  inch  Baker's  chocolate, 

i  cup  sour  milk,  ^  cup  boiling  water. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  dissolve  the  grated  chocolate 
in  the  water;  mix  in  the  order  given,  beating  well.  Batter 
should  be  thin.  — Mrs.  R.  N.  Seward. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

2  ounces  grated  10  ounces  flour, 
chocolate,  5  eggs,  beaten  separately, 

6  ounces  butter,  ^  cup  milk, 

10  ounces  powdered  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

sugar.  Cinnamon  and  vanilla. 

Bake  slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  pan  lined  with 
buttered  paper.  — Mrs.  Ernest  Franckenberg. 


256  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
i  cup  butter,  |  cup  boiling  water, 

2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

2  eggs,  beaten,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

i  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

i  pound  chocolate,  2^  cups  flour. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  dissolve  the  chocolate  in  the 
water,  let  cool,  then  mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given 
and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.      — Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

CHOCOLATE  WALNUT  CAKE. 
1^  cups  sugar,  2^  cups  flour, 

■J  cup  butter,  3  even  teaspoons  baking 

2  eggs  and  1  yolk,  powder, 

1  scant  cup  milk.  Vanilla  flavor. 

Bake  in  square  tin.  Frost  with  a  boiled  icing  to  which 
has  been  added  one-half  bar  grated  chocolate  and  one-half 
pound  chopped  walnuts.  — Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

1  egg,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  sugar,  3  squares  chocolate, 

1  cup  milk,  ^  cup  butter. 

1-|  cups  flour, 

Stir  egg  and  sugar  together,  add  half  the  milk  and  all 
the  flour;  dissolve  the  soda  in  the  remaining  milk,  add  that 
and  the  melted  chocolate.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  dish  the 
cliocolate  was  melted  in  and  add  last.  — Mary  Blueker. 


LOAF  CAKES.  257 


CITRON  CAKE. 

1  pound  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  citron, 

3  eggs;  spices,  J  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

5  cents  worth  almonds,        1  cup  flour. 
Cut  the  almonds  in  large  pieces  and  the  citron  in  small 
strips;  mix  the  ingredients,  spread  on  tins  and  bake;  cut  in 
squares  while  hot.  — Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

2  eggs,  I  cup  butter, 
1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour, 

f  cup  milk,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 

powder. 
Frost  with  eight  teaspoons  sugar  and  two  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  together  and  flavor.    Sprinkle  the  frosting  with  cocoa- 
nut.  — Mrs.  Fred  Wolfrum. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

1  cup  molasses,  2  teaspoons  soda, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  each  of  spices 
1  egg,  preferred, 

■J  cup  cold  coffee,  i  cup  raisins. 

1  cup  lard.  Flour. 
Do  not  mix  too  stiff.  — Mrs.  Campfield. 


258  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  4  teaspoon  cloves, 

I  cup  butter,  J  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

i  cup  molasses,  2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  soda  in  2  cups  flour. 
1  cup  cold  coffee, 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  — Beata  Hirth. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

1  pint,  fresh  milk,  i  lemon  rind  (grated), 

1  small  cup  butter,  1  small  cake  compressed 

1  cup  sugar,  yeast, 

1  egg,  Flour. 

Set  a  sponge  with  the  milk,  yeast  and  flour;  when  light, 
add  the  other  ingredients,  mix  into  a  stiff  sponge,  let  rise, 
then  roll  quite  thin,  place  in  tins  or  pie  plates  and  let  rise 
again.  When  light,  spread  with  melted  butter,  then  sprinkle 
thick  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  mixed  with  a  little  flour,  and 
bake.  —Mrs.  C.  H.  Miller. 

RAISED  COFFEE  CAKE. 

2  cents  worth  yeast,  2  eggs, 

2^  cups  milk,  J  cup  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  |  cup  melted  butter. 

Soak  the  yeast  in  a  half  cup   of  warm  milk   for  ten 

minutes;  then  add  two  cups  of  warm  milk  and  enough  flour 

to  make  a  thick  batter;  let  rise,  add  remaining  ingredients, 

stir  well  and  add  flour  enough  so  the  sponge  will  drop  from 


LOAF  CAKES.  259 


the  spoon.  Beat  thoroughly  and  spread  about  three  fourths 
of  an  inch  thick  on  buttered  tins.  When  light,  brush  over 
with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  strew 
almonds  over  the  top  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

—Mrs.  Emma  Wilkie. 

TOASTED  COFEEE  CAKE. 

Slice  the  coffee  cake  and  cover  with  a  white  frosting, 
spread  cocoanut  thickly  over  the  top  and  put  in  the  oven  to 
toast.  — Agnes  M.  Haase. 

KAFFEE  KUCHEN. 

Dissolve  two  cents  worth  of  compressed  yeast  in  a  cup 
half  filled  with  lukewarm  milk;  then  add  a  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Sift 
and  warm  slightly  about  two  pounds  of  flour;  warm  one 
quart  of  milk,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  also  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  rendered  butter,  a  scant  cupful  of  sugar,  a 
teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  and  the  grated  rind  of  lemon.  Make  a 
hole  in  the  center  of  the  flour,  put  in  the  cup  of  raised  yeast, 
stir  in  gradually  the  contents  of  the  milk  bowl,  add  three 
beaten  eggs.  When  all  is  mixed,  work  the  dough  with  the 
hand  but  do  not  knead  it;  guard  against  making  it  too  stiff, 
work  the  dough  until  it  leaves  both  the  hands  and  the  dish 
perfectly  free  from  dough.  Cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
until  morning.  Butter  the  cake  pans,  roll  out  enough  dough 
to  cover  them,  let  stand  about  half  an  hour  before  baking, 


260  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

then  brush  well  with  butter,  sprinkle  sugar,  cinnamon,  and 
some  chopped  almonds  on  top,  or  take  a  lump  of  butter,  a 
very  little  flour,  some  sugar  and  cinnamon,  rub  it  between  the 
hands  until  it  is  like  lumps  of  almonds,  strew  over  cakes  and 
bake.  — Mrs.  James  Friedlander. 

CKEAM  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  IJ  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sweet  cream,  1  teaspoon  flavoring, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  2  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff 
baking  powder,  and  added  last. 

Mrs.  B.  W.  C. 

CRUMB  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  cup  shortening,  3J  cups  flour, 

3  eggs,  1  cup  milk, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  flavoring. 

Mix  the  sugar,  shortening,  baking  powder,  salt  and  flour 
together,  like  pie  crust,  until  crumby ;  take  out  one  cup  of  the 
crumbs,  then  add  to  the  remainder  the  beaten  yolks,  milk„ 
flavor  and  the  beaten  whites  last;  put  in  a  cake  pan,  cover 
with  the  cup  of  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  — Mrs.  F.  Greenwood. 


LOAF  CAKES.  261 


DATE  CAKE.     (Filled.) 
1  cup  brown  sugar^  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  level  teaspoon  soda,        2|  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  2  cups  oatmeal, 
f  cup  shortening,                 ^  teaspoon  salt. 

Stir  the  soda  in  the  sour  milk. 

Filling. 

Cook  one  pound  of  stoned  dates,  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
one-half  cup  water  until  thick. 

Put  one-half  the  dough  in  a  cake  pan,  spread  the  filling 
over  with  a  spoon,  cover  with  the  rest  of  the  dough  and  bake 
an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  — Mrs.  Wm.  Bruce. 

DATE  CAKE. 

2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sliced  dates, 

1  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  grated  walnuts. 

Stir  yolks  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  flour,  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  dates  and  nuts.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in 
a  spring  form.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

— Meta  Pick. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD. 
i  cake  bitter  chocolate,       ^  cup  butter, 
i  cup  boiling  water,  2  eggs, 

1  level  teaspoon  soda,  -|  cup  sour  milk, 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  2^  cups  flour  (scant). 
Mix  the  grated  chocolate,  water  and  soda  and  let  stand 

while  the  other  ingredients  are  mixed  in  the  order  given,  then 
add  the  chocolate.  — Mrs.  P.  B,  Craney. 


262  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD. 

PART  I. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  grated  chocolate,      2  teaspoons  vanilla. 
Boil  sugar,  chocolate  and  milk  in  double  boiler,  then  let 
cool,  add  vanilla,  and  stir  into 

PART  II. 

1  cup  sugar,  .  2  eggs, 

J  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

^  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour. 

Bake  in  loaf  or  two  layers.  — Mary  Bertram. 

DOUGH  CAKE. 

1  cup  bread  dough,  1  egg, 

1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda  in 

J  cup  butter,  J  cup  warm  water, 

i  cup  lard,  J  teaspoon  cloves, 

1  cup  brown  sugar  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  cup  raisins,  |  teaspoon  allspice. 
Bake  one  hour.  — Mrs.  V.  WoUner. 


LOAF  CAKES.  263 


DRIED  APPLE  CAKE. 

3  cups  dried  apples,  1  cup  butter, 

1  cup  molasses,  2  heaping  teaspoons  soda  in 

3  eggs,  beaten,  ]  cup  strong  coffee, 

1  cup  sugar,  4  cups  flour;  spices. 

Soak  the  apples  over  night  in  warm  water,  in  the  morn- 
ing chop,  and  simmer  them  in  the  molasses  one  hour,  then  add 
the  other  ingredients  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  H.  Mead. 

DUTCH  CAKE. 

Make  a  rich  shortcake  and  spread  on  a  square  tin,  sprinkle 
over  this  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon,  then  pour  over 
a  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  bake  a  half  hour. 

— Sara  Lewis. 

EGGLESS,  BUTTERLESS,  MILKLESS  CAKE. 

i  cup  lard,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  cup  sugar,  J  teaspoon  cloves, 

2  cups  raisins   (cut),  -J  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  water. 

Boil  all  together  three  minutes,  then  add  the  following: 

2  cups  flour,  -J  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
1  cup  hickory  1  teaspoon  soda,     dissolved 

nuts   (rolled),  in  a  little  water. 

— Mrs.  J.  Maas:. 


264 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


FARINA  CAKE. 
8  eggs,  2  cups  farina. 

2  cups  sugar, 
Stir  yolks,  sugar  and  farina  together  one-half  hour;  add 
beaten  whites.    Bake  slowly.    Do  not  jar  the  oven. 

— Mrs.  S.  F.  Mayer.      . 


FRANKIB^S    BIRTHDAY    CAKE. 

1^  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter, 


3  eggs,  well  beaten, 
1  cup  sour  cream, 
i  cup  sour  milk, 


1  teaspoon  wintergreen, 
1  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
1  teaspoon  soda;  citron, 


1  cup  seeded  raisins.  Flour  to  make  proper  con- 


dredged  with  flour. 
Bake  slowly  in  a  large  tin. 


sistency. 

—Mrs.  Abigail  Johnson. 


FRUIT  CAKE. 


^  cup  butter  and 
1  cup  sugar,  creamed 
4  eggs,  well  beaten, 
1  bar  sweet  chocolate. 


3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

3  small  cups  flour, 

i  pound  raisins, 

I  pound  almonds,  cut  coarse. 


Mix  in  order  given.    Use  one  cup  of  the  flour  for  dredg- 
ing raisins  and  nuts.  — Mrs.  Frances  E«.  Ott. 


LOAF   CAKES. 


265 


FRUIT  CAKE. 


1  cup  butter, 

1  cup  brown  sugar, 
^  pint  molasses, 

2  eggs, 

1  cup  sour  milk. 


1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  pound  flour, 
1  pound  currants, 
1^  pounds  raisins. 
Flavor  to  taste. 
— Mrs.  Jennie  Sackerson. 


2  cups  butter, 
2  cups  sugar, 
1  cup  syrup, 

5  cups  flour, 
1  cup  sweet  milk, 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

6  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
^  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  teaspoon  allspice. 


FRUIT  CAKE. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  pound  raisins, 

1  pound  currants, 

2  pounds  dates, 
J  pound  citron, 
J  cup  almonds, 
J  cup  walnuts, 
i  cup  pecans, 
i  cup  Brazil  nuts, 
2  tablespoons  rose  water. 


Seed  the  raisins,  cut  dates  and  citron  in  fine  pieces, 
blanch  and  cut  the  almonds,  dredge  the  fruit  with  flour. 
Makes  two  good-sized  cakes. 

— Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 


18 


266  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

FEUIT  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses. 

1  cup  meat  fryings,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  teaspoon  soda  in  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

I  cup  boiling  water,  4  cups  flour, 

1  cup  raisins,  3  eggs,  beaten. 

1  cup  currants, 

Sift  the  cinnamon  and  cloves  with  the  flour  and  add  the 
eggs  last.    Nice  baked  in  gem  pans. 

— Amy  Wooldredge. 

BLACK  FRUIT  CAKE. 

2 J  pounds  raisins,  1  pound  butter, 

2  pounds  currants,  14  eggs, 

IJ  pounds  citron,  IJ  cups  molasses, 

1  pound  almonds,  3  nutmegs, 

1^  pounds  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  cinna- 

1  pound  flour,  mon. 

Seed  the  raisins,  cut  fine,  wash  and  dry  the  currants 
thoroughly,  cut  the  citron  fine,  blanch  and  pound  the  almonds, 
dredge  all  the  fruit  with  flour,  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
the  eggs  separately,  then  stir  them  together;  cream  the  but- 
ter and  sugar,  then  stir  into  it  gradually  and  alternately  the 
other  ingredients,  pour  into  a  well  greased  pan  lined  with 
paper  and  bake  five  hours  in  a  slow  oven,  or  divide  into  two 
cakes,  and  bake  four  hours.        — ^Mrs.  W.  E.  Wolfrum. 


LOAF  CAKES.  267 


WHITE  FEUIT  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour, 

-J  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

^  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  lemon, 

-J  cup  raisins,  4  whites  of  eggs,  well 

i  cup  citron,  beaten. 
Chop  the  raisins,  cut  the  citron  fine  and  add  the  whites 

of  the  eggs  last.  — Mrs.  W.  L.  Kissell. 

SYLVIA'S  EVERY  DAY  FEUIT  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter,  1  scant  teaspoon  ginger, 

2  cups  sugar,  i  nutmeg, 

1  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda  in 

3  eggs,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon,         6  cups  flour, 

1  even  teaspoon  cloves,        2^  cups  raisins, 
1  even  teaspoon  allspice,      2^  cups  currants. 

— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 


GERMAN  CAKE. 

I  cup  melted  butter,  stir     4  eggs, 

until  cold  and  creamy,     J  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
1  cup  granulated  sugar,       1  heaping  cup  flour. 
Strew    almonds,    cinnamon    and    sugar    on   top    before 
baking  — Mrs.  J.  H.  Sinclair. 


268 


WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


GERMAN  DATE  CAKE 


2  whole  pieces  sweet  Ger- 
man chocolate, 

1  small  teaspoon  baking 
powder  in 

8  soda  crackers   (rolled). 


9  eggs, 

I  pound  sugar, 
1  large  lemon  (juice  of 
half  and  grated  rind 
of  whole), 
6  ounces  dates. 
Stir  yolks,  sugar,  lemon,  dates  and  grated  chocolate  to- 
gether from  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes;  then  add  crackers  and 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.     Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  or 
longer.    Frost  with  chocolate  icing.     Considered  very  fine. 

— Mrs.  A.  B.  Liebermann. 


GINGER  BREAD. 


2  eggs, 

1  cup  molasses, 
^  teaspoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon  melted 
butter, 
Bake  in  long  tin  thirty  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

—Mrs.  A.  H.  Smith. 


1  teaspoon  soda  in 

1  cup  boiling  water, 

2  cups  flour, 

1  tablespoon  ginger. 


LOAF  CAKES.  269 


GINGER  BREAD. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  ginger, 

J  cup  lard,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

i  cup  butter,  ^  teaspoon  cloves, 

1  cup  molasses,  3  eggs, 

2  level  teaspoons  soda.  Flour  to  mix  moderately 

1  cup  sour  milk,  stiff. 

In  place  of  one  cup  sour  milk  and  two  teaspoons  soda,  one 
cup  coffee  and  one  teaspoon  soda  may  be  used. 

— Mrs.  John  Conrad. 

GINGER  BREAD. 

2  eggs,  I  cup  sour  cream  filled  with 
i  cup  syrup,  filled  heap-  melted  butter, 

ing  with  yellow  sugar.      Little  cinnamon, 

1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  soda  stirred  in 

2  cups  flour,  part  of  cream. 

Bake  slowly  in  two  dripping  pans  and  cut  in  squares. 
Very  nice  baked  in  patty  tins. 

— Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD. 
1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

1  cup  molasses,  4  eggs, 

1  cup  sugar,  2J  cups  fiour, 

2  teaspoons  soda,    •  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoon  ginger. 

Excellent.  — Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 


270  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

OLD  FASHIONED  GINGER  BREAD. 

4  tablespoons  melted  1  teaspoon  soda, 

butter,  1  teaspoon  ginger. 

4  tablespoons  hot  water. 
Put  ingredients  in  a  coffee  cup,  fill  with  molasses  then 
stir  enough  flour  into  the  mixture  to  make  a  dough,  roll  about 
an  inch  thick  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  S.  De  Long. 

SOFT  GINGER  CAKE. 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar,      1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
i  cup  lard,  1  teaspoon  allspice, 

1  cup  molasses,  ^  cup  raisins, 

1  cup  cold  water,  4  cup  currants, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  1  quart  flour. 

1  teaspoon  ginger. 
Stir  easy,  bake  slowly,  frost  if  desired. 

— Mrs.  Oliver  C.  Johnson. 

GINGER  CAKE. 

i  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  ginger, 

i  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 

1  egg,  I  cup  cold  water. 

Butter,  size  of  an  egg,  If  cups  flour. 
Bake  twenty-five  minutes.  — Nora  O'Connell. 


LOAF  CAKES.  271 


NELL'S  GINGER  CAKE. 

J  cup  shortening,  1  teaspoon  soda  in 

1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  hot  water, 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  ginger. 

Flour  to  mix  thick  as  pancake  batter. 

GRAHAM  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  melted 
1  cup  milk,  butter, 

1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  cup  graham  crackers 

1  cup  flour,  rolled  fine, 

1  cup  walnuts,  J  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  butter,  sugar,  yolks,  milk  and  vanilla  together 
well,  then  add  the  crackers,  salt,  flour  and  baking  powder, 
nuts  and  the  beaten  whites  last.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  and 
when  done  cover  with  the  following  uncooked  frosting  stirred 
together  well : 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1|  cups  powdered  sugar,  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  milk  to  moisten.  — Mrs.  J.  Foley. 

GROOM'S  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  J  teaspoon  soda, 
1  cup  butter,                       3^  cups  flour, 

J  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  cream  of 

5  eggs,  tartar. 

Flavor  with  lemon  and  add  the  beaten  whites  last. 

— N.  O'Connell. 


272  WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE. 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately,     1  cup  hickory  nut  meats,  or 

1  heaping  cup  sugar,  ^  pound  blanched  almonds, 

2  cups  farina,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

— Louise  Silberzahn. 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter,  3  cups  flour, 

2  cups  sugar,  7  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to 
2  yolks  of  eggs,  stiff  froth, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  pint  hickory  nuts,  rolled 

1  teaspoon  soda,  and  sprinkled  with  flour. 

2  teaspoons  cream  tartar, 

— Mrs.  Jennie  Sackerson. 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
i  cup  sweet  milk,  1^  cups  flour, 

2  eggs,  1  cup  chopped  nut  meats. 
Butter,  size  of  walnut, 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  4  eggs, 

1  cup  butter,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  cold  water,  2  cups  hickory  nut, 

3  cups  flour,  or  mixed  nuts. 

— Miss  Martha  Miller  Ott. 


LOAF  CAKES.  273 


HOT  WATER  CAKE. 

J  cup  butter  (scant),  IJ  cups  sifted  flour, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 

■|  cup  hot  water,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Spread  with  chocolate  icing; 
cut  in  squares.  — Mrs.  Dr.  Evans. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  milk, 

J  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

2  eggs,  2  cups  flour. 
Divide  batter  into  two  parts  and  to  one  part  add 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  nutmeg, 

i  teaspoon  cloves,  2  tablespoons  molasses. 

Drop  alternate  spoonfuls  of  dark  and  light  batter  into  a 
buttered  pan  until  all  is  used.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

— Nora  O^Connell. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

LIGHT    PART. 

J  cup  white  sugar,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

3  whites  of  eggs,  powder, 

f  cup  butter.  Flour  to  make  medium  bat- 

f  cup  sweet  milk,  ter. 


274  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


DARK    PART. 

I  cup  brown  sugar,  J  cup  coffee, 

j  cup  syrup,  ^  cup  raisins, 

3  egg  yolks,  ^  teaspoon  cloves, 

1  cup  shortening,  1  teaspoon  soda. 

Drop  a  tablespoon  of  light,  then  of  dark  batter  into  a 
baking  tin  until  it  is  filled.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  Wm.  Lange. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 

1  egg,  1  teaspoon  soda  in 

i  cup  lard,  i  cup  boiling  water, 

h  cup  molasses,  2^  cups  flour, 

J  cup  sugar.  Flavor  to  taste. 

— Mrs.  H.  Mead. 

MOSS  CAKE.     (Birthday.) 

14  egg  yolks,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  cup  sugar,  ^  pound  almonds, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  6  ounces  citron, 

J  teaspoon  cloves,  3  whites  of  eggs. 

1  lemon  rind, 
Stir  yolks  and  sugar  fifteen  minutes ;  mix  the  cinnamon, 
cloves,  grated  lemon  rind,  and  baking  powder  with  the  ground 
almonds,  chop  the  citron  fine,  then  mix  all  the  ingredients 
adding  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  last.    Bake  one  hour. 

— ^Mrs.  John  Herberg. 


LOAF  CAKES.  275 


MOTHER^S  SOUR  CREAM  CAKE. 

1  Clip  sugar,  2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  soda  in  2^  cups  flour. 

1    cup  sour  cream, 

NOVELTY  CAKE. 

Bake  a  nice  white  cake  about  an  inch  thick ;  cover  with  a 
boiled  frosting  containing  half  a  cup  of  chopped  nuts.  When 
nearly  hard,  strew  half  a  cup  of  chopped  pineapple  over  frost- 
ing and  on  that  a  thick  layer  of  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE. 

H  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda  and 

1  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar  in 

J  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour, 

1  egg,  1  cup  raisins  or  currants. 
Bake  one  hour.  — ^Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE. 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  egg;  little  salt, 

i  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  milk,  Flour  to  mix  soft. 

Bake  in  patty  tins,  when  cool,  cut  each  in  two,  fill  with  fig 
filling  and  frost.  — Mrs.  Portz. 


276 


WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


ORANGE  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar  and  1^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

5  yolks  of  eggs  creamed  sifted  in 

very  smooth  with  2  cups  flour, 

1  orange  (rind  and  4  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to 

juice),  stiff  froth. 

J  cup  water, 
Mix  in  order  given,  bake  and  cover  with  orange  icing. 

—Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 


PORK  CAKE. 


1  pint  strong  boiling 

coffee  poured  over 
1  pound  fat  salt  pork 

(chopped  fine). 
1  tablespoon  soda., 

beaten  in 
1  tablespoon  New 

Orleans  molasses  until 

light, 
Bake  one  hour  in  moderate 


2  cups  brown  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  cloves, 
i  nutmeg  (grated), 

5  cents  worth  of  citron, 

6  cups  flour, 

3  pounds  seeded  raisins, 

2  cups  chopped  nuts. 


oven.    Makes  four  loaves. 
— Florence  Krieger. 


LOAF  CAKES. 


277 


PLAIN  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 

^  cup  butter,  1^  teaspoons  baking  powder^ 

i  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour. 

This  makes  a  nice  brown  cake  by  adding  two  ounces  of 
Baker's  bitter  chocolate,  dissolved  over  hot  water. 

— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 


POTATO  CAKE. 


2  cups  sugar, 
i  cup  butter, 
1  potato  (boiled  and 

grated), 
1  slate  sweet  chocolate 

(grated), 
5  eggs, 
i  pound  almonds 

(chopped). 
Bake  one  hour. 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  allspice, 
1  teaspoon  ginger, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
i  teaspoon  cloves, 
i  nutmeg, 
1  teaspoon  soda  in 

1  cup  sour  milk, 

2  cups  flour. 

— Mrb.  Chas.  Moser. 


POTATO   CAKAMEL   CAKE. 


1  cup  butter, 

2  cups  sugar, 
4  eggs, 

i  cup  sweet  milk, 
1  cup  mashed  potato, 
1  teaspoon  cloves. 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

1  cup  grated  chocolate, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
2  cups  flour, 

1  cup  walnuts,  chopped. 


278  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

Stir  butter,  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  together,  then  add 
milk,  hot  potato,  spices,  chocolate,  baking  powder,  flour, 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  nuts. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Schumacher. 

POUND  CAKE. 

1  pound  butter,  1  pound  flour, 

1  pound  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  mace, 

3  tablespoons  rose  1  nutmeg,  grated, 

water,  12  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  separately  and  add  the  whites  last. 

—J.  B.  Smiley. 

QUICK  CAKE. 

IJ  cups  flour,  IJ  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  sugar,  -J  cup  shortening, 

2  eggs,  Pinch  of  soda, 
I  teaspoon  salt.  Sweet  milk. 

Pour  the  melted  shortening  in  a  cup,  break  in  the  eggs, 
then  fill  the  cup  with  milk.  Stir  the  ingredients  all  together 
quickly,  adding  a  little  more  milk.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  J.  Foley. 


LOAF  CAKES.  279 


EAISIN  CAKE. 

f  cup  brown  sugar,  |  teaspoon  salt, 

i  cup  butter,  1^  cups  flour, 

1  egg,  -J  cup  raisin  juice, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  level  teaspoon  soda, , 

■J  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  cup  raisins. 

Cook  the  raisins  twenty  minutes,  drain  off  the  juice. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  egg,  sift  the  cin- 
namon, nutmeg  and  salt  with  the  flour  aud  add  next,  then 
add  the  raisin  juice  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved 
and  stir  in  the  raisins  last.  Mix  thoroughly,  turn  into  a 
greased  and  floured  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cheap 
and  good.  — Bessie  Bayley. 

RODON  KUCHEN. 

^  pound  butter,  J  lemon,  grated  rind, 

6  eggs,  6  drops  lemon  juice, 

i  cup  sugar,  1  cake  yeast  in 

1  pound  flour,  2  cups  lukewarm  milk, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  |  cup  raisins. 

Cream  the  butter  well;  then  add  one  egg,  a  little  sugar 
and  a  little  flour;  beat  thoroughly,  then  add  another  egg, 
little  sugar  and  flour,  and  so  on,  until  eggs,  sugar  and  flour 
are  all  used.  Add  the  remaining  ingredients  slowly,  in  the 
order  given,  beating  thoroughly  not  less  than  an  hour ;  let  rise 
till  light,  then  bake  slowly  in  a  tube  pan. 

— Mrs.  C.  Muellenbach,  Milwaukee. 


280  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

SAND  CAKE.    (German.) 
1  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

IJ  cups  sugar,  i  pound  potato  flour, 

-J  cup  milk.  Lemon  flavor. 

.    11  yolks  of  eggs. 
Stir  one  hour  and  bake  slowly.  — Mrs.  D.  T.  Keelcy. 

SOUR  APPLE  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  level  teaspoons  soda,  dis- 
i  cup  shortening,  solved  in 

i  teaspoon  salt,  3  tablespoons  water, 

i  cup  raisins   (cut),  3  tablespoons  molasses, 

2  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  each  of 

li  cups  unsweetened  cinnamon,  cloves,  all- 
apple  sauce,  spice  and  nutmeg. 

— Mrs.  Charles  Holden,  Montana. 

SPANISH  BUN. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar,       1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
J  cup  butter,  i  teaspoon  cloves, 

2  eggs,  i  cup  sour  milk, 

2  tablespoons  N.  0.  mo-      1  level  teaspoon  soda, 
lasses.  2  cups  flour. 

Sift  soda  in  the  flour  several  times;  stir  sugar,  butter 
and  beaten  yolks  together  well,  add  beaten  whites  last;  bake 
in  a  square  pan  and  frost  with  a  boiled  icing  flavored  with 
v^inilla-  and  containing  one  cup  chopped  raisins. 

— Mrs.  G.  E.  Knowlton. 


LOAF  CAKES.  281 


SPICE  CAKE. 

^  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

i  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda  in 

i  cup  molasses,  ^  cup  sour  milk, 

3  yolks  of  eggs,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  white  of  egg,  2  cups  flour. 

—Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
i  cup  butter,  IJ  cups  flour, 

2  6ggs,  1  cup  raisins,  chopped  fine, 
i  teaspoon  soda  in  Cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to 
i  cup  sour  milk,  taste. 

—Mrs.  B.  S.  Potter. 

PLAm  SPONGE  CAKE. 

U  cups  sugar,  1  cup   (not  quite  full) 

^^  eggs.  boiling  water, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

U  cups  sifted  flour,  J  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  sugar,  eggs  and  salt  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the 
flour  very  slowly,  beating  all  the  time,  next  add  the  water 
in  the  same  way,  then  the  vanilla;  add  the  baking  powder 
last,  stirring  only  just  enough  to  fold  it  in  well.  Bake  an 
hour  in  a  slow  oven.  —Mrs.  Fred  Stuebe. 


282  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

SPANISH  SPONGE  CAKE. 

2  cups  white  sugar,  |  teaspoon  cloves, 

I  cup  butter  (scant),  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour, 

4  eggs,  1  cup  chopped  dates, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts. 
Add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  last.     Makes  two 

long  narrow  loaves.    Good  cake  to  keep  some  little  time. 

— Mrs.  W.  N.  Hamilton. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
6  eggs,  beaten  separately,     2  cups  flour, 

i  cup  warm  water,  Add  whites  of  eggs  last. 

Bake  thin  and  break  in  pieces  to  serve.    This  makes  a 
nice  pudding  served  with  fruit  preserves. 

—Mrs.  W.  E.  Wolfrum. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour, 

5  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
5  tablespoons  hot  or  cold     Vanilla  flavor,  or  grated 

water,  rind  of  lemon. 

— Mrs.  A.  Husting. 


LOAF  CAKES.  283 


SPONGE  CAKE. 

12  eggs,  1  lemon, 

1  pound  granulated  f  pound  flour, 

sugar, 
Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together  for  half  an  hour,  then  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  rind  and  juice  of  lemon.  Add 
flour  last,  very  slowly,  cutting  it  in  with  a  knife.  This  cake 
requires  a  great  deal  of  beating.  If  preferred,  almonds  may 
be  used  instead  of  flour.  — Mrs.  C.  Muellenbaxjh. 


SPONGE  CAKE. 

3  eggs,  beaten  light,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour. 

1  tablespoon  cold  water, 

— H.  H.  Sauerhering. 


SPONGE  CAKE. 

6  eggs,  1  lemon  (rind), 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour. 

i  lemon  (juice). 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  flfteen  minutes ;  bake  forty- 
five  minutes  in  slow  oven.  — Mrs.  T.  Willert. 


284  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour. 

Beat  yolks  to  a  foam,  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  (not 
extract)  beat  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  flour  very  lightly  and 
fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  which  have  been  whipped  dry. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  — Mrs.  Louis  Kronitz. 

HOT  WATER  SPONGE  CAKE. 

4  yolks  of  eggs,  and  IJ  cups  flour, 

IJ  cups  sugar,  creamed,      2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
4  whites  of  eggs,  beaten,      4  tablespoons  boiling  water, 
Mix  in  order  given,  stirring  well  before  adding  boiling 
water.    Bake  in  tube  pan. — Mrs.  Charles  A.  Silberzahn. 

STOLLEN.    (Coffee  CaJ^e). 

For  three  stollen  take  two  cents  worth  of  yeast,  one  quart 
of  milk  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  sponge.  Let  rise,  then 
add 

i  pound  butter,  1  lemon,  rind  and  juice, 

i  pound  lard,  1  pound  raisins, 

2  or  more  eggs,  ^  pound  almonds, 
1  cup  sugar;  salt,  |  pound  citron. 

Chop  all  fruit  before  adding.    Let  rise  and  bake. 

— Mrs.  Herman  Gerlach. 


LOAF    CAKES  285 


CHRISTMAS   STOLLEN.     (German.) 

2  pounds  sugar,  J  pound  citron, 

2  pounds  butter,  8  eggs, 

2  pounds  seedless  raisins,     6  cents  worth  yeast, 
J  pound  almonds,  2  quarts  milk, 

i  pound  bitter  almonds,       ^  lemon  (juice  and  grated 
Flour  to  thicken,  rind). 

Set  sponge  with  the  yeast,  milk  and  flour.  When  it  rises 

add  all  ingredients  except  raisins,  mix  thoroughly,  then  add 

the  raisins,  let  rise  and  bake  in  loaves. 

— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Silberzahn. 


SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

11  whites  of  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

3  yolks,  beaten,  1  cup  flour, 

1^  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  yolks^ 
then  stir  in  carefully  the  sifted  granulated  sugar  and  the 
vanilla;  then  the  flour  that  has  been  sifted  with  a  teaspoon  of 
cream  of  tartar  five  times ;  add  this  a  little  at  a  time,  and  mix 
thoroughly.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

— Mrs.  G.  A.  Heidner. 


286  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

1  cup  flour  (scant),  7  eggs, 

li  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

Pinch  of  salt,  ^  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

Sift,  measure  and  set  aside  flour  and  sugar;  add  salt  to 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  whip  to  a  foam;  then  add  cream 
tartar  and  beat  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  add  sugar,  beat  thor- 
oughly, add  beaten  yolks,  vanilla  and  fold  in  the  flour  lightly. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

— Mrs.  V.  Wollner. 

SWEET  CREAM  CAKE. 

Break  two  eggs  into  a  cup,  then  fill  the  cup  with  sweet 
cream  and  mix  with  one  cup  sugar  and  one  and  three-fourths 
cups  flour  containing  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Beat  to- 
gether ten  minutes.      Makes  nice  loaf  or  layer  cake. 

— Mrs.  Simon. 

TEA  CAKE. 

1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  butter  and  lard, 

2  teaspoons  soda,  1  cup  cold  tea, 
2 J  cups  flour,  1  egg.  ' 

— Mrs.  J.  Fessenden. 


LOAF    CAKES 


287 


^  cup  sugar, 
4  cup  molasses, 
i  cup  butter, 
i  cup  cold  tea, 


TEA  CAKE. 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  small  teaspoon  soda. 
If  cups  flour, 

— Mrs.  L.  A.  Briese. 


WEDDING  CAKE. 
1  pound  brown  sugar,  2  lemons. 


1  pound  butter, 
1  pound  flour, 
12  eggs, 

1  cup  molasses, 

2  nutmegs, 

1  gill  rose  water. 


6  pounds  raisins, 
3  pounds  currants, 
2  pounds  citron, 
1  ounce  cinnamon, 
1  ounce  mace, 
J  ounce  cloves. 


Wash  the  currants,  seed  and  chop  the  raisins  fine,  cut  the 
citron  into  thin,  small  slices.  Put  only  a  quarter  of  the 
raisins  in  the  chopping  bowl  at  a  time.  Stir  fruit  carefully 
together,  cream  the  butter  and  add  all  the  spices  as 
soon  as  you  commence  putting  in  the  sugar.  Add  molasses, 
by  degrees,  with  the  sugar.  If  more  liquid  is  needed  to  make 
it  stir  easily,  add  a  portion  of  the  rose  water.  Beat  till  very 
light,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks,  the  juice  and  grated  rinds  of 
the  lemons,  what  is  left  of  the  rose  water,  a  little  more  than 


288  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


half  the  flour,  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  the  rest  of  the 
flour,  stirring  but  little.  Lastly  dust  the  fruit,  a  little  at  a 
time,  with  flour,  and  mix  in  thoroughly.  TWs  makes  one 
large  and  one  small  cake.  Line  the  pans  with  three  thick- 
nesses of  paper,  the  last  one  buttered  well.  Bake  four  hours  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Be  careful  not  to  let  it  bum.  Leave  the 
cakes  in  the  papers  until  ready  to  use.  This  cake  should  be 
made  at  least  a  month  before  using. 

—Mrs.  C.  H.  Miller. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

14  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  flavor 

i  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  4  whites  of  eggs. 

Bake  forty  minutes,  beginning  with  a  slow  oven  and  in- 
creasing the  heat.  This  is  a  standard  recipe;  may  be  baked 
in  loaf  or  layer  and  by  changing  flavorings  and  fillings  may 
be  made  into  a  variety  of  cakes. 

— Mrs.  H.  M.  Crump. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

I  cup  lard,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

1  cup  sugar,  powder, 

3  whites  of  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

■J  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour. 

Stir  lard,  sugar  and  unbeaten  whites  together  ten 
minutes.  — Mrs.  F.  J.  Haas. 


LOAF    CAKES 


289 


WHITE  CAKE. 
U  cups  powdered  sugar,      2  cups  flour, 
f  cup  butter,  1  cup  cornstarch, 

1  cup  milk,  5  whites  of  eggs, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  1  cup  chopped  nuts, 
baking  powder, 

— Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  sifted  flour, 

i  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  almond  flavor, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  6  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 

2  teaspoons  baking  stiff, 
powder, 

Put  in  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one 
hour.    When  cold  cover  with  icing.  —Mrs.  John  Conrad. 

YEAST  LOAF. 
Mix  one  and  one-half  cups  milk  and  a  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  nice  dough;  add  salt  and 
a  little  grated  lemon  peel.  Beat  one  cup  butter  and  one  cup 
sugar  to  a  cream,  add  six  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  thor- 
oughly; then  add  to  the  dough  and  beat  one-half  hour;  let 
rise  until  very  light;  bake  in  a  tube  pan. 

— Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 


290  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

BEOWN  STONE  FRONT. 

PART  I. 

J  cup  grated  chocolate,        |  cup  brown  sugar, 
I  cup  sweet  milk,  1  yolk  of  egg. 

PART   II. 

1  cup  brown  sugar  and        2  eggs,  beaten, 

J  cup  butter,  creamed,         1  even  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  sweet  milk  •      2  cups  flour. 

Boil  Part  I.  and,  while  hot,  beat  into  Part  II. ;  bake  as 
a  layer  or  in  a  square  pan. 

Frosting:  Boil  one  cup  granulated  sugar  and  one-half 
cup  sweet  milk  until  thick,  beat  to  a  cream  and  add  a  little 
melted  chocolate,  poured  in  while  hot.  Put  on  the  cake 
immediately.  — Mrs.  Fred  W.  Winkler. 

CARAMEL  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

7  eggs  (except  four  3  cups  flour, 

yolks), 
Filling :   Boil  one  pound  light  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup 
cream  and  butter  size  of  an  egg,  moderately  fast  for  twenty 
minutes,  and  when  cool  flavor  with  vanilla. 

—Mrs.  W.  B.  Wolfrum. 


LAYER  CAKES.  291 


CAEAMEL  CAKE. 

J  cup  butter,  1  cup  water, 

14  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour. 

2  beaten  yolks, 

Cream,  the  butter,  add  the  remaininig  ingredients 
gradually,  beat  five  minutes,  then  add 

1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

3  tablespoons  caramel,  2  whites  beaten  stiff. 
i  cup  flour. 

Bake  in  two  layers,  fill  and  cover  with  boiled  icing  made 
of  two  whites  of  egg  and  one  and  three-fourths  cups  sugar, 
stir  till  cool  then  add  two  teaspoons  caramel  and  one  of  va- 
nilla. To  make  the  caramel,  brown  one  cup  of  sugar  well  in 
the  frying  pan,  then  pour  one  half  cup  water  over  and  boil 
till  clear ;  bottle  for  use.  — Mrs.  H.  E.  Haertl. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

5  eggs,  1  plate  sweet  chocolate, 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,        1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
1  cup  flour 
Cream  the  yolks  and  sugar  ten  minutes,  then  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  the  flour  mixed  with  the  grated 
chocolate  and  baking  powder.    Bake  in  three  layers  in  a  very 
hot  oven.     Use  cream  filling.  — Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 


292  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  IJ  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  butter,  3^  cups  flour, 

5  yolks  of  eggs,  2  whites  of  eggs. 

1  cup  milk, 

Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  chocolate  frosting. 

—Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

J  cup  butter  (creamed),  ^  cup  sweet  milk, 

li  cups  sugar,  IJ  cups  flour,  containing 

4  yolks  of  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

2  ounces  chocolate,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

5  tablespoons  water,  4  stiffly  beaten  whites. 
Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  the  boiling  water,  mix  in  the 

order  given,  adding  yolks  and  sugar  to  butter  gradually,  and 
beating  thoroughly.     Put  together  with  chocolate  icing. 

— Mrs.  G.  A.  Heidner. 

CHOCOLATE  SUGAR  CAKE. 

PART  I. 

■J  cake  sweet  chocolate,        1  cup  sugar, 
J  cup  milk,  1  yolk  of  egg. 


LAYER   CAKES.  293 


PART  II. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs ;  beat  separate, 

1  small  tablespoon  butter,  3  large  teaspoons  baking 
J  cup  milk.  powder. 

2  cups  flour. 

Grate  the  chocolate  into  the  milk,  cook  to  a  paste  in 
double  boiler  then  add  sugar  and  unbeaten  yolk,  stir  well,  let 
cool  slightly  then  add  to  part  II.  Bake  in  four  layers,  put 
together  with  boiled  frosting  and  cover  with  chocolate  frost- 
ing. —Mrs.  Thomas  Newton. 

MES.  SWEETNAM^S  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

2  cups  medium  brown  1  egg, 

^iigav,  1  yolk  of  egg, 

^,  cup  butter,  U  teaspoons  vanilla, 

J  cake  Baker's  choco-  i  cup  sour  milk, 

late  dissolved  in  little  J  teaspoon  soda, 

hot  water.  2  scant  cups  flour. 

Spread  white  frosting,  flavored  with  vanilla,  between  the 
layers. 

CHEAP  CEEAM  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 

1  tablespoon  butter,  powder  in 

1  ^gg,  2  scant  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  Flavor  to  taste. 


294  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

Divide  into  three  parts  and  bake  in  shallow  tins.  Filling: 

1  cup  milk,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cornstarch. 

Let  the  milk  and  sugar  boil,  then  stir  in  the  eggs  and 
cornstarch.  When  cool,  flavor  and  spread  between  the  layers, 
using  the  whites  of  two  eggs  for  frosting. 

— Mrs.  H.  J.  Wagner. 

COCOA  CAKE. 

4  cup  butter,  6  level  tablespoons  cocoa, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

3  eggs,  2  cups  flour, 

f  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  last.  Bake  in 
two  layers  and  fill  with  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  Carrie  Rose. 


CONFECTIONER'S  CAKE.     (Fine.) 

1  large  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  milk, 

^  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour, 

3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Stir  all  together,  then  divide  the  batter  into  two  parts; 
to  one  part  add  one-half  cup  raisins  and  one-half  teaspoon 
each,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Bake  on  four  jelly  tins 
and  place  in  alternate  layers,  light  and  dark,  with  frosting 
between.  — Mrs.  Mary  Owens. 


LAYER  CAKES.  295 


CEBAM  NUT  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour, 

i  cup  butter  (scant),  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

i  cup  sweet  milk,  4  whites  of  eggs. 

i  cup  cornstarch, 

Filling: 

1  cup  sour  cream,  1  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  chopped  nuts,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  until  thick.  — Mrs.  Fred  Althaus. 

CREAM  ROSE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter,  ]0  whites  of  eggs, 

3  cups  powdered  sugar,        5  cups  flour   (scant), 

1  small  cup  cream,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  sweet  cream  and 
beat  until  the  mixture  is  like  whipped  cream ;  then  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  flour 
alternately.  Put  half  in  three  layer  tins,  color  the  remainder 
a  delicate  pink  with  fruit  coloring  and  bake  in  three  layers. 
Frosting  and  filling: 

IJ  cocoanuts,  1|  cups  powdered  sugar, 

4  whites  of  eggs,  2  teaspoons  rosewater. 
Pare  and  grate  the  cocoanuts  and  beat  the  whites  of  the 

eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  — Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 


296  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

CEEAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  |  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

2  tablespoons  cold  water,     J  cup  flour. 
2  eggs. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  split  and  fill  with  whipped  cream 
which  has  been  sweetened  to  taste.      — Mrs.  E.  C.  Pors. 

DEVIL'S   FOOD. 

PART  I. 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  J  cup  grated  chocolate. 

^  cup  milk. 
Dissolve  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  boil.    When  cool  add  to 

PART   II. 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  raisins, 
i  cup  butter,                         3  yolks  of  eggs, 

•|  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  sifted  in 

2  cups  flour,  the  flour. 

FILLING. 

1  egg  yolk.  Butter  size  of  walnut, 

1  tablespoon  flour,  ^  cup  boiling  water, 

i  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  nut  meats. 

Mix  yolk,  flour,  sugar,  and  butter  together,  then  turn 
into  the  boiling  water  and  cook;  while  hot  add  hickory  nut 
or  walnut  meats  and  when  cool  put  between  the  layers. 

—Mrs.  W.  E.  Bennett. 


LAYER  CAKES,  297 


DEVIL'S  FOOD. 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar,     1  teaspoon  soda, 
i  cup  butter,  1  square  chocolate,  grated, 

2  eggs,  2  heaping  cups  flour. 

J  cup  sour  milk. 
Dissolve  chocolate  and  soda  in  boiling  water,  bake  in  two 
layers  and  fill  with  boiled  frosting. 

— Hattie  Whiffin. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

i  cup  butter,  2  squares  cliocolate, 

2  eggs,  2  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  sour 
milk,  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  melted  chocolate, 
flour,  vanilla  and  the  beaten  whites  last.  Cover  and  fill  with 
the  following: 

2  tablespoons  melted  J  cup  milk, 

butter,  1  cup  powdered  sugar, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  cocoa. 

Boil  until  thick  enough  to  spread. 

,  — Dorothy  B.  French. 

20  •  •' 


298  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

FIG  CAKE. 

1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  boiling  water, 

i  pound  figs,  1  teaspoon  soda. 

Chop  the  raisins  and  figs  fine,  stir  in  the  boiling  water 

and  soda  and  add  to  the  cake  batter  last. 

I'cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour, 

I  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  egg,  i  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

1  yolk. 
Fill  and  cover  with  boiled  icing.     Nice  also  when  made 

in  loaf.  — Nellie  C. 

FLAKE  CAKE. 

^  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

i  cup  brown  sugar,  i  cup  N.  0.  Molasses, 

"i  cup  sour  milk,  3  egg  yolks, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  f  cup  flour, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Fill  with  fig  filling.  —Nellie  M.  Foote. 

GERMAN  TART  CAKE. 

4  pound  butter,  1  even  teaspoon  baking 

i  pound  sugar,  powder  in 

2  eggs,  well  beaten,  f  pound  flour. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  mix  like  cookies,  roll  out 
into  two  layers  and  bake.  Use  equal  parts  of  jelly  and  cream 
for  filling,  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  on  top. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


LAYER  CAKES.  299 


HICKORY  NUT  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,        1^  cups  flour, 
J  cup  milk,  4  whites  of  eggs. 

I  cup  nuts,  chopped  fine, 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  other  ingredients  in 
the  order  given  and  bake.    Filling  and  frosting : 

li  cups  powdered  sugar,      j  cup  hickory  nuts  (chopped 
i  cup  water,  fine). 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  creams  when  a  little  is 
stirred  on  a  saucer.  Beat  and  when  partly  cool  add  the  nuts, 
then  beat  until  cool  enough  to  spread  between  the  layers. 

— Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE. 

^  cup  butter  (scant),  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

li  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour, 

3  yolks  of  eggs,  3  whites  of  eggs,  beaten, 

■J  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Sift  the  sugar  twice,  cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  sift  the 

baking  powder  and  flour  together,  then  mix  in  the  order 

given.    Filling : 

i  cup  sour  cream,  1  white  of  egg, 

i  cup  sugar,  1  cup  nut  meats. 

Beat  together,  adding  the  finely  chopped  nuts  last  and 

spread  between  the  layers.  — Minnie  Wilmot. 


300  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

HOLLAND  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  -|  cup  sour  milk, 

1  cup  molasses,  J  cup  coffee, 

4  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda  in 

2  beaten  eggs,  2^  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  each,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg. 
Bake  in  three  layers.     Fill  with  boiled  icing  to  which 
two  beaten  whites  have  been  added.     If  preferred  add  fruit 
and  bake  in  a  loaf.  — Mrs.  Mark  Hopkins. 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE. 
Make  a  good  sponge  cake,  bake  half  an  inch  thick  in 
jelly  pans  and  let  get  perfectly  oold.  Beat  a  pint  of  thick 
sweet  cream  until  it  looks  like  ice  cream,  make  very  sweet, 
and  flavor  with  vanilla;  blanch  and  chop  a  pound  of  almonds, 
stir  into  the  cream  and  spread  very  thick  between  the  layers. 
This  is  the  queen  of  all  cakes. — Mrs.  Jennie  Sackerson. 

LEMON  CAKE. 
J  cup  butter  and  J  cup  milk, 

1  cup  sugar,  creamed,         2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

3  eggs  and  2J  cups  flour. 

2  yolks, 
Filling: 

i  cup  water,  1  teaspoon  butter, 

2  lemons  (juice  and  1  cup  sugar,  mixed  with 

rind),  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Cook  till  thick  enough  to  spread. 

— Mrs.  Ernst  Franckenberg. 


LAYER  CAKES.  30 1 


MAESHMALLOW  CAKE. 

18  whites  of  eggs,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar, 

2i  cups  powdered  sugar,     1^  cups  flour  (sifted  three 

1  teaspoon  vanilla,  times). 

Beat  the  eggs  very  lightly,  cut  the  sugar  and  flour  in 
with  a  broad  knife,  beat,  add  the  vanilla  and  bake  in  three 
deep  layer  pans,  ungreased.    Filling: 

2  cups  sugar,  1  pound  marshmallows, 
1  cup  water,  2  whites  of  eggs. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  feathers,  add  the  French 
marshmallows  (broken  into  bits),  and  pour  gradually  over 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  —Elizabeth  Dunham. 


MAESHMALLOW  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

i  cup  butter,  IJ  cups  Swansdown  flour, 

i  cup  milk,  4  whites  of  eggs. 

Sift  the  baking  powder  in  the  flour  and  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  last.  Bake  in  two  layers.  Fill  and  cover  with 
a  boiled  icing  to  which  has  been  added  marshmallows  made 
soft  in  a  slow  oven.  Very  nice,  also,  filled  with  a  boiled  icing 
to  which  one  pound  chopped  dates  have  been  added,  the  date 
filling  spread  on  the  cake  first  and  the  marshmallow  filling 
over  that.  —Mrs.  H.  Schwab. 


302  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

MOLASSES  LAYER  CAKE. 

1  cup  molasses,  4  teaspoon  cloves, 

2  tablespoons  shortening,     1  teaspoon  soda  in 
2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  hot  water, 

1   teaspoon  vinegar,  2J  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
Fill  with  boiled  icing,  with  one  teaspoon  vinegar  added. 

— Mrs.  P.  Griesbach. 

NOUGAT  CAKE. 
1  cup  powdered  sugar,        IJ  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
■  ^  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour, 

J  cup  milk,  4  whites  of  eggs ;  vanilla. 

Bake  in  two  layers.    Filling: 
1  pound  chopped  J  cup  sour  cream, 

almonds.  Sugar  to  taste. 

1  lemon  (juice). 
Mix  thoroughly  and  cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken.    Let 
stand  an  hour  before  using.  — Mrs.  Alfred  H.  Weil. 

OLD-FASHIONED  CREAM  CAKE. 
1  egg,  1  cup  sugar;  little  salt, 

1  yolk  of  egg,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

Cream  to  fill  the  cup  ^  teaspoon  soda, 

containing  the  eggs,         IJ  cups  flour. 
Mix  the  white  of  one  egg  with  three  tablespoons  of  sugar 
for  filling  between  the  two  layers. 

— Mrs.  Catherine  Vestey. 


LAYER 

CAKES                                     303 

PRINCE  OF  WALES  CAKE. 

1  cnp  brown  sugar, 
i  cup  butter. 

i  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
2  tablespoons  Karo 

2  eggs, 

•J  cup  raisins  (chopped, 

boiled  and  cooled), 
i  teaspoon  allspice, 
i  teaspoon  cloves. 

syrup, 
1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  cup  buttermilk  or 

sour  milk, 
1  cup  flour. 

Bake  in  layers,  fill  with  custard  filling  and  cover  with 
white  frosting.  — Katherine  E.  Foote. 


RAILROAD  CAKE. 


1  cup  sugar, 

3  tablespoons  melted 
butter, 

2  eggs, 


IJ  teaspoons  baking  powder 
IJ  cups  flour, 
^  cup  sweet  milk. 
Flavor  to  taste. 


Mix,  stir  five  minutes,  bake  in  loaf  or  layers. 

—Mrs.  C.  H.  Miller. 


RAISIN  CAKE. 


1  cup  sugar, 
4  cup  butter, 

2  eggs, 

i  cup  sour  milk, 

I  teaspoon  soda, 

Bake  in  two  layers. 


IJ  cups  flour, 
^  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
1  cup  chopped  raisins, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Schneiss. 


304  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

KIBBON  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk, 

2  cups  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
4  eggs  (beaten  separate),     3 J  cups  flour. 

Divide  the  batter  into  three  parts;  to  one  part  add 
J  cup  raisins  (chopped),     1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  cup  currants,  3  teaspoons  molasses. 

^  pound  sliced  citron. 
Dredge  the  fruit  with  flour.    Put  the  dark  layer  between 
the  light  layers,  fill  with  currant  jelly,  and  frost  with  plain 
boiled  frosting.  —Miss  Martha  Miller  Ott. 


SPICE  CAKE. 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

J  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2  yolks,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

^  cup  sour  milk,  2  cups  flour. 

Beat  the  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  together  until  smooth, 
then  add  the  remaining  ingredients,  bake  in  three  layers  and 
put  together  with  white  frosting.  — Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 


LAYER    CAKES  305 


THANKSGIVING  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
f  cup  butter,  3  cups  flour. 

3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 

Divide  the  batter  and  add  to  one  part — 
1  tablespoon  molasses,         ^  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  cup  raisins  (chopped),     J  teaspoon  allspice, 
i  pound  citron  Little  nutmeg, 

(chopped),  1  tablespoon  flour, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  stirred  in  fruit. 

Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  currant  jelly,  alter- 
nating the  light  and  dark  layers.  Cover  with  white  frosting. 
Very  nice.  —Elizabeth  Dunham. 


TUTTI  FRUTTI  CAKE. 

2  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

li  cups  sugar,  2^  cups  flour, 

1  cup  water,  4  whites  of  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  beat  well,  add  water  and 
flour,  beat  thoroughly  five  minutes,  add  baking  powder,  stir 
in  carefully  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Filling :  Chop  fine  ten  cents'  worth  each  of  candied  pine- 
apples, cherries,  green  gages,  walnuts  and  almonds.  Make  a 
boiled  icing,  and  when  cool  add  the  fruit  and  place  between 
the  layers. 


306  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

WALNUT  CAKE. 

1  pound  walnuts  (leave  |  cup  crackers  (rolled  fine), 

out  sixteen  halves  for  8  eggs, 

the  top),  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Cream  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar,  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  crackers  mixed  with  the  finely 
chopped  nuts  and  baking  powder.  Bake  in  three  layers  in  a 
slow  oven.    Filling : 

2  cups  milk,  .  2  yolks  of  eggs. 
Cornstarch  to  thicken,        ^  cup  sugar,  vanilla. 

Stir  powdered  sugar  with  a  little  water,  spread  on  the 
top  and  put  on  the  walnut  halves. 

— Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

2  cups  sugar,  Flavoring, 

1  cup  water,  5  whites  of  eggs. 

2 J  cups  flour, 
Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together,  cream  the 
butter  and  sugar,  add  the  water  and  flour  alternately,  a  little 
at  a  time,  then  add  the  flavoring,  and  whites  of  the  eggs  which 


LAYER    CAKES  307 


have  been  beaten  very  light.    Bake  in  two  layers  and  fill  with 
the  following  cream  filling. 

J  pint  sweet  cream,  1  teaspoon  cornstarch, 

3  egg  yolks,  1  pound  almonds,  chopped 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  fine. 

Boil  until   thick,   stirring  continually,   spread  between 
layers,  frost  the  top,  then  put  on  almonds  split  in  two. 

—Mrs.  0.  B.  Coombe. 

ALMOND  FILLING. 

i  pound  almonds,  ^  cup  thick  sour  cream, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  rose  water. 

Chop  the  almonds  fine.  —Mrs.  C.  R.  Schleifer. 

APPLE  FILLING. 

1  white  of  egg,  1  large  sour  apple. 
J  cup  powdered  sugar, 

Beat  the  egg  stiff,  add  the  sugar  and  stir  the  grated  apple 
in  slowly.  —Rose  Kuelthau. 

APPLE  LEMON  FILLING. 

2  sour  apples,  grated,         1  cup  sugar. 
1  lemon,  juice  and  rind, 

Cook  till  like  jelly,  — Lena  Brown. 


308  WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

BANANA  FILLING. 

Peel  and  mash  six  ripe  bananas  to  a  pulp,  sweeten,  flavor 
with  lemon  and  whip  smooth. 

BANANA  FILLING. 

Stir  two  bananas,  mashed  fine,  into  a  pint  of  whipped 
cream  and  flavor  with  orange  juice. 

BITTER-SWEET  FEOSTING. 

1  cup  confectioner's  ^  cup  granuhited  sugar, 

sugar,  1  cup  cream. 

Boil  until  thick,  then  beat  and  flavor  with  vanilla ;  spread 
on  cake ;  then  melt  two  squares  of  bitter  chocolate  and  spread 
over  the  top.  — Mrs.  E.  Weininger. 

BOILED  ICING. 
1  cup  granulated  sugar,       1  white  of  egg. 
4  tablespoons  water, 
Boil  sugar  and  water  without  stirring  until  it  threads, 
then  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  the  beaten  white  of  the  egg 
in  a  fine  stream,  beating  constantly  until  cool  enough  to 
spread.     This  is  a  foundation  for  many  frostings,  and  when 
made  right  is  very  fine. 


FILLINGS  AND  PROSTINGS.  309 

CARAMEL  FILLING.    (Fine.) 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  egg, 

1  cup  white  sugar,  2  teaspoons  melted  butter, 

1  teaspoon  vanilla,  ^  cup  sweet  cream. 

Beat  all  together  until  smooth,  cook  until  thick  enough 
to  spread ;  let  cool  before  putting  on  the  cake. 

— Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

Make  a  boiled  icing  and  while  hot  add  grated  chocolate 
and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla;  beat  until  cool  enough  to 
spread. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

i  cup  milk,  i  cup  chocolate. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Boil  the  milk,  add  the  sugar  and  melted  chocolate;  cook 
until  thick  enough  to  spread.  Mrs.  M.  R.  Ross. 

CHOCOLATL  FROSTING. 

i  cup  sweet  chocolate,  i  cup  butter, 

2  scant  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  hickory  nuts. 
1  scant  cup  milk, 

Chop  tlie  nut  meats  fine,  stir  together,  boil  till  it  will 
make  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  remove  from 
fire  and  stir  until  cool  enough  to  spread. 

— Mrs.  A.  A.  Blandin. 


310  WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE  FEOSTING. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,        3  tablespoons  chocolate, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  3  tablespoons  hot  water. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 

■J  cup  milk,  1  white  of  egg, 

1  cup  sugar,  J  cup  chocolate. 

Boil  the  milk  and  sugar,  add  the  chocolate  stirred  into 
the  white  of  the  egg,  and  beat  until  cold. — Mrs.  Smith. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING.     . 

1  cake  sweet  chocolate,        4  whites  of  eggs,  beaten. 
J  cup  powdered  sugar, 

Grate  the  chocolate,  stir  all  together,  spread  on  cake  and 
put  in  the  oven  five  minutes.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 

Stir  one  egg,  just  enough  to  mix  white  and  yolk,  add 
sifted  powdered  sugar,  a  little  at  a  time,  until  quite  stiff;  to 
this  add,  gradually,  about  three  tablespoons  melted  chocolate. 
If  too  thick  to  spread  on  cake,  thin  with  a  little  water. 
Spread  on  smooth  with  a  knife  dipped  in  cold  water. 

—Mrs.  F.  A.  Whalen,  Utah. 


FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS.  3ii 


COCOANUT  FILLING. 

i  pound  cocoanut,  1  white  of  egg, 

1  cup  cream,  Little  corastarch. 

Sugar  to  taste, 
Stir  cocoanut,  cream  and  sugar  together,  let  stand  on 
the  back  of  the  stove  to  simmer  until  soft,  then  stir  in  the 
beaten  white  of  the  egg  and  a  little  cornstarch. 

— Mrs.  Portz. 

COCOANUT  FRUIT  FILLING. 

J  cup  cocoanut,  ^  cup  chopped  raisins, 

i  cup  almonds,  ground,        1  white  of  egg,  beaten. 

COFFEE  CAKE  DRESSING. 
Cook  one-half  pound  prunes  and  one-half  pound  apples 
(dried  or  green)    until  tender,  press  through  a  sieve,  mix 
thoroughly,  sweeten  to  taste,  spread  on  coSee  cake  and  bake. 

— Margaret  Ruhl. 

COOKED  ICING. 

9  tablespoons  sugar,  1  white  of  egg, 

1  teaspoon  cornstarch,  3  tablespoons  cold  water. 

Stir  the  heaping  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  cornstarch  to- 
gether, add  the  water,  stir  well,  boil  two  minutes,  then,  while 
hot,  pour  over  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  the  egg  and  beat 
until  perfectly  smooth  and  white. 

— Mrs.  Ralph  H.  Norris. 


312  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

CREAM  FILLING. 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  i  cup  butter, 

1  beaten  egg,  1  tablespoon  com  starch, 
■J  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Stir  the  egg,  sugar,  butter  and  cornstarch  together,  turn 
into  the  boiling  milk  and  boil  till  thick;  when  cool  add  the 
extract.  — Mrs.  A.  A.  Blandin. 

CREAM  FILLING. 

2  eggs.  Butter,  size  of  half  egg, 
J  cup  sugar,  1  pint  milk. 

i  cup  flour. 

Stir  eggs,  sugar,  flour  and  butter  together,  add  to  boiling 
milk,  cook  till  it  thickens,  then  cool,  flavor  and  spread. 

—Mrs.  H.  B.  Hitz. 

CREAM  FROSTING. 

Into  two  tablespoons  of  cream  stir  sifted  confectioners' 
sugar,  a  little  at  a  time,  keeping  it  very  smooth.  Keep  adding 
cream  and  sugar  until  there  is  enough  to  spread  thickly  over 
the  cake,  making  it  just  thick  enough  to  spread.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  It  will  cut  nicely  without  crumbling,  when  cold,  and 
keeps  well.  — Sara  Barney. 


FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS.  313 


CUSTARD  FILLING. 

1  quart  milk,  4  tablespoons  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch,     J  teaspoon  salt, 
2  beaten  eggs.  Little  butter. 

Mix  the  cornstarch  smooth  with  a  little  of  the  milk, 
flavor,  heat  the  remainder  of  the  milk  to  near  boiling,  add 
gradually  a  mixture  made  of  the  cornstarch,  eggs,  sugar,  salt 
and  butter,  then  boil  two  minutes,  stirring  briskly. 

— Mrs.  H.  Gerlach. 


DELICIOUS  CAKE  FILLING. 

1  pound  seeded  raisins,       1  pound  blanched  almonds. 
J  pound  figs, 
Chop  the  ingredients  together  very  fine,  stir  into  boiled 
icing  and  spread  thickly  between  two  layers  of  cake,  baked 
in  a  long  or  square  pan.  — Mrs.  W.  P.  Rix. 


FILLING. 

Make  a  boiled  icing  and  add: 
i  cup  raisins,  chopped,       1  tablespoon  cocoanut, 
J  cup  walnuts,  chopped,      J  teaspoon  vanilla. 

— Mrs.  Charles  A.  Silberzahn. 


314  WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

FIG  FILLING. 

Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  with  one  cup  powdered  sugar. 
Spread  a  thin  coat  of  icing  on  each  layer,  then  a  layer  of 
split  figs,  then  more  icing,  another  cake  layer,  etc.,  finishing 
by  icing  the  top.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 


FIG  FILLING. 

J  pound  figs,  I  cup  cream. 

I  cup  sugar, 
Cook  slowly  till  thick.  — Margaret  Ruhl. 


FIG  FILLING. 

^  pound  figs,  1  cup  sweet  cream, 

^  cup  sugar,  Little  salt, 

1  cup  hickory  nuts,  Pinch  of  cornstarch. 

Cut  the  figs  fine,  soak  them  in  cold  water  until  soft  or 
boil  them  until  tender,  then  mash  fine,  add  the  sugar,  nuts, 
salt  and  cream  and  boil  ahout  five  minutes;  while  boiling  add 
a  pinch  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  water,  or  a  tablespoon  of 
lemon  filling.  —Mrs.  Portz. 


FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS.  315 

FIG  FILLING. 

i  cup  sugar,  ^  pound  figs,  chopped, 

J  lemon  (juice),  ^  cup  boiling  water. 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  and  smooth  enough  to 
spread. 

FRUIT  FILLING   (Uncooked). 

li  cups  powdered  5  cents'  worth  rolled 

sugar,  walnuts, 

4  cup  chopped  raisins,         Milk  to  moisten. 

—Mrs.  W.  Wall. 

HICKORY  NUT  FILLING. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  hickory  nuts,  chopped 

1  cup  sour  cream,  fine. 
Boil  until  thick. 

ICE  CREAM  FILLING. 

4  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

2  cups  water,  1  teaspoon  citric  acid. 
2  whites  of  eggs. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  to  a  syrup  very  slowly,  pour 
into  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  beat  until  cold, 
then  add  the  vanilla,  and  the  citric  acid  dissolved  in  water. 

—Mrs.  D.  T.  Keeley. 


316  WEST   BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

ICING.    (Fine.) 

IJ  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

J  cup  milk,  2  ounces  chocolate. 

Boil  the  granulated  sugar  and  milk  four  or  five  minutes, 
stir  till  thick,  add  the  vanilla,  spread  on  the  cake  and  when 
cold,  cover  with  the  melted  chocolate. 

—Mrs.  H.  B.  Hitz. 

LEMON  FILLING. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  beaten  egg, 

1  lemon,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch. 

Put  the  heaping  tablespoon  cornstarch  in  a  cup  and  dis- 
solve in  a  little  cold  water  then  fill  the  cup  with  boiling  water. 
Stir  the  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon  and  egg 
together,  add  to  the  cup  of  cornstarch  and  boil  up  once. 

— Mrs.  C.  E.  Mermuys. 

LEMON  FILLING. 

1  cup  sugar,  •  IJ  tablespoons  flour, 

1  yolk  of  egg,  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 
Stir  together  and  let  come  to  a  boil.      — Mrs.  Portz. 

MAPLE  FILLING. 

2  cups  maple  sugar,  3  tablespoons  butter, 
f    cup  sweet  milk, 

Boil  together,  then  beat  five  or  ten  minutes. 


FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS.  317 

NUT  FILLING. 

1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  cornstarch, 

3  yolks  of  eggs,*  1  cup  nut  meats. 

1  tablespoon  sugar, 

Mix  the  eggs,  sugar,  cornstarch  and  nuts,  stir  into  the 
boiling  milk,  cook  until  thick. 

— Mrs.  Eafferty. 

MARSHMALLOW  FILLING. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  whites  of  eggs, 
J  cup  water,  16  marshmallows. 

Make  a  boiled  icing  with  the  granulated  sugar,  water 
and  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  beat  well  and  add  the 
marshmallows,  which  have  been  baked  in  a  slow  oven  until 
soft  and  puffy,  but  not  brown;  beat  until  smooth.  When 
cool,  place  between  layers.  — Hilda  Wolfrum. 

MARSHMALLOW   FILLING. 

1  ounce  gum  arabic,  2  whites  of  eggs, 

4  tablespoons  water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

1  cup  granulated  sugar,  J  pound  macaroons. 
Soak  the  gum  arabic  in  the  cold  water,  dissolve  over  a 
fire,  strain,  add  the  sugar  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  one-half 
hour  or  until  thick  as  honey.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
stiff,  add  the  vanilla,  and  marshmallows  softened  in  the  oven 
until  they  mix  without  coloring;  add  to  the  mixture  in  the 
double  boiler  and  beat  until  thick  and  spongy.  When  cold 
put  betv\een  layers  of  cake. 


318  WEST   BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

OEANGE  FILLING. 

IJ  cups  sugar,  2  whites  of  eggs, 

J  cup  water,  1  orange. 

Boil  the  sugar  with  the  water  until  it  will  form  a  soft 
ball  in  cold  water,  then  pour  slowly  on  the  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beating  briskly  all  the  time,  add  the  grated  rind  and 
strained  juice  of  the  orange  and  continue  beating  until  the 
mixture  is  stiff  and  smooth  enough  to  spread. 


ORANGE  ICING. 

1  white  of  egg,  12  tablespoons  powdered 

1  orange  (rind  and  sugar, 

juice), 
Beat  together  without  cooking.  —Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 


PRINCE  BICKLBR.    (Fine.) 

1  cup  shelled  peanuts,         1  cup  whipped  cream, 
1  cup  sugar.  Vanilla  flavor. 

Spread  the  peanuts  on.  a  platter;  put  the  sugar  in  a 
spider  over  the  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  dissolved,  then 
turn  it  over  the  peanuts  and  when  the  mixture  is  cold  break 
it  into  small  pieces,  put  through  the  almond  grinder  and  mix 
with  the  cream  flavored  with  vanilla. 

— H.  H.  Sauerhering. 


FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS.  319 

RAISIN   FILLING. 
1  cup  sugar,  |  cup  chopped  raisins, 

5  tablespoons  hot  water,      ^  cup  nuts. 
Let  the  sugar  and  water  come  to  a  boil,  then  pour  it  over 
the  raisins  and  nuts  and  when  cool  spread  between  layers. 

— Mrs.  Fred  Althaus. 

SOUR  CREAM  FILLING. 

1  cup  sour  cream,  ^  teaspoon  cornstarch, 

2  eggs,  2  squares  Baker's  chocolate, 

3  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts. 
Stir  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  cream  and  com  starch, 

cook  till   thick,   add   chocolate   which  has   been  grated   and 
melted  over  water,  remove  from  fire  and  add  walnuts. 

— Mrs.  Charles  Fechter,  Manitowoc. 

SOUR  CREAM  FILLING. 

1  cup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  sugar. 
Boil  cream  and  sugar  about  an  hour,  cool,  then  add 
vanilla.  — Mrs.  Wm.  Hoyer. 

SWEET  CREAM  FILLING. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  bar  chocolate, 

J  cup  cream, 
Boil  together  and  beat  until  cool  enough  to  spread. 

— Mrs.  Simon. 


WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


WHIPPED  CREAM  FILLING. 

One  cup  thick  sweet  cream  (ice  cold)  whipped  until 
stiff,  and  flavored.  Beaten  white  of  one  egg  folded  into 
whipped  cream  makes  a  nice  addition. 


WHITE  FROSTING. 

Add  confectioners^  sugar  to  the  unbeaten  white  of  one 
egg  until  thick  enough  to  spread.    Flavor  as  desired. 

WHITE  FROSTING. 

4  tablespoons  milk,  1  cup  sugar, 

4  tablespoons  cream, 
Boil  until  it  threads  then  beat  until  cool  enough  to 
spread.  — Mrs.  R.  N.  Seward. 

ALMOND  STICKS. 

8  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

4  cups  sugar,  Butter,  size  of  egg, 

J  pound  almonds,  Pinch  of  salt, 

3  teaspoons  ground  anise  Flour  to  mix  stiff. 
i  pound  citron, 


MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  321 

Blanch  the  almcmds,  then  chop  the  citron  and  almonds 
together  fine;  mix  all  the  ingredients  except  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  thoroughly,  then  add  the  beaten  whites,  and  work  in  as 
much  flour  as  possible;  mould  into  two  loaves,  each  about 
fourteen  inches  long,  four  inches  wide  and  two  inches  deep, 
cover  with  a  cloth  and  let  stand  until  morning,  then  slice  thin, 
put  in  tin,  not   too  close  together  and  bake. 

— Mrs.  C.  E.  Mermuys. 

BERLINEE  PFANNKUCHEN.    (Eaised  Doughnuts.) 

Make  a  batter  of  two  cents^  worth  of  yeast,  one  cup  of 
water,  and  flour;  let  rise.  Rub  together  half  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs;  add  this 
with  one  quart  of  warm  milk  and  one  tablespoon  of  lemon 
extract,  to  the  raised  batter,  also  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  well 
beaten,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  like  coffee  cake. 
Beat  well  together  with  the  hand  for  fifteen  minutes ;  let  rise. 
The  balls  are  formed  by  taking  a  tablespoon  of  the  light,  soft 
dough  and  dropping  it  on  a  well-floured  board;  flour  the  top 
well,  pat  out  a  little  to  flatten  slightly,  drop  half  a  teaspoon 
of  jelly  on  it,  gather  the  dough  around  the  jelly  to  form  a  ball 
and  turn  upside  down  on  a  well-floured  board ;  let  rise  for 
half  an  hour  in  a  warm  place,  then  drop  in  smoking  lard  and 
fry  like  doughnuts.  It  may  need  practice  to  make  these 
satisfactory,  but  they  are  delicious  when  well  made. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Walile. 


322  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

BLITZ   KUCHEN. 

1  pound  sugar,  8  eggs, 

J  pound  butter,  1  pound  flour. 

Stir  sugar,  butter  and  yolks  together  well  then  add  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  and  flour.  Bake  in  a  long  tin  and  cover 
with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  chopped  almonds.  Cut  and  serve 
while  warm.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

BLITZ  KUCHEN. 

i  cup  sugar,  4  tablespoons  milk, 

i  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  baking  po^\■de^, 

4  egg  yolks,  1  cup  flour. 

Sift  baking  powder  and  flour  together,  bake  quite  bi'own ; 
cut  while  warm,  then  frost  with  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten 
with  one  cup  of  sugar;  sprinkle  rolled  walnuts  over. 

— Mrs.  H.  Schwab. 

CHEESE  FINGERS. 

1  tablespoon  butter,  J  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  cup  flour,  3  to  i  cup  of  water, 

i  cup  grated  cheese.  Little  cayenne  pepper. 

1  saltspoon  salt. 
Chop  the  butter  into  the  flour  and  when  fine  as  meal  stir 
in  the  other  ingredients  using  water  enough  to  mix  to  the 
consistency  of  biscuit ;  roll  thin,  cut  in  strips  and  bake  a  light 
brown  in  a  moderate  oven  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Nice 
to  serve  warm  for  luncheon  or  with  salad.  — Mrs.  Paul  Rix. 


MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  323 


CHEESE  STRAWS. 

1  cup  flour,  Pinch  of  cayenne  pepper, 

1  .cup  grated  cheese,  Butter,  size  of  an  egg, 
i  teaspoon  salt, 

Add  enough  water  to  make  a  dough,  roll  thin,  cut  in 
narrow  strips  and  bake  from  five  to  ten  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven.    Usually  served  with  lettuce  or  celery. 

—Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 

CHOCOLATE  JUMBLES. 

f  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
4  eggs.                                 Little  salt  in 

2  cups  grated  chocolate,       3  cups  flour. 

—Mrs.  A.  M.  Wagner. 

CINNAMON  DEOPS. 

1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  boiling  water, 

1  cup  lard,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

2  cups  N.  0.  molasfses,  7  cups  flour. 

3  eggs, 

Beat  in  the  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon 
into  one  half  cup  sugar  mixed  with  one  tablespoon  ground 
cinnamon  and  when  covered  with  the  mixture. put  in  a  pan 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  — Mrs.  T.  F.  Volk. 


324  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CINNAMON  STARS. 

1  pound  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 

8  whites  of  eggs,  1  pound  almonds. 

Stir  the  sugar,  eggs,  and  cinnamon  together  one  hour, 
then  put  six  tahlespoonfuls  in  a  separate  dish  for  frosting; 
to  the  remainder  add  the  grated,  unblanched  almonds,  mix 
well,  roll  out  upon  a  moulding  board  strewn  with  flour  and 
sugar,  form  with  a  star,  frost  and  bake  on  buttered  tins. 

— Mrs.  Andrew  Pick. 

COCOANUT  CAKES. 

Stir  the  grated  meat  of  two  cocoanuts,  their  weight  in 
loaf  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  and  whites  of  two  eggs  together, 
shape  into  balls  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

f  cup  butter  in  1|  cups  flour, 

J  pint  boiling  water,  5  eggs, 

Stir  the  floair  in  the  boiling  water ;  turn  into  a  dish,  add 
yolks  without  beating,  and  whites  beaten  dry,  at  the  same 
time.  Stir  well,  drop  on  buttered  tins,  bake  half  an  hour  in 
a  quick  oven.    Fill  with 

2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar, 

f  cup  flour,  1  pint  milk. 

Beat  the  eggs,  flour  and  sugar  together  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  milk.    When  partially  cool,  flavor  with  lemon. 

— Mrs.  A.  Husting. 


MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  326 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

1  large  teacup  hot  water,     1  teacup  flour, 
i  teacup  butter,  4  eggs,  beaten. 

Stir  the  flour  into  the  boiling  water  and  butter.  Set 
aside  to  cool  and^  when  cold,  stir  in  the  unbeaten  eggs,  one  at 
a  time.  Drop  in  muflin  tins  and  bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven. 
When  baked,  fill  with  beaten  cream,  sweetened  to  taste  and 
flavored  with  vanilla.  — Mrs.  Henry  Krieger. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

1  cup  boiling  water,  3  eggs,  beaten, 

i  cup  butter.  Small  pinch  of  soda. 

1  cup  pastry  flour. 
Pour  the  water  over  the  butter;  as  soon  as  it  boils  and 
the  butter  is  melted,  stir  in  the  flour  and  keep  stirring  until  it 
cleaves  from  the  pan.  Let  cool,  stir  in  the  eggs  and  soda, 
drop  on  the  buttered  pans  and  bake  thirty  minutes;  do  not 
open  the  oven  door  for  twenty  minutes,  for  fear  they  will  fall. 
Fill  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored. 

—Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 


CREAM  PUFFS. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  stiff,  add  one  cup  of  sugar, 
beat  well,  drop  on  paper  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 
Fill  with  whipped  cream.  — Mrs.  J.  Wiley. 


326  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CEEAM  PUFFS. 

To  the  ■unbeaten  whites  of  two  eggs  add  powdered  sugar 
to  make  very  stiff,  and  three  teaspoons  baking  powder;  drop 
from  a  teaspoon  on  paper  spread  on  the  bottom  of  a  tin  and 
bake.    Fill  with  whipped  cream.      — Mrs.  Val.  Wollner. 

COMFITS. 
2  eggs  beaten  light,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  powder, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  3  cups  flour. 

Beat  all  together  until  smooth.  Drop  one-half  tablespoon 
at  a  time  into  hot  lard.    Roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

CRULLEES. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,      4  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  soda  in  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

1  cup  sour  cream,  Little  nutmeg. 

Cut  round  and  fry  like  doughnuts.  If  preferred,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  eggs. 

— Mrs.  V.  Schrap. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

2  cups  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
2  cups  sugar,                        2  eggs, 

4  dessert  spoons  melted       Flour  to  mix  soft, 
lard,  — Mrs.  Ben  Wheeler. 


MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  327 


DOUGHNUTS.    (Fine.) 

ii  cups  sugar,  G  cups  flour, 

4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

3  teaspoons  baking  Butter  size  half  an  egg, 

powder,  Milk  to  moisten. 

Reserve  one-half  cup  of  the  flour  to  use  on  the  board  in 
rolling  out,  then  sift  the  salt  and  baldng  powder  into  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour,  rub  in  the  butter  the  same  as  for  pie 
crust,  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  rub  into  the  flour 
and  butter,  and  moisten  with  sweet  milk  (about  one  and  one- 
third  cups)  until  soft  enough  to  mould.  If  preferred,  only 
one  cup  of  sugar  may  be  used.  —Mrs.  E.  Kirkham. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

2  cups  sour  milk,  2  eggs, 

1  small  teaspoon  soda,  1  tablespoon  molasses. 

Flour  enough  to>roll  out. 

—Mrs.  A.  H.  Smith. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

1  cup  sugar,  4  dessert  spoons  melted 
1  teaspoon  soda  in  lard, 

1  cup  sour  milk.  Flour  to  mix  soft. 

2  eggs, 

—Mrs.  F.  Althaus. 


328 


WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


DOUGHNUTS. 


1  cup  sugar 

J  cup  sour  cream, 

filled  with 
J  cup  thick  sour  milk, 


3  eggs, 

1  even  teaspoon  soda, 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Salt  and  nutmeg. 


Flour  to  mix  soft;  while  frying  turn  the  cakes  often. 

— Mrs.  Thomas  Hughes. 


DOUGHNUTS. 


I  cup  sugar, 

3  tablespoons  sweet 
cream  in  a  cup ;  fill 
with  sweet  milk. 
Makes  twenty  doughnuts. 


1  egg;  salt, 

2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
Nutmeg  flavor, 

— Mrs.  P.  F.  Goodrich. 


2  eggs, 

6  tablespoons  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  soda  in 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 
Cut  round  and  fry. 


LITTLE  DOUGHNUTS. 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
2  teaspoons  cream  tartar  in 

flour  enough  to  make  soft 

dough. 

— Minnie  Breeker. 


MISCELLANEOUS   CAKES.  329 


MOTHER'S  DOUGHNUTS. 

1  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  melted  butter, 

3  eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  Little  salt. 
Flour  to  mix  soft,  Nutmeg  flavor. 

Mix  very  soft,  then  use  one-half  cup  flour  on  the  board  in 
rolling  out.    After  frying,  roll  in  sugar. 

POTATO  DOUGHNUTS. 

2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
1  cup  mashed  potato,            4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
i  cup  sweet  milk,                 J  teaspoon  ginger, 

1  cup  sugar.  Flour  to  mix  soft. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  then  beat  them  to- 
gether, put  the  potatoes  through  a  ricer,  add  the  milk,  then 
put  through  the  ricer  again,  add  the  sugar,  eggs,  ginger  and 
flour  to  which  the  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  have  been 
added.  — Mrs.  Thomas  Higgins. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS.    (Fine.) 

1  cup  sugar,  1  yeast  cake, 

3  cups  milk.  Flour  to  make  soft  sponge. 
Mix  and  let  stand  over  night ;  in  the  morning  add 

1  cup  sugar,  1  a  nutmeg, 

i  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

3  eggs  Flour  to  mix  stiff. 


330  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

Let  rise,  then  roll  and  cut  in  shape  desired,  or  roll  into 
long  strips  and  twist  into  shape;  let  rise  again  while  the  lard 
is  heating  and  then  fry.  Eaised  doughnuts  require  longer 
cooking.  — Mrs.  Hortense  Mooers. 

SOUE  CREAM  DOUGHNUTS. 
5  tablespoons  sour  cream,     J  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  cup  milk,  J  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

2  eggs,  little  salt,  1  pint  flour. 
1  teaspoon  soda. 

Mix  soft  as  possible.  — Mrs.  B.  S.  Potter. 

FRIED  CAKES. 
1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  tablespoon  lard,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

2  eggs.  Salt  and  nutmeg, 
1  cup  sour  milk.  Flour  to  roll  soft. 

Cream  the  lard  and  sugar,  sift  the  soda,  baking  powder 
and  flour  together;  mix  in  the  order  given  and  fry  in  very 
hot  lard.  — Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 

GERMAN  ALMOND  CAKES. 
^  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  in 

I  cup  butter,  IJ  pints  flour. 

5  yolks  of  eggs. 
Glaze  with  white. of  egg  mixed  with  sugar  and  chopped 
almonds.  — Mrs.  A.  M.  Wagner. 


MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  331 

GINGER  DROP  CAKES. 

1  cup  ]Sr.  0.  molasses,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt, 

J  cup  butter  or  lard,  1  teaspoon  ginger, 

i  cup  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

i  cup  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  egg,  Si  cups  flour. 

Drop  teaspoons  of  dough,  two  inches  apart,  in  tins;  when 
baJced,  roll  in  granulated  sugar.    — Mrs.  F.  M.  Schuler. 


DROP  CAKES. 

11  cups  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2J  cups  flour,  1  pound  walnuts,  ground, 

3  beaten  eggs,  f  pound  raisins. 

Drop  from  teaspoon  on  outside  of  baking  tin  and  bake  in 
low  oven.  — Mrs.  John  Meyer. 


DROP  CAKES. 

1  cup  sugar,  -J  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

i  cup  lard,  J  teaspoon  salt, 

1  Qgg,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

I  teaspoon  soda  in  sifted  in 

1  cup  buttermilk,  3  cuns  flour. 

Bake  in  gem  pans.     Makes  eighteen  cakes. 

—Mrs.   G.   A.   Knoller. 


332 


WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


HIMMEL  FUTTEE. 

6  eggs,  ^  pound  grated  almonds, 

IJ  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

J  pound  dates,  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour. 

After  dates  have  been  washed  and  stoned,  put  them  on  a 
tin  plate  in  the  oven  to  heat,  then  smooth  with  a  Imife  until 
mashed.  Beat  yolks,  add  sugar,  dates,  almonds,  flour  con- 
taining the  baking  powder  and  the  stiffly  beaten  whites ;  bake 
in  jelly  tins,  spring  form.  Spread  custard  between  the  layers 
and  whipped  cream  on  top. 


CUSTARD    FOE 

1  cup  milk, 
1  beaten  egg, 
i  cup  sugar, 


HIMMEL   FUTTER. 

1  teaspoon  cornstarch  stirred 

smooth  in  water, 
1  lemon  (juice  and  rind). 
— Mrs.  P.  W.  Harns. 


HONEY  CAKES. 

3  pints  molasses,  2  tablespoons  soda, 
1  pint  honey,  1  pound  rye  flour, 

4  eggs;  spices  to  suit,  1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Stir  the  nuts  into  a  part  of  the  rye  flour;  mix  in  the 
order  given  and  add  wheat  flour  enough  to  roll  out.  Cut  in 
oblong  pieces  and  bake.  — Mrs.  A.  M.  Wagner. 


MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  333 

HONEY  CAKES. 

3  pounds  honey,  1  pound  sugar, 

■J  pound  butter,  3  teaspoons  cinnamon, 

3  teaspoons  baking  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

powder.  2  cents  worth  anise, 

1  lemon  (juice  and  Little  citron;  nutmeg, 

rind), 
Put  the  honey,  sugar  and  butter  in  a  basin  over  the  fire 
and  stir  till  it  boils,  then  stir  in  flour  until  it  does  not  stick 
to  the  basin,  add  the  dissolved  baking  powder  and  remaining 
ingredients  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.    — Mrs.  Joseph  Ott. 

LADY  FINGERS. 
16  eggs,  1^  pounds  flour, 

li  pounds  sugar,  Flavoring;  salt. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  stiff,  then  add  the  flour,  flavoring 
and  salt,  pour  into  forms  three  inches  long  and  nearly  an 
inch  wide.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This  mixture  makes  nice 
sponge  drops  if  dropped  on  buttered  pans  and  baked. 

— Mrs.  A.  0.  Norris. 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKES.     (A  Pioneer  Recipe.) 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  two  good  sized  lemons  upon  half  a 
pound  of  boiling  butter,  then  pour  the  mixture  on  the  grated 
rinds  of  the  lemons,  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  the  whites 
of  two,  stir  all  together,  while  warm,  with  about  half  a  pound 
of  sugar.    Bake  in  pie  crust  in  small  tins  in  a  quick  oven. 

— Mrs.  Catherine  Vestey. 


334  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

MACAROONS. 

i  pound  citron,  1  pound  powdered  sugar, 

1  cup  almonds,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

.    4  eggs,  1  pound  fiour. 
Drop  on  tins  and  bake.  Mrs.  John  Meyer. 

OATMEAL  DROP  CAKES. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  cup  lard,  2  cups  oatmeal, 

i  teaspoon  soda  in  2  cups  flour, 

6  tablespoons  sour  milk,  1  cup  raisins, 

1  teaspoon  cloves,  f  cup  nuts.  — May  Bilstad. 

ORIGINAL  PIE  CAKE. 
Line  muffin  tins  with  flaky  pie-crust.     Put  in  each  a 
tablespoon  of  raspberry  jam  and  cover  with  a  spoonful  of 
plain  cake  batter,  made  as  follows: 

1  cup  sugar,  J  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  IJ  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

2  eggs,  1|  cups  flour, 

Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

— Minnie  Wilmot. 


MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  335 


PEPPER  CAKES. 


1  pound  butter,  1  teaspoon  ginger, 

1  pound  lard  (scant),         1  teaspoon  Xatamung, 
1  quart  molasses,  1  teaspoon  anise, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  or  more  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  allspice,  |  teaspoon  soda. 

Melt  the  butter  and  lard  in  the  syrup,  take  from  the 
stove,  add  the  spices  and  egg,  then  add  the  soda,  dissolved  in 
a  little  sour  cream,  and  stir  in  enough  rye  or  wheat  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  thin,  cut  like  cookies,  and,  after 
strewing  with  almonds  and  citron  (chopped  fine),  glaze  with 
white  of  egg,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Part  of  the  dough 
may  be  reserved  and  one  pound  of  blanched  almonds  and  one- 
half  pound  of  citron  (cut  fine)  added.  Roll  out  about  an 
inch  in  thickness,  cut  in  inch  squares,  and  place  close  to- 
gether in  baking  tins.    Glaze  with  white  of  egg  and  bake. 

—Mrs.  W.  P.  Rix. 

PEPPER  NUTS. 

1  quart  molasses,  2  tablespoons  cloves 

2  pounds  brown  sugar,       2  tablespoons  allspice, 

2  pounds  butter,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon, 

1  teaspoon  pepper,  2  teaspoons  soda, 

1  nutmeg,  Flour  to  make  very  stiff. 

Boil  molasses,  sugar  and  butter  together,  then  add  the 
other  ingredients.    Keep  the  dough  warm  while  moulding. 


336 


WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


Roll  into  little  balls,  the  size  of  a  marble,  in  the  palm  of  the 
hand  and  bake  until  brown.  Will  keep  indefinitely  and  grow 
better  all  the  time.  — Mrs.  H.  Sievers. 


PEPPER  NUTS. 


2  pounds  sifted  sugar, 
12  eggs, 

2  lemons  (juice,  rind), 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
J  teaspoon  cloves, 
-J  teaspoon  allspice. 
Stir  sugar  and  eggs  together  one  hour. 

— Catherine  Duemberger. 


1  nutmeg, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
J  cup  raisins, 
J  cup  nuts,  chopped, 
Flour,  not  too  stiff. 


ROCKS. 


IJ  cups  brown  sugar, 
J  cup  butter  (scant), 
IJ  pounds  walnuts,  dried 

in  oven  and  chopped, 
1  pound  seeded  raisins 

(chopped). 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 
warm  water. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten, 
1  teaspoon  cloves. 


Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

— Emma  Bomgruber. 


MISCELLANEOUS   CAKES.  337 


FEUIT  ROCKS. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 

f  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

IJ  cups  flour,  1- teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

1  cup  currants,  l  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  rolled  nuts,  1  teaspoon  flavoring. 

Dissolve  soda  in  water.  — Mrs.  C.  W.  Smith. 

OATMEAL  ROCKS. 

1  cup  sugar,  J  cup  walnuts, 

f  cup  butter  and  lard,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2  cups  flour,  1  nutmeg, 

3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
J  cup  dates,  1  cup  oatmeal. 

Chop  dates  and  walnuts,  dissolve  soda  in  a  little  hot 
u^ater,  stir  together  well,  drop  from  teaspoon  on  pan  and  bake. 

— Mrs.  Kees. 

ROLL  JELLY  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

4  eggs,  1  cup  flour. 
1  tablespoon  cold  water. 

Beat  sugar  and  eggs  together  and  sift  the  baking  powder 
in  the  flour;  then  mix  in  the  order  given  and  bake  quickly  in 
long,  shallow  tins.  Soon  as  baked,  slip  from  the  tins,  spread 
jelly  on  the  bottom,  roll,  and  place  napkin  around  until  cool. 

— Adele  Silberzahn. 


338  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


ROLL  JELLY  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter  (scant),  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

f  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  flavoring, 

3  large  eggs,  Pinch  of  salt, 

1  tablespoon  cream.  Flour  to  mix  soft. 

Spread  thin  in  large  tin  to  bake.      — Mrs.  Gilbert. 

EOLL  JELLY  CAKE. 

1  pound  sugar,  4  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

12  eggs,  J  pound  flour. 

Makes  two  cakes.  — Mrs.  Smith. 

JELLY  EOLL.     (Fine.) 

3  eggs,  1  cup  flour, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  12  tablespoons  sweet  cream. 

Beat  the  eggs  light,  then  add  the  level  cup  of  sugar  and 
beat  with  the  egg  beater  until  very  light.  Sift  the  flour, 
baking  powder  and  level  teaspoon  of  salt  together  twice,  add 
to  the  eggs  and  sugar,  beat,  add  the  cream  last.  Spread  thin 
and  bake  twelve  minutes.  — Mrs.  G.  A.  Knoller. 

SNOW  BALLS. 

J  pound  butter,  4  whites  of  eggs, 

IJ  cups  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

3  cups  sifted  flour, 


MISCELLANEOUS    CAKES  339 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  graaulated  sugar 
gradually,  beating  it  in  well;  beat  in  the  milk  (or  water)  a 
little  at  a  time;  sift  the  flour  three  times  more,  add  two  cups 
of  it  to  the  mixture  aud  beat  five  minutes;  next  add  the 
btiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Sift  the  baking  powder  with 
the  remaining  cup  of  flour,  add  it  lightly  to  the  batter,  flavor, 
pour  into  dripping  pan  lined  with  white  paper,  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Cut  into 
squares.  Have  ready  a  soft  icing,  and  ice  each  piece  on  the 
top  and  sides.  — Hortense  E.  Mooers. 

SUGAR  CAKES. 

6  raw  eggs;  yolks  of  1  pound  butter, 

6  hard-boiled  eggs,  3  cups  sugar, 

(mashed).  Flour  enough  to  roll  out. 

Cut  into  small  round  cakes,  then  stir  a  little  sugar  into 
one  egg,  spread  a  portion  of  the  mixture  over  each  cake  with 
a  feather,  then  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  chopped 
almonds,  and  bake.  — Mrs.  A.  G.  Winkler. 

SULTANS. 

The  weight  of  four  eggs  in  sugar,  the  weight  of  two  eggs 
in  flour,  four  eggs,  mix  the  eggs  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add 
the  flour  and  a  little  lemon.  Spread  like  little  pancakes,  on 
tins,  strew  with  almonds,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  and  roll  while  hot. 

— Mrs.  L.  Schuchardt. 


340  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

TABLETS.     (Iced.) 

Cut  any  desirable  cake  into  thin  slices,  put  together  with 
jelly  and  cover  both  sides  neatly  with  icing. 

ALMOND  TORTE. 

■J  pound  butter,  J  pound  grated  almonds, 

^  pound  flour,  -J  pound  powdered  sugar, 

2  yolks  of  eggs,  6  whites  of  eggs,     . 

2  teaspoons  baking  pow-     1  lemon  rind,  grated, 
der, 
Rub  the  butter,  flour  and  yolks  of  eggs  together,  line  the 
bottom  and  sides  of  a  tin  with  removable  bottom  with  the 
dough,  then  fill  with  the  remaining  ingredients  stirred  to- 
gether and  bake.  — Amanda  Franckenberg. 

ALMOND  TORTE. 

f  pound  powdered  sugar,     1  cup  bread  crumbs, 
8  eggs.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

^  pound  sweet  almonds, 
Grind  the  almonds,  brown  the  bread  crumbs;  stir  the  in- 
gredients together  adding  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
last.  —Mrs.  H.  P.  Bohn. 


TORTEN.  341 


GERMAN  ALMOND  TORTB. 

f  pound  sugar,  J  pound  bitter  almonds, 

13  eggs,  unblanched,  ground  fine, 

1  lemon  rind,  5  ounces  flour. 

Stir  the  granulated  sugar  with  the  yolks  twenty  minutes, 
then  add  grated  rind,  almonds,  flour  and  beaten  whites, 
lightly  as  for  Angel  Food.  Bake  slowly  an  hour  in  a  drop 
rim  pan  lined  with  buttered  paper. 

— Mrs.  Joseph  Merlach. 

ALMOND  TORTE. 

1  pound  almonds  f  pound  powdered 

(ground),  sugar, 

9  eggs   (beaten  sep-  2  teaspoons  baking 

parately) ,  powder. 

Sift  the  baking  powder  and  almonds  together  and  add 
the  beaten  whites  last.     Bake  one  hour. 

—Miss  N.  O'Connell. 

ANGEL  CAKE  TORTE. 

.1  cup  flour   (scant),  1  cup  walnuts   (cut), 

1  cup  sugar   (scant),  1  cup  dates   (cut), 

1  teaspoon  baking  4  eggs, 

powder. 
Add  the  beaten  whites  last.    Very  nice. 

Mrs.  J.  Wilf;y,  Hartford. 


342  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

APPLE  TORTE. 

Line  a  spring  form  with  rich  pie  crust  rolled  thin,  put  in 
a  layer  of  sour  apples  sliced  fine,  over  this  a  layer  of  a  mixture 
of  sugar,  chopped  raisins,  chopped  almonds  or  walnuts  and 
currants;  grate  a  little  Zwieback  over,  put  in  another  layer 
of  apples  and  thus  alternate  layers  until  tin  is  full,  then  pour 
over  about  one  cup  of  sweet  cream  beaten  with  three  or  four 
egg  yolks,  strew  over  a  layer  of  Zwieback,  bake  and  when  cold 
serve  with  whipped  cream.        — Mrs.  Amiel  Vollendorf. 

BLAETTER  TORTE. 

6  yolks  eggs,  6  tablespoons  thick  sour 

1  cup  butter,  cream. 

Cream  the  butter  and  yolks,  add  the  cream  and  flour 
enough  to  roll  out  like  thin  pie  crust.  When  baked,  fill  layers 
altemaitely  with  custard  and  jelly,  having  jelly  on  top  layer. 

— ^Mrs.  Victor  Husting. 

BLITZ  TORTE. 

i  pound  butter,  4  yolks, 

|-  pound  powdered  3  teaspoons  milk, 

sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking 
i  pound  flour,  powder. 


TORTEN.  343 


Beat  well  together,  then  divide  into  two  layers.  Beat 
tJie  whites  of  fonr  eggs,  add  six  ounces  granulated  sugar,  beat 
again,  then  spread  over  the  two  layers  of  dough,  over  this 
sprinkle  one-fourth  pound  almonds  (blanched  and  chopped), 
then  bake  thirty  minutes  with  a  low  fire;  do  not  open  the 
oven  door  until  the  cake  is  done. 

Filling: 
1  beaten  egg,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

1  tablespoon  corn-  1  cup  sour  cream, 
starch,                                3  tablespoons  sugar. 

Boil  until  tliick  and  spread  between  the  layers  but  not  on 
top.  •  —Mrs.  W.  E.  Schmidt. 

BROT  TORTE. 

10  eggs,  i  teaspoon  cardamon  seeds, 

2  cups  sugar,  1  pint  rye  bread  crumbs, 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon,         5  cents  worth  citron,  chop- 
I  pound  sweet  almonds,  ped  very  fine. 

chopped  fine. 
Beat  yolks  and  sugar;  add  beaten  whites  and  remaining 
ingredients.     Butter  the  form  well  and  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs  before  putting  in  the  batter.    Bake  slowly  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  .  — Mrs.  Henry  Krieger. 


344  WEST   BEND   COOK    BOOK. 

BROT  TORTE. 
12  eggs ;  flavoring,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

J  pound  powdered  sugar,     ^  pound  bread, 
J  pound  grated  almonds,      1  tablespoon  flour. 
Break   the   bread   into   bits,   roast   in   the   oven,   pound 
smooth  in  a  mortar,  then  add  the  flour  containing  the  baking 
powder,  yolks  and  sugar  which  have  been  beaten  together,  al- 
monds, flavoring  and  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 

— Mrs.  Hyer,  Sheboygan. 

CHOCOLATE  TORTE. 

14  eggs,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

}  pound  sugar,  ^  pound  chocolate. 

4  pound  almonds. 

Stir  yolks  and  sugar  until  thick;  grate  the  almonds 
(without  blanching),  add  these  next  with  the  baking  powder, 
then  the  chocolate,  and  lastly,  the  beaten  whites. 

— Mrs.  Stephen  F.  Mayer. 

CRANBERRY  TORTE. 

3  eggs,  1  cup  dates, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour, 

1  cup  walnuts,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  the  walnuts  (not 
chopped),  dates  (chopped),  flour  containing  baking  powder 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


TORTEN.  345" 


The  day  before  serving  cook  one  quart  of  cranberries  with  one 
cup  of  sugar  and  when  cool  spread  on  the  cake.  Just  before 
serving  the  next  day  cover  the  cranberries  with  whipped 
cream.  — Mrs.  Louis  Kronitz. 


CREME  TORTE. 

1  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  sugar; 

4  egg  yolks,  2  oranges  (juice), 

1  glass  of  water,  1  lemon  (juice). 

Stir  well.  Bake  a  pie  crust  first,  fill  with  the  creme  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Frost  with  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
sweetened.     This  makes  a  large  pie. 

— Mrs.  Sophie  Bordoe. 

DATE  TOETE. 

6  eggs,  1  cup  walnuts,  chopped, 

1  cup  dates,  pressed  full,     2  large  tablespoons  flour, 
1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Chop  dates  and  sugar  together,  beat  eggs  separately,  mix 
ingredients  thoroughly  adding  beaten  whites  last;  bake  in 
long  flat  tin  in  a  moderate  oven,  cut  in  squares  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored. 

— Mrs.  E.  Carns. 


346  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

DATE  TOETE. 

■i  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking 

1  cup  sugar,  powder, 

1  pound  dates,  6  tablespoons  bread 

J  pound  walnuts,  crumbs. 

Stir  eggs  and  sugar  together.  Mix  the  grated  bread 
crumbs,  baking  powder,  rolled  walnuts  and  chopped  dates, 
then  stir  all  together  thoroughly  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

— Mrs.  E.  Weininger. 

FARINA  TORTE. 

6  eggs,  1  cup  nuts, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

1  cup  farina,  powder. 

Mix  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar,  add  the 
yolks,  beat  well,  add  the  farina  containing  the  baking  powder, 
and  the  nuts,  chopped  fine.  Bake  and  when  cold  cover  with 
whipped  cream.  —Mrs.  George  Enger. 

FARINA  TORTE. 

1  pound  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
6  eggs,  beaten  separately,  5  cents  worth  walnuts  and 
1  cup  farina,  5  cents  worth  filberts,  chop- 

I  cup  toast  crumbs,  ped  fine. 

-—Mrs.  F.  M.  Schuler. 


TORTEN.  347 


FILBEET  TOKTE. 

8  eggs,  i  lemon  rind, 

1^  cups  powdered  sugar,     3  tablespoons  bread  crumbs, 
1  pound  filberts,  J  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

i  cup  almonds,  grated. 
Weigh  the  filberts  in  the  shell;  stir  yolks  and  sugar  to  a 
cream  then  add  grated  filbert  meats,  almonds,  dry  bread 
crumbs,  baking  powder,  grated  rind  and  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  last ;  bake  in  moderate  oven,  serve  with  or  without 
whipped  cream.  — Mrs.  E.  Cams. 

FRENCH  TORTE. 

1  cup  chopped  almonds,       1  lemon  rind, 
1  cup  sugar,  4  whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Rose  or  vanilla  flavor. 
Make  a  rich  pie  crust  with  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  a  little  sugar  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out.    Fill  and 
bake  same  as  pie.  — Mrs.  Fred  Stork. 

FRUIT  TORTE. 

1  heaping  tablespoon  1-h  tablespoons  sweet  cream, 
butter,                                f  cups  flour;  salt, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  J  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
1  eggf  slightly  beaten. 


348  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  other  ingredients, 
then  add  more  flour  until  the  mixture  can  be  spread  on  a 
large  layer  cake  tin  with  the  hand.  Cover  this  thin  layer  of 
dough  with  sweetened  fruit  and  bake.  Cherries,  plums,  ap- 
ples, peaches  or  gooseberries  are  delicious. 

— Martha  Von  Syberg. 

FRUIT    TORTE. 

J  pound  flour,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 

i  pound  butter,  2  eggs. 

Mix  flour  and  butter  like  pie  crust,  add  sugar,  eggs  one 
at  a  time  without  beating,  mix  with  a  knife,  spread  on  bottom 
and  sides  of  a  spring  form  pan;  then  put  three-fourths  cup 
sugar  and  one-fourth  pound  grated  almonds  in  a  spider  over 
the  fire,  stir  until  brown  and  spread  on  the  dough;  then  mix 
any  kind  of  fruit  with  four  beaten  eggs,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  comstarch,  one  scant  cup  milk  or  cream;  pour  into 
the  pan  and  bake.  When  using  canned  fruit,  use  juice  of 
fruit  in  place  of  milk  and  add  about  one  teaspoon  com  starch 
to  a  cup  of  juice. 

HIMMEL  TORTE. 

10  ounces  butter,  1  lemon  rind, 

4  tablespoons  sugar,  3  largs  cups  patent  flour, 

4  yolks  of  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


TORTEN.  349 


Mix,  divide  into  three  layers  and  spread  with  the  un- 
beaten whites  of  three  eggs,  mixed  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and 
chopped     almonds.     Bake  and  spread  the  layers  with  rasp- 
berry jelly,  then  spread  the  jelly  with  the  following  custard: 
1  cup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

Sugar  to  taste,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

1  lemon  (juice),  2  yolks  of  eggs. 

Mix  the  cream,  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  vanilla,  boil,  add 
the  flour,  remove  from  the  fire  and  when  cold  add  the  beaten 
yolks.    Whipped  cream  may  be  used  in  place  of  custard. 

— Helen  Simon. 


MANDEL  TORTE. 

1  pound  almonds,  1  dozen  eggs, 

1  pound  sugar,  1  lemon  rind. 

Grate  half  the  almonds  very  fine,  the  rest  somewhat 
coarser.  Stir  the  yolks  and  sugar  one-half  hour,  add  the 
almonds,  lemon  rind  and  lastly  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven  and  serve  with 
whipped  cr.eam.  — Mrs.  A.  B.  Liebermann. 


350  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

MANDEL  TOETE. 

14  eggs,  4  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

I  pound  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

1  pound  almonds,  1  lemon. 

Stir  yolks  and  sugar  until  thick ;  add  the  almonds,  grated 
without  blanching,  flour  containing  the  baking  powder,  stiffly 
beaten  whites,  juice  and  rind  of  lemon,  stir  lightly  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Frosting — Juice  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoon  water  and 
powdered  sugar  enough  to  make  smooth. 

— Mrs.  Stephen  F.  Mayer. 

MOCHA  TORTE. 

6  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  sugar,  3  teaspoons  coffee 

1  cup  flour,  essence. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  other 
ingredients.  Bake  in  layers  and  fill  with  the  following  un- 
cooked filling.     Put  whole  walnuts  on  the  top: 

2  heaping  tablespoons         2  tablespoons  coffee 
butter,  essence, 

1^  cups  powdered  sugar,       1  egg. 

Mix  sugar  and  essence,  then  add  the  beaten  egg  and  beat 
in  the  butter  last.     This  torte  may  also  be  baked  in  a  loaf. 

— Mrs.  Larson. 


TORTEN.  351 


NUT  TORTE. 

9  eggs,  4  ounces  bread, 

6  ounces  almonds,  |  pound  sugar, 

1  lemon  rind,  Little  citron. 

Cinnamon,  nutmeg. 
Stir  yolks  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  sweet  almonds, 
chopped  lemon  rind,  spices,  citron  cut  fine,  grated  rye  bread 
and  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  bake  in  three  layers.  Stir 
together  one  egg,  one  yolk,  juice  of  one  lemon,  three-fourths 
cup  sugar  and  one  fourth  pound  walnuts  and  fill  the  cake. 

—Mrs.  E.  F.  Kothlow. 


POTATO  TORTE. 

10  eggs,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

1  pound  powdered  sugar.     1  teaspoon  allspice, 
I  pound  potatoes,  i  pound  almonds  (chopped) 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  5  cents  worth  citron. 

Squeeze  the  boiled  potatoes  through  a  ricer  on  to  a  nap- 
kin to  cool ;  stir  yolks  and  sugar  together  well,  add  remaining 
ingredients,  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  last.  Bake  in  a 
spring  pan  three-fourths  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  C.  Marth. 


352  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


POTATO  TORTE. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

1  cup  butter,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 

4  eggs,  beat  separately,       2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
I  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour, 

i  bar  chocolate,  1  cup  grated  potato, 

1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  cup  chopped  almonds. 

Add  beaten  whites  of  eggs  last. 

—Mrs.  T.  W.  Willert. 


RYE  BREAD  TORTE. 

12  eggs,  J  cup  rye  bread  (roasted), 

4  pound  sugar,  1  rind  of  lemon  (grated). 

J  pound  almonds. 
Beat  yolks  and  sugar  one-half  hour.     Add  lemon  rind, 
bread,  almonds  and  beaten  whites. — Mrs.  Herman  Gerlach. 

SAND  TORTE. 

J  pound  butter,  i  pound  flour, 

4  pound  powdered  sugar,     i  pound  cornstarch, 
6  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  the  eggs  one  at  a 
time,  bake  in  four  layers,  in  rather  slow  oven.  Makes  two 
cakes.    Use  any  filling  desired. 

— Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 


TORTEN.  353 


SCHAUM  TORTE. 

6  whites  of  eggs,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 

2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  sugar  gradually, 
then  the  vinegar  and  vanilla,  beating  all  the  time.  Bake  in 
two  layers  in  a  very  slow  oven,  one  hour.  Fill  and  cover  with 
whipped  cream.     Serve  whole  on  a  platter  with  a  spoon. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Schneiss. 

ZWIEBACK  TORTE. 

I  pound  sugar,  |  nutmeg, 

12  egg  yolks,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  lemon  (juice),  |  pound  Zwieback  (grated), 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  pound  almonds  (grated). 
4  teaspoon  allspice,  12  egg  whites,  beaten. 

Beat  sugar  and  yolks  together  well,  add  remaining  in- 
gredients in  order  given,  mix  thoroughly,  bake  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven.  When  almost  done,  put  a  little  butter  and  sugar 
over  the  top.  — Mrs.  Alfred  H.  Weil. 

CHOCOLATE  WAFEES. 

2  cups  sugar,  J  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  cup  grated  chocolate,       1  tablespoon  vanilla, 
1  egg,  Flour  to  roll  out. 


-Mrs.  Albert  E.  Gray. 


23 


354  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE  WAFE,RS. 

1^  cups  powdered  sugar,     J  cup  sifted  flour, 
1  bar  sweet  chocolate,  4  whites  of  eggs. 

— Mary  Bertram. 


CHOCOLATE  WAFERS. 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  egg, 

1  cup  white  sugar,  1  tablespoon  vanilla, 

1  cup  butter,  Flour  enough  to  roll  out. 

1  cup  grated  chocolate. 
Bake  a  short  time.       — Miss  Amanda  Franckenberg. 


ORANGE  WAFERS. 

4  ounces  butter,  i  teaspoon  salt, 

4  ounces  sugar,  ^  teacup  milk, 

8  ounces  sifted  flour,  1  tablespoon  orange  flower 

1  egg  yolk,  water. 

Put  the  butter  in  the  warm  milk;  sift  the  sugar,  flour 
and  salt  together,  mix  with  yolk  of  the  egg,  add  the  milk  and 
orange  water  gradually,  mixing  well.  Heat  and  grease  wafer- 
irons,  fill  with  a  spoonful  of  batter  and  close,  return  to  the 
fire,  turn  occasionally  until  the  wafer  is  cooked,  then  roll 
them  on  small,  round  sticks  and  dry  on  a  sieve.  Serve  with 
ices. 


WAFERS.  355 


SUGAK  WAFERS. 

2  cups  sugar,  J  teaspoon  soda  in 

1  cup  butter,  1  tablespoon  sweet  milk, 

4  eggs,  caraway,  Flour  to  mix  stiff. 

Stir  the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  together  well,  add  the 
remaining  ingredients,  roll  thin,  cut  like  cookies  and  bake  in 
quick  oven.  — Mrs.  Geo.  Dinkel. 

TEA  LEMON  WAFERS. 

^  cup  butter,  2  lemons, 

1  coffee  cup  sugar,  1  nutmeg, 

6  eggs,  Flour. 

Cream  the  butter  and  powdered  sugar,  add  the  eggi 
beaten  till  creamy,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  lemons,  nutmeg 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  beat  till  smooth  and 
light.  Heat  wafer-irons,  grease  lightly  with  butter,  fill,  close 
and  turn  over  clear  fire  till  brown.  Dust  with  sugar,  roll 
around  a  stick  and  remove  carefully  when  cold. 

WHISTLES.    (Fine). 

^  cup  butter,  6  eggs,  beaten, 

1  cup  sugar.  Flour  to  make  stiff  batter. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs  and  flour,  drop 
little  pats  three  inches  apart  on  a  buttered  paper,  spread  thin, 
bake  in  a  pan  until  a  light  brown,  about  five  minutes,  place 
on  a  sugared  molding  board  and  roll  while  warm  on  a  smooth, 
round  stick;  when  cold,  fill  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened 
and  flavored  with  vanilla. 


356  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

ALMOND  COOKIES. 

J  pound  butter,  J  pound  sifted  flour, 

J  pound  sugar,  2  eggs ;  grated  rind  of 

J  pound  almonds,  I  lemon. 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and,  when  dry,  chop  fine;  stir  the 
butter  until  creamy,  add  the  eggs,  mix  the  sugar  and  almonds, 
add  two-thirds  of  this  mixture  to  the  butter  and  eggs,  setting 
aside  the  remainder  for  the  top.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  grated 
lemon  rind,  roll  out  one-fifth  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut 
into  diamonds  three  inches  in  length,  spread  over  the  top  the 
white  of  an  egg,  and  on  this  sprinkle  the  remainder  of  the 
sugar  and  almonds.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  to  a  golden 
brown.  — Mrs.  William  Peters. 


AMMONIA  COOKIES. 

6  eggs,  2  teaspoons  carbonate  of 

2  cups  sugar,  ammonia, 

1  cup  butter.  Flour  enough  to  roll  as  soft 

1  cup  lard,  as  can  be  handled. 

Beat  eggs  and  ammonia  together  in  the  evening  and  add 
sugar,  lard,  butter  and  flour  the  next  morning. 

— Mrs.  Geo.  Aulenbacher. 


COOKIES.  357 

AMMOKIA  COOKIES. 

1  ounce  ammonia,  4  cups  sugar, 

1  pint  sweet  milk,  4  eggs, 

2  cups  butter.  Flour  to  mix  soft. 
Dissolve  ammonia  in  the  milk  and  let  stand  over  night; 

in  the  morning  cream  the  butter  with  three  cups  of  the  sugar, 
add  the  eggs  and  flour,  roll  out,  cut  into  cookies,  sprinkle 
with  the  remaining  cup  of  sugar  and  bake. 

— Mrs.  H.  Mead. 

ANISE  COOKIES. 

4  large  eggs,  -|  cup  cornstarch, 

1  pound  powdered  sugar,     1  teaspoon  anise. 
1  heaping  cup  flour. 
Add  eggs  to  the  sugar  one  at  a  time,  stirring  briskly 
forty-five   minutes;    then    add    the   other    ingredients,    stir 
thoroughly  and  drop  from  a  teaspoon,  four  in  a  pan ;  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  — Mrs.  C.  Marth. 

BROWN  COOKIES. 

1  .cup  lard,  2  eggs, 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  2  teaspoons  sode, 

1  cup  molasses,  2  teaspoons  ginger, 

J  cup  sour  milk,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 
Flour  enough  to  roll  soft.         — Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 


358  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 

J  cup  butter,  2  ounces  chocolate, 

1  tablespoon  lard,  1  egg  (well  beaten), 

1  cup  sugar,  4  teaspoon  soda  in 

1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  milk, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  2J  cups  flour. 

Cream  the  butter  and  lard,  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar, 
then  add  salt,  cinnamon,  Baker's  chocolate,  egg,  milk  and 
flour.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  — Mrs.  W.  P.  Rix. 


CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar,       1 J  cups  flour, 
4  cup  melted  butter,  1  cup  raisins  and  nuts, 

■|  teaspoon  soda,  3  squares  chocolate. 

J  c'^p  sweet  milk. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  buttermilk  or  sour  milk, 
chop  the  raisins  and  nuts,  melt  the  chocolate,  mix  in  the  order 
given,  drop  on  tins,  a  small  tablespoonful  at  a  time  and  bake 
very  slowly.  — ^Mrs  Alien. 


COOKIES.  359 


CHRISTMAS  COOKIES. 

i  pound  butter,  1  pint  sweet  milk, 

11  pounds  sugar,  1  lemon  (juice  and  rind), 

6  eggs,  3  cents  worth  ammonia. 

— Mrs.  Thomas  Jenner. 

COOKIES. 

1  pound  powdered  sugar,     i  ounce  cinnamon, 
1  lemon  rind,  1  pound  almonds. 

6  whites  of  eggs. 

Stir  the  sifted  sugar,  grated  rind  of  lemon  and  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  fifteen  minutes,  then  set  aside  one 
teacupful,  and  to  the  remainder  add  the  cinnamon  and  grated 
almonds;  roll  one-quarter  inch  in  tliickness  and  spread  with 
the  sugar  and  eggs  in  the  teacup.  Cut  with  a  star  form  and 
dip  into  granulated  sugar  each  time  before  cutting. 

—Mrs.  H.  Rolfs. 

COOKIES. 
4  cups  white  sugar,  6  whites  of  eggs,  beaten, 

1  large  bowl  sour  cream,      Vanilla  or  lemon, 
1  teaspoon  soda.  Flour  to  mix  soft. 

Roll  thin,  cut  in  cakes,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven. 


360 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


COOKIES. 


2  eggs,  beaten, 
2  level  cups  sugar, 
1  nutmeg,  grated, 
1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  heaping  cup  lard, 


1  heaping  teaspoon  soda, 
1  cup  sour  milk, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
Flour  to  mix  soft. 

— Mrs.  C.  L.  Sawyer. 


COOKIES. 


3  cups  sugar, 
1  cup  butter, 
IJ  cups  sour  milk, 


3  eggs;  nutmeg, 
^  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Flour  to  mix  soft. 
— Mrs.  Sophie  Bordoe. 


COOKIES. 


1  cup  butter, 

2  cups  sugar, 

3  eggs, 

:i  to  J  cup  of  milk. 


i  teaspoon  salt, 

i  teaspoon  lemon  oil, 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Flour  to  roll  soft. 


Use  as  little  flour  as  will  make  them  stay  puffed  up  in  a 
very  hot  oven.  — Mrs.  F.  E.  Walbridge. 


COOKIES.  361 


COOKIES. 

li  pounds  sugar,  3  pounds  flour, 

1  pound  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved 
i  pint  cold  water,  in  hot  water, 

2  eggs.  Lemon  flavor. 

Eub  the  butter  in  the  flour,  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the 
water,  mix  all  well  with  beaten  eggs,  and  bake  quickly. 

— E.  G.  Boden. 

COOKIES. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda ;  salt, 

1  cup  sour  cream,  |  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  teaspoon  caraway.  Flour  to  roll  soft. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  — Mrs.  Mary  Schuman. 

COOKIES  (Snaps). 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 
1  cup  syrup,  2  teaspoons  soda, 

1  cup  shortening,  ^  teaspoon  cloves, 
i  cup  cold  water,  I  teaspoon  allspice, 

2  teaspoons  ginger,  |  teaspoon  nutmeg. 
Elour  to  roll  not  too  stiff.     Very  nice. 


— Mrs.  C.  A.  Silberzahn. 


24 


362 


WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


CREAM  COOKIES  (Fine). 


2  cups  sugar  and 
1  cup  butter,  creamed, 
1  teaspoon  soda  in 
1  cup  sour  cream, 


2  eggs,  beaten, 
1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  teaspoon  flavoring, 
Flour  to  mix  soft. 

—Mrs.  H.  P.  Bohn, 


CREAM  COOKIES. 

1  bowl  cream,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  bowl  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  sugar  and  cream,  let  stand  an  hour  or  two,  until 
dissolved  stirring  occasionally  then  add  flour  enough  to  make 
soft  dough.  Sweet  or  sour  cream  may  be  used,  if  sour  add 
one  teaspoon  soda.  — Mrs.  S.  W.  Grinnell. 


CRUMPETS. 

2  teaspoons  soda, 
1  cup  chopped  nuts, 
Flour  enough  to  roll  out.    Cut 
3  tablespoons  cold  water,         like  cookies. 

— Mrs.  George  Kuehlthau. 


1^  cups  sugar, 
J  cup  butter. 


COOKIES.  363 


EIER  PLAETZCHElSr. 

4  yolks  hard  boiled  J  pound  sugar, 

eggs,  i  pound  butter, 

2  yolks  of  raw  eggs,  1  pound  flour. 

Stir  together,  roll,  cut  with  cooky  cutter,  spread  with 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  one  tablespoon  sugar;  over 
this  spread  chopped  almonds.     Bake.  — Mrs.  A.  Husting. 

ENGLISH  BUTTEHTEICH. 

Divide  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  flour  into  two  parts. 
To  one  part  add  one  pound  of  butter,  work  well  and  fast, 
then  set  aside  in  a  cool  place.  To  the  other  part  add  two 
eggs  and  two  yolks,  a  little  salt  and  enough  sweet  milk  to 
make  stiff  as  noodle  dough;  work  this  until  it  blisters  then 
set  aside  one  hour  or  longer  after  which  roll  very  thin,  spread 
the  first  part  over,  fold  four  times  and  roll  very  thin  again ; 
repeat  the  folding  and  rolling  three  or  four  times  then  cut 
in  any  desirable  shape  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

— Theresa  Detling. 

FLOTT  KLINGELN. 

^  pound  butter,  8  tablespoons  sour  cream, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  pound  wheat  flour. 

Knead  into  dough,  roll  thin,  cut  into  half  inch  wide 
strips,  shape  into  small  "B,^^  moisten  the  top  with  melted 
butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake. 

— Clara  Kuechenmeister. 


364 


WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


FIG  COOKIES.     (Filled.) 
1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

1  teaspoon  soda, 

2  teaspoons  cream  of 
tartar. 


J  cup  butter, 
■J  cup  milk, 

3-i  cups  flour, 


Filling. 
i  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  flour, 

■J  cup  water,  1  cup  chopped  figs. 

Cook  until  thick.    Cut  out  the  cookies,  spread  a  teaspoon 
of  filling  between  each  two  and  halve. 

— Mrs.  Mary  House. 


FRUIT  COOKIES. 
2  cups  brown  sugar,  4  tablespoons  sour  milk, 


2  cups  raisins,  chapped, 

2  eggs, 

1  cup  butter, 

1  teaspoon  soda, 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
i  teaspoon  nutmeg. 
Flour  to  roll. 

— Mrs.  Fred  Baertschy. 


COOKIES.  365 


GEEMAN     CHRISTMAS  COOKIES. 

1  quart  syrup,  1  good  pint  lard  and 

1  cup  sugar,  butter  mixed. 

Warm  all  together  a  little,  then  add — • 
1  tablespoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  allspice, 

1  tablespoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  ginger, 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon,       2  eggs, 
1  nutmeg,  J  cup  sour  milk, 

1  tablespoon  saleratus  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water, 
5  cents'  worth  of  anise  seed, 
5  cents'  worth  of  citron,  cut  fine. 
Flour  to  make  very  stiff. 

May  be  mixed  at  night  and  baked  the  next  morning. 

— Mrs.  A.  D.  Woodward. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

1  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  ginger, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  cup  shortening,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  buttermilk,  Flour  to  roll  soft. 

— Mrs.  Nichols. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

1  cup  sugar,  3  teaspoons  soda  in 

1  cup  butter,  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,. 

3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  teaspoon  ginger,  6  cups  flour. 

— Mrs.  H.  Mead. 


366  WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

GINGEK  CEEAMS. 
4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses, 

1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  tablespoon  lemon  extract, 

1  cup  butter.  Flour  to  mix  medium. 

— Mrs.  Charles  Bear. 

GINGER  CEEAMS. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  even  tablespoon  soda, 

1  cup  lard,  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses, 

1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  cup  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  water,  stir  well  together  and 
add  flour  to  mix  stiff  enough  so  the  spoon  will  stand  up- 
right. Let  stand  over  night  and  in  the  morning  cut  into 
cookies  and  bake ;  when  cool  cover  with  bodied  icing. 

— Mollie  Kelley. 

GINGEE  SNAPS. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  ginger, 

1  cup  molasses,  4  tablespoons  cold  water, 

1  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  egg,  Flour  to  roll  out. 

— Elizabeth  Dunham. 


COOKIES.  367 


GINGER  SNAPS. 

i  pound  butter,  3  tablespoons  ginger, 

J  pound  lard,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 

J  pound  brown  sugar,  2  quarts  flour, 

1  quart  syrup,  4  teaspoons  soda. 

Dissolve  soda  in  milk ;  melt  butter,  lard,  sugar  and  syrup 
together.  When  oool,  add  the  other  ingredients  and  more 
flour  to  stiffen;  roll  very  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

— Mrs.  Arthur  Franckenberg. 


GINGER  SNAPS. 

1  cup  syrup,  1  tablespoon  ginger 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda  in 

f  cup  lard  or  butter,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 

1  egg,  Flour  enough  to  mix  stiff. 
Cut  with  cover  of  a  round  spice  box.     Very  nice  and 

look  and  taste  just  like  those  sold  in  stores. 

— Mrs.  Joseph  Ott. 

HERMIT  COOKIES. 

H  cups  sugar,  J  cup  thick  sour  cream, 

2  ^gg^>  i  teaspoon  soda, 
1  heaping  cup  butter.  Flour  to  roll  out. 

—Mrs.  A.  H.  Smith. 


368 


WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


HEEMIT  COOKIES. 


2  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  butter, 

2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  soda  in 
1  cup  thick  sour  milk, 


1  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  cup  chopped  raisins, 
Flour  to  roll  soft. 


Sprinkle  sugar  on  top. — Mrs,  Catherine  Duernberger. 


HERMIT  COOKIES. 


3  eggs, 

IJ  cups  sugar, 

■J  cup  butter, 

1  cup  chopped  raisins, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 


i  nutmeg, 

i  teaspoon  soda  in 

2  tablespoons  of  water, 

J  teaspoon  cloves, 

Flour  to  roll  out. 

— Mrs.  Joseph  Ott. 


HERMITS. 


1 J  cups  brown  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  cloves, 

1  teaspoon  soda, 

2  cups  flour  (scant), 
1  cup  raisins, 

Drop  from  a  spoon  and  bake  two  or  three  weeks  before 
using.  — Mrs.  Paul  Rix. 


1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
3  eggs  (unbeaten), 
1  cup  melted  butter, 
1  cup  currants, 
1  cup  nut  meats. 


COOKIES.  369 


HICKORYNUT  COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sour  milk, 

l-J  cups  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

4  eggs,  salt.  Flour  to  mix  stiff, 

1  small  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  hickory  nut  meats. 

—A.  Carl. 

MOLASSES  CANDY  COOKIES. 

f  pound  butter,  2  pounds  flour, 

2  pounds  molasses,  1  teaspoon  ginger, 

1  pound  dark  brown  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract, 

sugar. 
Melt  the  butter,  stir  in  the  ginger,  add  molasses,  sugar, 
flour  and  lemon.     Mix  well  and  let  stand  over  night.     Drop 
on  tins  in  the  morning  to  bake;  they  will  spread  themselves 
in  the  oven.  — Katherine  M.  Bowen. 

NEW  YEARNS  COOKIES. 

4  pounds  flour,  ^  ounce  ammonia  and 

I  pound  butter,  1  small  teaspoon  soda,  dis- 

1  pint  boiling  water,  solved  in  hot  water, 

If  pounds  sugar,  2  tablespoons  caraway. 

Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together,  pour  the  boiling  water 

on  the  sugar  and  let  stand  until  lukewarm,  then  add  the 
other  ingredients.  — Mrs.  Secor. 


370 


WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


OATMEAL  COOKIES. 


1  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  butter, 

2  eggs, 

1  cup  sour  milk, 
f  teaspoon  soda, 
1  small  teaspoon  salt. 

Drop  from  spoon  and  bake.    — Mrs.  E.  N.  Seward. 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  cup  currants  or  raisins, 
chopped  fine, 

2  cups  flour, 
2  cups  oatmeal. 


OATMEAL  COOKIES. 


1  cup  sugar, 
J  cup  butter, 

2  eggs, 

1  cup  dates,  chopped, 


3  cups  oatmeal, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
f  cup  flour  (scant), 
Pinch  of  salt. 

—Flora  Sette. 


OATMEAL  COOKIES. 


1  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  butter 

2  eggs, 

J  teaspoon  soda, 
1  teaspoon  salt. 


4  tablespoons  sweet  milk, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
i  cup  currants, 

2  cups  flour, 

2  cups  oatmeal. 
— Mrs.  John  Conrad. 


COOKIES.  371 


OATMEAL  COOKIES. 

1  cup  lard,  3  cups  oatmeal, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

§  cup  water,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

l^lour  to  roll  thin ;  cut  like  ginger  snaps. 

—Mrs.  H.  F.  Shadbolt. 


OATMEAL  COOKIES. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  oatmeal, 

1  cup  shortening,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2  eggs;  salt,  1  cup  nuts,  chopped, 

1  teaspoon  soda  in  1  cup  raisins,  chopped, 

2  cups  flour,  7  tablespoons  sweet  milk. 

—Mrs.  F.  L.  Oliver. 


OLD-FASHIONED  COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda  in 

2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
2  eggs  (unbeaten).               Flour  to  mix  soft. 

Stir  together  lightly,  roll,  sprinkle  sugar  over,  cut  and 
bake.  —Mrs.  J.  Burckardt. 


372  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

OLD  GERMAN  COOKIES. 

2  cups  butter,  ^  teaspoon  soda  in 

4  cups  sugar,  f  cup  sour  milk, 

4  eggs,  Flour  to  roll  soft. 

— Mrs.  Fred  Krueger. 

SOUR  CREAM  COOKIES. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda, 
J  cup  lard  or  butter,  Flavor  to  taste, 

1  cup  sour  cream.  Flour  to  make  stiff. 

— Mrs.  M.  C.  Tolzman. 

SUNSHINE  COOKIES. 

3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
I  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour;  flavoring. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff  on  a  platter,  then  add  yolks, 
beat  thoroughly,  sift  in  sugar,  beat,  then  add  flour  containing 
baking  powder  very  lightly,  drop  from  spoon  on  pan  and 
bake.  — Mrs.  W.  N.  Hamilton. 

SUGAR  COOKIES. 

IJ  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

1  cup  lard,  2  teaspoons  soda, 

1  egg,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Flour  to  roll  soft  as  can  be  handled. 

— Mrs.  Hobson. 


COOKIES 


373 


SWEET  COOKIES. 


1  cup  sugar, 

J  cup  butter, 

3  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  leman. 

Add  beaten  whites  last, 


i  teaspoon  soda, 
i  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
1  cup  cornstarch, 
Flour  to  roll  soft. 

—Mary  O'Connell. 


VANILLA  COOKIES. 


1  cup  butter  and 

2  cups  sugar,  creamed, 

1  cup  cold  water, 

2  eggs, 


1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

2  teaspoons  vanilla, 
Flour,  mix  very  stiff. 

— Minnie  Wilmot. 


WHITE  COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter  and  Nutmeg  flavor, 

2  cups  sugar,  creamed,         2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

3  eggs,  beaten.  Flour  to  mix  soft. 

Put  a  raisin  on  the  top  of  each  cooky  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.  — Mrs.  W.  P.  Rix. 


374  WEST   BEND   COQK  BOOK, 


Candy. 


'Sweets  to  the  sweet/ 


BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  ' 

1  cup  molasses,  ^  teaspoon  soda. 

J  cup  butter, 
Boil  together,  stir  frequently  to  prevent  burning  and  as 
soon  as  the  syrup  will  snap  when  tested  in  cold  water  remove 
from  the  fire  and  flavor  to  taste;  pour  one  inch  thick  on 
buttered  tins  and  check  into  squares  with  a  sharp  knife. 

— Elva  Sievers. 

CARAMELS. 

1  cup  syrup,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

1  cup  white  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  4  ounces  chocolate. 
1  cup  milk. 
Boil  together  one  hour.  — Mrs.  Eliza  WeiL 


376  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

CARAMELS. 

IJ  cups  brown  sugar,  1  even  tablespoon  butter, 

I  cup  milk,  2  squares  Baker's  chocolate. 

— Miss  Anna  Klumb. 

COCOANUT  CARAMELS. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

2  cups  cocoanut,  3  whites  of  eggs. 

Mix  the  sugar,  cocoanut  and  flour  together,  then  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very  light.  Grease  white  letter 
paper,  drop  the  mixture  on  it,  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  — Mrs.  Sophie  Bordoe. 

COCOANUT   CANDY. 

2  cups  cocoanut,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  whites  of  eggs. 

Mould  in  little  balls,  place  on  buttered  paper  and  dry  in 
a  slow  oven.  — Harriet  Hams. 

CREAM  CANDY. 
Boil  two  cups  of  cream  and  three  and  one-quarter  pounds 
of  granulated  sugar  until  it  waxes  when  tried  in  cold  water; 
then  take  from  the  stove  and  put  in  bowls  to  cool.  When  it 
has  cooled  sufficiently  to  bear  the  finger  in  it,  beat  with  a 
spoon  until  it  creams  and  can  be  handled.     Knead  it  on  a 


CANDY.  377 

plate  like  bread;  after  this  it  can  be  divided^  different  flavors 
added,  and  used  as  the  foundation  of  any  kind  of  candy  de- 
sired. — Louise  Silberzahn. 

CREAM  CANDY. 

,  3  pounds  sugar,  1  teacup  water, 

2  tablespoons  vinegar,  Vanilla  flavor. 

Boil  granulated  sugar,  vinegar  and  water  together  until 
brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water,  flavor,  cool  and  pull.  — E.  ]\I 

CREAM  CANDIES. 
Boil  four  cups  granulated  sugar  and  one  cup  water  with- 
out stirring  until  it  begins  to  thread;  take  from  stove  and 
let  stand  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  stir  until  white  and 
too  stiff  to  handle  with  a  spoon.  Add  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
while  stirring,  then  knead  like  dough  until  cool.  (To  pre- 
vent the  outside  from  crusting  while  moulding,  cover  with  a 
napkin  wrung  out  of  cold  water.)  This  is  the  foundation  or 
fondant.     Varieties : 

1.  Remove  the  stones  from  dates;  fill  with  the  fondant, 
press  sides  together  and  roll  in  granulated  sugar. 

2.  On  little  balls   (moulded  by  rolling  in  the  hands) 
press  an  almond,  the  half  of  a  walnut  or  pecan. 

3.  Knead  into  a  part  of  the  fondant  as  much  shredded 
cocoanut  as  desired,  then  mould  and  roll  in  cocoanut. 


378  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

4.  Chop  together  dates  and  figs.  Take  part  of  the 
fondant  and  flatten  on  a  plate  (dusted  with  powdered  sugar) 
until  about  six  inches  in  length  and  three  inches  in  width. 
Then  mould  enough  of  the  chopped  fruit  to  make  a  roll  of 
the  same  length  and  the  thickness  of  a  pencil.  Place  on  the 
strip  of  fondant,  turn  the  edges  together  and  roll  until  round 
and  smooth.  Then  cut  with  a  knife  into  pieces  one-half  an 
inch  in  width. 

5.  By  mixing  equal  quantities  of  the  fondant  and 
chopped  fruit  little  fruit  balls  may  be  made. 

6.  By  pouring  a  few  drops  of  water  on  one-half  tea- 
spoon red  sugar,  or  on  a  few  little  red  peppermint  drops,  and 
mixing  a  very  little  of  this  with  the  fondant,  it  may  be  tinted 
pink;  also,  by  working  in  grated  Baker's  sweet  chocolate  a 
pretty  brown  may  be  obtained. 

7.  Take  three  portions  of  the  fondant,  color  one  brown 
and  one  pink,  flatten  the  white  portion  on  a  plate,  dusted 
with  powdered  sugar;  on  this  place  the  pink  an.d  then  the 
brown.     Cut  into  squares, 

8.  For  making  chocolate  drops,  let  the  balls  made  of 
the  plain  or  pink  fondant  stand  over  night.  Then  stick  a 
toothpick  or  hatpin  into  each  and  dip  into  sweet  chocolate 
until  thoroughly  coated.  The  grated  chocolate  is  melted  by 
placing  it  over  a  steaming  teakettle.  — Anna  Gossel. 


CANDY.  379 


COCOANUT  PUFFS. 

2  cups  cocoanut,  2  tablespoons  flour  or 

1  cup  sugar,  cornstarch. 

2  whites  of  eggs,  beaten, 

Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  quickly. — Emma  Picl- 

FRENCH  CREAM  CANDY. 

Add  to  the  unbeaten  whites  of  two  eggs  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  cream,  milk  or  cold  water;  flavor,  then  stir  in  sifted 
confectioners'  sugar  until  stiff  enough  to  mould  into  shape. 
This  is  a  good  foundation  for  all  varieties  of  French  creams. 

—A.  L. 

FRUIT  CANDY. 
1  cup  molasses,  IJ  cups  currants, 

1^  cups  sugar,  i  cup  raisins, 

i  cup  butter,  1^  cups  mixed  nuts, 

i  cup  figs.  Little  citron. 

Chop  the  raisins,  figs  and  citron  together,  chop  the  nuts, 
not  too  fine,  wash  and  dry  the  currants.  Boil  the  molasses 
and  sugar  together  until  it  will  harden  in  cold  water,  then 
take  from  the  stove,  stir  in  the  butter,  fruit  and  nuts  and  pour 
thick  into  buttered  pans.    Delicious  if  made  right. 

— Mrs.  J.  E.  Brayton. 


380  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

FUDGES. 

4  cup  grated  chocolate,         ^  cup  milk  or  cream, 
2  cups  granulated  sugar,      Butter,  size  of  egg. 
Boil  twenty  minutes,  after  removing  from  the  stove,  add 
vanilla  to  taste  and  pour  on  buttered  tins. — Geo.  E.  Ott. 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGES. 

i  cake  Baker's  chocolate,      Butter,  size  of  walnut, 
1  cup  milk,  2  cups  sugar. 

Grate  the  chocolate,  stir  together  in  the  order  given  and 
make  like  vanilla  fudges.  —Harriet  Hams. 


COCOA  FUDGES   (Southern). 

1  cup  white  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cocoa, 

1  cup  milk,  Butter,  size  of  walnut. 

Boil  the  sugar,  milk  and  cocoa  together  and  when  nearly 
done  add  the  butter.  Boil  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water,  remove  from  the  fire,  stir  until  it 
begins  to  stiffen,  then  turn  into  a  buttered  pan  and  cut  in 
squares.  —Nina  Miller. 


CANDY.  381 


COCOANUT  FUDGES. 
4  cups  sugar,  2  cups  cocoanut, 

J  cup  butter.  Vanilla  flavor. 

1^  cups  cream, 
Boil  sugar,  butter,  cream  and  vanilla  to  the  soft  ball 
degree;  just  before  removing  from  the  fire  add  the  cocoanut, 
stir  in  a  cool  place  until  it  hardens,  then  put  an  inch  thick 
into  buttered  pans  and  cut  into  squares. 

DOUBLE  FUDGE. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  squares  chocolate, 

i  cup  cream,  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Boil  seven  minutes,  beat  well  and  pour  into  a  buttered 
pan;  then  mix — 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  Butter^  size  of  walnut, 

4  cup  cream,  1  cup  rolled  nuts. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  ten  minutes,  then  beat,  ponr  over  the  fudge  in  th.e 
pan  and  cut  in  squares.  — Minnie  Stoffelen. 

SMITH  COLLEGE  FUDGES. 

2  cups  sugar,  f  cup  milk'  or  cream, 

J  cup  butter,  3  tablespoons  molasses, 

1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  squares  chocolate. 

Cook  sugar,  molasses,  milk  and  butter  till  it  comes  to 
a  boil,  then  add  the  chocolate,  cut  fine,  and  cook  till  it 
strings,  stirring  all  the  time;  remove  from  the  fire  and  when 
partially  cool  add  vanilla,  turn  into  well  greased  pan  and  cut 
in  squares.     ^  — Dorothy  Webster. 


WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


VANILLA  FUDGES. 

2  cups  sugar.  Butter,  size  of  walnut, 

1  cup  cream,  Vanilla  flavor. 

Creaxii  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  cream,  boil  until 
it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Before 
removing  from  the  lire  add  the  vanilla.  Stir  in  a  cool  place 
until  it  hardens,  then  put  an  inch  thick  into  a  buttered  pan, 
and  cut  into  squares.  — Harriet  Harns. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

1  pound  gum  arable,  1  pound  refined  sugar, 

1  quart  water,  8  whites  of  eggs. 

Dissolve  the  gum.  arable  in  the  water,  strain,  add  the 
sugar,  place  over  the  fire,  stir  constantly  until  the  sugar  dis- 
solves and  the  mixture  becomes  the  consistency  of  honey, 
then  add  gradually  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  stir- 
ring all  the  time  until  it  does  not  adhere  to  the  fingers  when 
touched;  pour  into  a  pan  dusted  with  cornstarch  and  when 
cool  divide  into  small  squares.        — Mrs.  P.  W.  Hams. 

MAESHMALLOWS. 

Pour  sixteen  tablespoons  of  water  on  one  package  of  Knox 
gelatine.  Boil  four  cups  of  sugar  and  twelve  tablespoons  of 
water  until  it  threads,  then  pour  slowly  over  the  dissolved 
gelatine  and  beat  twenty-five  minutes.  Let  stand  twenty-four 
hours,  then  cut  in  squares  and  roll  in  one  tablespoon  of 
powdered  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  sifted  to- 
gether. —Mrs.  C.  W.  Smith. 


CANDY.  383 


MEXICAN  CREAMS. 

3  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  nuts,  chopped, 

1  cup  cream,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Butter,  size  of  walnut, 

—Mary  Tetzlaff. 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

Boil  two  cups  New  Orleans  molasses  and  one  cup  of 
sugar  until  it  threads  from  the  spoon,  add  one  teaspoon  soda 
just  before  removing  from  the  stove;  pour  on  buttered  tins 
and  pull  as  soon  as  cool. 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

1  cup  molasses,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 

2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Small  piece  butter, 

Boil  ten  minutes,  then  cool  enough  to  pull. 

PEANUT  CANDY. 

Shell  and  grind  one  cup  of  peanuts,  not  too  fine,  turn 
them  into  the  colander  and  sift  the  finer  part  onto  the 
moulding  board;  then  put  one  cup  of  sugar  in  an  iron  spider 
over  the  fire  and  stir  constantly;  when  dissolved,  add  the 
coarser  peanuts  and  turn  the  mixture  onto  the  peanut  flour 
on  the  moulding  board,  roll  very  thin  with  a  well-floured 
rolling  pin  and  mark  in  squares.  ■ — Harriet  Hams. 


384  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

PEANUT  CANDY. 

Put  two  cups  of  white  sugar  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  stir 
constantly  until  dissolved,  then  add  one  cup  of  chopped  pea- 
nuts, turn  at  once  into  a  buttered  dish  and  cut  in  squares. 

— H.  E.  C. 

PEANUT  CANDY. 

2  cups  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

^  cup  water,  1  teaspoon  butter, 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water,  add  the  cream  of  tartar  which 
has  been  dissolved  in  cool  water,  and  cook  until  brittle  when 
tried  in  cold  water,  then  add  the  butter,  cook  four  minutes 
more  and  pour  over  the  peanuts  in  a  buttered  dish. 

— Mrs.  Brayton. 

PENUCHI. 

2  cups  light  brown  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

sugar.  Butter,  size  of  walnut, 

1  cup  white  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts. 

Cook  the  sugar,  milk  and  butter  to  soft  ball  degree, 
stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  the  fire,  beat  two  minutes, 
then  add  the  nut  meats  and  beat  until  stiff.  Pour  into  a 
buttered  dish  and  cut  in  squares.        — Clarinda  Sievers. 


CANDY.  385 


PEPPERMINT  CPtEAMS. 

3  pounds  granulated  ^  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

sugar,  Peppermint  flavor. 

1  cup  water. 
Boil  the  sugar,  water  and  cream  of  tartar  rapidly  to  the 
soft  ball  degree  without  stirring,  then  remove  from  the  fire, 
let  cool,  add  peppermint,  wintergreen  or  any  flavoring  de- 
sired, and  stir  in  the  same  dirention  with  a  wooden  spoon 
until  perfectly  smooth  and  creamy;  drop  on  oiled  paper  or 
glass.  If  the  candy  grains,  add  a  little  water,  and  boil 
again.  — Contributed. 

SAUER  KRAUT  CANDY. 

Cook  one  pound  brown  sugar  and  enough  milk  to 
moisten,  for  about  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time,  then 
add  one-quarter  pound  cocoanut,  stir  well  and  turn  on 
buttered  paper.  — Isabella  Burckhardt. 

SEA  FOAM. 

3  cups  sugar,  2  egg  whites, 

'}  cup  Karo  syrup,  i  teaspoon  salt, 

f  cup  water,  1  cup  rolled  nuts. 

Boil  sugar,  syrup  and  water  to  the  ball  degree,  then  pour 
slowly  over  the  egg  whites  (which  have  been  beaten  with  the 
salt  until  frothy),  stirring  all  the  time;  beat  well,  then  add 
the  nuts,  beat  until  nearly  cold,  then  drop  from  the  spoon 
onto  white  pgiper.  — Mrs.  G.  Knoller. 


386  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

TAFFY. 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  Butter  size  of  walnut. 

^  cup  water, 
Boil  until  it  hardens  in  water.  — Adele  Silberzahn. 


TAFFY. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 

1  cup  molasses,  i  teaspoon  soda. 

I  cup  butter. 
Boil  until  it  hardens  in  water  and  flavor  to  taste. 

— Miss  Anna  Klumb. 


PULLED  TAFFY. 

3  cups  granulated  ^  cup  vinegar, 

sugar,  Butter,  size  of  walnut, 

i  cup  water, 

If  vinegar  is  strong,  use  two-thirds  water  and  one- third 
vinegar.  Boil  the  sugar,  water  and  vinegar  together  until 
half  done,  then  add  the  butter  and  stir  until  mixed  well. 
When  it  snaps  when  tested  in  cold  water  it  is  done.  Pour 
on  buttered  tins,  let  cool,  flavor  and  pull. — Elva  Sievers. 


CANDTf.  387 


PULLED  TAFFY. 

2  cups  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

1  cup  water,  Vanilla  flavor. 

Boil  the  sugar,  water  and  cream  tartar  until  it  hairs, 
then  flavor,  turn  on  buttered  plates  and  when  cool  enough 
to  handle  pull.  — Louise  Silberzahn. 

MACAROONS. 

1  pound  almonds,  IJ  pounds  powdered  sugar, 

8  whites  of  eggs,  1  vanilla  bean. 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  pound  the 
bean  and  one  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  together  fine;  blanch, 
dry,  grate  and  pound  the  almonds,  moisten  with  the  unbeaten 
whites  of  two  eggs,  then  stir  all  together  an  hour,  drop  on 
tins  lined  with  buttered  or  waxed  paper  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven.  — Miss  Thecla  Pick. 

ALMOND  MACAROONS. 

1  pound  grated  almonds,      7  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 
1  pound  sugar,  stiff. 

Roll  in  little  balls  in  greased  palms  of  the  hands  and 
bake  on  buttered  tins.  — Agnes  M.  Haase. 


388  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

HICKORY  NUT  MACAROONS. 

1  cup  hickory  nuts,  2  eggs, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour. 

Pound  the  nut  meats  to  a  paste,  mix  with  the  other 
ingredients,  drop  from  a  teaspoon  on  greased  paper  and  bake. 

— Miss  Amanda  Franckenberg. 

KISSES. 

To  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  add  a  cup  of 
sugar,  with  a  little  flavoring;  add  chocolate  for  chocolate 
kisses.     Bake  on  waxed  tins.       — Mrs.  Thomas  Bruhy. 

COCOANUT  KISSES. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,         2  cups  cocoanut, 

2  whites  of  eggs,  beaten,       2  teaspoons  cornstarch. 
Beat  all  together,  drop  on  buttered  paper  and  bake. 

— Mrs.  Val.  Wollner. 

SUGAR  KISSES. 

1  pound  powdered  sugar,      5  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 
1  teaspoon  lemon  extract,         stiff. 
Drop  on  white  paper  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  — Miss  Amanda  Franckenberg. 


CANDY  389 

CRACKER  JACK. 

J  cup  syrup,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  sugar,  6  quarts  corn,  popped  . 

1  teaspoon  vinegar, 

Cook  the  syrup,  sugar  and  vinegar  until  it  will  crack 
when  tried  in  cold  water,  then  add  the  soda,  stir  well  and 
pour  the  foamy  mixture  over  the  com.  Nice  also  with  pea- 
nuts added.  — Mrs.  Joseph  Peine. 

POPCORN  BALLS. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar,      Flavor, 

1  cup  water,  8  quarts  popcorn. 

Pop  the  corn  and  remove  all  the  hard  kernels,  boil  the 
sugar  and  water  until  it  hairs,  add  the  flavor,  pour  over  the 
com  and  form  into  balls. 

SALTED  ALMONDS. 

Blanch  the  almonds  by  pouring  over  them  boiling  water, 
which  loosens  the  skins  so  they  may  be  easily  slipped  off.  To 
one  cup  of  nuts  take  one  teaspoon  olive  oil  and  one  teaspoon 
salt,  stir  through  the  nuts  thoroughly  and  brown  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Stir  frequently  to  prevent  scorching.  Peanuts 
and  walnuts  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

— Mrs.  Oilman. 


390  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


Beverages 


The  cup  that  cheers.' 


COFFEE. 


One  and  one-half  quarts  boiling  water,  one-quarter 
pound  best  ground  coffee,  one  egg.  Break  the  egg  into  the 
coffee  and  stir  until  it  is  entirely  absorbed,  then  put  into  the 
boiling  water  and  let  it  boil  three  minutes.  Strain  through 
flannel  and  serve.  — H.  Kinsley. 

COFFEE  FOR  ONE  HUNDRED. 

Five  pounds  ground  coffee,  six  eggs,  and  cold  water 
enough  to  wet  it  all.  Divide  into  four  parts,  and  put  it  into 
bags,  filling  the  bags  not  half  full.  Put  two  of  the  bags  into 
thirty  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Keep  at  boiling  heat  for  over 
half  an  hour,  shaking  the  bags  frequently;  then  bring  to  a 
boil,  and  let  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  remove  these  bags, 
put  in  the  other  two,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes;  then  put  in  a 
quart  of  cold  water,  keep  it  from  boiling,  and  it  is  ready  to 
serve. 


392  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

VIENNA  COFFEE. 

Use  Mocha  and  Java  coffee  in  equal  parts  (one  tablespoon 
to  each  person),  and  mix  well  with  one  egg.  Pour  half  as 
much  boiling  water  over  the  coffee  as  needed.  Let  the  coffee 
froth,  then  stir  it  down  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes;  set  it 
back  on  the  stove  five  or  ten  minutes  and  add  the  rest  of 
the  water.  To  one-quarter  cup  of  boiled  milk  add  three 
tablespoons  of  whipped  cream  and  fill  with  coffee.  Or  add 
the  white  of  egg,  foamed,  to  one  pint  of  cream,  and  use  the 
same  quantity  to  a  cup.  — Mrs.  Gillett. 

TEA. 

One  teaspoon  best  tea  to  one  cup  water.  Pour  boiling 
water  into  the  teapot  till  heated  through,  empty  it,  put  in  the 
tea,  pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  serve  in  three  minutes. 
Fresh  water  should  always  be  used,  and  should  never  be 
boiled  over  three  minutes  before  pouring  on  the  tea  or  coffee. 

ICED  TEA. 

Steep  the  tea  for  a  few  hours  in  cold  water,  using  a  little 
more  tea  than  for  the  hot  beverage.     Serve  ice  cold. 

RUSSIAN  TEA. 

Serve  lemon  juice  instead  of  cream  in  the  tea. 

— H.  Kinsley. 


BEVERAGES.  393 


CHOCOLATE. 

Melt  one-half  cake  Baker's  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler, 
add  slowly  one  pint  of  water  and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring 
continually.  Add  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk  and,  when 
quite  hot,  a  pint  of  cream.  When  all  is  hot,  stir  in  the 
foamed  white  of  an  egg  and  serve. 

French  Method — As  a  pint  of  water  begins  to  boil,  add 
one  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  up,  add 
one  pint  of  good  milk  and  boil.  Serve  with  a  spoonful  of 
whipped  cream  on  each  cup.. 

ICED  CHOCOLATE. 

Melt  four  ounces  sweet  chocolate  and  one-half  cup  sugar 
(scant)  in  one-half  pint  water,  stir  until  smooth,  then  add 
gradually  one  quart  hot  cream;  beat  well.  When  cool,  add 
one  teaspoon  vanilla.     Strain  and  freeze. 

COCOA. 

Smooth  six  tablespoons  cocoa  in  a  little  cold  water  and 
stir  into  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Boil  twenty  minutes,  add 
one  pint  milk  and  boil  five  minutes  more,  then  add  sugar  to 
taste. 

Another  Way. — Put  three  tablespoons  of  cocoa  in  a  pint 
of  water,  let  boil  slowly  an  hour,  then  pour  it  over  sugar  and 
serve  hot  wi^h  toast.  — Mrs.  F.  E.  Scott. 

26 


394  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK, 


EXCELLENT  TONIC. 

Fresh  milk,  hot  as  can  be  heated  without  boiling.  Drink 
while  hot;  a  little  salt  may  be  added. 

GINGER  DRINK. 

A  palatable  beverage  can  be  made  by  stirring  one  cup 
vinegar,  three  tablespoons  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  ginger 
with  one  quart  water.  Cork  tight  in  a  jug  and  it  will  keep 
cool  several  hours. 

GRAPE  JUICE. 

Cover  Concord  grapes,  after  removing  the  stems  and 
washing  thoroughly  in  a  colander,  with  cold  water,  then  boil 
until  tender.  Press  the  juice  through  a  wire  sieve;  then  add 
one  cup  of  sugar  to  every  three  quarts  of  juice  and  place  over 
the  fire  just  long  enough  to  come  to  a  boil.  Do  not  let  the 
grapes  cook  too  long  in  the  first  place,  or  any  more  than  boil 
up  the  last  time,  or  the  flavor  will  be  impaired.  Bottle  hot. 
Bottles  with  patent  stops  can  be  procured.  For  invalids  this 
should  be  diluted  one-half.  — Francis  Dunham. 


UNFERMENTED  GRAPE  JUICE. 

Cover  grapes  with  water,  boil  until  tender,  strain,  add 
one  pint  of  sugar  to  three  pints  of  juice,  boil  ten  minutes  and 
can  while  hot.  — Mrs.  Curtis. 


BEVERAGES.  395 


LEMOXADE. 

One  large  lemon,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  one  quart  ice 
cold  water;  peel  and  cut  the  lemon  in  two,  extract  all  the 
juice  with  a  squeezer,  drop  the  pulp  into  a  pitcher,  stir  well 
together,  strain  and  add  one  firm  lemon,  sliced  very  thin. 
This  makes  four  glasses. 

MILK  SHAKE. 

Beat  one  egg  with  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  for  each  person, 
add  two-thirds  goblet  shaved  ice  and  milk,  shake  thoroughly 
until  the  ice  is  nearly  melted.  When  ready  to  serve,  grate 
nutmeg  over  the  top. 

NECTAR. 

Juice  of  three  oranges,  juice  of  three  lemons,  one-half 
the  juice  of  one  small  can  of  pineapple,  sweeten  to  taste,  add 
crushed  ice  and  pour  over  the  whole  one  quart  of  water. 

STRAWBERRY  NECTAR. 

To  one  quart  mashed  strawberries,  add  one  lemon,  two 
tablespoons  orange  juice  and  three  pints  of  water;  let  stand 
three  hours,  strain  on  three-quarters  pound  of  powdered 
sugar.     Stir  until  dissolved.     Serve  ice  cold.     Delicious. 

— Mrs.  F.  Lauer. 

OATMEAL  DRINK. 

T^vo  tablespoons  raw  oatmeal  to  one  quart  of  water;  set 
two  hours  in  a  cool  place,  then  drain  oif  as  it  is  wanted.  A 
very  nourishing  drink.  —Susie  Hawkins. 


396  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


ORANGEADE. 
Boil  four  quarts  of  water  with  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar, 
skim,  let  it  get  cold,  then  add  the  juice  of  eight  oranges  and 
the  rinds  of  two  rubbed  in  sugar.  — Agnes  Dawes. 

PINEAPPLE  VINEGAR. 

Cover  sliced  fruit  with  vinegar,  let  stand  three  or  four 
days,  then  mash  and  strain  through  a  cloth.  To  three  quarts 
of  juice  add  five  pounds  of  sugar,  and  boil  ten  minutes. 
Skim  well;  when  cool  bottle.  Any  highly  flavored  fruit  may 
be  prepared  the  same  way. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Put  ripe  red  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover  with 
cider  vinegar;  let  stand  twelve  hours;  then  pour  the  vinegar 
over  a  gallon  of  fresh  berries,  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Allow  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  one  pint  of  the  juice;  boil 
three  minutes,  skim  and  bottle.  When  wanted,  add  one-half 
glass  of  juice  to  one  glass  of  water. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB. 
Cover  three  quarts  of  ripe  red  raspberries  with  one  quart 
of  cider  vinegar;  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours  or  longer. 
Strain  and  add  to  each  pint  of  juice  one  pound  of  white 
sugar.    Boil  half  an  hour,  skim,  bottle  and  seal. 

— Mrs.  S.  S.  Barney. 

SYRUP  OF  VINEGAR. 

Two  quarts  of  vinegar  and  one  pound  of  sugar  boiled  to 
a  clear  syrup.  Bottle.  Add  one  or  two  tablespoons  to  a  glass 
of  water.  —Mrs.  A.  W. 


Fruit  Canning,  Etc. 


'Trifles  make  perfection,  and  perfection  is  no  trifle." 


TO  PEESERVE  BERRIES  WHOLE. 

Fruit  should  not  be  too  ripe.  Pick  over  as  soon  as  gath- 
ered ;  wash,  if  absolutely  necessary,  and  put  in  glass  jars,  until 
each  is  two-thirds  full.  Put  into  a  porcelain  kettle  one  cup 
water  and  one  pound  of  sugar,  for  every  two  pounds  of  fruit, 
and  let  come  slowly  to  a  boil.  Pour  this  syrup  into  the  jars 
over  the  berries,  filling  them  to  the  brim;  then  set  the  jars  in 
a  pot  of  cold  water  on  the  stove  and  let  the  water  boil  and  the 
fruit  become  scalding  hot;  then  lift  them  out  and  seal  per- 
fectly tight. 

TO  CAN  FRUIT. 

Make  a  syrup  for  all  the  fruit  to  can  of  two  parts  sugar 
and  one  part  water.  Skim  well  while  boiling  and  pour  into 
a  crock,  on  back  of  stove,  to  keep  hot.  For  one  can  put  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  syrup  into  kettle.     When  it  boils,  add 


398  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

the  fruit,  one  and  one-half  boxes,  heat  evenly,  and  soon  as 
ready  to  boil,  can  at  once.  Heat  the  glass  jar  and  cover  in 
hot  water;  put  a  silver  tablespoon  in  the  jar,  set  it  on  a  plate, 
fill  with  hot  fruit,  let  it  overflow  to  remove  the  air  bubbles, 
take  out  the  spoon,  and  seal.  This  simple  method  has  given 
satisfaction  for  many  years. 

TO  CAN  FRUIT. 

For  the  syrup  allow  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of 
water  to  each  quart  jar;  put  this  on  the  stove  and  let  just 
come  to  a  boil;  fill  a  jar  with  fresh  fruit,  then  fill  with 
syrup  to  the  brim,  and  put  on  the  covers  without  the  rub- 
bers. Warm  som-e  water  in  the  boiler,  put  slats  on  the  bot- 
tom, set  the  cans  of  fruit  on  the  slats,  let  boil  twelve  minutes, 
then  remove  from  the  boiler,  take  off  the  covers,  put  on  the 
rubbers,  fill  to  overflowing  with  syrup  or  hot  water,  put  on 
the  covers,  seal  tight  and  let  stand  upside  down  over  night. 

— Mrs.  Fred  Althaus. 

FRUIT  JELLY.     (French  Process.) 

Allow  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice. 
Boil  the  juice  separately.  Put  the  sugar  in  shallow  pans  and 
heat  in  the  oven,  to  prevent  burning.  When  juice  begins  to 
boil,  note  the  time,  and  in  twenty  minutes  add  the  hot  sugar, 
and  stir  rapidly  until  dissolved.  Let  come  to  a  boil;  then 
remove  the  kettle  instantly  from  the  fire.  Roll  the  glasses 
in  hot  water  and  fill  with  the  scalding  liquid.     The  jelly  will 


FRUIT  CANNING.  399 


form  within  an  hour.  When  cold,  lay  on  it  a  piece  of  writ- 
ing paper,  cut  to  fit  jelly,  first  immersed  in  the  white  of  egg, 
and  paste  (with  white  of  egg)  another  paper  over  the  glass. 
Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  or  in  a  dry  current  of  air. 

FEUIT  JUICES. 

May  be  canned  same  as  fruit;  press  the  fruit,  strain  as 
for  jelly,  heat,  add  one  pint  sugar  to  three  pints  juice  and 
can  in  pint  cans.  This  is  very  nice  to  use  in  mince  pies, 
sauces,  fruit  cake,  plum  puddings,  etc.  Two  or  three  table- 
spoonsful,  added  to  a  glass  of  water,  makes  a  delicious  drink. 

— Mrs.  W.  D.  Evans. 

APPLES  AND  CEANBEEEIES. 

3  quarts  water,  6  pounds  apples. 

5  pounds  sugar,  8  pounds  cranberries, 

Boil  the  water  and  sugar  to  a  syrup,  add  the  peeled, 
sliced  apples  and  cook  until  tender,  then  add  the  cranberries 
and  boil  five  minutes.  Seal  tight  in  glass  cans.  Grapes  may 
be  put  up  with  apples  in  the  same  way. 

— Mrs.  Jacob  Haverkorn. 

CANNED  PINEAPPLE. 

1  quart  pineapple  1  cup  sugar, 

(sliced  and  chopped),       1^  cups  water. 
Boil  sugar  and  water  ten  minutes;  put  in  fruit  and  let 
come  to  a  boil.  — Agnes  M.  Haase. 


400  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

CANNED  PEACHES. 

1  cup  vinegar,  4  cups  sugar, 

2  cups  water,  20  peaches. 

Wash  the  peaches  in  cold  water  (using  a  cloth)  ;  then 
cook  all  together  until  the  peaches  can  be  pierced  by  a  broom 
splint;  can  carefully.     Will  keep  several  years. 

— Mrs.  G.  W.  Bellinger. 

CANNED  PEACHES. 

Peel,  remove  the  pits,  cut  in  halves,  put  on  a  plate  in  a 
steamer  (the  steamer  may  be  half  filled)  and  steam  over 
boiling  water  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them  easily.  In  the 
meantime  prepare  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  in  the 
proportion  of  a  quart  of  water  to  a  pint  of  sugar.  Let  boil 
and  skim.  Fill  the  can  with  peaches,  pour  over  the  hot  syrup 
until  the  can  will  hold  no  more,  seal  at  once.  Peaches,  either 
whole,  halved  or  quartered,  may  be  boiled  until  tender,  instead 
of  steaming,  if  preferred. 

CANNED  PEAES. 

Steam  or  boil  whole,  halved  or  quartered  pears  until  ten- 
der. (Steaming  is  preferable.)  Prepare  the  syrup  as  for 
peaches  and  if  the  pears  are  steamed  add  to  the  boiling  syrup  a 
moment,  then  dip  into  cans,  pour  syrup  over  and  seal. 

— Mrs.  Frances  E.  Owens.  . 


FRUIT  CANNING.  401 


PIEPLANT  AXD  BLACKBEEKIES. 

12  pounds  blackberries,         9  pounds  sugar, 
6  pounds  pieplant,  -1  quarts  water. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  to  a  syrup,  add  the  sliced  pie- 
plant, cook  ten  minutes,  add  the  blackberries,  boil  five  min- 
utes, and  seal  while  hot.  Strawberries  or  blueberries  are  fine 
put  up  in  the  same  way  with  pieplant. 

— Mrs.  Jacob  Haverkorn. 

PIEPLANT  AND  PINEAPPLE. 

Pare,  slice  and  cook  six  pineapples  until  tender,  cook  pie- 
plant separately,  then  put  the  pineapples  and  pieplant  to- 
gether in  the  proportion  of  two  cups  of  pieplant  to  one  cup 
of  pineapple ;  add  four  cups  of  sugar  and  can  while  hot.  No 
water  should  be  used  in  cooking  either  the  pieplant  or  pine- 
apple.    This  makes  four  quarts  and  a  pint. — Mrs.  Orson. 

CRANBERRIES. 

Put  two  pints  of  cranberries,  two  cups  of  granulated 
sugar  and  one  cup  of  water  in  a  granite  stewpan;  let  come 
to  a  boil,  then  boil  ten  minutes,  closely  covered,  without  stir- 
ring; remove  the  scum.    Will  jelly  when  cool. 

CANNED  STRAWBERRIES   (UNCOOKED).     . 

Wash  eight  cups  of  fresh  strawberries,  add  six  cups  of 
sugar,  mash  togetlicr  thoroughly  with  the  potato  maslier  and 
can  without  heating.     Makes  fine  winter  shortcake. 

— Mrs.  Fournier. 


402  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


CANNED  TOMATOES. 

Peel  and  cut  small.  Cook  in  a  preserving  kettle  without 
water  until  done  sufficiently  for  the  table.  Seal  hot.  Very 
nice  for  soups  in  the  winter.  — Miss  Westgate. 

CHERKY  RELISH. 

5  pounds  cherries,  2  pounds  raisins, 

5  pounds  sugar,  2  oranges. 

Pit  the  cherries,  chop  the  raisins;  boil  the  cherries  one- 
half  hour  then  add  sugar  and  raisins  and  boil  one-half  hour 
longer;  just  before  removing  from  the  fire  add  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  the  oranges. 

—  Mrs.  John  Hanchett,  Sheboygan. 

CURRANT  RELISH. 

5  pounds  fresh  currants,      5  pounds  loaf  sugar, 
2  pounds  seeded  raisins.       Spices  to  taste. 

— Mrs.  Frances  E.  Ott. 

CURRANT  RELISH. 

5  pounds  ripe  currants,        5  pounds  white  sugar, 
5  oranges  (juice  and  1  pound  chopped  raisins, 

chopped  rind). 
Cook  slowly  one  and  one-half  hours. 

— Mrs.  Mayhew. 


FRUIT  CANNING.  403 


GEAPE  CATSUP. 
7  pounds  grapes,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 

3^  pounds  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cloves, 

li  pints  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  allspice, 

1  tablespoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  cayenne. 

Boil  the  grapes,  press  through  a  colander  to  remove 
seeds  and  skins ;  boil  the  pulp  with  the  remaining  ingredients 
slowly  until  thick ;  then  bottle  and  seal. 

GRAPE  JELLY. 

Cook  crabapples  ten  minutes,  then  add  an  equal  quantity 
of  grapes,  cook  together  until  tender,  then  press  through  a 
sieve;  to  the  juice  add  an  equal  measure  of  sugar  and  cook 
until  thick.  •  —Mrs.  John  Roob. 

GREEN  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Stem  the  grapes,  cook  in  just  enough  water  to  keep  from 
burning;  mash  with  a  silver  spoon,  strain,  and,  to  every  pint 
of  juice  allow  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar.  Heat  sugar 
very  hot,  then  pour  the  juice  over  it,  stirring  well.  Fill 
glasses. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

3  boxes  gooseberries,  1  bowl  of  sugar  to 

2  boxes  raspberries,  1  bowl  of  juice. 

Heat  the  berries  together,  mash  and  drain  them,  measure 
the  juice  and  bring  slowly  to  a  boil;  add  sugar,  boil  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes,  then  turn  into  sterilized  glasses  and  put 
covers  (m.  —Mrs.  C.  L.  Sawyer. 


404  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

1  box  raspberries,  1  cup  sugar  to 

2  boxes  gooseberries,  1  cup  juice. 

Heat  berries '  together,  mash  and  turn  into  cheesecloth 
bag  to  drip  (do  not  squeeze)  ;  measure  juice,  bring  slowly 
to  a  boil,  add  sugar,  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then  pour, 
into  sterilized  glasses  and  when  cool  paste  writing  paper  over 
the  top. 

PRESERVED    APPLES. 

One-half  pound  sugar  to  one  pound  apples ;  pare,  quarter 
and  core  apples,  then  place  them  in  alternate  layers  with 
sugar  in  a  jar.  Boil  the  parings  and  turn  the  water  over 
the  apples,  cover  with  plate  and  let  stand  over  night;  in  the 
morning  drain  off  syrup,  heat  to  boiling  point,  pour  over  the 
apples  and  let  stand  twelve  hours;  repeat  this  process  three 
times,  then  heat  the  apples  thoroughly,  add  a  few  whole 
cloves  and  seal  in  glass  jars.  If  sweet  apples  are  used  add 
one  lemon  to  four  pounds  of  apples. 

— Mrs.  J.  N.  Arveson. 


FRUIT   CANNING.  405 


SPICED    CRAB    APPLES. 

4  pounds  sugar,  2  ounces  whole  allspice, 
2  quarts  cider  vinegar,         Crabapples  to  fill  a  two- 

1  ounce  whole  cloves,  gallon  jar. 

2  ounces  stick  cinnamon. 

Tie  the  spices  in  a  muslin  bag.  Steam  the  crab  apples. 
Boil  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  one-half  hour;  then  pour 
the  liquid  over  the  fruit  and  place  the  bag  of  spices  on  the  top. 

— Mrs.  E.  L.  Merwin. 

SPICED    CRAB    APPLES. 

5  pounds  apples,  3  tablespoons  cinnamon, 

3  pounds  sugar,  1  tablespoon  allspice, 
i  pint  vinegar,                      1  tablespoon  pep^  -i-. 
i  tablespoon  salt, 

Weigh  the  crab  apples  after  quartering  and  coring,  boil 
with  sugar  and  a  little  water  for  two  minutes,  then  add  spices 
and  vinegar  and  boil  ten  minutes  more.  Cherries  may  be 
spioed  the  same  way.  — Mrs.  G.  D.  Gould. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

5  pounds  ripe  currants,        1  tablespoon  cloves, 
3  pounds  white  sugar,  1  tablespoon  allspice, 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon,        ^  pint  vinegar, 
1  tablespoon  nutmeg 
Boil  currants  one  hour,  then  add  sugar,  spices  and  vine- 
gar; boil  one-half  hour  longer.  — Mrs.  Joseph  Ott. 


406  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

SPICED   CUKKANTS. 

4  quarts  currants,  1  teaspoon  allspice, 

witliout  stems,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

1  pint  vinegar.  Lemon  rind, 

2  pounds  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Boil  togethtr  until  consistenc}'  of  jelly,  and  put  in  cov- 
ered jars.    Good.  —Mrs.  W.  P.  Rix. 

SPICED   CURRANTS. 

7  pounds  currants,  1  tablespoon  ground  cin- 

4  pounds  sugar,  namon, 

1  pint  good  cider  vinegar.  1  teaspoon  cloves. 
Put  into  kettle  and  boil  until  the  fruit  is  soft,  then 
ykim  out,  putting  it  on  dishes  until  the  syrup  is  boiled  down 
thick.  Ttirn  the  fniit  back  into  the  syrup  again  so  as  to 
heat  it  all  through;  then  seal  it  hot  in  glass  jars  and  put  in 
a  cool,  dark  place.  —Mrs.  Marie  Pick. 

SPICED    GRAPES. 

5  pounds  grapes,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 
4  pounds  brown  sugar,         1  teaspoon  allspice, 

1  pint  vinegar,  Sprinkling  of  pepper. 

1  tablespoon  cloves, 
For  this  purpose  the  late  Isabella  grapes,  not  very  well 
ripened,  are  the  best.  (Weigh  before  picking  from  the  stems.) 
Strip  the  grapes,  one  by  one,  from  the  stems,  "popping*'  the 


FRUIT   CANNING.  407 


pulp  into  one  kettle  and  throwing  the  skins  into  another; 
put  both  kettles  over  the  fire,  adding  just  enough  water  to 
each  to  keep  from  scorching.  As  soon  as  the  seeds  loosen 
from  the  pulp,  press  through  a  colander,  add  the  pulp  to  the 
skins,  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  cook  slowly  three 
or  four  hours,  or  until  quite  thick. 

SPICED  RHUBAEB. 

24  pounds  rhubarb,  1  tablespoon  cloves, 

1  cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

Cut  rhubarb  into  inch  pieces,  put  all  the  ingredients  in 
a  preserving  kettle  and  boil  steadily  one-half  hour.  If  pre- 
ferred, use  less  spices.  — Mrs.  Peter  Baenke. 

SPICED   TOMATOES. 

1  pint  cider  vinegar  J  ounce  cloves, 

4  pounds  brown  sugar,         1  ounce  cinnamon. 
7  pounds  green  tomatoes, 
Tie  spices  in  little  bags;  boil  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices 
until  clear,  then  add  the  whole  tomatoes  (peeled),  and  boil 
two  hours ;  put  in  cans  and  in  each  can  put  a  bag  of  spice. 
.  — Mrs.  A.  Ziminerling. 


408  WEST  BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

KULE  FOR  SWEET  PICKLES. 

4  pounds  fruit,  ^  cup  mixed  spices — 

2  pounds  brown  sugar,  stick  cinnamon,  cassia 

1  pint  vinegar,  buds,  allspice  and  cloves. 

Tie  spices  in  a  bag  and  boil  with  the  vinegar  and  sugar. 
Skim  well;  add  fruit,  cook  until  tender;  skim  out  and  put  in 
stone  jars;  boil  syrup  five  minutes  longer  and  pour  over  the 
fruit;  for  three  mornings  pour  off  the  syrup,  boil  and  pour 
over  the  fruit;  keep  the  bag  of  spices  in  the  syrup. 


RULE  FOR  MARMALADES,  PRESERVES  AND  JAMS. 

Marmalade  is  made  of  the  fruit  pulp  put  through  a  sieve 
and  boiled  with  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  very  slowly  one- 
half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Preserves  are  prepared  with  equal  weights  of  sugar  and 
finiit.  A  syrup  is  made  by  adding  as  little  water  as  possible 
to  the  sugar;  when  it  boils,  skim  until  clear,  then  add  fruit 
and  cook  until  tender. 

Jams  are  usually  made  with  whole,  small  fruits.  Mash 
the  fruit  and  cook  it  in  an  equal  weight  of  sugar. 


FRUIT    CANNING  409 


PLUM   PRESERVES. 

Cut  one  large,  ripe  tomato  in  three  pieces,  add  to  the 
plums,  pour  boiling  water  over  and  boil  till  ready  to  pit; 
then  remove  the  tomato  and  pits  and  add  to  the  plums  an 
equal  measure  of  sugar,  stir  until  it  boils,  then  skim  out  the 
plums,  cook  syrup  till  thick  and  pour  over  the  plums  in  a 
jar.  —Mrs.  G.  D.  Gould. 

GREEN    TOMATO    PRESERVES. 

One  peck  tomatoes,  cut  eacli  in  two;  mix  well  with  six 
pounds  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.  Next  day  drain  off 
juice  and  boil  to  a  syrup.  Add  tomatoes  and  six  lemons, 
sliced,  and  cook  until  transparent — about  two  hours. 

RIPE    TOMATO    PRESERVES. 

Seven  pounds  ripe  tomatoes,  three-quarters  pound  sugar 
to  one  pound  tomatoes.  Let  them  stand  together  over  night; 
in  the  morning  drain  off  the  syrup  and  boil  it,  skimming  well ; 
then  put  in  the  tomatoes  and  boil  gently  twenty  minutes ;  take 
out  the  fruit  with  a  skimmer  and  boil  syrup  until  it  thickens. 
Ten  minutes  before  taking  from  the  fire,  add  three  lemons, 
sliced,  and  a  little  ginger  root,  if  preferred ;  put  the  tomatoes 
into  jars  and  fill  with  the  hot  syrup.     Seal  when  cold. 

— Mrs.  B.  Schallern. 


410  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 

SUN^SHINE  PEESEKYES. 

Cook  one  pound  strawberries  and  one  pound  sugar  for 
one  hour,  then  spread  the  strawberries  on  platters,  cook  the 
juice  a  little  longer,  pour  over  the  strawberries  and  let  stand 
in  the  sun  for  two  days,  then  put  in  glass  cans. 

—Mrs.  Nellie  C. 

PEACH  KOLL. 

Peel  Freestone  peaches,  stone,  mash  fine,  put  through 
a  coarse  sieve  and  to  two  quarts  of  pulp  add  one  pint  of  brown 
sugar;  mix  and  cook  for  two  minutes,  then  spread  on  plates 
and  let  stand  in  the  sun  about  three  days  or  until  it  cleaves 
from  the  plates  readil}-,  then  dust  sugar  over  and  roll  up; 
keep  in  a  dry  place.  — Mrs.  Owens. 

GOOSEBERRY   JAM. 

Pick  the  berries  just  as  they  begin  to  turn.  Stem,  wash 
and  weigh.  To  four  pounds  of  fruit  add  one-half  teacup 
water;  boil  until  soft;  add  four  pounds  sugar  and  boil  until 
clear. 

QUINCE  JAM. 

Grate  two  quinces.  Make  a  syrup  of  three  pounds  sugar 
and  one  pint  water.  Add  quinces  and  cook  ten  minutes. 
This  is  nice  for  hot  griddle  caJ^es. 


FRUIT    CANNING  411 


STEAWBEEEY  JAM. 

Take  equal  parts  of  pieplant  and  strawberries.  Boil  pie- 
plant and  if  too  juicy  drain  off  a  part  of  the  juice,  then  add 
the  strawberries,  sweeten  to  taste  and  boil  until  thick. 

— Dorothy  B.  French. 

TOMATO  JAM. 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  4  pounds  brown  sugar, 

5  big  sour  apples,  4  pounds  white  sugar, 

sliced  very  thin,  1  heaping  teaspoon 

4  lemons,  sliced,  cinnamon. 

— Mrs.  E.  Weininger. 

QUINCE   HONEY. 

5  large  quinces,  J  gallon  water. 
5  pounds  honey, 

Grate  the  quinces  and  boil  all  together  until  pink.  This 
tastes  like  natural  honey  and  is  nice  for  pancakes  or  dessert. 

— A.  Hunter. 

ORANGE   MARMALADE.     (English.) 

7  large  oranges,  1  gallon  cold  water, 

4  lemons,  5  pounds  su^ar. 

Cut  the  fruit  in  thin  slices,  let  stand  in  water  thirty-six 
hours,  then  boil  quickly  in  the  same  water  two  hours;  add 
the  sugar  and  boil  another  hour,  or  until  it  jellies. 

—Mrs.  C.  A.  Weil. 


412  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

PIEPLANT  MARMALADE. 

3  pounds  pieplant,  2  lemons, 

3  pounds  sugar,  ^  pound  almonds. 

Peel  and  cut  the  pieplant  in  small  pieces,  blanch  am? 
chop  the  almonds  fine,  then  boil  the  pieplant,  sugar,  juict 
and  grated  rind  of  the  lemons  for  thirty  minutes,  then  add 
the  almonds,  boil  twenty-five  minutes  more  and  put  in  jelly 
glasses.  — Mrs.  S.  E.  Penney. 

APPLE  BUTTER. 

Boil  new  cider  down  one  half,  then  add  an  equal  quantity 
of  pared,  cored  and  quartered  apples,  boil  until  the  apples  are 
tender,  sweeten  to  taste  with  light  brown  sugar,  and  boil,  with 
constant  stirring,  until  it  is  reduced  to  a  smooth,  buttery  mass ; 
keep  in  stone  jars.  — J.  B.  Smiley. 

CANDIED   ORANGE   PEEL. 

Cut  the  rinds  of  a  dozen  oranges  into  small  pieces,  boil 
about  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  changing  the  water  three  times; 
then  drain  thoroughly,  add  a  cup  of  sugar  and  let  stand  on 
the  stove  until  the  sugar  dissolves;  then  spread  on  plates,  stir 
occasionally  and  when  thoroughly  dry,  put  in  a  glass  can. 
Lemon  peel  may  be  candied  the  same  way.  Nice  for  a  des- 
sert, or  for  flavoring  fruit  cake. 


FRUIT  CANNING.  413 


CANNED  BEANS.     (Fine.) 

String  and  cut  fresh  snap  beans  as  if  for  immediate  use; 
fill  a  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  the  uncooked  beans  and  salt, 
allowing  a  half  cup  of  salt  to  each  quart  of  beans ;  then  fasten 
air  tight  with  the  salt  at  the  top.  Will  keep  crisp  and  green 
for  months  and  taste  almost  as  good  as  fresh;  can  also  be 
taken  from  the  salt  and  pickled  at  any  time. 

— N.  H.  White. 


TO    PUT   UP   BEANS. 

Cut  off  the  ends  and  boil  the  beans  in  salted  water  until 
about  half  tender;  then  drain  and  drop  into  boiling  water, 
salted  in  the  proportion  of  two  tablespoons  salt  to  each  quart 
of  water.  Boil  about  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  glass  jars,  cover 
well  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  and  seal.  The 
jar  should  stand  in  hot  water  while  filling. 

— Lizzie  Schottler. 


TO    KEEP    BEANS. 

Eub  five  quarts  of  beans,  one  quart  of  salt  and  one  pint 
of  sugar  together  until  juicy,  then  put  in  a  jar  with  a  weight 
over.  .  — Mrs.  John  Eoob. 


414 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


nmg 


The  following  table  will  be  found  a  great  help  in  can- 
Time  to  boil  Suger  needed  for 
in  minutes,  each  quart  of  fruit. 

Apples,  sour,  quartered.  .  10  6  ounces 

Blackberries    6  G 

Blueberries   5  4 

Cherries 5  G 

Crabapples,  whole 25  8       " 

Currants,   ripe G  8 

Gooseberries    8  9 

Grapes,  wild 10  8 . 

Peaches,  halved 8  4 

Peaches,  whole 15  8 

Pears,  small,  sour,  whole  30  8 

Pears,  Bartlett,  halved..  20  G       " 

Pineapples,  sliced 15  6       " 

Plums 10  8       " 

Quinces,  quartered 25  10       " 

Easpberries    G  4 

Rhubarb,   sliced 10  10       " 

Strawberries   8  8 

Tomatoes 20  8       " 

— J.  B.  Smiley. 


Helps  to  Young  Housekeepers. 


"Live  and  Learn." 


Good  yeast,  good  flour,  good  judgment  and  watchful  care 
are  essentials  in  bread  making.  Good  flour  is  cream  white, 
holds  together  in  a  mass  when  squeezed  by  the  hand  and 
retains  the  impression  of  the  fingers.  Learn  to  make  good 
homemade  yeast.  Keep  the  sponge  near  the  stove,  where  it 
will  keep  warm.  Bread  is  "light  enough"  when  it  has  doubled 
its  bulk,  and  is  ready  for  the  oven  when  the  loaves  will  not 
retain  the  dent  of  the  finger.  Bread  should  bake  an  hour; 
rolls  and  biscuits  should  bake  quickly;  baking  powder  and 
cream  tartar  biscuits  should  be  made  quickly  as  possible  and 
baked  in  a  hot  oven.  Pans,  especially  for  gems,  should  be 
greased  and  heated  before  putting  in  the  dough  or  batter. 
Flour  should  always  be  sifted  before  using,  and  in  winter 
should  be  wai-med.  When  fresh  bread  is  made,  a  part  of  the 
dough  may  be  set  aside  in  a  cold  place  and  rolls  made  the 
next  day.  In  winter,  kept  cold,  yet  not  in  danger  of  freezing, 
bread  dough  may  be  kept  a  week.  Stale  bread  may  be  used 
in  griddle  cakes,  omelets,  dressings,  scalloped  dishes,  toma- 


416  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


toes,  etc.;  it  may  be  dried  in  the  oven,  rolled  fine  and  kept 
in  a  paper  bag,  or  in  a  glass  jar,  for  future  use. 

In  adding  eggs  to  custards,  soups,  sauces,  etc.,  remember 
to  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  boiling  liquid  to  the  eggs  before 
stirring  them  into  the  mixture.  If  this  is  done  carefully,  the 
eggs  will  not  curdle  as  they  have  an  annoying  habit  of  doing 
when  stirred  directly  into  a  hot  mixture. 

To  separate  fat  from  soups  and  gravy,  thoroughly  wet  a 
clean  white  cloth  in  very  cold  water;  pour  soup  or  gravy 
through  it;  every  particle  of  fat  will  remain  in  the  cloth. 
Butter  will  blend  better  with  soups  if  it  is  browned  a  little 
before  adding. 

To  clarify  beef  drippings,  place  the  drippings  in  a  basin 
slice  into  it  a  raw  potato,  let  boil  long  enough  for  slices  to 
brown,  then  cool,  drain  from  the  sediment  and  put  in  a  cool 
place.  When  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  butter  it  an- 
swers the  same  purpose  as  clear  butter  for  frying  and  basting 
any  meats,  save  game  anid  poultry. 

A  piece  of  charcoal,  tied  in  a  muslin  cloth,  and  put  in 
the  water  in  which  cabbage,  cauliflower,  onions  or  ham  is  boil- 
ing will  remove  the  unpleasant  odor.  Pepper  pods  answer 
the  same  purpose.  A  piece  of  bread  tied  in  a  cloth  and  boiled 
with  strong  vegetables  will  make  them  much  milder. 

In  making  soups  put  the  meat  over  in  cold  water.  Fresh 
fish,  game,  or  meats  of  any  kind,  are  improved  by  being  salted 


HELPS  TO  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS.       417 

over  night.  Soups  and  stews  should  be  cooked  slowly;  the 
more  gently  meat  boils  the  more  tender  it  will  become;  a 
tough  piece  of  meat  can  be  made  tender  by  cooking  for  sev- 
eral hours  in  water  at  a  simmering  heat.  Roast  meats  should 
be  put  into  a  smoking  hot  oven;  after  the  surface  is  seared 
over,  the  heat  should  be  diminished  and  the  roast  cooked 
slowly  until  done. 

Chicken  or  turkey  oil  is  very  nice  to  use  in  place  of  salad 
oil  or  butter,  in  making  salad  dressings. 

Fowls,  especially  water  fowls,  after  removing  the 
feathers,  and  singeing,  should  be  thoroughly  washed  with  soap 
and  water,  after  which  they  should  be  well  rinsed.  Another 
very  good  way  to  cleanse  chickens,  turkeys,  etc.,  is  to  rub 
them  thoroughly  with  dry  oatmeal.  In  summer,  dressed 
poultry,  should  have  a  piece  of  charcoal  placed  inside  to  be 
removed  before  cooking. 

Milk  is  curdled  by  salt,  so  do  not  add  to  milk  dishes 
until  they  are  nearly  cooked. 

In  filling  salt  shakers,  add  a  little  cornstarch  to  the  salt 
and  there  will  be  a  saving  of  time  and  temper. 

Wash  egg  shells  when  they  come  from  the  market,  and 
then  they  may  be  used  for  clearing  coffee,  soup,  etc. 

To  chop  suet,  break  into  small  bits,  sprinkle  with  flour 
and  chop  in  a  cool  place. 

87 


418  WEST  BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


To  clean  currants,  put  in  a  colander,  sprinkle  well  with 
flour,  rub  until  grit,  flour,  etc.,  have  passed  through  the 
strainer.  Place  in  a  pan  of  water  and  wash  until  water  is 
stand  ten  minutes,  when  seeds  are  easily  removed. 

To  blanch  almonds,  remove  shells,  pour  over  boiling 
water  and  let  stand  until  the  dark  skin  rubs  off  easily;  then 
put  in  cold  water,  rub  off  the  skins  and  dry  between  towels. 

To  remove  the  skins  easily  from  peaches,  plums  or  toma- 
toes, dip  them  in  boiling  water  a  minute  or  two. 

In  mixing  cake,  where  other  methods  are  not  given  in 
this  work  by  contributors,  it  would  be  well  to  observe  the  fol- 
lowing directions:  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream; 
add  the  beaten  yolks,  spices  or  flavorings,  milk  or  water,  flour, 
into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  and  lastly,  the 
beaten  whites.  When  fruit  is  used  it  should  be  dredged  with 
flour  and  added  last.  Cakes,  made  with  butter,  should  be 
beaten  long  and  vigorously  after  adding  the  flour,  that  they 
may  be  smooth  and  fine  grained.  Sponge  cakes  should  not  be 
beaten  after  adding  the  flour,  but  require  much  beating  be- 
fore. All  cakes,  except  those  containmg  yeast,  should  be 
baked  as  soon  as  possible  after  they  are  mixed.  Cakes  with 
fruit  in  should  be  mixed  stiffer  with  flour  than  those  without 
fruit.  Cakes  with  molasses  in  will  bum  more  quickly  than 
others.  Baking  powder  should  be  sifted  into  the  flour,  and 
soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk  or  in  hot  water.     In  making  sour 


HELPS  TO  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS.       419 

milk  biscuits,  doughnuts  or  cakes,  in  addition  to  the  soda 
required  to  sweeten  the  sour  milk  use  a  little  baking  powder 
in  the  flour.  Thin  cakes  should  bake  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes,  thicker  cakes  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  very 
thick  loaves  about  an  hour,  and  large  fruit  cakes  two  to  three 
hours.  To  prevent  cake  or  pie  from  burning,  place  a  pan  of 
cold  water  on  the  upper  gTate  within  the  oven.  A  cake  will 
never  be  tough  if  a  level  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  is  sifted 
into  the  flour. 

Doughnuts  will  not  take  up  the  lard  if  one  level  teaspoon 
of  ginger  is  sifted  into  the  flour. 

What  is  left  of  a  steamed  pudding  can  be  steamed  over 
just  enough  to  heat  it  through,  and  will  be  quite  as  nice  as 
when  first  served. 

Tea  and  coffee,  made  hot  before  water  is  added,  are  more 
fragrant  and  stronger. 

To  keep  lemons  fresh,  put  them  in  a  jar  and  cover  witli 
water;  in  summer  change  the  water  twice  a  week. 

In  canning  fruits  see  that  the  covers  and  rubbers  are  in 
perfect  form. 

Keep  pieces  of  charcoal  in  the  refrigerator,  change  them 
often.        •  . 


420  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

MEATS  AND  THEIR  ACCOMPANIMENTS. 

With  roast  beef:  Tomato  sauce,  grated  horseradish,  mus- 
tard, cranberry  sauce,  pickles. 

With  roast  pork :    Apple  or  cranberry  sauca 

With  roast  veal:  Tomato,  mushroom,  onion  or  cranberry 
sauce;  also  horseradish  and  onions. 

With  roast  mutton :    Currant  jelly,  caper  sauce. 

With  boiled  mutton:    Onion  or  caper  sauce. 

With  boiled  fowls:  Bread  sauce  or  onion,  lemon,  or  cran- 
berry sauce,  jellies.    Also  cream  sauce. 

With  roast  lamb :     Mint  sauce. 

With  roast  turkey:    Cranberry  sauce,  currant  jelly. 

With  boiled  turkey:    Oyster  sauce. 

With  venison  or  wild  ducks:     Cranberry  sauce,  currant 

jelly. 

With  roast  goose:  Apple  or  cranberry  sauce,  grape  or 
currant  jelly. 

With  boiled  fresh  mackerel:    Stewed  gooseberries. 

With  fresh  salmon:    Green  peas,  cream  sauce. 

Pickles  are  good  with  all  meats. 

Spinach  should  be  served  with  veal;  green  peas  with 
lamb.  Lemon  juice  is  nice  with  all  fish.  Slices  of  lemon 
diced  and  brought  to  a  boiling  point  in  drawn  butter  are  fine 
with  fowls. 


HELPS  TO  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS.       421 

WEIGHTS   AND   MEASUHES. 

Almonds  or  walnuts:    1  cup,  shelled=:seven  ounces. 

Butter:     2  rounded  cups=one  pound. 

Coffee:    4  cups,  ground=:one  pound. 

Cornstarch:    3  cups^=one  pound. 

Dates,  figs,  prunes  or  raisins :    2  cups=one  pound. 

Eggs:    Ten,  average  size=one  pound. 

Flour:  4  cups,  sifted=:one  heaping  quart  aaid  weighs 
one  pound. 

Lard  or  suet:    2  full  cups=one  pound. 

Meat,  chopped:  2  solid  cups==one  pint  and  weighs  one 
pound. 

Rice  or  sago:    2  cups,  heaped=:one  pound. 

Sugar,  granulated  or  dry  broAvn:  2  heaping  cups=one 
pound. 

Sugar,  powdered :    2^  cups=one  pound. 

Milk,  cream,  molasses,  vinegar  or  water :  2  cups=one 
pint. 

Yeast:    One-half  cup,  liquid=one-half  cake  compressed. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  rounded=one  ounce. 

One  gill=one-half  cup. 

Two  cups  or  four  gills = one  pint. 

Two  pints=one  quart. 

Four  quarts=one  gallon. 

Four  level  tablespoons  of  unmelted  butter=one-half  cup 
in  this  book. 

The  "size  of  an  egg'^=two  slightly  rounded  tablespoons 
of  butter. 

"Pinch  of  salf'=one  saltspoon  full. 


422  WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


Diet  for  the  5ick, 


BY  DR.   J.   H.   WEHLE. 


In  serving  a  meal  to  an  invalid,  one  cannot  be  too  fastid- 
ious: too  large  a  portion,  a  suspicion  of  grease  on  the  broth, 
will  often  spoil  the  appetite.  The  linen,  glass,  dishes,  etc., 
should  be  the  best  in  the  house;  a  tiny  flower  laid  on  the 
folded  napkin  will  do  much  to  render  the  meal  pleasant. 

CALVES'    FEET   BKOTH. 

2  calves'  feet,  1  egg, 

2  quarts  water,  Salt, 

2  tablespoons  milk,  Pepper. 

Boil  the  feet  to  shreds  and  strain  liquor.  Add  egg  and 
milk;  give  one  boil  up  and  serve  hot  with  toast. 

EGGS. 

Boiled.  Dip  a  heavy  coffee  cup  in  boiling  water  (by  run- 
ning a  string  through  the  handle)  and  heat  for  five  minutes ; 
then  break  an  egg  into  it  and  cover  cup.  The  heat  of  the 
cup  will  cook  the  egg  sufficiently ;  season  to  taste. 


424  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 

EGG  LEMONADE. 

4  lemons  (juice  of  four,       6  ounces  loaf  sugar, 

rind  of  two) ,  IJ  pints  boiling  water. 

4  eggs, 

Pare  lemon  rind  thin;  put  into  pitcher  with  sugar  and 
pour  the  boiling  water  over.  Let  cool  and  strain,  then  add 
lemon  juice  and  beaten  eggs. 

JUNKET. 

Take  one-half  pint  of  milk  (lukewarm — 100  degrees  F.), 
sweeten  with  sugar,  if  necessary;  add  one  teaspoon  of  Fair- 
child's  essence  of  pepsin.  Stir  and  divide  into  small  cups  or 
glasses  and  set  aside  until  it  jellies.  It  may  be  placed  in  ice 
before  serving.  This  may  be  flavored  with  vanilla,  nutmeg 
or  cinnamon.  If  digestion  is  feeble,  use  liquid  whey  instead 
of  the  curd. 

EGG  JUNKET. 
Two  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  and  sweetened  with  four 
teaspoons  of  sugar,  may  previously  be  added  to  milk;  heat 
lukewarm ;  add  essence  of  pepsin  and  proceed  as  above. 

COCOA   JUNKET. 

Scald  a  teaspoon  of  cocoa  and  two  of  sugar  with  two 
tablespoons  of  boiling  water.  Eub  to  a  paste,  add  one-half 
pint  of  milk  and  heat  mixture  lukewarm.  Add  essence  of 
pepsin  and  proceed  as  above, 


DIET  FOR  THE  SICK.  425 


COFFEE  JUNKET. 

Dissolve  two  teaspoons  of  sugar  in  two  tablespoons  of 
strong  coffee  and  proceed  as  above. 

STRAWBERRY,    VANILLA    AND    BITTER    ALMOND 
JUNKET. 

Add  one-half  teaspoon  extract  of  vanilla  or  bitter  almond 
extract  to  above.  Strawberry :  One  tablespoon  of  strawberry 
syrup  to  above. 

KOUMYSS. 

Take  a  strong  bottle  (like  champagne  bottle)  with  a  long 
neck  and  fill  to  lower  end  of  neck  with  fresh,  lukewarm  milk ; 
add  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  shake;  then  one-sixth  of  a 
cake  of  Fleishman^s  compressed  yeast  and  cork.  Wire  or  tie 
securely,  as  the  Koumyss  may  pop.  Set  the  bottle  in  tem- 
perature of  100  degrees  F.,  for  8  or  10  hours;  then  place  in 
cellar  or  on  ice  and  use  as  needed.  (Use  champagne  tap,  or 
open  carefully.) 

MILK. 

As  milk  is  disagreeable  to  many  it  may  be  flavored  by 
boiling  a  stick  of  cinnamon  in  it;  if  it  is  not  easily  digested, 
lime  water  or  a  little  bi-carbonate  of  soda  may  be  added. 


426  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

PEPTONIZED   MILK. 

Take  a  quart  Mason  jar  and  pour  into  it  a  teacup  of 
lukewarm  water.  Dissolve  in  this  one  of  Fairchild's  pepton- 
izing tubes.  Add  one  pint  of  fresh  milk  and  shake.  Place 
the  jar  for  ten  minutes  in  water  so  hot  that  the  hand  can  be 
held  in  it  for  one  minute  (say  115  F.).  Now  bring  it  to  a 
boil  at  once,  or  put  on  ice.  If  directions  are  not  carefully 
followed  the  mixture  will  become  bitter. 

SAVOURY   CUSTAED. 

Add  yolks  of  two  eggs  to  a  cupful  of  beef  tea;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a  cup,  pour  the  mixture  into 
it  and  let  it  stand  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  until  the  custard 
is  set. 

SCOTCH  BEEF  BROTH. 

Remove  the  fat  from  a  pint  of  strained  beef  broth,  sea- 
son, add  one  teaspoon  of  oatmeal  and  boil  gently  for  two 
hours. 

CHICKEN   BROTH. 

Cut  chicken  into  pieces,  cover  with  twelve  pints  water, 
add  two  ounces  salt.  Simmer  gently  three  hours,  skim  off 
fat;  make  paste  of  flour  and  water,  add  to  broth,  and  boil 
ten  minutes. 


DIET  FOR  THE  SICK.  427 


BEEF    TEA. 

Put  one  pound  minced  beef  into  a  jar  with  one  pint  cold 
water.  Let  stand  one  hour,  stirring  occasionally;  then  place 
jar  in  a  saucepan  of  water,  over  the  fire,  and  allow  water  to 
boil  gently  for  one  hour.    Strain  the  tea  and  add  salt. 

SCRAPED   BEEF   SANDWICHES. 

Place  a  piece  of  round  steak  on  meat  board  and  scrape 
out  all  the  pulp  with  a  dull  knife,  add  salt,  pepper  and  enough 
raw  beef  juice  to  make  it  into  a  firm  jelly.  Spread  on  thin 
slices  of  stale  bread,  without  butter. 

FARINA   PUDDING. 

^  pound  farina,  2^  ounces  sugar, 

2  pints  milk,  4  ounces  eggs, 

1  pint  water,  |  ounce  nutmeg. 

Put  water  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  little  salt.  When  it 
boils,  stir  in  the  farina.  Boil  twenty  minutes,  then  stir  in 
the  milk,  which  must  be  hot.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  to- 
gether, and  stir  into  the  farina,  add  nutmeg.  Put  into  mod- 
erate oven  and  bake  one-half  hour. 

PANOPEPTON   PREPARATIONS. 

Panopepton  is  a  pre-digested  wheat  starch  and  beef  prep- 
aration, and  a  good  substitute  for  milk,  where  milk  and  other 
foods  are  disagreeable  to  patients. 


428  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


PANOPEPTON   JELLY,   WITH   OEANGE 

i  box  gelatine,  1  orange  (juice  and  rind), 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  pint  cold  water. 

6  tablespoons  panopepton, 
Put  gelatine,  orange  peel  (cut  into  small  pieces),  juice 
and  cold  water  in  a  dish,  and  let  stand  one  hour,  then  put  in 
a  double  boiler  over  the  fire,  add  sugar  and  stir  until  dis- 
solved; strain  through  linen,  add  panopepton  and  stir  well. 
Pour  into  jar  and  set  near  ice.     Serve  in  small  quantities. 

PANOPEPTON.  (Hot.) 

To  a  small  teacup  two-thirds  full  of  boiling  water,  add 
one  tablespoon  panopepton,  one  teaspoon  fresh  lemon  juice 
and  a  little  sugar.  Stir  and  drink  immediately,  sipping 
slowly. 

PANOPEPTON    BOUILLON.     (Hot.) 

Put  one  tablespoon  panopepton  into  a  teacup;  fill  cup 
nearly  full  of  boiling  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  stir 
and  sip  slowly. 

ARKOW  ROOT  GRUEL. 

One  pint  milk  or  water,  one  teaspoon  arrow  root,  salt  to 
taste. 


Miscellaneous. 


"They  have  gathered  the  scraps." 


AN   EXCELLENT   SUBSTITUTE   FOR   BUTTEE. 

Take  six  pounds  of  suet  from  the  breast  of  beef  (kidney 
suet  ^\dll  not  do),  and  three  pounds  best  butter.  Cook  each 
slowly  for  several  hours.  Eemove  the  scum  from  the  butter 
as  it  forms,  and  when  done  pour  off  from  the  sediment  at  the 
bottom,  then  turn  the  suet  and  butter  together  while  hot  and 
pour  into  a  stone  jar.  Will  keep  sweet  for  months,  and  can 
be  used  with  perfect  satisfaction  in  place  of  butter,  either  in 
baking  or  cooking. 

TO   KEEP   BUTTEE.     (German  Method.) 

Put  twenty  pounds  in  a  preserving  kettle  on  the  back  of 
the  stove  to  avoid  all  risk  of  burning,  cook  slowly  seven  or 
eight  hours,  stirring  often.  When  done  will  be  a  pale  yellow 
with  brown  sediment  at  bottom.  Pour  off  the  clear  butter 
into  stone  jars,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  Gives  a  fine  flavor 
to  meats  and  keeps  six  months  or  more. 


430  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


BAKING    POWDER. 

Eight  ounces  bicarb,  soda,  six  ounces  tartaric  acid,  two- 
thirds  quart  of  flour.  Sift  at  least  twenty  times  (forty  will 
be  better),  and  do  not  throw  away  the  pieces  left  in  the  sieve, 
but  mash  them  and  sift  again.  Must  be  kept  in  cool,  dry 
place.    Use  like  any  other  baking  powder. 

— Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 

BRINE    FOR    MEAT. 

7  pounds  common  salt,         2  teaspoons  saltpeter, 
1  pound  brown  sugar,  5  gallons  water. 

1  pint  molasses. 
Let  come  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  when  cold  pour  over  the 
meat.    If  dried  beef  is  wanted  leave  in  brine  two  weeks,  then 
hang  up  several  days  to  drain  and  smoke  four  days. 

— Mrs.  F.  Althaus. 

BRINE  FOR   100  POUNDS   OF  MEAT. 

G  pounds  rock  salt,  2  ounces  saltpeter, 

Ih  pounds  brown  sugar,       5  gallons  water. 
Boil,  let  get  cold  and  skim.        — Mrs.  R.  S.  Lynch. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  431 


RECIPE    FOB    HAMS. 

Pack  the  hams  in  a  barrel  as  closely  as  possible,  putting 
on  a  little  salt.  For  100  pounds  of  meat  take  five  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  of  saltpeter,  and  as  much 
rock  salt  as  will  dissolve  in  five  pails  of  water.  Put  in  a 
boiler  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  skim  well,  while  boiling  hot 
pour  over  the  hams  and  cover  tight.  Leave  in  the  pickle  six 
weeks,  then  drain  and  smoke.         — Mrs.  Sarah  Sheldon. 

SWEET   PICKLE   FOR  BEEF   AND   PORK. 

2  gallons  water,  2  pints  salt, 

1  pint  sugar,  1  ounce  saltpeter. 

Let  water,  sugar  and  salt  come  to  a  boil,  then  skim  and 
remove  from  the  fire;  while  cooling  add  the  saltpeter.  Rub 
the  beef  with  dry  salt,  let  stand  on  its  side  to  drain  over 
night;  in  the  morning  pack  tight  in  a  jar,  pour  the  brine  over 
and  in  two  v/eeks  it  will  be  ready  to  use.  In  cooking  this 
pickled  or  corned  beef,  change  the  water  at  least  twice  and 
boil  very  slow  not  less  than  four  hours.  Add  one  cup  soda  to 
this  brine  and  it  makes  fine  pickle  for  pork.  Leave  the  hams 
in  the  brine  from  four  to  six  weeks,  then  remove  and  smoke. 

— Mrs.  Anna  Corr. 


432  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


COUGH    SYRUP. 

2  lemons  (juice),  J  cup  vinegar, 

1  pound  loaf  sugar,  1  tablespoon  paregoric. 

Boil  the  lemon  juice,  sugar  and  vinegar  to  a  thick  syrup ; 
take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  paregoric.  An  excellent  caugh 
remedy.  —Mrs.  Catherine  Vestey. 

COUGH    SYEUP. 

1  ounce  thoroughwort,         1  ounce  best  stick  licorice, 
1  ounce  flaxseed,  1  pint  New  Orleans  molasses 

1  ounce  slippery  elm,  i  pint  loaf  sugar. 

Cook  thoroughwort,  flaxseed,  slippery  elm  and  licorice 
together  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  strain,  then  add  mo- 
lasses and  sugar  and  cook  until  thick.  Take  one  tablespoon- 
ful  after  every  coughing  spell.  If  persisted  in  this  is  a  sure 
cure  for  an  obstinate  cough. 

—Mrs.  A.  E.  Ottstadt. 

ONION"  SYRUP. 

Peel  and  slice  one  large  onion,  add  one-half  cup  sugar 
and  four  tablespoons  vinegar,  boil  to  a  syrup  and  strain. 

— Mrs.  Knoller. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  433 


DANDELION   TONIC. 

Gather  two  quarts  of  dandelion  blossoms  entirely  clear 
of  stalks  and  let  stand  over  night  to  wilt;  the  next  morning 
pour  four  quarts  of  boiling  water  over  them,  let  stand  two 
days,  then  strain  and  drain;  add  three  pounds  granulated 
sugar  to  the  liquid  and  heat  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  let 
stand  three  weeks  in  a  jar  covered  with  a  cloth,  when  it  will 
be  ready  to  bottle.  Dose:  One  tablespoonful  three  times  a 
day.    A  valuable  spring  tonic. 

DANDELION  TONIC. 

Fill  a  gallon  jar  with  dandelion  blossoms  and  pour  over 
them  one  gallon  of  boiling  water;  let  stand  three  days,  then 
drain  and  add  three  pounds  of  sugar  to  the  water,  heat  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved  ;  when  cool  add  three  oranges  and  one 
lemon  sliced,  and  one  dissolved  3'east-cake;  let  stand  three 
weeks,  then  strain  and  bottle.  This  is  an  excellent  spring 
tonic.  — Mrs.  E.  Steinke. 

EXCELLENT  EEMEDY  FOR  SORE  THROAT. 

Cut  a  slice  of  fat  salt  pork,  let  stand  a  minute  or  two 
in  hot  vinegar,  sprinkle  with  black  pepper,  and  apply  to  the 
throat  as  hot  as  possible.  When  relieved  and  the  pork  is  re- 
moved, bandage  the  throat  with  soft  flannel. 


434  WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 

GARGLE  FOE   SORE  THROAT.     (Excellent.) 

1  ounce  tincture  of  iron,       1  ounce  glycerine. 
Dilute  with  water,  when  used.     Do  not  touch  the  teeth 
with  this  preparation  as  it  is  very  injurious  to  the  enamel. 

LINIMENT    FOR   RHEUMATISM. 

To  one  pint  cider  vinegar  add  all  the  saltpeter  it  will 
cut,  then  add  as  much  turpentine  as  will  mix;  stir  thor- 
oughly. — Mrs.  Wheeler. 

ONION   GRUEL. 

Boil  a  few  onions,  sliced,  in  a  pint  of  new  milk,  with  a 
sprinkle  of  oatmeal  and  a  very  little  salt,  until  quite  tender; 
then  sip  rapidly  and  go  to  bed.     Excellent  for  colds. 

— Mrs.  Herman  J.  Wagner. 

FLAXSEED  TEA. 

Cook  a  handful  of  whole  flaxseed  in  a  quart  of  water, 
strain,  season  with  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Drink  one  cupful 
before  each  meal.    Will  cure  the  most  obstinate  cough. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Wesendorf. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  435 


MULLEIN    TEA. 

A  tea  made  from  the  leaves  or  blossoms  of  the  common 
mullein  plant  is  a  remarkable  healer  of  diseased  lungs;  its 
use  must  be  persisted  in  for  months,  if  necessary.  This  is  a 
simple  remedy,  try  it.  The  mullein  leaves  ma}'  be  gathered 
and  dried  for  future  use. 

SLIPPERY    ELM    BARK    TEA. 

Break  the  bark  into  bits,  pour  boiling  water  over,  cover 
and  let  stand  until  cold,  then  sweeten,  ice,  and  take  for  sum- 
mer disorders,  or  add  lemon  juice  and  drink  for  a  bad  cold. 

— Mrs.  Wagner. 

CAMPHOR   ICE. 

1  ounce  spermaceti,  2  ounces  almond  oil, 

1  ounce  camphor,  ^  cake  white  wax. 

Melt  together  and  turn  into  moulds. 

— Mrs.  Frank  Smith. 

SAILOR^S   DYSENTERY   MEDICINE.     (Excellent.) 

Pour  one  cup  boiling  water  over  ten  cents  worth  Turkish 
rhubarb,  let  stand  till  cool,  then  add  one-half  cup  sugar,  one 
teaspoon  soda  and  one  teaspoon  peppermint  essence. 

Dose:     One  tablespoon ful  every  hour  in  severe  cases. 

—Mrs.  N.  J.  C. 


436  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


ECZEMA  CURE. 

Five  cents'  worth  each  of  rosin,  beeswax,  lard  and  balsam 
of  fir,  mixed  by  a  druggist;  use  as  a  salve.  Has  helped  in 
many  cases.  — Anna  B  Jenson. 


WASHIISTG  FLUID. 

Dissolve  one-half  ounce  salts  of  tartar,  one-half  ounce 
sal  ammonia  and  one  pound  of  Babbitt's  potash  in  one  gallon 
of  boiling  soft  water.  Soak  the  white  clothes  in  cold  water 
over  night;  in  the  morning  add  one  cup  of  the  fluid  to  five 
gallons  of  water  and  boil  the  clothes  in  it  one  half  hour. 

— Mrs.  Sleyfield. 


INDEX 


BREAD. 


Bread,  wheat  7-11 

Bread,  Boston  brown 14 

Bread,  brown 12-14 

Bread,  corn   20 

Bread,  French 9 

Bread,  graham 14-16 

Bread,  graham  nut 16 

Bread,  milk  17 

Bread,  Norwegian  Christmas.   17 

Bread,  oatmeal 17 

Bread,  Ralston's  health 38 

Bread,  rye    IS 

Bread,  salt-rising 19 

Bread,  steamed  corn  21 

Bread  sticks o2 

Bread,  walnut 19 

Bread,  whole  wheat 19 

Biscuit,  Aunt  Fannie's 23 

Biscuit,  baking  powder  . . .  .24-25 

Biscuit,  cream  25-26 

Biscuit,  cream  of  tartar  ....  26 

Biscuit,  currant    26 

Biscuit,  drop   27 

Biscuit,  raised    27 

Biscuit,  soda   28 

Biscuit,  yeast    28 

Crackers,  graham 31 

Crackers,  sweet    32 

Fritters   36 

Fritters,  sweet  corn   36 

Gems,  bran 30 

Gems,  graham    30-31 

Graham  sticks 31 


Johnny  cake  22-23 

Johnny  cake  or  corn  pone. . .  21 
Johnny  cake,  Bishop  Wm.'s. .  21 

Kolatschi    16 

Muffins   33-34 

Muffins,  cream    32 

Muffins,  graham   33 

Muffins,  old  time   35 

Muffins,  potato    35 

Pancakes    39 

Pancakes,  buckwheat   37 

Pancakes,  egg  38 

Pancakes,  French 38 

Pancakes,  potato    38-39 

Potato  cakes   39 

Popovers  35 

Rolls 29-30 

Rolls,  breakfast    29 

Rolls,  Parker   House    29 

Rye  drop  cakes   36 

Sandwiches    42 

Sandwiches,  camping    40 

Sandwiches,  chicken   40 

Sandwiches,  date  41 

Sandwiches,  fruit    41 

Sandwiches,  peanut 41 

Sandwiches,  picnic    41 

Toast,  French  40 

Toast,  German   40 

Waffles    37 

Yeast,  hop    11 

Yeast,  potato   11-12 


438 


WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


SOUPS. 


A  plain  bean  soup 43 

Asparagus  soup    43 

Bean  soup 44 

Beef  tongue  soup 44 

Berry    soup    44 

Bouillon    45 

Chili   con   carne    45 

Chili,    Mexican    45 

Cream  of  asparagus  soup. ...  46 

Cream  salmon  soup 46 

Egg  soup 46 

Milk  soup  47 

Mutton   broth    47 

Mutton  soup 48 

Onion  soup 48 

Ox-tail  soup 48 

Oyster  soup  49 

Plain  soup   50 

Potato  soup   50 

Split    pea    soup 51 

Stock  for  clear  soup 52 


To  clear  soup  stock ,  52 

Tomato  bisque    53 

Tomato  soup,  cream  of 54 

Tomato  soup 54-55 

Veal  soup  55 

Vegetable  soup   55 

Water  soup  for  invalids,....  56 

Bread  dumplings   56 

Croutons   56 

Dumplings 57-58 

Egg    balls     58 

Farina  dumplings    58 

Little   cracker   dumplings....  51) 

Liver    duuii  )lings    59 

Marrow  "ba  lis    59 

Meat  dumplings    60 

Noodles    60 

Potato  dumplings   60-61 

Scalded   dumplings    62 

Schwamm  dumplings    62 


SALADS. 


Cream  dressing  for  salads. . . 

Excellent  salad  dressing 

Dressing     

Mayonnaise    64- 

Plain  salad  dressing 

Salad  dressing  67- 

Sour  cream  dressing 

Superior  salad  dressing 

Apple  salad   

Beet  salad   

Cabbage  salad   74- 

Cabbage  and  banana  salad  . . 

Celery  salad  75- 

Celery   root   salad 

Chicken  salad 76 

Egg  salad 

For  mayonnaise  chicken  salad 
Grandmother's   salad    


Ham  salad  80 

Planoverian  salad 80 

Herring  salad   81 

Horseradish  salad   SO 

Lobster  salad    82 

Meat  salad  82 

Oyster  salad   82 

Potato  salad  83-85 

Salad   85 

Salmon  salad S6 

Summer  salad 86 

Tomato  and  cucumber  salad. .  86 

Walnut  salad    87 

Cheese  salad   87 

Cottage  cheese  salad 87 

Cottage  chees.^   88 

Boiled  cheese    S3 

Hand  cheese SS 


INDEX. 


439 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS,  Etc. 


Beet  pickle S9 

Chili  sauce   SV>l)0 

Cucumber  pickles   00-91 

Dill   pickles 02-93 

East  Indian  pickles 93 

French  mustard.  94 

Green  tomato  pickles 94-95 

Mustard  pickles    95-96 

Oil  pickles 96-97 

Pickles 97 

Piccallili 97-98 

Senf  Gurken    98 

Shirley  sauce    98 


Spanish  pickles    99 

Spiced  cucumber  pickles 99 

Spiced  geeen  tomato  pickles.  .100 

Sweet  pickled  cherries 100 

Sweet  pickled  pieplant  100 

Sweet  pickled  wax  beans 101 

Sweet  pickled  cucumbers  .  .  .  .101 

Tomato  catsup 102-104 

Vinegar   pickles    104 

Yellow  pickles 105 

Corn  vinegar  106 

Potato  vinegar 106 

White  wine  vinegar 106 


VEGETABLES. 


Asparagus    107 

Beans,  baked    108 

Beans,  Lima    109 

Beans,  sour  pickled 109 

Beans,  string     109 

Beet,    vegetable    110 

Cabbage  110 

Cabbage,  baked    110 

Cabbage,  fried  with  eggs 110 

Cabbage,  filled    Ill 

Cabbage,  milk  112 

Cabbage,  sour   113 

Cabbage,  southern   113 

Carrots,  creamed    114 

Carrots,  mashed  114 

Cauliflower 115 

Cheeles    115 

Corn,  baked  115 

Corn,  escalloped   116 

Cucumbers,  fried    118 

Egg  plant   116 

Fried  apples    117 

Fried  noodles    117 

Gold  and  silver  vegetables.  . .  .117 

Hot  slaw  111-112 

Macaroni .• 119 

Macaroni   cheese    119 

Macaroni  croquettes   118 


Macaroni  and  tomato  120 

Onions,  fried     120 

Onions,  stewed  with  cream . . .  120 

Onions,  stuffed    121 

Parsnips    116 

Parsnips,  escalloped    116 

Peas  and  carrots 114 

Potatoes,  au  gratin  121 

Potatoes,  baked    122 

Potatoes,  cream  sauce  for.  .  .  .123 

Potato    croquettes    123 

Potatoes,  escalloped    122 

Potatoes,  fried    123 

Potatoes,  French  fried 122 

Potatoes,  Saratoga    chips....  124 

Potato  stew  123 

Potatoes,  stuffed    124 

Rice    125 

Rice,   Spanish    126 

Rothkraut 113 

Sauerkraut     128 

Squash,  Hubbard   126 

Tomatoes,  baked 126 

Tomatoes,  escalloped ]27 

Tomatoes,  savory  127 

Tomatoes,  stewed 127 

Turnips   128 


440 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


MEATS. 


Almond  dressing  for  turkey . .  158 

Beefsteak,  broiled   131 

Beef,  corned    (pressed) 131 

Beef,  corned,    to   boil 134 

Beef  loaf   129 

Beef  olives  130 

Beef,  roast    133-135 

Beef,  spiced  134 

Bobatee    120 

Boiled  dinner   134 

Breakfast  bacon  145 

Browned  beef   (pot  roast)...  131 

Calf's  head  cheese  143 

Calf's  liver  and  bacon 143 

Catsup  gravy    152 

Chicken,  cream  156 

Chicken  croquettes 155 

Chicken,  escalloped   157 

Chicken,  fried  156 

Chicken  loaf    157 

Chicken  pie   155 

Chicken,  pressed 156 

Croquettes    148 

Croquettes    145 

Curry  sauce  154 

Drawn  butter  sauce 154 

Dressings    159 

Dressings,  Jewish    160 

Eier  Kuchen 152 

Escalloped  meat 138-139 

Filled  pork 132 

Fillet  a  la  jardiniere 135 

Filling  for  chicken 159 

Filling,   turkey    160 

Filling  for  poultry 159 

French  stew    147 

French  toast    145 


Fricadelle 135 

Gravy  for  cold  meats 153 

Ham,   baked    151 

Hashed  meat 146 

Hungarian  stew   147 

Lung  sausage   150 

Meat  loaf  136 

Meat  porcupine 136 

Meat  shape    137 

Mint  sauce  154 

Mock  duck  132 

Mock  terrapin 142 

Pannhause  or  scrapple 150 

Pickled   pig's  feet 152 

Pot  roast  of  steak  132 

Pot  roast  of  veal 139 

Rabbit  fricassee  150 

Roast  beef  133 

Roast  leg  of  lamb  (sour) 138 

Roast  turkey  157 

Rouladen 133 

Sauce  for  boiled  tongue 153 

Saur  braten  143 

Saur  fleisch   144 

Soup  meat   1.51 

Sweet  and  sour  tongue 144 

Sweetbreads,  baked 149 

Sweetbreads,  stewed 149 

Sweet  sour  gravy    153 

Three  ways  to  use  meats 145 

Tongue  cutlet   144 

To  use  cold  ham 145 

To  utilize  every  part  of  duck.  160 

Veal  loaf 140-141 

Veal  pot   roast    141-142 

Veal,  pressed 139 


EGGS. 


Baked  eggs 172 

Egg  cutlets 172 

Egg  timbales    172 

Filling  174 


Mustard  eggs 173 

Omelet 174 

Picnic  eggs 173 

Scrambled  eggs    173 


INDEX. 


441 


FISH. 


Baked  fish    162 

Baked  fish  with  sauce 161 

Boiled  fish   163 

Brown  fish  sauce 163 

Codfish  balls   164 

Cream  sauce  for  salmon 170 

Croquettes  of  fish 164 

Fish  a  la  Russian  162 

Fish  balls 164 

Fish  cutlets   165 

Fish  with    parsley    sauce ....  161 
Herring,  pickled 167 


Kedgeree 166 

Lobster  cutlets   166 

Oysters  and  macaroni 168 

Oysters,  escalloped      168 

Planked  white  fish 165 

Salmon  in  a   mould 170 

Salmon,  escalloped    169 

Salmon  loaf   168-169 

Salmon  turbot    171 

Turbot  a  la  creme 171 

Turbot  171 


THE  CHAFING  DISH 


Cheese  toast 175 

Creamed  oysters 176 

Omelet 175 

Oysters  on  toast 176 


Panned  oysters  176 

Tomato  rarebit  177 

Welsh  rarebit   177 


PUDDINGS. 


Apple  Charlotte    179 

Apple  dumpling 180-181 

Apple  pudding    181 

Apple  tapioca    182 

Berry  pudding    182 

Bird's  nest  pudding 182 

Black  pudding    183 

Bread  pudding   183 

Brown  pudding 184 

Caramel  pudding  184 

Cherry  pudding 185 

Chocolate  pudding   185-186 

Chocolate  custard    186 

Citronen  pudding 187 

Cornmeal  pudding   187 

Cornstarch  pudding 188 

Cottage  pudding 188 

Cracker  pudding 188 

Dark  pudding   189 

Date  pudding 189 

Delmonico  pudding   190 

Economical  dessert   190 


Estelle  pudding 190 

Farina  pudding 191 

Fig  pudding   191-192 

Graham  pudding 192-193 

Hartford  pudding 193 

Marble  pudding   193 

Oatmeal  pudding  194 

Orange  pudding   194 

Peach  delight 195 

Peach   pudding    195-196 

Plum  pudding    196-199 

Prune    pudding    199 

Queen  of  puddings 190 

Red  gelatine  pudding 200 

Rice  pudding    200 

Roly  Poly  200 

Snow  pudding  201 

Stale  cake  pudding 201-202 

Steamed  pudding  202 

Steamed   fruit  pudding 203 

Suet  pudding  203-204 

Tapioca  pudding 204-205 


342 


WEST   BEND   COOK   BOOK. 


PUDDINQ  SAUCES. 


Cream  sauce 205 

Creamj'  sance   205 

Egg  sauce 206 

Hard  sauce 206 

Hard  sauce  for  hot  puddings. 207 
Jelly  sauce  207 


Lemon  sauce   207 

Lemon  sauce   20.^ 

Sauce  208 

Sauce  for  apple  pudding 208 

Sour  sauce  209 

Supej'ior  pudding  sauce 200 


PIES  AND  SHORTCAKES. 


Apple    kuchen    211-212 

Apple  pie    212 

Apple  custard  pie 212 

Berry  pie   213 

Buttermilk  pie 213 

Cheese  tarts    213 

Cranberry  pie   213 

Cream  pie  214-215 

Currant  pie   215 

Custard  pie   215 

Fruit   custard   pie ..215 

Green  tomato  pie 216 

Jelly  pie  216 

Kaese  kuchen    216 

Lemon  pie 217-219 


Mince   meat    220-222 

Mock  mince   meat    223 

Mock  mince  pie   223 

Pie.  to  bake  a 211 

Pie  cxust   209-211 

Pear  pie    224 

Pieplant  for  pies 224 

I*ieplant   pies    224 

Prune    pie    225 

Pumpkin  pie    225 

Ready  fruit  pies 226 

Short    cake     226-227 

Sour   cream   pie    214-215 

Strawberry  pie   226 

Vinegar  pie   226 


Desserts,  Ice  Creams  and  Sherbets, 


A    dainty    dessert    228 

Angel  parfait    228 

Apple  float  229 

Apple  shape    ; 229 

Baked  apples 229 

Baked  bananas  230 

Baked  peaches    229 

Baked  pears,  quinces    230 

Baked  pieplant  230 

Banana  cream 231 

Banana  dessert    231 

Banana  salad    238 

Caramel    tapioca    230 

Chocolate   cream    ....2.32 

Creamed  apples 230 

Delicious  cream 232 


Date  whip    235 

Floating  island   236 

Fruit   jelly    2.37-238 

Fruit  salad    239 

Grape-nut  salad   239 

Himmel   futter    240 

Italian  cream 232 

Maple  Bavarian  cream 233 

Maple   syrup   parfait    240 

Marshmallow  salad  239 

Peach  whip   235 

Persian   cream    233 

Pineapple  cream  234 

Prune  whip   2.36 

Rothe  gruetze   240 

Strawberry  sponge 241 


INDEX. 


443 


Desserts,  Ice  Creamsand  Sherbets-  Continued 


Swedish  cream   234 

Swiss  cream  . 234 

Variegated   cream    235 

Ice  cream    241-243 

Ice  cream,  chocolate  243 

Ice  cream,   coeoamit    244 

Ice  cream,  coffee   244 

Ice  cream,   excellent    245 


Ice  cream,  hot  sauce  for.... 245 

Ice  cream,  maple  245 

Lemon   ice    246 

Lemon  milk  sherbet 246-247 

Orange  ice   246 

Pineapple  sherbet 247 

Strawberry  ice 246 

Strawberry    nectar    248 


LOAF  CAKES. 


Almond    cake    240 

Angel    cake    250 

Angel   cake,   mock 251 

Angel  food    250-251 

Apple  sauce  cake    251 

Apricot    cake .252 

Best  ever  cake 252 

Bishop's  bread    253 

Bride's  cake 253 

Bristol   cake    253 

Brown  cake   254 

Cherry    cake    ; 254-255 

Chocolate  cake 255-25G 

Citron  cake 257 

Cocoanut   cake    257 

Coffee  cake  257-259 

Cream  cake    260 

Crumb  cake   260 

Date  cake 261 

Devil's    food     261-262 

Dough  cake   262 

Dried  apple  cake 263 

Dutch  cake 263 

Eggless,     butterless,     milkless 

cake   263 

Farina  cake  264 

Frankie's  birthday  cake 264 

Fruit  cake 264-267 

German  cake  267 

German  date  cake 268 

Ginger  bread    . .  .• 268-270 

Ginger  cake    270-271 


Graham  cake 271 

Groom's   cake    271 

Hickory   nut  cake 272 

Hot  water  cake 273 

Kaffee  kuchen 259 

Marble  cake 273 

Molasses  cake  274 

Moss  cake    ( birthday ) 274 

Mother's  sour  cream  cake ....  275 

Novelty  cake   275 

One  egg  cake 275 

Orange  cake 276 

Plain  cake   277 

Pork   cake    276 

Potato  cake 277 

Pound  cake    278 

Quick  cake  278 

Raisin  cake 279 

Rodon  kuchen  279 

Sand  cake    280 

Sour  apple  cake 280 

Spanish  bun 280 

Spice  cake   281 

Sponge  cake   281-284 

Stollen    284-285 

Sunshine  cake   285-286 

Sweet  cream  cake    2SG 

Tea  cake  286-287 

Wedding  cake  287 

White  cake  288-289 

Yeast  loaf   289 


444 


WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


LAYER  CAKES, 


Brown  stone   front 290 

Caramel  cake  290-291 

Cheap  cream  cake 293 

Chocolate  cake 291-293 

Cocoa  cake 294 

Confectioner's  cake  294 

Cream  mit  cake  295 

Cream  rose  cake    295 

Cream  sponge  cake 296 

Devil's  food 296-297 

Fig  cake  298 

Flake   cake    29S 

German  tart  cake 29S 

Hickory  nut  cake 299 

Holland   cake    300 

Ice  cream  cake 300 

Lemon  cake 300 

Marshmallow  cake 301 

Molasses  layer  cake 302 

Nougat  cake 302 

Old  fashioned  cream  cake ....  302 

Prince  of  Wales'  cake 303 

Railroad  cake  303 

Raisin  cake 303 

Ribbon  cake 304 

Spice  cake   304 

Thanksgiving  cake 305 

Tutti  frutti  cake 305 

Walnut  cake 306 

White  layer  cake 306 

Almond  filling  307 

Apple  filling 307 


Apple  lemon  filling 307 

Banana  filling  308 

Bitter  sweet  frosting 308 

Boiled  icing  308 

Caramel  filling   309 

Chocolate  filling  309 

Chocolate  frosting 309-310 

Cocoanut  filling   311 

Coffee   cake   dressing 311 

Cooked  icing 311 

Cream  filling  312 

Cream  frosting   312 

Custard  filling 313 

Delicious  cake  filling 313 

Filling 318 

Fig  filling   314-315 

Fruit    filling    315 

Hickory  nut  filling 315 

Ice  cream  filling 315 

Icing    316 

Lemon  filling 316 

Maple  filling   316 

Nut  filling 317 

Marshmallow  filling 317 

Orange  filling    318 

Orange  icing    318 

Prince  Bickler  filling 318 

Raisin  filling  319 

Sour  cream  filling 319 

Sweet  cream  filling 319 

Whipped  cream  filling 320 

White  frosting   320 


Miscellaneous  Cakes  and  Torten. 


Almond  sticks  320 

Berliner  pfannkuchen 321 

Blitz  kuchen 322 

Cheese  fingers    322 

Cheese  straws  323 

Chocolate  jumbles   323 

Cinnamon  drops   323 


Cinnamon  stars    324 

Cocoanut  cakes  324 

Cream  puffs   324-326 

Comfits    326 

Crullers    326 

Doughnuts 326-330 

Drop  cakes 331 


INDEX. 


445 


Miscellaneous  Cakes  and  Torten— Continued. 


Fried  cakes 330 

German  almond  cakes 330 

Himmel  flitter 332 

Honey  cakes 332-333 

Lady  fingers 333 

Lemon  cheese  cakes 333 

Macaroons    334 

Oatmeal  drop  cakes 334 

Original  pie  cake 334 

Pepper  cakes  335 

Pepper  nuts   335-336 

Rocks    336-337 

Roll  jelly  cake 337-338 

Snow   balls    338 

Sugar  cakes  339 

Sultans    339 

Tablets    340 

Torte,  almond    340-341 

Torte.  angel   cake    341 

Torte,  apple 342 

Torte,  blaetter    342 


Torte,  blitz    342 

Torte,  brot 343-344 

Torte,  chocolate    344 

Torte,  cranberry 344 

Torte,  creme    345 

Torte,  date     345-346 

Torte,  farina   346 

Torte,  filbert    347 

Torte,  French    347 

Torte,  fruit    347-348 

Torte,  himmel  348 

Torte,  mandel  349-350 

Torte,  mocha 350 

Torte,  nut 351 

Torte,  potato    351-352 

Torte,  rye  bread 352 

Torte,  sand    352 

Torte,  schaum  353 

Torte,  Zwieback   353 

Wafers    353-355 

Whistles    355 


COOKIES 


Almond  cookies 356 

Ammonia  cookies   356-357 

Anise  cookies 357 

Brown  cookies 357 

Chocolate  cookies 358 

Christmas  cookies 359 

Cookies    359-361 

Cream   cookies    362 

Crumpets    362 

Eier  plaetzchen 363 

English  butterteich   363 

Flott  klingeln .363 

Fig  cookies  (filled) 364 

Fruit  cookies 364 

German  Christmas  cookies . . .  365 
Ginger  cookies    365 


Ginger  creams    366 

Ginger  snaps    366-367 

Hermit    cookies    367-368 

Hermits     368 

Hickory  nut  cookies 369 

Molasses  candy  cookies 369 

New  Year's  cookies 369 

Oatmeal  cookies    370-371 

Old  fashioned  cookies 371 

Old  German  cookies   372 

Sour   cream    cookies 372 

Sugar  cookies   372 

Sunshine  cookies 372 

Sweet  cookies   373 

Vanilla   cookies    373 

White  cookies  373 


446 


WEST   BEND   COOK  BOOK. 


CANDY. 


Butter  scotch 375 

Caramels    375-376 

Cocoanut  candy  376 

Cocoanut  caramels    -.376 

Cream  candy    376-377 

Cream  candies    377 

Cocoanut  puffs 379 

Cracker   Jack    389 

French   cream   candy 379 

Fruit  candy  379 

Fudges    380 

Fudges,  chocolate  380 

Fudges,  cocoa    380 

Fudges,  cocoanut   381 

Fudges,  double    381 


Fudges,  Smith    College 381 

Fudges,  vanilla  382 

Kisses  388 

Macaroons    387-388 

Marshmallows  382 

Mexican  creams   383 

Molasses  candy  383 

Peanut   candy    383-384 

Penuchi    384 

Peppermint  creams   385 

Popcorn  balls    389 

Salted  almonds  389 

Sauerkraut  candy   885 

Sea  foam   385 

Taffy    386-387 


BEVERAGES. 


Chocolate    393 

Cocoa  393 

Coffee    391 

Coffee   for   one   hundred 391 

Coffee,  Vienna  392 

Excellent  tonic   394 

Ginger  drink 394 

Grape  juice   394 

Lemonade  395 

Milk   shake    395 


Nectar   395 

Oatmeal  drink 395 

Orangeade    396 

Pineapple  vinegar    396 

Raspberry  shrub 396 

Raspberry  vinegar  396 

Syrup  of  vinegar  396 

Tea    392 

Tea,  iced 392 

Tea,  Russian     ' 392 


FRUIT  CANNING,  Etc. 


Apple  butter    412 

Apples  and  cranberries 399 

Apples,  preserved     404 

Beans,    canned 413 

Canning,    table   for 414 

Cherry   relish    402 

Crabapples,  spiced  405 

Cranberries 401 

Currant  relish 402 

Currants,  spiced   405-406 


Fruit  jelly    (French) 398 

Fruit   juices    399 

Gooseberry  jam 410 

Grape  catsup 403 

Grape  jelly    403 

Green  grape  jelly 403 

Grapes,  spiced 406 

Green  tomato  preserves 409 

Orange  marmalade    411 

Orange  peel,  candied   412 


INDEX. 


447 


FRUIT  CANNING,  Etc. -Continued. 


Peaches,    canned    400 

Peach  roll    410 

Pears,  canned 400 

Pieplant  marmalade   412 

Pieplant  and  blackberries  . . .  401 

Pieplant  and  pineapple 401 

Pineapple,  canned    399 

Plum   preserves    ....  . .  409 

Quince  honey 411 

Quince  jam    410 

Raspberry  jelly   403-401 

Rhubarb,  spiced   407 


Ripe    tomato    preserves 409 

Rule  for  marmalades   408 

Rules,  preserves  and  jams.  . .  .408 

Rule  for  sweet  pickles 408 

Strawberries,   canned    401 

Strawberry  jam   411 

Sunshine  preserves   410 

Tomatoes,    canned     402 

Tomato  jam  411 

Tomatoes,  spiced    407 

To  can   fruit    ." 397-398 

To  preserve  berries  whole . . .  397 


HELPS  TO  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 


Useful  hints  41.5-41!) 

Meats  and  accompaniments.  .420 


Weights    and    measures 421 


DIET  FOR  THE  SICK 


Arrowroot  gruel   428 

Beef    tea    427 

Calves'  feet  broth 423 

Chicken  broth   426 

Eggs     423 

Egg  lemonade 424 

Farina  pudding    427 

Junket  424 

Junket,  egg    424 

Junket,  cocoa   424 

Junket,  coffee    425 


Junket,  strawberry,    vanilla.. 425 

Koumyss   425 

Milk    425 

Milk,  peptonized 426 

Panopepton    preparations    .  .  .427 

Panopepton    428 

Panopepton  bouillon    428 

Panopepton  jelly  with  orange.42S 

Savoury  custard  426 

Scotch  beef  broth '. 426 

Scraped  beef  sandwiches 427 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


A  substitute  for  butter 429 

Baking  powder   430 

Brine  for  meat .430 

Camphor  ice    435 

Cough  syrup    432 

Dandelion  tonic 433 

Eczema  cure    436 

Flaxseed  tea   434 

Gargle  for  sore  throat 434 

Liniment  for  rheumatism.  ..  .4.34 


Mullein  tea    435 

Onion  gruel    434 

Onion  syrup     432 

Recipe  for  hams -!31 

Remedy  for  sore  throat. ..  ..4.33 
Sailor's  dysentery  medicine.  .435 

Slippery  elm  bark  tea 435 

Sweet  pickle  for  meat 431 

To    keep    butter 429 

Washing    fluid    436 


448  WEST  BEND  COOK  BOOK. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  481  627  4 


