'4S^ 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 


au+ — 


......  GxrpijriBljt  l^u.- 

Slielf..A-136 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


J  J 


f 


Economy  and  Wealth 
Temperance  and  Health  in  the  Household 


The 

White  Ribbon 

Cook 

Bool<: 


A  COLLECTION  OF  ORIGI  NAL  AN  D  REVISED 

RECIPES  IN  COOKERY  AND 

HOUSEKEEPING 


^ 


EDiqiGD  BY 


KATHRYN  ARMSTRONG 


MARIS  189^-^ 


'^OfWk^^^t 


CHICAGO:  "^     7fiV%L 

The  Woman'?  Temperance  Publishing  Associatwn 


THE   TEMPLE 


\\  oa-. 


K 


ic 


^ 


COPYRIGHT,    1894 
BY  THE  SCHULTE  PUBLISHING  COMPANY 


PREFACE 

The  beoipes  in  this  volume  have  been  most 

carefully  selected  and  are  the  result  of  practical 

experience,  all  of  them  having  been  tested  by 

myself  or  by  other  practical  housekeepers.     I 

am  under  obligatioSis  to  many  friends  in  America 

and  in  Europe,   and  I  wish  to    extend  thanks 

specially   to  those  women  in  all   parts  of  the 

world,  interested  in  the  cause  of  temperance,  who 

have  sent  contributions.     I  trust  that  they  and 

all  who  may  have  occasion  to  use  this  little  book 

will  be  satisfied  with  my  effort  to   prove   that 

wine,  brandy  and  spirituous  liquors  of  any  kind 

may  be  dispensed  with,  and   that  no  culinary 

requirement    necessitates   the    introduction    of 

these  poisons  into  any  household. 

K.A. 


.  Contents  .  .  . 


Introductory ^ 

Boiling S 

Roasting 9 

Broiling 9 

Frying ^0 

Cooking H 

Soups ^4 

Fish 29 

Oysters,  Shellfish,  etc 40 

Poult7'y  and  Game 46 

Meats 58 

Beef 59 

Pork 66 

Veal 68 

Mutton 73 

Curries 79 

Gh^avies 84 

Sauces 87 

Stocks 96 

Vegetables 98 

Salads 119 

"  Pickles 126 


CONTENTS 

Eggs jLdO 

Catsups,  etc 137 

Forcemeats 140 

Bread  and  Cakes 142 

Pastry 173 

Dessert 210 

Home-made  Candies 212 

Ice-Cream,  Ices,  etc 221 

Preserves 229 

Canned  Fruits,  Jellies,  etc 240 

Dairy  Dishes 258 

Beverages 255 

Sick-room  Cookery 261 


THE  WHITE  RIBBON 

Cook  Booli 


FROM  the  richest  to  the  poorest,  the  selec- 
tion and  preparation  of  food  often  becomes 
one  of  the  chief  objects  in  Kfe.  The  resources 
of  every  family  may  be  greatly  increased  by  the 
knowledge  of  what  may  be  called  trilling 
details,  and  refinement  in  the  art  of  cookery 
depends  much  more  on  the  manner  of  doing  a 
thing  than  on  the  cost  attending  it.  To  cook 
well  is  immensely  more  important  to  the  middle 
and  working  classes  than  to  the  rich,  for  they 
who  live  by  the  "  sweat  of  their  brow,"  whether 
mentally  or  physically,  must  have  the  requisite 
strength  to  support  their  labor.  Every  wife, 
mother  or  sister  should  be  a  good  plain  cook. 
If  she  has  servants  she  can  direct  them,  and  if 
not,  so  much  the  more  must  depend  upon  her- 
self. 

An  old  saying,  to  be  found  in  one  of  the 
earliest  cookery  books  —  "First  catch  your 
hare,"  etc. — has  more  significance  than  is  gener- 
ally supposed.  To  catch  your  hare  well,  you 
must  spend  your  income  judiciously.  This  is 
the  chief  thing.  In  our  artificial  state  of  society, 
every  income,  to  keep  up  appearances,  has  at 


8  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

least  half  as  much  more  to  do  as  it  can  afford. 
In  the  selection  of  provisions  the  hest  is  gener- 
ally the  cheapest.  Half  a  pound  of  good  meat 
is  more  nutritious  than  three  times  the  amount 
of  inferior.  As  to  vegetables,  buy  them  fresh. 
Above  all,  where  an  income  is  small  and  there 
are  many  to  feed,  be  careful  that  all  the  nour- 
ishment is  retained  in  the  food  that  is  pur- 
chased. This  is  to  be  effected  by  careful  cook- 
ing. Cleanliness  is  an  imperative  condition. 
Let  all  cooking-utensils  be  clean  and  in  order. 
Uncleanliness  produces  disorder,  and  disorder 
confusion.  In  the  cooking  of  meat  by  any  pro- 
cess whatever,  remember,  above  all,  to  cook  the 
juices  in  it,  not  out  of  it. 

Boiling. 

In  boiling,  put  the  meat,  if  fresh,  into  cold 
water,  or,  if  salt,  into  luke-warm.  Simmer  it 
very  gently  until  done.  It  is  a  general  rule  to 
allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  every  pound  of 
meat;  but  in  this,  as  in  everything  else,  judg- 
ment must  be  used  according  to  the  bone  and 
shape  of  the  joint,  and  according  to  the  taste  of 
the  eaters.  All  kinds  of  meat,  fish,  flesh  and 
fowl,  should  be  boiled  very  slowly,  and  the 
scum  taken  off  just  as  boiling  commences.  If 
meats  are  allowed  to  boil  too  fast  they 
toughen,  all  their  juices  are  extracted,  and  only 
the  fleshy  fiber,  without  sweetness,  is  left;  if 
they  boil  too  long  they  are  reduced  to  a  jelly, 


Roasting — Broiling.  9 

and  their  nourishing  properties  are  transferred 
to  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled.  Nothing 
is  more  difficult  than  to  boil  meat  exactly  as  it 
should  be;  close  attention  and  good  judgment 
are  indispensable. 

Roasting. 

In  roasting  meat  the  gravy  may  be  retained 
in  it  by  pricking  the  joint  all  over  with  a  fork 
and  rubbing  in  pepper  and  salt.  Mutton  and 
beef  may  be  underdone;  veal  and  pork  must  be 
well  cooked.  Young  meat  generally  requires 
more  cooking  than  old;  thus  lamb  and  veal 
must  be  more  done  than  mutton  and  beef.  In 
frosty  weather  meat  will  require  a  little  more 
time  for  cooking.  All  joints  for  roasting  will 
improve  by  hanging  a  day  or  so  before  cooking. 

Broiling. 

Broiling  is  the  most  nutritious  method  of 
cooking  mutton  and  pork  chops,  or  beef  and 
rump  steaks,  kidneys  (which  should  never  be 
cut  open  before  cooking),  etc.  Have  the  grid- 
iron clean,  and  put  over  a  clear  fire;  put  the 
meat  on  it;  "keep  it  turned  often."  This  last 
is  a  common  direction  in  books,  but  the  reason 
why  is  never  stated :  it  is  to  keep  the  gravy  in 
the  meat.  By  letting  the  one  side  of  a  steak 
be  well  done  before  turning,  you  will  see  the 
red  gravy  settled  on  the  top  of  the  steak,  and  so 
the  meat  is  hard  and  spoiled.  This  is  cooking 
the  gravy  out,  instead  of  keeping  it  in  to  nour- 
ish the  consumer.  Never  stick  the  fork  in  the 
meaty  part;  you  will  lose  gravy  if  you  do.     Be 


10  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

sure  to  turn  often,  and  generally  the  chop  or 
steak  is  done  if  it  feels  firm  to  the  fork;  if  not 
done,  it  will  be  soft  and  flabby. 

Frying. 

Although  very  bad  for  chops  or  steaks,  the 
frying-pan  is  indispensable  for  some  things, 
such  as  veal  cutlets,  lamb  chops  (sometimes), 
fish,  pancakes,  etc.  Most  meats  and  fish  are 
usually  fried  with  egg  and  bread  crumbs.  The 
frying-pan  must  be  kept  clean.  This  is  very 
essential,  as  the  dirt  that  sticks  to  the  pan  ab- 
sorbs the  fat,  prevents  the  meat  browning  and 
turns  it  black.  Have  a  clear,  brisk  fire,  for  the 
quicker  meat  is  fried  the  tenderer  it  is.  Ac- 
cording to  what  is  to  be  fried,  put  httle  or 
much  fat  in  the  pan;  fish  and  pancakes  require 
a  considerable  quantity.  The  fat  must  always 
boil  before  putting  the  meat  into  it;  if  not,  it 
coddles.  For  veal  cutlets  a  little  butter  is  best 
and  most  economical,  as  it  helps  to  make  the 
gravy.  Some  cooks  have  a  few  slices  of  bacon 
with  cutlets  or  liver ;  the  fat  from  this,  if  the 
bacon  be  not  rank,  will  do  very  nicely;  and  if 
the  meat  be  well  flavored  and  fried  quickly,  and 
some  nice  gravy  made  to  it,  few  persons  would 
know  the  difference.  Some  like  thickened  and 
some  plain  gravy  to  these  fried  meats ;  some  a 
large  quantity,  others  very  little;  all  these 
must  be  accommodated.  To  make  these  gravies, 
have  ready  a  little  burnt  sugar  to  brown  with ; 
empty  the  pan  of  the  fat,  if  it  be,  as  is  most 
likely,  too  rank  to  use;  put  warm  water  in  the 
pan;    mix  very  smoothly   sufficient  flour    and 


Cooking  Time-Table.  11 

water  to  thicken  it  to  taste;  into  this  put  as 
much  butter  as  you  like  to  use  (a  little  will  do, 
more  will  make  it  richer);  pepper  and  salt  it 
sufficiently ;  stir  it  very  smoothly  into  the  pan 
while  the  water  is  only  warm;  stir  it  well  until 
it  boils,  and  brown  it  with  the  burnt  sugar  to 
your  taste.  Care  must  be  taken,  after  the  gravy 
boils,  not  to  let  it  boil  fast  for  any  length  of 
time,  as  all  thickened  gravies,  hashes,  etc.,  boil 
away  very  fast  and  dry  up;  neither  must  it 
stand  still  in  the  pan ;  a  whitish  scum  then  set- 
tles on  the  top  and  spoils  the  ajDpearance  of  it. 

N.  B. — For  all  frying  purposes  be  particular 
that  the  pan  is  thoroughly  hot  before  using. 

Cooking  Time-Table, 

Baking  Meats. 

Beef  Sirloin — Rare,  8  minutes  for  each  pound; 
well-done,  10  to  15  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Beef  Bibs  or  Bump — 10  to  15  minutes  for  each 
pound. 

Beef  Fillet — 20  to  25  minutes. 

Lamb — Well  done,  15  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Mutton — Rare,    10    to    12    minutes    for    each 
pound;  well  done,  15  to  18  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Pork — Well  done,  25  to  30  min.  for  each  pound. 

Veal — Well  done,  18  to  20  min.  for  each  pound. 

Braised  Meat — S}/^  to  4  hours. 

Chickens — Weighing  from  3  to  5  pounds,  1  to 
13^  hours. 

Turkeys — Weighing  from  9  to  12  pounds,  3  to 
S}4  hours. 

Fish — Of  average  thickness,  weighing  from  6 
to  8  pounds,  1  hour. 


12  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Cake  and  Pastry. 

Sponge  Cake — 45  to  55  minutes. 
Plain  Cake — 20  to  45  minutes. 
Cookies — 10  to  12  minutes. 
Gingerbread — 20  to  30  minutes. 
Plum  Pudding — 2}^  to  3  hours. 
Tapioca  or  Rice  Pudding — 1  hour. 
Bread  Pudding — 65  minutes. 
Pies  tvith  two  crusts — 30  to  40  minutes. 
Graham  Rolls — 3^  hour. 
Wheat  Rolls — 10  to  18  minutes. 
Bread — 40  to  60  minutes. 
Biscuit — 10  to  18  minutes. 

Boiling-. 

Beefsteak — Cut  13^  inches  thick,  5  to  8  minutes. 

Beefsteak — 1  inch  thick,  3  to  5  minutes. 

Mutton  Chops — 8  to  10  minutes. 

Chickens — 18  to  25  minutes. 

Fish — Thin,  4  to  8  minutes. 

Fish — Thick,  10  to  15  minutes. 

Ham — 7  to  10  minutes. 

Boiling  Fish. 

Bass — 10  minutes  for  each  pound. 
Bluefish — 10  minutes  for  each  pound. 
Fresh   Cod  or  Haddock  —  6  minutes  for  each 
pound. 
Halibut — In  square,  15  minutes  for  each  pound. 
Salmon — In  square,  15  minutes  for  each  pound. 
Small  Fish — 6  to  8  minutes  for  each  pound. 
Oysters — 3  to  4  minutes,  or  until  the  edges  orrl. 

Boiling"  Meats. 

Veal — 2  or  3  hours. 
Beef — 3  or  4  hours. 
Mutton — 2  or  3  hours. 


Cooking  Tbue-Table.  13 

Ham — 5  fco  53^  hours. 
Sweetbreads — 20  to  25  minutes. 
Chickens — 1  to  IJ^  hours. 
Foivls — 2  to  3  hours. 
Tongue — 2  to  3  hours. 

Yeg-etables. 

String  Beans — 1}^  to  2  hours. 
Shell  Beans — 1  to  2  hours. 
Cavliflowei — 30  to  40  minutes. 
Cabbage,  l^ew — 30  to  45  minutes. 
Corn,  Yo^mg — 5  to  10  minutes. 
Carrots — 50  to  60  mirutes. 
Asparagus — 15  to  18  minutes. 
Onions — 35  to  45  minutos. 
Oyster  Plant — 40  to  60  minutes. 
Peas — 15  to  20  minutes. 
Potatoes — Boiled,  20  to  30  minutes. 
Potatoes — Steamed,  30  to  45  minutes. 
Turnips — 35  to  50  miinutes. 
Parsnips — 35  to  45  minutes. 


SOUPS 


THE  true  economy  of  soups  lies  in  the  fact 
that  so  many  things  which  might  other- 
wise be  wasted  may  be  utilized  in  making 
them.  In  households  where  expenditure  is  not 
so  much  a  consideration,  it  may  be  deemed  ex- 
pedient always  to  purchase  fresh  meat  for  the 
sole  purpose  of  making  soup,  but,  in  such 
instances,  the  soup  could  certainly  not  be  re- 
garded as  an  economical  addition  to  a  dinner. 
Still,  where  Economy  must  rule,  the  resources 
from  which  she  may  draw  a  tureen  of  good 
soup,  without  having  recourse  to  the  butcher, 
are  ample.  Almost  everything  that  is  used  as 
food  may  be  converted  into  soup.  Scra23S  of 
meat,  bread,  vegetables,  rice,  sago,  spare  milk, 
and,  better  still,  bones  left  from  the  meat  after 
cooking,  may,  with  a  little  ingenuity,  be  made 
into  excellent,  nourishing  soup. 

The  basis  of  all  good  soup  is  stock.  This 
may  be  made  from  meat  or  bones  and  flavored 
with  vegetables.  Let  it  be  borne  in  mind  that 
no  good  stock  can  be  made  the  day  it  is  required 
for  SOU23.  It  should  be  made  the  previous  day, 
strained  into  a  basin,  and  allowed  to  stand  until 
required,  when  the  fat,  which  would  render  the 
soup  so  objectionable,  will  have  cooled  on  the 
top  and  may  be  taken  off  entirely.  The  stock 
may  then  be  used  as  the  basis  of  any  kind  of 
soup. 

In  making  stocks  or  soups  care  must  be 
taken  to  simmer  gently,  not  boil,  or  they  will 
be  found  wanting  both  in  flavor  and  nourish- 
ment. The  lid  of  the  stock-pot  must  be  kept 
tightly   closed,    or   there  will   be   considerable 

14 


Soups.  15 

•waste  daring  the  long  time  which  the  contents 
must  of  necessity  simmer.  It  will  be  necessary 
to  remove  the  lid  a  few  times  in  order  to  take 
off  the  scum  as  it  rises. 

"When  preparing  the  stock,  all  the  meat  used 
should  be  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  the  bones 
broken  or  crushed.  Cold  water  and  salt  should 
be  added,  and  the  whole  brought  very  gradually 
to  simmering  point,  the  vegetables  being  added 
after  the  stock  has  been  well  skimmed. 

On  no  account  must  stock  be  left  in  an  iron 
stock-pot  any  length  of  time,  or  it  will  contract 
a  very  unpleasant  flavor.  It  must  be  poured 
into  an  earthenware  vessel  and  remain  uncov- 
ered. To  those  about  to  purchase  a  stock-pot 
we  would  recommend  an  earthenware  rather 
than  an  iron  one  as  being  more  cleanly  and  not 
necessitating  the  emptying  out  of  the  stock 
when  finished. 


To  Color  Soups — To  obtain  a  green  color 
pound  spinach  leaves  and  add  the  juice  obtained 
to  the  stock.  For  a  red  color  use  tomatoes,  with- 
out the  skins  and  seeds.  For  amber  grate  a 
carrot  and  mix  with  the  soup,  and  for  a  rich 
brown  use  burnt  sugar  or  burnt  onions. 

Macaroni  Soup — Five  cents'  worth  of  bones, 
1  tablespoonful  salt  and  peppercorns,  1  good- 
sized  turnip  and  4  leeks,  2  carrots,  4  onions,  2 
cloves,  1  blade  of  mace,  1  bunch  of  herbs,  (mar- 
joram, thyme,  lemon-thyme  and  parsley),  }^  lb. 
macaroni. 

Time  required,  about  2^  hours.  Break  up  the 
bones  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  cold 
water  enough  to  cover  them  and  1  quart  more. 


16  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

When  on  the  point  of  boiling  put  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt  to  help  the  scum  to  rise,  then  take  the 
turnip,  peel  it  and  cut  it  in  quarters;  then  take 
2  carrots,  wash  and  scrape  them;  take  also  4  leeks, 
wash  and  shred  them  up  finely;  now  take  4 
onions,  peel  them  and  stick  2  cloves  into  them; 
then  skim  the  soup  well  and  put  in  the  vegetables, 
add  a  blade  of  mace  and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  pepper- 
corns, then  allow  soup  to  simmer  for  2)^  hours, 
then  take  }^  lb.  of  macaroni,  wash  and  put  in  a 
stewpan  with  plenty  of  cold  water  and  a  little 
salt.  Allow  it  to  boil  until  tender,  then  strain  off 
the  water  and  pour  some  cold  water  on,  to  wash 
the  macaroni  again;  then  cut  in  small  pieces  and 
it  is  ready  for  the  soup.  When  the  soup  is  ready 
for  use  strain  it  over  the  macaroni. 

Milk  Soup — 4  potatoes,  2  leeks  or  onions,  2 
oz.  butter,  pepper,  }^  oz.  salt,  1  pint  milk,  3 
tablespoonfuls  tapioca. 

Put  2  quarts  of  water  into  a  stewpan,  then  take  4 
potatoes,  peel  and  cut  in  quarters,  take  also  2 
leeks,  wash  well  in  cold  water  and  cut  them  up; 
when  the  water  boils  put  in  potatoes  and  leeks, 
then  add  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
Allow  it  to  boil  to  a  mash,  then  strain  the  soup 
through  a  colander,  working  the  vegetables 
through  also;  return  the  pulp  and  the  soup  to  the 
stewpan,  add  one  pint  of  milk  to  it  and  boil; 
when  boiling  sprinkle  in  by  degrees  tapioca, 
stirring  all  the  time;  then  let  it  boil  for  16  min- 
utes gently. 

Spring  Vegetable  Soup — 2  lbs.  shin  of  beef, 
2  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal,  a  little  salt,  2  young  carrots, 
1  turnip,  1  leek,  }/2  head  of  celery,  1  cauliflower, 
1  gill  of  peas,  }^  saltspoonful  of  carbonate  of 
soda. 

Cut  the  meat  from  the  bone — do  not  use  the 
fat;  break  the  bones  in  halves;  do  not  use  the 


Soups.  17 

marrow.  Pat  the  meat  and  bones  into  a  stock- 
pot  with  five  pints  of  cold  water,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  will  assist  the  scum  to  rise,  boil  quickly 
and  remove  scum  as  it  rises,  then  simmer  gently 
6  hours.  Cut  carrots  and  turnips  in  slices;  the 
head  of  celery  and  leek  wash  well  and  cut  in 
squares ;  cut  the  cauliflower  in  sprigs  after  wash- 
ing. One  hour  before  serving  add  vegetables; 
the  sprigs  of  cauliflower  can  be  put  in  15  minutes 
before  serving.  Put  one  gill  of  peas,  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  saitspoonful  of  soda 
into  boiling  water  and  boil  15  minutes,  then 
put  peas  in  tureen  and  put  soup  over  them. 

Good  Oravy  Soup— l  lb,  beef,  l  pound  veal, 
1  lb.  mutton,  6  quarts  water,  1  crust  of  bread,  1 
carrot,  1  onion,  a  little  summer  savory,  4  cloves, 
pepper  and  a  blade  of  mace. 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  and  put  into  the 
water,  with  the  crust  of  bread  toasted  very  crisp. 
Peel  the  carrot  and  onion,  and,  with  a  little 
summer  savory,  pepper,  4  cloves  and  a  blade  of 
mace,  put  in  the  stewpan.  Cover  it  and  let  it 
stew  slowly  until  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  3  qts. 
Then  strain  it,  take  off  the  fat,  and  serve  with 
sippets  of  toast. 

Scotch  Mutton  Broth — 2  qts.  of  water,  neck 
of  mutton,  4  or  5  carrots,  4  or  5  turnips,  3  onions, 
4  large  spoonfuls  of  Scotch  barley,  salt  to  taste, 
some  chopped  parsley. 

Soak  a  neck  of  mutton  in  water  for  an  hour; 
cut  off  the  scrag,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pot  with 
two  quarts  of  water.  As  soon  as  it  boils  skim  it  * 
well,  and  then  simmer  it  an  hour  and  a  half;  then 
take  the  best  end  of  the  mutton,  cut  it  into  pieces 
(two  bones  in  each),  take  some  of  the  fat  off,  and 
put  in  as  many  as  you  think  proper;  skim  the 
moment  the  fresh  meat  boils  up,  and  every  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  afterwards.     Have  ready  4  or  5 


18  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

carrots,  the  same  number  of  turnips,  and  3 
onions,  all  cut,  but  not  small,  and  put  them  in 
soon  enough  to  get  quite  tender;  add  4  large 
spoonfuls  of  Scotch  barley,  first  wetted  with  cold 
water.  The  meat  should  stew  three  hours.  Salt 
to  taste,  and  serve  all  together.  Twenty  minutes 
before  serving  put  in  some  chopped  parsley.  It 
is  an  excellent  winter  dish. 

A  Eoast  Beef  and  Boiled  Turkey  Soup — 

Bones  of  a  turkey  and  beef,  2  or  three  carrots,  2 
or  3  onions,  2  or  3  turnips,  3^  doz.  cloves,  pepper, 
salt,  tomatoes,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  some 
bread. 

The  liquor  that  the  turkey  is  boiled  in,  and 
the  bones  of  the  turkey  and  beef,  put  into  a 
soup-pot  with  2  or  3  carrots,  turnips  and  onions, 
3^  dozen  cloves,  pepper,  salt  and  tomatoes,  if 
you  have  any;  boil  it  4  hours,  then  strain  all  out. 
Put  the  soup  back  into  the  pot,  mix  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  into  a  little  cold  water;  stir  it 
into  the  soup;  give  it  one  boil.  Cut  some  bread 
dice-form,  lay  it  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen, 
pour  the  soup  on  it,  and  color  with  a  little  soy. 

White  Soup — 3  potatoes,  3  leeks,  or  a  few 
green  onions,  3  quarts  water  or  stock,  a  small 
teacupful  sago,  1  pint  milk,  2  oz.  butter. 

Boil  the  potatoes  and  onions  in  the  stock  until 
quite  tender,  then  mash  them  through  a  sieve 
with  a  little  of  the  stock.  Return  the  whole  to 
the  saucepan,  add  the  milk.  Sprinkle  in  the  sago 
gradually,  stirring  well.  When  the  sago  has 
boiled  clear  and  tender,  stir  in  the  butter  and 
serve.  If  water  be  used  instead  of  stock,  3^  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  should  be  added  with  the  pota- 
toes and  leeks,  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Greek  Soup — 4  lbs.  lean  beef,  1  lb.  lean  mutton, 
1  lb.  veal,  4  oz.  lean  ham,  4  carrots,  4  onions,  1 


Soups.  19 

head  celery,  a  little  soy,  a  few  allspice  and  a  few 
coriander  seeds,  some  pepper  and  salt,  10  quarts 
water. 

Cut  up  the  beef,  mutton  and  veal  into  small 
pieces,  and  throw  into  a  stewpan  with  10  quarts 
of  cold  water;  add  a  little  salt,  and  then  place  on 
the  stove  to  boil;  take  off  the  scum,  add  a  little 
cold  water,  and  take  off  the  second  scum;  then 
cut  up  the  carrots,  onions  and  celery  and  throw 
in  the  pot;  add  a  little  more  salt,  a  few  allspice, 
and  coriander  seeds;  let  it  simmer  6  hours,  color 
the  soup  with  a  little  soy,  and  strain  it  through 
a  fine  cloth;  take  off  any  fat  that  may  be  on  the 
soup  with  a  sheet  of  paper;  before  sending  to 
table  boil  the  soup,  and  place  in  the  tureen  a 
little  fried  lean  ham  cut  into  small  pieces. 

Griblet  Soup — 3  sets  of  ducks'  giblets,  2  lbs. 
beef,  some  bones,  shank  bones  of  two  legs  of 
mutton,  3  onions,  some  herbs,  pepper  and  salt, 
carrots,  3  quarts  water,  }^  pint  cream,  1  oz. 
butter,  1  spoonful  flour. 

Thoroughly  clean  3  sets  of  ducks'  giblets,  cut 
them  in  pieces,  and  stew  with  2  lbs.  of  beef,  some 
bones,  the  shank  bones  of  2  legs  of  mutton,  3 
small  onions,  some  herbs,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  carrots,  for  3  hours  in  3  quarts  of 
water.  Strain  and  skim,  add  i^  pint  of  cream 
mixed  with  one  ounce  of  butter  kneaded  with  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  serve  with  the  giblets. 
(Only  the  gizzard  should  be  cut.) 

Potato  Soup  —  2  lbs.  potatoes,  a  pinch  of 
celery  seed,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  2  quarts  white 
stock,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Boil  or  steam  the  potatoes  very  dry,  mash 
them  very  finely  with  a  fork,  and  add  them 
gradually  to  the  boiling  stock.  Pass  through  a 
sieve,  add  the  seasoning,  and  simmer  5  minutes, 


20  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

adding   1   oz.  of    butter   and    i^   pint  of  milk. 
Serve  with  fried  bread  or  toast. 

Oyster  Soup  a  la  Reiiie— 2  or  3  doz.  small 
oysters,  some  pale  veal  stock,  mace,  cayenne,  1 
pint  boiling  cream. 

Two  or  3  dozen  small  oysters  to  each  pint  of 
soup  should  be  prepared.  Take  the  beards  and 
simmer  them  separately  in  a  little  very  pale  veal 
stock  30  minutes.  Heat  2  quarts  of  the  stock, 
flavor  with  mace  and  cayenne,  and  add  the 
strained  stock  from  the  oyster  beards.  Simmer 
the  fish  in  their  own  liquor,  add  to  it  the  soup 
and  1  pint  of  boiling  cream.  Put  the  oysters  in 
a  tureen,  pour  over  the  soup  and  serve.  If  not 
thick  enough  thicken  with  arrowroot  or  butter 
mixed  with  flour. 

Chicken  Soup  (Brown) — 1  or  2  fowls,  a  bunch 
of  herbs,  1  carrot,  1  onion,  2  oz.  lean  ham,  2  oz. 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  2  quarts  good  stock,  and 
a  little  roux,  a  few  allspice,  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg and  mace. 

Cut  up  the  carrot  and  onion,  and  fry  in  2  oz. 
of  good  butter,  a  nice  light  brown;  add  the  ham 
and  fowls  cut  up  small,  taking  care  to  break  up 
the  bones  with  a  chopper,  add  the  stock,  and 
boil  until  the  fowl  is  cooked  to  rags;  thicken 
with  a  little  roux,  add  the  allspice  and  mace  and 
a  little  grated  nutmeg,  color  with  a  little  soy, 
add  seasoning  to  taste.  Serve  with  the  soup 
some  plain  boiled  rice. 

Beef  Orayy  Soup — Some  beef  water,  2  oz. 
salt  to  every  gallon  of  water,  4  turnips,  2  carrots, 
some  celery,  4  young  leeks,  6  cloves,  1  onion,  3^ 
teaspoonful  peppercorns,  some  savory  herbs. 

Various  parts  of  beef  are  used  for  this;  if  the 
meat,  after  the  soup  is  made,  is  to  be  sent  to  the 
table,  rump  steak  or  the  best  parts  of  the  leg 


Soups.  21 

are  generally  used,  but  if  soup  alone  is  wanted, 
part  of  the  shin  with  a  pound  from  the  neck  will 
do  very  well.  Pour  cold  water  on  the  beef  in 
the  soup  pot  and  heat  the  soup  slowly,  the  slower 
the  better,  letting  it  simmer  beside  the  fire, 
strain  it  carefully,  adding  a  little  cold  water  now 
and  then,  put  in  2  oz.  of  salt  for  every  gallon  of 
water,  skim  again,  and  put  in  four  turnips,  two 
carrots,  some  celery,  4  young  leeks,  6  cloves 
stuck  into  an  onion,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
peppercorns,  and  some  savory  herbs;  let  the 
soup  boil  gently  for  six  hours;  strain. 

Milk  Soil})  with  Termicelli— Salt,  5  pints 
boiling  milk,  5  oz.  fresh  vermicelli. 

Throw  a  small  quantity  of  salt  into  5  pints  of 
boiling  milk,  and  then  drop  lightly  into  it  5  oz. 
ox  good  fresh  vermicelli;  keep  the  milk  stirred 
as  this  is  added,  to  prevent  its  gathering  into 
lumps,  and  continue  to  stir  it  very  frequently 
from  15  to  20  minutes,  or  until  it  is  perfectly 
tender.  The  addition  of  a  little  pounded  sugar 
and  powdered  cinnamon  makes  this  a  very  palat- 
able dish.  For  soup  of  this  description,  rice, 
semolina,  sago,  cocoa-nut,  sago  and  macaroni 
may  all  be  used,  but  they  will  be  required  in 
rather  smaller  jjroportions  to  the  milk. 

Green  Pea  Soup— 4  lbs.  beef,  }4  V^-  green 
peas,  1  gal.  water,  3^  cup  rice-flour,  salt,  pepper 
and  chopped  parsley. 

Four  lbs.  beef,  cut  into  small  pieces,  }4  pk.  green 
peas,  1  gallon  water,  }^  cup  of  rice-flour,  salt, 
pepperand  chopped  parsley;  boil  the  empty  pods 
of  the  peas  in  the  water  1  hour  before  putting  in 
the  beef.  Strain  them  out,  add  the  beef,  and  boil 
slowly  for  1}^  hour  longer;  j-^  hour  before  serv- 
ing, add  the  shelled  peas,  and  20  ntinutes  later,  the 
rice-flour  with  salt,  pepper  and  parsley.    After 


22  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

adding  the  rice-fiour,  stir  frequently,  to  prevent 
scorching.     Strain  into  a  hot  tureen. 

Celery  Soup — The  white  part  of  3  heads  of 
celery,  ^  lb.  rice,  1  onion,  1  quart  stock,  2  quarts 
milk,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  roux. 

Cut  up  the  celery  and  onions  very  small,  boil 
them  in  the  stock  until  quite  tender,  add  the 
milk  and  the  rice,  and  boil  together  until  quite 
a  pulp,  add  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  roux, 
strain  through  a  fine  hair  sieve  or  a  metal  strain- 
er, and  boil  a  few  minutes,  taking  care  it  does 
not  burn.  Serve  some  small  croutons  or  fried 
bread  with  it. 

Tomato  Soup — 4  lbs.  tomatoes,  2  onions,  1 
carrot,  2  quarts  of  stock  or  broth,  pepper  and 
salt  and  a  little  roux,  2  oz.  fresh  butter. 

Cut  up  the  onions  and  carrot,  place  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  the  butter,  and  lightly  fry  them. 
Take  the  seeds  out  of  the  tomatoes,  then  put 
them  in  the  stewpan  with  the  fried  onions  and 
carrot,  add  the  stock,  pepper  and  salt,  and  let 
them  boil  for  1  hour,  occasionally  stirring  them; 
add  a  little  roux  to  thicken  the  soup,  and  strain 
through  a  fine  hair  sieve.  Serve  the  soup  very 
hot,  and  send  to  the  table  with  it  some  small 
pieces  of  fried  bread,  sprinkled  with  chopped 
parsley. 

Tomato  Soup  without  Meat — 1  can  toma- 
toes, 2  large  onions,  ^  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  salt,  pepper. 

Take  1  can  of  tomatoes,  press  through  the 
colander  and  set  on  the  fire  where  it  will  stew 
gently.  Slice  2  large  onions  very  thin  and  add 
to  the  tomatoes.  Let  it  stew  %  hour,  then  add 
14,  pint  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed 
in  2  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let 
it  boil  3  minutes,  when  it  is  done.  Serve  with 
bits  of  toasted  bread. 


Soups.  23 

Soup  a  la  Daupliine— 6  lbs.  of  lean  beef,  4 
carrots,  2  turnips,  4  onions,  1  head  celery,  4  oz. 
lean  ham,  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  soy,  2  bay 
leaves,  a  bunch  of  herbs,  a  few  allspice,  2  blades 
of  mace,  5  qts.  water. 

Cut  up  the  onions,  carrots,  turnips  and  celery 
into  small  pieces,  and  lay  in  the  bottom  of  a 
large  stewpan;  cut  up  the  6  lbs.  of  lean  beef, 
and  lay  on  the  top  of  the  vegetables,  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  over  it,  and  cook  over  the  fire  (taking 
care  it  does  not  burn)  for  2  hours;  add  5  qts.  of 
water,  and  bring  it  to  the  boil;  take  off  the  fat 
and  scum,  add  a  little  more  cold  water,  and  throw 
in  3  blades  of  mace,  2  bay  leaves,  a  bunch  of 
herbs,  4  oz.  of  lean  ham  cut  up  very  fine,  and  a 
few  allspice,  color  a  light  brown  with  a  little 
soy,  and  simmer  for  5  hours,  and  then  strain 
through  a  fine  cloth,  and  with  a  sheet  of  paper 
take  off  any  floating  fat;  boil  again,  and  before 
serving  throw  in  the  soup  some  green  taragon 
leaves  and  a  little  chervil. 

Julienne  Soup — 1  carrot,  1  turnip,  1  stick  of 
celery,  3  parsnips,  2  or  3  cabbage  leaves,  butter, 
lettuce,  1  handful  of  sorrel  and  chervil,  stock, 
salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  in  very  small  slices  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  a 
stick  of  celery,  3  parsnips,  and  2  or  3  cabbage 
leaves,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  butter,  and 
give  them  a  nice  color,  shaking  the  saucepan  to 
prevent  them  from  sticking  to  the  bottom,  then 
add  a  lettuce  and  a  handful  of  sorrel  and  chervil 
torn  in  small  pieces,  moisten  these  with  stock  and 
leave  them  on  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
boil  up,  add  the  whole  of  the  stock  and  boil 
gently  for  3  hours;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  President  Harrison's  Clear  Soup— 

4  lbs.  lean  beef,  4  qts.  water,  1  teaspoonf ul  celery 


24  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

seed,  2  small  onions,  2  small  carrots,  1  bunch 
parsley,  6  blades  mace,  16  whole  cloves,  the 
whites  of  4  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Cut  the  beef  in  pieces  of  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
taking  care  not  to  leave  a  particle  of  fat  on  them. 
Pour  on  it  the  water  and  let  it  boil  up  3  times, 
Bkimming  well  each  time;  for  if  any  of  the  grease 
is  allowed  to  go  back  into  the  soup  it  will  be 
impossible  to  get  it  clear.  Scrape  the  carrots, 
stick  4  cloves  firmly  into  each  onion,  and  put 
them  in  the  soup.  Then  add  the  celery  seed, 
parsley,  mace,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  this  boil 
until  the  vegetables  are  tender,  then  strain 
through  a  bag,  return  to  the  soup-pot,  and  stir 
in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Boil  until 
the  eggs  gather  to  one  side,  skim  off,  and  color 
a  delicate  amber  by  burning  a  dessertspoonful 
of  brown  sugar  and  stirring  it  into  the  soup  until 
eufiBciently  colored.  Wash  the  bag  in  warm 
water,  pour  the  soup  through  again,  and  serve. 

Clear  Soup — 1  quart  brown  stock,  }4  lb.  very 
lean  beef,  1  onion,  1  carrot,  2  whites  of  eggs. 

Carefully  remove  the  fat  from  the  meat,  chop 
it  fine  and  put  it  in  a  basin  of  cold  water,  just 
stirring  it  to  separate  it.  Let  it  stand  5  minutes, 
then  pour  it  into  a  saucepan  with  the  vegetables 
cut  in  pieces,  the  whites  and  broken  shells  of  the 
eggs,  and  the  stock;  whilst  heating  over  the  fire, 
whisk  well  until  it  begins  to  rise,  when  cease,  and 
let  it  boil  2  minutes.  Cover  closely  and  let  it 
stand  quietly  until  there  is  a  thick  crust  on  top, 
then  strain  through  a  jelly  bag  or  soup-cloth. 
Vegetables  cut  into  small  strips,  or  wafers,  and 
boiled  for  10  minutes,  may  be  added  before  serv- 
ing. 

Barley  Soup—  i^  pint  pearl  barley,  1  qt.  white 
stock,  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  gill  cream,  3^  pat  fresh 
butter,  bread. 


Soups.  25 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  pearl  barley  in  a  quart  of 
white  stock  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  pulp,  pass  it 
through  a  hair  sieve,  and  add  to  it  as  much  well- 
flavored  white  stock  as  will  give  a  puree  of  the 
consistency  of  cream;  put  the  soup  on  the  fire, 
when  it  boils  stir  into  it,  off  the  fire,  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  beaten  up  with  a  gill  of  cream;  add  half 
a  pat  of  fresh  butter,  and  serve  with  small  dice 
of  bread  fried  in  butter. 

A  Delicate  and  Delicious  Soup — Three  car- 
rots, 2  turnips,  2  onions,  3  leeks,  1  stick  of  celery, 

2  oz.  butter,  a  little  mutton  broth,  seasoning  to 
taste. 

Cut  up  the  vegetables  small  and  fry  them  in 
the  butter  till  tender  and  of  a  light  brown  color. 
Add  enough  to  keep  them  from  burning,  and 
stew  them  for  an  hour.  Then  rub  through  a 
sieve  with  a  little  more  broth.  Stew  for  a  few 
minutes  longer;  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 

If  properly  done  the  soup  will  be  as  thick  as 
cream. 

Onion  Soup — Water  that  has  boiled  a  leg  or 

neck  of  mutton,  1  shank  bone,  6  onions,  4  car- 
rots, 2  turnips,  salt. 

Into  the  water  that  has  boiled  a  leg  or  neck  of 
mutton  put  the  carrots  and  turnips  and  shank 
bone,  and  simmer  2  hours,  then  strain  it  on  sis 
onions,  first  sliced  and  fried  a  light  brown,  sim- 
mer 3  hours,  skim  carefully,  and  serve.  Put  into 
it  a  little  roll  or  fried  bread. 

Eel  Soup — 3  lbs.  eels,  1  onion,   1  oz.  butter, 

3  blades  mace,  1  bunch  sweet  herbs,  M  ^^'  P^P" 
per-corns,  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  l^  pt. 
cream,  2  qts.  water. 

Wash  the  eels,  cut  them  into  thin  slices  and 
put  them  in  the  stewpan  with  the  butter;  let 
them  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  the 


26  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

water  to  them,  and  add  the  onion  cut  in  small 
slices,  the  herbs,  mace  and  seasoning.  Simmer 
till  the  eels  are  tender,  but  do  not  break  the  flesh. 
Remote  them  carefully,  mix  flour  smoothly  to  a 
batter  with  the  cream,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  pour 
over  the  eels,  and  serve. 

Asparagus  Soup — Twenty-five  heads  of  aspa- 
ragus, 1  qt.  stock,  1  tablespoonful  flour,  1  oz.  but- 
ter, sugar,  pepper  and  salt,  some  spinach  green- 
ing, 1  pat  of  fresh  butter  or  1  gill  of  cream, 
small  dice  of  bread. 

Put  25  heads  of  asparagus  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
qt.  of  stock,  free  from  fat,  let  them  boil  till 
quite  done;  remove  the  asparagus,  pound  it  in  a 
mortar,  then  pass  it  through  a  sieve;  mix  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  1  oz.  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan on  the  fire;  add  a  little  sugar,  pepper  and 
salt,  quantity  sufi&cient  for  the  asparagus  pulp, 
and  the  stock  in  which  the  asparagus  was  origin- 
ally boiled ;  let  the  whole  come  to  a  boil,  then 
put  in  a  little  spinach  greening,  and  lastly  a  pat 
of  fresh  butter,  or  stir  in  a  gill  of  cream.  Serve 
over  small  dice  of  bread  fried  in  butter. 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup — One  bundle  as- 
paragus, 1  qt.  milk,  butter,  flour. 

Wash  the  asparagus,  cut  it  into  pieces,  put  in 
a  saucepan,  cover  with  1  pt.  of  boiling  water, 
boil  gently  for  ^  of  an  hour,  remove  the  tips 
and  put  aside  until  wanted;  press  the  remaining 
part  through  a  colander,  using  the  water  in 
which  it  was  boiled;  put  1  qt.  of  milk  into  a 
double  boiler;  rub  together  one  large  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  and  two  tables poonfuls  of  flour; 
stir  this  carefully  into  the  milk;  stir  constantly 
until  smooth  and  partly  thick.  If,  by  any  care- 
lessness, it  should  look  the  slightest  lumpy,  put 
it  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  double  boiler,  and 
add  the  asparagus  that  has  been  pressed  through 


Soups.  27 

the  colander.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, add  the  asparagus  tips,  and  as  soon  as  the 
whole  is  smoking  hot,  serve.  You  can  not  fail, 
unless  you  allow  the  mixture  to  stand,  then  the 
vegetable  will  separate  from  the  milk  and  give  it 
a  curdled  appearance. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup — One  pt.  can  toma- 
toes, 1  qt.  milk,  parsley,  mace,  butter,  flour,  bay 
leaf,  sugar,  soda. 

To  the  tomatoes  add  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a 
blade  of  mace  and  a  bay  leaf,  and  stew  together 
for  15  minutes.  Rub  together  1  tablespoonfulof 
butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  add  to  1  qt. 
boiling  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens. 
When  ready  to  use  the  soup,  press  the  tomatoes 
through  a  sieve  and  add  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar 
and  ^  teaspoonful  of  soda,  then  the  boiling  milk. 
It  must  not  go  on  the  fire  after  the  tomatoes  and 
milk  are  mixed,  or  it  will  curdle. 

Mulligatawney  Soup— One  chicken  (or  3  rab- 
bits), 3  small  onions,  butter,  curry  powder,  3^ 
lemon,  cloves. 

Cut  up  a  good-sized  chicken  as  for  a  fricassee; 
cut  3  small  onions  in  slices,  put  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  add  the  chicken  and 
onion,  and  stir  till  a  nice  brown;  mix  well  with 
these  a  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder,  4  whole 
cloves,  the  juice  of  3^  a  lemon,  and  salt  to  taste. 
Put  all  in  the  soup  kettle  with  2  qts.  of  water, 
bring  slowly  to  a  boil,  skim  and  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  2  hours.  Three  rabbits  may  be  used 
in  place  of  the  chicken,  if  preferred. 

Corn  Soup — One  can  green  corn,  1  pt.  milk, 
flour,  butter,  1  egg. 

Take  one  can  of  green  corn  and  put  it  on  the 
back  of  the  stove  with  2  qts.  of  hot  water;  let  it 
cook  gently  3^  hour,  then  put  where  it  will  cook 


28  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

more  rapidly.  When  the  corn  is  tender,  pu'c  in  1 
pt.  of  milk,  season  to  taste,  let  it  boil  up,  then 
add  2  tablespoon! uls  of  flour  mixed  with  3  of  but- 
ter. If  you  like  you  may,  after  removing  the 
soup  from  the  Are,  stir  in  one  well-beaten  egg, 
beating  rapidly  to  prevent  curdling. 

Bean  Soup — One  qt.  dried  white  beans,  a  cup 
milk  or  cream,  butter,  soda. 

Soak  1  qt.  of  dried  white  beans  over  night. 
In  the  morning,  drain;  add  2  qts.  of  water;  when 
it  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  pour  off  and  add 
2  qts.  of  fresh  boiling  water,  also  about  }^  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Boil  until  the  beans  are 
soft;  then  press  through  a  sieve  and  return  it  to 
the  kettle.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  a 
cup  of  cream  or  a  cup  of  milk  and  a  bit  of  but- 
ter. If  still  too  thick,  add  more  milk.  Crackers 
buttered  and  browned  in  the  oven  or  squares  of 
bread  browned  in  butter  are  nice  to  serve  with  this. 

Oyster  Soup — Fifty  oysters,  1  pt.  milk,  a  blade 
of  mace,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  teaspoonful 
flour,  powd.  cloves,  salt,  pepper,  chopped  parsley. 

Put  in  a  stewpan  a  pint  of  milk,  a  blade  of 
mace,  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter;  put 
in  another  stewpan  the  juice  from  50  oysters; 
place  them  on  the  stove.  When  the  milk  begins 
to  boil  thicken  it  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
flour  previously  mixed  with  milk;  then  stand  it 
back  on  the  range  where  it  does  not  boil.  When 
the  scam  begins  to  rise  on  the  top  of  the  oyster 
juice  skim  it  off;  then  add  a  pinch  of  powdered 
cioves  and  some  salt  and  black  pepper.  When 
it  begins  to  boil  pour  it  into  the  stewpan  with 
the  milk,  stirring  gently,  so  it  does  not  curdle  or 
lump.  Then  turn  in  the  oysters.  Let  them 
boil  about  1  minute  or  until  the  edges  curl;  then 
turn  into  a  soup  tureen,  where  you  have  prev- 
iously placed  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 
Serve  at  once. 


FISH 

FRESH  water  fish  have  often  a  muddy  smell 
and  taste.  To  take  this  off  soak  the  fish 
in  strong  salt  and  water  after  it  is  nicely 
cleaned,  then  dry  and  dress  it.  The  fish  must 
be  put  in  the  water  while  cold  and  set  to  do 
very  gently,  or  the  outside  will  break  before 
the  inner  part  is  done.  Crimp  fish  should  be 
put  into  boiling  water,  and  when  it  boils  up  put 
a  little  cold  water  in,  to  check  extreme  heat, 
and  simmer  it  a  few  minutes.  Small  fish  nicely 
fried,  covered  with  egg  and  crumbs,  make  a 
dish  far  more  elegant  than  if  served  plain. 
Great  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  garnish- 
ing of  fish.  Use  plenty  of  horse-radish,  parsley 
and  lemon.  If  fish  is  to  be  fried  or  broiled  it 
must  be  wrapped  in  a  clean  cloth  after  it  is  well 
cleaned.  When  perfectly  dry,  wet  with  an  egg 
(if  for  frying)  and  sprinkle  the  finest  bread 
crumbs  over  it;  then,  with  a  large  quantity  of 
lard  or  drijoping,  boiling  hot,  plunge  the  fish 
into  it  and  fry  a  light  brown;  it  can  then  be 
ilaid  on  blotting-paj)er  to  receive  any  grease. 
JButter  gives  a  bad  color;  oil  fries  the  finest 
Icolor  for  those  who  will  allow  for  the  expense. 
Garnish  with  raw  or  fried  parsley,  which  must 
be  thus  done:  When  washed  and  picked  throw 
it  again  into  clean  water;  when  the  lard'  or 
dripping  boils,  throw  the  parsley  into  it  imme- 
diately from  the  water,  and  instantly  it  will  be 
green  and  crisp,  and  must  be  taken  up  with  a 
'slice.  If  fish  is  to  be  broiled,  it  must  be  sea- 
isoned,  flavored  and  put  on  a  gridiron  that  is 
very  clean,  which,  when  hot,  should  be  rubbed 
[with  a  piece  of  suet  to  prevent  the  fish  from 

29 


30  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

sticking.      It  must  be  broiled  on  a  very  clear 
fire  and  not  too  near,  or  it  may  be  scorched. 

Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders  (to  Boil)  —  One 

cod's  head  and  shoulders,  salt  water,  1  glass  of 
vinegar,  horseradish. 

Wash  and  tie  it  up,  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Salt 
the  water,  and  put  in  a  glass  of  vinegar.  When 
boiling,  take  off  the  scum;  put  the  fish  in,  and 
keep  it  boiling  very  briskly  about  3^  hour.  Par- 
boil the  milt, and  roe,  cut  in  thin  slices,  fry,  and 
serve  them.  Garnish  with  horseradish;  for  sauce, 
oysters,  eggs,  or  drawn  butter. 

Stewed  Codfish  in  Brown  Sauce  —  Slice 
the  fish,  take  off  the  skin  and  fry  quickly  a 
fine  brown,  lift  it  out  and  place  in  a  stewpan 
with  boiling  brown  gravy;  add  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  and  some  salt.  Stew  the  fish  gently  until 
it  begins  to  break,  lift  it  on  a  hot  dish,  stir  into 
the  gravy  1}^,  ^^'  of  butter  with  1  teaspoonful  of 
flour  and  a  little  mace.  Boil  the  sauce  1  minute, 
pour  it  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

Salmon  Croquettes  —  The  contents  of  1  can 
of  salmon  from  which  the  oil  has  been  poured 
and  which  has  been  shredded  fine,  1  cupful  of 
fine  bread  crumbs,  1  egg  and  cayenne  pepper 
to  taste;  mix  well,  make  into  balls,  dip  first  into 
beaten  egg  and  then  into  bread  crumbs  or 
cracker  dust;  fry  in  plenty  of  boiling  lard  and 
drain  on  coarse  brown  paper  before  serving. 
Garnish  the  dish  with  parsley  and,  if  you  like, 
slices  of  lemon. 

Salt  Cod  —  Cod,  vinegar  (1  glass),  parsnips, 
cream,  butter,  flour. 

Soak  and  clean  the  piece  you  mean  to  dress, 
then  lay  it  all  night  in  water,  with  a  glass  of 
vinegar.     Boil  it  enough,  then  break  it  into  flakes 


Fish.  31 

on  the  dish;  pour  over  it  parsnips  boiled, beaten 
in  a  mortar,  and  then  boiled  up  with  cream  and 
a  large  piece  of  butter  rubbed  with  a  little  flour. 
It  may  be  served  as  above  with  egg  sauce  instead 
of  the  parsnip,  and  the  root  sent  up  whole;  or 
the  fish  may  be  boiled  and  sent  up  without  flak- 
ing, and  the  sauces  as  above. 

Cod's  Roes  —  One  or  more  cod's  roes,  13^  oz. 
of  butter,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper,  1  grate  of  nutmeg,  1  des- 
sertspoonful of  tomato   sauce  or  vinegar. 

Boil  1  or  more  cod's  roes,  according  to  size, 
till  quite  set  and  nearly  done.  Take  them  out 
of  the  water,  and  when  cold  cut  them  into  slices 
%  of  an  inch  thick.  Now  put  into  a  small  stew- 
pan  1^  oz.  of  butter;  when  made  liquid  over 
the  fire,  take  it  off  and  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of 
2  eggs,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper,  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  and  a  des- 
sertspoonful of  tomato  or  Mogul  sauce,  or  thd 
vinegar  from  any  good  pickle.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether and  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  2  or  3  minutes 
to  thicken.  Dip  the  slices  of  cod's  roe  in  this 
sauce  to  take  up  as  much  as  they  will,  lay  them 
in  a  dish,  pour  over  them  any  of  the  sauce  that 
may  be  left,  put  the  dish  into  the  oven  for  10 
minutes,  and  send  to  table  very  hot. 

Codfish  Balls — Equal  quantities  of  potatoes 
and  boiled  codfish,  1  oz.  butter,  1  egg. 

Equal  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes  and  boiled 
codfish  minced  fine;  to  each  3^  lb.  allow  1  oz.  of 
butter  and  a  well-beaten  egg;  mix  thoroughly. 
Press  into  balls  between  2  spoons;  drop  into  hot 
lard,  and  fry  till  brown. 

Salt  Salmon  (to  Souse)  —  One  salt  salmon, 
cayenne,  whole  allspice,  a  little  mace,  cold 
vinegar. 


32  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Wash  a  salt  salmon,  and  cover  it  with  plenty 
of  clean  water.  Let  it  soak.  24  hours,  but  be 
careful  to  change  the  water  several  times.  Then 
scale  it,  cut  it  into  4  parts,  wash,  clean,  and  put 
on  to  boil.  When  half  done  change  the  water; 
and  when  tender,  drain  it,  put  it  in  a  stone  pan, 
sprinkle  some  cayenne,  whole  allspice,  a  few 
cloves  and  a  little  mace  over  each  piece;  cover 
with  cold  vinegar.  This  makes  a  nice  relish 
for  tea. 

Fish  Pie  —  knj  remains  of  cold  fish,  such 
as  cod  or  haddock.  Clear  the  fish  from  the 
bones,  put  a  layer  of  it  in  a  pie-dish,  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt,  then  put  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  some  grated  nutmeg  and  chopped  pars- 
ley. Repeat  this  until  the  dish  is  quite  full,  pour 
in  some  white  sauce,  cover  with  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs  or  mashed  potatoes.  Bake  }^  to  3^  an 
hour. 

Salmon  (Fried,  with  Anchovy  Sauce)  — 

Some  thin  slices  from  the  tail  end  of  a  salmon, 
anchovy  sauce,  flour,  bread  crumbs,  eggs,  water, 
a  little  roux,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  lard. 

Scrape  the  scales  off  the  tail  end  of  a  salmon, 
cut  in  thin  slices,  dip  them  in  flour,  then  in  2 
eggs  whisked  up  with  a  tablespoonful  of  water 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  then  dip 
them  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard 
for  8  or  10  minutes;  dish  them  up  on  a  napkin 
in  a  nice  heap,  and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  them,  and  serve  in  a  sauceboat  son;ie 
sauce. 

Salmon  (Dressed,  Italian  Sauce)— Two  slices 
about  3  in.  thick  of  good  salmon,  2  onions, 
1  carrot,  1  shallot,  2  gherkins,  a  few  preserved 
miushrooms  and  a  few  capers,  3  oz.  of  butter,  a 
little  chopped  parsley,  1  tablespoonful  of  anchovy 
sauce,  and  a  pint  of  good  stock,  and  a  little  roux. 


Fish.  33 

Cut  up  2  onions  and  1  carrot  into  thin  slices, 
and  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking-dish 
with  a  little  pepper  and  salt  and  1  oz.  of  butter; 
lay  the  slices  of  salmon  on  the  top  of  the  veget- 
ables, cover  them  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake 
for  35  minutes  in  a  warm  oven;  when  cooked, 
serve  with  sauce  made  as  follows:  Cut  up  1 
shallot  very  fine,  and  lightly  fry  in  2  oz.  of  butter; 
throw  in  a  little  chopped  parsley,  2  gherkins 
chopped  fine,  and  a  few  capers  and  mushrooms, 
cut  up  very  fine,  and  1  pt.  of  good  stock,  a  little 
roux  to  thicken,  and  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  anchovy 
sauce  and  a  little  pepper;  boil  these  ingre- 
dients together  for  30  minutes,  lift  the  salmon 
carefully  onto  a  dish  (taking  care  no  onion  or 
carrot  hang  to  it),  pour  the  boiling  sauce  over  it 
and  serve  very  hot. 

Perch  and  Tench  —  Put  them  into  cold  wa- 
ter, boil  them  carefully  and  serve  with  melted 
butter  and  soy.  Perch  is  a  most  delicate  fish. 
They  may  be  either  fried  or  stewed,  but  in  stew- 
ing they  do  not  preserve  so  good  a  flavor. 

Trout  and  Grayling  (to  Fry)  —  Scale,  gut, 
and  wash  well;  then  dry  them,  and  lay  them 
separately  on  a  board  before  the  fire,  after  dust- 
ing some  flour  over  them.  Fry  them  of  a  fine 
color  with  fresh  dripping;  serve  with  crimp 
parsley  and  plain  butter.  Perch  and  tench  may 
be  done  the  same  way. 

Perch  and  Trout  (to  Broil)  —  Split  them 
down  the  back,  notch  them  two  or  three  time 
across,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire;  turn  them 
frequently,  and  baste  with  well  salted  butter  and 
powdered  thyme. 

Mackerel— Boil,  and  serve  with  butter  and 
fennel. 


34  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

To  broil  them,  split,  and  sprinkle  with  herbs, 
pepper  and  salt;  or  stuff  with  the  same,  crnmbs 
and  chopped  fennel. 

Potted:  Clean,  season,  and  bake  them  in  a  pan 
with  spice,  bay  leaves  and  some  bntterj  when 
cold,  lay  them  in  a  potting-pot,  and  cover  with 
butter. 

Pickled:  Boil  them,  then  boil  some  of  the 
liquor,  a  few  peppers,  bay  leaves,  and  some 
vinegar;  when  cold,  pour  it  over  them. 

Mackerel  (Pickled,  called  Caveach)— Six 

mackerel,!   oz,  of  pepper,  2  nutmegs,  a.  little 
mace,  4  cloves,  1  handful  of  salt. 

Clean  and  divide  them :  then  cut  each  side  into 
three,  or,  leaving  them  undivided,  cut  each  fish 
into  five  or  six  pieces.  To  six  large  mackerel, 
take  nearly  an  ounce  of  pepper,  2  nutmegs,  a  little 
mace,  4  cloves  and  a  handful  of  salt,  all  in  the 
finest  powder.  Mix,  and,  making  holes  in  each 
piece  of  fish,  thrust  the  seasoning  into  them;  rub 
each  piece  with  some  of  it;  then  fry  them  brown 
in  oil;  let  them  stand  till  cold,  then  put  them 
into  a  stone  jar  and  cover  with  vinegar;  if  to 
keep  long,  pour  oil  on  the  top.  Thus  done,  they 
may  be  preserved  for  months. 

Mullet  with  Tomatoes  —  One-half  doz.  red 
mullet,  pepper,  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  5  or  6 
tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce. 

Butter  a  baking  dish  plentifully,  lay  on  it  side 
by  side  }4  <ioz.  red  mullet,  sprinkle  them  with 
pepper,  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  then  add  about 
5  or  6  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce.  Cover 
the  whole  with  a  sheet  of  well-oiled  paper,  and 
bake  for  about  3^  hour. 

Soles  —  If  boiled,  they  must  be  served  with 
great  care  to  look  perfectly  white,  and  should  be 
well  covered  with  parsley.     If  fried,  dip  in  eggi 


Fish,  36 

and  cover  them  with  fine  crumbs  of  bread;  set 
on  a  frying-pan  that  is  just  large  enough,  and 
put  into  it  a  large  quantity  of  fresh  lard  or  drip- 
ping, boil  it,  and  immediately  slip  the  fish  into 
it;  do  them  of  a  fine  brown.  Soles  that  haye 
been  fried  are  very  nice  when  cold  with  oil, 
vinegar,  salt  and  mustard. 

Soles  au  Crratin  — Soles,  a  little  stock,  1 
lemon,  a  little  anchovy,  pepper  and  salt,  bread 
crumbs,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  a  little 
vinegar. 

Place  a  sole  in  an  oval  tin  baking-dish,  lay  on 
the  top  a  piece  of  butter,  and  round  it  the  juice 
of  3^  a  lemon  and  a  little  anchovy  sauce,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  little  pepper,  and  then 
bake  it  for  15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven;  when 
nearly  cooked  sprinkle  some  bread  crumbs  over 
it  and  color  the  top  with  a  salamander.  Serve 
in  the  tin  it  was  baked  in,  with  a  little  chopped 
parsley  on  the  top. 

Sturgeon  (Fresh)  —  Sturgeon,  egg,  bread 
crumbs,  parsley,  pepper,  salt. 

Cut  slices,  rub  egg  over  them,  then  sprinkle 
with  crumbs  of  bread,  parsley,  pepper,  salt;  fold 
them  in  paper,  and  broil  gently.  Sauce:  butter, 
anchovy  and  soy. 

Turbot  en  Mayonnaise  —  Some  fillets  of  tur- 
bot,  oil,  tarragon  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper,  eggs, 
cucumbers,  anchovies,  tarragon  leaves,  beets, 
capers,  aspic  jelly. 

Cut  some  fillets  of  cooked  turbot  into  moder- 
ate-sized round  or  oblong  pieces,  carefully  tak- 
ing off  the  skin  and  extracting  all  bones.  Place 
these  pieces  of  fish  into  a  bowl,  with  a  dressing 
made  of  oil,  tarragon  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper. 
As  soon  as  the  fish  is  well  flavored  with  this 
seasoning,  arrange  the  pieces  round  a  dish  like 


36  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

a  crown.  Place  a  circle  of  chopped  hard-boiled 
eggs,  tiny  pickled  cucumbers,  anchovies,  tarra- 
gon leaves,  beetroot  and  capers  round  the  dish, 
and  then  arrange  a  wall  of  aspic  jelly  round  the 
edge  of  the  dish.  Fill  up  the  center  of  the  crown 
of  the  fish  with  good  mayonnaise  sauce. 

Turbot  ail  Gratin  (a  nice  Dish  for  Lun- 
cheon)—  Cold  cooked  turbot,  anchovy  saace,  a 
little  stock,  cayenne  pepper,  2  oz.  butter,  a  little 
flour  and  some  bread  crumbs. 

Place  a  piece  of  butter,  about  2  oz.,  in  a  stew- 
pan  and  melt  it  on  the  fire;  add  a  little  flour, 
then  a  little  anchovy  sauce  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper;  stir  these  well  together  and  then  drop 
in  the  sauce  any  cold  turbot  you  may  have  left 
from  dinner  the  evening  before,  place  some  of 
the  turbot  out  of  the  sauce  in  large  patty  pans, 
and  cover  it  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  it  in  a 
hot  oven;  if  the  top  does  not  get  brown  enough, 
heat  a  salamander  and  finish  off  that  way.  Serve 
the  patty  pans  upon  a  napkin  or  paper. 

Smelts  (to  Fry) — Smelts,  egg,  bread  crumbs, 
lard. 

They  should  not  be  washed  more  than  is 
necessary  to  clean  them.  Dry  them  in  a  cloth, 
then  lightly  flour  them,  but  shake  it  off.  Dip 
them  into  plenty  of  egg,  then  into  bread  crumbs, 
grated  fine,  and  plunge  them  into  a  good  pan  of 
boiling  lard;  let  them  continue  gently  boiling, 
and  a  few  minutes  will  make  them  a  bright  yel- 
low-brown. Take  care  not  to  take  off  the  light 
roughness  of  the  crumbs,  or  their  beauty  will  be 
lost. 

Eel  Pie  —  One  or  two  eels,  seasoning,  gravy, 
gelatine. 

Cut  up  1  or  2  eels  and  stew  gently  until  tender 
in  a  little  good  brown  gravy,  seasoned  to  taste; 


Fish.  37 

when  done  enough,  strain  the  gravy  through 
muslin,  add  gelatine  and  pour  over  the  fish.  A 
few  sprigs  of  parsley  placed  about  the  mould 
will  much  improve  the  appearance. 

Eels  (to  Boil)  —  Clean,  cut  off  the  heads,  and 
dry  them.  Joint  them  into  suitable  lengths,  or 
coil  them  on  your  fish-plate;  boil  them  in  salted 
water.     Use  drawn  butter  and  parsley  for  sauce. 

Haddock  with  Tomatoes  —  One  dried  had- 
dock, 1  onion,  1  oz.  butter,  1  ripe  tomato,  pep- 
per, parsley. 

Soak  a  dried  haddock  in  plenty  of  cold  water 
for  half  a  day,  drain  off  the  water  and  replace  it 
with  boiling  water;  when  the  haddock  has  been 
in  this  for  2  hours,  take  it  out,  carefully  remove 
all  the  bones  and  skin,  and  break  the  meat  into 
flakes;  slice  a  moderate-sized  onion,  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  1  oz.  of  butter;  as  soon  as  the 
onion  is  soft,  add  one  ripe  tomato,  cut  into  slices; 
after  a  couple  of  minutes  add  the  flesh  of  the 
haddock,  a  sprinkling  of  pepper  and  some  finely 
minced  parsley;  shake  the  saucepan  on  the  fire, 
until  the  contents  are  thoroughly  heated,  then 
draw  it  aside,  to  be  kept  warm  till  the  time  for 
serving. 

Fish  Croquettes — Remnants  of  turbot,  brill, 
haddock,  or  salmon,  butter,  pinch  of  flour,  some 
milk,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  parsley. 

From  some  remnants  of  boiled  turbot,  brill, 
haddock,  or  salmon,  pick  out  the  flesh  carefully, 
and  mince  it,  not  too  finely;  melt  a  piece  of  but- 
ter in  a  saucepan,  add  a  small  pinch  of  flour  and 
some  hot  milk;  stir  on  the  fire  until  the  mixture 
thickens,  then  put  in  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  together  with  some  finely-chop- 
ped parsley,  and,  lastly,  the  minced  fish.  As 
soon  as  the  whole  is  quite  hot,  turn  it  out  on  a 


38  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

dish  to  get  cold,  then  fashion  and  finish  the  cro- 
quettes as  in  the  first  recipe. 

Halibut  (Boiled)  — Halibut,  salted  water. 

Allow  the  fish  to  lie  in  cold  salt  water  for  an 
hour.  Wipe  dry  in  a  clean  cloth  and  score  the 
skin,  then  put  into  the  fish-kettle  with  cold  salted 
water  sufficient  to  cover  it.  Let  it  come  slowly 
to  the  boil,  and  allow  from  }-£  to  %  of  an  hour 
for  a  piece  weighing  4  or  5  lbs.  When  ready, 
drain,  and  serve  with  egg  sauce. 

Halibut  (Baked) — Halibut,  a  little  butter, 
salt  and  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  walnut  catsup, 
a  dessertspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  a  little  brown  flour. 

A  piece  of  halibut  weighing  5  or  6  lbs.,  lay  in 
salt  water  for  2  hours.  Wipe  in  a  clean  cloth 
and  score  the  skin.  Have  the  oven  tolerably 
hot,  and  bake  about  1  hour.  Melt  a  little  butter 
in  hot  water  and  baste  the  fish  occasionally.  It 
should  be  of  a  fine  brown  color.  Any  gravy  that 
is  in  the  dripping-pan  mix  with  a  little  boiling 
water,  then  stir  in  the  walnut  catsup  and  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  and 
thicken  with  the  brown  flour  (the  flour  should  be 
mixed  with  a  little  cold  water  previously),  give 
one  boil  and  serve  in  sauce-boat. 

Baked  Herring-S  or  Sprats — Herrings,  all- 
spice, salt,  black  pepper,  1  onion  and  a  few  bay- 
leaves,  vinegar. 

Wash  and  drain  without  wiping  them;  season 
with  allspice  in  fine  powder,  salt,  and  a  few 
whole  cloves;  lay  them  in  a  pan  with  plenty  of 
black  pepper,  1  onion,  and  a  few  bay-leaves;  add 
vinegar  enough  to  cover  them.  Put  paper 
over  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  If  you 
like  throw  saltpetre  over  them  the  night  before, 
to  make  them  look  red.  Gut,  but  do  not  open 
them. 


Fish.  39 

Fish  Chowder  —  Two  lbs.  solid  fish-shreds,  % 
lb.  salt  pork,  4  onions,  10  potatoes,  salt  and  pep- 
per, 2  tablespoonfuls  farina,  milk. 

Take  }^  lb.  fat  salt  pork,  cut  into  slices,  and 
fry  out  well.  Slice  four  large  onions  and  fry  in 
the  pork  fat  until  they  are  a  light  brown.  Stir 
Constantly  to  prevent  burning,  and  thus  make 
the  chowder  better.  Put  this  into  a  pot  with  3 
qts.  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  boil  20  minutes. 
Skim  out  the  pieces  of  pork  and  onion  and  add 
10  potatoes,  sliced,  not  too  thin,  and  boil  20  min- 
utes. Then  add  2  lbs.  of  solid  fish-shreds  and 
boil  10  minutes  if  the  fish  is  not  cooked.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  cooked  stir  in 
slowly  a  thickening  made  of  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
farina  mixed  in  cold  milk,  and  let  it  boil  up  once 
only.  Put  the  pot  back  on  the  fire,  and  after 
letting  it  stand  a  few  moments  skim  off  the 
scum  which  will  rise  to  the  top,  and  serve. 

Planked  Shad  —  Secure  a  handsome,  thick 
oak  board,  and  have  some  holes  bored,  with 
stout  wooden  pegs  to  fit;  spread  the  dressed  fish 
open  on  the  board,  securing  it  with  the  pegs. 
Rest  the  end  of  the  plank  in  a  shallow  pan  and 
set  all  before  a  clear  fire;  put  a  little  salt  and 
water  in  the  pan  and  baste  the  fish  often,  adding 
when  it  is  nearly  done  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter  and  half  as  much  walnut  catsup.  If  the 
board  is  handsome  serve  the  shad  on  it,  but  it 
can  be  laid  on  a  hot  dish  and  the  gravy,  with  a 
little  walnut  catsup  added,  poured  over.  Serve 
with  pickled  walnuts. 


OYSTERS,  SHEIekFISH,  ET6. 

Lobsters  (Potted)  — Lobsters,  mace,  white 
pepper,  nutmeg,  salt  and  butter. 

Half  boil  them,  pick  out  the  meat,  cut  it  into 
small  pieces,  season  with  mace,  white  pepper, 
nutmeg  and  salt,  press  close  into  a  pot,  and 
cover  with  butter,  bake  3^  hour;  put  the  spawn 
in.  When  cold,  take  the  lobster  out,  and  put  it 
into  the  pots  with  a  little  of  the  butter.  Beat  the 
other  butter  in  a  mortar  with  some  of  the  spawn, 
then  mix  that  colored  butter  with  as  much  as 
will  be  sufficient  to  cover  the  pots,  and  strain  it. 
Cayenne  may  be  added  if  approved. 

Lobster  Croquettes  —  Lobster,  pepper,  salt, 
powdered  mace,  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  egg,  biscuit,  parsley. 

To  the  meat  of  a  well-boiled  lobster,  chopped 
fine,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  mace.  Mix 
with  this  one  quarter  as  much  bread  crumbs, 
well  rubbed,  as  you  have  meat;  make  into 
pointed  balls,  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
melted;  roll  these  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  biscuit 
powdered  fine,  and  fry  in  butter  or  very  nice 
sweet  lard.  Serve  dry  and  hot,  and  garnish  with 
crisped  parsley.  This  is  a  delicious  supper  dish 
or  entree. 

Crabs  (Hot)  —  One  good-sized  crab,  pepper, 
salt,  bread  crumbs,  milk,  cream,  or  oiled  but- 
ter, parsley. 

For  this,  1  good-sized  crab  or  3  or  4  small 
ones  may  be  used.  The  meat  must  be  picked' 
from  the  claws  and  the  soft  inside  from  the  body; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  small  quan- 
tity of  bread  crumbs,  and  moisten  with  milk,  or, 
better  still,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream  or  oiled 
butter.  When  well  mixed,  put  it  into  the  large 
shell,  strewing  fresh  bread  crumbs  over  the  top, 
and  sprinkling  some  oiled  butter  over  these;  let 
it  remain  in  the  oven  just  long  enough  to  get  hot 
40 


Oysters,  Shellfish,  Etc.  41 

through  and  to  be  a  nice  golden-brown  color.  It 
should  be  served  very  hot  on  a  napkin  garnished 
with  parsley. 

Crabs  (Boiled)  —  Crabs,  salt  water,  sweet  oil. 

Boil  them  in  salt  and  water  20  minutes;  take 
them  out,  break  off  the  claws,  wipe  the  crabs, 
throw  away  the  small  claws,  and  crack  the  large 
ones  and  send  to  table.  Rub  a  little  sweet  oil  on 
the  shells. 

Oysters  on  Toast — Drain  the  liquor  from  a 
qt.  of  oysters;  cut  each  into  4  pieces,  and  strain 
through  coarse  muslin  back  into  the  sauce. 
When  it  boils  again,  dip  out  a  small  cupful  and 
keep  it  hot.  Stir  into  that  left  on  the  range  a 
liberal  teaspoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  a  scant 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch.  In  another  vessel 
heat  }4,  cup  of  milk.  Stir  the  oysters  into  the 
thickened  liquor;  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  cook,  after  they  are  scalding  hot,  5  minutes 
before  adding  the  milk.  Line  a  hot  platter  with 
neat  slices  of  crustless  toast,  buttered,  wet  with 
the  reserved  liquor,  and  cover  with  the  oysters. 

Oysters  (Stewed)  —  Oysters,  a  piece  of  mace, 
some  lemon  peel,  a  few  white  peppers,  cream, 
butter,  and  flour. 

Open  and  separate  the  liquor  from  them,  then 
wash  them  from  the  grit;  strain  the  liquor,  and 
put  with  the  oysters  a  piece  of  mace  and  lemon 
peel,  and  a  few  white  peppers.  Simmer  them 
very  gently,  and  put  some  cream,  and  a  little 
flour  and  butter.     Serve  with  sippets. 

Oysters  (Stewed)  —  Liquor  from  2  qts.  of 
oysters,  one  teacupful  of  hot  water,  salt,  pepper, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  1  cupful  of  milk. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  2  qts.  of  firm,  plump 
oysters;  mix  with  it  a  small  teacupful  of  hot 
water,  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  set  over 
the  fire  in  a  saucepan.     Let  it  boil  up  once,  put 


42  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

in  the  oysters,  let  them  boil  for  5  minutes  or  less 
— not  more.  When  they  "  rnfQe,"  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter.  The  instant  it  is  melted  and 
well  stirred  in,  put  in  a  large  cupful  of  boiling 
milk,  and  take  the  saucepan  from  the  fire.  Serve 
with  oyster  or  cream  biscuits,  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible. Oysters  become  tough  and  tasteless  when 
cooked  too  much  or  left  to  stand  too  long  after 
they  are  withdrawn  from  the  fire. 

Oyster  Sausages  —  One  doz.  large  oysters, 
^  lb.  rump  steak,  a  little  seasoning  of  herbs, 
pepper  and  salt. 

Chop  all  fine,  and  roll  them  into  the  form  of 

sausages. 

Aug-els  on  Horseback — Oysters,  bacon. 

Trim  the  beards  from  as  many  oysters  as  may 
be  required,  wrap  each  in  a  very  thin  shaving  of 
fat,  streaky  bacon  (cold  boiled  bacon  is  the  best); 
run  them  one  after  the  other  onto  a  silver 
skewer,  and  hold  them  over  a  toast  in  front  of  a 
clear  fire  until  the  bacon  is  slightly  crisp;  serve 
on  the  toast  immediately. 

Escalloped  Lobster  —  Select  lobsters  that 
are  rather  above  the  medium  size;  plunge  them 
in  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour.  When  cool 
enough  to  handle,  split  in  two  and  remove  the 
entrails;  cut  the  meat  into  dice,  being  careful  to 
pick  out  aU  the  meat  from  the  claws.  Prepare 
in  a  farina  kettle  a  pint  of  rich  gravy  made  from 
equal  parts  of  cream  and  milk,  thickened  with  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  creamed  with  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Season  well  with  salt, 
cayenne  pepper  and  a  tiny  pinch  of  grated  nut- 
meg; add  the  lobster  to  the  sauce  thus  made, 
place  in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  cover  with  bread 
crumbs;  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  10  minutes  to 
brown. 


Oysters,  Shellfish,  Etc,  43 

Barbecued  Oysters  —  Drain  a  dozen  large 
oysters,  dust  them  over  with  pepper  and  cut  an 
equal  number  of  thin  slices  of  bacon  of  about 
the  same  size.  First  put  a  slice  of  bacon  and 
then  an  oyster  and  bacon  and  so  on,  alternating, 
on  an  iron  skewer,  taking  care  not  to  crowd 
them,  and  roast  in  a  very  hot  oven  until  the 
bacon  begins  to  crisp.  Serve  hot  in  a  covered 
dish. 

Panned  Oysters  —  Select  large,  fat  oysters, 
split  and  toast  round  crackers,  and  spread  in  the 
bottom  of  a  pan;  drain  the  liquor  from  the  oys- 
ters, put  in  a  saucepan  and  set  on  the  stove  to 
boil;  skim,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a 
little  batter;  moisten  the  toasted  crackers  with 
hot  liquor,  and  lay  the  oysters  over;  spread  with 
bits  of  butter  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  for  15  min- 
utes. 

Scalloped  Oysters  —  Butter  a  baking-dish; 
fill  it  with  alternate  layers  of  rolled  crackers  and 
oysters;  over  each  layer  of  oysters  spread  bits  of 
butter  and  dash  pepper  —  not  salt,  as  it  will 
shrivel  them.  Heat  the  liquor  of  the  oysters, 
add  to  it  1  teacupful  of  cream,  season  to  taste 
and  pour  over  the  oysters.  Set  in  a  moderate 
oven  and  bake  nearly  an  hour. 

Oysters  (Fried)  —  Carefully  dry  in  a  clean 
cloth  a  dozen  large  oysters.  In  a  bright  frying- 
pan  put  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  good  butter, 
and  as  soon  as  this  comes  to  a  boil  throw  in  the 
oysters  and  whip  them  out  with  a  strainer  as 
soon  as  they  begin  to  curl  up,  and  serve  imme- 
diately. Oysters  cooked  in  this  manner  are 
delicious,  but  the  butter  must  be  heated  to  the 
point  when  the  blue  smoke  hovers  over  the  pan. 
To  3  well-beaten  eggs  add  }4  pt,  of  oyster  juice, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  black  or  cayenne  pep- 
per, according  to  taste.     Work  into  this  a  gill  of 


44  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

sweet  oil,  until  the  whole  becomes  a  batter.  On 
a  bed  of  cracker  dnst  on  the  table  lay  your  oys- 
ters, then  take  them  one  by  one  by  the  beard, 
dip  them  in  the  mixture  and  then  in  the  bread 
crumbs.  Repeat  this  three  or  four  times,  first  in 
the  egg  mixture,  then  in  the  bread  crumbs. 
Place  each  oyster  on  the  table  by  itself. 
Do  not  pile  one  on  top  of  the  other  or  they  will 
become  heavy.  Now  fry  in  a  pan  of  hot  butter 
and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Oysters  (Roast)  —  Take  a  dozen  large  oysters, 
wash  them  clean  and  place  them  on  the  coals  of 
a  bright  fire.  As  soon  as  the  shells  open,  pour 
the  juice  into  a  hot  soup-plate,  remove  the  oys- 
ters from  the  shells  with  a  knife,  put  them  in  the 
plate  with  a  lump  of  butter  and  serve  while  hot. 
Oysters  treated  in  this  manner  retain  more  of 
their  flavor  and  are  easier  digested  than  when 
cooked  in  any  other  way. 

Oysters  (Stewed)  —  To  a  pint  of  milk  add 
the  juice  of  25 oysters,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  pep- 
per according  to  taste.  Let  it  boil  for  1  or  2 
minutes,  then  add  your  oysters  and  a  generous 
lump  of  butter. 

Oyster  Patties  —  Make  a  rich  paste,  roll  it 
out  3^  in.  thick,  then  turn  a  teacup  down  on  the 
paste,  and,  with  the  point  of  a  sharp  pen-knife, 
mark  the  paste  lightly  round  the  edge  of  the  cup. 
Then  with  the  point  of  the  knife  make  a  circle 
about  3^  in.  from  the  edge;  cut  this  circle  half 
way  through.  Place  them  on  tins,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Remove  the  center,  and  fill  with 
oysters  seasoned  and  warmed  over  the  fire. 

Oyster  Omelet  —  Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately;  1  tablespoonful  of  cream,  ^ 
teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  wet  with  the  cream,  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dust  of  pepper;  a 
dozen  fine  oysters  broiled. 


Oysters,  Shellfish,  Etc.  45 

Beat  yolks  well,  adding  the  cream  and  corn- 
starch; stir  in  the  stiffened  whites  lightly;  have 
ready  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan, 
hissing  hot,  but  not  browned.  Pour  in  the  ome- 
let, and  as  soon  as  it  sets  at  the  edges,  loosen 
with  a  knife  and  shake  gently  with  a  uniform 
motion  from  side  to  side,  until  the  center  is 
almost  set.  The  oysters  should  have  been 
broiled  before  you  began  the  omelet.  To  do 
this,  roll  them  in  fine  cracker-crust,  salted  and 
peppered,  broil  quickly  over  a  clear  fire,  trans- 
fer to  a  hot  dish,  put  a  bit  of  butter  on  each,  and 
cover  and  keep  hot  while  the  omelet  is  cooking. 
When  this  is  done,  line  one-half  of  it,  as  it  lies 
on  the  pan,  with  the  oysters,  fold  the  other  over 
dexterously  and  reverse  the  frying-pan  quickly 
upon  the  heated  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME 

IN  choosing  ducks,  be  careful  to  secure 
those  with  plump  bodies  and  thick  and 
yellowish  feet,  and,  to  insure  their  being 
tender,  it  is  advisable  to  let  their  hang  a  day  or 
two.  In  choosing  turkeys,  the  hens  are  prefer- 
able for  boiling  on  account  of  their  whiteness 
and  tenderness. 

Partridges  in  perfection  will  have  dark-colored 
bills  and  yellowish  legs ;  the  time  they  should 
be  kept  entirely  depends  upon  the  taste  of  those 
for  whom  they  are  intended,  as  what  some  people 
consider  delicious,  to  others  would  be  disgust- 
ing and  offensive. 

Kabbits  when  young  have  smooth  and  sharp 
claws. 

In  selecting  a  goose,  choose  one  with  a  clean 
white  skin,  plump  breast  and  yellow  feet.  Char- 
coal is  considered  as  an  admirable  preventive  for 
decomposition. 

CMcken  Patties  —  Cold  chicken,  milk,  flour, 
pepper,  salt  and  butter,  puff  paste. 

Mince  cold  chicken,  and  stir  it  into  a  white 
sauce,  made  of  milk  thickened  with  flour  and 
flavored  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter;  line  small 
patty  pans  with  puff  paste,  bake  first,  and  then 
fill  with  the  mixture,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  for  a 
few  minutes  to  brown. 

Fowl  (to  Boil)  —  For  boiling,  choose  those 
that  are  not  black-legged.  Pick  them  nicely, 
singe,  wash  and  truss  them.  Flour  them,  and 
put  them  into  boiling  water.  Serve  with  parsley 
and  butter,  oyster,  lemon,  liver  or  celery  sauce. 

Fowls  (Roast) — Butter,  flour,  gravy,  lemon- 
juice,  sausages,  bacon. 

46 


Poultry  and  Game.  47 

Fowls  require  constant  attention  in  dredging 
and  basting,  and  the  last  ten  minutes  let  butter 
rolled  in  flour  be  stuck  over  them  in  little  bits, 
and  allowed  to  melt  without  basting.  The  gravy 
for  fowls  should  always  be  thickened,  and  slightly 
flavored  with  lemon  juice.  Sausages  or  rolled 
bacon  should  be  served  on  the  same  dish,  and 
white  mashed  potatoes  should  always  be  handed 
with  poultry. 

Chicken  Cutlets  (with  Rice)  —  A  teaspoon- 
ful  of  rice,  some  good  stock,  1  onion,  salt  and 
pepper,  some  cold  ham  and  chicken,  egg,  bread- 
crumbs. 

Boil  a  teacupful  of  rice  in  some  good  stock, 
and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  an  onion  that  lias 
been  cooked  in  butter,  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Pound  separately  in  equal  portions  cold  ham 
and  chicken;  form  this  into  cutlets;  cover  them 
with  egg  and  bread-crumbs  and  fry.  Serve  with 
a  sharp  sauce. 

Chicken  a  la  Jardiniere  —  2  young  chickens, 
butter,  1  onion,  some  savory  herbs,  carrots,  tur- 
nips, onions,  beef  stock,  mushrooms,  2  cabbages, 
some  heads  of  asparagus,  pepper,  sugar. 

Put  two  young  chickens  in  a  saucepan  with 
some  butter,  a  large  onion  chopped  up,  some 
savory  herbs,  some  salt  and  sufficient  water;  the 
chickens  should  be  dropped  in  the  mixture  when 
it  is  boiling,  and  left  in  the  saucepan  until  the 
liquid  is  reduced  by  half;  cut  up  in  good  shapes 
some  carrots  and  turnips,  some  whole  onions 
skinned  and  blanched,  and  put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  some  butter,  some  beef  stock,  some 
mushrooms,  two  very  young  cabbages  and  some 
heads  of  asparagus;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
a  little  sugar;  cook  very  gently,  and  fifteen  min- 
utes before  serving  add  a  piece  of  butter  kneaded 


48  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

with  flour.     Serve  with  vegetables  well  arranged 
around  the  dish. 

Chicken  Rissoles  —  Some  remnants  of  fowls, 
ham  and  tongue,  butter,  a  pinch  of  flour,  white 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  parslev,  eggs,  a  few  drops 
of  lemon-juice,  flour,  water,  3  pinches  of  sugar. 

Mince  very  finely  some  remnants  of  fowls,  free 
from  skin,  add  an  equal  quantity  of  ham  or 
tongue,  as  well  as  a  small  quantity  of  truffles,  all 
finely  minced;  toss  the  whole  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  piece  of  butter,  mixed  with  a  pinch  of  flour; 
add  white  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg  to  taste,  as 
well  as  a  little  minced  parsley;  stir  in  oflf  the  fire 
the  yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs  beaten  up  with  a  few 
drops  of  lemon- juice,  and  lay  the  mixture  on  a 
plafe  to  cool.  Make  a  paste  with  some  flour,  a 
little  water,  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  two  or 
three  of  sugar;  roll  it  out  to  the  thickness  of  a 
penny  piece,  stamp  it  out  in  round  pieces  three 
inches  in  diameter;  put  a  piece  of  the  above 
mince  on  each,  then  fold  them  up,  fastening  the 
edges  by  moistening  them  with  water.  Trim  the 
rissoles  neatly  with  a  fluted  cutter,  dip  each  one 
in  beaten-up  egg,  and  fry  a  golden  color  in  hot 
lard. 

Chicken  (Jellied)  —  A  chicken,  1  oz.of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  3^  packet  of  gelatine. 

Boil  the  chicken  until  the  water  is  reduced  to  a 
pint;  pick  the  meat  from  the  bones  in  fair-sized 
pieces,  removing  all  gristle,  skin  and  bone.  Skim 
the  fat  from  the  liquor,  add  an  ounce  of  butter, 
a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  half  a  packet  of 
gelatine.  Put  the  cut-up  chicken  into  a  mould, 
wet  with  cold  water;  when  the  gelatine  has  dis- 
solved pour  the  liquor  hot  over  the  chicken. 
Turn  out  when  cold. 

Chicken  Loaf — A  chicken,  2  oz.  of  butter, 
pepper,  salt,  egg. 


Poultry  and  Game.  49 

Boil  a  chicken  in  as  little  water  as  possible 
nntil  the  meat  can  easily  be  picked  from  the 
bones;  cut  it  up  finely,  then  put  it  back  into  the 
saucepan  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  a  sea- 
soning of  pepper  and  salt.  Grease  a  square  china 
mould  and  cover  the  bottom  with  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  egg',  pour  in  the  chicken,  place  a  weight 
on  it,  and  set  aside  to  cool,  when  it  will  turn  out. 

Chicken  Cro(Xuettes  —  Breast  of  a  roast  fowl, 
tongues,  truffles,  butter,  flour,  stock,  parsley, 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  eggs,  lemon-juice,  parsley. 

The  breast  of  a  roast  fowl,  two  parts;  of  boiled 
tongue,  one  part,  and  of  truffles, one  part;  mince 
all  these  very  finely,  and  mix  them  together. 
Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  stir  a  little 
flour  into  it,  then  put  in  the  above  mixture,  and 
moisten  with  a  small  quantity  of  stock;  add  some 
finely  minced  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg 
to  taste.  Stir  it  on  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  stir  in  it,  off  the  fire,  the  yolks  of  one  or  two 
eggs  beaten  up  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and 
strained.  Spread  out  this  mince  (which  should 
be  pretty  stiff)  on  a  marble  slab,  and  when  it  is 
nearly  cold  fashion  it  into  small  portions  in  the 
shape  of  balls  or  of  cones.  Dip  each  in  a  beaten- 
up  egg,  and  then  roll  it  in  very  fine  baked  bread- 
crumbs; repeat  this  operation  after  the  lapse  of 
an  hour,  and  after  a  similar  interval  fry  the  cro- 
quettes in  hot  lard  to  a  golden  color.  Serve  on 
a  napkin,  with  plenty  of  fried  parsley. 

Pressed  Cliicken — Two  chickens,  boiled  until 
the  meat  leaves  the  bones  easily,  then  pull  to 
pieces  and  chop  fine,  letting  the  liquor  in  which 
they  were  cooked  boil  down  until  only  a  cupful 
remains.  Add  about  one-half  as  much  chopped 
ham  as  chicken;  roll  two  soda  crackers,  pour  the 
stock  over,  seasoning  highly.  Mix  well  together, 
put  in  a  deep,  long  pan,  pressing  down  hard  with 


50  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

the  hand.  Fold  a  cloth  several  times,  put  over 
the  top,  and  put  on  a  weight.  It  will  slice  nicely 
if  prepared  the  day  before  using. 

Braised  Chicken  —  Draw  and  prepare  a 
chicken  as  for  roasting.  Truss  it  without  filling 
and  place  in  a  baking-pan  over  3^  of  a  small 
carrot  and  1  onion,  chopped  fine,  4  cloves,  1 
sprig  of  parsley  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  To 
this  add  1  pint  of  rich  meat  stock,  cover  closely 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  1}^  hours.  Then 
dish  the  fowl  and  place  it  where  it  will  keep  hot. 
Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan, 
let  it  brown  and  rub  smooth  in  it  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour;  add  to  this  the  liquor  in  which 
the  chicken  was  braised  and  then  twelve  mush- 
rooms, chopped  fine.  Stir  this  continually  until 
it  boils. 

Wild  Duck  (Roast)  —  Duck,  bread-crumbs, 
carrot,  pepper  and  salt,  sage  and  onions,  currant 
jelly,  1  pinch  of  cayenne,  browned  flour. 

Before  roasting,  parboil  with  a  small  carrot 
peeled  and  put  inside.  This  will  absorb  the  fishy 
taste.  If  you  have  no  carrot  at  hand,  an  onion 
will  have  the  same  effect,  but  unless  you  mean  to 
use  onion  in  the  stuffing  a  carrot  is  preferable. 
When  parboiled,  throw  away  the  carrot  or  onion, 
lay  in  fresh  water  for  half  an  hour,  stuff  with 
bread-crumbs  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  sage 
and  an  onion,  and  roast  till  brown  and  tender, 
basting  half  the  time  with  butter  and  water,  then 
with  drippings.  Add  to  the  gravy,  when  you 
have  taken  up  the  duck,  one  tablespoonful  of 
currant  jelly  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Thicken 
gravy  with  browned  flour  and  serve  in  a  tureen. 

Quail  Pie  —  Puff  paste,  salt  pork  or  ham,  6 
eggs,  butter,  pepper,  1  bunch  parsley,  juice  of  1 
lemon. 


Poultry  and  Game.  61 

Clean  and  dress  the  birds,  loosen  the  joints, 
but  do  not  divide  them;  put  on  the  stove  to 
simmer,  while  you  prepare  puff  paste.  Cover  a 
deep  dish  with  it,  then  lay  in  the  bottom  some 
shreds  of  pork  or  ham,  then  a  layer  of  hard 
boiled  eggs,  a  little  butter  and  pepper.  Take  the 
birds  from  the  fire,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
minced  parsley.  Squeeze  lemon  juice  upon 
them,  and  upon  the  breasts  of  the  birds  a  few 
pieces  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Cover  with  slices 
of  egg,  then  shred  some  ham  and  lay  upon  this. 
Pour  in  a  little  of  the  gravy  in  which  the  quails 
were  parboiled,  and  put  on  the  lid.  Leave  a  hole 
in  the  middle  and  bake  a  little  over  1  hour. 

"Rabbit  Pie  — Two  rabbits,  J^  lb.  fat  pork,  4 
eggs,  pepper,  butter,  a  little  powdered  mace,  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  puff  paste. 

Cut  a  pair  of  rabbits  into  ten  pieces,  soak  in 
salt  and  water  half  an  hour  and  simmer  until 
half  done,  in  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Cut  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  pork  into  slices,  and  boil 
four  eggs  hard.  Lay  some  pieces  of  pork  in 
the  bottom  of  the  dish,  the  next  a  layer  of  rab- 
bit. Upon  this  spread  slices  of  boiled  egg  and 
pepper  and  butter.  Sprinkle,  moreover,  with  a 
little  powdered  mace,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice 
upon  each  piece  of  meat.  Proceed  in  this  man- 
ner until  the  dish  is  full,  the  top  layer  being 
pork.  Pour  in  water  in  which  the  rabbit  was 
boiled;  when  you  have  salted  it  and  added  a  few 
lumps  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  cover  with  puff 
paste,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  bake  for  1 
hour.  Cover  with  paper  if  it  should  boil  too 
fast. 

Rabbit  (Stewed)  —  One  rabbit,  dripping  or 
butter,  flour,  6  onions. 

Cut  a  rabbit  in  pieces,  wash  in  cold  water,  a 
little  salted.      Prepare  in  a  stewpan  some  flour 


62  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

and  clarified  dripping  or  butter;  stir  it  until  it 
browns.  Then  put  in  the  pieces  of  rabbit,  and 
keep  stirring  and  turning  until  they  are  tinged 
with  a  little  color;  then  add  6  onions,  peeled  but 
not  cut  up.     Serve  all  together  in  a  deep  dish. 

A  German  Dish — A  tender  fowl,  salt,  pepper, 
mace,  flour,  yolk  of  1  egg,  hot  lard,  liver,  gizzard, 
parsley. 

Quarter  a  tender  fowl,  season  the  pieces  with 
pepper,  salt  and  mace;  flour,  aud  then  dip  them 
in  the  beaten-up  yolk  of  an  egg:  fry  a  golden 
color  in  hot  lard;  dish  them,  garnished  with  the 
liver  and  gizzard  fried  separately,  and  with  fried 
parsley.  Serve  either  with  a  salad  garnished 
with  hard-boiled  eggs  or  tomato  sauce. 

(xiMets  (to  Stew)  —  Salt  and  pepper,  butter, 
1  cup  of  cream,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour. 

Treat  them  as  directed  for  giblet-pie  (under 
the  head  "Pies");  season  them  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  a  very  small  piece  of  mace.  Before 
serving  give  them  one  boil  with  a  cup  of  cream, 
and  a  piece  of  butter  rubbed  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour. 

Pig-eons — May  be  dressed  in  many  ways.  The 
flavor  depends  very  much  on  their  being  cropped 
and  drawn  as  soon  as  killed.  No  other  bird  re- 
quires so  much  washing.  Pigeons  left  from  din- 
ner the  day  before  may  be  stewed  or  made  into 
a  pie;  in  either  case  care  must  be  taken  not  to 
overdo  them,  which  will  make  them  stringy. 
They  need  only  be  heated  up  in  gravy,  made 
ready,  and  force-meat  balls  may  be  fried  and 
added,  instead  of  putting  a  stuffing  into  them. 
If  for  a  pie,  let  beefsteaks  be  stewed  in  a  little 
water,  and  put  cold  under  them,  and  cover  each 
pigeon  with  a  piece  of  fat  bacon,  to  keep  them 
moist.     Season  as  usual. 


Poultry  and  Game,  53 

Pig-eons  (Roast)  —  Should  be  stuffed  with 
parsley,  either  cut  or  whole,  and  seasoned  within. 
Serve  with  parsley  and  butter.  Peas  or  aspar- 
agus should  be  dressed  to  eat  with  them. 

Turkey  (to  Roast)  — The  sinews  of  the  legs 
should  be  drawn,  whichever  way  it  is  dressed. 
The  head  should  be  twisted  under  the  wing;  and 
in  drawing  it  take  care  not  to  tear  the  liver,  nor 
let  the  gall  touch  it.  Put  a  stuflSng  of  sausage- 
meat,  or,  if  sausages  are  to  be  served  in  the  dish, 
a  bread  stufl&ng.  As  this  makes  a  large  addition 
to  the  size  of  the  bird,  observe  that  the  heat  of 
the  fire  is  constantly  to  that  part;  for  the  breast 
is  often  not  done  enough.  A  little  strip  of  paper 
should  be  put  on  the  bone  to  hinder  it  from 
scorching  while  the  other  parts  roast.  Baste 
well  and  froth  it  up.  Serve  with  gravy  in  the 
dish,  and  plenty  of  bread-sauce  in  a  sauce-tureen. 
Add  a  few  crumbs  and  a  beaten  egg  to  the  stuf- 
fing of  sausage-meat. 

Roast  Turkey  —  Plain  force-meat,  1  turkey, 
bacon,  butter,  salt,  pork  sausages,  gravy. 

Pluck,  singe,  draw,  wipe  thoroughly  and  truss 
a  fine  turkey;  stuff  it  with  plain  force-meat,  pack 
it  up  in  some  thin  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  over 
that  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper;  put  in  oven,  bast- 
ing frequently  with  butter.  A  quarter  of  an 
hour  before  it  is  done,  remove  the  paper  and 
slices  of  bacon.  Sprinkle  with  salt  just  before 
serving.  Garnish  with  pork  sausages,  and  serve 
with  a  tureen  of  gravy.  Time  of  roasting,  2  or 
3  hours,  according  to  size. 

Partridg-e — Dress  1  doz.  nice  partridges;  put 
them  in  a  baking-pan  with  1  lb.  good  butter,  a 
small  teacupful  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  water,  2 
pods  red  pepper,  3>2  teaspoonful  ground  black 
pepper,  and  salt  to  suit  your  taste.  Put  the  pan 
into  the  stove,  which   must  be  hot   enough  to 


54  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

cook  them  at  once;  ^  of  an  hour  is  generally 
sufficient.  When  the  birds  are  brown  all  over, 
which  they  will  be  if  you  have  basted  them  dili- 
gently as  you  turned  them,  set  the  pan  on  the 
top  of  the  stove,  pour  in  at  once  1  quart  of  fresh 
sweet  cream,  adding  ^^  teacupful  of  grated  bis- 
cuit crumbs;  stir  well  to  keep  from  burning, 
and  serve  in  a  few  minutes  on  a  warm  platter. 

To  Cook  Ducks — Prepare  as  many  ducks  as 
you  wish  for  a  meal  and  cut  them  up  as  you 
would  to  stew.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  then  pour  off  the  water,  adding 
a  fresh  supply.  Boil  until  tender,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  then,  pouring  off  the  water,  fry 
brown  in  butter.  This  is  a  splendid  dish;  the 
parboiling  takes  out  all  the  wild  taste  which 
ducks  usually  have.  Old  prairie  chickens  may 
be  treated  in  the  same  way. 

Roast  CrOOSe — Prepare  the  goose  the  same  as 
a  chicken.  Fill  with  potato  or  onion  stuffing, 
being  careful  not  to  fill  it  too  full,  as  this  dress- 
ing will  always  swell  in  cooking.  Place  it  in  a 
baking-pan  with  1  cupful  of  water  and  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  allow- 
ing 25  minutes  for  each  pound,  basting  it  fre- 
quently. When  the  goose  has  been  roasting  an 
hour,  cool  the  oven  and  finish  the  roast  at  a 
moderate  heat.  Goslings  may  be  cooked  in  the 
same  manner,  allowing  15  minutes  to  each  pound. 

Potato  Stiiifing  for  Geese  or  Ducks — Mix 

together  2  cupfuls  hot  mashed  potatoes,  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  onion  juice,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  I4  teaspoonful  black  pepper, 
1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  butter  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Beat  until 
light. 


Poultry  and  Game,  55 

Truffle  and  Chestnut  Stuffing— One  lb.  fat 

bacon,  2  shallots,  1  lb.  chestnuts,  )4,  lb.  truffles, 
pepper,  salt,  spices,  thyme,  marjoram. 

Mince  1  lb.  of  fat  bacon  and  a  couple  of  shal- 
lots, give  them  a  turn  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan; 
then  put  in  1  lb.  of  chestnuts,  boiled  and  peeled, 
and  3^  lb.  of  truffles,  both  cut  up  in  moderate- 
sized  pieces;  add  pepper,  salt  and  spices  to 
taste;  also  a  little  powdered  thyme  and  mar- 
joram. Give  the  mixture  another  turn  or  two 
on  the  fire,  and  it  is  ready. 

Truffle  Sauce — Rub  a  saucepan  with  a  shallot, 
melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  it,  add  a  very  small 
quantity  of  flour  and  the  trimmings  of  the  truf- 
fles chopped  coarsely;  moisten  with  some  good 
stock  free  from  fat,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  the  least  piece  of  nutmeg.  Let  the  sauce 
simmer  about  10  minutes,  and  it  is  ready. 

To  Boil  a  Turkey— Pick,  singe,  draw  and 
wash  it.  Truss  it  by  drawing  the  legs  in  under 
the  skin;  fasten  them  with  a  piece  of  tape  round 
the  joints,  and  tie  it  round  the  rump.  Make  a 
stuffing  of  bread-crumbs,  pepper  and  salt,  or  of 
chopped  oysters,  and  put  it  where  the  crop  was 
taken  out.  Boil  slowly  for  2  hours,  take  off  the 
tape,  and  serve  with  either  oyster,  celery  or 
plain  white  sauce. 

Chestnut  Sauce  (for  Koast  Turkey)  — Re- 
move the  outer  skin  from  a  number  of  chestnuts 
(carefully  excluding  any  that  may  be  the  least 
tainted),  put  them  to  boil  in  salted  water  with  a 
handful  of  coriander  seeds,  and  a  couple  of  bay 
leaves.  When  thoroughly  done,  remove  the  outer 
skin,  and  pound  the  chestnuts  in  a  mortar,  add- 
ing a  little  stock  (free  from  fat)  now  and  then. 
When  a  smooth  paste  is  obtained,  fry  an  onion 
in  butter  to  a  light  color,  add  the  chestnut  paste 


56  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

and  sufficient  stock  to  get  the  sauce  of  the 
desired  consistency;  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  pass  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  serve. 

Roast  Haunch  of  Venison  —  Butter,  salt, 
flour  and  water. 

Trim  the  joint  neatly,  wipe  it  well  with  a  cloth, 
rub  it  over  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt; 
then  wrap  it  up  in  a  sheet  of  buttered  kitchen 
paper.  Make  a  paste  with  flour  and  water,  roll 
it  out  to  the  thickness  of  about  half  an  inch, 
wrap  the  joint  in  this,  and  close  up  all  the  open- 
ings carefully  by  wetting  the  edges  of  the  sheet 
of  paste;  lastly,  pack  up  the  haunch  into  a  sheet 
of  well  buttered  paper,  put  in  the  oven  for  about 
three  hours,  basting  occasionally,  then  remove 
the  paste  and  paper  coverings,  baste  the  haunch 
plentifully  with  butter,  and  when  nearly  done 
dredge  some  flour  over  it  and  some  salt.  Serve 
on  a  hot  water  dish. 

Breast  of  Venison  (Stewed)  —  One  onion,  i 
carrot,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  a  few  cloves, 
pepper  and  salt,  common  stock,  butter,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  1  squeeze  of  lemon. 

Remove  the  bones  and  skin,  roll  it  up  and  tie 
it  with  a  string  in  the  shape  of  a  round  of  beef, 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  an  onion  and  carrot, 
sliced,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  a  few  cloves  and 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  add  common  stock 
sufiicient  to  come  up  to  the  piece  of  venison, 
cover  up  the  stewpan  and  let  the  contents 
simmer  gently  for  about  three  hours,  turning 
the  meat  occasionally;  when  done  strain  as  much 
of  the  liquor  as  will  be  wanted  for  sauce,  into  a 
saucepan  containing  a  piece  of  butter,  pre- 
viously melted  and  well  mixed  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  stir  the  sauce  on  the  fire  until 
it  thickens,  then  add  a  squeeze  of  lemon;  pour 
it  over  the  meat  in  a  dish  and  serve. 


Poultry  and  Game.  67 

Wild  Ducks  (Stewed)  —  Pepper,  salt,  flour, 
butter,  gravy  made  of  the  gibiets,  neck,  and  some 
pieces  of  veal,  1  shallot,  1  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
}4,  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk  in  which  an  egg  has 
been  beaten,  brown  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of 
wine,  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Prepare  to  parboil  for  ten  minutes.  Lay  in 
cold  water  for  half  an  hour.  Cut  into  joints, 
pepper,  salt  and  flour  them.  Fry  a  light  brown 
in  some  butter.  Put  them  in  a  stewpan  and 
cover  with  gravy  made  from  the  giblets,  necks, 
and  some  pieces  of  veal.  Add  a  minced  shallot, 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  salt  and  pepper.  Cover 
and  stew  for  half  an  hour  or  until  tender,  take 
out  the  duck,  skim  the  gravy  and  strain;  add 
half  a  cup  of  cream,  or  some  rich  milk  in  which 
an  egg  has  been  beaten,  thicken  with  brown 
flour,  and  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  The 
lemon  juice  must  be  beaten  in  slowly,  or  the 
cream  may  curdle.  Boil  up  and  pour  over  the 
ducks  and  serve. 


MEATS 

IN  purchasing  beef  secure  meat  of  a  deep  red 
color,  with  the  fat  mingled  with  the  lean, 
giving  it  a  mottled  appearance.  The  fat 
will  be  firm,  and  the  color  resembling  grass 
butter.  The  smaller  the  breed,  so  much  sweeter 
the  meat.  It  will  be  better  for  eating,  if  kept  a 
few  days.  Veal,  lamb  and  pork  (being  white 
meat )  will  not  keep  more  than  a  day  or  two. 

Beef  —  For  roasting,  the  sirloin  and  rib 
pieces  are  the  best.  The  chief  object  is  to  pre- 
vent the  escape  of  the  juices,  and  if  you  are 
roasting  in  an  oven,  it  is  a  very  good  plan  to 
throw  a  cup  of  boiling  water  over  the  meat  when 
it  is  first  put  in  the  oven.  This  will  prevent  the 
escape  of  the  juices  for  a  while,  and  will  thor- 
oughly warm  through  the  meat. 

Mutton  —  Choose  this  by  the  fineness  of  its 
grain,  good  color,  and  firm  white  fat.  It  is  not 
the  better  for  being  young;  if  of  a  good  breed 
and  well-fed,  it  is  better  for  age;  but  this  only 
holds  with  wether-mutton;  the  flesh  of  the  ewe 
is  paler,  and  the  texture  finer.  Eam-mutton  is 
very  strongly-flavored;  the  flesh  is  of  a  deep 
red,  and  the  fat  is  sj)on gy. 

La:mb  —  Observe  the  neck  of  a  fore-quarter ; 
if  the  vein  is  bluish  it  is  fresh ;  if  it  has  a  green 
or  yellow  cast  it  is  stale.  In  the  hind-quarter, 
if  there  is  a  faint  smell  under  the  kidney,  and 
the  knuckle  is  limp,  the  meat  is  stale.  If  the 
eyes  are  sunken,  the  head  is  not  fresh.  Grass- 
lamb  comes  in  season  in  April  or  May,  and  con- 
tinues till  August.  House-lamb  may  be  had  in 
great  towns  almost  all  the  year,  but  is  in  high- 
est perfection  in  December  and  January. 

58 


Meats.  59 

Pork  —  Pinch  the  lean,  and  if  young  it  will 
break.  If  the  rind  is  tough,  thick,  and  cannot 
easily  be  impressed  by  the  finger,  it  is  old.  A 
thin  rind  is  a  merit  in  all  pork.  When  fresh, 
the  flesh  will  be  smooth  and  cool ;  if  clammy,  it 
is  tainted.  What  is  called  measly  pork  is  very 
unwholesome,  and  may  be  known  by  the  fat 
being  full  of  kernels,  which  in  good  pork  is 
never  the  case.  Pork  fed  at  still-houses  does 
not  answer  for  curing  any  way,  the  fat  being 
spongy.  Dairy-fed  pork  is  the  best.  A  sucking 
pig,  to  be  eaten  in  perfection,  should  not  be  more 
than  three  weeks  old,  and  should  be  dressed  the 
same  day  it  is  kiUed. 

Veal — Veal  should  be  perfectly  white;  if 
purchasing  the  loin,  the  fat  enveloping  the 
kidney  should  be  white  and  firm.  Veal  will  not 
keep  so  long  as  older  meat,  especially  in  hot  or 
wet  weather.  Choose  small  and  fat  veal.  It  is 
in  season  from  March  to  August. 

Beef-Steak  Pudding— 3^  lb.  of  flour,  6  oz.  of 
beef  suet,  2}4,  lbs.  of  rump  or  beefsteak,  pepper 
and  salt,  1  doz.  oysters,  }^  pint  of  stock. 

Chop  the  suet  finely,  and  rub  it  into  the  flour 
with  your  hands,  sprinkling  a  little  salt,  then 
mix  with  water  to  a  smooth  paste;  roll  the  paste 
to  an  eighth  of  an  inch;  line  a  quart  pudding 
basin  with  the  paste;  cut  the  steak  into  thin 
slices,  flour  them,  and  season  with  pepper  and 
salt;  put  the  oysters  and  the  liquor  that  is  with 
them  into  a  saucepan  and  bring  it  to  the  point 
of  boiling;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  and  strain 
the  liquor  into  a  basin;  then  cut  off  the  beards 
and  the  hard  parts,  leaving  only  the  soft,  roll  the 
slices  of  steak,  filling  the  basin  with  the  meat 


60  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

and  oysters;  pour  in  the  stock  and  liquor  from 
the  oysters.  Cover  with  paste  and  boil  three 
hours. 

N.  B. — Be  sure  the  water  is  boiling  before  put- 
ting the  pudding  in. 

Fillets  of  Beef  (with  Olives)— A  piece  of 
ramp  steak,  pepper,  salt,  olives,  onions,  flour, 
stock,  sauce. 

Out  a  piece  of  rump  steak  into  slices  %  of  an 
inch  thick,  and  trim  them  into  shape.  Melt 
plenty  of  butter  in  a  baking-tin,  lay  the  fillets 
of  beef  in  this,  and  let  them  stand  in  a  warm 
place  for  an  hour  or  so;  then  sprinkle  them  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  them  in  some  very  hot 
butter,  turning  them  to  let  both  sides  color. 
Stone  a  quantity  of  olives  and  parboil  them. 
Fry  some  onions  a  brown  color  in  butter,  add  a 
little  flour,  and,  when  that  is  colored,  as  much 
stock  as  you  want  sauce,  pepper,  salt  and  spices 
to  taste.  Let  the  sauce  boil,  then  strain  it,  add 
the  olives,  and  serve  when  quite  hot,  with  the 
fillets  in  a  circle  round  them. 

Orenadins  of  Beef— Rump  steak,  lard,  bacon 
fat,  rich  stock  of  gravy,  onions,  turnips,  butter, 
flour,  milk,  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg. 

Cut  some  rump  steak  in  slices  a  little  more 
than  half  an  inch  thick,  trim  them  all  to  the 
same  size  in  the  shape  of  cutlets,  and  lard  them 
thickly  on  one  side  with  fine  lardoons  of  bacon 
fat.  Lay  them  out,  the  larded  side  uppermost, 
into  a  flat  pan,  and  put  into  it  as  much  highly- 
flavored  rich  stock  or  gravy  as  will  come  up  to 
the  grenadins  without  covering  them.  Cover 
the  pan  and  place  it  in  the  oven  to  braise  gently 
for  an  hour.  Then  remove  the  cover,  baste  the 
grenadins  with  the  gravy,  and  let  them  remain 
uncovered  in  the  oven  till  the  larding  has  taken 
color;  they  are  then  ready.     Take  equal  quanti- 


Meats.  61 

ties  of  carrots  and  turnips  cut  into  the  shape  of 
olives.  Boil  all  these  vegetables  in  salted  water, 
then  melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  in  sufficient  milk  to 
make  a  sauce,  add  pepper,  salt  and  a  little 
grated  nutmeg.  Put  all  the  vegetables  into  this 
sauce,  of  which  there  should  be  just  enough  to 
hold  them  together;  toss  them  gently  in  it  till 
quite  hot.  Dress  them  in  the  middle  of  a  dish, 
round  them  dispose  the  grenadins  in  a  circle, 
and,  having  removed  the  superfluous  fat  from 
their  gravy,  put  this  round  the  grenadins,  and 
serve. 

Beefsteak  Pie — Forcemeat,  2  oz.  of  fat  bacon, 
2  oz.  of  bread  crumbs,  parsley,  thyme,  a  small 
onion,  mushrooms,  seasoning  for  forcemeat, 
salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  2  eggs,  a  tender  rump- 
steak,  shallot,  gravy. 

Make  some  forcemeat  with  2  oz.  of  fat  bacon, 
2  oz.  of  bread  crumbs,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
thyme,  a  small  onion  and  some  mushrooms;  add 
seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  pound  in 
mortar,  moistening  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Take  a  tender  rump  steak  or  the  under  cut  of  a 
sirloin  of  beef,  cut  it  in  thin  slices,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  shallot.  Roll  each  slice 
like  a  sausage  with  some  forcemeat  inside,  border 
a  pie  dish,  put  in  the  beef  and  forcemeat,  fill  it 
up  with  good  gravy,  flavored  with  Harvey  sauce. 
Cover  with  puff  paste;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Make  a  hole  in  the  top,  and  add  some  reduced 
gravy. 

Fillets  of  Beef  (a  la   Chateaubriand) — A 

piece  of  sirloin  of  beef,  pepper,  salt,  oil. 

A  piece  of  the  under  cut  of  the  sirloin  of  beef; 
trim  off  the  fat  neatly,  and  the  skin  next  to  it; 
cut  it  across  the  grain  into  slices  114,  ^^-  thick, 
sprinkle  them  with  pepper,  dip  them  in  oil,  and 


€2  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

broil  over  a  clear  fire,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
fierve  very  hot  in  a  dish  garnished  with  potatoes 
sautees  au  beurre.  For  potatoes  sautees  au  beurre 
see  receipt  under  "Vegetables." 

Corn  Beef  —  Four  gal.  of  fresh  water,  }4  lb. 
of  coarse  brown  sugar,  2  oz.  of  saltpetre,  7  lbs. 
of  common  salt. 

Put  4  gal.  of  fresh  water,  i^  lb.  of  coarse  brown 
sugar,  2  oz.  saltpetre,  7  lbs.  of  common  salt  into 
a  boiler,  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and,  when 
well  boiled,  leave  it  to  get  cold.  Put  in  the  meat 
in  the  pickle,  lay  a  cloth  over  it,  and  press  the 
meat  down  with  bricks  or  any  weight. 

Beef  Cake  (Cold  Meat  Cookery)— To  each 
lb.  of  cold  roast  meat  allow  34  It)-  of  bacon  or 
ham,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  1  bunch  of  minced 
savory  herbs,  2  eggs. 

Have  your  meat  underdone  and  mince  very 
:finQly,  add  the  bacon,  which  must  also  be  well 
minced;  mix  together,  stir  in  the  herbs  and  bind 
with  2  eggs;  make  into  square  cakes  about  ^  inch 
thick,  fry  in  hot  dripping,  drain  on  blotting  pa- 
per, and  serve  with  gravy  poured  round. 

Beef  Croquettes  —  One  cupful  cold  beef, 
chopped  fine,  1  cupful  mashed  potatoes,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  finely  minced  parsley  and  1  onion;  sea- 
son to  taste;  then  add  1  well-beaten  egg  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Mould  into  balls,  dip  first  in  bread 
crumbs,  then  into  beaten  egg;  fry  in  plenty  of  hot 
lard  until  a  delicate  brown.     Eat  very  hot. 

Bubble  and  Squeak  (Cold  Meat  Cookery)— 

A  few  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  beef,  a  little  but- 
ter, small  cabbage,  1  sliced  onion,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste. 

Fry  the  beef  gently  in  the  butter,  place  on 
a  flat  dish,  and  cover  with  fried  greens.  Sa- 
voys may  be  used.    Boil  until  tender,  press  in 


Meats,  6S 

colander,  mince  and  then  put  in  frying-pan  with 
butter  and  sliced  onion,  and  a  little  salt  and 
pepper. 

Roast  Bullock's  Heart— One  bullock's  heart, 
3^  lb.  suet,  6  oz.  bread  crumbs,  3?^  pt.  of  milk,  1 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  1  dessert- 
spoonful of  chopped  mixed  herbs,  }^  lb.  of 
dripping  or  butter,  1  pt.  of  gravy  or  beef-tea. 
For  the  sauce:  One  small  onion,  a  dessertspoon- 
ful of  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  butter  the  size  of  an 
Qgg,  a  large  spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup. 

Wash  the  heart  in  salt  water,  taking  care  to  re- 
move all  the  blood;  wash  in  second  water  and 
dry  with  a  clean  cloth;  be  careful  to  dry  it  thor- 
oughly; chop  the  suet  as  finely  as  possible,  mix 
with  some  bread  crumbs  the  suet,  parsley,  herbs, 
salt  and  pepper;  lastly,  put  in  the  milk,  then 
proceed  to  fill  all  the  cavities  of  the  heart  with 
the  stuffing;  take  a  piece  of  paper,  grease  it 
well  with  butter  or  dripping,  place  this  over  the 
cavities  and  tie  it  on  tightly  with  string;  put  1 
oz.  of  dripping  into  the  pan,  and  baste  the  heart 
occasionally;  when  gravy  boils,  cut  up  the  onion, 
sprinkling  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  add  to  the 
gravy;  allow  it  to  stew  gently  until  about  5  min- 
utes before  the  heart  is  done;  skim  occasionally; 
when  done  strain  the  liquor;  into  another  sauce- 
pan put  the  butter,  and  allow  it  to  melt  a  minute 
or  two;  then  add  the  flour  and  mix  smoothly  to- 
gether; then  pour  in  slowly  the  liquor,  stirring 
until  it  boils  and  thickens.  Then  dish  up,  re- 
move paper,  and  add  to  the  sauce  the  mushroom 
catsup.  Immediately  pour  this  sauce  round  the 
heart  and  serve. 

Stuffed  Steak  —  Take  a  good-sized  steak  — 
either  round  or  flank  will  do — slash  until  tender. 
Have  ready  a  dressing  made  of  bread  crumbs 
well  seasoned,  with  bits  of  butter  and  onion  or 


64  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

parsley  chopped  through  it.  Spread  the  steak 
with  this,  roll  and  tie  firmly.  Brown  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  in  your  pan,  work  in  a  little 
butter  and  thin  with  cold  water.  Put  the  steak 
in  the  pan,  and  baste  frequently  as  it  bakes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Beef  Omelet  —  Three  lbs.  of  beefsteak,  ^ 
lb.  of  suet,  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  sage,  eggs, 
6  Boston  crackers. 

Three  lbs.  of  beefsteak,  ^  lb.  of  suet,  chopped 
fine;  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  sage,  3  eggs,  6 
Boston  crackers  rolled;  make  into  a  roll  and 
baste. 

Beef  (Stewed) — One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

2  sliced  onions,  12  whole  cloves,  allspice,  3^  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  ^  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  1 
pt.  of  cold  water,  2  or  3  lbs.  of  tender  beef,  a 
little  flour,  a  few  sprigs  of  sweet  basil. 

In  a  stewpan  place  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  in  which  fry  until  quite  brown  two  sliced 
onions,  adding,  while  cooking,  12  whole  cloves; 
ditto  allspice;  3^  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half 
that  quantity  of  black  pepper;  take  from  the  fire, 
pour  1  pt.  of  cold  water,  wherein  lay  2  or  3  lbs.  of 
tender  lean  beef  cut  in  small,  thick  pieces;  cover 
closely,  and  let  all  stew  gently  2  hours,  adding, 
just  before  serving,  a  little  flour  thickening.  A 
few  sprigs  of  sweet  basil  is  an  improvement. 

Irish  SteTT — Cut  three  pounds  of  the  neck 
of  beef  into  small  pieces,  put  in  a  saucepan  and 
cover  with  half  a  gallon  of  boiling  water, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  sliced  onions  and  3 
or    4    pepper-corns,    and     simmer    gently    for 

3  hours.  Pare  and  quarter  half  a  dozen  pota- 
toes, add  to  the  meat,  and  cook  half  an  hour 
longer;  thicken  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 


Meats,  65 

Hamburg  Steak  —  This  is  a  nice  way  to  cook 
Hamburg  steak:  Chop  fine  1  pound  of  round 
steak,  add  2  small  onions,  chopped  fine,  and 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Flour  your  hands,  take 
two  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  and  make  into 
small,  flat  cakes-  Have  a  large  lump  of  butter 
very  hot  in  your  frying-pan,  drop  in  the  cakes 
and  fry  brown  on  either  side.  Some  people 
make  a  gravy  by  adding  a  couple  teaspoonfuls  of 
flour  to  the  butter  in  the  pan,  stirring  in  half  a 
pint  of  cold  water,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
letting  it  boil  up. 

Hash  —  Put  1}/^  teacups  of  boiling  water  into 
a  saucepan,  and  make  a  thin  paste  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
water.  Stir  and  boil  it  for  3  minutes.  Add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  rather  more 
of  salt,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Chop  cold 
beef  into  fine  hash,  removing  all  tough,  gristly 
pieces;  put  the  meat  into  a  tin  pan;  pour  over 
it  the  gravy  above  mentioned,  and  let  it  heat  ten 
minutes  or  so,  but  not  cook.  If  preferred,  add 
equal  quantity  of  chopped  boiled  potatoes,  and 
if  you  have  the  gravy  of  yesterday's  dinner,  you 
may  use  it  instead  of  the  made  gravy,  and  you 
will  need  less  pepper  and  salt  and  butter. 

Beef  Tongue — If  it  has  been  dried  and 
smoked  before  it  is  dressed  it  should  be  soaked 
over  night,  but  if  only  pickled,  a  few  hours  will 
be  sufficient.  Put  it  in  a  pot  of  cold  water  over 
a  slow  fire  for  an  hour  or  two  before  it  comes  to 
a  boil;  then  let  it  simmer  gently  for  from  three 
to  four  hours,  according  to  its  size;  ascertain 
when  it  is  done  by  probing  it  with  a  skewer. 
Take  the  skin  off,  and  before  serving  surround 
the  root  with  a  paper  frilL 

Jellied  Tongue  —  Boil  until  done  one  large 
beef's    tongue,   saving    a    pint    of    the  liquor; 


66  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

remove  the  skin,  allow  it  to  get  perfectly  cold 
and  slice  as  for  the  table.  In  half  a  pint  of  water 
dissolve  thoroughly  two  ounces  of  gelatine;  care- 
fully take  from  a  teacupful  of  browned  veal 
gravy  all  the  grease,  stir  in  a  small  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  burned  sugar 
to  color  the  jelly,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  then  the  liquor  in  which  the  tongue  was 
boiled;  mix  in  well  the  dissolved  gelatine,  then  a 
pint  of  boiling  water;  strain  through  a  jelly  bag. 
As  soon  as  it  begins  to  set,  pour  a  little  jelly  into 
the  bottom  of  the  mould,  add  a  layer  of  tongue, 
then  more  jelly,  until  it  is  full;  set  in  a  cold 
place.  When  wanted,  dip  the  mould  an  instant 
into  hot  water,  and  turn  the  contents  into  a  dish, 
which  should  be  garnished  with  lettuce  leaves, 
nasturtium  flowers  or  sprigs  of  celery. 

PORK 

Pork  Pie— 3^  lb.  of  lard,  1  lb.  of  pork  (leg 
or  loin),  seasoning,  1  lb.  of  flour  and  an  egg,  % 
glass  of  cold  water. 

Put  the  lard  and  water  into  rather  a  large  sauce- 
pan; place  upon  the  fire  and  allow  to  boil  (take 
care  it  does  not  boil  over,  or  it  will  catch  fire). 
Cut  the  pork  into  pieces  about  an  inch  square; 
when  the  lard  and  water  are  quite  boiling  pour 
into  the  middle  of  the  flour  and  mix  with  a 
spoon.  When  the  paste  is  cool  enough  knead  it 
well,  it  must  be  rather  stiff;  cut  off  a  quarter  of 
the  paste,  and  the  remainder  mould  into  the 
shape  of  a  basin,  pressing  it  inside;  shape  it 
evenly  all  round,  it  should  be  about  %  inch  in 
thickness;  dip  the  pieces  of  pork  in  cold  water, 
seasoning  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  place 
in  the  mould  of  paste  as  closely  as  possible.  If 
liked,  a  little  chopped  sage  can  be  sprinkled  over 
the  pork;  then  take  the  rest  of  the  paste,  roll  it. 


Meats.  67 

and  cut  to  the  size  of  the  top  of  the  mould,  tak- 
ing care  to  have  it  the  same  size  as  the  inside; 
break  an  egg  and  divide  the  yolk  from  the 
white;  with  a  paste-brush  dip  into  the  white  of 
egg  and  brush  the  edge  of  the  paste;  then  place 
this  on  the  top  of  the  pie,  pressing  the  edges 
well.  Any  trimmings  of  paste  that  are  left  cut 
into  little  leaves,  dip  into  the  white  of  egg,  and 
stick  them  on  top  of  the  pie;  then  wet  the  pie 
all  over  with  the  yolk  of  the  egg  and  bake  for 
about  2  hours. 

Pork  (Hashed) — Some  remnants  of  cold  roast 
pork,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  2  onions,  2  blades 
of  mace,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of 
vinegar,  2  cloves,  3^  pint  of  gravy. 

Take  the  onions,  chop  and  fry  them  a  nice 
brown;  then  take  the  pork  and  cut  it  into  thin 
slices,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  add  these  to  the  rest  of  the  above  ingre- 
dients; stew  it  for  about  half  an  hour  gently,  and 
serve  with  sippets  of  toasted  bread. 

Sucking  Pig  (Roast)— Pig,  3  oz.  of  bread- 
crumbs, 18  sage  leaves,  pepper  and  salt,  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  salad  oil  to  baste  with,  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  }4  pi^*  of  gravy. 

Stuff  the  pig  with  finely  grated  bread-crumbs, 
minced  sage,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter.  Take  care  these  are  well  blended. 
After  stuffing  the  pig  sew  up  the  slit  neatly,  truss 
the  legs  back,  to  allow  the  inside  to  be  roasted, 
put  in  oven,  and  directly  it  is  dry  have  ready 
some  butter  tied  in  a  piece  of  thin  cloth,  and 
rub  the  pig  with  this  in  every  part.  Continue 
this  operation  several  times  while  roasting;  do 
not  allow  the  pig  to  burn  in  any  part.  Then 
take  }4  pill*  of  gravy,  1  tables poonful  of  lemon 
juice,  and  the  gravy  that  flowed  from  the  pig; 
pour  a  little  of  this  over  the  pig,  and  the  re- 


68  WTiite  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

mainder  send  to  the  table  in  a  tureen.  Instead 
of  butter  for  basting  many  cooks  use  salad  oil, 
as  this  makes  the  crackling  crisp.  Before  dish- 
ing cut  off  the  head  and  part  the  body  down  the 
middle,  and  lay  on  the  dish  back  to  back.  Take 
care  that  it  is  sent  to  table  very  hot,  and  serve 
with  apple  sauce.  It  will  take  about  2  hours  for 
a  small  pig  to  roast. 

Pork  Cheese — About  2  lbs,  of  cold  roast  pork, 
a  dessertspoonful  of  chopped-up  parsley,  6  sage 
leaves,  pepper  and  salt,  a  bunch  of  savory  herbs, 
2  blades  of  mace,  a  little  nutmeg,  ^  teaspoonful 
of  minced  lemon  peel,  sufi&cient  gravy  to  fill  the 
mould. 

Cut  the  pork  into  pieces,  but  do  not  chop; 
there  should  be  about  3^^  of  fat  to  1  pound  lean; 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  pound  the  spices 
thoroughly  and  mince  as  finely  as  possible  the 
parsley,  sage,  lemon  peel  and  herbs;  then  mix 
all  this  nicely  together.  Place  in  mould  and  fill 
with  gravy.  Bake  a  little  over  an  hour.  When 
perfectly  cold  turn  out. 

To  Boil  a  Ham — Let  it  soak  in  cold  water 
for  24  hours  before  putting  it  on  the  fire,  cover 
it  with  cold  water  and  boil  slowly.  When  it  can 
be  easily  probed  with  a  skewer  lift  it  out  and 
take  off  the  skin,  boiling  it  again  for  1  hour. 
Leave  it  in  the  water  it  is  boiled  in  till  quite 
cold,  when  grate  burnt  bread  over  it  and  trim 
with  frills  of  cut  paper. 

VEAL 

Roast  Veal  (Stuffed)  —  Eight  oz.  of  bruised 
bread  crumbs,  4  oz.  of  chopped  suet,  shallot, 
thyme,  marjoram  and  winter  savory,  2  eggs, 
salt  and  pepper. 


Meats.  69 

To  8  oz.  of  bruised  crumbs  of  bread  add  4  oz. 
of  chopped  suet,  shallot,  thyme,  marjoram  and 
winter  savory,  all  chopped  fine;  2  eggs,  salt  and 
pepper  to  season;  mix  all  these  ingredients  into 
a  firm,  compact  kind  of  paste,  and  use  this  stuff- 
ing to  fill  a  hole  or  pocket  which  you  will  have 
cut  with  a  knife  in  some  part  of  the  piece  of 
veal,  taking  care  to  fasten  it  in  with  a  skewer. 
A  piece  of  veal  weighing  4  lbs.  would  require  ra- 
ther more  than  an  hour  to  cook  it  thoroughly  be- 
fore a  small  fire. 

Yeal  (Stewed)  —  Two  qts.  of  water,  1  peeled 
onion,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  a  little  salt,  }£  lb.  of 
rice,  butter,  chopped  parsley. 

Break  the  shank  bone,  wash  it  clean,  and  put 
it  into  2  qts.  of  water,  1  onion  peeled,  a  few 
blades  of  mace  and  a  little  salt;  set  over  a  quick 
fire,  and  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises;  wash 
carefully  3^  lb.  of  rice,  and  when  the  veal  has 
cooked  for  about  an  hour  skim  it  well  and 
throw  in  the  rice;  simmer  for  ^  of  an  hour 
slowly;  when  done  put  the  meat  in  a  deep  dish 
and  the  rice  around  it.  Mix  a  little  drawn  but- 
ter, stir  in  some  chopped  parsley,  and  pour  over 
the  veal. 

Veal  and  Ham  Pie — Forcemeat  balls,  1  or 
2  eggs,  ham  and  veal,  mushrooms,  gravy,  pie 
crust,  jelly,  onions,  herbs,  lemon  peel,  salt,  cay- 
enne, parsley,  whites  of  eggs. 

Cut  some  thin  slices  off  the  leg  or  neck  of  veal, 
free  them  from  skin  and  gristle,  lard  them  well, 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  some 
eggs  boiled  hard  and  thin  slices  of  ham.  Make 
some  forcemeat  balls  with  fat  bacon,  the  trim- 
mings of  the  veal,  chopped  onions,  parsley  and 
sweet  herbs,  grated  lemon  peel,  salt,  cayenne, 
and  pounded  mace.  Pound  all  in  a  mortar,  and 
bind  with  1  or  2  eggs.     Line  a  pie  with  good 


70  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

paste,  and  fill  it  with  layers  (not  too  close),  first 
one  of  ham,  then  one  of  veal,  of  forcemeat  balls, 
of  the  eggs  (cut  in  halves),  and  so  on;  a  few 
mushrooms  may  be  added;  put  in  some  gravy; 
lastly,  a  layer  of  thin  bacon,  and  cover  all  with 
tolerably  thick  crust,  glaze.  Bake  for  about  4 
hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Make  a  hole  in  the 
top,  and  insert  some  good  savory  jelly  —  made 
with  an  ox  or  calf's  foot,  knuckle  of  veal,  and 
trimming  of  bacon  and  ham  well  flavored  with 
onions,  more  herbs  and  lemon  peel,  and  cleared 
with  the  whites  of  egg.  Leave  till  quite  cold, 
then  it  can  be  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into  slices. 

Veal  Pudding"— Slice  boiled  veal  about  }^  an 
inch  in  thickness;  butter  a  pudding  dish  and 
have  ready  2  cupfuls  of  boiled  rice;  put  first  a 
layer  of  rice,  then  one  of  meat;  season  to  taste, 
and  add,  if  you  like,  a  little  chopped  sage.  Beat 
1  egg  into  1  cupful  of  milk;  add  a  little  salt  and 
pour  over  the  pudding;  bake  %  of  an  hour. 

Teal  Cake — One-half  lb.  veal  cutlets,  1  rasher 
of  ham,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  little  veal  stuffing, 
and  3^  oz.  of  gelatine. 

Cut  the  eggs  into  slices  and  arrange  them  at 
the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  pie-dish.  Cut  the 
veal  and  ham  into  rather  small  pieces;  arrange 
them  in  layers,  with  a  little  stuffing  and  egg  be- 
tween, and  a  small  quantity  of  water,  pepper 
and  salt.  Cover  with  a  plain  crust,  in  which 
make  two  holes.  Bake  very  slowly  for  2  hours. 
Before  it  is  done  have  ready  the  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  3^  teacupful  of  boiling  water,  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Pour  this  into  the  holes  in  the 
crust.  Shake  it  down  well,  to  mix  together. 
Turn  out  when  cold. 

Veal  (Marbled) — Spice,  butter,  tongue  and 
veal. 


Meats.  71 

Some  cold  roasted  veal,  season  with  spice,  beat 
in  a  mortar;  skin  a  cold  boiled  tongue,  cut  up 
and  pound  it  to  a  paste,  adding  to  it  nearly  its 
weight  of  butter;  put  some  of  the  veal  into  a  pot, 
and  strew  in  lumps  of  the  pounded  tongue;  put 
in  another  layer  of  the  veal  and  then  more 
tongue;  press  it  down  and  pour  clarified  butter 
on  top;  this  cuts  very  prettily  like  veined 
marble.  White  meat  of  fowls  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  veal. 

Veal  Scallop  —  Pepper  and  salt,  crackers, 
milk  and  gravy  from  meat,  2  eggs,  butter. 

Chop  some  cold  roast  or  stewed  veal  very  fine; 
put  a  layer  on  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  well 
buttered;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  next  have 
a  layer  of  finely-powdered  crackers;  wet  with  a 
little  milk  or  some  of  the  gravy  from  the  meat. 
Proceed  until  the  dish  is  full;  spread  over  all  a 
thick  layer  of  cracker-crumbs,  seasoned  with  salt 
and  wet  into  a  paste  with  milk  and  2  beaten 
eggs.  Stick  pieces  of  butter  all  over  it,  cover 
closely,  and  bake  half  an  hour;  then  remove  the 
cover  and  bake  long  enough  to  brown  nicely. 
Do  not  get  it  too  dry. 

Yeal  Cutlets— Four  lbs.  of  the  best  end  of  the 
neck  of  veal,  3^  teaspoonful  of  minced  thyme, 
rind  of  a  small  lemon,  1  bunch  of  parsley,  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  1  egg,  pepper  and  salt,  bread-crumbs,  3^ 
lb.  of  bacon. 

To  shape  the  cutlets,  saw  off  the  end  of  the  rib 
bone,  saw  off  the  chine  bone  also,  which  lies  at 
the  back  of  the  cutlets;  then  form  the  cutlets  to 
a  neat  shape.  Mince  thyme  and  lemon  rind  and 
parsley  as  finely  as  possible;  melt  the  butter, 
and  add  these  ingredients  to  it;  add  also  the  egg, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  beat  all  up  together;  then 
rub  very  finely  some  crumbs  of  bread;  dip  each 


72  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

cutlet  into  the  mixture,  then  cover  with  bread- 
crumbs; when  the  gridiron  is  perfectly  warm 
arrange  the  cutlets  upon  it.  Have  the  fire  nice 
and  bright,  but  do  not  allow  them  to  cook  too 
fast  or  the  bread-crumbs  will  burn  before  the 
cutlets  are  cooked  through;  allow  them  to  brown 
nicely  on  both  sides;  about  10  minutes  will  be 
the  time.  Serve  on  a  wall  of  mashed  potatoes  in 
a  circle;  fill  the  center  of  dish  with  rolls  of  bacon 
and  with  a  nice  brown  sauce.     (See  "Sauces.") 

For  Rolls — Cut  some  neat  slices  of  bacon,  roll 
them  up  and  run  a  skewer  through  each;  place 
this  in  the  oven  for  about  5  minutes,  then  re- 
move the  skewer  and  arrange  in  center  of  dish. 

Teal  Croquettes— Boil  1^4  lbs.  of  veal — or 
use  that  left  from  roast.  Mince  very  fine,  add 
two  eggs,  3^  cup  of  rolled  crackers,  salt  and 
pepper.  Make  into  small  balls  or  cakes,  roll  in 
flour  and  fry  in  butter,  or  put  in  wire  basket  and 
fry  in  lard.     Serve  on  napkin. 

Hashed  CalPs  Head  (a  la  Poulette)— Calf's 

head,  1  oz.  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
3^  pint  of  white  stock,  a  few  button  mushrooms, 
white  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  2  eggs,  juice  of  a 
lemon,  parsley. 

Cut  the  remnants  of  a  boiled  head  into  uni- 
form pieces  the  size  of  half  an  apple.  Melt  in 
a  saucepan  1  or  2  ounces  of  butter,  according  to 
the  quantity  of  meat  to  be  hashed;  amalgamate 
with  it  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  then  stir 
in  3^  pint,  more  or  less,  of  white  stock.  Stir 
well,  then  add  a  few  button  mushrooms,  white 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  let  the  sauce  boil 
for  10  minutes.  Put  the  saucepan  by  the  side 
of  the  fire,  and  lay  the  pieces  of  calf's  head  in  it; 
let  them  get  hot  slowly,  but  not  boil.  Just  be- 
fore serving  stir  in  off  the  fire  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  beaten  up  with  the   juice  of  a  lemon,  and 


Meats.  73 

strained;  also  a  small  quantity  of   either  tarra- 
gon or  parsely  very  finely  minced. 

Veal  (Braized  Loin  of) — Veal,  2  oz.  of  butter, 
1  carrot,  1  onion,  a  little  parsley,  sweet  herbs,  a 
leaf  or  two  of  basil,  a  bay  leaf,  a  crust  of  bread 
toasted  brown,  a  little  flour,  and  a  little  stock. 

About  2  oz.  of  butter,!  carrot,  1  onion,  a  little 
parsley,  sweet  herbs,  a  leaf  or  two  of  basil,  and  a 
bay  leaf;  brown  a  large  crust  of  bread  and  put 
it  in  a  stewpan  with  the  above  things,  and  fry 
them  until  they  are  brown;  then  flour  the  meat 
and  brown  it  well,  putting  it  back  in  the  sauce- 
pan; add  a  little  stock,  and  baste  it  in  the  gravy 
till  done,  and  keep  turning  the  meat.  Simmer 
4  pounds  for  3  or  4  hours. 

MUTTON 

Mutton  Cutlets  —  This  is  an  entree  always 
ready  to  hand,  but  it  must  be  carefully  and 
neatly  prepared.  A  dish  of  well-dressed  mutton 
cutlets  is  truly  "a  dish  to  put  before  a  king;'' 
whereas  greasy,  fat,  gristly  meats,  called  for  the 
nonce  cutlets,  offend  the  taste  of  the  least  fas- 
tidious. The  first  thing  to  attend  to  is  the  cut- 
ting and  trimming  of  the  cutlets  neatly.  Take 
a  piece  of  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton, 
saw  off  the  bones  short,  remove  gristle  and  fat, 
cut  the  cutlets  about  one-third  of  an  inch  in 
thickness,  shape  and  trim  them  neatly,  beat 
them  with  a  cutlet  bat  dipped  in  water,  and  then 
proceed  to  cook  them  by  any  of  the  following 
recipes: 

Pepper,  salt,  and  broil  them  over  a  brisk  fire; 
serve  them  with  mashed  or  sautee  potatoes  in 
the  center  of  the  dish. 

Season  as  above,  and  before  broiling  dip  them 
in  oil  or  oiled  butter.     Serve  with — 


74  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

SouMse  Sauce  —  Peal  and  blanch  4  onions, 
cool  in  water,  drain,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
enough  water  or  white  stock  to  cover;  add  some 
cayenne,  bay  leaf,  a  little  mace,  a  small  piece  of 
ham  or  bacon;  keep  the  lid  closely  shut  and  sim- 
mer gently  until  tender;  take  them  out.  drain 
them  thoroughly,  press  through  a  sieve  or 
tammy  cloth,  add  3^  pt.  of  bechamel  sauce  made 
thus:  Put  in  a  stewpan  a  little  parsley,  1  clove,  a 
small  piece  of  bay  leaf,  sweet  herbs,  and  1  pt.  of 
White  stock  freed  from  fat;  when  boiled  long 
enough  to  extract  the  flavor  of  the  herbs,  etc., 
strain  it,  boil  up  quickly  till  reduced  to  half  the 
quantity;  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot  with 
^  pt.  of  milk  or  cream,  pour  on  the  reduced 
stock  and  simmer  for  10  minutes. 

A  Dainty  Dish  —  For  a  dainty  dish  of  cold 
meat,  boil  a  leg  of  lamb  in  water  enough  to 
cover,  to  which  add  a  handful  of  cloves  and  whole 
allspice  and  a  stick  or  two  of  cinnamon.  Let  it 
stand  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  to  be- 
come cold.  Slice  very  thin.  Beef  can  be  cooked 
in  the  same  style. 

Mutton  Pudding  —  2  lbs.  of  the  chump  end 
of  the  loin,  weighed  after  being  boned;  suet  crust 
(proportions  —  6  oz.  of  suet  to  each  lb.  of  flour); 
1  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion,  pepper  and 
salt. 

Cut  the  meat  into  thin  slices,  sprinkling  with 
pepper  and  salt.  For  the  suet  crust  use  the 
above  proportions  of  flour  and  suet,  mixing  with 
a  little  salt  and  pepper,  milk  or  water,  to  the 
proper  consistency.  Line  your  dish  with  the 
crust,  lay  in  the  meat,  nearly  fill  the  dish  with 
water;  add  the  minced  onion  and  cover  with  the 
crust. 


Meats.  75 

Irish  Stew  (Mutton) — 2  lbs.  thick  mutton 
cutlets,  4  lbs.  potatoes,  1  onion,  pepper  and  salt, 
1^  pint  of  water. 

Prepare  the  potatoes  as  for  boiling,  cut  them 
in  halves.  Slice  the  onion  very  thinly.  Place  a 
layer  of  potatoes  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan, 
then  a  layer  of  cutlets,  and  a  sprinkling  of  onion, 
pepper  and  salt;  then  another  layer  of  potatoes 
and  so  on  until  all  is  used  up.  Pour  in  the  water, 
cover  the  pan  closely  and  simmer  gently  for  2 
hours. 

Mutton  (Boned  Le^  of,  Stuffed)  — A  leg 
weighing  7  or  8  pounds,  2  shallots,  forcemeat. 

Make  forcemeat,  to  which  add  the  minced 
shallots.  Get  the  butcher  to  take  the  bone  from 
the  mutton,  as  he  can  do  it  without  spoiling  the 
skin;  if  very  fat,  cut  off  some  of  it.  Fill  up  the 
hole  with  the  forcemeat,  then  sew  it  up  to  pre- 
vent it  falling  out,  tie  up  neatly  and  roast  about 
2}/£  hours  or  a  little  longer.  When  ready  to  serve, 
remove  the  string  and  serve  with  a  good  gravy. 

Lamb  (Stewed) — A  breast  of  lamb,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  1  qt.  of  canned  peas,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  wheat  flour,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, pepper  to  taste. 

Cut  the  scrag,  or  breast  of  lamb,  in  pieces,  and 
put  in  a  stewpan  with  water  enough  to  cover  it. 
Cover  the  stewpan  closely  and  let  it  simmer  or 
stew  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  take  off  the 
scum,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a 
quart  of  canned  peas;  cover  the  stewpan  and  let 
them  stew  for  half  an  hour;  work  a  small  table- 
spoonful  of  wheat  flour  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  and  stir  it  into  the  stew;  add  pepper 
to  taste;  let  it  simmer  together  for  ten  minutes. 

Lamb  Chops  —  A  little  butter,  a  little  water, 
enough  potatoes  to  fill  a  small  dish,  1  teacupful 
of  cream. 


76  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Lamb  chops  are  excellent  cooked  this  way: 
Put  them  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  very  little  water, 
so  little  that  it  will  boil  away  by  the  time  the 
meat  is  tender;  then  put  in  lumps  of  butter  with 
the  meat  and  let  it  brown  slowly;  there  will  be  a 
brown,  crisp  surface,  with  a  fine  flavor.  Serve 
for  breakfast  with  potatoes  cooked  thus:  Choose 
the  small  ones  and  let  them  boil  till  they  are 
tender;  drain  off  the  water,  and  pour  over  them, 
while  still  in  the  kettle,  at  least  one  teacupful  of 
cream;  mash  them  smoothly  in  this. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  (Boiled  with  Oysters) 

—  A  little  pepper,  a  piece  of  mace,  about  2  dozen 
oysters,  a  little  water,  an  onion,  a  few  pepper- 
corns, about  3^  pint  of  good  gravy,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  and  butter. 

Hang  it  some  days,  then  salt  it  well  for  two 
days;  bone  it,  and  sprinkle  it  with  pepper  and  a 
piece  of  mace  pounded;  lay  some  oysters  over  it, 
and  roll  the  meat  up  tight  and  tie  it.  Stew  it  in 
a  small  quantity  of  water,  with  an  onion  and  a 
few  peppercorns,  till  quite  tender.  Have  ready 
a  little  good  gravy,  and  some  oysters  stewed  in 
it:  thicken  this  with  flour  and  butter,  and  pour 
over  the  mutton,  when  the  tape  is  taken  off.  The 
stewpan  should  be  kept  covered. 

Sweetbreads  —  Half  boil  them,  and  stew  them 
in  a  white  gravy;  add  cream,  flour,  butter,  nut- 
meg, salt  and  white  pepper.  Or  do  them  in 
brown  sauce  seasoned.  Or  parboil  them,  and 
then  cover  them  with  crumbs,  herbs  and  season- 
ing, and  brown  them  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Serve 
with  butter  and  mushroom  catsup  or  gravy. 
N.  B. — If  there  is  no  oven  at  hand,  they  may  be 
toasted  before  the  fire  upon  a  toasting  fork. 

Fried  Sweetbreads  —  After  they  are  par- 
boiled and  cold,  split  in  halves  and  cut  into 
pieces  as  large  as  very  large  oysters,  wipe  dry 


Meats.  77 

and  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  fine  cracker 
crumbs;  fry  in  hot  lard  or  butter  same  as  oysters; 
sprinkle  with  salt  before  dipping  in  egg.  Serve 
hot;  garnish  with  parsley. 

Sweetbreads  (Larded)  —  A  couple  of  sweet- 
breads, a  few  strips  of  bacon,  onions,  carrots, 
sweet  herbs,  pepper,  salt,  spice  to  taste,  a  small 
quantity  of  rich  stock. 

Trim  a  couple  of  sweetbreads,  soak  them  half 
an  hour  in  tepid  water,  then  parboil  them  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water;  when 
quite  cold  take  them  out,  dry  them,  and  lard 
them  quickly  with  fine  strips  of  bacon.  Put  a 
slice  of  fat  bacon  in  a  stewpan  with  some  onions, 
carrots,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  salt,  and 
spices  to  taste,  and  a  small  quantity  of  rich 
stock;  lay  the  sweetbreads  on  this,  and  let  them 
gently  stew  till  quite  done,  basting  the  top  occa- 
sionally with  the  liquor.  When  cooked,  strain 
the  liquor,  skim  off  superfluous  fat,  reduce  it 
almost  to  a  glaze,  brown  the  larded  side  of  the 
sweetbreads  with  a  salamander,  and  serve  with 
sauce  over  them. 

Kidneys  (a  la  Brocliette)  —  Plunge  some 
mutton  kidneys  in  boiling  water;  open  them 
down  the  center,  but  do  not  separate  them;  peel 
and  pass  a  skewer  across  them  to  keep  them 
open,  pepper,  salt,  and  dip  them  into  melted 
butter,  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire  on  both  sides, 
doing  the  cut  side  first;  remove  the  skewers,  have 
ready  some  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  viz.:  butter 
beaten  up  with  chopped  parsley,  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Put  a  small  piece  in 
the  hollow  of  each  kidney,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Stewed  Kidneys  —  4  kidneys,  %  a  small 
onion,  1  oz.  butter,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste. 


78  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Cut  the  kidneys  in  small  pieces,  and  roll  them 
in  flour;  chop  the  onion  small,  and  fry  with  the 
pieces  of  kidney  in  the  butter  until  brown.  Then 
add  the  pepper,  salt,  and  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  them,  and  stew  very  gently  for  an  hour. 
Thicken  with  the  flour  a  few  minutes  before 
done,  and  serve  very  hot. 


CURRIgS. 


MOST  people  have  a  liking  for  a  really  good 
curry ;  but  how  very  rarely  it  is  to  be 
obtained  in  America,  unless  at  the  house 
of  some  one  who  has  passed  a  good  many  years 
in  India.  The  dish  miscalled  a  curry  is  fre- 
quently set  before  people,  but  too  often  as 
far  as  possible  removed  from  the  real  and 
apj)etizing  plat  which  a  good  Indian  cook  will 
send  to  table.  The  meat  is  tough,  has  most 
hkely  been  boiled  instead  of  gently  simmered, 
the  sauce,  or  thick  gravy,  is  hot  enough  in  all 
conscience,  but  it  tastes  only  of  curry  powder 
of  an  inferior  kind;  the  rice  is  a  slo23py  mess, 
and  the  result  is  a  fiery,  leathery  sort  of 
indigestible  hash,  instead  of  a  sweet,  acid, 
highly  but  agreeably  flavored,  perfectly  cooked 
and  digestible  dish,  fit  to  set  before  a  j)rince. 
Any  cook,  of  whatever  nationality,  who  has 
really  mastered  the  art  of  stewing  properly, 
that  is,  very  gently  and  slowly,  can  cook  a  curry ; 
the  real  difficulties  lie  in  procuring  good  curry 
powder  or  curry  paste. 

Curry  Powder  —  1  lb.  pale  turmeric  seed,  ^ 
lb.  cumin  seed,  }^  lb.  black  pepper,  3^  lb. 
coriander  seed,  2  oz.  cayenne  pepper,  3^  lb. 
Jamaica  ginger,  10  oz.  caraway  seed,  ^4  ^'^• 
cardamines. 

Purchase  the  ingredients  of  a  first-class  drug- 
gist. Additional  heat  can  be  obtained,  by  those 
who  like  very  hot  curries,  if  red  Chile  powder  be 
added  according  to  taste.  Mix  together  all  the 
ingredients  well  powdered,  and  place  before  the 
fire  or  in  the  sun,  stirring  occasionally.  Keep  in 
well  corked  bottles. 

79 


80  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

Indian  Curry — 2  large  tablespoon! uls  of  curry 
powder,  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt,  the  same  of 
black  pepper,  4  onions,  ^^  lb.  butter,  1}/^  lbs. 
meat,  ^  pint  of  milk,  lemon  juice  or  Chile 
vinegar. 

Two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  a 
dessertspoonful  of  salt,  the  same  of  black  pepper. 
Fry  and  chop  very  tine  four  onions,  then  moisten 
the  curry  powder  with  water,  and  put  it  in  a 
stewpan,  with  all  the  above  ingredients,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  Let  it  stew  for 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent 
burning,  then  add  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  cold 
or  fresh  meat,  or  any  fowl  or  rabbit,  cut  into 
short,  thick  pieces,  without  fat,  add  half  a  pint  of 
milk  or  good  stock  to  make  the  curry  thick. 
Boil  all  up  at  once,  and  let  it  stew  gently  for 
three  or  four  hours.  When  ready  add  lemon 
juice  or  Chile  vinegar. 

Curried  Rabbit  —  l  rabbit,  }^  lb.  butter,  1 
apple,  2  onions,  2  tablespoonfuls  curry  powder, 
3^  pint  of  cream,  1  pint  stock,  1  lemon,  a^  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt. 

Melt  the  butter  over  the  fire,  peel  and  chop  the 
onions  as  finely  as  possible,  then  put  them  into 
the  melted  butter  to  fry  a  light  brown.  After 
the  rabbit  has  been  properly  prepared  for  cook- 
ing, wash  well  and  dry  in  a  cloth,  cut  in  pieces  of 
equal  size.  After  straining  the  butter  from  the 
onions,  return  the  former  to  the  stewpan,  put  in 
pieces  of  rabbit,  and  allow  to  fry  for  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes,  turning  occasionally.  Peel  and 
core  the  apple,  and  chop  as  finely  as  possible. 
When  the  meat  is  done  add  to  it  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  curry  powder  and  the  salt,  stirring  for  five 
minutes,  then  add  the  fried  onion,  chopped 
apple  and  a  pint  of  good  stock.  Allow  to  simmer 
for  two  hours,  at  the  end  of  the  time  add  the 


Curries.  81 

cream,  sqneeze  the  juice  from  the  lemon  into  the 
stewpan.     It  is  then  ready  to  serve. 

N.B. —  Veal  or  chicken  can  be  used,  if  pre- 
ferred. 

Curry  of  Mutton  —  Mutton,  1  onion,  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  curry  powder,  a  little  salt,  a 
cup  of  cream. 

Slice  a  medium-sized  onion,  and  put  it  with  a 
large  lump  of  butter  in  a  saucepan;  let  it  cook 
slowly  for  five  minutes.  Cut  the  mutton  in  neat 
pieces;  sprinkle  curry  powder  over  them,  also  a 
little  salt,  and  just  before  putting  in  the  sauce- 
pan pour  a  part  of  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  over 
them.  Let  this  all  simmer  gently  for  half  an 
hour,  so  that  the  ingredients  will  become  thor- 
oughly mixed. 

A  Dry  Malay  Curry  —  A  cauliflower,  2  onions, 
a  sour  apple,  a  pint  of  shrimps,  slices  of  cold 
mutton,  2  oz.  butter,  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
curry  powder,  a  lemon,  a  small  teaspoonful  of 
salt. 

Pick  a  cauliflower  into  small  pieces  and  well 
wash  them;  chop  two  onions  and  one  sour  apple, 
pick  a  pint  of  fresh  boiled  shrimps,  cut  some 
slices  of  cold  mutton  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
knead  two  ounces  of  butter  with  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  curry  powder,  and  a  small  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt.  Put  the  butter,  onions  and  appl(> 
into  a  stewpan,  and  fry  till  brown,  then  add  the 
cauliflower  and  shrimps.  Shake  the  saucepan 
frequently,  and  let  it  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a 
half,  adding  the  slices  of  mutton  towards  the  end 
of  the  time,  that  they  may  be  heated  through* 
Finally,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Place  the 
slices  of  mutton  round  the  dish  with  the  cauli- 
flower, etc.,  in  the  middle.  Serve  very  hot,  with, 
a  separate  dish  of  boiled  rice. 


82  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Curried  Lobster — Lobster,  cream,  rice. 

Take  the  flesh  of  a  lobster  (or  a  tin  of  lobster 
does  very  well  for  this  dish),  make  curry  gravy 
with  plenty  of  cream;  pour  into  a  saucepan  with 
the  lobster,  warm  it  just  to  boiling  point;  serve 
with  rice  round. 

Boiled  Kice  for  Curry  —  Put  the  rice  on  the 
stove  in  cold  water,  and  allow  it  to  come  to  a 
boil  for  a  minute  or  two.  Strain,  dry  and  put  in 
stewpan  without  lid  at  the  back  of  the  stove,  to 
allow  the  steam  to  evaporate;  shake  into  dish 
very  hot;  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  put  in 
directly  after  it  boils  will  make  the  grains  separ- 
ate better. 

Curried  Egg's  —  6  eggs,  2  onions,  butter,  a 
tablespoonful  of  curry  powder,  1  pint  of  broth, 
a  cup  of  cream,  arrowroot. 

Slice  the  onions  and  fry  in  butter  a  light 
brown,  add  curry  powder,  and  mix  with  the 
broth,  allowing  to  simmer  till  tender;  then  put 
in  cream,  and  thicken  with  arrowroot;  simmer 
for  five  minutes,  then  add  6  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut 
in  slices. 

Curried  Beef —  Beef,  2  oz.  butter,  2  onions, 
a  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder,  y^  pint  milk, 
lemon  juice. 

Slice  the  onions  and  fry  in  butter  a  light 
brown,  mix  well  with  the  curry  powder,  adding 
the  beef,  cut  into  small  pieces  about  an  inch 
square,  pour  in  milk  and  allow  to  simmer  for 
thirty  minutes,  stirring  frequently;  when  done 
add  lemon  juice.  It  greatly  improves  the  dish 
to  build  a  wall  of  mashed  potatoes  or  boiled  rice 
around  it. 

Potato  Curry  (1). — Cold  potatoes,  onion,  salt 
and  pepper,  curry  powder  to  taste,  ^g^,  bread 
crumbs,  and  gravy. 


Cum^ies.  83 

Mash  cold  potatoes  with  minced  onion,  salt, 
pepper,  and  curry  powder  to  taste;  form  into 
small  balls  with  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  fry  crisp, 
serve  with  rich  gravy  flavored  with  curry  powder. 

Potato  Curry  (2). — Potatoes,  onions,  butter, 
curry  powder,  a  little  stock,  cream,  lemon  juice. 

Fry  some  sliced  raw  potatoes  and  onions 
slightly  in  butter  with  a  little  curry  powder, 
then  simmer  until  done  in  a  very  little  stock; 
add  some  cream,  butter  and  lemon  juice  before 
serving. 

Potato  Curry  (3). — Curry  powder,  mashed 
potatoes,  milk. 

Put  a  good  pinch  of  curry  powder  in  mashed 
potatoes,  allowing  rather  more  butter  and  milk 
than  usual.  This  last  is  a  delicious  accompani- 
ment to  cutlets. 

Curry  (Dry) — ^A  few  onions,  }4:  lb.  butter,  1% 
lbs.  steak,  a  little  flour  and  curry  powder,  salt  to 
taste,  juice  of  1  lemon. 

Slice  up  a  good-sized  onion,  and  fry  it  a  golden 
color  in  ^  lb.  of  butter;  cut  up  1}^  lbs.  of  fresh 
steak  into  pieces  the  size  of  dice.  Dredge  them 
well  with  flour  and  curry  powder,  add  a  little  salt, 
and  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  over  them, 
then  fry  them  lightly  in  the  butter  in  which  the 
onions  have  been  previously  cooked.  Add  all  to- 
gether, and  stew  gently  in  a  saucepan  for  3^ 
hour. 


GRAVIES. 


GEAVY  may  be  made  quite  as  good  of  the 
skirts  of  beef,  and  the  kidney,  as  of  any 
other  meat,  prepared  in  the  same  way. 
An  ox- kidney,  or  milt,  makes  good  gravy,  cut 
all  to  pieces,  and  prepared  as  other  meat;  and 
so  will  the  shank  end  of  mutton  that  has  been 
dressed,  if  much  be  not  wanted. 

The  shank-bones  of  mutton  are  a  great  im- 
provement to  the  richness  of  gravy;  but  first 
soak  them  well,  and  scour  them  clean. 

A  Crood  Beef  Gravy  (for  Poultry  or  Grame) 

— 3^  lb.  lean  beef,  3^  pint  cold  water,  1  small 
onion,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  a 
tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup  or  sauce,  3^ 
teaspoonful  of  arrowroot. 

Cut  the  beef  into  small  pieces  and  put  it  and 
the  water  into  a  stewpan.  Add,  the  onion  and 
seasoning,  and  simmer  gently  for  three  hours. 
A  short  time  before  it  is  required,  mix  the  arrow- 
root with  a  little  cold  water,  pour  into  the  gravy 
while  stirring,  add  the  mushroom  catsup  and 
allow  it  just  to  come  to  a  boil.  Strain  into  a 
tureen  and  serve  very  hot. 

Savory  Oravy  (Thick) — 1  onion,  butter,  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  3^  pint  of  broth  or  stock, 
pepper  and  salt,  a  small  quantity  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce. 

Mince  one  onion  fine,  fry  it  in  butter  to  a  dark 
brown,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  After 
one  minute  add  3^  pint  of  broth  or  stock,  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  a  very  small  quantity  of  Wor- 
cester sauce. 

(xravy  for  Oeneral  Use  —  1  lb.  of  lean  beef 
cut  in  email  pieces  and  floured,  put  into  a  sauce- 

81 


Gravies.  85 

pan  with  12  cloves,  24  peppercorns,  6  blades  of 
mace,  some  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  and  Ij^  pints 
of  water. 

Simmer  gently  for  2  hours,  stirring  frequently. 
Strain  before  using.  Add  a  little  of  the  brown- 
ing for  soups  and  gravies. 

Plain  (xravy  —  An  onion,  a  little  butter,  ^ 
pint  of  stock,  pepper  and  salt,  a  small  piece  of 
lean  ham  or  bacon,  a  dessertspoonful  of  Wor- 
cester sauce,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  thyme. 

Mince  an  onion  finely,  fry  it  in  butter  to  a 
dark  brown  color,  then  add  ^  of  a  pint  of  stock, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a  small  piece  of  lean 
ham  or  bacon  minced  small,  a  little  Worcester 
sauce,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  one  of  parsley.  Let 
it  boil  five  or  ten  minutes,  put  it  by  till  wanted, 
and  strain  it  before  serving. 

Gravy  for  Hashes  —  Remnants  and  bones  of 
the  joint  intended  for  hashing,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  pepper,  3^  teaspoonful  of  whole  allspice,  a 
bunch  of  savory  herbs,  a  saltspoonful  of  celery 
salt  or  3^  a  head  of  celery,  an  onion,  a  small  piece 
of  butter,  a  little  corn  flour,  and  boiling  water. 

Put  the  bones  (having  previously  chopped 
them),  with  the  remnants  of  the  meat,  salt,  pep- 
per, spice,  herbs  and  celery  into  a  stewpan. 
Cover  with  boiling  water  and  allow  it  to  simmer 
for  two  hours.  Cut  up  the  onion  in  neat  slices 
and  fry  in  butter  to  a  pale  brown.  Then  mix 
slowly  with  the  gravy  from  bones.  Boil  fifteen 
minutes,  strain,  then  return  to  stewpan,  flavor 
with  catsup  or  any  flavoring  that  may  be  pre- 
ferred. Thicken  with  butter  and  flour  and  just 
allow  it  to  come  to  the  boil.     Serve  very  hot. 

Gravy  for  a  Fowl  (when  there  is  no  meat 
to  make  it  from)— The  feet,  liver,  gizzards  and 
neck  of  the  fowl,  a  little  browned  bread,  a  slice 
of  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  thyme,  some 


86  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

pepper   and  salt,   1  teaspoonful  of  mushroom 
catsnp,  a  little  flour  and  butter. 

Wash  the  feet  nicely,  and  cut  them  and  the 
neck  small;  simmer  them  with  a  little  bread 
browned,  a  slice  of  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and 
thyme,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  liver  and 
gizzards,  in  }^  pint  water,  till  half  wasted.  Take 
out  the  liver,  bruise  it,  and  strain  the  liquor  to 
it.  Then  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  and 
add  1  teaspoonful  of  mushroom  catsup. 

Yeal  Gravy — Bones,  any  cold  remnants  of 
veal,  13^  pints  water,  1  onion,  1  saltspoonful 
minced  lemon  peel,  a  little  salt,  a  blade  of  mace, 
a  few  drops  of  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  butter  and 
flour. 

Place  all  the  ingredients  (excepting  the  lemon 
juice  and  flour)  into  a  stewpan,  and  allow  them 
to  simmer  for  1  hour.  Strain  into  a  basin.  Add 
a  thickening  of  butter  and  flour  mixed  with  a 
little  water,  also  the  lemon  juice.  Give  one  boil 
and  serve  very  hot.  Flavor  with  tomato  sauce 
or  catsup. 

Cheap  Orayy  for  Fowls,  Etc.— Boil  the  neck 
and  feet  of  the  fowl  in  ^  pint  water  with  any 
slight  seasonings  of  spices  or  herbs,  or  salt  and 
pepper  only;  stew  very  slowly  for  1  hour.  Just 
before  serving,  take  the  gravy  from  the  dripping- 
pan,  drain  off  the  fat,  and  strain  the  liquor  from 
the  neck  to  it;  pass  the  gravy  again  through  a 
strainer,  add  salt  and  pepper,  heat  it,  and  serve 
very' hot. 

Oravy  for  a  Goose  or  Duck  — Prepare  in 

same  way  as  for  general  use,  with  the  addition 
of  an  onion  and  some  sage. 


SAUGBS. 


THE  appearance  and  preparation  of  sauces, 
are  of  the  highest  importance.  Brown  sau- 
ces should  not  be  as  thick  as  white  ones,  and 
should  possess  a  decided  character,  so  that,  both 
whether  sweet  or  sharp,  plain  or  savory,  they 
would  bear  out  their  names.  Care  is  also  to  be 
taken  that  they  blend  and  harmonize  Avith  the 
various  dishes  they  are  to  accompany. 

White  Sauce— One  pint  milk,  2  or  3  mush- 
rooms, 1  onion,  1  carrot,  1  bundle  sweet  herbs, 
whole  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a  few  cloves,  a 
little  mace,  1  oz.  butter,,  and  1  gill  cream. 

Put  into  1  pint  milk  2  or  3  mushrooms,  1 
onion  and  a  carrot  cut  into  pieces,  1  bundle  of 
sweet  herbs,  whole  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a 
few  cloves  and  a  little  mace;  let  the  whole  gently 
simmer  for  about  an  hour;  put  1  ounce  of  butter 
into  a  saucepan,  and  stir  on  the  fire  until  it 
thickens.     Finish  by  stirring  in  1  gill  cream. 

Horseradish  Sauce— Two  oz.  horseradish,  6 
tablespoonfuls  milk  or  cream,  3  dessertspoon- 
fuls vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  3^  do.  pepper. 

Grate  the  horseradish,  mix  it  with  salt,  sugar 
and  pepper.  Add  the  cream  or  milk  very  gradu- 
ally, and  heat  the  whole  over  the  fire,  stirring 
weU  all  the  time.  If  allowed  to  boil  it  will  spoil. 
Serve  with  hot  roast  beef. 

Sauce  for  Wild  Fowl  — Half  pint  gravy,  1 
small  onion,  3  or  4  leaves  basil,  a  piece  of  the 
thin  rind  of  a  lemon,  1  dessertspoonful  lemon 
juice. 

Boil  the  gravy,  onion  and  basil  together  for  a 
few  minutes,  strain,  and  add  the  lemon  iuice. 
Seville  orange  juice  may  be  used  instead  of 
lemon. 

87 


88  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Standard  Sauce  for  Fish  —  Maitre  d'hotej 
butter  is  prepared  by  mixing  together,  cold,  1 
tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  finely  chopped 
parsley;  add  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  a 
little  pepper  and  salt.  Work  well  together,  and 
when  ready  to  serve  the  fish,  spread  it  generously 
with  the  butter  and  set  the  dish  in  the  mouth  of 
the  oven  for  a  minute  or  two.  The  parsley  must 
be  as  fine  as  powder. 

Egg  Sauce  for  Fish — Boil  2  eggs  for  10  min- 
utes, and  then  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  5  min- 
utes. Remove  the  shells,  and  mince  them  very 
fine.  Beat  }^  lb.  butter,  mix  eggs  and  butter 
well  together,  make  them  hot,  and  serve  with  salt 
fish. 

Egg  Sauce  for  Puddings  —  Beat  yolk  of  1 
egg  with  a  little  sugar  and  cream,  stir  till  it 
boils,  when  add  a  few  drops  of  flavoring  to  taste. 

Liver  Sauce — Livers  of  any  kind  of  poultry, 
butter,  flour,  minced  shallots,  gravy  stock,  a 
small  pinch  of  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  spices 
and  salt,  and  juice  of  3^  lemon. 

Scald  the  livers  of  the  poultry,  rabbits  or  hares 
and  mince  them  finely.  Melt  a  piece  of  batter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  a  little  flour  to  it  and  a  small 
quantity  of  minced  shallots.  Let  the  whole  fry 
for  a  minute  or  two,  then  add  gravy  stock  in  suffi- 
cient quantity  to  make  a  sauce,  and  a  small 
pinch  of  powdered  sweet  herbs,  and  pepper, 
spices  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  in  the  minced 
livers  and  let  the  sauce  boil  20  minutes,  and  at 
the  time  of  serving  add  a  small  piece  of  fresh 
butter  and  the  juice  of  }4  lemon.  ^ 

Fennel  Sauce — Fennel,  3  oz.  butter,  flour, 
pepper  and  salt,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  juice  of  1  lemon. 

Blanch  a  small  quantity  in  boiling  salted 
water,  take  it  out,  dry  it  in  a  cloth,  and  chop  it 


Sauces.  89 

finely;  melt  3  oz.  fresh  butter,  add  rather  more 
than  a  tablespoonful  flour,  mix  well,  and  put  in 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  about  a  pint  hot 
water;  stir  on  the  fire  till  the  sauce  thickens,  then 
stir  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  up  with  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  and  strained.  Add  plenty  of 
chopped  fennel,  and  serve. 

Shrimp  Sauce — Half  pint  shrimps,  juice  of  }4 
lemon,  butter,  a  dust  of  cayenne. 

Take  l^  pint  shrimps,  pick  out  all  the  meat 
from  the  tails,  pound  the  rest  in  a  mortar  with 
the  juice  of  3^  lemon  and  a  piece  of  butter;  pass 
the  whole  through  a  sieve.  Make  1  pint  melted 
butter,  put  the  meat  from  the  tails  into  it,  add 
a  dust  of  cayenne,  and  when  the  sauce  boils  stir 
into  it  the  shrimp  butter  that  has  come  through 
the  sieve,  with  or  without  a  tablespoonful  of 
cream. 

Mock  Cream  Sauce  —  Pour  ^  pint  boiling 
milk  on  1  teaspoonful  arrowroot,  previously 
mixed  in  a  small  quantity  of  cold  milk.  Stir 
the  mixture  well,  and,  when  moderately  warm, 
add  the  white  of  1  egg  well  beaten.  Place  the 
whole  over  the  fire,  and  stir  it  till  it  nearly  boils. 

Fruit  Sauce — Half  pint  sugar,  cinnamon,  bay 
leaf,  cloves,  and  any  kind  of  fruit. 

Put  }/2  lb.  sugar  and  ^  pint  water  over  the 
fire  to  laoil,  skim  and  boil  5  minutes,  add  to  this 
a  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  about  2  inches  long,  1 
bay  leaf  and  4  cloves;  at  the  end  of  5  minutes 
add  3^  pint  any  kind  of  mashed  fruit;  for  in- 
stance, apricots,  stewed  apples;  in  fact,  any  fruit 
that  will  go  nicely  with  the  pudding  with  which 
you  expect  to  serve  the  sauce.  Strain  the  whole 
through  a  sieve,  flavor,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Cauliflower  Sauce  —  Two  small  cauliflowers, 
13^  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  flour,  pepper  and 
salt,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  juice  of  a  lemon. 


90  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Boil  2  small  cauliflowers;  when  done,  pick 
them  out  into  sprigs  and  arrange  them,  heads 
downward,  in  a  pudding  basin,  which  must  have 
been  made  quite  hot;  press  them  in  gently,  then 
turn  them  out  dexterously  on  a  dish,  and  pour 
over  them  the  following  sauce,  boiling  hot:  Melt 
13^  oz.  butter  in  a  saucepan,  mix  with  it  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  then  add  3^  pint  of  boiling 
water;  stir  till  it  thickens;  add  salt  and  white 
pepper  to  taste;  then  take  the  saucepan  off  the 
fire,  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  up 
with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  strained. 

Dutch  Sauce  —  Three  tablespoonfuls  vinegar, 
1  lb.  butter,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  pepper  and  salt. 

Put  3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar  in  a  saucepan, 
and  reduce  it  on  the  fire  to  a  third;  add  1^  lb.  but- 
ter and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Place  the  saucepan 
on  a  slow  fire,  stir  the  contents  continuously,  and 
as  fast  as  the  butter  melts  add  more,  until  1  lb.  is 
used.  If  the  sauce  becomes  too  thick  at  any 
time  during  the  process,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
cold  water  and  continue  stirring.  Then  put  in 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  take  great  care  not 
to  let  the  sauce  boil.  When  it  is  made — that  is, 
when  all  the  butter  is  used  and  the  sauce  is  of 
the  proper  thickness — put  the  saucepan  contain- 
ing it  into  another  filled  with  warm  (not  boiling) 
water  until  the  time  of  serving. 

Sweet  Sauce  —  One  tablespoonful  flour,  sugar 
or  molasses,  1  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  lemon 
juice. 

Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  quite  smooth  in 
4  tablespoonfuls  water,  then  stir  into  it  3^  pint 
boiling  water,  sugar  or  molasses  to  taste;  stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  sauce  boils,  when,  if  allowed,  an 
ounce  of  butter  may  be  added,  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  lemon  juice.  When  sweetened  with  sugar,  a 
little  nutmeg  or  ground  cinnamon  may  be  used 


Sauces.  91 

instead  of  lemon  juice,  if  preferred.  A  table- 
spoonful  of  raspberry  jam  or  any  fruit  syrup 
may  be  used  to  flavor  the  sauce,  and  is  generally 
much  liked. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  —  Yolks  of  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  mustard,  vinegar,  olive  oil  or  butter. 

Take  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  and  mash 
smooth  with  ^  teaspoonful  mustard  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  olive  oil;  then  add  slowly  j4  teacup 
vinegar;  if  olive  oil  is  not  liked,  melted  butter 
may  be  used  instead. 

Poor  Man's  Sauce  —  A  good-sized  onion,  but- 
ter, }/2  pint  common  stock  or  water,  vinegar, 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  flour. 

Mince  a  good-sized  onion,  not  too  finely,  put 
it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter  equal 
to  it  in  bulk.  Fry  till  the  onion  assumes  a  light 
brown  color,  add  3^  pint  common  stock  or  water 
and  a  small  quantity  of  vinegar,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  some  minced  parsley;  then  stir 
the  sauce  into  another  saucepan,  in  which  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  small  piece  of 
butter  have  been  mixed,  over  the  fire.  Let  the 
sauce  boil  up,  and  it  is  ready. 

A  Cheap  Brown  Sauce  —  One  pint  brown 
stock,  1%  oz.  flour,  2  oz.  butter,  4  mushrooms, 
salt  and  pepper. 

Put  the  butter  into  a  stewpan  and  put  it  on 
the  fire  to  melt;  wash  the  mushrooms  in  cold 
water,  cut  off  the  stalks  and  peel  them;  when  the 
butter  is  melted  stir  in  the  flour  and  mix  to  a 
smooth  paste;  then  add  the  stock  and  mush- 
rooms, and  stir  the  sauce  smoothly  until  it  boils 
and  thickens;  then  remove  the  stewpan  to  the 
back  of  the  stove  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  8 
or  10  minutes;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  be 
careful  to  skim  off  the  butter  as  it  rises  to  the 


liite  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

top  of  the  sauce.  Should  the  sauce  be  not 
brown  enough,  a  teaspoonful  of  caramel  might 
be  stirred  into  it;  strain  and  serve. 

Onion  Sauce  (Brown)  —  Two  oz.  butter,  ra- 
ther more  than  3^  pint  of  rich  gravy,  6  large 
onions,  pepper  and  salt. 

Put  into  your  stewpan  the  onions,  sliced,  fry 
them  of  a  light  brown  color,  with  2  oz.  of  butter; 
keep  them  stirred  well  to  prevent  them  turning 
black;  as  soon  as  they  are  of  a  nice  color,  pour 
over  the  gravy,  and  simmer  gently  until  tender; 
skim  off  all  fat,  add  seasoning  and  rub  the  whole 
through  a  sieve;  then  put  in  a  saucepan,  and 
when  it  boils,  serve. 

Tomato  Sauce  —  Ten  lbs.  ripe  tomatoes,  1 
pint  best  brown  vinegar,  2  oz.  salt,  3^  oz.  cloves, 
1  oz.  allspice,  3^  lb.  white  sugar,  1  oz.  garlic,  ^ 
oz.  black  pepper,  3^  oz.  cayenne  pepper. 

Wipe  the  tomatoes  clean,  and  boil  or  bake  till 
soft;  then  strain  and  rub  through  a  sieve  that 
will  retain  the  seeds  and  skins.  Boil  the  juice  for 
an  hour,  then  add  the  above  ingredients  (all  the 
spices  must  be  ground).  Boil  all  together  for 
a  sufficient  time,  which  may  be  known  by  the 
absence  of  any  watery  particle,  and  by  the  whole 
becoming  a  smooth  mass;  5  hours  will  generally 
suffice.  Bottle  without  straining  into  perfectly 
dry  bottles,  and  cork  securely  when  cold.  The 
garlic  must  be  peeled.  The  proportions  of  spice 
may  be  varied  according  to  taste. 

Oyster  Sauce  —  Oysters,  butter,  flour,  milk, 
blade  of  mace,  bay  leaf,  pepper  and  salt,  cayenne, 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

Parboil  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  beard 
them,  and  reserve  all  the  liquor.  Melt  a  piece  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  little  flour,  the  oyster 
liquor,  and  enough  milk  to  make  as  much  sauce 


Sawces.  93 

as  is  wanted.  Put  in  a  blade  of  mace  and  a  bay- 
leaf  tied  together,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and 
the  least  bit  of  cayenne.  Let  the  sauce  boil,  add 
the  oysters,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  quite  hot  re- 
move the  mace  and  bay  leaf,  stir  in  a  few  drops 
of  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

Worcester  Sauce— Two  tablespoonfuls  Indian 
soy,  2  ditto  walnut  catsup,  1  dessertspoonful  of 
salt,  1  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper,  1  nutmeg 
(sliced  thin),  1  doz.  cloves,  %  oz.  root  ginger 
pounded,  a  little  lemon  peel,  a  small  head  of 
garlic  divided  into  cloves,  1  pint  vinegar,  3  oz. 
lump  sugar. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  a  little  of  the  vinegar 
over  the  fire,  add  the  other  ingredients;  put  all 
into  a  wide-necked  bottle.  It  should  stand  for 
a  month  before  using,  and  is  better  if  shaken 
every  day.  At  the  end  of  the  month  pour  off 
clear  into  bottles. 

Chestnut  Sauce  —  Remove  the  outer  shell 
from  some  fine  chestnuts,  scald  them  in  boiling 
water,  and  remove  the  inner  skin.  Stew  them  in 
good  white  stock  till  quite  tender,  drain,  and 
while  hot  press  them  through  a  sieve.  Put  the 
pulp  into  a  saucepan,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter, 
a  little  sugar,  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  over  the  fire 
till  quite  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  and  serve. 

Mushroom  Sauce  — Remove  the  stalks  and 
gritty  part  from  1^  pint  of  mushrooms;  wash, 
drain,  and  put  them  into  %  pint  of  well-flavored 
gravy,  simmer  them  till  quite  tender,  drain  them, 
and  keep  them  hot.  Melt  1  oz.  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  to  it  1  oz.  flour,  stir  over  the 
fire  till  brown;  pour  in  the  gravy,  stirring  till  it 
boils.  Arrange  the  mushrooms  in  the  center  of 
the  dish,  the  cutlets  round  them,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over. 


94 


White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 


Chile  Sauce — One  bn.  ripe  tomatoes,  2  doz. 
large  onions;  chop  very  fine  and  boil  1  hour; 
then  add  1  pint  salt,  2}£  quarts  vinegar,  5  red 
peppers  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
ground  ginger  and  cinnamon,  and  1  each  of 
cloves  and  nutmeg.  Boil  steadily  for  about  2 
hours;  bottle  and  seal  tightly. 

Bread  Sauce  (for  Poultry  or  Game)— Gib- 
lets, ^  lb.  stale  bread,  1  onion,  10  whole  pep- 
pers, 1  blade  mace,  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  cream. 

Put  the  giblets  into  1  pint  water,  add  the 
onion,  pepper,  mace,  salt.  Allow  it  to  simmer 
for  1  hour,  then  strain  the  liquor  over  the  bread 
crumbs.  Cover  the  stewpan  and  let  it  stand  on 
the  stove  for  1  hour  (do  not  allow  it  to  boil), 
then  beat  the  sauce  up  with  a  fork  until  it  is  nice 
and  smooth.  Allow  it  to  boil  5  minutes,  stirring 
well  until  it  is  thick,  then  add  cream  and  serve 
hot. 

Caper  Sauce — Two  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  1  pint  stock,  pepper  and  salt,  Worcester 
sauce,  capers. 

Put  2  oz.  butter  and  1  tablespoonful  flour  into 
a  saucepan;  stir  the  mixture  on  the  fire  until  it 
acquires  a  brown  color;  add  rather  less  than  1 
pint  boiling  stock,  free  from  fat;  season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  a  little  Worcester  sauce.  When 
the  sauce  boils  throw  in  plenty  of  capers;  let  it 
boil  once  more,  and  it  is  ready. 

Sauce  HoUandaise  —  Take  a  scant  }4  cup 
good  butter.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  and 
add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  beating  them  into  the 
butter  with  the  juice  of  3^  lemon.  Add  1  sliced 
onion,  6  peppercorns  and  1  bay  leaf.  Set  the 
bowl  containing  the  sauce  in  a  basin  of  boiling 
water  and  stir  it  continually  for  a  few  moments. 
Then  add  a  little  boiling  stock  with  a  little 
grated  nutmeg  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.     Con- 


(Sauces.  95 

tinue  stirring  it  for  about  5  minutes  longer, 
when  it  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  a  custard 
and  perfectly  smooth.  Strain  it  through  a  sieve, 
add  1  teaspoonful  butter  and  serve. 

-  Mint  Sauce — Chop  1  bunch  fresh  mint  fine, 
mix  with  1  tablespoonful  sngar,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  pepper,  rub  well  together,  and  add  3^  cup 
vinegar,  with  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice. 


STOCKS. 


Common  Stock— Take  all  the  bones  of  joints, 
etc.,  that  are  available,  carcasses  and  bones  of 
poultry  and  game  (not  high),  chop  them  all  into 
convenient  pieces  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan 
together  with  any  scraps  of  meat,  cooked  or  un- 
cooked, resulting  from  remnants,  the  trimming 
of  cutlets,  etc.  Add  a  couple  of  carrots,  1  onion, 
1  bunch  parsley,  1  bay  leaf,  a  small  sprig  thyme, 
and  1  marjoram;  salt  to  taste,  a  small  quantity 
of  white  pepper  and  allspice  mixed,  and  2  or  3 
cloves.  Fill  the  saucepan  with  cold  water  until 
it  covers  the  contents  by  1  inch,  and  set  it  on 
the  fire  to  boil  slowly  for  about  4  hours;  strain 
the  liquor  through  a  cloth  into  a  basin  and  when 
cold,  the  cake  of  fat  on  the  top  being  removed, 
the  stock  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Gravy  Stock — Place  a  layer  of  slices  of  onion 
in  a  saucepan  holding  1  gal.,  over  this  a  layer  of 
fat  bacon,  and  over  all  about  2  lbs.  shin  of  beef 
chopped  in  small  pieces;  1  pint  common  stock, 
or  even  water,  being  poured  on  the  whole,  set  the 
saucepan  on  the  fire  for  1  hour,  until  the  liquor 
is  almost  evaporated — what  is  called  reduced  to 
a  "glaze" — then  add  sufficient  cold  common 
stock  or  cold  water  to  cover  contents  of  the 
saucepan,  and  2  or  3  carrots  cut  in  slices,  1  leek, 
1  head  celery  (when  in  season),  or  some  celery 
seed,  1  handful  parsley,  y^  clove  garlic,  1  sprig 
marjoram  and  1  of  thyme,  1  bay  leaf,  4  or  5 
cloves,  white  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  After 
boiling  for  about  3  hours  strain  off  the  liquor, 
and,  being  absolutely  freed  from  fat,  it  is  ready 
for  use. 

Veal  stock — Toss  a  couple  of  onions,  sliced, 
and  1  lb.  lean  veal  cut  in  pieces  in  a  saucepan 
with  some  butter  until  they  assume  a  light  color, 
then   add   3^   lb.   ham   chopped  up  small,   and 

96 


stocks.  97 

moisten  with  1  pint  common  stock  cold  and  per- 
fectly free  from  fat.  Let  the  liquor  reduce 
almost  to  a  "glaze" — then  add  2  quarts  cold 
common  stock,  1  knuckle  veal,  or  2  calves'  feet, 
a  couple  of  carrots,  head  of  celery,  parsley,  bay 
leaf,  thyme,  mace,  pepper  and  salt,  all  in  due 
proportion.  After  boiling  2  or  3  hours,  strain 
free  from  fat. 


VEGETABLES. 

VEGETABLES  should  be  carefully  cleaned 
from  insects,  and  nicely  washed.  Boil  in 
plenty  of  water,  and  drain  the  moment 
they  are  done  enough.  If  overboiled,  they  lose 
their  beauty  and  crispness.  To  dress  them  with 
meat  is  wrong,  except  carrots  with  boiled  beef. 
To  boil  vegetables  green,  be  sure  the  water 
boils  when  you  put  them  in.  Make  them  boil 
very  fast.  Don't  cover,  but  watch  them ;  and  if 
the  water  has  not  slackened,  you  may  be  sure 
they  are  done  when  they  begin  to  sink.  Then 
take  them  out  immediately.  Hard  water,  especi- 
ally if  chalybeate,  sjDoils  the  color.  To  boil 
green  in  hard  water,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
or  wormwood  into  the  water  when  it  boils, 
before  the  vegetables  are  put  in. 

Te^etaMe  Marrow  (to  Boil  or  Stew)— This 
excellent  vegetable  may  be  boiled  as  asparagus. 
When  boiled,  divide  it  lengthwise  into  two,  and 
serve  it  on  toast  accompanied  by  melted  butter; 
or  when  nearly  boiled,  divide  it  as  above,  and 
stew  gently  in  gravy.  Care  should  be  taken  to 
choose  young  ones  not  exceeding  6  in.  in  length. 

Spinach  —  Wash  and  pick  your  spinach  very 
carefully;  drop  into  boiling  water  and  cook  15 
minutes.  Drain  thoroughly  through  a  colander, 
then  chop  quite  fine.  Return  to  the  stove,  add  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste; 
put  in  a  vegetable  dish  and  garnish  with  hard- 
boiled  eggs. 

To  Stew  Celery  —  Wash,  cut  into  neat  slices, 
removing  the  green  parts.  Plunge  into  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  cover  it,  adding  salt  in  the  pro- 
portion of  a  dessertspoonful  to  2  qts.  of  water. 

98 


Vegetables.  99 

Stew  until  tender,  serve  in  a  dish  with  white 
sauce  over.  The  celery  may  be  stewed  in  stock 
if  preferred. 

How  to  Serve  Potatoes— A  great  deal  of  ignor- 
ance is  often  shown  by  excellent  housekeepers  in 
putting  potatoes  on  the  table.  The  usual  prac- 
tice of  bringing  them  up  in  a  porcelain  or  deep 
dish,  with  a  close-fitting  cover,  would  utterly  de- 
stroy the  best  potatoes  in  ten  minutes,  however 
carefully  cooked.  They  should  be  placed  in  a 
wooden  dish,  or  served  in  a  porcelain  dish  with 
towels  above  and  below  to  absorb  the  moisture. 

Potatoes  (Stuffed)  —  Five  medium-sized  po- 
tatoes, 3^  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  grated 
cheese,  pepper,  salt,  and  yolk  of  1  egg. 

Bake  the  potatoes  in  their  skins,  and  when 
done  cut  off  a  small  slice  from  one  end,  scoop  out 
the  inside,  and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve.  "  Add 
to  it  3^  an  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  grated 
cheese,  pepper,  salt,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 
Mix  well,  refill  the  skins,  fit  on  the  slices  which 
were  cut  off,  and  put  into  the  oven  again  for  10 
minutes  before  serving. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes  — Into  a  saucepan  put  a 
large  lump  of  butter  and  a  small  onion  finely 
chopped,  and  when  the  onion  is  fried  to  an  am- 
ber color,  throw  in  slices  of  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
which  must  be  thoroughly  stirred  until  they  are 
turning  brown;  at  this  moment  put  in  a  spoon- 
ful of  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  as  soon  as  it 
is  cooked,  drain  through  a  colander,  so  that  the 
potatoes  retain  the  moisture  of  the  butter,  and 
many  particles  of  parsley. 

Potatoes  (Saiitees  an  Beurre)  —  Cut  with  a 
vegetable  cutter  into  small  balls  about  the  size  of 
a  marble;  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  plenty  of 
butter  and  a  good  sprinkling  of  salt;  keep  the 


100  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

saucepan  covered,  and  shake  it  occasionally  un- 
til they  are  quite  done,  which  will  be  in  about  an 
hour. 

Savory  Potatoes  —  Peel  as  many  potatoes  as 
you  require.  Put  them  in  a  pie-dish  with  a  good- 
sized  onion  chopped  fine,  )^  teaspoonful  of 
dried  sage  powdered,  2  oz.  butter  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  olive  oil,  and  enough  water  to  cover 
the  bottom,  of  the  dish.  Pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Saratoga  Potatoes — Saratoga  chips  are  pre- 
pared in  thin,  paper-like  slices  (a  slaw-cutter  is 
required  for  this),  and  crisped,  but  not  burned, 
in  hot  fat.  The  secret  of  preparing  them  prop- 
erly lies  in  cutting  them  first  in  the  thinnest 
slices  possible,  and  soaking  them  for  at  least  1 
hour  in  cold  salt  water.  The  last  process  draws 
the  starch  out  of  the  potato,  and  is  positively 
necessary  to  success.  Before  frying,  each  piece 
must  be  thoroughly  dried  on  a  towel.  When 
taken  out  of  the  fat  they  may  be  drained  on  a 
sieve  a  moment  in  a  very  hot  oven  or  over  the 
stove,  then  cooled  quicMy  in  a  draft. 

Potatoes  (Yirg'ima  Style)— Slice  as  for  Sara- 
toga potatoes,  but  thicker,  soak  in  cold  water, 
drain,  and  fry  in  covered  pan  with  2  or  3  spoon- 
fuls of  suet,  turning  brown  before  they  are  put 
in.  Salt  and  pepper  thickly  while  cooking  at 
leisure. 

Potato  Pancakes — Grate  8  large  potatoes  in  a 
porcelain  bowl,  add  4  eggs,  not  beaten,  1  teacup 
flour,  3^  cup  milk  and  1  even  teaspoonful  bak- 
ing-powder ;  stir  all  lightly  together,  taking  care 
not  to  beat  the  eggs  up  too  much.  Fry  the  same 
as  ordinary  pancakes,  but  longer,  to  cook  thor- 
oughly. 


Vegetables.  101 

Potatoes  (a  la  Creme)— Slice  the  potatoes  as 
for  frying  and  soak  in  cold  water  i^  hour.  Par- 
boil in  a  frying-pan,  pour  the  water  off  and  let 
them  stand  on  the  fire  uncovered  till  the  steam 
is  driven  off;  brown  1  spoonful  of  butter  or  fat 
and  pour  over  them  a  minute  after;  then  cover 
the  potatoes  with  milk,  in  which  they  should 
boil  till  done.  Salt  and  pepper  while  cooking 
and  watch  lest  they  burn.  There  should  be  just 
milk  enough  when  done  for  a  creamy  gravy, 
thickened  by  the  starch  of  the  potatoes. 

Fried  Potatoes— American  fried  potatoes  are 
boiled  first  and  sliced  cold  to  fry.  They  need  a 
large  frying-pan,  or  are  best  cooked  on  a  grid- 
dle which  has  surface  enough  to  let  each  piece 
lie  next  to  the  fire.  Slice  them  }^  inch  thick  so 
as  not  to  break  in  turning.  Salt  and  pepper, 
and  when  the  large  spoonful  of  fat  is  turning 
brown  in  the  hot  pan  lay  them  in,  brown  quickly 
and  turn  with  a  broad  griddle-cake  turner. 

Potatoes  of  secondary  quality  are  best  pared 
and  sliced  raw  and  fried.  The  heat  of  boiling 
fat,  which  is  stronger  than  that  of  boiling  water, 
drives  the  water  out  of  them.  Small,  deep  kettles 
are  sold  for  frying,  and  the  lard  is  kept  in  them 
and  used  many  times  over. 

Potato  Balls  —  Four  large,  mealy  potatoes, 
cold;  mash  them  in  a  pan  with  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  pepper, 
1  tablespoonful  of  cream  and  the  beaten  yolk  of 
1  egg]  rub  it  together  for  about  5  minutes,  or 
until  very  smooth;  shape  the  mixture  into  balls 
about  the  size  of  a  walnut  or  small  rolls,  dip 
them  into  an  egg  well  beaten  and  then  into  the 
finest  sifted  bread  crumbs;  fry  them  in  boiling 
lard. 

Potato  Croquettes  —  Boil  i  dozen  potatoes, 
strain  and  mash  well;  add  2  yolks  of  eggs,  beat 


102  While  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

well  and  season.  When  cold,  mould  in  the  shape 
of  long  corks  and  dip  each  piece  into  beaten 
eggs;  then  roll  in  crumbs  and  fry  a  golden 
brown. 

Scalloped  Potatoes  —  Cut  4  good-sized  boiled 
or  steamed  potatoes  into  dice;  put  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and,  when  melted, 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  mix  until  smooth; 
then  add  1  pint  of  milk,  and  stir  continually 
until  it  boils;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  3 
dashes  of  black  pepper;  take  from  the  fire.  Put 
a  layer  of  this  sauce  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking- 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  another  layer 
of  sauce,  and  so  on  until  all  is  used,  having  the 
last  layer  sauce;  sprinkle  the  top  lightly  with 
bread  crumbs  and  put  in  the  oven  for  15  minutes 
to  brown.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was 
baked. 

Calbl)age(a  la  Caiilillower) — Cut  the  cabbage 
fine  as  for  slaw;  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  cover 
with  water  and  keep  closely  covered;  when 
tender,  drain  off  the  water,  put  in  a  small  piece 
of  butter  with  a  little  salt,  3^  cup  cream,  or  1  cup 
milk.  Leave  on  the  stove  a  few  minutes  before 
serving. 

Parol  (or  Stiiflfed  Cabbage)— Veal  stuffing, 
slices  of  sausage  meat,  gravy. 

Cook  the  cabbage  in  salt  and  water  sufficiently 
to  open  the  leaves,  and  insert  between  them 
layers  of  ordinary  veal  stuffing  and  slices  of 
sausage  meat;  then  tie  it  securely  round  with 
thread  to  prevent  the  meat  falling  out.  Replace 
in  the  stewpan  and  cook  briskly  at  first,  then 
simmer  till  completely  tender.  Serve  in  the 
same  manner  as  ragout  —  that  is  to  say,  with  a 
little  gravy  poured  over  the  whole. 


Vegetables.  103 

Cabbage  for  Roast  Meats  —Take  a  medium- 
sized  head  of  well-bleached  cabbage  and  chop 
very  fine.  Put  in  a  stew-kettle  with  just  enough 
water  to  cook  it  tender,  which  will  depend  some- 
what upon  the  strength  of  the  fire.  Add  salt  to 
taste,  and  when  it  is  cooked,  if  any  water  remains 
in  the  kettle,  drain  it  off;  then  add  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg,  a  little  white  pep- 
per and  enough  milk  to  just  about  cover  the 
cabbage.  This  is  a  very  delicate  way  of  prepar- 
ing this  vegetable,  and  it  goes  nicely  with  roast 
meats. 

Stuffed  Cucumbers  —  Boil  large,  firm  cucum- 
bers until  tender,  scoop  out  the  seeds  and  in 
their  place  put  a  filling  made  of  fine  bread 
crumbs,  well-seasoned,  and  a  little  minced  ham 
or  veal.  Fasten  the  cucumbers  together  with 
tapes  and  put  in  a  baking-pan  with  a  large  cup- 
ful of  water  and  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter; 
baste  frequently  and  bake  3^  hour.  A  delicate 
and  delicious  dish. 

Aux  Poinmes  —  One  red  cabbage,  3  or  4  mod- 
erate-sized apples,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  walnut, 
cloves,  vinegar,  red  currant  jelly,  flour. 

Put  a  red  cabbage  into  a  saucepan,  having 
previously  washed  it  well;  just  cover  it  with 
water;  peel,  halve  and  core  3  or  4  moderate-sized 
apples  and  add  them  to  the  cabbage  with  a  piece 
of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  salt,  pepper 
and  3  or  4  cloves.  Cook  very  gently  over  a  slow 
fire  for  3  hours.  When  ready  to  be  served,  add  1 
dessertspoonful  of  vinegar,  the  same  quantity  of 
red  currant  jelly,  and  sufficient  flour  to  thicken 
the  sauce;  pour  over  and  send  to  table. 

Tomatoes  (Baked) — Half  dozen  tomatoes, 
bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt  and  butter. 

Cut  3^  dozen  tomatoes  in  halves,  remove  the 
pips,  and  fill  the  insides  with  a  mixture  of  bread 


104  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

crumbs,  pepper  and  salt  in  due  proportions; 
place  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each  half  tomato 
and  lay  them  close  together  in  a  well-buttered 
tin;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  )^  hour  and  serve. 
They  may  be  eaten  hot  or  cold. 

Tomatoes  (StiiiFed) — Tomatoes,  shallot,  but- 
ter, bread  crumbs,  ham,  parsley,  sweet  herbei, 
pepper,  salt  and  toast. 

Dip  some  tomatoes  in  hot  water,  peel  them, 
cut  them  in  halves  and  remove  the  pips;  rub  a 
baking-sheet  with  shallot,  butter  it  well,  and  lay 
the  tomatoes  in  it,  filling  each  half  with  the  fol- 
lowing composition:  Two  parts  bread  crumbs, 
1  part  ham  finely  minced,  and,  according  to 
taste,  parsley  and  sweet  herbs  also  finely  minced, 
and  pepper  and  salt.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter 
on  each  half  tomato,  and  bake  them  15  minutes. 
Have  ready  some  round  pieces  of  buttered  toast; 
on  each  of  these  put  a  half  tomato,  and  serve. 

Tomatoes  with  Macaroni  —  Tomatoes,  but- 
ter, pepper,  salt,  bay  leaf,  thyme,  stock  or  gravy, 
macaroni. 

Cut  up  a  quantity  of  tomatoes  and  remove 
from  each  the  pips  and  watery  substance;  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter, pepper,  salt,  a  bay  leaf,  and  some  thyme; 
add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  either  stock  or  gravy; 
keep  stirring  on  the  fire  until  they  are  reduced 
to  a  pulp,  pass  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  and 
dress  the  macaroni  with  this  sauce  and  plenty  of 
Parmesan  cheese  freshly  grated. 

Tomato  Fritters  —  One  quart  stewed  toma- 
toes, 1  egg,  soda,  flour,  lard.  ^ 

Use  1  quart  stewed  tomatoes,  1  egg,  1  small 
teaspoonful  of  soda;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make 
a  batter  like  that  for  griddle  cakes.  Have  some 
lard  very  hot  on  the  stove,  drop  the  batter  in,  a 
spoonful  at  a  time,  and  fry. 


Vegetables.  105 

Tomatoes  (Broiled) —  Large,  fresh  tomatoes, 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  sugar,  an  eggspoonful  of 
made  mustard. 

In  buying  tomatoes  for  broiling,  be  careful  to 
select  large  and  fresh  ones.  Do  not  pare  them. 
Slice  in  pieces  about  ^  inch  thick  and  broil 
them  for  a  few  minutes  upon  a  gridiron;  while 
they  are  broiling,  prepare  some  hot  butter  in  a 
cup,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt,  an  eggspoonful 
of  made  mustard  and  a  little  sugar;  when  the 
tomatoes  are  finished,  dip  each  piece  into  this, 
and  then  dish  (the  dish  must  be  hot).  If  any  of 
the  seasoning  remains,  heat  to  the  point  of  boil- 
ing and  pour  over  the  dish;  serve  immediately. 
This  is  a  very  nice  dish  if  cooked  well. 

Onions  (Boiled)  —  Skin  them  thoroughly. 
Put  them  to  boil;  when  they  have  boiled  a  few 
minutes,  pour  off  the  water  and  add  clean,  cold 
water,  and  then  set  them  to  boil  again.  Pour 
this  away  and  add  more  cold  water,  when  they 
may  boil  till  done.  This  will  make  them  white 
and  clear  and  very  mild  in  flavor.  After  they 
are  done,  pour  off  all  the  water  and  dress  with  a 
little  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Spanish  Onions  (a  la  Grecque)— Peel  off  the 
very  outer  skins  and  cut  off  the  pointed  ends; 
put  the  onions  in  a  deep  dish,  and  put  a  piece  of 
butter  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper  on  the  place 
where  the  point  has  been  cut  off,  cover  with  a 
plate  or  dish,  and  let  them  bake  for  not  less  than 
3  hours.     They  will  throw  out  a  delicious  gravy. 

Peas  and  Carrots— Take  5  or  6  good-sized 
carrots,  scrape,  cut  into  small  dice  and  soak  for 
1  hour  in  cold  water,  then  boil  for  1^  hours 
in  three  times  enough  water  to  cover  them, 
with  salt  to  season  well.  When  thoroughly 
cooked,  drain  off  the  water  and  add  1  can  of 
peas,  well  drained,  and  1  cup  of  milk,  and  place 


106  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

on  the  stove  again.  Mix  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
flour  with  a  good  heaping  teaspoonful  butter, 
and  add  when  the  milk  boils  up.  Cook  for  a  few 
moments,  adding  salt  to  taste,  and  a  good  shake 
of  pepper. 

Onions  (Stuffed) — Very  large  Spanish  onions, 
cold  fat  pork  or  bacon,  bread  crumbs,  pepper, 
salt,  mace,  cream,  1  egg,  butter,  juice  of  )^ 
lemon,  browned  flour,  milk. 

Wash  and  skin  the  onions.  Lay  in  cold  water 
1  hour.  Parboil  in  boiling  water  ^  hour.  Drain, 
and  while  hot  extract  their  hearts,  taking  care 
not  to  break  the  outside  layers.  Chop  the  inside 
thus  obtained  very  fine,  with  a  little  cold  fat 
pork  or  bacon.  Add  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt, 
mace,  and  wet  with  1  or  2  spoonfuls  cream  or 
milk.  Bind  with  a  well-beaten  egg,  and  work 
into  a  smooth  paste.  Stuff  the  onions  with  this; 
put  into  a  dripping-pan  with  a  very  little  hot 
water,  and  simmer  in  the  oven  for  1  hour,  bast- 
ing often  with  butter  melted.  When  done,  take 
the  onions  up  carefully,  and  arrange  the  open 
ends  upwards  in  a  vegetable  dish.  Add  to  the 
gravy  in  the  dripping-pan  the  juice  of  3^  lemon, 
4  tablespoonfuls  cream  or  milk,  and  a  little 
browned  flour  wet  with  cold  milk.  Boil  up  once, 
and  pour  over  the  onions. 

Muslirooms  —  The  cook  should  be  well  ac- 
quainted with  the  different  sort  of  things  called 
by  this  name  by  ignorant  people,  as  the  deaths 
of  many  persons  have  been  caused  by  carelessly 
using  the  poisonous  kinds.  The  eatable  mush- 
rooms first  appear  very  small  and  of  a  round 
form  on  a  very  small  stalk.  They  grow  very 
fast,  and  the  upper  part  and  stalk  are  white.  As 
the  size  increases  the  under  part  gradually  opens 
and  shows  a  fringy  fur  of  a  very  fine  salmon 
color  which  continues  more  or  less  till  the  mush- 


Vegetables.  107 

room  has  been  picked,  when  it  turns  to  a  brown. 
The  skin  can  be  more  easily  peeled  from  the  real 
mushroom  than  the  poisonous  kind.  A  good 
test  is  to  sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  the  spongy  part 
or  gills  of  the  sample  to  be  tried;  if  they  turn 
black  they  are  wholesome,  if  yellow  they  are 
poisonous.  Give  the  salt  a  little  time  to  act  be- 
fore you  decide  as  to  their  quality. 

Mushrooms  (Stewed)  —  Gather  those  that 
have  red  gills;  cut  off  that  part  of  the  stem 
which  grew  in  the  earth;  wash,  and  take  the  skin 
from  the  top;  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  some 
salt;  stew  them  till  tender;  thicken  with  1  spoon- 
ful butter  and  browned  flour. 

Mushrooms  (Broiled)  —  PrejDare  them  as 
directed  for  stewing.  Broil  them  on  a  griddle; 
and  when  done,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  the 
gills,  and  put  a  little  butter  on  them. 

Mushrooms  (Baked) — Pare  the  top  and  cut 

off  part  of  the  stalk,  wipe  them  carefully  with  a 
piece  of  flannel  or  cloth  and  a  little  fine  salt. 
Then  put  them  into  a  baking-dish  and  put  a 
piece  of  butter  an  each  mushroom.  Sprinkle 
with  pepper  to  taste  and  bake  for  20  minutes  or 
'^  hour.  When  done  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with 
the  gravy  poured  over  the  mushrooms. 

Mushrooms  (a  la  Creme)  —  Cut  the  mush- 
rooms in  pieces,  and  toss  them  over  a  brisk  fire 
in  butter  seasoned  with  salt,  a  very  little  nut- 
meg, and  1  bunch  herbs.  When  they  are  done 
enough,  and  the  butter  nearly  all  wasted  away, 
take  out  the  herbs,  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg  beaten 
up  in  some  good  cream;  make  very  hot  and 
serve. 

Parsnips  —  Boil,  mash,  season  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  make  into  little  cakes:  roll  in 
flour  and  brown  in  hot  lard. 


108  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Parsnips  (American  Fashion) — Scrape  and 
boil  some  parsnips,  then  cut  each  lengthwise  in 
four,  and  fry  them  very  brown,  and  dish  in  pairs. 

Parsnips  (Buttered) — Boil  the  parsnips  ten- 
der and  scrape;  slice  lengthwise.  Put  3  table- 
spoonfuls  butter  into  a  saucepan,  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  When  heated 
put  in  the  parsnips.  Shake  and  turn  until  mix- 
ture boils,  then  lay  the  parsnips  in  order  upon  a 
dish,  and  pour  the  butter  over  them  and  serve. 

Parsnips  (Fricasseed) — Scrape  them,  boil  in 
milk  till  they  are  soft;  then  cut  them  lengthwise 
into  pieces  2  or  3  inches  long,  and  simmer  in  a 
white  sauce,  made  of  2  spoonfuls  broth,  1  piece 
mace,  3^  cupful  cream,  a  piece  of  butter,  and 
some  flour,  pepper  and  salt. 

Cucumbers  (to  Dress) — Pare  and  cut  the 
cucumbers  into  slices  as  thin  as  a  wafer  (it  is 
better  to  commence  at  the  thick  end).  Place  in 
a  glass  dish;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
pour  over  it  ^'^  teacupful  vinegar  and  3  table- 
spoonfuls  salad  oil.  This  is  a  nice  accompani- 
ment to  boiled  salmon,  and  is  useful  in  concoct- 
ing a  salad.  It  is  also  an  excellent  garnish  for 
lobster  salad. 

Cucumbers  (Stewed) — Three  large  cucum- 
bers, a  little  butter,  ]^  pint  brown  gravy,  a  little 
flour. 

Cut  the  cucumbers  lengthwise,  removing  the 
seeds.  Have  the  pieces  a  convenient  size  for 
the  dish  they  are  served  in.  Plunge  them  into 
boiling  water  with  a  little  salt.  Allow  it  to  sim- 
mer for  5  minutes.  Put  the  gravy  into  another 
saucepan,  and  when  the  cucumbers  are  done,  re- 
move from  the  water  and  place  in  the  gravy,  and 
allow  to  boil  until  they  are  tender.     If  there 


Vegetables,  103 

should  be  a  bitter  taste,  add  1  teaspoonful  granu- 
lated sugar.  Dish  carefully,  skim  the  sauce,  and 
pour  over  the  cucumbers. 

Cuciimli)ers  (Fried) — Pare  cucumbers,  cut  in 
slices,  press  the  slices  upon  a  dry  clean  cloth; 
dredge  with  flour;  have  ready  a  pasn  of  boiling 
oil  or  butter,  put  the  slices  into  it,  and  keep 
turning  them  until  they  are  brown;  remove  them 
from  pan  and  lay  upon  a  sieve  to  drain.  Serve 
on  a  hot  dish. 

Lima  Beans  —  One  qt.  of  Lima  beans,  wash 
and  soak  them  over  night  in  cold  water;  simmer 
over  a  slow  fire  4  hours;  then  add  salt,  pepper, 
butter  (the  size  of  an  egg),  and  1  qt.  of  sweet 
milk;  boil  for  3^  hour. 

Lima  and  Butter  Beans  —  Shell  and  place  in 
cold  water,  allowing  them  to  remain  in  the  water 
3^  hour;  then  put  into  boiling  water  with  a 
little  salt  and  cook  until  tender;  drain,  and  but- 
ter and  pepper. 

French  Beans — Top,  tail  and  string  the  beans 
carefully;  cut  in  pieces  about  an  inch  long;  lay 
in  cold  salt  water  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  drain, 
plunge  into  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  boil 
until  tender;  drain  in  a  colander;  dish  with 
lump  of  of  butter  stirred  in. 

Turnips  (Boiled)  —  Pare  and  cut  in  pieces; 
put  them  into  boiling  water  well  salted,  and  boil 
until  tender;  drain  thoroughly  and  then  mash 
and  add  a  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  stir  till 
they  are  thoroughly  mixed,  and  serve  hot. 

Turnips  (German  Becipe)  —  Six  large  tur- 
nips, 3  oz.  butter,  %  pint  weak  stock,  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  pepper  and  salt. 


110  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Heat  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  pare  and  cut  the 
turnips  into  pieces  the  size  of  dice  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt;  then  place  in  the  hot  but- 
ter, toss  over  the  fire  for  5  minutes,  add  the  stock 
and  simmer  gently  until  the  turnips  are  tender. 
Brown  the  flour  with  a  little  butter;  add  this  to 
the  turnips  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Boiled  mut- 
ton may  be  served  with  this  dish. 

Turnips  (a  la  Creme)  —  Small  new  turnips; 
peel  and  boil  in  salted  water;  drain  thoroughly. 
Melt  1  oz.  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  to  it  a  des- 
sertspoonful of  flour,  pepper,  salt,  grated  nut- 
meg, and  a  small  quantity  of  milk  or  cream;  put 
in  the  turnips;  simmer  gently  a  few  minutes, 
and  serve. 

Turnips  (a  la  Maitre)  —  Boil  some  small 
new  turnips  as  in  the  preceding  recipe;  drain 
them  thoroughly,  and  melt  some  butter  in  the 
saucepan;  put  the  turnips  in,  give  them  a  toss 
or  two,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and 
salt,  a  sqeeeze  of  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

Carrots  (to  Boil)  —  Place  upon  the  stove  two 
quarts  of  warm  water  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
salt;  bring  to  a  boil;  wash  and  scrape  six  young 
carrots,  remove  any  black  specks,  cut  in  halves, 
plunge  into  the  boiling  water,  and  boil  until  ten- 
der; drain,  and  serve  upon  a  hot  dish. 

Carrots  (Stewed)  —  Wash  and  scrape  the  car- 
rots; split  the  largest.  Then  whiten  them  in  hot 
water,  and  drain  them  on  a  sieve;  then  boil  them 
in  weak  broth,  with  salt;  then  put  some  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  with  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour; 
stir  it  and  brown  it.  Add  the  carrots  to  it,  broth 
and  pepper.     Stir,  and  let  all  simmer  together. 

Salsify  (Boiled)  —  Scrape  the  roots,  cut  them 
in  short  lengths,  and  throw  them  into  vinegar  and 


Vegetables.  Ill 

water  as  they  are  being  done.  Boil  them  till 
tender  in  salted  water,  drain  them,  toss  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter,  a  little 
lemon  juice,  and  some  minced  parsley,  add  salt 
and  serve. 

Eg-g"  Plant  (Baked)  — Parboil  15  minutes. 
Then  make  a  triangular  cut  in  the  top;  remove 
the  piece  and  take  out  the  seeds.  Let  it  lie  for 
an  hour  in  water,  to  which  a  tablespoonful  of 
salt  has  been  added.  Make  a  stuffing  of  one  cup 
of  crumbs,  two  ounces  of  salt  pork,  and  an  onion 
chopped  fine,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  J^  teaspoonful 
pepper  and  nutmeg  mixed;  wet  with  half  a  cup 
of  boiling  water  or  stock,  and  fill  the  egg  plant, 
tying  a  string  around  it  to  keep  the  piece  in 
place.  Bake  an  hour,  basting  often  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  butter  in  a  cup  of  water. 

Hotch-Potcll  —  Put  a  pint  of  peas  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  quart  of  water,  and  boil  them 
until  they  will  pulp  through  a  sieve;  then  take 
the  lean  end  of  a  loin  of  mutton,  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  gallon  of 
water,  the  carrots  and  turnips  cut  into  small 
pieces,  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt;  boil 
it  until  all  the  vegetables  are  quite  tender,  put 
in  the  pulped  peas  and  a  head  of  celery  (or  let- 
tuce) and  one  onion,  sliced;  let  it  boil  15  min- 
utes and  serve. 

Green  Corn  (Stewed)  —  Having  cut  the  com 
from  the  cob,  put  into  boiling  water  and  allow 
to  stew  3^  hour;  remove  nearly  all  the  water  and 
cover  with  milk,  and  allow  to  stew  until,  tender; 
before  dishing,  roll  some  pieces  of  butter  in  flour 
and  mix  with  the  corn,  adding  a  little  pepper 
and  salt;  give  one  boil  and  serve. 

Green  Corn  (Boiled)  —  Strip  off  all  the  outer 
husks,  allowing  the  innermost  to  remain;  remove 
the  silk  and  re-cover  the  ear  with  the  remaining 


112  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

hnsk,  secure  with  a  piece  of  thread,  plunge  into 
boiling  salted  water,  and  boil  %  tio^r.  Cut  off 
stalks  and  dish  upon  a  napkin. 

Green  Corn  (Roasted)  —  Open  the  husks, 
remove  the  silk,  close  the  husks  closely,  and 
roast  in  the  ashes  of  a  wood  fire  until  tender; 
serve  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  This  is  fre- 
quently eaten  in  camp. 

Summer  Squash  —  Pare  the  outer  rind,  re- 
move the  seeds,  quarter,  and  lay  in  ice  water  10 
minutes;  put  into  boiling  water,  a  little  salt, and 
cook  until  tender;  press  all  the  water  from  them. 
Mash  smooth,  season  with  butter  and  pepper 
and  serve  not. 

Winter  Squasll  —  Proceed  as  above,  allowing 
more  time  to  cook;  before  putting  into  the  boil- 
ing water,  allow  it  to  soak  in  cold  water  3  hours. 

Cauliflower  (Boiled)  —  Wash  in  2  or  3  waters. 
Cut  off  the  end  of  stalk  and  outer  leaves,  allow 
to  lie  in  salt  and  water  5  minutes,  plunge  into 
boiling  salted  water,  and  boil  15  or  20  minates; 
drain  and  serve  hot. 

Cauliflower  (Fried)  —  Pick  out  all  the  green 
leaves  from  a  cauliflower,  and  cut  off  the  stalk 
close;  put  it  head  downward  in  a  saucepan  full 
of  boiling  salted  water;  do  not  overboil  it;  drain 
it  on  a  sieve,  pick  it  out  into  small  sprigs,  and 
place  in  a  deep  dish  with  plenty  of  vinegar, 
whole  pepper,  salt,  and  a  few  cloves.  When  it 
has  lain  about  an  hour  in  this  drain  it,  dip  in 
batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  to  a  golden  color. 

Cauliflower  (Scalloped)  —  Choose  a  cauli- 
flower of  medium  size,  boil  it  20  minutes;  put 
into  a  saucepan  1  oz.  butter,  %  gill  milk,  and  1 
oz.  bread  crumbs;  add  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  stir  till  the  bread  has  absorbed  the  milk  and 
butter.     Beat  an  egg  and  add  this  to  the  sauce, 


Vegetables.  113 

but  be  sure  that  it  does  not  simmer  after  the  egg 
has  been  added.  Butter  a  flat  tin  dish,  take  off 
the  fine  leaves  of  the  cauliflower  and  place  them 
all  round  on  it,  break  up  the  flower  carefully  and 
lay  in  the  center,  making  it  as  high  as  possible; 
pour  the  sauce  over  this,  sprinkle  a  few  bread- 
crumbs on  the  top,  and  bake  10  minutes. 

Oreeii  Peas  (to  Keep)  —  Shell,  and  put  them 
into  a  kettle  of  water  when  it  boils;  give  them 
2  or  3  warmings  only,  and  pour  them  in  a  col- 
ander; when  the  water  drains  off,  turn  them  out 
on  a  table  covered  with  cloth,  and  pour  them  on 
another  cloth  to  dry  perfectly;  then  bottle  them 
in  wide-mouthed  bottles,  leaving  only  room  to 
pour  clarified  mutton-suet  upon  them  an  inch 
thick,  and  for  the  cork.  Resin  it  down,  and  keep 
it  in  the  cellar  or  in  the  earth.  When  they  are  to 
be  used,  boil  them  till  tender,  with  a  piece  of 
butter,  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  little  mint. 

Green  Peas  (Stewed)  —  Put  a  quart  of  peas, 
a  lettuce  and  an  onion,  both  sliced,  a  piece  of 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  no  more  water  than 
hangs  round  the  lettuce  from  washing;  stew  them 
2  hours  very  gently.  When  to  be  served,  beat 
up  an  egg  and  stir  it  in,  or  a  little  flour  and 
butter.  Some  think  a  teaspoonful  of  white 
powdered  sugar  is  an  improvement. 

Green   Peas   (a   la   Francaise)  —  Put    the 

required  quantity  of  peas  necessary  for  your 
dish  into  a  perfectly  clean  and  bright  stewpan, 
with  some  water  and  butter  in  the  following  pro- 
portions: For  every  pint  of  peas  1  gill  water  and 
1  oz.  butter.  When  this  is  thoroughly  amalgam- 
ated, add  a  little  bouquet,  tied  together,  of 
parsley,  also  salt,  pepper,  and  another  3^  oz. 
butter,  then  8  or  9  small  white  onions,  and  a 
whole  lettuce.  Simmer  the  whole  well  for  an 
hour,  or  more  if  the  peas  and  other  vegetables 


114  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

are  not  completely  tender.  The  time,  in  fact, 
must  be  regulated  according  to  the  judgment  of 
the  cook.  When  done,  take  out  the  bunch  of 
parsley,  the  lettuce,  and  the  onions,  which  are 
very  serviceable  for  hashes,  stews  or  soups,  even 
when  used  as  above.  The  peas,  when  once  cook- 
ing, must  not  be  touched  by  a  spoon  or  a  fork, 
as  it  would  bruise  them  and  spoil  the  appearance 
of  the  entree,  but  well  tossed  constantly  to  pre- 
vent them  sticking  to  the  stewpan,  always  kept 
briskly  simmering,  but  never  boiling;  otherwise 
they  will  harden. 

Baked  Beans  —  Beans  should  be  carefully 
looked  over,  thoroughly  washed  and  pmt  to  soak 
over  night  in  about  twice  their  bulk  of  water. 
Put  them  in  the  kettle  soon  after  breakfast  the 
next  morning,  add  about  as  much  water  as  at 
first,  place  them  where  they  will  not  burn,  and 
let  them  cook  slowly  and  without  stirring  until 
about  ten  o'clock.  Then  add  half  a  pound  of 
salt  pork  thoroughly  washed  and  cut  across  the 
rind  in  small  dice.  Place  the  pork  on  the  top  of 
the  beans  and  let  it  boil  for  an  hour  or  more. 
Then  lift  the  meat  out,  turn  the  beans  and  liquor 
into  a  baking-pan,  press  the  water  down  until 
only  the  rind  is  out  of  the  pork,  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  for  several  hours. 

Asparag'US  —  After  scraping  the  stalks  to 
cleanse  them,  place  them  in  a  vessel  of  cold 
water.  Tie  them  up  neatly  into  bundles  of  about 
25  heads  each,  then  place  them  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water,  sprinkling  a  handful  of  salt  over 
it.  When  it  is  boiling  remove  any  scum  there 
may  be;  the  stalks  will  be  tender  when  they  are 
done;  they  will  take  about  twenty  minutes  or 
half  an  hour;  be  careful  to  take  them  up  the 
minute  they  are  done;  have  ready  some  toast, 
dip  it  in  the  liquor  in  which  the  asparagus  was 


Vegetables.  116 

boiled;  dish  upon  toast,  and  serve  with  a  boat  of 
melted  butter. 

Asparagus  in  Amlbush  — Two  bunches  of 
asparagus,  8  stale  biscuits  (or  rolls  may  be  used), 
4  eggs,  about  ^^  pi^^  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  flour,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Take  the  green  tops  of  the  two  bunches  of  aspa- 
ragus, boil  them  tender  and  mince  finely.  While 
they  are  boiling,  take  the  biscuits  or  rolls,  divide 
them,  keeping  the  top  half  for  a  cover;  place 
them  all  in  the  oven  to  crisp:  make  the  milk 
hot,  and  then  pour  in  the  eggs,  beaten;  stir  over 
the  fire  until  it  thickens,  then  add  the  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  lastly  add  the  asparagus; 
spread  the  rolls  with  this  mixture,  put  on  the 
tops  and  serve  hot. 

Asparag-iis  and  Eggs — Twenty-five  or  30 
heads  of  asparagus,  good  rich  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  5  or  6  eggs. 

Boil  the  asparagus  (after  cutting  them  into 
pieces  of  about  3^  an  inch)  for  15  minutes;  take 
a  cup  of  rich  butter  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan; 
drain  the  asparagus,  and  put  it  with  the  butter; 
heat  them  to  a  boil,  seasoning  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  then  pour  into  a  buttered  baking-tin  or 
dish;  break  five  or  six  eggs  neatly  over  the  sur- 
face of  this,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
put  it  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set  nicely. 
Serve  hot. 

Asparagus  Pudding  —Green  tops  of  2  bunches 
of  asparagus,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  flour, 
4  or  5  well-beaten  eggs,  2  dessertspoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  1  teacup  of  milk,  1  pinch  of  soda, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Boil  the  asparagus  and  when  cool  chop  finely; 
take  the  eggs,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  beat 
them  up  together,  then  put  in  the  flour;  stir  the 
soda  into  the  milk,  and  add  gradually;  lastly  put 


116  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

in  the  asparagus.  Put  this  into  a  buttered  mould 
with  a  lid,  or  if  it  has  no  lid  tie  it  down  tightly 
with  a  floured  cloth;  boil  for  two  hours.  When 
done,  turn  out  on  a  dish,  and  pour  melted  butter 
round  it. 

Artichokes,  with  White  Sauce  —  Wash  them 
well,  peel  and  shape  them  to  a  uniform  size; 
throw  them  into  boiling  salted  water,  and  let 
them  boil  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes;  drain  them 
at  once  thoroughly;  put  them  on  a  dish  and  serve 
with  the  following  sauce  poured  over  them:  Mix 
over  the  fire  13^  oz.  butter  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour;  add  3^  pint  of  boiling  water,  white 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  stir  till  the  sauce 
thickens,  then  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire,  and 
stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  up  with 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  strained. 

Artichokes,  with  Cream  —  Prepare  and  par- 
boil them  as  in  the  preceding  recipe;  then  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  due  allowance  of 
white  sauce,  and  let  them  finish  cooking  in  this, 
adding  at  the  last  a  small  quantity  of  cream  and 
grated  nutmeg. 

Artichokes,  with  Oravy  —  Prepare  them  as 
above,  cutting  them  to  the  size  of  pigeon's  eggs. 
Parboil  them  for  ten  minutes,  drain  them  and 
toss  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter; 
then  add  a  small  quantity  of  good  clear  gravy 
and  a  dust  of  pepper.  Let  them  simmer  very 
gently  till  wanted. 

Artichokes  (Mashed)  —  Salted  water,  a  piece 
of  butter,  a  little  cream,  white  pepper,  nutmeg 
and  salt. 

Wash,  peel  and  boil  them  in  salted  water; 
drain,  and  pass  them  through  a  hair  sieve. 
Squeeze  all  the  water  out  of  the  pulp;  put  it  into 
a  saucepan,  and  work  it  on  the  fire,  with  a  piece 


Vegetables.  117 

of  butter  and  a  little  cream,  adding  white  pepper, 
nutmeg  and  salt  if  necessary.  When  quite  hot 
and  suificiently  dry,  serve. 

Artichokes  (Fried)  —  Wash,  peel  and  parboil 
them  whole  for  ten  minutes,  then  cut  them  in 
strips  the  size  of  a  little  finger.  Flour  them  care- 
fully, and  fry  in  hot  lard;  or  they  may  be  dipped 
in  batter  and  fried.    Serve  piled  up  on  a  napkin. 

Artichokes  (Stewed)  —  Mince  a  couple  of 
shallots  and  fry  them  in  plenty  of  butter;  put  in 
the  artichokes  parboiled  and  cut  into  pieces, 
moisten  with  a  little  stock,  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  lemon  juice;  lastly  add  some 
finely-chopped  parsley,  and  let  the  whole  stew 
gently  till  quite  done.  A  small  quantity  of  Par- 
mesan cheese  may  be  added. 

Artichokes,  au  Gratiii  —  Wash,  peel  and  boil 

them  whole;  cut  them  in  slices  the  thickness  of  a 
cent.  Butter  a  dish  previously  rubbed  with  a 
shallot;  arrange  the  slices  on  it,  strew  over  them 
some  baked  bread-crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper, 
salt  and  a  little  powdered  thyme,  add  a  squeeze 
of  lemon,  put  a  few  pieces  of  butter  on  the  top, 
and  bake  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

Pumpkin  (Stewed)  —  Halve,  remove  the  seed, 
pare  and  slice  neatly.  Soak  for  an  hour  in  cold 
■v^ater;  then  place  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water 
on  the  fire.  Allow  it  to  stew  gently  until  it  falls 
to  pieces.  Stir  often.  Then  take  it  out,  drain, 
squeeze,  and  rub  through  a  colander,  then  put  it 
back  in  the  saucepan,  adding  two  dessertspoon- 
fuls of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir 
quickly,  and  when  nearly  boiling  dish,  adding 
more  pepper  if  required. 

Pumpkin  (Baked)  —  Cut  the  pumpkin  into 
quarters;  remove  seeds,  cut  into  slices  length- 
wise about  half  an  inch  thick.  Place  in  a  baking- 


118  WJiite  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

dish  suitable  for  the  purpose  and  arrange  in 
layers  about  three  slices  deep.  Put  a  very  little 
water  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish  and  bake  very 
slowly  until  done  (the  watei  must  have  evapor- 
ated). It  takes  a  long  time  to  bake.  Butter  the 
slices  on  both  sides  and  dish. 


SALADS. 

ANY  cold  vegetable  can  be  made  into  salad. 
I  wonder  that  any  one  eats  asparagus 
hot,  it  is  so  good  cold.  Scrape  it  thor- 
oughly, boil  till  soft  (about  thirty -five  minutes), 
lay  away  carefully  till  cold,  then  make  French 
or  mayonnaise  dressing  and  pour  over. 

In  making  tomato  salad  scald  the  tomatoes 
first,  then  plunge  in  cold  water,  and  the  skins 
will  come  off  easily.  Set  on  the  ice  till  cold, 
slice  with  a  sharp  knife,  set  the  slices  back 
upon  each  other  so  that  each  tomato  shall  re- 
tain its  shape. 

Avoid  breaking  the  lettuce  leaves,  and  see 
that  they  are  perfectly  drained.  Arrange  the 
lettuce  prettily  in  a  glass  dish,  and  set  the  veg- 
etable that  accompanies  it  in  the  center.  Never 
add  the  dressing  till  it  comes  to  the  table. 

Sliced  bananas  or  oranges  with  lettuce  and 
mayonnaise  dressing  are  delicious.  The  former 
are,  however,  a  trifle  rich  for  any  one  whose 
digestion  is  only  moderately  reliable. 

In  making  cucumber  salad,  if  the  cucumbers 
are  quite  young,  cut  up  one  with  the  rind  on. 
The  peculiar  slight  bitter  taste  is  very  welcome 
to  the  palate  of  an  epicure.  Cucumbers  should 
always  lie  in  very  salt  ice  water  for  a  while  to 
make  them  crisp  and  should  not  be  seasoned 
until  the  last  minute.  Flabby  cucumbers  are 
as  mean  as  cold  batter-cakes. 

Lettuce  Salad  (1) — Take  4  or  5  heads  of  cab- 
bage lettuce,  remove  all  outside  leaves  and  cut 
off  the  stalks  close;  then  cut  each  head  apart  into 
4  or  5  "quarters,"  that  is,  cut  through  the  stalk 
and    then   tear   the  rest.    Put  4  tablespoonfuls 

119 


120  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

olive  oil  into  the  salad  bowl,  with  2}^  table- 
spoonfuls  tarragon  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt  ac- 
cording to  taste,  and  beat  the  mixture  with  a 
fork  some  minutes;  then  put  in  the  lettuce  and 
keep  it  turning  over  swiftly  for  5  minutes,  adding 
a  small  pinch  of  mint,  chopped  as  finely  as  pos- 
sible. 

Lettuce  Salad  (2) — Wash  2  heads  lettuce,  dry 
them  thoroughly  and  break  the  leaves  or  cut 
them  into  convenient  pieces.  Put  the  yolks  of 
2  hard-boiled  eggs  into  a  basin  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  French  mustard,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  oil;  work  the  mixture 
into  a  smooth  paste,  and  add  consecutively  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  oil,l  of  tarragon  and  1  of  plain 
vinegar;  then  a  little  chervil,  garden  cress  and 
tarragon  finely  chopped.  Stir  the  mixture  well, 
and  lastly  add  the  lettuce;  turn  it  or  work  it 
well.    Garnish  the  top  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Herring  Salad  —  Heat  through  by  turning  on 
the  stove  3  well-smoked  herring,  then  tear  off  the 
heads  and  pull  the  skin  away;  split,  take  out  the 
backbones,  and  cut  up  into  small  bits,  or  to  shred 
them  is  better.  Put  in  a  salad  bowl,  add  1  small 
chopped  onion,  2  hard-boiled  chopped  eggs,  and 
1  boiled  potato;  cut  fine  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley;  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  1  of  pepper,  3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar  and  2 
of  oil.  Mix  well,  and,  if  you  have  it,  decorate 
with  a  boiled  beet. 

Potato  Salad  -Slice  8  cold  boiled  potatoes;  dis- 
pose between  the  slices  1  silver-skinned  onion  cut 
quite  fine;  beat  together  3  parts  oil  and  1  part, 
more  or  less,  according  to  the  strength  of  it,  tar- 
ragon vinegar,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Pour  this  over  the  potatoes,  and  strew  over  all  a 
small  quantity  of  any  of  the  following :  Powdered 


Salads.  121 

sweet  herbs,  mint,  parsley,  chervil,  tarragon  or 
capers,  or  a  combination  of  them  all,  finely 
minced. 

Cold  Slaw — To  1  quart  cut  cabbage,  use  ^ 
cupful  cream  (either  sweet  or  sour),  2  table- 
spoonfuls  vinegar,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1 
tablespoonful  butter  and  a  little  pepper;  put  the 
vinegar  on  to  boil,  add  the  beaten  eggs  to  the 
cream  and  butter,  and  stir  these  into  the  boiling 
vinegar  till  the  butter  is  melted  and  the  whole 
mass  smooth  and  creamy;  add  the  pepper  and 
salt  and  pour,  while  hot,  over  the  cabbage;  when 
cold,  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Lobster  Salad — Clean  thoroughly  some  let- 
tuce, endives  and  beetroots,  cut  them  up  and 
mix  them  with  the  following  dressing:  4  table- 
spoonfuls  oil,  2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  1  tea- 
spoonful  made  mustard,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  3^ 
teaspoonful  anchovy  sauce,  and  cayenne  and 
salt.  Pick  out  from  the  shells  the  flesh  of  1  hen 
lobster,  cut  into  well-shaped  pieces,  put  ^  in 
the  salad  and  garnish  with  the  rest,  also  with  the 
whites  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  and 
the  yolks  mixed  with  the  coral  and  rubbed 
through  a  sieve. 

Sardine  Salad  —  Allow  3  sardines  for  each 
person;  bone  and  fillet  these,  carefully  removing 
all  the  skin,  and  set  them  aside  until  required. 
Boil  2  eggs  for  3  minutes;  shell  them  and  break 
them  up  in  your  salad  bowl  with  a  spoon;  mix 
with  them  a  teaspoonful  each  French  mustard 
and  essence  of  anchovies,  the  strained  oil  from 
the  tin  of  sardines  with  as  much  Lucca  oil  as 
will  make  3  tablespoonfuls  in  all;  add  Chile, 
shallot,  and  good  malt  vinegar  to  taste  (vinegar 
varies  so  much  in  acidity  that  it  is  difficult  to 
specify  the  exact  proportion).  Cut  up  some 
nice  crisp  lettuce,  and  mix  it  well  with  the  dress- 


122  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

ing,  but  only  just  before  it  is  to  be  served.  Put 
a  little  heap  of  mustard  and  cress  in  the  center 
of  the  salad,  with  a  whole  red  capsicum  upon  it. 
Arrange  the  sardines  round,  and  outside  these  a 
border  of  mustard  and  cress,  dotted  here  and 
there  with  thin  slices  of  red  capsicums. 

Cabbage  Salad — Chop  fine  1  firm  head  cab- 
bage, sprinkle  lightly  in  a  dish.  Make  the 
dressing  as  follows:  Stir  together  2  raw  eggs,  1 
teaspoonful  white  pepper,  1  teaspoonf ul  mustard, 
a  little  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter  and  1 
cupful  strong  vinegar.  Put  this  mixture  in  a 
small  vessel  set  inside  of  another  full  of  boiling 
water  and  stir  5  minutes;  set  aside  to  cool,  then 
beat  in  3^  cup  cream,  pour  over  the  cabbage  and 
serve. 

Tomato  Salad — Peel  some  good-sized  toma- 
toes, not  over-ripe,  cut  them  in  slices  and  remove 
the  pips,  lay  them  in  a  dish  with  oil  and  vinegar 
in  the  proportion  of  2  to  1,  sprinkle  pepper  and 
salt  over  them  according  to  taste,  a  few  leaves 
basil  finely  minced,  and  some  onions  very  finely 
sliced.  They  should  lie  in  the  sauce  for  a  couple 
of  hours  before  serving. 

Egg"  Salad — Boil  3^  dozen  eggs  until  hard, 
shell  them  and  cut  them  into  slices  and  pour 
over  them,  while  hot,  the  following  dressing: 
Put  in  a  soup  plate  3^  teaspoonful  salt  and  }^ 
teaspoonful  black  pepper,  add  3  tablespoonfuls 
olive  oil  and  stir  until  the  salt  is  dissolved.  Stir 
in  1  tablespoonful  tarragon  vinegar,  1  table- 
spoonful  onion  juice  and  1  tablespoonful  chop- 
ped parsley.  Stand  away  in  a  cold  place  for  2 
hours,  and  serve. 

Chicken  Salad  —  Draw,  singe  and  boil  the 
chicken.  When  done  and  perfectly  cold  remove 
the  skin  and  cut  the  meat  into  dice.  If  you  want 
it  very  nice,  use  only  the  white  meat;  save  the 


Salads.  123 

dark  for  croquettes.  After  you  have  cut  it  set  it 
away  in  a  cold  place  until  wanted.  Wash  and 
cut  the  white  parts  of  celery  into  pieces  about  a 
half  inch  long,  throw  them  into  a  bowl  of  cold 
water  and  also  set  them  away  until  wanted.  To 
every  pint  of  chicken  allow  two-thirds  of  a  pint 
of  celery  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  mayonnaise 
dressing.  When  ready  to  serve,  dry  the  celery  and 
mix  with  the  chicken;  dust  lightly  with  salt,  white 
pepper  or  cayenne,  then  mix  with  it  the  mayon- 
naise. Serve  on  a  cold  dish  garnished  with  white 
celery  tips.  One  cup  of  white  cream  may  be 
added  to  every  3^  pint  of  mayonnaise  when  ready 
to  use  it.  It  makes  the  dressing  lighter,  with  less 
of  the  oily  flavor. 

Celery  Salad  —  Two  heads  of  celery,  1  table- 
spoonful  salad  oil,  %  teacup  vinegar,  a  tea- 
spoonful  granulated  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste. 

Well  wash  the  celery,  removing  any  unsightly 
parts,  lay  in  iced  water  until  wanted;  then  cut 
into  pieces  about  an  inch  in  length.  Season  with 
remaining  ingredients,  mix  well  and  serve  in 
salad  bowl. 

Red  Cabbage  Salad — One  small  red  cabbage, 
1  small  dessertspoonful  salt,  ^4  pint  vinegar,  1}^ 
dessertspoonfuls  oil.  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 

Secure  a  nice  fresh  cabbage,  remove  the  outer 
leaves  and  cut  the  cabbage  into  nice  thin  slices, 
then  mix  in  the  above  ingredients  and  allow 
to  stand  for  two  days,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 
This  salad  will  keep  good  for  several  days. 

Rev.  Sidney  Smith's  Recipe  for  Salad 
Dressing. 

"  Two    boiled     potatoes,    strained     through    a 
kitchen  sieve. 
Softness  and  smoothness  to  the  salad  give; 
Of  mordant  mustard  take  a  single  spoon  — 


124  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  too  soon, 
Yet  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  taste,  a  fault 
To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt; 
Four  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown, 
And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town; 
True  taste  requires  it,  and  your  poet  begs 
The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well  boiled  eggs. 
Let  onions'  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 
And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole; 
And,  lastly,  in  the  flavored  compound  toss 
A  magic  spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce. 
Oh!  great  and  glorious,  and  herbaceous  treat, 
'T would  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat; 
Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  weary  soul, 
And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl." 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing*  —  Put  3^  pint  of 
milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when  it  boils  stir  in 
2  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch  moistened  with  a 
little  cold  water.  Stir  until  it  boils  and  thickens, 
then  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten;  stir  a 
minute  longer,  take  it  from  the  fire  and  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  stir  in  by  degrees  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 
Stand  it  aside  to  get  cold,  and  it  is  ready  to  use. 

French  Dressing — Half  teaspoonful  salt,  the 
same  of  pepper,  mixed  with  1  tablespoonful 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice;  add  3  tablespoonfuls 
oil;  heat  together  briskly  and  pour  over  the 
salad;  before  putting  on  the  different  plates  toss 
and  turn  the  salad  so  that  it  may  mix  well. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing— The  yolks  of  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  sugar  and 
salt,  1^  teaspoonful  pepper  and  1}4  teaspoonfuls 
mustard;  mix  well.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point 
1  cupful  vinegar  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  pigeon's  egg;  while  this  is  heating  beat  to  a 
stiff  froth  ^'^e  whites  of  the  2  eggs  and  mix  with 


Salads.  125 

the  other  ingredients,  beating  well;  then  add  the 
boiling  vinegar,  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  Set  on 
the  fire  2  or  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  beat 
a  few  minutes  after  removing  it  from  the  fire, 
and  set  away  to  cool. 


PIGKIeES. 

gNAMELED  kettles  should  always  be 
used  in  preference  to  those  of  brass  or 
copper,  as  the  verdigris  produced  by  the 
vinegar  on  these  metals  is  extremely  poisonous. 
For  some  pickles  use  cold  vinegar,  as  in  boil- 
ing most  of  the  strength  is  lost  by  evaporation. 
For  French  beans,  broccoli,  cauliflower,  gher- 
kins, etc.,  it  is  better  to  heat  the  vinegar,  for 
which  the  following  process  is  recommended: 
Put  the  vinegar  and  spice  in  a  jar,  cover  it 
tightly,  let  it  simmer  on  the  back  of  the  stove. 
Shake  occasionally.  Pickles  should  never  be 
put  into  glazed  jars,  as  salt  and  vinegar  pene- 
trate the  glaze  and  produce  a  poison. 

Glass  or  stone  jars  are  preferable  to  any 
other;  a  small  piece  of  alum  in  each  jar  will 
make  the  pickles  firm  and  crisp.  One  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  vinegar  will 
be  found  a  very  great  improvement  to  all 
pickles.  Always  use  the  very  best  cider  vine- 
gar. 

Pickled  Onions — In  the  month  of  September, 
choose  the  small,  white,  round  onions,  take  off 
the  brown  skin,  have  ready  a  very  nice  tin  ste^^- 
pan  of  boiling  water,  throw  in  as  many  onions 
as  will  cover  the  top ;  as  soon  as  they  look  clear 
on  the  outside,  take  them  up  as  quick  as  possible 
with  a  slice,  and  lay  them  on  a  clean  cloth,  cover 
them  close  with  another,  and  scald  some  more, 
and  so  on.  Let  them  lie  to  be  cold,  then  put 
them  in  a  jar,  or  glass,  or  wide-mouthed  bottles, 
and  pour  over  them  the  best  vinegar,  just  hot 
but  not  boiling.  To  each  gallon  of  vinegar  add 
1  oz.  allspice   and  1  oz.  black   pepper.    When 

126 


Pickles.  127 

cold,  cover  them.     Should  the  outer  skin  shrivel, 
peel  it  off.     They  must  look  quite  clear. 

Pickled  Walnuts — Fifty  walnuts  (seasonable 
for  pickling  early  in  July).  To  each  pint  of  vin- 
egar allow  1  oz.  black  pepper,  ^  oz,  allspice,  and 
'^2  OZ.  bruised  ginger. 

Prick  the  walnuts  with  a  fork,'  and  put  them  in 
a  brine  (composed  of  1  lb.  salt  to  each  quart  of 
water).  Let  them  remain  in  this  9  days,  chang- 
ing the  brine  three  times.  Put  them  in  the  sun 
until  they  turn  black;  put  them  into  jars,  allow- 
ing sufficient  room  to  cover  them  with  vinegar; 
boil  (or  scald)  vinegar  and  spices  in  the  above 
proportions.  Cover  closely  and  keep  dry.  They 
can  be  used  in  6  weeks. 

Juiul)0  Pickle — Chop  fine  a  head  of  cabbage, 
sprinkle  with  salt;  let  it  remain  thus  for  12  hours: 
then  mix  1  onion  finely  minced  with  the  cab- 
bage; drain  through  a  colander;  add  a  good 
quantity  of  pepper  and  celery  seed.  Put  it  in  a 
jar  and  cover  with  vinegar.  Ready  for  use  in  3 
days. 

Red  Cabbage  —  Slice  into  a  colander,  and 
sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt;  let  it  drain  2  days, 
then  put  it  into  a  jar,  and  pour  hot  vinegar 
enough  to  cover,  and  put  in  a  few  slices  of  red 
beetroot.  Observe  to  choose  the  purple  red  cab- 
bage. Those  who  like  the  flavor  of  spice  will 
boil  it  with  the  vinegar.  Cauliflower  cut  in 
branches,  and  thrown  in  after  being  salted,  will 
look  a  beautiful  red. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles  —  One  peck  green 
tomatoes;  1  dozen  large  white  onions,  sliced 
crosswise  to  fall  into  rings;  1  oz.  whole  pepper, 
1  oz.  white  mustard  seed,  1  oz.  cloves,  1  oz.  all- 
spice. Put  a  layer  of  tomatoes  and  onions,  then 
a  good  handful  of  salt,  etc.,  till  all  are  in  a  stone 
jar;  then  put  a  plate  on  top  and  weight  down 


128  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

over  night;  in  morning  squeeze  out  with  hand 
and  put  to  boil  in  kettle,  putting  in  layers  with 
spice;  add  1  gal.  best  malt  vinegar,  and  boil  20 
minutes.     Put  in  stone  jar  to  keep. 

Damson  and  Cherry  Pickles  —  To  5  pounds 
fruit  put  3  pounds  sugar,  1  qt.  vinegar,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  or  2  oz.  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful 
cloves,  as  much  mace.  Put  the  fruit  in  a  jar. 
Boil  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices,  and  pour 
them  boiling  hot  on  the  fruit.  Tie  the  spices 
loosely  in  muslin  before  boiling. 

Ripe  Peaches  Pickle  —  Pare  them  and  drop 
them  in  vinegar  that  has  been  boiled,  with  1  tea- 
cup sugar  to  1  qt.  vinegar,  and  12  cloves,  a 
teaspoon  of  whole  allspice  and  three  large 
sticks  of  cinnamon.  Always  tie  spice  in  cheese 
cloth  or  muslin  loosely  before  boiling. 

Picalilli  —  Small  cucumbers,  button  onions, 
small  bunches  of  cauliflower,  carrots,  ginger, 
grapes,  strips  of  horse-radish,  radishes,  bean 
pods,  cayenne  pods,  4  qts.  best  vinegar,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  salt,  mustard  and  flour,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  ground  ginger,  pepper,  allspice  and  turmeric. 

The  brine  for  this  pickle  is  made  by  putting  a 
pint  of  rock  salt  into  a  pail  of  boiling  water. 
Put  the  vegetables  for  pickling  into  the  brine 
and  cover  tightly  to  prevent  the  steam  escaping. 
Allow  them  to  stand  a  night  and  a  day.  Change 
the  brine  a  second  time  and  allow  them  to  remain 
the  same  length  of  time.  The  second  brine  may 
be  used  a  second  time  if  skimmed  and  scalded. 
Choose  pickles  from  the  brine  of  an  equal  size 
and  of  various  colors.  Great  taste  may  be  dis- 
played in  the  arrangement  of  the  pickles  when 
putting  them  in  bottles.  To  4  qts.  of  best  vin- 
egar add  the  spices.  Simmer  these  together  (the 
mustard  and  turmeric  must  be  blended  together 
with  a  little  vinegar  before  they  are  added  to  the 


Pickles.                                129  ] 

liquor) ;  when  the  liquor  is  on  the  point  of  boil-  j 

ing,  pour  into  a  vessel;    cover  tightly.      When  ; 

sufficiently  cold  pour  into  the  bottles  containing  3 

the  pickle,  and  make  air-tight.    It  will  be  ready  i 

for  use  in  5  or  6  months.  'l 

Beets  —  Vinegar,  beets,  2  oz.  whole  pepper,  2  ] 

oz.  allspice  to  every  gallon  of  vinegar.  1 

Carefully  remove  all  dirt  from  the  beets.     Let 

them  simmer  in  boiling  water  for  1'^  hours,  then  ; 

take   them   out    and    leave   to   cool.      Boil   the  | 

remaining   ingredients  for    10   or    15    minutes  * 

and  leave  to  cool.     When  cold  pour  it  over  the  , 

beets  (which  you  have  previously  pared  and  cut  ; 
into  thin  slices).    Make  air-tight  and  they  will 

be  ready  for  eating  in  a  week  or  10  days.  '\ 


§GG§. 


ABOUT  one-third  of  the  entire  weight  of  an 
egg  may  be  regarded  as  nitrogenous  and 
nutritious  matter;  a  greater  proportion 
than  that  of  meat,  which  is  rated  at  only  from 
25  to  28  per  cent.  The  Hghtest  way  of  cooking 
eggs  is  by  poaching.  The  yolk  of  an  egg  alone 
is  better  for  invalids  and  will  be  frequently  rel- 
ished when  the  white  would  be  rejected.  When 
cream  cannot  be  procured  for  coffee  the  yolk  of 
a  soft-boiled  egg  is  a  very  good  substitute.  To 
prevent  the  juice  of  fruit  pies  from  soaking  into 
the  bottom  crust  wash  the  crust  over  with  beaten 
egg  before  putting  in  the  fruit.  When  making 
frosting  in  warm  weather,  set  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  on  ice  a  short  time  before  using.  If  the 
eggs  you  have  to  use  for  frosting  are  not  quite 
as  fresh  as  you  could  desire,  a  pinch  of  salt  will 
make  them  beat  stiffer.  The  white  of  an  egg, 
an  equal  quantity  of  cold  water  and  con- 
fectioners' sugar  sufficient  to  make  the 
required  consistency,  make  a  nice  frosting 
which,  as  it  requires  no  beating,  is  very 
easily  made.  When  beaten  eggs  are  to  be 
mixed  with  hot  milk,  as  in  making  gravies  or 
custards,  dip  the  hot  milk  into  the  beaten  eggs 
a  spoonful  at  a  time,  stirring  well  each  time 
until  the  eggs  are  well  thinned,  then  add  both 
together.  This  will  prevent  the  eggs  from 
curdling. 

The  whites  or  yolks  of  eggs  which  are  left 
after  making  cake,  etc.,  will  keep  well  for  a  day 
or  two  if  set  in  a  cool  place — the  yolks  well 
beaten  and  the  whites  unbeaten.  Whites  or 
yolks  of  eggs  may  be  used  with  whole  eggs 

130 


^ggs.  131 

in  any  cake  or  other  recipe  calling  for  eggs, 
counting  two  yolks  or  two  whites  as  one  egg. 
When  eggs  are  cheap  and  plentiful  in  summer, 
wash  all  those  used  in  cooking  before  breaking, 
save  the  shells,  and  when  a  quantity  are  dry, 
crush  them  fine;  beat  half  a  dozen  eggs  well 
and  stir  them  into  the  shells.  Spread  them 
where  they  will  dry  quickly,  and  when  thor- 
oughly dry,  put  in  a  tJiin  cotton  bag  and  hang 
in  a  dry  place.  In  the  winter,  when  eggs  are 
dear,  a  tablespoonful  of  this  mixture  put  in  a 
cup,  a  little  cold  water  poured  over  it  and  left 
to  stand  over  night,  or  for  half  an  hour  or  so  in 
the  morning  before  breakfast,  will  answer  every 
purpose  of  a  whole  egg  in  settling  coffee. 

It  is  a  good  plan  in  testing  eggs  to  apply 
the  tongne  to  the  large  end  of  the  egg,  and  if 
perfectly  fresh  the  egg  will  feel  warm,  or  they 
can  be  held  to  the  light  and  if  perfectly  clear 
will  be  good;  or  try  them  in  water — the  freshest 
will  sink  first.  Always  keep  them  in  a  cool 
place. 

Poached  E^gs  (on  Toast)— If  the  eggs  are 
not  new-laid  they  will  not  poach  well.  Fill  a 
shallow  saucepan  with  water  and  salt,  add  a 
little  vinegar,  a  few  peppercorns,  and  some 
leaves  of  parsley.  When  the  water  is  on  the 
point  of  boiling  (it  should  never  be  allowed  to 
boil)  break  2  or  more  eggs  into  it  (according  to 
the  size  of  the  pan) ;  when  done,  take  them  out 
carefully,  lay  them  on  slices  of  hot  buttered 
toast,  and  serve. 

Poached  Eggs  (on  Ham  Toast)— Make  some 
buttered  toast,  cut  in  pieces  of  uniform  shape, 


132  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

spread  over  them  a  small  quantity  of  grated 
ham,  put  a  poached  egg  on  each  piece  of  toast, 
and  serve  hot. 

Poached  Eggs  and  Minced  Chicken— Free 

some  remnants  of  fowl  from  skin,  etc.,  mince 
them  with  an  eqnal  quantity  of  ham  or  tongue, 
as  well  as  a  small  quantity  of  truffles  or  mush- 
rooms, all  finely  minced;  toss  the  whole  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter 
mixed  with  a  pinch  of  flour,  add  white  pepper, 
salt  and  powdered  spices  to  taste,  and  moisten 
with  a  little  white  stock;  lastly,  stir  in,  off  the 
fire,  the  yolk  of  1  egg  beaten  up  with  the  jaice 
of  }/2  lenion,  and  strained;  serve  within  a  border 
of  bread  sippets  fried  in  butter,  and  dispose  the 
poached  eggs  on  the  top. 

Stuffed  Eggs — Cut  some  hard-boiled  eggs  in 
half,  mince  the  yolks  with  a  few  olives  and 
capers,  some  anchovies  thoroughly  washed,  a  few 
truffle  trimmings,  and  a  little  tarragon,  add  some 
pepper,  and  fill  each  half  egg  with  this  mixture. 
Pour  some  liquefied  butter  over,  and  warm  them 
in  the  oven.  Then  place  each  half-egg  on  a 
round  sippet  of  bread  fried  in  butter  to  a  light 
yellow  color,  and  serve. 

Buttered  Eggs — Break  4  eggs  into  a  basin, 
and  beat  them  well;  put  2  oz.  butter  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  cream  into  a  saucepan;  add  a  little 
grated  tongue,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  when 
quite  hot,  add  the  eggs,  stir  till  nearly  set,  then 
spread  the  mixture  on  pieces  of  buttered  toast 
and  serve. 

Fried  Eggs  —  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a 
email  frying-pan,  break  2  eggs  in  it  carefully  so 
as  not  to  break  the  yolks;  when  nearly  set,  slip 
them  out  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  butter  over  them, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 


Eggs.  133 

Fried  Eggs  with  Tomatoes  —  Melt  a  small 
piece  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  put  to  it  a  small 
quantity  of  French  tomato  sauce,  add  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  and  when  quite  hot  turn  it 
out  on  a  dish,  disposing  on  it  the  eggs  fried  in 
butter. 

Scrambled  Eggs  —  Beat  up  4  eggs,  with  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste;  put  1  oz.  butter  into  a 
saucepan;  directly  it  is  melted  put  in  the  eggs, 
and  keep  constantly  stirring  with  a  spoon  until 
they  are  nearly  set,  adding  at  the  last  a  little 
finely-minced  parsley. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Asparagus  —  Parboil 

some  asparagus  points,  cut  the  size  of  peas,  in 
salted  water,  drain  them  and  toss  them  in  a  little 
butter  till  quite  hot.  Scramble  some  eggs  as  in 
the  preceding  recipe,  and,  when  nearly  set,  add 
the  asparagns  points  instead  of  the  parsley. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Tomatoes  —  Beat  up 
4  eggs  with  a  tablespoonful  of  French  tomato 
sauce,  or  one  large  tomato,  peeled,  freed  from 
pips,  and  chopped  small,  and  proceed  as  above. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Onions — Chop  coarsely 
2  slices  of  Spanish  onion;  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  plenty  of  butter,  and  when  they  are 
thoroughly  cooked,  without  having  taken  any 
color,  throw  in  4  eggs  beaten  together  with  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste;  keep  on  stirring  till  the  eggs 
are  nearly  set,  and  then  serve. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Fish— Pick  out  the 

meat  of  any  remnants  of  fish,  such  as  salmon, 
turbot,  cod,  haddock  or  whiting,  and  with  a 
silver  fork  break  it  up  small;  take  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  this  and  4  eggs;  beat  the  whole  together 
with  a  little  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  little 
parsley  finely  minced;  then  proceed  as  in  first 
recipe. 


134  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Scramlbled   Eggs  with   Ham  —  Beat  up  a 

tablespoonful  of  grated  ham  with  4  eggs,  and 
pepper  to  taste;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  piece  of  butter,  and  stir  till  nearly  set. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Cheese — Put  4  eggs 
and  3  tablospoonfuls  of  Parmesan  cheese  into 
a  basin  with  a  sprinkling  of  pepper;  beat  all 
together,  and  proceed  as  in  the  first  recipe, 
omitting  the  parsley. 

Scrambled  Eggs  (on  Toast)  — Any  of  the 

foregoing  may  be  served  on  slices  of  buttered 
toast,  but  if  so  served  they  must  be  even  less  set, 
at  the  time  of  serving,  than  when  served  plain; 
or  neat  bread  sippets,  fried  in  butter,  may  be 
served  round  them. 

Sippets  (Fried)  —  Cut  out  of  a  loaf  slices 
from  3^  to  %  in.  thick,  shape  them  into  triangles 
or  arrowheads,  all  of  a  size;  put  some  butter  in 
a  frying-pan,  and  when  quite  hot  lay  the  sippets 
in  it;  turn  them  frequently,  adding  more  butter 
as  it  is  wanted,  and  taking  care  that  they  are  all 
fried  to  the  same  golden  color.  A  readier  way, 
but  producing  not  so  nice  a  sippet,  is  to  lay  the 
pieces  of  bread  in  the  frying-basket,  and  dip  it 
in  a  saucepan  full  of  boiling  fat.  They  must 
afterwards  be  laid  in  front  of  the  fire  to  drain. 

Omelet  (Plaiu)  —  Beat  up  3  or  4  eggs  with  1 
dessertspoonful  of  parsley  very  finely  minced, 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  put  a  piece  of  but- 
ter, the  size  of  an  egg,  into  a  frying-pan;  as  soon 
as  it  is  melted  pour  in  the  omelet  mixture,  and, 
holding  the  handle  of  the  pan  with  one  hand, 
stir  the  omelet  with  the  other  by  means  of  a 
spoon.  The  moment  it  begins  to  set  cease  stir- 
ring, but  keep  on  shaking  the  pan  for  a  minute 
or  so;  then  with  the  spoon  double  up  the  omelet 
and  keep  shaking  the  pan  until  the  under  side  of 


Eggs.  135 

the  omelet  has  become  of  a  golden  color.    Turn 
it  out  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

Omelet — One-half  cupful  sweet  milk,  1  of  fine 
bread  crumbs,  2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately,  ^  teaspoonful  chopped  sage  or  a 
whole  one  of  parsley;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Mix  well,  adding  the  white  of  egg  last;  melt  a 
lump  of  butter  in  a  large  frying-pan,  pour  in 
your  mixture,  and,  taking  a  silver  knife,  gently 
lift  it  away  from  the  sides  as  the  eg^  "  sets." 
Then  put  in  the  oven  until  it  browns  on  top,  fold 
over  and  serve  on  a  hot  plate. 

Omelet  —  The  following  makes  a  delicious 
omelet  for  four  persons:  Break  5  eggs,  putting 
the  whites  in  one  dish  and  the  yolks  in  another. 
Beat  the  yolks  to  a  froth,  then  add  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  a  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  5  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream.  Beat  all  together  for  a  moment 
and  then  add  the  whites,  previously  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Mix  gently  together  and  pour  imme- 
diately into  a  hot  spider  containing  a  level 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Cook  rather 
slowly  in  order  not  to  burn  the  bottom  before 
the  omelet  is  cooked  through,  and  when  nicely 
browned  fold  half  over.  Place  on  a  warm  plat- 
ter, and  serve  immediately. 

Omelet  (Savory)  —  Beat  up  3  or  4  eggs  with 
3^  shallot  very  finely  minced,  some  parsley 
similarly  treated,  and  a  very  small  pinch  of  pow- 
dered sweet  herbs;  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste; 
then  proceed  as  above. 

Omelet  (Cheese)  —  Beat  up  3  eggs  with  1  or 
2  tablespoonfuls  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Cook 
as  above,  and  serve  with  some  more  grated 
cheese  strewn  over  the  omelet. 

Omelet  (Tomato)  —  Equal  parts  of  sliced 
onions  and  tomatoes  peeled  and  freed  from  pips; 


136  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

chop  them  both  coarsely.  Fry  the  onions  in 
butter.  When  cooked,  without  being  colored,  add 
►the  tomatoes,  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  keep 
stirring  the  mixture  on  the  fire  till  it  forms  a 
sort  of  puree.  Make  a  plain  omelet,  and  insert 
this  in  the  fold  on  dishing  it. 

Omelet  (Mushroom) — Parboil  a  small  quan- 
tity of  button  mushrooms,  slice  them  small,  and 
stew  them  just  long  enough  to  cook  them  in  a 
small  quantity  ^  either  white  or  brown  sauce 
(see  Sauces) ;   then  use  as  in  preceding  recipe. 

Omelet  (Fish)  —  Beat  up  3  eggs  with  a  quan- 
tity equal  in  bulk  to  1  egg  of  the  remnants  of 
any  cold  fish  (salmon  or  turbot)  finely  shredded 
with  a  fork,  a  pinch  of  minced  parsley,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste. 

Omelet  (Oysters)— See  "Oysters." 


(sATSUPS,  gT6. 

Lemon  Catsup  —  One  doz.  lemons,  %  break- 
fast cupful  white  niustard  seed,  1  e^gcupful 
turmeric  and  white  pepper,  Yi  eggcupful  cloves 
and  mace,  3^  a  small  teacupful  white  sugar,  1 
saltspoonful  cayenne,  3^  a  small  teacupful  horse- 
radish, 3^  a  small  teacupful  salt,  4  shallots. 

Finely  grate  the  rind  of  lemons,  pound  the 
spices  in  a  mortar,  grate  the  horse-radish. 
Thoroughly  blend  these  ingredients,  then  sprinkle 
the  salt  over  all,  extract  the  juice  from  the 
lemons  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Allow  to  stand 
in  a  cool  place  for  3  or  4  hours.  Boil  in  an  en- 
ameled kettle  30  minutes,  pour  into  a  stone  jar, 
cover  tightly.  Stir  every  day  for  14  days,  then 
strain,  bottle  and  seal. 

Tomato  Catsup  (1) — To  1  peck  tomatoes  allow 
1  tablespoonful  salt,  mace,  black  pepper,  cloves 
powdered,  and  1  of  celery  seed;  a  teaspoonful 
cayenne,  Y  ^b.  tin  of  mustard. 

Make  a  small  incision  in  each  tomato,  put  into 
an  enameled  saucepan,  and  boil  until  perfectly 
soft,  and  the  pulp  dissolved;  work  through  a 
colander,  then  through  a  hair  sieve.  Place  upon 
the  stove,  adding  the  remaining  ingredients  (the 
celery  seed  must  be  confined  in  a  muslin  bag), 
and  boil  6  hours.  Stir  occasionally  for  the  first 
5  hours,  and  all  the  last  hour.  Pour  into  a  stone 
jar;  allow  to  stand  from  12  to  14  hours  in  a  cold 
place.  When  perfectly  cool  add  a  pint  of  strong 
vinegar,  remove  the  celery  seed,  bottle,  cork,  and 
seal.     Keep  in  a  dry,  dark  place. 

Tomato  Catsup  (2) — Ripe  tomatoes;  to  every 
lb.  of  juice  add  a  pint  of  vinegar,  a  dessertspoon- 
ful sliced  garlic,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
white  pepper. 

Place  a  number  of  ripe  tomatoes  in  a  jar; 
cover   and  bake  till   tender.     Strain   and  work 

137 


138  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

through  a  sieve,  and  add  the  above  ingredients. 
Pour  into  a  stewpan  and  boil  until  the  ingre- 
dients are  perfectly  soft.  Work  through  the 
sieve  a  second  time,  and  to  every  pound  squeeze 
the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Boil' again  until  of 
the  thickness  of  cream.  Set  aside  to  get  cold. 
Bottle,  cork  and  seal,  and  keep  in  a  dry,  dark 
place. 

Walnut  Catsup  —  Wash  the  shells  of  walnuts,, 
bruise  them  slightly,  put  them  with  salt  in  a 
stone  jar  for  two  or  three  weeks  until  they  fer- 
ment, then  boil  them  up,  strain  off  the  liquor, 
add  to  every  2  quarts  1  oz.  each  of  allspice, 
ginger,  black  pepper,  cloves  and  mace;  boil  the 
whole  1  hour;  let  it  cool,  bottle  it,  and  tie  a  blad- 
der over  the  corks. 

French  Mustard  —  One  quart  of  brown  mus- 
tard seed,  1  handful  each  of  parsley,  chervil,  tar- 
ragon and  burnet,  1  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed, 
cloves,  mace,  garlic,  salt  to  taste,  enough  vinegar 
to  cover. 

Put  the  whole  into  a  basin  with  enough  vinegar 
to  cover  the  mixture.  Let  it  steep  24  hours, 
then  pound  it  in  a  marble  mortar.  When  thor- 
oughly pounded  pass  it  through  a  fine  sieve;  add 
enough  vinegar  to  make  the  mustard  of  the  de- 
sired consistency,  and  put  into  jars  for  use. 

Mint  Vineg'ar  —  A  wide-mouthed  bottle  or 
bottles.  Fill  them  (loosely)  with  nice,  fresh  mint 
leaves,  then  add  good  vinegar  to  fill  the  bottle  or 
bottles;  cork  well.  Allow  to  stand  for  two  or 
three  weeks,  and  at  the  expiration  of  this  time 
strain  into  fresh  bottles  and  cork  securely.  Use- 
ful when  mint  is  not  in  season. 

Herbs  (to  Dry) — Gather  the  herbs  for  drying 
before  they  begin  to  flower.  Free  from  dirt  and 
dust  and  tie  in  bunches,  having  previously  re- 
moved the  roots.     Dry  in  the  oven  or  before  the 


Catsups,  Etc.  139 

fire;  in  either  case,  dry  quickly,  as  the  flavor  is 
better  preserved  by  quick  drying.  Upon  no  con- 
sideration allow  them  to  burn.  Tie  up  in  paper 
bags  and  hang  in  a  dry  place.  N.  B. — Take  care 
to  gather  the  herbs  on  a  dry  day. 

Herb  Powder  (for  winter  use)— Take  2  oz. 
each  of  winter  savory,  sweet  marjoram,  lemon, 
thyme,  lemon  peel  and  4  oz.  of  parsley. 

Thoroughly  dry  the  herbs  and  take  off  the 
leaves.  Grind  to  a  powder  and  pass  through  a 
sieve.  Dry  the  lemon  peel  and  pound  as  finely 
as  possible,  then  mix  all  together  thoroughly. 
Keep  in  glass  bottles  tightly  corked. 

Parsley  (to  keep  for  winter  use) — Take  fresh 
bunches  of  parsley;  plunge  into  boiling  water 
slightly  salted,  boiling  for  3  or  4  minutes.  Re- 
move from  the  water,  and  drain  dry  very  quickly 
before  the  fire,  and  put  in  bottles  for  use.  Soak 
in  tepid  water  5  minutes  when  required  for 
cooking. 

Garlic  Vinegar — Steep  an  ounce  of  garlic  in 
2  quarts  of  the  best  white  vinegar;  add  a  nutmeg 
scraped.  This  vinegar  is  much  esteemed  by  the 
French. 

A  Useful  Catsup — One  and  one-half  pints 
mushroom  catsup,  3^  pint  walnut  pickle,  2 
tablespoonfuls  Chile  vinegar,  2  shallots. 

Take  13^  pints  of  freshly-made  mushroom 
catsup,  peel  the  shallots  and  add  them  to  the 
catsup  and  allow  it  to  simmer  for  10  minutes, 
then  add  the  pickle  and  vinegar  and  boil  again 
for  10  minutes.  Stand  in  a  cool  place,  and  when 
perfectly  cold,  bottle,  and,  having  placed  a  small 
piece  of  shallot  in  each  bottle,  cork  and  set  by 
for  use. 


FORGBMBATS. 

WHETHER  in  the  form  of  stuffing-balls 
or  for  patties,  forcemeat  makes  a  con- 
siderable part  of  good  cooking,  by  the 
flavor  it  imparts  to  the  dish  it  accompanies,  and 
considerable  care  should  be  taken  in  preparing 
it.  It  is  often  the  case,  at  many  excellent  tables 
where  everything  else  is  well  done,  to  find  very 
bad  forcemeat  or  stuffing. 

Forcemeat  (for  Fowls) — Quarter  lb.  suet,  2 
oz.  ham,  the  grated  rind  of  )^  lemon,  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  minced  parsley,  1  tablespoonful  of 
minced  sweet  herbs,  cayenne,  salt,  grounded 
mace  to  taste,  7  oz.  bread-crumbs,  2  eggs. 

Cut  the  ham  into  small,  thin  strips,  chop  the 
suet  finely,  also  the  lemon  peel;  add  the  season- 
ing, then  the  crumbs;  thoroughly  blend,  and  after 
the  eggs  have  been  well  beaten  add  to  the  other 
ingredients,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  If  wished, 
for  balls,  fry  a  golden  brown  in  hot  lard. 

Forcemeat  (Balls  for  Soup)— Eight  oz. 
bread-crumbs,  sweet  herbs,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  5  eggs. 

Have  the  bread-crumbs  finely  grated,  and  the 
herbs  pounded  to  a  powder;  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  salt;  boil  2  eggs  hard  and  mince  finely. 
Mix  all  together  and  bind  the  whole  with  the  re- 
maining eggs.  Form  into  little  balls,  and  drop 
into  the  soup  about  5  or  6  minutes  before 
serving. 

Oyster  Forcemeat  (for  Roast  or  Boiled  Tur- 
key)—  Two  teacupfuls  bread-crumbs,  3^  oz. 
minced  suet,  1  tablespoonful  savory  herbs  a 
sprinkle  of  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  2 
eggs,  1^4,  doz.  oysters. 

Have  the  bread-crumbs  and  suet  finely  mificed, 
add  the  herbs  chopped  as  finely  as  possible;  mix 

140 


Forcemeats.  141 

well.  Having  opened  the  oysters,  beard  and 
chop  them  (not  very  small)  and  add  to  the  other 
ingredients;  beat  up  the  eggs,  and  with  the  hand 
work  all  together  thoroughly;  it  is  then  ready 
for  use. 

Sage  and  Onion  Stuffing  (for  Pork,  Ducks, 
Geese)  —  Two  teacups  bread-crumbs,  4  large 
onions,  12  sage  leaves,  butter  the  size  of  an  &gg, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  1  egg. 

Peel  and  boil  the  onions  for  5  or  6  minutes, 
dip  the  sage  leaves  in  the  same  water  (while 
boiling)  for  a  minute  or  two,  then  chop  finely;  add 
seasoning,  the  bread-crumbs  and  butter;  beat  up 
the  egg,  and  work  all  together.  It  is  then  ready 
for  use 

Quenelles — Moisten  1  cup  of  finely-crumbed 
bread  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  as  much  finely- 
chopped  meat  (stewed  veal  or  fowl,  cold)  as  you 
wish,  work  in  1  well-beaten  egg,  and  season  all 
thoroughly  with  salt  and  pepper;  flour  your 
hands,  and  shape  mass  into  round  balls,  rolling 
them  into  flour  when  shaped.  Bring  to  a  boiling 
heat  in  a  saucepan  1  large  cup  well-seasoned 
gravy,  drop  in  the  balls,  and  boil  fast  for  about 
5  minutes.  The  gravy  can  be  thickened  and 
poured  over  them,  or  they  can  be  rolled  in  flour 
or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fried  in  lard  or  butter. 


BREAD  AND  (sAKBS. 

OF  all  articles  of  food,  bread  is  perhaps  the 
most  important ;  therefore  it  is  necessary 
to  be  well  acquainted  with  the  quality  of 
the  ingredients  and  the  art  of  making  it. 
Flour  ought  to  be  a  few  weeks  old  before  being 
used,  and  care  must  be  taken  to  keep  it  per- 
fectly dry.  It  is  of  the  utmost  imjDortance  to 
purchase  only  the  best  quality  of  tlour,  for  it  is 
the  truest  economy.  Patent  flour  should  be 
more  scantily  measured  than  winter  wheat,  as  it 
contains  more  gluten.  Do  not  place  the  sponge 
or  dough  too  near  the  fire,  as  some  cooks  are 
liable  to  do  in  cold  weather,  or  the  quality  of 
bread  will  be  endangered.  The  proper  heat 
should  be  gentle  and  equal  for  fermentation. 
Care  must  also  be  taken  to  mix  and  knead 
(brisk  and  long  kneading  will  fully  repay  for 
the  trouble)  when  it  has  reached  the  point  for 
either.  Bread  requires  a  brisk  oven,  and  should 
take  about  1  to  1^  hours  to  bake.  The  cook 
must  be  guided  by  experience  as  to  the  exact 
degree  of  heat. 

The  secret  of  biscuit-making  is  precision 
and  dispatch.  Laggards  and  lazy  people  are 
not  successful  biscuit-makers.  The  best  cooks 
always  say  they  simply  throw  their  biscuits  to- 
gether, and  certainly  they  are  not  long  about 
it.  The  cause  of  success  is  that  biscuits  begin 
to  bake  before  the  effervescent  qualities  of  the 
powder  or  soda  are  exhausted. 

For  good  cake  (  as  in  bread )  it  is  of  great  im- 
portance to  use  no  ingredients  but  those  of  the 
finest  quality.  The  flour  must  be  dry  and 
sifted.     It  will  be  found  a   good  plan,  after 

142 


Bread  and  Cakes.  143 

purchasing  currants,  to  wash  in  three  waters, 
pick  and  dry  in  a  cloth.  Then  look  them  care- 
fully over,  discarding  any  stone,  stalk  or  grit. 
Lay  before  the  fire  or  in  the  sun  to  dry.  Put 
by  in  a  jar,  and  they  will  always  be  ready  for 
use.  Eggs  should  be  well  whisked,  the  whites 
and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  strained.  But- 
ter must  not  be  allowed  to  oil.  Lemon  peel 
should  be  cut  thinly  as  possible.  Sugar  should 
be  finely  powdered.  When  soda  is  used  it  is  a 
good  plan  to  dissolve  it  in  warm  water.  When 
all  the  ingredients  are  mixed,  vigorous  and 
patient  beating  will  greatly  add  to  the  lightness 
of  the  cake.  The  heat  of  the  oven  is  of  great 
importance  for  cakes,  especially  those  that  are 
large.  If  the  oven  is  not  very  quick,  the  batter 
will  not  rise.  Should  you  fear  scorching,  put 
some  paper  over  the  cake.  If  the  fire  is  not 
long  enough  lighted  to  have  a  body  of  heat,  or 
if  it  has  become  slack,  the  cake  will  be  heavy. 
To  know  when  the  cake  is  done,  take  a  broom 
straw  and  pierce  into  the  very  center,  draw  it 
instantly  out,  and  if  the  least  stickiness  adheres, 
put  the  cake  back  immediately  and  shut  the 
oven. 

Fine  sugar  should  be  used  in  cake-making 
to  give  good  texture.  Cake  pans  with  movable 
bottoms  are  more  easily  managed,  for  they  may 
be  placed  on  a  teacup  and  the  rim  will  fall  off. 
The  milk  in  cake-making  should  be  added 
slowly.     Butter  the  tins,  then  flour  them. 

Yeast  (1)  —A  double  handful  of  hops,  ^  doz. 
potatoes,  %  gal.  water,  1  or  ^  cupful  ginger, 
small  cup  flour,  a  cup  brown  sugar,  )^  cup  salt,  a 
cupful  good  yeast. 


144  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Allow  the  hops  and  potatoes  to  boil  together 
in  }/2  gallon  of  water  till  done;  strain  and 
mash  the  ginger,  then  add  remaining  ingre- 
dients, excepting  the  yeast.  Let  stand  until  cool, 
then  add  the  yeast.    Next  day  cork  up  tight  in  a 

Yeast  (2)  —  Two  oz.  hops,  1  gal.  water,  a 
handful  salt,  1  lb.  best  flour,  3  lbs.  potatoes. 

Boil  the  hops  in  a  gallon  of  water  for  3^ 
hour;  strain  it,  and  let  it  cool  down  to  the  heat 
of  new  milk;  then  put  the  salt  and  moist  sugar; 
beat  the  flour  with  some  of  the  liquor,  and  then 
mix  all  together.  Two  days  after,  add  the  pota- 
toes, boiled  and  then  mashed,  to  stand  for  24 
hours;  then  put  into  bottles,  and  it  will  be  ready 
for  use.  Stir  it  frequently  while  making,  and 
keep  it  warm.  Before  using,  shake  the  bottle  up 
well.  It  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  two 
months. 

To  Make  Baking-Powder  —  Take  %  lb.  of 
ground  rice,  3^  lb.  carbonate  of  soda,  2  oz.  tar- 
taric acid.  Mix  them  very  thoroughly  and 
smoothly.     Allow  1  teaspoonful  to  1  lb.  of  flour. 

Anotheb  Way — Mix  well  together  6  oz.  car- 
bonate of  soda,  4  oz.  tartaric  acid,  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  powdered  sugar. 

Home-Made  Bread  (l)  —  Four  lbs.  flour,  1 
tablespoonful  solid  brewers'  yeast,  1)^  pints 
lukewarm  milk  and  water,  salt. 

Put  the  flour  into  a  deep  pan,  sprinkle  a  little 
salt  into  it,  hollow  out  the  middle  with  a  wooden 
spoon  (taking  care  to  leave  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  well  covered  with  flour).  Next  take  the 
yeast,  which  has  been  made  solid  by  liberally 
mixing  with  cold  water,  and  allowing  it  to  settle 
24  hours.  Then  proceed  to  pour  the  yeast  into 
the  hole  in  the  flour,  and  mix  with  it  as  much 
flour  as  is  round  about  it  until  it  is  of  the  con- 


Bread  and  Cakes.  146 

sistency  of  thick  batter;  be  careful  there  are  no 
lumps.  Sift  plenty  of  flour  over  the  top,  cover 
with  a  clean  cloth,  and  set  it  where  the  air  is 
warm  and  equal.  Allow  to  stand  an  hour  or  a 
little  longer,  and  if  the  yeast  has  broken  through 
it  is  then  ready  to  be  made  into  dough.  Pour 
into  the  sponge  the  remaining  milk  and  water. 
Mix  into  it  as  much  of  the  flour  as  you  can  with 
the  spoon.  Now  take  plenty  of  the  flour,  sprinkle 
on  the  top  of  the  leaven,  and  proceed  to  knead 
briskly,  and  when  perfectly  free  from  the  lumps 
and  it  does  not  adhere  to  the  hands,  it  may  be  cov- 
ered with  a  cloth  and  left  to  rise  a  second  time. 
When  it  begins  to  crack,  which  will  be  in  about 
%  of  an  hour,  it  can  be  formed  into  loaves  and 
baked.  In  forming  the  loaves  divide  in  two  and 
make  up  the  shape  and  size  required,  and  with 
a  sharp  knife  make  incisions  in  the  top  of  each 
loaf.  If  baked  in  tins,  take  care  to  grease  them 
before  using.  When  baked  stand  on  end  to  allow 
the  steam  to  evaporate.  The  dough  can  be 
made  without  making  a  sponge  (if  desired)  by 
mixing  the  yeast  with  the  best  part  of  the  milk 
and  water,  and  after  a  little  salt  ha^  been  added^ 
proceed  to  work  up  the  whole  of  the  flour  at 
once,  and  then  act  as  above.  The  dough  will 
soften  in  the  rising,  so  it  should  be  made  firm  at 
first. 

Home-Made  Bread  (2)  —  Put  the  flour  into  a 
large  pan;  mix  in  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt; 
make  a  hole  in  the  middle,  and  pour  in  the  yeast 
(half  a  teacup  of  yeast  to  two  quarts  of  flour), 
with  about  a  pint  of  water  or  milk  (which  use 
warm  in  winter,  and  cold  in  summer),  not  mixing 
in  all  the  flour;  then  put  a  blanket,  or  towel,  over 
the  pan,  and  let  it  stand  to  rise  near  the  fire,  in 
winter.  This  is  "  putting  bread  in  sponge." 
When  it  has  risen,  mix  all  the  flour  with  the 
sponge;  knead  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  2  hours 

10 


146  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

till  quite  light.  Then  mold  the  dough  on  a  board 
till  elastic,  and  put  the  loaves  into  greased  or 
floured  baking-tins;  prick  them  two  or  three 
times  through  with  a  fork;  let  them  rise  again 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  bake  them  in  a 
quick  oven. 

White  Bread  —  Sponge,  a  pan  of  buttermilk, 
or  sour  milk,  flour,  1  teacupful  of  yeast. 

For  the  sponge  take  a  pan  of  buttermilk  or 
sour  milk  which  has  just  turned  thick.  Put  it 
on  the  stove  and  scald.  When  the  curd  is  well 
separated  from  the  whey  strain  or  skim  it  out. 
Let  the  whey  cool  until  it  will  not  scald,  then 
stir  in  the  flour,  beating  thorougly.  It  should 
be  about  as  thick  as  batter  for  griddle  cake. 
Sweet  milk,  or  even  water,  may  be  used  as  a  wet- 
ting for  the  sponge,  if  good  sour  milk  or  butter- 
milk cannot  be  had.  But  fresh  buttermilk  is, 
perhaps,  the  best  of  all.  When  the  sponge  is 
about  milkwarm,  beat  in  a  teacupful  of  yeast. 
One  teacupful  of  the  yeast  is  enough  for  three 
ordinary  white  loaves,  one  loaf  of  brown  bread 
and  a  tin  of  rolls.  The  sponge  should  be  made 
at  night.  Let  it  stand  until  morning.  Unless 
the  weather  is  very  cold,  it  is  not  necessary  to 
put  it  near  the  fire.  In  the  morning,  when  the 
sponge  is  light,  take  out  enough  for  your  loaf  of 
brown  bread.  Mix  the  remainder  with  flour, 
taking  care  not  to  put  in  too  much,  as  that  will 
make  the  bread  dry  and  hard.  Knead  ^  an 
hour.  The  whiteness  and  delicacy  of  the  bread 
will  be  much  increased  by  thorough  kneading. 
Put  the  dough  away  to  rise  again.  When  it  is 
light,  if  you  wish  to  make  rolls,  save  enough  of 
the  dough  for  that  purpose.  Make  the  remain- 
der into  loaves.  Set  them  away  to  rise.  When 
light,  bake. 


Bread  and  Cakes.  147 

Fine  Wheat  Bread— For  4  loaves:  1  pint  wa- 
ter, 1  cake  compressed  yeast,  1  tablespoonful 
salt,  1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

Mix  hard  or  sitff,  as  for  baking,  at  first.  Set 
it  to  rise;  when  it  has  risen,  knead  it  again;  let 
rise  again.  If  mixed  in  the  morning  —  which  is 
the  best  when  using  compressed  yeast  —  after 
the  second  rising,  put  it  in  the  pans,  and  it  will 
be  ready  to  bake  in  the  afternoon.  Be  sure  and 
knead  it  when  it  first  rises,  and  then  let  it  rise 
again. 

Plain  Bread  —  Half  lb.  white  flour,  1  tea- 
spoonful  baking-powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  }^  pint 
milk  and  water. 

The  simplest  way  of  making  bread  in  small 
quantities  is  as  follows:  Take  3^  lb.  of  white 
flour,  and,  while  in  a  dry  state,  mix  in  thor- 
oughly a  small  teaspoonf  ul  baking-powder  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Then  add  about  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  milk  and  water,  or  water  alone;  knead  it 
as  quickly  as  possible,  and  put  immediately  into 
a  very  hot  oven;  the  whole  secret  of  making 
light  bread  after  this  fashion  lies  in  attention  to 
these  last  rules.  If  the  oven  is  well  heated,  it 
will  rise  almost  directly,  and  it  should  be  baked 
until  the  outside  is  quite  crisp  and  hard.  I  gener- 
ally knead  mine  into  the  desired  shape,  but  they 
can  be  baked  in  tins  if  preferred.  For  brown 
bread,  I  use  three  parts  of  brown  and  one  of  white 
flour,  and  a  little  extra  baking-powder;  also  add- 
ing a  little  more  water,  if  necessary,  to  mix  it. 

Rice  and  Wheat  Bread  — One  lb.  rice,  2 
quarts  water,  4  lbs.  flour,  4  large  spoonfuls  yeast, 
salt. 

Simmer  1  lb.  rice  in  2  quarts  water  till  it  be- 
comes perfectly  soft;  when  it  is  of  a  proper 
warmth,  mix  it  extremely  well  with  4  lbs.  flour, 
and  yeast  and  salt  as  for  other  bread;  of  yeast 


148  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

about  4  large  spoonfuls;  knead  it  extremely  wellj 
then  set  it  to  rise  before  the  fire.  Some  of  the 
flour  should  be  reserved  to  make  up  the  loaves. 
If  the  rice  should  require  more  water,  it  must  be 
added,  as  some  rice  swells  more  than  others. 

French  Bread  —  One-fourth  pk.  fine  flour, 
yolks  of  3  and  whites  of  2  eggs,  salt,  3^  pt.  good 
yeast,  3^  pt.  milk. 

With  ^  pk.  fine  flour  mix  the  yolks  of  3  and 
whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  and  strained,  a  little 
salt,  }/2  P*'  of  good  yeast,  that  is  not  bitter,  and 
as  much  milk,  made  a  little  warm,  as  will  work 
into  a  thin,  light  dough;  stir  it  about,  but  don't 
knead  it;  have  ready  3  wooden  quart  dishes, divide 
the  dough  among  them,  set  to  rise,  then  turn 
them  out  into  the  oven,  which  must  be  quick. 
Rasp  when  done. 

Sa^o  Scones  —  Take  a  teacupful  of  sago  and 
soak  in  cold  water,  put  it  on  with  1  qt.  sweet 
milk,  let  it  boil  till  quite  dissolved,  stirring  oc- 
casionally; add  a  little  salt,  then  pour  out  on 
the  baking-board  and  let  it  lie  till  cold.  Mix  up 
with  flour,  taking  care  not  to  make  it  too  stiff; 
roll  out  quite  thin,  cut  to  the  size  wanted,  and 
bake. 

Brown  Bread  —  One  pt.  com  meal,  1  pt.  rye 
flour,  1  tablespoonful  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  2  cf  baking-powder,  1  tablespoonful  lard,  ^ 
pt.  milk. 

Sift  together  the  above  ingredients,  excepting 
the  lard  and  milk;  rub  into  the  mixture  the  lard 
and  add  the  milk.  Mix  into  a  batter-like  cake 
and  bake  1  hour.  Protect  it  with  brown  paper 
if  it  should  brown  too  fast  at  first. 

Boston  Brown  Bread  —  One  and  one-half 
cups  yellow  cornmeal,  1  cup  rye  flour,  1  cup 
Graham  flour,  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  2  full 
teaspoonfuls  baking-powder  and  a  little  salt. 


Bread  and  Cakes.  149 

Mix  all  to  a  consistency  of  a  thick  batter  with 
either  milk  or  water,  pour  into  a  buttered  mold 
or  tin  pail,  and  steam  in  boiling  water  4  hours. 

Rye  Bread — Two  cups  Indian  meal,  scalding 
water,  a  small  cap  of  white  bread  sponge,  sugar, 
salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  rye. 

Make  the  Indian  meal  into  a  thick  batter 
with  scalding  water;  when  cool  add  the  white 
bread  sponge,  a  little  sugar  and  salt,  and 
the  soda,  dissolved.  In  this  stir  as  much  rye 
as  is  possible  with  a  spoon;  let  it  rise  until 
it  is  very  light;  then  work  in  with  your  hand 
as  much  rye  as  you  can,  but  do  not  knead 
it,  as  that  will  make  it  hard;  put  it  in  but- 
tered bread  tins,  and  let  it  rise  for  about  15  min- 
utes; then  bake  it  for  1^^  hours,  cooling  the  oven 
gradually  for  the  last  20  minutes. 

Corn  Bread — Take  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  corn- 
meal,  }4.  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
l}/£  cups  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking-powder; 
quick  oven. 

Corn  Bread  Steamed  —  Three  cups  cornmeal, 
boiling  water,  1  cup  flour,  2  cups  sour  milk,  1 
cup  molasses,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  a  little  salt. 

Scjald  2  cup's  cornmeal  with  boiling  water,  add 
another  cup  of  meal  and  remaining  ingredients. 
Mix  thoroughly,  and  steam  3  hours. 

Bread  Omelet — A  teacupful  bread-crumbs,  1 
teacupful  sweet  milk,  6  eggs,  pepper,  salt,  a 
small  lump  of  butter. 

Let  the  milk  come  to  the  boiling  point,  pour 
it  over  the  crumbs  and  let  it  stand  a  few  min- 
utes; take  the  eggs,  beat  them  well  and  pour  into 
the  bread  mixture;  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  a  small  lump  of  butter;  when  thoroughly 
mixed,  butter  a  hot  skillet  and  pour  the  mixture 
in,  letting  it  fry  slowly;  when  one  side  is  browned 
nicely,  cut  it  in  squares  and  turn.    Serve  at  once. 


150  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Barley  Scones — Take  l  quart  sweet  milk  and 
put  it  on  in  a  pan  with  a  little  salt.  When  it 
boils,  stir  in  barley-meal  until  it  is  as  thick  as 
porridge,  pour  out  on  the  baking-board  and  let 
it  stand  till  cold.  Knead  up  ??ith  barley-meal  to 
a  nice  soft  dough,  roll  out  and  cut  to  the  size 
wanted,  and  bake. 

Rusks — One  pint  new  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls 
yeast,  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  1  cupful 
sugar,  2  eggs,  2  saitspoonfuls  salt. 

Rusks  require  a  longer  time  for  rising  than 
ordinary  rolls  or  biscuits.  Prepare  a  sponge  of 
the  yeast,  milk  and  flour  (suflBcient  to  make  a 
thin  batter)  and  allow  it  to  rise  all  night.  Next 
morning  add  eggs,  butter  and  sugar  (which  must 
have  been  mixed  well  together),  salt  and  flour 
enough  to  produce  a  soft  dough.  Shape  into 
neat  balls  of  equal  size,  place  in  a  pan  and  allow 
to  rise  until  very  light.  Flavor  according  to 
taste.  Bake  in  a  quick,  steady  oven  till  of  a 
pretty  brown  color,  glaze  with  the  yolk  of  an 
egg  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  white  sugar. 

Butter  Rolls — One  quart  flour,  }4,  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  1  egg,  1 
pint  milk,  1  tablespoonful  lard. 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together, 
rub  in  the  lard  cold,  then  add  the  egg  and  milk; 
mix  as  soft  as  possible.  Roll  it  out  i^  inch  in 
thickness  and  cut  with  a  plain,  round  biscuit 
cutter.  Dip  them  in  melted  butter,  fold  }^  of 
each  piece  over  the  remainder  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  for  15  minutes. 

Tienna  Rolls — One  quart  milk,  }4  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  1  table- 
spoonful  lard,  1  pint  milk. 

Mix  into  a  dough  easily  to  be  handled  without 
sticking  to  the  hands;  turn  on  the  board  and 
roil  out  to  the  thickness  of  3^ 


Bread  and  Cakes.  161 

with  a  large  cake  cutter,  spread  very  lightly  with 
butter,  fold  one-half  over  the  other  and  lay  them 
in  a  greased  pan  without  touching.  Wash  them 
over  with  a  little  milk,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

French  Rolls  —  Two  eggs,  ^  pint  milk,  1 
tablespoonful  yeast,  1  oz.  butter. 

Beat  2  eggs  and  mix  with  them  3^  pint  milk 
and  a  tablespoonful  yeast;  knead  well  and  let 
stand  till  morning;  then  work  in  1  oz.  butter; 
mold  into  small  rolls,  and  bake  at  once. 

Cinnamon  Rolls  —  Save  a  piece  of  dough, 
about  enough  to  make  a  loaf,  out  of  your  bread 
before  you  make  it  out  for  baking.  To  this 
dough  add  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  3^  cup- 
ful milk,  1  cupful  sugar  and  1  tablespoonful 
cinnamon.  Work  thoroughly,  make  into  rolls 
and  set  to  rise.  When  almost  done  draw  to  the 
oven-door,  spread  lightly  with  butter  and  cover 
with  a  mixture  made  of  3  tablespoonfuls  butter 
and  1  tablespoonful  cinnamon.   Good  hot  or  cold. 

Parkin — One  and  three-fourths  lbs.  flour,  % 
lb.  oatmeal,  4  oz.  butter,  2  lbs.  molasses,  a  tea- 
cupful  milk,  6  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  1 
dessertspoonful  ground  ginger. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  well  together,  warm 
the  molasses  with  milk  (do  not  make  it  hot)  and 
mix  the  whole.  Bake  in  a  well-buttered  tin  for 
1  hour.  Cut  into  squares  before  taking  out  of 
the  tin.     It  should  be  13^  inches  thick. 

Breakfast  Rolls — Two  quarts  flour,  1  table- 
spoonful sugar,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  3^  cupful 
yeast,  1  pint  scalded  milk,  or  water  if  milk  is 
scarce,  and  a  little  salt. 

Set  to  rise  until  light;  then  knead  until  hard 
and  set  to  rise,  and  when  wanted  make  in  rolls; 
place  a  piece  of  butter  between  the  folds,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven. 


152  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Grraham  Biscuits — One  quart  water  or  milk, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
2  tablespoonfuls  baker's  yeast,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt;  enough  white  flour  to  use  up  the  water, 
making  it  the  consistency  of  batter  cakes,  and 
as  much  Graham  flour  as  can  be  stirred  in  with 
a  spoon. 

Set  it  away  till  morning;  in  the  morning  grease 
pan,  flour  hands;  take  a  lump  of  dough  the  size 
of  a  large  egg;  roll  lightly  between  the  palms; 
let  them  rise  20  minutes  and  bake  in  a  tolerably 
hot  oven. 

Sally  Lunn — Two  lbs.  flour,  ^  lb.  butter,  3 
eggs,  1  pint  milk,  )^  gill  yeast,  salt  according  to 
taste. 

Cut  up  the  butter  in  the  flour,  and  with  your 
hands  rub  it  well  together;  boat  the  eggs;  add 
them  gradually  to  the  flour  alternately  with  the 
milk;  stir  in  the  yeast  and  salt.  Bake  it  in  an 
earthen  mold,  or  iron  pan,  1  hour. 

Breakfast  Muffins — Three  eggs,  1  breakfast- 
cupful  milk,  1  tablespoonful  butter  melted,  1 
tablespoonful  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  heaped 
teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 

Whisk  the  eggs  and  mix  with  the  milk;  put 
the  melted  butter  into  a  basin  with  the  above 
ingredients,  mixing  in  flour  enough  to  make  a 
batter.  Bake  in  round  tins,  and  when  almost 
done  wash  the  top  of  each  with  a  feather  dipped 
in  milk. 

Graham  Muffins— One  quart  Graham  flour,  2 
teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 
3^  teaspoonful  salt,  milk  enough  to  make  a  bat- 
ter as  thick  as  for  griddle  cakes. 

Bake  in  muffin-rings,  about  20  minutes,  in  a 
quick  oven. 


Bread  and  Cakes.  153 

Rice  Muffins — Two  cups  cold  boiled  rice,  1 
pint  flour,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful 
sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  ^  pint 
milk,  3  eggs. 

Mix  into  a  smooth  and  rather  firm  batter,  and 
bake  as  above. 

Oatmeal  Muffins  —  One  cup  oatmeal,  1^ 
pints  flour,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls 
baking-powder,  1  pint  milk,  1  tablespoonful  lard, 
2  eggs. 

Mix  smoothly  into  a  batter  rather  thinner 
than  for  cup  cakes.  Fill  the  muffin-rings  %  full 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Crumpets  — Two  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt  and  sugar,  4  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder, 
1  qt.  milk,  3  pts.  flour. 

Mix  into  a  stiff  batter  and  bake  in  greased 
muffin  rings  on  a  hot  greased  griddle. 

Waffles — Two  eggs,  1  pt.  milk,  3^  oz.  butter, 
3^  gill  yeast,  salt  to  taste,  and  flour  enough  to 
form  a  thick  batter. 

Warm  the  milk  and  butter  together;  beat  the 
eggs,  and  add  them  by  turns  with  the  flour;  stir 
in  the  yeast  and  salt.  When  they  are  light,  heat 
your  waffle-irons  and  butter  them,  pour  in  some 
of  the  batter,  and  brown  them  on  both  sides; 
butter  them,  and  serve  them  with  or  without 
sugar  and  cinnamon. 

Waffles  (without  Yeast)— Three  eggs,  1  pt. 
milk,  1  teaspoonful  butter,  as  much  flour  as  will 
make  a  batter. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately;  melt  the 
butter,  and  while  lukewarm  stir  it  into  the  milk; 
whisk  the  yolks  very  light,  add  to  them  the  milk 
and  flour  alternately;  beat  it  well;  lastly  stir  in 
the  whites,  which  should  be  whisked  very  dry. 
The  batter  should  not  be  beaten  after  the  whites 
are  in.     Grease   your  waffle-irons  after  having 


154  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

heated  them;  fill  them  nearly  fnll  of  the  batter, 
close  them,  and  place  them  over  the  fire;  turn 
the  irons  so  as  to  bake  the  waflSe  on  both  sides. 
When  done,  take  it  out  and  butter  it.  These 
must  be  baked  the  moment  they  are  mixed. 

Rice  Waffles  — One  gill  rice,  3  gills  flour,  salt 
to  taste,  1  oz.  butter,  3  eggs,  as  much  milk  as 
will  make  it  a  thick  batter. 

Boil  the  rice  in  very  little  water  until  it  is  soft; 
drain  it  and  mash  it  fine.  Then  add  the  butter 
to  the  rice  whilst  it  is  warm;  whisk  the  eggs  very 
light,  the  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Add  the 
yolks  to  the  rice,  and  as  much  milk  as  will  form 
a  batter.  Beat  the  whole  very  hard,  then  stir 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  gently  into  the  mixture. 
Grease  your  waffle-irons,  and  bake  them.  If  the 
batter  should  be  too  thin,  add  a  little  more 
flour. 

Italian  Bread — Mix  1  pt.  each  of  milk  and 
water  and  bring  to  a  boil,  add  1  teaspoon  salt, 
and  sprinkle  m  gradually  1  pt.  meal  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour.  Cook  2  hours.  Pour  to  the 
depths  of  3^  inch  in  shallow  pans  to  cool;  when 
cold  cut  in  round  cakes;  put  in  overlapping  rows 
in  pan;  pour  melted  butter  over,  then  grated 
cheese;  brown  in  oven. 

Crackers  — One  pt.  flour,  1  dessertspoon  but- 
ter, a  pinch  of  salt  and  milk  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.     Beat  well,  stick  and  bake. 

Beaten  Biscuit —  One  qt.  flour,  2%  oz.  lard,  1 
teacup  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  the  greater 
part  of  the  flour  with  the  other  ingredients  and 
beat  15  minutes,  adding  the  rest  of  the  flour  by 
degrees.  They  require  a  steady  heat,  but  not 
too  hot  an  oven.  They  should  bake  }4,  hour, 
otherwise  they  will  be  heavy  and  dark  in  the 
middle. 


Bread  and  Cakes.  155 

Puff  Biscuit  — One  and  one-half  pts.  flour, 
3  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder  and  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  1  tablespoonful  lard,  1%  cups  milk.  Chop 
the  lard  through  the  flour;  sift  in  salt  and  add 
the  milk.  Roll  out  quickly,  touching  as  ittle 
as  possible.  Cut  in  rather  large  circles;  spread 
one-half  of  the  circle  with  butter,  then  fold  the 
other  over  it;  bake  15  minutes.  If  you  choose, 
you  can  sprinkle  sugar  on  the  top. 

Pop-Overs— Make  of  equal  proportions  (say 
2  cups)  milk  and  flour,  2  eggs,  a  little  salt  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg. 

Mix  the  salt  in  the  flour;  mix  well,  melt  the 
butter  and  add  to  other  ingredients;  the  last 
thing,  grease  and  half  fill  the  tins;  bake  quickly. 

Crullers  — Take  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  3  eggs  and  1  tablespoonful  butter;  beat  all 
together,  then  add  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon level  full  of  grated  nutmeg,  1  heaping  full 
of  cinnamon  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 
Now  mix  thoroughly  together  3  cupfuls  flour  and 
2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder;  sift  into 
the  bowl  containing  the  other  ingredients  and 
mix  them.  Add  enough  more  flour  to  give  them 
the  proper  consistency  for  rolling  out.  Fry  in 
hot  lard,  which  must  be  exactly  hot  enough  to 
insure  success.  If  too  hot  they  are  burned;  if 
not  hot  enough,  as  is  so  often  the  case,  your 
crullers  slowly  take  up  the  lard  and  come  out 
greasy  and  indigestible. 

Musk  Cakes— One  qt.  milk,  }^  pound  butter, 
flour  enough  to  make  a  dough,  salt  according  to 
taste,  Indian  meal  sufficient  to  thicken  the  milk, 
^  pint  of  yeast. 

Boil  the  milk,  and  stir  into  it  as  much  Indian 
meal,  mixed  with  cold  milk,  as  will  make  a  mush 
as  thick  as  batter;  add  the  butter  and  salt  while 
the  mush  is  hot;  as  soon  as  it  becomes  lukewarm 


156  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

stir  in  the  yeast  and  as  much  flour  as  will  form  a 
dough;  cover  it  and  stand  it  to  rise.  When 
light,  make  it  out  into  biscuits,  put  them  in  but- 
tered pans,  and  as  soon  as  they  rise  again,  bake 
them  in  a  hot  oven. 

Buckwheat  Cakes — One  pint  buckwheat  flour, 
1  qt.  water,  salt  according  to  taste,  1  gill  home- 
made yeast. 

Mix  the  water  (which  should  be  lukewarm  if 
the  weather  is  cold)  with  the  meal;  add  the  salt 
and  yeast;  beat  it  well;  when  light,  bake  them 
on  a  griddle.  Grease  the  griddle;  pour  on  a 
little  of  the  batter;  spread  it  so  as  to  form  a 
cake  about  the  size  of  a  breakfast-plate;  the 
cakes  should  be  very  smooth  at  the  edges.  When 
they  are  done  on  one  side,  turn  them;  when 
brown  on  both  sides,  put  some  butter  on  the 
plate,  put  the  cake  on  it,  butter  the  top,  bake 
another  and  put  on  it,  butter  hot,  and  send  them 
to  the  table.  Buckwheat  cakes  are  much  better 
if  they  are  sent  to  the  table  with  only  1  or  2  on 
the  plate. 

Eye  Batter  Cakes — One  pint  of  rye  meal, 
milk,  salt  according  to  taste,  1  gill  home-made 
yeast. 

Add  enough  lukewarm  milk  to  the  rye  to  make 
a  thin  batter,  with  salt;  beat  it  well,  then  add  the 
yeast;  when  they  are  light,  bake  them  on  a  grid- 
dle, as  buckwheat  cakes. 

Plain  Currant  Cake— Take  ^  lb.  flour,  2 
teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  }^  lb.  butter,  3^1  lb. 
sugar,  6  oz.  currants,  milk. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  the  other  in- 
gredients, and  mix  with  milk  into  a  moist  dough. 
Bake  in  a  well  greased  tin  for  about  40  minutes. 

Icing'  for  Cakes — Beat  up  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
with  ^  lb.  of  powdered  white  sugar  till  light; 
pour  it  over  the  cake,  smoothing  it  with  a  knife. 


Bread  and  Cakes.  167 

Set  the  cake  in  a  warm  place  till  the  sugar  be- 
comes hard. 

Sponge  Jelly  Cake— Three  eggs,  4  oz.  sugar, 
1  cup  flour,  1  dessertspoonful  baking-powder,  3 
tables poonfuls  boiling  water. 

Mix  the  baking-powder  with  the  flour,  and 
beat  each  of  the  eggs  separately.  Then  mix  all 
the  ingredients  together,  and  bake  in  jelly  tins 
in  a  brisk  oven.  When  cool,  chocolate  frosting 
put  between  the  cakes  makes  them  very  delici- 
ous, or  jelly  if  preferred. 

Jelly  Rolls— Three  eggs,  3^  cupful  butter,  13^ 
teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  f^  of  a  cup  of  pul- 
verized sugar,  1  cupful  flour,  a  little  salt. 

Bake  in  shallow  pans — a  dripping-pan  well 
buttered  is  good  for  this  purpose;  put  in  the 
dough  till  it  is  about  3^  inch  thick;  take  it  care- 
fully from  the  tins  when  baked  and  lay  on  a 
cloth;  spread  jelly  over  it  evenly  with  a  knife; 
roll  while  hot;  if  this  is  not  done  the  cake  will 
crumble. 

Sponge  Jelly  Cake  (Rolled)— Five  eggs,  1 
cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoonful  baking- 
powder. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the 
whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  then  the  flour,  in 
which  the  baking-powder  has  been  mixed.  Bake 
in  a  dripping-pan.  When  done,  turn  out  on  a 
cloth,  spread  jelly  on  the  bottom  of  the  cake, 
and  roll  from  the  side. 

Johnny  Cake — One  pt.  corn  meal,  1  teacupful 
sugar,  1  pt.  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  butter, 
salt  to  taste,  1  teaspoonful  dissolved  saleratus. 

Mix  the  butter  and  sugar  with  the  meal;  boil 
half  the  milk.  Add  the  dissolved  saleratus  and 
the  eggs,  after  they  have  been  well  beaten,  to 
the  remaining  half  of  the  cold  milk.  Pour  the 
boiling  milk  over  the  meal  and  let  it  cool.     Then 


158  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

add  the  cold  milk  and  saleratus.     Bake  in  a  shal- 
low pan. 

Icing  for  Cakes  (1) —Four  eggs,  1  lb.  finely 
powdered  white  sugar,  vanilla,  strawberry,  lemon, 
or  any  other  flavoring. 

Beat  well  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  adding  the 
sugar  to  stiffen  in  small  quantities;  continue 
until  you  have  beaten  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth; 
it  will  take  about  ^  an  hour  if  well  beaten  all 
the  time;  if  not  stiff  enough  then,  add  more 
sugar;  spread  carefully  on  the  cake  with  a 
broad-bladed  knife;  to  color  icing  yellow  put 
the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon  (or  orange)  into  a 
piece  of  muslin,  strain  a  little  juice  through  it 
and  press  hard  into  the  other  ingredients.  Straw- 
berry juice  or  cranberry  syrup  colors  a  pretty 
pink  color. 

Icing  for  Cakes  (2) — The  whites  of  2  eggs, 
3^  lb.  castor  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or 
a  few  drops  of  orange-flower  water. 

Beat  the  mixture  until  it  hangs  upon  the  fork 
in  flakes,  then  spread  over  the  cake,  dipping  the 
knife  in  cold  water  occasionally;  stand  it  before 
the  fire,  and  keep  turning  the  cake  constantly, 
or  the  sugar  will  catch  and  turn  brown.  As  soon 
as  it  begins  to  harden  it  may  be  removed.  The 
icing  must  not  be  put  on  until  the  cake  itself  is 
cold;  otherwise  it  will  not  set.  A  few  drops  of 
cochineal  will  color  it  if  desired. 

Lemon  Icing* — Squeeze  the  juice  of  2  lemons 
into  a  basin  with  3^  lb.  of  powdered  white  su^ar, 
and  beat  it  for  a  short  time.  If  wanted  pmk, 
add  cochineal. 

Egoless  Icing  —Take  1  cupful  confectioner's 
sugar  and  2  tablespoonfuls  water;  beat  thor- 
oughly and  spread  on  your  cake,  which  should 
be  ice-cold.     The  icing  will  whiten  when  it  has 


Bread  and  Cakes.  159 

stood  a  little  while.    You  may  color  it  with  pink 
sugar  or  chocolate  if  you  like. 

Excellent  Frosting* — Boil  together  1  cup 
granulated  sugar  and  4  tablespoonfuls  hot  water 
until  it  threads  from  the  spoon,  stirring  often. 
Beat  the  white  of  1  egg  until  firm;  when  the 
sugar  is  ready  set  it  from  the  stove  long  enough 
to  stop  boiling,  then  pour  onto  the  egg  slowly, 
but  continually,  beating  rapidly;  continue  to 
beat  until  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread 
on  the  cake,  and  flavor  while  beating.  It  hardens 
very  quickly  after  it  is  ready  to  put  on  the  cake, 
so  it  is  best  to  have  the  white  of  another  egg 
ready  to  add  a  little  if  it  gets  too  hard  to 
spread  smoothly.  Boil  the  sugar  the  same  as 
for  candy;  when  right  for  candy  it  is  right  for 
frosting;  if  at  last  it  hardens  very  rapidly  it  has 
been  boiled  too  hard,  but  a  little  white  of  egg 
will  rectify  it.  Or  if  not  boiled  enough  (that  is, 
if  it  remains  too  thin  after  beaten  until  cold) 
put  in  pulverized  sugar,  adding  a  little  and 
beating  hard;  then,  if  not  just  right,  a  little 
more,  and  beat  again  until  thick  enough. 

The  one  thing  is  to  have  the  sugar  boiled  just 
right;  if  you  hit  that  point  you  will  not  have  a 
bit  of  trouble;  if  not,  it  will  require  "doctor- 
ing." A  good  deal  depends  upon  stirring  the 
sugar  into  the  white  of  the  egg  at  first;  if  too 
fast  or  too  slow  it  will  cook  the  egg  in  lumps.  If 
you  should  not  get  it  just  right  at  first  do  not  be 
discouraged;  when  once  you  get  it  perfect  you 
will  never  make  it  any  other  way.  This  quantity 
is  for  one  cake. 

Almond  Icin^  —  Put  in  a  brass  or  copper  pan 
4  lbs.  moist  sugar,  with  1  pint  of  water.  Boil  8 
minutes,  draw  off  the  fire,  and  mix  2  lbs.  ground 
sweet  almonds,  stirring  till  thick,  then  pour  over 
the  cake  and  dry  slowly. 


160  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Chocolate  Icing' — One-qnarter  cake  chocolate, 
^  cup  sweet  milk,  2  dessertspoonfuls  corn  starch, 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Mix  together  the  chocolate,  milk  and  starch; 
boil  for  2  minutes,  flavor  with  the  vanilla,  and 
sweeten  with  powdered  white  sugar  to  taste. 

Plain  Fruit  Cake— One  lb.  flour,  3^  lb.  drip- 
ping, 2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  a  little  all- 
spice and  salt,  3^  lb.  currants,  3^  lb.  white  sugar, 
and  3^  pt.  milk. 

Mix  into  the  flour  the  baking  powder  and  salt, 
then  with  the  hands  rub  the  dripping  in  the 
flour  until  it  resembles  bread-crumbs.  Add  the 
currants,  allspice  and  sugar.  Take  care  that  the 
ingredients  are  well  mixed;  pour  in  the  milk  and 
mix  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Grease  a  quartern 
tin  and  pour  the  mixture  into  it;  bake  1  hour. 
To  insure  the  cake  being  done  stick  a  piece  of 
broom  straw  into  it.  This  answers  the  same 
purpose  as  a  knife  and  is  better,  as  the  knife  is 
apt  to  make  the  cake  heavy.  Turn  the  cake  on 
end  to  allow  the  steam  to  evaporate. 

Plain  Fruit  Cake  (2)— One  lb.  flour,  i^  lb. 
raisins,  4  oz.  dripping,  4  oz.  white  sugar,  1  tea- 
cup milk,  1  egg,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  a 
little  salt,  1  Oz.  lemon  peel. 

Add  to  the  flour  the  baking-powder  and  salt; 
rub  the  dripping  into  the  flour  with  your  hands. 
Take  care  it  is  well  incorporated.  Stone  the 
raisins,  grate  the  lemon  rind,  and  with  the  sugar 
add  to  the  other  ingredients.  Well  whisk  the 
egg,  and  mix  in  the  milk,  adding  to  the  mixture; 
thoroughly  mix.  Grease  a  cake  tin  and  bake  1 
hour.     Proceed  to  test  as  above. 

Economical  Fruit  Cake — Five  oz.  butter,  2 
lbs.  flour,  3^  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  currants,  1  gill  yeast, 
enough  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 


Bread  and  Cakes.  161 

Mix  the  flour,  leaving  out  }^  lb.,  with  the  but- 
ter cut  in  small  pieces,  the  sugar,  cinnamon  and 
fruit;  add  milk  enough  to  form  a  thick  batter, 
and  lastly  stir  in  the  yeast.  Mix  it  over  night, 
and  set  it  avs^ay  to  rise;  in  the  morning  stir  in 
the  remainder  of  the  flour,  and  let  it  rise;  when 
light,  mould  it  out  very  lightly;  butter  your  pan, 
and  bake  it  in  an  oven  about  as  hot  as  for 
bread. 

Plum  Cake — One  lb.  each  of  butter,  sugar  and 
flour,  10  eggs,  1  lb.  raisins,  }/£  lb.  each  of  cur- 
rants and  sliced  citron,  1  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves,  1  of  mace,  1  nutmeg,  the  juice  and  grated 
peel  of  1  lemon,  3^  coffeecup  of  molasses. 

Beat  the  butter  till  it  is  soft  and  creamy,  then 
add  the  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  and  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  separately;  stir  the  yolks  in  with  the 
butter  and  sugar;  stir  the  flour  in  gradually 
(having  first  mixed  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar  with  it).  When  the  flour  is  about 
half  worked  in,  put  in  ^  teaspoonful  soda  dis- 
solved in  as  little  water  as  is  possible  to  use; 
then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  lastly  the 
fruit,  which  is  well  covered  with  the  rest  of  the 
flour.  Bake  in  a  large  tin,  with  a  buttered  paper 
on  the  sides  as  well  as  on  the  bottom;  it  will  need 
to  bake  slowly  for  5  hours.  Then  do  not  attempt 
to  lift  it  from  the  tin  until  it  is  perfectly  cold. 
This  cake  should  be  made  several  days  before  it 
is  used. 

Delicious  Coffee  Cake  —  c5ift  i^  pints  of  flour 
with  2  teaspoonf  uls  of  baking-powder.  Cut  in  bits 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  mix  it 
through  the  flour.  Stir  in  a  cupful  of  syrup,  and 
mix  it  with  cold  coffee  to  the  consistency  of  soft 
dough.  Wor^^  into  the  dough  a  teaspoonful  of 
ground  cloves,  one  of  cinnamon  and  one  of  all- 
spice, also  half  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  and  half 

11 


162  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

a  pound  of  currants  well  floured.  Bake  in  oblong 
pans  in  moderate  oven  for  an  hour.  This  cake 
should  stand  about  two  days  before  cutting. 

Johnny  Cake  —  One  pint  of  flour,  1  pint  of 
corn  meal  (yellow  is  best),  1  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
2  large  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter.  Beat  thoroughly,  and  when 
ready  to  bake  add  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder.  Have  your  pans  well  greased 
and  warm,  and  bake  in  quick  oven  about  twenty- 
five  minutes. 

Cheese  Sticks  —  Mix  well  }{  cup  of  butter 
into  1  cup  of  flour,  add  1  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt  and  sugar;  mix  with  enough  water  to  make 
a  soft  dough  and  roll  out  very  thin.  Have  ready 
3^  cup  of  grated  cheese,  sprinkle  a  little  on  the 
dough  with  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper  and  roll 
out  again;  do  this  until  the  cheese  is  all  used  up, 
then  cut  it  into  strips,  lay  in  greased  pans  and 
bake  in  quick  oven. 

Aunt  Patty's  Eg^  Bread  —  Two  cups  white 
Indian  meal,  1  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  3  eggs  well 
beaten,  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  3  cups 
sweet  milk,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  pinch  of  soda. 
Stir  the  beaten  eggs  into  the  milk,  add  meal,  salt, 
butter,  last  of  all  the  rice.  Beat  well  a  few 
minutes,  and  bake  in  shallow  pan. 

Seed  Cake — Ten  oz.  flour,  2  oz.  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking-powder,  and  1  teaspoonful 
caraway  seeds,  1  egg,  3  oz.  butter,  a  little  salt, 
and  3^  glass  milk. 

Mix  the  baking-powder  and  salt  in  the  flour, 
rub  in  the  butter  also  (with  the  hands).  Add  the 
sugar  and  caraway  seeds,  taking  care  to  thor- 
oughly blend  them.  Well  whisk  the  egg  and  add 
the  milk  to  it;  add  to  the  other  ingredients  and 


Bread  and  Cakes.  163 

beat  well  for  about  10  minutes.  Grease  a  bak- 
ing-tin and  pour  the  mixture  in.  It  will  take 
about  1  hour  to  bake. 

Cookies — Take  4  cupfuls  flour,  2  cupfuls  sugar, 
^  cupful  butter,  ^  nutmeg,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  suffi- 
cient milk  to  make  dough  soft  enough  to  drop 
on  a  tin. 

Mix  the  flour,  butter,  sugar  and  spices  together, 
add  the  eggs,  dissolve  the  soda  and  tartar  in  the 
milk,  and  mix  the  whole  well  together.  Drop 
dessertspoonfuls  on  a  greased  baking-sheet  and 
bake  in  a  good  oven. 

Rice  Cake — Two  handfuls  rice,  a  little  less 
than  a  quart  of  milk,  sugar  to  taste,  rind  of  lemon 
cut  in  1  piece,  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon,  4  eggs, 
a  small  quantity  of  candied  citron. 

Pick  and  wash  in  2  or  3  waters  the  rice  and 
put  it  to  cook  in  the  milk,  sweeten  to  taste,  add 
the  lemon  rind  and  cinnamon.  Let  the  rice 
simmer  gently  until  it  is  tender  and  has  ab- 
sorbed all  the  milk.  Turn  it  into  a  basin  to 
cool,  and  remove  the  lemon  rind  and  cinnamon. 
Then  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of  4  and  the  white  of 
1  egg.  Add  a  little  candied  citron  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Butter  and  bread-crumb  a  plain  cake- 
mould,  put  the  mixture  into  it  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  3^  hour. 

Rice  Cakes — Eight  oz.  rice  flour,  4  oz.  white 
sugar,  4  oz.  butter,  3  eggs. 

Work  the  butter  to  a  creamy  substance,  add 
the  sugar  and  flour,  and  mix  in  the  well-whisked 
eggs.  Roll  upon  pastry-board  and  shape  into 
cakes  with  a  cake-cutter.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Indian  Loaf  Cake — One  lb.  Indian  meal,  ^ 
lb.  butter,  2  eggs,  }4  lb.  sugar,  ^  lb.  raisins,  3j 
lb.  currants. 


164  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Cut  up  the  butter  in  the  Indian  meal;  pour 
over  it  as  much  boiling  milk  as  will  make  a  thick 
batter;  beat  the  eggs  very  light;  when  the  batter 
is  cool  pour  them  into  it.  Seed  the  raisins; 
wash,  pick  and  dry  the  currants;  mix  them  with 
the  raisins,  and  dredge  as  much  wheat  flour  on 
them  as  will  adhere  to  them.  Stir  the  fruit  into 
the  batter,  and  add  the  sugar.  Bake  it  in  a 
moderate  oven  2  hours. 

Queen  Cakes — One  lb.  dried  flour,  1  lb.  sifted 
sugar,  1  lb.  washed  currants,  1  lb.  butter,  8  eggs. 

Mix  the  flour,  sugar  and  currants;  wash  the 
butter  in  rosewater,  beat  it  well,  then  mix  with 
it  the  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately, 
and  put  in  the  dry  ingredients  by  degrees;  beat 
the  whole  for  1  hour;  butter  little  tins  and  put 
the  mixture  in,  only  filling  half  full,  and  bake;  sift 
a  little  fine  sugar  over  just  as  you  put  into  the 
oven. 

Gringer  Cup  Cake  —  Two  cupfuls  butter,  2 
cupfuls  sugar,  1  cupful  molasses,  1  cupful  cream, 
3  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  dissolved  saleratus,  4 
heaping  cupfuls  flour,  3^  cupful  ginger. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  whisk 
the  eggs  light,  and  add  to  it;  then  stir  in  the 
other  ingredients.  Butter  a  pan  or  earthen 
mould,  and  pour  in  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven,  or  it  may  be  baked  in  queen-cake 
pans. 

Ginger  Nuts — Half  lb.  butter,  %  lb.  sugar,  1 
pint  molasses,  2  oz.  ginger,  2  tablespoonfuls  cin- 
namon, as  much  flour  as  will  form  a  dough,  3^ 
oz.  ground  cloves  and  allspice  mixed. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the 
spice,  ginger,  molasses,  and  flour  enough  to  form 
a  dough.  Knead  it  well,  make  it  out  in  small 
cakes,  bake  them  on  tins  in  a   very  moderate 


Bread  and  Cakes.  165 

oven.    Wash  them  over  with  molasses  and  water 
before  they  are  put  in  to  bake. 

Grinder  Bread— Half  lb.  moist  sugar,  2  oz. 
ground  ginger,  1  lb.  flour,  %  lb.  butter,  %  lb. 
molasses. 

Put  the  butter  and  molasses  into  a  jar  near  the 
fire;  when  the  butter  is  melted  mix  it  with  the 
flour  while  warm,  and  spread  the  mixture  thinly 
on  buttered  tins,  mark  it  in  squares  before  bak- 
ing, and  as  soon  as  baked  enough  separate  it  at 
the  marks  before  it  has  time  to  harden.  Time 
to  bake,  15  minutes. 

Honeycomb  Cringer  Bread— Half  lb.  flour, 
^  lb.  coarsest  brown  sugar,  }£  lb.  butter,  1  des- 
sertspoonful allspice,  2  dessertspoonfuls  ground 
ginger,  the  peel  of  %  lemon,  grated,  and  the  whole 
of  the  juice;  mix  all  these  ingredients  together, 
adding  about  %  lb.  molasses  so  as  to  make  a 
paste  sufficiently  thin  to  spread  upon  sheet  tins. 

Beat  well,  butter  the  tins,  and  spread  the  paste 
very  thinly  over  them,  bake  it  in  a  rather  slow 
oven,  and  watch  it  till  it  is  done;  withdraw  the 
tins,  cut  it  in  squares  with  a  knife  to  the  usual 
size  of  wafer  biscuits  (about  4  inches  square), 
and  roll  each  piece  round  the  fingers  as  it  is 
raised  from  the  tin. 

Drop  Ginger  Cakes -Put  in  a  bowl  1  cupful 
brown  sugar,  1  cupful  molasses,  1  cupful  butter, 
then  pour  over  them  1  cupful  boiling  water,  stir 
well;  add  1  egg,  well  beaten,  2  teaspoonfuls  soda, 
2  tablespoonfuls  each  of  ginger  and  cinnamon, 
^  teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  5  cupfuls  flour. 
Stir  all  together  and  drop  with  a  spoon  on  but- 
tered tins;  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  taking  care  not 
to  burn  them. 

Yorkshire  Tea  Cakes  —  Six  handfuls  flour,  1 
egg,  1  oz.  yeast,  a  piece  of  lard  about  the  size  of 
2  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  about  a  pint  of  new  milk. 


166  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Mix  the  yeast  with  a  little  sugar,  flour  and 
water.  Rub  the  lard  into  the  flour,  and  when 
the  yeast  has  risen  stir  it  in  with  a  little  warm 
milk.  Leave  it  to  rise  before  the  fire,  then  stir 
it  all  together  with  the  rest  of  the  milk  warmed, 
and  add  to  the  egg  beaten  up.  Knead  it  well 
together  and  leave  it  to  rise  before  the  fire,  but 
not  too  near;  cover  it  with  a  cloth.  When  risen 
enough,  knead  it  into  cakes,  let  them  stand  before 
the  fire  until  they  rise,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Currant  tea  cakes  are  made  by  adding  currants 
and  a  little  brown  sugar  to  the  dough. 

Metropolitan  Cake — Light  part:  2  cups  sugar, 
^  cup  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2}/^  cups  flour, 
whites  of  5  eggs,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 
Dark  part:  ^  cup  molasses,  %  cup  flour,  1  cup 
raisins,  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  3^  teaspoonfuL 
cloves,  2  large  spoonfuls  of  the  light  part. 

Bake  the  light  part  in  2  cakes.  Bake  the 
dark  part  in  1  cake  and  place  between  the  2 
light  cakes  with  jelly  or  frosting. 

Almond  Biscuits  —  One-quarter  lb.  almonds, 
3^  lb.  flour,  %  lb.  sugar,  34  lb.  butter,  a  very 
small  egg. 

Blanch  and  mince  the  almonds,  add  them  to 
the  flour  and  sugar,  moisten  with  the  Bgg,  and 
mix  with  the  butter,  previously  melted.  Roll  out 
rather  thin,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  for 
34  hour. 

Tirginia  Silver  Cake  —  Three-fourths  lb. 
butter;  1  lb.  white  sugar  (loaf  sugar  pounded 
and  sifted  is  the  best  here),  ^  lb.  flour,  34  lb. 
corn  starch,  whites  of  18  eggs,  1  teaspoonful 
cream  tartar.  Cream  the  butter,  then  sift  the 
flour,  corn  starch  and  cream  tartar  gradually 
into  the  butter;  add  last  of  all  the  beaten  whites; 


Bread  and  Cakes.  167 

flavor  with  almond.      This  cake  requires  mnch 
watching  in  baking,  and  a  slow  oven. 

Sponge  Cake — Five  eggs,  )4.  lb.  loaf  sugar, 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  ^  lb. 
ilour. 

Separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites.  Beat  the 
yolks  and  sugar  together  until  they  are  very 
light;  then  add  the  whites,  after  they  have  been 
whisked  to  a  dry  froth;  alternately  with  the  flour 
stir  in  the  lemon,  put  the  mixture  in  small  pans, 
sift  sugar  over  them  and  bake. 

Hickory  IVut  Cake  —  One  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls  sugar,  i^  cupful  butter,  a  scant  ^^  cupful 
sweet  milk,  2  cupfuls  flour,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls 
cream  tartar,  1  of  soda  or  3  teaspoonfuls  baking- 
powder. 

Bake  in  layers.  Filling  for  same:  1  cupful  sweet 
cream  or  milk;  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  then  stir  in 
1  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  which  has  prev- 
iously been  wet  with  cold  milk;  sweeten  to  taste; 
let  it  just  boil  up;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir 
in  1  pint  of  pulverized  hickory  nut  meats.  Flavor 
to  taste,  and  when  partially  cool  spread  between 
each  2  layers. 

Strawberry  Shortcake  —  Butter,  flour,  straw- 
"berries,  sugar,  whipped  cream. 

Make  a  rich,  short  crust  with  butter  and  flour, 
allowing  1  ounce  more  of  flour  than  butter;  bake 
in  flat  tins  of  equal  size  (the  pastry  when  baked 
should  be  about  an  inch  thick);  open  the  short- 
cake, butter  it  well,  and  cover  3^  with  a  layer 
of  strawberries  previously  mixed  with  sugar; 
have  alternate  layers  of  berries  and  pastry, 
finishing  with  the  former,  over  which  place  a 
layer  of  whipped  cream. 

Shortcake  (Spanish)  —  Three  eggs,  %  c^^P 
butter,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  a  little 


168  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

cinnamon,  2  cups  flour  and  1  teaspoonful  baking- 
powder. 

Stir  the  flour  in,  do  not  knead  it;  the  eggs, 
butter  and  sugar  should  be  beaten  together  till 
very  light;  bake  in  a  shallow  tin;  when  it  is  done 
spread  a  thin  frosting  over  the  top;  make  this  of 
the  white  of  1  egg,  a  little  pulverized  sugar  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  set  it  in  the  oven  to 
brown. 

Blackberry  Shortcake  —  Two  qts.  flour,  3 
tablespoonfuls  butter,  2  of  lard,  2^^  cups  butter- 
milk or  thick  sour  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  and  salt. 

Mix  the  salt  in  the  flour,  then  work  in  the 
shortening;  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs;  dissolve 
the  soda  in  a  little  hot  water  and  add  to  the  above 
proportion  of  milk;  add  these  to  the  first  mix- 
ture; quickly  make  into  a  paste,  roll  out  half 
an  inch  thick,  having  upper  and  under  crust. 
Lay  the  paste  in  a  well  greased  baking-tin,  cover 
thickly  with  berries,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cover 
with  the  top  crust.  Bake  about  half  an  hour; 
cut  into  squares  and  eat  (splitting  these  open) 
with  sugar  and  butter. 

Short-Cake  (Scotch)  —  Four  oz.  white  sugar, 
^  lb.  slightly  salted  butter,  1  lb.  flour. 

Mix  the  flour  and  butter  with  the  hands;  then 
add  the  sugar,  and  work  all  into  a  smooth  ball; 
then  roll  out  until  it  is  an  inch  thick;  prick  over 
with  a  fork  and  pinch  round  the  edges,  and 
bake  for  ^  hour  in  an  oven  with  a  moderate 
fire,  in  a  round  or  square  pan,  according  to 
taste. 

Chocolate  Cake  —  Half  lb.  butter,  yolks  of  12 
eggs,  3^  lb.  white  sugar,  same  of  ground  almonds, 
J^  lb.  chocolate,  2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  }4 
teaspoonful  pounded  cloves. 


Bread  and  Cakes.  169 

Melt  the  butter  and  stir  it  until  it  froths,  beat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  stir  into  the  butter; 
add  the  sugar  and  pounded  almonds,  grated 
chocolate,  cinnamon  and  pounded  cloves,  beat 
well  for  15  minutes;  then  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  froth,  and  add  these  to  the  above 
mixture;  butter  the  mould,  and  bake  the  above 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  1}^  hours. 

Almond  Macaroons  —  Blanch  and  skin  8  oz. 
of  Jordan  almonds  and  1  oz.  of  bitter  ones;  dry 
them  on  a  sieve,  and  pound  them  in  a  smooth 
paste  in  a  mortar,  adding  occasionally  a  very 
little  water,  to  prevent  them  from  getting  oily; 
add  to  them  5  oz.  pulverized  sugar,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  rice  flour,  and  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  in 
a  stiff  froth;  put  this  on  paper  in  drops  the  size 
of  walnuts,  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  they  are  of 
a  light  color  and  firmly  set;  take  them  from  the 
paper  by  wetting  the  under  side  of  it. 

Cocoannt  Macaroons  —  Stir  together  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  1  lb.  of  desiccated 
cocoanut  and  1  cupful  powdered  sugar.  Work  till 
it  becomes  a  soft  paste  and  drop  in  spoonfuls 
on  a  buttered  tin.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Silver  Cake  —  Three-fourths  lb.  sugar,  J/^  lb. 
flour,  }^  lb.  butter,  whites  of  8  eggs,  1  heaped 
teaspoonful  essence  of  bitter  almonds. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  whisk  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  add;  lastly  the  flour  and 
flavoring.  Flavor  icing  of  this  cake  with  rose- 
water. 

Cocoanut  Cake  —  Six  oz.  butter,  1  lb.  sugar, 
1  lb.  flour,  1  large  cupful  milk,  1  teaspoonful 
soda,  2  of  cream-of-tartar. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour;  add  the  sugar 
and  cream-of-tartar;  well  whisk  the  eggs;  dissolve 
the  soda  in  a  little  warm  water,  adding  these  to 


170  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

other  ingredients.  Bake  in  layers  as  for  jelly 
cake.  Icing  to  place  between  the  layers:  8  oz. 
white  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs.  Well  whisk  the 
eggs  and  sngar,  add  the  grated  cocoanut  and 
place  between  the  layers. 

Scotch  Snow  Cake  —  Seven  oz.  white  sugar, 
1  lb.  arrowroot,  ^  lb.  butter,  whites  of  7  eggs, 
any  flavoring  that  is  preferred. 

Beat  the  butter  until  like  cream,  and  while 
beating  add  gradually  the  arrowroot  and  sugar. 
When  the  whites  of  the  eggs  are  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  mix  with  the  other  ingredients  and  beat 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Flavor  to  taste,  pour 
into  buttered  mould  and  bake  for  1}^  hours. 

White  Bride  Cake  — Put  i  lb.  of  butter 
into  a  basin  and  beat  it  with  your  hand  till  it 
comes  to  a  fine  cream;  add  1}^  lbs.  pulverized 
sugar,  and  beat  together  until  it  is  fine  and  white: 
then  add  1  lb.  sifted  flour,  give  it  a  stir,  and  then 
add  the  whites  of  14  eggs;  continue  to  beat  it 
and  add  another  pound  of  flour  and  14  more 
whites;  beat  well;  mix  all  together,  paper  your 
dish  around  the  sides  and  bottom,  put  in  your 
batter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Shrewsbury  Cake  —  One  lb.  sugar,  pounded 
cinnamon,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  3  lbs.  flour,  a 
little  rosewater,  3  eggs,  melted  butter. 

Sift  the  sugar,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  into  the 
flour  (which  must  be  of  the  finest  kind);  add  the 
rosewater  to  the  eggs  and  mix  with  the  flour, 
etc.;  then  pour  in  enough  melted  butter  to  make 
it  a  good  thickness  and  roll  out.  Mould  well, 
roll  thinly,  and  cut  into  such  shapes  as  you  like. 

Marble  Spice  Cake — Three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  flour,  well  dried;  1  lb.  white  sugar,  }4, 
butter,  whites  of  14  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  cream 
tartar  mixed  with  flour. 


Bread  and  Cakes.  171 

When  the  cake  is  mixed,  take  out  about  a 
teacupful  of  batter  and  stir  into  it  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cinnamon,  1  of  mace,  1  of  cloves,  2  of 
spice  and  1  of  nutmeg.  Fill  your  mould  about 
an  inch  deep  with  the  white  batter,  and  drop  into 
this,  in  several  places,  a  spoonful  of  the  dark 
mixture;  then  put  in  another  layer  of  white,  and 
add  the  dark  as  before;  repeat  this  until  your 
batter  is  used  up.     This  makes  one  large  cake. 

Corn-Starch  Cake  —  Four  eggs,  whites  only; 
1  cup  butter,  %  cup  corn-starch,  i-^  cup  sweet 
milk,  1  cup  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder, 
lemon  or  rosewater  flavoring. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  either 
with  the  hand  or  a  silver  spoon;  mix  the  corn- 
starch with  the  milk  and  add;  then  add  the  eggs, 
beaten  stiff,  next  the  sifted  flour,  into  which  the 
baking-powder  has  been  stirred.  Put  into  well 
greased  mould  and  bake. 

Cracknels  —  One  qt.  flour,  i^  nutmeg,  4  eggs, 
4  spoonfuls  rosewater,  1  lb.  butter. 

Mix  the  flour,  the  nutmeg,  grated,  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  beaten,  and  the  rosewater,  into  a  stiff 
paste  with  cold  water;  then  roll  in  the  butter  and 
make  into  cracknel  shape;  put  them  into  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  till  they  swim; 
then  take  them  out,  and  put  them  into  cold 
water;  when  hardened,  lay  them  out  to  dry  and 
bake  on  tin  plates. 

Lemon  Biscuits  —  One  lb.  flour,  %  lb.  white 
sugar,  3€  lb*  fi^esh  butter,  1  oz.  lemon  peel,  1 
tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  3  eggs. 

Add  the  butter  to  the  flour  and  rub  finely  with 
the  hands;  mince  the  lemon  peel  and  stir  it  and 
the  sugar  into  the  former  mixture;  well  whisk 
the  eggs  and  lemon  juice,  and  thoroughly  mix 
the  whole.     Drop  from  a  spoon   to  a  greased 


172  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

baking-tin  about  2  inches  apart.  Bake  for  20 
minutes. 

Cocoanut  Biscuits  —  Six  oz.  cocoanut  grated, 
9  oz.  white  sugar,  3  eggs. 

Whisk  the  eggs  for  about  12  minutes,  then 
sprinkle  in  the  sugar  gradually,  lastly  the  cocoa- 
nut;  form  with  your  hands  into  little  pyramids; 
place  upon  white  paper,  and  the  paper  on  tins. 
Bake  in  a  cool  oven  until  slightly  brown. 

Rice  Biscuits  —  One-half  lb.  ground  rice,  5  oz. 
white  sugar,  4  oz.  butter,  2  eggs. 

Well  beat  the  butter;  stir  in  gradually  the 
ground  rice  and  sugar;  well  whisk  the  eggs  and 
add  to  the  other  ingredients.  Roll  out  on  the 
paste  board  and  cut  into  shapes  with  paste  cut- 
ter. Place  upon  greased  tin  and  bake  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

Delicious  Rolls  —  One  and  one-half  pints  new 
milk,  1  cupful  hop  yeast,  3^  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
flour  for  forming  dough,  which  must  be  covered 
and  left  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add 
the  whites  of  2  well-beaten  eggs,  i^  cupful  butter 
and  flour,  and  knead  the  dough  briskly  for  10 
minutes;  roll  to  the  thickness  of  3^  an  inch,  cut 
in  4-inch  squares,  brush  the  tops  with  sweet 
milk  and  fold  them  over  cornerwise;  place  them 
close  together  in  buttered  pans.  Set  in  a  warm 
place  until  light,  when  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Grraham  Gems  —  Two  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
1  tablespoonful  butter,  well-stirred  together;  add 
1  coffeecupful  sweet  milk,  graham  to  make  a 
fltiff  batter,  then  1  well-beaten  egg,  saltspoonful 
of  salt  and  2  teaspoonfuls  good  baking-powder. 
This  makes  a  dozen  gems.  Bake  15  or  20  min- 
utes. 


PASTRY 


A  GOOD  hand  at  pastry  will  use  less  butter 
and  produce  lighter  crust  than  others. 
Salt  butter  is  very  good,  and  if  well 
washed  makes  a  good,  flaky  crust.  If  the 
weather  is  warm  the  butter  should  be  placed  in 
ice  water  to  keep  it  as  firm  as  possible;  when 
lard  is  used  take  care  that  it  is  perfectly  sweet. 
In  making  pastry,  as  in  other  arts,  "  practice 
will  make  perfect;"  it  should  be  touched  as 
lightly  as  possible,  made  in  a  cool  place,  and 
with  hands  perfectly  cool;  if  possible,  use  a 
marble  slab  instead  of  pastry  board;  if  the  latter 
is  used,  it  is  better  to  procure  it  made  of  hard 
wood. 

It  is  important  to  use  great  expedition  in  the 
preparation  of  pastry,  and  care  must  be  taken 
not  to  allow  it  to  stand  long  before  baking,  or 
it  will  become  flat  and  heavy.  A  brisk  oven 
will  be  required  for  puff  pastry ;  a  good  plan  ta 
test  the  projDer  heat  is  to  put  a  small  piece  of 
the  paste  in  before  baking  the  whole.  Be  sure 
that  the  oven  is  as  near  perfection  as  possible ; 
for  an  oven  in  which  the  heat  is  not  evenly  dis- 
tributed can  never  produce  a  well-baked  pie  or 
tart;  where  there  is  an  unequal  degree  of  heat 
the  pastry  rises  on  the  hottest  side  in  the  shape 
of  a  large  bubble  and  sinks  into  a  heavy,  indi- 
gestible lump  on  the  coolest.  Eaised  pie  cri^st 
should  have  a  good  soaking  heat,  and  glazed 
pastry  rather  a  slack  heat.  When  suet  is  used 
it  must  be  perfectly  free  from  skin  and  minced 
as  finely  as  possible:  beef  suet  is  considered  the 
best, 

173 


174  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

All  moulds,  pie-dishes,  patty-paos,  and  vessels 
of  aU  descriptions  used  for  baking  or  boiling 
must  be  well  buttered. 

The  outside  of  a  boiled  pudding  often  tastes 
disagreeably,  which  arises  from  the  cloth  not 
being  nicely  washed  and  kept  in  a  dry  place. 
It  should  be  dipped  in  boiling  water,  squeezed 
dry,  and  floured  when  to  be  used.  If  bread,  it 
fihould  be  tied  loosely;  if  batter,  tightly  over. 
The  water  should  be  boiling  briskly  when  the 
pudding  is  put  in.  Batter  pudding  should  be 
strained  through  a  coarse  sieve  when  all  is 
mixed.  In  others  the  eggs  separately.  A  pan 
of  cold  water  should  be  ready,  and  the  pudding 
dipped  in  as  soon  as  it  comes  out  of  the  pot, 
and  then  it  will  not  adhere  to  the  cloth. 

Snow  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  eggs 
either  in  puddings  or  pancakes.  Two  large 
spoonfuls  will  supply  the  place  of  one  egg,  and 
ihe  article  it  is  used  in  will  be  equally  good. 
This  is  a  useful  piece  of  information,  especially 
as  snow  often  falls  at  the  season  when  eggs  are 
the  dearest. 

Apple  Pudding  (Boiled)  —  Suet  or  butter 
crust,  apples,  sugar  to  taste,  a  little  minced 
lemon  peel,  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

Butter  a  pudding  mould,  line  with  the  paste, 
pare,  core  and  cut  the  apples  into  small  pieces. 
Pill  the  basin  and  add  the  sugar,  finely  minced 
lemon  peel  and  juice.  Cover  with  the  crust,  press 
the  edges  firmly,  cover  with  a  floured  cloth.  Tie 
securely  and  plunge  into  boiling  water.  Allow 
to  boil  2  hours.  Remove  from  basin  and  send 
to  table  quickly. 


Pastry.  "  175 

Apple  Charlotte  —  Soak  i^  box  gelatine  2 
hours  in  2  small  cups  of  cold  water.  Pare  and 
steam  8  medium-sized  apples;  when  they  are 
tender  press  through  the  colander  and  add  3  cups 
of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  1  large  lemon.  Mix 
the  gelatine  with  the  hot  apples  and  stir  until 
they  are  cold,  then  set  on  ice  to  harden.  Serve 
very  cold  with  whipped  cream.  This  is  an  old 
English  dainty. 

Currant  Dumpling  —  One  lb.  flour,  5  oz.  beef 
Buet,  7  oz.  currants,  1  glass  of  water. 

Mince  the  suet  finely,  mix  with  the  flour  and 
currants,  which  of  course  have  been  washed, 
picked  and  dried;  mix  with  the  above  proportion 
of  water  or  milk,  divide  into  dumplings  about 
the  size  of  an  orange;  tie  in  cloths,  plunge  into 
boilitig  water,  and  boil  from  1  to  1}^  hours. 
Serve  with  butter  and  white  sugar.       ^ 

Lemon  Dumplings  —  Ten  oz.  fine  bread- 
crumbs, 1  large  tablespoonful  flour,  %  lb.  finely 
chopped  beef  suet,  the  grated  rinds  of  2  small 
lemons,  4  oz.  powdered  sugar,  3  large  eggs 
beaten  and  strained,  and  last  of  all  the  juice  of 
the  2  lemons  also  strained. 

Mix  the  ingredients  well,  divide  into  four 
dumplings,  tie  them  in  well-floured  cloths,  and 
let  them  boil  an  hour. 

Apple  Pudding  (Baked)  —Ten  apples,  4  oz. 
brown  sugar,  3  oz.  butter,  4  eggs,  2}4  breakfast 
cups  of  bread-crumbs. 

Pare  and  cut  into  quarters  the  apples,  remov- 
ing the  cores.  Boil  them  to  a  pulp.  Well  whisk 
the  eggs  and  put  them  and  the  butter  into  the 
apple  pulp.  Stir  the  mixture  for  5  minutes. 
Grease  a  pie  dish  and  place  a  sprinkling  of 
bread-crumbs,  then  of  apple,  and  proceed  in  this 
manner  until  all  are  used.  Bake  for  ^  of  an 
hour.    The  top  layer  must  be  of  bread-crumbs. 


176  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Batter  Pudding  —  One  and  one-half  cnpfuls 
flour,  1  teaspoonf  al  baking-powder,  ^  teaspoon 
salt,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  eggs,  1  pint  milk. 

Steam  1  hour  and  serve  with  sauce.  Adding  a 
cupful  of  raisins,  or  any  other  desirable  fruit, 
either  fresh  or  dried,  to  the  above  pudding, 
makes  a  most  delicious  dish. 

Bread  Pudding"  —  Bread  and  boiling  milk, 
allowing  3^  a  pint  to  1  lb.  soaked  bread,  2  beaten 
eggs,  a  little  nutmeg,  sugar. 

Soak  the  bread  in  cold  water,  then  squeeze  it 
very  dry,  take  out  any  lumps,  and  add  the  milk, 
beat  up  the  eggs,  sweeten  to  taste,  add  nutmeg, 
and  bake  the  pudding  slowly  until  firm.  If 
desired,  a  few  sultanas  may  be  added  to  the 
pudding;  or,  if  the  bread  is  light,  such  as  the 
crusts  of  French  rolls,  it  may  be  soaked  in  as 
much  cold  milk  as  it  will  absorb,  and  when  it  is 
perfectly  soft  have  sugar,  eggs  and  flavoring 
added  to  it. 

Caramel  Pudding  — A  handful  of  white  sugar, 
3^  pint  water,  yolks  of  8  eggs,  1  pint  milk. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  of  a  deep  brown 
color,  warm  a  small  basin,  pour  the  syrup  in  and 
keep  turning  the  basin  in  your  hand  until  the 
inside  is  completely  coated  with  the  syrup, 
which,  by  that  time,  will  have  set.  Take  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  and  mix  gradually  and  effect- 
ually with  the  milk.  Pour  this  mixture  into  the 
prepared  mold.  Lay  a  piece  of  paper  on  the 
top.  Set  it  in  a  saucepan  full  of  cold  water, 
taking  care  that  the  water  does  not  come  over 
the  top  of  the  mould,  put  on  the  cover,  and  let  it 
boil  gently  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  1  hour. 
Remove  the  saucepan  to  a  oool  place,  and  when 
the  water  is  quite  cold  take  out  the  mould,  and 
turn  out  the  pudding  very  carefully. 


Pastry »  111 

Creamed  Sponge  Cake  —  Oufc  the  top  from  a 
stale  sponge  cake  loaf  in  1  piece,  3^  an  inch 
thick.  Dig  and  scrape  the  crumbs  from  inside 
of  loaf  and  upper  slice,  leaving  enough  to  keep 
the  outside  firm.  Spread  a  thick  layer  of  fruit 
jelly  on  the  inside.  Heat  a  cup  of  milk  to  a 
boil,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  wet 
with  cold  milk,  and  the  cake  crumbs  rubbed  fine. 
Stir  until  thick,  take  from  the  fire,  beat  in  2 
whipped  eggs  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Make  all  into  smooth  batter;  set  in  boiling  water 
on  the  range  and  stir  for  5  minutes  after  the 
mixture  is  really  hot  enough.  Turn  into  a  bowl, 
flavor  with  almond  or  vanilla,  and  let  it  get  cold. 
Fill  the  cake  with  it,  fit  on  the  top,  wash  all  over 
with  whipped  white  of  egg;  sift  powdered  sugar 
evenly  over  it  until  no  more  will  adhere  to  the 
surface,  and  let  it  harden. 

Martha's  Puddiiig"  —  One-half  pint  milk,  1 
laurel  leaf,  a  piece  of  cinnamon,  1  cupful  bread- 
crumbs, 3  eggs,  nutmeg  and  lemon-peel,  1  tea- 
spoonful  orange-flower  water. 

Put  the  laurel  leaf  and  cinnamon  into  the  milk 
and  boil,  then  pour  over  the  bread-crumbs,  add 
the  eggs  well  beaten,  the  nutmeg,  lemon-peel 
and  flower-water.  Sweeten  to  taste,  butter  a 
basin,  stick  currants  or  split  raisins  in  rows  upon 
it.  Stir  all  the  ingredients  well  together  and 
pour  into  the  basin.  Cover  with  a  cloth  and 
boil  114,  hours. 

Chocolate  Pudding" — One  quart  milk,  14  even 
tablespoonfuls  grated  bread-crumbs,  12  table- 
spoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  6  eggs,  1  tablespoon- 
ful vanilla,  sugar  to  make  very  sweet. 

Separate  the  yolks  and  whites  of  4  eggs;  beat 
np  the  4  yolks  and  2  whole  eggs  together  very 
light  with  sugar.  Put  the  milk  on  the  range, 
and  when  it  comes  to  a  perfect  boil  pour  it  over 

12 


178  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

the  bread  and  chocolate;  add  the  beaten  eggs, 
sugar  and  vanilla;  be  sure  it  is  sweet  enough; 
pour  into  a  buttered  dish;  bake  1  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  When  cold,  and  just  before  it 
is  served,  have  the  4  whites  beaten  with  a  little 
powdered  sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla  and  use 
as  a  meringue. 

Currant  Pudding  (Boiled)— Fourteen  oz. 
flour,  7  oz.  suet,  7  oz.  currants,  a  little  milk. 

Have  the  currants  washed  and  dried,  mixed 
with  the  finely  minced  suet  and  flour.  Moisten 
the  whole  with  suflBcient  milk  to  form  a  stiff 
batter.  Place  in  a  floured  cloth  and  plunge  into 
boiling  water.  Boil  4  hours  and  serve  with  butter 
and  sugar. 

Gingerbread  Pudding  —  Two  oz.  lard  or 
butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar,  2  ditto 
golden  syrup,  1  egg,  1  teacupful  milk,  1  tea- 
spoonful  ground  ginger,  8  oz.  flour  1  teaspoon- 
ful  baking-powder. 

Work  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add 
the  egg  beaten  well,  the  ginger,  syrup  and  milk, 
and  then  the  flour  and  baking-powder.  Steam  4 
hours. 

Ginger  Pudding  —  Nine  oz.  flour,  5  oz.  suet, 
5  oz.  sugar,  1  large  tablespoonful  grated  ginger. 

Chop  the  suet  finely,  add  to  the  flour,  sugar 
and  vinegar;  mix  well.  Butter  a  mould  and  put 
the  ingredients  in  perfectly  dry.  Cover  securely 
with  a  cloth  and  boil  3  hours.  To  be  eaten  with 
sweet  sauce. 

Cherry  Pudding —  One  pint  flour,  1  cup  milk, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2  eggs,  3^  cup  sugar,  2 
teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  a  little  salt  and  a 
pint  of  cherries  which  have  been  stoned.  Boil  1 
hour.  If  one  has  not  a  regular  boiler,  the  batter 
may  be  turned  into  a  5-pound  lard  pail,  or  any 
tin  pail  holding  about  2  quarts.     Cover  tightly, 


Pastry.  179 

and  place  in  a  large  kettle  of  boiling  water,  which 
should  also  be  covered.  Never  let  the  pudding 
stop  boiling  for  a  second  until  it  is  removed. 

Orange  Pudding — The  rind  of  1  Seville 
orange,  6  oz.  fresh  butter,  6  oz.  white  sugar,  6 
eggs,  1  apple,  puff  paste. 

Grate  the  rind  and  mix  with  the  butter  and 
sugar,  adding  by  degrees  the  eggs  well  beaten; 
scrape  a  raw  apple  and  mix  with  the  rest;  line 
the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  dish  with  paste,  pour 
in  the  orange  mixture,  and  lay  it  over  crossbars 
of  paste.    It  will  take  half  an  hour  to  bake. 

Lemon  Pudding  —  Two  eggs,  2  cupfuls 
sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch,  2  lemons, 
butter. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  light,  add  the  sugar; 
dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  a  little  cold  water,  stir 
into  it  2  teacupfuls  of  boiling  water;  put  in  the 
juice  of  the  lemons,  with  some  of  the  grated 
peel.  Mix  all  together  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter.  Bake  about  15  minutes.  When  done 
spread  over  the  top  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  brown. 

Fairy  Pudding  —  Over  ^  box  gelatine  pour 
1  cup  of  cold  water  and  let  it  soak  1  hour.  Let 
1  pint  of  rich  milk  come  to  a  boil  and  add  to  it  3 
well-beaten  eggs  and  3^  cup  of  sugar;  when  it 
thickens,  stir  in  the  gelatine  and  in  2  minutes 
take  from  the  fire  and  flavor  with  almond 
extract.  Line  a  mould  with  stale  cake,  pour  in 
the  mixture  and  set  away  on  ice.  Whip  1  pint 
of  cream  and  pile  on  the  top;  serve  very  cold. 

Marmalade  Pudding  —  Two  oz.  lard  or  but- 
ter, 2  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar,  4  oz.  marma- 
lade, 1  egg,  1  teacup  milk,  8  oz.  flour,  1  teaspoon- 
ful baking-powder. 


180  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Well  mix  the  bntter  and  sugar,  then  add  the 
eggs  well  beaten,  the  marmalade  and  milk,  then 
the  flour  and  baking-powder.     Steam  4  hours. 

Boiled  Batter  Pudding  —  Three-fourths  lb. 
flour,  3  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  pint  of  milk. 

Put  the  flour  and  salt  in  a  basin  and  break  the 
eggs  in  it  and  mix  well.  Then  add  the  milk 
gradually,  stirring  well  to  make  the  batter 
smooth.  Beat  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  a  few 
minutes,  put  it  into  a  well-buttered  basin,  tie 
over  with  a  well-floured  cloth  and  boil  for  1}£ 
hours. 

Holiday  Pudding  —  A  plain  sponge  cake, 
strawberry  jam,  icing,  a  rich  custard,  some  pre- 
served ginger. 

Make  the  sponge  cake  in  a  round  mold;  take 
out  the  inside  of  the  cake  with  a  cutter,  not  too 
near  the  edge;  put  in  a  layer  of  strawberry  jam, 
not  too  thickly  spread.  Cut  the  inside  of  the 
cake  you  have  taken  out  in  slices,  spread  some 
jam  between  each  slice  (different  sorts  of  jam 
may  be  used,  but  strawberry  does  very  nicely), 
and  replace  the  cake.  Ice  it  nicely  over;  put  it 
into  a  very  slow  oven  to  try  the  icing.  Then 
make  the  custard  and  pour  into  it  small  pieces  of 
preserved  ginger.  Pour  into  the  cake  and  serve 
hot. 

Cabinet  Pudding'  —  One  and  one-half  pints 
new  milk,  white  sugar,  1  lemon,  cinnamon,  mace, 
cloves,  5  eggs  and  the  yolks  of  4,  butter,  4  or  5 
sponge  cakes. 

Boil  the  milk  with  enough  white  sugar  to 
sweeten  it,  the  peel  of  a  fresh  lemon  cut  thinly, 
the  cinnamon,  mace  and  cloves..  Boil  these 
ingredients  as  for  a  custard.  Beat  up  the  eggs. 
Pour  the  boiling  milk,  etc.,  on  to  these,  stirring 
continually,  then  strain  the  whole  through  a  hair 


Pastry.  181 

sieve  and  leave  to  cool.  Take  a  good-sized  pud- 
ding mould,  butter  it  well  and  line  it  with  sponge 
cake  cut  into  thin  slices.  Pour  the  custard  into 
the  mould  and  tie  it  close.  It  will  take  1%  hours 
to  boil.  It  is  an  improvement,  after  buttering 
the  mould  and  before  placing  the  sponge  cakes,  to 
arrange  some  stoned  raisins,  slices  of  candied 
peel  and  nutmeg.     Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

Fig-  Pudding-— One  lb.  flour,  2  oz.  bread 
crumbs,  2  oz.  finely-chopped  suet,  2  oz.  sugar,  1 
^g^'  M  lb.  figs  cut  in  slices. 

Flavor  with  nutmeg;  mix  all  with  milk  and 
boil  2  hours. 

Steamed  Pudding— One  cupful  suet  chopped 
fine,  1  cupful  molasses,  1  cupful  currants  washed 
and  dried,  1  cupful  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful 
soda,  a  little  salt,  flour. 

Mix  well,  using  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
dough;  pour  into  a  mold  and  steam  4  hours. 

Oxford  Dimiplings— Two  oz.  grated  bread,  4 
oz.  currants,  4  oz.  suet  chopped  fine,  1  large 
spoonful  flour,  1  oz.  pounded  sugar,  3  eggs, 
grated  lemon  peel  and  a  little  spice. 

Mix  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten 
and  a  little  milk.  Divide  into  5  dumplings  3^ 
inch  thick,  and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  plenty  of 
lard.  Serve  with  white  sauce  and  sifted  sugar  on 
them. 

Fruit  Pudding— Crust:  One-fourth  oz.  suet 
to  6  oz.  flour;  pinch  of  salt,  and  water  enough  to 
make  a  thick  paste;  fruit  and  sugar. 

Make  the  crust  of  suet,  flour,  salt  and  water; 
roll  it  out  thin  before  putting  into  a  buttered 
basin,  then  add  the  fruit  mixed  with  the  sugar, 
except  in  the  case  of  apples,  which  are  some- 
times hardened  by  boiling  with  sugar;  put  on  a 
lid  of  paste,  and  boil  the  pudding  1%  hours. 
Care  should  be  taken  to  roll  the  crust  thin,  in 


182  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

order  to  get  as  much  fruit  as  possible  into  the 
pudding.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  stew  a  little  fruit, 
and  serve  it  with  the  pudding,  as  it  should  be 
given  to  children  in  large  proportion  to  the  crust. 

Strawberry  Saracen— Toast  very  thin  slices 
of  stale  bread  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
a  China  dish  with  them,  after  buttering  gener- 
ously. Trim  the  bread  to  fit  the  dish  neatly. 
Fill  the  space  with  strawberries  packed  and 
heaped  as  full  as  the  dish  will  hold;  sift  plenty 
of  sugar  all  through  and  over  them,  and  set  the 
dish  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  half  an  hour. 
It  will  be  found  that  the  berries  melt  a  great 
deal,  so  they  must  be  plentiful.  Serve  very  cold 
with  rich,  thick  cream.  This  is  one  of  the  most 
delicious  desserts  imaginable,  notwithstanding 
that  there  are  people  who  consider  it  almost  a 
crime  to  cook  strawberries  in  any  way. 

Mince  Pies — The  sooner  the  Christmas  mince 
meat  is  prepared  and  set  away  to  ripen  so  much 
better  will  the  pies  made  of  it  be.  Take  3  lbs. 
lean  beef  from  the  round  and  boil  it  in  enough 
water  to  cover  it.  When  very  tender,  set  it  away 
till  cold,  and  then  chop  very  fine,  carefully  re- 
moving any  piece  of  gristle  or  fat.  Next  weigh 
out  5  lbs.  Greening  apples;  after  peeling  and 
coring  them,  chop  fine  and  add  to  the  meat. 
Chop  fine  ]  lb.  kidney  suet  and  2  lbs.  seeded 
raisins  and  add  to  the  above  with  2  lbs.  clean 
currants,  %  lb.  citrons,  finely  shredded,  and  4 
oz.  each  of  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel  (or 
the  grated  rind  of  2  oranges  and  2  lemons),  and 
the  pulp  of  2  oranges  and  2  lemons  chopped  and 
freed  from  seeds  and  tough  bits.  To  these  in- 
gredients add  enough  sugar  to  sweeten  to  taste, 
also  2  even  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  1  table- 
spoonful  mace,  1  tablespoonful  alspice  and  1 
tablespoonful  cloves,  together  with  a  grated  nut- 


Pastry.  183 

meg  and  a  good  teaspoonful  salt.  Now  add 
enough  sweet  cider  to  secure  the  right  consist- 
ency— 3  pints  or  two  quarts.  Any  fruit  juice  is 
an  improvement,  especially  the  juice  from  spiced 
pears  or  peaches.  Some  liberally  disposed  house- 
wives contribute  a  jar  of  preserved  strawberries, 
or  raspberries,  or  cherries,  to  their  pot  of  mince, 
which  is  a  rare  improvement.  When  all  has  been 
thoroughly  mixed,  place  the  stone  pot  contain- 
ing the  mince  meat  on  the  back  of  the  range  to 
warm  slowly  through,  gradually  moving  it  for- 
ward till  it  boils;  then  push  it  back  to  simmer 
for  a  few  moments,  after  which  it  should  be  set 
away  to  cool.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  till  wanted, 
and  in  making  the  pies  sprinkle  in  about  a 
dozen  seeded  raisins  to  each  one. 

Plum  Pudding- — Two  lbs.  beef  suet,  1%  lbs. 
bread  crumbs,  1%  lbs.  flour,  2  lbs.  raisins,  2^^  lbs. 
currants,  %  lb.  mixed  peel,  1%  lbs.  foots  sugar, 
14  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg,  ginger,  allspice  (pow- 
dered), a  large  pinch  of  salt,  %  P^^*  milk. 

Chop  the  suet  as  finely  as  possible,  and  any 
stale  piece  of  bread  can  be  used  for  grating, 
allowing  the  above  quantity;  mix  with  the  suet 
and  flour.  Stone  the  raisins,  and  have  the  cur- 
rants perfectly  washed  and  dried,  the  peel  cut 
into  thin  slices  and  added  to  the  suet,  bread  and 
flour,  mixing  well  for  some  minutes;  then  add 
the  sugar  and  continue  working  with  the  hands 
for  5  minutes.  Put  the  eggs  into  a  bowl  (break- 
ing each  into  a  cup  first  to  ascertain  that  it  is 
fresh  and  to  remove  the  speck),  add  to  them 
grated  nutmeg,  powdered  ginger  and  powdered 
allspice,  according  to  taste,  and  a  large  pinch  of 
salt;  then  stir  in  3^  pint  milk;  beat  all  up  to- 
gether, and  pour  it  gradually  into  another  bowl, 
working  the  whole  mixture  with  the  hand  for 
some  time.  If  the  mixture  be  too  stiff,  add 
more    milk,   and    continue   to  work   it   with   a 


184  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

wooden  spoon  for  at  least  3^^  hour.  Scald  2  pud- 
ding cloths,  spread  each  in  a  bowl  and  dredge 
them  well  with  flour.  Divide  the  composition  in 
2  equal  parts,  put  each  in  its  cloth  and  tie  it  up 
tightly.  To  boil  the  pudding,  place  2  inverted 
plates  in  saucepans  filled  with  water,  and  when 
the  water  boils  fast  put  each  puddings  into  its 
saucepan.  Let  them  boil  6  hours,  keeping  the 
saucepan  full  by  adding  more  water  as  it  is  re- 
quired, and  taking  care  that  it  never  ceases 
boiling.  Then  take  the  pudding  out  and  hang 
them  up  till  the  next  day,  when  the  cloth  of  each 
pudding  should  be  tightened  and  tied  afresh, 
and  3  hours'  boiling,  as  in  the  first  instance,  will 
make  them  ready  for  table. 

Baked  Custard — Five  eggs,  5  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  1  quart  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  almond  or 
other  flavoring  extract.  Beat  the  whites  and 
yolks  of  the  eggs  separately,  to  the  yolks  add 
the  sugar,  then,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  milk, 
next  the  flavoring,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  stir  well  together  and  bake  in  thick  cups 
set  in  a  pan  of  water  in  rather  quick  oven  until 
firm — this  usually  takes  about  30  minutes. 

A  Teetotaler's  Christmas  Pudding  — Pick 

and  stone  2  lbs.  good  Valentias;  pick,  wash  and 
dry  1  lb.  currants;  chop  2  lbs.  beef  suet;  have 
ready  3^^  lb.  brown  sugar,  6  oz.  candied  peel,  cut 
thin,  21^  lbs.  flour,  6  eggs,  a  quart  or  more  of 
milk,  1  oz.  mixed  spice,  and  a  tablespoonf ul  salt. 
Put  the  flour  into  a  large  pan,  add  the  plums, 
currants,  suet,  sugar,  peel,  spice  and  salt,  and 
mix  them  well  together  while  dry.  Beat  the  eggs 
well  in  a  large  basin,  and  add  a  portion  of  the 
milk,  stirring  it  at  the  same  time.  Make  a  well 
in  the  middle  of  the  flour  and  pour  in  the  milk 
and  eggs.  Keep  stirring  till  all  the  ingredients 
are  thoroughly  mixed.     Add  more  milk,  if  neces- 


Pastry,  185 

sary,  and  stir  up  again;  the  batter  should  be 
rather  stiff.  Have  a  good  stout  cloth  ready; 
wet  and  flour  it  well,  lay  it  over  a  pan,  pour  in 
the  batter,  and  tie  it  firmly  up.  When  the  water 
in  the  copper  or  large  kettle  boils,  put  the  pud- 
ding in  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  5  or  6  hours. 
Turn  it  carefully  out  of  the  cloth.  Serve  with 
or  without  sauce. 

Dutch  Boiled  Pudding— Mix  well  together  1 
cupful  suet,  1  cupful  milk,  1  cupful  molasses,  1 
tablespoonful  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  ground 
cloves,  ^  nutmeg;  add  flour  to  make  a  stiff  bat- 
ter, and  1  teaspoonful  baking-powder,  and  last 
of  all  mix  in  the  batter  1}4  cupf  uls  of  any  kind  of 
fruit  well  floured.  Wet  a  cloth-bag— an  old  nap- 
kin makes  a  good  bag — and  sprinkle  conscien- 
tiously with  flour;  then  pour  in  the  batter  and 
tie  up  the  neck  of  the  bag  very  tightly,  leaving 
a  generous  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell,  for  it 
is  as  expansive  as  gossip.  Have  a  kettle  of  boil- 
ing water  and  dump  in  the  bag.  You  must  turn 
the  bag  every  10  minutes  for  the  first  hour,  then 
boil  it  for  two  hours  longer,  and  if  you  have  not 
let  the  supply  of  water  run  too  low,  or  forgot  to 
turn  it,  or  scalded  yourself  in  the  manipulations 
and  thus  left  too  much  of  the  pudding  above 
water  in  your  haste,  or  pricked  the  bag  with 
your  turning  fork,  or  done  anything  else  ruinous, 
you  will  have  a  pudding  not  nearly  so  indigesti- 
ble as  you  might  suppose. 

Puff  Puddings  —  One  pint  flour,  2  teaspoon- 
f uls  baking-powder  and  a  teaspoonful  salt,  enough 
milk  to  make  a  soft  batter,  and  1  pint  of  any 
kind  of  ripe  berries.  Make  your  batter,  grease 
cups  thoroughly,  and  into  each  one  put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  batter  and  one  of  the  berries, 
covering  them  with  more  batter.  Set  the  cups 
in  a  steamer  and  steam  20  minutes.     Make  the 


186  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

sauce  as  follows:  Mix  1  cup  sugar  and  3^  cup 
butter;  to  this  add  2  eggs;  beat  well  and  add  1 
cup  milk  and  one  of  the  berries.  Set  inside  of  a 
vessel  of  boiling  water  until  ready  to  use,  stirring 
often. 

Roly  Poly  Jam  Pudding— Suet  crust  and  10 
oz.  of  any  kind  of  jam. 

Having  made  a  nice  suet  crust,  roll  to  the 
thickness  of  about  %  inch.  Place  the  jam  in 
the  center  and  spread  equally  over  the  paste, 
allowing  a  margin  of  about  3^  inch  for  the  pud- 
ding to  join.  Roll  up  lightly,  join  the  ends 
securely,  place  upon  a  floured  cloth,  and  secure 
with  tape,  allowing  a  little  for  the  pudding  to 
swell.    Plunge  into  boiling  water  and  boil  2  hours. 

Red  Currant  Pudding" — Some  red  currants 
and  raspberries,  sugar,  slices  of  bread. 

Stew  the  red  currants  and  raspberries  with 
sugar  till  thoroughly  done,  pour  off  all  the  juice, 
and  put  the  fruit  while  hot  into  a  pudding  basin 
lined  with  bread  made  to  fit  exactly;  fill  the  basin 
up  with  fruit,  and  cover  it  with  a  slice  of  bread 
made  to  fit  exactly;  let  it  stand  till  quite  cold 
with  a  plate  on  it.  Boil  up  the  juice  which  was 
poured  off  with  a  little  more  sugar,  and  let  that 
get  cold.  When  served  the  pudding  must  be 
turned  out  on  a  dish  and  the  juice  poured  all 
over  it  so  as  to  color  the  bread  thoroughly.  It 
can  be  served  with  custard  or  cream. 

Raspberry  Pudding — One  pint  bread-crumbs, 
1  quart  milk,  2  cupfuls  sugar,  1  lemon,  butter,  a 
cupful  of  preserved  raspberries,  4  eggs. 

Mix  the  bread-crumbs,  milk,  2  cupfuls  sugar, 
the  peel  of  the  lemon  grated,  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  bake. 
When  done  spread  over  the  top  a  capful  of  pre- 
served raspberries;  put  over  that  a  meringue 
made  with  the  whites  of  the   eggs,  a  cupful  of 


Pastry.  187 

sugar  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Return  it  to 
the  oven  to  color;  let  it  partly  cool  and  serve  it 
with  rich  cream. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding  —  Two  cups  mashed 
sweet  potato  (the  potato  must  first  be  boiled), 
a  cup  of  sugar,  a  small  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs,  ^ 
teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water, 
a  teaspoonful  lemon  extract,  and  ^  teaspoonful 
grated  nutmeg. 

Beat  the  eggs  until  they  are  very  light,  rub  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  mix  all  with 
the  potato;  cover  a  deep  plate  or  shallow  pud- 
ding dish  with  a  thick  crust;  then  put  in  the 
mixture  and  bake  slowly  for  ^  of  an  hour. 

Eice  and  Raisin  Pudding  — Five  eggs,  1  cup 
rice,  1  cup  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2 
handfuls  of  raisins. 

Simmer  the  rice  in  a  quart  of  milk  until  tender; 
remove  from  the  stove  to  cool.  Well  whisk  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  and  add  to  the  rice,  also  the 
rest  of  the  milk,  sugar,  and  butter;  then  well 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  stone  the  raisins,  and 
add  to  the  other  ingredients.  Grate  nutmeg  on 
the  top  and  bake  1  hour. 

Raspberry  Bavarian  Cream  —  Cover  ^  box 
gelatine  with  }4  cupful  cold  water  and  let  soak 
1^  hour;  set  over  boiling  water  and  stir  until 
dissolved;  add  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  a  pint 
of  raspberry  juice;  strain  into  a  tin  pan.  Set  on 
ice  and  stir  until  thick;  add  a  pint  of  whipped 
cream.  Mix  thoroughly,  pour  in  a  mold,  and 
stand  aside  to  harden. 

Arrowroot  Blanc  Mange  — Moisten  2  des- 
sertspoonfuls of  best  arrowroot  with  water,  rub 
to  a  smooth  paste  and  throw  it  into  1  cupful  of 
boiling  milk;  stir  steadily  and  boil  until  it 
thickens.  Serve  cold,  sweetened  and  flavored 
to  taste. 


188  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Baked  Lemon  Pudding  —  Three  oz.  crumbB, 
3  oz.  sugar,  3  oz.  butter,  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  a  lemon,  ^  pint  milk,  3  eggs,  some  good  paste. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  pour  over  them  the 
milk,  made  hot.  When  cold,  add  the  eggs  and 
lemon  juice.  Line  a  greased  dish  with  thin  paste, 
putting  a  double  strip  round  the  edge;  pour  the 
mixture  into  it,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Rice  and  Apple  Pudding  —  A  cupful  of  rice, 
6  apples,  a  little  chopped  lemon  peel,  2  cloves, 
sugar. 

Boil  the  rice  for  10  minutes;  drain  it  through 
a  hair  sieve  until  quite  dry.  Put  a  cloth  into  a 
pudding  basin  and  lay  the  rice  round  it  like  a 
crust.  Cut  the  apples  into  quarters,  and  lay  them 
in  the  middle  of  the  rice  with  a  little  chopped 
lemon  peel,  cloves  and  some  sugar.  Cover  the 
fruit  with  rice,  tie  up  tight,  and  boil  for  an  hour. 
Serve  with  melted  butter,  sweetened  and  poured 
over  it. 

Cream  Tapioca  Pudding  —  Three  tablespoon- 
fuls  tapioca,  4  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  3 
tablespoonfuls  prepared  cocoanut,  1  quart  milk. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  water  over  night,  put  it  in 
the  milk  and  boil  ^  of  an  hour.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  into  a  cup  of  sugar,  add  the  cocoa- 
nut,  stir  in  and  boil  10  minutes  longer;  pour  into 
a  pudding  dish;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  stir  in  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  pat 
this  over  the  top  and  sprinkle  with  cocoanut,  and 
brown  5  minutes. 

French  Tapioca  —  Two  oz.  fine  tapioca,  j^ 
pint  milk,  1  well-beaten  egg,  sugar  and  flavoring. 

Take  the  tapioca  de  la  couronne,  and  boil  it  in 
3^  pint  water  until  it  begins  to  melt,  then  add 
the  milk  by  degrees,  and  boil  until  the  tapioca 
becomes  very  thick;  add  the  egg,  sugar  and 
flavoring   to  taste,  and   bake  gently  for   ^   of 


Pastry.  189 

an  hour.  This  preparation  of  tapioca  is  superior 
to  any  other,  is  nourishing,  and  suitable  for  del- 
icate children. 

Velvet  Pudding  —  Five  eggs,  1%  cupfuls 
sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  3  pints  milk. 

Dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  milk, 
and  add  1  cupful  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  beaten.  Boil  3  pints  of  milk  and  add  the 
other  ingredients  while  boiling;  remove  from 
the  fire  when  it  becomes  quite  thick;  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  pour  into  a  baking-dish;  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stijS  froth,  add  }4,  ^^P 
sugar,  turn  over  the  pudding,  and  place  it  in  the 
oven  and  let  brown  slightly. 

Sauce  for  Velvet  Pudding  —  Yolks  of  2  eggs, 
1  cupful  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  cup  milk. 

Well  beat  the  yolks,  sugar  and  butter;  add  to 
the  milk  (boiling),  and  set  on  the  stove  till  it 
comes  to  boiling  heat;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Florentine  Pudding  —  1  quart  milk,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  3  eggs,  3^  teacupful  sugar;  flavoring,  lemon 
or  vanilla,  or,  according  to  taste,  white  sugar. 

Put  the  milk  in  a  saucepan  and  allow  it  to  boil. 
Add  to  the  corn  starch  (mixed  in  the  milk)  the 
yolks  of  the  3  eggs  beaten,  the  sugar  and  flavor- 
ing; stir  in  the  scalding  milk,  continue  stirring 
until  the  mixture  is  of  the  consistency  of  cus- 
tard. Pour  into  baking-tin;  beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  in  a  teacup  of  pulverized  sugar  and 
when  the  pudding  is  cooked  spread  on  the  top; 
place  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Can  be  eaten  with 
cream,  but  is  very  nice  without. 

Sweet  Macaroni —  One-quarter  lb.  best  mac- 
aroni, 2  quarts  water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  teacup- 
ful milk,  3^  lb.  white  sugar,  flavoring. 


190  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Break  tip  the  macaroni  into  small  lengths,  and 
boil  in  the  water  (adding  the  salt)  nntil  perfectly- 
tender;  drain  away  the  water,  add  to  the  maca- 
roni, in  a  stewpan,  the  milk  and  sugar,  and  keep 
shaking  over  the  fire  until  the  milk  is  absorbed. 
Add  any  flavoring  and  serve  with  or  without 
stewed  fruit. 

(xingerbread  Pudding— One-quarter  lb.  suet, 
2  oz.  ground  ginger,  ^  lb.  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls 
molasses,  1  teaspoonful  baking-powder,  1  lb. 
flour,  about  }^  pint  milk. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  dissolve  the  molasses 
in  the  milk,  beat  all  well  together,  and  boil  in  a 
well-floured  cloth  for  3  hours. 

Oatmeal  Pudding  —  Two  oz.  fine  Scotch  oat- 
meal, ^  pint  cold  milk,  1  pint  boiling  milk,  sugar 
to  taste,  2  oz.  bread  crumbs,  1  oz.  shred  suet,  1 
or  2  beaten  eggs,  lemon  flavoring  or  grated  nut- 
meg. 

Mix  with  the  oatmeal,  first,  the  cold  milk,  and 
then  add  the  boiling  milk ;  sweeten  and  stir  over 
the  fire  for  10  minutes,  then  add  the  bread 
crumbs;  stir  until  the  mixture  is  stiff,  then  add 
the  suet  and  eggs;  add  flavoring.  Put  the  pud- 
ding in  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  slowly  for  an 
hour. 

Apple  Snowballs  —  One-half  lb.  rice,  5  or  6 
large  apples,  a  little  butter  and  sugar. 

Wash  the  rice,  put  it  into  plenty  of  water,  and 
boil  quickly  for  10  minutes,  drain  it  and  let  it 
cool.  Pare  the  apples,  take  out  the  core  with  a 
vegetable  cutter,  and  fill  the  hole  with  a  small 
piece  of  butter  and  some  sugar.  Enclose  each 
apple  in  rice,  tie  in  separate  cloths,  and  boil  for 
1  hour.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

Sunday  Pudding  —  One-quarter  lb.  bread- 
crumbs, }4.  V^^^  milk,  sugar  and  flavoring  to 
taste,  2  eggs,  strawberry  jam. 


Pastry.  191 

Boil  the  bread-crumbs  in  the  milk,  sweeten  and 
flavor,  and  when  the  bread  is  thick  stir  in  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs.  Pat  the  pudding  into  a  buttered  tart 
dish,  bake  slowly  for  ^  of  an  hour.  Then  spread 
over  the  top  a  layer  of  strawberry  jam,  and  on 
this  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sifted  sugar  to  a  strong  froth.  Dip  a  knife 
in  boiling  water,  and  with  it  smooth  over  the 
whites;  put  the  pudding  again  into  a  moderate 
oven  until  the  top  is  a  light  golden  brown.  Serve 
immediately. 

Yorkshire  Pudding*  —  One  egg,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  milk,  4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

Beat  the  egg  and  salt  with  a  fork  for  a  few  min- 
utes. Add  to  this  4  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and 
the  flour;  beat  (with  a  spoon)  very  well,  while  in 
a  batter,  for  10  minutes.  Then  add  the  milk  till 
it  attains  almost  the  consistency  of  cream.  Take 
care  to  have  the  dripping  hot  in  the  pudding  tin. 
Pour  the  batter  into  the  tin  to  the  thickness  of 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  then  bake  under  the 
roasting  joint.  The  above  will  make  a  pudding 
of  moderate  size,  perhaps  one  dozen  squares. 
The  great  secret  of  a  pudding  being  light  is  to 
mix  it  2  hours  before  cooking  it. 

Malvern  Pudding— Some  thin  slices  of  dry 
bread,  fresh  fruit,  sugar,  custard. 

Line  a  basin  with  the  slices  of  bread.  Boil 
some  fresh,  juicy  fruit  with  sugar,  in  the  propor- 
tion of  3^  lb.  to  1  lb.  of  fruit.  Pour  into  the 
lined  basin,  and  cover  with  slices  of  bread.  Put 
a  saucer  on  the  top  with  a  heavy  weight  on  it. 
Turn  out  next  day  and  pour  custard  round  it. 

Orange  Custard  —  The  juice  of  12  oranges, 
the  yolks  of  12  eggs,  1  pint  of  cream,  sugar  to 
taste. 

Sweeten  the  juice,  and  stir  it  over  a  slow  fire 
until  the  sugar  dissolves,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it 


192  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

rises.  When  nearly  cold  stir  in  the  yolks,  well 
beaten,  and  the  cream.  Stir  again  over  the  fire 
until  it  thickens.  Be  careful  not  to  boil  it,  or  it 
will  curdle. 

Apple  Solid  —  Take  3  lbs.  sliced  apples,  1% 
lbs.  lump  sugar,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2 
lemons. 

Dip  the  lumps  of  sugar  in  water,  and  boil  with 
the  apples  and  lemon  until  stiff.  Put  into  a 
mould,  and,  when  cold,  turn  out.  May  be  served 
with  custard  poured  round. 

Apple  Snow  —  Take  4  apples,  3  dessert- 
spoonfuls of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon, 
the  whites  of  3  eggs. 

Peel,  core  and  stew  the  apples,  mix  with  them 
the  sugar  and  lemon  rind.  Beat  the  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  with  the  apples,  and 
beat  the  whole  until  quite  white.  Pile  on  a  glass 
dish. 

Preserve  Sandwiches — One-half  lb.  sifted 
sugar,  3^  lb.  butter,  2  eggs,  2  oz.  ground  rice; 
work  them  well  together,  then  add  7  oz.  flour. 

Spread  half  this  mixture  upon  buttered  paper 
in  a  shallow  tin,  then  a  layer  of  preserve,  and 
cover  with  the  other  half  of  the  paste.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven,  and  when  cold  and  ready  for 
use  cut  it  into  pieces  like  sandwiches,  and  sprinkle 
sugar  over. 

Graliam  Pudding  —  Two  cups  Graham  flour, 
2  eggs,  1  quart  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
salt  to  taste. 

Put  a  pint  of  milk  into  a  buttered  stewpan,  and 
allow  to  heat  slowly.  Mix  the  rest  of  the  milk  in 
the  flour,  and  beat  lightly  with  the  butter,  eggs 
and  salt.  Then  pour  the  hot  milk  upon  it,  mix 
well,  return  to  the  fire  surrounded  by  boiling 
water,  and  stir  constantly   for   }^   hour;  grate 


Pastry.  193 

nutmeg  npon  it.    Serve  in  uncovered  dish,  and 
eat  with  butter  and  sugar. 

Cottage  Pie.— Two  lbs.  potatoes,  scraps  of 
cold  meat,  1  onion,  1}/^  oz.  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  3^^  glass  milk. 

Boil  and  mash  potatoes  (or  if  there  are  any 
cold  ones  at  hand,  they  will  do  as  well);  put  the 
milk  and  butter  on  the  fire  to  boil,  and  when 
boiling  pour  upon  the  mashed  potatoes  and 
mix  to  a  paste;  place  the  meat  in  a  pie  dish 
with  a  little  fat  in  layers,  mince  the  onion  and 
sprinkle  each  layer  with  it,  also  pepper  and  salt; 
half  fill  the  dish  with  water  or  gravy  and  cover 
with  the  potatoes,  smoothing  neatly  and  marking 
with  a  fork  into  a  pattern;  bake  3^  hour. 

Boiled  Bread  Pudding.— One-half  lb.  bread- 
crumbs, 2  oz.  powdered  loaf   sagar,  1  pint  milk, 

2  oz.  currants,  1  oz.  candied  peel  cut  very  small, 

3  eggs. 

Mix  the  crumbs  and  sugar;  make  the  milk  hot, 
and  pour  it  over  them.  When  nearly  cold  add 
the  other  ingredients,  and  boil  in  a  mould  for  2 
hours,  or  steam  3  hours.   Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

Eel  Pie. —  Eels,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  puff 
paste,  1  onion,  a  few  cloves,  a  little  stock,  1  egg, 
butter,  flour  and  lemon  juice. 

Skin  and  wash  some  eels,  remove  the  heads 
and  tails;  cut  up  the  fish  into  pieces  about  three 
inches  long,  season  them  with  salt,  pepper  and 
nutmeg.  Border  a  pie  dish  with  puff  paste,  put 
in  the  eels  with  a  chopped  onion,  and  a  few  cloves; 
add  a  little  clear  stock;  cover  with  puff  paste, 
brush  over  the  crust  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
and  bake.  Make  a  sauce  with  the  trimmings  of 
the  eels,  some  white  stock  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper;  thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour,  add 
some  lemon  juice,  strain,  and  pour  it  quite  hot 
through  a  funnel  into  the  pie. 


194  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

Pigeon  Pie — Pigeons,  pepper  and  salt,  a  piece 
of  butter,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  beefsteak,  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  1  cup  water,  a  few  pieces  of  ham, 
crust. 

Rub  the  pigeons  with  pepper  and  salt,  inside 
and  out;  in  the  former  put  a  piece  of  butter,  and, 
if  approved,  some  parsley  chopped  with  the 
livers,  and  a  little  of  the  seasoning;  lay  the 
steak  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  the  birds 
on  it;  between  every  two  a  hard  egg.  Put  the 
water  in  the  dish,  and  if  you  have  any  ham  in 
the  house,  lay  a  piece  on  each  pigeon;  it  is  a 
great  improvement  to  the  flavor.  Observe,  when 
the  ham  is  cut  for  gravy  or  pies,  to  take  the  under 
part  rather  than  the  prime.  Season  the  gizzards, 
and  the  two  joints  of  the  wings,  and  put  them  in 
the  center  of  the  pie,  and  over  them,  in  a  hole 
made  in  the  crust,  three  feet  nicely  cleaned,  to 
show  what  pie  it  is. 

Chicken  Pie  —  Two  young  fowls;  seasoning: 
white  pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace  and  nutmeg,  all 
of  the  finest  powder,  and  cayenne.  Some  fresh 
ham  out  in  slices,  or  gammon  of  bacon,  some 
forcemeat  balls,  and  hard  eggs.  Gravy  from 
knuckle  of  veal  or  a  piece  of  scrag,  shank  bone 
of  mutton,  herbs,  onion,  mace,  and  white 
pepper. 

Cut  up  the  fowls;  add  the  seasoning.  Put  the 
chicken,  slices  of  ham,  or  gammon  of  bacon, 
forcemeat  balls  and  hard  eggs  by  turn  in  layers. 
If  it  be  baked  in  a  dish  put  a  little  water,  but 
none  if  in  a  raised  crust.  By  the  time  it  returns 
from  the  oven  have  ready  a  gravy  made  of  the 
veal  or  scrag,  shank  bones  of  mutton  and  season- 
ing. If  to  be  eaten  hot  you  may  add  truffles, 
morels,  mushrooms,  etc.,  but  not  if  to  be  eaten 
cold.  If  it  is  made  in  a  dish  put  as  much  gravy 
as  will  fill  it;  but  in  raised  crust  the  gravy  must 


Pastry.  195 

be  nicely  strained,  and  then  put  in  cold  as  jelly. 
To  make  the  jelly  clear,  you  may  give  it  a  boil 
with  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  after  taking  away 
the  meat,  and  then  run  it  through  a  fine  lawn 
sieve. 

Giblet  Pie  —  Some  goose  or  duck  giblets, 
water,  onion,  black  pepper,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  a  large  teacupf ul  of  cream,  sliced  potatoes, 
plain  crust,  salt. 

Line  the  edge  of  a  pie  dish  with  a  plain  crust. 
Stew  the  giblets  in  a  small  quantity  of  water 
with  the  seasoning  till  nearly  done.  Let  them 
grow  cold,  and,  if  not  enough  to  fill  the  dish,  lay 
a  beef,  veal  or  two  or  three  mutton  steaks  at  the 
bottom.  Add  the  giblets  that  the  liquor  was 
boiled  in.  Lay  slices  of  cold  potatoes  on  the 
top  and  cover  with  the  crust;  bake  for  1)^  hours 
in  a  brisk  oven. 

Lemon  Pie  (l)  —  Crust,  1  lemon,  1}^  cups 
white  sugar,  1  cup  water,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  1  tablespoonful  flour,  1  egg. 

Make  your  crust  as  usual;  cover  your  pie-tins 
(I  use  my  jelly-cake  tins)  and  bake  exactly  as  for 
tart  crusts.  If  you  make  more  than  you  need, 
never  mind,  they  will  keep.  While  they  are 
baking,  if  they  rise  in  the  center,  take  a  fork  and 
open  the  crust  to  let  the  air  out.  Now  make  the 
filling  as  follows:  For  one  pie  take  a  nice  lemon 
and  grate  ofif  the  outside,  taking  care  to  get  only 
the  yellow;  the  white  is  bitter.  Squeeze  out  all 
the  juice;  add  white  sugar,  water  and  butter. 
Put  in  a  basin  on  the  stove.  When  it  boils  stir 
in  the  flour,  and  the  yolk  of  one  eg^i  beaten 
smooth  with  a  little  water.  When  it  boils  thick 
take  off  the  stove  and  let  it  cool.  Fill  vour  pie 
crust  with  this.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  stiff, 
add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  pour  over 
the  top  of  the  pie.    Brown  carefully  in  the  oven. 


196  White  Ribbon  Cook  Booh. 

Lemon  Pie  (2)  —  One  cup  sugar,  1  table- 
spoonful  butter,  1  egg,  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind, 
1  teacupful  boiling  water  and  1  tablespoonful 
corn-starch. 

Dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  a  little  cold  water, 
then  stir  it  into  the  boiling  water;  cream  the 
butter  and  sugar,  then  pour  over  them  the  hot 
mixture;  cool,  add  the  lemon  juice,  rind  and 
beaten  egg\  bake  with  or  without  upper  crust. 

Peach  Pie  —  Puff  or  short  crust,  peaches, 
>-  Jgar. 

Line  a  dish  with  a  nice  crust,  skin  the  peaches, 
remove  the  stones,  and  put  the  fruit  into  the 
dish,  with  a  little  sugar  and  water.  Cover  with 
crust  and  bake  a  golden  brown. 

Rhubarb  Pie  —  Rhubarb,  a  little  lemon  peal, 
sugar,  water,  short  crust. 

Use  a  deep  pie  dish,  wipe  the  stalks  with  a 
clean,  damp  cloth,  cut  into  pieces  about  an  inch 
in  length,  mince  the  lemon  peel,  line  the  edge  of 
the  dish  with  the  crust,  then  fill  the  dish  with 
rhubarb,  sugar  and  lemon,  adding  a  cup  of 
water.  Cover  with  crust,  making  a  hole  in  the 
middle.     Bake  about  ^  of  an  hour. 

Gooseberry  Pie  —  Top  and  tail  the  berries, 
line  the  edge  of  a  deep  dish  with  short  crust. 
Put  the  berries  into  it  with  at  least  6  ounces  of 
moist  sugar  and  a  little  water.  Cover  with  upper 
crust  and  bake  from  3^  to  ^  of  an  hour. 

Damson  Pie  —  Damsons,  3^  lb.  moist  sugar, 
crust. 

Line  the  edge  of  a  deep  dish  with  crust,  place 
a  small  cap  in  the  middle,  fill  the  dish  with  the 
fruit,  sprinkling  the  sugar  over;  cover  with  crust 
and  bake  about  ^  of  an  hour.  If  puff  paste  is 
used,  just  before  it  is  done  remove  from  the  oven 
and  brush  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  beaten 


Pastry.  197 

to  a   froth.     Sift  a   little  white  sugar   over  and 
return  to  the  oven  till  finished. 

Cocoaniit  Pie —  One  cup  grated  cocoanut,  }4 
pint  milk,  2  crackers,  3  eggs,  butter,  salt,  rind  of 
^  lemon,  sugar  if  desired,  puff  crust. 

Make  a  nice  puff  crust,  line  a  dish  and  bake; 
when  done,  set  aside  to  cool;  soak  the  cocoanut 
in  the  milk,  pound  the  crackers  well,  whisk  the 
eggs,  and  grate  the  rind  of  the  half  lemon.  Mix 
all  together,  adding  a  little  salt,  sugar  and 
butter.  When  well  mixed  place  in  the  pie-dish, 
and  put  in  the  oven  to  slightly  brown. 

Pumpkin  Pie  (1)— One  pint  well-stewed  and 
strained  pumpkin,  1  quart  scalding  hot  rich  milk, 
13/2  cups  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1 
tablespoonful  ginger  and  1  of  ground  cinnamon. 

Bake  in  pie-plate  lined  with  good  paste;  do 
not  let  mixture  stand  after  it  is  put  together,  but 
bake  at  once.  """ 

Pumpkin  Pie  (2)—  One  quart  stewed  pump- 
kin pressed  through  a  sieve,  9  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately,  2  quarts  milk,  1  tea- 
spoonful  mace,  1  of  cinnamon  and  1  of  nutmeg, 
13^  cups  sugar. 

Beat  all  together  and  bake  with  one  crust. 

Pumpkin  Pie  (3)— A  pumpkin,  1  good  cupful 
molasses;  to  a  whole  pumpkin  allow  3  pints  rich 
milk,  4  eggs,  some  salt,  a  little  cinnamon,  brown 
sugar  to  taste,  crust. 

Prepare  the  pumpkin  by  cutting  into  small 
pieces;  stew  rapidly  until  it  is  soft  and  the  water 
is  stewed  out,  then  let  it  remain  on  the  stove  to 
simmer  all  day.  When  well  cooked,  add  the 
molasses,  and  cook  all  down  until  dry;  then  sift 
through  a  colander;  it  will  nearly  all  go  through 
if  properly  ^cooked;  then  add  the  milk,  spices 
and  eggs.  Too  much  spice  destroys  the  flavor  of 


198  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

the  pumpkin.  Sweeten  to  taste,  then  bake  in  a 
crust  the  same  as  for  custard.  Let  it  cook  until 
of  a  dark  brown  color.  This  is  a  very  wholesome 
dish. 

French  Pancakes  —  Five  eggs,  nearly  a  pint 
of  cream,  1  oz.  butter. 

Beat  the  cream  till  it  is  stiff,  and  the  yolks  and 
whites  separately  and  add  to  the  cream,  and  beat 
the  mixture  for  5  minutes;  butter  the  pan  and 
fry  quickly;  sugar  and  roll,  and  place  on  a  hot 
dish  in  the  oven.     Serve  very  hot. 

Rice  Pancakes  —  One-half  lb.  rice,  1  pint 
cream,  8  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  3^  lb.  but- 
ter, flour. 

Boil  the  rice  to  a  jelly  in  a  small  quantity  of 
water;  when  cold,  mix  it  with  the  cream,  well- 
whisk  the  eggs  and  add  also  with  a  little  salt  and 
nutmeg.  Then  stir  in  the  butter,  just  warmed, 
and  add,  slowly  stirring  all  the  time,  as  much 
flour  as  will  make  the  batter  thick  enough.  Fry 
in  as  little  lard  as  possible. 

Irish  Pancakes  —  Eight  eggs,  1  pint  cream, 
nutmeg  and  sugar  to  taste,  3  oz.  butter,  3^  pint 
flour. 

Beat  8  yolks  and  4  whites  of  eggs,  strain  them 
into  the  cream,  put  in  grated  nutmeg  and  sugar 
to  taste;  set  3  oz.  fresh  butter  on  the  fire,  stir  it, 
and  as  it  warms  pour  it  to  the  cream,  which 
should  be  warm  when  the  eggs  are  put  to  it; 
then  mix  smooth  almost  3^  pint  flour.  Fry  the 
pancakes  very  thin,  the  first  with  a  piece  of  but- 
ter, but  not  the  others.  Serve  several  on  one  an- 
other. 

Apple  Pie  —  Puff  paste,  apples,  sugar  (brown 
will  do),  a  small  quantity  of  finely  minced  lemon 
peel,  and  lemon  juice. 

Prepare  the  ^aste  (see  recipe  Puff  Paste), 
spread  a  narrow  strip  round  the  edge  of  your 


Pastry.  199 

baking-dish,  and  put  in  the  fruit,  which  you  have 
previously  peeled,  cored  and  cut  into  convenient 
slices.  Sweeten  according  to  taste  and  add  the 
flavoring;  cover  with  a  pie  crust, making  a  small 
hole  in  the  middle,  and  place  in  the  oven  to  bake. 
When  nearly  done,  ice  the  crust  with  the  white  of 
an  egg  beaten  to  a  froth  and  spread  lightly  over 
it.  Sprinkle  with  white  sugar  and  replace  in  the 
oven  until  done. 

Orange  and  Apple  Pie  —  Puff  paste,  oranges, 
apples,  sugar. 

Cover  a  tin  pie-plate  with  puff  pastry  and 
place  a  layer  of  sliced  oranges,  with  the  pips  re- 
moved, on  it,  and  scatter  sugar  over  them;  then 
put  a  layer  of  sliced  apples,  with  sugar,  and 
cover  with  slices  of  oranges  and  sugar.  Put  an 
upper  crust  of  nice  pastry  over  the  pie,  and  bake 
it  for  3^hour,  or  until  the  apples  are  perfectly 
soft.  Take  the  pie  from  the  tin  plate  while  it  is 
warm,  put  into  a  china  plate  and  scatter  sugar 
over  the  top. 

To  Ice  or  Glaze  Pastry— The  whites  of  3 
eggs,  4  oz.  sugar. 

Place  the  whites  upon  a  plate  (beaten  with  a 
knife  to  a  stiff  froth);  just  before  the  pastry  is 
done,  remove  from  the  oven;  brush  with  the 
beaten  egg  and  sprinkle  the  white  sugar  upon  it. 
Return  to  the  oven  to  set. 

Glaze — The  yolks  of  3  eggs,  a  small  piece  of 
warm  butter,  white  sugar. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  butter  together,  and,  with  a 
pastry  brush,  brush  the  pastry  just  before  it  is 
finished  baking;  sift  white  sugar  upon  it  and  re- 
turn to  the  oven  to  dry. 

Light  Paste  for  Tarts  — One  Qgg,  %  lb.  flour, 
%  lb.  butter. 

Beat  the  white  of  an  eg^  to  a  strong  froth, 
then  mix  it  with  as  much  water  as  will  mpke  the 


.200  White  Ribbon  Cook  Boole. 

flour  into  a  very  stiff  paste;  roll  it  very  thin,  then 
lay  the  third  part  of  half  a  pound  of  bntter  upon 
it  in  little  pieces;  dredge  with  some  flour  left  out 
at  first  and  roll  up  tight.  Roll  it  out  again,  and 
put  the  same  proportion  of  butter,  and  so  pro- 
ceed till  all  be  worked  up. 

Strawberry  Tart  —  One  Ih.^  ^ed  flour,  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  1  gill  ice  water,  %  lb.  fresh  butter,  1 
tablespoonful  sifted  sugar,  strawberries. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  and  sugar,  add 
the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  mix  well  with  a  knife;  then 
add  just  enough  ice  water  to  make  a  paste  that 
will  roll  out.  It  must  be  a  firm  paste,  rather  dry. 
Be  careful  that  the  flour  is  dry  and  the  butter 
cold.  Roll  out  the  paste  about  one-third  of  an 
inch  thick;  line  with  it  a  pie-dish  at  least  1  inch 
deep  with  straight  sides;  trim  the  edges  neatly, 
and  bake  the  empty  crust  in  a  quick  oven  for  10 
to  12  minutes.  When  the  tart  is  to  be  servev 
fill  it  neatly  with  strawberries,  pour  some  of  tht 
syrup  over  and  serve  with  a  pitcher  of  cream. 
The  strawberries  should  not  be  allowed  to  stand 
'ong  in  the  crust,  or  its  crispness  will  be 
destroyed.  The  crust  should  be  firm,  brittle  and 
crisp,  not  flaky. 

Sponge  Cake — Three  cups  granulated  sugar, 
7  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  lukewarm  water, 

1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  3  cups  flour  and 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 

Put  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  in  your  cake  bowl 
and  beat  them  very  light  with  a  silver  fork;  then 
add  your  sugar  a  little  at  a  time,  beating 
thoroughly;  next  add  the  lemon,  then  alternately 
the  water  and  the  flour,  into  which  the  baking- 
powder  has  been  sifted;  lastly  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  beaten  very  stiff  and  merely  stirred  in 
lightly,  not  beaten.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 
nd  do  not  move  the  pan  once  put  in. 


Pastry.  20-^ 

Pu5f  Taste  —  One  lb.  flour,  %  lb.  butter,  1 
egg,  with  water. 

Mix  the  flour  with  a  Inmp  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg  to  a  very  stiff  paste  with  cold  water; 
divide  the  butter  into  six  equal  parts,  roll  the 
paste  and  spread  on  one  part  of  the  butter, 
dredging  it  with  flour;  repeat  until  all  the  but- 
ter is  rolled  in. 

Short  Crust  —  Half  lb.  flour,  3  oz.  butter,  2 
oz.  white  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  yolks  of  3  eggs. 

Rub  into  the  butter  the  flour  and  the  powdered 
loaf  sugar;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  the 
salt,  and  enough  milk  or  water  to  make  the  flour 
into  a  paste;  work  the  paste  lightly,  and  roll 
it  out  thin.  If  not  wanted  sweet,  the  sugar  may 
be  left  out. 

Suet  Crust  for  Meat  Puddings— Eight  oz. 

flour,  5  oz.  beef  suet,  a  little  salt. 

Remove  all  skin  from  the  suet,  chop  finely, 
and  mix  with  the  flour,  adding  a  little  salt  mix; 
well,  add  by  degrees  a  little  cold  water  and 
make  into  a  paste;  flour  the  paste  board  and 
place  the  paste  upon  it,  roll  out  to  the  thickness 
of  }^  inch.     It  is  then  ready  for  use. 

Potato  Paste  —  Pound  boiled  potatoes  very 
fine,  and  add,  while  warm,  a  sufficiency  of  butter 
to  make  the  mash  hold  together,  or  you  may  mix 
it  with  an  &gg;  then,  before  it  gets  cold,  flour  the 
board  pretty  well  to  prevent  it  from  sticking,  and 
roll  it  to  the  thickness  wanted.  If  it  has  become 
quite  cold  before  it  be  put  on  the  dish,  it  will  be 
apt  to  crack. 

Cocoanut  Potato  Pie — Three  eggs,  one  large 
potato,  3^  cup  cocoanut,  1  pint  milk,  1  table- 
spoonful  butter,  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  little  salt. 

Boil  and  mash  the  potato  and  add  the  sugar, 
butter  and  salt,  then  the  beaten  eggs,  and  lastly 


202  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

the  milk,  in  which  part  of  the  cocoanut  has  been 
soaked.  Reserve  the  white  of  an  egg  for  frost- 
ing; add  to  it  the  rest  of  the  cocoanut  and  spread 
a  little  red  sugar  over  the  top. 

Cream  Fritters  —  Three  tablespoonfuls  po- 
tato flour,  1  pint  new  milk,  2  whole  eggs,  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  a  pat  of  very  fresh  butter,  powdered 
white  sugar  to  taste,  a  few  drops  essence  of 
almonds,  bread-crumbs. 

Make  a  smooth  paste  with  the  flour  and  a 
part  of  the  milk;  then  gradually  add  the  remain- 
der of  the  milk,  the  eggs  and  yolks,  the  butter, 
white  sugar  to  taste,  and  essence  of  almonds. 
Put  the  mixture  into  a  saucepan  on  the  fire,  stir- 
ring all  the  while  till  it  is  quite  thick.  Spread 
out  on  a  slab  until  of  thickness  of  ^  an  inch. 
When  quite  cold  cut  into  lozenges;  egg  and 
bread-crumb  them,  or  dip  in  the  butter;  fry  a 
nice  color  in  lard  and  serve  sprinkled  with  white 
sugar. 

Cheese  Fritters  —  About  a  pint  of  water,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  the  least  piece 
of  cayenne,  plenty  of  black  pepper,  }^  lb.  ground 
Parmesan  cheese,  yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs,  and  whites 
of  2  beaten  to  a  froth,  salt,  flour. 

Put  the  water  into  a  saucepan  with  the  butter, 
cayenne  and  black  pepper.  When  the  water  boils 
throw  gradually  into  it  sufficient  flour  to  form  a 
thick  paste;  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  work 
into  it  the  Parmesan  cheese,  and  then  the  yolks 
and  whites  of  the  eggs.  Let  the  paste  rest  for  a 
couple  of  hours,  and  proceed  to  fry  by  dropping 
pieces  of  it  the  size  of  a  walnut  into  plenty  of 
hot  lard.     Serve  sprinkled  with  very  fine  salt. 

Puffs  for  Dessert  —  One  pint  milk  and  cream, 
the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  1  heap- 
ing cup  sifted  flour,  1  scant  cup  powdered  sugar; 
add  a  little  grated  lemon  peel  and  a  little  salt. 


Pastry.  203 

Beat  these  all  together  till  very  light,  bake  in 
gem  pans,  sift  pulverized  sugar  over  them  and 
eat  with  sauce  flavored  with  lemon. 

Plain  Puffs  —  Yolks  of  6  eggs,  1  pint  sweet 
milk,  a  large  pinch  of  salt,  whites  of  6  eggs, 
flour. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  till  very  light,  stir 
in  the  milk,  salt,  and  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  flour  enough  to  ijiake  a  batter  about 
as  thick  as  a  boiled  custard.  Bake  in  small  tins 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Banana  Fritters —  Sift  3  cups  flour  and  1^ 
teaspoonfuls  baking-powder;  to  this  add  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  little  salt,  3^  cup  sugar  and 
enough  milk  to  make  a  moderate  batter;  whip 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  then  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter.  Slice  3^  dozen  bananas 
and  stir  into  the  batter;  fry  at  once  in  plenty  of 
boiling  lard,  and  drain  on  coarse  brown  paper 
before  serving. 

Spanish  Puffs  —  A  teacupf ul  water,  a  table- 
spoonful  white  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  oz.  but- 
ter, flour,  yolks  of  4  eggs. 

Put  the  water  into  a  saucepan  with  the  sugar, 
salt  and  butter;  while  it  is  boiling  add  sufficient 
flour  for  it  to  leave  the  saucepan;  stir  one  by  one 
the  yolks  of  the  four  eggs;  drop  in  a  teaspoonful 
at  a  time  into  boiling  lard;  fry  them  a  light 
brown. 

Cream  Puffs  —  One  pint  water,  3^  lb.  butter, 
^  lb.  sifted  flour,  10  eggs,  1  small  teaspoon  soda. 
Mock  cream:  1  cup  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  cup  flour,  1 
quart  milk,  flavoring. 

Boil  the  water,  rub  the  flour  with  the  butter; 
stir  into  the  water  while  boiling.  When  it  thick- 
ens like  starch  remove  from  the  fire.  When  cool 
stir  into  it  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  the  soda. 
Drop  the  mixture  onto  the  buttered  tins  with  a 


204  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

large  spoon.  Bake  till  a  light  brown,  in  a  quick 
oven.  When  done,  open  one  side  and  fill  with 
mock  cream  made  as  follows  in  the  above  pro- 
portions: Beat  eggs  to  a  froth;  stir  in  the  sugar, 
then  flour;  stir  them  into  the  milk  while  boiling; 
stir  till  it  thickens,  then  remove  from  the  fire 
and  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  It  should  not 
be  put  into  the  puffs  until  cold. 

Orange  Puffs— Rind  and  juice  of  4  oranges, 
2  lbs.  sifted  sugar,  butter. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  oranges,  add  the  sugar, 
pound  together  and  make  into  a  stiff  paste  with 
the  butter  and  juice  of  the  fruit;  roll  it,  cut  into 
shapes  and  bake  in  a  cool  oven.  Served  piled 
up  on  a  dish  with  sifted  sugar  over. 

Orange  Fritters  —  Six  large  oranges  peeled 
and  sliced,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter 
about  as  stiff  as  if  for  flannel  cakes;  dip  the 
oranges  into  the  batter,  being  sure  that  they  are 
well  covered  by  it,  then  fry  in  plenty  of  boiling 
lard;  drain  on  coarse  brown  paper,  sift  powdered 
sugar  over  the  fritters  and  serve. 

Apple  Fritters  —  Sift  together  1  cupful  flour, 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  baking- 
powder  and  1  saltspoonful  salt.  Beat  1  egg  very 
light,  and  add  3^  cupful  milk;  pour  this  grad- 
ually into  the  dry  mixture,  beating  well;  add  2 
apples  cut  fine.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  fat 
and  fry;  drain  and  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar.  Pastry  flour  should  be  used  for  fritters, 
as  bread  flour  contains  too  much  gluten.  Bread 
flour  should  be  used  only  when  yeast  is  added. 
The  apples  should  be  cut  fine  or  chopped;  the 
fritters  are  also  very  good  if  the  apples  are  cut 
in  thick  slices,  dipped  in  the  batter,  and  then 
fried. 


Pastry.  205 

Charlotte  Russe  — Soak  }4  box  gelatine  in  ^ 
cup  cold  milk  1  hour;  when  dissolved,  set  up  in 
hot  water,  using  gelatine  lukewarm;  into  1  pint 
whipped  cream  add  3^2  ^^P  pulverized  sugar,  a 
little  salt  and  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  and 
flavor  with  vanilla;  then  add  gelatine  and  strain 
while  pouring  in;  stir  until  gelatine  is  well 
mixed  with  the  cream,  and,  when  nearly  stiff 
enough  to  drop,  turn  into  mould  lined  with  lady- 
fingers  or  narrow  slices  of  sponge  cake,  first  dip- 
ping the  cake  into  white  of  egg. 

Apple  Jelly  —  One  lb.  apples,  1  lemon,  j^  lb. 
lump  sugar,  1  oz.  gelatine,  i^  pint  water  and  a 
little  cochineal. 

Peel  and  core  the  apples,  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  the  sugar,  water,  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  the  lemon;  stew  till  tender,  rub  through  a 
sieve,  then  stir  in  the  gelatine,  previously  melted 
in  a  gill  of  boiling  water.  Color  part  of  the 
apples  with  cochineal,  and  pour  into  a  mould 
with  alternate  layers  of  colored  and  plain  apple. 
May  be  served  with  or  without  whipped  cream. 

Apple  Turnovers  —  One  lb.  flour,  5  oz.  drip- 
ping or  butter,  small  teaspoonful  baking-powder, 
4  apples  (allowing  1  for  each  turnover),  4  tea- 
spoonfuls  brown  sugar. 

Pare,  core  and  slice  the  apples.  Mix  the  bak- 
ing-powder into  the  flour,  then  add  the  dripping 
or  butter,  mixing  well  together.  Moisten  with 
cold  water  and  stir  to  a  paste.  Roll  out;  cut 
into  circles  about  7  inches  in  diameter.  Put 
the  apple  on  one  of  the  rounds  and  sprinkle  with 
sugar.  Moisten  the  edges  of  the  paste  and  shape 
in  the  form  of  a  turnover. 

Snow  Cream — One-half  oz.  gelatine,  1  tumbler 
water,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  34  lb.  loaf  sugar,  and 
2  eggs. 


206  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  half  the  water  for  1  hour, 
and  fill  up  with  the  other  half  boiling;  add  to  it 
the  lemon  jnice  and  sugar.  Whisk  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  well;  put  them  to  the  other  ingredients, 
and  whisk  the  whole  for  }^  of  an  hour.  Put  into 
a  mould  to  set.  With  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and 
nearly  3^  pint  of  milk,  make  a  custard,  sweet- 
ened and  flavored  with  lemon.  Pour  it  round 
the  cream  when  turned  out. 

Lemon  Spongre  —  One  oz.  gelatine,  1  pint 
water,  the  juice  of  3  lemons,  the  thin  rind  of 
2,  ^  lb.  lump  sugar,  and  whites  of  2  eggs. 

Boil  all,  except  the  eggs,  together  for  10  min- 
utes, and  let  it  stand  until  cold  and  beginning  to 
set.  Beat  the  whites  well,  add  them  to  it,  and 
whisk  the  whole  until  it  becomes  a  stiff  froth. 
May  be  put  into  a  mould  or  piled  in  glass  dishes. 

Chocolate  .Blanc  Mange  —  One  qt.  of  rich 
fresh  milk  or  cream,  3  oz.  chocolate,  }^  lb.  white 
sugar,  1  2-oz.  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  3^  pint 
water. 

Boil  milk,  chocolate  and  sugar  together  a  few 
minutes,  after  first  dissolving  the  chocolate  and 
rubbing  it  smooth  in  a  little  of  the  milk.  Then 
add  the  gelatine  and  10  drops  of  vanilla.  Stir 
well  and  remove  from  the  fire  in  about  5  minutes. 
When  lukewarm  pour  through  a  strainer  into 
moulds  that  have  been  previously  dipped  into 
a  bath  of  cold  water. 

Russian  Cream  —  Jelly.  —  To  1  package  Cox's 
gelatine  add  1  pint  cold  water.  When  dissolved 
add  1  pint  hot  water,  2  cups  sugar,  juice  of  6 
lemons.  Stir  slowly  until  well  dissolved,  then 
strain  into  moulds. 

Cream.  —  Cover  1  package  gelatine  with  cold 
water.  When  dissolved  add  1  cup  new  milk,  1 
cup  sugar;  heat  to  boiling  point,  stirring  fre- 
quently, then  set  away  to  cool.     Whip  1  quart  of 


Pastry.  207 

thick  cream  until  light,  beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs, 
and  add  both  to  the  mixture;  when  cool  flavor 
with  vanilla.  Place  the  jelly  in  the  bottom  of 
the  moulds,  and  when  stiff  and  cold  add  the 
cream;  turn  out  of  mould  and  serve  in  slices. 

Flummery  —  Three  large  handfuls  of  small 
white  oatmeal,  1  large  spoonful  of  white  sugar, 
2  large  spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water. 

Put  3  large  handfuls  of  very  small  white  oat- 
meal to  steep  a  day  and  night  in  cold  water; 
then  pour  it  off  clear,  and  add  as  much  more 
water,  and  let  it  stand  the  same  time.  Strain  it 
through  a  fine  hair-sieve,  and  boil  it  till  it  be  as 
thick  as  hasty-pudding,  stirring  it  well  all  the 
time.  When  first  strained,  put  to  it  the  white 
sugar  and  flower  water.  Pour  it  into  shallow 
dishes,  and  serve  to  eat  with  milk  or  cream  and 
sugar. 

Isinglass  Blanc  Mange  —  One  oz.  isinglass, 
1  qt.  water,  whites  of  4  eggs,  2  spoonfuls  rice 
water,  sugar  to  taste,  2  oz.  sweet  and  1  oz.  bitter 
almonds. 

Boil  the  isinglass  in  the  water  till  it  is  reduced 
to  a  pint;  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with 
the  rice  water  to  prevent  the  eggs  poaching,  and 
sugar  to  taste;  run  through  the  jelly-bag;  then 
add  the  almonds;  give  them  a  scald  in  the  jelly, 
and  pour  them  through  a  hair-sieve;  put  in  a 
china  bowl;  the  next  day  turn  it  out,  and  stick 
it  all  over  with  almonds,  blanched  and  cut  length- 
wise.    Garnish  with  green  leaves  or  flowers. 

Orange  Fool  —  Juice  of  3  Seville  oranges,  9 
well-beaten  eggs,  ^  pint  cream,  a  little  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon,  white  sugar  to  taste. 

Mix  the  orange  juice  with  the  eggs,  cream  and 
spices.  Sweeten  to  taste.  The  orange  juice  must 
be  carefully  strained.    Set  the  whole  over  a  slow 


208  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

fire,  and  stir  it  until  it  becomes  about  the  thick- 
ness of  melted  butter;  it  must  on  no  account  be 
allowed  to  boil;  then  pour  into  a  dish  for  eating 
cold. 

Gooseberry  Fool  —  One  quart  gooseberries, 
water,  sugar,  1  quart  cream. 

Pick  1  quart  of  quite  young  gooseberries,  and 
put  them  into  a  jar  with  a  very  little  water  and 
plenty  of  sugar;  put  the  jar  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water  till  the  fruit  be  quite  tender, 
then  beat  it  through  a  colander,  and  add  grad- 
ually 1  quart  of  cream  with  sufficient  sugar  to 
sweeten. 

Stewed  Apples  and  Rice — Some  good  bak- 
ing apples,  syrup,  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  pint  water, 
lemon  peel,  jam,  some  well-boiled  rice. 

Peel  the  apples,  take  out  the  cores  with  a  scoop 
so  as  not  to  injure  the  shape  of  the  apples,  put 
them  in  a  deep  baking-dish,  and  pour  over  them 
a  syrup  made  by  boiling  sugar  in  the  above  pro- 
portion; put  a  little  piece  of  shred  lemon  peel 
inside  each  apple,  and  let  them  bake  very 
slowly  until  soft,  but  not  in  the  least  broken. 
If  the  syrup  is  thin,  boil  it  until  it  is  thick 
enough;  take  out  the  lemon  peel,  and  put  a 
little  jam  inside  each  apple,  and  between  each 
a  little  heap  of  well-boiled  rice;  pour  the  syrup 
gently  over  the  apples,  and  let  it  cover  the  rice. 
This  dish  may  be  served  either  hot  or  cold. 

Spiced  Apples  —  Four  lbs.  apples  (weigh  them 
after  they  are  peeled),  2  lbs.  sugar,  3^^  oz.  cinna- 
mon in  the  stick,  }^  oz.  cloves,  and  1  pt.  vinegar. 

Let  the  vinegar,  spices  and  sugar  come  to  a 
boil;  then  put  in  the  whole  apples,  and  cook 
them  until  they  are  so  tender  that  a  broom-splint 
will  pierce  them  easily.  These  will  keep  for  a  long 
time  in  a  jar.  Put  a  clean  cloth  over  the  top  of 
the  jar  before  putting  the  cover  on. 


Pastry.  209 

Apple  Charlotte — Some  good  cooking  apples, 
sugar  (1  lb.  apple  pulp  to  3^  lb.  sugar),  lemon 
flavoring,  fried  bread. 

Bake  good  cooking  apples  slowly  until  done; 
scrape  out  all  the  pulp  with  a  teaspoon,  put  it 
in  a  stewpan  in  the  above  proportion;  stir  it 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  the  pulp  stifiE. 
Take  care  it  does  not  burn.  Add  a  little  lemon 
flavoring,  and  place  the  apple  in  the  center  of  a 
dish,  arranging  thickly  and  tastefully  around  it 
neatly  cut  pieces  of  the  carefully  fried  bread.  If 
it  is  desired  to  make  this  dish  very  nice,  each 
piece  of  fried  bread  may  be  dipped  in  apricot 
jam.  Rhubarb  charlotte  may  be  made  in  the 
same  manner.  The  rhubarb  must  be  boiled  and 
stirred  until  a  good  deal  of  the  watery  portion 
has  evaporated,  and  then  sugar,  i^  lb.  to  1  lb.  of 
fruit,  being  added,  it  should  be  allowed  to  boil 
until  it  is  thick. 


14 


DBS§§RT. 


Oranges — Oranges  may  be  prepared  for  table 
in  the  following  manner:  Cut  gently  through  the 
peel  only,  from  the  point  of  the  orange  at  the 
top  to  dent  made  at  the  bottom,  dividing  the 
outside  of  orange  into  cloves  or  sections,  seven 
or  eight  in  number.  Loosen  the  peel  carefully, 
and  take  each  section  off,  leaving  it  attached  only 
at  the  bottom.  Scrape  the  white  off  the  orange 
itself,  and  turn  in  each  section  double  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  orange,  so  that  the  whole  looks  like  a 
dahlia  or  some  other  flower. 

Almonds  and  Raisins — Serve  on  a  glass  dish, 
the  raisins  piled  high  in  the  center.  Blanch  the 
almonds  and  strew  over  them. 

Frosted  Currants  —  Froth  the  white  of  an 
egg  or  eggs,  dipping  the  bunches  into  the  mix- 
ture. Drain  until  nearly  dry,  then  roll  in  white 
sugar.     Lay  upon  white  paper  to  dry. 

Impromptu  Dessert  —  Cover  the  bottom  of  a 
large  glass  dish  with  sliced  orange;  strew  over  it 
powdered  sugar,  then  a  thick  layer  of  cocoanut. 
Alternate  orange  and  cocoanut  till  the  dish  is 
full,  heaping  the  cocoanut  on  the  top. 

Dessert  of  Apples — One  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  finely 
flavored  ripe  sour  apples,  1  pint  rich  cream,  2 
eggs,  }4  cup  sugar. 

Make  a  rich  syrup  of  the  sugar;  add  the  apples 
nicely  pared  and  cored.  Stew  till  soft,  then  mix 
smoothly  with  the  syrup  and  pour  all  into  a  mould. 
Stir  into  the  cream  (or  if  there  is  none  at  hand, 
new  milk  must  answer)  the  eggs  well  beaten; 
also  the  sugar,  and  let  it  just  boil  up  in  a  farina 
kettle;  then  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold  take 
the  apples  from  the  mould  and  pour  this  cream 
custard  around  it  and  serve.  If  spice  or  flavor- 
ing is  agreeable,  nutmeg,  vanilla  or  rose  water 
can  be  used. 

210 


Dessert.  211 

Disll  of  Fig:s — One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  water, 
3^  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

Let  the  sugar  and  water  boil  until  it  is  a  pale 
brown  color;  shake  gently  the  basin  in  which  it 
is  boiling,  to  prevent  it  burning,  but  do  not 
stir  it  at  all  until  just  before  you  take  it  from 
the  fire;  then  stir  in  the  cream  of  tartar.  Wash 
and  cut  open  some  figs;  spread  them  on  a  plat- 
ter, then  pour  the  sugar  over  them.  Take  care 
to  have  each  fig  covered;  set  them  in  a  cool  place 
till  the  sugar  has  time  to  harden. 

A  Dish  of  Nuts — Arrange  them  piled  high  in 
the  center  of  a  dish;  a  few  leaves  around  the  edge 
of  the  dish  will  greatly  improve  the  appearance. 
In  dishing  filberts  serve  them  with  the  outer 
skin  on.  If  walnuts,  wipe  with  a  damp  cloth 
before  serving. 


HOME-MADE  CANDIES. 

MEN,  women  and  children — not  to  mention 
dogs  and  horses — like  sugar,  and  the 
taste  is  entirely  defensible.  These 
white  crystals,  this  frost  of  honey,  feed  the 
ever-burning  flame  of  the  body,  supplying 
animal  heat,  which  is  life,  and  rousing  the 
nervous  energies  like  phosphates,  or  better 
than  phosphates  in  some  cases.  I  have  had 
brain-fag  so  entire  that  it  seemed  as  if  I  never 
could  write  or  had  written  a  Hne,  relieved  by 
taking  a  syrupy  small  glass  of  eau  sucree^  when 
shortly  ideas  gathered  and  took  shape  and  the 
blank  brain  resumed  its  work.  I  can't  help 
fancying  that  the  sweets  craved  so  ardently 
by  children  have  much  to  do  with  furnishing 
nerve  aliment  to  their  fast-growing  systems. 
Sugar  contributes  both  animal  heat  and  nervous 
force,  and  seems  to  be  a  transformation  of  the 
elements  of  heat,  as  the  diamond  is  transformed 
carbon. 

In  the  terrible  retreat  ttom  Moscow,  the  few 
of  Napoleon's  army  who  secreted  a  few  pounds 
of  sugar  to  eat  were  enabled  to  support  the  in- 
tense cold.  In  tropic  countries  Europeans 
learned  to  drink  eau  sucree  before  long  walks 
as  a  preventive  of  sunstroke  and  paralysis,  and 
the  French  Algerian  troops  carry  sugar  on  their 
marches  to  enable  them  to  withstand  the  desert 
heat.  Persons  with  spinal  inflammation  and 
paralytic  tendencies  often  have  a  craving  for 
sweets,  which  is  nature  reaching  instinctively 
for  help,  and  indulgence  in  such  cases  is  fol- 
lowed by  improvement. 

212 


Home-Made  Candies.  213 

As  much  pure  sugar  or  sweets  as  can  be  eaten 
without  producing  acidity  is  not  only  safe  but 
beneficial  for  any  one  who  craves  it.  Disturb- 
ance seldom  follows  in  any  ordinary  case  when 
the  sweets  are  perfectly  pure  and  are  taken  at 
proper  times,  not  nibbled  constantly  between 
meals. 

Confectionery  is  one  of  the  perquisites  of 
childhood,  and  as  choice  French  candies  are 
beyond  the  capacity  of  many  a  mother's  purse, 
and  cheap  ones  are  often  made  unwholesome,  if 
not  positively  dangerous,  by  adulteration,  home- 
made candies  have  become  very  popular,  many 
delicious  and  attractive  varieties  being  as  easily 
made  as  any  other  toothsome  dainties.  As  a  pre- 
ventive of  "  graining,"  glucose  (grape  sugar  or 
syrup)  is  much  used  in  the  manufacture  of 
candy.  But  as  it  is  not  always  convenient  to 
procure,  and  often  imparts  a  bitter  flavor,  the 
recipes  here  given  are  for  the  use  of  cream  of 
tartar  instead. 

A  preparation  called  "fondant" — made  by 
removing  boiled  syrup  from  the  fire  just  before 
it  will  harden — is  the  foundation  of  nearly  all 
French  candies,  and  when  once  the  art  of  mak- 
ing this  is  mastered  a  large  variety  of  candies 
are  easily  made. 

Fondant  —  To  1  lb.  sugar  add  }4  pi^*  ^^^Id 
water  and  3^  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  and 
boil  rapidly  for  10  minutes  without  stirring. 
Dip  the  fingers  into  ice  water,  drop  a  little  of 
the  syrup  into  cold  water,  then  roll  it  between 
the  fingers,  and  if  it  forms  a  soft,  creamy  ball 
that  doesn't  adhere  it  is  done.  If  not  hard  enough 
boil  a  little  longer,  and  if  too  hard  add  a  little 


214  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

water,  boil  up  and  test  again.  Set  aside  in  the 
kettle  to  become  lukewarm,  then  stir  the  mass 
with  a  ladle  until  it  is  white  and  dry  at  the  edge. 
It  should  then  be  taken  out  and  kneaded,  exactly 
as  one  would  knead  bread  dough,  until  it  is  creamy 
and  soft.  By  covering  with  a  damp  cloth  and 
keeping  in  a  cool  place  it  will  keep  well  for 
several  days,  and  several  times  this  amount  may 
be  made  at  one  time.  In  making  several  pounds 
it  is  better  to  divide  the  mass  before  kneading, 
and  each  part  may  be  flavored  differently. 

Chocolate  Creams — Dust  the  moulding-board 
with  as  little  flour  as  possible  and  roll  a  piece  of 
fondant  into  a  cylindrical  shape.  Cut  it  into  reg- 
ular-shaped pieces,  roll  between  the  palms  of  the 
hands  until  round,  lay  on  paraffine  paper  and  let 
harden  until  the  next  day.  Melt  a  cake  of  choco- 
late in  a  rather  deep  vessel  that  has  been  set  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water;  add  a  piece  of  paraffine  half 
as  large  as  a  walnut,  the  same  amount  of  butter, 
and  }^  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Roll  the  cream  in 
this,  by  using  a  steel  fork  or  crochet  needle, 
and  place  again  on  paraffine  paper. 

iVut  Rolls  —  Take  equal  parts  of  walnut,  but- 
ternut, or  whatever  variety  of  nut  meats  you 
prefer,  and  fondant,  mix  well,  and  form  into  a 
roll.  Cover  this  with  plain  fondant,  roil  in  gran- 
ulated sugar  and  let  harden  until  next  day,  then 
slice  crosswise. 

Molasses  Nut  Balls  and  Bars  —  Boil  2  cup- 
fuls  brown  sugar,  1  of  New  Orleans  molasses, 
and  }4,  cup  water  until  it  will  snap  when  tested 
in  cold  water.  Take  from  the  stove,  add  2  cup- 
fuls  chopped  walnut  meats,  stir  until  nearly  cold, 
and  then  roll  into  balls  between  the  palms  of  the 
hand;  wrap  in  paraffine  paper. 

For  walnut  or  peanut  bars  boil  together  a  cup- 
ful of  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  of  brown  sugar, 


Home-Made  Candies.  215 

and  half  a  cup  of  water.  When  it  stands  the 
test  of  water  add  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  vinegar.  When  it  boils  up  remove  from  the 
fire,  add  3  teacupfuls  peanut  or  walnut  meats, 
pour  into  buttered  shallow  pans,  smooth  the 
top,  and  when  nearly  cold  cut  in  bars  or  squares 
with  a  buttered  knife. 

Cocoanut  bars  are  made  in  the  same  way, 
using  fresh  cocoanut  that  has  been  dried  out  2 
hours  after  being  grated,  or  shredded  cocoanut. 

Crystallizing-  Syrup  —  Any  variety  of  bon- 
bons made  with  fondant  may  be  crystallized  to 
make  another  attractive  variety  by  the  following 
process:  Boil  1^^  lbs.  sugar  and  %  pint  water 
until  it  forms  a  thread  that  will  snap  easily. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  nearly  cold 
sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  water  on  the  top 
to  dissolve  the  film.  Have  the  candies  in  a  shal- 
low pan,  pour  the  syrup  carefully  over,  touching 
each  part;  cover  with  a  dainty  cloth,  resting  on 
the  syrup  to  prevent  the  formation  of  a  crust. 
After  standing  6  hours,  with  a  hat  pin  remove 
the  candies,  place  on  paraffine  paper,  spread  a 
damp  cloth  over,  and  leave  until  dry. 

Jelly  Rolls  —  Roll  out  evenly  a  piece  of  plain 
fondant,  spread  with  any  variety  of  fruit  jelly  or 
marmalade  preferred,  and  when  hard  cut  into 
slices  and  crystallize  as  above. 

Chocolate  Caramels— Half  lb.  Baker's  choco- 
late, 3  lbs.  sugar,  half  granulated  and  half 
brown,  the  latter  not  too  moist,  ^  lb.  butter,  1 
small  cup  milk. 

Mix  the  ingredients  and  boil  until  it  hardens 
in  cold  water,  which  should  be  about  20  minutes. 
Stir  all  the  time  if  you  wish  the  caramels  to  be 
"  crumbly." 

Cocoanut  Bon-bons  —  To  the  white  of  one 
egg  and  an  equal  quantity  of  water  add  enough 


216  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

pulverized  sugar  and  grated  cocoanut  to  enable 
you  to  make  into  balls;  lay  the  balls  on  greased 
plates.  Take  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  of  water 
and  boil  until  it  creams,  then  add  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  vanilla  or  rose  water;  set  the  dish  contain- 
ing this  mixture  on  another  containing  boiling 
water,  so  it  will  not  get  too  hard;  then  roll  the 
balls  in  it  as  yon  would  chocolate  creams,  and 
lay  on  greased  plates  to  harden. 

Almond  Taffy  —  Boil  together  %  pint  wa- 
ter and  1  lb.  brown  sugar  for  10  minutes. 
Blanch  and  slice  through  the  middle  1}/^  oz. 
almonds;  stir  them  in  the  syrup  with  2  oz.  of 
butter.  Let  the  mixture  boil  hard  for  10  min- 
utes.    Pour  on  a  well-buttered  dish  to  the  thick- 


Everton  Taffy — Put  a  pound  of  brown  sugar 
in  a  buttered  pan,  together  with  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  water.  Let  it  boil  until  it  becomes  a  smooth, 
thick  syrup.  Add  ^  pound  of  butter,  stirring 
well.  Let  this  boil  ^  hour;  add  lemon  fla- 
voring. 

Butterscotch  — Use  3  cupf uls  of  New  Orleans 
molasses,  2  cupfuls  granulated  sugar,  ^  cupful 
butter,  and  a  very  little  water.  Cook  quickly 
about  20  minutes.  Try  a  little  in  cold  water,  to 
see  when  it  becomes  crisp.  Just  before  taking 
up  add  %  teaspoonful  baking-soda  well  mashed 
and  smooth.  Pour  into  buttered  tins  and  cut 
as  soon  as  it  becomes  perfectly  cool. 

Sug'ar  Candy — Put  in  a  shallow  pan  3  cupfuls 
granulated  sugar,  3^  cupful  water,  ^  cupful 
vinegar,  and  at  the  last,  i^  tablespoonful  butter, 
with  }y^  teaspoonful  cooking-soda,  dissolved  in 
hot  water.  Cook  quickly,  without  stirring,  for  1 
hour,  or  until  it  crisps  in  cold  water.     Pull  while 


Home-Made  Candies.  217 

qnite  hot  with  buttered  finger  tips,  and  continue 
pulling  until  the  candy  is  white.  Chop  into 
small  pieces. 

Candied  Fruit  —  Boil  1  cupful  granulated 
sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls  water,  2  tablespoonfuls 
vinegar  and  ^  spoonful  soda.  Avoid  stirring. 
When  the  mixture  is  boiled  to  a  syrup,  dip  into 
it  cherries,  grapes,  pine-apple,  oranges,  pears, 
etc.  When  well  dipped  place  the  fruit  on  paraf- 
fine  paper  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  dry. 
Chestnuts  and  filberts  thus  candied  are  delicious. 

Hoarliound  Candy  —  Hoarhound  candy  is  a 
favorite  cough  remedy.  To  1  quart  of  water  add 
a  small  handful  of  hoarhound  herb,  and  boil  }4 
hour.  Strain,  pressing  all  the  liquid  from  the 
herbs.  Add  3  lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  and  boil  to 
the  "  hard  crack."  Put  in  a  piece  of  butter  as 
large  as  a  walnut.  When  the  butter  is  dissolved, 
pour  the  mass  on  a  greased  platter  or  marble 
slab.    When  almost  cold,  square  off  with  a  knife. 

Molasses  Taify — Boil  together  2  cupfuls  of 
brown  sugar,  1  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  ^  cup- 
ful of  water,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar; 
when  crisp,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  stir  1 
minute,  then  remove  from  the  fire,  add  3^  tea- 
spoonful  soda;  when  nearly  cold  pull  until  a 
beautiful  golden  color. 

French  Almond  Rock  — Put  1  lb.  of  loaf- 
sugar  and  a  teacupf  ul  of  water  into  a  saucepan, 
stir  it  until  the  sugar  is  melted,  take  off  the  scum 
that  comes  to  the  top,  and  when  boiled  for  ^ 
hour  add  1  tablespoonful  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 
Stir  in  sliced  almonds  to  taste,  pour  out  on  a 
well-buttered  tin  and  cut  into  slices. 

Lemon  Candy  —  Into  a  bright  tinned  kettle 
put  3}4  lbs.  of  sugar,  Ij^  pints  of  water,  and  a 
full  tablespoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.   Place  over 


218  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

a  hot  fire  and  stir  -antil  the  lumps  disappear. 
Boil  briskly  until  the  candy  is  hard  and  brittle 
when  a  little  is  thrown  into  cold  water.  Take 
the  candy  from  the  fire  and  pour  it  on  a  large 
platter,  greased  with  a  little  butter.  When  cooled 
sufficiently  to  be  handled,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
finely  powdered  tartaric  acid,  and  the  same 
quantity  of  extract  of  lemon,  and  work  them  into 
the  mass.  The  acid  should  be  fine  and  free  from 
lumps.  The  mass  must  be  worked  enough  to 
distribute  the  acid  and  lemon  extract  evenly,  but 
no  more,  as  too  much  handling  destroys  its 
transparency.  It  may  now  be  formed  into  sticks 
or  drops,  or  spread  out  flat  on  tins  in  thin 
sheets. 

Molasses  Caudy  —  Dissolve  1  cupful  of  sugar 
in  }/2  cupful  of  vinegar,  mix  with  1  quart  of 
molasses,  and  boil,  stirring  often,  until  it  hardens 
when  dropped  from  a  spoon  into  cold  water; 
then  stir  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
and  1  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  the  latter  dis- 
solved in  hot  water.  Flavor  to  your  taste,  give 
a  hard  final  stir,  and  pour  into  buttered  dishes. 
As  it  cools,  cut  into  squares  for  "  taffy,"  or,  while 
soft  enough  to  handle,  pull  white  into  sticks, 
using  only  the  buttered  tips  of  your  fingers  for 
that  purpose. 

"Old-Fashioned"  Molasses  Candy  —  Into  a 
kettle  holding  4  times  the  amount  of  molasses  to 
be  used,  pour  a  convenient  quantity  of  good 
New  Orleans  molasses.  Boil  over  a  slow  fire  half 
an  hour,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  taking  off  the 
kettle  if  there  is  any  danger  of  the  contents 
running  over.  Do  not  let  the  candy  burn.  When 
a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  becomes  quickly 
hard  and  brittle,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  carbonate 
of  soda,  free  from  lumps,  to  every  2  quarts,  stir 
quickly  to  mix,  and  pour  on  greased  platters  to 


Home-Made  Candies,  219 

cool.  When  suflQciently  cool,  pull  back  and 
forth,  the  hands  being  rubbed  with  butter  to 
prevent  the  candy  from  sticking  to  them,  until 
the  candy  is  of  a  bright  yellowish  brown  color. 
If  you  wish,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

Cocoaimt  Kisses  —  Beat  together  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  with  as  much  granulated  sugar  as  they 
will  take  up,  making  a  rather  stiff  batter.  Add  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon  extract. 
When  beaten  perfectly  smooth,  add  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  which  should  be  fresh  and  carefully  pre- 
pared. Stir  in  the  cocoanut,  beating  for  some 
minutes.  Then  drop  the  prepared  confection 
upon  buttered  tins  and  place  them  in  a  current 
of  air  to  dry.  Many  confectioners  put  them  at 
once  in  the  oven;  but  they  sometimes  spread  out 
if  the  heat  is  applied  too  soon.  They  may 
remain  in  the  oven  until  slightly  brown,  or  may 
merely  be  allowed  to  heat  through  and  dry. 

Mrs.  Senator  Cullom's  Candy — Mix  to- 
gether the  whites  of  2  eggs,  an  equal  quantity  of 
cold  water,  and  enough  confectioners'  sugar  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  It  will  require  about  2  lbs. 
To  prepare  fruits  and  nuts,  take  seeds  out  of 
dates  and  fill  with  the  cream;  blanch  almonds 
and  cover  with  cream.  Candied  cherries  are 
nice,  taking  little  balls  of  the  cream  and  putting 
a  cherry  on  each.  English  walnuts  are  used  in 
the  same  way  as  cherries. 

Marslmiallows  —  Dissolve  1  lb.  clear  white 
gum-arabic  in  1  quart  water;  strain,  add  1  lb. 
refined  sugar,  place  on  fire.  Stir  continually 
until  sugar  is  dissolved  and  the  mixture  becomes 
of  the  consistency  of  honey.  Next  add  gradually 
the  beaten  whites  of  8  eggs;  stir  the  mixture  all 
the  time  until  it  thickens  and  does  not  adhere  to 


220  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

the  finger,  pour  into  a  tin  slightly  dusted  with 
starch,  and  when  cool  divide  with  a  sharp  knife. 

Peppermint  Drops  —  The  peppermint  and 
wintergreen  drops  which  follow  the  ice  cream 
course  to  prevent  possible  disturbance  from 
chilling  with  the  frozen  dainties  are  made  of 
pure  sugar  with  half  the  quantity  of  arrowroot 
used  for  the  cream  drops,  and  essence  of  winter- 
green  or  mint  to  taste,  rolled  on  a  marble  slab 
and  cut  oat  in  disks  the  size  of  a  quarter  dollar. 
Confectionery  is  a  pretty  art  for  ladies  and  a 
very  convenient  one  where  there  are  children 
with  the  traditional  sweet  tooth.  And  what  adds 
more  repute  to  a  hostess'  table  than  that  it  is 
furnished  with  tempting  fresh  bonbons  of  her 
own  making  ? 

Harmless  Colorings  for  Candies — Vegetable 
colorings  are  always  to  be  used,  the  juice  of 
blood  beet  for  deepest  red,  cranberry  juice  ting- 
ing a  delicate  pink,  and  cochineal — the  sole  ex- 
ception— giving  a  lovely  rose.  In  coloring  yel- 
low, carrot  juice  or  a  very  little  yolk  of  egg 
answers  better  than  gamboge.  Spinach  furnishes 
the  best  green,  and  is  prepared  by  cutting  fresh 
spinach  into  very  small  pieces  and  expressing 
the  juice,,  A  quarter  oz.  cochineal  will  color 
confectionery  for  a  lifetime,  and  should  be  kept 
in  a  bottle  closely  corked.  One  bug  is  used  at  a 
time,  pounding  it  and  pouring  on  2  or  3  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  after  which  the  liquid 
is  bottled  and  will  keep  three  months,  only  a 
drop  or  two  being  needed  for  any  common 
quantity  of  confectionery  or  frosting.  Blue  is 
rarely  used,  and  the  drop  of  indigo  needed  will 
not  hurt  any  one.  The  petals  of  yellow  roses, 
infused  in  boiling  water,  yield  a  delicate  dye 
which  is  charming  with  old-fashioned  rosewater 
desserts. 


ICB  6REAM,  IGB§,  Btc. 

Frozen  Custard  —  One  quart  rich  milk,  1 
large  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  yolks  of  6 
eggs,  13^  teaspoonfuls  almond  flavoring,  1  cup 
cream. 

Let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil;  beat  the  sugar, 
salt  and  eggs  together,  and  add  the  milk,  a  few 
drops  at  a  time;  return  to  the  double  boiler  and 
cook  5  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Set  away 
to  get  cold,  and  freeze. 

Grape  Sherbet  —  One  quart  grape  juice,  ob- 
tained by  boiling  the  grapes  half  an  hour  and 
straining  through  a  jelly  bag,  juice  of  8  good- 
sized  oranges,  1%  cups  sugar. 

Mix  the  orange  and  grape  juice,  strain  and 
pour  into  your  freezer.  Freeze  for  5  minutes, 
pour  out  and  add  the  whites  of  2  well-beaten 
eggs;  return  to  the  freezer  and  freeze  for  20  min- 
utes. Remove  the  dasher  and  pack  away  for  an 
hour,  then  serve. 

Peach  Ice  Cream — Two  quarts  ripe  peaches, 
1  cup  sugar,  mix  well  and  set  away  in  a  covered 
dish.  Take  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  of  cream; 
let  them  come  to  a  boil,  mix  together  1  cup 
sugar,  2  scant  tablespoonfuls  flour  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  beat  the  eggs  well,  mix  all;  then 
add  the  boiling  milk  and  cream.  Return  to  your 
kettle  and  boil  gently  20  minutes,  stirring  often 
to  prevent  sticking.  When  quite  cold  stir  in  the 
peaches,  which  must  be  mashed  fine,  and  freeze. 

Lemon  Water  Ice  —  Half  a  box  of  gelatine, 
dissolved  in  1  pint  cold  water.  Take  the  juice 
of  8  lemons  and  mix  with  ly^  lbs.  white  sugar, 
then  pour  1  quart  of  hot  water  on  the  sugar  and 
lemons;  pour  1%  pints  of  boiling  water  over 
the  gelatine,  and  when  it  is  quite  dissolved  add 
to  the  rest  of  the  ingredients.     Strain  and  set 

221 


222  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

away  to  cool;  when   cold  whip  15  minutes,  and 
freeze. 

Caramel  Ice  Cream  —  Burnt  sugar  ice  cream 
is  a  favorite  dish  in  Virginia,  and  it  is  often  called 
caramel  cream  on  account  of  its  peculiar  color, 
though  it  requires  neither  chocolate  nor  vanilla. 
It  is  made  by  pouring  boiled  custard,  a  little  at  a 
time,  over  a  frying-pan  in  which  brown  sugar 
has  been  burned  until  it  is  a  dark  brown  color. 
Keep  on  adding  the  custard,  stirring  all  the  time 
until  the  whole  is  smooth  and  the  pan  is  full, 
then  pour  the  contents  back  into  the  main  bowl 
of  custard,  which  should  be  the  color  of  strong 
coffee  when  it  is  all  mixed.  The  art  in  making 
this  cream  is  in  burning  the  sugar  until  it  is 
exactly  right.  If  this  is  properly  prepared  you 
have  only  to  freeze  it  like  any  other  custard.  For 
1  gallon  it  requires  1  gallon  of  milk,  2  cups  of 
white  sugar,  the  yolks  of  16  eggs,  and  2  cups  of 
brown  sugar  well  burned. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  —  Six  tablespoonfuls 
grated  chocolate,  2  breakfast  cups  cream,  1  of 
fresh  milk,  )4,  lt>-  sugar. 

Stir  the  chocolate  into  the  milk,  mixing  well, 
add  remaining  ingredients  and  freeze. 

Fruit  Cream — One  and  one- quarter  lbs.  of 
any  kind  of  preserved  fruit,  1  quart  cream,  juice 
of  2  lemons,  sugar  to  taste. 

Take  the  whole  of  the  ingredients,  and  work 
through  a  sieve.  Then  freeze  in  a  freezing-can, 
and  work  until  it  is  frozen.  Then  turn  out  and 
serve. 

Ice  Cream  —  One  quart  milk,  2  eggs,  %  lb. 
sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch  or  arrowroot, 
1  qt.  cream. 

Scald  the  milk,  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  and  corn- 
starch or  arrowroot,  until  it  is  of  the  consistency 
of  custard.     Then  allow  to  cool.     When  cool  add 


Ice  Cream,  Ices,  Etc.  223 

the  cream  whipped,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
whisked  to  a  stiff  froth.  Sweeten  to  taste,  flavor, 
and  freeze  in  the  usnal  way. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream —  Beat  the  yolks  of  8  eggs 
with  ^  of  a  pound  of  sugar  until  very  light.  Put 
13^  pints  of  rich  milk  on  the  fire  to  scald,  highly 
flavored  with  vanilla.  When  the  milk  is  scalded, 
stir  it  into  the  egg  as  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough 
not  to  curdle.  Now  stir  the  mixture  constantly 
until  it  has  slightly  thickened.  Do  not  let  it 
remain  too  long  and  curdle,  or  it  will  be  spoiled. 
When  taken  off  the  fire  again,  mix  in  3^  box  of 
gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  3^  hour  in  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  lukewarm  water  near  the  fire. 
The  heat  of  the  custard  will  be  sufficient  to  dis- 
solve it  if  it  is  not  already  dissolved.  Cool  the 
custard  well  before  putting  it  into  the  freezer, 
however;  stir  it  almost  constantly  until  it  begins 
to  set;  then  stir  in  lightly  a  pint  of  cream, 
whipped.  Stir  it  for  2  or  3  minutes  longer,  put 
it  into  a  mould,  and  return  it  to  a  second  relay  of 
ice  and  salt. 

Strawl)erry  Water  Ice  — Boil  1  pint  of  water 
and  3  teacupfuls  of  granulated  sugar  for  about 
10  minutes,  skimming  carefully.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  allow  it  to  grow  cold,  then  add  2 
pints  of  strawberry  juice.  Many  people  think 
the  flavor  is  improved  by  adding  a  little  currant 
juice.  Beat  the  mixture  well  together  and  freeze. 
Red  raspberry  ice  made  in  the  same  way  is  also 
excellent. 

Orange  Water  Ice  —  Rub  sugar  on  the  peel 
of  2  oranges  and  1  lemon.  Squeeze  and  strain 
the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  6  oranges.  Dissolve 
the  flavored  sugar  with  a  little  hot  water,  and 
mix  with  }/£  pint  of  syrup.  If  too  sweet,  add  a 
little  water.  Strain  into  the  freezing-pot,  and 
finish  as  lemon  water  ice. 


224  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Crystal  Palace  Cream — A  rich  custard,  }^ 
oz.  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water,  2 
sponge  cakes,  2  macaroons,  2  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

Make  the  custard,  dissolve  the  gelatine,  and 
when  it  is  nearly  cold  pour  into  the  custard, 
which  must  also  be  cool;  soak  the  cakes  and 
macaroons  in  the  milk  (or,  if  pref erredj  any  fruit 
syrup,  which  must  be  rich  and  sweet).  Put  the 
cakes  into  a  mould  and  gently  pour  the  cream 
over  them ;  let  it  stand  till  cold.  A  few  glac^ 
cherries  may  be  added. 

Lemon  Cream  —  One  pint  of  thick  cream, 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  4  oz.  fine  sugar,  rind  of  1  lemon 
cut  thinly,  juice  of  the  lemon. 

Well  beat  the  yolks  and  add  to  the  cream, 
sugar  and  rind  of  the  lemon;  boil,  and  then  stir 
it  till  almost  cold;  put  the  juice  of  a  lemon  into 
a  dish  and  pour  the  cream  upon  it,  stirring  until 
quite  cold. 

Lemon  Cream,  Solid  —  Half  a  pint  of  cream, 
the  juice  of  3  lemons  and  the  rind  of  2,  ^  lb. 
loaf-sugar  in  small  lumps. 

Rub  the  sugar  on  the  lemons,  and  lay  them  at 
the  bottom  of  the  dish,  pour  the  lemon- juice 
over,  make  the  cream  a  little  warm;  then,  stand- 
ing on  a  chair  and  with  the  dish  on  the  ground, 
pour  the  cream  on  so  as  to  froth  it. 

Lemon  Cream  (without  cream)  — Four  lem- 
ons, 12  tablespoonfuls  water,  7  oz.  powdered  white 
sugar,  yolks  of  9  eggs. 

Peel  the  lemons  very  thinly  into  the  above 
proportion  of  water,  then  squeeze  the  juice 
into  the  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  thoroughly  and 
add  the  peel  and  juice  together,  beating  for  some 
time.  Then  strain  into  your  saucepan,  set  over 
a  gentle  fire  and  stir  one  way  till  thick  and  scald- 
ing hot.  Do  not  let  it  boil  or  it  will  curdle.  Serve 
in  jelly  glasses. 


225  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Cherry  Cream  —  Take  2  qts.  cherries,  heaping 
quarts,  and  bruise  them  without  removing  the 
pits,  throw  over  them  %  cupful  sugar  and  let 
them  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  2  hours.  Then 
strain.  Sweeten  the  juice  after  straining,  beat  a 
pint  of  cream,  gradually  add  the  juice  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  continually  whisking 
it  till  no  more  froth  arises.  The  secret  of  suc- 
cess is  to  have  cream  and  eggs  all  thoroughly 
chilled  on  ice,  and  in  adding  the  juice  a  little  at 
a  time  to  prevent  curdling. 

Nesselrode  Pudding" — Make  a  custard  with 
1  pint  milk,  8  tablespoonfuls  sifted  sugar,  and 
yolks  of  7  eggs  (or  use  3^  pint  milk  and  3^  pint 
cream) ;  let  the  milk  come  to  the  boil,  then  mix  it 
with  the  other  ingredients;  after  stirring  for  some 
time  put  the  mixture  in  a  pan  over  the  fire  and 
go  on  stirring  till  it  thickens,  but  it  must  not 
boil,  or  it  will  curdle;  strain  and  flavor  it  with 
vanilla  or  any  other  flavor.  Divide  the  custard 
in  two  separate  basins;  flavor  and  color  the  one  to 
taste,  partly  freeze  it,  and  add  a  small  tumblerful 
of  whipped  cream,  slightly  sweetened  with  pow- 
dered sugar.  Meantime  brown,  in  3^  oz.  fresh 
butter,  4  oz.  blanched  almonds  and  1  oz.  sifted 
sugar;  pound  this  quite  smooth,  mix  with  the 
other  half  of  the  custard,  strain  and  freeze. 
Mold  the  two  ices  in  layers  and  freeze  for  2  hours. 

Tutti  Frutti  —  When  a  rich  cream  is  partly 
frozen,  candied  cherries,  English  currants, 
chopped  raisins,  or  any  other  candied  fruits, 
chopped  rather  fine,  are  added;  add  about  the 
same  quantity  of  fruit  as  there  is  of  ice-cream. 
Mould  and  imbed  in  ice  and  salt.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream — Sprinkle  sugar  over 
the  strawberries,  mash  them  well  and  rub  them 
through  a  sieve.    To  a  pint  of  the  juice  add  a 

15 


226  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

pint  of  good  cream.  Make  it  very  sweet.  Freeze 
it  in  the  usual  way,  and,  when  beginning  to  set, 
stir  in  lightly  1  pint  cream,  whipped,  and  lastly 
a  handful  of  whole  strawberries,  sweetened.  Put 
it  into  a  mould  which  is"  imbedded  in  ice.  Or, 
when  fresh  strawberries  can  not  be  obtained, 
there  is  no  more  delicious  cream  than  that  made 
with  the  French  bottled  strawberries.  Mix  the 
juice  in  the  bottle  with  the  cream,  and  add  the 
whipped  cream  and  the  whole  strawberries  when 
the  juice,  etc.,  have  partly  set  in  the  freezer. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream  —  Make  a  plain  vanilla 
ice  cream  and  when  partially  frozen  stir  in  ^^ 
can  grated  pineapple.  Mix  well  and  complete 
the  freezing.  The  remainder  of  the  pineapple 
may  be  converted  into  a  most  delicious  trifle. 

Pineapple  Trifle  —  Line  a  pretty  dish  with 
stale  sponge  cake  and  spread  upon  it  the  grated 
pineapple.  Whip  1  pint  sweet  cream,  sweeten 
and  flavor  with  vanilla;  stir  in  1-5  box  Nelson's 
gelatine  which  has  been  previously  soaked  in  }^ 
cup  cold  water,  then  dissolved  by  adding  }^  cup- 
ful boiling  water.  Pour  this  over  the  cake  and 
set  on  ice  to  stiffen. 

(xrape  Sherbet  —  Lay  a  square  of  cheese-cloth 
over  a  bowl;  put  in  a  pound  of  ripe  grapes; 
mash  very  thoroughly  with  a  wooden  masher; 
squeeze  out  all  the  juice;  add  an  equal  amount 
of  cold  water,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  sugar 
enough  to  make  it  very  sweet.     Freeze  as  usual. 

Currant  Ice  —  Boil  l  quart  of  water  and  a 
pound  of  sugar  until  reduced  to  a  pint,  skim  it, 
take  it  off  the  fire,  add  a  pint  of  currant  juice; 
when  partly  frozen,  stir  in  the  whites  of  4  eggs. 
Mould,  and  freeze  again.  A  good  ice  for  fever 
patients. 


Ice  Cream,  Ices,  Etc.  227 

Lemon  Sherbet — Soak  1  teaspoonful  gela- 
tine in  3^  cup  cold  water,  and  dissolve  with  ^ 
cup  boiling  water.  Add  the  juice  of  6  lemons,  1 
pint  sugar,  and  3^2  ciips  water.  Strain  and 
freeze.  If  the  lemons  have  become  dry  by  being 
kept  in  the  house,  let  them  soak  in  cold  water 
for  a  little  time.  A  good  way  is  to  pour  boiling 
water  over  the  fruit,  and  then  drop  into  cold 
water.  This  would  destroy  any  insects  which 
might  be  in  the  peel.  Lemons  may  be  kept  in 
sour  milk  with  good  result.  The  gelatine  is  not 
used  for  nutriment,  but  to  give  a  better  consist- 
ency to  the  sherbet.  If  it  is  not  convenient  to 
use  a  freezer,  the  sherbet  may  be  frozen  in  a 
pail.  Put  the  lemon  mixture  in  the  pail  and 
pack  into  a  pail  of  ice  and  rock  salt,  using  half 
salt  and  half  finely-cracked  ice  in  alternate 
layers.  When  it  becomes  hardened,  scrape  the 
sherbet  from  the  side  of  the  pail,  and  beat  with  a 
Dover  egg-beater.  Pack  down  again,  and  keep 
closely  covered  until  ready  to  serve.  If  the 
sherbet  is  to  be  frozen  in  an  ice  cream  freezer, 
use  two-thirds  of  ice  and  one-third  of  rock  salt, 
in  alternate  layers.  Turn  the  crank  very  slowly, 
as  the  slower  it  is  turned  the  faster  the  cream  is 
frozen  and  the  smoother  it  is.  If  the  crank  is 
turned  rapidly,  the  liquid  is  stirred  about  so  that 
it  does  not  come  in  contact  with  the  sides  of  the 
can  long  enough  to  freeze. 

Peaches  and  Cream  Frozen  —  Peel  and 
quarter  the  fresh  peaches;  mix  them  with  sugar 
and  cream  to  taste.  Arrange  some  of  the  quarters 
of  the  peaches  tastefully  in  the  bottom  of  a 
basin,  then  fill,  and  freeze  the  mass  solid,  without 
stirring.     Turn  it  out  to  serve. 

Iced  Pudding" — One  and  one-half  pints  of 
custard,  composed  of  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  flavoring  of  vanilla,  8  oz. 


228  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

fruits,  consisting  of  equal  parts  of  dried  cherries, 
pine-apple,  dried  pears,  or  apricots,  all  cut  into 
very  small  pieces.  These  fruits  may  be  selected, 
or  perhaps  it  would  be  more  convenient  to  pur- 
chase 3^  lb.  of  the  French  preserved  dried  fruits; 
or  add  1  oz.  candied  citron  sliced,  2  oz.  currants, 
2  oz.  stoned  and  chopped  raisins,  and  3^  pint 
cream  whipped.  Freeze  the  custard  in  the  usual 
manner,  then  mix  in  the  fruits  and  whipped 
cream.  Put  into  a  mould,  and  place  it  on  ice 
and  salt.    Serve  whipped  cream  around  it. 

Frozen  Custard  with  Fruit  —  Two  pints 
milk,  same  of  cream,  6  eggs,  3  teacups  sugar,  1 
pint  berries,  or  peaches  cut  up  small. 

Let  the  milk  nearly  boil;  beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  with  the  sugar  and  add  the  milk  by  degrees. 
Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth  and  add 
to  the  mixture;  put  all  in  a  saucepan,  stirring 
until  it  is  a  nice  thick  and  smooth  custard.  When 
perfectly  cold  whisk  in  the  cream  and  freeze.  If 
the  custard  is  allowed  to  freeze  itself,  stir  in  the 
fruit  after  the  second  beating. 

Custard  — One  and  a  half  quarts  rich  milk,  1 
cup  sugar,  }/£  box  gelatine,  4  eggs,  vanilla  to 
taste. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  tha  milk;  add  the 
yolks  and  sugar;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then 
remove  from  the  fire.  When  cool,  add  whites  of 
eggs,  etc.  Pour  into  mould.  To  be  eaten  with 
cream,  if  preferred. 

Chocolate  Custard  —  One  quart  milk,  yolks 
of  6  eggs,  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  ^  cup  grated 
vanilla  chocolate. 

Boil  the  ingredients  until  thick  enough,  stirring 
all  the  time.  When  nearly  cold  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Pour  into  cups,  and  put  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  beaten  with  some  powdered  sugar  on 
top. 


PRESERVES. 

FBUIT  for  preserving  must  be  gathered  in 
dry  weather,  and  should  be  carefully 
selected,  discarding  all  bruised  fruit,  and 
purchasing  only  that  of  the  largest  and  finest 
quality.  Use  only  the  best  white  sugar.  There 
is  no  economy  in  using  common  sugar,  because 
it  causes  a  greater  amount  of  scum,  which  must 
of  course  be  taken  off.  In  making  syrups  the 
sugar  must  be  pounded  and  dissolved  in  the 
syrup  before  setting  on  the  fire;  no  syrups  or 
jellies  should  be  boiled  too  high.  Fruits  must 
not  be  put  into  a  thick  syrup  at  first.  Fruits 
preserved  whole  or  sliced  may  be  boiled  in  a 
syrup  made  of  two  pounds  of  sugar  to  every 
pound  of  water,  the  quantity  of  syrup  differing 
in  some  cases,  but  the  general  rule  is  one  and  a 
half  the  substance  of  fruit.  The  following  has 
been  found  very  good :  To  clarify  six  pounds  of 
sugar,  put  into  a  preserving-pan,  and  pour  into 
it  five  pints  of  cold  spring  water;  in  another 
pint  beat  lightly  up  the  white  of  one  small  egg, 
but  do  not  froth  it  very  much ;  add  it  to  the 
sugar,  and  give  it  a  stir  to  mix  it  well  with  the 
whole.  Set  the  pan  over  a  gentle  fire  when  the 
sugar  is  nearly  dissolved,  and  let  the  scum  rise 
without  being  disturbed;  when  the  syrup  has 
boiled  five  minutes  take  it  from  the  fire,  let  it 
stand  a  couple  of  minutes,  and  then  skim  it 
very  clean;  let  it  boil  again,  then  throw  in  half 
a  cup  of  cold  water,  which  will  bring  the 
remainder  of  the  scum  to  the  surface;  skim  it 
until  it  is  perfectly  clear,  strain  it  through  a 
thin  cloth,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use,  or  for 
further  boiling. 

229 


230  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

All  unripe  fruit  must  be  rendered  quite  tender 
by  gentle  scalding,  before  it  is  put  into  syrup, 
or  it  will  not  imbibe  the  sugar;  and  the  syrup 
must  be  thin  when  it  is  first  added  to  it,  and  be 
thickened  afterwards  by  frequent  boiling,  or 
with  additional  sugar;  or  the  fruit  will  shrivel 
instead  of  becoming  plump  and  clear.  A  pound 
of  sugar  boiled  for  ten  minutes  in  one  pint  of 
water  will  make  a  very  light  syrup ;  but  it  will 
gradually  thicken  if  rapidly  boiled  in  an 
uncovered  pan.  Two  pounds  of  sugar  to  the 
pint  of  water  will  become  thick  with  a  little 
more  than  half  an  hour's  boiling,  or  with  three 
or  four  separate  boilings  of  eight  or  ten  minutes 
each;  if  too  much  reduced  it  will  candy  instead 
of  remaining  liquid. 

In  making  Jams  many  cooks,  after  allowing 
the  proper  proportion  of  sugar,  put  the  fruit 
into  the  preserving-pan  without  removing  the 
stones  or  skins  until  after  boiling,  as  the  flavor 
is  thought  to  be  finer  by  adopting  this  method. 
Glass  bottles  are  preferable  to  any  other,  as  they 
allow  inspection  to  detect  incipient  fermenta- 
tion, which  may  be  stayed  by  re-boiling. 
Copper  or  brass  preserving-pans  are  the  best 
kind  to  use,  but  they  require  a  great  deal  of 
care  to  keep  clean ;  the  enameled  are  very  nice 
and  easily  kept  in  order.  Jams  should  be  kept 
in  a  dry,  cool  place,  and  if  properly  made  will 
only  require  a  small  round  of  writing-paper 
oiled,  and  laid  on  to  fit,  and  tied  down  securely 
with  a  second  paper  brushed  over  with  the  white 
of  egg  to  exclude  the  air. 

Plum  Jam  —  Allow  %  lb.  of  white  sugar  to  1 
lb.  of  fruit.   It  is  difficult  to  give  the  exact  quan- 


Preserves.  231 

tity  of  sugar  to  be  used  in  plum  jam;  in  fact,  it 
entirely  depends  upon  the  quality  of  the  plums 
used;  therefore  your  own  judgment  will  be  neces- 
sary. After  weighing  the  plums  halve  them  and 
remove  the  stones;  then  place  on  a  large  dish 
and  sprinkle  with  the  sugar;  leave  them  thus  for 
24  hours;  then  put  into  a  preserving-pan  and 
let  them  simmer  gently  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
for  about  25  or  30  minutes,  then  boil  very 
quickly  for  ^  hour,  skimming  carefully,  and 
stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  prevent  the  jam 
sticking.  It  greatly  improves  the  jam  to  put 
some  kernels  from  the  plum  stones  into  it. 

To  Preserve  Fruit  in  Syrup  —  To  every  lb. 
of  fruit  allow  1  lb.  of  lump  sugar,  ^  tumbler  of 
cold  water.  Boil  the  water  and  sugar  together 
until  it  thickens  slightly,  which  will  take  about 
3/2  hour  if  the  sugar  be  good.  Take  off  the  scum 
as  it  rises.  Add  the  fruit  and  boil  for  3^  hour 
(rather  longer  if  stone  fruit),  stirring  very 
slightly,  or  the  fruit  will  break.  Take  off  the 
scum  as  it  rises,  but  if  both  sugar  and  fruit  be 
good  there  will  be  very  little.  Put  into  jars  and 
tie  over. 

N.  B. — To  keep  well,  fruit  must  be  perfectly 
sound  and  dry  when  gathered. 

Currant  Jam  —  Three-quarters  of  a  lb.  of 
white  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit. 

Let  the  fruit  be  very  ripe,  remove  from  the 
stalks  with  a  silver  fork ;  dissolve  the  sugar  over 
the  fire,  then  put  in  the  currants  and  boil  for  i^ 
hour,  stirring  and  skimming  all  the  time.  Put 
into  jars  and  cover  air-tight. 

Raspberry  Jam  —  Allow  1  lb.  white  sugar  to 
1  lb.  fruit,  and  3^  cup  red  currant  juice. 

Directly  this  fruit  is  purchased  preserve  it;  if 
allowed  to  stand  the  jam  and  the  flavor  will  not 
be  so  good;  place  in  preserving-pan  and  allow  to 


232  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

boil  for  3^  hour.  Be  particular  to  skim  well,  as 
this  will  make  the  jam  nice  and  clear.  When 
done,  place  in  pots  and  cover  in  the  usual 
manner. 

Gooseberry  Jam  — Some  fine  full-grown, 
unripe  gooseberries,  their  weight  in  sugar;  to  1 
pint  of  liquor  allow  1  lb.  of  sugar. 

Cut,  and  pick  out  the  seeds  of  the  goose- 
berries; put  them  into  a  pan  of  water,  green,  and 
put  them  into  a  sieve  to  drain;  beat  them  in  a 
marble  mortar,  with  their  weight  in  sugar.  Boil 
a  quart  of  them  to  a  mash  in  a  quart  of  water; 
squeeze,  and  add  to  the  liquor  sugar  in  the  above 
proportions;  then  boil  and  skim  it,  put  in  your 
green  gooseberries,  and  having  boiled  them  till 
very  thick,  clear,  and  of  a  nice  green,  put  them 
into  bottles. 

Damson  Jam  —  Equal  quantities  of  fruit  and 
jelly. 

Choose  the  fruit  without  blemish;  remove  the 
stones  from  the  fruit,  and  put  it  and  the  sugar 
into  your  preserving-pan;  stir  slowly  until  the 
sugar  is  melted,  and  remove  all  scum.  After  the 
jam  has  begun  to  simmer,  allow  it  to  boil  for  an 
hour.  It  is  necessary  to  stir  diligently,  or  the 
jam  will  burn.  When  done,  pot  in  the  usual 
way. 

Tomato  Preserves  —  Select  small,  green 
tomatoes,  wipe  carefully  and  prick  the  skins  in 
several  places.  To  ^  peck  of  these  take  4  lbs. 
sugar,  juice  of  6  large  lemons,  and  2  oz.  green 
ginger  root  and  1  of  mace;  put  on  the  rest  of 
the  ingredients  and  let  them  boil  ^  hour,  skim- 
ming carefully;  then  put  on  the  tomatoes  and  let 
them  cook  gently.  When  the  tomatoes  are  clear' 
and  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw  take  them  up 
and  lay  carefully  on  plates  to  cool,  allowing  the 
syrup  to  simmer  on  the  back  of  the  stove.     Put 


Preserves.  233 

the  tomatoes  into  jars,  pour  over  the  syrup  and 
seal.  Small  yellow  tomatoes  may  be  preserved 
in  the  same  way. 

Tomato  Jelly— One  peck  yellow  tomatoes 
cut  into  pieces  and  boiled  until  soft;  strain 
through  a  jelly  bag;  put  on  the  fire  and  boil  20 
minutes;  to  every  cup  of  juice  measure  one  of 
sugar;  set  the  sugar  in  the  oven,  being  careful 
that  it  is  only  heated  through,  not  scorched.  At 
the  end  of  the  20  minutes  add  the  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  a  dozen  lemons  which  has  been  strained 
through  your  jelly  bag;  boil  15  minutes  more, 
then  pour  into  your  jelly  glasses.  Have  the 
glasses  just  washed  in  hot  water  and  wiped  dry, 
and  put  a  teaspoon  in  each  one  as  you  are  ready 
to  fill  it.  This  will  prevent  the  hot  liquid  from 
breaking  the  glasses. 

(Juince  Marmalade  —  Four  lbs.  peeled  and 
thinly  sliced  quinces  in  2  quarts  acidulated  water, 
2  lbs.  peeled,  cored  and  sliced  apples,  3  lbs. 
sugar. 

Place  the  fruit  on  the  fire  to  boil  until  soft; 
then  add  the  sugar,  and  stir  the  marmalade  with 
a  clean  wooden  spoon  over  a  brisk  fire  until  re- 
duced to  a  rather  thick  paste — running  rather 
slowly  off  the  spoon  when  lifted  out  of  the  pan; 
the  marmalade  must  then  be  immediately  re- 
moved from  the  fire  and  poured  into  pots. 

Green  Grape  Jam— To  1  lb.  grapes  allow  % 
lb.  sugar. 

Pick  the  grapes  carefully  and  reject  any  that 
are  injured;  wash  them.  Put  the  grapes  into  a 
preserving-pan,  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  then  a 
layer  of  grapes.  Boil  on  a  moderate  fire,  stirring 
it  all  the  time  to  prevent  its  burning,  and  as  the 
grape  stones  rise  take  them  out  with  a  spoon,  so 
that  by  the  time  the  fruit  is  suflQciently  boiled — 


234  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

about  1  hour — the  stones  will  all  have  been  taken 
out.     Put  into  jars  and  cover  in  the  usual  way. 

Blackberry  Jam  —  To  every  lb.  of  picked 
fruit  allow  1  lb.  loaf  sugar  and  }4:  ^b.  apples 
peeled  and  cored  and  cut  quite  small.  Boil  the 
fruit  for  10  minutes,  add  the  sugar,  boil,  stir  and 
remove  all  scum.  It  will  take  from  3^  to  ^  of 
an  hour. 

Strawl)erry  Jam — To  1  lb.  fruit  allow  %  lb. 
or  1  lb.  sugar;  to  4  lbs.  strawberries  add  1  pint 
red  currant  juice. 

Put  the  currant  juice  and  strawberries  on  to 
boil  for  30  minutes,  and  stir  carefully  all  the 
time;  then  put  in  the  sugar  and  boil  up  very 
quickly  for  20  or  25  minutes,  removing  any  scum 
that  arises;  put  into  your  jars,  covering  air- 
tight. If  a  pound  of  sugar  is  used  there  will  be 
more  jelly. 

Apple  Marmalade  —  Pare,  core  and  quarter 
some  apples;  put  into  a  preserving-pan  with  suf- 
ficient water  to  prevent  burning.  Boil  till  it  is 
a  pulp.  Take  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  in  large 
lumps,  dip  in  water  and  boil  till  it  is  a  thick 
syrup;  put  it  to  the  pulp,  and  simmer  on  a  quick 
fire  quarter  of  an  hour.  Grate  in  lemon-peel  be- 
fore it  is  boiled. 

Apple  Cheese  —  Dissolve  1  lb.  sugar  in  }^  pint 
water;  add  IJ^  lbs.  apples  cut  in  quarters,  and 
the  rind  of  1  lemon  grated.  Boil  3  hours;  10 
minutes  before  that  time  add  the  juice  of  the 
lemon;  stir  all  the  time  after  the  lemon  is  added, 
and  boil  quickly. 

To  Preserve  Raspberries  —  To  1  lb.  fruit, 
quite  ripe,  add  1  lb.  finely-sifted  sugar.  Make 
the  sugar  as  hot  as  possible  without  scorching, 
put  it  to  the  fruit,  and  stir  till  every  particle  of 
sugar  is  dissolved;  put  it  in  jars,  and  tie  down 


Preserves.  235 

with  bladder.    It  will  keep  for  a  year,  and  looks 
just  like  fresh  raspberries  crushed  with  sugar. 

Quince  Jam  —  To  1  lb.  quinces  allow  ^  lb. 
sugar. 

Peel  and  quarter  the  quinces,  leaving  the  seeds 
in,  as  they  readily  impart  their  mucilage  to  the 
water  and  thus  thicken  the  syrup.  Put  the  fruit 
and  sugar  into  a  preserving-pan,  and  3^  teacup- 
ful  water  to  moisten  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  stir 
the  fruit  and  sugar  frequently,  and  when  it  boils 
keep  it  boiling  rapidly  until  the  fruit  is  soft  and 
of  a  clear  red  color.  It  will  take  about  an  hour, 
reckoning  from  the  first  boiling-up.  Put  into 
jam  pots,  and  cover  when  cold. 

Apple  Jam  — Allow  to  every  pound  of  pared 
and  cored  fruit  ^  lb.  white  sugar,  the  rind  of 
1  lemon,  and  juice  of  3^  lemon. 

Having  peeled  and  cored  the  apples,  weigh 
them,  and  slice  them  very  thin.  Place  in  a 
stone  jar  and  surround  with  boiling  water; 
allow  them  to  boil  until  tender;  when  tender 
place  in  a  preserving-pan,  add  the  sugar,  grated 
lemon  and  j  uice.  Boil  slowly  ^  hour  from  the 
time  it  begins  to  simmer,  remove  the  scum,  and 
put  into  jars  and  cover  in  the  usual  manner. 

(xreen  Tig  Preserves  —  Equal  quantity  of 
fruit  and  syrup,  peel  of  1  large  lemon,  a  little 
ginger. 

Lay  the  figs  in  cold  water  for  24  hours,  then 
simmer  them  till  tender;  put  them  again  into 
cold  water,  and  let  them  remain  for  two  days, 
changing  the  water  each  day.  If  not  quite  soft, 
simmer  again,  and  replace  in  cold  water  until 
next  day.  Take  their  weight  in  loaf  sugar,  and 
with  %  of  it  make  a  syrup,  in  which  simmer 
the  figs  for  10  minutes.  In  2  days  take  the 
third  of  the  sugar,  pound  fine,  and  pour  the 
syrup  from  the  figs  on  it.     Make  a  rich   syrup 


236  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

•with  the  peel  of  the  lemon  and  a  little  raw 
ginger,  and  boil  the  figs  in  it,  then  mix  all  together 
and  put  into  large  jam  pots.  The  figs  may 
be  cut  in  half,  if  preferred,  after  they  have  sim- 
mered until  soft. 

Preserred  Pumpkins  —  Equal  proportions 
of  sugar  and  pumpkins,  1  gill  lemon  juice. 

Cut  the  pumpkin  in  two,  peel  and  remove  the 
seed,  cut  in  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  50-cent 
piece;  after  weighing  place  in  a  deep  vessel  in 
layers,  first  sprinkling  a  layer  of  sugar,  then  of 
pumpkin,  and  so  on,  until  it  is  finished;  now  add 
the  lemon  juice  and  set  aside  for  3  days;  now 
for  every  3  lbs.  of  sugar  add  ^  a  pint  of  water 
and  boil  until  tender.  Pour  into  a  pan,  setting 
aside  for  6  days,  pour  off  the  syrup  and  boil  till 
thick;  skim  and  add  the  pumpkin  while  boiling; 
bottle  in  the  usual  manner. 

(Jiiinces  Preserved  Whole  —  Some  ripe 
quinces;  to  every  pint  of  water  allow  3  lbs. 
white  sugar. 

Pare  the  quinces  and  put  them  into  the  pre- 
serving pan,three- fourths  covered  with  cold  water 
(if  they  should  float  while  the  water  is  being 
poured  on  them,  press  them  down  with  a  plate 
until  you  have  gauged  the  exact  height  of  the 
water);  take  out  the  quinces,  measure  the  water 
and  add  the  sugar.  Let  this  boil  rapidly  in  the 
preserving-pan  for  5  minutes,  and  then  put  in 
quinces.  The  syrup  should  not  cover  them  at 
first,  but  when  they  are  half  cooked  it  will  then 
amply  cover  the  fruit.  Boil  the  quinces  rapidly, 
until  soft  enough  for  a  knitting-needle  to 
pierce  them  easily,  which  should  be  in  an  hour  and 
a  half,  reckoning  from  the  first  boiling-up.  Take 
the  quinces  out  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  them, 
and  lay  them  on  dishes  to  cool.  Run  the  syrup 
through  a  jelly  bag,  or  a  piece  of  new  flannel, 


Preserves.  237 

put  in  a  gravy  strainer;  this  frees  it  of  all  odd 
little  bits  that  may  boil  from  the  outside  of  the 
quinces,  and  makes  it  clearer.  Put  the  syrup 
back  in  the  preserving-pan,  and  boil  it  rapidly 
until  it  vrill  jelly  when  dropped  on  a  plate;  put 
the  quinces  into  the  boiling  syrup,  and  let  them 
simmer  gently  for  10  minutes.  Place  each 
quince  carefully  in  wide-necked  jars, .pour  the 
hot  syrup  over  them,  and  when  cold  cover  in  the 
usual  way. 

Preserved  Oranges— Any  number  of  oranges, 
with  rather  more  than  their  weight  in  sugar; 
allow  rather  more  than  ^  pint  of  water  to  each 
lb.  sugar. 

Slightly  grate  and  score  the  oranges  round  and 
round  with  a  knife,  but  not  very  deeply.  Put  them 
into  cold  water  for  3  days,  changing  the  water 
twice  each  day.  Tie  them  up  in  a  cloth  and  boil 
them  until  they  are  quite  soft,  that  is,  soft 
enough  to  be  penetrated  by  the  head  of  a  pin. 
While  they  are  boiling  place  the  sugar  on  the  fire 
with  the  water;  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
strain  it  through  muslin.  Put  the  oranges  into 
the  syrup  and  boil  till  it  jellies  and  is  of  a  yellow 
color.  Try  the  syrup  by  putting  some  to  cool; 
it  should  not  be  too  stiff.  The  syrup  need  not 
cover  the  oranges  completely,  but  they  must  be 
turned  so  that  each  part  gets  thoroughly  done. 
Place  the  oranges  in  pots,  cover  with  syrup,  and 
tie  down  with  paraffin  e  papers.  This  is  an  ex- 
cellent way  of  preserving  oranges  or  shaddocks 
whole.  Only  they  should  be  looked  at  now  and 
then,  and  boiled  up  again  in  fresh  syrup,  if 
what  they  are  in  has  become  too  hard,  which, 
however,  if  they  have  been  properly  done,  will  not 
be  the  case.  They  form  a  nice  dish  for  dessert,  or 
for  serving,  filled  with  whipped  cream  or  cus- 
tard, either  cold  or  gently  warmed  through  in  the 
syrup  in  a  stewpan. 


238  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

To  Cover  Preserves  —  Cut  a  round  of  thin 
paper  the  size  of  your  jar,  brush  it  over  with 
white  of  egg,  and  place  on  the  preserve  egg  down- 
wards. See  that  it  lies  flat  so  as  to  keep  out  the 
air.  Cut  a  round  of  white  cooking-paper  rather 
larger  than  your  jar.  Snip  round  the  edge. 
Brush  well  over  with  white  of  egg,  place  on 
your  jar,  and  stick  down  the  edges  round  the 
jar  with  a  dry  cloth.  Let  your  jam  be  cold 
before  done,  and  let  the  paper  on  the  top  dry 
well  before  putting  away. 

Apple  Marmalade  —  Some  good  cooking  ap- 
ples, %  lb.  fruit,  3^  teacupfal  water  to  6  lbs.  su- 
gar, a  few  cloves,  cinnamon  or  lemon  peel  for 
flavor. 

Peel,  core  and  thinly  slice  the  apples  (apples 
that  cook  to  a  smooth  pulp  easily) ;  put  the  sugar 
in  a  preserving-pan  (a  tin  or  iron  saucepan  will 
turn  them  black)  with  the  water;  let  it  gradually 
melt,  and  boil  it  for  10  minutes;  then  put  in  the 
sliced  apple,  and  a  few  cloves,  cinnamon  or 
lemon  peel  to  flavor,  if  liked.  Boil  rapidly  for 
an  hour,  skim  well,  and  put  in  jam  pots;  it 
should  be  quite  a  smooth  pulp,  clear,  and  a  bright 
amber  color.     Will  keep  good  for  12  months. 

Orape  Marmalade— Take  10  lbs.  of  nice  ripe 
grapes  and  wash  them  carefully;  squeeze  the 
pulps  into  one  dish  and  throw  the  skins  into 
another,  put  the  pulps  through  a  colander  to 
remove  seeds,  then  put  pulps  and  skins  together 
with  ^  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  of  fruit  and  cook 
thoroughly  until  jellied. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle— Three  and  ^  lbs. 
tomatoes,  1^  lbs.  sugar,  }£  oz.  each  of  cinnamon, 
mace  and  cloves  mixed,  1  pint  vinegar. 

Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes,  sticking  into  them 
the  cloves;  put  all  together  into  a  stewpan  and 


Preserves.  239 

stew  an  hour.     When  done  pack  in  glass  jars, 
and  pour  the  syrup  over  boiling  hot. 

Sweet  Peach  Pickle  —  To  4  lbs.  peaches 
allow  2  lbs.  white  sugar,  ^  oz.  each  of  mace,  cin- 
namon and  cloves  mixed,  and  1  pint  of  the  best 
white  vinegar. 

Pour  scalding  water  over  the  peaches  and  re- 
move the  skins  with  a  butter  knife;  drop  into 
cold  water;  stick  four  cloves  in  each  peach.  Lay 
the  peaches  in  preserving-pan  with  the  sugar 
sprinkled  over  them;  bring  gradually  to  the  boil, 
add  vinegar  and  spice,  boil  5  or  6  minutes.  Re- 
move the  peaches  and  place  in  bottles.  Boil  the 
syrup  thick  and  pour  over  boiling  hot. 

How  to  Ice  Fruit  — Any  desirable  fruit  may 
be  iced  by  dipping  first  in  the  beaten  white  of 
an  egg,  then  in  pulverized  sugar.  Do  this  until 
the  icing  is  sufficiently  thick.  Peaches  should  be 
pared  and  cut  in  halves,  and  sweet,  juicy  pears 
are  treated  in  the  same  way.  Cherries,  strawber- 
ries and  other  small  fruits  are  iced  with  the  stems 
on,  only  the  largest  being  chosen.  Pineapples 
should  be  cut  into  thin  slices  and  these  again 
divided  into  quarters.  Oranges  and  lemons 
should  be  carefully  pared,  and  all  the  white  skin 
removed.  Lemons  are  cut  into  horizontal  slices, 
and  oranges  are  divided  into  quarters. 

Salted  Peanuts — Buy  one  quart  of  unroasted 
peanuts,  break  the  shells  carefully  to  prevent 
crushing;  then  drop  the  nuts  into  very  hot  water 
and  rub  gently  until  the  red  skin  is  off.  Dry 
carefully,  lay  on  flat  tin  plates  and  pour  melted 
butter  over  them — a  couple  of  teaspoonfuls  will 
suffice;  then  set  in  rather  quick  oven  until  a  nice 
brown;  then  take  up  and  sprinkle  liberally  with 
salt,  tossing  them  so  that  both  sides  will  receive 
a  coat. 


6ANNED  FRUITS,  Etc. 

To  Can  Peaches  —  First  prepare  the  syrup. 
For  canned  fruits,  1  quart  granulated  sugar  to  2 
quarts  water  is  the  proper  proportion;  to  be  in- 
creased or  lessened,  according  to  the  quantity  of 
fruit  to  be  canned,  but  always  twice  as  much 
water  as  sugar.  Use  porcelain  kettle,  and,  if 
possible,  take  care  that  it  is  kept  solely  for  can- 
ning and  preserving  —  nothing  else.  Have  an- 
other porcelain  kettle  by  the  side  of  the  first,  for 
boiling  water  (about  3  quarts).  Put  the  peaches, 
a  few  at  a  time,  into  a  wire  basket,  such  as  is 
used  to  cook  asparagus,  etc.  See  that  it  is  per- 
fectly clean  and  free  from  rust.  Dip  them,  when 
in  the  basin,  into  a  pail  of  boiling  water  for  a 
moment,  and  transfer  immediately  into  a  pail 
of  cold  water.  The  skin  will  then  at  once  peel 
off  easily,  if  not  allowed  to  harden  by  waiting. 
This,  besides  being  a  neat  and  expeditious  way  of 
peeling  peaches,  also  saves  the  best  part  of  the 
fruit,  which  is  so  badly  wasted  in  the  usual  mode 
of  paring  fruit.  As  soon  as  peeled,  halve  and 
drop  the  peaches  into  boiling  water,  and  let 
them  simmer — not  boil  hard  —  till  a  stiver  fork 
can  be  passed  through  them  easily.  Then  lift 
each  half  out  separately  with  a  wire  spoon  and 
fill  the  can  made  ready  for  use;  pour  in  all  the 
boiling  syrup  which  the  jar  will  hold;  leave  it  a 
moment  for  the  fruit  to  shrink  while  filling  the 
next  jar;  then  add  as  much  more  boiling  syrup 
as  the  jar  will  hold,  and  cover  and  screw  down 
tightly  immediately.  Continue  in  this  way,  pre- 
paring and  sealing  one  jar  at  a  time,  until  all  is 
done.  If  any  syrup  is  left  over,  add  to  it  the 
water  in  which  the  peaches  were  simmered,  and 
a  little  more  sugar;  boil  it  down  till  it  "  ropes" 
from  the  spoon  and  you  have  a  nice  jelly,  or,  by 
adding  some  peaches  or  other  fruit,  a  good  dish 
of  marmalade.      Peaches  or  other  fruit,  good, 

240 


Canned  Fruits,  Etc.  241 

but  not  quite  nice  enough  for  canning,  can  be 
used  in  this  way  very  economically.  Peaches  to 
be  peeled  as  directed  above  should  not  be  too 
green  or  too  ripe,  else,  in  the  first  place,  the  skin 
cannot  be  peeled  off,  or,  if  too  ripe,  the  fruit 
will  fall  to  pieces. 

Another  Way  —  After  peeling  and  halving  as 
above  directed,  lay  a  clean  towel  or  cloth  in  the 
bottom  of  a  steamer  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  and  put  the  fruit  on  it,  half  filling  the 
steamer.  Cover  tightly  and  let  it  steam  while 
making  the  syrup.  When  this  is  ready,  and  the 
fruit  steamed  till  a  silver  fork  will  pass  through 
easily,  dip  each  piece  gently  into  the  boiling 
syrup;  then  as  gently  place  in  the  hot  jar,  and 
so  continue  till  all  have  been  thus  scalded  and 
put  in  the  jar.  Then  fill  ftdl  with  syrup,  cover 
and  seal  immediately.  While  filling,  be  sure  and 
keep  the  jars  hot. 

Pears —  The  skin  will  not  peel  off  so  easily  as 
that  of  peaches  by  dipping  them  in  boiling 
water,  but  it  will  loosen  or  soften  enough  to  be 
taken  off  with  less  waste  of  the  fruit  than  if 
pared  without  scalding.  Prepare  the  syrup  and 
proceed  as  for  peaches.  They  will  require  longer 
cooking;  but  as  soon  as  a  silver  fork  will  pass 
through  easily,  they  are  done.  Longer  cooking 
destroys  the  flavor. 

Pineapples — Pare  very  carefully  with  a  silver 
knife,  as  steel  injures  all  fruit.  With  the  sharp 
point  of  the  knife  dig  out  as  neatly  and  with  as 
little  waste  as  possible  all  the  "  eyes  "  and  black 
specks,  then  cut  out  each  of  the  sections  in 
which  the  "eyes"  were,  in  solid  pieces  clear 
down  to  the  core.  By  doing  this  all  the  real  fruit 
is  saved,  leaving  the  core  a  hard,  round,  woody 
substance,  but  containing    considerable    juice. 

16 


242  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Take  this  core  and  wring  it  with  the  hands  as  one 
wrings  a  cloth,  till  all  the  juice  is  extracted,  then 
throw  it  away.  Put  the  juice  thus  saved  into  the 
syrup;  let  it  boil  up  5  minutes,  skim  till  clear, 
then  add  fruit.  Boil  as  short  a  time  as  possible, 
and  have  the  flesh  tender.  The  pineapple  loses 
flavor  by  over-cooking  more  rapidly  than  any 
other  fruit.  Fill  into  well-heated  jars,  add  all 
the  syrup  the  jar  will  hold;  cover  and  screw  down 
as  soon  as  possible. 

Plums  —  Plums  should  be  wiped  with  a  soft 
cloth  or  dusted,  never  washed.  Have  the  syrup 
all  ready,  prick  each  plum  with  a  silver  fork  to 
prevent  the  skin  from  bursting,  and  put  them 
into  the  syrup.  Boil  from  8  to  10  minutes,  judg- 
ing by  the  size  of  the  fruit.  Dip  carefully  into 
the  hot  jars,  fill  full,  and  screw  on  the  cover 
immediately.  Cherries  may  be  put  up  in  the 
same  way. 

Strawberries  (Canned)  —  Allow  to  each  1  lb. 
of  fruit  %  lb.  of  sugar. 

Put  berries  and  sugar  into  a  large,  flat  dish  and 
allow  to  stand  about  3  hours,  then  draw  off  the 
juice  and  put  into  preserving-pan  and  allow  to 
come  to  a  boil,  removing  the  scum  as  it  rises; 
then  put  in  the  berries,  and  let  them  come  to  a 
boil.    Put  into  warm  bottles  and  seal  quickly. 

Cherries  (Canned)  —  To  every  1  lb.  of  fruit 
3^  lb.  of  sugar,  3  gills  of  water. 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  on  the  fire  to  heat,  and 
as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  put  in  the  cherries 
and  allow  them  to  scald  for  ^  hour;  put  into 
bottles  boiling  hot  and  seal.  A  few  of  the  ker- 
nels put  in  to  scald  with  the  fruit  impart  a  fine 
flavor.     Note  —  Be  sure  to  skim  well. 

Preserved  Crab  Apples  —  Select  large,  fine 
crab   apples,  prick  the  skins  in  several  places; 


Canned  Fruits,  Etc,  243 

put  into  yoor  preserving-kettle  ^  lb.  of  sugar  to 
each  pound  of  fruit  and  a  cupful  of  water;  let 
the  syrup  boil  20  minutes,  skimming  off  the 
scum  which  rises  to  the  top;  then  put  in  your 
fruit  and  cook  gently  until  the  apples  can  be 
pierced  with  a  straw;  then  take  them  out  and 
lay  on  plates;  boil  the  juice  3^  hour  longer;  then 
put  the  fruit  in  jars,  fill  up  with  juice  and  seal. 

Fruit  Jellies— The  fruit  should  be  placed  in 
a  jar,  and  the  jar  set  in  a  stewpan  of  warm 
water,  covered  and  allowed  to  boil  until  the  fruit 
is  broken;  take  a  strong  jelly  bag  and  press  a 
little  of  the  fruit  at  a  time,  turning  out  each  time 
the  skins;  allow  2  lbs.  of  sugar  to  1  quart  of 
juice,  set  on  the  stove  to  boil  again.  Many  good 
cooks  heat  the  sugar  by  placing  in  the  oven  and 
stirring  now  and  then  to  prevent  burning.  When 
the  juice  begins  to  boil  (watch  that  it  does  not 
boil  over  25  minutes),  then  add  the  heated  sugar; 
stir  well  and  just  bring  to  a  boil,  remove  directly 
from  the  stove,  dip  the  vessels  to  contain  it  in 
hot  water,  and  set  them  upon  a  dish  cloth  wrung 
out  of  warm  water,  pouring  the  boiling  liquid 
into  them;  cover  in  the  usual  manner. 

Rhubarb  Jelly  —  Soak  2  oz.  gelatine  in  a  pint 
of  water  with  }4  lb.  best  lump-sugar;  well  wash 
and  slice  about  2}4  lbs.  of  rhubarb  of  a  nice 
bright  color,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  to  boil  with  a 
quart  of  water,  leave  it  to  get  thoroughly  stewed, 
but  not  long  enough  to  let  the  juice  get  thick; 
strain  the  latter,  and  add  1}4  pints  of  it  to  the 
dissolved  gelatine,  with  the  whites  and  shells  of 
3  eggs.  Whisk  it  all  quickly  on  the  fire,  pass  it 
through  the  jelly-bag,  and  pour  it  into  a  mould 
and  leave  it  to  set. 

Orange  and  Tapioca  Jelly  — Soak  6  table- 
spoonfuls  of  tapioca  for  3  hours  in  2  cupfuls  of 
salted  water;  set  in  hot  water  and  boil,  adding  4 


244  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  little  boiling  water  if 
too  thick.  When  like  custard,  add  the  juice  of  1 
orange.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  mould  with 
sliced  oranges,  and  when  the  jelly  is  cool  pour  it 
over  the  fruit. 

Quince  Jelly  —  Ripe  quinces,  allowing  1  pint 
of  water  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  ^  lb.  of  sugar 
to  each  pound  of  juice. 

Prepare  the  quinces  and  put  them  in  water 
in  the  above  proportions;  simmer  gently  till  the 
juice  becomes  colored,  but  only  very  pale;  strain 
the  juice  through  a  jelly  bag,  but  do  not  press 
the  fruit;  allow  it  to  drain  itself.  Put  the  strained 
juice  in  a  preserving-pan  and  boil  20  minutes; 
then  stir  in  the  sugar  in  the  above  proportions 
and  stir  over  the  fire  for  20  minutes,  taking  off 
the  scum,  and  pour  into  glasses  to  set.  It  should 
be  rich  in  flavor,  but  pale  and  beautifully  trans- 
parent.   Long  boiling  injures  the  color. 

Raspberry  Jelly  —  Ripe,  carefully  picked 
raspberries;  allow  ^  lb.  of  pounded  sugar  to 
every  pound  of  fruit. 

Boil  the  raspberries  for  10  minutes,  strain  and 
weigh  the  juice  and  add  the  sugar  in  the  above 
proportions  and  boil  for  15  or  20  minutes.  Skim 
and  stir  well. 

Cherry  Jelly — May  dukes  or  Kentish  cherries 
(allowing  ^  pint  of  water  to  1  lb.  of  fruit). 

Boil  the  cherries  in  the  water,  strain  the  juice 
and  proceed  as  for  raspberry  jelly. 

Red  Currant  Jelly —  Red  currants;  %  lb.  of 
sugar  to  1  lb.  of  juice. 

Pick  the  fruit  and  simmer  it  in  water  for  about 
an  hour,  or  until  the  juice  flows  freely;  strain, 
boii  up  the  juice,  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  again, 
skimming  and  stirring  well  for  15  minutes.  Put 
into  small  pots,  and  when  cold  and  firm  cover  it. 


Canned  Fruits,  Etc.  245 

Black  Currant  Jelly  —  Make  in  the  same 
way,  but  use  a  larger  proportion  of  sugar. 

White  Currant  Jelly  —  Pick  the  fruit  care- 
fully, weigh  it,  and  put  into  the  preserving-pan 
equal  quantities  of  fruit  and  sugar.  Boil  quickly 
for  10  minutes,  and  strain  the  juice  into  the 
pots;  when  cold  and  stiff  cover  them. 

Blackberry  Jelly  —  Make  as  directed  for  red 
currant,  but  use  only  10  oz.  of  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  juice.  The  addition  of  a  little  lemon 
juice  is  an  improvement. 

Barberry  Jelly  —  Barberries,  a  little  water, 
%  lb.  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  juice. 

Take  ripe  barberries,  carefully  reject  any 
spotted  or  decayed  ones,  wash,  drain  them  and 
strip  off  the  stalks.  Boil  with  a  very  little  water 
till  quite  tender,  press  out  and  strain  the  juice, 
boil  up  the  juice,  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  for  10 
minutes,  skimming  and  stirring  as  above. 

Green  Gooseberry  Jelly  —  Carefully  picked 
gooseberries,  allowing  to  each  pound  of  fruit  ^ 
pint  of  water;  to  every  pound  of  juice  allow  1 
lb.  of  white  sifted  sugar. 

Boil  the  fruit  in  the  water,  reduce  to  a  pulp — 
it  will  take  }^  hour — strain  through  a  jelly- bag, 
weigh  the  sugar  in  the  above  proportions;  boil 
up  the  juice  quickly  and  add  the  sugar;  boil  till 
reduced  to  a  jelly  (about  20  minutes),  skim  and 
stir  well;  pour  into  pots. 

Red  Gooseberry  Jelly  —  Make  it  in  the  same 
way  as  the  green,  but  ^  lb.  of  sugar  will  be  suf- 
ficient for  each  pound  of  juice.  In  straining  the 
juice  be  careful  not  to  press  the  fruit.  The 
surplus  fruit,  with  the  addition  of  some  currant 
juice,  can  be  made  into  common  jam. 


246  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

Mixed  Fruit  Jelly  —  Fruit,  strawberries,  cur- 
rants, cherries,  etc.;  ^  lb.  of  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  juice. 

Take  ripe  fruit,  strip  off  the  stalks  and  remove 
the  stones  from  the  cherries,  boil  all  together  for 
J^  hour,  strain  the  juice.  Boil  up  the  juice,  add 
the  sugar  in  the  above  proportions,  stirring  well 
till  quite  dissolved,  boil  again  for  15  or  20 
minutes  till  it  jellies,  stirring  frequently,  and 
carefully  removing  all  scnm  as  it  rises. 

Quince  Jelly  —  Ripe  quinces;  to  every  pound 
of  quince  allow  1  lb.  of  crushed  sugar. 

Peel,  cut  up  and  core  the  quinces.  Put  them 
in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew 
gently  till  soft,  but  not  red.  Strain  the  juice 
without  pressure,  boil  the  juice  for  20  minutes, 
add  the  sugar  and  boil  again  till  it  jellies — about 
3^  hour — stir  and  skim  well  all  the  time.  Strain 
it  again  through  a  napkin,  or  twice-folded  mus- 
lin, pour  into  pots  or  moulds,  and  when  cold 
cover  it.  The  remainder  of  the  fruit  can  be 
made  into  marmalade  with  ^  lb.  sugar  and  3^ 
lb.  juicy  apples  to  every  pound  of  quinces,  or  it 
can  be  made  into  compotes  or  tarts. 

Quince  and  Apple  Jelly  —  Equal  quantities 
of  quinces  and  apples;  to  every  pound  of  juice 
allow  ^  lb.  white  sugar. 

Stew  the  fruit  separately  till  tender  (the 
quinces  will  take  longer),  strain  the  juice,  mix  it 
and  add  the  sugar.     Proceed  as  in  quince  jelly. 

Apple  Jelly  —  Some  sound  apples;  allow  ^ 
lb.  sugar  to  each  pound  of  juice. 

Peel,  core  and  quarter  the  apples,  and  throw 
them  into  cold  water  as  they  are  done;  boil  them 
till  tender,  then  strain  the  juice  from  them 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  afterwards  through  a 
jelly  bag — if  necessary  pass  it  through  twice, 
as  the  juice  should  be  quite  clear;  boil  up  the 


Canned  Fruits,  Etc,  247 

juice  add  the  sugar,  stir  till  melted,  and  boil  for 
another  10  minutes;  add  the  strained  juice  of  a 
lemon  to  every  1)^  lbs.  of  juice  just  before  it  is 
finished. 

Apple  Jelly  (2)  —  One  lb.  moist  sugar,  1  lb. 
apples,  1  lemon  — the  juice  of  the  lemon  to  be 
used  and  the  rind  added,  cut  very  fine. 

Boil  the  whole  until  it  becomes  a  perfect  jelly; 
let  it  stand  in  a  mould  till  quite  firm  and  cold, 
turn  it  out  and  stick  it  with  almonds;  set  custard 
round.     If  for  dessert,  use  a  small  plain  mould. 

Orange  Jelly  — Put  1  package  of  gelatine  to 
soak  m  1  pint  of  cold  water;  when  it  is  dissolved 
add  2  pints  of  boiling  water  and  juice  of  % 
dozen  oranges  and  2  lemons,  as  well  as  1  pound 
of  sugar;  when  all  is  dissolved,  strain  through  a 
jelly  bag  and  set  away  to  harden.  Cider  or  other 
fruit  juice  may  be  substituted  for  the  oranges 
and  lemons. 

Sago  Jelly  — Two  lbs.  picked  red  currants,  1 
pint  cold  water,  i^  lb.  white  sugar,  a  cupful  of 
sago. 

Put  the  currants  into  the  water  and  boil  till 
soft,  pass  them  through  a  sieve;  put  the  juice  to 
boil  again  with  the  sugar;  when  quite  boiling 
add  the  sago,  previously  soaked  in  cold  water; 
boil  20  minutes  until  quite  transparent,  put  into 
a  mould,  and  when  cold  turn  out.  Serve  with 
or  without  custard  around  it. 

Currant  Spong-e  —  Cover  %  box  of  gelatine 
with  cold  water  and  let  soak  }4  hour;  pour  over 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  %  pint  of  sugar  and 
stir  over  the  fire  for  5  minutes.  Pour  in  ^  pint 
of  red  currant  juice,  strain  into  a  tin  pan,  set  on 
ice  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  beat  to  a 
froth,  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  mix, 
and  pour  into  a  mould  to  harden.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 


DAIRY  DISHES. 

GEEAT  attention  and  cleanliness  are  re- 
quired in  the  management  of  a  dairy. 
The  cows  should  be  regularly  milked  at 
an  early  hour,  and  their  udders  perfectly 
emptied. 

The  quantity  of  milk  depends  on  many 
causes;  as  the  goodness,  breed  and  health  of 
the  cow,  the  pasture,  the  length  of  time  from 
calving,  the  having  plenty  of  clean  water  in  the 
field  she  feeds  in,  etc.  A  change  of  pasture 
will  tend  to  increase  it. 

When  a  calf  is  to  be  reared,  it  should  be 
removed  from  the  cow  in  ten  days  at  the 
farthest.  It  should  be  removed  in  the  morning 
and  no  food  given  to  it  till  the  following  morn- 
ing, when,  being  extremely  hungry,  it  will 
drink  readily;  feed  it  regularly  morning  and 
evening,  and  let  the  milk  which  is  given  to  it 
be  just  warm;  skimmed  milk  will  be  quite  good 
enough. 

The  milk  when  brought  in  should  always  be 
strained  into  the  pans.  The  cans  containing 
the  recently  drawn  milk  should  be  placed  in 
water  about  56°  F.,  which  should  rise  a  little 
above  the  level  of  the  milk;  the  animal  heat  is 
thus  reduced  to  between  56  and  58°  F.,  and 
the  milk  will  keep  sweet  for  thirty-six  hours 
even  in  the  hottest  weather.  This  temperature 
allows  the  cream  to  rise  with  greater  facility 
and  with  less  admixture  of  other  constituents 
than  can  be  obtained  in  any  other  way.  Some 
butter-makers  allow  the  milk  to  stand  for  thirty- 
six  hours;  others  say  that  twenty-four  hours  is 

248 


Dairy  Dishes.  249 

sufficient  for  all  the  cream  to  rise.  After  the 
cream  has  risen  it  is  to  be  removed  by  skimming, 
and  after  standing  a  suitable  time  is  placed  in 
the  churn.  The  kind  of  churn  generally  pre- 
ferred by  the  best  butter-makers  is  the  common 
dash  churn,  made  of  white  oak.  Much  depends 
upon  the  manner  in  which  the  operation  is  per- 
formed, even  with  the  same  churn.  The  motion 
should  be  steady  and  regular,  not  too  quick 
nor  too  slow.  The  time  occupied  in  churning 
12  or  15  gallons  of  cream  should  be  from  40  to 
60  minutes.  When  removed  from  the  churn,  it 
should  be  thoroughly  washed  in  cold  water, 
using  a  ladle  and  not  the  hands.  It  should 
then  be  salted  with  about  one-twentieth  of  its 
weight  of  the  purest  and  finest  salt,  which 
should  be  thoroughly  incorporated  with  it,  by 
means  of  a  butter- worker,  or  ladle,  the  hands 
being  never  allowed  to  touch  the  butter.  Twelve 
hours  afterwards  another  working  should  be 
performed  and  the  butter  packed  in  strong  and 
perfectly  tight  white  oak  firkins.  When  filled 
they  should  be  headed  up  and  a  strong  brine 
poured  in  at  the  top.  It  should  then  be  placed 
in  a  cool,  well- ventilated  cellar. 

Dr.  Ure  gives  the  following  directions  for 
curing  butter,  known  as  the  Irish  method: 
"  Take  one  part  of  sugar,  one  part  of  nitre,  and 
two  of  the  best  Spanish  great  salt,  and  rub  them 
together  into  a  fine  powder.  This  composition 
is  to  be  mixed  thoroughly  with  the  butter  as 
soon  as  it  is  completely  freed  from  the  milk,  in 
the  proportion  of  1  ounce  to  16;  and  the  butter 
thus  prepared  is  to  be  pressed  tight  into  the 


250  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book, 

vessel  prepared  to  receive  it,  so  as  to  leave  no 
vacuities.  This  butter  does  not  taste  well  till 
it  has  stood  at  least  a  fortnight;  it  then  has  a 
rich,  marrowy  flavor  that  no  other  butter  ever 
acquires." 

Preserving"  Butter — Two  lbs.  of  commoD 
salt,  1  lb.  loaf-sugar,  and  1  lb.  saltpetre.  Beat 
the  whole  well  together,  then  to  14  lbs.  of  bnttei 
put  1  lb.  of  this  mixture,  work  it  well,  and  wheu 
cold  and  firm  put  it  into  glazed  earthen  vessels 
that  will  hold  14  lbs.  each.  Butter  thus  preserved 
becomes  better  by  being  kept,  but  it  must  be 
kept  from  the  air,  and  securely  covered  down.  If 
intended  for  winter  use,  add  another  ounce  of 
the  mixture  to  every  pound  of  butter,  and  on  the 
top  of  the  pans  lay  enough  salt  to  cover  them 
with  brine. 

Clouted  Cream  — In  order  to  obtain  this, the 
milk  is  suffered  to  stand  in  a  vessel  for  24  hours. 
It  is  then  placed  over  a  stove,  or  slow  fire,  and 
very  gradually  heated  to  an  almost  simmering 
state,  below  the  boiling  point.  When  this  is 
accomplished  (the  first  bubble  having  appeared), 
the  milk  is  removed  from  the  fire,  and  allowed  to 
stand  for  24  hours  more.  At  the  end  of  this  time 
the  cream  will  have  arisen  to  the  surface  in  a 
thick  or  clouted  state,  and  is  removed.  In  this 
state  it  is  eaten  as  a  luxury;  but  it  is  often  con- 
verted into  butter,  which  is  done  by  stirring  it 
briskly  with  the  hand  or  a  stick.  The  butter 
thus  made,  although  more  in  quantity,  is  not 
equal  in  quality  to  that  procured  from  the  cream 
which  has  risen  slowly  and  spontaneously;  and 
in  the  largest  and  best  dairies  in  the  Vale  of 
Honiton  the  cream  is  never  clouted,  except  when 
intended  for  the  table  in  that  state. 


Dairy  Dishes.  251 

Rennet  —  Take  out  the  stomach  of  a  calf  just 
killed,  and  scour  it  well  with  salt  and  water,  both 
inside  and  out;  let  it  drain,  and  then  sew  it  up 
with  two  large  handfuls  of  salt  in  it,  or  keep  it 
in  the  salt  wet,  and  soak  a  piece  in  fresh  water 
as  it  is  required. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter  — Two  oz.  fresh  but- 
ter, juice  of  1  lemon,  white  sugar  and  salt  to 
taste,  parsley  blanched,  freed  from  moisture  and 
finely  minced. 

Put  the  butter  in  a  basin  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients, incorporate  the  whole  effectually  and 
quickly,  and  put  it  by  in  a  cool  place  until 
wanted. 

Butter  (to  serve  as  a  little  dish)— Roll  but- 
ter in  different  forms,  either  like  a  pine,  making 
the  marks  with  a  teaspoon,  or  in  crimping  roll- 
ers, work  it  through  a  colander,  or  scoop  with  a 
teaspoon,  and  mix  it  with  grated  beef  tongue 
or  anchovies.  Make  a  wreath  of  curled  parsley 
to  garnish. 

Curled  Butter  —  Procure  a  strong  cloth,  and 
secure  it  by  two  of  its  corners  to  a  nail  or  hook 
in  the  wall;  knot  the  remaining  two  corners, 
leaving  a  small  space.  Then  place  your  butter 
into  the  cloth;  twist  firmly  over  your  serving 
dish,  and  the  butter  will  force  its  way  between 
the  knots  in  little  curls  or  strings.  Garnish  with 
parsley  and  send  to  table. 

Daisy  Butter  —  Two  tablespoonfuls  white 
sugar,  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls orange-flower  water,  }^  lb.  fresh  butter. 

Pound  the  yolks  with  the  orange-flower  water 
(in  a  mortar)  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  mix  in  the 
sugar  and  butter.  Now  place  in  a  clean  cloth, 
and  force  the  mixture  through  by  wringing. 
The  butter  will  fall  upon  the  dish  in  pieces  ac- 
cording to  the  size  of  the  holes  in  the  cloth. 


252  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Melted  Butter  —  Five  oz.  butter,  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  water,  salt  to 
taste. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  stew-pan,  and 
stir  one  way  over  the  fire  until  all  the  ingredients 
are  well  mixed.  Allow  it  just  to  boil,  and  it  is 
ready  to  serve. 

Cheese  (to  make) — Warm  the  milk  till  equal 
to  new;  but  observe  it  must  not  be  too  hot;  now 
add  a  sufiQciency  of  rennet  to  turn  it,  and  cover 
it  over;  let  it  remain  till  well  turned,  then  strike 
the  curd  well  down  with  the  skimming-dish,  and 
let  it  separate,  observing  to  keep  it  still  covered. 
Put  the  vat  over  the  tub,  and  fill  it  with  curd, 
which  must  be  squeezed  close  with  the  hand,  and 
more  is  to  be  added  as  it  sinks,  and  at  length 
left  about  three  inches  above  the  edge  of  the 
vat.  Before  the  vat  is  in  this  manner  filled,  the 
cheese  cloth  must  be  laid  at  the  bottom  of  it, 
and,  when  full,  drawn  smoothly  over  on  all  sides. 
The  curd  should  be  salted  in  the  tub  after  the 
whey  is  out.  When  everything  is  prepared  as 
above  directed,  put  a  board  under  and  over  the 
vat,  then  place  it  in  the  press;  let  it  remain  2 
hours,  then  turn  it  out,  put  on  a  fresh  cheese 
cloth,  and  press  it  again  10  hours;  then  salt  it 
all  over,  and  turn  it  again  into  the  vat;  then 
press  it  again  24  hours.  The  vat  should  have 
several  small  holes  in  the  bottom  to  let  the  whey 
run  off. 

Cheese  (to  preserve  sound) — Wash  in  warm 
whey,  when  you  have  any,  wipe  it  once  a  month, 
and  keep  it  on  a  rack.  If  you  want  to  ripen  it, 
a  damp  cellar  will  bring  it  forward.  When  a 
whole  cheese  is  cut,  the  larger  quantity  should 
be  spread  with  butter  inside,  and  the  outside 
wiped  to  preserve  it.  To  keep  those  in  daily  use 
moist,  let  a  clean  cloth  be  wrung  out  from  cold 


Dairy  Dishes.  263 

water,  and  wrapped  round  them  when  carried 
from  table.  Dry  cheese  may  be  used  to  advantage 
to  grate  for  serving  with  maccaroni. 

Cream  Cheese  —  Put  5  quarts  of  strippings, 
that  is,  the  last  of  the  milk,  into  a  pan  with  2 
spoonfuls  of  rennet.  When  the  curd  is  come, 
strike  it  down  two  or  three  times  with  the  skim- 
ming-dish just  to  break  it.  Let  it  stand  2  hours, 
then  spread  a  cheese-cloth  on  a  sieve,  put  the 
curd  on  it,  and  let  the  whey  drain;  break  the 
curd  a  little  with  your  hand,  and  put  it  into  a 
vat  with  a  2-lb.  weight  upon  it.  Let  it  stand  12 
bours,  take  out,  and  bind  a  fillet  round.  Turn 
everyday  till  dry,  from  one  board  to  another; 
cover  them  with  nettles,  or  clean  dockleaves,  and 
put  between  two  pewter  plates  to  ripen.  If  the 
weather  be  warm,  it  will  be  ready  in  3  weeks. 

Sage  Cheese  —  Bruise  some  young  red  sage 
and  spinach  leaves,  press  out  the  juice,  and  mix 
it  with  the  curd;  then  proceed  as  with  other 
cheese. 

Cheese  Straws  —  Six  oz.  flour,  4  oz.  butter,  3 
oz.  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  little  cream,  salt^ 
white  pepper  and  cayenne. 

Roll  it  out  thin,  cut  into  narrow  strips,  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven,  and  serve  piled  high  and  very 
bot  and  crisp. 

Roast  Cheese  —  Three  oz.  Cheshire  cheese^ 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  4  oz.  grated  bread-crumbs,  3  oz. 
butter,  a  dessertspoonful  of  mustard,  salt  and 
pepper. 

Grate  the  cheese,  add  the  yolks,  bread-crumbs 
and  butter;  beat  the  whole  well  in  a  mortar  and 
add  the  mustard,  salt  and  pepper.  Make  some 
toast  cut  into  neat  slices  and  spread  the  paste 
thickly  on.  Cover  with  a  dish  and  place  in  the 
oven  till  hot  through,  then  uncover  and  let  the 
cheese  color  a  light  brown.    Serve  immediately* 


264  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Rainequins  —  Beat  2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
separately;  to  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  flour,  2  oz.  melted  butter  and  2  oz. 
cheese,  grated;  to  this  add  the  stiff  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  buttered  gein-pans, 
in  quick  oven,  about  15  minutes.     Eat  hot. 

Cheese  Dish  — Quarter  lb.  good,  fresh  cheese, 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  34  teaspoonful  dry  mustard,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Cut  the  cheese  into  thin  slices,  put  it  into  a 
*'spider"  or  saucepan,  and  pour  over  it  the  milk; 
mix  in  the  other  ingredients.  Stir  this  mixture 
all  the  time  while  over  the  fire.  Turn  the  con- 
tents into  a  hot  dish  and  serve  immediately. 

Cheese  Toast  —  Some  rich  cheese,  pepper  to 
"taste,  a  beaten  egg,  with  sufficient  milk  to  make 
it  of  the  consistency  of  cream. 

Grate  the  cheese  and  mix  with  the  other  in- 
gredients; warm  the  mixture  on  the  fire,  and 
when  quite  hot  pour  it  over  some  slices  of  hot 
buttered  toast.    Serve  immediately. 


BEVERAGES 

THE  making  of  tea  depends  upon  the  brand. 
Always  scald  the  pot  just  as  you  make 
the  tea.  A  general  rule  is :  "One  teaspoon- 
ful  for  each  person  and  one  for  the  pot."  Pour 
on  a  little  boiling  water  to  wet  the  tea.  A 
minute  or  two  later  add  a  cup  or  two  of  boiling 
water.  Allow  to  stand  and  add  what  boiling 
water  is  necessary  for  the  amount  of  tea  de- 
sired. This  develops  the  strength  of  the  tea 
and  keeps  it  hot.  Oeylon  tea  must  not  wait 
more  than  five  minutes,  as  after  that  it  takes  on 
an  unpleasant  taste.     Make  a  little,  and  often. 

To  make  good  coffee  is  the  simplest  and  yet 
one  of  the  most  important  things  that  pertain 
to  cooking,  but  comparatively  few  know  how  to 
do  it.  For  a  family  of  five  or  six,  take  i  cup 
good  ground  coffee  and  mix  with  it  the  white 
of  1  egg  and  a  little  water ;  put  it  in  the  coffee- 
pot, and  add  to  that  about  a  pint  of  cold  water. 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  set  it  on  the  back  of 
the  stove  and  add  boiling  water  sufficient  for 
use.  This,  with  cream  and  sugar,  makes  most 
delicious  coffee. 

Remember  in  making  coffee : 

That  the  same  flavor  will  not  suit  every  taste, 
but  that  every  one  may  be  suited  to  a  nicety  by 
properly  blending  two  or  more  kinds. 

That  equal  parts  of  Mocha,  Java  and  Rio 
will  be  relished  by  a  good  many  people. 

That  a  mild  coffee  can  be  made  dangerously 
strong  and  still  retain  the  mildness  of  flavor. 

That  the  enjoyment  of  a  beverage  and  slavish 
devotion  thereto  are  quite  different  things. 

255 


256  .  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

That  the  flavor  is  improved  if  the  liquid  is 
turned  from  the  dregs  as  soon  as  the  proper 
strength  has  been  obtained. 

That  where  the  percolation  method  is  used 
the  coffee  should  be  ground  very  fine  or  the 
strength  will  not  be  extracted. 

That  if  the  ground  coffee  is  put  into  the  water 
and  boiled,  it  should  be  rather  coarse ;  otherwise 
it  will  invariably  be  muddy. 

That  a  good  coffee  will  always  command  a 
fair  price,  but  that  all  high-priced  coffees  are 
not  necessarily  of  high  quality. 

That,  in  serving,  the  cups  and  cream  should 
be  warm;  the  cream  should  be  put  in  the  cup 
before  the  coffee  is  poured  in,  but  it  is  imma- 
terial when  the  sugar  is  added. 

That  a  level  teaspoonful  of  the  ground  coffee 
to  each  cup  is  the  standing  allowance,  from 
which  deviation  can  be  made  in  either  direction, 
according  to  the  strength  desired. 

Cocoa — Two  tablespoonfiijjs  cocoa,  1  breakfast 
cupfnl  boiling  milk  and  water. 

Put  sufficient  cold  milk  in  to  form  the  cocoa 
into  a  smooth  paste.  Now  add  equal  propor- 
tions of  boiling  milk  and  boiling  water,  mixing 
well.  Great  care  must  be  taken  that  the  milk 
does  not  burn,  or  it  will  impart  a  disagreeable 
flavor. 

Chocolate — Allow  2  sticks  of  chocolate  to  1 
pint  of  new  milk.  After  the  chocolate  is  scraped, 
either  let  it  soak  an  hour  or  so,  with  a  tabie- 
spoonful  of  milk  to  soften  it,  or  boil  it  a  few 
moments  in  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  water;  then,  in 
either  case,  mash  into  a  smooth  paste.  When 
the  milk,  sweetened  to  taste,  is  boiling,  stir  in 
the  chocolate  paste,  adding  a  little  of  the  boiling 


Beverages.  257 

milk  to  it  first  to  dilute  it  evenly.     Let  it  boil 
half  a  minute,  stir  it  well  and  serve  immediately. 

Ginger  Beer  —  One  and  one-fourth  lbs.  loaf 
sugar,  1  lemon,  2  oz.  best  white  ginger,  1  gallon 
boiling  water,  1  tablespoonful  German  yeast, 
and  ^  oz.  cream  of  tartar. 

Peel  the  lemon;  cut  the  inside  in  pieces. 
Crush  the  ginger,  add  the  sugar  and  cream  of 
tartar;  pour  over  all  the  boiling  water;  stir  well 
until  the  sugar  is  melted.  Let  it  stand  24  hours 
to  be  quite  cold,  then  stir  in  the  yeast,  which 
ought  to  be  previously  dissolved.  Stir,  and  strain 
through  a  coarse  cloth ;  then  bottle,  taking  care 
the  corks  are  secured.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  in 
hot  weather. 

Oatmeal  Drink — (Dr.Parkes) — "The  propor- 
tions are  }^  lb.  oatmeal  to  2  or  3  quarts  water, 
according  to  the  heat  of  the  day  and  the  work 
and  thirst;  it  should  be  well  boiled,  and  then  1 
or  13^  oz.  brown  sugar  added.  If  you  find  it 
thicker  than  you  like,  add  3  quarts  water.  Be- 
fore drinking  it  shake  up  the  oatmeal  well 
through  the  liquid.  In  summer  drink  this  cold; 
in  winter,  hot.  You  will  find  it  not  only  quenches 
thirst,  but  will  give  you  more  strength  and  en- 
durance than  any  other  drink.  If  you  cannot 
boil  it,  you  can  take  a  little  oatmeal  mixed  with 
cold  water  and  sugar,  but  this  is  not  so  good; 
always  boil  it  if  you  can.  If  at  any  time  you 
have  to  make  a  very  long  day,  as  in  harvest,  and 
cannot  stop  for  meals,  increase  the  oatmeal  to 
}/2.  lb.,  or  even  ^  lb.,  and  the  water  to  3  quarts  if 
you  are  likely  to  be  very  thirsty.  If  you  cannot 
get  oatmeal,  wheat  flour  will  do,  but  not  quite  so 
well." 

Those  who  try  this  recipe  will  find  that  they 
can  get  through  more  work  than  when  using 
beer,  and  that  they  will  be  stronger  and  healthier 

17 


258  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

at  the  end  of  the  harvest.  Cold  tea  and  skim 
milk  are  also  found  to  be  better  than  beer,  but 
not  equal  to  the  oatmeal  drink. 

Lemonade  (1) — Six  large  lemons  and  1  lb. 
loaf  sugar. 

Rub  the  sugar  over  the  rinds  to  get  out  the 
flavor,  then  squeeze  out  all  the  juice  on  the 
sugar;  cut  what  remains  of  the  lemons  into 
slices,  and  pour  on  them  a  quart  of  boiling 
water;  when  this  has  cooled,  strain  it  onto  the 
juice  and  sugar,  and  add  as  much  more  water 
(cold)  as  will  make  it  palatable. 

Lemonade  (2) — One  oz.  tartaric  acid,  1  lb.  loaf 
sugar,  1  pint  boiling  water,  and  20  or  30  drops 
essence  of  lemon. 

To  be  kept  in  a  bottle  and  mixed  with  cold 
■water,  as  desired. 

Lemon  Syrup  —  Boil  until  clear  1  pint  lemon 
juice,  strained,  and  3  lbs.  loaf  sugar,  stirring 
constantly,  and  add  }^  pint  water  to  prevent  its 
being  too  thick.  The  juice  of  a  dozen  lemons 
will  give  about  a  pint. 

To  Keep  Lemon  Juice  —  Buy  the  fruit  when 
cheap,  when  not  quite  ripe;  cut  off  the  peels,  and 
roll  the  fruit  in  your  hand,  so  as  to  make  them 
part  with  the  juice  readily.  Squeeze  the  juice 
into  a  china  basin,  strain  through  a  muslin  which 
will  not  allow  the  least  pulp  to  pass.  Have  ready 
}£-  and  3^-oz.  phials  (quite  dry),  fill  with  the 
juice  so  as  to  allow  }4  teaspoonful  sweet  oil  in 
each.  Cork  tightly,  and  set  them  upright  in  a 
cool  place.  When  wanted  for  use,  wind  some 
clean  cotton  round  a  skewer,  and,  dipping  it  in, 
the  oil  will  be  attracted.  The  juice  will  be  quite 
clear;  the  rinds  can  be  dried  for  grating. 

Peppermint  Cordial  —  One  lb.  loaf  sugar,  1 
pint  boiling  water. 


Beverages.  259 

Simmer  10  minutes,  then  stir  in  1  tablespoon- 
ful  honey;  whennearly  cold, add  30  drops  essence 
of  peppermint.  Bottle  for  use.  Four  table- 
spoonfuls  to  a  tumbler  of  cold  or  hot  water 
makes  a  delicious  drink.  Essence  of  ginger  can 
be  used  in  the  same  way. 

Raspberry  Syrup  —  Fill  a  i^ -gallon  fruit- jar 
with  ripe  red  raspberries,  pour  over  them  good 
cider  vinegar;  cover  tightly,  and  set  away  in  a 
cool,  dark  place  for  a  week.  Put  on  the  fire  and 
let  come  to  a  scalding  point,  strain  through  a 
jelly  bag;  to  the  juice  add  pint  for  pint  of 
sugar.  Boil  gently  about  20  minutes,  skimming 
constantly.  Bottle,  seal,  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place.  Add  a  wineglassful  to  a  glass  of  iced 
water.     It  is  excellent. 

Ginger  Pop  —  Allow  4  quarts  warm  water,  1 
oz.  white  ginger  root,  2  lemons,  1  lb.  white  sugar, 
3^  tablespoon  cream  tartar,  and  }4  ^^V  soft 
yeast.  Cut  the  ginger  root  fine  and  boil  in  a 
little  of  the  water;  grate  in  the  yellow  rind  only 
of  the  lemons,  and  put  in  the  pulp  and  juice; 
when  nearly  cold,  add  the  yeast.  Put  all  in  a 
stone  jar  in  a  warm  place  24  hours,  then  bottle 
for  use. 

Currant  Vinegar  — Two  quarts  black  cur- 
rants, 1  pint  best  vinegar,  1}^  lbs.  white  sugar. 

Well  bruise  the  currants  and  place  into  a  basin 
with  the  vinegar;  let  it  stand  3  or  4  days,  and 
then  strain  into  an  earthen  jar;  add  the  sugar, 
set  the  jar  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water  and  boil 
for  an  hour.  When  cold,  bottle;  it  is  the  better 
for  keeping. 

Raspberry  Tinegar  —  To  4  quarts  red  rasp- 
berries put  enough  vinegar  to  cover,  1  lb.  sugar 
to  every  pint  of  juice. 


260  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Let  the  raspberries  and  vinegar  stand  for  24 
hours;  scald  and  strain;  add  sugar,  boil  20  min- 
utes, skim  well,  and  when  cold  bottle. 

Koumiss  —  Put  1  gill  buttermilk  into  a  quart 
of  new,  rich  milk,  and  add  4  lumps  white  sugar; 
see  that  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Put  in  a  covered 
vessel,  in  a  warm  place,  for  10  hours;  it  will  then 
be  thick.  Pour  from  one  pitcher  to  another,  so 
that  it  may  become  uniformly  thick,  then  bottle 
and  set  away  in  a  warm  place.  It  will  be  good 
in  24  hours  in  summer  and  36  in  winter.  The 
bottles  must  not  only  be  tightly  corked,  but  the 
corks  tied  down.  Shake  the  bottles  well  before 
opening.  This  is  an  excellent  drink  for  people 
with  weak  digestion,  and  is  also  good  for  chil- 
dren. 

Temperance  Cnp  —  Pare  the  yellow  rind  very 
thinly  from  twelve  lemons;  squeeze  the  juice 
over  it  in  an  earthen  bowl,  and  let  it  stand  over 
night,  if  possible.  Pare  and  slice  thinly  a  very 
ripe  pineapple,  and  let  it  lie  over  night  in  l^  lb. 
powdered  sugar.  If  all  these  ingredients  cannot 
be  prepared  the  day  before  they  are  used,  they 
must  be  done  very  early  in  the  morning,  because 
the  juices  of  the  fruit  need  to  be  incorporated 
with  the  sugar  at  least  12  hours  before  the  bev- 
erage is  used.  After  all  the  ingredients  have 
been  properly  prepared,  as  above,  strain  off  the 
juice,  carefully  pressing  all  of  it  out  of  the  fruit; 
mix  it  with  2  lbs.  powdered  sugar  and  3  quarts 
ice  water,  and  stir  it  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Then  strain  it  again  through  a  muslin  or  bolting- 
cloth  sieve,  and  put  it  on  the  ice  or  in  a  very  cold 
place  until  it  is  wanted  for  use. 


SICK-ROOM  COOKERY 

WITHIN  the  last  few  years  great  changes 
have  occurred  in  the  ideas  entertained 
by  the  medical  profession  as  to  what  is 
proper  food  for  invalids.  As  a  rule,  patients 
are  allowed  to  eat  about  what  is  desired,  care 
being  taken  of  course  not  to  overload  the 
stomach.  There  are  cases,  however,  where  there 
is  little  wish  for  food,  and  where  the  thought- 
ful nurse  must  look  for  something  which  is 
daintily  appetizing  as  well  as  nourishing,  and 
at  the  same  time  easy  of  digestion.  To  meet 
this  want  the  recijDes  below  are  given. 

Never  set  before  the  sick  a  large  quantity  of 
food ;  tempt  with  a  very  small  portion  dehcately 
cooked  and  tastefully  served.  If  not  eaten 
directly,  remove  from  the  sick-room  without 
delay,  as  no  food  should  be  allowed  to  stand 
there.  Do  not  give  the  same  food  often,  as 
variety  is  charming.  Never  keep  the  sick  wait- 
ing; always  have  something  in  readiness  —  a 
little  jelly,  beef-tea,  stewed  fruit,  gruel,  etc.  It 
will  be  found  more  tempting  to  serve  any  of 
these  in  glasses.  If  much  milk  is  used,  keep  it 
on  ice.  Let  all  invalid  cookery  be  simple;  be 
careful  to  remove  every  particle  of  fat  from  broth 
or  beef -tea  before  serving. 

Beef-Tea  — Take  l  lb.  lean  beef,  1  pint  water, 
and  i^saltspoonful  salt. 

Cut  the  meat  into  very  small  pieces,  carefully 
removing  the  fat.  Put  into  a  stone  jar  with 
the  salt  and  water;  cover  with  the  lid,  and  tie  over 
a  piece  of  thick  brown  paper.  Put  it  into  a 
moderate  oven,  simmer  slowly  for  4  hours,  and 
strain. 

261 


262  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Beef- Tea  Custard — This  may  be  served  alone, 
either  hot  or  cold,  or  a  few  small  pieces  can  be 
put  in  a  cup  of  beef-tea,  which  is  thus  transferred 
into  a  kind  of  soupe  royale.  Beat  up  an  egg  in 
a  cup,  add  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough  strong 
beef-tea  to  half  fill  the  cup;  butter  a  tiny  mould 
and  pour  in  the  mixture.  Steam  it  for  20  min- 
utes, and  turn  it  out  in  a  shape. 

Mutton  Broth  —  Cut  in  small  pieces  1  lb.  of 
lean  mutton  or  lamb,  and  boil  it,  unsalted,  in  1 
quart  cold  water,  keeping  it  closely  covered 
until  it  falls  to  pieces.  Strain  it  and  add  1  table- 
spoonful  of  rice  or  barley,  soaked  in  a  little  warm 
water.  Simmer  for  3^  hour,  stirring  often,  then 
add  4  tablespoonfuls  milk,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  if  liked.  Simmer 
again  5  minutes,  taking  care  that  it  does  not 
burn.  Chicken  broth  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way.  Crack  the  bones  well  before  putting 
them  into  the  water. 

Veal  Broth — One  and  3^  lbs.  veal,  1  doz. 
sweet  almonds,  1  qt.  water,  a  little  salt,  1  pt.  boil- 
ing water. 

Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  veal,  and  simmer 
gently  in  the  water  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  pint; 
blanch  and  pound  the  almonds  till  they  are  a 
smooth  paste,  then  pour  over  them  the  boiling 
water  very  slowly,  stirring  it  all  the  time  till  it  is 
as  smooth  as  milk;  strain  both  the  almond  and 
veal  liquors  through  a  fine  sieve  and  mix  well 
together;  add  the  salt,  and  boil  up  again. 

Chicken  Broth  —An  old  fowl,  3  pints  water, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  a  blade  of  mace,  6  or  8  pepper- 
corns, a  very  small  chopped  onion,  a  few  sprigs 
sweet  herbs. 

Cut  up  the  fowl  and  pnt  it,  bones  as  well,  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  water,  salt,  mace,  peppercorns, 
onion  and  sweet  herbs;  let  it  simmer  very  gently 


Sicki'oom  Cookery.  263 

till  the  meat  is  very  tender,  which  will  take  about 
3  hours,  skimming  well  during  the  time.  Strain 
carefully  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

Eg'g'  Broth — An  egg,  3^  pint  good  unflavored 
veal  or  mutton  broth  quite  hot,  salt,  toast. 

Beat  the  egg  well  in  a  broth  basin;  when 
frothy  add  the  broth,  salt  to  taste,  and  servo  with 
toast. 

Beef  Broth — One  lb.  good  lean  beef,  2  quarts 
cold  water,  ^  teacup  tapioca,  a  small  piece  of 
parsley,  an  onion,  if  liked,  pepper  and  salt. 

Soak  the  tapioca  1  hour,  cut  in  small  pieces 
the  beef,  put  in  a  stew  pan  the  above  proportion 
of  water,  boil  slowly  (keeping  well  covered)  1% 
hours,  then  add  the  tapioca,  and  boil  14  hour 
longer.  Some  add  with  the  tapioca  a  small 
piece  of  parsley  and  a  slice  or  two  of  onion. 
Strain  before  serving,  seasoning  slightly  with 
pepper  and  salt.  It  is  more  strengthening  to 
add,  just  before  serving,  a  soft  poached  egg. 
Rice  may  be  used  instead  of  tapioca,  straining 
the  broth,  and  adding  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
rice  (soaked  for  a  short  time),  and  then  boiling 
^  hour. 

Scotch  Broth  —  The  liquor  in  which  a  leg 
of  mutton,  piece  of  beef  or  old  fowl  has  been 
boiled,  barley,  vegetables  chopped  small,  a  cup 
of  rough  oatmeal  mixed  in  cold  water,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

Add  to  the  liquor  some  barley  and  vegetables, 
chopped  small,  in  sufficient  quantity  to  make 
the  broth  quite  thick.  The  necessary  vegetables 
are  carrots,  turnips,  onions  and  cabbage,  but 
any  others  may  be  added;  old  (not  parched)  peas 
and  celery  are  good  additions.  When  the 
vegetables  are  boiled  tender  add  the  oatmeal  to 
the  broth,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     This  very 


264  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

plain  preparation  is  genuine  Scotch  broth  as 
served  in  Scotland;  with  any  coloring  or  herbs, 
etc.,  added,  it  is  not  real  Scotch  broth.  It  is  ex- 
tremely palatable  and  wholesome  in  its  plain 
form. 

Broth  (Beef,  Mutton  and  Yeal)  —  Two  lbs. 
lean  beef,  1  lb.  scrag  of  veal,  1  lb.  scrag  of  mut- 
ton, some  sweet  herbs,  10  peppercorns,  5  quarts 
water,  1  onion. 

Put  the  meat,  sweet  herbs  and  peppercorns 
into  a  nice  tin  saucepan,  with  the  water,  and 
simmer  till  reduced  to  3  quarts.  Remove  the  fat 
when  cold.     Add  the  onion,  if  approved. 

Mutton  Cutlets  (Delicate)  —  Two  or  3  small 
cutlets  from  the  best  end  of  a  neck  or  loin  of 
mutton,  1  cupful  of  water  or  broth,  a  little  salt, 
and  a  few  peppercorns. 

Trim  the  cutlets  very  nicely,  cut  off  all  the  fat, 
place  them  in  a  flat  dish  with  enough  water  or 
broth  to  cover  them,  add  the  salt  and  pepper- 
corns and  allow  them  to  stew  gently  for  2  hours, 
carefully  skimming  off  every  particle  of  fat 
which  may  rise  to  the  top  during  the  process. 
At  the  end  of  this  time,  provided  the  cutlets  have 
not  been  allowed  to  boil  fast,  they  will  be  found 
extremely  tender.     Turn  them  when  half  done. 

Rabbit  (Stewed)  —  Two  nice  young  rabbits, 
1  quart  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  blade 
of  mace,  salt  and  pepper. 

Mix  into  a  smooth  paste  the  flour  with  }4  glass 
of  milk,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk;  cut  the 
rabbits  up  into  convenient  pieces;  place  in  a 
stewpan  with  the  other  ingredients  and  simmer 
gently  until  perfectly  tender. 

Meat  Jelly  (l)  —  Beef,  isinglass,  1  teacupful 
of  water,  salt  to  taste. 

Cut  some  beef  into  very  small  pieces  and 
carefully    remove   all   the   fat.      Put   it    in    an 


Sickroom  Cookery.  265 

earthen  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  the  best 
isinglass  (it  is  more  digestible  than  gelatine) 
until  the  jar  is  full.  Then  add  a  teacupfui 
of  water  with  a  little  salt,  cover  it  down  closely. 
and  cook  it  all  day  in  a  very  slow  oven.  In  the 
morning  scald  a  jelly  mould  and  strain  the  liquor 
into  it.  It  will  be  quite  clear,  except  at  the 
bottom,  where  will  be  the  brown  sediment  such 
as  is  in  all  beef  tea,  and  it  will  turn  out  in  a 
shape.  It  is,  of  course,  intended  to  be  eaten 
cold,  and  is  very  useful  in  cases  where  hot  food 
is  forbidden,  or  as  a  variety  from  the  usual  diet. 

Meat  Jelly  (2)— A  calf's  foot,  1}4  lbs.  neck  of 
veal  or  beef,  a  slice  or  two  of  lean  ham,  1  small 
onion,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  little  spice,  3  quarts  of  water. 

Simmer  slowly  5  or  6  hours,  and  strain.  The 
above  makes  a  strong  but  not  highly  flavored 
jelly.  More  ham  or  any  bones  of  unboiled  meat, 
game  or  poultry  will  improve  it.  The  liquor  in 
which  chicken  or  veal  has  been  boiled  should, 
when  at  hand,  be  used  instead  of  water.  Meat 
jellies  keep  better  when  no  vegetables  are  stewed 
in  them. 

Baked  Hominy — To  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled 
hominy  (small  kind)  allow  2  cups  of  milk,  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
and  3  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  yolks  and  whites 
separately.  Work  the  yolks  into  the  hominy, 
alternately  with  the  butter.  When  thoroughly 
mixed,  put  in  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  go  on 
beating  while  you  soften  the  batter  gradually 
with  milk.  Be  careful  to  leave  no  lumps  in  the 
batter.  Lastly,  stir  in  the  whites  and  bake  in  a 
buttered  pudding-dish  until  light,  firm  and  deli- 
cately browned.     It  may  be  used  as  a  dessert. 


266  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Strengthening  Blanc-Mange  —  One  pint 
milk,  3^  oz.  isinglass,  rind  of  i^  small  lemon,  2 
oz.  sugar,  yolks  of  3  fresh  eggs. 

Dissolve  the  isinglass  in  the  water,  strain 
through  muslin,  put  it  again  on  the  fire  with  the 
rind  of  the  half  lemon  cut  very  thin,  and  the 
sugar;  let  it  simmer  gently  until  well  flavored, 
then  take  out  the  lemon  peel,  and  stir  the  milk 
to  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs;  pour  the  mix- 
ture back  into  the  saucepan,  and  hold  it  over  the 
fire,  keeping  it  stirred  until  it  begins  to  thicken; 
put  it  into  a  deep  basin  and  keep  it  moved  with 
a  spoon  until  it  is  nearly  cold,  then  pour  it  into 
the  moulds,  which  have  been  laid  in  water,  and 
set  it  in  a  cool  place  till  firm. 

Milk  Punch  —  One-half  pint  new  milk  and  1 
new-laid  egg. 

Set  the  milk  in  a  clean  saucepan  over  a  mod- 
erate fire;  while  it  is  heating  beat  the  egg  to  a 
froth  in  a  basin  or  a  large  cup.  When  the  milk 
begins  to  bubble,  skim  off  the  froth  as  it  forms, 
and  pour  it  intc  the  whipped  egg,  quickly  beat- 
ing the  milk  in;  repeat  until  the  egg  is  well  mixed 
(without  curdling)  with  about  half  the  now  boiled 
milk.  Pour  the  remainder  from  the  saucepan 
into  the  mixture  in  basin,  and  qaickly  pour  the 
whole  back  into  the  pan,  then  again  into  the 
basin,  and  so  on  until  it  is  all  frothy  and  well 
mixed.  This  cooks  the  eggs  suflBciently.  Add  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  lump  or  more  of  loaf-sugar,  a  few 
gratings  of  nutmeg  or  ginger  according  to  taste, 
and  serve  in  a  tumbler,  to  be  taken  while  hot. 
Foi  cases  of  spasmodic  pain  from  flatulency,  or 
other  cause,  where  brandy  is  often  recommended, 
this  is  much  safer  to  use. 

A  Fever  Drink  (1)  —  A  little  tea  sage,  2  sprigs 
of  balm,  a  very  small  quantity  of  wood  sorrel,  a 
small  lemon,  3  pints  of  boiling  water. 


Sickroom  Cookery.  267 

Put  the  sage,  balm  and  wood  sorrel  into  a  stone 
jug,  having  previously  washed  and  dried  them, 
peel  thin  the  lemon,  and  clear  from  the  white; 
slice  and  put  a  piece  of  the  peel  in;  then  pour 
on  the  water,  sweeten  and  cover. 

A  Fever  Drink  (2)  —  One  oz.  pearl  barley,  3 
pints  water,  1  oz.  sweet  almonds,  a  piece  of 
lemon  peel,  a  little  syrup  of  lemons  and  capil- 
laire. 

Wash  well  the  barley;  sift  it  twice,  then  add 
the  water,  sweet  almonds  beaten  fine,  and  the 
lemon  peel;  boil  till  you  have  a  smooth  liquor, 
then  add  the  syrup. 

Apple  Water  —  Some  well  flavored  apples,  3 
or  4  cloves,  a  strip  of  lemon  peel,  boiling  water. 

Slice  the  apples  into  a  large  jug  (they  need  be 
neither  peeled  nor  cored).  Add  the  cloves  and 
lemon  peel,  and  pour  boiling  water  over.  Let  it 
stand  a  day.  It  will  be  drinkable  in  12  hours  or 
less. 

Currant  Water  —  One  quart  red  currants,  3^ 
pint  raspberries,  2  quarts  water;  syrup — 1  quart 
of  water,  about  ^  lb.  of  sugar. 

Put  the  fruit  with  the  water  over  a  very  slow 
fire  to  draw  the  juice,  for  3^  hour.  They  must 
not  boil.  Strain  through  a  hard  sieve  and  add 
syrup.  Other  fruits  may  be  used  in  the  same 
way. 

Sago  Jelly  —  Boil  a  teacupful  of  sago  in  4 
pints  of  water  until  quite  thick;  when. cold  add  a 
pint  of  raspberry  juice  pressed  from  fresh  fruit, 
or  half  the  quantity  of  raspberry  syrup;  add 
enough  white  sugar  to  sweeten  to  the  taste,  and 
boil  fast  for  5  minutes.  Pour  into  the  mould. 
Use  a  little  cream  with  the  jelly. 

Flax-Seed  Lemonade  — Into  a  covered  vessel 
pour  1  quart  of  boiling  water  upon  4  tablespoon- 


268  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

fuls  of  flax-seed.  Steep  it  for  3  hours,  and  then 
add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  sweeten  to  the 
taste.  If  too  thick,  add  cold  water.  Good  for 
colds. 

Bread  Panada  —  Toast  to  a  light  brown  sev- 
eral slices  of  stale  baker's  bread.  Pile  them  in 
a  bowl  with  sugar  and  a  litte  salt  sprinkled 
between  them.  Cover  with  boiling  water;  cover 
tightly  and  set  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water, 
letting  it  simmer  gently  until  the  contents  of  the 
bowl  are  like  jelly.  Eat  while  warm,  with  a 
little  powdered  sugar  and  nutmeg. 

Slippery-Elm  Bark  Tea  —  Break  the  bark 
into  bits,  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  cover  it 
closely  and  let  it  stand  until  cold.  Put  sugar 
and  ice  in  for  summer  diseases,  or  add  lemon 
juice  for  colds. 

Rice  Milk  —  Two  tablespoonfuls  rice,  1  pint 
milk,  1  tablespoonful  ground  rice  (if  wanted 
thick,  2  will  be  required),  a  little  cold  milk. 

Put  the  rice  into  the  pint  of  milk;  boil  it  until 
done,  stirring  to  prevent  it  burning.  Put  the 
ground  rice  with  a  little  cold  milk,  mix  smooth, 
and  stir  it  in;  boil  for  about  15  minutes. 

Thick  Milk  may  be  made  in  the  same  way  as 
"  rice  milk,"  only  substituting  flour  for  rice, 
thickening  and  sweetening  to  taste.  Five  min- 
utes' boiling  will  do. 

Chamomile  Tea  —  One  oz.  dried  chamomile 
flowers,  ^  oz.  dried  orange  peel,  1  quart  boiling 
water. 

Put  the  chamomile  into  a  jug  with  the  ora;nge 
peel.  Pour  over  it  the  boiling  water,  and  stand 
in  the  back  of  the  stove,  just  close  enough  to  the 
fire  to  keep  it  simmering  till  the  strength  of  the 
peel  and  flower  is  drawn  out;  then  strain  off  for 
use. 


Sickroom,  Cookery,  269 

Dandelion  Tea  —  Six  or  8  dandelion  roots, 
according  to  size,  1  pint  boiling  water. 

Pull  up  the  dandelion  roots  and  cut  off  the 
leaves;  wash  the  roots  well  and  scrape  off  a  little 
of  the  skin.  Cut  them  up  into  small  pieces  and 
pour  the  boiling  water  on  them.  Let  stand  all 
night;  then  strain  through  muslin.  It  should  be 
quite  clear  and  of  a  light  brown  color.  About 
^  glassful  should  be  taken  at  a  time.  This 
decoction  should  be  made  only  in  small  quanti- 
ties, as  it  will  keep  fresh  only  two  or  three  days. 

Jelly  Water — Stir  a  tablespoonful  of  currant 
or  other  jelly  into  }^  pint  water;  keep  it  cold 
and  give  as  occasion  requires.  Excellent  in 
fevers. 

Toast  Water  —  Toast  a  large  slice  of  wheat 
bread  so  that  it  is  a  deep  brown  all  over,  but  not 
blackened  or  burnt.  Lay  in  a  covered  earthen- 
ware vessel,  cover  it  with  boiling  water,  and  let 
it  steep  until  cold.  Strain  it  and  add  a  little 
lemon  juice,  unless  forbidden  by  the  physician. 

FOR  CHILDREN. 

For  Diarrhoea  —  If  the  child  has  symptoms 
of  diarrhoea  or  summer  complaint,  take  the  caul 
of  mutton  or  lamb,  and  simmer  in  a  pint  of  wa- 
ter, dusting  in  a  little  flour  and  a  little  salt.  This 
soup  is  nutritious,  and  allays  the  irritation  of  the 
bowels. 

Arrowroot,  made  quite  thin,  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sweet  cream,  is  nutritious  and  harmless. 
Do  not  make  the  food  for  infants  too  rich. 

Milli  Porridge  — Take  1  spoonful  of  Indian 
meal,  and  1  of  white  flour;  wet  to  a  paste  with 
cold  water;  put  the  paste  into  2  cups  of  boiling 
■water,  and  boil  20  minutes;  add  2  cups  of  milk 


270  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  cook  10  minutes  more, 
stirring  often.  Eat  with  sugar  and  milk  stirred 
in  while  hot. 

For  Teetlling"  —  Tie  a  teacup  of  flour  closely 
in  a  cloth,  and  boil  for  1  hour.  When  cold,  grate 
fine  —  enough  to  thicken  a  pint  of  half  milk 
and  half  water  the  consistence  of  porridge.  Add 
a  litte  salt. 

Barley  Water  —  Pick  over  and  wash  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  pearl  barley;  soak  it  3^  hour  in 
a  very  little  lukewarm  water,  and  stir,  without 
draining,  into  2  cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  salted 
a  very  little.  Simmer  1  hour,  stirring  often. 
Strain,  and  add  2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar.  When 
milk  disagrees  with  infants,  barley  water  can 
often  be  used. 

Digestion  of  Various  Foods. 

Easy  of  Digestion.  —  Arrowroot,  asparagus, 
cauliflower,  baked  apples,  oranges,  grapes, 
strawberries,  peaches. 

Moderately  Digestible. — Apples,  raspberries, 
bread,  puddings,  rhubarb,  chocolate,  coffee, 
porter. 

Hard  to  Digest.  —  Nuts,  pears,  plums,  cher- 
ries, cucumbers,  onions,  carrots,  parsnips. 

TIME    EEQUIBKD    FOB    DIGESTION. 

Hrs.  Min. 

Apples,  sweet 1  30 

"       sour 2  00 

Beans,  pod,  boiled 2  30 

Beef,  fresh,  rare,  roasted 3  00 

"         "       dried 3  30 

"        "      fried 4  00 

Beets,  boiled 3  45 


Valuable  Tables.  271 

Hrs.  Min. 

Bread,  wheat,  fresh 3  30 

»       corn 3  15 

Butter  (melted), 3  30 

Cabbage,  with  vinegar,  raw 2  00 

"         boiled 4  30 

Cheese  (old,  strong) 3  30 

Codfish 2  00 

Custard,  baked 2  45 

Duck,  domestic,  roasted 4  00 

"      wild,                "       4  30 

Eggs,  fresh,  hard  boiled 3  30 

"          "       soft 3  00 

Eggs,  fresh,  fried 3  30 

Goose,  roast 2  00 

Lamb,  fresh,  boiled 2  30 

Liver,  beef,  boiled 2  00 

Milk,  boiled 2  00 

"      raw 2  15 

Mutton,  roast 3  15 

"         broiled 3  00 

"        boiled   3  00 

Oysters,  raw 2  55 

"        roast 3  15 

"         stewed 3  30 

Parsnips,  boiled 2  30 

Pork,  fat  and  lean,  roast 5  15 

"         "            "      boiled 3  15 

"         "           "      raw 3  00 

Potatoes,  boiled 3  30 

"         baked 2  30 

Rice,  boiled 1  00 

Sago,      "      1  45 

Salmon,  salted,  boiled 4  00 

Soup,  beef,  vegetable 4  00 

"       chicken 3  00 

"       oyster 3  30 

Tapioca,  boiled 2  00 

Tripe,  soused,  boiled 1  00 


272  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

Hrs.  Min. 

Tront,  fresh,  boiled  or  fried 1  30 

Turkey,  domestic,  roast 2  00 

"         wild,  roast 2  18 

Turnips,  boiled 3  30 

Veal,  fresh,  broiled 4  00 

"      fresh,  fried 4  30 

Venison  steak,  broiled 1  35 

Fat,  Water  and  Muscle  Properties  of  Food. 

100  PARTS.  Water.    Muscle.    Fat. 

Cucumbers 97.0         1.5  1.0 

Turnips 94.4         1.1  4.0 

Cabbage 90.0        4.0  5.0 

Milk,  cows' 86.0        5.0  8.0 

Apples 84.0         5.0  10.0 

Eggs,  yolk  of 79.0      15.0  27.0 

Potatoes 75.2         1.4  22.5 

Veal 68.5       10.1  1.65 

Eggs,  white  of 53.0       17.0  .0 

Lamb 50.5       11.0  35.0 

Beef 50.0       15.0  30.0 

Chicken 46.0       18.0  32.0 

Mutton 44.0       12.5  40.0 

Pork  38.5       10.0  50.0 

Beans  14.8       24.0  57.7 

Buckwheat 14.2         8.6  75.4 

Barley 14.0       15.0  68.8 

Corn 14.0       12.0  73.0 

Peas 14,0       23.4  60.0 

Wheat 14.0       14.6  69.4 

Oats 13.6       17.0  66.4 

Rice 13.5         6.5  79.5 

Cheese 10.0       65.0  19.0 

Butter 100.0 

Perceiitag-e  of  Nutrition. 

Raw  cucumbers,   2;    raw  melons,   3;   boiled 
turnips,  41;  milk,  7;  cabbage,  7J;  currants,  10; 


Valuable  Tables.  273 

whipped  eggs,  13;  beets,  14;  apples,  16; 
peaches,  20;  boiled  codfish,  21;  broiled  venison, 
22;  potatoes,  22^;  fried  veal,  24;  roast  pork, 
24 ;  roast  poultry,  26 ;  raw  beef,  26 ;  raw  grapes, 
27;  raw  plums,  29;  broiled  mutton,  30;  oat- 
meal porridge,  75 ;  rye  bread,  79 ;  boiled  beans. 
87;  boiled  rice,  88;  barley  bread,  88;  wheat 
bread,  90;  baked  corn  bread,  91;  boiled  barley, 
92 ;  butter,  93 ;  boiled  peas,  93 ;  raw  oils,  94. 
Relative  Yaliie  of  Food  (Beef  par). 

Oysters,  22;  milk,  24;  lobsters,  50;  cream, 
56;  codfish,  68;  eggs,  72;  turbot,  84;  mutton, 
87;  venison,  89;  veal,  92;  fowl,  94;  herring,  100; 
beef,  100;  duck,  104;  salmon,  108;  pork,  116; 
butter,  124;  cheese,  155. 

Percentage  of  Car})on  in  Food. 

Cabbage,  3 ;  beer,  4 ;  carrots,  5 ;  milk,  7 ;  pars- 
nips, 8;  fish,  9;  potatoes,  12;  eggs,  16;  beef,  27 
bread,  27 ;  cheese,  36 ;  peas,  36 ;  rice,  38 ;  corn,  38 
biscuit,  42;  oatmeal,  42;  sugar,  42;  flour,  46 
bacon,  54;  cocoa,  69;  butter,  79. 

Foot-Tons  of  Energy  per  Ounce  of  Food. 

Cabbage,  16;  carrots,  20;  milk,  24;  ale,  30; 
potatoes,  38-,  porter,  42;  beef,  55;  egg,  57; 
ham,  65;  bread,  83;  egg  (yolk),  127;  sugar, 
130;  rice,  145;  flour,  148;  arrowroot,  151;  oat- 
meal, 152;  cheese,  168;  butter,  281. 
Loss  of  Meat  in  Cooking. 

lOOlbs.  raw  beef —  67  lbs.    roast. 

100    "           "         =  74    "    boiled. 

400    "     raw  mutton =75    "      roast. 

100    "     raw  fowl =80    "       roast. 

100    "           "         =  87   "     boiled. 

100    "    raw  fish =94    "    boiled. 


274  White  Ribbon  Cook  Book. 

The  Percentage  of  Starch 

In  common  grains  is  as  follows,  according  to 
Prof.  Yeoman s:  Rice  flour,  84  to  85;  Indian 
meal,  77  to  80;  oatmeal,  70  to  80;  wheat  flour, 
39  to  77;  barley  flour,  67  to  70;  rye  flour,  50 
to  61;  buckwheat,  52;  peas  and  beans,  42  to 
43;  potatoes,  (75  per  cent,  water),  13  to  15. 

The  Degrees  of  Sugar 
In  various  fruits  are:   Peach,    1.6;  raspberry, 
4.0;  strawberry,  5.7;  currant,   6.1;  gooseberry, 
7.2;  apple,  7.9;  mulberry,  9.2;  pear,  9.4;  cherry, 
10.8;  grape,  14.9. 

Measures  for  Housekeepers. 

Wheat  flour 1  lb.  is 1  quart. 

Indian  meal 1  lb.  2  oz.  is 1  quart. 

Butter  (soft) 1  lb.  is 1  quart. 

Granulated  sugar ...  1  lb.  is 1  quart. 

Powdered  sugar 1  lb.  1  oz,  is 1  quart. 

Best  brown  sugar ...  1  lb.  2  oz.  is 1  quart. 

Eggs 10  eggs  are 1  lb. 

Flour 8  quarts  are 1  peck. 

Flour 4  pecks  are 1  bush. 

Liquids.  —  Thirty-two  large  tablespoonfuls 
make  a  pint;  8  large  tablespoonfuls,  1  gill. 
Four  gills  make  1  pint;  2  pints,  1  quart;  4 
quarts,  1  gallon.  An  ordinary-sized  tumbler 
holds  half  a  pint;  a  wine-glass,  half  a  gill. 
Thirty-five  drops  are  equal  to  one  teaspoonful. 


BLANK  PAGES 
/ 

FOR 

ADDITIONAL  RECIPES. 


\ 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  011  791  851  8 


plW 


