NYPL  RESEARCH  LIBRARIES 


3  3433  07736250  1 


c 


MICROFILMED! 


'  > 


THE  NEW  YORK 
PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


ASTOR,  LENOX   AND 

TILD£N  FOUNDATIONS 

J*  L 


I  am  very  happy  indeed,  to  endorse  the  "  Win  the  War"  Cook  Book- 
now  being  compiled  by  the  St.  Louis  County  Woman's  Committee. 

In  addition  to  being  a  very  great  boon  to  the  homemakers  of  this 
generation,  this  book  will  be  of  great  interest  and  value  from  a  historical 
viewpoint  and  as  a  souvenir  of  this  period. 

Yours  cordially, 


u . 


Chairman  Woman's  Committee 

Council  of   National    Defense 

Missouri  Division 


"WIN  THE  WAR" 

COOK  BOOK 


Published  by 

ST.  LOUIS  COUNTY  UNIT 

Woman's  Committee' 

COUNCIL  OF  NATIONAL  DEFENSE  t 

Missouri  Division  . 


Sold  for  War  Work  or  War  Relit-t  (>'• 


PRICE  FIFTY  CENTS 


Compiled  by 
REAH  JKAXXKTTE  LYNCH,  B.  S. 

I9I8-7 


V 


THE  NEW  YORK 

PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

798753  A 


The  Mothers 

of  our  Soldier  and  Sailor 
Boys 


«•  • 


G 


O  back  to  the  simple  life,  be  contented 
with  simple  food,  simple  pleasures, 
simple  clothes.  Work  hard,  pray  hard, 
play  hard.  Work,  eat,  recreate  and 
sleep.  Do  it  all  courageously. 

We  have  a  victory  to  win. 

—HOOVER 


HER    1918    COOh    BOOK 


:V 


'•         {       """   ./ 

'         * 


Preface 

The  only  principles  of  public  conduct  worthy  a  man  or  gentle- 
man are  to  sacrifice  ease,  estate,  health,  applause  and  even  life 
to  the  sacred  call  of  country.  JAMES  OTIS  1761 

We  here  highly  resolve  that  the  dead  shall  not  have  died  in 
vain — that  this  nation  under  God  shall  have  a  new  birth — free- 
dom— and  that  government  of  the  people,  by  the  people  and  for 
the  people  shall  not  perish  from  the  earth. 

ABRAHAM  LINCOLN,  1863. 

We  dedicate  our  lives  and  our  fortunes,  everything  that  we  are, 
and  everything  that  we  have.  WOODROW  WILSON,  1917. 

The  great  light  of  liberty,  justice  and  equality  that  burst  upon 
the  world  in  1776  is  today  threatened  to  be  put  out  with  a  hand 
of  blood  and  iron. 

Women  of  America,  awake!  We  have  a  definite  part  to  play 
in  this,  the  greatest  tragedy  in  the  world's  history.  We  need 
not  form  ourselves  into  BATTALIONS  of  death,  but  into  BAT- 
TALIONS of  life.  Save  food  and  we  save  life! 

We  are  unwilling  to  believe  that  the  women  of  America  are 
slackers,  in  other  words,  traitors  to  our  beloved  country  and  its 
beautiful  emblem,  within  whose  folds  are  wrapped  all  that  makes 
existence  worth  while.  A  woman,  if  there  be  such,  who  says,  "I 
will  not  use  corn  in  place  of  wheat,"  who  says,  "I  will  not  save 
i.  teaspoonful  of  sugar  each  day,"  who  says,  "I  will  eat  beef, 
mutton  and  pork  daily,"  is  as  truly  a  traitor  to  her  country  as 
was  Benedict  Arnold  or  Aaron  Burr. 

The  object  of  this  War  Cook  Book  is  to  place  within  one  cover 
all  that  which  has  been  printed  in  manifold  forms  of  the  best 
thought  of  those  capable  of  telling  us  how  to  use  intelligently 
the  substitutes  which  our  Government  has  asked  us  to  use. 

Ours  is  the  splendid  burden  of  feeding  the  world.  It  can  be 
done  in  but  one  way:  The  way  of  voluntary  and  larger  resolu- 
tion and  action  of  the  whole  people  in  every  shop  and  every 
kitchen  and  at  every  table  in  the  land. 


8  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

The  Woman's  Committee  Council  of  National  Defense  have  pub- 
lished this  book  with  no  other  idea  or  purpose  than  to  help  our 
fellow-women  do  the  little  part  which  old  Uncle  Sam  has  asked 
us  to  do. 

So  let  us  substitute  food  value  for  food  value. 

We  send  our  book  forth  with  a  prayer  that  it  may  play  its 
little  part  in  bringing  liberty,  justice  and  peace  not  only  to  our 
own  country,  but  to  the  world. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

We  have  been  greatly  assisted  in  the  compilation  of  this  book 
by  the  National  and  State  Food  Administration,  to  whom  we  ex- 
tend our  cordial  thanks. 

We  are  particularly  indebted  to  the  Domestic  Science  Instruc- 
tors of  the  State  University  and  of  the  Preparatory  Schools  of 
the  city -of  St.  Louis  and  St.  Louis  County,  for  their  advice  and 
generous  help. 

For  encouragement  and  material  assistance,  we  are  especially 
grateful  to  Mr.  T.  B.  Boyd  and  Mr.  J.  Hal  Lynch. 

Woman's   Committee   Council  National   Defense, 

St.  Louis  County  Unit. 

ENDORSEMENTS 

The  United  States  Food  Administration,  in  returning  our  manu- 
script, writes: — 

We  thank  you  for  submitting  the  matter  to  us  and  regret  the 
delay  in  its  return  to  you.  May  we  take  this  opportunity  also 
of  expressing  our  deep  appreciation  of  your  obviously  sincere  and 
effective  effort  to  aid  the  vital  work  of  Food  Conservation. 

It  is  becoming  increasingly  evident  day  by  day  that  food  will 
win  the  war,  and  it  is  largely  through  the  work  of  women  like 
yourself  and  your  associates  that  food  will  be  effectively  used  to 
sustain  the  health  and  efficiency  of  our  allies  and  our  own  people. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration, 
States  Division  Department. 

Dr.  Anna  Howard  Shaw,  Chairman  Woman's   Committee   Coun- 
cil National  Defense,  says  in  her  letter  from  Washington: — 
I  think  your  plan  a  good  one.     It  should  be  carried  out  without 


Preface  9 

delay  because  more  and  more  we  are  going  to  be  restricted  as  to 
the  quality  and  kinds  of  food  we  can  use.  The  sooner  we  obtain 
definite  information  with  good  recipes,  the  better  it  will  be  for 
us  all. 

Mrs.  George  Gellhorn.  Chairman  Woman's  Central  Committee 
on  Food  Conservation  and  State  Chairman  Woman's  Committee, 
says: — 

It  is  with  the  greatest  interest  that  I  have  heard  of  your  plan 
for  a  conservation  cook  book.  The  ability  with  which  your  Com- 
mittee is  handling  this  matter  justifies  me  in  the  belief  that  the 
work  will  be  a  real  contribution  to  food  conservation  in  this  state 
and  trust  throughout  the  country.  I  congratulate  you  and  assure 
you  every  sort  of  co-operation  in  my  power  as  State  and  City 
Chairman  of  Foods  and  give  you  my  hearty  endorsement  and  con- 
gratulations. 

The  Food  Administration  of  St.  Louis,  in  writing  says:- 
The   Food   Administration   of    St.    Louis   heartily   endorse     your 
"Win  the  War"  Cook  Book.  This  should  be  a  very  valuable  medium 
for  informing  the  housewife  how  she  can  demonstrate  her  patriot- 
ism in  her  home. 

F.  B.  Mumford,  Federal  Food  Administrator  for  Missouri,  writes 
to  the  Chairman  of  the  Committee: — 

This  war  will  not  be  won  by  the  last  500,000  fighting  men  but 
by  the  last  500,000  bushels  of  wheat.  We  are  under  the  impelling 
necessity  of  conserving  wheat,  meat,  fat  and  sugar. 

Any  educational  movement  which  will  result  in  saving  any  of 
these  vital  war  food  products  has  the  full  endorsement  of  the 
United  States  Food  Administration.  Enclosed  I  am  sending  you 
some  recipes  which  are  authorized  by  the  United  States  Food  Ad- 
ministration. 

Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Still,  President  of  the  Missouri  Federation  of 
Woman's  Clubs,  says: — 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  add  my  name  to  the  distinguished 
number  of  men  and  women  who  have  endorsed  the  "Win  the  War" 
Cook  Book.  I  hope  the  book  may  have  the  sale  it  deserves. 


10  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

ST.  LOUIS  COUNTY  UNIT 

Woman's  Committee  Council  of  National  Defense 
Mrs.  J.  Hal  Lynch,  Chairman Clayton,  Mo. 

Mrs.  W.  T.  Donovan,  Vice-Chairman Normandy,  Mo. 

Mrs.   William   H.   Davies,   Secretary.  _ Clayton,   Mo. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Eggebrecht,  Chairman  of  Finance Webster  Groves 

Mrs.  Emil  Laun,  Chairman  Courses  Instruction-       _Clayton,  Mo. 

Mrs.  Walter  M.  Langtry,  Chairman  Red  Cross Clayton,  Mo. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Lacy,  Chairman  Speakers Webster  Groves 

Miss  Marion    Griffin,   Chairman   of   Child   Welfare   and 

Maintenance  of   Existing   Social   Agencies- _St.   Louis   County 

Town  Chairmen  (Executive  Council) 

Mrs.  Robt.  H.  McMath__.  Mrs.  B.   J.    Buss_       ..Jennings 

Webster  Groves  Mrs.  R.    J.    Winters 

Mrs.  P.   O.  Bruno_       _Wellston  Richmond  Heights 

Mrs.  Warren  McGinnis Mrs.  H.  Woerther 

Wellston  Baldwin  and  Manchester 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Allen_  Mrs.  John  Phelan         -Allenton 

University  City  Mrs.  W.  W.  Henderson 

Mrs.  E.   S.   Sieber Kirkwood  Bridgeton 

Mrs.  F.  P.  Knabb. -Valley  Park  Mrs.  D.    E.    Horton_ -Bridgeton 

Mrs.  Marie  Reine  F.  Penaloza_  Miss  Ruth    Nolte Black   Jack 

Ferguson  Mrs.  Lewis   S.  Doyle 

Mrs.  H.  Von  Schrink-  Creve   Coeur 

Florissant  Mrs.  H.   C.  Harwood 

Mrs.  Chas.    C.    Craft-  Des  Peres 

Florissant  Mrs.  H.  G.  Koerber 

Mrs.  Thomas    F.    Shields-  Hampton    Park 

Eureka  Mrs.  Paul   D.   Walsh- -Overland 

Mrs.  Wm.   D.   Buchannan_  Miss  Ida    Post-        __Pattonville 

Pine  Lawn  Miss  Cora   Schall   

Mrs.  B.   F.   Tate-  Rock  Hill   S.  Dist. 

Hancock   S.   Dist.  Mrs.  A.    Blanner Shrewsbury 

Mrs.  Geo.    Eades  -Midland  Mrs.  F.  J.  Gould- __Vinita  Park 

Mrs.  A.   E.  Wiedmer-  Mrs.  T.   L.   Fitzwilliams. 

Maplewood  Lincoln   S.  Dist. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Davidson  Miss   Elsa   Bruenjes Glendale 

Normandy 


Measurements  11 

MEASUREMENTS 

Level  measurements  make  exact  recipes  possible  because  the 
quantity  measured  is  uniform,  the  same  table  may  be  used  for 
solids  and  liquids,  and  measures  can  be  easily  divided. 

A  spoonful  is  a  spoon  level  full.  Use  a  straight-edged  knife 
or  the  spatula  to  obtain  a  level  surface.  Half  a  spoonful  is  a 
spoonful  divided  lengthwise.  One-fourth  of  a  spoonful  is  a  half 
spoonful  divided  crosswise,  the  division  line  a  little  nearer  the 
handle  end  of  the  bowl. 

A  cupful  is  a  cup  level  full.  Fill  the  cup  and  level  the  top 
with  a  spatula  knife. 

Do  not  shake  or  press  down  dry  material,  as  flour  or  sugar. 
Measure  flour  after  sifting  once.  To  measue  a  fat,  as  butter, 
by  the  cupful,  pack  solidly  and  level.  To  measure  less  than  one- 
half  cupful,  use  a  tablespoon.  Pack  solidly  into  the  spoon  and 
level. 

A  speck  is  that  which  may  be  held  on  the  tip  of  a  vegetable  knife. 


TABLE  OF  EQUIVALENTS 

3  tsp. 1       tbsp. 

16       tbsp.    1       c. 

2       c. 1  pt. 

2       pts.    1  qt. 

4  qts.    1  gal. 

2       gal.   1  pk. 

2       c.  sugar __   1  Ib. 

4       c.  flour 1  Ib. 

2  c.  solid  fat 1  Ib. 

1       pt.  liquid 1  Ib. 

1       tbsp.   liquid  %   oz. 

1       tbsp.    butter    %   oz. 

1       rounded  tbsp.  of  flour l/2  oz. 

3  c.  corn  meal 1       Ib. 

IV2  pt.  corn  meal 1       Ib. 

1       solid  pt.  chopped  meat__  1       Ib. 
1       rounded  tbsp.  flour %  oz. 

*10     eggs    __  1  Ib. 

1       pt.   gran.   sugar_  1  Ib. 

1       pt.  brown  sugar _13  oz. 

21/6   c.   powdered   sugar  1  Ib. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg_  oz. 

Butter  size  of  %   egg_  1  oz. 


12  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

One  medium-sized  lemon  contains  from  four  to  four  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  of  juice. 

One  medium-sized  orange  contains  from  five  to  eight  table- 
spoons of  juice. 

One  egg  contains  about  three  tablespoons  unbeaten  yolk  and 
white. 

When  using  oil  to  replace  butter  or  lard  use  one-third  less. 

When  using  syrup  to  replace  sugar  subtract  the  liquid  in  the 
syrup  from  the  liquid  in  the  recipe. 


•Approximately. 

ABBREVIATIONS 

c._  cupful 

tbsp._  _tablespoonful 

tsp _teaspoonful 

spk __speck 

lb._  .pound 

qt _quart 

pt pint 

gal gallon 

pk._  _peck 

"A   LESSON   IN  BUYING" 

Yet  another  method  of  studying  food  value  is  to  be  found  in  a 
consideration  of  weight;  cost  and  measure.  Such  a  common  com- 
modity as  potatoes,  of  course,  are  always  purchased  by  weight, 
but  it  is  very  important  to  realize  that  there  are  15  pounds  of 
potatoes  in  a  peck  and  that  these  15  pounds  also  represent  about 
50  medium-sized  potatoes.  In  other  v/ords,  if  the  housekeeper 
buys  a  pound  of  potatoes  she  will  get  three  medium-sized  pota- 
toes, and  a  little  one  thrown  in  for  full  weight.  A  pound  of 
prunes  may  be  ordered  without  any  special  interest  by  the 
woman  buyer,  and  she  may  get  either  large  or  small  prunes,  de- 
pending upon  the  grocer's  wishes,  while  a  wise  buyer  would 
stipulate  the  size  wanted  because  she  would  know  that  in  a  pound 
of  small  prunes  she  would  get  about  40  prunes,  while  if  they  were 
large  there  would  be  about  28. . 

The  following  table  shows  the  relation  of  weight  and  measure 
and  also  brings  about  the  difference  in  the  weight  of  contents 
of  the  cans  of  different  sizes.  In  the  case  of  canned  pork  and  beans, 
the  No.  1  can,  cost  15  cents,  weighs  11  ounces,  while  the  No.  2 


Lesson  in  Buying  13 

can,  cost  20  cents,  weighs  21  ounces.  In  the  latter  can,  the  cost 
of  the  additional  10  ounces  is  5  cents.  If  the  housekeeper  used 
condensed  milk  in  quantity  it  is  better  for  her  to  buy  the  16 
ounce  can,  as  the  cost  per  ounce  is  much  less  than  if  she  purchases 
the  6  ounce  can.  Of  course,  it  may  be  better  economy  for  the 
woman  to  buy  the  No.  2  can  of  vegetables,  but  this  is  true  only 
when  the  No.  2  can  gives  her  exactly  enough  for  one  meal  for  her 
family.  If  there  is  a  serving  left  over,  it  is  evidently  wiser  for 
her  to  buy  the  No.  3  can,  because  then  she  has  enough  for  two 
meals  and  with  different  methods  of  preparation,  will  run  no  risk 
of  monotony. 

It  seems  clear,  then,  that  several  elements  enter  into  intelli- 
gent buying  of  food.  One  who  enlists  in  that  service  ought  to 
have  a  clear  conception  of  the  relation  of  these  units  of  weights, 
cost  and  measures. 

TABLE  OF   WEIGHTS   AND  MEASURES 

Material.  Weight.  Measure. 

Apricots    1  lb. 75       pieces 

Bananas 1  lb. 3       large 

Beans,    Navy    1  lb. 2}/3  cups 

Beans,   canned: 

String,    No.    2 1  lb.  2  oz 1%  cups,  drained 

Lima,  No.  2 1  lb.  4  oz l2/3  cups,  drained 

Bread: 

Graham    12  oz._  -14%   in.  slices 

Rye,  Ward's 1  lb 21 V2  in.  slices 

White,  Ward's 1  lb.  2  oz 16%   in.  slices 

Whole   wheat,   Ward's 1  lb.  4  oz 15%   in.  slices 

Butter    1  lb.  .  __48       squares 

Milk,  condensed 6  oz._  %   cup 

16  oz.__      17/9   cups 

Molasses,    No.    2%_  2  Ibs.  6  ozs._     2%   cups 

Pineapple: 

No.   1   flat 9  oz 5       slices 

No.   2  tall 1  lb.  3  oz 10       slices 

Prunes : 

Small    1  lb. _40       prunes 

Large  1  lb. 28-30  prunes 

Tapioca: 

Instant 10  oz 13/7  cups 

Minute    10  oz._ 13/7  cups 

Pearl    1  lb 21/7  cups 

1  ounce   of  sugar  measures '2  level  tablespoons. 
l/3  ounce  of  butter  measures   2  level  tablespoons. 

2  ounces   of  flour  measures    %  cup. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 


14  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

MEAL  PLANS 

Study  your  meals.  Plan  them  for  at  least  three  days  in  ad- 
vance. This  helps  you  to  buy  to  better  advantage,  gives  variety 
in  material  and  preparation. 

Ask  yourself  the  following  questions  about  your  meal: 

Does  this  plan  mean — 

1.  The  use  of  home-grown  products  and  thus  allow  the  rail- 
roads to   be   hauling  supplies   for  the   army  instead   of  food  for 
my  family? 

2.  The  exchange  of  milk,  cheese,  eggs,  fish,  game  and  partial 
exchange  of  beans,  nuts  and  peas  for  beef,  mutton,  pork?     Beans, 
nuts  and  peas  are   not  meat  substitutes,  but   meat  savers.     Soy 
bean  is  an  exception. 

3.  The  use  of  barley,  buckwheat,  corn,  oats,  potatoes  and  rye 
instead  of  wheat? 

4.  Plenty  of  whole  milk  for  the  children  and,  if  possible,  for 
adults  ? 

5.  Twelve  ounces   of  fat  per   adult  per  week  and   six   ounces 
per  child  per  week? 

6.  The   substitution   of   honey,   molasses,   corn   syrup   or   other 
syrup  for  sugar,   so   as  to  reduce  the   amount  of  sugar  used  to 
three  pounds  or  less  per  person  per  month? 

7.  Meals  adapted  to  the  season  and  pocketbook? 

U.  S.  Food  Administration.  ' 

FOLLOW  THESE  DIRECTIONS 

The  Food  Administration  asks  everyone  to  maintain  rigidly  a 
minimum  of  at  least: 

ONE  WHEATLESS  day  each  week  and  one  WHEATLESS 
MEAL  each  day;  the  wheatless  day  to  be  Wednesday.  By  wheat- 
less  we  mean  eat  no  wheat  products. 

ONE  MEATLESS  day  each  week  which  shall  be  Tuesday,  and 
one  MEATLESS  MEAL  each  day.  By  meatless  we  mean  to  eat 
no  red  meat — beef,  pork,  mutton,  veal,  lamb;  no  preserved  meat — 
beef,  bacon,  ham,  or  lard. 

SUGAR — You  can  materially  reduce  sugar  by  reducing  the  use 
of  candy  and  sweet  drinks.  We  will  make  every  endeavor  to  see 
that  the  country  is  provided  with  a  supply  of  household  sugar  on 
the  basis  of  three  pounds  of  sugar  for  each  person  per  month. 
Do  not  consume  more.  U.  S.  Food  Administration. 


Food  Groups  15 

CALENDAR  OF   PATRIOTIC   SERVICE 

SUNDAY — One  wheatless  meal,  one  meatless  meal. 

MONDAY--Wheatless  day,  one  meatless  meal. 

TUE-SDAY — Meatless  day,  porkless  day,  one  wheatless  meal. 

WEDNESDAY — Wheatless  day,  one  meatless  meal. 

THURSDAY — One  meatless  meal,  one  wheatless  meal. 

FRIDAY — One  meatless  meal,  one  wheatless  meal. 

SATURDAY — Porkless  day,  one  wheatless  meal,  one  meatless 
meal. 

EVERY  DAY — Save  wheat,  meat,  fats,  sugar  to  create  pro- 
vision for  our  armies  and  the  allies. 

Temporarily  to  save  wheat,  Food  Administration  asks  you  to 
observe  beefless  and  porkless  Tuesday,  but  not  meatless  meals 
and  porkless  Saturday. 

STUDY  THESE  FIVE  FOOD  GROUPS 

(Sources.) 

1.  Carbohydrates: 

Commercial  and  metabolised  products. 
Sugars : 

Glucose,  Dextrose — Grapes,  sweet  corn,  onions. 
Fructose,    Fruit    sugar — Fruits,    honey,    hydrolysis    of    su- 
crose. 

Sucrose,  Cane  sugar — Fruits,  sugar  beet,  sugar  cane, 
sorghum  canes,  palm  sugar,  sugar  maple,  pineapples, 
carrots. 

Lactose,  Milk  sugar — Milk  of  all  mammals. 
Maltose,  Malt  sugar — By  diastatic  action  on  germinating 

seeds,  malt  and  malt  products. 
Starches: 

Starch — Grains,   roots,   tubers,   bulbs,    stems,    leaves. 
Dextrin — Brown  flour — By  heating  flour. 

2.  Proteins: 

Meats.  Milk. 

Fish.  Cheese. 

Poultry.  Beans. 

Game.  Peas. 

Rabbits.  Cereals. 

Eggs.  Nuts. 

3.  Fats: 

Commercial  products.  Vegetable  fats: 
Animal  fats:  Troco. 

Butter.  Crisco. 

Lard.  Vegetable  oil: 
Part   animal  fat:  Cottonseed  oil. 


'Win   the    War"    Cook  Book 


Oleomargarine. 


Corn  oil. 


Cottolene.  Olive  oil. 

Snow  Drift.  Peanut  oil. 

4.  Mineral    (chiefly  in  vegetables,  fruits,  milk,  eggs): 
Salts : 

Calcium.  Iron.                    Sodium.             Sulphur. 

Phosphorous.  Potassium.          Chlorine.           Magnesium. 

5.  Water. 


6.     Vitamines: 


Fat  soluble. 


COMPOSITION   OF 

Barley:  Protein. 

Pealed  barley 8.5 

Barley,  entire  grain 10.5 

Patent  barley  flour 8.0 

Buckwheat: 

Entire  grain 10.7 

Flour 8.7 

Maize   (Indian   Corn): 

Whole   10.0 

Corn  meal  (old  process)-  9.0 
Corn  meal  (new  process)-  7.8 
Hominy  8.3 

Oats: 

Oatmeal    16.1 

Rolled   oats    16.7 

Rice: 

Cured  rice 8.02 

Polished  rice 7.18 

Rye: 

Flour 6.8 

Meal 13.6 

Wheat: 

Whole   wheat   flour_ 12.26 

Graham   flour  _.  -13.3 

Shorts    12.65 

Bran  -14.02 


CEREALS. 

Fats.     Carbo. 

1.1  77.8 

2.2  72.8 
1.7  79.35 


Water   so^ble. 

Ash.  Water. 

1.3  11.3 

2.6  11.9 

0.65  10.3 


2.0 
1.6 

4.3 
4.3 
1.3 

0.6 

7.2 
7.3 

1.96 

0.26 

0.9 
2.0 

2.24 
2.2 
2.44 
4.39 


62.8 
76.2 

71.8 
72.5 

78.5 
79.0 

67.5 
66.2 

76.05 
79.36 

78.7 
71.5 

73.67 
71.4 

74.58 
65.54 


1.8 
1.0 

1.5 
1.3 
0.6 


1.9 

2.1 

1.15 

0.46 

0.7 
1.5 


12.3 
11.9 

10.7 
11.6 
12.0 
11.8 

7.3 
7.7 

11.88 
12.34 

12.9 
11.4 


1.02  10.81 
1.8  11.31 
1.72  8.61 
6.06  9.99 
Sherman. 

Note:  Use  whole  wheat  flour  instead  of  white  flour  because  it 
has  more  food  value,  and  helps  in  the  conservation  value  of  the 
whole  grain. 

Use  graham  flour  with  white  flour  to  restore  food  value  to 
white  flour. 

However,  the  use  of  whole  wheat  and  graham  flours  is  not  re- 
garded as  saving  wheat. 

Note:  The  changes  which  take  place  in  the  foodstuffs  after 
they  have  been  absorbed  from  the  digestive  tract  are  included 
under  the  general  term  "metabolism." 


Wheat  Substitutes 


Housekeepers  are  asking  why  they  are  requested  to  substitute 
corn  for  wheat  flour.  Because  of  the  countries  allied  with  us 
only  Italy  raises  corn  and  is  accustomed  to  its  use.  War  time 
is  not  a  good  time  to  try  to  introduce  a  new  product.  Besides, 
there  is  practically  no  corn-milling  machinery  in  Europe  except 
in  Italy,  and  corn  meal  can  not  be  shipped  in  large  quantities 
owing  to  the  fact  that  it  spoils  readily.  The  whole  problem  can 
be  met  if  our  loyal  housewives  will  substitute  one  pound  of  corn 
or  other  cereal  flour  per  week  per  person.  We  all  like  corn;  a 
very  trifling  change  in  our  diet  will  release  for  our  Allies  mil- 
lions of  bushels  of  wheat. 

HERBERT  HOOVER. 

Note:  Subject  to  change,  just  now  we  are  required  to  buy  with 
every  pound  of  flour  one  pound  of  other  cereal. 

Modify  Your  Own  Recipes 

If  you  have  good  recipes  for  bread  of  any  kind  make  them  con- 
form to  food  conservation  by  omitting  sugar  (using  substitutes) 
and  animal  fats  (using  vegetable  fats)  and  by  using  one-fourth 
wheat  substitute. 

Try  for  yourself  with  your  own  recipe. 

Many  people  think  milk  is  necessary  for  good  bread,  but  it  is 
not,  although  it,  of  course,  adds  to  the  food  value,  and  is  there- 
fore advisable  when  it  can  be  afforded.  Water,  milk 'and  water, 
whey,  potato  water  or  rise  water  may  be  used  for  the  liquid. 

Use  white  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  rice,  squash  and  pumpkin 
as  substitutes  for  the  wheat  flour. 

Those  who  can  save  more  than  the  one-fourth  will  help  make  up 
for  those  who  cannot,  or  are  not  willing  to  do  their  share. 

A  fair  bread  can  be  rmde  on  a  50-50  basis. 

YEAST  BREAD 

You  must  know  that  in  using  substitutes  in  the  making  of  War 
Bread  that  about  two-thirds  of  the  mixture  should  be  wheat  or 
rye  flour.  These  are  the  only  two  of  the  cereals  which  contain 
gluten,  which  is  a  protein  substance,  which  gives  strength  to  the 


18  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

dough,  and  holds  the  expansion  made  by  the  use  of  leavening. 
The  gluten  which  is  in  the  dough  retards  the  escape  of  the 
carbon  dioxide  and  the  tension  of  the  warm  gas,  produced  by 
the  action  of  the  yeast,  expands  the  cells;  then  the  dough  is  puffed 
up  and  becomes  light  and  spongy. 

In  the  raising  of  bread,  the  conditions  should  be  favorable, 
first,  for  the  breaking  of  starch  by  the  diastase  into  a  variety  of 
sugar,  and  second,  by  the  action  of  the  yeast,  a  part  of  the  sugar 
is  changed  into  carbon  dioxide  and  alcohol. 

In  the  manipulation  of  the  dough,  extreme  cleanliness  is  neces- 
sary. The  dough  should  be  a  smooth,  uniform,  well  aerated  mix- 
ture, which  may  be  obtained  by  thorough  beating,  light,  firm 
kneading.  It  should  be  kept  at  the  temperature  most  favorable 
to  the  growth  of  the  yeast  plant  (77-95°  F.;  25-35°  C.)  until  the 
gas  produced  by  the  yeast  in  growth  has  leavened  the  mixture 
double  its  bulk.  Kneading  down  occasionally  will,  by  stretching 
the  gluten,  increase  the  feathery  appearance  of  the  crumb. 

It  is  then  molded  into  loaves  to  fit  an  individual  loaf  tin 
(91/^x41/^x31/^)  and  carefully  pressed  into  the  corners  of  the  tin 
to  assure  straight  edges.  The  loaves  are  set  in  a  warm  place 
till  the  expansion  of  the  gas  has  raised  them  double  their  bulk, 
and  then  baked  in  an  oven  heated  to  the  temperature  of  350-570°  F. 
The  oven  should  not  be  too  hot  at  first  until  the  crust  is  set, 
which  should  take  the  first  15  minutes.  During  this  time  the 
heat  should  be  gradually  diminished  to  prevent  too  thick  and 
too  brown  a  crust  before  baking  is  accomplished.  This  will  take 
50  to  60  minutes  to  cook  the  starch  and  destroy  the  yeast  in  the 
center  of  the  loaf. 

On  taking  from  the  oven,  the  bread  should  be  cooled  in  cur- 
rents of  air  and  then  put  away,  without  wrapping,  in  a  closed  tin 
or  earthen  jar. 

BARLEY   BREAD 

1       cup  liquid,  */3  to  &  cake  yeast  softened  in 

1       tsp.  salt,  !/4  cup  lukewarm  water, 

2l/3  cups  white  flour,  ll/6  cups  barley  flour. 

Long  Process — Scald  the  liquid,  cool  to  lukewarm,. add  the  salt, 
the  softened  yeast  and  half  the  flour.  Beat  thoroughly,  cover  and 
let  rise  until  very  light.  Then  add  the  remainder  of  the  flour. 
Knead,  cover  and  let  rise  again  until  double  in  bulk.  Shape 
into  a  loaf,  cover  and  let  rise  again  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake. 


Wheat    Substitutes  19 

Short  Process — Follow  the  directions  as  given  above,  but  add 
all  the  flour  at  once. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

BUCKWHEAT   BREAD 

IVz   cups  milk,  1       tsp.   salt, 

74   cup  molasses,  tbsp.  fat, 

2l/2   cups  buckwheat  flour,  72   yeast  cake, 

172   cups  white  flour,  y2   cup  lukewarm  water. 

Add  yeast  to  lukewarm  water.  Scald  milk  and  put  in  mixing 
bowl  with  fat  and  salt.  When  lukewarm  add  molasses  and  yeast. 
Knead  in  the  flour  slowly  and  let  rise  until  it  doubles  in  bulk. 
Beat  it.  down  and  put  in  greased  pan.  Let  rise  until  almost  double 
in  bulk,  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Jennie  W.  Gilmore, 
Domestic    Science   Instructor,    McKinley    High    School. 

BRAN  BREAD 

4       cups  bran,  172   tsp.   salt, 

2       cups  wheat  flour,  3       tbsp.  fat, 

72  cup     molasses,  7£  yeast  cake, 

2       cups  milk  or  water,  ^4   cup  lukewarm  water. 

Prepare   and  bake  as  any  light  bread. 

Jennie  W.   Gilmore, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  McKinley  High  School. 

COTTONSEED   MEAL   BREAD 

2       cups  milk  or  water,  17£   tsp.  salt, 

2       cups  cottonseed   meal,  2       tbsp.  fat, 

4       cups  flour,  2       tbsp.  sugar, 

V2  yeast  cake,  74  cup  lukewarm  water. 

Prepare  and  bake  as  shorts  bread. 

Jennie  W.  Gilmore, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  McKinley  High  School. 

CORN  MEAL  YEAST  BREAD 

lx/2   cups  liquid,  2  72   cups  flour, 

y&   to   74  yeast  cake,  %  cup  corn  meal,  white  or  yel- 

172  tsp.  salt,  low. 
More  if  needed. 

Note:  One-fourth  cup  of  liquid  yeast  may  be  used  in  place  of 
the  V4  yeast  cake,  and  74  cup  of  liquid  when  making  bread  by 
the  short  process.  For  the  long  process  sponge  method,  % 
cake  of  compressed  yeast  or  2  tbsp.  of  liquid  yeast  is  sufficient. 
For  the  short  process  use  more  yeast. 


20  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

Long  Process — 1.  Soften  the  yeast  in  V2  cup  of  lukewarm  water. 
Add  %  cup  of  white  flour.  Beat  thoroughly,  cover,  and  if  the 
sponge  is  to  stand  over  night,  let  rise  at  room  temperature  (about 
65°  to  70°  F.)  and  at  80r  F.,  if  the  time  is  to  be  shortened.  When 
this  sponge  is  so  light  that  the  slightest  touch  causes  it  to  fall 
it  is  ready  for  the  addition  of  the  ingredients. 

2.  Stir  the  corn  meal  into  the  remaining  cup  of  salted  water 
and   heat   to    the    boiling   point   over   the    direct    flame.      Cook    20 
minutes  in  a  double  boiler  or  over  hot  water.     Cool  until  it  feels 
warm  to  the  hand  (about  90°  to  95°  F.). 

3.  Beat    the    cooked    corn    meal    into    the    light    sponge    pre- 
pared as  directed  above.     Add  gradually   sufficient  flour  t6  make 
a  dough  somewhat  stiffer  than  for  ordinary  bread.     It  is  impos- 
sible to   give  the   quantity   of   flour   exact  because   different   sam- 
ples of  flour  may  not  absorb  the  same  amounts  of  liquid.     Knead 
a  few  minutes  until  the  dough  is  smooth  and  elastic. 

Continue  according  to  general  directions  for  making  yeast  bread. 

Short  Process — Cook  the  corn  meal  in  1%  cups  of  liquid,  cool  to 
about  90°  F.,  add  the  yeast  softened  in  the  remaining  *4  cup  of 
liquid  (or  the  liquid  yeast)  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Pro- 
ceed from  this  point  as  directed  above. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

(The  long  process  usually  produces  better  results  in  this  bread.) 

GRAHAM  BREAD 

1       cup  boiling  water,  1  Vz  tsp.   salt, 

1  cup  milk,  %  yeast  cake, 

x/4   cup  molasses,  %   cup  lukewarm  water, 

%  cup  graham  flour.,  5/3  white  flour. 

Prepare  and  bake  as  entire  wheat  bread. 

Jennie  W.   Gilmore, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  McKinley  High  School. 

DATE  BREAD 

2  cups  warm  corn  meal  mush,     2       tbsp.  fat, 
*4   cup  brown  sugar,  1       tsp.  salt, 
%   cup  lukewarm  water,  Vz  yeast  cake. 

1       cup  dates,  stoned  and  cut, 

Mix  mush,   sugar,   salt   and  fat,   add  yeast  mixed   in   lukewarm 
water  and  flour  to  knead,  cover  and  let  rise   till   double   in  bulk, 


Wheat    Substitutes  21 

while  kneading  add  dates.     Shape,  let  rise  in  pan  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Jennie  W.   Gilmore, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  McKinley  High  School. 

HOMINY  BREAD 

1       cup  warm  cooked  hominy,  %  tbsp.  sugar, 

^4   cup  fat,  1  tsp.  salt, 

1       cup  scalded  milk,  Vz  cake  yeast, 

Flour  to  make  dough,  a/4  cup  lukewarm  water. 

Scald  milk,  rdd  sugar  and  fat,  when  lukewarm  add  dissolved 
yeast  cake  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  sponge.  When  light  add 
hominy  and  salt,  also  enough  flour  to  make  soft  dough,  knead  well. 
When  light  shape  into  loaves  and  let  rise  twice  its  size.  Bake  in 
hot  oven.  ,  ;j  TO] 

•  -*.   1-uilO 

Miss  J.   Crowder, 
Domestic    Science    Instructor    Central    High    School. 

NUT  BREAD 

1  tsp.  shortening,  1       yeast  cake, 

2  tsp.  molasses,  Vz   cup  white  flour, 

l/2  tsp.   salt,  2%   cups  whole  wheat  flour, 

1       cup  milk  or  water,  or  %          1       cup  chopped  nuts. 
of  each, 

Same  as  for  white  bread.  When  mixture  has  risen  first  time 
add  the  nuts  before  the  rest  of  the  flour. 

Miss  Ella  D.  Rode, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor  Patrick  Henry  School. 

PEANUT  BREAD 

1  cup  lukewarm  liquid,  1       or  2  tbsp.  syrup, 

1  tsp.   salt,  Vs   to  %  cake  yeast  softened  in 

3  cups  flour  (more  if  desired),  ^   cup  lukewarm  water. 
1  cup  peanut  meal  or  flour, 

Long  Process — Follow  the  directions  given  for  the  long  process 
under  Corn  Meal  Bread,  making  the  sponge  with  part  of  the 
liquid  and  flour,  salt  and  yeast.  When  light  add  the  rest  of  the 
liquid,  the  syrup,  the  peanut  meal  and  the  remainder  of  the 
flour.  Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic,  adding  more  flour  if  neces- 
sary to  secure  the  proper  consistency.  Cover  and  let  rise  until 
double  in  bulk.  Shape  into  a  loaf,  cover  and  let  rise  2~y2  times 
the  original  bulk,  and  bake. 


22  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

Short  Process — Dissolve  the  salt  and  syrup  in  the  cup  of  luke- 
warm liquid,  add  to  the  softened  yeast  and  add  all  to  the  mix- 
ture of  the  flour  and  peanut  meal.  Knead  until  smooth  and 
elastic.  From  this  point  follow  the  directions  as  given  for  long 
process. 

Peanut  meal  may  be  prepared  by  shelling  roasted  peanuts,  re- 
moving red  skin  and  crushing  the  nuts  with  a  rolling  pin. 

U.   S.   Food  Administration. 

POTATO  BREAD 

114   cups  mashed   potatoes  %    to    a/4    yeast  cake   softened   in 

(packed    solid),  2  tbsp.  lukewarm,  water. 

1%   tsp.  salt,       2%   cups  flour  (more  or  less  flourmay  be  needed), 

Note:  Mashed  sweet  potato  or  cooked  cereal  or  squash  may  bs 
used  in  the  same  way  as  the  Irish  potato.  In  using  any  sub- 
stitute which  has  a  marked  flavor  it  is  better  to  try  the  bread 
first  with  less  than  11A  cups  and  add  more  liquid.  Squash  rolls 
are  very  good. 

Long  Process — Cool  the  mashed  potatoes  to  lukewarm,  add  the 
salt  and  the  yeast  softened  in  the  warm  water  and  about  J4  cup 
of  flour.  Mix  well,  cover  and  let  rise  until  very  light.  To  the 
well-risen  sponge,  add  the  remaining  flour,  kneading  thoroughly. 
The  dough  should  be  very  stiff,  as  it  softens  considerably  in  ris- 
ing. Cover  and  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Shape  into  a  loaf, 
cover,  let  rise  again  until  it  has  increased  21/£  times  in  bulk,  and 
bake. 

Short  Process — Follow  the  directions  as  given  above,  but  add 
all  the  flour  at  once.  The  dough  in  this  case  is  so  stiff  that  it 
is  difficult  to  work  in  all  the  flour.  U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

OATMEAL    BREAD 

3       cups  hot  oatmeal  mush,  1       yeast  cake, 
3       tbsp.  Crisco,  y2  cup  lukewarm  water, 

2  tsp.   salt,  7       cups  whole  wheat  flour, 

%   cup  molasses,  1       cup  corn  meal. 

Mix  the  Crisco,  salt,  molasses  and  mush;  when  cooled  to  luke- 
warm add  the  yeast  dissolved  in  the  water.  Add  the  corn  meal 
and  one-half  of  the  flour,  beat  thoroughly,  cover  and  set  to  raise 
until  double  its  bulk;  add  balance  of  flour,  knead  until  elastic. 
Place  in  greased  pans,  let  rise  until  double  its  bulk.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  50  to  60  minutes.  Miss  Mary  Nicholson. 


Wheat    Substitutes  23 

ROLLED  OATS  AND  ENTIRE  WHEAT  FLOUR  BREAD 

2V2   cups  boiling-  water,  ¥2  yeast  cake, 

Vz  cup  molasses,  J/4  cup   lukewarm  water, 

1       tsp.  salt,  2  cups  rolled  oats. 

1  tbsp.  fat, 

Whole  wheat  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough;  add  boiling  water 
to  oats,  let  stand  one  hour;  add  molasses,  salt,  fat,  yeast  and 
flour,  beat  thoroughly;  let  rise  to  double  its  bulk  again,  beat 
well,  turn  into  greased  pans,  let  rise  again,  and  bake. 

Jennie  W.  Gilmore, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor  McKinley  High  School. 

SHORTS  BREAD 

2  cups  milk  or  water,  2       tbsp.  fat, 

1  cup   shorts,  2       tbsp.   sugar, 

2  cups  flour,  l/2  yeast  cake, 

z  tsp.  salt,  i/4   cup   lukewarm   water. 

Make  a  sponge,   using  flour;   when  this  is  light   add  shorts. 

SQUASH  BREAD 

1       cup  steamed  squash,  1       cup  scalded  milk, 

J/4   cup  brown  sugar  or  1A  cup  fat, 

molasses,  %  yeast  cake, 

1       tsp.  salt,  y±   cup   lukewarm   water. 

Flour  to  knead, 

Scald  milk,  add  fat  and  sugar  or  molasses;  when  lukewarm  add 
dissolved  yeast  cake  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  sponge.  When 
light  add  salt  and  squash  and  enough  flour  to  knead,  let  rise, 
shape  into  loaves  and  when  twice  the  size  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Miss  J.  Crowder, 
Domestic   Science  Instructor  Central  High  School. 

YEAST 

Because  of  the  high  price  of  yeast  it  may  be  economical  when 
bread  is  made  frequently  and  in  large  quantities  to  prepare  yeast. 

In  making  the  bread  the  amount  of  yeast  used,  of  whatever 
kind,  will  depend  upon  the  time  in  which  the  process  is  to  be 
carried  through. 

LIQUID  YEAST 

4  medium-sized  potatoes,  1  cake   dry  yeast   softened   in 

1  qt.  hot  water,  \i  cup  warm   water,   or   1   cake 

1  tsp.  salt,  of  compressed  yeast, 

14  cup  sugar. 


24  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

Wash,  pare  and  cook  the  potatoes  in  the  water,  drain,  mash, 
and  return  to  the  water,  -make  up  to  one  quart.  Add  the  sugar 
and  salt  and  allow  the  mixture  to  cool.  When  lukewarm  add  the 
yeast.  Keep  at  room  temperature  (65°  to  70°  F.)  for  24  hours 
before  using.  If  kept  for  a  longer  time  it  should  be  poured  into 
a  sterilized  jar  and  put  in  a  dark,  cool  place. 

BREAD  TESTS 

(1)  Will    your   dough   stick   to   the   board   without   the    use    of 
flour? 

If  it  does,  then  more  flour  must  be  kneaded  into  the  dough 
to  make  it  the  right  consistency. 

(2)  Does  your  dough  have  blisters  on  the   surface? 
If  so,  you  have  kneaded  it  enough. 

(3)  Cut    the    dough    to    see    if    the    air    is    evenly     distributed 
throughout  the  mass. 

If  it  is  not,  continue  the  kneading. 

(4)  Knead  for  about  15  to  20  minutes  the  first  kneading.     The 
last  kneading  must  be  of  short  duration,  otherwise  you  will  drive 
off  the  gas  formed  in  the  raising  of  the  dough. 

HOW   TO   CONSERVE   WHEAT 

Cut  the  loaf  on  the  table,  and  only  as  required. 

Do  not  have  stale  bread. 

If  any  breads,  muffins,  gems  are  left  from  meals,  toast  and 
use  with  creamed  fish  or  left  over  bits  of  meat,  fish  or  vegetable. 

If  there  are  bits  of  bread  left,  dry  and  grind,  put  in  cheese 
cloth  bag,  using  the  crumbs  in  scalloped  dishes,  croquettes  and 
as  substitute  for  wheat  flour  in  breads  and  puddings. 

Do  not  use  crackers  made  from  wheat   (or  graham)   flour. 

Do  not  use  breakfast  cereals  made  from  wheat. 

If  you  use  macaroni,  spaghetti,  any  Italian  paste  or  noodles, 
remember  that  it  is  made  of  wheat  and  do  not  serve  bread  at 
the  same  meal. 

Use  corn  starch  or  rice  flour  for  thickening  sauces  and  gravies 
and  in  puddings  (use  half  as  much  as  you  would  of  flour). 

Remember — bread  made  of  mixed  flours  is  better  body  build- 
ing material  than  that  made  from  one  grain  alone. 

"Have  at  least  one  wheatless  meal  a  day.  Use  corn,  oats, 
barley,  or  mixed  cereal  rolls,  muffins  and  breads  in  place  of 


Wheat    Substitutes  25 

white  bread  certainly  for  one  meal  and,  if  possible,  for  two.  Eat 
less  cake  and  pastry.  As  to  white  b^ead,  if  you  must  buy  from  a 
baker,  order  it  a  day  in  advance;  then  he  will  not  bake  beyond 
his  needs.  Use  stale  bread  for  toast  and  cooking." 

Substitute    potatoes    when    they   are    plentiful   for   all    bread   in 
two  meals  a  day. 

U.   S.   Food   Administration. 

A   COMPARISON   OF  BATTERS  AND   DOUGHS 

Kind.  Proportion.  Appearance.  Use. 


Pour  batter  1  flour  to  1          Thin    pastry         Griddle    cakes, 

water  waffles. 

Drop  batter               2  flour  to  1          Thicker                  Gems,  muffins. 
water 

Soft  batter  3  flour  to  1          Soft  sticky  Cakes,  biscuit, 

water  mass  doughnuts,.^ 

Stiff  batter  4  flour  to  1          Not  sticky  Breads 

water  

CHIEF   PROTEINS   OF   WHITE   FLOUR 

Gliaden:  gives  elasticity  to  the  dough. 

Gluten:  gives  strength  to  hold  up  the  expansion  made  by  the 
use  of  leavenings. 

QUICK    BREADS   AS   WHEAT   SAVERS 

Many  processes  have  been  devised  for  making  dough  light 
without  the  use  of  yeast;  the  object  of  these  is  to  shorten  time 
and  labor. 

PROCESS   OF   LEAVENING 

1.  By    air — expansion    with   heat   and   jnoisture. 
Ex. — Eggs  beaten  to  a  froth. 

2.  By  steam — expansion  of  dough  by  application  of.  sudden  heat 

in  oven. 
Ex. — Popovers. 

3.  By  chemical  reaction    (formation  of    carbon  dioxide    gas). 
1 — Soda   (alkali)   and   molasses    (acid). 

2 — Soda   (alkali)   and  sour  milk   (lactic  acid). 
3 — Soda   (alkali)   and  cream   of  tartar    (acid). 

4.  Commercial    baking    powder    (three    classes). 

1 — Cream  of  tartar  powders  or  tartrate  powders. 
2 — Phosphate   powders. 
3 — Alum  powders. 

Note:  The  carbon  dioxide  gas  which  is  formed  in  the  above  re- 
actions expands  with  heat  and  moisture,  making  the  bread  light. 


26  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Bcok 

CORN  MEAL  BISCUITS 

1V2  cups  flour,  3       tsp.  baking  powder, 

Vz  cup  corn  meal,  V2  tsp.  soda, 

Vz  tsp.  salt,  tbsp.  veg.  fat. 

%  cup  sour  milk, 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  fat,  mix  thoroughly, 
then  add  one-half  the  milk;  then  add  more  gradually  to  make  a 
soft  dough,  mixing  with  a  knife;  when  smooth  turn  dough  on  to 
a  flour  board;  toss  until  coated  with  flour;  roll  out  *4  inch  thick 
and  cut  out.  Bake  in  hot  oven  12  to  15  minutes. 

Miss  Winnetta   H.   Grady, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor. 

GRAHAM   BISCUITS 

1       cup  white    flour,  2       tbsp.  sugar, 

1       cup  graham  flour,  1       tsp.   salt, 
3       tsp.  baking  powder,  ^   cup  veg.   fat. 

2/3  cup  milk, 

Mix  and  sift  all  dry  ingredients,  cut  in  vegetable  fat  and 
moisten  dough  evenly.  Put  dough  on  slightly  floured  board,  pat 
out  Vz  inch  thick  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Miss  E.  Rode, 
Domestic   Science   Instructor,   Patrick   Henry    School. 

SHORTS  BISCUITS 

1       cup  shorts,  !/2   tsp.   salt, 

1       cup  flour,  2       tbsp.   shortening, 

3  tsp.  baking  powder,  about   %   cup  milk. 

Sift  together  dry  ingredients,  chop  in  shortening  with  a  knife 
until  fine.  Add  milk  gradually,  mixing  with  a  knife.  Roll  out 
dough  Vz  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Handle  dough 
as  little  as  possible.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  15  minutes. 

Hilda  Z.  Rollman, 
Domestic   Science   Instructor,   Cote   Brilliante   School. 

MUFFINS 
BUCKWHEAT  MUFFINS 

1       cup  buckwheat,  1.  %  cups  milk, 

1       cup  wheat  flour,  1  egg, 

4  tsp.  baking  powder,  1  tbsp.  melted  veg.  fat, 
%  tsp.   salt,  2  tbsp.   molasses. 


Wheat    Substitutes  27 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  Combine  the  milk,  beaten 
egg,  melted  fat  and  molasses.  Add  the  liquid  to  the  dry  in- 
gredients. Mix  well  and  bake  one-half  hour  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven. 

1     ^ 

Rye  flour  or  1  cup  of  barley  and  1  cup  of  wheat  may  be  used 
in  this  recipe  if  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  1  or  l1^  cups.  The  buck- 
wheat flour  absorbs  more  liquid  than  other  flours. 

If  you  can  get  flour,  barley  flour,  rye  meal,  peanut  flour,  soy 
bean  meal,  a  great  variety  of  muffins  can  be  made.  Combinations 
of  one-third  barley  flour,  one-third  corn  flour  and  one-third  wheat 
flour,  or  one-half  rye  meal,  one-fourth  corn  meal  and  one-fourth 
wheat  flour  have  been  found  satisfactory. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

1.— CORN  MUFFINS 

1       cup  milk,  iy2  tbsp.  veg.  fat  or  oil, 

1       cup  corn  meal,  1       tsp.  salt, 

1  egg,  2       tsp.  baking  powder. 

Beat  egg  till  light,  add  milk,  then  corn  meal  to  which  baking 
powder  and  salt  have  been  added.  Melt  fat  and  add  to  batter. 
This  should  be  a  drop  batter.  Fill  hot  molds  three-fourths  full 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Elizabeth  Mount  Walker, 

Domestic  Science  Instructor,  University  City  School. 

2.— CORN   MUFFINS 

2  cups  corn  meal,  y±  tsp.  soda, 
1  cup  hot  water,                               1       tsp.  salt, 

1  dessert  spoon  molasses,  1       tbsp.    melted   Troco    (short- 

2  tsp.  baking  powder,  ening). 

Pour  hot  water  over  corn  meal  to  which  has  been  added  bak- 
ing powder,  soda  and  salt.  Add  molasses,  melt  Troco  and  whip 
into  the  mixture  and  put  in  hot  muffin  rings.  Mrs.  Haydock. 

GRAHAM  AND  CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS 

1  cup  graham  flour,  3  tsp.   baking   powder, 

1  cup  meal,  1  tsp.   salt, 

1*4  cups  milk,  1  tbsp.   sugar, 

1  egg,  1  tbsp.  veg.  fat. 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  milk,  sugar,  salt  and  fat.  Add  sifted 
flour,  corn  meal  and  baking  powder.  Pour  into  greased  pans, 
bake  in  moderate  oven  20  to  30  minutes. 

Miss  Mary  Nicholson, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor, 


28  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

COOKED  CEREAL  MUFFINS  (10-12  muffins) 

l1/^   cups  flour,  1  cup   cooked   rice, 

4       tsp.  baking  powder,  y2  cup  milk, 

%  tsp.  salt,  1  egg, 

1  tbsp.  melted  fat. 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  milk,  beaten  egg 
and  melted  fat  to  the  cooked  rice.  Beat  thoroughly.  Finally  add 
the  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins 
about  one-half  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Other  cooked  cereals  or  mashed  potatoes  may  be  used  in  this 
recipe.  If  the  dough  is  too  soft,  add  a  little  more  flour,  if  too 
thick,  a  little  more  liquid. 

U.    S.   Food   Administration. 

SOUTHERN  RICE  BREAD 

2  cups  white  corn  meal,  2       tbsp.  veg.  oil, 

3  eggs,  V2  tsp.   salt, 

1*4   pt.  milk,  tsp.  baking  powder. 

1  cup  cold  boiled  rice, 

Beat  the  eggs  until  light  without  separating;  add  the  milk, 
meal,  salt,  rice  and  melted  vegetable  oil.  Beat  thoroughly  for 
two  minutes,  add  the  baking  powder  and  mix  again.  Grease 
three  deep  pie  dishes,  turn  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  thirty  minutes. 

BARLEY  AND  WHOLE  WHEAT  MUFFINS 

2  eggs,  2  cups    whole    wheat    flour, 

3  tbsp.  sugar,  1  tsp.  baking  soda, 
2  tbsp.  olive  oil,                                  1  tsp.   salt, 

1  qt.  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,        2  tsp.  baking  powder. 

2  cups  barley  meal, 

Mix  and  beat  well  for  five  minutes.  Bake  in  well  greased  muf- 
fin tins  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BARLEY   SCONES 

1       cup  barley  meal,  2       tsp.  baking  powder, 

1       cup  whole  wheat  flour,  %   cup  sour  milk, 

*4  tsp.   salt,  2       tbsp.  veg.  oil. 

%  tsp.   soda, 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  If  coarse  whole  wheat  flour 
is  used,  do  not  sift  it.  Add  sour  milk  and  vegetable  oil  and  blend 
the  mixture  well.  Turn  that  soft  dough  thus  formed  on  to  a 
floured  board,  knead  slightly,  roll  to  one-half  thickness,  cut  into 
fancy  shapes  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


Wheat    Substitutes  29 

BARLEY   PONE 

1  cup  freshly  cooked  hominy  \'->.   tsp.   salt, 

grits,  1       cup   barley   meal, 

2  cups  milk,  tsp.  baking  powder. 

3  tbsp.  butter, 

Add  to  the  cooked  hominy  grits  the  milk  and  butter.  Cool  and 
add  salt,  barley  meal  and  baking  powder  sifted  together,  then 
the  well  beaten  eggs.  Pour  into  a  round,  shallow,  buttered  baking 
dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Cut  in 
triangular  pie-shape'd  pieces  and  serve  hot  from  the  dish  in  which 
it  was  baked. 

CORN   AS  BREAD 

Corn  bread  is  especially  good  made  with  sour  milk  and  soda; 
but  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder  are  satisfactory.  Eggs  im- 
prove the  flavor  and  add  to  the  food  value,  but  may  be  omitted 
if  too  expensive. 

CORN   BREAD 

(1.)  (2.) 

2  cups  corn  meal,  2  cups  corn   meal, 

2  cups   sweet  milk    (whole  or        2  cups  sour  milk, 

skim),  1  tsp.  soda. 

4  tsp.  baking  powder,  1  tbsp.   sugar, 

1  tbsp.   sugar,  2  tbsp.  fat, 

2  tbsp.  fat,  1  tsp.  salt, 

1  tsp.   salt,  1  egg    (may   be   omitted). 

1  egg  (may  be  omitted). 

Mix  dry  ingredients.  Add  milk,  well-beaten  egg  and  melted 
fat.  Beat  well.  Bake  in  shallow  pan  for  about  30  minutes. 

CORN  DODGERS 

2  cups  corn  meal,  2       tsp.  fat, 

1  tsp.  salt,  194   cups  boiling  water. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  other  materials.  Beat  well. 
When  cool  form  into  thin  cakes  and  bake  Vz  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 
These  crisp  biscuits  are  good  served  hot  with  butter  or  gravy. 
Eat  them  with  your  meat  and  vegetables. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

AN  OLD  SOUTHERN  RECIPE 

Here  is  an  old-fashioned  soft  spoon  bread  that  Southerners  like. 
With  milk  or  syrup  it  makes  a  satisfying  meal. 


30  "Win   the    War"   Cook  Bonk 

SPOON   BREAD 

2  cups  water,  1  tbsp.  fat, 

1  cup  milk  (whole  or  skim),          2  eggs, 

1  cup  corn  meal,  2  tsp.   salt. 

Mix  water  and  corn  meal  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
cook  5  minutes.  Beat  eggs  well  and  add  with  other  materials  to 
the  mush.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  a  well  greased  pan  for  25  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  from  the  same  dish  with  a  spoon. 
Enough  for  six. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

STEAMED  CORN  BREAD 

2  cups  yellow  corn  meal,  2       tbsp.     sugar     (4     tbsp.     mo- 
1   cup  flour,  lasses), 

1  tsp.  salt,  1%    tsp.  soda, 

Vz  tsp.  baking  powder. 

Sift  these  ingredients  together  and  then  add  2Vz  cups  sour 
milk.  Beat  well,  pour  into  a  buttered  mold  with  a  tight  fitting 
cover  and  steam  for  two  hours.  Remove  and  brown  in  oven. 

BANANA   FLOUR  BREAD 

1  cup  banana  flour,  Vz  tsp.   salt, 

1  cup  bread   flour,  3       tbsp.   sugar, 

2  tsp.  baking  powder,  2       tbsp.  veg.  fat. 
1  cup  milk, 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients;  cut  in  fat,  then  add  milk,  put  into 
greased  loaf  pan;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

PEANUT  AND  RAISIN  BREAD 

1       qt.  whole  wheat  flour,  1  tbsp.  fat, 

l/i   cup  sugar,  4  tsp.  baking  powder, 

1       tsp.  salt,  1  cup  chopped  peanuts, 

1       cup   milk,  Vz  cup   chopped   raisins. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  cut  in  fat,  add  nuts,  raisins  and  milk. 
Put  into  a  greased  loaf  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

PRUNE  BROWN  BREAD   (Steamed) 

1       cup  corn  meal,  1  tsp.  soda, 

1  tsp.   salt,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

2  cups  whole  wheat  flour,  1  cup  prunes  chopped  fine. 
Vz   cup  molasses, 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  molasses,  milk  and  prunes.  Fill  greased 
molds  two-thirds  full.  Grease  the  cover  and  cover  tightly.  Steam 
three  hours. 


Wheat    Substitutes  31 

OATMEAL  MUFFINS 

1V2  cups  milk,  1       tbsp.  melted  fat, 

2  cups  rolled  oats,  1       cup  flour, 

1  egg,  tsp.  baking  powder, 

2  tbsp.   molasses,  %  tsp.   salt. 

Pour  hot  milk  over  the  oats  and  let  soak  about  one-half  hour. 
Add  the  beaten  egg,  molasses  and  melted  fat.  Finally  add  dry 
ingredients  which  have  been  sifted  together.  Bake  in  greased 
muffin  tins  one-half  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 

1       cup  rye  flour,  3       cups   milk, 

1       cup  graham  flour,  %   cup    molasses, 

1       cup  corn  meal,  tsp.  baking  powder, 

y2  tsp.  salt,  1       cup  raisins  if  desired. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  into  the  liquids,  mix  quickly,  pour  into 
greased  cups,  cover  the  top  and  steam  2  to  3  hours. 

Miss  E.  D.  Rode, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  Patrick  Henry  School. 

BAKED  BROWN  BREAD 

*/3  cup  corn  meal,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

2^   cups  graham  flour,  1  cup  molasses, 

1V2  tsp.  soda,  1  cup  water. 

1  tsp.  salt, 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients;  mix  the  wet  ingredients;  pour  the  wet 
into  the  dry  and  beat  well.  Pour  the  batter  into  three  oiled  pound 
baking  powder  cans;  leave  uncovered  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
for  1%  hours.  It  is  well  to  use  an  asbestos  mat  under  the  cans 
while  baking  so  as  to  avoid  burning  the  bread. 

Miss   Leigh  Harris, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  Yeatman  High  School. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES 

CORN  MEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

2  cups  corn  meal,  1  egg, 

1V2   cups  milk  or  water,  3  tsp.  baking  powder, 

1       tbsp.  fat, 

Miss  Alice  Waugh, 

Domestic   Science  Instructor  Ritenour  School. 


32  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

GRIDDLE  CAKES 

1       cup  milk,  MJ   cup  flour, 

1       egg,  %   tsp.  salt, 

I       tbsp.  melted  fat,  4       tbsp.  baking  powder. 

l1/^   cups  cooked  oatmeal, 

Combine  the  milk,  beaten  egg  and  melted  fat.  Beat  this  into 
the  cooked  oatmeal.  Add  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  which 
have  been  sifted  together.  Bake  on  a  hot  greased  griddle. 

Other  cooked  cereals,  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes, 
etc.,  may  be  used  in  the  place  of  the  oatmeal.  When  rice  is  used, 
1i  cup  mere  flour  is  necessary. 

Griddle  cakes  may  also  be  made  by  using  one-half  or  more  of 
corn  meal  or  buckwheat  flour. 

If  desired,  sour  milk  may  be  substituted  in  these  recipes  for  the 
sweet.  In  doing  this  the  quantity  must  usually  be  increased  a 
little.  Use  MJ  teaspoonful  of  soda  for  each  cup  of  sour  milk.  For 
each  %  teaspoonful  of  soda  the  quantity  of  baking  powder  can  be 
reduced  by  2  teaspoonfuls. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

BATTER  CAKES 

1  cup  corn  meal,  2       tsp.  baking  powder, 

1  cup  bran,  %  tsp.  soda, 

1  cup  hot  water,  1       tsp.   salt, 

1  dessert  sp.  molasses,  1       tbsp.  melted  Troco. 

Sift  corn  meal,  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt,  add  bran,  pour 
over  this  the  hot  water.  Add  molasses  and  lastly  the  melted  Troco 
whipped  in. 

Mrs.  Haydock. 

Note:  Use  stale  bread  crumbs  to  replace  part  of  flour  in  mak- 
ing muffins,  gems  and  griddle  cakes,  also  in  steamed  puddings. 

Steam  a  vegetable,  cornbread,  and  rice  in  steamer  at  one 
time  to  conserve  fuel. 

CEREALS 

Corn  meal,  oatmeal,  rice,  hominy  (grits).  These  are  much 
cheaper  than  the  "ready-to-eat"  breakfast  foods.  A  "ready-to- 
eat"  breakfast  food  may  cost  15  cents  for  a  big  package,  but  if 
the  package  contains  only  one-quarter  pound — 60  cents  a  pound 
for  cereal!  This  is  eight  or  ten  times  as  expensive  as  corn  meal 


Wheat   Substitutes 


33 


at  6  or  7  cents  a  pound.     Look  for  the  weights  printed  on  the 
package  and  get  the  most  for  your  money. 

Corn  meal  mush  and  oatmeal  are  good  only  when  well  cooked. 
Many  people  use  too  little  salt  and  don't  cook  them  long  enough. 

All  cereals  should  be  cooked  in  a  double  boiler;  one  can  be  im- 
provised by  setting  a  pail  or  pan  into  a  kettle  of  water.  Cereals 
for  breakfast  may  be  cooked  the  day  before,  but  should  not  be 
stirred  while  reheating.  A  tablespoonful  or  two  of  cold  water  on 
top  will  prevent  a  hard  skin  from  forming  while  standing.  All 
prepared  cereals  are  better  if  cooked  for  a  longer  time  than  the 
package  directions  indicate.  It  is  hardly  possible  to  cook  any 
grain  too  long.  The  fireless  cooker  is  especially  valuable  for 
cooking  cereals,  but  a  longer  period  of  time  must  be  allowed  than 
for  cooking  in  a  double  boiler. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS 


Kinds. 

Quan.  to  1  c.  water. 

Time  of  Cooking. 

Whole  or  cracked 
Flaked 
Granular 

x/4  cup 
%  cup 
3  tbsp. 

3-12  hrs.,  except  rice 
%-3  hrs. 
1-4  hrs. 

Use  Vz  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  each  cup  of  water.  Have  water 
boiling  hot.  Add  cerea-l  gradually.  Let  mixture  cook  directly 
over  the  flame  5  minutes.  Place  over  boiling  water  or  in  fireless 
cooker  to  cook  slowly  for  a  long  time,  without  stirring,  and  cov- 
ered. Fruit  may  be  cooked  with  the  various  cereals,  raisins,  figs 
and  dates  being  most  acceptable.  (Use  water.)  For  hot  weather, 
cereals  may  be  cooked  the  day  before,  molded  and  served  cold. 

Gruels  are  prepared  from  flaked  or  granular  cereals,  using  l1/^ 
times  the  proportionate  amount  of  water.  Gruels  after  cooking 
should  be  strained  and  reheated. 


EXAMPLES  OF  CEREALS 


Whole. 

Flaked. 

Granular. 

Barley 
Rice 
Macaroni 

Rolled  oats 

Vitos 
Corn  meal 

34  "Win  the  War"  Cook  Book 

CEREALS 

Cereals  act  as  fuel  to  let  you  do  your  work,  much  as  the  gaso- 
line burning  in  an  automobile  engine  makes  the  car  go.  This  you 
can  think  of  as  their  chief  business.  And  they  are  usually  your 
cheapest  fuel.  Besides  they  give  your  body  some  building  ma- 
terial. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

CORN  MEAL  AND  MILK 

Do  you  use  corn  meal  mush  for  a  breakfast  food?  It  is  both 
cheap  and  good.  Cooked  in  skim  milk  instead  of  water  it  is  extra 
fine  and  the  food  value  of  the  dish  is  nearly  doubled. 

CORN  MEAL  MUSH 

To  cook  corn  meal  mush  for  five  people  use  l1/^  cups  corn  meal, 
2  teaspoonfuls  salt  (level),  5  or  6  cups  water.  Bring  salt  water  to 
a  boil.  Stir  in  the  corn  meal  slowly.  Don't  let  it  lump.  Cook  it 
at  least  30  minutes.  It  is  better  when  cooked  for  three  hours,  or 
over  night.  Use  a  double  boiler  or  a  fireless  cooker. 

CORN  MEAL  MUSH  WITH  CHEESE 

Prepare  the  mush  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe  and  pour  into  a 
flat,  wet  pan  to  cool.  When  cold,  turn  out  and  cut  in  half-inch 
slices  with  grated  cheese  and  paprika  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  to  a 
delicate  brown.  This  dish  possesses  all  the  supplies  of  a  well-bal- 
anced food.  The  meal  supplies  carbohydrates;  the  cheese,  the 
protein  and  some  fat.  It  is  a  tempting  dish,  too,  which  cannot  be 
said  of  all  wholesome  foods. 

Caroline  B.  King,  G.  H.  K. 

OATMEAL 

For  oatmeal  use  2^  cups  rolled  oats,  2^  teaspoonfuls  salt,  5  or 
6  cups  water.  Bring  the  water  to  a  boil,  stir  the  rolled  oats  slowly 
into  the  boiling  water  and  cook  for  one  hour,  or  over  night.  Eat 
the  cereal  with  milk  or  syrup  or  butter  or  butter  substitutes. 

TO  BOIL  HOMINY 

Soak  one  cup  of  hominy  in  the  evening,  let  it  stand  over  night 
then  put  on  to  boil  with  six  cups  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful 


Wheat    Substitutes  35 

salt,  and  boil  slowly  all  day,  stirring  occasionally,  or  put  in  top 
of  double  boiler  or  fireless  cooker.  The  best  thing  during  the  cold 
weather  is  to  always  have  a  crock  of  cold  boiled  hominy  on  hand; 
it  keeps  a  week  or  more  in  cold  place,  and  is  a  great  help  to  the 
housekeeper,  taking  the  place  of  potatoes  and  bread,  besides  being 
very  wholesome.  This  serves  five  adults. 

HOMINY  CAKES 

1  cup  cracked  corn  or  pearly        2  tsp.  salt, 
hominy,  3  tbsp.  fat. 

7  cups   boiling   water, 

Boil  the  corn  and  water  for  %  hour,  add  seasonings,  place  ves- 
sel over  water  and  cook  from  six  to  eight  hours.  Serve  in  place 
of  potatoes.  For  the  second  day  put  the  left  over  cold  hominy 
through  the  meat  grinder,  add  a  beaten  egg,  a  tablespoonful  sugar 
and  %  teaspoonful  vanilla;  make  into  cakes,  flour  and  cook  in  a 
frying  pan  until  delicately  browned  on  both  sides.  Serve  these 
cakes  instead  of  potatoes. 

Miss  Mary  Evans, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  Yeatman  High   School. 


STEAMED  RICE 

Cook  rice  as  any  whole  cereal.  The  time  is  20  minutes,  or  until 
kernels  are  soft.  Uncover,  that  steam  may  escape.  When  rice  is 
steamed  for  a  simple  dessert  use  one-half  the  quantity  of  water. 
Steam  until  rice  has  absorbed  water,  then  add  scalded  milk  for 
remaining  liquid. 

BOILED  RICE 

Pick  over  and  wash  rice.  Add  gradually  to  a  large  quantity  of 
rapidly  boiling  salted  water.  Stir  at  first  with  a  fork  to  prevent 
any  grain  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  kettle.  Let  it  boil  rap- 
idly 20  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Drain  in  strainer,  pour  over  it 
cold  water,  reheat  in  oven.  Serve  plain  as  a  vegetable,  or  use  for 
croquettes,  etc.  One  cupful  of  rice  when  cooked  will  measure 
nearly  4  cups. 

BOILED  MACARONI 

Break  macaroni  in  two-inch  pieces  and  cook  as  boiled  rice. 


36  "Win  the  War"   Cook  Book 

SAUTED  MUSH 

Pack  hot  corn  meal  mush  in  wet  molds.  Cool,  and  cover  to  pre- 
vent crust  forming.  Remove  from  mold,  cut  in  ^-inch  slices  and 
saute.  If  slices  are  dipped  in  flour  or  corn  meal  sauteing  should 
be  made  thicker,  using  4  tablespoonfuls  granular  cereal  to  1  cup 
of  water. 

UNPOLISHED  RICE 

The  hull  which  is  removed  in  polishing  rice  is  very  rich  in 
mineral  content.  It  is  said  that  armies  fed  on  polished  rice  without 
this  mineral  being  supplied  by  other  foods,  quickly  contract  scurvy, 
while  those  fed  on  brown  or  unpolished  rice  do  not  have  the  dis- 
ease. It  seems  that  this  most  valuable  part  of  the  rice  is  being 
sold  as  waste  stock  feed.  If  this  can  be  bought  at  2%  cents  or  3 
cents  per  pound,  it  should  be  used  in  large  quantities  everywhere. 
If  this  cannot  be  obtained,  then  every  woman  should  ask  her 
grocer  for  brown  or  unpolished  rice. 


BARLEY  MUSH. 

%  cup  barley  meat,  %  level  tsp.  salt. 

2       cups  boiling  water, 

Method:  Add  the  barley  meal  to  the  boiling  salted  water,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Cook  over  the  fire  for  5  minutes,  then  over  hot 
water  for  one  hour.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 


FRUITED  CEREALS 

Note:  Oats  are  among  the  highest  in  caloric  values  of  all  the 
cereals. 

Figs  and  dates  and  raisins  are  conceded  the  highest  in  caloric 
or  food  value  of  all  the  fruits. 

The  combination  of  these  cereals  and  fruits  therefore  offers 
more  nutrition  for  the  money  expended  than  any  other  staple 
food. 

When  cereal  is  about  half  cooked,  add  fruit  whole  or  chopped. 


Meat  Savers 

"Use  more  poultry,  rabbits,  and  especially  fish  and  sea  food  in 
place  of  beef,  mutton  and  pork.": 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

Poultry:  Fish: 

Chicken  Base 

Turkey  Bluefish 

Game:  Crab 

Duck  Cod 

Goose  Catfish 

Squab  Clams 

Quail  Haddock 

Rabbits  Halibut 

Nuts :  Herring 

Almonds  Lobster 

Walnuts  Mackerel 

Pecans,  etc.  Oyster 

Peanuts  Shadroe 

Beans  Shrimp 

Peas  Smelt 

Lentils  Trout 

Cheese:  Tripe 

Cottage  cheese  Tuna 

Whole  milk  cheese  Salmon 

Milk:  Cereals: 

Whole  milk  Oatmeal 

Skimmed  milk  Corn   meal 
Sour  milk 
Eggs 

Note:  Use  beans,  they  have  nearly  the  same  food  value  as 
meat  if  used  with  milk.  Do  not  use  either  beef,  mutton  or  pork 
more  than  once  daily,  and  then  serve  smaller  portions.  Use  all 
left-over  meat  cold  or  in  made  dishes.  Use  soup  more  freely. 
Cereals  contain  much  protein.  A  combination  of  cereals  is  better 
than  one  alone.  Milk  is  most  important.  Use  much  of  it. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

Note:  New  kinds  of  fish,  especially  recommended  by  Bureau  of 
Fisheries:  Bowfin,  Burbot,  Whiting,  Sable  fish,  Eulachion. 


38  "Win  the  War"  Cook  Book 

WHY  YOU  SHOULD  USE  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 

Meat  is  bound  to  be  dear.  It  was  scarce  and  high  before  the 
war. 

For  years  the  number  of  people  in  this  country  has  been  in- 
creasing faster  than  the  number  of  meat  animals.  Much  of  the 
open  country  out  West  where  cattle  used  to  range  by  hundreds  of 
thousands  has  been  fenced  into  farms. 

Then  came  anthrax,  foot  and  mouth  disease,  hog  cholera,  one 
plague  after  another. 

Four  years  ago  our  government  began  a  great  campaign  for 
more  livestock,  just  to  feed  us  in  peace  times. 

War  doubles  and  trebles  the  demand  for  our  meat.  We  must 
provide  meat  for  the  boys  in  the  trenches.  We  must  stretch  our 
meat  supply.  We  must  Save  Meat  to  Save  Ourselves. 

We  can  eat  fish,  it's  as  hearty  as  meat.  Eat  poultry,  it  does  not 
make  army  rations.  Use  milk,  eggs  and  cheese,  they  are  almost 
the  same  as  meat. 

Peanut  butter  and  vegetable  oils  are  good  fats.  Dried  beans, 
peas  and  grains  take  the  place  of  meat  if  milk  is  used  with  them, 
or  cheese  or  eggs  or  plenty  of  green  vegetables. 

One  ounce  of  meat  a  day  for  every  one  in  the  country  amounts 
to  the  meat  from  4,400,000  animals  in  a  year.  Save  your  ounce. 
It's  a  little  thing  to  do  to  save  your  country. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 


THE  EFFECT  OF  HEAT  ON  PROTEIN 

Egg  albumin  or  meat  albumin  serve  as  good  examples  to  show 
the  effect  of  heat  on  protein.  If  heat  is  applied  a  gradual  process 
of  hardening  begins  at  the  outer  edge  of  the  albumin,  and  con- 
tinues toward  the  center  in  thin  lines  or  fibrils  until  the  transpar- 
ent albumin  becomes  dense  and  leathery.  This  change  is  known 
as  coagulation,  and  is  typical  of  the  change  in  all  protein  foods 
as  the  result  of  the  application  of  heat.  A  few  simple  experi- 
ments will  show  the  eifect  of  the  different  temperatures  on  pro- 
tein. At  134  degrees  F.  the  fine  fibrils  of  a  semi-solid  white  sub- 
stance appear  in  the  liquid  albumin.  At  160  degrees  P.  it 


Meat  Savers  39 

changes  to  a  tender  jelly-like  substance.  At  180  degrees  F.  it  be- 
comes dense  and  white.  Boiling  temperature  changes  it  into  a 
tough,  leathery  substance.  Therefore,  the  higher  the  temperature 
the  tougher  and  harder  the  protein;  consequently  all  protein  foods 
are  best  if  cooked  at  as  low  a  temperature  as  will  render  them 
palatable. 

LEGUMES  AS  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 

Dried  peas  and  beans  are  rich  in  muscle  making  principle  and 
for  this  reason  are  often  called  the  "poor  man's  beef,"  of  very 
poor  quality,  about  1A  as  good  in  quality  as  animal  protein,  but  be- 
cause they  are  somewhat  difficult  of  digestion,  they  should  not  re- 
place animal  protein  altogether,  but  should  be  used  with  discre- 
tion as  meat  substitutes.  Soy  beans  are  an  exception  to  this.  Cereal 
protein  is  about  two  times  as  valuable  for  growth  as  beans.  No 
matter  how  dried  legumes  are  to  be  cooked,  they  must  first  be 
soaked  over  night  in  cold  water,  that  they  may  absorb  moisture  to 
replace  that  lost  in  evaporation;  after  soaking  dried  legumes  may 
be  cooked  in  almost  any  of  the  ways  which  fresh  ones  are  cooked. 
It  is  then  necessary  to  drain  and  wash  them  thoroughly,  cooking 
gently  until  tender  in  water  containing  a  very  little  common  bak- 
ing soda.  This  tends  to  soften  the  water  and  hastens  the  cooking 
process;  it  also  aids  in  removing  excess  sulphur. 

There  is  nothing  in  all  cookery  that  needs  more  careful  season- 
ing than  dried  legumes;  salt  and  pepper,  lemon  rind,  nutmeg, 
onion,  celery  salt,  celery  leaves,  mustard  in  the  right  proportions 
may  be  used.  As  these  legumes  are  deficient  in  fats,  they  should 
be  combined  with  some  fatty  ingredients  to  preserve  the  balance — 
salt  pork  and  beans. 

SOY  BEANS 

Soy  beans  are  excellent  substitutes  for  meat.  They  contain  al- 
most twice  as  much  protein  as  beefsteak,  and  more  fat  than  any 
other  of  the  legumes  except  the  peanut.  The  protein  of  the  soy 
bean  is  more  nearly  like  animal  protein  in  value  than  that  of 
other  plant  foods  as  far  as  is  now  known.  The  fat  contains  the 
important  growth-promoting  fat  soluble  vitamine.  The  yellow  or 
green  varieties  are  best  for  eating  purposes,  the  darker  varieties 
having  an  unpleasant  strong  taste. 


40  "Win  the  War"  Cook  Book 

Green  soy  beans,  when  three-fourths  grown,  may  be  cooked  and 
seasoned  like  the  lima  bean;  change  the  water  once  during  the 
Booking. 

Dried  soy  beans  should  be  soaked  in  5  per  cent  salt  water  12-16 
hours.  Drain,  put  on  to  cook  in  hot  water  and  cook  slowly  until 
tender  (6-8  hours),  changing  the  water  often  while  cooking  in 
order  to  remove  the  strong  flavor. 

1  Ib.  of  meat  costs  $0.35,  contains  224  calories. 
1  Ib.  soy  beans  costs  $0.05,  contains  1970  calories. 

1  Ib.  navy  beans  costs  $0.20,  contains  1605  calories. 

t 

SOY  BEAN  CROQUETTES 

2  cups  cooked   soy  beans  1  cup  cooked  rice, 

(chopped),  1  tbsp.  chopped  pickle, 

1  cup  chopped  onions,  1  beaten  egg, 

2  tbsp.  oleo,  Pepper. 
Salt, 

Combine  as  for  soy  bean  loaf.  Form  into  croquettes,  roll  in 
egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat  or  bake  in  oven. 

SCALLOPED   SOY  BEANS 

Alternate  layers  of  beans  and  white  sauce.  Cover  with  buttered 
crumbs  and  grated  cheese.  Brown  in  oven. 

BAKED  SOY  BEANS 

2       cups  soy  beans,  parboiled,         Cayenne  pepper, 
l/3  cup  molasses,  Salt  pork. 

Place  in  baking  dish  parboiled  soy  beans,  in  the  midst  of  which 
is  buried  2  pieces  of  salt  pork  one  inch  square,  add  molasses,  salt, 
cayenne  and  a  little  mustard  and  onion  if  desired.  Bake  with 
cover  until  tender,  then  remove  cover  to  brown. 

SOY  BEAN  LOAF 

2  cups  cooked  soy  beans  1  tbsp.  chopped  pickle, 

(chopped),  2  tbsp.  oleo, 

1  cup  cooked  rice,  1  beaten  egg, 

1  chopped  onion,  Salt,  pepper. 

Serve  with  tomato  or  brown  sauce. 

Put  soy  beans  through  a  meat  chopper,  combine  with  other  in- 
gredients and  form  in  a  loaf.  Brown  in  the  oven. 


Meat  Savers  41 

SOY  BEAN  SOUFFLE 

1  cup  soy  beans,  1       cup  milk, 

2  tbsp.  veg.  oil,  1       tsp.  salt, 

4  tbsp.  flour  (rice  flour  if  you  y3  tsp.  pepper, 

have  it),  2       or  3  eggs. 

Cook  beans  until  tender  (4  hours),  drain  and  rub  through 
strainer.  Heat  oil,  add  flour  and  milk,  boil  1  minute,  add  2  cups 
bean  pulp,  cool  and  add  beaten  egg  yolks  and  seasoning.  Beat 
white  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  fold  into  bean  mixture.  Bake  in  but- 
tered casserole  in  moderate  oven  30  minutes. 


SOY  BEAN  AND  TOMATO  STEW 


2  tbsp.  fat,  l1/^  cups  cooked  tomatoes, 

1  medium  onion,  1       tbsp.  flour, 

1  small  green  sweet  pepper,  Salt, 

2  cups  cooked  soy  beans,  Pepper. 

Melt  the  fat  in  a  frying  pan  and  add  the  chopped  onion  and 
pepper.  When  these  are  tender  add  the  soy  beans,  stirring  until 
they  are  slightly  browned  in  the  fat.  Add  tomatoes  and  cook  ten 
minutes.  Thicken  with  the  flour  mixed  with  a  little  water  or 
tomato  juice. 

Patriotic  Food  Show, 

St.  Louis,  Mo. 

JUNGLE  STEW  (  SOY  BEANS) 

1  qt.  water,  %  lb.  macaroni, 

3  small   onions  1       pt.  tomatoes, 

(chopped  fine),  tbsp.  butter  sub., 

can  kidney  or  Salt,  pepper. 

1  cup  soy  beans   (dry), 

Fry  onion  in  fat,  add  tomatoes  and  water,  allow  to  come  to  boil- 
ing point,  add  macaroni,  cook  twenty  minutes.  Add  beans  which 
have  been  cooked.  Let  simmer,  serve  hot. 

Oswego   (Kansas)    College. 

BAKED  BEANS  (NAVY) 

2  cups  beans,  y±  tsp.  mustard, 
2  tbsp.  molasses  or  brown              1       tsp.  salt, 

sugar,  2       oz.   salt  pork  or  bacon. 

Wash  and  soak  beans  over  night,  add  a  little  baking  soda  and 


42  "Win  the  War"  Cook  Book 

cook  until  the  skins  easily  slip  from  the  bean  (easily  determining 
by  taking  a  bean  on  tip  of  spoon  and  blowing  on  it).  Add  the 
seasoning  and  the  pork  which  has  been  previously  scraped  and 
scored  (cut  in  strips  just  through  rind).  Cover  and  bake  slowly 
6-8  hours;  uncover  the  last  hour  of  the  cooking  so  that  the  rind 
of  the  meat  may  become  brown  and  crisp.  If  less  seasoning  is 
preferred  the  amount  of  molasses  or  sugar  may  be  cut  down. 

BEAN  TIMBALES 

2       cups   beans,  1       tbsp.   catsup, 

1  egg,  Vs  tsp.  cayenne  pepper, 
YT,  tsp.   salt.                                                 Few  drops  of  onion  juice. 

Put  beans  through  a  sieve,  add  seasoning,  egg  and  catsup.  Cook 
in  pan  of  hot  water  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce. 

Miss  J.   Crowder, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  Central  High  School. 

PEANUT  LOAF 

2  cups  bean  pulp,  1  cup  or  more  bread  crumbs, 

1  cup  strained  tomato,  Season  with  minced  celery,  onion 

2  eggs   (beaten),  and  salt. 
2  cups   peanuts    (chopped   fine), 

Mix  in  order  named.  Make  into  loaf,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  stiff  enough  to  slice.  Good  hot  or  cold  (8  servings). 

Jesse   Cline, 
St.  Joseph,  Mo. 

MOCK  CHICKENS 

2       cups  beans,  Vz  tsp.  sage, 

l/>,  loaf  bread,  Salt,  pepper. 

14  cup  fat,  %  cup  hot  water. 

Wash  beans,  soak  over  night  in  cold  water,  drain  and  cook  in 
boiling  water,  simmer  till  tender,  but  not  broken,  drain  and  mash. 
Make  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  melted  fat,  sage  and  seasoning. 
Arrange  in  a  baking  dish,  alternating  mashed  beans  and  dressing. 
Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  20  minutes.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce  or  white  sauce  flavored  with  parsley. 

Anna  Jensen, 
Domestic   Science   Instructor,   St.   Joseph,   Mo. 


Meat  Savers  43 

HORTICULTURAL  LOAF   (BEAN  LOAF) 

Mix  two  cups  of  beans  with  three  chopped  pimentos,  one  cup 
of  bread  crumbs  cooked  to  a  paste  with  half  a  cup  of  tomato 
puree.  Season  with  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  grated  lemon 
rind,  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
well,  add  to  the  mixture  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  pile 
into  a  well-oiled  bread  tin,  set  in  a  moderate  oven  and  cook  until 
firm.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

COWPEAS 

In  composition  cowpeas  are  similar  to  navy  beans,  and  the 
uses  and  methods  of  preparation  are  much  the  same.  Cowpeas 
are  low  in  fat,  but  when  this  is  added  in  the  process  of  cooking 
they  may  well  take  the  place  of  meat  in  the  meal. 

Cowpeas  should  be  soaked  in  water  several  hours  or  over  night. 
Simmer  until  tender  and  season  well.  Pork  fat  or  vegetable  oils, 
cheese,  onion,  green  pepper,  celery  or  tomatoes  will  combine  well 
as  seasonings  with  cowpeas. 

BOILED  COWPEAS 

Soak  the  cowpeas  and  cook  half  done.  Add  the  pork,  cut  into 
small  squares.  Cook  until  tender,  allowing  most  of  the  water  to 
evaporate. 

2  cups    cowpeas,  *4    pound   salt  pork   or   3   tbsp. 

drippings. 

1.— BAKED  COWPEAS 

Cover  with  water  and  bake  slowly  several  hours. 

1       qt.  parboiled  cowpeas,  Salt, 

*4  lb.  salt  pork.  Pinch  of  cayenne  pepper, 

l/2  tsp.   mustard,  */j  cup  sorghum  molasses. 

2.— BAKED  COWPEAS 

Bake  as  above,  substituting  for  the  molasses 

1  onion,  %  cup  vinegar, 

2  cups  tomato  juice,  1       tbsp.  sugar. 

SCALLOPED  COWPEAS 

2  cups  cooked  cowpeas,  1  cup  cheese  sauce. 

Place  in  baking  dish  alternating  layers  of  peas  and  sauce. 
Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  brown  in  oven. 


44  "Win  the  War"  Cook  Book 

DRIED  PEAS  WITH  RICE  AND  TOMATOES 

\Vz  cups  rice,  1       tbsp.  salt, 

2       cups  dried  peas,  V±  tsp.  pepper, 

6       onions,  2       cups  tomatoes  (fresh  or 

canned). 

Soak  peas  over  night  in  two  quarts  of  water,  cook  until  tender 
in  water  in  which  they  soak,  add  rice,  onions,  tomatoes  and  season- 
ing and  cook  20  minutes. 

SAUCES 

Especial  attention  must  be  given  to  the  seasoning  of  dishes 
which  have  as  their  foundation  beans,  rice,  or  other  foods  having 
little  flavor  of  their  own. 

Use  peppers,  onions,  garlic,  leek,  celery,  catsup,  Worcestershire 
sauce,  etc.,  for  increasing  flavor.  Bean  and  nut  loaves  should  be 
served  with  highly  seasoned  sauces. 

ITALIAN  TOMATO  SAUCE 

2       cups  cooked  tomatoes,  tsp.  salt, 

Vz  cup  finely  cut  onion,  Vz  cup  cut  green  peppers, 

Vz  cup  grated  or  cut  turnip,       4       tbsp.  butter  sub.  or  vegetable 
yz  cup  grated  or  cut  carrot,  drippings, 

?  2       tbsp.  flour. 

Cook  vegetables  (except  tomatoes)  in  the  fat  until  tender.  Add 
tomato  and  salt,  cook  5  minutes.  Put  through  strainer,  return  to 
fire,  add  flour  mixed  with  2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water,  boil  5  min- 
utes. 

PIMENTO  SAUCE 

Force  canned  pimento  through  a  strainer.  Add  2  cups  of  this 
puree  to  1  cup  of  white  sauce. 

BROWN  NUT  SAUCE 

2       tbsp.  drippings  or  1^   cups  meat  or  vegetable  stock 

vegetable  oil,  or  milk, 

2       tbsp.  peanut  butter,  Vz  tsp.  salt, 

3l/2  tbsp.   flour,  Few  grains  pepper. 

Brown  the  fat,  add  peanut  butter  and  when  well  mixed  add 
flour  and  continue  browning.  Pour  in  the  stock  gradually,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  salt  and 
pepper. 


Meat  Savers  45 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

2       tbsp.  veg.  fat,  1       tsp.  onion  juice, 

2       tbsp.  flour  or  1  tbsp.  corn         %  tsp.  salt, 

starch,  1       spoonful  of  salt  and  pepper. 

Vz  pt.  strained  tomatoes, 

Rub  the  vegetable  fat  and  flour  together;  add  the  water  and 
onion  juice;  stir  until  boiling  and  add  the  salt  and  pepper. 

U.   S.   Food  Administration. 

CAPER  SAUCE 

Make  a  plain  white  sauce,  take  from  fire  and  add  capers. 

BROWNING  OR  KITCHEN  BOUQUET 

This  can  be  purchased  at  any  grocer's  or  may  be  made  at  home. 
Put  1  cup  of  sugar  in  an  iron  frying  pan  over  the  fire,  shake  and 
stir  until  it  melts  and  turns  a  dark  brown  and  smokes.  Add  12 
cups  water,  stir  until  boiling,  add  a  chopped  onion,  six  whole 
cloves,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  saltspoonful  black  pepper  and  a  dash 
of  Tabasco  sauce.  Simmer  twenty  miuutes,  strain  and  bottle  for 
use.  This  will  keep  for  months. 

BROWN  SAUCE 

2       tbsp.  vegetable  fat,  1       tsp.    Kitchen   Bouquet  or 

2       tbsp.  flour,  Browning, 

Vz  pt.  stock  or  water,  Vz  tsp.  salt, 

Saltspoonful  black  pepper. 
Rub  the  vegetable  fat  and  flour  together,  add  the  stock  or  water 

and  stir  until  boiling.     Add  the  Kitchen  Bouquet  or  Browning,  salt 
and  pepper. 

BROWN     MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

1  forty  cent  can  French  2  tbsp.  flour, 

mushrooms,  4  tbsp.  butter, 

2  cups  of  stock,  Salt,  pepper. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  stir  until  a  very  dark  brown, 
then  gradually  add  the  stock;  when  this  boils  up,  add  the  liquor 
from  the  mushrooms.  Season  and  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Skim 
off  any  fat  that  may  rise  to  the  top;  add  the  mushrooms  and  sim- 
mer 5  minutes  longer.  Too  much  cooking  toughens  the  mush- 
rooms. This  sauce  is  to  be  served  with  any  kind  of  roasted, 
broiled  or  braised  meats.  It  is  especially  nice  with  beef. 


46  "Win  the   War"  Cook  Book 

Nuts  as  Meat  Substitutes 

Nuts  vary  considerably  in  composition,  some  as  chestnuts  being 
starchy,  others  as  cocoanut  and  walnuts  being  especially  rich  in 
fat,  while  many  as  almonds,  Brazil  nuts,  butternuts  and  peanuts 
are  rich  in  protein  and  fat. 

The  protein  of  nuts  as  far  as  known  at  present  has  not  the 
value  of  animal  protein.  When  used  with  some  cheese,  milk  or 
meat  they  make  an  excellent  meat  substitute.  When  used  with- 
out these  they  make  good  meat  savers.  With  the  constant  ten- 
dency toward  higher  cost  of  meat  and  the  necessity  of  shipping 
meat  to  our  allies  and  our  own  soldiers  (for  they  in  their  exposed 
life  need  the  blood  producing  elements  of  meat)  and  with  the 
growing  knowledge  of  nut  culture  we  may  look  for  a  much  larger 
use  of  nuts  as  "meat  substitutes." 

lOc  spent  for  beefsteak  will  buy  about  400  calories  with  almost 
30  gms.  protein. 

lOc  spent  for  peanuts  would  buy  about  1800  calories  with  90 
gms.  protein. 

lOc  spent  for  peanut  butter  would  buy  about  750  calories  with 
35  gms.  of  protein. 

Thus  nuts  are  plainly  a  more  economical  food  from  standpoint 
of  food  value. 

Sherman. 

PEANUT  CROQUETTES 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  Celery  salt, 
*4  cup  ground  peanuts,                Paprika, 

V2  tsp.  salt,  1       egg, 

%  tsp.  butter  sub.,  %  tsp.   chopped   parsley. 

Add  seasoning, -butter  and  beaten  egg  to  potatoes,  also  ground 
peanuts.  Shape,  roll  in  crumbs,  then  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep 
fat.  Serve  with  white  sauce  or  tomato  sauce. 

Miss  J.  Crowder, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  Central  High  School. 

BAKED  OATMEAL  AND  NUTS 

2  cups   cooked   oatmeal,  1       tsp.  vinegar, 
1       cup   crushed  peanuts,  ~Vz  tsp.  pepper, 

^  cup  milk,  1%  tsp.  salt. 

Mix  together  and  bake  in  a  greased  pan  15  minutes.     This  is 


Meat  Savers  47 

enough  for  five  people.    Instead  of  meat,  cook  this  appetizing  dish 

for  your  family. 

U.   S.   Food  Administration. 

BAKED  RICE  AND  PEANUTS 

2       cups  cooked  rice,  %  cup  shelled  peanuts, 

1       cup  white  sauce. 

Butter  a  casserole  or  baking  pan.  Place  in  a  thin  layer  of 
cooked  rice,  then  some  peanuts,  and  next,  white  sauce.  Arrange 
all  ingredients  in  layers,  having  white  sauce  on  top.  Cover  with 
bread  crumbs  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  20  minutes,  having 
the  top  slightly  browned. 

Hilda  Z.   Rollman, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  Cote  Brilliante  School. 

PEANUT  ROAST 

iy2  cups  shelled  peanuts,  1  tsp.  baking  powder, 

l1/^  cups  dried  bread  crumbs,        1  egg, 

Milk  to  moisten  crumbs,  Salt,  pepper. 

Cover  bread  crumbs  with  milk  and  soak  until  soft.  Chop  pea- 
nuts fine,  mix  with  baking  powder,  beat  the  egg.  Mix  thoroughly 
all  ingredients,  turn  into  oiled  baking  pan.  Bake  25  minutes  in 
moderate  oven.  Serve  hot  with  tomato  sauce. 

SCALLOPED  ONIONS  AND  PEANUTS 

5       medium  onions,  1  cup  milk, 

%  cup  peanuts,  1  tbsp.  flour, 

1      tbsp.  fat,  Salt. 
4       cups  bread  crumbs, 

Boil  onions,  drain  and  slice,  melt  fat,  add  flour,  and  cook  3  min- 
utes. Add  milk  and  cook  till  it  thickens.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  In  a  greased  baking  dish,  alternate  layers  of  bread 
crumbs,  onions,  peanuts  and  cover  with  white  sauce.  Brown  in  a 
hot  oven.  The  top  layer  should  be  bread  crumbs. 

Anna  Jensen, 
Domestic   Science  Instructor,   Central   High   School, 

St.  Joseph,  Mo. 


48  "Win  the   War"  Cook  Book 

WALNUT  ROAST 

^3  cup  cooked  rice,  1       egg, 

%  cup  bread  crumbs,  1       small  onion, 

1       cup  ground  walnuts,  %  tsp.  salt, 

1       cup  solid  tomatoes,  %  tsp.  pepper, 

1       pt.  mashed  potatoes,  Parsley. 

Anna  Jensen, 
Domestic   Science   Instructor,   Central  High   School, 

St.  Joseph,  Mo. 

NUT   AND   CHEESE   LOAF   (University   of   111.) 

1  cup  grated  cheese,  1       tsp.  salt, 

1  cup  nuts,  %  tsp.  pepper, 

1  cup  dry  bread  crumbs,  tbsp.  onion, 

2  tbsp.  water,  1       tbsp.  oil. 

Cook  onion  in  cooking  oil  and  water  until  tender.  Strain  into 
mixture  of  cheese  ground  nuts  and  crumbs.  Add  seasoning. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  until  brown.  Garnish  with  lemon  points. 

Patriotic  Food  Show, 

St.  Louis,  Mo. 

NUT  SURPRISE 

Parboil  six  medium  onions  in  salt  water.  Hollow  out  centers  of 
onions,  chop  centers  and  mix  with  one  cup  of  ground  nuts  %  cup 
bread  crumbs  and  %  cup  standard  cream  sauce.  Fill  onions  with 
this  mixture,  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  let  brown  in 
oven. 

Patriotic  Food  Show, 
St.  Louis,  Mo. 


Meat  Savers  49 


Cheese  as  a  Meat  Substitute 

Cheese  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  meat  substitutes.  Whole 
cheese  contains  about  25  per  cent  protein  and  cottage  cheese 
about  20  per  cent.  U.  S.  Food  Administration  urges  the  larger 
manufacture  and  use  of  cottage  cheese,  utilizing  the  skim  milk. 

Cheese  is  a  concentrated  form  of  food.  It  is  rich  in  both  pro- 
tein and  fat.  In  combination  with  starchy  food  it  may  be  used  as 
a  substitute  for  meat.  Experiments  have  proved  that  cheese  does 
not  ordinarily  cause  indigestion  and  neither  is  it  a  frequent  cause 
of  constipation. 

A  recent  compilation  describes  no  less  than  350  varieties  of 
cheese. 

Cheese  is  divided  into  two  main  types: 

Hard    Cheeses:    Chedder,    Edam,    Emmental    (or    Swiss), 

Parmesan  and  Roquefort. 

Soft   Cheeses:     Brie,   Camembert,   Gorgonzola,   Limberg, 

Neufchatel  and  Stilton. 

FOOD  VALUE  AS  COMPARED  TO  MEAT 

1  Ib.  chedder  cheese=2,079  calories 

1  Ib.  beef  tenderloin=l,290  calories 

1.24  oz.  of  beef=.77  oz.  cheese=100  calories 

3V2  to  5V2  oz.  raw  meat=usual  serving. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE 

Cottage  cheese  is  one  of  the  important  meat  substitutes,  say 
specialists  of  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture.  It  contains  a 
larger  percentage  of  protein  than  most  meats  and  furnishes  this 
material  at  a  lower  cost.  In  every  pound  of  cottage  cheese  there 
is  about  one-fifth  of  a  pound  of  protein,  nearly  all  of  which  is 
digestible.  Meats,  on  the  other  hand,  usually  contain  less  pro- 
tein and,  besides,  have  a  certain  waste,  such  as  bone  and  other 
inedible  material  A  pound  of  cottage  cheese  daily  would  supply 
all  the  protein  required  by  the  ordinary  adult  engaged  in  a  seden- 
tary occupation. 


50  "Win  the  War"  Cook  Book 

CHEESE  ON  TOAST 

1       tbsp.  butter  substitute,  1  cup  milk, 

IMs  tbsp.  flour,  3A  cup  grated  cheese, 

1       tsp.  salt,  1  egg. 

%  tsp.  pepper, 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients.  Melt  butter  and  add  dry  ingredients. 
Add  milk  gradually  and  stir  well,  cooking  for  five  minutes.  Add 
cheese  and  cook  until  dissolved.  Add  to  slightly  beaten  egg  and 
cook  until  egg  begins  to  thicken.  Serve  on  hot  toast. 

Hilda   Rollman, 
Domestic   Science  Instructor,   Cote  Brilliante   School. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  ON  TOAST 

ll/2  cups  cottage  cheese,  4  tbsp.  flour, 

1       cup  milk,  1  egg, 

1       cup  tomato  juice,  1  tbsp.  fat. 

Make  white  sauce  of  flour,  fat,  milk  and  tomato,  stir  in  cottage 
cheese  and  beaten  egg  and  serve  on  toast. 

CHEESE  FONDU 

V/3  cups  hot  milk,  iy3  cups  soft  stale  bread  crumbs, 

1       tsp.  butter  substitute,  4       eggs 

l/3  lb.  of  grated  cheese,  %  tsp.  salt. 

Mix  the  milk,  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  cheese,  add  the  yolks 
thoroughly  beaten;  into  this  mixture  cut  and  fold  the  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and 
cook  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  at  once. 

The  protein  value  of  this  dish  is  equal  to  that  of  one  and  one- 
eighth  pounds  of  potato  and  beef;  the  calculated  cost,  22  cents. 

CHEESE   CUSTARD 

4       eggs,  2     cups  milk, 

y2  tsp.  salt,  •/£  cup  grated  cheese. 

%  tsp.  pepper, 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  seasoning,  cheese  and  hot  milk.  Pour 
into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  or  custard  cups  and  set  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water.  Bake  about  one-half  hour,  or  until  the  handle  of 
a  spoon  can  be  run  into  it  and  will  come  out  clean. 


Meat  Savers  51 

1.— STEAMED  CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

4  tbsp.  oleo,  i/4  tsp.  mustard, 

4  tbsp.  flour,  3       eggs, 

1  cup  milk,  y2   Ib.  cheese  cut  fine, 

4  tsp.  salt,  3       egg  whites. 

Melt  fat,  add  flour  and  stir  smooth,  then  add  milk.  Cook  di- 
rectly over  the  fire,  stirring  constantly,  until  it  boils,  for  1  min- 
ute. Remove  from  fire,  add  condiments,  then  egg  yolks  (beaten 
smooth),  the  cheese,  and  lastly  cut  and  fold  in  the  egg  whites, 
beaten  stiff,  and  dry.  Smooth  the  top  cover  immediately,  place 
the  vessel  over  boiling  water  and  cook  without  lifting  the  lid  for 
30  minutes.  This  dish  should  be  made  either  in  a  double  boiler 
or  a  chafing  dish. 

Miss    Mary    Evans, 
Domestic   Science   Instructor,   Yeatman   High   School. 

ASPARAGUS   WITH    CHEESE 

Drain  liquor  from  one  can  of  asparagus  tips,  arrange  the  stalks 
on  squares  of  toast  and  pour  over  a  sauce  made  as  follows: 
Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter  substitute,  with  this  blend  two 
tablespoons  of  flour,  add  one  cup  of  hot  milk  and  cook  until  it 
thickens;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Now  stir  in  a  half  cup  of 
grated  cheese.  When  cheese  is  melted  pour  over  asparagus. 

BAKED  STUFFED  CUCUMBERS 

Wipe  and  peel  cucumbers,  cut  in  two-inch  pieces,  crosswise, 
and  remove  seeds.  Mix  four  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  two 
tablespoons  of  finely  chopped  cooked  ham  and  two  tablespoons 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Moisten  with  tomato  sauce  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  cucumber  cups  in  shallow  pan. 
Fill  with  mixture,  surround  with  chicken  stock,  and  bake  thirty 
minutes.  Remove,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until 
crumbs  are  brown. 

BAKED  HOMINY  AND  CHEESE 

1  tbsp.  of  oleo.  or  drippings,  %  tsp.  paprika, 

1  tbsp.   cornstarch  or  y2  to  1    cup    cheese,    grated    or 

2  tbsp.  of  flour,  cut  fine, 

1  cup  milk,  2       cups  cooked  hominy, 

1  tsp.  salt,  %   cup  bread  crumbs. 


52  "Win  the  War"  Cook  Book 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  fat,  cornstarch,  salt  and  milk,  add  the 
cheese  and  paprika  to  the  sauce,  arrange  the  hominy  in  baking 
dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it.  Cover  with  crumbs  and  bake 
20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  The  hominy  and  cheese  may  be 
arranged  in  layers  and  the  white  sauce  poured  over  it  if  desired. 

CHEESE  AND  COWPEA  LOAF 

2       cups  cooked  cowpeas,  1  tbsp.  butter  substitute, 

mashed  or  run  through  1  tbsp.   chopped   green   pepper, 

sieve,  1  small  onion,  chopped. 
%  cup  grated  cheese, 

Cook  the  vegetables  in  the  fat,  mix  with  the  peas  and  form 
into  a  loaf.  Bake,  basting  with  butter  substitute  and  water.  Use 
as  a  meat  substitute,  either  hot  or  cold. 

BOSTON  ROAST 

1  Ib.  beans   (cooked),  Bread  crumbs, 
%  Ib.  cottage  cheese,  Salt. 

Run  beans  through  food  grinder,  add  cheese  and  enough  crumbs 
to  form  a  stiff  roll.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  baste  with  butter 
or  some  fat.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Miss  Anthony, 
Instructor  Domestic   Science,  Maryville,   Mo. 

CORN  AND  CHEESE 

Cook  corn,  cut  from  cob,  y2  cup  cheese. 

2  cups  corn, 

Make  as  macaroni  and  cheese,  using  white  sauce  No.  4,  cayenne 
pepper.  Pimento  and  cottage  cheese  with  fish,  good  substitute 
for  meat. 

Miss  Anthony, 
Domestic   Science   Instructor,   State   Normal   School, 

Maryville,  Mo. 

2.— CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

3  eggs,  1  cup  cheese  (grated). 

Make  white  sauce,  using  2  tbsp.  fat,  2  tbsp.  flour  and  one-half 
cup  milk.  Add  yolks  to  sauce,  add  cheese,  cool.  Add  stiffly 


Meat  Savers  53 

beaten  egg  whites.     Pour  in  buttered  baking   dish.     Set  in  hot 
water,  bake  10  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Miss  Anthony, 
Domestic   Science   Instructor,   State  Normal   School, 

Maryville,  Mo. 

CHEESE  OMELET 

4  eggs,  2  tsp.  chopped  parsley    (may  be 

4  tbsp.  cheese,  grated,  omitted). 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 

Beat  eggs,  add  other  ingredients,  turn  into  hot  omelet  pan 
well  greased  with  veg.  oil,  fold,  serve  on  hot  dish. 

NEUFCHATEL  CHEESE  BALLS 

To  be  served  on  luncheon  plate. 

2  Neufchatel   cheeeses,  Salt,  pepper,  red  or  white, 
A  little  cream,                                     Ground  or  chopped  pecans. 

Mix   ingredients,   form   in  balls,   roll   in    the  nuts. 

BAKED  CHEESE  WITH  EGG 

6       tbsp.  cheese   (grated),  2%  tbsp.  veg.  oil, 

%  pt.  milk,  Whites  of  2  eggs, 

3  egg  yolks,  3  slices  of  bread, 

A  little  mustard,  Salt  and  red  pepper. 

Put  milk  and  bread  on  to  boil,  stir,  add  cheese  and  fat.  Place 
over  fire  and  stir  for  one  minute;  add  seasoning  and  yolks  of  eggs, 
also  whites  beaten  stiff,  stir  gently,  pour  into  greased  casserole, 
bake  a  light  brown. 

CHEESE  BALLS 

1V2  cups  of  cheese,  grated,  A   few  drops  of  Worcestershire 

%  cup  fine  bread  crumbs,  sauce. 

1       egg,  well  beaten, 

Roll  into  balls  one  inch  in  diameter,  just  before  serving  drop  into 
hot  fat  to  brown.  Serve  hot  with  salads. 

CHEESE  STRIPS 

1       cup   flour,  Vz  tsp.  baking  powder, 

1       tbsp.  Troco  or  oleo,  %  tsp.  salt, 

*4  cup  grated  cheese,  A  dash  of  cayenne. 

Mix  with  water  as  for  biscuits,  roll  out  thin,  cut  in  strips,  bake  in 
moderate  oven. 


54  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

CHEESE  STRAWS 


Ibs.  grated  cheese,  1       tsp.  salt, 

1       cup  white  flour,  2  tbsp.  cream, 

1       cup  white  corn  meal,  Dash  of  cayenne. 
%  cup  veg.  oil, 

Mix  well  as  for  biscuits,  make  a  very  stiff  dough,  roll  out  to  a/4 
inch  in  thickness,  cut  in  strips  4  inches  in  length,  %  inch  wide, 
and  bake  golden  brown. 

Note:  Cheese  should  be  wrapped  in  a  slightly  damp  cloth  or  in 
paraffin  paper  and  then  in  wrapping  paper.  It  should  be  kept  in  a 
cool  place.  Never  cover  cheese  in  a  dish  from  which  the  air  has 
been  wholly  excluded,  as  it  molds  more  readily. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  AND  NUT  LOAF 

1  cup  cottage  cheese  (or  grat-  1       tsp.  salt, 

ed  cheese),  */4  tsp.  pepper, 

1  cup  nut  meats,  2       tbsp.  chopped  onion, 

1  cup    stale   bread   crumbs,  1       tbsp.    oleo.,    meat    drippings 
Juice  of  %   lemon,  or  table  oils. 

Mix  the  cheese,  ground  nuts,  crumbs,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Cook  the  onion  in  the  fat  and  little  water  until  tender.  Add 
to  the  first  mixture  the  onion  and  sufficient  water  or  meat  stock  to  • 
moisten.  Mix  well,  pour  into  a  baking  dish  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
Variations:  two  cups  of  cooked  oatmeal  may  be  substituted  for  the 
cheese  and  bread  crumbs.  One  pound  of  beans  cooked  and  put 
through  a  sieve  may  be  substituted  for  the  nuts.  American  cheese, 
grated  or  cut  fine,  may  be  used  in  place  of  cottage  cheese.  The 
amount  of  liquid  added  will  vary  in  each  case.  The  seasoning  may 
be  varied  to  suit  the  taste. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

Note:  Especial  attention  must  be  given  to  seasoning  of  dishes 
which  have  as  their  foundation  beans,  rice  or  other  foods,  having 
little  flavor  of  their  own.  Use  peppers,  onion,  garlic,  catsup,  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  etc.,  for  increasing  flavor.  Beans  and  nut 
loaves  should  be  served  with  highly  seasoned  sauces. 

Note:  Rinds  and  bits  of  cheese  may  be  scalded,  dried  and 
ground  for  use  in  any  dishes  requiring  cheese. 


Meat  Stivers  55 


Fish  as  a  Meat  Substitute 

Eat  more  fish  and  sea  food  to  save  meat,  is  the  request  of  our 
Government.  The  fish  products,  as  estimated  by  the  Bureau  of 
Fisheries,  amount  to  2,169,000,000  pounds  in  weight. 

Fresh  Fish — 10  per  cent  to  14  per  cent  protein. 

Buying  of  Fish: 

1.  Find  the  varieties  recommended  by  the   United  States   Gov- 
ernment and  ask  for  them.     Insist  that  your  dealer  carries  them. 
Look  up  their  food  value  and  the  best  methods  for  their  prepara- 
tion. 

2.  In  winter  use  frozen  fish.     Frozen  foods  are  best  cooked  be- 
fore thawing  them.     It  is  becoming  a  common  practice  to  pre- 
serve fruits   and  vegetables   by  freezing,  but  they  must  be   used 
before    thawing   if    the    quality    of    the    food    is    to    be    preserved. 
Frozen  fish  cooked  at  once  is  as  delicious  as  fresh  fish,  providing 
the  fish  was  originally  fresh. 

3.  Use  fish  all  the  week,  so  that  the  demand  will  be  extended 
and  it  will  be  possible  to  get  it  on  other  days  than  Friday. 

4.  A  large  number  of  perfectly  good  fish  are  being  wasted  each 
year  because  there  is  no  demand  for  them.     We  are  too  conserva- 
tive  and  cling  to   the  use   of  certain  well-known  varieties,  while 
others  equally  good  are  not  used. 

5.  If  possible,  buy  local  fish,  to  avoid  shipping.     This  rule  does 
not  hold  in  winter,  when  it  is  almost  impossible  to  get  river  fish. 

POINTS  TO   BE   REMEMBERED   IN   THE   PREPARATION   OF 

FISH 

1.  Fish  is  tender;  therefore  long  cooking  is  not  necessary. 

2.  Flavor  should  be  retained  and  added. 

3.  Most  fish  lack  fat;  therefore  the  addition  of  it  is  desirable 
from  the  standpoint  of  food  value  as  well  as  flavor. 

A  fish  to  be  eatable  must  be  perfectly  fresh.  Nothing  else  in 
the  line  of  food  deteriorates  so  rapidly.  Fresh  fish  may  be  pre- 
served frozen  by  the  best  cold  storage  process  for  at  least  two 
years,  but  if  once  heated  and  allowed  to  stand,  nothing  will  bring 
back  the  delicious  flavor  of  a  fish  just  caught.  Fresh  fish  will  be 


BERLIN,  JAN.  15; 

WHILE  PUTTING  ON  A  BOLD  FRONT,  AMERICA  is  SHOWING  SIGNS  OF  WEAKNESS  BEHIND  THE  LINES 


COURTESY   DONNELL  5T. LOUIS  GLOBE  DEMOCRAT 


Meat  Savers  57 

firm  and  the  skin  and  scales  bright.  When  a  fish  looks  dim  and 
limp  do  not  buy  it.  Fish  should  be  washed  quickly  in  only  one 
cold  water.  Wash  whole  and  cut  up  for  frying  after,  if  fish  is  to 
be  cut  in  pieces. 

Fish  may  be  baked,  broiled,  boiled,  fried  or  sauted.  Fresh  cod, 
lake  trout,  red  snapper,  haddock  are  good  boiled. 

TO  BOIL  FISH 

Pin  the  fish  in  a  piece  of  strong  white  cotton  cloth  and  plunge 
into  boiling  salt  water,  let  simmer  gently  for  30  minutes,  longer 
or  shorter  time  according  to  size  of  fish.  Boiled  fish  may  be 
served  with  a  great  variety  of  sauces. 

BOUILLON 

If  fish  is  boiled  in  the  following  bouillon  it  will  add  greatly  to 
its  flavor. 

4  qts.  of  water,  1  tsp.  pepper, 

1  onion,  1  tbsp.  vinegar, 

1  slice  of  carrot,  Juice    Vz   lemon, 

2  cloves,  Some  herb  may  be  used. 
2  tbsp.  salt, 

Tie  all  spices  in  muslin  bag.  Cook  all  together,  simmering 
slowly  for  one  hour.  Put  in  the  fish  and  cook  as  directed  for  one 
hour. 

BAKED  FISH 

Make  a  dressing  of  rolled  crackers  (fine),  salt,  pepper  and 
chopped  parsley,  a  small  quantity  of  chopped  salt  pork  (or  but- 
ter substitute  will  do). 

After  fish  has  been  carefully  cleansed,  rub  well  with  salt,  put  in 
dressing  and  sew  up  the  fish.  Cut  gashes  in  the  sides  of  fish 
about  1  inch  deep  and  2  inches  long.  Fill  gashes  with  strips  of 
fat  salt  pork.  Now  put  the  fish  into  the  baking  pan,  dredge  well 
with  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with 
water  and  put  into  moderate  oven.  A  five-pound  fish  should  bake 
in  about  one  hour.  The  fish  should  be  basted  about  every  15 
minutes.  Water  must  be  renewed  often  as  only  the  bottom  of 
pan  should  be  kept  covered.  Do  not  allow  the  pan  to  burn.  When 
done  carefully  slip  the  fish  into  center  of  hot  platter,  pour  over 


58  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

any  kind  of  sauce  desired,  garnish  and  serve.  It  is  well. to  place 
fish  on  tin  sheet  before  putting  in  baking  dish;  it  will  then  slip 
easily  onto  platter  without  breaking. 

SAUTED  FISH 

All  small  fish  like  brook  trout,  smelts,  perch,  cat,  are  best 
fried.  -^ 

When  thoroughly  cleaned  they  should  be  rolled  in  a  mixture  of 
flour  and  Indian  meal,  thoroughly  mixed,  salted  and  peppered. 
Fry  brown  on  one  side  in  shallow  vegetable  fat  or  salt  pork  drip- 
pings, turn  carefully,  brown  and  serve  on  hot  platter.  Sliced 
fish  may  be  fried  in  the  same  manner.  Do  not  burn  the  fish. 

CREAMED  COD  FISH 

Buy  the  large  white,  boneless  steaks  of  cod,  break  into  small 
pieces,  let  stand  Vz  hour  in  water,  drain. 

Make  cream  sauce,  2  to  1. 

Add  fish,  let  stand  over  very  slow  fire  until  heated  through,  do 
not  boil  after  fish  is  added.  A  beaten  egg  makes  the  dish  richer. 

1  cup  cod  fish,  1       egg. 
1%  cup  cream  sauce  (2  to  1), 

COD  FISH     BALLS 

2  pts.  raw  potatoes,  Pepper, 

1  Dound  cod  fish,  1  tbsp.  veg.  fat. 
Salt, 

Boil  cod  fish  picked  in  pieces  with  potatoes  until  latter  are  done, 
mash,  beat,  add  beaten  eggs,  salt,  pepper  and  fry  light  brown  in 
vegetable  oil  or  butter  substitute. 

BAKED  SALT  FISH 

2  cups  salt    (flaked),  2  eggs, 

2  cups  cold   mashed   potatoes,        2  to   3   tbsp.   of   drippings. 
1  pt.  milk, 

Soak  the  flaked  fish  in  cold  water  over  night.  Freshen  the 
fish  by  boiling  up  several  times  in  fresh  water  (usually  three 
times  is  sufficient).  Then  simmer  until  tender.  Drain  off  the 
water,  mix  the  potatoes  with  the  milk,  eggs,  fat  and  season- 
ing. Add  the  fish,  turn  into  a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  one- 
half  hour. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 


Meat  Savers  59 

SALMON  CROQUETTES 

Other  fish  may  be  substituted. 

cups    thick   rich   cream  1       tsp.  onion  juice  or  finely 


sauce,  chopped  onion, 

1       small  can  good  brand  sal-          Vi   tsp.   pepper, 
mon,  1       tbsp.  parsley. 

Remove  bones,  skin  and  oil  from  salmon,  mix  salmon  into 
cream  sauce,  add  other  ingredients,  shape  into  balls,  dip  in  egg 
and  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat  a  light  brown.  Serve 
with  sauce. 

SALMON   LOAF 

Mince  a  can  of  salmon;  add  one  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  two 
beaten  eggs  and  Vz  cup  milk.  Season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper, 
parsley  and  lemon  juice.  Put  in  a  buttered  mold  and  steam  or 
bake  for  thirty  minutes.  Turn  from  mold  and  serve  hot  with 
white  or  Hollandaise  sauce.  Remnants  of  a  baked  fish  and  its 
stuffing  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  salmon  and  bread  crumbs. 

May  Secrist, 
H.  E.  Dept.,  Cal.  Polytechnic. 

SALMON  AND  MASHED  POTATOES 

1  can  of  salmon,  Onion, 

2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes,  Pepper  —  salt  to   taste. 

Mix  all  and  form  in  cakes  and  fry.     Serve  hot. 

C.  L.  Bruno, 
Wellston. 

HOMINY  AND  FISH  LOAF 

1  cup  hominy  grits,  2  cups  skimmed  milk, 

2  cups  water,  1  tsp.  salt. 

Cook  the  hominy,  milk,  water  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler  for 
6  hours.  Serve  as  a  vegetable  or  cereal.  For  the  second  day  line 
and  oil  bowl  with  the  cold  hominy,  fill  the  center  with  flaked  sal- 
mon, cover  with  hominy  and  steam  for  one  hour.  Turn  onto  a  hot 
platter  and  serve  with  a  sauce  made  from  the  liquor  that  was  in 
the  salmon  as  a  base. 

Miss  Mary  Evans, 
Domestic   Science  Instructor,  Yeatman  High  School. 


GO  "Win  the  War"  Cook  Book 

BAKED  TUNA  FISH 

1  can  Tuna  fish,  No.  2,  Vz  cup  fine  bread  or  cracker 

6-10  crackers,  crumbs. 

cups  cream  sauce,  thick, 


Break  up  Tuna  fish  with  fork,  butter  baking  dish  or  casserole. 

Alternate  the  layers  of  fish,  cream  sauce  and  crackers,  put 
small  bits  of  butter  substitute  and  fine  crumbs  on  top.  Juice  of 
lemon  may  be  used  over  all  if  desired.  Serve  with  baked  potatoes 
and  a  relish. 

Tuna  fish  has  been  called  the  chicken  of  the  sea. 

HALLENDEN  HALIBUT 

Arrange  6  slices  salt  pork  or  bacon,  21/&  inches  square,  and  a 
bay  leaf.  Place  on  this  2  pounds  sliced  halibut.  Cover  with  3 
tablespoonfuls  oil  or  butter  substitute,  creamed  and  mixed  with 
3  tablespoonfuls  flour.  Cover  with  oiled  bread  crumbs  and  lard 
with  thin  strips  of  salted  pork.  Cover  with  oiled  paper  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  50  minutes.  Remove  the  paper  last  15  minutes, 
garnish  with  lemon  and  chopped  parsley. 

PLANKED   WHITEFISH    (Whitefish   or    Shad   Preferred) 

Select  a  1  to  2-pound  fish.  It  should  be  cleaned  by  opening 
down  the  front.  Start  at  the  tail  end  and  loosen  the  backbone 
by  running  the  finger  or  a  sharp  knife  underneath.  Break  off 
where  it  joins  the  tail  fin.  Follow  the  bone  up,  loosening  as  you 
go.  Most  of  the  bones  will  come  out  with  the  backbone.  Any 
small  bones  that  are  left  may  be  picked  out  later. 

Soak  a  plank  well  to  prevent  burning.  Lay  fish  on  plank  skin 
side  down  and  place  either  in  main  part  of  oven  or  in  the  broiler 
until  tender  and  slightly  browned.  Serve  with  Maitre  d'Hotel 
butter. 

BAKED  SPANISH  MACKEREL 

Clean  and  wash  well.  Fill  with  a  stuffing  prepared  from  the 
following  ingredients:  2  cups  bread  crumbs,  *4  cup  corn  oil,  a 
small  onion  sliced,  %  teaspoonful  of  sage,  chopped  celery  and 
parsley.  Lay  in  pan,  cover  witth  strips  of  salt  pork  and  bake  20 
to  30  minutes.  Any  other  fish  may  be  prepared  in  this  same  way. 


Meat  Savers  61 

BROILED   EULACHON 

Dress  without  splitting  and  wipe  dry.     Score  across  the  back, 

broil  slowly  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  once.     No  fat  need  be  used. 

Serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  a  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  and  lemon 

juice.  - 1  <; 

Broiled  fresh  whiting,  prepared  in  same  way  as  the  Eulachon. 

BAKED  SABLE  FISH 

Cut  fish  in  slices  about  an  inch  thick.  Have  a  hot  baking  pan 
ready  with  just  enough  fat  to  prevent  the  fish  from  sticking.  Dip 
the  fish  steak  in  a  mixture  of  one  egg  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk.  (The  soaked  fried  egg  may  be  used  for  this.)  Place  in 
baking  pan  and  put  in  moderate  oven  until  both  sides  are 
browned.  This  is  a  very  acceptable  substitute  for  fried  fish.  Serve 
with  lemon. 

CORN  MEAL  FISH  BALLS 

2  cups  cold  white  corn  meal         1  egg, 

mush,  1  tbsp.  butter. 

1  cup  shredded  codfish, 

Pick  over  the  codfish  and  soak  it  to  remove  salt  if  necessary. 
Combine  the  ingredients  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  fat.  Drain 
on  porous  paper.  These  codfish  balls  compare  very  favorably  in 
taste  with  those  made  with  potatoes  and  are  prepared  more  easily 
and  quickly.  The  mush  must  be  as  dry  as  possible.  This  make 
12  fish  balls. 

Farmers'  Bulletin  565. 

JELLIED  FISH 

1%  cups  flaked  fish,  2       tbsp.  lemon  juice, 

2  tbsp.  chopped  capers,  *4  tsp.  salt, 

1       tbsp.  gran,  gelatine,  2       tbsp.  cold  water. 

1       cup  boiling  water, 

Mix  the  fish  and  capers.     Arrange  in  a  mold.     Soak  the  gelatine 

in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Add  the  boiling  water  and 
stir  until  the  gelatine  dissolves,  then  add  the  lemon  juice  and  salt. 
Pour  this  jelly  carefully  over  the  fish  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to 
harden.  Cut  into  portions  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  salad  dress- 
ing. If  desired  celery  to  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices  may  be 
added  to  the  fish. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 


62  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

CREOLE  TOMATOES 

Wipe  six  medium-sized  tomatoes,  remove  a  slice  from  the  top 
of  each,  scoop  out  some  of  the  pulp,  sprinkle  insides  with  salt, 
invert  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Melt  one  and  one-half  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  vegetable  fat,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  stir  until 
well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
•/£  cupful  of  milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  one  cup  of 
crab  meat,  one  tablespoonful  of  green  pepper  (from  which  the 
seeds  have  been  removed)  finely  chopped,  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
^4  teaspoonful  of  paprika,  and  a  few  grains  of  pepper.  Fill  toma- 
toes with  mixture,  sprinkle  tops  with  coarse,  buttered  bread 
crumbs,  put  in  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  15  or  20 
minutes. 

CREAMED  TUNA  FISH 

A  nice  breakfast  or  luncheon  dish.  Try  Tuna  fish  salad  (sea 
chicken  salad),  substituting  Tuna  for  chicken. 

1  can  Tuna  fish,  1  cup  cream  sauce, 

broken  into  pieces  with  sil-        A  little  parsley, 
ver  fork), 

Add  broken  fish  to  hot  cream  sauce;  do  not  cook  but  let  stand 
on  slow  fire  until  very  hot.  Serve  on  squares  of  buttered  toast. 

FINNAN  HADDIE  (Smoked) 

Remove    skin   carefully. 

Let  fish  come  to  boiling  point  in  clear  water;  remove  to  tin 
shallow  baking  pan,  cover  with  bits  of  butter  substitute,  dredge 
with  flour,  pour  over  1  pint  of  cream.  Place  in  the  broiler  of  gas 
stove,  let  it  brown  slightly,  serve  on  hot  platter.  This  makes  a 
nice  meal  when  served  with  baked  potatoes. 

BROILED    SALT   MACKEREL 

Freshen  the  fish  by  soaking  10  to  12  hours  with  the  skin  side  up. 
Change  the  water  several  times.  Simmer  until  tender  (15  to  20 
minutes)  in  water  to  which  1  teaspoonful  vinegar,  a  bay  leaf, 
one  slice  of  onion  and  a  sprig  of  parsley  have  been  added.  Drain, 
rub  the  fish  with  a  little  salt  and  margarine  or  other  fat;  grease 
the  hot  broiler  and  lay  the  fish  on  it.  Brown  on  both  sides  quickly, 
garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley. 


Meat  Savers  63 

OYSTERS,  FRIED 

2  doz.  large  oysters,  4  tbsp.   fine  cracker  crumbs, 

2  tbsp.  fat,  butter  or  veg.  fat,       Salt,  pepper. 

Heat  fat,  stir  in  the  flour,  put  in  oysters,  then  boil  up  once, 
add  the  hot  cream  and  pour  over  toast. 

OYSTER   PATTIES 

2  tbsp.  fat   (veg.  oil),  1  pt.  liquor  from  oysters, 

2  heaping  tbsp.  flour,  1  qt.  small  oysters   (drained). 

1  pt.  cream, 

Make  cream  sauce  of  fat,  flour,  liquor,  cream,  salt,  pepper;  put 
in  the  oysters  and  let  come  to  a  boil  or  until  edges  of  oysters  curl. 
Make  shells  of  rich  paste,  fill  and  cover  with  rounds  of  same 
paste,  set  in  oven  a  few  minutes,  serve  on  hot  plates. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS 


1  can  corn,  tbsp.  veg.  oil, 

1  pt.  oysters,  1       tbsp.  flour, 

1  cup  liquor  from  oysters  or          %  tsp.  salt, 

milk,  %  tsp.  pepper. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  mix  until  smooth,  add 
warm  liquor,  cook  until  slightly  thickened. 

Put  corn  and  oysters  in  two  layers  in  large  baking  dish,  add 
sauce.  Sprinkle  top  with  crumbs,  bake  30  to  45  minutes  in  mod- 
erate oven. 

Miss  Mary  Sherzer, 
St.  Louis  Public  Schools. 


OYSTER  COCKTAIL 

24       small  raw  oysters,  1A  tsp.  salt, 

3       tbsp.  tomato  catsup,  tsp.  chopped  celery, 

1%   tbsp.  lemon  juice  or  1%   tsp.  Worcestershire 

vinegar,  sauce, 

6       drops  of  Tabasco  sauce,  3       tsp.  grated  horse-radish. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  except  oysters  and  chill  thoroughly. 
Place  oysters  on  cracked  ice  in  cocktail  glasses,  and  just  before 
serving  add  the  sauce. 


64  "Win  the  War"  Cook  Book. 

DEVILED  CRABS 

1  cup  chopped  crabs,  %  cup  white  stock, 
*4   cup  mushrooms  finely               Yolks  2  eggs, 

chopped,  1       tsp.  chopped  parsley, 

2  tbsp.  veg.  oil,  Salt  and  pepper. 
2       tbsp.  flour, 

Make  a  sauce  of  vegetable  oil,  flour  and  stock;  add  yolks  of 
eggs,  seasonings  (except  parsley),  crab  meat  and  mushrooms; 
cook  3  minutes,  add  parsley  and  cool  mixture.  Wash  and  trim 
crab  shells,  fill  rounding  with  mixture,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs 
mixed  with  small  quantity  of  vegetable  oil.  Grease  on  top  with  a 
case  knife,  having  three  lines  parallel  with  each  other  across  the 
shell  and  three  short  lines  branching  from  outside  parallel  lines. 
Brown  crumbs  and  serve  hot  with  a  sauce. 

Elizabeth  Walker, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  University  City,  Mo. 

SAUCES 

MAITRE  D'HOTEL  BUTTER 

%  cup  butter  substitute,  %  tsp.  finely  chopped  parsley, 

%  tsp.  salt,  %  tsp.  lemon  juice. 

y3  tsp.  pepper, 

Cream  in  a  bowl  with  small  wooden  spoon.  Add  salt,  pepper 
and  parsley,  then  lemon  juice  very  slowly. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

Vz  cup  veg.  oil,  %  tsp.  salt, 

2      eggs  (yolks  only),  A  few  grains  cayenne  pepper, 

1      tbsp.  lemon  juice,  */s  cup  boiling  water. 

Put  V$  vegetable  oil  in  a  sauce  pan  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
and  lemon  juice.  Place  over  hot  water  and  stir  constantly.  Add 
slowly  as  it  thickens  the  last  of  the  vegetable  oil;  add  the  water  and 
cook  one  minute.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE 

Mix  to  a  smooth  paste  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  substitute, 
and  one  of  flour;  put  bowl  in  pan  of  boiling  water  on  the  fire,  add- 
ing gradually  V2  pint  of  boiling  water  or  stock;  stir  until  it 
thickens,  add  %  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cook  until  flour  is  done  and 
smooth;  if  it  is  to  be  used  for  fish  put  in  chopped  eggs  and 
capers.  If  wanted  acid,  use  a  little  venegar  or  lemon  juice. 


Meat  Savers  65 

SAUCES 
REURRE  NOIR 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  substitute,  one  of  vinegar,  one  of 
chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  %  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  1A  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Put  the  butter 
substitute  in  the  frying  pan  and  when  very  hot  add  the  parsley 
and  then  the  other  ingredients.  Boil  up  once.  This  sauce  is 
for  fried  and  broiled  fish,  and  it  is  poured  over  the  fish  before 
sending  to  the  table. 

AURORA  SAUCE 

Aurora  sauce  for  fish  is  prepared  by  adding  to  1  pint  of  thick 
tomato  sauce  %  of  a  cup  of  chopped  canned  mushrooms,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  liquor,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter substitute  cut  into  bits  and  stirring  until  the  butter  substitute 
is  absorbed. 


66  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 


Poultry  as  a  Meat  Substitute 

"Eat  poultry;  it  does  not  make  army  rations." 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

Poultry  (unless  frozen)  deteriorates  very  rapidly  and  so,  must 
be  eaten  near  the  place  of  production. 

STUFFING  FOR  FOWLS 

3       cups  of  cornbread  crumbs,  %   cup  fat  from  the  fowl, 

1       cup  Liberty  bread  crumbs,  2       tsp.  sage — enough  stock  or 

1       onion  minced,  milk  to  mix  to  the  right 

1  tbsp.  chopped  parsley,  consistency. 
Vz   cup  chopped  celery, 

Melt  or  fry  out  fat  to  mix  with  the  crumbs,  add  seasoning  and 
liquid  to  bring  to  the  right  consistency. 

POTATO     STUFFING 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes,      3       tbsp.  fat  from  fowl, 
1^4  cups  bread  crumbs,  egg, 

1       tsp.  sage,  l1/^  tsp.  salt. 

1       chopped  onion, 

Clean  and  stuff  fowl,  place  in  roasting  pan  in  moderate  oven. 
Bake  until  tender  and  a  knife  inserted  at  the  joint  will  show  that 
it  may  be  easily  separated.  For  a  tougher  fowl,  place  in  tireless 
cooker  4  hours  or  over  night,  then  stuff  and  brown  in  oven. 

ROAST  CHICKEN  OR  OTHER  FOWL 

Dress,  clean,  stuff  and  truss  a  fowl,  lay  on  back  on  rack  of 
roasting  pan.  Rub  breast  well  with  fat  (salt  pork  in  strips  may 
be  used)  after  the  war,  put  into  oven  until  it  begins  to  brown, 
lower  temperature  and  cook  until  tender,  about  3  or  4  hours. 

SAUTED  FRIED  CHICKEN 

Cut  up  young  chicken,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with 
flour,  brown  on  both  sides  in  generous  quantity  of  vegetable  fat, 
add  a  bit  of  water,  cover  tightly  and  steam  30  minutes. 

MARYLAND  CHICKEN 

Dress,  clean,  and  cut  up  fowl,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in 


Meat  Savers  67 

egg  and  fine  bread  crumbs,  place  in  well-oiled  roaster  and  bake 
until  tender  in  hot  oven;  baste  after  first  5  minutes  with  melted  fat 
or  cream.  Prepare  either  brown  or  cream  sauce  with  dripping  in 
pan  and  serve  with  chicken. 


JELLIED   CHICKEN 

1  chicken  cooked  until  tender,       Olives  or  pickles, 

4  hard  cooked  eggs,  Celery  or  celery  salt, 

2  tbsp.   gelatine,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Reduce  the  liquor  in  which  the  chicken  was  cooked  to  1  pint, 
add  the  diced  or  minced  chicken,  sliced  eggs,  the  celery  salt  and 
pepper  and  pickles  and  olives,  add  the  gelatine  soaked  in  */&  cup  of 
cold  water  and  dissolved  over  hot  water.  Put  into  wet  molds  and 
chill  thoroughly.  The  jelly  and  the  food  may  be  added  one  layer 
at  a  time,  arranging  the  food  in  a  design  if  desired. 

CHICKEN  PIE 

Dress,  clean  and  cut  up  a  plump  fowl,  put  in  a  stew  pan  with 
one  onion,  salt  and  pepper,  add  boiling  water  to  cover.  Let  simmer 
until  done,  remove  the  chicken,  strain  the  stock,  skim  off  the  fat 
and  thicken  with  a  paste  of  flour  and  water.  Invert  a  small  cup 
in  the  center  of  baking  dish,  dispose  the  chicken  about  it  after 
having  removed  some  of  the  larger  bones.  Add  bits  of  butter 
and  the  thickened  gravy.  Cover  with  a  baking  powder  biscuit 
crust  %  inch  thick  in  which  incisions  have  been  made  to  allow  the 
escape  of  steam.  Bake  until  the  crust  is  well  done  and  nicely 
browned. 

CHICKEN  AND  CORN  MEAL   CROQUETTES 

1  cup  white  corn  meal  mush,         Salt  and  pepper, 

1  cup  chopped  chicken,  Few  drops  of  onion  juice. 

1  egg, 

Combine  the  ingredients  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  fat. 
White  corn  meal  may  be  combined  very  satisfactorily  with  other 
kinds  of  cold  meat  to  make  croquettes.  In  general,  corn  meal 
croquettes  need  not  be  egged  and  crumbed  like  ordinary  cro- 
quettes, for  the  hardening  of  the  corn  meal  on  the  surface  of  the 
mixture  forms  the  necessary  crust.  This  serves  three  people. 

Farmers'  Bulletin   565. 


68  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

Meat  Sparers 

USE    SAVORY    STEWS    AND    MEAT    PIES 

Do  you  know  how  good  they  are?  They  may  be  so  varied  that 
you  can  have  a  different  one  every  day  in  the  week,  and  all  of 
them  delicious.  It  needs  only  a  small  piece  of  meat  to  give  flavor 
to  a  hearty  dish. 

Don't  think  that  you  must  eat  a  lot  of  meat  to  be  strong.  Meat 
is  good  to  help  build  up  the  body,  but  so  are  many  other  foods. 

In  these  dishes,  part  of  your  building  material  comes  from  the 
more  expensive  meat  and  part  from  the  cheaper  peas,  beans,  hom- 
iny and  barley.  The  little  meat  with  the  vegetables  and  cereals 
will  give  your  body  what  it  needs. 

U.    S.   Food   Administration. 

TAMALE   PIE 

Another  good  way  to  use  a  little  meat.  Have  you  ever  used 
rice,  corn  meal  mush,  or  hominy  for  a  crust  ?  This  is  less  work 
than  a  pastry  crust  and  saves  wheat. 

4  cups  cooked  corn  meal,  rice,  %   tsp.  pepper, 

or  hominy,  1       tbsp.  fat, 

1  onion,  1       pound   raw   meat  or   left 

2  cups  tomato,  over  meat  cut  up  small. 

Melt  the  fat,  add  the  sliced  onion,  and,  if  raw  meat  is  used,  add 
it,  and  place  over  fire  until  red  color  disappears.  Add  the  tomato 
and  seasoning.  If  cooked  meat  is  used,  add  it  with  the  tomato 
and  seasoning  after  the  onion  is  browned,  and  heat  through. 
Grease  a  baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  the  cereal,  add  the  meat 
and  gravy,  and  cover  with  the  cereal,  dotted  with  fat.  Bake  for 
half  hour. 

SHEPHERD'S   PIE 

This  is  the  name  of  a  meat  pie  with  a  mashed  potato  crust 
browned  in  the  oven. 


Meat  Savers  69 

HOT  POT  OF  MUTTON  AND  BARLEY 

1  pound  mutton,  3       onions, 

V2  cup  pearled  barley,  Celery  tops  or  other  seasoning 

1  tbsp.  salt,  herbs. 
4  potatoes, 

Cut  the  mutton  in  small  pieces,  and  brown  with  the  onion  in 
fat  cut  from  meat.  This  will  help  the  meat  tender  and  improves 
the  flavor.  Pour  this  into  a  covered  sauce  pan.  Add  2  quarts 
water  and  the  barley.  Simmer  for  l1/^  hours.  Then  add  the 
potatoes  cut  in  quarters,  seasoning,  and  cook  one-half  hour  longer. 

SCRAPPLE 

2  Ibs.   (meat)   pork,  game,  poultry,  etc., 
%  Ib.  liver   (beef  or  pork). 

Cook  together  till  very  tender,  remove  from  liquor  and  grind. 
To  liquor  add  enough  water  to  make  2  quarts,  make  corn  meal 
mush  with  those  2  quarts,  using  about  2  cups  of  meal  (must  be 
rather  thick).  When  done,  add  ground  meat,  salt,  pepper,  sage, 
allspice  to  taste.  Pour  into  greased  mold.  In  frying  be  sure  to 
have  pan  thoroughly  heated.  Slice  pieces  from  the  mold  and  fry. 

Mrs.  F.  W.  Shipley. 

SPAGHETTI  A  L'lTALIENNE 

An  excellent  dish  containing  all  the  food  elements  necessary  for 
substantial  meal  may  be  varied.  Use  left  over  gravy,  bits  of  meat 
of  any  kind,  rice  or  vegetables,  always  using  common  sense  (the 
best  ingredients)  in  cooking. 

1       cup  grated  cheese,  1       tsp.  salt, 
%  can  tomatoes,  y2  tsp.   pepper, 

large  onion,  14  Ib.  ground  beef, 

tbsp.  Mazola  or  veg.  oil,  1       cup  hot  water  or  milk, 

%  bay  leaf,  Bit  of  parsley. 

Cook  spaghetti  30  minutes,  cut  onion  fine,  fry  in  the  oil  till 
golden  brown,  add  tomatoes  and  all  other  ingredients  except 
cheese.  Let  simmer  slowly  for  30  minutes  or  while  spaghetti  is 
cooking;  have  baking  dish  ready.  Place  alternate  portions  of  spa- 
ghetti, sauce  and  cheese,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  15 
minutes. 


70  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

SPAGHETTI,   CHEESE  AND   MUSHROOMS 

1  box  spaghetti,  Salt,  pepper  to  season  highly, 
1  can  tomatoes,  %  lb.   cheese, 

1  can  mushrooms,  1       egg, 

1  small  onion,  Paprika. 
3  tbsp.    butter, 

Boil  spaghetti  %  of  an  hour,  cut  onion  and  brown  in  1  table- 
spoonful  butter,  cut  mushrooms  into  pieces  or  purchase  the  broken 
mushrooms,  which  are  cheaper.  Beat  egg  well  and  mix  all  in- 
gredients, turn  into  two  baking  dishes  and  bake  until  mixture  be- 
comes rather  thick  (about  l%-2  hours).  This  makes  an  amount 
sufficient  for  several  meals,  but  it  keeps  well  and  gets  better  'as  it 
is  reheated. 

Elizabeth  Mount  Walker, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  University  City. 

POTATOES  AU  GRATIN 

Cream  sauce  No.  2   (butter  sub.    Potatoes   sliced    (raw), 
used),  Cheese   (grated). 

Put  ingredients  into  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  bread 
or  cracker  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  30  minutes.  For  six  people. 

CASSEROLE  OF  RICE  AND  MEAT 

1  cup  cooked  rice,  */£   cup  crumbs, 

2  cups  cooked  meat,  1       tsp.  lemon  juice, 
Spk.  cayenne,                                       1       egg, 

i/i   tsp.   celery   salt,  1       tsp.   salt, 

Few  drops  onion  juice,  %   tsp.  pepper, 

1  tsp.  chopped  green  peppers,       ^   cup  tomato  juice. 

Chop  the  meat  fine  and  add  the  other  ingredients,  except  the 
rice,  mixing  well.  Line  a  casserole  or  individual  ramekin  with 
rice.  Add  meat  mixture.  Bake  20  minutes,  serve  hot  with  to- 
mato sauce.  This  may  be  steamed  in  a  mold  30  to  45  minutes 
and  turned  onto  a  platter  to  serve. 

JELLIED  MEAT  LOAF 

2  cups  cooked  meat,  2       cloves, 

1  cup  stock,  V2  tsp.  celery  salt, 

1  tbsp.  catsup,  Spk.  salt, 

1  bay  leaf,  Spk.  pepper. 

Add  seasonings  to  stock  and  bring  to  boiling  point,  swell  gelatine 


Meat  Savers  71 

in  cold  water,  and  dissolve  in  hot  stock.     Strain,   add  meat  and 
mold,  serve  garnished  with  hard  cooked  eggs. 

STUFFED  MUSHROOMS  A  LA  BRADFORD 

Select  a  dozen  large  mushrooms,  peel  them  and  remove  the 
stems.  Make  a  forcemeat  from  the  following  ingredients:  Use 
the  mushroom  stems  and  three  whole  mushrooms.  Chop  fine  and 
saute  in  butter  for  three  minutes.  Add  one-half  cup  of  bread 
crumbs  which  have  been  moistened  with  chicken  stock.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  1  tbsp.  of  tomato  catsup.  Fill  the  large 
mushrooms  with  this  mixture.  Crumb,  and  bake  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Serve  on  toast  surrounded  by  a  brown  sauce,  flavored 
with  sherry. 

BEEF  STEW 

1  Ib.  beef,  *A  peck  green  peas  or  1  can, 

4  potatoes,  1       cup  carrots  cut  up  small. 

1  tsp.  salt, 

Cut  meat  in  small  pieces  and  brown  in  the  fat  from  the  meat. 
Simmer  in  2  quarts  of  water  for  1  hour.  Add  the  peas  and  car- 
rots and  cook  for  one-half  hour,  then  add  the  potatoes.  If  canned 
peas  are  used  add  them  10  minutes  before  serving.  Serve  when 
potatoes  are  done. 

Variations. — 1.  The  meat. — This  may  be  any  kind  and  more 
or  less  than  a  pound  may  be  used.  Use  the  cheap  cuts,  the  flank, 
rump,  neck  or  brisket.  The  long,  slow  cooking  makes  them 
tender;  game  and  poultry  are  good. 

2.  Potatoes   and  barley  may  be   used   or  barley  alone   or  rice, 
hominy  or  macaroni. 

3.  Vegetables — carrots,   turnips,   onions,  peas,  beans,   cabbage, 
tomatoes  are  good  canned  or  fresh.     Use  one  or  more  of  these  as 
you  wish. 

4.  Parsley,  celery  tops,  onion  tops,  seasoning  herbs  or  chopped 
sweet  peppers  add  to  the  flavor. 

5.  Many  left-overs  may  be  used,  not  only  meat  and  vegetables, 
but  rice  or  hominy. 

U.    S.    Food   Administration. 

The  fireless  cooker  may  well  be  used,  the  meat  and  the  vege- 
tables being  put  in  at  the  same  time.  Left-overs  or  canned  vege- 
tables need  only  to  be  heated  through.  Add  them  15  minutes  be- 
fore serving. 


72  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

SWEETBREADS    EN    CREME 

Put  sweetbreads  in  bowl,  cover  with  cold  water,  let  stand  an 
hour,  drain,  remove  the  fat  and  membranes.  Cook  in  boiling 
acidulated  water  20  minutes,  allowing  Vz  tsp.  each  of  salt  and 
vinegar  to  a  pair  of  sweetbreads,  then  drain  again  and  plunge 
into  cold  water.  Cut  parboiled  sweetbreads  in  ^-inch  cubes,  to 
1/3  cup  cubes  add  1A  cup  white  sauce. 

BROILED   SWEETBREADS 

After  parboiling  as  above,  split  crosswise.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  broil  eight  minutes.  Serve  with  lemon,  butter 
made  by  creaming  4  tbsp.  oil,  and  adding  slowly  2  tbsp.  of  lemon. 

STUFFED    HEART 

Remove  veins  and  arteries.  Wash  carefully,  simmer  for  1 
hour.  Stuff,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  (1  tbsp.  of  salt  to  1 
pound;  pepper  to  taste),  dredge  with  flour,  bake  in  stock  in  which 
it  was  stewed,  thicken  liquid  with  corn  starch  to  the  thickness 
of  sauce  for  creamed  dishes,  and  serve  hot. 

BOILED  TONGUE 

1  tongue,  1       tbsp.  vinegar, 

4  cloves,  1       tbsp.  salt, 

4  pepper   corns,  %  tsp.  pepper. 

Wipe  the  tongue  and  place  in  boiling  water  to  which  the  sea- 
soning has  been  added.  Boil  for  10  minutes,  then  draw  to  a 
cooler  part  of  the  range  and  simmer  until  tender,  %  hours,  par- 
tially cool  in  the  liquid;  take  the  tongue  from  the  water  and 
remove  the  skin  and  roots.  If  pickled  tongue  is  used  and  is  very 
salty,  it  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  several  hours  or  over 
night  before  cooking. 

ASPEC   JELLY 

2       cups  white  or  brown  stock,      Lemon  juice, 
1       tbsp.  gelatine,  Salt, 

1/2  cup  cold  water,  Pepper, 

Bay  leaf,  Celery  salt. 

Worcestershire   sauce, 

(If  the  stock  does  not  form  a  soft  jelly  itself  when  cold,  use 
ll/2  tbsp.  of  gelatine.) 

Soak   gelatine    in   cold   water   and   dissolve    over   boiling   water. 


Meat  Savers  73 

Put  seasoning  to  taste  into  stock  and  heat  together,  clarify,  stir 
in  dissolved  gelatine  and  strain.  Mold  and  decorate  with  meat  and 
vegetables  as  desired. 

TONGUE  IN  ASPEC 

1       cup  diced  tongue,  1       hard  cooked  egg  and  pi- 

ll/2  cups  liquid  aspec  jelly,  mento     or    parsley    for 

'i  decoration. 

Prepare  according  to  directions  for  decorating  gelatine  molds, 
add  tongue.  Let  stand  until  firm  and  molded. 

BRAISED   TONGUE 

1       beef  tongue,       *  l/$  cup  onion,   diced, 

*/3  cup  carrots,  diced,  %   cup  celery,   diced. 

1       sprig  parsley, 

Place  tongue  in  fireless  cooker  vessel  and  heat  to  boiling.  Place 
in  fireless  cooker  with  hot  plate.  Leave  two  to  three  hours.  Take 
out  and  remove  skin  and  roots.  Place  back  in  fireless  cooker 
pan  and  surround  with  vegetables.  Add  four  cups  of  sauce  made 
according  to  the  next  recipe.  Cover  closely,  reheat  stone  and  re- 
turn to  fireless  cooker.  Bake  two  to  three  hours  longer. 

SAUCE  FOR  BRAISED  TONGUE 

Melt   one-fourth   cup    oleo,   add   one-fourth   cup    corn    flour   and 
stir  together  until  well  browned.     Add  gradually  four  cups  of  hot 
water  in  which  the  tongue  was  cooked.     Season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce.     One  and  one-half  cups 
strained  tomatoes  may  be  substituted  for  part  of  the  water. 

SAUTED  LIVER 

Cut  liver  in  slices  %  inch  thick  and  cover  with  boiling  water, 
let  stand  5  minutes  to  draw  out  the  blood,  drain,  wipe  and  re- 
move outer  skin  and  veins,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge 
with  flour  and  saute  in  bacon  fat  (if  you  have  it). 

Note:  Make  gravies  to  conserve  food  values  of  the  extractives 
and  fats  from  meats. 

Note:  Nourishing  soups  can  be  made  from  scraps  of  meat 
from  vegetables  that  are  usually  thrown  away. 


74  "Win  the  War"  Cook  Book 

Soups  That  Save 

An  Overlooked  Economy 

Many  housekeepers  throw  away  the  water  in  which  vegetables 
have  been  boiled,  unmindful  of  the  fact  that  somewhat  less 
than  a  third  of  the  contained  mineral  matter  and  about  the  same 
amount  of  starchy  and  protein  substances  are  dissolved  out  into 
this  water,  which  may  well  be  utilized  for  soup.  For  instance,  the 
water  in  which  cabbage  has  been  cooked  requires  only  the  addition 
of  a  little  milk,  butter  and  thickening  to  furnish  an  agreeable 
thin  soup. 

• 

In  this  connection  it  may  be  noted  that  much  nutriment  is  also 
lost  in  the  water  in  which  vegetables  are  soaked  in  order  to  re- 
store them  to  freshness,  an  excellent  reason  why  wilted  products 
should  not  be  bought,  and  for  the  same  reason  vegetables  should 
be  covered  with  boiling  water,  not  tepid,  and  the  cooking  started 
without  delay.  While  such  vegetables  are  thought  to  taste  better 
if  cooked  in  a  large  amount  of  water,  they  should  be  just  scalded  or 
parboiled,  this  water  thrown  away,  and  the  cooking  concluded  in  a 
small  quantity  of  water  or  by  steaming. 

Since  one  of  the  great  ends  of  cooking  is  the  production  of 
flavor,  we  should  place  high  in  our  list  those  cheapest  of  all 
flavors  which  result  from  browning.  Toasted  bread  or  croutons  is 
a  favorite  addition  to  soups,  but  many  housekeepers  do  not  seem 
to  know  that  toasting  or  parching  gives  a  new  flavor  to  rice,  or  if 
applied  to  the  highly  flavored  vegetables  used  to  season  soups,  re- 
sults in  new  and  delicious  flavoring  substances  as  carmelized  onion, 
carrot,  celery,  green  pepper,  etc. 

Cream  soups  are  in  place  only  at  luncheon  or  at  supper  because 
they  are  so  heavy  that  they  partly  satisfy  the  appetite.  To  this 
end  they  should  be  recognized  as  having  actual  food  value,  while 
the  clear  soup  that  appears  at  dinner  is  used  more  as  a  stimulant 
to  the  appetite.  A  cream  soup  is  always  bland  in  taste  and  should 
be  followed  by  some  strong  flavored  dish  of  firm  texture.  Creamed 
chicken  is  too  similar  to  harmonize  with  cream  soup;  croquettes  or 
salads  would  give  a  better  effect.  Cream  soups  are  in  place  at 
dinners  if  used  as  a  meat  substitute. 


Meat  Savers  75 

SOUP  MADE  FROM  LEFT-OVERS 

Put  bones  and  pea  pods  in  water  and  boil  until  all  of  the  flavor 
has  come  out  into  the  water,  remove  bones  and  water.  Put 
through  meat  grinder  any  small  amount  of  left  over  food  which 
does  not  contain  bananas  or  is  very  sweet.  Add  to  the  above 
stock,  cook  thoroughly,  strain  and  season. 

CORRECT  PROPORTIONS  FOR  A  WHITE  SAUCE  FOR 

SOUPS 

1  tbsp.  fat,  1  tbsp.   flour. 

1  cup  milk  or  soup  stock, 

Soups  can  be  thickened  with  stale  bread,  which  makes  it  possible 
to  utilize  still  another  food,  sometimes  thrown  away.  Half  a  slice 
of  bread,  or  about  1A  ounce  of  bread,  is  enough  to  thicken  one  cup 
of  soup. 

THE  FOLLOWING  IS  A  TYPICAL  RECIPE 

1  head   lettuce,  1  large  slice  stale  bread, 

1  small  sliced  onion,  Veg.  fat  if  desired, 

2  qts.  skim  milk,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Put  the  lettuce  and  onion  through  the  meat  chopper  with  the 
bread  to  save  the  juice.  Put  into  a  double  boiler  with  the  skim 
milk  and  cook  until  the  lettuce  is  soft.  Add  fat  (if  desired)  and 
the  salt  and  pepper. 

U.  S.  Bulletin  871. 

CREAM  OF  CHEESE  SOUP 

Put  three  pints  of  milk  into  a  sauce  pan,  add  ^A  pound  of  grated 
cheese,  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  to  taste.  Add  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  flour  to  the  cheese  mixture  and  stir  until  smooth  and 
thick.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  a  little  of  the  soup  mix- 
ture and  then  add  the  rest  of  the  soup.  A  thin  slice  of  green 
pepper  may  be  added  to  each  plate. 

PEANUT  SOUP 

In  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler  put  1A  cup  ground  peanuts, 
*A  cup  dried  bread  crumbs  or  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  2%  cups  skim 
milk,  or  l^A  cups  vegetable  soup  stock  and  11A  cups  skim  milk. 
Cook  over  hot  water  one-half  hour,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
onion  juice  if  wished.  Always  beat  a  cream  soup  well  before  serv- 
ing. 


76  "Win  the   War"  Cook  Book 

MEATLESS  VEGETABLE  SOUP 
Fresh  Vegetables 

y$  cup  carrots,  Vz  onion, 

y3  cup  turnips,  qt.  water, 

Vz  cup  celery,  4       tbsp.  fat, 

ll/2   cups  potatoes,  or   %    cup          V2  tsp.    finely    chopped    parsley, 

cereal,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Wash  and  cut  up  into  small  pieces,  without  peeling,  carrots, 
turnips,  celery  and  potatoes.  Measure.  Place  fat  in  sauce  pan, 
add  carrots,  turnips,  celery  and  onion;  cook  ten  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  potatoes  (or  cereal)  and  water,  boil  gently  until 
vegetables  are  very  tender.  Beat  with  fork  or  spoon  to  break 
vegetables.  Add  parsley  and  season. 

1.— LENTIL  SOUP 

1  cup   lentils,  2  tbsp.  cornstarch, 

2  pts.    milk,  Seasoning  of  salt, 
1  tbsp.  of  butter,                              Pepper. 

Wash  the  lentils,  cover  them  with  cold  water  and  soak  over 
night.  Bring  them  to  boiling  point  and  boil  until  they  mash 
easily.  Drain  and  put  them  into  a  sauce  pan.  Add  gradually  the 
milk,  butter,  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  the  cornstarch 
moistened  with  half  a  cup  of  water  or  milk.  Stir  till  it  boils  up, 
when  it  is  ready  for  serving. 

2.— LENTIL   SOUP 

Soak  the  dry  lentils  over  night,  pour  off  water,  put  on  stove  with 
enough  water  or  milk  to  make  a  desired  quantity  of  soup.  When 
nearly  done  add  butter  in  which  a  little  flour  has  been  browned, 
and  let  it  all  boil  about  10  minutes.  Season  to  taste  and  serve 
with  small  cubes  of  roasted  stale  bread. 

Miss   Ella   D.   Rode, 
•Domestic  Science  Instructor,  Patrick  Henry  School. 

PEA  SOUP 

y2  lb.  split  peas,  %  tbsp.  butter  or  dripping, 

1       onion,  A  little  dried  mint, 

1       stack  celery,  1  qt.   stock, 

1       small  carrot,  Seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper, 

1       small  turnip,  3  thin  slices  of  bacon. 

Soak  the  peas  in  cold  water  for  several  hours;  melt  the  butter 
or  drippings  in  a  sauce  pan,  drain  the  peas  and  put  them  into  the 


Meat  Savers  77 

pan  with  the  onion  and  the  vegetables  cut  into  small  pieces;  stir 
over  the  fire  for  5  minutes,  taking  care  that  they  do  not  brown, 
then  add  the  stock,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  up 
gently  and  skim  well;  let  it  simmer  slowly  until  the  peas  are  ten- 
der, rub  the  soup  through  a  sieve  and  add  the  bacon,  previously 
fried  and  cut  into  small  dice.  Reheat,  add  the  mint  and  serve. 

SOY    BEAN    SOUP 

1  cup  cooked  soy  beans,  2       tbsp.    butter    or   butter    sub., 

rubbed  through  a  sieve,  1       chopped  onion, 

1  qt.  water,  M;   cup  tomato  catsup. 

4  tbsp.  flour, 

Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  onion.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  add 
the  water.  When  thickened  add  the  bean  pulp.  If  the  catsup  is 
used  it  may  be  added  just  before  serving. 

FOR  CREAMED  SOUP  SEE  WHITE  SAUCE 
SCOTCH  SOUP 

With  bread  and  dessert  it  is  enough  for  lunch  or  supper. 

2%  qts.  water,  2  onions,  sliced, 

ll/2  cups  rolled  oats,  2  tbsp.   flour, 

5  potatoes   cut   in   small  2  tbsp.  fat. 

pieces, 

Boil  the  water  and  add  the  oatmeal,  potatoes,  onion,  y2  table- 
spoonful  salt  and  V2  teaspoonful  pepper.  Cook  for  one-half  hour. 
Brown  flour  with  the  fat  (vegetable  oil)  and  add  to  the  soup. 
Cook  until  thick.  One  cup  of  tomato  adds  to  the  flavor.  Serves 
five  people. 

U.   S.   Food  Administration. 

LIMA  BEAN  CHOWDER 

%  lb.   salt  pork,  1  pt.  or  y2  Ib.  green  shelled  lima 

1  onion,  beans, 

1  green   pepper,  4  small  potatoes, 

3  cups   skim  milk,  Salt   and   pepper. 

Put  the  pork,  onion  and  pepper  through  the  grinder.  Cook 
carefully  for  2  or  3  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  burn;  add  either 
the  beans  or  the  potatoes  with  water  enough  to  cover  and  cook 
until  the  vegetables  are  soft.  Cook  the  other  vegetables  separately 
and  when  soft  add  with  the  milk  to  the  other  mixture.  Reheat 
and  season. 


78  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

The  protein  in  the  above  dish  is  equal  to  that  in  about  three- 
fourths  pound  of  beef  of  average  composition.  Any  vegetables 
may  be  used  in  place  of  the  beans. 

Farmers'   Bulletin   871. 

CREAM  OF  VEGETABLE  SOUPS 

Cream  vegetable  soups  are  nutritious  and  are  a  palatable  dish 
to  serve  for  luncheon  or  supper.  Great  care  should  be  used  in 
combining  acid  vegetables,  such  as  tomatoes  with  milk,  as  the  milk 
may  curdle  and  spoil  the  texture  of  the  dish.  A  very  small  quan- 
tity of  soda  added  to  the  puree  (strained  vegetable  pulp)  will 
neutralize  the  acid,  and  then  it  may  be  added  to  the  milk. 
General  Directions. 

Cook  vegetables  until  soft,  strain  the  vegetables  and  keep  the 
stock  in  which  they  are  cooked.  Make  a  thin  white  sauce,  using 
1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  tablespoonful  flour,  y2  teaspoonful  salt 
and  %  teaspoonful  pepper  to  1  cup  liquid  (milk  or  stock  or  part 
of  each),  add  the  strained  vegetable  (puree)  to  the  white  sauce, 
then  reheat  and  serve  at  once.  Onion  or  other  seasoning  vege- 
tables may  be  used. 

TOMATO  BISQUE 

Equal  quantities  of  thin  white  sauce  and  tomato  puree. 

FISH  CHOWDER 

A  3-lb.  fish,  1  qt.   sliced   potatoes, 

4  tbsp.  drippings,  3  cups  hot  milk. 

1  medium  onion  chopped  fine, 

Skin  and  bone  the  fish,  and  cut  into  inch  cubes.  Cover  the  bone 
and  trimmings  with  cold  water  and  let  simmer  for  one-half  hour. 
Cook  the  onion  in  the  fat  for  5  minutes,  then  pour  into  a  stew 
pan.  Parboil  the  sliced  potatoes  for  5  minutes,  then  drain  and  add 
layers  of  fish  and  potatoes  to  the  fat  and  onion  in  the  stew  pan. 
Season  each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper.  Strain  the  liquor  in 
which  the  fish  bones  have  been  cooking  over  all  and  cook  about  20 
minutes  until  fish  and  potatoes  are  tender.  Then  add  the  scalded 
milk.  If  desired  thicker,  sprinkle  a  little  corn  meal  between  each 
layer  of  fish  and  potatoes. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 


Meat  Savers  79 

OYSTER  SOUP 

Heat  the  strained  liquor  from  one  quart  of  oysters.  In  another 
vessel  heat  one  quart  of  milk,  ^  cup  butter  substitute,  a  dash  of 
cayenne,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  two  powdered  crackers, 
and  when  scalding  hot  put  milk  and  oyster  liquor  together.  Add 
oysters  and  let  them  come  to  a  boil. 

Helen  Labagh  Johnson. 

Note:  Celery  leaves  may  be  dried  and  used  in  soups.  Use 
water  in  which  vegetables  have  been  cooked  for  soup  and  gravies, 
as  it  contains  nutritive  value.  Have  a  soup  pot;  add  bones  from 
steak,  roast  pork,  fowls,  etc.,  after  bones  have  been  scalded.  Bones 
are  valuable  as  fertilizer,  containing  the  elements  Calcium  and 
Phosphorus. 


VEGETABLES 

It  may  be  said  in  general  that  no  meat  or  vegetable  should  be 
cooked  longer  than  is  necessary  to  soften  the  connective  tissue  or 
the  cellulose.  Sometimes  only  a  very  short  time  is  needed  to  de- 
velop flavor,  while  long  cooking  may  wholly  change  this  flavor. 
Shredded  cabbage,  for  instance,  cooked  a  half  hour,  has  become 
tender,  and  has  a  good  color  and  flavor;  if  the  cooking  is  con- 
tinued for  three  hours,  as  is  the  custom  in  the  German  kitchen,  its 
color  darkens  and  its  flavor  has  become  at  least  to  the  American 
palate  strong  and  disagreeable.  The  importance  of  not  over-cook- 
ing applies  to  all  tender  succulent  young  growths,  as  peas,  beans, 
asparagus,  spinach.  If,  when  cooked,  their  serving  is  unavoid- 
ably delayed  they  should  be  closely  covered  and  kept  in  a  water 
bath;  while  starchy  vegetables,  as  rice  and  potatoes,  should  be 
covered  under  the  lid  with  a  cloth  which  will  absorb  the  steam 
that  might  otherwise  fall  back  to  make  the  vegetables  sodden. 


PLANNING  VEGETABLES  FOR  A  MEAL 

In  planning  the  main  portion  one  rule  is  invalid:  potatoes,  rice 
and  spaghetti  should  never  appear  in  the  same  meal,  because  they 
are  too  similar.  When  two  vegetables  are  to  be  served,  one  should 
be  green,  like  asparagus  or  string  beans,  and  one  of  more  plebeian 
character,  like  onions  or  beets. 


80  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

METHODS   OF   COOKING   VEGETABLES 

TO  BOIL 

Wash,  pare,  peel  or  scrape  the  vegetables,  cut  into  pieces  of  con- 
venient size,  cover  with  boiling  salted  water,  using  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt  to  1  pint  of  water.  Cook  until  tender,  drain  and  dry. 

Great  loss  of  food  substance  in  the  water  in  which  vegetables 
are  cooked,  including  starch,  protein  and  mineral  salts,  all  of 
which  are  valuable  in  the  diet.  The  water  in  which  vegetables 
have  been  boiled  should  be  used  for  soups,  sauces,  etc. 

2.  Steaming — Better   method    than   boiling   because    the    loss   of 
food  material  is  much  less. 

3.  Baking — Best  method  for  vegetables  suitable  for  baking,  as 
there  is  no  loss  of  food  material. 

4.  Sauteing — Recommended  for  variety. 

5.  Scalloping — Recommended  for  variety. 

6.  Frying  in  deep  fat — not  recommended  on  account  of  scarcity 
of  fat. 

GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  UNDERLYING  BOILING 

VEGETABLES 

1.  Cook  all  vegetables  uncovered   after  they  reach  the  boiling 
point. 

a.  To  retain  color.. 

b.  To  lessen  odor  of  cooking. 

c.  To  allow  undesirable  compounds  to  escape  in  steam. 

2.  Cook  all  fresh  vegetables  in  boiling  salted  water. 

ROOTS,  LEAVES,  STALKS,  ETC. 

Carrots — Contain  no  true  starch,  2.5  per  cent  of  pectose 
gum,  etc.,  4.5  per  cent  sugar,  0.5  per  cent  albuminoids  and  89  per 
cent  water.  When  carrots  are  boiled  they  lose  over  90  per  cent  of 
their  nutrient  material.  This  fact  suggests  that  to  retain  any 
food  value  at  all,  carrots  should  be  cooked  in  a  soup  or  stew. 

Parsnips — 3.5  per  cent  of  starch,  5  per  cent  of  sugar,  3.7  per 
cent  of  gum  pectose,  1.5  per  cent  fat,  1.2  per  cent  of  albuminoids 
and  only  82  per  cent  of  water.  It  loses  a  large  amount  of  nutrient 
material  in  boiling. 

Turnips — Contain  92.8  per  cent  of  water,  3  per  cent  of  pectose 
and  extractives.  They  contain  more  water  than  milk.  They  are 
of  little  value  except  for  their  flavor  and  to  furnish  variety  to 
the  bill  of  fare. 


Meat  Savers  81 

Beets — Are  a  more  important  food  than  any  of  those  just  men- 
tioned, for  the  ordinary  garden  beet  has  been  cultivated  so  that 
it  contains  from  10  to  15  per  cent  of  cane  sugar.  Beets  also  con- 
tain 2.4  per  cent  of  pectose  and  more  cellulose  than  the  other 
roots.  The  addition  of  vinegar  to  boiled  beets  helps  to  soften  the 
cellulose  and  it  is  said  does  not  interfere  with  the  digestion  of  the 
other  carbohydrates.  After  beets  are  boiled  they  contain  only  3 
per  cent  sugar. 

Leaves  and  Stalks — As  celery,  lettuce,  etc.,  though  they  contain 
over  90  per  cent  water,  yet  their  value  should  not  be  overlooked, 
for  the  gluten  and  starch  which  they  contain  are  often  in  such  a 
condition  that  they  can  be  readily  assimilated.  Prominent  among 
foods  of  this  class  should  be  mentioned  the  cabbage,  cauliflower 
and  kale. 

Cabbage — Contains  5.8  per  cent  of  carbohydrates,  1.8  per  cent 
of  nitrogenous  matter  and  1.3  per  cent  of  mineral  matter,  but 
when  cooked  the  per  cent  of  water  is  increased  to  94.4  per  cent 
and  other  constituents  decrease  in  like  proportion.  (In  general, 
it  may  be  said  that  the  effect  of  cooking  is  greatly  diminished  in 
the  amount  of  nutrients  in  this  class  of  foods.) 

CREAMED  VEGETABLES 

Use  -potatoes,  turnips,  celery,  onion,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  beets, 
parsnips,  salsify,  brussels,  sprouts,  carrots,  etc. 

Make  a  white  sauce,  using  equal  portions  fat  and  flour  or  two 
tablespoonfuls  to  one  cup  hot  milk,  melt  fat,  stir  flour  into  it  until 
it  makes  a  smooth  paste,  add  hot  milk  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens. 

One-half  as  much  cornstarch  may  be  used  for  thickening  in- 
stead of  flour. 

Put  a  layer  of  vegetables  and  a  layer  of  cream  sauces  until  the 
baking  of  casserole  is  full.  Cover  top  with  buttered  bread  crumbs 
and  brown  in  oven.  Grated  cheese  may  be  added  between  the 
layers  when  vegetables  which  do  not  have  strong  flavors  are  used. 

VEGETABLE  SOUFFLES 

These  dishes  are  a  good  way  to  combine  eggs  and  vegetables. 
If  made  with  the  green-shelled  legumes  (peas,  beans,  soy  beans  or 
cow-peas)  they  may  be  considered  meat  savers.  Corn  starch  or 


82  "Win  the   War"  Cook  Book 

rice  flour  should  be  used  for  thickening  sauces.     Use  half  as  much 
as  you  would  of  wheat  flour. 

"~1~  A  thick  sauce  made  with  ^4  cup  fat,  */4  cup  flour  and  1  cup 
liquid,  which  may  be  milk  (whole  or  skim),  cream,  meat  stock  or 
the  water  in  which  vegetables  have  been  cooked. 

2.  One  cup  thick  vegetable  pulp  made  by  draining  cooked  vege- 
tables and  then  mashing  them  or  putting  them  through  a  sieve. 

3.  Three  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

4.  Flavoring,  salt,  pepper,  onion  juice  and  any  one  of  the  fol- 
lowing may  be  used:  Very  finely  chopped  parsley,  chives,  or  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  curry  powder.     Mix  the  vegetables,  pulp,  season- 
ing sauce,  and  well-beaten  egg  yolks.     Carefully  fold  in  the  well- 
beaten  egg  whites   of  the   eggs,  put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm.     Serve  immediately. 

The  amount  of  vegetables  in  this  dish  may  be  increased  by 
serving  vegetables  around  the  souffle. 

VEGETABLE  FRITTERS 

Mash  cooked  vegetables,  such  as  salsify,  parsnips,  carrots,  etc., 
season  with  butter  substitute,  salt  and  pepper,  shape  into  small 
flat,  round  cakes,  roll  in  flour  and  saute  in  vegetable  oil  or  sub- 
stitute for  butter. 

SCALLOPED  CORN 

2       cups  or  1  can  corn,  2       tbsp.  fat. 
1       tsp.  salt,  Vz  cup  crumbs, 

1       cup  milk,  1       tbsp.  fat, 

VB  tsp.  pepper,  Speck  salt. 

Mix  the  corn,  milk,  seasonings  and  the  melted  fat. 

Place  in  greased  baking  dish  with  buttered  crumbs  over  top 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

To  prepare  crumbs,  melt  butter  substitute,  stir  the  crumbs  into 
it  and  add  salt. 

SAUTED  CORN 

Cut  boiled  sweet  corn  from  cob  and  saute  in  vegetable  oil  or 
fat. 

SOY  BEAN   FRITTERS 

Soy  bean  meal  may  be  made  into  fritters  and  sauted. 


Meat  Savers  83 

POTATOES 

Eat  More  Potatoes  and  Save  AVheat 

Our  Government  asks  us  to  eat  potatoes  to  save  wheat.  We 
have  large  crops  this  year.  One  small  potato — 3  oz. — contains 
as  much  starch  as  a  slice  of  bread.  (Farmers'  Bulletin  871.) 

The  following  tables  give  comparative  food  value  of  wheat  and 
potato: 

Protein,  2.5% 

Carbohydrates,   18  to  */4  cup    whole    wheat=100     cal- 

20%    (starch)  ories. 

Potato  {  Almost  no  fat  l1^    medium-sized    potatoes^lOO 

|  Ash,  1%  calories. 
[Water,  75  to  79% 

f  Protein,  13.8%  11A   medium-sized  potatoes  equal 
I  Carbohydrates,  71.9%  in  food  value  to 
Wheat<{  Ash,  1%  1A  cup  whole  wheat  (Lab.  Man- 
Water,  11.4%  uel-Rose). 
Fats,  1.1 


* 

Potatoes  in  their  simplest  forms  baked  and  boiled  make  a 
good  dish  for  luncheon  or  dinner.  But  there  are  numerous  ways 
in  which  they  may  be  prepared  which  gives  pleasing  variety. 

A  potato  is  done  when  a  fork  will  pierce  easily. 

POTATOES  AU  GRATIN  (see  Cheese) 

POTATO  BREAD   (see  Breads) 

Potatoes  diced  may  be  used  in  all  meat  stews,  such  as  chicken, 
pork,  rabbit,  mutton,  etc. 

SAUTED  POTATOES  (Raw) 

Peel  and  slice  thin  the  raw  potatoes,  have  in  skillet  hot  l1/^ 
tbsp.  of  fat  Mazola  or  other  vegetable  oil.  Put  in  potatoes,  cover 
tighty,  stir  often  with  thin  knife  or  spatula  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing. Serve  very  hot.  The  left  over  cold  potatoes  may  be  treated 
in  the  same  way,  taking  less  time  to  prepare.  Cold  potatoes  may 
also  be  diced  and  put  into  hot  cream  sauce  with  chopped  parsley. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES 

Slice  potatoes  thin.  A  pretty  effect  is  to  slice  around  and  round 
in  form  of  shavings.  Let  stand  in  very  cold  water  for  %  hour;  a 


84  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

bit  of  alum  added  to  water  will  make  them  firm.  Let  drain,  wipe 
dry  with  soft  towel.  Fry  a  few  at  a  time  in  deep  kettle  of  fat, 
take  up  into  hot  dish  with  wire  basket  or  perforated  skimmer 
when  light  brown.  Serve  hot. 

RICED  POTATOES 

Riced  potatoes  are  very  pleasing;  simply  press  the  mashed  po- 
tatoes through  potato  ricer.  Mashed  potatoes  put  into  pudding 
dish  with  cheese  or  Mazola  smoothed  over  and  browned  in  oven 
are  very  nice. 

FRENCH  FRIED 

Wash,  peel  and  cut  potatoes  into  lengthwise  sections  about 
V2  in.  thick,  dry  between  soft  towel,  fry  a  few  at  a  time  in  deep 
vegetable  oil,  drain  on  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt.  Serve  very  hot 
with  meat  sausage;  especially  nice  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

MASHED  POTATOES 

May  be  delicious  or  impalatable — "why  not  the  former?" 
Pare  potatoes  carefully,  let  stand  for  short  time  in  cold  water, 
drain  and  put  in  stew  kettle  with  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Cook  till  thoroughly  done,  drain,  let  stand  a  moment  uncovered 
on  fire  to  dry.  Mash  thoroughly,  beat  till  creamy  with  a  little 
hot  cream  or  miik  and  salt  and  Mazola  or  other  butter  substitute. 
Serve  hot. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES 

Peel  and  slice  raw  potatoes,  cover  baking  dish  with  vegetable 
fat,  put  in  layer  of  potatoes,  salt,  pepper,  a  little  Mazola  and 
minced  onion  if  liked.  Sprinkle  over  a  little  rice  flour  or  powdered 
arra-root.  Another  layer  of  potatoes,  etc.,  until  the  dish  is  filled. 
Pour  over  a  good  thin  cream  sauce  and  bake  SA  hour. 

POTATOES  SAUTED 

Boil,  skin,  brown  in  fat,  sprinkle  with  salt. 

STUFFED  POTATOES 

6       potatoes,  l/z  cup  milk, 

%  tsp.   salt,  x/4   lb.  grated  cheese, 

%  tsp.  pepper,  1       egg,  if  desired. 

Select    medium-sized    potatoes.      Wash   well,    dry,    bake    in   hot 
oven  about  %  hour  or  until  soft.     Remove  from  oven  and  at  once 


Meat  Savers  85 

slice  off  top  or  cut  in  half,  but  do  not  otherwise  break  skin. 
Scoop  out  inside  with  spoon,  mash,  add  salt,  pepper,  hot  milk, 
beat  in  grated  cheese  and  egg.  Return  to  shell,  bake  10  minutes. 
Boiled  potatoes  may  be  mashed  and  prepared  same  way  and 
piled  as  a  cone  on  dish  and  baked  10  to  15  minutes. 

Mary  Sherzer. 

SWEET  POTATOES  GEORGIAN  STYLE 

Season  mashocl  boiled  sweet  potatoes  with  butter  substitute, 
salt,  pepper  and  sherry  wine.  Moisten  with  cream  or  milk  and 
beat  5  minutes,  put  in  a  greased  baking  dish,  leaving  a  rough 
surface.  Pour  over  a  syrup  made  of  boiling  two  tablespoons  of 
molasses  and  one  teaspoonful  fat  5  minutes.  Bake  until  deli- 
cately browned. 

Notes:  Eat  skins  of  Irish  and  sweet  potatoes,  as  they  contain 
"growth  determiners"  or  vitamines. 

Boil  potatoes  with  skins  on  them — this  saves  waste. 

Apply  this  note  to  above  recipes.  Vary  recipes  by  always  season- 
ing with  common  sense. 

Mashed  potatoes,  may  be  used  in  place  of  biscuit  crust  in  mak- 
ing meat  pies. 

Sweet  potatoes  may  be  used  in  much  the  same  way  as  white 
potatoes. 

SPINACH 

Use  one-fourth  peck  of  spinach,  remove  roots,  carefully  pick 
over  (discarding  wilted  leaves)  and  wash  under  running  water  to 
free  from  all  grains  of  sand.  Put  in  a  stew  pan,  allow  to  heat 
gradually  and  boil  25  minutes  or  until  tender  in  its  own  juice. 
Drain  thoroughly,  chop  finely,  reheat  and  season  with  3  table- 
spoonfuls  butter  substitute,  salt  and  pepper.  Form  in  pleasing 
shape  on  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  slices  of  hard  cooked  egg. 

CORN  FRITTERS 

1  cup  flour,  2       rounded  tsp.  baking  powder, 
Vz   cup  milk.  1       tsp.  salt, 

2  eggs,  %   tsp.  pepper, 

1       tbsp.  Mazola,  1       cup  grated  or  chopped  corn. 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  pepper  into  bowl,  add  milk, 
well  beaten  eggs,  Mazola  and  grated  corn,  or  if  canned  corn  is 
used  put  it  through  meat  chopper,  and  mix  well  and  fry  in  deep 
hot  vegetable  oil. 


86  "Win   the    War"   Cook  Book 


Milk 

The  world  is  desperately  hard  up  for  butter  and  milk.  For 
small  children  nothing  can  take  the  place  of  milk  and  butter; 
they  die  if  they  don't  get  them.  For  grown  folks  they  are  next 
to  meat. 

Milk  from  the  cow  is  almost  a  complete  food.  Skim  milk  is 
nearly  the  same  in  food  value  as  lean  meat.  One  quart  of  milk 
has  more  fuel  value  than  half  a  pound  of  good  beefsteak,  and 
more  than  eight  eggs.  Milk  contains  vitamines  and  much  lime, 
which  makes  it  a  food  for  growing  children. 

Before  the  war  we  had  a  hard  problem  to  get  milk  enough.  Now 
we  are  sending  ten  times  as  much  condensed  milk  to  Europe  as 
we  did  five  years  ago. 

Our  Allies  have  been  killing  their  dairy  cattle  for  food  to  an 
alarming  extent.  They  had  to  because  they  needed  the  meat 
and  were  short  of  cattle  feed. 

Our  own  dairy  herds  are  less  than  they  were  as  some  have  been 
slaughtered  because  of  the  high  cost  of  feed — and  because  farm 
hands  are  scarce  to  milk  the  cows. 

Milk  is  too  valuable  to  waste.  Give  it  to  the  children  to  drink, 
or  if  you  give  them  skim  milk,  give  plenty  of  butter  to  match  it 
up.  Drink  SKIM  MILK,  use  it  in  cooking. 

If  it  sours  it  is  still  good  for  cooking  or  for  making  cottage 
cheese. 

Don't  let  a  drop  of  milk  be  wasted. 

Until  the  school  age,  milk  may  well  be  the  main  part  of  the 
diet.  Give  children  milk,  which  is  good  for  them,  instead  of 
coffee  and  tea,  which  destroys  their  appetites,  makes  them  nervous 
and  does  not  nourish  them.  If  a  child  refuses  plain  milk,  serve 
the  milk  combined  with  bread  or  cereal,  or  as  milk  soups,  junkets, 
custards,  cocoa,  etc.  It  is  almost  impossible  to  give  any  other 
food  in  place  of  milk  to  a  baby  without  danger  of  harm. 

Mr.  Hoover  has  distinctly  told  us  that  children  must  hav»e 
whole  milk  and  butter;  these  together  with  fresh  fruits  and  vege- 
tables contain  that  newly  discovered  element  necessary  to  bodily 
growth  known  as  vitamines,  and  right  here  let  me  state  that 
the  form  of  fat  most  commonly  used,  lard,  is  entirely  lacking  in 
vitamines.  It  produces  bodily  heat,  but  not  life. 


Meat  Savers  87 

%  Ib.    of  lean  round  of  beef,  Ibs.  fresh  codfish, 

8  eggs,  2       Ibs.  chicken, 

2  Ibs.  of  potatoes,  4       Ibs.  beets, 

6  Ibs.  spinach,  5       Ibs.  turnips, 

7  Ibs.  lettuce,  Ye  Ib.  butter, 

4       Ibs.  cabbage,  Vz  Ib.  wheat  flour, 

2       Ibs.  salt   codfish,  y$  Ib.  cheese. 

MILK  AS  A  LIQUID 

Milk  coagulates  and  becomes  a  solid  in  the  stomach  and  should 
not  be  regarded  as  a  drink  but  as  a  food.  It  should  not  be  swal- 
lowed down  rapidly,  but  sipped  slowly,  as  the  faster  the  milk  is 
swallowed  the  larger  the  curds  in  the  stomach  and  the  harder  to 
digest.  Procure  the  very  best. 

There  are  special  methods  of  varying  milk  in  the  diet.  Taste 
may  be  altered  by  heating  or  adding  seasoning,  spices,  coffee,  co- 
coa, mineral  water. 

SOME  KINDS   OF  MILK 

Whole  Modified 

*Koumiss  *Lactic  acid 

*Buttermilk 

*  These  milks  are  good  in  digestive  disturbances  as  the  lactic 
acid  bacteria  (flavorable  bacteria)  destroy  the  putrif active  bac- 
teria, which  are  harmful  bacteria,  which  produce  a  disturbance 
called  intestinal  intoximia.  This  comes  when  the  food  remains  in 
the  intestines  for  a  long  time. 

V 

FOOD  FOR  YOUR  CHILDREN 

Help  your  child  to  grow  big  and  strong 

Uncle  Sam  is  determined  to  save  our  babies.  America  has 
been  startled  by  the  physical  defects  of  the  young  manhood  re- 
vealed by  the  selective  draft  and,  therefore,  the  government  has 
started  a  campaign  to  free  the  rising  generation  from  like  dis- 
ability. It  is  a  startling  fact  that  according  to  records  the  sol- 
dier has  seven  times  more  chances  for  living  than  an  American 
baby  during  the  first  year  of  its  life. 

The  most  desirable  foods  for  children  are  milk,  eggs,  beef- 
steak, mutton  chop,  roast  lamb  and  chicken,  baked,  boiled  or 
steamed  vegetables,  fruits,  custards,  junket,  rice  pudding,  tapioca, 
gelatine,  milk,  water,  cocoa. 


88  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

The  following  should  not  be  given  to  children:  Dried  or  salted 
fish  or  meat,  fried  or  sauted  foods,  raw  vegetables,  fresh  and  rich 
preserves,  tea,  coffee,  or  alcoholic  drinks. 

Here's  Good  Food  for  a  Real  Youngster's  Day 

A  good  breakfast  to  start  him  off:  Milk,  corn  meal  mush,  apple 
sauce.  It  makes  him  fit  for  school  and  fit  for  play. 

MILK,  and  plenty  of  it,  makes  him  grow — a  quart  each  day 
if  you  can.  Put  it  on  his  cereal  and  in  his  soup.  Make  it  into 
puddings  or  custards  for  him.  Try  the  recipes  on  the  next  page 
and  watch  him  smile. 

WHOLE  milk  is  best,  of  course,  but  skim  milk  is  good  if  there 
is  a  little  butter  in  his  meals.  Cottage  cheese  is  good,  too. 

NO  COFFEE  OR  TEA— not  even  a  taste.  Leave  them  for  the 
grown-ups.  Milk,  cocoa,  not  too  strong,  and  fruit  juices  are  the 
drinks  for  children,  and  plenty  of  water  always. 

FRUIT  they  enjoy,  and  they  need  it,  too;  baked  apples,  apple 
sauce,  thoroughly  ripe  bananas,  prunes,  oranges,  etc.  Give  them 
vegetables,  fresh  or  canned.  Plenty  of  fruits  and  vegetables  tend 
to  prevent  constipation.  Use  proper  food  and  do  not  depend 
upon  laxatives. 

OTHER  FOODS  a  child  needs:  Whole  wheat  bread,  not  too 
fresh  corn  bread,  well-cooked  oatmeal,  corn  meal,  rice.  They  help 
make  strong  boys  and  girls.  Some  fats,  butter  or  margarine  or 
meat  fats  on  his  bread  or  in  gravies.  An  egg,  perhaps,  particu- 
larly if  he  doesn't  get  his  full  quart  of  milk,  or  he  can  have  a 
little  meat  or  fresh  fish,  but  he  does  not  need  much. 

SWEETS  are  good  for  them — the  right  kinds  at  the  right  time. 
Dates,  raisins,  stewed  fruits,  simple  puddings,  sugar  cookies  are 
better  than  candy.  Give  them  at  meal  times. 

Betweeen  meals  let  them  have  bread  and  butter,  a  cracker  or 
fruit.  They  won't  spoil  the  appetite,  and  candy  will. 

PLAN  MEALS   LIKE  THESE 

Here  are  two  sets  of  the  right  kind  for  your  youngster.  Grown 
people  will  like  them,  too.  If  sometimes  these  seem  too  much 
work,  bread  and  milk  alone  will  make  a  good  meal. 


Meat  Savers  89 

BREAKFAST 

No.    1  No.    2 

Apple   sauce,  Stewed  prunes, 

Oatmeal  with  milk,  Cocoa    (weak), 

Milk  to  drink.  Toast  and  butter. 

DINNER 

No.    1  No.    2 

Stew,  with  carrots,  potatoes,  Fish,  with  white  sauce, 

and  a  little  meat,  Spinach  or  any  greens, 

Whole   wheat   bread,  Corn  bread, 

Creamy  rice  pudding1,  Milk   to   drink. 
Milk  to   drink. 

SUPPER 

No.    1  No.    2 

Cream  of  bean  soup,  Baked  potato, 

Crackers  and  jam,  Apple   Betty, 

Milk.  Milk. 


90  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 


Your  Child  Must  Have  the  Best  of  Foods 


GOOD  DISHES  FOR  CHILDREN 

These  dishes  are  good  for  children  and  grown-ups,  too.     The  re- 
cipes provide  enough  for  a  family  of  five. 


MILK-VEGETABLE  SOUPS 

1  qt.   milk,  2  cups  thoroughly    cooked    vege- 
21/£  tbsp.  flour,  tables,     finely     chopped, 

2  tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  mashed  or  put  through  a 

or  other  fat,  sieve.  Spinach,  peas,  beans, 

1       tsp.  salt,  potatoes,      o  r      asparagus 

make  good  soups. 

Stir  flour  into  melted  fat  and  mix  with  the  cold  milk.  Add  the 
cooked  vegetables  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  thickened.  If  soup 
is  too  thick,  add  a  little  water  or  milk. 


RICE  PUDDINGS 

1       qt.  milk,  y2  tsp.  salt, 

y$  cup  rice,  %   tsp.  ground  nutmeg  or  cinna- 

y$  cup  sugar,  mon. 

%  cup  raisins  or  chopped 
dates, 

Wash  the  rice,  mix  all  together  and  bake  three  hours  in  a  very 
slow  oven,  stirring  now  and  then  at  first.  This  may  be  made  on 
top  of  the  stove  in  a  double  boiler,  or  in  a  fireless  cooker.  Any 
coarse  cereal  may  be  used  in  place  of  rice. 

For  more  suggestions  send  to  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture for  Farmers'  Bulletin,  "Food  for  Young  Children."  It  tells 
more  about  feeding  children  and  the  reasons  why  right  food  is 
so  important.  It  shows  every  mother  how  to  give  her  children 
their  chance  in  life. 

U.  S.  Food  Leaflet  No.  7. 

Reference,  Holts'  "The   Care  of  Feeding  Children." 

Mrs.  Rose,  "Feeding  the  Family." 


Meat  Savers  91 


Sauces 

To  make  good  sauce  is  to  be  master  of  an  art.  It  requires  great 
care  and  attention  to  the  smallest  detail.  A  sauce  is  intended  as 
an  accompaniment  to  meat,  fish,  vegetables  or  dessert  with  which 
it  is  served,  and  should  be  in  perfect  harmony  with  it.  It  should 
never  be  so  prominent  in  flavoring  as  to  overbalance  the  flavor 
of  the  food.  Certain  sauces  are  associated  with  certain  particular 
foods.  Mint  sauce  with  lamb,  caper  sauce  with  mutton,  cran- 
berry sauce  with  turkey,  and  Hollandaise  sauce  with  fish.  Color 
adds  to  the  attractiveness  of  a  sauce  and  may  be  obtained  by  the 
addition  of  browned  flour,  caramel  or  fruit  vegetable  juices. 

GENERAL  RULES  FOR  MIXING 

The  thickening  material  must  be  separated  by  mixing  with 
either  fat,  cold  liquid  or  sugar  before  heat  is  applied.  Use  an 
equal  amount  of  fat,  double  amount  of  liquid,  double  amount  of 
sugar.  Either  the  thickening  material  is  cold,  the  liquid  is  hot, 
or  the  thickening  material  is  hot  and  the  liquid  is  cold.  When 
the  two  parts  of  the  sauce  are  mixed  the  sauce  must  be  stirred 
until  it  thickens.  Mix  the  salt  with  the  flour. 

METHODS  OF  MIXING 

1.  Hygienic — Mix  the  thickening  material  with  the  cold  liquid, 
stir  into  the  heated  liquid.     Stir  until  the  starch  is  cooked  3-5  min- 
utes over  direct  heat,  15-20  minutes  in  double  boiler  when  milk 
is  used.     Add  butter  just  before  serving. 

2.  American — Mix   thickening   material   with   fat.      Heat   liquid 
and    stir   into    it   the    thickening   material.      Cooked    as    the   first 
method. 

3.  French— Heat  the  fat  and  stir  into  the  thickening  material. 
Add  the  cold  liquid  and  cook  3-5  minutes  over  direct  heat. 


92 


Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 


H 
GO 


__* 

1 

' 

CU 

rt 

OH 

cu 

CO 

CO 
OH 

O      CO 

^  iJ 

</> 

00 

_G 

CO 

p 

O 

CO 

a 

03 

§  § 
i—  i 

*~*         £JD 

i_ 

CO 

CU 

4-J 

CU 

cr1 

^    cu 

CO 

4j"     ^ 

13 

3 

OH 

K 

CJ 

£'-0 
cu 

O 
o> 

2 

CJ 

O 

4-J 

rtrS 

'Jj    w 

P 

CJ  T3 

'is 

J- 

v_ 

LH 

cu 

^H 

cu 

CJ 

j_j 

cu 

+-* 

bD 

4-1 

1    1 

~n 

|_, 

Flavorin 

3    <U 

|| 

3    cu 

O      4^ 

•e-s 

CU     4-1 

^   cu 

CO 

^^ 

+->     03     ; 

•^    be  4-1 

4-J    •—  ~* 

CO 

"~i      O 

CO 

f^      HH 

^2    co    CU 

3 

j3 

\CNJD 

HH      CO 

rH\    2 

r-1    co 

rH\    3 

HH      CO 

C>     CO 

asoning 

4-1 

13 

CO 

d 

CO 

4—  > 

4-1 

"OS 
CO 

d 

CO 

4-1 

CO 

CO 

4—1 

4-) 
CO 

d 

CO 

4-J 

*-HH         *~ri    ^    ^3 

IH             13             ^      W      «> 

dj    .      CU    co    cS    b*,  J-H 

j_] 

to 

S    co    « 

03    cu    g 
G    >   S 

CD 

CO 

^\ 

rH\ 

igfl^S^g 

_G  _O    3 

'G  "u  e! 

bjo 

3 
O 

O 

O 

IH 

O 

HH 

o 

§    J  i    o  1 

UG 

cu 

_ 

< 

^          .  ^   ^          •  ^  ^D 

O    cj 

o 

3 

d 

CO 

-0 

d 

co 

CO 

d 

co 

f^  ,    f-j      ^  FT~V  ^^J      _,      ^ 

1^ 

UH 

4-1 

4-J 

4—1 

4-J 

—  v         4—*          J>      •  *—  •                            ^      ^-r-. 

co  J2    cj 

1—  1 

N 

r^ 

<* 

*->  ^  o  •„  ^  o  ,_ 

4-1  v*  rt 

HH   HH  xi  v^:;    o  J2  >-2 

HH   CO\     CO 

2 

'3 

.21 

1 

OH 
fj 

r^ 

o, 

CJ 

OH 
CJ 

's 

OH 
CJ 

3  "                j-i 
rt   cu   cu  r^   <u   G 

^  >  £  £  cT> 

OH    OH    OH    OH    OH    OH 

5-1                           ? 
4-1  ._H  ""~      OS 

S^'s  S 

OH    OH    OH    OH 

3333 
CJ    CJ     CJ     CJ 

HH 

HH 

HH 

CJ     CJ     U     CJ     CJ     O          f 

HH      HH      HH      HH 

r-O 

C 

<A 

•2n 

*2 

•3 

CU 

O 

ay 

p 

c 

in 

(X 

Q 

o 

OH 

3 

Meat  Savers  93 

CREAM  SOUPS 

Use  equal  portions  of  sauce  and  stock  with  pulp  of  cooked  food. 
This  is  obtained  by  pressing  through  a  sieve.  Combine  and  re- 
heat. 

CREAMED   DISHES 

Use  equal  portions  of  sauce  and  food  to  be  creamed.  Pour  the 
sauces  over  the  food  and  reheat,  if  necessary,  in  double  boiler. 

SCALLOPED  DISHES 

Use  equal  portions  of  sauce  and  food.  Place  alternate  layers 
in  a  buttered  dish.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Reheat  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

SOUFFLES 

Use  equal  portions  of  sauce  and  food  with  3  eggs  to  each  cup 
of  sauce.  Add  the  egg  yolks  to  the  sauce.  Mix  with  the  food. 
Fold  in  the  egg  whites  and  bake  in  buttered  baking  dish  set  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water. 

CROQUETTES 

Use  equal  portions  of  sauce  and  food.  Mix  and  cool.  Shape 
roll  in  crumbs  slightly  and  add  1  tablespoonful  of  water  or  milk. 


94  "Win  the  War"  Cook  Book 


Eggs 

The  Nature  of  the  Nutrients  in  eggs  is  of  almost  as  much  in- 
terest and  importance  as  their  amount.  The  fact  that  when  an 
egg  is  kept  at  a  proper  temperature  for  about  three  weeks,  with- 
out the  addition  of  anything  from  without,  it  produces  a  chick  so 
well  developed  as  to  begin  to  walk  and  eat  the  same  food  as  the 
adult,  suggests  at  once  that  the  egg  must  contain  substances 
which  are  very  efficient  as  sources  both  of  the  energy  and  the 
materials  for  growth  and  development.  Children  from  one  year 
to  twelve  years  should  not  be  deprived  of  the  growth-determining 
substances,  namely,  vitamines  in  eggs  and  milk  and  butter;  eggs 
contain  the  iron  for  the  anemic. 

7-8  eggs— 1  pound  of  meat  of  food  value. 

See  effect  of  heat  on  protein. 

Eggs  are  used  as 

1.  A  meat  substitute. 

2.  A  flavor. 

3.  A  leavening  agent. 

4.  A  thickening  agent. 

5.  A  clarifying  agent. 

Cookery  of  Eggs. 

1.  As  leavening  agents. 

The  egg  white  of  a  beaten  egg  is  full  of  air  bubbles  surrounded 
by  the  cell  wall  of  protein.  The  air  is  a  gas  and  expands  with 
heat,  thus  making  the  substance  (as  in  cake)  light. 

2.  Thickening  agent. 

Heat  coagulates  the  protein  of  the  egg,  thus  forming  a  thickened 
mass  (as  in  custards).  Egg  as  a  thickening  agent  is  equal  to  1 
tablespoonful  cornstarch. 

3.  Eggs   act  both  as   a  leavening  and  flavor  in  quick   breads. 
They  can  be  omitted  in  these  foods.     The  flavor  may  be  omitted 
when  eggs  are  high  by  using  good  brands  of  desiccated  or  pow- 
dered egg. 

4.  As  a  clarifying  agent.     The  albumen  surrounds  and  coagu- 
lates around  the  coffee  grain,  making  coffee  grain  heavy,  and  it 
settles  to  the  bottom  of  the  pot  in  which  it  is  cooking. 


Meat  Savers  95 

Note:  Add  a  speck  of  salt  to  egg  white;  it  toughens  the  pro- 
tein (albumin)  just  a  little  and  makes  it  beat  up  better. 
Percentage  Composition: 

White:  Yolk: 

Water    76.2%  Water    45.5% 

Protein    ___. 12.3%  Protein    15.7% 

Fat    .2%  Fat   33.3% 

Ash    6%  Ash                       ___  1.1% 

Mineral  matter  or  ash:  Sulphur,  phosphorus,  hydrogen,  sulphide. 
The  blueish-green  coating  around  the  yolk  of  a  hard  cooked  egg  is 
due  to  the  mineral  matter.  Because  of  the  mineral  matter  (bone 
and  nerve  building  materials)  eggs  are  good  for  growing  children. 
They  contain  all  the  necessary  elements  in  the  right  proportion 
for  growth. 

Testing  Eggs: 

A  good  fresh  egg 

1.  Has  a  rough  shell. 

2.  Is  clear  when  held  to  a  light. 

3.  Sinks  in  water. 

4.  Has  no  sound  of  movement  when  shaken. 

Methods  of  Preservation: 

1.  Coating  shell  (paraffine). 

2.  Putting  eggs  in  lime  water. 

3.  Putting  eggs  in  brine. 

4.  Packing  in  bran  or  salt. 

5.  Water  glass  solution. 

6.  Cold  storage.     30-40°  F. 

Note:  Eggs  in  water  glass  have  been  known  to  keep  S1/^ 
months  and  taste  just  as  good  as  fresh  eggs. 

Methods  of  Cooking  Eggs: 

Soft  Eggs. 

1.  Soft  boiled:  place  egg  in  boiling  water,  cover  and  remove  to 
place    where    water   will    keep    hot,    but    not   boil,    8-10    minutes. 
180°  F.,  87°  C. 

2.  Put  in  boiling  water  and  boil  vigorously  from  2-3  minutes. 
(This  toughens  protein;  is  not  a  good  method.) 

3.  Put  egg  on  in  cold  water  and  bring  to  a  boil  and  egg  is  done. 


96  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

Hard   Eggs. 

1.  Place  egg  in  boiling  water  and  remove  to  warm  place  for  40 
minutes  (double  boiler). 

2.  Put  eggs  on  in  cold  water  and  boil  30  minutes   (not  a  good 
method). 

Note:  Place  egg  after  cooking  in  cold  water,  this  allows  the 
egg  to  shrink  from  shell  and  lining. 

Always  wash  eggs  before  breaking  open  or  cooking.  The  shells 
are  dirty  and  covered  with  bacteria. 

RECIPE   FOR  WATER  GLASS 

V2  part  syrup  of  Calcium  Silicate, 
10      parts  water. 

BREAD  OMELET 

3       eggs,  %  tsp.  salt, 

y2  cup  milk,  Vz  tsp.  pepper, 

%  cup  crumbs,  1       tbsp.  oleo. 

Soak  bread  in  milk,  add  beaten  egg  yolks  and  seasonings.  Fold 
in  beaten  whites,  cook  and  serve  as  plain  omelet. 

Anna  Jensen, 
St.  Joseph,  Mo. 

DRIED  EGGS 

The  method  of  using  the  dried  egg  is  very  simple.  One  slightly 
rounded  tablespoonful  is  equivalent  to  one  average-sized  egg.  This 
amount  soaked  for  half  an  hour  in  3  tablespoonfuls  of  water  may 
be  used  in  place  of  one  egg.  The  egg  will  soften  up  more  easily 
and  be  ready  more  quickly  if  stirred  with  fork  at  intervals. 

Substituting  on  this  basis,  one  may  use  dried  eggs  in  any  re- 
cipe for  cakes,  cookies,  muffins,  custard,  cooked  salad  dressings, 
etc.,  in  which  the  whites  and  yolks  are  not  separated.  The  follow- 
;ng  ways  of  using  dried  eggs  are  suggested: 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS 

4  tbsp.  dried  eggs  soaked  in         V±  can  milk, 

%  cup  water,  Salt, 

1  tbsp.  butter  sub.,  Pepper. 

Soak  egg  and  beat  well,  add  milk,  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  in 


Meat  Savers  97 

the  hot  fat.    This  amount  serves  four  people.    The  food  value  will 
be  increased  if  the  egg  is  soaked  in  one  cup  of  skim  milk. 

CUSTARDS 

Custards  are  combinations  of  milk  and  egg  sweetened  and 
flavored.  Because  of  the  protein  present  they  should  be  cooked  at 
a  low  temperature.  This  is  accomplished  by  steaming  or  by  bak- 
ing in^  molds  set  in  pans  of  water.  Custards  are  classified  accord- 
ing to  the  method  of  preparation.  There  are  two  kinds,  steamed 
and  baked. 

To  Combine  a  Steamed  Custard  scald  the  milk  and  pour  it  over 
the  egg  which  has  been  beaten  with  the  sugar  and  salt.  Return 
the  mixture  to  the  double  boiler  and  steam,  stirring  constantly 
until  done.  Add  the  flavoring  just  before  removing  from  the  fire. 

To  Combine  a  Baked  Custard,  beat  the  egg  with  the  sugar  and 
salt.  Add  the  cold  milk  and  flavoring.  Pour  into  molds  and  set 
in  pans  of  water  and  bake  until  done. 

To  Test  a  Steamed  Custard,  lift  the  spoon  from  the  mixture.  Jf 
the  spoon  is  coated  the  custard  is  done. 

To  Test  a  Baked  Custard,  insert  a  knife.  If  it  comes  out  clean 
the  custard  is  done. 

SOFT  CUSTARD 


2       tbsp.  dried  eggs  soaked  in     l1^  cups  milk, 
y3  cup  water  for  20-30  min.         %  cup  (4  tbsp.)  honey  or  syrup, 

or  1-2  eggs,  Flavoring. 

Add  the  syrup  to  the  milk;  beat  in  double  boiler,  and  when  hot, 
add  the  egg  well  soaked  and  beaten.  Stir  while  cooking,  and 
when  custard  has  thickened,  strain  it  so  that  any  particles  of  dried 
egg  not  soluble  will  be  removed.  It  will  be  found  that  the  amount 
of  insoluble  matter  is  very  little  greater  than  in  a  custard  made 
with  fresh  eggs. 

BAKED  CUSTARD 

2       tbsp.  (slightly  rounded)  of     1       cup  milk, 

dried  eggs  soaked  with          %   cup  honey  or  syrup, 
^3  cup  water,  or  2  eggs,  Flavoring. 

Combine  as  in  the  soft  custard,  strain,  add  flavoring  and  bake 
in  an  earthenware  or  granite  baking  dish  in  a  slow  oven  until 
"set."  Attractive  when  baked  in  ramekins  and  served  individually. 


98 


the    War"   Cook  Book 


CO 

»-H 

O 

Q 


cu 

CU     tif 

Hi    k^ 

S 

seasoning 
lortening,  table  us 

shortening 
butter  substitute 

seasoning 
butter  substitute 

shortening, 
frying,  sauteing 

bo 
G 
'53    M) 

4->      G 

3'2 
S§ 

beo 

C^G 

'bM 

frying,  sauteing 
shortening 

frying,  sauteing, 
shortening 

bo 

.S 

co   be 

"^'b 

03 
rt 

CO 

CU  T3 

4_J      rt 
•  -<      CO 

co    G 

P  rG 

substitute  for 
butter  in  cooking 

iubstitute  for  oliv< 
il  in  salad  dressing 
and  frying 

oleomargarine 

_M 

CO 

CO      Q 

J  o 

c 

e 

.2 

53 

CJ 

y 

CJ 

CJ 

O 

CO  4—  > 

CJ 

o 

o 

0 

o 

0 

0  C 

O 

CO 

O 

O 

o 

a'® 

O 

^*O 

0 

1—  1 

O 

vo 

hH 

o 

OJ 

Q 

1      CJ 

T3  o 

^G   O 

bio 

O    4-J 

C3  "*"* 

o 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

U 

0 

CJ 

CJ 

•43  C 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

O 

o 

o 

0 

"So 

O 

0 

00 

O 

00 

O 

co    juo 

~~ 

rh 

to 

•**• 

CO 

CO 

LO 

"* 

M 

c^ 

G    c 

•  r-«        * 

" 

be'^ 

PC  ""• 

OT 

co    u 

#H3 

JJ 

•5^3 

4-> 

-o 

72 

T3 

.^H 
—  4J 

eS°2 

o  C 

•s® 

|| 

8-1 

O     4-1 
l-l     4-1 

0    3 

IS  *Q 

^     CO 

G 
CU 

°12 

8^ 

*l 

CO      P^> 

O 

O 

CO  iG 

'Q.- 
CJ     P 

|1 

CO 

II 

'o 

CO 

£?« 

f3  rt 

^s 

,a 

"o  "cu 

bo  >, 

QJ  f—  » 

^£ 

CU     r* 
1—  .     *^ 

*^  ""*    G 

"co    O 
G    °° 
cj 

4J 

0,    S 

•M     CS 

^  % 

OS  "~ 

4-1 

CU     ^ 

*•*  ^2 

1 

O  "cu 

•  — 

u 

C   +-• 

be  u 

&  u 

^ 

CO 

>> 

r, 

1 

ri  -M 

J_J 

—  < 

CO 

p 

0) 

5 
a 

cream 

72  cu 
S  J 

J5  r^  G 

-3  fi 

i-2  ^  u 

.     4J      1- 

be  3   O 

Co 

•  —  * 
£ 

M-H    G 
cu    o 

CU     4-> 

ottonseed  o; 
f  .  fat  hog  fa 

egetable  fa' 
hydrogen 

rt 

cu 

'o 

refined 
ottonseed  o: 

p 
2  S 

,,  ,    p, 

CO 

O    rt 
G   bo 

be  Q 
o 

ocoanut  oil  en 

> 

J3 

OX) 

> 

CJ 

~CJ 

o 

CJ 

O      . 

vo      1 

-Q 

ff) 

o 

in  o 

o 

_Q 

o 

^  ^Q   i- 

VH 

IV 

CJ 

o  7 

o  TJ 

U")     • 

HH 

c>o  TJ 

o^ 

27!" 

CU 

CX 

£ 

>-o  cu 

CX 

cu 

CX 

M   cu 

CX 

CX 

cu  o 

0 

LO 

_C 

cu 

S 

3 

cu 
.S 

4-1 

be 

cu 

•  i—  > 

'o 

'5 

03 

« 

cu 

"O 

'o 

G 

4_) 

03 

5 

4-> 

O 

a 

0 

T3 

2 

o 

0 

CO 

CU 
CO 
CO 

G 
rt 

"o 

N 

c3 

o 

CJ 

0 

PC 

cu 

P< 

O 

CTS 

o 
U 

G 
CO 

u 

0 

^ 

PH 

•_ 

O 
ifi 


Fats  and  Butter  Substitutes 

Note:  Dairy  butter  has  food  value  vital  to  children,  therefore 
use  it  on  the  table  as  usual.  Use  vegetable  oils,  as  olive,  cotton 
seed  and  corn  oil.  Save  daily  one-third  of  an  ounce  of  animal  fat. 
Waste  no  soap,  it  contains  fat  and  the  glycerine  necessary  for  ex- 
plosives. You  can  make  scrubbing  soap  at  home,  and  in  some 
localities  you  can  sell  your  saved  fats  to  the  soap  maker,  who 
will  thus  save  our  needed  glycerine. 

U.   S.   Food  Administration. 


HOW  TO  SAVE  FATS 

Bab   Bell, 

Extension  Assistant  Professor  of  Home  Economics, 

Missouri  University 

Fats  are  derived  from  two  sources — animal  and  vegetable. 
Animal,  such  as  lard,  butter,  cream,  beef  fat,  mutton  fat  and 
poultry  fat.  Vegetables,  such  as  corn,  cotton  seed,  olive,  peanut, 
cocoanut,  soy  bean  and  sesame  oils. 

Formerly  more  animal  fats  than  vegetable  fats  have  been  used. 
Butter  and  lard  were  plentiful,  accessible  and  in  convenient  form 
for  household  use.  The  average  housekeeper  depended  upon  them 
to  the  exclusion  of  all  other  forms  of  fat.  Since  there  is  a  short- 
age in  these  particular  fats,  housekeepers  must  learn  (1)  to 
economize  in  the  use  of  these  by  cutting  down  the  amount  of  fat 
used;  (2)  to  substitute  wherever  possible  vegetable  fats  in  place 
of  animal  fats. 

Since  the  conservation  of  fats  in  the  home  is  a  very  important 
means  of  increasing  the  supply  needed  for  exportation  and  home 
use,  it  becomes  imperative  that  housewives  should  have  a  thor- 
ough knowledge  concerning  their  composition,  food  value,  digesti- 
bility, uses  in  cookery  and  general  rules  for  conservation. 


7987534 


100 


"[I'm   the    W'i>-"   Cook  Book 


a 

» 

O>  ••-  < 

"Jala  ^ 

>o             vo              C 

I              C 

c 

c 

C 

I              C 

c 

C 

1 

iS 

O                      C*                       T 

vo              LO            u 

h            <N 
i            <> 

-i               T: 

CN 
CN 

h             ^ 

c^ 
«s 

h            r 

M 

r- 

h             T 

CN 
<s 

h             T 

(N 
cs 

h             r 

c 

CS 

h            T 

1- 

c^             r* 

1 

. 

en 

ohydrate 

.0 

S-l 

03 

CQ 

H 

ta 

ui             m             O 

OO               OO               QC 

N               g 

!C 
C 

C 

C 

C 

C 

C 
C 

C 
C 

C 
C 

fe 

N 

^ 

h- 

H- 

h- 

H- 

H 

^ 

0 

O 

HH 

c 

H 

4B 

. 

•x 

— 

p 

HH                         1—  1                         T 

• 

FH 

O 

PL, 

fri 

o 

-1-3 

e« 

>—  i               ON             r* 

i—  i                                i— 

«« 
•> 

s— 

-r 

u 

<u 

(U 

/— 
"C 
<L 

< 

c 

0. 

x,^, 

C 

f 

o3 

J?              « 

^                              fr. 
CJ               c 

1 

"^ 
4- 

f 

-v 

> 

4- 

i 
<u 

c 

C 

c 

C 
c 

0 

pq         O         PC 

<L 

r- 

uz 

i- 

CT 

h^ 

p 

c 
PH 

c 
U 

u 
C 

U 

03 
<U 
PL, 

O 

Fats  and  Ilxftcr  Snhxtil/itc*  101 

Food  Value:  From  this  table  the  comparative  food  value  of 
fats  in  general  is  seen.  It  should  be  remembered  that  fat  yields 
two  and  one-fourth  times  as  much  energy  for  the  body  as  equal 
weights  of  carbohydrates  or  protein.  More  and  more  is  the  im- 
portance of  fat  in  the  diet  being  recognized.  Thirty  per  cent  of 
the  total  number  of  calories  needed  in  the  diet  should  be  furnished 
by  fat.  In  the  ordinary  diet  this  is  approximately  four  table- 
spoonfuls  or  one-fourth  cup. 

The  digestibility  of  fat  is  of  more  importance,  especially  when 
making  substitutions.  Generally  speaking,  animal  fats  and  vege- 
table fats  are  equally  digestible.  Recent  investigations  have 
shown  that  there  is  very  little  difference  in  the  digestibility  of  fats 
that  have  a  melting  point  below  body  temperature.  While  the 
eating  of  large  quantities  of  fat  may  retard  the  digestion  of  food, 
it  is  unlikely  that  any  serious  discomfort  will  be  felt  if  it  is  pre- 
pared intelligently.  Fats  in  general  are  completely  digested,  but 
require  a  longer  time  than  most  foods. 

Butter:  Butter  is  the  most  widely  used  of  all  fats.  It  has  been 
estimated  that  from  17  to  18  pounds  per  person  are  consumed 
yearly.  There  are  many  good  and  wholesome  butter  substitutes 
on  the  market  which  may  be  used  both  for  cooking  and  table  use. 
However,  if  these  are  used  exclusively  in  the  feeding  of  children, 
care  should  be  used  that  the  supply  of  whole  milk  should  not  be 
decreased.  Whole  milk  and  butter  contain  certain  substances 
essential  to  growth  which  are  entirely  lacking  or  present  in  small 
quantities  in  butter  substitutes. 

Oleomargarine:  Oleomargarine  is  a  name  given  to  butter  sub- 
stitutes made  by  churning  fats  other  than  butter  with  milk  or 
cream.  The  principal  fats  usuallv  used  in  the  manufacture  of 
oleomargarine  are  oleo  oil  made  of  beef  fat  and  neutral  lard  made 
of  leaf  and  cotton  seed  oil.  Oleomargarine  is  a  good,  wholesome 
product,  and  there  should  be  no  objection  to  its  use  if  it  is  proD- 
erly  labeled.  The  best  grades  of  oleomargarine  contain  nearly 
one-third  as  much  of  the  growth-promoting  substances  (vita- 
mines)  as  butter  does. 

Beef  Fat:  Beef  fat  is  harder  than  lard  and  has  a  more  pro- 
nounced flavor.  For  these  reasons  it  is  not  used  extensively  in 
cooking.  However,  in  certain  dishes,  finely  chopped  unrendered 
suet  is  used,  and  in  some  countries  drippings  from  the  cooked 


102  "Win   the   Wat-"   Cook   Book 

beef  or  rendered  beef  suet  are  used  in  place  of  butter  on  bread. 

Suet  alone  is  of  a  hard  consistency,  but  a  good  and  satisfactory 
compound  may  be  had  by  mixing  cotton  seed  oil,  corn  oil,  etc.,  with 
suet.  Mix  one  part  of  oil  with  two  or  three  parts  of  rendered 
suet.  If  V2  cup  of  skim  milk  be  added  to  1  cup  of  suet  before 
rendering,  the  flavoring  is  improved.  In  summer,  suet  may  be 
added  to  lard  in  small  amounts  in  order  to  have  a  harder  fat. 

Lard:  Lard  is  one  of  the  most  commonly  used  animal  fats.  It 
is  made  from  the  fat  of  hogs  and  heretofore  has  been  plentiful 
and  comparatively  cheap.  Owing  to  the  fact  that  most  women 
are  in  the  habit  of  using  lard,  it  is  somewhat  difficult  to  accustom 
them  to  the  use  of  vegetable  oils  and  fats. 

Cotton  Seed  Oil:  Cotton  seed  oil  is  obtained  from  the  seeds  of 
the  cotton  plant.  One  ton  of  seeds  yields  50  gallons  of  oil.  Prep- 
arations made  of  cotton  seed  oil  are  sold  in  the  liquid  form,  Wes- 
son oil  being  a  typical  example.  In  addition,  cotton  seed  oil  is 
treated  chemically  to  form  hard  fats,  such  as  Snow  Drift,  White 
Cliff,  Crisco,  etc.  All  of  these  compounds  have  been  found  to  be 
good  and  wholesome  products.  Combinations  of  cotton  seed  oil 
and  animal  fats  are  also  on  the  market.  The  label  on  all  pack- 
ages gives  the  ingredients. 

Corn  Oil:  This  oil,  which  is  made  from  corn,  has  only  lately 
«"ome  into  general  use  for  food  purposes.  It  is  a  wonderful  sub- 
stitute for  olive  oil.  Has  a  good  flavor.  May  be  used  in  all  kinds 
of  cooking. 

Peanut  Oil:  The  oil  made  from  peanuts  is  comparatively  new 
in  this  country,  since  peanuts  have  been  disposed  of  in  other  ways. 
Its  use  in  cookery  is  very  limited  at  the  present  time. 

Olive  Oil:  Olive  oil  is  prepared  from  the  olive  fruit,  and  is  one 
of  the  oldest  oils  now  in  use.  The  flavor  depends  upon  the  variety 
of  olive,  ripeness  when  picked,  manner  of  handling,  length  of  time 
of  storage,  etc.  The  extensive  use  of  olive  oil  is  due  to  its  flavor. 
Olive  oil  has  no  more  food  value  than  the  other  oils.  Its  high 
price  is  due  to  its  flavor  alone. 

All  fats  have  advanced  in  price,  yet  a  great  saving  may  be  ac- 
complished by  investigating  the  available  fats  on  the  market, 
their  composition  and  their  prices.  As  a  general  rule  fats  are 
less  expensive  when  purchased  in  large  quantities.  A  decided  sav- 


Fats  and  Butter  Substitutes  103 

ing  may  be  made  by  purchasing  both  oils  in  gallon  receptacles 
and  harder  fats  in  corresponding   amounts. 

Many  commercial  fats  are  sold  with  the  statement  that  one- 
third  less  may  be  used  than  lard.  This  statement  is  somewhat 
misleading.  One  fat  should  be  substituted  for  another  according 
to  its  composition.  All  100  per  cent  fats  given  in  the  table  on  the 
composition  of  fats  may  be  used  interchangeably.  Approximately 
seven-eighths  as  much  of  these  fats  will  substitute  for  butter 
and  oleomargarine. 

Savory  Fats:  Savory  fats  may  be  made  when  undesirable  flav- 
ors are  to  be  eliminated.  Usually  strong  seasonings,  such  as 
thyme,  sage,  marjoram,  summer  savory,  bay  leaves  or  onions  are 
added  to  unrendered  fats,  having  pronounced  odors  or  flavors  like 
those  of  beef  or  mutton. 

These  seasonings  mask  the  strong  original  flavors.  Render  in 
a  double  boiler  and  strain  carefully  through  a  cloth  so  that  all 
bits  of  herb  are  removed.  Adding  salt  after  rendering  improves 
the  flavor. 

Savory  fats  may  also  be  prepared  from  rendered  fats  by  adding 
the  seasonings,  heating  the  mixture  and  straining. 

Fats  with  strong  flavors,  such  as  suet  and  mutton  fat,  may  be 
improved  by  heating  with  water,  milk,  or  charcoal.  If  charcoal  is 
used,  all  pieces  may  be  removed  by  straining  through  a  heavy 
cloth. 

Care  of  Fats:  All  fats  which  are  to  be  stored  for  some  time 
should  be  protected  from  heat,  light  and  air,  in  order  to  prevent 
them  from  becoming  rancid.  Keep  in  tightly  covered  receptacles 
and  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

In  summer  time  scraps  of  fat  which  are  saved  should  be  ren- 
dered promptly  to  prevent  them  from  becoming  rancid.  It  is  also 
important  in  rendering  or  clarifying  fats  that  all  moisture  be 
driven  off,  since  molds  are  very  apt  to  grow  if  fats  contain  mois- 
ture. 

Keep  butter,  oleomargarine  and  other  butter  substitutes  in  a 
cool  place  away  from  food  having  strong  odors,  since  odors  are 
readily  absorbed  by  these  fats.  Store  the  oils  in  closed  cans  or 
bottles  wrapped  in  paper  in  a  cool  place — the  refrigerator  is  pref- 
erable. 


104  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

How  to  Render  Fats:  Chop  in  small  pieces  or  put  through  a 
meat  chopper,  heat  in  a  double  boiler  until  all  the  fat  has  melted. 
The  use  of  a  double  boiler  prevents  too  high  a  temperature.  If 
fat  is  over-heated  it  will  become  rancid.  Strain  through  a  cloth, 
heat  again  to  sterilize  and  drive  off  moisture. 

How  to  Clarify  Fats:  Method  I:  Melt  the  fat  with  an  equal 
proportion  of  water  in  a  double  boiler.  Strain  through  a  cloth. 
When  cold  remove  the  layer  of  fat  from  the  water. 

Method  II:  Follow  directions  given  in  I,  using  sour  milk.  Flav- 
ors and  odors  are  modified. 

Method  III:  Follow  directions  in  I,  adding  several  pieces  of 
clean  hardwood  charcoal.  If  beef  fat  is  being  clarified,  the  yellow 
color  is  removed  and  a  white  odorless  fat  is  secured. 

In  many  homes  the  practice  of  making  soap  from  drippings, 
trimmings,  etc.,  has  long  been  the  custom.  At  the  present  time 
when  fats  are  so  scarce  every  effort  should  be  made  to  utilize 
every  particle  for  good.  If  the  scrap  jar  is  watched  carefully,  no 
fats  will  be  available  for  soap  making. 

Many  people  are  eating  more  fat  than  their  bodies  require. 
This  extravagance  means  that  our  soldiers  and  the  working  people, 
who  need  generous  amounts  of  fat,  will  be  denied  this  necessity. 
If  everyone  realizes  the  seriousness  of  the  situation  and  will  cut 
down  on  his  daily  allowance  of  butter,  cream,  oil  and  cooking  fat, 
a  large  amount  of  fat  will  be  saved. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  FAT  CONSERVATION 

1.  Eat  just  enough  fat  to  supply  body  needs.     Thirty  per  cent 
of  the  total  number  of  calories  in  the  ration  is  sufficient,  or  four 
level  tablespoons. 

2.  Leave  no  fat  on  the  plate.    This  means  fat  from  meat  as  well 
as  butter. 

3.  Use   pure   butter   on   the   table,    especially   for   children,   but 
sparingly  for  cooking. 

4.  Do  not  use  it  in  cooking. 

5.  Peanut  butter,  jellies,  or  nut  and  fig  paste  are  excellent  sub- 
stitutes. 

6.  Use    vegetable    fats    (made    solid    by    treating    commercially 
with  hydrogen). 

7.  Use  vegetable  oils  for  frying  and  salad  dressings. 


Fats  </i/<l  Ittifler  Substitutes  105 

8.  Make  gravies  to  conserve   the   flavor  of  the  extractives  and 
the  food  value  fats  from  meats. 

9.  Keep   all  rinds   of  bacon  and   salt  pork.     Use  as   seasonings 
when  cooking  cabbage,  greens,  vegetables,  soups,  etc. 

10.  Save  all  trimmings  from  beef,  pork,  mutton  and  fowl.  Ren- 
der and  use  in  cooking. 

11.  Keep    a    small   jar  for   bits   of  fats,   drippings    or   gristles. 
When  a  sufficient  amount  has  been  collected,  render  the  contents. 

WAR  BUTTER 

How  to  make  2a/4  pounds  of  butter  out  of  1  pound, 
of  Vz  pound. 

1  Ib.  butter,  1  tbsp.  gelatine. 

1  pt.  rich  milk, 

Method  No.  1.  Cream  butter.  Put  small  amount  cold  milk  with 
gelatine.  Heat  rest,  pour  over  soaked  gelatine.  Add  to  butter, 
heat  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  place  on  platter  by  spoonful  to 
thicken.  1  pound  makes  2*4  pounds. 

V2  Ib.  butter,  V2  Ib.  whole  milk. 

1       tsp.  salt, 

Method  No.  2.  Churn  2  minutes.  Can  be  done  with  mason  jar 
and  spoon  beater,  ice  cream  freezer,  Daisy  churn. 

PASTRY 

Use  little  pastry  when  you  do  make  pies,  use  one  crust  instead 
of  two. 

Try  the  New  England  deep  apple  pie,  with  only  one  top  crust. 

Use  the  vegetable  fats  instead  of  animal  fats  in  making  pastry. 

If  vegetable  oils  are  used  the  quantity  of  fat  may  be  reduced 
by  one-third;  that  is  2%  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  to  1  cup  of  flour  is 
sufficient.  The  oil  itself  helps  to  moisten  the  flour  so  that  very 
little  water  is  necessary.  The  dough  should  be  made  as  dry  as 
possible  to  make  a  tender  pastry. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

CONSERVATION  OF  PIE  CRUST 
CORN  MEAL  CRUST 

Grease  a  pie  plate  well.  Cover  with  raw  corn  meal,  giving  the 
plate  a  rotating  motion  so  that  an  even  layer  of  the  meal  will 


106  "Win   the   Wai"   Cook  Book 

stick  to   the  plate  about  1/16  of   an  inch   in  thickness.     Fill   the 
plate  with  pumpkin  pie  mixture.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 

OATMEAL  CRUST 

2  cups  finely  ground  oatmeal,       1  tsp.  salt. 

I  cup  boiling  water, 

Scald  the  oatmeal  with  the  water.  Add  fat  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Roll  very  thin  and  line  small  pie  or  tart  tins  with  the  mixture. 
Bake  in  hot  oven.  Fill  with  apricot  marmalade  or  other  thick  mix- 
ture. If  desired  spread  a  meringue  on  top  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

MEATLESS  MINCEMEAT 

Another  culinary  triumph  in  the  art  of  food  conservation  has 
been  brought  to  the  attention  of  housewives  of  the  country  by  the 
National  Emergency  Garden  Commission  as  a  worthy  companion 
of  pumpkinless  pumpkin  pies  and  gingerless  ginger  bread.  The 
new  mincemeat,  officially  described  as  "camouflage,"  was  tried  on 
500  troops  on  a  transport,  who  pronounced  it  perfect  and  called 
for  more.  Half  a  package  of  raisins,  half  a  pound  of  prunes 
stewed  with  lemon  juice  and  peeled;  %  cup  of  sweet  cider,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  or  brown  sugar.  Chop  raisins  and  prunes  together  and 
the  result  is  said  to  be  a  meatless  mincemeat  pie  in  accord  with 
the  Food  Administration's  meatless  Tuesday. 

MOCK  MINCEMEAT   (No  Meat) 
To  Be  Baked  in  U.  S.  Food  Administration  Crust 

II  cups  chopped   green   to-  cups   water, 

matoes,  5       cups  brown  sugar, 

cups  chopped  apples,  %  cup  suet, 

l1/^   cups  vinegar,  1       tsp.  salt. 

2       packages  raisins, 
2       tbsp.  mixed  spices  (allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg), 

Grind  tomatoes,  add  salt,  drawn  over  night  through  bag.  Mix 
all  ingredients  and  cook  slowly  for  2%  hours. 

Note:  Best  results  are  obtained  by  using-  fireless  cooker,  and 
cooking  6  or  7  hours.  Mrs.  R.  J.  Winters. 

BRER  RABBIT  OLE  SOUTH  MOLASSES  PIE 
A  Southern  Pie  That  Will  Make  Any  Cook  Proud 

1.  Boil  2  cups  of  Brer  Rabbit  Molasses  and  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter. 


Fats  and  Butter  Substitutes  107 

2.  Break  4  eggs  in  bowl  or  pan;  add  pinch  salt;  beat  until  well 
mixed. 

3.  Pour  the  molasses  over  the  eggs,  stirring  briskly. 

4.  Have  pie  pans   lined  with  crust.     Pour  in  and  bake.     This 
makes  two  pies.     If  you  wish  to  make  but  one  pie,  equally  divide 
the  ingredients. 


PREPARATION    AND    PROPERTIES    OF    SOAP    AND 
EQUATIONS  SHOWING  THE  REACTIONS 

Natural  fats  and  oils  are  essentially  mixtures  of  stearin,  pal- 
mi  tin  and  olein.  Beef  and  mutton  fat  are  chiefly  stearin,  lard  is 
mainly  palmitin  and  olein,  and  while  oils,  such  as  olive,  are  chiefly 
olein,  stearin  and  palmitin  are  solids  at  the  ordinary  temperature, 
but  olein  is  a  liquid. 

Tallow  is  chiefly  stearin,  but  human  fat  and  palm  oil  are  largely 
palmitin.  The  soft  and  liquid  fats  and  oils  contain  considerable 
olein  as  a  rule.  The  proportion  of  the  olein  determines  the  con- 
sistency of  the  fats  and  oils.  Thus  olive  oil  contains  72  per  cent 
of  olein  (and  a  similar  fat)  and  about  28  per  cent  of  stearin  and 
palmitin. 

Butter  consists  of  fats  corresponding  to  the  following  acids: 
palmitic,  stearic,  oleic,  butyric,  capric  and  caproic.  The  last  three, 
together  with  traces  of  other  substances,  give  butter  its  pleasant 
flavor.  Oleomargarine  and  other  substitutes  for  butter  resemble 
real  butter  very  closely  in  composition. 

C3H3(OH)3. 

Glycerine  is  a  thick,  sweet  liquid.  It  is  used  to  make  nitro- 
glycerine. It  is  also  used  as  a  solvent,  a  lubricator,  a  preservation 
for  certain  foods  as  a  sweetening  substance  in  certain  preserves 
and  candy. 

Glycerine  is  a  by-product  in  the  manufacture  of  soap.  Glycer- 
ine is  an  alcohol  and  for  this  reason  is  often  called  glycerol  when 
treated  with  a  mixture  of  concentrated  nitric  and  sulphuric  acids 
it  forms  nitroglycerine  (C3H5(ONO,)3).  This  is  a  heavy  oily  liquid, 
a  well-known  explosive  and  an  ingredient  of  other  explosives. 

When  mixed  with  infusional  earth,  fire  and  sand  and  even  saw- 
dust it  is  known  as  dynamite. 


108  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

HARD  SOAP 

1.  Stearin   (beef  or  mutton  fat)-|-Water— glycerine-|-stearic  acid. 
Stearic  acid-{-sodium  chloride=sodium  stearate,  or  (hard  soap) 

-(-Hydrochloric  acid. 

2.  Stearic  acid-|-sodium  hydroxide— hard  soap  and  water. 

SOFT  SOAP 

Stearin  (beef  or  mutton  fat)    potassium   hydroxide— soap   and 
glycerine. 

HOME  METHOD  OF  MAKING  SOAP 

Empty  the  contents  of  a  can  of  lye  into  a  stone  jar,  pour  over  it 
2%  pints  of  cold  water  and  stir  until  lye  dissolves.  Set  aside 
until  the  temperature  is  not  over  80°  F.  or  262/3°  C.  Melt  5% 
pounds  of  clean  greasy  tallow,  or  lard,  and  set  aside  until  the  tem- 
perature is  120°  F.  or  49°  C.,  slowly  pour  dissolved  lye  into  the 
grease,  stir  until  lye  and  grease  are  thoroughly  combined  and  mix- 
ture drops  from  stirrer  like  honey.  Stir  slowly  but  not  too  long, 
or  you  may  separate  the  lye;  from  5  to  15  minutes  is  enough,  ac- 
cording to  grease  and  weather.  Pour  into  a  mold,  set  away  for  a 
day  or  two,  empty  out  and  cut  up  as  desired. 

SALADS 
Vegetable  Oils 

Salads  are  divided  into  two  groups,  dinner  salads  and  the  more 
substantial  salads  served  at  supper  and  luncheon  in  the  place  of 
meats. 

Fruit  salads  are  much  out  of  place  in  the  dinner  menu  unless 
they  figure  as  the  last  course,  when  they  are  served  with  crackers, 
cheese  and  coffee.  This  is  an  unusual  custom  that  is  rapidly 
growing  in  popularity.  Fruit  salads  are  naturally  sweet,  and 
when  followed  by  a  dessert,  the  palate  is  not  apt  to  become  clogged 
with  sweet.  As  a  general  rule  sweets  and  savories  do  not  mix, 
although  occasionally  they  may  be  blended  as  currant  or  orange 
salad  with  game.  These  exceptions  must,  however,  be  introduced 
with  sparing  hands,  as  they  often  strike  a  discordant  note. 

The  heavy  salad,  swathed  with  mayonnaise  or  boiled  dressing, 
is  entirely  out  of  place  at  dinner,  because  it  overloads  the  menu 
with  fat.  Only  those  salads  of  green  vegetables  should  be  selected, 
like  lettuce,  beets  and  cabbage,  tomatoes  and  cress,  asparagus,  etc., 
French  dressing  with  variations  alone  being  suitable. 


Fats  and  Butter  Substitutes  109 

Heavy  salads  fit  into  light  luncheon  better  than  into  any  other 
meals,  and  may  often  form  the  main  dish,  while  a  fruit  salad  is 
always  acceptable  in  place  of  dessert. 

Salads  are  of  exceeding  importance  in  metabolism. 

The  green  vegetables  and  fruits  contain  the  so-called  inorganic 
elements  as  mineral  salts,  which  must  exist  in  the  body  and  take 
part  in  functions  in  at  least  three  different  ways:  (1)  as  the  con- 
stituents which  give  rigidity  and  comparative  permanence  to  the 
skeleton;  (2)  as  essential  elements  of  the  protoplasm  of  the 
active  tissues;  (3)  as  salts  held  in  solution  in  the  fluids  of  the  body, 
giving  these  fluids  their  characteristic  influence  upon  the  elasticity 
and  irritability  of  muscle  and  nerve  supplying  the  material  for 
the  acidity  or  alkalinity  of  the  digestive  juices  and  other  secre- 
tions and  yet  maintaining  the  neutrality  of  slight  alkalesence  of 
the  internal  fluids  as  well  as  their  osmotic  pressure  and  solvent 
power. 

Left  over  greens,  vegetables,  string  beans,  peas,  carrots,  turnips, 
cauliflower,  cooked  spinach,  beets  and  leeks  may  take  their  place 
in  the  dinner  salad.  Use  them  mixed,  alone,  or  as  a  garnish  for 
lettuce. 

The  oil  used  in  the  salad  dressings  has  much  food  value.  It  is 
a  heat  and  energy  producing  substance. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

2  eggs    (yolks),  1  tsp.  salt, 

2  cups  Mazola  oil,  1  tsp.  mustard, 

2  tbsp.  vinegar,  Dash  cayenne. 
Juice  of  1  lemon, 

Set  the  mixing  bowl  in  a  pan  of  chopped  ice  and  have  ingredi- 
ents very  cold. 

Mix  the  seasonings  and  add  to  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs. 
Beat  with  a  small  wooden  spoon  or  silver  fork.  At  first  add  the 
oil  drop  by  drop,  beating  vigorously.  When  too  thick  to  beat,  add 
1  teaspoonful  vinegar.  Continue  to  add  the  oil  slowly,  alternating 
with  the  vinegar  and  the  lemon  juice  until  at  least  ^  cup  of  oil 
has  been  added.  Onion  juice  may  be  added  if  desired. 

If  the  oil  is  added  too  rapidly  the  dressing  separates  and  has  a 
curdled  appearance.  This  should  never  happen  if  the  oil  is  added 
very  slowly  at  first;  but  in  case  it  does,  put  the  yolk  of  another 
egg  into  a  clean  bowl  and  beat  in  the  curdled  dressing  slowly. 


110  i         "Win  the   WW   Cook  Book 

After  a  half  cup  of  oil  has  been  added  the  dressing  may  be  beaten 
with  a  Dover  egg  beater  and  the  oil  added  more  rapidly. 

NORWEGIAN  MAYONNAISE 

Add  a  tablespoonful  of  anchovy  paste  to  a  half  pint  of  mayon- 
naise dressing,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  ten  drops 
of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  2  drops  of  Tabasco.  Use  with  broiled 
or  fried  fish. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

l/z  tsp.  salt,  1       tbsp.  vinegar   (malt  or 

%  tsp.  white  pepper,  Tarragon   preferred), 

Dash  paprika,  3  tbsp.  Mazola  or  other  veg.  oil. 

Mix  the  seasonings  and  stir  into  the  oil.  Add  the  vinegar  and 
beat  vigorously  till  the  mixture  thickens  slightly. 

Green  salads  should  be  dressed  at  the  time  of  serving.  The 
flavor  is  improved  if  the  bowl  in  which  the  salad  is  arranged  is 
rubbed  with  a  clove  of  garlic  or  slice  of  onion. 

A— 1   SALAD  DRESSING 

Mix  %  teaspoonful  of  freshly  ground  pepper,  ^  teaspoonful  salt 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  prepared  mustard.  Then  stir  in  4  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  Mazola,  and  when  blended,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  claret. 

Serve  it  on  any  plain  salad  of  lettuce,  or  a  mixture  of  lettuce, 
chives  and  cucumbers.  The  lettuce  should  be  washed  several  times, 
drained  and  wrapped  in  a  napkin  and  laid  on  the  ice  until  chilled 
and  crisp.  Do  not  slice  the  cucumbers  nor  chop  the  chives  until 
just  before  serving. 

Put  the  salad  into  a  bowl  in  any  preferred  way,  the  lettuce  ar- 
ranged like  an  open  head  with  a  sprinkling  of  chives  and  a  border 
of  sliced  cucumbers  overlapping,  or  have  the  cucumbers  diced  and 
heaping  in  the  center  and  the  lettuce  for  a  border.  Add  the  dress- 
ing when  serving,  as  the  vegetables  wilt  quickly  after  the  dressing 
is  blended  with  them. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  beat  in  gradually  %  cup  Mazola  or 
other  vegetable  oil.  Add  a/4  teaspoonful  salt,  dash  of  paprika  and 
%  cup  boiling  water.  Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until 
thick,  adding  gradually  the  juice  of  Vz  lemon.  Chill  before  using. 
Serve  with  fish,  or  a  fish  salad. 


Fats  and  Butter  Substitutes  111 

SAUCE  TARTARE 

Make  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  using  Tarragon  vinegar.  To  each 
cup  of  dressing  add  1  shallot,  or  small  onion,  chopped  fine,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  finely  chopped  capers,  olives  and  cucumber  pickles, 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley  and  %  teaspoonful  powdered  Tar- 
ragon. 

GREEN  MAYONNAISE 

This  is  used  frequently  for  apple  salad,  and  is  made  by  adding 

2  or  3  drops  of  apple  coloring  to  ordinary  mayonnaise,  or  it  may 
be  colored  by  adding  finely  chopped  parsley  rubbed  to  a  paste. 

ITALIAN  DRESSING 

Rub  the  mixing  bowl  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  add  the  salt,  Tabasco 
sauce,  a  teaspoonful  of  tomato  catsup  and  stir  until  well  mixed. 
Add  6  tablespoonfuls  of  Wessen  oil  or  other  vegetable  oil,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  grape  or  Tarragon  vinegar;  beat  thoroughly  and  pour 
at  once  over  sliced  tomatoes  on  lettuce  leaves.  Serve  with  fried  or 
broiled  fish  or  lobster  cutlets. 

WALDORF  SALAD 

2  cups  hard  tart  apples  1  cup  celery  (cut  fine), 

(chopped),  1  cup  English  walnuts  (chopped). 

Mix  with  French  dressing  or  mayonnaise  dressing  made  of 
vegetable  oils. 

COMBINATION  FRUIT  SALAD 

1  grape  fruit,  1  banana, 

2  oranges,  1  cup  Malaga  grapes. 

Pare  the  oranges  and' grape  fruit  and  remove  from  pulp  in  sec- 
tions, slice  the  banana  and  cut  grapes  in  half  and  remove  seeds. 
Mix  with  %  cup  sugar  and  set  on  ice  for  %  hour.  Arrange  on  let- 
tuce leaves  and  put  a  tablesponful  of  mayonnaise  on  the  top  of 
each  salad. 

CHERRY   SALAD 

Stone  carefully  large  red  cherries,  arrange  them  neatly  on  crisp 
lettuce  leaves,  pour  over  French  dressing  made  of  vegetable  oil 
and  serve. 


112  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD 

Pare  the  grape  fruit,  remove  the  white  skin,  and  with  a  sharp 
knife  take  out  the  carpels,  keeping  them  whole.  Dish  on  Ro- 
maine  or  lettuce  leaves,  baste  with  French  dressing  and  serve. 

CELERY  AND  GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD 

Cut  the  fruit  in  thirds  lengthwise,  remove  the  pulp  and  cup  up 
with  an  equal  amount  of  crisp  celery.  Refill  the  shells  with  this 
mixture  and  garnish  with  celery  tips.  Serve  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

DATE  SALAD 

1/2  lb.  dates,  ^  cup    chopped   walnuts   or    pe- 

2       slices  pineapple,  cans. 

ORANGE  AND   SMALL   ONION   SALAD 

Slice  oranges  and  place  small  slices  of  tiny  onions  on  the  orange. 
Serve  with  French  dressing. 

PINEAPPLE   AND   CHEESE   SALAD 

Place  large-sized  slices  of  canned  pineapple  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves  and  cover  pineapple  with  Star  Brand  White  Cheese  or  Neuf- 
chatel  cheese  forced  through  the  potato  ricer,  and  serve  with 
French  dressing.  Garnish  with  olives  or  Maraschino  cherries. 

WHITE  SALAD 

%  cup  chopped  celery,  4  tsp.  gelatine, 

%  cup  shredded  cabbage,  2  tsp.  lemon  juice, 

Vz  cup  nut  meats,  2  tsp.  sugar, 

2  slices  pimento,  2  tsp.  salt. 
2       cups  water, 

Make  a  liquid  lemon  jelly,  add  celery,  cabbage,  nuts  and  pimen- 
tos, mold,  serve  on  white  lettuce  leaf  with  white  salad  dressing. 
In  absence  of  white  lettuce,  salad  may  be  garnished  with  parsley, 
cabbage  leaf  or  celery. 

BANANA  SALAD 

3  bananas,  Vz  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Peel  bananas,  cut  in  halves  and  fourths  and  place  2  pieces  on 
crisp  lettuce  leaves,  and  sprinkle  ground  nuts  over  bananas  and 
serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 


Fats  and  Butter  Substitutes  113 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD 

Dish  a  bunch  of  well-boiled  asparagus  on  a  cold  platter,  pour 
over  French  dressing  and  serve. 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD 

Arrange  carefully  cooked  string  beans  over  lettuce  leaves.  Pour 
over  carefully  prepared  Italian  salad  dressing  and  use  at  once. 

CABBAGE  SALAD 

Cut  a  hard  head  of  cabbage  into  halves  and  then  with  a  cabbage 
cutter  or  sharp  knife  shred  fine  the  desired  quantity.  Cover  with 
ice  water  and  soak  for  two  hours,  changing  the  water  once  or 
twice.  At  serving  time,  shake  and  dry  cabbage  in  a  towel,  toss  it 
lightly  in  the  salad  bowl.  Pour  over  a  well-made  French  dressing. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  serve  at  once.  This  is  one  of  the  nicest  of  all 
the  winter  dinner  salads.  Chopped  celery  or  celery  seed  may  be 
added  as  preferred. 

CHIFFONADE  SALAD 

This  salad  is  made  by  mixing  all  green  vegetables  in  season,  and 
is  frequently  called  "The  French  Salad."  Lettuce,  dandelion, 
chicory,  a  little  chopped  beet,  chopped  celery,  a  bit  of  tomato  are 
mixed  and  covered  with  French  dressing.  The  dressing  is  usually 
flavored  both  with  onion  and  garlic. 

BOHEMIAN   SALAD 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  salad  bowl  with  crisp  Romaine  or  let- 
tuce; arrange  over  the  alternate  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg  and 
boiled  beets.  Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  onion,  cover  with 
Italian  or  French  dressing,  toss  and  serve. 

LETTUCE   SALAD   WITH   CHEESE  BALLS 

2       pkgs.  Neufchatel  cheese,  tbsp.    pecans,    chopped, 

*/&  tsp.  onion  juice,  ^  tsp.  salt, 

2       tbsp.  lemon  juice,  %  tsp.  paprika. 
1       tbsp.  parsley, 

Mix  all  the  seasonings  with  the  cheese,  make  into  small  balls 
with  butter  paddles  and  serve  with  head  lettuce  covered  with 
French  dressing.  For  variation  do  not  put  the  parsley  into  the 


114  "Win  the   Wo  r"   Cook  Book 

balls,  but  chop  more  of  it  very  fine  and  roll  the  balls  in  it  very 
lightly. 

GREEN  PEPPER  AND  PIMENTO  CHEESE  SALAD 

Stuff  green  peppers  with  pimento  cheese,  slice  and  lay  on  let- 
tuce leaves,  serve  with  French  dressing. 

SWEETBREADS   SALAD 

Plunge  a  pair  of  sweetbreads  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  they 
come  from  the  market,  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Drain  and  put  into 
salted  boiling  water  to  which  has  been  added  V2  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar  and  cook  slowly  20  minutes.  Again  drain  and  plunge 
into  cold  water,  that  they  may  be  kept  white  and  firm.  Cut  in 
cubes  and  mix  with  an  equal  measure  of  cucumber  cut  in 
cubes.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  and  moisten 
with  dressing.  Arrange  in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves.  For  the  dress- 
ing beat  Vz  cup  of  heavy  cream  until  almost  stiff,  using  an  egg 
beater.  Add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  very  slowly,  continuing 
the  beating  until  mixture  is  stiff;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
paprika. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

Use  by  measure  twice  as  much  chicken  as  celery.  Cut  the 
chicken  in  small  cubes;  do  not  chop  it,  and  mix  with  French  dress- 
ing. When  ready  to  serve  drain,  add  celery  and  mix  with  mayon- 
naise dressing.  If  boiled  dressing  be  used,  mix  the  chicken  with 
part  of  that,  adding  more  when  ready  to  serve.  Mayonnaise 
dressing  can  be  used  alone  without  French  dressing  if  preferred. 

FISH  SALAD 

Remove  skin  and  bone  from  1  can  salmon.  Mix  with  ^  cup 
finely  cut  celery  and  hard  cooked  eggs  and  cooked  salad  dressing, 
or  mayonnaise,  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce. 

LOBSTER  SALAD 

Mix  cold  boiled  lobster  with  nicely  seasoned  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing, and  serve  on  lettuce. 

CRAB  SALAD 

Mix  crab  flake  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. 


Fats  and  Butter  Substitutes  115 

POTATO  SALAD 

4  medium-sized  cold  boiled  po-       4  hard  cooked  eggs, 
tatoes,  1  red  onion. 

Cut  potatoes  into  small,  thin  slices,  add  chopped  onion  and  egg 
cut  in  quarters  and  sliced,  moisten  well  with  cooked  salad  dressing, 
to  which  cream  has  been  added.  Serve  on  lettuce  and  garnish  with 
slices  of  egg. 

TOMATOES  EN  SURPRISE 

Peel  small,  solid  tomatoes,  cut  off  the  stem  and  remove  the  core 
and  seeds.  Fill  the  tomato  with  crab  flakes,  put  over  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon  juice  and  turn  them  upside  down  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves,  cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  send  to  the  table. 
Sardines  may  be  substituted  for  crab  flake. 


TOMATO  ASPEC  JELLY 

Stew  1  quart  can  of  tomatoes  until  soft,  cutting  and  mashing 
the  pulp  to  hasten  the  process.  Flavor  by  stewing  with  them  ^ 
teaspoonful  of  mixed  whole  spices,  2  level  teaspoonfuls  of  celery 
salt  and  1  small  Bermuda  onion.  Strain  the  tomato  through  puree 
strainer,  and,  if  needed,  add  boiling  water  to  make  2  cups  of 
juice.  Have  ready  Vz  box  of  gelatine  soaked  in  ^  cup  of  cold 
water  until  soft.  Heat  the  tomato  juice  to  boiling  and  add  the 
soaked  gelatine,  stir  until  dissolved  and  strain  it  through  fine 
cheese  cloth.  Pour  it  into  ring  mold,  or  into  small  cups  or  fancy 
molds,  which  have  been  first  wet  in  cold  water.  Chill,  and  when 
firm  and  ready  to  serve,  turn  out  on  a  nest  of  lettuce  leaves  and 
spread  on  top  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD 

Peel  medium-sized  tomatoes,  remove  thin  slice  from  top  of  each, 
take  out  seeds  and  part  of  pulp,  sprinkle  inside  with  salt.  Fill 
tomatoes  with  pineapple,  cut  in  small  cubes  or  shredded,  and  nut 
meats,  using  %  pineapple  and  ^3  nut  meats.  Mix  with  mayon- 
naise dressing,  garnish  with  mayonnaise,  halves  of  nut  meats  and 
slices  cut  from  tops,  cut  square.  Serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

Any  of  the  following  mixtures  may  be  substituted  for  the  pine- 
apple and  nuts: 


116  "Win  the   War"  Cook  Book 

Cubes  of  cucumber  with  tomato  pulp  mixed  with  boiled  salad 
dressing  or  mayonnaise.  Apple  and  celery  mixed  with  any  salad 
dressing.  Shredded  cabbage  and  green  pepper  mixed  with  boiled 
dressing  or  mayonnaise. 

K.  S.  A.  C. 

FROZEN  TOMATO 

2%  cups  tomato  juice,  3  bay  leaves, 

8       pepper  corns,  6  cloves. 

l1/^  tsp.  salt, 

Add  spices  to  tomato,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  boil  1  minute.  Press 
through  a  sieve  and  freeze  as  an  ice.  Serve  with  boiled  salad 
dressing  or  mayonnaise. 

K.  S.  A.  C.  Cook  Book. 

SOY  BEAN  SALAD 

One  cup  soy  beans  cooked  and  drained.  Add  one  small  onion 
chopped,  4  small  sour  pickles,  paprika  and  celery  seed,  or  %  cup 
chopped  celery.  Serve  with  a  boiled  dressing. 


Sugar  Substitutes 

Americans  eat  more  sugar  than  other  folks  do;  more  than  is 
really  good  for  them.  We  have  been  using  4  ounces  a  piece  daily, 
other  people  half  as  much,  and  now  our  allies  are  down  to  I  ounce 
a  day  or  less. 

One  ounce  a  day  (2  tablespoonfuls  or  6  teaspoonfuls),  that  is 
all  it  takes  to  make  a  stock  of  1,185,000  tons  this  year  for  our 
army  and  our  allies.  Saving  that  ounce  a  day  is  part  of  your  war 
service. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 
Your  principal  way  of  substituting  for  sugar  is  the  diet. 

1.  All  the  ripe  fruits  contain  sugar.     The  amount  varies  from 
about  3  ounces  or  6  tablespoonfuls  per  pound  in  fresh  figs  and 
plums  to  about  Vz  ounce  per  pound  in  watermelon. 

2.  Dried  fruits:    If  the  water  is  driven  off  from  fruits  as  in  the 
drying  process,  the  sugar  becomes  more  condensed  than  it  is  in 
fresh  fruits. 

3.  Syrup  may  replace  sugar  in  most  recipes;  give  the  children 
syrup,   honey,   molasses,   preserves.     It   is   better  for  them   than 
candy. 

Sorghum   molasses    l1/^  cups  is  equiv.  1  cup  sugar. 

Corn  molasses   1^  cups  is  equiv.  1  cup  sugar. 

Honey    1^5  cups  is  equiv.  1  cup  sugar. 

Maple  syrup  iy2  cups  is  equiv.  1  cup  sugar. 

4.  Add  more  salt  to  cereals  in  cooking  them.     This  saves   the 
amount  of  sweetening  necessary  at  time  of  serving. 

Note:  1.  When  using  honey  in  place  of  molasses  in  any  re- 
cipe, use  less  soda,  according  to  the  acid  in  the  honey.  When  in 
doubt  use  less.  2.  Do  not  substitute  vegetable  syrups  or 
preserves  in  the  regular  diet  of  the  child.  These  are  lacking  in 
vitamines  or  "growth  determiners,"  which  are  absolutely  vital  to 
the  physical  development  of  the  child.  Butter,  eggs  and  fresh 
fruits  are  rich  in  vitamines  and  are  essential.  3.  To  replace  1 
cup  sugar  by  P/4  cups  molasses,  subtract  */4  cup  from  the  liquid 
called  for  in  the  recipe.  See  table  of  syrups  composition  and 
apply  to  other  syrups. 

To  test  the  stages  of  syrups  in  candy  cooking. 

These  tests  are  made  by  dropping  a  small  portion  of  the  syrup 


118  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

into  cold  water.  Each  stage  or  test  corresponds  to  a  definite  tem- 
perature as  indicated  by  the  thermometer. 

Soft  Ball — When  mixture  will  make  up  into  soft  ball,  236°  F.  or 
113°  C. 

Hard  Ball — When  mixture  forms  a  firm,  or  rather  hard,  ball, 
230°  F.  or  123°  C. 

Soft  Crack — When  mixture  becomes  crisp  and  too  hard  to  form 
a  ball,  260°  F.  or  127°  C. 

Hard  Crack — When  mixture  will  crack  or  break  when  crushed 
between  fingers,  290°  F.  or  143°  C. 

Caramel — A  fifth  stage  is  known  as  the  caramel  stage.  This 
may  be  reached  by  boiling  the  syrup  beyond  the  hard  crack  stage 
or  by  melting  dry  sugar  over  direct  heat.  The  test  for  this 
stage  is  a  golden  color,  348°  F.  or  176°  C. 


EAT  LESS  SUGAR 
Mary  E.  Robinson 
Missouri  University 

The  average  American  eats  approximately  90  pounds  of  sugar 
a  year.  This  includes  not  only  the  amount  eaten  at  the  regular 
meals,  but  also  that  taken  between  meals  in  the  forms  of  candy, 
cakes,  ice  creams  and  soft  drinks. 

Sugar  is  used  as  a  source  of  energy  for  the  body.  When  eaten 
in  excess,  it  tends  to  ferment  and  cause  digestive  disturbances. 
The  average  amount  of  sugar  which  may  be  eaten  by  an  adult  per 
day  is  four  tablespoonfuls  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  honey,  3% 
tablespoonfuls  of  syrup  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses.  How- 
ever, soldiers  on  long  marches,  athletes  or  school  children  may  use 
more  sugar  in  the  diet  than  less  active  persons  of  the  same  size 
and  weight.  In  the  case  of  children  there  is  danger  that  in  eating 
too  much  sugar,  especially  in  the  form  of  candy,  the  appetite  will 
be  dulled  for  more  wholesome  foods  and  a  lack  of  mineral  matter 
in  the  diet  will  result. 

The  following  table  gives  the  composition  of  the  sugars  and 
syrups  in  common  use: 


Sugar    Substitutes 


119 


O 


i.    'S. 

~    Os 


•u  o 
fi  ° 
^  r- 


0) 


o 
o 


l-O 

o\ 


o- 
o 


O\ 


O 

OO 


OO 


04 


OO 


OO 


oo 
VO 


o 


o 
O 

r<~j 


00 


>-o 


O 


t-n 

O 


q 
4- 


(J 

3 
*T3 

2 
cu 


O 

O 

ft, 


OS 

6 


o 


LO 


oo 


oo 


a 


C 
rt 

IH 

O 


OS 

3 

GO 


C 

£ 


Ui 

03 

bO 

3 

CO 


^ 

O 

Q- 


U, 

cti 


C^! 


o         ^w 
CX 

OS  ^ 

S         S 


<u 

d 

CJ 


w 
W 
en 


CTS 

bo 

3 


>, 

(72 


ir 

>. 


- 

bO 

k 

O 

oo 


120  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

SUGGESTIVE  METHODS   FOR  THE  CONSERVATION  OF 

SUGAR 

1.  No  adult  should  eat  more  than  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  per 
day.    A  part  of  this  amount  may  be  in  the  form  of  honey,  syrup  or 
any  other  sweet. 

2.  Reduce  to  a  minimum  the  amount  of  sugar  used  in  beverages. 
Many  beverages   are   served   sweeter  than  they  need  to  be,   and 
sugar  is  often  left  in  the  cup  or  glass  in  which  they  are  served. 

3.  If  cereals    are    prepared     carefully,   salted    and    thoroughly 
cooked,  they  will  be  palatable  without  the  addition  of  sugar.    If  the 
sweet  taste  is  desired,  sweeten  the  cereals  with  fruit,  rather  than 
sugar.      (Ex.  oatmeal  and  raisins  or  dates.) 

4.  Use  recipes  calling  for  less  sugar,  especially  for  cakes  and 
other   desserts;    substitutes,    corn    syrup,    sorghum,    honey,    apple 
syrup,  and  other  fruit  syrups  for  the  sugar. 

5.  Use  more  fresh,  dried  and  canned  fruits  and  less  sugar  will 
be  desired. 

6.  Omit  rich,  heavy  desserts  requiring  sugar,  such  as  puddings 
with  rich  sauces,  iced  cakes,  sugar  pies,  etc. 

7.  When  sugar  is  craved,  eat  fruits  instead  of  candy,  ice  cream 
and  soft  drinks.     Fruits  will  be  better  for  the  body  and  the  sub- 
stitution will  render  a  patriotic  service. 

8.  Give  children  fruit,  fruit  juice,  fruit  breads  and  fruit  cookies 
instead  of  candy  and  rich  cake. 

SUGARLESS  CANDIES 

It  is  almost  impossible  for  American  people  to  break  them- 
selves of  the  candy-eating  habit.  Therefore,  at  this  time,  some 
form  of  confection  should  be  substituted  which  requires  little  or 
no  sugar. 

The  following  sugarless  recipes  are  suggested: 

STUFFED  DATES 

Remove  seed  by  splitting  the  fruit  lengthwise.  Fill  the  center 
with  chopped  nut  meats  or  cherries  and  wrap  in  oiled  paper. 

FRUIT  SQUARES 

Run   equal   parts   of   figs,   raisins    and   dates    through   the   food 


Suyar    Substil/ilf*  121 

chopper.     Add   ^  the  amount  of  cocoanut  or  nuts.     Moisten  with 
orange  juice.     Shape  into  balls  or  squares. 

These  may  be  dipped  into  melted  chocolate  or  not,  as  desired. 
Dried  peaches,  apricots  or  prunes  may  be  substituted  for  fruits 
given  above. 

DRIED   PINEAPPLE 

Peel  fruit  and  slice  crosswise  in  very  thin  slices.  Place  in  oven, 
the  door  of  which  is  left  open,  or  in  a  drying  rack  over  the  stove. 
Dry  as  for  apples. 

SYRUP  OR  MOLASSES  TAFFY 

3  cups  syrup  or  sorghum,  1  tsp.  vinegar. 

1  tbsp.  butter, 

Cook  syrup  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  when  dropped  in  cold 
water.  Add  one  tablespoonful  strong  vinegar  for  flavoring.  Pour 
on  cold  buttered  or  oiled  platter.  Allow  to  cool  until  it  can  easily 
be  handled  and  pull  until  light. 

CARAMELS 

2  cups  sorghum  or  Karo  Vz  cup   cream   or   condensed 

syrup,  milk, 

l1/^  squares  chocolate,  2       tbsp.  vinegar. 

Cook  until  it  forms  a  firm  ball  in  cold  water.  Pour  on  buttered 
pan,  and  when  cut  in  squares  wrap  in  wax  paper. 

FRUIT   PASTE 

Put  through  the  meat  chopper  enough  cherry,  peach  or  quince 
preserves  to  make  Vz  pint  with  the  juice.  Heat  fruit  and  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  previously  softened  in  a  very  little  cold 
water.  Stir  well  and  continue  stirring  until  it  begins  to  cool  and 
thicken,  then  pour  into  oiled  dish  to  make  a  layer  1  inch  thick. 
Let  dry  slowly,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  place  in  box  with  waxed 
paper  between  layers.  A  mixture  of  dried  apricots  and  soaked  over 
night  in  enough  water  to  cover  may  be  used  for  this  paste.  Pour 
off  water,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  pour  over  apricots,  and  let  stand  until 
cool.  Put  apricots  and  dates  through  meat  chopper  and  proceed 
with  the  proportions  above. 


122  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

PASTE   BONBONS 

Soak  1  ounce  of  gelatine  in  %  cup  of  water,  add  to  hot  syrup; 
makes  2  cups  hot  corn  syrup.  Take  from  fire,  add  2  teaspoonfuls 
each  of  lemon  and  orange  juice  and  1  of  rum  or  brandy,  and  if 
for  mint  bonbons,  add  also  2  teaspoonfuls  of  creme  de  menthe  and 
2  drops  of  spearmint  and  color  green;  if  for  fruit,  color  pink  and 
add  Vs  cup  each  minced  candied  fruits,  pecans  or  almonds.  Turn 
into  a  wet  pan  %  of  an  inch  thick,  put  on  ice  and  in  12  hours  turn 
out  on  board  dusted  with  powdered  sugar.  Cut  in  squares  and 
roll  in  sugar. 

BITTER  SWEETS 

An  attractive  variety  of  candies  may  be  made  by  dipping  sweet 
fruits  in  bitter  chocolate.  Use  for  this  purpose  dates,  citron, 
candied  orange  peel  or  crystallized  fruit.  Melt  unsweetened  choco- 
late in  double  boiler.  Keep  the  chocolate  just  warm  enough  to 
prevent  solidifying.  With  a  fork  drop  pieces  of  fruit  in  chocolate. 
See  that  each  piece  is  completely  coated,  then  remove  to  waxed 
paper  to  harden. 

OLD-FASHIONED  MOLASSES  CANDY 

2  cups  molasses,  %  tsp.  baking  powder, 

1  tbsp.  vinegar,  1       tsp.  vanilla  or  ginger  extract. 

2  tbsp.  (1  ounce)  butter  sub., 

Put  molasses,  vinegar  and  butter  into  a  sauce  pan,  bring  to  a 
boiling  point  and  boil,  stirring  all  the  time  until  the  mixture  is 
brittle  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Stir  in  baking  powder  and 
extract  and  pour  into  buttered  tin.  When  nearly  cold,  pull  until 
glossy.  Cut  into  small  pieces  and  lay  on  a  buttered  plate  or  wrap 
in  waxed  paper.  Sufficient  for  1  pound  of  candy. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE 

2  cups  New  Orleans  molasses,      1  cup  roasted  peanuts. 

Cook  molasses  until  it  cracks  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  car- 
amel stage;  have  ready  the  peanuts  rolled  fine,  stir  in,  pour  on 
oiled  marble  slab,  roll  with  flat  blade  of  knife  as  it  cools;  this 
should  harden  in  the  thin  sheets. 


Sugar    Substitutes  123 

POPCORN  CANDY 

1  cup  syrup,  1  tbsp.  vinegar. 

2  qts.  of  popped  corn, 

Boil  together  the  syrup  and  vinegar  until  it  hardens  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Pour  over  freshly  popped  corn  and  mold 
into  balls  or  fancy  shapes  for  the  Christmas  tree.  Little  pop- 
corn men  will  please  the  children.  Mark  in  the  features  and  out- 
lines with  melted  chocolate. 

Either  honey,  maple  syrup,  molasses,  white  cane  syrup  or  corn 
syrup  may  be  used. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

PLAIN  HONEY  TAFFY 

1  cup   sugar,  ^  cup  water, 

1  cup  honey,  1       tsp.  vanilla. 

Boil  the  honey  and  sugar  together  until  the  mixture  makes  a 
hard  ball  in  cold  water  (270°  F.).  Add  vanilla  or  other  flavor  if 
desired.  Put  in  a  buttered  dish  to  cool  and  pull  until  white.  If 
the  pan  the  honey  is  cooked  in  is  buttered  around  the  top  the 
honey  will  not  boil  over  on  the  stove.  It  is  possible  to  vary  these 
proportions  widely  and  always  get  a  delicious  taffy. 

HONEY  CANDY  WITH  PEANUTS 

2  cups  honey,  1  cup  boiling  water, 

1  cup  butter,  Pinch  salt. 

Boil  to  a  hard  ball,  and  pour  over  layer  of  rolled  peanuts  which 
have  been  scattered  evenly  over  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pan. 
When  nearly  cold,  mark  off  in  long  strips  and  roll  up  tight,  then 
slice  across  with  a  sharp  knife  before  it  gets  quite  cold.  This  re- 
cipe may  be  varied  by  adding  1  or  2  cups  of  sugar  when  it  has 
cooled  slightly;  stir  in  1  or  2  teaspoonfuls  peanut  butter  to  suit 
taste,  keep  stirring  until  creamy,  pour  into  buttered  pan,  mark  in 
squares. 

HONEY  BUTTER  SCOTCH 

3  h.  tsp.  butter,  2  cups  honey, 

i/4  tsp.  soda,  2  tsp.  lemon  extract, 

2  tbsp.   vinegar,  2  cups  brown  sugar. 

Boil  the  honey,  butter  and  vinegar  until  it  hardens  when  dropped 


124  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

into  water  (270°  F.),  stir  in  the  soda  and  extract;  pour  in  buttered 
tins  to  cool. 

HONEY   CHOCOLATE   CARAMELS 

Vz  lb.  cocoa,  %  lb.  pecan  nuts, 

2       cups  honey,  Ibs.  sweet  almonds. 

1      tsp.  vanilla, 

Cut  the  nuts  fine  and  boil  them  with  other  ingredients  until 
thick  (260°  F.),  cool  and  roll  out,  cut  in  squares  and  dry  in  oven. 

CHOCOLATE   HONEY  TAFFY 

1  piece  chocolate,  inch  square,         l/^  cup  sugar, 
1  cup  honey,  1       tsp.  vanilla. 

Boil  until  it  makes  a  hard  ball  in  cold  water  (270°  F.).  Add 
vanilla  and  put  in  a  buttered  dish  to  cool.  Pull  until  light. 

CAKES 

Bake  only  those  cakes  in  which  syrup  may  be  substituted  for 
sugar.  Vegetable  fat  or  oil  for  butter.  A  part  other  cereal  flours 
for  wheat  flour. 

Do  not  use  frostings  unless  you  can  make  them  without  sugar. 

The  following  table  was  worked  out  by  Mary  E.  Robinson  in 
Missouri  University. 

This  standard  recipe  may  be  varied  by  adding  3  squares  of 
chocolate  to  make  a  devil's  food  cake,  or  the  flavor  may  be  changed 
by  adding  spices,  nuts,  fruit,  etc. 

Mary  E.  Robinson, 
University  of  Missouri. 

Note:  Remember  that  any  cake  or  other  food  containing  molas- 
ses is  very  apt  to  burn  rapidly.  A  moderate  oven  is  one  that  will 
brown  a  paper  a  cinnamon  brown  in  5  minutes. 


Sugar    Substitutes 


125 


Si 

CD 

O 

CO 

f   ' 

cx 

CO 

CO 

OH 
CO 

o, 

PL. 

CS 

Ct 

CN 

CM 

CN 

pq 

CJ    aS  ^3 

O              M 

^jHH     rt 

O           co 

«         •      OH 

w 

2 

OH 

OH 

3 

OH 

OH 

OH 

cu    3 

5  S  ° 

^ 

*3 

3 

0 

CJ 

CJ 

0 

^    cS    o 

< 

I—  1 

\ 

\ 

\ 

CO 

CO      fe 

^  cu  5 

w 

C< 

T*" 

"<*• 

CJ 

nS  *Tj    O 

fc 

O           *-* 
<U    (-^  *^ 

CH 

^->  ^^      CO 

iS 

CO 

co 

co 

co 

CO 

>  "^  £ 

<1 

bo 
•**•       bo 

bO 

•^       bo 

bo 
^        bo 

bO 
^        bo 

bo 
•*        bo 

ji  «  c 

fk 

co 

co           ^ 

co           *> 

co           v 

co         V 

co          V 

as    "^  """ 

P 

CUD 
tu 

$1    (-    CJ 
•^   O'n 

*~^                   <~  - 

^         ^ 

5  °^ 

^_  i                ^-^ 

%  ^  JJ 

CJ    ^"° 

^        ^-a  >? 

Q 

« 

N 

t      ^     s 

s 

S        •      60  0    2 
3     ^    ».S   S 

••M 

^    a    rt     TJ 

L_4 

bO    o      a,    CJ    o 

^j 

I-H        1          1             flj     ^H         CO 

O.       J     1         ^t 

•? 

hH     ^4    *-•     3 

co          rt 

HN 

a  3  -"  o 

P 

fc 

a 

3 

IH 

«o    bo 

p.  co 

co    Cl 

OH    g 

CO 

OH 

3  2 

l« 

CO 
OH    CJ 

OH      3       °     3     £ 

_  c-j     1  1    *T3  "T3 

«  s  5  s*° 

w 

FH 

CJ 

hfl 

^      .«. 

cti 

QJ                      I-J      ^     4-J 

O 

CO 

\  ^3     f—l 
NT        *—  i 

(-1      W-. 

O 

\<N    U, 

TH\     O 

l-c  CO 

M 

HH 

Xffi 

SS 

t-*         4->                   -H 

*-     O   -X3.2   5     . 

^2                  OT     !-,     0     ^ 

rt    -O    nS    e  'cJ; 

TS      O     M    3    rt  .2 

l™< 

O      w      co    co    ...  13 

rf\ 

J^  -^  '"^^  o 

VJ. 

w 

H 
P 
H 

«fl 

OH 

OH 

O 

dn 

3 

OH 

O 

CU 

CJ 

3       ^^"H           ^"^     CJ                     CJ 

.p;     j-<     3  ^-j      i    o 

0         0         ^"3.^r^ 
OH      S"      O      C      CU      M 

HH 

w 

\C^ 

\CN) 

\C<] 

\CN 

\C<1 

aS     CU     aS    ^J-,         cu 

C^ 

|H\ 

rH\ 

rH\ 

1-H\ 

i—  1\ 

05 

•"-1   v^  ^  M-  '"    U 
_   ^     c—    PJJ 

-  »        ^    f  Jt        ^—/ 

P 

*^        '^             <-H         ^         ^     _— 

MXX  IM 

bo 

bO 

i        J        I       J         *T         **-• 

**-^<      ^^^      CO      fl  >      j  » 

rS  r>        r  cj 

*-•      QJ      CO 

.S  s 

•P    C    co 

_« 

4—  '                   CO 

>,co 

cu    CX  w 

r^    as    co   4-> 

(H 
3 
^ 

^    p,  CL 

*"O  •  •"•    ^ 
i    ?  i    ^"^ 

CH      fli      O 

1  4  3 

•1*3 

§3 

—  «   -j   QJ 

h 

OO 

CO      ^ 

^5    0    ^ 

3co 

t  o         co 

ffi     CO 

^^X 

CO 

CO 

X 

X 

X! 

M 

X 

XJ 

126  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

WAR  CAKES 

No   1— EGGLESS,   BUTTERLESS,   MILKLESS    CAKES 

A  good  cake  from  the  standpoint  of  thrift  when  eggs  are 
selling  at  70c  per  dozen,  butter  59c  a  pound,  milk  13c  per  quart. 

%  cup  veg.  fat  or  oil,  1  cup  sugar, 

^4  of  grated  nutmeg,  1  cup  water, 

1       tsp.  cloves,  1  cup  raisins, 

1       tsp.  cinnamon.  Pinch  salt, 

Put  all  in  sauce  pan  and  boil  3  minutes,  then  cool  and  stir  in  1 
level  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water;  add  2 
rounding  cups  of  flour  into  which  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder  has 
been  sifted.  Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Randel. 

No.  2— EGGLESS,  BUTTERLESS,  MILKLESS  AND  SUGARLESS 

1       cup  good  molasses,  1  tsp.   cinnamon, 

%  tsp.  soda,  1  tsp.  cloves, 

1  cup  hot  water,  Ginger  and  nutmeg  (small  quan- 
(Mix  with  molasses),  tity). 

Mix  thoroughly,  add  %  package  raisins,  nuts  and  other  fruits  if 
desired.  Now  mix  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter,  add  one 
teaspoonful  baking  powder  and  flour,  bake  in  loaf  in  very  slow 
oven  until  it  will  not  stick  to  straw;  should  be  eaten  while  fresh. 
The  above  recipe  is  excellent. 

No.  3— EGGLESS,  SUGARLESS,  BUTTERLESS  CAKE 

2  cups  molasses   (dark),  1  tsp.  cinnamon, 

2  tbsp.  veg.  oil,  Pinch  nutmeg  and  cloves, 
1  cup  water,  Salt. 

Boil  3  minutes.  When  cool  stir  in  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  water. 

1  box  raisins,  3  cups  flour. 

Nuts  may  be  added.     Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  Bruno, 

Wellston. 

BARLEY  AND  OATMEAL  CAKES 

%  cup  shortening,  2       level  tsp.  Rumford  baking 

%  cup  brown  sugar,  powder, 

Vz  cup  corn  syrup,  %  level  tsp.  salt, 

egg,  li/4  level  cup  rolled  oats, 

3  tbsp.  water,  y$  cup  chopped  nuts. 

METHOD:      Cream   the   shortening   and   sugar   together.      Add 


Sugar    Substitutes  127 

the  well-beaten  egg.  Add  the  syrup  and  water  alternately  with 
the  flour,  in  which  the  baking  powder  and  salt  have  been  sifted. 
Add  the  oats  and  nut  meats.  Drop  by  teaspoonful  upon  well- 
greased  baking  sheets.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  12  to  15  minutes. 
Always  bake  a  test  cookie  first  to  be  sure  the  mixture  is  the  right 
consistency. 

OATMEAL  DROPS 

%  cup  butter   sub.,  1       cup  chopped  raisins, 

2  cups   rolled   oats,  1       tsp.    soda    dissolved    well    in 

1  cup  flour,  !/£  cup  boiling  water, 

1  cup  corn  syrup,  A  pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  all  together  and  drop  on  hot  buttered  tins. 

SPECIAL    OATMEAL    CAKES 

ll/2  cups  flour.  J/4  tsp.  soda, 

Vz  cup  cooked  oatmeal,  %  tsp.  baking  powder, 

*/4  cup  sugar,  3       tbsp.  veg.  oil, 

*/4  cup  raisins,  %  tsp.  cinnamon. 

%  cup   molasses, 

Beat  molasses  and  fat  to  boiling.  Mix  with  all  the  other  in- 
gredients. Bake  in  muffin  pans  30  minutes.  This  makes  12  cakes. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

OATMEAL   COOKIES 

1       tbsp.  butter  sub.,  1       cup  flour, 

1  egg,  3       tsp.  baking  powder, 
Vz  cup  milk,  Vz  tsp.   salt, 

1A  cup  sugar,  1       tsp.   flavoring. 

ll/2  cups  oatmeal  (fine), 

Cream  together  lard,  egg  and  sugar,  add  milk,  oatmeal  and  the 
flour  to  which  the  salt  and  baking  powder  have  been  added,  add 
flavor  and  raisins  that  have  been  powdered  with  flour.  Drop  on 
an  oiled  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Elizabeth   Mount  Walker, 

5165    Cabanne. 

DATE  OATMEAL  WAFERS 

2  cups  rolled  oats,  ^  cup  shortening, 
2  cups  flour,  %  cup  sugar, 

1  tsp.  salt,  l/2  cup  water. 

Cream  shortening,  add  sugar,  water,  and  then  add  remaining 
ingredients.  Roll  out  very  thin,  cut,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


128  "Win  the   War"    Cook  Book 

CORN  MEAL  COOKIES 

%  cup  melted  fat,  6       tbsp.   sour  milk, 
l/2  cup  molasses,  ^  tsp.  soda, 

%  cup  corn  syrup,  cups  corn  meal, 

1       egg,  1       cup  wheat  flour. 

Combine  the  melted  molasses,  fat,  syrup,  beaten  egg  and  milk. 
Sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  combine  with  the  liquid.  Drop  from 
a  teaspoon  onto  a  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  15 
minutes.  This  makes  55  to  60  cookies  about  2  inches  in  diameter. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

CORN    MEAL   GINGERBREAD 

1       cup  corn  meal,  1       tsp.  cinnamon, 
1       cup  wheat  flour,  %  tsp.  cloves, 

1  tsp.   soda,  1       cup  sour  milk, 
%  tsp.  salt,  1       cup  molasses, 

2  tsp.   ginger,  2       tbsp.   shortening. 
1       egg   (omitted  if  desired), 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  Combine  the  milk,  molasses, 
melted  shortening  and  beaten  egg.  Add  the  liquid  ingredients  to 
he  dry,  stir  well.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Two  cups  of  buck- 
wheat may  be  substituted  for  the  corn  meal  in  the  above  recipe. 
This  will  have  the  characteristic  flavor  of  buckwheat.  If  it  is  too 
strong  use  only  1  cup  of  buckwheat  and  1%  cups  of  white  flour; 
21/&  cups  of  rye  flour  may  also  be  substituted.  In  using  rye  and 
white  flour  a  larger  quantity  is  necessary  because  these  flours  ab- 
sorb less  liquid  than  do  the  corn  meal  and  the  buckwheat. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 


MAPLE  GINGERBREAD 

*A  cup  shortening,  *4  cup  water, 

1  egg,  2  cups  flour, 
1  cup  maple  syrup,  ^  tsp.  soda, 

l/2  tsp.  ginger,  %  tsp.  salt. 

Cream  shortening,  add  beaten  egg,  mix  syrup  and  water  and  add 
gradually  to  the  first  mixture.  Sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  grad- 
ually. Pour  into  shallow,  greased  pans  and  bake  25-30  minutes  in 
a  moderate  hot  oven. 

Miss  Ella  D.  Rode, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  Patrick  Henry  School. 


Sugar    Substitutr*  129 

COTTONSEED  MEAL  GINGERBREAD 

1       cup  molasses,  1       tsp.  cinnamon, 

1       cup  sour  milk,  Vz   cup   fat, 

1  tsp.   soda,  1       egg, 

l1^   tsp.  baking  powder,  %   cup  cottonseed  meal, 

2  tsp.   ginger,  1%   cups  flour. 

Mix  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

BRAN  COOKIES 

3  cups  bran,  Vz  cup  veg.  oil, 
Vz  cup  sugar,                                    1       tsp.   ginger, 

%   cup  molasses,  Vz  tsp.  cinnamon, 

%   cup  milk,  Vz  tsp.  soda. 

Sift  dry  spices  with  bran  and  mix,  add  other  ingredients  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Drop  from  spoon  upon  oiled  pan.  Bake  15  min- 
utes. 

Oswego  College  War  Recipes. 

OATMEAL   ROCKS 

Put   2       cups  of   oatmeal,  %   cup    sugar, 

IVz   cups    seeded   raisins,          H  cup  corn  syrup, 
1       cup  English  walnut          1       cup  veg.  oil, 

meats  through  meat      2       well-beaten  eggs, 
grinder,   add  1       tsp.  soda, 

1       cup  black  walnut  meats,        5       tbsp.  sweet  milk, 

Vz  cup   whole  pecans,  1       tbsp.    vanilla. 

Small  quantity  flour,  if  needed, 

Drop  from  spoon  on  greased  tin,  bake  in  moderate  oven;  will 
keep  for  a  long  time  in  earthern  jar  covered. 

Federated    Clubs'    Calendar. 

COFFEE   CAKE 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  veg.  oil  or  butter  sub., 

1  cup  molasses,  1  tsp.    soda, 

1  cup  cold  coffee,  1  tsp.  baking  powder, 

1  cup  raisins,  Spices   to   taste. 

And  whole  wheat  flour   to   make   a   rather   stiff  batter. 

BARLEY  COFFEE  CAKE 

2  level  cups   sifted  barley          1       level  tsp.  round  mace  or  cin- 

flour,  namon, 

1       level  cup  sifted  white  flour,  1       cup  small  raisins, 

%  cup   sugar,  IVz   cups  milk  or  water, 
1       level  tsp.   salt,  tbsp.  melted   veg.  fat  or  oil, 

4%  level  tsp.  baking  powder,  1       egg. 


130  "Win  the   War"  Cook  Book 

METHOD:  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  3  times,  add  the  raisins, 
milk,  egg  and  shortening  and  mix  thoroughly.  Place  in  shallow 
pans,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  let  stand  undisturbed 
5  minutes.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  20  minutes.  This  will 
fill  3  twelve-inch  pans. 

CINNAMON  CRUMB  CAKE 

2       cups  flour,  %  tsp.  salt, 

8       level  tsp.  baking  powder,  tbsp.  veg.  oil    (Mazola), 

&  cup  water  and  %  cup  milk     2V2  tbsp.  sugar, 
(enough  to  make  a  very 
stiff   dough), 

Mix  dry  ingredients  thoroughly,  then  add  oil  and  mix  again. 
Finally  add  liquid  and  put  in  oven  to  bake  20  minutes.  To  make 
the  crumb  covering,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon  and  enough  Mazola  to  make  it  easy  to 
spread. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Eggebrecht. 

CORNFLAKE   COOKIES 

2%  cups  corn   flakes,  1       cup  sugar, 

1       cup  ground  peanuts,  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

Add  2  parts  together,  add  peanuts,  then  cornflakes;  work  it 
slowly;  make  balls  and  drop  on  buttered  pans.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
10  minutes.  Put  under  broiler  flame  a  second  to  brown. 

Mrs.   0.  K.  Bovard. 

INDIAN   MEAL   DOUGHNUTS 

%  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  ^well  beaten, 

l1^  cups  very  fine  white  corn  1  tsp.  cinnamon, 

meal,  2  tsp.  baking  powder, 

iy2  cups  wheat  flour,  1  level  tsp.  salt, 

%  cup  Crisco   (veg.  oil),  1  cup    corn    syrup. 

Put  milk  and  meal  into  a  boiler  and  heat  together  for  about  10 
minutes,  add  the  butter  and  syrup  to  the  meal,  sift  together  the 
wheat  flour,  baking  powder,  cinnamon  and  salt.  Add  these  and 
the  eggs  to  the  meal.  Roll  out  on  a  well-floured  board,  cut  into 
the  desired  shapes,  fry  in  deep  fat,  drain  and  roll  in  powdered 
sugar.  This  makes  30  medium-sized  doughnuts. 


Sugar   Substitutes  131 

GRANDMOTHER'S   DOUGHNUTS 

3       tbsp.  veg.  oil,  3       cups  flour, 

1  cup  molasses,  V±  cup   cornstarch, 
ll/2  cups  sweet  milk,  tsp.  baking  powder. 

2  eggs, 

Stir  the  Mazola  into  the  molasses  and  the  milk  and  the  eggs 
well  beaten,  sift  the  flour,  cornstarch  and  baking  powder  together, 
stir  into  the  first  mixture,  beating  well.  Add  enough  more  flour 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  and  fry  in  Mazola. 

HONEY  DROP   COOKIES 

%   cup  honey,  1       tsp.  baking  powder, 

x/i  cup   fat,  %  tsp.  salt, 

1       egg,  1       cup    raisins, 

2V2  cups  barley  flour,  1       tsp.  vanilla. 

%  tsp.   soda, 

Heat  honey  and  fat  together  to  combine.  Cool  and  add  eggs. 
Sift  dry  ingredients.  Mix  well  and  add  the  raisins;  a  little  water 
will  probably  be  necessary  to  make  a  drop  dough  of  this  mix- 
ture (about  2  tbsp.).  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a  well-greased 
sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

PEANUT    DROP    COOKIES 

The  constituents  are  the  same  as  for  oatmeal  drop  cookies,  with 
the  substitution  of  2^3  cups  of  ground  peanuts  for  the  rolled 
oats  and  nuts  called  for.  Combine  and  bake  in  same  way. 

GINGER  SNAPS 

1       cup  sorghum,  %  tsp.  soda, 

y2  cup  fat,  1       tsp.  baking  powder, 

ll/z  cups  rye  flour,  tsp.  salt, 

IV2  cups  barley  flour,  1       tsp.  ginger. 

Combine  the  fat  and  the  syrup.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  and 
add  to  the  above  mixture.  When  thoroughly  chilled  this  should 
form  a  stiff  dough.  If  it  does  not,  add  more  flour.  Roll  thin  and 
cut  out  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  a  delicate  brown. 

PUDDINGS 
STEAMED  BARLEY  PUDDING 

1  cup  sour   milk,  %  cup  corn  meal^ 

1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  barley  flour, 

1  egg,  a/4  tsp.  salt, 

1  tsp.    soda,  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 


132  "Win.   the   War"   Cook  Book 

Beat   egg;    add   molasses,    milk    and    soda    dissolved    in    a    little 

cold  water.     Sift  corn  meal  and  barley  together  and  combine  with 

first   mixture.      Add   chopped   raisins   and   pour    into   well-greased 

baking  powder  tins.     Steam  two  hours.     Serve  with  a  fruit  sauce. 

Try  One  When  You  Have  a  Light  Dinner  or  Supper 

OATMEAL  BETTY  OR  BROWN   PUDDING 

2       cups  cooked  oatmeal,  Vz  cup   sugar, 

4       apples  cut  up  small,  %  tsp.   cinnamon, 

y2  cup  raisins,  %   cup  molasses. 

Mix  and  bake  for  one-half  hour.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Any  dried 
fresh  fruits,  dates,  or  ground  peanuts  may  be  used  instead  of 
apples.  Either  will  serve  five  people. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

Here  is  a  Delicious  Corn  Meal  and  Milk  Dessert 

INDIAN  PUDDING 

4       cups  milk  (whole  or  skim),       %   tsp.  salt, 
}4   cup  corn  meal,  I       tsp.   ginger. 

Cook  milk  and  meal  in  a  double  boiler  20  minutes,  add  molasses, 
salt  and  ginger.  Pour  into  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  two 
hours  in  a  slow  oven  or  use  your  fireless  cooker.  Serve  with 
milk.  This  makes  a  good  and  nourishing  dessert.  Serve  six. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 

Eat  Bananas. — Do  you  know  that  bananas  are  great  producers 
of  energy?  Bananas  are  peculiar  in  combining  the  sweet  quanti- 
ties of  the  fruit  with  the  nourishing  quantities  of  the  vegetable. 
On  account  of  the  presence  of  so  much  nutriment  and  because 
bananas  grow  so  luxuriantly,  it  is  stated  that  a  given  area  of 
ground  will  support  a  greater  population  if  planted  to  bananas 
than  if  planted  to  wheat.  Do  you  know  there  is  a  banana  flour? 

BANANA  PUDDING 

1       cup  flour,  3       bananas, 

J/4  tsp.  salt,  1       egg, 

1       tbsp.  sugar,  ^4   cup  milk. 

1       tbsp.  lemon  juice, 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk,  egg  beaten  well,  lemon 
juice  and  then  the  bananas  put  through  a  sieve.  Heat  mixture 
well,  put  into  #  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30-45 
minutes.  Serve  with  lemon  juice.  Miss  Ella  D.  Rode, 

Domestic  Science  Instructor,  Patrick  Henry  School. 


Sugar    Substitutes  133 

1.— DATE    PUDDING 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1       tsp.   soda, 

2  cups   graham   flour,  ^3  cup   molasses, 
l/3  cup  brown   sugar,                         %   tsp.    salt, 

1       tbsp.  melted  butter,  1       Ib.  dates. 

Mix  the  milk,  molasses,  sugar  and  dates,  which  have  been 
stoned  and  cut  fine,  add  the  unsifted  graham  flour,  mixed  with 
soda,  and  lastly  the  melted  butter.  Steam  for  2  hours  in  pound 
baking  powder  cans.  This  pudding  can  be  resteamed  and  served 
with  lemon  sauce. 

Miss   Leigh  Harris, 
Domestic   Science   Instructor,   Yeatman   High   School. 

2.— DATE  PUDDING 

Remove  the  seeds  from  half  pound  of  dates,  after  picking  over 
and  stemming  them.  Boil  half  hour  in  three  or  four  pints  of 
water.  Thicken  with  graham  meal  and  cook  slowly  until  meal  is 
done,  preferably  over  night  in  fireless  cooker,  pour  into  cups  to 
cool.  Sugar  may  be  added  to  taste,  but  it  is  good  without.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

1.— RICE   PUDDING 

"Vz  cup  rice,  */4   tsp.  cinnamon, 

2  cups  water,  %  tsp.  nutmeg, 

¥2  tsp.  salt,  V±  cup   raisins, 

y$  cup  molasses  or  honey,  ^   cup   nuts    (chopped). 

Wash  rice,  boil  20  minutes  in  salted  water,  drain,  mix  rice  and 
molasses  or  honey,  add  spices,  nuts,  raisins.  If  mixture  is  dry  add 
i/i  cup  water.  Bake  20-30  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Water 
drained  from  rice  may  be  used  as  foundations  for  white  sauces 
or  soup  or  is  very  good  for  starching  fine  clothes. 

2.— RICE  PUDDING 

Two  quarts  of  fresh  nice  milk  with  half  a  teacupful  of  rice,  one 
and  one-half  cups  sugar,  a  little  salt,  with  a  sprinkling  of  nut- 
meg. Bake  in  very  slow  oven  for  three  hours,  stirring  often  so 
as  to  avoid  burning;  4  eggs  may  be  added  to  this  pudding. 


134  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

CORN  MEAL   FIG  PUDDING 

Vz  cup  corn  meal,  3       cups  milk, 

J/4  tsp.   salt,  Vz  cup  finely  chopped  figs, 

Vz  cup  molasses,  1       egg. 

To  rapidly  boiling  water  add  corn  meal  and  salt  and  cook  for 
5  minutes.  Mix  the  molasses,  figs  and  egg  and  add  to  corn  meal 
when  partially  cooked.  Place  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake 
iy2  hours,  set  in  hot  water  in  a  moderate  oven.  Dates  may  be 
used  in  place  of  figs. 

Hilda  Z.   Rollman, 
Domestic  Science  Instructor,  Cote  Brilliante  School. 

FIG  PUDDINGS 

One-fourth  pound  figs  chopped  fine,  two  cups  bread  crumbs,  one 
cup  brown  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  suet  chopped  fine,  two  eggs, 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  dessert  spoonful  of 
molasses,  one-half  grated  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  flour.  Steam 
three  hours  and  serve  with  boiled  sauce,  flavored  with  lemon. 

PRUNE   TAPIOCA 

• 

%  cup  tapioca,  y2  tsp.  salt, 

15       large  prunes,  *4   tsp.  almond  extract, 

1^3  cups   corn   syrup  or   1^        ^  tbsp.  orange  extract, 
cups  honey,  %  cup    pecan   nuts. 

Soak  prunes  and  tapioca  in  twice  enough  water  to  cover  (soak 
prunes  over  night),  stone  and  chop  the  prunes,  add  enough  water 
to  the  drained-off  liquid  to  make  four  and  one-half  cups.  Bring 
this  to  a  boil,  adding  prunes,  syrup,  tapioca,  salt.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  for  forty  minutes.  Add  flavoring  and  nuts.  Serve  cold 
with  sauce.  Thh  is  a  very  nutritious  dish  for  children. 

HONEY  BLANC  MANGE 

Half  a  cup  of  honey,  four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch, 
a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  cold  milk,  two  cups  of  scalded  milk  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Moisten  the  cornstarch  with  the  cold  milk,  then 
add  scalded  milk  and  stir  until  it  boils  for  8  minutes,  then  add 
the  salt  and  the  honey.  Divide  into  small  wet  molds  to  cool. 
Turn  out,  sprinkle  a  few  chopped  nuts  over  the  top  and  serve 
with  cream.  Maple  syrup  may  be  used  instead  of  the  honey. 


Sugar    Substitutes  135 

JELLY  APRICOTS 

Heat  four  cups  of  cooked  dried  apricots  and  their  juice  to  the 
boiling  point,  add  l2/2  cups  of  syrup,  molasses,  and  stew  for  ten 
minutes.  Then  add  2  tablespoons  of  gelatine  softened  in  a  quar- 
ter of  a  cup  of  water  and  2  tablespoons  juice.  Turn  into  wet 
mold,  stiffen  and  serve  with  apricot  whip. 

To  make  apricot  whip,  mix  half  cup  of  sifted  cooked  apricot 
pulp,  the  white  of  three  eggs,  half  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and 
half  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  the  mixture  with  a  wire  whisk 
until  it  will  hold  its  shape,  and  serve  immediately.  If  it  is  de- 
sired to  keep  it  some  time  pile  it  into  buttered  ramekins,  set  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  moderate 
oven.  In  this  case  it  becomes  an  apricot  souffle,  and  may  be 
served  either  hot  or  cold  with  plain  stewed  apricots. 

STEAMED  PLUM  PUDDING 

2  cups  graham  flour,  tsp.    soda, 

1  cup  molasses,  tsp.    salt,    scant, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1       tsp.   cinnamon, 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  (ground),        %  tsp.   cloves. 
Steam  3  hours.     Serve  with  lemon  juice. 

Mrs.  J.  B.   Suddath. 

PUDDING  SAUCES 
QUEEN  SAUCE 

2  eggs,  l/<3  CUPS  Karo  or  maple  syrup, 
1       tbsp.' butter  sub.    (veg.           Juice  of  2  lemons  and  rind, 

oil),  1       cup  water. 

Stir  together  over  fire  (double  boiler)  until  mixture  thickens. 

STRAWBERRY  SAUCE 

Juice  and  pulp  (crushed)  of  strawberries,  add  V2  cup  sugar  and 
eggs  beaten  separately,  add  to  juice  and  sugar.  Set  over  boiling 
water.  Whip  with  egg  beater  until  the  sauce  is  foamy  and  thick 
as  custard;  serve  with  sponge  cake. 

LEMON   SAUCE 

Boil  together  1  cupful  hot  water  and  IV2  cups  clear  corn  syrup 
for  5  minutes.  Mix  3  heaping  teaspoonfuls  cornstarch  mixed 


136  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

with   a   little   cold   water,    add   to   mixture.    Cook   until    clear    like 
honey,  add  1  tablespoonful  Troco.     Stir  until  Troco  melts. 

FOAMY  EGGS 

1       egg,  Vz   cup    maple    sugar, 

Vz  tsp.    vanilla,  ~Vz   cup  whipped  cream. 

Beat  egg  white  until  stiff,  beat  in  gradually  the  maple  sugar 
powdered;  when  smooth  and  light,  add  vanilla  and  well-beaten 
yolks.  Stir  in  whipped  cream,  serve  at  once. 

WHIPPED  CREAM 

1  cup   double   cream,  Flavoring. 

1  tbsp.  sugar, 

Bowl  and  beater,  as  \yell  as  cream,  must  be  thoroughly  chilled. 
Cream  to  whip  well  should  be  36  hours  old. 
Hard   sauce   should  not  be   used   during  war   period. 

BRER  RABBIT  CREOLE  SAUCE 

A  delicious  Southern  sauce,  used  down  South  to  give  added  zest 
to  pudding  of  all  kinds.  Especially  delicious  with  plum  pudding. 

Boil  1  cup  Brer  Rabbit  Molasses  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vege- 
table oil  for  about  5  minutes.  Take  from  fire  and  add  juice  of  two 
lemons. 

SOFT  CUSTARD   SAUCE 

See  soft  custard. 

ICE   CREAMS   AND    FANCY    DESSERTS 

HONEY  MOUSSE 

2  cups  whipped  cream,  1  cup  honey. 
4  eggs, 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well,  and  then  beat  the  honey  in  grad- 
ually. Heat  slowly  until  thick,  stirring  constantly;  remove  and 
cool,  and  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  that  have  been  whipped 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Then  add  the  whipped  cream  and  blend  all  to- 
gether. Pack  in  large  quantities  of  ice  and  salt  and  freeze  with- 
out stirring. 


Sugar    Substitutes  137 

SORGHUM  GINGER  MOUSSE 

1  cup   whipped   cream,  */4  preserved  ginger,  minced, 
3  tbsp.   sorghum,  Few    drops    vanilla. 

Whip  cream,  fold  in  syrup,  ginger  and  flavoring.  Pack  in  ice 
and  salt  to  freeze.  The  strong  flavor  of  the  sorghum  is  objection- 
able to  some,  but  it  seems  to  blend  very  well  with  ginger.  A 
small  amount  of  dried  ginger  may  be  used,  but  the  preserved  gin- 
ger gives  it  a  more  desirable  product. 

HONEY  CUSTARD  CREAM 

2  cups  milk,  y3  cup    honey, 

2  tbsp.   flour,  2       well-beaten    whites, 

2  egg  yolks,  Few  drops  vanilla. 

Bring  milk  and  flour  to  boil,  pour  over  the  yolk  and  honey;  cook 
over  hot  water  until  it  thickens.  This  amount  will  serve  six. 

MAPLE  NUT  PARFAIT 

Vz   cup  maple   syrup,  1       cup  whipping  cream, 

2       egg   whites,  %   cup    nuts. 

Vanilla, 

Cook  syrup  to  firm  ball.  Pour  over  the  well-beaten  whites. 
Beating  well,  when  cool  fold  in  the  whipped  cream;  add  nuts  and 
flavoring.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt  to  freeze  without  stirring.  This 
amount  will  serve  six. 

HONEY  PARFAIT 

Vz   cup    honey,  1  tsp.   gelatine, 

2       eggs,  1  cup    cream,    whipped. 

Soften  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolve  in  hot  water. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  then  heat  the  honey  in  gradually. 
Heat  slowly  with  the  gelatine  until  thick,  cool.  Add  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  the  whipped  cream  and  freeze. 

SHERBETS 

1  pt.   fruit  juice,  %   cup   cold   water, 

1  tsp.   gelatine,  */4   cup  lemon  juice, 

1  cup  honey,  1       qt.  water. 

Dissolve   the    gelatine    in   the    usual   manner,    softening  in   cold 

water  and  dissolving  in  boiling  water.     Stir  in  the  honey  rapidly, 

strain,  cool  and  add  the  fruit  juices.     Boiling  should  cease  as  soon 
as  the  honey  is  r.dded.     Freeze  as  usual. 


138  "Win  the   WW   Cook  Book 

DATE  ICE  CREAM 

2  cups  milk,  2  beaten  whites, 

2  egg  yolks,  Few  drops  vanilla, 

3  tbsp.   syrup,  1  cup   dates. 

Scald  the  dates  and  remove  seed.  Cook  in  milk  to  soften  and 
rub  through  strainer;  mix  the  yolks  and  syrup  and  pour  the  hot- 
milk  date  mixture  over  it. 

FIG  AU  FAIT 

2  cups  black  cooking  figs,  y$  cup  nuts, 

1  cup  whipping  cream,  Few  drops  vanilla. 

3  tbsp.    honey, 

Wash  figs  well.  Soak  over  night  and  cook  until  tender  in  water 
in  which  soaked.  Cook  down  syrup  and  drain.  Whip  cream  and 
sweeten  with  the  honey  and  the  syrup  from  the  figs.  Add  vanilla. 
Pack  cream  to  freeze  without  stirring.  When  frozen,  open  and  re- 
pack in  square  mold,  alternating  layer  of  figs  cut  in  halves  with 
nuts  and  the  frozen  cream.  Surround  with  ice  and  salt  until 
needed. 

ORANGE  MOUSSE 

2  oranges,  1  tsp.    powdered   gelatine, 

1  cup   honey,  2  cups  thick  cream. 

Peel  and  cut  up  the  oranges,  rejecting  the  white  inner  skin. 
Heat  the  honey  over  boiling  water.  Soak  the  powdered  gelatine  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  water.  Add  the  orange  and  the  gelatine  to  the 
honey  and  stir  for  5  minutes.  Then  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and 
when  cold  add  the  cream,  whipped  stiff.  Pack  in  ice  and  coarse 
salt  (equal  quantities)  and  let  stand  3  or  4  hours.  Pineapple  or 
other  fruit  may  be  used  instead  of  orange. 

AIRLINE  ICE  CREAM 

4  cups  thin  cream,  %  cup  honey. 
Mix  and  freeze. 

SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM 

2  tbsp.  butter,  %  cup  honey. 
2  tsp.   cornstarch, 

Cook  together  the  cornstarch  and  butter  thoroughly,  being  care- 
ful not  to  brown  them.  Add  the  honey  and  cook  the  mixture  until 
it  becomes  hard  when  dropped  into  cold  water,  and  until  all  taste 
of  raw  cornstarch  has  been  removed. 

Farmers'  Bulletin  653. 


Sugar    Substitutes  139 

MENU  FOR  CONSERVATION  LUNCHEON 

Served   at   State   Meeting   Woman's    Committee    Council   National 

Defense,   by 

Miss  Louise  Stanley,  Missouri  University 

Wheatless,   Meatless,    Sugarless 

Peanut  Croquettes 

Soy  Bean  Croquettes 

Mashed  Potatoes  Spinach 

Corn  Muffins 
Date  and  Cheese  Salad  Corn  Flour  Cheese  Straws 

Sorghum  Ginger  Parfait 

Corn  Flour  Cookies  Oatmeal  Cookies 

Coffee  Served  With  Honey 

Peanut  and   Rice  Croquettes 

1       cup  peanuts    (ground),  1       cup    rice    (cooked), 

l/3  cup  cream   sauce,  J4  tsp.  onion  juice, 

Salt,  Pepper. 

Soy  Bean  Croquettes 

1       cup   beans    (cooked   and          Pepper, 

ground),  */$  cup  thick  cream  sauce, 

*4   tsp.  onion  juice,  Salt. 

Corn  Muffins 

1J/3  cup   corn  meal,  M$   tsp.   salt, 

1       tbsp.    oil,  1       egg, 

1  cup   milk,  l1^  tsp.  baking  powder. 

Corn  Flour  Cheese  Straws 

2  cups  corn   flour,  2       tsp.   baking   powder, 
1       tsp.  salt,                                     5       tbsp.  oil, 

1       egg,  Vz  cup  sweet  milk. 

Vz  cup    grated    cheese, 

Roll  thin,   brush   with   melted   butter  and   sprinkle   with   grated 
cheese. 


140  "Win  the   War"   Cook  Book 

Date   and  Cheese   Salad 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  dates  to  sterilize.  Remove  stones 
and  stuff  with  a  mixture  of  cottage  cheese,  nuts  and  pimento. 
Cured  cheese  may  be  substituted  for  the  cottage  cheese. 

Sorghum  Ginger  Parfait 

1  pt.   cream,   whipped,  Vz  cup  candied    or    preserved 

2  eggs,   whites,  ginger. 
%  cup  syrup, 

If  preserved  ginger  is  used,  count  the  syrup  as  part  of  that  used. 
Heat  syrup  and  boil  to  thread,  pour  over  well-beaten  whites,  beat- 
ing well.  Cool  and  fold  in  the  cream.  Pour  in  milk  and  pack  to 
freeze. 

Oatmeal   Cookies 

3  cups   oatmeal,  1       cup    honey, 

1       egg,  y3  to  Vz  cup  fat, 

tsp.  baking  powder,  Raisins  or  dates, 

Vz  tsp.  salt,  Nuts. 

Flavoring, 

Corn  Flour  Cookies 

2%   cups   corn   flour,  %   cup    of   the   flour   made    into 

1       cup  honey  (or  ^3  cup  mo-  mush  with  2/T,  cup  of  water, 

lasses  and   Vz   cup  Vz   tsp.   salt, 

syrup),  2       tsp.    baking   powder. 
1       egg, 

Flavoring    or    spices,       (1A   tsp.    cinnamon, 

(%   tsp.   allspice, 
(Vz  tsp.    nutmeg. 

One-third  to  Vz  cup  fat  (depending  on  amount  of  liquid  sweet- 
ening). 


Sterilization  and  Home  Canning 

In  the  preservation  of  foods  by  heat,  it  is  necessary  that  a  tem- 
perature be  selected  such  that  all  organism  capable  of  producing 
undesirable  changes  shall  be  destroyed,  and  yet  no  undesirable 
changes  take  place  in  the  food  itself.  This  means  practically  that 
the  temperature  selected  should  be  just  as  low  as  is  consistent 
with  certain  sterilizations. 

Many  articles  of  food  are  quite  efficiently  sterilized  by  being 
brought  to  the  boiling  temperature.  Such  are  those  that  contain 
considerable  quantities  of  acid,  as  do  the  fruits.  In  this  case,  the 
antiseptic  and  disinfectant  action  of  the  acid  is  so  increased  by 
the  temperature  of  boiling  water  that  it  quite  certainly  sterilizes 
the  food  material.  Foods  containing  a  large  proportion  of  sugars 
are  also  easily  sterilized  by  boiling,  in  as  much  as  the  boiling  tem- 
perature of  a  saccharine  solution  is  much  higher  than  100°  C. 
A  concentrated  solution  of  sugar,  by  its  high  osmotic  pressure, 
also  acts  as  a  preservative.  Vegetables  such  as  corn  and  peas 
are  much  more  difficult  to  preserve,  in  as  much  as  they  contain 
neither  acid  nor  sugar  in  considerable  quantities  and  are  ordinarily 
infected  with  certain  of  the  anaerobic  spore-producing  bacteria, 
which  are  capable  of  withstanding  high  temperatures.  Care  must 
be  used  not  to  heat  such  foods  to  too  high  a  temperature,  or  the 
flavor  and  appearance  will  be  materially  impaired.  If  the  tem- 
perature is  not  high  enough,  however,  the  spores  will  not  be  killed 
and  butyric  acid  bacteria  and  certain  gas  formers  will  begin  to 
develop.  The  entire  season's  output  of  canneries  has  been  de- 
stroyed in  this  way.  This  difficulty  may  be  obviated  in  several 
ways. 

Temperatures  considerably  higher  than  those  of  boiling  water 
may  be  used.  The  cans  are  filled  with  the  vegetables,  sealed,  and 
placed  in  a  steam  cooker  much  resembling  in  action  the  autoclave 
used  in  the  laboratory.  Steam  is  admitted  under  pressure  and  the 
desired  temperature  can  be  reached  by  controlling  the  steam  pres- 
sure. Experimentation  is  sometimes  necessary  to  determine  the 
temperature  in  particular  instances  which  will  certainly  destroy 
all  of  the  bacteria  present,  and  at  the  same  time  not  injure  the 
material  being  canned. 


142  "Win  the   Wat-"  Cook  Book 

Intermittent  sterilization  may  be  resorted  to.  This  is  the  most 
common  method  used  in  the  household  in  canning  certain  vege- 
tables. The  cans  containing  the  material  to  be  preserved  are 
placed  in  water,  the  water  brought  to  a  boil  and  kept  at  a  boiling 
temperature  for  a  period  of  an  hour  or  more.  They  are  then  al- 
lowed to  cool,  and  the  process  repeated  on  three  or  more  suc- 
cessive days.  This  is  the  principle  of  intermittent  sterilization 
such  as  is  used  in  the  laboratory  for  sugar  media  easily  destroyed 
by  heat.  The  spores  present  begin  to  germinate  in  the  first 
twenty-four  hours.  The  second  heating  will  kill  all  the  vege- 
tative forms  which  have  developed.  Repeating  the  heating  in  this 
manner  several  times  will  certainly  destroy  all  the  bacteria  which 
may  be  present. 

Some  canners  have  made  a  practice  of  adding  small  quantities 
of  chemicals  as  preservatives.  This  enables  them  to  sterilize  at  a 
lower  temperature  and  insure  them  from  loss  from  decomposition. 
In  canning  factories,  temperatures  from  110°  to  120°  C.  for  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes  are  used  for  sterilization  in  small  packages  and 
longer  periods  for  larger  packages.  The  heat  used  in  the  preserva- 
tion of  food  by  sterilization  produces  few  changes  other  than 
those  which  would  be  accomplished  by  ordinary  cooking.  Proteins 
are  generally  coagulated  and  sugar  is  usually  inverted  to  some 
extent,  i.  e.,  changed  to  simpler  sugars. 

MICRO-ORGANISMS    IN   FOODS    PRESERVED   BY   HEAT 

Micro-organisms  may  gain  entrance  to  foods  by  improper  seal- 
ing or  they  may  persist  th'rough  a  process  of  attempted  steriliza- 
tion. 

Certain  types  of  food  materials,  particularly  the  fruits,  are 
most  apt  to  be  attacked  by  molds,  such  as  Penicillium  and  Asper- 
gillus.  These  molds  do  not  develop  unless  there  is  oxygen  present. 
They  fail  to  develop  in  hermetically  sealed  jars.  They  bring  about 
changes  which  render  the  material  undesirable  as  food,  although 
there  is  no  evidence  that  they  produce  poisonous  substances  in 
appreciable  quantities.  Usually  the  mold  is  confined  to  the  sur- 
face, but  the  decomposition  products  of  its  growth  frequently 
penetrate  the  flavor  of  the  whole  mass. 

Vegetables  and  meats  are  commonly  destroyed  by  bacteria.  The 
most  abundant  types  are  those  which  have  withstood  heating  be- 


Sterilization  and  Home  Canning  143 

cause  of  the  resistant  character  of  the  spores  formed.  The  or- 
ganisms belonging  to  the  butyric  acid  group  of  bacteria  are  rela- 
tively abundant  in  the  soil  and  are  present  on  the  surfaces  of 
most  vegetables.  They  bring  about  decomposition  with  the  evolu- 
tion of  considerable  amounts  of  gas.  This  gas  may  accumulate 
in  quantities  sufficient  to  bulge  and  even  to  break  the  tin  in  which 
it  is  sealed.  The  development  of  such  organisms  renders  the  food 
wholly  unfit  for  use.  Some  bacteria  have  been  described  which 
bring  about  decomposition  in  vegetables  and  meats  without  the 
evolution  of  gas.  They  give  evidence  of  their  presence  by  the  de- 
velopment of  peculiar  odors  and  flavors.  In  many  cases  these 
gain  entrance  to  the  food  after  it  has  been  sealed,  and  are  due  to 
defective  sealing.  • 

STEPS  IN  PREPARATION 

1.  Preparation  and  cleaning  of  containers. 

2.  Preparation  of  products  to  be  canned,  washing,  paring,  cut- 
ting, etc. 

3.  Clean  hands,  clean  utensils,  clean,  sound,  fresh  products  and 
pure,  clean,  soft  water. 

4.  If  possible,  the  fruits  and  vegetables  should  be  picked  the  day 
of  canning. 

5.  The  containers  washed  should  be  placed  in  a  vessel  of  cold 
water  over  a  fire  to  heat.     They  will  then  be  hot  and  ready  for 
use  when  the  products  have  been  prepared  for  packing. 

I.  (a)  Scalding  or  blanching  is  done  by  placing  the  products  to 
be  canned  in  cheese  cloth  bag,  or  dipping  basket  into 
boiling  water,  and  allowed  to  remain  there  from  1  to  15 
minutes,  depending  on  the  kind  of  product. 

(b)  In  the  case  of  green  vegetables,  however,  the  scalding 
is  accomplished  most  satisfactorily  in  steam,  as  volatile 
oils  and  other  substances  remain  in  the  food  under  this 
treatment. 

II.  As  soon  as  the  product  is  removed  from  the  boiling  water 

or  steam,  it  should  be  dipped  into  cold,  clean  water,  and 
immediately  removed  and  drained  for  a  few  moments. 
The  temperature  of  the  water  used  for  cold  dipping 
should  be  as  low  as  possible. 


144  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

III.  Packing:      The   product   should   be   packed   carefully   into 

hot  jars  as  soon  as  removed.  In  this  case  fruits;  boiling 
hot  syrup  or  hot  water  is  then  added.  In  the  case  of 
vegetables,  hot  water  is  usually  used  and  salt  for  sea- 
soning. The  scalded  rubbers  and  tops  of  jars  are  put 
into  place,  the  tops  of  cans  sealed  and  the  containers 
placed  in  a  hot  water  bath  preserve  cooker  or  other 
similar  device  for  processing. 

.  IV.  Processing  is  the  final  application  of  heat  to  sterilize  the 

product  and  is  continued  for  a  period  determined  by  the 
character  of  the  product  and  the  kind  of  apparatus  used. 
The  containers  should  be  placed  in  the  processing  ves- 
sel as  soon  as  they  are  filled. 

V.  Sealing:   Immediately  after  the  termination  of  the  proc- 

essing period,  while  the  products  are  still  hot,  glass  and 
similar  containers  must  be  sealed. 

Jars  should  then  be  placed  in  a  tray  upside  down  to  cool 
and  closely  examined  for  leaks.  If  leakage  occurs  the 
covers  should  be  tightened  until  they  are  completely 
closed. 

A  FEW  SUGGESTIONS 

Tin  cans  may  be  cooled  by  plunging  them  in  cold  water.  Store 
them  in  a  cool,  dry  place  not  exposed  to  freezing  temperature. 

Most  products  packed  in  glass  jars  will  blanch  or  darken  if  ex- 
posed to  light;  it  is  well,  therefore,  to  wrap  the  jars  in  paper. 
From  time  to  time,  especially  during  very  hot  weather,  both  glass 
jars  and  tin  cans  should  be  examined  to  make  certain  that  there 
are  no  leaks,  swelling  or  other  signs  of  fermentation. 


Sterilization  «nd  Home  Canitii/;/ 


145 


TIME   TABLE 


PRODUCTS  BY  GROUPS. 


Scald 

or 
Blanch. 


Hot  water 

bath 

outfits 

at  212°. 


Steam 

pressure 

5  to  10  Ibs. 


Min. 


Min. 


Min. 


Tomatoes      1  y2  22  15 

Pumpkin     3  120  60 

Squash      •   3  120  60 

Hominy     , 3  120  60 

Corn,     sweet     5  180  90 

Corn,     field     10  180  60 

Mushrooms      5  90  50 

Sweet    peppers     5  90  60 

POD  VEGETABLES  AND  OTHER  GREEN  PRODUCTS. 

Beans,    wax    5-10  120  60 

Beans,    stringless    5-10  120  60 

Okra     5-10  120  60 

Peppers,    green   or    ripe 5-10  120  60 

Cabbage     5-10  120  60 

Brussels    sprouts     5-10  120  60 

Cauliflower     3  260  60 

ROOT    AND    TUBER    VEGETABLES. 

Carrots     5  90  60 

Beets 5  90  60 

Turnips      5  90  60 

Sweet   potatoes    5 

Other   roots   and   tubers 5  90  60 

COMBINATIONS     AND     SOUP     VEGETABLES. 

Lima   beans    5-10  180  60 

Peas      5-10 

Vegetable    combinations 5-10  180  60 

Hot  water 

Scald  bath  Steam 

PRODUCTS  BV  GROUPS.                          or  outfits  pressure 

Blanch. at  212°.         5  to  10  Ibs. 

Min.  Min.  Min. 


GREEN    DOMESTIC    OR    WILD. 

Swiss    Chard    15 

Kale    15 

Turnip    tops     (young,    tender) 15 

Spinach,    New    Zealand    15 

Asparagus     15 

Beets,   tops    15 

Spinach     • 15 

SOFT    FRUITS    AND    BERRIES. 

Apricots     1-2 

Blackberries      

Cherries    

Currants     

Gooseberries      1-2 

Grapes    

Huckleberries      

Peaches      1-2 

Plums     

Raspberries 

Strawberries     

Fruits   without   sugar   syrup 


120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 


16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

30 


60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 


10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
12 


146  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

HARD    FRUITS. 

Apples     1V2  20  8 

Pears     1V2  20  8 

Quinces     1%  20  8 

Windfall   apples    (pie-filling) 

Quartered    apples    (salad) 12 

Whole     apples     and    pared ,16 

Apple    syrup    15 

Fruit    juices     15  8 

Preserves  after  prep,  and  filling 20  10 

Notes:  1.  Do  not  begin  to  count  time  when  the  jars  are  placed 
in  the  canner,  but  wait  until  the  water  begins  to  "boil  hard". 

2.  Count  time  only  while  water  is  "boiling  hard".     If  it  stops 
for  only  a  few  minutes,  make  up  for  it  with  longer  boiling. 

3.  Use  only  NEW  RUBBERS.     If  they  are  so  poor  that  they 
are  destroyed  in  the  boiling  or  if  they  slip  from  under  the  lid  or 
are  cut  by  the  lid  when  it  is  screwed  down,  remove  the  rubber, 
replace  it  with  a  new  one  which  has  been  placed  in  BOILING  water 
for  10  minutes.    Then  place  the  jar  back  in  the  canner  and  sterilize 
30  minutes  longer. 

4.  Fit  lids  carefully  before  placing  the  product  in  the  can. 

5.  DO  NOT  be  alarmed  if  the  water  does  not  cover  the  product 
in  the  can.    It  will  keep  just  as  well.     Some  water  will  escape  in 
the  form  of  steam  if  the  lid  is  not  fairly  tight  and  some  will  be 
absorbed  by  the  product,  especially  if  it  is  corn  or  mature  peas 
and  beans. 

RELISHES 

GREEN  TOMATO  CATSUP 

Boil  the  tomatoes  until  soft,  then  put  through  a  colander.  To  1  % 
gallons  of  tomatoes,  add  1  pound  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar,  1 
tablespoonful  of  whole  black  pepper,  a  double  handful  of  salt,  a 
small  onion  chopped  and  1  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves.  Boil  all 
together  until  the  watery  particles  disappear  and  it  becomes 
somewhat  like  marmalade,  then  bottle  and  seal. 

UNCOOKED  TOMATO  RELISH 

Cut  one-half  peck  of  peeled  tomatoes,  1  cup  each  of  celery,  onion 
and  green  peppers,  add  1  cup  of  salt  and  chop  all  together.  Drain 
in  a  bag  over  night,  and  then  add  half  cup  of  white  mustard  seed, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed  and  1  tablespoonful  of  ground  cin- 
namon. Pack  in  a  jar,  add  3  cups  of  good  cider  vinegar,  cover  and 
set  away.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  5  days  and  keeps  indefinitely 
in  a  cool  place. 


Sterilization  and  Home  Canning  147 

CORN  RELISH 

Cut  corn  from  cob  of  18  ears,  force  1  small  cabbage  through 
meat  grinder.  Separate  1  bunch  of  celery,  remove  leaves  and 
chop  stalks..  Peel  4  onions  and  cut  in  thin  slices  crosswise.  Wipe 
2  green  peppers  and  chop.  Put  prepared  vegetables  in  preserving 
kettle  and  pour  over  1  quart  of  vinegar.  Mix  thoroughly  2  cups 
of  sugar,  %  teaspoonful  cayenne,  1  cup  of  flour,  one-half  cup 
of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
turmeric  and  add  1  quart  of  vinegar  slowly.  Combining  mixtures, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  40  minutes.  Fill  glass  jars 
and  seal. 

APPLE  CHUTNEY 

5  Ibs.   apples  when   peeled  2       ounces  of  mustard  seed, 

and  cored,  2       ounces   salt, 

1  pt.  vinegar,  1       ounce  of  curry  powder, 
1  Ib.  Sultana  raisins,  */4  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper, 

1  Ib.   onions,  %  Ib.  yellow  sugar. 

Stew  the  apples  and  onions  in  the  vinegar  until  well  cooked  and 
tender,  then  chop  the  Sultana  raisins  and  add  them,  then  all  the 
other  ingredients.  Mix  well  and  boil  for  half  hour.  When  cold 
it  is  ready  for  use  and  makes  a  pleasant  change  with  cold  meats 
instead  of  pickle. 

APPLE   RELISH 

7  Ibs.  apples,  1       tsp.  powdered  cloves, 

2  Ibs.    seeded   raisins,  2       tsp.  powdered  cinnamon, 

1  pt.  vinegar,  S1/^  Ibs.  of  sugar. 

2  oranges, 

Chop  the  raisins  and  put  them  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  add 
the  apples  chopped  and  unpeeled,  the  juice  and  the  chopped  peel 
of  the  oranges,  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices.  Boil  steadily  for 
half  hour.  This  relish  will  keep  in  unsealed  cans  all  winter. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP 

Twelve  large  cucumbers  laid  in  cold  water  for  1  hour.  Pare 
and  grate  fine  into  a  deep  earthern  dish.  Grate  2  small  onions 
and  add  the  cucumbers.  Season  the  mixture  with  salt,  pepper  and 
vinegar,  making  it  as  thick  as  marmalade.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
seal  in  glass  jars.  Be  sure  to  use  pure  cider  vinegar  and  see  that 
the  jars  are  air  tight.  This  is  fine  with  cold  meats. 

E.  C.  H., 
Wisconsin. 


148  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

PICKLED  LIME  RELISH 

1       doz.  thin  skinned  pickled          1       cup  of  vinegar, 

limes,  %   cup   water. 

l1/^  cups    sugar, 

Wash  the  limes  and  soak  them  in  cold  water  for  24  hours. 
Change  the  water  several  times.  In  the  morning  put  them  over 
the  fire  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  and  boil  until  a  straw  can 
penetrate  easily.  Let  cool,  cut  in  eighths  and  remove  the  seeds. 
Put  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  water  into  a  saucepan,  boil  it  for  fifteen 
minutes,  and  pour  over  the  limes.  This  is  very  good  served  with 
scalloped  oysters  and  cold  meats.  It  may  be  prepared  at  any  time 
and  kept  all  the  year  round. 

MINT  CHUTNEY 

1  handful  mint,  tbsp.  tomato  catsup, 

1  cup  seeded  raisins,  Vz  tsp.  salt. 

2  tbsp.    sugar, 

Chop  the  mint  fine,  then  mix  it  with  the  other  ingredients  until 
it  becomes  juicy.  Serve  in  a  little  sauce  boat. 

CARROTS  AND  PINEAPPLE 

1  cup  ground  carrots,  1  cup  pineapple. 

Cook  until  tender,  add  1  cup  sugar  and  1  lemon  quartered  and 
sliced  very  thin.  Boil  slowly  until  thick,  do  not  stir.  Pack  into 
hot  jars  and  sterilize. 

GRAPE  SAUCE 

1  pk.  wild  grapes,  1  ounce   cinnamon, 

1  pk.  apples,  2  nutmegs, 

%  Ib.   sugar  to  1  ounce  of  ground  allspice. 

1  Ib.   of  fruit, 

Pick  off  a  peck  of  wild  grapes  from  the  stems  and  put  on  to  boil. 
When  tender  strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  Cook  1  peck  of  apples 
that  have  been  quartered.  When  done  run  through  the  colander. 
Put  the  juice  of  the  grapes  and  the  apples  in  a  porcelain  kettle 
and  to  each  pound  of  this  add  %  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  1 
ounce  of  ground  cinnamon,  2  nutmegs  grated,  and  1  ounce  of 
ground  allspice.  Cook  until  thick  and  put  into  glasses.  This  is 
fine  for  cold  meat. 


Sterilization  and  Home  Connie;/  149 

CONSERVES 

GRAPE   CONSERVE 

5  Ibs.  grapes,  1  Ib.  shelled  walnuts, 

5  Ibs.  of   sugar,  2  juicy  oranges. 

1  Ib.  of  raisins, 

Remove  the  stems  and  skins  from  the  grapes  and  boil  the  pulp 
until  tender,  then  press  it  through  a  sieve.  Boil  the  skin  of  the 
oranges  until  tender,  then  chop  fine.  Put  the  grape  skins  and  the 
pulp  into  a  saucepan  and  add  the  orange  juice,  the  boiled  skins, 
the  sugar  and  add  the  raisins  and  the  walnuts  and  boil  until  quite 
thick. 

BLUE  PLUM  CONSERVE 

5  Ibs.  large  blue  plums,  1  Ib.  of  English  walnuts, 

5  oranges,  3  Ibs.   sugar. 

1  package  raisins, 

Stone  the  plums  and  cut  them  into  quarters,  wash  the  oranges 
and  take  out  seeds,  then  grind  them  through  a  food  chopper. 
Chop  the  raisins,  mix  all  together  with  the  sugar  and  let  stand 
over  night.  Cook  slowly  until  the  plum  skins  are  soft,  then  add 
the  nuts  chopped  and  put  into  jars. 

• 

STRAWBERRY  AND   CRANBERRY   CONSERVE 

1  qt.  cranberries,  %    pt.   water. 

1  pt.    of    sugar, 

As  a  change  from  the  regulation  cranberry  jelly  or  sauce,  this 
combination  of  cranberry  with  strawberry  will  be  found  appetiz- 
ing. Cover  and  cook  for  10  minutes,  then  skin  and  add  to  the 
cranberry  1  cup  of  strawberry  jam.  Mix  well,  then  pour  into 
molds  and  let  stand  until  cool  and  set. 

PICKLED  FRUIT 

WATERMELON   RIND   PICKLE 

8  Ibs.  of  watermelon  rind  2  tbsp.   ground   cinnamon, 

cut  in  little  cubes,  1  tbsp.  of  allspice, 

4  Ibs.   sugar,  2  tbsp.   whole    cloves. 
1  qt.    of    vinegar, 

Pare  the  rinds  and  cut  off  the  pink  inside,  then  weigh  8  pounds 
and  put  it  into  a  porcelain-lined  preserving  pan  and  cover  with 
boiling  water;  then  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  simmer  until 
quite  tender,  having  it  closely  covered  all  the  time.  It  will  re- 


150  "Win  the   War"  Cook  Book 

quire  about  3  hours.  When  done  have  ready  the  syrup  made  of 
the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices.  Tie  the  ground  spices  in  a  muslin 
bag  and  put  the  whole  cloves  in  loose.  These  ingredients  will  make 
4  quarts  of  excellent  pickle  that  is  inexpensive  and  fine  to  serve 
with  meats. 

PICKLED  PEACHES 

*/2  pk.  peaches,  3  pts.  sugar, 

Vz  pt.  vinegar,  A  few  cloves. 

%  pt.  water, 

Do  not  pare  the  peaches,  but  wipe  them  carefully  with  a  clean 
cloth  until  smooth.  Divide  them  into  3  equal  parts.  Bring  the 
water,  sugar  and  vinegar  to  the  boiling  point,  then  put  in  l/$  of 
the  peaches  and  boil  for  20  minutes;  remove  them  to  a  platter, 
then  put  in  another  third  and  in  20  minutes  the  remaining  third, 
until  each  part  has  been  cooked  for  20  minutes,  thus  making  1 
hour  for  the  syrup.  Stick  1  clove  into  each  peach,  put  the  peaches 
into  jars,  cover  with  the  boiling  syrup  and  seal  at  once  in  glass 
jars.  The  peaches  should  not  be  too  ripe. 


CHERRY  PICKLE 

7       Ibs.  of  red  berries,  \Vz  ounces  of  whole  cloves, 

3%  Ibs.  sugar,  %  pt.  vinegar. 

21/£  ounces  stick  cinnamon, 

Wipe  the  cherries,  then  pit  and  drain  them.  Tie  the  spices  in 
a  cheese  cloth  bag  and  heat  them  with  the  vinegar.  Pour  the  hot 
vinegar  over  the  cold  cherries  and  let  the  mixture  stand  over 
night.  Keep  draining  off  and  reheating  each  day  for  3  or  4  days, 
then  heat  all  together  to  the  boiling  point  and  seal. 


GINGER  PEARS 

10  Ibs.  pears,  6  oranges, 

7  Ibs.  sugar,  1  box  crystallized  ginger. 

4  lemons, 

Peel  the  pears,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  put  them  into  a  pre- 
serving pan  with  the  sugar  and  cook  slowly  for  1  hour.  Add  the 
lemons,  oranges  and  crystallized  ginger,  cut  into  small  pieces  and 
allow  to  simmer  for  3  hours,  divide  into  glasses  and  cover. 


Sterilization  and  Home  Canning  151 

MARMALADES 

A  marmalade  quite  out  of  the  ordinary  is  made  with  the  fol- 
lowing ingredients: 

5       Ibs.  rhubarb,  6       medium  sized  oranges, 

3       large   lemons,  (navels  are  the  best), 

iy2  Ibs.  sugar,  l1^  Ibs.  almonds. 

Wash  and  trim  the  rhubarb  stalks  and  cut  them  into  very  thin 
slices.  Peel  the  yellow  rind  very  thinly  from  the  oranges  and 
lemons;  remove  the  thick  white  pith,  slice  the  pulp  and  add  to 
rhubarb.  Cut  the  yellow  rind  of  3  of  the  oranges  and  1  lemon 
into  tiny  strips,  add  to  the  other  ingredients  with  sugar  in 
measure  to  total  quantity.  Tie  the  remainder  of  the  peel  in  a 
bit  of  cheese  cloth  and  remove  it  after  the  marmalade  is  cooked. 
Stir  the  mixture  thoroughly  and  set  aside  over  night.  Boil  until 
thick,  about  %  of  an  hour  will  suffice,  then  add  the  almonds  which 
have  been  shelled,  blanched  and  sliced,  boil  for  10  minutes  longer, 
pour  into  glasses  and  when  cold  cover  with  paraffin. 

AMBER  OR  GRAPE  FRUIT  MARMALADE 

1  orange,  Water, 

1  lemon,  Sugar. 

1  grape  fruit, 

Shave  the  orange,  the  lemon  and  the  grape  fruit  very  thin,  re- 
jecting nothing  but  the  seeds  and  cores.  Measure  the  fruit  and 
add  to  it  3  times  the  quantity  of  water.  Let  it  stand  in  an  earth- 
enware dish  over  night  and  on  the  second  morning  boil  for  10  min- 
utes only.  Stand  another  night,  and  on  the  second  morning  add 
pint  for  pint  of  sugar,  and  boil  steadily  until  it  jellies.  The  prod- 
uct should  have  a  lumpy  appearance,  quite  different  from  most 
marmalades,  the  strips  of  fruit  being  well  defined  in  a  clear,  pale 
jelly.  To  bring  this  about,  stir  as  little  as  possible  during  the 

2  hours  or  more  of  cooking  which  is  required. 

GOOSEBERRIES 

Gooseberries  and  oranges  make  an  excellent  marmalade.  Stem 
the  gooseberries,  wash,  drain  and  place  in  a  jar  with  an  equal 
measure  of  white  sugar.  To  3  pints  of  berries  use  4  oranges  and 
2  lemons.  Peel  off  the  rind  very  thinly  and  shred  into  threads. 
Cover  with  cup  of  water  and  let  stand  over  night.  Add  the  thinly 


152  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

sliced  pulp  of  the  oranges  and  the  lemons  to  the  berries,  with  an 
equal  measure  of  sugar.  Let  stand  until  following  day.  Add  al- 
together and  cook  until  thick,  pour  into  glasses  and  serve. 

Another  extremely  good  marmalade  calls  for  4  pounds  of  pears, 
4  lemons  and  a  can  of  grated  pineapple.  Peel  and  core  the  pears; 
cook  in  enough  water  to  prevent  them  from  burning.  Rub  through 
a  colander.  Peel  the  lemons,  shred  the  yellow  rind  and  cut  the 
pulp  small;  add  all  with  the  pineapple  to  the  pears  with  an  equal 
measure  of  sugar.  Cook  for  1  hour.  This  is  improved  by  adding 
blanched  shredded  almonds.  Let  the  mixture  cook  for  10  minutes 
longer. 

Eleanor   M.    Lucas. 

RHUBARB  AND  ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Equal   parts   of   sugar   and  Vz  lb.    raisins   to   each   pound    of 

rhubarb,  rhubarb. 

1  orange, 

Use  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  rhubarb  unpeeled,  but  cut  very 
fine;  add  1  whole  orange  and  %  pound  of  raisins  chopped  fine  to 
each  pound  of  rhubarb.  Mix  thoroughly  and  allow  to  stand  several 
hours  in  a  stone  or  agate  kettle.  Then  cook  down  until  very  thick. 
Pour  into  glass  or  paper  jelly  cups. 

CHERRY  BUTTER 

3  cups  of  pulp,  2  cups  sugar,  boil  until  thick. 

Select  fine  ripe  cherries,  testing  them  by  pressure  for  bad  ones 
as  you  leave  the  pits  in.  Cook  the  cherries  with  just  a  little  water 
to  start  them.  When  cooked,  run  through  a  sieve,  add  the  sugar 
and  cook  until  thick. 

APPLE  MARMALADE 

To  make  apple  marmalade  pare,  quarter,  core  and  slice 
apples  to  make  4  pounds,  wash  3  lemons  and  slice  them  very  fine; 
add  them  to  the  apples  with  1  quart  of  water.  Cook  until  the 
apples  are  soft,  press  through  a  colander,  and  measure;  add  an 
equal  amount  of  sugar  and  1  cup  and  a  half  of  blanched  almonds 
cut  into  pieces.  Stir  and  cook  until  thick  like  jelly.  Pour  into 
glasses  and  when  cold  seal. 


Sterilization  and  Home  Cunnimj  153 

Apricots,  pineapples  and  lemon  make  a  marmalade  which  the 
college  girl  aptly  defined  as  "delectable  conglomerate  of  good 
things."  Pare  apricots,  place  in  a  large  bowl  and  add  an  equal 
bulk  of  white  sugar.  To  5  pounds  of  apricots  allow  1  large  can  of 
grated  pineapple,  1  dozen  apricots  blanched  and  cut  into  fine 
strips  and  3  lemons.  Peel  the  lemons,  cut  the  thin  yellow  rind  of  2 
lemons  into  very  small  pieces  and  slice  the  pulp  thinly.  Boil  all 
together  until  thick,  or  about  %  of  an  hour.  Pour  into  glasses  and 
treat  like  jelly  when  cold. 

MOCK  ORANGE  MARMALADE 

2       cups  carrots  through  meat     1  cup   sugar, 

grinder,  1  whole    lemon    through    grinder. 

Vz  cup  water, 
Boil  until  it  jellies. 

Mrs.   Winters. 

Note:  Paraffin  is  used  in  dipping  candles  made  by  rolling  six 
thicknesses  newspaper,  inserting  a  string  in  the  center,  cutting  and 
dipping  in  paraffin.  These  may  be  used  by  the  soldiers.  Save 
paraffin  from  jelly  glasses. 

JELLY 

The  process  of  jelly  making  seems  simple,  and  yet  it  is  fre- 
quently attended  with  uncertain  results  because  the  underlying 
principles  are  not  understood.  There  are  several  factors. 

Fruit  juice  contains  vegetable  acids  and  a  substance  called 
pectin,  both  of  which  are  essential  to  the  jelly  making  process. 
The  amount  of  each  varies  in  the  different  fruits,  which  accounts 
for  the  fact  that  some  fruits  make  better  jelly  than  others.  The 
ideal  fruit  for  jelly  making  should  be  rich  in  pectin  and  should  be 
fairly  acid;  another  important  consideration  is  the  proportion  of 
sugar  to  the  juice;  a  given  volume  of  juice  contains  a  certain 
quantity  of  pectin  in  solution  and  this  quantity  of  pectin  must 
bear  a  definite  relation  to  the  proportion  of  sugar.  Up  to  this 
definite  amount  the  texture  of  the  jelly  produced  more  nearly  ap- 
proaches the  ideal,  but  beyond  the  definite  proportion  the  jelly  is 
increasing  syrup,  until  it  finally  fails  to  hold  together  at  all,  and 
a  gummy  mass  is  the  result.  Experience  and  exercise  of  judg- 
ment are  necessary  to  determine  the  correct  amount  of  sugar  to  be 


154  "Win  the   War"  Cook  Book 

used.  If  fruits  are  gathered  after  a  rain,  or  if  much  water  is 
added,  the  amount  of  pectin  will  be  proportionately  less  and  the 
proportion  of  sugar  must  also  be  diminished.  Experiments  seem 
to  indicate  that  the  correct  proportion  of  sugar  to  juice  varies 
from  three-fourths  of  a  volume  to  one  volume  of  sugar,  to  one 
volume  of  fruit  juice. 

The  time  during  the  process  when  the  sugar  should  be  added 
to  the  juice  is  also  important.  Experiments  seem  to  indicate  that 
to  add  it  near  either  the  beginning  or  to  the  end  of  the  process  is 
likely  to  result  in  crystallization  of  the  sugar.  If  added  at  the 
beginning  of  the  process  the  sugar  is  changed  by  the  action  of 
the  acid  into  two  simple  sugars,  one  of  which  is  apt  to  crystallize. 
If  added  near  the  end  of  the  process  the  original  sugar  may 
crystallize.  If  added  midway  in  the  process  the  sugar  is  only  par- 
tially changed  and  is  less  likely  to  crystallize. 

Experiments  show  that  there  is  no  difference  in  the  texture, 
taste  or  appearance  of  jelly  made  from  cane  or  beet  sugar  if  these 
are  equally  pure.  There  is  a  slight  difference  in  the  volume  of 
jelly  made  from  a  given  amount  of  juice,  the  amount  being 
slightly  less  when  beet  sugar  is  used.  However,  the  difference  is 
so  small  as  to  be  almost  negligible. 

TO    STERILIZE   GLASSES 

The  process  is  the  same  as  for  sterilizing  jars. 

TO  FILL  AND  TO  SEAL 

Fill  the  glasses,  pour  a  layer  of  melted  paraffin  over  the  top, 
adjust  the  covers,  label,  and  set  away  in  a  dry  place. 

APPLE  JELLY 

Wipe,  quarter  and  core  the  apples,  cover  with  cold  water.  Heat 
slowly  and  simmer  until  the  apples  are  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Drain 
through  a  double  thickness  of  cheese  cloth  or  jelly  bag.  Measure 
and  allow  %  amount  of  sugar.  Boil  juice  15  minutes,  add  the 
sugar,  heated  in  the  warming  oven,  and  continue  boiling  10 
minutes,  skim,  fill  glasses,  seal. 

SMALL  FRUIT  JELLY 

Green  or  ripe  grapes,  currants,  cranberries,  raspberries,  black- 
berries, etc.,  may  be  used.  Pick,  wash  and  drain  fruit,  cook  until 
juice  is  extracted  from  fruit.  Follow  directions  for  Apple  Jelly. 


Sterilization  and  Home  Canning  155 

CRAB  APPLE  AND  PINEAPPLE  JELLY 

1  pk.  crab  apples,  Equal  parts  of  sugar. 

2  pineapples, 

A  delicately  flavored  jelly  is  made  by  adding  one  or  two  cut 
and  peeled  pineapples  to  every  peck  of  crab  apples,  and  equal 
parts  of  sugar  to  the  cooked  and  strained  juice  of  the  fruit.  Make 
the  same  as  other  jelly. 

NOTES 
DO  YOU  KNOW  OATMEAL? 

Do  you  know  that  oatmeal  makes  delicious  puddings  and  other 
good  things? 

Of  course  you  know  it  is  a  good  breakfast  food,  but  it  is  even 
better  fixed  up  for  dinner  or  supper.  It  makes 

Excellent   puddings, 

Wholesome   bread   and   cookies, 

An     appetizing     soup     for     a     cold     day, 

A    baked    dish    for    dinner    in    place    of    meat. 

1.  Food   is  Ammunition. 

2.  Every  bit  of  food  saved  is  a  shot  across  No-Man's  Land  at 
the  Huns. 

3.  Soldiers   strenuously   engaged   must  have   sustaining   food. 

4.  There  is  world  shortage  of  115,000  animals  of  the  meat  pro- 
ductive type  (1918).  The  shortage  in  this  country  of  17,000,000 

heads   in   comparison   of   17   years   ago. 

5.  In  the  Italian  drive  the  Italians  had  to  eat  fish  because  of 
shortage  of  meat.  Dean  Mumford. 

6.  Corn  saved  our  pioneers.     Do  you  know  corn  meal?     Its  use 
means  service  to  your  country,  nourishing  food  for  you. 

7.  Use  common   sense  in  making  War  Food  and  at  this  crisis 
it   is   the   duty   for  each   housewife   to   make   her   kitchen    a 
laboratory  for  experiments  in  conservation  of  food  subs. 

8.  The  men   of  England,   Scotland,  Ireland,   France,   Italy  and 
Belgium — our  allies — are  fighting;  they  are  not  on  the  farms. 

The  production  of  food  by  these  countries  has  therefore  been 
greatly  reduced.  Even  before  the  war  it  was  much  less 
than  the  amount  consumed.  The  difference  came  more  largely 
from  other  countries  than  from  America.  Now  this  differ- 
ence is  greater  than  ever,  at  the  same  time  supplies  can  no 
longer  come  from  most  of  the  other  countries.  They  must 
now  come  from  America.  Therefore  our  allies  depend  on  us 


156  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

for  food  as  they  have  never  depended  before,  and  they  ask  us 
for  it  with  a  right  which  they  have  never  had  before.  For 
today  they  are  doing  the  fighting  and  suffering  and  dying  in 
our  war.  We  must  send  them  the  food  they  have  to  have. 
We  will  send  it.  But  we  can  only  do  it  by  a  wise  and  loyal 
economy  of  food  on  the  part  of  every  one  of  us.  We  must 
stimulate  our  food  production,  organize  our  food-handling, 
eliminate  all  the  waste  possible,  substitute  as  largely  as  pos- 
sible other  foods  for  wheat,  beef,  pork,  dairy  products  and 
sugar,  and  reduce  consumption  where  it  is  excessive. 
9.  Let  us  at  this  time  utterly  repeat  the  old  saying  that  the  waste 
in  the  kitchen  of  a  prosperous  American  household  would  feed 
a  French  family. 

10.  Wastefulness:  The  elimination  of  waste  will  save  literally 
billions  of  dollars  for  the  American  people,  and  at  the  same 
time  not  disrupt  in  any  degree  the  industrial  progress  of  the 
nation. 

TO  SAVE  GAS  OR  FUEL 

Save  Gas — Never  leave  burner  lighted  while  preparing  material 
-better  to  use  an  extra  match. 

When  oven  is  used  plan  to  bake  at  same  time  a  roast,  apples,  po- 
tatoes and  a  pudding  or  cake. 

The  boiling  point  is  212°  F.  No  amount  of  heat  will  make  it 
higher.  Notice  this  and  turn  flame  accordingly. 

There  are  three-cornered  sauce  pans — 3  vegetables  or  sauces 
may  be  cooked  at  one  time. 


Rules  for  Red  Cross  Knitting 

This  circular  is  prepared  primarily  for  the  use  of  hand  knit- 
ters. Knitting  machines  may  be  used  if  desired,  provided  the 
articles  can  be  as  well  made  and  made  of  the  same  yarn. 

The  color  of  the  yarn  has  been  carefully  considered  with  the 
authorities  of  the  War  Department,  and  with  the  American  Red 
Cross  Commissioner  'for  Europe,  in  Paris.  It  has  been  learned 
from  both  of  these  sources  that  articles  made  in  either  gray  or 
khaki  yarn  will  be  acceptable.  Owing  to  the  difficulty  in  securing 
khaki-colored  yarn  in  large  quantities,  the  American  Red  Cross 
Supply  Bureau  will  carry  the  gray  yarn  (oxford  mixture,  4-ply 
10's  construction). 

Yarn  and  knitting  needles  may  be  procured  either  from  Red 
Cross  Chapters  or  from  stores,  provided  the  yarn  is  of  the  same 
grade  and  needles  of  the  same  size  as  those  described  here. 

The  needles  referred  to  in  these  directions  are  standardized  Red 
Cross  needles  which  can  be  purchased  from  Red  Cross  Chapters. 
Their  diameter  is  given  opposite  their  respective  number. 

Red  Cross  Needles  No.  1—125/1000  inches. 
Red  Cross  Needles  No.  2—175/1000  inches. 
Red  Cross  Needles  No.  3—200/1000  inches. 

Stitches  should  not  be  cast  on  too  tightly.  Knitting  should  be 
done  evenly  and  firmly,  and  all  holes  should  be  avoided. 

Joining  should  be  done  by  splicing  or  by  leaving  two  or  three 
inches  at  each  end  of  the  yarn  to  be  darned  in  carefully. 

All  knots,  ridges  or  lumps  should  be  most  carefully  avoided, 
especially  in  socks,  as  they  are  apt  to  blister  the  feet. 

SLEEVELESS  SWEATERS 

Two  and  one-half  hanks  yarn  (%  lb.).  1  pair  Red  Cross 
Needles  No.  3. 

Cast  on  80  stitches.  Knit  2,  purl  2  stitches  for  4  inches.  Knit 
plain  until  sweater  measures  24  inches.  Knit  28  stitches,  bind 
off  24  stitches  for  neck  loose.  Knit  28  stitches,  knit  7  ridges  on 
each  shoulder,  cast  on  24  stitches.  Knit  plain  21  inches.  Purl 
2,  knit  2,  stitches,  for  4  inches.  Sew  up  sides,  leaving  9  inches 
for  armhole,  2  rows  of  single  crochet  around  the  neck,  and  1 
row  single  crochet  around  the  armhole. 


158  "Win  the   War"  Cook  Book 


KNITTED   HELMET 

One  hank  yarn   (J/4  lb.)     4  Red  Cross  Needles  No.  2. 

Cast  on  56  stitches  loosely.  Knit  plain  for  8  inches  for  front 
piece,  and  leave  on  extra  needle.  Knit  another  piece  to  correspond 
for  back.  These  pieces  must  be  at  least  9  inches  wide.  Slip  the 
stitches  of  both  on  to  3  needles,  arranging  for  last  2  stitches  of 
back  piece  to  be  on  beginning  of  1st  needle,  with  38  stitches  of 
front  piece  added  (making  40  on  1st  needle).  Divide  rest  of 
stitches  on  other  2  needles,  36-36.  Beginning  with  1st  needle, 
knit  2,  purl  2,  for  18  stitches.  Bind  off  22  stitches  for  face  open- 
ing. Try  to  keep  same  arrangement  of  stitches  on  needles  for 
further  directions.)  Knit  2,  purl  2  forward  and  back  on  remain- 
ing 90  stitches  for  l1/^  inches,  always  slipping  first  stitch.  Cast 
on  22  stitches  loosely  to  complete  face  opening,  knit  2,  purl  2,  for 
2V2  inches  (adjust  stitches  by  slipping  2  from  end  of  3rd  needle 
to  1st  needle,  making  42  on  1st  needle).  Knit  1  round  plain,  knit 
2  stitches  together,  knit  11,  knit  2  stitches  together,  knit  1.  Re- 
peat to  end  of  round.  Knit  4  rows  plain.  Then  knit  2  stitches 
together,  knit  9,  knit  2  together,  knit  1.  Repeat  to  end  of  round. 
Knit  4  rows  plain.  Continue  in  this  way,  narrowing  on  every 
fifth  round  and  reducing  number  of  stitches  between  narrowed 
stitches  by  2  (as  7,  5,  3,  etc.)  until  you  have  28  stitches  left 
on  needles.  Divide  on  2  needles,  having  14  on  1st  needle  and  14 
on  the  other  and  finish  same  as  toe  of  sock. 


WRISTLETS  NO.  1 

One-half  hank  yarn  (%  lb.).     1  pair  Red  Cross  Needles  No.  2. 
Cast  on  48  stitches,  knit  2,  purl  2,  for  12  inches,  and  sew  up, 
leaving  2  inches  open  space  for  thumb  2  inches  from  the  edge. 


WRISTLETS  NO.  2 


One-half  hank  yarn  (%  lb.).    4  Red  Cross  needles  No.  1. 

Cast  on  52  stitches  on  3  needles,  16-16-20.  Knit  2,  purl  2  for 
8  inches.  To  make  opening  for  thumb,  knit  2,  purl  2,  to  end  of  3rd 
needle,  turn;  knit  and  purl  back  to  end  of  1st  needle,  always 
slipping  first  stitch;  turn,  continue  knitting  back  and  forth  for 
2  inches.  From  this  point  continue  as  at  first  for  3  inches  for 
the  hand.  Bind  off  loosely  and  button-hole  thumb  opening. 


Knitting  159 

MUFFLER 

Two  hanks  of  yarn    (^Ib.).     1  pair  Red  Cross  Needles  No.  3. 
Cast  on  50  stitches,  or  11  inches.     Plain  knitting  for  68  inches. 

WASH-CLOTH 

White  knitting  cotton  (medium  weight),  1  pair  Red  Cross  Nee- 
dles No.  1. 

Cast  on  70  stitches,  knit  back  and  forth  plain  until  cloth  is 
about  10  inches  square,  and  bind  off.  Sew  a  loop  of  tape  to  one 
corner. 

HOT  WATER  BOTTLE  COVER 

White  knitting  cotton  (medium  weight),  1  pair  Red  Cross 
Needles  No.  1. 

Cast  on  56  stitches,  knit  2,  purl  2,  and  repeat  until  the  work  is 
4  inches  deep.  Then  knit  back  and  forth  plain  for  9Mj  inches 
more  or  until  entire  work  measures  13%  inches.  Next  decrease 
2  stitches  at  beginning  and  2  stitches  at  end  of  each  needle 
until  there  are  sixteen  stitches  left  and  bind  off.  Make  another 
piece  in  same  manner  and  sew  together.  Attach  a  20-inch  piece 
of  tape  to  seam  at  one  side  of  ribbing  to  tie  around  neck  of  bottle. 

SOCKS 

One  hank  knitting  yarn.  No.  12  Steel  Needles — four,  or  No.  1 
Red  Cross  Amber  Needles — four. 

LEG 

Cast  on  loosely  60  stitches  (20  on  each  3  needles). 
Knit  2,  purl  2,  making  a  ribbed  calf  for  4  inches. 
Knit  plain  for  6%  inches. 

HEEL 

Take  30  (or  half  of  leg)  stitches  on  one  needle,  knit  across 
and  purl  back,  always  slipping  the  first  stitch  for  24  rows,  or 
until  there  are  12  slipped  stitches  on  edge  of  heel  piece. 

To  turn  heel,  hold  right  side  towards  you  and  1-inch  row,  knit 
17  stitches  (or  two  more  than  half  of  total  number),  slip  1,  knit 
1,  bind  off  the  one  slipped  and  knit  1,  turn. 

Second  row,  slip  1,  purl  5,  purl  2  together,  purl  1  and  turn. 

Third  row,  slip  1,  knit  6,  slip  1,  knit  1,  bind  off  the  one  slipped 
and  knit  1,  turn. 


160  "Win   the   War"   Cook  Book 

Fourth  row,  purl  across  until  you  come  to  stitch  before  space, 
purl  stitches  either  side  of  space  together  and  purl  1,  turn. 

Fifth  row,  knit  until  you  come  to  stitch  before  space,  slip  the 
stitch,  knit  1,  bind  the  one  slipped  and  knit  1. 

Repeat  these  two  rows,  always  slipping  the  first  stitch  until 
all  heel  stitches  have  been  knitted  on  1  needle.  There  should  be 
18  stitches. 

GUSSETS 

First  needle.  Begin  with  right  side  towards  you.  Knit  across 
heel.  Knit  up  the  gusset  or  slipped  stitches  on  side  of  heel  piece 
and  knit  2  stitches  from  the  front  on  this  needle. 

Second  needle.  Knit  the  stitches  from  the  two  front  needles  on 
one  needle  leaving  the  2  last  stitches  to  go  on  third  needle. 

Third  needle.  Take  the  2  stitches  left  from  front  or  second 
needle — pick  up  gusset  stitches  on  second  side  of  heel  and  take 
nine,  or  half,  the  heel  stitches  on  this  needle,  making  the  center 
of  the  heel  the  beginning  of  the  row. 

Knit  first  round  plain. 

Second  round,  first  needle,  knit  to  within  4  of  end  of  needle. 

Knit  2  together,  knit  2. 

Second  needle,  knit  plain. 

Third  needle,  knit  2,  slip  1,  bind  it  over  the  next  stitch  knitted, 

and  knit  plain. 

Repeat  these  two  rounds  until  the  gussets  are  narrowed  down 
to  16  stitches  on  both  side  needles. 

FOOT 

Knit  plain  until  within  2  inches  of  desired  length  (lO1^  and  11 
inches  are  usual  sizes). 

TOE 

Knit  5  stitches  plain,  knit  2  together  and  repeat  to  end  of  row. 
Knit  5  rows  plain. 

Knit  4  stitches  plain,  knit  2  together  and  repeat. 
Knit  4  rows  plain. 

Knit  3  stitches  plain,  knit  2  together  and  repeat. 
Knit  3  rows  plain. 

Knit  2  stitches  plain,  knit  2  together  and  repeat. 
Knit  2  rows  plain. 
Knit  1  stitch  plain,  knit  2  together  and  repeat. 


Knitting  161 

Knit  1   row  plain. 

Knit  2  together — all  the  way  around. 

Break  off  wool  and  draw  through  stitches  and  fasten  smoothly 
on  wrong  side. 

SHIPPING  DIRECTIONS 

Completed  articles  should  be  sent,  if  possible,  to  the  nearest 
Red  Cross  Chapter.  When  this  cannot  be  done,  they  should  be 
sent  directly  to  the  Red  Cross  Division  Supply  Depot  in  the  near- 
est of  the  following  cities: 

Boston  Atlanta  Minneapolis 

New  York  New  Orleans  Denver 

Philadelphia  S[t.  Louis  San  Francisco 

Washington  Cleveland  Seattle 

Chicago 


WHEN  DAY  IS  DONE 

I  have  eaten  a  bale 
Of  spinach  and  kale, 

And  I've  never  raised  a  row. 
I  have  swallowed  a  can 
Of  moistened  bran, 

And  feel  like  a  brindle  cow. 
I  am  taking  a  snack 
From  the  old  haystack, 

In  the  evening  shadows  gray, 
And  I'm  glad,  you  bet, 
At  last  to  get 

To   the    end    of    a    meatless    day. 

— Washington  Star. 


Index 

Measurements  and  Equivalents 11 

Abbreviations     12 

A  Lesson  in  Buying 12 

Table  Weights  and  Measures 13 

Meal  Plans 14 

Calendar  of  Patriotic   Service 15 

Study  of  the  Five  Food  Principles 15 

Composition  of  Cereals 16 

Wheat   Substitutes    17 

Yeast  Bread 17-23 

Liquid  Yeast 

Bread   Tests   23 

How  to   Conserve   Wheat 24 

Comparison  of  Batters  and  Dough_  25 

Process    of   Leavening 25 

Quick  Breads   26-31 

Griddle  Cakes 31-32 

Cereals   32-36 

General  Directions  for  Cooking  Cereals 33 

Meat  Savers  36-73 

Why  You  Should  Use  Meat   Substitutes-  38 

Effect  of  Heat  on  Protein.  38 

Legumes  as  Meat  Substitutes. _  39-44 

Sauces  for  Legume  Loaves 

Nuts  as  Meat  Substitutes.  46-48 
Cheese  as  Meat  Substitutes.  49-54 
Fish  as  a  Meat  Substitute.  55-64 
Sauces  for  Fish_  64 
Poultry  as  Meat  Substitute- 
Meat  Sparers  68-73 
Soups  That  Save.  74-79 
Methods  of  Cooking  Vegetables.  80-85 
Milk  86 
Food  for  Your  Children.  87-90 

White  Sauces 

Eggs  94-96 

Custards    __ 

Comparison  Fats  and  Oils 

Fats  and   Butter   Substitutes.                                 98-108 


164  "Win   the   Wai"   Cook  Book 


Index 


How  to   Save  Fats l L 99 

War   Butter   _.  105 

Conservation    Pie    Crust_  105 

Preparation  and  Properties   of   Soap_         107-108 

Salads  _„  .108-116 

Salad    Dressings    108 

Sugar   Substitutes  117-138 

Suggestive  Methods  for  Conservation  of   Sugar 120 

Sugarless   Candies  120-123 

Cakes   and    Cookies ..124-131 

Pudding  131-135 

Pudding   Sauces 135 

Ice   Creams   and   Fancy   Desserts 136-138 

Menu   for   Conservation   Luncheon 139 

Sterilization   and    Home    Canning 141-146 

Time  Table  for  Canning  Vegetables  and  Fruits 145 

Relishes  146 

Conserves    __  149 

Pickled   Fruit  149 

Marmalades    151 

Jelly  153 

Notes  and  Slogans. _  154 

Rules  to  Save  Gas  or  Fuel 156 

Rules  for  Red  Cross  Knitting 157 

When  Day  is  Done 162 

While  Putting  on  a  Bold  Front,  America  is  Showing  Signs 

of  Weakness  Behind  the  Lines 56 

Her  1918   Cook  Book.  6 


Advertising 


165 


Look  to  Your  Range  Oven  to  help 

CONSERVE 
FOOD    ::    :: 


Ever  think  of  the  food  waste 
that  evaporates  from  a  loosely 
constructed  oven?  There  is  no 
conservation  in  putting  two 
pounds  of  dough  in  your  oven 
and  taking  out  a  1J/2  pound 
loaf  of  bread  —  half  a  pound 
wasted  through'  the  cracks. 

The  oven  of  a  cast  iron  range  or  cook  stove  is  not  tight — at  least  not  after 
expansion  and  contraction  caused  the  stove  putty  to  fall  out  exposing  large 
cracks.  Some  of  your  food  is  bound  to  get  out  of  that  kind  of  oven.  You 
don't  realize  it,  but  in  a  year's  time  it  means  a  tremendous  waste,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  fuel  wasted  to  heat  the  oven  and  the  food  wasted  through 
improper  baking — burnt  on  one  side  and  not  done  on  the  other. 

Not  so  with  the 

GREAT  MAJESTIC  RANGE 

it's  made  of  nonbreakable  malleable  iron  and  rust-resisting  charcoal  iron — 
all  joints  are  rivet  tight — not  an  ounce  of  stove  putty  used.     It  stays  tight 
and  bakes  right  always.     It  positively  reduces  food 
and  fuel  waste  to  the  minimum. 

Help   Win    the   War   with   a 
MAJESTIC  in  Your  Kitchen 

It 's  the  Economical  Way 


MAJESTIC  MFG.  CO. 

2002  Morgan  Street 
St.  Louis,  Mo. 

________  ~    cv 

' ir=ii il ir=ni in==T 


166  "Win  the   WaS'  Cook  Book 


COTTAGE  CHEESE 

The  cheapest  substitute  for  meats 

U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture  Bulletin  A.  I.  24  of  July  llth,  1917,  says 

as  follows: 

1  Ib.  Cottage  Cheese  supplies   as       1  Ib.  Cottage  Cheese  supplies  as 
much  protein  (body  builder)  as  much  energy  as 

1.27  pounds  sirloin  steak  8^  ounces  sirloin  steak 

1:09  round  steak  n^  round  steak 

1.37  chuck  rib  beef  n^  chuck  rib  beef 

1.52  fowl  ioM  fowl 

1.46  fresh  ham  5^  fresh  ham 

1.44  smoked  ham  5  smoked  ham 

1.58  loin  pork  chop  6  loin  pork  chop 

1.31  hind  leg  of  lamb  7^  hind  leg  of  lamb 

1.37  breast  of  veal  12%  breast  of  veal 


BUY  YOUR   REQUIREMENTS  OF 

ST.   LOUIS    DAIRY    COMPANY 

Bomont  995  Central  7490 


When  you  want  something  better  and 
cheaper  than  Butter 

* 

BUY 

TEMTOR    BRAND 

APPLE  BUTTER 
-  PRESERVES  and  JELLIES 

BEST-CLYMER    MANUFACTURING    CO. 

St.  Louis,  Mo. 


Advertising  167 


KROGER  QUALITY 

Has  won  thousands  of  loyal 
customers,  who  at  first  doubted 
the  Quality  on  account  of  the 
Low  Price,  but  after  one  trial 
were  fully  convinced  as  to  the 
superiority  of  Kroger  Quality, 
and  have  remained  our  most 
enthusiastic  customers. 

The  Kroger  Grocery  &  Baking  Co. 

A   Quality  Store  In   Your  Neighborhood 


Mamma's  Pancake  Flour 

A    Real    Conservation    Product 

A  blend   of 

Rice,  Rye,  Barley,  Corn  and 
Wheat  Flour 

Easy  to  make  and  a  real  Economy 

Manufactured  by 

F.  B.  CHAMBERLAIN  COMPANY 

ST.  LOUIS,  U.  S.  A. 


168 


"Win   the   War9'   Cook  Book 


THE  MISSOURI  WOMAN 


Official   organ   of    the 

Missouri 

Woman's  Commit- 
tee, Council  of 
National  Defense 

published  monthly  in 
the  interests  of  'patri- 
otic  women  who 
think  and  do. 

$1.00  a  year 

in  advance 

Send  subscriptions 
direct  to 


Missouri  Miriaii 


the 


State  Headquarters  of 

Woman's  Committee, 
Council  of  National  Defense 

2060  Railway  Exchange,  St.  Louis 

SINCE      I888--HEADQUARTERS      FOR 


PEANUT 


BUTTER 
HALVES 
GRANULATED 
MEAL  AND 
FLOUR 


We  distribute  through  the  wholesale  trade  from  whom 
your  dealer  can  supply  you 

BAYLE  FOOD  PRODUCTS  CO.,  St.  Louis 


Garrison-Wagner  Printing  Co.,  St.  Louis 


In  The  Hour  of  Economy 

USE 
YALE     BRAND     PRODUCTS 


THE 


BRAND 


O  F 


QUALITY 


COFFEES 
TEAS 

SPICES 
EXTRACTS 
MUSTARDS 


'THE  SPICE  OF  THE  HOUR  AND  FLAVORING   POWER.' 


USE  THIS  BRAND  wherever  Spices  are  indicated 
in  Recipes  to  impart  the  true  flavor  and  assure  the 
quality  that  will  give  best  satisfaction. 

Flavor,  Strength  and  Purity  determine  the  value 
of  Spices,  and  it  is  by  testing  in  actual  usage  that  the 
real  quality  can  be  distinguished. 

STEINWENDER-STOFFREGEN 
COFFEE  COMPANY., 

IMPORTERS  &   MANUFACTURERS 

ST.  LOUIS,  U.  S.  A. 


RICHARD   S.  WORMSER 
22  West  48th  Street 


