.-6'  0.' 


^'.  s 


^   '-i-. 


■':.  .^'- 


-5-.  c'^' 


o  0' 


0^ 


.v'?-' 


^V  -/^, 


^■'-:. 


'-^^-^  v^ 


':\.. 


0--     -/".i 


cf-. 


o5  r-. 


^-' 


•^oo^ 


^^ 


.A    -Ki 


-^y    A 


>    -9. 


.^'^; 


■^ 


^■^  '^.. 


O  0 


•^^..    vV 


4^ 


ci-. 


•.'^'      -^ 


•^r 


0' 


%^    -^. 


<v^      -^ct-. 


■'•->. 


.-•^^ 


.0  0 


c,^<^. 


,X>' 


•^   V 


^^.,<^ 


•^>. 


■.';>^  ^<< 


MARGUERITES 


This  15  Ihe  "wsy  Nammo^ 
mejkejlhera. 


Okang!:  Vol-au-vent 


PERFECTION   CAK 


Jtrawberky  >jouffle 


^^ 


SOMETIIINi;  Ni:\V  IN  C'AKK  MAKIN(;. 
Recipes  for  the  above  (leli},'htful  cakes  aw  all  found  within  this  book. 


WOMAN'S     FAVORITE 

COOK  BOOK 


By     ANNIE     R.    GREGORY 

ASSISTED    BY    ONE    THOUSAND    HOMEKEEPERS 


There  is  no  higher  art  than  that  which  tends  tozvards  the 
improvetnc7it  of  human  food.  H.  W.  Beecher. 


COPYKK.IIl',    l(/)2,  IIY 

ANN'ir:     K.     (;i<i:(;oi<Y 


THF  I  IBWARY  OF 

eoNGRtss, 

Two  Coi-ie«   l;6o€ivp* 

MAR  26  "1902 

OLASe  Ct  XXc    N  .. 

W  3  «J  "^ 


7. 


ooF>  a. 


■"0 


^X^ 


v 


'^  To  be  a  good  cook  means  the  economy 
....  of^ourgrcqt-^randmothers  and  the  science 
y\':  o/imodei:/'\^chefnists.  It  means  imich  tast- 
ing and  no  wasting.  It  means  English 
tltQr'(njghni\<is; ._  French  art  and  Arabia?t 
'iw^italityl  *•/?  7neans,  in  fine,  that  you  are 
to  see  that  every  one  has  something  nice  to 
eat.'' — RusKiN. 


17  5 


V   .  ' 


.  ■ntit*f,/tytin..^y^jl-,txnatf(U^a±n/fitnTr^^ 


BOOKS  multiply  rapidly.  Literature  of  every  kind  is  scattered  broad- 
cast and  something  is  to  be  had  for  every  taste.  New  books,  new 
thoughts,  and  new  expressions  of  old  thoughts,  are  plentiful  and  one  is 
tempted  to  ask:     Why  another  volume? 

In  reply  we  beg  to  say  that  even  though  the  name  of  the  books  is 
legion,  there  is  room  for  more  good  ones.  Nay,  there  is  an  urgent  call 
for  books  bearing  on  the  important  needs  of  the  day,  upon  subjects  that 
are  practical  and  useful,  upon  subjects  that  assist  men  and  women  to  make 
the  daily  cares  of  home  and  business  lighter  and  more  cheerful.  So  it  is 
without  apology  that  we  send  forth  this  volume,  asking  that  it  speed 
onward  its  message  until  all  who  desire  "something  new  on  an  old  subject," 
and  all  who  desire  "something  simple  on  a  new  subject,"  shall  have 
been  reached. 

What  is  the  object  of  food?  Why  do  we  eat?  These  queries  interest 
all  humanity  and  have  been  answered  repeatedly  by  intelligent  thinkers. 
We  "eat  to  live";  we  eat  because  waste  is  forever  going  on  in  the  human 
body  and  must  be  replenished.  But,  are  there  not  many  cooks  who  act 
upon  the  supposition  that  the  greater  the  number  of  ingredients  crowded 
'nto  any  one  dish,  the  more  remarkable  the  achievement  and  the  more 
creditable  the  ingenuity  displayed?  This  is  plainly  an  error,  for  all  right- 
thinking  persons  must  admit  that  the  cook  deserving  the  highest  praise  is 
the  one  who  can  prf-pare  the  most  appetizing,  and  at  the  same  time,  the 
most  wholesome  and  nourishing  dishes  from  the  scantiest  and  plainest 
material.  The  man  or  woman  who  can  do  this,  has  not  only  the  ability 
to  think,  and  to  direct,  but  carries  forward  a  thrift  amounting  to  an  art — 
the  highest  art  known  to  domestic  science,  saying  nothing  about  the  aid  to 
happiness  and  longevity. 

9 


10  PREFACE. 

These  thoughts  bring  us  to  the  consideration  of  how  to  effect  a  change 
in  this  direction.  Fortunately,  fashion  is  helping  some  in  this  direction, 
for  we  note  on  all  sides  the  simplicity  with  which  city  breakfasts,  and 
many  country  ones,  are  now  being  served.  We  wish  it  were  so  with  the 
dinner,  but,  alas,  we  fear  that  the  simple  diet  for  breakfast  is  more  than 
offset  by  the  late,  rich  dinner.  But,  as  usual,  we  look  to  the  women. 
Women  are  the  first  to  advance  a  reform,  and  to  them  must  the  world 
look  for  a  continuation  of  this  feeble  awakening  which  has  been  begun  in 
the  breakfast,  and  which,  with  careful  discrimination,  will  prove  the  great- 
est blessing  of  the  age.  To  discard  the  injurious  substances  that  now 
enter  largely  into  the  composition  of  many  of  our  so-called  ''fancy  dishes" 
and  to  avoid  spices,  that  stimulate  without  nourishing,  and  fats,  that  clog 
without  strengthening,  is  to  open  up  a  new  phase  in  human  life.  Pure 
foods,  pure  water,  and  pure  air,  will  give  new  power,  and  when  the  per- 
verted appetite  has  approached  its  normal  condition,  many  of  the  diseases 
that  now  assail  the  human  frame  will  disappear,  thus  making  our  bodies 
fit  temples  for  the  dwelling  of  the  immortal  soul. 

This  volume,  by  a  skilled  home  caterer,  successful  housewife,  and 
ideal  mother,  will  prove  helpful  to  all  classes.  It  is  not  radical,  but  sug- 
gestive, and  is  comprised  in  three  books,  bound  under  one  cover. 

BOOK  I.  is  intended  for  the  inexperienced  housekeeper,  who  has  all 
things  to  learn,  as  well  as  for  the  epicure,  whose  tastes  incline  to  rich  and 
expensive  dishes,  but  whose  pocket-book  demands  economy. 

BOOK  II.  is  devoted  to  various  health  foods — soups,  without  meats 
(more  appetizing  than  any  ever  dreamed  of  in  our  grandmother's  day),  to 
the  cooking  of  vegetables,  cereals,  the  making  of  salads  without  meat, 
etc.,  etc.  It  is  an  up-to-date  guide  in  brain-building,  health-building  and 
happiness. 

BOOK  III.  is  devoted  to  household  economics,  nursing  the  sick,  the 
toilet,  the  care  of  the  kitchen,  laundry,  etc.,  etc. 

Thus,  the  book  (three  volumes  in  one)  is  a  complete  Twentieth  Cen- 
tury Guide  on  all  things  pertaining  to  cookery.  It  teaches  us,  not  only 
what  to  select  for  the  table  and  how  best  to  prepare  it,  but  furnishes  a 
concise  and  ready  manual  for  all  home-keepers,  regardless  of  wealth  or 
station.     Our  blessings  accompany  it. 

THE  PUBLISHERS. 


INTRODUCTION. 


WHEN  I  began  to  save  the  various  "recipes"  and  "suggestions  on 
domestic  economy"  contained  in  this  book,  it  was  with  no  thought 
of  having  them  printed,  but  as  the  collection  grew  and  there  grew  a 
demand  for  just  such  a  book,  I  wrote  something  like  one  thousand  of  my 
acquaintances,  the  following  letter,  which  will  explain  itself: 

"  My  Dear  Friend: 

"At  this,  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  the  thoughts  of  every 
up-to-date  person  are  naturally  turning  toward  that  great  and  important 
subject:  What  shall  we  eat?  The  people  at  large  are  asking  for  a  new 
cook-book,  something  that  will  not  only  tell  us  how  to  make  the  most 
appetizing  foods,  but  healthful  ones,  as  well. 

"To  meet  this  demand,  I  am  about  to  prepare  a  cook-book  on  an 
appetizing  and  healthful  plan.  The  thought  suggested  itself  by  the  rare 
and  delightful  treats  which  I  have  had  at  the  hands  of  a  few  of  my  friends, 
who,  on  various  occasions,  have  sent  me  recipes  for  healthful,  and  yet 
delicious,  breads,  soups,  salads,  cakes,  etc.  These  have  been  so  much 
appreciated  that  I  have  decided  to  ask  my  friends  all  over  the  United 
States,  to  send  one  or  more  of  their  favorite  recipes,  which  I  will  include 
in  the  book.  I  believe  such  a  work  will  be  useful,  for  one  made  up  of 
culled  recipes,  with  the  name  of  each  donor  underneath,  must  be  reliable, 
and  hence,  valuable  to  every  housewife.  I  therefore  invite  you  to  con- 
tribute your  favorite,  with  directions  for  making  same — something  not 
found  in  any  cook-book  to  your  knowledge.  All  these,  bound  in  one  vol- 
ume, will  make  a  soiLvenir  book  that  I  shall  be  proud  to  have,  you  will  be 
glad  to  own,  and  every  woman  will  be  glad  to  possess." 

In  answer  to  this  letter,  I  received  hundreds  of  replies.  P>om  the 
first  letter  received,  I  quote  the  following  extract:  "I  think  your  idea  of 
a  recipe  book,  a  good  one,  and  gladly  contribute  my  favorite,  in  the  line 
of  a  pudding." 

The  second  wrote:  "I  send  a  recipe  for  a  layer  cake,  which,  we  think, 
is  excellent.  Some  have  called  it  the  'Minnehaha  Cake,'  but  while  it  is 
similar  to  the  Minnehaha,  it  is  even  nicer.  I  do  not  know  any  name 
for  it,  but  as  I  live  out  here  on  a  Minnesota  prairie,  will  call  it  the  'Prairie 
Cake.'  " 

11 


n 


INTRODUCTION. 


A  third  wrote:  "As  you  want  a  recipe  not  found  in  other  cook-books, 
I  will  give  you  an  original  one.  My  little  grandson  wanted  I  should  make 
him  a  birthday  cake — one  not  like  other  cakes.  Grandmothers  are  ever 
equal  to  the  occasion;  I  made  one  and  it  was  so  highly  praised,  that  I  have 
been  led  to  make  it  several  times  since — always  with  the  same  result.  We 
call  it  'Leroy's  Birthday  Cake' — you  may  call  it  what  you  like." 

And  still  another  wrote:  "I  have  decided  to  tell  you  my  way  of 
making  bread,  as  it  is  very  simple  and  not  nearly  as  much  trouble  as  the 
way  most  people  make  it.     My  neighbors  think  it  is  excellent," 

Another  wrote:  "I  send  along  with  my  favorite  some  tried  recipes  of 
my  neighbors." 

Another  wrote:  "If  you  can  put  in  only  one  of  my  recipes,  put  in  the 
prescription  for  beautifying  and  making  the  hair  grow.  Every  family 
should  have  it." 

Thus,  dear  friend,  the  helps  and  suggestions  in  the  book  have  been 
gathered  from  many  sources.  Besides  those  which  have  been  sent  by 
friends  from  in  and  out  of  town,  from  States  both  adjoining  and  remote, 
there  are  those  that  have  been  used  in  my  family  for  years.  I  have  given 
credit,  where  it  was  possible  to  remember  from  whom  they  came.  Those 
taken  from  other  books,  are  used  by  the  kind  permission  of  the  authors  or 
publishers.  I  am  greatly  indebted  to  all  who  have  contributed,  or  by  their 
courtesy  made  it  possible  for  me  to  use  their  favorites  in  this  book. 

It  is  not  a  haphazard  collection,  gathered  at  random  from  doubtful 
sources,  but  has  been  made  up,  sparing  neither  labor  nor  expense,  from  the 
choicest  bits  of  the  best  experience  of  many  who  have  long  traveled  the 
daily  round  of  household  duties,  not  reluctantly,  like  drudges,  but  lovingly, 
with  heart  and  hand  fully  enlisted  in  the  work.  May  it  lessen  the  per- 
plexities of  all  who  use  it  as  a  guide  and  stimulate  that  just  pride,  without 
which  great  excellence  is  impossible. 

THE  AUTHOR. 


CONTENTS. 

THREE  THOUSAND  HELPFUL  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES. 


BOOK  L 

Arranging  the  Table — Up-to-Date  Methods 20 

Bread,  Biscuits,  Muffins,  Waffles,   etc 145 

Cakes  and  How  to  Make  Them 231. 

Cakes  (Layer)  and  Fillings  for  Same 249 

Camping  Out — How  and  What  to  Cook 431 

Canned  Fruits  and  Vegetables 392 

Carving 45 

Chafing  Dish  and  Recipes  for  Same 201 

Cheese  and  Cheese  Dishes 179 

Coffee,  Tea,  Cocoa  and  Beverages 363 

Confectionery 35^ 

Cookies,  Doughnuts  and  Small  Cakes 262 

Courses  for  a  Formal  Dinner 23 

Custards,  Creams,  Desserts,  Etc 3^9 

Dinner  Giving 19 

Dinner-Table  Novelties  and  Decorations 21 

Dried  Fruits 39^ 

Eggs  and  Fifty  Ways  to  Cook  Them 187 

Favors  and  Bonbonnieres 27 

Fish 73 

Garnishings 424 

Home  Dinner,  The 28 

How  to  Utilize  Everything 42 

Ice  Creams,  Ices  and  Sherbets 339 

Jellies 385 

Luncheons 29 

Marmalades 3^8 

Meaning  of  Foreign  Words  on  Menu  Cards '.  • .   40 

Meat* — How  to  Select,  Cook  and  Serve 1 19 

Meat  and  Fish  Sauces 4^4 

Pastry,  Pies  and  Tarts 217 

Pickles,  Vinegar  and  Brine 39^ 

Poultry  and  Game ,. 103 

Preserves — Canned  and  Sun  Dried 375 

Puddings  and  Pudding  Sauces 279 

Relishes  and  Catsups 4^6 

Rusisan,  Scotch  and  Other  Afternoon  Teas 30 

Salads  Made  of  Meat,  Fish  and  Shell  Fish 211 

Sandwiches  and  Canapes ^73 

Shell  Fish 89 

Soups  Made  of  Meat 55 

13 


14  CONTENTS. 

Special  Mr.niis  anrl  .Siif^(:jcstions  How  to  Decorate  the  Table 32 

St.  Valentine-'s  Day 38 

Washington's  iiirthrjay 39 

St.  Patrick's  Day 32 

Kaster  .Siinciay 33 

"  "        Injurth  of  July 34 

"  "        Halloween  Parties 35 

Thanksj^ivinj^  Day 36 

"  "       Christmas  Day 37 

Spiced  Fruits 390 

Supper  Parties 31 

Table  ]uiquette 24 

Toasts 167 

Wastefulness 4 1 

BOOK  II. 

Cereals  and  P\irinaceous  Dishes 466 

Fresh  PVuits — How  to  Serve  Them 443 

Health  I'aramount  to  All  Else 436 

Hcmiekeepinj^,    Not    Housekeepin}:^   438 

Ko-nut  Versus  Lard 464 

Nourishinf^  Pro|>erties  of  Various  l^'oorls 439 

Nuts  as  an  Article  of  Diet 474 

.Salads  without  Meats 509 

Soups  without  Meats 451 

Vegetarianism 440 

Vegetables — Their  Importance 485 

Vegetables — How  to  Cook 485 

BOOK  III. 

Dairy,  The 530 

Drinking  Water 549 

Dyeing  and  Coloring 531 

Economics  for  the  }If>use 524 

P'ood  for  the  .Sick  anrl  Con\'aIesce-nt 539 

Happiness  of  Children 553 

Helpful  Laundry  Recipes 522 

Home,  The 520 

I  lousehfjld  I  lints 535 

Infants 551 

In  and  About  the  J  louse 520 

Kitchen,  The 520 

Laundry,  The 521 

Nuisances  About  the  I  louse 581 

Nursery,  The 552 

Prevalent  Disorders  and  Their  Rcmefiies 554 

Sewerage 549 

Sick  anrl  Convalescent.  .    538 

Toilet   Recipes 568 

Toilet  .Suggestions 566 

Ventilation 549 


--^  ILLUSTRATIONS  ^ 


PAGE 

Something  New  in  Cake-Making 6 

Delights  of  Christmas  Time „ •     i8 

Table  Set  for  a  Formal  Luncheon 53 

Table  Set  for  a  Wedding 54 

Rolls 71 

Pretzels 71 

Coffee  Cake 71 

Grandmother's  Brown  Bread .*  71 

All  Kinds  of  White  Bread 71 

Breast  of  Veal 72 

Lamb  Chops  Garnished  with  Peas 72 

Leg  of  Lamb » 72 

Sirloin  Roast ^ 72 

Roast  Chicken 72 

Tenderloin  of  Beef 72 

Fish  and  Shell  Fish „ 121 

Florida  Lemons  with  Dressing 121 

Mrs.  Winter's  Fish  Sauce 121 

Mrs.  Baldwin's  Fish  Balls „  121 

Bride's   Cake „  122 

Birthday  Cake 122 

Geranium  Cake „  122 

Christmas  Cake 122 

Lenten  Salad „  139 

Chicago  Cheese  Bars „ „  139 

Bread  Sticks „  139 

Roast  Capon 139 

Wafers  Long  Branch  Recipe 139 

Bon  B«->n  Boxes — Other  Delights  for  Wee 

Men  and  Women >  140 


PAGE 

Snapping  Mottoes 140 

Drum  Favor 140 

Favor — Sewing  Baskets 140 

Favor — Musical  Instruments 140 

Bonbonniere — Everlasting  Flowers 140 

Dishes  from  the  Field  and  Garden 190 

Delights  for  the  Old  and  Young 207 

Delightful  and  Appetizing  for  Dinner 257 

Chicken  Pie,  Individual 257 

Pickled  Onions „  257 

Grape  Jelly 257 

Fish  Croquettes 257 

Blueberry  Cake 257 

Dressed  Radishes  and  Celery 257 

Stuffed  Olives 257 

White  Mountain  Cream  Puffs 258 

Mother's  Salted  Almonds 258 

Quince  Souffle ^ 258 

Honey  k  la  New  York 258 

Ice  Cream  Cake 258 

Sliced  Lemon  Pie „ 258 

DeUghtful   Recipes   from    North,   South, 

East  and  West 275 

Rice  Croquettes 27; 

Canned  Cherries 275 

Pickled  Peaches 275 

Canned  Peaches 27; 

New  England  Mince  Meat 275 

Doughnuts,  Iowa  Recipe 275 

Montreal  Boneless  Turkey 275 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


PAGE 

Quick,  Simple  and  "Never  Fail"  Recipes  276 

Cream  Oysters  in  Pate  Shells 276 

Cinderella  Cake  for  Boys  and  Girls 276 

Dandy  Ohio  Cake 276 

Raspberry  Bromangelon 276 

Meats,  How  and  What  to  Select 326 

Food   Furnished  by  the  Sea,  Lakes  and 

Rivers 343 

Fresh  Fruits  and  How  to  Serve  Them  410,  461 

Picnics  and  Luncheons 427 

Life  Forces  for  the  Sick  and  Convalescent  461 

Unfermented  Grape  Juice '. 461 

Sweetmeats  for  Social  Gatherings 462 

Stuffed  Prunes 462 

Fig   Bars 462 

Oranges  in  Fancy  Shape 462 

Washed  Figs 462 


Dates      Stuffed      with       Blanched      Al- 
monds   462 

Candy 479 

Stanley's  Fudges 479 

Miss  Parloa's  Chocolate  Creams 479 

Edwin's  Ribbon  Candy 479 

Fancy  Bon  Bon  Baskets 479 

Palmer's  Pineapple  Glace 479 

Janet's  Peppermint  Drops 479 

Ethel's  Candied  Cherries 479 

Crystallized  Lemon 479 

Goodies  for  the  Lunch  Box 480 

Greenacre   Hermits 480 

Cocoanut  Cookies 480 

Nut  Macaroon 480 

Raisin  Pies 480 

Canadian  Coffee  Cake 480 


TIIK  DKLKillTS  OF  CHRISTMAS  TIME. 

(See  index  for  simple  and  up-to-date  recipes.) 


rs 


r^r^o-.-  1  * 


: !  f'. 


JiW 


<jp 


^////////^/ 


"4  4. 


i;^^ 


\ 


p^ 


'.■^o^TSi 


>>< 


ni 


"^•i* 


i^i: 


& 


\ 


WBinner  Giving 

Ifffb  THE  hospitably  inclined,  the 
pleasure   afforded    by   enter- 
taining those  whose  society  is 
desired    is   unsurpassed,    and    no- 
where does  the  host  or  hostess  show 
to  such  advantage  or  disadvantage, 
as  at  the  dinner-table. 
To  give  a  dinner  gracefully,  however,  requires 
tact;  indeed,   it  may  be  said  to  be  an  art,  to  so 
select  one's  guests  and  so  arrange  them  at  the 
table  that  no  lack  of  harmony  will  mar  the  occa- 
sion '  The  hostess  must  be,  to  a  certain  extent,  ac- 
quainted with  the  peculiarities  of  each  guest,  and 
in  placing  them,  she  should  carefully  avoid  seat- 
ing two  persons  of  opposite  natures  side  by  side. 
She   should   study   her   guests,    as    it  were; 
should  allot  the  charming  talker  to  the  equally 
charming  listener,  and  the  opinionated  person  to 
the  passive  and  yielding  disposition.     A  dmner 
should  be  a  function  where  no  obstacles  to  ease 
and  enjoyment  exist.     It  is  generally  understood 
that  all  present  are  desirable  persons  and 
yet  an  acquaintanceship  begun  under  such 
auspices   need    not   extend    beyond    the 
occasion  that  gave  it  birth  unless 
so  desired. 
//^](0V^^^  19 


20  DINNER  GIVING. 

Invitations  to  a  dinner  party  are  issued  ten  days  or  two  weeks  in 
advance  of  the  event.  The  recipients  of  the  invitation  should  reply  at 
once,  as  to  their  ability  to  accept.  This  gives  the  hostess  a  chance  to  fill  a 
possible  vacancy.  These  invitations  can  be  sent  by  post,  but  are  better, 
because  of  more  sure  delivery,  sent  by  messenger. 

In  giving  a  dinner  an  old  saying  should  ever  be  kept  in  mind:  "Good 
humor  garnishes,  good  will  beautifies,  and  good  feeling  gladdens  more 
effectively  than  flowers,  handsome  china,  or  expensive  silverware." 

To-day  a  hostess  of  moderate  means  can  invite  fifty  or  even  one  hun- 
dred guests,  for  an  informal  party,  without  ever  looking  to  the  florist  or 
the  caterer  for  help,  provided  she  herself  is  accomplished  in  that  finest  of 
fine  arts — entertaining;  she  must,  though,  know  how  to  bring  people 
together,  know  how  to  group  them  diplomatically;  how  to  bring  out  the 
harmonies  of  each  nature;  how  to  stimulate  and  inspire.  If  she  can  do 
this,  then  the  results  will  be  quite  as  satisfactory  as  though  she  had  unlim- 
ited wealth  and  the  command  of  all  Christendom  at  her  feet.  It  has  been 
well  said  that  the  responsibility  of  the  hostess  is  far  less  for  the  "warming, 
lighting  and  feeding"  of  her  guests  than  it  is  for  the  personal  happiness  of 
every  one  who  crosses  her  doorstep. 

ARRANGING  THE  TABLE. 

The  first  requisite  for  a  well-ordered  table  is,  snowy,  fine,  damask  linen. 
The  napkins  and  table-cloth  should  be  of  good  size  and  the  dishes  should 
shine  with  brightness.  Underneath  the  cloth,  padding  should  be  laid. 
A  table,  when  properly  set,  is  a  picture  of  loveliness — cut  glass,  silver, 
dainty  dishes,  with  a  background  of  white,  appeal  to  the  eye  of  the  artist 
and  why  not  to  the  guest,  giving  zest  to  the  viands  that  are  spread. 

As  to  the  manner  of  "setting"  the  table,  there  are  some  differences  of 
opinion  and  greater  differences  of  customs.  At  the  strictest  of  houses, 
there  are  as  many  knives,  forks  and  spoons  placed  at  the  different  places, 
as  there  are  courses  to  be  served.  The  knives  lie  on  the  right  of  the 
plate,  and  a  row  of  forks  on  the  left;  the  oyster  fork  on  the  outside. 
There  are  usually  four  forks  and  three  knives;  a  steel  knife  for  meat  being 
one  of  them.  The  soup  spoon  lies  next  to  the  napkin.  The  napkin 
(which,  by  the  way,  should  never  be  starched)  is  placed  directly  in  front 
of  each  guest.  Individual  salt  and  pepper  bottles  are  at  hand,  and  if  but- 
ter is  needed,  individual  butter  plates  are  called  into  use.  A  goblet  is  set 
at  every  plate. 

A  certain  scheme  of  color  is  chosen,  and  everything  on  the  table  har- 
monizes with  it.     The  flowers  adorning  the  table  are  delicately  scented 


DINNER  GIVING.  21 

and  pleasant  to  all.,  There  are  many  who  dislike  the  heavily-scented 
tuberoses  and  syringas,  but  roses,  lilies,  carnations  and  lilacs  are  always 
agreeable.  The  dining-room  is  carpeted,  or  if  the  floor  is  hardwood, 
large  rugs  are  used  to  deaden  the  foot-steps. 

In  lighting  the  table,  lamps  and  gas  are  the  most  common  method  of 
illumination,  but  the  preference  is  in  favor  of  wax  candles,  as  they  afford 
good  opportunity  for  decorative  effects  and  make  pretty  shadows.  The 
shades  to  the  candles  match  in  color  the  other  decorations.  In  country 
places,  the  beautiful  old  lamps  of  odd  designs  with  colored  globes,  are 
used,  with  fine  effect. 

The  tables  used  are  various — round,  oval,  or  oblong.  Many  have 
large  oval  tops  made  which  fit  over  extension  tables,  when  an  unusual 
number,  like  twenty  or  thirty,  are  invited.  The  advantage  of  an  oval  top 
is  that  one  can  get  a  better  view  of  the  company  present  and  the  ensemble, 
as  a  whole. 

DINNER  TABLE  NOVELTIES  AND  DECORATIONS. 

To  the  artistically  inclined,  an  infinite  variety  of  surprises  in  the  way 
of  table  decorations  is  possible.  The  custom  generally  in  vogue  at  the 
present  time,  is  flat  center-pieces.  If  the  table  be  oval,  a  pretty  cut-glass 
bowl,  filled  with  any  low,  sweet-scented  flowers,  is  in  good  taste,  keeping 
ever  in  mind  the  fact  that  all  colors  should  harmonize.  Underneath  the 
bowl,  an  oval,  beveled-edge  mirror  or  a  round,  fancy  cut-glass  mirror  can 
be  placed  with  good  effect.  Over  the  table-cloth,  a  few  carelessly  strewn 
rose  petals,  yellow  and  red,  or  red  alone,  are  pretty  and  novel— these  being 
appropriate  only  when  roses  are  used  as  a  center-piece. 

The  square  table  is  more  picturesque  looking,  when  a  square  doily, 
either  embroidered  or  of  Battenberg  lace,  is  placed  in  the  center.  For 
those  who  can  afford  the  Battenberg  table-cloth,  nothing  can  be  more 
exquisite.  They  are  appropriate  for  oval,  square,  or  extension  tables. 
For  a  long  table  a  Battenberg  scarf,  extending  two-thirds  the  length  of 
the  table,  is  very  rich  and  handsome.  On  one  table,  seating  twenty  or 
more  persons,  two  or  three  floral  pieces  can  be  used,  intertwined  with 
smilax,  with  fine  effect. 

For  receptions  and  weddings,  medium  wide  satin  ribbons,  pink,  cream 
or  blue,  with  or  without  smilax,  fastened  to  the  chandelier  or  attached  to 
the  ceiling  and  festooned  to  the  four  corners  of  the  table,  then  looped 
and  finished  with  bows  of  the  same,  are  gay  and  charming  in  effect.  The 
same  colored  satin  ribbons,  crossed  at  the  center  of  the  table  and  fastened 
at  the  corners,  are  also  very  effective;    so,  also,  is  one  streamer  of  ribbon. 


22  DINNER   GIVING. 

diagonally  crossing  the  table,  with  generous  handsome  bows  at  either 
point  of  attachment. 

Ferns  of  all  varieties  are  very  handsome  and  appropriate,  for  either 
special  occasions  or  for  ordinary  use.  Smilax  deeply  festooned  round  the 
chandelier  or  suspended  from  the  ceiling,  reaching  well  to  the  table,  is 
ever  appropriate  for  public  gatherings  and  suggestive  of  freshness,  dainti- 
ness and  beauty.  Asparagus  in  its  fragility,  suspended  in  the  same  way 
and  carried  to  the  four  corners  of  the  room,  and  on  it  loosely  hung  fresh 
roses,  pinks,  jasmine  or  lilies,  is  a  sweet  bit  of  luxury.  The  same  is  true 
of  autumn  leaves  strung  on  a  thread  lengthwise,  and  hung  fringe-like 
all  around  the  sides  of  the  room,  not  forgetting  the  table  on  which  they 
should  be  securely  fastened  by  a  blind  thread.     These  are  most  catchy. 

I  can  conceive  how  beautiful  the  country  dining-room  may  be  made  to 
appear  in  spring  with  a  generous  use  of  apple-blossoms,  loosely  twined 
and  festooned,  also  made  into  garlands  for  the  wall,  reserving  ever  a 
generous  supply  of  the  latter,  to  crown  the  heads  of  the  guests.  Then 
again,  in  the  fall,  there  are  the  pumpkin-vines,  corn  tied  together  by  the 
husks,  stems  of  luscious  apples,  all  of  which  surpass  anything  made  by  art. 
Then  there  are  the  wax  candles  with  the  pretty  colored  shades  and  the 
lamps  with  the  transparent  globes  that  produce  a  sense  of  dreamland,  to 
say  nothing  about  those  favored  dining-rooms  which  permit  of  a  good 
view  of  the  brilliant  sunsets  of  August  and  September.  Subdued  lights 
are  always  prettier  than  bright  lights,  especially  so  at  the  opening  of  the 
dinner. 

Going  back  a  moment  to  decorations,  I  believe  the  country  homes  are 
the  ones  most  favored  for  display.  My  mind  carries  me  back  to  girlhood 
and  the  Christmas  times  when  grandmother  invited  all  her  children  and 
grandchildren  for  a  home  gathering  and  how  like  fairy-land  she  made  the 
festal  board.  The  sweet  smelling  spruce  was  brought  into  use,  and 
everywhere  were  set  these  trees  and  branches,  sparkling  with  crystals, 
converting  the  old-fashioned  home  into  a  veritable  ice  palace — a  fit  place 
for  Santa  Claus'  reception.  The  secret  she  told  us  was  this:  The  spruce 
was  first  dipped  into  a  weak  solution  of  glue,  then  rolled  in  crushed  alum 
(not  powdered).  You  who  have  never  seen  the  effect,  just  try  it  once  and 
see  how  like  a  million  dew-drops  in  the  sun  it  appears. 

Then  there  was  the  china  that  sparkled  and  the  glass  that  shone  like 
jewels.  Faded  flowers  she  restored  to  freshness  by  first  cutting  the  stems 
and  putting  them  in  very  hot,  then  in  very  cold  water;  setting  them  in  the 
cold  storeroom  till  they  were  called  into  use.  You  would  be  surprised  to 
see  them  come  on  the  table,  as  fresh  as  though  they  had  never  been  faded. 


DINNER   GIVING.  23 


SERVING  THE  DINNER. 

In  cities  the  usual  hour  for  a  dinner  party  is  seven  o'clock;  in  country 
places  it  is  frequently  earlier  in  the  day.  When  the  last  guest  has  arrived, 
dinner  is  announced.  The  host  leads  the  way  with  the  lady  whom  he 
wishes  to  honor  and  the  hostess  comes  last  with  the  gentleman  whom  she 
wishes  to  honor. 

The  giving  of  a  dinner  is  the  most  important  of  all  the  duties  of  a  host- 
ess. She  must  not  betray  ignorance  or  show  nervousness,  for  she  alone 
is  responsible  for  its  entire  success.  The  serving-maid  should  be  trained 
to  keep  cool  and  avoid  accidents.  The  number  invited  and  the  outlay 
expended  should  depend  upon  circumstances  and  one's  means. 

The  favorite  form  of  serving  a  formal  dinner  is  called  a  la  Riisse. 
The  articles  of  food  are  carved  by  the  servants  at  a  side  table  or  in  the 
kitchen  and  brought  to  the  guests.  This  has  one  advantage;  it  allows  the 
host  and  hostess  more  time  for  social  enjoyment  with  their  guests.  But 
it  calls  for  well-trained  servants  to  perform  this  duty  satisfactorily.  It 
requires  about  one  servant  to  every  six  guests;  therefore,  when  dinner  is 
served  in  this  fashion,  where  the  help  is  inadequate,  it  is  well  to  engage 
outside  assistance. 

For  a  home-like,  informal,  dinner,  where  the  host  does  the  carving, 
one  servant  can  wait  upon  twelve  persons  and  do  it  well  if  properly  trained. 
On  a  table  or  sideboard  should  be  placed  the  plates  for  the  various 
courses,  s«naller  spoons,  finger-bowls,  coffee-cups  and  saucers.  As  the 
plates  from  each  course  are  removed,  they  should  be  taken  to  the  kitchen. 

The  waiter  should  approach  the  guests  from  the  left  except  in  serving 
water,  coffee,  or  anything  of  a  like  nature.  The  color  and  flavor  of  the 
various  courses  should  be  as  different  from  each  other  as  possible,  offering 
all  the  foods  in  their  respective  seasons  and  of  the  finest  quality. 

COURSES   FOR   A    FORMAL   DINNER. 

First  course:  Oysters,  as  a  rule,  should  be  served  at  the  beginning  of  a 
dinner,  though  they  are  used  only  in  those  months  of  the  year  in  which 
the  letter  "r"  occurs.     The  balance  of  the  year  little  neck  clams  are  used. 

The  second  course  consists  of  a  soup,  the  clear  soup  being  preferred, 
accompanied  by  crackers  or  bread.     Celery  may  be  served  also. 

The  third  course  consists  of  fish,  boiled  or  fried,  and  should  be 
accompanied  by  small  boiled  potatoes;  if  broiled  or  cooked  in  any  fancy 
manner,  serve  radishes. 

Fourth  course:  An  entrde  is  next  in  order  if  desired;  it  should  be  made 


24  DINNER   GIVING. 

in  a  fancy  way,  so  as  to  avoid  carving;  bread  should  be  the  accompani- 
ment. Relishes,  such  as  olives,  salted  almonds,  etc.,  are  served  with  this 
course. 

T\\&/tfth  cotirsc  consists  of  roasts.  These  may  be  composed  of  beef, 
veal,  mutton,  lamb,  venison,  turkey,  duck,  goose,  or  capon,  accompanied  by 
one  or  two  vegetables. 

Sixth  coicrse:  Punch  or  sherbet  may  be  dispensed  with  or  not,  as  fancy 
dictates. 

The  seventh  coiLi'se  consists  of  snipe,  prairie-chicken,  squabs,  etcf,  but 
poultry,  such  as  spring-chickens,  or  duck,  may  be  served  instead. 

Eighth  course:  Any  appetizing  salad  with  cheese  wafers. 

Ninth  conrse:  Hot  and  cold  sweet  dishes,  consisting  of  puddings,  ice 
creams,  cakes,  etc. 

Tenth  course:  Fresh  fruits  and  bonbons. 

Last  course:  Turkish  or  black  coffee  served  demi-tasse. 

The  above  makes  a  pleasant  menu,  but  it  can  be  made  simpler  or 
more  elaborate  as  one  chooses. 

Before  serving  the  dessert  all  the  dishes  should  be  removed,  save  the 
drinking  glasses,  and  all  crumbs  should  be  lifted  from  the  cloth  by  means 
of  the  crumb  knife  and  tray.  A  dessert  plate  and  dessert  spoon  and  knife, 
provided  they  are  needed,  should  then  be  placed  in  front  of  each  guest. 
Coffee  (made  after  the  manner  of  after-dinner  coffee)  should  be  passed 
last,  demi-tasse,  and  served  clear.  Sugar  and  cream  should  follow,  in 
order  that  those  who  prefer  either  or  both,  may  help  themselves  as  they 
please. 

TABLE    ETIQUETTE. 

A  host  or  hostess  should  never  allude  to  the  quality  of  the  dishes  or 
contents — either  is  in  poor  taste.  The  guests  will  discover  their  excellence 
without  assistance. 

If  a  guest  does  not  care  for  a  certain  article  do  not  press  it  upon  him. 

Do  not,  in  serving,  overload  the  plates. 

Do  not  finger  knife,  fork,  dishes  or  anything  on  the  table. 

Do  not  overload  the  fork. 

Do  not  leave  the  knife  and  fork  crossed  on  the  plate  when  you  have 
finished,  but  leave  them  parallel  on  the  plate,  the  tines  of  fork  down,  the 
knife  to  the  right  and  the  sharp  edge  next  to  the  fork. 

Do  not,  under  any  circumstances,  put  the  knife  in  the  mouth. 

Do  not  drink  from  the  saucer. 

Do  not  rise  from  the  chair  to  reach  anything. 


DINNER   GIVING.  25 

Do  not  tip  the  soup-plate,  or  put  the  end  of  the  soup-spoon  in  the 
mouth,  except  when  eating  oyster-soup. 

Soup  should  be  eaten  from  the  side  of  the  spoon  and  taken  from  the 
further  side  of  the  plate  by  moving  the  spoon  from  you. 

Close  the  mouth  when  chewing. 

Never  make  a  hissing  sound  when  eating  soup. 

Never  cut  bread,  but  break  it,  buttering  each  piece  as  it  is  eaten. 

Never  reach  across  others. 

Bread  should  be  buttered  on  the  edge  of  the  plate,  never  in  mid-air. 

Olives  should  be  taken  with  the  fingers. 

The  fork  should  be  used  for  croquettes,  patties  and  most  made  dishes, 
and  must  be  used  equally  well  in  either  hand.  Never  eat  anything  with  a 
spoon  that  can  be  eaten  with  a  fork. 

Do  not  hesitate  to  take  the  last  piece. 

Do  not  move  the  chair,  but  seat  yourself  quietly. 

Look  into,  not  over,  the  cup  or  glass  when  drinking. 

Never  quite  fill  the  spoon,  it  is  bad  form. 

A  lady,  if  in  a  restaurant  or  hotel,  rises  when  another  stops  to  speak 
to  her,  even  though  she  is  seated  at  the  table. 

A  gentleman  half  unfolds  his  napkin  and  places  it  over  the  left  knee. 

Do  not  mop  the  face  with  the  napkin. 

Napkins  should  be  unfolded  below  the  level  of  the  table  and  as  unob- 
trusively as  possible. 

Never  tuck  the  napkin  under  the  chin  or  in  the  waistcoat. 

Soft  cheese  may  be  put  on  the  cracker  with  a  knife.  Hard  cheese  is 
taken  in  the  fingers. 

If  the  host  is  carving,  at  a  family  table,  it  is  not  necessary  to  wait  until 
all  are  served  before  beginning  to  eat. 

The  spoon  is  used  for  berries  and  cream,  stewed  fruit,  peaches  and 
cream  and  soft  desserts. 

Crackers  or  bread  should  not  be  broken  into  the  soup,  but  eaten  from 
the  fingers. 

Strawberries  served  with  the  stem,  are  eaten  with  th^  fingers. 

The  fork  should  be  raised  laterally  and  not  in  such  a  fashion  as  to 
bring  it  at  right  angles  to  the  mouth. 

The  smaller  knife,  of  two  at  the  plate,  should  be  used  for  fish, 
Never  use  a  steel  knife  for  fish. 

Side  dishes  of  vegetables  should  be  placed  at  the  left  and  eaten  with  a 
fork. 

Never  smear  the  meat  with  mustard  or  sauce  of  any  kind;  place  it  at 
the  side. 


2G  DINNER   GIVING. 

Never  transfer  the  fork  from  one  hand  to  the  other. 

Ne^er  drink  with  the  spoon  in  the  cup. 

Do  not  leave  the  spoon  in  the  cup  after  stirring  coffee  or  tea,  but 
place  it  in  the  saucer. 

Do  not  rest  the  elbow  on  the  table. 

The  knife  should  be  taken  by  the  handle  only,  resting  the  forefinger 
on  the  upper  part  of  the  blade. 

The  fork  should  be  used  for  mashing  and  eating  potatoes.  Never 
touch  potato  with  a  knife,  except  to  butter  it. 

Ice  cream  may  be  eaten  with  either  a  spoon  or  ice-cream  fork. 

Pass  anything  which  you  see  is  desired,  even  to  a  stranger. 

When  through  dinner  the  napkin  should  be  left  unfolded,  unless  at 
home. 

Ladies  should  always  be  served  before  gentlemen. 

Never  place  toothpicks  on  the  table  and  never  use  a  toothpick  at 
the  table. 

Never  talk  with  the  mouth  full. 

Never  take  a  piece  of  bread  with  a  fork. 

Never  put  glasses  on  the  table  with  the  stems  up. 

Never  blow  on  soup  or  coffee  to  cool  it. 

Never  smack  the  lips. 

Never  leave  the  table  with  food  in  the  mouth. 

Never  put  salt  on  the  table-cloth. 

Always  eat  slowly. 

Gentlemen  should  seat  ladies  first. 

Do  not  bend  over  the  plate  for  each  mouthful. 

Carry  food  to  the  mouth  with  an  inward,  not  an  outward,  curve  of 
the  fork  or  spoon. 

Do  not  spread  the  elbows  in  cutting  meat. 

Knives,  forks  and  spoons  should  be  placed  on  the  table  for  all  the 
courses  except  the  dessert. 

Finger-bowls  are  filled  one-third  full  of  tepid  water,  and  are  placed 
on  the  table  only  when  fruit  is  eaten,  and  after  a  meal.  The  finger-tips 
only  should  be  dipped  in  the  finger-bowl. 

The  handles  of  the  knife  and  fork  should  rest  in  the  palms  of  the 
hands. 

Do  not  tip  up  the  glass  or  cup  too  much  when  drinking,  but  keep  it  at 
a  slight  angle. 

Do  not  ask  any  one  whether  he  wishes  more  potato,  etc.,  but  some 
potato. 


DINNER   GIVING.  27 

Do  not  reach  after  a  knife,  fork  or  spoon  that  Is  dropped  but  ask  for 
another. 

Do  not  oblige  the  carver  to  make  a  selection  for  you  when  asked  what 
part  of  the  fowl  you  prefer,  but  answer  promptly,  giving  your  preference. 

Do  not  eat  onions  or  garlic  unless  intending  to  remain  alone. 

Do  not  eat  after  passing  a  plate  for  another  to  the  carver,  until  the 
plate  has  been  returned. 

Do  not  twist  the  feet  around  the  legs  of  the  chair. 

A  crumb  knife  or  fresh  napkin  should  be  used  in  brushing  crumbs 
from  the  table. 

Never  shove  dishes  on  the  table;  always  pass  them. 

Never  shove  yourself  from  the  table. 

Never  touch  the  face  or  head  at  the  table  or  fuss  with  the  hands. 

Never  suck  an  orange. 

Never  spit  seeds  of  fruit  on  the  plate,  but  take  them  out  of  the  mouth 
with  a  spoon  and  lay  them  on  the  plate. 

Never  take  a  larger  mouthful  than  will  allow  you  to  speak  with  ease- 
Never  hold  the  spoon  so  that  the  handle  rests  in  the  palm  of  the  hand. 

Never  loll  back  in  your  chair  or  lean  against  the  table,  but  sit  upright. 

Never  make  introductions  after  the  guests  are  seated. 

Never  lift  a  glass  by  the  rim;  take  goblets  by  the  stem  and  tumblers 
near  the  bottom. 

Never  ask  whether  any  one  will  have  some  meat,  but  whether  he  will 
have  roast  beef,  beefsteak,  or  whatever  kind  of  meat  is  served. 

When  asking  for  anything  at  the  table  mention  the  party's  name 
when  you  speak. 

Do  not  give  any  one  at  the  table  the  trouble  of  waiting  upon  you  if 
there  be  a  servant  in  the  room. 

Do  not,  when  at  a  private  table,  leave  until  all  have  finished. 

Gentlemen  remaining  for  cigars,  rise  when  the  ladies  do,  and  remain 
standing  until  they  have  left  the  room. 

Gentlemen  allow  the  ladies  to  pass  out  first  en  masse,  if  all  leave  the 
dining-room. 

Wear  evening  dress  at  a  formal  dinner  party.  Wear  gloves  and  do 
not  take  them  off  until  seated  at  the  table. 

FAVORS   AND  BONBONNIERES. 

The  custom  of  giving  is  looked  upon  with  so  much  favor  by  the  fash- 
ionably inclined,  that  a  word  regarding  small  gifts  and  bonbonnieres  will 
perhaps  be  appreciated  in  these  pages. 


28  DINNER   GIVING. 

We  are  never  too  old  to  admire  pretty  things  and  if  there  are  those 
who  desire  to  give  favors  at  a  luncheon,  this  may  help  suggest  a  few 
home-made  ones  which  are  always  more  highly  appreciated  than  expen- 
sive, bought  articles. 

Little  six  and  eight-sided,  round  or  square  bonbon  boxes,  covered 
with  satin  on  which  are  painted  or  embroidered  leaves,  vines  or  bits  of 
scenery,  are  very  handsome  as  gifts  and  suggest  a  bit  of  love  stitched  up 
in  the  making.  The  boxes  should  be  padded,  satin  lined,  and  the  recipi- 
ent's monogram  on  the  outside  of  the  cover. 

At  Easter  time,  bonbon  boxes  in  the  shape  of  easter  eggs  with  artistic 
satin  bows  on  top,  are  not  without  appropriateness.  The  favors  at  a 
George  Washington  luncheon  are  pretty,  made  of  papier-mdch^  in  the 
form  of  hatchets  pasted  over  with  silver  paper.  On  top,  a  bunch  of  red 
cherries  (wax),  held  in  place  by  a  bow  of  red,  white  and  blue  ribbon,  sug- 
gests to  the  eye  uniqueness  and  is  an  effective  souvenir  as  well. 

Baskets  of  various  styles  are  pretty  as  plum-holders  and  useful  as 
well  as  decorative.  Some  of  these  baskets  are  afterwards  used  to  hold 
needles,  thread  and  thimble;  others  jewelry  and  still  others  become  per- 
manent fruit  baskets  in  the  boudoir.  These  baskets  can  have  one  handle, 
or  two,  or  three,  the  latter  covered  with  gilt  is  prettiest  of  all.  On  the  side 
can  be  placed  rich  bows  of  ribbon,  colored  butterflies,  silvered  beetles, 
four-leaf  clovers,  or  anything  fancy  suggests  and  means  permit. 

Silk  muffs,  fans,  bracelets,  cut-glass,  jewelry,  etc.,  are  often  given  by  a 
member  of  the  graduating  class  to  the  others  whom  one  wishes  to  honor 
with  a  luncheon.  Imitation  guitars,  banjos,  drums,  skiffs,  rowboats,  etc., 
all  have  their  little  day  as  fashionable  favors.  Brides  frequently  in  giving 
a  dinner  for  the  bridesmaids,  provide  favors  ranging  all  the  way  from  two 
dollars  in  value  to  two  hundred.  So  we  might  go  on,  but  suffice  it  to  say 
we  have  suggested  a  sufficient  number  to  enable  one  to  work  out  a  favor 
scheme  satisfactory  to  themselves. 

THE  HOME  DINNER. 

This  function  naturally  partakes  more  of  a  social  character  than  the 
formal,  ceremonious,  dinner.  But  the  same  exactness  and  precision 
should  be  observed,  and  the  same  rules  for  making  the  occasion  one  of 
taste  and  enjoyment  as  its  more  pretentious  neighbor.  If  more  than  one 
course,  lay  extra  forks  by  each  plate.  The  soup  tureen,  with  the  soup 
dishes,  may  be  brought  to  the  table,  and  set  before  the  mistress  of  the 
house,  who  can  serve  it  to  the  family.     If  a  servant  is  at  hand,  she  should 


DINNER   GIVING.  29 

pass  the  soup  to  each  one.     She  must  hand  it  from  the  left  side.     After 
the  soup,  hot  plates  are  brought  in  for  the  next  course. 

At  the  home  table  the  gentleman  of  the  house  does  the  carving. 
The  meat  is  passed  as  was  the  soup,  and  the  vegetables,  save  those  served 
in  vinegar,  which  are  placed  in  side-dishes.  The  small  vegetable  dishes 
are  not  used  save  in  the  instances  mentioned,  as  too  many  suggests  board- 
ing-house style. 

The  home  dinner  should  be  made  as  attractive  and  agreeable  as  pos- 
sible, for  it  is  the  season  when  the  family  all  meet,  with  a  sense  of  privacy 
and  loosening  of  restraint.  The  refined  character  of  the  occasion  is 
stamped  as  plainly  as  on  the  larger  display,  and  all  the  details  should  be 
carried  out — the  silver  should  be  as  polished,  the  linen  as  white  and  spot- 
less, and  the  food  as  well  prepared  as  though  it  were  designed  for  strangers. 

The  manners  of  the  home  circle  should  be  carefully  guarded.  It  is 
so  easy  to  find  fault,  to  omit  a  polite  attention,  or  to  grumble,  when  stran- 
gers are  not  present.  On  all  and  every  occasion  the  same  order  and  neat- 
ness should  prevail,  and  though  the  number  of  dishes  may  be  fewer,  and 
their  concoction  plainer,  still  the  appointments  of  the  table  can  be  so  per- 
fect, the  welcome  accorded  so  warm,  that  those  minor  matters  will  be 
entirely  ignored  or  overlooked. 

Good  manners  in  the  home  should  be  strenuously  insisted  on.  The 
child  who  sees  his  father  come  to  the  table  in  his  shirt  sleeves,  or  his 
mother  in  a  soiled  wrapper,  will  scarcely  be  ready  to  observe  nice  details 
of  dress  when  applied  to  his  own  case. 

LUNCHEONS. 

A  modern  luncheon  is  a  very  convenient  meal,  permitting  of  an 
irregular  number,  and  a  great  variety  of  displays.  It  can  be  made  expen- 
sive or  not,  as  occasion  demands.  Many  luncheons,  like  many  dinners, 
are  apt  to  be  over  sumptuous.    The  ideal  luncheon  is  quite  a  simple  affair. 

Roasts  and  joints  are  never  served  but  entries  and  cold  dishes  instead. 
Table-cloths  are  still  frequently  used,  but  the  newer  idea  is  the  use  of 
highly-polished  tables.  These,  when  decorated  with  doilies  and  flowers, 
give  a  peculiarly  antique  effect,  far  surpassing  in  charm  even  the  richest 
damask.  At  the  embroidery  shops  many  centerpieces  and  doilies  for 
these  occasions  are  being  shown.  A  pretty  set,  recently  made  by  a  friend, 
intended  for  "the  salad"  course,  consists  of  a  round  mat  for  the  bowl,  with 
smaller  ones  for  the  plates.  The  patterns  are  mostly  wreaths  of  brier 
roses  and  vines. 

A   pleasant    innovation   in   summer,   and    one    especially   adapted    to 


30 


DINN/iK   GIVING. 


spacious  hoiTi(;s,  is  to  serve  the  lunclK^on  on  th(;  piazzas  or  in  sliadc'd  spots 
around  the  yard.  This  agreeable  change  brings  about  a  sociability  that 
delights  the  reserv(;(l  and  ph;ases  even  the  most  fastidious. 

The  niciui  can  \)v  simple'  or  elaborate.  Guests  scat  themselves  where 
they  please  unless  cards  desi<j;^naU;  wh(;re  each  is  to  sit.  The  hostess  in  all 
cases  occupies  the  head  of  the  table.  The  following  are  two  of  the  many 
menus  that  can  be  easily  and  neatly  served. 

MENUS. 

1.  2. 

I'ii'sf  roiirsc, 
I  I.il\('(l  ^.ji'apc  I  I'll  it. 

St-<(>/i(i  (Oitysc, 
HouilloM. 


Third  course, 
Choi)s  with  j)cas 

Fourth  course, 
.Salad. 


First  course. 
Cantaloupe. 

Second  course, 
Clams  on  half-shell. 

Third  course. 
Oyster  patties. 

Four  til  course. 
Creamed  chicken. 


Fifth  course. 
Ice  Cream.      Fruit. 


I'^ifth  course, 
I(c.      Bonbons. 

I  dropped  into  a  friend's  a  few  days  a^o  just  at  lunch  time,  and  found 
her  alone  no  maid  and  no  husband.  She  apologized  for  the  lack  of 
luncheon  but  said  slu^  would  be  glad  to  have  me  take  a  cup  of  coffee  with 
her.  'IMien  she  brought  out  a  platen  of  crisi)y,  salt  soda  wafers  and  a  little 
roll  of  delicate  Neufchatel  che(;st;,  which  she  s|)read  upon  the  crackers 
with  just  a  dash  of  paprika.  Could  anything  be  nicer?  'Ilie  lunch  was 
delicious,  appetizing  and  nutritious. 

RUSSIAN,  SCOTCH    AND   OTHER   AFTERNOON   TEAS. 

The  "1mv(!  O'clock  Tea,"  as  it  was  originally  called,  has  been  turned 
iiUo  an  iidormal  "at  home,"  where  light  refreshnuMits  are  served.  Vo\-- 
\\\v\\y  tlie  hostess  presided,  pouring  the  tea  with  her  own  hands,  but 
to-day  ) Dung  ladic^s  lind  it  a  charming  recreation  to  make  the  tea-table 
attractive,  on  which  are  set  sandwiches,  cake,  bonbons,  and  a  silver  or 
copper  tea-kettle  steaming  over  an  alcohol  lamp.  It  is  the  young  ladies 
also  who  now  presidio  at  the  tea-table,  whilt^  their  mammas  take  upon 
themselves  the  more  important  dutii-s  of  receiving  the  callers. 

These  receptions  enable  all  to  show  the  spirit  of  hospitality,  for 
everyone  can  entertain  after  this  fashion,  even  though  they  have  not  the 
money  to  make  a  grand  "spread.  "  It  is  believed  that  (^ueen  Alexandra, 
the  former  Princess  of  Wales,  set  the  fashion  by  receiving  in  her  boudoir 


DINNER    GIVING.  '  3I 

at  her  country-scat  in  a  bewitching  tea-gown.  Ever  since,  English  ladies 
have  observed  rigidly  the  custom,  and  all  who  call,  are  served  to  at  least 
tea  and  wafers.  Gradually  the  fashion  has  spread  until  to-day  American 
ladies  send  out  hundreds  of  cards  with  the  words  "from  three  to  six."  In 
warm  weather,  ices  sometimes  form  a  substitute  for  sandwiches.  Callers, 
meet  in  a  most  informal  manner,  chatting  unrestrainedly. 

Occasionally  cards  bear  the  inscription  "Scotch  Tea."  Then  all  the 
appointments  are  Scotch.  The  music  furnished  is  the  bag-pipe,  and 
the  more  old-fashioned  silver,  the  better.  Pound  cake  becomes  Ihe  cake 
of  the  day.  vSandwiches,  instead  of  being  made  of  bread,  are  tiny  biscuits 
spread  between  with  orange  marmalade.  On  other  occasions,  cards  bear 
the  words  "Russian  Tea."  Then  the  decorations  are  Russian.  The  tea  is 
made  from  real  Russian  tea  and  with  it  is  served  thin  slices  of  lemon, 
Russian  wafers  and  a  little  preserve. 

The  latest  form  of  an  afternoon  tea  is  a  musicale,  reading,  or  some 
literary  entertainment,  where  ladies  come  early  in  the  afternoon  and  just 
before  their  departure,  are  served  to  tea,  chocolate  frappd  or  bouillon, 
as  the  case  may  be. 

The  hostess  who  makes  it  a  point  to  bestow  hospitality  in  this 
unaffected  fashion,  and  who  does  not  exact  formality,  but  offers  a  warm 
welcome  to  all,  is  sure  of  having  an  agreeable  circle  of  friends.  Tea- 
rooms, after  the  fashion  of  those  abroad,  have  recently  been  opened  in 
our  large  cities,  from  three  to  five,  and  are  largely  patronized. 

SUPPER    PARTIES. 

The  informal,  old-fashioned  supper,  at  which  all  the  dishes  are  placed 
on  the  table  together,  is  being  revived  and  bids  fair  to  surpass  many  of  the 
more  sumptuous  affairs.  People  generally  are  preferring  simplicity,  and 
what  can  be  simpler  in  way  of  entertainment  than  this? 

No  servant  need  be  in  attendance,  and  as  perfect  freedom  reigns,  each 
guest  feels  free  to  contribute  his  mite  to  the  labor  of  toasting  the  bread, 
cutting  of  cake,  carving  of  meat,  and  slicing  of  game,  and  then,  too,  what 
a  good  time  every  one  has!  The  host  pronounces  the  word  "ready"  and 
brings  in  a  hot  pot  of  coffee  with  delicious  cream,  which  he,  himself, 
serves,  while  the  hostess  loses  no  opportunity  in  seeing  that  every  one  is 
helped  to  the  store  of  jellies,  fruits,  and  other  good  things.  These  indul- 
gent hosts  and  hostesses  make  the  best  parents  in  the  world,  and  what 
boy  could  think  of  going  "out"  of  a  Sunday  or  holiday  night  with  socia- 
bility like  this  at  home?  These  suppers  can  take  place  early  in  the  even- 
ing, b(;fore  church  or  after.  Then  comes  the  singing  and  the  good-byes. 
God  bless  such  a  home  ! 


ST.    PATRICK'S    DAY. 

{March  77) 

"there's  a  dear  little  Island  far  over  the  sea, 
And  no  spot  on  the  globe's  half  so  precious  to  me; 
And  by  lake  or  mountain  where  e'er  I  may  roam, 
I  shall  never  forget  thee,  my  own  Ireland  home. 
Other  skies  may  be  bright,  other  lands  may  be  fair, 
But  what  of  all  that  if  the  heart  be  not  there  ? 
Other  music  may  charm  me,  but  ah !  there  is  none 
Which  can  move  me  to  sadness  or  mirth  like  thine  own." 

As  green  is  the  prevailing  color  on  St.  Patrick's  Day,  I  have  suggested  a  din- 
ner menu  where  this  color  and  whit^  are  used  exclusively.  Let  a  dish  of  ferns  be 
made  the  centerpiece  and  scatter  ferns  about  the  table.  Let  Irish  flags  decorate 
the  room.      Have  the  china  green  and  white,  so  far  as  possible. 

Green  silk  embroidered  ovei  a  small  wire,  to  imitate  the  shamrock,  placed  at 
each  plate,  for  a  boiitonnitrc ,  is  quite  appropriate  and  novel. 

"Oh!  the  Shamrock,  the  green,  immortal  Shamrock! 
Chosen  Leaf 
Of  Bard  and  Chief, 
Old  Erin's  native  Shamrock!" 


MENU. 


BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit 

Rice,  with  cream 

Popovers 

White  Omelette,  garnished  with 

parsley 

Irish  Potatoes,  in  cream 

Coffee 


DINNER 

Cream  of  Spinach 

Creamed  Fricassee  of  Chicken 

Irish  Potatoes,  mashed 

Peas 

Lettuce  and  Celery  Salad 

Pistachio  Ice  Cream 
Angel  Cake 

Coffee 


LUNCHEON 

Escalloped  Potatoes 

Whitefish  Turbot 
Cold  Slaw 

Fruit  Glace  a  \k  St.  Patrick, 
whipped  cream 

Cocoa 


(The  above  recipes  and  many  similar  ones  are  found  within  the  pages  of  this  book.) 

32 


asterSunday 


"RESURRECTION  is  the  silver  lining  to  the 
dark  clouds  of  death,  and  we  know  the  sun  is 
shining  beyond." 


Easter  brings  joy  to  the  festival.  Let  the  table  decorations  be  fresh  and 
dainty.     The  dominant  dish  should  be  eggs — eggs  and  eggs,  over  again. 

In  pagan  days,  the  use  of  eggs  in  the  spring  was  symbolical  of  nature — "the 
bursting  forth  of  life."  With  the  Christians,  it  symbolizes  the  resurrection:  "From 
death — Life."  The  free  use  of  eggs  on  Easter  has  now  generally  become  a  custom 
with  all  nations,  whether  that  nation  acknowledges  its  religious  significance  or  not. 

White  and  green  are  the  most  appropriate  colors  for  decoration.  White 
china  and  pure  white  linen,  with  Easter  lilies  for  a  centerpiece,  make  an  ideal  look- 
ing table.  Hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  crosswise,  make  pretty  garnishings  for  the 
different  dishes.  On  this  special  day,  for  breakfast,  let  the  eggs  be  cooked  to 
order  as  best  pleases  each  individual  fancy.  This  privilege  will  be  greatly  appre- 
ciated, especially  by  the  little  folks,  who  like  innovations. 


BREAKFAST 

Oranges 

Grape  Nut  and  cream 

Eggs,  Hashed  Potatoes, 

"to  order"  in  cream 

Rolls 

Griddle  Cakes  and  maple  syrup 

Coffee 


MENU 

DINNER 

Consomme, with  egg-balls 

Roast  Lamb 

and  mint  sauce 

Greens,  with  hard-boiled  eggs 

Egg  and  Watercress  Salad 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream 

Easter  Cakelets 

Coffee 


SUPPER 

Welch  Rarebit 
Filberts  Eggs,  in  jelly 

Easter  Eggs        Palm  Cake 

Russian  Tela 


(The  above  recipes  and  many  similar  ones  are  found  within  the  pages  of  this  book.) 

It  is  a  pretty  custom  to  exchange  souvenirs  on  Easter  mornings.  The  candy 
rabbit  and  bonbon  box  of  speckled  eggs,  fill  quite  a  place  in  the  boy's  heart  and 
help  him  remember  happily  the  day. 

A  pretty  custom  in  my  girlhood  was  the  rolling  of  the  colored  eggs  out  of 
doors  on  the  day  following  Easter.  I  am  told  that  this  custom  is  now  quite  mod- 
ern— that  the  children  in  our  Capital  city  all  repair  to  the  White  House  grounds 
to  roll  their  eggs,  and  that  our  Presidents,  as  well  as  the  wee  folks,  enjoy  the 
sport.      Long  live  the  Presidents! 

33 


" 'Rah!  'Rah!  for  the  jolly  old  Fourth  of  July!" 

The  United  States  is  the  only  country  with  a  known 
birthday.  All  the  rest  began,  they  know  not  when,  and  grew 
into  power,  they  know  not  how.  If  there  had  been  no  Independence  Day,  Eng- 
land and  America  combined  would  not  be  so  great  as  each  actually  is.  There  is 
no  "Republican,"  no  "Democrat,"  on  the  Fourth  of  July — all  are  Americans. 
All  feel  that  their  country  is  greater  than  party. — James  G.  Blaine. 

Let  it  not  be  forgotten  that  patriotism  is  one  of  the  positive  lessons  to  be 
taught  in  every  home.  Everything  learned  should  be  flavored  with  a  genuine  love 
of  country.  Every  glorious  fact  in  the  nation's  history  should  be  emphasized. 
Every  person  should  feel  that  he  is  entitled  to  a  share,  not  only  in  the  blessings 
conferred  by  his  government,  but  also  in  the  rich  memories  and  glorious  achieve- 
ments of  his  country. — Richard  Edwards. 

[Directions  for  the  decoration  of  a  dining-room  on  the  Fourth  of  July  are 
almost  superfluous.  Only  flags,  banners,  bunting  and  flowers,  representing  the  colors 
of  the  country  are  required  to  make  it  delightfully  attractive.] 


BREAKFAST 

Red  Raspberries  and  cream 

Fried  Chicken 

Sliced  Tomatoes 

Creamed  New  Potatoes 


Wheat  Mufl&ns 


Coffee 


DINNER 

Bouillon 

Roast  Lamb,  mint  "sauce 
New  Potatoes,  boiled 

Green  Peas 

Spinach,  with  eggs 

Cucumber  Salad 

Red,  White  and  Blue  Ice  Cream 

Chocolate  Macaroons 

Strawberries 

Coffee 


(The  above  recipes  and  many  similar  ones  are  found 
within  the  pages  of  this  book.) 

34 


SUPPER 

Chicken  Mold 

Radishes         Water-cress  Salad 

Sally  Lum 

White  Sponge  Cake 


Blackberries 


Tea 


While  the  dictionary  definition  of  Halloween  is  rather  different  than  the 
modern  small  boy's  interpretation  of  it  would  indicate,  yet  we  say  with  all  earnest- 
ness, give  the  boys  a  good  time  occasionally,  and  why  not  on  Halloween? 

"Wi'  merry  songs,  and  friendly  crack, 
I  wat  they  did  na  weary ; 
And  unco  tales,  an'  funnie  jokes. 
Their  sports  were  cheap  and  cheary." 

— ''Bobbie''  Burns. 

Boys  will  be  far  less  apt  to  carry  off  the  clothes-posts,  unhinge  the  gates,  and 
make  night  hideous,  if  you  giv^e  them  a  party  in  keeping  with  the  occasion — a 
party  where  tin  horns  form  the  first  course  at  the  dinner-table — where  colored 
paper  napkins,  folded  to  represent  the  "jack-be-nimble"  and  "jack-be-quicks," 
"toads,"  "monkeys,"  and  "parrots";  where  paper  caps  adorn  the  head  and 
where  jack-lanterns  adorn  the  room.  Such  an  evening  makes  glad  even  the  heart 
of  Aunt  Jemima  and  Uncle  Ben.     And  so,  why  not  the  boys? 


REFRESHMENTS 

Bouillon,  de  Jolly  Boys 

Celery 
Kindergarten  Crackers 

Turtle  Sandwiches 

Little  Pigs  in  Blankets 
Orange  Jelly 

Olives  a  la  Natural  History 

Sugar  Oflf,  with  maple  syrup 
Nut  Cartoons 

Lemonade 


TURTLE   SANDWICHES. 


TURTLE    SANDWICHES. 


(The  above  recipes  and  many  similar  ones  are  found  within  the  pages  of  this  book.) 

35 


A  peanut  doll  dressed   in    blue  and  white  crepe   paper  in 
Puritan  costume,  holding  a  few  heads  of  wheat,  makes  an  appro-     / 
priate  and  dainty  Thanksgiving  favor. 

Decorate  the  table  with  autumn  leaves.  Corn,  husked  and  tied  together,  is 
most  effective,  suspended  here  and  there  from  the  walls  and  between  the  doors. 
As  Thanksgiving  is  the  one  day  of  the  year  when  all  America  gives  praise  for  pros- 
perity and  freedom,  an  unusually  well-filled  board  is  not  only  in  good  taste,  but  is 
expected. 

To  make  a  unique  Thanksgiving  dessert,  cut  a  small  pumpkin  across  the  top. 
Carefully  scoop  out  the  inside.  Place  on  a  dish  and  fill  with  Floating  Island; 
replace  the  pumpkin  top.  Garnish  the  platter  with  generous  sprigs  of  autumn 
leaves,  and  on  these  lay  a  variety  of  sliced  cakes. 

MENU 

"Let  us  eat  and  be  merry." — Luke  is •' ^3 

DINNER 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell 


BREAKFAST 

Grapes 

Oatmeal 

Country  Sausages 

Scrambled  Eggs 

Browned  Potatoes 

Entire  Wheat  Griddle  Cakes 

Maple  Syrup 

Coffee 


Mutton  Broth 
Celery 

Turkey,  stuffed  with  oysters 

Cranberry  Sauce 

Mashed  Potatoes  Baked  Squash 

Boiled  Onions,  with  cream  sauce 

Peach  Pickles 

Waldorf  Salad        Cheese  Wafers 

Mince  Pie         Pudding,  Puritan 

Nuts  Fruit         Coffee 


SUPPER 

Cold  Roast  Turkey 
Tea  Biscuits 
Cottage  Cheese 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickles 
Thanksgiving  Cake 
Fruit  Glace  Tea 


As  this  is  a  day  of  general  rejoicing,  see 
that  the  poor  are  not  forgotten.  Don't  forget 
the  adage,  "Love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 

36 


Decorate  the  table  with  holly  and  mistletoe. 


Yes,  Christmas  day  has  come  at  last 

And  I  am  glad  'tis  here, 
For,  don't  you  think,  for  this  one  day, 

I've  waited  just  a  year. 
I'm  sure  it  should  have  come  before. 

As  sure  as  I'm  alive; 
Fifty-two  Sundays  make  a  year, 

And  I've  counted  seventy-five. 
There's  one  thing  makes  me  very  glad, 

As  glad  as  I  can  be; 
The  years  grow  short  as  we  grow  old, 

And  that  will  just  suit  me. 
I  wish  'twas  Christmas  every  month — 

That's  long  enough  to  wait — 


BREAKFAST 

Oranges 

Germia 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel 

Chipped  Beef  on  Toast 

Baked  Potatoes 

Griddle  Cakes  Muffins 

Coffee 


DINNER 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell 

Cream  Chicken  Soup 

Boiled  Whitefish,  sauce  Maitre  d' Hotel 

Roast  Goose,  apple  sauce 

Boiled  Potatoes     Mashed  Turnips 

Sweet  Potatoes 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding 

Lemon  Ice  Squash  Pie 

Quince  Jelly  Delicate  Cake 

Salted  Almonds  Fruit 

Coffee 

37 


SUPPER 

Cold  Roast  Goose 
Oyster  Patties 

Cold  Slaw 

Charlotte  Russe 

Popovers 

Currant  Jelly 


StWe 


Red  heart-shaped  place  cards 
with  a  lovers  knot  of  true  blue 
at  the  top  are  suggestive  and  gay. 


MENU 

Orangeade 

"A  cooling  drink  for  lovers  young  and  old." 

Consomme  St.  Valentine 
Celery 

Roast  Goose,  apple  sauce 

Escalloped  Tomatoes 

Onions  in  cream 

Orange  Fritters 

Blanc  Mange,  with  Cupid  sauce 

Valentine  Cakes. 

Nuts — Raisins  Heart-Shaped  Confectionery 

Coffee 


(All  these  recipes  and  many  more  suitable  for  similar  occasions  are  to 

be  found  in  this  book.) 

38 


Washington's  Birthday 


i%3 


"Statesmen,  vet  friend  to  truth  I  of  soul  sincere, 
In  action  faithful ,  and  in  honor  clear  I 
Who  broke  no  promise.  ser\-'d  no  private  end, 
"VMiO  gained  no  title  and  who  lost  no  friend. 
Ennobled  by  himself,  b}-  all  approved.'" 

ORTUNATE  is  the  housekeeper  who  has 
old-fashioned  blue  and  white  china  and 
twice  fortunate  is  she  who  has  heir- 
looms of  silver,  pev^ter  and  glass.  Make 
the  decorations  festive  and  holiday-like. 
Red  and  white  carnations  in  a  blue  bowl, 
make  a  pretty  centerpiece  to  the  table, 
or,  prettier  still,  is  red,  white  and  blue 
crinkled  paper,  neatly  wound  around  a  jar 
of  green  with  an  artistic  bow  at  the  side.  If  one  has  a  Jerusalem  cherry  tree  so 
much  the  better. 

Narrow  red,  white  and  blue  ribbons  can  be  tied  in  the  corners  of  the  place 
cards.  She  that  is  artistically  inclined  can  trace  thereon  a  little  hatchet  and  under- 
neath the  words:  "I  cannot  tell  a  lie,"  or,  "First  in  war,  first  in  peace,  and  first  in 
the  hearts  of  his  countrymen, "or  if  one  is  quite  clever,  indeed,  she  can  trace  tiny 
medallions  of  Washington  on  each  one. 


BREAKF.AST 

Apples 

Com  Mush  and  Cream 

Maryland  Fried  Chicken 

Graham  Gems 

Coffee 


DINNER 

Creamed  Com  Soup 

Itlaryland  Baked  Ham 

Scalloped  Potatoes  Beets 

Currant  Jelh- 

Red  Cabbage  Salad 

Red,  White  and  Blue  Ice  Cream 
Washington  Cake 


LUNCHEON 

Fried  Oysters 
Baked  Potatoes 
Tomato  Catsup 

Brown  Bread  and  Butter 

Mince  Pie 

Tea 


Candied  Cherries 


Coffee 


Historians  tell  us  that  baked  ham  was  the  favorite  dish  of  General  Washing- 
ton, and  that  whenever  possible  it  was  prepared  for  him  in  camp.  These  recipes 
and  many  more  suitable  for  Washington's  birthday  are  found  in  this  book. 

39 


HEANINQ  OF  FOREIGN  WORDS  USED  ON  HENU   CARDS. 


f.,  French;  g.,  German;  it..  Italian. 


Abatis,/.     Giblets. 

Africaine  (a  l'),/.     African  style. 

Americaine  (a  V),f.     American  style. 

Anglaise  (a  1'),/".     English  style. 

Au  (singular),  aux  (plural),/".     To  or  with. 

Au  gratin,  /.     Dishes    prepared   with  cheese 

and  baked. 
Au  jus,/     Meat  baked  with  natural  juice. 
Au  naturel,/     Food  cooked  plainly. 
Bif  teck,  /.     Beefsteak. 
Bisque,  /.     A   name   given    to   certain   soups 

usually  made  from  shellfish. 
Bouillon,/     Beef  broth. 
Braise,  /     Braised.     Meat  cooked  in  the  oven 

in  a  covered  stewpan,  with  gravy,  vegetables 

and  herbs. 
Bruxelloise,/     Brussels  style. 
Cacao,/.     Cocoa. 
Cafe./     Coffee. 
Caille,/     Quail. 
Camembert.     A  sort  of  cheese. 
Caramel.     Burnt  sugar. 
Caviar,  /     Caviare.     Salted  roe  of  sturgeon 

(fish  eggs). 
Celeri,  /     Celery. 
Chaud-f  roid,  /     Dishes  prepared  hot  and  eaten 

when  cold. 
Chocolat,/     Chocolate. 
Choux  de  Bruxelles,/     Brussels  sprouts. 
Compote,  /     Fruits  stewed  in  syrup. 
Confiture,/     Fruit  jams. 
Conso.Time,  /     Clear  soup. 
Creme,/     Cream. 
Croutons,/     Bread  fried,  used  for  garnishing 

dishes. 
Curry.     An  East  Indian  condiment. 
Dejeuner,  /     Breakfast. 
Demi  glace,  /     Cream   ice   much  served    in 

Paris. 
Demi  tasse,/     Half  cup. 
Desserte,/     Remains  of  a  meal. 
Eau,/     Water. 
Entree,  /     A  course  of  dishes. 
Espagnole,/     Spanish  style. 
Flamande    {k    la),   /.      Flemish    or   Holland 

style. 
Foie,/     Liver. 

Frangaise  (i  la),/.     French  style. 
Frappe,/     Semi-frozen. 
Fricassee,/     Stew. 
Fromage,/.     Cheese. 


Fromage  glace,/     Ice  cream  in  a  cheese-like 

shape. 
Gigot,/     Leg  of  mutton. 
Glace,  /     Frozen. 
Goulasch.      A   Hungarian   dish;    finely   sliced 

beef  or  veal  stew,  highly  seasoned. 
Gras  (au),/     Dressed  with  rich  meat  gravy. 
Hollandaise, /     Dutch  style;  also  name  of  a 

white  fish  sauce. 
Julienne,/     Name  of  a  vegetable  clear  soup, 

first  made  in  1875  by  a  cook  named  Jean  Julien. 
Jus,/     Juice;  gravy. 
Lait,/     Milk. 
Laitue,/     Lettuce. 
Macaroni,  it.     Paste  made  from  flour. 
Maitre  d'hStel,  /.     Hotel  steward's  style. 
Mayonnaise,/     A  salad  dressing. 
Menu,  /     Bill  of  fare. 
Moderne,/     The  modern  style. 
Mulligatawny.     An  East  Indian  curry  soup. 
Muscovites,/.     Russian  jelly. 
Napolitaine  {k  la),/     Naples  style. 
Naturel,  /.     Plain. 

Neufchatel,/     A  soft  kind  of  Swiss  cheese. 
Parisienne  (a  la),/     Parisian  style. 
Parmesan.     A  kind  of  Italian  cheese. 
Perche,  /     Perch. 
Persillade,/     Parsley  sauce. 
Picalilli.     Mixed  pickles  chopped  fine. 
Pique,  /.     Larded  with  strips  of  bacon. 
Poche,/     Poached. 
Polonaise  (a  la),/     Polish  style. 
Poulet,/     Young  chicken. 
Puree,/.     Ingredients  rubbed  through  a  sieve. 
Ragoiit,  /     A  stew  of  meat,  highly  spiced. 
Rissoles,/    Minced  fish  or  meat  rolled  in  thin 

pastry  and  fried. 
Roquefort.     Imported  cheese. 
Royale,/     Royal. 
Salade,/     Salad. 
Sauer  kraut,  g.     Cabbage  pickled. 
Saute,/     Thickened  gravy. 
Souffle,/     Light  baked  pudding  or  omelet. 
Spaghetti,  //.     Similar  to  macaroni. 
Supreme,/     White  cream  sauce  made  from 

chicken  broth. 
Tartare,/     Tartar. 
Tasse,/     Cup. 
Terrapene,/     Terrapin. 
Timbale,/     Pie  crust  baked  in  a  mold. 
Tutti  frutti,  //.     Various  kinds  of  fruits. 


40 


A  WRITER  on  the  art  of  cooking  has  made  the  assertion  that  there  is 
more  waste  among  the  poor  than  among  the  rich,  and  explains  it 
by  saying  that  the  former  have  not  learned  how  to  use  the  odds  and  ends 
that  come  in  their  way,  while  the  latter  have  brought  it  to  perfection. 
Wastefulness  is  no  indication  of  a  generous  nature,  and  yet,  we  have  met 
those  who  imagined  that  if  they  did  not  show  a  careless,  improvident, 
spirit  that  they  would  be  considered  close.  No  greater  mistake  can  be 
made  than  this.  Does  not  the  Bible  speak  of  the  careful  wife  thus:  "She 
lo'oketh  well  to  the  ways  of  her  household,  and  eateth  not  the  bread  of 
idleness." 

ECONOMICAL   LIVING. 

To  the  young  housekeeper  whose  first  steps  in  the  care  of  a  home  are 
but  a  series  of  experiments,  the  words  economy,  comfort,  and  thrift  may 
have  but  little  meaning,  but,  ere  long,  the  wish  to  make  the  most  of  every 
new  relation  will  cause  her  to  ask  imperatively  for  advice  in  this  direc- 
tion. 

First,  in  the  scale  of  economics,  comes  the  knowledge  of  "how  to 
choose"  that  which  is  nearest  the  ideal  in  nourishment,  and  "how  to  cook 
it"  so  as  to  get  the  greatest  benefit  out  of  it. 

In  our  favored  land,  meat  is  one  of  the  principal  articles  of  diet,  but 
in  the  older  countries,  the  laboring  man  is  only  able  to  obtain  it  once  or 
twice  a  week.  Perhaps  the  all-wise  Father  so  ordained  it,  if  it  be  true, 
as  modern  physicians  tell  us,  that  meat  makes  muscle  not  strength. 
A  small  family  in  America  will  often  waste  what  in  a  French  home  would 
be  enough  to  keep  a  household,  for  all  the  details  of  a  French  woman's 
kitchen,  no  matter  whether  she  be  rich  or  poor,  are  managed  with  the 
utmost  economy.  The  food,  although  inexpensive,  is  cooked  with  such 
relish,  and  in  such  disguises,  as  to  induce  a  belief  that  an  entirely  new 
dish  is  presented. 

WHEN   AND    HOW   TO   BUY. 

No  more  of  any  article  for  consumption  should  be  purchased  than 
necessary  for  the  number  constituting  the  family      Many  things  for  the 

41 


42 


WASTEFULNESS. 


table  are  excessively  dear  in  certain  seasons.  It  is  very- 
improvident  to  buy  such  articles  out  of  season.  Rather 
bring-  into  use  what  is  more  readily  procurable,  by 
varying  the  manner  of  cooking  it,  serving  it  up  in  differ- 
ent styles.  That  is  the  variety  that  will  give  the  most 
satisfaction,  and  even  if  there  is  not  so  lavish  an  out- 
C^^^^^A^  lay,  health  and  contentment  will  be  certain  to  reward 

^^'  ^ '       the   effort.      The  art   of    cookery   is   a  high-sounding 

phrase  to  some,  and  yet  it  means  merely  the  exercise 
of  a  little  taste  and  judgment,  the  putting  together  of 
what  materials  one  has  with  good  results. 

Economy  may  at  first  be  hard  to  learn,  but  it  is 
valuable.  When  the  housewife  acquires  the  habit  of 
making  the  best  use  of  all  she  possesses,  she  will  then 
be  economical  without  being  stingy,  liberal  without 
wasting,  and  will  learn  how  to  provide  a  frugal  table 
with  frequent  changes  far  more  agreeable  to  the  taste 
than  expensive  ones,  and  a  sameness  in  the  articles 
served. 

HOW   TO   UTILIZE   EVERYTHING.    ; 

The  tendency  to  waste  is  more  likely  to  occur  in 
small  families  where  the  mistress  of  the  home  is  at  a 
loss  to  know  what  to  do  with  the  small  portions  left 
over  from  various  meals,  than  in  large  families  where 
the  odds  and  ends  can  be  used  for  next  day's  meals.  In 
large  cities,  the  utilizing  of  such  fragments  is  not  so 
grave  a  matter,  for  there  are  plenty  of  wandering 
travelers  who  will  accept  them  gladly;  in  smaller  towns, 
where  the  poor  are  fewer,  the  question  is  more  serious. 
The  article  most  frequently  wasted  is  bread,  every 
crumb  of  which  should  be  saved.  It  can  be  converted 
into  toast  o'r  placed  in  the  oven  to  dry.  When  dry  it 
can  be  grated  coarsely  and  put  into  wide-mouthed 
covered  jars  for  puddings,  stuffings,  or  thickening  for 
meat  gravies.  Other  pieces  not  large  enough  for  toast, 
can  be  converted  into  griddle  cakes.  Then  there  is  the 
bread  pudding,  and  if  the  children,  or  the  older  mem- 
bers of  the  family,  grow  tired  of  the  economical  bread  pudding  with  lemon 
sauce,  try  the  same  in  custard  cups  with  raisins  for  fruit.  Butter  the 
cups,  fill,  and  then  bake  them,  standing  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.     Cover 


ODDS  AND 

*ENDS 


WASTEFULNESS.  43 

each  one  with  a  teaspoon  of  bright-colored  jelly  and  to  the  family  it  will 
no  longer  be  a  simple  bread  pudding,  but  a  rich  new  dish,  to  be  eaten 
with  cream. 

The  bones  of  a  roast  can  be  cracked  and  put  into  the  bean  soup,  giv- 
ing it  a  nice  flavor.  Cold  roast  beef  can  be  sliced  thin  and  warmed  over 
in  its  own  gravy  for  a  breakfast  or  luncheon  dish.  Some  turn  it  into  hash, 
but  cold  corned  beef,  after  it  has  been  sliced  one  or  twice  for  tea,  makes 
the  best  hash.  If  you  like,  you  can  chop  cold  cabbage  and  cold  beets  that 
have  not  been  in  vinegar,  with  the  potatoes  and  meat,  and  a  dish  that  any 
one  should  enjoy  will  be  the  result.  If  you  chance  to  have  no  cold  vege- 
tables, chop  the  corned  beef  very  fine,  fry  and  lay  it  over  dry  toast  in  a 
platter,  after  first  pouring  a  spoonful  of  boiling  water  upon  the  toast,  to 
moisten  it. 

Scraps  of  ham  can  be  chopped,  bread-crumbs  added,  a  little  butter 
and  some  of  the  fat;  then  make  layers  of  ham  and  bread,  set  it  in  the 
oven,  and  you  have  escalloped  ham. 

The  proper  care  and  use  of  drippings,  as  well  as  of  the  fat  cut  from  the 
edge  of  steaks,  should  be  known  and  practiced  by  all  housekeepers.  For 
frying  purposes  they  are  more  wholesome  than  lard,  many  persons  who 
are  unable  to  partake  of  food  fried  in  the  latter  find  no  trouble  with  the 
use  of  the  former;  besides,  the  drippings  do  not  spatter  from  the  pan  as 
does  lard,  and  are,  therefore,  more  desirable  on  the  score  of  cleanliness. 
For  frying  fish,  potatoes,  and  such  food  as  does  not  require  butter,  they 
will  be  found  very  satisfactory.  To  clarify  drippings  pour  on  boiling 
water,  stir  thoroughly  and  set  aside  until  the  following  day,  then  put  into 
a  saucepan  with  boiling  water  and  a  little  salt  and  allow  to  simmer  slowly, 
skimming  w^ell  until  the  water  has  evaporated;  strain  into  an  earthen 
vessel  and  keep  covered.  If  the  work  has  been  well  done  so  as  to  remove 
the  water  and  all  impurities,  it  will  keep  for  weeks.  Turkey  and  chicken 
fat  can  be  saved  for  making  soup. 

Sour  milk  makes  cottage  cheese,  a  recipe  for  which  will  be  found 
under  its  proper  heading;  it  also  makes  good  biscuits  and  griddle 
cakes. 

Potted  meats  can  be  made  of  fragments  cut  from  the  bone,  pounded 
in  a  mortar  and  seasoned;  they  make  fine  canapes  for  luncheon.  The 
tough  ends  of  steaks  can  be  chopped  and  made  into  Hamburg  steak  or 
cornish  pastry;  the  recipe  is  in  this  book. 

Potatoes  left  over  are  capable  of  so  many  ways  of  re-serving  that  it  is 
almost  unnecessary  to  mention  them.  They  reappear  in  potato  cakes,  in 
hash,  in  soups,  and  in  many  other  forms. 


44  WASTEFULNESS. 

Egg-shells  are  useful  for  clearing  soups,  jellies  and  coffee.  Soft- 
boiled  eggs  left  over  can  be  reboiled,  and  when  hard,  take  their  place  in 
garnishing,  in  salads,  in  pressed  meats,  and  on  toast.  The  canary  never 
objects  to  a  tiny  taste.  Cold  fried  or  scrambled  eggs  need  not  be  wasted 
but  chopped  and  mixed  with  mince  meat  to  make  excellent  stuffed  rolls. 
If  eggs  are  required  for  the  white  alone,  save  the  yolks  in  a  cup,  wet  a 
cloth,  place  it  over  them,  and  keep  in  a  cold  place  till  wanted. 

Oatmeal  and  other  cereals,  left  over,  answer  well  to  be  added  to  that 
made  fresh  the  next  day,  or  they  can  be  fried  for  breakfast  and  eaten 
with  maple  syrup. 

Vegetables  left  over  may  go  into  the  soup  designed  for  next  day's 
dinner.  Canned  fruits  should  be  watched;  if  they  show  signs  of  working 
they  should  be  stewed  at  once.  Apple  parings  and  pulps  that  are  sound 
need  not  be  thrown  away.  Stew  to  a  pulp,  strain  and  sweeten  and  you 
have  apple  butter,  peach  butter  and  excellent  filling  for  tarts. 

Cold  rice  is  easily  made  into  a  pudding,  into  croquettes,  or  better  still, 
is  fine  as  a  thickening  for  broth. 

If  ice  is  not  obtainable  set  milk  in  a  cold  place  or  boil  to  keep  it 
sweet.  Flour  and  meal  must  be  kept  covered,  and  tea  and  coffee  are  best 
preserved  in  closed  canisters.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  to  each 
pint  of  salt,  mix  well  and  you  will  not  be  troubled  by  salt  clogging  or 
becoming  damp.  Butter  keeps  best  in  stone  jars,  bread  and  cake  retain 
their  freshness  in  tin. 

Apples  should  remain  out  of  doors  in  barrels  until  too  cool  for  them. 
When  brought  in,  set  in  a  dry  room,  until  the  weather  requires  their  being 
put  into  the  cellar.  A  linen  cloth  laid  over  the  barrel  will  keep  them 
from  frost  till  very  cold  weather.  Many  prefer  not  to  head  up  the  barrels 
of  apples.  There  is  an  advantage  in  being  able  to  pick  them  over  several 
times  in  the  course  of  winter,  as  one  defective  apple  injures  all  its  neigh- 
bors.    If  moist,  wipe  them. 

Herbs  should  be  gathered  when  just  beginning  to  blossom;  they  are 
then  in  their  perfection.  Medicinal  herbs  should  be  dried,  put  up  into  paper 
bags  and  labeled.  Those  used  in  cooking  should  be  pounded,  sifted  and 
put  into  labeled  boxes  or  bottles.  They  retain  their  virtues  best  dried  by 
artificial  heat.  The  warmth  of  an  oven  a  few  hours  after  the  bread  is 
drawn  is  sufficient. 

If  in  making  pies  a  few  scraps  of  dough  are  left,  gather  them  in  a 
mass,  roll  them  out  thin,  cut  them  into  fancy  shapes,  prick  them  with  a 
fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Make  into  tarts  or  sift  fine  sugar  upon 
them  and  arrang-e  round  a  dish  of  stewed  fruit. 


CARVING 


TO  CARVE  graceful!}^  is  an  accomplishment  that  depends  wholly 
upon  skill  and  not  upon  strength.  The  present  fashion  of  dinners 
(see  page  23)  is  perhaps  removing  the  necessity',  from  some  circles,  for 
knowing  how  to  carve,  but  still,  not  so  generally  as  to  do  away  with  it 
altogether.      We  believe  that  ladies,  as  well  as  gentlemen,  should  make 


LEG    OF    MUTTON 

carving  a  study  so  that  at  the  family  dinner  if  the  host  be  absent  the 
hostess  can  perform  the  task  without  assistance  from  a  guest,  whose  skill 
is  perhaps  not  perfect,  but  whose  good  nature  would  not  allow  him  to 

refuse. 

HOW   TO   CARVE. 

To  carve  with  ease,  one  of  the  first  requisites  is  a  good  knife  well 
sharpened  before  coming  to  the  table.     It  is  a  most  uncomfortable  and 

45 


46 


CARVING. 


disagreeable  sound  to  hear  the  carver  whetting  the  knife  while  the  guests 
are  waiting  to  be  served.  The  knife  should  be  used  for  no  other  purpose 
than  carving.  It  should  never  be  found  in  the  kitchen,  cutting  vegetables, 
meat  and  breads,  its  sole  office  being  to  carve  the  meats  brought  to  table. 
Heat  destroys  its  temper.  A  sharp,  strong,  blade,  a  good  handle,  and  a 
keen  edge  are  qualities  belonging  to  a  good  carving  knife. 

Another  point  to  be  observed  in  carving,  is  to  always  cut  at  right 
angles  with  the  fibers  of  the  joint.  When  a  joint  is  properly  carved,  it  is 
more  agreeable  to  the  eye,  pleasanter  to  the  taste  and  much  more  easily 
masticated. 

HOW   TO   SIT   WHEN   CARVING. 

The  person  who  is  carving  should  be  provided  with  a  chair  a  little 
higher  than  the  ordinary  pattern,  and  should  always  sit,  not  stand,  if  a 
creditable  appearance  is  desired.  The  platter  which  holds  the  meat 
should  be  large  enough  to  admit  of  placing  the  slices  as  they  are  cut,  on 
one  side  of  the  dish,  from  whence  they  can  be  distributed.  A  linen  doily 
placed  underneath  the  platter  containing  the  meat,  will  catch  any  crumbs 
that  would  otherwise  fall  upon  and  soil  the  table-cloth. 


In  serving  fish,  avoid  breaking  the  flakes.  This  can  be  done  by  the 
use  of  a  fish  trowel.  The  middle  portion  of  the  fish  is  considered  the 
choicest,  but  the  tail  end  is  the  sweetest. 

When  carving  rib  or  sirloin  of  beef,  cut  the  slices  thin,  and  from  the 
side  next  to  you.  Never  offer  any  one  the  outside  piece,  unless  they  ask 
for  it,  but  inquire  how  each  guest  prefers  his — whether  rare  or  well  done. 
In  cutting  corned  beef,  begin  at  the  top,  but  avoid  giving  out  the  outside 
slice,  as  it  is  generally  hard. 


CARVING. 


47 


TENDERLOIN    ROAST. 


The  tenderloin  roast  is  the  choicest  part  of  the  beef.  It  is  usually 
rolled  up  and  held  in  place  by  skewers.  The  butcher  generally  puts  it  up 
for  his  customers  in  this  fashion.  Whatever  scraps  are  taken  off  should 
be  saved  for  the  soup  pot.  To  carve  a  tenderloin  roast  cut  thin  slices 
clear  across  the  top,  as  indicated  in  the  figure  from  A  to  B. 


SIRLOIN    BEEF. 


Next  to  the  tenderloin  roast  the  sirloin  is  considered  the  finest  part  of 
the  beef.  The  bone,  B  to  D  in  the  figure,  should  be  removed  before 
roasting.     The  part  below  is  the  tenderloin  part,  while  that  portion  above 


48 


CARVING. 


the  bone  is  the  sirloin  part.  Carve  by  passing  the  knife  with  a  good  firm 
hand  clear  down  the  length  of  the  side  beginning  at  A,  cutting  through 
to  I.     The  slices  should  be  thin,  long  and  even. 


\  \  \  \ 
\  \  ^  ^  \ 
\  \  \ 


I     _  I  I   I    1     I      I 


BREAST    OF    VEAL. 


The  breast  of  veal  consists  of  two  parts,  the  gristly  brisket  proper  and 
the  rib  bones.  Separate  the  two  parts  by  passing  the  knife  through  the 
veal  from  B  to  A.  Now  begin  carving  the  ribs  by  passing  the  knife  from 
E  to  F.  Some  people  are  fond  of  the  brisket,  so  it  is  well  to  cut  a  few 
pieces,  C  to  D. 


FORE-QUAKTER    LAMB. 


CARVING. 


49 


In  cutting  a  leg  of  mutton  begin  across  the  middle,  cutting  the  slices 
way  down  to  the  bone,  as  shown  by  the  letters  A,  B  (see  page  45).  Some 
prefer  to  cut  it  at  the  end,  from  G  to  F,  in  form  of  a  semi-circle,  E  E  E. 
This  part  contains  more  fat.  Ham  should  be  divided  in  the  same  manner, 
remembering  always  that  the  slices  should  be  thin,  but  well  across. 
Boiled  tongue  should  be  cut  crosswise,  leaving  the  root  in  the  dish. 

A  forequarter  of  lamb  can  be  served  by  separating  the  shoulder  part 
from  the  breast  and  ribs.  This  can  be  done  by  passing  the  knife  under 
and  dividing  the  ribs — see  dotted  lines  C  D  E.  Cut  through  the  skin, 
then  raise  with  a  little  force  the  shoulder  into  which  the  fork  should  be 
firmly  set.  Next  divide  the  ribs  from  the  brisket  by  cutting  from  A  to  B; 
then  it  will  be  easy  to  carve  the  ribs,  F  to  G,  and  the  brisket,  from  H  to  I. 


TURKEY. 


To  carve  a  fowl,  separate  first  the  wings  and  legs  and  thighs.  Then 
cut  slices  from  both  sides  of  the  breast,  as  in  the  figure  C  to  B.  Make  an 
opening  in  the  turkey  for  the  purpose  of  serving  the  dressing.  (See  A.) 
Serve  the  breast,  thighs  and  wings  first,  with  dressing  added,  leaving  the 
back  till  the  last.  All  fowls,  partridges,  and  grouse,  are  served  in  the 
same  way.  When  helping  to  gravy,  do  not  pour  it  over  the  meat,  but  put 
it  on  one  side  of  the  plate,  to  be  used  by  the  guest  as  best  preferred.  Small 
birds,  as  quails,  woodcock  and  pigeons,  are  split  down  the  back  and  a  half 
given  to  each  person. 

It  soon  becomes  easy  to  acquire  a  knowledge  of  joints,  and  any  one 
can  become  an  expert  who  tries  to  learn  the  relative  position  of  the  bones 
and  joints.     A  quiet  demeanor  and  a  cool  head  are  essential  to  success. 


50 


CARVING. 


BEEF. 


^^/ 


HIND-QUARTER. 

Section  A:  Used  for  porter-house  and  sirloin  roasts  and  steaks. 
"         B:  Rump-steaks  and  corned  beef. 
"     •    C:  Aitch-bone,  used  for  boiHng  and  pot  roasts. 
''         D:  Buttock,  used  for  round  steaks  and  boiHng. 
"         E:  Round,  used  for  corned  beef  and  stewing. 
"         F:  Shin,  used  for  soups  and  croquettes. 
"         G:  Flank,  fine  for  boiling  or  drying. 

H  and  I:  Used  for  corned  beef  and  for  pressed  meats. 


FORE-QUARTER. 

J:  The  fore-ribs,  considered  the  best  piece  for  roasting;  also  makes 

the  finest  steaks. 
K:  Middle  ribs,  four  in  number,  used  for  rib  roasting. 
L:  Chuck  ribs,  second  quality  of  roasts  and  steaks. 
M:  Brisket,  used   for  corned  beef,  mince-meat,  soups  and  spiced 

beef. 
N  and  O:  Shoulder-piece,  used  for  stews,  soups  and  hashes. 
P:  Neck,  used  for  consommes,  soups,  mince-meat,  sausages,  etc. 
Q:  Cheek,  good  roasted;  head  and  all. 


CARVING. 


51 


MUTTON. 


Of  the  head  the  tongue  only  Is  used.  The  finest  mutton  for  table  use 
is  what  is  known  as  the  South  Down.  The  South  Down  wether  is  the 
choicest  meat  found  in  the  city  markets. 

Lamb  born  in  the  fall,  well  sheltered,  and  fed  mostly  upon  milk,  when 
killed  in  the  Spring,  is  considered  a  great  delicacy.  Like  all  young  ani- 
mals, lamb  should  be  thoroughly  cooked. 

Mutton  is  generally  split  down  the  back  and  each  half  is  cut  into  two 
parts,  called  the  hind  and  fore-quarters.     A  saddle  of  mutton  is  the  middle 
portion  before  the  quartering  is  done. 
Section  A:  Leg,  used  for  chops  and  roasts. 

B:  Shoulder,  used  for  baking  and  stews. 

C:  Loin,  used  for  roasts  and  chops. 

D:  Loin,  from  which  are  taken  the  second-best  chops. 

E:  Rib  chops,  used  either  for  frying  or  boiling. 

F:  Breast,  used  for  roasting  or  boiling. 

G:  Neck,  used  for  cutlets,  broths  and  meat-pies. 


i 


5a 


CARVING. 


VEAL. 


In  cutting  up  veal,  the  hind-quarter  Is  divided  into  loin  and  leg,  and 
the  fore-quarter  into  breast,  neck  and  shoulder. 


HIND-QUARTER. 


Section  A:  Loin,  the  finest  cut  for  roasts  and  chops-. 
"         B:  Fillet,  for  roasts  and  cutlets. 
"         C:  Rump-end,  used  for  roasts  and  cutlets. 
"         D:  Knuckle,  used  for  stews,  soups,  mince-meat. 


FORE-QUARTER. 

E:  Neck,  used  for  stock,  stews  and  hashes. 

F:  Breast,  used  for  roasting  and  chops. 

G:  Blade-bone,  used  for  pot-roasts  and  stews. 

H:  Fore-knuckle,  used  for  soups  and  pot-pies. 

I :  Used  for  roasts. 

J;  Same  as  D  in  hind-quarter. 


«5<" 


HOW  TO   MAKE   THEM. 

A  GREAT  French  authority  on  cooking  says  that  soup  bears  the  same 
relation  to  the  dinner  that  a  doorway  bears  to  a  house,  and,  it  is 
safe  to  say,  too,  that  no  other  dish  is  capable  of  such  variation,  and  none 
has  received  so  much  attention  from  the  cooks  of  all  ages  and  all  nation- 
alities. There  are  at  present  about  two  hundred  and  ninety  different 
kinds.  When  made  of  good  material  and  in  a  proper  manner,  they  are 
more  nourishing  than  almost  any  other  kind  of  food. 

KINDS   OF   SOUP. 

Soups  are  divided  into  two  kinds — meat  and  vegetable.  As  the 
latter  properly  belong  to  Part  II.,  only  soups  with  meats  will  be  found 
under  this  heading.  In  the  making  of  meat  soups,  it  is  a  matter  of  taste 
as  to  what  portion  of  the  beef  shall  be  selected  for  making  them.  Some 
housekeepers  prefer  the  shin  bone,  as  it  contains  the  marrow,  which  adds 
strength  and  thickness  to  the  soup,  while  others  like  the  neck,  as  that 
makes  a  more  nutritious  soup. 

There  are  three  classes  of  soup — clear,  thick  and  purees.  The  first  is 
clear  and  thin;  the  second,  about  as  thick  as  cream  but  not  transparent, 
while  in  a  puree,  all  the  ingredients  entering  into  its  composition,  are 
rubbed  through  a  sieve. 

The  flesh  of  old  animals  contains  greater  flavor  than  does  the  flesh 
of  the   young  ones,  while  dark  meat  contains   more  than   white    meat. 

55 


56  SOUPS. 

MEAT  SOUPS. 

In  making  meat  soups,  put  the  meat  into  cold  water  and  allow  it  to 
boil  slowly,  then  simmer  for  three  or  four  hours, — never  ceasing  to  sim- 
mer. Watch  carefully  for  the  albumen  to  rise,  when  it  must  be  skimmed 
off,  again  and  again,  until  it  is  perfectly  clear.  Soup  should  always  be 
made  in  a  granite  or  enamel-lined  kettle,  as  it  is  healthier  and  the  color 
is,  at  the  same  time  clearer.  Beware  of  using  too  much  salt;  a  little  is 
better.  More  can  be  added  as  the  soup  boils  down.  Onions  should  be 
added  as  soon  as  the  soup  boils.  When  making  a  thick  soup,  the  vermi- 
celli, rice,  or  whatever  thickening  is  used,  should  be  partly  cooked  before 

adding.  J.  L.  S. 

ORDINARY   RULE   FOR   MEAT  SOUP. 

The  ordinary  rule  in  making  meat  soup  is  to  use  a  quart  of  cold  water 
to  each  pound  of  meat  and  bone.  If  the  liquid  boils  away  in  cooking,  add 
water  from  the  tea-kettle  that  is  boiling.  Lukewarm  or  cold  water  will 
injure  the  flavor. 

Parsely  pounded  and  bruised  and  put  in  the  soup  a  few  moments 
before  done,  gives  a  nice  color.  The  same  is  true  of  celery.  Grated  car- 
rot imparts  a  nice  color  also.  Another  good  coloring  for  soup  is  burnt 
sugar.     A  little  spinach  pounded  and  added  will  give  a  green  color. 

CONSOMME  OR   PLAIN   MEAT   STOCK   FOR   SOUP. 

Consomme  or  stock  forms  the  basis  of  all  meat  soups,  gravies  and 
purees.  The  simpler  it  is  made,  the  longer  it  keeps.  It  is  best  made  of 
fresh,  uncooked  beef  and  some  broken  bones,  to  which  may  be  added  the 
remnants  of  broken  meats.  In  a  home  where  flesh  forms  part  of  the 
every-day  diet,  a  good  cook  will  seldom  be  without  a  stock-pot. 

Four  pounds  of  beef  and  broken  bones,  one  gallon  of  cold  water  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Put  the  meat  and  water  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  and  let  it  slowly  come  to  a  boil,  then  simmer  three  or  four  hours, 
until  the  water  is  boiled  away  one-half;  add  the  salt,  strain  and  set  to 
cool,  in  an  earthenware  dish  well  covered.  When  cold,  take  the  fat  off 
the  top  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  To  make  soup  for  a  family  of  six, — take 
one  quarter  of  the  stock,  to  which  add  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  any 
vegetables  desired — boil  three  hours.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

MIXED   STOCK   FOR   SOUPS. 

To  six  pounds  of  lean  beef,  with  the  bones  well  cracked,  add  six 
quarts  of  water.  Put  the  beef,  bones  and  water  in  a  covered  kettle  on  the 
stove  to  heat  slowly.     Let  it  boil  gently  for  six  hours.     After  it  has  boiled 


SOUPS.  57 

for  six  hours,  strain  and  set  aside  well  covered  until  the  next  day.  Before 
needed,  remove  the  fat,  set  the  soup  over  the  fire  and  throw  in  a  little 
salt,  two  carrots,  two  onions,  one  turnip,  one  head  of  celery.  Stew  in 
sufficient  water  to  cover  them.  When  tender,  add  the  vegetables  and  the 
water  in  which  they  were  cooked,  to  the  soup.  Boil  slowly  for  one-half 
hour.  Strain  when  done.  A  bay-leaf  added  to  the  stock  before  cooking 
the  second  day,  adds  greatly  to  the  flavor.  M.  R.  D. 

WHITE  STOCK. 

This  stock  forms  an  excellent  basis  for  many  soups.  Rice,  barley, 
vermicelli,  macaroni,  peas  and  beans,  previously  cooked,  may  be  added. 
This  provides  a  good  use  for  vegetables  left  from  yesterday's  dinner. 

White  stock  is  used  in  the  preparation  of  white  soups,  and  is  made 
by  putting  six  pounds  of  a  knuckle  of  veal  or  lean  beef  and  veal  gravy 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon  or  ham  cut  up  in  small  pieces  over 
the  fire  in  six  quarts  of  cold  water,  with  four  onions  and  four  heads  of 
celery  cut  up  fine.  Stew  gently  until  nearly  done,  when  salt  should  be 
added.  Cook  one  hour  longer;  strain  and  set  to  cool.  When  cold  remove 
fat  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Cook. 

EQQ    BALLS   FOR   SOUP. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  with  a  little  melted  butter,  to 
a  paste.  Add  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  two  raw  eggs  and  add  to 
above,  with  flour  enough  to  make  them  hold  together.  Make  into  balls, 
put  in  soup  and  let  boil  one  minute.  Mrs.  E.  Brown. 

TOASTED   BREAD   CRUSTS   FOR   SOUP. 

Toast  bread  crusts  in  front  of  a  very  small  fire,  and  on  a  wire  toaster. 
When  brown  on  both  sides,  cut  the  bread  into  very  small  dice  before  serv- 
ing.    Untoasted  bread  swells,  and  is  likely  to  spoil  the  appearance  of  the 

soup.  Mamie  Allen. 

NOODLES   FOR  SOUP. 

Take  two  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  three  tablespoons  sour 
cream,  flour  enough  to  make  a  rather  stiff  dough;  knead,  roll  out  very 
thin  and  cut  in  narrow  strips;  cook  half  an  hour  or  less.  Mrs.  Rose. 

NOODLES— No.  2. 

Use  one  egg,  one-half  an  eggshell  of  water,  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  stiff 
with  flour.  Lay  on  napkin  to  dry;  roll  like  jelly  cake.  Cut  as  thin  as 
wafers.  Mrs.  Mason  Doane. 


58  SOUPS. 

HERB    POWDER    FOR   SOUPS. 

It  is  not  always  possible  to  obtain  fresh  herbs,  and  so,  a  good  way  to 
obtain  a  flavoring  for  soups  is  to  procure  them  in  season  fresh,  just  before 
they  begin  to  flower;  dry  them  in  a  warm,  but  not  hot,  oven;  pound  them 
fine  and  pass  through  a  wire  sieve.  The  powder  should  then  be  put  into 
small  bottles,  stoppered  closely,  and  kept  dry.  The  proportions  are  as 
follows:  Two  ounces  of  sweet  marjoram,  two  ounces  of  winter  savory,  two 
ounces  of  dried  parsely,  two  ounces  of  thyme,  half  an  ounce  of  bay-leaves, 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  celery-seed,  an  ounce  of  sweet  basil,  and  an 
ounce  of  lemon-peel.  A.  W.  Cutter. 

CONSOMME   WITH    RICE   AND   CREAH. 

Put  one  quart  of  plain  consomme  made  after  the  above  recipe,  in  a 
stew-pan  and  when  it  has  come  to  a  boil  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
and  one-half  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice.  Boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  sugar  and  salt  and  a  cup  of  cream. 

Emma  Hoffman. 

CONSOMME   WITH    PEARL   BARLEY. 

Put  one  quart  of  consomme,  made  after  the  above  recipe  for  plain  con- 
somme in  a  granite  kettle,  add  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  well-washed  pearl 
barley,  and  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Let  boil  forty-five  minutes.  Add 
one-third  of  a  cup  of  cold  breast  of  chicken  cut  in  dice,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  peas  previously  cooked,  and  serve  on  crisp  crackers. 

P.  R.  Saur. 
CONSOMME   WITH    EQQ    BALLS. 

Use  one  quart  of  the  above  recipe  for  plain  consomme  put  over  to 
boil,  adding  to  it  one  quart  of  boiling  water.  Just  before  taking  from 
the  stove  put  in  a  few  balls  made  by  rubbing  smoothly  together  the  yolks 
of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  seasoned  with  a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  finely  minced  parsley 
and  just  enough  slightly  beaten  raw  &gg  to  bind  together.  Mold  into 
balls  like  small  marbles.  Mrs.  R.  McCall. 

VEAL   BROTH. 

Cut  four  pounds  of  scrag  of  veal  into  small  pieces,  and  put  into  a  stew- 
pan.  Pour  over  three  quarts  of  water,  and  place  over  the  fire.  Skim 
carefully.  Add  an  onion,  a  turnip,  three  blades  of  mace,  and  a  little  salt. 
Stew  all  slowly  for  two  hours.  Then  strain  through  a  sieve  and  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  that  has  been  boiled  tender.  Boil  ten  minutes 
more  and  serve.  Mrs.  H.  Harrington. 


SOUPS.  59 

MUTTON   BROTH. 

(For  Convalescents.) 

Place  in  a  kettle  three  pounds  of  a  neck  of  mutton  from  which  the  fat 

has  been  cut,  and  chopped  into    small  pieces,  with  six  pints  of  water. 

Boil,  skim,  set  the  pan  to  the  back  of  the  stove,  where  it  can  simmer  for 

an  hour.      Add  three  ounces  of  washed  rice,  with   a  turnip  and  some 

celery.     Simmer  for  two  hours.     Strain,  free  from  fat,  add  salt,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Roth. 
nUTTON    BROTH— No.  2. 

Two  pounds  coarse,  lean,  chopped  mutton;  half  an  onion  sliced;  one 
cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  raw  rice;  two  quarts  of  cold  water;  seasoning. 
Boil  meat  and  onion  slowly  four  hours;  season,  and  set  by  until  cold.  Skim 
and  strain.  Return  to  the  pot  with  the  rice  (previously  soaked  three 
hours).     Simmer  half  an  hour,  turn  in  hot  milk,  stir  and  serve. 

A.  P.  Skinner. 
BEEF  TEA. 

Take  two  pounds  of  lean  rump  of  beef,  remove  every  particle  of  fat, 
cut  into  small  pieces  and  place  in  a  tightly  corked  bottle.  Place  the  bottle 
in  a  deep  saucepan  of  cold  water,  reaching  two-thirds  of  the  way  to  the 
top  of  the  bottle,  place  over  a  slow  fire,  and  keep  it  boiling  slowly  for  fif- 
teen minutes,  take  out  the  bottle,  pour  out  the  liquor,  and  use  as  required. 

STANDARD   BOUILLON. 

One  pint  of  water  to  every  pound  of  meat;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  vegetables  to  taste.  Mary  Butts. 

BOUILLON— No.  2. 

Four  pounds  of  beef,  one  kuckle  of  veal,  one  carrot,  two  small  tur- 
nips, a  sprig  of  celer}',  one  very  small  red  pepper  pod,  two  small  onions, 
salt,  and  six  quarts  of  water;  boil  six  hours,  and  strain  through  a  sieve. 
Let  stand  over  night  and  congeal.     Serve  hot.  Ina  Brown. 

BOUILLON— No.  3. 

To  five  pounds  of  beef  cut  in  small  pieces,  add  five  quarts  of  cold 
water.  Simmer  slowly  six  hours.  A  large  shank  of  beef  broken  twice 
across  and  once  lengthwise  is  equally  good.  After  boiling  three  hours 
slowly,  add  salt,  black  pepper,  one  tablespoon  of  allspice,  two  onions  cut 
fine,  one  grated  carrot,  two  stalks  of  celery,  two  tomatoes,  half  a  dozen 
whole  cloves.  Boil  slowly  three  hours  longer,  strain,  and  set  away.  Next 
day  remove  the  fat  and  boil.  Just  before  serving,  add  a  little  nutmeg  and 
mace.     Serve  in  bouillon  cups.  Lydia  Mann. 


60  SOUPS. 

CREAM   SOUP   WITH    5T0CK. 

Two  quarts  white  stock  well  seasoned,  one  quart  of  milk,  scald 
together  and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  fiour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter; when  all  have  been  stirred  to  a  smooth  paste,  cook  well;  just  before 
serving  add  one  cup  of  cream.  Grate  the  yokes  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs 
in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  it.  U.  R.  S. 

BARLEY  BROTH. 

Put  two  pounds  shin  of  beef  in  one  gallon  of  water.  Add  a  teacup  of 
pearl  barley,  three  large  onions  cut  up  fine,  a  small  bunch  of  parsley 
minced,  three  potatoes  sliced,  a  little  thyme,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Simmer  steadily  three  hours,  and  stir  often,  so  that  the  meat  will  not 
burn.     Do  not  let  it  boil.     Always  stir  soup  or  broth  with  a  zvooden  spoon. 

Mrs.  Lizzie  Chandler. 
TURKEY   SOUP. 

Place  the  remains  of  a  cold  turkey  and  what  is  left  of  the  dressing 
and  gravy  in  a  pot,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water.  Simmer  gently  four 
hours,  and  let  stand  until  the  next  day.  Take  off  what  fat  may  have 
arisen,  and  take  out  with  a  skimmer  all  the  bits  of  bones.  Put  the  soup 
on  to  heat  until  at  boiling  point,  then  thicken  slightly  with  fiour  stirred 
into  a  cup  of  cream,  and  season  to  taste.  Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the 
bones,  put  it  back  in  the  soup,  boil  up  and  serve.  Alice  Lockie. 

Freda  W. 
POTATO   SOUP   WITH   MEAT. 

Pare  potatoes  and  cut  into  cubes  and  drop  in  a  cold  batter.  Have 
ready,  sliced  onions,  one-third  as  much  as  of  potatoes,  fat  meat  (salt  pork 
or  bacon,  one-third  as  much  as  of  onions),  cut  into  short,  narrow  strips. 
Drop  the  meat  into  an  empty  hot  soup  kettle  over  the  fire,  fry  lightly 
brown,  add  onions,  stir  to  prevent  burning.  Add  potatoes,  season  with 
salt,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  boil  about  fifteen  minutes,  then  add 
pepper  and  celery  salt,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

M.  H.  P.  Crandall. 
MOCK  TURTLE   SOUP. 

Take  a  calf's  head,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  hock  of  ham,  six  potatoes 
sliced  thin,  three  turnips,  parsley  and  sweet  marjoram  chopped  fine,  and 
pepper.  Forced  meat  balls  of  veal  and  beef,  half  a  pint  of  wine,  one 
dozen  egg  balls,  juice  of  one  lemon.  The  calf's  head  must  have  had 
the  brains  removed,  and  must  have  been  boiled  previously  till  the  meat 
slips  off  the  bone.     The  broth  must  be  saved,  so  as  to  use  in  the  soup. 


SOUPS.  61 

,Cut  the  head  in  small  pieces  after  boiling.     The  veal  and  ham  also  must 

have  been  boiled  and  cut  up,  and  all  simmered  for  a  couple  of  hours  in  the 

broth  made  by  the  calf's  head.     Now  put  all  together.     The  forced  meat 

balls  and  Qgg  balls  should  be  added,  and  all  boiled  for  about  ten  minutes. 

W.  F.  Winters. 
TURKEY   SOUP— No.  2. 

'■  Boil  yesterday's  turkey  bones  in  water  to  cover  them,  for  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  Chop  a  little  summer  savory  and  celery  and  add.  When 
done,  thicken  with  a  little  browned  flour,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
butter.  Charlotte  Felt. 

,  VEGETABLE  SOUP  WITH   STOCK. 

Cut  three  onions,  three  turnips,  one  carrot  and  four  potatoes.  Put 
them  into  a  stew-pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  powdered  sugar.  After  it  has  cooked  ten  minutes,  add  two  quarts 
of  stock,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  set  aside  to  simmer  until  the  vege- 
tables are  tender — about  one-half  hour.  Amanda  Miller. 

JULIENNE  SOUP. 

Take  three  carrots,  three  turnips,  the  white  part  of  a  head  of  celery, 
three  onions,  and  three  leeks,  if  you  have  them.  Wash  and  dry  the  vege- 
tables, and  cut  them  into  thin  shreds,  an  inch  in  length.  Place  the  shreds 
in  a  stew-pan  with  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  a  small  pinch  of  sugar, 
and  stir  them  over  a  slow  fire  until  slightly  browned.  Pour  over  them 
three  quarts  of  clear  stock  and  simmer  gently  for  an  hour,  or  until  the 
vegetables  are  tender.  Carefully  remove  the  scum  and  fat,  and  half  an 
hour  before  the  soup  is  done  add  two  lumps  of  sugar,  with  two  pinches  of 
salt,  and  two  pinches  of  pepper,  two  cabbage  lettuces,  twelve  leaves  of 
parsley  cut  in  the  same  way  as  the  other  vegetables,  after  being  immersed 
in  boiling  water  for  a  minute.  Boil  half  an  hour  longer,  skim  carefully, 
and  serve  with  bread  fried  in  dice  shape.  It  must  be  remembered  that 
quick  boiling  would  thicken  and  spoil  this  soup,  which  ought  to  be  a 
clear  brown.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Hilton. 

BISQUE  OF  CLAMS. 

Take  fifty  clams,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  water,  two  tablespoons 
of  butter;  save  all  the  liquor  the  clams  contain,  put  it  over  the  fire  with  a 
dozen  whole  peppers,  half  a  dozen  blades  of  mace,  and  salt  to  taste.  Let 
it  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  drop  in  the  clams.  Let  boil  quickly  for  half 
an  hour,  keeping  the  pot  covered.  Strain  the  liquid  before  the  clams 
are  added.     Watch  the  soup  carefully,  that  it  does  not  burn. 

James  Brown. 


6^  SOUPS. 

PARSNIP  SOUP   WITH   STOCK. 

Half  a  dozen  sliced  parsnips  must  be  put  in  a  stew-pan,  with  two 
onions,  six  sticks  of  celery,  and  two  quarts  of  stock.  Stew  the  vegetables 
until  they  are  tender,  which  is  about  two  hours,  then  drain  them,  press 
them  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  return  the  puree  to  the  soup.  Let  it 
boil,  season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  or  cayenne,  and  serve  very  hot. 
A  little  boiling  milk  may  be  added  if  liked.  The  excessive  sweetness  of 
parsnip  soup  may  be  corrected  by  the  addition  of  a  little  tomato,  or  a 
tablespoonful  of  chilli  vinegar.  Mrs.  Fred  White. 

BEEF   BROTH. 

Cut  an  onion,  a  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  parsnip,  and  a  stalk  of  celery 
into  small  dice.  Fry  them  in  butter  and  as  soon  as  brown  add  two  pounds 
of  the  rump  of  beef  which  has  also  been  cut  up  very  small,  and  fry.  Wash 
half  a  cup  of  barley.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  two  quarts  of 
water.  Boil  two  hours.  Brown  small  squares  of  bread  in  the  oven,  and 
serve  with  the  broth.  Lucy  Cooper. 

CLAM   SOUP. 
(Fine  for  Invalids.) 

Cook  two  quarts  of  clams  twenty  minutes  in  their  liquor;  add  salt  and 
pepper  and  three  pints  of  milk,  two  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg;  let  come  to  a  boil  and  strain.  Nurse. 

OYSTER   SOUP. 

Two  quarts  of  select  oysters,  one  pint  of  water,  one  quart  of  milk,  a 
generous  lump  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Strain  the  liquor  from  the 
oysters;  add  to  it  one  pint  of  water  and  heat.  When  ready  to  boil,  add 
the  seasoning,  then  the  oysters.  Cook  three  minutes  or  until  they 
"ruffle."  Stir  in  the  boiling  milk  and  send  to  table.  Some  prefer  all 
water  in  place  of  milk.  Mrs.  T.  M.  B. 

OYSTER  CREAH  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  one  quart  of  milk,  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  wash  and  drain  the  oysters;  put  over  fire  in  sauce- 
pan; stir  until  swelled  and  boiling;  remove,  drain  and  return  that  liquor 
to  the  saucepan,  setting  on  the  back  of  the  stove;  chop  oysters  fine  and 
add  to  the  liquor;  set  forward  on  the  stove,  adding  the  milk;  when  boiling 
add  the  butter  and  flour,  rubbed  together;  season  and  serve  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  each  dish  of  soup. 

Mrs.  R.  Whipple. 


SOUPS.  G3 

nULLIQATAWNY   SOUP. 

Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  chop  a  carrot, 
an  onion,  and  a  little  celery,  and  fry  in  this  butter.  Add  an  ounce  of  raw 
ham  cut  into  small  squares,  and  a  very  small  chicken  cut  in  quarters.  Let 
them  brown  slowly,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  shake  a  spoonful  of 
curry  powder  over.  In  five  minutes  add  two  quarts  of  broth  and  two 
potatoes  cut  up  very  small.  Cook  all  for  one  hour,  skim  the  fat  from  the 
soup  and  lift  out  the  chicken.  Cut  the  breast  into  small  squares,  place 
them  back  in  the  soup.     Serve  a  dish  of  plain  boiled  rice  with  it. 

Christine  Norimer. 

SCOTCH  BROTH. 

Boil  four  pounds  of  lean  mutton  in  four  quarts  of  water,  stir  into  it 
half  a  pound  of  Scotch  barley.  Keep  it  well  mixed  until  the  water  boils, 
and  skim  the  surface  carefully  while  simmering,  as  fast  as  the  scum  rises. 
Cut  up  a  couple  of  carrots,  a  turnip  and  an  onion;  add  these,  with  a  quart 
of  green  peas,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  pepper 
and  salt,  mixed.  The  vegetables  should  not  be  allowed  to  boil  a  longer 
time  than  is  required  to  cook  them.  Scotch  broth  may  be  made  of  beef 
or  veal.  Margaret  Turnbull. 

OX=TAIL  SOUP. 

Cut  one  ox-tail  into  joints  and  fry  brown  in  good  dripping;  slice  three 
onions  and  two  carrots  and  fry  in  the  same  dripping  when  the  pieces  of 
ox-tail  have  been  taken  out.  When  done  tie  them  with  thyme  and  parsley 
in  lace  bag  and  drop  into  the  soup-pot  containing  four  quarts  of  water. 
Put  in  the  tail  and  two  pounds  of  lean  beef  cut  into  strips.  Grate  over 
them  two  carrots,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  boil  slowly  for  four 
hours;  strain  and  thicken  with  brown  flour  moistened  with  cold  water  and 
boil  for  an  additional  fifteen  minutes.  Mrs.  Ina  Felt. 

AHBER   SOUP. 

Take  a  chicken,  or  the  remains  of  two  or  more  roasted  ones,  break  in 
pieces  and  add  a  soup  bone  with  three  quarts  of  water.  Cook  slowly  for 
four  hours,  then  add  an  onion  fried  in  a  little  hot  fat,  with  half  a  dozen 
cloves  stuck  into  it,  one-half  a  small  carrot,  parsley  and  three  stalks  of 
celery,  and  cook  for  another  hour,  by  which  time  the  stock  will  have  been 
reduced  by  boiling  to  two  quarts.  Strain  into  a  large  bowl  and  the  follow- 
ing day  remove  the  fat  which  will  have  accumulated  on  top;  take  out  t]:j 


64  SOUPS. 

jellied  stock,  avoiding  the  settlings  which  will  do  for  some  sauce  or  gravy; 
let  it  heat,  then  skim  and  mix  into  it  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  shell  and 
all;  skim  off  carefully  and  strain  through  a  fine  strainer. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  M. 
CHICKEN   BROTH. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  into  small  pieces  and  put  it  in  a  deep  earthen  dish, 
adding  a  quart  of  cold  water,  and  setting  it  over  a  boiling  kettle.  Cover 
closely  and  let  it  steam  several  hours  until  the  meat  of  the  chicken  has 
become  very  tender,  after  which  strain  off  the  broth  and  let  it  stand  over 
night.  Skim  off  all  the  fat  in  the  morning  and  pour  the  broth  into  a 
bowl.  Into  the  dish  in  which  the  broth  was  made  put  one-third  of  a  tea- 
cupful  of  rice  in  a  teacupful  of  cold  water,  and  steam  as  before  until  the 
rice  is  soft;  then  pour  in  the  broth  and  steam  an  hour  or  two  longer. 

Mrs.  I.  C.  Miller. 
CHICKEN  BROTH— No.  2. 

Cut  up  the  fowl  and  put  into  a  pot  with  four  quarts  of  cold  water. 
Stew  until  diminished  to  three  quarts.  Take  out  the  chicken  and  reserve 
for  use.  Season  broth  and  add  a  small  cup  of  rice.  Cook  rice  tender. 
If  desired  add  a  cup  of  milk  and  one  or  two  beaten  eggs  before  serving. 

Miss  Minnie  B. 
CHICKEN    QUHBO   SOUP. 

Fry  one  chicken;  remove  the  bones;  chop  fine;  put  in  kettle,  with 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  three  ears  of  corn,  six  tomatoes  sliced  fine, 
twenty-four  pods  of  okra;  corn,  tomatoes  and  okra  to  be  fried  a  light 
brown  in  the  gravy  left  from  frying  the  chicken;  then  add  to  the  kettle 
with  water  and  chicken,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice;  pepper  and  salt;  boil 
slowly  one  hour.  Mrs.  W.  M.  Wheeler. 

VEAL   SOUP. 

Cut  up  a  shank  of  veal  in  small  pieces,  cook  with  two  and  a  half 
quarts  of  water;  when  done,  strain  liquid  off  and  wash  kettle;  put  liquid 
back.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  set  back  on  stove;  add  one  quart  of 
sweet  milk  and  one  quart  of  rich  cream;  before  serving  stir  in  two  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mrs.  A.  M.  Smith. 

MOCK   TERRAPIN. 

One  cold  chicken,  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  pepper,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  the  milk;  thicken 
with  the  flour,  then  add  the  cold  chicken  and  eggs,  chopped  fine.  Let 
boil  up  and  serve  hot.     Very  fine.  Mrs.  A.  C-  Brown. 


SOUPS.  65 

OXTAIL   SOUP— No.  2. 

In  hot  saucepan  place  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  &gg  and  brown. 
Wash  and  cut  three  ox-tails  at  joints  and  place  in  the  browned  butter — 
and  fry  so  they  are  brown  all  over.  Then  pour  all  into  a  pot  with  four 
quarts  of  boiling  water;  cut  up  fine  one  good-sized  onion,  one  carrot,  a 
spray  of  parsley  and  a  sprig  of  celery;  let  boil  for  an  hour  then  boil  two 
hours  longer;  salt  to  season  and  take  from  fire  and  strain.  When  cool  skim 
off  fat;  put  all  back  on  stove,  adding  one  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup; 
when  at  boiling  point,  stir  into  soup  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
mixed  up  in  cold  water;  simmer  until  ready  to  serve. 

I.  M.  Brain,  Chef  at  Parker  House. 

CELERY  SOUP  WITH  STOCK. 

Cut  the  white  part  of  half  a  dozen  heads  of  celery  into  small  pieces, 
and  boil  in  two  quarts  of  white  stock,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean 
ham  and  two  ounces  of  butter.  Simmer  gently  one  hour,  then  drain 
through  a  sieve,  return  the  liquor  to  the  pan  and  stir  in  a  few  teaspoonfuls 
of  cream  with  great  care.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  serve 
with  hard  crackers  placed  in  the  soup  about  five  minutes  before  taking  up. 
Season  to  taste.  Mrs.  Frances  Sanderson. 

A  DELICATE  CHICKEN   SOUP. 

Prepare  three  young  chickens  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  five 

pints  of  white  stock  freed  from  fat  and  cleared  from  sediment.     A  sliced 

turnip  and  carrot  may  be  put  with  them,  and  removed  before  the  soup  is 

thickened.     Let  them  simmer  gently  an   hour.      Remove  all  the  white 

flesh,  return  the  rest  of  the  birds  to  the  soup,  and  simmer  once  more  for 

two  hours.     Pour  a  little  of  the  boiling  liquid  over  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 

crumbs  of  bread,  and  when  it  is  well  soaked,  drain  it,  put  it  in  a  mortar 

^with  the  flesh  which  has  been  taken  from  the  bones,  and  pound  it  to  a 

smooth  paste,  adding,  by  degrees,  the  liquid.     Flavor  with  salt,  pepper, 

and  a  very  little  pounded  mace;    press  the  mixture  through  a  sieve,  and 

boil  once  more,  adding  one  pint  of  boiling  cream.     If  the  soup  should  not 

be  sufficiently  thick,  a  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot  which  has  been  mixed 

may  be  added  very  smoothly  with  a  little  cold  milk. 

Mrs.  Callie  Price. 
LORNE   SOUP. 

Put  three  pints  of  stock  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  a 
small  sprig  of  lemon-thyme,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  a  little  pepper  and 
salt.     Simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour.     Pick  all  the  white  meat  from  the 


66  SOUPS. 

remains  of  a  cold  roast  chicken,  mince  it  fine  and  pound  in  a  mortar  with 
the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  the  crumbs  of  half  a  roll  which  has  been 
soaked  in  milk  and  then  pressed  dry,  and  two  ounces  of  blanched  and 
pounded  almonds.  Strain  the  soup,  and  return  it  again  to  the  saucepan. 
Stir  the  pounded  ingredients  thoroughly  into  it,  simmer  gently  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  serve.  Mrs.  Maria  Hasty. 

ASPARAGUS   SOUP  WITH    STOCK 

Take  one-half  pound  of  fresh  asparagus,  cut  off  heads,  boil  separately 

in  salt  water  until  done,  about  fifteen   minutes.     Cut  the  rest  into  small 

pieces,  throw  them  into  two  quarts  of  boiling  stock.     Cook  gently  one 

hour.     Pass  through  a  fine  colander,  boil  again,  add  asparagus  heads,  the 

yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs  beaten  up  in  one-half  cup  cream.     Serve. 

M.  H.  T. 
ONION  SOUP  WITH  SALT  PORK. 

Take  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork  (slightly  lean  is  best),  cut  it  into  pieces 
half  an  inch  square.  Put  it  into  the  soup  kettle  with  sufficient  water  for 
the  soup.  Now  add  twelve  good-sized  onions  pared  and  sliced  fine. 
When  they  begin  to  boil  add  as  many  potatoes  pared  and  sliced.  When 
done  add  one  egg  beaten  well.  Serve  at  once.  Other  meat  can  be  used, 
if  desired.  Mrs.  Mary  Treadwell. 

QIBLET  SOUP. 

Giblets  from  two  or  three  fowls;  two  quarts  of  water;  one  of  stock; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  of  flour;  salt,  pepper  and  onion  if 
desired.  Put  giblets  on  to  boil  in  the  water  and  boil  gently  till  reduced  to 
one  quart  (about  two  hours);  take  out  the  giblets,  cut  off  tough  parts  and 
chop  the  remainder.  Return  to  the  liquor  and  add  stock.  Cook  butter 
and  flour  brown  and  add  to  the  soup.     Season.  Mrs.  M.  White. 

GUMBO  SOUP   WITH    STOCK. 

One  shank  of  beef,  crack  the  bone  and  put  it  in  the  pot,  with  just 
water  enough  to  cover.  A  tablespoonful  of  salt,  two  onions  chopped  fine, 
and  a  little  pepper.  Let  boil  six  hours;  then  take  from  fire,  remove  bone, 
and  cut  the  beef  fine.  Return  the  beef  to  the  pot  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  browned  and  mixed  in  butter,  and  four 
eggs  boiled  hard;  cut  in  slices.  Fraulein  Hirscii. 

FISH  SOUP. 

Clean  and  trim  any  kind  of  fish — fresh  or  salt  water.  Boil  the  fish 
with   a  head  of  celery,  a  small   quantity  of  parsley,  two  onions,  a  bay-leaf, 


SOUPS.  67 

and  five  cloves.     Use  water,  and  cover  the  saucepan  closely.     When  the 

contents  have  boiled  one  hour,  add  as  much  water  as  will  be  required  to 

make  the  soup.     Strain  and  stir  in  a  cup  of  cream.     Season  with  salt  and 

white  pepper.     Lay  in  the  tureen  some  eggs,  nicely  fried  in  butter;  allow 

one  for  each   person.     Pour  the  soup  over,  and   serve  with  toasted  bread. 

Mrs.  Lucy  Carr. 
TOMATO   SOUP   WITH    STOCK. 

A  quart  of  soup  stock,  two  cups  of  sliced  tomatoes.  Cut  up  a  small 
onion  and  slightly  brown.  Put  all  on  the  fire,  and  add  a  cupful  of 
milk,  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  a  little  pepper,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  a  salt- 
spoon  of  salt.  Let  boil  three  minutes.  Strain,  thicken  with  a  tablespoon 
of  flour,  made  into  a  paste  with  water,  and  serve  hot  with  croutons  of 

bread.  Mrs.  Eliza  Gill. 

CALF'S   FOOT    BROTH. 

Have  two  feet  thoroughly  cleaned.  Then  put  them  in  three  quarts 
of  water,  and  let  it  boil  until  it  wastes  away  to  three  pints.  Strain  and  set 
aside  in  a  cool  place.  When  cold,  remove  the  fat.  Heat  a  little  at  a 
time,  as  you  want  it,  and  add  salt  and  nutmeg,  if  you  like  the  flavor. 

Carrie  Phillips. 
ASPARAGUS   SOUP   WITH    STOCK— No.  2. 

Asparagus  makes  a  delicate  soup.  Use  one  large  bunch  of  asparagus, 
wash  and  cut  off  the  heads  in  one-inch  lengths  and  lay  them  at  one  side. 
Cut  the  remainder  into  halves  and  boil  them  in  a  generous  pint  of  white 
stock.  Put  into  a  small  saucepan  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two 
small  slices  of  onion.  Cover  and  let  cook  slowly  on  the  back  of  the  fire 
eight  minutes;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  until  the  mixture 
is  smooth  and  frothy,  but  not  brown.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
add  it  to  the  asparagus  and  cook  slowly  ten  minutes.  Then  rub  them 
through  a  coarse  sieve,  return  to  the  fire  and  stir  in  one  pint  of  cream  or 
rich  milk  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point  and  serve  immediately. 
Cook  the  heads  a  few  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water  and  add  them  to 
the  soup  when  in  the  tureen.  Mrs.  Annie  Hale. 

BARLEY   SOUP   WITH    STOCK. 

Wash  a  teacupful  of  pearl  barley  in  three  waters  and  boil  in  two 
quarts  of  soft  water  for  two  hours.  Drain  the  water,  rinse  in  cold  water 
and  it  is  ready  for  the  soup.  Plrst,  cut  three  slices  of  turnip,  and  half 
that  quantity  of  carrot  and  onion  into  small  pieces  and  boil  in  two  quarts 
soup  stock  until  tender.     Add  the  cooked  barley,  and  season  slightly. 

J.S. 


68  SOUPS. 

BISQUE  OF  CRABS. 

Take  a  dozen  live  crabs  and  place  in  some  cold  water  with  a  little 
salt,  and  let  soak  for  an  hour.  Now  hash  up  a  couple  of  carrots  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  onion,  and  fry  together  with  the  crabs,  shell  and  all,  in 
a  little  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  little  thyme  and  bay-leaf,  season  with 
salt  and  a  pint  of  white  stock,  then  cover  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes, 
after  which  take  out  the  crabs,  strain  the  broth,  and  place  the  liquid  to 
cool.  When  cool  pour  off  the  top.  Now  remove  the  shells  from  the 
crabs,  taking  out  the  lungs  and  the  small  legs  from  both  sides,  and  wash 
each  one  in  some  warm  water.  Next  drain  and  chop  them  with  about 
half  their  quantity  of  cooked  rice.  Add  a  little  of  the  juice  in  which  they 
have  been  cooked  and  then  drain  through  a  cheese-cloth.  Add  a  little 
salt  and  red  pepper,  and  place  over  the  fire  just  previous  to  serving,  but 
do  not  allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil.  Isabel  S. 

CABBAGE  SOUP  WITH  STOCK. 

(German  Style.) 

Take  one  sound  white  cabbage,  wash  and  trim  off  the  outer  leaves, 
chop  fine  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  quart  of  water.  Let  boil  until 
tender.  Add  a  quart  of  beef  broth,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  boil  once 
more.  Before  serving  stir  in  a  lump  of  butter  and  two  small  lumps  of 
sugar.     Serve  hot.  F.  R.  S. 

MACARONI   SOUP. 

(Italian  Style.) 

Put  four  sticks  of  macaroni  into  a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  one  onion.  Boil  until  the  macaroni  is  tender;  when  done  drain 
and  pour  over  it  two  quarts  of  good  broth,  beef,  chicken,  or  other  kind. 
Place  the  pan  on  the  fire  to  simmer  for  about  ten  minutes,  watching  lest 
it  break  or  become  pulpy.  Add  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and 
serve.  S.  S. 

CLEAR  50UP   WITH    NOODLES. 

Take  two  quarts  of  clear  beef  broth,  peel  and  slice  two  carrots  and  two 
onions;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  generous  lump  of  butter  and  one 
small  cabbage  cut  into  shreds,  cover  and  put  over  a  slow  fire,  so  as  to 
stew  gently  until  tender.  Shake  the  pan  occasionally  to  prevent  burning. 
When  the  vegetables  are  cooked  put  them  into  the  beef  broth  and  boil 
the  whole  gently  for  thirty  minutes,  then  strain.  To  make  the  noodles, 
slightly  warm  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  beat  to  a  cream,  then  work 


SOUPS.  69 

smoothly  into  it  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  two  well-beaten 
eggs.  Let  the  soup  boil  up  again;  drop  in  small  balls  of  the  ^^g  and  butter 
and  let  it  simmer  for  an  hour  longer.  A.  F.  C. 

CREAM  OF  SPINACH  WITH  STOCK. 

Take  one  pint  of  cold  cooked  spinach,  chop  and  pound  into  a  soft 
paste.  Put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  and  stir  it  about  fifteen  minutes.  Add  to  this 
one  quart  of  stock  and  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  let  boil  up,  then  rub 
through  a  strainer.  Set  it  over  the  fire  again,  and,  when  boiling,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

Mrs.  C.  Cayton. 

CORN  AND  TOMATO  SOUP  WITH  STOCK. 

Cut  one  pound  of  beef  into  small  pieces,  put  it  into  a  granite  kettle 
with  three  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  gently  two  hours.  Strain,  put  over 
the  fire  again  and  put  in  six  large  tomatoes  and  boil  for  an  hour.  When 
cooked,  drain  and  pass  the  tomatoes  through  a  fine  sieve.  Return  to  the 
stove.  Scrape  six  ears  of  corn  from  the  cob  and  put  into  the  soup;  also 
put  in  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Boil  the  soup  twenty  minutes;  serve  crisp  crackers.  Inez  Slocum. 

GOULASH. 

(Hungarian  Style.) 

This  can  be  made  of  chicken,  beef,  or  any  meat  desired.  The  easiest 
way  is  to  take  a  quart  of  cold  chicken  stock,  previously  salted,  a  quart  of 
cold  water  and  two  cups  of  boiled  chicken  meat  cut  into  dice.  Put  into 
granite  kettle  and  aud  one-half  dozen  fresh  ripe  tomatoes,  six  good-sized 
onions  and  let  boil  till  all  are  tender.  Then  add  salt  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful of  red  pepper.     Serve  in  soup  dishes.     To  be  eaten  with  toast. 

Mrs.  L.  M.  Miller. 

GREEN   PEA   SOUP   WITH   STOCK. 

Wash  the  neck  of  lamb  in  cold  water,  and  put  it  into  a  soup-pot  with 
six  quarts  of  cold  water;  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  let  boil 
gently  for  two  hours,  then  skim;  add  a  quart  of  shelled  peas,  a  little  pep- 
per; cover  and  let  boil  for  half  an  hour;  scrape  the  skins  from  a  pint  of 
small  young  potatoes;  slice  and  add  them  to  the  soup;  cover  and  let  boil 
for  half  an  hour  longer;  work  butter  size  of  an  Q.gg  and  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  flour  together,  and  add  to  the  soup  ten  minutes  before  taking  off  the 
fire.  Miss  R.  Lyon. 


70  SOUPS. 

SPLIT  PEA   SOUP   WITH    SALT   PORK. 

Wash  a  pint  of  split  peas  and  cover  with  tepid  water,  adding  a  pinch 
of  soda;  let  remain  over  night  to  swell.  In  the  morning  put  them  in  a 
kettle  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  adding  half  a  pound  of  lean  salt  pork 
cut  into  slices;  also  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Cook  slowly 
for  three  hours,  stirring  occasionally  till  the  peas  are  all  dissolved,  adding 
a  little  more  boiling  water  to  keep  up  the  quantity  as  it  boils  away. 
Strain  through  a  colander.  Serve  with  small  squares  of  toasted  bread. 
If  not  rich  enough,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Lillian. 

DRIED   BEAN  SOUP. 

One  quart  dried  beans,  one-half  pound  salt  pork  or  ham,  three  quarts 
of  cold  water,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Wash  the  beans  and  soak  them 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  the  water  off,  and  cover  them  again 
with  the  boiling  water;  add  the  pork  and  boil  gently  two  hours.  Press 
the  beans  through  a  sieve,  return  them  to  the  soup  kettle,  and  bring  to  a 
boil.  Add  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  a  speck  of  sugar,  and  serve  with 
toasted  bread.  Mrs.  M.  C. 

CARROT  50UP   WITH   STOCK. 

Put  in  soup  Kettle  a  knuckle  of  veal,  four  quarts  of  cold  water,  a  quart 
of  finely-sliced  carrots,  one  large  head  of  celery;  let  boil  two  and  a  half 
hours,  and  add  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  rice  and  boil  an  hour  longer;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve.  L.  M. 

TOHATO  CREAH  SOUP 

And  all  Vegetable  Soups,  see  Part  XL 


ROLLS,  PRETZELS,  COFFEE  CAKE,  ETC. 

(Directions  for  Making,  sefe  Page  157-158-161. ) 


GRANDMOTHER'S  BROWN  BREAD 

(Directions  for  Mailing,  see  Page  150.) 


ALL  KINDS  OF  WHITE  BREAD 
(How  to  Make.     See  Chapter  "Bread,  Biscuit,  Muffins,"  etc.) 


A  BRAIN  FOOD. 

FISH  is  pronounced  by  medical  authority  to  be  the  best  ''brain  food," 
of  all  the  meats.  It  is  also  more  easily  digested  than  the  flesh  of  ani- 
mals. In  cooking  fish  the  first  care  of  the  housewife  is  to  be  certain  that 
the  fish  she  is  about  to  cook  is  perfectly  fresh  and  thoroughly  clean.  In 
boiling  fish,  it  should  be  put  into  warm  water  and  boiled  gentl}-.  In 
removing  it  from  the  kettle,  avoid  breaking  the  skin  as  it  gives  the  fish  a 
ragged  appearance.  Some  cooks  have  kettles  with  a  strainer  on  the  bot- 
tom. The  usual  garnishes  of  fish  are  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsle}-. 
In  fr^-ing  fish,  the  fat  should  be  boiling  and  cover  the  fish.  Best 
results  are  obtained  when  the  fish  is  rolled  in  flour  or  bread-crumbs.  The 
best  color  is  obtained  when  the  fish  is  fried  in  Ko-nut,  a  vegetable  oil 
spoken  of  quite  at  length  in  Part  II. 

BROOK  TROUT. 

These  delightful  fish  are  usually  fried.  Wash  and  dr}-  the  fish,  being 
certain  that  they  are  dry  inside  as  well  as  outside,  sprinkle  a  little  pepper 
and  salt  over  them,  and  roll  in  corn  meal.  Use  one  part  butter,  to  two 
parts  lard  to  fr}-  a  golden  brown.  Drain,  and  serve  with  slices  of  bacon 
and  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings  and  laid  around  the  platter.  It  takes 
about  eight  minutes  to  fry  them.  Mrs.  Julia  Eaton. 

BAKED  HADDOCK. 

Scale  and  clean  a  three-pound  fish;  fill  with  forcemeat  and  sew  up; 
sprinkle  over  a  generous  suppl}-  of  salt  and  bread-crumbs;  put  three  even 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  tiny  pieces  on  the  fish;  bake  three-quarters  of 
an  hour,  basting  frequently.  I.  H.  B. 

73 


74  FISH. 

FORCEMEAT. 

One  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  beef  suet 
finely  chopped,  slice  of  onion  finely  chopped;  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  dash  of  cayenne.  Moisten  with  a  beaten  egg.  Take  up  the  fish  and 
make  sauce  by  putting  one  cup  of  milk  and  half-cup  of  water  in  pan;  add 
pinch  of  salt;  thicken  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Garnish  platter 
with  sliced  lemon  and  parsley.  Minnie  C.  White. 

BAKED  PICKEREL  WITH  OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Scale,  clean  and  wipe  the  fish  leaving  on  the  head  and  tail.  Lay  it 
on  a  buttered  pan,  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper,  spread  with  soft  butter 
and  dredge  with  flour.  Put  in  a  hot  oven,  and  when  the  flour  begins  to 
brown,  baste  with  butter  and  water.  Bake  forty  minutes,  and  serve  with 
oyster  sauce. 

Oyster  Sauce. — Parboil  a  half-pint  of  medium-sized  oysters,  drain  off 
the  liquor  and  add  enough  milk  to  make  a  generous  pint  of  sauce.  Cook 
one  rounded  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  corn-starch  in  a  saucepan 
and  when  well  mixed  stir  in  milk  mixture.  When  smooth  add  one-half 
a  cup  of  cream.     Stir  In  the  oysters,  season,  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Brown. 
BOILED  STURGEON. 

Cut  the  fish  into  thin  slices  like  veal  cutlets,  rub  them  over  with  but- 
ter and  sprinkle  with  pepper.  Serve  very  hot  with  lemon  garnish.  Cut 
off  the  skin  before  the  fish  is  boiled,  as  the  oil  in  the  skin  if  burned 
imparts  a  very  rank  flavor.  M.  V.  H. 

BOILED  SALT  MACKEREL. 

Soak  the  mackerel  over  night,  so  as  to  remove  the  salt.  Boil  in  a 
napkin  in  clear  water,  drain  and  lay  it  on  a  dish  with  a  garnish  of  parsley. 
Make  a  sauce  of  melted  butter,  and  serve  with  boiled  potatoes.         B.  J. 

BROILED  FRESH  HACKEREL. 

Draw  and  wash  the  mackerel,  cut  off  the  head,  rub  over  with  salt  and 
let  stand  for  an  hour.  Rub  a  gridiron  with  Ko-nut  or  olive  oil,  lay  on  the 
mackerel  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Garnish  dish  with  parsley  and  serve 
fish  hot.  Mrs.  Caroline  Preston. 

BAKED  WHITEFISH. 

Scale  and  clean  a  good-sized  fish,  cut  off  the  head,  take  out  the 
bones  by  fastening  the  head  of  the  fish  with  a  tack  to  the  table  and  begin- 


i 


FISH.  75 

ning  at  the  head  to  pull  all  bones  downward  and  stuff  with  the  following: 
Take  stale  bread,  soak  in  warm  (not  hot)  water,  squeeze  dry;  cut  in  pieces 
a  small  onion,  fry  in  butter;  add  the  bread,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  salt, 
pepper  and  a  little  sage;  heat  through,  and  when  taken  off  the  fire,  add 
the  yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs;  stuff  the  fish,  sew  up  and  entwine  with 
several  pieces  of  white  tape.  Rub  the  fish  slightly  over  with  butter;  cover 
the  bottom  of  a  pan  with  a  little  hot  water,  and  place  the  fish  in  it.  Bake 
brown  and  serve  with  drawn  butter.  Mrs.  C.  I.  Cronk. 

FRIED  BASS  WITH  BACON. 

Carefully  clean  the  required  number  of  bass,  season  well  with  pepper 
and  salt,  roll  in  flour,  then  drop  into  a  pan  of  very  hot  lard  or  Ko-nut  and 
fry  a  golden  brown.  Fry  in  a  separate  pan  some  slices  of  bacon;  one 
piece  for  each  piece  of  the  fish  and  lay  on  the  fish.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

A.  M.  C. 

FRIED   SHELTS. 

These  delicate  little  fish  cannot  be  opened  as  can  larger  fish.  Cut  off 
the  head  and  pull  the  insides  through  the  gills.  Wash  and  dry  in  a  cloth, 
then  roll  them  in  flour  or  bread-crumbs  three  or  four  times  till  they  are 
well  covered.  Drop  them  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  both  sides  to  a  golden 
brown.  It  takes  about  ten  minutes  to  cook  them.  Take  them  from  the 
pan  with  a  skimmer,  and  lay  them  on  a  platter,  garnishing  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  a.  R.  G. 

BAKED  COD. 

Take  the  middle  part  of  a  large  codfish  or  a  whole  small  one,  a  tea- 
cup of  bread-crumbs,  peppered  and  salted,  two  tablespoonfuls  boiled  salt 
pork,  finely  chopped,  one  tablespoonful  of  herbs — sweet  marjoram,  thyme, 
and  a  mere  suspicion  of  minced  onion — one  teaspoonful  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  one-half  a  teactip  of  melted  butter,  juice  of  one-half  a  lemon, 
one  beaten  &gg,.  Lay  the  fish  in  cold,  salted  water  for  half  an  hour,  then 
wipe  dry  and  stuff  with  a  forcemeat,  made  of  the  crumbs,  pork,  herbs, 
onion,  and  seasoning,  bound  with  the  beaten  Qgg.  Lay  in  the  baking- 
dish,  and  pour  over  it  the  melted  butter,  which  should  be  quite  thin, 
seasoned  with  the  sauce.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an  hour,  or 
longer,  if  the  piece  is  large,  basting  frequently,  lest  it  should  brown  too 
fast.  Add  a  little  butter  and  water  if  the  sauce  thickens  too  much. 
When  the  fish  is  done,  remove  it  to  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  gravy  over,  and 
serve.  Mrs.  Charles  Ebert. 


76  FISH. 

BOILED  COD  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Clean  carefully  a  fresh  codfish,  place  in  a  kettle  with  salted  cold  water 
and  boil  fast  at  first  then  slow.  When  done  take  out  and  remove  skin. 
For  sauce  put  a  cup  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan  and  stir  in  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour.  When  brown  stir  in  a  cup  of  cream,  add  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per.    Let  just  come  to  a  boil  and  serve  with  the  fish. 

Ina  T.  McMullen. 
BAKED   PIKE. 

Wash,  scale  and  clean  the  fish,  and  dry  it  perfectly  in  every  part. 
Fill  it  with  forcemeat,  and  skewer  it  with  its  tail  in  its  mouth.  If  the  fish 
is  not  stuffed,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  in  the  inside,  and  place 
an  ounce  of  butter  there.  Egg  and  bread-crumb  it  twice.  Season  the 
bread-crumbs  with  salt  and  cayenne,  and  mix  with  them  a  third  of  their 
quantity  in  shredded  parsley.  Pour  clarified  butter  over  the  fish,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Lay  a  buttered  paper  over  the  dish.  Any  good  fish 
sauce  may  be  sent  to  table  with  pike  dressed  in  this  way. 

Mrs.  Clarinda  Elliott. 

BAKED    PIKE— No.  2. 

After  scaling  and  cleaning  the  pike,  cut  it  across  in  slices  of  a  uni- 
form thickness,  and  mix  some  slices  of  raw  onion,  a  piece  of  butter,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  half  a  pint  of  sour  cream.  Lay  it  over  the  slices,  in  a  baking 
pan,  and  put  them  in  the  oven.  Bake  twenty  minutes,  basting  it  with  the 
cream  often.  Strew  cracker  crumbs  and  grated  cheese  over  the  fish,  and 
brown.  Remove  the  slices  of  pike  to  a  hot  platter,  pour  some  stock  in 
the  baking  pan  with  some  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper;  stir  a  couple  of 
minutes  over  the  fire  and  then  pour  it  over  the  fish,  and  it  is  ready  for  the 
table.  Mrs.  J,  Leroy. 

BROILED   SALHON. 

Cut  six  slices  from  the  salmon,  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dip  in  beaten  eggs  and  bread-crumbs.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan  and  cook 
both  sides  quickly.  Drain  and  lay  them  in  a  dish.  Garnish  them  with  a 
few  slices  of  lemon  dipped  in  parsely  chopped  fine  and  some  eggs  fried 
in  Ko-nut  oil.  Mrs.  B.  T.  Hall. 

BOILED  SALHON. 

Sew  as  many  pounds  as  desired  up  in  a  cheese-cloth  bag,  and  boil  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  the  pound  in  slightly  salted  water.  When  done, 
take  out  and  lay  upon  a  platter,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  fish. 
Prepare  a  small  cupful  of  drawn  butter  in  which  has  been  stirred  a  tea- 


FISH.  77 

spoonful  of  minced  parsley  and  the  juice  of  one-fourth  of  a  lemon.  Pour 
over  the  salmon  and  serve.  Garnish  with  parsley.  The  choicest  portion 
of  the  salmon  is  that  at  the  center  and  toward  the  tail. 

Parker  House. 
SCALLOPED   SALMON. 

Shred  one  can  of  salmon,  place  in  a  baking  dish  in  layers;  first,  a 
layer  of  rolled  cracker  crumbs,  then  one  of  salmon,  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per; repeat  until  dish  is  nearly  filled.  Then  take  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
butter  and  flour  beaten  well  together  and  stir  it  into  a  cup  of  boiling  milk; 
when  thoroughly  cooked,  stir  in  a  beaten  Q^g]  pour  this  over  dish  and 
bake.     When  nicely  browned  it  is  done.  Miss  M.  A.  Stone. 

SCALLOPED  SALHON— No.  2. 

Canned  salmon  forms  the  basis  of  many  nice  dishes.  Turn  the  con- 
tents of  a  can  into  an  earthen  bowl  for  an  hour  before  using.  Never  let  a 
tin  of  meat,  vegetables  or  fruit  stand  after  it  is  opened,  but  turn  out  the 
contents  at  once  into  some  crockery  or  stone  dish.  Pick  the  salmon  into 
small  fragments,  mix  with  one-third  the  quantity  of  bread-crumbs  and  add 
a  beaten  &gg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice  for  every  pint  of  the  mixture;  season  to  taste,  put  in  a  but- 
tered dish,  dust  with  crumbs  and  bake  brown. 

A  nice  cream  sauce  is  made  for  canned  salmon  by  adding  the  fish,  as 
it  comes  fromthe  can,  to  a  pint  of  the  sauce,  and  garnishing  with  bits  of- 
toast.  M.  E.  H. 

SALMON-AU    ENTREE. 

Remove  from  the  can;  break  up  carefully,  taking  away  all  the  oil,  and 
as  many  of  the  bones  as  possible.  Arrange  daintily  on  a  platter  with 
parsley  and  thin  slices  of  lemon.  M.  A.  C. 

SALHON   TURBOT. 

One  large  can  of  salmon,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  cup  of 
sifted  flour,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter.  Heat  the  milk  and  half  of  the 
butter,  stir  into  it  the  flour  which  has  been  mixed  smooth  in  a  little  water. 
Salt  and  let  cook  until  stiff,  stirring  to  prevent  burning.  When  cold,  stir 
in  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Have  a  baking  dish  ready,  fill  with  a  layer  of 
the  same  and  salmon  alternately.  Sprinkle  a  layer  of  rolled  crackers  on 
top,  moisten  with  milk  and  put  the  balance  of  the  butter  in  bits  over 
all.     Bake  about  twenty  minutes.     Serve  hot.  Mrs.  C.  F.  G. 


78  FISH. 

•  MOLDED   SALHON. 

One  can  salmon,  two  eggs  (beaten  lightly),  two  tablespoonfuls  melted 
butter,  one-half  cup  fine  bread-crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  corn-starch; 
chop  fish  fine,  beat  in  bowl  with  silver  spoon,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  put 
in  a  buttered  mold  and  steam  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Mrs.  Harley. 
SALMON   CREAH. 

One  can  salmon;  remove  skin,  bone,  and  fluid,  and  mince  fine.  For 
sauce,  a  little  more  than  one-half  pint  of  milk  thickened  with  corn-starch; 
add  salt  and  pepper.  Put  bread-crumbs  in  bottom  of  a  dish,  then  fish  and 
sauce  and  bread-crumbs  on  top.     Bake.  Mrs.  E.  P.  Campbell. 

PLANKED  SHAD. 

Remove  the  scales,  clean,  wash,  and  split  the  shad,  put  it  on  a 
hardwood  board  about  an  inch  and  one-half  thick  with  the  skin  side  down 
and  fasten  it  with  some  tacks,  put  the  board  over  the  fire,  rubbing  it 
once  in  a  while  with  butter,  and  roast  until  done.  The  plank  should  be 
well  seasoned  and  heated  before  placing  the  shad  upon  it  or  the  fish  will 
partake  of  the  flavor  of  the  wood.  When  done  turn  on  a  hot  dish, 
sprinkle  over  it  some  salt  and  pepper,  and  drop  upon  it  small  bits  of  but- 
ter.    Serve  with  slices  of  lemon.  The  Bourse,  Philadelphia. 

BROILED   SHAD. 

(Washington  Style.) 

Split  a  good-sized  shad  down  the  back  and  lay  on  a  platter,  upon 
which  is  one  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  leave 
it  here  an  hour,  but  turn  occasionally.  Rub  the  bars  of  a  double  gridiron 
with  oil  to  prevent  sticking,  lay  the  fish  on  and  broil  slowly,  doing  the 
inside  first.  Turn  frequently.  It  will  take  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes, 
according  to  the  size  of  fish,  to  cook.  When  the  bone  can  be  easily  lifted 
It  Is  a  sign  that  the  cooking  is  sufficient;  take  off  the  bone,  spread  over 
a  generous  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  a 
minute.     Excellent.  Arlington  Hotel,  Washington,  D.  C. 

BAKED   SHAD. 

Remove  the  scales  and  entrails  but  do  not  cut  off  the  tail  or  head. 
Wash  thoroughly  and  wipe  dry.  Fill  with  a  dressing  made  of  one  cup  of 
stale  bread-crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  chopped  onion,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  marjoram,  same  of  salt  and  a  shake  of  pepper.  Place 
the  fish  In  a  well-greased  pan.     Dredge  thickly  with  flour,  salt  and  pep- 


FISH.  79 

per.  Pour  a  cupful  of  hot  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  if  it  cooks 
away  add  more.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  every 
pound.     Serve  with  roe  sauce. 

Roe  Sauce. — Boil  the  roes  of  one  shad,  skin  and  mash  fine;  add  one 
cupful  of  drawn  butter  and  serA-e  at  once.  Mrs.  I.  Tibbitts. 

BOILED   FLOUNDERS. 

La}-  the  fish  in  a  kettle,  with  salt  and  water  in  the  proportion  of  six 
ounces  of  salt  to  each  gallon,  and  a  little  vinegar.  Let  the  water  boil  a 
minute  or  so.  then  remove  it  to  the  side  to  simmer  till  done.  The  fish 
must  not  boil  fast,  or  they  will  break.  They  should  simmer  fifteen  min- 
utes. _  Hazel. 

BOILED    HALIBLT. 

Purchase  a  thick  slice  cur  through  the  body,  or  the  tail  piece,  which  is 
considered  the  richest.  Wrap  it  in  a  floured  cloth  and  lay  it  in  warm 
water  with  salt  in  it.  A  piece  weighing  six  pbunds  should  be  cooked  in 
half  an  hour  after  the  water  begins  to  boil.  Melted  butter  and  parsley  are 
eaten  with  it.  If  an}^  is  left,  lay  it  in  a  deep  dish  and  sprinkle  on  it  a  little 
salt,  throw  over  it  a  dozen  cloves,  pour  in  some  vinegar,  and  it  will,  when 
cold,  have  much  the  flavor  of  lobster.  Mrs.  Sarah  Todd, 

BAKED    BASS. 

Make  a  filling  of  pounded  cracker  or  crumbs  of  bread,  an  ^^%,  Pep- 
per, clove,  salt  and  butter.  Fill  it  very  full,  an  when  sewed  up,  grate 
over  it  a  small  nutmeg  and  sprinkle  it  with  pounded  cracker.  Then  pour 
on  the  white  of  an  ^^^,  and  a  little  melted  butter.  Bake  it  an  hour  in  the 
same  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  serA-ed.  Portland  House,  Me. 

FRIED  FINNAN  HADDIES. 

Rub  Ko-nut  oil  on  both  sides  of  the  fish,  and  set  it  in  a  fr\ing-pan  with 

plenty  of  butter.     Shake  the  pan  over  a  clear  fire.     Three  minutes  will 

cook  it.     Then  rub  a  little  butter  over  it  and  send  to  table. 

Mrs.  Conant. 
SPANISH  COD. 

Take  one  or  two  thick  slices  of  cod,  tail  end  of  the  cod,  remove  the 
skin,  dredge  flour  over  the  fish,  and  fry  it  in  hot  lard  until  nicel}'  browned. 
Take  it  out  gentl}-  with  an  egg-slice,  drain,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan 
with  as  much  good  brown  gTa\y.  boiling,  was  will  swim  it.  Add  a  little 
salt  and  cayenne,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  lump  of  sugar,  an  onion 
"^tuck  with  two  cloves,  and  a  little  tomato  catsup.  Simmer  softly  till  the 
sh  is  cooked;  take  it  out,  place  it  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  gra\y,  thicken- 
ing it  with  a  little  browned  butter.  I,  \V,  M, 


80  FISH. 


FRIED  PERCH. 


After  washing  and  scaling  the  fish  wipe  them  dry,  flour  them  Hghtly 
all  over;  rub  off  the  flour,  dip  them  into  beaten  ^gg,  and  then  into  finely- 
grated  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  plenty  of  boiling  fat,  until  they  are 
nicely  browned.  Drain  a  few  minutes  on  an  inverted  sieve,  serve  on  a 
hot  dish,  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Send  shrimp  sauce,  anchovy  sauce, 
or  plain  melted  butter,  to  table  in  a  tureen.  Mrs.  Eliza  Pray. 

BROILED  SARDINES. 

These  tiny  fish  are  very  nice  when  broiled  over  hot  coals  a  minute  or 
so,  turning  them  once.  Large  slices  of  toast  must  be  ready;  on  each 
slice  place  two  of  the  fish,  and  then  pour  a  little  of  the  oil  which  was  left 
in  the  can.     The  oil  must  be  hot.  Inez  Heffel. 

RED  HERRINGS. 

Red  herrings  or  Yarmouth  bloaters  can  be  cooked  by  making  incisions 
in  the  skin  across  the  fish,  for  a  very  little  cooking  will  do  them.  If  there 
is  any  roe,  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  with  a  little  anchovy,  and  spread  it  on 
toast.  When  the  herrings  are  very  dry,  soak  them  in  warm  water  an  hour 
before  cooking.  P.  A.  Thrall. 

SALMON  CUTLETS  WITH  CAPER  SAUCE. 

Take  a  slice  of  salmon  two  inches  thick,  carefully  remove  the  bones 
and  skin,  cut  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and  flatten  them  on  the  chop- 
ping-board  with  a  cutlet  bat  dipped  in  water.  From  these  slices  cut  as 
many  cutlets  of  as  uniform  shape  as  you  can.  Place  them  quite  flat  on  a 
well-buttered  baking  tin,  sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  over  them,  and,  ten  min- 
utes before  they  are  wanted,  put  them  into  the  oven  with  a  sheet  of  but- 
tered white  paper  over  them.  Put  all  the  trimmings  of  the  salmon  into  a 
saucepan  with  carrots,  onions,  thyme,  parsley,  a  bay-leaf,  a  few  cloves, 
some  whole  pepper,  salt  to  taste,  and  a  little  more  than  a  pint  of  good 
stock.  Leave  this  to  boil  gently  till  reduced  one-half,  then  strain  the 
liquor  into  a  basin,  and  remove  any  fat  there  may  be.  Melt  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  add  to  it  half  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  stir  it 
on  the  fire  till  it  is  well  colored.  Add  the  liquor  to  this,  and  continue  stir- 
ring until  the  sauce  boils,  then  add  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  capers;  pour 
the  same  over  the  cutlets,  and  serve.  B.  Ellis. 


FISH.  •  81 

CUTLETS  OF  COD. 

The  ingredients  are  three  pounds  of  the  fresh  fish  cut  in  sHces  of  the 
thickness  of  three-quarters  of  an  inch,  and  taken  from  the  body  of  the 
fish;  a  handful  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  with  which  should  be  mixed  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  little  minced  parsley  and  an  egg,  beaten  light.  Enough 
dripping  to  fry  the  cutlets. 

Cut  each  slice  of  fish  into  strips,  as  wide  as  two  fingers,  dry  them  with 
a  clean  cloth,  rub  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  the  slices  in  the  egg, 
then  the  crumbs,  and  fry  in  enough  fat  to  cover.  Drain  away  every  drop 
of  fat,  and  lay  the  cutlets  on  a  napkin  on  a  hot  dish. 

Mrs.  C.  Leone. 
FISH  TURBOT. 

Cook  a  fish  of  about  four  pounds  in  salted  water  to  which  spices^ 
parsley,  and  celery  have  been  added.  Pour  in  a  cup  of  vinegar.  Then 
let  the  fish  become  cold  and  pick  into  small  pieces,  removing  the  bones 
and  skin.  Now  make  a  dressing  of  a  cup  of  milk,  two  large  tablespoons 
of  flour,  one  cup  of  sweet  cream,  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  ten  minutes,  then 
mix  with  fish,  stewing  a  little  parsley  over  mixture.  Grease  a  pudding 
form  with  butter,  then  fill  with  the  mixture.  Cover  the  top  with  crackers 
rolled  fine  and  browned  in  butter.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Casper. 
FISH  TURBOT— No.  2. 

Take  two  cups  of  flaked  fish,  one  cup  rolled  and  sifted  shredded  wheat 
biscuit  crumbs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  pepper,  and 
one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Use  cold  boiled  and  baked  fish  that  is 
left  over.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  cover  with  crumbs,  layer  of  fish,  pepper, 
butter  and  sauce  made  from  two  tablespoonfuls  of  wheat  flour,  two  of  the 
level  tablespoons  of  butter,  salt  and  milk.  Boil  till  it  thickens.  Proceed 
in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  filled,  finishing  with  crumbs,  and  dress  with 
butter.     Bake  slowly  forty  minutes.  E.  M.  B. 

FRIED  EELS. 

Clean  and  cut  the  eels  into  pieces  three  inches  in  length,  cover  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water,  in  which  salt,  pepper,  thyme,  onions  and 
carrots  sliced  thin,  and  one-half  of  a  glass  of  vinegar  have  been  put.  As 
soon  as  they  boil  take  from  the  fire,  and  let  them  become  cool.  Then  drain 
them  and  dry.  Mix  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  beating  the  egg  first,  and  dip 
each  piece  in.  P  ry  them  brown  in  drippings.  Place  them  on  a  dish,  and 
have  a  tartar  sauce  ready  to  serve  with  them.  Mrs.  Mamie  Frye. 


82  •  FISH. 

BROILED    EELS. 

Skin  and  clean  a  good-sized  eel;  remove  the  backbone  and  cut  the 
eel  into  five  or  six  pieces.  Dip  each  piece  into  egg  and  then  into  bread- 
crumbs which  have  been  salted  and  peppered.  Put  on  a  greased  gridiron 
with  the  skin  downward,  over  a  clear  fire,  and  broil,  turning  over  when 
done  on  one  side.  Put  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with 
tartar  sauce.  E.  H.  Dougherty. 

STEWED  EELS. 

This  is  a  favorite  dish  with  many.  Clean  and  skin  three  pounds  of 
eels,  and  remove  every  vestige  of  fat  from  the  inside.  Chop  an  onion 
fine,  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  season  to  taste,  and  chopped  parsley. 
Cut  the  eels  in  pieces,  about  two  inches  in  length;  season,  and  lay  in  sauce- 
pan containing  the  melted  butter.  Strew  the  onion  and  parsley  over  all, 
cover  the  saucepan  closely,  and  set  in  a  pot  of  cold  water.  Bring  this 
gradually  to  a  boil,  then  cook  very  gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  until 
they  are  tender.     Turn  out  into  a  deep  dish.  Mary  Floyd. 

PICKED  CODFISH. 

This  is  an  old-fashioned  dish  and  name,  but  with  most  persons  a  great 
favorite.  Pick  the  fish  in  small  particles,  separating  the  fibers  as  near 
as  possible,  the  finer  the  better.  P^reshen  by  leaving  it  in  water  one  hour. 
Pour  off  the  water  and  cover  again  with  fresh.  Bring  it  to  a  scald,  pour  it 
off  and  pour  over  the  fish  just  enough  milk  to  cover  it.  Add  to  a  quart 
of  the  soaked  fish  butter  the  size  of  one-half  of  an  Qgg,  a  very  little  flour 
and  a  dust  of  pepper.  Beat  up  two  eggs,  and  after  taking  off  the  fish 
thicken  it  by  stirring  in  the  egg.  Some  let  it  boil  after  the  egg  is  added, 
but  if  this  is  done  the  egg  will  curdle.  Another  way  is  to  boil  eggs,  chop 
and  mix  them  in  the  gravy.  Louise  Harris. 

BAKED  CODFISH  AND  POTATOES. 

Mix  two  cupfuls  mashed  potatoes,  one  cupful  shredded  codfish,  two 
eggs,  butter  (size  of  a  walnut),  one  pint  of  milk,  pepper  to  taste.  Bake 
until  set  (about  fifteen  minutes).  Miss  Cheesbrough. 

FISH  CUTLETS. 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper  one  pint  of  any  kind  of  cold  cooked  fish; 
make  a  little  thick  cream  sauce  of  milk,  butter  and  flour,  and  when  cold 
form  it  with  the  fish  into  shapes  of  cutlets.  Put  the  cutlets  first  into 
cracker  crumbs,  then  into  egg  and  again  into  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat 
until  brown.  Susan  I.  Langley. 


FISH.  83 

FISH  STEAK5  FRIED. 

Cut  the  slices  of  fresh  fish  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  dredge  with 
flour  or  corn-meal  slightly  salted  or  dip  them  in  ^gg  slightly  salted  and 
roll  in  crumbs;  fry  a  light  brown.  Salmon  or  any  other  large  fish  can  be 
fried  this  way.  A.  M.  Dickerson. 

COD'S  ROE. 

Take  cod's  roe  that  has  been  smoked,  shave  it  into  small  pieces,  put  it 
in  a  saucepan  with  butter  and  a  little  pepper.  Stir  well  over  the  fire  and 
pour  it  on  pieces  of  toast  cut  diamond-shaped.  Mrs.  G.  S. 

CREAMED  FRESH  CODFISH. 

Take  a  piece  of  boiled  fresh  cod,  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  and  pick 
into  flakes;  put  these  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Put  on  the  fire,  and  when  the  contents  of  the  pan  are  quite  hot  add  a  pint 
of  cream  and  milk;  thicken  a  trifle  and  all  is  ready  to  serve. 

T.  R.  Rich. 
CREAMED  CODFISH. 

Pick  (not  shred)  one  cupful  of  codfish;  place  in  a  spider  and  fill 
and  cover  with  cold  water.  Stir  a  moment  over  the  fire  and  drain  off  the 
water.  Stand  on  the  stove,  cover  the  fish  with  one  and  one-half  pints  of 
milk  and  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Stir  into  a  cup  of  cold  cream 
two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  when  the  milk  on  the  stove  is 
about  to  boil  mix  this  with  it.  When  the  mixture  has  thickened  stand 
where  it  will  boil  no  longer  and  stir  into  it  one  ^gg.     Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  a.  M.  Woods. 
CREAMED  FINNAN  HADDIE. 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  a  small  salted  finnan  haddie  pre- 
viously boiled,  and  pick  into  flakes  with  a  fork.  Place  in  a  saucepan  one 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  add  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  milk,  cook  a  few  moments;  season  with  pepper;  thicken  with  flour  and 
butter  creamed;  serve  on  a  hot  platter  garnished  with  toast. 

Amy  Brown. 

R.  A.  HiLLIER. 

DELICIOUS  FISH  CHOWDER. 

Two  pounds  of  fresh  white  fish,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  five 
small  potatoes,  one  small  onion,  six  tomatoes,  one  quart  of  milk,  butter 
the  size  of  a  small  hen's  Qgg  and  a  teaspoon  of  flour.  Pick  the  fish  to 
pieces.     Remove   bone   and   skin;    cut  potatoes    into  dice;  the  bacon  in 


84  FISH. 

small  pieces;  rub  the  butter  and  flour  to  a  cream.  Spread  in  a  granite 
kettle  half  of  the  potatoes,  then  half  of  the  fish,  then  sprinkle  in 
the  minced  onions,  then  the  bacon,  then  half  the  tomatoes.  Then  a 
shake  of  salt  and  pepper;  add  the  rest  of  the  fish,  tomatoes,  potatoes,  and 
more  salt  and  pepper,  using  in  all  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  pepper.  Cover  with  water,  let  simmer  for  half  an  hour. 
Scald  the  milk,  put  a  pinch  of  soda  into  the  chowder  and  stir;  add  the  hot 
milk  to  the  butter  and  flour;  stir  smooth;  then  add  to  the  chowder.  Serve 
very  hot.     Excellent.  Mira  A.  Miller. 

BOSTON  FISH  CHOWDER. 

Take  a  large  fish,  as  cod,  haddock  or  halibut  and  cut  in  slices,  after 
having  scaled  and  cleaned  it.  Then  cut  some  slices  of  raw  salt  pork 
(pickled)  and  place  them  in  the  bottom  of  your  iron  kettle.  When  partly 
tried  out,  put  on  top  of  the  pork  a  layer  of  fish,  then  a  layer  of  onions,  and 
one  of  potatoes,  both  sliced  quite  thin.  Add  to  each  layer  a  little  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  very  hard  crackers  (pilot  bread  is  nicest)  to  the  whole, 
placing  them  on  the  sides  and  top,  then  add  cold  water  to  nearly  cover 
them.  After  the  water  has  commenced  boiling,  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
is  ample  time  to  cook  it.  Be  careful  not  to  let  it  boil  too  long,  or  break 
the  slices  of  fish,  but  preserve  them  as  whole  as  possible. 

Mrs.  Lydia  Floyd. 

FISH    BALLS. 

The  remnants  of  any  cold  fish,  cod,  whitefish,  turbot,  etc.,  can  be 
used,  by  breaking  the  fish  to  pieces  with  a  fork,  removing  all  the  bones 
and  skin,  and  shredding  very  fine.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed 
potatoes,  make  into  a  stiff  batter  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  some  milk, 
and  a  beaten  egg.  Flour  your  hands  and  shape  the  mixture  into  balls. 
Fry  in  boiling  lard  or  drippings,  to  a  light  brown. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Baldwin. 

FISH    FRITTERS. 

The  remains  of  any  cold  fish  can  be  used  here,  and  the  same  bulk  of 
mashed  potatoes  as  the  fish.  Pick  the  fish  from  the  bones  and  skin,  and 
pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  one  onion,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  then 
mix  well  with  it  the  mashed  potatoes,  and  bind  together  with  a  well- 
beaten  (1^^.  Flatten  the  mixture  out  upon  a  dish  or  pastry  board,  cut  into 
small  rounds  or  squares  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  to  a  light  brown.  Pile  it 
in  a  napkin  on  a  very  hot  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with  any 
kind  of  fish  sauce.  Mrs.  Charlotte  Aiken. 


FISH.  85 

FISH   CAKES 

Save  the  fish  left  from  dinner  and  use  while  warm.  Remove  the  skin 
and  bones,  and  mix  with  mashed  potatoes.  Add  pepper,  salt,  chopped 
parsley,  and  an  ounce  of  butter.  Moisten  with  an  ^g^g  into  a  paste,  and 
roll  into  balls;  then  flatten  and  dip  into  egg.  Fry  in  butter  or  lard  to  a 
nice  brown.  E.  Protis. 

FISH  CROQUETTES. 

Mix  over  the  fire  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  and 
half  a  gill  of  cream.  Add,  off  the  fire,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  little  season- 
ing, and  half  a  pound  of  cold  dressed  fish  beaten  to  a  paste.  Let  the 
mixture  cool,  and  form  it  into  balls,  let  these  be  egged  and  breaded.  Fry 
to  a  nice  brown  in  hot  fat,  and  serve  with  gravy,  made  by  boiling  down 
the  bones,  fins,  and  tails  with  an  onion.  Add  an  anchovy  and  season  to 
taste.  LuRA  Earl. 

FISH   CROQUETTES— No.  2. 

Take  remnants  of  boiled  cod,  salmon  or  turbot,  and  pick  the  flesh  out 
carefully.  Mince  it  moderately  fine.  Stir  a  piece  of  butter,  a  small 
spoon  of  flour  and  some  milk  over  the  fire  till  they  thicken.  Then  add 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  together  with  finely-chopped 
parsley,  and  then  the  minced  fish.  When  very  hot  remove  from  the  fire, 
turn  on  a  dish  to  get  cold,  then  shape,  and  finish  the  croquettes. 

Adelaide  Munson. 
PANADA    FOR   FISH. 

Put  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  rather  less  than  two  gills  of  water  into  a 
saucepan,  boil  them  together,  and  add,  by  degrees,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  flour;  stir  until  the  mixture  is  smooth,  but  do  not  let  it  burn.  When 
off  the  fire,  mix  with  it  the  yolks  of  three  well-beaten  eggs.  When  cold, 
ready  for  use.     It  is  excellent  in  making  forcemeat.  J.  E.  Place. 

HALIBUT   TIMBALE. 

Take  a  pound  of  the  raw  fish,  and  cut  it  in  small  pieces  afterward 
pounding  it  in  a  mortar  and  straining  it  through  a  sieve.  Make  a  paste 
of  a  cup  of  bread-crumbs  and  half  a  cup  of  milk.  Take  off  the  fire,  add 
the  pulped  fish,  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  paprica.  Beat 
in  slowly  the  whipped  whites  of  five  eggs.  Fill  molds,  after  buttering, 
with  the  mixture,  and  set  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce.  Mrs.  C.  Whiting. 


86  FrSH. 

COD   SOUNDS   AND   TONGUES 

Soak,  scrape,  and  boil,  as  many  cod  sounds  as  required.  Drain  them, 
and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  sufficient  white  stocli  to  cover  them; 
season  the  sauce  with  salt,  pepper,  and  powdered  mace,  thicken  it  with  a 
lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and,  just  before  serving  it,  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.     Serve  with  Qg§,  sauce.  Mrs.  Frances  Curry. 

FISH   CAKES— No.  2. 

Four  medium-sized  potatoes,  one  and  one-third  cups  of  shredded 
codfish,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  Ko-nut,  one  egg;  sprinkle  pepper. 
Pare,  quarter  and  boil  the  potatoes.  Measure  the  fish  and  soak  in  cold 
water  ten  minutes  to  draw  out  the  salt  and  press  it  in  a  fine  strainer. 
When  the  potatoes  are  soft,  add  the  fish,  and  stir  the  mixture  over  the 
fire  to  dry  it.  Add  the  seasoning,  butter  and  beaten  egg,  and  mash  all 
together.  Roll  into  round  cakes  and  fry  in  deep  hot  Ko-nut.  Drain  them 
on  clean  brown  paper  and  serve  hot.  C.  A.  S. 

BAKED    FISH    WITH   OYSTER   DRESSING. 

Take  fine  fish,  soak  in  salt  water  ten  minutes;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  slightly  and  fill  with  as  much  of  the  following  dressing  as  possible; 
tie  with  string;  roast,  basting  often. 

Dressing. — Pint  of  oysters,  one-half  teacupful  of  coarse  rolled  crack- 
ers, one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  black  pepper,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  cel- 
ery salt,  tiny  pieces  of  butter;  mix  very  carefully;  spread  dressing  on  top 
also.     Delicious.  Mrs.  T.  Spofford. 

CODFISH    FRITTERS. 

One-half  pound  of  codfish,  four  medium  potatoes,  two  eggs;  boil  fish 
and  potatoes  together  till  potatoes  are  cooked;  mash  together  and  beat 
very  lightly;  add  the  eggs  well  beaten  and  fry  bi own  on  a  griddle  like 
pancakes.  Slice  the  potatoes  and  prepare  the  fish  in  small  pieces  before 
boiling.  Louise  Dewey. 

FINNAN   HADDIE   A    LA    DELHONICO 

Half  pound  finnan  haddie,  one  cup  cream,  one  hard-boiled  egg,  yolk 
of  one  raw  egg,  one  cup  of  grated  cheese;  pick-up  fish  with  silver  fork, 
pour  boiling  water  over  it;  let  stand  a  few  minutes;  drain;  braize  it  in 
butter;  add  the  cream,  then  the  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  small  squares,  the 
cheese  and  raw  Qgg,  also;  pepper,  thicken  with  flour  and  let  cook  seven 
or  eight  minutes.  Serve  on  small  pieces  of  toast.  Delicious  in  chafing 
dish.  *  Mrs.  R.  Hoham. 


FISH.  87 

SALMON   MOLD. 

Large  can  of  salmon  rubbed  fine,  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately  until  light,  one-half  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  beat  the  crumbs  into  the  eggs; 
rub  the  butter  into  the  salmon;  put  together  in  a  well-buttered  bowl; 
steam  one  hour.     Serve  with  drawn  butter  sauce.  Mrs.  R.  Elliott. 

FISH   TURBOT— No.  2. 

Cook  whitefish  tender,  remove  bones,  mince  fine,  add  a  little  chopped 
celery,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  For  the  dressing  heat  one  pint  of 
milk,  thicken  with  flour;  when  cool  add  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  one- 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter;  put  in  baking  dish  a  layer  of  fish,  then  layer 
of  sauce,  until  the  dish  is  full;  cover  the  top  with  cracker  crumbs  and 
bake  one  hour.  Minerva  Van  Allen. 

DELICIOUS   LENTEN  DISH. 

Parboil  a  whitefish  and  pick  apart.  Make  a  sauce  of  one  pint  of  milk, 
two  eggs,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Butter  a  baking- 
dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  fish,  pour  over  some  of  the  sauce,  grate  a  trifle  of 
nutmeg  on  this,  and  so  proceed  until  fish  and  sauce  are  used  up.  Cover 
top  layer  with  fine  bread-crumbs,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  bake  a  golden 
brown.  Mrs.  L.  Tibbitts. 

SCALLOPED   HERRING. 

Soak  five  salt  herrings  over  night.  Divide;  remove  all  skin  and 
bones;  cut  into  inch  squares.  Have  ready  a  dozen  of  good-sized  cold 
potatoes,  alternate  layers  of  sliced  potatoes  and  fish,  adding  bit  of  butter 
and  good  sprinkling  of  pepper  to  each  layer  of  fish,  beginning  and  ending 
with  potatoes.  Cover  with  a  sauce  made  of  three  cupfuls  of  milk  and 
three  beaten  eggs.  Lastly  adding  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  fine  bread- 
crumbs mixed  with  one  teaspoonful  of  drawn  butter.  Bake  about  forty 
minutes.     Serve  hot.  J-  J-  M. 

SHAD   ROE— FRIED. 

The  roes  of  shad  can  be  served  with  the  fish  or  alone.  Before  boil- 
ing the  shad  place  the  roes  in  a  spider  of  hot  fat.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  cook  well.  They  should  be  crisp  and  brown  on  the  outside. 
Serve  on  a  platter.  Lillie. 


88  FISH. 

5ALT   WHITEFI5H    WITH    CREAM   SAUCE. 

There  are  many  delightful  ways  of  cooking  salt  fish— one  of  the  best 
i^  to  soak  over  night  in  cold  water;  drain  and  put  in  spider,  pour  over 
(ream  and  milk,  half  and  half.  Add  butter  and  speck  of  pepper;  let  come 
to  a  boil  and  thicken.     Fine  served  for  breakfast  with  baked  potatoes. 

L.  M. 
SALT  HACKEREI BROILED. 

Soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  Drain  thoroughly,  wipe  dry  and  put 
on  gridiron  in  hot  oven;  heat  through,  then  place  over  hot  coals  and 
Ijroil.  Pour  over  melted  butter,  sprinkle  on  a  little  pepper,  and  serve  hot. 
Smoked  finnan-haddie  is  fine  cooked  the  same  way.  Miss  R.  A.  T. 

HOW  TO   CURE   AND   SMOKE    FISH. 

Scale,  slit  the  fish  up  the  back  and  clean.  Wipe  with  a  damp  cloth 
but  do  not  wash.  To  twenty  pounds  of  fish  allow  one  pint  of  salt,  one 
pint  of  brown  sugar  and  one  ounce  of  salt-peter.  Mix  well  together  and 
rub  the  fish  well  inside  and  out  with  this  mixture.  Put  one  fish  over  the 
other  with  a  board  on  top,  and  on  this  place  heavy  weights  to  press  them 
down.  Allow  them  to  remain  so  for  sixty  hours,  then  drain,  wipe  dry, 
stretch  open  and  fasten  with  small  pieces  of  stick.  Smoke  them  for  five 
days  in  a  smokehouse  or  in  a  barrel  over  a  smothered  wood  fire. 

Mrs.  L.  B.  M. 
FISH   SAUCES,  GRAVIES,    ETC. 

See  department  entitled  "Meat  and  Fish  Sauces  and  Gamishings. " 


5*?V 


HOW    TO    COOK    THEM. 

TH  E  principal  shell  fish  _  .   -  r  - 

lobsters  and  mussels,     it  aiely 

imperative  that  oj'sters  should  l  ,        -r*  and         *^ 
the  best  way  to  insure  this,  is  to  purchase 

them  when  possible  in  the  shell  and  open  them  as  yoc  u-'r  them.  0>-sters 
are  among  the  most  edible  of  their  species,  and  when  fresh,  are  delicious 
articles  of  food,  besides  being  held  by  some  medical  men  as  nutritious  for 
delicate  and  consumptive  persons.  There  is  an  old  maxim  that  they  are 
to  be  used  only  during  the  months  which  contain  the  letter  "t."  Wash 
each  oj-ster  when  eaten  raw,  by  dipping  it  into  cold  water.  The  juice 
should  go  through  a  fine  sieve,  which  removes  all  shell  and  prevents  anv^ 
being  found  in  the  dishes.  Loteters  are  in  season  from  March  to 
November.  Thej-  are  eaten 
at  other  seasons  but  their 
meat  is  light  and  string^-. 
If  used  at  other  seasons  it 
is  best  to  get  the  canned 
lobster.  Lobsters  must  be 
boiled  alive  else  the\-  are 
unwholesome.  The  larger 
thej'  are  the  older  they  are. 
Mussels  are  not  so  general- 
ly liked,  although  growing 
in  favor.  The}%  too,  must 
be  eaten  onlj-  during  the 
months  containing  the  let- 
ter "r." 


90  SHELL   FISH. 

PHILADELPHIA  BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Take  large  oysters  and  strain  through  a  colander,  put  juice  on  fire 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  skim;  melt  some  butter  and  brown  it,  then 
thicken  with  flour  and  brown  together,  then  add  the  juice  with  a  little 
water,  to  make  sufficient  gravy  to  soak  the  toast;  wipe  the  oysters  dry  and 
broil  on  a  broiler;  mix  with  gravy  and  spread  over  the  toast. 

Mrs.  L.  Brown. 

MOTHER'S  RECIPE  FOR  FRYING  OYSTERS 

Put  plenty  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  let  it  get  real  hot  before  you 
begin  frying.  Beat  up  well  as  many  eggs  as  you  judge  you  will  need;  dip 
the  oysters  therein,  one  by  one,  then  roll  them  very  lightly  in  cracker 
crumbs,  then  drop  them  in  the  hot  butter.  They  will  brown  nicely  before 
the  oysters  cook  too  much.  Letitia  Buzley. 

FRIED  OYSTERS— No.  2. 

Select  fine,  large  oysters,  dry  them  out  of  their  own  liquor.  Have 
ready  a  plate  of  eggs  and  a  plate  of  bread-crumbs.  Lay  them  in  the  ^^^ 
a  few  minutes,  and  then  roll  them  in  the  bread-crumbs,  allowing  them  to 
remain  in  these  also,  for  a  minute  or  two;  this  will  make  them  adhere, 
and  not  come  off  as  a  skin,  when  in  the  pan.  Fry  in  half  butter  and  half 
lard,  in  order  to  give  them  a  rich  brown.  Make  it  very  hot  before  putting 
the  oysters  in.  Mrs.  R.  Hathaway. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Roll  out  puff  paste  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  into  squares, 
cover  ten  patty  pans,  and  put  on  each  a  crust  of  bread  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  Roll  out  another  layer  of  paste  the  same  thickness,  cut  as  above, 
wet  edge  of  the  bottom  paste  and  put  on  top;  pare  them,  so  the  edges 
will  be  even,  notch  them  with  the  back  of  the  knife,  rub  them  lightly  with 
the  yolk  of  an  &^^,  and  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  When  done  slice  very  thin  off  the  top,  remove  the  bread  and  the 
inside  paste. 

Filling.— Parboil  two  dozen  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  after  boiling  it 
down  to  half,  cut  the  oysters  in  halves,  put  them  in  a  pan  with  an  ounce  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  half  a  gill  of  cream  and  a  little  salt.  Stir  this  mix- 
ture over  the  fire  five  minutes,  fill  the  patties,  put  the  cover  on,  and  serve 
hot.  Mrs.  George  Bonham. 


SHELL  FISH.  91 

FILLING  FOR  OYSTER  PATTIES— No.  2. 

Mix  well  together  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  flour, 
then  pour  half  a  pint  of  oyster  liquor  and  one-half  a  pint  of  cream  into 
the  butter  and  flour.  Beat  and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Warm  the 
oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  and  add  them  to  the  mixture  just  before  they 
are  to  be  used  in  the  patties.  Mrs.  L.  Cleveland. 

STEAMED  OYSTERS. 

Wash  the  oyster  shells  thoroughly  with  a  brush,  place  them  side  by 
side  in  a  steamer,  close  it  well  and  put  over  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water. 
The  deep  shell  must  be  undermost  in  order  that  no  juice  may  be  wasted. 
As  soon  as  the  shells  open,  the  oysters  are  done  and  should  be  served  at 
once  with  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  a  thin  slice  of  lemon  with  each  oyster. 

Mrs.  a.  Anderson. 

ROAST  OYSTERS  IN  THE  SHELL. 

Prepare  the  oysters  as  for  steaming,  then  roast  them  over  a  clear  fire 
with  the  large  shell  down.  Two  minutes  after  the  shells  open,  the  oysters 
are  done.     Take  up  quickly  and  serve  in  the  shells  on  a  hot  platter,  with 

pepper,  salt  and  butter  to  suit  the  individual  taste. 

F.  H.  N. 
OYSTER  CROQUETTES. 

Half  a  pint  raw  oysters,  half  a  pint  of  cooked  veal,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  crumbs,  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs.  Chop  the  oysters  and  veal  very  fine.  Soak  the  crackers  in 
oyster  liquor,  and  then  mix  all  the  ingredients,  and  shape.  Dip  in  egg 
and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  as  usual.  The  butter  should  be  soft- 
ened before  mixing.  F.  E.  P. 

OYSTER   CHOWDER. 

Take  one  cupful  of  chopped  fresh  celery,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  table- 
spoons of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  one  salt-spoon  of  salt  and  the 
fleshy  part  of  two  and  one-half  dozen  oysters  cut  in  small  pieces.  Make  a 
white  sauce  by  cooking  the  flour  and  butter  together  and  adding  the  milk 
gradually;  then  add  the  oysters,  salt  and  cook  five  minutes;  just  before 
serving  add  the  celery.     Serve  on  thin  slices  of  toast.  W.  T.  M. 

OYSTER    ROLLS. 

Very  thin  slices  of  bacon  are  required,  with  the  rind  cut  off.  Pour 
two  drops  of  essence  of  anchovy  on  each  oyster,  four  drops  of  lemon,  a 
very  little   cayenne    pepper,    and  roll   each   oys<^er  in   a  slice  of  bacon. 


92  SHELL   FISH. 

When  you  have  rolled  enough,  skewer  them  and  fry  them.  Then,  when 
done,  take  each  roll  separately  and  place  it  on  a  fired  crouton.  These 
rolls  must  be  eaten  very  hot.  Mrs.  Carrie  Oliver. 

SCALLOPED   OYSTERS. 

Take  a  dish,  put  a  layer  of  the  oysters  as  free  from  their  liquor  as  they 
can  be  made,  and  a  layer  of  rolled  crackers;  another  layer  of  oysters, 
another  of  crackers,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Add  a  little  salt  and  pepper 
and  pieces  of  butter  between  each  layer,  and  moisten  with  cream.  Bake 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Mrs.  Clarissa  McB. 

OYSTER  PANCAKES. 

Chop  one  pint  of  oysters — canned  ones  do  very  well— and  add  enough 
milk  to  the  liquor  to  make  a  pint,  using  a  little  cream.  Make  a  batter  by 
stirring  it  into  a  scant  pint  of  flour,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt  and  two  eggs 
very  well  beaten.  If  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  is  sifted  with 
the  flour,  you  are  sure  to  have  pancakes  light,  but  some  cooks  prefer  to 
depend  on  the  eggs.  When  the  batter  is  perfectly  smooth  beat  in  the 
oysters  and  bake  on  a  griddle,  like  any  pancakes.  Try  one,  and  if  too 
substantial  add  a  little  more  milk.  If  you  like  them  richer,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter.     Serve  with  toasted  crackers. 

A  Housewife:. 
BALTIMORE  FRENCH   OYSTERS. 

Heat  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  in  a  stew-pan  till  it  is  quite 
brown.  Drain  the  oysters  from  their  liquor,  adding  to  the  butter.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  cook  till  they  curl  up  round  the  edges. 

Ivy. 
BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Take  a  dozen  large  oysters,  roll  lightly  in  bread-crumbs,  place  them 
on  a  fine  wire  oyster  broiler,  baste  with  butter,  and  brown  lightly  over  a 
very  hot  fire,  season  thoroughly,  and  serve  on  toast  with  celery  sauce. 

Mrs.  Huldah  Jenks. 
OYSTERS  CURRIED. 

Take  two  dozen  oysters,  one  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  curry- 
powder,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  two  ounces  of  butter  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Chop  the  onion  up  quite  fine,  mix  the  curry-powder,  flour, 
and  butter  together,  and  put  all  into  a  stew-pan,  simmering  till  a  nice 
brown,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  the  liquor  of  the  oysters  and  the  lemon- 
juice,  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Put  in  oysters,  boil  up  once,  and  serve 
with  a  dish  of  boiled  rice.  Harriet  Winters. 


SHELL   FISH.  93 

CREAMED  OYSTERS   ON  TOAST. 

Take  one  dozen  select  oysters  and  wash  them  until  perfectly  free  from 

pieces  of  shell,  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  strain  the  liquor,  pour  it  over, 

place  the  pan  at  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  a  few 

minutes  until  the  oysters  plump  up.     Remove  the  oysters  with  a  skimmer 

and  put  them  on  a  warm  dish  in  the  oven;  add  to  the  liquor  one  teacupful 

of  cream  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Place  the  pan  on  the  fire;  when  the 

liquor  boils  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  which  has  been  stirred 

one  teaspoonful  of  flour.     When  creamy  put  in  the  oysters  and  remove 

the  pan  from  the   fire.     Have  ready  some  pieces    toasted  bread  nicely 

buttered;  put  the  oysters  on  them,  pour  over  the  cream  and  serve  very  hot. 

Marion  Witte. 
CREAMED  OYSTERS— No.  2. 

Beard  one  pint  fresh  oysters,  boil  them  in  their  own  liquor  until 
plump,  drain,  and  pour  over  them  this  sauce:  To  one-half  tablespoon  of 
butter,  melted,  add  one  large  tablespoon  flour;  cook  a  few  minutes,  then 
stir  in  slowly  one  cup  of  hot  cream  or  milk;  seasort  with  pepper,  salt  and 
one-half  teaspoon  celery  salt.     Pour  over  hot  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  C.  I.  Brown. 
OYSTERS. 
(Italian  Style.) 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  spread  a  dish  with  butter,  lay  the 
oysters  on  it,  strew  finely-minced  parsley  over,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per and  sprinkle  with  grated-  Parmesan  cheese.  Put  the  dish  into  the 
oven,  and  when  nicely  brown  serve  with  hot  wafers. 

Mrs.  Frank  E.  Phillips. 
OYSTER   STEW. 
(Milk  or  Cream.) 

Drain  the  liquor  from  two  quarts  of  oysters;  mix  with  the  liquor  a 
small  teacupful  of  hot  water,  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  set  it  over 
the  fire  in  a  saucepan.  Let  it  boil  up,  then  skim;  wash  the  oysters,  put 
them  in  the  hot  liquor,  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and  when  they  "ruffle" 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  The  instant  it  is  melted  and  well-stirred 
in,  put  in  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  take  the  saucepan  from  the  fire. 
Serve  hot  with  oyster  crackers.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Kellog. 

OYSTER  STEW. 

(Plain.) 

Same  as  above,  using  only  oyster  liquor  and  more  water  instead  of 
milk  or  cream.  H.  F.  L. 


94  SHFA.L   FISH. 

OYSTER  50UP. 

See  "Meat  Soups"  Part  I. 

BOSTON  OYSTER  PIE. 

Butter  the  inside  of  a  pudding  dish,  line  it  with  pie  crust,  set  into  the 
oven  and  bake;  when  done  fill  with  the  following  filling.  Pick  off  all 
shell  that  may  be  found  in  three  pints  of  oysters;  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  barely  enough  of  the  liquor  to  keep  them  from  burning; 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  add  a  little  sweet  cream  or  milk,  and 
one  or  two  crackers  rolled  fine;  simmer,  but  not  boil,  2i?,  that  will  shrivel 
them.  Have  ready  an  upper  crust  the  proper  size  and  baked.  Pour  fill- 
ing in  pie,  place  on  upper  crust  and  serve  hot.  A.  L.  C. 

MOCK  OYSTERS. 

Grate  one-half  dozen  ears  of  corn  with  a  coarse  grater,  beat  the 
whites  and  yolks  of  three  eggs,  add  them  to  the  corn,  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  wheat  flour,  one  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  pepper  to 
taste;  stir  well  and  drop  spoonfuls  of  this  batter  into  a  frying  pan  with 
hot  butter  and  lard  mixed,  or  Ko-nut,  and  fry  a  light  brown  on  both  sides. 
Canned  corn  may  be  used  instead,  if  desired.  E.  E.  A. 

STEWED  TERRAPIN. 

(Maryland  Style.) 

Note. — Terrapin  are  much  esteemed,  and  those  which  command  the 
highest  price  come  from  the  Chesapeake  Bay  region.  They  are  also  found 
in  most  of  the  seas  of  warm  climates.  The  kind  most  in  demand  is  the 
"diamond-back,"  or  salt-water  terrapin,  and  is  never  found  far  from  the 
seacoast.  Rarely  does  their  length  exceed  ten  inches,  and  their  weight 
about  eight  pounds.  The  female  is  the  largest,  and  its  flesh  most  prized. 
When  they  are  large  they  are  called  "counts."  They  feed  on  both  animal 
and  vegetable  food. 

The  ordinary  way  of  killing  them  is  to  plunge  them  into  boiling 
water,  head  first,  and  boil  them  fifteen  minutes.  We  cannot  wonder  that 
vegetarians  revolt  against  the  cruelties  practiced  toward  the  animals  that 
furnish  us  with  food. 

Cut  up  one  terrapin,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  glass  of  Madeira,  a  little 
salt,  and  pepper,  and  one  ounce  of  butter.  Beat  a  teacup  of  cream  with 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  hard  boiled,  and  put  it  in  with  the  terrapin  moving  it 
around  in  the  pan,  but  not  letting  it  boil.  Use  a  soup  turpeen  to  hold  it 
when  done.  Mrs.  Claude  Morey. 


SHELL   FISH.  95 

TERRAPIN  STEAK. 

Take  a  terrapin,  cut  steaks  from  it,  and  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  a  few  lumps  of  butter  on  them  and  broil  on  a  gridiron. 
Serve  the  steak  very  hot.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Palmer. 

DIAMOND-BACK  OR  SALT-WATER  TERRAPIN. 

The  diamond-back  turtle  is  highly  prized  for  food.  Select  a  thick, 
fat  terrapin,  and  plunge  it  head  first  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Throw 
in  some  salt,  put  the  cover  on,  and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Take 
out,  remove  the  black  skin  from  the  shell,  and  the  nails  from  the  claws. 
Wash  the  terrapin  thoroughly  in  warm  water,  and  remove  the  shells. 
Take  out  the  dark  green  gall  bladder,  which  is  about  the  size  of  a  cherry, 
the  sand  bag,  entrail  and  remove  the  head.  Preserve  the  eggs,  if  there 
be  any.  All  the  pieces  of  meat,  together  with  the  fat  and  legs,  should  be 
kept  in  water  until  wanted  for  use.  W.  J.  P. 

STEWED  TERRAPIN    WITH  CREAM. 

Take  some  of  the  flesh  prepared  as  above,  cut  in  little  pieces,  and  put 
over  the  fire  in  a  stew-pan,  together  with  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt, 
and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Let  stew  for  a  short  time,  add  one  cup  of 
hot  water  and  an  extra  piece  of  butter;  stew  for  ten  minutes,  then  add 
two  cups  of  rich  milk  and  let  it  stew  for  another  five  minutes;  then  remove 
the  pan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  stir  in  a  little  thickening.  Cover  the 
pan  and  let  stand  for  five  minutes.  Pour  the  terrapins,  sauce  and  all,  over 
hot  tea-biscuits  or  buttered  toast.  E.  J.  C. 

BOILED  LOBSTER. 

Take  a  live  lobster,  wash  thoroughly  and  put  into  a  kettle  of  boiling 

water,  slightly  salted,  having  first  cleaned  and  tied  the  claws  together. 

Keep  the  water  boiling  for  half  an  hour.     When  done  take  out,  lay  on  its 

claws  to  drain,  and  wipe  dry.     Rub  the  shell  with  a  little  salad-oil,  which 

will  give  it  a  clear  red  color.     Do  not  boil  a  lobster  too  long  or  the  meat 

will  be  stringy.     The  Germans  put  a  handful  of  caraway  seeds  into  the 

salt  and  water.     If  not  sufficiently  boiled,  the  spawn  will  not  be  brightly 

colored.  S.  F.  E. 

LOBSTER. 

(Newport  Style.) 

Split  two  cooked  lobsters  in  half,  remove  all  the  meat,  and  divide  the 
shells  into  eight  parts.  Cut  the  meat  fine,  crack  the  claws,  taking  care 
not  to  destroy  their  shape,  pick  out  the  meat.     Melt  two  tablespoonfuls 


96  SHELL   FISH. 

of  butter,  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  and  cook  two  min- 
utes; add  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  milk,  stir  and  cook  to  a  thick, 
smooth  sauce;  season  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper;  mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  one-half  a  gill  of  cream, 
add  them  to  the  sauce,  cook  a  few  minutes,  next  add  the  lobster  and  one 
teaspoonful  parsley  chopped  fine,  stir  two  minutes  over  the  fire.  Fill 
this  preparation  in  the  lobster  shells,  sprinkle  one  teaspoonful  grated 
bread-crumbs  over  each  one  and  a  few  drops  of  melted  butter.  Place  the 
shells  in  a  shallow  pan  and  bake  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

How  TO  Arrange. — Cut  a  piece  of  bread  oblong  and  toast,  fasten 
this  in  the  center  of  an  oblong  dish,  and  cover  with  parsley  butter  (butter 
mixed  with  parsley  chopped  fine),  fasten  the  lobster  claws  with  small 
skewers  in  the  center  on  top  of  the  bread,  dress  the  lobster  around,  it 
garnish  with  small  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  serve.  Mrs.  L.  A.  B. 

SAUCE  FOR  LOBSTER. 

Mix  a  salt-spoonful  of  raw  mustard  and  a  small  pinch  of  salt  and  pep- 
per smoothly  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  cold  water;  add  gradually  one- 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  best  vinegar.  Stir,  gently  over  the  fire  until  the 
vinegar  is  hot,  then  put  in  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  and  serve. 

D.  R.  L. 

CREAMED  LOBSTER. 

One  pint  milk,  one  lobster,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 
Cut  lobster  in  small  dice,  boil  the  milk,  add  the  butter  and  flour  and  when 
smooth  add  lobster  and  seasoning;  simmer  ten  minutes.     Serve  on  toast. 

Fifth  Avenue  Hotel. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  ATLANTIC  CITY. 

One  lobster,  one  quart  of  milk,  six  crackers,  split  and  buttered;  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
rolled  in  one  of  flour.  Scald  milk,  stir  in  seasoning,  add  butter  and  flour; 
cook  three  minutes,  add  lobster.  Simmer  five  minutes.  Line  a  tureen 
with  crackers;  serve  with  sliced  lemon.  Chef. 

LOBSTER  STEW. 

Cut  a  lobster  into  small  squares,  cook  slowly  in  fresh  butter,  adding  a 
cup  of  cream  sauce.  Pour  in  some  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  a  little 
curry-powder.  Salt  and  pepper  and  serve  on  slices  of  thin,  crisp,  buttered 
toast.  Mrs.  P.  J.  Simmons. 


SHELL   FISH.  97 

LOBSTER  PATTIES. 

One  tablespoonful  of  lobster  meat  cut  into  dice,  six  mushrooms,  one 
truffle,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  cream,  salt,  cayenne.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  saucepan 
and  when  melted  add  one  level  tablespoonful  of  flour;  cook,  but  not 
brown;  add  slowly  the  stock  and  stir  until  perfectly  smooth;  then  add  the 
cream;  after  it  begins  to  thicken  add  the  lobster  meat,  the  chopped  truffle 
and  mushrooms.  Season  highly.  Let  simmer  for  five  minutes.  This 
must  be  creamy,  but  not  too  soft.  Have  ready  rich  puff  pattie  shells;  fill 
and  serve  at  once.  A.  R.  A. 

LOBSTER    CROQUETTES. 

Cut  one-half  of  a  boiled  lobster  into  small  pieces;  put  one  tablespoon 
of  butter  into  a  stew-pan  and  when  hot  sprinkle  in  one  tablespoon  of  flour 
and  cook;  pour  in  a  cup  of  boiling  cream,  let  it  boil,  and  add  lobster;  stir 
until  scalding  hot,  then  take  from  the  fire,  and  when  slightly  cooled  stir 
in  three  beaten  eggs;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  return  to  the  fire  and  stir; 
let  boil  long  enough  to  set  the  eggs;  butter  a  dish  and  spread  the  lobster; 
when  cold  form  into  pyramids;  dip  into  bread-crumbs  and  fry.  Serve 
hot.  A.  M.  B. 

LOBSTER  FARCIE. 

Remove  the  lobster  from  the  shell,  and  cut  the  fish  into  small  pieces. 
Stir  in  the  meat  a  thick  cream  sauce.  Season  with  salt,  red  pepper, 
Worcestershire  sauce,  and  a  small  quantity  of  onion  juice.  Put  into 
shells  again,  sprinkle  thickly  with  bread-crumbs,  and  brown  in  the  oven 
very  slowly.  A.  M.  D. 

L0B5TER  SAUSAGES. 

Pick  the  flesh  from  a  medium-sized  freshly-boiled  lobster.  Mince 
fine  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  a  little 
salt,  cayenne,  and  pounded  mace,  and  half  of  the  coral,  which  has  been 
pounded  separately,  and  pressed  through  a  hair  sieve  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon.  Shape  the  mixture  into  rolls  like  sausages,  sprinkle  the  rest  of 
the  coral  over  them,  and  place  them  in  oven  with  a  moderate  fire  until 
they  are  quite  hot.  Serve  them  on  a  folded  napkin,  and  garnish  with  let- 
tuce leaves.  Mrs.  Clara  Bristow. 

COLD  LOBSTER. 

Take  off  the  large  claws  and  crack  the  shell  lightly,  without  disfigur- 
ing the  fish.  Split  open  the  tail  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  dish  the  fish  on  a 
folded  napkin,  with  the  head  in  an  upright  position  in  the  center,  and  the 


OH  SIfh/J.   FISIL 

tail   and   claws  arranged  neatly  round   it.     Garnish   with   parsley.      Salt, 
cayenne,  mustard,  salad-oil,  and  vinegar  should  be  eaten  with  it. 

Mrs.  H.  Brown. 
BOILED  nUSSELS. 

Brush  the  shells  and  wash  the  mussels  in  several  waters,  so  they  will 
he  free  from  grit.  Put  them  into  a  deep  saucepan  (without  water)  and 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them.  Spread  a  napkin  over  them  in  the  sauce- 
pan, put  the  lid  on,  and  scald  them  over  a  sharp  fire.  Shake  them  about 
briskly,  to  keep  them  from  burning.  When  the  shells  open,  take  the 
saucepan  off  the  fire,  strain  the  liquor  into  a  bowl,  and  take  out  the  fish. 
Very  carefully  remove  the  little  piece  of  weed  which  is  found  under  the 
black  tongue  and  throw  it  away.  If  the  mussels  are  left  too  long  on  the 
fire  they  will  become  leathery  Mrs.  Croly. 

BROILED  SOFT-SHELL  CRABS. 

Thoroughly  clean  the  desired  number  of  soft-shelled  crabs,  dip  them 
into  melted  butter  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Then  put  them  on 
the  gridiron  and  broil  until  the  shells  are  slightly  brown.  When  done 
serve  with  melted  butter.     Garnish  the  plate  with  lemons  cut  into  quarters. 

J.  M.  P. 
FRIED  SOFT-SHELL   CRABS. 

Have  ready  a  dish  of  rolled  cracker  mixed  with  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  on  the  stove  a  granite  pan  half  full  of  hot  fat;  beat  an  o.^^,  roll 
the  crabs  in  the  crumbs  and  dip  in  the  egg,  then  roll  again  in  the  crumbs 
and  drop  into  the  smoking  fat.  When  done  take  out  with  a  skimmer, 
lay  on  brown  paper  to  free  them  from  grease  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  B. 
CRAB  CROQUETTES. 

Take  a  pint  of  fresh  crab  meat,  chop  very  fine,  add  one-half  pint  of 
bread-crumbs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  mix  thoroughly.  Roll 
one  dozen  fresh  oysters  in  this  preparation,  dip  them  in  light  ^^^  batter 
and  also  m  the  crumbs  again.  Place  some  fresh  butter  in  a  very  hot  pan 
and  fry  slowly.  Mrs.  Hattie  Bostwick. 

POTTED  CRAB. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  shell  and  claws  of  a  freshly-boiled  crab. 
Pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  pounded  mace.  Press  it  into 
small  jars,  cover  it  with  butter,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an 
hour.  When  cold,  pour  freshly-clarified  butter  over  it.  Set  it  aside  until 
the  butter  becomes  cold.  G.K.B. 


SHELL   FISH.  99 

DEVILED  CRABS. 

Boil  the  crab  and  extract  the  meat  therefrom,  season  with  cayenne 
pepper,  mustard,  salt  and  such  table  sauce  as  you  may  prefer;  put  into  a 
covered  saucepan  with  hot  water  sufficient  to  keep  from  burning;  add 
cracker  dust  moistened  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  together  with  a 
quantity  of  butter.  Serve  in  the  back  shell,  putting  a  sprig  of  parsley 
with  each.  H.  J.  F. 

CRAB   FARCIE. 

Take  all  the  meat  from  the  shells,  and  weigh  with  bread-crumbs, 
allowing  a  pound  of  the  meat  to  a  pound  and  one-quarter  of  the  crumbs. 
The  crumbs  must  cover  the  meat.  Put  pieces  of  butter  over  the  whole, 
and  bake  in  the  oven  ten  minutes.  Serve  with  lemon  and  parsley, 
chopped.  Mrs.  Felice  LaMonte. 

SCALLOPS. 

This  fish  much  resembles  an  oyster,  though  it  is  larger,  and  tastes 
like  a  crab.  Dry  them  after  washing,  and  trimming  aw^ay  the  beard  and 
black  parts,  then  roll  in  cracker  dust,  afterward  in  ^%%  and  crumbs,  and 
drop  them  into  boiling  fat  for  a  minute,  so  they  will  take  on  a  light  brown. 
The  crumbs  must  have  salt  and  pepper  mixed  with  them. 

Mrs.  Callahan. 
LITTLE-NECK    CLAMS  SERVED  RAW. 

Wash  the  required  number  of  clams  in  water  and  scrub  well  with  a 
brush.  Wipe  and  dry  them.  Xow  open  and  cut  them  from  their  shells. 
Place  five  or  six  on  a  plate  on  the  half  shells  on  top  of  cracked  ice.  Put 
half  a  lemon  in  the  center  of  the  plate.  Serve  with  crackers  and  a  small 
dish  of  finely-chopped  cabbage  with  fresh  dressing.  W.  O.  T. 

STEAMED  CLAMS. 

^New  Eng'.and  Style.; 

Scrub  the  required  number  of  clams;  place  when  clean  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire  without  any  water  and  heat  until  the  shells  open.  Take  out 
the  clams  and  pour  the  liquor  into  a  jar  to  settle.  Remove  the  clams 
from  their  shells,  pulling  off  the  thin  skin  round  the  edge,  and  cutting 
off  the  Vjlack  end  with  a  pair  of  scissors.  When  the  water  has  settled 
pour  it  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  clams  and  heat  but  do  not  boil.  Take  out 
the  clams  and  serve  on  brown  bread.  H.  T.  P. 

*■  ^  FOR  CLAM  BAKE 

See  Chapter  'Camping  Out." 


100  SHELL  FISH. 

ROASTED  CLAMS. 

Wash  them  and  lay  them  on  a  gridiron  over  the  hot  coals.  As  soon 
as  the  shells  open  take  off  the  top  shell  and  place  a  little  butter  and  pep- 
per on  them.     Oysters  may  be  done  in  the  same  way.  Mrs.  Finn. 

CLAMS  ON  TOAST. 

Chop  fine  two  dozen  clams,  melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  then  add  the  clams  with  one-half  a  pint  of 
their  juice;  season  well  and  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes.  Just  before  serv- 
ing add  a  cup  of  cream  and  let  come  to  a  boil.     Serve  hot  on  toast. 

Mrs.  C.  I.  Hewitt. 
CLAM  FRITTERS. 

Take  twelve  large,  or  twenty-five  small  clams  from  their  shells;  if  the 
clams  are  large  divide  them.  Mix  two  gills  of  flour,  one  gill  of  milk,  half 
as  much  of  the  clam  liquor,  and  one  ^^^  well  beaten.  Make  the  batter 
smooth,  and  then  stir  in  the  clams.  Drop  the  batter  by  tablespoonfuls  in 
boiling  lard;  let  them  fry  gently,  turning  them  when  done  on  one  side. 

F.  C.  R. 
SHRIMPS. 

Have  half  a  pint  of  shelled  shrimps.  Then  make  a  thick  sauce:  a 
heaped  teaspoonful  of  flour,  half  an  ounce  of  butter  and  a  gill  of  milk. 
Flavor  it  with  a  little  mace,  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  in  the  shrimps.  When 
well  heated  pour  the  whole  out  onto  a  hot  dish,  trim  the  dish  round  with 
cold  boiled  rice,  and  serve.  Mrs.  Annie  Rust. 

SHRIMPS  CREAMED. 

Heat  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  half  a  grated  onion.  When 
hot,  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice;  add  a  cup  of  cream  and  half  a 
pint  of  canned  or  fresh  shrimps.  Stir  until  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point, 
then  simmer  about  five  minutes.     Serve  on  toast.  Eastman  Hotel. 

CREAMED  SHRIMPS   ON   TOAST. 

Wash  and  drain  one  can  of  shrimps  or  wash  the  same  amount  of 
fresh-gathered  ones  and  remove  shell.  Put  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter;  when  it  melts  add  the  same  quantity  of  flour  and  rub 
smooth,  but  do  not  brown.  Pour  on  this  a  quart  of  milk  and  bring  to  a 
boil.  Season  with  pepper,  add  the  shrimps  and  let  the  mixture  stand  on 
the  back  of  the  stove  until  i/t  is  heated  through,  then  pour  over  toasted 
bread.  Mrs.  N.  K.  B. 


SHELL  FISH.  lOl 


MACARONI   AND   0Y5TER5. 


Break  a  pint  of  macaroni  into  inch  pieces.  Put  in  a  saucepan  and 
cover  with  boiling  water.  Keep  at  the  boihng  point  for  one-half  an  hour. 
Have  ready  one  pint  of  oysters,  salt,  pepper  and  one-half  of  a  cupful  of 
cream.  Drain  the  macaroni,  put  a  layer  in  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle 
over  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  little  dots  of  butter  and  a  little  cream;  then  a 
layer  of  the  oysters  and  another  of  the  macaroni  with  more  salt,  pepper  and 
butter.  Sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  over  the  top,  add  bits  of  butter  and  a 
little  more  cream  if  necessary.  Put  a  cover  over  the  dish  and  bake  till 
nearly  done;  then  remove  cover  and  continue  baking  till  a  delicate  brown. 

Mrs.  Emily  B. 
OYSTER  TOAST. 

Boil  one  cupful  of  oyster  liquor  with  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  milk  and 
cream  mixed,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper;  pour  it  over  some  toasted  bread  and  set  it  in  the 
oven  five  minutes,  then  lay  broiled  oysters  on  the  slices  and  serve  hot. 

D.  B. 
OYSTER   RAREBIT. 

Clean  and  remove  the  hard  muscle  from  one-half  oi  a  pint  of  oysters, 
parboil  them  in  their  own  liquor  until  their  edges  curl,  then  remove  to  a 
hot  bowl.  Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one-half  of  a  pound  of 
grated  cheese,  one  salt-spoonful  of  salt  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  into 
a  dish;  while  the  butter  is  melting  beat  two  eggs  slightly  and  add  to  them 
the  oyster  liquor,  mix  this  gradually  into  the  melted  cheese,  add  the 
oysters  and  turn  at  once  over  hot  toast.  L.  Miller. 

CLAM   CHOWDER. 

One  dozen  and  one-half  of  clams.  Scrub  shells  and  place  in  a  kettle 
over  the  fire.  Cover  with  one  quart  of  boiling  water.  As  soon  as  shells 
open  remove  from  fire.  Save  the  water.  One-third  of  a  pound  of  salt 
pork,  chopped  fine;  four  large  potatoes  sliced  thin.  Put  pork  in  kettle. 
After  frying  till  brown  add  strained  water  and  the  juice  of  the  clams, 
the  potatoes  and  three  onions  sliced  thin.  Simmer  one  and  one-quarter 
hours;  add  a  quart  of  milk,  or  water,  if  preferred,  cook  fifteen  minutes 
longer;  add  clams  and  serve.  Julia  Thompson. 

BROILED  FROGS'  LEQS. 

Lay  two  dozen  frogs  on  their  backs.  Cut  from  the  neck  along  the 
side  of  the  belly  and  cut  again   across  the  middle  of  the  belly.     Take  out 


102  SHELL   FISH. 

the  entrails  and  cut  away  the  head,  leaving  only  the  back  and  legs.  Skin 
and  chop  off  the  feet,  then  wash  thoroughly  and  blanch  in  scalding  salted 
water.  Lay  on  a  dish  and  pour  over  a  little  olive  oil  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Turn  over  several  times  in  this  seasoning  and  broil  for  three 
or  four  minutes  on  one  side,  then  turn.  Broil  altogether  about  seven 
minutes,  and  serve  with  a  maitrc  if  hotel  sauce.  Mrs.  T.  F.  Kinney. 

FRIED    FROGS'    LEGS. 

Clean  two  dozen  frogs'  legs  and  dip  them  singly,  first  in  a  beaten  egg 
then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  plunge  them  singly  into  very  hot  fat  and  fry 
for  five  minutes.  Drain,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with  luaih'e 
d hotel  sauce  and  Saratoga  chips.  W.  O.  C. 

FRICASSEED  FROGS'  LEGS. 

Clean  two  dozen  frogs  as  above  and  put  them  in  a  granite  saucepan 
with  a  little  butter.  Place  on  the  fire  and  cook  until  the  butter  begins  to 
brown,  then  pour  over  a  teacupful  of  hot  water,  cover  the  pan  and  stew  for 
twenty-five  minutes;  skim  off  most  of  the  butter  and  add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Thicken  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  remove  from  the  fire.  Serve  on  hot 
buttered  toast.  G.  M.  J. 

FROGS'  LEGS  STEWED. 

A  chopped  or  sliced  onion,  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  small  piece  of  raw 
ham  cut  up  very  small,  half  a  green  pepper,  a  sliced  tomato,  a  teaspoon  of 
rice,  a  cup  of  hot  water  and  one  of  cream.  Put  two  ounces  of  butter  in 
saucepan,  lay  the  frogs'  quarters  in  this  and  fry  gently.  Then  add  the 
other  ingredients,  boiling  till  done.  Take  out  of  the  pan,  strain  the 
gravy,  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  cream.  Place  the 
frogs'  legs  in  a  proper  dish,  pour  over  the  grav}^  and  send  to  the  table. 

C.  E.  P. 


BY  THE  word  game  is  meant  all  animals  and  birds  which  live  in  the 
woods  and  fields  in  a  state  of  nature,  which  have  never  been  domes- 
ticated and  are  proper  to  be  eaten.  There  are  many  sorts  of  game — from 
the  little  quail,  prairie  chicken,  and  kindred  birds,  to  the  roe,  deer  and 
other  hoof-footed  species.  The  flesh  of  wild  fowl  has  an  aroma  more 
marked  than  that  of  the  tame  ones. 


HOW   TO   SELECT   POULTRY. 

Poultry  ma}'  be  served  in  many  fashions,  and  is  generally  eaten  with 
pleasure.  In  selecting  it  full-grown  fowls  have  the  best  flavor,  provided 
they  are  young.  The  age  can  be  determined  by  turning  the  wing  back- 
ward— if  it  3'ields,  it  is  tender.  The  same  is  true  if  the  skin  on  the  leg  is 
readily  broken.  Older  poultry  makes  the  best  soup.  In  dressing  poultry, 
chickens  only  should  be  scalded.  All  other  fowl  and  game  are  best  dry- 
picked.  The  intestines  should  be  removed  at  once,  but  frequently  in  ship- 
ping the}^  are  left  in  and,  hence,  when  removed,  the  fowl  needs  washing 
in  several  waters.  The  next  to  the  last  water  should  contain  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  soda,  which  sweetens  and  renders  all  more  wholesome. 
The  giblets  are  the  gizzard,  heart,  liver  and  neck. 

The  best  pan  in  which  to  bake  all  kinds  of  game  and  fowl  is  a  double 
pan  or  one  with  a  hinged  cover.  The  latter  has  been  put  upon  the  mar- 
ket within  a  few  years  and  contains  a  small  aperture  in  the  top  which  per- 
mits the  steam  and  gas  to  escape  when  wished,  but  confines  the  aroma, 
which  is  absorbed  b}-  the  meat. 

I(i3 


104  POULTRY  AND   GAME. 

SAGE  DRESSING. 

A  good  sage  dressing  for  geese  or  ducks  is  obtained  by  mixing  one 
pint  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  one  table- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  teaspoons  of  powdered 
sage,  one  teaspoon  of  powdered  sweet  marjoram,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoon 
of  black  pepper.  Mix  all  together,  and  moisten  by  adding  the  butter. 
This  can  be  served  on  a  separate  dish,  as  a  dressing  for  pork  when 
roasted.  Mrs.  Jane  Hart. 

FORCEMENT   BALLS. 

These  may  be  made  by  chopping  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet, 
together  with  a  little  lemon  peel,  and  some  parsley.  Mix  with  a  bowl  of 
bread-crumbs,  flavored  with  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg.  The  yolks  of  two 
eggs  will  moisten  it,  when  it  must  be  rolled  in  flour,  and  made  up  into 
small  balls  and  baked  in  a  hot  oven  till  crisp.  These  balls  are  fine  to 
stuff  fowls  with.     A  little  ham  chopped  or  pounded  makes  them  richer. 

Mrs.  Margaret  Anderson. 

STUFFING    FOR   GOOSE   OR  TAME   DUCK. 

Mash  potatoes  finely,  season  highly  with  minced  onion,  sage,  salt  and 
pepper.  Never  fill  a  fowl  more  than  two-thirds.  Apples  can  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  potatoes.  G.  W.  P. 

ROAST  TURKEY    WITH  OYSTER   DRESSING. 

Dress  the  turkey  carefully  and  rub  thoroughly  inside  and  out  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Stuff  with  a  dressing  prepared  as  follows:  Take  a  loaf 
of  stale  bread,  cut  off  crust  and  soften  by  placing  in  a  pan,  pouring  on 
warm  water,  never  boiling,  squeezing  out  with  the  hand  all  the  water, 
add  one-half  a  pound  of  melted  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one- 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  drain  off  liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters, 
bring  to  a  boil,  skim  and  pour  over  the  bread-crumbs;  mix  all  thoroughly 
and  if  dry,  moisten  with  a  little  sweet  milk;  lastly,  add  the  oysters,  being 
careful  not  to  break  them.  Sew  up  the  openings,  spread  the  turkey  over 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  place  in  a  dripping-pan  in  a  well-heated  oven, 
add  half  a  pint  of  hot  water,  and  roast,  basting  often.  Turn  until  nicely 
browned  on  all  sides,  and  about  one-half  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  baste 
with  butter  and  dredge  with  a  little  flour — this  gives  a  frothy  appearance. 

When  making  the  gravy  if  there  is  much  fat  in  the  pan,  pour  off  most 
of  it  and  add  the  chopped  giblets  previously  boiled  until  tender,  and  the 
liquor  in  which  they  were  cooked,  place  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour 


POULTRY  AND   GAME.  105 

in  a  pint  bowl,  mix  smooth  with  a  little  cream;  fill  up  bowl  with  rich  milk, 
and  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan;  boil  several  minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
and  pour  into  the  sauce-bowl.     Serve  with  cranberry  sauce.  Chef. 


CHESTNUT  DRESSINQ. 

Shell  a  quart  and  one-half  of  chestnuts.  Put  them  in  hot  water  and 
boil  until  the  skins  are  soft,  then  drain  the  water  and  remove  the  skins. 
Replace  the  chestnuts  in  water,  and  boil  until  soft.  Take  out  a  few  at  a 
time,  and  press  through  a  colander  while  hot.  Season  the  mashed  chest- 
nuts with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  one- 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  W.  P.  B. 


PLAIN  ROAST  TURKEY. 

Pluck  the  bird  carefully  and  singe  off  the  down  with  lighted  paper; 
break  the  leg  bone  close  to  the  foot,  hang  up  the  bird  and  draw  out  the 
strings  from  the  thigh.  Never  cut  the  breast;  make  a  small  slit  down  the 
back  of  the  neck  and  take  out  the  crop  that  way,  then  cut  the  neck-bone 
close,  and  after  the  bird  is  stuffed  the  skin  can  be  turned  over  the  back 
and  the  crop  will  look  full  and  round.  Cut  around  the  vent,  making  the 
opening  as  small  as  possible,  and  draw  carefully,  taking  care  that  the  gall 
bag  and  the  intestine  joining  the  gizzard  are  not  broken.  Open  the 
gizzard,  remove  the  contents  and  detach  the  liver  from  the  gall  bladder. 
The  liver,  gizzard  and  heart,  if  used  in  the  gravy,  will  need  to  be  boiled 
an  hour  and  one-half,  and  chopped  as  fine  as  possible.  Wash  the  turkey 
and  wipe  thoroughly  dry,  inside  and  out;  then  fill  the  inside  with  stuffing, 
and  either  sew  the  skin  of  the  neck  over  the  back  or  fasten  it  with  a  small 
skewer.  Sew  up  the  opening  at  the  vent,  then  run  a  long  skewer  into  the 
pinion  and  thigh  through  the  body,  passing  it  through  the  opposite  pinion 
and  thigh.  Put  a  skewer  in  the  small  part  of  the  leg,  close  on  the  out- 
side and  push  it  through.  Pass  a  string  over  the  points  of  the  skewers 
and  tie  it  securely  at  the  back. 

Dredge  well  with  flour,  and  cover  the  breast  with  nicely-buttered 
white  paper,  place  on  a  grating  in  the  dripping-pan  and  put  in  the  oven  to 
roast.  Baste  every  fifteen  minutes — a  few  times  with  butter  and  water, 
and  then  with  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan  Do  not  have  too  hot  an 
oven.     A  turkey  weighing  ten  pounds  will  require  three  hours  to  bake. 

Mrs.  a.  C.  Brown. 


106  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

BOILED   TURKEY   WITH    OYSTER   SAUCE. 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  for  roasting,  fill  with  a  dressing  of 
oysters.  Tie  legs  and  wings  close  to  the  body,  place  it  in  boiling  water 
that  has  been  well  salted,  with  the  breast  down.  Skim  it  often,  and  boil 
two  hours,  but  not  long  enough  to  have  the  skin  break.  Serve  with  celery 
or  oyster  sauce.  Have  a  nice  piece  of  salt  pork,  or  ham,  boiled,  and  serve 
a  thin  piece  to  each  plate. 

Some  save  the  liquor  in  which  the  turkey  has  been  boiled  and  use  it 
for  soup,  by  adding  seasonings.  Mrs.  Marietta  Hollister. 

ROASTED  TURKEY   WITH   SAUSAGES. 

(German  Style.) 

Stuff  the  turkey  with  rich  dressing,  when  done  remove  to  platter,  sur- 
round with  small,  fried  sausages  and  chestnuts  cooked  in  broth.  Put 
a  handful  of  water  cress  at  each  end  of  the  platter,  and  serve  with  a  well- 
thickened  giblet  sauce.  Matie  Higbie. 

BRAISED  TURKEY. 

Truss  and  stuff  as  for  roasting,  using  a  forcemeat  made  of  minced 
chicken,  mushrooms  and  sweetbreads,  in  addition  to  the  bread;  lard  the 
breast  with  fine  square  shreds  of  fat  salt  pork;  place  the  turkey  in  a  stew- 
pan,  breast  uppermost,  with  sliced  vegetables  and  sufficient  broth  to  cover. 
Set  it  on  top  of  the  stove,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  simmer  put  into  the 
oven  and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour  and  one-half.  Baste  occasionally  with 
the  gravy.     Garnish  the  turkey  with  stoned  olives  and  thicken  the  gravy. 

Mrs.  Jane  Hall. 
BONED  TURKEY. 

This  is  a  difficult  thing  to  attempt,  but  very  nice  when  accomplished. 
Clean  the  fowl,  as  usual.  Have  a  very  sharp-pointed  knife,  begin  at  end 
of  wing,  pass  the  knife  down  close  to  the  bone,  cut  all  the  flesh  from  the 
bone,  leaving  the  skin  whole.  Pass  the  knife  down  each  side  of  the  breast 
bone  and  up  the  legs,  keeping  close  to  the  bone.  Split  the  back  half  way 
up,  and  carefully  draw  out  the  bones.  Fill  the  places  whence  the  bones  are 
removed,  with  a  stuffing  restoring  the  fowl  to  its  natural  form,  and  sew  up 
all  the  incisions  made  in  the  skin.  Lay  a  few  strips  of  fat  bacon  on  the 
top,  basting  often  with  salt  and  water,  and  a  little  butter.  A  glass  of 
port  wine  added  to  the  gravy  is  liked  by  some. 

When  serving  carve  across  the  fowl  in  slices,  and  add  tomato  sauce. 

Mrs.  Fanny  Holmes. 


POULTRY  AND   GAME,  .  107 


PHEASANT. 


Prepare  as  you  would  any  game;  lard,  rub  with  salt,  wrap  in  grape- 
vine leaves  and  roast  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half  in  plenty  of 
butter  to  keep  them  juicy  and  tender.  The  pheasant  is  one  of  the  greatest 
dainties  of  the  table.  Malendy, 

JELLIED  GOOSE. 
(German  Style.) 

One  young  (not  too  fat)  goose,  two  well-cleaned  disjointed  calves' 
feet,  two  heaping  teaspoons  white  pepper-corns,  same  amount  of  allspice, 
several  large  onions,  four  bay-leaves,  one  carrot,  one  parsley  root,  part  of 
a  celery  root,  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  salt,  enough  white-wine  vinegar 
to  give  it  a  sour  taste,  almond  oil. 

Take  the  whole  goose,  head,  neck,  heart,  lungs,  gizzard  and  feet 
(scald  and  skin  the  feet),  together  with  the  calves'  feet,  put  in  a  granite 
pot,  cover  with  water  and  boil,  carefully  skimming  it  until  it  looks  clear, 
then  add  the  spices,  vegetables,  lemon  and  the  vinegar,  boil  until  the  meat 
is  well  done,  remove  the  fat  as  it  rises  and  strain  boiling  hot  through  a 
flannel  (white)  bag  to  cool.  (It  must  taste  piquant  and  spicy.)  After  the 
meat  has  cooled  separate  the  meat  from  the  breast  bone,  cut  it  in  narrow, 
bias  strips,  cut  the  legs  in  the  joints,  likewise  the  rest  of  the  goose,  add 
the  head,  neck,  feet,  etc.,  put  all  together  in  a  porcelain  dish,  well  oiled 
with  almond  oil  or  greased  with  lard.  Now  free  the  jelly  of  every  par- 
ticle of  fat,  remove  all  that  is  clear,  melt  it  and  pour  gradually  over  the 
meat.  Do  not  turn  it  out  until  ready  to  serve.  It  must  be  stiff  enough  to 
keep  the  shape  of  the  form,  but  not  hard  and  sticky. 

Mrs.  Etta  Hover. 
ROAST  GOOSE. 

Do  not  cook  a  goose  that  is  more  than  eight  months  old,  and  the  fat- 
ter it  is  the  more  juicy  the  meat.  The  dressing  should  be  made  of  three 
pints  of  bread-crumbs,  six  ounces  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  sage, 
black  pepper  and  salt,  and  an  onion  chopped  fine.  Do  not  stuff  very  full, 
but  stitch  very  closely  so  that  the  fat  will  not  get  in.  Place  in  a  baking 
pan  with  a  little  water,  and  baste  often  with  a  little  salt,  water  and  vine- 
gar. Turn  the  fowl  frequently,  so  that  it  may  be  evenly  browned.  Bake 
two  and  one-half  hours.  When  done,  take  it  from  the  pan,  drain  off  the 
fat  and  add  the  chopped  giblets  which  have  previously  been  boiled  ten- 
der, together  with'  the  water  in  which  they  were  done.  Thicken  with 
flour  and  butter  rubbed  together;  let  boil,  and  serve. 

Fraulein  Hirsch. 


108  ,  POULTRY  AND   GAME. 

BAKED   CHICKEN. 

Take  a  plump  fowl,  dress  and  lay  in  cold  salt  water  for  one-half  hour, 
then  put  in  pan,  stuff  and  sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  pepper;  lay  a  few 
slices  of  fat  pork  on  to  keep  moist.  Cover  and  bake  until  tender  with  a 
steady  fire.     Baste  often.     Turn  so  as  to  have  uniform  heat. 

Mrs.  a.  E.  Reagor. 

STEWED   CHICKEN  WITH   SALT  PORK. 

One  chicken  and  a  little  salt  pork.  Prepare  chicken,  the  same  as  for 
fried  chicken,  cut  in  pieces  and  put  on  the  fire  in  a  kettle  with  cold  water 
enough  to  cover  well,  add  the  salt  pork  and  boil  until  tender.  When  this 
is  done  have  ready  some  baking-powder  biscuits.  Break  open  the  bis- 
cuits, place  on  a  platter,  on  these  put  the  chicken;  thicken  the  gravy  with 
the  flour,  add  seasoning  and  cream;  pour  this  over  the  chicken  and  serve 
at  once.  Lola  Baker. 

TO   ROAST  OLD   FOWL. 

Neatly  dress  and  then  soak  in  cold  water  for  two  hours.  Boil  until 
tender,  then  put  into  roaster  and  stuff  with  a  nice  sage  dressing.  Take 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  mixed  with  butter  and  spread  over  chicken. 
Put  in  oven  and  bake  until  a  nice  brown.  Mrs.  Mella  Swift. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

Take  a  fat  hen,  dress  and  cut  into  pieces.  Stew  until  tender,  adding 
salt.  Make  a  crust  of  two  cups  of  sour  cream,  one-half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  cup  of  butter  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Put  chicken  into  a  deep 
pan  with  plenty  of  broth.  Sprinkle  in  a  handful  of  flour  and  add  pepper 
and  more  salt  if  necessary.  Wet  the  edge  of  pan  and  cover  the  top  with 
dough  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  cutting  a  slit  in  the  center  for 
steam  to  escape.     Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  thirty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Horner. 
CHICKEN  PIE— No.  2. 

Put  a  good  fat  young  hen  to  cook  in  cold  water.  When  partly  done, 
salt.  When  done,  remove  bones  and  lay  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish. 
Prepare  a  sauce  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  (melted),  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  little  pepper  and  six  cups  of  the  warm  chicken  broth 
and  one  cup  of  warm  milk  or  cream.  Pour  over  the  chicken.  Crust. — 
Two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of 


POULTRY  AND   GAME.  109 

salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  lard  and  one  cup  of  milk.  Mix  well. 
Lay  or  drop  over  the  chicken  not  (roll).  An  ^^^  may  be  added  to  the 
crust  if  desired.     Excellent.  Mrs.  Lottie  Alexander. 

POTTED  CHICKEN. 

To  every  pound  cold  roast  or  boiled  chicken  allow  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste,  one  teaspoonful  of  pounded 
mace,  one-half  of  a  small  nutmeg.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  pound  together 
till  reduced  to  a  small  paste.  Pack  closely  in  jelly  glasses,  and  cover 
with  clarified  butter.     A  few  slices  of  ham  added  is  an  improvement. 

Mrs.  Casson. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

»» 
Select  two  chickens  about  one  year  old,  clean,  cut  up  well,  and  stew 

in  just  enough  water  to  cover.     When  nearly  cooked,  season  with  salt  and 

pepper.     Stew  down  until  the  water  is  nearly  all  boiled  out,  and  the  meat 

drops  easily  from  the  bones.     Remove  the  bones  and  gristle;    chop  the 

meat  rather  coarsely,  then  put  back  into  the  stew  kettle  with  broth  (first 

skimming  off  all  fat),  and  let  it  heat  again.     Turn  it  into  an  oblong  bread 

pan,  drop  in  along  center  four  hard-boiled  eggs;  place  a  weight  on  the  top. 

This  will  turn  out  like  jelly  and  may  be  sliced.     The  success  depends  upon 

not  having  too  much  water;  and  see  to  it  that  the  chickens  are  not  too 

young.  G.  W.  P. 

CHICKEN  WITH   MUSHROOMS. 

Have  ready  one  pound  of  cold  roast  chicken  cut  into  dice-shape,  and 
one-half  of  a  pint  of  mushrooms,  cut  into  small  bits.  Cover  the  mush- 
rooms with  hot  water  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Skim  them  out  and  lay 
on  a  hot  dish.  Add  enough  milk  to  the  liquid  to  make  a  coffee-cupful. 
Thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  with  the  same  quantity 
of  butter.  Season  with  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt  and  half  as  much  white  pep- 
per. Add  the  chicken  and  mushrooms,  and  cook  three  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.     Serve  on  a  hot  platter.  Mrs.  Jennie  Merrill. 

CHICKEN. 

'  (Italian  Style.) 

Boil  a  whole  chicken  till  tender  in  lightly  salted  water.  While  cook- 
ing dip  out  into  a  granite  kettle  a  pint  of  the  broth  and  put  with  it 
one  sliced  onion,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  one-half 
of  a  cup  of  macaroni  broken  into  tiny  pieces.  Cook  till  water  has 
nearly  boiled  away,  then  add  one  cup  of  milk  and  cook  slowly  till  the 


110  POULTRY  AND   GAME. 

macaroni  has  absorbed  the  milk.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  it.  Boil 
the  chicken  broth  till  reduced  to  one  pint;  thicken  slightly.  Pour  the 
macaroni  over  the  chicken  and  the  thickened  sauce  over  the  whole;  on 
top  sprinkle  a  little  grated  cheese.  Mrs.  Del  Nero. 

PICKLED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  four  chickens  till  meat  falls  from  bones.  Put  meat  in  a  stone  jar 
and  pour  over  it  three  pints  of  good  cold  cider-vinegar  and  a  pint  and 
one-half  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Add  spices  and  let 
stand  two  days.  This  is  a  fine  dish  for  luncheon,  or  for  Sunday  evening 
tea.  Mary  Bonner. 

ESCALLOPED  CHICKEN. 

To  a  pint  of  boiling  hot  cream  add  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  mix  until 
smooth;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  scatter  a  few  bread-crumbs  in 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  seasoned  chicken  cut  as  for  salad,  then  a  layer  of 
cream  dressing;  put  two  layers  each,  then  bread-crumbs  and  small 
pieces  of  butter  on  top.  Mrs.  Minnie  Amphlett. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN. 

See  Chapter  on  "Chafing  Dishes." 

CHICKEN  OULASH. 

(Delicious.) 

This  is  a  Hungarian  dish.  I  first  tasted  of  it  in  Budapest  but  the  first 
mouthful  convinced  me  it  was  one  of  the  nicest  ways  of  serving  chicken  I 
ever  knew.  Boil  the  fowl  in  the  usual  way.  When  tender  take  out, 
remove  the  bones  and  put  bones  back  into  the  liquor;  cook  thirty  minutes 
and  remove  bones.  Cut  chicken  in  small  bits  or  cubes  (except  the  liver, 
heart  and  gizzard — reserve  these  for  other  uses).  Put  chicken  in  liquor, 
add  one-half  can  of  tomatoes  or  six  whole  ones,  six  onions,  salt,  pepper, 
speck  of  sugar,  and  butter,  and  stew  until  done.  Have  ready  one  dozen 
slices  of  buttered  toast.     Pour  over  toast  in  soup  tureen.     Serve  hot. 

Irene  S. 
CHICKEN    FRIED. 

(New  England  Style.) 

A  chicken  for  frying  should  be  very  young,  but  if  there  are  doubts  as 
to  its  age,  before  cutting  it  up  parboil  it  for  ten  minutes  in  water  that  has 
been  slightly  salted.  Then  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  the 
pieces  and  roll  them  in  flour.  Fry  them  in  plenty  of  butter  till  done.  It 
takes  about  twenty  minutes  to  fry  them.     Put  the  chicken  on  a  platter, 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  Ill 

make  a  gravy  by  turning  off  some  of  the  fat  and  adding  a  cup  of  milk  that 
has  been  thickened  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Pour  this  gravy  over  it. 
Or  the  gravy  can  be  omitted  and  the  platter  can  be  garnished  with  crisp 
lettuce  leaves.  Mrs.  Fanny  Oakley. 

STEWED   CHICKEN. 

Melt  in  a  stew-pan  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rather  salt  butter,  and  thicken 
by  adding  one  of  flour.  Stir  it  well,  to  make  it  smooth,  till  it  assumes  a 
light  yellow  color.  Put  in  a  plump  young  chicken,  cover  it  close,  and  let 
it  simmer  half  an  hour,  turning  it  once.  Then  add  a  tumbler  of  rich  beef 
jelly  and  one  of  sherry,  and  fill  up  the  pan  with  mushrooms.  Again  close 
it  and  let  it  simmer  another  half  hour,  when  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Salt  and 
pepper  are  the  only  spices  needed.  J.  A.  Goldberg. 

CHICKEN  PATTIES. 

Mince  fine  cold  chicken  that  has  been  roasted  or  boiled.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  minced  parsley  and  onion.  Moisten  with  chicken 
gravy  or  cream;  fill  scalloped  shells  with  the  mixture.  First,  line  the 
shells  with  pastry.  Sprinkle  grated  cracker  over  the  top  of  each  pattie. 
Put  a  bit  of  butter  on  each;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  till  brown. 

Amy  Wilcox. 
BROILED   CHICKEN  ON  TOAST. 

The  finest  way  to  prepare  real  young  chicken  is  to  dress  and  split 
them  down  the  back.  Remove  the  entrails,  wash  and  wipe.  Lay  on 
granite  pan  in  hot  oven  till  thoroughly  heated  through,  then  put  on  broiler 
and  place  over  live  coals.  Let  thoroughly  cook,  turning  often  so  as  not 
burn.  When  done  put  in  pan  again,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter 
and  put  in  oven  three  minutes.  Put  small  slices  of  buttered  toast  on  plat- 
ter, put  chicken  on  toast,  add  one-half  cup  of  cream  to  pan,  thicken  a 
trifle,  pour  over  chicken  and  serve.  Mrs.  L.  M. 

CHICKEN   CROQUETTES. 

Take  any  kind  of  cold  fowl,  cut  up  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 

butter,  a  little  onion  if  desired  and  stir  in  two  fresh  eggs.     Make  in  cakes, 

dip  in  beaten  ^%^,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  or  lard 

and  butter  mixed,  or  better,  still,  in  Ko-nut.     The  latter  is  a  vegetable  oil 

perfectly  healthy  and  fries  a  golden  brown  without  easily  burning. 

CEP 
CHICKEN  SALAD. 

See  Chapter  on  "Salads  Made  of  Meat,  Fish  and  Shell- Fish,"  Part  I. 


112  POULTRY  AND   GAME. 

MARYLAND  FRIED  CHICKEN  WITH  CORN  DODGERS. 

Clean  and  wipe  a  chicken  and  drop  the  pieces  into  boihng  lard.  Fry 
until  well  browned  and  thoroughly  cooked.  As  the  pieces  are  cooked 
remove  to  a  hot  platter.  When  all  are  done,  pour  off  the  lard,  leaving  in 
the  pan  the  gravy  of  the  chicken.  Return  the  pan  to  the  fire  and  pour  in 
about  one  cup  or  more  of  cream.  Dredge  in  a  little  flour;  stir;  bring  it  to 
a  boil  and  let  boil  three  minutes.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  pour 
over  the  chicken.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  some  finely-chopped  parsley. 
Have  ready  firm,  cold  corn-meal  mush.  Cut  it  into  slices,  dip  them  lightly 
in  ^^^,  cover  with  flour,  and  fry  in  butter.  Garnish  the  edge  of  the  platter 
with  these  corn  dodgers,  and  serve.  Mrs.  C.  I.  Tibbitts. 

CHICKEN   STEW   WITH   BISCUIT. 

Boil  the  chicken  same  as  for  fricassee,  take  out  the  chicken  and  have 
ready  a  frying-pan  with  butter;  into  this  put  your  chicken  and  let  brown 
on  both  sides;  after  taking  the  chicken  up  on  platter  pour  into  your  fry- 
ing-pan the  gravy  left  in  the  kettle.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  thicken.  Have 
ready  some  cream  biscuits,  break  open  on  the  platter,  butter  each  half  and 
pour  over  your  gravy.  J.  T.  P. 

CURRIED  CHICKEN. 

Slice  an  onion  and  brown  in  a  little  butter,  adding  a  spoonful  of  curry- 
powder.  Let  remain  covered  a  few  minutes  to  cook.  Add  more  butter, 
and  put  in  the  cold  chicken  previously  cut  up  very  small.  Thicken  with 
a  little  flour.  F.  V.  Varley. 

REED   BIRDS. 

They  need  to  be  plucked  and  drawn  very  carefully,  when  they  can  be 
salted  and  flour  dredged  over  them.  They  need  a  quick  fire  and  about 
fifteen  minutes  roasting.  Raw  oysters  can  be  placed  in  each  one  before 
putting  it  in  the  oven.  Roll  the  oysters  in  bread-crumbs.  Rub  butter 
over  them  and  pepper.  D.  P.  Mann. 

SNOW   BIRDS. 

Clean  a  dozen  thoroughly.  Put  a  couple  of  oysters  in  each,  put  them 
in  a  yellow-ware  dish,  add  two  ounces  of  boiled  salt  pork  and  three  raw 
potatoes  cut  into  slices.  Add  a  pint  of-  oyster  juice,  an  ounce  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper.     Lay  a  crust  over  the  dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

C.  E.  P. 


POULTRY  AND   GAME.  113 

ROASTED   GUINEA    FOWL. 

(Delicious.) 

Unless  young  the  guinea  are  apt  to  be  tough,  but  even  an  old  guinea 
can  be  made  eatable  by  the  care  of  a  good  cook  and  they  are  always  high- 
flavored  and  savory.  Clean,  stuff  and  roast  like  duck  or  chicken  and 
send  to  the  table  with  currant  jelly.  Mrs.  Helen  Gay. 


ROAST   PARTRIDGES. 

A  simple  method  of  roasting  these  birds  is  to  pick  them,  draw  them, 
and  wash  carefully.  Then  truss  them,  binding  thin  slices  of  smoked  bacon 
around  them.  Roast  fifteen  minutes  in  a  pretty  hot  oven.  About  seven 
minutes  before  needed  for  the  table,  remove  the  bacon,  salt  the  partridges 
lightly,  and  brown  them  in  the  oven.  When  placed  on  the  table  a  brown 
gravy  must  accompany  them.  Mrs.  M.  Marline. 


ROAST   PARTRIDGES— No.  2. 

A  German  way  of  roasting  these  birds  is  to  truss  them  as  you  would 
a  chicken.  Place  a  vine-leaf  upon  the  breast  of  each,  over  this  lay  two 
or  three  thin  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  fasten  them  securely  with  strong 
twine.  Put  the  birds  into  a  stew-pan,  just  large  enough  to  hold  them,  with 
as  much  butter  as  will  keep  them  well  basted,  and  when  they  are  browned 
on  one  side  turn  them  to  the  other,  until  they  are  evenly  colored  all  over. 
When  done  pour  a  cup  of  thick  cream  over  and  sprinkle  bread-crumbs, 
browned  in  butter,  upon  them.  Mrs.  Freda  M. 


QUAILS  ON  TOAST. 

Take  five  quails,  but  don't  remove  the  legs,  for  you  would  lose  all  the 
taste  of  the  game.  Wipe  them  well;  string  them  tight,  so  as  to  raise  the 
breasts.  Put  a  little  butter  on  each,  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  inside  each 
the  quarter  of  a  lemon  without  the  peel.  Then  put  a  very  thin  slice  of 
pork,  about  three  inches  square,  round  each  quail,  with  two  or  three  cuts 
in  each  slice,  and  string  it  tight.  Let  cook  on  a  good  fire,  and  when  they 
are  nearly  well  done,  for  white  meat  game  must  be  well  done,  cut  the 
string;  dress  nicely  on  toast  and  serve  hot.  Pour  the  juice  on  the  quails 
after  having  taken  the  fat  off,  and  put  some  slices  of  lemon  around  the 
dish,  one  for  each  quail.  Mrs.  Hattie  Bullard. 


114  POULTRY  AND    GAME. 

QUAIL   STEW. 

Cut  two  quails  down  the  back,  lengthwise,  place  them  in  a  pan  with 

some  butter,  and  cook  them.    Have  ready  two  large  slices  of  toasted  or  fried 

bread,  and  lay  the  quails  upon  them.     Add  a  little  water  to  the  liquor, 

thicken  it  and  pour  it  over  the  birds,  squeezing  a  little  lemon  juice  over 

them.  Mrs.  Hattie  Forbes. 

ROAST   QUAIL. 

Draw  the  quails  and  truss  them,  fastening  a  piece  of  fat  pork  over  the 

breast  of  each.     Place  them  in  a  baking-pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 

butter  and  four  of  boiling  water.     Roast  them  about  fifteen  or  twenty 

minutes,  basting  them  often.     When  done  take  off  the  bacon,  and  let 

them  be  placed  on  a  platter,  garnished  with  water  cress.     Pour  a  rich 

brown  gravy  around  the  birds,  but  not  over  them. 

Mrs.  Marcia  Hunting. 
ROAST  QUAIL— No.  2. 

Rinse  well  and  steam  over  boiling  water  until  tender,  then  dredge  in 
flour  and  smother  in  butter.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  roast  in 
oven.  Thicken  the  gravy.  Serve  with  green-grape  jelly,  and  garnish 
with  parsley.  Miss  Caroline  Elliott. 

ROAST   PIGEONS. 

Clean  and  truss  two  young  pigeons,  mince  the  livers,  and  mix  with 
them  two  ounces  of  finely-grated  bread-crumbs,  two  ounces  of  fresh  but- 
ter, an  onion  finely  minced,  a  teaspoonful  of  shredded  parsley,  and  a  little 
salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Fill  the  birds  with  this  forcemeat, 
fasten  a  slice  of  fat  bacon  over  the  breast  of  each,  and  roast.  Make  a  sauce 
by  mixing  a  little  water  with  the  gravy  which  drops  from,  the  birds,  and 
boiling  it  with  a  little  thickening;  season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  chopped 

parsley.  Mrs.  Emma  Legg. 

MOCK   DUCK. 

Take  a  round  steak,  make  a  stuffing  as  if  for  chicken,  put  it  in  the 
steak,  roll  and  skewer  tightly.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  flour,  put  in  a  pan, 
put  bits  of  butter  on  it,  pour  water  over  it  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Charlotte  Baldwin. 

TO   ROAST   ANY   SMALL   BIRDS. 

Birds,  forcemeat  or  oysters,  bacon,  one  pint  of  rich  stock,  or  one  tea- 
spoonful  meat  extract  dissolved  in  hot  water,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  biscuit 
crust. 

Stuff  the  birds  with  any  forcemeat,  or  put  one  large  oyster  in   each 


POULTRY  AND   GAME.  115 

bird,  place  the  bacon  in  an  earthenware  dish,  upon  this  the  birds.  If  a 
forcemeat  is  used  add  the  stock;  if  oysters,  the  oyster  Hquor.  Add  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.  M.  V.  H. 

ROAST   HAUNCH   OF   VENISON. 

The  flavor  of  venison  is  improved  by  being  kept  as  long  as  possible 
and  yet  remaining  perfectly  sweet.  Choose  a  haunch  with  clear,  bright 
and  thick  fat.  Wash  it  in  warm  water  and  dry  well  with  a  cloth;  butter  a 
sheet  of  white  paper  and  put  over  the  fat;  lay  the  venison  in  a  deep  bak- 
ing dish  with  a  very  little  boiling  water,  and  cover  with  a  coarse  paste  of 
flour  and  water  one-half  inch  thick.  A  thickness  of  coarse  paper  should 
be  laid  over  the  paste.  Cook  in  a  moderately-hot  oven  for  four  hours  or 
less,  according  to  the  size  of  the  .haunch.  Twenty  minutes  before  it  is 
done,  quicken  the  fire,  remove  the  paste  and  paper,  dredge  the  joint  with 
flour,  and  baste  well  with  butter  until  it  is  nicely  frothed  and  of  a  fine 
delicate  brown  color.  Garnish  the  knuckle-bone  with  a  frill  of  white 
paper,  and  serve  with  a  gravy  made  from  its  own  dripping — from  which 
the  fat  has  been  removed — placed  in  a  tureen.  Currant  jelly  always  accom- 
panies venison.  Mrs.  Serena  Hall. 

VENISON   STEAK   BROILED. 

Take  the  leg  and  cut  slices  from  it  having  a  quick,  clear  fire.  Turn 
them  continually.  They  should  be  served  under-done.  Butter  both  sides 
of  the  steak;  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  the  venison,  garnish  with 
parsley  and  accompany  it  by  a  jelly  sauce. 

Mrs.  Dorcas  Cummings. 
ROAST   VENISON. 

Slit  the  venison  and  lard  it  with  pieces  of  pork  or  bacon.  Place  pieces 
of  pork  or  bacon  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  slice  very  fine,  vegetables  on 
the  pork,  then  place  your  meat  on  this.  Season,  brown  well  on  the  top 
of  the  stove,  then  turn  over  and  brown  on  the  other  side;  then  set  in  the 
oven  and  put  soup  stock  or  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  cover 
closely.  Serve  with  gravy.  The  vegetables  may  be  chopped  fine  and 
served  with  it,  or  not.  Be  careful  not  to  let  them  burn.  Baste  with  port 
wine.  O.  B.  M. 

GAME   PIE. 
(Fine.) 

Take  two  dozen  woodcock,  quail,  snipe,  or  other  small  birds.  Split 
each  one  in  half  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  containing  about  a  gallon 
of  cold  water,  although  beef  broth  or  soup  stock  would  be  preferable. 
When  the  boiling  point  has  been  reached,  carefully  skim  and  season  with 


116  POULTRY  AND   GAME. 

a  little  pepper  and  salt  with  mace,  ground  cloves  and  one  bay-leaf,  adding 
half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  cut  into  squares,  two  small  carrots  and  one  onion. 
Boil  until  tender,  being  careful  that  there  is  enough  broth  to  cover  the 
game.  Into  another  saucepan  put  four  ounces  of  butter  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  browned  flour,  mixing  well  and  stirring  into  it  a  part  of  the 
broth  or  gravy  so  as  to  make  a  thin  sauce.  Strain  off  what  broth  remains 
in  the  first  saucepan,  removing  therefrom  the  vegetables  and  spices  to  go 
with  the  sauce.  Slice  and  cut  into  dice-shape,  potatoes  equal  in  quantity 
to  the  meat,  and  put  in  a  deep  baking  dish;  put  on  the  top  crust  of  dough 
and  bake  in  an  oven  that  is  not  too  hot.  Mrs.  Halliday. 

BAKED   RABBITS   WITH    RICE. 

Cut  a  plump  young  rabbit  into  neat  joints,  and  pepper  highly.  Dis- 
solve four  ounces  of  bacon  fat  or  good  dripping  in  a  saucepan,  put  in  the 
rabbit,  and  let  it  steam  over  a  gentle  fire  until  lightly  browned  and  half 
dressed.  Take  it  up,  drain,  and  put  aside.  Wash  half  a  pound  of  rice, 
and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  of  nicely-flavored  stock  and  half  a 
blade  of  mace.  Let  it  simmer  until  it  is  tender  and  has  absorbed  the  liquor, 
then  let  it  cool,  and  stir  in  with  it  a  large  slice  of  fresh  butter  and  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  lay  the  pieces  of  rabbit  into  it,  pour 
over  them  a  large  spoonful  of  chutnee,  and  then  spread  the  rice  on  the 
top.  Lay  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  upon  the  rice,  and  bake  the  prepa- 
ration in  a  brisk  oven.  Mrs.  J.  Gay. 

HOW  TO   DRESS   BELGIAN   HARE. 

Take  the  hare  by  the  hind  feet,  letting  the  head  hang  downward; 
strike  a  smart  blow  on  the  back  of  the  head;  cut  the  throat  at  once,  let- 
ting out  all  the  blood.  Hang  up.  Run  the  knife  around  the  first  joint  of 
the  hind  legs,  cutting  the  skin,  and  pass  the  blade  inside  the  thigh  to  the 
tail.  With  the  hand  separate  the  skin  from  the  flesh,  drawing  the  skin 
downward  toward  the  head.  Cut  the  fore  legs  off  at  the  first  joint  and 
pull  up  the  skin.  Use  the  knife  carefully  in  skinning  the  head,  severing 
it  at  the  nose  and  lip  and  drawing  it  off.  Slit  the  belly  lengthwise  and 
remove  intestines,  excepting  the  kidneys.  The  liver  and  heart  are  to  be 
saved;  also  the  head  if  you  wish  it,  first  removing  the  eyeballs.  Wash  the 
body  thoroughly  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  J.  S.  G. 

STEWED   HARE. 

(Spanish  Style.) 

Slice  one  large  onion,  one  chili  pepper,  and  four  medium-sized 
tomatoes  into  a  stew-pan  and  bring  to  a  boil.     Cut  the  hare  in  pieces  and 


POULTRY  AND   GAME.  117 

put  in  as  soon  as  boiling;  add  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  enough  hot  water 
to  cover.  When  nearly  done  thicken  with  flour  and  butter  the  size  of 
an  ^^^.  Anna  Dolittle. 

ROAST   BELGIAN    HARE. 

Prepare  a  stuffing  by  chopping  fine  one-quarter  pound  of  salt 
pork  and  a  small  piece  of  onion.  Pour  boiling  water  over  six  Bos- 
ton crackers,  then  chop  with  the  pork.  Season  with  sage,  salt  and  pep- 
per; add  boiling  water  to  moisten  and  stir  in  one  ^^^.  Wipe  the  hare 
dry,  fill  it  with  the  stuffing  and  lard  with  small  strips  of  salt  pork.  Allow 
twenty  minutes  for  each  pound.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  ^^^ 
in  a  cup,  fill  with  boiling  water  and  use  to  baste. 

Miss  Nettie  Martin. 
FRICASSEED   HARE. 

Lay  the  pieces  in  cold  water  a  little  while,  drain  well  and  place  in 
saucepan  with  pepper  and  thin  slices  of  salt  pork.  Cover  with  w^ater  and 
let  simmer  for  thirty  minutes.  Add  chopped  onion.  Make  a  smooth  flour 
paste,  stir  in  and  let  simmer  until  the  meat  is  tender,  then  add  half  a  cup 
of  cream.     If  too  thin  add  more  flour.     Boil  up  once  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Van  Ness. 
RABBIT  PIE. 

Cut  a  rabbit  into  eight  pieces,  soak  in  salted  water  one-half  hour  and 
stew  until  half  done  in  enough  w^ater  to  cover  it.  Lay  slices  of  pork  in 
the  bottom  of  a  pie-dish  and  upon  these  a  layer  of  the  rabbit.  Then  fol- 
low slices  of  hard-boiled  ^gg,  peppered  and  buttered.  Proceed  until  the 
dish  is  full,  the  top  layer  being  bacon.  Pour  in  the  water  in  which  the 
rabbit  was  stewed,  and  adding  a  little  flour,  cover  with  puff  paste,  cut  a 
slit  in  the  middle,  and  bake  one  hour,  laying  paper  over  the  top  should  it 
brown  too  fast.  Mrs.  M.  Mausley. 

ROAST  DUCK— TAME. 

Take  a  young  farm-yard  duck  fattened  at  liberty,  but  cleansed  by 
being  shut  up  two  or  three  days  and  fed  on  barley-meal  and  water.  Two 
small  young  ducks  make  a  better  dish  than  a  large,  handsome,  hard- 
fleshed  drake,  which,  as  a  rule,  is  best  fit  for  a  stew.  Pluck,  singe  and 
empty;  scald  the  feet,  skin  and  twist  round  on  the  back  of  the  bird;  head, 
neck,  and  pinions  must  be  cut  off,  the  latter  at  the  first  joint,  and  all 
skewered  firmly  to  give  the  breast  a  nice  plump  appearance.  For  stufling, 
take  one-half  pound  of  onions,  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  the  liver  of  duck  parboiled  and  minced 


118  POULTRY  AND   GAME. 

with  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne.  Cut  the  onions  very  fine,  throw  boiHng 
water  over  them,  and  cover  for  ten  minutes;  drain  through  a  gravy 
strainer,  and  add  the  bread-crumbs,  minced  Hver,  sage,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste;  mix,  and  put  it  inside  the  duck.  This  quantity  is  for  one 
duck;  more  onion  and  sage  may  be  added,  but  the  above  is  a  delicate 
compound  not  likely  to  disagree  with  the  stomach.  Let  the  duck  be  hung 
a  day  or  two,  according  to  the  weather,  to  make  the  flesh  tender.  Roast 
before  a  brisk  clear  fire,  baste  often,  and  dredge  with  flour  to  make  the 
bird  look  frothy.  Serve  with  a  good  brown  gravy  in  the  dish,  and  apple 
sauce  in  a  tureen.     It  takes  about  an  hour.  Mrs.  E.  Engel. 

DUCK  AND  GREEN  PEAS. 

Cut  the  rind  from  half  a  pound  of  lean  bacon.  Divide  it  into  pieces 
two  inches  square  and  fry  a  light  brown  with  butter.  Dredge  in  a  little 
flour,  and  stir  three  minutes.  Add  a  pint  of  broth,  an  onion  stuck  with 
two  cloves,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  salt  and  pepper.  The  duck  should  be 
previously  fried  or  roasted  for  ten  minutes  then  put  into  the  stew-pan  with 
the  gravy  and  stewed  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter  or  till  tender. 
Meanwhile  stew  a  quart  of  peas  with  butter.  Place  the  ducks  and  peas 
on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  them  the  gravy  strained  and  thickened,  and  serve 
hot.  Mrs.  A.  Ament. 

BRAISED   DUCK. 

Prepare  the  duck  as  if  for  roasting.  Line  a  small  pan  just  large 
enough  for  the  duck,  with  slices  of  bacon.  Strew  over  the  bottom  parsley, 
thyme,  and  lemon  peel.  Lay  in  the  duck,  add  a  carrot  cut  into  strips,  an 
onion  stuck  with  three  cloves,  season  with  pepper,  and  cover  with  stock 
broth  and  a  glass  of  white  wine.  Baste  frequently,  and  simmer  an  hour, 
or  till  done.  Fry  some  slices  of  turnip  in  butter  to  a  light  brown,  drain 
and  add  them  to  the  stew-pan,  after  removing  the  duck,  which  should  be 
kept  hot.  When  the  turnips  are  tender  remove  them  and  strain  the 
gravy,  thickening  with  a  little  flour.  Put  the  duck  on  a  dish,  throw  the 
hot  gravy  over,  and  garnish  with  the  turnips.  Fry  the  turnips  eight  or 
ten  minutes.  Mrs.  C.  Clements. 

SQUIRREL. 

Squirrel  is  cooked  similar  to  rabbits.  They  may  be  broiled  or  made 
into  a  stew.  There  are  many  varieties — black,  red,  gray  and  fox.  Gophers 
and  chipmunks  are  also  good  but  of  smaller  variety.  J.  M.  B. 

CAPON. 

Proceed  as  directed  for  chicken.     (See  pages  107,  108  and  109.) 


HOW   TO   SELECT  THEM. 


IN  PURCHASING  meat  one  should  know  how  to  select  the  best 
quality,  and  the  most  useful  pieces. 

Beef,  which  stands  at  the  head  of  the  list,  as  being  most  generally 
used  and  liked,  should  be  of  a  bright  clear  red,  and  the  fat  white.  It 
should  be  well  clothed  in  fat,  to  insure  its  being  tender,  and  juicy.  The 
finest  pieces  are  the  sirloin  and  the  ribs — the  latter  making  the  best  roast- 
ing piece  in  the  animal. 

In  cooking  steaks  remember  it  is  far  better  to  turn  over  three  or  four 
times  on  a  platter  containing  a  little  olive  oil,  than  it  is  to  hammer  them, 
to  make  them  tender.  The  object  is  not  to  force  out  the  juice,  but  to 
soften  the  fiber. 

In  selecting  Pork,  one  cannot  exercise  too  great  care  in  examining  it. 
Do  not  buy  any  that  is  clammy  or  has  kernels  in  the  fat.  Remember,  too, 
when  the  rind  is  hard  it  is  old. 

Veal  should  be  fine  in  grain,  of  a  delicate  pink  with  plenty  of  kidney 
fat.     It  should  never  be  eaten  under  two  months  old. 

MiUton  should  be  firm  and  juicy,  the  flesh  close-grained,  the  fat  hard 

and  white. 

TIME   REQUIRED   TO  ROAST  MEATS. 

Ovens  vary  in  heating  qualities,  some  baking  quicker  than  others,  but 
fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound  will  do  most  roasts.  The  oven  must  be  at 
the  proper  heat  when  the  meat  is  placed  therein,  so  that  the  surface  will 
crisp  quickly,  and  the  juices  be  retained  in  the  meat.  It  is  not  necessary 
to  wash  the  meat,  but  wipe  it  with  a  clean,  damp  cloth,  and  set  it  in  the 
oven  without  any  water.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  cook  add  a  very  little 
water,  and  baste  it  frequently.  An  onion  may  be  laid  on  top  of  the  roast, 
to  give  it  a  flavor,  but  should  be  removed  before  serving. 

119 


120  MEATS. 

HOW  TO   BOIL   FRESH   AND   SALT  riEAT. 

Fresh  meat  should  be  put  at  once  into  boiling  water,  and  when  half 
done,  the  salt  and  vegetables  should  be  added.  Salt  meats  must  be  put 
into  cold  water  in  order  to  extract  the  salt.  They  require  longer  boiling 
than  fresh  meats,  nearly  thirty  minutes  to  the  pound. 

TO   CLARIFY    DRIPPINGS. 

Drippings  accumulated  from  different  cooked  meats  (except  mutton, 
which  has  a  strong  flavor),  can  be  clarified  by  putting  all  into  a  basin  and 
slicing  into  it  a  raw  potato,  allowing  it  to  boil  long  enough  for  the  potato 
to  brown,  which  causes  all  impurities  to  disappear.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  and  when  cool  drain  into  basin  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Mabel  Stanley. 

FOR   PRESERVING    BEEF   FOR   WINTER   USE. 

See  department  on  "Pickles,  Vinegar  and  Brine." 

THAWING    FROZEN   flEAT,    ETC. 

If  meat,  poultry  or  fish  is  thawed  by  putting  it  into  warm  water  or 
placing  it  before  the  fire,  it  will  be  rendered  unfit  to  eat.  The  only  way 
to  thaw  these  things  is  by  immersing  them  in  cold  water.  If  meat  that 
has  been  frozen  is  to  be  boiled  put  it  on  in  cold  water.  If  to  be  roasted 
set  it  at  a  distance  from  the  fire.  It  is  best  to  thaw  the  night  before  cook- 
ing; lay  it  in  cold  water  early  in  the  evening  and  change  the  water  at  bed- 
time. Sherman  House,  Chicago. 

TO   KEEP  riEAT   FROM   FLIES. 

Put  in  thick  paper  or  muslin  bags;  if  the  latter,  the  meat  should  first 
be  covered  with  straw.  The  sacking  must  be  done  early  in  the  season 
before  the  fly  appears.     Muslin  lets  the  air  in  and  is  better  than  paper. 

Perfection  Market. 
TO  TRY   OUT   LARD. 

Skin  leaf  lard,  cut  in  small  pieces,  put  it  into  an  iron  kettle,  add  one  to 
two  cupfuls  of  water  to  prevent  sticking  and  burning.  Let  it  melt  slowly, 
being  careful  not  to  let  it  scorch;  stir  frequently  from  the  bottom  with  a 
wooden  flat  ladle  and  let  simmer  until  all  the  pieces  have  turned  a  golden 
brown,  then  throw  in  a  little  salt  to  settle  it.  Now  set  it  back  to  cool  and 
pour  into  jars. 

Note. — The  greatest  care  must  be  exercised  while  trying  out  lard  to 
see  to  it  that  none  runs  over  the  pot,  as  that  would  prove  disastrous. 


mBSSKCKaaan 


1.  Deviled  Crabs.     (New  Jersey  Recipe.) 

2.  Baked  White  Fish.     (Mackinac  Recipe.) 
3-     Florida  Lemons  with  Dressing. 

(Excellent  Appetizer.) 


FISH  AND  SHELL  FISH 

4.  Mrs.  Winter's  Fish  Sauce. 
(See  Page  41 S.) 

5.  Mrs.  Baldwin's  Delicious  Fish  Balls. 
(See  Page  S4. ) 


CHRISTMAS  OR  BRIDE  CAKE 
(Directions  for  Making,  see  Page  241.) 


GERANIUM  OR  BIRTHDAY  CAKE 

(Directions  for  Making,  see  Page  234.) 
(Directions  for  Decorating,  see  Page  232.) 


MEATS.  123 

Always  warm  the  jars  first,  and  put  In  a  little  lard  at  a  time,  to  prevent 
their  cracking.  When  cold  and  hard,  tie  up  with  clean,  heavy  paper,  and 
keep  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar.  Mrs.  J.  T.  Phillips. 

HOW   TO   BROIL   MEATS. 

Broiling  consists  of  placing  the  meat  over  clear,  red  coals,  free  from 
smoke.  Do  not  have  the  fire  too  low  or  the  gravy  will  drop  upon  the 
coals,  nor  too  hot,  else  the  meat  will  be  blackened,  and  made  hard. 

Never  stick  a  fork  into  the  lean  part  of  a  steak  or  chop  in  turning  it, 
but  put  it  in  the  outer  fat.  Have  the  dish  hot  on  which  the  meat  is  to  be 
placed,  and  season  it  after  taking  from  the  fire.  E.  R.  M. 

ROAST   BEEF. 

Have  the  butcher  remove  the  bones  of  a  rib-roast  and  roll  the  meat 
into  a  round  shape;  tie  securely  with  a  stout  string;  then,  before  sending 
it  to  the  table,  remove  the  string  and  insert  one  or  two  steel  skewers. 
Before  placing  the  meat  to  roast  season  with  salt;  then  place  it  upon  a 
grating  in  dripping-pan  and  put  it  in  a  very  hot  oven;  baste  frequently;  if 
the  meat  is  very  fat  you  need  no  water  in  your  pan;  if  not,  pour  a  small 
cup  of  boiling  water  into  the  pan  after  it  has  been  in  the  oven  fifteen  min- 
utes.    Make  a  brown  gravy.  Mrs.  Flora  Thomas. 

BROILED   STEAK. 

The  only  proper  way  to  cook  a  beefsteak  is  to  broil  it  on  a  light  wire 
gridiron  over  a  clear  fire.  When  ready  to  turn,  place  it  on  a  warm  plate 
with  a  little  butter,  turning  the  cooked  side  down  so  that  the  juices  may 
be  saved  in  the  plate,  and  not  lost,  as  would  be  the  case,  were  it  turned 
upon  the  gridiron;  return  it  to  the  gridiron  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  as 
soon  as  the  other  side  is  cooked  place  it  again  upon  the  plate,  which  be 
sure  to  have  always  warm;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  adding  a 
little  butter.  There  is  a  gridiron  in  the  market  (a  double  one),  which  per- 
mits the  turning  of  the  meat  over  the  fire.  It  is  so  constructed  that  the 
juices  are  held  in  the  pan.  Mrs.  E.  R.  Daniels. 

BEEFSTEAK   AND   0NI0N5. 

This  very  popular  dish  necessitates  the  use  of  a  frying-pan,  upon 
which  put  the  steak  with  a  little  suet,  and  add  sliced  onions  which  have 
previously  been  prepared  by  dropping  into  cold  water;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  cover  tightly  before  putting  upon  the  fire.  A  good  way 
is  to  cook  the  steak  and  onions  separate.  Then  smother  the  steak  on  the 
hot  platter  with  the  onions.  W.  P.  B. 


124  MEATS. 

ROAST   BEEF— No.  2. 

Select  a  loin  or  rib  piece — the  latter  is  the  best — and  pound  it  thor- 
oughly before  placing  in  the  pan;  pour  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  over  it 
and  sprinkle  a  little  salt;  have  the  oven  well  heated  and  baste  frequently 
with  the  drippings  after  the  juices  have  cooked  out.  Cook  about  ten  min- 
utes to  a  pound.  When  done  it  should  be  brown  outside  and  a  little  red 
within.  If  the  meat  has  an  excess  of  fat  cover  the  fatty  portion  with  a 
flour  and  water  paste,  which  can  be  removed  before  fully  done.  Turn  the 
gravy  upon  the  meat  after  skimming  off  the  fat;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Any  attempt  at  basting  before  the  juices  commence  running  from 
the  meat  will  have  the  effect  of  toughening  it.  Sadie  V. 

FILET  OF   BEEF   LARDED. 

This  is  the  tenderloin,  although  the  sirloin  is  sometimes  used.  Trim 
off  fat,  tough  skin,  etc.,  and  skewer  into  shape  (round).  Dredge  well  with 
salt,  pepper  and  flour  and  put  without  water  into  a  very  small  pan.  Place 
in  a  hot  oven  thirty  minutes;  in  lower  part  ten,  and  then  on  upper 
grate.  Serve  with  mushroom  sauce.  The  shape  of  the  fillet  is  such  that 
the  time  required  for  cooking  is  the  same  whether  it  weighs  two  or  six 
pounds.  Mrs.  F.  T.  Griggs. 

CORNED   BEEF. 

Should  be  cooked  in  plenty  of  cold  water  brought  slowly  to  a  boil;  if 
very  salt,  the  meat  should  be  soaked  over  night;  but  if  young  and  not  too 
strongly  brined  this  will  not  be  necessary.  It  should  be  cooked  sufficiently 
long  to  make  tender,  so  that  in  a  brisket  or  plate  piece  the  bones  may  be 
readily  removed.  Preserve  the  liquor  in  the  pot,  and  if  any  of  the  meat 
remains  after  the  first  meal,  return  it  and  let  it  stand  over  night  in  the 
liquor  so  that  it  may  absorb  it.  If  no  meat  remains  to  be  returned  to  the 
liquor,  the  latter  will  make  a  good  soup  for  next  day's  dinner  if  the  beef 
was  not  too  salt.  M.  J.  M. 

BOILED   BEEF   WITH   CABBAGE. 

(German  Style.) 

Take  one  head  of  cabbage,  and  after  removing  all  soiled  and  bruised 
leaves,  cut  in  sections  lengthwise,  making  about  eight  or  nine  pieces,  leav- 
ing the  piece  of  heart  attached  to  each  piece  to  hold  it  together.  Place  in 
the  kettle  on  top  of  beef  which  has  been  boiling  some  time;  let  all  boil 
together  for  one  hour.  Salt  to  taste  and  add  a  little  pepper,  if  liked. 
Lift  out  the  meat,  let  the  cabbage  boil  a  few  moments  longer  in  the  beef 
broth  and  send  it  to  the  table  in  a  vegetable  dish.   Mrs.  O.  T.  Learned. 


MEATS.  125 

BEEFSTEAK   AND  ONIONS— No.  2. 

Broil  or  fry  the  steak.  Cut  up  six  onions  in  slices  and  fry  them  brown 
in  drippings.  Place  the  steak  on  the  platter,  cover  it  with  the  onions,  and 
put  it  in  the  oven  till  thoroughly  hot,  and  it  is  then  ready  for  the  table. 

Mrs.  p.  B.  Murray. 

ROLLED   STEAK. 

Take  a  good  rump  steak,  flatten  and  lay  upon  It  a  seasoning  made  of 
bread-crumbs,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  mixed  with  butter  beaten  to  a  cream 
with  a  fork.  Roll  up  the  steak,  bind  it  evenly  with  fine  twine,  and  lay  it 
in  a  dish  with  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Cover  with  another  dish  and  bake 
forty  minutes,  basting  frequently.  Remove  the  cover  and  let  it  brown 
before  sending  to  table.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  browned  flour,  and  serve 
very  hot.  A  layer  of  oysters,  bearded,  instead  of  the  forcemeat  is  a 
pleasant  change.     The  twine  should  be  cut  off  before  sending  to  table. 

Mrs.  Priscilla  Long. 

POT  ROAST. 

Put  a  very  little  drippings  in  an  iron  kettle.  When  hot,  lay  the  beef 
in.  Add  an  onion  chopped  and  fried  till  brown  in  butter;  pour  in  water 
that  has  boiled,  to  half  the  height  of  the  meat.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  and 
cover  as  close  as  possible.  Thicken  the  gravy.  Simmer  from  two  to 
three  hours,  according  to  weight.  When  done,  take  up,  and  pour  the 
gravy  over  it,  and  send  to  the  table.  Mrs.  Robb. 

BEEF   LOAF. 

Take  two  pounds  of  beef  chopped  fine  and  add  eight  large  soda 
crackers  rolled.  Moisten  with  hot  water,  then  add  one-half  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  one  egg  and  a  pinch  of  sage.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Make  into  a  loaf  and  place  in  a  baking  pan  with 
two  strips  of  bacon  and  a  lump  of  butter;  cook  slowly  an  hour  and  one- 
half.  Mrs.  M.  McDuffie. 

ROAST  STEAK   AND   POTATOES. 

Butter  a  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  in  a  layer  of  chopped  steak,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  over  this  a  layer  of  raw  potatoes,  peeled  and 
sliced.  Dust  over  a  little  flour,  then  sprinkle  over  another  layer  of  steak, 
and  so  on  until  pan  is  full.  Fill  pan  with  hot  water,  cover  and  bake  three 
hours.     The  flour  used  thickens  the  water  and  makes  a  delicious  gravy. 

Mrs.  C.  F.  G. 


126  MEATS. 

CURRIED    STEAK. 

Slice  two  onions  and  one  apple,  and  fry  them  in  butter  to  a  light 
brown.  Cut  a  pound  of  steak  into  neat  squares,  mix  a  tablespoon  each  of 
curry-powder  and  flour,  and  salt  to  taste,  together  on  a  plate,  rub  each 
piece  of  meat  into  it,  and  fry  quickly.  Turn  all  into  a  saucepan  with  half 
a  pint  of  water  or  gravy,  which  should  be  hot,  and  siiiimer  gently  for 
an  hoill";  add  lemon  juice,  and  serve  in  a  meat  dish,  with  a  border  of 
boiled  rice  piled  round.  Mrs.  Charlotte  Rice. 

SPICED   BEEF. 

Boil  a  shank  of  beef  in  as  little  water  as  will  merely  cover  it.     Cook 

till  meat  falls  from  the  bone.     Chop  very  fine,  spice  with  ground  cloves, 

pepper,  salt  and  summer  savory.     Add  sufficient  of  the  liquor  in  which  it 

was  boiled  to  moisten  well.     Press  into  molds,  and  when  cold  slice. 

LiBBiE  Thompson. 
CREAHED   DRIED   BEEF. 

(Fit  for  a  Prince.) 

Pick  in  small  pieces  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  thinly-cut  rather  moist 
dried  beef  and  brown  in  a  little  butter.  When  brown  pour  in  it  a  coffee- 
cup  of  milk  and  cream.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  slightly  thicken  with  a 
little  butter  and  flour  creamed  together.  When  it  boils,  pour  it  over  a 
platter  of  golden  brown  toast  and  serve  it  at  once.  Mrs.  M. 

BEEF   PIE   WITH   POTATO   CRUST. 

When  you  have  used  the  best  of  a  cold  roast  of  beef  take  the  small 
pieces  or  as  much  as  will  half  fill  a  granite  baking  pan;  also  any  gravy 
that  you  have  saved,  a  lump  of  butter,  a  bit  of  sliced  onion,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  enough  water  to  make  plenty  of  gravy;  put  over  a  fire,  thicken  by 
dredging  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  cover  it  up  where  it  may  stew  gently. 
Now  boil  a  sufficient  quantity  of  potatoes  to  fill  up  your  baking  dish,  mash 
smooth,  and  beat  light  with  milk  and  butter  and  place  in  a  thick  layer 
on  top  of  the  meat.  Brush  it  over  with  ^^^,  place  the  dish  in  an  oven, 
and  let  remain  long  enough  to  become  brown.  There  should  be  a  goodly 
quantity  of  gravy  left  with  the  beef,  that  the  dish  be  not  dry  and  tasteless. 

LiDA  B.  M. 
LIVER   AND   BACON. 

Calf's  liver  is  the  best;  slice  it  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  pour 
hot  water  over  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes  to  clear  it  from  blood;  then 
dry  in  a  napkin.  Take  one-half  a  pound  of  thin  sliced  bacon,  or  as  much 
as  you  require,  and  fry  to  a  nice  crisp;    lay  on  platter  and  keep  hot;  then 


MEATS.  127 

fry  the  liver  to  a  nice  brown  in  the  same  pan,  having  first  seasoned  it  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  dredged  in  flour.  Serve  with  a  slice  of  bacon  on  the 
top  of  each  slice  of  liver.  Ann  Hewitt. 

FRIED   BEEF   LIVER. 

Cut  in  thin  slices;  pour  over  it  ^^^z'/zV^^"  water;  roll  in  flour;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.     Fry  till  done.  R.  Van  Ness. 

SMOTHERED   BEEFSTEAK. 

Take  one  large  thin  round  steak.  Prepare  a  dressing  of  a  cupful  of 
bread-crumbs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash,  of  pepper,  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  a  little  sage,  a  speck  of  chopped  onion  and  enough  milk  to 
moisten.  Spread  over  the  meat,  roll  it  up  carefully,  and  tie  the  ends  with 
a  string.  Fry  a  few  thin  slices  of  bacon  in  a  saucepan  and  into  the  fat  place 
this  roll  of  beef.  Brown  on  all  sides,  then  add  one-half  a  pint  of  water, 
and  stew  until  tender.  When  cooked  sufficiently,  take  out  the  meat, 
thicken  the  gravy  and  pour  over  it.     Carve  crosswise.  Lulu  Fowle. 

IRISH    STEW— BEEF  OR  HUTTON. 

Take  two  pounds  round  steak  or  mutton  chops,  six  potatoes,  two  tur- 
nips, four  small  onions,  nearly  a  quart  of  water.  Place  meat  in  stew-pan, 
add  vegetables,  pour  in  one  and  one-half  pints  of  cold  water;  cover  closely, 
let  stew  gently  till  vegetables  are  ready  to  mash  and  the  greater  part  of 
the  gravy  is  absorbed;  serve  hot.  Mary. 

BOILED  BEEF  TONGUE. 

Clean  three  fresh  tongues  and  place  in  a  kettle  with  just  enough  water 
to  cover  and  one  cup  of  salt;  add  more  water  as  it  evaporates,  so  as  to 
keep  the  tongues  covered  until  done— when  they  can  be  easily  pierced 
with  a  fork;  take  out  and  if  to  be  served  at  once  remove  the  skin.  If 
wanted  for  future  use,  do  not  p'eel  until  needed.  If  salt  tongues  are  used, 
soak  over  night  and  omit  the  salt  when  boiling.  Mrs.  A.  R. 

BEEF'S   HEART   STUFFED. 

After  washing  the  heart  thoroughly  cut  it  into  dice  one-half  an  inch 
long;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  water  enough  to  cover.  Remove  scum. 
When  nearly  done  add  a  sliced  onion,  a  stalk  of  celery  chopped  fine,  pep- 
per and  salt  and  a  piece  of  butter.  Stew  until  the  meat  is  very  tender. 
Stir  up  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  a  small  quantity  of  water  and  thicken 
the  whole.     Boil  up  and  serve.  Miss  Holland. 


128  MEATS. 

BEEF    LOAF— No.  2. 

Two  pounds  chopped  round  steak,  one  slice  chopped  salt  pork,  one 
teacup  browned  bread-crumbs,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  one  ^%^,  piece 
of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt  well  and  season  with  onion,  mace,  spice,  etc., 
to  suit  individual  taste.  Bake  about  one  hour  in  baking  pan.  A  nutritious 
and  economical  dish.     Will  serve  eight  person.     Eat  either  hot  or  cold. 

Esther  Haight. 
TENDERLOINS   STUFFED   WITH   OYSTERS. 

Take  two  large  tenderloins,  split  them,  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Make  a  dressing  of  pint  of, oysters,  teacup  of  cracker  crumbs;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  celery-salt;  spread  one  tenderloin  with  dressing  putting 
the  other  one-half  of  tenderloin  on  top,  then  spread  the  top  thick  with 
dressing;  tie  together  with  string,  bake  as  you  would  a  chicken,  baste 
often;  very  fine.  Belle  Foster. 

TENDERLOIN   WITH    flUSHROOMS. 

Roast  the  tenderloin  in  the  usual  way.  When  taken  from  the  oven 
lay  on  platter,  slice  thin  but  lay  all  together  as  though  it  had  not  been 
sliced  and  pour  over  a  mushroom  cream  sauce.     Serve  at  once. 

Ione  Lester. 
BEEF   PATTIES. 

Chop  fine  some  cold  beef,  beat  two  eggs  and  mix  with  the  meat,  add- 
ing a  little  milk,  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper.     Make  into  rolls  and  fry. 

Catharine. 
BEEF   PATTIES— No.  2. 

The  remains  of  a  roast  of  beef,  minced  fine  and  seasoned,  can  be 
baked  in  a  rich  puff  paste  in  patty  pans.  Nice  for  a  side  dish.  It  takes 
about  one-half  an  hour  to  bake  them.  Caroline  Royce. 

MEAT   CROQUETTES. 

Mince  cold  cooked  beef  or  mutton  fine,  with  a  large  onion,  pepper 

and  salt.     Add  gravy  to  moisten.     Put  into  shells  or  small  cups,  making 

them  three  parts  full  and  fill  them  with  potatoes  mashed  with  a  little 

cream;  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each,  and  brown  them  lightly 

in  the  oven.  Mary  J.  Liscomb. 

FRIED    BRAIN. 

One  nice  calf's  brain,  beaten  ^^g,  sifted  cracker  crumbs,  butter, 
parsley.  Soak  the  brain  in  cold  water,  then  scald. for  just  one  second,  dij) 
it  in  ^^^  and  crumbs,  and  fry  a  light  brown  on  both  sides  in  butter.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  serve  hot.  Julia. 


MEATS.  129 

HAHBURQ   STEAK. 

The  round  of  beef  is  usually  taken  for  this  purpose.  Grind  or  chop 
a  pound  very  fine,  removing  all  the  fiber  or  fat.  Add  one-half  a  tea- 
spoon of  onion  juice,  the  same  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of  pepper, 
a  little  nutmeg  and  one  ^gg.  Make  into  small  balls,  and  press  them  flat. 
Fry  them  in  butter.  Make  a  brown  gravy  of  the  butter  used  in  frying. 
Let  it  brown,  then  add  a  little  soup  stock.     Pour  a  little  on  each  cake. 

Mrs.  p.  Greene. 
BEEF   LIVER— No.  2. 

Cut  the  liver  in  slices  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick;  soak  in  cold  water 
one-quarter  of  an  hour;  have  ready  butter  in  the  spider  and  when  hot, 
put  in  the  liver;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  an  onion  chopped  fine;  dust 
a  little  flour  over  the  top;  cover  tight  to  keep  steam  in  as  much  as  pos- 
sible; add  a  little  water  while  cooking,  to  keep  from  getting  dry  (do  not 
let  it  burn);  when  brown  turn  on  the  other  side;  put  on  a  little  more  salt, 
pepper  and  flour;  when  done  take  the  liver  out  on  a  platter;  put  in  about 
a  teacup  of  sweet  milk;  if  not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  more  flour,  wet 
with  milk,  until  it  is  about  the  thickness  of  beef  gravy;  pour  over  the  liver 
and  serve.     This  is  the  Swedish  way  of  cooking  it. 

Dennie  Safford. 
BAKED   CALF'S    LIVER. 

Take  a  calf's  liver,  vinegar,  one  onion,  three  or  four  sprigs  of  parsley 
and  thyme,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  strips  of  bacon  and  brown  gravy. 
Select  a  fine  liver,  and  lard  it;  put  it  into  vinegar  with  an  onion  cut  in 
slices,  parsley,  thyme  and  seasoning  in  the  above  proportion.  Let  it 
remain  in  this  pickle  twenty-four  hours,  then  roast,  basting  it  frequently 
with  the  vinegar,  etc.;  glaze  it,  serve  under  it  a  good  brown  gravy  and 
serve  it  hot.  Jane  Emmert. 

KIDNEY  5TEW. 

It  will  take  three  kidneys  which  must  be  cut  lengthwise  into  three 
pieces.  Wash  these  well  and  dry,  wiping  them  very  carefully.  Warm 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan;  put  in  the  kidneys  before 
this  is  really  hot,  with  very  little  mace,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  one 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion,  and  a  cupful  of  good  brown  gravy.  Simmer 
all  together,  closely  covered,  about  ten  minutes.  Add  the  juice  of  one- 
half  of  a  lemon  and  a  pinch  of  grated  lemon  peel;  take  up  the  kidneys 
and  lay  upon  a  hot  dish,  with  fried  or  toasted  bread  underneath.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  browned  flour,  boil  up  once,  pour  over  all,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Josephine  Knox. 


130  MEATS. 

DRIED   BEEF    CREAMED— No.  2. 

Shave  the  beef  thin,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  adding  one-half  of  a  teacup 
of  cold  water.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  if  the  beef  is  pretty  salt  pour  off 
the  water  and  add  milk  sufficient  for  a  meal,  a  piece  of  butter  and  some 
pepper.  Take  cream,  a  full  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  to  a  smooth  paste, 
and  add  gradually  to  the  beef,  stirring  till  it  thickens.  It  is  a  very  nice 
breakfast  dish.  Mrs.  Mary  Hilton. 

BEEFSTEAK   WITH   DRESSING. 

It  grows  tiresome  to  always  broil  or  fry  beefsteak,  so  a  pleasant 
change  is  to  take  a  nice  juicy  round  steak  and  make  a  dressing  of  grated 
bread,  as  if  for  a  fowl.  Cover  the  steak  with  this  dressing,  turn  over  the 
edges,  and  fasten  with  linen  thread.  Place  it  in  a  dripping-pan  in  which 
is  one-half  of  an  inch  of  water,  and  bake  it.  Turn  it  when  one  side  is  done 
and  brown  the  other.  Another  way,  which  improves  the  flavor,  is  to  lay 
the  steak  on  the  griddle  in  the  dripping-pan,  put  plenty  of  salt,  pepper 
and  butter  over  it — do  not  spare  the  butter — and  run  it  into  the  oven, 
turning  it  once,  when  one  side  is  done,  and  basting  the  other  side  with 
the  gravy.  Mary  Heaton. 

BREAKFAST   DISH   OF   COLD   STEAK. 

Put  a  spider  over  the  fire  and  into  it  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

When  hot  add  one  cupful  of  chopped  cold  steak  or  any  other  kind  of 

boiled  meat.    Sprinkle  over  it  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.    Stir  well.    Pour 

over  it  enough  water  to  make  a  gravy.     Add  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 

Serve  on  toast.  Sophie  Severson. 

HEAT   PIE. 

Take  some  mutton  chops,  either  from  the  loin  or  neck,  trim  them 

neatly  and  put  them,  with  chopped  parsley,  butter,  pepper  and  salt  in  a 

stew-pan  over  a  slow  fire.     Place  the  chops,  with  some  good  brown  gravy, 

into  the  baking  dish  and  add  slices  of  raw  ham.     Cover  with  the  lid,  but 

first  fill  in  with  mashed  potatoes  to  the  brim;   bake  two  hours  in  a  slow 

oven,  when  the  tin  cover  may  be  taken  off,  and  the  chops  will  be  found 

tender  and  succulent.  A.  Plaisted. 

KIDNEY  TORTILLA. 

Four  eggs,  two  kidneys,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
one  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  onion,  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  stock,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter. 

Cut  the  kidneys  in  rather  thin  slices  and  stew  them  with  the  parsley, 
onion,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  stock  until  they  are  tender. 


MEATS.  131 

Break  the  eggs  and  beat  them  with  the  milk  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt; 
warm  the  extra  butter  in  a  saute  pan  and  pour  in  the  eggs,  shaking  to 
prevent  burning;  when  browned  on  one  side,  place  the  tortilla  on  a  dish 
with  the  kidneys  and  seasoning  in  the  center.  Fold  over  the  tortilla  and 
serve.  Mrs.  Martha  Kellar. 

KIDNEYS   WITH    MUSHROOM   CATSUP. 

Cut  a  beef  kidney  into  very  thin  slices,  flour  them  and  fry  a  light 
brown.  When  done,  remove  from  the  pan,  pour  off  the  fat,  adding  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup.  Boil  the  gravy  up  once,  pour 
over  the  kidney  and  serve.  Mrs.  Dalliber. 

SPANISH   STEW    FOR   ODD   BITS   OF   MEAT. 

Cut  two  medium-sized  onions  into  small  pieces;  fry  tender  (not 
brown),  to  which  add  a  pint  of  cold  beef  or  lamb,  cut  small,  a  quart  of 
tomatoes  and  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste;  stew  until  the  tomatoes  are 
thick.     Dried  peppers  are  more  desirable  for  this  than  cayenne. 

Miss  Edith  M. 
ROAST  nUTTON. 

Get  a  leg  of  eight  pounds,  which  has  hung  at  least  a  week,  weather 
allowing.  During  hot  weather  this  joint  gets  quickly  tainted.  Rub  it 
lightly  with  salt,  and  put  it  at  once  before  a  brisk  sharp  fire.  Place  it 
close  to  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  then  place  it  in  the  oven  and  let  it  roast 
slowly  until  done.  Baste  continually  with  good  dripping  until  that  from 
the  joint  begins  to  flow.  When  within  twenty  minutes  of  being  done, 
dredge  it  with  flour,  and  baste  with  butter  or  dripping;  and  when  the 
froth  rises  serve  on  a  hot  dish.  Make  a  gravy,  throw  off  the  fat,  when 
any  gravy,  if  the  dripping  pan  has  been  floured,  will  adhere  to  it.  Add  a 
little  stock  and  a  little  boiling  water,  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  the  gravy 
round  the  meat,  not  over  it.  Anna  Windom. 

nUTTON   PIE. 

A  very  good  family  pie  is  made  with  the  remains  of  a  cold  leg,  loin, 
or  any  other  joint  of  mutton  from  which  nice  neat  slices  of  rather  lean 
meat  can  be  cut.  These  should  be  put  with  a  good  seasoning,  in  alter- 
nate layers  with  thinly-sliced  potatoes,  into  a  pie-dish,  commencing  at  the 
bottom  with  some  of  the  meat,  and  finishing  at  the  top  with  potatoes. 


132  MEATS. 

Parsley,  savory  herbs,  onion,  or  shallot,  with  a  little  mace,  white  pepper 
and  salt  may  be  used  at  discretion.  A  cupful  of  good  gravy  from  the 
meat  should  be  poured  into  the  pie  before  the  crust  is  put  on.  Suet  is 
generally  used  for  the  crust.  Fannie  Merklin. 

MUTTON    PATTIES. 

Mutton  patties  are  made  with  cooked  meat,  which  is  minced,  then 
hashed  in  good  gravy,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  catsup. 
The  mince  should  not  boil,  but  be  made  hot,  and  thickened.  Patty  pans, 
lined  with  half  puff  paste  and  filled  with  the  meat,  will  require  a  very 
short  time  to  bake.  Cover  with  the  paste,  and  put  them  into  a  quick  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Mrs.  Marian  Bonnell. 

BREADED   MUTTON. 

Sew  the  mutton  up  in  a  thin  cloth,  lay  it  in  a  saucepan,  nearly  cover 
it  with  cold  water,  and  stew  gently,  allowing  ten  minutes  to  each  pound. 
Take  it  out,  unwrap  and  lay  it  in  a  baking-dish,  brush  over  with  warm 
dripping,  dredge  with  flour,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  one-half  of  an  hour, 
basting  freely  with  its  own  broth.  A  few  minutes  before  taking  it  up 
strew  thickly  with  crumbs,  fine  and  dry,  dot  bits  of  butter  over  it,  and 
brown.     Serve  garnished  with  slices  of  beetroot. 

Mrs.  Alice  Waters. 

RAGOUT  OF  MUTTON. 

Remove  the  bones  from  the  mutton,  so  as  to  have  three  pounds  of 
solid  meat.  Cut  it  in  strips  three  inches  long  and  one  inch  wide.  Take 
two  lamb  sweetbreads,  one  cup  of  gravy,  made  from  the  bones,  two  eggs, 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  one  onion,  sliced  and  fried,  one  cup 
of  green  peas,  pepper  and  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley, 
browned  flour.  After  having  fried  the  onion  in  plenty  of  drippings  then 
fry  the  mutton  five  minutes.  Parboil  the  sweetbreads  and  throw  them 
into  cold  water  and  blanch.  Wipe  and  dry  them,  then  fry  them  in  fat. 
Lay  the  salt  pork,  cut  in  slices  in  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan,  upon  this 
place  the  mutton,  then  the  sweetbreads,  the  onion  and  peas  next,  then 
pepper,  salt  and  parsley.  Cover  with  the  gravy,  put  on  a  close  lid,  stew 
gently  for  an  hour.  Then  let  it  boil  up  once,  remove  the  mutton  and 
sweetbreads,  thicken  the  gravy  with  brown  flour,  put  in  two  beaten  eggs, 
stir  a  minute  over  the  fire,  pour  over  the  meat  and  serve. 

Theresa  Munn. 


MEATS,  1^3 

LAHB   STEW. 

Remove  all  the  fat  from  a  nice  leg  of  lamb,  cut  off  the  shank,  make 
deep  incisions  in  various  parts  of  the  inside  of  the  leg;  fill  them  with 
stuffing  made  of  crumbs  of  bread,  salt  pork,  sweet  marjoram  and  pepper; 
stuff  it  very  full.  Put  hardly  water  enough  in  the  pot  to  cover  the  leg. 
Throw  in  a  dozen  or  two  of  cloves,  one-half  of  an  onion  sliced  or  chopped 
very  fine,  and  a  little  salt.  One-half  of  a  teacup  of  catsup  or  a  few  toma- 
toes improve  it  very  much.  Let  it  simmer  steadily  three  hours.  When 
you  take  up  the  leg,  thicken  the  gravy  if  it  is  not  thick  enough.  Put  a 
few  spoonfuls  over  the  meat.  A.  P. 

BROILED   nUTTON  CHOPS. 

Select  one  dozen  chops  cut  from  the  loin;  trim,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  dip  in  melted  butter  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  nearly  ten  minutes, 
turning  frequently.  Lay  on  warm  platter  and  garnish  with  a  few  sprigs 
of  parsley.  Ivy  Smith. 

A  GENUINE   IRISH   STEW. 

Cut  two  pounds  of  chops  from  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  and 
pare  away  nearly  all  the  fat.  A  portion  of  the  breast  may  be  cut  into 
squares  and  used,  but  a  neck  of  mutton  is  the  best  joint  for  the  purpose. 
Take  as  many  potatoes  as  will  amount  after  peeling  to  twice  the  weight 
of  the  meat.  Slice  them  with  eight  large  onions  sliced.  Put  a  layer  of 
mixed  potatoes  and  onions  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan.  Place  the  meat 
on  this  and  season  it  plentifully  with  pepper,  and  lightly  with  salt.  Pack 
closely,  and  cover  the  meat  with  another  layer  of  potato  and  onion. 
Pour  in  as  much  water  or  stock  as  will  moisten  the  topmost  layer,  cover 
the  stew-pan  tightly,  and  let  its  contents  simmer  gently  for  three  hours. 
Be  careful  not  to  remove  the  lid,  as  this  will  let  out  the  flavor. 

Mrs.  N.  McGrath. 
SWEETBREAD  CROQUETTES. 

Wash  and  parboil  one  pair  of  sweetbreads,  then  throw  into  cold 
water;  remove  outside  skin  and  all  membrane;  then  with  silver  knife 
chop  in  small  pieces  and  measure.  There  should  be  one-half  of  a  pint  of 
chopped  meat.  Put  one  gill  of  cream  into  a  saucepan;  rub  together  one 
level  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour;  stir  into  the 
hot  cream  until  you  have  a  smooth  paste;  add  the  3'olk  of  one  ^^^  and 
the  sweetbreads;  mix  and  cook  one  minute,  take  from  the  fire  and,  if 
desired,   add    one   dozen  mushrooms  chopped  fine;    if  fresh,  they  must 


134  MEATS. 

be  cooked  before  chopping;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  salt-spoon- 
ful of  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  finely-chopped  parsley,  ten  drops  of 
onion  juice;  mix  well.  When  cool  form  into  croquettes;  roll  into  beaten 
eggs,  then  roll  in  bread-crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  R.  McAdams. 
VEAL  OYSTERS. 

Cut  veal  from  the  leg  or  tenderloin  into  pieces  the  size  of  an 
oyster.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  mace;  dip  in  ^^^,  then  into 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry.  They  both  look  and  taste  like  oysters.  To  be 
eaten  with  tomato  sauce.  L.  D.  T. 

BAKED]  VEAL  PIE. 

Use  the  neck  or  any  part  of  the  veal  which  you  prefer.  Cook  it  by 
boiling  an  hour,  then  place  the  meat  in  a  very  deep  dish,  and  when  you 
lay  on  the  upper  crust  wet  the  edge  of  the  under  crust  all  around  and 
flour  it;  then  lay  on  the  upper  crust  and  press  your  hand  upon  the  edge, 
so  that  the  flour  and  water  will  make  the  crusts  adhere  and  prevent  the 
gravy  from  escaping.  Prick  the  top  several  times  with  a  large  fork.  If 
you  have  pieces  of  crust  left,  cut  them  into  leaves  and  ornament  the  pie. 
Bake  one-half  hour.  M.  A.  M. 

VEAL,  CHICKEN  OR  RABBIT  BONDINETTES. 

To  every  pound  of  finely-minced  meat  add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of 
mashed  potatoes;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  moisten  with  a  gravy 
made  from  the  bones  of  the  cold  meat.  Press  the  minced  meat  into  well- 
buttered  cups  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  dish,  pour  a  little 
browned  gravy  round  and  stick  a  sprig  of  parsley  into  each  bondinette. 

Mrs.  Ella  Field. 

VEAL    LOAF. 

Four  pounds  of  veal,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork  chopped 
fine  together,  one  teacupful  of  cracker  crumbs,  powdered  fine,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  stock,  three  eggs,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  dried  bread- 
crumbs, one  scant  teaspoonful  of  thyme  and  marjoram,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  summer  savory,  three  generous  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter;  add  to  the  chopped  meat  the  cracker  crumbs,  two  eggs  well  beaten 
and  one  cup  of  the  stock;  mix  well  with  the  hands;  butter  a  flat  cake  tin, 
form  the  mixture  into  a  loaf,  place  in  the  tin;    beat  the  third  egg  well. 


MEATS.  135 

spread  it  on  the  loaf,  sprinkle  over  with  fine  bread-crumbs;  bake  in 
rather  hot  oven  three  hours,  basting  frequently  with  the  remaining  stock 
in  which  the  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  have  been  melted. 

Edith  Van  Vormer. 
VEAL   LOAF— No.  2. 

Have  the  butcher ^r^W (not  chop)  four  pounds  taken  from  a  leg  of  veal, 
and  one  pound  of  fat  salt  pork.  Roll  one-half  of  a  pound  of  soda  crackers 
fine  and  mix  all  together.  Use  little  salt  and  pepper  and  thyme — about 
one  teaspoonful.  Beat  two  eggs,  and  add  them.  Mix  thoroughly  with 
the  hands  and  shape  into  a  block,  using  a  square  pan  to  cook  it  in. 
Roast  one  hour  and  one-half,  basting  constantly.  To  be  sliced  and  eaten 
cold.  Mrs.  Maria  White. 

VEAL  CHEESE. 

Three  pounds  of  chopped  veal,  one  slice  of  salt  pork,  sixteen  small 
crackers,  three  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  water,  salt,  pepper  and  sage  to 
taste;  bake  three  hours.  D.  C.  M. 

VEAL   CUTLETS   WITH    VERMICELLI. 

(German  Style.) 

Remove  all  the  fat,  but  not  the  small  rib  of  the  cutlet,  season  and 
turn  in  ^^%  and  crumbs,  or  dip  in  melted  butter,  then  in  cheese 
mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  crumbs  (sifted);  let  this  absorb,  then 
dip  in  the  ^%%  and  again  in  the  cheese  mixture.  Stand  aside  for  two 
hours,  then  fry  in  plenty  of  butter  the  same  as  doughnuts.  In  the  mean- 
time boil  some  vermicelli  in  salt  water  until  well  done,  then  drain  and  mix 
with  tomato  sauce,  arrange  the  vermicelli  in  the  center  of  a  chop- 
platter  and  place  the  cutlets  around  them.     Serve  hot.  N.  H. 

ROAST   LOIN    OF   VEAL. 

Leave  in  the  kidney,  around  which  put  considerable  salt.  Make  a 
dressing  the  same  as  for  fowls;  unroll  the  loin,  put  the  stuffing  well 
around  the  kidney,  fold  and  secure  with  several  coils  of  white  cotton 
twine  wound  around  in  all  directions;  place  in  a  dripping-pan  with  the 
thick  side  down,  and  put  in  a  rather  hot  oven,  letting  it  cool  down  to 
moderate;  in  one-half  hour  add  a  little  hot  water  to  the  pan,  and  baste 
often;  half  an  hour  after  turn  over  the  roast  and  when  done  dredge 
lightly  with  flour  and  baste  with  melted  butter.  Before  serving,  care- 
fully remove  the  twine.  A  roast  of  four  to  five  pounds  will  bake  in 
two  hours.     For  a  gravy,  skim  off  some  of  the  fat  if  there  is  too  much  in' 


136  MEATS. 

the  drippings;  dredge  in  flour,  stir  until  brown,  add  hot  water  if  neces- 
sary; boil  a  few  minutes,  stir  in  sweet  herbs  as  fancied  and  put  in  a  gravy 
boat.  Serve  with  green  peas  and  lemon  jelly.  Is  very  nice  sliced  cold  for 
lunch,  and  Worcestershire  or  Chili  sauce  forms  a  fine  relish.  S.  J. 

ENTREE  OF  VEAL. 

Take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  three  pounds  of  raw  veal, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  two  raw  eggs. 
Chop  fine  and  mix  all  together,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 
Mold  this  into  a  loaf,  then  roll  into  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pounded 
crackers  and  pour  over  it  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Place  in 
a  pan  and  bake  two  hours.     When  cold,  slice  and  use. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Weed. 

VEAL  WITH   OYSTERS. 

Take  two  pounds  of  tender  veal,  cut  into  thin  bits,  dredge  with  flour, 
and  fry  in  enough  hot  lard  to  prevent  sticking;  when  nearly  done  add 
one  and  one-half  pints  of  oysters,  thickened  with  a  little  flour;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  cook  until  both  are  done.  Serve  very  hot  in  a  cov- 
ered dish.  E.  W. 

MEAT  CROQUETTES. 

One  pound  of  raw  minced  beef,  one  ^gg,  one  onion  chopped  fine  with 
a  little  parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Form  into  cakes,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  fry  in  very  hot  Ko-nut  or  drippings.  H.  M. 

TO   COOK   CALF'5   HEAD, 

When  the  head  has  been  cleaned,  and  split  in  halves,  the  eyes 
and  snout  bone  taken  away,  lay  it  in  cold  water  to  soak,  for  two  hours. 
Take  out  the  brains,  and  wash  them  well  in  several  waters,  then  lay  them 
in  cold  water.  Put  the  head  together;  cover  it  with  cold  water  in  the 
kettle  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt;  boil  slowly  for  two  or  three  hours. 
When  it  has  boiled  a  little  more  than  an  hour,  take  some  of  the  liquor, 
about  a  quart,  and  put  into  a  stew-pan  for  the  gravy;  add  to  this  salt, 
pepper,  parsley  chopped  fine,  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  put  over 
the  fire  to  boil.  Beat  up  an  G.gg  lightly,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
then  remove  carefully  the  skin  from  the  brains,  and  beat  them  up  with  the 
egg  and  flour.  When  well  beaten,  thicken  the  gravy  with  it  and  stew  fif- 
teen minutes.  Mrs.  Lucia  Capper. 


MEATS.  137 

TO   KEEP  MEAT   HOT. 

Often  a  piece  of  meat  is  done,  and  yet  the  head  of  the  house  is  not 
there  to  partake  of  it.  A  nice  way  to  keep  it  hot  without  drying  it  is  to 
place  it  in  a  hot  dish  and  set  it  over  a  large  saucepan  of  hot  water  at  the 
side  of  the  fire.  Put  a  cover  over  the  pan,  and  again  cover  that  with  a 
cloth.  A  bain-marie  is  useful  in  every  kitchen.  It  is  an  open  vessel  or 
pan  with  a  loose  bottom  for  holding  hot  water.  It  will  keep  meats  hot, 
or  sauces  at  boiling  point  without  reduction  or  burning.  F.  T.  Boyd. 

ROAST   LOIN   OF   PORK. 

Pork  should  be  chosen  with  great  care.  From  the  gluttonous  habits 
of  the  animal  it  is  more  liable  to  disease  than  any  other  meat.  It  should 
be  partaken  of  plentifully  only  in  cold  weather.  Grainfed  pork  is 
the  best.  Score  the  skin  of  a  fresh  loin  of  pork  at  equal  distances 
about  one-quarter  of  an  inch  apart.  Brush  it  over  with  salad  oil, 
place  it  in  a  hot  oven  with  a  clear  fire,  but  watch  that  the  crackling 
does  not  burn  before  the  meat  is  well  cooked.  Baste  often,  and 
heat  the  dish  on  which  you  send  it  to  table.  Serve  with  brown  gravy  and 
apple-sauce.  If  liked,  a  little  sage  and  onion  dressing  may  be  made  and 
served  on  a  separate  dish.  It  requires  two  hours  and  one-quarter  to  cook 
a  five-pound  roast.  Mrs.  Jane  Hathaway. 

FOR  PRESERVING  PORK  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

See  Department  "Pickles,  Vinegars  and  Brines." 

FRIED   SALT   PORK. 

Take  thin  slices  of  pickled  pork,  fry  lightly.  Then  mix  a  batter  of 
^%^  and  flour  and  milk  and  immerse  the  pork  in  this  till  it  has  become 
completely  covered  and  fry  to  a  light  brown. 


'rs.  Huldah  Osgood. 


SALT   PORK. 

(Nearly  equal  to  fresh. ) 


Cut  as  many  slices  as  may  be  needed;  if  for  breakfast,  the  night 
previous,  and  soak  over  night  in  a  pint  of  milk  and  water,  about  one-half 
milk,  either  skimmsd  milk,  sour  milk  or  butter-milk;  rinse  till  the  water 
is  clear,  and  roll  in  corn-meal  and  fry.     It  is  quite  as  nice  as  fresh  pork. 

Farmer's  Wife. 


138  MEATS. 

ROAST   SPARE-RIB. 

Trim  the  ragged  ends  of  a  spare-rib  neatly,  crack  the  ribs  across  the 

middle,  rub  with  salt  and  sprinkle  with  pepper.     Fold  it  over,  stuff  with  a 

turkey  dressing,  sew  up  tightly,  place  in  dripping  pan  with  a  pint  of  water, 

baste  frequently,  turning  it  once  or  twice  so  as  to  bake  both  sides  a  rich 

brown.  Clara  Jones. 

SADDLE  OF   PORK,  ROASTED. 

Have  the  butcher  cut  a  saddle  of  pork  as  he  would  a  saddle  of  mut- 
ton. Strip  off  the  skin,  trim  the  joint  neatly,  and  cover  the  fat  with  but- 
tered paper.  Have  a  clear  fire  and  baste  liberally.  One-half  of  an  hour 
before  it  is  taken  up  remove  the  paper,  dredge  the  meat  lightly  with  flour, 
and  baste  until  it  is  brightly  browned.  Send  brown  gravy  and  apple- 
sauce or  tomato-sauce  to  the  table  with  it.  If  liked,  the  skin  can  be  left 
on,  and  it  will  then  require  to  be  scored  lengthwise,  the  same  way  in 
which  the  saddle  is  carved.     This  is  the  handsomest  joint  of  pork  that  can 

be  served.  M.  A.  R. 

HOW   TO  COOK   PIG'S  CHEEK. 

Let  a  pickled  pig's  cheek  boil  gently  until  tender.     Tie  one-half  of  a 

pint  of  split  peas  loosely  in  a  cloth,  put  them  in  boiling  water,  and  boil 

one  hour;    take  them  out,  pass  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  mix  with 

the  pulp  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  four  well-beaten 

eggs.     Stir  the  mixture  over  the  fire  until  the  eggs  begin  to  set,  then 

spread  it  upon  the  cheek,  brush   over  with  beaten  ^^^,  sprinkle  bread 

raspings  on  it,  put  it  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  and  serve.     It  will  take 

nearly  three  hours  to  boil  it.     The  bread  raspings  are  made  of  pieces  of 

stale  bread  dried  slowly  in  a  warm  oven  till  brown  and  hard,  and  then 

crushed  to  powder.     They  can  be  set  away  in  glass  jars  and  kept  for  use. 

Mrs.  J.  Howard. 
FRIED   PORK  CHOPS. 

The  flavor  of  pork  chops  is  enhanced  by  cutting  chops  thin.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  thoroughly  dry.  If  a  sausage  flavor  is  liked, 
sprinkle  over  them  a  little  powdered  sage,  pepper  and  salt.  A  little  milk 
gravy  can  be  made  and  poured  over  it  if  liked.  Mary  Laverty. 

PORK  TENDERLOINS. 

Tenderloins  should  be  sliced  crosswise  and  flattened,  then  fried  or 
broiled,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  If  desired,  when  done  remove  to 
platter  and  make  a  gravy  by  dredging  a  little  flour  info  the  hot  fat;  if  not 
enough  add  a  little  butter,  stir  until  browned,  and  add  a  little  milk  or 
cream,  stir  until  it  boils  and  pour  over  the  dish.  Julia  Dickerson. 


"A  delightful  supper,  a  good  night's  sleep  and  a  fine  morning  have  often  made  a  hero  of  the  same  man 
who,  by  indigestion,  a  restless  night  and  a  rainy  morning  would  have  proved  a  coward." 


1.  Lenten  Salad.     (Roman  Recipe. ) 

2.  Chicago  Cheese  Bars. 

3.  Bread  Sticks.     (Aunt  Mary's  Recipe.) 

6.     Pineapple  Cheese. 


4.  Mrs.  Reagor's  Roast  Capon. 

(See  Page  iiS.) 

5.  Wafers — Long  Branch  Recipe. 
(Excellent  with  Salad.) 


BON  BON  BOXES  AND  OTHER  DELIGHTS  FOR  WEE  MEN  AND  WOMEN 

(How  to  Make — See  Pages  27  and  28.) 
1-2-5.     Snapping  Mottoes.  6.     Favor— Musical  Instrument. 

3.  Drum  Favor.  7.     Favor— Bon  Bon  Box. 

4.  Favor— Sewing  Basket.  8.     Bonbonniere— Everlasting  Flowers. 

9.     Bon  Bon  Box— Crinkled  Paper. 


MEATS.  141 

HOW  TO  MAKE  COUNTRY  PORK  SAUSAGES. 

Six  pounds  of  lean  fresh  pork,  three  pounds  of  chine  fat,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper  and 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  pounded  and  sifted  sage.  Grind  with  a  sausage 
grinder  or  a  meat  chopper  the  lean  and  fat  pork  finely,  mix  the  seasoning 
in  with  the  hands,  taste  to  see  that  it  has  the  right  flavor,  then  make  into 
flat  balls  or  make  long,  narrow  bags  of  stout  muslin.  Fill  these  with  the 
meat  and  hang  in  a  cold  dark  room.     They  can  be  used  at  once. 

Marie  Buell. 
TO  FRY   CASED   SAUSAGES. 

Place  in  the  frying-pan,  keep  moving  them  about  and  turn  frequently 

to  prevent  bursting;    in   ten  or  twelve   minutes  they  will  be  sufficiently 

browned  and  cooked.     Sausages  are  also  nicely  cooked  by  putting  them 

in  a  baking  pan  and  browning  them  in  the  oven,  turning  them  once  or 

twice.  J.  A.  M. 

FRANKFORT   SAUSAGES— HOW  TO  COOK. 

These  are  real  appetizing  for  a  luncheon  or  a  Sunday  night  supper 
where  you  want  something  real  good  and  easy  to  get.  Drop  a  pound  or 
more  in  boiling  hot  water  and  let  simmer  two  minutes.  Serve  hot  with 
tomato  catsup  or  horse-radish.  Lida. 

FRIED  HAM  AND  EGGS. 

Cut  slices  of  ham  very  thin,  trim  off  the  rind,  put  into  a  hot  frying-pan 
cooking  until  crisp.  Place  on  a  hot  platter;  pour  off  some  of  the  grease, 
then  carefully  break  the  eggs  separately  in  a  saucer  so  that  no  bad  be 
cooked  and  slip  each  &gg  gently  into  the  frying-pan.  Do  not  turn  them 
while  frying,  but  gently  tilt  the  pan  so  that  the  hot  lard  will  be  over  them 
all.  Cook  about  three  minutes;  the  white  must  retain  its*  transparency  so 
that  the  yolk  can  be  seen  thought  it.  Lay  a  fried  Qgg  upon  each  slice  of 
the  ham,  and  serve  hot.  Mrs.  M.  F.  Thommessen. 

BOILED    HAM. 

Select  the  sweetest  and  best,  wipe  with  a  coarse  cloth,  then  soak  for 
an  hour  in  cold  water,  to  extract  some  of  the  salt.  Cover  with  cold  water, 
place  over  the  fire  and  let  it  come  to  a  moderate  boil,  keeping  it  steadily 
at  this  point.  In  cooking  allow  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat. 
If  the  ham  is  to  be  served  hot  remove  the  skin,  place  on  a  platter,  the  fat 
side  up,  and  stick  in  some  whole  cloves.  If  served  cold,  allow  it  to  remain 
in  the  kettle  until  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked  becomes  cold.  This 
makes  it  more  juicy.  H.  O.  C. 


142  MEATS. 

,  ROAST    PIG. 

Select  a  pig  about  six  weeks  old,  wash  it  thoroughly  inside  and 
outside;  wipe  dry  with  a  towel,  salt  inside  and  stuff  it  with  a  rich 
fowl  dressing  making  it  plump.  Sew  it  up,  place  it  in  a  kneeling 
posture  in  the  dripping  pan,  salt  and  pepper  the  outside.  Pour  a 
little  water  into  the  dripping  pan,  baste  with  butter  and  water  a  few  times 
as  the  pig  warms,  afterwards  with  gravy  from  the  dripping  pan.  Roast 
from  two  to  three  hours.  Make  the  gravy  by  skimming  off  most  of  the 
grease;  stir  in  the  pan  a  good  tablespoonful  of  flour,  turn  in  water  to  make 
it  the  right  consistency,  season  and  let  all  boil  up  once.  Strain,  and  turn 
into  a  gravy-dish.  Place  the  pig  upon  a  large  platter'surrounded  with 
parsley.  Send  to  the  table  hot.  In  carving  cut  off  head  first;  split  the 
back,  take  off  the  hams  and  shoulders  and  separate  the  ribs. 

M.  M. 
BOLOGNA  SAUSAGE. 

Take  off  the  outer  skin  of  the  sausage.  Slice  the  sausage  very  thin. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  a  platter  with  leaves  of  parsley  and  lay  the  sausage 
on  top,  each  slice  touching  the  other.  A  few  hard-boiled  eggs  can  be  cut 
into  rings  and  sliced  round,  then  laid  upon  the  sausage. 

Mrs.  Jane  Cummings. 

SAUSAGE  CROQUETTES. 

One  cup  of  highly-seasoned  sausage  meat,  one  cup  of  hot  riced  potato, 
two  hard-boiled  eggs  finely  chopped,  one-half  of  a  tablespoonful  of  finely- 
chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bind  together  with  one-half  of 
an  egg  slightly  beaten.  Mold  into  cork-shaped  croquettes,  roll  in  bread- 
crumbs and  dip  in  ^gg,  slightly  beaten,  to  which  has  been  added  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Roll  again  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  Ko- 
nut.     Observe  level  measurements.  C.  A.  C. 

SCRAHBLED  SAUSAGES. 

To  one  pound  of  sausage  use  five  eggs;  have  the  pan  hot  and  well- 
buttered;  break  the  sausage  into  this  in  small  bits;  keep  turning  until 
done,  but  not  brown;  over  this  turn  the  five  beaten  eggs;  scramble  with 
the  sausage  until  thick.     Serve  at  once.  Clara  Mount. 

HARYLAND   BAKED   HAM. 

Place  a  medium-sized  ham  in  a  pot  and  cover  with  sweet  cider.  Let 
it  simmer  gently  for  three  and  one-half  hours.  Skim  frequently  to 
remove  the  grease  as  it  rises.     When  tender  take  out  and  remove  the 


MEATS.  143 

rind;  outline  the  fat  on  top  into  diamonds  and  in  each  diamond  stick  a 
clove;  now  rub  over  the  top  of  the  ham  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  maple 
sirup,  place  in  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  for  forty-five  minutes.  Garnish 
and  send  to  the  table.  Mrs.  C.  I.  Tibbits. 

PICKLED   PIG'S   FEET. 

Take  three  pounds  of  pig's  shanks,  one  pound  of  veal  from  the 
shoulder.  See  that  the  butcher  has  cleaned  them  nicely.  It  is  a  safe 
precaution  to  scald  the  feet  again  and  scrape  them.  Then  put  water  over 
them,  whole  peppers,  salt,  bay-leaves  and  a  little  onion,  and  cook.  When 
done  remove  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  then 
strain  the  liquid  and  put  it  back  in  the  kettle  with  one-half  of  a  cup  of 
vinegar.  Put  the  meat  into  this  gravy  and  let  it  boil  up,  when  it  can  be 
poured  into  a  dish  to  cool.     Have  enough  gravy  to  cover  the  meat. 

Mrs.  B.  Ralston. 
COLD  HAM  OR  TONGUE. 

Slice  ham  in  thin  slices  and  arrange  upon  a  platter  with  a  bed  of  let- 
tuce leaves  under  it.  Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  and  place  on  the  ham.  Boiled 
tongue  can  be  used  in  the  same  way.  E.  H. 

TORTILLA  OF  HAM. 

One-half  of  a  pound  of  ham  is  to  be  cooked,  then  chopped  and  put 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  pan.  Beat  three  eggs  well  and 
season.  Pour  them  into  the  ham  and  stir  for  a  moment,  then  let  the 
tortilla  set,  being  careful  that  it  does  not  adhere  to  the  pan.  When  it  is 
a  little  brown,  turn  and  brown  the  other  side.  Mrs.  F.  T.  W. 

HEAD  CHEESE. 

Take  the  head,  ears  and  feet  of  a  pig  after  being  cleaned  thoroughly. 
Boil  them  till  tender  in  water  that  is  salted.  When  done  chop  very  fine 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage.     Put  into  molds  until  cold. 

Mrs.  J.  Howard. 
TRIPE  STEW. 

Many  people  reject  tripe;  and  we  do  not  wonder  when  they  can  only 
obtain  the  leathery  affair  known  as  pickled  tripe,  which  cooks  try  to  dis- 
guise by  frying  in  batter.  But  fresh  tripe,  which  has  never  seen  vinegar, 
is  quite  another  thing.  Cut  the  tripe  (the  honeycomb  is  the  most  tender 
part)  into  pieces  about  five  inches  long  by  four  wide.  Place  them  on  the 
stove  in  just  enough  hot  water  to  cover  them.  Cut  up  six  or  seven  onions 
in  fine  shavings,  adding  them  to  the  tripe.     Let  the  water  simmer  slowly 


144  MEATS. 

away.  Then  add  a  dip  made  of  good  milk  thickened  with  flour,  a  gener- 
ous piece  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  them  all  boil  up  two  or  three 
times  and  you  will  have  a  dish  delicate  and  tender  enough  for — I  was 
going  to  say  a  queen,  but  I'll  name  something  we  all  know — an  American 
lady.  Annie  R.  White. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING  SERVED  WITH  MEAT. 

One  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs  (beating  whites  and  yolks  separate),  two 

cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.     If  the  batter  grows  too  stiff,  use  less 

flour.     Mix  quickly.     When  the  roast  of  beef  is  one-half  done  pour  off 

the  fat  from  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  leaving  enough  to  keep  the  pudding 

from  sticking  to  the  bottom.     Pour  the  batter  into  the  pan  and  roast  the 

beef  till  done  letting  the  drippings  fall  upon  the  pudding.     Have  a  brisk 

oven.     Baste  the  meat  with  the  gravy  taken  out  to  make  room  for  the 

batter.     In  serving  cut  the  pudding  into  squares  and  lay  about  the  meat  in 

the  dish.  Mrs.  Mary  Allen. 

CORNISH  PASTRY. 

Take  two  cups  of  flour,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet  cut  fine,  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  together  with  a  little 
water  or  milk  and  roll  out  flat;  now  spread  over  one-half  of  it  a  layer  of 
cold  chopped  meat,  one  sliced  potato,  one  small  onion,  a  little  turnip  or 
parsley  (whichever  you  like  best),  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  fold  the  paste 
over  and  crimp  around  all  sides;  bake  until  done.     A  good  savory  lunch. 

Katie  Stodden. 

SAUCE  ACCOMPANIMENTS  FOR  MEATS. 

See  Chapter  on  "Meat  Sauces,  Garnishings,  Catsups,  etc." 

FOR  PRESERVING  HAMS. 

See  Department  "Pickles,  Vinegars  and  Brines." 

VEAL  BIRDS. 

(Very  nice  for  luncheons.) 

Take  as  many  tenderloins  of  veal  as  desired  to  make  a  given  number 
of  birds  and  pound  them  flat.  Now  make  a  dressing  of  cracker  crumbs, 
moistened  in  water,  add  a  little  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  a  speck  of  chopped 
onion,  a  speck  of  sage  and  one  raw  Qgg.  Mix,  and  lay  on  top  of  pieces 
of  veal.  Now,  with  toothpicks,  pin  up  the  veal  to  look  as  near  like  birds 
as  possible.  Salt  and  pepper  and  fry  brown  in  butter.  When  done,  take 
up  and  make  a  cream  gravy.  Pour  the  cream  gravy  over  as  many  slices 
of  toast  as  there  are  veal  birds.  Lay  the  birds  on  top,  garnish  with 
parsley,  and  send  to  table.  Mrs.  M.  Brewer. 


HIGH  authorities  frequently  make  the  statement  that  many  of  our 
physical  ailments  are  due  to  poor  bread.  This  being  the  case,  why 
then  do  we  not  compound  good  bread,  when  it  is  just  as  easy  to  make  as 
bad  bread?  Some  cooks  advise  pure,  lukewarm  water  in  mixing  breads 
to  the  exclusion  of  potato  water,  milk  and  water,  milk  alone,  or  milk  and 
whey.  Mrs.  Rorer,  the  well-known  Eastern  instructor,  advises  the  leav- 
ing out  of  sugar  and  eggs  when  making  the  every-day  bread  and  biscuits. 

She  says  "it  is  not  a  matter  of  mere  chance,  how  this  dough  ^ 

is  to  be  made.     Into  the  pan  with  the  water  is  to  be  stirred  ^^f:^^  D 

flour  enough  so  the  whole  mass  can  be  set  on  a  well-floured  ^^^    (/^ 

board.     The  hands  are  to  be  covered  with  flour  also.     The 

dough  farthest  from  the  operator  is  to  be  turned  over  into 

the  middle  of  the  mass  a  number  of  times,  and  then  moved 

half-way  around.     The   former  procedure  is  gone  through 

with,  taking  the  dough  farthest  away  and  pressing  it  down 

into  the  center,  either  with  the  fingers  or  the  ball  of  the 

hand.      A     rocking    motion    adds    to    the    eflicacy   of    the 

kneading. 

"At  the  outset  flour  is  to  be  dusted  on  the  board  from 
time  to  time,  until  the  sticky  stage  has  been  passed.  As 
soon  as  the  dough  does  not  stick  to  the  clean  board,  even 
when  pressed  down,  the  process  is  finished.  It  should  take 
not  less  than  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  at  the  least."  She 
approves  the  compressed  yeast  made  in  the  cities,  but  insists 
on  its  being  freshly  made.  "Salt-rising  bread,"  she  says, 
"is  made  with  the  wild  yeast  of  the  air  and  is  never  so 
wholesome,  as  the  odor  it  gives  out  in  baking  goes  to  show." 

Another  suggestion  she  makes  is  that  it  is  best  to  make 
bread  in  the  morning  rather  than  to  set  it  over  night.  The 
sunlight   has   a  good   effect   upon   it,   the  kitchen   is   of  a 

145 


146  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,   WAFFLES,  ETC. 

more  equable  temperature  and  better  ventilated,  and  it  is  easier  to 
take  the  bread  at  just  the  right  moment,  "when  it  has  doubled  its 
bulk  and  is  very  light."  A  useful  idea  to  be  adopted  in  case  it  can- 
not be  given  attention  on  the  minute  is  to  stir  in  a  handful  of  flour  and 
beat  it  in  thoroughly,  letting  the  dough  stand  thirty  or  forty  minutes 
more.  The  baking  remains,  and  this  is  as  important  as  any  other 
process.  It  is  better  to  mold  the  dough  into  the  pans  at  once  and  let  it 
rise  in  them.  The  oven  should  be  above  the  boiling  point  of  water,  at 
least,  otherwise  the  yeast  plant  will  not  be  killed  and  the  process  of  fer- 
mentation will  be  carried  too  far. 

On  the  other  hand,  too  high  a  temperature  cooks  the  outside  of  the 
bread  so  quickly  that  the  inside  remains  unpenetrated  by  the  heat.  One 
way  of  finding  if  the  oven  is  sufficiently  heated  consists  in  holding  the 
hand  inside  it  while  twenty  is  counted  slowly.  If  positive  discomfort 
makes  it  necessary  to  withdraw  the  hand  the  oven  is  too  hot;  if  no  discom- 
fort is  felt  at  all  it  is  too  cool.  Bread  in  shallow  French  pans  must  go  into 
a  quick  oven  and  be  browned  at  once;  larger  loaves  should  be  kept  in  an 
oven  cool  enough  to  keep  them  without  browning  at  least  ten  minutes. 

Flour  should  be  kept  dry,  as  the  least  dampness  will  affect  it.  Where 
milk  is  used  the  milk  should  be  boiled,  not  simply  heated,  and  not  allowed 
to  be  below  a  luke-warm  temperature.  An  earthen  vessel  should  be  used 
in  preference  to  wood  or  tin,  as  it  can  be  kept  cleaner  and  will  preserve 
the  temperature  of  "the  sponge"  better  than  the  latter.  If  the  flour  is 
white,  with  a  slightly  yellowish  or  straw-colored  tint,  it  is  a  sign  that  the 
flour  is  good.  If  it  is  very  white,  with  a  bluish  cast,  or  with  black  specks 
in  it,  the  flour  is  not  good. 

In  the  making  of  biscuit,  rolls,  gems,  griddle  cakes,  etc.,  where  bak- 
ing-powder is  used,  the  dough  must  never  be  kneaded,  as  the  leavening 
properties  of  the  baking-powder  supersede  the  necessity  for  such  work. 
The  general  rule  of  proportion  is  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  the 
powder  to  each  quart  of  flour,  sifting  the  powder  and  flour  well  together 
in  a  dry  state. 

BOTTLED  YEAST  TO  KEEP  THROUGH  WARM  WEATHER. 

Six  medium  potatoes  grated,  add  twenty  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of 
ginger;  stir  the  above  smooth;  add  boiling  water,  the  same  as  you  make 
flour  starch,  only  not  quite  as  thin,  then  add  yeast;  when  little  bubbles 
appear  stir  it  well  and  stir  well  every  one-half  hour  all  day,  then  bottle 
for  use.  Mrs.  D.  R.  Parsons. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC.  147 

HOME-MADE  HOP  YEAST. 

Take  a  good  pinch  of  hops  and  tie  in  a  cloth;  put  over  this  one  quart 

of  water,  add  three  good-sized  potatoes  pared  and  put  all  in  a  kettle  to 

boil  until  potatoes  are  done.     Take  out  the  hops,  mash  the  potatoes,  and 

stir  in  about  one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  to  which  add  one-half  of  a  cupful  of; 

sugar.     Have  some  prepared  yeast  ready,  soaked,  and,  when  cool  enough,  | 

stir  it  into  the  other  ingredients.     Set  to  rise  and  then  stiffen  with  corn- 1 

meal.     Dry  in  the  wind  or  shade.     When  dry  cut  in  thin  cakes,  or  leave  in  ' 

lumps.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Hall. 

HOnE=MADE  YEAST— No.  2. 

To  one  large  or  two  small  potatoes  one  pint  of  hops,  one  leaf  of  tansy, 
one-half  of  a  pint  of  catnip  leaves,  add  three  quarts  of  water.  Boil  until  .' 
potatoes  are  soft.  Strain  while  hot  over  one  pint  of  flour.  When  cool  \ 
add  one  pint  of  home-made  yeast  (previously  soaked).  Stir  in  flour  to' 
form  rather  a  stiff  batter.  Let  rise  from  ten  to  fourteen  hours.  Thicken 
with  corn-meal,  form  in  small  cakes  and  dry  in  a  cool,  airy,  place,  never  in  ' 
the  sun.  Harriet  Malott. 

POTATO  YEAST. 

Peel  and  wash  three  large  potatoes  throwing  them  into  cold  water. 

Put  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  flour  into  a  bowl  with  an  equal  amount  of 

sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt;    over  these  grate  the  potatoes  quickly 

and  stir  the  whole  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.     Pour  a  pint  of  boiling 

water  into  the  bowl,  stirring  it  into  the  mixture,  and  add  enough  more  of 

the  boiling  water  to  make  the  mixture  of  the  consistency  of  thin  starch. 

Should  the  preparation  refuse  to  thicken  put  in  a  double  boiler  over  the 

fire  and  stir  it  until  it  does  thicken;    then  pour  it  through  a  fine  sieve 

into  a  bowl  and  let  it  cool.     When  lukewarm  stir  in  a  breakfast-cupful  of 

3^east,  cover  the  bowl  and  set  in  a  warm,  but  not  hot,  place  and  let  it  stand 

until  light  and  covered  with  a  white  foam.     When  it  commences  to  rise 

beat  well  and  when  it  has  thoroughly  risen  pour  it  off  into  wide-mouthed 

earthen  jars,  letting  it  remain  for  twelve  hours,  then  cover  the  jars  tightly 

and  put  in  a  cool  place.     One-half  of  a  pint  or  so  of  the  yeast  should  be 

put  into  a  glass  jar  for  making  the  succeeding  lot  of  potato  yeast.     The 

jars  should  always  be  well  shaken  before  the  yeast  is  used. 

M.  E.  K. 
YEAST  BREAD  (WITHOUT  KNEADING). 

At  noon  take  a  dish   (a  two-quart  lard  pail  is  good  for  this  purpose) 

and  put  into  it  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and 

two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  enough  cold  or  tepid  water  to  mix  to  a 


148  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,    WAFFLES,  ETC. 

cream  without  lumps.  Pour  into  this  the  boiling  water  in  which  potatoes 
have  boiled  for  dinner.  Put  in  at  the  same  time  a  yeast  cake  (I  use  Yeast 
Foam)  in  a  cup  of  cold  water.  When  the  yeast  is  cold  pour  the  softened 
yeast  cake  and  the  water,  in  which  it  has  stood,  into  the  pail  of  yeast  and 
let  it  stand  until  night.  Then  put  all  into  the  bread-pan,  add  flour,  and 
make  a  batter.  (If  this  is  not  enough  for  one  baking  a  little  water  may  be 
added.)  Let  rise  until  morning,  then  mix  up  hard  and  let  it  rise  again. 
Do  not  mix  down  at  all.  When  ready  put  in  loaves  and  let  rise  until 
ready  to  bake.     Excellent.  M.  A.  McD. 

BREAD  MADE  FROM  DRY  YEAST. 

Put  into  the  baking-dish  two  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  less  one  teacup- 
ful,  to  be  used  on  the  board  when  kneading;  mix  with  it  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  rub  in  well  one  tablespoonful  of  either  butter,  Ko-nut  or  lard. 
Mix  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  baker's  yeast,  or  its  equivalent,  one-half  of 
a  cake  of  dry  hop  or  compressed  yeast,  with  one  pint  of  luke-warm  water, 
and  pour  it  into  the  middle  of  the  flour,  mixing  the  whole  with  a  large 
spoon  until  the  proper  consistency  for  the  dough  has  been  attained,  using 
either  more  water  or  flour,  as  may  be  needed.  Knead  the  mass  for  about 
one-half  of  an  hour  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  By  morning  it  should 
have  about  doubled  in  bulk.  Knead  it  over  with  a  little  flour,  shape  into 
loaves,  and  after  it  has  risen  in  the  pans  put  into  the  oven  and  bake. 
Do  not  have  the  oven  too  hot  at  first.  When  done  take  out  of  the  pan 
and  lean  it  against  something  until  cool.  Mrs.  T.  Anderson. 

BREAD  MADE  FROM  YEAST  FOAM. 

Take  at  night  one  cake  of  yeast  foam  and  dissolve  it  in  luke-warm 
water.  Turn  in  a  bread-pan  and  mix  into  it  one  quart  of  warm  water  to 
which  has  been  added  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar;  add  enough  flour  to  make  it  just  stiff  enough  to  beat  briskl}^  Set 
to  rise.  Next  morning  pour  this  sponge  into  two  quarts  of  sifted  flour 
with  one  pint  of  warm  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Mix  well  into 
a  smooth  soft  dough.  When  light  make  into  four  loaves  and  bake  about 
one  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Anna  L.  Tholoney. 

SALT  RISING  BREAD. 

Put  three  teacupfuls  of  water,  as  warm  as  you  can  bear  your  finger  in, 
in  a  two-quart  bowl  with  three-fourths  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  in 
flour  to  make  stiff  batter.  This  is  for  the  rising,  or  emptyings,  as  some 
call  it.  Set  the  bowl,  closely  covered,  in  a  kettle,  in  water  as  warm  as  you 
can  bear  your  finger  in,  and  keep  it  as  near  this  temperature  as  possible. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC.  149 

Notice  the  time  you  set  your  rising.  In  three  hours  stir  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour,  put  it  back  and  in  five  and  one-half  hours  from  the  time  of 
setting  it  will  be  within  one  inch  of  the  top  of  your  bowl.  It  is  then  light 
enough  and  will  make  up  eight  quarts  of  flour.  Make  a  sponge  in  the 
center  of  your  flour  with  one  quart  of  water  of  the  same  temperature  as 
the  rising,  stir  the  rising  into  it,  cover  over  with  a  little  dry  flour  and  put  it 
where  it  will  keep  very  warm  and  not  scald.  In  three-fourths  of  an  hour 
mix  this  into  stiff  dough.  If  water  is  used,  be  sure  it  is  very  warm  and  do 
not  work  as  much  as  yeast  bread.  Make  the  loaves  a  little  larger  and 
keep  it  warm  for  another  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  It  will  then  be  ready 
to  bake.  While  rising  this  last  time,  have  your  oven  heating.  It  needs  a 
hotter  oven  than  yeast  bread.  If  these  rules  are  followed,  you  will  have 
bread  as  white  as  snow,  with  a  light  brown  crust  deliciously  sweet  and 
tender.  Mrs.  Jennie  Mills. 

POTATO   BREAD. 

Take  six  good-sized  potatoes,  boil  and  mash  very  fine.  Add  three 
pints  of  boiling  water.  Stir  in  flour  until  you  have  a  stiff  batter.  When  it 
has  become  luke-warm  add  your  yeast  (about  a  penny's  worth)  and  set  the 
bread  in  a  moderately  warm  place.  Next  morning  add  salt  and  knead  in 
flour  till  it  is  very  stiff.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Knead  once  more, 
adding  very  little  flour.  Let  it  rise  once  more,  and  put  into  pans,  making 
them  one-half  full.     When  risen  to  the  top  of  pans,  bake  to  a  good  brown. 

Mary  Cook. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD  (FROM  COMPRESSED  YEAST). 

Take  a  quart  of  quite  hot,  but  not  scalding,  water  and  dissolve  in  it  one 
cake  of  compressed  yeast,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  New  Orleans  molasses, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  When  thor- 
oughly dissolved  add  about  eight  cups  of  entire  or  whole-wheat  flour, 
enough  to  make  a  good  stiff  dough,  kneading  it  until  it  works  clean  from 
the  hands.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  about  three  hours,  then  work 
well  and  let  it  stand  till  light  again,  then  work  into  four  loaves  and  place 
in  well-greased  pans.  Grease  the  top  to  prevent  a  crust  forming,  cover 
with  a  cloth  and  let  stand  till  light — about  one  and  one-half  hours.  Bake 
for  thirty-five  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  not  as  hot  as  for  white 
bread.     This  recipe  makes  most  delicious  bread — moist,  light  and  tender. 

The  Grange  Visitor. 

Alvira  Jones. 


150  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC. 

RICE  BREAD. 

Allow  one-half  of  a  pint  of  ground  rice  to  one  quart  of  milk  and 
water;  put  the  milk  and  water  over  the  fire  to  boil,  reserving  enough  to 
wet  the  rice.  Stir  out  the  lumps,  add  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  when 
the  milk  and  water  boil  stir  in  the  rice,  exactly  as  when  you  make  gruel. 
Boil  it  up  two  or  three  minutes,  stirring  repeatedly;  then  pour  it  out  into 
your  bread-pan  and  immediately  stir  in  as  much  flour  as  you  can  with  a 
spoon.  After  it  is  cool  (of  this  be  very  sure,  as  scalding  the  yeast  will 
make  heavy,  sour  bread,  full  of  great  holes),  add  a  gill  of  yeast,  and  let  it 
stand  until  morning.  Then  knead  in  more  flour  until  the  dough  ceases  to 
stick  to  the  hands.  It  is  necessary  to  make  this  kind  of  bread  a  little 
stiffer  than  that  in  which  no  rice  is  used,  else  there  will  be  a  heavy  streak 
through  the  loaf.     This  is  elegant  bread  and  keeps  moist  several  days. 

Mrs.  Henry  Cole. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 

To  one  well-beaten  egg  add  two  cupfuls  of  graham  flour,  one  cupful 
of  wheat,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  a  little  salt  and  enough  sour  milk  to 
which  has  been  added  soda  to  mix  the  ingredients  to  a  stiff  batter.  Pour 
into  a  medium-sized  buttered  pan  and  steam  two  and  one-half  hours  or 
longer,  according  to  the  size  of  the  loaf.  Mrs.  Marselus. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD— No.  2. 

The  ingredients  are:  one  coffee-cupful  of  graham  flour,  one  coffee- 
cupful  of  yellow  corn-meal,  one  coffee-cupful  of  white  flour.  Sift  them 
together,  sift  into  the  flour  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda;  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of 
'  molasses  (not  syrup),  two  cupfuls  of  sour  milk.  Put  all  in  a  lard  pail, 
cover  tight,  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  It  must  boil  steadily  for  two 
;and  one-half  hours.  A.  H.  Duffell. 

QRANDnOTHER'S  BROWN  BREAD. 

Take  three  pints  of  rye-meal  and  add  to  the  same  amount  of  corn- 
meal.  The  yellow  meal  is  preferable  to  the  white.  When  meal  is  fresh 
do  not  scald  it,  but  when  it  is  old,  or  a  little  bitter,  do  so.  When  any 
.squash  is  left  over  add  a  few  spoonfuls  to  the  meal.  Use  one-half  of  a 
:^^  teacupful  of  molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda  with  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  yeast.  Mix  it  with  warm  water  as 
stiff  as  you  can  stir  it.  Butter  two  iron  pans  plentifully  and  put  the  bread 
in  them.     Have  a  bowl  of  cold  water  at  hand,  and  smooth  over  the  top  of 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC,  151 

the  loaves,  dipping  your  hand  in  the  water.  It  rises  very  quickly,  and 
should  never  be  made  over  night  in  the  summer.  In  the  winter  it  may 
stand  in  a  cool  place,  till  nearly  ready  to  bake.  It'^wants  a  hot  oven,  and 
very  long  baking.  A  brick  oven  is  the  best,  and  then  the  loaves  should 
remain  in  overnight.  Agnes  Kent. 

INDIAN  BREAD. 

There  is  no  bread  so  healthy  2iS  g^ood  Indian  bread.  Take  three  pints 
of  rye-meal,  three  of  Indian-meal;  mix  with  this  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda,  one  cupful  of  molasses  and  one-half  of  a 
cup  of  yeast.  Scald  the  meal.  When  that  is  cool  add  the  rest.  Let  it 
rise  four  hours,  then  bake  three  or  more.  Mrs.  Clarke. 

WIDOW'S  BREAD. 

Mix  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  meal,  one  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing-powder, one  cupful  of  molasses,  two  eggs,  and  salt.  Mix  these 
ingredients  together  with  warm  milk  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  T.  Ruthven. 

GRAHAM  OR  ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD. 

Take  four  heaping  cupfuls  of  graham  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-half  of  a  coffee-cupful  of  molasses,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salera- 
tus.  This  last  must  be  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water  and  stirred  into  the 
molasses  until  it  foams  well.  Pour  it  on  the  meal,  add  enough  milk  to 
make  the  dough  as  stiff  as  cake  mixture;  put  it  into  two  pans  and  bake 
until  done.  Annie  L.  C. 

STEAHED  ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD. 

One-half  of  a  cupful  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
the  molasses  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Take 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.     This  must  steam  two  hours. 

Elsie  Rich. 
HEALTHFUL  CORN  BREAD. 

To  one  quart  of  corn-meal  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  rounding  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  flour,  two  or  three  eggs  and  some 
sour  milk,  enough  to  make  a  batter.  Mrs.  Lina  Hunter. 

RAISED  CORN  BREAD. 

Add  to  a  quart  of  buttermilk  one-half  of  a  cup  of  yeast;  set  in  a 
warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  one  pint  of  dry  bread- 
crumbs, one-half  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


152  •  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC. 

salt,  and  corn-meal  enough  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  batter  and  stir  well. 
Instead  of  baking  steam  this  loaf,  having  for  the  purpose  a  tin  pudding- 
form  or  bucket,  with  a  close-fitting  lid.  Into  this  (well  buttered)  pour  the 
batter  in  the  morning.  After  standing  an  hour  or  two,  and  when  perfectly 
light,  place  the  bucket  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  steam  it  one  and  one- 
half  or  two  hours.     This  will  make  a  nice,  light  brown  loaf. 

M.  J.  Corliss. 
STEAMED  CORN  BREAD. 

Two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sour  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  corn-meal,  one 
cupful  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda,  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  two  eggs.  Put  in  cake-pan  with  a  tube  in  center; 
steam  three  hours,  closely  covered,  then  put  in  oven  to  brown  a  little. 
Set  pan  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes  and  it  will  turn  out  nicely. 

G.  D. 
BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  best  baking-powder,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  large  spoon  of  butter  and 
one-half  of  a  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Mrs.  O.  J.  Asire. 

OLD=FASHIONED  JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  corn-meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  a  pint  of  buttermilk,  one 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Add 
one-half  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  JVIrs.  Mary  Hilton. 

CORN  nUFFINS. 

Sift  together  one  and  two-thirds  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of 
corn-meal,  either  white  or  yellow,  and  three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder;  beat  to  a  cream  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar  and  add  to  them  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Dilute  this 
with  a  pint  of  milk,  add  a  little  salt,  beat  hard  and  put  into  two  dozen 
small,  well-buttered  gem-pans.     Serve  hot.     They  bake  in  a  few  minutes. 

C.  E.  SiLLOWAY. 
CORN  MUFFINS— No.  2. 

One  quart  of  nice  fine  corn-meal,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one- 
half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Sift  the  meal,  soda  and  salt  twice;  then  add 
one  ^gg  with  sour  milk  enough  to  make  a  batter;  have  some  well-greased 
muffin-tins  hot,  drop  in  the  corn-bread  batter  in  spoonfuls  and  bake  quick. 

S.  J.  Sawyer. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,   WAFFLES,  ETC.  153 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Take  one  cup  of  yellow  corn-meal,  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  white  flour 
add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  &gg, 
salt,  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

Mrs.  Kidder. 
CREAn  nUFFINS. 

One  pint  of  flour  sifted  with  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder;  beat  together  one  pint  of  cream  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
add  two  beaten  eggs,  mix  in  the  flour,  drop  in  buttered  muflin-molds  and 
bake  quickly.  G.  A. 

ENGLISH  nUFFINS. 

Sift  together  one  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  mix  in 
gradually  one  and  one-quarter  pints  of  milk,  and  beat  into  a  stiff  griddle- 
cake  batter.  Set  the  muffin-rings  on  a  hot  and  well-greased  griddle,  and, 
when  the  muffins  have  been  cooked  on  both  sides  to  a  delicate  brown, 
pull  them  apart  in  the  center  and  toast  lightly.  Butter  well  and  serve 
hot.  H.  O.  C. 

SUPERIOR  nUFFINS. 

One  quart  of  flour  sifted  with  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  one-half  of 
the  size  of  an  &gg,  one  beaten  &gg  and  one  teacupful  of  sweet  milk.  Beat 
quickly  to  a  batter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  having  the  tins  warmed  in 
advance.  T   R 

HONEY  MUFFINS. 

Sift  together  one  and  one-half  pints  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing-powder and  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Work  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter;  beat  and  add  three  eggs,  one  teacupful  of  honey  and 
one-half  of  a  pint  of  milk.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  J.  J.  M. 

CHICAGO  MUFFINS. 

Mix  together  one  and  one-half  pints  of  flour,  one-half  of  a  pint  of 
corn-meal,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Work  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  beat 
and  add  three  eggs  and  one  pint  of  milk,  and  beat  the  whole  quickly  into 
a  firm  batter.  Have  the  griddle  hot  and  well  greased  to  receive  the  muffin- 
rings  and  cook  to  a  nice  brown.  Muffin-rings  should  not,  as  a  rule,  be 
filled  to  more  than  one-half  of  their  capacity,  and  as  soon  as  the  batter 
rises  to  the  top  the  muffin  is  generally  ready  to  be  turned.  M.  A.  C. 


154  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC. 

NEW  YORK  RYE  MUFFINS. 

Sift  and  mix  one  pint  of  rye  flour,  one-half  of  a  pint  of  corn-meal,  one- 
half  of  a  pint  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  work  in  one  tablespoonful 
of  lard  and  butter,  and  add  two  beaten  eggs  with  one  pint  of  milk;  beat 
into  a  firm  batter.  Grease  muffin-pans  well  and  fill  to  two-thirds  of  their 
capacity.     Bake  in  hot  oven.  L.  E.  B. 

MOTHER'S  TEA  HUFFINS. 

Sift  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Beat  the  yolk  of  one  ^g,g  gradually, 
one-half  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  add  slowly  to  the 
flour,  making  a  smooth,  soft  dough.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter and  the  beaten  white  of  the  egg.  Fill  the  buttered  muflin-pans  half 
full  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Adine  Maufitt. 
BERRY  MUFFINS. 
(Superfine. ) 

One  pint  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a  little  salt. 
Sift  altogether,  cream,  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  butter  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Stir  into  the 
butter,  sugar,  and  Qg^  alternately,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  the  flour 
mixture.  When  smooth  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Now  have 
ready  one  cupful  of  fresh  blackberries  or  blueberries  thoroughly  cleaned 
and  sprinkled  with  sugar.  Stir  them  in  without  breaking.  Pour  in  but- 
tered muffin-tins  and  bake  about  one-half  hour.     Serve  warm. 

R.  G.  J. 
ENTIRE  WHEAT  MUFFINS. 

Beat  three  eggs  with  a  cup  of  milk;  melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder.  Mix  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter.  Bake  in  large 
round  rings  and  when  nearly  done  brush  some  -sweet  milk  over  the  top  of 
each.  Mrs.  C.  Chapin. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  AND  RYE  HUFFINS. 

Sift  together  one  cupful  each  of  wheat  and  rye  flour,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Beat  one  egg  lightly,  add  a  generous  three-quarter  cup  of  milk  and  stir 
into  the  dry  ingredients;  then  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter 
and  bake  in  hot  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Mrs.  Lizette  Spiel. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC.  155 

MILK  nUFFINS. 

One  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs,  beaten  till  light;  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  flour  sujfificient  to 
make  the  batter  a  little  thicker  than  for  pancakes.^  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
in  rings.  Mrs.  T.  J.  Kelly. 

GRAHAM  nUFFINS. 

Two  cupfuls  of  graham  flour,  one  cupful  of  wheat  flour,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one 
&gg  beaten  well,  one  cup  of  milk.  Last  add  about  one-half  of  a  cup  more 
of  milk.  Mrs.  Ellen  Gorham. 

BREAKFAST  MUFFINS. 

One  pint  of  milk  and  two  eggs.  Beat  yolks  first  then  add  milk.  Add 
salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Sift  in  flour  till  it  is  as  stiff  as  it  should 
be  for  cake,  putting  a  dessert-spoonful  of  baking-powder  on  top  of  the 
flour.-  Stir  all  together  then  add  the  whites  well  beaten.  Fill  a  ring  or 
gem-pan  full  of  butter,  melt,  and  beat  the  entire  mixture  once  more. 
Then  pour  into  rings  and  bake  ten  minutes. 

Mrs.  George  W.  Gregory. 

MUFFINS  OF  BUTTERMILK. 

(Good.) 

Use  a  pint  of  rich  buttermilk  and  mix  in  sufficient  flour  to  make  the 
batter  very  stiff.  Add  an  ^gg,  beaten  in,  a  little  salt,  and  add  last  one-half 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  very  little  hot  water.  Bake  in 
patty-pans  or  rings.     They  require  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Julia  Robinson. 
QRAHAH  QEHS. 

Into  two  cupfuls  of  buttermilk  beat  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  a 
little  salt.  Add  two  cupfuls  graham  flour,  also  one  cup  of  wheat  flour, 
and  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Bake  in  gem-pans.  They  are  nice  for 
breakfast.  Mrs.  Nellie  Merritt. 

GRAHAM  GEMS— No.  2. 

In  a  mixing  bowl  put  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  cold  water.  Sift  in 
three  cups  of  graham-meal,  stirring  briskly  while  you  add  the  meal.  Beat 
for  five  minutes,  and  drop  them  from  the  spoon  into  a  hot  pan  and  into  a 
hot  oven.  This  recipe  I  learned  from  a  lady  physician  who  has  no  faith 
in  soda,  yeast  or  molasses,  as  factors  in  producing  good  bread. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Otis. 


156  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC. 

WHEAT  GEHS. 

Two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  one  and  one-fourth  cupfuls  of 
milk,  three  eggs,  sugar  to  sweeten,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.     Bake  in  gem-pans. 

Mrs.  Alice  Alexander. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  GEMS. 

Two  cups  of  whole  wheat  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  Qgg,  one  cupful  of  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 
Beat  for  one  minute  and  bake  in  gem-pans  for  one-half  hour.    Mother. 

SCOTCH  SHORTBREAD. 

Rub  together  into  a  stiff,  short  paste  two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound 
of  butter  and  six  ounces  of  loaf  sugar;  make  it  into  square  cakes^  about 
one-half  of  an  inch  thick,  pinch  them  all  along  the  edge  at  the  top;  over 
the  whole  surface  of  the  cakes  sprinkle  some  white  comfits;  put  the  cakes 
on  tins  so  as  to  touch  each  other  on  their  edges,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Maggie  Bennett. 

ILLINOIS  POP-OVERS. 

Beat  two  eggs  together  until  thoroughly  mixed;  add  one  cupful  of 
milk.  Put  one  cupful  of  flour,  sifted  twice,  into  another  bowl;  add  to  it 
gradually  the  eggs  and  milk  and  a  little  salt;  beat  until  smooth.  Put  at 
once  into  greased  hot  gem-pans  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  for 
forty-five  minutes.  If  properly  baked,  they  should  swell  six  times  their 
original  bulk,  and  may  be  used  for  breakfast  or  luncheon,  or  served  with 
a  liquid  pudding  sauce  as  a  dessert.  Iron  gem-pans  insure  better  results 
than  those  made  of  lighter  metals. 

Sabylla  I.  Martin,  Pawnee  City,  Neb. 

BUNS. 

Nice  buns  are  made  as  follows:  Mix  two  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  two 
cupfuls  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  yeast  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  dough 
— let  it  rise;  after  rising  add  one  cupful  of  lard  or  butter,  one  grated  nut- 
meg, and  more  flour.  Rise  again.  When  ready  for  baking  cut  and  shape 
it  into  buns.  Beat  up  an  &q^  and  spread  over  the  top;  rise  in  the  pans  a 
short  time  before  baking.  Lucy  Sillowa. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC.  157 

ROLLS  FOR  TEA. 

Make  the  rolls  of  bread  dough.     When  they  have  risen  enough,  slit 

each  roll  lengthwise  about  an  inch  deep.     When  they  are  baked  brush 

them  with  thin  boiled  corn-starch  and  water,  and  put  back  in  the  oven  for 

a  moment.     The  white  of  an  Q^g  will  glaze  them  also. 

Mrs.  Hettie  Stanwood. 
SPICED  ROLLS. 

Take  a  piece  of  your  bread  dough  or  baking-powder  biscuit  dough 
and  roll  it  one-half  of  an  inch  thick,  brush  the  top  with  melted  butter  and 
cover  thick  with  cinnamon  and  fine  white  sugar;  begin  at  one  side  and 
roll  as  jelly  cake,  then  cut  it  an  inch  thick  and  lay  in  a  pan  as  biscuits, 
close  together,  and  let  them  rise.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  If  baking- 
powder  dough  is  used  bake  immediately.  Mrs.  Walter  Butler. 

ENGLISH  BREAKFAST  ROLLS. 

Roll  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  pound  of  flour;  then  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  good  yeast,  and  break  in  one  Qgg.  Mix  it  with  a  little 
warm  milk  poured  into  the  middle  of  the  flour;  stir  all  well  together,  and 
set  it  by  the  fire  to  rise;  then  make  it  into  light  dough  and  again  set  by 
the  fire.  Make  up  the  rolls,  lay  them  on  a  tin,  and  set  them  in  front  of 
the  fire  before  you  put  them  into  the  oven,  and  brush  them  over  with  &gg. 

Mrs.  Lily  Farnsworth. 

RAISED  CINNAMON  ROLLS. 

When  yeast  bread  is  ready  to  knead  into  loaves,  take  as  much  of  the 
dough  as  is  needed  and  roll  out  about  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick.  Spread 
on  top  a  thin  layer  of  butter,  then  sugar,  and  upon  this  sprinkle  cinnamon. 
Roll  the  dough  as  you  would  for  a  jelly-cake  roll,  and  slice  off  as  many 
rolls  as  you  want.  Put  these  in  a  pan  to  rise  as  you  would  light  biscuits. 
When  raised,  bake  a  nice  brown.  Madge  E.  Miller. 

SALLY  LUNN  (WITHOUT  YEAST). 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  with  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar  added  to  one  cup  of  sweet  milk;  mix  all  together,  then 
stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter  and  add  one-half  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water  and  also  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir 
briskly  and  put  in  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Nice  served 
hot  for  supper.  Mrs.  S.  H.  Leet. 


158  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC. 

LOUISIANA  RICE  PONE. 

One  pint  of  boiled  rice  stirred  in  one  pint  of  milk  with  a  small  teacup- 
ful  of  corn-meal  (white  corn-meal  preferable),  four  well-beaten  eggs,  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  lard  melted  together,  one  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  all  well  mixed;  beat  in  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder;  bake  and  serve  in  ordinary  pans  well  greased. 

Millie  Powers. 
DELICIOUS  HOT  RUSK. 

One-half  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one-half  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  three  cupfuls  of  flour.  Mrs.  Forest  Webb. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

Three-quarters  of  a  sieve  of  flour,  set  with  three  cupfuls  of  luke-warm 
milk  and  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  luke-warm  water  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar.  When  raised,  put  in  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  a  small  handful  of 
salt,  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  or  a  little  nutmeg.  Add  flour  enough  to  make 
it  stiff.  Let  rise  again  when  roll  out  and  put  in  pans.  Put  a  little  melted 
butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top,  then  bake.         Mrs.  C.  Chichester. 

COFFEE  CAKE— No.  2. 

When  I  am  making  bread  I  save  a  cupful  of  yeast,  add  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  of  a  cupful 
of  butter.  Take  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  warm,  and  flour  to  insure  a  stiff 
batter.  Set  it  away  till  it  has  risen  light.  Then  beat  well  and  put  in 
bread  or  cake-pans  and  let  it  rise  once  more.  When  light  sprinkle  sugar 
and  cinnamon  over  the  top  of  the  cake  and  small  pieces  of  butter.  It 
usually  takes  one-half  hour  to  bake  this  cake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Mary  Casper. 
ENTIRE  WHEAT  DROP  BISCUITS. 

One-fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  two  scant  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a  generous  pinch 
of  salt,  enough  whole-wheat  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls in  heated  pans  and  bake  in  quick  oven  twenty  minutes. 

A  Farmer's  Wife. 
SODA  BISCUITS. 

I  always  have  success  with  soda  biscuits  and  will  tell  yo.u  how  I  make 
them.  One  quart  of  flour,  with  one  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  a  pinch 
of  salt  sifted  with  it,  one  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter,  or  lard  rubbed 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC.  150 

with  the  flour,  and  enough  sour  milk  or  buttermilk  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Roll  out,  cut  into  biscuits  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.     Putting  the  soda 

into  the  flour  is  much  better  than  putting  it  into  the  milk. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Sharp. 
PAN=AMERICAN  RICE  BISCUITS. 

To  every  one-half  pound  of  rice  flour  add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  two  eggs.  Beat  the  butter 
to  a  cream,  stir  in  the  rice  flour  and  sugar,  and  moisten  the  whole  with 
the  eggs, which  should  be  well  beaten.  Roll  out  the  paste,  shape  it  with  a 
round  paste-cutter  into  small  cakes  and  bake  from  twelve  to  eighteen 
minutes  in  a  very  slow  oven.     They  are  delicious.  Maude  Cutting. 

ABERNETHY  BISCUITS. 

Rub  an  ounce  of  butter  into  one  pound  of  flour,  adding  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  sugar  and  one-half  of  an  ounce  of  caraway  seeds.  Mix  all 
together  with  two  eggs,  and,  if  necessary,  a  little  milk.  Roll  the  batter 
out,  knead  it  into  small  round  cakes,  making  holes  with  a  fork  to  allow 
the  steam  to  escape,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Jonathan  Dixon. 
ARROWROOT  BISCUITS. 

Beat  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream;  add  gradually  three 

well-beaten  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour,  one-quarter  of  a  pound 

of  sifted  sugar,  and  three  ounces  of  arrow-root,  pounded  to  crush   the 

lumps.     Mix  all  smoothly  together.      Have  ready  a  well-oiled  tin,  and 

drop  the  biscuits  from  a  spoon  in  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  silver  dollar. 

Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Candace  Phelps. 

CHOCOLATE  BISCUIT. 

(Especially  appropriate  for  chocolataires  and  afternoon  teas.) 

Cover  three  large  baking-pans  with  paper  that  has  been  well-oiled 
with  washed  butter.  Over  these  dredge  powdered  sugar.  Melt  in  a  cup 
one  ounce  of  chocolate.  Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs. 
Add  to  the  yolks  a  generous  one-half  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  beat 
until  light  and  firm.  Add  the  melted  chocolate,  and  beat  a  few  minutes 
longer.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth.  Measure  out 
three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  and  stir  it  and  the  whites  into  the 
yolks.  The  whites  and  flour  must  be  cut  in  as  lightly  as  possible,  and  with 
very  little  stirring.  Drop  the  mixture  in  teaspoonfuls  on  the  buttered 
paper.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  the  cakes  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
for  about  fourteen  or  fifteen  minutes.  The  mixture  can  be  shaped  like 
lady  fingers,  if  preferred.  Miss  Parloa. 


160  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC. 

CHOCOLATE  WAFERS. 

(For  receptions  and  chocolataires.) 

Grate  four  ounces  of  chocolate  and  mix  with  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  bak- 
ing-powder. Separate  six  eggs.  Add  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  to 
the  yolks,  and  beat  until  very  light;  then  add  the  grated  yellow  rind  and 
the  juice  of  one-half  of  a  lemon,  and  beat  five  minutes  longer.  Now  add 
the  dry  mixture,  and  with  a  spoon  lightly  cut  in  the  whites,  which  are  first 
to  be  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  the  mixture  into  buttered  shallow  pans, 
having  it  about  one-half  of  an  inch  thick.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
one-half  of  an  hour.  When  the  cake  is  cool,  spread  a  thin  layer  of  cur- 
rant jelly  over  one  sheet,  and  place  the  other  sheet  on  this.  Ice  with 
vanilla  icing,  and  when  this  hardens,  cut  in  squares.  It  is  particularly 
nice  to  serve  with  ice-cream.  Maria  Parloa. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  CRACKERS. 

Mix  fresh-ground  wheat-meal  with  pure  soft  water  into  a  stiff  dough. 
Roll  out  and  cut  the  mass  into  thin  crackers,  not  quite  as  thick  as  the  Bos- 
ton cracker  of  the  shops,  but  larger  in  circumference,  and  bake  in  a  brick 
oven.     Be  very  cautious  and  not  over-cook  or  burn  them. 

Mrs.  Jane  Pape. 

SWEET  CRACKERS. 

One  cup  of  lard,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  five  cents'  worth  of  the  oil  of  lemon  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  baking  ammonia.  Mix  lard  and  sugar  together,  put  in 
the  eggs  and  milk,  ammonia  and  lemon,  and  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll 
thin  as  pie-crust,  cut  in  squares  and  stick  with  a  stiff  dough.  Better  after 
ammonia  evaporates  a  few  hours.  These  crackers  keep  for  months  if 
desired.     Have  the  druggist  pulverize  the  ammonia. 

Miss  Estella  Lane. 

OATMEAL  CAKE. 

Mix  fine  oatmeal  into  a  stiff  dough  with  milk-warm  water;  roll  it  to 
the  thinness  almost  of  a  wafer;  bake  on  a  griddle  or  iron  plate  placed 
over  a  slow  fire  for  three  or  four  minutes;  then  place  it  on  edge  before 
the  fire  to  harden.  This  will  be  good  for  months  if  kept  in  a  dry  place. 
Like  hard  crackers,  it  is  an  excellent  article  to  exercise  sedentary  teeth 
upon.  Mrs.  H.  Hines. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC.  161 

HASTY  TEA  CAKE. 

Mix  with  a  pint  of  flour  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  e.gg.  Rub 
well  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  in  flour.  Powder  fine  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Add  one  cupful  of  cold  W2iter,  making  a  stiff  batter. 
Bake  on  tin  for  tea.  If  you  prefer  baking-powder  use  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  same  in  place  of  cream  of  tartar  and  soda.  You  can  substitute  sour 
milk  or  buttermilk  for  either  and  it  makes  the  cake  (or  bread)  much  nicer. 
Bake  quickly.  Mrs.  Lissie  Ford. 

PRETZELS. 

Into  two  cupfuls  of  flour  put  one-third  of  a  cup  of  butter,  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  and  one  whole  &gg,  a  pinch  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-half  of  a  yeast  cake;  then  stir  in  enough  milk  to  form  a  very  stiff 
dough;  turn  the  dough  on  a  board  and  pound  with  the  rolling-pin;  let 
rise.  Cut  off  small  pieces,  roll  between  the  hands  into  strips,  pinch  the 
ends  together  to  form  small  rings  and  let  rise.  Put  them,  a  few  at  a  time, 
into  boiling  water  previously  salted.  Let  cook  until  they  begin  to  come  to 
the  surface.  Take  out  quickly,  sprinkle  with  salt,  arrange  in  a  greased 
baking-pan  and  bake  a  light  brown.  Mrs.  Spiel. 

FEATHERY  FLAPJACKS. 

One  quart  of  yellow  corn-meal,  one  handful  of  wheat  flour,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking-powder,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one 
pint  of  sour  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  two  eggs;  add  cold  water 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter  and  fry  on  very  hot  pancake  griddle  with 
plenty  of  fat.  Mrs.  Lester. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

Sift  dry  one  pint  of  buckwheat  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar  with  water  sufficient  to 
make  a  batter.     Beat  but  lightly  and  bake  at  once  on  a  hot  griddle. 

J.  S.  C. 
RICE  QRIDDLE=CAKES. 

Take  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  rice  and  boil;  when  cold  mix  with  one 
quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  two  teacupfuls  of  flour  sifted 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  with  a  little  salt;  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  froth  and  add  last.     Bake  on  a  griddle.  E.  F.  A. 


162  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC. 

INDIAN  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Sift  and  mix  together  two-thirds  of  a  quart  of  corn-meal,  one-third  of 
a  quart  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar,  two  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking-powder  and  a  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  two 
beaten  eggs  and  one  pint  of  milk,  beating  into  a  smooth  batter.  Brown 
nicely  on  a  very  hot  griddle.     Serve  with  syrup.  W.  J.  D. 

FLANNEL  CAKES. 

Sift  together  one  and  one-half  pints  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of 
brown  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Add  two  beaten  eggs  and  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk  and  beat 
into  a  smooth  thin  batter.  Bake  on  hot  griddle  to  a  rich  brown  color  and 
serve  with  maple  syrup.  V.  C.  E. 

ENGLISH  PANCAKES. 

Sift  together  one  teacupful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder 
and  a  pinch  of  salt;  beat  two  eggs  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and 
dilute  with  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  teacupfiil  of  cream;  make  thin  bat- 
ter with  flour.  Cook  in  hot  frying-pan  with  melted  butter,  using  sufficient 
batter  to  cover  the  pan.  L.  R.  G. 

RICE  PANCAKES. 

Set  a  pint  of  new  milk  over  the  fire  and  when  scalding  hot  stir  in  two 
spoonfuls  of  ground  rice  which  has  been  mixed  smooth  in  one-quarter  of 
a  pint  of  cold  milk.  Let  it  thicken,  but  not  boil.  Cool  it,  adding  gently 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  When  cold  add  white  sugar,  a  little 
nutmeg,  four  eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  little  salt.  Use  as  little  lard  as  pos- 
sible in  frying  these  pancakes  and  make  them  light  brown.  Sift  sugar 
over  them,  roll  them  to  a  round  shape  and  cut  slices  of  lemon  to  serve 
with  them.  Mrs.  E.  Waxel. 

PANCAKES  AU  NATUREL. 

Use  two  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  flour,  butter,  one-half  of  a  pint 
of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Rub  a  little  salt  into  the  flour  in  a 
basin,  make  a  hole  in  the  center,  stir  in  part  of  the  milk  until  the  flour  is 
well  mixed;  break  in  one  ^^^  and  beat  with  the  flat  side  of  a  spoon  for 
five  minutes,  add  the  other  and  beat  until  the  surface  is  covered  with  air 
bubbles,  then  mix  in  the  remainder  of  the  milk;  melt  a  piece  of  butter  as 
large  as  a  walnut  in  a  small  saute-pan  and  pour  in  sufficient  batter  to 


BREAD.  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC.  163 

make  a  thin  pancake;  shake  the  pan  gently  for  two  or  three  minutes,  then 
turn  the  pancake  with  a  plate,  or  toss  it,  and  brown  the  other  side;  when 
done  serve  on  a  napkin  on  a  plate,  to  absorb  the  grease,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  lemon  juice  and  eat  immediately.  Mrs.  L.  J.  Mann. 

FRENCH  PANCAKES. 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  three 
eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  cupful  of  milk.  Beat  thoroughly  and  fry  on 
a  hot  griddle.  Roll  up  and  fill  with  any  kind  of  cold  meat,  chopped  fine 
and  fried  in  butter.  Mrs.  John  Spiel. 

ADAM'S  ALE  (WATER)  PANCAKES. 

Sift  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  into  two  and  one-half  cups  of 
sifted  flour,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn-meal,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix 
flour,  corn-meal,  sugar  and  salt,  and  into  this  mixture  beat  enough  cold 
water  to  make  a  thin  smooth  batter,  then  add  beaten  eggs,  and  beat  well; 
if  the  batter  is  not  quite  thin  add  a  little  more  water  until  it  is.  Bake  on 
a  hot  griddle.  ^  Mary  Kelley. 

XORN=nEAL  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  yellow  corn-meal,  sift,  and  put  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt  in  meal,  pour  on  boiling  water  until  it  Is  a  stiff  mass,  let  cool,  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  flour,  enough  water  to  mix  rather 
stiff;  bake  on  hot  griddle.  Jennie  M. 

VELVET  BREAKFAST  CAKES. 

Put  a  pint  of  new  milk  on  the  fire;  let  it  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Stir 
into  it  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Add  salt,  and  three  spoon- 
fuls of  good  yeast,  with  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  with  these  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  all  well  together  and  put  the  mixture 
in  a  warm  place  in  a  basin  with  a  cloth  over  it  for  two  hours.  Then  make 
it  up  into  small  cakes,  lay  them  on  a  well-oiled  tin,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  Mamie  Peck. 

BREAKFAST  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Take  one  pint  buttermilk  or  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
soda,  two  eggs.  Then  thicken  with  flour  and  cook  on  a  hot  griddle  just 
before  eating.  Mrs.  M.  E.  H. 


164  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC, 

SNOW  PANCAKES. 

Freshly  fallen  snow  can  be  used  instead  of  eggs  in  making  batter  for 
pancakes.  Care  must  be  had  that  the  snow  is  as  pure  as  possible.  The 
batter  should  be  made  rather  thick,  and  the  snow  mixed  with  each  pan- 
cake, just  before  it  is  put  into  the  pan.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  snow  will 
be  equal  to  one  ^^%.  Graham  gems  can  also  be  made  by  substituting 
snow  for  eggs,  but  putting  three  parts  of  snow  to  two  of  graham.  Put 
into  a  hot  oven  and  bake  quickly.  V.  A.  W. 

WAFFLES. 

To  a  pint  of  milk  put  two  eggs,  two  ounces  of  butter,  one-half  of  a  gill 
of  yeast,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter.  The  milk  and 
butter  are  to  be  warmed  together.  Beat  the  eggs  and  mix  with  the  flour. 
Add  the  salt  and  yeast.  The  iron  must  be  heated  on  hot  coals  and  but- 
tered and  one  side  filled  with  batter,  then  shut  up  and  laid  in  the  fire. 
After  a  few  minutes  turn  it  upon  the  other  side.  Sophia  Montrose. 

HOMINY  WAFFLES. 

One  teacupful  of  cooked  hominy,  one  ^^^,  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, a  little  salt,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking-powder;  beat  the  ^^^  light,  add  butter,  salt  and  hominy  then 
add  the  ^^^,  beat  in  the  milk  and  sift  in  slowly  the  baking-powder  and 
flour;  beat  all  together  and  bake  in  a  waffle-iron.  Minnie  North. 

JOLLY  BOYS. 

Mix  together  thoroughly  while  dry  one  and  one-half  pints  of  rye- 
meal,  one-half  of  a  pint  of  flour,  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  corn-meal,  two 
pinches  of  cinnamon,  a  little  salt  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Add  one  ^^%,  well  beaten;  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  molasses  and  sugar, 
and  cold  water  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Fry  in  hot  lard  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  at  a  time  and  cook  until  well  browned. 

Anna  Bigsby. 
WILHELM  WAFFLES. 

Mix  one  quart  of  flour  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  large 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  work 
in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  butter  and  add  four  beaten  eggs  with  one 
pint  of  milk  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Beat  into  a  smooth,  stiff 
batter  and  bake  in  hot,  well-greased  waffle-iron.  Sprinkle  with  sugar 
before  serving.  Hilda. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC.  165 

SOFT  WAFFLES. 

Sift  together  one  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 
one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  rub  in  but- 
ter and  add  two  beaten  eggs  with  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk.  Mix 
the  whole  into  a  smooth  batter  and  pour  into  hot  and  well-greased  waffle- 
irons.     Sprinkle  with  sifted  sugar  and  serve  hot.         Mrs.  A.  M.  White. 

RICE  WAFFLES. 

One  teacupful  of  flour  sifted  with  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  one 
coffee-cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one- 
half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  three  beaten  eggs.  Mash  the  rice  fine, 
add  the  butter,  then  two  teacupfuls  of  milk  with  the  flour  and  finish  with 
the  eggs.  Beat  all  together.  Have  the  wafifle-irons  hot  and  well  greased 
with  butter.     Fill  three-quarters  full  and  let  the  first  side  be  well  browned 

before  turning.  Minevra  Rorer. 

SCONES. 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one-half  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-third  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  one  Qgg,  currants  if  desired.  Add  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  divide  in  half,  flatten  with  the  hand  into  a  round  cake  the  thick- 
ness of  a  biscuit,  mark  with  a  knife  into  four  scones  and  bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  N.  T.  Morden. 

HEALTH  MUFFINS,  OEMS,  HUSHES,  ETC. 

See  Part  II.,  under  head  of  "Cereals  and  Farinaceous  Dishes." 

PLAIN  SHORTCAKE. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cupful  of 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  one  &gg  and  a  little  salt.  Beat 
well  with  a  spoon.  Pour  this  into  the  baking-pan  and  smooth  a  little  with 
the  spoon.  Mollie. 

STRAWBERRY  OR  PEACH  SHORTCAKE. 

Rub  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^gg  into  a  little  flour,  pour  in  two 
cupfuls  of  sour  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  into 
dough  and  roll  into  cakes  one-half  of  an  inch  thick  and  ten  inches  in  diam- 
eter. Prick  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done  split 
them  open  with  a  knife  and  spread  with  nice  butter,  lay  the  bottom  piece 
on  a  plate  and  cover  it  with  strawberries  nearly  an  inch  deep.  (It  is 
better  to  have  the  strawberries  sprinkled  with  sugar  a  few  hours  before 


ir.r,  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  WAFFLES,  ETC. 

they  are  put  into  the  cake.)  Put  over  this  the  top  of  the  cake  with  the 
crust  side  down  and  a  layer  of  strawberries  again;  over  this  lay  the  bot- 
tom piece  of  another  cake  and  more  berries  and  put  on  the  top  piece 
right  side  up.  Serve  with  sweet  cream.  Short  cakes  are  sometimes  made 
in  this  way  by  substituting  raspberries  or  other  fruit  for  strawberries. 

Minnie  Smith. 
STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE— No.  2. 

Beat  four  eggs  and  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  well.  Add  one  cup  of 
flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  water.  Stir  the  flour  and  baking-powder  in  well.  Then  add  the  water. 
Bake  in  one  layer  for  shortcake.  Mrs.  O.  B.  Price. 

VANILLA  FRITTERS. 

Place  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  in  a  bowl,  add  one- 
fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  stale 
macaroon  crumbs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  the  yolk  of  an  &gg  and  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  melted  butter;  mix  thoroughly  and  add  by  degrees  three-quarters  of 
a  teacupful  of  luke-warm  water;  beat  to  a  smooth  cream,  add  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  whisked  to  a  firm  froth  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Have 
ready  a  saucepan  half  full  of  boiling  fat,  drop  the  batter  by  spoonfuls  into 
this  and  fry  till  of  a  light  golden  brown.  Take  out  quickly,  ain  care- 
fully on  clean  kitchen  paper  and  serve  piled  high  on  a  doily.  Dust  with 
sifted  sugar  before  serving.  Mrs.  A.  MacDonald. 

APPLE  OR  BANANA  FRITTERS. 

Make  a  batter  of  a  cup  and  one-half  of  flour,  with  two  teaspoons  of 
baking-powder  sifted  through  it,  one  &g,^,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk,  a  little  sugar.  Pare,  core  and  cut  into 
slices  three  small  sour  apples.  Stir  them  into  the  batter.  Drop  from  the 
spoon  into  plenty  of  boiling  lard.  Take  out  with  a  skimmer  and  sprinkle 
powdered  sugar  over  them.  A  little  cinnamon  added  to  the  sugar  is  an 
improvement.     Send  them  to  the  table  hot.  Mary  Reuns. 


^ 


T    O    /=\    S    T 


^ 


THE  object  of  toasting  bread  is  to  extract  the  water,  enabling  it  to 
digest  more  freely. 
Bread  should  be  warmed  first  for  the  purpose  of  drying,  then  toasted 
carefully  a  pale  gold  color.  By  this  method  the  moisture  is  drawn  out, 
and  thus  becomes  the  pure  farina  of  wheat  which  is  easy  to  digest.  The 
fire  should  be  clear  and  hot,  the  bars  clean.  The  bread  should  be  cut  one- 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  the  crusts  trimmed  and  sent  to  the  table  as  soon 
as  done.  Some  prefer  the  moist  toast  instead  of  dry;  in  that  case,  after 
buttering,  pour  a  very  little  water  from  the  tea-kettle  upon  it,  letting  it 
penetrate  the  slices 

GERflAN  TOAST. 

Cut  slices  of  stale  bread,  dip  them  in  enough  milk  to  soften,  then  dip 
in  beaten  egg;  put  in  a  pan  with  just  sufficient  butter  to  fry  brown  as  an 
omelet,  then  serve.     Like  pancakes,  the  hotter  the  toast  the  better. 

Mrs.  Roth. 

HAfl  TOAST. 

Chop  cold  boiled  ham  very  fine,  toast  slices  of  bread  and  butter  them. 
After  laying  the  ham  on  the  toast  place  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 
Beat  up  six  eggs  with  milk  and  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  the  eggs  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  lump  of  butter  and  stir  till  thick,  but  do  not  boil.  Put 
the  ham  and  toast  on  a  platter,  pour  the  eggs  over,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Tillie  Monreal. 

TOAST  FOR  GAME. 

Toast  slices  of  bread  one-third  of  an  inch  thick  till  brightly  browned 
on  both  sides.  Cut  off  the  crust,  hold  the  bread  over  a  bowl  of  boiling 
water  for  a  minute  to  imbibe  the  steam,  and  butter  well.  Soak  them  in 
the  dripping  in  the  pan  under  the  birds,  and  when  these  are  ready,  serve 
them  upon  it.  Mrs.  H.  Collier. 

167 


168  TOAST. 

MEAT  TOAST. 

Take  the  remains  of  a  cold  roast,  mince  finely,  and  mix  with  a  pint 
of  it,  including  the  gravy,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  and  one  onion,  minced  fine.  Stir  the  mixture  over  a 
slow  fire  until  it  is  thick.  When  cold  spread  it  on  pieces  of  toast,  brush 
it  over  with  beaten  &g,g,  strew  bread-crumbs  on  the  top,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Just  before  serving,  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  over  the 
toast.  Mrs.  C.  O.  Pond. 

TOHATO  TOAST. 

Toast  bread  quite  brown.  Stew  a  pint  of  ripe  tomatoes,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  a  little  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Add  one-half  of 
a  cup  of  cream.  Scald  the  cream  only.  Pour  the  tomatoes  and  cream 
over  the  toast.  Mrs.  T.  Freeman. 

TOMATO  TOAST— No.  2. 

Take  six  tomatoes,  pare  and  arrange  in  a  layer  on  a  buttered  pan, 
sprinkle  over  some  fine  bread-crumbs,  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  dotted  on  top,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
twenty  minutes.  Serve  on  hot  buttered  toast.  Pour  the  gravy  in  the  dish 
over  all.  Mrs.  R. 

SHAD=ROE  TOAST. 

Throw  the  roe  into  boiling  water,  add  a  slice  of  onion  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt;  simmer  gently  for  twenty  minutes  and  drain.  With  a 
fork  remove  the  membrane.  In  the  meantime  toast  a  few,  cut  off  the 
crust  and  spread  with  the  roe;  over  the  whole  sprinkle  the  yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs  crumble  fine.  Lay  over  the  whites  cut  in  rings.  Serve 
hot.  Mrs.  a.  B.  Peters. 

SAUSAGE  TOAST. 

Fry  six  link  sausages;  remove  the  skins- and  mix  with  a  grating  of 
good  cheese,  such  as  Parmesan,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  mixed  mustard; 
spread  the  mixture  on  hot  buttered  toast.     Excellent  for  luncheon. 

LiDA. 
TOAST— AU  QRATIN. 

Toast  circular  pieces  of  bread,  pouring  a  little  hot  water  over  to  keep 
them  soft.  Butter  and  grate  over  them  some  English  dairy  cheese.  Put 
in  the  oven  to  brown  and  serve  very  hot.  Mrs.  L.  Cribben. 


TOAST.  169 

ARnE  RITTER. 

Cut  one-half  of  a  loaf  of  bread  two  days  old  into  slices  one-quarter  of 
an  inch  thick,  dip  each  slice  into  cold  milk,  lay  them  on  top  of  one 
another,  pour  a  little  milk  over  the  whole  and  let  them  lie  ten  minutes. 
Beat  up  two  eggs  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  dip  each  slice  into  the 
beaten  egg  and  fry  in  half  lard  and  half  butter  to  a  light  brown  on  both 
sides.     Serve,  dusted  thickly  with  white  sugar.  Lucy  Caldwell. 

MILK  TOAST. 

Toast  six  or  eight  slices  of  bread  a  nice  brown.  Put  a  quart  of  milk 
over  the  fire,  and  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  salt,  in  a  cup- 
ful of  cold  milk.  When  the  milk  commences  to  get  pretty  hot  add  the 
flour,  a  large  piece  of  butter,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  boils.  Do  not  let 
it  scorch.  Then  dip  the  toast,  a  slice  at  a  time,  in  the  boiling  milk  after 
lifting  it  to  the  back  of  the  stove.  Lay  the  toast  after  dipping  in  a  deep 
dish  and  then  pour  the  contents  of  the  saucepan  over  it,  cover  it  to  keep 
hot,  and  serve.     Some  prefer  not  to  thicken  the  milk. 

Mrs.  Mattie  Hinton. 

TOAST  WITH  SARDINES. 

Scrape  and  bone  sardines,  lay  them  on  a  plate;  sprinkle  them  with 
lemon  juice  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Stand  them  in  the  oven  until 
thoroughly  hot:  have  ready  some  neat  slices  of  hot-buttered  toast;  lay 
the  sardines  on  these  and  serve  at  once.  Loraine  M. 

FRUIT  TOAST— AS  A  DESSERT. 

Slice  the  bread  for  toast  exceedingly  thin  but  use  plenty  of  butter. 
Take  a  pint  of  cherries  that  are  stemmed  and  put  into  a  kettle  with  one- 
half  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  very  little  water.  Stew  the  fruit  tender 
and  cover  the  toast  with  the  fruit  and  syrup,  and  set  away  on  ice  till  cold. 
Other  fruit  may  be  used  in  the  same  way.  Nellie  B. 

ZWIEBACH. 

This  is  a  German  name  for  a  toast  made  from  rusks  which  are  split  in 
slices  one-half  of  an  inch  thick  and  dried  in  a  very  slow  oven  until  dried 
through  and  turned  yellow.  They  make  good  cream  toast.  Vienna  bread 
may  be  dried  in  the  same  way.  M.  Hoover. 


170  TOAST. 

BEEF  TONGUE  TOAST. 

The  tongue  of  beef  makes  a  fine  toast.  Grate  a  boiled  tongue,  mix 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper  with  it  and  make  a  paste  of  it  by  adding  the  yolks 
of  eggs.  Keep  it  hot  but  not  boiling;  place  it  on  toast  as  thin  as  can  be 
made,  sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  over  and  set  it  in  the  oven  till  ready. 

Mrs.  Kate  Wren. 

KIDNEY  TOAST. 

Chop  parsley  and  a  little  shallot  and  place  them  in  a  pan  with  two 
small  kidneys  after  first  chopping  the  kidneys  very  fine.  Take  off  the 
outer  skin  and  the  sinews  of  the  kidneys  before  mincing  them.  Fry  the 
whole  in  butter.  Then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce, 
sprinkle  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  boil  for  three  minutes,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Butter  thin  slices  of  toast,  cover  them  with  this  mince,  and 
over  that  lay  a  thick  covering  of  bread-crumbs  mixed  with  a  little  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Let  them  stand  in  a  quick  oven  for  ten  minutes  and 
then  they  are  done.  Mrs.  Pamelia  Montfort. 

CREAM  TOAST  MADE  OF  BROWN  BREAD. 

Toast  to  a  golden  brown  one-half  of  a  dozen  or  more  slices  of  entire 
wheat  or  graham  bread  and  dip  into  a  sauce  made  as  follows:  One  pint 
of  cream  and  milk  mixed,  a  lump  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  into 
a  granite  pan  and  let  come  to  a  boil  but  not  boil.  Now  stir  in  a  little 
flour  first  stirred  to  a  cream  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  when  it  boils  drop 
in  the  toast,  one  piece  at  a  time.  Let  it  simmer  a  couple  of  moments  and 
it  is  ready  to  serve.  C.  A.  D. 

LEMON  TOAST. 

Slice  bread  and  dip  it  into  milk  a  cupful  of  which  has  been  beaten  up 
with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Fry  the  bread  a  light  brown.  Take  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  to  a  froth,  add  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  the 
juice  of  one-half  of  a  large  lemon  and  a  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Pour 
over  the  toast  and  serve.  Mrs.  M.  Chandler. 

CODFISH  TOAST. 

Pick  up  a  small  quantity  of  freshened  codfish.  Slice  an  onion  and  fry 
in  an  ounce  of  butter.  Then  add  the  fish  with  water  to  cover.  Slice  three 
fresh  tomatoes  and  add  to  the  mixture  cooking  the  whole  one-half  to 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  adding  a  very  little  cayenne.  Pour  it  over  but- 
tered toast.  Mrs.  Mary  Goodrich. 


TOAST.  171 

FRENCH  TOAST. 

Beat  two  eggs,  salt  and  a  cupful  of  milk  and  dip  thin  slices  of  bread 
into  this,  and  then  plunge  into  hot  butter;  fry  to  a  golden  brown  and 
serve  hot.  Mrs.  P.  LaPointe. 

TOAST— A  LA  DUCHESSE. 

Beat  one  ^gg,  a  coffee-cupful  of  milk  and  a  little  salt  and  sugar 
together.  Soak  stale  bread  in  this,  and  put  on  a  gridiron  or  toaster,  and 
brown  both  sides.     Butter  the  slices  and  serve  with  jelly. 

Mrs.  Catherine  Kenney. 

TOASTED  ENGLISH  MUFFINS. 

Open  the  sides  of  the  muffin,  exactly  in  the  middle,  for  one-half  of  an 
inch.  Insert  the  toasting-fork  and  toast  it  lightly.  Then  pull  it  apart, 
lay  butter  on  each  one-half  and  close  the  muffin.  Put  it  on  a  hot  plate. 
If  more  than  one  is  needed,  lay  the  rest  on  top,  but  it  is  better  not  to 
toast  more  than  two  at  a  time  as  they  are  nicer  hot.  These  are  fine 
served  with  maple  syrup.  Mrs.  F.  Evans. 

DEVILED  TOAST. 

Use  whole  wheat  or  brown  bread  one  day  old  or  over,  cut  in  thin 
slices  and  toast  slowly  until  a  golden  brown.  Spread  with  butter  to  each 
tablespoonful  of  which  has  been  added  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
dry  mustard,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika  and  eight  drops  of 
onion  juice.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  grated  cheese  and  set  in  a  hot  oven 
for  three  minutes.  Mrs.  Edmonds. 

APPLE  TOAST. 

Peel,  core  and  quarter  one-half  dozen  apples,  and  cut  them  in  slices; 
put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^gg  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  apples  and 
throw  over  them  five  small  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  two  of 
water.  Stew  quickly.  Fry  slices  of  bread  a  nice  yellow  color  in  a  little 
butter,  place  on  a  dish,  cover  with  a  little  sugar  and  the  apples.  Serve 
hot.  L.  J.  E. 

ANCHOVY  TOAST. 

Make  nicely  browned  toast,  two  inches  wide  and  four  inches  long. 
Spread  with  anchovy  butter  while  hot.  Set  a  moment  in  the  oven  and 
serve  at  once.  D.  A.  V. 


172  TOAST. 

SALHON  TOAST. 

Cut  slices  of*  bread,  trim  off  the  crusts,  and  toast  to  a  golden  brown; 
butter  and  lay  on  each  slice  a  very  thin  slice  of  smoked  salmon;  sprinkle 
with  pepper,  lay  over  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven 
for  five  minutes.     Serve  hot  for  breakfast  or  luncheon.  H.  J.  L. 

CAVIAR  ON  TOAST. 

Caviar  is  not  liked  by  everyone  but  is  becoming  quite  a  fashionable 
dish.  Buy  it  in  cans  of  the  grocer.  Prepare  as  many  slices  of  toast  of 
white  bread  as  desired;  place  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoonfuls  of  caviar 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  cream,  heat  for  two  minutes,  stirring  carefully. 
Pour  this  mixture  over  the  toast  and  serve  hot. 

BEEF  MARROW  ON  TOAST. 

This  is  a  strengthening  dish.  Put  some  pieces  of  marrow  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  well-salted  boiling  water  and  let  them  remain  for  one  minute. 
Drain  off  the  water;  take  out  the  marrow,  spread  it  on  some  pieces  of 
toasted  bread,  place  in  the  oven,  and  cook  for  six  minutes.  Sprinkle 
over  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  hot. 

STUFFED  ROLLS. 

Procure  some  small  fresh  rolls,  long  in  shape.  Cut  in  two  lengthwise, 
scoop  out  most  of  the  soft  part.  Mix  well  one  teaspoonful  butter,  one 
dessertspoon  potted  ham,  half  a  hard-boiled  egg  chopped  fine,  one  radish 
sliced  thin,  two  leaves  lettuce  cut  up  small.  Spread  this  on  both  sides  of 
rolls  and  close  them.     Serve  on  a  napkin.  Mrs.  George  Campbell. 


SANDWICHES  are  the  sole  dependence  of  the  picnicker.  They  are 
also  much  used  at  luncheons,  afternoon  teas,  etc.  When  nicely 
made  they  are  very  appetizing.  White,  graham,  brown  bread,  or  rolls,  may 
be  converted  into  sandwiches,  and  each  according  to  the  individual  taste. 
There  is  no  limit  to  theii^  filling,  for  eggs,  meat,  fowl,  fruit,  fish,  salads, 
jams  and  chopped  nuts  are  all  pressed  into  service.  Their  shape  can  be 
varied;  they  may  be  cut  in  circles,  or  rolled  like  omelets,  but  the  most 
common  form  is  the  square  or  triangular. 

The  materials  used  in  a  sandwich  should  be  minced  or  sliced  as  fine 
as  possible  so  that  they  may  be  eaten  with  little  trouble,  and  the  season- 
ing should  be  added  to  the  filling.  Butter  should  be  of  the  finest  quality, 
and  spread  so  smoothly  that  it  will  not  flake  off  when  the  sandwich  is 
handled.  Graham,  rye,  or  brown  bread  is  very  tender  and  nutritious, 
and  many  prefer  them  to  the  white.  A  square  loaf  cuts  up  nicely.  But 
no  sandwich  should  have  the  crust  left  on,  and  the  slices  composing  it 
should  be  thin  and  of  equal  size. 

When  fish  is  used  it  should  be  pounded  to  a  paste  and  mixed  with 
another  paste  made  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  cream,  and  butter,  seasoned. 

LETTUCE  SANDWICHES. 

Sprinkle  fresh  crisp  lettuce  leaves  with  a  little  salt  and  lay  them  a  few 

moments  in  a  folded  napkin,  then  lay  them  between  slices  of  bread  that 

have  been  buttered.     Spread  over  a  dressing  of  Mayonnaise  or  not,  as 

preferred.  Mrs.  L.  Kay. 

OLIVE  SANDWICHES. 

Stone  and  chop  olives  and  mix  with  Mayonnaise.     Butter  the  bread, 

which  must  be  cut  very  thin.     Either  white  or  brown  bread  may  be  used. 

A  Western  Girl. 
BAKED  BEAN  SANDWICHES. 

Beat  one-half  of  a  cup  of  baked  beans  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  one- 
half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  celery,  one-quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion  juice  and  made  mustard  enough  to  just  cover  the  end  of 
a  teaspoon.     Spread  between  slices  of  graham  or  rye  bread. 

Mrs.  Cornie  Lawson. 
173 


174  SANDWICHES  AND   CANAPES. 

•♦RAHONA"  SANDWICHES. 

These  are  fancy  bits  used  at  a  company  luncheon  in  honor  of  Helen 
Hunt  Jackson's  pretty  Indian  story  and  are  well  worth  the  trouble  of 
making.  Chop  about  equal  quantities  of  figs,  dates,  raisins,  citron  or  any 
candied  fruits  and  a  tiny  bit  of  candied  peel.  Place  lightly  in  a  square  or 
round  mold  the  shape  of  the  sandwiches  and  pour  over  it  crab-apple  jelly. 
Move  a  fork  gently  through  the  mass  to  be  sure  the  jelly  settles  all 
around  the  fruit.  Set  the  mold  in  a  cold  place  until  firm;  then  turn  out 
and  cut  off  in  thin  slices.  Serve  on  thin  bits  of  New  England  brown  bread 
very  lightly  buttered.  California  Girl's  Favorite. 

TURTLE  SANDWICHES  (FOR  HALLOWEEN  AND  CHILDREN'S  PARTIES). 

Cut  as  many  thin  slices  of  brown  and  white  bread  as  are  desired  for 
sandwiches,  trim  off  the  crust  and  shape  into  three  and  one-half  inch 
squares.  Butter  lightly  and  spread  carefully  between  two  slices  any  fill- 
ing desired — meat,  cheese,  nut  or  fruit.  Now  slice  lengthwise  into  halves 
some  small  cucumber  pickles  (sweet  or  sour),  and  stick  one  of  these  in 
each  corner  of  the  sandwich  for  the  feet  of  the  turtle,  and  a  tiny  one  for 
the  tail.  Run  a  toothpick  through  a  narrow  and  short  piece  of  bread  and 
stick  it  in  the  opposite  end  of  the  sandwich  from  the  tail.  On  the  end  of 
the  toothpick  put  a  thin  piece  of  a  small  carrot  cut  crosswise.  Behold! 
you  have  the  turtle.  Serve  singly  on  individual  plates  with  olives  made 
after  the  fashion  of  Natural  History  Objects.  Mrs.  A.  E.  Fowler. 

EQQ  SANDWICHES. 

Pound  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  a  small  quantity  of  butter  in  a  mortar 

and  add  cheese,  also  well  pounded.     Make  into  sandwiches. 

Jane  Hall. 
EGG  SANDWICHES— No.  2. 

Boil  six  eggs  ten  minutes,  throw  them  into  cold  water,  take  off  the 
shells  and  cut  them  into  slices;  prepare  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter, 
place  the  eggs  between;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  dry  mustard; 
trim  and  cut  the  sandwiches.  Mrs.  Fuller. 

BOSTON  GIRL'S  SANDWICH. 

One  slice  each  of  white  and  brown  bread,  cut  thin  and  buttered, 
spread  well  with  mashed  Boston-baked  beans,  thinly  strewn  with  finely- 
chopped  mustard  pickles,  or  salted  water  cress  or  the  petals  of  nasturtium 
flowers.  A.  F.  P. 


SANDWICHES  AND   CANAPES.  175 

JAM  SANDWICHES. 

Mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  very  smoothly  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  ground  rice,  add  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  sugar,  one-half  of  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  one-quarter  of  a  pint 
of  new  milk.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  firm  froth,  add  them  last 
of  all,  and  beat  the  mixture  for  four  or  five  minutes.  Butter  two  large 
plates,  put  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  it  is  set  and 
lightly  browned.  Spread  jam  over  one  of  the  cakes  and  lay  the  other 
upon  it,  the  browned  part  uppermost.  Sift  sugar  over  it  before  serving. 
Jam  sandwiches  are  eaten  either  hot  or  cold.  Mrs.  Tessie  Dunn. 

GAME  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  the  meat  in  very  thin  slices  from  partridges,  grouse  or  any  game 
that  has  been  roasted  and  shred  some  celery.  Lay  the  meat  on  delicately 
thin  fresh  toast — it  should  be  crisp,  and  not  tough — strew  celery  over  and 
season  well  with  tartar  sauce.  Mrs.  Frances  Leeds. 

GERMAN  SANDWICHES. 

Use  graham  or  rye  bread.  Butter  plentifully  and  put  mustard  on  it. 
Then  add  a  layer  of  chopped  olives  over  and  one  of  cottage  cheese  last. 

Mrs.  James  Graham. 
HOT  BEEF  SANDWICHES. 

Bruise  and  scrape  raw  beef.  Spread  it  between  two  slices  of 
bread,  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  the  whole  on  a  griddle;  heat 
thoroughly  over  live  coals,  or  take  slices  of  hot  roast  beef  and  lay  between 
slices  of  bread  and  dip  over  a  spoonful  of  gravy.         Mrs.  May  Nelson. 

BEEF  AND  POTATO  SANDWICHES. 

Fry  slices  of  cold  corned-beef  very  lightly  and  spread  on  each  side  a 
heavy  layer  of  mashed  potatoes,  press  it  down  on  the  meat  with  a  knife. 
Dip  the  whole  in  ^gg  and  bread-crumbs,  fry  them  in  drippings  a  very 
light  brown  and  serve  hot.  Mrs.  Caroline  Dill. 

DUCK  SANDWICHES. 

These  must  be  made  of  the  smoked  breasts  of  ducks  cut  in  very  thin 
slices.  Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  into  thin  rings,  lay  over  the  duck,  squeeze  a 
little  lemon  juice  over  them,  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  cover  them 
with  well-buttered  slices  of  bread  and  butter.  Mrs.  C.  Choate. 


170  SANDWICHES  AND   CANAPES. 

CHICKEN  AND  HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Mince  cold  chicken  and  add  a  little  minced  cold  ham.  Stir  In  a  cup 
of  boiling  gravy.  Set  the  whole  before  the  fire  for  a  few  moments.  Cut 
slices  of  old  bread  with  a  round  tin  cutter  and  fry  them.  Spread  a  layer 
of  the  fowl  and  ham  between  two  of  them,  add  a  small  piece  of  cheese 
and  butter  made  into  a  paste.  Run  the  sandwiches  in  the  oven,  which 
should  be  pretty  hot,  for  five  minutes.  Serve  them  hot  on  a  folded  napkin 
at  tea-time.  Mrs.  Connie  Larkin. 

DATE  SANDWICHES. 

Take  some  fine  Turkish  dates,  and  mince  them  fine.  Add  a  little 
water,  cooking  them  in  a  double  boiler  till  they  are  soft  and  past}-.  Add 
a  little  lemon  juice,  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful.  Cool  the  dates  and  spread 
on  thinl}^  cut  bread.  Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  hickory  nuts,  and 
cover  with  buttered  bread.  Mrs.  Mary  Lennan. 

HICKORY  NUT  AND  BANANA  SANDWICHES. 

To  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  chopped  hickory-nut  meats  add  about  two 
bananas  sliced.  The  banana  must  be  firm  and  not  over  ripe.  Spread 
between  thin  slices  of  brown  bread.     Delicious.  Mrs.  R.  A.  Brown. 

ANNIVERSARY  OR  VALENTINE  SANDWICHES. 

Have  white  and  brown  bread  one  day  old.  Prepare  by  spreading 
the  end  of  the  loaf  with  soft  butter  or  mayonnaise  dressing  and  cutting  off 
in  thin  wafer-like  slices  until  the  requisite  amount  has  been  cut.  Then 
with  a  heart-shaped  cooky-cutter  cut  from  each  slice  of  brown  bread,  a 
generous  heart  and  from  each  white  slice  a  diamond-shaped  piece.  Have 
read}'  some  pounded  nuts  and  any  two  kinds  of  filling  that  you  prefer. 
On  a  slice  of  the  spread  brown  bread  put  athinlaj^er  of  one  kind  of  filling, 
cover  with  a  slice  of  the  brown  bread.  Use  the  other  kind  of  filling  on 
the  white  bread  and  cover  with  the  white  bread.  Prepare  a  number  in 
this  way,  then  reverse  the  order.  J.  T.  G. 

APPLE  AND  CELERY  SANDWICHES. 

Peel  and  chop  very  fine  two  large,  tart  apples  and  one-half  of  a  dozen 
of  the  small  inside  stalks  of  celery;  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt;  spread 
between  thinly  cut  slices  of  buttered  brown  bread.  Julia  Brown. 

4 


SANDWICHES  AND   CANAPES. 


NUT  SANDWICHES. 


Chop  equal  quantities  of  pecan  meats  and  sour  apples.  Spread 
between  two  slices  of  thin,  buttered  bread.  Spread  lightly  with  mayon- 
naise.    Very  appetizing.  Amy  Smith. 

WELSH  RAREBIT  SANDWICHES. 

Take  mild  cheese  and  put  it  into  a  mortar  with  two  ounces  of  butter, 
a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  pound  well  and  dilute  with  good  cider  vinegar. 
Spread  the  mixture  between  slices  of  bread.  Mrs.  F.  Holly. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  SANDWICHES. 

Prepare  chicken  salad  (see  recipe  for  chicken  salad).  Cut  slices  of 
bread  very  thin,  remove  crusts,  spread  very  thinly  with  the  salad  and  press 
together.  Jane. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD  SANDWICHES. 

Very  nice  to  serve  with  fish  course  for  dinner.  Slice  cucumbers  very 
thin,  put  on  them  a  dressing  of  olive  oil,  lemon,  salt  and  a  dash  of  red 
pepper.  Let  stand  one  hour;  lay  between  thin  small  squares  of  white 
bread.     Serve  at  once.  Mrs.  F.  Jones. 

FISH  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  bread  and  butter  as  for  other  sandwiches,  place  thin  scallops  of 
any  fish  on  the  slices,  and  instead  of  mustard  use  tartar  sailce.  Put  a 
layer  of  finely-sliced  lettuce  on  the  top  of  the  sauce,  and  cover  with  bread 
and  butter.  Serve  cut  into  squares.  Thin  slices  of  harb-boiled  eggs  may 
be  added.  M.  T.  Thomas. 

HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Slice  ham  very  thin,  slightly  butter  bread  and  put  a  slice  of  ham 
between.     Lettuce  leaf  put  on  top  of  ham  is  an  improvement. 

Juliette. 

CLUB  HOUSE  SANDWICHES. 

(Excellent.) 

Toast  thin  slices  of  brown  or  white  bread;  butter  lightly  and  layover 
thin  slices  of  crisp  fried  bacon.  Lay  on  another  thin  slice  of  toast  then 
thin  slices  of  chicken  well  seasoned,  another  slice  of  buttered  toast  and 
then  a  thin  layer  of  cucumber  pickle  sliced  crosswise.  On  top  of  this  put 
another  slice  of  buttered  toast,  and  you  have  a  sandwich  fit  for  a  prince. 

GuNTHERS,  Chicago. 


178  SANDWICHES  AND   CANAPES. 

SARDINE  CANAPES. 

Take  sardines,  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  little  but- 
ter, mustard,  pepper,  and  vinegar,  slices  of  toast.  Cut  some  slices  off  a 
roll  neatly  into  oval  or  octagon  shapes.  Toast  slightly,  or  fry  in  oil  or 
butter  till  they  are  of  a  nice  yellow  color.  Strip  the  sardines  of  the  bones: 
lay  one-half  of  them  aside,  and  pound  the  other  to  a  smooth  paste  with 
the  eggs  and  butter.  Add  the  mustard,  pepper  and  vinegar.  When 
these  ingredients  are  well  mixed,  spread  the  paste  over  the  prepared 
slices  of  toast.  On  the  top  lay  the  other  one-half  of  the  sardines,  cut 
into  small  strips,  stand  them  in  the  oven  and  serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  M.  Waters. 

PLAIN  CANAPES. 

Toast  thin  slices  of  bread  from  which  the  crust  has  been  removed, 
and  butter  them  a  very  little.  Either  potted  meat  or  fish  can  be  spread 
over  them.  The  grated  cheese  that  comes  in  little  jars  makes  nice  ones. 
Place  two  slices  together  and  cut  into  strips  before  bringing  to  the  table. 

Mrs.  Herman. 

JEFFERSON  CANAPES. 

Trim  three  slices  of  bread  evenly,  toast  a  light  brown  and  lay  them  on 
a  platter.  Slice  lean  cooked  ham  thin  with  a  little  mustard  on  it  and  place 
on  each  slice  also  a  layer  of  cooked  mushrooms  and  tomatoes.  Dredge 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  on  top,  and  strew  fresh  bread-crumbs  over  the 
whole.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Lay  on  a  heated  dish,  cover 
with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve.  Mrs.  J.  L.  Walters. 

OYSTER  CANAPES. 

Select  one-half  dozen  large  oysters  and  chop  them  quite  fine.  To 
their  bulk  add  a  teaspoonful  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  a  piece  of  butter  as 
big  as  a  walnut  and  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  very  thick  cream.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Let  it  simmer  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes.  Butter 
some  slices  of  bread  one-eight  of  an  inch  in  thickness  and  lay  them  on  a 
hot  dish.     Pour  the  mixture  over  the  bread  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Frederic  Monteith. 


THERE  are  but  few  housewives  who  consider  a  dinner  complete 
to-day  without  cheese  of  some  kind  in  some  form. 

Many  kinds,  however,  are  considered  a  luxury  even  by  the  well-to-do, 
owing  to  the  fact  that  they  are  made  across  the  water  and  duty  on  them 
is  high.  Americans  have  tried  to  imitate  the  making  of  native  European 
cheese  and  in  some  instances  have  succeeded,  but  in  others  have  failed. 

The  monopoly  of  the  trade  on  the  Roquefort  cheese,  is  still  retained 
by  France.  This  cheese  comes  from  the  town  of  the  same  name,  south- 
west of  Paris.  It  is  made  from  cow's  milk  and  the  little  green  specks  in  it 
are  merely  coarse  crumbled  bread  which  the  peasants  throw  in  when  mak- 
ing the  cheese.  After  the  cheese  is  made  it  is  carried  to  cellars  regularly 
prepared  where  it  is  left  to  cure. 

Brie  cheese  originally  came  from  the  town  of  Brie,  north  of  Paris. 
It,  too,  is  made  of  cow's  milk.  Unlike  the  Roquefort,  however,  it  has  been 
successfully  imitated  in  America.  At  the  present  time  very  little  is 
imported  from  France.  The  Limburger  cheese  which  was  once  manufac- 
tured abroad  is  to-day  made  very  successfully  in  this  country.  The  Edan 
cheese  is  still  brought  to  this  country  in  large  quantities.  So  far,  Ameri- 
cans have  never  been  able  to  imitate  the  Hollanders  in  making  it.  The 
Parmesan  cheese,  so  much  desired  by  French  chefs,  is  made  only  in  Italy. 
Sago  cheese,  made  from  the  milk  of  goats,  is  manufactured  in  Switzer- 
land. The  cheese  mostly  made  in  America  is  that  known  as  English 
cheese.  Americans  have  quite  solved  the  method  of  making  it  to  perfec- 
tion. To-day  more  of  our  cheese  is  exported  to  England  than  has  ever 
been  imported  from  that  country  to  America. 


HOW  TO  KEEP  CHEESE  MOIST. 

Cheese  dries  very  fast  and  soon  becomes  too  hard  for  the  table. 
Anything  that  excludes  the  air  will  prevent  its  drying.  Keeping  it  under 
glass  is  a  good  method,  but  an  easier  and  surer  one  is  to  take  cheese-cloth, 

179 


180  CHEESE  AND   CHEESE  DISHES. 

dip  it  in  white  wine,  squeeze  it  nearly  dry  and  wrap  the  cheese  in  it.  It 
does  not  impair  its  flavor  in  the  least.  When  cheese  becomes  very  hard,  it 
is  fine  for  macaroni,  as  it  can  be  grated  easier. 

CREAM  CHEESE. 

Put  five  quarts  of  the  last  milking  of  a  cow,  called  strippings,  in  a 
granite  pan  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  rennet.  When  the  curd  comes 
strike  it  down  with  the  skimmer  to  break  it.  Let  it  stand  two  hours;  spread 
a  cheese  cloth  on  a  sieve  and  drain  upon  it;  salt  and  break  the  curd  a  little 
with  the  hand;  put  it  into  a  press  with  a  two-pound  weight  upon  it.  After 
standing  twelve  hours,  bind  a  linen  cheese-cloth  round.  Turn  every  day 
till  dry;  rubbing  the  outside  with  butter  and  let  gradually  ripen. 

Domestic  Cheese  Maker. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE. 

When  the  milk  which  has  been  left  over  sours  so  as  to  be  clabbered, 
place  it  in  a  tin  pan  and  set  it  over  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Heat  it  very 
slowly,  so  that  the  whey  may  become  separated  from  the  curd.  If  it  boils, 
the  curd  will  be  tough.  Strain  it  through  a  cloth,  and  press  out  the  whey. 
Stir  in  a  little  butter,  cream  and  salt  till  it  is  moist  enough.  Work  it  well 
with  a  spoon  till  it  is  smooth,  then  make  it  into  little  pats  for  the  table. 

E.  S.  A. 
CHEESE  OMELET. 

Beat  one  ^^%  a  little,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cheese  grated  fine,  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  another  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  add  the  mixture  and  cook  until  dry.  Do  not  stir  it. 
Roll  the  omelet,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.  B.  A.  Thwing. 

CHEESE  OMELET— No.  2. 

Three  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  one 
ounce  of  butter.  Beat  the  eggs  well  and  stir  the  cheese  into  them;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  mustard.  Melt  the  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  and 
when  hot  pour  in  the  mixture.     Proceed  as  in  plain  omelet. 

Mary  Renno. 
FROMAGE,  DRESSED. 

Moisten  eight  or  ten  ounces  of  good  cheese,  broken  into  small  bits, 
with  one-half  of  a  pint  of  thick  cream.  Rub  it  smooth  in  a  mortar  and 
add  two  eggs,  with  the  white  of  one,  both  beaten  together,  and  a  pinch  of 
cayenne.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  A,  C.  M. 


CHEESE  AND  CHEESE  DISHES.  181 

TOASTED  CHEESE. 

Melt  one-half  of  a  pint  of  grated  cheese  very  gradually  in  a  gill  of 
sweet  cream  over  the  fire  and  as  soon  as  it  is  hot  remove,  and  stir  in  the 
yolk  of  one  ^^^  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  and  a 
little  pepper.  Toast  small  squares  of  bread  and  butter  them.  Lay  the 
slices  on  a  platter  over  a  dish  of  hot  water,  spread  the  cheese  over  the 
toast,  and  serve  soon,  or  the  cheese  will  grow  tough. 

Mrs.  Mariette  Purvie. 

NEUFCHATEL  CHEESE. 

Have  one  Neufchatel  cheese,  one  teacupful  ot  sugar,  grate  a  lemon 
rind  and  use  with  it  one-half  of  the  juice,  one-half  of  a  teacupful  each  of 
rolled  cracker  crumbs  and  currants,  four  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  one-half  of  a  nutmeg 
grated  and  one  salt-spoonful  of  salt.  Mix  the  cracker  crumbs  dry  with 
the  cheese,  first  removing  the  wrapper  and  taking  off  the  thin  skin  on  the 
outside  of  the  cheese;  crumble  the  cheese  and  cracker  crumbs  well 
together,  beat  eggs  well  with  the  sugar  and  add,  following  with  the  butter 
and  cream.  If  the  cream  is  very  rich  the  butter  may  be  omitted.  Put  in 
lemon,  nutmeg  and  currants.  Mix  all  well  together  and  put  into  well- 
buttered  patty  pans  lined  with  puff  paste.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven.     They  will  puff  up,  but  must  not  be  permitted  to  get  too  brown. 

Mrs.  Serah  Chichester. 

CHEESE  PUDDING. 

In  a  cup  of  new  milk  dissolve  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
and  pour  over  a  tablespoonful  of  bread-crumbs;  let  it  soak,  then  add  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  one-half  of  a  pound  of  finely-grated  cheese.  Pour 
the  mixture  into  a  well-buttered  mold  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve 
as  hot  as  possible.  E.  J.  A. 

RAHEQUINS  OF  CHEESE  PASTRY. 

When  there  is  a  puff  paste  left  after  making  pies  and  tarts  roll  it  out 
lightly,  and  sprinkle  over  it  grated  cheese.  Fold  the  paste  in  three,  and 
sprinkle  every  fold  with  the  cheese.  Cut  shapes  out  with  an  ordinary 
pastry-cutter,  brush  them  over  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  ^^"g,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  W.  T.  M. 


182  CHEESE  AND   CHEESE  DISHES. 

MELTED  CHEESE. 

Grate  one-half  of  a  pound  of  good  creamery  cheese,  add  five  eggs  and 
one-half  of  this  quantity  of  butter,  and  stir  all  together  over  a  moderate 
fire,  till  the  eggs  are  set.  Slice  bread  and  toast  it  brown,  Eat  with  the 
cheese,  which  must  be  served  very  hot,  Mrs.  Ida  Gregg. 

ESCALLOPED  CHEESE. 

One  cupful  of  cheese,  chopped  fine,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one  cupful 
of  milk,  one  cupful  of  cracker  crumbs,  one-half  of  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt. 
Stir  well  together,  turn  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Marion  Miller. 

CHEESE  FONDU. 

Boil  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk  and  stir  into  it  till  melted  one  ounce 
of  butter.  Pour  it  upon  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  fine  bread-crumbs. 
Soak  a  few  minutes,  add  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  grated  cheese,  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  little  salt.  Butter  a  souffle  tin,  and  tie  round  it, 
to  make  the  sides  higher,  a  band  of  buttered  paper.  Just  before  putting 
the  souffle  into  the  oven,  dash  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs  which  have  been 
whisked  to  a  firm  froth.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  the  center  is  firm,  and 
serve,  Mrs.  Scoville. 

CHEESE  FONDU— No.  2. 

The  ingredients  are  one-quarterof  a  pound  of  grated  cheese,  two  eggs, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  vermicelli,  one-half  pint 
of  milk,  one-half  teacupful  of  bread-crumbs.  Boil  the  vermicelli  in  the 
milk  and  pour  over  the  bread-crumbs  in  a  pie  dish.  Melt  the  butter  and 
stir  it  in.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  with  salt  and  pepper  the  vermicelli  and 
cheese,  beating  briskly  the  whole  time.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  one-half  hour.     Serve  at  once. 

Fannie  Laughlin. 

CHEESE  CANAPES. 

Cut  a  stale  loaf  of  bread  into  slices  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 
Divide  these  into  pieces  two  inches  long,  and  one  inch  wide,  and  fry  them 
in  hot  butter  or  oil  till  they  are  a  bright  golden  color.  Spread  mustard 
thinly  on  each  piece,  lay  over  that  some  cheese,  and  put  in  a  quick  oven 
until  the  cheese  is  dissolved.     Serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

Mrs.  Fanny  Bell. 


CHEESE  AND   CHEESE  DISHES.  183 

POTATO  CHEESE-CAKES. 

Grate  the  thin  rind  of  two  lemons,  pound  them  well  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  finely-sifted  sugar  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  potato  which 
has  been  boiled  until  it  has  become  floury.  Stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
clarified  butter  and  when  smooth  add  the  yolks  of  two  and  the  white  of 
one  Qgg.  Line  tart  tins  with  a  light  crust,  rather  more  than  one-half  fill 
them,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  It  takes  about  twenty  minutes  to  do 
them.  Mrs.  Fronie  Evans. 

LEMON  CHEESE=CAKES. 

One  ounce  of  butter,  the  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar,  a  well-whipped  &gg.  Mix  well  and  place  on  back  of  stove 
to  get  thoroughly  heated,  but  not  boil.  Then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  grated 
cheese  to  each  quantity  placed  in  patty  pans,  and  bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  S.  Thwait. 

PLAIN  CHEESE=CAKES. 

Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk  and  boil  to  a  paste. 
When  cool  add  one-half  of  a  pound  of  grated  cheese,  four  eggs,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  salt,  and 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  dried  currants  that  have  been  washed  and 
drained.  Mrs.  A.  Hill. 

GROUND  RICE  CHEESE=CAKES. 

Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  rice  smoothly  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  milk  and  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Stir  the  mixture 
three  or  four  minutes  till  thick,  adding  an  ounce  of  butter  and  four  large 
lumps  of  sugar,  which  have  been  well  rubbed  on  the  rind  of  a  fresh 
lemon.  When  cold,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Line  some  patty  pans  with  a  puff  paste, 
three-parts  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  The  cheese- 
cakes may  be  dusted  over  with  powdered  cinnamon  or  grated  lemon  rind 
before  being  baked.  F.  E.  P. 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  cheese  in  slices  about  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and  lay 
between  slices  of  bread  that  are  well  buttered.  The  cheese  can  be  grated 
and  used  in  the  same  way,  but  in  the  latter  case,  it  must  be  rubbed  to  a 
paste  with  butter.  H.  F.  L. 


184  CHEESE  AND   CHEESE  DISHES. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

Mix  two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  two  ounces  of  fresh  but- 
ter, two  ounces  of  flour,  an  ounce  of  creamery  cheese,  and  the  yolk  of  an 
^gg  into  a  stiff  paste.  Flavor  the  mixture  with  cayenne,  salt  and  a  little 
pounded  mace.  Roll  this  out  thin,  cut  it  into  fingers  about  four  inches 
long  and  one-half  of  an  inch  wide,  bake  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven  and  serve  cold.  They  should  be  piled  on  a  dish  in  transverse  rows. 
Nice  for  luncheons.  Jane  Hathaway. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Have  ready  one  pound  of  rich  cheese,  grated.  Rub  the  bottom  of  a 
dish  with  a  piece  of  onion.  Put  in  the  cheese,  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
tomato  catsup,  one  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one-half  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  four  shakes  of  cayenne  pepper  and  two  level  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  melt,  then  add  gradually  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  ale  or  beer.  When  it  is  soft,  smooth  and  creamy,  pour 
it  over  toasted  bread  or  toasted  crackers.  E.  D.  Wells. 

MORNING  RELISH. 

Take  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  cheese,  put  it  in  a  pan  with  a 
cup  of  milk  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Then  add  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  a  dash  of  pepper,  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Roll  three  soda  crackers  fine,  stir  briskly  a  few  min- 
utes and  turn  into  a  heated  dish.  Nancy  Crowell. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 

Four  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  cheese,  one-quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter.  Grate  the  cheese  and  beat  it  well  with  the  butter  and  j^olks  of 
the  eggs.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Whisk  the  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  stir  in  lightly.     Bake  in  a  deep  dish  for  one-half  hour. 

Mrs.  Susie  Knight. 
CHEESE  CUSTARDS. 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  four 
eggs,  one  cup  of  milk  with  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  stirred  into  it,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light  and  pour  upon  them  the 
heated  milk  (with  a  pinch  of  soda),  having  thickened  with  the  corn-starch. 
Wh'le  warm  add  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  cheese.  Beat  well  and  pour  into 
g**eased  custard  cups.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  fifteen  minutes  or 
until  high  and  brown.  Serve  at  once,  as  a  separate  course,  with  bread 
and  butter,  after  soup  or  before  dessert.  C.  A.  R. 


CHEESE  AND   CHEESE  DISHES.  185 

CHEESE  NEUVEAU. 

Pieces  of  bread  should  be  cut  as  if  for  the  table,  thinly  buttered,  and 
placed  in  a  frying-pan.  Sprinkle  salt  very  lightly  over  them  and  add  a 
thick  layer  of  grated  cheese.  Then  another  layer  of  bread  and  salted 
cheese,  and  when  the  pan  is  full  pour  over  a  cup  of  good,  rich  milk. 
Cover  closely  and  stand  on  the  side  of  the  stove  where  it  will  steam  slowly 
for  twenty  minutes  or  one-half  of  an  hour.  Turn  on  a  hot  platter  and 
serve  at  once.  This  is  an  excellent  luncheon  dish  and  deserves  to  become 
popular.  B.  O.  C. 

BAKED  CHEESE. 

(Relish.) 

Take  one-half  of  a  pound  of  cheese,  nine  snow-flake  crackers  (pulver- 
ized) and  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Put  the  butter  into 
a  baking-pan,  then  sprinkle  one  layer  of  crackers  and  one  layer  of  grated 
cheese.  Over  this  sprinkle  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt 
and  pepper.  Continue  the  process  with  a  layer  of  each  (except  butter, 
salt  and  pepper)  until  it  is  one  and  one-half  inches  thick;  then  add  enough 
sweet  milk  to  wet.  Put  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  sufficiently  dry  to  cut 
in  blocks  two  and  one-half  inches  square.     Serve  hot  on  toast. 

Nannie  Jones. 

SLIP. 

Slip  is  bonny-clabber,  without  its  acidity,  and  so  delicate  is  its  flavor 
that  many  like  it  as  well  as  ice-cream.  Prepare  it  thus:  Make  one  quart 
of  milk  moderately  warm,  stir  into  it  one  dessert-spoonful  of  the  prepara- 
tion called  rennet;  set  it  away  to  cool;  it  will  be  then  as  stiff  as  jelly; 
make  it  only  a  few  hours  before  using  or  it  will  be  tough  and  watery; 
when  possible  set  dish  on  ice  after  it  has  jellied.  Serve  with  powdered 
sugar,  nutmeg  and  cream.  Prudence  M.  S. 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE. 

Take  one-half  of  a  package  of  macaroni,  break  into  pieces  two  inches 
in  length.  Simmer  twenty  minutes  in  plenty  of  salted  water.  Drain, 
then  put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking-dish,  then  upon  this 
put  a  thin  layer  of  grated  cheese  and  bits  of  butter,  then  another  layer  of 
macaroni  and  so  on  till  dish  is  full,  leaving  the  cheese  layer  on  top; 
sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  cupful  of  cream  or 
milk  and  bake  a  golden  brown.  A.  M.  P. 


186  CHEESE  AND   CHEESE  DISEIES. 

CHEESE. 

(German.) 

Three  quarts  milk,  salt,  caraway  seed. 

The  milk  must  be  fresh  and  rich.  Put  each  quart  in  a  separate  dish; 
after  it  has  thickened  remove  the  cream  and  prepare  it  as  for  cottage 
cheese,  drain  it  well  to  separate  it  from  all  the  whey.  When  this  is  done 
take  a  granite  colander,  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  salt  and  caraway  seed, 
on  this  put  a  layer  of  curds  (one  quart),  next  one  of  cream,  again  salt  and 
caraway  seed  and  one  of  curds  until  all  is  used  up.  The  last  layer  must 
be  of  curds;  let  it  stand  two  or  three  days,  then  turn  out  and  serve. 

Fraulein. 
MOTHER'S  CREAM  CHEESE. 

Scald  the  quantity  of  milk  desired,  let  cool  a  trifle,  then  add  the  ren- 
net (see  directions  on  the  packages  of  "Prepared  Rennet").  When  the 
curd  is  formed  take  out  without  breaking  and  lay  on  a  cheese-cloth 
supported  on  all  sides  so  that  it  will  drain;  and  then  put  it  under  a 
light  press  for  one  hour;  now  break  the  curd  gently  with  the  fingers 
into  small  pieces,  put  in  a  cloth  and  press  for  an  hour;  take  out,  rub  with 
fine  salt,  let  lie  on  a  board  for  an  hour,  and  wash  in  cold  water;  then 
let  drain,  and  in  a  day  or  two  the  skin  will  look  dry;  put  some  sweet  grass 
under  and  over  and  it  will  soon  ripen.  E.  M.  C. 

CHICAGO  CHEESE  STRAWS. 

Roll  some  puff  paste  very  thin,  sprinkle  over  with  grated  cheese,  fold, 
roll  out,  and  sprinkle  again;  then  repeat  the  process  and  place  on  the  ice 
to  harden.  When  cold  roll  out  to  an  oblong  flat  one-eight  of  an  inch 
thick,  place  it  on  a  baking  sheet  and,  with  a  knife,  cut  into  strips  five 
inches  long  and  less  than  one-quarter  of  an  inch  wide.  Bake  and  serve 
piled  in  triangles  or  squares.  M.  L.  C. 

SAGE  CHEESE. 

Pound  the  tops  of  fresh  young  sage  leaves  with  the  same  quantity  of 
spinach  leaves,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice.  Add  this  to  some  extract  of 
rennet  and  stir  into  the  milk  a  sufficient  quantity  to  suit  the  taste.  When 
the  curd  comes,  break,  salt  it,  put  into  the  vat,  press  for  a  few  hours,  take 
out  of  press  and  then  rub  and  turn  the  cheese  every  day  for  two  weeks. 

E.  A.  M. 


OVER  FIFTY  WAYS  TO  COOK  THEM. 

THERE  is  probably  no  one  article  of  food  that  enters  so  frequently 
into  the  composition  of  dishes  for  the  table  as  do  eggs.  Their 
value  as  food  is  well  known,  the  nutriment  in  them  as  well  as  their  ease 
of  digestion  entitling  them  to  be  considered  as  one  of  the  most  useful 
articles  for  daily  use.  In  some  households  they  are  the  principal  break- 
fast dish,  and  the  variety  of  ways  in  which  they  can  be  used  greatly 
enhances  their  value. 

HOW  TO  TEST  GOOD  AND  BAD  EGGS. 

A  sure  test  of  the  freshness  of  an  Qgg  is  to  immerse  it  in  water. 
Should  it  sink  to  the  bottom  and  lie  on  its  side  it  is  good  but  if  the  egg  is 
stale,  it  will  float  or  stand  upon  one  end. 

The  "candling"  process  consists  in  looking  through  the  egg  at  a  light, 
or  holding  it  between  you  and  the  sun.  If  it  shows  up  clear  and  spotless 
so  that  the  yolk  can  be  perceived,  it  is  good,  otherwise,  it  is  not;  also,  in 
shaking  an  egg.  if  it  makes  a  sound  it  is  not  a  good  egg  and  should  be 
rejected. 

HOW  TO  PRESERVE  EGGS  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

In  many  households  eggs  are  regarded  as  expensive,  and  so  they  are, 
perhaps,  but  not  when  the  amount  of  real  nutriment  they  contain  is  con- 
sidered. Xo  other  food  can  take  their  place  at  the  same  price.  We  give 
below  three  methods  of  preser\"ing  them. 

TO  PRE5ER\  E  EGGS  (METHOD  No.  i). 

Procure  a  new  and  clean  wood  box  the  size  that  will  hold  the  quantity 
desired  to  pack  away — and  lay  all  over  the  bottom  a  la3-er  of  common 
salt  about  one  inch  thick.  Now,  have  ready  the  eggs — fresh  as  fresh  can 
be  and  pack  them  in  rows  placing  the  small  ends  down.  When  layer  is 
complete  put  in  salt  until  eggs  are  covered  and  then  put  on  another  layer 
of  eggs.  Continue  until  box  is  full,  cover  and  put  away  in  dr)-,  cool,  dark 
closet.     If  fresh  eggs  are  put  in,  fresh  eggs  will  come  out.  G.  P. 

isr 


188  EGGS. 

TO  PRESERVE  EGGS  (METHOD  No.  2). 

For  every  three  gallons  of  water,  put  in  one  pint  of  fresh  slacked  lime 
and  one-half  pint  of  common  salt;  mix  well,  and  let  the  crock  be  about 
one-half  full  of  this  fluid,  then  with  a  dish  let  down  your  eggs  into  it,  tip- 
ping the  dish  after  it  fills  with  water,  so  they  roll  out  without  cracking  the 
shell,  for  if  the  shell  is  cracked  the  e.gg  will  spoil.  Lay  a  piece  of  board 
across  the  top  of  the  eggs,  and  keep  a  little  lime  and  salt  upon  it.  They 
must  always  be  kept  covered  with  the  brine.  Be  sure  that  eggs  are  fresh. 
If  fresh  they  will  keep  two  and  three  years.  This  is  the  method  sailors 
often  use.  C.  S.  F. 

TO  PRESERVE  EGGS  (METHOD  No.  3). 

Dissolve  sufficient  gum  arabic  in  water  to  make  rather  a  thick  liquid. 
Soon  as  possible  after  the  eggs  have  been  laid,  coat  them  thoroughly  with 
it,  then  place  them  in  a  box  filled  with  powdered  charcoal;  when  required 
for  use  wash  off  the  coating.  Mrs.  Mary  Goodrich. 

EGGS  COOKED  WITHOUT  BOILING. 

By  this  simple  process  eggs  are  lighter  for  delicate  stomachs  than  by 
plunging  them  into  boiling  v/ater.  Heat  a  basin  with  boiling  water  till  it 
is  thoroughly  hot;  then  turn  off  the  water  and  put  the  eggs  to  be  cooked 
into  it,  moving  them  round  so  that  every  part  shall  receive  the  heat. 
Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  pour  this  over  the  eggs,  and  cover 
the  basin  to  prevent  any  steam  from  escaping.  In  twelve  minutes  they 
will  be  perfectly  cooked.  B.  A.  Cook. 

STEAMED  EGGS. 

Break  one-half  dozen  eggs  into  separate  cups,  and  have  ready  a 
w.ell-buttered  dish,  into  which  each  Qgg  should  be  placed  carefully.  Cover 
the  dish  to  prevent  the  heat  from  escaping,  and  set  it  over  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  first  putting  small  bits  of  butter  lightly  over  the  top  of  the  eggs. 
When  they  are  set  sufficiently,  sprinkle  them  with  a  little  salt  and  serve 
with  fried  ham  or  sausages.     It  takes  four  minutes  to  set. 

Mrs.  Lyell. 
SOFT-BOILED  EGGS. 

Put  the  eggs  in  boiling  water  and  let  boil  for  three  minutes.  Take 
them  from  the  fire,  and  let  stand  in  the  water  one  minute  to  set  the  whites. 
Another  way  is  to  put  the  eggs  into  cold  water,  and  leave  them  over  the 
fire  until  the  water  boils,  when  the  whites  will  be  set. 

Nellie  Sammons. 


i 


DISHES  FROM  THE  FIELD  AND  (iARDEN. 

The  more  a  man  follows  nature,  and  is  obedient  to  her  laws,  the  longer  he  will  live;  the 
farther  he  deviates  from  these,  the  shorter  will  be  his  existence. — Ilvfilinid. 


EGGS.  191 

EGGS  A  LA  HAVANA. 

Take  eight  eggs,  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  small  Spanish  onions,  six 
tomatoes,  one-half  teacupful  of  bread-crumbs,  one-half  pint  of  stock. 
Boil  the  eggs  ten  minutes,  cut  them  into  slices,  chop  the  onions  and  toma- 
toes, season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  them  with  the  crumbs  in  the 
butter.  Add  the  stock  and  stir  for  ten  minutes  after  it  boils.  Place  the  slices 
of  eggs  in  the  liquid  and  warm  them  through.        Mrs.  Charlotte  May. 

EGGS  BAKED  WITH  ASPARAGUS. 

Cut  two  dozen  stalks  into  inch  pieces,  using  care  in  removing  all  the 
hard  part;  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water,  drain  and  put  into  a  baking- 
dish;  pour  over  them  one  cupful  of  drawn  butter,  break  six  eggs  on  the 
top,  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  one,  and  a  light  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pep- 
per, put  in  a  quick  oven  and  cook  until  the  eggs  are  firm;  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Alice  Heaton. 
DEVILED  EGGS. 

Cut  in  two,  crosswise,  one  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs.  Remove  the 
yolks  carefully,  mash  them  very  fine  and  season  sparely  with  mustard, 
vinegar,  salt,  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Chicken 
minced  very  fine  m'ay  be  added  if  desired.  Be  sure  that  the  mixture  is 
sufficiently  moist  and  that  it  is  not  "lumpy."  Fill  the  spaces  in  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  with  the  spiced  yolks;  smooth  it  even  with  top;  sprinkle  with 
chopped  parsley;  garnish  with  the  same  and  serve  cold.  Excellent  dish 
for  picnic.  Jane  Bradley. 

EGGS  SERVED  IN  CUPS. 

Butter  the  required  number  of  cups,  break  an  egg  or  two,  as  desired, 
into  each  one,  salt  to  taste,  then  cover  and  place  over  the  fire  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water.  Let  water  boil  until  the  eggs  are  sufficiently  cooked. 
Serve  in  same  cup.  Teacups  will  answer  the  place  of  regular  poachers  if 
one  has  not  the  poachers  at  hand.  Mrs.  L.  H.  Roether. 

EGG  BUTTER. 

To  three  well-beaten  eggs  add  one  pint  of  molasses,  Orleans  or 
sorghum.     Boil  until  it  thickens.     Excellent.  Harriet  Malott. 

EGGS  EN  MARINADE. 

Mix  equal  quantities  of  water  and  good  meat  gravy,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  each  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and 
salt;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  and  stir  in  gradually  two  well-beaten  yolks  of 


192  EGGS. 

eggs.  When  it  thickens,  and  before  it  boils,  have  ready  half  a  dozen 
nicely-poached  eggs,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them.  Garnish  with  pars- 
ley.    It  takes  ten  minutes.  Hannah  Reynolds. 

DROPPED  EGGS. 

Have  the  water  in  the  saucepan  boiling  hard.  Break  gently  the  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  into  it,  being  very  careful  not  to  injure  the  yolks.  With  a 
spoon  dip  the  hot  water  over  them  till  a  skin  or  crust  has  formed.  Take 
them  out  with  a  skimmer,  lay  on  a  flat  dish,  slightly  salting  them,  and 
garnish  the  platter  with  parsley.  Mary  A.  Wheeler. 

EGGS  HAITRE  D'HOTEL. 

Slice  and  fry  Spanish  onions  in  butter,  but  do  not  let  them  brown. 
Add  a  little  flour,  hot  milk,  chopped  parsley,  salt,  and  white  pepper,  and 
let  the  sauce  thicken.  Cut  eggs  that  have  been  boiled  for  ten  minutes 
into  quarters,  lay  them  in  the  sauce,  when  hot,  arrange  the  eggs  neatly  in 
a  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them.  Aunt  Polly. 

EGG  PASTEL. 

Beat  six  eggs,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cheese  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  mix  well  together.  Warm  the  mixture  in  a  stew-pan  over  a 
gentle  fire  and  stir  until  it  is  thick.     Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Minnie  K. 
EGGS  REVUELTOS. 

Six  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream  or  rich  gravy,  one  teacup- 
ful  of  cauliflower.  Cook  the  cauliflower  till  tender;  break  the  eggs  into 
a  pan  with  the  cream,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  place  over  a  gentle 
fire;  add  the  cauliflower  and  stir  the  mixture  till  it  thickens.  Serve  with 
sippets  of  fried  bread.  Mushrooms,  asparagus  or  other  vegetables  can  be 
used  instead  of  cauliflower.  Mrs.  Lettie  Holly. 

EGGS  A  LA  nODE. 

Remove  the  skin  from  one  dozen  tomatoes,  medium  size,  cut  them 
up  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  when  sufficiently 
boiled,  beat  up  five  or  six  eggs  and  just  before  served  turn  into  the  sauce- 
pan, with  the  tomato,  and  stir  one  way  for  two  minutes,  allowing  them 
time  to  be  well  done.  Eliza  Martin. 

BAKED  EGGS. 

Place  a  very  little  beef  drippings  in  the  pan,  get  it  quite  hot;  break  in 
the  eggs  as  if  for  frying.  Salt  them  and  set  in  hot  oven  a  few  minutes, 
when  they  will  be  done.     Eat  with  buttered  toast.  E.  Farrar. 


EGGS.  193 

HUNGARIAN  EQQS  (DELICIOUS). 

A  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  small  onion  chopped  fine,  one 

pint  of  tomatoes  strained,  one-half  pound  of  mild  cheese,  three  eggs,  salt, 

cayenne  to  suit  taste.     Place  the  butter  in  a  pan  (after  having  the  water 

boil  to  heat  the  pan),  let  it  melt,  add  onion  and  cook  until  soft.     (If  one 

does  not  care  for  the  onion,  only  the  flavor,  it  can  be  removed  before 

adding  the  tomato.)       Now  add  the  tomato,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  add 

cheese  cut  fine,  stir  until  it  is  smooth;  now  break  in  the  eggs  and  stir  hard 

until  the  eggs  are  done;  care  should  be  taken  to  break  the  yolk  in  stirring, 

or  it  will  result  in  a  hard  lump;  serve  on  crackers  or  buttered  toast. 

Adelaide. 
FONDA  (CANADIAN  STYLE). 

Take  six  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  teacupful  of  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  beat 
the  yolks.  Mix  the  flour  smooth  in  a  little  milk  and  stir  it  into  the 
remainder;  add  it  with  the  butter  to  the  yolks;  mix  the  whites  lightly  with 
them.  Pour  into  a  well-greased  omelet  tin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon,  or  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  serve  immediately.  Mrs.  C.  O.  D. 

EQQS  MEJIDOS. 

Six  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs  well,  add  sugar 
and  a  small  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Beat  the  whole  together  a  second 
time.     An  excellent  drink  for  an  invalid.  P.  B.  Smith,  M.  D. 

EQQ  RISSOLES  WITH  HAM. 

One-half  of  a  pound  of  ham  or  salt  pork  or  bacon  should  be  cut  into 
small  dice  and  fried  gently  until  cooked.  Break  in  six  eggs  and  stir  once 
or  twice.  When  the  eggs  are  sufficiently  cooked,  place  on  a  dish,  and 
serve  very  hot.  Marian  Somers. 

HARD-BOILED  EGOS  SERVED  COLD. 

Six  eggs,  salad  oil,  vinegar.  Boil  the  eggs  for  ten  minutes,  throw 
them  into  cold  water  and  take  off  the  shells.  Serve  them  whole,  or  cut 
into  slices,  with  oil,  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.  C.  E.  Lamb. 

HARD-BOILED  EQQS  AND  QIBLET  SAUCE. 

Eggs  that  have  been  boiled  hard  may  be  cut  in  two  the  long  way  of 
the  ^gg.  Place  them  on  a  platter  and  pour  over  them  a  sauce  made  of 
chicken  giblets  or  else  some  left-over  turkey  gravy,  J.  E.  Town. 


194  EGGS, 

FRIED  EGGS. 

Put  a  good  quantity  of  oil  or  butter  into  a  shallow  pan,  and  when  it 
boils  break  the  eggs  carefully  into  it  and  fry  till  the  whites  are  crisp;  serve 
on  a  platter  and  trim  with  parsley.  J-  O.  Roberts. 

PICKLED  EGGS. 

Have  the  eggs  hard  boiled,  and,  after  removing  the  shells,  put  them 
in  pickled  blood-beet  juice  until  the  whites  become  colored;  cut  length- 
wise and  serve  as  a  relish.  Lillie. 

PICKLED  EGGS— No.  2. 

To  a  quart  of  vinegar  add  one  ounce  of  whole  ginger,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cloves,  one  blade  of  mace,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  whole  pepper. 
Boil  the  spices  for  five  minutes  in  the  vinegar  and  let  stand  three  days; 
then  strain  the  vinegar;  boil  the  eggs  to  be  kept  for  ten  minutes,  throw 
them  into  cold  water  and  take  off  the  shells;  when  they  are  cold  put  them 
into  jars  and  cover  with  the  vinegar.  C.  E.  Millington. 

OMELET  SOUFFLE. 

Take   three   eggs,   two   ounces   of    butter,   one   dessert-spoonful    of 

chopped  parsley,  one  salt-spoonful  of  chopped  onion,  one  pinch  of  dried 

herbs.     Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth;    mix  the  yolks 

with  the  parsley  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.     Stir  the  herbs  gently  into 

them  and  proceed  as  in  a  plain  omelet.     Double  the  omelet  and  serve 

immediately.  Mrs.  N.  Heaton. 

SPANISH  OMELET. 

Mince  very  fine  enough  ham,  fat  as  well  as  lean,  as  will  fill  a  small 

teacup   and   add   two   finely-chopped   tiny  onions,    such   as   are  used   for 

pickling.     Beat  six  eggs,  stir  the  ham  into  them  and  fry  the  omelet  the 

usual   way,    folding  it  over  when  done.     Garlic  can  be  used  in  place  of 

the  onions,  but  this  M^ould  be  too  strong  for  most  palates. 

Annie  Thomas. 
ROYAL  CREAHED  EGGS. 

Boil  six  eggs  and  cut  in  slices.  Make  a  sauce  by  creaming  one  level 
tablespoonful  of  butter  with  two  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and 
adding  one  pint  of  cream  or  cream  and  milk;  let  boil  three  minutes.  Mix 
in  thoroughly  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  shake  of  pepper.  In  a  granite 
basin  put  a  layer  of  cream,  then  a  layer  of  eggs;  another  layer  of  cream, 
and  so  on.  Sprinkle  rolled  cracker  over  the  top,  dot  with  pieces  of  butter 
and  brown  in  the  oven.  Mrs.  A.  Cavanaugh. 


i 


BGGS.  195 

EGG  SALMAGUNDI. 

Take  six  eggs,  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  teacupful  of  thick  cream, 
one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  mushrooms,  one  lamb's  sweetbread.  Melt 
the  butter  in  a  stew-pan.  Chop  the  sweetbreads  and  fry  them  white  with 
the  mushrooms  in  the  butter.  Beat  the  eggs,  mix  with  the  cream,  and 
pour  them  into  the  stew-pan.  Stir  over  a  gentle  fire  until  the  mixture 
thickens.     Serve  with  croutons  of  fried  bread.  Mrs.  May  Wharton. 

CREAMED  EGGS— No.  2. 

To  five  or  six  eggs  that  have  been  well  whipped  to  a  froth  add  gradu- 
ally one-half  pint  of  cream,  and,  while  mixing  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Butter  a  mold  and  pour  in  the  mixture.  It  may  be  baked  gently  in  the 
oven  till  set,  or  placed  over  a  pan  of  boiling  water.  When  turned  out  of 
the  mold,  a  rich  brown  gravy  should  be  poured  round  it. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Smith. 

EGGS  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE. 

Poach  or  fry  as  many  eggs  as  you  wish  and  place  them  on  a  flat  dish. 
Pour  over  them  plenty  of  brown  butter  sauce.  L.  P.  J. 

FRICASSEED  EGGS. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  sprig  of 
parsley,  one-half  dozen  minced  mushrooms,  one-half  pint  white  stock 
(veal  or  chicken),  one-half  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs  (sliced).  Put  the  but- 
ter into  the  chafing  dish;  when  melted  add  flour  (stirring  constantly), 
parsley  cut  fine,  mushrooms  and  stock.  Simmer  five  minutes  and  add 
eggs;  boil  up  once  and  serve  hot.  Kate  Ray. 

POTTED  EGGS. 

Take  the  yolks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  ounce  of  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Pound  the 
eggs  and  butter  well  together  in  a  mortar,  then  add  the  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper,  and  lastly  the  anchovy  sauce.  Honora  McGrath. 

FRIED  EGGS  AND  TOMATOES. 

Break  six  eggs  gently  into  a  pan  with  plenty  of  butter  and  fry  until 
the  whites  are  crisp.  Cut  six  tomatoes  in  halves  and  fry  them  in  the 
butter.  Lay  them  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  lay  the 
eggs  over  them.     Serve  them  very  hot.  J.  E.  Taber. 


196  EGGS. 

FONDU  AU  GRATIN. 

Melt  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and 
mix  well.  Add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk 
and  let  it  simmer  for  two  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while;  then  take  it  from 
the  fire.  Shred  four  ounces  of  cheese  into  thin  slices  and  stir  into  the 
mixture;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  two  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  them  in  gently.  Fill  a  shallow  tin,  sprinkle  with 
bread-crumbs.  Break  over  them  the  remainder  of  the  butter  in  small 
pieces,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one-half  hour. 

Mrs.  Frances  Reed. 

SUNSHINE  EQQS— MOONSHINE  EGGS. 

Melt  a  little  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  sprinkle  salt  on  it  and  break  into 
it  the  number  of  eggs  required.  Fry  these  over  the  fire  for  two  minutes 
till  they  are  poached,  and  be  careful  to  turn  up  the  edges  to  keep  them 
from  spreading  too  far.  Before  sending  them  to  the  table  sprinkle  pepper 
over  them,  and  cover  them  with  tomato  sauce.  Eggs  prepared  in  the 
same  way  and  sprinkled  over  with  grated  cheese,  are  called  moonshine 
eggs.  Mrs.  M.  A,  Burns. 

SWEETflEAT  TORTILLA. 

Take  four  eggs,  one  ounce  of  apricot  or  pineapple  preserve,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Warm  the  butter  in  a  saute  pan;  beat  separately 
the  whites  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  mix  them  gently  together,  add  the 
preserve  and  beat  them  again;  pour  the  mixture  into  the  butter  and 
brown  it  lightly  on  one  side,  turn  it  with  a  plate  and  brown  the  other  side; 
the  pan  must  be  kept  moving  to  prevent  sticking.  Mrs.  H.  O.  Lane. 

EGG  TOAST. 

Butter  the  toast  and  pour  over  it  a  sauce  made  of  milk  thickened  with 
flour  and  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  add  the  whites  of  eggs 
chopped  fine,  then  grate  the  yolks  over  the  top.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Stone. 

EGGS  ON  TOAST. 

Put  two  quarts  of  water  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  gentle 
boil  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Break  in  six  eggs,  taking  care  not 
to  injure  the  yolks.  Let  them  cook  for  five  minutes.  Have  some  toasted 
bread,  slightly  buttered,  on  a  hot  platter.  Remove  the  eggs  from  the 
water  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  them  on  the  toast  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Sara  Cook. 


1 


EGGS.  197 

COLUMBUS  EGGS. 

Peel  the  shells  from  a  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs  and  cut  each  egg  in 

two  around  the  center,  cutting  off  also  a  little  piece  from  one  end  so  that 

they  can  stand  on  end  as  did  the  famous  &gg  which  Columbus  handled; 

pulverize  the  yolks  and  mix  with  some  finely  minced  chicken,  smoked 

tongue  or  lean  ham;    moistening  with  a  little  fresh  butter  or  vinegar  and 

seasoning  to  the  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  mustard.     Fill  with  this  the 

empty  whites,  taking  care  not  to  break  them;  press  the  two  parts  together 

and  stand  on  a  platter  so  that  they  will  have  the  appearance  of  eggs  that 

have  not  been  dissected.     The  filling  which  remains  over  and  above  the 

capacity  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  accommodate,  may  be  made  into  a 

dressing  by  adding  a  little  vinegar  to  it  and  pouring  over  the  eggs. 

E.  J.  C. 
SPANISH  EGGS. 

Boil  for  twenty  minutes  a  teacupful  of  rice  in  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water  containing  a  tablespoonful  of  salt;  drain  through  a  colander  and 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  spread  the  rice  thin  on  a  hot  platter  and 
place  on  top  of  it  six  dropped  eggs.     Serve  at  once.  D.  A.  V. 

EGGS,  SWISS  STYLE. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and  on 
this  scatter  grated  cheese;  drop  the  eggs  upon  the  cheese  without  break- 
ing the  yolks;  season  to  taste.  Pour  over  the  eggs  a  little  cream  and 
sprinkle  with  about  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese;  set  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  about  fifteen  minutes.  M.  B.  C. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS— No.  2. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  warm,  buttered  spider,  being  careful  to  avoid 
breaking  the  yolks;  add  a  little  salt  and  butter  or  cream;  as  soon  as  they 
begin  to  whiten  stir  carefully  from  the  bottom  until  they  are  cooked  as 
desired.  L.  S.  M. 

POACHED  EGGS,  SPANISH  STYLE. 

Heat  an  earthen  pan  slowly  and  melt  in  it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  smaller  quantity  of  pepper  and  a  small  onion 
minced  very  fine;  or,  instead  of  the  onion,  use  parsley  and  sweet  herbs  or 
a  combination  of  all  together.  Drop  in  the  eggs  one  at  a  time;  do  not  stir, 
but  let  them  brown  a  little;  turn  carefully  and  brown  on  the  other  side. 
In  Spain  and  Mexico  they  are  served  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  cooked 
and  as  hot  as  possible. 


198  EGGS. 

OMELET  A  LA  POULARD. 

Beat  six  eggs  for  five  minutes,  and  season  with  salt.  Melt  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter  in  an  omelet  pan  over  a  clear  moderate  fire,  and  when  it  is 
warm  pour  in  the  eggs.  Let  the  pan  rest  a  moment  to  set  them,  then 
shake  it  gently  and  continually  to  prevent  sticking;  when  the  edges  are 
slightly  set,  run  a  thin  sharp  knife  round  them  and  revolve  the  pan  in  such 
a  manner  that  the  omelet  will  revolve  in  a  contrary  direction.  When  the 
surface  begins  to  set,  slide  it  on  a  hot  dish  and  fold  it  in  half.  Serve 
immediately  with,  if  desired,  a  little  sifted  sugar  over  it.  It  should  be 
a  pale  golden  color.  Tourist. 

EQQ  OriELET. 

Three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  &gg,  over  the  fire  and  turn  in 
the  omelet.  Then  stir  with  a  spoon  constantly.  When  it  begins  to  set  do 
not  stir  but  shake  the  pan  well.  Double  up  the  omelet  with  a  spoon  and 
shake  the  pan  till  the  under  side  of  the  omelet  is  a  golden  brown  in  color. 
Turn  it  out  on  a  heated  dish.  Mrs.  L.  Cutler. 

RUM  OMELET. 

Make  a  very  soft  sweet  omelet;  when  on  the  dish  pour  over  some 
rum  and  sugar,  send  it  to  the  table  and  then  have  it  set  on  fire,  basting 
frequently  to  keep  it  alight.  P.  F.  W. 

TORTILLA  WITH  PARSLEY. 

Beat  nine  eggs  well  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  melt  three 
ounces  of  bu.tter  in  a  saute  pan,  and  make  three  separate  tortillas  with  the 
eggs,  using  one-third  of  the  melted  butter  for  each  one;  roll  them  tightly 
and  cut  each  in  half;  cover  with  Qgg  and  bread-crumbs;  put  the  rest  of 
the  butter  in  the  pan  and  when  boiling  fry  the  tortillas  brown.  Serve 
with  plenty  of  fried  parsley.  Mrs.  Nathan  Hoffman. 

EGGS  ESCALFADOS. 

Six  eggs,  one  ounce  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  cream  or  milk. 
Butter  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  break  the  eggs  carefully  into  it, 
keeping  each  separate.  Melt  the  remainder  of  the  butter  and  while  it  is 
hot  stir  it  into  the  cream.  Pour  it  over  the  eggs,  cover  closely,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten  minutes.  B.  T.  Clifford. 


EGGS.  ,199 

EGOS  (NUREMBERG  STYLE). 

Put  an  &gg  in  boiling  water  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes. 
Take  it  out,  remove  the  shell,  and  dip  it  in  batter.  Fry  it  in  hot  butter 
until  it  is  browned  all  over,  then  dip  it  in  again,  and  repeat  this  until  the 
ball  is  sufficiently  large.    Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  wine-sauce  over  it. 

F.  C.  Phelps. 
TORTILLA  WITH  FRENCH  BEANS. 

Cook  a  cup  of  French  beans  till  tender,  drain  them;  warm  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saute  pan  and  fry  the  beans.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Beat  four  eggs  and  pour  them  into  the  pan.  Bake  it  till  they 
are  set  and  one  side  begins  to  color.  Turn  the  tortilla  with  a  plate  and 
let  the  other  side  set.     Serve  hot.  Mrs.  Geo,  Roth. 

EGGS  AND  BACON. 

Cut  twelve  slices  of  bacon  very  thin,  and  fry  until  crisp;  take  them  out 
and  keep  hot  in  the  oven.  Break  six  eggs  separately  into  the  boiling  fat 
and  fry  until  brown.  Serve  with  the  eggs  laid  over  the  bacon,  and  small 
fried  sippets  of  bread  placed  round.     Hash  can  be  used  instead  of  bacon. 

J.  Porter. 
ONION  EGGS. 

Boil  six  eggs  hard,  slice  three  of  the  eggs,  white  and  yellow  together; 
cut  three  onions  in  slices,  fry  in  butter,  lay  them  on  a  platter;  place  the 
sliced  eggs  over  them,  cover  so  as  to  keep  hot;  grate  the  three  remaining 
eggs,  mix  them  with  a  little  salt  and  a  trifle  of  cayenne  pepper;  boil  up 
in  a  little  cream  and  pour  this  over  the  eggs  and  onions;  delicious. 

Mrs.  M.  Fox. 
CELERY  EGGS. 

Six  hard-boiled  eggs,  let  cool  and  chop  not  very  fine;  one  bunch  of 
celery  chopped  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  three  rolled  crack- 
ers and  one  cupful  of  milk;  fry  in  hot  butter.  Mrs.  T.  Webber. 

EGGS— ATLANTIC  CITY  STYLE. 

Soak  one  pint  of  stale  bread-crumbs  in  one  pint  of  sweet  milk;  beat 
eight  eggs  very  light  and  mix  with  the  bread-crumbs.  Have  ready  a  hot 
pan,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  pour  in  the  e.gg  mixture;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  stirring  often.  Cook  as  quickly  as  possible  without 
burning.     Serve  on  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  Dagett. 


200  EGGS. 

EQQS— COLORADO  STYLE. 

Take  one  cup  of  bread-crumbs  and  soak  in  one  cup  of  milk.  Beat 
five  eggs  very  light  and  stir  with  the  soaked  crumbs,  beating  five  minutes. 
Have  ready  a  saucepan  in  which  is  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  thoroughly 
hot;  pour  in  the  mixture,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  quickly  stir  with 
a  fork  for  three  minutes.     Serve  at  once.  A.  C.  M. 

STUFFED    EQQS— A    LA    HOT   SPRINQS. 

Hard-boiled  eggs  cut  crosswise,  the  yolks  removed  and  mashed  fine; 
add  to  yolks  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  one  of  cream,  two  drops  of  onion 
juice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  mix  all  thoroughly  and  fill  the  eggs  with 
the  mixture  and  put  together;  with  the  filling  that  is  left  add  one  well- 
beaten  Ggg.  Cover  the  eggs  with  this  mixture  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs. 
Fry  a  light  brown.  J.  I.  C. 

DEVILED    EQQS— No.  2. 

One  dozen  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  French  mustard,  two  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  cold  boiled  ham,  one  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  salt 
and  cayenne  to  taste.  Boil  the  eggs  fifteen  minutes,  then  place  them  in 
cold  water  and  let  stand  one-half  hour;  this  prevents  the  whites  from 
turning  dark.  Remove  the  shells  and  cut  lengthwise.  Take  out  yolks 
and  rub  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  mustard  and  oil,  then  add  the  ham, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Fill  the  hollowed  whites  with  this 
mixture  and  serve  on  water-cress.  A.  P.  C. 


HAFING  DISH 


AND 

RECIPES  FOR  SAME 

HOW   TO   PREPARE    A    MEAL    WITH    A 
CHAFING    DISH    AND    KETTLE. 


MANY  times  a  host  or  hostess  feels  called  upon  to  set  forth  an  appe- 
tizing yet  quick  meal.  Oftentimes,  too,  persons  require  a  late 
luncheon,  something  just  before  retiring,  or  something  upon  their  return 
after  an  evening  out.  On  all  such  occasions,  a  chafing  dish  is  indispen- 
sable and  can  be  used  quite  as  elegantly  by  a  gentleman  as  a  lady. 

Perhaps  you  desire  to  ask  what  chafing  dish  to  get — well,  there  are  a 
number  that  are  good  but  I  prefer  the  one  made  by  S.  Sternan  &  Co.  It 
is  simple  and  is  fitted  out  with  the  asbestos  lamp,  enabling  one  to  increase 
or  diminish  the  heat. 

Fill  the  chafing  dish  lamp  with  alcohol,  light,  place  over  it  the  lower 
pan  half  filled  with  water;  place  the  top  pan  in  the  lower  one  and  all  is 
ready  for  a  dainty  meal. 

SUNDAY  NIGHT  EGGS. 

Beat  up  four  eggs  as  you  would  for  an  omelet  and  put  with  it  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  these  well  with  a  spoon. 
As  soon  as  the  eggs  begin  to  stick  beat  them  hard,  and  when  thickened 
serve  immediately.  R.  Manda  Myers. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Four  cups  of  minced  chicken,  one  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  three  eggs, 
drawn  butter.  Roll  chicken,  bread-crumbs,  eggs,  seasoning  and  (enough 
drawn  butter  to  moisten)  into  pear-shaped  balls.  Dip  these  into  beaten 
eggs  and  bread-crumbs;  put  into  chafing  dish  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

A  Bachelor. 
CHICKEN  OR  VEAL  FRITTERS. 

Cold  chicken  or  veal,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  baking- 
powder,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.     Beat  eggs  thor- 

201 


202  CHAFING  DISH  RECIPES. 

oughly,  add  the  milk  and  pour  on  the  flour  and  baking-powder  sifted 
together.  Beat  thoroughly.  Cut  chicken  or  veal  into  thin  slices,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  them  into  the  batter  and  fry  in  the  chafing 
dish.  .  E.  W. 

CURRIED  EGOS. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  small  onions  (minced),  two  dessert- 
spoonfuls of  curry-powder,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one-half  pint  of 
veal  or  chicken  stock,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  six  hard-boiled  eggs, 
cut  in  slices.  Put  into  chafing  dish,  butter  and  onions  and  cook  until 
they  begin  to  brown;  stir  in  the  curry-powder,  mix  well  and  add  flour, 
stirring  quickly  all  the  time;  then  add  the  stock  or  a  tablespoonful  of 
fluid  beef  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  When  the  mixture  has  simmered 
for  ten  minutes  add  cream  and  eggs.     When  hot,  serve.  N.  J.  A. 

FRICASSEED  EGOS. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  sprig  of 
parsley,  one-half  dozen  of  minced  mushrooms,  one-half  pint  of  white  stock 
(veal  or  chicken),  one-half  dozen  of  hard-boiled  eggs  (sliced).  Put  the 
butter  into  the  chafing  dish;  when  melted  add  flour  (stirring  constantly), 
parsley,  cut  fine,  mushrooms  and  stock.  Simmer  five  minutes  and  add 
eggs;  boil  up  once  and  serve   hot.  F.  H. 

CREAMED  SWEETBREADS. 

One  pair  of  sweetbreads,  par-boiled,  blanched  and  cut  into  small 
pieces,  one-half  pint  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour,  salt,  white  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg;  melt  the  butter  over 
boiling  water,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  when  this  is  well  mixed,  the  cream;  as 
soon  as  the  sauce  is  smooth,  put  in  the  seasoning  and  cook  for  five 
minutes.  Mrs.  C.  Kuhlman. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Take  one  pound  of  finely-shaved,  good  American  cheese,  one-third  of 
a  bottle  of  beer;  put  beer  into  chafing  dish  and  when  good  and  hot  add 
cheese,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  Cole- 
man's dry  mustard,  a  good  dash  of  red  pepper;  mix  until  perfectly  smooth, 
stirring  into  cheese  and  when  all  is  creamed  serve  on  hot  buttered  toast  at 
once,  as  it  soon  spoils  if  cooked  too  much.  Mrs.  Marion  Randall. 


CHAFING  DISH  RECIPES.  203 

RAREBIT. 

One-half  of  a  pound  of  rich  cream  cheese  crumbles,  one  teaspoonful 
of  butter  put  in  chafing  dish;  when  cheese  begins  to  melt  stir  rapidly  with 
fork,  add  salt-spoonful  of  mustard,  few  grains  of  red  pepper,  moisten  this 
with  ale,  about  one-fourth  of  a  glass;  have  all  mixed  and  pour  in  when 
cheese  is  melted;  do  not  let  it  cook  after  this  mixture  is  in  as  it  will  be 
lumpy,  serve  at  once  on  fresh  crackers.  Mrs.  R.  LaDow. 

CHICKEN  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

Put  in  chafing  dish  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour  with  one-half  pint  of  milk,  one  gill  of  mushroom  liquor,  add  one  pint 
of  cold  chicken;  cook  three  or  four  minutes,  add  one-half  can  of  mush- 
rooms, sliced;  cook  three  minutes  longer;  then  add  very  slowly  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs;  salt  and  pepper,  stirring  all  the  time.     Serve  on  toast. 

Thressa  Ryder. 

TOMATOES  AND  EGOS. 

Three  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one-half  of  a  can  of  tomatoes, 
one-half  of  a  small  onion,  cut  in  fine  pieces,  small  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste.  Stew  the  tomatoes  and  onion  together  in 
the  chafing  dish  for  five  minutes,  then  stir  in  the  butter  and  flour  made 
into  a  paste.  Add  the  eggs,  which  have  been  broken  into  a  bowl  and 
stirred  lightly  with  a  fork.  Add  seasoning,  then  stir  constantly  until 
rather  thick  and  take  away  from  the  boiling  water  at  once.  Serve  on  hot 
buttered  toast.  L.  P.  Miles. 

FROGS'  LEGS. 

Frogs'  legs,  gill  of  cream,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper,  salt, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Put  the  butter  in  the  chafing  dish  and  stir  in 
the  flour  until  smooth,  then  add  the  cream.  Season  the  frogs'  legs  with 
salt  and  pepper,  put  them  in  the  chafing  dish;  cover  and  cook  about 
twenty  minutes.     If  necessary,  add  a  little  more  cream.  G.  D. 

TOMATOES  AND  MUSHROOMS. 

One  pint  of  cooked  tomatoes,  one-half  pint  of  mushrooms,  one  table- 
spoonful of  bread-crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper,  salt  and 
buttered  toast.  Put  into  the  chafing  dish;  when  mushrooms  are  cooked 
serve  on  the  buttered  toast.  H.  F.  J. 


204  CHAFING  DISH  RECIPES. 

OYSTER  PAN  ROAST. 

One  dozen  large  oysters,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  pint  of 
oyster  juice,  two  slices  of  toast,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  butter  in  the  chafing 
dish;  as  it  creams  add  oysters  and  juice  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Cover  and  cook  two  minutes.     Serve  on  hot  toast  moistened  with  juice. 

L.  G.  R. 
OYSTER  5AUTES. 

One  dozen  of  large  oysters,  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Drain  the  juice 
from  oysters  thoroughly,  butter  the  chafing  dish,  and  when  very  hot  place 
the  oysters  in  single  layers.  When  brown  on  one  side  turn  and  brown 
the  other  side;  while  cooking  keep  adding  a  little  butter.  This^  with  the 
juice  of  the  oysters,  forms  a  brown  skin  in  the  chafing  dish;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  when  browned  serve  oysters  and  skin  very  hot. 

K.  J.  B. 
nUTTON,  CLUB  STYLE. 

Mutton  can  be  cooked  in  the  chafing  dish,  using  the  leg  slices.  Keep 
it  turned  constantly,  until  it  is  cooked  to  taste.  Turn  off  the  flames. 
Spread  currant  jelly  over  it.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Do  not  for- 
get to  trim  away  all  the  fat.  T.  J.  Goode. 

OYSTER  STEW. 

Put  two  dozen  oysters  and  their  juice  in  the  pan  with  one-half  a  pint  of 
water  and  a  little  pepper.  As  soon  as  they  boil  up  remove  them,  skim, 
add  one  pint  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  heat  them  once 
more.     Pour  into  a  hot  dish.  Mrs.  J.  Hurie. 

HACARONI  WITH  EGGS. 

One-half  of  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  macaroni,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
canned  mushrooms  cut  in  slices,  three  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and 
one-half  cup  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Heat  the  milk  in  the  chafing 
dish,  add  the  butter,  then  the  eggs,  which  have  been  well  mixed  together, 
then  the  macaroni,  mushrooms  and  salt.  Stir  over  the  boiling  water  six 
or  eight  minutes.     Serve  with  hot  milk  biscuits  buttered.  H.  B. 

ROE  OF  SHAD. 

The  ingredients  are:  shad  roe,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  cup  of 
grated  bread,  parsley  (chopped),  pepper,  salt.     Put  the  butter  into  the 


CHAFING  DISH  RECIPES.  205 

chafing  dish,  add  the  roe  (after  boiling  it  ten  minutes  in  salted  water),  and 
break  up  lightly  with  a  fork,  add  the  eggs,  mashed  fine,  bread-crumbs, 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  stirring  till  mixed;  add  lemon  juice  just  before 
serving.  Hannah  Smith. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NANTES. 

It  requires  a  large  lobster,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  gill  of  wine, 
three  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  cream.  Take  the  lobster,  cut  in  small  slices, 
put  in  chafing  dish  with  butter,  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt.  Now 
pour  the  wine  over  it,  cook  ten  minutes,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and 
the  cream;  let  all  come  to  a  boil  and  serve  immediately.  Fannie  G. 

OHELET. 

Four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 
Put  butter  in  the  chafing  dish  and  when  it  is  heated  pour  in  the  eggs  after 
thoroughly  whipping  them  with  the  milk.  When  cooked  roll  the  edge 
quickly  over  until  all  is  rolled  up.  Georgiana  LaP. 

FINNAN  HADDIE. 

Take  one-half  of  a  finnan  haddie,  pick-up  and  cook  in  fresh  butter, 
adding  a  cup  of  pure  cream,  one  hard-boiled  egg  cut  in  small  squares,  the 
yolk  of  a  raw  egg  and  one  teaspoonful  of  grated  cheese.  Thicken  with  a 
cream  sauce,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes. 
Serve  in  a  chafing  dish  with  small  pieces  of  dry  toast.  Bo  O.  H, 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  chafing  dish  and  add  one- 
quarter  of  a  cup  of  cream.  Put  in  a  layer  of  oysters  drained,  and  sprinkle 
over  them  rolled  crackers,  add  another  layer  of  oysters  and  a  layer 
of  crackers  and  some  small  pieces  of  butter.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.     Cover  and  cook  ten  minutes,  G.  A.  Lilly, 

ANCHOVY  TOAST. 

Previously  prepare  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast  with  anchovies  spead 
upon  thenio  Keep  hot.  Put  into  the  chafing  dish  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  with  which  is  mixed  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  tomato  sauce,  one  teaspoonful  of  mushroom  sauce.  As  soon  as 
thoroughly  mixed  lay  in  this  sauce,  which  should  be  of  smooth  texture  and 
rich  in  color,  slices  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  with  a  little  salt  and  cayenne 


2()<;  CHAFING  DISH  RECIPES. 

pepper  strewn  over  them.  When  heated,  pour  over  the  anchovy  toast, 
being  careful  not  to  break  the  sHces  of  eggs.  There  will  be  but  little 
sauce,  but  what  there  is  will  be  very  appetizing.  Sarah  Bryan. 

DEVILED  EGGS  ON  TOAST. 

Five  hard-boiled  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one-half  pint  of 
milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  heaping  tablespoonful  of  grated  cheese,  a 
dash  of  dry  mustard.  Take  one  spoonful  of  olive  oil,  salt,  red  and  black 
pepper;  mix  the  yolks,  the  mustard,  olive  oil  and  condiments  together  in 
a  bowl  with  the  back  of  a  silver  spoon  till  smooth.  Put  the  milk,  the 
butter  with  which  the  flour  has  been  mixed,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cut  up 
very  fine,  and  the  salt,  all  into  the  chafing  dish.  Stir  steadily  till  boiling 
hot.  While  attending  to  this,  let  some  one  spread  thick  over  slices  of  but- 
tered toast  the  paste,  then  the  cheese,  and  last  the  hot  white  sauce  and 
serve.  Delia  Martin. 

SHRinPS  A  LA  NEW  YORK. 

Take  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  quart  of  shrimps,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  quart  of  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  The 
butter  must  be  melted  in  the  chafing  dish,  then  the  flour  and  seasoning 
stirred  in,  also  the  milk.  Wash  and  dry  the  shrimps,  cut  them  in  pieces 
and  add  to  the  dish.  After  five  minutes'  stirring  they  are  ready  to  be 
served.  '      Mina  Murdie. 

DRIED  BEEF. 

First  let  the  dried  beef  stand  a  short  time  in  cold  water,  to  draw  out 
the  salt.  Then  melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  chafing  dish  and 
put  in  one-half  pound  of  dried  beef  shaved  very  thin  and  one-half  cupful 
of  milk  and  cream.  Let  it  simmer  ten  minutes  and  stir  in  one  egg. 
When  the  eggs  are  cooked  it  is  done.  H.  A.  Hampton. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

One  pint  of  select  oysters  thoroughly  drained,  one  pint  of  milk,  one 
small  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  mix  butter  and  corn-starch 
together  and  stir  in.  When  boiling  add  the  oysters,  which  have  been 
brought  to  the  boiling  point.  Stew  until  the  oysters  are  well  filled  out, 
with  the  edges  curling,  and  serve  on  thin  slices  of  graham  toast,  buttered. 

P.  G.  Graham. 


DELIGHTS  FOR  THE  OLD  AND  YOUNG. 
Directions  for  the  above  are  all  contained  within  this  book. 


i 


CHAFING  DISH  RECIPES.  209 

MINCED  CRAB. 

Take  about  a  pint  of  crab  meat,  one  hard-boiled  Qgg,  chop  very  fine, 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one-half  pint  of  pure  cream.  Season 
thoroughly,  place  in  pan,  and  cook  for  eight  or  nine  minutes.  Thicken 
with  a  cream  sauce,  and  when  cooked  thoroughly  add  a  glass  of  sherry; 
serve  in  chafing  dish.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Pachaly. 

VENISON  STEAK. 

Have  a  steak  of  venison  cut  quite  thin.  Take  one-quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  one-half  glass  of  currant  jelly,  one  glassful  of  sherry,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mix  the  butter  and  jelly  together  in  the  chafing  dish  and 
when  melted  lay  into  it  the  steak  which  has  had  the  pepper  and  salt  scat- 
tered over  it,  turn  the  steak  several  times  until  it  is  quite  done,  then  pour 
over  the  sherry;  cover  closely  two  minutes  and  serve  immediately. 

L.  C.  Mellen. 
STEWED  VEAL. 

Cut  two  pounds  of  veal  into  squares.  Set  on  fire  to  boil,  and  as  soon 
as  it  does  so,  change  the  water,  putting  in  only  enough  to  cover.  Add 
salt,  pepper,  a  whole  onion  with  three  cloves  stuck  in  it,  a  small  bunch  of 
aromatic  herbs,  one-half  of  a  carrot,  five  small  white  onions,  and  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork;  cut  up  into  dice-shaped  pieces.  Boil 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  and  take  out  the  whole  onion,  herbs  and  carrot. 
Mix  smooth  two  spoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  little  water,  add  to  the  meat  and 
stir  till  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Let  simmer  a  few  moments.  This  stew  should 
be  served  in  a  chafing  dish.  Mrs.  P.  Phillips. 

CLAMS  ON  TOAST. 

Chop  fine  twenty  clams,  add  a  teacupful  of  the  liquor  of  the  clams,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  &gg,  a  dash  of  Tabasco  sauce  or  pepper 
sauce  and  salt  and  black  pepper.  Stir  the  butter  and  liquor  together  in  the 
blazer,  add  the  clams  and  stew  for  eight  minutes,  stirring  continually. 
Add  a  dash  of  Tabasco  sauce,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  the  whole  come  to  a 
boil,  and  pour  over  the  hot  slices  of  toast.  Mrs.  F.  Frehling. 

CREAMED  LOBSTER  A  LA  NEW  VORK. 

I 

A  cold  boiled  lobster  picked  in  pieces,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  crumbs,  rolled  fine  and  the  yolks  of  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  yolk  of  one  raw  ^gg  and  a  dash  of  dry  mustard.  Mix  salt 
and  pepper  with  the  dry  lobster  to  season  it  more  highly,  one  cup  of  rich 


210  CHAFING  DISH  RECIPES. 

milk.  Mix  the  butter,  yolks  of  the  hard-boiled  eggs  and  mustard  to  a 
smooth  paste.  Heat  in  the  chafing  dish  and  add  gradually  the  milk  and 
beaten  yolk  of  the  raw  ^g^,  then  add  cracker  crumbs  and  lobster.  Toss 
the  mixture  about  with  fork  and  spoon  until  thoroughly  heated.  Serve 
on  toast.  Mrs.  Jane  Merriam. 

CALF'5  LIVER  AND  MUSHROOMS. 

Take  part  of  a  calf's  liver  which  has  been  stewed  gently  in  butter  and 
a  little  water  in  the  morning  and  cut  it  into  small,  even  squares.  Mix  with 
one-half  pound  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  put  into  the 
chafing  dish  and  add  seasoning  of  salt,  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper,  and 
a  pinch  of  dry  mustard.  When  heated,  put  in  the  liver  and  part  of  a  can 
of  mushrooms  sliced.  When  it  has  cooked  five  minutes  add  a  small  glass 
of  Madeira  and  serve  with  hot  toast.  Mrs.  N.  Sampson. 

DRIED  BEEF  AND  EGGS. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  in  the  chafing  dish.  Lay  in 
several  slices  of  chipped  beef  and  cover  for  three  minutes.  Have  three 
eggs,  well  beaten  in  a  bowl  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  ready.  As 
soon  as  the  beef  gets  hot  stir  in  the  eggs,  pepper,  and  a  little  salt,  stirring 
all  the  time  from  the  bottom.  A  little  finely  chopped  lettuce  is  an 
addition.  Mrs.  A.  Trall. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  a  chicken  until  tender  the  usual  way.  When  cold,  or  while  hot, 
as  you  prefer,  place  the  breast  in  the  chafing  dish  in  which  a  small  lump 
of  butter  has  melted  and  is  just  beginning  to  brown,  heat  thoroughly 
and  add  one  cup  of  rich  milk.  Season,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
thicken  slightly  with  flour  rubbed  until  smooth  in  a  little  butter.  As 
soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  pour  over  squares  of  toast.  Emma  C. 


I 


SALADS 


MEAT  FISH 
MADEOF       AND 

SHELL-FISH 


For  vegetable  salads,  see  Part  II. 

SALADS  of  some  kind  have  been  used  since 
the  earliest  times,  but  only  within  the  last 
few  years  has  the  real  salad  grown  into  general 
favor.     In  ancient  days  salads  were  eaten  as  a 
sort  of  introduction  to  the  heavier  dishes  that 
garnished  the  table;    now,  they  are  eaten  after 
the  meat  course,  or  as  the  main  course  for  the 
Sunday  night  supper.     Like  soups,  salads  are  of 
two  kinds:  those  made  with  meats  and  those  made  without. 
In  order  that  each  may  come  in  its  proper  place  we  give  here  the  recipes 
of  only  those  salads  which  are  made  of  meats. 

Meat  of  all  kinds  should  be  cut  into  small  dice  or  picked  apart  with  a 
fork  and  should  be  piled  in  fancy  shapes  on  a  platter — the  mayonnaise 
then  spread  over  them,  after  which  they  are  garnished  with  tiny  lettuce 
leaves,  slices  of  lemon,  hard-boiled  eggs,  capers,  etc. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING  (USUAL  METHOD). 

Put  the  yolk  of  an  egg  into  a  cup  with  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and  beat 
until  light;  then  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard  and  beat  again. 
Then  add  olive  oil,  drop  by  drop,  then  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  and  the 
same  of  lemon  juice.  Continue  this  process  until  the  egg  has  absorbed  a 
little  more  than  a  gill  of  oil;  finish  by  adding  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper 
and  sugar.  English  Cook. 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 

One  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  three  of  olive  oil,  one  salt-spoonful  of 
salt  and  one  of  pepper.  French  Cook. 

FAVORITE  DRESSING. 

Take  a  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg,  rub  it  through  a  sieve  and  put  into 
a  bowl  with  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pre- 
pared mustard;  stir  one  way  with  a  wooden  spoon,  adding  slowly  and 
alternately  one  gill  of  olive  oil  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Finish 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  herbs,  parsley,  celery  tops  and  chives. 

Delmonico's. 
211 


212  SALADS. 

CREAM  DRESSING  (BOILED). 

One  cup  of  butter  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar  creamed;  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  of  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Then  add 
four  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly.  Next  one  cup  of  cream  and 
last  one  and  one-half  pints  of  boiling  vinegar.  Stand  over  the  fire  until 
it  approaches  the  boiling  point;  remove  and  bottle.  It  is  nice  with  potato 
salad.  Mrs.  M.  Y.  F. 

BUTTER  HAYONNAISE  DRESSING  (BOILED). 

Take  three  gills  of  vinegar,  one-half  cupful  of  water;  to  this  add 
three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter  whipped  thoroughly,  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  dry  mustard,  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Put  the  vinegar  on  the  stove, 
and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  the  other  ingredients,  all  save  the  eggs, 
which  are  to  be  added  last,  after  coming  off  the  stove.  Whip  all  together 
while  simmering  on  the  stove  three  minutes.  When  cold  add  one  gill  of 
cream.  It  is  then  ready  to  bottle.  This  quantity  will  make  a  pint  of  the 
dressing  and  will  keep  for  two  months.  Mrs.   A.  Robb. 

SALAD  DRESSING  MADE  OF  BUTTER. 

Two  whole  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
tumbler  of  weak  vinegar  or  part  watero  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  gradually 
the  different  ingredients,  the  butter  last  slightly  melted;  set  the  basin  on 
the  range;  stir  till  it  thickens,  then  add  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  cream. 
Let  cool  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Mrs.  D.  Z.  Brooks. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING. 

The  yolks  of  three  eggs,  seven  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  one-half  cup 
of  melted  butter,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt;  cook  these  and  when  ready  to  use  add  one  cup 
of  whipped  cream.  Anna  Smith. 

BOTTLED  SALAD  DRESSING. 
(Excellent.) 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  add  one  cup  of  sugar  slowly,  beating 
thoroughly,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  salt,  white  pepper,  a  little  cayenne, 
and  one-half  cupful  of  cream  or  milk.  Also  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
mustard  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  well 


SALADS.  213 

mixed  in  part  of  the  cream,  bring  to  a  boil  one  and  one-half  pints  of  vin- 
egar; add  one  cup  of  butter.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
stir  well  for  two  or  three  minutes.  When  partially  cool  beat  with  egg 
beater.     When  cold,  bottle  and  put  in  ice-chest.         Mrs.  G.  Galbraith. 


SWEET  BREAD  SALAD. 

Cut  some  cold  boiled  sweetbreads  into  small  dice,  place  them  in  a 
salad  bowl  and  add  some  chopped  boiled  potatoes  and  a  small  quantity  of 
celery  cut  into  pieces.  Place  in  the  refrigerator  until  ready  to  serve,  pour 
over  boiled  salad  dressing;  garnish  with  heart  lettuce. 

Mrs.  a.  T.  Hicks. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

Put  two  heads  of  celery  cut  into  tiny  pieces,  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
little  tender  cabbage.  Pour  over  enough  boiling  water  to  cover,  salt  and 
boil  for  five  minutes.  Take  out  and  put  the  strained  liquor  from  one 
dozen  oysters  into  a  saucepan,  boil  and  skim,  add  a  little  vinegar  and  salt. 
Put  in  the  oysters  and  cook  slowly  for  a  few  minutes  until  done,  take  out 
and  turn  them  into  a  basin  to  cool;  add  a  little  oil  and  vinegar  to  the 
celery  and  cabbage,  spread  some  of  it  on  a  dish,  lay  on  the  oysters,  cover 
with  the  remainder  of  the  mixture,  and  over  this  pour  a  little  mayonnaise 
sauce  and  serve.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Booth. 

HOT  DANDELION  SALAD. 

(Good. ) 

Take  fresh  dandelion  leaves,  wash  in  several  waters,  drain  and  arrange 
in  a  salad  bowl;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Break  into  small  pieces  two 
slices  of  bacon  and  fry  on  the  fire  until  done,  then  add  the  fat  and  all  to 
the  salad.  Pour  into  the  pan  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  let  it 
heat,  then  pour  it  over  and  serve.  Country  Girl. 

LAMB  AND  GREEN  PEA  SALAD. 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  some  nice  lettuce  leaves,  break  apart  and 
put  them  into  a  salad  bowl.  Chop  some  cold  remains  of  roast  lamb  or 
other  cold  meat,  spread  it  over  the  top  of  the  lettuce  and  pour  on  top  a 
cup  of  cooked,  but  cold,  peas.  Prepare  a  plain  salad  dressing  with 
oil  and  vinegar  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  the  dressing  over 
the  salad,  and  serve.  Juliet. 


214  SALADS. 

SALMON  5ALAD. 

To  one  can  of  salmon  take  two  good  fair-sized  heads  of  lettuce. 
Wash  lettuce  and  allow  it  to  drain.  While  it  drains  make  a  dressing  of 
the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  and  two  yolks  of  raw  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  olive  oil,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  of  mustard  and  one  of 
salt,  one-half  cup  of  vinegar;  beat  until  perfectly  smooth.  Cut  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  off  outside  edge  of  lettuce  leaves,  lay  these  aside,  cut 
up  the  balance  of  leaves  in  smaller  pieces  and  mix  with  the  salmon. 
Place  all  in  a  dish  and  pour  over  the  dressing.  Arrange  the  outer  edges 
of  lettuce  leaves  in  a  circle  around  the  salad  and  cut  hard-boiled  whites 
of  eggs  in  rings  over  the  top.  If  eggs  are  gently  lowered  into  boiling 
water  and  boiled  just  ten  minutes,  they  will  not  be  dark  and  will  mash 
more  easily.  M.  P.  Vance. 

SALMON  SALAD— No.  2. 

Open  a  can  of  salmon,  remove  the  skin  and  bones  and  flake  fine  with 
a  silver  fork.  To  one  can  of  salmon  add  one-half  spoonful  of  salt,  dash 
of  red  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  one-half  tablespoon- 
ful  of  vinegar.  Set  in  a  cool  place  for  two  hours.  When  wanted  place 
the  salmon  on  a  bed  of  fresh  lettuce  leaves;  cover  with  one-half  cupful  of 
mayonnaise  and  serve.  D,  E.  B. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Add  to  the  white  meat  of  a  cold  cooked  chicken  three-quarters  of  its 
bulk  of  chopped  celery,  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  e^g  well  beaten,  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  pepper,  made-mustard,  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
salad  oil,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  one-half  teacup  of  vinegar. 
Remove  every  scrap  of  fat,  gristle,  and  skin,  mince  the  chicken  fine,  cut  the 
celery  into  bits  one-half  inch  long,  mix  them;  set  aside  in  a  cool  place. 
Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  fine  powder,  then  add  the  salt,  pepper  and 
sugar,  then  the  oil,  grinding  hard,  and  putting  in  a  few  drops  at  a  time. 
The  mustard  must  now  be  added.  Let  all  stand  together  and  whip  the 
raw  eggs  to  a  froth.  Beat  this  into  the  dressing,  and  pour  in  the  vinegar, 
spoonful  by  spoonful,  whipping  the  dressing  well,  tossing  and  mixing  until 
the  bottom  of  the  mass  is  as  well  saturated  as  the  top;  turn  into  the  salad 
bowl  and  garnish  with  the  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  rings,  and 
sprigs  of  bleached  celery  tops.  Mrs.  Mariette  Simmons. 

CHICKEN  SALAD— No.  2. 

Put  a  four-pound  chicken  on  to  cook  in  cold  water,  add  one  onion; 
simmer  until  the  chicken  is  very  tender;  when  perfectly  cold  remove  skin 


SALADS.  215 

and  cut  meat  into  cubes.  Put  away  in  a  cold  place  until  wanted;  wash 
and  cut  three  heads  of  celer}^  into  pieces  about  one-half  of  an  inch  long; 
put  into  cold  water  until  wanted;  when  ready  to  serve,  dr^-  the  celery  and 
mix  with  chicken,  then  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  on  a  cold 
dish  garnished  with  the  white  celery  tops.  Ivy  Brown. 

GRANADA  SALAD. 

Wash  and  drain  some  heads  of  chicoree,  and  arrange  in  a  mound  in 
the  middle  of  a  dish.  Peel  some  rather  large  tomatoes,  divide  them  in 
sections  and  place  them  around  the  chicoree.  Boil  some  eggs  hard;  when 
cold  cut  them  in  halves,  scoop  the  yolks  out  carefully,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  whites  and  put  them  in  a  mortar.  Pick  some  shrimps  or  lob- 
ster, put  them  in  the  mortar  with  the  yolks  and  pound  to  a  paste.  Fill  the 
hollow  of  the  whites  with  paste,  level  it  off  at  the  top  and  arrange  them 
around  the  tomatoes.  Season  the  mixture  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour 
over  the  salad  some  mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  without  delay. 

Kinsley's,  Chicago. 
CRAB  SALAD. 

Combine  one  pint  of  crab  meat,  two  stalks  of  celery,  cut  fine;  one 
hard-boiled  Qg^  chopped  fine  and  one  tomato  cut  into  small  pieces;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar;  thoroughly  mix  and  place  in  salad-bowl, 
garnishing  it  with  crisp  leaves  of  lettuce;  dress  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Anna   Rurk. 
HERRING  SALAD. 

Eight  herrings,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  veal,  one-half  of  a  pickled 
tongue  (beef),  six  apples,  six  potatoes,  five  onions,  pepper  and  vinegar  to 
mix.     Chop  everything  separately.  D.  J.  P. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  body  of  a  lobster,  take  out  the  tail  part  in  one 
piece,  and  cut  it,  with  the  contents  of  the  claws,  into  slices  one-quarter  of 
an  inch  thick.  Chop  the  whites  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  small  and  rub 
the  yolks  through  a  hair  sieve.  Do  the  same  with  the  spawn  or  coral  of 
the  lobster,  but  mix  the  soft  part  and  any  bits  with  the  sauce.  Pour  the 
sauce  into  the  bowl,  put  in  a  layer  of  shred  lettuce  and  small  salad,  and 
place  the  slices  of  lobster,  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  quartered,  and  inter- 
spersed with  sliced  beet  and  cucumber  on  the  top.  Repeat  in  the  same 
manner    until   the   bowl   is   full,   sprinkling  the   &gQ  and   coral   over  and 


216  SALADS. 

between  the  layers.  To  ornament,  reserve  some  of  the  hard-boiled  eggs, 
yolks  and  whites,  arrange  these,  with  the  coral  and  beet  and  sliced  lob- 
ster, so  that  the  colors  may  contrast  well.  Before  serving,  pour  some 
mayonnaise  sauce  over  the  top.  Crab  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  man- 
ner. A.  T.  Mc. 

LOBSTER  SALAD— No.  2. 

Cut  the  lobster  into  dice  and  season  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vin- 
egar, two  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper 
and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour.  When  ready  to  serve  line  the 
salad  bowl  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  and  after  mixing  the  lobster  thor- 
oughly with  mayonnaise  place  it  on  the  lettuce.  Serve  with  toasted 
crackers  and  cheese.  H.  Richmond. 

FISH  SALAD. 

A  salad  can  be  made  of  any  kind  of  cold  fish  mixed  with  pickled 
gherkins  or  any  other  kind  of  green  pickle.  Oysters  or  shrimps  may  be 
added  to  the  other  fish,  which  should  be  separated  neatly  into  flakes,  and 
the  whole  moistened  with  a  salad  cream.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon 
and  some  parsley.  Mrs.  Hannah  Lane. 

SARDINE  SALAD. 

Mix  sardines  with  some  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  add  some 
chopped  parsley  and  lay  over  the  top  some  sliced  lemon;  garnish  with  let- 
tuce, chopped  fine  and  wet  in  vinegar.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Houston. 


PASTRY.  PIES 
and  TARTS  ^  ^ 


THE  GREAT  AMERICAN  DISH 


THE  making  of  pies  in  America  has  been 
developed  almost  to  as  fine  an  art  as  that 
of  soup  making  in  France.  There  is  scarcely 
an  article  of  food  which  has  not  been  utilized 
in  this  unique  way,  and  the  future  possibilities 
are  only  a  question  of  time. 

GOOD   PASTRY   MAKING. 

It  is  said  that  successful  pastry  makers  are  born,  not  made,  like  really 
successful  cooks.  The  sodden,  pale,  unsightly  looking  dough  crusts  that 
emerge  from  the  ovens  of  many  housewives  would  seem  to  justify  this 
saying.  Yet  care  and  forethought  will  make  a  pastry  maker,  spite  of  that 
old  saying.     It  requires  simply  good  judgment  and  a  deft  touch. 

The  quicker  puff  paste  is  made,  the  lighter  it  will  be.  The  lard,  but- 
ter or  Ko-nut  entering  into  its  preparation  should  be  ice  cold,  if  possible, 
to  insure  that  flaky  crust  which  is  so  much  liked.  The  hands  should 
be  cool  when  mixing  it,  and  the  pastry  board  should  be  of  hard  wood. 
Confectioners'  paste  is  usually  kneaded  on  marble  slabs. 

HOW  TO   HEAT  THE    OVEN. 

Many  err  on  account  of  the  oven.  They  vow  they  have  made  the 
pastry  quite  right,  but  the  oven  has  burnt  it  black  or  else  cooked  it  a  sickly 
white.  This  is  because  intelligence  has  not  governed  the  heat  of  the  oven 
aright  or  knowledge  has  not  shown  what  is  the  heat  suitable  for  pastry; 
therefore,  guesswork  has  given  the  usual  fatal  results. 

A  brisk  oven  is  needed  for  all  pastry.  A  very  simple  test  will  show 
the  right  heat.  If  the  cook  will  insert  a  piece  of  white  note  paper  into 
the  oven  and  after  five  minutes  take  it  out  she  will  know  what  its  heat  is. 
A  pale  yellow  hue  on  the  paper  will  indicate  that  it  is  too  slow  for  ordi- 
nary puff  paste,  a  nice  brown  color,  decided  in  tone,  shows  that  the  heat 
is  just  right.     A  very  dark  brown  shows  too  much  heat. 

217 


218  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

HOW   TO   OBTAIN   GLOSS   ON    PIE   CRUST. 

Even  when  the  oven  is  quite  ri^ht  and  the  pastry  has  been  made 
moderately  rich  a  woman  will  feel  dissatisfied  at  the  appearance  of  a  pie 
because  she  misses  the  rich  brown  gloss  that  she  has  seen  on  pastry  made 
by  practical  cooks.  To  obtain  this  gloss  she  needs  a  wrinkle.  It  is  pro- 
duced by  egg-wash.  An  ^gg  is  beaten  up  with  a  little  sugar  and  a  small 
quantity  of  milk  is  added.  With  this  wash  the  pie  is  brushed  over  after 
the  pastry  has  been  finished  and  all  its  paste  ornaments  have  been  put  on. 
This  is  pastry-glazing. 

HOW   TO   UTILIZE   ODDS   AND   ENDS  OF   PIE   CRUST. 

If  a  little  of  the  pie  paste  has  been  left  over  it  should  be  converted 
into  tea  cakes,  a  little  baking-powder,  a  few  currants  and  some  sugar 
effecting  the  transformation.  Then  the  remainder  of  the  egg  glaze  will 
come  in  handy  to  brush  over  the  small  buns  and  none  will  be  wasted. 
This  wash  is  the  secret  of  the  rich  brown  on  shop  buns. 

VEGETABLE  OIL— SUBSTITUTE   FOR   LARD. 

To  those  mothers  who  look  upon  pies  as  an  abomination  yet  feel  they 
must  now  and  then  meet  the  call  we  suggest  the  use  of  Ko-nut  instead 
of  lard,  (see  Part  IL).  Ko-nut,  in  a  measure,  does  away  with  the  objec- 
tionable feature — namely,  indigestion. 

PUFF   PASTE    FOR   PIES. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  pint  of  butter  (not  too  salty)  or  butter  and  lard 
half  and  half,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  and  one-quarter  cupfuls  of  cold  water. 

Directions  for  Mixing  Plain  Puff  Paste. — First  sprinkle  the  salt 
in  the  flour  and  with  the  hand  mix  in  quickly  the  shortening  until 
all  is  smooth.  Now  mix  in  the  cold  water  quickly  as  possible  and 
roll  out  and  fit  to  a  pie  plate — some  butter  the  plate,  I  prefer  not  to, 
as  a  little  flour  on  the  crust  is  all  that  is  needed  to  prevent  the  crust 
from  sticking;  cut  off  evenly  around  the  edge  of  plate — gather  up  the 
scraps  and  make  another  sheet  for  the  top  of  the  pie  and  roll  out  the 
upper  sheet  a  little  thinner  than  the  under  crust,  lap  one  half  over  the 
other  and  cut  four  or  five  small  slits  at  the  center  (which  enables  the  steam 
to  escape).  Now  fill  the  pie  with  prepared  filling,  wet  the  edge  of  the  rim 
to  prevent  the  juices  from  running  out,  lay  the  upper  crust  across  the  cen- 
ter of  the  pie,  turn  back  the  half  that  is  lapped,  slightly  press  the  edges 
down  with  your  thumb  dipping  occasionally  into  flour,  to  prevent  sticking. 
Bake  to  a  light  brown.  E.  M.  C. 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  219 

PUFF  PASTE  -No.  2. 

For  one  pie  take  a  heaping  cupful  of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  lard,  a 
little  salt,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  very  cold  water. 

Mrs.  Eden. 
FINE  PUFF  PASTE. 

Two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour  (always  sifted),  one  cupful  of  butter, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  wash  the  hands  with  soap  and  water  and  dip  them  first  in 
hot  and  then  in  cold  water.  Wash  the  butter  in  cold  water,  working  it  with 
the  hands  until  it  is  light  and  waxy  but  not  oily.  This  frees  it  from  the  salt 
and  buttermilk  and  Hghtens  it,  so  that  the  pastry  is  more  delicate.  Shape 
the  butter  into  two  thin  cakes  and  put  in  a  pan  of  ice-water  to  harden. 
Sift  the  salt  with  flour.  With  the  hands,  rub  one-third  of  the  shortening 
into  the  flour.  Add  the  water.  Stir  quickly  until  the  paste  is  smooth. 
Sprinkle  the  board  ligJitly  with  flour.  Turn  the  paste  on  this.  Roll  from 
3^ou  and  to  one  side;  or,  if  you  prefer  to  roll  from  you  all  the  time,  turn 
the  paste  around.  When  about  one-fourth  an  inch  thick,  take  the  balance 
of  the  butter,  break  in  bits  and  spread  on  the  paste.  Sprinkle  lightly 
with  flour.  Now  fold  the  paste,  one-third  from  each  side,  so  that  the 
edges  meet.  Next  fold  from  the  ends,  but  do  not  have  these  meet. 
Double  the  paste,  pound  lightly  and  roll  to  about  one-third  of  an  inch  in 
thickness.  Fold  as  before  and  roll  again.  Put  in  ice-chest  or  cellar  one 
hour  to  cool.  As  soon  as  cool,  it  will  roll  easily.  The  less  flour  used 
in  rolling  out  the  paste  the  tenderer  it  will  be.  Lillian. 

CREAHED  PEACH  PIE. 

Line  a  deep  pie  dish  with  rich  pie  crust  and  fill  two-thirds  full  with 
slices  of  canned  peaches  that  have  been  dropped  into  boiling  syrup  and 
cooked  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Cover  with  crust  but  do  not  pinch  the 
edges.  When  rather  cool,  raise  up  the  top  crust  and  pour  in  the  following 
cream,  which  should  cool  for  a  few  moments  before  being  poured  in:  One 
small  cupful  of  milk,  heated  to  boiling;  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  wet  in  cold  milk.  Let  boil,  then  add  the 
white  of  one  &^%  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful 

of  vanilla.  ,  C.  P.  O. 

RAISIN  PIE. 

(Excellent.) 

One  cup  of  stoned  raisins  chopped  fine,  one  lemon,  grate  rind,  take 
out  seeds  and  chop  it  fine  with  raisins;  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water.  This  makes  two  pies;  bake  between  upper  and 
lower  crusts.  Mrs.  Nancy  Miller. 


220  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS, 

ORANGE  PUFFS. 

Take  out  the  pulp  from  two  oranges;  boil  the  peels  until  quite  tender 
and  then  beat  to  a  paste  with  twice  their  weight  of  sugar,  then  add  the 
pulp  and  juice  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Heat  these 
ingredients  well  together.  Line  some  pans  with  rich  puff  paste,  put  the 
mixture  in  and  bake.  When  done  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  firm 
froth,  slightly  sweeten,  spread  over  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

Nannie  Jones. 
POTATO  PIE. 

Peel  and  grate  one  large  white  potato,  add  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
one  lemon,  the  white  of  one  egg  well  beaten,  one  cupful  of  white  sugar 
and  one  cup  of  cold  water.  Stir  well  together  and  pour  into  a  pie  tin  with 
a  rich  under  crust  and  bake.  When  done  have  ready  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  one-half  teacupful  of  white  sugar  and  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon,  all  thoroughly  beaten!  Spread  on  the  top  of  the  pie  evenly 
and  return  to  the  oven  a  few  moments;  a  teaspoonful  of  jelly  on  the  cen- 
ter of  each  piece  ornaments  it  to  a  fancy  degree.  This  pie  is  sometimes 
called  "silver  pie,"  from  its  color.  Jenette  Tweed. 

APPLE  AND  RAISIN  PIE. 

Two  cups  of  tart  apple  sauce  well  sweetened,  one-fourth  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-half  cup  of  seedless  raisins  boiled  for  ten  min- 
utes, yolks  of  two  eggs;  mix  and  bake  with  an  under  crust.  Make  a 
meringue  of  the  two  whites  slightly  sweetened,  arrange  in  fancy  shape  over 
pie  and  set  in  oven  to  harden.  Miss  Agnes  Hyde. 

STRAWBERRY  PIE. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  rich  biscuit  dough;  prick  the  bottom  to  let  out  the 
air  and  bake.  When  cold  fill  with  fresh  ripe  strawberries,  well  sprinkled 
with  powdered  sugar,  spread  over  this  a  meringue  made  with  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar;  put  in  the  oven 
just  long  enough  to  set  but  not  cook  the  berries.        Mrs.  T.  R.  Duncan. 

RASPBERRY  AND  CURRANT  PIE. 

Put  a  layer  of  red  or  black  raspberries  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  pie 
tin,  then  a  layer  of  red  currants  cleaned  and  stemmed,  then  another  layer 
of  raspberries,  then  currants,  and  proceed  till  the  dish  is  full;  sprinkle 
over  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  water,  put  a 
thin  layer  of  pie  crust  round  the  edge,  then  put  on  the  top  crust.  Brush 
the  top  crust  over  with  a  little  water  and  sift  over  a  little  granulated 
sugar.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  one-half  hour;  the  sugar  gives  it  a  frosted 
look.  Be  careful  to  watch  it  after  it  is  in  the  oven  so  that  it  does  not 
burn.  M.  E.  J. 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  221 

OLD=FASHIONED  APPLE  PIE. 

An  old-fashioned  apple  pie  that  appeals  to  all  tastes  is  made  in  the 
following  manner:  After  making  a  nice  light  crust  and  covering  a  deep 
pie  tin  with  it,  wet  the  edge  with  cold  water  and  lay  a  very  thin  strip  all 
around  to  keep  the  juice  in.  Then  pare,  core  and  slice  tart  apples  and  lay 
them  in  the  dish  with  plenty  of  sugar  and  any  spice  that  may  be  preferred, 
such  as  cinnamon,  ground  cloves  and  grated  lemon  rind  with  the  lemon 
juice.  If  the  fruit  is  not  juicy  enough,  the  peelings  and  cores  may  be 
boiled  in  a  little  sugar  and  flavoring  and  then  strained  and  added  to  the 
fruit.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  Nettie  Wilson. 

GREEN  APPLE   PIE. 

Line  a  pie  tin  with  rich  paste,  peel,  core  and  slice  enough  tart  apples 
to  evenly  fill  the  tin;  sprinkle  over  about  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  small  level  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour,  two  tabie- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  a  few  bits  of  butter;  cover  with  a  top  crust  and  bake 
about  forty-five  minutes.  Annie  Hull. 

DEEP  APPLE  OR  PLUM  PIE. 

Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  pastry,  place  a  layer  of  apples  over  this, 
and  sprinkle  with  brown  sugar.  Then  another  layer  of  apple,  with  the 
sugar,  until  the  pie  plate  is  well  filled  and  heaped  in  the  middle.  Over 
the  top  dot  bits  of  butter;  shake  a  pinch  of  salt  over  the  whole.  Wet  the 
edge  of  the  lower  crust,  sprinkle  with  flour,  put  on  the  upper  crust,  and 
press  the  edges  firmly  together.  Bake  a  rich  brown.  Baldwin  or  Green- 
ing apples  are  the  best,  cut  in  thin  slices;  plums  make  a  good  pie,  served 
in  the  same  way.  Mary  Butts. 

ENGLISH  APPLE  PIE. 

Slice  Northern  Spy  or  Greenings  very  thin  and  fill  a  deep  dish.  Add 
one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  water,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  brown  sugar,  bits  of 
butter,  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  a  grating  of  lemon.  Cover  top  with  a  good 
puff  paste,  being  sure  to  wet  the  edges  of  the  dish.  To  be  eaten  warm 
with  cream  and  sugar;  very  appetizing.  Lulu  Rounds. 

NEW  ENGLAND  APPLE  PIE. 

Place  a  border  of  plain  or  puff  paste  around  a  basin  or  deep  pie  dish, 
put  an  egg  cup  reversed  in  the  center,  and  fill  with  tart  apples,  pared, 
cored  and  sliced.  Sweeten  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  season  with  cinna- 
mon or  nutmeg.  Cover  with  a  crust  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  from  one- 
half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Mrs.  Bowerman. 


222  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

APRICOT  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Line  a  pie  dish  with  a  rich  crust.     Spread  smoothly  at  the  bottom  a 

layer  of  apricot  marmalade  an  inch  thick,  and  pour  over  it  a  custard  made 

of  a  pint  of  new  milk,  three  eggs  and  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  rice,  a  little 

sugar,  and  four  drops  of  the  essence  of  almonds.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven 

about  fifteen  minutes.  Julia  Hoff. 

BANANA  CREAM  PIE. 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  crust  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  done, 
cover  the  bottom  with  slices  of  banana  cut  lengthwise,  very  thin.  (Two 
small  bananas  are  enough  for  one  pie.)  Then  fill  the  pan  with  a  custard 
made  in  the  following  manner:  Two  glasses  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  corn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Boil  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens;  then 
pour  it  into  the  pie  crust.  Cover  the  top  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  stiff  and  slightly  sweetened.     Place  in  the  oven  just  long  enough 

to  give  it  a  rich  brown  color.  Ella  N.  Mitchell. 

CHERRY  PIE. 

Line  pie  plate  with  good  crust,  fill  it  generously  half  full  with  ripe, 
stoned  cherries;  sprinkle  over  them  a  good  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sifted  flour.  Dot  over  a  few  tiny  bits  of  butter;  now  fill  the 
crust  to  the  top  with  cherries;  cover  with  the  upper  crust  and  bake.     Very 

good,  indeed.  Amy  McCall. 

CREAM  PRUNE  PIE. 

For  two  pies,  wash  and  stew  two  cups  of  prunes,  then  rub  through  a 

colander.     Add  three  cupfuls  of  sweet  cream,  the  beaten  yolks  of  three 

eggs,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and 

flavor  with   pineapple.      Bake    with    an    under   crust.      Cover   with   the 

beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.     Flavor  with 

pineapple.  Louise  Hull. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Three  cups  of  milk,  four  eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  thick 
stewed  sour  apples  strained  through  a  colander.  Beat  the  whites  and 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  separately,  and  mix  the  yolks  well  with  the  apples, 
flavoring  with  nutmeg.  Beat  into  this  the  milk  and,  lastly,  the  whites. 
Partially  bake  the  crust  before  turning  in  the  filling.  J.  E.  D. 

COCOANUT  CREAH  PIE. 

One-half  cup  of  prepared  cocoanut  soaked  five  minutes  in  two  cups 
of  milk,  one  egg,  one  small  cup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one 
small  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch.  Put  the  milk  and  cocoanut  over  the 
stove  in  a  double  boiler  and  when  hot  stir  in  the  sugar,  then  the  butter 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  233 

and  the  yolk  of  the  egg  beaten  in  a  httle  cold  milk  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  corn-starch  dissolved  in  milk.  When  cooked  pour  into  a  pie  shell 
previously  baked.     Put  a  meringue  on  top.  S.  C.  P. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PIE. 

Pick  out  all  the  stems  and  wash  one  quart  of  berries;  line  a  pie  dish 
with  paste,  put  in  the  berries  two-thirds  of  an  inch  deep;  cover  with  two- 
thirds  of  a  teacupful  of  brown  sugar;  sprinkle  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  over,  a 
little  salt;  cover  the  pie,  cut  a  slit  in  the  center,  press  the  two  crusts 
together  around  the  edge  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  forty  minutes. 

J.  A.  C. 
BLACKBERRY  PIE. 

Pick  the  berries  clean,  wash  in  cold  water  and  make  as  directed  for 

huckleberries.  W.  I.  L. 

GREEN  GRAPE  PIE. 

Make  the  same  as  huckleberry  only  use  more  sugar  (brown).  You 
would  scarcely  believe  it  but  green  grapes  make  a  fine  pie.  M.  A.  R. 

GRAPE  OR  CRAB-APPLE  MARMALADE  PIE. 

Stew  the  grapes  and  remove  the  skins  and  seeds  by  pressing  through 
a  colander.  Add  sugar  in  proportion  of  two  cups  of  grape  pulp  to  one  of 
sugar.  Have  ready  a  pie  tin  with  under  crust.  Pour  in  to  a  depth  of  one- 
half  of  an  inch,  cover  with  strips  of  crust  and  bake;  very  good. 

F.  R.  A. 
CURRANT  PIE. 

Butter  a  pie  plate  and  line  with  rich  paste  rolled  quite  thin;  fill  with 
ripe,  red  currants  not  previously  cooked;  sprinkle  plentifully  with  sugar, 
dredge  in  a  little  flour,  and  put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water;  wet  the 
edge  of  the  paste  and  cover  with  top  crust,  slit  in  center,  press  the  edges 
well  together  and  bake  forty  minutes.  Green  currant  pie  is  excellent 
made  the  same  way  with  a  little  additional  sugar.  H.  E.  R. 

LEMON  PIE  (PLAIN). 

Bake  to  a  nice  brown  an  under  crust  made  of  Ko-nut,  not  lard — see 
Part  II. — and  fill  with  the  following  dressing:  One  pint  of  water  put  on 
the  stove  in  a  double  boiler;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  butter  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, one  full  cup  of  sugar,  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Let  it 
come  to  a  boil  and  stir  in  a  little  corn-starch  previously  dissolved  in  cold 
water,  only  thick  enough  for  a  rich  cream.  Spread  over  with  the  white 
of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  slightly  sweetened.  Place  in  the 
oven  to  brown.  This  is  a  plain,  healthy,  and  easily  made  pie.  It  will  hurt 
no  one.  H.  U.  B. 


224  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

LEMON  PIE— No.  a. 

A  lemon  pie  that  Is  just  rich  enough  to  be  enjoyable,  is  made  by  put- 
ting the  crust  intended  for  it  into  a  deep  plate.  Stir  one  tablespoonful  of 
corn-starch  into  a  little  cold  water,  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  let  all  boil, 
then  add  seven  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs  and  the  grated  rind  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  bake.  While 
this  pie  is  baking  beat  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  and  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  pulverized  sugar  to  a  stiff  froth;  when  the  pie  is  baked  spread 
this  smoothly  over  the  top,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  two  or  three  minutes; 
this  is  long  enough  to  give  it  the  desired  golden  brown  color. 

May  Johnson. 
LEHON  PIE— No.  3. 

For  two  pies  grate  the  rinds  and  use  the  juice  of  three  large  lemons, 
stir  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add 
four  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  lemons  beat  well  again,  and  bake  with  an 
under  crust.  Mrs.  S.  D.  Hillier. 

SLICED  LEMON  PIE. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  rich  pie  crust,  then  put  in  a  cup  of  sugar.  Pare 
one  large  lemon  or  two  small  ones,  taking  care  to  leave  none  of  the  white 
rind.  Slice  very  thin,  removing  all  seeds.  Put  on  a  top  crust,  with  a  fork 
puncture  holes  in  top,  pinching  down  edges  well,  so  that  the  juice  does  not 
escape.     Bake  fifteen  minutes.     Serve  cold.  Mrs.  John  R.  Clute. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM   PIE. 

Heat  one  pint  of  milk  to  scalding,  add  one-third  of  a  cake  of  Baker's 
chocolate,  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar,  then 
add  the  milk  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  last.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  A 
puff  paste  should  be  made  for  this  and  previously  baked. 

Mabel  Sanderson. 
PINEAPPLE  PIE. 

Take  a  large  pineapple,  pare  and  grate  it,  add  to  it  one-half  pound 

of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  a  small  glass  of  wine,  one  tablespoonful  of 

rose  water,  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  mix  all  together,  adding  a  few  cracker 

crumbs,  then  bake  with  two  crusts,  like  an  apple  pie. 

Marcia  Clements. 
A  FRENCH  TART. 

Pound  eight  macaroons  fine;  pour  boiling  milk  over  them  to  form  a 
light  batter,  add  six  well-beaten  eggs,  sweeten,  pour  into  a  saucepan  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens;    add  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of.  butter  and 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  225 

the  juice  of  one  orange.     Line  a  dish  with  pastry;    add  the  mixture  and 
bake  twenty  minutes.     Just  before  serving,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  it. 

Mrs.  Merinda  Clay. 

STEWED  SQUASH  OR  PUMPKIN  FOR  PIES. 

Medium,  deep-colored  pumpkins  are  the  best.     Cut   in  half,  remove 

the  seeds,  then  cut  up  in  thick  slices,  pare  the  outside  and  cut  again  in 

small  pieces.     Put  one-half  of  it  into  a  granite  saucepan  with  a  very  little 

water;    let  cook  slowly  until  tender.     Now  set  the  pan  on  the  back  of  the 

stove  and  cook  slowly,  stirring  often  until  the  moisture  is  dried  out  and 

the  pumpkin  looks  dark  and  red.     It  requires  cooking  at  least  half  a  day 

to  have  it  dry  and  rich.     When  cool  press  through  a  colander.     As  only 

one-half  of  the  pumpkin  is  required  the  other  half  can  be  dried  and  used 

at  some  future  time.  E.  V.  A. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

(Like  Mother  Makes.) 

One  quart  of  milk,  three  small  cupfuls  of  boiled  and  strained  pump- 
kin, one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  molasses, 
the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  separately,  a  little  salt,  one 
level  tablespoonful  each  of  ginger  and  cinnamon.  Beat  all  together  and 
bake  with  an  under  crust;  enough  for  three  pies.  Hubbard  squash  may 
be  substituted  for  pumpkin  if  latter  is  not  at  hand.  Amy  Brooks. 

SQUASH  PIE. 

Add  two  cups  of  milk  to  four  and  one-quarter  cups  of  sifted  squash. 
Use  five  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  one-half  of  a 
nutmeg,  grated,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  salt  to  taste.  Bake  on 
single  crust  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Mrs.  Sally  Bowles. 

DATE  PIE. 

Soak  one  pound  of  dates  over  night  in  a  little  water  and  stew  them  in 
the  same  the  next  morning  until  soft  enough  to  strain  through  a  colan- 
der; add  one  quart  of  rich  milk,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
butter  size  of  a  walnut  and  four  or  five  gratings  of  nutmeg.  Bake  with 
an  under  crust.     This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  three  pies.     Icing  may  be 

made  for  the  top.  Ida  M.  Baxter. 

PRUNE  PIE. 

Stew  and  mash  through  the  colander  a  pound  of  prunes,  one  cup  of 
pulp;  add  one  cup  of  thin,  sweet  cream,  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch 
nibbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk,  the  yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs  and 
one-third  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  Put  in  two  spoonfuls  of  apricot,  peach  or 
pear  juice  for  flavor;   line  a  pie  plate  with  crust,  fill  with  the  mixture  and 


226  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

bake  quickly.     Do  not  burn.     Beat  with  the  whites  two  tablespoonfuls  of 

powdered  sugar  and  spread  over  the  top  of  the  pie,  brown  Hghtly. 

Mrs.  B.  Melendy. 
PEACH  OR  PLUM  PIE. 

Peel,  stone  and  slice  good  flavored  peaches.     Line  a  pie  plate  with 

crust  and  lay  in  the  fruit,  sprinkling  sugar  liberally  over  in  proportion  to 

the   sweetness  of  the  peach.     Dot  with  butter;    add  a  very  little  water 

and  bake  with  an  upper  crust,  or  with  cross-bars  of  paste  across  the  top. 

Julia  T.  Tibbitts. 
nOCK  CHERRY  PIE. 

One  cupful  of  cranberries;  prick  each  one  with  a  fork  to  keep  them 
from  cooking  to  pieces,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  water  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour  wet  in  a  little  of  the  water.  Stir  all  together 
and  bake  between  two  crusts.  Mrs.  Orval  Townsend. 

VINEGAR  PIE. 

Line  pie  tin  with  good  crust;    take  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one 

teacupful  of  sugar  and  mix  well.     Now  add  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of 

good  vinegar  and  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  water;    flavor  with  nutmeg  and 

cover  with  strips  of  crust.     Lay  on  bits  of  butter  and  bake  in  a  moderate 

oven.  L.  A.  Gregg. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  one  cup  of 
water,  one-half  cupful  of  vinegar,  one-half  pound  of  chopped  raisins,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg.     Make  a  good  crust  for  it.  Hattie  King. 

HARLBOROUQH  PIE. 

One  cup  of  strained  stewed  apples,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter',  two  eggs  well  beaten,  nutmeg,  bake  with 
under  crust  only.  Mrs.  Geo.  Spence.  " 

RHUBARB  PIE. 

Select  the  red  stalks,  those  that  have  grown  in  the  sun,  cut  off  where 
the  leaves  commence,  strip  off  the  outside  skin,  then  cut  in  pieces  one-half 
inch  long;  line  a  pie  dish  with  paste,  put  a  layer  of  the  rhubarb  nearly  an 
inch  deep,  a  large  teacupful  of  sugar,  sprinkle  with  salt,  shake  over  a 
little  flour,  cover  with  a  crust,  slit  in  the  center,  trim  off  the  edge  and 
l^ake  in  a  quick  oven  until  done.  Rhubarb  pies  made  in  this  way  are 
altogether  superior  to  those  made  of  the  fruit  stewed,  N.  E.  L. 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  227 

RHUBARB  PIE  (STEWED). 

Stew  and  sweeten  fruit  to  taste.  Line  a  dish  with  paste;  brush  the 
paste  over  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  to  keep  it  from  becoming 
soggy.  Put  only  one-half  cup  of  water  to  a  two-quart  saucepan  of  the 
rhubarb  in  stewing,  or  it  will  be  too  juicy.  Fill  the  dish  three-quarters 
full,  put  strips  of  paste  across  as  for  a  tart  pie,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
until  the  crust  is  done.  Katharine. 

GOOSEBERRY  PIE. 

Line  a  deep  dish  and  fill  with  ripe  or  green  gooseberries,  regulating 
the  quantity  of  sugar  you  use  by  their  sweetness  (one  cup  at  least);  sift 
over  this  a  small  teaspoonful  of  fiour,  add  a  very  little  butter,  then  cover 
with  a  crust  and  bake.  R.  A.  B. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

Beat  three  eggs  well,  add  one  pint  of  milk,  a  little  nutmeg  grated,  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar  and  any  flavor  to  suit,  though  vanilla  is  the  best.  There 
is  a  perforated  pie  plate  made  which  is  especially  suited  to  custard  pies,  as 
the  steam  escapes  and  prevents  the  pie  becoming  soggy.  The  crust  may 
be  baked  light  brown  before  adding  the  custard.  Pricking  the  dough 
before  baking  prevents  blistering.  Mrs.  James  Morrison. 

CUSTARD  PIE— No.  2. 

Six  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  or  flour  and  three  cups  of  milk;  flavor  to 
taste.     This  is  sufficient  for  three  pies;  bake  with  one  crust  only. 

Eunice  Forshee. 
MINCE  PIES. 

Four  pounds  of  lean  boiled  beef  when  cold,  chopped  fine,  twice  as 
much  of  chopped  green  tart  apples,  one  pound  of  chopped  suet,  three 
pounds  of  raisins,  seeded,  two  pounds  of  currants  picked  over,  washed 
and  dried,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  cut  up  fine,  one  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
one  quart  of  cooking  molasses,  two  quarts  of  sweet  cider,  one  pint  of 
boiled  cider,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  pepper,  one 
tablespoonful  of  mace,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice  and  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  cinnamon,  two  grated  nutmegs,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves;  mix 
thoroughly  and  warm  it  on  the  range  until  heated  through.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  when  nearly  cool,  stir  in  a  pint  of  good  brandy  and  one 
pint  of  Madeira  wine.  Put  into  a  crock,  cover  it  tightly  and  set  in  a  cold 
place  where  it  will  not  freeze,  but  keep  perfectly  cold.  Will  keep  good 
all  winter.  Chef  de  Cuisine,  Astor  House,  N.  Y. 


228  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

MINCE  PIES— No.  2. 

Take  two  pounds  of  beef,  boil  and  chop  it  very  fine;    one-half  pound 

of  suet,  chopped  fine;  six  large  apples,  pared  and  chopped;  two  pounds  of 

currants,  one-half  pint  of  wine,  glass  of  rose-water;    sugar  and  spice  to 

your  taste.  C.  A.  B. 

niNCE  PIES— No.  3. 

Select  a  nice  shin  of  beef  and  boil  down  till  very  tender,  add  one 
pound  of  clear  beef  suet  chopped  very  fine,  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  six 
pounds  of  greening  apples  peeled,  cored  and  chopped,  three  pounds  of 
seedless  raisins,  three  pounds  of  currants  carefully  cleaned,  one  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  a  cup  of  maple  syrup,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  shredded, 
one-half  pound  of  candied  lemon  peel,  one  quart  of  the  best  cider. 
Instead  of  cider,  some  persons  put  in  a  quart  of  Madeira  wine  and  a  little 
brandy.     I  prefer  the  cider.  Marion  C.  Howitt. 

EQQ  MINCE  HEAT  (FOR  PIES). 

Take  six  hard-boiled  eggs  and  shred  them  very  fine;  take  double  the 
quantity  of  beef  suet  and  chop  very  small;  wash  one  pound  of  currants 
and  dry  them;  the  peel  of  one  large  or  two  small  lemons  chopped  up;  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  sweetened;  a  little  mace,  nutmeg  and  salt,  with 
sugar  to  your  taste;  add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied  orange  and 
citron,  cut  into  thin  slices.  Mix  all  well  together  and  press  it  into  a  jar 
for  use.  •  Mrs.  Maria  Colby. 

CUSTARD  TARTLETS. 

Line  some  patty  pans  with  a  good  crust.  Make  a  custard,  flavor  it 
nicely,  and  three-parts  fill  the  pans  with  custard.  Bake  the  tartlets  in  a 
gentle  oven.  Take  them  out,  let  them  cool,  and  spread  a  little  sugar 
icing  over  them.  Strew  a  little  more  sugar  on  the  top,  and  bake  them  in 
a  gentle  oven  until  the  icing  is  crisp.  If  a  richer  tartlet  is  wanted,  a  little 
jam  may  be  put  over  the  custard.  Time:  about  one-quarter  of  an  hour 
to  bake  the  tartlets.  F.  E.  R. 

CREAH  PIE. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  (large)  sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Boil  until  it  thick- 
ens, stirring  constantly.  Then  fill  the  shell  (which  has  been  baked  pre- 
viously) with  the  mixture  and  ice  with  whites  of  eggs. 

Mrs.  R.  W.  Campbell. 
CREAM  PIE— No.  2. 

For  one  pie  take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  one-half  teacupful  of 
granulated  sugar  and  beat  well;   then  add  one  large  teacupful  of  rich, 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  229 

sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  one  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch or  flour.  Put  upon  the  stove  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until 
creamy.  Have  a  rich  crust  baked  and  fill  with  this  filling.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  stiff,  sweeten  to  taste  and  spread  on  top.  Set  in  the 
oven  to  brown.     If  made  with  care  there  is  none  better. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Davis. 
BUTTERFLY  PIE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  warm  water  and  five  cups  of  flour.  Mix 
the  water,  molasses  and  soda  and  put  into  crusts,  then  mix  crumbs  of 
butter,  flour  and  sugar  and  sprinkle  over.  Helen  Morse. 

RASPBERRY,  CHERRY  OR  GOOSEBERRY  TURNOVERS. 

Take  a  good  light  crust,  roll  it  out  two  or  three  times,  then  leave  it 
one-quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  it  out  in  rounds  with  a  small 
basin,  and  lay  a  few  black  raspberries,  cherries  or  gooseberries,  which 
have  been  stewed  with  sugar,  on  one-half  of  each  round.  Turn  the  other 
half  over  the  fruit,  fasten  the  edges  securely,  and  bake  on  tins  in  a  moder- 
ate oven.     Serve  with  sifted  sugar.  Mrs.  C.  I.  Burt. 

CHEESE  PIE. 

One  teacupful  of  sour  milk  curd  slightly  salted,  two  eggs,  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of 
English  currants  well  cleaned.  Rub  the  curd  thoroughly  before  mixing 
with  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  in  a  deep  pie  tin  lined  with  rich  crust. 
Powder  with  cinnamon.  Mrs.  Mary  C.  Bartlett. 

TARTS. 

Small,  round,  heart-shaped  or  oblong  shallow  pans  are  required  for 
tarts  proper.  Line  with  paste  and  bake;  when  cool  fill  with  jam  or  pre- 
serve, or  meringue.  A  few  stars  or  leaves  or  strips  of  paste  criss-crossed 
are  placed  on  the  top  of  fruit  tarts.  Dried  fruit,  stewed  until  thick,  makes 
fine  tarts;  pineapple  and  chocolate  cream  fillings  are  fine. 

Mary  Manning. 
MERINGUE  TARTS. 

Take  tarts  of  any  preserved  fruit  and  after  beating  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  to  a  froth  mix  very  slowly  with  them  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
flavored  with  lemon  or  pineapple.  Cover  the  tarts  thick,  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  deep,  with  this  mixture,  smoothing  evenly  on;  set  in 
the  oven  to  brown  slighlty  and  serve,  either  hot  or  cold. 

Josephine  LaRue. 


230  PASTRY,  FIRS  AND  TARTS. 

SAND  TARTS. 

Mix  twelve  ounces  of  butter,  one  pound  of  white  su^ar,  two  pounds 
of  flour,  one  ^gg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Roll  very  thin  and 
cut  into  squares  or  diamonds.  Before  baking  wash  the  tops  with  the 
white  of  an  Qgg.  Sprinkle  powdered  loaf-sugar  and  cinnamon  over  them. 
Place  four  or  five  blanched  almonds  on  each  tart.         Mrs.  Jane  Carnes. 

GREEN  GOOSEBERRY  TART. 

Stem  the  gooseberries.  Put  into  a  porcelain  kettle  with  enough 
water  to  prevent  burning  and  stew  slowly  until  they  break.  Take  off, 
sweeten  well.  When  cold  pour  into  pastry  shells  and  bake  with  a  top  crust 
of  puff  paste.  Brush  all  over  with  beaten  ^gg  while  hot,  set  back  in  the 
oven  to  glaze  for  three  minutes.     To  be  eaten  cold.     The  Household. 

GOOSEBERRY    PUREE  FOR  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

Pick  over  four  pounds  of  green  gooseberries;    boil  them  in  one-half 

pint  of  water  until  they  are  soft,  and  rub  them  through  a  fine  hair  sieve; 

add  one  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  berries,    mix  well,    fill  some 

bottles  with  this  puree,  cork,  and  tie  the  bottles  with  a   string,  and  boil 

them  in  water  twenty  minutes.     This  is  an  excellent  filling  for  pies,  tarts 

and  ices.  Mrs.  C.  Lane. 

ENGLISH  CHEESECAKES. 

Boil  one  pint  of  sugar  twenty  minutes  in  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of 
water,  stir  in  one  and  one-half  cups  of  cocoanut  and  boil  twelve  minutes 
longer;  while  warm,  stir  in  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter;  add  the  yolks 
of  six  eggs  well  beaten;  line  patty-pans  with  rich  paste,  fill  and  bake. 

Miss  Maumie  Hutchins. 
APPLE  CHEESECAKES. 

Pare  and  core  a  pint  of  apples  and  stew  them  with  a  pint  of  sugar, 
the  finely-chopped  rind  of  a  lemon,  a  teacupful  of  water  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter;  take  three  eggs,  beat  them  well,  and  mix  all  thor- 
oughly together;  bake  for  one-quarter  of  an  hour  in  patty-pans  lined  with 

under  crust.  Mrs.  Julia  Harrison. 

NEAPOLITAINOES. 

Make  enough  puff  paste  for  a  pie,  roll  into  a  sheet  one-half  inch 
thick,  cut  into  oblongs  three  inches  in  length  and  two  inches  in  width. 
Bake  in  quick  oven;  when  done  spread  one-half  of  the  strips  with  jam  and 
put  the  other  half  over,  forming  pairs  with  jelly  between;  dust  with  sugar. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Hoover. 


mm 


HOWTO 
MAKETHEM 


TO  INSURE  success  in  cake,  cooky  and  doughnut  making,  use  none 
but  the  best  ingredients,  and  have  all  the  materials  ready  before 
commencing  to  mix  them.  The  flour  should  be  sifted,  then  measured, 
the  cream  of  tartar  or  the  baking-powder  should  be  well  incorporated 
with  the  flour,  butter  should  be  soft  but  not  melted  and  if  too  salty,  rinse 
two  or  more  times  with  cold  water,  sugar  (pulverized,  never  granulated) 
should  be  sifted,  eggs  fresh  and  thoroughly  cold,  spices  ground,  raisins 
seeded  and  currants  stemmed,  washed  and  thoroughly  dried. 

HOW  TO  PUT  A  CAKE  TOGETHER. 

The  following  ruie'of  putting  a  cake  together,  never  fails.  Work  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately 
(the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  the  yolks  to  a  cream),  then  add  yolks  to  the 
creamed  butter  and  sugar,  afterwards  add  the  milk,  then  the  flavoring, 
next  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  lastly  the  flour,  by  degrees.  If  fruit  is 
added,  dredge  flour  over  it,  stirring  it  in  slowly  and  thoroughly  before  the 
flour.  Where  the  recipe  calls  for  baking-powder  and  you  are  out  of  it, 
use  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  in  the  proportion  of  one  level  teaspoonful  of 
soda  to  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar.  Sift  the  cream  of 
tartar  into  the  flour,  dissolve  the  soda  in  a  teaspoonful  of  boiling  water, 
adding  it  to  the  cake  before  adding  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  When  sour 
milk  is  used,  always  use  soda,  not  baking-powder.  If  soda  and  sour  milk 
are  called  for — sweet  milk  and  baking-powder  can  be  substituted  by  using 
two  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  to  a  quart  of  flour. 
Avoid  stirring  cake  after  the  sugar  and  butter  are  creamed,  but  beat  from 
the  bottom,  up  and  over. 

HOW  TO  BAKE  A  CAKE. 

Cake  pans  should  be  lined  with  buttered  writing  paper.  To  test  the 
cake  when  baking,  insert  a  broom  straw — if  not  sticky,  the  cake  is  done. 
Do  not  open  the  oven  door  often.  It  reduces  the  temperature  and  causes 
the  cake  to  fall.  A  small  dish  of  water  in  the  oven  will  prevent  scorching. 
This  is  particularly  necessary  in  gas-range  ovens.  Another  good  way  to 
avoid  burning  is  to  lay  a  thin  sheet  of  tin  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven  and 
a  piece  of  buttered  brown  paper  over  the  top  of  the  cake. 

231 


232  CAKES. 

PLAIN  FR05TINQ  OR  ICINQ  FOR  CAKES. 

The  quickest  way  of  beating  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  is  to  put  them  in  a 
large  cup  and  use  the  "dover  beater."  Some  still  prefer  to  use  a  platter 
and  a  silver  fork.  Either  way  is  good.  Above  all  things  the  eggs  should 
be  cold,  and  the  dish  on  which,  or  in  which,  they  are  to  be  beaten  should 
also  be  cold.  Allow,  for  the  white  of  one  ^gg,  one  small  teacupful  of 
powdered  sugar.  Break  the  eggs,  putting  on  them  a  small  pinch  of  salt, 
then  throw  a  small  handful  of  sugar  on  them  and  begin  beating  at  once; 
keep  adding  sugar  at  intervals  until  it  is  all  used  up.  The  eggs  must  iioi 
be  beaten  until  the  sugar  has  been  added  in  this  way,  which  gives  a 
smooth,  tender  frosting  and  one  that  will  dry  readily. 

Spread  with  a  broad  knife  evenly  over  the  cake.  If  it  seems  too  thin, 
beat  in  a  little  more  sugar.  If  desired  the  cake  can  be  covered  with  two 
coats,  the  second  after  the  first  has  become  dry.  If  the  icing  gets  too 
dry  before  the  last  coat  is  added  it  can  be  thinned  with  a  little  water, 
enough  to  make  it  work  smoothly. 

The  flavors  mostly  used  for  icing  are  strawberry,  lemon,  vanilla, 
almond,  rose,  chocolate,  pineapple  and  orange.  To  ornament  with  figures 
or  flowers,  make  up  extra  icing,  keep  about  one-third  out  until  that  on  the 
cake  is  dried;  then,  with  a  clean  glass  syringe,  apply  it  in  such  forms  as 
desired  and  dry  as  before;  what  is  kept  out  to  ornament  with  may 
be  tinted  pink  with  strawberry,  blue  with  huckleberry  juice,  yellow  with 
orange  (using  the  grated  rind  of  an  orange  strained  through  a  cloth), 
green  with  spinach  juice  and  brown  with  chocolate,  purple  with  grape  juice. 
Currant,  raspberry  and  cranberry  juices  color  a  delicate  pink. 

Saffron,  indigo  and  cochineal  can  be  used  for  coloring  yellow,  blue 
and  red  instead  of  the  fruits,  but  the  former  is  much  nicer  and  more 
healthful. 

FROSTING  OR  ICINQ  (BOILED). 

Two  cups  of  sugar  and  water  to  moisten.  Let  stand  till  it  dissolves; 
boil  slowly  without  stirring  until  it  threads  from  the  spoon.  Beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  when  syrup  is  slightly  cooled,  stir  in 
gradually,  and  beat  until  cold;  season  to  taste  with  vanilla,  lemon  or  what 
you  prefer.  C.  Clements. 

DATE,  RAISIN  OR  FIG  ICINQ. 

Fruits  chopped  and  added  to  the  above  icing  substituted  in  place  of 
the  whites  of  eggs  is  a  most  palatable  change. 


CAKES.  233 

LEMON  FROSTING. 

Take  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  add  to  it  powdered  sugar  until  thick 
enough  to  spread.  Pour  over  top  of  cake  and  smooth  with  thin  bladed 
knife  which  has  been  dipped  in  water.  A.  P.  V. 

PLAIN  VANILLA  ICINQ. 

Break  the  white  of  one  large  ^gg  into  a  bowl  and  gradually  beat  into 
it  one  cupful  of  confectioners'  sugar.  Beat  for  three  minutes,  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract  and  spread  thinly  on  the  cakes. 

Maria  Parloa. 
PLAIN  CHOCOLATE  ICINQ. 

Make  a  vanilla  icing,  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  water  to  it. 
Scrape  fine  one  ounce  of  chocolate  and  put  it  in  a  small  iron  or  granite- 
ware  saucepan,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  confectioners'  sugar  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  hot  water.  Stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy, 
then  add  another  tablespoonful  of  hot  water.  Stir  the  dissolved  choco- 
late into  the  vanilla  icing.  Maria  Parloa. 

GLACE  ICING. 

See  Chocolate  Glace  Cake. 

COCOA  FROSTING. 

Four  teaspoonfuls  of  cocoa,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  about  one  and 
three-fourth  cups  of  confectioners'  sugar.  Put  the  cocoa  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan; add  the  cold  water  and  stir  until  perfectly  smooth,  then  the  hot 
water,  and  cook  for  one  or  two  minutes;  add  vanilla  and  a  speck  of  salt, 
then  stir  in  enough  sugar  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  spread  nicely.  Beat 
until  smooth  and  glossy  and  free  from  lumps.  If  too  thick  add  a  little 
cold  water.  If  not  thick  enough  add  a  little  sugar.  Never  make  a  frost- 
ing so  stiff  that  it  will  have  to  be  made  smooth  with  a  wet  knife.  It  is 
better  to  let  it  run  to  the  sides  of  the  cake.  For  frosting  sides  of  the 
cake  make  a  little  stiffer.  This  frosting  never  cracks  as  an  &gg  frosting 
but  is  hard  enough  to  cut  nicely.  Miss  Elizabeth  K.  Burr. 

CHOCOLATE  AND  WHITE  ICINQ. 

Put  into  a  granite-ware  saucepan  two  gills  of  sugar  and  one-half  of 
water  and  boil  gently  until  bubbles  begin  to  come  from  the  bottom — ^say, 
about  five  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  instantly.  Do  not  stir  or  shake 
the  sugar  while  it  is  cooking.     Pour  the  hot  syrup  in  a  thin  stream  into 


234  .  CAKES. 

the  whites  of  two  eggs  that  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  beating  the 
mixture  all  the  time.  Continue  to  beat  until  the  icing  is  thick.  Flavor 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Use  two-thirds  of  this  as  a  white  icing 
and  to  the  remaining  one-third  add  one  ounce  of  melted  chocolate.  To 
melt  the  chocolate  shave  it  fine  and  put  in  a  cup,  which  is  then  to  be 
placed  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water.  Maria  Parloa. 

ICING  OF  MAPLE  5UQAR. 

Maple  sugar  makes  a  nice  icing  for  those  who  are  fond  of  very  sweet 
things.  Melt  a  cup  of  sugar  in  one-half  cup  of  water.  Boil  till  it  threads 
from  spoon,  then  beat  in  the  white  of  an  ng^  beaten  to  a  froth  and  stir  to 
a  smooth  cream.     Spread  this  icing  while  warm, 

Vermont  Housekeeper. 

GERANIUM  CAKE. 

Cream  one-half  teacupful  of  butter  with  one  cupful  of  pulverized 
sugar;  add,  gradually,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  water  and  two  rounded 
cupfuls  of  flour  which  have  been  sifted  with  two  tcaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder;  then  fold  in  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Line  a  square 
with  writing  paper,  butter  it  and  place  on  the  bottom  a  layer  of  rose- 
geranium  leaves.  Pour  the  mixture  over  the  leaves,  and  bake.  The 
result  will  be  a  delightful  flavor,  similar  to  the  odor  of  rose  petals;  the 
leaves  pull  off  readily.  Boil  one-third  of  a  teacupful  of  water  and  one  tea- 
cupful  of  sugar  till  it  hairs,  then  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream 
and  beat  till  cool;  pour  quickly  over.  G.  O.  A. 

HAPLE  SUGAR  CAKE. 

One  ^gg,  one  cup  of  shaved  maple  sugar,  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  sour 
cream,  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour;  beat  the  sugar  and  Qgg, 
add  the  dissolved  soda  to  the  cream,  then  stir  in  the  flour  and  bake.  To 
be  eaten  warm.  Vermont  Maple  Sugar  Housewife. 

SOUTHERN  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  cupful  each  of  butter,  sugar  and  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of  sour 
cream,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  sep- 
arately, one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves 
and  allspice,  and  one-fourth  of  a  nutmeg,  grated,  one-half  pint  of  seeded 
raisins,  one-half  cup  of  currants,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix  in 
order  named;  dissolve  soda  in  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  water  and  add 
last.     Bake  in  slow  oven.     Delicious.  Plantation  Recipe — Cloe. 


CAKES.  235 

DRIED  APPLE  PIE. 

Soak  four  cups  of  dried  apples  over  night  in  cold  water;  in  the  morn- 
ing drain  and  chop  fine;  stew  till  clear  in  two  cups  of  syrup.  Use  one  cup 
of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  buttermilk,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter, 
two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  mixed  spices 
and  one  nutmeg,  grated;  stir  quite  stiff  and  bake  slowly.  Add  any  kind 
of  fruit  you  like  or  a  pound  of  raisins.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Hilton. 

LOAF  FIG  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  the  whites  of 
three  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and  flour  to  make  dough. 
Wash  and  split  one-half  pound  of  figs;  put  in  a  deep  pan  a  layer  of  dough, 
then  one  of  figs.     Alternate  till  all  are  used  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Taintor. 
HONEY  CAKE. 

Stir  one-half  pint  of  sour  cream  into  a  pint  of  flour.  Add  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
cinnamon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  honey;  mix  thoroughly  and 
when  the  cake  is  ready  for  the  oven,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
dissolved  in  small  quantity  of  hot  water.  Beat  again  for  a  few  minutes, 
pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  mold,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven.  This 
cake  may  be  eaten  warm  if  wished.  Mrs.  Henrietta  Colby. 

GRAHAM  CAKE. 

Take  one  cup  each  of  raisins,  sugar  and  sour  cream;  stew  raisins  till 
tender  and  add  flour  to  them;  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  two  eggs;  stir  stiff  with  sifted  graham  flour  and  bake.  An  excellent 
cake.  M.  A.  C. 

BLACK  CAKE. 

Three  pounds  of  butter,  three  pounds  of  flour,  three  pounds  of  sugar, 
six  pounds  of  currants,  four  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  citron,  one 
ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  ounce  of  mace,  one  nutmeg,  thirty  eggs,  one  pint 
of  wine.  Mrs.  M.  Garribrant. 

MOTHER'S  TIP-TOP  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  two  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder;  flavor  to  suit. 

A.   V.   HOLCOMB. 


236  CAKES. 

WHITE  LOAF  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  corn-starch,  one-half  cup  of 
sweet  milk;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder;  flavor  with  a  few  drops 
of  lemon  or  vanilla  extract,  whites  of  six  eggs.  Mrs.  A.  P.  Lyon. 

•♦  REBECCA  "  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  (scant),  one 
beaten  ^^g,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk;  then  add  one  pint  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  all- 
spice; sift  three  times.  Miss  M.  Rusk. 

LINCOLN  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 

Mrs.  a.  Barton. 
CAKE  WITHOUT  BUTTER  OR  EGGS. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  sweet  cream,  four  cups  of  flour,  two 
small  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  currants  or  chopped 
raisins.  Sour  milk  or  buttermilk  can  be  used,  but  must  not  be  very  sour, 
small  piece  of  butter  may  be  added,  but  good  without;  season  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Mary  Yates. 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

(Good.) 

One  cup  fine  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  cream 
(more  milk  than  cream)  one  scant  tablespoonful  butter,  one  cup  of  flour 
sifted  with  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

LiLLIE. 
BEAUTIFUL  CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  butter,  five  cups  of  flour,  one  pound 
of  fruit,  one  cup  of  milk,  five  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Buchanan. 
SCRIPTURE  CAKE. 

Four  and  one-half  cups  of  i  Kings  4:28,  flour;  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
Judges  5:25,  butter,  L.  C;  two  cups  of  Jeremiah  6:20,  sugar;  two  cups  of 
I  Samuel  30:12,  raisins;  two  cups  of  Nahum  3:12,  figs;  one  cup  of  Num- 
bers 17:8,  almonds;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  i  Samuel  14:25,  honey;  season 
to  taste  with  2  Chronicles  9:9,  spices;  six  of  Jeremiah  17:11,  eggs;  a  pinch 
of  Leviticus,  salt;   one  and  one-half  cups  of  Judges  4:19,  milk,  L.  C;    two 


CAKES.  237 

teaspoonfuls  of  Amos  4:5,  baking-powder.  Follow  Solomon's  prescrip- 
tion for  making  a  good  boy  by  Proverbs  23:14— "thou  shall  beat  him  well 
with  a  rod" — and  you  will  have  a  good  cake. 

Mrs.  Cynthia  Pullman. 
CAMPAIGN  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of-  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream;  to 
this  add  one  cup  of  cold  water  and  three  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  five  times.  Then  add  the  whites  of  five 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Vroman. 
WHITE  LILY  CAKE. 

Whites  of  six  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  floiir,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking-powder.     Use  any  flavoring  desired. 

Miss  Daisy  Thomas. 

WHITE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

The  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  pulverized  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Sift  the  flour,  sugar  and  cream  of  tartar  together  several  times,  then  add 
about  one-half  of  it  slowly  to  the  eggs,  then  put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sweet  milk;  add  the  remainder  of  the  flour  and  stir  for  a  few  seconds. 
Flavor  with  lemon  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.       Mrs.  M.  McDuffie. 

BREAD  CAKE   (RAISED). 

When  making  wheat  bread,  as  soon  as  the  dough  is  light  enough  for 
the  oven,  take  off  enough  for  a  large  loaf,  mix  with  it  a  teacupful  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  the  same  of  butter  that  has  been  mixed  smooth  with  a  cup  of 
warm  milk.  Add  a  beaten  egg,  knead  well,  put  into  a  square  pan,  dust 
it  with  flour,  cover,  and  set  it  to  rise  again.  As  soon  as  it  is  light,  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  and  wrap  at  once  on  taking  out,  in  a  thick  cloth. 

Mrs.  Sally  Graham. 
STOLLA  (RAISED  CAKE). 

Take  nine  cups  of  flour  and  set  with  two  cents'  worth  of  yeast,  three 
cups  of  milk.  Set  this  about  one  hour  before  making  stiff.  Put  the  yeast 
and  milk  in  the  center  of  the  flour.  When  raised  add  two  eggs,  one  and 
one-quarter  cups  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  salt,  rind  of  a 
lemon,  a  little  sugared  or  candied  orange,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  cit- 
ron, one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy,  one 


238  CAKES. 

pound  of  seedless  raisins.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the 
eggs,  and  mix  this  with  the  other  ingredients,  and  then  work  all  the  flour 
in.  Let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  make  into  loaves  and  let  rise 
again.     Then  bake  a  little  more  than  an  hour.  Mrs.  Casper. 

CHOCOLATE  MARBLE  CAKE. 

Put  one  ounce  of  chocolate  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  cup, 
and  set  this  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water.  Beat  to  a  cream  one-half  cup  of 
butter  and  one  cup  of  sugar.  Gradually  beat  in  half  a  cup  of  milk. 
Now  add  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla,  and  a  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sifted  flour,  in  which  is  mixed 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder.  Put  about  one-third  of  this  mixture 
into  another  bowl  and  stir  the  melted  butter  and  chocolate  into  it.  Drop 
the  white-and-brown  mixture  in  spoonfuls  into  a  well-buttered,  deep  cake- 
pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  forty-five  minutes;  or,  the 
cake  can  be  baked  in  a  sheet  and  iced  with  a  chocolate  or  white  icing. 

Maria  Parloa. 

WASHINGTON  CAKE. 

Cream  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  one  and  one-fourth 
pounds  of  brown  sugar.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk  and  one  and  three-fourths  pounds  of  sifted  flour  into  which 
has  been  sifted  two  teaspoonfuls  (reserving  a  little  of  the  flour  to  mix  with 
the  fruit).  Then  add  three-fc5urths  of  a  pound  of  currants,  one-half 
pound  of  seedless  raisins,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron,  sliced,  and  one- 
half  of  a  nutmeg,  grated,  and  lastly,  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  very 
slowly  for  two  hours.  J.  A.  B. 

PORK  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  three  cups  of  boiling  water, 
three  cups  of  molasses,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  two 
pounds  of  raisins  (chopped  and  rubbed  in  flour),  one  grated  nutmeg,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cloves  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon;  stiffen  with 
flour.     Long  bread-pans  are  nicest  in  which  to  bake  the  cake. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Huff. 

LOAF  COCOANUT  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  one  rounding  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of 
grated  cocoanut  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  beat  butter  and  sugar  till  light  and 
creamy,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  flour,  salt  and  baking-powder 


CAKES,  239 

sifted  together  alternately  with  the  cocoanut;  lastly,  fold  in  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  gently,  so  as  not  to  destroy  their  lightness.  Bake  in  a  steady 
oven  about  forty  minutes.  Mrs.  Julia  Cross. 

HARRISON  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  of  but- 
ter, three  eggs,  four  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  and 
one  pound  of  seedless  raisins.     Spice  to  suit  taste.     Put  together  as  above. 

Mrs.  Henrietta  Hildreth. 

SILVER  OR  GOLD  CAKE. 

A  generous  half-cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar, 
two  full  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  the  whites  of  eight 
eggs.  The  gold  cake  is  made  with  precisely  the  same  ingredients  save 
that  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  are  used.  A.  O.  W. 

i 

CHOCOLATE  LOAF  CAKE. 

Take  one  and  three-fourths  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-fourth  of 
a  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one-quarter  of  a  cake  of  chocolate  dissolved 
in  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water.  Put  the  chocolate  in  last.  Flavor  with 
vanilla;  stir  hard.  N.  Gaylord. 

THANKSQIVINQ  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  pound  each  of  butter,  sugar  and  flour,  ten  eggs,  yellows  and 
whites  beaten  separately,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  two  pounds  of  seeded 
raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  allspice,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  mace;  flour  the  raisins 
and  currants  so  that  they  will  not  settle  to  the  bottom  of  the  cake.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven  four  hours.  Mrs.  S.  D.  Hillier. 

CHOCOLATE  GLACE  CAKE. 

(Loaf  Style.) 

Beat  to  a  cream  a  generous  half-cup  of  butter,  and  gradually  beat 
into  this  one  cup  of  sugar.  Add  one  ounce  of  chocolate,  melted;  also, 
two  unbeaten  eggs;  beat  vigorously  for  five"minutes,  then  stir  in  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  and  lastly  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  with  which  has  been 
mixed  one  generous  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder.  Flavor  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  pour  into  a  buttered,  shallow  cake-pan,  and  bake 
for  one-half  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.     When  cool,  spread  with  glace  icing. 

Glace  Icing. — Put  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 


240  CAKES, 

water  in  a  small  saucepan.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is  nearly  melted. 
Take  the  spoon  from  the  pan  before  the  sugar  really  begins  to  boil  because 
it  would  spoil  the  icing  if  the  syrup  were  stirred  after  it  begins  to  boil.  After 
boiling  gently  for  four  minutes,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract, 
but  do  not  stir;  then  set  away  to  cool.  When  the  syrup  is  about  blood 
warm,  beat  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thick  and  white.  Now  put  the 
saucepan  in  another  with  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  the  icing  is  thin 
enough  to  pour.     Spread  quickly  on  the  cake.  Maria  Parloa. 

NEWPORT  CAKE. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  It  requires  about  one  cup  of  milk  to  make  stiff 
batter.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven;  eat  warm  or  cold  as  liked.  It  is  nice  for  a 
tea  dish,  and  the  children  like  it.  Annie  Goddard. 

PORK  CAKE— No.  2. 

A  very  rich  cake  is  made  of  the  following  ingredients:  Chop  one 
pound  of  fat  pork  very  fine,  stone  and  chop  one  pound  of  raisins;  pour  a 
pint  of  boiling  water  over  the  pork.  Mix  with  this  one  cup  of  molasses, 
two  cups  of  sugar,  eight  cups  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cloves, 
one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda,  one  ^^^\  add 
the  white  of  the  egg  last.  Mrs.  Sarah  Royce. 

WATERMELON  CAKE. 

For  the  white  part  take  two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  but- 
ter, the  same  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  a  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking-powder  sifted  into  three  cups  of  flour,  any  flavoring  you  pre- 
fer. For  the  red  part  take  one  cup  of  red  sugar,  commonly  called  sugar 
sand,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups 
of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  the  whites  of  five  eggs  and 
one-half  pound  of  raisins  or  English  currants  for  the  seeds.  In  filling  the 
cake  pan  put  the  white  part  outside  and  the  red  part  inside.  Just  before 
putting  it  into  the  oven  drop  in  your  seeds  where  they  belong. 

Mrs.  Alice  George, 

COCOANUT  LOAF  CAKE— No.  2. 

Use  one  cup  of  butter,  four  eggs  (beaten  separately),  two  cups  of  white 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  pound  of  dessicated  cocoanut. 


CAKES.  241 

one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder;    flour  must  be  sifted  in  so  as  to  make 

a  soft  batter  but  not  soft  enough  to  run.     Bake  slowly. 

Clara  Buckley. 
ANGEL  FOOD. 

The  whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  sift  flour  and  sugar  separately  ten  times.  Add  sugar  and  flour,  a 
little  at  a  time,  to  the  eggs.  Bake  forty  minutes.  Use  a  pan  which  has 
never  been  greased.  Mrs.  Ellen  Catlin. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

Use  the  whites  of  nine  large  eggs,  a  heaping  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
a  cup  of  flour  sifted  five  times  before  measuring,  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking-powder,  a  dash  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  lemon  and 
vanilla  flavoring.  Separate  the  eggs,  add  salt  and  baking-powder  to  the 
whites  and  beat  till  very  stiff;  add  sugar  and  flavoring,  beat  thoroughly, 
then  carefully  turn  in  the  flour.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifty  minutes. 

B.  A.  Nathan. 
BRIDE  CAKE. 

As  weddings  are  always  in  style,  and  as  a  cake  made  at  home  is  not 
only  more  inexpensive,  but  also  more  desirable  from  the  fact  that  the 
prospective  bride  usually  compounds  it,  we  give  a  very  carefully  prepared 
recipe  for  that  purpose.  This  cake  improves  by  being  made  some  time 
beforehand.  The  following  ingredients  are  necessary:  One  and  one-half 
pounds  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  butter,  one-half  pound  of 
candied  lemon,  one-half  pound  of  candied  orange,  one-half  pound  of  can- 
died citron,  one  pound  of  dried  cherries,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  dried 
currants  (if  the  cherries  are  not  used,  take  two  and  one-half  pounds  of 
currants  instead),  eight  ounces  of  almonds,  eight  eggs,  the  rind  of  four 
oranges  or  of  two  lemons  rubbed  upon  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of  spices, 
consisting  of  powdered  cinnamon,  grated  nutmeg,  and  powdered  cloves  in 
equal  proportions,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  small  tumbler  of  brand}^ 
If  objected  to,  the  brandy  may  be  omitted,  and  another  &gg  may  be 
added.  Wash,  pick,  and  dry  the  currants,  cut  the  cherries  into  moderate- 
sized  pieces,  slice  the  candied  peel  into  thin  shreds,  blanch  and  pound  the 
almonds,  or  cut  them  into  very  small  pieces,  and  crush  the  flavored  sugar 
to  powder.  Put  the  butter  into  a  large  bowl,  and  beat  it  to  a  cream,  either 
with  a  wooden  spoon  or  with  the  hand.  Add  very  gradually  the  sugar, 
flour,  and  eggs,  and  when  they  are  thoroughly  mixed  work  in  the  rest  of 
the  ingredients,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  beat  the  cake  between  every  addi- 


242  CAKES. 

tion.  Beat  it  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Line  a  tin  hoop  with  double 
folds  of  buttered  paper,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  place  it  on  a  metal  bak- 
ing-sheet with  twelve  folds  of  paper  under  it,  and  four  or  five  on  the  top, 
to  keep  it  from  burning.  Put  it  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  and  keep 
the  oven  at  an  even  temperature  until  it  is  done. 

If  the  cake  is  to  be  iced,  first  prepare  the  almond  part:  Take  one-half 
pound  of  almonds,  throw  them  into  boiling  water,  and  skin  them.  Pound 
them  in  a  mortar  with  a  few  drops  of  orange-flower  water,  one  pound  of 
fine  white  sugar,  and  as  much  white  of  egg  as  will  make  a  soft  stiff  paste. 
Spread  this  over  the  top  of  the  cake  and  keep  it  from  the  edge  as  much 
as  possible.  Put  it  in  a  cool  oven,  or  in  a  warm  place,  till  it  is  dry  and 
hard.  To  make  the  sugar  icing,  put  two  pounds  of  icing  sugar  into  a 
bowl  and  work  into  it  the  whites  of  two,  or  if  necessary  three,  or  even 
four,  eggs.  The  whites  must  not  be  whisked,  but  thrown  in  as  they  are. 
Work  the  mixture  to  a  stiff  shiny  paste,  and  whilst  working  it  add  occa- 
sionally a  drop  of  lemon  juice.  Be  careful  to  obtain  icing  sugar.  If  a 
drop  of  liquid  blue  is  added  it  will  look  whiter.  The  icing  needs  to  be 
worked  vigorously  to  make  a  paste  which  will  not  run,  and  the  fewer  eggs 
used  the  better.  The  cake  should  not  be  iced  until  a  short  time  before  it 
is  wanted,  as  it  may  become  soiled.  Spread  the  icing  evenly  over  with 
hands  wet  with  cold  water,  then  smooth  with  an  ivory  knife,  and  put 
it  in  gentle  oven  to  harden.  Ornament  the  cake  with  little  knobs  of  icing 
placed  round  the  edge;  and  on  the  day  of  the  wedding  a  wreath  of  white 
flowers  and  ^reen  leaves  may  be  placed  round  it  by  way  of  beautifying, 
or  any  more  elaborate  ornamentation  that  may  suggest  itself. 

Mildred  H. 
CONVENTION  CAKE. 

One  teacupful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  one 
cupful  of  currants,  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Bake  or  steam  forty  minutes.  This  cake  can  be  eaten  hot  with  a  sauce  as 
a  pudding  or  cut  up  cold  for  tea.  Julia  Marvin. 

POUND  CAKE. 

Take  one  pound  and  fourteen  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  one  pound 
and  two  ounces  of  butter,  twelve  eggs,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk, 
three-fourths  of  an  ounce  of  baking-bowder,  three  and  one-half  pounds  of 
sifted  flour;  beat  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  rub  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  together; 
then  let  stand  till  stiff  and  beat  in  milk  and,  lastly,  the  flour. 

Catharine  Hayden. 


CAKES.  U^ 

BLACK   FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  butter,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  stoned,  two  pounds  of 
currants  carefully  washed  and  one  pound  of  dark  brown  sugar,  one-half 
pound  of  citron,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice,  nutmeg, 
cloves  and  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  New  Orleans  or  black  molasses, 
seven  eggs,  one  pound  of  flour  and  enough  sour  milk  to  mix  it  quite  stiff. 
Bake  slowly.  I.  M.  Dell. 

GOLD  CAKE— No.  2. 

Beat  well  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  one- 
quarter  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder;  cream  the  butter 
and  sugar  together.  Beat  the  yolks  thoroughly  and  stir  in  the  butter  and 
sugar;  add  the  milk,  then  the  flour,  and  stir  hard.  Bake  in  a  cake  mold 
about  forty  minutes.  B.  Stagey. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

(Made  of  Ko-nut.) 

Two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  Ko-nut  creamed  with  one  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls of  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add  three  eggs  beaten 
light,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one  cupful  of  water,  three  cupfuls  of 
flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Melt  two  ounces  of  Baker's 
chocolate  in  one  tablespoonful  of  Ko-nut  and  add  to  one-third  of  above 
mixture.     When  filling  the  pan  alternate  the  dark  and  light  dough. 

Myrtie  E.  Robinson. 
SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

Use  whites  of  ten  eggs,  yolks  of  six,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar, one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sifted  pulverized  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
flour,  the  grated  peel  of  one  orange.  Beat  whites  till  stiff,  then  cream  in 
one-half  of  the  sugar;  beat  the  yolks  very  light,  add  flavoring  and  balance 
of  sugar;  put  yolks  and  whites  together  and  add  flour  and  cream  of  tar- 
tar; mix  quickly.  Put  in  angel-cake  pan.  Bake  about  one  hour  in  a  slow 
oven.  Hilda  Vanquist. 

VELVET  SPONQE  CAKE. 

Sift  five  times  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  flour,  also  sift  five  times  one 
half  cupful  of  granulated  sugar.  Whip  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  stiff 
froth,  add  when  partially  beaten  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar.  Beat  in  the  sugar,  then  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  lastly  the  flour, 
stirring  very  lightly  after  adding  the  flour.  Fla\  or  with  vanilla.  Bake  in 
an  unbuttered  pan  forty-five  minutes.  Gretta  Tibbitts. 


244  CAKES. 

IDEAL  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder,  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  hot  water,  grated 
rind  of  lemon.  Stir  together  until  creamy  the  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs;  add  the  flour  and  baking-powder  which  have  previously  been  sifted 
together  four  times;  then  add  the  hot  water;  stir  well  until  smooth  and 
velvet-like;  next  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff;  flavor  with  lemon. 
The  batter  may  seem  too  thin,  but  will  be  all  right.  L.  B.  M. 

CORN=STARCH   CAKE. 

One-half  cupful  of  starch,  one-half  cupful  of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of 
fine  granulated  sugar,  one-third  cupful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing-powder and  two  small  eggs.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  to  it  the 
sugar,  then  the  eggs,  and  mix  all  well  together.  Stir  in  the  flour,  corn- 
starch and  baking-powder  previously  sifted  together.  Beat  for  five  min- 
utes and  bake  immediately  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done  remove 
from  the  pan  and  stand  the  cake  on  its  side  to  prevent  its  getting  heavy. 

B.  I.  T. 
OLD-FASHIONED   SEED  CAKE. 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  but- 
ter or  clarified  drippings,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  one  ^gg,  about 
two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  caraway  seeds  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Stir  together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking-powder,  rub  in  the 
butter  lightly,  and  add  the  sugar  and  seeds.  Beat  the  egg  light  and  add 
it  with  the  milk.     Bake  one  hour  in  a  steady  oven.  Mrs.  T.  J.  G. 

LEMON   CAKE. 

Two  scant  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  three  eggs, 
two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  rounding  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Beat  the  butter  with  half  the  sugar,  then  add  gradually 
the  remainder  of  sugar,  with  the  well-beaten  eggs;  next  put  in  the  grated 
lemon  rind,  being  careful  not  to  use  any  of  the  white  pith.  Lastly  stir 
in  the  flour  with  which  the  baking-powder  and  salt  have  been  sifted,  alter- 
nately with  the  milk.  Bake  about  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
cover  with  lemon  frosting.  W.  T.  M. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
one-half  cupful  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  level  tea- 


CAKES.  245 

spoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and  the  grated  rind  and  strained  juice  of  one 
orange.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  the  melted  butter,  then 
the  milk  and  lastly  the  flour  and  baking-powder  sifted  together.  Stir  in 
the  orange  rind  and  juice  just  before  putting  into  the  pan.  Bake  about 
thirty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  L.  E.  P. 

CHEAP  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  hot  water,  one  cup- 
ful of  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  pinch  of 
salt  and  the  grated  rind  of  one-half  of  a  lemon.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  with  half  the  sugar,  then  add  the  water,  the  remaining  sugar,  the 
lemon  rind  and  the  flour  sifted  with  baking-powder  and  salt.  Lastly  fold 
in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  bake  twenty-five  min- 
utes in  a  buttered  and  floured  shallow  pan.  H.  F.  L. 

HOT  WATER  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Four  eggs  beaten  to  a  foam,  two  scant  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of 
sifted  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  two-thirds  cupful  of  boil- 
ing water.     Flavor  to  taste.  Gracia  Rulo. 

COCOA  CAKE. 

(All  measurements  should  be  jevel.) 

One-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  milk,  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
cocoa,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and  one  and  one-half  to  two 
cupfuls  of  sifted  pastry  flour.  Cream  the  butter  in  a  warm  dish  until  soft, 
but  not  melted.  Stir  in  the  sugar  gradually,  beating  well;  then  the  beaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs;  also  the  vanilla.  Sift  the  baking-powder  and  cocoa 
with  one-half  cupful  of  the  flour  and  stir  this  into  the  mixture  first;  then 
alternate  the  milk  and  the  flour,  using  enough  flour  to  make  the  mixture 
stiff  enough  to  drop  from  the  spoon.  Beat  vigorously,  then  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  a  loaf  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
thirty-five  or  forty  minutes,  according  to  the  size  and  shape  of  the  pan. 

Miss  Elizabeth  K.  Burr. 

B0N5ALINA  CAKE. 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  one- 
half  cupful  of  milk,  five  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Bake 
in  hearts  and  rounds.  Addie  Mellen. 


246  CAKES. 


DATE  CAKE. 


Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  dates,  two  cupfuls  of 
walnuts,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Bake  one-half  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Mrs.  Libbie  Sales. 

SOUR  CREAM  NUT  CAKE. 

(Fine. ) 

Break  two  eggs  in  a  large  cup  and  fill  the  cup  with  sour  cream.  Put 
in  a  mixing  bowl  and  add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  beat  all  well,  then  add  enough  flour  to  make  quite  stiff,  and  flavor 
with  vanilla.  Take  one  pound  of  English  walnuts,  chop  all  but  what  you 
wish  to  put  on  top  of  the  cake,  and  stir  into  the  batter.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.     Ice  the  top  and  lay  on  the  half  meats.  Mary  L.  Rowley. 

BOSTON  TEA  CAKE. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls of  sugar,  two  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.     Bake  this  cake  twenty  minutes. 

E.  Harmon. 
COCOANUT  LOAF  CAKE— No.  3. 

Beat  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter  to  a  cream;  add  gradually  one  cupful 
of  powdered  sugar,  then  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  milk,  then  one  cupful 
of  cocoanut,  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  to  two  cupfuls 
of  flour  and  sift;  add  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  fold  in  lightly  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  four  eggs;  bake  in  a  loaf.  This  same  recipe  makes 
an  excellent  white  cake  by  leaving  out  the  cocoanut.  C.  A.  R. 

nOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
flour,  six  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder;  make  a  frosting  of  three  eggs 
and  lay  the  same  as  for  jelly  cake.  Flavor  the  cake  with  lemon  and  the 
frosting  with  vanilla.  M.  Y.  Pease. 

MRS.  LOTT'S  CINNAMON  CAKE. 

One  pound  each  of  flour,  sugar  and  butter,  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  high;  flavor.  Cut  thin  and  bake  quickly;  watch  to  see  that  they 
do  not  burn.  When  done  wash  with  the  white  of  an  ^^^  and  powdered 
cinnamon.  Blanched  almonds  may  be  used,  in  which  case  less  butter  is 
needed.  Contributed. 


CAKES.  247 

PLAIN  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cupfiils  of  butter,  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  five  cup- 
fuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sour  cream,  five  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
soda,  cinnamon  and  cloves  and  one  small  glassful  of  grape  juice.  Use 
nutmeg,  raisins  and  currants  to  taste.  If  the  cream  is  rich  add  one  spoon- 
ful more  of  fiour.  Mrs.  James  Woodruff. 

PICNIC  CAKE. 

The  ingredients  needed  for  making  two  medium-sized  cakes  are:  one 
and  one-quarter  pounds  of  flour,  one-half  pound  of  currants,  the  same  of 
sugar,  six  ounces  of  butter,  three  eggs,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 
six  drops  of  essence  of  lemon  (or  small  quantity  of  grated  nutmeg)  and 
one  teacupful  of  milk.  First  well  mix  all  the  drv  ingredients,  lastly  add- 
ing the  eggs  and  milk;  beat  well  for  a  few  minutes  and  bake  at  once. 

Mrs.  Sally  O'Connell. 

PLAIN  NUT  CAKE. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupfuls  of  flour, 
one  cupful  of  cold  water,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar;  mix  well  and  last  of, all  add  two  cupfuls  of 
kernels  of  hickory  nuts  or  walnuts,  stir  in  thoroughly.      Mrs.  E.  Ford. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

Use  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  butter,  one  cupful  of  strong  coffee,  one  &^g,,  or  yolks  of  two,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  cit- 
ron. Soften  the  butter,  beat  with  the  sugar,  add  the  eggs,  spices,  molasses 
and  coffee,  then  the  flour,  and  lastly  the  fruit  dredged  with  flour. 

Mrs.  H.  O.  Payne. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

(None  Better.) 

One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ginger,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  two  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  flour;  add  two  well-beaten  eggs  the  last  thing  before 
bakinor.  Mrs.  Katharine  Douglass. 


248  CAKES. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD— No.  2. 

One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ginger,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  two  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  flour;  add  two  well-beaten  eggs  the  last  thing  before 
baking.     (This  is  excellent.)  Mrs.  E.  Wallace. 

PLAIN  GINGERBREAD. 

One  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  boiling 
water;  dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  hot  water;  use  one-half  coffee- 
cupful  of  shortening,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger  and  a  little  salt.  Add 
flour  enough  to  make  it  pretty  stiff.  Mrs.  Charlotte  Gooding. 

CHOCOLATE  GINGERBREAD. 

Mix  in  a  large  bowl  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of  sour 
milk  or  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  cold  water;  add  this  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter to  the  mixture.  Now  stir  in  two  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  and  finally  add 
two  ounces  of  chocolate  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  melted  together. 
Pour  the  mixture  into  three  well-buttered  deep  tin  plates,  and  bake  in  a 
moderately-hot  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Maria  Parloa. 

MOLASSES  GINGERBREAD. 

One  cupful  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-quarter 
cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  warm  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  the  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  three  and  one-half  cupfuls 
of  flour.     When  taking  this  from  the  oven,  do  not  invert  the  pan. 

H.  Bailey. 

PLAIN  GINGERBREAD— No.  2. 

Melt  one  pound  of  butter  in  one  quart  of  molasses  that  has  been 
heated,  take  one-half  pound  of  dark  brown  sugar,  six  eggs,  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  ground  ginger,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  allspice, 
two  ounces  of  ground  cloves,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  soda  beaten  into  the 
molasses  and  three  pounds  of  sifted  flour.  This  amount  can  be  reduced 
for  a  small  family.  Make  it  into  loaves  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Eat  it  cold.  Harriet  Haight. 


CAKES.  249 

Ld^yer  Cd^kes  and  Fillings  for  Same. 

NUT  FILLING. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  to 
an  Qgg,  one  cupful  of  chopped  hickory  or  any  nuts;  frost  the  top  with 
plain  frosting  and  lay  on  the  nuts  whole.  Lavinia  Graves. 

ORANQE  PINEAPPLE  FILLING. 

Grate  three  oranges,  rind  and  pulp,  take  out  seeds  and  add  one  cup- 
ful of  grated  pineapple.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir 
into  oranges  and  pineapple  and  sweeten  to  taste.     Spread  thickly  between 

layers.  Emily. 

HEATHER  FILLING. 

Boil  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar  with  six  tablespoon- 

fuls  of  water  until  it  drops  from  the  spoon  in  threads.     Have  ready  beaten 

the  white  of  one  egg  and  pour  the  syrup  slowly  into  it,  beating  all  the  time; 

flavor  with  extract  of  almonds.     Spread  between  layers  while  warm  and 

sprinkle  each  layer  thickly  with  dessicated  cocoanut.     Ice  the  top  in  the 

same  manner  and  sprinkle  cocoanut  all  over  the  cake. 

Mrs.  L.  p.  M. 
CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

Beat  together  thoroughly  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  enough  confec- 
tioners' or  powdered  sugar  to  make  a  rather  soft  frosting  (about  one  and 
one-half  cupfuls),  then  stir  into  it  one  square  of  chocolate,  previously 
melted.     Beat  all  well  together  before  using.  Lida  M.  Smith. 

ORANGE  FILLING. 

Take  the  juice  of  a  large,  ripe  orange.  Beat  sugar  with  it  till  of  con- 
sistence to  spread.  Stir  till  it  is  smooth  and  creamy;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
the  yolk  of  an  Qgg.     This  amount  should  cover  three  layers. 

Mrs.  G.  Pope. 
CARAMEL  FILLING. 

One  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  butter  the  size 
of  an  ^gg;  boil  till  thick  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  This  must  be  spread  on 
the  cake  before  the  filling  is  cold.  May  Lester. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING— No.  2. 

Take  one  pound  of  Baker's  cocoa  to  four  pounds  of  white  sugar;  mix 
thoroughly  with  cold  water  to  a  thin  paste.  Put  over  fire  and  stir  till 
smooth.     Let  it  cool.     For  layer  cake  this  must  be  made  quite  thick. 

Mrs.  Louise  Cole. 


250  CAKES. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING— No.  3. 

(Uncooked.) 

Melt  one-quarter  of  a  cake  of  chocolate  in  one-quarter  of  a  cupful  of 
hot  water;  stir  in  confectioners'  sugar  till  thick  enough  to  spread.  Keep 
warm,  but  do  not  boil.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Stir  till 
smooth.     This  will  answer  for  three  layers.  Mrs.  Julia  Hoffman. 

FIG  FILLING. 

Take  a  cupful  of  figs,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  into  a  granite  pan  on 
the  stove;  pour  over  them  one-fourth  of  a  teacupful  of  water  and  add  one- 
h^lf  cupful  of  sugar.  Cook  all  together  until  it  will  hair  from  the  spoon. 
Spread  between  layers  of  cake.  C.  A.  M. 

FRUIT  FILLING. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  citron,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped 
seeded  raisins,  one-half  cupful  of  blanched  almonds,  chopped  fine,  also 
four  tablespoonful  of  finely-chopped  figs;  boil  three  minutes  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  dissolved  in  water.  Beat  the  white  of  one  egg 
to  a  stiff  froth,  then  mix  thoroughly  into  this  the  whole  of  the  chopped 
ingredients.     Put  it  between  the  layers  of  cake  when  hot.  S.  T.  O. 

BANANA,  PEACH  OR  PINEAPPLE  FILLING. 

Cut  bananas  into  thin  slices  and  sweeten;  prepare  a  cream  by  thor- 
oughly sweetening  and  whipping.  Put  a  layer  of  fruit  between  the  layers 
of  cake  and  pour  cream  over  each  layer  and  over  the  top.  C.  I.  A. 

APPLE  FILLING. 

Peel  and  slice  tart,  ripe  apples,  put  them  on  the  fire  with  sugar  to 
suit;  when  tender,  remove,  rub  them,  beat  thoroughly  and  add  a  small 
piece  of  butter.  When  cold,  spread  between  the  layers.  Cover  the  cake 
with  icing.  R-  A.  P. 

PRAIRIE  CAKE. 
(Excellent.) 

One  cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  soda  in  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  two  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls  of  flour,  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten  and  added  last;  for  filling  take 
ten  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water  and  two  cupfuls  of  sugar;  boil  until  it 
will  hair,  and  pour  over  the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs  and  one  cupful  of 
chopped  and  seeded  raisins;  mix  and  spread  at  once  over  layers  and  on 
top.    Try  it.  Mrs.  I.  H.  Hoffman. 


CAKES.  251 

WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet 
milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  cupful  of  flour;  stir  the 
sugar  in  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  then  add  the  whites  beaten  stiff, 
milk,  flour,  etc.     Bake  in  two  jelly  tins  eight  or  ten  minutes. 

Filling. — Whip  one  cup  of  thick,  sweet  cream,  then  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  pulverized  sugar,  season  with  vanilla  and  pour  between  and 
on  top  of  layers.     To  be  eaten  while  fresh.  Mrs.  I.  H.  Hoffman. 

PINEAPPLE  CAKE. 

Yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten  together,  one  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water,  two  cupfuls 
of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar; 
make  in  layers  and  between  and  on  top  spread  one  can  of  grated  pine- 
apple with  the  juice  of  one  lemon  sweetened  to  taste;  with  this  mix 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  vanilla.  Lena  Mather. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PIES  (CAKE). 

Beat  to  a  cream  one-half  cupful  of  butter  and  one  and  one-quarter 
cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  generous 
half  cupful  of  milk  and  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  with  which 
has  been  mixed  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Bake 
this  in  four  well-buttered,  deep  tin  plates  for  about  fifteen  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Put  one-half  pint  of  milk  in  the  double  boiler  and  on  the  fire.  Beat 
together  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  a  level  tablespoonful  of  flour;  stir  this  mixture  into  the  boiling  milk, 
beating  well;  add  one-sixth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  often.  When  cooked,  flavor  with  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  extract.  Put  two  of  the  cakes  on  two  large  plates,  spread  the 
cream  over  them  and  lay  the  other  two  cakes  on  top.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  then  beat  into  them  one  cupful  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Shave  one  ounce  of  choco- 
late and  put  it  in  a  small  pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  boiling  water.  Stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and 
glossy.  Now  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk  and  stir  into  the 
beaten  ^%%  and  sugar.     Spread  on  the  pies  and  set  away  for  a  few  hours. 

Maria  Parloa. 


252  CAKES. 

DANDY  OHIO  CAKE. 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  not  quite  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  three 
cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs  and  three  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking-powder;  when  mixed  put  two-thirds  of  the  mixture  in  two 
tins;  to  the  remaining  one-third  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses, 
one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon 
and  one  cupful  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped.  Bake  this  in  third  tin. 
Put  the  three  layers  together  with  the  dark  in  the  center  with  frosting 
between  and  on  top. 

Notice. — In  mixing,  put  together  the  usual  way,  except  reserve  one- 
half  cupful  of  flour  till  the  last  and  in  it  stir  the  baking-powder,  adding  a 
very  little  pinch  of  salt.  Mrs.  M.  E.  St.  Clair. 

ILLINOIS  CAKE. 

Five  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking-powder,  three  cupfuls  of  flour  and  one  cupful  of  milk;  flavor 
with  vanilla. 

Filling. — One  cupful  of  sugar  and  enough  water  to  dissolve  the 
sugar;  put  in  a  pan  and  let  it  simmer  on  the  stove  until  it  candies.  Then 
chop  fine  one  cupful  of  seedless  raisins.  Stir  them  in  the  candied  sugar, 
beat  two  eggs  to  a  froth  and,  last  of  all,  stir  them  in;  flavor  slightly  with 
vanilla.  Spread  as  you  would  other  filling.  This  makes  two  small  cakes. 
One-half  the  amount  will  be  sufficient  for  most  families. 

Mrs.  Minerva  Lane. 

MINNEHAHA  CAKE. 

Take  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  one-quarter  of  a 
cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  thoroughly. 
For  filling  use  one  cupful  of  stoned,  raisins,  one  cupful  of  hickory  nut 
meats,  chopped  fine,  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Cover  these  with  water  and 
boil  down  until  thick  enough  to  spread  on  cake.  Mrs.  H.  P.  Jones. 

MAPLE  LAYER  CAKE. 

Make  the  above  layer  cake.  For  a  filling  take  two  cupfuls  of  maple 
sugar  (shaved),  add  one  cupful  of  water  and  boil  until  it  waxes  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  butter;  stir  speedily  and  put  between  the  layers.     A  delicious  cake. 

Mrs.  J.  Aden. 


CAKES.  253 

MARSHMALLOW  CAKE. 

Cream  together  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one-half  cupful  of 
sugar,  add  the  yolk  of  one  ^%%,  then  one  cupful  of  milk;  fold  in  the  beaten 
white  of  one  ^^%  and  lastly  stir  in  gradually  two  cupfuls  of  flour  which  has 
been  sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Bake  in  three  lay- 
ers. Take  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  marshmallows;  divide  in  three  parts; 
when  the  cakes  come  from  the  oven  place  one-third  of  the  marshmallows 
on  each  layer;  put  each  layer  in  the  oven  until  the  marshmallows  run 
together;  now  place  one  laj^er  above  the  other  and  serve  while  hot. 

O.  T.  F. 
COCOANUT  CREAM  CAKE. 

(Excellent  with  rich  cream.) 

Take  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  teacupful  of  rich,  sour 
cream,  two  eggs  (well  beaten),  any  kind  of  flavoring  and  lastly  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  in  two  cupfuls  of  flour.  Beat  all  well,  bake  in 
layers  in  moderately  hot  oven. 

FiLLiNG.^Take  the  heavy,  sweet  cream  from  one  pan  of  milk  and 
beat  until  stiff;  add  a  little  sugar  and  beat  again;  spread  between  the 
layers  and  on  top.  Over  the  sweetened  cream  sprinkle  fresh  grated 
cocoanut.     To  be  eaten  while  fresh,  Mrs.  L.  A.  Hall. 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE. 

The  yolk  of  one  ^^^  and  the  whites  of  three,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one 
and  three-fourths  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one-half 
cupful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar.     Bake  in  loaf. 

Icing. — Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  to  which  add  eight  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar,  and  flavor  to  taste.  Mae  Brown. 

MICHIGAN  FRUIT  CAKE  (LAYER). 

One  scant  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  three  cupfuls  of  flour 
(measured  before  sifting),  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Price's  baking-powder, 
rounded  up,  but  not  heaping,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk  or  milk  and  water, 
the  whites  of  six  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  extract;  cream  the 
butter  carefully,  adding  sugar,  a  little  at  a  time  and  mixing  thoroughly. 
Add  the  milk  gradually,  then  flour  and  well-beaten  whites  alternately, 
mixing  thoroughly.  For  the  filling  make  icing  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
and  one  cupful  of  sugar,  using  recipe  for  boiled  icing.  Put  a  portion  of 
the  icing  in  separate  dish  and  stir  into  it  one  cup  of  raisins,  cut  fine,  mixed 
with  citron  and  a  few  currants  and  spread  between  the  layers.  Ice  the 
outside  with  the  rest  of  the  icing.  C  W.  Hamilton. 


254  CAKES. 

HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE. 

Make  a  sponge  of  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  brown 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  unsifted  flour  and  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder;  this  quantity  makes  three  cakes 
by  dividing  it  into  three  parts.  Lay  each  part  upon  a  pie  plate  and  flatten 
it  well  with  the  palm  of  the  hand.  You  can't  roll  this,  as  it  is  too  soft. 
Of  course,  the  huckleberries  have  been  picked  nice  and  clean,  so  put  on  a 
deep  layer  of  them  first.  Put  sugar  over  the  berries  and  pour  a  custard 
over  them.  This  custard  is  made  of  one-half  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a  little  vanilla  to  flavor  it.  Some  use  too  much 
vanilla,  which  destroys  the  delicate  taste  which  a  flavoring  extract  should 
give.  Annie  R.  White. 

BANANA  CAKE. 

Cream  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  butter  with  one  cupful  of  sugar,  add 
two  well-beaten  eggs,  one  half  cupful  of  milk  and  one  and  three-quarters 
cupfuls  of  flour.  Bake  in  layers.  When  baked  spread  between  the 
layers  a  little  boiled  icing  and  sliced  bananas;  to  be  eaten  while  fresh. 

Mrs.  Eliza  Locke. 

STRAWBERRY  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder;  beat  the  butter  and 
sugar  together  and  add  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  bak- 
ing-powder well  sifted  together  and  bake  in  deep  tin  plates.  This  quantity 
will  fill  four  plates.  With  three  pints  of  strawberries  mix  a  cupful  of 
sugar.  Spread  the  fruit  between  the  layers  of  cake.  Cover  the  top  layer 
of  strawberries  with  a  meringue  made  with  the  white  of  an  egg  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  Charles  Ross. 

WHITE  COCOANUT  CAKE  (YELLOW  FILLING). 

The  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  moderately 
stiff  batter.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling. — Take  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
water;  let  dissolve  and  then  boil  till  it  shreds.  Add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
well  beaten  and  the  juice  of  one-fourth  of  a  lemon.  Spread  between  the 
layers,  sprinkling  cocoanut  on  top.  Mrs.  M.  E.  St  Clair. 


CAKES.  255 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
and  one  whole  egg.  Reserve  two  whites  for  frosting.  Take  one-half 
cupful  of  cold  water,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  the  juice  of  one  orange.  Bake  in  two  layers.  Ice  with  boiled 
icing,  grating  in  the  rind.  Mrs.  G.  L.  Galbraith. 

PERFECTION  CAKE. 

Sift  one  pint  of  flour  with  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 
wash  six  even  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  cold  water,  then  stir  with  it  one- 
half  pint  of  pulverized  sugar  to  a  light  cream;  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla;  add  alternatively  the  flour  with  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  milk 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs,  taking  care  not  to  stir  much  after 
these  ingredients  have  been  added;  pour  the  cake  batter  inco  two  good- 
sized  buttered  tins,  smooth,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Filling. — Boil  one-half  pint  of  sugar  with  one-half  cupful  of  water  till 
it  threads,  then  pour  it  slowly  into  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  add 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  four  ounces  of  finely-chopped  nuts; 
spread  this  over  one  cake,  put  on  the  other  layer,  pour  over  a  pink  sugar 
glaze,  then  a  thin  white  glaze,  and  decorate  the  top  with  candied  fruit  and 
nuts.  Make  the  glaze  by  putting  one-half  pint  of  sifted  powdered  sugar 
in  a  saucepan,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  a  few  drops  of  straw- 
berry juice  to  color  it  a  desired  pink.  Stir  over  the  fire  till  lukewarm, 
then  pour  it  over  the  cake;  leave  the  second  glaze  white.  A.  F.  T. 

TUTTI=FRUTTI  CAKE. 

Cream  one  small  cupful  of  butter,  add  gradually  one  and  one-half 
cupfuls  of  sugar,  then  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Take  three  level  teacupfuls,  of 
flour,  add  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder;  sift  twice. 
Stir  flour  into  the  mixture,  alternating  with  one-half  cupful  of  milk;  lastly^ 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Bake  in  shallow  pans.  Spread  one  layer  thinly  w^ith  quince  jelly 
and  over  that  one-half  cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  one-quarter  of  a  cupful 
of  chopped  nuts,  one-quarter  of  a  cupful  of  cocoanut  and  the  beaten  white 
of  one  egg.     Put  top  layer  in  place  and  cover  with  boiled  icing.  C.  H.  I. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD. 

(Fit  for  Angels.) 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half 
cake  of  Baker's  chocolate  dissolved  in  one-half  cupful  of  boiling  water,  a 


256  CAKES. 

little  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  one-half  cupful  of  sour  milk  and 
three  cupfuls  of  flour.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling. — One-half  cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  one-half  cupful  of 
butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  mix  these 
together  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate  and  cook  until  it  becomes 
waxy;  then  cool  and  spread  quickly  on  layers.  Mrs.  Grennard. 

INEXPENSIVE  LAYER  CAKE. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  milk  or  water,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Beat  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and 
beat  again.  Then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  next  the  flour  and 
baking-powder  sifted  together,  alternately  with  milk  or  water.  Lastly 
fold  in  lightly  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  turn  into 
greased  pans.  Bake  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderately-hot  oven. 
Put  together  with  boiled  icing.  Aunt  Amy. 

ROLL  JELLY  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  or 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder.  Beat  the  eggs  until  very  light,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  cream  or 
melted  butter  and  lastly  sift  in  lightly  the  flour  and  baking-powder  sifted 
together.  Spread  very  thinly  in  shallow  pans  lined  with  soft  paper  and 
bake  about  twelve  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Turn  from  pan  immediately, 
remove  the  paper,  spread  the  cake  with  jelly  and  roll  up  while  still  hot. 
If  the  jelly  is  warmed  slightly  it  will  spread  more  quickly. 

Nellie  Brooks. 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE. 

For  two  sheets  of  cake  use  three  ounces  of  chocolate,  three  eggs,  one 
and  three-fourths  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  and  three-fourths  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  extract,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Grate 
the  chocolate;  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  and  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar. 
Beat  in  the  milk  and  vanilla,  then  the  eggs  (already  well  beaten),  next  the 
chocolate  and  finally  the  flour,  in  which  the  baking-powder  should  be 
mixed.  Pour  into  two  well-buttered  shallow  cake-pans.  Bake  for  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Ice  or  not,  as  you  like.      Maria  Parloa. 


DELIGHTFUL  AND  APPETIZING  DISHES  FOR  DINNER 


1.  Mrs.  Horner's  Individual  Chicken  Pies. 

2.  Pickled  Onions — Swedish  Recipe. 

3.  Grape  Jelly — New  Hampshire  Recipe. 

4.  Mrs.  Earle's  Fish  Croquettes. 


5.  Mrs.  B.'s  Blueberry  Cake. 

6.  Dressed  Radishes  and  Celery. 

(Club  Style. ) 

7.  Stuffed  Olives—  Delicious  and  Appetizing. 


The  turnpike  road  to  people's  hearts  I  find 

I<ies  through  their  mouths,  or  I  mistake  mankind. — Dr.  IVolcot. 


1.  White  Mountain  Cream  Puffs. 

2.  Mother's  Salted  Almonds. 

3.  Miss  Stahl's  Quince  Souffle. 


4.  Honey  a  la  New  York. 

5.  Ice-cream  Cake 

6.  Sliced   Lemon  Pie — Meringue  Dressing. 


CAKES.  259 

CHOCOLATE  WHITE  CAKE. 

Beat  one-half  cupful  of  butter  to  a  cream  and  gradually  beat  into  it 
one  cupful  of  sugar.  When  this  is  light  beat  in  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  a 
little  at  a  time,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  of  six 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  with 
two  scant  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour.  Stir  the  flour  and  whites  of  eggs  alter- 
nately into  the  mixture.  Have  three  deep  tin  plates  well  buttered  and 
spread  two-thirds  of  the  batter  in  two  of  them.  Into  the  remaining  batter 
stir  one  ounce  of  chocolate,  melted,  and  spread  this  batter  in  the  third 
plate.  Bake  the  cakes  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes. 
Put  a  layer  of  white  cake  on  a  large  plate  and  spread  with  white  icing. 
Put  the  dark  cake  on  this  and  also  spread  with  white  icing.  On  this  put 
the  third  cake;  spread  with  chocolate  icing.  Maria  Parloa. 

CHOCOLATE  CINNAMON  CAKE. 

One-half  cupful  of  butter,  two-thirds  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one 
and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 
three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon,  one-half  cupful  of  milk  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  well  together,  then  add  the  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  beating  them  well  into  the  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  together 
flour,  baking-powder,  salt  and  cinnamon  and  add  alternately  with  the 
milk,  mixing  thoroughly.  Turn  into  two  layer  cake  pans  that  have  been 
previously  lined  with  a  soft  paper.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five 
minutes  and  if  possible  leave  in  the  pans  until  cold.  Frost  and  fill  with 
chocolate  filling.     (See  page  260  recipe  for  Chocolate  Layer  Cake.) 

D.  A.  B. 

COCOANUT  CAKE  CANDY  FILLING. 

Three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  soft,  white  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  warm  water,  three  eggs  beaten  separately  or  the  whites  of 
only  six  eggs,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  having  in  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
baking-powder.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans,  three  layers.  It  takes  eight 
ounces  of  crystallized  cocoanut,  soaked  in  tepid  water  to  spread  between 
the  layers. 

The  top  should  be  iced  with  the  following  boiled  icing:  Take  two  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  water,  boil  three 
minutes;  when  cool  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten. 

Mrs.  Phebe  Tyrell. 


260  CAKES. 

BANANA  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  two  and 
one-fourth  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  together 
until  thick,  sift  together  flour,  salt  and  baking-powder  and  add  them  with 
the  milk.  Melt  the  butter  without  heating  more  than  is  necessary  and 
stir  it  into  the  cake  batter.  Bake  in  layer  pans.  When  cold,  cover  one 
layer  with  sliced  bananas  and  over  these  a  layer  of  frosting,  made  by 
beating  together  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
confectioners'  or  powdered  sugar,  until  smooth.  Reserve  one-half  of  the 
frosting  and  use  it  to  cover  top  layer  of  the  cake.  E.  J.  A. 

MAUD  S.  CAKE. 

Boil  together  one-half  cake  of  chocolate,  one  cupful  of  granulated 
sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  the  yolk  of  one  ^^'g  and  let  boil  till  thick 
and  then  set  aside  to  cool.  Then  take  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  and  three-quarter  cupfuls  of  flour, 
two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Flavor  this  with  vanilla. 
Stir  the  chocolate  mixture  into  this  and  bake  on  layer  tins.  When  baked 
spread  strawberry  preserves  between  the  layers.  W.  F.  White. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMEL  CAKE. 

One  scant  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  four  eggs 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  the 
beaten  yolks;  add  the  milk,  then  the  flour  and  baking-powder  sifted  well 
together,  then  the  beaten  whites  and  last  the  vanilla.  Bake  in  four  deep 
tins. 

Filling. — To  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  add  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one- 
fourth  of  a  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Cook 
until  thick  and  spread  between  the  layers.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Spradling. 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE— No.  2. 

Grate  one  cake  of  unsweetened  chocolate,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  five  eggs 
beaten  with  the  sugar.     Beat  the  whole  fifteen  minutes  and  bake  in  layers. 

Filling. — One  cupful  of  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch, mixed  smooth  in  milk.  Beat  three  eggs  separately,  add  the  yolks 
to  the  cupful  of  milk,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  extract.  When 
warm,  add  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  and  one-half  cupful  of  sugar. 
Stir  in  the  beaten  whites  when  cool.  Mrs.  D.  Murray. 


CAKES.  201 


ORANGE  CAKE. 


Two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-quarter  cupful  of  butter,  one  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  rounding  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  orange  juice.  Beat  the 
butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  milk,  lastly  the 
beaten  whites  and  the  flour,  stirring  hard.  Bake  in  two  or  three  laj'^ers 
about  twenty  minutes 

Filling. — For  Orange  Filling  see  page  249.  Mrs.  G.  Pope. 

LEROY'S  BIRTHDAY  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  (heaping)  of  baking-powder,  a  little 
nutmeg  and  flour  to  make  a  dough  just  stiff  enough  to  run.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling. — One  teaspoonful  of  orange  extract,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg  (white  for  icing), 
two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  boiling  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch, 
Take  first  enough  of  the  milk  to  dissolve  the  corn-starch,  add  the  butter 
and  sugar  and  over  this  pour  the  balance  of  the  milk  boiling  hot,  stirring 
briskly  till  partially  cold;  then  add  the  orange  extract  and  the  yolk  of  an 
^^^,  well  beaten.  Fill  between  the  layers  and  ice  the  top.  Serve  while 
warm.  Mrs.  S.  M.  Stiles. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE— No.  2. 

One-half  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking-powder.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling. — One-half  cupful  of  cream  whipped  stiff,  one-half  cupful  of 
sugar;  flavor  :o  taste.  Mrs.  C.  Ullery. 

WASHINGTON  CAKE. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  ^^^,  one-third  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream 
of  tartar,  one  and  one-third  cupfuls  of  flour;  flavor  with  lemon.  Bake  on 
two  round  tins;  when  done  spread  one  cake  with  nice  apple  sauce  or 
jelly;  then  put  the  other  cake  on  top  and  sift  powdered  sugar  over  it. 

B.  E.  J. 
JELLY  ROLL  CAKE— No.  2. 

Four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  flour,  one-fourth  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  very  light,  then 


262  CAKES. 

add  flour;   beat  five  minutes.     Bake  in  a  bread  pan  in  a  hot  oven;  when 
done  spread  the  jelly  and  roll  while  warm;  it  must  not  be  cut  until  cold. 

Mrs.  M.  Ranney. 

NEW  ENGLAND  PANCAKES. 

Mix  four  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  flour  very  smoothly  with  a  little  cold 
milk.  Add  gradually  one-half  pint  of  cream,  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  the 
well-whisked  yolks  of  four  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  sifted  sugar  and  two  or  three  drops  of  lemon,  almond,  or  any 
other  flavoring.  Let  the  batter  stand  for  an  hour  before  it  is  cooked,  then 
fry  it  in  pancakes  as  thin  as  possible.  Strew  a  little  sifted  sugar  and 
powdered  cinnamon  upon  each  pancake,  and  roll  it  round  before  putting 
it  in  the  dish.     Serve  very  hot.  Lydia  Town. 

JAM  ROLL. 

Take  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  two  eggs,  the  weight  of 
one  egg  (one-eighth  of  a  pound)  in  flour.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
briskly,  add  the  sugar  and  mix  well.  Beat  the  &g^  whites  to  a  very  stiff 
froth,  mix  lightly  and  add  the  flour  by  degrees,  beating  all  the  time. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  out  and  roll  quickly  on  a 
board  sprinkled  with  flour.  Mrs.  B.  Bauer. 

PEACH  CAKE  FOR  DESSERT. 

Bake  three  sheets  of  Minnehaha  cake,  cut  nice,  ripe  peaches  in  thin 
slices;  prepare  cream  by  whipping  and  sweetening;  put  layers  of  peaches 
between  the  sheets  of  cake;  pour  cream  over  each  layer  and  over  the 
top.  To  be  eaten  soon  after  it  is  prepared.  Vanilla  flavoring  may  be 
added  if  desired.  B.  P.  W. 

PALM  CAKES. 

(For  Palm  Sunday.) 

Mix  one  cupful  of  flour  into  which  has  been  sifted  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking-powder  and  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter.  Beat  the  yolk  of  an  Qgg, 
add  to  it  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  beat  again.  Add  the  &gg  and  sugar 
mixture  to  the  flour  and  butter;  add  to  this  one-half  cupful  of  hickory 
nut  meats  chopped  fine  and  lastly  add  the  beaten  white  of  one  &gg.  Roll 
out  thin  and  cut  in  tiny  palm-leaf  fans  or  in  the  shape  of  tiny  palm  leaves 
and  bake  on  oiled  paper.  Remove  from  oven  and  while  hot  trim  into 
good  shape  if  they  have  spread  out.  When  cold  spread  over  boiled  icing 
and  mark  the  palm  ribs  with  a  knife.  Before  serving  tie  a  bit  of  white  or 
green  ribbon  about  the  handle  of  each.     Novel  and  good.  P.  W.  B. 


CAKES.  263 

EASTER  CAKELETS. 

Make  a  silver  cake  after  the  silver  cake  recipe;  spread  about  one- 
half  inch  thick  on  flat  baking-tin  and  bake.  When  done,  let  partially 
cool,  then  take  out  of  tin  and  lay  on  flat  surface.  Also  make  the  gold 
cake  after  the  gold  cake  recipe,  at  the  same  time  adding  a  little  yellow 
vegetable  coloring  if  the  color  of  the  batter  is  not  deep  enough  to  represent 
the  yolk  of  an  ^%^.  Then  spread  it  about  one-half  inch  thick  on  a  tin. 
When  baked,  remove  from  tin  and  lay  also  on  flat  surface.  Now,  with  a 
round  cooky  cutter,  cut  out  the  white  cake,  laying  each  piece  again  on  a 
flat  surface.  With  a  smaller  cooky  cutter  cut  out  the  yellow  cake,  laying 
each  piece  in  the  center  and  on  top  of  each  round  white  cake.  Boiled 
icing  placed  between  them  and  over  all,  makes  most  delightful  Easter 
cakelets.  M.  C.  B. 

INDIVIDUAL   BERRY  CAKES. 
(Blackberry,  Blueberry,  Strawberry  or  Peach.) 

Take  one  pint  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a  little 
salt;  sift  together,  then  rub  in  two  even  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Add 
enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Pour  on  bread  board  and  pat  down. 
Take  a  large  round  cutter  and  cut  out  the  cakes.  Lay  on  buttered  pan 
and  bake  in  quick  oven.  When  done  pull  apart,  spread  with  butter  and 
lay  over  fresh  ripe  berries;  roll  in  sugar;  and  serve  with  cream  if  desired. 

Mrs.  L.  a.  B. 
CHOCOLATE  ECLAIRS. 

Into  a  granite-ware  saucepan  put  one-half  pint  of  milk,  two  well- 
rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  place 
on  the  stove.  When  this  boils  up,  add  one-half  pint  of  sifted  flour  and 
cook  for  two  minutes,  beating  well  with  a  wooden  or  granite  spoon.  It 
will  be  smooth  and  velvety  at  the  end  of  that  time.  Set  away  to  cool;  and 
when  cool,  beat  in  four  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Beat  vigorously  for  about 
fifteen  minutes.  Try  a  small  bit  of  the  paste  in  the  oven,  if  it  rises 
in  the  form  of  a  hollow  ball  the  paste  is  beaten  enough,  whereas,  if  it 
does  not,  beat  a  little  longer.  Have  tin  sheets  or  shallow  pans  slightly 
buttered.  Have  ready,  also,  a  tapering  tin  tube,  with  the  smaller  opening 
about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  diameter.  Place  this  in  the  small  end 
of  a  conical  cotton  pastry  bag.  Put  the  mixture  in  the  bag,  and  press  out 
on  buttered  pans,  having  each  eclair  nearly  three  inches  long.  There 
should  be  eighteen,  and  they  must  be  at  least  two  inches  apart,  as  they 
swell  in  cooking.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  about  twenty-five 
minutes.     Take  from  the  oven  and  while  they  are  still  warm  coat  them 


^64  CAKES. 

with  chocolate.  When  cold,  cut  open  on  the  side,  and  fill  with  either  of 
the  following  described  preparations: 

Filling  No.  i. — Mix  in  a  bowl  one-half  pint  of  rich  cream,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Place  the  bowl  in  a 
pan  of  ice-water  and  beat  the  cream  until  light  and  firm,  using  either  an 
egg-beater  or  a  whisk. 

Filling  No.  2. — Put  one-half  pint  of  milk  in  the  double  boiler  and 
place  on  the  fire.  Beat  together  until  very  light  one  level  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  &gg',  when  the  milk  boils,  stir  in 
this  mixture.  Add  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  often.     When  cold  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Icing  for  Eclairs. — Put  in  a  small  granite-ware  pan  one-half  pint  of 
sugar  and  five  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is 
partially  melted  and  then  place  on  the  stove,  stirring  for  one-half  minute. 
Take  out  the  spoon,  and  watch  the  sugar  closely.  As  soon  as  it  boils  take 
instantly  from  the  fire  and  pour  upon  a  meat  platter.  Let  this  stand  for 
eight  minutes.  Meantime,  shave  into  a  cup  one  ounce  of  chocolate  and 
put  it  on  the  fire  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water.  At  the  end  of  eight  minutes 
stir  the  sugar  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  begins  to  grow  white  and  to 
thicken.  Add  the  melted  chocolate  quickly  and  continue  stirring  until 
the  mixture  is  thick.  Put  it  in  a  small  saucepan  and  place  on  the  fire  in 
another  pan  of  hot  water.  Stir  until  so  soft  that  it  will  pour  freely. 
Stick  a  skewer  into  the  side  of  an  eclair  and  dip  the  top  in  the  hot  choco- 
late. Place  on  a  plate  and  continue  until  all  the  eclairs  are  "glaced." 
They  will  dry  quickly.  Do  not  stir  the  sugar  after  the  first  one-half  min- 
ute and  do  not  scrape  the  sugar  from  the  saucepan  into  the  platter.  All 
the  directions  must  be  strictly  followed.  Maria  Parloa. 

JIACAROONS  A  LA  ITALIENNE. 

Pound  one  pound  of  Jordan  almonds  (to  be  obtained  at  confectioner's) 
quite  fine  with  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  add  two  and  one-half  pounds  of 
sifted  loaf  sugar  and  rub  them  well  together  in  a  mortar.  Add  by  degrees 
ten  more  whites,  working  them  well  as  you  put  them  in.  Put  the  mixture 
into  a  tunnel  and  drop  them  on  paper  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Cut 
three  blanched  almonds  into  small  bits  and  place  on  each  and  bake  them 
on  flat  tins  in  a  slow  oven.  Mrs.  T.  J.  Gaines. 

SMALL  GINGER  CAKES. 

One  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  two 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  two  teaspoonfuls  each  of  ground 
ginger  and  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  three 


CAKES.  ^65 

cupfuls  of  flour.  Beat  together  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  and  the  molasses.  Next  stir  in  the  flour,  spices,  baking-powder  and 
salt,  all  sifted  together,  and  just  before  baking  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
well  and  fold  them  lightly  in.  Bake  in  small  pans  in  moderate  oven  not 
over-filling  the  pans.  B.  A.  W. 

AUNT  FANNY'S  TEA  CAKES. 

Beat  three  eggs  to  a  foam,  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  five  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  ten  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder  and  three  cupfuls  of  flour.  Flavor  with  lemon  extract.  Bake  in 
patty  pans.  Rose  Norden. 

MRS.  WORTH INQTON'S  COFFEE  CAKE. 

One  cupful  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful 
of  liquid  coffee,  one-half  cupful  of  molasses;  never  use  syrup  in  cooking. 
Take  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves, 
nutmeg  and  soda,  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  unsifted  flour.  Bake  in 
patty  pans  with  a  quick  oven.  M.  W. 

CHOCOLATE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

(Made  of  Ko-nut. ) 

One-fourth  cupful  of  Ko-nut,  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water,  one  and  one- 
quarter  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-quarter  cupful  of  Baker's  cocoa,  three  level 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 
Cream  Ko-nut,  salt  and  sugar  together,  add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten, 
then  the  water  and  lastly  the  flour,  into  which  the  baking-powder,  cinna- 
mon and  cocoa  should  be  sifted.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.     Bake  twenty  minutes  in  muffin  pans.  Myrtie  E.  Robinson. 

CHOCOLATE  GINGERBREAD  FOR  BOYS  AND  GIRLS. 

(Made  of  Ko-nut.) 

Use  one  cupful  of  molasses,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  cold  water,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  ginger 
and  salt,  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water,  two  cupfuls  of  flour  and  two  ounces 
of  Baker's  chocolate  melted  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Ko-nut.  Bake  in 
gem  pans  for  twenty  minutes.  Myrtie  E.  Robinson. 

SPICE  CAKES. 
(Made  of  Ko-nut.) 

One  cupful  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one-fourth  teaspoon- 
ful each  of  salt,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
paprica,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  warm  water, 


266  CAKES. 

one  package  of  fig  mince,  three  eggs,  four  cupfuls  of   flour,  one-third  cup- 
ful of  Ko-nut  melted.     Bake  in  shallow  pans  twenty-five  minutes. 

Myrtie  E.  Robinson. 
ENGLISH  WAFERS. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  six  eggs  separately,  then  pour  in  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  arrow-root.     Flavor  to  taste.  Willa  K. 

EVERY=DAY  TEA  CAKES. 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of 
butter,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk  (if  you  have  none  use 
water),  two  cupfuls  of  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Beat 
the  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  together  and  lastly  the  flour  with  the  baking- 
powder  sifted  together.  Flavor  to  taste  (I  generally  use  nutmeg).  Bake 
in  gem  tins  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  M.  L.  Lockwood. 

SPRENQELA. 

Four  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  eight  eggs.  Stir  one-half  hour;  beat 
whites  separately.  Take  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  the  rind  of 
two  lemons,  flour  enough  to  roll  out.  Cut  them  out  with  a  cake-cutter  and 
let  lie  over  night.     Then  sprinkle  anise  seed  over  them  and  bake. 

M.  O.  Baldwin. 
PEPPER  NUTS. 

Take  four  cupfuls  of  fine  sugar,  eight  eggs,  stirring  them  for  nearly 
one-half  hour.  Beat  whites  by  themselves;  rind  of  two  lemons,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking-powder,  flour  enough  to  roll,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cin- 
namon, one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one 
grated  nutmeg.  Cut  them  into  any  shape  you  choose  and  put  two  drops 
of  brandy  on  each  cake.     Next  morning  turn  them  over  and  bake. 

Mrs.  J.  Fuller. 
SPIDERS. 

Make  a  noodle  dough,  cut  in  shape,  and  fry  it  in  hot  lard.  Sprinkle 
powdered  sugar  over  them  when  done.  Emma  Wolf. 

ALMOND  SQUARES. 

One-half  pound  of  butter  rubbed,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  one-half 
pound  of  chopped  almonds  mixed  in,  two  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  flour 
and  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Roll  them  out  and  cut  into  squares. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Jane  Phillips. 


CAKES.  267 

CINNAMON  ROLLS. 

(Good.) 

Make  a  biscuit  dough  of  one  pint  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking-powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  full  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  butter  and  lard.  Rub  the  shortening  into  the  flour,  having  first 
thoroughly  mixed  in  the  salt  and  baking-powder.  Use  enough  new  milk 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  it  out  very  thin  and  sprinkle  on  a  cupful  of 
granulated  sugar  well  mixed  with  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Then 
roll  up  tightly  and  cut  across  in  slices  from  three-quarters  of  an  inch  to  an 
inch  thick.  Lay  upon  a  biscuit  pan  and  bake  quickly.  Try  these  and  see 
if  they  are  not  good.  Mrs.  E.  Wallace. 

MARGUERITES. 

(See  colored  picture. ) 

For  four  dozen  cakes  sift  four  ounces  of  flour  with  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  then  add  one-half  cupful  of  lukewarm 
water,  the  whites  of  three  unbeaten  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon 
extract.  Beat  well,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  divide 
the  batter  into  four  parts;  color  one  pink,  one  green,  one  purple  and  one 
cream.  Vegetable  and  fruit  colors  are  best  for  this  purpose.  Spinach  for 
the  green,  strawberry  for  the  pink,  grape  for  the  purple  and  a  little  orange 
for  the  cream.  Oil  a  wafer  iron,  put  one  teaspoonful  of  the  batter  in  the 
center,  close  and  bake,  taking  care  not  to  brown.  Soon  as  done  remove 
the  cake  and  roll  it  up  like  a  tube;  continue  till  all  are  baked  in  the  same 
manner.  If  you  have  no  wafer  pan  a  large  common  dripping-pan  will 
answer.  Spread  out  thin,  leaving  a  space  between  each  square;  roll  while 
hot.  .  P.  E.  J. 

MARGUERITES— No.  2. 

One  pound  of  figs  and  one-fourth  pound  of  citron  chopped  fine,  mixed 
with  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  one-fourth  cupful  of  sugar. 
Spread  mixture  on  saratoga-chip  crackers;  set  in  oven  and  let  remain 
until  light  brown.  A.  Metta  Hubbard. 

AFTERNOON  TEA  WAFERS. 

Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  large  cupful  of  confectionery  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  mix  together  with  one-half  pound  of  chopped 
English  walnuts;  spread  this  on  Saratoga  crackers  and  serve  with  after- 
noon tea.  Marion  Willard. 


268  CAKES. 


NUT  BARS. 


Two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  coarsely-chopped  nuts,  one-half 
cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  one  egg  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Sift  flour, 
salt  and  baking-powder  into  a  bowl,  rub  in  the  butter  and  add  the  nuts 
and  sugar.  Mix  to  a  rather  stiff  dough  with  the  ^^g  and  milk,  turn  on  to 
a  floured  board  and  roll  out  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into  bars  of 
convenient  size  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  golden  brown. 

Chicago  Cooking  School. 

BANNOCKS. 

Take  one  pound  of  butter,  one  and  one-quarter  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
six  eggs  whipped  to  a  thick  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  and 
one-quarter  pounds  of  white  corn-meal  and  one  and  one-quarter  pounds 
of  flour.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beat  in  the  eggs  and  ginger;  stir  in 
the  meal  and  flour  and  make  into  a  smooth  dough.  Bake  in  small  cups 
or  patty  pans  and  let  stand  in  them  till  cold.  E.  D.  Whittier. 

ALMOND  JUMBLES. 

(Children's  Delight. ) 

Cream  thoroughly  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  butter  and  one  cupful 
of  sugar.  Add  three  eggs,  first  the  yolks,  then  the  whites,  each  beaten 
separately;  add  one-eighth  of  a  cupful  of  canned  fruit  juice — peach, 
apricot,  or  any  good  juice,  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  corn-starch  and 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  thin,  cut  with  a  jumble 
cutter.  Sprinkle  the  tops  with  blanched  almonds  and  granulated  sugar. 
Press  lightly  with  a  rolling  pin,  lay  on  greased  pans  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven.  Caterer  for  Children's  Parties. 

PLAIN  JUMBLES. 

Take  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  butter,  three  eggs,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Mrs.  Bryant. 

PLAIN  JUMBLES— No.  2. 

Rub  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  pound  of  butter  together.  Beat 
well  four  eggs,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  and  milk  to 
make  them  soft.     Roll  thin  and  cut  out  with  a  cake  cutter. 

T.  H.  Green. 


CAKES.  269 

ROCK  CRYSTAL  JUMBLES. 

Work  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  flour,  one-half  pound  of  sugar  and  three  eggs  beaten  well.  Add 
one-quarter  of  a  nutmeg  grated,  one-half  teaspoonfui  of  lemon  or  vanilla 
extract.  Mix  well,  roll  out  to  the  thickness  of  one-eighth  of  an  inch,  grate 
loaf  sugar  over  the  dough;  cut  it  with  a  biscuit  or  cake  cutter,  so  that 
there  will  be  a  hole  in  the  center.  Lay  them  on  flat  tin  plates  and  bake 
ten  minutes,  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  F.  T.  Mount. 

EXCELLENT  COOKIES. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a  little  nutmeg;  flour  to  make 
a  soft  dough.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Muchanan. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  sour  milk, 
one  teaspoonfui  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  two  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of 
oat-meal,  two  cupfuls  of  white  flour,  one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins.  Mix 
soft,  and  roll.  Cut  in  squares  or  with  a  cooky  cutter.  These  are  very 
delicious.     This  recipe  calls  for  "Quaker  Oats."     Mrs.  G.  L.  Galbraith. 

HERMITS. 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  brown  or  maple  sugar,  one  cupful  of  but- 
ter, one-half  teaspoonfui  of  soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot 
water,  three  eggs,  a  little  nutmegl  pinch  of  salt,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls 
of  seeded  and  floured  raisins,  three  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour  in  which 
one  teaspoonfui  of  cream  of  tartar  has  been  sifted,  and  one-fourth  cupful 
of  buttermilk.     Drop  the  dough  from  the  spoon  in  disconnected  cakes. 

O.  C.  A. 
HOLLAND  COOKIES. 
(Fine.) 

One  quart  of  honey,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of  thick, 
sour  cream,  one  heaping  teaspoonfui  of  soda,  one-half  pound  of  almonds, 
chopped  fine,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  chopped  fine,  one  even  tablespoonful 
of  cinnamon,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one-half  tablespoonful  of 
allspice,  one  even  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one-half  of  a  nutmeg.  Can 
use  golden  syrup  in  place  of  honey.  Mrs.  Marion  Lovewell. 

FAIRY  GINGER  COOKIES. 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk,  four 
cupfuls  of  flour,  one-third  teaspoonfui  of  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  gin- 
ger.    Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream;    add  the  sugar,  gradually,  and  when 


270  CAKES. 

light,  the  ginger  and  the  milk  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved,  and 
finally  the  flour.  Turn  baking  pans  upside  down  and  wipe  the  bottoms 
very  clean.  Butter  them  and  spread  the  cake  very  thin  upon  them.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown.  While  still  hot  cut  into  squares  and  slip 
from  the  pan.  Keep  in  a  tin  box.  Remember  to  spread  it  as  thin  as  a 
wafer  and  cut  it  the  instant  it  is  taken  from  the  oven.  J.  I.  C. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

(In  print  for  the  first  time. ) 

Two  cupfuls  of  dark  molasses,  one  cupful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful 
of  melted  lard  and  butter,  one  cupful  of  hot  water,  two  eggs,  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  rounding  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  rounding  tea- 
spoonful  of  ginger  and  one  rounding  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Beat 
together  molasses,  sugar  and  shortening,  then  add  the  eggs  and  two  cup- 
fuls of  flour,  or  enough  for  a  thick  batter.  Then  stir  in  the  salt  and  spices; 
then  add  hot  water  into  which  has  been  stirred  the  soda  and  beat  smooth. 
Now  stir  in  sufficient  flour  for  stiff  batter  and  let  stand  as  long  as  con- 
venient; all  night  is  not  too  long.  Roll  as  soft  as  possible,  lay  aside  the 
trimmings  of  each  fresh  batch  until  all  has  been  rolled  once;  put  them  all 
together  and  roll  out.     The  softer  the  dough  the  better  the  cookies. 

Mrs.  H.  p.  Crandall. 

GINGER  COOKIES— No.  2. 

One  cupful  of  shortening,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
one-half  cupful  of  hot  water.  Use  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  salt,  cinnamon 
and  ginger.     Bake  them.  Mrs.  E.  Carroll. 

GINGER  COOKIES— No.  3. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  lard,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one- 
half  cupful  of  hot  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flour  to  roll  out,  and 
ginger  to  taste,  usually  about  a  tablespoonful.  Mrs.  A.  Forester. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES. 

Take  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful 
of  cocoanut,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing-powder, one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  flour  enough  to  roll  out 
nicely.  These  cookies  require  a  quick  oven  and  must  be  rolled  out  very 
thin.     The  longer  they  are  kept  the  more  moist  they  become. 

Mrs.  E.  Casper. 


% 


CAKES.  271 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 

Beat  to  a  cream  one-half  cupful  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
lard.  Gradually  beat  into  this  one  cupful  of  sugar,  then  add  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  two  ounces  of  choco- 
late, melted.  Now  add  one  well-beaten  egg,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Stir  in  about  two  and  one-half 
cupfuls  of  flour.  Roll  thin,  and,  cutting  in  round  cakes,  bake  in  a  rather 
quick  oven.  The  secret  of  making  good  cookies  is  the  use  of  as  little 
flour  as  will  suffice.  Maria  Parloa. 

SUGAR  COOKIES. 

One  cupful,  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a 
little  nutmeg,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  milk,  a  scant  half 
teaspoonful  of  baking-soda  dissolved  in  the  milk;  flour  to  roll  firm. 

Mrs.  M.  a.  Burke. 
SUGAR  COOKIES— No.  2. 
(Can  any  thirteen-year-old  girl  beat  this?) 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  three-fourths  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  five  cupfuls  of  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder.     Roll  thin  and  bake  quickly.     Caraway  seed  may  be  added. 

Flossie  Falconbury. 
SCOTCH  COOKIES. 

Take  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter  (one-half  lard  may  be 
used),  two  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  molasses,  one-half  pint  of  water,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda;  spices  to  suit  the  taste.  Mrs.  Alice  Long. 

SUGAR  COOKIES— No.  3. 

Use  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  lard  stirred  to  a  cream,  two 
eggs  beaten  in  a  coffee  cup,  then  fill  it  up  with  sweet  milk;  salt,  and  flavor 
with  nutmeg  or  vanilla,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  scalding  water  or  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Mix  in  a  mass;  bake  quickly  and  keep  in  stone  jars.     They  are  fine. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Hilton. 
SUGAR  COOKIES— No.  4. 

Five  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  lard,  salt  to  taste.  Use 
on  heaping  tablespoonful  of  baking-powder,  one  nutmeg  grated,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  lemon  extract.  Flour  sufficient  to  make  a  paste  that  will  roll 
out.  Marian  Bell. 


272  CAKES. 

OLD-FASHIONED  GINGER  CAKES. 

Take  one  pint  of  good  molasses  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  In  one-half 
cupful  of  hot  water  dissolve  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  ginger  and  one  teacupful  of  lard.  Mix  all  with  flour  into  a 
thick  dough;  roll  thin  and  cut  in  squares;  brush  tops  over  with  the  white 
of  a  raw  &gg  and  bake  quickly.  Lucia  Weatherly. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

One  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful 
of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper,  one  cupful  of 
lard  or  butter  and  three  eggs.  Make  into  dough,  roll  very  thin  and  bake 
in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  M.  L.  Forshee. 

GINGER  SNAPS— No.  2. 

Put  in  a  tin  or  granite-ware  pan  two  cupfuls  of  molasses,  one  cupful 
of  brown  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  lard,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
ground  ginger.  Put  the  vessel  on  the  stove,  and  let  boil  until  it  thickens  a 
little.  Dissolve  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  one-half  cupful  of  tepid 
water  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  well  before  removing  from 
stove.  When  cool  sift  in  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough.  Roll  very  thin 
and  bake.  Nellie  Shannon. 

GINGER  SNAPS— No.  3. 

One  cupful  of  molasses,  three-fourths  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  allspice.  Add  to 
these  half  a  cupful  of  creamed  butter.  Beat  into  this  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
soda.     Add  flour  to  roll  thin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.         F.  T.  Wall. 

NEW  YORK  GINGER  SNAPS. 

Take  one-half  pound  of  butter,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  two  and  one- 
half  pounds  of  flour,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus, 
one  tablespoonful  of  ginger.  This  should  be  rolled  very  thin  and  baked 
but  a  few  minutes.     It  improves  greatly  by  being  kept.  P.  C.  Dane. 

HEALTH  COOKIES. 

One  cupful  of  sugar  dissolved  in  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs 
beaten  thick,  and  lemon  color;  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one- 
half  cupful  of  English  currants,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  grating 
of  nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls 


A 


CAKES.  273 

of  melted  Ko-nut.  Sift  dry  the  ingredients  thoroughly  together  and  add 
alternately  with  the  beaten  &gg.  To  this  add  melted  Ko-nut  and  cur- 
rants, flour  sufficient  to  support  the  mixing  spoon  upright  in  the  dough. 
Drop  by  rounded  teaspoonfuls  into  smoking  hot  Ko-nut.  Observe  level 
measurement.  Mrs.  E.  Hiller. 

SAND  COOKIES. 

One-half  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  five  eggs,  beaten  separately.  Stir 
yolks  and  sugar  one  hour,  then  one-half  pound  of  corn-starch,  flavored 
with  lemon.     Bake  thirty-five  minutes.  Mrs.  Lizzie  Mooney. 

FIVE-CENT  COOKIES. 

Three  pints  of  flour,  two  teacupfuls  of  sugar,  one  scant  cupful  of  lard, 
five  cents  worth  of  baking  ammonia,  five  cents  worth  of  oil  of  lemon  and 
one  pint  of  cold  water.  Sift  ammonia  and  sugar  with  flour.  Mix  one- 
half  hour  and  roll  very  thin.  Mrs.  A.  E.  Reagor. 

M0LASSE5  COOKIES. 

One  quart  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 
one  cupful  of  nuts,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 
Boil  all  together.  When  cold  add  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  roll  out. 
Let  stand  a  few  hours  before  baking  them.  M.  E.  Childs. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES— No.  2. 

These  cookies  are  much  liked  by  the  children.  Take  one  cupful  of 
molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  molasses.  Butter 
the  size  of  an  e^g,  one-half  cupful  of  milk.  Flour  to  mix  soft;  a  little 
ginger.     Bake  very  quick.  Susie  Ellsworth. 

PLAIN  DOUGHNUTS. 

One  teacupful  of  white  sugar,  one  coffee-cupful  of  sour  milk, 
three  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  salt-spoonful  of  salt.  Use 
just  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  as  thin  as  can  be  handled. 

Margaret  Isham. 
DOUGHNUTS— No.  2. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  a  small  orange, 
juice  and  rind.  This  should  be  grated.  Add  two  and  one-half  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking-powder,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  four  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of 
sweet  milk.     Flour  to  mix  like  soft  biscuit.  Mrs.  Helen  Locke. 


274  CAKES. 

IOWA  DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two  eggs,  three  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one 
of  vanilla;  add  sufficient  flour  to  roll  out;  sugar  while  warm. 

Mrs.  E.  Wallace. 

NEBRASKA  DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  light,  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  lard,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder 
and  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Season  to  taste.  Flour  to  knead  as 
soft  as  possible.  Fry  in  hot  lard.  Sour  milk  is  just  as  good  by  using  one 
level  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mrs.  Alice  Weatherwax. 

DOUGHNUTS  (SELECTED). 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
one  ^^^,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one- 
half  grated  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  and  one  quart  of 
flour,  or  more  if  necessary.  Put  all  ingredients  in  a  bowl  without  stirring, 
then  add  the  flour  and  baking-powder  and  stir  quickly.  Roll  out  and  fry 
in  hot  lard  after  which  roll  in  sugar.  Mrs.  C.  F.  G. 

DOUGHNUTS  WITH  YEAST. 

One  quart  each  of  sweet  milk  and  New  Orleans  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  teacupful  of  butter  and  one-half  pint  of  yeast.  Set  the  milk  on  the 
stove,  put  in  the  butter  and  let  it  stand  until  melted;  then  mix  up  the 
dough  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Flavor  with  currants, 
cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Mrs.  John  Wood. 

NORWEGIAN  DOUGHNUTS. 

Rub  four  ounces  of  butter  into  three  pounds  of  flour;  add  one  pound 
of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  one  whole  nutmeg, 
grated.  Whisk  four  eggs,  and  mix  them  gradually  with  a  gill  of  yeast 
and  as  much  of  a  pint  of  new  milk,  flavored  with  rosewater,  as  will  make 
the  flour  into  a  soft  dough.  Cover  warm  to  rise  and  when  risen  make 
into  balls,  or  into  any  form  liked,  and  drop  them  into  a  saucepan  of  boil- 
ing lard.  When  of  a  fine  brown  color  they  are  done,  and  should  be  laid 
before  the  fire  on  a  sieve  to  dry.  Mrs.  A.  Myers. 


DELICIOUS  RECIPES  FROM 

Texas  Rice  Croquettes.     (See  Page  467.) 
Canned  Cherries.     (Wolverine  Method.) 

(See  Page  393.) 
Pickled  Peaches.     ( Delaware  Recipe. ) 

(See  Page  402.) 


NORTH-SOUTH— EAST— WEST 

4.  Canned  Peaches.     (California  Recipe.) 

(See  Page  394.) 

5.  New  England  Mince  Pie.   (See  Page  227.) 

6.  Iowa  Doughnuts.     (See  Page  274. ) 

7.  Montreal  Boneless  Turkey. 


QUICK,  SIMPLE,  AND  "NEVER  FAIL"  RECIPES 

4.  Dessert  Surpassing  Ice-cream. 
(See  Page  317.) 

5.  Raspberry'  Bromangelon  (Delicious.) 
(See  Page  323.) 


1.  Creamed  Oysters  in  Pate  Shells. 

2.  Cinderella  Cakes  for  Boys  and  Girls. 

(See  Page  278.) 

3.  Dandy  Ohio  Cake.     (See  Page  252.) 


CAKES.  277 

EVERY-DAY  DOUGHNUTS. 

To  two  pounds  of  flour  add  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of 
butter,  two  ounces  of  baking-powder,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  two  eggs. 
Rub  butter  and  sugar  and  eggs  together.  Add  the  milk  last.  Sift  the 
baking-powder  through  the  dry  flour.     Fry  in  a  deep  kettle. 

Ivy  White. 
SOUR  CREAM  DOUGHNUTS. 

A  cupful  of  white  sugar,  two  eggs,  salt,  lemon  extract,  two  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  cupful  of  sour  cream  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda.     Take  flour  enough  to  roll  out  easily.  Mrs.  H.  Payne. 

WHOLE=WHEAT  DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one-half  grated  nut- 
meg and  enough  whole-wheat  flour  to  make  a  dough  just  thick  enough  to 
roll  out.     After  frying  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  I.  W.  P. 

CHOCOLATE  KISSES. 

Use  only  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  pound  of  powdered 
sugar,  one  cake  of  sweet  chocolate  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Bake 
in  muffin  pans.  L.  S.  Brown. 

ALMOND  MACAROONS. 

One  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one  pound  of  almonds  and  the  whites 
of  ten  eggs.     Bake  on  wafers  or  brown  paper.  P.  A.  Thwing. 

COCOANUT  KISSES. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  and 
one  cupful  of  dessicated  cocoanut.     Bake  in  rings  or  patty  pans. 

E.  G.  T. 
KRULLERS. 

One  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful 
of  lard  melted,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  enough  flour  to  make  into 
dough.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  possible  and  cut  in  strips  six  inches  long  and 
one  inch  wide  with  a  jagging  iron  or  sharp  knife.  Fry  in  hot  lard  a  very 
light,  delicate,  brown  and  lay  on  a  towel  or  paper  to  absorb  the  fat.  Will 
keep  indefinitely  (if  under  lock  and  key),  and  if  placed  a  few  minutes  in 
the  oven  taste  perfectly  fresh.  Fine  with  good  coffee  for  Sunday  morn- 
ing breakfast.  Mrs.  Celia  Betts. 


278  CAKES. 

BIRTHDAY   CAKES    FOR   CHILDREN. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  a  half-cup  of  butter  or  clarified  drip- 
pings, two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Beat  together  the  butter  and  sugar, 
add  the  eggs,  then  the  flour,  baking-powder  and  nutmeg  sifted  together. 
Place  in  small  well-greased  tins  and  just  before  putting  into  the  oven  drop 
a  few  seeded  raisins  on  top  of  each  cake.  Spread  on  the  top  a  few  drops 
of  boiled  icing  and  on  top  of  these  some  colored  candies  or  cinnamon 
drops,  as  they  are  favorites  with  the  little  folks.  Aunt  Mary. 

BROWNIES. 

(For  the  Little  Ones.) 

One-third  cup  of  butter,  one-third  cup  of  sugar,  one-third  cup  of 
molasses,  one  &g,g,  one  scant  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  pecan  or  other  nuts, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add 
the  molasses  and  Qgg,  and  lastly  the  flour  and  baking-powder  sifted 
together.  Stir  in  the  nuts,  and  bake  the  cakes  in  small  fancy  pans  well 
greased. 

CINDERELLA   CAKES. 

(For  Children's  Parties.) 

Use  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  and  a  quarter  of  flour, 
one  gill  of  cold  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking-powder,  one  ounce  of  chocolate,  half  a  tumbler  of  any  kind  of 
jelly,  and  chocolate  icing.  Separate  the  eggs,  and  beat  the  yolks  and 
sugar  together  until  light.  Beat  the  whites  until  light,  and  then  beat 
them  with  yolks  and  sugar  and  grated  chocolate.  Next  beat  in  the  lemon 
juice  and  water,  and  finally  the  flour  in  which  the  baking-powder  should 
be  mixed.  Beat  for  three  minutes,  and  then  pour  the  batter  into  two 
pans,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  eighteen  minutes.  When 
done,  spread  one  sheet  of  cake  with  the  jelly,  and  press  the  other  sheet 
over  it;  and  when  cold,  cut  into  little  squares  and  triangular  pieces.  Stick 
a  wooden  toothpick  into  each  of  these  pieces,  and  dip  each  one  into  the 
hot  icing;  afterwards  removing  the  toothpick,  of  course. 

Maria  Parloa. 


PUDDING 
-SAUCES 


N  MAKING  puddings  or  dumplings  the  first  matter  of  impor- 
tance is  to  see  that  all  the  ingredients  are  fresh  and  good.  The 
slightest  taint  will  injure  the  whole  pudding.  Puddings  are  of  three  kinds 
— boiled,  steamed,  and  baked.  To  steam  a  pudding,  put  it  into  a  buttered 
tin  pan  or  granite  dish;  tie  a  cloth  over  the  top,  first  dredging  it  in  flour 
and  set  into  a  steamer.  Cover  the  steamer  closely;  allow  a  little  longer 
time  than  you  do  for  boiling.  Boiling  requires  nearly  twice  the  time 
required  for  baking. 

Attention  to  the  turning  out  of  a  pudding,  so  that  it  shall  not  be 
ragged  or  broken,  is  necessary.  Puddings  that  are  to  be  boiled  should  be 
put  into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  and  kept  at  a  steady  boil.  A  baked  pud- 
ding should  be  stirred  once  or  twice  after  it  has  set,  so  that  the  fruit  may 
not  all  sink  to  the  bottom,  while  one  that  is  boiled  should  be  turned  over 
for  the  same  reason,  and  also  to  keep  it  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of 
the  kettle.  On  removing  a  pudding  tied  in  a  cloth,  plunge  it  quickly  into 
a  basin  of  cold  water  and  it  will  readily  separate.  If  there  is  much  bread 
in  the  pudding,  tie  it  rather  loosely,  to  allow  for  its  swelling,  but  a  batter 
pudding  cannot  be  fastened  too  lightly.  An  egg  that  is  not  strictly  fresh 
must  never  be  used.  Salt  should  be  added,  in  a  small  quantity,  to  all 
puddings. 

The  oven  must  be  regularly  washed,  and  the  juice  of  pies,  meats,  etc., 
that  have  escaped  in  cooking  scraped  off.  A  pudding  is  lighter  when 
boiled  than  when  baked.  Puddings  will  turn  out  of  a  basin  well  if  it  has 
been  plentifully  rubbed  with  butter. 

If  cloths  are  used,  do  not  wash  them  with  soap,  unless  well  rinsed 
afterwards.  Just  before  filling  dip  them  into  boiling  water,  squeeze  them 
dry  and  dredge  them  with  flour. 

HOW  TO  CLEAN  CURRANTS. 

Put  the  required  amount  of  currants  in  a  colander  and  sprinkle  with 
flour;  rub  them  well  until  they  are  separated,  and  the  flour  and  fine  stems 
have  passed  through  the  strainer.  Place  the  currants  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water  and  wash  thoroughly;  strain  and  dr}^  between  clean  towels.  It 
hardens  them  to  dry  in  an  oven  Woman's  Exchange. 

279 


280  PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

HOW  TO  CHOP  SUET. 

Take  suet,  when  very  cold  break  or  cut  in  small  pieces,  sprinkle  with 
sifted  flour  and  chop  quickly  before  it  gets  soft  and  sticky. 

Woman's  Exchange. 

HOW  TO  STONE  RAISINS. 

Put  the  desired  number  in  a  dish  and  pour  boiling'  water  over  them; 
cover  and  let  remain  ten  minutes;  this  will  soften  so  that  the  seeds  will 
come  out  easily  with  a  small  knife.  Woman's  Exchange. 

POP  CORN  PUDDING. 

(Delicious.) 

Take  five  quarts  of  popped  corn  and  crush  with  a  rolling  pin,  run  it 
through  a  coffee  mill  to  make  it  fine;  this  will  make  five  pints  of  coarse 
meal.  Mix  this  with  four  pints  of  sweet  milk  and  set  it  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  to  soak  for  two  hours  or  more.  Then  add  two  eggs,  sugar,  raisins 
and  spices  to  taste;  put  on  the  hot  stove  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  stir- 
ring well  to  mix  the  meal  with  the  milk;  bake  about  one  hour  and  serve 
hot.  Mrs.  J.  H.  T. 

HOLIDAY  PUDDING. 

Six  ounces  of  malaga  raisins,  two  ounces  of  orange  peel,  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  of  macaroons,  five  pounds  of  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch, two  cupfuls  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar.  In  the  cake  mold  put  a  row  of  raisins  and  bits  of  preserved 
orange  peel,  then  a  row  of  macaroons,  then  a  row  of  raisins,  and  so  on, 
the  last  being  a  row  of  macaroons.  Don't  fill  the  mold.  Make  a  sauce 
of  five  eggs,  corn-starch,  milk  and  sugar,  and  mix  the  whole.  Pour  this 
sauce  into  the  mold,  put  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  an  oven  not  too 
warm.     Knock  out  the  pudding  and  serve  with  the  following  sauce: 

Sauce. — Beat  together  two  yolks  of  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch, four  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  (pulverized),  one  tablespoonful  of  rum, 
two  cupfuls  of  cream  till  thick  enough  and  warm,  but  don't  boil. 

H.  F.  L. 
PLUn  PUDDING. 

Take  one  quart  can  of  large  egg  plums,  leave  out  the  juice  and 
put  into  an  ordinary  sized  pudding  dish.  Pour  over  it  the  following  ingre- 
dients, well  mixed:  Three  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of 
butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.     Bake  forty-five  minutes.     Now  take 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  281 

the  juice  of  the  plums  and  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  boil  three  minutes 
and  serve  as  a  sauce.  The  latter  can  be  thickened  with  a  little  corn- 
starch if  desired.  Miss  Clara  Stice. 

ENGLISH  PLUn  PUDDINQ. 

Take  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  suet,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
dry  light  brown  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  currants  washed  and 
dried  thoroughly,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  raisins,  four  nutmegs  grated 
and  sifted  through  a  small  tea  strainer  and  thoroughly  mixed,  so  they  will 
not  be  lumpy;  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied  lemon  peel,  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  of  citron,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  fine  salt,  mixed  in  the 
same  way  as  the  nutmegs,  baker's  bread  enough  to  make  a  quantity  equal 
in  bulk  to  the  suet.  Use  only  the  crumb  of  the  loaf,  rejecting  the  crust. 
It  will  take  nearly  one  and  one-half  loaves  of  ordinary  size,  one-half  pint 
of  flour,  nine  eggs  beaten  very  light  and  milk  enough  to  wet  the  mixture. 
Chop  the  suet  first,  then  add  the  bread-crumbs,  sliced  citron  and  peel, 
raisins  and  currants.  Sift  the  salt  and  nutmegs  in,  stirring  thoroughly. 
Next  add  the  sugar  and  next  ,sift  in  the  flour.  Then  pour  in  the  eggs, 
mixing  thoroughly  as  before.  Now  comes  the  milk.  You  only  need 
sufficient  milk  to  wet  the  pudding  about  as  moist  as  mince  meat  for  pies 
should  be  made.  Then  butter  your  tin  basin  well,  put  in  your  pudding, 
leaving  room  for  a  stiff  batter  of  flour  and  water  which  must  be  spread 
over  the  whole  top  of  the  pudding  to  exclude  the  air  and  water.  Then 
take  stout,  unbleached  cotton,  tie  it  firmly  over  the  rop,  round  the  rim  of 
the  basin,  and  bring  the  corners  that  hang  down  back  again  over  the  top, 
pinning  them  securely.  Then  put  the  pudding  into  boiling  water  and  let 
it  boil  without  cessation,  eleven  hours.  The  best  way  is  to  make  them  two 
or  three  days  before  needed,  and  then  put  them  on  again  the  day  they 
are  to  be  eaten,  and  boil  from  two  to  three  hours  more.  A  pudding 
prepared  and  cooked  in  this  way  is  "fit  to  set  before  a  king."  Use  cold 
sauce  made  of  sugar,  butter  and  wine,  or  hot  brandy  sauce.  These  pud- 
dings will  keep  a  year.  Annie  R.  White. 

CHRISTMAS  PLUn  PUDDINQ. 

Chop  one  cupful  of  beef  suet,  two  cupfuls  of  bread  and  one-half  cup- 
ful of  citron.  Mix  the  citron,  one  cupful  of  seeded  raisins  and  one  cupful 
of  currants,  well  washed,  with  part  of  a  pint  of  flour.  Put  four  well-beaten 
eggs,  one  heaping  cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  one  cupful  of 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  two  of  cinnamon,  one-half  of  a  nutmeg  in 
a  bowl.  Stir  in  the  fruit,  bread-crumbs  and  suet,  putting  in  last  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water  and  adding  the  rest  of  the 


282  PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

flour.  Mix  thoroughly  and  boil  four  hours.  Turn  bottom-side  up  on  plat- 
ter, pour  over  it  some  good  brandy  and  touch  a  match  to  it.  Bring  on 
the  table  while  blazing.     Serve  with  brandy  sauce. 

Miss  Mamie  Holley. 

BOILED  CHRISTMAS  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  currants,  one-quarter 
pound  each  of  mixed  peel,  chopped  suet  and  split  almonds,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  molasses,  five  eggs,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  stale  bread-crumbs, 
two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  flavor  to  taste  and  sweeten  with 
brown  sugar.     Boil  five  or  six  hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  L.  Duncan. 

PLAIN  CHRISTMAS  PUDDING. 

Sift  and  mix  with  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking-powder;  chop  fine  one  pound  of  suet  and  mix  with  it  ten  well- 
beaten  eggs,  one  teacupful  of  milk,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one 
pound  of  raisins  seeded  and  chopped  and  the  same  quantity  of  currants, 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and  ground  cloves,  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon  and  two  ounces  of  citron.  Mix  thoroughly,  dip 
the  pudding  cloth  in  hot  water  and  sprinkle  it  with  flour;  tie  up  the  ends 
and  boil  for  five  hours.  For  those  who  desire  a  colonial  finish  to  the 
pudding,  when  done  turn  it  out  on  a  platter,  pour  over  a  little  brandy  and 
touch  a  match  to  it.  Carry  it  to  the  table  while  blazing.  To  be  eaten 
with  any  rich  sauce.  Mary  Evarts. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. 

Mix  with  one  pound  of  sweet  potatoes,  grated  raw,  one-half  teacupful 
of  molasses,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  thin  mixture;  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ginger  and  spice  to  taste.     Bake  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Chef  Palmer  House  Chicago. 

FLORENTINE  PUDDING. 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  into  a  pan  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  mix  smoothly 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  and  a  little  cold  milk;  add  the  yolks 
of  three  beaten  eggs,  one  half  teacupful  of  sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste; 
stir  into  the  boiling  milk  and  stir  until  of  the  consistency  of  starch 
ready  to  use,  then  put  into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Beat  the 
whites  of  eggs  with  a  teacupful  of  pulverized  sugar,  spread  over  the  top 
and  place  in  the  oven  to  brown.  *  Mary  Bennett. 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  283 

A  FINE  BREAD  PUDDING. 

Take  one  pint  of  nice  bread-crumbs,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon 
and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Bake  until  done.  Whip  the 
whites  of  four  eggs,  and  beat  in  one  cupful  of  pulverized  sugar  to  which  has 
been  added  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Spread  over  the  pudding  a  layer  of 
jelly  or  raspberry  jam  or  any  sweetmeat  best  liked,  then  pour  over  it  the 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Set  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly.  Serve  cold  with 
cream.  This  is  an  excellent  dessert  for  an  elaborate  dinner  as  it  may  be 
made  early  in  the  morning,  and  so  be  ready  for  the  table. 

Mrs.  Jane  Searles. 

DELICIOUS  BREAD  PUDDING. 

One-half  pint  of  bread-crumbs  (no  crusts),  one  pint  of  sweet  milk. 
Dissolve  bread  in  that.  Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  granulated 
sugar,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  &gg', 
beat  all  together.  Turn  into  a  pudding  dish,  setting  that  in  a  pan  of  water 
and  bake  till  it  thickens,  about  one-half  hour.  Take  out  and  squeeze  over 
it  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  cover  with  beaten  whites,  sweetened  and  brown. 
Serve  hot  and  at  once  before  it  falls.  Miss  Webster. 

BREAD  CUSTARD  PUDDING. 

Make  one  pint  of  custard,  cut  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter  to  fill  the 
pudding  dish,  and  over  each  layer  throw  currants,  sugar,  finely-cut  candied 
lemon  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Pour  the  custard  over  by  degrees  so  that  the 
bread  may  be  well  saturated,  and  let  it  stand  one  hour  before  putting  it 
into  the  oven.  Just  before  it  is  put  in,  pour  over  the  last  of  the  custard 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one-half  hour.  Jane  Klempe. 

GOOSEBERRY  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  scalded  gooseberries  rubbed  smooth  when  cold  with  the 
back  of  a  spoon.  Take  of  the  pulp  six  tablespoonfuls,  one-half  pound  of 
sugar,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  six  eggs,  the  grated  rind 
of  two  lemons  and  a  handful  of  grated  bread.     Bake  thirty  minutes. 

Mary  Hawthorne. 

GREEN  GOOSEBERRY  PUDDING. 

Line  a  tart  dish  with  light  puff  paste;  boil  for  one-quarter  of  an  hour 
one  quart  of  gooseberries  with  one-half  pound  of  sugar  and  a  teacupful  of 
water.     Beat  the  fruit  up  with  one-fifth  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  the 


•284  PUDDINGS  AND   PUDDING  SAUCES. 

yolks  of  three  well-beaten  eggs,  and  the  grated  crumbs  of  a  stale  roll. 
These  should  be  added  when  the  fruit  is  cool.  Pour  the  mixture  into  the 
dish  and  bake  the  pudding  for  from  one-half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Mrs.  C.  Clark. 
LEMON  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one  pint  of  bread-crumbs,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^gg,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon;  bake  one-half  hour,  then  take  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Beat  the  whites  until  stiff  add 
the  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  spread  it  on  the  pudding,  place  in  the  oven 
and  brown.  Mrs.  C.  Fay. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  with  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  beat  in  the  yolks,  then  the  milk  and 
soda,  the  salt,  and  the  beaten  whites  alternately  with  the  flour.  Bake  in 
a  buttered  mold;  turn  out  upon  a  dish;  cut  in  slices;  eat  with  vanilla 
sauce.  Mrs.  O.  P.  Morris. 

ALMOND  PUDDING. 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler;  stir  into  it  one  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour  that  has  been  stirred  to  a  cream  with  a  little 
of  the  milk.  When  cooked,  take  from  the  fire  and  let  cool.  Have  ready 
one  pound  qf  sweet  almonds  blanched  and  pounded.  Stir  into  the  milk; 
add  a  pinch  of  salt,  one-third  cupful  of  sugar,  flavoring  and  two  well- 
beaten  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately.  Put  bits  of  butter 
over  the  top.     Bake  one  hour.  Emily  Goodwiin. 

CRACKER  PUDDING. 

Grate  soda  crackers,  pour  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  over,  cover  close. 
When  they  have  stood  one  hour  beat  them  fine  with  a  spoon.  Foam  two 
eggs  and  add  to  it  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet,  salt,  and  one-half 
pound  of  seedless  raisins.  Boil  two  and  one-half  hours  and  serve  with 
brandy  sauce,  or  a  sweet  sauce.  S.  Shea. 

CRACKER  PUDDING— No.  2. 

Grate  crackers  (soda  or  Boston  preferred)  and  pour  one  pint  of  boil- 
ing milk  over  them,  covering  them  closely  with  a  plate  or  tin.  After  they 
have  soaked  two  hours  beat  thcni  fine  with  an  iron  spoon;  then  beat  two 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  285 

eggs  to  a  foam,  stir  them  in,  add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet  shredded 
and  chopped  very  fine.  Stone  one-half  pound  of  raisins  and  add  with  a 
little  salt.     Boil  this  two  and  one-half  hours  and  serve  with  sauce. 

Emma  Hinman. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

Take  four  good-sized  oranges,  peel,  seed  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Add  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  let  it  stand.  Into  one  quart  of  nearly  boiling 
milk,  stir  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  mixed  with  a  little  water  and 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  When  it  is  done  let  It  cool  and  then  mix  with 
the  orange.  Make  a  frosting  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  one-half  cup- 
ful of  sugar.  Spread  it  over  the  top  of  the  pudding  and  place  the  whole 
for  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Hattie  Marchant. 

MARHALADE  PUDDING. 

Two  cupfuls  of  fine  stale  bread-crumbs,  one  cupful  of  rich  milk,  half 
cream  preferred,  yolks  of  five  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  soda  stirred  in  boiling  water,  one  cupful  of  sweet  marmalade.  Scald 
the  milk  and  pour  over  the  crumbs.  Beat  until  half  cold  and  stir  in  the 
beaten  yolks,  then  the  soda.  Fill  the  pudding  dish  two-thirds  full  with 
the  batter,  set  in  a  quick  oven  and  bake  one-half  hour.  When  done  turn 
out  quickly  and  spread  over  the  top  a  liberal  spoonful  of  marmalade. 
Cover  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  return  to  the  oven  to 
brown.  Alice  Brooks  Potter. 

M0LASSE5  PUDDING. 

One-half  cupful  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of  hot 
water,  one-fourth  of  a  small  cupful  of  melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  pinch  of  salt;  steam  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Sauce. — One  cupful  of  sugar,  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  the  yolk  of 
one  ^^^,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
boiling  water;  when  ready  to  serve  add  the  beaten  white  of  one  ^%'g. 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Schallenberger. 

HOMINY  PUDDING. 

Two  cupfuls  of  cold  boiled  hominy,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter, three  well-beaten  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk;  mix  thoroughly, 
season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper;  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  for  one-half 
hour.     Serve  with  meat  course  at  dinner.  Pearl  Barker. 


286  PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

BAKEWELL  PUDDING. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  a  rich  crust;  spread  a  layer  of  strawberry  pre- 
serves, sprinkle  two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely-chopped  blanched  almonds 
and  one-half  ounce  of  candied  lemon  peel,  cut  in  shreds,  then  mix  the  fol- 
lowing ingredients:  One-half  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  of  melted  butter,  four  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs;  add  a  few 
drops  of  essence  of  almond;  beat  all  together  and  pour  over  the  dish; 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  middle  seems  firm;  when  cold  sprinkle 
powdered  sugar  over  the  top.     To  be  eaten  cold  with  or  without  cream. 

Minnie  Peck. 

CURRANT  PUDDING. 

Five  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  and  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder  sifted  well  together,  add  one-half  cupful  of  chopped  suet  or  butter, 
one-half  pound  of  currants  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Wash  and  dry  the  currants, 
chop  the  suet  fine;  mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  moisten  with 
sufficient  milk  to  make  the  pudding  into  a  stiff  batter;  tie  it  up  in  a  floured 
bag  leaving  sufficient  room  for  it  to  swell;  put  it  into  boiling  water  and 
boil  for  three  and  one-half  hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  Henry  Bower. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

Wash  one-half  cupful  of  rice  and  put  in  a  two-quart  basin.  Add  to  it 
two-thirds  cupful  of  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quart  of 
milk.  Grate  over  it  a  little  nutmeg  or  flavor  it  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Bake  slowly  one  and  one-half  hours.     Eat  with  lemon  sauce.' 

Mrs.  Mary  Tatman. 

RICE  PUDDING— No.  2. 

One-half  cupful  of  rice  in  three  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk;  steam  until 
rice  is  soft,  then  add  one  pint  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  cream,  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  with  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Place  to 
boil,  and  stir  constantly.  W^hen  cooked  put  in  an  earthen  dish  and  spread 
frosting  over  it  made  of  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  five  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  beaten  and  flavored.     Let  brown.  E.  Plunkett. 

GRAPE  RICE  PUDDING. 

Wash  and  stem  two  cupfuls  of  grapes,  remove  the  skins,  then  heat 
so  as  to  put  through  colander  and  remove  seeds.     Put  pulp  and  skins 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  287 

together.     Put  into  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  among  them  one-half  cupful 

each  of  boiled  rice  and  sugar,  pour  over  them  one-half  cupful  of  water, 

cover  close  and  bake  two  hours  in  slow  oven.     Serve  cold  with  cream. 

G.  H.  P. 
LEMON  RICE  PUDDING. 

For  a  small  pudding  cook  one-half  cupful  of  rice,  add  one  pint  of 
milk,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  the  grated  peel 
of  one  lemon.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done  beat  the  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  sugar  sufficient  to  thicken,  and  the  juice  of 
one  lemon.  Spread  evenly  over  the  pudding  and  return  to  the  oven  and 
brown  a  very  little.  Guillia  G.  Williams. 

GROUND  RICE  PUDDING. 

Mix  two  ounces  of  ground  rice  smoothly  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
thick  cream.  Add  one-half  pint  of  new  milk  which  has  been  boiled  with 
an  inch  of  cinnamon  or  the  rind  of  a  lemon.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  the 
mixture  thickens  and  add  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  two  ounces  of  sugar 
and  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt.  Pour  the  pudding  into  a  basin  and  when  cold 
mix  with  it  the  yolks  of  three  and  the  white  of  one  ^gg  and  a  wine-glass- 
ful of  sherry,  or  one-half  wine-glassful  of  brandy.  Put  some  apricot  or 
any  other  jam  at  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pie  dish,  cover  with  the  mix- 
ture, and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Sift  a  little  pounded  cinnamon  or 
powdered  sugar  over  the  pudding  before  serving.  Mrs.  M.  Francis. 

APPLE  AND  ENTIRE-WHEAT  BREAD  PUDDING, 

One  pint  of  entire-wheat  bread-crumbs,  one  pint  of  chopped  apples, 
mix  and  add  two-thirds  cupful  of  chopped  suet  or  butter,  one  cupful  of 
raisins  seeded,  one  G:gg,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  small  teaspoonful 
of  baking-powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  with  one-half  pint 
of  milk  and  boil  or  steam  about  two  hours.     Serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 

Alice  Hill. 
RYE-BREAD  PUDDING. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  blanched  almonds, 
one-half  cupful  of  citron;  one  cupful  of  grated  rye  bread,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.     Bake  forty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Hayes. 
FARINA  TART  PUDDING. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a  cupful  of 
zwiebach  (German  toast),  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  farina.     If  you  do 


288  PUDDINGS  AAD  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

not  wish  the  toasted  bread  substitute  a  full  cupful  of  farina.  Add  one- 
half  pound  of  shelled  walnuts,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Bake 
and  make  a  cream  filling.  Mrs.  H.  A.  Bonard. 

FARINA  PUDDING. 

To  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  boiling  milk  add  one-half  cupful  of 
farina  and  cook  seven  or  eight  minutes.  Rub  together  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and 
one  dozen  blanched  almonds.  Then  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten 
to  a  froth.  This  pudding  should  be  boiled  in  a  mold  one  hour  and  any 
pudding  sauce  is  suitable  to  accompany  it.  Mrs.  C.  Baldwin. 

MINUTE  PUDDING. 

(New  England  Style.) 

Set  a  granite  saucepan  on  the  stove,  the  bottom  and  sides  buttered, 
put  into  it  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
when  it  boils  sift  into  the  boiling  milk  white  or  graham  flour,  sifting  it 
through  the  fingers,  a  handful  at  a  time,  until  it  becomes  smooth  and 
rather  thick.  Turn  it  into  a  dish  that  has  been  dipped  in  water.  Serve 
with  sweetened  cream.  This  pudding  is  improved  by  adding  canned  or 
fresh  berries  just  before  taking  from  the  stove. 

A  True  Vermonter. 

MILTON  PUDDING. 

Use  one  pint  of  staple  bread  broken  in  crumbs,  one  quart  of  milk,  two 
eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinna- 
mon, three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  two  ounces  of  chocolate,  grated. 
Put  the  bread,  milk,  cinnamon,  and  chocolate  in  a  bowl  and  soak  for  two 
or  three  hours.  Beat  together  eggs,  sugar  and  salt.  Mash  the  soaked 
bread  with  a  spoon  and  add  the  egg  mixture  to  the  bread  and  milk. 
Pour  into  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  about  forty  minutes. 
Serve  with  an  egg  sauce  or  a  vanilla  cream  sauce.  Maria  Parloa. 

RHUBARB  PUDDING. 

Chop  enough  rhubarb  to  nearly  fill  your  baking  dish  and  sprinkle 
sugar  over  it.  Mix  in  another  dish  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  flour  to  make  a 
batter  as  for  cake.  Spread  over  the  rhubarb  and  bake  until  done.  Turn 
out  on  the  platter  upside  down  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Mrs.  I.  R.  Dalzill. 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 


289 


RHUBARB  PUDDING— No.  2. 

Line  the  pudding  dish  with  thin  sHces  of  bread  and  butter,  cover 
with  rhubarb  cut  into  two-inch  lengths  strewed  with  sugar.  Then  alter- 
nate slices  of  bread  with  a  layer  of  rhubard  till  the  dish  is  full,  having  the 
rhubarb  on  top.  Pour  in  one-half  teacupful  of  water,  cover  with  a  plate 
and  bake  one-half  hour.     Eat  with  cream  sauce. 

Mrs.  Eliza  Fromington. 

NEAPOLITAN  CUSTARD  PUDDING. 

Cut  two  sponge  cakes  into  slices  and  spread  a  little  jam  over  each 
slice.  Place  them  in  a  buttered  pie  dish,  sprinkle  over  them  six  or  seven 
powdered  biscuits,  a  little  bitter  almond  flavor  and  pour  over  the  whole  a 
custard  made  as  follows: 

Custard.— Sweeten  one-half  pint  of  milk  with  three  lumps  of  sugar 
which  have  been  well  rubbed  upon  the  rind  of  a  large  fresh  lemon.  Let 
the  custard  nearly  boil,  then  stir  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed 
smoothly  with  a  little  cold  water.  Add  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and 
stir  the  mixture  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens.  When  almost  cold  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  put  the  pudding  into  a  moderate  oven  and 
bake  until  it  stiffens.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  firm  froth,  spread 
this  on  the  top  of  the  pudding  and  sift  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  white 
sugar  over  the  surface.  Put  the  pudding  in  the  oven  again  eight  or  ten 
minutes  before  it  is  served,  that  the  eggs  may  stiffen  a  little. 

Harriet  Tibbitts. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM  PUDDING. 

One  cupful  of  tapioca  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water.  Boil  one 
quart  of  milk  and  stir  in  the  tapioca;  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Dissolve  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  in  one-half  cupful  of 
milk  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  stir  into  the  tapioca;  add  a  little 
salt  sweeten  to  taste  and  boil  up  once.  Flavor  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  flavor,  spread  over  the 
pudding  and  brown  lightly  in  the  oven.  One-half  of  this  quantity  is 
sufficient  for  a  good-sized  family.  Mrs.  Lottie  Miller. 

BAKED  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Wash  four  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  water,  let  it  boil  with  one  quart 
of  milk  and  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon  or  an  orange,  or  one  inch  of  cinnamon. 
Pour  it  into  a  basin,  let  it  get  cold,  sweeten  it  and  take  out  the  peel.     Beat 


290  PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

it  up  with  three  eggs  and  an  ounce  of  butter.  Pour  it  into  a  buttered  dish 
and  bake  the  pudding  in  a  hot  oven.  The  edge  of  the  dish  may  be  lined 
with  puff  paste  or  not.  Mrs.  E.  Eaton. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Soak  one  cupful  of  tapioca  over  night  in  six  cupfuls  of  water.  Next 
morning  add  six  large  tart  apples  chopped  fine,  one  cupful  of  sugar  and 
bake  slowly  about  four  hours.  Serve  either  warm  or  cold  with  sweetened 
cream.  Mrs.  H.  Hunting. 

DAMSON  PUDDING. 

Shred  up  very  finely  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet  and  rub  it 
well  into  one-half  pound  of  flour.  Use  as  much  water  as  will  make  a 
smooth,  firm  paste,  then  line  a  well-buttered  basin  and  cut  a  cover  for  the 
top.  Fill  with  the  damsons  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Tie  a  floured  cloth 
firmly  over  the  top  and  boil  steadily  two  and  one-half  to  three  hours. 
A  mixture  of  apples  and  damsons  do  well  together.  Sarah  White. 

MARROW  PUDDING. 

Rub  stale  bread  through  a  wire  sieve  to  make  one-half  pint  of  fine 
crumbs.  Pour  upon  these  one  and  one-half  pints  of  boiling  milk,  soak  a 
while,  then  add  whilst  still  hot  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  clarified  fat, 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Beat  the 
mixture  till  the  fat  is  melted,  stir  in  four  eggs,  put  the  pudding  into  a 
buttered  mold  and  boil  three  hours.  O.  C. 

RAISIN  COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

Mix  two  eggs  well  beaten  with  a  cupful  of  new  milk  and  the  milk  of 
the  cocoanut,  if  the  latter  is  quite  sweet.  Take  off  the  brown  skin  of  the 
nut  and  grate  the  white  part  as  finely  as  possible.  Mix  it  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  finely-grated  bread-crumbs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted 
sugar,  two  ounces  of  butter  beaten  to  cream,  six  ounces  of  Muscatel 
raisins,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  rind  thinly  sliced.  Beat  all  well 
together,  pour  the  mixture  into  a  well  buttered  pie  dish  and  bake  it  in  a 
rather  slow  oven.  Turn  it  out  and  serve  with  sifted  sugar  strewn  over  it. 
This  pudding  may  be  either  baked  or  boiled.  Mrs.  C.  Haddon. 

CREAM  COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  rub  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn-starch  in  a  little  cold  milk,  then  add  to  the  scalding  milk,  stirring 
until  thickened.     Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth;  add 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  291 

one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  the  whites  to  the  pudding.  Beat  well  over 
the  fire  for  three  minutes,  then  add  two  cupfuls  of  cocoanut  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  and  turn  into  a  mold  to  harden.  Serve  with  vanilla 
sauce.  Mrs.  George  Gregory. 

ENGLISH  SAGO  PUDDING. 

Three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  pearl  sago  washed  and  put  into  one 
quart  of  milk;  let  it  stand  on  the  heater  until  the  sago  has  well  swelled. 
While  hot,  put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with  one  cupful  of  white 
sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  When  cool,  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  then  put  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  from 
one-half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  when  done  remove  and  place  to 
cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  till 
light  and  frothy;  spread  the  pudding  with  either  jelly  or  jam  and  then 
cover  with  frosting;  put  in  the  oven  for  a  couple  of  minutes  to  brown. 

A.  F.  G. 

CREAM  SAGO  OR  APPLE  SAGO  PUDDING. 

Make  the  same  as  Cream  Tapioca  and  Apple  Tapioca  Pudding,  substituting  sago  for  tapioca. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

Pour  upon  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  (dissolved  in  a  little 
cold  water),  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  little  sugar.  Pour  into  a  pudding  dish  and 
steam  fifteen  minutes. 

Sauce. — Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cup- 
ful of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  boil  until  it  thickens. 

Mae  Brown. 
STEAMED  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

One  cupful  each  of  molasses,  bread-crumbs,  water,  flour  and  currants. 
Also  one  ^gg  beaten,  three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Mix  all  together 
lightly,  and  pour  into  a  tin  pail  with  cover.  Steam  two  hours.  Eat  with 
cream  and  sugar  or  any  kind  of  pudding  sauce  preferred. 

Mrs.  O.  T.  Learned. 

CORN  PUDDING. 

From  four  good-sized  ears  of  green  corn  split  down  the  middle  of  grain 
with  a  knife,  shave  off  the  outside  and  scrape  out  all  juice  on  the  cob. 
Beat  up  four  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  with  butter  the  size  of  an 


292  PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

^gg\  then  add  one  pint  of  good  rich  sweet  milk  and  the  corn  last.  Put  in 
a  pan  with  a  little  nutmeg  grated  on  the  top  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  brown.     Serve  with  good  rich  cream.  Mrs.  Mary  A.  Dudint. 

BAKED  INDIAN  SUET  PUDDING. 

Scald  three  cupfuls  of  milk  and  pour  over  five  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
meal.  Add  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of  chopped  suet,  one- 
half  of  a  nutmeg  grated,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger  and  a  little  salt.  Butter 
a  pudding  dish,  pour  in  a  cupful  of  cold  milk,  then  the  mixture  and  bake 
well  for  two  hours.  Mrs.  Hattie  Long. 

BOILED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk  and  scald  two  cupfuls  of  corn-meal.  When  cool 
add  one  cupful  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  chopped  suet,  one 
and  one-half  cupfuls  of  molasses,  salt.  Add  two  eggs.  Boil  three  hours. 
To  be  eaten  with  maple  syrup.  F.  O.  Ray. 

EAST  INDIA  PUDDING. 

Soak  for  one  hour  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  in  a  cupful  of  milk;  stir 
into  it  three  eggs  well  beaten,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  into  which  has  been  sifted  one  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing-powder. Have  ready  one-half  cupful  of  minced  figs  and  the  same 
quantity  of  seeded  raisins.  Dredge  the  fruit  with  flour  and  stir  it  into  the 
pudding,  pour  into  a  large  pudding  mold  with  a  tight-fitting  top,  leaving 
room  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Steam  for  three  hours  and  serve  with 
sauce.  Mrs.  Dr.  Buckley. 

INDIAN  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Make  a  batter  of  one  pint  of  hot  milk  and  corn-meal  to  make  it  stiff. 
Add  one-half  cupful  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  dissolved  soda  and  one  cupful  of  currants.  Tie  the  pudding  in  a  wet 
cloth  leaving  room  for  it  to  swell,  put  it  in  boiling  water  and  boil  three 
hours.     To  be  eaten  with  maple  syrup.  Miss  R.  Cayton. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

Peel,  core  and  slice  enough  apples  to  fill  a  baking  dish.  Butter  the 
dish  thickly,  and  put  in  the  apples  in  layers,  alternating  them  with  stale 
cake-crumbs,  and  a  little  melted  butter,  using  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
latter  to  one  pint  of  apples.     Let  the  last  layer  be  a  thick  one  of  cake- 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  293 

crumbs.  Set  the  dish  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  until  the  apples  are  ten- 
der, then  beat  together  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  (more 
sugar  if  apples  are  tart),  take  one  cupful  of  milk  and  pour  over  the  apples. 
Bake  to  a  rich  golden  color  and  serve  with  cream.  Ivy  Dellbridge. 

TRANSPARENT  PUDDING. 

Beat  eight  eggs  well,  put  them  into  a  pan  with  one-half  pound  of 
finely-powdered  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  fresh  butter,  the  grated  outer 
rind  of  one  lemon  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Stir  it  over  the  fire  till 
it  thickens,  then  pour  it  into  a  basin  to  cool.  Line  the  edge  of  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  with  thin  puff  paste,  pour  in  the  pudding  and  bake  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  It  is  clear,  light  and  very 
nice,  either  cold  or  hot.  Mattie  Hughes. 

ECONOMICAL  PUDDING. 

One  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  two  cupfuls  of  chopped  apples  (tart),  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter. Butter  a  deep  dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  apples;  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
a  few  bits  of  the  butter  and  a  little  cinnamon;  proceed  in  this  manner, 
putting  a  layer  of  crumbs  between  each  and  on  the  top;  bake  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour  and  eat  with  sugar  and  cream.  Mrs.  Eliza  Martin. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

Huckleberry  pudding  is  quite  an  institution  at  our  house.  Make  a 
crust  of  flour  and  nice  beef  suet,  about  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  the 
suet  after  it  is  shredded  and  chopped  fine  to  one  quart  of  sifted  flour.  A 
little  salt  is  added,  and  it  is  wet  to  a  paste  with  very  cold  water.  Then 
roll  the  crust  out  quite  thin,  lay  berries — a  goodly  quantity  of  them — on, 
bringing  the  edges  of  the  crust  together,  lapping  and  pinching  them  so 
that  the  berries  do  not  escape.  Tie  the  pudding  up  in  a  cloth  and  boil 
till  done.  Then  remove  the  pudding  from  the  cloth  and  lay  it  on  a  plat- 
ter. Cut  a  square  hole  and  pour  in  a  coffee-cupful  of  syrup,  replace  the 
piece  of  crust  and  bring  the  pudding  to  the  table.  Syrup  for  sweetening 
is  better  than  sugar,  because  it  makes  it  juicier.  Use  a  plain  sauce  with 
this  pudding,  made  of  a  very  little  sugar,  flour,  butter  and  water,  flavored 
with  a  teacupful  of  huckleberries  crushed.     Let  come  to  a  boil. 

Agnes  Kent. 
RAISIN  PUDDING. 

These  puddings  are  light  and  nice.  Chop  suet  enough  to  make  one 
and  one-half  cupfuls,  stone  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  raisins.     (Some 


294  PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 


J 


like  less  fruit).  Take  two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  molasses, 
three  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour;  chop  the  suet  and  raisins  together  and 
mix  the  whole,  adding  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.     Steam  two  hours. 

Bertha  Gulle. 
PRINCE  ALBERT'S  PUDDINQ. 

Beat  to  a  cream  one-half  pound  of  fresh  butter  and  mix  with  an  equal 
weight  of  fine  white  sugar.  Add  to  these  first  the  yolks  and  then  the 
whites  of  five  eggs,  which  have  been  thoroughly  beaten  separately;  throw 
in  lightly  one-half  pound  of  fine  flour  and  one-half  pound  of  stoned  raisins. 
Put  these  ingredients,  well  mixed,  into  a  buttered  mold,  or  floured  cloth, 
and  boil  for  three  hours.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce.  Bertha  Prince, 

BREAD  CUSTARD  PUDDINQ. 

Three  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk,  three  well-beaten  eggs  and  one-half 
cupful  of  sugar.  Beat  thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  one-quart  dish.  Cut 
two  thin  slices  of  bread,  butter  and  lay  on  top  of  the  custard  with  the 
buttered  side  up.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  on  the  buttered  bread  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  until  brown.  S.  J.  Sawyer. 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDINQ. 

Cover  one-half  cupful  of  tapioca  with  cold  water  and  let  soak  three 
hours.  Drain  off  the  water  and  place  in  double  boiler.  Cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  until  clear.  Then  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  grated  pineapple  and  remove  from  the 
fire.     Stir  in  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff.     Serve  cold  with  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  Specht. 

APPLE,  ORANGE  OR  JAM  ROLY-POLY 

Make  a  rich  dough  as  for  biscuit.  Roll  out  one-half  inch  thick  and 
spread  thick  with  sliced  oranges,  or  thin  slices  of  tart  apples  or  damson  jam, 
or  any  fruit  jam  desired.  Roll  it  as  you  would  a  sheet  of  music,  then  lay  it 
in  long  tin  pan  with  the  lapped  side  of  the  dough  on  top  and  bake  one- 
half  hour. 

If  it  is  preferred  boiled,  tie  it  in  a  cloth  that  has  been  well  dredged 
with  flour  and  boil  for  two  hours.  A  hard  sauce  to  use  on  it  is  made  by 
beating  one-half  cupful  of  butter  with  a  cupful  of  fine  sugar  and  adding 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  at  a  time  and  still  beating  till  very  light. 
Then  add  slowly  the  flavoring — a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon.  Put 
into  a  deep  dish;  sprinkle  with  grated  nutmeg  and  let  it  harden. 

Mrs.  Ben  Forest. 


I 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  295 

PEACH  COBBLER. 

Fill  a  shallow  pudding  dish  or  deep  earthen  pie  plate  with  ripe,  peeled 
peaches  leaving  in  the  pits  to  increase  the  flavor  of  the  fruit.  Add  cold 
water  to  half  fill  the  dish  and  cover  the  whole  with  a  light  paste  rolled  to 
twice  the  thickness  used  for  pies.  Cut  slits  across  the  middle,  prick  with 
a  fork  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  The 
peaches  should  be  sugared  before  putting  on  the  crust.  Serve  either 
warm  or  cold,  the  crust  should  be  inverted  after  being  cut  into  sections, 
and  the  peaches  piled  upon  it.     Eat  with  sweet  cream. 

Mrs.  G.  Gunn. 
AMBER  PUDDING. 

Into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  stir  a  teacupful  of  corn-meal  and  one 
quart  of  sliced  sweet  apples;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  teacup- 
ful of  molasses.  Mix  thoroughly.  Add  two  quarts  of  milk;  pour  into  a 
large,  buttered  dish  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  four  hours.  When  cold,  a 
clear,  amber-colored  jelly  will  have  formed  throughout  the  pudding  and 
the  apples  will  be  of  a  rich  dark  brown.  A.  Press. 

NUT  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs,  three-fourths  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half 
cupful  of  finely  chopped  almonds,  sherry  wine  enough  to  taste,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  a  pinch  of  salt;  beat  the  eggs  separately, 
boil  the  milk,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  wine,  almonds,  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
last;  brown  the  sugar,  pour  it  around  your  pudding  mold;  steam  two 
hours.     Serve  with  brandy.  Mrs.  Leslie  Willitt. 

THRIFTY  PUDDING. 

Stale  sponge  cake,  cut  in  slices  and  laid  in  bottom  of  baking  dish;  then 
fill  to  the  top  of  dish  with  either  stewed  peaches  or  apricots;  then  put  cake 
on  top  in  slices  and  make  a  meringue  of  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  light  and 
then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  spread  over  top  and  put  into  oven 
to  harden  for  a  few  moments;  serve  cold  with  cream. 

A  Faithful  Helpmate. 

FRUIT  PUDDING  (STEAMED). 

One  teacupful  each  of  molasses,  water,  suet  (chopped  fine)  and  seeded 
raisins,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  and  one-half  teacupfuls  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  allspice,  a  pinch  of  cloves,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  molasses;  steam  three  hours. 


39 G  PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

Sauce. — One  teacupful  of  sugar,  three-quarters  teacupful  of  butter; 
mix  to  a  cream,  add  one  ^%^,  the  juice  of  one-half  of  a  lemon  and  one 
pint  of  boiHng  water;  cook  five  minutes.  Miss  Gilmore. 

CHERRY  ROLL. 

Make  rich  biscuit  dough;  roll  out  into  two  squares.  In  center  of 
square  heap  berries,  cherries  or  any  fresh  or  even  stewed  dried  fruit,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Pinch  the  ends  and  edges  well  as  you  fold 
over.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  butter  and  powdered  sugar 
creamed  together  or  cream  and  sugar.  Julia  Howitt. 

SPICE  PUDDING. 

One  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  molasses,  one  scant  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  one-half  cupful  of  chopped  suet  or  one-half  that  quantity 
of  butter,  a  little  salt,  spice  or  ginger  to  taste.  Fruit  may,  with  fine  effect, 
be  added.     Serve  with  brown  sauce. 

Sauce. — One  cupful  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fiour  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
molasses.     Stir  all  together  and  boil  ten  minutes.     Flavor  to  taste. 

Ina  Preston. 
OLD=FASHIONED  APPLE  JOHN. 

One  pint  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  one  cupful  of  milk,  one  quart  of  ripe  tart  apples  cut  in^ 
eighths.  Sift  flour  and  baking-powder  together.  Rub  in  the  butter  and 
mix  to  the  consistency  of  biscuit  dough.  Roll  out.  Have  the  apples 
ready,  peeled  and  cut;  put  them  in  a  deep  pie  plate  and  put  the  crust  on 
top  and  bake.  When  done,  reverse  and  cover  with  sugar  and  bits  of  but- 
ter.    Serve  with  cream  and  sugar.  Grandma  Locke. 

BLACKBERRY  ROLL. 

One  pint  of  flour  sifted  with  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder;  mix  into  this  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt;  add  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  milk  and  roll  out 
one-third  of  an  inch  thick.  Spread  thickly  with  any  kind  of  berries,  sift 
sugar  over  and  roll.     Bake  one-half  hour  and  serve  hot  with  the  following: 

Sauce. — Cream  together  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter;  one  cupful  of  mashed  berries  and  one  cupful  of  boiling  milk. 
Wet  one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  in  enough  milk  to  dissolve  it  and  stir 
in  slowly.     Let  boil  three  minutes  and  serve.  Aunt  Carrie. 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  ^^1 

DATE  PUDDING  (BOILED). 

Chop  fine  one  cupful  of  suet.  Add  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  beat  together  until  light,  then  add  one  cupful  of  milk  and 
three  cupfuls  of  flour.  Beat  until  smooth,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  of  a  nutmeg  grated,  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 
Mix  well  and  add  one  pound  of  washed,  stoned  and  chopped  dates,  slightly- 
floured;  turn  into  a  greased  mold  and  boil  continuously  for  three  hours. 
Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce.  Mrs.  A.  M.  Morris. 

HEALTH  PUDDING. 

One  cupful  of  tapioca,  three  generous  pints  of  cold  water,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teacupful  of  sugar,  one  tumbler  of  crab-apple 
jelly.  Wash  the  tapioca  and  soak  it  in  the  water  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing put  on  in  the  double  boiler  and  cook  one  hour,  stirring  often.  Add 
salt,  sugar  and  lastly  jelly.  Turn  into  a  mold  that  has  been  dipped  in  cold 
water  and  set  away  to  cool  and  harden.     Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

An  Old  Nurse. 
DRIED  PEACH  PUDDING. 

Let  come  to  a  boil  one  pint  of  milk;  while  hot  pour  it  over  one  pint 
of  bread-crumbs  (entire-wheat  bread  if  desired);  stir  into  this  one  tea- 
spoonful of  cold  butter  and  one  pint  of  dried  peaches  stewed  soft.  When 
all  is  cool  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar.  Put  in  a 
well-greased  pudding  dish  and  bake  one-half  hour;  serve  warm  with  hard 

sauce.  Nannie  Jennings. 

BLUEBERRY  COBBLER. 

Take  a  pudding  dish,  line  it  with   pastry  and  fill  with   ripe,  luscious 

well-picked  blueberries.     Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cover  with  a  top  crust, 

gashed  with  a  knife.     Bake  slowly  one-half  hour  and  serve  with  cream  and 

sugar.  Mary  Buttler. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

Two  cupfuls  of  graham  flour,  one  cupful  of  currants  or  raisins,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  ^gg,  one  even  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix  all  together.  Pour  into  the 
pudding  pail  and  boil  two  and  one-half  hours.  A  Mother. 

GREENING  PUDDING. 

Peel,  core  and  slice  sufficient  apples  to  fill  a  baking  dish,  butter  the 
dish   and  put  in  the  apples  in  layers,  alternating  them  with  stale  cake 


2^8  PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

crumbs  and  a  little  melted  butter,  using  two  tablcspoonfuls  of  the  latter  to 
a  pint  of  apples.  Let  the  last  layer  be  a  thick  one  of  cake  crumbs;  put  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven  until  the  apples  are  tender,  then  beat  together  two 
eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  (more  should  be  used  if  apples  are 
very  tart),  add  one  cupful  of  milk  and  pour  over  the  apples.  Bake  a  rich 
golden  color  and  serve  with  cream.  Other  tart  apples  may  be  substituted 
if  desired.  Jessie  Bartlett. 

BOILED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS  LIKE  GRANDMOTHER  MAKES. 

To  prepare  a  crust  take  one  pint  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  lard, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  | 
cream  of  tartar  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  sifted  through  the  flour. 
Use  sweet  milk  or  water  and  mix  the  dough  a  little  stiffer  than  for  bis- 
cuits; roll  out  a  little  thicker  than  pie  crust,  cut  into  squares  and  put  in 
the  center  of  each  a  nice,  sour  apple,  pared  and  cored;  fill  the  hole  left  by 
the  core  with  sugar,  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  crab-apple  jelly;  bring  the 
corners  of  the  dough  together,  pinching  them  well  to  make  a  firm  ball;  tie 
in  loose  cloths,  which  have  been  dipped  in  hot  water  and  floured  on  the 
inside.  Boil  steadily  in  plenty  of  water  one  hour.  Some  prefer  these 
steamed  or  baked.     Serve  hot  with  sweetened  cream  or  butter  and  sugar. 

Marion  Lovewell. 
FIG  PUDDING. 

One-quarter  pound  of  figs,  chopped  fine,  one-quarter  pound  of  bread- 
crumbs, one-quarter  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  of  suet, 
one-quarter  pound  of  candied  citron  and  lemon  peel  and  five  eggs.  Mix 
thoroughly;  steam  or  boil  four  hours.  Mrs.  Bryce. 

FIG  PUDDING-  No.  2. 

One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful 
of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  one 
pound  of  chopped  figs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a  pinch  of 
soda,  one-half  cupful  of  currants,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  and  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  steam  in  mould  three  hours;  serve  with 
whipped  cream  sauce.  Miss  Inez  Burbanks. 

FIG  PUDDING— No.  3. 

One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  figs  chopped  fine,  two  cupfuls  of  bread- 
crumbs, one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  suet  chopped 
fine,  two  eggs,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  dessert-spoon- 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  299 

ful    of    molasses,  one-half    grated    nutmeg,  one   tablespoonful   of   flour. 
Steam  three  hours  and  serve  with  boiled  sauce  flavored  with  lemon. 

Mrs.  Jones. 

BIRD'S  NEST  PUDDINQ. 

Pare  and  quarter  three  apples,  lay  in  well-buttered  deep  dish.  Make 
a  batter  of  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  flour,  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of 
milk,  a  little  salt,  no  sugar;  pour  over  the  apples.  Bake  forty-five  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.    Serve  with  sweet  sauce.  Mrs.  Geo.  Spence. 

PRUNE  PUDDINQ. 

One  pound  of  prunes,  one-half  pound  of  walnuts  or  almonds,  the 
whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  whipped  cream;  flavor  to  taste. 
Stew  prunes  and  when  cold  remove  stones,  then  chop  fine,  also  chop  nuts 
and  put  in  dish  with  sugar  and  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Whip  cream, 
flavor,  and  spread  on  top.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Carrick. 

PRUNE  PUDDINQ— No.  2. 

Beat  a  teacupful  of  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk. 
Add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  as  much  milk  as  will  make 
a  rather  thick  batter.  Wash  one-half  pound  of  prunes  and  simmer  them 
in  a  little  water  till  they  are  quite  soft.  Drain  off  the  liquid,  take  out  the 
stones,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  prunes  and  then  stir  them  into  the 
pudding.  Pour  the  pudding  into  a  cloth  and  tie  it  securely,  but  leave  a 
little  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Plunge  it  into  boiling  water  and  keep 
the  pudding  boiling  until  it  is  done  enough.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

Mrs.  Delia  Simpson. 

AQNEW  PUDDINQ. 

Pare  and  core  eight  russets  and  boil  them  to  a  pulp  with  the  rind  of 
one-half  lemon.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  add  to  them  three 
ounces  of  melted  butter;  sweeten  to  taste  and  beat  all  together.  Line  a 
pudding  dish  with  puff  paste,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  bake  until  it 
becomes  a  light  brown  color.     It  will  require,  to  bake,  thirty  minutes. 

H.  A.  Vane. 

SUET  PUDDINQ. 

One  cupful  of  chopped  suet,  one  teacupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  three  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  full  cupful  of  raisins, 
one  cupful  of  currants,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one-half 


300  PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves.     Steam  two  hours.      Citron  or  lemon  peel  may  be 

added  if  desired.  Mrs.  Belle  Hazen. 

SUET  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  cupful  of  chopped  suet,  one  cupful  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one 

cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  three  and  one-half  cup- 

fuls  of  flour,  one  QgQ,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of 

cinnamon  and  one-fourth  of  a  nutmeg,  a  little  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of 

soda;  boil  three  hours;  eat  with  Vanilla  or  hard  sauce. 

Minnie  Thayer. 
MONTREAL  PUDDING. 

One  cupful  of  suet,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  fruit,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda.     Steam  two  hours.  Mrs.  Geo.  Spence. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

Two  egpfs,  one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  butter, 
one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
baking-powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon. 
Mix  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks,  milk,  flavoring,  about 
one-half  of  the  flour  and  baking-powder,  then  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth  and,  lastly,  the  balance  of  the  flour.  Have  the  cake 
about  two  inches  thick  and  bake  in  a  long  tin. 

Pudding  Sauce. — One  tablespoonful  of  butter  (not  melted)  and  one 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  beat  to  a  cream.  Add  one  large  teacupful 
of  boiling  water,  let  set  on  stove  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  stirring  all  the 
time  to  avoid  being  lumpy.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  and  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Leona  Horton. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

Reserve  one  gill  of  milk  from  a  quart  and  put  the  remainder  on  the 
fire  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  with  the 
cold  milk.  Beat  two  eggs  with  one-half  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  this  to  the  corn-starch  and  milk  and 
stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  beating  well  for  a  minute.  Shave  fine  two 
ounces  of  chocolate  and  put  it  into  a  small  pan  with  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Stir  over  a  hot  fire 
until  smooth  and  glossy;  then  beat  into  the  hot  pudding.  Cook  the  pud- 
ding in  all  ten  minutes,  counting  from  the  time  the  eggs  and  corn-starch 
are  added.     Serve  cold  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream.     This  pudding 


PUDDIXGS  AXD  PC  DOING  SAUCES.  301 

can  be  poured  while  hot  into  little  cups  which  have  been  rinsed  in  cold 
water.  At  serving-time  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish,  making  a  circle,  and  fill 
the  center  of  the  dish  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  sugar  and  vanilla. 
The  eggs  ma}-  be  omitted,  in  which  case  use  one  more  tablespoonful  of 
corn-starch.  Maria  Parloa. 

CHOCOLATE  MERINGUE  PUDDING. 

For  a  small  pudding  use  one  pint  of  milk,  two  and  one-half  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  one  ounce  of  chocolate,  two  eggs,  five  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Mix  the  corn-starch  with  one  gill 
of  milk.  Put  the  remainder  of  the  milk  on  to  boil  in  the  double  boiler. 
Scrape  the  chocolate.  When  the  milk  boils,  add  the  corn-starch,  salt  and 
chocolate  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Pour  the  hot  mixture  on  this  and  beat 
well.  Turn  into  a  pudding  dish  that  will  hold  about  one  quart  and  bake 
for  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff,  dr\-  froth,  and  gradually  beat  in  the  remaining  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  the  vanilla.  Spread  this  on  the  pudding  and  return  to  the 
oven.  Cook  for  fifteen  minutes  longer,  but  with  the  oven  door  open. 
Ser\'e  either  hot  or  cold.  !Maria  Parloa. 

APPLE  SLUnP. 

Cut  apples  as  for  pies  and  fill  a  rich  undercrust  of  a  good  thickness; 
cover  with  a  thick  top  crust  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  about  one  hour; 
when  baked  remove  the  top  crust,  add  sweetening,  seasoning,  and  butter 
one-half  the  size  of  an  &gg\  then  remove  part  of  the  apple.  Place  the  top 
crust  in  an  inverted  position  upon  what  remains,  and  the  apple  that  has 
been  taken  out  on  top  of  that.     Should  be  eaten  hot.  \V.  T.  M. 

BROWN  BETTY. 

One  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  two  cupfuls  of  chopped  tart  apples,  one- 
half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Butter  a  deep  dish  and  put  a  layer  of  the 
chopped  apple  at  the  bottom;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  a  few  bits  of  butter  and 
cinnamon ;  cover  with  bread-crumbs,  then  with  more  apple.  Proceed  in  this 
order  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  a  layer  of  crumbs  at  the  top.  Cover 
closely  and  steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven;  then 
uncover  and  brown  quickly.  Eat  warm  with  sugar  and  cream  or  sweet 
sauce.     Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked. 

Mrs.  Eliza  Pousland. 


302  PUDDINGS  AND   PUDDING  SAUCES. 

BROWN  BETTY— No.  2. 

To  one-third  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  soaked  in  three  cupfuls  of  milk 
until  soft,  add  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  apples  chopped  finely.  Add  one- 
half  tumbler  of  sugar,  one  egg  broken  into  the  mixture,  one  teaspoonful 
of  butter  and  a  little  nutmeg.     Stir  thoroughly  and  bake  like  a  custard. 

Eliza  Thompson. 
DELICIOUS  APPLE  DUHPLINQS. 

Chop  one  pound  of  suet  very  fine.  Add  a  little  salt  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  dough,  when  wet  up  with  cold  water.  Knead  this  as  little  as 
possible — only  enough  to  roll  out  and  cut.  Pare,  core  and  quarter  tart 
apples.  Cover  each  apple  with  dough,  pressing  it  together  so  it  will  not 
burst  open  and  wrap  white  cloth  about  it,  first  wetting  the  cloth  in  hot 
water.  Pin  each  dumpling  tightly  up  and  drop  it  into  boiling  water.  Do 
not  let  them  cease  boiling  until  done.  An  hour's  time  is  ample.  Make  a 
sweet  sauce  for  them  or  eat  butter  and  sugar  upon  them. 

Mrs.  Lydia  Floyd. 
SNITZ  CLOSE. 

Make  a  dumpling  of  two  eggs  to  one  quart  of  flour  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt;  add  sufficient  water  to  make  a  drop  dumpling;  take  one- 
half  pound  of  dried  peaches,  one-half  pound  of  prunes  and  one-half  pound 
of  raisins;  put  fruit  in  the  kettle  with  just  enough  water  so  that  the  fruit 
will  boil;  then  drop  dumpling  in  the  kettle  and  boil  slowly  about  two 
hours.    Serve  hot.  Minette  Rowley. 

NEW  YEAR'S  BAKED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Mince  eight  peeled  and  cored  apples,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
little  water  and  when  partly  cooked  add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  cleaned 
currants,  the  same  of  stoned  raisins,  the  same  of  shredded  citron  and  the 
same  weight  of  peeled  almonds,  cut  small,  also  four  ounces  of  brown 
sugar,  a  little  cinnamon  and  allspice;  cook  until  it  forms  a  perfect  mar- 
malade. Make  a  paste  with  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  chopped  beef  suet, 
one-half  pound  of  flour,  a  little  salt  and  cold  water;  roll  it  out  quite  thin 
on  a  floured  table.  Grease  and  strew  with  brown  sugar  and  cinnamon 
the  inside  of  a  deep  yellow  bowl,  cover  the  bottom  with  a  round  flat  of  the 
paste  to  fit,  on  this  pour  a  thick  layer  of  the  marmalade,  then  another  flat 
of  the  paste,  and  repeat  till  there  are  three  layers  of  fruit  and  four  of 
paste,  finishing  with  the  latter.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  slack  oven  and  let 
bake  slowly  three  hours.  When  cooked  and  partly  cold  invert  on  a 
round  dish,  strew  plentifully  with  sugar  and  put  it  back  into  the  oven  to 
heat  thoroughly  and  glaze.     Serve  hot.  C.  A.  H. 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  303 

Sauces  For  Pudding's. 

PLAIN  PUDDING  5AUCE. 

To  one  cupful  of  sugar  add  one  egg  and  beat  very  hard.  Add  one 
tablespoonful  of  boiling  water  and  set  on  the  stove  to  warm;  flavor  to 
taste.     This  is  a  good  sauce  for  almost  any  pudding.  E.  S. 

EGG  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth;  and  beat  into  this,  a 
little  at  time,  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar.  When  smooth  and  light  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Beat  the  mixture  a 
minute  longer;  then  stir  in  one  cupful  of  whipped  cream  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk.     Serve  at  once.  Maria  Parloa. 

VANILLA  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  gradually  beat  into 
this  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar.  When  this  is  light  and 
cream}'  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  then  gradually  beat  in  two  cupfuls 
of  whipped  cream.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  stir  con- 
stantly for  three  minutes.     Pour  the  sauce  into  a  warm  bowl  and  serve. 

Maria  Parloa. 
CHOCOLATE  SAUCE. 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  in  the  double  boiler  and  on  the  fire.  Shave  two 
ounces  of  chocolate  and  put  it  in  a  small  pan  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  two  of  boiling  water.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy 
and  add  to  the  hot  milk.  Beat  together  for  eight  minutes  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt  and 
then  add  one  gill  of  cold  milk.  Pour  the  boiling  milk  on  this,  stirring 
well.  Return  to  the  double  boiler  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Pour  into  a  cold  bowl  and  set  the  bowl  in  cold  water.  Stir  for 
a  few  minutes  and  then  occasionally  until  the  sauce  is  cold.  This  sauce 
is  nice  for  cold  or  hot  corn-starch  pudding,  bread  pudding,  cold  cabinet 
pudding,  snow  pudding,  etc.  It  will  also  answer  for  a  dessert.  Fill  cus- 
tard glasses  with  it  and  serve  the  same  as  soft  custard;  or  have  the  glasses 
two-thirds  full  and  heap  up  with  whipped  cream.  Miss  Parloa. 

RICH  BRANDY  SAUCE. 

Stir  a  small  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  in  a  little  cold  water  to  a 
•".mooth  paste;    add  to  it  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a 


304  PUDDINGS  AND   PUDDING  SAUCES. 

small  piece  of  butter;    boil  all  together  five  minutes.     Remove  from  thei 
fireand  when  cool,  stir  into  it  one-half  cupful  of  brandy.  J.  E.  P. 

BRANDY  SAUCE— No.  2. 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  wine-glassful 
of  brandy.  Warm  the  butter  slightly  and  work  it  to  a  light  cream  with 
the  sugar,  then  add  the  brandy;  beat  it  hard  and  set  aside  until  wanted 
Should  be  put  into  a  fancy  mold.  H.  F.  L. 

WINE  SAUCE. 

One-half  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  a  wine- 
glassful  of  wine.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Add  the  sugar  gradually 
and  when  very  light  add  the  wine.  Flavor  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 
Place  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of  hot  water  and  stir  for  three  minutes. 

A.  P.  U. 

PLUM  PUDDING  SAUCE. 

Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  granite  pan  over  a  slow  fire; 
when  melted  stir  in  two  scant  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  When  well  mixed 
pour  in  gradually  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  hot  water  and  stir  until 
cooked;  then  add  one-half  pound  of  brown  sugar,  the  juice  of  one-fourth 
of  a  lemon  and  a  small  quantity  of  grated  nutmeg.  Serve  soon  as  the  sugar 
has  dissolved.  E.  J.  C. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

Beat  well  together  a  teacupful  of  sugar  and  one-half  teacupful  of  but- 
ter. Flavor  to  taste.  Shape  into  a  pyramid  and  place  on  a  fancy  dish. 
Soft  sauce  is  made  by  adding  to  the  above  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  beating 
well,  and  stirring  sugar,  butter  and  &gg  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water  over 
the  fire.     Stir  till  it  foams,  when  it  is  done.  P.  W.  B. 

VANILLA  SAUCE— No.  2. 

To  one-half  cupful  of  butter  add  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar;  just  before  serv- 
ing add  one-quarter  of  a  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Stir  well  and  then  add 
one  egg,  the  white  only  of  which  has  been  whipped,  and  beat  all  to  a  foam. 

B.  DOLLIVER. 

APPLE  JELLY  SAUCE. 

Whip  a  teacupful  of  apple  jelly  until  it  is  thin  and  smooth;  add 
gradually  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemon   and 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  305 

grated  peel,  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg.  Put  in  a  cup  or 
bowl  inside  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  heat  it  to  the  boiling  point,  stir- 
ring steadily  all  the  time,  then  beat  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  a  glassful  of  wine.  Cover  it  closely  and  let  it  stand  in 
the  boiling  water  until  wanted.  Stir  occasionally  and  beat  up  well  before 
pouring  out.  C.  L.  T. 

ORANGE  SAUCE. 

Mix  one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Squeeze  the  juice  from  three  oranges  and  heat  it.  When  sufficiently  hot 
add  corn-starch  and  sugar  and  cook  till  clear.  Martha  Haines. 

ARROWROOT  SAUCE. 

Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot  with  cold  water,  then  add  one-third 
of  a  pint  of  water,  a  glassful  of  milk,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  sugar  and 
flavoring.     Stir  it  over  the  fire  till  it  boils.  M.  A.  C. 

TRANSPARENT  SAUCE— FOR  FRITTERS. 

Mix  one  small  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  with  one  small  teacupful 
of  sugar,  stir  in  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  juice  of  one-half  of  a 
lemon  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  transparent, 
being  careful  that  it  does  not  burn.     Excellent.  E.  M.  C. 

FOAMING  SAUCE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  melt  a  teacupful  of  sugar 
in  a  little  water  and  let  it  boil.  Stir  in  a  small  glass  of  wine,  then  the 
whites  of  the  eggs.     Serve  at  once.  P.  B.  M. 

BROWN  SAUCE. 

Mix  one-half  teacupful  of  brown  sugar  with  one-half  the  quantity  of 
butter;  add  one  pint  of  hot  water  and  a  little  vinegar  with  such  flavoring 
as  may  be  desired.  Use  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  moistened  with  milk  as 
a  thickening,  and  boil.     Should  be  served  hot.  E.  J.  S. 

DUMPLING  SAUCE. 

Boil  one  pint  of  water  and  a  teacupful  of  brown  sugar  together; 
thicken  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  cold  water;  when 
cooked  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  little  salt.     Flavor  to  taste. 

A.  P.  T. 


306  PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

SPANISH  SAUCE. 

One  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  in  one-half  teacupful  of  boiling 
water;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
teacupful  of  sugar  and  one-half  of  a  nutmeg,  grated.  G.  P.  C. 

PARIS  SAUCE. 

(For  sweet  dumplings.) 

Put  a  glassful  of  grape  juice  into  an  enameled  saucepan  with  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Stir  the  mixture  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  very  gradually  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream;  the  sauce  must  not  boil  after  the  cream  is 
added.  Maria  Peel. 

EMPRESS  SAUCE. 

A  delicate  sauce  for  rice  puddings,  apple  dumplings,  etc.,  is  one  part 
sweet  cream,  two  parts  boiling  water;  sweeten  well  and  flavor  with  pow- 
dered mace.  Mrs.  Laura  Morey. 

CHERRY,  BLUEBERRY,  BLACKBERRY  OR  STRAWBERRY  SAUCE. 

Cream  together  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Add  one  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  put  into  a  double  boiler. 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  previously 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  Let  heat  thoroughly.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  stir  in  a  cupful  of  any  desired  fruit,  crushed.     Serve  hot. 

A.  T.  B. 
STRAWBERRY  SAUCE— COLD. 

Cream  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  ripe  crushed  strawber- 
ries; fine  for  cottage  pudding,  plain  boiled  tapioca  and  other  simple  pud- 
dings; gives  flavor  of  strawberry  short-cake.  A.  D.  F. 

FRUIT  SAUCE. 

Cream  equal  parts  of  butter  and  granulated  sugar  together  with 
enough  fruit  jam  or  juice  to  flavor  the  sauce  as  desired.  E.  C.  A. 

BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Put  one-half  cupful  of  butter  into  a  basin,  work  into  it  one  cupful  of 
sugar.  Pour  in  enough  raspberry  juice  to  color  and  flavor  it.  Especially 
good  for  batter  puddings.  E.  J.  B. 


PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES.  307 

ENGLISH  SWEET  SAUCE. 

Put  into  a  bowl  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar  and  stir  until  it  becomes  creamy.  Add  one-half  pint  of 
sweet  cream,  little  by  little,  beating  constantly,  and  grate  in  the  rind  of 
one  orange.  Place  the  pan  on  a  slow  fire  and  stir  well  for  five  minutes, 
being  careful  not  to  let  boil.     Strain  and  serve.  A.  T.  O, 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

Let  come  to  a  boil  one  pint  of  water  and  one  cupful  of  sugar,  then  stir 
in  three  large  teaspoonfuls  of  corn-starch  previously  mixed  with  a  little 
cold  water,  stir  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  but  do  not  let  it  boil;  then 
add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter. Serve  warm.  T.  C.  M. 
FOAHY  SAUCE  FOR  STEAMED  PUDDINGS. 

Beat  one  ^g^  light,  add  a  scant  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  then  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  milk;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  serve  imme- 
diately. Mrs.  Tillie  Bassett. 


308  PUDDINGS  AND  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

Dominion  Specials. 

SCRAPPLE. 

Cook  two  pounds  each  of  beef  and  fresh  pork  until  done;  then  take 
from  the  fire  and  remove  bones,  retaining  the  broth.  Chop  the  meat, 
return  it  to  kettle  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Let  come  to  a  boil^ 
stir  in  corn-meal  and  make  it  about  as  thick  as  mush,  then  turn  into 
pans.     When  cold  cut  in  thin  slices  and  fry  as  mush  to  a  golden  brown. 

M.  White. 
QUAKER  OATS  BLANC  MANQE. 

Bring  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  to  a  boil,  salt  slightly  and  stir  in  one 
cupful  of  quaker  oats.  Cook  thirty  minutes,  stirring  well.  Just  before 
removing  from  the  fire  stir  in  one  e.gg  well  beaten  and  add  one-half 
cupful  of  dried  fruit  which  has  soaked  until  soft.  Serve  with  cream  and 
sugar  for  dessert.  Tillie  Richmond. 

WHEATLET  FOR  LUNCHEON. 

Wash,  stone  and  chop  one-half  cupful  of  dates.  Cook  thoroughly 
the  wheatlet  and  just  before  placing  in  molds  add  the  dates.  Serve  with 
cream  and  sugar.  Mrs.  T.  Percival. 

CEREAL  WITH  FRUIT. 

Take  six  firm  Baldwins,  pare  and  core,  leaving  them  whole.  Cook 
in  a  syrup  made  of  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  two  cupfuls  of  water  flavored 
with  one-inch  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  and  a  few  shavings  from  the  yellow 
rind  of  a  lemon.  Turn  the  apples  twice;  when  done  lift  with  a  skimmer 
and  place  in  a  pretty  bowl,  the  larger  end  of  the  cavity  upward.  Cook 
whatever  cereal  is  desired,  fill  cavities  heaping  full  with  it  and  pour 
boiling  syrup  over  all.     Serve  either  hot  or  cold  with  cream.  T.  M. 

FRIED  BANANA5. 

For  the  finishing  touch  to  a  luncheon  nothing  is  more  delicious  than 
fried  bananas.  Select  ripe  fruit,  take  off  the  skins  and  cut  each  banana 
in  two  crosswise.  Salt  slightly,  dip  in  beaten  QQg\  then  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs.  Cook  till  a  delicate  brown  in  drippings  or  Ko-nut.  Serve  with 
sauce  made  of  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a 
cupful  of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  one-half  cupful  of  fruit. 
Seeded  raisins,  chopped  citron  and  lemon  juice  are  excellent  fruits  for 
the  purpose.  Mrs.  M.  C. 


•\ 


'Aum.  cm  A 


FOR  SUMMER,  light  desserts  take  the  preference. 
Custards  are  light  and  dainty  and  quite  appropriate 
after  a  hearty  meal.  Good  custard  can  be  made  in  the 
proportion  of  five  eggs  to  each  quart  of  rich  milk.  There 
are  three  ways  of  cooking  custard — baking,  boiling  or 
steaming.  A  baked  custard,  we  believe,  has  the  prefer- 
ence, and  to  insure  the  best  results,  the  temperature  of 
the  oven  must  be  exactly  right.  It  must  be  a  good  heat 
and  kept  regular.  If  the  custard  remains  too  long  in  the 
oven  it  will  whey  and  its  nicety  be  destroyed.  The  whites  and  yolks  of  the 
eggs  in  a  custard  should  be  beaten  separately.  The  sugar  should  be 
added  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  then  be  beaten  again.  Add  the  whites  next, 
then  the  flavoring,  and  lastly,  the  cold  milk. 

Pastry  and  puddings  seem  to  tire  the  appetite  in  summer  and  these 
light  and  palatable  desserts  are  then  enjoyed  to  the  full  extent.  Many  of 
the  desserts  can  be  made  of  canned  fruit  and  are  as  nice  as  though  con- 
cocted from  fresh  fruit. 

CUP  CUSTARD. 

Beat  four  eggs  light,  add  one-half  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  a  little 
salt,  one  quart  of  milk,  and  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg. 
Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Put  the  custard  in  five  cups,  place  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water,  and  then  put  the  pan  in  the  oven.  Bake  till  firm 
in  the  center;  no  longer,  or  they  will  become  watery.  When  done  stand 
away  to  get  cold.     Serve  them  in  the  cups.  Lillie. 

MICHIGAN  CUSTARD. 

Beat  five  eggs  thoroughly,  then  stir  into  them  one  cupful  of  maple 

sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one-eighth  of  a  nutmeg. 

Stir  this  all  into  two  quarts  of  lukewarm  milk.     Pour  in  baking  dish  and 

set  baking  dish  in  pan  of  hot  water.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  custard 

is  firm  in  the  center.  Mrs.  John  Irish. 

309 


310  CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC 

LEMON  CUSTARD. 

Grate  two  lemons,  add  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  of 
butter,  beaten  together  to  a  cream;  one  pint  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  and  four  eggs,  beaten  separately.     Add  the  whites  last. 

Mrs.  Mary  Walton. 
RICE  CUSTARD. 

Mix  one-half  pint  of  cream,  one  pint  of  milk,  an  ounce  of  sifted 
ground  rice,  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla;  sweeten  with  sugar  and  stir  all 
well  together  in  a  granite  boiler  till  it  nearly  boils;  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  three  eggs.  Stir  and  let  it  simmer  for  about  one  minute.  Serve 
it  in  cups  with  sifted  sugar  and  cream.  Mrs.  Emily  Jones. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  (PLAIN). 

Stew  very  gently  two  quarts  of  fine  apples,  till  tender,  with  one  and 
one-half  pints  of  water,  one  pound  of  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Strain 
the  liquid  and  stir  into  it,  very  gradually,  eight  well-beaten  eggs.  Put  the 
mixture  into  a  saucepan  and  stir  it  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  custard 
glasses  and  cover  with  sifted  sugar.  J.  I.  C. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  (FRIED). 

Pare,  core  and  slice  four  good-sized  apples.  Fry  them  in  butter  and 
when  they  are  brown  on  one  side,  turn  them  over  and  pour  over  them  a 
custard  made  of  four  eggs,  beaten,  a  cupful  of  cream  or  new  milk  and  a 
little  cinnamon.  Fry  to  a  light  brown.  Turn  carefully  and  serve  with 
sifted  sugar.     This  is  a  nice  hot  dessert.  Mrs.  Ellen  Sullivan. 

BAKED  CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD. 

For  five  small  custards  use  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one  ounce  of 
chocolate,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  piece  of  stick  cinna- 
mon about  one  inch  long.  Put  the  cinnamon  and  milk  in  the  double 
boiler,  place  on  the  fire,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Shave  the  chocolate 
and  put  it  in  a  small  pan  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  boiling  water.  Stir  this  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and 
glossy  and  then  stir  it  into  the  hot  milk,  after  which  take  the  liquid  mix- 
ture from  the  fire  and  cool.  Beat  together  with  a  spoon  the  eggs,  salt  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  sugar.  Add  the  cooled  milk  and  strain.  Pour 
the  mixture  into  the  cups  which  place  in  a  deep  pan.  Pour  into  the  pan 
enough   tepid  water  to  come  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  cups.     Bake  in  a 


CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  DESSERTS,   ETC.  311 

moderate  oven  until  firm  in  the  center.  It  will  take  about  one-half  hour. 
Test  by  running  a  knife  through  the  center.  If  the  custard  is  milky  it  is 
not  done.     Serve  very  cold.  Maria  Parloa. 

PLAIN  CUSTARD. 

Beat  to  a  froth  two  eggs  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  very  little 
salt  and  one  quart  of  rich,  sweet  milk;  flavor.  Bake  until  thick.  If  taken 
out  as  soon  as  thick  it  will  not  be  watery.  Mrs.  Mary  Tatman. 

MORRIS  CUSTARD. 

To  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  add  one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch,  one- 
half  cupful  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  extract  to 
flavor.  Mrs.  R.  Scales. 

BOSTON  CUP  CASTARD. 

Take  two  eggs,  one-half  coffee-cupful  of  new  milk  and  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  white  powdered  sugar.  Stir  the  sugar  into  the  milk,  add  the 
eggs  which  should  be  well  beaten;  pour  into  a  breakfast  cup  and  bake  till 
quite  set — about  one-quarter  of  an  hour.  Turn  out  on  a  plate  and  serve 
alone  or  with  a  little  stewed  fruit.  Mrs.  Jennie  Boyd. 

BROWN  CUSTARD. 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk,  but  do  not  boil;  beat  five  eggs  light  with 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  pour  upon  them  the  hot  milk.  Mix 
well,  adding  nutmeg  and  flavoring  extract  to  taste;  bake  in  a  well-but- 
tered dish.  Turn  out  when  cold;  strew  very  thickly  with  white  sugar. 
Set  the  plate  containing  the  custard  upon  the  upper  grating  of  a  hot  oven. 
The  sugar  will  melt  and  run  in  brown  streams  all  over  the  molded  pud- 
ding.    Slip  carefully  to  a  dish;  eat  cold.  Mrs.  Hamilton. 

CUSTARD  ROYALE. 

For  the  custard  season  two  whole  eggs  with  a  little  white  pepper  and 
salt  and  mix  them  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream;  color  one-half  with 
a  drop  or  two  of  carmine;  pour  the  two  custards  into  two  cups  and  stand 
these  on  a  piece  of  paper  in  a  stew-pan  three  parts  full  of  boiling  water, 
and  let  them  steam  till  firm;  then  turn  them  out  and  when  cold  slice  the 
custard  and  stamp  the  slices  out  in  rounds  the  size  of  a  dime;  rinse  in 
warm  water  and  use.  Be  careful  when  cooking  the  custard  that  only  the 
surrounding  water  boils,  for  should  the  custard  itself  boil  it  will  not  cook 
smoothly.  Mrs.  Frank  Baxter. 


312  ^  CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC. 

COFFEE  JELLY. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  water  enough  to  cover;  stir  into 
it  one  quart  of  strong  boiling  coffee,  sweetened,  and  when  dissolved,  strain 
through  a  flannel  cloth  or  jelly-bag  and  put  in  a  wet  fancy  mold.  When 
ready  to  serve  turn  out  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  heaped 
about  the  base.     Serve  with  macaroons.  O.  O.  B. 

COFFEE  HOLD. 

One  quart  of    liquid  coffee  and   two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch. 

Dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  a  small  portion  of  the  coffee;  heat  remainder 

to  boiling  point,  stir  in  the  corn-starch  and  cook  two  or  three  minutes. 

Pour  into  cold,  wet  molds  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Anna  Johnson. 
RHUBARB  DESSERT. 

Trim  off  the  crust  of  stale  bread,  cut  it  in  fingers  two-thirds  of  an 
inch  thick,  dip  each  piece  in  melted  butter  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  small  buttered  molds.  Fill  the  center  with  stewed  and  sweetened  rhu- 
barb and  cover  the  top  with  buttered  fingers.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  about  thirty  minutes  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

,  Mary  Peters. 

SOUFFLE  OF  OATMEAL. 

Mix  one  cupful  of  oatmeal  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  milk  and 
cream.  Cook  five  minutes.  Take  off  and  add  while  stirring  two  eggs, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  and  two  large  apples  pared  and 
thinly  sliced.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  it  swells  and  has  a  yellow  color.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve 
with  cream.  Emily  Brooks. 

FROZEN  CONFECTIONERY  DE5SERT. 

Scald  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  sweeten  with  one-fourth  of 
a  cupful  of  sugar  and  pour  slowly  into  three  beaten  eggs.  Return  to  the 
double  boiler  and  stir  until  it  thickens,  about  three  minutes;  do  not  let  it 
stay  too  long  or  it  will  curdle.  When  cool  add  one  pint  of  sweet  cream, 
one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one-quarter  of  a  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  and 
strained,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Pour  into  the  freezer  and  when 
half  frozen  open  and  put  in  one  teacupful  of  blanched  and  chopped 
almonds,  one  teacupful  of  candied  ginger  chopped,  and  one-half  teacupful 
of  candied  cherries.     Stir  in  and  finish  freezing.        Margaret  Hunter. 


CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,   DESSERTS,  ETC.  313 

FAIRY  PUDDING. 

Take  five  pieces  of  common  sponge  cake,  split  them,  spread  with  but- 
ter, put  them  together  again  and  lay  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding 
dish.  Make  a  custard  of  two  eggs,  three  cupfuls  of  milk  and  one-half 
cupful  of  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  any  flavor  3^ou  choose.  Pour  this 
over  the  cake  and  bake  one-half  hour.  Mrs.  Melville  Hewitt. 

PEACH  SURPRISE. 

Scald  three  cupfuls  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  stir  into  it  two 

tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  previously  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk.     Remove 

from  the  fire,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 

one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  beat  to  a  cream.     Drain  the  juice  from  a  can 

of  peaches,  put  them  in  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  the  above  mixture  and 

set  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes;  remove  and  spread  w^ith  the  stiffly  beaten 

whites  of  the  eggs,  sweetened  with   three  tablespoonfuls  of   powdered 

sugar,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown.     Serve  with  the  sweetened  peach 

juice.  Lulu  Fisher. 

VANITY  FAIR. 

Make  a  boiled  custard  with  one  quart  of  milk,  yolks  of  three  eggs  and 
three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  sugar;  line  a  large  glass  dish  with  slices  of 
sponge  cake  dipped  in  sweet  cream,  then  a  layer  of  blackberries  well 
sweetened,  then  another  layer  of  cake  and  berries  as  before.  When  the 
custard  is  cold  pour  it  over  the  whole;  then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  heap 
up  on  the  top  and  decorate  with  a  few  large  berries.  Emma  Folsom. 

PEACH  SNOWDRIFT. 

Soak  one-third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  cold 
water  till  soft,  then  pour  in  one-third  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  cupful 
of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Strain  sufficient  canned  or  freshly- 
stewed  peaches  through  a  sieve  to  make  a  cupful  and  add  it  to  the  other 
ingredients.  Stir  all  together  in  a  dish  set  in  cold  water  and  when  the 
mixture  begins  to  harden  beat  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 
Pour  into  individual  molds;  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Myrtle  Squire. 
SNOWBALL. 

A  dainty  dessert  is  made  by  taking  one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch.  After  boiling  three  minutes  remove  from 
the  fire  and  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  flavoring,  a 
little  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.     Mold,  Mrs.  F.  Payne. 


314  CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC. 

CHOCOLATE  FLAPPE. 

Into  a  double  boiler  pour  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  stirring  into  it  gradu- 
ally one  cupful  of  grated  sweet  chocolate.  Boil  five  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  while;  then  pour  into  a  pitcher  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and 
set  on  ice.  Fill  glasses  one-half  full  with  crushed  ice,  lay  on  top  of  the  ice 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  fill  the  glasses  nearly  full  with  the  chocolate. 
Have  ready  some  stiff  whipped  cream  slightly  sweetened.  Place  a  gener- 
ous spoonful  on  top  of  each  glass  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Louise  Alden. 
FROSTED  ORANGE. 

Crush  three  or  four  ounces  of  doubly-refined  sugar  to  powder.  Pour 
over  it  a  few  drops  of  strawberry  juice  and  move  the  sugar  about  with  the 
fingers  until  it  is  equally  colored,  then  put  the  dish  near  the  fire  until  it  is 
quite  dry.  Peel  one-half  dozen  ripe  oranges,  free  them  entirely  from  the 
thick  white  skin  and  thready  parts  but  be  very  careful  not  to  pierce  the 
fruit  itself.  Roll  the  oranges  in  the  colored  sugar,  arrange  them  neatly 
on  a  dish  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  myrtle.  Mrs.  L.  P.  Choate. 

PEACH  MERINQUE. 

Stew  the  peaches  in  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  until  tender;  remove 
and  boil  the  syrup  until  thick,  then  pour  over  the  peaches.  Make  a  corn- 
starch custard  of  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  corn-starch  (wet  in  cold  milk),  sugar  and  vanilla.  Make  a  meringue  of 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  and  spread  over  the  peaches.  Use  the 
custard  as  sauce.  Mrs.  Bertha  Starr. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  three  eggs  separately.  Add  to  the 
whites  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth.  Flavor  this. 
Take  one  quart  of  milk  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.'  Then  drop  in  enough 
of  the  beaten  whites  to  make  it  the  size  of  an  f^g^.  Be  careful  not  to  put 
too  much  in  at  a  time.  When  done  skim  them  out  and  lay  them  on  a 
platter.  Add  to  the  boiling  milk  the  beaten  yolks  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  corn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk  with  sugar  to  sweeten  it. 
Flavor  with  lemon,  orange  or  vanilla.  When  cold  put  it  in  a  dish  and 
slide  the  islands  on  top.  Mrs.  M.  C.  Mills. 

STRAWBERRY  FLOAT. 

Crush  one-half  pint  of  fresh  strawberries  with  one-half  cupful  of  white 
sugar.     Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  gradually,  a  gill 


CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC.  315 

of  sugar,  then  the  strained  juice  of  the  berries  and  beat  till  it  will  stand  in 
peaks.  Then  make  a  custard  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  one  pint  of 
milk  and  one-half  cupful  of  sugar.  Pour  custard  into  a  fancy  dish.  Let  it 
cool  and  put  a  layer  of  strawberries  on  top  of  this.  Then  arrange  the 
frosting  on  top  in  peaks.     It  is  a  very  pretty  dessert. 

Mrs.  Julia  Clarkson. 
CHOCOLATE  SOUFFLE. 

One-half  pint  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  chocolate,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  one  rounding  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
four  eggs.  Put  the  milk  in  the  double  boiler  and  place  on  the  fire.  Beat 
the  butter  to  a  soft  cream  and  beat  the  flour  into  it.  Gradually  pour  the 
hot  milk  on  this,  stirring  all  the  time.  Return  to  the  fire  and  cook  for  six 
minutes.  Put  the  shaved  chocolate,  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water 
in  a  small  pan  over  the  hot  fire,  and  stir  until  smooth  and  glossy.  Stir 
this  into  the  mixture  in  the  double  boiler.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten;  then  set  away  to  cool.  When  cool, 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  the  batter  into  a 
well-buttered  earthen  dish  that  will  hold  about  a  quart  and  cook  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  twenty-two  minutes.  Serve  immediately  with  vanilla 
cream  sauce.  Maria  Parloa. 

"EASTER  EQQS." 

Make  a  blanc  mange  of  milk  and  corn-starch;  sweeten  and  flavor  to 
taste.  Have  ready  one  dozen  egg  shells  which  have  been  carefully 
opened  at  the  small  end  and  contents  removed.  Fill  these  with  the  blanc 
mange  which  has  previously  been  divided  into  six  parts  and  each  part 
mixed  with  different  color  pastes  (vegetable  colorings,  chocolate,  etc.,  can 
be  used).  When  filled  stand  on  ice  until  perfectly  cold,  then  remove  the 
shells  carefully.  Send  to  the  table  in  glass  dish;  serve  with  whipped  or 
plain  cream.  These  "easter  eggs"  are  oftentimes  a  great  joy  to  the  little 
folks.  Millie  Dodge. 

CORN=STARCH  BLANC  MANGE. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  corn-starch,  one-half  cupful  of 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon.  Put  the  milk  with  the 
sugar  in  a  double  boiler  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Mix  the  corn-starch  with 
a  little  of  the  cold  milk  and  stir  it  in  the  boiling  milk.  Let  cook  a  minute 
or  two,  take  off  the  stove,  remove  the  lemon  peel  and  pour  in  molds  to 
cool.  Turn  from  the  molds  when  cold  and  serve  with  sweetened  cream. 
If  one  desires  the  blanc  mange  to  be  yellow  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 

H.  F.  L. 


316  CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC. 

BLANC  MANGE  WITH  CUPID  SAUCE. 

Make  a  blanc  mange  after  the  above  recipe,  pour  into  cups  and  let 
cool.  Just  before  serving,  turn  the  molds,  bottom-side  up  on  a  platter 
and  on  top  and  in  the  center  of  each  one  place  a  candy  cupid.  Over  all 
pour  a  sauce  made  of  sun-preserved  strawberries,  butter,  sugar  and  white 
of  an  Ggg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.     If  too  rich  add  water.  H.  A.  P. 

COMPOTE  OF  PINEAPPLE. 

Peel  a  pineapple  and  pick  all  the  specks  or  eyes  from  it;  cut  it  into 
slices  one-half  inch  thick,  keep  one  of  the  largest  of  these  whole  and 
divide  the  rest  into  halves.  Make  some  syrup  by  boiling  five  ounces  of 
lump  sugar  in  one-half  pint  of  water  for  ten  minutes,  put  in  the  slices  of 
fruit  and  let  them  boil  for  five  minutes.  Leave  them  in  the  syrup  until 
they  are  quite  cold;  drain  them;  put  the  whole  slice  in  the  center  of  a 
compote  dish  and  arrange  the  half  slices  in  a  circle  round  it;  pour  the 
syrup  over  and  serve.  Time  to  boil  the  syrup,  ten  minutes;  with  the 
fruit,  five  minutes.  Marie  Bliss. 

COFFEE  BAVARIAN  CREAH. 

Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  on  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  coffee 
(gound  fine),  strain  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one  cupful 
of  sugar.  Stir  this  custard  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens.  Dissolve  one- 
half  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water  and  when  dis- 
solved add  to  the  hot  custard.  When  this  mixture  is  entirely  cold  beat  it 
a  few  minutes  and  add  one-half  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Set  on  ice  to 
harden.  Mrs.  (Rev.)  Jos.  Odery. 

PEACH  SURPRISE— No.  2. 

Lay  pieces  of  sponge  cake  in  glass  dish,  take  the  juice  of  canned 
peaches  and  moisten  cake  well.  Then  lay  the  fruit  on  top  and  cover  with 
whipped  cream.  Nina  Bickle. 

DATE  MERINGUE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  dates,  stoned  and  cut  fine.  Bake  fifteen  min- 
utes in  moderate  oven.  Serve  in  custard  cups  with  custard  made  of  yolks 
of  eggs.  Mrs.  Clingan. 

ORANGE  OR  RASPBERRY  CHARLOTTE. 

Soak  one-half  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half  cupful  of  water  for  two 
hours.     Add  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  boiling  water  and  strain.     Then 


CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC.  317 

add  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  orange  juice  and  one  cupful  of 
lemon  juice.  Stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to  cool,  then  add  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  the  whole  until  stiff,  then  pdur 
it  over  sliced  oranges.  Set  away  to  cool.  Make  raspberry  the  same  way 
leaving  out  the  lemon  and  orange  juice,  substituting  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  instead.  Mrs.  Julia  Peters. 

MOONSHINE. 

Three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  gelatine,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  two 
lemons.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  the  rinds 
of  the  lemons  and  the  sugar;  boil  twenty  minutes.  Strain  while  hot. 
Add  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  when  nearly  cold  whisk  till  it  looks  like 
snow.  Pour  into  a  wet  mold  and  turn  out  next  day.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Miss  Spence. 

DESSERT  SURPASSING  ICE  CREAM. 

One  package  of  raspberry  bromangelon,  juice  of  one-half  of  an  orange 

and  one  pint  of  boiling  water.     Stir  together  and  let  stand  until  cold  but 

not  set.     Have  ready  two  large  bananas  sliced,  and  a  handful  of  nuts 

(hickory  nuts  or  pecans  preferred).     Put  these  into  the  cold  bromangelon 

and  stir  lightly;  no  sugar.     Pour  this  mixture  at  once  into  one-half  dozen 

molds  and  let  stand  until  it  sets.     When  ready  for  use  turn  bottom-side 

up  and  serve  with  cream.     Whipped  cream  on  top  is  an  addition. 

A  Modern  Cook. 
GINGER  CREAH. 

Soak  one-quarter  of  a  box  of  gelatine  for  one-half  hour  in  one-half 
cupful  of  milk;  stand  over  hot  water  until  dissolved,  add  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar;  sprinkle  over  them  a  pint  of  whipped  cream,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  syrup  from  your  jar  of  preserved  ginger,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  ginger  and  then  turn  in  the  gelatine  through  a  sieve; 
stir  until  the  cream  begins  to  thicken  and  stand  away  in  the  mold;  turn 
out  and  decorate  with  bits  of  preserved  ginger.         Mrs.  T.  M.  Zeigler. 

PEACH  CHARLOTTE. 

Drain  a  can  of  peaches;  take  a  teacupful  of  sugar  and  one  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  the  peach  juice  and  boil  them  until  the  syrup  is  clear  and 
rich.  Drop  the  peaches  in  and  let  them  cook  a  short  time,  not  long 
enough  to  break  them;  lay  them  in  a  glass  dish  and  pour  over  them  a 
charlotte  made  by  boiling  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  one-half  cupful  of 
sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  until  thick  and  smooth;  add 
the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.     Serve 


31S  CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,   DESSERTS,  ETC. 

cold  with  the  following  sauce:  Scald  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler, 
beat  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  pour  milk  on 
thfem,  return  to  the  fire  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  milk.  Stir  until  it  thickens;  delicious.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  A.  J. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  IN  MOLDS. 

Soak  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half  pint  of  cold  water  for  two  hours. 
Put  one  quart  of  milk  in  the  double  boiler  and  place  6n  the  fire.  Shave 
two  ounces  of  chocolate  and  put  it  in  a  small  pan  with  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Stir  over  a  hot  fire  until 
smooth  and  glossy  and  then  stir  into  the  hot  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  five 
eggs  with  one-half  cupful  of  sugar.  Add  to  the  gelatine  and  stir  the  mix- 
ture into  the  hot  milk.  Cook  three  minutes  longer,  stirring  all  the  while. 
On  taking  from  the  fire  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  and  one-half  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Strain  and  pour  into  moulds  that  have  been  rinsed  in 
cold  water.     Set  away  to  harden  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Maria  Parloa. 
CHOCOLATE  CHARLOTTE. 

Soak  one-quarter  of  a  package  of  gelatine  in  one-third  of  a  cupful  of 
cold  water  for  two  hours.  Whip  one  pint  of  cream  to  a  froth  and  put  it 
in  a  bowl  which  should  be  placed  in  a  pan  of  ice-water.  Put  one-half 
ounce  of  shaved  chocolate  in  a  small  pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water  and  stir  over  the  hot  fire  until 
smooth  and  glossy.  Add  to  this  a  gill  of  hot  milk  and  the  soaked  gelatine 
and  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Sprinkle  a  generous  half  cup- 
ful of  powdered  sugar  over  the  cream.  Now  add  the  chocolate  and  gela- 
tine mixture  and  stir  gently  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Line  a  quart 
charlotte  mold  with  lady  fingers  or  stale  pieces  of  sponge  cake  and  when 
the  cream  is  so  thick  that  it  will  just  pour,  turn  it  gently  into  the  mold. 
Place  the  charlotte  in  a  cold  place  for  an  hour  or  more,  and  at  serving 
time,  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Maria  Parloa. 
CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE. 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  place  on  the  fire. 
Sprinkle  into  it  one  level  tablespoonful  of  sea-moss  farina.  Cover,  and 
cook  until  the  mixture  looks  white,  stirring  frequently.  It  will  take 
twenty  minutes.  While  the  milk  and  farina  are  cooking  shave  two  ounces 
of  chocolate  and  put  it  into  a  small  pan  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water.     Stir  over  a  ho.t  fire  until  smooth 


CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,  DESSERTS,   ETC  319 

and  glossy,  then  stir  into  the  cooked  mixture.  Add  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Strain  and  turn  into  a  mold  that  has 
been  rinsed  in  cold  water.  Set  the  mold  in  a  cold  place  and  do  not  dis- 
turb it  until  the  blanc  mange  is  cold  and  firm.  Serve  with  sugar  and 
cream.  Maria  Parloa. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  RENVERSEE. 

Use  one  quart  of  milk,  seven  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  sugar,  one  ounce 
of  chocolate,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Put  the  milk  on  the  fire  in  the 
double  boiler.  Shave  the  chocolate  and  put  it  in  a  small  pan  with  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water.  Stir 
over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy;  then  stir  into  the  hot  milk  and 
take  the  milk  from  the  fire  to  cool.  Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
into  a  charlotte  mold  that  will  hold  a  little  more  than  one  quart  and 
place  on  the  stove.  When  the  sugar  melts  and  begins  to  smoke,  move 
the  mold  round  and  round,  to  coat  it  with  the  burnt  sugar,  then  place  on 
the  table.  Beat  together  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  the  eggs  and  the 
salt.  Add  the  cold  milk  and  chocolate  to  the  mixture  and  after  straining 
into  the  charlotte  mold  place  in  a  deep  pan  with  enough  tepid  water  to 
come  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  mold.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
firm  in  the  center.  Test  the  cream  by  running  a  knife  through  the  center. 
If  firm  and  smooth  it  is  done.  It  will  take  forty  or  forty-five  minutes  to 
cook.  When  icy-cold,  turn  on  a  flat  dish.  Serve  with  whipped  cream 
that  has  been  flavored  with  sugar  and  vanilla.  Maria  Parloa. 

CHOCOLATE  PROFITEROLES. 

Shave  into  a  cup  one  ounce  of  chocolate  and  put  the  cup  into  a  pan 
of  boiling  water.  Make  a  paste  the  same  as  for  chocolate  eclairs,  save 
instead  that  of  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  three  must  be  used.  As  soon  as 
the  paste  is  cooked  beat  in  the  melted  chocolate.  When  cold  add  the  eggs 
and  beat  until  light.  Drop  this  batter  on  lightly  buttered  pans  in  round 
cakes,  having  about  a  dessert-spoonful  in  each  cake.  Bake  for  about 
twenty  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold  with 
whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla.  Heap  the  cream  in  the  center  of  a 
flat  dish  and  arrange  the  profiteroles  around  it.  Maria  Parloa. 

IMPERIAL  CREAn. 

Boil  one  quart  of  cream  with  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon;  stir  till  nearly 
cold;  have  ready,  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  the  juice  of  three 
lemons,  strained,  with  as  much  sugar  as  will  sweeten  the  cream;  pour  the 
cream  into  the  dish,  from  a  pitcher,  holding  it  high  and  moving  it  about 


320  CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,    DESSERTS,  ETC 

so  as  to  mix  thoroughly  with   the  juice.     It  should  be   made  six   hours 
before  being  served.     Eat  it  with  sweetmeats,  apple  island,  or  apple  pie. 

Mrs.  O.  Maine. 
CHOCOLATE  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

For  one  large  mold  of  cream  use  one-half  of  a  package  of  gelatine, 

one  gill  of  milk,  two  quarts  of  whipped  cream,  one  gill  of  sugar  and  one 

ounce  of  chocolate.     Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  two  hours. 

Whip  and  drain  the  cream,  scrape  the  chocolate  and  put  the  milk  on  to 

boil.     Put  the  chocolate,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoon- 

ful  of  hot  water  in  a  small  saucepan  and  stir  on  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and 

glossy.     Stir  this  into  the  hot  milk.     Now  add  the  soaked  gelatine  and 

the  remainder  of  the  sugar.     Strain  this  mixture  into  a  basin  that  will 

hold  two  quarts  or  more.     Place  the  basin  in  a  pan  of  ice-water  and  stir 

until  cold,  when  it  will  begin  to  thicken.     Instantly  begin  to  stir  in  the 

whipped  cream,  adding  one-half  the  amount  at  first.     When  all  the  cream 

has  been  added  dip  the  mold  in  cold  water  and  turn  the  cream  into  it. 

Place  in  the  ice  chest  for  an  hour  or  more.     At  serving  time  dip  the 

mold  in  tepid  water.     See  that  the  cream  will  come  from  the  sides  of 

the  mold  and  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Maria  Parloa. 
CHOCOLATE  MOUSSE. 

Put  a  three-quart  mold  in  a  wooden  pail,  first  lining  the  bottom  with 

fine  ice  and  a  thin  layer  of  coarse  salt.      Pack  the  space  between  the 

mold  and  the  pail  solidly  with   fine  ice  and  coarse  salt,  using  two  quarts 

of  salt  and  ice  enough  to  fill  the  space.     Whip  one  quart  of  cream  and 

drain  it  in  a  sieve.     Whip  again  all  the  cream  that  drains  through.     Put 

in  a  small  pan  one  ounce  of  chocolate,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 

one  of  boiling  water  and  stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy.     Add 

three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.     Sprinkle  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  over 

the  whipped  cream.     Pour  the  chocolate  in  a  thin  stream,  into  the  cream, 

and  stir  gently  'until  well  mixed.     Wipe  out  the  chilled  .mold  and  turn 

the  cream  into  it.     Cover  and  then  place  a  little  ice  lightly  on  top.     Wet 

a  piece  of  carpet  in  water  and  cover  the  top  of  the  pail.     Set  away  for 

three  or  four  hours;    then  take  the    mold    from    the  ice,  dip  it  in  cold 

water,  wipe,  and  then  turn  the  mousse  out  on  a  flat  dish. 

Maria  Parloa. 
BAKED  APPLES  IN  MOLD. 

Dissolve  bromangelon  in  the  usual  way,  pour  over  a  dish  of  baked 
apples.  When  congealed  serve  with  cream.  (Bromangelon  can  be  pro- 
cured of  any  grocer.)  Amy. 


CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC.  321 

APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 

Rub  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  baking  pan  with  butter  and  line  with 
slices  of  wheat  bread  or  rolls;  peel  tart  apples,  cut  small  and  nearly  fill 
the  pan,  scattering  bits  of  butter  and  sugar  between  the  apples;  grate  a 
small  nutmeg  over  the  apples,  soak  as  many  slices  of  bread  or  rolls  as  will 
cover,  and  on  this  put  a  plate  with  a  weight  on  top  to  keep  the  bread  close 
upon  the  apples.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  The  proportion  of  apples,  but- 
ter and  sugar  to  be  used  is:  To  one-half  peck  of  tart  apples  one-half 
pound  of  sugar  and  one-quarter  pound  of  butter.         Mrs.  B.  Mahoney. 

MACAROON  WHIPPED  CREAM. 

(Delicious.) 

Grate  one  dozen  macaroons,  whip  one  pint  of  cream  to  stiff  froth, 
beat  in  gradually  the  grated  macaroons,  one-fourth  cupful  of  sugar. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  in  mold.  When  set,  turn  out  on  platter. 
Pour  whipped  cream  over  and  decorate  with  candied  cherries. 

Minnie  Jones. 
CORN=STARCH  AND  CHERRY  flOLD. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  two  eggs, 
beating  whites  and  yolks  separately  and  a  little  salt.  Dissolve  the  starch 
in  milk,  adding  yolks,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Fill  molds  or  cups,  if  you  have 
no  molds,  one-half  full.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  froth  and  beat  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  with  them.  Turn  the  corn-starch  out  of  the  cups  onto 
fancy  plates  or  dishes  and  pour  the  whites  over.  Decorate  with  candied 
cherries  or  jelly.  Candace  Gregory. 

ITALIAN  CREAM. 

Take  one  quart  of  cream,  sweeten  one  pint  of  milk  very  sweet  and 
flavored  highly  with  sherry  wine  and  vanilla.  Beat  it  with  an  ^gg  beater 
and  remove  the  froth,  as  you  make  it,  onto  a  dish  till  it  is  all  froth.  Dis- 
solve a  package  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  a  little  warm  water.  Set  the  dish 
containing  the  froth  into  a  tub  of  ice.  Pour  the  gelatine  into  it  and  stir 
constantly  till  it  thickens,  then  pour  into  molds  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

IsA  Robinson. 
CRUSHED  PEACHES. 

One  can  or  twelve  large  peaches,  two  coffee-cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  pint 
of  water  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Break  peaches  with  the  sugar, 
water,  etc.,  and  stir  all  together.  Freeze  all  into  a  form.  Beat  the  eggs 
to  a  froth  and  pour  over.  Ida  Montroy. 


322  CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC. 

HERINQUE. 

Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  confectioners'  sugar.  Put  the  eggs  in  a 
large,  shallow  dish;  add  salt  and  beat  with  a  fork  or  egg  whip  until  very 
stiff;  add  vanilla  and  beat  again,  then  the  sugar,  and  beat  until  it  will 
stand  alone.  Miss  Elizabeth  K.  Burr. 

SALTED  ALMONDS. 

For  a  company  of  six  persons  blanch  one  pound  of  almonds.  Put  in  a 
granite  baking  pan  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt.  Stir  till  well  mixed,  then  bake  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  often. 
They  must  be  bright  yellow-brown  when  done.  They  are  a  fine  appetizer 
and  should  be  served  with  the  meat  course  at  dinner. 

Mrs.  G.  R.  Olcott. 
NUT  AND  FRUIT  MOLD. 

Prepare  bromangelon  in  the  usual  way.  When  about  one-half  jelly- 
fied  or  set,  lay  into  it  some  bananas,  peaches,  or  any  fruit,  so  as  to  make  a 
nice  combination.  Serve  very  cold.  Nuts  may  be  used  if  desired.  Use 
sweet  or  sweetened  fruit.  Mrs.  A.  L.  Clute. 

STEWED  APPLES. 

Apples  cooked  in  the  following  way  are  very  pretty  on  a  lunch  table 
and  are  appreciated  as  a  relish.  Select  six  firm  round  greenings,  wipe  dry 
and  cut  in  halves  but  do  not  pare,  place  in  a  shallow  stew-pan,  skins  down, 
with  sufficient  water  to  cover  and  add  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Each  half 
should  cook  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  be  removed  from  the  others  so 
as  not  to  injure  its  shape.  Stew  slowly  until  the  pieces  are  tender;  remove 
to  a  dish,  pour  syrup  over  the  apples.    Eat  cold.     Mrs.  T.  B.  Lovewell. 

DESSERT  OF  CHESTNUTS. 

Take  large  chestnuts,  boil  them  in  water  till  you  can  pierce  them 
with  a  fork,  then  boil  them  in  sugar  and  water,  removing  all  scum.  Leave 
them  in  this  syrup  till  cold.  Then  skim  them  out  and  pile  them  on  a  dish. 
Return  the  syrup  to  the  fire,  boil  it  down  till  thick  and  pour  it  over  the 
nuts.     Whip  cream  and  serve  with  them,  cold.  Mrs.  Kate  Dagy. 

PEARS  A  LA  NATURAL. 

Choose  fair,  smooth  ones.  Put  them  into  cold  water  and  boil  them 
whole,  leaving  on  the  stems.  It  takes  about  one  hour  to  boil  them  ten- 
der.    Then  pour  sweet  cream  over  them,  in  each  dish,  as  you  serve. 

W.  T.  M. 


CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,   DESSERTS,   ETC.  323 

ORGEAT. 

Boil  two  quarts  of  milk  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon.  Take  out  the  cin- 
namon and  let  it  stand  till  cold;  stir  it  often  to  prevent  the  cream  from 
rising  to  the  top.  Blanch  four  ounces  of  the  best  sweet  almonds,  pound 
them  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  a  little  rose-water;  mix  them  well  with  the 
milk;  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar,  boil  it  a  few  minutes  and  strain  through  a 
fine  sieve.     Serve  it  in  glass  cups.  Mrs.  L.  T.  Chadwick. 

BANANAS  AND  CREAM. 

Slice  one  banana  into  each  individual  fruit  dish  and  cover  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Over  this  put  a  tablespoonful  of 
whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla  extract.  J.  E.  D. 

ORANGE  AMBROSIA. 

Take  as  many  oranges  as  desired,  cutting  off  the  tops;  remove  the 
juice  and  pulp  and  cut  points  around  the  edge  of  the  opening.  Mix  the 
juice  with  shredded  cocoanut  and  fill  in  the  orange  shells  again  putting  a 
layer  of  cocoanut  over  the  top.  This  makes  a  delightful  ambrosia  and  a 
pretty-looking  dessert  for  any  light  repast.  C.  W.  Hamilton. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Select  those  tliat  are  a  trifle  tart,  as  they  are  richer  in  juice  and  more 
tender.  Place  about  one  dozen  in  a  deep,  flat  tin  pan,  and  after  sprinkling 
a  cup  of  white  sugar  over  them  pour  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  over. 
When  they  are  about  one-half  done  turn  them.  When  taken  from  the 
oven  lift  each  one  separately,  with  a  fork,  into  a  glass  preserve  dish  and 
pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them.  Julia  Hoff. 

BUTTERED  APPLES. 

Pare  and  core  without  breaking  one  dozen  tart  apples.  Cut  pieces  of 
bread  in  rounds  large  enough  for  an  apple  to  stand  on  and  place  them  in 
a  well-buttered  dish  with  an  apple  on  each.  Fill  the  holes  with  butter  and 
sugar.  Bake  them  in  a  gentle  oven  until  tender,  then  put  them  lipon  a 
hot  dish  with  a  little  apricot  jam  on  the  top  of  each  and  cover  with  sifted 
sugar.     Nice  for  dessert  or  to  be  eaten  with  meat  course. 

Mrs.  Millie  Daniels. 

BROMANGELON  SNOW  PUDDING. 

Dissolve  bromangelon  in  the  usual  way.  When  half  congealed  whip 
up  thoroughly  with  an  &gg  beater,  then  add  the  white  of  one  qqq  thor- 


324  CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  DESSERTS,    ETC. 

oughly  beaten.  After  this,  whip  both  jelly  and  ^gg  together.  When  well 
beaten  pour  into  molds  and  allow  to  stand  until  perfectly  cold.  Serve 
with  cream.  B.  C.  A. 

APPLE  ISLAND. 

Stew  apples  to  make  two  quarts,  strain  through  a  sieve,  sweeten  with 
fine  white  sugar  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  rose.  Beat  the  whites  of  twelve 
eggs  to  a  hard  froth  and  stir  into  the  apple  slowly;  do  this  just  before  it 
is  to  be  served.  The  apples  should  be  stewed  with  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible, and  those  that  are  not  very  juicy  are  to  be  chosen.  Put  this  into  a 
glass  dish.  Serve  a  nice  boiled  custard,  made  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  or 
the  imperial  cream  to  eat  with  it.  Mrs.  Maine. 

APPLE  FOAM. 

Pare  and  core  six  tart  apples.  Steam  till  soft.  When  cold  add 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  lemon  juice.  Beat 
briskly  thirty  minutes.  Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks,  one-half  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  cupful  of  hot  milk.  Put  the  foam  in  a  dish  and  cover  with  the 
custard.  Can  run  it  in  the  oven  to  give  it  a  pale  brown  if  desired;  but  it  is 
not  necessary.  Mrs.  Alice  Yeager. 

APPLES  A  LA  EMPRESS. 

Cut  six  apples  into  quarters  removing  the  cores.  Take  a  deep  tin  pan 
and  butter  it,  place  the  pieces  of  apples  in  so  that  they  do  not  overlap,  pour 
one-half  of  a  tumbler  of  water  over  and  sift  plenty  of  sugar  over  them. 
It  takes  about  fifteen  minutes  to  cook.  Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  milk  and 
then  sweeten  it.  Pile  it  high  on  a  dish  and  fill  it  with  the  apples  placing 
them  in  spots  over  it.  The  juice  in  the  pan  must  have  a  wine-glassful  of 
sherry  and  a  piece  of  butter  added,  beating  the  butter  smooth  with  the 
wine  and  juice.  With  a  spoon  pour  this  mixture  over  each  piece  of  apple. 
Serve  hot.  Mrs.  Mae  Libby. 

SPANISH  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Peel,  remove  pulp  and  slice  a  dozen  oranges,  grate  a  cocoanut  and 
slice  a  pineapple.  Put  alternate  layers  of  each  until  the  dish  is  full 
Then  pour  over  them  a  cupful  of  ice  water.     Serve  with  small  cakes. 

Amy  Hubbell. 
PEARS  AS  A  DAINTY. 

Select  the  golden  pears,  peel  and  cut  them  in  halves,  leaving  on  the 
stems  but  scoop  out  the  cores.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan,  placing  them 
close  together,  with  the  core  downward.     Pour  over  sufficient  water,  a 


MEATS  — HOW  AND  WHAT  TO  SELECT. 

See  Chapter  entitled  "INIeats"  in  order  to  understand  whieh  pieces  are  most  nom'isliin": 
which  most  strengthening,  and  which  most  ilesirable. 


CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,   DESSERTS,   ETC.  327 

cupful  of  sugar,  a  few  whole  cloves  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  jvilce. 
Cover  the  stew-pan  closely.  Stew  gently  till  the  fruit  is  done.  Take  out 
the  fruit  carefully  and  arrange  it  on  a  glass  dish.  Boil  down  the  syrup 
until  quite  thick  then  pour  it  over  the  fruit.  Marie  Merrit. 

BANANA  SNOWBALL. 

Place  in  a  double  boiler  one  pint  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut; 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch;  stir  over  the  fire  until  thick;  then  add 
a  little  vanilla  flavoring.  When  custard  is  cold  beat  the  two  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth,  mix  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Cut  three  bananas  into 
slices  and  place  in  a  dish,  pour  over  the  custard  and  put  whites  of  eggs  on 
top  in  shape  of  snowballs.  Auditorium  Annex. 

COMPOTE  OF  PEARS. 

Select  golden  fruit,  not  too  ripe.  Wash  and  cut  into  halves  length- 
wise, carefully  removing  the  core.  Make  a  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  two 
cupfuls  of  sugar  to  one  cupful  of  water.  When  the  syrup  boils  put  in  the 
pieces  of  pears  with  a  dozen  whole  cloves  and  cook  them  till  tender.  Take 
out  and  arrange  in  a  pyramid  form,  the  stem  end  up,  on  a  pretty  glass 
dish.  Slice  a  peeled  lemon  very  thin  over  the  fruit  and  pour  the  syrup 
over  all  by  the  spoonful  when  a  little  cool.  Place  the  compote  where  it 
will  become  perfectly  cold  and  serve.  Mrs.  Maitland. 

A  NEW  DES5ERT. 

Grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon  and  squeeze  out  the  juice.  Add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  best  vanilla,  one  coffee-cupful  sifted  powdered  sugar,  two  whole 
eggs  and  the  yolks  of  four  others.  Beat  all  this  together  for  twenty  min- 
utes with  a  Dover  beater.  Have  one-half  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  one 
cupful  of  water.  Add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  four  yolks  and  at  last, 
drop  by  drop,  the  gelatine,  beating  constantly.  Drop  the  mixture  into 
a  glass  dish  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  with  the  sweetened  juice  of 
oranges.  Mattie  Rusk. 

SHREDDED  WHEAT  BISCUIT  AND  STRAWBERRY  MERINGUE. 

Pick  over  two  quarts  of  ripe,  juicy  strawberries,  put  into  a  bowl  and 
sugar  thoroughly,  an  hour  before  wanted.  Carefully  divide  three 
shredded  wheat  biscuits  into  halves,  place  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  and  heat. 
Then  butter  lightly  and  moisten  with  strawberry  juice;  place  in  baking 
dish,  add  the  strawberries  (stewed  or  fresh),  cover  and  return  to  the  oven 


328  CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC. 

for  five  minutes.  Have  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  place  on  top  and  place  in  open  oven  for 
two  minutes.  Serve  with  cream.  Shredded  wheat  biscuits  can  be  found 
at  any  grocery.  Mrs.  Clark. 

STRAWBERRY  DELIGHT. 

Whip  a  pint  of  cream  to  a  froth  and  color  a  very  pale  green  with 
spinach  or  pink  with  strawberry  or  cherry  juice.  Soak  a  fourth  of  a  box 
of  gelatine  in  one-quarter  of  a  cupful  of  cold  water  until  soft,  then  set  it  in 
hot  water  until  it  dissolves.  Stir  three  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  into  the 
whipped  cream.  Then  strain  in  the  gelatine  and  mix  thoroughly  but 
lightly.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Add  one-half  cupful  of  blanched  almonds  chopped  very  fine. 
Pour  into  small  glasses  and  serve  very  cold.  Delicious  and  not  very 
expensive.  Waldorf-Astoria. 

RICE  POPPLE. 

Wash  one  cupful  of  rice;  add  to  it  one  quart  of  milk,  one  cupful  of 
granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  and  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut;  mix  the  corn-starch  with  a  little  milk  to  dissolve  it  before  adding 
to  the  other  ingredients;  add  flavoring  (any  kind  desired)  and  bake  one 
and  one-half  hours,  stirring  occasionally  until  it  thickens;  then  let  it 
brown;  take  from  the  oven  and  allow  to  cool;  remove  the  brown  skin  and 
lay  over  the  top  a  few  preserved  or  canned  cherries;  beat  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  spread  this  over  the  fruit,  dropping  from  a 
spoon,  so  as  to  make  it  as  irregular  as  possible;  sprinkle  with  pulverized 
sugar  and  set  in  oven  to  brown;  serve  with  a  lemon  or  cream  sauce  or 
whipped  cream.  A  Southern  Cook. 

ISINQ-QLASS  NUT. 

Bruise  in  a  jar  two  pounds  of  red  and  one  pound  of  white  currants 
with  a  pint  of  red  raspberries;  place  the  jar  in  boiling  water  to  extract  the 
juice.  Boil  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  water,  two  ounces  of  gelatine  and 
a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  together,  allow  both  the  fruit  juice,  when  strained, 
and  the  sweetened  gelatine  to  cool,  then  mix  equal  quantities,  add  one- 
half  cupful  of  nuts,  chopped,  and  pour  into  shapes  and  place  on  ice. 
Serve  with  cream.  Mrs.  Burton. 

JELLY  TARTS. 

Take  six  eggs  and  break  separately;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
sugar,  butter  and  nice  jelly  (any  kind),  to  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  beat 
lightly.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  all  together.  Bake  in 
custard  pans.     You  will  find  these  delicious.  Lucia  Weatherly. 


CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC.  329 

PEACH  TRIFLE. 

Put  a  layer  of  sliced  and  sweetened  peaches  in  a  deep  glass  dish  and 
cover  with  a  thick  layer  of  sponge-cake  crumbs.  Pour  over  this  a  soft 
custard  yet  warm,  reserving  two  of  the  whites  of  eggs,  to  which  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  beat  for  meringue.     Serve  very  cold. 

Mrs.  Erskine  Smith. 
LEMON  TRIFLE. 

The  juice  of  two  lemons  and  grated  peel  of  one,  one  pint  of  cream 
well  sweetened  and  whipped  stiff.  Let  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  peel  stand 
together  a  couple  of  hours.  Strain  and  whip  gradually  into  the  frothed 
cream.     Serve  immediately  in  small  glasses  lined  with  lady  fingers. 

Boston  Cooking  School. 
FRUIT  TRIFLE. 

One  pint  of  cream  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
sugar  and  raspberry  jelly.     Arrange  the  same  as  above.       Delmonico's. 

GRAPE  TRIFLE. 

Pulp  through  a  sieve  two  pounds  of  ripe  Concord  grapes,  add  sugar  to 

taste  and  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  a  little  gelatine  soaked  and  added 

to  the  grape  pulp  is  an  improvement.     Put  into  glasses  and  cover  with 

whipped  cream,  flavored  with  vanilla.     Serve  very  cold. 

Mrs.  C.  M.  Binner. 
APPLE  TRIFLE. 

Peel,  core  and  quarter  some  astrakhan  apples  and  stew  them  with  one 
quince  using  only  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan. 
Add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  one-half  a  pound  to  one  pound  of  fruit; 
when  cooked,  press  the  pulp  through  a  sieve.  When  cold  pour  over  it  one 
pint  of  whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

Mrs.  Luella  Blue. 
PINEAPPLE  TRIFLE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  six  tablespoon- 
fuls of  powdered  sugar;  beat  for  one-half  hour,  then  beat  in  one-half  cup- 
ful of  pineapple.  Place  the  trifle  in  a  glass  dish,  cover  with  whipped 
cream  dotted  with  bits  of  strawberry  jelly.  Mrs.  I.  M.  Field. 

GOOSEBERRY  TRIFLE. 

One  quart  of  gooseberries,  sugar  to  taste,  one-half  cupful  of  gelatine, 
and  one  pint  of  whipped  cream.     Put  the  gooseberries  into  a  jar  with 


330  CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,    DESSERTS,   ETC 

two  cups  of  sug^ar,  and  boil  until  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Put  through  a  coarse 
colander  to  remove  skins.  Have  ready  the  soaked  gelatine.  Heat  and 
pour  in  a  trifle  dish;  when  cold,  cover  with  whipped  cream.  Garnish  with 
ripe  gooseberries.  Mrs.  A.  M.  Smart. 

TAPIOCA  AND  STRAWBERRIES. 

Soak  four  tablespoonfulsof  tapioca  in  a  teacupful  of  water  over  night. 
Place  over  the  fire  one  quart  of  milk;  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  the 
tapioca,  keep  stirring  until  it  thickens;  then  add  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a 
little  salt.  Place  to  cool,  then  stir  gently  into  the  mixture  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  stiff;  pour  quickly  into  a  mold.  Set  on  ice  until  cold. 
In  serving  turn  upside-down  on  a  platter  and  strew  over  it  some  large 
ripe  strawberries;  serve  with  strawberry  sauce.  Mrs.  L.  M.  Miller. 

ASTRAKHAN  SNOW. 

Core  and  quarter,  but  do  not  pare,  three  large  astrakhan  apples. 
Stew  until  tender  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
stiff,  add  one-half  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  again.  Add  the 
apple  and  beat  until  like  snow.  Pile  lightly  in  a  dish  and  serve  with  the 
following  sauce:  One  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
of  corn-starch  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.     Cook  in  double  boiler. 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Beebe. 
BANANA  DELIGHT. 

Cut  the  bananas  crosswise  one-half  inch  thick,  place  on  dish  and 
sprinkle  over  them  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  to  four  bananas, 
then  add  the  juice  of  two  oranges.  Prepare  two  hours  before  using  and 
set  in  a  cool  place.  Woman's  Exchange,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

BANANA  AND  LEHON  JUICE. 

Slice  four  ripe  bananas  in  a  glass  dish  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  large 
lemon  over  them.  Then  add  a  gill  of  ice  water  and  one-half  cupful  of 
sugar.     Let  stand  one-half  hour  in  cold  place.     Delicious  in  hot  weather. 

Englataire  Hotel,  Havana. 

MOLDED  PRUNES. 

One  pint  of  prunes,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  gelatine,  the 
rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  pint  of  water;  boil  the  prunes  in  the 
water  and  sugar  until  quite  soft,  then  remove  the  stones,  crack  the  kernels 
and  add  them  with  the  lemon  juice  and  rind  and  the  gelatine  dissolved 


CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,   DESSERTS,   ETC.  331 

in  a  little  water;  stir  all  until  thoroughly  mixed;  pour  into  a  mold,  set  in 
a  cool  place  till  ready  to  serve,  when  turn  bottom  side  up  and  pour  over 
whipped  cream.     Decorate  with  a  few  stuffed  prunes. 

Julia  Pullman. 

RASPBERRY,  CURRANT,  GRAPE  OR  PEACH  FLUMMERY. 

Soak  one-half  package  of  gelatine  in  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water 
until  soft;  heat  to  boiling  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  red  raspberry  juice; 
sweeten  to  taste  and  turn  over  the  soaked  gelatine.  Stir  until  perfectly 
dissolved,  then  strain  and  set  the  dish  on  ice  to  cool.  When  cold  beat 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  into  the  thickening 
gelatine.  Beat  until  the  whole  is  a  solid  foam  stiff  enough  to  retain  its 
shape.  Turn  into  small  ifiolds  previously  wet  with  cold  water,  then  pile 
roughly  in  a  dish.  Strew  over  some  fresh  raspberries  and  serve  wqth 
whipped  cream.  Mrs.  C.  Astor. 

APPLE  FOAM. 

Pare  and  quarter  enough  ripe,  juicy  apples  to  make  a  pint,  put  on  to 
stew  in  one  pint  of  water,  a  teacupful  of  sugar;  let  cook  until  tender  with- 
out breaking.  Mix  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  in  a  little  cold 
water  and  add  to  apples,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  five  minutes,  then 
turn  into  a  mold  and  set  away  to  cool.     Eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

LuELLA  Wilson. 
ORANGE  HONEY. 

Stir  two  eggs  into  one-half  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  add  juice  of 
two  oranges  and  grated  rind  of  one  and  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Cook 
over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  constantly,  till  thick  and  clear  like  honey;  then 
pour  into  custard  cups  which  have  had  cold  water  in  them,  and  set  in  the 
ice-box  to  cool.     Serve  with  cream  custard.  Mrs.  Minnie  Jewel. 

IDEAL  DESSERT. 

One  quart  of  milk,  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one 
heaping  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  one  scant  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  add  a 
little  vanilla  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  beat  till  very  light,  bake  in  gem 
pans,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  them  and  serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 

Mrs.  Sarah  Yates. 
RICE  MOLD  (TEXAS  STYLE.) 

Cover  one-fourth  of  a  box  of  gelatine  with  one-quarter  of  a  cupful  of 
cold  water  and  let  soak  one-half  hour.  Boil  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  in 
a  kettle  of  rapidly-boiling  water  for  thirty  minutes,  drain  until  the  rice  is 


332  CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,   DESSERTS,   ETC. 

free  from  moisture.  Whip  one  pint  of  cream,  put  it  in  a  basin,  platy^ 
basin  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice;  add  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  powdered 
sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Add  the  rice.  Stand  the  gelatine 
over  the  tea-kettle  until  dissolved;  strain  it  slowly  into  the  cream  and 
stir  constantly,  but  carefully,  until  the  whole  is  partly  congealed.  Turn 
into  previously  wet  molds  and  stand  aside  to  harden.  Take  one-half 
tumblerful  of  crab-apple  jelly,  add  to  it  a  cupful  of  water  and  stir  over  the 
fire  until  thoroughly  melted.  When  pudding  is  ready  to  serve  turn  from 
the  mold,  pour  over  this  sauce  and  serve.  Mrs.  A.  Partridge. 

PRUNE  WHIP. 

Wash  and  soak  over  night  one-half  pound  of  prunes  in  water  to  cover; 
in  morning  cook  in  same  water  until  tender;  remove  the  stones;  add  one- 
half  cupful  of  sugar;  cook  until  of  the  consistency  of  marmalade;  then  put 
through  a  sieve;  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  until  stiff;  add  prune  mix- 
ture and  beat  until  well  mixed;  pile  lightly  on  a  dish  and  bake  a  delicate 
brown.  Miss  T.  P.  M. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  WITH  PINEAPPLE. 

Peel  and  cut  a  pineapple  in  slices,  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  cupful  of 
white  sugar  and  one-half  teacupful  of  water;  stew  until  it  is  quite  tender, 
then  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  place  it  upon  ice.  When  cold  add  a  pint  of 
cream  well  whipped,  a  few  pieces  of  nuts,  and  pour  it  into  glasses  lined 
with  lady's-fingers  standing  lengthwise.    Put  in  center  of  each  a  little  jelly. 

Mrs.  Minnie  Hearter. 
FRUIT  SALAD. 

Put  in  the  center  of  a  dish  a  pineapple  pared,  cored  and  sliced 
thin  yet  retaining  as  near  as  possible  its  original  shape.  Peel,  quarter 
and  remove  the  seeds  from  three  oranges;  arrange  them  around  the  pine- 
apple. Take  three  bananas,  peel  and  cut  into  slices  crosswise;  arrange 
these  wreath-fashion  around  the  oranges  and  over  all  this  strew  a  few 
fresh  ripe  strawberries.  Pour  one  pint  of  pulverized  sugar  over  the  fruit 
and  serve.  Anna  Vallens. 

FRUIT  SALAD— No.  2. 

Cut  small  cantaloupes  in  halves  and  if  overripe  scoop  out  and  throw 
away.  P  ill  with  cold  seeded  grapes,  peaches,  bananas  and  shredded  pine- 
apple. Use  orange  juice  for  flavoring.  Sprinkle  over  pulverized  sugar.  If 
sweet,  do  not  remove  flesh  of  melons.     Set  on  ice  twenty  minutes. 

E.  J.  T. 


CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,   DESSERTS,   ETC.  333 

FRUIT  SALAD— No.  3. 

Four  bananas,  two  oranges  sliced  fine,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar.  Dis- 
solve one-half  box  of  gelatine  (according  to  directions  on  box),  pour  over 
fruit  and  set  away  to  harden.  Cut  in  squares,  serve  with  whipped  cream 
on  each  square.     Any  kind  of  fruit  may  be  used.  Mrs.  W.  Yokes. 

FRUIT  BLANC  MANGE. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk  and  soak  one-half  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  it 
for  one  hour;  place  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  often.  Beat  the  yolk  of  one  ^gg 
very  light  with  a  cupful  of  sugar,  stir  into  the  scalding  milk  and  heat  until 
it  begins  to  thicken  (it  should  not  boil  or  it  will  curdle);  remove  from  the 
fire  and  when  nearly  cold  stir  in  some  nice  stewed  and  sweetened  fruit 
without  the  juice  (cherries,  raspberries  and  strawberries  being  the  best); 
then  pour  into  molds  wet  in  cold  water  and  set  away  to  cool.  Serve  with 
cream  and  sugar.  Mrs.  R.  M.  Nesbitt. 

MACAROONS. 

For  cocoanut,  almond,  chocolate  and  other  macaroons  and  kisses  look  under  the  head  of 
Cakes,  Cookies,  etc.  They  are  a  delicious  accompaniment  to  ices,  creams  and  all  soft  and  cold 
desserts. 

FRUIT  SHORTCAKES. 

For  the  recipes  of  peach,  strawberry,  and  other  fruit  [shortcakes  see  chapter^Biscuits,  Rolls 
and  Muffins.     They  all  make  a  very  delicious  dessert  when  served  with  sweet  cream. 

ECLAIRS. 

For  the  recipe  of  eclairs  look  under  the  head  of  Cakes,  Cookies,  Etc. 

HEN'S    NEST. 

(A  fancy  dish.) 

Take  one-half  dozen  eggs,  make  a  hole  at  one  end  and  empty  the 
shells,  fill  them  with  blanc  mange;  when  stiff  and  cold  take  off  the  shells; 
pare  lemon  rind  very  thin,  boil  in  water  till  tender,  then  cut  in  thin  strips 
to  resemble  straw  and  preserve  in  sugar;  fill  a  deep  dish  half  full  of  jelly 
or  cold  custard,  put  the  eggs  in  and  lay  the  straws,  nest-like,  around  them. 

Sauce  for  the  Above  Pudding. — One  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  yolk  of  one  egg;  beat  together  and  stir  in  one  cupful  of  boiling 
water.     Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  when  ready  for  use,  flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Walter  Burough. 

HEALTH   DESSERT. 

A  nice  dessert  is  made  by  filling  cups  loosely  with  strawberries  and 
pouring  over  them  graham  mush  or,  if  preferred,  thicken  sweet  boiling 


334  CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC. 

milk  to  a  consistency  which  is  thin  enough  to  fill  the  interstices  between 
the  berries,  and  yet  thick  enough  to  be  firm  when  cool.  Turn  out  and 
serve  up  with  cream  and  sugar.  Mrs.  Thos.  Gough, 

FLOAT. 

Heat  to  the  boiling  point  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  a  tiny  lump  of  but- 
ter and  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  (Do  not  let  boil  or  it  will 
curdle.)  As  soon  as  it  thickens  pour  out  and  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of 
four  eggs.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  This  is  fine  if  carefully  made. 
Serve  when  cold.  Mrs.  Tessie  James. 

SPANISH    CREAM. 

Boil  one-half  ounce  of  gelatine  in  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk  till 
dissolved.  When  nearly  cold  strain  it  through  muslin  and  mix  with  it  a 
custard  made  of  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk,  one-half  pint  of  cream,  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  any  flavoring,  and  one  ounce  of  white 
sugar.  Stir  it  until  nearly  cold,  pour  it  into  a  damp  mold  and  put  it  in  a 
cool  place  to  set.  When  wanted  dip  it  into  hot  water  for  one-half  minute, 
shake  it  well  to  loosen  the  edges,  place  the  dish  upon  the  mold  and  turn 
it  out  quickly.     Care  must  be  taken  that  the  custard  does  not  curdle. 

Mrs.  V.  A.  Wild. 

BLUEBERRIES,  PEACHES  AND  STRAWBERRIES  IN  SHREDDED  WHEAT 

BISCUIT  BASKETS. 

One  quart  of  strawberries,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half 
cupful  of  ice-water,  or  chopped  ice,  six  shredded  wheat  biscuits,  one-half 
pint  of  thin  cream,  powdered  sugar.  Wash  and  pick  over  the  berries, 
crush  two-thirds  of  them,  add  the  sugar  and  ice  water,  set  in  a  cool  place 
one  hour.  Prepare  the  biscuit  by  cutting  with  a  sharp-pointed  knife,  an 
oblong  cavity  in  the  top  of  the  biscuit,  about  one-fourth  of  an  inch  from 
sides  and  ends;  carefully  remove  the  top  and  all  inside  shreds,  making  a 
basket.  Fill  with  the  crushed  berries,  letting  the  syrup  saturate  the 
biscuit.  Put  whole  berries,  of  a  uniform  size,  on  top;  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  serve  with  cream.  Raspberries,  blackberries  or 
bananas,  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way.  Blueberries  may  be  used 
without  crushing.  Pineapple,  peaches,  or  cantaloupe  may  also  be  used, 
paring  and  cutting  fine  with  silver  knife,  using  same  proportions  of  sugar 
and  water.  Shredded  wheat  biscuits  can  be  bought  of  any  grocer.  They 
are  made  of  entire-wheat  and  especially  good  for  a  weak  stomach. 

A.  A.  C. 


CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,   DESSERTS,  ETC  6ob 

STRAWBERRY    SOUFFLE 

Beat  the  3'olks  of  two  eggs  in  one-half  cupful  of  ripe  crushed  straw- 
berries, juice  of  two  oranges  and  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  together,  then 
cook  for  two  minutes;  add  one-quarter  of  a  package  of  gelatine  soaked 
till  soft,  the  whipped  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  when  cold  one  cupful  of 
whipped  cream;  turn  into  a  souffle  dish  surrounded  with  a  paper  band; 
cover  with  strawberry-  jelh>'  and  place  on  ice  till  needed.  fSee  Colored 
Picture.)  Mrs.  J.  H.  Tibbitts. 

LEHON  PATTIES. 

Grate  a  loaf  of  dr}-  bread  in  a  basin,  and  pour  over  it  one  cupful  of 
boiling  milk.  When  cold  mix  in  it  the  grated  peel  of  two  lemons  and 
three  well-beaten  eggs.  Add  to  this  one-fourth  pound  of  butter  beaten 
to  a  cream  with  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar.  Butter  some 
small  cups,  fill  them  with  the  mixture  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Turn  the  patties  on  a  dish,  pour  over  some  sauce  and 
ser^-e.  Mrs.  Mary  Baker  Fish. 

ORANGE  VOL=AU-VENT. 

Roll  into  a  thin  sheet  some  rich  puff  paste.  Cut  out  an  oval  piece  and 
three  rims  to  fit  (see  colored  illustration).  When  baked  spread  the  edges 
lightly  with  orange  preserve  or  meringue,  and  press  the  rims  one  above 
the  other  on  the  oval  piece.  Decorate  with  meringue,  return  to  a  moder- 
ately heated  oven  for  about  five  minutes,  then  fill  the  center  with  fresh 
sliced  oranges  well  sugared.  Mrs.  Marion  Lovewell. 

GERriAN  PANCAKES  FOR  DESSERT 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  whip  three  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  mix 
them  with  a  teacupful  of  cream  and  finely-grated  stale  bread-crumbs  and 
a  breakfast-cupful  of  flour,  pour  in  the  saucepan,  add  a  pinch  of  sugar  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  thick.  Melt  some  butter  in  a  fr}-ing-pan  and  fry 
the  preparation  like  pancakes.  Put  them  on  a  hot  dish,  sift  powdered 
sugar  and  juice  of  one  lemon  over  and  ser^-e.  Amy  Bitner. 

SOCIETY  DESSERT. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine  soaked  and  dissolved,  to  which  add  a  wine- 
glassful  of  sherr}-  wine,  one-half  pint  of  cream  whipped  stiff,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  boiled  rice,  one-half  pound  of  chopped  figs,  one-quarter  cupful 
of  powdered  sugar;  mix  all  together  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken; 
pour  into  molds.     Serve  cold.  Mrs.  Eastman. 


336  CUSTARDS,   CREAMS    DESSERTS,   RTC 

ORANGE  MERINGUE. 

Slice  six  peeled  oranges  in  a  dish  and  pour  over  one  pint  of  milk 

boiled  with  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch, 

allowed  to  cool.     Make  meringue  of  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff, 

brown  in  the  oven.  Fannie  Gallup. 

CREAM  nOLDED  CUSTARD. 

One  cupful  of  brown  sugar;  put  over  fire,  sti^  constantly  until  melted 

and  boiling;  have  ready  long  bread  pan;    line  inside  with  melted  butter. 

Make  custard  of  quart  of  milk  and  five  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 

a  pinch  of  salt;    pour  into  the  pan  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  until  it 

is  firm;    set  away  to  get  very  cold;    turn  out  on  a  platter  and  serve;  there 

will  be  a  rich^brown  sauce  surround.     This  is  a  foreign  recipe  and  fine. 

Mrs.  T.  C.  Brubaker. 
PINEAPPLE  DESSERT. 

Make  thin  sandwiches  of  home-made  white  bread  and  grated  pine- 
apple; pour  the  juice  over  them  and  let  stand  until  well  soaked;  then 
cover  with  sweetened  whipped  cream  and  serve  very  cold. 

Judith  Foster. 
SEA-MOSS  BLANC-MANGE. 

Procure  sea  moss  at  druggist's.  Wash  a  handful  in  several  waters  to 
remove  grit.  Throw  it  in  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  stir  until  the  sea-moss 
has  been  absorbed  to  make  it  thick,  which  can  be  determined  by  trying  a 
little  in  a  cold  dish.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  any  desired  flavoring. 
Strain  into  molds  and  serve  cold  with  sugar  and  cream.  W.  E.  F. 

HIMMEL  PUTTER. 

Grate  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  rye  bread,  add  three-quarters  of  a 
cupful  of  almonds,  two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  whites  of  six  eggs,  one- 
half  cupful  of  walnuts,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Bake  in 
layers.      Break  into  small   pieces  and  serve  with   cream,   flavored   with 

lemon  and  sweetened.  Mrs.  M.  Faust. 

CREAM  PUFFS  (GOOD). 

One  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  cupful  of  flour  and  one-half  cupful  of 
butter.  Mix  together,  first  putting  the  butter  in  the  water,  then  stirring 
in  the  flour  and  baking-powder.  Let  cool,  stir  in  three  eggs,  drop  into 
buttered  pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. 

Filling. — One  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  ^%% 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch.  Cook  until  like  thick  cream  and 
flavor.  Take  a  knife,  raise  top  of  puff,  and  fill  in  with  filling.  Dust  top 
with  pulverized  sugar.  Mrs.  Chas.  Horner. 


CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC.  337 

CREAH  PUFFS— No.  2. 

One  cupful  of  hot  water  and  one-half  cupful  of  butter.  Boil  the  water 
and  butter  together  and  stir  in  a  cupful  of  dry  flour  while  boiling.  When 
cool,  add  three  eggs  not  beaten.  Mix  well  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on 
buttered  tins.     Bake  twenty-five  minutes. 

Cream. — One  cupful  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg,  and 
three  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Beat  the  eggs,  sugar  and  flour  together 
and  stir  in  the  milk  when  boiling.  With  a  knife  lift  off  the  top  of  the 
puffs  and  fill.  Rose  C.  Jenks. 

COnpdTE  OF  CHERRIES. 

Pick  large  white  cherries,  wipe  them,  and  leave  on  them  about  one 
inch  of  stalk,  making  all  uniform.  Put  one-half  pound  of  sugar  into  a 
saucepan  with  one  cupful  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then 
put  into  it  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  the  cherries  and  simmer  three 
minutes.     Dish  them  with  the  stalks  uppermost.  E.  F.  T. 

CURRANT  SNOW 

Wash  one  cupful  of  tapioca,  then  pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  until  the  tapioca  is  transparent;  add  a  pinch  of  salt;  stir 
often  while  cooking;  wash  one  pint  of  ripe  currants  and  put  them  in  a 
glass  dish,  sprinkle  over  them  one  cupful  of  white  sugar,  turn  the  hot 
tapioca  very  slowly  over  them  and  after  it  has  cooled  a  little  set  on  the 
ice  to  get  very  cold.  Serve  with  cream.  A  delicious  and  cool  summer 
dessert.  Marion. 

GELATINE  SNOW. 

Use  one-half  box  of  Cox's  gelatine.  Pour  one  pint  of  cold  water  over 
it  and  set  on  back  of  stove  till  dissolved.  Then  add  one  coffee-cupful  of 
sugar.  Pour  gelatine  over  the  sugar,  then  pour  a  pint  of  warm  water  over 
all,  beating  well  together.  Add  juice  of  two  lemons  strained  into  the 
gelatine.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs.  When  nearly  cold  pour  the  eggs 
on  top.     Place  the  yolks  around  the  dish  so  as  to  give  a  pretty  effect. 

Ada  Hermann. 

DELICIOUS  BLUEBERRY  DESSERT. 

Stew  blueberries  or  any  other  berries  and  sweeten  to  taste  and  pour 
hot  over  thin  slices  of  bakers'  bread,  buttered  and  with  crust  cut  off,  making 
alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  bread,  leaving  a  thick  layer  of  fruit  for  the 
last.  Put  a  plate  on  top,  and  when  cool  set  on  ice.  Serve  with  sweetened 
cream.     Inexpensive.  Luella. 


338  CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  DESSERTS,  ETC. 

RHUBARB  SAUCE. 

A  nice  way  to  cook  rhubarb  (or  pie-plant,  as  it  is  generally  called)  is 
to  wash  it  and  peel  it,  cutting  into  pieces  one  inch  long.  Allow  one  pound 
of  granulated  sugar  to  each  pound  of  the  fruit.  Use  a  porcelain-lined  or  a 
granite  stew-pan.  Add  one-half  cupful  of  water,  cover  the  rhubard  with 
the  sugar  and  set  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  and  let  it  slowly  simmer. 
When  done  do  not  stir  but  turn  it  carefully  out  to  cool.  The  fruit  does 
not  have  that  pasty  look  so  often  seen  and  yet  it  is  perfectly  done. 

H.  F.  L. 

DATE  CREAfl. 

Remove  the  stones  from  as  many  dates  as  desired  for  a  dessert,  put 
in  a  pretty  glass  dish  and  pour  over  a  generous  amount  of  whipped  cream. 
A  few  macaroons  crumbled  in  with  the  dates  improves  the  flavor.  Set  in 
a  cold  place  until  ready  to  serve.  Mrs.  Iole  Buell. 

QUINCE  SOUFFLE. 

Stew  a  few  quinces  until  soft,  slightly  sweeten  and  pass  through  a 
colander.  Put  into  a  glass  dish  and  cover  with  a  custard  made  of  one  pint 
of  milk,  two  yolks  of  eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Whip 
whites  of  two  eggs  light  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  heap  on  top. 

Miss  Stahl. 

GOLDEN  CREAM. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water.  Strain  and 
add  to  it  the  juice  of  three  oranges,  grated  rind  of  one,  juice  of  one 
lemon,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  and  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Stir 
over  a  gentle  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  pour  into  a  mold.  When 
ready  to  serve  pour  over  the  following  sauce:  Beat  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  very  stiff;  add  a  small  cupful  of  preserve.  Beat  until  the  preserve 
is  in  tiny  shreds.     Excellent.  Miss  Boland. 


Ice-Greams,  Ices  and  SHerfieis 

ICES  are  not,  we  regret  to  say,  healthful  when  taken  at  the  close  of  a 
meal,  and  yet  no  dinner  is  looked  upon  as  complete  without  them  in 
some  form  or  other.  But  when  used  at  any  other  time  they  are  nourish- 
ing and  refreshing. 

Frozen  dishes  will  always,  however,  be  popular  in  spite  of  the  one 
unpleasant  fact,  and  many  of  them  are  certainly  delicious.  Water  ice, 
sherbets,  punches  and  ice-creams  all  come  under  the  head  of  frozen 
dishes.  When  a  family  prefers  to  make  its  own  ice-cream  it  is  essential 
that  a  good  freezer  be  purchased.  There  are  several  such  on  the  market, 
and  the  labor  of  manufacturing  ices  and  kindred  dishes  is  much  lessened 
by  the  use  of  one.  It  is  best  to  scald  the  cream,  and  the  sugar  should  be 
dissolved  in  it  while  hot.  Fruit  juices  should  never  be  cooked.  They 
should  be  beaten  into  the  cream  after  it  is  frozen,  to  attain  the  best 
results.     For  a  four-quart  freezer  allow  ten  pounds  of  ice  and  two  quarts 

of  rock  salt. 

PLAIN  VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 

One  quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three-fourths  of  a  pint  of 
sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch.  Scald  but  do  not  boil.  Then 
put  the  whites  of  three  eggs  into  one  and  one-half  pints  of  cream;  whip 
it.  Mix  the  milk  and  cream,  flavor  and  freeze.  Two  teaspoonfuls  of 
vanilla  are  generally  sufficient.  Ione  Anderson. 

ICE-CREAM  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Stir  one  quart  of  good  cream,  one-half  pound  of  sugar  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  the  extract  of  vanilla,  until  dissolved.  Strain  through  a  fine 
muslin  and  freeze,  stirring  rapidly.  Instead  of  vanilla,  any  other  flavor- 
ing desired  may  be  used.  Popular  Caterer. 

ICE-CREAM  WITHOUT  COOKING. 

When  the  ordinary  facilities  for  making  ice-cream  are  not  at  hand,  it 
can  be  made  by  taking  three  pints  of  milk,  four  eggs  well  beaten,  three- 
fourths  of  pound  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch;  mix  in  a 
three-quart  tin  pail;  boil  in  a  kettle  of  water  till  quite  thick;  add  one  pint 

339 


340  ICE-CREAMS.    ICES  AND  SHERBETS. 

of  sweet  cream  and  flavor  to  taste.  Freeze  in  a  common  water  pail  or 
any  vessel  of  suitable  size,  with  equal  parts  of  ice,  chopped  fine,  and  coarse 
salt.     Rotate  the  pail  and  stir  frequently.  Mrs.  Curtis. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE=CREAM. 

One  pint  of  cream,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  quart  of  strawberries,  one 
small  pint  of  sugar.  Mash  the  strawberries  and  sugar  together  and  let 
them  stand  thirty  minutes,  then  add  the  cream,  rub  through  a  strainer 
into  the  freezer  and  freeze.  '  Mrs.  J.  C.  Hunt. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE-CREAM. 

For  about  two  and  one-half  quarts  of  cream  use  one  and  one-half 
pints  of  milk,  one  quart  of  thin  cream,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of 
chocolate,  two  eggs  and  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Put  the 
milk  on  to  boil  in  the  double  boiler.  Put  the  flour  and  one  cupful  of  the 
sugar  in  a  bowl,  add  the  eggs  and  beat  the  mixture  until  light.  Stir  this 
into  the  boiling  milk  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring  often.  Scrape 
the  chocolate  and  put  it  in  a  small  saucepan.  Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  (which  should  be  taken  from  the  second  cupful)  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  hot  water.  Stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy.  Add  this 
to  the  cooking  mixture.  When  the  preparation  has  cooked  for  twenty 
minutes,  take  it  from  the  fire  and  add  the  remainder  of  the  sugar  and  the 
cream,  which  should  be  gradually  beaten  into  the  hot  mixture.  Set  away 
to  cool  and  when  cold  freeze.  Maria  Parloa. 

COFFEE  ICE=CREAM. 

One  gallon  of  cream,  yolks  of  thirty-five  eggs,  two  pounds  ten  ounces 
of  sugar,  two  quarts  of  very  strong  black  coffee  (made  up).  Stir  well  with 
an  ^gQ  beater  and  when  beginning  to  thicken  without  boiling  strain  the 
mixture;  allow  it  to  become  cold  and  freeze.  R.  W.  S. 

PISTACHIO  ICE=CREAM. 

Blanch  and  peel  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  pistachios  and  pound  them 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  few  drops  of  rose-water.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs  and  pour  over  them  one  and  one-half  pints  of  boiling  milk;  add  four 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar  and  stir  the  custard  over  the  fire  until  it  begins 
to  thicken;  then  pour  it  out  and  when  cool  stir  into  it  the  pounded  pis- 
tachios and  a  teaspoonful  of  spinach  coloring.  Pass  the  whole  through  a 
sieve;  mold  and  freeze.  If  preferred,  the  pistachio  paste  can  be  mixed 
with  cream  instead  of  custard.  Ella  Brewster. 


ICE-CREAMS,  ICES  AND  SHERBETS.  341 

CHERRY  ICE=CREAM. 

Take  two  pounds  of  cherries,  one  quart  of  cream,  twelve  ounces  of 
sug^ar.  Pound  the  cherries  in  a  mortar  with  their  pits  in  them.  Pass  the 
pulp  through  a  sieve,  add  the  sugar  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons  to  the 
cream  and  a  little  red  color.     Freeze  it.  Henrietta  M. 

RASPBERRY  ICE=CREAn. 

Mix  one  pound  of  ripe  raspberries  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  one-half 
pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  one  and  one-half  pints  of  thick  cream,  or, 
if  preferred,  one  pint  of  cream  and  one-half  pint  of  milk.  Beat  the  mix- 
ture in  a  basin,  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  freeze  and  leave  it  in  the  ice-pail 
till  it  is  wanted.  If  more  convenient,  raspberry  jam  or  raspberry  jelly 
may  be  used  in  place  of  the  fresh  fruit,  and  when  this  is  done  very  little 
sugar  will  be  required.  A  still  more  agreeable  and  refreshing  ice-cream 
may  be  made  with  two  portions  of  red  currants  mixed  with  one  portion  of 
raspberries,  instead  of  raspberries  alone.  C.  Casper. 

GINGER  ICE=CREAiVl. 

Take  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  preserved  ginger,  cut  it  into  very  thin 
slices,  using  a  silver  knife,  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  cream 
— or  a  pint  of  milk  boiled  and  mixed  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs — one-half 
pound  of  sugar,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  ginger  syrup.  Stir  the  mix- 
ture over  the  fire  until  it  thickens  a  little,  then  strain  through  a  sieve. 
Pour  into  a  mold  and  when  the  cream  is  cold,  freeze  in  the  ordinary  way. 
Keep  in  ice  till  wanted.  W.  T.  M. 

BRICK  ICE=CREAM. 

To  make  ice-cream  in  bricks  a  mold  of  the  size  and  shape  of  an  ordi- 
nary brick  is  need.  The  ices,  no  matter  what  their  composition,  are 
used  to  fill  these  molds  which  are  made  of  copper  or  tin.  After  the  molds 
are  Trozen  they  are  cut  in  slices  previous  to  being  handed  round.  A 
knife  dipped  in  hot  water  is  used  for  this  purpose.  F.  L.  P. 

BOHEMIAN  ICE-CREAM. 

The  smaller  varieties  of  ripe  red  fruit  are  used  to  make  this  cream; 
they  are  pulped  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  to  one  pint  of  the  juice  is  added 
one  and  one-half  ounces  of  the  best  isinglass,  dissolved  in  one-half  pint  of 
water.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  squeeze  in  lemon  juice.  Mix  with  this 
quantity  a  pint  of   sweetened    whipped  cream   and   mold   for   freezing. 


342  ICE-CREAMS,   ICES  AND  SHERBETS. 

These  creams,  where  raspberries  only  are  used,  may  be  put  into  glasses, 
and  made  without  isinglass — in  the  proportions  of  a  pound  of  fruit  juice 
to  one  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Leander  Holmes. 

NOYEAU  ICE=CREAM. 

Sweeten  one-half  pint  of  thick  cream  with  two  ounces  of  sugar.  Add 
one  tablespoonful  of  strained  lemon  juice  and  a  glassful  of  noyeau.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  freeze  in  the  usual  way. 

The  noyeau  for  this  cream  is  composed  in  this  manner:  Gather  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  young  peach  leaves  on  a  dry,  sunny  day.  Put  them 
into  a  jar  and  pour  over  them  two  pints  of  good  brandy  and  leave  them 
to  infuse  for  a  couple  of  days.  Add  a  syrup  made  by  dissolving  a  pound 
of  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water.  Let  the  noyeau  remain  a  few  hours  longer, 
then  filter  it  carefully  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  H.  F.  L. 

CRUSHED  FRUIT  ICE-CREAM. 

Two  quarts  of  pure  cream,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  and  one-half  cupfuls 

of  granulated  sugar,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  any  extract  you  prefer,  or,  if 

fruit  is  substituted,  use  about  a  pint,  or  a  little  less,  of  crushed  fruit,  well 

sweetened,  to  the  above  amount  of  cream.     Add  the  fruit  when  the  cream 

is  partly  frozen.  .  Mrs.  L.  Benson. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  A  LA  COLBERT. 

Boil  three  pints  of  cream  with  ten  ounces  of  sugar  until  reduced  to  a 
quart.  Melt  one-half  pound  of  chocolate  over  a  slow  fire  in  one-half  pint 
of  water.  Mix  the  melted  chocolate  with  the  cream,  together  with  two 
ounces  of  gelatine  that  has  been  soaked  in  water.  When  the  gelatine  is 
melted  and  well  mixed  strain  the  whole  through  a  cloth  into  a  basin. 
Stir  on  ice  till  the  contents  begin  to  set  and  mix  in  three  pints  of  well- 
whipped  cream.  E.  D.  White. 

BAKED-APPLE  ICE=CREAM. 

Seven  large  baked  apples  with  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  two  cupfuls  of 
water,  when  well  baked  put  through  sieve;  add  one  pint  of  rich  cream  and 
one  cupful  of  milk;  sweeten  more  than  usual,  cream,  and  color  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  red  sugar  and  freeze.  Minette  Bailey. 

APRICOT  ICE. 

Skin,  divide  and  stone  six  large  ripe  apricots.  Blanch,  pound  and  add 
the  kernels  of  the  fruit,  with  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  one-half  pint  of 
water  and  two  pints  of  clarified  sugar.  Then  pass  all  though  a  fine  sieve 
and  again  strain  before  freezing.     It  takes  twenty-five  minutes  to  freeze. 

C.  Gaines. 


M 

*3tt  yff\)SS  Pap?x  caught ! 


■pun  ^TEAKJ 
Gaj-niyhed  wi1h  Poteclo  Badl-S 


FOOD  FURNISHED  BY  THE  SEA,  LAKES  AND  RIVERS. 

See  Chapter  entitled  "Fish"-"Shell  Fish"-and  note  all  the  favorite  way,^  of  cooking 

them,  as?  well  as  their  value  to  man  as  brain  builders. 


M] 


ICE-CREAMS,   ICES  AND   SHERBETS.  345 

CHERRY  ICE. 

The  juice  of  three  lemons,  a  teacupful  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  red 

cherries.     Add  a  pint  of  water  and  freeze.     Serve  in  sherbet  glasses,  with 

candied  cherries  on  top.  Miss  Heller. 

QRAPE  ICE. 

Mix  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  water;  bring 
it  to  the  boiling  point  and  pour  it  while  hot  over  four  pounds  of  ripe 
grapes,  which  have  been  mashed  to  a  pulp.  Let  stand  covered  for  one 
hour,  then  rub  through  a  sieve  and  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  freeze. 
When  partly  frozen  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Finish 
freezing  and  set  away  for  two  hours.  Mrs.  Amy  Burns. 

CURRANT  ICE. 

Take  one  pint  of  currant  juice,  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of 
water.  Place  the  ingredients  in  the  freezer  and  when  partly  frozen  add 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Delilah  Loche. 

LEMON   ICE. 

Dissolve  one-half  package  of  gelatine  in  one  pint  of  cold  water. 
Take  eight  lemons  and  press  out  the  juice,  mixing  it  with  one  and  one- 
quarter  pounds  of  white  sugar;  pour  one  quart  of  hot  water  on  both  sugar 
and  lemons.  Add  one  and  one-half  pints  of  boiling  water  to  the  gelatine 
and  when  thoroughly  dissolved  add  this  to  the  rest  of  the  ingredients. 
Strain  and  let  cool.  Then  whip  fifteen  minutes  and  freeze.  More  deli- 
cious than  ice-cream.  Aurora  Powers. 

niLK  SHERBET. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  four  lemons  on  three  cupfuls  of  sugar;  put  the 
skins  with  a  cupful  of  water  on  the  fire,  and  let  simmer  ten  minutes. 
Scald  two  quarts  of  milk,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  and  one 
cupful  of  sugar.  When  cold  put  in  freezer  and  when  it  begins  to  stiffen 
add  the  lemon  and  sugar;  then  freeze.  Marian  Lovewell. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

Make  a  thick  syrup  by  boiling  one  quart  of  water  and  one  pound  of 
sugar  for  fifteen  minutes.  Pare  and  finely  shred  a  pineapple.  Let  stand 
two  hours  before  using.  Sprinkle  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  cover 
well.  Allow  the  fruit,  juice  and  shreds  to  infuse  in  the  warm  syrup  until 
entirely  cold — an  hour  if  convenient.     Freeze  and  serve  in  small  cups. 

Mrs.  H.  F.  Tibbitts. 


346  ICE-CREAMS,   ICES  AND   SHEKBETS. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 

Rub  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  upon  nine  fresh  lemons 
until  the  yellow  part  is  taken  off.  Put  the  sugar  into  a  bowl,  squeeze  upon 
it  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  add  one  quart  of  water.  Stir  the  liquor  till 
the  sugar  is  dissolved,  strain,  and  freeze  as  for  ice-cream. 

Julia  Dickerson. 

LEHON  SHERBET— No.  2. 

Rub  the  yellow  rind  of  three  lemons  with  lumps  of  sugar,  to  get  the 
flavor.  Press  the  juice  of  six  lemons  and  remove  all  the  seeds.  Put  the 
sugar  and  juice  with  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  into  one-half  gallon  of 
water.  Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  stirring  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  pulverized  white  sugar.  Then  slowly  stir  it  in  the  lemonade 
and  put  it  immediately  in  a  patent  freezer,  with  salt  and  ice  around  the 
freezer  (the  same  as  for  ice-cream)  and  turn  it  until  it  is  frozen  as  hard  as 
you  wish  it.     This  is  very  delicate  and  resembles  a  dish  of  snow. 

M.  Harmon. 
RASPBERRY  SHERBET. 

Take  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  the  juice  pressed  from  three  pints  of 
raspberries,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  water.     Freeze. 

E.  J.  F. 
FRUIT  ICE. 

Grate  two  large  lemons,  take  the  juice,  a  glassful  of  grape  syrup,  a 
pint  of  thick  cream  and  eight  ounces  of  powdered  sugar.  Mix  and  freeze, 
and  when  sufficiently  congealed  add  four  ounces  of  preserved  fruits,  cut 
small  and  mixed  well  with  the  ice.  Let  the  cream  remain  in  the  ice  until 
wanted.  Mrs.  H.  Pennoyer. 

COFFEE  SHERBET. 

To  a  pint  of  strong  coffee  add  a  pint  of  cream,  six  heaping  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar  and  six  drops  of  vanilla.  Put  coffee,  cream,  sugar  and 
extract  all  in  together  and  freeze.     Serve  in  glasses. 

Mrs.  Philander  Loche. 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 

Two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  water,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
juice  of  five  oranges  and  one  lemon;  make  a  syrup  of  the  water  and  sugar 
by  boiling  about  twenty  minutes.  When  cool  add  fruit  juice  and  freeze; 
serve  in  small  glasses.  Mrs  D  G.  Loche. 


ICE-CREAMS,  ICES  AND  SHERBETS.  347 

GRAPE  5HERBET. 

Lay  a  square  of  cheese-cloth  over  a  jar,  put  in  one  pound  of  ripe 
grapes;  mash  thoroughly  with  a  wooden  masher;  drain  the  juice;  add  an 
equal  amount  of  cold  water,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  sugar  to  make  it 
very  sweet.     Freeze  as  usual.  Metta  Miller. 

STRAWBERRY  SHERBET. 

Take  one  pound  of  ripe  strawberries  and  bruise  them.  Mix  with 
them  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  tablespoonful  of  orange-flower 
water,  and  pour  upon  them  three  pints  of  cold  water.  Let  them  soak  four 
hours.  Powder  a  pound  of  white  sugar  and  put  into  a  separate  dish. 
Squeeze  the  juice  into  this  through  muslin  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved.    Strain  it  again  and  set  it  on  ice  until  wanted.       Mrs.  C.  Kent. 

TURKISH  SHERBET. 

Boil  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  with  one  and  one-half  pints  of  water  to 
a  clear  syrup.  Skim  carefully  and  pour  it  .into  a  bowl.  When 'cold  stir 
into  it  one  and  one-half  pints  of  strained  lemon  juice  and  one  quart  of 
white  veal  stock,  clear  and  strong.     Serve  in  glasses. 

Mrs.  Amy  Strong. 
NESSELRODE  PUDDING. 

Peel  two  dozen  Spanish  chestnuts.  Put  them  into  boiling  water  five 
minutes,  take  off  the  second  skin  and  boil  until  tender  with  one-half  of  a 
stick  of  vanilla  and  one-half  the  thin  rind  of  a  fresh  lemon  in  the  water 
with  them.  Drain  them  well  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar.  Press  them 
through  a  hair-sieve  and  mix  w^ith  them  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  a  glass  of  maraschino,  and  one-half  pint  of  thick  cream. 
Dissolve  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  best  isinglass  in  a  little  water,  stir 
it  into  one-half  pint  of  hot  cream,  add  the  chestnuts,  etc.,  and  keep  stir- 
ring the  mixture  gently  until  it  is  sufficiently  stiff  to  hold  the  fruit  without 
letting  it  fall  to  the  bottom.  Work  in  two  ounces  of  picked  and  dried 
currants  and  two  ounces  of  candied  citron  cut  into  thin  strips.  Put  the 
mixture  into  an  oiled  mold  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  stiffen. 

,  ,  Mrs.  W.  Abler. 

SOUFFLE  A  LA  VANILLA. 

Take  six  eggs  and  whip  the  whites,  three  pints  of  whipped  cream, 
twelve  ounces  of  sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Whip  the  Qgg  whites  well, 
then  whip  in  the  sugar.  Whip  the  cream  and  mix  all  together.  Add  the 
flavoring.  Pour  the  mixture  into  the  mold  and  put  the  mold  into  strong 
salted  ice.  Mrs.  Emma  Beidelmann. 


348  ICE-CREAMS,   ICES  AND  SHERBETS. 

ICE  CREAM  SOUFFLE. 

Four  eggs,  three  gills  of  good  cream,  five  ounces  of  sifted  sugar  and 
essence  of  vanilla.  Whip  the  cream  in  a  cold  basin  until  it  is  stiff.  Whisk 
the  eggs  to  a  froth  with  a  knife  on  a  plate.  Mix  them  lightly  into  the 
cream  and  add  the  sugar  and  essence.  Freeze  it  in  the  cream  freezer 
and  dress  it  in  a  souffle  tin.  Mrs.  Mary  Manning. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  (FROZEN.) 

Cut  a  sponge  cake  into  sheets  one-quarter  of  an  inch  or  more  thick, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  molds  used,  the  thin  sheets  for  small  molds. 
Dissolve  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  gelatine  in  a  gill  of  hot  water.  Beat 
a  quart  of  cream  in  a  large  china  bowl,  set  on  ice  removing  the  froth  often 
till  only  one-half  pint  of  cream  is  left,  to  which  add  four  ounces  of 
pulverized  sugar,  and  the  flavoring,  which  may  be  a  teaspoonful  of  either 
orange,  vanilla  or  nectarine  When  the  gelatine  is  lukewarm,  strain  it, 
with  the  sugar  and  cream,  into  the  froth,  in  a  bowl  set  on  ice;  stir  till  it 
begins  to  stiffen,  then  fill  thetnolds  and  keep  on  ice  till  wanted  to  serve. 

Mrs.  D.  Roberts. 
FROZEN  BANANAS. 

Cut  four  bananas  crosswise  in  very  thin  slices;  add  two-thirds  cupful 
of  powdered  sugar,  let  stand  an  hour,  then  add  one  quart  of  water  and 
the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved  put  all  in  a 
freezer  and  freeze  as  you  would  ice-cream.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Stewart. 

FROZEN  PEACHES. 

One  quart  of  ripe  peaches  pared  and  sliced,  one  quart  of  water,  one  pint 
of  sugar.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  freeze.  This  is  a  delicious  change 
from  the  usual  desserts.  Minnie  B.  Heath. 

FROZEN  PINEAPPLE  CUSTARD. 

One  pint  of  milk  and  two  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  with  two-thirds  cup- 
ful of  sugar  and  stir  into  the  milk,  then  heat  it  to  nearly  the  boiling  point, 
stirring  all  the  time.  When  cold  add  one  cupful  of  sweet  cream  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Place  in  the  freezer  and  turn  till  almost  solid, 
then  stir  in  one  small  pineapple  grated  which  has  stood  an  hour  in  one 
cupful  of  sugar.  Adelaide  R.  Covert. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI. 

Take  one  quart  of  water  ice  or  sherbet,  two  ounces  of  blanched 
almonds,  two  ounces  of  French  candied  cherries,  two  ounces  of  candied 


ICE-CREAMS,  ICES  AND  SHERBETS.  349 

apricots,  two  ounces  of  candied  dwarf  orange.  In  a  quart  mold  spread 
one-half  pint  of  pineapple  ice  and  set  the  mold  in  a  mixture  of  ice  and 
salt.  Soak  the  nuts  and  fruit  till  soft  in  a  syrup  of  equal  parts  of  water 
and  sugar,  chop  them  up  very  small,  mix  them  with  a  pint  of  orange  ice 
and  pack  well  down  on  the  first  layer,  making  the  top  smooth.  Fill  the 
mold  above  the  brim  with  pineapple  ice,  press  the  cover  down  so  as  to 
force  out  the  surplus,  bind  a  buttered  strip  over  the  joint,  pack  in  ice  and 
salt,  and  freeze  from  two  to  three  hours.  This  is  the  famous  Italian  Tutti- 
Frutti.  Mrs.  A.  R.  G. 

FROZEN  MIXED  FRUITS. 

One  pint  of  strawberries,  one  pint  of  raspberries,  one  pint  of  red  cur- 
rants, one  pint  of  water,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  one  and  one-half  pounds 
of  sugar;  mash  the  fruit,  add  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  let  stand  an 
hour,  add  the  water,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  turn  into  the 
freezer  and  freeze.     Sufficient  for  eight  people.  Alice  A.  Young. 

FROZEN  SOUFFLE. 

Take  three  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar  and  yolks  of  five  raw 
eggs,  whip  slowly.  Mix  in  gently  one  pint  of  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  one  dozen  macaroons  or  same  amount  of  sponge  cake  cut  in 
small  pieces.  Turn  into  a  mold  which  has  been  wet  in  ice  water,  cover 
tightly,  bind  with  a  buttered  cloth  and  bury  in  ice  and  salt  for  two  hours. 

Mother. 

ICED  OATMEAL  FLAKES. 

Stir  four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  Quaker  Oats  or  wheat  flakes  into 
three  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  fast  boiling  water,  add  salt,  and  cook  for 
twenty  minutes,  using  a  double  boiler.  Cook  the  day  before  using,  pour 
into  cups,  filling  each  one-half  full,  place  on  ice  over  night  and  when 
ready  to  serve  remove  from  cups  and  eat  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 
A  little  fruit  strewed  over  is  an  improvement.  Miss  Hood. 

ICED  PINEAPPLE. 

Peel  a  fresh  pineapple;  hold  it  by  the  crown  and  grate  it,  using  a 
grater  with  a  dish  large  enough  to  receive  all  the  juice.  Put  the  grated 
pineapple  in  glass  cups,  dusrit  well  with  powdered  sugar;  keep  on  ice  for 
an  hour.     To  be  eaten  with  macaroons.  Mrs.  Percival. 


350  ICE-CREAMS.   ICES  AND  SHERBETS. 

PINEAPPLE  AND     ORANGE  SHERBET. 

Shred  a  fresh  pineapple  (or  the  canned  fruit  will  answer),  add  one 
pint  of  sugar,  juice  of  two  oranges,  one-half  pint  of  water,  juice  of  one 
lemon,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  that  has  been  soaked  for  one 
hour  in  one  cupful  of  cold  water,  and  dissolve  in  one  cupful  of  hot  Water; 
mix  all  together  well  and  freeze.  Mrs.  W.  Rider. 

CONVENIENT  VANILLA  FLAVORING. 

The  best  way  to  flavor  with  vanilla  is  to  buy  two  of  the  best  Mexican 
vanilla  beans  and  put  them  in  a  glass  fruit  jar  filled  with  granulated  sugar 
and  kept  tightly  closed.  Use  the  sugar  in  making  desserts.  The  jar  can 
be  refilled  with  sugar  a  number  of  times  for  the  same  beans. 

Mrs.  Rider. 

PINEAPPLE  JULEP. 

Pare  a  very  ripe  pineapple  with  as  little  waste  as  possible,  and  cut  it 
into  thin  slices.  Lay  these  in  a  large  bowl  and  strain  over  them  the  juice 
of  two  sweet  oranges.  Pour  in  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  raspberry  syrup 
and  mix  thoroughly.     Just  before  serving  add  a  tumblerful  of  shaved  ice. 

Mary  Vining. 


OJ(FECTIOHERY 


ANY    people    to-day    object    to 
candy  because  of  the  poisonous 
pastes  used  in  the  coloring.     This  ob- 
jection is  bringing  about  the  use  of  fruit 
juices    instead    of   dyes  which   are   not 
only   harmless   but    make   candy   look 
even  more  attractive   than    under   the 
old  method.     We  give  below  a  happy  mother's  various  methods  of  how 
to  color  candy  with  fruits  and  vegetables. 

PREPARING  SUGAR  TO  COLOR. 

Rub  as  much  sugar  as  is  desired  for  making  candy  through  a  fine  sieve 
into  a  granite  pan.  Place  on  the  stove  to  warm,  stirring  till  nearly  dry; 
turn  out,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  H.  F.  E. 

TO  COLOR  CANDY  YELLOW. 

Put  fresh-grated  peel  of  lemon  or  orange  in  a  muslin  bag  with  a  speck 
of  water,  squeeze  tightly;  mix  the  juice  with  sugar.  Carrot  treated  in  the 
same  way  will  give  forth  excellent  coloring  matter.  H.  F.  E. 

TO  COLOR  CANDY  CREAM  COLOR. 

Follow  same  method  as  above,  using  less  color  in  the  mixture 

M    F    F 
TO  COLOR  CANDY  GREEN. 

Pound  vigorously  a  peck  of  freshly  cut  spinach,  that  has  been  well 
washed.  Place  it  in  a  mortar  dripping  wet  and  pound  till  it  is  soft  and 
pulpy.  Wring  the  whole  through  a  strong,  clean  cloth.  Pour  juice  into  a 
saucepan  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  begins  to  curdle,  then  pour  the 
whole  through  a  sieve  to  drain.  Mix  with  the  juice  equal  quantity  of 
sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  spirits  of  wine  and  a  pinch  of  powdered  alum. 
Keep  cool  in  a  well-corked  glass  bottle.  H.  F.  E. 

TO  COLOR  CANDY  RED. 

The  color  red  is  easily  obtained  from  the  pure  juice  of  strawberry, 
raspberry  or  cranberry.     This  can  be  made  in  the  fruit  season,  bottled, 

351 


352  CONFECTIONERY. 

and  kept  ready  for  use  (see  Chapter  Fresh  Fruits).  Cochineal  can  also 
be  used  if  desired  although  the  fruit  juice  is  more  to  be  recommended. 
Lay  a  little  cochineal  on  a  plate,  add  to  it  a  little  cream  of  tartar  and  alum 
and  boil  with  one-half  cupful  of  water  for  twenty  minutes,  then  strain 
through  muslin.  H.  F.  E. 

TO  COLOR  CANDY  PINK. 

Follow  same  directions  as  above  only  use  less  coloring  matter  in  the 
mixture.  H.  F.  E. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  CARAMEL  SUGAR  FOR  CANDY. 

Put  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  finely-sifted  sugar  into  a  preserving 
pan,  with  one-fourth  cup  of  water,  place  it  on  a  moderate  fire,  and  stir  it 
with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it  becomes  brown;  then  stir  it  constantly  until 
it  is  a  dark  brown.  Add  one  cup  of  hot  water.  Draw  it  to  the  side  of 
the  fire  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  one-quarter  of  an  hour  longer. 
Strain  and  bottle  for  use.  If  the  fire  is  too  fierce,  the  caramel  will  be 
discolored.  D.  C.  F. 

PINK  SUGAR  FOR  ORNAMENTING. 

Crush  the  sugar  either  coarsely  or  to  a  powder,  whichever  is  required. 
Place  two  or  three  drops  of  fruit  juices  or  prepared  cochineal  in  the  palm 
of  the  hand,  and  rub  the  sugar  in  with  it  until  it  is  sufficiently  colored, 
when  it  is  ready  for  use.  S.  C.  A. 

TO  CLARIFY  SUGAR. 

Melt  four  pounds  of  sugar  in  two  quarts  of  water,  over  the  fire. 
When  it  boils  beat  in  the  white  of  one  ^^^  well  whisked.  Let  come  to  a 
boil,  skim,  boil  ten  minutes;  strain  and  bottle.  Charlotte  Hunt. 

FLAVORED  SUGAR. 

Rub  the  required  quantity  of  powdered  sugar  through  a  fine  sieve  on 
a  granite  pan,  set  it  on  the  stove  to  warm,  and  whisk  in  any  kind  of 
flavoring  desired.  H.  E.  A. 

HOW  TO  TELL  WHEN  CANDY  IS  SUFFICIENTLY  COOKED. 

There  are  several  methods  of  testing  sugar  while  cooking.  All  skilled 
sugar  boilers  advise  the  use  of  a  thermometer  graduated  from  fifty  degrees 
Fahrenheit  to  350  degrees  Fahrenheit.  They  claim  that  while  the  sugar 
is  undergoing  the  process  of  boiling  it  is  very  nearly  impossible  for  a 
learner  to  determine  the  exact  degree  which  the  sugar  has  attained  with- 
out the  aid  of  the  thermometer.     However,  only  a  few  skilled  boilers  use 


CONFECTIONERY.  353 

them.  The  common  method  is  to  drop  a  drop  of  the  syrup  into  cold  water. 
The  sugar  must  be  boiled  according  to  the  kind  of  candy  to  be  made,  and 
there  are  several  degrees,  known  as  "smooth,"  "thread,"  "ball,"  and 
"crack."  All  these  stages  of  the  syrup  must  be  learned  by  experi- 
menting, and  the  ingenuity  of  the  candy-maker  brought  into  use.  The 
"crack"  degree  (300  degrees  or  over)  is  used  for  most  candies.  It  is  a 
good  plan  to  butter  the  dish  in  which  sugar  or  molasses  is  to  be  cooked 
within  a  couple  of  inches  of  the  top.  This  prevents  the  sugar  rising  any 
any  higher  and  running  over. 

Do  not  put  candy  in  a  refrigerator  to  cool,  but  in  a  cold,  dry  place. 

E.  J.  C. 
NUT  CANDY. 

In  one  gill  of  cold  water  dissolve  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one-half 
salt-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Place  over  the  fire  and  cook  till  brittle, 
stirring  in  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of  butter.  Shell  some  peanuts  or  any 
other  nuts  desired.  Rub  off  the  inner  skin,  put  a  layer  two  deep  on  the 
bottom  of  well-buttered  tins  and  when  the  candy  is  hot  pour  it  over  the 
nuts  and  leave  till  cold.     Break  it  into  pieces  of  convenient  size. 

•  Dorothy  Buchanan. 

MACAROONS  OF  NUTS. 

Pound  the  meats  of  hickory  nuts  and  add  nutmeg  and  allspice.  Make 
a  frosting  as  if  for  a  cake,  stirring  in  the  nuts  and  spices.  Butter  the 
hands  and  work  into  little  balls  the  size  of  hickory  nuts;  place  them  on 
buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  They  will  spread  a  little  on  the 
tins.  Pearl  Butler. 

LEHON  DROPS. 

Dissolve  a  coffee-cupful  of  powdered  sugar  with  lemon  juice.  Boil 
till  it  is  brittle  when  a  little  is  plunged  into  cold  water.  Butter  plates  and 
let  the  candy  fall  on  them  in  drops.     Set  away  to  get  hard. 

Jean  Lamont. 
COCOANUT  DROPS. 

Grate  a  cocoanut,  add  one-half  of  its  weight  of  sugar  and  the  white  of 
an  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  thoroughly  and  drop  on  buttered 
white  paper  or  tin  plates.     Bake  fifteen  minutes.  John  Fuller. 

PEPPERMINT  DROPS. 

Take  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil  with  one-half  cup- 
ful of  water.     Take  it  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  this  degree  of 


n54  CONFECTIONERY. 

heat.  Stir  all  the  time  and  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  pep- 
permint and  drop  the  candy  on  an  oiled  slab.  Pour  it  from  the  spout  of 
the  pan  else  the  liquid  will  grain  before  the  drops  are  molded. 

Jannet  Bluer. 
COUGH  DROPS. 

Prepare  the  following:  Two  ounces  of  dried  hoarhound,  one  ounce  of 
dried  camomile,  one  ounce  of  boneset,  and  two  ounces  of  mullein-flowers; 
place  them  all  in  a  saucepan,  cover  them  with  water  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Turn  out  into  an  earthenware  dish  and  cover  tightly  and  let 
stand  until  cold.  Strain  and  pass  the  liquor  through  a  hair-sieve.  Meas- 
ure the  liquor  and  to  each  pint  allow  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar.  Put  the 
sugar  and  liquor  into  a  saucepan,  boil  to  the  crack  degree,  let  it  cool,  pour 
it  into  a  buttered  pan  and  cut  it  into  squares.  Dr.  Smith. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE. 

Put  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  in  a  spider  over  not  too  hot  a  fire;  stir  con- 
stantly till  it  melts;  then  stir  in  quickly  one  teacupful  of  chopped  peanuts; 
mix  thoroughly  and  pour  on  a  buttered  platter;  spread  thin. 

Anna  Schuere. 
BALTIMORE  CARAHELS. 

One-half  cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  two  cupfuls  of 
sugar,  two  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate,  butter  the  size  of  an  ^%%\  boil 
from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes;  when  taken  from  the  fire  add  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla.  Tessa  Welch. 

FIG  CANDY. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  water,  boil  over  a  slow  fire;  when  done 
add  small  piece  of  butter;  be  careful  to  boil  slowly  and  not  quite  the 
usual  thickness;  turn  all  over  split  figs.  Lettie  Weeks. 

ALHOND  CANDY. 

Two  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk; 
boil  until  it  will  crisp  in  water  like  molasses  candy;  add  one-half  cupful  of 
blanched  almonds,  perfectly  dry.  W.  T.  M. 

CHINESE  FRUIT  CANDY. 

One  cocoanut,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  wet  with 
the  milk  of  the  cocoanut;  put  in  saucepan,  let  heat  slowly;  then  boil 
rapidly  five  minutes,  add  the  cocoanut  grated  very  fine  and  boil  ten  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly;  try  on  a  cool  plate;  if  it  forms  a  firm  paste  when 


CONFECTIONERY.  355 

cool  take  it  from  the  fire,  pour  one-half  of  it  out  on  a  large  tin  lined  with 
greased  paper,  then  add  to  the  remaining  cream  one-fourth  pound  of 
raisins  (stoned),  one-half  pound  of  blanched  almonds,  one  pint  of  pecan 
nuts,  one-half  cupful  of  chopped  walnuts;  pour  over  the  other  cream. 
When  cool  cut  in  bars.  Alice  Wilson. 

POTATO  CANDY. 

Bake  ordinary-sized  potatoes,  scrape  out  inside,  mash  fine,  add  quickly 
as  much  confectioner's  sugar  as  it  will  take;  have  ready  nut  meats;  stir 
in  all  you  wish;  make  into  tiny  little  balls  or  pats;  when  cold,  are  deli- 
cious. If  you  wish  chocolate  creams,  dip  the  above  into  melted  Baker's 
chocolate;  lay  on  a  buttered  paper  to  cool.  Besse  T. 

MAPLE  CANDY. 

To  two  cupfuls  of  maple  syrup  add  one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar 
and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Cook  until  it  hardens.  Pour  into  but- 
tered pan  and  set  away  to  cool.  Ruby. 

RIBBON  CANDY. 

Boil  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  moistened  with  water,  to  the  crack,  flavor- 
ing and  coloring  it  as  desired;  turn  it  into  a  greased  pan  and  let  it  cool. 
Turn  in  the  edges,  and  pull  either  with  the  hands  or  by  means  of  a  hoop, 
until  light  in  appearance.  Run  it  through  a  roller  set  so  close  that  it  will 
come  out  as  thin  as  a  wafer.  Make  into  fancy  shapes  and  let  cool  before 
packing  away  in  boxes.  Of  course,  butter  the  hands  before  beginning  to 
pull.  E.  Arnold. 

PINEAPPLE  GLACE. 

Cut  a  pineapple  crosswise  into  thin  slices  and  then  again  into  quarters. 
Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  lay  the  fruit  in  this,  drain 
and  dip  again  the  part  that  drips  off.  Select  the  pieces  one  by  one  and 
by  the  aid  of  a  skewer  dip  them  into  finely  powdered  sugar.  Place  the 
fruit  in  an  oiled  or  buttered  pan  and  put  in  an  oven  that  is  cooling.  Pile 
them  on  a  dish  and  set  them  in  a  cool  place  until  wanted. 

Palmer  Miller. 
BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

Take  three  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  four  ounces  butter.  Do  not  stir 
it  but  as  soon  as  it  snaps  and  breaks  add  a  good  pinch  of  baking  soda. 
Let  boil  two  minutes  longer  and  pour  it  into  well-buttered  biscuit  tins. 
While  partly  cold  mark  off  into  squares.  P.  Miller. 


356  CONFECTIONERY. 

FUDGES. 

Four  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  cream,  one- 
half  cupful  of  milk,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one-half  cake  of 
Baker's  chocolate  grated.  Put  all  over  hot  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
stirring  constantly.  Place  pan  in  another  of  hot  water  and  cook  until  it  is 
easily  formed  into  a  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water,  but  not  hard  or 
brittle.  Remove  from  fire  at  this  stage,  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  set.  Pour  in  pan  to  depth  of  one-half 
inch  and  mark  off  in  squares.  Stanley  Miller. 

EVERTON  TAFFY. 

Take  one-half  pound  of  the  best  quality  of  brown  sugar,  one  ounce  of 
butter,  one-half  wine-glassful  of  water.  Let  sugar  and  water  boil  till  they 
become  a  smooth,  thick  syrup.  Add  three  drops  of  lemon  essence,  stir- 
ring briskly.     Pour  into  buttered  pans  or  onto  a  marble  slab. 

T.  J.  M. 
NOUGAT. 

This  is  a  rare    confection  made   of  various  kinds  of    nuts.     When 

newly  prepared  it  is  sufficiently  elastic  to  enable  one  to  mold  into  cups, 

baskets  or  any  other  shapes.     The  following  recipes  give  two  styles  to 

make  them. 

ALMOND  NOUGAT. 

Put  eight  ounces  of  fine  powdered  sugar  into  a  copper  egg-whipping 
bowl  and  mix  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  whipping  continually  over  a 
clear  fire  until  the  paste  is  of  the  consistency  of  thick  batter.  Add  one- 
half  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped  into  small  pieces,  two 
ounces  of  chopped  candied  orange  peel,  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  sugar 
(see  flavored  sugar — this  chapter),  and  a  few  drops  of  strawberry  juice. 
Mix  and  spread  out  upon  two  pieces  of  wafer-paper  to  about  one  inch  in 
thickness,  cover  with  two  more  pieces  of  paper,  using  a  flat  tin  with  a 
small  weight  on  top  to  keep  them  level.  Put  them  in  an  oven  of  very 
moderate  heat  and  bake  for  a  few  minutes.  Take  out  and  when  nearly 
dry  cut  them  up  into  oblong  squares,  or  shape  into  baskets  when  first 
taken  from  the  oven;  form  them  before  they  have  a  chance  to  harden. 

M.  E.  R. 
BRAZILIAN  NOUGAT. 

Blanch  five  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  and  cut  them  into  fine  threads. 
Roast  the  meats  of  three  ounces  of  Brazilian  nuts  and  peel  and  chop  them 
with  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  candied  lemon  peel,  mix  them  with  the 


CONFECTIONERY.  357 

almonds  and  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  confectioner's  sugar.  Whip  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  sir  them  into  the  other  ingredients  and 
work  all  to  a  paste.  Spread  on  a  sheet  of  wafer-paper,  cover  with 
another  sheet,  press  between  two  sheets  of  tin  and  put  in  the  oven  for 
thirty  minutes.     Leave  till  cold  before  cutting  up.  M.  A.  B. 

CANDIED  CHERRIES,  PINEAPPLE  AND  OTHER  FRUITS. 

Boil  but  do  not  stir  one-half  pound  of  loaf  sugar  in  one  breakfast-cup- 
ful of  water.  Pit  some  cherries,  or  prepare  any  desired  fruit,  and  string 
them  on  a  thread,  then  dip  them  in  the  syrup;  suspend  them  by  the 
thread.  When  pineapples  are  used,  slice  them  crosswise  and  dry  them  on 
a  sieve,  or  in  the  open  air;  oranges  should  be  separated  into  sections  and 
dried  like  pineapple.  E.  S. 

CANDIED  NUTS. 

Prepare  the  syrup  as  above.  Instead  of  stringing  the  nuts,  put  the 
point  of  a  skewer  into  each  one  and  dip  into  the  syrup.  Dry  as  you 
would  oranges  or  pineapple.  E.  S. 

CREAM  DATES. 

Boil  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of 
sweet  milk;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Boil  about  ten  minutes. 
Let  it  cool;  when  lukewarm  beat  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 
When  it  becomes  a  soft,  creamy  substance  have  ready  seeded  dates,  fill 
with  this  cream  and  serve.  T.  P.  M. 

BRAZIL=NUTS  PRALINES. 

Put  one  pound  of  shelled  Brazil-nuts  into  a  pan  over  the  fire  with  one- 
fourth  of  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  water  mixed  and  two  cupfuls  of  brown 
sugar.  Let  boil  until  they  begin  to  sparkle,  then  remove  the  pan  from 
the  fire  and  with  a  spoon  stir  the  nuts  well  until  the  sugar  begins  to  feel 
gritty;  put  them  over  a  slow  fire  again  in  order  to  dissolve  the  sugar  and 
keep  on  stirring  until  they  turn  reddish;  pour  them  onto  a  sieve,  cover 
the  sieve  with  a  clean  cloth  and  place  it  in  the  oven;  this  will  dry  the 
sugar  and  cause  the  nuts  to  look  glossy.  Any  other  nuts  may  be  used 
instead.  .  D.  Z.  Brooks. 

COCOA  NUT  JAP. 

Over  a  slow  fire  place  one  quart  of  New  Orleans  molasses  and  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  When  it  boils  add  five  grated  cocoanuts  and 
stir  until  it  reaches  a  hard  ball,  that  is,  will  adhere  to  the  teeth  when  bit- 


358  CONFE  CTIONER  Y. 

ten.  Now  pour  out  upon  a  buttered  tin,  spread  as  thick  as  desired  with 
the  blade  of  a  knife.  Cut  into  squares  or  diamonds  before  it  is  wholly 
cold.  Chicago  Cooking  School. 

ATLANTIC  CITY  CARAMELS. 

Put  one  and  three-fourths  pounds  of  sugar  into  a  sugar  boiler  with  ^ 
one-eighth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tar- 
ter, one-eighth  of  a  pound  of  cocoa  paste  and  one-half  ounce  of  white  wax 
of  paraffin;  pour  in  one  tumblerful  of  rich  cream  and  boil  over  a  clear  fire 
till  it  "hairs."  Have  ready  a  well-buttered  pan,  pour  over  the  mixture  and 
let  it  cool.  Cut  into  cubes  or  other  shapes,  wrap  them  up  separately  in 
wax  paper  and  lay  them  away  in  boxes. 

Pupil,  Boston  Cooking  School. 

CREAH  CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

Mix  together  in  a  graniteware  saucepan  one-half  pint  of  sugar,  one- 
half  pint  of  molasses,  one-half  pint  of  thick  cream,  one  generous  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  four  ounces  of  chocolate.  Place  on  the  fire  and 
stir  until  the  mixture  boils.  Cook  until  a  few  drops  of  it  will  harden  if 
dropped  into  ice-water;  then  pour  into  well-buttered  pans,  having  the 
mixture  about  three  inches  deep.  When  nearly  cold  mark  into  squares. 
It  will  take  almost  an  hour  to  boil  this  in  a  graniteware  pan  but  not  half 
so  long  if  cooked  in  an  iron  frying-pan.  Stir  frequently  while  boiling. 
The  caramels  must  be  put  in  a  very  cold  place  to  harden. 

Maria  Parloa. 

SUGAR  CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

Mix  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  milk  or  cream, 
one  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  three  ounces  of  chocolate. 
Place  on  the  fire  and  cook,  stirring  often,  until  a  little  of  the  mixture  when 
dropped  in  ice-water  will  harden;  then  stir  in  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of 
sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  and  pour  into  a  well-buttered  pan, 
having  the  mixture  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch  deep.  When  nearly 
cold,  mark  it  off  in  squares  and  put  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  These 
caramels  are  sugary  and  brittle,  and  can  be  made  in  the  hottest  weather  ^ 
without  trouble.  Miss  Maria  Parloa. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.     Gradually  beat  into  this 
two  cupfuls  of  confectioners'  sugar.     If   the  eggs  be  large,  it  may  take  a 


CONFECTIONERY.  359 

little  more  sugar.  Flavor  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  work 
well.  Now  roll  into  little  balls  and  drop  on  a  slightly  buttered  platter. 
Let  the  balls  stand  for  an  hour  or  more.  Shave  five  ounces  of  chocolate 
and  put  into  a  small  bowl,  which  place  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  containing 
boiling  water.  When  the  chocolate  is  melted,  take  the  saucepan  to  the 
table  and  drop  the  creams  into  the  chocolate  one  at  a  time,  taking  them 
out  with  a  fork  and  dropping  them  gently  on  the  buttered  dish.  It  will 
take  one-half  hour  or  more  to  harden  the  chocolate.  Miss  Parloa. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS— No.  2. 

For  these  creams  you  should  make  a  fondant  in  this  way:  Put  into  a 
graniteware  saucepan  one  cupful  of  water  and  two  cupfuls  of  granulated 
sugar — or  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  nearly  melted; 
then  place  on  the  fire  and  heat  slowly,  but  do  not  stir  the  mixture. 
Watch  carefully  and  note  when  it  begins  to  boil.  When  the  sugar  has 
been  boiling  for  ten  minutes,  take  up  a  little  of  it  and  drop  in  ice-water. 
If  it  hardens  enough  to  form  a  soft  ball  when  rolled  between  the  thumb 
and  finger,  it  is  cooked  enough.  Take  the  saucepan  from  the  fire 
instantly  and  set  in  a  cool  dry  place.  When  the  syrup  is  so  cool  that  the 
finger  can  be  held  in  it  comfortably,  pour  it  into  a  bowl,  and  stir  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  it  becomes  thick  and  white.  When  it  begins  to  look 
dry,  and  a  little  hard,  take  out  the  spoon,  and  work  with  the  hand  until 
the  cream  is  soft  an(4  smooth.  Flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla,  and, 
after  shaping,  cover  with  chocolate,  as  directed  in  the  preceding  recipe. 

Caution. — Do  not  stir  the  syrup  while  it  is  cooking,  and  be  careful  not 
to  jar  or  shake  the  saucepan.  Miss  Parloa. 

SUGARED  ALMONDS. 

Boil  together  a  syrup  made  from  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of 
water.  Blanch  one  pound  of  sweet  almonds  and  put  them  in;  let  them 
boil  for  some  minutes.  Take  them  out  and  drain  them;  let  the  syrup  boil 
until  thick,  then  return  the  almonds,  and  take  them  out  when  coated  with 
sugar,  which  will  be  in  a  minute  or  two.  They  should  be  thoroughly 
dried  and  kept  in  a  warm  place.  Mrs.  Maria  Tomlin. 

ALnOND  BON-BONS. 

Grilled  almonds  make  a  delicious  bon-bon.  Blanch  a  cupful  of 
almonds  and  dry  them  thoroughly.  Boil  one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar 
with   one-quarter  cupful   of  water  until  it  "hairs";    then   throw  in   the 


'M^ 


3G0  CONFECTIONERY. 

almonds.  Let  them  cook  in  this  syrup,  stirring  occasionally  until  they 
become  a  delicate  golden  brown  before  the  sugar  changes.  As  soon  as 
the  sugar  commences  to  take  on  a  color  quickly  take  the  pan  from  the 
fire  and  stir  the  almonds  rapidly  until  the  syrup  has  turned  back  to  sugar 
and  clings  irregularly  to  the  nuts.  Mrs.  Almira  Town. 

ICE=CREAM  CANDY. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  water,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  boil  all  together 
fifteen  minutes,  not  stirring  till  taken  from  the  fire,  then  add  vanilla, 
strawberry,  or  any  extract  preferred.  L.  G.  Gramm. 

BUTTER  TAFFY. 

This  taffy  can  be  made  of  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of 
water,  one  teaspoonful  of  molasses,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Lissie  Mooney. 

FIG  CANDY. 

Use  one-half  pound  of  white  sugar  and  one-half  pint  of  water.  Set 
over  a  slow  fire.  When  done,  which  can  be  told  by  dropping  some  in  cold 
water,  when  it  should  harden,  add  a  large  lump  of  butter  and  six  drops 
of  vinegar.     Pour  into  pans  in  which  figs  that  have  been  split  are  laid, 

A-la-Huyler. 

POP-CORN  BALLS. 

Pop  the  corn  and  take  out  all  the  hard  kernels,  then  put  in  a  large 
pan,  the  larger  the  better.  For  seventy  balls,  take  two  cupfuls  of  sugar 
and  two  cupfuls  of  molasses  and  boil  them  until,  when  you  drip  a  little 
into  cold  water,  it  is  brittle;  then  pour  in  a  thin  stream  over  the  corn. 
One  person  should  pour  and  the  other  stir  up  the  corn  constantly  to  get  it 
all  njixed  in  with  the  candy.  The  less  candy  used  the  better.  The  corn 
must  be  salted  and  buttered.     Work  it  into  balls  with  the  hands. 

B.  Felt. 
nOLASSES  CANDY. 

One  cupful  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
^gg,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Boil,  but  do  not  stir,  until  it  hardens 
when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Watch  it  that  it  does  not  burn.  When  it 
becomes  hard  and  brittle  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  beat  well;  pour 
into  buttered  pan  and  when  cool  pull  until  yellow,  using  butter  on  your 
hands,  so  that  the  candy  will  not  stick.  M.  C.  B. 


ti 


> 


CONFECTIONERY.  361 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

Two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  of  chocolate,  one- 
half  cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  butter. 
Cook  to  254 %  stir  in  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  pour  in  buttered  pan. 

School  of  Education. 


CANDY  ROSES  (DAINTY). 

Boil  some  sugar  and  water  until  when  a  fork  is  dipped  into  the  pan  it 
throws  off  the  sugar  as  fine  as  threads.  Then  it  is  read}-.  Rub  the  inside 
of  some  cups  with  olive  oil  and  put  into  each  cup  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
syrup  and  one  rose;   let  stand  until  cold,  turn  out,  and  ser\^e  in  a  bon-bon 

dish.  A.    GUNTHER, 

FROSTED  WALNUTS. 

Remove  the  shells  from  four  dozen  walnuts.  Take  off  skins,  separate 
them  into  halves  and  dip  them  into  an  icing  made  of  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  and  the  white  of  an  ^^^  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Place  them  on  a 
sheet  of  clean  paper,  stand  them  in  the  oven,  and  bake  a  light  brown 
color.     Take  out,  remove  from  the  paper  and  they  are  ready  to  ser\'e. 

M.  E.  R. 

A  SUGAR  OFF  WITH  MAPLE  SYRLP. 

Those  who  have  lived  among  the  maple  groves  of  Vermont,  Xew 
York,  Michigan  or  parts  of  Canada  know  what  real  enjoyment  there  is  in 
a  "Sugar  Off.*'  But  good  things  like  these  cannot  be  kept  a  secret,  and 
so  if  you  want  one  of  the  nicest  edible  treats  of  your  life,  take  two  quarts 
of  genuine  (not  imitation!  maple  syrup  and  put  it  over  the  fire  in  a  large 
granite  kettle  and  let  it  boil  without  stirring  until  you  can  wax  it  b}^  drop- 
ping a  little  in  cold  water.  While  it  is  boiling,  get  read}-  some  pieces  of 
flat  ice,  about  four  or  fiA'e  inches  thick  and  five  inches  long.  Put  one  piece 
on  each  plate.  Now  when  all  is  readj^  lift  from  the  kettle  by  means  of  a 
large  spoon  a  little  of  the  "Sugar  Off'  and  spread  over  the  ice.  Eat  at 
once  while  it  is  warm.  Xo  harm  if  it  cools,  except  that  the  pleasure  wanes 
with  the  cooling.  If  ice  is  not  to  be  had,  snow  or  cold  water  will  answer 
the  purpose  but  ice  is  better.  Some  prefer  to  eat  it  from  a  saucer  without 
either  ice  or  snow.  By  stirring  the  wax  in  a  saucer  it  will  grain  and 
become  sugar.     It  is  still  good.  Mrs.  Eliza  Locke. 


362  CONFECTIONERY. 

NUT  riACAROONS.  | 

Chop  fine,  hickory  nuts,  pecans  or  walnuts;  make  frosting  as  for 
cakes,  stir  in  meats,  putting  in  enough  to  make  it  easy  to  handle;  flour 
the  hands  and  make  the  mixture  into  balls  the  size  of  nutmegs;  lay  on 
buttered  tins,  leaving  room  to  spread,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Delicious. 

LiDA. 
COUGH  CANDY. 

Three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water  and  vinegar  mixed  half 
and  half.  Stir  before  putting  on  the  stove,  but  not  after.  When  partly 
done  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Just  before  removing  from  the 
stove,  stir  in  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  few  drops  of 
hot  water.     When  cool  enough  to  handle  pull  white.  Luella  T. 

NUT  AND  POPCORN  CANDY. 

Take  three  quarts  of  corn  freshly  popped  and  stir  it  into  two  cupfuls 
of  New  Orleans  syrup  that  has  boiled  until  it  threads  from  the  spoon. 
Before  adding  corn  however,  stir  in  the  syrup  a  speck  of  soda  dissolved 
in  hot  water,  then  add  one  cupful  of  finely  flavored  hickory-nut  meats  and 
then  the  corn.  Stir  all  until  the  sugar  is  evenly  distributed  over  the  corn. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  cools  a  little,  and  in  this  way  you  may 
have  each  kernel  separated  and  all  coated  with  sugar.      Lillie  Miller. 

BUTTER=SCOTCH  FOR  A  COLD. 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  dark  molasses,  one  cupful  of 
fresh  tried  lard  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Boil  over  a  slow  fire  until 
it  hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Pour  on  tins  well  buttered  and 
mark  into  little  inch  squares,  before  it  cools.  M.  Hill. 


^OFFEE,  TEA, 

COCOA  atid  BEVERAGES 

AS  THE  human  body  is  composed  of  two-thirds  its  weight  in  water,  so 
upon  the  Hquid  we  drink  depends,  to  a  large  degree,  health  and 
long  life.  Through  it,  the  blood  receives  new  life  and  discharges  the 
worn-out  substances.  In  this  way  it  becomes  a  part  of  the  human  frame, 
and  is  derived  principally  from  the  outside,  in  the  form  of  drinks  and  food. 

DRINKING  WATER. 

Great  care,  therefore,  should  be  exercised  as  to  the  sort  of  water  we 
drink  as  well  as  to  the  food  we  eat.  Water,  when  pure,  is  a  colorless, 
transparent  liquid. 

Rain  water  is  the  best  example  of  pure  water  known,  but  when  it 
stands  in  cisterns  it  is  liable  to  become  contaminated  by  neighboring  sinks 
and  vaults  and  rendered  unfit  to  drink. 

Spring  water  is  the  nearest  approach  to  perfect  water  that  we  have. 
This  is  particularly  so  when  it  f^ows  through  rocky  or  sandy  soil.  A  "liv- 
ing spring"  is  a  boon  to  humanity,  and  how  beautiful  that  our  country  is 
blessed  with  them. 

FILTERED  WATER. 

The  functions  of  water  are  so  important  to  the  human  race  that 
where  the  least  suspicion  occurs  as  to  its  purity,  it  should  be  either  filtered 
or  boiled  before  using.  Many  people  in  cities  take  the  double  precaution. 
They  first  filter  the  water,  then  boil  it.  In  boiling,  the  insoluble  lime  which 
the  water  takes  up  in  its  passage  through  the  air  and  soil  is  precipitated  to 
the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  thus  the  impurities  are  eliminated,  and  the  water 
becomes  soft.  Filters  are  procurable  at  a  slight  cost.  They  are  valur 
able  in  taking  sediment  out  of  water,  but  they  do  not  remove  germs. 
Boiling  must  do  this. 

BAD  EFFECTS  OF  ICE-WATER. 

Ice-water  taken  to  excess  is  detrimental.  It  chills  the  mucous  mem- 
branes, and  creates  an  inflammation  which  calls  for  more  and  more  of  the 
liquid.     It  interferes  with  the  formation  of  gastric  juices.     Dyspepsia  is 

363 


364  COFFEE,    TEA,  COCOA  AND  BEVERAGES. 

also  often  traceable  to  its  use.  An  old-fashioned,  but  good,  method  of 
cooling  water  for  drinking  purposes  is  to  draw  it  in  a  stone  pitcher,  cover 
over  the  top  and  place  several  folds  of  cloth  around  the  outside,  wetting 
them  as  often  as  they  become  dry.  Another  way,  and  a  better  one  still  if 
one  has  ice,  is  to  bottle  the  water  and  set  the  bottle  on  ice. 

HEALTHFULNESS  OF  TEA  AND  COFFEE. 

Much  has  been  said  of  the  unhealthfu  ness  of  tea  and  coffee,  in  pro- 
ducing unpleasant  and  dyspeptic  symptoms,  but  a  person  of  ordinary  good 
health  can  partake  of  both  beverages  moderately  with  food,  without 
serious  effects. 

Both  coffee  and  tea  should  be  kept  in  tin  "caddies."  Wood  will 
impart  an  odor  to  either  article  if  enclosed  in  it.  Coffee  should  be  bought 
in  small  quantities  and  in  the  green  berry,  if  practicable.  When  one 
roasts  and  grinds  it  oneself  one  is  certain  of  no  adulterations.  Three- 
fourths  Java  and  one-fourth  Mocha  makes  the  best  mixture. 

TEA— HOW  TO  MAKE. 

Tea  should  be  made  as  soon  as  the  water  boils,  and  only  a  small 
quantity  of  hot  water  should  be  poured  on  at  first.  Then  it  should  be  set 
back  from  the  fire  where  it  will  "draw"  for  about  five  minutes,  then  filled 
up  with  boiling  water  and  brought  to  the  table.  The  usual  recipe  is  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  tea  to  each  cupful  of  water,  but  I  should  advise  much  less 
tea  than  this. 

Water  that  has  stood  in  the  kettle  over  night  should  never  be  used. 
Ceylon  tea  must  be  made  in  small  quantities,  and  made  often,  as  it 
becomes  bitter  by  standing.  Uncolored  Japan  is  considered  the  purest  of 
all  teas.  An  Old  Tea  Drinker. 

RUSSIAN  TEA. 

A  tea  made  after  the  manner  of  that  made  in  Russia  is  growing  in 
favor  in  this  country  and  especially  so  for  afternoon  tea  drinking.  To 
make  it  properly  a  semivar  is  needed  but  in  the  absence  of  the  semivar,  tea 
can  be  made  in  the  usual  way  and  poured  into  cups  in  which  has  been 
placed  a  thin  slice  of  lemon.     Serve.  Society  Woman. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  GOOD  COFFEE. 

Coffee  is  the  breakfast  beverage  of  thousands,  but  how  little  enjoy- 
ment if  it  is  so  poorly  made  as  to  lead  one  to  wonder  if  the  real  coffee 
ever  entered  into  its  make-up.  For  five  persons  use  one-half  cupful  or  a 
trifle  more  of  ground  coffee;   stir  into  it  one-half  of  the  white  of  an  egg 


COFFEE,  TEA,  COCOA  AND  BEVERAGES.  365 

and  a  little  cold  water.  Now  pour  all  into  the  coffee  boiler  and  pour  on 
five  cups  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  slowly  come  to  a  boil  and  then,  with  a 
granite  spoon,  stir  it  up  and  set  it  back  on  the  range  to  settle.  In  eight 
minutes  it  is  ready,  clear  as  amber  and  very  delicious. 

T.  J.  Thompson. 
DRIP  COFFEE. 

Hardware  stores  now  sell  a  patent  coffee  pot  which  has  a  compart- 
ment for  placing  the  coffee  in,  and  the  boiling  water  is  poured  on  it  and 
it  drips  or  filters  through.  A  good  drip  pot  may  be  made  by  taking  a 
ring  that  fits  the  inside  of  the  pot  at  the  top  and  a  muslin  bag  can  be 
sewed  on  this  ring,  into  which  the  ground  coffee  can  be  put.  Pour  all  the 
boiling  water  you  will  need  over  the  coffee  and  close  the  lid.  When  it 
has  all  passed  through  it  is  done  and  ready  to  drink. 

Anna  Stone,    M.   D. 
ICED  COFFEE. 

Take  one  quart  of  hot  coffee  and  one  quart  of  hot  milk,  but  not 
boiled,  and  pour  both  into  an  ice-cream  freezer.  Sweeten,  cover  and 
place  it  in  a  tub  of  ice  and  rock  salt.  Turn  the  freezer  for  six  minutes 
and  serve  in  glasses  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Minnie  Johnson. 

COFFEE  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM. 

Put  into  each  cup  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  boil- 
ing milk.  Fill  the  cups  two-thirds  full  with  hot  coffee  and  put  on  top  two 
spoonfuls  of  the  whipped  cream.  Minerva  Weeks. 

BLACK  OR  AFTER=DINNER  COFFEE. 

Put  one  cupful  of  coffee  in  the  coffee  boiler,  a  little  ^gg  and  cold 
water.  Stir  well,  then  pour  on  three  cupfuls  of  boiling  water.  Put  on  the 
cover  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  stir  and  let  stand  in  a  hot  place  for  fifteen 
minutes.     Serve  in  demi-tasse  cups.  Etta  Stebbins. 

CRUST  COFFEE. 

Brown  entire  wheat  bread  until  quite  hard  and  crush  Vv^ith  rolling-pin; 
place  one-half  cupful  in  coffee  pot;  pour  over  one  pint  of  boiling  water 
and  boil  five  minutes.  Add  one  pint  of  milk,  let  heat  and  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar.    Let  settle  two  or  three  minutes  and  pour. 

Marion  Davis,  M.  D. 
ACORN  COFFEE. 

Acorn  coffee  is  much  used  in  Germany  as  a  substitute  for  ordinary 
coffee.     It  is  said  to  be  strengthening  to  consumptive  persons.     Acorns 


366  COFFEE,  TEA.  COCOA  AND  BEVERAGES. 

are  very  astringent  in  their  raw  state,  but  they  lose  this  quality  when 
roasted.  Delicate  children  are  benefitted  by  this  method  of  preparinj? 
acorns.  They  are  always  gathered  in  autumn  when  they  are  ripe,  shelled 
and  cut  into  pieces  the  size  of  coffee  berries  when  they  are  thoroughly 
dried  in  a  cool  oven.  They  are  then  roasted  like  ordinary  coffee,  until 
they  become  a  cinnamon-brown.  After  roasting,  the  acorns  are  ground 
or  pounded  in  a  mortar,  to  prevent  their  becoming  tough;  a  very  little 
butter  is  added  and  the  coffee  is  then  placed  in  air-tight  bottles.  Prepare 
in  the  same  way  as  ordinary  coffee.  Julia  Davis. 

CHOCOLATE  AS  A  HELTHFUL  DRINK. 

It  is  evident  that  the  coming  American  is  going  to  be  less  of  a  tea  and 
coffee  drinker  and  more  of  a  cocoa  and  chocolate  drinker.  This  is  the 
natural  result  of  a  better  knowledge  cf  the  laws  of  health  and  of  the  food 
value  of  a  beverage  which  nourishes  the  body,  while  it  stimulates  the 
brain. 

There  are  to-day  many  manufacturers  of  chocolate  and  cocoa.  I  am 
often  asked  which  kind  is  the  best.  This  is  a  hard  question  to  answer, 
for  all  claim  superior  merit.  For  the  benefit  of  my  readers  I  copy  below 
a  paragraph  which  appeared  in  "The  Medical  World,"  in  1896.  The 
source  of  the  article  led  me  to  think  that  The  Walter  Baker  &  Co.'s 
chocolate  and  cocoa  was  pure,  and  ever  since  I  have  used  it  for  both 
cooking  and  drinking  purposes,  and  have  found  it  to  be  excellent: 

"Tea  and  coffee  are  stimulants;  chocolate  is  a  food,  a  delicious  and 
nutritious  food.  Messrs.  Walter  Baker  &  Co.,  of  Dorchester,  Mass.,  have 
manufactured  these  preparations  for  over  a  hundred  years;  and  prominent 
among  their  numerous  claims  of  merit  is  that  of  absolute  purity.  The 
admixture  of  alkalies  is  prominent  in  Germany,  but  the  above-mentioned 
American  firm  use  no  alkalies  or  other  chemicals  or  dyes  in  their 
processes." 

All  chocolate  and  cocoa  recipes  contained  herein,  signed  by  Miss 
Parloa,  have  been  tried  by  the  above  firm  and  pronounced  perfect.  I  use 
them  with  their  permission. 

PLAIN  CHOCOLATE. 

For  six  people,  use  one  quart  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  chocolate,  one 
tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  water.  Mix  the  corn-starch  with  one  gill  of  the  milk. 
Put  the  remainder  of  the  milk  on  to  heat  in  the  double  boiler.  Wlien  the 
milk  comes  to  the  boiling  point  stir  in  the  corn-starch  and  cook  for  ten 


COFFEE,  TEA,  COCOA  AND  BEVERAGES.  367 

minutes.  Have  the  chocolate  cut  in  fine  bits  and  put  it  in  a  small  iron  or 
granite-ware  pan;  add  the  sugar  and  water  and  place  the  pan  over  a  hot 
fire.  Stir  constantly  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  glossy.  Add  this  to 
the  hot  milk,  and  beat  the  mixture  with  a  whisk  until  it  is  frothy.  Or  the 
chocolate  may  be  poured  back  and  forth  from  the  boiler  to  a  pitcher,  hold- 
ing high  the  vessel  from  which  you  pour.  This  will  give  a  thick  froth. 
Serve  at  once.  If  you  prefer  not  to  have  the  chocolate  thick  omit  the 
corn-starch.  Maria  Parloa. 

CHOCOLATE  MADE  WITH  CONDENSED  MILK. 

Follow  the  rule  for  plain  chocolate,  substituting  water  for  the  milk, 
and  adding  three  tablespoonfuls  of  condensed  milk  when  the  chocolate  is 
added.  Miss  Parloa. 

CHOCOLATE,  VIENNA  STYLE. 

Use  four  ounces  of  vanilla  chocolate,  one  quart  of  milk,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Cut  the  chocolate 
in  fine  bits.  Put  the  milk  on  the  stove  in  the  double  boiler  and  when  it 
has  been  heated  to  the  boiling  point,  put  the  chocolate,  sugar  and  water 
in  a  small  iron  or  graniteware  pan  and  stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth 
and  glossy.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  hot  milk  and  beat  well  with  a 
whisk.  Serve  at  once,  putting  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  in  each 
cup  and  then  filling  up  with  the  chocolate.  The  plain  chocolate  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  vanilla,  but  in  that  case  use  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
extract  and  three  generous  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  instead  of  one. 

Maria  Parloa. 
COCOA. 

Breakfast  cocoa  is  powdered  so  fine  that  it  can  be  dissolved  by  pour- 
ing boiling  water  on  it.  For  this  reason  it  is  often  prepared  at  the  table. 
A  small  teaspoonful  of  the  powder  is  put  in  the  cup  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar;  on  this  is  poured  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  milk 
or  cream  is  added  to  suit  the  individual  taste.  This  is  very  convenient; 
but  cocoa  is  not  nearly  so  good  when  prepared  in  this  manner  as  when  it 
is  boiled.  For  six  cupfuls  of  cocoa  use  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
powder,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water  and 
one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk.  Put  the  milk  on  the  stove  in  the  double 
boiler.  Put  the  cocoa  and  sugar  in  the  boiler  and  gradually  pour  the  hot 
water  upon  it,  stirring  all  the  time.  Place  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and 
stir  until  the  contents  boil.  Let  this  mixture  boil  for  five  minutes;  then 
add  the  boiling  milk  and  serve.  A  gill  of  cream  is  a  great  addition  to 
this  cocoa.  Miss  Parloa. 


368  COFFEE,  TEA,  COCOA  AND  BEVERAGES. 

CHOCOLATE  GLACE. 

After  making  a  glace  frosting  (see  Glace  Icings),  dissolve  one  ounce 
of  chocolate  in  a  cup  and  put  it  with  the  frosting,  adding  also  a  table- 
spoonful  of  boiling  water.  Miss  Parloa, 

POSTUM  FOOD  COFFEE. 

(For  Weak  Stomachs.) 

This  is  excellent  for  those  who  are  troubled  with  weak  stomachs. 
Can  be  found  at  all  grocers.     Directions  for  use  are  on  each  package. 

Nurse. 
ORANGEADE. 

To  two  cupfuls  of  orange  juice  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons  add 
enough  water  and  sugar  to  taste  good;    strain  and  serve  with  shaved  ic^. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Waldron. 
IMPERIAL  DRINK. 

Put  one-half  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar  into  a  large  pitcher  which 
should  be  well  heated  first;  add  the  sliced  rind  of  a  large  lemon,  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar  and  three  pints  of  boiling  water.  Cover 
closely  and  let  the  pitcher  stand  near  the  fire  for  an  hour.  Stir  the  liquid 
often  while  hot  and  when  quite  cold  and  clear  pour  off  from  the  sediment. 

P.  B.  M. 
COCOA  SHELLS. 

These  shells  are  very  nutritious  and  free  from  the  oil  that  both  cocoa 
and  chocolate  contain.  Take  a  heaping  teacupful  to  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water.  Boil  them  two  hours.  Scald  milk  as  for  coffee.  If  there  is 
not  time  to  boil  shells  long  enough  before  breakfast,  it  is  well  to  soak  them 
over  night  and  boil  them  in  the  same  water  in  the  morning. 

Amanda  Johnson. 
LEMONADE. 

Lemonade  should  be  made  in  the  proportion  of  one  lemon  to  each 
large  goblet.  Squeeze  the  lemons  and  take  out  any  seeds.  If  you  do  not 
like  the  pulp  strain  the  juice.  Sweeten  the  drink  well  though  that  is  a 
matter  of  taste.  The  pleasant  tart  taste  should  be  preserved.  Add  water 
to  the  juice  and  when  serving  put  cracked  ice  and  a  thin  slice  of  lemon 
into  each  glass.  E.  J.  C. 

MILK  SHAKE. 

Fill  a  glass  two-thirds  full  of  milk;  sweeten  it  to  taste  with  any  fruit 
syrup  or  with  sugar  and  then  flavor  with  vanilla  or  orange  water.  Fill  up 
glass  with  cracked  ice  and  shake  together  until  well  mixed. 

Etta  Stillberger. 


COFFEE,  TEA,  COCOA  AND  BEVERAGES.  369 

BUTTERMILK. 

Buttermilk  is  an  exceedingly  wholesome  drink,  especially  good  for 
corpulent  people  and  dyspeptics.  If  put  into  clean  bottles  and  canned  or 
sealed  will  keep  for  a  long  time.  Minnie  Mann. 

GRAPE  BEVERAGE. 

Two  pounds  of  grapes,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
water.  Squeeze  the  grapes  in  a  coarse  cloth,  to  extract  the  juice:  add  the 
sugar,  and  when  dissolved,  the  water,  let  stand  for  a  few  minutes  on  ice. 
Serve  in  glasses  with  shaved  ice.      Add  more  sugar  if  the  grapes  are  tart. 

Mrs.  Minnie  Maynard. 

GINGER  LEMONADE. 

Take  one-half  cupful  of  currant  jelly,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  ginger;  stir  well  together,  put  in  a  quart  pitcher  and  fill 
with  ice  water.  If  one  wants  it  sweeter  or  sourer  more  of  the  ingredients 
may  be  put  in.  It  is  a  cooling  drink  and  almost  as  good  as  lemonade, 
some  preferring  it.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Thompson. 

ICED  BUTTERMILK. 

There  is  no  healthier  drink  than  buttermilk,  but  it  must  be  fresh  and 
rich  to  be  good.  It  should  be  kept  on  ice  and  just  before  serving  a  little 
shaved  ice  put  into  each  glass  will  improve  it  still  more.      C.  I.  Milton. 

A  5UMMER  DRINK. 

Take  one  quart  of  cold  water,  three  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  white 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  oil  of  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  beaten 
up  with  the  whites  of  five  eggs;  mix  together.  Divide  the  syrup  and  add 
four  ounces  of  carbonate  of  soda  to  one-half,  which  put  in  a  bottle.  Then 
add  three  ounces  of  tartaric  acid  to  the  other  one-half  of  the  syrup  and 
bottle  it  also.  When  a  cool  drink  is  wanted  take  two  pint  tumblers  and 
placing  a  tablespoonful  of  syrup  fone  from  each  bottle)  in  each  tumbler; 
fill  each  one  half  full  of  fresh  cold  water.  Then  pour  both  into  one  tum- 
bler and  it  is  ready.  Mrs.  Jane  Harding. 

EGG-NOG. 

The  yolk  of  an  ^%%  must  be  well  beaten  with  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
a  trifle  of  salt,  two-thirds  glassful  of  milk;  one-half  teaspoonful  of  rum  and 
one  of  brandy.  Lastly  add  the  white  of  the  ^^^  well  beaten  and  stir 
lightly.  Add  speck  of  nutmeg  for  flavoring.  This  will  only  make  one 
tumblerful.  Mrs.  A.  M.  Garland. 


370  COFFEE,  TEA,  COCOA  AND  BEVERAGES. 

KOUMISS. 

(Excellent  for  Invalids.) 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar-syrup,  one-half 
cupful  of  fresh  buttermilk.  Mix  until  the  sugar  dissolves.  Let  stand  in 
a  warm  place  ten  hours,  then  pour  from  one  dish  into  another  until  it  is 
smooth  and  thick.  Bottle  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  for  from  twenty-four 
to  twenty-eight  hours.  Cork  the  bottles  and  tie  down  or  use  the  patent 
fasteners.     Shake  for  a  few  minutes  before  using.  Inis  Smith. 

A  REFRESHING  SUHMER   DRAUGHT. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  one  lemon  into  one  cupful  of  cold  water,  sweeten 
to  taste.  When  well  mixed  put  in  one  small  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of 
soda;  stir  well,  and  drink  while  the  mixture  is  in  an  effervescing  state. 

Anna  Percival. 
RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Fill  a  stone  jar  that  is  not  glazed,  with  raspberries;  pour  vinegar  over 
them  till  the  jar  is  full.  Let  it  stand  nine  days,  stirring  it  every  day. 
Strain  it  off  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
white  sugar.  Boil  it  as  long  as  any  scum  rises,  and  bottle  up  for  use.  A 
dessert-spoonful  of  this  in  a  glassful  of  water  will  prove  a  refreshing 
drink.  Mina  Wester. 

LEMON  SYRUP.  ' 

A  syrup  that  is  nice  for  bottling  for  future  use  is  made  by  boiling  the 
juice  from  one  dozen  lemons  till  clear,  with  two  pounds  of  white  sugar  to 
each  pint.  A  pint  of  water  should  be  added  to  the  pulps,  and  this  strained 
with  the  juice  of  the  lemons.  Boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  This 
makes  a  nice  drink.  Mrs.  M.  Harper. 

CURRANT   WATER. 

Take  one  cupful  of  ripe  crushed  currants,  mix  with  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  of  pulverized  sugar  and  one-half  pint  of  cold  water.  Pour  the  mix- 
ture through  a  fine  sieve,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  and  one-half 
pints  of  cold  water;  mix  thoroughly,  strain  again  and  set  on  ice  till 
wanted.  This  is  a  nice,  cool  drink  on  a  warm  day  and  easily  made  in 
currant  season.  Miss  C. 

GRAPE  JUICE. 

Stew  one-half  gallon  of  ripe  grapes  in  a  quart  of  water.  Strain 
through  cheese-cloth.  Add  one  cupful  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice. 
Boil  twenty  minutes,  skim  and  seal  up.  Celestia  Veck. 


COFFEE,  TEA,  COCOA  AND  BEVERAGES.  371 

ACIDULATED  ALKALI. 

Blend  thoroughly  two  ounces  of  carbonate  of  soda,  two  ounces  of 
tartaric  acid  and  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf  sugar.  Flavor 
with  essence  of  lemon.  Keep  the  mixture  in  a  bottle,  well  corked.  Stir 
a  teacupful  briskly  into  a  tumbler  three  parts  full  of  water  and  drink  dur- 
ing effervescence.  Beulah  Townsend. 

A  SUMMER  DRINK— No.  2. 

Take  one-half  bottle  of  Hire's  Extract,  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one- 
half  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  cent's  worth  of  yeast,  two  and  one-half 
gallons  of  water,  or  enough  to  make  it  lukewarm.  Put  the  sugar  and 
ginger  in  a  bowl,  pour  boiling  water  on  to  dissolve.  Then  remove  them 
to  a  large  pan  and  add  the  rest  of  the  water.  Make  it  cool  enough  so 
that  the  extract  and  the  yeast  may  be  added.  The  yeast  should  have 
been  dissolved  in  a  cupful  of  warm  water.  Then  bottle  and  let  it  stand  a 
day  before  placing  it  on  ice.  Mrs.  Maggie  Black. 

ROMAN  PUNCH. 

Take  five  lemons,  one  quart  of  water,  sweetened  to  taste.  Freeze 
this.  Take  the  white  of  an  ^^^  and  whip  to  snow.  Add  sugar.  Mix  it 
thoroughly  with  the  basis  of  the  punch  and  add  one-half  pint  of  Jamaica 
rum  and  freeze.  Edith  Pendleton. 

CHAMPAGNE  PUNCH. 

Take  five  lemons,  one  quart  of  water,  well  sweetened.  Freeze.  Add 
white  of  an  ^^^  whipped  well,  with  sugar.  Use  one  gill  of  brandy,  one- 
half  gill  of  Jamaica  rum  and  one  pint  of  champagne. 

Mary  C.  Thurston. 
ORANGE  PUNCH. 

Dissolve  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  pint  of  boiling 
water.  Add  the  strained  juice  of  a  small  lemon,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
brandy,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  orange  wine  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  rum. 
The  punch  may  be  taken  either  hot  or  cold,  and  if  bottled  and  corked 
closely  will  keep  for  some  time.  Margaret  Fuller. 

HOT  BRANDY  PUNCH. 

One-fourth  pint  of  Jamaica  rum,  one-half  pint  of  brandy,  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  lemon  and  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Put  the 
sugar  into  a  punch  bowl,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  mix  well  together.  Pour 
over  them  the  boiling  water,  add  the  rum  and  brandy;  mix  thoroughly 
and   the  punch  will  be  ready  to  serve.     Nutmeg  may  be  added  if  desired. 

F.  A.  E.  . 


372  COFFEE,  TEA,  COCOA  AND  BEVERAGES. 

MULLED  ALE. 

Heat  one  quart  of  good  ale  with  a  little  nutmeg;  beat  five  eggs  and 
mix  them  with  a  little  cold  ale;  then  pour  the  hot  and  cold  ale  back  and 
forth  several  times  to  prevent  its  curdling;  warm  and  stir  it  till  sufficiently 
thick;  add  a  glass  brandy;  strain  and  serve  in  tiny  glasses.  O.  T.  T. 

LEMONADE  A  LA  GRAPE  JUICE. 

Take  a  ten-pound  basket  of  very  ripe  sweet  grapes,  stew  well,  strain 
and  bottle  immediately  in  patent-cork  bottles.  With  two  quarts  sweet 
lemonade  mix  one  small  bottle  of  the  juice  and  you  have  a  rich,  delicate, 
handsome  and  healthful  drink.  Minerva  Felt. 

UNFERMENTED   GRAPE  JUICE. 

Take  any  quantity  of  Concord  grapes,  after  they  get  ripe  and  sweet; 
pick  them  from  the  stems,  wash  clean  and  cook  until  they  are  soft,  then 
mash  with  potato  masher.  Strain  through  colander,  then  through  a  cloth 
or  jelly  bag;  measure  the  juice  and  allow  one-half  pound  of  sugar  to  one 
quart  of  juice.  Boil  together,  but  not  too  long,  or  the  flavor  of  the  grapes 
will  be  destroyed;  bottle  and  seal  for  use  the  next  summer.  Pour  a  small 
bottle  of  juice  into  a  pitcher  of  lemonade  or  can  be  drank  alone  for 
invalids.  Rilla  C.  Johnson. 

HARVEST  DRINK. 

In  pint  pitcher  put  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy,  a  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  sugar,  one  well-beaten  ^%^\  fill  the  pitcher  with  shaved  ice  until 
one-half  full,  then  fill  up  pitcher  with  imported  ginger  ale;  stand  five 
minutes,  when  it  is  ready  to  drink.  Mrs.  Emily  Dean. 

MILK  SHERBET, 

Juice  of  three  lemons,  rind  of  one,  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  quart  of 
milk;  freeze  and  stir  continually.  Hettie  Blackwell. 

PICNIC  PUNCH. 

Juice  of  two  oranges,  three  cupfuls  of  strong  sweet  lemonade,  one 
glassful  champagne,  one  glassful  of  rum,  the  whipped  whites  of  two  eggs, 
one-half  pound  of  white  sugar,  beaten  with  the  eggs;  use  plenty  of  ice  or 
freeze.  Miss  N.  Pees. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB. 

Place  raspberries  in  stone  jar,  cover  with  good  cider  vinegar,  let  stand 
over  night;  next  morning  strain  and  to  one  pint  of  juice  add  one  pint  of 
sugar;  boil  ten  minutes;  bottle  while  hot;  use  about  one-half  glassful  of 
shrub  to  one-half  glassful  of  pounded  rice  and  cold  water.  Delicious 
drink  for  summer.  Mrs.  Julia  Howitt. 


COFFEE,   TEA,   COCOA   AND  BEVERAGES.  373 

BLACKBERRY  BRANDY. 

Two  quarts  of  blackberry  juice,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar, 
one-half  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one-half  ounce  of  grated  nutmeg,  one-fourth 
ounce  of  cloves,  one  ounce  of  allspice;  boil  a  few  moments;  when  cool  add 
one  pint  of  brandy;  put  into  bottles  and  cork  tightly. 

Mrs.  T.  M.  Battle. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

To  one  gallon  of  juice  add  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  one-half  ounce 
of  cloves,  one  ounce  of  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  allspice;  boil  twenty-five 
minutes;  add  one  quart  of  brandy  when  cold.  Marion  McNeil. 

SASSAFRAS  MEAD. 

Mix  carefully  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  one  and  one-half  pounds 
of  light  brown  sugar;  add  to  it  one-half  pint  of  good  New  Orleans  molas- 
ses and  one-eighth  of  a  pound  of  tartaric  acid.  Stir  well  and  when  cool 
strain  into  a  granite  pitcher.  When  cool  add  a  small  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  essence  of  sassafras.  Put  in  bottles,  cork  tightly  with  new  corks  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place.  To  make  a  glass  of  sassafras  mead  for  drinking, 
put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  the  mead  into  a  tumbler  one-half  full  of  ice- 
water,  stir  into  it  one-half  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda  and  it  will 
immediately  foam  to  the  top.  The  essence  of  sassafras  and  tartaric  acid 
can  be  obtained  at  the  druggist's.  D.  Z.  Brooks. 

FRUIT  NECTAR. 

Remove  the  rind  of  three  lemons,  and  put  it  in  an  earthenware  jar 
with  one  pound  of  chopped  raisins  and  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar. 
Pour  over  these  ingredients  two  gallons  of  boiling  water,  let  the  liquid 
stand  until  cold,  then  add  the  strained  juice  of  the  lemons  and  leave  it  in 
a  cool  place  for  a  week,  stirring  it  every  day.  Strain  it  through  a  jelly 
bag  until  quite  clear,  and  bottle.  A.  Carl. 

WELSH  NECTAR. 

Cut  the  peel  of  three  lemons  very  thin  and  put  the  rind  into  a  jar  with 
the  strained  juice,  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  and  one  pound  of  raisins 
stoned  and  chopped  small.  Pour  upon  them  two  gallons  of  water  which 
has  been  boiled  and  allowed  to  cool.  Stir  daily  for  five  days,  strain 
through  a  jelly  bag,  bottle,  and  tie  down  the  cork.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  in 
ten  days  or  a  fortnight.  A.  Durm. 


374  COFFEE,   TEA,   COCOA  AND  BEVERAGES. 

CHERRY  NECTAR. 

Take  two  quarts  of  cherries,  stone  and  boil  for  one-half  hour  in  a 
quart  of  water.  Strain  and  boil  the  juice  with  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  juice  for  ten  minutes;  then  put  in  the  cherries 'and  boil  for  twenty 
minutes  more.     Serve  ice  cold.  Lida  M.  Smith. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB~No.  2. 

One  quart  of  red  or  black  raspberry  juice,  one-half  pound  of  loaf 
sugar.  Dissolve,  then  add  one  pint  of  Jamaica  rum.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  bottle.  To  make  a  glassful  of  raspberry  shrub  use  one  tablespoonful 
of  the  shrub,  the  same  of  sugar,  and  fill  glass  with  ice-water.       A.  F.  T. 

VINEGARS. 

For  vinegars  of  all  kinds  see  Department  "Pickles,  Sauces  for  Meats,  Relishes,"  Etc. 

HIRE'S  ROOT-BEER. 

A  cooling,  non-intoxicating  and  healthful  drink  for  summer  is  Hire's 
Root-Beer.  Procure  a  bottle  of  Hire's  root-beer  extract  of  your  grocer 
and  follow  directions  for  making.     See  label  on  bottle. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE. 

Gather  the  fruit  when  ripe,  on  a  dry  day.  Mash  the  berries.  Put  into 
a  vessel,  with  the  head  out,  and  a  tap  fitted  near  the  bottom;  pour  on  boil- 
ing water,  one  quart  to  each  gallon  of  berries.  Let  them  stand  covered 
till  the  pulp  rises  to  the  top  and  forms  a  crust — about  thirty-six  hours. 
Then  draw  off  the  fluid  into  another  vessel,  and  add  two  pounds  of  sugar 
to  each  gallon;  mix  well  and  put  it  into  a  crock  to  work  ten  days.  When 
the  working  has  ceased,  bung  it  down;  after  six  to  twelve  months  bottle. 

W.  T.  M. 
CURRANT  WINE. 

Gather  the  currants  when  ripe,  squeeze  out  the  juice;  to  one  gallon 
of  the  juice  put  two  gallons  of  cold  water  and  two  spoonfuls  of  yeast;  let 
ferment  twenty-four  hours;  strain,  and  to  every  gallon  of  liquor  add  four 
pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  stir  it  well  together,  put  it  in  a  good  cask;  close  up 
well  and  let  stand  till  it  looks  clear,  then  bottle.  D.  E.  P. 


SPICED  FRUITS 


JELLIES  AND  JAMS 


FOR  THE  promotion  of  health  and  the  saving  of  labor  fruits 
for  desserts  far  surpass  pies  and  puddings.  It  is  needless  to 
say  that  fruits  for  preserving  should  be  sound  and  the  kettles  used  should 
be  of  granite  or  porcelain  lined  and  the  spoons  used  for  stirring  should  be 
of  granite  or  wood.  The  amount  of  sugar  required  depends  upon  cir- 
cumstances. Our  grandmothers  used  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of 
fruit — but  then  they  used,  too,  the  old-fashioned  stone  crock  or  open  jar 
in  which  to  store  the  fruit.  Xow.  most  preserves  are  put  in  sealed  cans 
and  only  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  is  required  to  preserve  fruit 
perfectly.  Keep  in  a  dark  dry  closet.  If  the  closet  is  cool  so  much  the 
better  but  always  have  it  dry. 

TO  CLARIFY  SUGAR. 

To  clarify  sugar  dissolve  sugar  in  water  in  the  proportion  of  one 
pound  of  sugar  in  a  cupful  of  water;  add  to  it  the  white  of  an  egg  and 
beat,  put  into  a  preserving  kettle  on  the  fire  and  stir  with  a  granite  spoon. 
When  it  boils  up  put  in  a  little  cold  water;  let  boil  again,  take  off  and 
remove  the  scum;  repeat  until  it  is  clear.  J.  T.  C. 

CRAB  APPLES  PRESERVED. 

Select  good  sound  ones  and  take  the  blows  off  the  ends  but  leave  on 
the  stems.  Then  wash  them  and  put  into  preserving  kettle  with  plenty 
of  water  to  cover.  When  boiling  push  them  gently  down  so  that  they 
may  be  under  the  water  all  the  time.  When  skin  begins  to  crack,  skim 
them  out  on  a  dish.  Allow  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  juice  letting  boil  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  skimming  till  clear. 
Then  return  the  fruit  to  the  juice,  part  at  a  time,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Then  lift  out  the  apples  again  on  a  dish  and  add  the  rest  of  the  fruit  to 
the  juice,  boiling  them  the  same  length  of  time.  Fill  cans  with  apples 
to  the  top.  Boil  down  the  juice  that  is  left  in  the  kettle  about  ten  min- 
utes and  pour  it  over  the  fruit  in  the  jars.     Fasten  up  tight  and  set  away. 

3:5 


:^,^r,  PRESERl'ES.   SPICED  FRUITS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

If  some  of  the  fruit  be  grubby,  cut  out  the  grubs  taking  off  stems  and  cook 
them  in  water  enough  to  boil  Hke  apple  sauce.  Strain  through  a  colander 
and  put  all  back  with  juice  in  the  kettle,  adding  sugar,  pound  for  pound, 
cooking  fifteen  minutes  and  skimming  constantly.  Put  the  fruit  in  a  jar 
and  it  makes  a  nice  marmalade.  Miss  Clara  White. 

QUINCE  PRESERVES. 

Pare  and  core  the  fruit  and  boil  till  very  tender.  Make  a  syrup  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  the  fruit  and  after  removing  all  the 
scum  boil  the  quinces  in  this  syrup  for  one-half  hour. 

Mrs.  K.  Knowles. 

QUINCE  AND  APPLE  PRESERVE. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  as  many  sour  apples  as  desired  to  preserve  in 
this  manner;  pare,  core  and  separate  into  eighths  one-fourth  as  may 
quinces.  Make  a  syrup  of  one  quart  of  water  and  three-fourths  as  much 
sugar  in  pounds  as  there  are  apples  and  quinces  combined.  Drop  in  the 
quinces  first,  let  them  cook  thirty  minutes,  then  add  the  apples  and  cook 
all  together  until  tender  and  well  preserved.     Seal.  W.  T.  J. 

CANDIED  QUINCE5. 

Select  firm  quinces,  rub  them  over  with  a  damp  cloth,  peel,  core  and 
cut  each  one  into  several  pieces.  The  peels  and  cores  should  be  tied  in  a 
muslin  bag  and  boiled  with  the  quinces.  Place  all  in  a  preserving  kettle 
on  the  stove,  pour  over  them  enough  boiling  water  to  nearly  cover,  and  allow 
them  to  boil  slowly  until  they  are  tender;  then  drain  off  the  water  and  let 
cool.  Weigh  the  quinces  and  allow  an  equal  weight  of  sugar.  When 
cold  put  them  into  glass  jars  in  alternate  layers,  first  sugar,  then  quinces, 
and  so  on,  and  seal.  The  juice  in  which  they  are  boiled  should  be  saved; 
add  to  it  its  weight  in  sugar  and  make  into  jelly.  Blanche. 

PINEAPPLE  PRESERVES. 

To  every  pound  of  fruit,  weighed  after  being  pared,  allow  one  pound 
of  loaf  sugar  and  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  water.  The  pines  should  be 
perfectly  sound,  but  ripe.  Cut  them  into  rather  thick  slices,  as  the  fruit 
shrinks  in  boiling;  pare  off  the  rind  carefully,  that  none  of  the  pine  be 
wasted,  and  in  doing  so  notch  it  in  and  out,  as  the  rind  cannot  be 
smoothly  cut'  without  great  care.  Dissolve  a  portion  of  the  sugar  in  a 
preserving  pan  with  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  water;  when  this  is  melted, 
gradually  add  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  forms  a  clear 


PRESERVES,  SPICED  FRUPPS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS.  377 

syrup,  skimming  well.  As  soon  as  this  is  done  put  in  the  pieces  of  pine 
and  boil  well  for  one-half  hour,  or  until  it  looks  very  transparent.  Put  it 
into  pots,  cover  down  when  cold  and  store  away  in  a  dry  place. 

Mrs.  S.  Ament. 
CITRON  PRESERVE. 

Peel  and  seed  with  great  care.  Cut  into  pieces  about  three  to  four 
inches  in  size.  Place  citron  over  the  fire  in  preserving  kettle,  after  cover- 
ing it  with  water.  Cook  until  it  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw.  Skim  it  out 
upon  a  platter  and  add  sugar  in  proportion  of  one  and  one-half  pounds  to 
each  pint  of  juice.  (Two  full  coffee-cupfuls  of  sugar  equal  one  pound.) 
Cook  this  juice  until  the  scum  quits  rising.  Then  put  citron  back  and  boil 
till  clear,  over  one  hour.  Take  citron  out  and  boil  clear  juice  fifteen 
minutes.  Slice  into  the  juice  three  lemons  to  each  four  quarts  of  citron, 
boiling  till  the  time  is  up:  fifteen  minutes.  Use  lemon  peel  and  juice 
removing  only  the  seeds.  When  you  turn  citron  into  the  bottles  make 
them  half  full  of  fruit  and  fill  them  up  with  the  hot  juice,  fastening  them 
up  while  hot.  Put  a  spoon  into  each  jar  while  putting  in  fruit  and  set  a 
napkin  wet  in  cold  water  under  the  jars  while  filling. 

Annie  R.  White. 
PRESERVED  PEAR5. 

If  the  seckle  pear  can  be  obtained  select  that  on  account  of  its  size 
and  flavor  but  if  not  to  be  had  then  any  other  pear  will  answer.  Pare  off 
the  peeling  with  a  thin  knife  so  as  not  to  waste  the  fruit.  If  a  seckle  leave 
it  whole;  if  another  variety,  separate  it  in  halves.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar 
and  water,  using  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of 
fruit  to  be  preserved  and  one  cupful  of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  Drop 
in  the  fruit  and  carefully  cook.  Just  before  taking  from  the  stove  drop 
in  a  few  whole  cloves,  about  two  to  every  pear.  Cloves  are  a  great  addi- 
tion as  they  help  bring  out  the  flavor  of  the  pear.  Mrs.  R.  A. 

TO  PRESERVE  WATERMELON  RIND. 

Same  as  Citron. 

TO  PRESERVE  BERRIES  WHOLE. 

Take  the  fruit  when  not  over-ripe,  pick  over  carefully,  wash  and  put  in 
glass  jars,  filling  each  one  about  three-fburths  full.  Make  a  syrup  of  a 
pound  of  granulated  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  water  for  every  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  of  fruit  and  let  it  boil  slowly  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  syrup  into 
the  jars  over  the  berries,  filling  them  up  to  the  top;  then  set  the  jars  in  a 
boiler  of  cold  water  with   a  generous  amount  of  straw  or  excelsior  in  the 


378  PRESERVES,  SPICED  FRUITS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

bottom  of  the  boiler  to  prevent  the  cans  from  falling  against  each  other. 
Place  on  the  stove  and  let  the  water  boil  until  the  fruit  becomes  scalding 
hot;  add  more  syrup  as  the  fruit  settles.  Now  take  out  of  the  cans  and 
seal  tight.     If  these  directions  are  followed  the  fruit  will  keep  for  years. 

Mrs.  a.  Peters. 
PRESERVED  CHERRIES. 

Select  the  large  cherries,  remove  the  stems  and  stone  them  carefully. 
To  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  one  pound  of  cherries.  Put  fruit  in  granite 
pan  and  pour  over  them  the  sugar.  Stir  up  and  let  stand  over  night  to 
candy.  In  the  morning  put  all  into  the  preserving  pan,  place  on  the  stove 
and  boil  gently  until  the  cherries  look  clear,  skimming  off  the  scum  as  it 
rises.  When  the  cherries  have  become  quite  clear,  remove  the  pan  from 
the  stove  and  seal.     Keep  in  dry  dark  closet.         Theresa  Harrington. 

PRESERVED  EGG  PLUHS. 

Take  two  pounds  of  sugar  for  every  three  pounds  of  plums;  wash  the 
plums  and  drain;  put  the  sugar  on  a  slow  fire  in  the  preserving  kettle, 
with  as  much  water  as  it  will  melt  and  let  simmer  slowly;  prick  each  plum 
with  a  needle  and  place  in  cans  and  in  boiler  of  cold  water  (see  How  to 
Preserve  Berries  Whole),  pour  over  the  syrup  and  cook  till  the  skins 
break  and  you  feel  they  are  thoroughly  heated.  As  they  settle  add  more 
syrup.     Seal  while  hot.  D.  Hall. 

CALIFORNIA  PRESERVED  PRUNES. 

Wash  four  pounds  of  prunes  and  place  in  a  granite  pan  over  the  fire 
with  enough  water  to  cover;  set  the  pan  over  a  slow  fire  and  cook  slowly 
until  the  fruit  is  tender,  then  remove,  and  pass  through  a  sieve.  To  each 
pound  of  the  pulp  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  make  a  syrup 
of  the  sugar  with  a  little  water  and  add  the  pulp.  Boil  for  fifteen  min- 
utes.   Seal.  Minerva  Allison. 

PRESERVED  NECTARINES. 

(Florida  Recipe.) 

Pare,  halve,  stone  and  weigh  the  nectarines.  Steam  till  tender. 
Make  a  syrup  of  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of 
fruit.  Put  sugar  in  granite  pan,  "add  just  enough  water  to  dissolve  it  and 
let  slowly  come  to  a  boil.  Add  the  fruit.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  with 
wooden  spoon  turn  over  the  fruit.  Put  on  top  of  stove  and  simmer  slowly 
two  hours.  Set  away  to  cool.  Next  day  heat  up  syrup  again  to  boiling 
point,  add  the  fruit  and  when  thoroughly  heated  seal.  Julia  J. 


PRESERVES.  SPICED  FRUITS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS.  379 

PRESERVED  PEACHES. 

Select  the  yellow  red-cheeked  ones  if  possible  (skin  same  as  tomatoes, 
by  pouring  on  boiling  water  then  thrusting  them  in  cold  water  and  sep- 
arate in  halves).  Proceed  as  for  preserved  cherries  only  using  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Minerva  Goss. 

SUN  PRESERVED  GOOSEBERRIES. 

Put  into  a  quart  pan  six  pounds  of  gooseberries  with  two  pounds  of 
sugar  sprinkled  over  them  and  set  the  pan  on  the  fire.  Stir  carefully; 
when  the  juice  commences  to  come  out  take  off  the  pan.  Repeat  this 
process  for  two  days  more;  the  second  and  third  day  add  one  pound  of 
sugar,  then  take  the  gooseberries  out  of  the  syrup.  Place  on  platters, 
boil  the  syrup  till  thick  and  pour  over  the  fruit;  place  them  to  dry  in  the 
sun.     In  two  days  seal.  Miss   C. 

PRESERVED  RED  GOOSEBERRIES. 

They  must  not  be  picked  until  they  are  fully  ripe.  For  each  quart  of 
the  fruit  take  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  one  gill  of  water.  Boil 
together  until  a  thick  syrup,  then  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  gently  for  fif- 
teen minutes.  Next  put  them  into  small  stone  jars.  When  cold,  cover 
them  close.     Keep  them  for  making  tarts  or  pies.  Candace  G. 

FIG  CONSERVE. 

Figs  preserved  with  lemon  juice  and  ginger,  pickled  and  spiced,  make 
a  delicious  conserve.  If  the  dried  fruit  is  used  the  figs  should  be  steamed 
first.  F.  E.  P. 

TOMATO  PRESERVES. 

Take  as  many  sound  red  or  yellow,  plum-shaped  tomatoes  as  desired 

to  preserve,  and  weigh  them.     Wash  and   prick  with  a  needle  to  prevent 

their  bursting.     Put  the  same  number  of  pounds  of  sugar  as  of  tomatoes 

over  them.      Let  them  stand  over  night.      Next   morning  add  enough 

water  to  cover  them.      Boil  slowly  until  the  fruit  is  clear  and  syrup  is 

almost  jellied.     Before  taking  up  add  to  each  pound  one  lemon  sliced. 

Leone  Dickerson. 
TOMATO  FIGS. 

Select  small-sized,  ripe  tomatoes,  either  the  red  or  yellow;  scald  and 
peal.  To  nine  pounds  of  tomatoes  add  four  pounds  of  brown  sugar;  cook 
slowly  in  the  sugar  without  water  till  they  are  thoroughly  preserved;  then 
take  out,  spread  on  plates  and  dry  in  the  sun.  Pack  them  in  layers  with 
sugar  sprinkled  between.  Tillie  Barker. 


380  PRESERVES,  SPICED  ERC//TS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

GINGER  PEARS. 

Six  pounds  of  sugar,  eight  pounds  of  pears  pared,  one  pint  of  water, 
one-eighth  of  a  pound  of  preserved  ginger,  grated  peels  of  two  lemons 
with  the  juice  of  one.     Boil  four  hours.  R.  Mattison. 

PRESERVED  PIPPINS. 

Twelve  pounds  of  apples  pared,  cored  and  quartered,  six  pounds  of 
sugar,  one  quart  of  water;  make  syrup  of  sugar  and  water;  drop  apples 
in  this  syrup  and  cook  until  tender;  cloves  and  lemon  peel  may  be  added; 
stew  till  clear  and  seal.  Amy  Collins. 

CONSERVE  OF  ROSES. 

Gather  each  morning  the  roses  which  blossomed  the  day  before,  and 
after  picking  out  the  insects,  stems,  and  calixes,  throw  the  leaves  into  a 
jar  with  layers  of  powdered  loaf  or  crushed  sugar;  do  this  while  the  roses 
last,  crowd  the  jar  full,  and  cover  it  very  close.  A  very  nice  article  is 
thus  made  to  put  into  cakes,  puddings,  etc.  H.  E.  S. 

SUN  PRESERVED  STRAWBERRIES. 

(Excellent.) 

For  every  pound  of  fruit  use  a  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  berries  with 
sugar  over  the  fire  in  a  granite  kettle,  bring  to  a  boil  slowly.  Turn  over 
with  wooden  spoon.  Cook  one  hour  carefully.  Take  them  out  carefully 
with  a  skimmer.  Put  on  platters;  boil  the  juice  a  few  minutes  longer  and 
pour  over  the  fruit.  Put  in  sun  to  dry,  cover  with  netting  during  day  and 
oilcloth  at  night.     In  a  couple  of  days  they  will  be  ready  to  seal. 

lONE. 
STRAWBERRIES   PRESERVED  IN  THE  USUAL  WAV. 

Follow  directions  as  above,  only  instead  of  putting  in  sun  to  dry  seal 
while  hot.  Ione. 

PRESERVED  GRAPES. 

Select  grapes  that  are  fresh,  ripe  and  sound.  Pick  off  the  stalks  and 
weigh.  To  every  pound  of  grapes  allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 
Squeeze  the  pulp  out  of  the  skins  in  one  bowl,  putting  the  skins  into 
another.  Put  the  pulp  into  a  granite  pan  and  heat  sufficiently  so  as  to 
pass  through  a  sieve,  rejecting  the  stones;  make  syrup  of  the  sugar  adding 
just  enough  water  to  dissolve  it.  Put  the  pulp  of  the  grapes  into  it  and 
boil  for  five  minutes,  then  let  it  cool,  and  seal.  Alice  Harper. 


PRESERVES,  SPICED  FRUITS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS.  381 

PRESERVED  LEMONS. 

Select  moderately  thick-skinned  lemons,  cut  into  halves  and  with  a 
glass  lemon-squeezer  abstract  the  juice  and  save.  Scrape  out  all  the  pulp 
throwing  it  away.  Slice  the  peels  in  circles.  Put  them  in  cold  water, 
leaving  them  for  a  day,  changing  the  water  four  times,  then  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  more  cold  water  and  boil  slowly  until  tender.  Pre- 
pare a  syrup,  using  about  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  water  to 
each  pound  of  peel,  adding  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  every  pound  of  fruit. 
Skim  and  let  cool.     Now  put  in  the  peels  and  boil  for  one-half  hour.     Seal. 

Minnie  Rush. 

CURRANT  COnPOTE  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

Pick  red  currants  from  their  stems,  wash,  drain  and  put  one-half  of 
them  into  a  preserve  dish.  Press  out  the  juice  from  the  other  one-half; 
mix  in  as  much  sugar  as  will  be  required  to  make  a  syrup,  keeping  it  hot 
till  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  When  slightly  cooled  stir  in  the  whole  cur- 
rants.    Heat  and  seal.  Caterer. 

PRESERVED  ORANQE  PEEL. 

Weigh  the  fruit  before  paring  and  allow  sugar,  pound  for  pound. 
Peel  the  oranges  very  carefully  and  cut  the  rind  into  narrow  shreds. 
Boil  until  tender,  changing  the  water  twice  and  filling  up  with  hot  from 
the  kettle.  Squeeze  the  strained  juice  of  the  orange  over  the  sugar.  Let 
this  heat  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  shreds  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Lemons 
can  be  done  in  the  same  manner.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Hayden. 

LEMON  BUTTER. 

Three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs  and  yolk  of  one,  beaten; 
one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  butter;  grate  the  yellow  off  of  four  lemons; 
then  squeeze  in  the  juice  and  cook  twenty  minutes  in  double  boiler.  Put 
in  jar.  Mina  Parish. 

APPLE    BUTTER. 

Fill  a  preserving  pan  with  apples  that  have  been  peeled,  quartered 
and  cored.  Add  a  slight  flavoring  of  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon. 
Cover  with  good  cider,  and  boil  slowly,  stirring  from  time  to  time  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  the  whole  becomes  a  dark-brown  jam,  with  only  juice 
sufficient  to  keep  it  soft  and  buttery.  Remove  it  from  the  fire  and  place 
in  well-covered  jars  and  in  a  few  weeks  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  It  makes 
an  excellent  substitute  for  butter  and  is  very  wholesome  for  children. 

Mrs.  Henry  Specht. 


382  PRESERVES,  SPICED  FRUITS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

PLUM  BUTTER. 

Select  sound  plums,  scald  till  they  crack  open.  When  cool  put 
through  a  colander;  measure  the  pulp  and  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  piilp.  Season  with  any  spice  desired.  Boil  well 
two  hours.  A.  Schemer. 

PEACH  BUTTER. 

Pare  ripe  peaches,  remove  stones  and  put  peaches  in  a  kettle  with  suffi- 
cient water  to  boil  them  soft,  then  put  through  a  colander.  To  each  quart 
of  pulp  add  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil  very 
slowly  one  hour.  Stir  often  so  they  will  not  burn.  When  done  season 
slightly  with  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon.  T.  Benedict. 

CHERRY  BUTTER. 

(Fine.) 

Wash  and  stem  the  cherries,  boil  until  soft,  then  rub  through  a 
colander;  to  each  pint  of  pulp  add  a  pint  of  sugar;  boil  until  thick;  can  or 
keep  in  closely  covered  jars.  Mrs.  C.  Preston. 

CURRANT  SYRUP. 

(For  Flavoring  and  Coloring.) 

Place  the  required  quantity  of  fresh,  ripe,  red  currants  in  a  granite 
bowl  and  mash  them  with  a  wooden  masher;  cover  the  bowl  and  let  stand 
for  three  hours.  Strain  through  a  woolen  bag,  measure  juice  and  put  into 
a  granite  boiler  with  a  pint  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Boil  until 
reduced  to  a  clear  syrup  keeping  it  well  skimmed;  then  take  off  the  fire 
and  leave  until  cold.  Pour  into  small  bottles  and  pour  on  top  of  each 
bottle  a  little  oil,  to  preserve  it.  Put  bottles  in  an  upright  position  in  a 
dry  cupboard.  Minnie. 

RASPBERRY  SYRUP. 
(For  Flavoring  and  Coloring.) 

Put  as  many  quarts  of  raspberries  into  a  granite  saucepan  as  desired, 
press  gently,  sprinkle  with  little  sugar  and  let  remain  a  good  half  day. 
Pass  the  juice  through  a  muslin  bag,  measure,  and  pour  it  into  a  preserv- 
ing kettle  and  to  each  cupful  of  the  juice  add  four  ounces  of  sugar;  boil 
until  the  juice  commences  to  thicken,  skimming  frequently.  Let  cool  and 
then  put  into  bottles.  Cork  and  seal;  let  stand  in  a  dry  place  until 
wanted.  Alice  Yeomans. 

STRAWBERRY  SYRUP. 
(For  Flavoring  and  Coloring.) 

Put  five  quarts  of  clean  ripe  strawberries  into  a  bowl,  pour  over  them 
five  quarts  of  cold  water  in  which  two  ounces  of  tartaric  acid  have  been 
mixed   and  let  stand  over  night.     Strain  off  the  juice  through  a  muslin 


PRESERVES,  SPICED  FRUITS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS.  383 

bag  and  for  each  pint  use  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Boil  ten  minutes, 
skim  frequently  and  pour  the  syrup  into  bottles,  cork  and  dip  the  nozzle 
in  melted  paraffine.     Keep  in  a  dry  tight  cupboard.  Tillie  Cary. 

SYRUP  OF  LEMONS. 

(For  Flavoring.) 

Clarify  three  pounds  of  lump  sugar,  then  pour  into  this  syrup  while 
at  weak  candy  height  and  boiling,  the  juice  of  eighteen  lemons  and  the 
peel  of  three,  grated.  Boil  together  four  minutes,  strain  through  fine 
muslin  and  bottle.  When  it  is  cold,  cork  for  future  use.  This  syrup  is 
now  ready  for  lemonade,  punches,  ices,  jellies,  etc. 

Mrs.  Maria  Woodhouse. 

PRESERVED    FRUIT  JUICE. 

If  put  up  in  the  following  manner  the  juice  of  any  fruit  may  be  kept 
for  flavorings  by  putting  it  in  glass  cans  and  sealing  it.  Mash  the  fruit, 
strain  through  a  muslin  bag  and  press  so  as  to  extract  as  much  of  the  juice 
as  possible.  Put  it  in  a  pan  with  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar 
to  each  pint.  Fill  glass  cans  with  the  syrup,  cover  them  and  set  in  cold 
water  and  boil  for  one-half  hour.  Leave  the  jars  in  the  water  until  cool, 
then  seal.  Miss  J.  Woodhull. 

CURRANT  JAM. 

Wash,  stem  and  mash  red  or  white  currants.  Use  one  pound  of  sugar 
to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Put  the  fruit  and  one-fourth  of  the  sugar  into  a 
granite  kettle;  stir  and  when  it  boils  add  balance  of  sugar.  Let  it  boil  till 
very  thick.  Putting  in  only  a  little  sugar  at  a  time  prevents  the  currants 
from  becoming  hard.  Lettie  Sprague. 

DATE  JAn. 

To  every  pound  of  dates,  use  one-half  the  quantity  of  sugar  and  one 
cupful  of  water.  Remove  the  stones,  put  over  the  fire  and  cook  until 
thick.     Place  in  deep  glasses.     Stir  so  as  to  prevent  burning. 

Pearl  Weeks. 
ORANGE  JAn. 

Slice  one  dozen  oranges,  remove  seeds  and  let  stand  over  night  in 
three  quarts  of  water.     Add  six  pounds  of  sugar.     Boil  till  thick.     Seal. 

Miss  J.  C.  Higbie. 
RAISIN  JAM. 

Wash  and  seed  one  pound  of  raisins;  put  them  on  to  cook  with  one- 
half  pound  of  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  water.  Cook  until  thick.  Nutmeg 
may  be  added  if  desired.  .  May  Somers. 


384  PRESERVES,  SPICED  ERC/PfS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

JAM  OF  GREEN  GAGES. 

Put  ripe  green  gages  into  a  kettle  with  very  little  water  and  let  them 
stew  until  soft,  then  rub  them  through  a  sieve  or  colander,  and  to  every 
pint  of  pulp  put  one  pound  of  white  sugar  powdered  fine;  then  put  it  in  a 
preserving  kettle  over  the  fire,  stir  it  until  the  whole  is  of  the  consistency 
of  jelly,  then  take  it  off;  put  the  jam  into  small  jars  or  tumblers,  and  cover 
as  directed  for  jelly.     Any  sort  of  plums  may  be  done  in  this  manner. 

Mrs.  Sophia  Doty. 
STRAWBERRY  JAM. 

Mash  the  strawberries  and  for  each  cupful  of  berries  allow  a  cupful 
of  sugar.     Boil  one-half  hour  and  seal  in  jars.  Lizzie. 

FIG  JAH. 

Take  two  pounds  of  figs,  chop  fine  and  cook  with  one  pound  of  sugar 
and  two  cupfuls  of  water  until  thick;  place  in  glasses  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Grace  Carpenter. 
DAMSON  JAM. 

This  is  a  fine  jam  for  winter  use,  in  tarts,  roly-polys,  etc.  Gather  the 
fruit  on  a  dry,  hot  day.  Pick  over  with  great  care,  rejecting  all  that  is 
blemished.  Stone  the  fruit,  weigh  it,  and  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  loaf  sugar  to  every  pound  of  damsons.  Place  the  fruit  and  sugar  in 
preserving  kettle  (porcelain  lined).  Stir  gently  until  the  sugar  is  thor- 
oughly dissolved  and  carefully  skim.  After  it  commences  to  simmer  all 
over  alike  boil  it  one  hour.  Stir  it  continually,  as  it  sticks  and  burns 
quicker  than  most  fruits,  and  that  will  give  the  jam  a  bitter  flavor.  When 
the  jam  is  firm  and  the  juice  is  set,  it  is  done.  Remove  from  the  fire,  put 
into  small  jars,  cover  it  down,  when  quite  cold,  with  oiled  papers,  and 
store  it  away  in  a  dry  place.  Lottie  McPhelan. 

GREEN  RHUBARB  JAH. 

Take  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  green  rhubarb,  one  pound  of  loaf 
sugar,  the  thin  rind  of  one-half  of  a  large  lemon,  one-quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  bitter  almonds  and  a  little  ginger.  Wipe  the  rhubarb  quite  dry,  cut  it 
in  pieces  two  inches  long  and  put  it  into  a  preserving  pan  with  the  sugar 
broken  small;  the  rind  of  the  lemon  must  be  cut  very  fine  and  the 
almonds  blanched  and  divided.  Boil  the  whole  well  together,  stirring  and 
skimming  frequently,  and  when  nearly  done  stir  in  the  ginger.  Young 
rhubarb  will  take  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  but  if  old  it  must  be 
boiled  one  and  one-half  hours.  This  preserve  should  be  of  a  green  color 
and  will  be  found  a  very  good  substitute  for  greengage  jam,  resembling 
it  very  closely.  Fanny  Rice. 


PRESERVES,  SPICED  FRUITS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS.  385 

GRAPE  JAn. 

Pulp  the  grapes.  Put  pulps  on  over  the  fire;  use  no  water.  After 
they  begin  to  boil  let  them  continue  to  boil  gently  one-half  hour.  Then 
strain  them  through  a  fine  colander,  so  as  to  remove  allthe  seeds.  Then 
put  pulps  and  skins  into  the  kettle,  adding  two  pounds  of  sugar  to  each 
three  pounds  of  fruit.  Cook  this  one  hour,  skimming  constantly.  Then 
fill  the  jars  full,  as  for  citron,  never  forgetting  the  rubbers. 

Mary  Cordingly. 
RIPE  RHUBARB  JAM. 

Select  fresh  red  rhubarb.  The  color  red  shows  that  it  has  grown  in 
the  sun  and  is  much  finer;  cut  in  pieces  one  inch  long,  take  sugar  pound 
for  pound.  Cook  together  and  let  stand  all  night.  In  the  morning  pour 
off  the  syrup  and  boil  it  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Put  in  the  rhubarb 
and  heat.     Ready  for  use.  Alice  McCarty. 

Jellies. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  MOST  KINDS  OF  JELLY. 

Place  the  fruit,  currants,  grapes,  etc.,  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with  just 
enough  water  to  prevent  burning.  When  thoroughly  scalded  strain 
through  a  flannel  bag,  using  as  much  sugar  as  juice  by  measurement,  place 
juice  on  stove  alone  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  the  sugar  and  boil  ten 
minutes  longer.  Pour  into  small  dishes.  Cover  with  buttered  writing 
paper  and  tie  down  with  heavy  paper,  or  instead  of  the  buttered  paper 
melted  parafifine  may  be  used.  Caroline. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Select  sound,  red,  fine-flavored  apples  not  too  ripe;  wash,  wipe  and 
core;  place  in  a  granite  kettle  cover  with  water  and  let  cook  slowly  until 
the  apples  look  red.  Pour  into  a  muslin  bag  and  drain;  return  juice  to  a 
clean  kettle  and  boil  one-half  hour;  skim.  Now  measure  and  to  every 
pint  of  juice  allow  a  pound'of  sugar;  boil  quickly  for  ten  minutes.  Red 
apples  will  give  jelly  the  color  of  wine  while  that  from  light  fruit  will  be 
like  amber.  Margaret  McNolty. 

GREEN  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Select  grapes  that  are  just  beginning  to  turn.  Pick  off  the  stems 
and  wash  in  cold  water.  Now  add  one  cupful  of  water  to  nine  pounds  of 
fruit.     Stew  until  soft.     Strain  without  squeezing  through  a  muslin  bag. 


38G  PRESERVES,  SPICED  FRUPrS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

Return  to  fire,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  skim.     To  every  cupful  of  juice  add 
a  cupful  of  sugar;  boil  twenty  minutes;  pour  into  glasses. 

Mrs.  T.  Winchester. 
RIPE  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Take  ripe  (but  not  too  ripe)  grapes,  put  them  into  a  saucepan  and 
bruise  them  gently  until  the  juice  flows  freely.  Strain,  without  squeezing 
them,  two  or  three  times  through  muslin  and,  when  clear,  boil  the  juice 
rapidly  for  twenty  minutes.  Add  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
juice  and  boil  till  a  little  put  on  a  plate  will  set.  Put  the  jelly  into  jars 
and  cover  with  buttered  paper  and  afterwards  with  writing  paper. 

Lulu  Bailey. 
GREENING  JELLY. 

Take  greening  apples,  wash,  quarter  and  core,  but  do  not  pare  them. 
Cook  until  soft  with  one  tumblerful  of  water  in  a  granite  pan;  then  put 
the  apples  in  flannel  bag  and  suspend  over  earthen  dish  and  let  drain 
several  hours  but  do  not  squeeze.  To  one  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of 
sugar;  boil  twenty  minutes;  then  pour  into  jelly  glasses.    Mamie  Betts. 

ASTRAKHAN  JELLY. 

Fill  a  two-quart  granite  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  pared  and  sliced 
apples  and  sugar.  Bake  three  hours,  closely  covered.  This  is  delicious 
and  should  turn  out  a  solid  pink  jelly.  Miss  Lillie  Wheeler. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Do  not  pare  but  polish  quinces  smooth  with  a  flannel  cloth.  Cut  in 
small  pieces,  core  and  put  all  in  a  kettle.  Pour  over  cold  water  to  cover 
and  boil  until  soft.  Pour  all  into  a  flannel  bag  and  hang  up  to  drain  care- 
fully, pressing  occasionally  to  make  the  juice  run  more  freely.  To  one 
pint  of  the  juice  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes.     Pour  into  tumblers.  Elsie  Mackenzie. 

QUINCE  AND  APPLE  JELLY. 

Tart  apples  to  which  have  been  added  the  cores  and  paring  of  quinces 
make  a  delightful  jelly.     Make  as  apple  jelly.  Margaret  McNolty. 

RED  PEPPER  JELLY. 

Chop  ripe  red  peppers  and  place  in  a  granite  pan  and  set  in  a  kettle 
of  cold  water  over  a  hot  fire.  Let  boil  until  the  juice  is  entirely  extracted. 
To  every  pint  of  juice  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  and  boil  until  it  thickens. 
Put  in  small  tumblers.     Fine  for  cold  meats.  Lulu  Jenkins. 


\ 


PRESERVES,  SPICED  FRUPPS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS.  387 

ASPIC  JELLY. 

Put  a  knuckle-bone  of  veal,  a  knuckle-bone  of  ham,  a  calf's  foot,  four 
cloves,  stuck  into  one  large  onion,  one  large  carrot  and  a  bunch  of  savory 
herbs,  into  two  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  gently  until  it  is  reduced  rather 
more  than  one-half.  Strain  and  put  aside  to  cool.  Carefully  remove 
every  particle  of  fat  or  sediment,  and  place  the  jelly  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
glass  of  white  wine,  a  tablespoonful  of  best  cider  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs.  Keep  stirring  until  it  nearly  boils, 
which  may  be  known  by  its  becoming  white,  then  draw  it  to  the  side  of 
the  fire  and  simmer  gently  for  one-quarter  of  an  hour.  Put  on  the  cover, 
let  it  stand  to  settle,  and  strain  through  a  jelly  bag  two  or  three  times  if 
necessary,  until  it  is  quite  clear.  Put  it  into  a  mold  which  has  been 
soaked  in  cold  water.  Mrs.  Kate  Bullard. 

ICELAND  MOSS  JELLY  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Wash  four  ounces  of  Iceland  moss  in  warm  water  and  having  drained 
it  set  it  over  the  fire  in  a  quart  of  cold  water.  Stir  until  it  boils,  when  it 
should  be  covered  up  and  allowed  to  simmer  for  an  hour.  Add  four 
ounces  of  sugar,  a  gill  of  sherry,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  the  rind  of  one- 
half  of  a  lemon  and  the  white  of  an  egg  whisked  with  one-half  gill  of  cold 
water;  stir  the  jelly  until  it  boils  and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  This 
moss  is  efficacious  in  cases  of  debility  and  chest  complaints,  but  its  bitter 
taste  renders  it  disagreeable  to  some.  L.  Irish. 

ORANGE  JELLY. 

Use  the  juice  and  rind  of  two  oranges,  one-half  teacupful  of  sugar, 

enough  water  to  dissolve  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  gelatine.     Boil 

ten  minutes.     Spread  between  the  layers  and  frost  the  top  if  desired. 

Nannie. 
CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

Place  in  granite  saucepan  one  quart  of  cranberries  and  one  cupful  of 
water.  Cook  until  soft  and  turn  into  flannel  bag  and  let  drain  over  night. 
In  the  morning  measure  the  juice  and  allow  an  equal  measure  of  sugar. 
Boil  twenty  minutes  and  turn  into  glasses.  Miss  McPherson. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

Heat  and  strain  as  above.  To  each  pint  of  juice  allow  one  pint  of 
sugar.  Put  the  juice  and  sugar  into  a  granite  kettle,  place  over  the  fire 
and  boil  until  it  thickens,  when  a  little  is  poured  on  a  plate;  carefully 
remove  scum  as  it  rises,  pour  the  jelly  into  small  glasses,  cover  and  keep 
in  a  dry  place.  Amanda, 


388  PRESERVES,  SPICED  FRUITS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

PLUM  JELLY. 

(Wild  or  Cultivated.) 

Take  plums  not  too  ripe,  put  in  a  granite  pan  and  set  in  a  pan  of  water 
over  the  fire.  Let  the  water  boil  gently  till  all  the  juice  has  come  from 
the  fruit,  strain  through  a  flannel  bag  and  boil  with  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar  twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  Riley  Carter. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Currants  for  jelly  should  not  be  over  ripe.  Put  them  into  a  granite 
pan  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  over  the  fire;  keep  the  water  boiling 
until  the  currants  are  all  broken.  Then  drain.  To  each  pint  of  juice  allow 
one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  about  twenty  minutes.  Pour  into  jelly  glasses 
and  seal  when  cool.  Miss  R.  P.  Perry. 

CRAB=APPLE   JELLY. 

Select  juicy  apples.  Mealy  ones  are  no  good.  Wash  and  quarter  and 
put  into  a  preserving  kettle  over  the  fire  with  a  teacupful  of  water.  If 
necessary  add  more  water  as  it  evaporates.  When  boiled  to  a  pulp  strain 
the  apples  through  a  flannel  bag,  then  proceed  as  for  other  jelly. 

F.  E.  C. 
PEACH  JELLY. 

Pare  the  peaches,  remove  about  one-half  the  pits.  Place  in  a  kettle 
with  enough  water  to  cover.  Stir  until  the  fruit  is  well  cooked,  then 
strain,  and  to  every  pint  of  the  juice  add  the  juice  of  one-half  of  a  lemon; 
measure  again,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Boil  and 
put  up  in  the  usual  way.  Tillie  Buckman. 

ORANGE   JELLY. 

Grate  the  rind  of  six  oranges  and  three  lemons  into  a  granite  kettle. 
Now  squeeze  in  the  juice,  add  one  cupful  of  water  and  one-half  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice;  boil  all  together  until  a  rich  syrup  is  formed. 
Have  ready  one  ounce  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  now 
add  the  syrup,  strain  the  jelly  and  pour  into  glasses.  Mary  T. 


Marnidwlades. 

RHUBARB  MARMALADE. 

To  every  two  pounds  of  rhubarb  add  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of 
sugar,  and  one  lemon  cut  into  small  pieces.  Boil  well  together  until 
quite  thick.     Put  in  glasses  and  cover  like  jelly.  W.  T.  M. 


PRESERVES,  SPICED  ERUPPS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS.  389 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Cut  two  dozen  oranges  in  halves,  crosswise.  With  a  glass  lemon- 
squeezer  extract  the  juice.  Dig  out  the  pulp  and  seeds,  throwing  them 
away.  Soak  the  peelings  over  night  in  salt  and  water.  In  the  morning 
rinse  and  boil  peelings  in  clear  water  until  tender,  then  chop  and  add 
juice.  Weigh  and  add  equal  quantity  of  sugar.  Let  boil  thirty  minutes. 
Put  in  jelly  tumblers  and  cover  as  you  do  jelly.  Hilda. 

TOMATO  MARflALADE. 

Remove  the  skins  from  a  peck  of  tomatoes,  slicing  them  as  for  the 
table.  Put  them  into  a  kettle,  with  a  pint  of  sugar,  and  spice  to  taste. 
Cook  slowly  till  they  are  quite  thick.  Put  them  in  a  jar  and  pour  over  a 
little  vinegar.     This  is  a  nice  relish  with  meat.  Mrs.  Jane  Hubbard. 

LEMON   riARMALADE. 

Peel  as  many  lemons  as  you  wish  and  take  out  every  seed.  Boil  the 
peel  until  very  soft,  add  juice  and  pulp,  with  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  lemons.     Boil  until  thick  and  bottle.  Mrs.  Parker. 

GRAPE  MARMALADE. 

Take  sound  grapes,  heat  and  remove  the  seeds,  then  measure,  and 
allow  measure  for  measure  of  fruit  and  sugar.  Place  all  together  in  a 
preserving  kettle  and  boil  slowly  twenty-five  minutes;  add  the  juice  of  one 
lemon  to  every  quart  of  fruit.     Set  away  in  jelly  glasses. 

C.  Marion  Tulley. 
ORANGE  riARMALADE— No.  2. 

This  delicious  preserve,  which  requires  the  greatest  care  in  prepara- 
tion, is  made  chiefly  of  sweet  oranges,  when  they  are  plentiful  and  in  the 
best  condition.  Pare  the  outer  rind  from  four  oranges  for  every  dozen 
pulped,  and  cut  the  rind  up  into  small  chips;  scoop  out  the  pulp,  free  from 
seeds,  and  the  white  inner  skin,  weigh  the  pulp  and  rind  together  before 
you  put  them  into  the  preserving  pan  and  have  ready  heated  equal 
weight  of  loaf  sugar;  let  the  pulp  and  peel  boil  one-half  hour,  or  till  the 
chips  are  tender,  then  add  the  sugar  and  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer; 
then  fill  the  marmalade  pots.  Mrs.  D.  Day. 

APRICOT  MARriALADE. 

Peel,  quarter  and  stone  four  pounds  of  ripe  apricots  and  put  them 
into  a  preserving  pan  with  neither  water  nor  sugar;  boil  gently,  stirring 
continually,  until  the  fruit  is  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Then  add  three  pounds 
of  sugar,  and  a  few  of  the  kernels  blanched  and  halved,  and  boil  once 


390  PRESERlliS,    SPICED  FRUITS,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

more.  Put  into  jars,  cover  the  fruit  with  an  oiled  paper  and  fasten  over 
each  jar  a  piece  of  thin  paper  dipped  in  gum  water.  When  dry  it  will  be 
light  and  hard.     It  should  boil  with  the  sugar,  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  a.  Place. 
ASTRAKHAN  flARMALADE. 

Peel  one  dozen  apples  into  small  bits;  put  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, with  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon,  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  one-fourth  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  and  one-half  cupful  of  water.  Cover  and  cook  for  twenty- 
five  minutes,  watching  that  it  does  not  burn;  when  dry  take  out  the  cinna- 
mon and  lemon  peel  and  beat  thoroughly  with  a  spoon  to  have  it  smooth, 
doing  this  on  the  hot  fire  so  the  apples  thicken  more  and  more  until  per- 
fectly firm.     Pour  into  glasses  and  cover.  Ione. 

MIXED  MARMALADE. 

(Unsurpassed.) 

Take  equal  quantities  of  white  apples,  yellow  pears  and  white  plums; 
pare  and  cut  in  small  bits,  stew  in  a  little  water  till  tender,  then  strain 
through  a  hair  sieve.  Now  weigh  the  pulp  and  add  to  it,  its  own  weight  in 
sugar.  Put  on  the  stove  and  cook  carefully  three  hours  in  a  thick-lined 
granite  kettle.  Stir  often  the  first  two  hours  and  continually  the  last 
hour.  It  is  hard  to  make  because  it  is  easily  burned  but  it  always  pays  for 
the  trouble.  When  thick  turn  into  shallow  pans  and  tie  down.  When 
desired  for  use  slice  off  in  slices  and  put  on  plate  like  cheese.         Hilda. 

SPICED    PLUMS. 

Four  pounds  of  plums,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  each 
of  cloves,  cinnamon,  mace  and  allspice;  stone  the  plums,  then  put  all 
ingredients  into  a  preserving  kettle;  cover  with  vinegar;  boil  until  tender. 

Mrs.  Leone  Hall. 
SPICED  PEACHES. 

To  nine  pounds  of  peaches  add  five  pounds  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of 
vinegar.  Stick  one  clove  into  each  peach,  prick  with  a  fork  and  stew 
until  tender.  Lay  in  a  jar  and  pour  over  them  the  boiling  syrup.  Let 
them  stand  twenty-four  hours,  pour  off  the  syrup,  scald  and  pour  again 
over  the  fruit.     Seal  in  cans.  Amy  Curtis. 

SPICED  TOMATOES. 

Take  sound,  ripe  tomatoes;  peel  them;  cut  them  through  the  center 
across  the  cells;  remove  the  seeds  with  a  sharp-pointed  knife  into  one  dish 
and  put  the  fieshy  halves  into  a  colander  cells  down,  to  drain.     For  twelve 


PRESERVES,  SPICED  FRUITS,  JELLIES  AND   JAMS.  391 

pounds  of  prepared  fruit,  put  into  a  porcelain  kettle  one  quart  of  best 
cider  vinegar,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  ounce  each  of  whole 
cloves,  whole  allspice  and  broken  cinnamon.  Put  in  also  the  juice  drained 
from  the  tomatoes  and  as  much  of  the  pulp  as  may  be  separated  from  the 
seeds  through  a  fine  sieve.  Let  them  come  to  a  boil;  then  add  all,  or  all 
by  parts,  of  the  tomatoes — according  to  the  size  of  the  kettle — and  let 
them  boil  just  five  minutes.  Skim  them  out  into  a  common  stone  crock, 
then  boil  the  syrup  down  to  a  richness  and  turn  it  on  the  fruit  in  the 
crock.  Let  it  cool,  and  set  it  away  for  use.  It  will  be  very  good,  but  not 
so  nice,  without  removing  the  seeds,  which  is  the  most  troublesome  part 
of  the  work.  Mrs.  M.  Grant. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

Wash  and  pick  five  pounds  of  red  currants,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
allspice,  three  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  one  pint  of  cider  vinegar  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  cloves  and  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon. 
Stew  gently  for  three  hours.  R.  Eaton. 

SPICED   GOOSEBERRIES. 

Four  quarts  of  gooseberries,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  pint  of 
cider  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nut- 
meg.    Boil  rather  slowly  until  fruit  is  thoroughly  cooked.     Seal. 

C.  M.  M. 


c 


ANNED  FRUITS  ^  ^ 

and  VEGETABLES 


THERE  are  many  methods  to  pursue  in  canning  fruit.  The  main 
point  is  to  see  that  the  fruit  is  sound  and  of  a  good  flavor;  that  the 
cans  are  sweet  and  the  rubbers  neither  dry  nor  brittle  and  finally  that  the 
tops  are  screwed  down  air-tight.  A  good  way  to  test  the  latter  is  to  turn 
the  can  after  it  is  filled  bottom-side  up  to  cool.  If  no  juice  escapes,  you 
can  feel  sure  that  it  is  air-tight. 

A-i  METHOD  OF  CANNING  FRUIT. 

I  give  herewith  the  best  method  I  have  in  my  long  experience  ever 
known  in  canning  fruit.  It  is  not  a  new  method  but  the  "tried  and  not 
found  wanting,"  is  the  best  guide  to  follow,  whether  in  canning  fruit  or  in 
doing  anything  else  in  life.  Make  a  syrup  of  one-half  pound  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  one-half  cupful  of  water  for  every  pound  of  fruit  (less  sugar 
may  be  used,  if  desired).  Put  the  sugar  in  a  granite  kettle,  poiir  on  the 
water  and  let  it  dissolve.  When  dissolved  put  on  the  stove  and  boil 
slowly  ten  minutes.  Watch  to  see  that  it  does  not  burn.  (If  it  needs 
clarifying  see  method  on  first  page  of  "Preserved  Fruits.")  Now,  while 
the  sugar  is  being  syruped  get  the  fruit  ready.  First  wash  thoroughly  the 
cans,  rubbers  and  tops,  fill  the  cans  with  the  fruit  within  three  inches  of 
the  top  and  stand  them  in  the  boiler  leaving  off  the  tops,  putting  on  the 
bottom  of  the  boiler  some  straw,  excelsior  or  old  cloths,  so  as  to  avoid 
the  cans  tumbling  against  each  other  and  spilling  their  contents;  then  fill 
the  boiler  with  cold  water  up  to  within  one-quarter  of  the  top  of  the  cans. 
Now  set  on  the  stove  and  let  the  fruit  gradually  heat,  putting  in  from 
time  to  time  the  amount  of  syrup  allowed  for  each  pound  of  fruit.  Let 
water  in  boiler  come  to  a  boil  and  then  cook  until  the  fruit  is  thoroughly 
heated.  Fill  to  top  with  syrup.  Screw  on  the  top  and  take  boiler  off  the 
stove  and  let  stand  till  nearly  cold,  then  turn  cans  bottom-side  up  to  see 
that  no  juice  escapes.  If  none,  the  cans  are  air-tight  and  the  fruit  will  be 
perfect  and  as  nice  in  five  years  as  in  six  months.     Try  it. 

Mrs.  Mary  Clark. 

METHOD  FOR  CANNING  VARIOUS  FRUITS. 

The  simplest  and  most  satisfactory  cans  to  use  are  of  glass,  with  glass 
or  granite  top.     Fill  them  by  means  of  a  funnel,  just  fitting  into  the  neck 

393 


CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 


303 


of  the  jar,  so  that  no  fruit  will  be  wasted.  The  fruit  should  be  perfectly 
fresh  and  sound  and  carefully  picked  over  so  that  no  ill  flavor  will  impair 
its  quality.     The  following  formula  is  simple: 


Time 
Boiling 
Minutes. 


Cherries      .     . 
Raspberries    . 
Blackberries    . 
Plums      .     .     . 
Whortleberries 
Peaches,  whole 
Peaches,  halved 
Pears,  whole  . 


5 
6 
6 

ID 

5 

15 

8 

30 


Sugar  to 

Quart 
Ounces. 

6 

4 

6 
>^lb. 
V^■ 

4 

4 
4  to  6 


Pears,  halved . 
Pineapple,  sliced 
Ripe  currants 
Grapes  ,  .  . 
Tomatoes  .  . 
Gooseberries  . 
Quinces,  sliced 


Time 
Boiling 
Minutes. 

20 

15 

6 

10 

20 

8 
15 


Sugar  to 
Quart 
Ounces. 


8 

o 

8 

10 


In  canning  peaches,  if  two  or  three  are  put  in  without  removing  the 
pits,  a  bitter  almond  flavor  will  pervade  the  whole  can. 

Place  a  very  wet  hot  cloth  in  the  pan;  set  the  jar  on  this,  having 
rinsed  them  first  in  hot  and  then  in  cold  water,  place  in  it  a  silver  spoon, 
put  in  the  funnel  and  a  cupful  of  syrup,  then  fill  with  fruit  to  the  top. 
Remove  the  spoon  and  set  the  jar  where  no  draft  of  air  can  strike  it. 
Cover  the  fruit  with  syrup.  In  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  the  contents  of  the 
jar  will  have  cooled  and  settled  some,  and  they  will  be  ready  to  seal.  Fill 
to  the  top  with  syrup  or  hot  water;  put  on  the  top.  When  the  jars  are 
cold  the  top  should  be  tightened  again  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 
Some  put  a  circular  piece  of  paper  on  top  of  the  jar  before  putting  the 
cover  on  and  think  this  prevents  the  mold  that  sometimes  forms  over  the 
fruit.  But  if  the  cans  stand  till  partially  cool,  and  are  then  filled  before 
being  sealed,  no  mold  will  form.  Julia  Stevenson. 


WOLVERINE  METHOD  OF  CANNING  STRAWBERRIES. 

It  is  generally  conceded  that  strawberries  are  the  hardest  fruit  to  keep 
we  have.  I  suppose  it  is  due  to  the  amount  of  acid  they  contain  and  the 
season  of  the  year  in  which  they  ripen.  My  method  has  never  failed  me. 
Try  it: 

Select  sound,  fresh  berries.  Pick  them  over  carefully  and  if  neces- 
sary wash,  but  drain  thoroughly  and  put  them  at  once  in  the  preserve 
kettle.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  let 
them  stand  two  or  three  hours,  till  the  juice  is  drawn  from  them;  pour  the 
juice  into  the  kettle  and  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  removing  the  scum  which 
rises;  now  put  in  the  berries;  thoroughly  scald,  yes,  even  boil  ten  minutes, 


394  CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

then  put  them  in  hot  jars  and  seal  while  boihng  hot.     Turn  can  bottom- 
side  up;  if  no  juice  escapes  they  will  keep  well.  Mary  Bornes. 

CANNED  RASPBERRIES. 

(Illinois  Recipe.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  berries  to  one  pound  of  sugar.  Stir  in  sugar 
before  putting  on  the  stove.  Let  them  come  to  a  good  boil,  then  seal  in 
glass  jars.  Mrs.  L.  Gregory. 

CANNED  GRAPES. 

(Michigan  Recipe.) 

Strange  that  so  many  have  trouble  canning  grapes.  I  ask  you  to  try 
my  recipe:  Squeeze  the  pulp  from  the  skin;  boil  the  pulp  in  one  kettle, 
and  the  skins  in  another  kettle,  putting  only  a  little  water  on  each. 
When  the  pulp  seems  tender  put  through  a  colander,  removing  the  seeds; 
now  add  the  skins  when  tender,  with  the  water  in  which  they  boiled  and 
a  large  cupful  of  sugar  for  a  quart  of  pulp  and  juice;  boil  ten  minutes, 
stirring  often,  and  can.  M.  C.  Miller. 

CANNED  PEACHES. 

(California  Recipe.) 

Make  a  syrup  of  one-half  pound  of  sugar  and  one-fourth  of  a  cupful 
of  water  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Select  large  ripe  yellow  or  white 
red-cheeked  peaches;  pare  and  divide  in  halves,  take  out  stones  from  most 
of  them;  leave  one  now  and  then  for  the  flavor.  When  ready  drop  them 
in  the  syrup  and  boil  ten  minutes.     Seal  while  hot. 

Mrs.  Martha  Thompson. 

CANNED  PINEAPPLE. 

(Florida  Recipe.) 

Select  sound  fruit,  pare  and  pick  out  the  eyes,  cut  in  thin  slices  cross- 
wise. Dig  out  center  and  tie  in  muslin  bag  and  add  to  syrup;  make  syrup 
of  three  pounds  of  sugar  and  three  pints  of  water  to  every  seven  pounds 
of  fruit;  boil  syrup  five  minutes  and  skim,  taking  out  muslin  bag  with 
cover.  Now  add  the  fruit  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes;  have  cans  hot,  fill 
and  close  up  as  soon  as  possible.     As  the  cans  cool,  keep  tightening  up. 

Mrs.  C.  I.  Berry. 

CANNED  PINEAPPLE. 

(Uncooked.) 

One  dozen  pineapples;  take  out  eyes,  chop  fine;  to  every  pound  of 
fruit  one  pound  of  sugar;  put  all  together  in  large  crock;  let  stand  twenty- 
four  hours,  stirring  occasionally.     Fill  your  jars;  screw  down  tight. 

Sarah  Fuller. 


CANNED  FRUITS  AND    VEGETABLES.  395 

CANNED  FRUIT  JUICES. 

Many  times  it  becomes  desirable  to  use  the  juices  of  fruits  for  color- 
ing and  flavoring  and  by  putting  these  up  in  the  fruit  season  they  are 
always  ready.  Select  sound  ripe  fruit,  press  out  the  juice,  and  strain 
through  a  flannel  bag.  To  each  pint  of  juice  add  one  cupful  of  white 
granulated  sugar.  Put  in  a  granite  kettle,  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point  and 
can  while  hot  in  small  glass  cans.  Seal  tight.  Keep  in  dry  dark  place. 
Under  the  head  of  "Preserves"  will  be  found  several  methods  of  preserv- 
ing these  juices  for  winter  use.  Mary  Bitner. 

CANNED  MINCEMEAT. 

Mincemeat  pies  are  so  enjoyed  by  many  people  that  they  ask  for  them 
at  all  seasons  of  the  year.  I  give  here  a  recipe  for  canning  mincemeat 
that,  when  opened,  one,  two,  or  three  years  later,  it  is  found  to  be  as  good 
as  when  freshly  made.  Make  and  season  the  mincemeat  (see  Chapter, 
"Pies,  Pastry,  Etc.")  and  heat  very  hot,  packing  in  glass  jars  and  setting 
away  in  a  dry,  dark  and  cool  place.  One  quart  can  will  hold  enough  for 
two  pies.  Marion  C.  Howitt. 

CANNED    BOILED  CIDER. 

I  was  trained  in  girlhood  to  think  that  mince  pies  and  fruit  cake  with- 
out boiled  cider  were  unfit  to  eat.  Many  of  the  modern  cooks  use  brandy 
instead  but  as  I  am  a  temperance  advocate  I  still  cling  to  the  good 
boiled  cider  mince  pie  made  by  my  grandmother.  To  enable  one  to  have 
this  at  all  times  I  herewith  give  my  recipe  for  keeping  it  the  year  round. 
Place  ten  quarts  of  sweet  cider  in  a  granite  kettle  over  the  fire,  boil  it 
slowly  until  reduced  to  two  quarts,  carefully  watching  it  that  it  does  not 
burn;  turn  into  glass  jars  while  hot  and  seal  tightly.  Set  away  in  dark 
dry  closet.  Auntie  Brower. 

CANNED    PLUMS. 

(California  Style.) 

Canned  plums  are  much  nicer  when  peeled.  To  peel  them,  pour  on 
boiling  hot  water  and  let  them  slightly  scald.  When  skins  begin  to 
break,  pour  off  water  and  peel.  Have  ready  a  syrup  made  in  the  propor- 
tion of  one  pound  of  sugar  to  every  four  pounds  of  fruit  and  just  enough 
water  to  dissolve  sugar.  When  all  the  plums  are  ready  put  them  in  the 
hot  syrup  and  cook  five  minutes.     Seal  at  once.  Mrs.  M.  Butler. 

CANNED  BLACKBERRIES  AND  BLUEBERRIES. 

Allow  sugar  and  treat  as  for  raspberries.  Mrs.  L.  Gregory. 


396  CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

CANNED  PEAS. 

(Iowa  Recipe.) 

Take  peas  when  at  their  best;  select  only  those  that  are  fresh  and 
tender.  Pod  and  fill  the  cans  (glass)  as  full  as  possible  by  shaking.  When 
no  more  peas  will  go  in  add  enough  clean  cold  water  to  fill  up  vacuum  and, 
screw  on  tops  fairly  tight  but  not  as  tight  as  you  would  to  put  away.  Leave 
room  for  gas  to  escape.  Proceed  to  cook  in  cold  water  as  described  in 
recipe  headed  "A-i  Method  for  Canning  Fruit,"  only  put  water  entirely 
over  the  can  and  boil  three  hours  steady.  Don't  let  water  stop  boiling 
once.  Cans  may  be  laid  flat  down  on  sides  if  desirable  in  canning 
vegetables  as  the  covers  are  on  and  not  off,  as  in  fruit.  Set  in  dry,  dark 
closet.  Mrs.  Mary  Clark. 

CANNED  CORN. 

Take  the  corn  when  not  too  hard,  fresh  and  sweet.  Split  the  kernels 
lengthwise  with  a  knife,  then  scrape  with  the  back  of  the  knife,  thus  leav- 
ing the  hulls  upon  the  cob.  Fill  glass  cans  full  of  corn,  pressing  very  hard 
to  get  all  the  spaces  filled  up  and  the  air  crowded  out.  Use  ten  or  eleven 
medium-sized  ears,  to  fill  a  quart  can.  Put  in  no  water  but  put  on  top, 
screw  down  and  cook  as  described  in  canning  peas.  This  method  has 
never  failed  me.     Early  June  peas  are  the  best.  Mrs.  Mary  Clark. 

CANNED  TOHATOES. 

Select  very  ripe  but  sound  tomatoes,  remove  skins  by  pouring  on 
scalding  hot  water  till  the  skins  break.  After  removing  skins  put  in  a 
granite  kettle  without  water  and  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil.  When  they 
have  boiled  thirty  minutes  seal  while  hot,  turn  bottom-side  up  and  when 
cold  set  in  a  dry,  dark  room.  Mrs.  Ione  Davis. 

CANNED  PUMPKIN. 

Squash  and  pumpkin  can  be  canned  in  season  for  spring  use  and 
prove  good  as  fresh.  Take  off  the  peel  and  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  stew 
until  tender,  then  mash  very  fine,  adding  no  seasoning.  Have  ready  glass 
cans,  heated,  and  fill  with  the  hot  squash  or  pumpkin  and  seal;  place  in  a 
dark,  dry  closet.  S.  F.  C. 

Dried  Fruits. 

(Hygienic  and  Economical.) 

The  most  healthful  of  all  fruits  put  up  for  future  use  is  the  sun-dried 
fruit.     This  is  especially  true  of  prunes,  apricots,  apples,  peaches,  plums, 


CANNED  FRUITS  AND   VEGETABLES.  397 

tigs,  raisins,  gooseberries,  and  all  other  berries.  It  requires  less  sugar  and 
is  more  healthful  as  well  as  economical.  The  sun  cures  fruit  as  no  arti- 
ficial heat  can. 

TO  DRY  PEACHES. 

Peel  the  peaches,  divide  in  halves  and  remove  the  stone;  allow  one 
pound  of  sugar  to  three  pounds  of  fruit;  make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  a 
ver)'  little  water;  put  in  the  peaches,  a  few  at  a  time,  and  cook  gently  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Take  them  up  carefully  on  platters,  boil  the  juice  until 
quite  thick,  pour  on  over  the  fruit  and  set  in  the  sun  to  dry.  When  quite 
dry  lay  them  lightly  in  a  jar  with  a  little  sugar  sifted  between  the  layers. 

California  Fruit  Grower. 

TO  DRY  PLUMS. 

(Delaware   Recipe.) 

Treat  in  same  way  as  the  peaches  only  do  not  remove  the  skins; 
simply  halve  and  remove  pits.  C.  F.  G. 

TO  DRY  APPLE5. 

(Missouri  Recipe./ 

Pare,  remove  core,  and  cut  in  slices  crosswise  or  cut  into  quarters  and 
eighths;  dry  partly  and  then  pack  them  in  jars,  spreading  sugar  between 
the  layers.  Tie  down  and  they  will  keep  well  and  be  excellent  for  pies  or 
sauce.  They  may  also  be  thoroughly  sun  dried  without  sugar  and  put 
away  for  use.  Missouri  Farmer. 

DRIED  GOOSEBERRIES. 

To  five  pounds  of  ripe  gooseberries  add  ten  pounds  of  sugar.  Scald 
and  spread  on  platters;  boil  the  syrup  a  little  longer  and  pour  over  fruit. 
Dr>'  in  the  sun.  M.  C.  P. 


p 


ICKUErS,    WIMEre-AR 
^     -AMD    BRIME:    ^ 


CIDER  or  maple  sugar  vinegar  should  be  used  for  pickles  unless  other- 
wise called  for.     If  the  vinegar  is  too  strong  dilute  with  water. 
Boil  pickles,  when  possible,  in  porcelain-lined  or  stone  vessels,  never 
in  metal. 

Pickles  of  all  kinds  kept  in  open  jars  should  be  stirred  occasionally, 
and  if  there  are  soft  ones  among  them  they  should  be  taken  out  and  the 
vinegar  scalded  and  turned  back  hot.  If  weak,  new  vinegar  should  be 
heated  and  turned  on  instead. 

CUCUHBER  PICKLES  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

The  best  way  to  put  down  cucumbers  for  winter  use,  especially  when 
a  panful  or  so  are  gathered  at  a  time,  is  to  wash  and  put  them  in  a  crock 
or  barrel.  First,  a  layer  of  cucumbers,  then  one  of  rock  salt  (enough  salt 
to  make  sufficient  brine  to  cover  them,  no  water),  cover  with  a  cloth;  keep 
them  under  the  brine  with  a  heavy  board  and  a  weight  on  top;  each  time 
more  fresh  cucumbers  are  added  take  out  those  already  in  brine,  putting 
the  new  ones  at  the  bottom;  rinse  the  cloth  every  time  you  put  in  fresh 
cucumbers,  as  a  scum  will  rise  and  settle  upon  it.  Use  plenty  of  salt  and 
the  pickles  will  keep  one  year.  To  prepare  pickles  for  use,  soak  in  luke- 
warm water,  changing  it  three  times  a  day,  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  until 
they  are  fresh  enough,  then  pour  plain  or  spiced  vinegar  over  and  let  them 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  pour  that  off  and  put  on  fresh.  In  gather- 
ing cucumbers  cut  them  off  the  vines  with  shears.  Pulling  or  twisting  them 
off  injures  the  vines.  Marion  Miller. 

CUCUHBER  PICKLES  FOR  SUHflER  USE. 

Take  of  small-sized  fresh  cucumbers  as  many  as  desired  for  summer 
use;  put  them  in  strong  salted  water  over  night;  take  out  of  the  brine, 
wipe  dry  and  cover  with  strong  vinegar;  in  two  or  three  days  they  are 
ready  for  use.  Mrs.  Sadie  Webb. 

SPICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Use  only  very  small  cucumbers,  taking  a  peck,  and  washing  them 
clean.  Put  in  a  stone  jar  and  make  a  brine  of  two  pounds  of  coarse  dairy 
salt  and  pour  over  them.     They  should  stand  in  this  brine  thirty-six  hours. 

398 


PICKLES,    VINEGAR  AND  BRINE.  399 

Then  take  them  out,  throw  away  the  brine,  put  cucumbers  into  a  pan  and 
cover  them  with  boiling  yN2X^r.  Let  stand  ten  minutes  in  this  water,  take 
them  out  and  drain  them  one  hour.  Put  in  jar,  cut  up  four  peppers,  mix- 
ing them  well  through  them.  Boil  one  gallon  of  vinegar  slowly  fifteen 
minutes,  adding  whole  peppers,  mace  and  cloves,  one-half  ounce  of  each. 
Then  skim  out  spices,  and  pour  vinegar  over  cucumbers  hot.  Cover  with 
a  plate  and  a  stone  to  weigh  it  down  and  cover  jar  with  another,  plate. 
Don't  disturb  them  for  a  week  or  so.  Mrs.  Maria  Gillespie. 

SWEET  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Take  twelve  large  green  cucumbers,  cut  in  slices  one-half  inch  thick 
and  soak  in  weak  salt  water  for  an  hour.  Make  a  thick  s^Tup  of  one 
coffee-cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  one  teacupful  of  vinegar;  tie  up  two 
teaspoonfuls  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves  in  a  piece  of  muslin;  boil  all  to 
a  thick  syrup,  then  drain  the  cucumbers;  rinse  well  in  clear  water  and  add 
to  the  syrup;  set  them  back  on  the  range  and  simmer  gently  for  three 
hours.  A.  R.  Hornsworth. 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES  (SOUR). 

Take  twelve  large,  ripe,  yellow  cucumbers,  cut  in  halves,  take  out  all 
the  seeds  and  pulp;  then  cut  in  oblongs,  stand  over  night  in  salt  water, 
next  morning  rinse  them  well  in  clear  water,  drain  and  wipe  as  dry  as 
possible,  placing  them  in  jar.  Have  one-half  dozen  red  peppers  prepared 
by  removing  seeds  and  cut  in  small,  narrow  pieces;  have  also  one  fresh 
horseradish,  prepared  in  same  way,  in  small  pieces,  and  about  one  pound 
of  mustard  seed;  sprinkle  all  these  in  between  the  slices  of  cucumbers; 
have  enough  boiling  hot  vinegar  to  cover  same  and  pour  over.  On  the 
third  morning  scald  vinegar  again,  adding  an  extra  quantity  if  it  seems 
weak,  and  they  are  ready  for  use  when  cold.  They  can  be  put  away  in 
glass  bottles  on  the  third  morning.  Belle  Locke. 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES  (SWEET). 

Pare  and  seed  large  ripe  cucumbers.  Slice  each  cucumber  crosswise 
at  the  center  and  lengthwise  into  eight  pieces.  Let  them  stand  twelve 
hours  covered  with  weak  salt  and  water.  Drain  and  then  boil  them  ten 
minutes  in  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  water,  and  let  stay  in  this  twenty- 
four  hours.  Drain  once  more,  then  put  them  in  a  syrup  of  one  pint  of 
vinegar  with  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  ounce  of  cassia  buds,  a  few 
sticks  of  cinnamon  and  a  few  cloves.  Boil  all  together  twenty  minutes. 
Cover  them  closely  in  a  jar.  This  is  a  delicious  pickle  if  properly  and 
carefully  made.  C  Julia  Felt. 


II 


400  PICKLES,    VINEGAR  AND  BRINE. 

SPICED  CUCUHBER  PICKLES— No.  2. 

Cover  one  hundred  cucumbers  with  one  pint  of  cold  water.  Soak  five 
days,  each  day  stirring  them  well  up  from  the  bottom.  Rinse  in  hot 
water,  and  let  stand  till  cold.  Wipe  them  dry.  Scald  vinegar  enough  to 
cover  them,  and  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  lump  of  alum  one-half  the  size 
of  an  G^g.     Spice  to  suit  the  taste.  Mrs.  J.  Steele. 

"    mXED  PICKLES  (WITH  DRESSING). 

One  gallon  of  cucumbers,  one  gallon  of  green  tomatoes,  one-half  gal- 
lon of  onions  that  have  been  steamed  till  done.  Steam  two  heads  of 
cauliflower  and  add  one-half  dozen  green  peppers.  Scald  in  weak  salt 
and  water  brine  one  day. 

Dressing. — One  gallon  of  vinegar,  twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard, 
two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  turmeric,  one  large  cupful  of 
flour,  wet  with  a  little  cold  vinegar.  Boil  five  minutes  and  pour  over 
thoroughly  drained  pickles.  Mrs.  Maria  Rice. 

MIXED  PICKLES  (SWEET). 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one  dozen  onions,  eight  green  pep- 
pers; chop  all  together,  add  one  cupful  of  salt  and  let  stand  over  night, 
drain.  Put  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one-half 
teacupful  of  grated  horseradish,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  ground  black 
pepper,  mustard,  whole  white  mustard  seed  and  celery  seed.  Cover  with 
vinegar  and  boil  gently  one  hour.  Lillie. 

MIXED  PICKLES— No.  2. 

(French  Style.) 

Slice  in  an  earthen  jar  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  six  large  onions, 
and  pour  over  them  one  cupful  of  salt.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours  and 
drain.  Add  one  quart  of  cider  vinegar,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
one-eighth  of  a  pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper  and  cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Minerva  Weeks. 

ENGLISH  MIXED  MUSTARD  PICKLES. 

One  quart  of  whole  small  onions,  or  large  ones  sliced,  one-half  peck 
of  sliced  green  tomatoes,  six  sliced  green  peppers,  five  whole  red  peppers, 
one  hundred  small  cucumbers,  or  fifty  large  ones,  two  large  cauliflowers, 
one  quart  of  beans,  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  salt;  mix  all  together  and  let 
stand  over  night.     In  the  morning,  drain  well  and  add  whole  spices,  tied 


PICKLES,   VINEGAR  AND  BRINE.  401 

in  muslin  bag.  One-quarter  ounce  each  of  mace  and  whole  black  peppers, 
one-half  ounce  of  cloves,  one-half  ounce  each  of  cloves  and  celery  seed, 
one  ounce  of  mustard  seed.  Cover  with  vinegar  and  set  on  stove  with 
one  pound  of  brown  sugar;  when  nearly  boiling  add  one  pound  of  ground 
mustard  and  one  tablespoonful  of  turmeric,  mixed  smooth  and  thin  with 
cold  vinegar.  Stir  and  let  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  when  done,  remove 
spice  bag  and  bottle  pickles.  Mrs  H.  B.  Somers. 

MUSTARD   PICKLES. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  cauliflower,  little  onions  and  small  cucum- 
bers. Look  them  over  carefully  and  to  one  peck  sprinkle  one  cupful  of 
salt  between  the  layers.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  all  night 
Drain  through  colander  and  wipe  dry.  To  one-half  gallon  of  cider  vinegar 
take  one-half  pound  of  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  of  turmeric,  two  and 
one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  curry-powder,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper.  Stir  these  together  with  a  little  cold 
vinegar,  until  the  lumps  are  out;  then  stir  it  into  the  half-gallon  of  hot 
vinegar  and  keep  on  stirring  until  It  comes  to  a  scald.  Pour  this  over  the 
pickles,  stir  it  once  or  twice  for  a  day  or  two  and  then  put  up  in  glass  jars. 

S.  Rosa  Silver. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES— No.  2. 

Slice  one  quart  of  large  cucumbers  and  one  quart  of  small  cucumbers. 
Also  slice  two  quarts  of  onions,  two  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  three  heads 
of  cauliflower,  and  six  green  peppers.  Soak  all  over  night  in  a  strong 
brine  (teacupful  of  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water).  In  the  morning  cook  all 
except  the  cucumbers  in  clear  water  till  tender.  Let  all  drain  while  you 
make  the  dressing. 

Dressing. — One  gallon  of  vinegar,  twenty-four  tablespoonfuls  of  dry 
mustard,  four  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  ounce  of  tumeric. 
Put  the  vinegar  on  to  boil.  Wet  the  mustard,  sugar,  flour  and  turmeric 
with  some  of  the  cold  vinegar.  When  the  vinegar  comes  to  a  boil,  stir 
them  in.  When  they  are  thickened  add  all  the  others  and  let  boil  up 
once.  Mrs.  Lily  Gregory. 

PICKLED  CHERRIES. 

Stone  five  pounds  of  cherries.  Take  one  quart  of  vinegar,  two  pounds 
of  sugar,  one-half  ounce  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace.  Grind  the 
spices  and  tie  them  in  a  muslin  bag;  boil  the  spices,  sugar  and  vinegar 
together  and  pour  hot  over  the  cherries.  Mrs.  C.  Reese. 


402  PICKLES,    VINEGAR  AND  BRINE. 

PICKLED  WATERMELON  RINDS. 

Pare  the  rinds  (cutting  off  the  colored  portion  of  the  inside)  and  cut- 
ting the  pieces  into  strips  till  you  have  a  ten-quart  pail  full.  Cover  them 
with  cold  water  in  which  are  thrown  bits  of  alum  sufficient  to  give  the 
water  a  strong  alum  taste.  It  will  require  three  quarts  of  vinegar.  Soak 
over  night,  then  drain  well  and  to  each  pint  of  vinegar  allow  a  cupful  of 
sugar;  a  scant  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice.  If 
allspice  is  disliked  for  the  dark  color  it  gives,  use  nutmeg — a  nice  oppor- 
tunity for  pounding  up  the  bits  saved  from  the  nutmeg  grater.  Boil  the 
vinegar  and  sugar  together,  skim  well,  and  throw  in  the  rinds,  covering 
them  with  a  large  plate.  They  should  boil  till  they  can  be  easily  pricked 
with  a  silver  fork.  When  half  through  the  boiling  throw  in  the  spice 
bags.  Pour  all  into  a  jar;  to  keep  them  from  floating  lay  plates  over  the 
vinegar.     They  will  be  as  good  the  second  summer  as  the  first. 

Mrs.  Farmer. 

EAST  INDIA  PICKLE. 

One-half  peck  of  tomatoes,  one-half  peck  of  onions,  six  heads  of 
cauliflower.  Slice  the  tomatoes  and  onions  quite  small.  Break  the  cauli- 
flower with  the  fingers  and  sprinkle  salt  plentifully  over  them  and  let 
stand  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  well,  mix  one  cupful  of  grated  horse- 
radish, one-half  ounce  of  turmeric,  one-half  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon, 
one-half  ounce  of  cloves  and  one-half  ounce  of  black  pepper  and  one  pint 
of  mustard  and  six  heads  of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  all  these 
ingredients  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  cold  cider  vinegar  and  boil  slowly  for 
two  hours.  Mrs.  A.  Robb. 

PICKLED   BEETS. 

Take  the  beets  when  thoroughly  cold,  slice  them  across.  Make  a 
liquid  of  half  vinegar  and  half  water  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  put  the  beets  in  this.  This  is  only  for  pres- 
ent use,  as  if  they  stand  too  long  they  turn  white.  You  can  make  a  bag 
of  spices  and  boil  with  them,  also  a  few  whole  cloves. 

Mrs.  a.  R.  Gates. 

PICKLED    PEACHES. 

Pare  one  pound  of  cling  peaches;  to  them  add  two-thirds  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  and  some  whole  spice  and  let  stand  over  night;  then  heat  gradu- 
ally until  the  fruit  is  soft.  Skim  out  the  fruit  and  let  the  syrup  boil  down 
until  quite  thick;  then  add  the  peaches  and  vinegar,  cloves,  mace  and 
cinnamon.  Mrs.  M.  H.  Skinner. 


PICKLES,    VINEGAR  AND  BRINE.  403 

QUICK  WAY  TO  PEEL  PEACHES  FOR  PICKLING. 

In  peeling  small  peaches  with  a  knife  too  much  of  the  peach  is 
wasted;  take  instead  a  wire  basket,  fill  it  with  peaches  and  dip  it  into 
boiling  water,  for  a  moment,  then  into  cold  water  for  a  moment  and  empty; 
continue  in  the  same  way  for  all.  This  toughens  the  skin  and  enables 
you  to  strip  it  off,  saving  much  in  labor  and  also  the  waste  of  peach.  Why 
not,  as  well  as  tomatoes?  L.  B. 

PICKLED  5WEET  APPLES. 

Make  a  syrup  of  two  cupfuls  of  vinegar  and  four  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
Add  a  few  small  pieces  of  whole  cinnamon  and  a  few  cloves.  Pare,  core 
and  quarter  sweet  apples;  drop  them  in  the  syrup  and  let  cook  till  ten- 
der. Put  in  a  jar  and  pour  the  syrup  over.  They  are  ready  to  eat  as 
soon  as  cold  and  will  keep  for  any  length  of  time  if  sealed  in  jars. 

Emily  B. 
PICKLED  SWEET  PEARS. 

Boil  together  for  ten  minutes  one  pint  of  cider  vinegar,  one  and 
three-fourths  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.  Tie  in  a  small  piece  of  cloth 
one-half  dozen  whole  cloves,  one  dozen  whole  allspice  and  a  few  pieces 
of  cinnamon.  Put  with  the  vinegar  and  boil.  Select  seckel  pears  and 
pare;  then  put  into  the  vinegar.  Boil  gently  until  the  pears  look  clear, 
then  drain  off  the  vinegar,  put  the  pears  into  jars,  reheat  the  vinegar  and 
pour  over.     Seal,  if  desired  for  winter  use.  Mrs.  N.  K.  B. 

CANTALOUPE  5WEET  PICKLE. 

Pare  the  cantaloupes,  remove  the  seeds  and  cut  in  strips.  To  seven 
pounds  of  fruit  allow  one-half  as  much  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  vinegar. 
Boil  sugar  and  vinegar  together,  adding  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon  and  a 
few  cloves;  boil  the  strips  of  cantaloupe  in  the  syrup  until  they  look  clear 
— several  hours  are  required.     Seal  in  jars.  Mrs.  D.  Z.  B. 

PICKLED  CRAB-APPLES. 

Leave  on  the  stem  but  remove  the  blossom.  To  five  pounds  of  fruit 
add  one-half  as  much  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one-half  ounce  of  stick 
cinnamon  and  a  few  cloves.  Steam  the  crab-apples  until  tender.  Boil 
the  syrup  ten  minutes.  Skim.  Throw  the  crab-apples  in  and  let  boil 
five  minutes.     Can  immediately.  C.  C.  S. 

PICKLED  ONIONS. 

Select  small  onions  of  equal  size,  perfectly  sound;  pfeel  and  scald 
in  salt  water  till  they  are  tender,  drain    and  put   into  glass  jars;    heat  to 


404  'PICKLES,   VINEGAR  AND  BRINE. 

boiling  point  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  them,  scalding  with  it  mixed  whole 
cloves  and  mace;  pour  it  over  the  onions,  distributing  the  spices  among 
the  jars;  seal  the  jars  air-tight  after  pouring  the  vinegar  over  the  onions. 

Mrs.  Harole  Judd. 

SLICED  GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES  (SOUR). 

Take  large,  smooth,  green  tomatoes.  Cut  off  small  slice  at  stem  and 
blossom  end,  cut  the  remainder  in  slices.  To  every  six  tomatoes  allow 
one  onion,  sliced,  a  little  grated  horseradish  and  one-fourth  of  a  pepper, 
chopped  fine.  Put  layers  in  a  jar  with  a  very  slight  sprinkling  of  salt 
between  each  layer,  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  remove,  drain,, 
and  pack  in  jars.  Cover  with  vinegar  poured  over  boiling  hot.  This  is 
a  choice  recipe.  Cynthia  Lester. 

SLICED  QREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES  (SWEET). 

Slice  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes  the  night  before  pickling,  sprinkling 
them  slightly  with  salt;  in  the  morning  drain  off  the  liquor.  Slice  twelve 
large  onions;  take  a  granite  kettle  and  put  in  a  layer  of  the  sliced 
tomatoes,  then  of  onions,  and  between  each  layer  sprinkle  the  following 
spices:  six  red  peppers  coarsely  chopped,  one  coffee-cupful  of  brown 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  ground  allspice  and  cinnamon  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  cloves.  Tie  the  spices  in  small  muslin  bags.  Turn  over 
two  pints  of  good  vinegar;  boil  until  tender.  Anna  Bluer. 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLES  (SOUR). 

Take  large  tomatoes — the  yellow  and  red  mixed;  slice  in  inch  slices. 
Put  them  in  a  strong  brine  for  twenty-four  hours;  rinse  and  put  down  in 
layers,  mixing  with  sliced  onions  and  grated  horseradish.  Spice  the 
vinegar  to  suit  the  taste  (See  Spiced  Vinegar).  Pack  in  cans  and  turn 
vinegar  over  scalding  hot.     Seal  at  once.  Nellie  Polard. 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLES  (SWEET). 

Pare  small  ripe  tomatoes.  Cover  with  good  vinegar,  adding  for  every 
seven  pounds  of  fruit  three  and  one-half  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one 
ounce  of  stick  cinnamon,  broken,  and  one-half  ounce  of  allspice  and 
cloves;  tie  the  spices  in  a  cloth  and  simmer  a  few  moments.  Skim  the 
tomatoes  out  carefully,  put  in  a  jar,  boil  the  syruj)  a  trifle  longer  and  pour 
over  them  boiling  hot.  L.  P.  M. 


PICKLES,  VINEGAR  AND  BRINE.  40o 

PICKLED    CABBAGE. 

(Red  or  White j 

Remove  the  outer  leaves,  quarter  and  reject  the  stalk.  Cut  in  slices 
one-third  of  an  inch  thick;  put  in  ajar  with  salt  sprinkled  between  the 
layers  and  let  stand  over  night.  Next  morning  drain  dry  as  possible  and 
cover  with  boiling  hot  vinegar  spiced  to  the  taste.  L.  A.  B. 

SWEET  PICKLED  CABBAGE. 

Same  as  above  only  sweetened. 

MELON  MANGOES. 

Select  firm,  sound,  green  cantaloupe.  With  a  sharp  knife  remove  one 
slice,  take  out  the  seed,  soak  over  night  in  salt  water,  then  fill  with 
chopped  cabbage  and  green  tomatoes,  seasoned  with  salt,  mustard  seed 
and  red  pepper  chopped.  Replace  the  top  and  tie.  Boil  enough  vinegar 
to  cover  adding  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar  and  pour  over  the  mangoes. 
Repeat  three  mornings.  Mrs.  D.  Z.  B. 

PEPPER  HANGOES. 

Same  as  for  melon  mangoes,  using  both  red  and  green  peppers  and 
sewing  on  tops,  leaving  out,  of  course,  the  coarsely-chopped  peppers  and 
substituting  ground  cloves.  C.  M. 

SUMMER  PICKLES. 

Cut  equal  quantities  of  young  onions,  sour  apples  and  fresh  cucum- 
bers into  thin  slices.  With  these  fill  an  unglazened  earthen  jar  which  will 
hold  a  quart.  Shake  in  with  the  vegetables  a  dessert-spoonful  of  salt  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper.  Pour  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry 
and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  soy,  as  much  vinegar  as  the  jar  will  hold,  and 
cover  closely  until  wanted.  If  it  is  wished  to  make  this  pickle  in  the 
autumn  or  winter  finely-minced  celer>'  may  be  substituted  for  the  cucum- 
bers.    The  pickle  can  be  used  the  day  it  is  made. 

Mrs.  Fanny  Martin. 
DILL  PICKLES. 

To  one  gallon  of  water  add  a  quart  of  vinegar  and  one  cupful  of  salt. 

E.J.I. 
PICKLED  BEANS. 

Boil  the  beans  in  salted  water  and  when  nearly  done  lay  them  in  a 
colander  to  drain.  Then  make  a  liquid  by  boiling  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
quart  of  vinegar  with  spices  in  a  bag.     Then  pour  this  over  the  beans. 

Mrs.  Jane  Rollins. 


406  PICKLES,   VINEGAR  AND  BRINE. 

ENGLISH    BEAR. 

Take  hard  yellow  cucumbers,  pare,  scrap  well,  cut  in  shapes  to  suit 
your  fancy;  let  remain  in  vinegar  and  salt  over  night;  drain  and  boil  in 
vinegar  with  small  pieces  of  alum;  put  in  jar.  To  a  dozen  cucumbers 
allow  two  ounces  of  allspice,  same  of  mustard,  one  ounce  of  black  pepper, 
some  small  onions,  three  whole  red  peppers;  boil  these  in  vinegar  enough 
to  fill  the  jars;  pour  all  over  the  cucumbers;  can  be  used  one  day  after 
making.  Mrs.  Wilber. 

PICKLED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Gather  the  cauliflowers  on  a  fine  day,  selecting  the  whitest  and  firm- 
est. After  separating  them  into  bunches  scald  them  thoroughly  in  hot 
salt  and  water  but  do  not  let  them  boil  as  that  would  discolor  them;  keep 
them  covered  while  cooling;  place  them  in  a  colander  and  after  sprinkling 
lightly  with  salt  drain  them  twenty-four  hours;  to  twenty  heads  give  a 
pickle  composed  of  two  ounces  of  mustard,  four  ounces  of  coriander  seed, 
two  ounces  of  ginger,  one  ounce  each  of  nutmeg  and  mace,  four  quarts  of 
vinegar;  let  these  ingredients  be  slowly  boiled  together.  Having  the 
cauliflower  drained,  put  in  glass  jars  and  cover  closely,  after  filling  with 
the  liquor.  Mrs.  Thomas  Jordan. 

nOTHER'S  PICKLES. 

Cook  in  proportion  one-quarter  of  beets  to  three-quarters  of  cabbage. 
Cook  beets  until  done  and  chop  them,  but  chop  the  cabbage  raw  and 
bring  it  to  a  good  scald.  Use  pepper,  salt  and  sugar,  about  one-half  cup- 
ful of  the  latter.  Scald  vinegar  and  cover  the  pickles  with  this.  Pack 
tightly  in  jars,  and  cover.  If  spices  are  used  put  them  in  a  bag  and  scald 
in  the  vinegar.  Mrs.  Lily  Gregory. 

CHOWCHOW. 

Twenty-five  young,  tiny  cucumbers,  fifteen  onions  sliced,  two  quarts  of 
string  beans,  cut  in  halves,  four  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced  and 
chopped  coarsely,  two  large  heads  of  white  cabbage.  Prepare  these  articles 
and  put  them  in  a  stone  jar  in  layers  with  a  slight  sprinkling  of  salt  between 
them.  Let  them  stand  twelve  hours,  then  drain  off  the  brine.  Now  put 
the  vegetables  in  a  preserving  kettle  over  the  fire,  sprinkling  through  them 
four  red  peppers,  chopped  coarsely,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  seed, 
two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  celery  seed,  whole  allspice,  and  whole  cloves 
and  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Pour  on  enough  of  the  best  cider  vinegar  to  cover; 
cover  tightly  and  simmer  well  until  thoroughly  cooked.  Put  in  glass  jars 
when  hot.  J.  H.  T. 


PICKLES,  VINEGAR  AND  BRINE.  407 

PICCALILLI. 

Take  two  hundred  small  cucumbers,  salt,  one  large  head  of  cauli- 
rtower,  two  quarts  of  small  white  onions,  one-quarter  of  a  peck  of  green 
tomatoes,  one  bunch  of  celery;  salt  over  night.  Next  day  put  all  in  boil- 
ing water  and  have  it  come  up  to  a  boil  twice.  Drain  and  put  in  a  jar. 
Put  all  kinds  of  spice  in  a  muslin  bag  and  put  into  vinegar  and  boil.  To 
make  five  gallons  of  piccalilli  use  one-half  pound  of  mustard  flour,  mix  it 
smooth  in  cold  water,  add  to  the  boiling  vinegar  and  pour  over  the 
pickles.  Mrs.  N.  Sollitt. 

PICCALILLI— No.  2. 

Chop  fine  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  and  twelve  large  onions, 
add  four  green  peppers  and  three  red  peppers  coarsely  chopped  and  one 
cupful  of  salt.  Let  stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  drain  off  the  liquor. 
Now  add  two  quarts  of  water  and  one  pint  of  vinegar;  boil  all  together 
twenty  minutes.  Drain  through  a  sieve.  Put  ingredients  back  into  the 
kettle;  pour  over  two  quarts  of  vinegar  and  one  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
one-half  pound  of  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one 
tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  allspice.     Boil  together  fifteen  minutes.  Greta  T. 

TO  SALT  CUCUHBERS  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

See  department  of  "Pickles." 

PICKLED  WALNUTS. 

Gather  while  they  are  sufficiently  green  to  put  the  head  of  a  pin  into 
them,  wipe  and  put  them  in  a  cold  brine  of  salt  and  water  strong  enough 
to  hold  an  ^^g.  Let  them  stand  for  six  days;  then  change  the  brine 
and  let  them  stand  three  more;  then  drain  and  pour  over  them  a  pickle 
of  cider  vinegar,  with  a  good  quantity  of  pepper,  ginger,  mustard  seed  and 
horse-radish,  all  boiled  together,  but  cold.  They  will  be  good  in  six 
months.  D.  F.  B. 

PICKLED  EGGS. 

Boil  two  dozen  eggs  for  thirty  minutes;  then  plunge  into  cold  water, 
remove  the  shells,  and  put  into  a  jar.  Put  six  cupfuls  of  cider  vinegar  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  into  a  saucepan;  add  one-half  ounce  each  of 
mace,  white  ginger  and  cloves;  boil  five  minutes.  Let  the  pickle  get  cold 
and  drop  the  eggs  into  it.  Irene. 


408  PICKLES,   VINEGAR  AND  BRINE. 

PICKLED  ONIONS  AND  CUCUMBERS. 

Peel  ten  large  green  cucumbers  and  half  a  dozen  small  onions,  cut 
them  into  thick  slices  crosswise  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Let  stand  for  a 
day,  then  drain;  put  them  in  a  jar,  pour  over  sufficient  boiling  vinegar  to 
cover  and  keep  them  in  a  warm  place  for  from  twelve  to  eighteen  hours. 
Drain  off  the  vinegar,  heat  again  and  pour  over  till  both  the  onions  and 
cucumbers  are  quite  green,  adding  a  little  red  pepper  and  a  speck  of  sugar 
the  last  time  of  boiling.     Cover  tightly  and   place  in  a  cool  place. 

P.    LOCHE. 
PICKLED  MUSHROOMS. 

Take  two  quarts  of  small  fresh  mushrooms  (be  sure  and  not  get  the 
toadstools,  which  are  similar  in  looks  but  very  poisonous),  cut  off  the  stalks 
and  remove  the  skins  with  a  piece  of  flannel  and  salt.  Place  them  in 
a  stew-pan  with  four  blades  of  pounded  mace  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  ground  pepper,  dredge  with  salt  and  place  over  a  slow  fire  until  the 
liquor  has  run  from  them  and  dried  up;  then  add  enough  vinegar  to  cover; 
simmer  for  about  two  minutes,  then  turn  into  glass  jars.  When  cold  seal 
the  jars  and  put  in  a  dry  place.  '  Chef. 

PICKLED   OYSTERS. 

Bring  to  a  scald  one  gallon  of  large  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  with 
salt  to  taste,  then  skim  out  and  lay  them  on  a  platter;  when  the  liquid  is 
cold  add  to  it  one  pint  of  vinegar,  sprigs  of  mace  and  a  little  pepper; 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil  pour  over  the  oysters.  Ala  Atlantic  City. 

PICKLED  BUTTERNUTS. 

Gather  them  the  last  week  in  June.  Scald  and  rub  olT  the  outside 
skin,  put  them  in  a  strong  salt  and  water  brine  for  nine  days,  keeping 
them  closely  covered  from  the  air.  Then  drain  and  prepare  the  pickle  as 
foUow^s:  For  a  hundred  nuts  take  a  gallon  of  cider  vinegar,  put  in  of 
black  pepper  and  ginger  root  each  one  tablespoonful,  and  of  ground  cloves 
and  allspice  each  one-half  tablespoonful,  also  two  large  spoonfuls  of  mus- 
tard seed  and  horseradish.  Put  the  nuts  into  jars.  Heat  to  boiling  point 
the  vinegar  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  upon  the  nuts.     Seal  closely. 

A.  F.  W. 

Vinegars — How  to  Md^ke. 

There  are  many  kinds  of  vinegars;  those  used  for  pickling  and  those 
used  for  flavoring.     Pure  cider  vinegar  and   pure  maple  sugar  vinegar  are 


The  Ii^^=JjQu-?ek^€'per 

l\  bartoaA&-5  ao-e  good  \or  me, 
Ihey  mujf-txljo  be  qooS  for  dolly 


GRAPE  FRUIT 

Jerved  ia  bav,>skef 

made  of  ihe  peel 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  HOW  TO  SERVE  THEM. 

Recipes  for  above  dishes   with   scores  of  other  simple,   yet   novel  desserts,  arc  foiiiid 

within  this  book. 


PICKLES,    VINEGAR   AND  BRINE.  411 

generally  considered  the  most  healthful.  To  impart  an  acid,  however,  to 
most  of  the  commonly-used  side  dishes  I  would  suggest,  where  practicable, 
the  use  of  lemons.  The  latter  is  perfectly  healthy,  being  a  pure  fruit 
product  and  as  it  has  not  undergone  the  process  of  fermentation  it  natu- 
rally commends  itself  to  every  housewife  who  looks  after  the  hygiene  of 
the  family.  A.  C.  C. 

HOME-MADE  TABLE    VINEGAR. 

Put  in  an  open  cask  four  gallons  of  good  cider  and  one  gallon  of 
molasses;  cover  the  top  with  thin  muslin  and  leave  it  in  the  sun,  covering 
it  up  at  night  and  when  it  rains.  In  four  weeks  it  will  be  good  vinegar. 
If  cider  cannot  be  obtained  use  rainwater  although  it  will  take  longer, 
probably  four  or  five  weeks,  to  make  a  very  sharp  vinegar. 

X.  M.  Heinz. 
STRONG   CIDER  VINEGAR  FOR  PICKLING. 

Take  three  gallons  of  good  cider  and  mix  thoroughly  with  three 
pounds  of  honey  or  brown  sugar,  pour  into  a  cask  and  let  stand  for  six 
months.  Vinegar  will  then  be  so  strong  as  to  make  it  necessar}^  to  dilute 
for  table  use.  N.  M.  Heinz. 

HONEY  VINEGAR. 

Mix  in  the  proportion  of  eight  quarts  of  warm  water  to  one  quart  of 
honey.  Let  it  stand  in  a  warm  room  or  in  the  sun  until  it  passes  through 
the  stage  of  fermentation.     A  fine  white  vinegar  will  form.       E.  S.  F. 

TARRAGON  VINEGAR. 

Put  into  a  glass  can  one  cupful  of  fresh  tarragon  leaves,  cover  with  a 
quart  of  good  cider  vinegar;  cork  the  bottle  and  let  stand  for  two  weeks, 
shaking  frequently.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Pour  into  small  bot- 
tles, cork,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  to  use  for  salads  and  fish  sauces. 

A.  F.  M. 
BEER  VINEGAR. 

Take  the  juice  of  one  bushel  of  sugar  beets.  Wash,  grate  and  extract 
the  juice.  Put  the  liquid  in  an  empty  barrel,  cover  with  gauze  and  set  in 
the  sun.     In  twelve  or  fifteen  days  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  C.  A.  T. 

SORGHUM  VINEGAR. 

To  one  gallon  of  the  sorghum  add  four  times  as  much  warm  water. 
Mix  thoroughly,  put  in  an  open  jar.  Tie  a  coarse  cloth  over  the  top. 
Place  where  it  is  light  and  warm  and  stir  occasionally.  M.  F.  O. 


412  PICKLES,   VINEGAR  AND  BRINE. 

HORSERADISH  VINEGAR. 

Put  into  a  jar  four  ounces  of  grated  horseradish,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cayenne,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard; 
pour  over  them  one  quart  of  boiling  vinegar  and  set  the  covered  jar  by 
the  fire  for  two  weeks;  then  boil  up  the  vinegar,  let  it  cool,  strain  through 
a  jelly  bag  and  bottle.     It  is  an  excellent  relish  for  salads,  cold  meats,  etc. 

R.  E.  S. 
MAPLE  SUGAR  VINEGAR. 

Put  into  an  open  cask  the  scraping  of  maple  sugar,  odd  bits  of  maple 
syrup  and  the  rinsings  of  granite  pans  in  which  has  been  cooked  maple 
syrup;  add  a  little  warm  water  and  let  stand  in  the  sun  covered  with  a 
gauze  until  it  ferments.  D.  Z. 

ECONOMICAL    VINEGAR. 

Save  the  sound  cores  and  the  parings  of  apples  used  in  cooking.  Put 
into  a  jar,  cover  with  cold  water,  stand  in  a  warm  place,  add  one-half  pint 
of  molasses  to  every  two  gallons.  Cover  the  jar  with  gauze;  add  more 
parings  and  cores  occasionally.     This  will  make  good  vinegar. 

H.  F.  L. 

SPICED  VINEGAR. 

One  gallon  of  cider  vinegar,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
allspice,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  seed,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
celery  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon, 
and  one  teacupful  of  grated  horseradish.  F.  E.  P. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Put  one  pound  of  ripe  red  or  black  raspberries  into  a  granite  bowl  and 
pour  upon  it  a  quart  of  the  best  white  wine  vinegar;  next  day  strain  the 
liquor  off  the  raspberries;  the  following  day  do  the  same  but  do  not  squeeze 
the  fruit.     Put  all  together  and  bottle.  M.  B.  C. 

CELERY  VINEGAR  FOR  FLAVORINGS. 

One  quart  of  fresh  celery,  chopped  fine,  one  quart  of  cider  vinegar; 
one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  one  of  brown  sugar.  Put  the  celery  in  a  jar, 
heat  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  salt;  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  celery,  let 
cool,  cover  it  tightly  and  set  away.  In  two  weeks  strain  and  bottle.  One- 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  celery  seed  can  be  substituted  instead  of  the  fresh 
celery  if  more  convenient.  M.  A.  I. 


PICKLES,  VINEGAR  AND  BRINE.  418 

Pickle  of  Brine. 

TO  PRESERVE  BEEF. 

First,  let  it  get  thoroughly  cold  and  firm,  then  rub  salt  Into  it  and  let 

remain  for  twenty-four  hours.     This  draws  off  the  blood.     Next  drain, 

and  pack  it  in  a  brine  prepared  as  follows:  For  every  one  hundred  pounds 

of  beef  use  seven  pounds  of  salt,  one  ounce  each  of  saltpetre  and  cayenne 

pepper,  one  pint  of  molasses,  ten  gallons  of  soft  water.     Boil  and  skim 

well,  when  cool  pour  it  over  the  beef.     Keep  in  this  until  ready  for  use. 

The  brine  should  be  boiled  up  occasionally  and  scummed. 

A.  Granger. 
TO  CURE    HAMS. 

To  every  one  hundred  pounds  make  a  brine  of  eight  pounds  of  coarse 
salt,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  ounce  of 
potash  and  four  gallons  of  water.  First,  let  the  hams  get  thoroughly  cold, 
say  two  days  after  butchering;  rub  them  all  over  with  fine  salt;  then  pour 
over  them  the  brine.  Let  remain  six  weeks  in  the  brine,  then  take  out 
and  dry  several  days  before  smoking.  N.  K.  Brooks. 

A  PICKLE  FOR  HAM,  BEEF,  TONGUE,  BACON,  ETC. 

Take  three  or  four  hams  weighing  fourteen  or  sixteen  pounds  each. 
Let  them  hang  for  a  day,  then  rub  well  into  each  one  two  ounces  of  sal 
prunella,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  one  pound  of  salt.  Put  the  hams 
into  a  deep  pan  and  turn  them  over  and  rub  them  each  day  for  three 
days.  Make  a  pickle  by  boiling  together  three  gallons  of  water,  four 
pounds  of  common  salt,  four  pounds  of  bay  salt,  and  seven  pounds  of 
moist  sugar.  Skim  thoroughly,  and  when  the  pickle  has  boiled  for  twenty 
minutes,  pour  it  hot  over  the  meat.  The  hams  must  be  rubbed  and  turned 
daily,  and  their  relative  position  altered,  the  one  at  the  top  being  put  to 
the  bottom,  and  so  on.  At  the  end  of  three  weeks  they  must  be  drained 
and  dried,  and  smoked  if  practicable.  This  pickle  will  be  found  excellent 
for  beef,  bacon,  tongues,  etc.,  and  will  keep  for  several  months  if  it  be 
boiled  and  skimmed  each  time  it  is  used,  and  kept  closely  corked.  Salt 
and  treacle  should  be  added  also  to  make  up  for  the  strength  evaporat- 
ing. E.  J.  C. 

TO  SALT  PORK. 

Let  the  pork  get  thoroughly  cold  and  hard,  put  in  a  boiler  as  much 
water  as  will  well  cover  pork  to  be  preserved.  When  it  boils,  mix  in  salt. 
To  ascertain  when  there  is  salt  enough  put  in  an  &^^ — if  it  floats  there  is 
sufficient.  Pour  the  brine  in  a  jar  and  let  it  cool.  When  cold  pour  over 
the  pork.  C.  A.  S. 


EAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES 

AND  GARNISHINGS. 

SAUCES  accompanying  various  meats  should  increase  its  palatableness 
and  yet,  very  many  fail  in  this  matter.  Some  one  has  said  that  the  best 
test  of  a  good  cook  is  good  gravy.  There  are  four  qualities  demanded  in 
the  composition  of  a  good  sauce  or  gravy.  First,  is  its  color:  it  should 
be  attractive  to  the  eye;  second,  it  should  be  pleasing  in  its  aroma;  third, 
pleasing  in  flavor  and  fourth,  consistency.  The  simplest  way  to  make  a 
gravy  or  sauce  is  to  remove  the  meat  from  the  pan,  pour  or  skim  off  the 
fat,  leaving  the  residue  in  the  pan.  Then,  add  a  little  hot  water  or  milk, 
stirring  all  thoroughly.  Next  strain  the  liquid,  season  to  taste  and  it  is 
ready  for  use — a  clear,  bright  substance,  free  from  fat. 

When  a  sauce  is  intended  to  be  served  hot,  it  should  be  kept  so,  and 
the  best  method  to  insure  this  is  to  place  the  vessel  in  which  the  sauce  has 
been  made  in  another  one  containing  hot  water.  This  prevents  further 
boiling,  but  keeps  the  right  degree  of  heat.  Sauces,  gravies,  etc.,  are 
better  made  in  an  enameled  saucepan.  Below  are  given  recipes  for  the 
making  of  all  the  favorites. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  two  generous  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir;  pour  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  a  little 
salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  for  twenty  minutes  until  it  thickens,  then  add 
gradually  one-half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  beating  until  it  becomes  white. 
Stir  well,  strain  and  serve.  CeLia  McDonald. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  place  over  a  slow  fire  and  stir  lightly  for  two  minutes,  adding  a 
pinch  of  sugar  and  salt  and  one  teacupful  of  cream.  Stir  well  again  for 
two  minutes,  to  avoid  its  coming  to  a  boil.    Serve  at  once.      Inez  Hall. 

QIBLET  SAUCE. 

Take  the  liver,  heart,  izard  and  neck  of  a  chicken,  wash  and  boil 
in  water  that  has  been  salted.     Let  boil  till  tender.     Take  them  out  with 

414 


MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  AND  GARNISHINGS.  415 

a  skimmer  and  chop  Into  coarse  pieces.  Put  them  back,  add  a  Httle  but- 
ter and  thicken  to  a  cream.  Pepper  and  salt,  boil  a  couple  of  minutes  and 
serve.  Mrs.  F.  T.  White. 

HERB  SAUCE. 

A    tablespoonful    of   finely-chopped  parsley  and  a  tablespoonful  of 

chopped  onion,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper.     Stir 

it  together  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  three  or  four  minutes.     Pour  in  a 

pint  of  white  sauce  and  stir  till  it  boils  hard.     Then  serve. 

Mrs.  Kate  Fleming. 
BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Put  about  one-half  pound  of  butter  into  a  tin  dish  or  a  bowl.  Stand 
the  dish  in  water  that  is  boiling  hard  and  take  it  from  the  fire  when  the 
butter  has  melted.  Strain  it  through  a  very  fine  sieve,  and  do  not  let  any 
of  the  sediment  in  the  dish  mix  with  it.  Stir  in  a  little  salt  and  send  to 
the  table  in  a  dish  that  has  been  heated.  Mrs.  Mary  Holland. 

CURRY  SAUCE. 

The  powder  for  this  sauce  can  be  procured  ready  at  most  druggists. 
To  make  the  sauce  take  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  curry-powder,  a  large  slice  of  onion,  a  large  cup- 
ful of  stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cut  the  onion  fine  and  fry  brown  in 
the  butter.  Add  flour  and  curry-powder.  Stir  a  minute,  add  the  stock, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  simmer  five  minutes.  Strain  and  serve. 
This  sauce  is  designed  for  broiled  meats  or  fish. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  O'Connor. 
OYSTER    SAUCE. 

Let  a  pint  of  oysters  heat  in  their  own  liquor  till  they  begin  to  ruffle. 
Skim  out  into  a  hot  dish,  add  a  teacupful  of  milk  or  cream  to  the  liquor 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  butter,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt. 
Thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  boil  up  and  add  the  oysters.  This 
sauce  is  suitable  for  fish,  boiled  turkey,  chickens,  or  any  white  meats 
boiled.  Mrs.  Maude  Williams. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Put  the  berries,  after  picking  over  and  washing,  into  a  saucepan  just 
covered  with  water  and  stew  slowly  over  a  good  fire.  Stir  often,  mashing 
the  fruit  all  you  can.  When  they  are  mashed,  which  will  take  about  one- 
half  hour,  take  them  from  the  fire  and  add  the  sugar  (nearly  a  pound  to  a 
quart  of  berries)  stirring  it  till  it  has  all  dissolved.  Press  all  the  fruit 
through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  put  what  passes  through  into  a  dish  or  mold. 

Mrs.  Amy  Randall. 


416  MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  AND  GARNISHINGS. 

MINT  SAUCE. 

Take  the  leaves  from  the  mint  that  grows  in  the  garden.  Pick  and 
clean  and  chop.  Put  in  a  deep  dish  with  an  ounce  of  sugar,  one-half  tum- 
blerful of  vinegar  and  one-half  tumblerful  of  water.  Stir  slightly  and  pour 
into  a  sauce  boat.     Keep  it  on  ice  before  using.     For  spring  lamb. 

Mrs.  Coleman. 
SALMON  SAUCE. 

Yolk  of  one  egg,  well  beaten,  one-half  cupful  of  vinegar.  Stir  in 
rapidly  one-half  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  cool 
and  put  over  salmon.  Helen  Fleming. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Cook  the  tomatoes  a  few  moments,  adding  salt,  cloves  and  nutmeg. 
Strain  them  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
browned  flour  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  E.  }.  C. 

WHITE  BECHANEL  SAUCE. 

One  quart  of  good  white  stock  can  be  placed  in  a  stew-pan  with  an 

onion,  a  few  mushrooms,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  parsley,  a  blade  of  mace  and  a 

little  salt;  boil  till  it  has  extracted  the  flavor  of  the  herbs  and  the  stock  is 

reduced  to  about  one-half — then  strain.     Put  one  pint  of  thick  or  double 

cream  into  a  clean  stew-pan,  mix  the  reduced  stock  very  gradually  with 

it,  and  stir  all  the  time  over  a  slow  fire  until  it  thickens.     If  the  ordinary 

thin  cream  be  used  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot  very  smoothly  into 

it  and  let  simmer  slowly  five  minutes  before  adding  it  to  stock. 

Laura  Higbee. 
BROWN  SAUCE. 

Brown  slowly  in  a  saucepan  one-half  pound  of  butter,  then  mix  with  it 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  parsley,  chopped 
very  fine,  and  pepper  and  salt.  This  sauce  accompanies  eggs,  fish  and 
calf's  head.  Mrs.  Celia  Oades. 

GERHAN  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

Mix  well  together  two  ounces  of  butter  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of 
flour.  Put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar;  stir  for  a  minute  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  keeping  up  the  stirring  until  the  mixture  thickens.  It  must  not 
boil,  and  when  ready  to  serve  pour  into  it  one-half  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Make  this  sauce  in  a  small  glazed  crock  set  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  F.  McFhee. 


MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  AND  GARNISHINGS.  417 

TARTAR  SAUCE. 

One  cupful  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  six  sour  pickles,  one-half  bottle  of 
capers,  one-half  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  medium-sized  raw  onion,  a 
little  green  parsley.  Chop  all  together  very  fine  and  mix  with  the  mayon- 
naise dressing.  Ivy  White. 

TARTAR  SAUCE— No.  2. 

Wash  and  mince  finely  four  young  onions;  put  them  into  a  mortar 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  the  hard-boiled 
yolks  of  two  eggs.  Pound  these  ingredients  until  quite  smooth.  Put 
them  into  a  bowl  and  mix  with  them  gradually  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
pure  salad  oil.  The  oil  should  be  put  in  first  in  drops,  and  afterwards  in 
teaspoonfuls  and  the  sauce  should  be  well  beaten  between  each  addition. 
If  this  point  is  carefully  attended  to  there  will  be  no  danger  of  the  sauce 
curdling.  When  the  oil  is  thoroughly  incorporated,  add  three  dessert- 
spoonfuls of  best  vinegar  and  one  of  chilli  vinegar.  Mrs.  S.  Lampin. 

CURRY-POWDER. 

Curry-powder  is  a  favorite  dish  with  those  who  have  resided  in  hot 
climates,  and  is  very  much  liked  as  a  seasoning.  It  can  be  prepared 
easily.  Take  one  ounce  of  ginger,  one  ounce  of  mustard  seed,  one  ounce 
of  pepper,  three  ounces  of  coriander  seed,  three  ounces  of  tumeric,  one- 
half  ounce  of  cardamoms,  one-fourth  of  an  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  one- 
fourth  of  an  ounce  of  cummin  seed;  pound  fine  and  sift.  These  can  be 
procured  at  any  druggist's.  Carrie  Earle. 

TART  BEEF  SAUCE. 

Four  shallots  finely  chopped,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Place  in  a  stew-pan  and  stir  over  the  fire  with 
a  wooden  spoon  till  the  butter  becomes  clear,  then  add  one  ounce  of  flour 
and  stir  in  for  three  or  four  minutes.  Now  take  one  pint  of  common 
stock  broth,  a  little  coloring,  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  boil  all  together  fif- 
teen minutes;  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  gherkins,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley.  Boil  up  together,  skim  and  serve  in  a 
sauce  tureen.     A  nice  sauce  for  roast  beef.  Catherine  Hall. 

MUSHROOn  SAUCE. 

Dissolve  one-half  teaspoonful  of  Liebig's  beef  extract  in  one-half  pint 
of  boiling  water.  Fry  one  minced  onion  and  one  chopped  carrot  in  a 
little  butter  or  dripping  until  lightly  browned;  pour  the  liquid  over  them, 
let  all  boil  together  for  ten  minutes  and  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  mush- 
room ketchup,  skim,  strain,  and  it  is  ready  for  table.  Lucy  Willis. 


418  MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  AND  GARNISHINGS. 

WHITE  SAUCE. 

A  tablespoonful  of  butter  is  placed  in  a  saucepan.  As  soon  as  it  bub- 
bles add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  stir  it  for  five  minutes,  when  it  may 
be  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  a  cupful  of  milk  poured  in,  the  stir- 
ring going  on  all  the  time.  Use  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Water  can  be 
used  where  the  milk  is  called  for,  or  more  butter  may  be  added.  Some 
like  an  e^g,  but  it  must  cool  a  little  before  this  is  put  in  and  then 
be  cooked  a  minute  or  so  afterward.  Hannah  Fay. 

nUSHROOM  SAUCE— No.  2. 

Pare  and  chop  off  the  roots  of  one  dozen  small  mushrooms,  put  in  a 
saucepan  with  two  cupfuls  of  stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  for 
thirty  minutes;  thicken  and  serve.  Mrs.  A.  Curtiss. 

EGG  SAUCE. 

Take  one-half  pint  of  veal  or  any  white  broth,  thicken  it  with  two 
ounces  of  butter  blended  with  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  flour;  add,  when 
it  boils,  some  minced  parsley,  three  eggs  boiled  hard  and  chopped  sep- 
arately, yolks  from  whites,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  squeeze 
of  lemon  juice.  Take  the  sauce  off  the  fire  and  stir  into  it  another  ounce 
of  butter.  Serve  in  a  tureen.  If  liked,  the  ^gg  whites  only  may  be  stirred 
into  the  sauce;  the  hard  yolks  may  be  pressed  through  a  wire  sieve  upon 
the  meat.     This  is  a  nice  sauce  for  calf's  head.  Phebe. 

EGG  SAUCE— No.  2. 

This  sauce  is  to  serve  with  boiled  fish.     Take  a  small  cupful  of  butter, 

and  rub  into  it  one-half  teaspoonful  of  flour,  then  pour  upon  it  about  a  gill 

of  boiling  water,  stirring  it  fast.     Let  it  boil  up  once.     If  it  is  allowed  to 

boil  long  it  will  become  oily.     Pour  it  over  two  eggs  boiled  hard  and  cut 

fine.  S.  E.  W. 

SHALLOT   SAUCE. 

Chop  three  young  onions  very  fine,  add  a  little  pepper,  a  small  tea- 
spoonful of  cider  vinegar  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons.  This  is  a  fine 
sauce  for  oysters  on  the  half-shell.  E,  L.  S. 

CAPER  SAUCE. 

Take  one  ounce  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  add  a  glassful  of 
cold  water,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  saucepan  on  back  of  stove,  stir  now 
and  then,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  beat  till  smooth.  Add  two  ounces  of 
butter  and  one  tablesi)Oonful  of  capers.  This  should  be  served  in  a  hot 
bowl.  E.  F.  I. 


MEAT  AXD  FISH  SAUCES  AXD  GARXISHIXGS.  419 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE. 

Cut  up  all  sorts  of  soup  vegetables,  with  two  cloves  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg.  Cook  them  in  butter  but  do  not  let  them  brown.  Boil  one  quart 
of  milk  with  a  little  salt  and  sugar.  While  it  is  boiling  add  the  mirepoix 
(the  above  vegetables),  cover  and  set  it  aside  where  it  will  not  boil  any 
more.  Make  a  roux  with  butter  and  flour,  cook  slowly  and  do  not  let  it 
bum,  for  it  must  be  white.  Add  gradually  a  sufficient  quantity  of  veal  and 
chicken  blonde.  Skim  off  all  the  fat  and  strain  through  a  fine  strainer. 
Set  aside  to  cool  but  stir  it  frequently  so  it  will  be  \^ry  smooth;  keep  in  a 
cool  place.  Mrs.  Henri  Marquise. 

H0LLANDAI5E  SAUCE. 

Rub  one-half  cupful  of  butter  to  a  cream.  Add  four  well-beaten  ^qq 
yolks,  then  the  juice  of  one-half  of  a  lemon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Pour  a  cupful  of  hot  water  in  slowly.  Mix  and 
set  it  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water.  Stir  until  the  sauce  becomes  a  thick 
cream.  Do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Stir  a  few  minutes  after  removing  from 
the  fire.     It  is  a  fine  sauce  for  fish,  asparagus,  or  cauliflower. 

Jennie  Hills. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 

Twelve  heads  of  celerj-,  twelve  green  tomatoes,  six  large  white  onions, 
two  green  peppers,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one-half  ounce  of 
curr}-powder,  three  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of 
cayenne,  five  cloves  of  garlic,  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  black  pepper,  salt  to  taste;  chop  separately,  mix  and  boil  one  and  one- 
half  hours.     Bottle  while  hot.  Mrs.  Smith. 

GARIBALDI  SAUCE. 

Four  pounds  of  tomatoes,  one  pound  of  raisins,  three  pounds  of  sugar, 
one  pound  of  apples,  one-quarter  pound  red  peppers,  one-half  pound  of 
onions,  one  lemon,  one  small  cupful  of  salx,  three  pints  of  vinegar.  Chop 
all  fine  and  cook.  Mrs.  Kell-\n. 

CHLTNEV  3AUCE. 

Select  twelve  ripe  tomatoes,  twelve  large  apples,  four  onions,  one 
pound  of  raisins  (  seedless),  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  three  green  and 
two  red  peppers,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  ginger,  one-third  of  a  tea- 
spoonful of  red  pepper  and  a  chocolate-cupful  of  salt.  Add  one  quart  of 
vinegar  and  boil  all  together  for  one  hour.  Mrs.  T.  Thompson. 


420  MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  AND  GARNISHINGS. 

GOVERNOR'S  SAUCE. 

Slice  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  heavily  with  salt  and  let 
them  stand  over  night.  Drain  well  in  the  morning;  cover  them  with 
vinegar;  simmer  them  with  six  large  onions,  three  red  peppers,  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  ginger,  pepper,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper,  a  teaspoonful 
of  mustard,  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  cupful  of  grated  horseradish. 
Let  them  all  simmer  a  little  over  two  hours.  Tillie. 

PICKLES  OF  ORANQES. 

Select  six  fine  oranges.  Cut  them  deeply,  rub  well  with  salt,  and  let 
stand  in  a  warm  place  four  days.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  coriander 
seeds  over  them  and  cover  them  with  one  and  one-half  pints  of  boiling 
vinegar  in  which  two  blades  of  mace  have  been  simmered  for  two  minutes. 
Boil  the  vinegar  once  or  twice  and  pour  it  again  upon  the  oranges,  then 
cover  the  jar  with  bladder,  and  store  for  use.  This  pickle  is  designed  for 
wild  fowl  and  should  stand  two  months  before  being  used. 

Mrs.  Hannah  Fuller. 
ONION  5AUCE. 

Peel  some  nice  white  onions  and  boil  them  tender.  Press  the  water 
from  them,  chop  them  fine,  and  add  one-half  pint  of  hot  milk.  Add  a 
little  butter,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  with  boiled 
veal,  poultry  or  mutton.  Mrs.  A.  Sears. 

RUSSIAN  SAUCE  (PIQUANT). 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  horseradish,  one  spoonful  weak  mus- 
tard, one-half  spoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
and  two  spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Mix  thoroughly  and  serve  with  cold  meat. 
When  used  for  fish  add  it  to  melted  butter — two  parts  of  butter  to  one  of 
sauce.  Mrs.  K.  Pinkham. 

SAUCE  FOR  GAME. 

Take  one-half  tumblerful  of  currant  jelly,  one-half  tumblerful  of  port 
wine,  one-half  tumblerful  of  stock,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  four  cloves,  a  little  pepper.  Simmer  the  cloves 
and  stock  together  one-half  hour.  Strain  this  over  the  other  ingredients 
and  let  all  melt  together.  Part  of  the  gravy  from  the  game  can  be  added 
to  it.  Mrs.  R.  Fish. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE. 

Put  two  teaspoonfuls  of  prepared  mustard  into  a  large  cup  and  mix 
with  it  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt  and  five 
tablespoonfuls  of  good  vinegar.     Stir  this  preparation  briskly  for  two  or 


I 


MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  AND  GARNISHINGS.  421 

three  minutes  with  a  wooden  or  silver  fork,  then  pour  it  into  a  tureen  in 
which  has  been  placed  a  stick  of  horseradish  finely  grated;  stir  the  mix- 
ture again  and  serve.  Mrs.  C.  Dixon. 

HORSERADISH   SAUCE— No.  2. 

A  delicious  sauce  is  made  from  grated  horseradish  root,  mixed  with 
lemon  juice,  a  little  salt,  and  a  suspicion  of  white  sugar.  The  lemon  is  to 
mix  the  sauce.  Served  with  cold  meats  it  makes  them  much  more  invit- 
ing and  palatable.  This  sauce  will  retain  its  flavor  for  some  time  if  kept 
well  covered  when  not  being  used  and  the  root  does  not  discolor  so 
quickly  as  when  made  in  the  old  way  with  vinegar.  Eliza  Higgins. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE— No.  3. 

A  good-sized  stick  of  horseradish  is  required,  which  should  be  grated 
into  a  bowl  and  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  salt,  one-quarter  of  a 
pint  of  cream  and  vinegar  to  taste  added.  Stir  all  well  together,  and  serve 
in  a  pickle  jar  with  roast  beef.  Carrie  Long. 

LOBSTER  SAUCE. 

Put  the  coral  and  spawn  of  a  boiled  lobster  into  a  mortar  and  pound 
to  a  smooth  paste;  melt  butter  the  size  of  a  large  ^gg,  with  a  wine-glass- 
ful of  vinegar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  prepared  mustard,  now  stir  in  the  coral 
and  spawn  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  dash  of  pepper;    mix  until  smooth. 

Mrs.  M.  p. 
APPLE  SAUCE  TO  SERVE  WITH  flEAT. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  tart  juic}^  apples  and  stew  until  tender. 
Sweeten  and  then  beat  with  a  granite  spoon  until  they  are  light  and  lump- 
less.     Serve  warm  with  roast  pork,  duck  or  goose.  Emily  B. 

ASTRAKHAN  SAUCE  TO  SERVE  WITH  MEAT  COURSE. 

Select  red  juicy  apples,  cut  in  halves,  take  out  core  but  do  not  pare; 
place  in  a  shallow  stew-pan  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  and  a  cupful  of 
white  sugar  to  every  half  dozen  apples.  Each  half  should  cook  on  the 
bottom  of  the  pan,  skin  downward  and  be  removed  from  the  others  when 
done  so  as  not  to  injure  its  shape.  Stew  slowly  until  the  pieces  are  very 
tender;  remove  to  a  platter  and  boil  the  syrup  ten  minutes  longer.  It 
will  then  be  like  jelly.  Pour  it  over  the  apples.  A  few  pieces  of  lemon 
peel  boiled  in  the  syrup  adds  to  the  flavor.  Mrs.  Lillie  T. 

CIDER  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Boil  two  quarts  of  new  cider  until  reduced  to  one,  then  put  into  it 
only  what  pared  and  quartered  apples  the  syrup  will  cover;  let  the  whole 
simmer  three  hours.  Marion. 


423  MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  AND  GARNLSHINGS. 

BLONDE  FISH  SAUCE. 

Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  stock  in  a  stew-pan  and  stew  the  follow- 
ing ingredients  one-half  hour  over  a  slow  fire:  An  onion  cut  small,  two 
mushrooms,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  lemon  thinly  sliced  and  a  glassful  of  white 
wine.  When  nearly  done  add,  by  degrees,  a  cupful  of  melted  butter  and 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten;  keep  stirring  the  pan  over  the  fire 
for  four  or  five  minutes,  but  do  not  allow  the  contents  to  boil.  Strain 
through  a  sieve  and  use  it  for  any  kind  of  fish.       Mrs.  Mattie  French. 

FISH  SOUR  SAUCE. 

Heat  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  vinegar,  stir  into  it  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  little  pepper  and  a  slice  of  fresh  butter. 
Serve  when  the  butter  is  dissolved.  Ione  Higgins. 

TO  BROWN  FLOUR. 

Spread  a  small  quantity  of  Hour  upon  a  tin  pie  plate,  set  it  upon  a 
moderately  hot  stove  and  stir  continually  until  it  is  brown.  Put  away  in 
jars  closely  covered.  It  is  frequently  called  for  in  coloring  and  thickening 
sauces.  Palmer  House  Chef. 

TO  BROWN  BUTTER. 

Put  a  piece  of  good  butter  into  a  hot  granite  pan  and  toss  until  it 
browns.  Stir  brown  Hour  into  it  until  it  is  smooth  and  quite  brown,  but 
not  scorched.     To  be  used  for  coloring  sauces.         Palmer  House  Chef. 

TO  MAKE  MUSTARD. 

Bring  to  a  boil  one-half  cupful  of  vinegar;  stir  in  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  mustard,  creamed  in  cold  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a 
salt-spoonful  of  salt.     Let  cook  two  minutes.  L.  P.  M. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  FRENCH  MUSTARD. 

Take  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  best  yellow  mustard,  pour  over  it  one- 
half  pint  each  of  water  and  vinegar.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  piece  of 
calamus  root  the  size  of  a  pea.  Put  it  on  the  fire  and  while  it  boils  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour;  let  it  boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring  it  constantly. 
Just  before  taking  it  off  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  When  cool,  put  it 
into  bottles  and  cork  tightly.  Hannah  Merriam. 


MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  AND  GARNISHINGS.  42.'} 

AROMATIC  SEASONING. 

Mix  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  thyme,  one  ounce  of  bay-leaves,  one 
ounce  of  summer  savory,  one  ounce  of  basil  and  one  and  one-half  ounces 
of  marjoram.  Dry  thoroughly  and  pick  the  leaves  from  the  stems. 
Pound  in  a  mortar  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  ounce 
of  pepper  corns,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  one  clove  of  garlic,  the  thinly-peeled 
rind  of  a  lemon,  one-half  ounce  of  mace  and  one  nutmeg  grated.  Mix 
well  together,  pass  them  through  a  sieve  and  keep  in  well-corked  bottles. 

Mrs.  F.  Foster. 
COLORING  FOR  GRAVIES. 

Take  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  put  on  a  tin  plate.  Set  on  the 
stove  till  thoroughly  brown.  Add  one-half  cupful  of  water  and  let  boil  for 
a  few  minutes.     Strain  and  bottle.     This  will  keep  for  months. 

E.  F.  P. 
HERBS  FOR  WINTER. 

To  preserve  herbs  for  winter  use  such  as  sage,  mint,  thyme,  or  any  of 
the  sweet  herbs.  They  should  be  gathered  fresh  in  their  season  after  a 
good  rain.  Examine  and  throw  out  poor  sprigs;  then  tie  up  into  small 
bundles  and  hang  bottom-side  up  until  dry  in  a  warm  airy  place.  When 
dry  and  brittle  pick  off  the  leaves;  put  them  in  a  clean  can  and  cover. 
When  wanted  for  use  rub  and  sift.  Prudent  Housewife. 

SAUCE   ACCOMPANIMENTS  FOR  VARIOUS  MEATS. 

Roast  beef  should  be  accompanied  with  tomato  sauce,  horseradish 
sauce,  mustard,  cranberry  sauce  or  pickles. 

Roast  pork:  With  apple  sauce,  cranberry  sauce,  mustard. 

Roast  veal:  Tomato  sauce,  mushroom  sauce,  onion  sauce  and 
spinach. 

Roast  mutton:  Mint  sauce,  currant  jelly,  caper  sauce. 

Boiled  mutton:  Onion  or  caper  sauce. 

Boiled  fowls:  Onion  sauce,  cranberry  sauce,  jellies. 

Roast  lamb:  Mint  sauce,  green  peas. 

Roast  turkey:  Cranberry  sauce,  giblet  sauce,  creamed  onions,  currant 
jelly. 

Boiled  turkey:  Oyster  sauce. 

Venison  or  wild  ducks:  Cranberry  sauce,  apple  sauce,  drawn-butter 
and  lemon  sauce,  currant  jelly. 

Stewed  chicken:  Curry-powder,  egg  sauce. 

Roast  goose:  Apple  sauce,  cranberry  sauce,  grape  or  currant  jelly. 


434  MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  AND  GARNISHINGS. 

Broiled  steak:  Mushroom  sauce. 

Boiled  fish:  White  cream  sauce,  herb  sauce,  lemon  sauce. 
Boiled  lobster:  Lobster  sauce,  slices  of  lemon. 

Broiled  shad:  Mushroom  sauce,  German  sauce,  parsley  or  ^g^  sauce. 
Pickles  of  all  kinds,  salted  almonds,  olives  and  most  of  compotes  are  ^ 
suitable  with  all  roast  and  boiled  meats.  Mrs.  White. 


Garnishing;s. 


The  simplest  method  of  garnishing  roasts,  game  and  fowl  is  with 
fresh  parsley.  Put  nice  little  sprays  here  and  there  around  the  outer 
edge  of  the  platter  and  also  on  top  of  the  meat.  Slices  of  lemon 
are  especially  nice  for  fish  while  capers  are  appropriate  for  leg  of  mutton, 
and  sprigs  of  mint  for  lamb. 

GREEN  PEAS  FOR  GARNISH. 

Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  teaspoonful  of  filour  into  a 
stew-pan,  mix  well  over  the  fire,  then  stir  in  one  cupful  of  cooked  peas. 
Stir  over  the  fire  for  two  or  three  minutes  and  when  thoroughly  hot,  serve 
on  platter  with  roast  lamb.  Millie  Van  Ness. 

TURNIPS  OR  CARROTS    FOR  GARNISH. 

Peel  and  cook  one-half  dozen  turnips  and  then  cut  them  into  any  fancy 
shape  desired,  such  as  cubes,  balls,  etc.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
little  broth;  season  with  salt,  sugar  and  pepper;  boil  till  soft  and  use  as 
garnish.  L.  B.  M. 

CARROTS   FOR  GARNI5H. 

Clean  young  carrots,  rub  off  their  skin  and  trim  them  with  a  knife  in 
fancy  shapes.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  beef  or  chicken  broth;  add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  a  pinch  of  sugar  and  boil  till  done.  Thicken 
a  trifle  and  serve  with  boiled  beef.  Mrs.  A.  B.  W. 

OLIVES  FOR  GARNISH. 

(Spanish  Style.) 

Select  large  olives,  remove  the  stones  from  one-half  cupful,  by  cutting 
them  round  and  round  in  spiral  shape  so  as  to  retain  their  shape.  Put 
them  in  a  saucepan,  pour  in  some  white  stock  and  stew  slowly  until  the 
olives  are  tender.     A  garnish  for  roasts.  I.  M.  Sterns. 

HAM  FOR  GARNISH. 

Scald  two  small  slices  of  ham,  cut  into  squares.  Put  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan  and  when  hot  lay  in  the  ham;    add  a  little 


MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  AND  GARNISHINGS.  425 

parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  two  thin  slices  of  lemon  cut  in  quarters. 
Fry  until  a  light  brown  color.     A  nice  garnish  for  game.  J.  C. 

GARNISH  FOR  SALADS. 

Garnish  for  salads  is  spoken  of  more  at  length  under  Salads — both 
meat  and  vegetable — but  it  is  not  out  of  place  to  add  here  that  hard-boiled 
eggs  sliced  or  cut  lengthwise  are  a  most  appropriate  as  well  as  appetizing 
finish  to  the  ornamenting  of  a  salad.  Beets  boiled  and  cut  dice  shape, 
capers  and  powdered  cheese,  all  add  to  the  looks  and  therefore  flavor. 

Mrs.  Gregory. 

GARNISH  FOR  PUDDINGS. 

It  is  generally  understood  by  all  housewives  that  desserts  and  pud- 
dings of  all  kinds  are  more  appetizing  in  looks,  and  hence  more  palatable, 
when  they  come  on  the  table  in  an  attractive  manner.  Steamed  plum 
puddings  when  in  mold  and  reversed  on  a  pudding  platter  and  scattered 
over  with  a  few  plums  halved,  a  cherry  pudding  strewed  with  a  few  fresh 
or  candied  cherries,  or  a  shortcake  the  inside  of  which  is  filled  with  slightly 
crushed  berries,  is  greatly  enhanced  in  looks  when  surrounded  with  a  few 
elegant,  large,  juicy-looking  berries.  It  is  not  always  the  elaborate  con- 
coction of  a  dish  that  strikes  home  to  the  heart;  but  the  beauty  and  the 
simplicity.  Mrs.  Gregory. 


]^USHES  and  CATSUPS 

TOMATO   CHUTNEY. 

THIRTY  tomatoes,  six,  apples,  chopped, 
six  onions,  red  peppers,  one  pound  of 
raisins,  two  onions,  ten  ounces  of  salt,  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  four  ounces 
of  ginger  and  three  pints  of  cider  vinegar. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Hudson. 
INDIA  RELI5H. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one-half 
head  of  cabbage,  twelve  green  peppers,  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
cloves,  one  table-spoonful  of  cinnamon  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  allspice.  Chop  the  toma- 
toes, put  one-half  cupful  of  salt  over  them  and 
let  drain  for  twenty-four  hours,  then  add  three 
onions,  the  cabbage  and  peppers,  all  well 
Put  spices  in  a  bag  and  add  the  sugar.     Cover  well  with  cider 

Mrs.  Cole. 


chopped 

vinegar  and  let  it  simmer  for  four  hours 


GREEN  TOMATO  SOY. 

Take  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  slice  them  thin,  add  one  pint  of  salt. 
Let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours,  strain,  and  put  over  the  fire  with  twelve 
raw  onions,  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  one  ounce  of  allspice,  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  of  ground  mustard,  one-half  pound  of  white  mustard  seed  and 
a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Cover  the  whole  with  vinegar  and  boil  till  as 
thick  as  a  jam,  stirring  occasionally  with  a  wooden  spoon,  to  prevent 
burning.  Katie  Upton. 

RIPE  TOMATO  SOY. 

One  peck  of  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced,  one  cupful  of  salt;  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours;  drain  off  liquor  and  add  one  head  of  celery,  eight 
onions,  chopped  fine,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  each  of 
ground  mustard,  ginger,  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  and  one-half  spoonful 
of  cayenne  pepper;  stew  slowly  two  hours;  when  nearly  done  add  one 
pound  of  sugar  and  one-quarter  pound  of  white  mustard  seed. 

Mrs.  Milburn. 
420 


^U  BOUGH  "KUTJ 


COLD  ^UCED  CHICKEK 

AND     TONOUE 


GOLD  PIGEON  ?I 


PICNICS  AND  LUNCHEONS. 


The  recipes  for  making  the  above  dishes  and  hundreds  of  others  are  contained  within 

this  book. 


RELISHES  AND  CATSUPS.  429 

CHILLI  SAUCE. 

Take  a  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  skin  and  cut  up  coarse  into  kettle. 
Take  six  large  onions,  five  large  green  peppers,  and  a  good-sized  bunch 
of  celery,  cutting  them  all  up.  Put  all  on  to  boil,  adding  about  a  pint  of 
cold  water.  Boil  slowly  four  to  five  hours.  Add  one  small  teacupful  of 
salt,  one  pint  of  cold  vinegar,  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper  and  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  all  these  together  one  hour.  Then 
bottle  it.  It  must  never  stop  boiling.  If  you  use  canned  tomatoes  four 
cans  equal  one  peck  of  whole  ones.  Maggie  Green. 

CHILLI   SAUCE-No.  2. 

Three  teacupfuls  of  vinegar,  twelve  tomatoes  chopped,  three  peppers 
chopped  fine,  two  large  onions  chopped  fine  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  simmer  on  back 
part  of  stove  two  hours.     Very  nice.  Mrs.  Carrie  Vroman. 

CHOW=CHOW. 

For  Chow-Chow  and  Piccalilli  see  Department  of  "Pickles." 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

One -half  bushel  of  tomatoes,  one  teacupful  of  salt.  Boil  and  strain 
through  a  coarse  sieve.  Add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cloves, 
one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  allspice  and  four  dashes  of  cayenne.  Boil 
down  to  five  quarts.  Bottle  while  hot  and  pour  over  a  teaspoonful  of  olive 
oil  before  corking.  H.  F.  L. 

TOMATO  CATSUP— No.  2. 

One  bushel  of  tomatoes,  three  onions,  two  large  red  peppers,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cloves,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  allspice,  one  tablespoonful 
of  mace,  one  and  one-half  whole  black  peppers  and  salt  to  taste.  Cut  and 
heat  the  tomatoes  until  they  are  soft  enough  to  strain.  After  straining 
put  in  the  ingredients  and  boil  down  one-half;  then  strain  through  a 
colander,  cork  and  seal  in  heated  bottles.  Mrs.  M.  H.  Skinner. 

TOMATO  CATSUP— No.  3. 

To  one  gallon  of  strained  tomatoes,  put  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one 
large  cupful  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  pepper,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
mustard,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  mixed  spices, 
one  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper.  Boil  till  thick  and  then  strain  it  again. 
Bottle  and  set  away.  Mrs.  M.  Dawson. 

QRAPE  CATSUP. 

Wash  and  stew  ten  pounds  of  fruit  over  a  slow  fire  until  soft.  Then 
strain  through  a  sieve  and  add  nine   cupfuls  of    granulated  sugar,  two 


430  RELISHPS  AND  CATSUPS. 

teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  allspice,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  ground  black  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  two  quarts 
of  cider  vinegar.     Boil  until  a  little  thick  and  bottle.  Lettie  T 

CUCUHBER  CATSUP. 

Peel  and  grate  one  dozen  green  cucumbers,  add  two  chopped  onions, 
one-third  of  a  teacupful  of  salt  and  drain  over  night.  Then  add  one-third 
of  a  cupful  of  mustard  seed,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper  and 
cover  with  cider  vinegar.     Fine  for  corned  mutton.  J.  Smiley. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP— No.  2. 

Grate  six  fairly  ripe  cucumbers  and  drain  in  a  colander.  Mince  two 
small  onions;  mix  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  horseradish  and  same  of 
white  mustard  seed.  Pour  over  enough  cider  vinegar  to  make  quite  juicy. 
Do  not  cook.     This  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  some  time. 

LiNNiE  Beattie. 
GOOSEBERRY   CATSUP. 

Make  same  as  grape  catsup,  being  sure  to  gather  fruit  before  it  is  too 
ripe.  Lillie  T. 

PLUM  CATSUP. 

Make  same  as  grape  catsup.  Lillie  T. 

CURRANT  OR  GRAPE  CATSUP. 

Boil  fifteen  minutes  one-half  pint  of  vinegar,  three  pounds  of  sugar, 
five  pounds  of  ripe  currants,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
stir  the  currants,  strain  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Berries  are  good 
also.  Marion  C.  Packard. 

CURRANT  CATSUP. 

Eight  pounds  of  currants,  eight  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  pepper  and  allspice.  Boil  in  a  granite 
kettle  until  just  thick  enough  to  run  freely  from  a  spoon.     Seal. 

MrSo  L.  p.  M. 
CRAB-APPLE  CATSUP. 

Select  sound  apples;  peel  and  quarter  two  quarts;  stew  them  until 
tender  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  then  press  through  a  sieve.  To  a  quart 
of  the  sifted  apple  add  two  teacupf uls  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  pepper, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cloves,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon  and  three  large 
onions  chopped  fine.  Stir  all  together  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt 
and  cider  vinegar  enough  to  cover.     Place  over  slow  fire  and  boil  one 


iiour. 


Seal  while  hot.  F.  P.  E. 


MOST  persons  to-day  who  reside  in  large  cities  and  have  means  at 
command  endeavor,  during  the  heated  season,  to  get  away  for  a 
few  weeks  to  the  country,  seashore,  mountains  or  inland  lakes  where 
good,  wholesome  living  and  pure  air  can  be  enjoyed.  "Roughing  it"  has 
become  quite  a  fad  and  when  we  consider  that  the  idea  includes  not  only 
change  of  location,  but  change  of  dress,  healthy  exercise  and  simple  liv- 
ing, we  must  all  admit  that  it  is  a  good  thing  for  mankind.  Scores,  in 
flocking  hither,  camp  out  or  build  cottages,  others  accept  the  hospitality 
offered  by  the  "Summer  Hotels,"  an  institution  made  necessary  by  the 
advance  of  time. 

HOW  TO  ARRANGE  THE  STOVE. 

In  camping  out  the  most  important  thing  aside  from  the  tent  is  the 
stove.  The  top  of  a  common  cooking  stove  with  stove  pipe  to  fit  is  just 
the  thing,  although  stoves  can  be  purchased  on  purpose  for  camping  at  a 
cost  of  three  or  four  dollars.  Dig  out  a  hole  in  the  bank  the  size  and 
shape  of  the  stove  and  line  all  with  stones  except  the  front.  Regulate  the 
draught  by  placing  something  in  front  for  a  blower.  Some  prefer  the 
gasoline  or  oil  stoves. 

Coffee  and  tea  pots  should  not  have  spouts,  but  lips;  and  the  lips 
should  be  riveted  on,  as  as  not  to  melt  off.  Tin  plates  and  cups  can  be 
kept  clean  by  occasionally  scouring  them  with  ashes  or  sand. 

PROVISIONS    FOR  CAMP  LIFE. 

These  will  depend  much  upon  the  locality  and  the  requirements  of 
the  campers;  the  following  suggestions  may  be  serviceable  in  making  up 
an  outfit: 

Plenty  of  wheat,  rye  and  graham  flour,  also  corn-meal.  Bacon, 
smoked  ham,  bologna  sausage,  eggs,  dried  beef,  salt  fish.  Crackers, 
panned  fruit  and  vegetables,  where  fresh  cannot  be  obtained.     Potatoes, 

431 


432  HOW  AND  WHAT  TO  COOK  WHEN  CAMPING  OUT. 

beans,  onions,  molasses,  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  mustard,  vinegar,  lard,  but- 
ter, coffee,  tea,  chocolate,  rice,  oat-meal,  baking-soda,  ginger,  soap, 
kerosene  oil  and  candles. 

NECESSARY  UTENSILS. 

The  necessary  utensils  are  coffee  pot,  spiders,  kettles,  bakers,  gridiron, 
basins,  cups,  pails,  knives,  forks,  spoons,  lanterns,  ropes,  bags,  strings, 
needles,  thread,  matches,  shovel,  axe,  hammer,  nails,  fishing  tackle, 
gun  and  ammunition,  towels  and  flannel  clothing. 

Most  of  the  recipes  in  other  parts  of  this  book  are  appropriate  for 
camp  life  but  we  give  under  this  head  a  few  that  are  especially  appro- 
priate for  out-door  cooking. 

In  camp  life  small  and  large  birds  should  be  either  roasted,  stewed  or 
broiled.  Pick  off  the  feathers  and  draw  them.  Wash  carefully.  If  for 
roasting,  tie  the  legs  down  and  place  in  the  pan.  Sprinkle  with  flour, 
cover  the  bottom  with  water  and  roast  thirty  minutes.  Oven  must  be 
very  hot.  A.  M.  Johnson. 

BIRDS  ROASTED  IN  THEIR  FEATHERS. 
(Hunter's  Style.) 

Open  the  bird  in  the  usual  manner,  and  draw;  then  cover  with  wet 
clay  and  bury  in  hot  coals.  In  forty-five  minutes  draw  from  the  coals  and 
peel  off  the  clay.  Feathers  and  skin  will  come  at  same  time.  Delicious 
cooked  in  this  manner.  A.  M.  J. 

STEWED    PATRIDQES,  PIGEONS  OR  GROUSE. 

Place  two  partridges  in  a  small  kettle  and  dredge  with  salt,  pepper 
and  flour  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Cover  tight  and  let  simmer  two 
hours.  Thicken  with  flour  and  stir  in  two  spoonfuls  of  catsup;  simmer 
one  hour  longer,  and  serve.  A.  M.  J. 

BROILED  BIRDS. 

Split  and  clean;  wipe  and  broil  over  a  hot  fire — if  small,  ten  minutes; 
if  large,  fifteen.     Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.     Serve  on  toast. 

A.  M.  J. 
FISH  BAKED  IN  THEIR  SCALES. 

Take  out  the  insides,  wash  and  close  up  again,  first  seasoning  a  little 
with  salt.  Leave  on  the  head,  fins  and  scales.  Cover  with  wet  clay  and 
bury  in  hot  coals  and  bake  one  hour.  The  time  depending,  of  course, 
upon  the  size,  a  longer  time  for  a  larger  fish.  When  done  peal  off  the 
clay  (at  which  time  the  scales  will  also  come  off),  open  up,  lay  flat  on  the 
back  and  lift  out  the  bones.  Then  take  off  the  head,  season,  and  it  is 
ready  to  serve.     It  is  unequaled  in  flavor.  William  H.  Brooks, 


HOW  AND  WHAT  TO   COOK  WHEN  CAMPING  OUT.  433 

BROOK  TROUT. 

(Angler  Style.) 

If  you  cook  brook  trout  as  the  angler  does,  split  to  the  tail  and  clean. 
Wash  and  drain.  For  a  dozen  large  trout  fry  six  slices  of  salt  pork 
brown,  take  out  and  put  in  the  trout.  Fry  a  nice  brown  and  serve  with 
the  pork.  Louis  Hamilton. 

CLAn=BAKE. 

A  party  of  twenty  will  require  a  bushel  of  clams,  which  should  be 
gathered,  if  possible,  the  day  before.  Leave  on  the  shell,  place  in  a  tub 
and  cover  with  clean  water.  Into  the  water  throw  about  one  quart  of 
Indian  meal.  This  fattens  them.  When  time  to  use  wash  thoroughl}^  in 
two  or  more  waters.  Clean  one  fresh  cod  nicely,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  wrap  in  a  clean  cloth.  Clean  also  a  live  lobster.  Wash  plenty 
of  potatoes,  cut  off  the  ends,  peel  a  generous  lot  of  onions,  husk  some 
green  corn  (leaving  on  the  inner  husk  to  keep  it  clean)  and  all  is  ready  for 
the  oven. 

Make  the  oven  of  flat  stones  placed  together  in  the  form  of  a  square, 
about  two  and  one-half  feet  each  way;  around  the  inside  of  this  place 
other  stones  to  form  a  bin.  Fill  this  bin  with  small  sticks.  On  these  pile 
larger  sticks,  crosswise,  and  on  top  of  these  a  layer  of  stones.  Start  the 
fire,  allowing  it  to  burn  down  until  the  stones  which  are  on  top  settle  into 
the  coals.  Clean  out  quickly  all  the  cinders  with  a  poker,  then  cover  the 
stones  with  a  green  seaweed  about  one  and  one-half  inches  thick.  Have 
read}^  the  clams,  spread  them  on  top  of  the  seaweed,  then  the  vegetables, 
then  the  fish  and  a  live  lobster.  Cover  the  whole  with  a  piece  of  cotton 
cloth  to  keep  out  dirt;  then  cover  with  seaweed  until  no  steam  can  escape. 
Bake  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove  the  covering  from  one  corner  at  a 
time  only — so  that  the  rest  may  keep  hot — and  all  hands  take  hold  and 
help  themselves.  J.  Jefferson. 

BEAN=BAKE. 

(Outing  Style.) 

Build  an  oven  in  much  the  same  way  as  for  a  clam-bake,  except  have 
it  rofend  and  of  a  size  to  accommodate  a  large  iron  kettle  in  which  the 
beans  are  to  be  baked.  Prepare  the  coals  as  also  for  clam-bake  and  have 
ready  five  or  six  quarts  of  beans,  as  the  case  may  be,  cleaned,  parboiled 
and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  molasses.  In  the  center  and  on  top 
of  the  beans,  place  two  pounds,  more  or  less,  of  good  salt  pork  cross  cut. 
Xow  put  the  kettle,  with  cover,  containing  the  beans  on  the  live  coals, 
cover  up  with   fresh  grass  and  let  cook  fifteen  hours.     Have  ready  some 


434  HOW  AND  IVBAT  TO  COOK  WHEN  CAMPING  OUT. 

good  warm  steamed  brown  bread,  delicious  butter,  and  all  fall  to,  for  a 
feast  is  at  hand.  Mrs.  C.  I.  Eastman. 

CORN  DODGERS. 

Take  three  teacupfuls  of  corn-meal,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  table-   i| 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  pour  on  boiling  water  enough  to  wet  it;  then  make 
into  small,  flat  cakes  about  one  inch  thick,  and  fry  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes in  boilmg;  fat.     To  be  eaten  very  hot.     Fine.  John  Smith. 

CORN  CAKE. 

Three  teacupfuls  of  corn-meal,  a  generous  pinch  of  salt,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  wet  with  boiling  v^2X^x  and 
then  beat  in  one  egg.  Spread  one-half  inch  deep  on  buttered  tins  and 
bake  brown  in  a  quick  oven.     Delicious.  Mrs.  John  Smith. 

ROAST  POTATOES. 

"Of  all  the  potatoes  I  ever  tasted,"  said  Stanley,  on  his  return  trom  an 
outing  trip  in  Michigan,  "roasted  potatoes  are  the  best."  Let  the  coals  get 
red  hot,  cover  with  hot  ashes  and  lay  on  one  dozen  or  more  (with  jackets 
on,  but  clean)  as  the  needs  of  the  company  require,  and  over  them  put  on 
more  ashes  and  then  red-hot  coals.  Let  stand  twenty-five  minutes.  Take 
out,  wipe  clean,  crush  open  and  drop  in  a  speck  of  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  salt.     Try  them,  I  did  and  they  are  fine.  Stanley's  Mother. 


'^Nor  love,  nor  hofior,  wealth  nor  power 
Can  give  the  heart  a  cheerful  hour 
When  health  is  lost.     Be  timely  wise. 
With  health  all  taste  of  pleasure  flies'' 


.--^■&b 


.^ 


WHAT  HAKES  HEALTH? 

IT  IS  a  matter  of  no  small  importance 
that  we  well  consider  the  subject — 
how  can  we  best  supply  the  human  family 
with  a  food  that  will  perform  the  mission  of 
strengthening  and  at  the  same  time  the  mis- 
sion of  enriching  life  ? 

Vegetarianism  has,  from  the  first,  steadily 
pursued  Its  way,  making  no  loud  boasts, 
but  drawing  converts  to  its  theories  until  to-day  there  are  hundreds  in 
every  state  in  the  Union.  Vegetarians  build  their  theory  on  the  single 
fact  that  all  nutritive  matter  is  formed  by  vegetables;  that  although 
animals  appropriate  nutrition  they  never  form  it,  and  that  when  men  eat 
animal  food,  they  take  on  the  unhealthy  conditions  of  the  very  animal 
they  feed  upon. 

People  say  that  man  requires  a  certain  amount  of  fat.  Well,  so  he 
does,  but  here  again  comes  the  vegetarian  who  says  that  "  the  vegetable 
world  furnishes  it  generously.  Seeds  and  nuts  have  been  found  far  supe- 
rior to  animal  fats." 

Flesh  eaters  also  bring  forward  the  argument  that  animal  food  must 
be  more  readily  assimilated  than  vegetable,  because  the  people  who  live 
upon  it  are  generally  fleshy.  This  the  vegetarians  claim  is  a  false  theory. 
To  be  well  nourished  is  to  replenish  tissues,  not  to  accumulate  fat.  The 
increase  of  flesh  beyond  a  proper  amount  becomes  a  disease,  and  they  ask 

436 


HEALTH  PARAMOUNT  TO  ALL  ELSE.  437 

if  "  it  is  not  a  fact  that  thin  people  will  endure  illness  far  better  than  those 
whose  adipose  tissue  is  extreme  ?" 

From  a  humane  point  as  well  as  a  health  point  of  view,  vegetarianism 
has  made  many  converts.  Thousands  who  are  not  quite  ready  to  declare 
themselves  vegetarians  have  diminished  their  use  of  meat  very^  materially 
within  the  last  year.  By  this  means,  a  demand  for  fruits,  cereals,  vege- 
tables and  nuts  has  sprung  up  that  we  hope  will  bring  its  reward  in 
increased  health  and  greater  mental  activity. 

It  is  true  that  the  whole  earth  teems  with  fine  food  and  it  will  ever 
3-ield  bounteously  to  her  children.  Xo  article  of  diet  supplies  nutriment 
so  cheaply  and  with  less  trouble  than  cereals  and  vegetables.  Take,  for 
instance  Indian  corn.  At  the  time  America  was  discovered  the  inhabitants 
lived  almost  exclusively  upon  this  cereal.  Rice  furnishes  more  human 
beings  nourishment  than  an}-  other  article  in  existence.  In  the  vegetable 
world,  there  need  be  no  adulterations.  The  articles  can  be  produced  in 
such  quantities  that  they  should  continue  to  be  pure  and  within  the  reach 
of  all. 

Fruits,  of  which  there  is  a  bewildering  variet}-,  have  a  large  place  in 
the  list  of  health  preservers.  Ever}^  fruit  contains  substances  designed 
to  inspire  and  humanize  its  votar3\  The  juices  are  cool  and  healing  and 
greatl}-  assist  in  digestion. 

Nuts  also  are  nature's  choicest  food  products,  and  were  doubtless 
intended  by  the  creator  to  constitute,  with  fruits,  man's  chief  diet.  Man's 
greatest  burden  bearer — the  horse — by  nature  lives  solely  on  a  vegetable 
diet.  It  hauls  heavy  loads  with  no  seeming  effort.  DeLesseps  said  that 
the  Suez  Canal,  a  wonderful  achievement,  could  never  have  been  built  by 
any  meat-eating  people  in  the  world.  The  climate  being  hot,  they  could 
not  have  endured  it.  The  work  was  accomplished  by  Armenians,  who 
live  most  upon  barle}-.  DeLesseps  himself  became  a  vegetarian  and 
remained  so  during  his  life.  The  elephant,  the  strongest  of  all  animals, 
lives  entirely  upon  plant  life,  and  so  we  might  go  on,  but  suffice  it  to  say 
that  vegetarianism  is  bound  to  grow  and  the  quicker  we  spare  the  blessed 
lambs  and  innocent  calves,  the  healthier  and  happier  we  will  be. 

At  first  the  change  in  diet  from  meats  to  vegetables  will  perhaps  seem 
difficult  but  if  persisted  in  one  will  be  able  to  say  with  a  prominent  vege- 
tarian, "I  had  been  considerable  of  a  vulture,  and  for  some  time  after 
eliminating  flesh  from  my  menus  I  had  desire  for  it.  But  gradually  that 
desire  faded,  and  there  cam.e  in  its  stead  a  growing  horror  of  flesh.  After 
a  few  weeks  of  fruits  and  vegetables  there  came  over  me  a  feeling  of 
exultation  and  superiority  and  crispness  that  was  truly  novel." 


438 


HEALTH  PARAMOUNT  TO  ALL  ELSE. 


HOMEKEEPINQ  NOT  HOUSEKEEPING. 

"Oh,  to  be  strong!  each  morn  to  feel, 

A  fresh  delight  to  wake  to  life. 
To  spring  with  bounding  pulse  to  meet 

Whate'er  of  work,  of  care,  of  strife 
Day  brings  to  me!  each  night  to  sleep 

The  dreamless  sleep  that  health  can  give 
No  weary  ache,  no  wearing  pain — 

Ah,  then  indeed,  'twere  joy  to  live. 

What  a  ringing  chorus  of  joy  and  ecstacy 
would  swell  up  to  heaven,  if  the  many  thou- 
sands who  are  suffering  could  toss  aside  their  aches  and  pains  and  sing 
the  glad  song  of  returning  health.  Every  woman  desires  to  be  beauti- 
ful, yet,  where  is  beauty  without  health?  Strange  to  say,  health  is 
within  the  reach  of  all  if  the  simplest  rules  of  every-day  life  be  observed. 
Let  us  remember  the  adage:  "We  do  not  live  upon  what  we  eat,  but 
upon  what  we  digest."  When  we  ignore  our  natural  instincts,  which 
are  satisfied  with  the  proper  amount  of  food  and  continue  to  impose  extra 
duties  upon  the  stomach,  the  first  step  is  taken  toward  destroying  health. 
We  can  well  learn  a  lesson  from  the  animals — none  of  the  animal  king- 
dom ever  eats  except  when  it  is  hungry  and  as  soon  as  it  has  consumed 
sufficient  to  gratify  that  hunger,  it  cannot  be  tempted  to  continue  its 
repast. 

The  mothers,  the  real  homekeepers,  are  coming  to  the  front  in  that, 
as  in  all  the  other  grand  reforms  of  our  progressive  age.  They  are 
studying  the  subject  of  the  relations  of  food,  exercise  and  ventilation  to 
health,  and  are  becoming  acquainted  with  the  methods  by  which  nutri- 
ment is  best  introduced  into  the  system,  and  are  exercising  a  sensible 
supervision  over  the  food  of  their  children.  When  an  author  makes  the 
assertion  and  proves  it — that  the  nature  and  character  of  the  man  or 
woman  has  a  close  relation  to  what  the  child  was  fed  upon,  it  is  a  truth 
that  will  strike  home  to  the  mother's  heart. 

Every  mother  in  the  land  should  learn  something  of  the  chemistry  of 
cooking.  This  knowledge  would  not  only  enable  her  to  keep  her  family 
in  health,  but  would  teach  them  how  to  take  care  of  themselves.  How 
often  it  is  true  that  a  mother  studies  every  other  method  of  bringing  up 
her  children  in  a  successful  way,  but  neglects  their  food?  *A  mother  who 
looks  well  after  these  things  may  truly  be  called  a  Homekeeper.  Home- 
keeping    and    housekeeping  should    go  hand   in   hand — but   it   seems  as 


HEALTH  PARAMOUNT  TO  ALL  ELSE. 


439 


Lillian  Whiting  says  in  the  World  Beautiful  that  the  two  "have  gotten 
sadly  taken, — one  for  the  other.  The  finest  and  most  liberal  culture  is 
none  too  fine  to  fit  a  woman  for  homekeeping;  but  mere  industry  and 
trained  intelligence  is  the  basis  of  housekeeping.  The  woman  unlearned 
in  art,  literary  or  social  culture,  may  be  a  most  admirable  housekeeper; 
but  the  highest  and  greatest  gifts  and  the  most  exquisite  cultivation  are 
none  too  much  for  homekeeping." 

We  have  here  endeavored  to  pay  some  attention  to  food  values,  sup- 
plying the  elements  required  by  the  system.  Cream,  butter  and  nuts  fur- 
nish the  fats  to  those  who  do  not  eat  meat.  Fruit  gives  the  acids. 
Cereals  and  vegetables  the  brain  and  muscle. 

NOURISHING  PROPERTIES  OF   VARIOUS  FOODS. 

In  the  hope  of  arousing  and  cultivating  intelligent  interest  in  respect 
to  the  nutritive  value  of  the  most  common  articles  of  food,  I  present  the 
following  table,  from  "Science  in  the  Kitchen,"  published  at  Battle  Creek, 
the  world-famed  sanitarium  town: 


GRAINS. 

PER  CENT. 

Wheat,  Poland 86.8 

Wheat,  Michigan,  White 85. 5 

Wheat,  Michigan,  Diehl   85.5 

Wheat,  Michigan,  Japanese 84.7 

Rye,  Winter 89.8 

Rye,  German 92. 

Barley 82.2 

Barley,  So.   Russian 86. 

Oats  .' 80. 1 

Corn,  Flint , 84.9 

Corn,  Dent 84.4 

Corn,  Sweet 83. 7 

Rice 86.9 

Millet 85.7 

Buckwheat 85.6 

Irish  Moss 81.  i 

FLOUR. 

Graham 85.  i 

Wheat ! 

Rye 84.7 

Barley 84. 7 

Oat Qi 


Corn 84 

Buckwheat 85 

Bean   88 

I'ea 87 

.\vrowroot 82 


BREAD. 

PER  CEN 

Barley , 83 

Wholewheat 81 

White 54 

Rye 57 

Swedish  Speise  Brod 87 

Zwieback,  White 85 

Rye 83 

Macaroni  86 

Manna •  -74 


FRESH  FRUITS. 

Apple 13.7 

Apricot 13.5 

Blackberry 6.6 

Banana 26.7 

Cherry 14.8 

Cranberry % 4.  i 

Currant 10. 7 

Grape 18.2 

Gooseberry 10.8 

Pear 12.4 

Prune 13.4 

Plum 10.8 

Peach 13.9 

Raspberry 6.9 

Strawberry id 

Whortleberry 9.3 


440 


HEALTH  PARAMOUNT  TO  ALL  ELSE. 


DRIED  FRUITS. 

I'ER  CENT 

Prune 69 

Pear 63 

Apple 67 

Cherry 49 

Raisin 66 

F 


•g 


56 


Date 67. 

NUTS. 

Chestnut 89.3 

Walnut 88.2 

Hazelnut 89.7 

Sweet  Almonds 87.3 

Peanut 79.6 

Cocoanut   50. 5 

VEGETABLES. 

Sugar  Beet 16.8 

Parsnip 10. 

Sweet  Potato 27.2 

Cucumber 4. 

Asparagus 5.3 

Cauliflower 8.2 

Melon 8.2 

Squash 8. 5 

Onion i3-3 

Pumpkin 8. 5 

Tomato 6. 8 

Peas,  Green,  Garden 19.7 

Peas,  Small 83.3 

Peas,  African 90. 2 

Peas,  Green 84.  i 

Beans,  Field 78.5 

Peas,  French  or  Kidney 85.2 

Peas,  White  .  .  . .' 82.2 

Peas,  Lima 87. 

String  Beans 10.  i 

Lentils 83.8 

Lentils,  German •  •74-7 


MILK  AND  BUTTER. 


PER  CENT. 


Cow's  Milk 14 

Cream 34 

Swedish  Butter 86 

French  Butter 87 

Cheese,  Stilton 68 

Skimmed  Milk 10 


SACCHARINE. 

Syrup 75.4 

Honey 79.4 

Buttermilk 9.2 

Milk  of  Cow-tree 40.2 

VEGETABLES. 

Carrot 1 1.7 

Winter  Cabbage 18.  i 

Red  Cabbage 8.7 

White  Cabbage 8.2 

Spinach 10.5 

Celery 14-5 

Head  Lettuce 4.9 

Potato 24.4 

White  Turnip 5.4 

Beet II. 5 

MEATS. 

Beef,   Lean 28. 

Mutton 28. 

Veal 37- 

Pork 61. 

Poultry 26. 

White  Fish 22. 

Salmon 23. 

Entire  Egg 26. 

White  of  Egg  22. 

Yolk  of  Egg 48. 


VEQETARIANISn. 

"Let  us  be  thankful,  not  only  that  we  are  alive,  but  that  everything 
else  is  alive,"  said  Dr.  Kellogg,  in  announcing  that  there  v^ould  be  no  tur- 
key, no  animal  food  of  any  kind,  at  a  recent  Thanksgiving  dinner  of  the 
Battle  Creek  sanitarium. 

People  who  have  never  thought  upon  this  subject  doubtless  think  that 
such  a  feast  would  not  be  a  Thanksgiving  feast,  and  especially  so  as  every 
form  of  animal  food  was  also  excluded;  but  there  are  many  thousands  of 
very  intelligent  persons  who  did  the  same  thing.     Yes,  there  are  many 


HEALTH  PARAMOUNT  TO  ALL  ELSE. 


441 


strict  vegetarians  in  our  broad  land  to-day.  Doubtless  a  large  number 
have  drawn  their  inspiration  from  the  above  institution.  In  order  to 
show  what  a  grand  dinner  can  be  made  of  vegetable  foods,  and  to  furnish 
suggestions  for  those  who  may  desire  to  adopt,  at  least  in  a  small  measure, 
the  vegetarian  diet,  I  give  the  menu  of  the  above  dinner: 


riENU. 


Vegetable  Oyster  Soup       Tomato  Bisque 
Toasted   Wafers 

Nut  Roast  Dressing 
Nuttolene — Mint  Sauce     Protose  Cutlets 
Cranberry  Sauce 

Escalloped  Potatoes        Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Kornlet 

Boiled   Onions  Asparagus 

Hubbard  Squash 


Graham  Bread 
Swieback  Sticks 

Cocoanut  Crisps 


White  Bread 

Granose  Biscuit 
Walnut  Buns 


Caramel  Cereal     Grape  Nectar     Fruit   Cocoa 
Malted  Nuts  Kumyss 


Peaches 
Strawberries 


Plums 
Cherries 


Potato  Salad 


Lettuce 


Celery 


Lemon  Pie        Gold  Cake 

Roasted  Almonds  Pecans 

Malaga  Grapes  Apples  Oranges 

Bananas  Bromose 


If  any  one  will  examine  a  half-dozen  typical,  well-ordered  vegetarian 
menus,  he  will  agree  with  us,  after  examining  the  same,  that  it  is  possible 
to  prepare  a  good  menu  without  the  use  of  meats.  To  illustrate  this  fact, 
and  to  assist  those  who  may  be  interested  in  the  subject,  I  give  place  to  a 
few  every-day  breakfasts  and  dinners  which  have  been  furnished  me  by 
the  Battle  Creek  sanitarium: 


BREAKFAST— THANKSGIVING    MORNING 

FRESH    FRUIT 

Malaga  Grapes  Apples 


Strawberry 


TOASTS 

Toasted  Whole-wheat  Wafers 

Tomato        Snowflake       Cream 


CEREALS 

Cal.   Breakfast  Food 


UNFERMENTED  BREADS 


Rolled  Oats 


DEXTRINIZED  /DRAINS 

Granola    Zwieback     Granut     Granose  Flakes 
Crystal  Wheat      Toasted  Granose  Biscuits 
Granola  Porridge — Peaches 


Sliced  Protose  or  Nuttolene — Jelly 

Broiled  Protose  Cottage  Cheese 

Poached  Eggs 

VEGETABLES 

Baked  Potatoes — Cream  Sauce 
Stewed  Tomatoes  Protose  Hash 


Sticks 
Oatmeal  Crackers 

Graham  Crackers 
Currant  Puffs 


Passover  Bread 

White  Crackers 
Breakfast  Rolls 
Cocoanut  Crisps 

FERMENTED    BREADS 

White  Bread 
Fine  Graham  Bread      Coarse  Graham  Bread 

COOKED   FRUITS 

Baked  Apples  Pears 

Plums  Prunes 

LIQUID  FOODS  FOR  INVALIDS 

Sterilized  Dairy  Milk  Dairy  Milk 

Caramel-Cereal       Dairy   Cream       Fruit  Coco 

Gluten  Gruel  Almond  Cream 


442  HEALTH  PARAMOUNT  TO  ALL  ELSE. 

Another  t:il)lc  showiiifj^  that  the  very  best  animal  food  is  only  equal  to 
the  vegetable  in  nutritive  value: 

loo  Parts.  Water. 

Beef 74 

Veal 75 

Mutton 71 

Pork 76 

Chicken 73 

Cod 73 

Haddock 82 

Sole 79 


Dumen  or 

Nutritive 

Fibrin. 

Gelatin. 

Matter. 

20 

6 

26 

19 

6 

25 

22 

7 

29 

19 

5 

24 

20 

7 

27 

14 

7 

21 

13 

5 

18 

15 

6 

21 

HOW  TO  SERVE  THEM. 

FRESH  fruits  may  safely  be  said  to  be  nature's  panacea 
for  many  of  the  ills  under  which  humanity  labors. 
Every  fruit  that  grows  contains  properties  especially  needed  by  our 
race.  At  one  time  fruit  upon  the  table  was  deemed  a  luxury  designed 
solely  for  the  wealthy  or  people  of  moderate  circumstances  on 
special  occasions.  To-day  fruit  is  a  necessity  and  from  no  well-set 
table  is  it  absent.  Each  variety  of  fruit  has  its  own  health-giving 
properties — all  conducive  to  happiness  and  long  life.  In  them  is 
stored  up  elements  that  assist  digestion,  refresh  the  brain,  invigor- 
ate the  body,  and  why  should  we  go  without — when  fresh  fruit 
of  some  sort  can  be  obtained  so  cheaply?  Physicians  now  heartily 
recommend  a  fruit  diet  to  their  patients,  and  were  it  to  constitute  half  of 
the  daily  diet,  intemperance  and  many  other  evils  would  be  much  less- 
ened. We  can  personally  vouch  for  a  case  of  a  young  man  who  had 
become  addicted  to  the  use  of  intoxicants.  A  friend  advised  him  to  try 
the  use  of  oranges  before  breakfast.  He  ridiculed  but  followed  his 
advice,  with  the  result  that  he  became  a  convert  to  the  fruit  diet,  and 
when  a  craving  for  alcoholic  stimulants  arose,  he  resorted  to  the  imme- 
diate use  of  some  sort  of  fruit,  and  no  longer  cared  for  what  had  been  his 
bane.     As  he  expressed  it,  fruit  "became  meat  and  drink"  to  him. 

There  is  no  better  tonic  in  the  world  than  the  juice  of  one-half  of  a 
lemon  squeezed  into  a  cupful  of  hot  or  cold  water,  drank  without  sugar, 
on  rising  in  the  morning.  Headaches,  languor,  biliousness  all  disappear. 
We  not  only  have  our  native  fruits  to  draw  from,  but  every  country  on 
earth  contributes  its  choicest  fruits,  and  when  their  value  is  more  gener- 
ally understood,  the  good  effect  upon  the  manners  and  morals  of  the 
world  will  be  productive  of  grander  lives,  clearer  brains  and  fewer  ail- 
ments than  now. 

443 


444  FRESH  FRUITS. 

TO  PRESERVE   APPLES  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

Keep  the  apples  on  open  shelves  in  a  cool  dark  attic  that  is  airy.  It 
is  preferable  to  the  cellar,  which  is  often  too  damp.  Use  the  spotted  and 
decaying  ones  first  to  preserve  the  others  as  long  as  possible;  if  preferred 
they  may  be  packed  in  clean,  dry  straw  so  they  will  not  touch  each  other. 
Still  another  way  is,  wrap  each  apple  separately  in  tissue  paper  and  pack 
in  barrels  or  boxes,  but  this  is  rarely  done  unless  the  fruit  is  scarce  and 
very  fine.  D.  Z.  B. 

TO  PRESERVE  GRAPES  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

Select  perfect  bunches,  seal  the  ends  of  the  stems  with  sealing  wax, 
hang  them  in  a  dark  cellar  or  in  any  room  in  which  the  air  is  neither  so 
dry  as  to  wither  them  nor  so  cold  as  to  freeze  them;  fasten  each  bunch 
separately  so  as  not  to  touch  each  other.  Lida  B. 

STRAWBERRIES   AU  NATURAL. 

Select  fresh  ripe  juicy  berries,  remove  neither  hulls  nor  stems;  with 
a  tiny  brush  remove  all  sand  underneath  the  sepals.  Arrange  on  a 
pretty  glass  dish  or  on  individual  dishes.  Serve  with  a  spoonful  of  pow- 
dered sugar  in  small  paper  cup  at  side  of  plate.  If  berries  are  not  fresh 
picked  place  on  ice  two  hours  before  serving  to  freshen  them. 

LiLLIE. 
STRAWBERRIES   AU  NATURAL— No.  2. 

Choose  the  largest  strawberries,  leaving  the  stems  on.  On  each  sauce 
plate  arrange  them  around  the  dish  with  the  strawberries  uppermost. 
Then  place  a  little  pyramid  of  powdered  sugar  in  the  center  of  each  plate. 
The  berries  are  to  be  eaten  by  dipping  each  one  in  the  sugar.  A  little  pat 
of  ice  cream  may  be  substituted  for  the  sugar,  but  in  that  case  the  berries 
should  be  stemmed  and  hulled.  Mrs.  J.  C.  M. 

PLUMS. 

(French  Style.) 

Sqlect  any  kind  of  plums  desired.  If  fresh  picked  arrange  them  on 
fancy  dish  with  their  own  leaves.  Serve  with  small  knives.  If  not  fresh 
picked  place  on  ice  three  hours  before  serving.  Mary  Butler. 

CHILLED   WATERMELON. 

Select  a  thoroughly  ripe  watermelon,  place  on  ice  till  very  cold;  now 
wipe  dry  and  cut  crosswise  at  center.  Cut  out  triangular  sections  (see 
colored  illustration)  cut  down  the  remaining  sections  so  as  to  easily  sepa- 
rate with  a  knife.  Serve  with  rind  attached;  serve  on  large  round  platter 
decorated  with  fresh  grape  or  apple  leaves.  John  Miller. 


FRESH  FRUITS.  445 

GRAPE  FRUIT   SERVED  IN  BASKET. 

(Made  of  the  peel.) 

Select  medium-sized  grape  fruit  cut  in  basket  shape  (see  colored  illus- 
tration) and  with  a  knife  carefully  scoop  out  fruit  and  all  the  bitter  pulp. 
Return  the  fruit  and  sprinkle  generously  with  sugar  just  before  placing  it 
on  table.  Tie  to  the  handle  some  light  blue  baby  ribbon  and  some  pretty 
geranium  leaves  and  set  on  fancy  plate  at  each  place;  a  nice  first  course 
for  a  luncheon.  Leone  Hull. 

PINEAPPLE  DESSERT. 

Cut  the  top  off  of  a  pineapple  and  cut  away  the  bottom  so  that  it  will 
stand  upright  on  a  plate  (see  colored  illustration).  Scoop  out  the  pulp 
throwing  away  the  core.  Mix  the  pulp  with  strawberries  and  green 
amalaga  grapes  cutting  the  berries  and  grapes  into  halves.  Sweeten  and 
return  mixture  to  the  pineapple  shell  and  set  on  ice.  Decorate  dish  with 
leaves  from  the  crown  or  with  grape  leaves.  Luella. 

ORANGE  AND  STRAWBERRIES  IN  BASKET. 

(Made  of  Peel.) 

Select  good-sized  oranges,  cut  off  the  top,  scoop  out  the  center  and 
fill  with  strawberries  and  some  of  the  orange.  If  liked  pour  over  a  little 
sherry  and  put  on  top  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream.     Delicious. 

John. 
GRAPES. 

There  is  no  fruit  that  is  so  inviting  to  the  eye  as  large  clusters  of 
grapes,  arranged  in  a  clear  glass  dish.  They  can  be  pulled  from  the  stems 
by  the  fingers  in  eating.  Nell. 

PEARS. 

Select  those  that  are  ripe,  pare  them  and  stem  them.  Cut  them  in 
halves,  laying  them  on  a  fruit  dish,  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  thickly 
over  them.     To  be  eaten  with  knife  and  fork.  Mary  Anderson. 

RAISINS. 

Large  clusters  of  raisins  can  be  arranged  upon  a  fruit  dish,  and  a  dish 
of  almond-meal  set  near  them.  A  bunch  of  the  raisins  can  be  placed  on 
each  plate,  and  a  teaspoonful  or  two  of  the  almond-meal  added.  They 
are  to  be  eaten  together.  Lillian  B. 

niXED   FRUITS. 

The  beauty  of  any  fruit  is  increased  when  it  is  tastefully  dished.  A 
beautiful  method  of  showing  off  fruit  is  to  procure  a  large  gilt  basket,  and 
fill  with  apples,  pears,  peaches  and  grapes,  and  fill  in  the  crevices  with 
ferns  and  geraniums  or  any  green  sprays  that  suggest  themselves.     The 


I 


44G  FRESH  FRUITS. 

dish  so  ornamented  should  never  be  too  full,  and  always  garnished  in 
some  way,  either  with  leaves  or  flowers.  When  these  are  not  at  hand, 
embroidered  or  lace  paper  can  be  bought  for  the  purpose.  All  fruit 
designed  for  the  table  should  be  carefully  examined  and  wiped  with  a 
napkin  before  arranging  it  on  the  dish.  Mrs.  R.  Beals. 

MU5KMEL0NS. 

The  large  melons  may  be  cut  into  large  pieces  and  served  with  a  little 
ice  on  the  plate,  but  small  ones  are  cut  in  halves,  a  small  piece  of  ice 
placed  in  each  section  and  served.  They  may  be  made  the  first  course  at 
breakfast  or  luncheon.  A.  R.  G. 

PEACHES  AND  CREAM. 

Arrange  as  many  peaches  as  you  wish  in  a  handsome  dish  after  pour- 
ing a  mixture  of  sugar  and  cream  over  them.  Fill  the  dish  with  the 
peaches,  which  must  have  been  pared  and  quartered  and  keep  pouring 
over  the  cream  and  sugar  until  the  dish  is  full.     Then  set  them  on  the  ice. 

Pruella  North. 
A  CREAfl  OF  CHERRIES. 

A  quart  of  cherries  broken  with  a  spoon  but  not  enough  to  make  the 
pits  escape,  can  be  left  to  stand  in  a  cold  place  after  pouring  a  cupful  of 
sugar  over  them.  Strain  off  all  the  juice,  sweeten  it,  and  beat  one-half 
pint  of  cream  and  the  white  of  an  &gg,  adding  the  juice  of  the  cherries 
very  slowly,  whipping  it  till  it  ceases  to  foam.  The  juice  must  be  poured 
in  a  little  at  a  time,  or  it  will  curdle.  Frona  Williams. 

NUTS   AND  RAISINS. 

Select  the  large  raisins  that  come  in  good-sized  bunches  and  lay  a 
handsome  doily  on  a  glass  dish.  Now  pile  up  the  raisins  on  this  dish 
and  fill  in  the  crevices  with  shelled  nuts  of  any  sort  that  have  been  previ- 
ously blanched.  Blanching  is  simply  scalding  the  nuts  to  remove  their 
inner  skin.  They  must  be  wiped  dry  afterward  before  using.  This  makes 
a  pretty  dish  for  the  table.  Mrs.  Laura  King. 

MOLDED  ORANGES. 

Peel  three  or  four  large  oranges,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  thin 
skin  which  divides  them.  Oil  a  small  mold  thoroughly.  Boil  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water  till  it  becomes 
hard  and  brittle  when  dropped  into  cold  water,  dip  the  edges  of  the 
orange  sections  into  this,  arrange  them  in  layers  round  only  the  sides  of 
the  mold,  and  fasten  them  together  with  the  sugar.  When  they  are  firm, 
turn  them  on  a  dish,  and  fill  the  center  with  whipped  cream.  It  takes 
twelve  minutes  to  boil  the  sugar.  J.  E.  Taber. 


FRESH  FRUITS.  44? 

PINEAPPLES  FOR  THE  TABLE. 

Unless  a  pineapple  is  perfectly  ripe  it  should  not  be  eaten.  Pare  it, 
removing  the  eyes.  Do  not  slice  it,  but  after  paring  cut  away  the  fruit  in 
small  pieces.  Lay  them  in  a  glass  dish,  covered  with  fine  white  sugar. 
The  core  is  indigestible,  and  is  not  used.  Set  the  pineapple  on  ice  till 
wanted.  Flo  Brine. 

STRAWBERRIES   WITH  CREAM. 

Wash  them  through  a  colander.  Few  of  the  berries  brought  to  mar- 
ket can  be  used  without  washing.  Drain  them  well,  and  when  as  dry  as 
possible,  stem  them.  Sugar  and  cream  should  not  be  placed  over  them  as 
it  makes  them  dark  and  soft  on  standing.  When  brought  to  table  allow 
each  guest  to  use  cream  and  sugar  at  his  own  discretion.  Keep  them 
cool  until  they  are  to  be  served.  Mrs.  T.  Chamberlain. 

APPLE   DAINTY. 

Peel  eight  apples  very  thin  and  lay  in  a  dish,  in  layers,  using  plenty  of 
powdered  sugared  over  each  layer  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Put  it  on  ice 
three  hours  and  it  will  be  found  excellent.  Mrs.  R.  Roscoe. 

ICED  CURRANTS. 

Procure  some  of  the  finest  bunches  of  currants.  Beat  well  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  and  mix  them  with  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  water.  Dip  each 
cluster  of  currants  separately  into  the  egg  and  water,  drain  for  two  min- 
utes, roll  them  in  finely  powdered  sugar.  Repeat  the  rolling  in  sugar  and 
lay  them  on  sheets  of  white  paper  to  dry,  when  the  sugar  will  become 
crystallized.     Alternating  white  and  red  currants  make  a  pretty  effect. 

Mrs.  Lois  Eaton. 
RASPBERRIES,  ICED. 

Take  as  many  freshly-gathered  raspberries  as  wanted.  Whisk  the 
white  of  an  &gg,  and  stir  in  with  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Dip 
the  raspberries  quickly  one  by  one  in  the  liquid,  drain  them,  and  roll  them 
in  finely  powdered  and  sifted  sugar.  Lay  them  on  paper  to  dry  and 
arrange  them  prettily  in  a  fancy  dish.  Mrs.  W.  Sues. 

ORANGE  SALAD. 

Peel  one-half  dozen  oranges,  free  them  from  the  white  skin,  and  cut 
them  into  slices  of  about  one-quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Arrange 
them  neatly  in  a  compote  dish,  strew  three  ounces  of  finely-powdered 
sugar  over  them  and  pour  upon  them  a  wine-glassful  of  California  sweet 
wine.     If  it  stands  a  day  before  using  it  is  richer.  S.  E.  F. 


448  FRESH  FRUITS. 

FIGS  AS  A  DESSERT. 

Dried  figs  make  a  very  agreeable  dish,  but  they  must  be  prepared  the 
day  before  and  set  away  on  ice.  Soak  them  first,  then  simmer  slowly  till 
plump.  Drain  and  pile  them  in  a  bon  bon  dish.  Serve  whipped  cream 
around  the  dish.     Flavor  and  sweeten  the  cream  with  vanilla  or  sherry. 

P.  Thomason. 

ORANGES  IN  FANCY  SHAPES. 

There  are  many  artistic  ways  of  arranging  oranges.  Cut  the  peel 
vertically  at  even  distances,  beginning  at  one  end,  down  to  the  center. 
Now  peel  down  the  loosened  skin  but  do  not  break  or  cut  off  but  tarn 
points  in.  The  whole  resembles  a  rose.  Another  pretty  way  is  to  peel  off 
the  entire  skin  and  slice  the  oranges  crosswise;  sugar  well  and  place  each 
slice  as  though  it  was  uncut.  Ione. 

ICED  GRAPES. 

Wash  and  drain  large  dry  bunches  of  ripe  grapes,  two  or  three  vari- 
eties if  possible,  dip  into  beaten  white  of  &gg,  put  in  sieve  so  that  they  will 
not  touch  each  other,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to 
dry.     Cherries  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way.  Mrs.  N.  K.  B. 

FRESH  RASPBERRY  COMPOTE. 

Bruise  a  quart  of  sound  raspberries  thoroughly,  put  them  into  a  glass 
dish,  and  sprinkle  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  over  them.  Let  them  lie 
in  a  cool  place  for  a  couple  of  hours,  then  pour  over  them  a  quart  of  thin 
claret  and  a  quart  of  cold  water.  Send  sponge  cake  or  any  light  cake  to 
table  with  them.  Mrs.  Lottie  Meisman. 

ORANGE  COMPOTE. 

Peel  the  oranges,  cut  up  into  sections,  pare  off  all  the  white  skin  and 
cut  them  into  slices;  place  these  in  a  circle  in  a  preserve  dish,  pour  a  little 
brandy  over  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  in  their  own  juice  thirty  min- 
utes. CoRRiNE  Betts. 

FRESH  STRAWBERRY  COMPOTE. 

Select  fine  ripe  berries,  hull  them  and  arrange  in  a  pyramid  in  a  pre- 
serve dish;  press  others  through  a  sieve  and  put  the  pulp  into  a  vessel 
with  plenty  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  an  orange;  stir  well  and 
place  both  this  and  the  strawberries  in  the  ice-box.  When  ready  to  serve 
pour  the  sweetened  pulp  over  the  berries.  M.  Brubaker. 


FRESH  FRUITS.  449 

A  DESSERT   OF  PEACHES. 

Select  the  largest  and  finest  and  rub  the  down  off  with  a  clean  cloth. 
Lay  them  on  a  dish  in  the  form  of  a  diamond  and  pile  them  up,  row  upon 
row,  to  the  height  you  wish.  Cut  paper  peach  leaves  and  build  in  unless 
you  can  obtain  the  real  leaves.  Put  a  circle  of  the  leaves  around  the  base 
of  the  fruit.  Mrs.  Sophia  Morris. 

APPLES. 

This  fruit,  which  every  one  loves,  can  be  eaten  in  any  way.  Pick  nice, 
juicy  ones,  wipe  and  polish  with  a  soft  napkin  and  serve  in  a  fancy  basket 
decorated  with  apple  leaves.  P>uit  knives  of  silver  should  accompany 
them.  Miss  Grace  Johnson. 

ORANGES,  SLICED. 

Peel  one-half  dozen  oranges  and  cut  them  in  slices  crosswise,  picking 
out  the  seeds.  Then  sprinkle  generously  with  pulverized  sugar  and  set  in 
a  cool  place.     The  colder  any  raw  fruit  can  be  made  the  better  the  flavor. 

W.  T.  M. 
BANANAS. 

Strip  off  the  outer  skin  and  cut  the  fruit  in  slices.  Pour  cream  over 
and  serve.  P.  E.  F. 

WATERMELON   AU   NATURAL. 

Procure  the  watermelon  a  day  or  so  before  they  are  to  be  used  and 
place  in  a  cold  cellar  or  put  on  ice.  They  can  be  sliced  across  or  length- 
wise but  need  no  dressing  of  any  sort.  Amy. 

STUFFED  DATES. 

Select  large  dates,  remove  the  seeds  and  refill  with  blanched  almonds 
or  pecan  nuts.     Excellent  for  a  final  course  to  luncheon.  Greta  M. 

STUFFED   PRUNES. 

Select  very  large  prunes,  soak  a  short  time  so  they  will  swell  and 
become  plump,  remove  the  pit  and  stuff  with  other  prunes  as  full  as  they 
can  be  stuffed.  Sift  over  powdered  sugar  and  pile  on  bonbon  dish.  Very 
fine.  Theresa  M. 

CRYSTALLIZED  ORANGES  AND  LEMONS. 

Boil  together  for  one-half  hour  one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  and 
one  of  water.  Dip  the  point  of  a  skewer  or  darning  needle  in  the  syrup 
after  it  has  been  boiling  the  given  time  and  then  in  water.  If  the  thread 
formed  breaks  off  brittle  the  syrup  is  done.  Pare  some  oranges,  divide 
them  into  eighths  and  wipe  free  of  moisture.     Pour  part  of  the  hot  syrup 


450  FRESH  FRUITS. 

into  a  cup,  which  keep  in  boiling  water.  Take  the  pieces  of  orange  on 
the  point  of  a  large  needle  or  skewer  and  dip  them  in  the  syrup.  Place 
them  on  a  dish  that  has  been  buttered  lightly.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to 
stir  the  syrup  as  that  spoils  it.  Mary  B.  Burns. 

FRUIT  GLACE. 

Prepare  syrup  as  above  and  take  any  prepared  fruits  desired  (grapes, 
pineapple,  cherries,  etc.)  on  point  of  a  darning  needle;  dip  them  in  the 
syrup;  when  cold  they  are  ready  for  use. 

Note. — Apples,  it  is  said,  are  now  considered  to  contain  far  more 
brain  food  than  any  other  fruit  or  vegetable,  and  to  be  much  more  nutri- 
tious than  potatoes,  which  enter  so  largely  into  the  component  parts  of 
every  meal.  M.  B.  B. 

CHESTNUTS  CRYSTALLIZED  WITH  WHITE  SUGAR. 

Make  syrup  as  above.  Boil  the  requisite  quantity  of  chestnuts  until 
soft,  and  peel  them,  taking  care  not  to  break  them.  Take  them  on  the 
point  of  a  skewer,  one  at  a  time;  dip  them  first  into  the  syrup  and  then, 
quickly,  into  cold  water.  Slip  them  off  the  skewer  into  a  wire  sieve  and 
dry  them  in  a  warm  place.  G.  S.  T 

STUFFED  DATES— No.  2. 

Remove  seeds.  Replace  with  blanched  almond.  Roll  in  coarse 
sugar.  H.  F.  L. 

CHESTNUTS  CRYSTALLIZED  WITH  CARAMEL. 

Prepare  as  above  only  instead  of  putting  the  chestnuts  on  a  sieve  to 
dry  have  ready  a  broad  flat  basin,  put  some  brown  sugar  or  caramel  in  it; 
dip  the  chestnuts  into  it,  leaving  them  to  drain.  When  they  are  cold 
arrange  them  tastefully  on  a  dish.  S.  T,  O. 


OUPS  ^ 

WITHOUT  MEATS 


w 


ITH  the  increased  interest  in 
vegetarian  ideas,  it  is  well  to 
be  able  to  make  dishes  in  which  meat 
plays  no  part.     Vegetable  soups  pro- 
vide   food    for    the    human    species 
entirely  free  from  adulteration  and  yet  capa- 
ble of  furnishing  wonderful  nutrition. 

ONION  SOUP. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  several  peeled 
and  chopped  onions  and  one  quart  of  cold 
water.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  drain  and  put  back  into  the  pan.  Now 
pour  over  the  onions  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  let  cook  until 
very  tender,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  salt.  When  done  add  a  cupful  of 
rich  cream;  let  come  to  a  boil.  A  few  minutes  before  serving  remove 
the  pan  from  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  generous  lump  of  but- 
ter, into  which  has  been  mixed  a  very  little  flour,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  a 
pinch  of  sugar.     Let  come  to  a  bubble  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 

Mrs.  a.  C.  Little. 
TURNIP  AND  RICE  SOUP. 

Peel  and  wash  as  many  turnips  as  desired  and  put  them  in  a  granite 
kettle  with  a  lump  of  butter  and  sufficient  water  to  allow  them  to  simmer 
gently  until  tender.  Pass  through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  return  to  the  kettle, 
add  a  pint  of  rich  milk  and  one-half  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice;  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  sugar.  Let  simmer  for  twenty  minutes;  then 
stir  in  a  lump  of  butter  and  one  cupful  of  cream.     Serve  on  croutons. 

Sanitarium. 
RICE  AND  PEA  SOUP. 

Wash  one  teacupful  of  rice,  put  it  into  a  granite  kettle  and  allow  it  to 
boil  gently  until  tender.  Put  one  pint  of  young  green  peas  into  another 
saucepan  and  stew  until  tender.  When  both  the  above  vegetables  are 
cooked,  throw  them  together  and  add  one  pint  of  hot  water.  Let  boil, 
remove  the  pan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and  stir  in  quickly  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
beaten  with  one  pint  of  cream.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
a  pinch  of  sugar.     Pour  over  toasted  brown  bread  cut  in  small  squares. 

Mother  of  Healthy  Children, 
451 


452  SOUPS  I'VflHOUT  MEATS. 

CREAM  OF  LETTUCE  SOUP. 

Wash  well  four  small  heads  of  lettuce,  drain,  chop,  place  them  in  a 
g,^ranite  kettle  with  one-half  cupful  of  butter  and  cook  for  four  or  five  min- 
utes, stirring  lightly.  Now  add  two  quarts  of  water,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  one-half  cupful  of  well-cleaned  uncooked 
rice;  cover  the  kettle,  and  cook  for  forty  minutes,  then  strain.  Clean  the 
kettle,  pour  the  soup  into  it  again  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point. 
Add  one  pint  of  sweet  cream;  stir  up  and  serve.  Mrs.  J.  Anderson. 

CREAM  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Take  one  can  of  tomatoes,  one  quart  of  fresh,  ripe  ones,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  rice,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes  and  put  over  the  fire  in  a  granite  kettle,  with 
one  quart  of  cold  water.  Let  them  heat  gradually  and  then  add  an  addi- 
tional quart  of  cold  water.  When  this  boils,  put  in  the  rice,  pepper,  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  continue  the  boiling  until  the  rice  is  tender;  then  stir  in 
the  flour  and  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  and  one  pint  of 
milk.     Boil  for  a  few  minutes  and  serve.  Mrs.  S.  Anderson. 

RICE  AND  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Put  one-half  pound  of  well-washed  rice  into  a  granite  kettle  with  two 
quarts  of  water  and  boil  until  tender.  Season  with  salt  and  a  generous 
lump  of  butter.  Move  the  kettle  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and  add  one  quart 
of  tomatoes  thoroughly  cooked,  strained  and  sweetened  with  a  pinch  of 
baking  soda.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
Pour  over  toasted  entire-wheat  bread.  Eliza  Brubaker. 

HEALTH  SOUP. 

Cut  four  large  onions  into  small  pieces  and  put  into  a  granite  kettle 
with  one-half  cupful  of  butter.  Toss  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes. 
Now  put  in  with  the  onions  two  stalks  of  celery  cut  into  small  pieces  and 
some  finely-shredded  head  of  lettuce;  stir  these  ingredients  over  the  fire 
for  twenty  minutes,  then  put  in  one  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  one  pint  of 
boiling  milk  and  one  of  boiling  water.  Season  the  soup  to  taste  with  salt 
and  pepper  to  let  it  simmer  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  an  hour.  When 
done  add  one  cupful  of  cream  and  one  egg  well  stirred.  Take  at  once 
from  the  fire  and  serve.  Mrs.  C.  Dickerson. 

NEW  YORK  SOUP. 

A  delicate  soup  is  made  of  a  quart  of  milk  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Thicken  slightly  with  four  eggs  creamed  in  two 
ounces  of  butter.     Just  before  taking  up  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 


SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEATS.  453 

Toast  to  a  good  brown,  six  circular  slices  of  bread,  sprinkle  sugar  lightly 
over  and  put  them  in  the  oven  for  a  couple  of  minutes.  Pour  the  soup 
over  the  toast  and  serve.  Mrs.  Quinn. 

QUICK  POTATO  SOUP. 

Mash  three  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Take  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
fry  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  in  it.  Then  add  one-half  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour.  When  the  thickening  is  cooked  add  a  pint  of  milk.  Put  this 
with  the  mashed  potato  and  pass  the  mixture  through  a  colander.  Put 
this  back  on  the  fire  and  stir.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  the 
soup  is  ready  for  the  table  sprinkle  parsley  over  it.        A  Busy  Mother. 

PEA  SOUP. 

A  fine  soup  can  be  made  by  rubbing  a  can  of  peas  through  a  colander 
to  remove  the  skins,  then  adding  water  to  a  tablespoonful  of  Nut  Butter 
so  as  to  form  an  emulsion.  Add  this  to  the  sifted  peas,  and  enough  addi- 
tional water  to  make  the  soup  of  the  proper  consistency;  season  with  salt 
and  serve.  Potato,  bean,  tomato,  and  other  vegetable  soups  may  be  pre- 
pared in  like  manner  and  seasoned  with  Nut  Butter.  (Nut  Butter  can  be 
procured  at  the  grocers.)  Mrs.  Mina  Covert. 

CORN  SOUP. 

To  one  can  of  grated  corn,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper  add  two  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an 
^gg,  one  cupful  of  mashed  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  boil  five  minutes; 
serve  with  toast  cut  in  dice.  Mrs.  B.  Yeomans. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP  WITHOUT  HEAT. 

Slice  three  medium-sized  onions  and  three  potatoes  into  one  and  one- 
half  pints  of  boiling  water;  add  one-half  can  of  tomatoes,  one-half  can  of 
peas,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Let  boil  one  hour,  roll  out  six  soda  crackers 
and  serve.  Lida  Smith. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Strain  one  can  of  tomatoes  though  a  fine  colander,  add  a  pinch  of  soda 
(to  offset  the  acid),  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  a  generous  size  of  butter,  salt 
and  pepper;  put  over  fire  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.     Serve  with  crackers. 

Julia  Anderson. 
TOMATO  SOUP— No.  2. 

Take  three  large,  ripe,  tomatoes,  slice  and  put  them  over  the  fire  in  their 
own  juice.     When  hot  add  a  quart  of  milk  and  a  pinch  of  soda.     Salt  and 


454  SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEATS. 

pepper  lightly.  Add  apiece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  lastly  pour 
cracker  crumbs  plentifully  in,  just  before  removing  from  the  fire.  Canned 
tomatoes  can  be  used  in  the  winter  season.  Mrs.  Susan  Stevenson. 

IOWA  POTATO  50UP. 

Peel  one  dozen  small  potatoes  and  boil  in  one  quart  of  water  until 
done;  mash  and  pour  all  through  colander;  then  add  one  quart  of  sweet 
milk  and  one  pint  of  beef  broth;  butter  size  of  a  small  egg;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Mrs.  C.  McCartney. 

POTATO  SOUP— A  I. 

Pare  and  slice  one  quart  of  potatoes,  wash  and  put  them  over  the 
fire  in  one  gallon  of  water;  add  two  small  onions  (sliced),  one  large  table- 
spoonful  of  rice,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  suit  the  taste.  When  nearly  done  break  in  two  eggs.  Cook  fifteen  min- 
utes.    Very  good  for  convalescents.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Hall. 

BROWN  ONION  SOUP. 

Peel  and  cut  in  thin  rings  six  large  Spanish  onions,  fry  them  in  butter 
till  tender  and  brown.  Then  lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve  so  as  to  drain  off 
the  butter.  Put  them  in  a  kettle  with  five  quarts  of  water,  boil  for  one 
hour,  stirring  often.  Then  salt  and  pepper  to  your  taste.  Rub  the  crumbs 
of  a  roll  or  large  tea  biscuit  through  a  colander  and  add  to  the  soup,  stir- 
ring all  the  time  so  as  to  keep  it  smooth.  Boil  two  hours  longer.  Ten 
minutes  before  you  serve  it  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  two  spoons  of 
the  vinegar  and  a  little  of  the  soup-.  Pour  it  in  by  degrees,  stirring  it  one 
way.  Mrs.  Jennie  Torf. 

LENTIL  SOUP. 

Take  four  carrots,  two  sliced  onions,  a  chopped  lettuce  head,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  two  pints  of  lentils,  the  crumbs  of  two  French  rolls  and 
two  quarts  of  stock.  Put  the  vegetables,  with  the  butter,  into  a  stew-pan, 
and  let  them  simmer  five  minutes;  add  the  lentils,  which  should  be  soaked 
in  cold  water  for  two  hours  previous  and  a  pint  of  the  stock,  and  stew 
gently  for  one-half  hour.  Now  fill  up  with  the  remainder  of  the  stock,  let 
it  boil  another  hour  and  put  in  the  crumbs  of  the  rolls.  When  these  are 
well  soaked  rub  all  through  a  wire  sieve  or  tammy  cloth.  Season  to  taste 
with  pepper  and  salt,  boil  up  once  more,  and  serve.  Water  may  be  used 
in  the  place  of  the  stock,  if  desired;  but  in  that  case  a  cupful  of  milk, 
thickened  with  corn-flour,  should  be  added  just  before  the  final  boil. 

P.  E.  F. 


SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEATS.  455 

PEA  AND  VERMICELLI  SOUP. 

Prepare  one  quart  of  green  peas  that  have  been  cooked  and  passed 
through  a  wire  sieve.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  of  milk.  Boil 
separately  two  ounces  of  large  white  vermicelli  for  ten  minutes  in  salted 
water.     Drain,  put  with  the  soup,  boil  ten  minutes  longer,  skim  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Mary  Howe, 

CHICAGO  CORN  SOUP. 

Turn  the  contents  of  a  can  of  sweet  corn  into  a  graniteware  pan  and 
mash  thoroughly  with  a  potato  masher  until  every  kernel  is  broken. 
Then  rub  through  a  colander.  To  the  pulp  thus  left  add  sufficient  nut 
soup  stock  liquor  to  make  about  three  pints  in  all.  Add  a  little  salt  and 
serve  hot.  Mrs.  Jennie  Boyd. 

VEGETABLE  OYSTER  SOUP. 

Take  eight  bunches  of  vegetable  oysters,  seven  or  eight  in  a  bunch, 
one  cupful  of^sweet  corn,  and  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  Nuttolene.  This 
is  a  product  compressed  from  nuts  and  can  be  found  at  all  grocers. 
Cook  the  oysters  until  tender  and  press  them  through  a  colander.  Rub 
the  corn  through  the  colander  and  the  nuttolene  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Mix  the  corn  and  nuttolene  together  and  add  the  oysters;  add  the  liquor 
in  which  the  oysters  were  cooked,  with  sufficient  water  to  make  it  the  con- 
sistency of  soup,  not  porridge.  Salt  to  taste.  Heat  from  one-half  hour 
to  an  hour.     This  makes  five  quarts  of  soup.  W.  T.  M. 

PENNSYLVANIA  PEA  SOUP— No.  i. 

Put  one  quart  of  full-grown  peas  in  the  saucepan  with  three  pints  of 
boiling  water  and  a  little  mint.  Leave  the  cover  off  the  pan  and  boil 
rapidly  until  peas  are  tender.  Remove  the  scum  as  it  rises,  press  the 
whole  through  a  coarse  sieve  and  return  to  the  fire,  letting  it  boil  up  once 
more.  To  this  add  a  lump  of  sugar  and  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  as  hot  as 
possible.  Mrs.  Margeret  Eustis. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP. 

In  three  pints  of  boiling  water  cook  three  cupfuls  of  celery,  cut  fine, 
until  sufficiently  tender  to  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  One  pint  of  milk 
thickened  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Add  celery  salt,  or  extract,  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  ten  minutes.  A 
cupful  of  scalded  cream  added  just  before  serving  is  an  addition. 

Minerva. 


456  SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEATS. 

ONION  AND  POTATO  SOUP. 

Take  six  potatoes,  one  onion,  butter,  three  pints  of  water,  one  large 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  pepper  and  salt. 
Fry  the  potatoes  and  onion  in  the  butter.  When  slightly  colored  put 
them  into  the  boiling  water  and  add  the  parsley.  Let  it  boil  till  the 
potatoes  are  quite  soft,  then  press  all  through  a  colander.  Return  the 
puree  to  the  fire  and  let  it  simmer  for  two  or  three  minutes.  When  ready 
to  serve  have  the  well-beaten  yolks  ready  and  add  a  little  of  the  soup  to 
them,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  mixed  add  them  slowly  to  the  soup, 
with  plenty  of  pepper  and  salt.  Do  not  let  the  soup  boil  after  adding  the 
eggs.  Mrs.  Martha  Mann. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP. 

Boil  a  pint  of  split  peas  in  two  quarts  of  water  until  quite  tender,  then 

add  two  turnips,  one  carrot,  a  stick  of  celery  and  some  potatoes,  all  cut 

in  pieces.     When  tender  pulp  it  through  a  sieve.     Cut  a  large  onion  in 

slices  and  fry  it  in  butter  and  flour  to  thicken  the  soup.     Season  to  taste. 

Serve  with  the  soup  pieces  of  bread  fried  crisp  in  butter. 

Mrs.  Lucy  Ford. 
GREEN  CORN  SOUP. 

Boil  one  pint  of  unripe  green  corn  in  water,  until  sufficiently  tender, 
then  pass  through  a  sieve  and  mix  it  with  a  quart  of  nut-meal  stock.  Let 
all  boil  up  together  and  serve  in  a  tureen  with  toasted  bread.  A  few 
young  spinach  leaves  may  be  boiled  with  the  corn  to  make  it  a  brighter 
green.  Mrs.  A.  Wolcott. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Peel  and  slice  six  large  onions,  six  potatoes,  two  carrots  and  two 
turnips;  fry  them  in  one-half  pound  of  butter  and  pour  on  them  four 
quarts  of  boiling  water.  Toast  a  crust  of  bread  as  brown  and  hard  as 
possible  and  put  it  in  with  celery,  white  pepper  and  salt;  stew  gently  four 
hours  and  strain  it  through  a  coarse  cloth.  Have  ready  thinly-sliced 
carrot,  celery  and  a  little  turnip;  add  them  to  your  liking  and  stew  them 
tender  in  the  soup.     A  spoonful  of  tomato  catsup  may  be  added. 

S.  A.  Stevenson. 
CREAM  OF  BEAN  SOUP. 

One  pint  of  soup  stock,  add  two  cupfuls  of  flaked  beans  and  let  boil 
three  minutes.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Ko-nut  in  frying-pan,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  paprica,  ten  drops  of  onion  juice  and  one  pint  of  milk 
slowly.     When  well  mixed  add  the  soup  stock  and  serve. 

M.  Robinson. 


SOUPS  IVITHOUT  MEATS.  45: 

BLENDED  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Take  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Ko-nut, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
celer>'  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one-quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  paprica.  Then  add  slowly  one  cupful  each  of  flaked  beans, 
peas  and  rice.     Boil  ten  minutes  and  serve  with  shredded  wheat  croutons. 

Myrtle  Robinson. 
CUCUMBER  AND  GUMBO  SOUP. 

Take  six  cucumbers,  six  ounces  of  bread-crumbs,  four  ounces  of 
gumbo,  one  ounce  of  parsley  and  six  ounces  of  sweet  cream.  Pare  and 
slice  the  cucumbers,  chop  the  gumbo  and  parsley  into  small  pieces  and 
stew  them  gently  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  stirring  occasionally;  then 
pour  in  two  quarts  of  boiling  water;  add  the  bread-crumbs  and  cream  and 
let  the  whole  stew  two  hours.  If  the  soup  is  then  too  thin,  dredge  in  a 
little  flour  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer.  A.  M.  K. 

ASPARAGUS  CREAH  SOUP. 

Cut  off  the  ends  of  the  asparagus  for  about  two  inches  and  boil  the 
rest  till  tender.  Rub  the  vegetable  through  a  very  coarse  sieve  and  salt 
the  pulp.  Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  mix  one-half  teaspoonful  of  butter  with 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  stir  into  the  milk.  Add  the  asparagus 
and  boil  about  ten  minutes,  keeping  it  agitated.  Meanwhile  boil  the  ends 
for  about  fifteen  minutes,  drain  them,  and  place  them  in  a  soup  tureen. 
Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  to  the  soup  and  pour  it  into  the  tureen 
without  boiling  again.     Serve  at  once.  Mrs.  L.  J.  Farmer. 

CORN  AND  ONION  SOUP. 

Take  a  large  can  of  corn  and  about  three  pints  of  water  and  two  slices 
of  onion  and  let  it  boil  until  the  corn  can  easily  be  passed  through  a  colan- 
der. Have  ready  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  boiling  milk  into  which  has 
been  stirred  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour  creamed  together, 
salt  and  pepper,  celery-  salt  if  you  like,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
Mash  the  corn  through  the  colander  and  add  it  to  the  milk.  Let  all  cook 
a  few  minutes  and  then  serve.  R.  E. 

GRAHAM  SOUP. 

Take  three  onions,  three  carrots,  four  turnips,  one  small  cabbage,  one 
head  of  celerj',  one  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes  (canned  will  doj,  a  small 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  milk, 
thickened  with  corn-flour,  pepper  and  salt,  three  quarts  of  water.  Chop 
all  the  vegetables,  except  the  cabbage  and  tomatoes,  ver>'  fine,  and  set 


458  SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEATS. 

them  over  the  fire  with  rather  over  three  quarts  of  water.  Simmer  gently 
for  one-half  hour,  at  the  end  of  which  time  the  cabbage  must  be  added, 
having  previously  been  parboiled  and  chopped.  In  fifteen  minutes  put  in 
the  tomatoes  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  and  give  all  a  good  boil  for 
twenty  minutes  longer.  Put  through  a  colander;  return  the  soup  to  the 
fire;  stir  in  a  good  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  milk,  thickened  with  corn-flour;  let  it  boil  up,  and  it  is  ready  for  the 
table.  H.  F.  L. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP. 

Break  six  ounces  of  vermicelli  in  pieces.  Boil  until  nearly  cooked  in 
boiling  water  and  salt.  This  will  take  fifteen  minutes.  Add  it  when  well 
drained  to  twelve  gills  of  boiling  nut-meal  stock.  Boil  till  done,  about 
one-half  hour  in  all.  L.  S.  E. 

DRIED  PEA  SOUP. 

Take  a  pint  of  dried  peas  and  three  quarts  of  water,  six  large  onions, 
outside  sticks  of  two  heads  of  celery,  a  small  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  two 
carrots.  Boil  all  these  vegetables  together  till  they  are  soft  and  tender. 
Strain  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  pressing  the  carrot  pulp  through  it. 
Then  boil  the  soup  well  for  an  hour  with  the  best  part  of  the  celery,  a 
teaspoonful  of  pepper,  add  a  little  dried  mint  and  fried  bread  with  a  little 
spinach.  Mrs.  Elsie  Schultz. 

CREAH  OF  CELERY— No.  2. 

Trim  a  head  of  celery  and  boil  in  one  pint  of  water  for  thirty-five 
minutes;  boil  a  small  onion  finely  cut  in  one  pint  of  milk;  mix  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk,  add  to  the  onion 
and  milk  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  ten  minutes.  Mash  celery  in 
the  water  in  which  it  has  been  cooked,  mix  it  into  the  boiling  milk,  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  rich  cream  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.     Strain  and  serve  immediately. 

Cora  Hampton. 
CORN  CHOWDER. 

Scrape  one  dozen  ears  of  sweet  corn  from  the  cob  and  put  it  in  a 
granite  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover;  let  boil  twenty  minutes,  skim- 
ming off  the  corn  as  it  floats  on  the  top;  pare  one-half  dozen  potatoes, 
cut  into  slices,  then  mash  and  put  into  water  to  scald.  Fry  an  onion 
in  a  piece  of  butter  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  the  corn  water.  Now 
put  the  potatoes  and  corn,  first  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper,  on  the  fire 
and  let  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes  or  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Put 
in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  pint  of  milk  and  boil  up  again. 
Serve  hot  with  salt  wafers.  Mrs.  C.  I.  Addison, 


SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEATS.  459 

CREAH  OF  LENTILS. 

Soak  two  cupfuls  of  lentils  in  cold  water  for  several  hours,  then  place 
in  a  granite  kettle  over  a  slow  fire  with  two  quarts  of  water,  one  carrot, 
one  onion,  three  whole  peppers,  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  salt  to  taste. 
Cook  for  one  hour  and  rub  through  a  sieve;  put  some  buttered  toast  in 
the  tureen,  pour  over  the  puree  and  serve.  A  Vegetarian. 

CREAM  OF  CHESTNUT  SOUP. 

Boil  in  white  broth  a  pint  of  steamed  chestnuts;  when  tender  mash 
fine,  pass  through  a  sieve,  add  some  good  cream  and  season.  If  not  thick 
enough  add  a  little  flour  and  butter  mixed.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Mira  Madison. 

ONION  AND  CELERY  SOUP. 

One  cupful  of  celery  and  two  onions  finely  chopped;  cook  with  one 
quart  of  water  until  very  tender;  then  add  one  quart  of  rich  milk;  season 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  serve  hot.  Frances  I.  Willard. 

PLAIN  ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

Take  one  quart  of  asparagus,  cut  in  inch-lengths  and  boil  in  one  quart 
of  water  until  tender;  rub  through  a  colander  and  return  to  the  water; 
add  one  pint  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  rubbed  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  cook  five  minutes.  Season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter.    Serve  hot  over  toasted  bread  cut  into  dice.    Ina  M.  Webber. 

SAGO  SOUP. 

Heat  to  boiling  point  two  quarts  of  beef,  sprinkle  into  it  very  gradu- 
ally one-half  cupful  of  sago;  boil  five  minutes,  then  set  the  kettle  in  a 
double  boiler  for  one-half  hour;  skim;  serve  hot. 

Chef  at  Grand  Pacific  Hotel. 

SAGO  SOUP— No.  2. 

One-quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  pearl  sago,  washed  till  the  water 
poured  from  it  is  clear;  then  stew  it  quite  tender  in  water  or  thick  broth 
(it  will  require  about  one  quart  of  liquid,  which  should  be  poured  on  it 
cold  and  heated  very  slowly);  then  mix  with  it  a  pint  of  good,  boiling 
cream  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  mingle  the  whole  carefully  with 
two  quarts  of  strong  veal  or  beef  stock,  which  is  already  boiling. 

Palmer  House. 


460  SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEATS. 

BISQUE  OF  TOMATO. 

One  part  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes;  two  parts  boiling  water,  a 
little  soda;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt  and  very  little  onion. 
Heat  thoroughly.  Take  from  stove  and  stir  in  enough  sweet  cream  to 
turn  soup  as  white  as  desired.  Flavor  with  very  little  powdered  mace  and 
serve  at  once.  H.  B.  Y. 

IONIA  PEA  SOUP. 

Add  one  quart  of  dried  peas  to  five  of  water  and  boil  four  hours. 
Cut  up  three  large  onions,  two  heads  of  celery,  one  carrot  and  two  turnips 
and  add  to  the  boiled  peas  and  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil 
two  hours  more,  thinning  with  water  if  necessary.  Strain  and  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.     Serve  hot  with  dice  of  toast. 

Mrs.  Mary  Covert. 

PUREE  OF  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Cut  one-eighth  of  a  cabbage,  one  carrot,  one  potato,  one-half  turnip, 
one-half  onion  and  some  celery.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  two  or 
three  quarts  of  water.  Salt  to  taste  and  boil  one  and  one-half  hours. 
When  ready  to  serve  add  one  glassful  of  cream  or  milk,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  and  toast  squares.  C.  B.  Preston. 

niNNESOTA  BEAN  SOUP. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night,  and,  in  the  morning,  pour  off  the  water, 
replacing  it  with  fresh  water;  set  on  the  fire  until  the  skins  slip  off  easily; 
now  throw  them  into  cold  water  and  rub  well,  when  the  skins  will  rise  to 
the  top  and  can  be  removed.  Boil  the  beans  until  perfectly  soft,  allowing 
two  quarts  of  water  to  one  quart  of  beans;  mash  the  beans  and  add  flour 
and  butter  rubbed  together,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pass 
the  soup  through  a  colander,  rubbing  all  the  thick  portion  through  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  and  put  into  it  before  serving  toasted  bread  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Mrs.  H.  Hoover. 

TOMATO  SOUP  WITH  ONIONS. 

Slice  two  onions  and  fry  them  in  butter  until  brown;  remove  them 
and  fry  one  dozen  tomatoes  just  sufficient  to  heat  them  through,  then  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan  with  their  gravy  and  the  onions;  add  a  head  of  cel- 
ery and  a  carrot  sliced;  stew  gently  for  one-half  hour^  add  three  pints  of 
gravy;  stew  one  and  one-half  hours;  pulp  the  whole  of  the  vegetables 
through  a  sieve;  season  with  white  pepper,  salt  and  cayenne.  Serve  with 
sippets  of  toasted  bread  cut  in  shapes.  Mrs.  C.  I.  Thurston. 


LIFE  FORCES  FOR  THE  SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT 

1-3-4.     Fresh  Fruits  and  How  to  Serve  Them.  2.     Unfermented  Grape  Juice. 

(See  Pages  445  to  550.)  (See  Page  372.) 


n 


SWEETMEATS    FOR    SOCIAL   GATHERINGS. 

Theresa's  Stuffed  Prunes.  4.     Oranges  in  Fancy  Shapes. 


2.  Fig  Burs  or  Almond  Squares. 

(See  Page  266.) 

3.  Elsie's  Almond  Macaroons. 

(See  Page  277.) 


(See  Page  448.) 

5.  Washed  Figs.     (How  to  Serve.) 

6.  Dates  Stuffed  with  Blanched  Almonds. 

(See  Page  449.) 


SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEATS,  463 

MOCK  BISQUE  SOUP. 

A  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  three  pints  of  milk,  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one  of  butter;  pepper,  salt  and  soda.  Put  the  tomatoes  on  to  stew 
adding  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Boil  milk  in  a  double  boiler  except  enough 
to  mix  with  the  flour.  Add  the  cold  thickened  milk  to  boiling  milk  and 
cook  ten  minutes.  Add  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  then  the  tomatoes 
(strained).     Serve  immediately.  Anna  Dickerson. 

POTATO  SOUP— No.  3. 

Take  four  large  potatoes,  pare  and  slice  thin.  Put  them  into  salt 
water  and  let  stand  five  minutes,  then  put  them  into  a  soup  kettle  to  boil. 
When  done  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  Qgg  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Just  before  serving  stir  in  one  &gg  well  beaten.  Cook 
five  minutes  and  serve.  Mrs.  A.  Marsell. 

POTATO  SOUP— No.  4. 

To  one  quart  of  water  use  one  onion  sliced  fine  and  ten  large  potatoes 
sliced  fine;  boil  until  tender,  say  thirty  minutes,  then  add  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  stirred  with  a  lump  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  St.  Clair. 
CELERY  AND  POTATO  SOUP. 

Chop  fine  enough  celery  to  make  three  cupfuls.  Cook  until  tender 
in  a  little  boiling  water.  Have  heated  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  add  the 
cooked  celery,  salt  to  taste.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour  rubbed  smooth  in 
a  lump  of  butter.  Add  a  cupful  of  mashed  potatoes.  Let  it  get  very 
hot.  Mrs.  R.  T.  Brown. 

CREAM  OF  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Take  the  vegetables  left  from  a  boiled  dinner  (or  fresh  ones  boiled 
until  tender  in  salted  water).  Mash  them  through  a  colander,  add  as 
much  milk  as  you  need  for  your  family,  salt,  pepper,  celery,  salt,  a  slice  of 
onion,  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
each  of  butter  and  flour  creamed  together.  When  thoroughly  cooked 
serve  at  once.  Mrs.  R.  T.  Cross. 


WITH  the  revolution  in  various 
departments  of  household  eco- 
nomics and  an  awakening  as  to  what 
substances  are  injurious  and  what  harm- 
less, has  come  a  cry  against  the  use  of 
Lard  in  cooking.  For  years,  physicians 
have  tried  to  convince  the  public  that 
lard  was  indigestible;  but  its  use  has  gone  on;  not  entirely  because  the  peo- 
ple have  wanted  to  use  it,  but  because  the  substitutes  which  have  been 
tried,  have  proved  a  failure.  Indeed,  some  have  been  quite  as  hurtful  as 
the  article  which  it  was  intended  to  displace,  and  so  unpleasant  in  taste  as 
to  force  people  to  turn  back  again  to  lard.  But  all  these  experiments  have 
led  to  further  search  and  at  last  it  looks  as  if  a  substitute  had  been  found 
which  meets  the  requirements.  Besides  the  merit  of  being  a  pure  vegeta- 
ble fat,  it  is  pleasant  to  the  taste  and  easy  of  digestion.  Ko-nut  is  a  pure, 
sterilized  oil,  made  from  fresh  sweet  cocoanut.  It  will  seem  at  first,  to  those 
using  it,  a  trifle  more  expensive  than  lard,  but  it  is,  after  all,  quite  as  eco- 
nomical, for  not  more  than  two-thirds  as  much  is  required  to  make  a  given 
recipe,  as  of  butter  or  lard.  For  frying,  shortening,  and  cooking,  it 
replaces  butter,  is  not  easily  scorched,  neither  is  much  absorbed  in  the 
cooking.  It  is  now  put  up  in  pails  similar  to  lard  and  has  excellent  keep- 
ing qualities  as  well  as  high  shortening  powers.  Being  comparatively 
new,  it  may  not  as  yet  be  found  at  all  grocers.  Ask  your  grocer  to  get  it 
for  you. 

Miss  Myrtle  Robinson,  a  demonstrator  in  the  new  cooking  school 
kindly  furnishes  us  many  recipes  in  the  following  pages,  which,  according 
to  my  opinion,  are  unsurpassed.  I  quote  here  an  extract  from  the  Chi- 
cago Times-Herald: 

"An  event  of  uncommon  interest  occurred  at  Evanston  this  week  in 
the  series  of  cooking  lessons  and  lectures  given  by  Miss  Myrtle  E.  Robin- 
son, of  Boston,  a  graduate  of  the  New  Era  Cooking  School,  of  Worcester, 
Mass.  Miss  Robinson  is  tall,  quiet  and  engaging  in  personality.  She 
spoke  with  grace  and  easy  flow  of  pure  English,  which,  with  the  thorough 
mastery  of  her  subject,  gave  a  charm  that  was  irresistible,  while  at  the 
time  she  created  new  editions  of  pies,  sandwiches,  salads,  jellies,  and 
divers  dainties  with  such  deft,  precise  and  faultless  motions  as  completely 
to  fascinate  the  eye  and  ear,  holding  all  listeners  as  by  a  charmed  spell. 
The    knowledge  given    of   properties    and   building  power  of  different 

464 


KO-NUT  VERSUS  LARD. 


465 


articles  of  common  food  was  of  great  value  to  the  wives  and  mothers, 
because  it  was  so  practical  and  will  be  so  helpful  in  selecting  a  diet  that 
will  fit  the  body  of  each  member  of  the  family  for  the  work  of  brain, 
nerve  and  muscle.  The  directions  for  making  each  dish,  with  minute 
details  of  kind,  quality  and  strength  of  ingredients,  the  best  way  to  pre- 
pare them,  the  exact  way  to  measure  quantities,  the  length  of  time  for 
cooking  and  all  the  small  points  were  carefully  given,  to  the  delight  of  our 
hearts,  and  all  the  while  the  creation  advanced  and  finally  appeared  in  its 
(one  is  tempted  to  say)  poetic  beauty,  for  indeed  the  finished  product  was 
'a  thing  of  beauty,'  and  'the  proof  of  the  pudding'  was  not  lacking  in  the 
eating.  The  attendance  increased  each  day  and  those  coming  the  last 
day  regretted  their  absence  previous  days." 


|R^iX  FARINACEOUS 


THE  NUTRITIVE  value  of  cereals  when  cooked  properly  makes  them 
nearly  a  perfect  food. 

First  in  the  list,  from  a  nutritive  point,  comes  wheat.  Oats  possess 
more  nitrogenous  matter  than  any  other  grain,  and  that  gives  strength  to 
the  system.  Oats  are  also  flesh-formers.  Corn,  rye,  rice  and  barley  are 
cereals  widely  adopted  as  breakfast  foods. 

There  is  a  large  number  of  these  foods  sold  in  packages,  with  direc- 
tions as  to  the  length  of  time  they  should  be  cooked.  But  in  nearly  every 
case  they  need  longer  boiling,  and  if  the  time  for  cooking  them  were 
extended,  they  would  be  much  more  digestible. 

GRAPE  NUTS. 

For  nervous  people  and  brain  workers  no  cereal  is  better  for  break- 
fast than  Grape  Nuts.  It  can  be  obtained  of  any  grocer.  Directions  for 
use  are  on  each  package.  Mrs.  Gregory. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Boil  a  dozen  ears  of  corn,  or  more  than  are  needed  for  dinner,  and 
while  warm  scrape  them  with  the  corn  cutter,  and  put  the  corn  in  the 
refrigerator  until  morning.  To  two  coffee-cupfuls  of  corn  add  two  or 
three  well-beaten  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  new  milk  and  a 
small  teacupful  of  flour,  with  a  little  salt.  Drop  in  spoonfuls  into  hot  fat 
and  fry  a  light  brown.  Or  else  cook  them  on  the  griddle  iron  like  any 
other  cakes.  Mrs.  Lucy  Blanchard. 

CORN  FRITTERS— No.  2. 

Six  grated  ears  of  corn  or  one  can  of  corn  strained  through  a  colander 
and  chopped.  Add  one  cupful  of  milk,  a  generous  pinch  of  salt  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  stirred  into  two-thirds  cupful  of  milk;  two 
eggs  not  beaten,  but  stirred  in  well;  drop  by  the  spoonful  into  boiling  fat 
and  drain  on  paper.     Serve  hot.  J.  E.  A. 

466 


CEREALS  AND  FARINACEOUS  DISHES.  467 

NOODLES  BAKED. 

The  paste  for  noodles  is  composed  of  eggs  and  flour.  Boil  a  sufficient 
number  of  them,  drain  and  cover  them  with  cold  milk  in  a  stew-pan.  Add 
an  ounce  of  butter,  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  and  pepper  and  grated 
nutmeg.  Turn  them  over  the  fire  several  times,  then  pile  them  on  a  hot 
dish,  cover  them  with  grated  bread-crumbs  and  brown  them  in  a  quick 
oven.     Serve  hot.  Mrs.  Lydia  Fay. 

PATTIES  OF  RICE. 

In  a  saucepan  put  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  that  has  been  washed 
carefully  through  three  or  four  waters,  cover  it  with  white  stock  and  boil 
slowly  till  the  rice  has  absorbed  all  the  liquid.  Add  a  little  milk  to  give 
the  rice  a  white  appearance.  Grate  Parmesan  cheese  and  add  it  to  taste, 
and  when  the  rice  begins  to  be  jellied,  turn  it  into  a  dish,  making  it  two 
inches  thick.     Cut  the  patties  out  with  a  round  biscuit  cutter. 

Mrs.  E.  Locke. 
RICE  MLFFI.N5. 

Mix  six  cupfuls  of  rice  flakes,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  four  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  Ko-nut.     Bake  twenty-five  minutes. 

Myrtle  Robinson. 

FLAKED  RICE  FRITTERS. 

Take  four  cupfuls  of  flaked  rice,  one  cupful  of  flour,  two  level  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  of  paprica,  one  ^%^j  one  cupful  of  milk.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
hot  Ko-nut  and  fry  five  minutes.  Myrtle  Robinson. 

RICE  CROOLETTES. 

Put  two  cupfuls  of  rice  into  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  water  and  boil 
until  soft.  Take  up  a  little  at  a  time  in  a  spoon,  roll  it  into  a  pear-shape 
and  dip  them  into  ft^g^g  and  bread-crumbs,  fr>'  carefully  in  boiling  fat  or 
Ko-nut,  drain  and  place  them  on  a  napkin,  garnish  neatly  with  parsley 
and  serve.  B.  A.  P. 

FRLIT  BI5CLITS. 

Mix  graham  flour  with  just  enough  of  scalded  figs — previously  washed 
— to  make  an  adherent  dough  by  much  kneading;  roll  or  cut  into  biscuits 
one-half  inch  thick,  and  two  or  three  inches  square;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

E.  S.  F. 


468  CEREALS  AND  FARINACEOUS  DISHES. 

SAQO  PORRIDGE. 

Soak  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sago  ten  minutes  in  a  quart  of  cold  water. 
Boil  it  gently  one  hour  and  season  with  a  little  sugar.  Pour  it  into  the 
soup  plates.  G.  N.  R. 

FARINA  GRUEL. 

This  is  very  nutritive.  A  nice  gruel  which  strengthens  is  made  by 
the  addition  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  farina  to  a  gill  of  water.  Pour  very 
slowly  on  the  mixture  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  stirring  thoroughly  and 
boiling  ten  minutes.  Mrs.  Kate  Collins. 

CORN=STARCH  BLANC  MANGE. 

Dissolve  one-half  pound  of  corn-starch  in  a  pint  of  cold  milk;  then 
put  it  into  three  pints  of  boiling  milk;  and  boil  very  moderately  five  or 
six  minutes.  L.  F.  T. 

CORN-=MEAL  HUSH. 

Sift  with  one  hand  into  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  enough  corn-meal 
to  make  a  thick  gruel.  Stir  it  till  all  the  lumps  are  smoothed  out.  Set  it 
on  the  back  of  the  range  and  let  it  cook  a  couple  of  hours.  Use  cream,  or 
butter  and  sugar  on  it.  F.  E.  P. 

TO  FRY  CORN  MUSH. 

Boil  the  corn-meal  the  day  before,  and  put  it  in  a  deep  square  tin  with 
straight  sides.  This  makes  the  slices  look  even  when  cut.  Have  the 
slices  all  of  one  size.  Roll  each  one  in  egg  and  flour  and  fry  in  Ko-nut 
oil.     They  must  be  turned,  so  as  to  have  a  crust  on  both  sides. 

Mrs.  p.  Pfennig. 
TO  STEAM  RICE. 

Rice  should  be  cooked  so  as  to  leave  the  grains  whole,  consequently 
it  should  be  first  washed  through  cold  water  several  times,  or  until  that 
floury  substance  is  washed  off.  Then  take  a  cup  of  rice  and  put  it  in  a 
pan  with  three  cupfuls  of  cold  water.  Put  it  in  a  steamer  and  cook  one 
hour.  If  it  thickens  too  much  add  boiling  water.  Have  a  fruit  sauce  to 
eat  with  it,  warm.  L.  C.  A. 

RICE  CUTLETS. 

One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  rice,  one-half  pound  of  cold  meat,  one  onion, 
one-fourth  pound  of  bread-crumbs;  boil  the  rice  and  strain  it,  chop  up  the 
meat  and  onions  small,  and  mix  with  rice;  sprinkle  one  salt-spoonful  of 
salt  and  one-fourth  salt-spoonful  of  pepper  over  it;    mix  well  together, 


CEREALS  AND  FARINACEOUS  DISHES.  469 

with  just  a  little  milk  to  make  a  paste;  let  the  mixture  set  on  a  plate;  cut 
into  the  shape  of  mutton  cutlets;  dip  in  ^gg  and  bread-crumbs.  Fry  a 
golden  brown;  serve  with  tomato  sauce.  M.  E.  M. 

CORN  BREAD  MADE  WITH  KO=NUT. 

One  quart  of  sifted  yellow  or  white  meal,  three  cupfuls  of  buttermilk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one-half  cupful  of  molasses,  one  ^gg,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  Ko-nut,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir 
well  and  bake  in  a  moderate  hot  oven  one  hour.  E.  E.  A. 

BAKING-POWDER  BISCUIT. 

Mix  four  cupfuls  of  pastry  flour,  eight  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  into  this  with  tips  of  fingers  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  Ko-nut,  then  moisten  with  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
milk.  Roll  three-fourths  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  and  bake  in  hot 
oven  ten  minutes.  Myrtle  Robinson. 

STEAHED  FIG  PUDDING. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  shredded  wheat  biscuit  crumbs,  one-half  cupful 
entire-wheat  flour,  one-half  package  of  fig  mince,  one-fourth  teaspoonful 
each  of  salt,  allspice  and  cinnamon,  one-third  cupful  of  molasses  and  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda  mixed,  also  one  cupful  of  cold  water,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  Ko-nut.  Steam  this  pudding  till  done.  The  shredded 
wheat  can  be  obtained  at  all  the  leading  grocery  stores. 

Myrtle  Robinson. 
SHREDDED  WHEAT  CROUTONS. 

Spread  shredded  wheat  biscuit  with  Ko-nut,  cut  into  fourths  cross- 
wise and  toast  until  brown.     Serve  hot.  Myrtle  Robinson. 

KO-NUT  MUFFINS. 

One  e.gg  beaten  light,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  melted  Ko-nut,  two  teaspoonfuls  (level)  of  bak- 
ing-powder and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  not  too  stiff.  Mix  thor- 
oughly the  baking-powder  and  salt  with  the  flour.  Stir  the  beaten  egg, 
sugar  and  milk  together;  add  the  melted  Ko-nut  then  the  flour.  Turn 
into  gem  pans  and  bake  at  once  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes.  H.  F.  L. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Three  eggs,  a  third  of  a  cupful  of  Ko-nut,  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a 
cupful  of  milk,  a  cupful  of  yeast,  a  pint  of  flour  and  nutmeg.  Make  these 
up  at  ten  in  the  morning  to  use  for  tea  in  the  evening.  E.  S.  C. 


470  CEREALS  AND  FARINACEOUS  DISHES. 

WHEATEN  GRITS. 

Put  two  cupfuls  of  grits  in  a  kettle  with  water  to  cover,  and  a  little 

salt.     Set  on  the  fire,  stir  occasionally  but  do  not  let  it  scorch.    It  requires 

an  hour  to  do  it  to  perfection.     Serve  in  a  vegetable  dish  with  milk  and 

sugar  at  hand.  D.  I.  P. 

WHEAT-MEAL  WAFERS. 

Mix  unbolted  flour  with  cold  water  into  a  thin  dough.  Shape  this 
dough  into  small  round  cakes,  one-sixth  of  an  inch  thick.  Bake  in  a  range 
oven  rather  slowly.  A.  C.  F. 

RICE  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Soak  over  night  one  quart  of  cold  boiled  rice  in  five  gills  of  milk;  the 
next  morning  add  one  quart  of  milk  and  stir  in  nearly  as  much  flour,  and 
two  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  on  a  soap-stone  griddle.  Fine  bread-crumbs 
or  rusked  bread  mixed  with  the  rice,  improve  this  cake.  M.  H.  N. 

RICE  DODGERS. 

Boil  soft  one-half  pound  of  rice  in  salted  water;   when  cold  add  one 

egg,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  one-half  package  self-rising  flour.     Soak 

a  slice  of  bread  in  water,  drain  and  take  off  the  crust;    mix  well  with  the 

rice  and  cook  by  dropping  a  spoonful  at  a  time  in  boiling  lard  or  Ko-nut. 

The  dodgers  must  not  touch  the  bottom  of  the  pot.      Serve  with   hot 

coffee.  Greta  M.  T. 

CRACKED  WHEAT. 

To  four  small  cupfuls  of  boiling  water  stir  in  one  cupful  of  cracked 

wheat  and  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt.     Boil  in  double  boiler  two  hours; 

serve  hot  for  breakfast  or  pour  into  a  mold  and  serve  cold,  with  cream 

and  sugar  for  luncheon.  Lillie. 

RICE  CAKES. 

Two  ounces  of  flour,  four  ounces  of  ground  rice;  mix  the  flour  and 
rice  together  while  in  its  dry  state;  four  ounces  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of 
butter,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  one-half  the  flour  and  one  ^gg,,  then  the 
remainder  of  flour,  ^gg  and  baking-powder;  grease  some  gem  pans,  fill 
two-thirds  full  with  the  mixture;  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  Philander. 
HOT  CEREAL  ROLLS. 

Mush,  or  any  cereal  that  can  be  warmed  over,  will  make  nice  rolls. 
Add  graham  flour  to  form  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  it  very  little,  cut  it  into 
shape  of  rolls  and  bake  quickly.  If  the  mush  was  of  corn-meal  fine  white 
flour  may  be  added.  H.  F.  L. 


CEREALS  AND  FARINACEOUS  DISHES.  471 

A  BREAKFAST  SHORTCAKE. 

Take  a  teacupful  of  sweet  milk  and  two  spoonfuls  of  rich  sweet 
cream.  Add  salt  and  stir  in  a  spoonful  at  a  time  of  coarse  flour  or 
"shorts."  When  quite  thick  knead  in  fine  flour  till  it  will  roll  nicely. 
Roll  out  less  than  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Place  quickly  in  buttered 
pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  It  is  to  be  eaten  hot  and  is  nice  for  break- 
fast on  a  cold  morning.  Mrs.  M.  Palmer. 

BANNOCKS. 

Two  teacupfuls  of  oatmeal  or  barley  meal  sifted  with  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking-powder;  add  to  two  beaten  eggs  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  one  pint  of  milk  with  a  little  salt,  sifting  in  the  oatmeal.  Bake  on  a 
griddle.  M.  V.  M. 

CORN-MEAL  MUSH. 

Put  two  quarts  of  water  into  a  kettle,  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  now  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt  and  sift  in  through  the  fingers  of  the  left  hand  fresh 
yellow  corn-meal,  a  handful  at  a  time  stirring  constantly  with  a  pudding 
stick,  with  the  right;  continue  to  stir  and  add  meal  until  it  is  as  thick  as 
you  can  stir  easily;  stir  it  a  while  longer;  let  it  cook  at  least  twenty  min- 
utes and  it  is  ready  for  the  table.     To  be  eaten  with  milk. 

Martha  Higbee. 
FRIED  MUSH. 

Prepare  as  above,  pour  into  a  mold  and  when  cold  slice  and  fry  in  drip- 
pings to  a  golden  brown.     Serve  for  breakfast  with  maple  syrup. 

Martha  Higbee. 
GRAHAM  MUSH. 

Make  same  as  corn-meal  mush;  sift  the  flour  and  stir  it  gently  into 
boiling  water,  stirring  it  all  the  time.  M.  H. 

PETTIJOHN  MUSH. 

This  is  a  breakfast  food  which  can  be  procured  at  every  grocery.  It 
is  excellent  and  appetizing;  easy  to  make.  Rule  for  making  on  each 
package.  Mrs.  White. 

CRACKED  WHEAT— No.  2. 

Soak  about  one  quart  of  cracked  wheat  over  night  in  cold  water. 
Then  cook  thoroughly  in  water  slightly  salted,  using  only  the  amount  of 
water  that  the  wheat  will  absorb.  Emma  B. 


473  CEREALS  AND  FARINACEOUS  DISHES. 

OATMEAL. 

Use  about  one  cupful  of  oatmeal  to  each  quart  of  water.     Salt  and 

cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thoroughly  done,  or  if  preferred  it  can  be 

steamed.  Julia  Miller. 

RICE. 

Rice  is  said  to  be  the  most  healthful  food  known  to  man.  Even  the 
sick  can  eat  it  where  nothing  else  agrees.  The  simplest  and  easiest  way 
to  prepare  it  is  to  wash  and  put  over  the  stove  in  plenty  of  cold  water. 
Salt  slightly  and  cook  till  tender;  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Julia  Smith. 
BOILED  HOMINY. 

Wash  a  quart  of  hominy  in  cold  water  and  then  soak  twelve  hours  in 

tepid  water;    put  it  over  a  slow  fire  with  the  water  in  which  it  has  been 

soaking,  and  boil  gently  for  five  hours,  adding  more  water  from  time  to 

time.     Do  not  add  salt  while  cooking  but  season  when  it  comes  from  the 

stove.  Y.  C. 

HOniNY  CROQUETTES. 

Take  one  pint  of  hot  cooked  hominy,  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  milk 
and  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Beat  all  together,  season  with  salt  and  let  stand 
till  cool.  Shape  the  mixture  into  croquettes,  then  roll  them  in  bread- 
crumbs and  fry  in  Ko-nut  to  a  golden  brown.  Drain,  lay  them  on  a  nap- 
kin and  serve.  A.  T.  O. 

FRIED  HOMINY. 

Stir  together  some  cold  boiled  hominy,  one  egg  well  beaten,  one 

tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  a  small  quantity  of  milk.     Heat  over 

a  slow  fire  and  turn  into  mold  and  dredge  lightly  with  flour.     When  cold 

slice,  put  a  lump  of  Ko-nut  into  a  flat  stew-pan  and  when  hot  put  in  the 

slices  and  fry  until  brown.     Drain,  pile  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  maple 

syrup.  C.  A.  I. 

BAKED  MACARONI. 

Break  up  one-half  of  a  box  of  macaroni  into  small  pieces  and  put  into 
a  saucepan  with  boiling  salted  water.  When  tender  drain  and  put  it  into 
a  stew-pan.  Add  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  add  one-fourth  pound  of  butter, 
three  ounces  of  grated  cheese  and  pour  into  a  baking-dish.  Sprinkle  with 
a  little  more  cheese  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes.  E.  J.  C. 

MACARONI  WITH  TOHATOES. 

Break  one-fourth  of  a  box  of  macaroni  in  lengths  about  two  Inches, 
plunge  them  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  salted  water  and  boil  for  twenty- 


II 


CEREALS  AND  FARINACEOUS  DISHES.  473 

five  minutes.  Take  out,  drain,  and  put  them  in  a  baking-dish;  mix  in 
one  ounce  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  one  teacupful  of  stewed  tomatoes, 
a  lump  of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Place  the  dish  in  a  slow 
oven,  allow  the  mixture  to  simmer  gently  for  thirty  minutes  and  serve. 

G.  D. 
BOILED  HACARONI. 

A  plain  way  to  cook  macaroni  is  to  break  it  into  inch-lengths  and  lay 
it  in  a  saucepan  containing  boiling  water  and  salt.  It  cooks  in  twenty- 
five  minutes.  It  makes  a  good-sized  dish.  To  be  eaten  for  dinner  with 
cream.  Mrs.  R.  Ellison. 


AS- AN  ARTICLE 
OF-DIET 


THE  CRAVINGS  of  the  human  palate  are  changing  very  essentially. 
Once,  nuts  were  regarded  as  a  luxury,  a  dainty  only  to  be  used  ' 
between  meals,  or  something  for  the  children  on  extra  occasions;  but 
to-day  they  are  looked  upon  as  an  assistant  to  the  forces  of  nature  in 
imparting  nutriment.  They  produce  heat  and  form  flesh.  They  take  the 
place  of  meat  and  are  subject  to  no  adulterations.  They  yield  bounteously 
under  cultivation  and  have  become  one  of  the  most  important  articles  of 
commerce. 

By  some  scientists  they  are  regarded  as  superior  to  meat  and  the  fact 
that  they  can  be  used  in  so  many  forms  in  the  culinary  department  recom- 
mends them  to  the  housewife  who  is  always  ready  to  extend  her  repertoire 
of  choice  foods. 

The  chestnut  was  a  prominent  article  of  food  among  the  ancients, 
and  is  to-day  made  into  bread  in  many  countries.  The  peasantry  of  the 
south  of  France  make  a  daily  dish  of  boiled  chestnuts  and  milk  and 
thrive  upon  it. 

Flour  made  from  the  peanut  is  found  to  be  more  nutritious  than  that 
ground  from  any  of  the  cereals;  butter  made  from  it  (peanut  butter)  is 
also  becoming  a  staple  article  of  commerce  and  is  used  by  vegetarians 
instead  of  butter  made  from  cow's  milk. 

It  is  certain  that  a  gain  in  flesh  is  observed  where  nuts  compose  the 
main  article  of  diet.  It  is  said  by  some  that  nuts  are  heavy  and  clog  the 
system.  The  reason  for  this  complaint  is  that  they  are  usually  eaten  after 
a  meal  that  is  already  too  heavy.  Another  reason,  some  people  cannot 
thoroughly  masticate  them.  This  brings  into  prominence  their  value  when 
they  are  ground  and  cooked,  and  the  fact  that  they  afford  a  nearly  per- 
fect substitute  for  animal  foods.     There  are  several   delicious  products 

474 


NUTS  AS  AN  ARTICLE  OF  DIET.  4'}'5 

formed  from  nuts  which  can  be  procured  at  all  the  groceries.     We  append 
a  few  of  the  best  ones  with  recipes  for  their  preparation. 

NUT  BUTTER. 

This  butter  is  a  thoroughly  sterilized  product  of  edible  nut  meats,  a 
more  than  perfect  substitute  for  butter,  as  it  makes  blood  as  well  as  fat. 
Makes  a  perfect  emulsion  with  water.  It  is  recognized  as  a  great  delicacy 
wherever  used.     Keeps  perfectly.     Put  up  in  tins  of  different  sizes. 

Place  the  desired  quantity  of  nut  butter  in  a  bowl,  add  a  few  drops  of 
water  and  beat  with  a  fork  until  smooth.  For  nut  cream,  prepare  the 
same  as  above,  add  a  little  more  water  until  of  the  consistency  desired. 
For  nut  milk  add  four  or  five  parts  of  water  to  one  of  nut  butter. 

W.  T.  M. 
NUT  LOAF. 

Three  cupfuls  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
chopped  hickory  nuts,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  seeded  raisins,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix,  adding  sufficient  hot  water  to  moisten.  Cover 
and  let  stand  ten  minutes.  Add  one  cupful  more  of  hot  water  and  turn 
into  buttered  pan.  Bake  one  and  one  quarter  hour  in  moderate  oven  and 
serve  cold.  A.  A.  C. 

NUT  LOAF— No.  2. 

The  most  delightful  combinations  may  be  made  with  left-over  foods 
combined  with  bread-crumbs,  soups,  nut  preparations,  with  or  without 
tomato  or  browned  flour.  The  seasoning  may  be  varied  with  onion,  mint, 
thyme,  sage,  savory,  marjoram,  caraway,  celery  seed  or  leaves  or  stalks. 
In  using  protose,  take  equal  quantities  of  that  and  very  dry  but  not  too  fine 
bread-crumbs  (if  they  are  moist,  twice  the  quantity  will  be  required), 
chopped  onion,  and  a  trifle  of  mint  (not  over  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful 
to  a  good-sized  loaf),  with  a  little  strained  tomato,  and  water  and  salt. 
The  mixture  should  be  quite  dry,  after  standing  a  few  minutes  for  the 
crumbs  (if  dry)  to  become  moistened.  It  should  not  seem  watery  when 
pressed  together  with  the  hand,  but  should  be  just  moist  enough  to  hold 
together;  if  too  moist,  the  loaf  will  be  solid  and  soggy  when  baked;  or  if 
not  baked  long  enough  it  will  be  too  soft  to  slice  nicely.  When  prepared, 
press  the  mixture  into  an  oiled,  brick-shaped  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  one  hour,  or  until  it  feels  rather  firm  when  pressed  with  the 
fingers.  Loosen  the  sides,  turn  out  on  a  board,  and  slice  carefully  with  a 
thin,  sharp  knife.     Serve  with  brown  gravy  or  tomato  sauce.         E.  J.  S. 


I 


476  NUTS  AS  AN  ARTICLE  OF  DIET 

NUT  SOUP. 

Break  into  small  pieces  one  cupful  of  hickory  and  almond  nuts  of 
equal  amounts.  Simmer  in  two  pints  of  water  seasoned  with  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  slice  of  onion  and  two  stalks  of  celery.  When  ten- 
der add  one  cupful  of  rich  milk  or  cream.     This  soup  may  be  strained  or 

not,  as  desired.  H.  O.  C. 

NUT  SOUP— No.  2. 

Simmer  a  pint  of  Lima  beans  gently  in  just  sufficient  water  to  cook 
and  not  burn,  until  they  have  fallen  to  pieces.     Add  more  boiling  water  i 
as  needed.     When  done,  rub  the  beans  through  a  colander.     Add  nut  ' 
soup  stock  to  make  of  the  proper  consistency  and  salt  to  season.     Reheat 
and  serve.     White  beans  may  be  used  in  place  of  Lima  beans,  but  they  \ 
require   longer   cooking.      A  heaping  tablespoonful  of   sago,  previously  ' 
soaked  in  cold  water,  may  be  added  to  the  soup  when  it  is  reheated,  if 
liked,  and  the  whole  cooked  until  the  sago  is  transparent.  F.  M.  P. 

NUT  CROQUETTES. 

Steam  one-half  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  in  one  cupful  of  water  with 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt  for  one  hour  or  until  tender.  Add  to  this 
an  equal  bulk  of  dry  simmered  protose,  one  ^gg  and  salt  to  taste;  shape, 
roll  in  fine  bread-crumbs;  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  If 
liked  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  or  celery  may  be  added  before 
shaping.  Protose  as  it  comes  from  the  can  chopped  may  be  used  if  pre- 
ferred. H.  F.  L. 

ALnOND  PUDDING. 

Soak    three    tablespoonfuls    of    finely-grated  bread-crumbs  in   milk. 

Add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  blanched  and  pounded  almonds,  a  piece  of 

butter  the  size  of  an  egg  melted  in  a  pint  of  new  milk,  sugar  to  taste,  a 

teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon-rind,  a  little  nutmeg  and  three  eggs  well 

beaten.    A  glass  of  wine  may  be  added  if  approved  of.    Place  in  a  pudding 

dish  lined  with  paste,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Sarah  Bullard. 
PEANUT  BEANS. 

A  dish  closely  resembling  baked  beans  is  afforded  by  taking  the  Vir- 
gina  shelled  raw  peanuts.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  boil  for  five 
minutes.  When  cool  slip  the  brown  skins  off,  with  the  fingers.  Put  in  the 
bean  pot  about  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  to  each  pound  of 
nuts  and  a  large  quantity  of  boiling  water.  Let  them  boil  fast  for  one 
hour  or  so,  then  place  them  in  a  slow  oven  where  they  will  gently  simmer 


NUTS  AS  AN  ARTICLE  OF  DIET.  477 

for  from  eight  to  fourteen  hours.     If  the  water  evaporates,  add  boiling 

water  and  let  it  settle  through  them  without  stirring  them.     They  should 

be  slightly  juicy  when  done.  Mrs.  Adelaide  Haigh. 

Salted  nuts  are  served  with  dinner,  and  are  eaten  at  any  time  during 

the  meal. 

PROTOSE  ROAST  WITH  BROWN  GRAVY. 

Put  alternate  layers  of  sliced  protose  and  finely  sliced  onion,  with  salt, 
in  a  small  tin  or  dripper.  Cover  with  water  and  bake  slowly  for  two  or 
three  hours,  adding  water  as  required.  When  ready  to  serve,  remove  the 
protose  from  the  tin,  add  more  water  to  that  left  in  the  tin,  if  necessary, 
and  thicken  with  a  mixture  of  brown  and  white  flour  stirred  up  with 
water.  This  may  be  served  with  peeled  baked  potatoes,  or  the  potatoes 
may  be  baked  with  the  protose.  I.  T.  O. 

WALNUTS. 

Put  large,  sound  nuts  into  an  earthen  pan,  and  pour  over  them  as 
much  cold  water  slightly  salted  as  will  cover  them.  Leave  them  until  the 
next  day  and  rub  them  dry  before  using  them.  They  make  a  good  des- 
sert. E.  F.  I. 

PRESSED  PROTOSE  LOAF. 

Break  up  protose  slightly  with  a  fork,  add  salt,  a  very  little  sage,  and, 
if  necessary,  a  little  water  to  make  the  protose  hold  together.  Pack  it 
into  an  oiled  tin,  put  a  weight  on  it,  press  firmly,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool 
place  several  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  run  a  knife  blade  around 
from  the  edge  of  the  tin,  turn  the  contents  out  carefully,  slice  with  a  thin, 
sharp  knife,  and  serve  with  onion  points,  cranberry  sauce,  jelly,  or  celery. 
A  little  Nuttolene  may  be  used  with  the  protose.  Minced  yolks  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  are  an  improvement  in  the  loaf.  Seasoning  with  celery  salt 
and  a  little  lemon  juice  instead  of  the  sage,  salt  and  water  makes  another 
variety.  Minced  onion  with  or  instead  of  the  sage  gives  a  different  dish. 
This  may  be  broiled  before  serving  if  desired  and  served  with  sour-apple 

sauce.  C.  A.  T. 

SOUR  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Rub  two  slightly  rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  peanut  or  almond  butter 
smooth  with  two-thirds  of  a.  cupful  of  water  (the  half-pint  cupful  sold  in 
stores),  according  to  directions  for  preparing  the  nut  butter  for  bread  Let 
this  cream  boil  up  for  a  moment  over  the  fire.  Remove  from  the  stove, 
add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-juice. 
Cool,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  If  too  thick,  it  may  be  thinned  with  a  little 
lemon  juice  or  water.     More  salt  and  lemon  juice  may  be  added  if  desired. 


4^8  NUTS  AS  AN  ARTICLE  OF  DIET. 

By  using  a  scant  cupful  of  strained  stewed  tomato  in  place  of  the  water  in 

the  above,  with  the  almond  butter,  we  have   a  palatable  and  very  pretty 

dressing.  A.  P.  V. 

NUT  BUTTER  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  a  loaf  of  bread  in  two  in  the  center,  spread  the  cut  surface  of  each 
half  with  nut  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  if  desired.  Cut  off  a  thin  slice 
from  each  half  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  lay  the  two  spread  surfaces 
together.  Continue  to  spread  and  cut  the  slices  until  you  have  the 
required  number  of  sandwiches.  Thin  slices  of  protose,  or  a  lettuce  leaf 
with  salad  dressing,  or  both,  may  be  laid  between  the  slices.        U.  P.  A. 

SALTED  ALMONDS. 

Blanch  the  almonds  by  putting  the  meats  in  boiling  water,  let  stand  a 
few  moments.  Remove  the  hulls  and  dry  the  nuts.  Put  about  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter  in  a  long  flat  tin,  and  when  it  melts  put  in  the  nuts.  Sprinkle  a 
little  salt  over  them,  and  let  them  brown,  stirring  often.  Be  careful  not  to 
let  them  brown  too  much.  Take  them  off,  put  on  a  paper  to  absorb  the 
fat  and  sprinkle  well  with  salt.  W.  F.  A. 

SALTED  PEANUTS. 

The  peanuts  must  be  shelled  and  blanched.  Put  them  in  a  pan  with  a 
little  butter  and  fry  them  quickly.  Remove  them  to  a  colander  and 
sprinkle  them  with  fine  salt,  shaking  them  constantly.  They  may  be 
served  in  little  trays  at  each  plate.  E.  J.  A. 

SALTED  PISTACHIO  NUTS. 

Pistachio  nuts  salted  are  so  expensive  an  item,  but  such  a  picturesque 
addition  to  the  table  that  one  should  learn  how  to  prepare  them  at  home. 
Take  a  cupful  of  the  shelled  nuts,  blanch  them  and  after  removing  the 
skins  stir  in  some  salt  and  a  little  sweet  oil — perhaps  a  tablespoonful.  Let 
the  nuts  stand  for  one-half  hour,  then  put  them  in  an  oven  to  become 
crisp,  but  not  too  brown.  They  should  be  served  in  a  tinted  china  dish 
that  harmonizes  with  the  color  of  the  nuts,  or  in  a  bonbon  basket  of  fili- 
gree silver.  A  few  chopped  pistachios  scattered  thickly  over  a  charlotte 
russe  add  to  the  appearance  and  fiavor  of  the  dessert.  A.  C.  F. 

PEANUT  POUND  CAKE. 

Three  large  or  four  small  eggs,  a  scant  cupful  of  granulated  sugar, 
one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  one  tablespoonful  of  ice  water,  one  cup 
of  sifted  nut  meal,  one-half  cupful  of  sliced  citron,  if  desired,  one-half  to 


J 


8 


L_ 


TEACH  THE  BOYS  AND  GIRLS  TO  MAKE  THEIR  OWN  CANDY 


And  yet  we  check  and  chide 
The  airy  angels  as  they  float  about  us, 

Stanley's  Fudges. 
Miss  Parloa's  Chocolate  Creams. 
Edwin's  Ribbon  Candy. 
Fancy  Bon  Bon  Basket. 


With  rules  of  so-called  wisdom,  till  they  grow 

The  same  tame  slaves  to  custom  and  the  world.— W/ri.   Osgood. 

5.  Palmer's  Pineapple  Glace. 

6.  Janet's  Peppermint  Drops 

7.  Ethel's  Candied  Cherries. 

8.  Crystallized  Lemon.     (Southern  Recipe.) 


GOODIES  FOR  THE  LUNCH  BOX  AND  HOW  TO  MAKE  THEM 

Greenacre  Hermits.     (See  Page  269.)  4-     Unsurpassed  Raisin  Pies. 

Elsie's  Cocoanut  Cookies.     (See  Page  270.)  (See  Page  219.) 

Nut  Macaroons— French  Recipe.  5-     Mrs.  Payne's  Canadian  Coffee  Cake. 

(See  Page  362.)  (See  P;ige  247) 


NUrS  AS  AN  ARTICLE  OF  DIET.  481 

two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  pastry  flour,  sifted  once  before  measuring;  salt. 
Have  the  ingredients  as  nearly  ice-cold  as  possible.  Sift  the  sugar;  sift 
the  flour  twice  and  leave  it  in  the  sifter.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
adding  sugar  gradually.  When  stiff  add  part  of  the  water  and  more 
sugar.  Beat,  add  more  water,  sugar,  and  one-half  the  lemon  juice  until 
all  the  sugar  is  in.  Stir  into  this  mixture  one-half  the  nut  meal,  a  good 
pinch  of  salt  and  the  citron.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  moderately 
stiff  froth,  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  lemon  juice, 
and  beat  until  dry  and  feathery.  Slide  the  beaten  whites  on  the  yolk 
mixture,  sprinkle  part  of  the  nut  meal  over  them,  sift  on  a  little  flour  and 
chop  in  lightly.  Add  more  meal  and  flour;  chop;  continue  until  the  flour 
is  all  in.  Take  care  not  to  mix  too  much.  Put  into  a  pan  at  once  and 
bake  slowly  in  an  oven  that  bakes  well  from  the  bottom.  Handle  care- 
fully when  taking  from  the  oven.  If  a  gasoline  oven  is  used,  the  fire  may 
be  turned  off  and  the  cake  allowed  to  cool  in  the  oven.  M.  E.  P. 

I  HARD  SAUCE  OF  NUTS. 

Rub  together  equal  quantities  of  nut  butter  and  sugar  with  a  little 
salt  and  add  water  to  make  it  smooth.  A  little  more  water  makes  a 
cream  sauce.  M.  B.  C. 

NUT  SAUCE  FOR  VEGETABLES. 

Cream  two  large  spoonfuls  of  Brazil  nuts  with  warm  water,  then  stir 
in  gradually  nearly  a  pint  of  hot  water.  Mix  in  one-half  cupful  of  tomato 
that  has  been  stewed  and  strained.  Boil  it  up  once  and  thicken  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  cook  till  done — about  six  minutes. 

E.  G.  Don. 
PROTOSE  CHOPS. 

Dip  thin  slices  of  protose  (which  can  be  procured  at  the  grocer's),  with 
any  flavor  you  prefer,  into  beaten  egg  and  bread-crumbs  and  broil.  Serve 
with  a  brown  or  tomato  sauce.     Garnish  with  parsley.  A.  C.  F. 

•  HAZEL  NUT  CAKES. 

Mince  very  finely  two  ounces  of  hazel  nuts  and  one-half  ounce  of 
sweet  almonds.  Add  three  ounces  of  pounded  and  sifted  sugar,  the  white 
of  an  egg,  beaten  to  a  firm  froth,  and  as  much  flour  as  will  bind  them 
together.  Roll  the  paste  out  till  it  is  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  stamp 
it  out  in  small  round  cakes,  place  these  on  well-buttered  tins,  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven  twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  R.  Swarts. 


482  NUTS  AS  AN  ARTICLE  OF  DIET 

HAZEL  NUT  TARTS, 

One  scant  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten, 
one  pound  of  hazel  nuts.  The  nuts  should  be  ground  and  one-third  of 
them  kept  for  filling.  Filberts  can  be  used  if  preferred.  Grind  bread 
enough  to  make  one  and  one-quarter  cupfuls  and  keep  one-third  of  that 
for  filling.  First  mix  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs,  then  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  rum,  then  the  nuts,  bread,  and  whites  of  eggs.     Bake  in  two  layers. 

Filling. — One  cupful  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  but 
ter  the  size  of  an  Qgg;  let  them  come  to  a  boil.     Set  aside  and  add  the 
remaining  nuts,  bread,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  rum. 

Frosting. — One  and  one-third  cupfuls  of  confectioner's  sugar,  with 
cream  added  to  make  it  stiff.     Flavor  with  almond  or  vanilla  extract. 

Mrs.  M.  Sontag. 

NUT  SANDWICHES. 

Butter  very  thin  slices  of  Boston  brown  bread  and  lay  finely  chopped 
almonds  between  the  slices.  Salt  them  very  lightly — a  mere  dash  of  salt 
should  be  used.  G.  D. 

PEANUT  SANDWICHES. 

Shell  and  remove  the  skins  from  one  cupful  of  freshly-roasted  pea- 
nuts; chop  very  fine,  mix  with  one  tablespoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Spread  with  butter  and  cut  thin  slices  of  white  bread,  remove  crusts  and 
spread  the  peanut  dressing  between  the  slices.  Anna  Hill. 

NUT  CORN  PUDDING. 

Put  thin  slices  of  protose  into  a  three-quart  basin  in  layers,  with  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  finely  sliced  celery,  salt,  and  a  slight  dredging  of  flour 
until  one-half  or  two-thirds  full.  Cover  well  with  water  and  bake  from 
one-half  hour  to  one  hour.  Then  spread  over  it  the  following  corn  pudding, 
sprinkle  lightly  with  fine  crumbs  and  bake  until  a  delicate  brown  over  the 
top.  •  Mrs.  J.  M.  C. 

CORN  PUDDING. 

Two  cans  of  sweet  corn  rubbed  through  a  colander,  three  well-beaten 
eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk;  salt  to  taste.  Mrs.  J.  M.  C. 

NUT  BREAD. 

Make  brown  or  white  bread  the  usual  way  and  just  before  forming 
into  loaves  drop  in  a  generous  handful  of  pecan  nuts  in  one  loaf.  This 
makes  a  change  and  is  greatly  enjoyed  by  the  children.  Mary. 


NUTS  AS  AN  ARTICLE  OF  DIET.  483 

BROMOSE. 

A  combination  of  carefully  blanched,  thoroughly  cooked,  and  sterilized 
nut  meats  with  predigested  cereals,  put  up  in  jars,  and  in  tablets  resem- 
bling caramels.  Delicate  as  a  confection  and  makes  fat  and  blood  with 
extraordinary  rapidity.     Ready  to  eat  at  once.  E.  F.  C. 

FRUIT  COCOA. 

A    delicious  food    beverage.      It  contains  no  chocolate,  cocoa,  tea, 

coffee,  glucose,  sugar,  cream,  or  milk,  but  is  a  pure  product  of   tropical 

fruits  and  nuts.     It  can  be  used  in  any  way  in  which  cocoa  or  chocolate  is 

employed.  C.  A.  L. 

NUT  AMBROSIA. 

A  preparation  similar  to  malted  nuts  in  composition  but  treated  in 

such  a  manner  as  to  produce  a  crisp,  crusty  mass  with  a  rich  nutty  flavor. 

Veritably  the  daintiest  and  most  delicious  food  product  ever  discovered. 

It  melts  in  the  mouth,  comforts  the  stomach,  and  makes  fat  and  blood  with 

great  rapidity.     One-half  pound  to  a  pound  per  day  is  a  not  uncommon 

gain  in  weight  on  using.     Ambrosia  dissolves  in  hot  or  cold  water. 

P.  E.  F. 
PROTOSE. 

Vegetable  meat.  It  resembles  animal  food  in  appearance  and  com- 
position, but  is  far  more  nourishing.  D.  B.  M. 

NUT  SOUP  STOCK. 

This  consists  of  the  concentrated,  soluble  portions  of  choice  nuts  and 

is  a  perfect  substitute  for  meat  stocks.     Can  be  used  by  itself  or  with 

vegetable  products.     It  may  be  used  just  as  extract  of  beef  is.     Dissolve 

in  hot  or  cold  water.     Add  the  water  slowly  at  first,  one  part  stock  to  ten 

of  water.  M.  A.  B. 

SALTED  ALMONDS. 

Warm  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  baking  pan  and  when  it  is  quite  hot 

throw  in  a  pound  of  blanched  and  dried  almonds,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 

put  in  a  hot  oven;    when  they  begin  to  assume  a  fine  delicate  brown  and 

the  salt  adheres  pour  them  on  a  sieve  and  leave  till  cold.     Serve  cold  on 

small  dish.     Walnuts,  pecan  nuts,  peanuts,  and  others  can  be  prepared 

in  the  same  way.  W.  T.  M. 

CHESTNUT  CROQUETTES. 

Shell  four  dozen  chestnuts,  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  enough  water  to 
cover.     Boil  thirty  minutes.     Drain  and  pound  the  nuts  until  very  fine; 


484  NUTS  AS  AN  ARTICLE  OF  DIET. 

add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  pound  until  well  mixed;  add 
another  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  pound  ten  minutes,  then  add  a  little 
salt,  one-half  pint  of  cream,  a  little  at  a  time.  When  all  is  worked  rub  the 
mixture  through  a  sieve.  Beat  three  eggs  until  light  and  stir  into  that 
which  has  been  strained.  Place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  eight  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly.  It  should  by  this  time  be  smooth  and  thick,  if 
the  water  in  the  outer  boiler  has  been  boiling  rapidly.  When  cold,  butter 
the  hands  and  mold  into  balls.  Dip  into  a  beaten  ^gg,  then  into  bread- 
crumbs; fry  one  and  one-half  minutes.     Serve  hot.  M.  W.  T. 

CHESTNUT  SALAD. 

Shell,  blanch  and  boil  until  tender  as  many  chestnuts  as  needed.  Drain 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  Boil  two  eggs  hard.  Arrange  lettuce  in  a  salad 
bowl,  pvt  the  chestnuts  over  and  then  a  dressing  made  of  lemon  juice, 
olive  oil,  salt  and  a  pinch  of  sugar.  Hold  a  small  sieve  over  the  salad, 
grate  over  the  chestnuts  the  yolk  of  the  egg  and  over  all  lay  the  white  of 
the  &gg  cut  in  rings.  Emma  Brooks. 


THEIR  IMPORTANCE. 

IT  MAY  seem  superfluous  to  give  directions  about  the  cooking  of  vege- 
tables, for  to  many  housewives  it  is  the  simplest  matter  in  the  world 
to  wash  and  cook  them  in  scores  of  appetizing  ways.  Yet,  now  that  vege- 
tables are  beginning  to  form  the  main  diet  of  hundreds  of  thinking  men 
and  women,  it  is  not  out  of  place  to  learn  that  more  is  involved  in  their 
cooking  than  sometimes  seems.  Even  the  potato,  with  which  all  are 
familiar,  when  brought  to  the  table  in  a  sticky,  soggy  condition,  will  neither 
gladden  the  eye,  tempt  the  appetite,  nor  furnish  the  nourishment  it  other- 
wise would. 

SUGGESTIONS  ON  THE  COOKING  OF  VEGETABLES. 

The  greatest  care  should  be  taken  in  preparing  and  boiling  vege- 
tables. If  taken  from  the  garden,  they  ought  to  be  gathered  in  the  morn- 
ing while  still  wet  with  the  dew  and  if  from  the  market  they  should  be 
put  in  cold  water  until  crisp,  before  cooking.  Never  boil  them  longer 
than  until  just  done.  Put  them  on  in  an  abundance  of  fresh  water,  slightly 
salted,  that  is  just  beginning  to  boil.  Water  that  has  boiled  for  some  time 
is  flat.  Care  should  be  taken  that  the  water  does  not  cease  to  boil  until  the 
vegetables  are  done;  drain  immediately  after. 

For  onions,  cabbage,  turnips,  etc.,  it  is  best  to  change  the  water,  espe- 
cially when  used  during  the  winter,  since  the  flavor,  then,  is  much  stronger. 
Dried  peas,  beans  and  lentils  should  be  previously  soaked  and  put  on  to 
boil  with  cold  water.  Boil  spinach  and  kale  in  an  abundance  of  water  in 
an  uncovered  pot,  to  retain  the  color. 

Never  thicken  vegetables  of  any  kind  by  adding  flour  mixed  with  cold 
water.  Always  put  butter  in  a  saucepan,  to  this  add  the  flour,  mix  well, 
then  add  to  the  vegetables.     This  improves  not  only  the  looks,  but  also 

485 


486  VEGETABLES. 

the  taste  to  such  an  extent  that  the  Httle  extra  work  will  not  be  taken 
into  consideration  by  those  who  beHeve  in  doing  things  right. 

The  best  water  to  use  for  the  cooking  of  vegetables  is  pure  well  water. 
In  cities  where  spring  water  cannot  be  procured,  lake  water  will  answer, 
but  should  first  be  filtered  to  take  out  the  sediment. 

TIME  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES. 

Although  no  exact  time  can  be  given  for  cooking  the  various  vege- 
tables, as  much  depends  upon  the  age  and  freshness,  yet  the  following 
table  will  help,  to  some  extent,  the  inexperienced  cook.  My  advice  is  to 
test  with  a  fork,  or  taste,  and  thus  decide: 

Potatoes,  boiled,  twenty-five  minutes.  Tomatoes,  fresh,  one-half  hour. 

Potatoes,  baked,  forty-five  minutes.  Tomatoes,  canned,  one-quarter  hour. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  boiled,  forty-five  minutes.  Cabbage,  three-fourths  of  an  hour  to  an 

Sweet  Potatoes,  baked,  sixty  minutes.  hour. 

Squash,  boiled,  twenty-five  minutes.  Cauliflower,  one  hour. 

Squash,  baked,  one  hour.  Dandelions,  two  hours. 

Green  peas,  boiled,  twenty  to  forty  min-  Beet  Greens,  one  hour. 

utes.  Onions,  one  and  one-quarter  hours. 

Shelled  beans,  boiled,  sixty  minutes.  Beets,  two  hours. 

String  beans,  boiled,  one  hour.  Turnips,  white,  forty-five  minutes. 

Green  corn,   boiled   quickly,  twenty  min-  Turnips,  yellow,  one  and  one-half  hours. 

utes.  Parsnips,  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Asparagus,  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes.  Carrots,  one  hour. 
Spinach,  one  hour. 

Nearly  all  these  vegetables  are  eaten  dressed  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter,  but  sometimes  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork  is  boiled  with  them,  and 
seasons  them  nicely. 

HASHED  BROWN  POTATOES. 

Chop  two  boiled  potatoes  fine;  take  a  large  saucepan  (an  omelet  pan 

is  best);    put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;    when  hot  turn  in  potatoes, 

dust  with  salt  and  pepper  and  with  limber  knife  pat  down  into  a  smooth 

sheet;    stand  pan  over  a  moderate  fire  and  cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes; 

now  begin  at  one  end  of  pan  and  roll  over  and  pat  each  roll  down  until 

you  get  to  opposite  side  of  pan  and  potatoes  are  in  the  shape  of  omelet, 

put  your  serving  dish  over  pan  and  turn  up-side  down;    then  they  are 

ready  to  serve.  Della  Yeomans. 

HOLLANDAISE  POTATOES. 

The  potatoes  should  be  pared,  washed  and  cut  into  one  shape  before 
cooking.     This  can  be  done  with  an  apple  corer,  a  potato  scoop  or  they 


VEGETABLES.  487 

can  be  cut  into  cubes.  Boil  twenty  minutes  in  slightly  salted  water,  tak- 
ing care  that  they  do  not  break,  then  drain  and  let  cool  a  little.  Now 
prepare  a  golden  sauce  as  follows:  Boil  one-half  cupful  of  milk  or  water 
with  one-half  dozen  pepper  corns  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  When 
flavored,  strain  it  into  another  saucepan  and  add  one-half  cupful  of  butter 
and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beat  with  a  fork,  over  the  fire,  until  it  thickens 
like  cream.  Then  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  one-half  of  a  lemon  or  a 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Pour  over  the  potatoes  and  garnish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley.  Leone. 

STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Select  potatoes  of  even  size.  Cut  a  thin  slice  from  one  end,  that  they 
may  stand  firm  and  put  in  the  oven  to  bake.  When  well  done  remove 
from  the  oven  and  with  sharp  scissors  cut  a  lid  from  the  upper  end,  and 
scoop  out  the  potato  into  a  hot  bowl  with  a  teaspoon,  keeping  the  skin 
whole.  Beat  the  potato  in  the  bowl  with  a  little  cream,  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter,  a  speck  of  salt  and  pepper.  Then  fill  the  skins  with  the  mixture, 
heaping  it  high  on  top.  Set  the  potatoes  carefully  on  end  and  return  to 
oven  for  ten  minutes  to  heat.  Serve  on  a  platter  with  sprigs  of  parsley 
and  a  few  tiny  specks  of  butter.  Lida  M. 

TO  BOIL  NEW  POTATOES. 

Do  not  pare  them  but  scrape  the  skins  off  with  a  dull  knife,  washing 
them  nicely  after.  Put  into  boiling  water  and  boil  about  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain  them  and  add  a  cupful  of  milk.  Now  melt  a  little  butter,  thicken 
with  flour,  and  pour  over  them,  keeping  on  the  fire  just  long  enough  to 
heat  to  boiling  point.     Serve  hot.  Mrs.  J.  Samuels. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

Take  six  cold  boiled  potatoes,  place  them  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut  and  an  onion  chopped  up  raw. 
Season  with  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  for  ten  minutes,  stir- 
ring until  well  browned.     Chop  a  little  parsley  and  sprinkle  over. 

Mrs.  Katie  Upton. 

POTATO  CAKES. 

Grate  raw  potatoes  and  add  a  little  salt,  a  piece  of  butter  and  an  ^^q,. 
Beat  all  well  together,  dredge  with  flour.  Drop  them  into  good  drippings 
and  fry  a  light  brown.  Cold  mashed  p(^):atoes  can  be  made  in  the  same 
manner  but  are  not  as  nice,  <■  Mrs.  S.  Stevenson, 


488  VEGETABLES. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

Peel,  boil  and  mash  a  quart  of  potatoes,  mixing  with  them  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  two  ounces  of  milk;  set  on  the  fire,  stir  for  two  minutes, 
spread  in  a  dish  to  get  cold  or  leave  over  night,  if  designed  for  breakfast, 
in  which  case  a  little  milk  may  be  added  to  moisten  their  dryness;  mix 
thoroughly,  divide  into  tablespoonful  parts,  shape  them,  roll  in  bread- 
crumbs, dip  into  beaten  eggs  (the  whites),  roll  in  bread-crumbs  again  and 
fry  in  hot  fat.  Take  off  when  done,  drain,  dish  and  serve  immediately. 
When  they  are  shaped  flat,  they  are  ''croquettes  a  la  duchesses  B.  J. 

POTATO  SOUFFLE. 

Select  for  baking,  potatoes  as  near  of  a  size  as  possible;  cut  off  each 
end;  when  baked  scoop  out  the  inside  with  a  spoon,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  skins.  Add  to  the  potato,  butter,  salt,  and  sufficient  hot  milk  to 
make  quite  soft;  beat  till  very  light  and  smooth;  fill  the  skins  with  this 
and  place  on  end  in  a  buttered  pan  on  the  oven  grate  till  browned  on  top. 
The  potatoes  will  puff  up  considerably  if  sufficiently  beaten.  Nice  for 
breakfast  or  tea.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Janeway. 

POTATO  TORTILLA. 

Four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  three  large  potatoes, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  oil.  Cut  cold  potatoes,  previously  cooked, 
into  slices,  and  sprinkle  with  the  parsley.  Put  the  butter  or  oil  into  a 
saute  pan,  and  when  boiling,  fry  the  potatoes  a  light  brown.  Beat  four 
eggs;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  pour  into  the  potatoes;  shake  the 
pan  constantly  to  prevent  sticking.  When  one  side  is  brown,  turn  the 
tortilla  with  a  plate  and  brown  the  other.     Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Lucy  Mead. 
MASHED  POTATOES. 

Cook  the  potatoes  in  salted  water  until  thoroughly  done,  then  drain. 
Set  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  mash  and  beat  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
the  lumps  are  all  gone;  then  add  enough  milk  (a  little  at  a  time)  to  make 
them  nice  and  creamy,  butter  the  size  of  an  ^%^,  more  salt.  Put  in  the 
dish  they  are  to  be  served  in;  make  a  little  hole  in  the  top  which  you  fill 
with  butter  and  set  in  the  oven  until  the  butter  melts;  then  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  D.  Farrand. 
CREAMED  POTATOES. 

Put  a  pint  of  milk  (or  one-half  pint  of  cream)  in  a  frying-pan  and  let 
heat;    add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  butternut  thickened  with  flour, 


VEGETABLES.  .  489 

some  salt  and  pepper;  let  it  boil,  stirring  till  it  thickens;  have  five  good- 
sized  potatoes  (boiled  or  baked  the  day  before),  cut  them  in  small  pieces, 
put  all  together;  cook  ten  minutes,  stirring  to  prevent  burning. 

Mrs.  Mary  A.  Winter. 
SARATOGA  CHIPS. 

Peel  the  potatoes  carefully,  cut  into  very  thin  slices  and  keep  in  cold 

water  over  night;  in  the  morning  drain  off  the  water  and  rub  the  potatoes 

between  napkins  until  thoroughly  dry,  then  throw  a  handful  at  a  time 

into  a  kettle  or  pan  of  very  hot  lard,  stirring  so  that  they  may  not  adhere 

to  the  kettle  or  to  each  other.     As  soon  as  they  become  light  brown  and 

crisp  remove  quickly  with  a  skimmer  and  sprinkle  with  salt  as  they  are 

taken  up.  Mrs.  O.  Atwater. 

POTATO  BALLS. 

Take  four  cold  boiled  potatoes,  rub  through  a  wire  sieve,  put  into  a 
stew-pan  with  one-half  ounce  of  butter  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  milk; 
beat  over  the  fire  till  smooth.  Add  pepper  and  salt,  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
and  chopped  parsley.  When  cold  form  into  balls,  brush  over  with  the 
white  of  ^^^,  roll  in  bread-crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Mrs.  T.  C.  Young. 
SWEET  POTATO  BALLS. 

Boil  the  potatoes  and  mash  them  well.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  milk, 
which  has  been  boiled.  Add  a  little  lemon  peel,  two  lumps  of  sugar  and  a 
little  salt.  Add  the  potatoes  to  the  milk  as  soon  as  it  is  ready — enough  to 
make  a  thick  mush.  When  cooled,  make  up  into  balls,  covering  them  with 
crumbs  of  bread  and  yolks  of  ^^^.  Fry  them  a  nice  brown  and  serve  up 
with  sugar  strewed  over  them.  •  Alice  George. 

E5CALL0PED  POTATOES. 

Pare  six  medium-sized  potatoes,  slice  thin  in  cold  water.  Drain  and 
put  in  a  pudding  pan.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  two-thirds 
of  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^^%,  send  to  the 
oven,  and  when  potatoes  are  well  done  serve. 

Miss  Mary  E.  Wetherholt. 

BAKED  POTATOES. 

(Peeled.) 

Peel  nice,  large  potatoes  carefully  to  retain  their  shape,  wash  them  in 
a  strong  brine,  then  take  an  apple-corer,  with  which  take  out  a  piece  of 
potato  from  end  to  end,  insert  a  piece  of  butter,  season  with  a  trifle  of 
pepper  and  salt,  place  them  together  with  the  pieces  taken  out  into  an 


400  VEGETABLES. 

earthen  or  granite  dish,  in  which  they  can  be  sent  to  the  table  if  desired. 
When  done  the}-  nuist  be  Hght  brown  and  crisp  on  the  outside  and  be 
easily  pierced  witli  a  fork.     Serve  hot. 

Note. — When  perfectly  done  all  baked  potatoes  should  be  pierced 
with  a  fork  two  or  three  times  several  minutes  before  taking  them  out  of 
the  oven  to  favor  the  escape  of  steam,  which  makes  them  drier  and 
improves  the  taste.  J.  D.  E. 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES. 

Peel  the  potatoes,  slice  them  lengthwise  in  slices  one-quarter  inch 

thick,  drop  them  in  cold  water  for  one  hour,  then  take  them  out  and  dry 

them  with  a  cloth,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard.     If  you  wish  them  to  puff  up, 

remove  them  with  a  skimmer  before  quite  done,  drain,  and  again  return 

to  the  hot  lard  to  continue  frying  until  done.     Sprinkle  with  fine  salt  and 

serve  hot.  H.  O.  C. 

FLAKED  POTATOES. 

Take  large,  perfect  potatoes,  boil  in  their  skins  in  salt  water,  drain 
well,  peel  and  rub  them  through  a  coarse  sieve  on  a  hot  dish  beore  the 
fire,  without  touching  them,  to  keep  as  flaky  as  possible,  sprinkle  with  fine 
salt  and  melted  butter,  and  serve  hot.  C.  A.  M. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

(Excellent.) 

Wash  and  boil  in  their  jackets  as  many  potatoes  as  are  required. 
When  done,  drain  and  remove  skins;  wash  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a 
little  cream  and  a  dash  of  cinnamon.  Make  in  cone-shape  and  fry  golden 
brown.     Serve  on  garnished  platter.  Hilda. 

APPLES  AND  POTATOES. 

Use  equal  quantities  of  potatoes  and  apples,  peel,  core  and  quarter  the 
apples,  peel  the  potatoes  and  boil  in  salt  water  until  half  done,  drain  off 
some  of  the  water  and  add  the  apples,  boil  until  both  are  done,  then  drain 
well  before  adding  the  salt,  sugar,  cream  and  fried  onion.  Mash  well. 
They  must  have  the  consistency  of  mashed  potatoes  when  properly  made, 
and  these  should  be  smooth  and  creamy. 

Note. — Beating  the  potatoes  with  a  wire  potato  masher  after  the 
milk  or  cream  is  added  is  a  great  improvement.  E.  J.  F. 

POTATO  PANCAKES. 

Two  quarts  of  raw,  grated  potatoes,  four  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
thick,  sour  cream,  salt,  Ko-nut  or  lard.     Let  the  grated  potatoes  stand  for 


VEGETABLES.  491 

several  minutes.'dip  off  the  water,  which  set  aside  until  the  starch  settles, 
then  pour  off  the  water  and  add  the  starch  to  the  potatoes,  beat  up  the 
eggs  thoroughly,  mix  with  the  cream  and  potatoes,  add  salt  to  taste  and 
fry  in  plenty  of  Ko-nut  or  lard  till  crisp  and  brown.  H.  F.  L. 

SWEET  CORN. 

(Canned.) 

One  can  of  best  corn,  butter  the  size  of  a  bird's  egg,  one  cupful  of  rich 

milk,  salt,  sugar.     Boil  all  togther  for  about  ten   minutes.     Fresh   corn 

may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  after  it  has  been  boiled  and  cut  from 

the  cob.  P.  S.  E. 

GREEN  CORN  ON  COB. 

This  should  be  cooked  on  the  same  day  it  is  gathered;  it  loses  its 
sweetness  in  a  few  hours.  Strip  off  the  husks,  pick  out  all  the  silk,  and 
put  it  in  boiling  water;  if  not  entirely  fresh  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
to  water,  but  no  salt;  boil  twenty  minutes  and  serve  on  a  napkin. 

Mrs.  a.  Armstrong. 
SUCCOTASH. 

Take  a  can  of  corn,  add  it  to  a  pint  of  Lima  beans,  place  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  large  lump  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  one-half 
pint  of  sweet  milk.  Heat  it  thoroughly  for  about  ten  minutes,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  serve.  The  beans  must  have 
been  cooked  previously.  Miss  Minnie  Ray. 

ESCALLOPED  GREEN  CORN  OR  CORN  PUDDING. 

Take  six  full  ears  of  sweet  green  corn,  score  the  kernels  and  cut  from 
the  cob.  Scrape  off  what  remains  on  the  cob  with  a  knife.  Add  one 
quart  of  milk,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch, 
one-fourth  teacupful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  salt  to  taste. 
Bake  in  a  well-greased  earthen  dish,  in  a  hot  oven  two  hours.  Place  it  on 
the  table  browned  and  smoking  hot.  A.  T.  O. 

SWEET  POTATOES. 

(Southern  style.) 

Cut  cold  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and 
place  in  an  earthen  dish.  Spread  each  slice  with  a  layer  of  butter  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar.     Bake  till  lightly  browned.  Mrs.  M.  Adams. 

BOILED  CAULIFLOWER  SERVED  WITH  CREAM. 

Tie  a  fine  cauliflower  up  in  coarse  tarletan,  in  hot  water,  and  a  little 
salt.     When  done,  drain  and  lay  it  in  a  deep  dish,  the  flower  uppermost. 


492  VEGETABLES. 

Heat  a  cupful  of  milk  and  thicken  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  cut 
into  bits,  and  roll  in  flour.  Add  pepper,  salt,  the  beaten  white  of  an 
^^'g,  and  boil  up  one  minute,  stirring  well.  Take  from  the  fire,  squeeze 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  through  a  hair  sieve  into  the  sauce  and  pour  one-half 
into  a  sauce-boat,  the  rest  over  the  cauliflower.      Mrs.  Serah  Paulding. 

CAULIFLOWER  SERVED  WITH  MELTED  BUTTER. 

Take  off  all  the  green  leaves,  cut  the  flower  close  at  the  bottom,  from 
the  stalk;  if  large,  divide  into  four  quarters.  Put  into  cold  water,  let  it 
lie  an  hour,  then  put  into  boiling  milk  and  water,  or  water  only— milk 
makes  it  whiter — skim  while  boiling.  When  the  stalks  are  tender  take  it 
up  at  once  or  it  loses  its  crispness.  Lay  it  on  a  cloth  or  colander  to  drain 
and  serve  with  melted  butter.  Mrs.  F.  Thorne. 

CAULIFLOWER  RELISH. 

Take  a  fine  white  head  of  cauliflower  and  chop  it  fine.  Put  a  piece  of 
butter  as  large  as  a  butternut  into  a  shallow  pan;  add  three  or  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  strong  vinegar.  Stew  the  cauliflower,  covered  over  with  a 
flat  tin,  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  it  is  perfectly  tender.  Serve  on  slices 
of  toasted  bread,  or  on  a  platter  with  bits  of  toast  cut  into  triangles,  and 
well  browned,  then  laid  in  points  around  the  dish.  This  is  a  nice  luncheon 
or  supper  dish.  Mrs.  Lily  Baker. 

BROCCOLI. 

Trim  off  all  leaves  that  are  not  liked,  and  place  the  broccoli  in  a  pan 
of  salted  water  to  kill  any  insects,  that  may  have  taken  shelter  under  the 
stalks.  Wash  them  well  and  put  them  into  an  uncovered  saucepan  of 
boiling  water  with  a  large  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  every  one-half  gallon 
of  water.  Keep  them  boiling  till  done.  Drain  them  directly  or  they  will 
lose  color  and  become  sodden.  Mrs.  Sarah  Winters. 

SEA  KALE. 

Wash  in  several  waters,  pare  the  stalks  and  put  it  into  salted  water; 

drain  well  when  done,  season  it  lightly  and  pour  over  melted  butter 

C.  F.  S. 
BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. 

Nice,  tender  sprouts,  butter,  salt,  meat  broth,  flour,  sugar,  pepper. 
Free  the  sprouts  of  the  outside  leaves,  wash  them  perfectly  clean  and  boil 
in  salt  water  until  perfectly  tender,  drain,  then  cover  with  cold  water  until 
cold,  again  drain  well.     Melt  some  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  add  flour,  mix 


VEGETABLES.  493 

well  and  stir  in  one  cupful  of  meat  broth  or  cream  to  make  a  creamy 
dressing,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  sugar,  add  the  sprouts,  then  set 
back  and  keep  hot  until  wanted.  Hilda  Brice. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE  HEAD. 

(German  style.) 

Separate  the  leaves  of  two  cabbages  carefully,  boil  until  about  one- 
half  done  in  salt  water,  drain  well,  then  take  a  clean,  large  napkin,  lay  it 
into  a  colander,  over  this  place  the  largest  leaves,  one  next  to  the  other, 
overlapping  some  and  meeting  at  the  bottom,  with  the  bottom  of  the  leaf 
down.  During  the  time  the  cabbage  is  boiling,  prepare  the  forcemeat, 
regulate  the  quantity  of  meat  according  to  the  size  of  the  cabbage  you 
wish  to  make.  Chop  the  small  leaves  of  the  cabbage  very  fine,  add  to 
the  chopped  meat  bread-crumbs,  three  eggs,  a  liberal  piece  of  butter  and 
cream;  mix  this  thoroughly  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  allspice; 
spread  a  thick  layer  of  this  over  the  leaves  in  the  colander,  cover  with 
another  layer  of  boiled  cabbage  leaves,  continue  this  until  it  is  all  used 
up.  Now  take  the  two  opposite  corners  of  the  napkin,  also  the  two  others, 
and  secure  firmly  with  a  string,  allowing  plenty  of  room  for  swelling,  but 
at  the  same  time  retaining  the  shape  as  much  as  possible.  Boil  it  in 
plenty  of  water  to  cover  well  for  two  or  three  hours.  Serve  the  cabbage 
whole,  and  garnish  with  parsley,  when  served  hot;  when  served  cold,  slice 
it.     Excellent  either  way.  F.  W. 

CABBAGE  WITH  CREAM  DRESSING. 

Remove  the  outside  leaves  of  the  cabbage  heads  and  quarter  them; 

boil  in  salt  water  until  almost  tender,  then  drain  in  a  colander.     Put  over 

the  stove,  add  one  cupful  of  rich  cream,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  thicken 

with  butter  and  flour  stirred  to  a  cream;    add  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg,  if 

liked.  Julia  M. 

FRIED  CABBAGE. 

Chop  one  firm  head  of  cabbage  till  fine.     Put  it  into  a  kettle  and  add 

one  teacupful  of  water,  salt  and  pepper.     Let  boil  till  tender,  add  butter 

the  size  of  an  ^^^  and  with  the  cover  off  let  the  cabbage  fry  a  light  brown, 

adding  a  little  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  serve. 

Stella. 
FRENCH  CABBAGE. 

Chop  cold  boiled  cabbage  and  drain  until  dry.  Stir  in  melted  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk  and 
put  on  the  stove.     When  heated  thoroughly  add  two  well-beaten  eggs, 


494  VEGETABLES. 

and  then  put  into  a  buttered  frying-pan.  Stir  until  very  hot  and  light 
brown  on  the  under  side.  Turn  out  up-side  down  so  the"  brown  part  will 
be  on  top,  and  serve  hot.  Amanda  Briggs. 

SAUERKRAUT. 

Sauerkraut  makes  a  delightful  change  from  the  regular  way  of  serv- 
ing cabbage.  Our  German  forefathers  thought  there  was  nothing  like  it. 
It  can  be  easiest  made  in  the  fall  when  cabbages  are  plentiful.  It  will 
retain  its  flavor  all  during  the  winter.  It  is  usually  made  in  a  barrel.  Take 
firm  cabbages,  remove  the  outer  leaves  and  slice  into  shreds,  eitlier  by  hand 
or  with  a  machine  made  for  the  purpose.  In  the  bottom  of  the  barrel,  put 
a  layer  of  coarse  salt,  then  a  layer  of  cabbage  and  salt  again  until  the  , 
desired  amount  is  packed.  With  each  layer  of  cabbage,  press  down  with 
a  heavy  pestle  until  the  juice  floats  on  the  surface,  then  a  fresh  layer  can 
be  added.  Some  flavor  sauerkraut  with  a  few  grains  of  coriander,  juniper 
berries,  etc.;  others  do  not.  When  the  sauerkraut  is  made,  place  in  a  dry 
cellar,  cover  with  a  cloth;  on  top  of  the  sauerkraut  a  plank  should  be 
placed  and  on  this  a  heavy  weight.  At  the  end  of  a  few  days  it  will  begin 
to  ferment,  then  draw  off  the  liquor  and  replace  fresh.  Repeat  this  each 
day  until  the  liquor  becomes  clear,  then  remove  cloth,  wash,  cover  again 
and  put  the  weights  back.  Let  stand  a  month  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 
Sauerkraut  can  be  boiled  with  spare-ribs,  ham,  or  sausage,  or  it  can  be 
fried.  •  If  the  sauerkraut  is  too  sour,  pour  clear  water  over  it  and  press  it 
out  again,  then  put  it  in  a  granite  kettle,  with  enough  water  to  partially 
cover  it,  and  cook.  H.  O.  C. 

HOT  SLAW. 

Slice  a  head  of  cabbage  fine,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  water, 
and  scald  well;  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  it;  then  take  two-thirds  of  a 
teacupful  of  vinegar,  one-third  of  a  teacupful  of  water,  one  egg,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  piece  of  butter,  all  well  mixed  together;  pour  it 
over  the  cabbage,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  when  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 

Harriet  A.  Haight. 

RED  CABBAGE  SLAW. 

Shave  the  cabbage,  putting  into  jar  or  bowl.  Sprinkle  salt  through  it 
and  on  top  (about  one  cupful  of  salt  for  three  cabbages).  Let  it  stand 
twelve  hours,  then  drain  off  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Boil  three  quarts  of 
vinegar,  adding  one  ounce  of  whole  mace  and  one  ounce  of  whole  black 
pepper.  Let  boil  fifteen  minutes,  strain  out  the  spice,  pour  hot  vinegar 
over  cabbage  (sufficient  to  cover),  tie  a  cloth  over  the  jar  and  set  away  for 
use.  Mrs.  B.  Marchant, 


VEGETABLES.  495 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Take  eight  large  ripe  tomatoes,  bread-crumbs,  pepper  and  sugar. 
Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes,  mince  pork  very  fine;  put  a  layer  of  tomatoes 
in  a  buttered  pie  dish,  season  with  sugar  and  pepper,  strew  with  bread- 
crumbs, and  scatter  a  little  pork  over  it.  Fill  the  dish  in  this  order,  having 
crumbs  at  the  top,  cover  closely,  and  bake  for  one-half  hour,  or  till  the 
juice  bubbles  up  at  the  side.  Remove  the  cover,  brown,  and  serve.  If 
you  do  not  care  to  use  pork  it  can  be  omitted,  but  a  little  salt  must  be 
used.  Mrs.  Maggie  Leahy. 

5TUFFED  TOMATOES. 

Get  tomatoes  as  large  and  firm  as  possible;  cut  a  round  place  in  top 
of  each,  scrape  out  all  the  soft  parts;  mix  with  stale  bread-crumbs,  onions, 
parsley,  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  chop  ver^^  fine  and  fill  tomatoes;  care- 
fully bake  in  moderately  hot  oven;  put  a  little  butter  in  pan;  see  that  they 
do  not  burn  or  become  dry.  Mrs.  James  Ladd. 

SLICED  TOMATOES. 

Scald  a  few  at  a  time  in  boiling  water,  peel,  slice,  set  in  a  cool  place, 
or  lay  a  piece  of  ice  on  them.  Serve  as  a  relish  for  dinner  with  salt. 
Those  who  desire  may  add  vinegar  and  sugar  or  a  French  dressing  of  oil 
and  vinegar.  Leone  Dickerson. 

DEVILED  TOMATOES. 

Take  two  or  three  large  firm  tomatoes,  not  over  ripe,  cut  them  in 
slices  one-half  inch  thick  and  lay  on  a  sieve.  Make  a  dressing  of  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  vinegar  rubbed  smooth  with  the  yolk 
of  one  hard-boiled  &^%\  add  a  very  little  sugar,  salt,  mustard  and  cayenne 
pepper;  beat  until  smooth  and  heat  to  a  boil.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
pour  upon  a  well-beaten  ^^^,  whipping  to  a  smooth  cream.  Put  the  ves- 
sel containing  this  dressing  into  hot  water  while  the  tomatoes  are  being 
broiled  over  a  clear  fire.  Put  the  tomatoes  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the 
dressing  over  them.  Cooked  in  this  way  they  will  be  found  an  exquisite 
accompaniment  to  roast  chicken.  Mrs.  M.  Werton. 

FRIED  RIPE  TOMATOES. 

Do  not  pare  them,  butcut  them  in  slices-  as  you  would  an  apple.  Dip 
in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  them  in  butter.     They  are  very,  nice. 

Hattie. 
FRIED  GREEN  TOMATOES. 

Cut  six  large  green  tomatoes  in  slices  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness.    Beat   the    yolk    of  one  &^^  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold   water, 


49G  •  VEGETABLES. 

sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  the  tomatoes.  Dip  first  in  the  egg,  then  in 
fine  bread-crumbs.  Fry  in  butter  quite  brown  on  both  sides  and  serve 
with  a  gravy  made  as  follows:  Rub  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  When  well  creamed  brown  in  a  pan,  add  one- 
half  pint  of  boiling  milk,  stir  steadily  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add 
sait-spoonful  of  salt  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes.  Will  W. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Turn  off  nearly  all  of  the  juice  from  a  can  of  tomatoes  (which  juice 
may  be  used  in  soup).  Put  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  dish;  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  a 
little  butter  and  sugar.  Continue  till  dish  is  full,  finishing  with  crumbs. 
Bake  covered  until  hot,  then  brown  quickly.  Mrs.  Susan  Levy. 

MASHED  TURNIPS. 

Pare,  wash  and  cut  turnips  in  slices;  put  them  in  a  pan  with  as  much 
cold  water  as  will  just  cover  them;  let  them  boil  till  tender;  pour  them 
into  a  sieve  or  colander  and  press  out  the  water;  mash  them  with  fresh 
milk  or  sweet  cream  until  entirely  free  from  lumps;  then  put  them  into  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire  and  stir  about  three  minutes.  F. 

TURNIPS  IN  CREAM. 

Cut  the  turnips  into  squares,  boil  in  salt  water  until  tender,  add  one 
cupful  of  rich  milk,  thickened  with  a  little  flour  and  butter;  season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Mrs.  Irene  Jenkins. 

STUFFED  TURNIPS. 

Select  one  dozen  medium-sized  turnips;  peel  and  boil  whole  in  water 

slightly  salted;  when  tender  pour  off  the  water,  slice  a  piece  from  the  end 

of  each  turnip,  scrape  out  the  center,  mash,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 

butter  and  yolk  of  an  &g^.     Fill  the  turnips  with  this  mixture,  put  back 

the  slice,  brush  over  with  butter,  put  in  a  baking  dish  and  put  in  the  hot 

oven  to  brown.  Mrs.  Atwood. 

RUTABAGA. 

Rutabaga  is  one  of  the  oldest  vegetables  we  serve.  They  are  much 
more  solid  than  the  other  turnips,  but  may  be  cooked  and  served  accord- 
ing to  the  recipes  given  for  turnips,  except  to  add  more  cream.        J.  M. 

BOILED  BEETS. 

Wash  the  roots  with  great  care.  Do  not  scrape  or  cut  them,  else  the 
juice  will  escape  and  their  flavor  will  be  injured.     Put  them  into  a  pan  of 


VEGETABLES.  497 

boiling  water  and  keep  them  boiling-  for  one  or  two  hours,  or  until 
tender.  Do  not  prick  them  with  a  fork  to  ascertain  this  but  press  on  the 
thickest  part  with  the  fingers  and  they  will  yield  to  the  pressure.  When 
done  put  them  into  cold  water  and  rub  the  skin  off  with  the  hand,  cutting 
them  into  slices  of  same  size.  They  can  be  sent  to  table  with  no  seasoning, 
or  they  may  be  returned  to  the  fire  and  a  very  thin  sauce  of  flour,  butter 
and  milk  may  be  made  and  poured  over  them.  Mrs.  Annie  G. 

CREAHED  BEETS. 

Cut  off  stalks  and  leaves  and  wash  the  beets  through  three  or  four 
waters.  Salt  the  water  in  your  kettle  well,  and  boil  them  till  done.  Peel 
them  when  cooked  and  lay  them  in  a  drainer  till  all  the  water  is  gone, 
then  cut  them  up  while  hot  into  even  slices.  Cover  them  with  cream  or 
white  sauce  and  serve.  Mrs.  J.  Maguire. 

FRIED  APPLES. 

Pare  four  large  juicy  apples,  and  cut  into  rounds  about  one-fourth  of 

an  inch  thick,  carefully  remove  the  core,  without  breaking  the  apples,  and 

fry  quickly  in  boiling  half  lard  and  half  butter  to  a  light  brown.     Salt 

them  a  little.     Drain  free  from  fat,  and  serve  very  hot  with  steak. 

Mrs.  S.  Silloway. 
STEWED  nusHROons. 

A  nice  dish  for  the  tea  is  made  by  peeling  the  mushrooms,  and  taking 
out  the  inner  part,  then  broiling  them  on  a  gridiron.  When  the  outside 
is  brown,  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  just  covering  them  with  water.  Let 
them  stay  in  this  water  ten  minutes,  and  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  white 
wine,  a  tablespoonful  of  burned  sugar,  and  a  few  drops  of  sharp  vinegar. 
Thicken  with  flour,  milk  and  butter.  Let  them  boil  up  a  little,  then  toast 
bread  pretty  brown,  lay  it  on  a  heated  dish  and  pour  the  mushrooms  over. 

Another  way  to  prepare  them  for  the  table  is  to  broil  them.  Select 
the  largest  and  have  a  clear  fire.  Get  the  gridiron  quite  hot,  and  rub  the 
bars  with  suet,  so  that  the  mushrooms  will  not  stick.  Lay  them  on  the 
gridiron,  with  the  stalks  upward.  Sprinkle  sparingly  with  salt,  but  lav- 
ishly with  pepper.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  little  butter  over  and  under 
them.     When  they  begin  to  steam  they  are  done.     Mrs.  Kate  Wilson. 

BROILED  nUSHROOMS. 

In  order  to  test  mushrooms,  sprinkle  salt  on  the  gills — if  they  turn 
yellow  they  are  poisonous,  if  they  turn  black  they  are  good.  After  testing, 
pare,  and  cut  off  stems,  dip  in  melted  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
broil  on  both  sides  over  a  clear  fire  and  serve  on  toast.  A.  P. 


498  VEGETABLES. 

MUSHROOn  CROQUETTES. 

Press  one  cupful  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  through  a  sieve,  add  two 
cupfuls  of  mushrooms,  which  have  been  cut  in  pieces  and  simmered  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  for  twenty  minutes.  Sprinkle  when  cooking  with 
salt.     Beat  in  two  eggs,  form  into  balls,  and  fry  in  hot  oil. 

Mrs.  C.  I.  Smith. 

E5CALL0PED  MUSHROOnS. 

Put  the  mushrooms  in  a  buttered  baking»dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
crumbs,  seasoning  each  layer  plentifully  with  butter;  add  salt,  pepper  and 
a  gill  of  cream  or  gravy.  Bake  twenty  minutes,  keeping  covered  while  in 
the  oven.  O.  B.  M. 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS. 

Toast  for  each  person  a  large  slice  of  bread  and  spread  over  with  rich 
sweet  cream;  lay  on  each  slice,  head  downward,  a  mushroom,  or  if  small, 
more  than  one;  season  and  fill  each  with  as  much  cream  as  it  will  hold. 
Place  over  each  a  custard  cup,  pressing  well  down  to  the  toast;  set  in  a 
moderate  oven  and  cook  fifteen  minutes  Do  not  remove  the  cups  for 
five  minutes  after  they  come  from  the  oven,  as  thereby  the  flavor  of  the 
mushroom  is  preserved  in  its  entirety.  E.  J. 

EGOS  AND  ASPARAGUS. 

Boil  young  asparagus  and  cut  it  into  pieces  as  nearly  as  possible  like 
peas.  Have  ready  four  eggs  well  beaten,  and  flavor  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Put  the  asparagus  with  them  and  stir  gently;  then  dissolve  two  ounces  of 
butter  in  a  stew-pan,  and  stir  the  mixture  until  it  is  thick.  Serve  on  toast. 
It  will  take  fifteen  to  eighteen  minutes  after  the  water  boils  to  boil  the 
asparagus.     Stew  with  the  eggs  two  or  three  minutes  longer. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Peck. 
ASPARAGUS. 

White  asparagus,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  sugar,  flour,  yolk  of  an 
^^^,  one-half  cupful  of  cream.  Select  tender  asparagus,  tie  in  bunches 
and  boil  in  salt  water  until  tender.  When  done,  arrange  nicely  on  a  hot 
platter,  and  serve  with  the  following  dressing  poured  over  them. 

Dressing. — Slightly  brown  a  liberal  quantity  of  butter,  add  a  little 
flour  and  about  one-fourth  cupful  of  the  water  the  asparagus  was  boiled 
in,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  sugar  to  taste,  boil  up  once,  then  add 
cream.  Or,  if  preferred,  merely  serve  it  with  browned  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.  W.  T.  M. 


VEGETABLES.  499 

BOILED  PARSNIPS. 

Rub  the  parsnips  clean,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  salted  water 
that  is  boiling  and  cook  one  or  more  hours.  When  they  are  done,  take  a 
very  coarse  towel  and  rub  their  skins  off,  put  them  into  a  hot  dish,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  a  butter  sauce  over  them.  If  you  like 
them  mashed,  proceed  in  the  same  way,  but  after  removing  the  skins,  pass 
them  through  a  colander  and  mash  them,  returning  them  to  the  saucepan 
with  a  very  little  milk,  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper.  Stir 
them  over  the  fire  again  till  quite  hot,  turn  into  a  dish,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  S.  Maxwell. 

CREAMED  PARSNIPS. 

Chop  cold  boiled  parsnips.  Put  on  the  stove  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Shake  until  it  boils.  Take  up  the 
parsnips  and  add  to  the  butter  a  little  flour  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  or  milk.  Let  it  boil  up  once  and  pour  over  the  parsnips.  Creamed 
carrots  are  prepared  in  the  same  way.  .  Ione. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS. 

Slice  lengthwise  about  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and  fry  in  beef 
drippings  or  butter;  they  will  fry  sooner  if  previously  boiled  and  should  be 
nicely  browned.  C.  A. 

BOILED  ARTICHOKES. 

The  Jerusalem  artichoke  should  be  washed  well  in  several  waters  and 
picked  over  carefully  to  see  that  no  insects  are  about  them.  Trim  the 
leaves  at  the  bottom.  Cut  off  the  stems  and  put  the  artichokes  into  boil- 
ing water  with  a  heaped  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  piece  of  soda  the  size 
of  a  quarter.  Keep  the  saucepan  uncovered,  and  let  them  boil  quickly 
until  tender.  When  done  you  can  thrust  a  fork  through  them.  Take 
them  out,  let  them  drain,  and  serve  with  white  sauce  poured  over  them, 
made  of  flour,  butter,  new  milk,  two  small  onions  cut  up  thin  in  it,  and 
pepper.  A  tureen  of  melted  butter  should  accompany  them.  It  takes 
twenty-five  minutes  to  cook  them,  and  they  should  be  gathered  two  or 
three  days  before  wanted  for  use.  Fanny  Bennet. 

FRIED  ARTICHOKES. 

Boil  them  from  eight  to  ten  minutes,  lift  out,  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  let 
them  cool.  Dip  into  beaten  eggs,  cover  with  fine  bread-crumbs,  fry  a 
Hght  brown,  drain,  pile  in  hot  dish  and  serve  quickly,  H.  B.  S. 


500  VEGETABLES. 

STRING  BEANS. 

The  wax  bean  is  more  tender  and  richer  in  flavor  than  the  green. 
Cut  off  the  ends  of  the  pods,  string  them  and  cut  or  break  into  one-inch 
pieces.  Wash  before  cutting,  and  boil  them  about  one  and  one-half 
hours.  Then  drain  off  the  water,  add  sweet  milk,  a  little  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  and  let  them  get  thoroughly  hot.  They  are  then  fit  for  the 
table.  Mrs.  A.  R.  G. 

LIMA  BEANS. 

Boil  a  pint  of  Lima  beans  in  salted  water  and  then  press  them  through 

a  colander.     Place  the  pulp  back  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  good  bit  of  butter, 

and  beat  with  a  spoon.     Season  as  usual,  with  the  addition  of  a  little 

sugar.     If  too  thick,  add  milk.     Serve  with  sippets  of  fried  bread  around 

the  dish.  Mrs.  C.  Peckens. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

Boil  one  quart  of  beans  until  the  skins  will  crack  when  blown,  then 
put  them  in  a  deep  pan  to  bake,  after  the  following  manner:  A  layer  of 
beans,  then  a  sprinkle  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  some  fresh  pork,  or  but- 
ter; continue  until  the  pan  is  full.  Mrs.  Julia  Rickord. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 

(Fine.) 

One  quart  of  small  white  beans  and  one  pound  of  pork.  Wash  the 
beans,  put  them  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire  and  cover  with  cold  water.  As 
soon  as  they  come  to  a  boil,  drain.  Now  put  them  in  the  bean  pipkin, 
add  a  small  onion  chopped  fine,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  dry  English  mus- 
tard, a  spoonful  of  salt,  some  black  pepper  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
molasses.  Put  pork  on  top  of  beans,  fill  the  pan  with  boiling  water  and 
put  in  the  oven  covered  tight  and  let  bake  for  several  hours,  occasionally 
adding  hot  water,  so  they  do  not  get  dry.  Mrs,  P.  Illingworth. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS— No.  2. 

Two  pounds  of  beans  (soaked  over  night);  in  the  morning  boil  for 
one-half  hour,  pour  off  water.  Slice  a  small  onion,  put  in  bottom  of  bean 
pot.  Add  beans,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  mustard  and  baking  soda, 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  real  black  molasses  (New  Orleans).  Add  one-half 
pound  of  pork,  and  put  on  top  of  other  ingredients.  Fill  pot  with  hot 
water  and  bake  in  oven  six  hours.  (Be  careful  not  to  let  beans  get  dry, 
keep  adding  water.)  Mrs.  McLeod. 


VEGETABLES.  501 

BOILED  RICE. 

Wash  well  and  boil  a  pint  of  rice  in  two  quarts  of  slightly  salted  water 
for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  in  a  colander,  cover  with  a  thick  cloth 
for  about  ten  minutes  so  that  the  rice  may  absorb  the  moisture.  Pick  up 
with  a  fork  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve  very  hot.  E.  J.  Wallace. 

FRIED  EQQ  PLANT. 

The  ^^%  plants  should  be  cut  into  slices  of  equal  thickness  and  put 
into  water  that  has  been  strongly  salted,  where  they  should  lie  for  an 
hour.     Roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  ^^^  and  fry  in  butter. 

Mrs.  Ellen  Pinkerton. 

EGG  PLANT  CAKES. 

Egg  plant  is  nice  when  made  into  cakes.  Take  a  small  one,  pare  it, 
cut  into  pieces,  and  boil  in  salt  and  water  until  soft.  Pour  off  the  water, 
mash,  add  pepper,  and  mix  with  a  batter  made  of  one  pint  of  milk,  three 
eggs  beaten  thoroughly,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  ^^^,  a  little  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  for  a  thin 
batter.  Fry  it  as  you  would  batter  cakes.  Vegetable  oysters  can  be  pre- 
pared in  the  same  way  and  are  very  nice.  Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANT. 

Cut  the  stern  end  off  the  ^^^  plant,  peel  it,  scrape  out  the  center  and 
put  all  together  in  a  weak  brine  for  forty-five  minutes,  drain  the  pieces 
scraped  out  of  the  center,  chop  fine,  mix  with  a  forcemeat  as  for  stuffed 
tomatoes,  adding  some  cream.  Put  into  a  deep  earthen  dish  with  plenty 
of  butter  and  a  little  water,  cover  well  and  bake  in  the  oven,  basting  fre- 
quently, until  done.  H.  F.  L. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS. 

Pare  three  large  cucumbers,  cut  them  in  slices.  Dry  them  with  a 
clean  towel.  Sprinkle  them  with  flour  and  place  them  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
Ko-nut,  and  turn  often  until  they  are  quite  brown.  Remove  them  from 
the  pan  and  drain  the  fat  from  them,  by  placing  them  on  a  sieve.  Very 
good.  Mrs.  Reta  Holmes. 

PLAIN  BOILED  ONIONS  OR  CREAHED  ONIONS. 

Skin  and  soak  them  in  cold  water  one  hour,  then  put  into  a  saucepan 
and  cover  with  boiling  water,  well  salted;  when  nearly  done  pour  off  the 
water,  add  a  little  milk,  a  little  butter,  and  simmer  till  tender.     Season 


502  VEGETABLES. 

with  pepper  and  salt.  Or  make  a  thickened  dip  of  butter,  flour  and  milk. 
Drain  the  onions  thoroughly,  cook  this  thickening  and  pour  over  the 
onions  in  a  deep  dish.  Mrs.  F.  Farley. 

FRIED  ONIONS. 

Peel  and  slice.  Fry  in  butter  with  one-half  cupful  of  water.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  hot.  Mrs.  N   K.  B. 

CARROTS. 

Wash  the  carrots,  then  scrape  and  cut  into  oblong,  thin  strips,  boil  in 
salt  water  until  tender,  then  drain  off  nearly  all  the  water  and  prepare  as 
above.  Jennie  Adams. 

LENTILS. 

Pick  the  lentils  over  carefully,  wash  thoroughly  and  soak  several 
hours,  then  put  them  on  with  clear  cold  water  and  boil  them  gentlv  until 
done;  heat  a  little  butter  with  a  little  flour  in  it,  add  the  onion,  fry  it  until 
it  turns  yellow,  drain  off  some  of  the  water  the  lentils  were  boiled  in,  add 
them  to  the  dressing  and  simmer  one-half  hour  longer  before  serving. 

G.J. 
GREEN  PEAS. 

When  the  peas  are  fresh,  shell  them  and  wash  them  in  a  colander  in 
cold  water.  Then  put  them  into  cold  water  and  let  simmer  twenty  min- 
utes; season  with  plenty  of  butter  and  salt  and  a  cupful  of  cream.  Canned 
peas  should  merely  be  turned  out  of  the  can,  liquor  poured  off  the  peas, 
rinsed,  and  left  on  to  boil.  When  done  add  milk,  butter  and  salt.  When 
they  have  come  to  a  boil  once  they  are  ready  for  the  table. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Ring. 
PEA  LOAF. 

Soak  four  cupfuls  of  split  peas  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  them 
with  a  small  onion  into  a  farina  kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  cover, 
and  boil  until  soft.  Drain  and  pulp  through  a  colander.  Beat  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  three  eggs.  Boil  in  a  buttered  mold 
or  floured  cloth  one  hour.     Turn  out  and  cut  in  slices  on  the  table. 

Mrs.  B.  Clayton. 
FRIED  PEAS. 

Peas  are  exceedingly  nice  cooked  as  above   with  but   little  water. 

When  done  add  butter  but  no  cream.     Let  fry  about  three  minutes  and 

serve  hot.  Mrs.  J.  R.  M. 

STEWED  PEAS  AND  LETTUCE. 

Take  a  pint  of  shelled  green  peas  and  two  heads  of  lettuce  cut  small. 
Put  in  as  little  water  as  possible  to  use  and  not  burn,  let  boil  until  tender. 


VEGETABLES.  503 

add  a  pinch  of  sugar  and  another  of  salt.  When  done  stir  in  the  well- 
beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  a  dash  of  pepper. 
Do  not  allow  to  boil  after  the  q.%%  is  added.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  N.  K.  Brooks. 
VEGETABLE  OYSTERS. 

Cut  the  vegetables  in  thin  slices,  crosswise,  boil  in  clear  water  until 
soft,  add  a  cupful  of  milk,  salt,  butter  and  flour  stirred  to  a  cream;  boil  all 
together  for  a  few  minutes,  then  serve  on  toast.  P.  E.  F. 

SUMMER  SQUASH. 

The  white  scalloped  ones  are  the  best.  Take  them  before  the  rhine 
or  seeds  become  hard.  Wash  and  cut  in  moderately  small  pieces.  Boil 
in  clear  water  until  tender  enough  to  mash.  Then  place  in  a  colander 
and  drain.  Have  ready  some  bread  cut  in  small  pieces  (not  crumbled). 
Now  put  a  spoonful  of  good  butter  in  a  skillet.  When  hot  put  in  the 
bread  and  stir  until  brown,  then  add  the  squash.  Mash  and  mix  well 
together,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Mrs.  E.  A.  Parcell. 

SQUASH  (HUBBARD). 

Peel  a  squash,  cut  it  in  small  pieces  and  boil  in  water  that  has  been 

salted  till  done.      Drain  thoroughly.     Then   mash,  adding  two   heaping 

tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.     Also  cream  unless 

too  moist.  Mrs.  Clara  Green. 

GREENS. 

Young  beet  tops,  dandelions,  spinach,  young  turnip  tops  and  chicory 
are  very  beneficial  in  the  spring  and  they  can  all  be  cooked  in  the  same 
way.  Examine  them  very  carefully,  throwing  out  all  wilted  or  tough 
ones.  Wash  them  through  several  waters,  so  that  the  sand  or  grit  may 
all  be  eliminated,  and  they  are  perfectly  clean.  All  greens  shrink  in  boil- 
ing and  so  judgment  must  be  used  as  to  the  quantity  to  be  cooked  for  the 
family.  When  they  are  ready  for  the  pot  have  it  one-half  full  of  boiling 
water  that  has  been  salted.  Cook  till  they  are  tender,  drain  them,  and 
press  them  so  that  all  the  water  will  be  out.  Then  season  them  with  a 
little  salt,  plenty  of  pepper  and  butter.  Put  them  in  the  oven  in  the  dish 
for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  them  hot.  String  beans,  peas  and  spinach 
should  be  boiled  uncovered,  so  as  to  retain  their  green  color. 

Mrs.  Amy  Kent. 
PLAINLY  DRESSED  SPINACH. 

Pick  the  leaves  from  the  stalks,  and  wash  the  spinach  in  several  waters 
to  free  it    from  sand  and  grit.     Put  it  into  a  large  saucepan  with  as  much 


504  VEGETABLES. 

water  only  as  will  keep  it  from  burning;  add  a  small  spoonful  of  salt  and 
turn  it  frequently  till  quite  tender.  Drain  it  and  with  a  knife  and  fork 
cut  it  in  small  pieces  and  add  pepper,  salt  and  butter.     Serve  immediately. 

Mary  Jameson. 

DANDELION  AND  5PINACH  GREENS. 

Gather  freshly  grown  dandelions  when  the  dew  is  on  them.  Use  equal 
amounts  of  dandelion  and  spinach;  pick  over  carefully,  throw  into  cold 
water  and  wash  in  several  waters  previously  salted.  Plunge  the  dandelion 
into  boiling  water,  cook  one-half  hour  before  adding  the  spinach;  continue 
the  cooking  until  tender;  then  drain,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well,  turn  on  warm  dish  and  garnish  with 
hard-boiled  ^^^.  The  addition  of  spinach  prevents  the  bitterness  of  the 
dandelion  from  predominating,  and  the  union  will  be  found  very  pala- 
table.    It  cannot  be  too  well  recommended  for  its  healthfulness. 

Mrs.  Maude  Blanchard. 

SPINACH  FRITTERS. 

Boil  spinach  thoroughly,  drain  and  mince  it  well;  add  some  grated 
bread,  one  grate  of  nutmeg  and  a  small  piece  of  sugar.  Add  as  much 
cream  or  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  as  will  make  the  preparation  of  the 
consistence  of  batter;  drop  the  batter  into  a  frying  pan  of  boiling  lard. 
When  the  fritters  rise  take  out,  drain  and  send  to  table.  E.  S. 

CELERY. 

Celery  makes  a  pretty  ornament  to  the  table  and  is  most  healthful  as 

well.     The  smaller  the  stalks  the  more  tender.     Serve  in  celery  boats, 

with  just  enough  of  the  leaves  to  look  pretty.     Put  in  cold  water  one  hour 

before  serving  to  make  it  crisp.     If  necessary  to  keep  for  any  length  of 

time  wet  it  thoroughly,  wrap  in  a  cloth  and  place  in  the  refrigerators  or 

cellar.     In  this  way  it  can  be  kept  a  week  if  perfectly  fresh  when  packed 

away.  E.  T. 

CREAM  CELERY. 

Bring  one  pint  of  milk  to  a  boil,  add  the  celery  chopped  fine,  then 

some  butter  mixed  with  a  little  flour,  cream  and  crackers;  season  to  taste 

and  serve.  F.  P. 

RICE. 

Rice  has  come  to  be  one  of  the  main  vegetable  dishes  of  the  present 
day.  Wash  the  rice  thoroughly,  then  put  on  with  just  enough  cold  water 
to  prevent  it  from  burning  to  the  pot  (a  double  boiler  is  best)  which  must 


I 


VEGETABLES.  505 

have  a  close-fitting  cover  and  be  set  on  a  moderate  fire;  add  salt  to  taste. 
The  rice  is  steamed  rather  than  boiled,  until  it  is  nearly  done,  then  the 
cover  is  removed  and  a  small  lump  of  butter  added.  Served  plain  or  with 
cream,  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Mrs.  Stanley  Arnold. 

FRIED  APPLES. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples,  keeping  them  whole,  cut  into  slices  cross- 
wise, sprinkle  with  cinnamon,  sugar  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Stand  aside 
for  fifteen  minutes,  then  dip  each  slice  into  a  batter  and  slide  quickly  into 
the  hot  Ko-nut,  fry  on  one  side,  turn,  and  fry  on  the  other.  G.  R. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

One  pint  of  mashed  potatoes,  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  celery  salt,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  Ko-nut,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Mix  together  all  the 
ingredients,  except  the  ^^^,  and  beat  until  light,  then  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  and  mix  well.  Rub  through  sieve  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley.  Shape  into  smooth  balls,  then  into  cylinders.  Dip  in 
bread-crumbs,  then  in  beaten  eggs,  then  roll  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in 
deep  hot  Ko-nut.     Drain  on  paper  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish.  E.  T. 

CREAMED  PEAS. 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Ko-nut  in  a  saucepan,  add  ten  drops  of 
onion  juice,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  paprica  and  one  pint  of  hot  milk.  Serve  in 
shredded  wheat  baskets.  R.  R. 

FLAKED  BEAN  CROQUETTES. 

Three  cupfuls  of  flaked  beans,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  paprica  and 
one  ^^^,  beaten.  Mix  all  ingredients,  shape  roll  in  rice  flakes,  beaten  egg 
and  flakes  again;  fry  in  hot  Ko-nut  until  brown.  W.  W. 

BAKED  SALSIFY. 

Scrape  the  roots,  wash  thoroughly,  cut  crosswise  and  boil  till  tender. 
Make  a  cream  sauce  of  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour  rubbed 
together,  one  pint  of  rich  milk,  salt  and  pepper  and  heat  to  boiling  point. 
Butter  a  baking  pan,  put  in  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  a  layer  of  cream 
sauce,  a  layer  of  salsify  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  nearly  filled.  Pour 
cream  sauce  over  the  last  layer,  then  bread-crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  and 
bake  brown,  Mrs.  E.  A.  B. 


506  VEGETABLES. 

CORN  CAKES. 

One  can  of  corn,  three  eggs,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar,  a  dash  of  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  lump  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  ^^^.  Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  melt  the  butter  and  mix 
both  with  the  other  ingredients.  Drop  in  well-buttered  gem  pans  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Miss  Rurk. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  QRATIN. 

Boil  one  whole  cauliflower  in  salted  water  till  tender,  then  drain  and 
cut  rather  coarsely.  Mix  one-half  ounce  of  butter  and  one  ounce  of  flour 
together,  stir  it  into  one  cupful  of  hot  milk  till  it  is  thick  and  smooth,  add 
salt  and  pepper;  stir  in  one  ounce  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  pour 
this  gently  over  the  cauliflower,  sprinkle  cheese  over  the  top  and  brown  in 
very  hot  oven.     Serve  hot.  Mary. 

POTATOES  AND  CORN. 

Chop  fine  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  mix  with  cooked  corn  in  propor- 
tion of  one  cupful  of  potato  to  one-half  cupful  of  corn;  put  three  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  good  dripping  into  a  frying  pan.  When  thoroughly 
heated  serve.  Ione  Whipple. 

VEGETABLES  AU  QRATIN. 

Boil  separately  in  salted  water  a  head  of  cabbage,  cut  into  pieces;  use 
any  cold  vegetables,  green  peas,  asparagus,  and  the  like.  Lay  some  but- 
ter into  a  tin  pan,  then  cabbage,  then  grated  cheese;  again  butter,  peas, 
cheese,  and  again  until  all  is  used,  having  the  last  layer  of  cheese.  Bake 
for  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Emily  Brooks. 

TOMATOES  WITH  SHREDDED  WHEAT  BISCUITS. 

Split  into  halves  shredded  wheat  biscuits  and  place  in  baking  pan. 

Pour  over  sufficient  milk  to  soak  them  and  over  each  one  a  little  melted 

butter.     Peel  and  cut  in  slices  four  or  five  tomatoes;  place  on  the  biscuits, 

dust  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter.     Carefully  remove  to 

hot  dish  and  serve.     This  is  a  very  nutritious  dish.     Bake  in  quick  oven 

fifteen  minutes.  Alma  Locke. 

STUFFED  ONIONS. 

Boil  white  onions  in  slightly  salted  water  for  one  hour,  changing  the 
water  twice.  Lift  them  out  and  scoop  out  a  portion  from  the  center. 
Fill  the  cavity  with  the  dressingof  two  tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  one 
large  teaspoonful  of  grated  cheese,  a  little  cream,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 


VEGETABLES.  507 

of  the  onion  which  has  been  scooped  out.     Wrap  each  onion  in  a  piece  of 

buttered  tissue  paper  and  twist  the  paper  securely  at  the  ends.     Bake  in  a 

buttered  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  nearly  one  hour.     Remove  the  paper, 

put  into  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over 

melted  butter.  Mrs.   J.  H.  T. 

PARSNIP  BALLS. 

Mash  and  season  boiled  parsnips.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  before 
it  cools  add  one  well-beaten  ^^%.  When  cold  make  into  balls  about  one- 
half  the  size  of  an  egg.  Dip  into  beaten  ^^^,  then  into  bread-crumbs. 
Fry  a  pale  brown  in  boiling  lard  or  Ko-nut.  L.  Brooks. 

BAKED  CUCUMBERS  (DELICIOUS). 

Peel  five  good-sized  cucumbers,  cut  lengthwise  and  remove  the  seeds 

and  soft  part.     Rub  one  cupful  of  soft  bread-crumbs  into  butter  the  size 

of  an  egg  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  finely-chopped  onion;   season  with 

salt  and  pepper.     Sprinkle  salt  over  the  cucumbers,  fill  with  the  seasoned 

bread-crumbs  and  bake  until  cucumbers  are  very  soft  and  the  filling  a  nice 

brown.  Adine. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS. 

Peel  six  large  cucumbers  and  cut  into  slices  one-half  inch  thick;  cover 
with  hot  water  and  boil  till  tender,  then  drain.  Put  two  cupfuls  of  cream 
into  a  saucepan,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  one-half  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil  drop  in  the  cucumbers  and  heat  through, 
shaking  the  pan  to  prevent  burning.  Greta  M.  T. 

CUCUMBER  WITH  DRESSING. 

Peel  the  cucumbers  and  let  them  stand  in  ice  water  for  one  hour. 
Then  slice  and  place  in  a  bowl.  Pour  over  a  mixture  of  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  lemon  or  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Nellie  R. 

STEWED  OKRA  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Wash  twelve  pods  of  okra  and  slice  thin.  Peel  four  tomatoes  and 
cut  into  slices;  put  in  a  granite  saucepan,  add  salt  and  set  over  the  fire  to 
simmer  slowly  for  one-half  hour.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  a 
dash  of  cayenne  and  serve.  Mrs.  L.  P.  M. 

BAKED  MACARONI  AND  CHEESE. 

Break  it  into  one-inch  pieces,  put  it  on  the  stove  in  cold  water  to 
which   a  little  salt  has  been  added  and  boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring  lest  it 


508  VEGETABLES. 


^ 


adhere  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Then  take  a  deep  dish,  butter  it  well, 
and  place  a  layer  of  macaroni,  then  a  layer  of  grated  cheese,  adding  salt, 
pepper  and  butter  to  each  layer.  Continue  these  layers  until  the  dish  is 
full,  then  cover  with  sweet  milk.  Beat  two  eggs  in  milk,  and  pour  over 
Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  If  you  shave  the  cheese  very  thin  it  will 
answer  as  well  as  to  grate  it.     Use  old  strong  cheese. 

Mrs.  Annie  R.  Gregory. 

SPAQHETTI. 

Break  a  package  of  spaghetti  into  a  saucepan.  Cover  it  with  boiling 
water  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  ten  minutes;  then  immerse  in 
cold  water;  drain  from  a  colander  and  place  for  a  few  moments  in  an 
oven  with  door  open.  Then  put  a  layer  of  spaghetti  into  a  dish  and  pour 
over  it  a  little  milk,  add  a  dash  of  salt  and  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Over 
this  sprinkle  a  layer  of  grated  cheese  (Parmesan  is  the  best);  add  another 
layer  of  spaghetti  and  then  cheese,  repeating  the  process  until  the  dish  is 
full,  leaving  the  cheese  on  top.  Place  in  an  oven  five  minutes,  then  serve 
with  an  extra  dish  of  grated  cheese.  E.  T. 

VERMICELLI. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk  and  drop  lightly  into  it  six  ounces  of  vermicelli 
which  has  been  blanched  in  boiling  water  to  free  it  from  all  impurities. 
Simmer  gently,  and  stir  frequently  to  keep  it  from  getting  into  lumps. 
When  tender,  sweeten  it  and  send  it  to  table.  It  takes  from  fifteen  to 
twenty-five  minutes  to  boil  it.  Mrs.  G.  Atwood. 

VEGETABLE  CURRY. 

A  mixture  of  vegetables  may  be  used  for  curry.  The  most  suitable 
are  celery,  onions,  cauliflowers,  young  cabbages,  cucumbers,  green  peas, 
French  beans,  spinach  and  sorrel.  Mince  or  slice  the  vegetables.  Dis- 
solve a  slice  of  fresh  butter  in  a  stew-pan;  roll  the  vegetables  in  curry- 
powder  and  toss  them  in  the  butter  till  they  are  one-half  dressed,  Pour 
over  them  as  much  cream  or  gravy  mixed  smoothly  with  curry-powder  or 
paste  as  will  cover  them,  and  stew  till  tender.  Add  a  little  salt  and  serve 
with  rice  boiled  for  curry  on  a  separate  dish.  A  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice  is  an  improvement.  If  liked  a  small  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes  or 
fried  onions  and  an  apple  rubbed  through  a  sieve  may  be  added  to  the 
curry  sauce.     Shrimps  or  prawns  may  also  be  added  if  approved. 

Charlotte  Barber. 


ALADS 

WITHOUT  MEATS. 


A  MONG  the  vegetables  peculiarly  fitted  for  the 
^~^  making  of  fine  salads  are  celery,  tomatoes, 
cucumbers,  onions,  lentils,  cabbage,  green  beans, 
lettuce,  cauliflower,  water  cress  and  radishes.  To 
this  may  be  added  chervil,  which  is  never  absent 
from  a  French  or  English  salad.  It  is  much  like  parsley,  but  far  more 
aromatic,  and  is  used  in  much  the  same  way.  It  can  be  procured  at  most 
of  the  vegetable  markets,  but  in  preparing  a  salad  with  it,  the  leaves 
alone  are  taken;  the   root  being  highly  poisonous. 

In  preparing  vegetables  designed  for  salads  it  is  proper  to  throw 
them  into  cold  water  for  a  short  time,  then  carefully  dry  and  lay  them 
away  until  wanted.     Never  mix  with  the  dressing  until  ready  for  use. 

DRESSING  FOR  COLD  SLAW. 

Mix  together  one  tablespoonful  of  dry  mustard,  three-fourths  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  salt-spoonful  of  salt.  Stir  smooth  and  add  one- 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream.  Let  these  come  to  a  boil  just  once,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Take  it  from  the  stove  and  beat  in  two  eggs,  which  have 
previously  beenw^hipped  well.  Place  the  sauce  back  on  the  stove,  letting 
it  stand  over  a  dish  of  boiling  water.  Keep  stirring  until  thick,  then  add 
one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  vinegar.  This  is  a  good  sauce  for  slaw  or  cold 
meats.  Mrs.  Maude  Blanchard. 

For  Mayonnaise  and  French  Dressings  see  '"Salads  with  Meats." 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  sugar,  oil  and  salt,  a  scant 
tablespoonful  of  mustard,  a  cupful  of  milk  and  one  cupful  of  vinegar;  stir 
oil,  salt,  mustard  and  sugar  in  a  bowl  until  perfectly  smooth;  then  add  eggs 
and  beat  well  after,  add  vinegar  and  finally  the  milk;  place  all  in  a  rice  or 
custard  boiler;  keep  constantly  stirring  for  about  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes, 
until  it  is  as  thick  as  rich  cream.  This  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  two 
weeks.  Mrs.  W.  P.  Saunders. 

509 


510  SALADS  WITHOUT  MEATS. 

ORANGE  SALAD. 

Delicious  for  game  or  roasted  poultry.  Slice  six  tart,  juicy  oranges, 
remove  the  seeds,  arranging  the  slices  on  a  salad  dish  and  dressing  them 
with  salad  oil,  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice,  salt  and  a  dust  of  cayenne. 

Mattie  Soff. 
'  WALDORF  SALAD. 

Pare  and  cut  into  quarter-inch  dice  the  same  amount  of  rich,  tart 
apples  that  you  do  of  celery  cut  in  thin  slices.  Add  to  the  apples  and 
celery  a  generous  handful  of  English  walnuts  or  hickory  nut  meats  and 
over  all  pour  a  rich  mayonnaise  dressing;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
Long  Branch  wafers  and  toasted  cheese.  Mrs.  Minnie  Buchanan. 

AFTER-DINNER  SALAD. 

Prepare  apples  as  above  and  mix  with  hickory-nut  meats.  Lay  on 
top  of  tossed-up  water-cress  and  serve  with  French  dressing. 

Mrs.  a.  C.  Northrup. 

REAL  SPANISH  SALAD  (FINE). 

Take  the  crisp  leaves  of  young  lettuce,  break  into  small  pieces  and 
put  into  a  bowl.  Now  trim  a  dozen  young  onions,  tops  and  all,  and  cut 
up  with  the  lettuce.  Pour  over  fresh  dressing  with  a  generous  amount  of 
oil.     Let  stand  ten  minutes  and  serve.  Senora  Carmona. 

inPERIAL  SALAD. 

Cut  off  some  green  asparagus  tips  one  inch  in  length;    cook  them  in 

salted  water;    drain  and  lay  in  a  bowl,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  oil  and 

vinegar;  cut  some  cooked  truffles  the  same  length  as  the  asparagus,  season 

the  same  and  one-half  hour  later  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain  well,  then 

add  them  to  the  asparagus  and  mingle  with  mayonnaise. 

Delmonico's. 
CABBAGE  SALAD. 

One  or  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of 
vinegar,  one-half  cupful  of  cream,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  chop 
the  cabbage  very  fine  and  season  with  salt;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar 
together,  then  add  the  vinegar  and  mustard,  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water 
(or  use  a  rice  steamer),  and  stir  until  thoroughly  cooked  and  thick;  let 
stand  in  china  or  glass  dish  until  cold  and  just  before  serving  add  the 
cream  and  pour  over  the  cabbage.     Very  delicate  if  well  made. 

Mrs.  B.  Dennig. 


SALADS  WITHOUT  MEATS.  611 

LENTEN  SALAD. 

One  cupful  of  apples,  crisp  and  cold  Johnston,  one  cupful  of  celery, 
crisp  and  white,  one  cupful  of  Malaga  grapes,  one  cupful  of  pecan  meats, 
one-half  cupful  of  slfced  banana;  cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing;  pre- 
pare the  last  thing  before  serving,  as  the  fruit  discolors  by  standing. 

Miss  R.  Soper. 
POTATO  SALAD  WITH  NUTS. 

Partially  cold,  sliced  potatoes,  hickory  nuts,  trifle  of  chopped  onion, 
any  good  salad  dressing,  mayonnaise  if  preferred  rich;  garnish  with 
chopped  parsley,  cold  boiled  beets,  sliced  lemons.  Mix  the  nuts  and 
potatoes,  pour  over  them  the  dressing,  seasoned  with  the  onion  and  gar- 
nished to  suit  taste.  W.  M. 

MACEDOINE  SALAD. 

Take  an  even  quantity  of  cold  cooked  vegetables — peas,  turnips, 
beans,  beets  and  potatoes  cut  fine.  Add  a  little  minced  onion,  cover  with 
salad  dressing,  mix  lightly  and  serve  cold.  Lillie  Tibbitts. 

CHERRY  SALAD. 

Arrange  lettuce  leaves  prettily  on  flat  dish;    seed  the  cherries  and 

place  a    hazel-nut    in   center  to  keep  shape;    put  cherries  through   the 

leaves;  pour  mayonnaise  dressing  to  which  has  been  added  a  tablespoon- 

ful  of  cherry  juice,  instead  of  vinegar;    then  put  a  few  cherries  over  the 

top.  loNE  Anderson. 

ORANGE  SALAD. 

For  poultry  or  game,  orange  salad  will  be  found  particularly  delicious. 
Tart,  juicy  oranges  should  be  sliced  and  the  seeds  removed.  Arrange  in 
a  salad  dish  with  or  without  lettuce  and  dress  with  lemon  juice,  salad  oil, 
a  sprinkling  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  H.  F. 

GRAPE  SALAD. 

A  very  choice  salad  for  a  luncheon  course  is  the  following:  Select  the 
large  white  or  light  green  grapes  with  tender  skin,  remove  them  from  the 
stem,  wash  and  take  out  seeds,  taking  care  to  preserve  the  shape  of  the 
grape.  Fill  the  vacancy  with  any  favorite  nuts — pecans,  hickory  or 
the  like.  Let  cool,  arrange  on  plates  and  spread  over  a  generous  amount 
of  mayonnaise.     Serve  at  once.  A.  C. 

BEET   SALAD. 

Parboil  beet,  remove  the  skin,  cut  it  into  thin  slices,  and  stew  with 
small  onions  in  a  little  gravy  thickened  with  flour  and  cream.     Add  a 


5ia  SALADS  I  /  ITHOUT  ME  A  TS. 

dessert-spoonful  of  vinegar,  seasonings,  and  a  little  sugar.  Spread  the 
sliced  beet  on  the  dish,  placing  the  onions  between  them.  It  is  served 
cold  with  cheese  and  with  vinegar  poured  over.  L.  S. 

CELERY  5ALAD.  * 

Pare  the  stalks  from  three  bunches  of  celery,  clean  them,  wipe  dry 
with  a  napkin,  chop  and  fill  a  salad  bowl,  adding  a  very  little  salt,  pepper 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  good  vinegar.     Uo  not  use  any  oil. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Heath. 

WATER=CRESS  SALAD. 

Use  the  tender  leaves  of  the  cress.  Let  them  stand  in  cold  water  to 
make  them  crisp  and  then  wipe  dry.  Sprinkle  a  teaspoonful  of  parsley 
and  olives  chopped  fine.  Add  a  few  slices  of  sour  apples  and  pour  over 
it  the  French  dressing  which  is  made  of  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-quarter  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  The  two  latter  ingredients  should  be  mixed 
with  the  oil  and  the  vinegar  stirred  in  slowly.  To  garnish  water-cress  a 
hard-boiled  G.gg  chopped  fine  and  scattered  over  it  is  an  improvement. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Town. 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD. 

Cook  a  quart  of  string  beans,  after  having  stringed  and  cut  the  ends 
off,  in  boiling  water,  well  salted.  When  tender,  take  them  out  with  the 
skimmer  and  put  them  into  cold  water.  Drain  them  from  this  water 
thoroughly  so  they  will  be  nearly  dry.  Place  them  in  a  salad  dish,  chop 
parsley,  onion,  and  chervil  over  them,  pour  in  some  French  dressing  and 
it  is  ready  for  the  table.  Phebe  Metcalf. 

BEAN  5ALAD. 

Soak  a  quart  of  beans  three  hours  and  boil  them  till  tender,  changing 
the  water  before  boiling.  When  drained  and  thoroughly  cold,  chop  some 
raw  onion,  olives  and  parsley  and  put  them  all  in  a  salad  bowl.  Use  six 
spoons  of  salad  oil  to  two  of  vinegar.     Mix  well  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Jennie  Safford. 

WALNUT  SALAD. 

Make  a  nest  of  lettuce  leaves  on  a  salad  dish,  arrange  on  it  several 
pieces  of  orange,  first  cut  into  slices  and  then  into  quarters,  and  a  few 
halves  of  English  walnuts.  Place  on  each  a  thin  layer  of  mayonnaise 
dressing  and  serve.  Mrs.  Mary  George. 


SALADS  WITHOUT  MEATS.  513 

WALNUT  SALAD— No.  2. 

Chop  lettuce  and  the  whites  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  separately,  not 
too  fine.  Toss  lightly  together,  sprinkle  the  top  thickly  with  English  wal- 
nuts an  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  chopped  coarsely.  Pour  over  this  any  good 
salad  dressing  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuces.  Yacht-Club  dressing  is  very 
satisfactory.  Mrs.  Nellie  Burwell. 

ORANQE  5ALAD. 

Slice  four  peeled  oranges  lengthwise,  dress  with  three  or  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Arrange 
slices  in  a  mound  upon  a  layer  of  lettuce  leaves.  Dress  one  cupful  of  nut 
meats  with  one  tablespoonful  of  oil,  a  dash  of  salt  and  one-half  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  dispose  upon  the  center  of  the  mound.  Toss 
together  before  serving.  H.  C. 

PLANTATION  SALAD  (FINE). 

Peel  and  cut  very  fine  one  large  cucumber,  one  green  onion,  one 
punch  of  red  radishes  and  shred  one  head  of  lettuce;  mix  all  together  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and 
one  well-beaten  egg.  Brown  a  tablespoonful  of  bacon,  cut  into  dice,  in  a 
pan  over  the  fire,  and  add  one-quarter  of  a  cupful  of  cider  vinegar  with 
one-half  cupful  of  water.     Mix  all  together  and  serve.  D.  C. 

NUT  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 

Cut  two  cupfuls  of  celery  in  fine  shreds  in  water.  Drain  and  dry,  add 
one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  hickory-nut  meats,  broken  fine,  but  not  chopped. 
Serve  with  French  dressing  and  garnish  with  water-cress.  H.  L. 

CABBAGE  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 

Remove  the  center  from  a  small,  firm  white  cabbage.  Cut  very  fine 
with  a  sharp  knife.  Keep  in  ice  water  for  one  hour.  Drain  and  mix 
with  equal  parts  of  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  cream  dressing  and 
refill  the  cabbage.  Arrange  on  a  folded  napkin  and  garnish  with  plumes 
of  celery  and  parsley,  the  plumes  to  be  in  honor  of  the  day.  M.  A. 

ORANQE  AND  LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Select  tart,  juicy  oranges,  peel  and  slice,  removing  the  seeds.  Line 
the  bowl  with  lettuce  leaves,  arrange  the  organges  on  them  (using  six 
oranges),  dress  with  a  French  dressing,  using  lemon  juice  in  place  of 
vinegar.  M.  C. 


514  SALADS  WITHOUT  MEATS. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD. 

Remove  the  leaves  from  one  large  cauliflower  and  boil  for  one-half 
hour  in  water  slightly  salted.  Take  out,  drain,  and  divide  it  into  small 
branches.  Arrange  in  the  center  of  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  strips  of 
pickled  beets.  Pour  cream  dressing  or  a  breakfast-cupful  of  mayonnaise 
dressing  over  and  serve  quickly  with  hot  cheese  wafers.  C.  A. 

SURPRISE  SALAD. 

Peel  medium-sized  tomatoes  and  empty  their  contents;  now  take 
some  cabbage  and  celery  and  hash  up  very  fine;  add  a  few  broken  walnut 
meats  and  mix  it  with  mayonnaise  dressing;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a 
pinch  of  red  pepper.  Fill  the  tomato  with  this  mixture  and  serve  cold. 
Use  one  tomato  for  each  guest.  G.  P. 

ONION  AND  TOMATO  SALAD. 

Take  a  few  firm,  ripe  tomatoes  of  medium  size,  wipe  and  cut  them 
into  one-fourth-inch  slices;  peel  a  Spanish  onion  and  slice  it  very  thin 
Arrange  the  sliced  onion  and  tomatoes  in  layers  in  a  salad-bowl  and  pour 
over  them  a  plain  salad  dressing.  -M.  P, 

DANDELION  SALAD. 

Select  fresh  white  dandelion  leaves  and  wash  thoroughly  in  three 
waters;  drain  and  place  in  a  salad-bowl.  Take  a  pinch  of  salt,  one-half 
pinch  of  pepper  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  adding  one  table- 
spoonful  of  oil.     Mix  thoroughly,  pour  over  the  salad,  and  serve. 

A.  T. 
VEGETABLE  SALAD. 

Take  nice  fresh  lettuce,  separate  the  leaves;  after  washing  thoroughly 
lay  in  cold  water  to  crisp;  when  ready  to  use  wipe  dry  and  spread  out  on 
a  flat  dish.  Take  some  raw  tomatoes,  peel  and  slice  thinly  and  lay  over 
the  lettuce;  then  a  layer  of  cucumbers  and  over  this  another  layer  of 
tomatoes.     Onion  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Dressing. — Take  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  cook,  stirring  all  the  time 
to  make  a  smooth  paste;  let  cool;  then  take  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs 
and  stir  with  the  cooked  one;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  salt 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Stir  in  a  tablespoonful  or  more  of  olive  oil  and  into 
this  stir  the  juice  of  one  juicy  lemon.  Just  before  serving  pour  the  dress- 
ing over  the  salad  and  slice  a  lemon  over  the  whole  and  serve.  No 
vinegar.     If  pepper  is  added,  use  the  red.  Floretta  Allen. 


SALADS  WITHOUT  MEATS.  515 

EGG  5ALAD. 

Boil  six  eggs  until  the  yolks  are  mealy.  Boil  also  one  dozen  medium- 
sized  potatoes,  with  the  jackets  on.  Peel  eggs  and  potatoes  and  cut  in  dice. 
Add  two  sliced  onions.  Put  first  a  layer  of  one,  then  of  the  other,  until  all 
is  used.     Pour  over  it  some  cream  salad  dressing.  Sallie  S.  Owens. 

TOMATO  AND  LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Make  a  salad  of  lettuce  and  slice  three  tomatoes  and  lay  them  on  top. 
Cover  the  whole  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  C.  O.  P. 

WHITE  CABBAGE  SALAD. 

Select  a  hard  white  head;  take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten, 
three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  good  cider  vinegar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
white  sugar,  a  little  mustard  mixed  in  boiling  water,  salt,  a  pinch  of  red 
pepper  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream.  Mix  together  all  but 
eggs  and  let  it  scald  very  hot.  Then  stir  in  the  beaten  eggs  rapidly;  pour 
quickly  over  the  cabbage  and  mix  well.  Mrs.  F.  J.  Baker. 

RED  CAGGAGE  SALAD— No.  2. 

Cut  a  cabbage  fine  and  put  into  a  dish  in  layers,  with  salt  and  pepper 
between.  For  dressing,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
flour,  one  cupful  of  vinegar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  mustard,  one  ^g^\  must  be  stirred  all  together  and  let  come  to  a  boij. 
Pour  over  hot  and  mix  well  with  the  cabbage;  cover  and  it  is  ready. 

H.  F. 
HOT  CABBAGE  SALAD— No.  2. 

Pull  the  cabbage  apart,  scald  it  and  leave  it  in  the  hot  water  for  fif- 
teen minutes,  then  drain  it  thoroughly  dry.  Chop  in  small  pieces  and 
moisten  with  the  following  dressing:  Two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  one  salt-spoonful  of  mustard,  butter  the  size  of  a  large  nut,  one 
teacupful  of  vinegar.  Mix  and  let  almost  boil,  when  it  will  thicken.  Add 
pepper  and  salt.     Mix  cabbage  and  dressing  while  the  latter  is  hot. 

Mrs.  T.  J.  Cassell. 
C0LD=5LAW. 

Pick  a  white,  hard  head  of  cabbage,  cut  it  in  halves  and  lay  it  in  cold 
water,  then  shave  it  very  fine.  Boil  a  pint  of  vinegar,  stir  into  it  the  well- 
beaten  yolk  of  two  eggs  and  then  turn  it  over  the  cabbage,  a  short  time 
before  using.  M.  F.  C. 


616  SALADS  WITHOUT  MEATS. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  COLD-SLAW. 

A  very  simple  and  old-fashioned  way  of  making  cold  slaw  is  to  cut 
the  cabbage  right  across,  as  thin  as  possible.  Let  it  stand  in  cold  water 
five  minutes.  Drain  and  crisp  it  by  dipping  it  into  the  water  three  times, 
then  picking  it  over  and  drying  it  by  laying  it  in  a  thin  towel  in  the  ice- 
box.    Then  pour  over  a  cold-slaw  dressing  to  wet  it  well,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Lucy  Herz. 
COriBINATION  SALAD. 

One  small,  firm  head  of  white  cabbage,  shredded  very  fine;  four 
medium-sized  tart  apples  cut  in  dice-shaped  pieces;  s-ix  cold,  firm  potatoes 
cut  the  same;  one-half  cupful  of  English  walnuts  cut  in  small  pieces;  one 
teaspoonful  of  finely-chopped  white  onion.  If  two  stalks  of  celery  cannot 
be  procured,  sprinkle  freely  with  celery  salt  and  one  pinch  of  cayenne  pep- 
per. Toss  well  together  with  two  silver  or  wooden  forks  (steel  will  cause 
the  apple  to  turn  dark)  and  pour  over  this  a  generous  quantity  of 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Place  the  salad  on  ice  about  one  hour  before  using. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Auditorium  Annex,  Chicago. 

LENTEN  SALAD. 

Two  pints  of  celery  cut  in  one-half  inch  pieces,  splitting  each  piece 
lengthwise;  cut  one  pint  of  tart  apples  in  small  cubes;  sprinkle  a  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper;  dissolve  one  spoonful  of  sugar  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
lemon  juice,  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley;  add  this  to  the  apple 
and  celery;  toss  up  with  mayonnaise.  Add  one  small  tablespoonful  of 
Parmesan  cheese.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  This  is  delicious  when  celery 
is  new.  .  Marshall  Field's  Tea  Room. 

TOMATO  AND  BEET  SALAD. 

Cook  four  large    beets,  when   very  cold    cut   into   one-quarter-inch 

squares;    peel  six  large  tomatoes,  without  scalding;,  cut  also  in  squares. 

Pour  over  the  whole  one-half  pint  of  mayonnaise;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

S.  F. 
POTATO,  ONION  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 

Three  good-sized  potatoes  boiled  and  cut  into  one-half-inch  squares; 
two  heads  of  celery  cut  fine;  one  onion  cut  fine.  Use  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing to  cover.  P.  O. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Four  large  potatoes,  one-half  of  a  small  onion,  a  little  celery  chopped 
fine.     If  the  potatoes  have  been  boiled  in  their  jackets  they  are  better. 


SALADS  WITHOUT  MEATS.  517 

The  dressing  consists  of  one  cupful  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch, one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Ivy  Dellbidge. 

CUCUriBER  SALAD  (FRENCH.) 

Peel  three  medium-sized  cucumbers  and  cut  them  in  halves  length- 
wise, taking  out  the  seeds.  Place  them  in  ice-cold  water  for  one  hour. 
When  ready  to  use,  peel'  three  small  tomatoes  and  chop  coarsely.  Chop 
also  one  pint  of  water-cress  and  mix  with  the  tomatoes.  Add  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  one-half  to  three-fourths  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  slight  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Dry  the  cucumbers  in  a  nap- 
kin, fill  them  with  the  mixture  and  lay  on  lettuce  leaves.  Squeeze  over 
the  filling  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil  and 
serve  at  once.  Mayonnaise  dressing  is  preferred  by  some  in  place  of  the 
lemon  juice  and  olive  oil.  Mrs.  J.  T.  Pickens. 

DOMINION  SALAD. 

In  making  this  salad,  mix  the  ingredients  in  order  given.  One  tea- 
spoonful of  onion  chopped  fine,  five  medium  cold  boiled  potatoes,  three 
hard-boiled  eggs  chopped,  and  the  crisp  tender  leaves  of  two  heads  of 
lettuce,  leaving  out  enough  of  the  inner  leaves  to  line  the  salad  bowl. 
Pour  over  the  following  dressing  and  mix  gently:  Yolks  of  two  eggs, 
three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sour  cream  thickened  with  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  corn-starch  dissolved  in  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  water;  level  table- 
spoonful of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  one-eighth  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  red  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-half  cupful  of 
the  best  vinegar.  Mix  thoroughly  and  cook  in  double  boiler  or  over  the 
teakettle  till  it  thickens.  This  dressing  keeps  well  and  quantity  is  suffi- 
cient for  two  salads  of  the  size  given.  F.  E.  P. 

MOCK  PINEAPPLE  SALAD. 

Peel  four  sound  apples  of  medium  size  and  mild  flavor;  with  an  apple 
corer  remove  the  cores  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices  crosswise.  Peel  two 
fine  oranges  and  remove  the  thick  outside  white  pulp,  slice  them  rather 
thicker  than  the  apple,  and,  like  them,  crosswise,  removing  the  seeds. 
Lay  a  slice  of  orange  upon  a  slice  of  apple.  Save  the  orange  juice  for 
the  syrup.  Place  the  slices  in  a  circle  in  a  glass  dish.  Pour  the  juice  you 
have  collected  over  the  fruit.  Sift  white  sugar  thickly  over  it,  also  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.     To  be  eaten  as  a  dessert.  Lillian. 


518  SALADS  WITHOUT  MEATS. 

RADISH    SALAD. 

Scrape  the  radishes,  cut  them  into  very  thin  slices,  and  put  into  a 
salad  bowl.  Peel  and  slice  a  fresh  cucumber,  and  put  it  in  with  the  rad- 
ishes. Mix  in  equal  quantities  salad  oil  and  vinegar,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  speck  of  sugar  and  pour  the  mixture  over  the  salad. 
Sprinkle  over  chopped  capers  and  serve.  Adine  Smith. 

WATERCRESS  SALAD. 

An  excellent  salad  in  the  spring  of  the  year  is  the  watercress.     Make 

as  simple  as  possible.     Select  the  best  bunches,  remove  the  heavy  stalks, 

clean   and   dry  in  a  napkin   and   place  in   a  salad  bowl.     Dress  with  salt, 

pepper  and  lemon,  or  vinegar,  instead  of  lemon.     A  little  sugar  if  desired. 

Mrs.  T.  M. 
ARTICHOKE  SALAD. 

Select  fresh  young  artichokes;  wash  and  slice  crosswise  in  a  salad 
bowl.  The  thinner  they  are  sliced  the  nicer  they  will  be.  Dress  with 
vinegar,  salt,  pepper  and  oil.     Delicious.  John. 

TOMATO  AND  ONION  SALAD. 

Take  one-half  dozen  not  over-ripe  tomatoes  and  cut  into  thin  slices; 
take  one-half  dozen  small  onions  and  cut  up  as  fine  as  you  can;  sprinkle 
the  onion  over  the  tomato  slices,  add  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar,  and  you 
will  have  a  most  appetizing  relish.  T.  M. 


J 


BOOK     III 


MISCELLANEOUS 


IN  AND  ABOUT  THE  HOME 


tA 


ISCELLANEOUS 


ss?  o3P  o^ 

The  Home. 


THERE   are   many  directions   in  which    economy   can   be   displayed 
about  the  home,  but  one  of  the  surest  is  to  take  such  care  of  every 
article  as  to  insure  the  longest  amount  of  service. 

An  excellent  plan  is  to  keep  a  strict  account  of  all  the  daily  expenses. 
Any  little  ruled  blank-book  will  serve  for  this  purpose,  and  in  keeping  the 
items,  the  prudent  housewife  will  know  just  how  much  her  weekly  outlay 
is,  and  can  keep  her  household  expenses  within  a  required  sum. 

The  Kitchen. 

It  is  not  wise  to  dwell  on  any  definite  plans  for  the  kitchen  although 
a  few  suggestions  will  be  welcomed  by  those  who  are  not  fortunate 
enough  to  enjoy  the  modern  improvements  which  make  the  kitchen  of 
to-day  one  of  the  best  appointed  rooms  in  the  house.  Make  the  kitchen 
as  pleasant  as  possible,  have  plenty  of  fresh  air  and  light,  for  both  are 
indispensable  to  health  and  well-being.  Arrange  things  conveniently, 
have  a  place  for  everything  and  everything  in  its  place.  Let  cooking  be 
a  study,  and  surely  before  long  it  will  reveal  many  pleasing  things. 

Have  a  hard  wood  floor  or  a  painted  pine  one,  or  oil-cloth,  never 
cover  a  kitchen  floor  with  carpet,  as  it  is  in  direct  conflict  with  cleanliness. 
Painted  walls  and  ceiling  that  can  be  washed  two  or  three  times  a  year 
will  help  keep  it  sweet  and  orderly. 

The  cooking  utensils,  subjected  as  they  are  to  continual  wear,  must 
necessarily  become  unusable  after  a  time.  They  may,  however,  always 
be  kept  clean  and  ready  for  use.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  wash  the  pots  and 
kettles  as  soon  as  they  are  emptied,  and  while  they  are  still  warm.  By 
this  means  scrubbing  and  scraping  will  be  avoided,  and  the  work  much 
abridged. 

Sand  or  ashes  should  be  used  liberally  on  the  outside  of  iron  pots.  If 
they,  or  the  spiders,  have  a  coating  (which  is  the  fat  and  contents  that 

520 


MISCELLANEOUS.  521 

have  hardened  on  the  outside,  through  carelessness,  boil  them  in  a  strong 
solution  of  sal-soda  for  an  hour  or  so,  placing  them  in  a  larger  kettle  that 
will  entirely  cover  them.  Wipe  the  stove  with  brown  paper  or  a  news- 
paper after  each  meal,  and  it  will  be  kept  polished  much  easier.  Wash 
the  oven  often  with  strong  soapsuds,  and  leave  the  door  open  while  it  is 
drying.  The  sink  must  receive  a  daily  scrubbing,  especially  in  the  corners 
and  under  the  rim.  The  soot  and  ashes  should  be  taken  out  of  the 
hearthpan  and  under  the  oven  frequently,  else  it  will  not  bake  well.  The 
workings  of  the  stove  or  range  should  be  understood,  to  insure  best 
results. 

Saucepans,  gridirons,  tin  cups,  everything  of  that  character,  can  be 
hung  on  hooks  under  the  pantry  shelves.  An  orderly  arrangement  of  the 
kitchen  utensils  means  expedition  in  doing  the  work.  In  saving  frag- 
ments, place  them  on  a  saucer,  a  plate  or  bowl  to  set  away,  so  as  to  save 
room.  Dry  every  tin  before  putting  away,  so  it  will  not  rust.  Wooden- 
ware  must  not  be  set  near  the  fire,  for  it  warps  and  cracks. 

Clean  the  refrigerator  often,  so  that  no  odors  will  gather.  Keep  its 
waste-pipe  open.  Butter  and  milk  absorb  the  flavors  of  other  articles, 
so  they  should  be  kept  by  themselves.  Never  put  an  onion  in  the  refriger- 
ator. It  will  taint  the  food.  Fish  should  be  laid  in  it  with  the  skin  side 
down,  but  steaks  and  all  meats  must  have  a  plate  under  them,  if  near  the 
ice.     Do  not  cover  any  sauce  or  gravy  while  hot. 

The  range,  gas  and  gasoline  stove  should  have  the  greatest  attention, 
in  order  to  insure  successful  cooking  and  baking.  If  possible  it  should 
never  be  placed  opposite  an  outside  door  or  window,  as  the  direct  draft 
proves  detrimental  to  baking.  In  a  range  always  be  careful  to  remove  all 
ashes  from  under  the  slides  to  heat  the  oven  quickly  and  evenly,  and  see 
that  the  air  passage  is  free  from  soot,  as  inattention  to  this  seriously 
interferes  with  the  heating-  of  the  stove. 


The  Laundry — How  to  Wash. 

Assort  the  clothes  before  soaking  them  and  never  soak  anything  that 
has  color  in  it;  place  the  plain  clothes  and  those  most  soiled  in  the  bottom 
of  the  tub,  the  finer  and  cleaner  ones  on  top.  Soak  the  clothes  the  evening 
before  or  any  time  the  day  previous  to  their  being  washed.  Wring  them 
with  a  wringer,  being  careful  to  prevent  the  buttons  from  being  wrung 
off.  Again  select  the  cleanest  and  finest  clothes,  put  them  through  the 
washing  machine  with  plenty  of  hot  water  and  soap.     All  delicately  tinted 


5^^  MISCELLANEOUS. 

fabrics  should  only  be  washed  on  the  board  (not  in  the  machine),  with  as 
little  rubbing  as  possible,  immediately  rinsed  and  hung  in  a  shady  place 
to  dry. 

Flannels  should  not  be  rubbed  on  the  board  at  all,  unless  absolutely 
necessary,  rinsed  in  lukewarm,  or  cold  water,  if  wool  soap  is  used,  wrung 
as  dry  as  possible,  shaken  well  and  immediately  hung  up  to  dry  where 
they  will  not  freeze,  do  not  sprinkle  and  iron  as  little  as  possible,  stretch- 
ing them  instead,  to  keep  the  texture  from  matting  and  become  close  and 

hard. 

TO  MAKE  STARCH. 

Mix  gloss  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  a  little  kerosene,  then  enough 
boiling  water  until  it  looks  clear  (ksep  stirring  while  adding  the  water); 
boil  five  to  ten  minutes.  If  too  thick  when  done  add  cold  water.  Always 
starch  the  fine,  white  clothes  first,  the  light  calicos,  ginghams,  etc.,  next, 
and  the  dark  ones  last.  H.  S. 

TO  PREVENT  RUST  ON  FLAT-IRONS. 

Bees-wax  and  salt  will  make  them  as  smooth  as  desired.  Tie  a  lump 
of  wax  in  a  rag  and  keep  it  for  that  purpose,  and  when  the  iron  is  hot  rub 
it  first  with  the  wax  and  then  scour  it  with  the  salt;  spread  on  a  board  or 
stove  if  no  board  is  handy.  W.  G. 

TO  REHOVE  FRUIT  STAINS  FROn  LINEN  AND  COTTON. 

Fruit  stains  on  white  goods  can  very  often  be  removed  by  pouring 
boiling  water  directly  from  the  kettle  over  the  spots  or  soak  them  in 
sweet  milk.  This  must,  however,  be  done  before  putting  into  water  or 
before  soap  is  used.  May  Rhodes. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  AND  RUST   FROM  LINEN  AND  COTTON. 

Soak  the  stains  in  a  weak  solution  of  tincture  of  chloride  and  rinse 
immediately  after  with  much  water.  The  tincture  of  salt  is  more  reliable 
in  removing  iron  rust  and  quicker  in  its  action  than  oxalic  acid  or  mix  salt 
with  lemon  juice  and  apply  to  the  spots.  Bell  KaDell. 

TO  CLEAN  SILVER,  GOLD  LACE  AND  GOLD  BRAID. 

Take  a  piece  of  woolen  cloth,  place  the  lace  on  this,  free  it  of  all  dust 
with  a  brush,  and  then  apply  some  alum  (which  has  been  burnt,  powdered 
and  sifted  through  a  fine  sieve)  with  a  soft  brush.  This  will  remove  the 
tarnish  and  restore  it  to  its  former  brightness  if  it  has  not  been  worn 
threadbare. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  523 

TO  WASH  BLANKETS. 

Use  plenty  of  soft  water,  and  soap  that  has  no  resin  in  it.  Resin 
hardens  the  fibres  of  woolen  goods  and  should  never  be  used.  The  water 
in  which  they  are  scalded  should  be  made  quite  blue  with  indigo.       I.  J. 

WASHING  FLUID— HOW  TO  MAKE. 

Four  pounds  of  sal  soda,  two  ounces  of  borax,  one  ounce  of  sal  tartar, 
one-half  pint  of  water  of  ammonia,  two  ounces  of  spirits  of  camphor,  one 
ounce  of  oil  of  turpentine,  six  pints  of  hot  water.  Dissolve  the  salts  in 
the  hot  water  and  add  the  liquids  in  succession,  mix  well  and  bottle. 
Add  one  tablespoonful  of  this  to  each  gallon  of  water  used  for  soaking  the 
clothes  before  washing  and  a  little  may  be  used  in  the  washing  water  if 
necessary.  Mrs.  R. 

SOFT  SOAP— HOW  TO  HAKE. 

Four  to  five  pounds  of  tallow,  a  box  of  condensed  lye,  three  pints  of 
cold  water.  Put  the  tallow  in  an  iron  pot  and  dissolve  by  gentle  heat 
then  remove  from  the  fire  (it  must  be  merely  lukewarm).  Dissolve  the 
lye  in  three  pints  of  cold  water  and  add  to  the  tallow,  stirring  it  until  it 
gets  white  and  thick.  Cover  closely  with  a  heavy  cloth  and  stand  it  away 
until  the  next  day,  then  cut  up  the  soap,  which  has  become  hard,  add  hot 
water  and  keep  stirring  until  all  is  dissolved;  do  not  heat  it  again;  pour 
it  into  a  five-gallon  jar  and  add  enough  water  to  fill  it,  then  set  aside 
for  further  use.  Excellent  for  washing  all  things  that  have  to  be  laun- 
dered, especially  nice  for  machine  use.  Ada.  Foltz. 

Note. — Take  one  quart  of  the  above  soap,  dissolve  it  in  hot  water,  add 
one  box  of  Lewis  lye,  when  this  is  dissolved  add  enough  water  to  make  it 
four  gallons.  This  soap  is  unsurpassed  for  scrubbing  sinks,  tables  and 
floors.  When  wanted,  dilute  some  of  it  in  boiling  water  and  use  in  place 
of  hard  soap,  De  L. 

EXCELLENT  HARD  SOAP. 

One  can  of  Babbitt's  potash,  three  pints  of  cold  water,  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  borax,  five  pounds  of  grease,  one-half  ounce 
of  oil  of  sassafras;  put  grease  over  fire  in  kettle;  cover  with  water;  let 
boil  thoroughly  to  wash  all  salt  out  of  grease;  pour  into  pans;  set  where 
it  will  harden;  next  day  skim  off  the  nice  clean  grease,  weigh  it,  taking 
exactly  five  pounds.  The  day  before  you  wish  to  make  soap  put  borax 
and  potash  into  pitcher,  with  three  pints  of  cold  water.  Melt  the  grease 
to  consistency  of  strained  honey;    put  in  sassafras,  take  from  fire,  pouring 


524  MISCELLANEOUS. 

slowly  the  lye  water;  stir  at  least  ten  minutes,  or  until  it  begins  to  harden; 
then  pour  into  a  box  you  have  previously  lined  with  wet  cotton  cloth. 
Next  day  you  can  cut  into  cakes,  and  set  away  to  dry. 

Mrs.  a.  M.  Seth. 

Economics  for  the  House. 

TO  PRESERVE  ICE  IN  THE  ICE-BOX. 

One  of  the  best  ways,  when  one's  supply  of  ice  begins  to  run  short,  is 
to  wrap  the  ice  in  several  thicknesses  of  newspaper.  A  flannel  sheet  will 
have  the  same  effect.  «       H.  O.  G. 

HOW  TO  REMOVE  GREASE  FROM  GLASS. 

Finger  marks  or  grease  on  looking-glasses,  window-panes,  etc.,  can 
be  removed  if  a  little  ammonia  is  added  to  clear  water.  Never  use  soap. 
A  little  alcohol  and  water  rubbed  on  quickly  and  wiped  dry  will  leave  win- 
dow-panes bright  and  shining.  Mrs.  Miller. 

TO  CLEAN  PAINT. 

Put  one  tablespoonful  of  ammonia  in  one  quart  of  hot  water,  dip  a 
flannel  cloth  into  this  and  wipe  off  the  woodwork.  If  cleaned  in  this  way 
no  scrubbing  will  be  necessary.  C.  H.  D. 

TO  BRIGHTEN  MATTING. 

Take  one  pint  of  salt,  dissolve  in  one-half  pail  of  water,  wash  the  mat- 
ting twice  during  the  summer  with  this  and  dry  quickly  with  a  soft  cloth. 

S.  P.  A. 
TO  BRIGHTEN  OILCLOTH. 

Rub  all  over  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  milk  after  it  has  been  washed  in 
the  usual  way,  avoiding  strong  soap  suds  as  they  remove  the  varnish. 

Aunt  Sarah. 
TO  CLEAN  GREASE  FROM  CARPETS. 

Use  ammonia  almost  pure,  cover  the  spot  with  white  blotting  paper 
and  iron  lightly  or  rub  spot  with  a  white  flannel  dipped  in  turpentine.     C. 

TO  REMOVE  MILDEW  STAINS. 

Soak  in  milk  for  forty-eight  hours,  or,  rub  with  lemon  juice  and  salt. 
The  same  remark  applies  to  these  as  to  peach  stains.  Phoebe  D. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  525 

TO  RESTORE  COLOR  IN  WOOLEN  GOODS. 

Brush  the  article  well  to  free  it  of  all  dust,  then  spread  with  a  lather 
of  castile  soap,  rinse  this  all  off  well,  then  repeat  the  rinsing  with  alum 
water.  G.  T. 

TO  RESTORE  FURNITURE. 

Mix  together  three  parts  of  linseed  oil  and  one  part  of  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine. Apply  with  a  woolen  cloth,  also  rub  dry  with  a  woolen  cloth. 
This  not  only  covers  disfigurations  but  restores  the  wood  to  its  original 
color  and  natural  brightness.  Lizzie  H. 

TO  REMOVE  STAINS  FROM  MARBLE. 

Make  a  paste  of  powdered  soapstone  and  benzine,  spread  it  thickly 
ever  the  marble  and  leave  it  on  over  night,  keeping  it  well  covered  to  pre- 
vent evaporation,  wash  off  with  clear  water,  if  the  stains  are  not  removed 
repeat  the  process.  Whiting  is  sometimes  used  in  place  of  the  soap- 
stone.  Prof.  D. 

TO  RESTORE  GILT  FRAMES. 

Take  a  soft  brush  and  carefully  free  the  frames  of  every  particle  of 
dust,  then  cover  with  the  following  mixture:  The  white  of  one  egg  and 
one-half  ounce  of  chloride  of  potassa.     Apply  with  a  soft  brush. 

The  Scientific  American  says  if  you  desire  to  cleanse  gilt  frames  with- 
out tarnishing  them,  wash  them  in  beer.  G.  T.  H. 

TO  WASH  FEATHER  PILLOWS. 

Choose  a  bright,  windy  day;  fill  the  wash  tub  with  hot  suds  and 
plunge  the  pillows  (with  feathers)  in  them.  Put  them  through  several 
waters,  shaking  them  about  briskly,  then  hang  on  the  line  in  the  open  air. 
When  perfectly  dr^-  shake  well.  They  will  be  light,  fresh  and  sweet. 
After  they  have  been  washed  in  this  way,  they  ought  to  be  hung  out  in 
the  warm,  fresh  air  every  day  for  a  week,  but  they  must  never  be  put 
directly  in  the  hot  sun,  as  the  heat  draws  the  oil  out  of  the  feathers  and 
gives  them  an  unpleasant  odor.  Jacks. 

TO  POLISH  HARDWOOD  FLOORS. 

Take  one  or  two  pounds  of  spermaceti  to  every  gallon  of  turpentine. 
Melt  the  spermaceti,  then  gradually  add  the  turpentine.  Polish  floors 
with  this  about  every  four  weeks,  after  they  are  thoroughly  cleaned. 
This  is  an  excellent  polish  to  remove  all  stickiness  in  corners  and  crevices 
caused  by  the  use  of  wax,  etc.;  best  applied  warm.  Peter  Fox. 


526  MISCELLANEOUS. 

TO  POLISH  GLASS. 

For  glassware,  mirrors,  etc.,  mix  calcine  magnesia  with  enough 
gasoline  to  make  a  liquid  the  consistency  of  cream.  This  will  polish  glass 
to  perfection.  Jay  Bogart. 

POLISH  FOR  SILVER  AND  NICKEL=PLATED  WARE. 

One-half  ounce  of  fine  crocus  martis  two  ounces  of  fossil  silica,  one- 
half  pound  of  prepared  chalk.  The  fossil  silica  must  be  rubbed  to  a  fine 
powder  and  mixed  well  with  chalk.  C.  I. 

POLISH  FOR  BRASS  AND  COPPER. 

One  ounce  of  oxalic  acid,  two  ounces  of  crocus  martis,  four  ounces  of 
whiting,  one  pint  of  water.  Mix  all  together  thoroughly,  bottle  and 
always  shake  well  before  using.  Apply  with  a  cloth,  rub  until  clean,  then 
polish  dry  with  whiting.  R.  N.  F. 

TO  POLISH   TIN. 

All  kitchen  utensils  should  undergo  an  extra  cleaning  once  or  twice  a 
year.  This  is  quickly  and  easily  done  by  plunging  them  into  a  boiler  of 
strong  soda  water  and  letting  them  boil  until  all  spots  and  blemishes  are 
easily  removed;  then  polish  with  one  part  of  oxide  of  tin  and  three  parts 
of  whiting.     Mix  well,  rub  with  the  powder.  A.  U. 

TO  REflOVE  RU5T  FROM  STEEL. 

Cover  the  steel  with  olive  oil;  after  twenty-four  hours  rub  it  with 
powdered  unslacked  lime  until  the  rust  disappears.  P.  Q. 

TO  SCOUR  KNIVES. 

Add  a  little  soda  to  the  scouring  brick,  Sapolio,  or  the  ashes  of  wood 
or  hard  coal,  sifted.  M.  Clark. 

TO  REHOVE  STAINS  ON  CHINA. 

Moisten  a  flannel,  dip  in  whiting  and  rub  well  or  scour  with  Sapolio. 

T.  Kinney. 
TO  STRENGTHEN   GLASSWARE. 

All  glassware  that  one  wishes  to  keep  from  cracking  must  be  put  into 
a  dish  of  slightly  salted  cold  water.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  slowly,  then 
boil  well,  and  again  cool  slowly,  the  slower  the  process,  especially  that  of 
cooling,  the  more  effective  will  be  the  result,  C.  Z. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  527 

TO  TREAT  NEW  IRONWARE. 

To  prepare  new  iron  kettles  for  use  and  prevent  rust,  fill  them  with 
potato  peelings  and  boil  for  an  hour,  then  wash  with  hot  water  and  rub 
with  a  little  lard.  A.  O. 

DISH=CLOTHS  AND  TOWELS. 

Add  a  little  ammonia  to  the  water  in  which  dish-cloths  and  towels 
are  washed.  Wash  out  those  that  need  it  after  each  meal,  or  at  least  once 
a  day,  and  l|ang  up  to  dry.  Jane  P. 

CANNED  GOODS— HOW  TO  TREAT  THEM. 

Contents  of  tin  cans  must  always  be  emptied  as  soon  as  opened. 
Place  in  an  earthen  or  glass  bowl  for  one  or  two  hours  to  draw  back  the 
oxygen  that  heat  has  eliminated.  Bell  KaDell. 

TO  KEEP  GLUE  LIQUID. 

Dissolve  the  glue  in  whisky  instead  of  water.  Pour  it  into  a  bottle 
and  cork  it  tight.     This  will  keep  for  years.  I.  F. 

WOODEN  WATER  PAILS. 

A  preventive  of  the  bad  taste  which  a  wooden  pail  will  impart  to 
water  is  obtained  by  varnishing  the  inside  of  the  pail,  when  new,  with 
three  coats  of  common  copal  varnish.  H.  S. 

FURNITURE  VARNISH. 

Mix  one-half  pint  of  raw  linseed  oil,  one-half  pint  of  strong  vinegar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  4-ffff's  ammonia.  This  last  can  only  be  obtained  at 
the  druggists.  T.  Cregar. 

TO  RUB  UP  WOODWORK. 

The  oak  and  hard  woods  so  much  used  in  furniture  often  take  on  a 
dark,  stained  appearance.  A  fine  cleanser  is  made  by  adding  one-half 
pint  of  boiled  oil  to  one-half  pint  of  turpentine.  This  will  remove  all  dirt, 
but  will  not  polish.  Mrs.  Samantha  Kinsley. 

TO  CLEAN  BLACK  KID  GLOVES. 

A  good  way  to  clean  black  kid  gloves  i^:  .o  take  a  teaspoonful  of  salad 
oil,  drop  a  few  drops  of  ink  into  it,  and  rub  it  over  the  gloves  with  the  tip 
of  a  feather,  then  let  them  dry  in  the  sun.  Tanner. 


528  MISCELLANEOUS. 

CREPE  VEILS  STIFFENED. 

Always  keep  the  veil  folded  and  pressed  under  a  heavy  book,  and 
when  it  looks  gray  take  alcohol  enough  to  wet  it  thoroughly,  the^shake 
it  dry,  fold  it  nicely  and  press.  Black  crepe  can  also  be  perfectly  restored 
by  holding  it  over  the  steam  of  a  boiling  kettle.  H.  R. 

INDELIBLE  INK-HOW  TO  HAKE. 

An  ink  that  will  prove  indelible  for  marking  clothes  is  made  of  four 
drachms  of  nitrate  of  silver,  four  ounces  of  rain  water,  sixty  drops  of 
solution  of  nutgalls,  one-half  drachm  of  gum-arabic.  L.  T. 

INDELIBLE  INK— No.  2. 

One-half  ounce  of  nitrate  of  silver,  three  ounces  of  water,  one-half 

ounce  of  gum-arabic;    dissolve  and  keep  in  a  dark  bottle.     Write  on  the 

clothes  to  be  marked  with  a  goose  quill  or  a  gold  pen.     This  ink  will  ruin 

steel  pens.  H.  I.  E. 

TO  WASH  CORSETS. 

To  keep  a  pair  of  corsets  perfectly  fresh  and  clean  they  should  be 
washed  every  two  or  three  weeks.  The  operation  is  simple  and  will  not 
injure  the  shape  or  cut.  Make  warm  suds  into  which  a  few  drops  of 
ammonia  have  been  put.  Spread  the  corset  on  a  flat  table,  taking  out  the 
laces,  but  not  the  bones  and  steels.  Scrub  it  with  a  clean  brush  and  the 
hot  suds,  then  rinse  quickly  in  clear,  warm  water.  Lay  flat  on  a  board 
in  the  sun  or  near  the  fire  so  that  it  may  dry  quickly.     Do  not  iron.     1.  I. 

TO  CLEAN  FELT  HATS. 

Remove  hatband  and  place  hat  to  be  cleaned  on  a  table.  Moisten  a 
cupful  of  white  corn-meal  and  rub  on  brim  and  crown  of  the  hat  until  dirt 
disappears.  Shake  well  and  dust  over  with  dry  meal.  Then  dry  the  hat 
thoroughly  and  brush  with  a  stiff  brush.    It  is  then  like  a  new  one.     P.  I. 

TO  REMOVE  RUST  FROM  STEEL. 

Rub  sweet  oil  well  on  the  rust  spots  and  in  forty-eight  hours  use 
finely-powdered  unslacked  lime,  and  rub  till  the  rust  disappears.     D.  Q. 

CEHENT  FOR  CRACKS  IN  STOVES. 

A  good  cement  may  be  made  of  wood  ashes  and  salt,  in  eqqal  parts. 
Make  a  paste  with  cold  water  and  fill  the  cracks  when  the  stove  is  cool. 
It  soon  hardens.  C.  H.  D. 


MISCELLANEOUS  529 

TO  KEEP  MOTHS  OUT  OF  CARPETS. 

Wash  the  floor  with  a  strong  brine,  before  laying  the  carpet,  and 
sweep  with  salt  once  a  week.  T.  K. 

TO  PREVENT  ICE  ON  WINDOWS. 

Windows  can  be  kept  free  from  ice  and  be  highly  polished  by  dipping 
a  sponge  in  alcohol,  and  rubbing  the  glass  with  it.  M.  H. 

HOW  TO  DUST. 

In  dusting,  use  a  soft  cloth  rather  than  a  feather  duster.  The  feathers 
scatter  the  dust,  while  the  cloth  can  be  shaken  out,  often,  and  you  can  be 
sure  of  a  clean  surface.  Mrs.  Lizzie  S. 

CRACKS  IN  STOVE  PIPES. 

Cracks  in  stoves  and  stove  pipes  are  readily  closed  by  a  paste  made 
of  ashes  and  salt  with  water.  Iron  turnings  or  fillings,  sal  ammoniac  and 
water  make  a  hard  and  durable  cement.  R.  B. 

TO  CLEAN  MICA. 

Never  attempt  to  clean  the  mica  in  stoves  with  water  and  soap.  It 
will  cause  it  to  scale  at  once.  Dip  a  soft  cloth  in  clear  vinegar  and  rub 
the  mica  over  quickly,  not  forgetting  the  corners.  It  will  stay  clean  for  a 
long  time.  N.  O.  A. 

MUCILAGE  FOR  LABELS. 

Two  ounces  of  dextrine,  one  drachm  of  glycerine,  one  ounce  of  alco- 
hol and  six  ounces  of  water.  T.  H. 

TO  RESTORE  THE  COLOR  OF  BLACK  KID  BOOTS. 

Take  a  small  quantity  of  good  black  ink,  mix  it  with  the  white  of  an 
^^%,  and  apply  it  to  the  boots  with  a  soft  sponge.  V.  M. 

TO  CLEAN  SILVER. 

Take  one  pound  of  common  hard  soap,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  spirits 
of  turpentine  and  one-half  tumblerful  of  water.     Allow  the  soap  to  dis 
solve;  then  boil  ten  minutes,  and  before  it  cools  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
hartshorn.     Make  a  suds  of  this  preparation  and  wash  the  article  to  be 
cleaned  with  it.  L.  E. 


530  MISCELLANEOUS. 

VARNISHING  PLASTER  CASTS. 

The  little  plaster  of  Paris  statuettes  one  sees  in  so  many  homes  can 
be  kept  fresh  and  clean  by  taking  one-half  ounce  each  of  white  soap  and 
wax,  two  pints  of  water.  Boil  them  together  for  about  five  minutes  in  a 
clean  vessel.  This  forms  a  firm  varnish,  which  should  be  applied  to  the 
figures  with  a  soft  brush  when  cold.  It  dries  very  readily  and  may  be 
washed  with  fine  soap.  T.  U. 

TO  JAPAN  OLD  TEA  TRAYS. 

First  clean  them  thoroughly  with  soap  and  water  and  a  little  rotten- 
stone;  then  dry  them  by  wiping  and  exposing  to  the  fire.  Now  get  some 
good  copal  varnish,  mix  it  with  bronze  powder  and  apply  with  a  brush  to 
the  denuded  parts.  After  which  set  the  tray  in  an  oven  at  a  heat  of  from 
212  to  300  degrees  until  the  varnish  is  dry.  Two  coats  will  make  it  equal 
to  new.  Mrs.  Lilly. 

TO  REGULATE  THE  CLOCK. 

When  the  clock  refuses  to  go,  try  the  following,  before  taking  it  to 
the  repair  shop:  Take  off  the  pointers  and  the  face;  take  off  the  pendu- 
lum and  its  wire.  Remove  the  ratchet  from  the  "tick"  wheel,  and  the 
clock  will  run  down  with  great  velocity.  Let  it  go;  the  increasing  speed 
wears  away  the  gum  and  dust  from  the  pinions — the  clock  cleans  itself. 
If  you  have  any  sperm  oil,  put  the  least  bit  on  the  axles.  Put  the 
machine  together,  and  nine  times  in  ten  it  will  run  just  as  well  as  if  it  had 
been  taken  to  the  shop.  In  fact,  this  is  the  way  most  shopmen  clean 
clocks.  If  instead  of  a  pendulum,  the  clock  has  a  watch  escapement,  this 
latter  can  be  taken  out  in  an  instant,  without  taking  the  works  apart,  and 
the  result  is  the  same.  It  takes  about  twenty  minutes  to  so  clean  a  clock, 
and  saves  a  dollar.  Zeb  B. 

AQUARIUn  CEMENT. 

Take  equal  parts  of  very  clean,  sharp  sand,  plaster  of  Paris,  and 
litharge;  mix  well  and  make  into  a  stiff  putty  with  boiled  linseed  oil. 
This  makes  a  splendid  cement.  H.  L. 


The  Dairy. 


As  the  subject  of  cheese  is  discussed  by  itself  we  will  here  only  speak 
briefly  of  butter.  Butter  making  is  a  thing  so  generally  understood 
by  all  who  keep  cows  that  only  a  word  here  is  needed.  The  first  great 
requisite  of  good  butter  is  cleanliness.     One  cannot  be  too  careful  in  see- 


MISCELLANEOUS.  531 

ing  that  the  dairj-.  cellar,  or  the  room  in  which  the  milk  is  set  to  rise,  has 
an  abundance  of  fresh  air  and  is  thorou^hlj-  clean  and  sweet.  Decayed 
vegetables,  or  rank  odors  of  any  and  ever>-  sort  should  be  eliminated; 
the  milk  pans  (or  cans  which  are  now  much  used)  should  be  thoroughly 
scalded  and  dried  in  the  sun  or  in  the  heater  and  then  placed  in  the  open 
air.  The  cream  should  be  skimmed  at  the  proper  time  and  the  churning 
should  be  done  before  the  cream  gets  old.  In  skimming  cream  into  the 
cream  jars  it  should  all  be  stirred  up  each  time  so  that  it  becomes  uni- 
form and  all  sours  alike.  S.  H. 

TO  MAKE  BUTTER. 

In  order  to  churn  quickly  the  cream  should  be  from  50"  to  58'  Fahr. 
In  winter  the  cream  can  be  set  for  an  hour  in  a  warm  room  to  bring  it  to 
the  proper  degree  of  heat  or  warm  water  can  be  added  to  it  after  it  has 
been  placed  in  the  chum.  In  the  summer  time  it  should  be  placed  in  ice- 
warer  or  in  a  cellar. 

Before  putting  cream  in  the  chum  scald  chum  well  with  hoi  water, 
then  with  cold,  but  do  not  wipe.  Put  in  cream  and  chum  evenl}-  and 
quite  rapidly  a:  first  slowing  down  as  the  butter  begins  to  appear.  After 
butter  collects  take  it  up  in  a  wooden  bowl  with  wooden  ladle  both  of 
which  must  be  scalded  and  then  rinsed  in  cold  water.  Do  not  wash  but- 
ter as  that  destroj-s  some  of  its  flavor.  Add  fine  salt  in  proportion  of  two 
even  teaspoonfuls  to  a  pound,  let  get  cold  and  then  work  the  buttermilk 
out.     Pack  in  jars  or  make  in  balls.  \V,  H.  KaDell. 

BRINE  TO  BRESERVE  BLTTER. 

Make  a  brine  of  salt  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  ^'g\  add  a  little 
white  sugar  and  a  speck  of  saltpetre:  boil  the  brine  and  when  cold  srrain. 
Pour  it  over  the  butter  so  as  to  cover.  This  excludes  the  air.  Place  a 
weight  over;  plain  salt  and  water  brine  is  quite  as  good  if  preferred. 

HOMEK£EFER. 

Dyeing  and  Coloring. 

An  article  intended  for  dyeing  must  be  clean,  else  it  will  not  take 
the  dye  satisfactorily.  First  scour  your  goods  thoroughly  with  soap 
and  rinse  the  soap  out  well.  When  ready  to  color  the  goods,  dip  them  in 
cold  water,  so  that  they  will  not  spot.  When  they  are  dyed,  air  them. 
Rinse  well  after  that  and  hang  them  up  to  dr>-.  Silks  and  merinos  must 
not  be  wrung.  Cotton  goods  must  be  bleached  or  faded  before  dyeing,  if 
-  light  color  is  desired. 


532  MISCELLANEOUS. 

There  are  a  set  of  "Family  Dyes"  on  the  market,  which  are  giving 
entire  satisfaction,  and  which  are  simple  to  use,  as  the  directions  accom- 
pany them.  There  is  no  need  to  experiment  as  to  the  color  you  desire,  as 
a  color  card  goes  with  them.  These  dyes  are  cheap,  and  are  the  experi- 
ences of  professional  dyers.     They  can  be  obtained  at  any  drug  store. 

WALNUT  BARK  AS  A  DYE. 

Walnut  bark  will  color  any  shade  from  a  light  tan  to  coal-black. 
Color  the  wool  before  carding,  as  follows:  Peel  the  bark  from  the  body  of 
the  tree  (the  bark  off  the  roots  is  best).  Put  into  a  barrel  a  layer  of  bark 
and  wool  alternately,  till  you  fill  the  barrel,  then  fill  up  the  barrel  with 
rain  water.  Lay  on  the  top  heavy  weights.  Let  it  stand  in  the  sun  or 
some  warm  place  till  you   get  the  shade  required.  A.  H.  C. 

BUTTERNUT  BARK  AS  A  DYE. 

Another  way  to  color  yarn,  cloth  or  carpet  rags  is  to  boil  a  large  iron 
kettle  full  of  butternut  bark  four  hours;  take  out  the  bark,  put  in  a  spoon- 
ful of  copperas.  If  you  wish  a  black  put  in  more  copperas  or  a  little  blue 
vitriol  (too  much  vitriol  rots  the  goods).  Then  while  the  dye  is  boiling, 
put  in  the  goods  and  keep  stirring  and  once  every  few  minutes  lift  the 
goods  with  a  stick  into  the  air,  then  put  them  under.  And  keep  watching 
and  moving  them  until  you  obtain  the  desired  shade.  Do  not  fold  or 
pack  them  too  tight,  or  they  will  spot.  Sarah  A.  Bixby. 

TO  COLOR  SILK  LILAC. 

For  three  pounds  of  silk  take  five  and  one-quarter  pounds  of  archil. 
Mix  well  with  the  liquor,  letting  it  boil  fifteen  minutes.  When  you  dip 
the  silk  do  so  quickly,  then  let  it  cool  and  wash  it  in  soft  water,  and  a  very 
pretty  violet  will  be  the  result.  J.  F.  G. 

TO  COLOR  WOOL  SCARLET. 

One  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  ounce  of  cochineal  well  powdered, 
five  ounces  of  muriate  of  tin.  This  will  do  two  pounds  of  goods.  Boil 
the  dye  and  put  in  the  goods.  Work  briskly  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  boil 
one  and  one-half  hours,  moving  the  goods  about  while  boiling.  Wash  in 
cold  water  and  dry  in  a  shady  place.  M.  H. 

TO  COLOR  WOOL  BLUE. 

Use  three  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar  and  five  ounces  of  alum.  Boil 
two  pounds  of  goods  in  this  one  hour,  then  place  them  in  warm  water 


I 


MISCELLANEOUS.  533 

which  has  extract  of  indigo  in  it  and  boil  till  the  tint  is  right  increasing 
the  amount  of  indigo  if  necessary.  D.  B. 

TO  COLOR  WOOL  PURPLE. 

Every  pound  of  wool  goods  will  require  two  ounces  ot  cudbear. 
Rinse  the  article  to  be  dyed  thoroughly  in  soapsuds,  then  dissolve  cudbear 
in  hot  suds,  not  quite  boiling,  but  near  it  and  soak  the  goods  till  of  the 
right  color.     Rinse  in  alum  water.  T.  C. 

TO  COLOR  SILK  GREEN. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  yellow  oak  and  hickory  bark.  Make  a  strong 
bath  by  boiling.     Add  a  small  quantity  of  the  extract  of  indigo.  M. 

5ALM0N  COLOR. 

Take  to  each  pound  of  goods  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  annotto,  and 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  soap.  Rinse  goods  in  warm  water,  then  boil 
them  in  the  mixture  one-half  hour.  The  depth  of  shade  is  determined  by 
the  amount  of  annotto.  F.  D.  C. 

TO  COLOR  COTTON  SKY  BLUE. 

Four  ounces  of  vitriol  (blue)  to  each  three  pounds  of  goods.  Boil  it  a 
few  moments,  then  dip  the  goods  three  hours.  Pass  them  through  a 
strong  lime  water.  If  they  are  then  put  through  a  solution  of  prussiate  of 
potash  a  beautiful  brown  will  result.  S.  A.  B. 

TO  COLOR  COTTON  YELLOW. 

Take  one-half  pound  of  sugar  of  lead  and  dissolve  it  in  hot  water. 
Dissolve  one-eighth  of  a  pound  of  bichromate  of  potash.  Dip  first  in  the 
lead,  then  in  the  potash  till  it  is  as  bright  a  yellow  as  you  want  it.  This 
amount  is  enough  for  three  pounds  of  goods.  To  make  them  bright 
orange,  dip  according  to  above  dye,  and  then  dip  in  ver^-  strong  boiling 
alum  water.     Wring  out,  and  dip  in  clear,  hot  rain  water.  S.  A.  B. 

TO  COLOR  BROWN. 

Take  one  pound  of  catechu  extract  and  one-half  ounce  of  vitriol;  dis- 
solve in  rain  water;  in  the  catechu  put  water  enough  to  wet  your  goods. 
Color  in  an  iron  kettle.  Then  put  in  your  vitriol.  Wet  goods  in  soap- 
suds before  putting  in  the  dye.     This  is  a  fast  color.  Mrs.  A.  S. 


534  MISCELLANEOUS. 

TO  COLOR  COTTON  BLUE. 

Take  five  ounces  of  copperas  and  put  it  in  Avater  enough  to  just  cover 
the  goods  to  be  dyed.  Let  it  come  to  a  scald  and  immerse  the  fabric  for 
thirty  minutes,  then  take  out  and  air.  Put  six  ounces  of  prussiate  of  pot- 
ash in  clean  water  in  the  kettle.  Let  the  goods  stand  in  this  for  thirty 
minutes  more,  remove  and  add  two  ounces  of  oil  of  vitriol.  Put  the 
goods  back  twenty  minutes  longer,  if  a  dark  blue  is  desired.        Mrs.  H. 

TO  BLEACH  GOODS. 

There  should  be  no  grease  in  articles  that  are  to  be  put  through  the 
dyeing  process.  It  is  necessary,  often,  to  get  rid  of  all  the  color  in  a  piece 
of  goods.  This  can  be  done  by  boiling  in  strong  soapsuds  till  faded  but 
be  particular  to  rinse  out  all  the  soap.  F.  A.  Evans. 

BLACK  FOR  COTTON  AND  WOOLEN  GOODS. 

A  black  that  will  neither  stain  nor  fade  is  made  of  two  ounces  of  extract 
of  logwood,  one-half  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  and  one  ounce  of  blue  vitriol. 
Dissolve  the  vitriol  and  logwood  in  two  separate  waters.  Wash  the 
goods  in  warm  water  and  place  them  in  the  vitriol  water.  Put  the  lead 
into  the  logwood  water,  and  as  soon  as  hot  take  the  goods  from  the  vitriol 
water  and  submerge  in  the  dye,  stirring  them  well  for  one-half  hour. 
Make  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  take  out  the  goods  from  the  dye,  put 
them  into  a  tub  and  pour  thesalt  water  over  them.  Let  stand  till  cold, 
hang  up,  let  dry,  and  rinse  in  clear  warm  water.  W.  L. 

TO  COLOR  WOOL  GOODS  GREEN. 

Wool  goods  will  take  a  handsome  green  by  taking  one-half  pound  of 
fustic  with  one  and  three-quarter  ounces  of  alum.  Steep  until  strength  is 
all  out  and  soak  the  goods  in  this  till  a  good  yellow  is  had.  Then  take 
out  the  chips  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  extract  of  indigo,  till  the  color 
is  bright  enough.  Miss  Johnson. 

TO  COLOR  SILK  CRIMSON. 

Three  ounces  of  alum  are  required  for  each  pound  of  goods.  Heat 
and  dip  at  hand  heat,  for  one  hour.  Take  out  and  drain,  making  a  dye 
of  three  ounces  of  cochineal,  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar, 
two  ounces  of  bruised  nutgalls  in  a  pail  of  water  and  boiling  it  ten  min- 
utes. When  a  little  cool,  dip,  raising  the  heat  to  a  boil.  Dip  one  hour, 
then  wash  and  dry.  C.  D. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  635 

TO  COLOR  WOOL  GOODS  CLARET. 

Take  three  and  one-half  pounds  of  camwood,  one-twentieth  of  a 
pound  of  logwood,  and  one-eighth  of  a  pound  of  copperas,  and  boil  seven 
pounds  of  goods  in  this  dye  for  two  hours.  Mrs.  D. 

TO  COLOR  WOOL  GOODS  BLACK. 

To  five  pounds  of  goods  take  six  ounces  of  blue  vitriol;  boil  the  vitriol 
five  minutes,  then  dip  the  goods  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  airing  it 
now  and  then.  Make  a  dye  with  three  pounds  of  logwood  and  boil  one- 
half  hour.  Dip  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  air  the  goods  and  dip  the  same 
length  of  time  again.     Then  wash  in  strong  suds.  J.  E. 

TO  DYE  FURS. 

It  is  difficult  to  dye  furs.  Take  one-half  gallon  of  lye,  adding  one 
quart  of  soft  water.  Heat  it  in  an  iron  kettle.  Take  one-half  ounce  of 
acetate  of  lead,  one-half  ounce  of  sulphate  of  iron  and  three  ounces  of 
litharge.  Powder  the  ingredients  and  dissolve  one  at  a  time  in  the  lye. 
As  soon  as  the  liquid  is  of  a  blood  heat  put  the  furs  in  for  a  few  moments 
only.  Air  them  and  dip  them  in  strong  vinegar,  then  smooth  them  and 
hang  up  to  dry.  You  can  make  the  dye  stronger  if  the  color  does  not 
take  very  well.  N.  P. 

Household  Hints. 

HOW  TO  ESCAPE  FROM  A  BURNING  HOUSE. 

If  you  are  ever  unfortunate  enough  to  be  in  a  house  on  fire,  apply  a 
wet  cloth  to  the  mouth  and  nostrils;  you  can  get  through  the  dense  smoke 
easily.     If  possible,  cover  the  whole  head  and  face.  Chief. 

HOW  TO  REMOVE  PUTTY  FROfl  OLD  WINDOWS. 

Window  sashes  are  often  cut  and  broken  in  trying  to  remove  old  putty. 
Apply  a  hot  iron  to  the  putty,  which  will  then  yield  to  the  knife  and  leave 
the  sash  clean.  F.  Wolhirt. 

HOW  TO  KEEP  THE  LAflP  CHIMNEYS  CLEAN. 

After  the  lamps  are  filled  and  the  chimneys  washed  and  put  on  the 
shelf,  take  pieces  of  newspaper  and  roll  in  the  form  of  a  cornucopia  and 
slip  over  chimney  and  lamp;  it  will  protect  from  dust  and  flies,  and  when 
the  lamps  are  lighted  one  will  be  rewarded  by  finding  them  as  clear  and 
bright  as  when  first  put  in  order.  Neatness. 


536  MISCELLANEOUS. 

HOW  TO  CLEAN  VINEGAR  CRUETS. 

'  Shake  crushed  eggshells  and  little  water  vigorously  in  a  vinegar  cruet 
and  it  will  remove  that  cloudy  look  which  the  bottle  often  takes  on.     J. 

HOW  TO  CRYSTALLIZE  GRASSES. 

Take  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  rock  alum,  pour  on  three  pints  of 
boiling  water;  when  quite  cool  put  Into  a  wide-mouthed  vessel.  Hang  in 
the  grasses,  a  few  at  a  time.  Do  not  let  them  get  too  heavy,  or  the  stems 
will  not  support  them.  Again  heat  the  alum  and  add  more  grasses.  By 
adding  a  little  coloring  it  will  give  variety.  Lottie  May. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  SWEEPING  CAPS. 

Any  girl  who  values  a  clean  head  with  bright  hair,  will  cover  it  up 
while  sweeping;  coquettish  little  sweeping  caps  may  be  made  by  cutting  a 
piece  of  bright  pink,  blue  or  gray  cambric  in  a  circular  shape,  and  making 
a  shirr  within  two  inches  of  the  edge  (which  should  be  hemmed)  and  run- 
ning in  an  elastic  or  a  piece  of  narrow  tape,  with  which  it  can  be  drawn 

up  to  fit  the  head.  Mrs.  Hoy. 

AVOID  METAL  UTENSILS. 

Always  be  careful  to  use  earthenware  dishes  for  putting  away  gravies, 
soups,  etc.  Persons  have  been  poisoned  by  carelessness  in  using  for  such 
purposes  metal  vessels,  which  contained  verdigris  caused  by  the  action 
upon  the  metal  of  vegetable  acids.  J.  N.  H. 

HOW  TO  GREASE  A  GRIDDLE. 

The  nicest  way  to  grease  a  griddle  is  to  use  a  large  piece  of  beef  suet 

tied  in  a  thin  cloth.  Economy. 

A  DEODORIZER. 

A  piece  of  red  pepper  the  size  of  a  ten-cent  piece  put  with  meat  or 
vegetables  when  first  beginning  to  cook,  will  kill  the  unpleasant  odor  aris- 
ing. This  is  particularly  desirable  with  cabbage,  green  or  white  beans, 
onions,  chickens  and  mutton.  Chilly. 

PAPERING  WALLS. 

Paper  may  be  made  to  adhere  to  whitewashed  walls  by  washing  them 
with  vinegar.     When  dry,  the  paper  will  stick.  Mechanic. 

THE  VARIED  USES  OF  LEMON. 

Every  toilet  table  should  be  liberally  supplied  with  lemons.  Their 
uses  are  so  varied  and  so  valuable  that  no  one  can  overlook  them.     Among 


MISCELLANEOUS.  537 

them  is  the  fact  that  a  teaspoonfiil  of  lemon  juice  in  a  cupful  of  black 
coffee  will  drive  away  the  headache.  But  if,  on  rising,  the  juice  of  one- 
half  of  a  lemon  be  squeezed  into  a  cupful  of  very  hot  water  and  drank 
with  no  sugar  there  will  be  no  headache  to  drive  away.  A  slice  of  lemon 
rubbed  on  the  temples  and  back  of  the  neck  will  also  cure  the  headache. 
A  solution  of  lemon  juice  should  always  be  at  hand.  A  little  rubbed  on 
the  skin  at  night  will  whiten  and  soften  its  texture.  A  paste  made  of  mag- 
nesia and  lemon  juice  will  bleach  the  face  and  hands  when  applied  to 
them.  A  fine  manicure  acid  is  made  from  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  in 
a  cupful  of  warm  soft  water.  It  will  whiten  discolored  and  stained  finger 
nails.  Lemon  juice  in  water  will  loosen  the  tartar  that  accumulates  on 
the  teeth.  It  makes  the  breath  sweet.  A  slice  of  lemon  rubbed  over  tan 
shoes  which  are  then  wiped  off  with  a  soft  cloth  will  remove  black  stains 
from  their  surface.  Bessie  Hill  Porter. 

FOR  THE  TOILET  TABLE. 

A  nice  hair  pin  receiver  may  be  made  from  a  round  collar  or  cuff  box. 
The  cover  is  not  used.  Cover  the  bottom  and  sides  neatly  with  some 
merino  or  anything  convenient,  the  color  of  the  worsted  to  be  used,  scar- 
let being  the  most  serviceable.  Crochet  in  split  zephyr,  a  strip  to  cover 
the  sides  and  sew  it  on.  Fill  the  box  with  black  curled  hair,  such  as 
upholsterers  use.  Crochet  a  circular  piece  for  the  top  In  the  open-stitch, 
finished  with  shells,  tacking  it  on  the  covered  edge  of  the  box  just  inside 
the  shells.  It  is  not  a  thing  of  beauty  but  is  so  convenient  and  easily 
made  that  it  becomes  quite  necessary.  Mrs.  Olive  Green. 

THE  ORCHID  FAD. 

If  there  is  anything  new  in  toilet  preparations  the  distinction  belongs 
to  the  orchid.  It  may  be  a  surprise  to  many  to  be  told  that  that  weird 
flower  has  a  scent  but  there  is  no  doubt  about  the  article  of  commerce. 
Dealers  charge  $2  and  $3  a  bottle  for  four  ounces  of  orchid  extracts. 
The  odor  is  delicate,  pleasing  and  lasting.  There  is  orchid  powder  and 
cream  for  the  face,  orchid  paste  for  the  hands  and  orchid  vinegar  for  the 
bath.     The  powders  are  made  in  pink,  cream,  mauve  and  aster  tints. 


Sick  and  Convalescent 

NURSING  the  sick  is  a  duty  that  requires  intelligence  and  patience. 
Few  sick  persons  retain  the  cheerfulness  that  characterized  them 
while  well,  and  in  dealing  with  their  little  whims,  the  tenderest  forbear- 
ance should  be  exercised.  Affection  softens  the  touch  and  makes  unpala- 
table potions  endurable.  In  a  sick  room  a  clean  and  wholesome  dress  is 
ever  called  into  use.  Perfect  cleanliness  of  hands  and  nails  is  imperative. 
A  cheerful  spirit  is  the  best  medicine  of  all. 

Never  ask  a  patient  what  he  would  like  to  eat,  but  surprise  him  or  her 
with  something  delicately  prepared,  for  one  who  is  really  sick  never  has 
an  appetite  and  has  no  choice.  Permit  little  or  no  company  in  the  sick 
room.  Caution  is  to  be  observed  regarding  remarks  about  the  sick  in 
their  "presence.  Have  the  room  well  ventilated  from  the  top,  but  avoid 
draughts  or  a  cold  room.  These  few  hints  are  not  given  for  professional 
nurses,  but  to  aid  a  family  to  take  charge  of  their  own  sick,  sensibly  and 
conscientiously.  Prof.  R. 

PREPARATION  OF  FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT. 

It  is  extremely  difficult  to  know  exactly  what  diet  to  give  to  sick  per- 
sons; very  often  a  slight  error  in  diet  will  bring  on  a  fatal  result. 

When  any  article  of  food  causes  increased  action  of  the  heart,  quick- 
ness of  the  pulse,  headache,  or  pains  in  the  stomach  or  bowels,  it  is  then 
an  indication  that  such  food  is  injurious.  The  patient  should  not  be  urged 
to  eat;  he  is  better  able  to  tell  what  he  wishes  than  any  one  else.  If  he 
craves  for  any  particular  thing,  as  a  general  thing  it  will  do  him  good. 

When  the  patient  is  recovering  from  disease,  but  is  still  weak,  though 
gradually  regaining  strength,  strict  attention  should  be  given  to  the  diet. 
In  regard  to  the  kinds  of  food  which  may  be  allowed,  it  should  be  remem- 
bered that  first  of  all,  it  must  be  light  and  nutritious.  Milk  is  probably  as 
easy  of  digestion  as  any  other  substance;  it  may  be  given  at  all  times 
during  the  sickness  and  convalescence  without  injury;  it  should,  however, 
not  be  used  except  when  drawn  immediately  from  the  cow.  After  the 
cream  has  formed,  it  is  indigestible.  Eggs  broken  in  hot  water  and 
slightly  cooked  may  also  be  allowed.  Boiled  rice  is  easy  of  digestion,  and 
beef  tea,  mutton  broth  and  chicken  are  useful  in  convalescence.     Fruits 

538 


SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT.  539 

are  sometimes  very  beneficial,  and  at  other  times  very  hurtful.  In  fever, 
the  juice  of  ripe  oranges  will  be  extremely  grateful;  the  pulpy  part  should 
be  rejected.  Grapes  may  also  be  allowed,  being  careful  not  to  swallow 
the  seeds  or  skin.  Lemon  juice,  lemonade,  strawberries  which  have  their 
juice  bruised  out  and  strained,  may  also  be  allowed.  Hot  water  poured 
upon  bruised  tamarinds,  peaches,  etc.,  and  allowed  to  stand  until  cold,  will 
be  beneficial.  Toast  water  may  be  used  as  a  drink.  Cold  water  may  be 
taken  at  all  times  with  benefit,  if  it  causes  no  distressing  symptoms.  Rice 
water,  barley  water  and  apple  water  are  all  good  drinks.  Boiled  fish  is 
generally  easy  of  digestion,  as  well  as  oyster  broth.  As  a  general  rule, 
all  shell  fish  should  be  forbidden.  Vegetables,  such  as  boiled  potatoes, 
boiled  beets,  and  boiled  onions,  may  be  eaten  without  harm;  they  should, 
however,  be  boiled  in  two  waters  until  quite  soft.  Prof.  R. 

TO  riAKE  GRUEL. 

The  following  is  an  excellent  recipe:  Pour  one  quart  of  hot  water  into 
a  clean  earthen  or  tin  vessel  over  a  brisk  fire;  when  it  boils,  add  two  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn  or  oatmeal;  mix  it  smooth  in  just  water  enough  to 
thicken  it;  put  a  small  lump  of  butter  into  the  water  and  when  melted, 
add  the  meal  and  stir  for  about  one-half  hour;  then  add  a  teacupful  of 
sweet  milk,  and  when  it  boils  again  throw  in  the  upper  crust  of  hard- 
baked  bread  cut  into  small  pieces;  let  it  boil  some  time  and  add  a  little 
black  pepper,  a  little  salt,  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  a  little  more  butter 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  French  brandy.  The  butter,  spices  and  brandy 
should  be  omitted  when  the  case  is  a  serious  one.  Nurse. 

BEEF  TEA. 

Take  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  cut  it  fine,  put  it  in  a  bottle  corked 
tightly,  and  put  the  bottle  into  a  kettle  of  warm  water;  the  water  should 
be  allowed  to  boil  for  a  considerable  time;  the  bottle  should  then  be 
removed  and  the  contents  poured  out.  The  tea  maybe  salted  a  little  and 
a  teaspoonful  given  each  time.  Another  way  of  preparing  it  is  as  follows: 
Take  a  thick  steak,  broil  slightly  on  a  gridiron  until  the  juices  have 
started,  and  then  squeeze  thoroughly  with  a  lemon  squeezer.  The  juice 
thus  extracted  will  be  highly  nutritious,  M.  S. 

TOAST  WATER. 

Toast  slightly  a  piece  of  bread,  and  add  to  it  boiling  water;  if  pre- 
ferred, sweeten.    It  maybe  flavored  with  lemon  or  orange  peel.     R.  DeL. 


540  SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT. 

FLAXSEED  TEA. 

Take  one  ounce  of  flaxseed  and  a  little  pounded  licorice  root  and  pour 
on  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  place  the  vessel  near  a  fire  for  four  hours; 
strain  through  a  linen  or  cotton  cloth.  P.  T. 

BARLEY  COFFEE. 

Roast  barley  until  well  brown  and  boil  a  tablespoonful  of  it  in  a  pint 
of  water  for  five  minutes;  strain  and  add  a  little  sugar,  if  desired.  A 
nourishing  drink  toward  the  close  of  fever  and  during  convalescence. 

M.  H.  O. 
OATMEAL  COFFEE. 

Mix  common  oatmeal  and  water  to  form  cake;  bake  and  brown  it, 
powder  it,  and  boil  in  water  five  minutes.  Good  for  checking  obstinate 
vomiting,  especially  in  cholera  morbus.  J.  Pollock. 

CRACKED  OR  ROLLED  WHEAT. 

In  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  stir  one  pint  of  cracked  v\/^heat.  One- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Use  a  farina  boiler  or  double  kettle,  and  cook 
three  hours  without  stirring.  When  done,  mold  in  dishes.  Eat  hot  or 
cold  with  fruit  sauce,  or  cream  and  sugar.  Excellent  in  constipation  or 
biliousness.  The  rolled  wheat  is  preferable.  Not  being  able  to  procure 
it  ready  prepared  one  can  crack  wheat  in  an  ordinary  coffee  mill.      J.  I. 

OATMEAL  MUSH. 

Coarse  oatmeal  should  also  be  cooked  like  rolled  wheat.  If 
desired  warm  for  breakfast,  can  be  left  in  a  granite  or  porcelain  farina 
boiler  over  night,  and  heated  in  a  few  minutes.  Do  not  soak  oatmeal 
over  night,  nor  try  to  cook  it  sufficiently  in  the  morning.  It  must  never 
be  stirred  while  cooking.  Fine  oatmeal  can  be  made  in  a  mush  like 
Indian  meal  and  be  ready  for  the  table  in  twenty  minutes.  T.  T. 

INDIAN  MEAL  HUSH. 

Take  fine  meal  of  Northern  corn  and  a  little  salt;  stir  slowly  in  boiling 
water  until  it  is  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred  easily.  Stand  it  on  back  of  the 
stove  and  cook  slowly  one  hour.     Is  better  cooked  in  a  milk  boiler.     1. 1. 

QRAHAH  nUSH. 

Stir  graham  flour  in  boiling  water  slowly  until  it  makes  a  thick  batter. 
Set  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  ten  minutes,  then  beat  two  minutes  and 
turn  into  the  dish.     To  be  eaten  with  fruit  juice  or  sugar  and  cream,     P. 


I 


SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT.  541 

SAGE  TEA. 

One-half  ounce  of  dry  leaves  of  sage,  one  quart  of  boiling  water; 

infuse  for  one-half  hour;  strain  and  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice  as  required 

by  the  patient.     Balm  and  other  teas  are  made  in  the  same  manner. 

H.  Bashaw. 
RICE  WATER. 

Two  ounces  of  rice,  two  quarts  of  water;  boil  an  hour  or  so  and  add 
sugar  and  nutmeg.  C.  K. 

A  REFRESHING  DRINK  IN  FEVERS. 

Put  a  little  sage,  two  sprigs  of  balm   and  a  little  sorrel  into  a  stone 

jug;  peel  a  small  lemon,  slice  it,  and  put  in  together  with  a  small  piece  of 

the  rind;    then  pour  in  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  sweeten  and  cover  it 

close.  G.  O.  V. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Currants,  cranberries  and  prunes  make  refreshing  drinks  when  added 
to  water  and  sweetened  to  suit  the  patient's  taste.  S.  B. 

WATER  GRUEL. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  or  oatmeal,  one  quart  of  water;  boil  for 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and  add  sugar  or  salt,  if  desired  by  the  patient. 

Q.   RiGGINS. 
RICE  GRUEL. 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  ground  rice,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
ground  cinnamon,  one  quart  of  water;  boil  slowly  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  add  the  cinnamon  near  the  conclusion  of  the  boiling;  strain  and 
sweeten.  R.  S. 

FLOUR  GRUEL. 

Rub  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  a  thin  paste  with  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  and  stir  it  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk;  cook 
ten  minutes;  season  with  salt;  strain  if  necessary  and  while  hot  stir  in  the 
beaten  white  of  one  ^^%.     The  ^^^  may  be  omitted  if  preferred. 

Mrs.  C.  Mitchell. 
LIME  WATER. 

Slack  one-half  cupful  of  lime  with  about  one-half  pint  of  water,  slowly 
added;  when  slacked  well  add  one  quart  of  water  and  stir  thoroughly, 
allow  it  to  settle,  decant  closely  and  pour  the  water  away,  then  add  one 
gallon  of  fresh,  clear,  distilled  or  rain  water  to  the  washed  lime;  shake 
often  for  a  day  or  two  and  let  settle.  C.  O.  I. 


54^  SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT, 

MILK  PUNCH. 

Sweeten  the  milk  well  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy  to  every 
cupful  of  milk;  stir  well  and  serve  with  ice.  H.  O. 

EQQ=NOQ. 

Scald  one  pint  of  new  milk  (but  do  not  boil  it),  take  three  eggs,  beat 
to  a  froth  with  one-fourt,h  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  add  one-half  gill  of  best 
brandy  and  one  tablespoonful  of  rum  and  a  little  nutmeg;  when  this  is 
thoroughly  beaten  add  the  scalded  milk.  M.  A.  Y. 

KOUMISS. 

Dissolv?e  a  piece  of  compressed  yeast  the  size  of  a  large  pea  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  water,  put  it  into  a  one-quart  can,  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
sugar  and  fill  four-fifths  full  with  milk.  Place  on  cover,  shake  frequently 
and  allow  it  to  stand  in  a  warm  room  for  two  days,  then  put  in  a  cool  cel- 
lar, placing  the  bottles  on  the  sides;  put  on  ice  and  shake  well  before 
using;  draw  with  a  champagne  tap.  R.  R. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

Select  a  plump  chicken,  cut  into  pieces  and  put  into  a  granite   pot 
'with  cover.     Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  barley  and  two  quarts  of 
water;  simmer  for  three  hours,  skimming  frequently.     When  done  remove 
from  the  fire,  let  stand  for  three  hours;  skim  off  top,  heat,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Turhoone. 
CLAM=JUICE  BROTH. 

Wash  in  cold  water  clams  in  their  shells,  place  them  on  a  stove  with- 
out water,  except  a  few  drops,  in  a  granite  saucepan,  and  as  they  become 
hot,  their  shells  will  open;  then  carefully  pour  out  the  broth,  season  to 
suit  the  taste  and  serve.  A.  L.  Brown. 

MUTTON  BROTH. 

Take  the  lean  part  of  neck  and  loin,  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  remov- 
ing all  the  fat.  Take  about  a  pound  of  the  meat  and  place  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  pint  of  cold  water  and  put  it  on  the  fire.  Remove  all  the 
scum.  Boil  this  two  hours,  strain,  and  flavor.  When  the  broth  com- 
mences to  boil  add  a  teaspoonful  of  pearl  barley.         Mrs.  M.  Manning. 

TOAST  WATER. 

Toast  a  crust  of  white  bread  very  brown  without  burning  it,  and  put 
it  into  cold  water.     After  an  hour  the  water  will  be  a  refreshing  drink; 


SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT.  543 

and  it  is  grateful  to  the  stomach  when  no  other  can  be  taken.     It  is  more 
palatable  by  the  addition  of  any  acid  jelly.  A  Xurse. 

BROILED  TENDERLOIN,  CHICKEN,  OR  nUTTON  CHOP. 

This  is  enjoyed  when  the  patient  is  becoming  convalescent.  Cut  out 
the  round  piece  from  the  inside  of  a  sirloin  steak,  boil  it  quickly  over  a 
bright  fire,  turn  it,  with  its  gravy,  upon  a  piece  of  freshly-made  toast, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  but  no  butter;  place  between  two  hot 
plates  and  serve  directly.  A  tender  mutton  chop,  or  one-half  of  the 
breast  of  a  chicken  can  be  served  the  same  way,  but  the  chicken  will 
require  longer  and  somewhat  slower  cooking.  Mary  Parry. 

CHICKEN  PANADA. 

Rub  together  in  a  mortar  the  meat  from  the  breast  of  a  cold  chicken 
with  stale  bread,  one-half  of  each,  then  add  slowly  the  water  in  which  the 
chicken  was  boiled,  or  some  nice  broth,  entirely  free  from  fat.  Boil  for  a 
few  moments  and  pass  the  whole  through  a  fine  sieve.  Mrs.  H.  P. 

BEEF  JELLY. 

(Excellent  for  Convalescents. ) 

Make  some  beef  tea  (see  Soups  with  Meat)  with  a  very  little  salt. 
Place  one-eighth  of  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  cold 
water  and  soak.  When  sufficientl}'  swollen  place  on  the  fire  and  boil  until 
dissolved.  Take  the  beef-tea  extract  when  nearly  cold,  add  the  gelatine, 
stir  well,  and  turn  into  molds.  Chicago  Hospital. 

BRAN  JELLY. 

Cover  three  cupfuls  of  bran  with  cold  water,  let  settle;  then  pour  off 
all  the  water  and  add  three  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  boiling  water  and  stir 
well;  place  on  the  stove  and  boil  slowly  for  two  hours;  then  strain,  return 
to  the  fire,  let  come  to  the  boiling  point,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  pour 
into  a  mold.     Delightful  and  wholesome.  St.  Luke's  Hospital. 

ARROWROOT  JELLY. 

Take  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  arrow- 
root, two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
brandy  or   three    tablespoonfuls    of   wine.      This   is   excellent    for   weak 

bowels.  A  Xurse. 

LEMON  WHEY. 

An  excellent  drink  for  a  person  with  a  cold,  to  induce  perspiration,  is 
made  putting  one-half  pint  of  milk  in   a  saucepan.     Boil  and  pour  in  a 


544  SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT. 

tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice;  add  more  if  this  does  not  turn  the  milk. 
Let  it  boil  up,  then  put  it  into  a  bowl  to  settle;  strain  and  sweeten  and  add 
a  little  hot  water  if  the  whey  is  too  acid  to  be  agreeable. 

Nurse  at  Sanitarium. 

STERILIZED  LEMONADE. 

Squeeze  the  juice  out  of  a  lemon.  Strain  it,  put  it  with  one-quarter  of 
the  rind  and  four  lumps  of  loaf  sugar  into  a  pitcher  and  pour  over  it  one 
pint  of  boiling  water.  Cover  close  and  let  it  stand  two  hours.  Then 
strain  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  Lemonade  for  the  sick  should  be 
made  with  boiling  water  as  the  unhealthy  properties  of  the  lemon  are 
thus  destroyed.  A  small  quantity  only  of  sugar  should  be  put  in  as  the 
acidity  will  most  likely  be  agreeable.  Health  School. 

BEVERAGE  FOR  FEVER  PATIENT. 

One-half  of  a  fresh  peach,  one  teaspoonful  of  brandy,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  sugar,  the  juice  of  one-half  of  a  lemon;    strain,  then  add  plenty  of 

shaved  ice.  Nemie  Freeman. 

ICE  MINT. 

One-fourth    of    teaspoonful    of    peppermint,   one    tablespoonful    of 

powdered  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  wine,  also 

one  teaspoonful  of  brandy;    mix  together  well,  fill  glass  with  shaved  ice; 

sip  through  a  straw.  Mrs.  Della  Fox. 

EXTRACT  OF  BEEF. 

Lean  beef  chopped  fine.  Put  a  sufficient  quantity  into  a  bottle  to  fill 
up  its  body,  cork  it  loosely,  and  place  it  in  a  pot  of  cold  water,  attaching 
the  neck,  by  means  of  a  string  to  the  handle  of  the  vessel.  Boil  this  for 
one  and  one-half  hours,  then  pour  off  the  liquor  and  skim  it.  To  this 
preparation  may  be  added  spices,  salt,  wine,  brandy,  etc.,  according  to  the 
taste  of  the  patient  and  nature  of  the  disease.  Mrs.  Rita  Pilard, 

FRENCH  MILK  PORRIDGE. 

Stir  oatmeal  and  water  together,  let  the  mixture  stand  to  clear  and 
pour  off  the  water.  Theii  put  more  water  to  the  meal,  stir  it  well  and  let 
it  stand  till  the  next  day.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve  and  boil  the  water, 
adding  milk  while  so  doing.  The  proportion  of  water  must  be  small. 
With  toast  this  is  a  good  preparation  for  weak  persons.  B.  Clark. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL. 

Take  a  tablespoonful  of  oatmeal  and  mix  smoothly  with  a  little  cold 
water.     Pour  on  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir  it  well,  then  let  it  stand  a 


SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT.  545 

few  minutes  to  settle.     Pour  it  back  very  gently  into  the  saucepan,  so  as 

to  leave  undisturbed  the  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the  gruel.     Let  it 

simmer,  stirring  occasionally  and  skimming  carefully.     Sweeten  and  flavor 

with  wine  and  spice,  or  grated  ginger,  or,  if  preferred,  a  little  salt  only 

may  be  put  in.     Dry  toast  or  biscuits  may  be  served  with  it. 

Mrs.  Allured. 
NUTTA. 

This  is  a  combination  of  nuts  and  cereals,  and  is  a  peculiarly 
strengthening  food  for  invalids.  It  can  be  eaten  dr>%  or  served  with  milk. 
Found  in  all  groceries.  Sanitarium. 

HALTED  niLK. 

The  name  of  this  preparation  indicates  its  character.  It  is  made  of 
the  best  nuts,  and  is  soluble  in  hot  or  cold  water,  when  it  forms  a  rich, 
cream  resembling  malted  milk,  but  finer  in  flavor.  Suitable  for  the 
feeble.  Sanitarium. 

TAPIOCA  CUP  PUDDING. 

This  is  very  light  and  delicate  for  invalids.  Take  an  even  table- 
spoonful  of  tapioca  and  soak  for  two  hours  in  a  cupful  of  new  milk.  Stir 
in  the  yolk  of  a  fresh  ^^^,  a  little  sugar,  a  grain  of  salt  and  bake  in  a  cup 
for  fifteen  minutes.  A  little  jelly  may  be  eaten  with  it,  if  allowed,  or  a 
few  fresh  strawberries.  Mrs.  C.  M.  Johnson. 

HEALTH  DRINK. 

A  cooling  drink  for  a  sick  person  is  made  by  boiling  one  and  one-half 
ounces  of  tamarinds,  three  ounces  of  cranberries  and  two  ounces  of  stoned 
raisins,  in  three  pints  of  water,  till  the  water  is  reduced  to  two  pints. 
Strain  and  add  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  which  must  be  removed  in  an  hour,  as 
it  gives  a  bitter  taste  if  left  too  long.  F.  T.  J. 

BOILED  PARTRIDGES. 

Partridges  are  very  delicate  and  tender  for  sick  or  old  people,  when 
boiled.  Wash  them  well,  truss  them  and  put  into  boiling  water,  sprinkle  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  over  and  simmer  them  very  gently  for  one-quarter  of 
an  hour,  or  if  the  birds  are  old,  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  sliced  lemon 
round  the  dish,  and  with  white  sauce,  celery  sauce,  or  bread  sauce,  accom- 
panied by  game  gravy.  M.  A.  Wells. 

MIXED  BEEF  TEA. 

Some  invalids  do  not  like  clear  beef  tea.  Try  this.  Take  beef,  mut- 
ton and  veal,  one  pound  of  each,  without  fat,  put  them,  cut  up  in  small 
pieces,  to  simmer  four  hours  in  three  pints  of  water.     When  boiling  skim 


546  SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT. 

thoroughly  and  draw  the  saucepan  aside,  that  it  may  only  extract  the  juices 
without  wasting  the  liquid.     Strain  and  serve  with  dry  toast  in  any  form. 

L.  C. 
TAPIOCA  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Wash  one  tablespoonful  of  tapioca  and  soak  it  in  a  pint  of  water  or 
milk  and  water  for  one-half  hour.  Let  it  boil,  then  simmer  gently  until  it 
is  quite  clear,  and  stir  frequently  to  keep  it  from  getting  into  lumps. 
Sweeten  it  slightly  and  flavor  with  wine  if  agreeable,  if  not,  with  cinna- 
mon. If  it  is  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  water.  Veal,  mutton  or  chicken 
broth  may  be  substituted  for  the  water.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Mendum. 

ORANGE  AND  LEMON  JUICE. 

A  fine  preparation  for  an  invalid  is  made  of  orange  or  lemon  juice, 
strained  and  boiled  with  an  equal  weight  of  loaf  sugar  and  then  bottled 
and  corked  closely.  It  is  an  agreeable  and  valuable  addition  to  gruel  and 
other  warm  drinks.  It  takes  fifteen  minutes  to  boil.  A  dessert-spoonful 
of  lemon  juice  must  be  added  to  one-half  of  a  pint  of  gruel. 

M.  S.  Bonnie. 
CELERY  FOR  RHEUMATISM. 

Celery  has  medicinal  qualities  above  the  average.  It  should  be  used 
extensively  by  people  suffering  from  rheumatism  and  nervous  diseases. 

AN  INVALID'S  DINNER. 

Select  a  good  chop  from  a  loin  of  mutton  and  trim  all  the  fat  from  the 
meat  and  put  it  in  a  covered  jar  (a  salt  jar  does  very  well  for  the  purpose) 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water;  stand  it  in  a  moderately  hot  oven, 
steam  it  one-half  hour,  and  a  few  minutes  before  serving  add  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Serve  very  hot,  with  the  gravy  poured  over  it.  Steak  or  chops 
cooked  in  this  manner  are  very  tender  and  easily  digested  by  the  weak 
and  delicate.  Bertha  R. 

FIBERLESS  BEEF  FOR  INVALIDS. 

For  those  who  are  fond  of  beef  steak  and  whose  stomach  will  not  per- 
mit of  the  regular  broiled  steak  try  the  following  method  of  cooking  it. 
Take  one  pound  of  fresh  juicy  round  steak  and  with  a  dull  knife  scrape 
out  the  beef,  leaving  the  fiber  by  itself  until  all  the  meat  has  been  scraped 
out.  Now  put  just  a  trifle  of  butter  in  the  bottom  of  a  fryin[]--pan,  let  it 
get  hot  and  put  in  the  scraped  meat.  Turn  two  or  three  times,  salt 
slightly  and  serve  hot.     It  is  delicious.  Dr.  Rockwell. 


SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT.  54? 

BALTIMORE    PUNCH. 

One  quart  of  Jamaica  rum,  one  quart  of  brand}-,  one  quart  of  port, 
one-half  pint  of  Curacoa,  three  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  one  dozen  lemons, 
one  quart  of  strong  black  tea.  To  mix:  To  the  tea  while  hot,  add  the 
sugar  and  lemon  juice;  mix  thoroughly  and  strain  through  cotton  cloth. 
When  cool  add  the  brandy,  rum  and  Curacoa.  If  to  keep  awhile,  bottle 
and  seal  it.  To  Ser\-e:  Over  a  clear  and  clean  cake  of  ice  in  the  punch 
bowl  place  your  stock,  adding  three  pint  bottles  of  soda  (aerated  water) 
to  each  quart  bottle  of  stock.  Stir  gently  and  ser\-e  at  once.  The  ice 
ma}- be  put  outside  the  bowl;  it  keeps  the  strength  of  the  punch  much 
steadier.  The  tea  should  not  draw  long  enough  to  become  bitter.  A  bot- 
tle of  champagne  with  each  three  bottles  of  soda,  or  in  place  of  them, 
enlivens  the  punch.  Mrs.  T.  R.  Smith. 

A  LIGHT  CU5TARD. 

Break  one  egg  into  a  teacup,  beat  it  up  and  sweeten  as  liked.  Add 
milk  to  fill  the  cup,  mix  once  more,  and  tie  a  piece  of  linen  over  it.  Set  it 
into  a  shallow  pan  one-half  full  of  water,  and  boil  ten  minutes.     J.  D.  T. 

APPLE    WATER. 

Roast  two  tart  apples  until  they  are  soft;  put  them  in  a  pitcher,  pour 
upon  them  a  pint  of  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  one 
hour.  It  is  used  in  fevers  and  eruptive  diseases,  and  does  not  require 
sweetening.  Rush  Medical  College. 

SAGO  GRUEL. 

Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sago  and  add  one  pint  of  water.  Boil  till 
it  thickens,  stirring  frequently.     Wine,  sugar  and  nutmeg  may  be  added. 

Doctor  John. 
SAGE  TEA. 

One-half  ounce  of  dried  leaves  of  sage,  one  quart  of  boiling  water. 
Infuse  for  one-half  hour  and  strain.  Add  sugar  and  lemon  juice  as 
required  by  the  patient.  The  above  is  an  agreeable  and  useful  drink  in 
fevers  and  its  diaphoretic  powers  may  be  increased  by  adding  a  little  sweet 
spirits  of  nitre.  Eliza  Locke. 

THICKENED  MILK. 

With  a  little  milk,  mix  a  smooth  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Pour  upon  it  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  when  it  is  thoroughly 
mixed  put  all  back  into  the  saucepan  and  boil  up  once,  being  careful  not 
to  burn  and  stirring  all  the  time,  to  keep  it  perfectly  smooth  and  free 


548  SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT. 

from  lumps.     Serve  with  slices  of  dry  toast.     It  is  excellent  in  diarrhea 
and  becomes  a  specific  by  scorching  the  flour  before  mixing  with  the  milk. 

Mary  C.  Jones. 
MILK  PORRIDGE. 

Take  a  tablespoonful  of  Indian  meal  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Wet  to  a  paste  with  cold  water.  Add  the  paste  to  two  cupfuls  of  boiling 
water  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Add  two  cupfuls  of  milk  and  a  little  salt 
and  cook  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  often.  Eat  with  sugar  and  milk,  while 
hot.  A  Nurse. 

STEWED  PRUNES. 

These  are  good  in  measles,  and  scarlet  fever,  both  as  food  and  medi- 
cine. Get  the  box  prunes  as  they  are  generally  of  a  much  better  quality 
than  the  open  sort.  Soak  them  for  one  hour  in  cold  water,  then  put  them 
into  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan,  with  a  little  more  water  if  necessary,  and  a 
little  sugar.  Cover  and  let  them  stew  slowly  for  one  hour,  or  until  they 
are  swollen  large  and  quite  soft.  They  are  excellent  as  an  accompani- 
ment to  breakfast  for  a  sick  person.  Julia  Tubes. 

PARCHED  RICE. 

Roast  the  rice  to  a  rich  brown.  Put  into  boiling  water  that  has  been 
salted,  and  boil  till  tender.  Do  not  disturb  it  if  you  can  help.  Drain  from 
the  water  and  serve  with  sugar.  E.  Reynolds. 

PUDDING  FOR  A  CONVALESCENT, 

Four  ounces  of  Ko-nut,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  six  eggs  beaten  separately, 
cinnamon,  cloves  and  lemon  rind  grated  to  taste,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants,  one-half  pound  of  grated  swartsbrod 
(black  bread).  Mix  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  yolks  of  eggs, 
spices,  bread,  currants,  and  then  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth; 
one-half  glassful  of  rum  added  gives  a  very  piquant  flavor.  Boil  two 
hours  and  serve  with  wine  sauce.  «         C.  G.  T. 

KO-NUT  PASTRY. 

(For  Weak  Stomachs.) 

One  and  one-fourth  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing-powder, one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-third  cupful  of  Ko-nut 
and  one-third  cupful  of  cold  water.  Mix  flour,  salt  and  baking-powder. 
Work  the  Ko-nut  lightly  into  flour  with  tips  of  fingers,  then  add  water, 
mixing  with  a  knife.  Dr.  Gray. 


SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT.  549 

Ventildwtion — Sewerage — Drinking'  Water. 

Every  woman  should  look  well  to  the  ventilation  of  the  home;  see 
that  every  chimney  is  unstopped  and  during  the  daytime  that  every  win- 
dow in  every  unoccupied  room  is  thrown  open. 

My  firm  belief  is,  that  if  more  attention  were  paid  to  thorough  venti- 
lation fevers  would  be  an  almost  unknown  disease.  The  cooping-up  S3^s- 
tem  is  abominable;  it  engenders  all  manner  of  infectious  and  loathsome 
diseases,  and  not  only  engenders  them,  but  feeds  them,  and  thus  keeps 
them  alive.  There  is  nothing  wonderful  in  all  this,  if  we  consider,  but  for 
one  moment,  that  the  exhalations  from  the  lungs  are  poisonous.  The 
lungs  give  off  carbonic  acid  gas  (a  deadly  poison),  which,  if  it  is  not 
allowed  to  escape  miist  be  breathed  over  and  over  again.  If  the  perspira- 
tion of  the  body  (which  in  twenty-four  hours  amounts  to  two  or  three 
poundsl)  is  not  permitted  to  escape  from  the  apartment,  it  must  become 
foetid — repugnant,  sickening,  and  injurious  to  the  health.  The  nose  is  a 
sentinel  and  often  warns  its  owner  of  approaching  danger! 

SLEEPING  ROOMS. 

The  bedroom  ought,  if  practicable,  to  be  large  and  airy.  Particular 
attention  must  be  paid  to  the  ventilation.  The  door  and  the  windows 
ought  in  the  daytime  to  be  thrown  wide  open,  and  the  bedclothes  should 
be  thrown  back,  that  the  air  might,  before  the  approach  of  night,  well 
ventilate  them.     Pure  air  and  a  frequent  change  of  air  is  quite  necessary. 

The  bed  must  not  be  loaded  with  clothes,  more  especially  with  a  thick 
coverlet.  If  the  weather  is  cold,  let  an  extra  blanket  be  put  on  the  bed, 
as  the  perspiration  can  permeate  through  a  blanket  when  it  cannot 
through  a  thick  coverlet.  The  knitted,  for  the  summer,  are  the  best,  as 
they  allow  the  perspiration  from  the  body  to  escape;  and  the  eiderdown, 
for  winter,  are  light,  warm,  and  ventilating. 

It  is  a  marvel  how  some  people,  with  four  or  five  blankets,  and  with  a 
thick  coverlet  on  the  bed,  can  sleep  at  all;  their  skins  and  lungs  are 
smothered,  and  are  not  allowed  to  breathe,  for  the  skin  is  as  much  a 
breathing  apparatus  as  are  the  lungs  themselves. 

SEWERS. 

To  destroy  the  smell  is  not  to  destro}^  the  danger;  certainly  not!  The 
right  way  to  do  awa}^  with  the  danger  is  to  remove  the  cause,  and  the 
effect  will  cease.     Flushing  a  sewer  is  far  more  efficacious  than  disin- 


550  SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT. 

fecting  one.  Soap  and  water,  the  scrubbing  brush,  sunshine  and  thorough 
ventilation,  each  and  all  are  far  more  beneficial  than  either  permanganate 
of  potash,  chloride  of  zinc  or  chloride  of  lime.  People  in  these  times 
think  too  much  of  disinfectants,  and  too  little  of  removal  of  causes;  they 
think  too  much  of  artificial,  and  too  little  of  natural  means. 

Not  only  should  the  ventilation  of  the  house  be  well  looked  after, 
but  it  ought  to  be  ascertained  that  the  drains  are  in  good  and  perfect 
order,  that  the  privies  are  frequently  emptied  of  their  contents,  and  that 
neither  drain  fluid  nor  privy  fluid  communicates,  in  any  way  whatever, 
with  the  supply  of  drinking  water.  Bad  drainage  and  overflowing  privies 
are  fruitful  sources  of  child-bed  fever,  gastric  fever,  scarlatina,  diphtheria, 
cholera  and  a  host  of  other  infectious,  contagious  and  dangerous  diseases. 
It  is  an  abominable  practice  to  allow  dirt  to  fester  near  human  habita- 
tions. 

PURE  WATER. 

Look  well  to  the  purity  of  the  well  water  and  ascertain  that  no  drain 
either  enters,  percolates,  or  contaminates  it  in  any  way  whatever.  If  it 
should  do  so,  disease,  such  as  cholera,  diarrhea,  dysentery,  diphtheria, 
scarlet  fever  or  gastric  fever,  will,  as  a  matter  of  course,  ensue.  If  there 
is  the  slightest  danger  or  risk  of  drain  contamination,  whenever  it  is  prac- 
ticable, let  the  drain  be  taken  up  and  examined,  and  the  defect  carefully 
rectified.  When  it  is  impracticable  to  have  the  drain  taken  up  and  exam- 
ined, then  always  boil  the  water  before  using.  The  boiling  of  w^ater,  as 
experience  teaches,  has  the  power  either  of  destroying  or  making  innocu- 
ous the  specific  organic  faecal  life  poison,  which  propagates  in  drain  con- 
tamination the  diseases  above  enumerated. 

The  water  from  the  drive  well  is  far  superior  to  water  from  the  old 
pump  well;  the  water  from  the  former  is  always  pure,  while  from  the 
latter  it  is  usually  most  impure. 


INFANTS    ^ 

HOW  AND  WHAT  TO  FEED  THEM. 

IF  IT  is  ascertained,  past  all  doubt,  that  a  mother  cannot  nurse  her 
child,  then  a  healthy  wet  nurse  should  be  procured,  as  the  food  which 
nature  has  supplied  is  superior  to  any  invented  by  art.  Never  bring  up  a 
baby,  if  you  can  possibly  avoid  it,  on  artificial  iod A.  It  is  impossible  to 
imitate,  perfectly,  the  admirable  and  subtle  chemistry  of  nature.  The 
law  of  nature  is,  that  a  babe,  for  the  first  few  months  of  his  existence, 
shall  be  brought  up  by  the  breast;  and  Nature's  law  cannot  be  broken 
with  impunity.  In  selecting  a  wet  nurse,  I  would  inquire  particularly  into 
the  state  of  her  health;  whether  she  is  of  a  healthy  family,  of  consump- 
tive habits,  or  if  she  or  any  of  her  family  have  the  scrofula,  ascertaining 
if  there  are  any  seams  or  swellings  about  her  neck;  any  eruptions  or 
blotches  upon  her  skin;  if  she  has  a  plentiful  breast  of  milk,  and  if  of 
good  quality;  if  she  has  good  nipples,  sufficiently  long  for  the  baby  to  hold; 
that  they  are  not  sore;  and  if  her  own  child  is  of  the  same  or  nearly  of 
the  same  age  as  the  one  you  wish  her  to  nurse. 

ARTIFICIAL   niLK. 

There  are  cases  where  people  object  to  a  wet  nurse  and  then  fre- 
quently, too,  none  can  be  found.  In  that  event  the  best  food  must  be 
resorted  to  that  can  be  found. 

Reason,  as  well  as  experience,  abundantly  proves  that  the  object  to 
be  aimed  at  in  hand-feeding  is  to  imitate  as  nearly  as  possible  the  food 
which  nature  supplies  for  the  new-born  child,  and  therefore  the  obvious 
course  is  to  use  milk  from  some  animal,  so  treated  as  to  make  it  resemble 
human  milk  as  nearly  as  it  may  be.  The  following  rule  is  considered 
about  the  best: 

Fresh  milk  from  one  cow; 

Warm  water,  of  each  one-quarter  of  a  pint, 

Sugar-of-milk,  one  teaspoonful. 

The  sugar-of-milk  should  first  be  dissolved  in  the  warm  water,  and 
then  the  fresh  milk  unboiled  ^\vo\AA  be  mixed  with  it.  The  sweetening  of 
the  above  food  with  sugar-of-milk,  instead  of  with  lump  sugar,  makes  the 
food  more  resemble  the  mother's  own  milk. 

551 


552  INFANTS— HOW  AND  WHAT  TO  FEED  THEM. 

Never  give  the  child  the  white  rubber  nipple  nursing  bottle,  since  it 
contains  in  its  composition  the  carbonate  of  lead,  which  is  a  slow  poison. 
Black  rubber  is  not  objectionable. 

After  a  child  begins  teething  any  of  the  following  foods  may  be  given: 
The  food  that  suits  one  infant,  however,  will  not  agree  with  another. 
The  one  that  I  have  found  the  most  useful  is  made  as  follows:  Boil  the 
crumb  of  bread  for  two  hours  in  water,  taking  particular  care  that  it  does 
not  burn,  then  add  only  a  little  loaf-sugar  (or  brown  sugar,  if  the  bowels 
are  costive)  to  make  it  palatable.  Mix  a  little  new  milk — the  milk  of  one 
cow — with  it,  gradually,  as  it  becomes  older,  increase  the  quantity  until  it 
is  nearly  all  milk,  there  being  only  enough  water  to  boil  the  bread;  the 
milk  should  be  poured  boiling  hot  on  the  bread.  Sometimes  the  two 
milks — the  mother's  and  the  cow's  milk — do  not  agree;  when  such  is  the 
case,  let  the  milk  be  left  out,  both  in  this  and  in  the  foods  following  and 
make  the  food  with  water,  instead  of  with  milk  and  water.  In  other 
respects,  until  the  child  is  weaned,  make  as  above  directed;  when  he  is 
weaned,  good  fresh  cow's  milk  must,  as  previously  recommended,  be  used. 

THE  NURSERY. 

The  nursery  ought  to  be  the  largest  and  most  airy  room  in  the  house. 
In  town,  if  it  is  the  top  story  (providing  the  apartment  is  large  and  airy) 
so  much  the  better,  as  the  air  will  then  be  purer.  The  architect,  in  the 
building  of  a  house,  ought  to  be  particularly  directed  to  pay  attention  to 
the  space,  the  loftiness,  the  ventilation,  the  light,  the  warming,  and  the 
conveniences  of  a  nursery.  A  bathroom  attached  to  it  will  be  of  great 
importance  and  benefit  to  the  health  of  a  child. 

VENTILATION. 

The  ventilation  of  a  nursery  is  of  paramount  importance.  There 
ought  to  be  a  constant  supply  of  fresh  pure  air  in  the  apartment.  But 
how  few  nurseries  have  fresh,  pure  air?  Many  nurseries  are  nearly  her- 
metically sealed — the  windows  are  seldom,  if  ever,  opened;  the  doors  are 
religiously  closed;  and,  in  summer  time,  the  chimneys  are  carefully  stuffed 
up,  so  that  a  breath  of  air  is  not  allowed  to  enter.  The  consequences  are 
that  the  poor  unfortunate  children  are  poisoned  by  their  own  breaths,  and 
are  made  so  delicate  that  they  are  constantly  catching  cold;  indeed,  it 
may  be  said  that  they  are  laboring  under  chronic  catarrhs,  all  arising  from 
Nature's  laws  being  set  at  defiance. 

A  child  ought  not  to  be  permitted  to  sit  with  his  back  to  the  fire;  it 


INFANTS—HOW  AND  WHAT  TO  FEED  THEM.  553 

weakens  the  spine,  and  thus  the  whole  frame;  it  causes  a  rush  of  blood  to 
the  head  and  face  and  predisposes  him  to  colds.  Pure  air  and  pure 
water,  let  me  add,  pure  milk,  are  the  grand  and  principal  requirements  of 
health  for  a  child. 

DRAINAGE. 

Look  well  to  the  drainage  of  the  house  and  neighborhood.  A  child 
is  very  susceptible  to  the  influence  of  bad  drainage.  Bad  drains  are  fruit- 
ful sources  of  scarlet  fever,  diphtheria,  diarrhea,  etc. 

WALLS  OF  A  NURSERY. 

Do  not  have  the  nursery  wall  covered  with  green  paper  hangings. 
Green  paper  hangings  contain  large  quantities  of  arsenic — arsenite  of 
copper — which  is  a  virulent  poison,  and  which  flies  about  the  room  in  the 
form  of  powder.  There  is  another  great  objection  to  having  your  nursery 
walls  covered  with  green  paper  hangings;  if  any  of  the  paper  should 
become  loose  from  the  walls  a  little  child  is  very  apt  to  play  with  it,  and  to 
put  it,  as  he  does  everything  else,  into  his  mouth. 

MAKE  A  CHILD  HAPPY. 

Let  a  child's  home  be  the  happiest  house  to  him  in  the  world;  and  to 
be  happy  he  must  be  merry  and  cheerful;  and  he  ought  to  have  an  abun- 
dance of  playthings,  to  help  on  the  merriment.  If  he  has  a  dismal  nurse, 
and  a  dismal  home,  he  may  as  well  be  incarcerated  in  a  prison,  and  be 
attended  by  a  jailor.  It  is  sad  enough  to  see  dismal,  doleful  men  and 
women,  but  it  is  a  truly  lamentable  and  unnatural  sight  to  see  a  doleful 
child.  The  young  ought  to  be  as  playful  and  as  full  of  innocent  mischief 
as  kittens.  There  will  be  quite  time  enough  in  after  years  for  sorrow  and 
for  sadness. 

Bright  colors,  plenty  of  light,  clean  windows  (mind  this,  if  you  please), 
an  abundance  of  good  colored  prints,  and  toys  without  number,  are  the 
proper  furnishings  of  a  nursery.  Nursery!  why,  the  very  name  tells  you 
what  it  ought  to  be — the  home  of  childhood — the  most  important  room  in 
the  house — a  room  that  will  greatly  tend  to  stamp  the  character  of  your 
child  for  the  remainder  of  his  life. 


p 


REVALENT  DISORDERS 
and  THEIR  REMEDIES 

SIMPLE  REMEDY  TO  BREAK  UP  A  HARD  COLD. 

WHEN  you  feel  a  cold  coming  on  drink  four  or  five  glasses  of  hot 
water  (not  warm  water,  but  hot).  In  one-half  hour  drink  four  more 
glasses  of  hot  water.  If  the  throat  is  sore,  gargle  it  with  warm  water  and 
alcohol,  in  the  proportion  of  one  teaspoonful  of  alcohol  to  one-half  glass- 
ful of  water.  On  going  to  bed,  fill  the  bath-tub  one-quarter  full  of  hot 
water  and  sit  in  it  eight  minutes,  keeping  the  water  as  hot  as  you  can 
stand.  If  you  do  not  have  a  bath-tub  then  put  the  feet  for  the  same 
length  of  time  into  a  foot-tub  filled  two-thirds  full  with  hot  water — take 
no  medicine,  but  drink  more  hot  water  and  go  to  bed.  If  the  lungs  are 
sore,  put  on  a  compress  as  follows:  Dip  a  napkin  in  cold  water,  wring  it 
out  dry  and  lay  it  over  the  throat  and  chest.  Over  this  spread  two  or 
three  thicknesses  of  flannel,  and  with  a  long  strip  of  cloth  tie  it  on.  Now 
forget  your  troubles  and  go  to  sleep.  In  the  morning  you  will  wonder 
what  became  of  the  cold.  A  Common  Sense  Mother. 

HICCOUGH    CURE. 

(For  a  Grown  Person.) 

To  cure  the  hiccoughs  of  a  grown  person,  one  has  sometimes  to  be  a 
little  more  persevering.  I  knew  a  case  where  a  patient  recovering  from 
typhoid  fever  had  the  hiccoughs  two  days,  and  the  physicians  had  tried 
every  known  remedy,  but  to  no  purpose.  It  was  then  that  a  very  simple 
remedy  was  suggested  by  the  wife  of  the  patient,  which  though  at  first 
ridiculed  by  the  doctors,  probably  saved  the  man's  life.  The  wife  said  to 
the  doctors  that  her  husband  had  asked  several  times  for  some  hot  coffee, 
and  begged  that  she  might  be  permitted  to  give  him  some.  The  doctors, 
although  they  had  previously  refused,  finally  consented,  saying,  "give  him 
only  a  little."  The  wife  then  went  to  the  kitchen,  with  her  own  hands 
made  some  fresh,  weak  coffee,  poured  out  a  small  one-half  cupful, 
creamed  and  slightly  sweetened  it  and  took  it  up  to  the  sick  man.  He 
drank  it  hot  and  in  fifteen  minutes  called  for  more.  An  additional  amount 
was  made  and  also  given  to  him  hot.  He  again  drank  it,  and  then  in  a 
few  moments  called  for  more — which  was  given   him.     The   third   time 

554 


PREVALENT  DISORDERS  AND  THEIR  REMEDIES.  555 

after  taking  the  hot  drink  the  hiccoughs  left  him  for  a  lapse  of  five  min- 
utes. This  cessation  of  the  hiccoughs,  even  though  for  only  five  minutes, 
encouraged  the  wife  to  urge  more  hot  drink  upon  him.  The  next 
time  the  hiccoughs  disappeared  for  a  longer  time.  When  they  again 
came  on,  more  hot  coffee  was  administered  and,  to  the  doctors'  sur- 
prise, next  morning  the  patient  was  sleeping  and  well  on  the  road  to 
recovery.  The  doctors  (three  in  number,  all  noted  ones  of  the  city  of 
Chicago)  said  it  was  a  miracle — but  admitted  that  the  hot  drink  did  what 
medicine  had  failed  to  do.  The  Nurse. 

HICCOUGH  CURE  FOR  CHILDREN. 

Many  children  are  subject  to  this  distressing  complaint.  A  lump  of 
sugar  saturated  with  vinegar  and  given  to  the  little  one  to  suck  will  relieve 
it  instantly.     This  is  the  recipe  of  a  French  physician.  M.  L.  E. 

HICCOUGH  CURE— No.  2. 

Small  pieces  of  ice  applied  suddenly,  so  as  to  surprise  the  patient,  will 
stop  persistent  hiccoughing.  Also  hot  drinks  of  weak  coffee  and  milk 
taken  frequently  has  the  desired  effect. 

For  swollen  and  bleeding  gums  rinse  the  mouth  with  a  wine-glassful 
of  warm  water  in  which  is  placed  about  seven  drops  of  myrrh.  This  will 
harden  the  gums  and  keep  them  from  working  off  the  teeth,  which  always 
gives  them  a  bad  appearance.  Mrs.  Pachaly. 

ANTIDOTE  FOR  POISONING. 

If  a  person  swallow  any  poison  whatever,  or  has  fallen  into  convulsions 
from  having  overloaded  the  stomach,  an  instantaneous  remedy,  more 
efficient  and  applicable  in  a  larger  number  of  cases  than  any  one-half 
dozen  medicines  we  can  think  of,  is  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  common  salt 
and  as  much  ground  mustard,  stirred  rapidly  in  a  teacupful  of  water, 
warm  or  cold,  and  swallowed  instantly.  It  is  scarcely  down  before  it 
begins  to  come  up,  bringing  with  it  the  remaining  contents  of  the  stomach; 
and  lest  there  be  any  remnant  of  poison,  however  small,  let  the  white  of 
an  e.<^^  or  a  teacupful  of  strong  coffee  be  swallowed  as  soon  as  the 
stomach  is  quiet.  These  very  common  articles  nullify  a  larger  number  of 
virulent  poisons  than  any  medicines  in  the  shops. 

Great  quantities  of  Paris  green  are  used  during  some  seasons  of  the 
year,  and  as  accidents  may  happen,  it  is  well  to  know  the  antidote  for  the 
poison.     Paris  green  owes  its  deadly  properties  to  arsenic,  as  does  Lon- 


556  PREVALENT  DISORDERS  AND  THEIR  REMEDIES. 

don  purple.     Should  either  of  these  be  taken  into  the  stomach,  let  the 

person  drink  copious  draughts  of  milk  or  raw  eggs  beaten  up,  and  as  soon 

as  possible  give  an  emetic,  mustard  is  as  good  as  anything,  and  keep  up 

the  action  of  vomiting  by  giving  milk  between  the  paroxysms  of  vomiting. 

When  the  stomach    no  longer  rejects  what  is  swallowed  give  a  good  dose 

of  castor  oil.  A.  C. 

CAUTION. 

Never  bite  or  pass  sewing  silk  through  the  lips  as  lead  poisoning  has 
been  known  to  result,  as  the  silk  is  soaked  in  acetate  of  lead  to  make  it 
weigh  heavier.  N.  A.  L. 

CRAHP  IN  BATHING. 

For  the  cure  of  the  cramp  when  swimming  Dr.  Franklin  recommends 
a  vigorous  and  violent  shock  to  the  part  affected  by  suddenly  and  forcibly 
stretching  out  the  leg,  which  should  be  darted  out  of  the  water  into  the 
air  if  possible.  G.  H. 

CRAMP  IN  THE  LEG. 

A  garter  applied  tightly  around  the  limb  affected  will,  in  most  cases, 
speedily  remove  the  complaint.  When  it  is  more  obstinate,  a  brick  should 
be  heated,  wrapped  in  a  flannel  bag,  and  placed  at  the  foot  of  the  bed, 
against  which  the  person  troubled  may  place  his  feet.  No  remedy,  how- 
ever, is  equal  to  that  of  diligent  and  long-continued  friction.  M.  M. 

SUNSTROKE. 

Sunstroke  is  prevented  by  wearing  a  silk  handkerchief  in  the  crown 
of  the  hat,  or  green  leaves,  or  a  wet  cloth  of  any  kind;  but,  during  an 
attack,  warm  water  should  be  instantly  poured  on  the  head,  or  rags 
dipped  in  the  water  and  renewed  every  minute.  The  reason  is  two-fold — 
the  scalp  is  dry  and  hot  and  the  warm  water  not  only  removes  the  dryness 
but  carries  off  the  extra  heat  with  great  rapidity  by  evaporation.    G.  L. 

NOSE  BLEED. 

Snufiflng  up  powdered  alum  will  generally  control  troublesome  bleed- 
ing from  the  nose.  It  will  also  almost  always  stop  excessive  hemorrhage 
from  a  cavity  caused  by  the  extraction  of  a  tooth,  by  being  placed  in  it. 

The  best  remedy  for  bleeding  at  the  nose,  as  given  by  Dr.  Gleason  in 
one  of  his  lectures,  is  in  the  vigorous  motion  of  the  jaws,  as  if  in  the  act 
of  mastication.  In  the  case  of  a  child  a  wad  of  paper  should  be  placed  in 
its  mouth  and  the  child  should  be  instructed  to  chew  it  hard.  It  is  the 
motion  of  the  jaws  that  stops  the  flow  of  blood.     This  remedy  is  so  very 


PREVALENT  DISORDERS  AND  THEIR  REMEDIES.  557 

simple  that  many  will  feel  inclined  to  laugh  at  it,  but  it  has  never  been 
known  to  fail  in  a  single  instance,  even  in  very  severe  cases.  E.  H. 

CHOKING. 

To  prevent  choking,  break  an  Qgg  into  a  cup  and  give  it  to  the  per- 
son choking  to  swallow.  The  white  of  the  egg  seems  to  catch  around  the 
obstacle  and  remove  it.  If  one  egg  does  not  answer  the  purpose  try 
another.     The  white  is  all  that  is  necessary.  V.  S.  T. 

CHOLERA    INFANTUM. 

For  cholera  infantum,  the  white  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten;  then  mix 
with  water;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  orange-flower  water  and  a  little 
sugar;  a  tablespoonful  every  hour.  It  will,  says  an  authority,  cure  the 
worst  case  of  cholera  infantum,  the  egg  coating  the  bowels.  P.  H. 

BUNIONS. 

Let  fall  a  stream  of  very  warm  water  from  a  teakettle,  at  the  highest 
elevation  from  which  the  patient  can  bear  the  water  to  fall  directly  on 
the  apex  of  the  swelling;  continue  this  once  a  day  for  a  short  time  and  a 
cure  will  be  effected,  providing  you  desist  from  wearing  short  shoes.  The 
greater  the  elevation  of  the  kettle  the  more  effectual  the  remedy. 

It  is  said  that  the  following  is  a  good  bunion  remedy:  Use  pulverized 
saltpeter  and  sweet  oil;  obtain  at  the  druggist's  five  or  six  cents'  worth  of 
saltpeter,  put  into  a  bottle  with  sufficient  olive  oil  to  nearly  dissolve  it; 
shake  up  well  and  rub  the  inflamed  joints  night  and  morning  and  more 
frequently  if  painful.     This  is  a  well-tried  remedy.  A.  ¥. 

TO  KILL  CORNS. 

Soak  bread  in  vinegar,  bind  on  day  and  night  and  they  will  come  out 

by  the  roots.  S.  T.  N. 

TO  KILL  WARTS. 

Prick  until  they  bleed;  then  apply  soda.  H.  F.  A. 

CURE   FOR  EXTERNAL  CANCER. 

Apply  as  poultice  bruised  stramonium  leaves.  Stramonium  affects 
some  persons  as  the  poison  ivy  does.  In  this  case  the  antidote  is  strong 
salt  water  freely  applied.  M.  H.  P.  Crandall. 

INTERNAL  CANCER  CURE. 

Take  the  dried  blossoms  of  the  common  red  clover,  put  them  in  hot 
water,  let  them  steep  over  night  and  this  will  be  a  clover  tea.     Take  a 


558  PREVALENT  DISORDERS  AND  THEIR  REMEDIES. 

tablespoonful  of  this  tea  five  or  six  times  daily.     Cases  of  virulent  cancer 
have  been  cured  by  this  simple  remedy.  H.  N. 

FELON  CURE. 

Apply  a  poultice  of  raw  onions  three  times  a  day  and  four  days  will 

effect  a  cure.  E.  G. 

FELON  CURE— No.  2. 

The  first  symptoms  of  felon:  The  person  imagines  there  is  a  briar  in 
the  inner  covering  of  the  bone,  usually  at  the  last  joint  of  the  finger. 
Then  comes  a  slight  swelling,  intense  heat  and  throbbing.  Remedy: 
Apply  a  soft  cloth  saturated  with  tincture  of  stramonium  (generally  known 
as  jimson  weed).  Bind  on  with  neatly  laid  bandage.  This  will  prevent 
any  further  progress  of  the  felon.  M.  H.  P.  Crandall. 

TO  COOL  THE  BLOOD. 

Take  eight  ounces  of  sarsaparilla,  three  ounces  of  root  licorice,  six 

ounces  of  wild  cherry  bark,  one-half  ounce  of  mandrake,  one  ounce  of 

gentian,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  red  pepper.     Boil  in 

three  gallons  of  rain  water  till  reduced  to  one-half.     Sweeten  a  very  little. 

This  is  a  fine  drink  for  cooling  the  blood.     Abstain  from  sweets  while 

using  it.  M.  H.  N. 

BLOOD  PURIFIER. 

Clover  tea  is  a  fine  blood  purifier,  drank  freely,  removing  pimples  and 
whitening  the  skin.  It  is  also  a  sleep-inducing  draught.  Its  efficiency  in 
early  stages  of  cancer  is  unquestioned.  H.  F.  L. 

TO  COUNTERACT  POISONOUS  GAS. 

An  ordinary  gas  jet  consumes  as  much  oxygen  as  four  human  bemgs. 

It  is  well  when  sitting  long  in  a  gas-lighted  room  to  occasionally  open  a 

door  or  a  window  for  a  few  moments  and  bring  in  some  fresh  air.     Plants 

in  pots  do  not  thrive  well  in   rooms  where  gas  is  used  for  illuminating  or 

where  it  is  used  as  fuel.  B.  O.  L. 

RELIEF  FOR  CHOLERA. 

One  ounce  of  essence  of  peppermint,  one  ounce  ot  laudunum,  one 
ounce  of  spirits  of  camphor,  one  ounce  of  spiced  rhubarb,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cayenne  pepper.     Dose:    One-half  teaspoonful  as  often  as  required 

to  relieve  pain.  M.  C. 

TO  CLEAR  A  WASTE  PIPE. 

Just  before  retiring  at  night  pour  into  the  clogged  pipe  enough  liquid 
soda-lye  to  fill  the  "trap"  or  bent  part  of  the  pipe.     Be  sure  that  no  water 


PREVALENT  DISORDERS  AXD  THEIR  REMEDIES.  559 

runs  into  it  until  the  next  morning.  Daring  the  night  the  lye  will  convert 
all  the  offal  into  soft  soap  and  the  first  current  of  water  in  the  morning 
will  wash  it  away  and  clear  the  pipe  clean  as  new. 

The  Sanitar  Enquirer. 

TO  REMOVE  PROUD  FLESH. 

Pulverize  loaf  sugar  very  fine  and  apply  it  to  the  part  affected.  This 
is  an  easy  remedy  and  is  said  to  remove  it  entirely  without  pain.     E.  E. 

DROPSY  CURE. 

A  tea  made  of  chestnut  leaves  and  drank  freely  instead  of  water  will 
relieve  an  obstinate  case  of  dropsy  in  a  few  days.  H.  K. 

BLACKBERRY  SYRUP  FOR  LOOSE  BOWELS. 

Make  a  simple  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  water  and 
boil  till  it  is  rich  and  thick.  Add  as  many  pints  of  the  expressed  juice  of 
ripe  blackberries  as  there  are  pounds  of  sugar.  Grate  half  a  nutmeg  to 
each  quart  of  S3^rup  and  let  it  boil  for  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 
Then  add  one-half  gill  of  fourth-proof  brandy  to  each  quart  of  syrup.  Set 
it  by  till  cold,  then  bottle  for  use.  A  tablespoonful  for  a  child  or  a  wine- 
glassful  for  an  adult,  is  a  dose.  S.  N.  N. 

CARE  OF  THE  EARS. 

Children's  ears  ought  never  to  be  boxed,  for  besides  being  an  ill-man- 
nered way  to  punish  one,  it  is  liable  to  injure  permanently  the  delicate 
membrane  of  the  ear.  Nor  should  the  ear  ever  be  "cleaned  out  with  the 
screwed-up  corner  of  a  towel,"  much  less  with  a  bodkin. 

Popular  Science  Monthly. 

TO  REMOVE  LODGMENT  IN  THROAT. 

When  a  child  swallows  anything  that  lodges  in  the  throat  lift  it  sud- 
denly by  the  wrists.  It  will  cause  the  little  one  to  scream  and  cough  and 
the  object  will  generally  be  dislodged  at  oncj.  P-  T. 

A  GOOD  WAY  TO  TAKE  CASTOR  OIL. 

There  is  nothing  better  for  a  cold  than  castor  oil  and  a  very  simple 
way  to  give  it  to  children,  is  to  make  up  a  pan  of  molasses  candy  and  add 
plenty  of  castor  oil  to  it  just  before  removin;^  from  the  fire.  The  taste  of 
oil  in  it  cannot  be  detected.  Julia  Merrill. 


560  PREVALENT  DISORDERS  AND  THEIR  REMEDIES. 

CHOLERA  INFANTUM. 

It  is  asserted  by  a  physician  that  a  flannel  bandage  saturated  with 
alcohol  and  bound  around  a  baby's  bowels  when  suffering  with  cholera 
infantum  is  excellent.  L.  B. 

CROUP. 

One  teaspoonful  of  molasses  and  one  teaspoonful  of  goose  oil  given 
to  a  child  in  the  early  stage  of  croup  will  relieve  it  at  once.         E.  L.  A. 

FOREIGN  BODY  IN  THE  EYE. 

As  soon  as  anything  gets  into  the  eye,  rub  the  well  eye,  and  don't 
touch  the  other.  If  this  does  not  remove  it  turn  back  the  lid  and  with  the 
point  of  a  fine  cambric  or  silk  handkerchief  remove  the  irritating  body  if 
it  can  be  seen.  If  not,  take  a  small  syringe  and  gently  inject  tepid  water 
under  the  lid.     This  will  generally  wash  the  offender  out.  John  M. 

HOW  TO  CURE  CHAFING. 

During  warm  weather  many  people  suffer  from  chafing  of  the  arm- 
pits. This  can  be  prevented  by  thoroughly  dusting  the  irritated  parts 
with  sub-nitrate  of  bismuth  or  calomel.  L.  S. 

HOW  TO  CURE  MOSQUITO  BITE. 

Take  a  teaspoonful  of  the  tincture  of  wild  rosemary  to  one-half  tum- 
blerful of  water  and  apply  the  lotion  where  the  insect  stung.  J.  G. 

TO  HAKE  EXCELLENT  LINIHENT. 

Take  one  ounce  of  camphor,  four  ounces  of  olive  oil.  Dissolve  the 
gum  in  the  oil.  By  adding  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of  chloroform  a  lini- 
ment is  obtained  which  will  allay  any  pain.  Mrs.  Paul  S. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  LINSEED  POULTICE. 

Take  four  ounces  of  linseed  meal  and  ten  fluid  ounces  of  boiling 
water.  Mix  the  linseed  meal  gradually  with  the  water  and  apply.  Dip 
the  spoon  with  which  you  spread  the  poultice  in  boiling  water  and  the 
mass  will  not  stick  to  it.  M.  H. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  HUSTARD  POULTICE. 

Take  of  dry  mustard  two  ounces  and  mix  it  with  the  white  of  two 
eggs  to  a  proper  consistency.  A  teaspoonful  of  flour  can  be  added. 
There  are  mustard  plasters  to  be  purchased  at  drug-stores  which  are  far 
more  available  and  always  ready  for  use,  Mrs.  Wm.  S. 


PREVALENT  DISORDERS  AND  THEIR  REMEDIES.  561 

TO  REHOVE  COLD  IN  THE  HEAD. 

A  cold  in  the  head  is  very  disagreeable.  Inhale  spirits  of  camphor 
when  the  first  symptoms  appear.  Put  one  or  two  drops  of  the  camphor 
on  a  small  lump  of  sugar,  dissolve  in  a  wine-glassful  of  water  and  take  a 
teaspoonful  every  two  hours.  J.  R. 

TO  CURE  DIPHTHERIA. 

Relief  has  followed  in  the  early  stages  of  this  terrible  complaint  by 
gargling  with  sulphur  and  water,  or  have  some  blown  down  the  throat 
in  the  form  of  a  spray.  For  a  simple  sore  throat  bind  a  strip  of  flannel 
on,  wet  in  camphor,  and  use  a  gargle  of  salt  and  vinegar.         Mrs.  V.  B. 

CURE  FOR  TOOTHACHE. 

One-quarter  of  a  pint  of  best  alcohol,  one-half  ounce  of  chloroform, 
one-half  ounce  of  arnica,  one-quarter  ounce  of  oil  of  cloves.  Mix  and 
apply  with  a  piece  of  absorbent  cotton;  rub  also  on  the  gums  and  upon 
the  face  against  the  tooth.     Sure  cure.  M.  S. 

A  GOOD  CATHARTIC. 

One-half  ounce  each  of  peppermint  leaf  and  jalap,  one  ounce  of 
senna,  two  ounces  of  figs  chopped  fine.  Dose:  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  the 
mixture  into  a  cup  and  pour  upon  it  three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water; 
drink  when  cold.     Take  before  breakfast.  Kunze. 

SPRAIN  REMEDY. 

Take  the  white  of  two  eggs  and  put  into  a  cup;  stir  with  a  lump  of 
alum  the  size  of  an  English  walnut  until  it  jellies.  Saturate  a  cloth  and 
apply  to  the  sprain,  changing  it  for  a  fresh  one  as  often  as  it  becomes  hot 
and  dry.     Keep  the  limb  in  a  raised  or  horizontal  position.         H.  W.  S. 

TO  CURE  DRY  PILES. 

The  dry  piles  can  readily  be  cured  by  a  bruised  onion,  roasted  in 
ashes.  Dr.  J.  M.  Smith. 

INWARD  PILES. 

A  small  pitch  pill  taken  after  fasting  a  day  will  usually  kill  the  bleed- 
ing piles.  Or,  take  twice  a  day  of  the  thin  skin  of  walnuts  as  much  as  will 
lie  on  a  25-cent  piece.  Wesley, 


562  PREVALENT  DISORDERS  AND  THEIR  REMEDIES. 

PALPITATION  OF  THE  HEART. 

A  lady,  about  forty  years  of  age,  had  suffered  twelve  years  from  peri- 
odical attacks  of  palpitation  of  the  heart,  so  violent  as  to  shake  the  bed  on 
which  the  patient  lay.  During  one  attack,  feeling  thirsty,  she  expressed  a 
desire  for  some  soda-water.  No  sooner  had  she  swallowed  the  first 
draught  than  her  palpitation  left  her,  and  recurred  no  more  until  the 
period  of  the  next  attack.  As  soon  as  it  commenced,  she  sent  for  her 
medical  attendant,  and  told  him  what  had  occurred  a  month  previously, 
and  requested  to  be  allowed  to  try  the  same  remedy  a  second  time.  He 
consented,  but,  wishing  to  ascertain  which  of  the  ingredients  of  the  soda- 
water  had  relieved  the  complaint,  he  gave  her  a  dose  of  citric  acid  by 
itself.  This  had  no  effect.  He  then  gave  her  a  dose  of  carbonate  of 
soda,  which  also  failed.  He  then  mixed  the  powders  and  gave  her  some 
ordinary  soda-water,  placing  his  hand  at  the  same  time  upon  her  heart. 
The  moment  she  swallowed  the  first  mouthful  the  palpitation  ceased  and 
recurred  no  more  for  that  time.  From  that  period,  whenever  the  palpita- 
tion came  on,  she  could  always  stop  it  by  this  simple  remedy.  It  appears, 
from  the  experiments  made  by  medical  men  that  the  carbonic  acid  was 
the  active  element  in  relieving  the  complaint,  because,  until  the  gas  was 
liberated  by  the  mixture  of  citric  acid  and  the  carbonate  of  soda,  no  bene- 
fit accrued.  Journal  of  Health. 

SCROFULA. 

Take  as  much  cream  of  tartar  a  slies  on  a  nickel,  every  morning  and 
evening.  Or,  make  a  leaf  of  dried  burdock  into  a  pint  of  tea;  take  one- 
half   pint  twice   a   day   for  four  months.      I    have  known  this    to  cure 

hundreds.  M.  E. 

QUINSY. 

Roast  four  large  onions.  Peel  them  quickly  and  slightly  pound.  Add 
to  them  a  little  sweet  oil.  Place  them  while  hot  in  a  thin  muslin  bag 
that  will  reach  from  ear  to  ear,  first  thoroughly  rubbing  the  throat  and  in 
this  way  getting  up  a  good  circulation  of  blood.  Apply  as  warm  as  pos- 
sible to  the  throat.  Change  when  the  strength  of  the  onions  appears  to 
be  exhausted.  Flannel  must  be  worn  round  the  neck  after  the  onion  is 
removed.  A  Nurse. 

ULCER. 

Wash  thoroughly  with  Green's  soft  soap,  rinse  well  and  then  saturate 
a  piece  of  absorbent  cotton  with  peroxide.  Let  this  come  to  a  foam  and 
then  sprinkle  over  a  little  iodoform;  tie  up  carefully  and  repeat  in  six 
hours.     Or,  boil  walnut-tree  leaves  in  water  with  a  little  sugar.     Apply 


PREVALENT  DISORDERS  AND  THEIR  REMEDIES.  563 

absorbent  cotton  dipped  in  this,  changing  it  once  in  two  days.  This  has 
done  wonders.  This  has  cured  foul  bones;  yea,  and  a  leprosy.  Foment 
morning  and  evening  with  a  decoction  of  mint;  then  sprinkle  on  it  finely- 
powdered  rue.  Nurse. 

ABSCESS. 

An  abscess  requires  the  application  of  warm  poultices  and  a  cooling 
aperient  medicine.  The  poultice  may  be  made  of  bread  and  water,  oat- 
meal or  linseed  meal.  These  should  be  applied  till  the  abscess  bursts 
when  it  should  discharge  freely.  After  it  has  ceased,  apply  moist  linen 
for  a  day  or  two;  then  apply  absorbent  cotton  saturated  with  peroxide. 
This  will  draw  out  the  poison.  If  the  healing  is  slow,  dust  the  abscess 
over  with  iodoform.  It  is  sometimes  necessary  when  the  bursting  is  slow 
and  the  pain  great  to  open  the  abscess  with  the  point  of  a  lancet,  which 
prevents  much  suffering.  H.  C. 

NIGHTMARE. 

This  is  a  complaint  which  comes  when  the  sleep  is  disturbed.  It  is 
the  dreaming  of  something  horrible  and  the  person  feels  that  it  is  some- 
thing from  which  he  cannot  escape  but  is  the  victim.  He  attempts  to 
scream  for  help  but  usually  his  effort  is  in  vain.  Nervous  and  over- 
worked people  are  especially  subject  to  it.  It  is  due  to  poor  circulation. 
It  is  not  only  unpleasant  but  dangerous.  The  best  remedy  is  to  bathe 
each  morning  in  cold  water  on  arising,  eat  plain  foods,  little  or  no  meat, 
tea  or  coffee,  and  breathe  deeply  for  fifteen  minutes  each  night  before 

retiring.  B.  S.  Y. 

COLIC. 

There  are  few  diseases  attended  with  more  pain,  although  not  at  all 
dangerous.  It  is  a  spasmodic  affection  of  the  bowels.  It  is  caused  by 
indigestible  food,  gas,  and  bile  in  the  system. 

Remedy. — Apply  hot  flannel  cloths  wrung  out  in  hot  water.     If  the 

bowels  are  tight  an  injection  of  hot  water  is  excellent;   so,  also,  is  a  hot 

foot  bath.  O.  M. 

HOW  TO  CURE  NOSEBLEED— REMEDY  No.  2. 

Unless  it  is  violent,  do  not  interfere  with  a  bleeding  from  the  nose.  A 
bleeding  from  the  nose  is  frequently  an  effort  of  Nature  to  relieve  itself, 
and  unless  it  is  likely  to  weaken  the  patient,  ought  not  to  be  restrained. 
If  it  is  necessary  to  restrain  the  bleeding,  press  the  nose  firmly  between 
the  finger  and  thumb  for  a  few  minutes,  this  alone  will  often  stop  the 
bleeding;  if  it  should  not,  then  try  what  bathing  the  nose,  forehead  and 
nape  of  the  neck  with  water  quite  cold  from  the  well,  will  do,  or  try  the 
effect  of  a  solution  of  alum. 


564  PREVALENT  DISORDERS  AND  THEIR  REMEDIES. 

Take  of  powdered  alum,  one  drachm,  water,  one-half  pint;  enough  to 
make  a  lotion.  A  little  of  the  lotion  should  be  put  into  the  palm  of  the 
hand  and  sniffed  up  the  bleeding  nostril.  If  this  does  not  succeed  some 
of  the  lotion  ought  to  be  syringed  up  the  nose.  Dr.  P.  B.  Saur. 

TOBACCO    SMOKING. 

I  consider  tobacco  smoking  one  of  the  most  injurious  and  deadly 
habits  a  boy  or  young  man  can  indulge  in.  It  contracts  the  chest  and 
weakens  the  lungs,  thus  predisposing  to  consumption.  It  impairs  the 
stomach,  producing  indigestion.  It  debilitates  the  brain  and  nervous  sys- 
tem, inducing  epileptic  fits  and  nervous  depression.  It  stunts  the  growth 
and  is  one  cause  of  the  present  race  of  pigmies.  It  makes  the  young  lazy 
and  disinclined  to  work.  It  is  one  of  the  greatest  curses  of  the  present 
day.  Dr.  Murphy. 

QUHBOIL. 

A  decayed  root  of  a  tooth  causes  inflammation  and  abscess  of  the 
gum,  which  abscess  breaks,  and  becomes  a  gumboil.  Foment  the  outside 
of  the  face  with  a  hot  camomile  and  poppy-head  fomentation  and  apply 
to  the  gumboil,  between  the  cheek  and  the  gum,  a  small  white  bread-and- 
milk  poultice,  which  renew  frequently.  As  soon  as  the  gumboil  has 
become  quiet,  by  all  means  have  the  affected  tooth  extracted,  or  it  may 
cause  disease,  and  consequently  serious  injury  to  the  jaw.  Whenever  the 
patient  catches  cold  there  will  be  a  renewal  of  the  inflammation  of  the 
abscess  and  the  gumboil,  and,  as  a  matter  of  course,  renewed  pain,  trouble 
and  annoyance.  Decayed  fangs  of  teeth  often  cause  the  breath  to  be 
offensive.  Dentist. 

TO  CURE  CORNS— REMEDY  No.  2. 

The  best  remedy  for  a  hard  corn  is  to  remove  it.  The  usual  method 
of  cutting,  or  of  paring  a  corn  away  is  erroneous.  The  following  is  the 
right  way:  Cut  with  a  sharp  pair  of  pointed  scissors  around  the  circum- 
ference of  the  corn.  Work  gradually  round  and  round  toward  the  center. 
When  you  have  loosened  well  the  edges  you  can  either  with  your  fingers 
or  with  a  pair  of  forceps,  generally  remove  the  corn  bodily  and  that  with- 
out pain  and  the  loss  of  any  blood.  This  plan  of  treating  a  corn  I  can 
recommend  to  you  as  being  most  effectual.  Dr.  John  Smith. 

CATARRH  CURE. 

One  drachm  of  golden  seal  powder,  one  quart  of  hot  water,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  common  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  white  borax,  ten  drops  of 


PREVALENT  DISORDERS  AND  THEIR  REMEDIES.  565 

weak  carbolic  acid.     Mix  and  stand  one  hour.     Then  take  a  one-ounce 

bottle  of  liquid  and  pass  through  nostril;    repeat  same  amount  through 

other  nostril.  Dr.  M.  A.  Rush. 

CATARRH  REHEDY. 

Two  ounces  of    powdered  cubebs,  two  ounces  of  chamoline  blows. 

Mix  well  together.     Put  a  small  portion  into  a  clean  pipe,  smoke  and 

draw  the  smoke  back  through  the  nose,  three  or  four  times  daily. 

Dr.  John. 
COUGH  SYRUP— FINE. 

One  ounce  each  of  hoarhound  and  licorice,  two  ounces  of  gum  arabic, 
one  pint  of  molasses  and  one  teacupful  of  vinegar.  Boil  the  hoarhound 
in  one  quart  of  water;  dissolve  the  licorice  and  gum  arabic  in  a  little 
water  first.  Strain  the  hoarhound  before  adding  the  other  ingredients. 
Do  not  put  in  the  vinegar  until  it  is  nearly  done.      Dr.  Samuel  Rogers. 

A  SURE  COUGH  CURE. 

Three-eighths  of  an  ounce  of  anise  seed,  three-eighths  of  an  ounce  of 
stick  (or  root)  licorice  three-eighths  of  an  ounce  of  senna  leaf  and  one- 
half  pint  of  Jamaica  rum.  Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  on  the  herbs 
and  let  them  simmer  slowly,  down  to  one-half  pint.  Then  strain  and 
when  cool  add  one-half  pint  of  best  syrup  and  one-half  of  a  pint  of  rum. 
Take  as  often  as  required.  This  recipe  has  been  in  our  family  for  years 
and  has  never  failed.  Myra  Town. 


T01I61)  SUQOGSliOnS 

^^  AND  RECIPES  ^^ 

FROM  earliest  ages,  the  care  of  the  person  has  engaged  the  attention 
of  all  who  desire  to  be  admired.  Each  year  a  new  growth  of  ideas 
in  this  direction  is  springing  up,  not  alone  among  the  women,  but  the 
men,  until  to-day  it  has  come  to  be  understood,  that  in  order  to  gain 
approbation  from  a  standpoint  of  looks,  attention  to  the  toilet  is  necessary. 

There  is  a  great  call  for  absolutely  pure  recipes  and  harmless  sugges- 
tions in  improving  the  skin,  in  warding  off  wrinkles;  in  preserving  the 
hair,  in  keeping  the  figure  erect,  teaching  good  poise,  etc.,  etc.  I  give 
only  those  that  have  been  tried  and  pronounced  a  success. 

Among  the  many  things  made  possible  for  women  by  nineteenth  cen- 
tury science  is  a  beautiful  complexion  and  a  graceful  form. 

Age  need  make  no  difference  in  these  days  of  progress — the  woman  of 
fifty  is  as  attractive  and  as  much  admired  as  her  young  daughter. 

Is  your  skin  wrinkled  and  old-looking,  your  complexion  muddy  and 
unhealthy,  your  neck,  cheeks,  arms  or  breasts  shrunken  and  unsightly? 
Why  not  remedy  the  matter? 

THE  ROYAL  ROAD  TO  BEAUTY. 

Breathe  deeply,  bathe  daily — think  joy,  not  soi^row — eat  wisely  and  never 
speak  unkindly. 

A  CHEERFUL  DISPOSITION. 

A  cheerful  disposition  and  an  optimistic  view  of  life  do  much  toward 
making  the  beauty  suppliant,  plump  of  outline  and  charming  of  counte- 
nance. When  one  is  blue  and  moody,  the  appetite  fails,  the  stomach 
sulks,  digestion  and  assimilation  are  interfered  with  and  the  entire  body 
suffers  from  malnutrition.  One  should  get  out  of  doors.  Exercise 
moderately  and  rest  a  good  deal.  Read  helpful  books.  I  would  suggest 
Ralph  Waldo  Trine's  works.  Sleep  always  in  a  well-ventilated  room. 
One-half  hour  before  breakfast  take  a  dessert-spoonful  of  pure  olive  oil 
in  a  little  lemon  juice.  The  olive  oil  feeds  the  system,  aids  digestion  and 
stimulates  the  bowels. 

666 


TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES.  ^^1 

SUFFICIENT  TIME  FOR  EATINQ. 

(From  "The  Pilgrim.")  , 

Julia  Holmes  Smith,  M.  D.,  in  "Hints  for  Right  Living,"  says:  "We 
should  give  more  time  to  the  ingestion  of  our  food;  good  humor  should 
be  cultivated  and  the  hour  spent  at  the  table  dedicated  to  the  goddess  of 
leisure,  although  unfortunately  the  habits  of  American  life  make  us  echo 
Jean  Ingelow's  plaint: 

'If  leisure  is,  but  ah,  't  is  not, 

The  fashion  of  it  man  forgot 

About  the  days  of  chivalry.' 

"At  the  table  the  family  should  early  be  trained  to  avoid  all  unpleasant 
themes,  even  the  criticism  of  the  children's  table  habits  should  be  reserved 
for  an  aftermath.  Many  a  child's  appetite  is  spoiled  by  the  sharp  tone  of 
the  mother,  'Hold  your  fork  straight  and  don't  bite  your  teaspoon.'  It 
should  be  the  object  of  each  and  all  to  get  in  if  possible  a  good  bit  of  fun, 
for,  'A  hearty  laugh  aideth  digestion.' 

"  The  housewife  who  keeps  her  trials  to  retail  to  her  husband  at  meal- 
times, and  the  man  who  brings  home  business  anxieties,  which  he  imper- 
tinently intrudes,  sin  not  alone  against  propriety,  but  against  hygiene  as 
well;  because  anxiety,  sorrow,  or  sudden  shock  are  known  to  have  a  very 
serious  effect  upon  digestion,  acting  through  a  curious  little  nerve  center 
called  the  solar  plexus,  which  lies  just  back  of  the  stomach  and  sends  its 
tendrils  to  almost  all  parts  of  the  digestive  system.  It  is  difficult  to  find 
the  filaments  of  this  plexus  even  with  the  microscope  and  yet  so  impor- 
tant is  it  in  our  organism  that  Virchow,  the  great  German  authority,  called 
this  solar  plexus  the  abdominal  brain,  since  it  acts  through  the  sympa- 
thetic nervous  system  upon  almost  every  part  of  the  organism." 

THE  COMPLEXION. 

The  most  perfect  form  will  avail  woman  little  unless  it  possesses  also 
that  brightness  which  is  the  finishing  touch  and  final  polish  of  a  beautiful 
lady. 

Blessed  is  the  woman  who  has  a  clear  complexion.  She  little  knows 
how.  much  she  has  to  be  thankful  for,  and  since  these  women  are  very 
scarce  it  behooves  the  rest  of  us  to  make  up  by  the  care  we  take  of  our 
complexion  where  nature  has  slighted  us. 

The  principal  source  of  a  bad  complexion  in  otherwise  healthy  women 
is  generally  caused  by  comedos,  commonly  called  flesh  worms.  This  is 
specifically  a  disease  of  puberty  and  consequently  self-limited.  These  are 
affections  of  the  sebaceous  glands  of  the  skin  and  consequently  can  be 


568  TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES. 

prevented  by  keeping  it  in  a  healthy  condition,  which  can  be  done  by 
following  these  instructions. 

Comedones  should  be  extracted  by  the  aid  of  a  watch  key  or  a  comedo 
extractor,  which  can  be  bought  for  the  purpose.  Pimples  should  be 
opened  with  a  fine,  thoroughly  clean  needle  and  the  purulent  contents 
expressed,  after  which  the  face  must  be  shampooed  with  either  the  alka- 
line spirit  of  soap  of  hebra,  which  can  be  obtained  in  any  drug  store,  or 
the  plain,  genuine  green  soap  or  saigo  fluid  soap. 

The  process  of  shampooing  should  be  thorough.  One  should  spend 
ten  minutes  over  a  basin  of  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  lathering  every 
particle  of  the  skin,  then  it  should  be  well  rinsed  in  clean,  hot  water  and 
after  thorough  friction  of  the  surface  and  perfectly  drying  the  same  with 
a  soft  towel. 

When  the  skin  is  harsh,  dry  and  prematurely  shows  signs  of  wrinkles 
it  is  generally  a  sign  that  the  skin  is  not  well  nourished,  in  which  case 
after  shampooing  as  directed  above,  a  towel  ought  to  be  wrung  out  of 
water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  folded  in  three  or  four  thicknesses  and 
applied  over  the  face,  pressing  it  close  against  the  eyes  and  skin  and 
allowed  to  remain  a  few  minutes  in  order  to  draw  the  blood  to  the  surface 
and  open  the  pores  of  the  skin,  then  the  skin  should  be  fed  by  thoroughly 
anointing  it  with  cold  cream,  cocoa  butter  or  olive  oil. 

To  prevent  the  cracking  of  the  hands  and  wrists  and  to  keep  the 
hands  soft  in  the  severest  weather,  they  ought  to  be  soaked  in  hot  water, 
completely  and  thoroughly  dried  over  the  stove  or  register  and  anointed 
with  camphor  ice. 

Glycerine  ought  never  to  be  used  alone,  only  in  lotions,  as  it  has  a 
tendency  to  make  the  skin  harsh  and  dry. 

COLD  CREAM. 

Three-fourths  of  an  ounce  of  sperm,  one-half  ounce  of  white  wax, 
four  ounces  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  one-half  ounce  of  rose  water,  one-half 
ounce  of  glycerine,  one-half  drachm  of  borax,  five  to  ten  drops  of  oil  of 
rose  water;  melt  together  with  moderate  heat,  in  a  granite  dish,  the  sperm 
and  wax,  add  oil  of  sweet  almonds  (do  not  overheat)  dissolve  borax  in 
glycerine  and  rose  water,  and  add  to  oil  and  wax  as  it  begins  to  cool,  then 
whip  thoroughly  in  a  Keystone  egg-beater  or  with  a  wire  egg-beater  until 
it  begins  to  cream,  then  add  oil  of  rose.  C.  O. 

CAHPHOR  ICE. 

One-half  ounce  of  sperm,  one  ounce  of  white  wax,  two  ounces  oil  of 
sweet  almonds  or  cotton-seed  oil;  melt  together  with  gentle  heat,  then  add 


TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES.  560 

one-half  ounce  of  camphor;  when  dissolved  and  partly  cooled  add  four 
drops  of  oil  of  bitter  almonds  and  eight  drops  of  oil  of  mace;  pour  into 
molds.  Druggist. 

GLYCERINE  CREAM. 

Three-fourths  of  an  ounce  of  sperm;  one-half  ounce  of  white  wax, 
four  ounces  of  cotton-seed  oil,  one-half  ounce  of  camphor,  one-half  ounce 
of  rose  water,  two  drachms  of  glycerine,  ten  grains  of  powdered  borax; 
melt  together  the  sperm  and  white  wax,  add  the  oil,  then  the  camphor; 
when  dissolved  add  the  glycerine  mixed  with  the  rose  water  and  borax; 
stir  until  nearly  cold,  then  pour  into  molds.  F.  M. 

EXCELLENT  CREAfl  FOR  THE  COMPLEXION. 

A  cream  that  is  perfectly  harmless,  so  harmless,  indeed,  that  mothers 
need  not  hesitate  to  rub  it  on  infants'  faces,  has  the  juice  of  strawberries 
as  a  principal  ingredient.     The  formula  is: 

One-half  ounce  of  white  wax,  one-half  ounce  of  spermaceti,  two  and 
one-half  ounces  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  three-fourths  of  an  ounce  of 
strawberry  juice,  three  drops  of  tincture  of  benzoin,  two  drops  of  oil  of  rose. 

Be  sure  that  your  druggist  gives  you  only  one-half  ounce  of  the  wax 
and  of  the  spermaceti.  More  than  this  will  make  the  emollient  hard  and 
crumbly.  The  correct  amount  will  give  you  a  cream  of  perfect  con- 
sistency. Take  large,  fresh  strawberries,  wash  and  drain  thoroughly. 
Macerate  and  strain  through  muslin.  Shave  the  wax  and  spermaceti  and 
put  in  a  porcelain  kettle  over  a  slow  fire.  When  they  have  melted  add 
the  almond  oil.  Heat  slightly,  remove  from  fire  and  pour  in  the  straw- 
berry juice.  Fluff  up  quickly  with  an  egg  beater.  When  the  mixture 
begins  to  cream  add  the  benzoin  and  the  perfume.  Put  into  little  jars  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place.  Apply  at  any  time.  Excellent  for  tan,  sunburn,  or 
rough  skin.  L-  C. 

SURE  CURE  FOR  PIMPLES. 

It  requires  self-denial  to  get  rid  of  pimples,  for  persons  troubled  with 
them  will  persist  in  eating  fat  meats  and  other  articles  of  food  calculated 
to  produce  them.  Avoid  the  use  of  rich  gravies,  or  pastry,  or  anything  of 
the  kind  in  excess.  Take  all  the  outdoor  exercise  you  can  and  never 
indulge  in  a  late  supper.  Retire  at  a  reasonable  hour  and  rise  early  in  the 
morning.  Sulphur  to  purify  the  blood  may  be  taken  three  times  a  week — 
a  thimbleful  in  a  glass  of  milk  before  breakfast.  It  takes  some  time  for 
the  sulphur  to  do  its  work,  therefore  persevere  in  its  use  till  the  humors, 
or  pimples  have  all  disappeared.  M.  T.  N. 


570  TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES. 

HOW  TO  OBTAIN  A  HANDSOME  FORM. 

The  foundation  for  a  beautiful  form  must  undoubtedly  be  laid  in 
infancy.  That  is,  nothing  should  be  done  at  that  tender  age  to  obstruct 
the  natural  swell  and  growth  of  all  the  parts.  "As  the  twig  is  bent,  the 
tree's  incline,"  is  quite  a  true  of  the  body  as  of  the  mind.  Common  sense 
teaches  us  that  the  young  fibers  ought  to  be  left  unincumbered  by 
obstacles  of  art,  to  grow  harmoniously  into  the  shape  that  nature  drew. 

It  is  important  that  the  girl  should  understand,  as  soon  as  she 
comes  to  the  years  of  discretion,  or  as  soon  as  she  is  old  enough  to 
realize  the  importance  of  beauty  to  a  woman,  that  she  has,  to  a  certain 
extent,  the  management  of  her  own  form  within  her  power.  The  first 
thing  to  be  thought  of  is  health,  for  there  can  be  no  development  of 
beauty  in  sickly  fibers.  Plenty  of  exercise,  in  the  open  air,  is  the  great 
recipe.  Exercise,  not  philosophically  and  with  religious  gravity  undertaken, 
but  the  wild  romping  activities  of  a  spirited  girl.  Everything  should  be  done 
to  give  joy  and  vivacity  to  the  spirits  at  this  age,  for  nothing  so  much  aids 
in  giving  vigor  and  elasticity  to  the  form  as  these.  A  crushed,  or  sad,  or 
or  moping  spirit,  allowed  at  this  tender  age,  when  the  shape  is  forming,  is 
a  fatal  cause  of  a  flabby  and  moping  body.  A  bent  and  stooping  form  is 
quite  sure  to  come  of  a  bent  and  stooping  spirit.  If  you  would  have  the 
shape  "sway  gracefully  on  the  firmly-poised  waist" — if  you  would  see  the 
chest  rise  and  swell  in  noble  and  healthy  expansion,  give  the  girl  vigorous 
exercise  in  the  open  air. 

And  what  is  good  for  the  girl  is  good  for  the  woman  too.  The  same 
attention  to  the  laws  of  health  and  the  same  pursuit  of  out-door  exercise 
will  help  a  person  to  develop  a  handsome  form  until  she  is  twenty  or  twenty- 
five  years  old.  "Many  a  rich  lady  would  give  all  her  fortune  to  possess 
the  expanded  chest  and  rounded  arm  of  her  kitchen  girl.  Well,  she 
might  have  had  both  by  the  same  amount  of  exercise  and  spare  living." 
And  she  can  do  much  to  aquire  them  even  yet. 

There  have  been  many  instances  of  sedentary  men,  with  shrunk  and 
sickly  forms,  with  deficient  muscle  and  scraggy  arms,  who  by  a  change  of 
business  to  a  vigorous  outdoor  exercise  acquired  fine  robust  forms,  with 
arms  as  powerful  and  muscular  as  Hercules  himself.  I  knew  a  young 
lady,  who,  at  twenty-two  years  of  age,  in  a  great  degree  overcame  the 
deformity  of  bad  arms.  She  began  by  a  strict  adherence  to  such  a  strong 
nutritious  diet  as  was  most  favorable  to  the  creation  of  muscle.  She 
walked  every  day  several  hours  in  the  open  air,  and  never  neglected  the 
constant  daily  use  of  the  dumb-bells.     This  she  continued  for  two  years. 


TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES.  571 

when  a  visible  improvement  showed  itself,  in  the  straightened  and  ex- 
panded chest;  and  in  the  fine  hard  swell  of  muscle  upon  the  once  de- 
formed arms.  She  had  fought  and  she  had  conquered.  Her  perseverance 
was  abundantly  rewarded.  Let  the  person,  who  is  ambitious  for  such 
charms,  be  assured  that,  if  she  has  them  not,  they  can  be  obtained  on  no 
lighter  conditions.  H.  E.  F. 

HOW  TO  REDUCE  THE  PORES  OF  THE  SKIN. 

An  excellent  astringent  wash  which  will  make  enlarged  pores  smaller 
and  less  unsightly  is  made  by  putting  into  a  one-half-pint  bottle  one  and 
one-half  ounces  of  cucumber  juice,  half  filling  the  bottle  with  elder-flower 
water,  adding  one  ounce  of  eau  de  cologne,  and  shaking  well;  adding  one- 
half  ounce  of  simple  tincture  of  benzoin  and  filling  bottle  with  elder- 
flower  water.  Get  the  juice  of  the  cucumbers  by  slicing,  without  peeling, 
adding  a  suggestion  of  water,  boiling  to  a  pulp,  cooling,  and  straining 
through  muslin.  Stimulating  the  functions  of  the  skin  by  a  daily  bath 
with  a  soft  flesh  brush  and  tepid  salt  water  will  make  the  complexion 
clearer.  The  skin  all  over  the  body  is  constantly  undergoing  a  process  of 
decay  and  renewing.  Unless  the  epidermis  is  kept  clean  and  free  from 
the  excretions  that  the  pores  are  continually  sending  out,  this  process  of 
renewing  is  very  much  hampered.  G.  M. 

FOR  A  ROUGH  5KIN. 

You  will  find  camphorated  cream  the  best  emollient.  It  is  very  easily 
made  as  follows:  Take  four  ounces  of  olive  oil,  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
white  wax,  one  ounce  of  sp^ermaceti,  one  ounce  of  lanoline,  one-eighth  of 
an  ounce  of  camphor  gum.  Heat  the  five  ingredients  until  the  camphor 
is  dissolved,  take  off  the  stove,  beat  with  an  egg-beater  until  the  mass 
concretes,  use  as  you  would  cold  cream  or  any  other  unguent.  C.  F. 

TO  CLEAR  A  SALLOW  SKIN. 

The  real  cure  for  a  sallow  skin  must  be  from  within.  One  can,  of 
course,  use  for  the  face  a  whitener  which  will  temporarily  make  it  look 
fair,  pr  can  use  a  face  bleach,  but  the  best  plan  is  to  try  to  remove 
the  cause,  which  is  probably  a  sluggish  liver. 

One  should  not  drink  coffee  or  eat  highly-spiced  food  and  should 
never  touch  pork  or  greasy  dishes.  Plenty  of  ripe  fruit,  oranges,  partic- 
ularly, will  assist  in  clearing  the  skin.  As  a  medicine  take  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  phosphate  of  soda  in  a  glassful  of  hot  water  every  morning  one 
hour  before  breakfast;  repeat  the  dose  at  night  one  hour  before  retiring. 
Continue  to  take  the  soda  for  three  or  four  weeks,  or  as  long  as  required. 


572  TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES. 

OBSTINATE  BLACKHEADS. 

For  obstinate  blackheads  try  the  following:  Four  ounces  of  tincture 
of  green  soap,  four  and  one-half  ounces  of  distilled  witch  hazel;  mix; 
apply  every  second  day  and  wash  off  immediately  with  hot  water.  You 
may  be  obliged  to  press -on  either  side  of  the  blackhead  and  force  it  out. 
The  most  stubborn  cases  will  usually  yield  to  this  treatment.      G.  A.  M. 

WRINKLES. 

If  you  have  lost  any  teeth  that  will  account  for  the  lines,  otherwise 
you  should  not  have  wrinkles  before  sixty.  There  is  no  other  treatment 
that  will  take  the  place  of  massage  for  obliterating  wrinkles.  H.  C. 

CURE  OF  PIMPLES  ON  THE  FACE. 

Hard  red  pimples  are  a  common  and  an  obstinate  affection  of  the 
skin,  affecting  the  forehead,  temples,  the  nose,  chin  and  cheeks;  occasion- 
ally attacking  the  neck,  shoulders,  back  and  chest.  As  they  more  fre- 
quently affect  the  young  and  are  disfiguring,  they  cause  much  annoyance. 
I  find,  in  these  cases,  great  benefit  from  bathing  the  face,  night  and  morn- 
ing, with  strong  salt  and  water — a  tablespoonful  of  table  salt  to  a  teacupful 
of  water:  paying  attention  to  the  bowels;  living  on  plain,  wholesome, 
nourishing  food;  and  taking  a  great  deal  of  outdoor  exercise.  Sea  bath- 
ing is  often  very  beneficial.  Grubs  and  worms  have  a  mortal  antipathy 
to  salt.  Dr.  Stevenson. 

ROUND  SHOULDERS. 

Deep  breathing  exercises  and  light  gymnastics  will  cure  all  of  round 
shoulders  if  they  will  be  persistently  practiced  in.  It  would  be  impossible 
for  me  to  tell  you  how  many  girls  I  have  seen  made  straight  and  robust 
through  the  simplest  exercises  of  this  nature.  O.  L. 

CARE  OF  THE  TEETH. 

The  teeth  ought  to  be  brushed  after  every  meal.  Any  one  suffering 
with  decayed  teeth  ought  to  make  it  a  rule  to  use  a  gargle  of  one  cupful 
of  tepid  water  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  Listerine.  H.  T.  R. 

RULES  FOR  THE  REDUCTION  OF  FLESH. 

Avoid  all  starchy  and  sweetened  food,  all  cereals,  vegetables  contain- 
ing sugar  or  starch,  such  as  peas,  beans,  corn,  potatoes,  etc.  Have  your 
bread  toasted;  sprinkle  it  with  salt  instead  of  butter.  Milk,  I  regret  to 
say,  if  it  be  pure  and  good,  is  fattening.     Hot  water  is  an  excellent  sub- 


TOILET  SUGGESTIOXS  AND  RECIPES.  573 

stitute  for  other  liquids.  Add  a  little  of  the  juice  of  limes  or  lemons  to  it, 
if  )-ou  choose.  Limit  your  sleeping  hours  to  seven  at  the  outside.  Xo 
naps.     You  must  take  exercise. 

If  you  cannot  walk  at  least  five  miles  a  day  and  do  not  wheel,  go  to 
one  of  the  institutions  where  mechanical  massage  is  given.  Several  cf  my 
correspondents  report  excellent  results  from  this  method  of  getting  the 
vigorous  exercise  they  require.  The  system  is  thoroughly  wholesome 
and  not  expensive.  In  reducing  flesh  the  one  fact  to  recollect  is  that  fat 
is  carbon — oxjgen  destro>-s  or  bums  out  carbon.  You  must  consume  the 
carbon  b3-  the  oxjgen  jou  take  through  3-our  lungs.  The  more  exercise 
the  more  oxygen  and  consequent  destruction  of  fat  by  the  one  healthful 
method  of  curing  obesity-.  The  more  starch  and  sugar  jou  eat  the  more 
carbon  to  bum  away.  M.  Y. 

CARE  OF  THE  H.AIR. 

Before  retiring  the  hair  should  be  well  bmshed.  A  stiff  brush  is  best 
for  this  purpose,  as  it  penetrates  the  hair  and  causes  a  healthy  reaction 
and  stimulation  of  the  scalp,  and  the  hair  follicles  thus  have  a  tendencj-  to 
keep  the  hair  from  falling  out  and  prevent  the  common  disease  of  the 
sebaceous  glands,  called  dandruff.  The  care  of  the  hair  includes  a  sham- 
poo once  a  week  with  good,  pure  soap.  German  green  soap  being  the  best: 
then  it  must  be  rinsed  well  and  quickh"  dried.  D.  P. 

HAR.nOMOUS  COLORS  FOR  RED   HAIR. 

Auburn  hair  of  itself  is  beautiful,  but  one  rarei\-  meets  an  auburn- 
haired  girl  who  knows  just  what  color  suits  her  best.  The  girl  whose  hair 
is  of  any  shade  of  so-called  red  must  never,  under  am*  circumstances,  wear 
pink,  red  or  bright  3-ellow.  Those  colors  will  onh'  accentuate  the  reds  in 
her  hair  and  the  contrast  is  exceedingh*  unbecoming. 

She  ma}-,  however,  wear  golden  browns  and  plenty-  of  them.  These 
will  bring  out  the  ruddj-  gold  tints  of  her  hair.  She  may  also  wear  light 
and  dark  shades  of  blue  and  green,  dark  purple,  gray,  white  and  lavender 
with  a  blue  cast.  And  when  properly  dressed,  the  red-haired  girl  is  a  real 
beauty.  O.  G. 

TO  >UKE  THE  HAIR  GROW. 

The  following  remedy  is  exceiien:.  as  eversone  who  has  tried  it  can 
testify.  Have  it  pur  up  at  the  drug-srore.  Sevent3--five  grains  of  beta 
napthol,  seventj'-five  grains  of  hj-drarg  ammon,  two  ounces  of  lano- 
line  and  ungt,  aqua  Rosal  in  equal  parts.  Mix  and  apply  to  scalp  after 
each  shampoo.  Dr.  M.  Bush. 


574  TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES. 

TO  REMOVE  FRECKLES. 

These  are  caused  by  an  over-production  of  pigment  in  the  skin,  which 

seems  to  be  brought  out  in  spots  by  the  action  of  the  sun's  rays.     They 

can  be  made  to  disappear  by  the  use  of  acid  lacti,  glycerina,  of  each  one 

fluid  drachm.     Apply  night  and  morning  with  a  sponge.     Another  remedy 

is  powdered  niter  moistened  with  water  and  appHed  to  the  face  night  and 

morning.  W.  S. 

CURE  FOR  A  BROWN  THROAT. 

When  the  neck  and  throat    have    taken  on    a   brown    tinge   from 

exposure  to  the  sun  or  from  wearing  the  high  stock  collars  so  fashionable, 

it  can  be  remedied  by  using  the  following  paste:  Beat  up  an  ^^g,  add  one 

ounce  of  honey,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  six  drops  of  oil  of  bitter 

almonds  and  enough  fine  oatmeal  to  make  it  into  a  paste.     Use  morning 

and  night.  D.  J.  A. 

TO  MAKE  A  HANDSOME  THROAT. 

To  have  a  rounded  throat,  sing,  whether  you  have  a  "voice"  or  not, 
deeming  the  exercise  valuable.  At  night  wrap  the  throat  in  a  linen  cloth, 
wet  with  scented  oil.  This  will  nourish  the  skin  and  soften  its  outlines. 
Exercise  the  throat  every  day  by  turning  the  head  from  side  to  side  slowly 
but  never  fast.  Try  this  ten  minutes  every  night  and  morning.  Friction 
is  too  rough  treatment  for  ordinary  skins.  If  used  to  prevent  wrinkles 
it  should  be  gentle  and  with  a  little  massage  cream  on  the  fingers. 

Sadie  O. 
FRECKLE  LOTION. 

Four  grains  of  corrosive  sublimate,  twenty-four  drops  of  muriatic  acid, 

three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  lump  sugar,  two  ounces  of  alcohol,  enough 

rose  water  to  make  one-half  pint;  mix  until  dissolved  and  apply  night  and 

morning.  "  R.  T. 

ALMOND    MEAL. 

Six  drachms  of  finely-prepared  almonds,  one  and  one-half  ounces  of 
orris  root,  three  ounces  of  French  chalk,  one  and  one-half  drachms  of  car- 
bonate of  soda,  one  drachm  of  borax,  ten  drops  of  oil  of  bergamot,  six 
drops  of  oil  of  lemon,  three  drops  of  oil  of  orange  flower,  two  drops  of 
tincture  of  musk;  mix  well.  Mrs.  M.  Thomas. 

TOILET  POWDER. 

One-half  pound  of  corn  or  rice-starch,  one  ounce  each  of  orris  root 
and  French  chalk.  Fifteen  drops  each  of  oil  of  lemon  and  oil  of  bergamot, 
ten  drops  of  oil  of  neroli,  two  drops  each  of  oil  of  bitter  almonds  and  oil 
of  verbena.     Mix  well  in  a  mortar  and  pass  through  a  very  fine  sieve. 


TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES.  575 

PERSPIRATION  POWDER. 

One  ounce  of  boracic  acid,  one  drachm  of  burnt  alum,  one-half  ounce 

of  French  chalk,  six  and  one-half  ounces  of  starch.     Perfume  with   fifteen 

drops   each   of   oil   of  lemon   and  oil   of  bergamot.     Mix  well   and   pass 

through    a  fine   sieve.      For  excessive    perspiration   of   hands    and    feet, 

sprinkle  inside  of  gloves  or  stockings,  or  apply  under  the  arms  with  a 

powder  puff.  I   R 

HAIR  TONIC. 

Aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia,  tincture  of  cantharides  and  glycerine; 
use  one-fourth  of  an  ounce  of  each  and  enough  bay  rum  to  make  eight 
ounces.  Louis  M. 

WASH  FOR  ERUPTIONS. 

Take  a  piece  of  gum  benzoin  about  the  size  of  an  English  walnut,  and 

boil  in  spirits  of  wine  till  it  becomes  a  rich  tincture.     Bottle  it.     Wash  the 

face  three  times  a  day  with  fifteen  drops  poured  into  a  glassful  of  water, 

leaving  it  on  the  face  to  dry.     It  will  remove  spots,  eruptions,  etc. 

Mary  R. 
TO  CLEANSE  THE  HAIR  AND  SCALP. 

A  noted  lecturer  on  hygiene  gave  me  this  recipe  and  I  have  found  it 
very  satisfactory:  Into  a  pint  bottle  put  a  spoonful  of  olive  oil  and  add  two 
ounces  of  best  spirits  of  ammonia  or  hartshorn;  shake.  Then  mix  with 
three  ounces  of  alcohol,  and,  when  thoroughly  mixed,  fill  the  bottle  with 
soft  water.  Remember  to  put  in  the  ingredients  in  the  order  named  or 
you  will  have  "stuff"  and  no  chemical  union  at  all. 

To  apply,  take  a  spoonful  or  two  of  this,  with  a  little  warm  water; 
dip  a  sponge  or  rag  in  and  wet  the  scalp  thoroughly,  now  rinse  off  in 
plenty  of  warm  water  and  you  will  be  surprised  at  the  amount  of  dirt, 
though  you  may  have  thought  your  head  perfectly  clean.  For  the  heads 
of  young  infants  it  is  just  the  thing,  as  it  instantly  removes  the  scurf  which 
sometimes  troubles  them,  without  pain  or  trouble.  It  should  be  weaker 
for  a  babe  than  for  an  adult.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Voorhees. 

TO  ARREST  FALLING  HAIR. 

Scalp  massage  will  arrest  falling  hair  almost  immediately.  Be  sure  to 
get  the  treatment  from  someone  who  understands  her  profession. 
Improper  massage  is  worse  than  none.  L.  B. 

HAIR  STRENQTHENER. 

A  preparation  that  has  been  in  use  many  years  and  has  been  proved 
efficacious  for  strengthening  the  roots  of  the  hair  is  made  by  taking  a  pint 


57G  TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES. 

of  bay  rum,  one-half  pint  of  clear  alcohol,  one-half  ounce  of  castor  oil, 

one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of  carbonate  ammonia,  one-half  ounce  of  tincture 

of  cantharides.     They  must  be  thoroughly  mixed.     Excellent  to  promote 

the  growth  of  the  hair.  S.  P 

HAIR  DRESSING. 

A  nice  dressing  for  the  hair  is  cold  tea.  Use  it  every  day  and  a  head 
of  glossy,  luxuriant  hair  wijl  result.     Black  tea  is  the  best.  M.  P. 

HAIR  TONIC. 

A  splendid  tonic  for  the  hair  is  made  of  one  ounce  of  glycerine,  one- 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  eau  de  cologne  (strongest),  one  fluid  drachm  of  liquor 
of  ammonia  (880-882),  one-half  fluid  drachm  each  of  oil  of  origanum,  oil  of 
rosemary  and  one  fluid  ounce  of  tincture  of  cantharides.  Briskly  agitate 
them  together  for  eight  or  ten  minutes,  then  add  one-half  pint  of  cam- 
phor-julep (strongest).  Electricity,  properly  applied,  will  often  do  wonders 
toward  restoring  vitality  to  the  hair.  M. 

GROOMING  THE  HAIR. 

A  writer  in  one  of  our  journals  advances  a  new  idea  with  reference  to 
the  way  in  which  thin  hair  should  be  "groomed,"  as  they  say  in  Paris,  to 
induce  the  growth  and  thickening.  It  is  merely  brushing  the  hair  the 
wrong  way  and  is  done  as  described  below.  It  is  said  to  be  more  beneficial 
than  a  tonic. 

Carefully  divide  the  hair  into  many  small  parts  and  then,  with  a  huge 

and  stiff  brush  begin  the  work.     Holding  the  extreme  end  of  the  strand 

to  be  brushed  in  the  left  hand,  start  at  the  bottom  of  it  and  brush  upward 

toward   the    head.      After  each    strand  has    gone  through   this   process 

smooth  each  hair  back  into  its  original  position.     Follow  this  up  and  brush 

the  hair  in  this  manner  each  night  and  morning.     It  serves  as  a  stimulant 

to  the  sickly  hair.  Frances  Samuels. 

HEAD  5HAMP00. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  froth,  rub  well  into  the  roots  of  the 
hair  Leave  on  to  dry.  Then  wash  the  head  clean  with  equal  parts  of 
rum  and  rose  water.     Rinse  in  clean,  soft  water.  F.  C. 

TO  THICKEN  THE  EYEBROWS. 

If  your  eyebrows  are  inclined  to  grow  thin  in  spots,  a  very  simple 
application,  and  one  that  cannot  possible  injure  them,  is  cocoa  butter. 
A  small  piece  may  be  softened  and  rubbed  over  your  brows  every  night 
with  your  finger,  following  exactly  the  arch  of  the  brow  itself.  R. 


TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES.  611 

TO  CLEAN  HAIR  BRUSHES.  ' 

Dissolve  a  generous  piece  of  washing  soda  in  warm  water,  dip  the 
bristles  of  the  brush  into  it,  rubbing  them  a  little  with  the  hand.  Be  care- 
ful not  to  touch  the  ivory  or  ebony  back  of  the  brush  with  the  soda  water. 
Rinse  in  warm  water,  turn  the  brush  up  on  the  point  of  the  handle  and  let 
dry  thoroughly.  It  is  claimed  that  a  tablespoonful  of  ammonia  will  do  the 
same  amount  of  cleaning  if  dissolved  in  a  quart  of  water.  The  brush 
should  not  be  used  till  dry.  Fannie  Smith. 

MASSAGE  FOR  THE  EYES. 

Whenever  your  organs  of  sight  feel  weak  do  not  rub  them  roughly. 
You  must  not  massage  your  eyes  the  same  way  you  Vvould  the  stronger 
parts  of  the  body.  They  need  help  from  the  hands,  but  this  help  must  be 
administered  in  a  very  gentle  and  delicate  manner. 

John  Quincy  Adams  had  a  way  of  treating  his  eyes  which,  it  is  said, 
preserved  their  vision  to  old  age,  without  the  help  of  spectacles^  This 
was  to  place  his  thumb  and  forefinger  each  upon  an  eyelid  and  gently  rub 
them  toward  the  nose  a  number  of  times  each  day.  The  action  encour- 
ages circulation  of  blood  in  that  locality,  does  away  with  the  tiny  spots 
that  sometimes  float  before  the  vision  and  prevents  that  flattening  of  the 
lenses  which  causes  dimness  of  sight  at  a  certain  focus.  It  is  wonderful 
how  much  good  can  be  done  the  eyes  of  people  of  all  ages  by  using  this 
simple  exercise  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  each  day.  F.  S. 

TOOTH  WASH. 

Two  ounces  of  fine  ground  myrrh,  two  ounces  of  Peruvian  bark,  two 
ounces  of  orris  root.  Put  them  into  a  large  bottle  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  white  sugar.  Fill  the  bottle  with  alcohol,  shake  it  well  and  let  stand  a 
week.  Then  pour  off  all  that  is  clear  into  another  bottle.  Steep  two 
ounces  of  white  oak  bark  one  hour  in  a  quart  of  water.  When  boiled 
down  to  one  pint  add  it  to  the  alcohol  which  has  been  poured  off  the 
myrrh  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  W.  P.  C. 

TOOTH  POWDER. 

A  nice  and  safe  tooth  powder  is  made  of  prepared  chalk,  one-half 
pound;  pulverized  myrrh,  two  ounces;  camphor,  two  drachms;  orris  root, 
ground,  two  ounces.  The  camphor  must  be  wet  with  alcohol  and  all 
mixed  together.  G.  E.  Mills. 


678  TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES 

TO  REMOVE  TARTAR  FROM  THE  TEETH. 

Forty  grains  of  finely-powdered  boracic  acid,  thirty  grains  of  chlorate 
of  potassium,  twenty  grains  of  powdered  guaracum,  sixty  grains  of  pre- 
pared chalk,  one  ounce  of  powdered  carbonate  of  magnesia  and  one  drop 
of  attar  of  roses.     This  powder  will  loosen  all  the  tartar  on  the  teeth  and 

sweeten  the  breath.  G.  H.  A. 

THE  HANDS. 

The  little  housewife  must  pay  constant  attention  to  her  hands  if  she 
would  keep  them  white  and  soft.  If  you  can  afford  it  use  white  castile 
when  washing  your  dishes.  Or,  better  still,  get  a  dish  mop  and  keep  your 
hands  out  of  the  suds  as  much  as  possible. 

Clipping  the  finger  nails,  instead  of  filing  them,  will  cause  them  to 
become  brittle  and  coarse.  Apply  white  vaseline  at  night  to  make  the 
cuticle  about  the  nails  soft  and  pliable.  S.  C. 

TO  WHITEN  THE  HANDS. 

Put  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  into  the  white  of  an  ^^^.  If  lemons 
are  not  at  hand,  a  little  alum  water  will  answer.  Rub  some  of  this  mix- 
ture on  the  hands  at  night,  letting  it  dry  on.  This  lotion  is  equally  good 
for  the  face  and  neck.  L.  F.  P. 

REMEDY  FOR  CHAPPED  HANDS. 

Boil  one  pint  of  rain  water.  When  cold  add  one  heaping  tablespoon- 
full  of  Rochelle  salts,  one  teaspoonful  of  tincture  of  benzoin.  Perfume 
if  desired.  Mrs.  Hannah  Clarke. 

TO  MAKE  THE  HANDS  SOFT. 

Take  one  drachm  of  cubebs,  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  glycerine, 
one-half  ounce  of  spirits  of  camphor,  one  drachm  of  extract  of  heliotrope. 
Rub  this  on  the  hands  on  retiring,  and  wear  a  loose  pair  of  old  kid  gloves. 

Laura  Morse. 

TO  REMOVE  SCALES  FROfl  THE  HANDS. 

Indian  meal  moistened  with  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  is  excellent 
when  the  skin  has  been  roughened  by  work  or  cold;  it  will  heal  and 
soften  them.  Rub  the  hands  thoroughly  with  the  moistened  meal  and 
wash  them  in  warm  water  and  bathe  them  with  glycerine  lotion.  S. 

TO  REMOVE  WARTS. 

These  unsightly  excrescences  can  be  effectually  removed  by  steeping 
or  soaking  a  small  piece  of  beef  all  night  in  vinegar.     Cut  what  will  cover 


TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES.  579 

the  wart  and  tie  it  on.  Strips  of  sticking  plaster  will  fasten  it  on.  Take 
the  meat  off  in  the  daytime  and  put  it  on  at  night.  In  two  weeks  the  wart 
will  die  and  fall  off.  K.  P. 

REMEDY  FOR  TAINTED  BREATH. 

Many  people  are  fond  of  onions  and  yet  do  not  wish  to  make  them- 
selves offensive  by  eating  them.  This  simple  corrective  will  allow  any  one 
to  indulge  their  appetite  in  this  particular:  Dissolve  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  soda  in  boiling  water  and  drink  it.  Orris  root  is  also  good,  and  rose 
pastilles  sweeten  the  breath.  Mrs.  Martha  Ketchum. 

TO  INDUCE  SLEEP. 

When  one  is  overtired  or  worried  and  cannot  sleep,  being  gently 
rubbed  all  over  with  a  towel  wrung  out  of  hot  salt  water  generally  has  the 
desired  effect.  Deep  breathing  in  fresh  air  through  the  nostrils  is  also 
excellent.  T.  O.  C. 

PERFUMERY  AND  SACHET  POWDERS. 

The  use  of  perfumery  is  not  only  refreshing,  but  invigorating,  espe- 
cially in  winter,  when  it  reminds  one  of  the  balmy,  sweet-laden  atmosphere 
of  spring. 

Perfumes  should  never  be  used  to  conceal  any  unpleasant  odor. 
People  of  true  refinement  and  good  taste  will  always  be  known  by  the  per- 
fumery they  use.  Scrupulous  cleanliness  alone  goes  hand  in  hand  with  a 
delicate  odor,  and  whenever  the  use  of  strong  odors  is  detected  that  leave 
an  unpleasant  scent  of  musk  or  civet,  the  suspicion  is  at  once  aroused  that 
the  strong  odor  has  been  employed  to  conceal  an  offensive  one.  N. 

FLORIDA  WATER— HOW  TO  MAKE. 

This  can  be  made  by  any  one  by  the  following  formula:  Oil  of 
lavender,  one  fluid  ounce;  oil  of  bergamot,  one  fluid  ounce;  oil  of  neroli, 
one-half  drachm;  oil  of  orange,  one  drachm;  oil  of  clove,  one-quarter 
drachm;  pure  musk,  one  grain;  cologne  spirit  (q6  per  cent.)  one  quart; 
tincture  of  tonca,  enough  to  give  it  a  color.  Steep  or  let  stand  and 
bruise  fifteen  days  and  filter.  Hattie  Schmidt. 

ROSE  WATER. 

Eight  drops  of  oil  of  rose,  twenty  grains  of  carbonate  of  magnesium 
and  water  to  make  a  pint.  Rub  the  oil  of  rose  with  the  magnesium  in  a 
mortar  and  slowly  add  the  water.     Then  filter.  M.  A. 


580  TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES. 

COLOGNE. 

Use  of  alcohol,  one  gallon;  oil  of  lavender,  twelve  drachms;  oil  of 
rosemary,  four  drachms;  essence  of  lemon,  twelve  drachms;  oil  of  berga- 
mot,  twelve  drachms;  oil  of  cinnamon,  twelve  drops.  Mix  and  shake 
together  three  or  four  times  a  day  for  two  weeks.  Julia  Hoff, 

LAVENDER  WATER. 

Take  four  ounces  of  oil  of  lavender,  one  ounce  of  orris  root,  one  quart 
of  spirits  of  wine.  Mix  well  and  set  aside  for  two  weeks.  Then  strain  it 
through  blotting  paper  and  it  is  ready  to  use.  Sadie. 

HELIOTROPE. 

Six  drachms  of  fine,  fresh  orris  root,  three  drachms  of  fresh  powdered 
rose  leaves,  three  drachms  of  cassia  flowers,  two  drachms  of  tonca  beans, 
two  drachms  of  vanilla,  eight  drops  of  oil  of  bitter  almonds  and  as  much 
extract  of  musk  as  desired.  Grate  the  beans  or  pulverize  in  a  metallic 
mortar,  crumble  the  cassia  flowers  and  buy  the  orris  root  and  the  rose 
leaves  in  the  powdered  form.     Mix  well.  May. 

VIOLET. 

One  and  three-quarter  ounces  of  powdered  orris  root,  one  ounce  of 

cassia  flowers,  one-quarter  ounce   of  gum   benzoin,  two   drops   of  oil   of 

rose,  one  small  drop  of  oil  of  bitter  almonds;  moisten  with  one  drachm  of 

extract  of  violet.  Lizzie  Nieman. 

GERMAN  COLOGNE. 

Take  one  and  one-quarter  gallons  of  alcohol,  one  ounce  of  oil  of 
bergamot,  one  ounce  of  oil  of  lemon,  one-quarter  ounce  of  oil  of  neroli, 
one-quarter  ounce  of  oil  of  sandal  wood  and  thirty  grains  of  camphor. 
Mix  thoroughly,  let  stand  fourteen  days  when  it  is  ready.  Keep  in 
tightly-corked  glass  bottles.  Dr.  P. 

SACHET  POWDER. 

A  charming  sachet  powder  for  wardrobes,  boxes,  etc.,  far  finer  than 
any  mixture  sold  at  the  shops,  is  the  following:  Coriander,  orris  root, 
rose  leaves  and  aromatic  calamus,  each  one  ounce;  lavender  flowers,  two 
ounces;  rhodium  wood,  one-fourth  of  a  drachm;  musk,  five  grains. 
These  are  to  be  mixed  and  reduced  to  a  coarse  powder.  This  scent  on 
clothes  is  as  if  all  fragrant  flowers  had  been  pressed  in  their  folds. 


TOILET  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES.  581 

Nuisd^nces  about  the  House. 

TO  TREAT  RATS  AND  MICE. 

When  these  pests  of  the  kitchen  are  troublesome,  and  "puss"  is  not 
on  duty,  they  may  be  soon  disposed  of  by  the  following  strategy:  Put  a 
barrel  with  a  little  meal  in  it,  in  a  place  where  they  "most  do  congregate." 
After  having  been  fed  long  enough  to  relieve  the  "oldest  and  most  expe- 
rienced rat"  of  his  suspicions,  fill  the  barrel  one-third  or  one-half  full  with 
water,  and  sprinkle  the  meal  two  or  three  inches  deep  on  the  top  of  it. 
In  some  cases  a  dozen  or  more  are  thus  caught  in  a  night.  J.  T. 

TO  DESTROY  MOTHS. 

Forty  ounces  of  alcohol,  five  ounces  of  tincture  of  capsicum,  one 
ounces  of  napthalene,  one  ounce  of  phenol,  one-half  ounce  of  menthol, 
one-half  ounce  of  oil  of  lemon  grass;  mix  and  filter.  To  be  used  in  the 
form  of  a  spray,  by  means  of  an  atomizer,  where  the  moths  are  found. 

TO  KILL  COCKROACHES. 

An  infallible  means  of  destroying  black  beetles  and  cockroaches  is  to 
strew  the  roots  of  black  hellebore  on  the  floor  at  night.  Next  morning 
the  whole  family  of  these  insects  will  be  found  either  dead  or  dying,  for 
such  is  their  avidity  for  the  poisonous  plant,  that  they  never  fail  to  eat  it 
when  they  can  get  it.  But  be  very  cautious  about  burning  all  the  refuse 
on  the  floor,  for  hellebore  is  a  deadly  poison  to  the  human  family  as  well. 

TO   KILL   COCKROACHES— No.  2. 

The  best  method  to  destroy  cockroaches  is  to  plentifully  scatter  pul- 
verized borax  in  all  places  where  they  appear.  I  have  done  this  around 
the  kitchen  where  there  have  been  thousands  and  killed  them  all  in  one 

night.  L.  Miller. 

BED  BUG  EXTERMINATOR.. 

One-half  ounce  of  corrosive  sublimate,  five  ounces  of  boiling  water, 

two   drachms   of  hydrochloric   acid.     Dissolve   and   add   one-half  pint  of 

alcohol.      Very  poisojwus.     Apply  with  a  feather  in   cracks   and   crevices 

of  beds,  etc.     A  positive  preventive  of  bed  bugs.  F.  R. 

BED  BUG  EXTERMINATOR— No.  2. 

The  best  method  ever  tried  to  kill  bed  bugs  is  to  thoroughly  saturate 
the  bedstead  with  common  coal  oil  (kerosene).  Repeat  two  or  three 
times.  Iron  beds  are  much  better  than  wood  because  bugs  cannot  hide 
themselves.  L.  B. 


MMm. 


THE  training  of  children  is  a  preparation  for  the  gravest  and  most 
important  relations  of  life;  and  upon  the  character  of  our  home 
life  must  rest  the  well  being  of  our  nation,  and  the  permanence  of  all  our 
institutions." 

While  some  parents  still  endorse  the  old  saying,  that  children  should 
be  seen  and  not  heard,  I  say,  make  their  life  happy.  They  are  young  but 
once.  What  one  of  you  has  ever  forgotten  the  day  that  your  mother 
made  you  a  Christmas  or  a  Birthday  cake  and  decorated  it  with  goodies. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  mothers  who  desire  to  specially  please  the 
little  folks,  we  add  some  dishes  that  are  unique,  tasteful  and  "darling,"  as 
some  boys  and  girls  have  called  them. 

COLONIAL   HATS. 

One  large  cup  of  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Mix  well.  Put  tablesoonfuls  of  this  mixture  on  rounds  of  piecrust  from  six 
to  seven  inches  in  diameter  and  very  thinly  rolled.  Fold  together  from 
three  directions,  so  that  the  shape  will  resemble  a  George  Washington 
hat.  Press  the  edges  so  firmly  together  that  none  can  escape.  Lay  in 
baking  pan,  brush  over  with  milk  in  which  a  little  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Bake  twenty  minutes.  Lillie  Tibbits. 

NUT  CARTOONS. 

Take  the  desired  number  of  English  walnuts,  Brazilian  nuts,  hickory 
nuts  and  peanuts  and  with  gold  and  colored  paints  decorate  the  shells  in 
fantastic  styles.  With  a  little  color  they  can  be  converted  into  all  sorts 
of  men  and  women — white,  black  and  mongolian,  wearing  all  sorts  of  cos- 
tumes, from  gold  lace,  beads  and  jewels,  to  silks,  feathers,  furs,  etc.  (Very 
pretty  for  parties.)  Mrs.  D.  Z.  Brooks. 

585J 


BIRTHDAY  PARTIES.  583 

OLIVES   A    LA    NATURAL   HI5T0RY. 

Take  the  desired  number  of  olives  and  into  one  side  stick  four  cloves 
and  at  the  end  another  and  you  have  a  partially  constructed  animal  rep- 
resenting an  ant-eater.  Now  add  another  clove  for  the  head,  and  on  the 
end  put  a  bit  of  another  olive,  and  you  have  the  animal  complete  and 
standing  on  his  feet.  The  back  can  be  decorated  as  fancy  dictates. 
According  to  the  arrangement  and  length  of  the  feet,  head  and  tail,  other 
animals,  and  even  birds,  can  be  made.     (Fine  for  children's  parties.) 

Mrs,  a.  E.  Fowler. 

LITTLE   PIGS   IN   BLANKETS. 

(Try  them.) 

Take  one  quart  of  good-sized  oysters,  wash  and  drain.  Now  beat  up 
an  ^^^,  add  to  it  a  little  milk  and  salt.  Dip  each  oyster  separately  into 
the  ^^^  and  roll  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  then  roll  up  in  a  thin  slice 
of  bacon.  Hold  in  shape  by  sticking  a  toothpick  through  it.  Drop  in 
hot  pan  and  fry  brown.     (Fine  for  special  suppers.) 

Mrs.  a.  E.  Fowler. 

EQQ   NESTS   ON  TOAST. 

(Nice  for  Easter  Supper.) 

Six  eggs,  six  slices  toast,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons butter.  Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks,  beating  the  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth,  but  leaving  the  yolks  whole  in  the  half  shells.  Put  the  salt 
in  the  whites,  and  when  beaten  heap  on  the  toast.  Make  a  depression  in 
each  mound  and  put  into  it  a  moderate  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  yolk  of 
one  ^^g.  Place  the  nests  in  a  moderate  oven  and  cook  for  three  minutes. 
Serve  immediately  on  a  hot  dish.  A  spoonful  of  finely  chopped  ham  may 
be  spread  upon  the  toast  before  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Mrs.  Bowerman. 

CONSOMME   ST.    VALENTINE. 

One  pound  of  lean  beef,  one  pound  of  veal,  may  be  cut  into  small 
pieces,  and  placed  in  a  kettle  where  two  tablespoons  of  butter  have  been 
allowed  to  brown.  The  meat  should  be  then  stirred  into  the  butter  until 
it  is  quite  brown.  Cover  the  kettle  and  simmer  slowly  a  half-hour.  Add 
one  quart  and  a  pint  of  water,  and  slowly  simmer  for  three  hours.  Then 
add  one  onion,  a  stalk  of  celery,  and  one  carrot,  and  simmer  half  an 
hour  longer.  Strain  and  let  it  stand  to  cool.  Then  remove  the  fat,  and 
it  is  ready  for  use. 

When  ready  to  serve  heat  and  put  in  each  dish  sippets  of  toast  cut  to 
resemble  such  letters  of  the  alphabet  as  spell  St.  Valentine.  Alphabetical 
crackers  can  be  bought  for  this  purpose  if  preferred. 


INDEX 


PAGE 

Beverages,  Coffee,  Tea  and  Cocoa 363 

After-dinner  Coffee 365 

Acidulated  Alkali 371 

A  Refreshing  Summer  Drink 370 

Brandy,  Blackberry 373 

Buttermilk 369 

Buttermilk,    Iced 369 

Chocolate  Glace 368 

Chocolate,  Healthful 366 

Chocolate,  Plain 366 

Chocolate,  Vienna  Style 367 

Chocolate,  with  Condensed  Milk 367 

Cocoa  367 

Cocoa  Made  from  Shells 368 

Coflfee,  Acorn 365 

Coffee,  Black 365 

Coffee,  Barley 540 

Coffee,  Crust 365 

Coffee,  Drip 365 

Coffee,  Healthfulness  of 364 

Coffee,  How  to  Make 364 

Coffee,  Iced 365 

Coffee,  Oatmeal 540 

Coffee,  Postum  Food 368 

Coffee,  with  Whipped  Cream 365 

Cordial,  Blackberry 373 

Currant  Water 370 

Egg-Nog 369,  542 

Grape  Beverage 369 

Grape  Juice 370 

Grape,  Unfermented 372 

Harvest  Drink 372 

Health  Drink  for  Invalids 545 

Imperial  Drink 368 

Koumiss 370,  542 

Lemonade 368 

Lemonade,  a  la  Grape  Juice 372 

Lemonade,  Ginger 369 

Lemonade,  Sterilized 544 

Lemon   Syrup     370,  372 

Mead,  Sassafras 373 


PAGE 

Beverages,   Coffee,    Tea   and    Cocoa. — 
Continued. 

Milk  Shake 368 

Milk  Sherbet 372 

Mulled  Ale 372 

Nectar,  Cherry 374 

Nectar,  Fruit 373 

Nectar,  Welsh 373 

Orangeade 368 

Punch,  Brandy,  Hot 371 

Punch,  Champagne 371 

Punch,  Orange 371 

Punch,  Picnic 372 

Punch,  Roman 371 

Raspberry  Vinegar 370 

Root-Beer,  Hires' 374 

Shrub,  Raspberry 372 

Shrub,  Raspberry,  No.  2 374 

Summer  Drink,  No.  i 369 

Sum.mer  Drink,  No.  2 371 

Tea,  Afternoon 30 

Tea,  Healthfulness  of 364 

Tea,  How  to  Make 364 

Tea,  Russian 364 

Tea,  Sage 541 

Vinegars 374 

Water,  Drinking 363 

Water,  Filtered 363 

Water,  Ice,  Bad  Effects  of 363 

Wine,  Blackberry 374 

Wine,  Currant 374 

Bread,  Biscuits,  Griddle-Cakes,  Etc 145 

Bread,  Brown,  Grandmother's 150 

Bread,  Brown,  Steamed 150 

Bread,  Brown,  Steamed,  No.  2 150 

Bread,  Corn,  Healthful 151,  469 

Bread,  Corn,  Raised 151 

Bread,  Corn,  Steamed 152 

Bread,  Entire  Wheat,  from  Compressed 
Yeast 149 


584 


INDEX 


585 


Bread,    Biscuits,    Griddle-Cakes.  Etc. — 
Cojititiued. 

Bread,  Entire  Wheat,  Steamed 151 

Bread,  Entire  "Wheat,  without  Yeast  . .  151 

Bread,  Graham 151 

Bread,  Home-Made,  Hop  Yeast 147 

Bread,  Home-made  Hop  Yeast,  No.  2.  147 

Bread.  Indian 151 

Bread,  Made  from  Dry  Yeast 143 

Bread,  Made  from  Yeast  Foam 14S 

Bread,  Potato 149 

Bread,  Rice 150 

Bread,  Salt  Rising 143 

Bread,  Widow's 151 

Bread,  Yeast,  withont  Kneading 147 

Good  Bread — Easy  to  Make 145 

How  to  Keep  Flonr 146 

Yeast,  Bottled 146 

Yeast,  Potato 147 

Biscuits,  Rolls,  Muffins,  Etc. 

Biscuits,  Abemethy 1 59 

Biscnits,  Arrowroot 159 

Biscuits,  Baldng-Powder 152,  469 

Biscuits,  Chocolate 159 

Biscuits,  Entire  Wheat  Drop 15S 

Biscuits,  Fruit 467 

Biscuits,  Rice,  Pan-American  Style ...  1 59 

Biscuits,  Soda 15S 

Buns 156 

Cake,  Coffee...:T...T. 15S 

Cake,  Co5ee,  No.  2 15  S 

Crackers,  Entire  Wheat 160 

Crackers,  Sweet 160 

Fritters,  Apple 166 

Fritters,  Banana 166 

Fritters,  Com 466 

Fritters,  Com,  No.  2 466 

Fritters,  Flaked  Rice 467 

Fritters,  Vanilla 166 

Gems.  Entire  Wheat 156 

Gems,  Graham 155 

Gems,  Graham,  No.  2 155 

Gems,  Wheat 156 

Griddle-Cakes,  Breakfast 163 

Griddle-Cakes,  Buckwheat 161 

Griddle-Cakes,  Com 163 

Griddle-Cakes,  Feathery  Flapjacks  . . .  161 

Griddle-Cakes,  Flannel 162 

Griddle-Cakes,  Indian 162 

Griddle-Cakes.  Rice i6i 

Griddle-Cakes,  Velvet 163 

Hastv  Tea  Cake i6i 


Biscuits,  Rolls,  Muffins,  Eic.—Contirid. 

Jolly  Boys 164 

Johnny  Cake 153 

Johnny  Cake,  Old-fashioned 153 

Mu£ns,   Berry 1 54 

Muffins,  Breakfast 155 

Muffins,  Buttermilk 1 55 

Muffins,  Chicago 155 

Muffins,  Com 152 

Muffins,  Com,  No.  2 1 52 

Muffins,  Cream 153 

Muffins,  English 153 

Muffins,  Entire  Wheat 154 

Muffins,  Graham 155 

Muffins,  Honey 153 

Muffins,  Ko-nut 469 

Muffins,  Milk 155 

Muffins,  Mother's  Tea 134 

Muffins,  Rice 467 

Muffins,  Rye 154 

Muffins,  Rye,  New  York  Style 154 

Muffins,  Superior 155 

Muffins,  Whole  Wheat 154 

Oatmeal  Cake 160 

Pancakes,  Adam's  Ale  (Water) 163 

Pancakes,  Au  Naturel 162 

Pancakes,  English 162 

Pancakes,  French 163 

Pancakes,  New  England 262 

Pancakes,  Rice 162,  470 

Pancakes,  Snow 164 

Pone,  Lotiisiana  Rice 153 

PopMJvers,  Illinois 156 

Pretzels 161 

Rolls,  Cereal 470 

Rolls,  Cinnamon 157 

RoHs,  English  Breakfast 157 

Rolls,  Spiced 157 

Rolls,  Tea 157 

Rusk,  Delidons  Hot   153 

Scones 165 

Shortbread,  Scotch 156 

Sally  Lunn,  without  Yeast 157 

Sally  Lunn,  with  Yeast 469 

Shortcake,  Breakfast 471 

Shortcake,  Peach 165 

Shortcake,  Plain 165 

Shortcake,  Strawberry 165 

Shortcake,  Strawberry,  Na  2   166 

Wafers,  Wheat  Meal 470 

Wafers,  Chocolate 160 

Waffles,  Hominy 164 


o8G 


INDEX 


Biscuits,  Rolls,  Muffitis,  Etc.  — Continued. 

Waffles,  Plain 164 

Waffles,  Rice 165 

Waffles,  Soft 165 

Waffles,  Wilhelm 164 

Brine 416 

Carving 45 

Beef,  Hind-Quarter 50 

Beef,  Fore-Quarter 5t> 

Beef,  Sirloin  Roast 47 

Beef,  Tenderloin  Roast 47 

Birds,  Roast 49 

Fish,  Baked 46 

Fowl,  Roast 49 

Ham,  Boiled 49 

Helping  to  Gravy 49 

How  to  Carve  Gracefully 45 

How  to  Sit  When  Carving 46 

Knife,  The 46 

Lamb,  Fore-Quarter  of 48 

Lamb,  Hind-Quarter 51 

Mutton,  Leg  of 49 

Mutton,  Saddle  of 51 

Turkey,  Roast 49 

Veal,  Breast  of 48 

Veal,  Fore-Quarter  of 52 

Veal,  Hind-Quarter  of 52 

Catsups — See  "Relishes  and  Catsups". . .  ,   426 

Cakes  (Loaf) 

Cake,  without  Butter  or  Eggs  236 

General  Remarks 231 

Temperature  of  Oven 231 

To  Put  a  Cake  Together 231 

Cake,  Angel 241 

Cake,  Angel  Food 241 

Cake,  Beautiful 362 

Cake,  Black 235 

Cake,  Black  Fruit 243 

Cake,  Bonsalina 245 

Cake,  Boston  Tea 246 

Cake,  Bread  (Raised)  237 

Cake,  Bride 241 

Cake,  Campaign 237 

Cake,  Chocolate  Glace 239 

Cake,  Chocolate  Loaf 239 

Cake,  Chocolate  Marble 238 

Cake,  Cinnamon,  Mrs.  Lott's 246 

Cake,  Cocoa 245 

Cake,  Cocoanut  Loaf  (Two  Eggs)  ....  238 
Cake,  Cocoanut  Loaf,  No.  2 240 


Cakes  (Loaf) — Continued. 

Cake,  Cocoanut  Loaf,  No.  3 246 

Cake,  Coffee 247 

Cake,  Convention 242 

Cake,  Corn-Starch 244 

Cake,  Date 246 

Cake,  Dried  Apple 235 

Cake,  Feather 236 

Cake,  Fig 235 

Cake,  Fruit,  Plain 247 

Cake,  Fruit  (Plantation  Recipe) 234 

Cake,  Fruit,  Southern 234 

Cake,  Thanksgiving  Fruit 239 

Cake,  Geranium 234 

Cake,  Gingerbread,  Chocolate 248 

Cake,  Gingerbread,  Molasses 248 

Cake,  Gingerbread,  Plain,  No.  i 248 

Cake,  Gingerbread,  Soft,  No.  2 248 

Cake,  Gingerbread,  Soft,  No.  i 247 

Cake,  Gingerbread,  Soft  (Excellent)  . .  248 

Cake,  Gold 239 

Cake,  Gold,  No.  2 243 

Cake,  Graham    235 

Cake,  Harrison 239 

Cake,  How  to  Bake 231 

Cake,  Honey 235 

Cake,  Lemon    244 

Cake,  Lincoln 236 

Cake,  Maple  Sugar 234 

Cake,  Marble  (Brown  and  White) 243 

Cake,  Mother's  Tip-Top 235 

Cake,  Mountain 246 

Cake,  Newport 240 

Cake,  Nut,  Plain 247 

Cake,  Nut,  Sour  Cream 246 

Cake,  Orange 244 

Cake,  Picnic 247 

Cake,  Pork 238 

Cake,  Pork,  No.  2 240 

Cake,  Pound 242 

Cake,  '  'Rebecca" 236 

Cake,  Scripture    236 

Cake,  Seed,  Old-fashioned 244 

Cake,  Silver 239 

Cake,  Sponge,  Cheap 245 

Cake,  Sponge,  Hot  Water 245 

Cake,  Sponge,  Ideal 244 

Cake,  Sponge,  Velvet 243 

Cake,  Stolla  (Raised) 237 

Cake,  Sunshine    243 

Cake,  Tip-Top,  Mother's 235 

Cake,  Washington 238 


INDEX 


587 


Cakes  (Loaf) — Contitiued. 

Cake,  Watermelon 240 

Cake,  White  Lily 237 

Cake,  White  Loaf 236 

Cake,  White  Sponge 237 

Cake,  without  Butter  or  Eggs 236 


Cakes  (Layer) 
Cake,  Banana 
Cake 


Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake^ 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 


254 


Banana,  No.  2 260 

Birthday  (Leroy's) 261 

Chocolate 256 

Chocolate  Caramel 260 

Chocolate  Caramel,  No.  2 260 

Chocolate  Cinnamon 259 

Chocolate  Cream 251 

Chocolate  White 259 

Cocoanut  (Candy  Filling) 259 

Cocoanut  Cream 253 

Cocoanut  White  (Yellow  Filling)  254 

Dandy  (Ohio  Recipe) 252 

Devil's  Food  (Fit  for  Angels)  .  .  255 

Fruit  (Michigan  Recipe) 253 

Huckleberry 254 

Ice-Cream 253 

Illinois 252 

Inexpensive 256 

Maple 252 

Marshmallow 253 

Maud  S 260 

Minnehaha 252 

Orange 255 

Orange,  No.  2 .   261 

Peach 262 

Perfection 255 

Pineapple 251 

Prairie 250 

Roll,  Jam 262 

Roll,  Jelly 256 

Roll,  Jelly,  No.   2 261 

Strawberry 254 

Tutti-Frutti 255 

Washington 261 

Whipped  Cream    251 

Whipped  Cream,  No.  2 261 


Cakes  (Individual) 

Almond  Squares 266 

Bannocks ....    268 

Blackberry 263 

Blueberry 263 

Cinnamon  Rolls 267 

Coffee    265 


Cakes  (Individual) — Continued. 

Easter 263 

Eclairs,  Chocolate 263 

English  Wafers 266 

Ginger 264 

Gingerbread,  Chocolate 265 

Jumbles,  Almond 26S 

Jumbles,  Plain 268 

Jumbles,  Plain,  No.  2 268 

Jumbles,  Rock  Crystal 269 

Kisses,  Chocolate 277 

Kisses,  Cocoanut 277 

Macaroons,  Almond 277 

Macaroons,  a  la  Italienne 264 

Macaroons,  Nut 362 

Marguerites 267 

Marguerites,  No.  2 267 

Nut  Bars 268 

Palm  (for  Easter) 262 

Peach 263 

Pepper  Nuts  (German) 266 

Spice 265 

Spiders  (German) 266 

Sponge 265 

Sprengela  (German) 266 

Strawberry 263 

Tea 265 

Tea,  Every  Day 266 

Tea,  Wafers 267 

Cookies 

Cocoanut 270 

Chocolate 271 

Excellent 269 

Five  Cent 273 

Ginger,  Fairy 269 

Ginger,  Old-fashioned 2  72 

Ginger,  LTp-to-date 270 

Ginger,  No.  i 270 

Ginger,  No.  2 270 

Ginger  Snaps 272 

Ginger  Snaps,  No.  2 272 

Ginger  Snaps,  No.  3 272 

Ginger  Snaps,  New  York 272 

Health 272 

Hermits 269 

Holland 269 

Molasses  273 

Molasses,  No.  2 273 

Oatmeal 269 

Sand 273 

Scotch 271 


588 


INDEX 


Cookies — Coiitmued. 

Sugar,  Plain 271 

Sugar,  Who  Can  Beat?. 271 

Sugar  (Fine) 271 

Sugar,  No.  4 271 

Doughnuts 

Doughnuts,  Plain 273 

Doughnuts,  Plain,  No.  2 273 

Doughnuts,  Every-Day 277 

Doughnuts,  Iowa 274 

Doughnuts,  Nebraska 274 

Doughnuts,  Norwegian 274 

Doughnuts,  Selected 274 

Doughnuts,  Sour  Cream 277 

Doughnuts,  Whole  Wheat 277 

Doughnuts,  Yeast 274 

Krullers  (German) 277 

Spiders 266 

Cake  Ftllings 

Apple  Filling 250 

Banana  Filling 250 

Candy  Filling 259 

Caramel  Filling 249 

Chocolate  Filling 249 

Chocolate  Filling,  No.  2 249,  260 

Chocolate  Filling,  No.  3 250 

Cocoanut  Cream  Filling 253 

Dandy  Ohio  Filling 252 

Devil's  Food  (Fit  for  Angels) .  256 

Fig  Filling 250 

Fruit  Filling 250,  253 

Heather  Filling 249 

Huckleberry  Filling  254 

Ice-Cream  Filling 253 

Illinois  Filling 252 

Marshmallow  Filling    253 

Nut  Filling   249 

Orange  Filling 249 

Orange  and  Pineapple  Filling 249 

Peach  Filling 250 

Perfection  Filling 255 

Pineapple  Filling 250 

Whipped  Cream  Filling 261 

Yellow  Filling 254 

"Camping  Out" — Special  Dishes 431 

Arranging  Stove . . . .' 431 

Bean  Bake  (Outing  Style) 433 

Birds,  Broiled 432 

Birds  (Hunter's  Style) 432 

Brook  Trout  (Angler's  Style) 433 

Camp  Life,  Provisions  for 431 


"Camping-Out" — Special  Dishes — Cojtfd. 

Camp  Life,  Utensils  for 432 

Clam-Bake 433 

Corn  Cake 434 

Corn  Dodgers 434 

Fish,  Baked  in  Scales 432 

Grouse,  Stewed 432 

Partridges,  Stewed 432 

Pigeons,   Stewed 432 

Potatoes,  Roasted  in  Jackets 434 

Canned  and  Dried  Fruits  and  Vegetables  392 

Ai  Method  of  Canning  Fruit 392 

General  Method  of  Canning  Fruit 392 

Quick  Way  to  Peel  Fruit 403 

Sugar  per  Quart  for  Various  Fruits. . .   393 

Time  Required  for  Boiling  Fruits 393 

Boiled  Cider 395 

Canned  Blackberries 395 

Canned  Blueberries 395 

Canned  Fruit  Juices 395 

Canned  Grapes 394 

Canned  Mincemeat 395 

Canned  Peaches 394 

Canned  Pineapple 394 

Canned  Pineapple  (Uncooked) 394 

Canned  Plums 395 

Canned  Raspberries 394 

Canned    Strawberries,    (Wolverine 

Method)    393 

Canned  Corn 396 

Canned  Peas 396 

Canned  Pumpkin 396 

Canned  Tomatoes 396 

Dried  Fruits  (Hygienic  and  Economical)  396 

Dried  Apples 397 

Dried  Gooseberries 397 

Dried  Peaches 397 

Dried  Plums, . .    397 

Cereals,  and  Farinaceous  Dishes 

Bannocks 471 

Biscuit,  Made  with  Ko-nut 469 

Blanc  Mange 468 

Bromose    483 

Bread,  Entire  Wheat,  Steamed 151 

Breakfast  Shortcake  471 

Chocolate  Biscuit  I59 

Cereal  Rolls 4/0 

Corn  Bread 469 

Corn  Fritters 4^6 

Corn  Fritters,  No.  2 466 


INDEX 


589 


Cereals,  and  Farinaceous  Dishes— C^w/W. 

Corn-Starch  Blanc  Mange 468 

Cracked  Wheat 470 

Cracked  Wheat,  No.  2 47i 

Farina  Gruel 468 

Fruit  Biscuit 467 

Graham  Mush 47i 

Grape  N  uts 466 

Hominj^  Croquettes 472 

Hominy,  Fried 472 

Hominy,  How  to  Cook 472 

Ko-nut  Muffins 469 

Macaroni,  Baked 472 

Macaroni,  Boiled 473 

Macaroni,  with  Tomatoes 472 

Mush,  Corn-Meal 468,  471 

Mush,  Corn-Meal,  to  Fry 468,  471 

Muffins,  Berry I54 

Muffins,  Entire  Wheat i54 

Noodles,  Baked 467 

Nutritive  Value  of  Cereals 466 

Oatmeal,  How  to  Cook 472 

Pettijohn  Mush 47i 

Prepared  Cereals 466 

Rice  Cakes 47o 

Rice  Croquettes 467 

Rice  Cutlets 468 

Rice  Dodgers 47° 

Rice  Griddle-Cakes 47o 

Rice  Fritters 47° 

Rice,  How  to  Cook • 472 

Rice  Muffins 467 

Rice  Patties 467 

Rice,  to  Steam 468 

Rye  Muffins 1 54 

Sago  Porridge 468 

Sally  Lunn 469 

Shredded  Wheat  Croutons 469 

Wheaten  Grits 47° 

Wheat-Meal  Wafers 47o 

Whole  Wheat  Muffins 154 

Chafing-Dish  Recipes 

Anchovy  Toast 205 

Calf's  Liver  and  Mushrooms 210 

Chicken  Croquettes 201 

Chicken  Fritters 201 

Chicken  with  Mushrooms 203 

Clams  on  Toast 209 

Creamed  Chicken   210 

Creamed  Lobster,  k  la  New  York 209 

Creamed  Oysters 206 


PAGE 

Chafing-Dish  Recipes — Continued. 

Creamed  Sweetbreads 202 

Curried  Eggs 202 

Deviled  Eggs 206 

Dried  Beef 206 

Dried  Beef  and  Eggs 210 

Finnan  Haddie 205 

Fricasseed  Eggs  202 

Frogs'  Legs    203 

Lobster,  a  la  Nantes 205 

Macaroni  with  Eggs 204 

Minced  Crab 209 

Mutton,  (Club  Style) 204 

Omelet 205 

Oyster,  Pan  Roast 204 

Oyster  Sautes  . , 204 

Oyster  Stew 204 

Rarebit 203 

Roe  of  Shad 204 

Scalloped  Oysters 205 

Shrimps,  a  la  New  York 206 

Stewed  Veal 209 

Sunday  Night  Eggs 201 

Tomatoes  with  Eggs 203 

Tomatoes,  with  Mushrooms 203 

Veal  Fritters 201 

Venison  Steak 209 

Welsh  Rarebit 202 

Cheese  and  Cheese  Dishes 

General  Remarks 179 

To  Keep  Cheese  Moist 179 

Cheese,  Baked 185 

Cheese  Canapes 182 

Cheese  Cakes,  Lemon 183 

Cheese  Cakes,  Plain 183 

Cheese  Cakes,  Potato 183 

Cheese  Cakes,  Rice 183 

Cheese  Straws 184,  186 

Cheese,  Cottage 180 

Cheese,  Cream 180 

Cheese  Custards 184 

Cheese,  Escalloped 182 

Cheese,  Fondu 182 

Cheese,  Fondu,  No.  2 182 

Cheese  Curds  (German) 186 

Cheese,  Melted,  on  Toast 182 

Cheese,  a  Morning  Relish 184 

Cheese.  Mother's  Cream 186 

Cheese,  Neufchatel 181 

Cheese,  Neuveau,  French  Style 185 

Cheese  Pudding 181 


590 


INDEX 


Cheese  and  Cheese  Dishes — Continued. 

Cheese,  Sage i86 

Cheese  Sandwiches 183 

Cheese,  Toasted 181 

Fromage,  Dressed 180 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 185 

Omelet 180 

Omelet  No.  2 180 

Ramequins  of  Cheese' 181 

Rarebit 203 

Slip 185 

Souffle  184 

Welsh  Rarebit 184,  202 

Coffee  (See  Beverages) 365 

Confectionery  and  Fruit  Coloring 

Candy,  When  Sufficiently  Cooked 352 

Candy,  Healthful 351 

Caramel,  How  to  Make 352 

Sugar,  to  Clarify 352 

Sugar,  Pink  for  Ornamenting 352 

To  Color  Cream 351 

To  Color  Green 351 

To  Color  Pink 352 

To  Color  Red 351 

To  Color  Yellow 351 

To  Flavor  Candy 352 

Candied  Cherries 357 

Candied  Pineapple 357 

Candied  Nuts 357 

Candy,  Almond 354 

Candy,  Almond  Bon-bons 359 

Candy,  Almond  Nougat 356 

Candy,  Almonds,  Sugared 359 

Candy,  Brazilian  Nougat 356 

Candy,  Brazil-nuts  Pralines 357 

Candy,  Butter  Scotch 355 

Candy,  Butter  Scotch  for  a  Cold 362 

Candy,  Butter  Taffy 360 

Candy  Roses 361 

Candy,  Caramels,  Atlantic  City  Recipe  358 

Candy,  Caramels,  Baltimore  Recipe. .  .  354 

Candy,  Caramels,  Chocolate 361 

Candy  Caramels,  Cream  Chocolate.  .  .  .  358 

Candy,  Caramels.  Sugar  Chocolate. ...  358 

Candy,  Chinese  Fruit 354 

Candy,  Chocolate  Creams,  No.  i 358 

Candy,  Chocolate  Creams,  No.  2 359 

Candy,  Cocoanut  Drops 353 

Candy,  Cocoanut  Jap 357 

Candy,  Cough 362 

Candy,  Cough  Drops '354 


Confectionery  and  Fruit  Coloring — 
Contitiued. 

Candy,  Cream  Dates 357 

Candy,  Everton  Taffy 356 

Candy,  Fig,  No.  i 354 

Candy,  Fig,  No.  2 360 

Candy,  Fudges 356 

Candy,  Fruits,  Candied 357 

Candy,  Ice-Cream  360 

Candy,  Lemon  Drops 353 

Candy,  Maple 355 

Candy,  Molasses 360 

Candy,  Nougat 356 

Candy,  Nut  353 

Candy,  Nut  and  Popcorn 362 

Candy,  Nut  Macaroons 362 

Candy,  Peanut  Brittle 354 

Candy,  Peppermint  Drops 353 

Candy,  Potato 355 

Candy,  Ribbon 355 

Pineapple  Glace 355 

Pop-corn  Balls 360 

Macaroons  of  Nuts 353 

Maple  Syrup,  A  Sugar  Off 361 

Walnuts,  Frosted 361 

Custards,  Creams,  Desserts,  Etc. 

A  New  Dessert 327 

Apples  a  la  Empress 324 

Apple  Foam,  No.  i  324 

Apple  Foam,  No.  2 331 

Apple  Island 324 

Astrakhan  Snow 330 

Baked  Apples 323 

Baked  Apples  in  Mold 320 

Banana  and  Lemon  Juice 330 

Banana  Delight 330 

Bananas  and  Cream 323 

Banana  Snowball 327 

Blanc  Mange,  Corn-starch 315 

Blanc  Mange,  Chocolate 318 

Blanc  Mange,  Fruit 333 

Blanc  Mange,  Sea-moss 336 

Blanc  Mange,  with  Cupid  Sauce 316 

Blueberry  Dessert  (Delicious)  337 

Blueberries  and  Shredded  Wheat 334 

Bromangelon,  Snow 323 

Buttered  Apples 323 

Charlotte,  Apple 321 

Charlotte,  Chocolate 318 

Charlotte,  Orange 316 

Charlotte,  Peach 317 


INDEX 


691 


Custards,  Creams,  Desserts,  Etc. — Cont'd. 

Charlotte,  Raspberry 316 

Charlotte  Russe  with  Pineapple 332 

Chestnuts,  Dessert  of 322 

Chocolate  Frappe 314 

Chocolate  Mousse 320 

Chocolate  Profiteroles 319 

Coffee  Jelly 312 

Coffee  Mold 312 

Compote  of  Cherries 337 

Compote  of  Pears 327 

Compote  of  Pineapple 316 

Corn-starch  Mold  and  Candied  Cherries  321 

Macaroons 277,  264,  362 

Meringue,  Plain 322 

Meringue,  Date 316 

Meringue,  Orange 336 

Meringue,  Peach 314 

Meringue,    Strawberry,    in     Shredded 

Wheat  Baskets 327 

Molded  Prunes 330 

Moonshine   317 

Nut  and  Fruit  Mold 322 

Orange  Ambrosia 323 

Orange  Honey 331 

Orange  Vol-au-vent 335 

Orgeat 323 

Peach  Snowdrift 313 

Peach  Surprise,  No.  i 313 

Peach  Surprise,  No.  2 316 

Peaches,  Crushed 321 

Peaches,  with  Shredded  Wheat 334 

Pears  a  la  Naturel 322 

Pears  as  a  Dainty 324 

Pineapple  Dessert 336 

Prune  Whip 332 

Rhubarb  Dessert 312 

Rhubarb  Sauce 338 

Rice  Mold,  Texas  Style 331 

Rice  Popple 328 

Salted  Almonds 322 

Snowball 313 

Society  Dessert 335 

Souffle,  Chocolate 315 

Souffle,   Oatmeal 312 

Souffle,   Quince 338 

Cream,  Chocolate,  Bavarian 320 

Cream,  Chocolate  in  Molds 318 

Cream,  Chocolate  Renversee 319 

Cream,  Coffee,  Bavarian  316 

Cream,  Date  338 

Cream,  Ginger  317 


Custards, Creams,  Desserts,  Etc. — Cont'd. 

Cream,  Golden 338 

Cream,    Imperial  319 

Cream,  Italian   321 

Cream,  Macaroon,  Whipped 321 

Cream,  Spanish 334 

Cream  Puffs,  No.  i 336 

Cream  Puffs,  No.  2 337 

Custard,  Apple,  Fried 310 

Custard,  Apple,  Plain 310 

Custard,  Brown 311 

Custard,  Chocolate 310 

Custard,  Cream 336 

Custard,  Cup 309 

Custard,  Cup,  Boston 311 

Custard,  Lemon 310 

Custard,  Michigan 309 

Custard,  Morris 311 

Custard,  Plain 311 

Custard,  Rice 310 

Custard,  Royale 311 

Currant  Snow 337 

Dessert  Surpassing  Ice-Cream 317 

Easter  Eggs 3^5 

Eclairs 333 

Fairy  Pudding 313 

Float,  Plain 334 

Float,  Strawberry 3^4 

Floating  Island 3^4 

Flummery,  Currant 331 

Flummery,  Grape 331 

Flummery,  Peach 331 

Flummery,  Raspberry 331 

Frosted  Orange 314 

Frozen  Confectionery 312 

Fruit  Salad,  No.  i 332 

Fruit  Salad,  No.  2 332 

Fruit  Salad,  No.  3 333 

Fruit  Shortcakes 333 

Gelatine  Snow 337 

General  Remarks 30Q 

German  Pancakes 335 

Health  Dessert 333 

Hea's  Nest,  a  Fancy  Dish 333 

Hitnmel  Futter 336 

Ideal 331 

Isjng-glass  Nut 328 

Jelly  Tarts 328 

Lt :: .on  Patties 335 

Souffle,  Strawberry 335 

Spanish  Fruit  Salad 324 

Stewed  Apples 322 


592 


INDEX 


Custards, Creams,  Desserts,  Etc. — Confd. 

Strawberries  with  Shredded  Wheat.  ...  334 

Strawberry  Delight 328 

Tapioca  and  Strawberries 330 

Trifle,  Apple 329 

Trifle,  Fruit 329 

Trifle,  Gooseberry 329 

Trifle,  Grape 329 

Trifle,  Lemon 329 

Trifle,  Peach 329 

Trifle,  Pineapple 329 

Vanity  Fair 313 

Dairy 

Butter  Making 531 

Brine,  to  Preserve  Butter 531 

Care  of  Pans  and  Cans 531 

Cheese,  How  to  Make 179 

Cheese,  Cream 180 

Cheese,  Cottage 1 80 

Cheese,  Sage 186 

Slip 185 

Cheese  Dishes 180,  186 

When  to  Skim  Cream 531 

To  Make  Good  Butter 531 

Dinner  Giving 

Afternoon  Teas 30 

A  Good  Dinner  with  Moderate  Means.  20 

Arranging  the  Table 20 

Arranging  Guests  at  a  Table 19 

Bonbonnieres ■. 27 

Country  Dining-Rooms 22 

Crystal,  Dining-Room 22 

Dinner  a  la  Russe ■ 23 

Dinner  Table  Decorations 21 

Dinner  Table  Novelties 21 

Etiquette,  Table 24 

Favors  at  a  Dinner 27 

Good  Humor  at  Dinner 20 

Harmony  of  Colors 20 

Holiday  Dining-Room  and  Table 22 

Home  Dinner,  The 28 

Home  Luncheon  Menu 30 

Informal  Dinner 23 

Informal  Dinner  Courses 23 

Lighting  the  Table 21 

Luncheons 29 

Modern  Home  Luncheons 29 

Reply  to  an  Invitation  to  Dinner 20 

Russian  Tea 30 

Scotch  Tea 30 


Dinner  Giving — Continued. 

Serving  the  Dinner 23 

"Setting"  the  Table 20 

Special  Menus 32 

Special  Menus,  St.  Patrick's  Day 32 

Special  Menus,  Easter  Sunday 33 

Special  Menus,  Fourth  of  July 34 

Special  Menus,  Halloween 35 

Special  Menus,  Thanksgiving  Day. ...  36 

Special  Menus,  Christmas 37 

Special  Menus,  St.  Valentine's  Day. . .  38 

Special  Menus,  Washington's  Birthday  39 

Supper  Parties 31 

The  Clever  Host  and  Hostess 19 

Dumplings  and  Puddings 279 

Dyeing  and  Coloring 

Butternut  Bark  as  a  Dye 532 

Family  Dyes 532 

Preparing  Goods  for  Dyeing 531 

Treatment  of  Goods  after  Dyeing  ....  531 

To  Color  Tan 532 

To  Color  Lilac 532 

To  Color  Scarlet 532 

To  Color  Blue 532 

To  Color  Cotton  Blue S34 

To  Color  Purple 533 

To  Color  Green 533,  534 

To  Color  Salmon 533 

To  Color  Sky  Blue 533 

To  Color  Yellow 533 

To  Color  Brown 533 

To  Color  Black 534,  535 

To  Color  Crimson 534 

To  Color  Claret 535 

To  Dye  Furs 535 

To  Bleach  Goods 534 

Walnut  Bark  as  a  Dye 532 

Economics  for  the  House 

Care  of  Wooden  Water  Pails 527 

Care  of  Dish  Cloths  and  Towels 527 

Care  of  Kid  Shoes  and  Boots 529 

Cement  for  Aquarium 530 

Cement  for  Cracks  in  Stores 528 

Cracks  in  Stove  Pipes 529 

Furniture  Varnish,  How  to  Make 527 

Indelible  Ink,  How  to  Make 528 

Indelible  Ink,  How  to  Make  No.  2 528 

Polish,  Hardwood  Floor 54;5 

To  Brighten  Matting 524 

To  Brighten  Oil  Cloth 524 


INDEX 


593 


Economics  for  the  House — Continued. 

To  Clean  Grease  from  Carpets 524 

To  Clean  Felt  Hats 528 

To  Clean  Mica 529 

To  Clean  Kid  Gloves 527 

To  Clean  Paint 524 

To  Keep  Glue  Liquid 527 

To  Keep  Plaster  Casts 530 

To  Make  Mucilage  for  Labels 529 

To  Polish  Brass 526 

To  Polish  Copper 526 

To  Polish  Glass 526 

To  Polish  Nickel-Plated  Ware 526 

To  PoHsh  Silver 526,  529 

To  Polish  Tin 526 

To  Regulate  Clocks 530 

To  Remove  Grease  from  Glass 524 

To  Remove  Ice  from  Windows 529 

To  Remove  Rust  from  Steel 526,  528 

To  Remove  Mildew  Stains 524 

To  Remove  Stains  from  China 526 

To  Remove  Stains  from  Marble 525 

To  Restore  Color 525 

To  Restore  Color  in  Fabric 525 

To  Restore  Furniture 525 

To  Restore  Gilt  Frames 525 

To  Rub  Up  Woodwork 527 

To  Stiffen  Crepe  Veils 528 

To  Strengthen  Glassware 526 

To  Treat  Canned  Goods 527 

To  Treat  New  Iron  Ware 527 

To  Scour  Knives 526 

To  Wash  Corsets \..   528 

To  Wash  Feather  Pillows 525 

To  Japan  Tea  Trays 530 

To  Keep  Moths  Out  of  Carpets 529 

Sensible  Way  to  Dust 529 

Eggs  and  Omelets 

Eggs,  a  la  Havana 191 

Eggs,  a  la  Mode 192 

Eggs,  Atlantic  City  Style 199 

Eggs,  Baked  with  Asparagus 191 

Eggs,  with  Celery 199 

Eggs,  Colorado  Style 200 

Eggs,  Columbus  197 

Eggs,  Cooked  without  Boiling 188 

Eggs,  Creamed,  Royal 194 

Eggs,  Creamed,  No.  2 195 

rCggs,  Deviled 19  r 

Eggs,  Deviled,  No.  2 200 

Eggs,  Baked 192 


Eggs  and  Omelets — Continued. 

Eggs,  Dropped 192 

Egg  Butter igi 

Egg  Pastel 192 

Egg  Salmagundi 195 

Eggs,  Served  in  Cups 191 

Eggs  and  Bacon 199 

Egg  Toast 196 

Eggs,  en  Marinade,  French  Style 191 

Eggs,  Escalfados,  Spanish  Style 198 

Eggs,  Fondu,  Canadian  Style 193 

Eggs,  Fondu  au  Gratin,  Canadian  Style  196 

Eggs,  Fricasseed 195 

Eggs,  Fried 194 

Eggs,  Fried,  with  Tomatoes 195 

Eggs,  Hard-boiled,  Served  Cold 193 

Eggs,  Hard-boiled  and  Giblet  Sauce..  193 

Eggs,  How  to  Preserve  for  Winter  Use  1S7 

Eggs,  How  to  Test,  Good  and  Bad 187 

Eggs,  Hungarian  Style 193 

Eggs,  Maitre  d'Hotel 192 

Eggs,  Mejidos,  Spanish 193 

Eggs,  Moonshine ig6 

Eggs,  Nuremburg  Style 199 

Eggs,  on  Toast 196 

Eggs,  Pickled 194 

Eggs,  Pickled,  No.  2 194 

Eggs,  Poached,  Spanish  Style 197 

Eggs,  Potted 195 

Eggs,  Revueltos,  French 192 

Eggs,  Rissoles  with  Ham 193 

Eggs,  Scrambled 197 

Eggs,  Soft-boiled 188 

Eggs,  Spanish  Style 197 

Eggs,  Steamed 188 

Eggs,  Stuffed,  a  la  Hot  Springs 200 

Eggs,  Sunshine 196 

Eggs,  Swiss  Style 197 

Eggs,  to  Preserve  (Method  No.  i) 187 

Eggs,  to  Preserve  (Method  No.  21 1S8 

Eggs,  to  Preserve  (Method  No.  3) 188 

Eggs,  with  Brown  Sauce 195 

Eggs  with  Onion 199 

Egg-Omelet 19S 

Omelet,  a  la  Poulard,  French 198 

Omelet,  Rum 198 

Omelet  Souffle 194 

Omelet,  Spanish 194 

General  Remarks 187 

Tortilla,'  Sweetmeat 196 

Tortilla,  with  French  Beans 199 

Tortilla,  with  Parsley 198 


594 


INDEX 


Farinaceous  Dishes  (See  p.  466.) 

Fish  and  Shell  Fish 

A  Brain  Food 73 

Baked  Fish,  with  Oyster  Dressing 86 

Bass,  Baked 79 

Bass,  Fried  with  Bacon 75 

Brook  Trout 73 

Brook  Trout,  Angler  Style 433 

Cod,  Boiled,  Cream  Sauce 76 

Cod,  Cutlets  of 81 

Cod,  Fresh,  Baked 75 

Codfish,  Fresh,  Creamed 83 

Codfish,  Picked 82 

Codfish,  Salt,   Creamed 83 

Codfish,  Baked 82 

Codfish  and  Potatoes,  Baked 82 

Codfish  Fritters 86 

Cod-Roe,  on  Toast 83 

Cod  Sounds  and  Tongues 86 

Delicious  Lenten  Dish 87 

Eels,  Broiled 82 

Eels,  Fried 81 

Eels,  Stewed 82 

Finnan  Haddie,  a  la  Delmonico 86 

Finnan  Haddie,  Creamed 83,  205 

Finnan  Haddie,  Fried 79 

Fish  Balls 84 

Fish,  Baked  in  Scales 432 

Fish  Cakes 85 

Fish  Cakes,  No.  2 86 

Fish  Chowder 83 

Fish  Chowder,  Boston  Style 84 

Fish  Croquettes 85 

Fish  Croquettes,  No.  2 85 

Fish  Cutlets 82 

Fish  Fritters 84 

Fish  Steaks,  fried 83 

Fish  Turbot 81 

Fish  Turbot,  No.  2 81 

Fish  Turbot,  No.  3 87 

Flounders,  Boiled 79 

Force  Meat  for  Baked  Fish 74 

Haddock,  Baked 73 

Halibut,  Boiled 79 

Halibut  Timbale 85 

Herring,  Scalloped 87 

How  to  Cure  and  Smoke  Fish 88 

Mackerel,  Fresh,  Boiled 74 

Mackerel,   Salt,  Boiled 74 

Mackerel,  Salt,  Broiled 88 

Panada  for  Fish 85 


Fish  and  Shell  Fish — Continued. 

Perch,    Fried 80 

Pickerel,  Baked,  Oyster  Sauce 74 

Pike,   Baked 76 

Pike,  Baked,  No.   2 76 

Red  Herring 80 

Roe  of  Shad 204 

Salmon  Entree 77 

Salmon,  Boiled 76 

Salmon,  Broiled 76 

Salmon,  Creamed 78 

Salmon  Cutlets 80 

Salmon,  Steamed 78 

Salmon  Mold 87 

Salmon,  Molded 78 

Salmon,  Scalloped 77 

Salmon,  Scalloped,  No.  2 77 

Salmon  Turbot 77 

Sardines,  Broiled 80 

Shad,  Baked 78 

Shad,  Broiled 78 

Shad,   Planked,  Baked 78 

Shad  Roe,  Fried 87 

Spanish,  Cod 79 

Smelts,  Fried 75 

Sturgeon,  Boiled 74 

To  Cure  and  Smoke 88 

Turbot 81,  87 

Whitefish,  Salt,  with  Cream  Sauce 88 

Whitefish,  Baked 74 

Shell  Fish 

Clam  Bake  (See  Chap.  "Camping  Out") 

Clam  Chowder loi 

Clam  Fritters 100 

Clams,   Little  Neck 99 

Clams  on  Toast 100,  209 

Clams,  Roasted 100 

Clams,  Steamed 99 

Crab  Croquettes 98 

Crabs,  Deviled 99 

Crab  Farcie 99 

Crab,  Minced 209 

Crab,  Potted 98 

Crab  Scallops 99 

Crabs,  Soft-shell,  Broiled 98 

Crabs,  Soft-shell,  Fried 98 

Frogs'  Legs,  Broiled loi 

Frogs'  Legs,  Fricasseed 102 

Frogs'  Legs,  Fried 102 

Frogs'  Legs,  Stewed 102 

How  to  Cook 89 

Lobster,  a  la  Atlantic  City 96 


INDEX 


595 


PAGE 

Shell  Fish — Continued. 

Lobster,  a  la  Nantes 205 

Lobster,  Boiled 95 

Lobster,  Creamed 96 

Lobster  Croquettes 97 

Lobster  Farcie 97 

Lobster,  Newport  Style 95 

Lobster  Patties 97 

Lobster,  Sauce  for 96 

Lobster  Sausages 97 

Lobster,  Served  Cold 97 

Lobster  Stew 96 

Mussels,  Boiled 98 

Oysters,  Baltimore-French  Style 92 

Oysters,  Broiled,  Philadelphia  Style. . .  90 

Oysters,  Broiled,  Plain 92 

Oyster  Chowder 91 

Oysters,  Creamed,  on  Toast 93 

Oysters,  Creamed,  No.  2 93,  206 

Oyster  Croquettes  .  91 

Oysters,  Curried 92 

Oysters,  Fried,  Mother's  Recipe  for. . .  90 

Oysters,  Fried,  No.  2 90 

Oysters,  Italian  Style 93 

Oysters,  Mock 94 

Oysters,  Pan  Roast 204 

Oyster  Pancakes 92 

Oyster  Patties 90 

Oyster  Patties,  No.  2 91 

Oyster  Pie.  Boston  Style 94 

Oyster  Rarebit 101 

Oysters,  Roast 91 

Oyster  Rolls 91 

Oyster  Sautes 204 

Oysters,  Scalloped 92,  205 

Oyster  Scup  (See  "Meat  Soups") 

Oysters,  Steamed 91 

Oyster  Stew,  Milk  or  Cream 93,  204 

Oyster  Stew,  Plain 93 

Oyster  Toast loi 

Oysters  with  Macaroni loi 

Shrimps,  a  la  New  York 206 

Shrimps,  Creamed 100 

Shrimps,  Creamed,  on  Toast 100 

Shrimps  with  Thick  Sauce 100 

Terrapin,  Diamond-back 95 

Terrapin  Steak 95 

Terrapin,  Stewed 94 

Terrapin,  Stewed  with  Cream 95 

When  in  Season 89 

Fish  Sauces 4^4 


Frostings  for  Cakes  (See  "Icings") 

Fresh  Fruits  and  How  to  Serve  Them 

Apples 449 

Apple  Dainty 447 

Apple  Foam 331 

Banana  Dessert 449 

Banana  Snowball 327 

Bananas  and  Lemon  Juice 330 

Cantaloupe,  How  Served 332 

Chestnuts  Crystallized  with  Caramel. .  450 

Chilled  Watermelon '. 444 

Creain  of  Cherries  446 

Crystallized  Oranges 449 

Crystallized  Lemons 449 

Currants,  Iced 447 

Date  Cream 338 

Figs,  as  a  Dessert 448 

Fresh  Raspberry  Compote 448 

Fresh  Strawberry  Compote 844 

Frosted  Oranges 3 14 

Fruit  Glace 450 

Fruit  Mold 322 

Fruit  Salad,  Spanish 324 

Fruit  Salad,  Cuba  Style 332 

Grapes 445 

Grape  Fruit  Served  in  Basket 445 

Grapes,  Iced 448 

Mixed  Fruits 445 

Molded  Oranges 446 

Molded  Prunes 330 

Muskmelons 446 

Nuts  and  Raisins 446 

Orange  Compote 448 

Oranges  in  Fancy  Shapes 448 

Orange  Meringue 336 

Orange  Salad 447 

Oranges,  Sliced 449 

Oranges  and  Strawberries  in  Basket. . .  445 

Peaches,  a  Dessert  of 449 

Peaches  and  Cream 446 

Pears 445 

Pineapple  Dessert 445.  33^ 

Pineapples  for  the  Table 447 

Plums 444 

Raisins 445 

Raspberries,  Iced 447 

Strawberries  au  Naturel 444 

Strawberries   au  Naturel,  No.  2 444 

Strawberry  Float 314 

Strawberries   with  Cream 447 

Strawberry  SoufHe 335 


596 


INDEX 


Fresh  Fruits  and  How  to  Serve  Them — 
Continued. 

Stuffed  Dates 449 

Stuffed  Dates,  No.  2 450 

Stuffed  Prunes 449 

To  Preserve  Apples  for  Winter  Use  . .  .  444 
To  Preserve  Grapes  for  Winter  Use. .  .  444 
Watermelon,  au  Natural 449 

Game  and  Poultry 103 

Garnishings 

Carrots  as  a  Garnish 424 

Green  Peas  as  a  Garnish 424 

Ham  as  a  Garnish 424 

Olives  as  a  Garnish 424 

Turnips  as  a  Garnish 424 

To  Garnish  Puddings 425 

To  Garnish  Salads 425 

Home,  The 520 

homekeeping  not  housekeeping 438 

Household  Hints 

Avoid  Metal  Utensils 536 

Deodorizer,  A 536 

Papering  Walls 536 

To  Clean  Vinegar  Cruets 536 

To  Crystallize  Grasses 536 

To  Escape  from  a  Burning  House  ....  535 

To  Grease  a  Griddle 536 

To  Make  Sweeping  Caps 536 

To  Keep  Lamp  Chimneys  Clean 535 

To  Remove  Putty  from  Old  Windows.  535 

Varied  Uses  of  Lemon 536 

Ick-Cream  and  Ices 


Are  Ices  Healthful?. 


339 

Flavorings, Convenient  and  Inexpensive  350 

General  Directions  for  Making 339 

Frozen  Bananas 348 

Frozen  Fruits,  Mixed 349 

Frozen  Oatmeal  Flakes 349 

Frozen  Peaches J348 

Frozen  Pineapple  Custard 348 

Frozen  Tutti  Frutti 348 

Ice-Cream,   Baked  Apple 342 

Ice-Cream,  Bohemian 341 

Ice-Cream,  Brick 341 

Ice-Cream,  Cherry 341 

Ice-Cream,  Chocolate 340 

Ice-Cream,  Chocolate  Cream 342 

Ice-Cream,  Coffee 340 

Ice-Cream,  Crushed  Fruit 342 


Ice-Cream  and  lens— Continued. 

Ice-Cream,  Ginger 341 

Ice-Cream,  (Paris  Exposition  Recipe).   342 

Ice-Cream,  Pistachio 340 

Ice-Cream,  Raspberry 341 

Ice-Cream,   Strawberry 340 

Ice  Vanilla 339 

Ice,  without  Cooking 339 

Ice  without  Eggs 339 

Ices,  Apricot 342 

Ices,  Cherry 345 

Ices,  Currant 345 

Ices,  Grape 345 

Ices,  Lemon 345 

Nesselrode  Pudding 347 

Pineapple,  Iced 349 

Pineapple  Julep 350 

Sherbet,  Coffee 346 

Sherbet,  Fruit 346 

Sherbet,  Grape 347 

Sherbet,  Lemon,  No.  i 346 

Sherbet,  Lemon,  No.  2 346 

Sherbet,  Milk 345,  372 

Sherbet,  Orange 346 

Sherbet,  Pineapple 345 

Sherbet,  Pineapple  and  Orange 350 

Sherbet,  Raspberry 346 

Sherbet,  Strawberry 347 

Sherbet,  Turkish 347 

Souffle,  a  la  Vanilla < 347 

Souffle,  Charlotte  Russe,  Frozen 348 

Souffle,  Frozen 349 

Souffle,  Ice-Cream 348 

Icings 

How  to  Make 232 

How  to  Ornament  Cake 232 

Sugar  to  Clarify 352 

Sugar  to  Color 351 

Sugar  to  Flavor 352 

Icing,  Boiled 232 

Icing,  Chocolate 233 

Icing,  Chocolate  and  White 233 

Icing,  Cocoa 233 

Icing,  Date 232 

Icing,  Fig 232 

Icing,  Glace 239 

Icing,  Lemon 233 

Icing,  Maple  Sugar 234 

Icing,  Plain  232 

Icing,  Raisin 232 

Icing,  Vanilla 233 


INDEX 


597 


PAGE 

Infants 

How  to  Feed  Them 55i 

What  to  Feed  Them 55i 

Artificial  Milk 55i 

Drainage  553 

Happiness  of  Children  553 

Home  of  Childhood,  The 5  53 

Milk  to  Resemble  Mother's 55i 

Nurserj-,  The 552 

Nursery  Walls 553 

Ventilation 552 

White  Rubber  Nipples,  Danger  of 552 

Kitchen,  The 520 

Ko-NUT 464 


Laundry,  The 

To  Clean  Gold  and  Silver  Braid 

To  Prevent  Rust  on  Flat  Irons 

To  Remove  Ink  and  Rust  from  Cotton 
To  Remove  Ink  and  Rust  from  Linen. 

To  Remove  Stains  from  Cotton 

To  Remove  Stains  from  Linen 

To  Wash  Cotton  Clothes 

To  Wash  Flannels 

To  Wash  Corsets 

To  Wash  Feather  Pillows 

To  Wash  Blankets 

Soap,  Soft,  How  to  Make 

Soap,  Hard,  How  to  Make  Excellent. . 

To  Make  Starch 

Washing  Fluid,  How  to  Make 


Meats 

Beef,  Boiled,  \%'ith  Cabbage 

Beef  Brain,  Fried 

Beef,  Corned 

Beef  Croquettes 

Beef,  Dried,  with  Cream,  No.  i . 
Beef,  Dried,  with  Cream,  No.  2 . 

Beef,  Dried,  and  Eggs 

Beef,  Filet  of.  Larded 

Beef  for  Winter  L'se 

Beef  Heart,  Stuffed 

Beef,  How  to  Roast,  No.  i . 

Beef,  How  to  Roast,  No.  2.  . . . 

Beef  Kidney,  Stewed 

Beef  Kidney,  Tortilla 

Beef  Kidney,  with  Mushrooms. 

Beef  Liver,  Fried 

Beef  Liver,  No.  2 

Beef  Loaf,  No.  i 


128 


522 
522 

522 
522 
522 
522 
521 
522 
523 
525 
523 
523 
523 
522 


124 

123 

124 

,136 
126 

130 

210 

124 
413 

127 

123 
124 

129 
130 

131 
127 

129 
125 


PAGE 

Meats Continued. 

Beef  Loaf,  No.  2 128 

Beef  Patties,  No.  i 12S 

Beef  Patties,  No.  2 1 28 

Beef  Pie,  with  Potato  Crust 126 

Beef  Pot  Roast 125 

Beef  Scrapple 30S 

Beef,  Spiced 126 

Beef  Stew,  Irish 127 

Beef  Stew,  Spanish  Style 131 

Beef,  Tenderloin  of,  with  Mushrooms. .   128 

Beef,  Tenderloin  of,  with  Oysters 12S 

Beef  Tongue,  Boiled 127 

Beef  Tongue,  Cold 143 

Beefsteak,  Breakfast  Dish  of 130 

Beefsteak,  Broiled 123 

Beefsteak,  Curried 126 

Beefsteak,  Hamburger 129 

Beefsteak,  Rolled 125 

Beefsteak,  Smothered 127 

Beefsteak,  with  Dressing 130 

Beefsteak,  with  Onions,  No.  i 123 

Beefsteak,  with  Onions,  No.  2 125 

Beefsteak,  with  Potatoes,  Roasted  ....   125 

Calf's  Brain,  Fried 12S 

Calf's  Head 136 

Calf's  Liver,  Baked 129 

Calf's  Liver  and  Mushrooms 210 

Calf's  Liver,  Fried  with  Bacon 126 

Veal  Bondinettes 134 

Veal  Birds  144 

Veal  Cheese 135 

Veal  Cutlets,  with  Vermicelli 135 

Veal,  Entree  of 136 

Veal  Loaf,  No.  i    134 

Veal  Loaf,  No.  2    135 

Veal,  Loin  of.  Roast 135 

Veal,  Odd  Bits  of 131 

Veal  Oysters 134 

Veal  Pie,  Baked 134 

Veal  Sweetbread  Salad 213 

Veal  Sweetbreads,  Stewed 209 

Veal  Sweetbreads,  Creamed 202 

Veal     Sweetbread     Croquettes,     with 

Mushrooms 133 

Veal,  Tripe  Stew 143 

Veal,  with  Oysters 136 

Veal,  with  Yorkshire  Pudding 144 

Cornish  Pastry- 144 

Frozen  Meat,  How  to  Thaw 120 

How  to  Broil 120,  123 

How  to  Keep  Meat 137 


598 


INDEX 


M.^ATs— Continued. 

How  to  Keep  Meat  from  Flies 120 

How  to  Select  Meat] 119 

Lamb  Salad 213 

Lamb,  Stewed 133 

Meat  Pie 130 

Mutton,  Breaded 132 

Mutton  Chops,  Broiled 133 

Mutton,  Club  Style 204 

Mutton  Patties 132 

Mutton  Pie 131 

Mutton,  Ragout  of 132 

Mutton,  Roast 131 

Mutton,  Stewed,  Irish 133 

Meat  and  Fish  Sauces 414 

Pork 

Pork  Chops,  Fried 138 

Pork,  for  Winter  Use 413 

Pork,  Ham  and  .Eggs,  Fried 141 

Pork,  Ham,  Boiled 141 

Pork,  Ham,  Cold 143 

Pork,  Ham,  Maryland,  Baked 142 

Pork,  Ham,  Tortilla  of 143 

Pork  Head  Cheese 143 

Pork,  Lard,  to  Try  Out 120 

Pork,  Loin  of.  Roast 137 

Pork,  Pig's  Cheek 138 

Pork,  Pig's  Feet,  Pickled 143 

Pork,  Pig,  Roasted 142 

Pork,  Pigs  in  a  Blanket S83 

Pork,  Saddle  of.  Roast 138 

Pork,  Salt,  Equal  to  Fresh 137 

Pork,  Salt,  Fried 137 

Pork  Sausage,  Bologna 142 

Pork  Sausage,  Cased 141 

Pork  Sausages,  Country 141 

Pork  Sausage  Croquettes 142 

Pork    Sausages,    Frankfort,     How    to 

Cook 141 

Pork  Sausages,  Scrambled  .    142 

Pork  Spare  Ribs,  Roast 138 

Pork,  Tenderloins  of 138 

Pork,  to  Cure  Bacon 413 

Pork,  to  Cure  Hams 413 

Time  Required  to  Boil  Meats 120 

Time  Required  to  Roast  Meats 119 

To  Clarify  Drippings 120 

Meat  and  Fish  Sauces 

Aromatic  Seasoning 423 

Colorings  for  Gravies 423 

Herbs  for  Winter 423 


Meat  and  Fish  Sauces — Continued. 

Sauce  Accompaniments  for  Meats 423 

To  Brown  Butter 422 

To  Brown  Flour 422 

To  Make  Plain  Mustard 422 

To  Make  French  Mustard 422 

Sauce,  Apple 421 

Sauce,  Astrakhan 421 

Sauce,  Bechamel 419 

Sauce,  Bechamel,  White 416 

Sauce,  Blonde  Fish 422 

Sauce,  Brown 416 

Sauce,  Butter 415 

Sauce,  Caper 418 

Sauce,  Celery 419 

Sauce,  Chutney 419 

Sauce,  Cider  Apple 421 

Sauce,  Cranberry 415 

Sauce,  Cream 414 

Sauce,  Curry 415 

Sauce,  Curry-Powder 417 

Sauce,  Drawn  Butter 414 

Sauce,  Egg 418 

Sauce,  Egg,  No.  2 418 

Sauce,  Fish,  Sour 422 

Sauce,  Game 420 

Sauce,  Garibaldi 419 

Sauce,  German 416 

Sauce,  Giblet 414 

Sauce,  Governor 420 

Sauce,  Herb 415 

Sauce,  Hollandaise 419 

Sauce,  Horseradish 420 

Sauce,  Horseradish,  No.  2 421 

Sauce,  Horseradish,  No.  3 421 

Sauce,  Lobster  421 

Sauce,  Mint 416 

Sauce,  Mushroom 417 

Sauce,  Mushroom,  No.  2 418 

Sauce,  Onion 420 

Sauce,  Orange,  Pickle  of 420 

Sauce,  Oyster 415 

Sauce,  Russian 420 

Sauce,  Salmon    416 

Sauce,  Shallot 418 

Sauce,  Tomato 4^6 

Sauce,  Tartar 4^7 

Sauce,  Tartar,  No.  2 4i7 

Sauce,  Tart  Beef 41? 

Sauce,  White 418 

Nourishing  Properties  of  Various  Foods  439 


INDEX 


599 


Nuisances  About  the  House 

Bed-Bug  Exterminator 581 

Bed-Bug  Exterminator,  No.  2  581 

To  Destroy  Moths 58 1 

To  Keep  Moths  Out  of  Carpets 529 

To  Kill  Cockroaches 581 

To  Kill  Cockroaches,  No.  2 581 

To  Treat  Rats  and  Mice 581 

Nuts  and  How  to  Use  Them 

Almond  Candy  354 

Almond  Pudding  476 

Almonds,  Salted    322 

Brazil  Nuts,  Pralines 357 

Bromose 483 

Chestnuts,  Crj'stallized 450 

ChestnutCroquettes 483 

Chestnuts,  Dessert  of 322 

Chestnut  Salad 484 

Com  Pudding 482 

Fruit  and  Nut  Cocoa 483 

Hard  Sauce  of  Nuts 481 

Hazel  Nut  Cakes 481 

Hazel  Nut  Tarts 482 

Nut  Ambrosia 483 

Nut  Butter  Sandwiches 478 

Nut  Bread 482 

Nut  Candy 353 

Nuts,  Candied 357 

Nut  Corn  Pudding 482 

Nut  Croquettes 476 

Nut  Loaf 475 

Nut  Loaf,  No.  2 475 

Nut  Mold 322 

Nut  Sauce 481 

Nut  Sandwiches 482 

Nut  Soup 476 

Nut  Soup,  No.  2 476 

Peanut  Beans 476 

Peanut  Butter  Sandwiches 482 

Peanut  Pound  Cake 478 

Pressed  Protose  Loaf 477 

Protose 483 

Protose  Chops 481 

Protose  Roast  with  Brown  Gravy 477 

Salted  Almonds 478,  483 

Salted  Peanuts 478 

Salted  Pistachio  Nuts 478 

Soup  Stock,  Nut 483 

Sour  Salad  Dressing  for  Nuts 477 

Walnut  Dessert 477 

Walnut  Salad 512,  513 


Parties  for  Children 

Birthday  Cakes 278 

Brownies 278 

Cinderella  Cakes 278 

Colonial  Hats 582 

Consomme,  St.  Valentine 583 

Egg  Nests  on  Toast 583 

Favors 28 

Hen's  Nest 333 

Little  Pigs  in  Blankets 5S3 

Marguerites 267 

Nougat  Candy 356 

Nut  Cartoons 582 

Olives,  a  la  Natural  History 583 

Turtle  Sandwiches 174 

Shredded  Wheat  Baskets  with  Fruit. . .  334 

Stuflfed  Dates 450 

Pastry,  Pies  and  Tarts 

General  Remarks 217 

Gloss  on  Pie  Crust 218 

Good  Pastry,  How  to  Make 217 

Odds  and  Ends  of  Pie  Crust 218 

Oven,  Temperature  of 217 

Puff  Paste,  How  to  Make 218 

Puff  Paste,  No.  2 219 

Puff  Paste,  Fine 219 

Substitute  for  Lard 218 

Pies 

Pie,  Apple  and  Raisin 220 

Pie,  Apple  Custard 222 

Pie,  Apple,  Old-Fashioned 221 

Pie,  Apricot  Custard 222 

Pie,  Banana  Cream 222 

Pie,  Blackberry 223 

Pie,  Butterfly 229 

Pie,  Cheese 229 

Pie,  CherrA 222 

Pie,  Chocolate  Cream 224 

Pie,  Cocoanut  Cream  222 

Pie,  Crab  Apple  Marmalade 223 

Pie,  Cream 228 

Pie,  Cream  Prune 222 

Pie,  Currant 223 

Pie,  Custard 227 

Pie.  Custard,  No.  2 227 

Pie,  Date 225 

Pie,  Deep  Apple 221 

Pie,  Deep  Plum 221 

Pie,  Egg  Mincemeat 228 

Pie,  English  Apple  221 

Pie,  Gooseberry 227 


600 


INDEX 


Pies — Con  tin  ued. 

Pie,  Grape  Marmalade 223 

Pie,  Green  Apple 221 

Pie,  Green  Grape 223 

Pie,  Huckleberry 223 

Pie,  Lemon,  Plain 223 

Pie,  Lemon,  No.  2 224 

Pie,  Lemon,  No.  3 224 

Pie,  Lemon,  Sliced 224 

Pie,  Marlborough   226 

Pie,  Mince 227 

Pie,  Mince,  No.  2 228 

Pie,  Mince,  No.  3 228 

Pie,  Mock  Mince 226 

Pie,  Mock  Cherry 226 

Pie,  New  England  Apple  22 1 

Pie,  Old-Fashioned  Apple 221 

Pie,  Peach   226 

Pie,  Peach,  Creamed  219 

Pie,  Pineapple 224 

Pie,  Plum 226 

Pie,  Potato 220 

Pie,  Pumpkin 225 

Pie,  Prune  225 

Pie,  Raisin 219 

Pie,  Raspberry  and  Currant 220 

Pie,  Rhubarb 226 

Pie,  Rhubarb  Stewed 227 

Pie,  Sliced  Lemon 224 

Pie,  Squash 725 

Pie,  Strawberry 220 

Pie,  Vinegar 226 

Tarts 

Apple  Cheesecakes 230 

Custard  Tartlets 228 

English  Cheesecakes 230 

French 224 

Gooseberry  Pur^e 230 

Green  Gooseberry 230 

Meringue 229 

Neapolitainoes 230 

Sand 230 

Turnovers,  Raspberry 229 

Turnovers,  Cherry 229 

Turnovers,  Gooseberry 229 

Puffs,  O  range 220 

Pickles,  Vinkgars  and  Brines 

General  Remarks 398 

Cucumbers  for  Winter  Use 398 

Cucumbers  for  Summer  Use 398 

Cucumbers,  Spiced 398 

Apples,  Sweet 403 


Pickles 

Beans 405 

Beets 402 

Butternuts   408 

Cabbage,  Sour 405 

Cabbage,  Sweet 405 

Cantaloupe,  Sweet 403 

Cauliflower 406 

Cherries 401 

Chow-Chow 406 

Crab  Apple 403 

Cucumber,  Ripe,  Sour 399 

Cucumber,  Ripe,  Sweet 399 

Cucumber,  Green,  Sweet 399 

Cucumber,  Spiced,  No.  2 400 

Dill 405 

Eggs 407 

English  Bear 406 

East  India 402 

Melon  Mangoes 405 

Mixed,  French  Style 400 

Mixed,  Sweet 400 

Mixed,  with  Dressing 400 

Mother's  406 

Mustard,  English  Mixed 400 

Mustard,  Plain   401 

Mustard,  No.  2  401 

Mushrooms 408 

Onions 403 

Onions  and  Cucumbers .....' 408 

Oysters 408 

Peaches  to  Peel 403 

Peaches,  Sweet 402 

Pears,  Sweet  403 

Pepper  Mangoes 405 

Piccalilli 407 

Piccalilli,  No.  2 407 

Summer 405 

Tomato,  Green,  Sour  404 

Tomato,  Green,  Sweet 404 

Tomato,  Ripe,  Sour 404 

Tomato,  R,ipe,  Sweet 404 

Walnuts 407 

Watermelon  Rinds 402 

Vinegars 

How  to  Make 408 

Beer 409 

Cherry 410 

Cider 409 

Economical 410 

Home-Made 409 

Honey 409 


INDEX 


601 


Vinegars — Continued. 

Hf rseradish 410 

Maple  Sugar  410 

Raspberry- 410 

Sorghum 409 

Spiced  410 

Tarragon 409 

Pickle  or  Brine 

To  Cure  Bacon 413 

To  Cure  Beef 413 

To  Cure  Hams 413 

To  Cure  Tongue 413 

To  Preser\'e  Beef 413 

To  Salt  Pork  413 

Poultry  and  Game 103 

Birds,  Broiled 432 

Birds,  Reed 112 

Birds,  Snow 112 

Birds,  Small,  Roast 114 

Capon 118 

Chicken,  Baked 108 

Chicken,  Broiled. iii 

Chicken,  Creamed 210 

Chicken  Croquettes iii 

Chicken,  Curried  112 

Chicken,  Fried  (New  England  Style). .   no 
Chicken,  Fried,  with  Com  Dodgers... .   112 

Chicken  Goulash no 

Chicken  (Italian  Style) 109 

Chicken  Patties in 

Chicken,  Pickled .' no 

Chicken  Pie io3 

Chicken  Pie,  No.  2 108 

Chicken,  Potted 109 

Chicken,  Pressed log 

Chicken  Salad 214 

Chicken,  Scalloped  no 

Chicken,  Stewed in 

Chicken  Stew,  with  Biscuit 112 

Chicken,  with  Mushrooms 109 

Chicken,  Stewed,  with  Salt  Pork 108 

Duck  and  Green  Peas 118 

Duck,  Braised 118 

Duck,  Mock 114 

Duck,  Tame,  Roast 117 

Duck,  Tame,  Stuffing  for 104 

Force  Meat  Balls 104 

Fowl,  Guinea,  Roasted 113 

Fowl,  Old,  to  Roast 108 

Game  Pie 115 

General  Remarks 103 


Poultry  and  Game — Continued. 

Goose,  Jellied 107 

Goose,  Roast 107 

Goose,  Stuffing  for 104 

Grouse,  Stewed 432 

Hare,  Belgian,  How  to  Dress 116 

Hare,  Fricasseed 117 

Hare,  Roast 117 

Hare,  Stew 116 

How  to  Dress  Poultry 103 

How  to  Select  Poultry 103 

Partridges,  Roasted 113 

Partridges,  Roasted,  No.  2 113 

Partridges,  Stewed 432 

Pheasant 107 

Pigeons,  Roast 114 

Pigeons,  Stewed 432 

Quails  on  Toast 113 

Quails,  Roasted 114 

Quails,  Roasted,  No.  2 114 

Quails,  Stewed 114 

Rabbits 116 

Rabbit  Pie n7 

Sage  Dressing 104 

Squirrel nS 

Squirrel,  Broiled  or  Stewed  ii3 

Turkey,  Boiled,  Oyster  Sauce  106 

Turkey,  Boned 106 

Turkey,  Braised 106 

Turkey,  Roast,  Chestnut  Dressing. . . .   105 

Turkey,  Roast,  Oyster  Dressing 104 

Turkey,  Roast,  Plain  105 

Turkey,  Roast,  with  Sausages 106 

Venison  Haimch 115 

Venison,  Roast 115 

Venison  Steak 115 

Preser\-es,  Spiced  Fruits,  Jellies  and  Ja>is 

Butter,  Apple 381 

Butter,  Cherry 382 

Butter,  Lemon 381 

Butter,  Peach 382 

Butter,  Plum 382 

Consen.-e,  Fig 379 

Conser\'e,  Roses 380 

Currant  Compote,  for  Winter  Use 381 

Ginger  Pears 380 

Jam,  Currant 383 

Jam,  Damson 384 

Jam,  Date 383 

Jam,  Fig 384 

Jam.  Grape 385 


602 


INDEX 


Preserves,  Spiced  Fruits,  Jellies  and  Jams 
— Continued. 

fam,  Green  Gage 384 

fam,  Orange 383 

fam,  Raisin 383 

fam,  Rhubarb,  Green 384 

fam,  Rhubarb,  Ripe 385 

fam.   Strawberry 384 

Ij',  How  to  Make  385 

ly,  Apple 385 

ly,  Aspic 387 

ly,  Astrakhan 386 

ly,  Crab-Apple 388 

ly.  Cranberry 387 

ly,  Currant 388 

ly.  Grape,  Green 385 

ly.  Grape,  Ripe 386 

ly.  Greening 386 

ly,  Iceland  Moss,  for  Invalids 387 

ly.  Orange,  No.    i 387 

ly.  Orange,  No.   2 388 

ly.  Peach 388 

ly,  Plum 388 

ly.  Quince 386 

ly.  Quince  and  Apple 386 

ly.  Raspberry 387 

ly.  Red  Pepper 386 

Marmalade,  Apricot 389 

Marmalade,  Astrakhan 390 

Marmalade,  Grape 389 

Marmalade,  Lemon 389 

Marmalade,  Mixed   390 

Marmalade,  Orange,  No.  i 389 

Marmalade,  Orange,  No.  2 389 

Marmalade,  Rhubarb 388 

Marmalade,  Tomato 389 

Preserves,  Berries,  Whole 377 

Preserves,  California  Prunes 378 

Preserves,  Cherries 378 

Preserves,  Citron 377 

Preserves,  Crab-Apple 375 

Preserves,  Egg  Plums 378 

Preserves,  Fruit  Juice 383 

Preserves,  Gooseberries,  Red 379 

Preserves,  Gooseberries,  Sun-preserved  379 

Preserves,  Grapes 380 

Preserves,  Lemon 381 

Preserves,  Nectarines 378 

Preserves,  Orange  Peel 381 

Preserves,  Peaches 379 

Preserves,  Pears 377 

Preserves,  Pineapple 376 


Preserves,  Spiced  Fruits,  Jellies  and  Jams 
— Continued.  % 

Preserves,  Pippins 380 

Preserves,  Quince 376 

Preserves,  Quince  and  Apple 376 

Preserves,  Quince,  Candied 376 

Preserves,  Strawberries 380 

Preserves,  Strawberries,  Sun-preserved  380 

Preserves,  Tomato 379 

Preserves,  Tomato  Figs 379 

Preserves,  Watermelon  Rind 377 

Spiced  Currants 391 

Spiced  Gooseberries 391 

Spiced  Peaches 390 

Spiced  Plums 390 

Spiced  Tomatoes 390 

Sugar,  to  clarify 375 

Syrup,  Currant 382 

Syrup,  Lemon 383 

Syrup,  Raspberry 382 

Syrup,  Strawberry 382 

Puddings 279 


Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 


Agnew 299 

Almond 284 

Amber 295 

Apple 292 

Apple  and  Entire-wheat  ....  287 

Apple  John,  Old-fashioned . .  296 

Apple,  New  Year's,  Baked. .  302 

Apple  Slump 301 

Bakewell 286 

Bird's  Nest 299 

Blackberry  Roll 296 

Bread,  a  Fine 283 

Bread,  Delicious 283 

Bread,  Custard,  No.  i 283 

Bread,  Custard,  No.  2 294 

Brown  Betty,  No.  i 301 

Brown  Betty,  No.  2 302 

Cereal,  with  Fruit 308 

Cherry  Roll 296 

Chocolate 300 

Chocolate  Meringue 301 

Christmas,  Boiled 282 

Christmas,  Plain 282 

Cobbler,  Blueberry 297 

Cobbler,  Peach 295 

Cocoanut,  Cream 290 

Cocoanut,  Raisin 290 

Corn 291 

Cottage,  No.  i  .• 284 


INDEX 


603 


Puddings — Continued. 

Pudding,  Cottage,  No.  2 300 

Pudding,  Cracker,  No.  i 284 

Pudding,  Cracker,  No.  2 284 

Pudding,  Currant 286 

Pudding  Currants,  How  to  Clean 279 

Pudding,  Date,  Boiled 297 

Pudding,  Damson   290 

Pudding,  Dumplings,  Apple,  Delicious  302 
Pudding,    Dumplings,     Boiled    Apple, 

Grandmother's 298 

Pudding,  East  India 292 

Pudding,  Economical 293 

Pudding,  Farina 288 

Pudding,  Farina  Tart 287 

Pudding,  Fig 298,  469 

Pudding,  Fig,  No.  2   298 

Pudding,  Fig,  No.  3  298 

Pudding,  Florentine 282 

Pudding,  Fruit,  Steamed,  No.  i 291 

Pudding,  Fruit,  Steamed,  No.  2 295 

Pudding,  Gooseberry 283 

Pudding,  Gooseberry,  Green 283 

Pudding,  Graham 297 

Pudding,   Greening 297 

Pudding,  Health 297 

Pudding,  Holiday 280 

Pudding,  Hominy 285 

Pudding,  Huckleberry 293 

Pudding,  Indian,  Boiled 292 

Pudding,  Indian,  Fruit 292 

Pudding,  Indian  Suet,  Baked 292 

Pudding,  Lemon 284 

Pudding,  Marmalade  285 

Pudding,  Marrow 290 

Pudding,  Milton 288 

Pudding,  Minute,  New  England  Style.   288 

Pudding,  Molasses 285 

Pudding,  Montreal 300 

Pudding,  Neapolitan  Custard 289 

Pudding,  Nut 295 

Pudding,  Orange 285 

Pudding,  Peach  Dried 297 

Pudding  Pineapple 294 

Pudding,  Plum 280 

Pudding,  Plum,  Christmas 281 

Pudding,  Plum,  English 2S1 

Pudding,  Plum,  Suet 300 

Pudding,  Popcorn 280 

Pudding,  Prince  Albert's 294 

Pudding,  Prune,  No.  i 299 

Pudding,  Prune,  No.  2 299 


Puddings — Continued. 

Pudding,  Raisin 293 

Pudding,  Raisins,  How  to  Stone 280 

Pudding,  Rhubarb,  No.  i 288 

Pudding,  Rhubarb,  No.  2 289 

Pudding,  Rice,  No.  i 286 

Pudding,  Rice,  No.  2 286 

Pudding,  Rice,  Grape 286 

Pudding,  Rice,  Ground 287 

Pudding,  Rice,  Lemon 287 

Pudding,  Roly-Poly,  Apple,  Orange  or 

Jam 294 

Pudding,  Rye 287 

Pudding,  Sago,  Cream  or  Apple 291 

Pudding,  Sago,  English 291 

Pudding,  Snitz  Glose 302 

Pudding,  Snow 291 

Pudding,  Spice 296 

Pudding,  Suet 299 

Pudding,  Suet,  How  to  Chop 280 

Pudding,  Sweet  Potato 228 

Pudding,  Tapioca,  Apple 290 

Pudding,  Tapioca,  Baked 289 

Pudding,  Tapioca,  Cream 289 

Pudding,  Thrifty 295 

Pudding,  Transparent 293 

Pudding,  Wheatlet  for  Luncheon 308 

Pudding  Sauces 303 

Pudding  Sauce,  Arrowroot 305 

Pudding  Sauce,  Apple  Jelly 304 

Pudding  Sauce,    Blueberry  or   Black- 
berry    306 

Pudding  Sauce,  Brandy,  No.  i.  Rich. .  303 

Pudding  Sauce,  Brandy,  No.  2 304 

Pudding  Sauce,  Brown 305 

Pudding  Sauce,  Butter 306 

Pudding  Sauce,  Cherry 306 

Pudding  Sauce,  Chocolate 303 

Pudding  Sauce,  Dumpling 305 

Pudding  Sauce,  Egg 303 

Pudding  Sauce,  Empress 306 

Pudding  Sauce.  English  Sweet 307 

Pudding  Sauce,  Foaming 305 

Pudding  Sauce,   Foamy,  for  Steamed 

Puddings 307 

Pudding  Sauce,  Fruit 306 

Pudding  Sauce,  Hard : 304 

Pudding  Sauce,  Lemon 307 

Pudding  Sauce,  Orange 305 

Pudding     Sauce,      Paris,      for    Sweet 
Dumplings 306 


604 


INDEX 


Pudding  Sauces — Continued. 

Pudding  Sauce,  Plain 303 

Pudding  Sauce,  Plum  Pudding 304 

Pudding  Sauce,  Spanish 306 

Pudding  Sauce,  Strawberrj' 306 

Pudding  Sauce,  Strawberry,  Cold 306 

Pudding  Sauce,  Transparent,  for  Frit- 
ters    305 

Pudding  Sauce,  Vanilla 304 

Pudding  Sauce,  Vanilla  Cream. 303 

Pudding  Sauce.  Wine 304 

Relishes  and  Catsups 426 

Chili  Sauce 429 

Chili  Sauce,  No.  2 429 

Chow-Chow 406 

Crab- Apple  Catsup , 430 

Cucumber  Catsup 430 

Cucumber  Catsup,  No.  2 430 

Currant  Catsup T 430 

East  India  Pickle 402 

Gooseberry  Catsup 430 

Grape  Catsup 429 

Grape  Catsup,  No.  2 430 

India  Relish 426 

Piccalilli  407 

Plum  Catsup 430 

Tomato  Catsup 429 

Tomato  Catsup,  No.  2 429 

Tomato  Catsup,  No.  3 429 

Tomato  Chutney 426 

Tomato  Soy,  Green 426 

Tomato  Soy,  Ripe 426 

Remedies  for  Prevalent  Disorders 

Abscess '. 563 

Antidote  for  Poisoning 555 

Blackberry  Syrup  for  Loose  Bowels ...  559 

Blood  Purifier 558 

Bunions 557 

Cancer,  External 557 

Cancer,  Internal 557 

Care  of  the  Ears 559 

Catarrh 564,  565 

Caution 556 

Choking 557 

Cholera  Infantum 557 

Cholera  Infantum,  No.  2 560 

Colic 563 

Cramp  in  Bathing 556 

Cramp  in  the  Leg 5  56 

Croup 560 


Remedies  for  Prevalent  Disorders — 
Continued. 

Cough  Cure,  Sure 565 

Cough  Syrup 565 

Dropsy 559 

Felon  Cure 558 

Felon  Cure,  No  2 558 

Foreign  Body  in  the  Eye 560 

Good  Cathartic 561 

Good  Way  to  Take  Castor  Oil 559 

Gumboil 564 

Hiccough  Cure,  for  a  Grown  Person. . .   554 

Hiccough  Cure,  for  Children 555 

Hiccough  Cure,  No.  2 555 

Nose  Bleed 556 

Nose  Bleed,  No.  2 563 

Nightmare 563 

Palpitation  of  the  Heart 562 

Quinsy 562 

Relief  for  Cholera  558 

Scrofula 562 

Simple  Remedy  to  Break  up  a  Cold.  . .   554 

Sprain  Remedy 561 

Sunstroke 556 

To  Clear  a  Waste  Pipe 558 

To  Cool  the  Blood 558 

To  Counteract'  Poisonous  Gas 558 

To  Cure  Chafing 560 

To  Cure  Corns 564 

To  Cure  Diphtheria 561 

To  Cure  Dry  Piles 561 

To  Cure  Inward  Piles 561 

To  Cure  Mosquito  Bite 560 

To  Cure  Toothache 561 

To  Kill  Corns 557 

To  Kill  Warts 557 

To  Make  Excellent  Liniment 560 

To  Make  Linseed  Poultice 560 

To  Make  Mustard 560 

To  Remove  Cold  in  the  Head 561 

To  Remove  Lodgment  in  Throat 559 

To  Remove  Proud  Flesh 559 

Tobacco  Smoking 564 

Ulcer 562 

Salads  with  Meat,  Fish  and  Shell  Fish 

Chicken 214 

Chicken,  No.  2 214 

Crab 215 

Dandelion  and  Bacon 213 

Fish 2x6 

Granada 215 


INDEX 


605 


Salads  with  Meat,  Fish  and  Shell  Fish 
— Continued. 

Herring 215 

Lamb  and  Green  Pea 213 

Lobster 215 

Lobster,  No.  2 216 

Oyster 213 

Salmon 214 

Salmon,  No.  2 214 

Sardine 216 

Sweetbread 213 

S.\LAD  Dressing 

Bottled  212 

Butter 212 

Cream  212 

Favorite 211 

French 211 

Mayonnaise 212 

Mayonnaise  (Usual  Custom) 211 

Whipped  Cream  Salad  Dressing 211 

Salads  without  Meats 

After  Dinner 510 

Artichoke 518 

Bean 512 

Beet  511 

Cabbage  510 

Cabbage   and   Celery 513 

Cauliflower 514 

Celery 512 

Cherry 511 

Cold  Slaw 515 

Cold  Slaw,  Grandmother's 516 

Combination 516 

Cucumber 517 

Dandelion 514 

Dominion 517 

Egg 515 

Grape 511 

Hot  Cabbage 515 

Imperial  510 

Lenten 511 

Lenten,  No.  2 516 

Macedoine 511 

Mock  Pineapple 517 

Nut  and  Celery 513 

Onion  and  Tomato 514 

Orange 510 

Orange,  No.  2 511 

Orange,  No.  3 513  , 

Orange  and  Lettuce 5 13 

Plantation 513 


Salads  without  Meats — Cotitinued. 

Potato 516 

Potato,  Onion  and  Celery 516 

Potato,  with  Nuts 511 

Radish  . : 518 

Real  Spanish 510 

Red  Cabbage 515 

String  Bean 512 

Surprise 514 

Tomato  and  Beet 516 

Tomato  and  Lettuce 515 

Tomato  and  Onion 518 

Vegetable 514 

Waldorf 510 

Walnut 512 

Walnut,  No.  2 513 

Watercress. 512,  518 

White  Cabbage 515 

Salad  Dressing,  Boiled 509 

Sandwiches  and  Canapes 

General  Remarks 173 

Apple 176 

Anniversary' 176 

Baked  Bean 173 

Beef  and  Potato ; 175 

Boston  Girl's 174 

Chicken  and  Ham 176 

Chicken  Salad 177 

Club  House 177 

Cucumber  Salad 177 

Date 176 

Duck 175 

Egg 174 

Egg,  No.  2 174 

Fish  177 

Game  i75 

German 175 

Ham  177 

Hickory  Nut  and  Banana 176 

Hot  Beef 175 

Jam 175 

Lettuce •. i73 

Nut 177 

Olive 173 

"Ramona" i74 

Turtle,  for  Children's  Parties 174 

Valentine  176 

Welsh  Rarebit I77 

Canapes 

Cheese 182 

Jefferson 178 


60G 


INDEX 


Can  apes — Contmued. 

Oyster 178 

Plain 178 

Sardine 178 

Soups  with  Meat 55 

Amber 63 

Asparagus,  with  Stock 66 

Asparagus,  with  Stock,  No.  2 67 

Barley  and  Beef  Broth 60 

Barley,  with  Stock 67 

Bean,  Dried 70 

Beef   Broth 62 

Beef  Tea 59 

Bisque  of  Clams 61 

Bisque  of  Crabs 68 

Bouillon,  Spiced 59 

Bouillon,  Standard 59 

Cabbage,  with  Stock 68 

Calf's  Foot  Broth 67 

Carrot,  with  Stock 70 

Celery,  with  Stock 65 

Chicken  Broth 64 

Chicken  Broth,  No.  2 64 

Chicken  Gumbo 64 

Clam 62 

Clear 55 

Clear,  with  Noodles 68 

Consomme,  with  Egg  Balls 58 

Consomm^,  with   Pearl  Barley 58 

Consomme,  with  Rice  and  Cream ....  58 

Corn  and  Tomato,  with  Stock 69 

Cream  of  Spinach,  with  Stock 69 

Cream  Soup,  with  Stock 60 

Delicate  Chicken 65 

Egg  Balls,  for  Soup 57 

Fish  Soup 66 

Giblet 66 

Goulash 69 

Green  Pea,  with  Stock 69 

Herb  Powder,  for  Soup 58 

Julienne  Soup 61 

Gumbo 66 

Lome 65 

Macaroni  68 

Mulligatawny 63 

Mixed  Stock 56 

Mock  Terrapin 64 

Mock  Turtle 60 

Mutton  Broth 59 

Mutton  Broth,  with  Vegetables 59 

Noodles,  for  Soup 57 


PAGB 

Soups  with  Meat — Continued.  ^ 

Noodles,  for  Soup,  No.  2 ^7 

Onion,  with  Salt  Pork 66 

Ox  Tail 63 

Ox  Tail,  No.   2 65 

Oyster 62 

Oyster  Cream 62 

Parsnip,  with  Stock 62 

Plain  Bouillon 59 

Plain  Stock 56 

Potato,  with  Stock 60 

Purees 55 

Scotch  Broth    63 

Spiced  Bouillon 59 

Split  Pea,  with  Salt  Pork 70 

Standard  Bouillon 59 

Stock  for  Soup,  White 57 

Thick 55 

Toasted  Bread  Crusts  for  Soup 57 

T-omato,  with  Stock 67 

Turkey 60 

Turkey,  No.  2 61 

Veal 64 

Veal  Broth 58 

Vegetable,  with  Stock 61 

White  Stock 57 

Soups  without  Meat 

Asparagus  Cream 45  7 

Asparagus,  Plain 459 

Blended  Vegetable 457 

Bisque  of  Tomato 460 

Brown  Onion 454 

Celery  and  Potato 463 

Corn 453 

Corn,  Chicago 455 

Corn  Chowder 458 

Corn  and  Onion 457 

Cream  of  Bean 456 

Cream  of  Celery 45  5 

Cream  of  Celery,  No.  2 458 

Cream  of  Chestnut 459 

Cream  of  Lentils 459 

Cream  of  Lettuce 45  2 

Cream  of  Tomato 452 

Cream  of  Vegetable 463 

Cucumber  and  Gumbo 457 

Dried  Pea 458 

Graham  457 

Green  Corn 456 

Health 452 

Ionia  Pea 460 


INDEX 


60t 


PAGE 

Soups  without  Meat — Continued. 

Iowa  Potato 454 

Lentil 454 

Minnesota  Bean 460 

Mock  Bisque 4^3 

New  York 452 

Onion 45 1 

Onion  and  Celery 459 

Onion  and  Potato 456 

Pea 453 

Pennsylvania  Pea 455 

Pea  and  Vermicelli 455 

Potato,  Ai 454 

Potato,  No.  3 463 

Quick  Potato 453 

Potato,  No.  4 463 

Puree  of  Vegetable 460 

Rice  and  Pea 45i 

Rice  and  Tomato 452 

Sago 459 

Sago,  No.  2 456 

Split  Pea 456 

Tomato 453 

Tomato,  No.  2 453 

Tomato  with  Onions 460 

Turnip  and  Rice 45i 

Vegetable  without  Meat 453 

Vegetable  Oyster 455 

Vegetable  Soup 456 

Vermicelli  Soup 458 

Sick  and  Convalescent 538 

General  Remarks  on 53^ 

Preparation  of  Food  for 538 

Apple  Water 547 

Arrowroot  Jelly 543 

Baltimore  Punch 547 

Barley  Coffee 54° 

Beef  Jelly 543 

Beef  Tea 539 

Beverage  for  Fever  Patient 544 

Boiled  Partridges 545 

Bran  Jelly 543 

Celery  for  Rheumatism 546 

Chicken,  Broiled 543 

Chicken    Broth 542 

Chicken  Panada 543 

Clam'  Juice  Broth 542 

Cracked  or  Rolled  Wheat 54° 

Currant  Jelly 54i 

Custard,    Light 547 

Egg  Nog 542 


Sick  and  Convalescent — Co7itinued. 

Extract  of  Beef 544 

Fiberless  Beef  for  Invalids 546 

Flaxseed  Tea 540 

Flour  Gruel 54i 

Graham  Mush 540 

Health  Drink 545 

Ice  Mint 544 

Indian  Meal  Mush 540 

Invalid's  Dinner,  An 546 

Ko-nut   Pastry 548 

Koumiss 542 

Lemon  Whey 543 

Lime   Water > 541 

Malted   Milk 545 

Milk  Punch 542 

Milk    Porridge 544,  548 

Mixed  Beef  Tea 545 

Mutton  Broth 542 

Mutton  Chop,  Broiled 543 

Nutta 545 

Oatmeal  Coffee 54° 

Oatmeal  Gruel 544 

Oatmeal  Mush , 540 

Orange  and  Lemon  Juice 546 

Parched  Rice ; 548 

Pudding  for  Convalescents 548 

Refreshing  Drink  in  Fevers ■  ■ 541 

Rice  Gruel 54i 

Rice  Water 54i 

Sage  Tea 54i>  547 

Sago  Gruel 547 

Sterilized  Lemonade 544 

Stewed  Prunes 548 

Tapioca  Cup  Pudding 545 

Tapioca  for  Invalids 546 

Tenderloin,  Broiled 543 

Thickened  Milk 547 

Toast  Water 539.  542 

To  Make  Gruel 539 

Water  Gruel 54i 

Toast 

a  la  Duchesse 171 

Anchovy ^71 

Apple 171 

Arme  Ritter 169 

au  Gratin 16S 

Beef  Marrow ^72 

Beef  Tongue no 

Cavier ^72 

Cream,  Made  of  Brown  Bread 170 


608 


INDEX 


PAGE 

Toast — Contin  ued. 

Codfish 170 

Cod-roe 83 

Deviled 171 

English  Muffins  .  •. 171 

French 171 

Fruit 169 

Game 167 

German 167 

Ham 167 

Kidney 170 

Lemon 170 

Meat 168 

Milk 169 

Salmon 172 

Sausage 168 

Shad-roe 168 

Stuffed  Rolls 172 

Tomato 168 

Tomato,  No.  2 168 

Sardine 1 69 

Zwiebach 169 

Toilet  Suggestions  and  Recipes 

Complexion,  The 567 

Effect  of  a  Cheerful  Disposition 566 

Royal  Road  to  Beauty 566 

Sufficient  Time  for  Eating 567 

Almond  Meal 574 

Camphor  Ice 568 

Care  of  the  Hair 573 

Care  of  the  Teeth 572 

Cold  Cream 568 

Cologne,  How  to  Make 580 

Cologne,  German 580 

Complexion  Cream 569 

Cure  for  Brown  Throat 574 

Cure  for  a  Rough  Skin 571 

Freckle  Lotion 574 

Glycerine  Cream 569 

For  the  Toilet  Table 537 

Hair  Dressing 576 

Hair  Growing 576 

Hair  Tonic 575,  576 

Hair  Strengthener 575 

Hands,  The 578 

Harmonious  Colors  for  Red  Hair 573 

Head  Shampoo 576 

Massage  for  the  Eyes 577 

Obstinate  Blackheads 572 

Orchid  Fad 537 

Perspiration  Powder 575 


Toilet  Suggestions  and  Recipes — Confd. 

Perfume   579 

Perfume,  Florida  Water 579 

Perfume,  Heliotrope 580 

Perfume,  .Lavender  Water 580 

Perfume,  Rose  Water 579 

Perfume,  Violet 580 

Remedy  for  Chapped  Hands 578 

Remedy  for  Tainted  Breath 579 

Round  Shoulders 572 

Rules  for  Reduction  of  Flesh 572 

Sure  Cure  for  Pimples 569 

Sachet  Powder 580 

To  Arrest  Falling  Hair 575 

To  Clean  Hairbrushes 577 

To  Cleanse  Hair  and  Scalp 575  ■ 

To  Clear  a  Sallow  Skin 571 

To  Cure  Eruptions  on  Face 572 

To  Induce  Sleep 579 

To  Make  a  Handsome  Throat 574 

To  Make  the  Hair  Grow 573 

To  Make  the  Hands  Soft 578 

To  Obtain  a  Handsome  Form 570 

To  Reduce  the  Pores 571 

To  Remove  Freckles 574 

To  Remove  Scales  from  the  Hands 578 

To  Remove  Tartar  from  the  Teeth. . .   578 

To  Remove  Warts 558 

To  Thicken  the  Eyebrows 576 

To  Whiten  the  Hands 578 

Toilet  Powder 5  74 

Tooth    Powder 577 

Tooth  Wash 577 

Wash  for  Eruptions 575 

Wrinkles,  How  to  Prevent  and  Remove  572 

Vegetables 

General  Remarks  on 485 

Their  Importance 485 

Time  for  Cooking 486 

Suggestions  on  Cooking 485 

Apples  and  Potatoes 490 

Apples,  Fried 497,  505 

Artichokes,  Boiled 499 

Artichokes,  Fried 499 

Asparagus 498 

Asparagus,  with  Eggs 498 

Beans,  Baked 500 

Beans,  Boston  Baked 500 

Beans,  Boston  Baked,  No.  2 500 

Bean  Croquettes,  Flaked 505 

Beans,  Lima 500 


INDEX 


609 


Vegetables  —Co7iiintied. 

Beans,  String 500 

Beets,  Boiled 496 

Beets,  Creamed 497 

Broccoli 492 

Brussels  Sprouts 492 

Cabbage,  French 493 

Cabbage,  Fried 493 

Cabbage,   Stuffed 493 

Cabbage,  with  Cream  Dressing 493 

Carrots 502 

Cauliflower,  au  Gratin 506 

Cauliflower,  Boiled 491 

Cauliflower,  Relish 492 

Cauliflower  Served  with    Melted    But- 
ter     462 

Celery 504 

Celery  Cream 504 

Corn  Cakes 506 

Corn,  Green,  Escalloped 491 

Corn,  Green,  on  Cob 491 

Corn  Pudding 491 

Corn,  Sweet 491 

Cucumbers,  Baked 507 

Cucumbers,    Fried 501 

Cucumbers,   with    Dressing 507 

Cucumbers,   Stewed 507 

Dandelion  and  Spinach  Greens 504 

Egg  Plant  Cakes 501 

Egg  Plant,  Fried 501 

Egg  Plant,  Stuffed 501 

Greens 503 

Lentils 502 

Macaroni  and  Cheese,  Baked 507 

Mushrooms,   Baked 498 

Mushrooms,  Broiled 497 

Mushroom  Croquettes 498 

Mushrooms,  Escalloped 49S 

Mushrooms,  Stewed 497 

Okra,  with  Tomatoes,  Stewed 507 

Onions,  Creamed 501 

Onions,  Fried 502 

Onions,  Plain,  Boiled 501 

Onions,  Stuffed 506 

Parsnip  Balls 507 

Parsnips,  Boiled 499 

Parsnips,  Creamed 499 

Parsnips,  Fried 499 

Peas,  Creamed 505 

Peas,  Fried 502 

Peas,  Green 502 

Peas  and  Lettuce,  Stewed 502 


Vegetables — Continued. 

Peas,   Loaf 502 

Potato  Balls    489 

Potato  Balls,  Sweet 48^ 

Potatoes  and  Corn 506 

Potatoes,   Baked 48q( 

Potato  Cakes 487 

Potatoes,  Creamed 488 

Potato  Croquettes 488,   505 

Potato  Croquettes,  Sweet 490 

Potatoes,  Escalloped 489 

Potatoes,  French  Fried 490 

Potatoes,  Flaked 490 

Potatoes,   Hashed  Brown 486 

Potatoes,   Hollandaise 486 

Potatoes,   Lyonnaise •. 487 

Potatoes,  Mashed 488 

Potatoes,  New,  to  Boil 487 

Potato  Pancakes 490 

Potato  Souffle 488 

Potatoes,  Stuffed 487 

Potatoes,  Sweet,  Southern  Style 461 

Potato  Tortilla 488 

Rice 504 

Rice,  Boiled 501 

Ruta-Baga 496 

Salsify,  Baked 505 

Saratoga  Chips 486 

Sauerkraut 494 

Sea  Kale , 492 

Slaw,  Hot., 494 

Slaw,  Red  Cabbage 494 

Spaghetti 508 

Spinach  Fritters 504 

Spinach,  Plainly  Dressed 503 

Squash,  Hubbard 503 

Squash,  Summer   503 

Succotash 491 

Tomatoes,  Baked 495 

Tomatoes,  Deviled 495 

Tomatoes,    Fried,    Ripe 495 

Tomatoes,  Fried,  Green 495 

Tomatoes,  Scalloped 496 

Tomatoes,  Sliced 495 

Tomatoes,   Stuffed 495 

Tomatoes,  with  Shredded  Wheat  Bis- 
cuits         506 

Turnips  in  Cream 496 

Turnips,  Mashed 49^ 

Turnips,  Stuffed 496 

Vegetables,  au  Gratin 506 

Vegetable  Curry 508 


610 


INDEX 


V  KGKT  A  BLES —  Contitl  UCd. 

Vegetable  Oysters 503 

Vermicelli 508 


Vegetarianism  . 


440 


Ventilation,  Sewerage  and  Drinking 

Water 

Its  Relation  to  Life 549 

Drinking    Water,    What    it    Means  to 

Man  550 

Danger  of  Poor  Ventilation 549 

Disinfectants 55o 


VENTiLATioif,  Sewerage  and  Drinking 
Water — Contt'n  ued. 

Sewer  Gas,  Danger  of 549 

Sleeping  Rooms,  When  Healthy 549 

Wastefulness 

Article  Most  Frequently  Wasted 42 

Economical  Living 41 

How  to  Utilize  Everything 42 

Proper  Care  of  Drippings 43 

Prudence  of  the  French  Home 41 

When  and  How  to  Buy 41 


1! 


|PIR^6  190^ 


MAR  26  1902 


M2 


MAR.    27    1902 


^ 
^ 


,^^^^'^r, 


V''. 


.v'?- 


.<^^-. 


o  0 


0i>    s 


oV" 


vlV 


^0    O 


vV      V- 


'^2.      < 


i;    "bo 


>^ 


.%"' 


•N^       ■'>> 


-..<^ 


-S- 


^v    .^^^■ 


-5. 


v^^    ^ci- 


.0  0^ 


v^^     ■'''^^^ 


^.  ,,xv^ 


■-^ 


"^..c^" 


V-  \^ 


f/.  -C^ 


>^    •% 


^>^- 


,0^    ^•<  '"."^ 


^^.    ..^ 


^^-^^^ 


<'  ■'O   ,     >.    ■*        v'\ 


^V      'c^       ' 


A-N" 


.^'  ^, 


V 


7         ^  ,-^^ 

,0  o. 


V     c5-' 


\'         V    -- 


\'     .    •> 


"^'^ 


-0      s 


v^^      '^. 


# 


^^^  v^^^ 


^^^' 


.•^■^^ 


-s-.,.  A^ 


.0  0 


^-^  .-^^ 


,H       -7-, 


'^:^  s^^ 


