¥OMSNS  CITY  CLUB 


■i.^i.u.  .ijjijjj.jU!Jsmifi^ui.j>ULMMUi:'..^i..  imgrm^rBmBmmB^m^BmmmmimmmamLji.<.j^ii,u,mj!iU-!.3tJ^'3ja\ijuuuuuLimmmmrtmiUvj^M,aBr^ 


-'  i  J  OF 
LIBRARY 

-HAMPAIGN 
REET 
^ILITY 


^^V<i 


i .  -^ 


WOMAN'S  CITY  CLUB 
COOK  BOOK 


COMPILED  BY 

THE  LIBRARY  COMMITTEE 

OF  THE 

WOMAN'S  CITY  CLUB  OF  CHICAGO 


/ 

A 


CHICAGO,  ILLINOIS 

1923 


The  Library  Committee  wishes  to  ex- 
press its  grateful  appreciation  to  all  who 
have  aided  in  compiling  this  book,  and  its 
regret  that  on  account  of  the  limited  time  it 
was  not  possible  to  reach  all  members  of  the 
Club;  also,  because  of  duplicates,  it  was  nec- 
essary to  eliminate  many  good  recipes  so  that 
too  much  space  would  not  be  devoted  to  any 
one  subject. 

It  is  sincerely  hoped  that  this  little  book 
will  meet  with  the  kindly  approval  of  all  who 
use  it. 

Isabel  Mariner  Mitchell, 

Chairman. 


6U 


INDEX 


BEVERAGES    _ _ „ _ page  5 

BREADS,  HOT  BREADS  AND  SANDWICHES _ "  8 

CAKES  AND   FROSTINGS "  16 

COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES „ "  24 

DESSERTS „ _ "  30 

ENTREES _ - "  36 

MEAT   AND   POULTRY _ _ "  42 

PASTRY "  50 

PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES _ „ _ "  54 

SALAD  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS "  60 

SOUPS    ; - „ "  66 

VEGETABLES  ._ „.... "  69 


TABLE    OF   WEIGHTS   AND  MEASURES 

Mrs.  Royal  Wentworth  Irwin 

3  cups  wheat  flour make  1  pound 

SV2  cups  com  meal — "  1  " 

1       large  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar  "  V2  '• 

1       large  coffee  cup  dry  brown  sugar **  V2  " 

IV2  cups  of  firm  butter,  pressed  down "  1  *' 

1       cup  raisins  _ , "  V2  " 

10     eggs - "  1 

1       white  of  egg _ "  1  ounce 

1  yolk  of  egg , "  1 

16     ounces "  1  pound 

4  teaspoons "  1  tablespoon 

4      tablespoons ~ "  V2  gill 

2  gills "  V2  pint 

2       pints "  1  quart 

4       quarts _ - — "  1  gallon 

8       quarts  _ "  1  peck 


A  PERFECT  CHICAGO 

1     good  Mayor,  31  incorruptible  Judges, 

50  upright  Aldermen,  1     intelligent  School  Board,  (be 

1     efficient  Chief  of  Police,  sure  this  mixes  smoothly), 

An  unlimited  number  of  active  Civic  Organizations. 

Moisten  these  ingredients  thoroughly  with  the  milk  of 
Human  Kindness;  flavor  well  with  Honesty,  Wisdom  and 
Steadfastness;  stirring  in  at  the  same  time  a  large  measure 
of  Civic  Spirit.  Pour  into  the  mold  of  the  City  Beautiful,  and 
let  stand  until  firmly  set,  testing,  from  time  to  time,  with  the 
straw  of  Public  Opinion. 

If  followed  carefully  this  recipe  cannot  fail. 


BEVERAGES 

They  called  for  tea  and  chocolate, 
And  fell  into  their  usual  chat. 


-Swift. 


BAYMEATH  DRINK 

Mrs,  Joseph  T.  Bowen 


Juice  of  3  oranges  1  cup  strong  tea 

Juice  of  1  lemon  1  pint  ginger  ale 

-        1  pint  Apollinaris  or  AVhite  Rock 
Add  sugar  if  desired  and  put  a  few  sprigs  of  mint  in  pitcher 
W'hen  serving. 

CASCADE  PUNCH 
•  Mme.  Harriet  Labadie 

Juice  of  12  lemons  4  lbs.  granulated  sugar 

Juice  of  6  oranges  4  cups  water 

Juice  of  12  limes  2  cups  strong  uncolored  Japan 

8  cups  sweet  cider  tea  (made  and  cooled) 

4  cups  iced  water 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  tea,  cider, 
iced  water  and  juices  of  above  fruits.  When  ready  to  serve  add  a 
few  thin  slices  of  pineapple,  orange  and  straw^berries  if  in  season, 
three  stalks  of  crushed  mint  and  ice.  This  quantity  makes  one  gal- 
lon, fifty  small  glasses. 

CHOCOLATE 

t^UmB    >  i  Mrs.  John  S.  Brown 


(8  cups) 

1  qt.  milk  %  tbsp.  cornstarch 

2  oz.  Baker's  chocolate  3  tbsp.  sugar 
2  tbsp.  boiling  water  Pinch  of  salt 

Mix  cornstarch  with  one-quarter  cup  milk.  Put  remainder  of 
milk  in  double  boiler  to  heat.  When  milk  is  scalded  stir  in  corn- 
starch, and  cook  ten  minutes.  Scrape  chocolate,  put  in  small  pan^ 
add  sugar  and  water  and  place  pan  over  hot  water.  Stir  until  mix- 
ture is  smooth  and  glossy.  Add  hot  milk  and  beat  with  egg  beater 
until  frothy.  Serve  at  once.  If  preferred  unthickened,  omit  corn- 
starch. If  desired,  add  half  teaspoonful  vanilla,  and  serve  whipped 
cream  in  each  cup.    This  makes  Vienna  style  chocolate. 


6  BEVERAGES 

FRUIT  PUNCH 
Mrs.  Frank  O.  Lowden 

y^  cup  bottled  pineapple  Sugar  to  taste 

juice  %  cup  orange  juice 

%  cup  lemon  juice       )  .  1  cup  plain  water 

1  pt.  ginger  ale  1  pt.  White  Rock  water 
Serve  in  glasses  with  crushed  ice  and  a  sprig  of  mint.    Rasp- 
berry juice  may  be  added  if  desired. 

MINT  JULEP 
Mrs.  James  B.  Herrick 

3  lemons,  juice  and  grated  rind         3  bottles  ginger  ale 
6  oranges,  juice  only  2  cups  sugar 

2  cups  fresh  mint  leaves  1  qt.  water 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  ten  minutes.  Wash  and  dry 
mint  leaves  and  cut  fine  with  scissors.  Add  lemon  and  orange  juice 
and  mint ;  pour  boiling  syrup  over  mixture.  Let  stand  over  night. 
Add  ginger  ale  at  time  of  serving.    Serves  twenty-five  people. 

MINT  ORANGEADE 
Mrs.  Samuel  Dauchy 

2  cups  sugar  6  oranges 

%  cup  water  6  lemons 

2  qts.   water  %  bunch  mint 

Cook  sugar  and  half  cup  water  and  mint. ten  minutes;  cool, 
strain,  mix  with  lemon  and  orange  juice  and  add  water.  Serve  cold. 

MULLED  GRAPE  JUICE 
Mrs.  Murray  Nelson 

Rind  of  1  orange,  grated  1  cup  boiling  water 

Juice  of  1  lemon  1  tbsp.  sugar 

1  qt.  unf ennented  grape  juice  Pinch  powdered  mace 

4  whole  cloves 

Place  orange  rind,  lemon  juice  and  water  in  a  granite  saucepan, 
add  grape  juice,  cloves  and  mace.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
simmer  for  ten  minutes.  Prepare  a  meringue  by  boiling  together 
one  cup  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  water,  without  stirring,  until  it 
spins  a  thread.  Pour  this  gradually  upon  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs,  add  the  boiling  grape  liquor,  dust  lightly  with  grated 
nutmeg.     Serve  immediately. 


BEVERAGES  T 

MY  COFFEE 
Miss  Harriet  E.  Vittum 

Coffee  Cold  water 

Egg  shells  Boiling  water 

Use  any  good  blend  of  coffee,  freshly  ground  in  a  medium 
grinder,  and  allow  one  heaping  tablespoon  for  each  person  and  one 
for  the  pot.  Mix  the  coffee  with  a  little  cold  water  and  crushed  egg 
shells  left  from  baking,  one  shell  to  every  three  cups  of  coffee,  and 
let  this  come  slowly  to  a  boil.  As  soon  as  it  boils  add  the  full  amount 
of  boiling  water,  allowing  one  cup  of  water  to  each  person.  Let  it 
boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  the  stove,  throw  in  a 
dash  of  cold  water.  Allow  a  few  minutes  to  settle  and  good  coffee 
is  ready  to  serve. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB 

Mrs.  Albert  P.  Allen 

Red  Raspberries  Cider  Vinegar 

Place  red  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar,  cover  them  with  vinegar, 
let  stand  over  night ;  next  morning  strain  and  to  one  point  of  juice 
add  one  pint  of  sugar.    Boil  ten  minutes  and  bottle  while  hot. 

ROOT  BEER  FLOAT 

Miss  Sue  Seeley 

Root  beer  Vanilla  ice  cream 

Put  a  little  root  beer  in  a  glass,  add  a  spoonful  of  ice  cream ; 
nearly  fill  the  glass  with  root  beer  and  finish  with  ice  cream. 

REFRESHING  DRINK 
Miss  Helen  A.  Montegriffo 

Juice  of  1  lemon  A  few  berries 

Juicy  peach  cut  in  small  pieces         Juice  of  2  oranges 
Any  leftover  jam  or  jelly 

Add  about  as  much  water  as  there  is  juice  and  serve  ice  cold. 
Grape  juice  can  be  added  if  desired. 

TEA 

Mrs.  Ira  Couch  Wood 

Vi  tsp.  tea,  1  cup  boiling  water  (for  each  person) 
Place  tea  in  earthen  pot,  which  has  been  scalded.    Pour  over  it 
the  boiling  water.    Let  stand  three  minutes,  and  serve. 


BREADS,  HOT  BREADS  AND  SANDWICHES 

A  loaf  of  bread,  the  walrus  said. 
Is  what  we  chiefly  need. 

— Lewis  Carroll. 

BREAD 

Mrs.  B.  F,  Langworthy 

1  pt.  milk  1  tsp.  salt  (more  if  desired) 

1  pt.  boiling  water  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  tbsp.  sugar  Flour 

1  tbsp.  lard,  or  lard  and  butter 
Break  yeast  cake  into  one-half  cup  lukewarm  water,  and  let 
stand  while  preparing  the  liquid.  Place  milk  in  mixing  bowl,  pour 
into  it  the  boiling  water,  add  sugar,  salt  and  shortening,  and  let 
stand  until  blood  waiTn.  Stir  dissolved  yeast  into  the  liquid,  add 
two  quarts  of  sifted  flour  and  beat  together  thoroughly.  Add  flour 
enough  to  knead ;  knead  until  it  is  soft  and  pliant,  about  ten  min- 
utes; cover  and  let  rise  in  moderate  temperature  for  six  or  eight 
hours.  Turn  out  on  floured  bread-board,  knead  for  a  few  minutes, 
until  it  emits  tiny  cracking  sounds ;  form  into  three  loaves ;  place  in 
bread  pans,  cover  with  towel  and  let  rise  to  twice  its  bulk.  Plac€ 
in  hot  oven  and  turn  down  the  gas  to  half  its  height,  or  to  what  is 
commonly  known  as  a  slow  oven.  Bake  slowly  for  forty-five  min- 
utes, changing  position  of  loaves  to  insure  even  rising. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS 
Mrs.  P.  B.  Kohlsaat 

2  cups  flour  1  tbsp.  lard 
1  tsp.  salt  %  cup  milk 

1  tbsp.  butter  4  tsp.  baking  powder 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together.    Work  shortening  in  with  knife ; 

add  milk  and  stir.    Throw  on  bread-board  and  pat  to  one-half  inch 

thick.    Cut ;  bake  twelve  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

BLUEBERRY  CAKE 
Mrs.  W.  R.  Cubbins 

3  tbsp.  butter,  melted  3  tsp.  baking  powder 
11/2  cups  sugar  IV2  cups  milk 

4  cups  flour  2  eggs 

1  box  blueberries 

Have  berries  dry  and  floured.  Bake  in  greased  pans  in  mod- 
erate oven,  about  thirty-five  minutes.  This  is  delicious  eaten  hot  for 
breakfast.    Cut  dates  may  be  used  in  place  of  blueberries. 


BREADS  0 

BLUEBERRY  MUFf:iNS 

Mme.  Harriet  Labadie 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  egg 

2  tbsp.  melted  butter  2  cups  pastry  flour 

^  cup  milk  4  level  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  blueberries  .  ^  tsp.  salt 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt.  Mix  with 
egg,  previously  beaten  light.  Add  milk  and  butter,  and  lastly  fold 
in  blueberries  dredged  with  flour. 

BRAN  MUFFINS 
Mrs.  L.  B.  Grant 

3  tbsp.  brown  sugar  1  tsp.  salt 

2  tbsp.  fat  3  cups  bran 

1/4  cup  molasses  1  cup  white  flour 

1  level  tsp.  soda  1  egg 

1  cup  milk 

Dissolve  soda  in  molasses.  Fill  muffin  tins  one-half  full  and 
bake  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes.  Chopped  nuts,  raisins  or 
dates  will  make  this  good  recipe  even  better. 

COFFEE  CAKE 
Miss  Ellen  Holt 

%  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

V2  cup  butter  1%  cups  flour 

1/2  cup  milk  2  small  tsp.  baking  powder 

Mix  sugar,  butter,  milk  and  eggs,  and  add  dry  ingredients. 
Sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar. 

CORN  BREAD 
Miss  Julia  C.  Lathrop 

1  egg  1  level  tsp.  baking  powder 

3  tbsp.  melted  lard  V2  cup  cream 

1  level  tsp.  salt  V2  cup  corn  meal 

y2  cup  flour 

Beat  egg  and  salt  with  spoon.  Dissolve  soda  in  least  possible 
water,  and  add  to  cream.  Then  add  cream  to  egg.  Add  melted  lard 
to  cream  and  egg,  then  add  corn  meal  and  flour,  and  give  all  a  good 
stir.    Pour  into  pan  in  which  you  have  melted  the  lard,  and  bake. 


10  BREADS 

CORN  MEAL  PANCAKES 
Mrs.  John  T.  McCutcheon 

2  tbsp.  corn  meal  1  egg 

2  tbsp.  sour  milk  or  butter-         V2  cup  hot  water 
milk  1  tbsp.  white  flour 

Pinch  of  salt,  sugar,  and  soda 
Scald  corn  meal,  add  yolk  of  egg  and  buttermilk  with  soda, 
white  flour,  salt  and  sugar.     Mix  well.    Add  well  beaten  white  of 
egg.    Have  pan  hot ;  fry  in  bacon  grease.    If  too  dry  add  more  but- 
termilk and  grease. 

GRAHAM  BREAD  WITH  NUTS  AND  RAISINS 
Mrs.  Charles  E.  Merriam 

iy2  cups  sour  milk,  or  cream  V^  cup  molasses 

V2  cup  sugar  3  tbsp.  melted  shortening 

2  tsp.   soda  1  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  flour  2  cups  graham  flour 

Raisins  and  nuts,  to  suit  taste,  or  figs  may  be  used.  Cinnamon, 
nutmeg  and  allspice,  in  small  quantities,  to  suit  taste. 

NEW  ENGLAND  BROWN  BREAD 
Mrs.  Walter  L.  Fisher 

2  cups  Indian  meal  1  cup  rj^e  meal 
V2  cup  molasses                               1  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  soda  Nearly  1  qt.  milk 

Steam  four  hours.  If  rye  cannot  be  procured  use  pumpernickle 
flour.  Use  brown  bread  steamer,  or  baking  powder  tins,  but  do  not 
fill  to  the  top. 

NUT  BREAD 
Mrs.  Duane  T.  McNabb 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  sugar  4  cups  flour 

2  cups  sweet  milk  4  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  English  walnuts,  chopped 
Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  other  ingredients,  make  in 
two  loaves.    Let  rise  fifteen  minutes  in  the  pans,  and  bake  forty-five 
minutes  in  moderate  oven. 


BREADS  ,  11 

OAT  CAKES 

Mrs.  George  C.  Clinch 

4  cups  Quaker  oats  or  oatmeal      ^  cup  lard 
2  cups    flour  y^,  cup  butter 

11/^   cups  sugar  1  tsp.  salt 

1/2  cup  boiling  water  1  tsp.  soda 

Stir  soda  in  boiling  water.  Add  enough  milk  to  enable  them 
to  be  rolled  very  thin. 

POP-OVERS 
Mrs.  R.  N.  Schuchardt 

2  eggs  %  tsp.  salt 

y^  tbsp.  butter,  melted  1  cup  flour 

1  cup  milk 

Mix  salt  and  flour,  adding  milk  gradually,  in  order  to  obtain  a 
smooth  batter.  Add  well  beaten  eggs  and  butter.  Beat  two  min- 
utes. Turn  into  very  hot  gem  pans,  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven. 

REAL  RHODE  ISLAND  JOHNNY  CAKE 
Mrs.  Donald  Bain  Murray 

2  cups  white  corn  meal  1  tsp.  salt 

1  tbsp.  sugar  Boiling  water 

Cold  milk 

Place  meal  and  salt  in  cooking  bowl,  pour  over  it  enough  boil- 
ing water  to  scald  every  grain,  but  not  enough  to  make  it  thin. 
Cover  and  let  stand  until  it  stops  steaming.  Thin  with  cold  milk 
to  consistency  of  thick  batter.  It  must  be  thick  enough  to  stand, 
but  thin  enough  to  handle  with  a  spoon.  Fry  on  pancake  grid- 
dle in  bacon  fat,  or  other  shortening,  slowly.  The  cakes  should  be 
brown  and  crusty,  taking  about  ten  minutes  for  each  side.  Serve 
hot  with  butter  or  bacon. 

RIBBON  SANDWICHES 

Miss  Harriet  E.  Vittum 

Boiled  ham  Green  olives 

Nut  meats  Cottage  cheese 

Sardines  Mustard 

Salt  and  pepper  Paprika 

Cut  a  loaf  of  two-day-old  home  made  bread  into  very  thin,  even 
slices,  trim  off  the  crust,  and  butter.  On  one  buttered  slice  spread  a 
thin  layer  of  boiled  ham,  ground  fine,  and  season  to  taste  with  a 


12  BREADS 

little  mustard ;  place  upon  this  another  slice  of  buttered  bread  and 
spread  with  ground  green  olives  mixed  with  ground  nut  meats ;  add 
another  slice  of  buttered  bread,  and  spread  with  cottage  cheese, 
rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  cream,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pa- 
prika add  another  layer  of  bread  and  spread  with  sardines,  rubbed 
smooth ;  cover  with  a  slice  of  bread,  buttered  side  down.  Wrap  in  a 
moist  napkin  and  cover  with  a  heavy  weight ;  allow  to  stand  from 
three  hours  to  over  night  then  remove  the  napkin  and  with  a  sharp 
knife  cut  down  in  slices,  one-half  inch  thick,  and  the  result  is  a  plate- 
ful of  attractive,  delicious  ribbon  sandwiches,  most  desirable  for 
afternoon  tea  or  picnics. 

SALT  RISING  BREAD 
Miss   Isabel  Mariner  Mitchell 

Flour  1  pt.  scalding  water 

1%  tsp.  salt  1  pt.  milk 

To  scalding  water  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter, 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  salt ;  beat  until  smooth  and  full  of  air  bub- 
bles. Cover  closely,  stand  in  pan  of  warm  water  and  keep  in  warm 
place  all  night.  In  the  morning  scald  milk,  set  aside  until  luke- 
warm ;  add  one  teaspoon  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  that 
will  not  pour  from  a  spoon.  Turn  into  this  the  salt-rising,  which 
should  be  very  light  and  emit  a  very  unpleasant  odor.  Beat  thorr 
oughly  and  continuously  for  three  minutes,  cover  with  a  towel,  set 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  keep  warm  until  very  light,  about  two 
hours.  Add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  dough,  knead  thoroughly 
until  smooth  and  elastic,  divide  into  loaves,  place  in  greased  pans, 
cover  and  when  very  light  bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour.  This 
must  be  kept  very  much  warmer  than  yeast  bread,  or  it  will  not  rise. 
This  is  a  very  old  recipe. 

SHORT  BREAD 
Miss  Estelle  Frances  Ward 

%  lb.  butter  3  cups  flour,  well  sifted 

%  cup  powdered  sugar 

Mix  in  bowl  by  hand,  work  sugar  into  butter  and  work  flour  in 
gradually  on  board.  Put  on  paper  and  roll  one-fourth  inch  thick. 
Cut  into  rounds  and  prick  with  fork.  Bake  until  light  brown  in 
a  moderate  oven,  about  one-half  hour.  If  desired  add  caraway  seeds. 

SOUR  CREAM  MUFFINS 
Mrs.  A.  P.  Bodman 

2  eggs,  unbeaten  I/2  tsp.  soda 

1  tbsp.  sugar  *  Sour  cream 

Vi  tsp.  baking  powder  1%  cups  flour 

A  little  salt 
Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  soda,  sugar,  and  salt.     Put 


BREADS  13 

eggs  into  a  half -pint  cup,  and  fill  the  cup  with  sour  cream.  Pour 
wet  ingredients  into  dry  and  stir  all  together  as  you  pour.  Bake 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

SOUFFLE  PANCAKES 
Mrs.  Leeds  Mitchell 

6  eggs  1/4  tsp.  salt 

4  tbsp.  flour  3  small  tsp.  sugar 

%  pt.  cream 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  sugar  and  salt,  flour  and  cream.  Mix 
well.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  they  can  be  turned  upside  down ; 
fold  into  mixture.  Do  not  stir.  Make  cakes  fairly  thick.  Have 
pan  very  hot  and  serve  at  once.  These  cakes  cannot  stand  without 
being  spoiled. 

SPIDER  OR  SPOON  BREAD 
Mrs.  Jean  Cross  Weis 


1  qt.  milk 

1  tbsp.   sugar 

1  cup  yellow  corn  meal 

3  tbsp.  butter 

3  eggs 

1/2  tsp.  salt 

Heat  milk,  stir  in  meal  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  salt,  sugar  and  butter,  and  then  the  beaten  eggs. 
Pour  into  a  spider  or  baking  dish,  and  bake  for  one-half  hour. 
SerV'C  hot  with  honey,  syrup  or  butter.  May  take  the  place  of  pota- 
toes for  a  meal. 

TEA  RUSKS 

Mrs.  Edmund  Andrews 

1  pt.  milk  %  cake  compressed  yeast 

2  tbsp.  sugar  2  eggs 

2  oz.  butter  or  lard  3  or   more   pts.   flour 

1  tsp.  salt 

Scald  milk,  add  to  shortening  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When 
cool  add  salt,  sugar  and  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water. 
Beat  for  five  minutes,  cover  and  stand  in  warm  place  until  light. 
Add  egg,  w^ell  beaten,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Knead  lightly  for  fifteen  minutes,  cover  again  and  stand  in  a  warm 
place  until  double  its  bulk.  Roll  out  about  one  inch  thick,  cut  into 
biscuits,  place  in  greased  pans,  cover,  let  stand  one-half  hour  and 
bake  in  quick  oven  about  fifteen  minutes.  Varnish  top  with  sugar 
and  white  of  egg. 


14  BREADS 

WAFFLES 
Mrs.  Mark  P.  Mears 

1  pt.  flour  1  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs  1  pt.  buttermilk  or  sour  milk 

%  tsp.  soda 

Sift  flour  and  salt,  add  milk,  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Fold  in  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 
Add  enough  flour  to  drop  from  spoon  easily.  If  mixed  twenty 
minutes  or  so,  before  baking,  the  waffles  are  lighter.  Have  irons 
hot  and  well  greased.  Reverse  soon  after  filling  so  sides  will  brown 
evenly. 

WAFFLES 

Mrs.    Archibald   J.   F.   MacBean 

2  cups  flour  2  cups  milk 

2  eggs  2  tbsp.  melted  butter 

4  tsp.  baking  powder  1  tsp.  salt 

To  the  flour,  sifted  with  salt  and  baking  powder,  add  the  milk, 
a  small  quantity  at  a  time,  beating  all  the  time  to  get  a  smooth  bat- 
ter. Add  the  yolks,  well  beaten,  the  melted  butter,  and  last  the 
whites  beaten  stiff.  Fry  in  hot  waffle  irons.  They  will  be  thin  and 
crisp,  and  light  as  a  feather. 

GENERAL  RULES  FOR  LEAVENING  AGENTS 

Miss  Jenny  H.  Snow 

1.  All  standard  baking  powders  are  of  comparatively  the  same 
strength,  so  use  the  same  amount  in  substituting  for  one  another. 

2.  Use  two  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  to  one  cup  of 
flour. 

3.  One  teaspoon  of  soda  is  equal  in  strength  to  thrcQ  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  so  in  substituting  baking  powder  for  soda, 
use  three  times  as  much  baking  powder  as  soda. 

4.  Use  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  with  one  cup  of  sour  milk. 

5.  One  teaspoon  of  soda  is  the  maximum  amount  to  use  with 
one  cup  of  molasses. 

6.  In  sour  milk  mixtures,  such  as  griddle  cakes,  both  soda 
and  baking  powder  are  necessary.  With  one  cup  of  sour  milk  and 
one  cup  of  flour,  use  one-half  of  soda  and  one-half  of  baking  pow- 
der, the,  two  together  being  equal  to  the  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  required  for  one  cup  of  flour.  With  one  cup  of  sour  milk 
and  two  cups  of  flour,  use  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  and  two  and 


BREADS     ♦  15 

one-half  of  baking  powder,  the  two  together  to  the  four  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder  required  for  two  cups  of  flour. 

7.  When  eggs  are  used,  reduce  the  amount  of  baking  powder. 
One  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  is  equal  to  two  eggs. 

8.  In  yeast  mixtures,  the  amount  of  yeast  to  be  used  does  not 
depend  on  the  amount  of  flour  or  liquid,  but  on  the  food,  tempera- 
ture and  length  of  time.  In  general  use,  one  cake  to  three  cups  of 
liquid.  In  shortening  the  process  two  or  three  cakes  of  yeast  may 
be  used. 


16 


CAKES 


The  loaf  of  faultless  cake. 


— Stowe. 


ANGEL  FOOD— THREE  SIZES 
Mrs.  Albert  P.  Allen 


(1) 

Whites  of  5  eggs 

A  little  salt 

14  tsp.  cream  tartar 

%  cup  sugar 

%  cup  flour 

%  tsp.  flavoring 


(2) 
Whites  of  8  eggs 
A  little  salt 
%  tsp.  cream  tartar 
II/4  cups  sugar 
1  cup  flour 


(3) 
Whites  of  10  e^s 
A  little  salt 
1  tsp.  creajQ  tartar 
11/4  cups  sugar 
1^/4  cups  flour 
Flavoring 


Flavoring 

Beat  eggs  and  salt,  add  cream  tartar  and  finish  beating  very- 
light  ;  gradually  add  sugar  and  flavoring.  Very  lightly  and  care- 
fully fold  in  flour.  Bake  in  ungreased  funnel  pans,  from  twenty- 
five  minutes  to  an  hour  according  to  size  of  cake.  Place  cake  in  an 
almost  cold  oven,  increasing  heat  as  cake  rises.  If  oven  is  too  hot, 
open  door  and  cool  off.  When  cake  shrinks  to  level  of  pan  it  is 
done.    Flour  and  sugar  should  be  sifted  seven  times. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 
Mrs.  D.  K.  Crighton 


11/4    cups    apple   sauce,    un- 
sweetened and  mashed 
1/2  cup  butter 
Spice  to  taste 


2  cups  flour 
1  tsp.  soda 
1  cup   raisins 
1  cup  sugar 


Bake  sixty  minutes  in  loaf  in  moderate  oven. 

BIRTHDAY  CAKE 
Mrs.   Geo.   C.   Sikes 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  3  cups   pastry  flour,   or 

%  cup  butter   .  cups 

Whites  of  6  eggs  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Rose  flavoring  1  cup  milk 

Bake  in  three  layers,  and  fill  with  chocolate  or  any  desired 
filling.    Frost  w^ith  pink  icing. 


CAKES  17 

BRAZIL  NUT  CAKE 
Mrs.  F.   O.  Bauman 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

4  eggs  1  lb.  stoned  dates,  left  whole 

1  wine  glass  fruit  juice  1  cup  Brazil  nuts,  left  whole 

2  cups  English  walnuts,  1   scant  tsp.  salt 

halved  1  box  candied  cherries,   left 

1  tsp.  vanilla  whole 

1  cup  flour 

Beat  sugar  and  yolks.  Mix  fruit  with  some  of  the  flour,  and 
nuts  with  the  rest.  Combine  all  the  ingredients,  except  whites  of 
eggs.  Add  those  last,  well  beaten.  Bake  slowly  for  one  hour  in  a 
loaf. 

COCOANUT  LAYER  CAKE 
Mrs.  John  V.  Farwell 

2  cups  sugar  3  eggs. 

2  tbsp,    butter,  melted  1  cup   sweet  milk 
21/2  cups  flour                                 1  tsp.  soda 

Lemon  flavoring  2  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

Bake  in  layers. 

FILLING 

1  cocoanut,  grated  2  eggs 

1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind  i/o  cup  sugar 

Mix,  heat  it  through  and  spread  on  each  layer. 

COUNTY  COMMITTEE  CAKE 
Mrs.   Wm.  Harrison  Cade 

1  cup  sugar  %  cup  milk 

%   cup   butter  2  cups  flour 

3  eggs  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

LEMON  FILLING 

1  egg  V2  cup  water 
1/2  cup  sugar                                   2   tbsp.   flour 

Juice  of  a  lemon  Butter  size  of  a  walnut 

Melt  butter,  stir  in  flour.  Add  water  and  sugar.  Boil  gently 
five  minutes.     Pour  on  beaten  egg  and  add  lemon  juice. 

CREAM  SPICE  CAKE 
Mrs.   T.  O.  Wallace 

2  cups  brown  sugar  I/2   tsp.  cloves 
1/2  cup  butter                                    2  cups  flour 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  tsp.  cinnamon  1  cup  sour  cream 

1  tsp.  soda 


18  CAKES 

DEVIL'S  FOOD 

Mrs.  Harry  Kocher 

1  cup  sugar  2  sqrs.  Baker's  chocolate 

Butter,  size  of  egg  Yolk  of  1  egg 

1  cup  sweet  milk  IV2  cups  flour 

1  level  tsp.  soda  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

Melt  butter  and  sugar  over  steam.  Cream  egg  and  sugar,  dis- 
solve soda  in  milk,  add  alternately  with  flour  and  baking  powder. 
Then  stir  in  chocolate  mixture,  vanilla  and  nut  meats  if  desired. 
Bake  in  two  layers,  or  sponge  cake  tin,  in  moderate  oven. 

DOLLY  CAKE 

Mrs.  Clara  Louise  Burnham 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

Vs  cup  butter  1^4  cups  flour 

%   cup  milk  4  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  vanilla  i/^  tsp.  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  eggs  very  light  and  add.  Sift 
flour,  with  salt  and  baking  powder,  twice,  then  add  alternately  with 
the  milk  in  small  quantities.  Flavor.  Bake  in  two  layers,  or  in  a 
loaf. 

FRUIT  CAKE 
Miss  Lillian  A.  Kemp 

11/4  lb-  butter  %  lb.  candied  lemon  peel 

11/4  lb.  dark  brown  sugar  i/4  lb.  Jordan  almonds 

1V4  lb.  flour  1/2  cup  dark  molasses 

12  eggs  1/4  lb.  candied  cherries 

4  lbs.  raisins  1  cup  strong  coffee 

3  lbs.  currants  '  1  nutmeg,  grated 

1/^  lb.  dates  1  tbsp.  allspice 

1/2  lb.  layer  figs  1  tbsp.  cloves 

1/2  lb.  citron  1  tbsp.  cinnamon 

1/4  lb.  candied  orange  peel  2  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

2  cups  orange  juice  1  tsp.  soda 

Cream  butter,  ?dd  sugar  and  eggs  which  have  been  beaten 
very  light.  Mix  and  sift  flour,  soda,  cream  of  tartar,  and  spices. 
Prepare  the  fruit,  except  the  citron,  and  dredge  'VNdth  some  of  the 
flour.  Add  to  the  first  mixture,  molasses,  coffee,  orange  juice, 
flour,  fruit  and  chopped  almonds.  ^lix  very  thoroughly  and  fill 
pans  as  follows :  First  make  a  layer  of  the  cake  mixture  one-half 
inch  thick,  spread  evenly  with  finely  shredded  citron,  and  repeat 
the  layers  until  the  pr.n  is  about  three-fourths  full,  and  all  ma- 
terials  are  used.     Decorate   with  almonds,    strips   of   figs,    green 


CAKES  19 

part  of  citron  and  candied  cherries.  Bake  in  slow  oven  (250°) 
about  four  hours.  Use  deep  cake  pans,  and  line  with  four  layers 
of  white  paper,  buttering  the  top  sheet  only. 

HICKORY-NUT  CAKE 
Mrs.  Amos  W.  Walker 

1%  cups  sugar  2  cups  flour 

1/2  cup  butter  1  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

Whites  of  4  eggs  %  tsp.    soda 

1  cup  raisins,  chopped  1  cup  nuts 
%  cup  sweet  milk 

Bake  in  loaf  in  a  moderate  oven. 

ICE  BOX  TORTE 

Mrs.  Edward  Gudeman 

2  dozen  lady  fingers  4  cakes  sweet  chocolate 
%  tbsp.  butter                                 1  cup  milk 

6  eggs  Vanilla 

Line  spring  form,  or  melon  mold  with  lady  fingers.  Melt 
chocolate,  milk,  butter  ancj  sugar  in  double  boiler.  When  cool 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  then  the  beaten  whites  and  vanilla. 
Pour  in  form  over  lady  fingers.  Put  in  ice  box  for  six  hours,  or 
more,  then  serve  with  whipped  cream  on  top. 

IMPERIAL  SPONGE  CAKE 
Mrs.  Lottie  Holman  O'Neill 

6  eggs  1  rounding  cup  flour 

iy2  cups   sugar  ^  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

Vanilla  Pinch  of  salt 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eg^rs  stiff.  Boil  sugar  and  three  table- 
spoons water  to  a  thread,  add  to  the  beaten  whites.  Beat  the 
yolks  to  a  straw  color,  add  to  the  whites.  Put  in  salt  and  vanilla. 
Mix  cream  of  tartar  to  flour  and  beat  thoroughly  into  the  mixture. 
Put  into  an  angel  cake  pan,  in  a  cold  oven,  with  one  burner  lighted, 
and  bake  until  it  shinks  from  pan.  Turn  over  and  let  cool.  This 
is  far  superior  to  any  ordinary  sunshine  cake. 

LAYER  CAKE 

Mrs.   H.    S.   Young 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

1  egg  Butter  size  of  a  walnut 

Pinch  of  salt  •      1  tsp.  baking  powder,  level 

Milk 

Mix  well  tosrether  sugar,  salt  and  flour^  sifted  with  baking 
powder.     Melt  butter  in  measuring  cup ;  break  into  this  an  un- 


20  CAKES 

beaten  egg  and  fill  the  cup  with  milk.  Pour  into  the  dry  mixture 
and  beat  all  together  rapidly  for  a  minute.  Flavor  to  suit  taste  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.     Delicious  with  whipped  cream. 

Here  are  some  ways  of  using  the  same  recipe: 

1 — For  steam  batter  pudding. 

2 — ^With  one-fourth  the  amount  of  sugar,  it  makes  the  '*best 
ever"  muffins. 

3 — Add  nuts,  raisins  and  spice,  bake  in  tins — delicious  her- 
mits the  result. 

MY  FIRST  CAKE— STILL  GOOD 
Miss  Harriet  E.  Vittum 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

Whites  of  5  eggs  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  almond  flavoring 
Rub  butter  until  very  soft,  add  the  sugar  and  rub  to  a  smooth 
cream,  add  the  milk  very  slowly,  then  the  flour  into  which  has  been 
sifted  the  baking  powder.  Last  fold  in  gently,  but  thoroughly,  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  quite  stiff,  and  the  flavoring.  Bake  in 
tube  pan  with  a  fairly  hot  oven  for  the  first  ten  minutes  and  then 
with  the  heat  reduced. 

OLD  VIENNA  CHRISTIMAS  CAKE 
Mrs.  John  Leeming 

6  eggs  iy2  cups  almonds,  ground 

1  large  cup  sugar  1  lemon,    juice    and    grated 

1/2  cup  citron,  chopped  rind 

Stir  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  until  thick  as  cream ;  then  add 
the  juice  and  rind  of  lemon,  almonds,  and  citron ;  lastly  the  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Grease  little  tins  well,  or  one  big  rather 
shallow  tin ;  bake  in  moderate  oven,  but  have  it  very  hot  to  start, 
lower  heat.  This  cake  will  keep  fresh  and  moist  for  two  months 
or  more. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE 
Mrs.  C.  R.  Blanchard 

1  scant  cup  sugar  1  egg 

1  heaping  tbsp.  melted  but-  1  heaping  cup  flour 

ter  1  heaping  tsp.  baking  pow- 

Milk                                           •  der 

1/4  lb.  walnuts,  cut  up 

Put  melted  butter  in  a  cup,  break  in  egg,  fill  cup  up  with 
milk,  add  other  ingredients. 


CAKES  21 


PO] 

RK  CAKE 

Mrs. 

John  Milloy 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

2%  cups  flour 

%  lb.  fat  salt  pork 

%  cup  molasses 

1  egg 

1/^  lb.  raisins 

1  cup  boiling  water 

1  tsp.  cinnamon 

%  tsp.  soda 

V2  tsp.  each,  cloves  and  mace 

Chop  pork  and  raisins,  add  boiling  water,  sugar  and  mo- 
lasses, and  egg  well  beaten.  Mix  well,  sift  in  flour,  add  spices  and 
soda  dissolved  in  tablespoon  water.  Beat  well ;  bake  about  an  hour 
in  a  slow  oven. 

POUND  CAKE 

Miss  Grertrude  Durkin 

2  cups  butter  4  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  %  tsp.  mace 

8  eggs  2  tbsp.  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten  until 
thick,  then  the  milk,  flour  and  whites  of  eggs.  Pour  into  a  square 
tin  and  bake  an  hour. 

PUALINE  FILLING  FOR  CAKE 
Mrs.  Frank  M.  S.  Brazelton 

2  cups  confectioners'  sugar  2  cups  nuts,  walnuts,  peeans, 

%  cup  cream  etc.,   as  liked 

1  cup  maple  syrup 

Boil  sugar,  syrup  and  cream  together  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball. 
Cool  somewhat  and  beat  until  creamy ;  add  nuts.  Split  cake  layers, 
put  filling  between  and  on  top,  making  six  thin  layers.  Decorate 
top  of  cake  with  whole  nut  meats.  The  trick  of  success  is  to  have 
the  filling  cool,  but  not  quite  so  cold  as  to  be  dropped  on  wax  paper 
for  candy,  and  the  cake  warm.  Then  the  two  fairly  melt  together. 
Use  flat-bladed  knife  dipped  in  hot  water  to  smooth  if  necessary. 
Cake  should  stand  until  cold  before  being  cut. 

PREMIUM  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Miss  Katherine   Andrin 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  butter  S'^A  cuns  sifted  flour 

Yolks  of  5  eggs  2  heaping  tsps.  baking  pow- 

Whites  of  2  eggs  der 

Flavoring 

Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs  after 


22  CAKES 

they  have  been  well  beaten.  Then  stir  in  milk,  beat  the  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  that  also;  now  put  in  flour,  baking 
powder  having  been  sifted  with  it.     Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins. 

PILLING 

Whites  of  3  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  cups  sugar  %  cake  chocolate,  grated 

^2  cup  water 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff;  boil  sugar  and  water  until  al- 
most candy  (the  stringy  state),  take  it  hot  from  the  fire  and  pour 
very  slowly  on  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  beating  quite  fast.  Add 
chocolate  and  vanilla  extract.  Stir  all  until  cool,  then  spread  be- 
tween each  layer  and  over  the  top  and  sides. 

ROLL  JELLY  CAKE 
Mrs.  A.  P.  Bodman 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

3  eggs  1  tsp. soda 

Salt  2  tsp.  cream  tartar 

1  tbsp.  cold  water 
Beat  yolks  and  whites  together,  add  water,  then  the  flour  into 
which  the  cream  tartar  has  been  stirred,  then  the  soda  dissolved  in 
a  little  water.  Bake  in  a  very  thin  sheet.  Turn  out  on  board, 
spread  with  jelly  and  roll  while  hot.  This  is  a  very  old  Connecti- 
cut recipe. 

SPICE  CAKE 
Mrs.  George  Pretzel 

1  cup  strong,  cold  coffee  1  cup  raisins 

1  cup  butter  %  cup  citron 

2  cups  sugar  3  eggs 

1/2  cup  milk  1/2  tsp.  nutmeg 

3  cups  flour  1/2  tsp.  allspice 

1%  tsp.  baking  powder 

ALMOND  FILLING 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  1  tbsp.  vanilla 

1/2  cup  sour  cream  %  cup  chopped  almonds 

SUNSHINE  CAKE 
Mrs.  H.  N.  Rose 

4  eggs  2  cups  flour 
1%  cups  sugar                                 i/^  cup  water 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 


CAKES  23 

Beat  together  the  sugar  and  egg  yolks  for  ten  minutes.  Add  to 
them  the  flour  and  beat  again.  Lastly  fold  into  the  mixture  the 
egg  whites  beaten  very  stiff.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a  greased 
and  floured  Turk's-head,  in  a  slow  oven. 

WALNUT  MOCHA  CAKE 
Miss  Gertrude  Durkin 

V2  cup  butter  1%  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2%  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  cold  coffee  Whites  of  3  eggs 

1  cup  broken  walnut  meats 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  mix  alternately  the  coffee  and  flour, 
sifted  with  the  baking  pow^der.  Then  stir  in  the  walnut  meats  and 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  a  deep  pan  and  cover  with  a 
white  frosting,  garnish  with  half  walnuts. 


24 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 

Sweet  cukes  and  short  cakes,  ginger  cakes  and  honey  cakes, 
and  the  whole  family  of  cakes.  — Washington  Irving. 

ALMOND  COOKIES 
Mrs.  Lottie  Holman  O'Neill 

1  cup  white  sugar  %  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar  4%   cups  flour 

1  cup  shortening,  melted  2  tsp.   soda 

1  cup   almonds,   chopped  1  tbsp.   cinnamon,   ground 

3  eggs,  well  beaten 

Mix  well  sugar,  cinnamon  and  salt,  add  eggs,  shortening  and 
almonds;  then  flour^  sifted  several  times  with  soda.  If  too  dry 
add  a  little  more  shortening.  Pack  in  a  loaf  tin  as  firmly  as  possi- 
ble and  let  stand  over  night.  Slice  very  thin  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.     These  are  delicious  for  afternoon  tea. 

BROWNIES 
Mrs.  W.  F.  Dummer 

1  cup  brown  sugar  %  tsp.  baking  powder 

%  cup  flour  2  eggs 

Yo   cup   walnuts,   chopped 

If  the  eggs  are  small,  it  is  better  to  use  less  flour,  otherwise 
the  Brownies  are  apt  to  be  very  dry. 

CINNAMON  STARS  FOR  CHRISTMAS 
Mrs.  F.  O.  Bauman 


Whites  of  8  eggs,  beaten  to         Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon 

a  froth  1^/4  lbs.  almonds,  grated  but 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar  not  blanched 

1  tbsp.  cinnamon 

Mix  eggs,  cinnamon,  almonds  and  lemon.  Add  the  sugar. 
Cut  into  star  shape,  let  stand  one  hour  before  cutting  out.  Sprinkle 
board  with  flour  and  granulated  sugar  mixed. 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES  25 

CHOCOLATE-CHOCOLATES 

Mrs.  Samuel  Dauchy 

%  cup  sugar  1^  cups  flour,  sifted 

1/4  cup  butter  11/2  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  eggs,  beaten  separately  I/2  cup  milk 

2  tbsp.  chocolate,  melted  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  yolks  of  eggs.  Add  slowly  milk  and 
some  of  the  flour.  Continue  beating,  add  remainder  of  flour,  bak- 
ing powder,  chocolate  and  whites  of  eggs  last.  Bake  in  a  cake  tin 
for  twelve  individual  cakes,  two  inches  in  diameter,  round  bottom 
preferred.  Cover  with  chocolate  frosting,  add  vanilla  to  melted 
chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  COOKIES 
Mrs.  Theodore  O.  Weiss 

1  cup  sugar  i/4  tsp.  baking  powder 
V2  cup  butter,  melted                    2  eggs,  unbeaten 

%  cup  flour  2  sqrs.  chocolate,  melted 

%  cup  English  walnuts 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  break  in  eggs,  add  chocolate,  flour, 
baking  powder  and  nuts.  Bake  in  very  slow  oven  forty  to  fifty 
minutes. 

CORNFLAKE  WAFER     • 
Mrs.  Jean  Cross  Weis 

2  eggs  «  2^  cups  cornflakes 
1  cup  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Beat  eggs  very  light,  add  stigar  gradually,  then  the  nuts  and 
flakes.  Drop  on  cooky  tray  by  teaspoonful  and  bake  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Lift  from  tray  very  carefully 
with  broad  knife  or  spatula. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Mrs.  Irvin  McDowell 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

1  cup  milk  2  cups  flour,  sifted 

1/2  tsp.  salt  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Beat  sugar,  eggs  and  salt  until  creamy,  add  milk,  flour  and 
baking  powder.  Mix  well  and  add  sufficient  flour  to  roll  on  board. 
Cut  with  doughnut  cutter  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


26  COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 

DOUGHNUTS 
Mrs.  George  W.   Scupham 

1  tsp.  butter,  melted  2  eggs 

ll^  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  tsp.  nutmeg  Flour  to  roll 

Pinch  of  salt  4  tsp.  baking  powder 

FILLED  COOKIES 
Mrs.  Mary  Stevens  Hegler 

1  cup  sugar  V2   cup  sweet  milk 

1  egg  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  tsp.  soda  5    cups    flour,    or    more    if 

1  cup     Crisco  and     butter  needed 

mixed 

Roll  very  thin,  cut  round.  Put  one-half  teaspoon  of  filling  in 
center  of  cooky,  cover  with  another  cooky  and  bake. 

FILLING 

1  cup  raisins,  figs  or  dates,  chopped 
1/2  cup  sugar  i/^  cup  water 

1  tbsp.   flour  Vanilla  to  taste 

Boil  and  cool  before  spreading  on  cooky.  Rule  makes  about 
forty-five. 

FILLED  CUP  CAKES 
Mrs.  Arthur  J.  O'Neill 

%  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

1/4  cup  butter  li/^  cups  flour  (scant) 

%  cup  milk  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.     Add  egg  yolks,  beaten  very  light. 

Then  alternately  milk  and  flour,  sifted  with  baking  powder.     Last 

add  well  beaten  whites. 

CUSTARD  FILLING 

1  egg  yolk  %  tbsp.  cornstarch 

2  tbsp.  sugar  %  cup  milk 
Mix  and  cook  in  double  boiler. 

Cut  out  hole  in  top  of  cakes.  Remove  cake  and  fill  in  cavity 
with  filling.  Then  replace  light  baked  top  to  hide  where  filling  has 
been  placed.     Cover  with  frosting. 

This  makes  ten  cakes. 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES  27 

GINGER  BREAD 
Mrs.  Ira  Couch  Wood 

2  eggs  1  level  tsp.  soda 

1  eup  sour  cream  14  tsp.  salt 

%  cup  molasses  V2  tsp.  ginger 

%  cup  white  sugar  ^  tsp.  cinnamon 

2  cups  flour 

Beat  eggs,  stir  in  sour  cream,  molasses  and  sugar,  add  season- 
ings and  sifted  flour.  Dissolve  soda  in  one  tablespoon  hot  water 
and  beat  in  at  the  last.  Bake  in  shallow  pan  and  serve  hot  with 
butter  and  cream  cheese. 

GINGER  COOKIES  (SOFT) 
Mrs.  Harold  F.  White 

1  cup   lard  1  cup  hot  water,  or  sour  milk 

1  cup  sugar  4  cups  flour 

1  cup  molasses  2  eggs  (can  be  omitted) 

1  tsp.  soda,  dissolved  in  the  hot  water 
Beat  well,  drop  with  spoon  in  pan  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

GINGER  SNAPS 
Mrs,  Mark  P.  Mears 

2  cups  molasses  1  egg 

1  cup  sugar  1  heaping  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  butter  1  tsp.   ginger 

1/2  tsp.  cinnamon  %    tsp.    salt 

Flour 

Mix  hard  and  roll  thin. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  WAFERS 

Miss  Lydia  Earle  Whitted 

3  tbsp.  sugar  4  eggs 

1  tbsp.   butter  1  teacup  flour 

Nutmeg  or  mace 

'  Make  batter  very  thin.  Butter  the  wafer  irons  and  have  them 
very  hot.  As  you  take  from  the  iron,  roll  on  a  smooth  clean  stick 
about  one  inch  in  diameter.  This  recipe  is  over  a  hundred  vears 
old. 


28  COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 

HICKORY   NUT   GINGER   BREAD 
Mrs.  Duane  T.  McNabb 

%  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

%  cup  molasses  2  cups  sifted  flour 

1/4  cup  melted  butter  •  1  level  tsp.  soda 

1  egg  1  level  tsp.   ginger 

Pinch  of  salt 

Three  tablespoons  shelled  and  chopped  hickory  nuts  mixed 
w4th  3  tablespoons  light  brown  sugar  and  strewn  on  top  of  cake 
before  baking.  Bake  in  shallow  pan  fifteen  minutes  in  moderate 
oven. 

ORANGE  TEA  CAKES 
Miss  Mary  I.  Hunter 

1  cup  sugar  II/2  cups  flour  (Swansdown) 
3  tbsp.  butter  1%  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  eggs  -  %  cup  orange  juice 

Grated  rind  of  1  orange 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  very  thoroughly, 
then  grated  rind  (just  yellow  part),  then  juice  and  flour  alter- 
nately.    Bake  in  gem  tin. 

PEANUT  COOKIES 
Mrs.  C.  R.  Blanchard 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  heaping  tbsp.  butter  1%  cups  flour 

1  egg  1  heap.  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cream  sugar  and  egg  well.  Let  milk  come  to  a  boil  and  add 
butter,  then  add  to  sugar  and  egg.  Beat  well.  This  batter  is  very 
thin.  Then  add  flour  and  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  long,  narrow 
pan. 

PILLING 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  %  cup  butter 

2  tbsp.  cream  or  milk 
Cream  butter  and  sugar;  thin  with  cream.     Cut  the  cake  in 
narrow  pieces;  frost  on  all  sides;  cover  or  roll  them  in  one  and 
one-half  pounds  finely  ground  peanuts. 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 


29 


PLAIN  COUNTRY  COOKIES 
Mrs.  Edward  Gudeman 


1  qt.  flour 

1  tsp.  cream  tartar 

1  tsp.  soda 


4  eggs 

1%  cups  sugar 

1  cup  butter 

2  tbsp.  water 

Sift  cream  tartar  into  flour.    Roll  rather  thin.    Very  nice  for 
children. 

ROXBURY  CAKES 
Mrs.  D.  K.  Crighton 


2  eggs 

%  cup  butter 

%  cup  sugar 

1/^  cup  molasses 

Nuts  and  raisins 

Bake  in  muffin  tins  in  quick  oven. 


1%  cups  flour 
%  cup  sour  milk 

1/2 


tsp.  soda 
1  tsp.  baking  powder 
Cinnamon  and  cloves 


SEED  CAKES 
Miss  E.  Beatrice  Dauchy 

2  cups  sugar  %  cup  sour  cream 

1  cup  butter  Whites  of  2  eggs 

Flour  Y2  tsp.  soda 

Stir  like  cake,  then  mix  with  flour,  prettj^  stiff,  then  roll  thin 
as  pie  crust,  and  sprinkle  with  caraway  seeds.  Roll  again,  cut  and 
bake  as  cookies 


30 


DESSERTS 

'Tis  the  dessert  that  graces  all  the  feast, 
For  an  ill  end  disparages  the  rest, 

— ^William  King. 

APPLE  JOHN 

Miss  Katherine  Andrin 

1  egg,  well  beaten  1  cup  flour,  sifted 

1  tbsp.  butter  1  heaping  tsp.   baking  pow- 

V2  cup  milk  der 

1  pt.  sliced  sour  apples  %  tsp.  salt 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together,  rub  in  butter,  add 
egg  and  milk;  batter  should  be  like  waffle  batter.  Put  apples  in 
•deep  buttered  pie  pan,  spread  butter  over  them  and  pour  batter  in. 
^When  baked,  turn  out  and  cover  with  sugar,  butter  and  grated  nut- 
meg.    Serve  with  cream. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING 
Mrs.  Russell  Tyson 

2  tbsp.  meal  1  qt.  milk 
Small  cup  molasses  %  tsp.  salt 
1  heaping  tsp.  butter  1  egg 

Steam  two  hours  in  double  boiler,  beat  egg,  add,  and  bake  one 
hour. 

BLUEBEKRY  PUDDING 
Mrs.  Edward  F.  Chapin 

3  tbsp.  shortening  IV2  cups  blueberries 
1  cup  sugar  1%  cups  flour 

1  egg  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

%  cup  milk 

Cream  shortening;  add  sugar,  beaten  egg  and  milk,  then  flour 
and  baking  powder,  sifted  together,  and  berries,  dredged  in  flour. 
Bake  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes  in  small  tins  or  pan  and  serve 
with  sauce  for  dessert. 


DESSERTS  31 

/ 
BOILED  COFFEE  SOUFFLE 
Mrs.  Frank  O.  Lowden 

1  qt.  milk  4  eggs 

1  cup  strong  coffee  ^  V2  tsp.  salt 

Sugar  to  taste  (about  8  tbsp.)  3  tbsp.  granulated  gelatin 
Put  the  milk,  coffee,  sugar,  gelatin  and  salt  into  a  double 
boiler;  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  occasionally.  Beat  the  whites  and 
yolks  of  eggs  separately.  Remove  the  boiler  from  the  fire  and  pour 
over  the  beaten  yolks;  return  to  the  fire  and  cook,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Allow  it  to  cool  par- 
tially ;  pour  over  the  beaten  whites ;  stir  all  thoroughly.  Pour  into 
small  molds  or  a  single  large  one ;  place  on  ice  to  cool  and  harden ; 
serv^e  with  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 
Mrs.   Moses  Purvin 

1/2  box  gelatin  1  cup  milk 

1  pt.  milk  1/3  cake  bitter  chocolate 

3  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  cup  of  milk ;  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Boil 
milk,  and  dissolve  chocolate  in  it.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar 
until  light.  Add  gelatin  to  milk;  boil  up,  remove  from  fire  and 
pour  over  eggs.  Stir  until  smooth.  When  cold  add  beaten  whites. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

CINNAMON  APPLES 
Mrs.  Etdward  L.  Murfey 

Jonathan  apples,  pared  and  cored         1  cup  sugar 
Red  cinnamon  candies  6  cups  water 

Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  water.  Use  one-half  ounce  of  candies 
to  each  six  cups  of  syrup.  Boil  apples  gently ;  do  not  cover  the 
pan ;  turn  carefully  so  that  all  parts  of  apples  may  be  colored.  If 
necessary  the  apples  may  be  left  in  the  syrup  after  they  are  done 
to  give  them  a  darker  color. 

CREAMY  RICE  PUDDING      • 
Mrs.  John  Stuart  Coonley 

3  tbsp.   rice  1  qt.  milk 

%  cup  sugar  i/^  cup  cream 

Soak  rice  in  cold  water  over  night.  In  morning  pour  off 
water,  and  mix  all  together,  put  in  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  two« 
hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Add  more  cold  milk  if  it  becomes  thick. 


32  DESSERTS 

DATE  SOUFFLE 

Mrs.  Anna  S.   L.  Brown 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  English  walnuts 

2  eggs  1  cup  dates 

1  tbsp.  flour  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cut  walnuts  into  small  pieces,  and  dates  in  quarters.  Mix  and 
pour  into  greased,  flat  tin,  7x12,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Break  into  small  pieces  and  serve  cold  with 
whipped  cream. 

DIPLOMATIC  CREAM 
;  Miss  Mary  D.  Sturges 

%  box  gelatin  1  pt.  cream 

1/2  cup  cold  water  %  pt.  whipping  cream 

%  cup  sugar  Whites  of  4  eggs 

1  cup  fresh  fruit  or  marrons  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Soak  gelatin  in  water.  Bring  cream  to  boil,  add  gelatin  and 
sugar,  pour  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  stir  well  and 
when  it  begins  to  thicken  add  whipped  cream.  When  thick  enoitgh 
add  fruits  and  one-half  cup  minced  blanched  almonds,  if  desired. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING 

Mrs.  Frank  M.  S.  Brazelton 

8  eggs  1  lb.  finely  sifted  flour 

11/4  lbs.  brown  sugar  1  lb.  seeded  raisins 

3  cups  carrot,  grated  1  lb.  finely  chopped  suet 
3  cups  fine  bread  crumbs  1  lb.  cleaned  currants 

l^  lb.  finely  chopped  mixed  candied  peel 

Mix  ingredients  thoroughly,  adding  sufficient  milk  to  make 
rather  stiff  batter.  Turn  into  floured  mold  or  pudding  cloth,  tie  or 
fasten  securely,  and  boil  hard,  especially  at  first,  one  hour  for  each 
pound  of  ingredients  and  one  for  milk  and  eggs.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce  or  sweetened  and  flavored  white  sauce  as  liked.  Delicious 
hot  or  cold.  Will  keep  for  yesivs  if  well  ^vrapped.  This  is  a  famous 
old  recipe  and  has  been  in  the  family  hundreds  of  years. 


DESSERTS  33 

GELATIN  PLUM  PUDDING 
Mrs.   Irwin  Rosenfels 

1  envelope  gelatin  {Yo  pkg.)         1  cup  coffee 

%  cup  cold  water  l^  cup  citron,  sliced 

y2  tsp.  vanilla  %  cup  nuts,  chopped 

1  cup  raisins,  seeded  i/^  cup  currants 

V2  cup  figs,  cut  fine  11/2  squares  chocolate 

1/2  cup  dates,  stoned  and  cut         1  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar 
Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water.  Cover  the  fruit  with  one  and  one- 
half  cups  cold  w^ater,  and  cook  until  thick.  Melt  chocolate  and  add 
to  milk,  heated  in  double  boiler,  then  add  gelatine  and  sugar,  and 
stir  until  dissolved.  Add  coffee,  then  remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla, 
fruit  and  nuts,  cool  in  molds  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

GOSSAMER  WHIP 
Mrs.   Maud  R.   Turlay 

1  bottle  Avhipping  cream  •  1  tbsp.  gelatine 

1%  cups  marshmallows  1  tbsp.  cold  water 

1  small  can  grated  pineapple        2  tbsp.  boiling  water 
1  small  bottle  maraschino  V2  cup  almonds,  ground 

cherries 
Dissolve  gelatine  in  the  cold  water,  then  in  the  hot  water ;  let 
cool.     Cut  marshmallows  and  cherries  into  small  pieces,   add  the 
cream,  whipped  stiff,  and  the  gelatine.     Set  in  ice  box  until  cold. 

LAKE  GENEVA  SHERBET 
Mrs.  Samuel  Dauchy 

1  qt.  milk  2  cups  sugar 

V2  cup  lemon  juice 
Dissolve  sugar  in  the  lemon  juice,  add  milk  and  freeze. 

MACAROON  PUDDING 

Mrs.  Donald  L.  Morrill 

6  eggs  V2  11^-  01"  more  stale  macaroons,  rolled 

6  tbsp.  sugar  2%  or  3  tbsp.  powdered  gelatin 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  very  light,  melt  gelatine  in 
hot  water,  add  to  yolks,  beat  whites  of  eggs  with  whisk  (not  Dover), 
add  yolks  and  gelatine  to  whites,  mix  thoroughly,  add  rolled  maca- 
roons.    Mold  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 


34  DESSERTS 

IVIARRON  GELATINE  PUDDING 

Mrs.   Royal  Wentworth   Irwin 

l^  box  Knox's  gelatine  2  cups  scalded  milk 

%  cup  cold  water  %  cup  sugar 

Vs  tsp.  salt  %  cup  pounded  marrons 

1  tsp.  vaniUa  3  eggs 

Soak  gelatine  in  water.  Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  yolks  of 
eggs,  sugar  and  salt,  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  gelatine,  strain,  set  in 
ice  water,  add  marrons  and  flavor,  stirring  until  it  begins  to  tliicken. 
Then  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Pour  in  ring  molds,  and 
when  cold  turn  out  and  fill  center  with  whipped  cream.  Garnish 
with  marrons,  cut  in  half.  Marrons  (imported  chestnuts)  may  be 
secured  at  the  grocer's,  put  up  in  vanilla  syrup.  One  bottle  will 
make  and  garnish  one  recipe. 

PRINCESS  PUDDING 
Mrs.  Theodore  O.  Weiss 

3  eggs  2  tsp.  cold  water 

Vs  cup  sugar  Grated  rind  of  l^  lemon 

%  tsp.  gelatin  2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

3  tsp.  boiling  water 
Soften  gelatin  in  cold  water,  add  boiling  water.     Beat  yolks 

of  eggs  until  thick,  gradually  adding  sugar,  stirring  all  the  time. 

Add  juice  and  rind  of  lemon  and  dissolved  gelatin.     As  soon  as 

mixture  begins  to  set  add  whites  of  eggs.     Mold  in  small  dishes,. 

chill  two  hours,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

SAILOR  DUFF  PtJDDING 

Mrs.  John  Stuart  Cocnley 

1  egg  iy2  cups  flour 

2  tsp.  melted  butter         %  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  cup  boiling  water  %  cup  molasses 

Pinch  of  salt  1  tsp.  soda  (dissolved  in  warm  water) 

Mix  well ;  add  water  last ;  steam  in  well  greased  pan  for  one 
hour. 

SAUCE 

%  cup  butter  %  cup  cream  whipped  stiff,  or  1  egg 

y<2.  cup  powdered  sugar        %  tsp.  vanilla 


go,!.  /^     top.     vaiii 

Small  pinch  of  salt 


DESSERTS  35 

STEAMED  CHERRY  PUDDING 

Miss  Julia  C.  Lathrop 

1  qt.  cooked  cherries  i/4  tsp.  salt 

1  egg  1  cup  flour 

V2  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

%  cup  milk 

Fill  seven  thick  porcelain  custard  cups  one-half  full  of  cher- 
ries. Pour  batter  over  cherries,  steam  forty  minutes,  turn  out  and 
serve  with  sauce  of  remaining  cherries,  and  juice,  hot  and  sweet. 
Cream  cheese  beaten  with  whipped  cream  makes  a  good  accompani- 
ment. 


36 


ENTREES 

A  dish  that  I  do  love  to  feed  upon. 

— Shakespeare. 

BAKED  CRABMEAT 
Mrs.  Charles  Potter 

1  lialf-pound  can  crabmeat  Pinch  of  soda 

2  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped         2  oz.  bread  crumbs 
Salt  to  taste  Juice  of  %  lemon 

Dash  of  cayenne 
Mix  above  ingredients  and  add  to  cream  sauce. 

SAUCE 

2  tbsp.  melted  butter  1  tbsp.  flour 

1  cup  sweet  cream  Salt 

Pour  into  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  crumbs  and  pieces  of 
butter;  bake  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes  and  serve  on  toast. 

BAKED  OMELET 
Mrs.    H.   N.    Rose 

5  egg  yolks  ^  ^Sg  whites 

3  tbsp.  cream  1  salt  spoon  salt 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly,  add  cream  and  salt.  Fold  in  the 
whites,  beaten  very  stiff,  and  bake  twelve  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

BACON  AND  RICE 
Mrs.  F.  W.  Shand 

Bacon  3  eggs 

2  cups  cold  rice 

Line  frying  pan  with  bacon,  and  when  cooked  remove  from 
grease  in  pan.  Add  rice,  cold,  stir  well  with  fork  to  separate 
grains.  When  rice  is  thoroughly  heated,  stir  in  well  beaten  eggs. 
Surround  the  mound  of  rice  with  the  bacon  curls. 

CHEESE  FOXDU 
Mrs.  Kenneth  Rich 

2  cups  cheese,  cut  small  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Butter,  size  of  small  egg 

Salt,  pepper,  paprika  2  eggs 

Worcestershire  sauce  if  desired 


ENTREES  37 

For  bread  crumbs,  use  inside  of  stale  loaf.  ^Nlix  cheese, 
crumbs,  butter,  milk  and  seasoning,  melt  over  stove,  then  add  the 
eggs,  well  beaten.  Pour  them  in  slowly  to  prevent  scrambling, 
and  stir  constantly.    When  it  thickens,  serve  on  toast  or  crackers. 

CHICKEN  ASPIC 

Mrs.  Murry  Nelson 

Salt  1/^  onion 

Chicken  Pepper 

3  cloves  2  bay  leaves 

1  box  gelatine  Juice  of  y^.  lemon 

Hard  boiled  eggs 
Steam  chicken  in  a  little  water  until  tender,  cool,  save  water 
and  skin.  Remove  meat  from  bones.  Boil  water,  onion,  bay 
leaves,  cloves,  salt  and  pepper.  There  should  be  about  one  pint 
of  broth.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  V2  cup  of  water,  pour  broth  over 
it  and  add  lemon  juice.  Line  small  bread  pan  with  slices  of  hard 
boiled  ^g^,  lemon  and  the  best  pieces  of  chicken,  add  the  rest  of 
the  chicken,  pour  broth  over  and  cool.  Serve  on  flat  dish  with 
parsley  and  cold  boiled  carrot  stars. 

CHICKEN  OR  HAM  Ti:\IBALES 
Woman's  City  Club  Lunch  Room 

2  tbsp.  butter  ^  cup  stale  bread  ci-umbs 
%  cup  milk  1  cup   chopped  meat. 

2  eggs  (chicken,  ham  or  beef) 

V2  tbsp.  chopped  parsley  Salt  and  pepper 

Melt  butter,  add  crumbs  and  milk,  cook  five  minutes  stirring 
constantly.  Add  meat,  parsley  and  eggs,  slightly  beaten.  Sea- 
son; turn  into  greased  molds  two-thirds  full.  Set  in  hot  water 
and  bake  like  custard. 

CHICKEN  SOUFFLE 

Mrs.  Russell  Tyson 

1  cup  chopped  chicken,  2  eggs 

turkey  or  veal  1  cup  milk 

1  tbsp.  flour  Salt 

Butter  size  of  an  ^g^ 

Put  milk  and  salt  to  boil,  thicken  with  flour,  wet  with  milk. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  stir  into  the  hot  milk.  When  set 
add  butter  and  stir  in  the  chopped  meat,  remove  from  the  fire 
and  pour  into  a  dish  to  cool.  When  cold  add  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  dish.  Bake  about  twenty 
five  minutes ;  serve  at  once. 


38  ENTREES 

/ 
CHICKEN  SOUFFLE 

Mrs.  Francis  C.  Farwell 

Breast  of  chicken,  cut  up  Bread 

Cream  Whites  of  3  or  4  eggs 

Salt  and  pepper 
Put  chicken  through  colander,  add  bread  and  cream  enough 
to  soften  them;  add  whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten.     Bake  in  cake 
funnel  pan.     Fill  center  with  white  cream  sauce. 

SAUCE 

2  tbsp.  butter  1  tbsp.  flour 

1  cup  cream,  or  milk  Salt  and  red  pepper 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  stirring  constantly,  add  cream  or  milk 
a  little  at  a  time,  then  seasoning. 

CHEESE  BALLS 
Mrs.  Ambrose   Cramer 

%  cup  grated  cheese  2  eggs 

Whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Add  cheese.  Form  into  balls 
size  of  walnuts,  put  two  hours  on  the  ice,  fry  quickly  in  hot  lard. 

DELICIOUS  LUNCHEON  OR  SUPPER  DISH 
Mrs.   John   Milloy 

Potatoes,  diced  Sliced  raw  ham 

Milk  Flour 

In  a  casserole  put  layers  of  diced,  or  sliced  potatoes,  on  top 
of  which  put  the  ham,  cut  to  fit  the  dish.  Over  all  pour  milk  to 
cover,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  each  cup  of  milk.  Among 
the  potatoes  put  some  bits  of  fat  cut  from  the  ham.  Bake  about 
an  hour. 

GREEN  PEPPER  OMELET 
Miss  Kate   Sturges   Benton 

Eggs  1/^  slice  green  pepper 

,     Butter  Bit  of  red  pepper 

Heat  two  sauce  pans.  Put  large  piece  of  butter  in  first  and  a 
small  piece  in  the  second.  In  the  first  put  green  and  red  pepper. 
In  the  second  make  very  soft  scrambled  eggs,  amount  according 
to  persons  served,  and  turn  into  first  on  peppers.  Let  brown  and 
turn  over  in  omelet  shape  on  platter.     This  takes  ten  minutes. 


ENTREES  .  39 

MUSHROOM  WOODCOCK 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Snow 

1/4  lb.  butter  2  tbsp.  flour 

1  pint  milk 
Make  the  above  into  a  cream  sauce. 
2  cans  broken  or  hotel  mushrooms         1  green  pepper 
1^  lb.  strong  American  cheese  1  small  can  pimentoes 

6  hard  boiled  eggs 
Put  the   above  through   the  meat   grinder,   add   the   cream 
sauce,  put  in  baking  dish,  grate  crumbs  over  the  top  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes. 

OLD  ENGLISH  SUET  PUDDING   (for  Meat) 
Mrs.  B.  F.   Langworthy 

1  lb.  sifted  flour  %  cup  water 

1/2  lb.  beef  suet,  chopped  fine         %  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs  beaten 

Mix  all  ingredients,  beating  into  a  smooth  thick  batter.  Place 
in  a  round  bottom  bowl.  Flour  a  pudding  bag  or  cloth,  tie  around 
the  bowl,  sink  into  a.  pot  of  boiling  water,  either  with  or  with- 
out a  piece  of  salt  meat.  Boil  for  one  and  one-half  hours.  Re- 
move from  water,  untie  pudding  cloth,  invert  bowl  on  platter  and 
remove  it.  Serve  pudding  very  hot.  If  desired  to  steam  instead 
of  boil  this  pudding,  two  and  one-half  hours  should  be  allowed. 
If  it  is  cooked  without  meat  in  the  pot  it  is  called  nursery  pud- 
ding and  oaten  by  little  children. 

PECAN  NUT  LOAF 
Mrs.  John  S.  Brown 

1  cup  hot  boiled  rice  1  egg 

1  cup  pecan  meats,  chopped         1  cup  milk 
1  cup  cracker  crumbs  1^2  tsp.  salt 

1  tbsp.  butter,  melted  1/4  tsp.  pepper 

Mix  rice,  nut  meats  and  cracker  crumbs ;  add  egg,  well  beaten, 
milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  into  buttered  small  bread  pan ; 
pour  over  it  the  melted  butter,  cover  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
one  hour.  Turn  on  hot  platter  and  pour  around  it  either  a  to- 
mato sauce,  or  the  following:  Cook  three  tablespoonsful  butter 
with  two  slices  onion  three  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  add  three 
tablespoonsful  flour,  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradu- 
ally one  and  one-half  cups  milk.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  salt,  little  pepper  and  strain. 


40  entrees: 

SAUCE  FOR  SPAGHETTI 
Miss  Helen  A.  Montegriffo 

1  Bermuda  onion,  sliced  1  can  tomatoes  (thick  part 

4  tbsp.  olive  oil  only) 

1  tbsp.  butter  1  lb.  fresh  mushrooms,  or  1 

1  lb.  round  steak  can  mushrooms 
%  cup  Parmesan  cheese,  2     large  carrots 

grated  Salt  and  pepper 

Spices  if  desired 

2  tbsp.  dried  mushrooms,  soaked  in  hot  water 

Brown  onion  and  meat  in  the  oil  and  butter.  Add  thick  part 
of  tomatoes.  After  the  dried  mushrooms  have  been  soaked  a  few 
minutes  in  warm  water,  put  them  in  the  kettle  with  the  canned 
mushrooms  and  carrots,  Avhich  have  been  cut  in  eighths,  add  salt 
and  pepper,  and  other  spices  if  desired.  Let  this  simmer  slowly 
over  an  asbestos  plate  for  three  hours.  Lift  meat  out  of  sauce. 
Pour  sauce  over  cooked  spaghetti,  add  g^^ated  Parmesan  cheese^ 
or  Roman  cheese,  and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI  FOR  LUNCHEON 
Mrs.  Mark  P.  Mears 

2  green  peppers,  ground  1  tbsp.  butter 

1  medium  sized  onion,  ground  %  lb.  cheese,  cut  up 

1  can  tomato  soup  1  lb.  spaghetti,  cooked 

Cook  peppers  and  onion  in  butter,  add  cheese  and  tomato- 
soup,  stir  until  smooth.  Mix  with  spaghetti,  put  in  baking  dish,, 
cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.    Bake  thirty  minutes. 

SPAGHETTI 

Mrs.  Irvin  McDowell 

1  small  pkg.  spaghetti  1  can  tomatoes 

1  small  onion  1  tbsp.  vinegar 

2  tbsp.  butter  1  tsp.  salt 

1  tbsp.  sugar  %  cup  American  cheese,  grated 

Fry  onion  in  butter;  add  tomatoes,  sugar,  vinegar  and  salt. 

Break  up  spaghetti,  add  to  tomato  sauce  and  cook  over  a  slow 

fire.    Just  before  spaghetti  is  done,  add  cheese  and  cook  until  it 

is  melted. 


ENTREES  41 

SPINACH  SOUFFLE 

Mrs.   Tiffany  Blake 

2  cups  spinach  2  tbsp.  butter 
11/2  level  tbsp.  flour  1  cup  cream 

3  egg  yolks  3  egg  whites 

Boil  enough  spinach  in  salted  water  to  have  two  cups  when 
it  has  been  drained  and  chopped.  Put  into  a  saucepan  on  the 
fire,  add  the  butter  and  flour,  when  these  are  blended  add  the 
spinach  and  cream.  Cook  five  minutes,  stirring  carefully,  then 
mix  in  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  remove  the  sauce  pan  at  once  from 
the  fire.  When  cool  stir  in  the  whites  of  eggs  which  have  been 
well  beaten.  Pour  into  a  buttered  souffle  dish  and  bake  about 
twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Sauce  for  spinach,  or  very  young  cabbage.  Leave  out  the 
sugar  when  you  use  it  for  spinach. 

V2  cup  butter  3  eggs 

%  cup  milk  Vs  cup  vinegar 

1  tbsp.  sugar  1  tsp.  mustard 

1  tsp.  flour  1  tsp.  salt 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

Mrs.  Donald  Putnam  Abbott 

Sweet  potatoes,  mashed  Marshmallows 

Raisins 

Fill  greased  baking  dish  with  potatoes,  (Georgia  yams  pre- 
ferred), with  plenty  of  raisins  stirred  in.  Be  sure  to  have  it 
quite  moist.  Cover  the  top  with  marshmallows  and  bake  to  a 
golden  brown. 


42 


MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  FISH 

I  do  protest  I  do  Iwnor  a  chine  of  beef, 
I  do  reverence  a  loin  of  veal. 

— Beaumont  and  Fletcher. 

BAKED  HAM  WITH  APPLES 
Mrs.  H.  J.  Armstrong 

Thick  slice  of  ham  6  good  cooking  apples 

Light  brown  sugar  Chopped  dates 

Remove  the  fat  from  ham  and  place  in  a  shallow  baking 
dish.  Chop  fat  and  sprinkle  over  ham.  Remove  the  cores  from 
apples,  fill  the  cavities  with  dates  and  brown  sugar.  Place  apples 
on  the  ham  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  they  are  cooked. 
Serve  the  apples  as  a  garnish  for  the  ham. 

BAKED  MEAT  DISH 

Dr.   Margaret   M.  Jones 

Chipped  beef  or  cold  meat  Sweet  peppers 

Finely  sliced  potatoes,  raw  Cracker  crumbs 

Bacon  Onion 

Grease  a  baking  dish,  or  casserole  and  cover  the  bottom  \v\t\\ 
a  thin  layer  of  the  potatoes,  then  add  a  layer  of  meat  with  a 
few  slices  of  sweet  peppers.  Repeat  layers  until  dish  is  full, 
having  the  last  one  potatoes,  over  which  dust  a  few  cracker 
crumbs.  Cover  well  with  thinly  sliced  bacon  and  onions.  Pour 
hot,  skimmed  milk  slowly  in  one  side  until  it  can  be  seen  coming 
through.  Bake  forty  minutes  in  hot  oven.  If  cold  meat  is  used 
a  little  salt  is  needed. 

BREADED  SWEET  BREADS 
Mrs.  B.  F.   Lang  worthy 

2  lbs.  large  sweet  breads  Hard  wood  tooth  picks 

2  cups  bread,  or  cracker  crumbs         1  lb.  bacon,  sliced  thin 

2  eggs 
Wash  sweet  breads  and  place  on  stove  in  slightly  acidulated 
cold  water.    Boil  for  twenty  minutes,  throw  into  cold  water  and 
chill.     Put  aside  for>  an  hour  to  dry.     Remove  membrane.     Roll 


MEATS,  POULTRY  AND  FISH  43 

each  sweet  bread  in  a  slice  of  bacon  and  pin  with  a  tooth  pick. 
Roll  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  brown, 
about  twenty  minutes.  Remove  to  chop  platter,  take  out  tooth 
picks  and  serve  with  candied  sweet  potatoes. 

CHICKEN  PIE 

Mrs.  Augustus  Frank 

Crust  for  Pie 
2  cups  flour  2  tbsp.  shortening 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  1  egg,  beaten 

2  tsp.  salt  1  cup  milk 

Sift  baking  powder  in  flour,  mix  all  ingredients  to  make 
batter. 

Broth  for  Pie 

3  tbsp.  butter  1  cup  warm  broth 

3  tbsp.  flour  4  cups  boiling  broth 

1  cup  hot  cream,  or  milk  Pinch  of  pepper 

Mix  butter,  flour  and  pepper  well,  add  w^arm  broth,  then 
boiling  broth,  cook  until  it  bubbles,  stirring  constantly ;  add  hot 
cream  or  milk.  Cook  chicken  in  plenty  of  water  until  tender, 
pick  from  bones,  place  in  pan  and  cover  with  broth.  Drop 
spoonsful  of  crust  over  it,  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes  in 
a  hot  oven. 

CHIPPEWA  GRANDMOTHER'S  CHOWDER 
Mrs.  Edwin  Herbert  Lewis 

1/4  lb.  salt  pork  or  bacon  2  lbs.  black  bass,  halibut  or 

2  onions  fresh  cod 
1  tsp.  salt                                        2  tbsp.  flour 

6  medium  sized  potatoes 

Cut  pork  into  small  dice  and  fry  a  delicate  brown;  slice 
onions,  add  to  pork,  tossing  together  for  five  minutes;  add  flour 
and  stir  until  absorbed  in  fat.  In  another  pan  cook  the  sliced, 
or  diced  potatoes  for  fifteen  minutes  and  add  the  pork  and  onions. 
Bone  the  black  bass,  cut  the  meat  into  squares,  lay  on  top  of  the 
chowder  mixture,  simmer  for  twenty  minutes  carefully,  so  as 
not  to  break  the  fish.  When  ready  to  serve  add  one  cupful  cream, 
one  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  or  tarragon  vinegar  and  a  dash  of 
red  pepper.  Serve  hot  with  toasted  pilot  bread  and  dill  pickles. 
Note — The  boning  may  be  made  easy  by  steaming  the  whole  fish 
for  fifteen  minutes. 


44  MEATS,   POULTRY   AND   FISH 

ENGLISH  BEEF  STEAK  PUDDING 

Mrs.   Horace   J.   Bridges 

2  lbs.  round  steak,  cut  small  1^  cups  flour 

1  onion,  medium  size  Pinch  of  salt 

Water  2  tbsp.  suet,  chopped 

Make  paste  of  suet,  flour  and  salt  and  a  little  cold  water. 
Roll  it  out,  not  too  thin  and  line  a  basin  with  it.  Put  in  the 
meat,  rolled  in  flour,  salt  and  onion  cut  rmall,  add  one-half  cup 
cold  water.  Cover  the  basin,  (which  should  be  full,)  with  paste 
and  tie  a  cloth  over  the  top.  Steam  five  hours  by  putting  the 
basin  half  way  in  water.  Turn  out  on  a  platter  and  serve  with 
vegetables,  and  a  little  extra  gravy. 

FRENCH  CAPTAIN'S  RAGOUT 

Miss  Mary  E.  McDowell 

2%  lbs.  mutton  3  pts.  boiling  water 

Butter  size  of  a  walnut  4  heaping  tbsp.  flour 

Potatoes  to  suit  Onions,  tomatoes  and 

Salt  carrots  to  taste 

Pepper,  both  black  and  red 

Cut  mutton,  preferably  from  the  loin,  in  chunks,  put  flour  in 
hot  pot  and  brown  well.  Mix  butter  with  brown  flour,  add 
sufficient  water  to  make  the  flour  the  consistency  of  cream.  Add 
boiling  water,  mutton,  onions,  tomatoes  and  carrots.  Cook  slowly 
for  two  hours  or  more.     Add  potatoes  at  the  right  time. 

HAMBURGER  STEAK  WITH  RICE 

Mrs.  Arthur  J.  O'Neill 

11/2  lbs.  round  steak,  ground         Saltl  and  pepper 
1  green  pepper,  ground  1  cup  of  boiled  rice 

1  onion  1  can  of  tomatoes 

Good  sized  piece  of  butter 

Mix  meat,  onion  and  green  pepper  and  make  into  7  round 
balls.  Place  in  baking  dish.  Add  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
tomatoes  and  pour  over  meat.     Bake  thirty  minutes. 

Put  rice  in  boiling  water  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  Heap 
in  center  of  platter  and  place  around  it  meat  balls  covered  with 
sauce.     This  makes  a  very  pretty  dish. 


MEATS,  POULTRY  AND  FISH  45 

INDIA  CURRY 

Mrs.  George  R.  Dean 

2  lbs.  lean  meat,  mutton  or  veal         1  tbsp.  curry  powder 

1  tbsp.  flour  1  tsp.  salt 

1  heaping  tbsp.  butter  1  small  onion,  cut  fine 

1  pt.  hot  water  or  stock 
Fry  finely  cut  onion  in  butter.  Mix  curry  powder,  flour  and 
salt ;  stir  into  butter  and  onion  and  bum  until  nearly  black. 
These  three  ingredients  should  be  measured  somewhat  more  than 
level,  but  can  be  varied  to  suit  the  taste.  Add  gradually  the 
hot  water  or  stock.  Cut  meat  into  small  pieces,  brown  them  in 
hot  fat  and  add  to  the  gvavy.  Cover  and  simmer  very  gently 
about  two  hours.  Serve  with  boiled  rice  and  chutney.  Chicken 
curry  is  made]  in  the  same  w^ay,  only  use  one-half  pint  of  w^ater 
or  stock,  and  add  one-half  pint  of  milk  or  cream  just  before 
taking  from  fire. 

INDO-FRANCO  CURRY  OF  CHICKEN 

Mrs.  Archibald  J.   F.   McBean 

1  chicken  6  onions,  medium  sized 

1  lb.  can  tomatoes  1  cup  flour 

1  qt.  milk  1  lb.  fresh  pork 

2  tsp.  curry  powder  1  tsp.  salt 

Fry  or  boil  chicken.  Cut  pork  in  dice,  fry  or  melt,  but  do 
not  brown.  Stir  flour,  add  milk,  chop  onions  and  melt  in  a 
little  fat,  do  not  brown.  Put  all  ingredients  together  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  cook  five  hours.  Do  not  cover,  but  stir  frequently  to 
keep  from  burning.     If  chicken  has  previously  been  cooked,  one 

hour  is  sufficient,  cook  slowly. 

If 

MAINE  CODFISH  LOAF 
Mrs.  Joseph  T.  Bowen 

y2  lb.  salt  boneless  codfish  Egg  sauce 

6  medium  sized  potatoes 

Soak  the  codfish  eight  hours.  Boil  potatoes  and  codfish 
separately  and  beat  together  until  light  and  fluffy.  Pack  into  a 
heavily  butered  bread  pan  and  bake  a  half  hour,  or  until  brown. 
Turn  out  on  platter,  garnish  with  sliced  beets  and  hard  cooked 
eggs.  Serve  with  egg  sauce,  which  is  a  rich  white  sauce  contain- 
ing chopped  hard  cooked  eggs  in  proportion  of  two  eggs  to  one 
cup  of  sauce. 


46  MEATS,   POULTRY   AND   FISH 

MARYLAND  SUNNY  HOME  FRIED  CHICKEN 
Mrs.  Amos  W.  Walker 

Chicken  Egg 

Lard  Butter 

Salt  Pepper 

Cut  chicken ;  salt  and  chill.  Beat  egg  and  dip  pieces  of 
chicken  in  it  and  then  dip  in  flour.  Fry  in  skillet  with  liberal 
supply  of  lard  and  butter  until  golden  brown,  or  one  hour.  Re- 
move and  drain  on  oiled  paper. 

MEAT  DISH 
Mrs.  W.  F.   Dummer 

Cold,  chopped  meat  Mashed  potatoes 

Brown  gravy 

Half  fill  greased  baking  dish  with  cold,  chopped  meat,  cover 
with  brown  gravy,  then  fill  the  dish  with  mashed  potatoes,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  till  it  is  brown  on  top. 

NORAYEG'IAN  FISH  PUDDING 
Dr.  Ingaborg  Rasmussen 

2  lbs.  fish,  scraped  Mace,  ground 

1  or  2  potatoes  1  lb.  butter  or  finely  chopped  suet 

5  eggs  1  pt.  cream,  cold  boiled 

Salt  and  pepper 

For  fish  pudding,  haddock  is  best,  next  comes  pike.  After  the 
fish  is  cleaned,  the  skin  is  scraped  and  freed  from  slime,  and  dried 
in  a  clean  towel.  Head,  fins  and  tail  are  cut  off,  also  the  back 
bone  is  removed  and  the  fish  is  cut  in  halves.  The  fish  is  laid 
flat  on  a  board  and  the  flesh  carefulljl  scraped  off  from  the  tail 
end  upward.  The  fish  and  butter,  or  suet,  are  placed  in  a  mortar 
and  worked  into  a  smooth  paste.  Potatoes  may  be  worked  into 
the  paste.  Eggs  are  added  one  by  one  and  cold  boiled  cream,  one 
tablespoonful  at  a  time.  Mace,  salt  and  pepper  are  added  and 
the  mixture  is  put  in  a  form  and  set  in  the  oven  for  an  hour. 
The  pudding!  is  served  warm  with  caper  or  lobster  gravy. 

LOBSTER  GRAVY 

Rich  cream  gravy  2  tbsp.  chopped  lobster 

A  glass  of  cider  A  thought  of  cayenne  pepper 

Make  a  rich  cream  gravy,  add  chopped  lobster,  the  pepper 

and  cider.     Do  not  let  the  gravy  boil  a  second  time.     This  is  a 

wonderful  old  Norwegian  recipe. 


MEATS,  POULTRY  AND  FISH  47 

OYSTERS  EN  COQUILLE 

Mrs.   Mary   Stevens  Hegler 

1  pt.  oysters,  with  liquor  2  tbsp.  butter 
21/2  tbsp.  flour  2  eggs 

Tbsp.  minced  parsley  Salt,  pepper  and  paprika 

Put  oysters  and  liquor  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  gill  of  water, 
let  come  to  a  boil.  Remove  from  fire,  strain  through  a  colander. 
Mix  butter  and  flour  together  over  fire  until  thick,  then  put  in 
half  the  liquor  and  stir  quickly  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  fire 
and  break  in  eggs,  one  after  the  other,  stirring  all  the  time ;  add 
parsley,  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  to  taste.  When  well  cooked  add 
oysters  but  no  more  liquor,  place  on  stove  and  boil  a  minute. 
When  cool  put  in  shells,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  brown  in 
oven  and  serve. 

PHILADELPHIA  WINTER  SCRAPPLE 

Mrs.  Edwin  Herbert  Lewis 

2  lbs.  fresh  pork,  not  too  lean  %  tsp.  sage,  or  thyme 
ly^  cups  yellow  corn  meal  Salt  and  pepper 

Simmer  the  pork  in  water  to  cover,  which,  when  the  meat 
is  tender,  should  measure  one  quart  and  a  half.  Remove  meat 
from  water,  chop  fine  and  return.  Add  seasoning  and  the  meal 
sifted  in  very  slowly.  Cook  slowly  for  one  hour,  'stirring  often 
to  prevent  sticking.  Pour  into  bread  pans  and  stand  awa}^  to 
cool.  Cut  slices  one-half  inch  thick ;  dust  with  flour  and  fry 
in  a  hot  pan  in^  its  own  fat  until  crisp  and  brown. 

SUKIYAKI  (JAPANESE  CHOP  SUEY) 

Mme.   Shimadzu 

1  lb.  tender  meat  4  or  5  medium  sized  onions 

2  stalks  celery  2  green  peppers 

1  tbsp.  sugar  3  tbsp.  Japanese  sauce   (Shoyn) 

Slice  the  meat  into  small,  thin  pieces  and  place  them  in  thick, 
hot,  greased  frying  pan,  or  chafing  dish.  When  the  Hieat  is 
nearly  done  add  the  vegetables  and  cook  them  a  few  minutes. 
Then  add  the  sugar  and  Japanese  sauce  to  suit  taste.  Cook  them 
about  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  if  needed.  Serve  v/ith  hot  rice. 
Chicken  or  any  other  meat  may  be  used. 


48  MEATS,  POULTRY  AND  FISH 

SOUTHERN  HAMBURGER  STEAK 

Mrs.   Moses   Purvin 

2  lbs.  Hamburger  steak  1  can  tomatoes 

2  cans  red  kidney  beans  1  tbsp.  chili  powder 

Red  peppers  Garlic 

1  onion 

Simmer  onion  in  a  lot  of  fat.  Slowly  add  meat  and  garlic, 
simmer  until  meat  is  light ;  add  can  of  tomatoes.  Season  to  taste, 
simmer  thirty  minutes,  add  chili  powder,  red  peppers  and  kid- 
ney beans. 

TURKEY  WITH  HUNGARIAN  DRESSING 
Mrs.  John  Leeming 

Dressing 

4  heads  of  lettuce  »        1  stalk  celery 

1  bunch  parsley  1  cup  butter' 

1  green  pepper  Sage,  salt  and  pepper 

1  lb.  pork  sausage  Cracker  crumbs  • 
Onions                                               1  qt.  oysters 

■     2  tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Chop,  very  fine,  lettuce,  parsley,  green  pepper,  sausage,  a 
few  small  green  onions,  celery  and  oysters.  Season  well  with 
Worcestershire  sauce,  sage,  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  w^ith  cracker 
crumbs  to  the  proper  consistency.  Melt  butter  in  sauce  pan  and 
add  the  other  ingredients.  Heat  it  well  and  stuff  a  fifteen  pound 
turkey.  Let  turkey  stand  for  eight  hours  after  stuffing  before 
roasting.  Rub  turkey  well  with  salt  and  an  onion,  sprinkle  with 
flour  before  putting  in  the  pan.  Put  in  the  roasting  pan,  around 
the  turkey,  one  good  sized  carrot  cut  in  dice,  two  outside  stalks 
of  celery,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  a  few  laurel  leaves,  three  medium 
sized  onions,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  a  pint  of  water.  Baste 
every  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  while  cooking.  Use  the  drippings 
from  the  pan  after  straining  to  make  the  gravy.  The  giblets 
and  heart  and  liver,  with  an  onion,  should  be  put  on  to  stew 
until  tender  in  one  and  a  half  cups  of  cold  water.  When  they 
are  well  cooked,  chop  them  in  small  pieces  and  stir  into  the  gravy. 

YEAL  IN  CASSEROLE 
Mrs.  L.  B.  Grant 

Butter  size  of  an  egg  1  large  onion 

2  cups  clear  veal,  diced  '    2  cups  carrots,  diced 
Place  in  casserole  first  butter,  then  veal,  then  onion,  then 

carrots.     Season;  cover  and  bake  two  hours.     This  is  delicious 
and  is  a  real  French  recipe. 


MEATS,  POULTRY  AND  FISH  49 

VEAL  POT  PIE 

Mrs.   Walter  F.   Dodd 

11/2  lbs.  veal  Bacon 

%  tsp.  salt  Pepper 

Cut  veal  in  small  pieces,  and  bacon  in  tiny  strips.  Cover 
with  boiling  water  and  let  simmer  until  tender.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  turn  into  a  baking  dish  and  nearly  cover  with 
broth. 

CRUST 

H4  cups  flour  3  tbsp.  shortening 

2V2  tsp.  baking  powder  %  tsp.  salt 

Sift  together,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  work  in  short- 
ening, and  mix  with  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll 
thin,  cut  into  strips  and  cover  meat  in  lattice  fashion.  Bake 
about  twenty-five  minutes  in  hot  oven.  This  will  serve  four 
people. 


50 


PASTRY 

Unless  some  sweetness  at  the  bottom  lie, 
Who  cares  for  all  the  crinkling  of  the  pie? 

— William  King. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE 
Mrs.  Maurice  Lieber 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  2  tbsp.  cornstarch 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  cups  milk 

Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Fill  pie  crust,  previously 
baked,  with  mixture.  Cover  with  Meringue  made  of  whites  of 
2  eggs  and  %  cup  sugar.    Put  in  oven  to  brown.' 

CHESS  PIE 
Mrs.  Eugene  Terry 

1  cup  sugar  •    1  tsp.  each  of  cinnamon  and  allspice 

1  tsp.  flour  Yolks  of  3  eggs 

1  cup  hot  water  Butter  size  of  walnut 

Cook  together  and  pour  into  previously  baked  pie  crust. 
Spread  with  Meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  with  pinch  of  salt  and  level  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and 
%  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.    Brown  in  oven.  •    , 

CREAM  PIE 
Mrs.  Albert  P.  Allen 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 

%  cup  sugar  1  pt.  milk 

1  tsp.  vanilla  Small  piece  butter 

1  large  tbsp.  cornstarch 
Beat  eggs  until  light,  add  sugar,  milk,  salt  and  butter.    Cook 
in  double  boiler.    When  at  the  boiling  point  add  cornstarch,  wet 
with  a  little  milk.     When  thick  take  from  fire,  beat  in  vanilla 
and  pour  into  crust  already  baked.    Make  meringue  for  top. 
Whites  of  2  eggs  2  tbsp.  sugar 

Beat  until  stiff  enough  to  keep  shape  and  brown  in  very 
slow  oven.     Serve  verv  cold. 


PASTRY  ,  51 

DATE  PIE 
Woman's  City  Club  Lunch  Room 

2  pkgs.   dates  4  eggs 

4  tbsp.  flour  2  cups  sugar 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  2  cups  nuts 

Beat  whites  of  eggs,  add  sugar,  beaten  yolks,  dates,  sifted 
dry  ingredients  and  nuts.  Bake  40  minutes  in  slow  oven.  Cut  in 
squares  and  serve  with  ice  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

DEEP  APPLE  PIE 
Mrs.   George   C.    Sikes 

Apples  Sugar 

Stick  cinnamon 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  as  many  firm  apples  as  desired.  Cook 
in  a  single  layer  in  a  heavy  syrup,  (equal  quantities  of  sugar  and 
water)  until  tender.  Remove  apples  to  a  deep  glass  pie  plate, 
packing  closely.  Add  to  the  syrup  a  little  stick  cinnamon  or 
other  flavoring;  boil  until  reduced  and  rich,  then  pour  over 
apples.  Cover  with  top  crust,  ornament  rim,  cut  gashes  in  top 
and  bake  quickly  until  crust  is  done.  Serve  with  cream  or  cot- 
tage cheese. 

LEMON  CREAM  PIE 

Mrs.  Edmund  Andrews 

Grated  rind  and  pulp  of  1  lemon  1  cup  warm  water 

1  cup  sugar  4  tbsp.  flour 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 

White  of  1  egg 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  thoroughl3\  Mix  flour,  sugar  and  salt,  add 
to  water  and  lemon.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Take 
from  fire  when  cool,  fold  in  the  white  of  egg  stiffly  beaten.  Put 
in  previously  baked  shell  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  as 
follows. 

Whites  of  2  eggs  3  tbsp.  sugar 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  as  stiffly  as  possible.  Brown 
in  very  slow  oven  one-half  hour. 


52  PASTRY 

LE]\ION  PIEPLANT  PIE 

Mrs.  H.  J.  Armstrong 

1  cup  stewed  rhubarb  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

1  tbsp.  flour  -  1  tbsp.  melted  butter 

Heat  and  stir  until  thick  and  bake  in  a  single  crust.     Cover 

with  a  meringue  made  from  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  powdered 

sugar. 

MINCE  MEAT 
Mrs.  H.  R.   Wilson 


1/2  peck  apples 
1  lb.  brown  sugar 

1%  cups  vinegar 
2^2  lbs.  neck  meat 

1  cup  white  sugar 
1  cup  butter 

1  lb.  raisins 
1  lb.  currants 

1  cup  suet 

1  whole  nutmeg 

1  tbsp.  salt 

1  tbsp.  cinnamon 
1  tbsp.  cloves 
1  tbsp.  allspice 
3  lemons 

Cook  meat  until  it  falls  apart.  Peel,  core  and  chop  up  all 
the  apples.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Seal  in  Mason  jars  while  still  HOT. 

PIE  CRUST 
Mrs.  George  C.  Sikes 

1  full  cup  lard  3  cups  flour 

1  level  tsp.  salt  Small  quantity  ice  water 

Sift  flour  and  salt;  rub  lard  into  flour  with  tips  of  fingers, 
or  chop  in  with  tAvo  knives;  eet  away  in  a  cold  place.  When 
wanted  take  one  cup  of  the  mixture,  add  ice  w^ater,  (just  enough 
to  hold  flour  together)  and  mix  with  silver  fork.  Turn  out  on 
floured  board,  roll  thin,  and  sprinkle  a  little  of  the  dry  mixture 
on  top  crust  to  make  it  flaky. 

PIE  CRUST 
Mrs.  H.  R.  Wilson 

1%  cups  flour  _  Water  enough  to  mix 

1  level  tsp.  salt  1  cup  lard 

1  small  tsp.  baking  powder 

Mix  flour,  lard  and  salt  thoroughly,  add  baking  powder  he- 
fore  water.  Add  only  enough  water  to  hold  together.  Roll  little 
as  possible. 


PASTRY  53 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

Mrs.  Lottie  Holman  O'Neill 

1%  cups  steamed  pumpkin  %  cups  brown  sugar 

2  eggs  11/2  cups  milk 

%  cup  cream  1  tspi  cinnamon 

V2  tsp.  ginger  i/^  tsp..  salt 

Mix  with  pumpkin  in  the  following  order,  sugar,  cinnamon, 
ginger,  salt,  eggs,  milk  and  cream.     Bake  in  one  crust. 

RHUBAEB  PIE 

Mrs.  Maurice  Lieber 

2  cups  rhubarb  sliced  1  cup  sugar 

1  egg  2  tbsp.  cracker  crumbs 

Mix  ingredients  and  bake  in  two  crusts  as  other  fruit  pies, 
in  a  slow  oven. 


54 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES 

Balmed  and  entreasured  with  full  bags  of  spices. 

— Shakespeare. 

CHILI  SAUCE 
Mrs.  H.  H.  Hettler 

18  ripe  tomatoes  6  large  onions 

1  large  red  pepper  3  cups  vinegar 

2  tbsp.  salt  6  tbsp.  sugar 

1  tbsp.  mustard  1  tbsp.  cinnamon 

Chop  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers  fine,  boil 'one  hour,  then 
add  vinegar,  salt  and  mustard,  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  boil 
until  quite  thick,  and  bottle. 

CHUTNEY 

Dr.   Lena   Hatfield 

12  apples  1  cup  sugar 

2  green  peppers  *  %  tbsp.  ginger 
1  onion  1  pt.  vinegar 

1  cup  raisins  %  tbsp.  salt 

Juice  of  1  lemon 

Do  not  peel  apples;  chop  together  with  onion,  peppers  and 
raisins.  Add  sugar,  salt,  vinegar  and  lemon  juice.  Cook  two 
hours.     Put  in  marmalade  jars,  or  seal  like  jelly. 

CORN  RELISH 
Mrs.  Warren  W.   Smith 

18  ears  corn  1  cabbage 

3  red  peppers  %  gallon  vinegar 

4  cups  sugar  %  cup  salt 
Vk  pkg.  Coleman's  mustard  4  onions 

Cook  one  hour,  ten  minutes. 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES  55 

CRISP  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 
Mrs.   L.   B.   Grant 

15  large  cucumbers  3  cups  sugar 

5  large  onions  3  pts.  vinegar 

2  tsp.  mustard  seed  1  tsp.  ground  cinnamon 

2  tsp.  celery  seed  1  tsp.  black  pepper 

Slice  cucumbers  thin,  leave  rind  on;  slice  onions  thin.  Soak 
in  brine  over  night.  Drain  and  put  in  the  cold  spiced  vinegar; 
bring  all  slowly  to  a  boil  and  seal. 

EMERGENCY  CHILI  SAUCE 
Miss  Mary  I.  Hunter 

1  qt.  canned  tomatoes  3  tbsp.  brown  sugar 

2  onions  1  tsp.  salt 

1  green  pepper,  chopped  fine         %  tsp.  pepper — dash  of 

2  sticks  minced  celery  cayenne 

1/4  cup  vinegar  i/^  tsp.  mustard 

Put  together  in  a  kettle,  stir,  bring  to  a  boil  and  boil  gently 
for  forty-five  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 

FRENCH  CHOW-CHOW 

Miss   Isabel  Mariner   Mitchell 

4  large  sour  pickles,  cut  up         1  qt.  green  tomatoes 
1  large  cauliflower  "       1  qt.  midget  pickles,  not 

4  lari^e  green  peppers  cut  up 

1  qt.  small  onions 

Put  all  together  and  cover  with  brine  of : 

1  gal.  water  .  %  cup  salt 

Soak  in  brine  four  hours.    Let  drain  while  preparing  dressing. 

DRESSING 

2  cups  white  sugar  2  qts.  cider  vinegar 
4  level  tbsp.  mustard  1  cup  flour 

1  tbsp.  turmeric 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  vinegar,  hot,  and  scald  until  smooth. 
Seal  in  Mason  jars.     An  old  recipe!" 


56  PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES 

INDIA  RELISH 

Mrs.  Charles  Potter 

1  pk.  green  tomatoes,  chopped  1  cup  salt 

3  green  peppers,  chopped  8  cups  sugar 

3  red  peppers,  chopped  2  tbsp.  mustard  seed 

6  large  onions  2  tbsp.  celery  seed 

3  qts.  vinegar  1  oz.  stick  cinnamon 

1  tbsp.  whole  cloves 
Let   tomatoes   and   salt   stand    over    night.      Next    morning 
squeeze   out  and  add   other  ingredients.     Put   spices  in   cheese 
cloth  bag.     Cook  two  hours.     You  cannot  go  astray  if  you  use 
this  recipe. 

PEPPER  HASH 
Mrs.  Ira  Couch  Wood 

6  large  white  onions  2  oz.  mustard  seed 

6  red  peppers  %  cup  salt  ' 

6  green  peppers  %  lb.  sugar 

6  pieces  celery  1  tbsp.  black  peppercorns 

1  tbsp.  cloves 

Chop  all  vegetables  fine,  mix  well,  add  salt  and  let  stand  all 
night.  Next  day  drain  carefully,  add  remaining  seasoning  and 
two  quarts  boiling  vinegar.  Bring  pickles  to  a  boil  and  boil 
five  minutes.    Preserve  in  jars  or  crock. 

PICKLED  PEACHES 
Miss  Julia  C.  Lathrop 

6  lbs.  peaches  3  lbs.  granulated  sugar 

1  pt.  cider  vinegar  Cloves 

Scald  and  peel  peaches,  stick  two  cloves  in  each.  Drop  the 
peaches  in  the  boiling  syrup  and  cook  until  tender.  Place  fruit  in 
glass  jars,  fill  with  boiling  syrup  and  seal.  When  the  pickles  are 
used  any  syrup  remaining  in  the  jars  should  be  saved  and  added 
to  the  syrup  for  next  year's  pickles  because  it  gives  a  richer  flavor. 

ROCKLAND  HOUSE  RELISH  (1878) 
Mrs.   Walter   L.   Fisher 

1  peck  green  tomatoes  6  green  peppers,  chopped  fine 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  stand  three  hours,  drain,  and  the  rest  of 
night.    Drain  off  and  add : 

6  small  onions,  chopped  fine         3  cups  sugar 

1/4  lb.  white  mustard  seed  1  oz.  whole  cloves 

2  tsp.  celery  seed  1  oz.  whole  allspice 

1  oz.  ground  pepper 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES  57 

Mix  well,  cover  with  vinegar  and  boil  until  tender  and  soft. 
Just  before  taking  off  add  sugar. 

SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES  * 
Mrs.  R.   F.   Schuchardt 

50  cucumbers,  one  to  two  1  qt.  vinegar 

inches  long  i^  cup  salt 

Small  white  onions  %  oz.  white  mustard  seed 

1  cup  best  salad  oil  %  oz.  celery  seed 

2  tbsp.  sugar 
Slice     cucumbers     withoiit     peeling,    one-eighth    inch    thick. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  stand  three  hours,  drain,  and  the  rest  of 
the  ingredients  and  pack  in  jars.  This  makes  one  gallon  of  pickles. 

APRICOT,  PINEAPPLE  AND  ORANGE  PRESERVE 

Mrs.  Paul  Blatchford 

4  oranges  1  pineapple 
1  basket  apricots                             5  lbs.  sugar 

Squeeze  juice  of  oranges.  Cut  peel  into  small  strips,  simmer 
in  about  two  cups  of  water  for  one-half  hour,  or  until  tender. 
Cut  pineapple  and  apricots  into  small  pieces  and  add  to  orange 
juice.  Simmer  and  add  sugar  and  prepared  peel.  Cook  slowly 
until  thick  enough  for  jam. 

CHERRY  CONSERVE 

Mrs.  Edward  L.  Murfey 

5  boxes  sour  cherries  5  lbs.  sugar 

4  oranges  1%  lbs,  seeded  raisins 

Pit  cherries ;  peel  oranges  very  thin  and  chop  rind  very  thin 
after  juice  is  taken  out.  Chop  all  fruit  together,  pouring  juice 
over  the  mixture.  Boil  hard  thirty  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
This  makes  two  quarts. 

CURRANT  AND  RED  RASPBERRY  JELLY 
Mrs.   Walter   F.   Dodd 

Currants  Sugar 

Red  Raspberries 
Take  an  equal  quantity  of  currants  and  raspberries.     Wash 
the  fruit  and  stew.    Wash  the  berries  and  squeeze  in  a  jelly  bag. 


I 


58  PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES 

Allow  one  pint  of  juice  to  each  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  for  twenty 
minutes,  add  sugar  which  has  been  heated  in  a  flat  dish  in  the 
oven.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  boil  five  minutes.  Skim  when 
necessary.  Have  jelly  glasses  standing  in  hot  water,  pour  jelly- 
into  glasses,  let  stand  until  hard  and  cover. 

DELIGHT  CONSERVE 

Miss  Katherine  Andrin 

1  qt.  cherries  1  qt.  currants 

1  qt.  gooseberries  4  lbs.  granulated  sugar 

1  qt.  raspberries 

Stem  currants,  in  kettle  with  small  amount  of  water,  cook 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then  strain.  Add  pitted  cherries,  rasp- 
berries and  pricked  gooseberies,  then  sugar.  Cook  to  jam,  put  in 
jelly  glasses  and  seal. 

GOLDEN  CONSERVE 

Mrs.   Moses  Purvin 

6  lbs.  pumpkin,  peeled  and  dry  6  lbs.  sugar 

8  lemons,  sliced  peel  and  all  y^  lb.  candied  ginger 

Pour  sugar  over  other  ingredients;  let  stand  over  night; 
cook  an  hour  after  it  begins  to  boil,  or  until  clear. 

ORANGE  AND  GRAPE  FRUIT  :MARMAX.AJ)E 
Miss  Mary  E.  McDowell 

4  large  oranges  2  grape  fruit 

2  lemons  II/2  pt.  water  to  each  pt.  of  mixture 

1%  lbs.  sugar  to  each  pt.  of  mixture 

Shave  oranges,  lemons  and  grape  fniit  crosswise  and  as  fine 
as  possible.  Add  water,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Boil  one-half 
hour  and  again  let  stand  over  night.  Remeasure  and  add  sugar 
(one  and  one-half  lb.  to  each  pt.).  Boil  until  it  jells.  This  makes 
from  twenty-five  to  thirty  glasses. 

RHLTBARB  CONSERVE 

Mrs.  Russell  H.  Opdyke 

4  lbs.  rhubarb  6  lbs.  sugar 

2  lemons  1  lb.  nuts,  almond  or  walnuts 

Wash  fruit  in  cold  water;  cut  rhubarb  in  small  pieces  with- 
out peeling.    Cut  up  or  chop  lemons,  peel  and  all,  removing  seeds. 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES  59 

Chop  nuts.  Put  all  together  with  sugar  and  cook  slowly  one 
hour,  stirring  sufficiently  to  prevent  sticking.  When  clear  and 
thick,  pour  into  glasses,  paraffin  tops  as  for  jelly. 

ROASTED  PEACHES,  A  MEAT  CONSERVE 
Mrs.  W.  R.  Cubbins 

6  peaches  Butter 

Sugar  Nutmeg  or  cinnamon 

Cut  peaches  in  halves,  remove  stones,  but  do  not  pare.  Fill 
centers  with  butter,  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
until  tender.     Try  with  silver  fork.     Serve  hot. 

SPICED  CURRANTS 
Mrs.  Murry  Nelson 

5  lbs.  currants  4  lbs.  sugar 

1  pt.  vinegar  2  tsp.  each  ground 

cinnamon  and  cloves 

Stem  and  wash  currants,  add  sugar,  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
vinegar.    Boil  two  hours,  or  until  mixture  jells. 

SPICED  GOOSEBERRIES 

Mrs.  Joseph  F.  Nachbour 

4  qts.  gooseberries  1  pt.  vinegar 

2  tbsp.  cinnamon  4  lbs.  sugar 

2  tbsp.  allspice  1  tbsp.  ground  cloves 

Do  not  add  the  spices  until  the  gooseberries  are  boiled  soft, 
then  let  it  come  to  the  consistency  of  jelly. 

TOMATO  PRESERVE 
Miss   Jenny  H.    Snow 

1  qt.  tomato,  prepared  i/^  lemon 

3  cups  sugar 

Pare  and  cut  tomatoes  into  small  pieces,  add  the  sugar  and 
thinly  sliced  lemon.  Cook  twenty-five  minutes,  stirring  to  keep 
from  burning.    Remove  from  fire,  skim  and  seal  in  sterilized  jars. 


60 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS 

Let  onion  atoms  lurk  within  the  howl 
And,  half  suspected,  animate  the  whole. 

— Sidney  Smith. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 
Miss  Lillian  A.  Kemp 

3  cups  chicken,  cold  %  cup  French  dressing 

3  cups  crisp  celery,  diced  1%  cups  Mayonnaise 

Cut  chicken  in  one-half  inch  dice;  marinate  with  French 
dressing.  Add  desired  seasoning  and  allow  to  stand  at  least  one 
hour.  Add  celery  and  just  before  serving  add  the  Mayonnaise 
dressing.     Serve  on  crisp  lettuce. 

FRUIT  S.VJjAD 
Mrs.   H.  H.  Hettler 

%  pineapple,  diced  %  lb.  English  walnuts 

2  large  oranges  3  bananas,  sliced 

2  doz.  Malaga  grapes 
Do   not   slice  bananas  too  thin;   divide   oranges   lengthwise 
into  small  portions ;  seed  and  peel  grapes  and  cut  in  half ;  blanch 
walnuts.     Mix   all   with    a    mayonnaise   dressing   and   serve    on 
lettuce. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

Dr.   Lena   Hatfield 

%  cup  pineapple  juice  %  tsp.  salt 

%  cup  lemon  juice  1  tbsp.  flour 

1  tbsp.  vinegar  %  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 
Mix  dry  ingredieiUs,  add  beaten  eggs,  then  liquids.    Cook  in 
double  boiler  until  smooth  and  thick.     Mix  with  whipped  cream 
and  pour  over  shaved,  blanched  almonds,   diced  pineapple   and 
marshmallows. 


SALAD  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS  61 

GINGER  ALE  SALAD 
Mrs.  Paul  Blatchford 

2  tbsp.  gelatine  1  cup  ginger  ale 

1/4  cup  lemon  juice  2  tbsp.  sugar 

Salt 

Soak  gelatine  in  2  tablespoonsful  of  water,  then  dissolve  in 
%  cup  of  hot  water.  Add  ginger  ale,  lemon  juice,  sugar  and  salt 
and  let  stand  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  ''fold  in"  the 
following : 

%  cup  celery,  cut  in  thin  %  cup  apple,  cut  in  tiny  pieces 

slices  4  tbsp.  canned  or  shredded 

2  tbsp.  chipped  ginger  pineapple 

Mold  and  chill-     Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

JELLIED  FRUIT  SALAD  WITH  WHITE  MAYONNAISE 

Mrs.  George   R.  Dean 

1  level    tbsp.    Cox's    granu-         i/4  cup  lemon,  orange,  or 

lated  gelatin  grape  fruit  juice 

1/4  cup  cold  water  IV2  cups  fruit,  cut  in  pieces 

1  cup  boiling  water  2  level  tbsp.  sugar 

1/4  tsp.  salt  Few  grains  cayenne  pepper 

Soften  gelatin  in  cold  water,  bring  other  ingredients  to  a 
boil,  and  add  softened  gelatin ;  strain  and  cool.  When  starting 
to  jelly  add  fruit  cut  in  pieces  and  mold.  Serve  with  a  white 
mayonnaise  made  of  equal  parts  of  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
whipped  cream.     This  serves  five  people. 

JELLIED  VEGETABLES 

Mrs.   Donald   L.  Morrill 

1  tbsp.  gelatine  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  cider  vinegar 

1  tsp.  salt  2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

1/2  cup  celery  hearts  %  cup  cabbage 

Ys  cup  cucumbers,  chopped  I/3  cup  cold  cooked  carrots 

y^  cup  cooked  peas 
Cover  gelatine  with  one-quarter  cup  cold  water,  when  w^ater 
is  absorbed  dissolve  in  boiling  water.  Add  sugar,  vinegar,  lemon 
juice.  Strain  and  cool.  When  mixture  thickens  add  other  in- 
gredients. Mix  all  lightly  and  turn  into  a  ring  mold.  Chill, 
turn  out  on  serving  platter  and  surround  with  slices  of  cold 
boiled  or  smoked  meat.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  fill  center 
with  boiled  salad  dressing. 


62  SALAD  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS 

NOVELTY  SALAD 
Mrs.  R.  F.   Schuchardt 

Place  one-half  of  a  bartlet  pear  on  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf.  On 
the  stem  end  place  two  cloves,  to  represent  eyes.  Cut  almonds 
into  pieces,  one  inch  in  length  and  insert  to  represent  porcupine 
quills.     Add  mayonnaise  dressing. 

PINEAPPLE  AND  CUCUMBER  JELLY  SALAD 
Mrs.  J.  V.   Farwell 

1  ean  pineapple  1  pkg.  Knox's  gelatine 

1  cup  sugar  1  cucumber 

1  tbsp.  white  vinegar  Juice  of  2  lemons 

Dice  the  pineapple  and  put  on  the  stove  to  boil.  Add  sugar, 
gelatine,  dissolved,  lemon  juice  and  vinegar.  Let  it  cool  then 
add  cucumber  which  has  been  previously  diced,  salted  and 
drained.     Color  the  jelly  with  green  vegetable  coloring. 

POTATO  SALAD 
Mrs,  Francis  C.  Farwell 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  4  tbsp.  vinegar 

1  tbsp.  butter  %  cup  cream 

Onion  and  parsley,  chopped         Salt  and  pepper 

Beat  eggs  thoroughly  and  add  vinegar,  a  little  at  a  time,  and 
then  beat  again.  Put  dish  of  dressing  in  kettle  of  boiling  water 
until  it  thickens.  Remove  and  add  butter.  Let  it  get  cold.  Beat 
thoroughly  with  egg  beater,  stirring  in  cream  a  little  at  a  time 
and  add  onion  and  parsley.  Pour  over  and  mix  thoroughly  with 
potatoes. 

RUBINSTEIN  SALAD 
Mrs.  Archibald  J.  F.  MacBean 

1  lb.  fresh  mushrooms  4  artichoke  bottoms,  or 

2  limes  2  avacados 
French  dressing  Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  up,  into  thin  slices  the  raiv  mushrooms.  Boil  artichokes, 
and  use  only  the  bottoms,  taking  away  all  the  fibre ;  slice  the  bot- 
toms thin  also.     Sprinkle  paprika  over  them. 

Marinate  in  a  French  dressing  made  of : 

3  tbsp.  salad  oil  2  tbsp.  lime  juice 
%  tsp.  salt                                       %  tsp.  pepper 

This  salad  was  concocted  by  Anton  Rubinstein. 


SALAD  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS  €3 

SPAGHETTI  SALAD 
Mrs.  F.  W.   Shand 

1  pkg.  spaghetti  1  small  green  pepper 

4  stalks  celery  Parsley 

Boil  spaghetti  about  thirty-five  minutes  in  salted  water; 
drain  and  blanch.  Chop  fine  the  green  pepper,  celery  and  a  gen- 
erous amount  of  parsley.  Stir  all  into  the  spaghetti.  Add 
mayonaise  dressing,  garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs  and  chill  well 
before  serving. 

TOMATO  AND  COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD 

Mrs.  Augustus  Frank 

Peel  as  many  tomatoes  as  you  wish  to  serve.  Take  out  the 
pulp,  mix  with  %  pint  cottage  cheese,  add  1  cup  almonds  cut 
lengthwise,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  tomatoes, 
cover  with  mayonnaise,  place  on  lettuce  and  serve  very  cold. 

WALNUT  AND  FRENCH  PEA  SALAD 

Mrs.  James  Blackstone  Barnet 

1  can  of  French  peas,  rinsed         i/^  lb.  BLACK  walnut  meats 
Serve  with  mayonnaise  on  lettuce. 

WHITE  SALAD 

Mrs.  J.  Paul  Goode 

5  cups  white  cabbage  1  can  pineapple 

1  cup  almonds  2  cups  marshmallows 

Shave  cabbage  fine,  let  stand  an  hour  in  cold  water ;  drain  in 
a  cloth  and  keep  cold.  Be  sure  it  is  dry.  Dice  seven  or  eight 
slices  of  pineapple.  Blanch  almonds  and  cut  into  quarters;  cut 
marshmallows  into  quarters. 

DRESSING 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  well         i/^  cup  water 

1  large  tbsp.  flour  1/2  cup  sugar 

3  tbsp.  vinegar  Juice  of  3  lemons 

IV2  cups  cream,  whipped 

Mix  flour  with  sugar,  and  add  to  whites  of  eggs.     Add  to 

lemon  juice,  vinegar  and  water.     Mix  in  double  boiler  and  cook 

well,  stirring  all  the  time.    When  cold  add  whipped  cream.    Do 

not  mix  with  the  cream  until  ready  to   serve.     Marshmallows 


64  SALAD  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS 

may  be  omitted.  This  will  serve  eight  to  ten  without  marsh- 
mallows,  twelve  with,  and  is  a  very  delicate  salad  with  cabbage 
foundation  scarcely  recognizable. 


WONDROUS   SALAD 
Mrs.  James  Blackstone  Barnet 

Can  of  salmon  Mayonnaise 

Celery  Cocoanut  (Baker's) 

Lettuce  Salt  to  taste 

Arrange  on  large  flat  dish : — A  layer  of  crisp,  yellow  lettuce 
leaves,  then  one  of  celery  cut  in  pieces,  a  layer  of  salmon  left  in 
*' pieces",  a  layer  of  Baker's  cocoanut  (long  shreds).  Repeat  the 
layers,  except  the  lettuce,  spreading  each  with  mayonnaise,  with 
plenty  on  top  layer. 

Wash  the  cocoanut  very  thoroughly  in  a  qolander,  dipping 
it  up  and  down  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  to  dissolve  all  sugar  and 
so  remove  it  entirely.    Squeeze  until  very  dry. 

BOILED  MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 
Mrs.  William   S.  Hefferan 

4  eggs  %  cup  sugar 

1  tbsp.  butter  2  tbsp.  flour 

%  tsp.  salt  Pinch<  of  mustard 

1  cup  water  ^4  cup  vinegar 

Mix  water,  vinegar,  sugar,  salt  and  mustard   and  heat  in 

double  boiler;  then  add  butter  mixed  with  flour;  then  eggs,  well 

beaten.    Stir  slowly  until  it  thickens. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

Mrs.  Russell  H.  Opdyke 

1  tsp.  salt  ^  tsp.  paprika 

1  tsp.  sugar  3  tbsp.  olive  oil 

2    tbsp.  vinegar  or  lemon  juice 
Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  vinegar,  then  oil  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Flavored  vinegar  made  of  one  quart  cider  vinegar  in  which  is 
placed  one  bud  of  garlic,  or  five  leaves  tarragon  may  be  used  for 
French  dressing  if  desired. 


SALAD  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS  65 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 
Mrs.  J.  Paul  Goode 

3  tbsp.  mayonnaise  1  tsp.  onion  or  chives 

1  tbsp.  chili  sauce  (chopped) 

1  tbsp.  chopped  beets  Pinch  of  powdered  sugar 

(canned)  Tarragon  vinegar  to  taste 

One  hard  boiled  egg  run  through  sieve,  or  rubbed  to  paste. 
'Tv^^ill  ''go  farther"  and  ''fare"  not  much  "worse"  if  whipped 
cream  is  added. 

WALTHAM  SALAD  DRESSING 
Mrs.  Joseph  F,  Nachbour 

1  cup  sour  cream  1  tsp.  mustard 

2  tsp.  sugar  2  ^^^  yolks 

2  tsp.  salt  %  cup  vinegar 

%  tsp.  pepper 

To  cream  add  ^^g  yolks  slightly  beaten,  vinegar  and  remain- 
ing ingredients  thoroughly  mixed.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stir- 
ring constantly,  until  mixture  thickens. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING 
Mrs.  Albert  P.  Allen 

1  bottle  cream,  whipped  Pinch  of  salt 

I/3  cup  sugar  Juice  of  1  lemon 

%  tsp.  dry  mustard 
Mix  lemon,  sugar,  mustardv  and  salt  thoroughly,  add  to  the 
whipped  cream.     Use  with  a  white  fruit  salad. 


66 


SOUPS 

/  nrill  eat  these  broths  imth  spoons  of  amber. 

— Ben  Jonson. 

BLUEBERRY  SOUP 

Mrs.  Mary  Wilmarth 

1  qt.  blueberries  2  cups  sugar 

1  tbsp.  cornstarch  1  lemon 

Cover  blueberries  with  water  and  boil  five  minutes.  Strain: 
sweeten  with  sugar  and  thicken  with  cornstarch.  Add  juice  of 
lemon.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold,  with  slice  of  lemon  in  each 
plate  or  cup. 

CHICKEN  AND  RICE  SOUP 
Mrs.  Charles  E.  Merriam 

Chicken  gravy  Rice 

Onion  Celery 

Milk  Salt  ^nd  pepper 

When  stewing  chicken,  set  aside  surplus  gravy  without 
thickening.  Add  cooked  rice  to  suit,  also  onion  and  celery,  cut 
fine,  to  flavor.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  milk  enough  to  color 
and  still  retain  flavor.    Heat  and  serve. 

CORN  SOUP 
Mrs.  Elizabeth  Dale 

1  can  corn  2  quarts  milk 

1  tsp.  cornstarch  Salt  and  pepper 

Piece  of  butter  size  of  egg 
Put  corn  through  meat  grinder,  then  through  coarse  sieve. 

Add  milk,  cornstarch,  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk,  salt,  pepper  and 

butter.    Boil  until  creamy. 

LIMA  BEAN  SOUP 

Mrs.   P.   Eugene   Clark 

1  cup  dried  lima  beans  2  tbsp.  flour 

2  sliced  onions  3  pints  cold  water 
1  cup  cream  or  milk                        4  diced  carrots 

1  tsp.  salt  4  tsp.  butter 

%  tsp.  pepper 


SOUPS  67 

Soak  beans  over  night,  drain,  add  cold  water  and  cook  until 
soft.  Rub  through  sieve.  Cut  all  vegetables  into  small  pieces, 
cook  five  minutes  in  two  teaspoons  butter.  Take  from  fire,  add 
flour,  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  in  boiling  soup.  Add  cream  and 
remaining  butter.     Serve  hot. 


NORWEGIAN  FISH  SOUP 
Mrs.   Olga  Graff 

2  lbs.   salmon,   trout,  mack-  1  cup  of  veal  stock 

erel,  or  other  rich  fish  2  carrots 

1  parsnip  1  young  turnip 

10  stalks  asparagus,  or  other  Flour 

preferred  vegetables  1  tsp.  each,  chopped  parsley 
Sweet  and  sour  cream  and  chives 

Simmer  fish  in  two  quarts  of  water  until  it  falls  apart.  Strain 
and  reserve  the  fish  for  use  cold  with  mayonnaise.  Simmer  the 
finely  diced  vegetables  in  the  stock  until  very  soft.  Thicken  soup 
with  two*  scant  tablespoons  of  flour,  mixed  with  three  tablespoons 
of  cream.  When  nearly  done  add  parsley  and  chives  and  a 
sprinkling  of  nutmeg.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  one  cup  of  thick 
sour  cream  for  every  six  persons.  Small  fish  balls  are  nice  served 
in  the  soup. 

OLD  FAMILY  BROWN  SOUP 
Mrs.  Joseph  T.  Bowen 

5  lb.  soup  bone  1  tsp.  ground  cinnamon 
1  can  tomatoes  1  tsp.  ground  allspice 

6  eggs  1  lemon 

1  tbsp.  salt  1  tsp.  ground  cloves 

3  pepper  corns  Flour 

Simmer  soup  bone  in  one  gallon  water,  until  meat  falls  from 
it;  strain.  Add  the  tomatoes  and  strain  again.  Bring  to  a  boil 
and  stir  in  four  tablespoons  brown  flour  mixed  smooth  with  water. 
Peel  and  slice  the  lemon  thin,  boil  for  five  minutes  in  one  cup 
water.  Throw  water  and  lemon  slices  into  the  soup.  Add  the 
spices  just  before  serving.  Pour  into  tureen  over  the  finely 
*».hopped  hard  cooked  eggs. 


68  SOUPS 

POTATO  CHOWDER 
Mrs.  Maud  R.  Turley 

1  in.  cube  soft  salt  pork  1  small  onion,  chopped 

11/2  cup  potato  balls  ^2  cup  celery 

6  boston  crackers  1  cup  boiling  water 

iy2  cups  scalded  milk  %  cup  cold  milk 

1  tbsp.  flour  1  tsp.  salt 

Cut  pork  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  with  onion  until  pork  is 
delicate  brown.  Put  aside  one  tablespoon  fat.  Cut  raw  potatoes 
into  balls,  add  to  remainder  of  fat  with  celery,  boiling  water  and 
salt;  cook  till  potatoes  are  soft.  Add  flour  to  reserved  fat  and 
stir  until  well  blended.  Add  scalded  milk  and  stir  until  it  boils, 
then  add  the  first  mixture.  Split  crackers  and  cover  with  cold 
milk,  let  stand  until  milk  is  absorbed  and  add  to  chowder.  Use 
more  seasoning  if  necessary.     Serve  very  hot. 

PUREE  OF  TAPIOCA 
Mrs.  Frank  O.  Lowden 

1  cup  pearl  tapioca  1  cup  cream 

1  qt.  milk  1  tbsp.  flour 

1  qt.  soup-stock 
Soak  the  tapioca  over  night :  cook  it  in  the  soup-stock  for  one 
half  hour,  or  until  the  tapioca  is  clear,  and  then  add  the  milk  and 
cream.  Thicken  with  the  flour :  salt  to  taste.     Serve  with  whipped 
cream,  if  desired. 


69 


VEGETABLES 

The  nobleman  of  the  garden.- 

— Doufflas  Jerrold. 


BOILED  CABBAGE 
Mrs.   Elwood   Stewart 

1  small  cabbage  1  tbsp.  butter 

1  tbsp.  vinegar  Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  cabbage  into  small  pieces :  cover  with  boiling  water ;  boil 
vigorously  for  eight  minutes.  Drain,  add  salt,  pepper,  vinegar 
and  butter.     Boil  without  covering.     Easily  digested. 

BOILED  RICE  WITH  FRIED  PEPPERS 
Mrs.  George  R.  Dean 

1  cup  rice  1  tbsp.  salt 

Green  peppers  Butter 

Wash  rice  in  several  waters.  Cook  in  two  quarts  of  rapidly 
boiling  salted  water,  uncovered,  from  twelve  to  twenty  minutes, 
until  grains  ar^  soft.  Dry  in  strainer  in  oven.  Slice  green  pep- 
pers crosswise,  remove  seeds,  lay  in  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes, 
sprinkle  with  salt.  Roll  in  flour  and  fry  brown  in  plenty  of  but- 
ter. Put  rice  into  serving  dish,  place  peppers  on  top,  pour  over 
them  the  butter,  and  place  in  oven  for  three  or  four  minutes.  The 
number  of  peppers  used  is  according  to  taste,  but  they  shrink  in 
the  cooking,  and  it  is  best  to  have  an  abundance  to  cover  rice. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 
Mrs.  Elizabeth  Dale 

iy2  lbs.  small  navy  beans  %  lb.  salt  pork 

1  tbsp.   molasses  Salt  and  pepper 

Soak  beans  over  night.  As  early  as  possible  in  the  morning 
put  beans  in  stone  crock.  Put  a  good  layer  of  beans  in  bottom 
of  crock,  then  add  pork,  after  scoring  the  top  lightly,  then  add 
rest  of  beans  with  molasses,  salt  and  pepper  and  enough  water  to 
cover.  Cover  and  bake  in  slow  oven  ten  or  twelve  hours,  adding 
enough  water  from  time  to  time  to  keep  beans  from  drying.  Pork 
should  be  very  fat  and  as  nearly  square  as  possible. 


70  VEGETABLES 

CABBAGE  SAUCE 

Mrs.  Leeds  Mitchell 

Cabbage  1  egg 

1  tbsp.  sugar  4  tbsp.  vinegar 

2  tbsp.  olive  oil  Pepper 

Salt  1  tsp.  ground  allspice 

V2  pt-  thick  cream 

Boil  young  cabbage  without  soda.  Drain  well,  cut  in  quar- 
ters. Heat  vinegar,  oil,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  in  double  boiler. 
Beat  egg,  add  cream.  Pour  fii*st  mixture  over  this  (important). 
Return  to  fire  and  cook  until  the  consistency  of  thin  custard, 
about  ten  minutes.     This  is  to  be  used  alone  as  a  first  course. 

CELERY  AU  GRATIN 
Mrs.  Kenneth  Rich 

Celery  White  sauce    ' 

Cut  celery  into  inch  long  pieces,  cook  until  tender.  Make  a 
cup  of  white  sauce  as  follows : 

2  tbsp.  butter  2  tbsp.  flour 

1  cup  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Have  about  a  cup  of  sauce  to  a  cup  and  a  quarter  of  cooked 
celery.  Use  part  water  in  which  celery  was  cooked  and  part 
cream.  Butter  a  baking  dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  sauce,  then  a 
layer  of  celery,  etc.  Cover  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs.  Bake 
in  oven  until  a  nice  brown.  A  grating  of  cheese  can  be  used  if 
desired. 

EGGPLANT,  BAKED 
Mrs.  J.  V.  Farwell 

Eggplant  2  slices  of  bread 

Onion  Parsley 

2  eggs  Seasoning 
Milk 

Parboil  eggplant  in  salt  and  water,  skin  and  chop  fine.  Soak 
bread  in  milk  and  boil  until  soft.  Cook  onion  and  parsley  in  a 
little  water,  add  bread  and  milk  and  chopped  eggplant.  Cook 
all  together,  seasoning  to  taste.  Add  well  beaten  eggs,  put  in 
baking  dish  with  cracker  crumbs  and  butter  on  top  and  bake  half 
an  hour. 


VEGETABLES  71 

EGGPLANT  AU  GRATIN 

Miss   Jane  Addams 

1  medium  sized  eg^lant  %  tsp.  paprika 

1  onion,  cut  fine  1  can  tomatoes,  2V2  size 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  1  cup  butter 

Salt  and  pepper 

Fry  the  onion  in  butter,  place  eggplant  on  onion  and  cook  ten 
minutes.  Put  tomatoes  *  in  eggplant  and  stir  all  together,  cook 
ten  minutes  more.  Put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  alternate  layers 
of  eggplant  mixture  and  bread  crumbs.  Butter  top  and  bake 
twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes.  Do  not  peel  eggplant;  it  is  well 
to  soak  in  salt  water  before  cooking. 

GLAZED  CARROTS 

Mrs.   Donald   Bain   Murry 

2  bunches  carrots  %  cup  sugar 

3  tbsp.  butter 

Boil  scraped  and  halved  carrots  until  nearly  done.  Pour  off 
water  (there  should  be  very  little),  replace  on  fire,  add  butter  and 
sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top.     Cook  over  slow  fire  until  glazed. 

GREEN  CORN  OYSTERS 
Mrs.   Paul  Blatchford 

2  cups  corn  V2  c^P   flour 

2  eggs  V2  tsp.  baking  powder 

-%  cup  cream  Salt  and  pepper 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  other  ingredients  and  mix.  Fry  in  but- 
ter, dropping  the  batter  in  spoonfuls.     Serve  very  hot. 

JAPANESE  METHOD  OF  COOKING  RICE 
Mme.  Shimadzu 

Rice  Water 

Cook  the  rice  in  an  enamel  pan  with  a  tight  cover.  Do  not 
use  aluminum  pan.  AVash  the  rice  thoroughly  and  change  the 
water  several  times.  Then  add  water,  allowing  about  an  inch  over 
the  surface  of  the  rice.  Cook  over  a  medium  fire  at  first  and  then 
turn  on  the  gas  until  water  boils  over,  then  turn  the  fire  quite  low. 
Keep  it  over  the  slow  fire  about  fifteen  minutes,  or  longer,  until  the 
rice  is  cooked.  Then  put  out  the  fire  and  let  rice  stand  about  ten 
minutes. 


72  VEGETABLES 

KIDNEY  BEANS,  SOUTHERN  STYLE 

Mrs.  James  Blackstone  Barnet 

1  can  kidney  beans  Butter 

Cheese  Salt  and  paprika 

Cover  the  bottom  of  an  iron  skillet  with  pieces  of  butter  and 
slices  of  cheese.  When  warm  pour  in  a  can  of  kidney  beans ;  with 
salt  and  paprika  and  serve  on  toast.  This  makes  a  delicious  Sun- 
day evening  supper,  or  luncheon  dish. 

MOULDED   SPINACH  WITH   CREAMED  MUSHROOMS 

Mrs.  John  S.  Brown 

1  pk.  spinach  %  tsp.  salt 

%  cup  butter 

Pick  over  and  wash  spinach.  Cook  rather  slowly  in  its  own 
juice  and  the  moisture  remaining  on  the  leaves  after  washing. 
Chop  fine;  season  with  butter  and  salt.  Reheat  and  press  into 
border  mold.  Keep  warm  until  serving,  w^hen  turn  into  hot  plat- 
ter and  fill  center  with  creamed  mushrooms  prepared  as  follows: 

1  lb.  mushrooms  5  tbsp.  butter 

%  cup  thin  cream  IV2  tbsp,  flour 

V2  tsp.  salt  Few  grains  of  pepper 

Clean  mushrooms,  cutting  both  stems  and  caps  in  thin  slices. 
Melt  butter,  add  mushrooms  and  cook  three  minutes.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  pour  over  the  cream  and  cook  five 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  In  place  of  mushrooms  the  mold 
may  be  filled  with  small  buttered  beets  and  the  whole  served  with 
one  and  one-half  cups  white  sauce  and  decorated  with  hard  boiled 
eggs  cut  lengthwise  into  sixths.  • 

STRINGED   BEANS   AND    TOMATO    SAUCE 

Mrs.  P.  Eugene  Clark 

1  qt.  stringed  beans  1  tsp.  salt 

2  tbsp.  butter  1  eup  strained  tomatoes 
'1  tsp.  sugar  2  tbsp.  flour 

1/4  tsp.  pepper 
String  beans  carefully,  breaking  into  pieces,  and  put  into 
boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  salt  to  a  quart  of  water.  When 
tender  reduce  the  liquor  to  half  a  cup ;  heat  the  butter,  add  flour 
and  seasoning  and  then  the  strained  tomatoes.  Cook  until  smooth 
and  pour  over  the  beans.  Cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes  and 
serve  hot. 


73 

TIME  TABLE  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES 

Miss  Jenny  H.  Snow 

Asparagus    15  minutes 

Beans    (String)    • i  hour 

Beans  (Shelled)    1  to  11/2  hours 

Beets 1  to  4  hours 

Brussels   Sprouts   20  to  30  min. 

Cabbage     1/2  hour 

Carrots    20  to   45   min. 

Cauliflower    20  min. 

Celery     1/2  hour 

Corn   10  min. 

Greens    (Spinach)    20  to  30   min. 

Onions    1/2  to     1  hour 

Oyster    Plant    45  to   60  min. 

Parsnips 30  to   45   min. 

Peas    20  to   30   min. 

Potatoes    (Irish)    30  to   45  min. 

Potatoes    (Sweet)    20  to   30  min. 

Squash   (Summer) 20  to   30   min. 

Squash  (Winter)    , 30  min. 

Tomatoes 15  to  20  min. 

Turnips    30  to   45   min. 

Kohl-rabi , 30  min. 


TABLE   OF  MEASURES   FOR   SERVING 
Mrs.  Royal  Wentworth  Irwin 

%  lb.  coffee  makes  1  gallon,  or.  . : 25  cups 

1  lb.   coffee   serves 33  people 

1  gallon  of  ice  cream  in  bulk  serves 30  people 

1  2-quart  brick  ice  cream  makes 16  slices 

1  gallon  water   ice  serves 40  people 

1  3-lb.   chicken  makes 2  quarts  salad 

2  quarts   salad   serves 12  or  14  people 

1  regular  sized  cake  makes 20  squares 

2  quarts  soup  serves 6  or  8  people 

1  quart   oysters,   creamed,  fills 12  large  patties 

1  large   chicken   makes 20  croquettes 

1  medium  sized  loaf  of  bread  makes 10  large  sandwiches 

In  catering  for  a  large  company  provide  for  two-thirds  of 
number  invited. 


Some  hae  meat  and  canna  eat, 

And  some  would  eat  that  want  it, 

But  we  hae  meat,  and  we  can  eat, 
Sae  let  the  Lord  be  than  kit. 

— Burns 


UNIVERSrrv  of  ILLrNOIS-URBANA 


11    I 


3  0112  073138080 


