TX 

L25" 


OCT 


«"* 


/' 


>-  v* 


-     | 
V 


V* 


* 


THE  WORLD'S  FAIR   RECIPE   BOOK. 

CONTAINING  OVER  BOD  PRACTICAL 
.  '  .  AND  ECONOMICAL  RECIPES  .  ■  . 


y 


THE  FERRIS  WHEEL 
HEIGHT  264  FEET 


Entered  According  to  Act  of  Congress  on  the  12th  day  of  April,  1b93.  by 
Jacob F   Landis  with  the  Librarian  of  Congress  at  Washington.  I).  C. 

PUBLISHED    BY 

JACOB  F.  LANDIS, 

PHILADELPHIA,  OR  231   MILTON  ST  ,  CAMDEN,  N.  J. 


PRICE  50  CENTS. 


AGENTS  WANTED  EVERYWHERE. 


WORLD'S  FAIR  RECIPES. 


BREAD  AND  BISCUIT. 


Boston  Brown  Bread. 

One  cup  flour,  three  cups  corn  meal,  two  cups  sour 
milk,  two-thirds  cup  molasses,  two  teaspoons  soda, 
and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt ;  put  in  baking  powder 
boxes  and  steam  three  hours. 

Breakfast  Cake. 

Mix  two  cups  flour,  one  cup  milk,  three  tablespoons 
butter,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  egg,  and  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder ;  bake  in  a  flat  tin. 

Breakfast  Puffs. 

One  pint  flour,  one  pint  milk,  two  eggs,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  put  the  sifted  flour  in  a 
pan  with  the  butter  and  eggs  in  the  center,  work 
them  thoroughly  into  the  flour,  adding  gradually  the 
milk  until  all  is  a  smooth  paste ,  bake  in  roll  pans  in 
a  quick  oven. 

Brown  Bread. 

Two  cups  corn  meal,  one  cup  flour,  two  cups  sour 
milk,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  molasses,  two 
teaspoons  soda,  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt ;  mix  flour, 
meal  and  molasses,  adding  milk  and  soda  last ;  steam 
two  hours,  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Corn  Bread. 

One  pint  Indian  meal,  half  pint  flour,  one  pint 
sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoons  melted  but- 
ter, two  of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  two  teaspoonsful 
baking  powder. 


Corn  Cakes. 

One  pint  flour,  one  pint  corn  meal,  one  tablespoon 
lard  or  butter,  three  teaspoons  sugar,  three  heaping 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and 
one  pint  or  enough  water  or  milk  to  make  a  smooth 
batter;   bake  in  patty  pans  one-half  hour. 

Corn  Muffins,  No.  1. 

Two  cups  corn  meal,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  milk, 
one  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  and  two  tablespoons  baking  powder. 

Corn  Muffins,  No.  2. 

Beat  together  two  tablespoons  sugar,  butter  size  of 
walnut,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt;  add  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half 
cup  corn  meal,  into  which  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  have  been  stirred,  and  one  cup  sweet  milk; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven,  in  warm  gem  pans,  well  but- 
tered. 

Cream  Biscuit. 

Two  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  sour  cream,  one- half 
cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon 
soda;  mix  salt  and  baking  powder  with  flour,  dissolve 
soda  in  two  tablespoons  cold  water  and  add  it  to  the 
milk  and  cream,  stir  well  and  mix  with  flour,  drop 
in  baking  pan  and  bake  in  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

Ego  Rolls. 

Two  teacups  milk,  two  eggs,  three  and  one-half 
scant  cups  sifted  flour,  a  little  salt,  heat  gem  pans 
hot,  put  a  little  lard  in  each    and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

For  popovers  add  four  tea&poons  of  baking  powder ; 
bake  in  patty  pans  in  quick  oven. 

Florence  Puffs. 

One  quart  flour,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  boiled  and 
cooled,    one   tablespoon    sugar,    one   cup   yeast,    one 


tablespoon  butter,  and  a  little  salt;  mix  at  morning, 
knead  when  light,  let  it  rise  again,  and  when  light 
shape  for  pan. 

Graham  Bread. 

Set  at  night  soft  sponge  with  one  yeast  cake,  and 
wheat  flour,  in  the  morning  add  one-half  cup  molasses, 
and  graham  flour  to  mold  into  soft  loaves  ;  bake  when 
light. 

Graham  Bread. 

Take  two  quarts  buttermilk,  pint  of  water,  two  cups 
sugar  (or  a  cup  of  molasses),  four  teaspoonsful  soda; 
this  will  make  four  tins  of  bread ;  the  tins  should  be 
deep— not  too  large. 

Graham  Gems,  No.  1. 

One-half  pint  milk,  even  teaspoon  soda,  the  same 
of  salt,  small  piece  of  butter,  and  if  milk  be  sweet 
one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  and  enough  graham  flour 
for  thick  batter ;  bake  in  hot,  greased  pans. 

Graham  Gems,  No.  2. 

One  egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one 
cup  graham  flour,  one-half  cup  wheat  flour,  scant 
teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  tea- 
spoons shortening. 

Ginger  Bread. 

Melt  together  one  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
one -hall  cup  butter,  stir  in  one-half  cup  sour  cream 
or  milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  salaratus,  one  tea- 
spoon ground  cloves,  one  tablespoon  ginger  and  cin- 
namon, and  two  cups  flour;  add  raisins  if  desired. 

Gingerbread,  No.  2. 

One*  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  half  cup  butter,  three  cups  flour  mixed 
with  two  teaspoonsful  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful 
each  ot  ginger,  cloves  and  cinnamon. 


Indian  Steam  Loaf. 

Two  cups  bolted  meal,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  mo- 
lasses, one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, and  a  little  salt ;  steam  one  and  one-half  hours  in 
tightly  covered  dish. 

Jenny  Lind. 

One  and  one -half  cup  flour,  one  egg,  one-fourth  cup 
butter,  tablespoon  sugar,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk, 
one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar; 
bake  in  gem  pans  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. 

Muffins,  No.  1. 

One  egg,  even  teaspoon  butter,  three-fourths  cup 
milk,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a 
little  salt ;  bake  in  gem  pans. 

Muffins,  No.  2. 

Three-fourths  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one  half  cup  lard, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  half  cup  cold  water,  two  cups 
flour,  two  cups  cornucopia  or  fine  bolted  Indian  meal, 
four  scant  teaspoons  salt ;  bake  in  patty  pans  in  quick 
oven. 

Parker  Rolls. 

Boil  one  pint  milk,  melt  in  it  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter and  two  of  sugar,  when  nearly  cool  stir  in  with  a 
knife  one-half  cup  yeast,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  thick  batter,  not  too  stiff;  let  it  rise  over 
night  and  in  the  morning  add  enough  flour  to  knead 
smooth,  and  let  it  stand  until  midday  ;  then  with  little 
kneading,  roll  out  and  cut  with  a  tumbler,  butter 
one  side  and  double  over  ;  place  in  a  pan  apart  from 
each  other,  in  forty  minutes  they  will  be  ready  to 
bake  in  quick  oven.  For  supper  set  sponge  inthe 
morning. 

Sally  Lunn. 

One  quart  flour,  butter  size  of  egg,  three  table- 
spoons sugar,  two  eggs,  two  teacups  milk,  two  tea- 
spoons cream  tartar,  one  of  soda  and  a  little  salt ;  mix 


together  the  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  cream  tartar,  add 
eggs,  melted  butter  and  one  cup  milk,  then  stir  in 
thoroughly  the  soda,  dissolve  in  the  other  cup  of  milk  ; 
bake  in  two  round  pans. 

Soft  Gingerbread. 

One  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  allspice,  two  caps 
flour  sifted  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  baking 
powder.     Bake  in  shallow  or  small  pans. 

Soft  Gingerbread. 

Take  half  pound  butter,  half  pound  sugar,  pint  mo- 
lasses, three  pints  flour,  six  eggs,  pint  sour  milk,  tea 
spoonful  soda,  cinnamon,  ginger,  and  cloves;  bake  in 
shallow  pans. 

Sponge  Gingerbread. 

Mix  one  cup  molasses,  half  cup  melted  butter,  and 
one  tablespoonful  ginger,  make  it  quite  warm,  then 
add  one  cup  sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  one  teaspoon- 
ful soda  and  two  well  beaten  eggs,  flour  enough  to 
make  like  pound  cake. 

Sugar  Biscuit. 

Take  one  pound  sugar,  cup  of  sweet  milk,  cup  of 
butter,  three  eggs,  teaspoonful  soda,  and  one  of  cream 
tartar. 

Waffles. 

Three  eggs,  one  quart  sour  milk,  two  tablespoons 
butter,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  scant  teaspoon 
soda,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter  ; 
bake  in  waffle  irons. 

Wheat  Gems. 

One  egg,  butter  size  of  egg  (melted),  heaping  cup 
of  milk,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  ; 
bake  in  quick  oven,  in  hot  gem  pans. 


Waffles. 

One  quart  milk  with  yolks  of  two  eggs  put  in,  one 
quart  flour  with  two  teaspoonsful  baking  powder, 
tablespoonful  melted  butter,  pinch  of  salt,  put  in  just 
before  baking  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth. 

Wheat  Muffins. 

One  pint  milk,  two  or  three  eggs,  half  teaspoonful 
soda,  one  of  cream  tartar,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
salt,  bake  in  muffin  rings  or  gem  pans. 


CAKES. 


Hints. 


Use  pastry  flour  for  cake  and  pie  and  sweet  lard  for 
greasing  cake  tins,  and  after  greasing  sprinkle  wich 
flour  to  prevent  cake  sticking.  Crusts  for  tarts,  or 
pies  to  be  filled  after  baking,  if  pricked  with  a  fork 
after  being  rolled  out  will  not  blister.  The  whites  of 
eggs  should  be  beaten  very  stiff,  the  yolks  till  thick 
and  very  light  yellow.  For  extra  light  cake  always 
separate  the  whites  and  yolks. 

Almond  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  three  fourths  cup  butter,  one-half 
cup  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately,  two  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  pound  almonds,  blanched  and  sliced, 
stirred  in  last,  leaving  a  few  whole  to  put  on  icing. 

Angel  Cake. 

Whites  of  nine  large  eggs,  one  and  one -fourth  cups 
sifted  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar,  pinch  salt  added  to  eggs  be- 
fore beating,  sift  flour  four  or  five  times,  beat  eggs 
one-half,  and    then  add  cream  tartar,  and  beat  very 


stiff,  stir  in  sugar,  and  then  the  flour  very  lightly, 
flavor  with  vanilla,  bake  in  a  Van  Duesen  pan,  if  not, 
in  an  nngreased  pan,  and  invert  till  cold/  Use  yolks 
for  Gold  Loaf. 

Apple  Layer. 

Butter  size  of  egg,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one 
and  one-fourth  cups  milk,  one  egg,  and  yolk,  of 
another,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

For  Filling — One  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  large 
apple  grated,  white  of  one  egg,  flavor  with  vanilla, 
beat  twenty  minutes  ;  or  two  large  sour  apples  grated, 
grated  rind  and  juice  one  lemon,  one  egg  well  beaten, 
three  tablespoons  sugar;  mix  all  together  and  boil 
just  ten  minutes. 

Allentown  Cake. 

Take  a  cup  and  a  half  of  potatoes,  mashed  fine,  one 
cup  yeast,  two  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of 
butter  and  lard  mixed,  two  eggs;  set  to  rise  in  the 
evening,  knead  it  up  like  bread,  in  the  morning,  and 
bake  in  quite  small  pans ;  when  light,  take  butter, 
sugar  and  flour,  and  rub  it  together  to  put  on  top  just 
before  baking. 

Berwick  Sponge. 

Beat  six  eggs  two  minutes,  add  three  cups  sugar, 
and  beat  five  minutes,  two  cups  flour,  with  two  tea- 
spoons cream  tartar,  and  beat  two  minutes,  one  cup 
water,  with  one  teaspoon  soda,  and  beat  one  minute, 
add  a  little  salt,  grated  peel  and  half  the  juice  one 
lemon;  add  two  more  cups  flour,  beat  all  together 
another  minute ;  observe  the  time  exactly ;  bake  in 
rather  deep  pans. 

Bread  Cake. 

One  cup  bread  dough,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  short- 
ening, one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  teasuoon  soda, 
one  egg,  one  teaspoon  all  kind  spice,  one  cup  milk,  a 
pinch  salt ;  add  flour  to  make  stiff  batter,  stand  in 
pan  one-half  hour  before  baking. 


8 

Best's  Cake. 

Take  one  pouud  of  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sour  cream,  four  cups  flour,  five  eggs,  one  Teaspoonful 
soda,  two  teaspoonsful  cream  tartar :  flavor  with  bit- 
ter almond. 

Beverly  Cake. 

Take  a  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
two  and  a  half  cups  flour,  half  cup  butter,  three  eggs, 
teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  and  half  teaspoonful  soda ; 
flavor. 

Caramel  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  pulver- 
ized sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  four  eggs,  two  cups 
flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Icing — Three  cups  light  brown  sugar,  one  cup  cream 
or  milk,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter ;  cook  at  least 
twenty  minutes  slowly^  if  desired  add  a  little  sweet 
cbocolate. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder. 

Filling—  One-half  cake  chocolate  grated  and  dis- 
solved in  scant  cup  milk;  let  it  boil,  add  one-half  cup 
sugar,  small  piece  butter,  a  little  salt  and  flavoring. 

Caroline  Cake. 

Two  cups  pulverized  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  cream, 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  two  cups  flour,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Chocolate  Layer  Cake. 

One  half  cake  chocolate,  grated,  one-half  cup  milk, 
yolk  one  egg;  cook  till  it  thickens;  when  cold  add 
two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup 
milk,  two  eggs,  two  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  flavor  with  vanilla  ;  this  will  make  four  layers, 


9 

Filling— Boil  one  cup  pulverized  sugar  with  just 
water  enough  to  dissolve  till  it  hairs,  stir  till  it  cools 
a  little,  and  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 

Three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk, 
four  cups  flour,  whites  seven  eggs,  one  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  one  grated  cocoanut. 

Cocoanut  Cream. 

One-fourth  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one -half 
cup  milk,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  two  cups  flour,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Filling  -One  cup  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  co- 
coanut, one  egg,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch,  pinch  of 
salt,  cook  till  thick,  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Coffee  Cake. 

One  cup  each  of  butter,  sugar,  molasses  and  coffee, 
two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  cloves,  one  of  cinnamon,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  one  cup  raisins. 

Composition  Cake. 

Three  pints  flour,  one-half  of  sour  milk,  one  of  but- 
ter, one  and  one-half  of  "A"  sugar,  and  one  of  stoned 
and  chopped  raisins,  eight  eggs,  wine  glass  grape  juice, 
scant  teaspoon  soda,  two  pounds  currants,  one-half 
pound  citron,  one  nutmeg,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon, 
one  of  allspice,  one  of  mace,  one -half  of  cloves  ;  heat 
butter  and  cream,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  grape  juice ;  stir  into  sour  milk,  soda  dis- 
solved in  tablespoon  hot  water,  mix  all,  add  flour  and 
last  the  fruit ;  bake  in  three  loaves,  two  hours  in  slow 
oven. 

Corn  Starch  Cake. 

Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  one  cup 
sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  corn  starch, 
fill  up  cup  with  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der sifted  in  one  cup  flour ;  add  currants  or  citron,  if 
desired. 


10 

Corn  Starch  Cake  With  Fig  Filling. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  two 
cups  flour,  whites  six  eggs,  one  cup  corn  starch,  three 
teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Fig  Filling— One-half  pound  figs  cut  fine,  one  cup 
raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  one-half  cup  blanched 
almonds,  whites  two  eggs,  twelve  teaspoons  powdered 
sugar. 

Cup  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder. 

Cream  Puffs. 

One  pint  water,  one-half  pound  lard  ;  let  them  come 
to  a  boil,  then  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  flour, 
work  it  in  while  boiling  on  the  stove,  then  rub  in  this 
batter,  twelve  eggs  and  one-fourth  ounce  hartshorn. 

Cream  Cookies. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  three 
tablespoons  sweet  cream,  one  even  teaspoon  soda,  one 
of  caraway  seed. 

Custard  Cake. 

Tnree  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  sugar,  three  table- 
spoons water,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  ;  bake  in  three  layers. 

Custard  for  Filling— One  cup  milk,  yolk  one  egg, 
one  large  tablespoon  corn  starch,  one-half  cup  sugar  ; 
flavor  with  lemon  ;  when  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil  add 
the  egg  well  beaten,  with  the  corn  starch. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Two- thirds  of  a  cup  ot  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three 
cups  flour,  one  cup  milk,  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  two  of  cream  tartar ;  baked  in  lyers. 

Corn  Starch  Cake. 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  and 
a  half  cups  flour,  half  cup  corn  starch,  half  cup  milk, 


11 

four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar  and  half  tea- 
spoonful  soda;  leave  out  white  of  one  egg  for  frost- 
ing. 

Cookies. 

Sugar,  two  cups,  one  cup  butter,  three-fourths  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  five  cups  flour,  in  which  two  tea- 
spoonsful  baking  powder  have  been  mixed;  roll  thin 
and  bake  quickly. 

Corn  Cakes. 

Sour  milk  and  as  much  corn  meal  as  you  want,  stir 
it  up  in  the  evening,  let,  it  stand  until  morning,  then 
add  soda  and  salt,  bake. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter, 
three  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoonsf  ul  baking 
powder,  one  small  cocoanut  grated  and  stirred  in. 

Crullers. 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sour  milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  two  of 
cream  tartar,  nutmeg. 

Cream  Puffs. 

One  cup  hot  water,  one-third  cup  butter,  boil  to- 
gether, and  while  boiling  stir  in  one  cup  sifted  flour, 
take  from  the  fire  and  stir  to  a  smooth  paste,  cool, 
then  stir  in  three,  not  beaten,  stir  five  minutes,  drop 
in  tablespoonsful  on  a  buttered  tin  and  bake.  After 
thoroughly  cold  split  them  open  on  one  side  with  a 
sharp  knife,  and  fill  with  cream  prepared  as  follows : 
One  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  two  ta- 
blespoonsful flour,  boil,  and  when  cool  flavor.  If  these 
directions  are  followed  the  result  will  be  all  that  can 
be  wished. 

Cream  Cake. 

Take  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  half  a  cup  sour 
cream,  and  half   a  cup  thick  milk,  four  cups  of  flour, 


12 

three  eggs,  one   teaspoonful   soda;  the   butter   to  he 
added  after  all  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  are  mixed. 

Cup  Cake. 
Take   three    cups  flour,  three    cups  sugar,  one  cup 
butter,  one   cup   sour  cream,  five  eggs,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda  ;  bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 

•     Daisy  Hill  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  half  cup 
milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Delicate  Cake. 

One  coffee  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one 
cup  milk,  whites  two  eggs,  two  coffee  cups  flour,  one 
scant  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Doughnuts. 

Two  cups  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  egg,  one  scant  teaspoon  each  of  soda  and 
ground  nutmeg ;  mix  quite  soft  and  fry  at  once  in  hot 
lard. 

Try  all  or  part  beef  suet  for  frying  doughnuts. 

Dried  Apple  Cake. 

One  pint  dried  apples  soaked  over  night,  chop  them 
and  add  two  cups  molasses, boil  them  well  together,  add 
one  cup  each  sugar,  milk  and  butter,  three  cups  flour, 
one  egg,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  of  cinnamon,  one  of 
cloves,  one  of  nutmeg,  and  fruit  to  taste. 

Dayton  Cake. 

Sugar  three  cups,  flour  five  cups,  butter  one  and  one- 
half  cups,  water  one  cup,  five  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful 
cream  tartar,  and  one  of  soda.     Flavor  with  lemon. 

Doughnuts,  No.  2. 

One  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter;  mix 
soft. 


13 

Dover  Cake. 

Take  one  pound  sugar,  one  pound  flour,  half  pound 
butter,  six  eggs,  half  pint  sweet  milk  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda. 

Fancy  Cake. 

Yolk  five  egjiS,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  three 
tablespoons  cold  water,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
pinch  salt ;  bake  and  spread  with  jelly  and  roll ;  whites 
five  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one  cup  corn  starch,  flavor  to  taste ;  put  a  portion  in 
cake  tin,  lay  jelly  roll  in  center,  pour  in  the  rest,  bake, 
and  frost  when  done. 

Fig  Cake. 

One  half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  flour,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, one  pound  figs,  chopped  fine  and  put  in  pan  on 
stove  with  one  teacup  water,  add  one-half  cup  sugar ; 
cook  until  soft  and  smooth,  and  spread  between  layers. 

Fruit  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter, 
one -halt  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  eggs, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  four  cups  flour,  two 
pounds  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  one-fourth  pound 
citron,  spice  to  taste. 

Fruit  Cake. 

Mix  one  pound  sugar,  half  pound  butter  or  lard, 
two  eggs,  one  teacup  sour  milk,  half  teaspoonful  creani 
tartar,  one  of  soda;  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter;  bake  in  thin  layers,  in  pie  pans;  when  cold 
spread  stewed  apples  or  dried  peaches,  or  any  kind  of 
truit,  between  the  layers  of  cake. 

Fruit  Cake. 

Raisins,  four  pounds,  currants,  four  pounds;  citron, 
one  pound ;  sugar,  one  pound  ;  butter,  one  pound  ; 
flour,  one  pound  ;  eleven  eggs  ;  molasses,  one  cup  ;  nut- 


14 

megs,  four;  brandy,  one  gill;  wine,  one  gill;  rose 
water,  two  spoonsful ;  almonds,  one  pound,  scald  and 
peel.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  three  and  one- 
half  to  four  hours. 

Filling  for  Cream  Puffs. 

One  quart  milk,  one-half  pound  pulverized  sugar, 
four  eggs,  one-half  pound  flour ;  boil  the  milk  for  fill- 
ing, mix  the  sugar,  flour  and  eggs  in  a  bowl  so  it  will 
not  lump;  when  the  milk  boils  add  the  batter,  keep 
stirring  it  with  a  spoon  so  it  will  not  lump,  then  add 
the  vanilla ;  then  it  is  ready  for  use. 

In  baking  the  cream  puffs  make  them  about  the 
size  of  an  egg,  bake  in  pretty  hot  oven ;  do  not  grease 
the  tins  or  pans  that  you  bake  them  on  ;  do  not  touch 
them  before  they  are  done  or  they  will  fall. 

Gold  Loaf  Cake. 

Yolks  eight  eggs,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  scant 
one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
cream,  butter  and  sugar,  beat  yolks  to  a  stiff  froth, 
add  milk,  flour  and  powder,  and  vanilla;  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  thirty -five  to  fifty  minutes.  Use 
whites  of  eggs  for  Angel  cake. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

Two  cups  molasses,  two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  lard, 
two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  ginger,  two  of  cinnamon, 
two  of  salaratus,  six  tablespoons  hot  water. 

Gold  and  Silver  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups 
flour,  two-third  cup  milk,  two  teaspoons  cream  tar- 
tar, one  of  soda,  whites  three  eggs,  flavor  with  lemon. 
Gold  Pat 't— One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar, 
three  cups  flour,  two-thirds  cup  milk,  yolks  three 
eggs,  grated  chocolate  to  make  dark,  place  in  layers, 
begin  with  white,  and  frost  with  chocolate. 


15 

German  Coffee  Cake. 

One  pint  of  light  bread  sponge  that  is  ready  for  the 
pans,  work  into  this  two  ounces  butter,  half  cup  sugar 
and  two  beaten  eggs,  one-half  cup  raisins  or  currants 
well  floured  to  be  added  last  to  the  batter,  which 
should  be  beaten  as  an  ordinary  cake  batter  and  the 
fruit  stirred  in  very  lightly,  so  that  it  may  retain  its 
place  through  the  cake. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  half  cup  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  ginger,  two  teaspoon sful  baking 
powder,  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  to  roll. 

Ginger  Cake. 

Beat  thoroughly  together  one  cup  molasses,  four 
tablespoonsful  melted  batter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  three 
teapoonsful  sugar  and  one  of  salaratus  dissolved  in 
one  tablespoonful  of  milk,  stir  in  flour  to  make  a 
dough  almost  as  stiff  as  bread  dough,  then  stir  in 
quickly  one  cup  boiling  water  and  bake  at  once.  A 
good  soft  ginger  cake  may  be  made  by  adding  one 
teaspoonful  ginger. 

Ginger  Cookies. 

Take  one  cup  sugar,  cup  molasses,  one  cup  butter, 
one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  of  ginger,  one 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  seven  cups  flour ;  roll  thin. 

Ginger  Cakes. 

Take  one  quart  New  Orleans  molasses,  a  large  tea- 
cupful  of  lard,  a  cup  of  boiling  water;  stir  these  in- 
gredients together,  then  mix  two  tablespoonsful  of 
soda,  dry,  and  from  one  to  two  tablespoonsful  of  gin- 
ger ;  stir  it  thick,  so  that  they  can  be  rolled  out  nicely, 
then  bake. 

Green  Corn  Patties. 

One  pint  grated  corn,  one  egg,  one  spoonful  of  flour, 
one  spoonful  sweet  milk,  pepper  and  salt,  fry  with 
equal  parts  butter  and  lard 


16 

Hickory  Nut  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  milk,  two 
cups  flour,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  nuts  broken  up, 
two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  soda. 

Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake. 

One  cup  flour,  in  which  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar 
has  been  well  mixed  ;  one  cup  sugar  and  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  lemon ;  stir  all 
together  until  quite  smooth,  then  add  half  teacupful 
boiling  water,  in  which  one-half  teaspoonful  soda  has 
been  dissolved  ;  stir  briskly  and  put  in  the  oven  as  soon 
as  possible. 

Hermits. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar, 
one  cup  raisins,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two 
tablespoons  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoon  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg;  stiffen  with 
flour,  cut  with  scolloped  cutter. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  flour,  whites  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder. 

Cream— Whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  four 
cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  pint  boiling  water, 
and  boiled  until  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  should 
be  stiff,  but  not  brittle,  pour  while  hot  on  eggs,  stir- 
ring all  the  time,  then  add  while  hot  one-half  teaspoon 
citric  acid  and  one  of  vanilla,  beat  until  cold. 

Icino  for  Cake. 

One  cup  milk,  when  It  comes  to  a  boil  add  one  cup 
grated  chocolate,  when  chocolate  is  dissolved  add  one 
and  a  half  cups  pulverized  sugar,  the  yolks  of  five 
eggs  ;  after  it  has  been  taken  from  the  stove  add  one 
teaspoonful  vanilla. 


17 

Icing  for  Cakes. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  high  froth,  then 
add  a  quarter  pound  white  pulverized  sugar,  beat  it 
well,  until  it  will  lie  in  a  heap,  flavor  with  any  kind 
of  flavor  ;  this  will  frost  the  top  of  a  common  sized 
cake ;  heap  what  you  suppose  to  be  sufficient  in  the 
center  of  the  cake,  then  dip  a  broad  bladed  knife  in 
cold  water  and  spread  the  ice  evenly  over  the  whole 
surface. 

Jelly  Cake. 

Take  a  cup  and  a  half  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  cup 
sour  milk,  two  cups  and  a  half  flour,  two  eggs,  half 
teaspoonful  soda,,  and  one  teaspoonf ul  cream  tartar. 

Jumbles. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  four  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoonsful  baking  powder. 

Jumbles. 

One  cup  sugar,  scant  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  milk, 
three  cups  flour,  spice  or  flavor  to  taste. 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake. 

One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two- 
thirds  cup  cold  water, two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder.     Bake  in  layers. 

Jelly— The  grated  rind  and  juice  one  lemon,  one  egg, 
one  cup  sugar,  boil  in  double  boiler,  when  cooked, 
spread  on  cake  and  frost. 

Lemon  Cake. 

Take  three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup 
thick  milk,  four  cups  flour,  five  eggs,  one  teaspoon- 
ful soda,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Marble  Chocolate  Cake. 

One-half  cup    butter,  one    cup  sugar,  one-half  cup 
milk,  two  scant   cups  flour,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoons 
2 


18 

baking  powder;  to  one  square  of  grated  chocolate, 
add  one  tablespoon  sugar,  and  two  tablespoons  but- 
ter, put  a  layer  of  the  cake  in  the  pan  and  put  in  the 
dark  part  in  spots,  until  all  is  used. 

Minnehaha  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  three  for  fill- 
ing, one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup 
milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  of  cream 
tartar.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling  and  Frosting —Whites  three  eggs,  one  and 
one-half  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  chopped 
raisins,  add  a  little  water  to  sugar,  and  boil  till  it  will 
hair,  then  add  the  beaten  whites,  and  to  part  of  this 
add  the  raisins,  the  rest  to  use  to  frost  the  tip. 

Malasses  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  butter  and  lard,  two  cups 
sugar,  two  cups  molasses,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  two  of  soda,  one  of  ginger,  one  half  tea- 
spoon each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  allspice,  two 
eggs,  sixteen  cups  flour  ;  mix  and  let  stand  over  night, 
then  roll  and  bake,  making  one  hundred  and  seventy- 
five  cookies. 

Molasses  Spice  Cake. 

One  cup  shortening,  one  cup  sugar,  two  cups  mo- 
lasses, two  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
and  one  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  mace,  a  lit- 
tle salt,  one  pound  raisins,  chopped,  five  cups  flour. 

Middlesex  Cake. 

Take  one  cup  sour  cream,  two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs, 
twotablespoonsful  of  melted  butter,  one  pint  of  flour, 
half  a  teaspoonf ul  of  soda  ;  bake  same  as  above. 

Molasses  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  of  molasses,  the  same  of  sour 
milk,  four  cups  flour,  half  cup  shortening,  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  nutmeg  if  desired  ;  bake  in  two  tins. 


19 
Orange  Cake. 

Loaf,  Layer  or  Cup  Cakes. 

The  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  whites  of  two,  well 
beaten,  two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
cold  water,  three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  grated  rind  and  pulp  of  one  orange.  Use 
the  remaining  whites  of  eggs  for  icing,  and  flavor  with 
orange  for  layer  cake. 

Pork  Cake. 

One  pound  pork,  chopped  fine,  one  pint  coffee,  two 
cups  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two 
of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  nutmeg,  six  cups 
flour,  one  pound  raisins,  one  pound  citron. 

Pancakes. 

One  pint  milk,  three  eggs,  flour  enough  to  make  a 
thin  batter,  salt  to  taste;  drop  in  hot  lard. 

Pineapple  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  same  of  sweet 
milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  one  and  a 
half  tespoonsful  baking  powder,  half  teaspoonful  va- 
nilla; bake  in  layers.  For  the  jelly:  One-half  grated 
pineapple,  one  grated  lemon,  three-quarters  cup  milk, 
teaspoonful  corn  starch  ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  or  until 
it  thickens. 

Pop-Overs. 

Three  cups  milk,  three  cups  flour,  three  eggs;  bake 
half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

Quality  Crest  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  good  measure,  two  cups  sugar,  one 
scant  cup  milk,  five  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of 
two,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  one  half  grated  nutmeg;  when  baked 
frost  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half 
cups  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  six  tablespoons 
grated  chocolate. 


20 

Rolled  Jell  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  three  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately,  one  cup  flour,  two  tablespoons  milk,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder ;  bake  in  large  dripping 
pan,  cut  off  brown  edge,  lay  on  wet  towel,  spread 
with  jell,  roll  while  hot. 

Royal  Fruit  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one 
cup  molasses,  five  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  milk,  five 
eggs,  two  pounds  chopped  raisins,  two  of  currants,  one 
of  citron,  two  teaspoons  cloves,  two  of  cinnamon,  one 
of  nutmeg,  one  grated  lemon  rind  and  juice. 

Raised  Doughnuts. 

One  pint  milk,  one  cup  yeast,  two  eggs,  half  cup 
butter,  one  cup  sugar;  let  it  rise,  then  knead  in  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  it  as  stiff  as  bread  dough,  and 
when  it  has  risen  again  cut  out  with  a  tumbler  or  cut 
in  squares,  then  boil  in  hot  lard. 

Railroad  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  three  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful  cream  tartar,  and  half  teaspoonful  soda  ;  put 
the  ingredients  together,  and  beat  until  thoroughly 
mixed  ;  then  bake. 

Striped   Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
cups  milk,  three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  to  one-third  of  this  add  one  cup  chopped  rai- 
sins, one  teaspoon  cinnamon  or  cloves ;  bake  in 
three  parts,  and  pack  with  jell,  putting  the  dark  in 
center. 

Sugar  Cookies. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  two 
tablespoons  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  flavor 
to  taste;  roll  thin,  and  before  cutting,  sprinkle  with 
granulated  sugar,  and  pass  the  rolling  pin  over  lightly  ; 
cut  and  bake. 


21 

Sunshine  Cake. 

Whites  of  seven  small  eggs,  yolks  of  five,  one  cup 
granulated  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  flour,  one -third  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  sift,  measure 
and  set  aside  flour  and  sugar  as  for  Angel  cake  ;  beat 
yolks  very  light,  then  beat  whites  very  stiff,  add 
yolks,  stir  in  sugar,  and  flour,  and  vanilla.  Bake  in 
the  tube  pan. 

Sand  Tarts. 

Take  one  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups 
flour,  one  egg,  half  teaspoonful  soda,  mixed  dry  in  the 
flour;  roll  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Spanish  Sugar  Cake. 

Butter  and  lard  mixed,  half  and  half,  one  and  a  half 
pounds;  sugar,  three  pounds;  eggs,  five ;  buttermilk, 
one  quart.  Beat  the  eggs,  sugar,  and  butter  together 
until  they  are  light  and  creamy,  dissolve  one  table- 
spoonful  of  soda  in  the  buttermilk,  then  pour  all  to- 
gether in  a  crock,  and  then  add  as  much  flour  as  will 
thicken  it  sufficiently  to  role  out  on  tins.  It  must  be 
just  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  Take  out  as  much  as 
will  make  one,  then  roll  it  on  your  cake  tin  before 
putting  them  in  the  oven  ;  wash  them  over  with  warm 
water. 

Spanish  Ginger  Cake. 

New  Orleans  molasses,  three  pints  ;  butter  and  lard, 
mixed,  one  pound  ;  buttermilk,  one  quart ;  one  table- 
spoonful  soda.  Work  the  butter  to  a  cream  ;  dissolve 
the  soda  in  the  milk ;  mix  all  together  in  a  crock, 
then  stiffen  with  your  hand.  Take  out  as  much  as 
will  make  a  cake,  and  roll  it  out  on  your  cake  tin ; 
wash  same  as  Spanish  sugar  cake. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Take  one  pound  sugar,  twelve  eggs,  beat  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour,  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  flour, 
sifted ;  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour  to  one  hour,  according  to  size  of 
cake. 


22 

Surprise  Cake. 

Take  one  cup  sugar,  half  cup  sweet  milk,  half  cup 
butter,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  of  cream 
tartar,  and  flour  enough  to  stiffen  ;  flavor. 

Sugar  Cake. 

Take  one  and  half  pounds  sugar  in  six  ounces  but- 
ter, one  pint  thick  milk,  one  heaped  tablespoonful  of 
soda,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  alum,  flour  enough  to 
stiffen  ;  roll  out  and  bake  on  tins. 

Taylor  Cake. 

Take  six  ounces  dark  brown  sugar,  the  same  of  but- 
ter or  lard,  two  eggs,  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  ;  rub 
well,  then  add  a  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  and 
one  pint  thick  milk  ;  dissolve  one  ounce  soda  in  a  little 
hot  water,  then  add  three  heaped  tincupsful  of  sifted 
flour ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  drop  same  as  drop  cake. 

Variety  Cake, 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  three 
eggs,  three  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
flavor  with  lemon,  mix  together  and  divide  in  four 
parts,  to  one  add  figs  chopped,  to  another  grated  co- 
coanut,  to  another  chopped  raisins,  and  citron,  and 
the  fourth  leave  plain ;  bake  in  jell  pans  and  pack 
with  jell,  the  fig  first,  next  plain,  then  raisins,  and 
last  cocoanut ;  frost  and  cover  with  walnut  meats. 

Walnut  Cake. 

One-fourth  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup 
milk,  three  eggs,  three  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  nut  meats, 
chopped. 

Washington  Cake. 

Take  three  cups  sugar,  four  cups  flour,  one  cup  but- 
ter, one  cup  sweet  milk,  five  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
soda  and  one  cream  tartar ;  bake  in  square  pans. 


23 

White  Mountain  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  sweet  milk, 
two  and  a  half  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful 
cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  flavor  with  lemon. 


CONFECTIONERY. 


Hints. 


Use  as  little  water  as  will  dissolve  the  sugar.  Do 
not  stir  sugar  or  chocolate  candy.  If  possible  use  an 
iron  or  brass  kettle  and  apply  heat  at  bottom,  not  at 
sides.  Use  for  greasing,  washed  butter  or  pure  sweet 
lard,  if  you  prefer.  By  "  boil  till  brittle"  is  meant  boil  • 
ing  the  candy  until  it  will  crack  when  tested  in  cold 
water;  add  soda  or  saleratus  iust  before  taking  from 
fire.  Mark  candies  when  nearly  cold  with  a  buttered 
case  knife. 

Butter  Scotch,  No.  1. 

Three  pounds  coffee  A  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  but- 
ter, one-fourth  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  three  fourths 
cup  water;  boil  till  brittle  and  then  add  one- fourth 
teaspoon  extract  lemon.  Pour  in  tins  one-fourth 
inch  thick  and  mark  in  squares.  This  makes  an  ex- 
cellent pulled  candy. 

Butter  Scotch,  No.  2. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  but- 
ter ;  bgil  to  brittle  ;  cool  and  mark  as  above. 

Butter  Taffy. 

Two  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  four  tablespoonsful 
of  molasses,  two  tablespoonsful  vinegar  and  one-fourth 
cup  of  butter,  boil  until  it  is  brittle  (which  you  can 
see  by  dropping  a  small  quantity  in  cold  water),  then 
pour  into  pans  and  let  it  cool. 


24 

Chocolate  Caramels,  "No.  1. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup 
chocolate  large  piece  of  butter,  one  cup  milk,  one  table- 
spoon glycerine;  boil  over  brisk  fire  and  when  nearly 
done,  add  chocolate.  Do  not  stir  after  it  boils ;  cool 
and  mark. 

Chocolate  Caramels,  No.  2. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  half  cup  molasses,  one  fourth 
pound  chocolate,  shaved  tine,  one-half  cup  milk,  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg,  one-half  teaspoon  flour ;  boil  till  it 
hardens  in  cold  water ;  cool  and  mark. 

Chocolate  Candy. 

One  pound  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  one-fourth  pound  choc- 
olate, shaved  fine;  boil  till  it  hardens  in  cold  water; 
cool  and  mark. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Candy. 

Three  cups  sugar,  three- fourth  cup  water,  a  little 
cream  tartar,  boil  ten  minutes ;  add  one  cup  grated 
cocoanut,  beat  to  a  cream  and  spread  in  cakes  on  but- 
tered paper  to  cool. 

Cream  Candies. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar,  one -half 
cup  cold  water,  boil  quickly  without  stirring  four 
minutes.  Place  kettle  in  cold  water  and  beat  syrup 
till  cold  enough  to  mold,  adding  desired  flavor  while 
beating.  For  cocoanut  creams,  beat  in  shredded  co- 
coanut. For  chocolate  drops,  melt  one-fourth  pound 
chocolate,  shaved  fine,  in  the  top  of  boiling  tea  kettle  ; 
when  the  molded  balls  of  cream  are  cool,  dip  them 
with  fork  into  the  melted  chocolate  and  cool  on 
greased  plates.  For  nut  candies,  mold  in  the  center 
of  the  cream  ball,  the  meal  of  an  almond,  butter-nut 
or  hickory-nut,  and  then  roll  the  ball  in  course  gran- 
ulated sugar. 


25 

Chocolate  Creams. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  half  cup  of  water,  half 
cake  Baker's  chocolate,  boil  the  sugar  and  water  to 
gether  just  five  minutes  after  it  begins  to  boil,  stir  con- 
stantly while  boiling,  add  extract  of  vanilla  to  taste, 
roll  into  fifty  balls  size  of  a  marble,  when  cool  enough 
to  handle ;  dissolve  the  chocolate  in  steam,  roll  the 
balls  in  it  and  place  on  buttered  paper. 

Chocolate  Caromels. 

One  pint  new  milk,  one  cake  chocolate  (one-quarter 
pound),  one  cup  and  a  half,  of  white  sugar.  Try  this 
on  a  buttered  plate,  as  it  will  not  crisp  in  water,  and 
when  done  pour  on  buttered  pans  and  mark  off  in 
squares  with  a  knife  as  it  cools,  and  then  it  will  easily 
break  when  cold.     They  are  very  excellent. 

Delicious  Peanut  Candy. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  peanut  meats 
rubbed  from  skins  and  chopped,  stir  the  sugar  in  a  fry- 
ing pan  over  a  slow  fire,  until  melted,  then  add  pea- 
nuts, cool  and  mark. 

Everton  Ice  Cream  Candy. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  coffee  sugar,  one  cup  water, 
rind  of  a  lemon,  one-eighth  pound  butter,  boil  to  brit- 
tle, set  aside  till  boiling  ceases,  then  stir  in  juice  of  a 
lemon,  remove  rind,  cool  and  pull  as  soon  as  it  can  be 
worked. 

English  Walnut  Cream. 

Make  French  cream  as  directed,  have  ready  some 
English  walnuts,  using  care  not  to  break  the  kernels, 
make  a  ball  of  the  cream  about  the  size  of  a  walnut 
and  place  a  nut  upon  either  side  of  the  ball,  pressing 
it  into  the  cream,  lay  away  a  few  hours  to  dry. 

French  Vanilla  Cream. 

Break  into  a  bowl  the  white  of  one  or  more  eggs, 
add  to  it  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  water,  then  stir 
(do   not  beat  it)  in  the  confectioner's  sugar  until  you 


26 

have  it  stiff  enough  to  mold  in  shape  with  the  fingers, 
flavor  with  vanilla;  after  it  is  formed  into  balls,  cubes 
or  any  other  shape  desired,  lay  them  upon  sheets  of 
waxed  paper  or  plates  and  set  aside  to  dry.  This  is 
the  foundation  of  all  French  cream. 

Horehound  Candy. 

Boil  two  ounces  dried  horehound  in  one  and  one- 
half  pints  water  for  one -half  hour,  strain  and  add 
three  and  one-half  pounds  brown  sugar,  boil  to  brit- 
tle, cool  and  mark. 

How  to  Make  Ice  Cream. 

Take  four  quarts  of  cream  ;  sugar,  two  pounds  ;  eggs, 
three,  well  beaten ;  four  teaspoonsiul  vanilla,  or  any 
flavor  you  choose.  Put  all  in  the  freezer  together, 
then  pack  up  around  your  freezer  with  fine  broken 
ice  and  salt,  then  turn  your  freezer,  and  then,  when 
it  begins  to  draw  water,  why,  then  your  cream  will 
begin  to  freeze,  and  after  it  is  frozen,  draw  off  the 
water  and  pack  your  stand  full  of  ice  and  salt,  and 
cover  up  close  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 

Ice  Cream  Candy. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-third  cup  of  water,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
boil  all  together  about  fifteen,  not  stirring  till  taken 
from  the  fire,  when  the  flavor  is  added. 

Lemon  Maccaroons. 

Mix  one  pound  pulverized  sugar,  four  eggs  well 
whipped,  juice  of  three  lemons,  grated  peel  of  one, 
heaping  cup  prepared  flour,  and  one-half  teaspoon 
grated  nutmeg;  with  hands  lightly  buttered,  mold 
into  walnut  size  ball,  place  on  buttered  paper  two 
inches  apart ;     bake  in  quick  oven. 

Lemon  Taffy. 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one- 
fourth  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup'butter,  lemon  flavor- 
ing, boil  to  brittle,  cool  and  mark. 


27 

Molasses  Candy. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  Porto  Rico  mo- 
lasses, one  tablespoon  vinegar,  butter  size  of  walnut ; 
boil  to  brittle,  do  not  stir,  pull  as  soon  as  it  can  be 
handled. 

Molasses  Candy. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  table 
spoonful  vinegar,  a  little  butter  and  vanilla,  boil  ten 
minutes,  then  cool  it  enough  to  pull. 

Molasses  Candy. 

Two  cups  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  stir 
occasionally  while  boiling  ;  before  taking  from  the  fire 
add  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg  and  one-third  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  pour  into  buttered  pans,  and  when 
cool  enough  pull  it. 

Nut  Candy. 

Two  pints  maple  sugar,  one-half  pint  water,  boil  to 
brittle,  pour  in  greased  tins,  covered  with  hickory 
nut  or  other  nuts,  cool  and  mark. 

Pop  Corn  Balls. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  butter  size  of 
egg*  boil  to  brittle,  then  add  one  teaspoon  soda,  stir 
in  tender  popped  corn  and  mold  in  ball;  in  molding 
occasionally  dip  the  hands  in  cold  water. 

Pop  Corn  Candy. 

Proceed  as  for  pop  corn  balls,  except  instead  of  mold- 
ing into  balls,  roll  quickly  with  a  rolling  pin,  to  two 
inches  thick,  cut  in  cakes  with  sharp  knife;  the  pop 
ped  corn  may  be  stirred  in  crushed,  chopped,  or  in 
whole  kernels. 

Popped  Corn. 
Dip  into  boiling  syrup  and  form  into  balls. 
Sugar  Candy. 

Six  cups  sugar,  one  cup  water,  one  cup  vinegar; 
boil  fifteen  minutes,  add  one  tablespoon  melted  but- 


28 

ter,  and  one  teaspoon  3aleratus  dissolved  water  ;  thin  to 
cool,  pull  as  soon  as  possible,  flavor  while  pulling. 

Scotch  Butter  Candy. 

One  pound  sugar,  one  pint  water,  boil,  and  when 
done  add  one  tablespoonful  butter  and  enough  lemon 
juice  and  oil  of  lemon  to  flavor. 

Walnut  Creams. 

Mix  well  eight  tablespoons  sifted  pulverized  sugar, 
whites  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff,  a  little  vanilla,  mold 
balls  of  this  cream  between  unbroken  halves  of  Eng- 
lish walnut  meats. 

Walnut  Maccaroons. 

Mix  thoroughly  one  cup  pulverized  sugar,  one  egg, 
one  cup  chopped  walnut  meats,  one  tablespoon  flour, 
mold  into  little  cakes,  bake  quickly  in  buttered  drip- 
ping pan. 

White  Taffy. 

Take  three  pounds  white  sugar,  one  cup  water,  half 
cup  cider  vinegar,  take  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  put  all  together  in  a  brass  or  copper  kettle, 
and  boil  until  it  crisps  quick  on  a  stick  in  water ; 
flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  ;  before  you  pull  it  put  it 
on  a  marble  slab,  and  when  cold  enough  pull  it  over 
a  hook.  Brown  taffy  is  made  the  same  way,  only 
with  brown  sugar. 

Vinegar  Candy. 

One  cup  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  vinegar ;  boil  till 
it  crisps  in  cold  water.  This  makes  an  excellent 
candy,  and  something  beneficial  also,  as  it  is  good  for 
colds.  If  the  vinegar  be  very  strong,  take  a  little 
less  of  it,  and  some  water,  but  for  us  the  strength  of 
the  vinegar  never  hurts.  When  done,  pour  out  on  but- 
tered plates,  and  either  mark  off  in  squares  an  inch  or 
two  wide  ass  it  cools  or  else,  when  cool  enough  to  han- 
dle, draw  it  until  it  is  nice  and  white,  then  cut  it  into 
sticks. 


29 

Vanilla  Taffy. 

One  cup  vinegar,  three  cups  sugar,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  va- 
nilla. 


DESSERTS. 


Apple  Ice. 

Grate,  sweeten  and  freeze  well  flavored  apples, 
pears,  peaches  or  quinces. 

Chocolate  Mange. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  little  warm 
water  ;  set  one  quart  milk  in  boiling  water,  and  stir  in 
four  ounces  chocolate,  grated  and  melted,  then  two 
cups  sugar,  and  then  dissolved  gelatine ;  flavor  with 
lemon  and  cool  in  molds. 

Coffee  Bavarian  Cream. 

Soak  one-half  package  gelatine  two  hours  in  one- 
third  cup  cold  water,  then  pour  on  this  one  cup  strong 
coffee  boiling  hot ;  when  the  gelatine  is  dissolved  add 
one  cup  sugar,  strain  all  into  basin  and  set  in  ice 
water ;  beat  it  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  one 
pint  cream  whipped  to  froth  ;  thoroughly  mix,  cool  in 
molds,  and  serve  with  one  pint  cream  and  sugar. 

Coffee  Jelly. 

One  box  gelatine  soaked  in  two  and  one- half  cups 
water,  five  tablespoons  coffee  boiled  in  five  cups 
water  ;  add  to  the  coffee  after  straining  one  and  one- 
half  cups  sugar,  then  the  gelatine,  then  strain  all  to- 
gether. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 

Scald  one  pint  new  milk,  add  by  degrees  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  sugar,  two  eggs  and  five  table- 
spoonsful    chocolate    rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  milk, 


30 

beat  well  for  a  moment  or  two,  place  over  the  fire  and 
heat  until  it  thickens  well,  stiring  constantly,  set  off, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  thin  dissolved  gelatine;  when 
cold  place  in  freezer,  when  it  begins  to  set  add  a 
quart  of  rich  cream,  half  of  it  well  whipped.  Flavor 
with  premium  vanilla. 

Fruit  Jelly. 

Soak  one-half  package  gelatine  two  hours  in  cold 
water,  pour  off  water,  and  dissolve  in  a  little  warm 
water;  bring  to  a  boil  one  pint  jar  of  fruit,  one  pint 
water,  one  cup  sugar  ;  add  the  gelatine,  cool  in  molds, 
serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Ice   Cream. 

Bring  one  quart  of  milk  to  boil,  mix  together  and 
stir  in  two  cups  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  flour  and  two 
eggs;  when  thoroughly  cooked  take  from  stove,  and 
when  cold  add  one  pint  or  more  cream  and  pinch  of 
salt.     Flavor  to  taste  and  freeze. 

Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  sweet  cream,  same  of  new  milk,  beat  thor- 
oughly together  with  a  pound  of  sugar,  add  four  eggs 
well  beaten.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  lemon  or  orange, 
as  preferred  ;  place  it  in  the  freezer  and  keep  con- 
stantly in  motion  while  freezing;  this  may  bemad e 
into  banana  ice  cream  by  soaking  sliced  bananas  on** 
hour  in  sugar,  and  adding  when  ice  cream  is  half 
frozen. 

Ice  Cream. 

Milk  six  quarts,  Oswego  corn  starch  half  pound  ; 
first  dissolve  the  starch  in  one  quart  of  the  milk, 
then  mix  all  together  and  let  it  simmer  a  little,  do 
not  leave  it  boil ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  suit  your 
taste. 

Lemon  Ice. 

One  quart  water  and  one  tablespoon  corn  starch  ; 
boil  till  taste  of  starch  is  gone,  add  juice  and  rind  of 
two  large  lemons,  sweeten  to  taste,  cool,  strain 
through  sieve  and  freeze. 


31 

Lemon  Jelly. 

Soak  one  package  of  gelatine  in  one  cup  cold  water 
one  and  one-half  hours,  then  add  juice  of  six  lemons, 
two  pounds  granulated  sugar  and  one  and  one-half 
pints  boiling  water;  mix  all,  strain,  cool  in  molds. 

Lemon  Milk  Sherbet. 

Stir  well  together  juice  of  two  large  lemons,  one 
pint  sugar  and  two  teaspoons  lemon  extract ;  add  one 
quart  milk  and  one  pint  cream.     Freeze  immediately. 

Orange  Marmalade. 

Peel  and  cut  the  oranges  without  removing  the  in- 
ner skin ;  cut  the  peel  in  shreds ;  cover  orange  and 
peel  with  water,  stand  thirty-six  hours;  boil  in  same 
water  till  tender,  add  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pounds 
to  one  pound  of  fruit,  and  boil  till  syrup  slightly 
thickens. 

Pine  Apple  Sherbet. 

Soak  one  tablespoon  gelatine  fifteen  minutes  in  one 
cup  cold  water,  add  one  cup  boiling  water;  strain  and 
pour  this  upon  one-half  can  grated  pineapple,  one 
and  one-half  cups  sugar  and  juice  of  one  lemon ; 
freeze.  For  strawberry  sherbet,  instead  of  pineapple, 
use  one  quart  mashed  strawberries,  sprinkled  with 
one  pint  sugar,  theu  add  juice  of  one  lemon  and 
freeze,  as  above. 

Roman  Punch. 

Put  in  saucepan  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
with  three  pints  of  water,  boil  ten  minutes,  then  put 
aside  to  cool ;  when  cold  put  in  freezer  and  when 
nearly  frozen  put  in  a  gill  of  rum  and  the  juice  of  four 
lemons. 

Snow  Custard. 

Soak  one-half  package  gelatine  one  hour  in  one  cup 
cold  water,  add  one  pint  boiling  water,  stirring  until 
dissolved,  add  one  and  one-third  cups  sugar  and  juice 
of  one  lemon  ;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  very  stiff, 
and  when   gelatine  is   cold  whip   it   into  the  eggs,  a 


32 

spoonful  at  a  time,  whipping  steadily  and  evenly 
from  one-half  an  hour  to  an  hour;  when  all  is  stiff, 
set  in  cold  place  in  mold  ;  in  four  or  five  hours  turn 
this  meringue  into  a  glass  dish,  pouring  around  the 
top  a  custard  made  of  one  and  one-half  pints  milk, 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  two-thirds  cup  sugar  and  vanilla 
flavoring. 

Spanish  Cream. 

Thoroughly  dissolve  one  cup  powdered  sugar  in  one 
pint  whipped  cream,  add  to  this  one  heaping  teaspoon 
gelatine,  dissolved  in  hot  water  and  cooked  a  little, 
and  one  teaspoon  vanilla  ;    keep  it  cool. 

Velvet  Cream. 

One  pint  milk  and  one-half  box  gelatine,  brought  to 
boil,  add  one  pint  milk,  and  while  boiling,  one  cup 
sugar,  yolks  three  eggs,  then  whites  of  three  eggs, 
flavor  to  taste,  cool  in  molds. 


EGGS  AND  MEATS. 


Angels  on  Horseback. 

Cut  bacon  in  wafer-like  slices  and  in  each  slice  wrap 
an  oyster  and  pin  up  the  edges  with  a  wood  skewer, 
when  as  many  as  are  desired  are  wrapped,  dip  them 
in  a  batter  of  cracker  dust,  eggs  and  milk  and  fry 
them  in  hot  lard. 

Baked  Eggs. 

Take  as  many  eggs  as  desired,  separate  carefully 
yolks  from  whites,  add  a  little  salt  to  whites  and  beat 
stiff;  drop  on  buttered  plates  a  large  spoonful  of 
whites,  one  for  each  yolk,  slip  a  yolk  in  center  of  each, 
put  a  bit  of  butter  on  each,  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake 
to  a  nice  brown  in  a  few  minutes. 


33 

Beefsteak  and  Onions. 

Place  a  slice  of  beef  off  the  round  cut  very  thick, 
and  the  size  of  pan,  in  a  deep  pan,  well  salted  and  pep- 
pered, place  on  top  thick  layer  sliced  onions ;  season 
high,  cover  close,  bake  in  slow  oven  three  or  four 
hours. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Joint  and  boil  one  large  or  two  small  chickens  in 
salted  water,  enough  to  cover  them,  and  simmer 
slowly  for  half  an  hour;  line  a  deep  dish  with  raised 
crust,  place  the  chicken  in  layers  with  thin  pieces  of 
salt  pork  previously  boiled,  and  then  slices  of  potatoes 
if  desired  ;  add  butter  size  of  goose  egg,  cut  in  bits ; 
add  some  of  the  liquor  in  which  chicken  was  boiled  ; 
salt  and  pepper  each  layer,  dredge  in  a  little  flour, 
coverall  with  a  thick  crust,  leave  open  at  top;  bake 
an  hour  in  hot  oven. 

Fried  Tomatoes. 
Season   one   cup   flour  with    salt  and    pepper;   cut 
solid    tomatoes  in  half-inch  slices,  dip  in  flour,  fry  in 
lard  and  butter,  turn  when  brown. 

Frizzled  Ham. 
One  cup  cold  chopped  boiled  ham,  eight  eggs,  but- 
ter size  of    egg;  put  butter  in    frying  pan,  add   ham 
well  seasoned,  break   in    the    eggs,     stir    well    until 
cooked  ;  serve  with  buttered  toast. 

Marguerite  Eggs. 
Boil  eggs  hard,  remove  shells,  cut  eggs  in  two,  re- 
move yolks  and  mix  them  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little 
dry  mustard,  and  butter  if  desired,  some  prefer 
chicken,  ham  or  tongue  chopped  fine ;  fill  the  cavities 
in  the  whites  and  put  the  halves  together  again. 
For  picnics  wrap  in  tissue  paper  to  keep  them  gether. 

Mock  Duck. 
Take  one  slice  round  steak,  salt  and   pepper  both 
sides,  cover  with  a  dressing  of   bread   crumbs;    roll 
up  and  sew  or  tie  together,  and  bake  about  an  hour. 
3 


34 

Omelet. 

Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one- 
half  pint  milk,  four  teaspoons  corn  starch,  scant  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  add  last  the  Whites 
beaten  stiff  ;  cook  in  butter  over  moderate  heat,  cover 
pan,  and  when  well  set,  fold  the  omelet  and  serve. 

Omelet  with  Chopped  Ham. 

Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  add  to 
the  yolks  seven  tablespoons  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  stir 
in  the  whites  ;  melt  butter  size  of  a  butternut  in  fry- 
ing pan ;  pour  in  mixture,  cook  slowly ;  when  half 
done  place  in  oven,  cook  five  minutes  with  slow  fire, 
then  cover  with  a  layer  of  chopped  ham,  double  the 
layer  half  over  and  serve. 

Sauces. 

Take  butter  size  of  egg,  melt  and  add  to  it  one  table- 
spoon flour,  seasoning  if  desired,  and  one  cup  of  boil- 
ing water;  boil  till  thick.  For  white  sauce  add  milk 
instead  of  water.  For  caper  sauce  add  capers.  For 
pickle  sauce  add  one  or  more  chopped  pickles.  For 
onion  sauce  add  chopped,  boiled  onions.  For  oyster 
sauce  add  oysters  which  have  been  cooked  in  their 
own  liquor.  For  mint  sauce  take  one  half  cup  vine- 
gar, one  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  one  or  more 
tablespoons  finely  chopped  mint. 

Pot  Pie— Chicken,  Veal  or  Lamb. 

Boil  the  meat  till  tender,  saason  with  salt  and  pep- 
per ;  then  take  one  cup  milk,  two  eggs,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  one-halt  tea- 
spoon soda,  one  tablespoon  lard  ;  mix  quite  firm  ;  di- 
vide in  four  loaves  ;  place  on  meat  separately  and  boil 
twenty  minutes;  remove  dumplings  and  meat  ami 
thicken  gravy. 

Roast  Beep,  with  Yorkshire  Pudding. 

Place  a  piece  of  beef  to  roast  on  a  grating  or  sticks 
of  wood  laid  across  a  dripping  pan;  three  fourths  of 
an  hour  before  it  is  done,  mix  the  following  pudding 


35 

and  pour  into  the  pan :  one  pint  milk,  four  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  two  cups  flour, 
one  teaspoon  salt ;  do  not  mix  batter  too  stiff :  con- 
tinue to  roast  beef,  the  dripping  falling  upon  the  bat- 
ter ;  if  there  is  too  much  fat  in  pan  when  pudding  is 
to  be  poured  in  drain  it  off,  leaving  enough  to  keep 
the  pudding  from  sticking;  it  should  be  yellow  brown 
when  done.  When  all  is  done,  cut  the  pudding  in 
squares  and  serve  on  separate  platter. 

Sur  Le  Plat. 

Six  eggs,  one  tablespoon  butter;  melt  butter  in 
shallow  dish,  break  eggs  carefully  into  dish,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  whites 
are  well  set:  serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were 
baked. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  uncooked  veal  and  one 
pound  salt  pork  chopped  together,  very  fine,  three 
soda  crackers  rolled,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  salt, 
one  teaspoon  pepper,  butter  size  of  egg,  thoroughly 
mix  all  in  a  large  bowl,  with  the  hand.,  cover  with 
bread  crumbs,  put  in  a  dripping  pan,  add  a  little 
water,  bake  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Veal  Cake  (a  Dish  for  a  Picnic). 

A  few  slices  of  cold  roast  veal,  a  few  slices  of  cold 
ham,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  two  tabJespoonsful  of 
minced  parsley,  a  little  pepper,  good  gravy,  cut  off 
all  the  brown  outside  from  the  veal,  and  cut  the  eggs 
into  thin  slices,  procure  a  pretty  mold,  lay  veal,  ham, 
eggs  and  parsley  in  layers,  with  a  little  pepper  be- 
tween each,  and  when  the  mold  is  full  get  some  strong 
stock  and  fill  up  the  shape,  bake  one-half  hour  and 
when  cold  turn  it  out. 


36 

ENTREES. 


Croquettes. 

Chicken— Mix  one  tablespoon  flour  with  three  of 
batter,  stir  this  into  onft  cup  boiling  cream  or  chicken 
stock,  add  one  pint  finely  chopped  chicken,  one  pint 
bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  one  teaspoon  onion  juice,  boil  two  minutes, 
add  two  eggs,  well  beaten ;  when  cool,  shape,  roll  in 
egg  and  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep 
lard. 

Fish — Take  cold  fish  chopped  fine,  one -third  as  much 
cold  mashed  potatoes  rubbed  to  a  cream  with  a  little 
butter,  a  little  white  sauce  made  from  butter  drawn 
in  milk  and  thickened  with  corn  starch  and  a  beaten 
egg ;  season  with  chopped  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  little  catsup.  Mix  all  together,  mold,  roll  and  fry 
as  above. 

Ham — One  cup  finely  chopped  cold  boiled  ham, 
one  of  mashed  potato,  one  egg,  pepper  to  taste,  mold, 
roll  and  fry  as  above. 

Lobster—  Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  and  one-half 
tablespoon  of  flour  until  it  bubbles,  add  a  scant  one 
half  cup  of  water  or  cream,  and  mix  into  this  while 
hot  one  can  or  a  two  pound  lobster,  chopped  fine, 
seasoned  to  taste,  and  one  egg,  well  beaten  ;  cool,  and 
proceed  as  above. 

Plain— Chop  fine  cold  meat  of  any  kind,  add  one- 
half  quantity  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  one  egg,  sea- 
son to  taste,  adding  onion,  if  desired ;  mold  and  pro- 
ceed as  above,  or  fry  in  buttered  spider. 

Potato — To  two  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes  add  one 
egg,  one  tablespoon  cream,  and  butter  size  of  walnut ; 
with  floured  hands  mold  in  cone  shaped  balls,  dip  in 
white  of  egg,  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  set  aside  tor 
an  hour  or  more.  Have  ready  a  kettle  two-thirds 
full  of  hot  fat,  part  suet,  place  three  or  four  cro- 
quettes on  wire  skillet,  cook  deep  in  the  fat  until  light 
brown,  drain  on  brown  paper,  and  serve  hot. 


37 

Veal,wit?i  Mushrooms— Coyer  two  slices  baker's  bread 
with  milk,  bring  to  boil,  and  when  soft  enough  mix 
this  with  three  cups  chopped  cold  veal  and  two  eggs ; 
season  well  and  mold  in  round  cakes  in  cracker 
crumbs,  with  hands;  strain  off  liquor  from  can  or 
mushrooms,  and  after  frying  the  croquettes  in  butter 
and  placing  on  the  outside  of  a  platter,  put  in  the 
mushrooms  and  dredging  with  flour,  fry  to  a  light 
brown  ;  when  done,  pour  in  the  liquor  and  any  of  the 
meat  gravy  you  may  have,  add  one  cup  cream,  sea- 
son, thicken  with  flour,  and  turn  all  inside  the  cro- 
quettes on  platter  and  serve. 

Green  Corn  Cakes. 

One  pint  raw  green  corn,  cut  rows  of  corn  in  mid- 
dle of  kernels,  and  scrape  corn  off  with  knife,  three 
tablespoons  milk,  one  cup  flour,  one-half  cup  melted 
butter,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon 
pepper.     Fry  as  pancakes.     The  milk  may  be  omitted. 

Lunch  Dish. 

Nearly  fill  a  pudding  dish  with  cold  boiled  macca- 
roni,  place  in  the  center  cold  roast  beef  or  steak 
chopped  very  fine  and  seasoned  carefully  with  salt, 
pepper  and  thyme,  and  if  desired,  a  little  liquor  from 
canned  tomatoes ;  pour  stock  or  gravy  over  beef  and 
maccaroni,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  over  which  pour 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter.      Bake  one-half  hour. 

Pressed  Turkey. 

Boil  a  small  turkey  in  as  little  water  as  possible, 
till  the  meat  drops  from  bones ;  pick  the  meat  into 
small  pieces,  mixing  light  and  dark  together,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  put  in  mold,  and  pour  over  it 
the  hot  strained  liquor  in  which  the  turkey  was  boiled  ; 
press  with  a  not  too  heavy  weight ;  set  in  a  cool  place 
to  harden.  Pressed  chicken  may  be  made  the  same 
way. 

Scalloped  Fish. 

Pick  into  fine  flakes  any  cold  fresh  fish,  removing 
dark  parts,  mix  with    equal   parts  bread  and  cracker 


38 

crumbs,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  a  little 
nutmeg,  and  a  very  little  juice  of  onion  ;  moisten  this 
mixture  well  with  gravy  made  of  butter,  flour  and  hot 
water;  put  into  baking  dish,  cover  with  dry  crumbs 
and  bits  of  butter  ;  bake  until  brown,  serve  very  hot. 

Sandwiches. 

Cheese — One  cup  grated  cheese,  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  made  mustard,  a  lit- 
tle pepper,  and  if  needed  a  little  salt ;  cut  bread  very 
thin,  butter  and  spread  betwaen  slices. 

Egg— Melt  a  little  butter  in  narrow  cake  tin,  break 
in  one  dozen  eggs,  salt  to  taste,  put  bits  of  butter  on 
top;  do  not  break  the  yolks,  bake  in  oven  till  done, 
when  cold  turn  out  and  shave  in  thin  slices  and  serve 
with  bread  as  above. 

Ham— Mix  one  cupful  chopped  cold  boiled  ham,  two 
chopped  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  teaspoon  made  must- 
ard, two  tablespoons  each  of  melted  butter  and  vine- 
gar, and  a  little  salt  and  pepper  ;  spread  as  above,  cut- 
ting the  sandwiches  in  triangles. 

Rolled— Cut  thin  slices  lengthwise  off  a  loaf  of  home- 
made bread,  butter  and  spread  with  chopped  meat, 
well  seasoned,  roll  tightly  as  in  roll  jelly  cake ;  cut  in 
slices. 

Sardine— Spread  the  bread  with  sardines,  bone  and 
skin  removed,  and  mixed  fine  with  a  fork,  in  lemon 
juice  enough  to  make  them  spread  easily. 

Toast. 

French— Dip  slices  of  stale  baker's  bread  in  two 
eggs  beaten  with  one-half  cup  milk  and  a  little  salt, 
and  place  on  a  platter  for  half  an  hour;  rub  the  bars 
of  toaster  with  butter,  and  toast  bread  till  light 
brown. 

German— Dip  slices  of  bread  in  two  eggs,  beaten 
with  one  cup  milk,  and  fry  in  lard  and  butter  till  light 
brown ;  serve  if  desired  with  currant  jelly. 

Hash— Place  cold  roast  beef  or  veal,  chopped  fine, 
in   a  pan  and  add  gravy  from  roast,  or  milk,  to  make 


39 

juicy ;  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour 
over  nicely  toasted  bread,  placed  on  a  buttered  plat- 
ter.    Serve  hot. 

Tomato  Hash. 

Place  in  a  baking  dish  alternate  layers  of  cold  roast 
beef  chopped  fine,  and  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes,  sea- 
son with  pepper,  salt,  butter  and  some  of  the  gravy 
from  the  roast,  or  water  to  moisten,  then  add  a  layer 
of  bread  crums,  and  so  on  till  dish  is  full,  having 
bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  on  top;  bake  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour. 

Veal  Turnover. 

Bring  two  tablespoons  butter  to  boil  in  a  frying 
pan;  mix  two  or  three  eggs,  about  four  tablespoons 
flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  one  cup  milk  to  a  good  bat- 
ter, and  pour  in  frying  pan.  Place  in  the  middle  as 
soon  as  it  begins  to  get  solid,  cold  roast  veal  minced 
fine  ;  fry  slowly  ;  watch  that  the  fat  does  not  burn  ; 
when  done  on  one  side  fold  the  edges  of  the  cake  over 
to  the  middle,  enclosing  the  meat,  turn  with  a  pan- 
cake turner;  when  both  sides  are  delicate  brown  slip 
it  off  on  a  hot  dish ;  pour  around  a  little  of  the  gravy. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

Place  in  small  saucepan  two  tablespoons  butter, 
one-fourth  pound  grated  cheese,  one  salt  spoon  salt, 
one  of  dry  mustard,  one  fourth  salt  spoon  pepper, 
and  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg  beaten  with  one -half  cup 
sweet  milk :  stir  these  over  the  fire  until  melted  then 
pour  on  toast  and  serve  hot. 


FISH. 


Baked  Salt  Codfish. 

To  a  large  cup  of  codfish  picked  fine,  add  two  cups 
mashed  potatoes,  two  cups   milk,    two   well   beaten 


40 

eggs:  season  with  pepper,  one-half  cup  butter,  thor- 
oughly mix  and  bake  one -half  hour. 

Broiled  Oysters. 

Wipe  large  oysters  dry,  roll  in  seasoned  cracker 
dust,  and  lay  on  buttered  broiler,  brown  on  both 
sides,  dip  in  melted  butter  and  serve. 

Broiled  Oysters. 

Drain  the  oysters  well  and  dry  them  with  a  napkin, 
have  ready  a  griddle  hot  and  well  buttered,  season  the 
oysters,  lay  them  on  the  griddle  and  brown  them  on 
both  sides,  serve  them  on  a  hot  plate  with  plenty  of 
butter. 

Baked  White  Fish. 

Fill  the  fish  with  a  stuffing  of  fine  bread  crumbs  and 
a  little  butter,  sew  up  the  fish,  sprinkle  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  dredge  with  flour  and  bake  one  hour, 
basting  often  and  serving  with  parsley  sauce  or  egg 
sauce. 

Clam  Chowder. 

Cut  one-half  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  in  quarter  inch 
dice,  put  in  shallow  pan  and  fry  till  crispy :  chop  fifty 
large  clams  fine,  saving  all  the  juice;  cut  one  quart 
onions  fine, and  two  quarts  potatoes  in  half  inch  dice  ; 
put  clam  juice, cooked  pork  and  fat  from  it  and  vegeta- 
bles in  one  gallon  water,  cook  slowly  till  vegetables  are 
tender, then  add  one  can  tomatoes  and  chopped  clams  ; 
grate  one  carrot  and  add  with  parsley,  celery  or  celery 
seed,  one-half  teaspoon  thyme  or  summer  savory,  sea- 
son to  taste  and  add  water  to  make  it  of  the  right 
strength ;  just  before  taking  from  stove  add  rolled 
crackers. 

Clam  Fritters. 

Cut  in  pieces  fifty  clams— twenty -five  if  large— and 
mix  in  light  batter,  made  of  three  well  beaten  eggs; 
one-half  pint  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda  and 
flour ;  drop  into  hot  lard  and  fry  quickly  turning  them 
twice.  Oysters,  apples  or  codfish  may  be  used  instead 
of  clams. 


41 

Clam  Soup. 

Twenty- five  clams  chopped,  add  two  quarts  and  a 
pint  of  cold  water,  boil  half  an  hour,  then  add  one 
pint  of  milk  and  one  onion  chopped  fine,  thicken  with 
butter  and  flour  rubbed  together ;  beat  three  eggs 
and  put  in  your  tureen  and  pour  the  soup  into  it 
while  boiling  hot,  stirring  briskly. 

Clam  Soup. 

Cut  in  two  fifty  small  clams,  add   one  pint    boiling 

water,  when  it    comes   to   boil   add    two  tablespoons 

flour,  mixed  with  water  or  milk ;  boil  till  it  thickens 

and   add   one   quart    milk  ;  bring   to  a  boil,  season  to 

taste,  serve  with  crackers. 
i 

Deviled  Clams. 

Heat  one-half  pint  milk,  when  nearly  boiling  add 
two  tablespoons  flour  blended  with  one  of  butter, 
cook  till  quite  thick,  remove  from  fire,  add  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  twenty-five  small  clams 
chopped  fine,  one  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper,  and  saltspoon  salt ;  stir  all  to- 
gether;  fill  the  clam  shells,  well  cleansed,  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  quick  oven  till 
brown. 

Fricasseed  Oysters. 

Boil  one  cup  butter,  add  one  quart  oysters  and 
bring  to  a  boil ;  take  out  oysters  and  add  to  butter, 
one  cup  milk,  thickened  with  one  teaspoon  flour  ;  re- 
turn oysters,  and  add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  bring  to  boil  and  pour  over  toasted 
bread. 

HOLLANDAISE   SAUCE   FOR  FlSH. 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  add  yolks  of  two  eggs 
well  beaten  and  juice  of  half  lemon,  pinch  of  salt  and 
a  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper ;  then  add  slowly  one- 
third  cup  boiling  water;  cook  in  double  boiler  till 
slightly  thick, 


42 

Oyster  Soup. 

Put  one  quart  solid  meats  with  scant  cup  water, 
add  pinch  of  salt,  cook  till  edges  of  oysters  crimp ; 
skim,  add  one  quart  milk,  bring  to  boil,  add  butter 
and  pepper  to  taste  ;  serve  with  crackers. 

Oyster  Omelet. 

Beat  six  eggs  until  light,  add  half  cupful  cream  or 
rich  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  pour  into  a  frying  pan. 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  drop  in  a  dozen 
large  oysters,  fry  a  light  brown,  double  over  and  send 
to  table  immediately. 

Oyster  Croquettes. 

Chop  the  oysters  and  measure  in  a  bowl  an  equal 
quantity  of  mashed  potatoes,  add  as  much  butter  as 
you  like,  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  your  taste,  moisten 
with  a  little  cream,  make  in  rolls  or  cakes,  dip  in  eggs 
and  then  in  fine  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  or  boil  in 
lard. 

Potted  Herring. 

Take  ten  pounds  well  cleaned,  fresh  herring,  place 
in  layers  in  an  earthen  jar,  sprinkling  the  layers 
with  six  teaspoons  salt,  one  ounce  each  of  whole  cloves, 
whole  pepper,  and  whole  allspice,  cover  with  vine- 
gar, and  cover  all  with  plate ;  put  in  a  moderate  oven 
and  bake  twelve  hours. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

Fill  a  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  rolled  crackers 
and  oysters,  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter;  fill  dish  nearly  full  with  milk  and  oyster 
juice,  covering  top  with  cracker  crumbs,  mixed  with 
one  egg  ;  bake  one-half  hour  in  good  oven. 

Salmon  in  Mold. 

Chop  one  can  of  salmon  fine,  then  rub  in  a  bowl 
with  back  of  a  silver  spoon,  adding  four  tablespoons 
butter,  not  too  hot,  till  it  is  a  smooth  paste;  thor- 
oughly beat  one-half  cup  fine  bread  crumbs  into  four 


43 

eggs,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  chopped  parsley 
and  mix  all  together,  put  in  mold  and  steam  one  hour. 
Sauce— One  cup  milk  and  liquor  from  salmon  ;  bring 
to  boil,  thicken  with  one  tablespoon  corn  starch,  and 
one  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  tomato  catsup, 
pinch  of  mace  and  cayenne  pepper,  add  egg  last,  very 
carefully,  boil  one  minute;  tur*n  salmon  from  mold, 
pour  over  it  the  sauce,  and  cut  in  slices. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  eight  soda  crackers  rolled  fine, 
seven  ounces  butter,  pint  of  milk,  put  in  layers 
sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper,  save  liquor  and  add 
with  milk;  just  before  putting  in  oven  put  rolled 
crackers  with  bits  of  butter  on  top  layer,  bake  three 
quarters  of  an  hour. 


MEDICAL  DEPARTMENT. 


A  Splendid  Eye  Water. 

Take  white  rose  water,  or,  in  case  it  cannot  be  had, 
red  rose  water,  and  a  little  native  camphor ;  white 
vitrol,  five  cents  worth  ;  pound  the  vitrol  in  a  mortar, 
then  pour  the  rose  water  over  it ;  shake  well  before 
using  ;  before  going  to  bed  bathe  the  eyes  in  this  water 
with  a  clean  linen  cloth  ;  it  will  also  clear  the  face  of 
freckles. 

A  Never-Failing  Cure  for  the  Dropsy. 

Put  into  a  new  earthen  pot  three  quarts  cider,  one 
gill  of  mustard  seed,  half  a  pint  scraped  horse-radish, 
and  three  pounds  rusted  iron,  cover  the  whole  up 
closely  that  none  of  the  strength  can  escape,  thus  let 
it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  after  which  you  may  drink 
of  it.  This  is  to  be  drank  to  quench  the  thirst  as  often 
as  the  patient  is  thirsty,  but  the  beverage  ought  to  be 
well  covered  again  every  time.  All  kinds  of  food  may 
be  taken,  excepting  milk,  tea  and  water. 


44 

A  Never-Failing  Cure  for  Whooping  Cough. 

Take  seven  nails  drawn  from  a  horse's  hoof,  do  not 
lay  them  down  nor  wash  them,  and  have  ready  one 
pint  of  new  milk,  put  the  nails  into  the  milk  and  put 
them  on  the  stove  until  the  nails  become  thoroughly 
heated,  then  when  it  becomes  cool  it  is  ready  for  use. 
In  most  cases  one  pint  generally  effects  a  cure. 

Asthma. 
A   muskrat  skin  worn   Over  the  lungs  with  the  fur 
side  next  to  the  body  will  bring  certain  relief. 

A  Cure  for  the  Colic  in  Children. 
If  a  child  has  the  colic  even  to  a  degree  that  it  can 
in  no  wise  be  quieted,  take  a  little  garden  garlic, 
pound  it  and  squeeze  out  the  juice  through  a  clean 
linen  rag.  Of  this  juice  mix  for  a  very  young  child 
one  drop  with  one  drop  of  spirits  or  rye  whiskey  and 
give  it  to  the  child  in  its  mother's  milk.  To  a  child 
of  three  months  old,  three  drops  of  each  may  be 
given  in  breast  milk  at  a  time. 

A  Remedy  to  Cure  the  Cough. 
Roast  an  onion,  rub  the  soles  of  the  feet  therewith, 
and  the  ailment  will  cease  ;  or  take  strong  brandy,  dip 
a   soft  cloth  therein,  and  wet  the  soles  of  the  feet 
mornings  and  evenings. 

Bronchitis. 
Powdered  borax  and  honey  mixed,  not  too  thick,  so 
that  it  can  be  applied  with  a  feather  in  the  throat. 

Blood  Stopping. 
For  an  injury,  either  caused  by  stabbing  or  cutting, 
an  approved  stopping  of  the  blood  is  to  let  thirty  or 
forty  drops  of  oil  of  turpentine  trickle  into  the  injury. 

Bleeding  Piles. 
One   ounce   each  of  alum  and  salt,  dissolve  in  scant 
pint  water,  get  a  six   ounce  syringe,  with  which  syr- 
inge   every   three   hours ;    continue    until    a   cure   is 
effected. 


45 

Burns. 

Half  pint  strong  cider  vinegar  and  five  cents  worth 
laudanum;  saturate  a  soft  piece  of  linen  with  the 
liquid  and  lay  it  on. 

Certain  Cure  for  Eruptions,  Pimples,  &c. 

Having  in  numberless  instances  seen  the  good  effects 
of  the  following  prescription  I  can  certify  to  its  perfect 
remedy:  Dilute  corrosive  sublimate  with  the  oil  of 
almonds,  apply  it  to  the  face  occasionally,  and  in  a  few 
days  a  cure  will  be  effected. 

Cure  for  the  Sting  of  a  Bee  or  Wasp. 

Mix  common  clay  with  water  to  about  the  consist- 
ency of  mad  ;  apply  at  once. 

Cold  on  the  Chest. 

A  flannel  dipped  in  boiling  water  and  sprinked  with 
turpentine,  laid  on  the  chest  as  quickly  as  possible 
will  relieve  the  most  severe  cold  or  hoarseness. 

Catarrh. 

Snuff  up  considerable  salt  and  water  from   the  hoi 
low  of    the  hand  every  morning ;  salt  and  water  used 
as  a  gargle  just   before  going  to  bed  strengthens  the 
throat  and  helps  to  prevent  bronchial  troubles.     It  is 
also  excellent  for  sore  throat. 

Cough  in  Horses. 

Give  half  gill  turpentine  fifteen  minutes  before  feed 
or  water. 

Cure  for  Cramp. 

Three- fourths  of  a  gill  of  cider  vinegar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper;  this  is  sufficient 
for  one  dose  ;  repeat  if  necessary. 

Cubeb  Berries  for  Catarrh. 

A  new  remedy  for  catarrh  is  crashed  cubeb  berries 
smoked   in  a   pipe,  emitting    the  smoke  through  the 


46 

nose,  after  a  few  trials  this  will  be  easy  to  do;  if  the 
nose  is  stopped  up  so  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to 
breathe,  one  pipe  full  will  make  the  head  as  clear  as  a 
bell.  For  sore  throat,  asthma  and  bronchitis  swallow- 
ing the  smoke  effects  immediate  reJief ;  it  is  the  best 
remedy  known  for  offensive  breath,  and  will  make 
the  most  foul  breath  pure  and  sweet.  Sufferers  from 
that  horrid  disease,  ulcerated  catarrh,  will  find  this 
remedy  unequaled,  and  a  month's  use  will  cure  the 
most  obstinate  case;  a  single  trial  will  convince  any 
one.  Eating  the  uncrushed  berries  is  also  good  for 
sore  throat  and  all  bronchial  complaints.  After  smok- 
ing do  not  expose  yourself  to  cold  air  for  at  least 
fifteen  minutes. 

Cure  for  Sprains  or  Backache. 
Take  fish  pickle,  warm  it.  and  bathe  frequently. 

Cure  for  Boils  or  Carbuncles. 
'I'ake  slippery  elm,  two  parts,  and  one  part  baking 
soda  ;  mix  with  cold  water. 

Cure  for  Carbuncles  and  Boils. 

Take  white  shaving  soap,  the  white  of  an  egg,  some 
honey,  bluestone,  flour,  of  equal  parts.     Mix  cold. 

Cure  for  Corns  and  Bunions. 

Take  a  slice  of  bacon,  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  sugar 
of  lead,  pulverized,  as  much  as  will  lay  on  a  dime, 
scrape  the  bacon  and  mix  the  sugar  of  lead  on  it ;  the 
bacon  should  be  put  on  a  rag,  then  tied  on  the  foot  to 
prevent  it  slipping  off. 

Cure  for  Poison. 

Take  yarrow  and  fry  it  in  lard,  strain  through  a 
coarse  cloth,  and  when  cold  apply  to  the  parts  affected. 

Certain  Cure  for  a  Cold. 

Seneca  snake  root,  ten  cents  worth ;  squills,  five 
cents ;   allecampaine   root,    five  cents ;  licorice  root, 


47 

five  cents,  and  one  quart  of  water.  Boil  it  down  to  a 
pint  and  strain,  then  add  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar. 
Dose,  one  tablespoonf ul  four  times  a  day.  Keep  in  a 
cool  place. 

Cure  for  Cancer. 

Take  a  piece  of  polk  root  and  an  onion  of  equal  size 
roasted  in  hot  ashes  and  then  dried  in  the  shade,  and 
when  thoroughly  dry  powder  them  and  mix  with  lard, 
then  add  as  much  red  precipitate  as  will  make  it  red 
—not  too  red.  Apply  a  plaster  in  the  morning  and 
leave  it  on  till  next  morning,  then  take  it  off  and  wash 
the  cancer  with  a  strong  tea  made  of  horse  dock.  If 
not  cured,  apply  again. 

Croup. 

Equal  parts  cider  vinegar  and  water  sweetened  with 
brown  sugar,  drink  slowly. 

Catarrh. 

One  egg,  one  tablespoonful  lime,  one  teaspoonful 
lard,  also  one  of  tar ;  burn  and  inhale  it  three  times 
daily. 

Colic. 

A  tablespoonful  of  castor  oil  in  a  cup  of  coffee  as 
hot  as  you  can  drink  it  will  usually  give  relief  in  from 
five  to  ten  minutes. 

Coughs  and  Colds. 

Black  radishes  grated  and  white  sugar,  a  pint  of 
the  grated  radish  and  a  cup  of  sugar,  pour  the  sugar 
over  the  grated  radish  and  let  it  dissolve,  then  strain 
it  and  drink  as  often  as  necessary,  as  it  will  break:  up 
the  most  violent  cold. 

Cure  for  the  Grip. 

Simply  asafoetida  given  in  four  grain  pills  four  times 
a  day,  one  pill  at  a  dose ;  no  one  need  be  sick  of  the 
grip  who  will  use  this  remedy,  as  it  breaKs  it  up  very 
quickly  and  cures  it. 


48 

Cure  for  the  Bloody  Flux. 

Five  cents  worth  whole  cinnamon  bark,  five  cents 
worth  cloves,  put  in  one  pint  water,  boil  it  down  to 
half  pint,  then  strain  and  sweeten  with  rock  candy. 

Cure  for  Asthma. 

One-half  peck  of  jirason  weed  leaves  dried,  and  three 
cents  worth  of  saltpetre,  dissolved  in  water  and 
sprinkled  over  it,  then,  after  it  has  become  dry  again, 
take  a  small  quantity  and  burn  it  and  inhale  it;  it  is 
said  to  be  highly  beneficial. 

Corn  Salve. 

One  ounce  of  gum  galbanum,  dissolved  in  two  ounces 
strong  vinegar,  by  a  gentle  heat,  then  add  tar,  half 
an  ounce ;  diachylon  plaster,  two  drachms ;  verdigris 
and  sal  ammonia,  of  each  one  scruple ;  make  into  a 
plaster.  Directions  for  corns  :  bathe  the  feet  well  in 
hot  water,  after  which  put  on  a  plaster  about  every 
twelve  hours  until  a  cure  is  effected. 

Cure  for  Rheumatism. 

Take  one  tablespoonful  fish  oil  three  times  a  day, 
but  use  no  intoxicating  drinks. 

Cure  for  Tramping  on  a  Nail. 
Take  a  red  beet  and  bruise  it,  then  tie  on  the  wound. 

Cure  for  Sores. 

Take  equal  parts  of  lard  and  flour,  mix  cold  ;  it  will 
heal  almost  any  sore. 

To  prevent  bruises  from  getting  black,  take  the 
common  baking  soda  and  dissolve  it  in  water,  then 
moisten  a  soft  rag  with  it  and  Jay  it  on  the  bruise 

Cure  for  Felon  and  Catarrh  in  the  Hand. 

Take  fourteen  old  copper  pennies  and  two  pints  of 
cider  vinegar  (have   your  vinegar  right  warm),  then 


49 

take  seven  of  the  pennies  and  heat  them  through,  and 
drop  them  into  the  one  pint,  and  put  your  hand  in  as 
hot  as  you  can  bear  it,  and  leave  it  in  until  it  becomes 
cool;  then  have  the  other  pint  ready  with  the  other 
seven  pennies,  and  proceed  in  the  same  way  until  your 
hand  is  all  wrinkled  or  shriveled  ;  it  generally  effects 
a  cure.  The  oil  following  is  used  for  healing  and  mak- 
ing the  wound  solid  and  sound. 

Cure  for  Diarrhoea. 

Take  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  then  add  as  much 
white  sugar  as  will  make  a  syrup.  To  be  taken  as 
often  as  convenient. 

Cure  for  Rheumatism. 

Take  fifteen  cents  worth  of  sweet  oil  and  five  cents 
worth  of  saltpetre ;  mix,  then  let  stand  in  a  warm 
place.  Twenty-four  hours  before  using  shake  well 
and  rub  briskly. 

Cure  for  White  Swelling. 

Take  a  quarter  pound  red  lead,  half  gill  spirits  tur- 
pentine, one  ounce  camphor,  one  Dint  flaxseed  oil ; 
put  all  in  a  new  earthen  crock  and  boil  slow.  Apply 
twice  a  day. 

Cure  for  Fever  and  Ague. 

Take  saltpetre,  a  small  lump  the  size  of  a  cherry 
seed,  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cider  vinegar  every  morn- 
ing before  eating  for  two  weeks,  then  omit  one  week, 
then  commence  and  take  same  way  again  for  one  week 
more. 

Cure  for  Carbuncles  and  Felons. 

Wet  a  cloth  with  tincture  lobelia  and  keep  it  on 
moistened  all  the  time ;  it  is  sure  to  bring  relief. 

Cure  for  Scrofula  or  Sore  Head. 

Take   five   cents  worth   sal  soda,  divide  into  three 
equal  parts,  take  one  part  and  put  it  into  a  half  pint 
4 


50 

of  good  whiskey  and  half  pint  rain  water.  Dose,  one 
teaspoonful  three  times  a  day;  the  last  spoonful  to  be 
taken  on  going  to  bed. 

Cure  for  Rheumatism. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  saltpetre  in  a  pint  of  New  England 
rum  ;  after  it  is  dissolved  take  out  half  a  gill  to  take  in- 
wardly ;  half  teaspoonful  to  be  taken  three  times  a 
day ;  after  you  have  taken  the  half  gill,  then  add  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  water;  bathe  the  parts  affected 
three  or  four  times  a  day,  and  wrap  with  red  flannel. 

Cure  for  Piles. 

Take  the  gum,  or  pitch,  of  white  pine  and  make 
into  pills  the  size  of  a  pea ,  beginning  with  one  and 
taking  one  more  every  day,  until  nine  are  taken,  then 
take  one  less  each  day  again  until  you  come  down  to 
one  again. 

Cure  for  a  Sore  Mouth. 

Take  finely  powdered  brimstone  and  rub  your  mouth 
with  it. 

For  Cough  or  Lung  Diseases. 

One  tablespoontul  of  good  brandy  and  two  of  loaf 
sugar  in  a  cupful  of  milk  fresh  from  the  cow  every 
morning. 

Cholera  Remedy. 

Tincture  of  rhubarb,  tincture  of  camphor,  tincture 
of  opium,  equal  parts.  Dose  for  an  adult,  teaspoonful 
every  hour  until  the  pain  subsides. 

Certain  Cure  for  Dropsy. 

Scraped  horseradish,  one  handful;  parsley  roots 
and  tops,  two  handsful ;  ground  mustard,  two  table- 
spoonsful;  squills,  half  ounce;  juniper  berries,  one 
ounce  ;  good  cider,  one  gallon.  Put  the  whole  together 
in  a  new  earthen  vessel  in  a  warm  place  for  twenty  - 
four  hours.  Then  strain  for  use.  Dose  a  wine  glass- 
full  three  times  a  day.  All  spirituous  liquors  are 
strictly  forbidden. 


51 

Cure  for  Piles. 

Pulverized  rosin  mixed  with  lard,  or  you  can  omit 
the  lard. 

Cure  for  Dyspepsia. 

Take  seven  or  eight  grains  of  whole  pepper  three 
times  a  day,  before  each  meal. 

Cure  for  Malarial  Fever. 

Take  boneset  tea,  it  oftentimes  effects  a  speedy  cure. 

Cure  for  Sore  Eyes. 

Cider  vinegar  and  salt.     Do  not  take  too  much  salt. 

Cure  for  Hysterics. 

Take  the  head  of  a  pike  that  is  caught  in  March, 
and  pour  hot  water  on  it,  and  give  the  patient  to 
drink. 

Cure  for  Lung  Fever  in  Horses, 

Take  sassafras  root,  burdock  root,  mullin  root,  and 
spice  wood  bushes,  equal  parts,  and  boil  together. 
Give  it  to  them  to  drink. 

Cure  for  Yellow  Water. 

Take  one  ounce  copperas,  one  ounce  alum,  two 
ounces  saltpetre,  four  ounces  ginger,  two  ounces  rosin, 
one  ounce  camphor,  pulverized,  then  mix.  Dose,  one 
tablespoonful  twice  a  day  for  three  days,  give  water 
two  hours  after  the  powder. 

Cure  for  Heaves  in  Horses. 

Assafcetida,  saltpetre,  camphor,  alum,  each  two 
ounces;  garlic,  a  handful,  whiskey,  two  quarts;  put 
in  a  jug  and  let  it  stand  about  ten  days ;  shake  it  fre- 
quently.    Give  a  horse  a  gill  three  times  a  day. 

Cure  for  Staggers. 

When  a  horse  has  the  staggers,  take  the  whites  of 
several  eggs,  one  quart  of  sweet  oil,  mix  and  pour  it, 
before  feeding,  into  the  horse's  throat.     Probatum. 


52 

ColiC. 

A  hot  towel  Jaid  on  the  stomach  acts  like  magic  in 
case  of  colic,  and  there  is  nothing  that  so  promptly 
cuts  short  a  congestion  of  the  lungs,  sore  throat  or 
rheumatism  as  hot  water  when  applied  promptly  and 
thoroughly. 

Constipation. 

Hot  water  taken  freely  half  an  hour  before  bed  time 
is  the  best  cathartic  possible  in  case  of  constipation, 
while  it  has  a  most  soothing  effect  upon  the  stomach 
and  bowels.  This  treatment  continued  a  few  months 
with  proper  attention  to  diet  will  cure  any  curable 
case  of  dyspepsia.  Headache  almost  always  yields  to 
the  simultaneous  application  of  hot  water  to  the  feet 
and  back  of  the  neck. 

Croup. 

A  strip  of  flannel  or  napkin  folded  lengthwise  and 
dipped  in  hot  water  and  wrung  out  and  then  applied 
around  the  neck  of  a  child  that  has  the  croup  will 
bring  relief  in  ten  minutes. 

Cure  for  Lock -Jaw. 

Take  rye  chop  and  lard,  make  a  poutice,  and  apply 
warm  until  a  cure  is  effected. 

Cure  for  Bronchitis. 

Garlic,  two  ounces;  isop  weed,  two  ounces;  hore- 
hound,  two  ounces ;  white  sugar,  two  pounds  ;  water, 
two  quarts  ;  boil  it  down  to  one  q  uart  in  a  new  earthen 
vessel,  then  strain  and  bottle.  Dose,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  three  times  a  day,  or  more  if  necessary,  keep  on 
until  cured. 

Cure  for  Dyspepsia. 

Good  rye  whiskey,  the  best  that  can  be  obtained, 
take  one  swallow  three  times  a  day  after  meals. 

Complexion  Pomatum. 

One  pound  mutton  grease,  four  ounces  oxide  of  bis- 
muth, two  ounces  powdered  French  chalk,  mix. 


53 

Cure  for  Tape  Worms,  or  Seat  Worms. 

One  ounce  pomegranate  root  bark,  put  in  a  pint  of 
water,  boil  it  down  to  half  pint,  strain,  then  take 
half  this  portion  of  tea  before  supper,  eat  light  sup- 
per, and  on  going  to  bed  take  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoonsful  of  castor  oil ;  if  that  does  not  bring  it  take 
the  remaining  portion  of  the  tea  two  hours  before 
breakfast.  For  children  a  half  cup  of  tea  not  too 
strong,  before  breakfast,  then  in  fifteen  after  give 
one  teaspoonful  oil ;  if  no  worms  pass  give  more  in  a 
day. 

Chronic  Diarrhoea. 

Eight  ounces  spirits  wine,  one  and  a  half  ounces  pul- 
verized charcoal,  three  drops  of  oil  of  mint.  Dose, 
teaspoonful  every  two  hours  in  tablespoonful  water. 

Cure  for  Felon. 
Take  slacked  lime  and  soft  soap,  mix  and  tie  it  on. 

Cure  for  Dropsy. 

Make  a  strong  beer  of  Spanish  needles  and  drink  it. 

Cure  for  Bunions. 

Make  a  salve  of  soft  soap  and  turpentine,  equal 
parts,  boil  it  a  short  time  with  care. 

Cure  for  Malaria. 

Take  five  cents  worth  of  barberry  root,  put  in  a 
pint  of  rye  whiskey.  Dose,  one  tablespoonful  three 
times  a  day. 

Cure  for  Hiccoughs. 

A  few  drops  nitrate  of  amyl  inhaled  from  a  hand- 
kerchief. 

Cure  for  Dysentery. 

In  the  first  place,  take  one  teaspoonful  fine  charcoal, 
then  take  soot  out  of  a  chimney,  and  a  small  pinch 
of  whole  cloves,  and  scald.  After  it  is  sufficienty  cool, 
strain,  then  drink. 


54 

Cure  for  Lock-Jaw. 

Soft  soap  and  chalk,  equal  parts.  Mix  to  a  batter, 
then  apply. 

Cure  for  Malarial  Fever. 

Harlem  oil,  twenty-five  drops,  morning  and  evening 
until  cured. 

Cure  for  Eczema  or  Scald  Head. 

Wash  with  bran  water,  then  give  hop  tea  to  drink. 

Cure  for  Corns  and  Bunions. 

Carbolic  acid  applied  morning  and  evening,  and  on 
each  application  take  off  the  loose  skin  and  apply 
again  until  cured. 

Cure  for  White  Swelling. 

Peppermint,  blackroot,  yarrow,  fry  in  mutton  tal- 
low and  strain,  then  apply  to  the  afflicted  parts. 

Cure  for  Croup. 

Elder  blossom,  one  handful ;  flax  seed,  five  cents 
worth  ;  scald,  then  sweeten  with  dark  brown  sugar ; 
drink  as  often  as  necessary. 

Cure  for  Frozen  Hands  or  Feet. 

When  feet  are  frozen  or  a  person  has  other  frozen 
limbs,  let  them  mix  turpentine  with  salt  until  it  be- 
comes a  salve;  this  apply  twice  per  day,  regular,  for 
several  days  in  succession,  to  the  frozen  parts.  It  is 
an  efficacious  remedy. 

Chicken  Cholera. 

Mr.  J.  Davis,  in  the  Rural  World,  an  experienced 
breeder,  says  that  kerosene  oil  is  a  cure  for  this  dis- 
ease. It  maybe  administered  in  various  ways,  so  that 
the  chicken  suffering  with  this  disease  eats  of  the  food 
mixed  with  a  plentiful  quantity  of  the  above  oil.  The 
writer  positively  asserts  that  it  is  the  most  efficacious 
remedy  he  has  ever  applied    and  vouches  for  its  in- 


55 

fallibility  in  effecting  a  speedy  cure  of  this  ravaging 
disease.  This  remedy  being  so  simple,  and  within  the 
ready  reach  of  all  our  farmers  and  poultry  breeders, 
will  be  of  no  little  importance  to  be  in  possession  of, 
and  is  well  worthy  a  trial— for  only  by  trying  different 
remedies  are  we  enabled  to  continually  discover  new 
and  more  valuable  cures  for  the  various  diseases  that 
our  poultry  is  subject  to.  Oftentimes  the  most  simple 
remedies  have  been  found  the  most  efficient  in  eradi- 
cating numerous  diseases. 

Cure  for  White  Swelling. 
White  oak  asnes,  wheat  flour,  and  honey  ;  mix  to  a 
salve  and  apply. 

Cure  for  Colic. 
Three  tablespoonsful  of  salt  in  a  cup  of  warm  water 
in  case  of  cramp  or  colic. 

Cure  for  Cohlera. 
Have  ready  six  quarts  good  rye  whiskey  in  case  of 
an  emergency  ;  take  eight  bricks  and  heat  them  well ; 
take  four  and  lay  them  iu  a  bath  tub  or  large  iron 
kettle,  sit  over  them  on  a  chair  laid  sideways,  well 
covered  with  blankets,  pour  over  them  slowly,  while 
hot,  good  rye  whiskey;  when  the  first  bricks  are  cold 
take  the  other  four  and  repeat  with  the  whiskey  same 
as  first  until  well  sweated,  then  drink  a  tumbler  of 
the  liquor  and  go  to  bed,  covering  well  with  blankets. 

Cure  for  Piles. 
Take   a  medium  sized  cup  half  full  of  mola&ses  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  pulverized  rosin  ;  mix  well.    Dose, 
one  teaspoonful  twice  a  day. 

Cure  for  Croup. 
Take  six  or  more  drops  headlight  oil  in  brown  sugar 
until  relieved. 

Cure  for  Dyspepsia  or  {Soreness  of  the  Breast. 
Take  tansy  and  tame  balsam,  equal  parts,  and  make 
tea ;  drink  it  warm  the  first  day  and  after  that  drink 
it  cold. 


56 

Diphtheria. 

At  the  first  symptoms  of  diphtheria  take  from  a  tea- 
spoonful  to  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  coal  oil ;  for  a  child  a 
teaspoonful;  if  no  relief  in  five  minutes  repeat  the 
dose.  This  is  highly  recommended  by  parties  who 
have  used  it  when  all  else  have  failed. 

Diphtheria. 

At  the  first  indications  of  diphtheria  take  some  kind 
of  a  small  vessel  with  a  handle  and  pour  into  it  a 
quantity  of  tar  and  turpentine,  equal  parts ;  then 
hold  the  vessel  over  the  fire  so  as  to  fill  the  room  with 
the  fumes ;  the  patient  on  inhaling  the  fumes  will 
cough  and  spit  out  the  membraneous  matter,  and 
diphtheria  will  pass  off ;  the  fumes  of  tar  and  turpen- 
tine loosen  the  matter  in  the  throat  and  thus  afford 
the  relief  that  has  baffled  the  skill  of  physicians. 

Diphtheria. 

One  gill  whiskey  with  half  teaspoonful  red  pepper, 
used  as  a  gargle ;  used  only  for  adults,  as  it  is  too 
strong  for  children. 

Dyspepsia. 

Peach  kernels,  three  taken  as  a  dose  after  each  meal 
until  cured. 

Dyspepsia. 

A  fresh  raw  egg  mixed  with  a  little  sugar  to  taste 
every  morning  before  breakfast  will  entirely  relieve 
dvspepsia. 

Diphtheria. 

A  perfectly  ripe  pineapple  taken  and  the  juice 
squeezed  out  and  given  to  the  patient  to  swallow; 
the  juice  is  of  so  corrosive  a  nature  that  it  will  cut 
out  all  diphtheretic  mucus. 

Dropsy. 

Fifteen  drops  extract  dandelion  in  a  spoonful  water 
three  times  a  day;  also  get  ten  cents" worth  broom 
top,  make  tea  and  drink  frequently.  You  can  get  it 
at  your  druggist. 


57 

Dyspepsia  Bitters. 

Quiac,  two  ounces ,  cinnimon,  half  ounces,  ;  clovecf 
half  ounces  ;  salpetre,  one  drachm  ;  rhubarb,  pulver- 
ized, half  ounce  ;  orange  peel,  two  drachms;  rum,  one 
quart ;  boil  slow,  not  long.  Dose,  one  tablespoonful 
twice  a  day  in  muscat  wine. 

For  Burns. 

Take  the  common  baking  soda  and  rub  it  over  ;  this 
will  relieve  the  pain  almost  immediately. 

For  Diphtheria. 

Take  half  an  ounce  tincture  lobelia,  half  ounce  sul- 
phur, half  ounce  red  pepper,  half  ounce  alum,  half 
ounce  cream  tartar,  half  ounce  salt;  gargle  every 
half  hour.     For  a  child,  swab  it  out. 

For  Erysipelas. 

Bathe  the  part  afflicted  with  erysipelas  with  good 
rye  whiskey,  then  sprinkle  well  with  rye  cbop.  If 
one  application  does  not  effect  a  cure,  take  a  soft  cloth 
and  wipe  the  chop  off,  then  apply  again  as  before. 

For  Colds  and  Diarrhoea. 

Brandy,  three  tablespoonsful,  two  lumps  loaf  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  half  teacup  hot 
water;  drink  hot  as  possible. 

Fomentation^ 

Grum  myrrh,  four  ounces ;  gum  aloes,  four  ounces ; 
camphor,  two  ounces;  gum  shellac,  an  ounce  and  a 
half;  whiskey,  one  pint.  It  is  the  best  liniment  in  use 
for  healing,  and  also  for  cramps  and  colic ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  to  be  taken  as  a  dose  until  relieved. 

For  Erysipelas. 

Take  one  tablespoonful  of  copperas,  dissolve  in  soft 
water :  bathe  the  parts  attected. 


58 

For  Pains  or  Headache. 
Bathe  frequently  with  essence  of  peppermint, 

For  Diphtheria. 
Take  equal  parts  of  pulverized  sugar  and  powdered 
sulphur,mix  ;  then  take  as  much  as  will  lay  on  the  point 
of  a  table  knife,  and  put  it  back  in  the  throat  where 
it  is  affected,  every  hour  until  relieved. 

For  Burns  and  Sores. 
Take  a  piece  of  lime  as  large  as  a  good  sized  cocoa  > 
nut,  slack  it  in  water,  leaving  it  stand  one  day,  then 
skim  off  in  a  bottle  half  pint  of  the  liquid,  and  add 
half  pint  of  flaxseed  oil ;  mix  well.  It  is  good  for  man 
or  beast. 

For  Burns. 
Grease  with  lard,  then  apply  boiling  starch  all  over 
the  burnt  parts. 

For  Paralytic  Stroke. 
One  pint   best    brandy,  one  ounce  cayenne  pepper ; 
bathe  six    or   eight   hours ;  get  a  battery  and  take  a 
shock   four  times  a  day  until  you  are  cured ;   bathe 
frequently  after  taking  a  shock. 

For  Inward  Bleeding  Piles. 
Half  ounce  allecampaine  root,  fine  ;  half  ounce  black 
pepper,  fine ;  half   ounce   cream    tartar,  mix.     Dose, 
tablespoonful  three  times  a  day,  before  meals. 

For  Tetter. 
Rose  water,  two  ounces;  white  vitrol,  one  drachm; 
mix. 

For  Piles. 
Pulverize  burnt  cork  and  mix  with  lard,  and  apply  it 
two  or  three  times  a  day. 

For  Freckles. 
When  persons  have  freckles,  catch  the  dew  that  set- 
tles on  wheat,  mix  with   rose  water  and  oil  of  lilies ; 
with  this  water  wash  the  face,  it  drives  all  the  freckles 
away  and  gives  to  the  face  a  fair  tint 


59 

For  Sick  Stomach. 
In  many  cases  of  disordered  stomach,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  is  a  certain  cure.  In  the  violent  internal  ach- 
ing, termed  colic,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  pint 
of  cold  water ;  drink  it  and  go  to  bed.  It  is  one  of  the 
speediest  remedies  known.  The  same  will  revive  a 
person  who  seems  almost  dead  with  a  heavy  fall,  etc. 

For  Apoplexy. 
In  an  apoplectic  fit,  no  time  should  be  lost  in  pour- 
ing down  salt  and  water,  if  sufficient  sensibility  re- 
mains to  allow  of  swallowing ;  if  not,  the  head  must 
be  sponged  with  cold  water  until  the  sense  returns, 
when  salt  will  completely  restore  the  patient  from 
the  lethargy. 

For  Fits. 
In  a  fit,  the  feet  should  be  placed  in  warm  water, 
with  mustard  added,  and  the  legs  briskly  rubbed,  all 
bandages  removed  from  the  neck,  and  a  cool  apart- 
ment procured,  if  possible.  In  many  cases  of  severe 
bleeding  at  the  lungs,  and  when  other  remedies  failed, 
Dr.  Rush  found  that  two  teaspoonsful  of  salt  com- 
pletely stayed  the  blood. 

For  Bite  op  a  Mad  Dog. 
In   case   of  a  bite  from  a  mad  dog,  wash  the  part 
with  strong  brine  for  an  hour,  and  then  bind  on  some 
salt  with  a  rag. 

For  Toothache. 
In  toothache,  warm  salt  and  water  held  to  the  part, 
and  removed  two  or  three  times,  will  relieve  it  in 
most  cases.  If  the  gum  be  affected  wash  the  mouth 
with  brine.  If  the  teeth  be  covered  with  tartar,  wash 
them  twice  a  day  with  salt  and  water. 

For  Swollen  Feet  and  Pains  of  the  Skin. 
The  bark  of  elderberry  mixed  with  strong  salt  water 
should   be  used   as  a  wash  for  sore  feet  and  other  in- 
juries of  the  skin, 


60 

For  Swollen  Neck. 

In  swelled  neck  wash  the  parts  with  brine,  and  drinK 
it  also,  twice  a  day,  until  cured. 

For  Worms. 

Salt  will  expel  worms,  if  used  in  food  moderate  in  a 
degree,  and  it  aids  digestion,  but  salt  meat  is  injuri- 
ous, if  used  much. 

For  Headache  and  Neuralgic  Pains. 

Opodeldoc,  spirits  of  wine,  sal  ammoniac,  equal 
parts.     To  be  applied  as  any  other  lotion. 

For  Colds. 

Slice  down  a  few  onions  and  boil  them  in  a   pint  of 
new  milk,  stir  in  a  sprinkle  of  oatmeal  and  a  very  lit 
tie  salt ;  boil   until  the  onions  are  quite  tender,  then 
sup  rapidly  and  then  go  to  bed. 

For  a  Short  Winded  Horse. 

The  dust  of  the  curry  comb  mixed  in  his  feed  is 
found  to  be  very  efficacious. 

For  a  Stifle  Slipp'd  Horse. 

If  a  horse  is  stifle  slipp'd,  take  him  by  the  fetlock 
and  pull  his  leg  slowly  towards  the  front  leg  upwards 
within  a  foot  of  his  belly,  then  give  it  a  quick  jerk 
upwards  and  forward  against  the  belly ;  that  will 
throw  the  leg  in  place  again. 

For  Erysipelas. 

One  pint  cider  vinegar,  ten  cents  worth  flour  sul- 
phur; mix  and  apply. 

For  Toothache. 

The  worst  toothache  or  neuralgia  coming  from  the 
teeth  may  be  speedily  ended  by  the  application  of  a 
bit  of  clean  cotton  saturated  in  a  solution  of  ammonia 
to  the  defective  tooth. 


61 

For  Constipation. 

One  or  two  figs  eaten  hefore  breakfast  is  sufficient 
for  some,  and  they  are  especially  good  for  children, 
as  there  is  no  trouble  in  getting  them  to  take  them. 
A  spoonful  of  wheat  bran  in  a  glass  of  water  is  a  sim- 
ple remedy  and  quite  effective. 

For  Poison. 

Boil  sweet  milk,  dip  a  cloth  in,  lay  it  on  as  hot  as 
can  be  borne,  take  a  lump  of  lime  as  large  as  a  good 
sized  potato,  pour  water  on  it  after  the  lime  has  dis- 
solved, and  the  water  settled,  pour  off  the  water  and 
add  swt-et  oil  or  flax  seed  oil  until  it  thickens,  then 
grease  the  parts  affected. 

For  Earache. 

Roast  a  white  •  onion  in  an  oven  or  hot  ashes  and 
split  in  two,  tie  on  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  until  re- 
lieved. 

For  Diarrhoea. 

One  tablespoonful  ground  cloves  and  one  pint  boil- 
ing water,  sweeten  to  taste  and  drink  freely. 

For  Rheumatism. 

Two  drams  iodide  potash,  four  drams  bi-carbonate 
potash,  two  drams  tincture  henbane,  three  drams 
wine  colchicum,  six  drams  Rochelle  salts,  twelve 
ounces  boiled  water;  two  tablespoonsful  with  juice  of 
half  lemon  to  be  taken  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

For  Felon. 

Indian  turnip  size  of  a  hazlenut  grated  with  a  few 
drops  spirits  turpentine  dropped  in  it,  then  tied  on  it 
gives  almost  instant  relief. 

For  Lung  Disease. 

One  gill  horehound  tea  fresh  made,  strain  in  a  cup 
new  milk  and  drink  every  morning  until  relieved. 


62 

For  Rheumatism. 

Oil  of  wintergreen,  ten  drops  every  two  hours,  and 
one  tablespoonful  Rochelle  salts  every  two  or  three 
days. 

For  Bunions. 

Suet  and  soda,  equal  parts,  mix,  apply  until  a  cure 
is  effected. 

For  Felon  or  Catarrh. 

Take  a  small  piece  of  bread,  pour  on  it  some  seneca 
oil  and  apply  it  to  the  sore. 

For  Chicken  Cholera. 

Dissolve  one  tablespoonful  of  baking  soda  in  water ; 
pour  a  few  tablespoonsful  down  their  throats. 

For  Rickets. 

Take  cod  liver  oil  and  whiskey,  equal  parts  ;  rub  the 
patient  twice  every  day  until  cured. 

For  Chicken  Gapes. 

Put  them  in  a  tight  box  with  slacked  lime,  shaking 
the  box  well ;  it  is  a  certain  cure. 

For  Rheumatism. 

One  pint  strong  cider  vinegar,  five  cents  worth  salt- 
petre, dissolve,  then  bath  well  with  the  liquid  and 
wrap  with  red  flannel- 

For  Malarial  Fever. 

Golden  seal, five  cents  worth  ;  whole  cloves,  the  same, 
and  one  quart  gin.  Dose  one  tablespoonful  three 
times  a  day. 

For  Kidney  Disease. 

Take  the  juice  of  three  lemons  every  day  for  three 
days,  sweeten  it  and  take  it  as  one  dose,  then  take  the 
juice  of  two  lemons  three  days,  and  then  the  juice  of 
one  lemon  three  days,  then  omit  for  a  week  or  ten 
days ;  if  not  cured  repeat  again  as  before. 


63 

For  Corns. 
Take  cinnamon  oil  and  rub  them  frequently. 

For  Diphtheria. 

A  small  dose  of  chlorate  of  potash,  taken  at  night, 
acts  as  a  preventive  of  diphtheria. 

For  Pain  in  the  Side  and  Breast. 

Oil  of  juniper,  one  ounce;  turpentine,  one  ounce. 
Dose  for  an  adult,  fifteen  drops  three  times  a  day. 

For  Bunions. 

Make  a  poultice  of  ground  flax  seed  and  milk ;  keep 
it  on  till  cured. 

For  Distemper. 

Take  one  pint  of  foreshot  or  alcohol,  three  cents 
worth  of  assafoetida,  mix ;  dose,  one  tablespoonful 
three  time  a  day  for  three  days.  Also  drop  a  little 
sweet  oil  in  thier  ears.  This  remedy  is  certain  if  used 
in  time. 

For  Bots. 

Take  three  quarters  gill  turpentine  and  half  pint  of 
whiskey  together.  First  give  them  one  quart  of  sweet 
milk  and  one  quart  of  molasses  mixed  together,  and 
then  the  above  articles. 

For  Quinsy. 

One  teaspoonful  powdered  alum  and  as  much  red 
pepper  as  will  lay  on  a  dime.     Make  a  gargle  of  it. 

For  Piles. 

Take  sulphur  and  lard, equal  parts,  melt  and  strain 
them  ;  use  as  an  ointment. 

For  Heavy  Colds. 

Drink  as  much  cold  water  as  you  can  on  going  to 
bed,  then  cover  up  warm. 


64 

For  Headache  and  Rheumatism. 

Bi-carbonate  potash,  half  teaspoonful  in  four  table- 
sponsful  water  three  times  a  day  before  meals. 

For  Rheumatism,  Headache  and  Neuralgia. 

The  juice  of  one  lemon  and  half  teaspoonful  salt  well 
dissolved  and  taken  three  times  a  day  after  meals  for 
one  week ;  then  two  lemons  twice  a  day  for  one  week  ; 
then  one  lemon  a  day  for  a  week  ;  then  after  that  two 
lemons  a  week,  continuing  for  some  time,  will  almost 
invariably  cure  the  most  stubborn  cases. 

Face  Powder. 
One  pound  starch,  four  ounces  oxide  of  bismuth. 

Another  No.  2. 
French  chalk  finely  powdered. 

For  Baldness. 

One  pint  water,  half  ounce  pearl  ash,  one  gill  onion 
juice,  mix,  keep  it  in  a  bottle  corked;  rub  the  head 
night  and  morning  with  a  rough  towel  dipped  in  the 
mixture. 

For  Dandruff. 

A  thimbleful  of    powdered  borax,  dissolve  in  a  tea 
cupful  water,  first    brush    the   head  well   then  wet    a 
brush  and  apply  it  to  the  head.     Do  this  every  day  for 
a  week  and  then  twice  a  week  for  a  few  times  and  you 
will  effectually  remove  it. 

For  Felon. 

Chlorate  of  lime  made  into  a  paste  with  water  and 
tied  on  with  plenty  of  rags,  and  when  it  begins  to 
sting  dip  it  in  water  and  let  it  on  until  it  comes  to  a 
head. 

For  Cholera  and  Diarrhoea. 

Pour  ounces  spirits  camphor,  four  ounces  essence 
peppermint,  one  ounce  tincture  opium,  one  ounce 
capsicum,   half  ounce   syrup   of    ginger.      Dose,    for 


65 

cholera  one  tablespoonful  in  two  tablespoonsful  water  ; 
for  diarrhoea  one  teaspoonful  in  one  tablespoonful 
water,  if  necessary  repeat  the  dose. 

For  Asthma. 

One  teaspoonful  glycerine,  one  tablespoonful  best 
whiskey,  mix  as  one  dose. 

For  Tape  Worm  and  Small  "Worms. 

The  roots  and  leaves  of  plantain  made  into  a  strong 
tea  and  drank  is  very  efficacious. 

Gravel  in  Horses. 

White  rosin,  as  much  as  will  lie  on  a  ten  cent  piece, 
to  be  given  three  or  four  times  a  week  in  their  feed. 

Gravel,  or  Bright' s  Disease. 

Harlem  oil,  fifteen  drops  three  mornings  in  succes- 
sion, then  omit  three  mornings ;  then  take  twenty 
drops,  omitting  three  mornings  again ;  then  take 
thirty  drops,  always  to  be  taken  in  a  tablespoonful 
water.  If  a  cure  is  not  effected,  repeat  the  doses  over 
again,  same  as  before.  Four  ounces  Indian  hemp 
root,  white,  half  pint  gin,  one  spoonful  three  times  a 
day  after  meals  ;  this  is  to  be  used  while  taking  the 
Harlem  oil,  to  purify  the  blood.  In  very  bad  cases  of 
Bright' s  disease  take  ten  or  twelve  drops  Harlem  oil 
every  three  hours,  until  the  urine  becomes  clear,  then 
use  as  first  directed  until  cured. 

How  to  Treat  Poisonous  Bites. 
Here  are  directions  for  dealing  with  a  poisonous  bite 
of  any  kind  on  the  hand  or  foot,  or  limb  near  either. 
Put  a  ligature  above  it  to  prevent  a  return  flow  of 
blood,  then  scrape  the  wound  or  otherwise  keep  it 
open  so  that  the  blood  will  flow  freely.  This  prevents 
the  veins  from  carrying  the  poison  into  the  system  and 
at  the  same  time  the  free  flow  of  blood  tends  to  wash 
the  poison  out ;  it  is  a  general  rule  that  the  more 
freely  a  wound  bleeds  the  less  danger  there  is  of  poison 
being  absorbed. 
5 


66 

How  to  Keep  a  Horse   Healthy  and  his  Blood 
in  Order. 

Give  him  half  pound  English  salts  in  his  feed  occa- 
sionally. 

Hair  Ren  ewer. 

Cut  a  full  grown  onion,  rub  the  head  briskly  with 
it  every  morning  and  evening. 

How  to  Purify  Sweet  Oil. 

Take  as  much  shot  as  would  be  sufficient  for  two 
gun  loads,  put  them  into  a  bottle  of  sweet  oil.  It  will 
become  as  clear  as  water. 

How  to  Stop  Bleeding. 

If  a  person  bleeds  put  both  his  hands  into  cold  water; 
if  this  does  not  help  let  his  hands  and  arms  be  im- 
mersed in  water  up  to  elbow  and  shoulder  blade. 

Horse  Powder. 

Antimonium,  half  pound  ;  ginger,  half  pound,  cop- 
peras, half  pound  ;  rosin,  half  pound  ;  brimstone,  quar- 
ter pound  ;  saltpetre,  quarter  pound.  Dose,  one  table- 
spoonful  after  watering  in  the  evening,  to  be  given  in 
their  feed  three  evenings  in  succession,  and  then  to 
stop  for  three  evenings,  and  then  give  them  again  for 
three  evenings,  and  after  that  once  in  a  while. 

Ingrowing  Nails. 

By  simply  using  tin  foil,  such  as  is  used  in  wrapping 
chocolate,  tobacco,  etc. ,  introducing  a  single  or  dou- 
ble thickness  of  tin  foil  between  the  nail  and  toe  by 
the  aid  of  an  instrument  with  a  thin  blade.  The  tin 
foil  is  kept  in  place  by  wax,  which  is  molded  over 
the  parts. 

Indian  Salve. 

Dragon's  blood,  one-quarter  ounce;  olive  oil,  half 
ounce;  yellow  wax,  half  ounce;  Burgundy  pitch,  one 
ounce ;  gum  resin,  two  ounces ;  put  all  together  in  an 
iron  pan  and  dissolve  over  a  slow  fire ;  do  not  leave  it 


67 

boil ;  to  be  used  on  any  kind  of  sore.  It  is  an  elegant 
remedy  for  sprained  backs,  sore  breasts,  burns,  boils, 
neuralgia,  swellings,  mumps,  etc.  Spread  on  muslin, 
not  too  thick,  and  apply  it  warm. 

In  Cases  of  Fevers. 

Make  a  strong  lemonade  cold  and  drink  as  much  uf 
it  as  you  can,  it  will  soon  check  it. 

Jackson's  Itch  Ointment. 

Lard,  sulphur,  vevum  palm  oil  and  white  hellebore, 
equal  parts ;  mix. 

Lotion  for  Sunburn,  Freckles,  &c. 

One  drachm  muriate  of  ammonia,  one  pint  spring 
water,  two  drachms  lavender  water ;  apply  with  a 
sponge  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

Nerve  Ointment. 

Half  pint  neatsfoot  oil,  one  gill  brandy,  the  same 
amount  spirits  turpentine,  simmer  together  fifteen 
minutes.  Excellent  for  sprains,  swellings  and  rheu- 
matism. 

Nine  Oil. 

Oil  of  luniper.  oil  of  seneca,  oil  of  sassafras,  oil  of 
stone,  spike  oil,  British  oil,  Barbados  tar,  balsam 
sulphur,  each  one  ounce ;  turpentine,  four  ounces. 
This  oil  is  used  for  all  kinds  of  sores  or  sprains. 

Neuralgia. 

Make  a  small  muslin  bag,  fill  it  with  salt,  heat  it 
very  hot  and  lay  it  against  the  aching  place  ;  it  will 
prove  a  great  relief,  as  salt  retains  the  heat  a  long 
time. 

Neuralgia  or  Toothache. 

A  towel  folded  several  times  and  dipped  in  hot  water 
and  quickly  wrung  out  and  applied  over  the  tooth- 
ache or  neuralgia  will  generally  afford  prompt  relief. 


68 

Pearl  Water  for  the  Face. 

Half  pound  best  Windsor  soap  scraped  fine  into  half 
a  gallon  of  boiling  water,  stir  it  well  until  it  cools, 
add  one  pint  spirits  of  wine  and  hall  an  ounce  of  oil 
of  rosemary,  stir  well ;  this  is  a  good  cosmetic  and 
will  remove  freckles. 

Pennyroyal  and  Potash. 

If  mosquitoes  or  other  blood  suckers  infest  our  sleep- 
ing rooms  at  night,  we  uncork  a  bottle  of  the  oil  of 
pennyroyal,  and  these  animals  will  leave  in  great 
haste,  nor  will  they  return  so  long  as  the  air  in  the 
room  is  loaded  with  the  fumes  of  that  aromatic  herb. 
If  rats  enter  the  cellar,  a  little  powdered  potash 
thrown  in  their  holes  or  mixed  with  meal  and  scat- 
tered in  their  runaways,never  fails  to  drive  them  a  way- 
Cayenne  pepper  will  keep  the  buttery  and  storeroom 
free  from  ants  and  cockroaches.  If  a  mouse  makes 
an  entrance  into  any  part  of  your  dwellings,  saturate 
a  rag  with  cayenne,  in  solution,  and  stuff  it  into  the 
hole,  which  can  then  be  repaired  with  either  wood  or 
mortar.  No  rat  or  mouse  will  eat  that  rag  for  the 
purpose  of  opening  communicatioa  with  a  depot  of 
supplies. 

Prevention  of  Diphtheria. 

Drink  a  small  portion  of  lime  water  occasionally. 
Pearl  Water  for  the  Complexion. 

One  pound  castile  soap,  one  gallon  water,  dissolve, 
then  add  one  quart  alcohol,  two  drachms  each  of  oil 
of  rosemary  and  oil  of  lavender,  mix  well. 

Physic  for  a  Horse. 

Take  one  quart  warm  water,  and  make  a  strong  salt 
brine  and  give  it  to  him. 

Remedy  for  Burns. 

One  teacup  of  lard  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  stir 
together  until  thoroughly  mixed,  then  spread  on  a 
linen  rag  and  apply  ;  change  as  often  as  necessary. 


69 

Remedy  for  Fever  and  Ague. 

Peruvian  bark,  two  ounces ;  wild  cherry  treebark, 
one  ounce;  cinnamon,  one  drachm,  all  pulverized; 
capsicum,  one  teaspoonful ;  sulphur,  one  ounce;  port 
wine,  two  quarts.  Let  stand  a  day  or  two.  Always 
buy  the  Peruvian  bark  and  pulverize  it,  as  most  ready 
pulverized  articles  are  adulterated.  This  is  the  reason 
why  more  cures  are  not  performed  by  it.  Dose,  a 
wineglassful  every  two  or  three  hours  a  day  until  all 
is  used.  This  mixture  will  be  found  excellent  for  in- 
termittent fever  and  fever  and  ague. 

Rupture  Salve. 

Take  black  root  and  marshmellow  root  and  marsh  - 
mellow  heart,  of  each  three  ounces,  have  all  pulverized, 
then  mix  with  water  to  a  thick  salve.  Let  it  stand 
four  hours,  then  add  three  ounces  fresh  butter  without 
salt,  mix  it  well.     Apply  once  a  day  warm. 

Rheumatism. 

Poke  root  sliced  thin  and  fried  in  clean  lard,  rub 
well,  as  it  also  strengthens  the  sinews. 

Sore  Throat  and  Mouth. 

Five  cents  worth  chloride  potasse,  half  ro  be  dis- 
solved in  half  pint  water  hot,  when  cool  gargle  the 
throat. 

Sore  Throat. 

If  the  throat  is  very  sore  wring  a  cloth  out  of  cold 
salt  water  and  bind  it  on  the  throat  tightly  when  go- 
ing to  bed,  cover  it  with  a  dry  towel ;  this  is  excellent, 

To  Stop  Bleeding. 
A  handful  of  flour  bound  on  the  cut, 

To  Cure  a  Dog  Bite. 
Soot  and  lard,  equal    parts,  mix   into    a   salve  and 


apply  every  five  minutes. 


70 

To  Cure  Sorbs  of  Long  Standing. 

Take  one  egg  and  half  its  quantity  in  tar,  and  a 
small  quantity  of  sweet  oil ;  mix  well,  and  use  until 
healed. 

Tetter  Ointment. 

Red  precipitate,  five  drachms ;  corrosive  sublimate, 
two  drachms  ;  lard,  ten  ounces ;  mix  cold. 

To  Prevent  Being  Overcome  by  Smoke. 
If  a  person  in  a  house  on  fire  has  the  presence  of 
mind  to  apply  a  wet  cloth  or  handkerchief  to  his 
mouth  or  his  nostrils  a  passage  can  then  be  effected 
through  the  densest  smoke  without  any  serious  in- 
convenience. 

To  Extirpate  Warts. 
Take  blossoms  of  the  walnut  tree,  rub  the  wart  with 
them  and  they  will  soon  heal. 

To  Prevet  Horses  from  Going  Blind. 
When   one  of   the  eyes  of  a  horse  threatens  to  get 
blind  take  wagon  grease  of  a  wheel  that  has  been  run, 
grease    the  eye  of  the  horse  with  it.     It  helps,  and 
will  maintain  healthy  eyes. 

To  Take  out  Poison. 
A  fresh  piece  of  liver  tied  on  a  wound  inflicted  by  a 
nail  or  glass  will  draw  the  poison  out  and  relieve  the 
pain. 

To  Remove  Freckles  and  Tan. 
One  pint  tincture  benzoin,  half  pint  tincture  tolou, 
half  ounce  oil   rosemary;  put  one  teaspoonful  of  the 
above   mixture  in   quarter  pint  of    water  and  with  a 
towel  wash  the  face  night  and  morning. 

Worm  Tea. 
Half  ounce  pink  root,  quarter  ounce  each  of  senna 
and  manna,  one  scruple  pulverized  rhubarb,  divide 
in  two  parts,  make  tea  of  one-half,  give  the  child  un- 
til it  physics;  if  the  one-half  is  not  sufficient,  make 
tea  of  the  other  half  and  continue  on  with  it. 


71 

Weak  Eyes. 

Get  a  five  cent  cake  of  elder  flowers  at  the  druggists 
and  steep  in  one  gill  of  soft  water  in  an  earthen  vessel, 
strain  nicely  and  then  add  three  drops  of  laudanum, 
bottle  it  tight  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place ;  use  it  as  a 
wash,  allowing  some  To  get  in  the  eyes.  Follow  this 
and  relief  is  certain.  If  the  eyes  are  much  inflamed 
or  very  painful  bind  them  up  with  a  soft  cloth,  moist- 
ened with  the  eve  wash,  on  going  to  bed,  and  also  a 
tea  made  of  elder  flowers  and  drank  would  help 
cleanse  the  blood. 

Whooping  Cough  Cure. 

Tea  made  of  the  seeds  of  sunflowers  and  drank  freely 
is  said  to  be  very  efficacious. 

When  a  Horse  does  not  Eat. 

Rub  its  teeth  well  with  pepper  and  garlic,  and  it  will 
soon  eat  again  with  great  appetite.  It  is  a  good 
remedy. 

Pain  Conquerer. 

An  excellent  cure  for  dyspepsia,  toothache,  sick 
stomach,  chronic  or  inflammatory  rheumatism,  neu- 
ralgia, etc.  :  Oil  of  wintergreen,  one-fourth  ounce ;  oil 
of  cinnamon,  one-half  drachm;  oil  of  sassafras,  one 
half  drachm ;  oil  of  origannum,  one-half  drachm  ;  oil 
of  peppermint,  one-half  drachm  ;  oil  of  hemlock,  one- 
half  drachm ;  tincture  of  guaiac,  one  ounce  ;  tincture 
of  colchium,  one  ounce ;  tincture  of  arnica,  four  and 
three-fourth  drachms;  camphor  gum,  one  and  one- 
fourth  scruples;  tincture  gum  myrrh,  one  ounce; 
chloroform,  one  and  one  fourth  drachms  ;  alcohol,  four 
and  one-half  ounces;  mix.  Dose,  one  teaspoonful 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  water  three  or  four  times 
a  day  after  each  meal.  Children  two  to  three  or  five 
drops,  according  to  age,  in  a  little  sweet  water.  Use 
for  pains  of  all  kind,  headache,  sick  stomach.  It  is 
also  very  good  for  dyspepsia— take  one  teaspoonful 
right  after  meals,  three  times  a  day.  and  you  will  soon 
find   relief.     For  toothache  one  drop  in  the  tooth,  or 


72 

more.  Rheumatism,  chronic  or  inflammatory,  and 
neuralgia,  or  pain  in  the  limbs  or  frost  bites.  For 
cramps,  colic  and  diarrhoea,  take  as  often  as  the  case 
may  require.  In  most  all  cases  you  can  use  external 
applications  by  rubbing  briskly.  Use  no  water  in 
bathing. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


American  Writing  Ink. 

Extract  of  logwood,  two  ounces;  bichro  potash,  half 
an  ounce ;  and  boiling  water,  one  gallon. 

Artificial  Honey. 

To  ten  pounds  sugar  add  three  pounds  water,  forty 
grains  cream  tartar,  ten  drops  essence  peppermint, 
and  three  pounds  strained  honey ;  first  dissolve  the 
sugar  in  water  and  take  off  the  scum,  then  dissolve 
the  cream  tartar  in  a  little  warm  water,  which  you 
will  add  with  somelittle  stirring,  then  add  the  honey, 
heat  to  a  boiling  point,  and  stir  for  a  few  minutes. 

A  Preventive  of  Moths. 

After  wiping  up  the  floor  before  putting  the  carpet 
down,  sprinkle  it  all  over  with  salt,  while  damp ;  this 
will  greatly  prevent  moths. 

Bed  Bug  Poison. 

Scotch  snuff  mixed  with  soft  soap  and  applied  with  a 
brush  or  feather  into  all  the  cracks  and  crevises  will 
destroy  them. 

Another  for  Bed  Bugs. 

A  strong  decoction  of  ripe,  red  peppers  is  said  to 
be  as  efficacious  an  antidote  to  bed  bugs  as  can  be 
selected  from  all  the  recipes. 


73 

Brine  that  Preserves  Butter  a  Year. 

To  three  gallons  of  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an 
egg  add  one  quarter  pound  loaf  sugar  and  one  table- 
spoonful  saltpetre,  boil  the  brine  and  when  it  is  cold 
strain  carefully,  pack  butter  closely  in  small  jars  and 
allow  the  brine  to  cover  the  butter  to  the  depth  of 
at  least  four  inches,  this  completely  excludes  the  air; 
if  practicable  make  your  butter  into  small  rolls, 
wrap  each  carefully  in  a  clean  muslin  cloth,  tying  up 
with  a  string,  place  a  weight  over  the  butter  to  keep 
it  submerged  in  the  brine. 

Cockroach  Poison. 

Equal  parts  oatmeal  and  plaster  paris  sprinkled 
where  those  pests  congregate  will  soon  banish  them. 

Cement  for  Glass. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  isinglass  in  two  wine  glasses  of 
spirits  of  wine. 

For  Cleaning  Silver  Ware. 

One  teaspoonful  ammonia  to  a  teacup  of  water  will 
clean  gold  or  silver  jewelry.  A  few  drops  of  clear 
aqua  ammonia  poured  on  the  underside  of  diamonds 
will  clean  them  immediately,  making  them  very  bril- 
liant. 

Furniture  Polish. 

Alcohol,  two  ounces;  linseed  oil,  two  ounces;  win- 
tergreen  oil,  five  drops;  analine,  four  drops. 

For  Mending  Rubber  Goods. 

Equal  parts  of  dammar  varnish  and  asphaltum,  with 
a  little  turpentine  will  make  an  easily  coating,  which 
makes  them  as  good  as  new  again. 

For  Sprinkling  Plants. 

Infuse  one  pound  tobacco  in  a  gallon  of  boiling  water 
in  a  covered  vessel    until  cold. 


74 

For  Lice  in  Vines. 

Boil  half  pound  tobacco  in  two  quarts  water,  strain, 
then  add  half  pound  soft  soap  and  one-fourth  pound 
sulphur. 

Golden  Ointment. 

Melt  eight  ounces  yellow  beeswax  with  one  pound 
lard,  over  hot  water,  and  then  stir  in  one  ounce  cam- 
phor gum,  till  it  is  dissolved,  cool  till  the  hand  can  be 
borne  on  pan,  and  then  thoroughly  stir  in  one  ounce 
oil  organum,  and  one  ounce  laudanum,  till  all  is 
smooth  and  free  from  lumps.  Keep  in  covered  tin 
boxes. 

How  to  Clean  Gloves. 

Wash  them  in  a  little  benzine,  rubbing  and  squeez- 
ing them  until  clean ;  if  much  soiled  use  a  fresh  sup- 
ply of  benzine ;  hang  up  in  the  air  to  dry. 

How  to  Mend  China. 

Take  a  very  thick  solution  of  gum  arabic  in  water, 
and  stir  into  it  plaster  of  paris  until  the  mixture  be- 
comes a  viscous  paste.  Apply  it  with  a  brush  to  the 
fractured  edges,  and  stick  them  together.  The  article 
cannot  be  broken  in  the  same  place.  The  whitness  o 
the  cement  renders  it  doubly  valuable. 

How  to  Renew  Gilt  Frames. 

Rubbing  with  a  sponge  moistened  in  turpentine 
brightens  the  frame  almost  equal  to  new. 

How  to  Remove  Insects  from  Fruit  Trees. 

Place  an  empty  barrel  smeared  with  tar  among  the 
fruit  trees  with  a  light  set  in  the  bottom ;  the  insects 
will  be  attracted  by  the  light  and  circling  around  it 
will  stick  in  the  tar. 

How  to  Raise  a  good  Supply  of  Fresh  Eggs. 

Give  to  each  hen  an  ounce  of  fresh  meat  every  day, 
and  mix  a  small  amount  red  pepper  with  their  food; 
during  the  winter  give  them  plenty  of  grain,  lime 
and  water. 


75 

How  to  Remove  Tar  prom  Cloth. 

Rub  well  with  turpentine  and  soon  all  traces  of  it 
will  disappear. 

How  to  Drive  Mosquitoes  from  a  Room. 

The  smoke  of  burning  camphor  will  expel  those 
nightly  pests  from  your  room.  A  piece  of  sponge  or 
flannel  dipped  in  camphorated  spirits  and  fastened 
to  the  top  of  the  bedstead  will  secure  you  immunity 
at  night. 

How  to  Manage  Brooms. 

By  wetting  brooms  in  boiling  suds  once  a  week  they 
will  become  very  tough  and  will  not  cut  a  carpet,  they 
will  also  last  much  longer  and  always  sweep  like  a  new 
broom. 

How  to  Catch  Fish. 

Take  the  juice  of  smallage  or  lovage  and  mix  with 
any  kind  of  bait.  As  long  as  there  remain  any  kind 
of  fish  within  many  yards  of  your  hook  you  will  find 
yourself  busy  pulling  them  out. 

Another  No.  2. 

Put  the  oil  of  rhodium  on  the  bait  when  fishing 
with  the  hook  and  you  will  always  succeed. 

How  to  Catch  Game. 

Such  as  raccoons  mink,  muskrats,  weasels,  etc.  : 
Valerian  one  ounce,  commercial  musk  quarter  ounce, 
whiskey  one  pint ;  mix  and  let  stand  two  weeks.  Put 
a  few  drops  of  this  on  your  bait. 

Ivory  Harness  Polish. 

Mix  ivory  black  with  copal  varnish ;  the  best  method 
of  mixing  is  to  rub  the  black  with  a  small  quantity  of 
the  varnish,  until  it  is  all  moistened,  and  then  add  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  the  varnish  to  reduce  it  to  the 
proper  degree  of  consistency ;  this  black  being  elastic 
can  be  used  upon  collars  as  well  as  other  parts  of  the 
harness  and  as  a  renovator  for  carriage  tops,  etc. 


76 

Ink  Eradicator. 

Fill  one  two-ounce  bottle  with  a  saturated  solution  of 
oxalic  acid  (as  much  as  the  water  will  dissolve),  and 
another  with  a  saturated  solution  of  chloride  of  lime ; 
label  each,  then  with  a  little  glass  rod  or  wood  tooth- 
pick with  smooth  end,  apply  a  little  of  the  acid  to  a 
blot  or  ink  mark,  gently  rubbing  till  the  ink  is  solved, 
blot  the  paper,  and  apply  in  same  way  with  a  separ- 
ate rod  a  little  of  the  lime,  and  then  blend  in  a  little 
more  of  the  acid,  and  blot;  repeat  if  necessary. 

Mahogany  Stains. 

Break  two  ounces  of  dragon's  blood  in  small  pieces 
and  put  them  in  a  quart  of  rectified  spirits  of  wine, 
let  the  bottle  stand  in  a  warm  place  and  shake  it  fre- 
quently;  when  dissolved  it  is  fit  for  use  and  will  ren- 
der common  wood  an  excellent  imitation  of  mahogany. 

Silver  Wash. 

One  ounce  of  nitric  acid,  one  ten  cent  piece,  one 
ounce  quicksilver.  Put  in  an  open  glass  vessel  and 
let  it  stand  until  dissolved,  then  add  one  pint  of  water 
and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Make  it  into  a  powder  by  add- 
ing whitening,  and  it  may  be  used  on  brass,  copper, 
German  silver,  etc. 

Soda  Cream. 

Boil  one  quart  each  of  granulated  sugar  and  boiling 
water  ten  minutes ;  set  to  cool ;  dissolve  two  ounces 
tartaric  acid  in  four  tablespoons  cold  water,  and  add 
to  the  syrup,  add  white  of  an  egg,  beaten,  in  one 
tablespoon  warm  water,  also  three  teaspoons  lemon 
or  vanilla,  bottle  and  keep  cool. 

To  Prepare  for  Drinking— To  two-thirds  glass  cold 
water  and  two  tablespoons  syrup,  add  soda  size  of  a 
bean;  stir  quickly  and  drink. 

To  Remove  Ink  from  Carpet. 

If  ink  is  spilled  on  the  carpet  throw  a  quantity  of 
salt  on  it,  which  will  quickly  absorb  the  ink,  take 
this  up  and   put   on  more  salt,  keep  repeating  this, 


77 

rubbing  it  well  into  the  ink  spot  until  the  ink  is  all 
taken  up  by  the  salt,  then  brush  the  salt  out  of  the 
carpet. 

If  soot  falls  upon  the  carpet  or  rug  do  not  attempt 
to  sweep  it  until  it  has  been  covered  thickly  with  dry 
salt,  it  can  then  be  swept  up  properly  and  not  a  spot 
or  stain  will  be  left. 

To  Clean  Furniture. 

When  furniture  is  somewhat  marked  or  scratched 
make  a  mixture  of  three  parts  linseed  oil  and  one 
part  spirits  of  turpentine ;  it  not  only  covers  the  dis 
figured  surface  but  restores  wood  to  its  natural  color 
and  leaves  a  lustre  upon  its  surface.  Put  on  with  a 
woolen  cloth  and  when  dry  rub  with  woolen. 

To  Prevent  Turners'  Wood  Splitting*. 

Small  pieces  of  valuable  wood,  such  kind  as  are  used 
for  turning  are  very  liable  to  split  outward  from  the 
center ;  to  prevent  this  soak  the  pieces  when  first  cut 
in  cold  water  twenty-four  hours,  then  boil  in  hot 
water  two  or  three  hours,  then  dry  slowly  and  under 
cover;  this  will  be  found  useful  in'making  handsome 
mantle  toilet  and  other  articles  from  sumac,  cherry 
and  other  woods  that  never  grow  very  large. 

To  Stain  Wood  the  Color  op  Walnut. 

Take  walnut  hulls  and  boil  them  down  to  a  strong 
liquid,  apply  with  a  brush,  and  when  dry  rub  with  a 
woolen  rag  and  then  varnish. 

To  Preserve  Eggs  for  Six  Months  to  One  Year. 

Take  good  sound  eggs  and  put  them  in  strong  lime 
water,  or  pack  them  in  dry  salt. 

To  Catch  Many  Fishes. 

Take  roast  corn  and  mustard  grain  and  the  feet  of 
a  weasel ;  hang  them  in  a  net  and  the  fish  will  con- 
gregate there. 


78 

To  Drive  Away  Bed  Bugs. 

Take  the  scrapings  of  the  hoof  which  the  farrier  cuts 
when  shoeing  a  horse.  Boil  them  well  in  water,  with 
it  wash  the  bedsteads  or  whatever  may  be  infested 
with  the  pests.     It  has  often  been  satisfactorily  tried. 

To  Tan  Skins. 

Sprinkle  first  with  alum,  then  salt,  and  lastly  with 
bran,  then  roll  it  together  and  let  lay  for  a  week  or 
ten  days,  then  finish  up  by  rubbing  until  they  become 
soft. 

To  Tan  Raw  Hides. 

When  taken  from  the  animal  spread  it  fleshside  up, 
then  take  two  parts  salt  and  two  parts  saltpetre  and 
alum  combined,  pulverize  it,  then  sprinkle  it  evenly 
over  the  surface,  roll  it  up  for  a  few  days  until  dis- 
solved, then  take  off  what  flesh  remains,  nail  the  skin 
to  some  building  in  the  sun,  stretch  it  tight ;  to  make 
it  soft  like  harness  leather  rub  it  over  with  neatsfoot 
oil,  fasten  it  up  in  the  sun  again,  then  rub  out  all  the 
oil  you  can  with  a  wedge  shaped  stick,  and  it  is 
tanned  with  the  hair  on. 

Tooth  Powder. 

Have  a  druggist  thoroughy  mix  in  a  mortar,  equal 
parts  of  pulverized  borax  and  orris  root,  and  a  little 
precipitated  chalk  ;  a  drop  or  so  of  any  essential  oil 
will  perfume  the  powder. 

The  Dominie's  Soft  Soap. 

Shave  two  and  one- half  bars  Lautz  Brothers  "Mar- 
seilles soap''  and  melt  in  two  gallons  of  soft  water, 
add  one  and  one  fourth  pounds  of  sal  soda  and  one- 
fourth  pound  powdered  borax;  when  all  is  melted 
pour  in  keg  or  barrel  with  ten  to  twelve  gallons  warm 
water ;  stir  in  thoroughly  two  tabespoons  strong  am- 
monia, two  of  alcohol  and  one  of  turpentine  ;  stir  oc- 
casionally till  stone  cold.  This  soap  is  ready  for  use 
as  soon  as  mixed.  The  borax,  soda,  turpentine  or 
ammonia  may  be  increased  if  desired. 


79 

To  Clean  Silk. 

A  mixture  of  alcohol  and  highly  rectified  benzine  is 
excellent  for  cleaning  ribbons  and  silks.  It  is  ap- 
plied with  a  clean  sponge.  In  using  the  mixture 
care  should  be  taken  not  to  be  near  a  stove  or  lamp. 

To  Drill  Holes  in  Glass. 

Break  the  point  off  a  file,  a  three-cornered  one, 
then  add  coal  oil  and  commence  drilling. 

To  Remove  Fruit  Spots  prom  Cotton  Goods. 

Apply  cold  soap,  then  touch  the  spot  with  a  hair 
pencil  or  feather  dipped  in  chlorate  of  soda,  then  dip 
immediately  in  cold  water. 

To  Destroy  Red  Spiders. 

A  teaspoonf  ul  salt  in  a  gallon  water,  sprinkled  over 
the  plants,  and  in  a  few  days  sprinkle  with  pure 
water. 

To  Prevent  Pumps  from  Freezing. 

Take  out  the  lower  valve  in  the  fall,  drive  a  tack 
under  it,  projecting  in  such  a  way  that  it  cannot  quite 
close,  the  water  will  then  leak  iDto  the  well  or  cistern, 
while  the  working  qualities  of  the  pump  will  not  be 
damaged. 

To  Exterminate  Bed  Buos. 

Cedar  oil  five  cents  worth,  and  ten  cents  worth  tur- 
pentine, mix,  put  in  a  small  can  like  those  used  in 
sewing  machines  and  oil  wherever  there  is  a  necessity. 

To  Drive  Flies  From  a  Room. 

Clusters  of  clover  hung  in  a  room  and  left  to  dry 
and  shed  their  perfume  through  the  air  will  drive 
away  more  flies  than  sticky  saucers  of  molasses  and 
other  fly  traps  and  fly  papers  can  collect. 

To  Clean  Brass. 
Oxalic  acid  half  ounce  to  a  pint  of  soft  water  is  one 
of  the  best  means  known  for  cleaning  and  brightening 
brass  work. 


80 

To  Keep  Flies  off  Gilt  Frames. 

Boil  three  or  four  onions  in  a  pint  of  water  and  ap- 
ply with  a  soft  brush. 

To  Cure  Butter. 

Two  parts  best  common  salt,  one  part  sugar  and 
one  part  saltpetre,  beat  and  mix  well  together ;  take 
one  ounce  of  this  to  every  pound  of  butter,  work  it 
well  into  a  mass  and  close  it  up  for  use.  Butter  thus 
cured  appears  of  a  rich  marrowy  consistence  and  fine 
color  and  does  not  acquire  a  brittle  hardness  nor 
taste  salty  ;  it  will  keep  good  for  three  years  if  let  stand 
three  or  four  weeks  before  opening  it. 


PICKLES. 


Chili  Sauce. 

Eighteen  large  ripe  tomatoes,  one  large  onion,  one 
red  pepper,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and 
cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  cup  sugar  and 
one  cup  vinegar ;  boil  slowly  two  hours. 

Chow  Chow. 

One-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  sliced,  sprinkled  with 
salt  and  left  to  stand  over  night;  in  the  morning 
drain,  chop  fine  and  add  one  large  cabbage  chopped 
fine ;  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  let  stand  one-half 
hour,  drain  dry  through  colander  and  mix  with  one 
quart  onions,  four  ripe  peppers,  one  bunch  celery, 
each  chopped  fine,  and  one  ounce  mustard  seed,  one 
pound  sugar,  one  quart  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  must- 
ard, and  one  ounce  grated  horseradish. 

Cucumber  Pickles. 

Place  cucumbers  in  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  up 
an   egg  and   let  them  stand  over  night ;  rinse  in  the 


81 

morning  and  pour  over  them  boiling  vinegar  to  cover, 
add  horseradish  root  and  spices  if  desired  ;  place  in 
cans  or  jars. 

Cold  Tomato  Catsup. 

Skin  and  remove  soft  parts  and  seeds  from  one  peck 
tomatoes,  and  press  out  under  weight  as  much  juice 
as  possible,  chop  fine  and  add  six  red  and  green  bell 
peppers  and  two  onions,  each  chopped  tine,  one-half 
cup  salt,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  white  mustard 
seed,  two  teaspoons  black  pepper,  three  of  celery 
seed,  one  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  quart  of  good  vine- 
gar, and  nutmeg  to  taste  ;  mix  thoroughly. 

Cucumber  Pickles. 

The  old  style  of  laying  cucumbers  down  in  brine, 
then,  when  wanted  for  use,  soaking  them  out  in  a 
brass  kettle,  to  make  them  green,  is  tedious,  and,  I 
think,  rather  dangerous.  Now,  I  have  good,  nice, 
solid  pickles  that  were  put  down  last  summer,  and  the 
following  is  my  method  of  preparing  them  :  I  pick 
from  the  vines,  wash  carefully,  and  when  dry  put 
them  in  good  cider  vinegar;  tie  a  paper  over  the  top 
of  the  jar;  some  seal  them,  but  I  have  not.  I  like 
this  way  very  much. 

Chili  Sauce. 

Twelve  ripe  tomatoes,  four  ripe  peppers,  two  onions, 
two  tablespoonf ul  sugar  and  two  of  salt,  three  cups 
of  vinegar,  a  little  cinnamon ;  peel  the  tomatoes  and 
chop  them  fine,  also  the  peppers  and  onions;  boil  all 
together  one  hour. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles. 

Slice  one  peck  green  tomatoes  and  let  them  stand 
twelve  hours  in  brine  made  of  one  gill  salt  and  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  then  rinse  in  fresh  water,  and 
boil  slowly  fifteen  minutes  in  preserving  kettle  in  one 
gallon  strong  vinegar,  three  pounds  brown  sugar,  four 
large  onions  sliced  thin,  ten  small  green  peppers,  two 
tablespoons  each  of  ground  cloves,  cinnamon,  ginger, 
and  one  of  mustard. 


82 

HiaDOM. 
Chop  not  too  fine  twenty-five  small  or  seven  large 
cucumbers,  one  large  head  cabbage, two  quarts  onions, 
three  quarts  each  of  green  tomatoes  and  green  pep- 
pers ;  soak  over  night  in  brine  ;  then  drain  and  cook  a 
little  in  one  gallon  vinegar,  one  pound  brown  sugar, 
one-half  pound  mustard  seed,  with  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  allspice  in  a  bag 

Mustard  Pickles. 
Put  in  brine  over  night  two  quarts  each  of  cucum- 
bers, green  tomatoes  and  small  onions,  and  two  heads 
of  cauliflower.  In  the  morning  rinse,  and  add  them 
to  one  gallon  vinegar,  one  pound  ground  mustard, 
one  pound  sugar,  one  large  cup  flour.  When  this  has 
been  brought  to  a  boil,  heat  slowly  and  can. 

Pickled  Oysters. 
Take  the  oysters  and  let  them  scald  in  their  own 
liquor,  pick  them  out  and  let  them  drain,  strain 
liquor  and  take  enough  to  cover  the  oysters,  add  to 
this  a  pint  of  cider  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  of  whole 
black  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  a  little 
mace  and  one  lemon  sliced ;  boil  this  and  pour  over 
the  oysters,  cover  tight.  This  will  be  sufficient  to 
pickle  one  hundred  oysters. 

Pickled  Eggs  and  Beets. 
Boil   six   beets  till  tender,  see  that  they  keep  their 
color,  remove  skins  and  slice ;  boil  one  dozen  eggs,  re- 
move  shells,  and  cover  beets  and  eggs  togeher  with 
vinegar,  adding  a  little  salt;  will  be  ready  in  a  day. 

Sweet  Pickles. 
One  pound  fruit,  three  of  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar, 
one  ounce    cinnamon,  one-half  of  cloves.     This  may 
be  used  for  any  kind  of  pickling  fruit. 

Spiced  Tomatoes. 
Take  green  tomatoes,  slice  them,  and  to  each  quart 
of  vinegar  take  one  pound  sugar  (or  if  the  vinegar  is 
very  strong,  take  a  pound  of    sugar  to  a  pint  of  vine- 


83 

gar) ;  take  a  tablespoonful  of  cloves  and  one  of  cinna- 
mon ;  to  every  gallon  peel  a  middling  sized  onion,  tie 
it  in  a  cloth  and  boil  it  along  ;  boil  the  tomatoes  until 
moderately  soft ;  leave  the  onion  in  the  tomatoes  until 
used. 

Spiced  Peaches. 

Select  nice  ripe  peaches,  rub  off  the  fur  with  a 
coarse  towel,  put  them  into  a  preserving  kettle,  as 
many  as  it  will  hold,  and  to  every  pint  of  sharp  cider 
vinegar  add  one  pound  sugar,  one  ounce  of  stick  cin- 
namon and  half  teaspoonful  cloves  (always  have 
enough  of  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  to  cover  the 
fruit),  put  all  into  a  kettle  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
then  take  out  the  peaches  carefully  and  boil  the 
sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
longer,  and  when  it  has  boiled  that  long  pour  over 
the  peaches,  and  when  cold  tie  them  up  and  keep  in 
a  cool,  dry  place.  Pears,  quinces,  cherries  and  plums 
can  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

Spiced  Apples. 

One  quart  vinegar,  six  cups  sugar;  boil  sugar  and 
vinegar  and  skim,  then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, cloves  and  allspice,  boil  in  this  syrup  sweet 
apples  cut  in  halves  (do  not  pare  the  apples),  boil  un- 
til soft,  but  not  till  they  break. 

Stuffed  Bell  Peppers 

Cut  the  peppers  at  one  side,  remove  seeds,  and  fill 
with  cold  meat  of  any  kind  minced  fine  with  a  little 
onion,  and  mixed  thoroughly  with  bread  crumbs  sea-' 
soned  highly,  with  a  little  celery  seed  added,  and 
moistened  with  gravy  or  milk.  Bake  in  dripping  pan 
twenty  minutes :  serve  hot,  one  to  each  person. 

To  Pickle  String  Beans. 

Place  them  in  a  pan  with  alternate  layers  of  salt  and 
leave  them  thus  for  twenty-four  hours,  drain  them 
and  place  them  in  a  jar  with  allspice,  cloves,  pepper 
and  a  little  salt ;  boil  enough  vinegar  to  cover  them, 
pour  over  them  and  let  them  stand  till  the  next  day ; 


84 

boil  the  vinegar  the  second  time  and  pour  it  on  again  ; 
the  next  day  boil  the  vinegar  for  the  last  time,  pour 
it  over  the  beans,  and  when  quite  cold  cover  the  jar 
tightly  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

One-half  bushel  tomatoes,  two  quarts  vinegar,  one- 
half  pound  salt,  two  tablespoons  each  ot  black  pepper, 
allspice  and  cloves,  one  of  red  pepper,  four  of  must- 
ard, one-half  pound  of  sugar;  boil  four  hours. 

Tomato  Soy. 

Slice  one-fourth  inch  thick  one  peck  green  tomatoes, 
sprinkle  in  layers  with  one  pint  of  salt,  let  stand  till 
morning,  drain  off  and  add  one  ounce  whole  cloves, 
one  of  allspice,  one-half  pound  white  mustard  seed, 
one-fourth  pound  made  mustard ;  cover  with  vinegar 
and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Onions  may  be  added  if  de- 
sired. 


PIES. 


Apple  Pie. 

Line  pie  plate  with  rich  crust,  fill  with  finely  cut 
sour  apples,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  sprinkle 
with  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  lit- 
tle fine  cut  lemon  peel,  wet  edge  of  crust  and  cover; 
bake  till  apples  are  thoroughly  done,  if  apples  are  not 
juicy  add  a  little  water  ;  bind  edge. 

Apple  Custard  Pies. 

No.  1— Stew  sour  apples,  mash  fine;  for  each  pie  al- 
low yolk  one  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter 
and  "one-fourth  nutmeg,  grated.  Bake  with  one  crust ; 
use  white  of  egg  as  frosting,  spread  on  pie  after  it  is 
baked  ;  return  to  oven  and  brown. 


85 

No.  2— Three  cups  stewed  apples,  two  cups  sugar, 
one-half  cup  melted  butter,  four  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately.     Bake  with  one  crust. 

Chocolate  Pie. 

Roll  a  thin  crust,  prick  it,  and  bake.  Take  three 
cakes  "  German  Sweet  Chocolate,"  one  cup  milk,  yolfcs 
two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour,  pinch 
of  salt,  and  vanilla;  after  cooking  until  smooth  and 
thick,  put  in  the  baked  crust ;  beat  the  two  whites 
and  three  tablespoons  granulated  sugar  for  frosting ; 
spread  on  chocolate  and  bake  till  light  brown, 

Cocoanut  Pie. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  one  teacupcocoanut,  two  eggs, 
one  cup  sugar  and  a  little  salt. 

Cream  Pies. 

No.  1— Two-thirds  cup  sour  cream,  two  thirds  cup 
sweet  milk,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  raisins, 
stoned  and  chopped,  yolks  three  eggs,  white  of  one 
ess  an(*  pinch  of  salt ;  bake  like  a  custard  ;  when  done 
beat  two  whites  with  three  tablespoons  granulated 
sugar  ;  brown  in  oven. 

No.  2— Cover  pie  tin  with  crust,  prick  with  fork, 
then  bake. 

Filling— Heat  one  pint  milk  to  boiling,  add  one  cup 
sugar,  yolk  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  flour;  cook  thor- 
oughly and  flavor  with  vanilla ;  pour  on  crust  pre- 
viously baked,  beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  three 
tablespoons  granulated  sugar  and  beat  well ;  pour 
over  pie  and  brown. 

Corn  Pone. 

Take  one  quart  buttermilk,  a  tablespoonf  ul  lard,  one 
egg,  teaspoonful  soda,  teaspoonful  salt,  teacupfnl 
wheat  flour,  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  corn  meal  to 
thicken  ;  bake  in  pans. 


Lemon  Pies. 

No.  1 — Grate  rind  of  one  lemon,  peel  and  slice  thin  ; 
add  two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  water  and 
one  tablespoon  flour;  beat  well  and  bake  with  two 
crusts. 

No.  2 — Crust:  One  pound  lard  to  one  teacup  water 
and  one  teaspoon  salt. 

Filling— Four  lemons  and  peel  of  one  lemon,  five 
cups  sugar,  four  eggs  and  five  cups  water ;  boil  half 
an  hour;  put  eggs  in  when  cold;  bake  with  two 
crusts. 

No.  3— Juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  two 
cups  powdered  sugar,  small  piece  of  melted  butter 
and  two  eggs;  beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together 
until  light;  beat  whites  to  a  froth  and  stir  in  last  ; 
bake  with  rich  under  crust. 

No.  4— One  large  lemon,  one  egg,  one  cup  water, 
one-half  cup  stoned  raisins,  chopped,  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  corn  starch,  one  cup  sugar,  and 
pinch  of  salt ;  peel  the  thin  yellow  from  the  lemon  and 
chop  very  fine,  chop  raisins,  add  the  other  things  and 
bake  in  two  rich  crusts. 

No.  5— The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one 
cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  boiling  water  and  one 
tablespoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold  water ;  add 
beaten  yolks  to  sugar  and  lemon  juice ;  stir  corn 
starch  into  the  boiling  water;  when  well  cooked  pour 
over  the  eggs,  sugar  and  lemon  ;  beat  hard,  have  pie 
crust  baked;  fill  with  this  mixture;  place  in  oven  till 
firm  ;  then  cover  with  a  meringue  made  from  whites 
of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  granulated  sugar. 
Brown  in  oven. 

Lemon  Custard. 

One  grated  lemon,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  one  pint 
water,  one  cupful  cracker  crumbs,  oyster  crackers  pre- 
ferred, sweeten  to  taste. 

Mock  Mince  Pie. 

One  egg,  one  half  cup  molasses,  one -half  cup  sugar, 
three  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  cup  chopped  raisins, 
small  piece  butter,  spice,  salt,  and  four  large  crackers. 


87 

Mince  Pie. 

Three  pounds  of  beef,  half  pound  suet,  boil  the  beef, 
then  chop  it  fine,  have  half  as  many  apples  as  beef, 
one  pint  rum,  cloves,  cinnamon,  mace  and  nutmeg  to 
taste,  sweeten  and  thin  it  sufficiently  with  water. 

Peach  Pie. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  puff  paste,  fill  with  pared  peaches 
in  halves  or  quarters  well  covered  with  sugar,  put  on 
upper  crust  and  bake ;  or  make  as  above  without 
upper  crust  and  bake  until  done,  remove  from  oven 
and  cover  with  meringue  made  of  whites  two  eggs 
beaten  to  stiff  froth  with  two  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar;  return  to  oven  and  brown  slightly;  canned 
peaches  may  be  used,  two- thirds  cup  sugar,  and  one 
tablespoon  flour,  allow  for  one  pie. 

Pie  Plant  Pie. 

Cut  the  pie-plant  into  pieces,  pour  over  it  one  cup 
sugar  and  one  egg,  beat  all  together,  add  two  tea- 
spoons corn  starch,  mix  in  a  cup  with  a  little  cold 
water,  and  boiling  water  added  to  fill  cup,  when  the 
corn  starch  is  cool;  bake  in  double  crusts.  Make 
lemon  pies  the  same  way.  One  cup  raisins  may  be 
added. 

Pineapple  Pie. 

One  large  pineapple  or  two  small  ones  (chop  fine), 
two  cups  sugar,  three  tablespoonsful  corn  starch, 
three  eggs,  one  cup  sweet  milk  or  water;  this  wil 
make  three  pies,  bake  with  two  crusts. 

Pineapple  No.  2. 
One  grated    pineapple,  one  grated  lemon,  yolks   of 
two   eggs,  milk   enough  for  one  pie,  sweeten  to  taste  ; 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  for  a  meringue. 

Raisin  Pie. 
One   cup  raisins  stoned  and  chopped  fine,  one  cup 
hot    water   thickened   with   three  tablespoons  flour, 
butter  size  of  hickory  nut,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
vinegar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  cook  and  add  raisins. 


88 

Sugar  Crumb  Pie, 

Take  two  cups  flour,  one  cup  and  a  half  white  sugar, 
three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  lard,  rub  well 
together,  then  take  out  a  cuptul  to  pat  on  the  pies  be- 
fore baking  ;  after  you  have  one  cup,  mix  the  rest  with 
a  half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  and  two  teaspoonsful 
baking  powder;  flavor  with  nutmeg. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 


Apple  Dumplings. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  cream 
tartar,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoon  each  of  but- 
ter and  lard  and  a  little  salt ;  mix  quite  firm,  roll  and 
cut  in  nine  squares  ;  fill  with  quick  coo*king  apples  and 
make  into  dumplings;  put  in  steamer,  cover  tight  and 
steam  about  half  an  hour;  serve  with  any  favorite 
sauce.     These  may  be  baked. 

Apple  Jack,  or  Coaka 

Take  a  piece  of  bread  dough  enough  for  a  loaf ;  after 
it  is  raised,  add  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  work  all  together,  set  to  rise ;  when 
light  roll  to  fit  a  dripping  pan,  place  on  top  one-eig-hth 
pieces  of  apples  laid  closely  all  over,  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  a  little  cinnamon  and  bits  of  butter;  let  rise  a 
little  while,  bake,  and  serve  with  coffee. 

Apple  Jonathan. 

One  pint  milk,  two  eggs,  one-half  tea  cup  lard,  one 
small  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter  ; 
line  a  pudding  pan  with  half  the  batter,  put  a  thick 
layer  of  apples  or  any  other  fresh  fruit,  and  cover  with 
the  remaining  batter ;  bake  till  the  fruit  is  done,  serve 
with  egg  or  clear  sauce. 


89 

Apple  Pudding. 

Two  pounds  nice  juicy  apples,  pared  and  boiled, 
pressed  through  a  colander  ;  add  one  tablespoon  butter 
while  hot,  one-half  pound  white  sugar  ;  when  cold  add 
six  eggs,  grated  rind  of  lemon  ;  pour  in  deep  dish  and 
bake  one  half  hour. 

Apple  Snow. 

Put  one  pint  milk  in  double  boiler,  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  add  a  small  tablespoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in 
cold  water;  beat  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  stir  while  boil- 
ing five  minutes,  add  a  little  salt  and  flavor  when  cold. 

Meringue — Peel  and  grate  one  large,  sour  apple, 
sprinkling  as  you  grate,  with  one  teacup  powdered 
sugar ;  break  into  this  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  all  to- 
gsther  until  very  stiff  and  pour  over  custard. 

A  Good  Dish. 

Mince  cold  beef  or  lamb,  if  beef  put  in  a  pinch  of 
pulverized  cloves ;  if  lamb  a  pinch  of  summer  savory 
to  season  it;  a  little  pepper  and  some  salt,  and  put  it 
in  a  baking  dish,  mash  potatoes  and  mix  them  with 
cream  and  butter  and  a  little  salt,  and  spread  them 
over  the  meat,  beat  up  an  egg  with  cream  or  milk  a 
very  little,  spread  it  over  the  potatoes  and  bake  it  a 
short  time,  sufficient  to  warm  it  through  and  brown 
the  potatoes. 

American  Toast. 

To  one  egg  thoroughly  beaten  put  one  cup  sweet 
milk  and  a  little  salt,  slice  light  bread  and  dip  into  the 
mixture,  allowing  each  slice  to  absorb  some  of  the 
milk,  then  brown  on  a  hot  buttered  griddle  ;  spread 
with  butter  and  serve  hot. 

Bread  Omelet. 

One  large  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs  and  one  tea- 
cupful  of  cream,  a  dessert  spoonful  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  also  a  little  nutmeg;  when  the  bread 
crumbs  have  absorbed  all  the  cream  add  three  well 
beaten  eggs  and  fry  in  butter. 


90 

Bread  Pudding. 

One  quart  milk,  four  eggs,  the  whites  of  three  more 
for  meringue,  two  cups  very  fine  dry  bread  crumbs, 
one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  one  teacup  sugar,  juice 
and  one-half  the  grated  peel  of  one  lemon  ;  beat  eggs, 
sugar  and  butter  together,  soak  cranibs  in  milk,  mix 
all  well,  beating  hard  and  rapidly  ;  season  and  bake  in 
greased  baking  dish  ;  when  almost  done  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  of  whites  of  three  eggs  and  three  table- 
spoons granulated  sugar;  beat  well  and  meringue  will 
not  fall.  For  queen  of  puddings  add  a  layer  of  jelly 
between  the  pudding  and  meringue. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. 

One  quart  milk,  a  little  salt ;  take  one  cup  cocoanut 
and  scald,  add  one  cup  sugar,  three  teaspoons  corn 
starch,  yolk  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  stir  in  the 
milu,  flavor,  bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour;  when 
done  beat  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  froth,  add  two  table- 
spoons sugar  and  pour  on  top ;  brown  in  oven. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  scant  pint  bread  crumbs, 
yolks  three  eggs,  five  tablespoons  grated  chocolate; 
scald  milk,  add  bread  crumbs  and  chocolate;  take 
from  the  stove  and  add  one-half  cup  sugar  and  beaten 
yolks.  Bake  half  an  hour.  Make  a  meringue  and  pro- 
ceed as  in  "Bread  Pudding."  Serve  cold  with  sweet- 
ened cream. 

Custard  Pudding. 

Heat  one  and  one-half  pints  milk  to  nearly  boiling, 
stir  into  this  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one -half  tablespoon 
corn  starch,  first  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water,  one 
half  cup  sugar  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  let  the  whole 
thicken  about  as  thick  as  custard  ;  dip  slices  of  any 
plain  cake  in  milk  and  place  in  deep  dish  and  pour 
over  it  the  custard ;  when  cold  add  to  the  top  a  me- 
ringue as  for  cocoanut  pudding  ;  brown  lightly  in  oven. 


91 

Cranberry  Rolls. 

Stew  one  quart  cranberries  in  a  little  water,sweeten, 
drain  off  the  juice  and  cool.  Make  a  biscuit  crust; 
after  you  have  rolled  it  out  spread  with  the  fruit,  roll 
it  up,  place  in  steamer  and  boil  two  hours  or  until  bis- 
cuit crust  is  done.  Serve  with  sauce  made  from  the 
juice  of  fruit  thickened  with  a  little  corn  starch.  Can 
use  berries  of  any  kind  ;  cherries  are  especially  nice. 

Cream  Puffs. 

Melt  one-half  cup  butter  in  one  cup  hot  water,  while 
boiling  stir  in  one  cup  flour,  cool,  then  stir  in  three 
eggs, one  at  a  time,  without  beating ;  drop  on  buttered 
tins  and  bake  about  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

For  the  Cream — One-half  pint  milk,  one  egg,  three 
tablespoons  sugar,  two  large  tablespoons  flour,  boil  an 
flavor  ;  when  baked  open  the  side  of  each  puff,  and  fill 
with  cream. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

One  pint  sweet  cream  whipped  light,  one-half  ounce 
gelatine  dissolved  in  one  gill  hot  milk,  whites  of  two 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  teacup  powdered 
sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  mix  the  cream,  eggs 
and  sugar,  flavor  and  beat  in  the  gelatine  and  milk 
last,  added  when  cold  ;  line  molds  with  slices  of  sponge 
cake  or  lady  fingers;  fill  with  the  mixture  and  set 
upon  ice  to  cool. 

Corn  Starch  Pudding. 

Bring  to  boil  in  double  boiler,  one  pint  milk,  then 
add  three  tablespoons  sugar,  two  of  corn  starch,  dis- 
solved in  a  little  milk,  and  last,  whites  of  three  eggs, 
beaten  stiff.  Beat  this  and  cook  a  few  minutes,  then 
nour  in  cups  till  half  full,  and  cool ;  serve  with  one  pint 
milk  brought  to  boil,  add  three  tablespoons  suerar, 
then  beaten  volks  of  three  eggs  thinned  with  one  table- 
spoon milk,  stir  till  it  thickens, then  flavor  to  taste. 


92 

English  Plum  Puddings. 

Wo.  1— One-half  pound  sugar,  one- half  pound  stoned 
raisins,  one-half  pound  sultana  raisins,  one-half  pound 
currants,  one -half  pound  suet,  one-fourth  pound 
grated  bread  crumbs,  one -fourth  pound  flour,  two 
ounces  each  of  candied  lemon  and  orange  peel  and  cit- 
ron, one  teaspoon  salt,  four  eggs,  one-fourth  spoon 
each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon  and  one-half  nut- 
meg grated ;  fill  pound  baking  powder  boxes  two- 
thirds  full,  cover  and  steam  four  hours.  This  pudding 
will  keep  for  months;  when  you  wish  to  use  cut  in 
slices,  set  on  a  plate  in  The  steamer  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  any  rich  sauce. 

No.  2— One  loaf  baker's  bread  soaked  in  milk,  two 
pounds  brown  sugar,  two  pounds  raisins  seeded,  one 
pound  currants,  one-half  pound  citron  sliced  thin,  one- 
half  pound  suet  chopped  fine,  one-half  cup  flour,  four 
eggs,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one 
nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  allspices,  and  one  teaspoon 
cloves  ;  boil  in  cloth  or  steam  as  above. 

Fig  Pudding. 

One  pint  fine  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  chopped  suet, 
one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  and  one -half  pound  figs  ;  chop 
figs,  add  suet,  crumbs  and  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  salt ; 
steam  three  hours  in  same  dish  you  serve  it  in ;  keep 
covered  while  steaming. 

Fruit,  or  Berry  Pudding. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  pint  flour,  three 
eggs,  one  quart  berries,  one-half  teaspoon  mace  or 
nutmeg, four  large  teaspoons  butter  and  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder;  roll  the  berries  well  in  flour,  stir  in 
batter  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Serve  with  sauce  (see 
sauces). 

Fruit  Pudding. 

One-half  box  gelatine  soaked  in  one-half  pint  cold 
water  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  one-half  pint 
boiling  water,  two  cups  sugar  and  juice  two  lemons; 
stir  until  dissolved,  strain  and  when  pretty  stiff  stir  in 


93 

the  fruit ;  one  orange,  four  figs,  six  dates,  each  cut  in 
bits ;  two  bananas  sliced,  sixteen  blanched  almonds 
and  some  malaga  grapes  or  raisins ;  turn  into  a  mold, 
let  narden,  serve  wilh  whipped  cream. 

Fruit  Puffs. 

One  pint  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt ;  sift  all  together,  then  stir  in  sweet 
milk  until  a  thick  batter  is  formed,  put  a  tablespoon 
of  the  batter  into  teacups,  until  half  is  used,  then  place 
on  this  a  spoonful  of  any  kind  of  fruit  without  the 
juice  ;  put  rest  of  batter  in  each  cup  and  steam  twenty 
minutes.     Eat  with  sauce. 

German  Puffs. 

Three  cups  flour,  three  cups  milk,  three  eggs,  whites 
and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very  light,  three  tea- 
spoons melted  butter,  and  pinch  of  salt ;  pour  in  nine 
well -buttered  cups,  and  bake  to  a  fine  brown  ;  eat  hot 
with  sauce. 

Green  Corn  Pudding. 

Grate  one  dozen  ears  green  corn,  beat  into  it  four 
eggs,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  quart  sweet  milk,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper  and  two  cups  sugar;  put  milk  in 
last.     Flavor  to  suit ;  bake  one  hour. 

Graham  Pudding. 

One  cup  raisins,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  mo- 
lasses, two  eggs,  two  cups  graham  flour  and  one  tea- 
spoon soda;  steam  three  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

Indian  Pudding. 

Boil  one  pint  milk;  while  boiling  stir  in  one  large 
tablespoon  Indian  meal ;  cool  a  little,  add  two  well 
beaten  eggs,  one  pint  cold  milk,  one  tablespoon  flour, 
stirred  to  a  paste,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  mo- 
lasses, one  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  a  little  salt.  Bake 
one  hour  and  a  half. 


94 

Orange  Puddings. 

No.  1— Cut  four  oranges  in  thin  slices,  cover  with 
sugar  in  dish  you  intend  to  serve  in  ;  let  one  cup  milk 
come  to  a  boil,  stir  yolks  two  eggs  and  one  tablespoon 
corn  starch  in  boiling  milk,  boil  five  minutes  and  throw 
this  over  the  oranges  ;  stiffen  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs 
with  powdered  sugar,  cover  top  of  pudding  with  this, 
and  brown  slightly,  in  oven. 

No.  2— One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  rolled  crackers, 
two  eggs,  one-half  tablespoon  butter,  and  one  orange, 
grate  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice,  one  quart  milk  ;  bake 
as  a  custard. 

Prune  Pudding. 

One  pound  prunes  stewed  and  chopped  fine,  then 
add  one-half  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  small  teaspoon 
cream  tartar,  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  stiff ;  put  in 
dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes ;  served  with  whipped 
cream. 

Plum  Pudding. 

Soak  one  cup  dried  plums  in  water  over  night ;  drain 
and  dredge  with  flour;  take  two  cups  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  one  large  tablespoon  sugar,  mix  thoroughly  ;  add 
enough  milk  to  make  stiff  dough  and  stir  in  the  plums, 
put  in  srreased  tin  basin  and  steam  one  hour;  serve 
with  sauce. 

Potato  Cream. 

Take  well  seasoned  mashed  potato,  add  to  it  the 
well  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  set  in  oven  till  light 
and  puffy ;  serve. 

Rice  Pudding. 
One  cup  boiled  rice,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  a  little 
butter,  one  quart  milk,  one  cup  raisins,  salt  and  nut- 
meg.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Salem  Pudding. 
One-half  cup  butter,    one-half  cup  molasses,    one- 
half  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  soda, 
one-half  cup  raisins,  one-half  teaspoon  cloves,  and  a 
little  salt ;  serve  with  sauce. 


95 


Sauces. 


Boiled  No.  1— Stir  two  well  beaten  eggs,  one  cup 
sugar,  one-half  cap  butter,  melt  over  teakettle  and 
add  one -half  cup  cream,  milk  or  water;  flavor. 

Boiled  No.  2— Boil  one-half  cup  butter,  two  cups 
sugar  till  clear;  add  two  cups  boiling  water,  and  stir 
in  an  even  teaspoon  flour,  made  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
water  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  to  suit. 

Egg— Rub  together  two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  then  beat  to  a  foam  with  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
lemon  or  vanilla,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

Milk — Two  eggs,  one  heaping  cup  sugar,  five  table 
spoons  boiling  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  corn  starch, 
one  tablespoon  butter ;  cook  in  double  boiler  and 
flavor. 

Steamed  Pudding. 

One-half  pint  milk,  two  cups  sifted  flour,  two  eggs, 
one  cup  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped,  one  cup  suet, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder;  steam  two  hours. 
Serve  with  sauce. 

Suet  Pudding. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sour  milk,  three-fourths 
cup  suet  chopped  fine,  one  cup  currants,  one  cup 
seeded  raisins,  cut  fine  with  scissors,  three  cups  flour, 
one -half  teaspoon  soda,  salt,  cinnamon  and  cloves  to 
taste ;  steam  three  hours,  serve  with  hard  and  soft 
sauce ;  will  keep. 

Strawberry  Tapioca 

Soak  one  cup  tapioca  in  water  until  clear,  then  pour 
it  over  two-thirds  cup  straw  berries, one-half  cup  sugar, 
and  bake  one-half  hour  ;  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Tapioca  and  Indian  Pudding. 

Soak  large  spoon  tapioca  over  night,  in  the  morning 
scald  in  one  quart  of  milk,  when  hot  stir  in  four  table- 
spoons Indian  meal  wet  with  cold  milk, and  large  lump 


96 

of  butter,  let  boil  ten  minutes  ;  when  cool  add  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  a 
little  ginger,  nutmeg  and  sale,  and  last  a  cup  of  cold 
milk;  beat  well  and  bake  three  hours. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

Soak  over  night  three  tablespoons  of  tapioca,  take 
one  quart  milk,  one  teacup  sugar,  put  in  tapioca  and 
let  cook  in  dish  set  in  water  until  clear,  then  add  yolks 
three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch,  and  cook  a 
few  minutes ;  take  off  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  put  in 
earthen  dish  and  cover  with  the  whites  three  eggs, 
beaten  stiff ;  sweeten,  then  brown  in  oven. 


SALADS. 


Salads. 

Cabbage— Mix  one  quart  chopped  cabbage,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  four  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs  ;  pour  over 
this  when  boiling  hot,  one-half  cup  weak  vinegar,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  one  tablespoon  mustard  and  three  of 
sugar. 

Chicken  —  Mix  chopped  cold  chicken,  three-fourths 
as  much  chopped  celery  or  lettuce,  three  hard  boiled 
eggs  sliced  thin,  pepper  and  salt ;  pour  over  this,  boil- 
ing hot,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  half 
of  flour,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one  egg  and  three- 
fourths  cup  vinegar. 

Fish— Pick  fine  any  cold  cooked  fish,  add  one  half 
an  onion  chopped  fine  and  season  ;  pour  over  this  May- 
onnaise dressing. 

Lobster— Mix  one  can  lobster  chopped  fine,  twice  the 
amount  of  celery,  lettuce,  or  tender  cabbage,  whites 
of  two  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  and  yolks  rubbed 
smooth  ;  pour  over  this  one  raw  egg  beaten  smooth 
with  one   teaspoon   salt,  a  tablespoon  mustard,  two 


97 

tablespoons  saJad  oil,  added  slowly,  and  vinegar  to 
make  sufficiently  moist. 

Potato— Mix  six  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  dice  with 
one  small  boiled  carrot  chopped  ;  pour  over  this  May- 
onnaise No.  2,  made  with  onion  vinegar ;  when  cold 
grate  over  it  yolk  of  hard  boiled  egg. 

Salmon— Mix  equal  quantities  of  chopped  canned 
salmon  and  celery  or  cabbage  ;  just  before  serving  pour 
over  this,  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  rubbed  fine 
with  the  raw  yolk  of  one,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  salt  and 
mustard,  one  half  teaspoon  melted  butter,  one -half 
teacup  vinegar ;  garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced. 

Dressings. 

Mayonnaise  No.  1— Cook  in  double  boiler  two  eggs, 
whites  added  last,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  two  of  butter, 
two  of  vinegar,  one  of  mustard,  one  teaspoon  salt  and 
pepper;  when  cold  add  cream  to  make  thin  as  boiled 
custard. 

Mayonnaise  No.  2 — Cook  in  double  boiler,  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  one-half  cup  melted  butter,  one-third  cup 
vinegar,  one  teasloon  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  mus- 
tard, one-half  of  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  ;  if  too  thick 
when  cold  add  vinegar. 

Onion  Vinegar — Pour  vinegar  upon  chopped  onion 
and  let  it  stand  an  hour,  and  then  strain. 

Mayonnaise,  Kingsley—Stir  well  with  a  fork  in  a 
bowl,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  salt. 
one  teaspoon  mustard,  and  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper ; 
drop  in  slowly  one-fourth  pint  olive  oil  until  it  thick- 
ens then  add  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  three  table- 
spoons vinegar,  stirring  constantly. 


SOUPS. 


Asparagus  Sour. 
Boil  in  quart  of  water  till  tender,  one  quart  aspara- 
gus cut  in  inch  lengths,  rub  through  colander  and  re- 
turn to  the  liquor;  heat  one  pint  milk,  stir  into  it  one 
7 


98 

tablespoon  butter  rubbed  with  one  of  flour,  cook  a 
little,  season,  and  pour  into  asparagus  ;  bring  to  boil 
and  pour  into  tureen  over  toast  cut  in  dice.  {Serve 
hot. 

Brown  Beef  Soup. 

Boil  in  saucepan  one  hour,  three  pounds  beef  cut  in 
strips  and  three  quarts  water :  have  ready  three  oniony 
sliced  and  fried  in  butter  to  light  brown  ;  add  this  to 
beef  with  one  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  pepper,  mace 
and  powdered  savory,  pinch  of  allspice,  chopped  celery, 
or  one  teaspoon  celery  essence ;  stew  all  till  beef  is  in 
pieces,  strain,  return  to  fire,  salt  and  serve. 

Corn  Soup. 

Pour  one  quart  boiling  water  over  can  of  corn 
chopped  fine, cook  one  hour,  rub  through  colander  and 
return  to  kettle ;  season,  boil  one  minute,  stir  in  two 
tablespoons  butter  rubbed  with  one  of  flour  ;  scald  one 
pint  milk,  add  it  gradually  to  two  beaten  eggs ;  then 
add  this  to  corn. 

Consomme  Royal. 

Put  in  copper  pot  one  gallon  cold  beef  stock,  and 
eight  eggs  and  their  shells,  two  quarts  of  a  little  of  all 
kinds  of  soup  greens,  twelve  cloves,  twelve  allspice, 
two  bay  leaves  and  small  handful  salt,  all  well  mixed  ; 
add  small  bits  of  ice,  bring  to  boil  over  a  slow  fire,  when 
the  eggs  will  curdle  and  soup  will  clear,  strain  through 
cloth. 

Cream  of  Bean  Soup. 

Bring  gradually  to  boil  in  porcelain  kettle,  one  pint 
beans,  one-half  pound  pork,  one-half  an  onion,  and 
three  quarts  cold  water;  simmer  till  beans  are  well 
swelled,  then  boil  till  they  are  tender,  skim  beans, 
pass  through  colander  and  return  to  kettle,  thicken 
with  flour  or  corn  starch,  season  with  nutmeg  and 
pepper.     Serve  hot  with  bread  not  fried  in  dice. 


99 

Mutton  Soup. 

Boil  neck  of  mutton  slowly  three  hours  in  two  quarts 
water,  add  sliced  carrots,  turnips,  tomatoes  and  po- 
tatoes, salt  and  pepper  ;  then  boil  till  meat  drops  from 
bones  and  stir  in  one  egg  beaten  with  one  tablespoon 
flour ;  cook  this  through  and  strain. 

Noodle  Soup. 

Boil  till  tender  one  pound  meat  in  three  quarts 
water,  with  salt,  pepper  and  one  cup  rice  ;  meanwhile 
mix  two  well -beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  flour  to 
make  stiff;  roll  very  thin,  lay  on  moulding  board  till 
dry,  then  roll  just  as  jelly  cake  ;  cut  in  thin  shreds  and 
add  to  meat  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  before  serving. 

Potato  Soup. 

Boil  together  eight  potatoes  and  two  small  onions  in 
one  quart  water,  mash  hot,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt 
and  one-half  tablespoon  butter;  pour  on  them  the 
liquor  and  one  quart  boiling-  milk,  and  bring  all  to 
boil;  beat  an  egg  in  tureen,  strain  the  mixture  and 
pour  on  egg,  stirring  constantly. 

Quick  Soup,  with  Canned  Goods. 

Soak  a  can  of  peas  till  very  soft ;  press  through  coarse 
sieve,  add  one  quart  milk  (or  half  water),  butter  size 
of  an  egg ;  bring  to  boil ;  thicken  with  corn  starch  to 
a  cream,  add  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Serve  hot 
with  fried  bread.  Rice,  potato,  asparagus  and  celery 
soupmay  be  made  in  same  manner. 

Soup  Stock. 

Bring  to  boil  five  or  six  pounds  soup  meat  cut  in 
pieces,  two  small  onions,  bunch  of  soup  herbs,  salt  and 
pepper  ;  then  skim  well  and  set  aside  to  simmer,  closely 
covered,  six  or  eight  hours  ;  strain  and  set  away.  The 
next  day  skim  off  all  fat.  To  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
this  stock  add  a  small  quantity  of  vegetables  cut  in 
dice,  for  Julienne  soup;  or  maocaroni   or  vermicelli, 


100 

broken  in  small  pieces  and  boiled  half  an  hour,  or  a 
little  barley  boiled  an  hour  may  be  added  to  stock,  for 
maccaroni,  vermicelli  or  barley  soup. 

Tomato  Soup. 

Boil  together  one  quart  tomatoes  and  one  pint  water 
twenty  minutes;  strain  through  colander  and  add  one 
quart  milk  and  scant  half  teaspoon  soda;  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  boil  ten  minutes. 

Veal  So  it  p. 

Cover  two  veal  shanks  with  cold  water  and  cook  till 
tender,  strain  and  cool,  then  skim  thoroughly  ;  have 
ready  one-half  cup  cooked  rice,  add  the  cold  stock, 
bring  to  boil,  add  one  quart  milk,  bring  to  boil,  re- 
move from  fire  and  stir  in  two  eggs  well  beaten  ;  season 
to  taste. 


VEGETABLES. 


Baked  Maccaroni. 

Soak  maccaroni  in  salted  water  till  soft,  then  cook 
together  one  cup  each  of  milk  and  cream,  or  two  of* 
milk,  with  one  piece  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  tablespoon 
flour,  one  cup  grated  cheese;  add  maccaroni;  put  in 
deep  dish,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs,  and  bake. 

Cream  Cabbage. 

Beat  together  yolks  two  eggs,  one  half  cup  each  of 
sugar  and  vinegar,  butter  size  of  egg,  and  salt ;  stir  ■in 
agate  dish  till  it  boils ;  add  one  cup  cream  or  milk, and 
pour  over  chopped  cabbage. 

Croquettes  with  Grekn  Peas. 

Mince  fine  two  cups  of  cold  cooked  chicken  or  veal, 
wet  with  a  little  milk  or  cream,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  curry  powder,  bind  with  one  egg, 
heat  it  up ;  cool,  then  shape  with  hands,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.     Stew 


101 

and  strain  one  cup  of  srreen  or  canned  peas  and  stir 
them  into  a  drawn  butter  sauce,  and  pour  around  the 
croquettes. 

Canning. 

In  canning  apples,  psars,  peaches,  etc.,  do  not  boil 
the  fruit  longer  than  is  necessary  to  heat  it  thor- 
oughly through,  as  too  much  boiling  destroys  its 
flavor. 

Catsup. 

One  half  bushel  skimmed  tomatoes,  one  quart  good 
vinegar,  one  pound  salt,  one-quarter  pound  black 
pepper,  one  ounce  cayenne  pepper,  one-quarter  pound 
mustard,  one-quarter  pound  whole  cloves,  twenty 
cloves  of  garlic  cut  fine,  six  good  onions  cut  fine,  two 
pounds  brown  sugar,  one  handful  of  peach  leaves  ;  boil 
this  mass  three  hours,  stirring  all  the  time  ;  when  cool 
strain  through  a  sieve  and  bottle. 

Maccaroni  a  La  Creme. 

Cook  maccaroni  ten  minutes  in  boiling  water,  drain, 
add  one  cup  milk  and  a  little  salt,  cook  till  tender  in 
another  pan  ;  bring  to  boil  a  cup  of  milk,  thicken  with 
one  teaspoon  flour,  stir  in  one  tablespoon  butter,  and 
last  one  egg;  when  thick  pour  over  maccaroni,  and 
serve  with  grated  cheese. 

Potato  Souffle. 

Pass  through  sieve  four  large  boiled  potatoes,  and 
add  one-half  cup  milk,  scalded,  one  tablespoon  butter, 
salt  and  oepper ;  beat  to  cream  adding  one  at  a  time 
the  yolks"  of  four  eggs,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the 
whites  and  beat  stiff;  add  them  to  the  mixture,  beat- 
ing as  little  as  possible;  bake  in  a  well -buttered  dish 
in  quick  oven  and  serve  hot. 

Saratoga  Potatoes. 

Peel  as  many  potatoes  as  yon  wish,  shave  into  thin 
slices  and  let  stand  a  half  hour  in  cold  water,  take 
them  out  and  drain   perfectly  dry,  have  ready  a  pan 


102 

of  hot  lard,  into  which  drop  a  few  at  a  time,  take  them 
out  with  a  skimmer  when  brown,  sprinkle  a  little  salt 
over  them,  serve  hot. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

One-half  bushel  of  tomatoes  cut  in  one-half  and  boil 
soft  and  put  through  a  sieve,  salt,  red  and  black  pep- 
per to  taste,  five  cents  worth  of  cinnamon,  one-half 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  cider  vinegar  and  a 
pint  of  brandy  ;  boil  one-half  hour  after  spices  are  in, 
then  bottle  hot  and  cork  tight. 

To  Boil  Corn  on  the  Ear. 

Have  the  water  boiling,  then  drop  the  corn  in  and 
boil  a  few  minutes. 


WINES. 


Blackberry  Wine. 

Make  same  as  grape  wine. 

Currant  Wine. 

Mash  the  currants  and  leave  stand  same  as  grapes, 
then  press  out  the  juice,  and  to  two  quarts  and  a  pint 
of  water  take  one  quart  and  a  pint  of  juice,  two 
pounds  sugar,  let  ferment  same  as  other  wines,  filling 
up  with  sweetened  water  as  it  works  out  at  the  bung, 
after  fermentation  ceases  bung  it  up,  let  stand  three 
months,  rack  it  off,  rinse  out  your  keg,  put  back 
again. 

Crab  Apple  Wine. 

Is  made  same  as  quince  wine. 

Cider  Vinegar. 

After  cider  has  become  too  sour  for  use  set  it  in  a 
warm  place,  put  to  it  occasionally  the  rinsing  of  the 
sugar  basin  or  molasses  jug  and  any  remains  of  ale  or 
cold  tea,  let  it  remain  with  the  bung  open  and  you 
will  soon  have  the  best  of  vinegar. 


103 

Cronk  Beer. 
Take  a  small  handful  of  hops,  boil  and  strain,  then 
take  five  gallons  luke  warm  water,  three  pounds 
white  sugar,  half  pint  of  yeast,  mix  together,  flavor 
with  sassafras  and  wintergreen,  mixed;  a  tablespoon- 
ful  is  sufficient  for  this  quantity  ;  leave  it  stand  in  a 
warm  place  twelve  or  fifteen  hours,  corked  shut,  then 
bottle  for  use,  and  tie  the  corks  down. 

Elderberry  Wine. 
Pick  out  and  mash  your  elderberries  same  as  the 
grapes,  letting  them  stand  three  days,  have  your 
berries  right  ripe,  after  they  have  stood  in  the  tub 
mashed  for  three  days  press  the  juice  out  and  throw 
the  pulp  away,  leave  the  juice  stand  three  days  more, 
stirring  it  freely,  keep  it  covered ;  at  the  end  of  three 
days  take  one  quart  juice  and  two  quarts  and  a  pint 
of  water,  two  pounds  sugar,  put  all  in  a  keg  and  let 
it  ferment,  filling  it  up  with  sweetened  water ;  after 
it  has  ceased  to  ferment  take  half  teaspoonf ul  ground 
cloves  and  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon  to  every  gallon 
of  the  wine  ;  you  must  judge  yourself  how  much  water 
it  will  take,  as  it  requires  more  when  you  have  much 
wine ;  this  spice  is  to  be  boiled  in  a  bag,  and  then  the 
water  it  was  boiled  in  put  in  your  keg,  then  close  it 
up  four  months,  then  rack  it  off,  rinse  out  the  keg 
and  put  the  wine  back  again  or  bottle  it. 

Grape  Wine. 
Pick  your  grapes  in  a  tub  and  with  a  masher  mash 
them  well  night  and  morning  for  three  days,  then 
take  a  wine  press  and  squeeze  out  the  juice  into  a 
tub,  letting  it  stand  three  more  days,  stirring  it  every 
night  and  morning,  keeping  it  covered ;  take  the 
pulp,  putting  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water  on  it,  ac- 
cording to  the  amount  of  pulp  you  have,  leave  it  stand 
three  days,  stirring  it  frequently,  then  press  it  into 
the  first  juice  you  have  pressed  out,  then  take  one 
quart  juice,  two  quarts  water,  one  pound  soft  sugar, 
put  into  a  keg  to  ferment,  keeping  it  filled  up  with 
sweet  water;  if  it  does  not  fill  the  keg  lay  it  to  one 
side,  so  that  the  dregs  can  work  off. 


104 

Peach  Wine. 

Have  good,  ripe  peaches,  cut  them  in  two,  taking 
out  the  seeds,  mash  them  fine,  press  the  juice  out  as 
soon  as  they  are  mashed,  then  take  two  quarts  juice, 
two  quarts  water,  one  pound  sugar,  put  into  a  jug  or 
keg,  leaving  it  ferment,  filling  up  as  it  sloughs  off 
with  sweetened  water  ;  after  it  has  fermented  bung  it 
up,  let  it  stand  three  months,  rack  it  off  and  then  to 
every  gallon  wine  add  half  gill  rum. 

Premium  Cider. 

To  make  one  gallon,  take  a  pound  brown  sugar, 
half  ounce  tartaric  acid  ;  put  on  one  quart  luke  warm 
water  too  dissolve  the  sugar  and  acid,  then  add  two 
tablespoonsful  brewer's  yeast,  or  double  quantity  of 
home  made  yeast ;  put  all  together  in  a  gallon  jug, 
and  shake  it  well;  then  fill  it  up  with  lukewarm 
water,  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place,  uncovered,  until 
the  yeast  is  worked  off,  and  it  is  fit  for  use. 

Quince  Wine. 

Grind  the  quinces,  press  out  the  juice,  then  take 
one  quart  and  a  pint  of  juice,  two  quarts  water  and 
a  pound  and  half  sugar,  put  all  in  a  jug  or  keg  and 
let  it  ferment;  this  is  one  gallon;  now  to  every  gal- 
lon put  one  gill  rum,  half  teaspoonful  cloves  and  one 
teaspoonful  cinnamon,  put  in  a  bag  and  boil  in  water 
sufficient  to  boil  this  in,  after  it  is  boiled  and  becomes 
cold  pour  it  with  the  rum  into  the  wine  and  bung  it 
shut,  let  stand  four  months,  then  rack  Jt  off;  it  is 
then  ready  for  bottling. 

Raspberry  Wine. 

Made  same  as  grape. 

Rhubarb  Wine. 

Grind  the  rhubarb  same  as  quinces,  press  out  the 
juice,  then  take  one  quart  and  a  pint  juice,  two 
quarts  and  a  pint  of  water,  and  one  and  a  half  pounds 
sugar,  put   in   a  jug   and  let  it  ferment;  after  it  has 


105 

fermented  take  half  teaspoonful  cloves  and   one   tea 
spoonful    cinnamon    and  boil  it ;  this  is  for  every  gal- 
lon ;  pour  it  in,  bung  it  up,  let  it  stand  four  months, 
rack  it  off ;  it  is  then  ready  for  bottline:. 

Sour  Cherry  Wine. 

Is  made  same  as  currant  wine. 

Tomato  Wine. 

Take  ripe,  fresh  tomatoes,  mash  very  fine,  strain 
through  a  sieve,  sweeten  with  sugar  to  suit  the  taste, 
set  it  away  in  an  earthen  or  stone  jug,  leaving  a  small 
hole  for  the  refuse  to  work  off  while  fermenting: 
when  it  is  done  fermenting  it  will  become  pure  and 
clear,  then  bottle  and  cork  tignt  A  little  salt  im- 
proves its  flavor  ;  age  improves  it. 

Tomato  Wine. 

Cut  and  mash  real  ripe  tomatoes,  let  stand  one  day, 
then  press  out  the  juice  and  to  two  quarts  juice  take 
same  of  water  and  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar, 
put  in  a  keg  and  let  it  ferment ;  after  it  has  fermented 
boil  half  teaspoonful  cloves  and  two  teaspoonsful  cin- 
namon and  half  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg  to  every 
gallon;  always  remember  to  put  the  boiled  ingredi- 
ents in  after  they  have  become  cold. 

Vinegar. 

Forty  gallons  soft  water,  six  quarts  cheap  molasses, 
and  six  pounds  acetic  acid,  put  it  in  a  barrel  (an  old 
vinegar  barrel  is  best),  and  let  it  stand  from  three  to 
ten  weeks,  stirring  occasionally;  add  a  little  mother 
of  old  vinegar  if  convenient ;  age  improves  it. 


Entered  According  to  Act  of  Congress 

on  the  Twelfth  Day  of  April,  1893,  by  Jacob  F.  Landis, 

with  the  Librarian  of  Congress  at  Washington,  D.  C. 


(106) 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


A. 

Pane. 

A  good  dish 89 

Allentown  cake 7 

Almond  cake    „ 6 

American  toast 89 

American  writing  ink 72 

Angel  cake 6 

Angels  on  horseback  32 

Artificial  honey 72 

Apoplexy,  cure  for, 59 

Asthma,  cure  for 65 

Asthma   44 

Asthma,  cure  for   48 

Asparagus  soup .  97 

Apple  custard  pies    ° 84 

Apple  dumplings 88 

Apple  layer  7 

Apple  pie    ° 84 

Apple  snow   89 

Apple  jack,  or  coaka 88 

Apple  ice 29 

Apple  Jonathan 88 

Apple  pudding    89 

B. 

Brown  bread 1 

Brown  beef  soup » 98 

Breakfast  cake    1 

Bread  cake    7 

Boston  brown  bread    1 

Berwick  sponge 7 

Breakfast  puffs  1 

Broiled  oysters    40 

Burns,  cure  for ■ 45 

Bleeding  piles 44  • 

Bed  bugs,  to  drive  away   78 

Bed  bug  poison   « 72 

Bed  bugs,  another  poison  for 72 

Baked  salt  codfish 39 

Blood  stopping    44 

Beefsteak  and  onions 33 

Butter  taffy 23 

Baked  eggs    32 

Broiled  oysters    > 40 

Bloody  flux,  cure  for  the 48 

(  107  ) 


108 

Page. 

Butter  scotch,  No.  2 ...  23 

Bite  of  a  mad  dog,  cure  for 59 

Bronchitis 44 

Blind,  how  to  prevent  horses  from  going   70 

Brooms,  how  to  manage, 75 

Bread  pudding    90 

Bots,  cure  for 63 

Butter,  how  to  cure 80 

Blackberry  wine    102 

Bunions,  cure  for 53 

Burns,  cure  for  57 

Boils  or  carbuncles,  cure  for 46 

Baked  white  fish 40 

Bronchitis,  cure  for 52 

Baked  maccaroni  100 

Beverly  cake    8 

Best  cake 8 

Bunions,  cure  for    63 

Bread  omelet  89 

Burns,  remedy  for 68 

Butter  scotch.  No.  1 'Zi 

Baldness,  cure  for 64 

Burns  and  sores,  cure  for 58 

Bunions,  cure  for — 62 

Brine  that  preserves  butter  a  year 73 

Burns,  cure  for  58 

C. 

Clam  chowder   40 

Corn  salve 48 

Cream  cabbage    100 

Cronk  beer    103 

Currant  wine   102 

Chow  chow    80 

Corn,  to  boil  on  the  ear  102 

Cucumber  pickles 81 

Croup,  cure  for .......  55 

Coffee  bavarian  cream    29 

Cream  candies 24 

Chocolate  mange  . .  29 

Chocolate  caromels 25 

Cocoanut  cream  candy  24 

Chocolate  candy 24 

Chocolate  caromels,  No.  2 24 

Cream  puffs    11 

Cupcake 12 

Chocolate  caromels,  No.  1 24 

Corn  bread 1 

Cocoanut  cake 11 

Cream  cake  11 

Crullers   11 

Chocolate  cake    10 

Cream  pies    85 

Corn  starch  cake    ...  10 


109 

Page. 

Cold  tomato  catsup  81 

Cupcake 10 

Cancer,  cure  for     47 

Colic    47 

Cucumber  pickles 80 

Chocolate  pie   85 

Corn  cakes     j  1 

Chocolate  pudding    90 

Coughs  and  colds 47 

Custard  cake    10 

Cora  pone  85 

Cream  of  bean  soup     98 

Cookies 11 

Consomme  royal 98 

Cloth,  how  to  remove  tar  from 75 

Colds,  cure  for     60 

Colds  and  diarrhoea,  cure  for 57 

Complexion  pomatum    ...  52 

Cement  for  glass    73 

Constipation,  cure  tor 61 

Chicken  cholera,  cure  for 62 

Chronic  diarrhoea  53 

Cough  or  lung  diseases,  cure  for 50 

Clean  brass 79 

Cocoanut  pudding 90 

Chocolate  creams  25 

Croup,  cure  for    54 

Cholera,  cure  for   55 

Corns  and  bunions,  cure  for  \ 54 

Cockroach  poison 73 

Chicken  cholera 54 

Corns  and  bunions,  cure  for 46 

Catarrh    47 

Croup 47 

Constipation     52 

Cubeb  berries  for  catarrh 46 

Cough,  a  remedy  to  cure  the 44 

Croup    52 

Cough  in  horses 45 

Colic 52 

Clam  soup „ 41 

Colic,  cure  for 55 

Carbuncles  and  boils,  cure  for  46 

Cramp,  cure  for 45 

Cholera  remedy 50 

Cold,  certain  cure  for  a 47 

Catarrh    45 

Chicken  gapes,  cure  for  62 

Caramel  cake  •  •  8 

Colic  in  children,  a  cure  for  the    44 

Cold  on  the  chest    45 

Corn  soup 98 

Cream  cookies 10 

Carpet,  to  remove  ink  from    76 

Cholera  and  diarrhoea,  cure  for 64 


110 

Page. 

Carbuncles  and  felons,  cure  for    49 

Coffeejelly 29 

Clean  silk    79 

Chili  sauce 80 

Cranberry  rolls   91 

Clam  fritters 40 

Cream  biscuit 2 

Cider  vinegar   102 

Corns,  cure  for   63 

Custard  pudding,  90 

Corn  muffins.  No.  1   2 

Corn  muffins.  No.  2   2 

Cocoanut  cake 9 

Cream  puffs  10 

Corn  starch  cake  with  fig  filling  10 

Chocolate  ice  cream 29 

Corn  starch  cake    9 

Chili  sauce 81 

Cocoanut  pie 85 

Composition  cake 9 

Cocoanut  cake    9 

Chocolate  layer  cake  8 

Corn  cakes 2 

Coffee  cake    9 

Chocolate  cake   8 

Caroline  cake  8 

Cream  puffs 91 

Croquettes 36 

Chickenpie   33 

Charlotte  russe   91 

Canning  101 

Corn  starch  pudding    '. 91 

Crab  apple  wine 102 

Catsup 101 

Croquettes  with  green  peas .-.      •  100 


Doughnuts    12 

Daisy  hill  cake    12 

Drill  holes  in  glass 79 

Diphtheria,  cure  for    63 

Distemper,  cure  for G3 

Dominie's  soft  soap 78 

Drive  flies  from  a  room 79 

Destroy  red  spiders 79 

Dayton  cake      12 

Dropsy 56 

Dyspepsia  bitters 57 

Diphtheria,  cure  for > . 57 

Dog  bite,  how  to  cure  a    69 

Diphtheria,  cure  for    58 

Dandruff  cure  for    64 

Diarrhoea,  cure  for 61 

Dropsy,  a  never-failing  cure  for 43 


Ill 

Page. 

Diphtheria 56 

Dover  cake    13 

Dried  apple  cake   12 

Diarrhoea,  cure  for   49 

Dyspepsia  56 

Doughnuts,  No.  2  12 

Deviled  clams 41 

Dysentary,  cure  for 53 

Dropsy,  cure  for 53 

Dyspepsia,  cure  for 52 

Dropsy,  certain  cure  for 50 

Delicate  cake  12 

Dyspepsia,  cure  for 51 

Dyspepsia  or  soreness  of  the  breast,  cure  for  ...  55 

Drive  mosquitoes  from  a  room 75 

Diphtheria,  prevention  of    68 

E 

Egg  rolls 2 

English  walnut  cream ^5 

Everton  ice  cream  candy 25 

Erysipelas,  cure  for » 60 

Eczema  or  scald  head,cure  for 54 

Eruptions,  pimples,  &c,  certain  cure  for 45 

Erysipelas,  cure  for 57 

Earache,  cure  for 61 

Extirpate  warts,  how  to <0 

Exterminate  bed  bugs   <9 

Furniture,  how  to  clean    77 

English  plum  puddings « »* 

Elderberry  wine l[)6 

F. 

Fruit  pudding 92 

Fig  pudding »* 

Fishes,  how  to  catch  many 77 

Fish,  how  to  catch 75 

Fish,  No.  2,  how  to  catch 75 

Fruit  or  berry  pudding 92 

Fresh  eggs,  how  to  raise  a  good  supply  of  ** 

Fruit  trees,  how  to  remove  insects  from <  4 

Furniture  polish » 73 

Fever  and  ague,  remedy  for °9 

Fevers,  in  cases  of £7 

Freckles  and  tan,  how  to  remove  •  •  •  ' u 

Felon,  cure  for  °* 

Felon  or  catarrh,  cure  for °» 

Fits,  cure  for    ™> 

Face  powder    ,5; 

Face  powder,  No.  2 °* 

Felon,  relief  for |>i 

Freckles,  cure  for  •. £° 

Frozen  hands  or  feet,  cure  for »* 

Felon,  cure  for M 


112 

Page. 

Fever  and  ague,  cure  for 49 

Felon  and  catarrh  in  the  hand,  cure  for 48 

Fruitpuffs  93 

Fried  tomatoes     33 

Filling  for  cream  puffs  14 

French  vanilla  cream fc5 

Fricaseed  oysters  41 

Frizzled  ham 33 

Fruit  jelly 30 

Fig-  cake 13 

Fruitcake 13 

Florence  puffs 2 

Fomentation , 57 

Fancy  cake 13 

Fruit  cake 13 

G. 

Green  corn  patties    15 

Ginger  cookies 15 

German  puffs  93 

Grape  wine   —  103 

Gravel,  or  Bright's  disease  65 

Ginger  cakes.... 15 

Graham  pudding  93 

Golden  ointment    74 

Green  corn  cakes  37 

Green  tomato  pickles 81 

Gloves,  how  to  clean   .  74 

Gravel  in  horses 65 

Gold  and  silver  cake 14 

Ginger  cake 15 

Ginger  snaps    14 

German  coffee  cake 15 

Green  corn  pudding 93 

Gilt  frames,  how  to  renew   74 

Gingersnaps 15 

Grip,  cure  for  the 47 

Game,  how  to  catch 75 

Gold  loaf  cake 14 

Graham  bread  - . «. 3 

Graham  gems,  No.  1 — 3 

Graham  gems,  No.  2...     3 

Gingerbread 3 

Ginger  bread  No.  2   3 

H. 

Hints  to  cake  bakers  — 6 

Hints  on  confectionery 23 

How  to  keep  a  horse  healthy  and  his  blood  in  order    66 

Horehound  candy 26 

Hollandaise  sauce  for  fish 41 

Heaves  in  horses,  cure  for   51 

Hiccoughs,  cure  for 53 

Hysterics,  cure  for  51 

Hermits •  ■  16 


113 

Hickory  nut  cake .a°\Q 

Headache  and  rheumatism,  cure  for 64 

Heavy  colds,  cure  for 63 

Hot  water  sponge  cake 16 

Horse  powder     66 

Hair  renewer  66 

Higdom    82 

Headache  and  neuralgic  pains,  cure  for 60 

I. 

Ivory  harness  polish 75 

Ink  eradicator 76 

Icing  for  cakes 17 

Indian  pudding 93 

Ice  cream 30 

Ice  cream  candy 26 

Ice  cream,  how  to  make 26 

Ingrowing  nails 66 

Indian  steam  loaf,  o 4 

Icing  for  cake....^..   16 

Tndian  salve 66 

Inward  bleeding  piles,  cure  for 58 

Ice  cream  cake 16 

J. 

Jackson's  itch  ointment 67 

Jumbles 17 

Jenny  Lind 4 

Jelly  cake 17 

K. 

Keep  flies  off  gilt  frames 80 

Kidney  disease,  cure  for 62 

L. 

Lemon  jelly. . .  . ; * 31 

Lunch  dish 37 

Lemon  taffy -  26 

Lemon  milk  sherbet 31 

Lice  in  vines 74 

Lemon  ice 30 

Lung  fever  in  horses,  cure  for  51 

Lock-jaw,  cure  for 52 

Lemon  jelly  cake 17 

Lemon  cake 17 

Lemon  maccaroons 26 

Lock-jaw,  cure  for j|4 

Lemon  custard <* 

Lung  disease,  relief  for ....  <jl 

Lemon  pies °Si 

Lotion  for  sunburn,  freckles,  &c b7 

8 


114 

M. 

Marble  cholocate  cake   17 

Molasses  spice  cake    18 

Molasses  cake    18 

Molasses  candy   27 

Minnehaha  cake 18 

Mince  pie    87 

Mustard  pickles 82 

Maccaroni  a  la  creme 101 

Mock  mince  pie 86 

Mutton  soup 99 

Mahogany  stains    76 

Malarial  fever,  cure  for 54 

Mend  China,  how  to 74 

Moths,  a  preventive  of  72 

Malarial  fever,  cure  for 51 

Marguerite  eggs 33 

Mending  rubber  goods   . . .   73 

Malaria,  cure  for 53 

Mock  duck 33 

Molasses  candy ...  27 

Middlesex  cake   : 18 

Malarial  fever,  cure  for 62 

Molasses  cake  18 

Muffins,  No.  1    4 

Muffins,  No.  2   4 

N. 

Neuralgia  or  toothache 67 

Neuralgia  67 

Noodle  soup 99 

Nineoil    67 

Nerve  ointment 67 

Nut  candy 27 

O. 

Orange  marmalade 31 

Oyster  croquettes 42 

Omelet  with  chopped  ham  34 

Orange  cake 19 

Omelet 34 

Orange  puddings   94 

Oyster  omelet « 42 

Overcome  by  smoke,  how  to  prevent  being 70 

Oyster  soup* 42 

P. 

Poisonous  bites,  how  to  treat... 65 

Pork  cake 19 

Paralytic  stroke,  cure  for  58 

Parker  rolls 4 

Pop-overs 19 


115 

„         .  . ,  Page. 

Premium  cider 104 

Potato  soup  99 

Pickled  oysters 82 

Prevent  pumps  from  freezing 79 

Potato  cream 94 

Pie  plant  pie 87 

Preserve  eggs  for  six  months  to  one  year 77 

Plum  pudding 94 

Potato  souffle 101 

Prune  pudding 94 

Peach  pie 87 

Pickled  eggs  and  beets 82 

Piles,  cure  for 51 

Peach  wine 104 

Prevent  turners'  wood  splitting 77 

Physic  for  a  horse 68 

Pearl  water  for  the  complexion 68 

Pineapple  cake 19 

Pineapple  pie 87 

Poison,  cure  for .  46 

Pressed  turkey 37 

Piles,  cure  for  50 

Piles,  cure  for 55 

Popped  corn 27 

Pancakes 19 

Popcorn  candy.. 27 

Pop  corn  balls 27 

Poison,  how  to  take  out 70 

Pain  con querer 71 

Poison,  cure  for 61 

Piles,  cure  for 63 

Pain  in  the  side  and  breast 63 

Pearl  water  for  the  face 68 

Pennyroyal  and  potash 68 

Piles,  cure  for 58 

Pains  or  headache,  cure  for 58 

Pot  pie— chicken,  veal  or  lamb 34 

Potted  herring 42 

Pineapple  sherbet 31 

Peanut  candy 25 

Q. 

Quinsy,  cure  for •. 63 

Quality  crest  cake 19 

Quince  wine 101 

Quick  soup  with  canned  goods 99 

R. 

Rhubarb  wine 104 

Raisin  pie 87 

Raspberry  wine 104 

Rice  pudding 94 

Remove  fruit  spots  from  cotton  goods 79 

Raw  hides,  how  to  tan 78 

Rheumatism,  cure  for    50 


116 

Page. 

Rheumatism,  cure  for 61 

Rickets,  cure  for 62 

Rupture  salve  69 

Roman  punch 31 

Roast  beef  with  Yorkshire  pudding 34 

Royal  fruit  cake 20 

Rheumatism,  cure  for 48 

Railroad  cake 20 

Rheumatism,  cure  for 62 

Rolled  jell  cake 20 

Rheumatism,  cure  for 69 

Raised  doughnuts .  20 

Rheumatism,  cure  for 49 

Rheumatism,  headache  and  neuralgia,  cure  for 64 

S. 

Sally  lunn  4 

Sour  cherry  wine  105 

Steamed  pudding  95 

Stop  bleeding,  how  to 66 

Sore  eyes,  cure  for   51 

Saratoga  potatoes 101 

Soup  stock 99 

Suet  pudding   95 

Salad  dressings   97 

Salads  96 

Strawberry  tapioca 95 

Salem  pudding 94 

Spiced  peaches    . .  83 

Skins,  how  to  tan 78 

Silver  ware,  cleaning 73 

Soda  cream   = 76 

String  beans,  how  to  pickle 83 

Sores  of  long  standing,  how  to  cure  70 

Stufifed  bell  peppers 83 

Spiced  apples  83 

Scrofula  or  sore  head,  cure  for 49 

Sweet  pickles  82 

Sand  tarts 21 

Sauces 95 

Sugar  crumb  pie   88 

Stain  wood  the  color  of  walnut     77 

Spiced  tomatoes 82 

Sweet  oil,  how  to  purify   66 

Sore  throat 69 

Short  winded  horse,  cure  for  a 60 

Silver  wash  76 

Sore  mouth,  cure  for  a  50 

Sprinkling  plants 73 

Sore  throat  and  mouth 69 

Stop  bleeding,  how  to    . 69 

Swollen  feet  and  pains  of  the  skin,  cure  for 59 

Sores,  cure  for 48 

Staggers,  cure  for 51 

Sting  of  a  bee  or  wasp,  cure  for  the 45 


117 

Page. 

Sugar  cookies ....... .............. ,     ...   20 

Sugar  biscuit   5 

Sur  le  plat 35 

Sick  stomach,  cure  for  59 

Swollen  neck,  cure  for 60 

Stifle  slipp'd  horse,  cure  for  a 60 

Scalloped  oysters 43 

Splendid  eye  water 43 

Scalloped  fish 37 

Sauces 34 

Scalloped  oysters 43 

Spanish  sugar  cake 21 

Salmon  in  mold 42 

Snow  custard 31 

Scotch  butter  candy 28 

Sprains  or  backache,  cure  for 46 

Sponge  gingerbread 5 

Sunshine  cake 21 

Sponge  cake 21 

Soft  gingerbread 5 

Surprise  cake 22 

Sugar  candy 27 

Sugar  cake « 22 

Soft  gingerbread 5 

Striped  cake 20 

Spanish  ginger  cake 21 

Spanish  cream 32 

Sandwiches , . . , , , , , , 38 

T. 

Tomato  soup 100 

Tomato  hash 39 

Tomatocatsup 102 

Tomato  wine 105 

Taylor  cake  22 

Toast 38 

Toothache,  cure  for 59 

Tomato  soy   •. 84 

Tapioca  and  Indian  pudding 95 

Tape  worms  or  seatworms,  cure  for 53 

Tooth  powder 78 

Tramping  on  a  nail,  cure  for 48 

Tetter  ointmeut 70 

Toothache,  cure  for 60 

Tetter,  cure  for  58 

Tapioca  pudding    96 

Tomato  catsup    84 

Tape  worm  and  small  worms,  cure  for 65 

V. 

Vinegar  , 105 

Veal  loaf 35 

Veal  cake  (a  dish  for  a  picnic)   3"> 

Veal  turnover 39 


118 

Page . 

Velvet  cream   32 

Vinegar  candy -. 38 

Vanilla  taffy 29 

Variety  cake 32 

Veal  soup  100 

W. 

White  swelling,  cure  for 54 

Weak  eyes 71 

Worms,  cure  for 60 

Whooping  cough,  a  never-failing  cure  for   44 

Welsh  rarebit  39 

Whitetaffy    28 

White  mountain  cake 33 

Walnut  maccaroons 28 

Walnut  creams   28 

Waffles 5 

Waffles 6 

When  a  horse  does  not  eat 71 

Walnut  cake    . 22 

Whooping  cough  cure    71 

White  swelling,  cure  for  49 

Washington  cake 22 

Wheat  gems & 

White  swelling,  cure  for  55 

Wormtea  .  7C 

Wheat  muffins 6 

Y. 

Yellow  water,  cure  for 51 


OCT 


. 

V 

<, 

++    V* 


1  o  * 

\ 

\p 


V  ' 


•    ^ 


\> 


^    v^ 


V 


v^ 


-f. 


.Oo 


^.<y 


>    ^n 


#  % 


.  .% 


^    >l 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  013  514  840  4 


