Historic,  archived  document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


The  Yearbook 

of  Agriculture 

1969 


u 


■ 


\  %  * 


litiBu 


-^■^^^U^H 


V 


*n^ 


■ 


FOOD  FOR  US  ALL 

The  Yearbook  of  Agriculture  1969 


UNITED  STATES 
GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 

For  Sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents 
Washington,  D.C.  20402  -  Price  $3.50 


Food  for  us  all  starts  with  3  million  farmers  who  produce  the  beef  and  other  foods 
we  Americans  consume  at  the  rate  of  nearly  6,000  pounds  a  year  for  a  family  of 
four.  About  half  of  the  total    land   area   in  the  50  States   is  devoted  to  farming. 


Itfc 


,    ■    ?^:  i  VMM 

HI 


Mechanization — as  in  wheat  harvesting,  above — plus  other 
modern  methods  from  farm  to  market  help  bring  us  our  food 
for  a  smaller  proportion  of  take-home  pay  than  in  any  other 
country.  Our  highly  efficient  farming  results  in  one  farm 
worker  being  able  to  supply    products  for  some  43  people. 


Potatoes  are  harvested  mechanically  in  Michigan,  above.  A  Florida 
factory  in  the  field  or  "mule  train,"  below,  spans  24  rows  of  celery 
at  one  time  and  harvests  more  than  three  acres  a  day.  The  celery  is 
also  cleaned  and  crated,  and  can  be  shipped  direct  from  the  field. 


More  than  23  million  people,  like  this  cannery  worker,  are  employed  in  agribusiness — 
30  percent  of  our  work  force.  Food  processing  often  calls  for  complex  machinery. 
The  overhead  system  pictured  here  automatically  feeds  cans  into  filling  machines. 


mr-r'J/ 


Our  country  is  the  world's  biggest  exporter  of  farm  products,  with 
American  hot  dogs  even  becoming  a  popular  new  food  in  Japan, 
above,  where  they  are  often  sold  by  street  vendors  from  small 
motorized  stands.  U.S.  wheat  grower  groups,  working  with  USDA, 
introduced  the  hot  dog  to  Japan.  The  photos  below  show  grain 
inspection  in  Oregon,  at  left,  and  processing  of  bing  cherries. 


School  milk,  right,  and  school 
lunch  as  in  Georgia,  below,  are 
two  of  many  programs  by  which 
our  nation  improves  nutrition 
among  children   and   the   poor. 


^^♦•' 


to- 


Providing  food  for  the  millions  of  us  who 
eat  away  from  home  each  day  is  a  major 
undertaking.  At  top,  a  chef  for  a  contract 
food  management  firm  prepares  ham 
steaks  garnished  with  pineapple  slice  and 
red  cherry.  Above,  desserts  for  vending 
machines  are  evaluated  by  a  taste  panel 
for  appearance,  flavor,  and  consistency. 


A  homemaker  could  prepare  a  different  meat  dish  every  day,  so  many 
kinds  and  cuts  of  meat  are  available.  Meat  and  poultry  prepared  in 
plants  that  ship  into  other  States  must  be  Federally  inspected,  and 
inspection  is  being  extended  to  plants  operating  wholly  within  a  State. 


Ready-to-eat  chickens,  on  left,  are 
cooked  for  sale  in  supermarkets. 
Infrared  cabinets  are  used  to  keep 
the  chicken  warm  for  the  customer. 
Below,  sugar  'n'  spice  glazed  ham. 
USDA  offers  a  voluntary  meat  and 
poultry  grading  service  which  aids 
the  housewife  in  her  food  shopping. 


Eggs  are  a  remarkable  storehouse  of  needed  nutrients.  They  can  play  a 
main-dish  role  in  breakfast  or  brunch,  as  in  top  photo.  Candling,  above, 
determines  an  egg's  interior  quality  without  breaking  the  shell.  USDA 
grades  eggs  under  a  voluntary  program.  There  are  three  consumer  grades. 


Most  of  us  enjoy  milk  or  dairy 
products  every  day.  Cheese, 
above,  has  countless  forms — 
there  are  over  400  varieties  of 
natural  cheeses  alone.  Milk 
goes  well  with  snacks,  left,  and 
other  meals.  Butter,  right,  is 
one  of  the  oldest  of  our  foods. 


More  than  240  species  of  fish 
and  shellfish  are  sold.  They 
make  tasty  soups  from  the  sea, 
at  right,  and  countless  other 
dishes.  The  U.S.  Department  of 
the  Interior  provides  voluntary 
inspection  of  seafood,  and  it 
grades  15  processed  products. 


Vegetables,  top,  come  in  many  colors  and  textures, 
and  shopping  for  them  can  be  a  delight  if  you  know 
what  to  look  for.  Above,  a  model  serves  tossed  salad. 


__    _.  ;  .< .  _    — aMMgpaNa 


•'*?:; 


Vegetable  display  at  the  left  includes  a 
skillet  readied  for  cooking  Ratatouille — 
zucchini,  eggplant,  tomatoes,  onions, 
and  green  pepper.  Above,  vegetables  are 
served  with  cream  sauce,  egg  garnish. 


Fruit  is  another  major  food  class.  Below, 
Wisconsin  cranberry  beds  are  flooded 
to  help  in  machine  picking.  Newly  picked 
cranberries  are  floated  to  edge  of  beds 
in  "boats."  Right,  cranberries  get  bath. 


One  of  the  biggest  bonuses  of  fruit  is  that  it  is  ready  to  serve  in  any  of  its  forms 
with  little  or  no  preparation — as  in  completing  the  Ring-A-Round  Strawberry  Dessert 
above.  At  upper  right,  apples  are  tested  in  a  USDA  laboratory.  At  right,  fruit 
and  other  food  products  are  inspected  after  seizure  at  a  New  York  international 
airport  to  prevent  any  foreign  food  pests  from  hitchhiking  into  the  United  States. 


wm 


Cereal  grains  have  been  one  of  man's  most  important  food  plants 
since  history  began.  Wheat,  lower  left,  growing  in  Washington  State, 
is  most  widely  cultivated  of  these  grains.  Baked  delicacies,  upper 
left,  include  cranberry-orange  bread,  muffins,  a  coffeecake  with 
broiled  coconut  topping,  Florida  tea  ring.  Ready-to-eat  cereal, 
above,  is  longtime  breakfast  favorite  with  millions  of  Americans. 


Desserts — from  cakes  to  crepes — are 
some  of  the  sweetest  things  in  life. 
Citrus  desserts  are  featured  at  far  left. 
Peaches  are  another  dessert  favorite. 
Peach   packing  is  pictured  at  the  left. 


Nuts  give  rich  flavor,  contrast  in  texture,  and  a  pleasing  garnish  to  other  foods. 
Above,  peanut  products  are  used  with  salad,  barbecue  sauce,  dip,  soup,  and  dessert. 


Pickles,  olives,  and  relishes  are  good  by  themselves,  but  they  also  make  almost 
any  food  taste  better.  Temptingly  arrayed  at  top,  they  join  deviled  eggs,  chicken 
salad  and  other  sandwiches — good  for  a  meal  or  snack — in  the  photo  just  above. 


Milk  and  a  fruit-  or  chocolate-flavored  mix  are  the  base  for  these  four 
refreshing  "instant"  beverages  surrounding  a  strawberry  mint  drink. 


A  basic  meal  can  be  a  thing  of  beauty  to  eye  and  palate,  as  in  the  photo  above. 
The  choice  of  fruits  and  vegetables  spells  the  difference  in  color,  texture,  and 
variety  in  the  household  menu.  Note  how  shapes  of  the  foods  complement  each  other. 


i 

« 

r 

„, 

5L- 

■  ■ 

■  •- 1 

5 

? 

Patio  cooking  is  fun  time  for  teens,  above,  with  steak  on  the 
grill.  Outdoor  cookery  has  become  a  way  of  life  for  most  Americans, 
in  fact.  A  flavorsome  California  shish  kabob  sizzles  at  upper  right. 
Chicken  over  the  coals,  lower  right,  tempts  the  taste  buds.  One 
secret  of  successful  barbecuing  is  a  solid  bed  of  glowing  coals. 


'>* 


*$•"& 


©    ♦ 


«♦♦♦♦♦»»» 


o       ••       c> 


■       I       ..•• 


Foreword 

CLIFFORD  M.  HARDIN 
Secretary  of  Agriculture 


FOOD  FOR  US  ALL,  the  title  of  this  Yearbook,  means  enough  food — and  the 
right  food — for  every  American. 

In  a  nation  with  the  greatest  food  production  capacity  ever  achieved — an 
ability  in  fact  to  produce  considerably  more  than  domestic  and  foreign  markets 
can  absorb — one  might  assume  that  the  goal  of  food  for  us  all  would  long  since 
have  been  realized.  Yet,  it  has  not. 

•  There  is  still  hunger  in  the  midst  of  national  plenty.  Poverty-caused 
malnutrition  is  far  more  widespread  than  we  previously  had  thought. 

•  Undernutrition,  caused  by  ignorance  or  neglect,  is  a  common  fact  of 
American  life.  There  are  still  great  gaps  to  be  filled  in  the  science  of  nutrition. 
The  campaign  to  educate  people  about  what  makes  a  good  diet  and  the 
relationship  between  diet  and  vigor,  health,  and  longevity  is  only  in  its 
beginnings. 

•  We  pride  ourselves  on  having  the  world's  cleanest  and  most  wholesome 
food.  Yet  constant  vigilance  is  needed  to  prevent  careless  or  inadvertent 
contamination. 

For  years,  the  Nation  has  had  ample  physical  and  scientific  resources 
to  remedy  all  these  conditions.  What  has  been  lacking  is  sufficient  public 
awareness  and  concern.  But  now  the  conscience  of  America  is  aroused. 

As  President  Nixon  said  early  in  1969,  "the  moment  is  at  hand  to  put  an 
end  to  hunger  in  America  ...  for  all  time." 

Why  do  hunger  and  undernutrition  persist  in  America? 

Is  it  because  of  the  farmer?  Hardly. 

He  wants  to  produce  enough  to  meet  the  nutritional  needs  of  every  man, 
woman,  and  child  in  this  country.  He  does,  and  more. 

As  consumers,  we  have  a  stake  in  a  productive  and  prosperous  agriculture. 
In  1969,  for  example,  we  got  a  reliable,  stable,  and  high-quality  food  supply 
for  17  percent  of  our  after-taxes  income — a  far  lower  proportion  than  in  any 
other  country  of  the  world.  But  to  assure  us  a  continued  supply  of  good  food, 
the  economic  position  of  our  agricultural  producers  needs  to  be  improved. 
Farm  people  are  not  sharing  adequately  in  the  Nation's  abundance.  They 
have  less  than  three-fourths  as  much  income  per  person  as  nonfarm  people. 

So  remarkable  has  been  the  annual  increase  in  farm  output  per  man- 
hour — an  increase  roughly  double  that  of  industry — that  one  hour  of  U.S. 
farm  labor  in  1969  produced  2%  times  as  much  as  it  did  only  15  years  earlier. 

There  is  no  shortage  of  food  in  America.  Yet  malnutrition  and  under- 
nutrition continue  because  of  two  major  factors. 

The  first  and  most  obvious  factor  is  lack  of  income.  Many  of  the  25 
million  Americans  with  poverty  level  incomes  are  simply  too  poor  to  buy  an 
adequate  diet  from  the  abundance  available  in  the  commercial  market  place. 

XXXIII 


The  second  factor,  and  one  perhaps  even  more  difficult  to  overcome,  is 
a  lack  of  knowledge  of  simple  basic  dietary  rules,  coupled  with  a  lack  of  under- 
standing of  the  importance  of  good  nutrition. 

This  factor  applies  to  every  sector  of  American  society.  Even  in  the  middle 
and  upper  income  groups,  we  find  nutritionally  inadequate  diets  among  a  large 
proportion  of  adolescent  girls,  women,  and  elderly  men. 

Both  poverty  and  lack  of  knowledge,  however,  hit  particularly  hard  at 
low-income  people. 

When  inadequate  buying  power  is  combined  over  a  long  period  of  time 
with  inadequate  knowledge  of  how  to  select  and  prepare  food  for  good  nutrition, 
poor  nutrition  becomes  almost  inevitable. 

And  from  poor  nutrition,  in  turn,  there  often  stems  debility  and  listlessness, 
with  inability  to  get  and  keep  a  responsible  job,  or  to  profit  sufficiently  by  ed- 
ucation and  training,  or  to  strive  in  a  meaningful  way  for  self-improvement. 

This  is  a  vicious  circle.  It  is  vital  that  this  circle  be  decisively  broken. 

But  how?  How  do  we  assure  improvements  in  the  diets  of  our  low-income 
families,  and  beyond  them  in  the  diets  of  the  undernourished  in  more  well-to-do 
groups? 

As  the  reader  will  see,  the  Nation  has,  in  being,  delivery  systems  with  a 
capability  of  reaching  everyone  in  the  U.S.  who  needs  improved  nutrition. 

We  have  a  food  stamp  program  to  increase  the  food  purchasing  power  of 
millions  of  low-income  people,  and  a  food  donation  program  through  which  the 
needy  can  receive  substantial  packages  of  basic  and  nutritious  foods. 

We  have  a  supplemental  foods  program,  available  to  every  community, 
through  which  we  provide  enriched  foods  to  meet  the  needs  of  new  and  expect- 
ant mothers,  infants,  and  young  children. 

We  have  a  child-feeding  program,  also  available  to  every  community,  that 
can  provide  one,  two,  or  three  meeds  a  day,  plus  nutritious  snacks  to  children 
in  day-care  centers,  settlement  houses,  and  summer  recreational  activities. 

We  have  the  school  lunch  and  school  breakfast  programs  through  which 
children  may  have  at  least  one  or  two  good  meals  a  day  through  the  school  year. 

We  have  a  food  and  nutrition  education  program  operating  in  all  50  States, 
the  District  of  Columbia,  Puerto  Rico,  and  the  Virgin  Islands  through  which 
trained  program  aides  show  homemakers  how  to  buy  food  and  how  to  prepare 
nutritionally  complete  meals  from  purchased  and  donated  foods. 

We  need  to  bring  to  maximum  effectiveness  all  of  these  varied  efforts  to 
improve  nutrition  in  America. 

This  Yearbook  has  valuable  information  for  everyone  interested  in  good 
nutrition.  It  will  help  us  choose  food  for  health  and  vigor.  It  gives  shoppers  hints 
on  how  to  get  more  for  food  dollars.  It  describes  how  food  wholesomeness, 
quality,  and  purity  are  safeguarded.  It  outlines  the  farmer's  role.  It  tells  the 
importance  of  our  national  role  in  helping  feed  hungry  nations  and  aiding  them 
to  develop  their  agricultures  as  a  major  stride  toward  economic  development. 
It  describes  the  contribution  of  the  food  industry  which  brings  food  to  our  shop- 
ping baskets  in  a  myriad  of  convenient  forms. 

In  short,  it  provides  basic,  solid  nutrition  information  needed  by  every 
consumer.  What's  more,  I  hope  and  believe  it  will  be  a  useful  gadfly  to  the 
American  conscience.  May  it  whet  the  appetite  of  every  reader  for  action  in 
achieving  the  goal  of  FOOD  FOR  US  ALL. 


XXXIV 


Preface 

JACK  HAYES 
Yearbook  Editor 


Food  is  in  everyone's  mind  at  least  three  times  each  day.  This  Yearbook  tells 
agriculture's  story  in  terms  of  food — how  it's  produced  by  the  farmer,  how  it's 
marketed,  and  how  the  consumer  can  use  it  to  best  advantage  in  the  home. 

In  effect,  here  is  the  national  food  story  in  some  400  pages,  a  popular 
encyclopedia  of  food  for  the  consumer  in  country  or  city. 

Food  From  Farm  to  You,  first  section  of  the  Yearbook,  describes  the  economics 
of  food,  from  the  farmer's  field  to  the  supermarket. 

The  second  section,  Buying  and  Cooking  Food,  is  divided  into  the  major 
food  classes,  from  meat  and  poultry  on  to  dairy  products,  fruits,  vegetables, 
and — ultimately — pickles,  spices,  and  herbs.  Housewives  may  find  the  tips  on 
buying  and  the  recipes  especially  helpful. 

Nutrition  and  planning  meals  are  major  components  of  the  third  section 
of  the  Yearbook,  Food  and  Tour  Life.  Some  of  the  chapter  subjects  emphasize 
basic  food  needs,  creating  good  food  habits,  and  money-stretching  ideas  to 
make  your  food  dollar  go  further. 

A  wide  variety  of  authors  wrote  this  book,  and  so  it  represents  a  diversity 
of  views.  Authors  for  the  most  part  are  from  the  U.S.  Department  of  Agri- 
culture, other  Federal  agencies,  and  State  land-grant  universities. 

William  S.  Hoofnagle  of  the  Economic  Research  Service  was  chairman 
of  the  Yearbook  Committee  that  planned  this  volume.  Others  on  the  Com- 
mittee were: 

Agricultural  Research  Service — Marguarette  M.  Hedge,  Irwin 
Hornstein,  Ruth  M.  Leverton,  and  Irene  H.  Wolgamot. 

Consumer  and  Marketing  Service — Eleanor  A.  Ferris  and  Hyman  M. 
Steinmetz. 

Economic  Research  Service — Stephen  J.  Hiemstra  and  Rosalind  C. 
Lifquist. 

Federal  Extension  Service — Margaret  C.  Browne  (ret.) . 

Food  and  Nutrition  Service — Elizabeth  S.  Hight. 

Foreign  Agricultural  Service — Kenneth  W.  Olson. 

Forest  Service — Clifford  D.  Owsley. 

Department  of  Health,  Education,  and  Welfare — Theresa  A.  Demus. 

Department  of  the  Interior- — Rose  G.  Kerr. 


XXXV 


Contents 


Foreword 

Clifford  M.  Hardin,  Secretary  of  Agriculture  xxxih 

Preface 

Jack  Hayes,  Editor  of  the  Yearbook  of  Agriculture  xxxv 


FOOD  FROM  FARM  TO  YOU 

The  Nation's  Food  Industry  and  You,  the  Consumer  2 

Wendell  Clement  and  Kenneth  R.  Farrell 

Where  Food  Originates:  The  Farmer  and  His  Farm  8 

Donald  D.  Durost 

The  Water's  Harvest:  Fish  of  All  Kinds  for  Our  Tables  15 

H.  E.  Crowther 

That  Coffee  From  Brazil,  and  Other  Food  Imports  18 

Frederick  D.  Gray 

Food  on  the  Go:  The  Long  Haul  From  Farm  to  Shopping  Bag  20 

John  0.  Gerald 

Food  Processors  and  Packagers  Put  a  New  Cook  in  Your  Kitchen  24 

Kermit  Bird 

Thousands  of  New  Foods  Give  You  a  Wide  Choice  36 

Harry  H.  Harp  and  William  S.  Hoqfnagle 

Wholesalers  and  Brokers:  Buyers  by  the  Carload  42 

Alden  C.  Manchester 

A  'Showcase'  for  Food,  at  Your  Local  Supermarket  45 

D.  B.  DeLoach 

Telescoping  20  Years  of  Change  in  the  Food  We  Eat  51 

Stephen  J.  Hiemstra 

Shedding  Light  on  the  Prices  We  Pay  for  Our  Food  55 

Denis  F.  Dunham  and  Robert  E.  Frye 

100  Million  Times  a  Day,  Americans  Eat  Out  62 

Eileen  F.  Taylor 

Farm  Programs:  Their  Role  in  Assuring  Our  Food  Supply  66 

M .  L.  Upchurch 

School  Lunch  to  Food  Stamp:  America  Cares  for  Its  Hungry  69 

Samuel  C.  Vanneman 

xxxvn 


U.S.  Farmers,  Suppliers  of  Food  for  the  World  75 

Kenneth  W.  Olson 

The  Revolution  in  Agriculture:  New  Hope  for  Many  Nations  81 

Quentin  M.  West 

Food  Enough  for  the  U.S.?  A  Crystal  Ball  Look  Ahead  87 

Rex  F.  Daly 

BUYING  AND  COOKING  FOOD 

All  About  Meat,  That  Key  Item  in  Food  Buying,  Meal  Planning  94 

Olive  M.  Batcher  and  Charles  E.  Murphey 

Poultry:  A  Tasty,  Anytime  Delight  That's  Popular  Dozens  of  Ways  1 1 7 

Violet  B.  Crosby  and  Ashley  R.  Gulich 

Savvy  With  Seafood  in  the  Store  and  Kitchen  for  That  Tang  of  the 

Deep  127 

Rose  G.  Kerr 

Eggs — Nature's  Prepackaged  Masterpiece  of  Nutrition  139 

A.  Elizabeth  Handy 

Versatility,  Inc.,  With  Milk  and  Our  Other  Dairy  Foods  146 

Harold  E.  Meister  and  Jennie  L.  Brogdon 

Fruit— Buy  It  With  Care  and  Serve  It  With  Flair  160 

Gladys  L.  Gilpin,  Elinore  T.  Greeley,  Edward  W.  Ross,  Jr. 

The  Vegetable  Roundup — From  Buying  to  Cooking  174 

Michael  A.  Castille,  Elsie  H  Dawson,  Edward  R.  Thompson 

Nuts,  a  Shell  Game  That  Pays  Off  in  Good  Eating  196 

Bernice  K.  McGeary  and  Malcolm  E.  Smith 

Cereals,  the  Staff  of  Life,  Take  on  a  New  Importance  in  Today's  World        205 
Andrea  C.  Mackey 

Baking  Treats  Ad  Infinitum:  Breads  and  Tasty  Pastry  213 

Theresa  A.  Demus 

How  to  Avoid  Confusion  in  Fats  and  Oils  Buying  or  Use  226 

Lois  T.  Kilgore 

Sugar,  Sweets  Play  Roles  in  Food  Texture  and  Flavoring  232 

Verna  A.  Mikesh  and  Leona  S.  Nelson 

Beverages:  Milk,  Coffee,  Teas,  Juices,  Chocolate  237 

Walter  R.  Moses  and  Margaret  F.  Tennant 

The  Pedigreed  Pickle  Is  Here:  New  Quality  in  Old  Favorites  244 

Edward  R.  Thompson 

Be  an  Artful  Seasoner  With  Spices  and  Herbs  249 

Helen  Carlisle  and  Richard  L.  Hall 

XXXVIII 


FOOD  AND  YOUR  LIFE 

Your  Basic  Food  Needs:  Nutrients  for  Life,  Growth  254 

ThelmaJ.  McMillan 

Creating  Good  Food  Habits — Start  Young,  Never  Quit  260 

Mary  M.  Hill 

A  Scorecard  on  How  We  Americans  Are  Eating  266 

Faith  Clark 

Smarten  Up  and  Snack  Right!  Here's  How  to  Do  It  273 

Audrey  C.  Burkart 

Food  Planning  for  Families  at  3  Different  Cost  Levels  279 

Helen  Denning  Ullrich 

Money  Stretching  Ideas  for  Making  Your  Food  Dollar  Go  F-u-r-t-h-e-r       286 
Ellen  H.  Semrow 

A  Food  Guide  for  the  Ages,  From  Baby  to  Gramps  294 

Harvye  Lewis 

Overweight,  and  What  It  Takes  to  Stay  Trim  304 

Marjorie  B.  Washbon  and  Gail  G.  Harrison 

Nutritive  Values  of  Foods,  and  Use  of  Tables  Listing  Them  315 

Bernice  K.  Watt 

Ways  and  Means  of  Improving  Our  Diets — and  Half  of  Us  Need  to!  319 

Evelyn  B.  Spindler  and  Margaret  C.  Browne 

Entertaining  Can  Be  Easy,  If  You  Plan  It  Like  This  325 

Judith  A.  Pheil 

Picnic  Pointers  and  Frill-Free  Ideas  for  Any  Outdoor  Meal  330 

Charlotte  M.  Dunn 

Community  Meals:  Organize,  Watch  Costs,  and  Serve  Only  Safe  Food       339 
Irene  H.  Wolgamot  and  Margy  Woodburn 

Decisions,  Decisions! — Now  It's  All  Up  to  You  348 

Ruth  M.  Leverton 

Photography  350 

Index  353 


Food 
from 
Farm 
to  You 


""tta^rtJMIUai 


'"«;1 


:^nw 


Wendell  Clement 
Kenneth  R.  Farrell 


The  Nation's 
Food  Industry 
and  You,  the 
Consumer 


Perhaps  no  industry  is  taken  more  for 
granted  than  the  food  industry. 

As  consumers,  we  have  come  to 
expect  the  supermarket  shelves  to  be 
plentifully  stocked  with  a  wide  choice 
of  wholesome  food,  in  the  form  and  at 
the  time  we  want  it,  day  in  and  day 
out.  But  at  the  same  time,  how  many 
of  us  ever  stop  to  think  about  how  the 
six  to  ten  thousand  items  on  these 
supermarket  shelves  got  there?  About 
the  millions  of  individuals  and  billions 
of  dollars  required  to  produce  and 
market  food?  About  the  fact  that,  as 
a  Nation,  we  spend  a  smaller  propor- 
tion of  our  take-home  pay  for  food 
than  in  any  other  country  in  today's 
world? 

If  you  lived  in  almost  any  other 
country,  or  if  we  in  this  country  still 
had  a  food  industry  like  that  of  the 
1930's,  most  of  us  would  have  quite  an 
adjustment  to  make  in  the  way  we  shop 
for  foods.  We  might  be  less  inclined  to 
take  the  industry  for  granted. 

Imagine,  if  you  will,  that  when  you 
buy  your  week's  groceries  you  would 
have  to  go  to  one  store  for  dry  gro- 
ceries— canned  foods,  flour,  sugar, 
cereal,  coffee,  and  the  like.  Then  move 


on  to  another  for  bread,  rolls,  cake, 
and  cookies;  find  a  produce  store  to 
get  your  fresh  vegetables  and  fruit; 
a  meat  market,  and  maybe  a  still 
different  place  for  fish. 

Next  add  to  this  a  drug  store  for 
toothpaste,  soap>  and  aspirin;  a  depart- 
ment store  for  hose,  furniture  polish, 
cleaning  fluids,  and  everyday  cups  and 
saucers.  And,  before  you  even  started 
this  trek,  you  might  have  to  go  to  a 
bank  to  cash  a  check. 

Today,  we  take  for  granted  that  all 
these  foods,  and  many  others  not  even 
produced  in  the  1930's,  as  well  as 
everyday  household  needs — and  check- 
cashing  facilities  too — will  be  available 
in  our  nearby  supermarket  so  that 
we  need  make  only  one  stop  and  be 
on  our  way  home  in  about  30  minutes. 

It  is  difficult  for  most  of  us  to 
realize  that  in  many  countries  people 
cannot  take  for  granted  even  an  ade- 
quate supply  of  basic  foods,  let  alone 
having  them  in  the  form  and  at  the 
time  desired  and  available  at  con- 
venient locations.  Even  today,  hunger 
strikes  two  out  of  three  of  the  world's 
population. 

While  pockets  of  poverty  still  re- 
main in  the  United  States,  the  food 
stamp  and  direct  distribution  pro- 
grams offer  us  the  promise  that  one 
day  soon  all  of  our  people  will  have 
adequate  food  supplies. 

Although  we  may  take  our  food 
system  for  granted,  the  fact  is  that  we 
depend  highly  upon  it  as  consumers. 
So  do  millions  of  farmers  who  rely 
upon  it  to  assemble,  transport,  process, 
package,  and  merchandise  their  com- 
modities and  return  to  them  incomes 
that  will  afford  them  a  satisfactory 
living.  In  addition,  several  million 
persons  employed  in  processing  and 
distributing  food  depend  upon  this 
industry  as  a  source  of  income. 
Considering  all  components — farmers, 
processors,  retailers,  and  so  on — the 
food   industry  is   the  largest  in  the 

Wendell  Clement  is  Leader,  Market  Perform- 
ance Research  Group,  Marketing  Economics  Divi- 
sion, Economic  Research  Service. 

Kenneth  R.  Farrell  is  Acting  Assistant  Admini- 
strator, Economic  Research  Service. 


Sorting  Florida  oranges,  before  they  are  packed  for  fresh  shipment.  Oranges  move  from  conveyor 
at  right  onto  conveyors  at  left,  where  women  remove  offcolor  and  other  defective  fruit. 


United  States  in  terms  of  numbers  of 
persons  employed.  So,  in  one  way  or 
another,  we  are  all  highly  dependent 
upon  it. 

Few  of  us  realize  the  magnitude  of 
the  task  faced  by  the  food  industry  in 
fulfilling  our  requirements  for  food 
and  the  many  services  we  have  come 
to  expect.  Consider  the  task  faced  by 
this  industry  in  meeting  all  our  expec- 
tations that  the  food  will  be  available 
where  and  when  we  want  it;  in  a  form 
that  we  want;  and  at  a  price  that  will 
allow  us  to  spend  a  large  part  of  our 
income  on  other  goods  and  services 
which  we  consider  necessary  for  the 
good  life. 

To  get  food  where  we  want  it,  the 
marketing  system  must  assemble  prod- 
ucts from  farms  across  the  country. 
These  must  be  sorted  for  uniformity 
and  combined  into  units  suitable  for 
ease  of  handling  and  shipping.  On 
the  way  from  the  farm  to  our  grocery 
stores,  food  travels  through  a  host  of 
middlemen — packers,  processors,  ware- 
house operators,  and  wholesalers.  Dur- 


ing this  roundabout  trip,  we  expect 
the  quality  and  wholesomeness  to  be 
preserved — particularly  in  fresh  foods 
which,  today,  often  travel  long  dis- 
tances. All  this  must  be  a  continuous 
process.  New  supplies  must  arrive  at 
local  warehouses  and  wholesalers  al- 
most daily.  Getting  foods  where  we 
want  them  requires  a  well-coordinated 
and  dependable  transportation  system. 

Making  supplies  available  when  we 
want  them  requires  a  lot  of  storage 
space.  If  foods  were  not  stored  during 
seasonal  surpluses,  we  might  be  faced 
with  periods  of  feast  and  famine. 
Each  year  at  the  end  of  the  growing 
season,  when  supplies  are  plentiful, 
fresh  products  are  stored  in  specially 
equipped  warehouses.  Processed  foods 
are  stockpiled.  In  addition  to  insuring 
a  regular  flow  of  food  throughout  the 
year,  this  also  helps  to  stabilize  prices. 

Perhaps  the  greatest  demands  placed 
on  the  food  industry  result  from  the 
form  in  which  we  want  our  food.  Due 
to  our  different  social,  cultural,  and 
economic  backgrounds,  we  possess  a 


FOOD— FROM  FARM  TO  YOU 


imiammmmmsm, 


Exports 


Food  Pioceuou    ;■;■'."/'■  >&,'^i'^-i»'^r-- 
Wholesale  Pmessois         Riw  feed  ifeiW 

Exports 


CONSUMER 


wide  variety  of  tastes.  And  each  of  us 
expects  to  find  what  we  like.  Multi- 
plying this  by  60  million  families 
results  in  a  myriad  of  different  wants 
and  expectations.  For  example,  one 
shopper  may  want  a  2-inch  cut  of 
prime  tenderloin  steak;  another  may 
want  thin-sliced  pork  chops.  Some 
may  want  only  fresh  fruits  and  vege- 
tables and  cake  flour,  shortening,  sug- 
ar, and  eggs  for  a  cake.  An  employed 
homemaker,  pushed  for  time,  may 
want  all  the  convenience  she  can  buy 
so  meals  at  home  can  be  quickly  and 
easily  prepared.  A  gourmet  may  hunt 
for  the  unusual  food  or  one  he  had 
on  his  last  trip  abroad. 

As  we  have  become  more  affluent, 
we  have  not  only  demanded  higher 
quality  foods  but  foods  with  built-in 
chef  services  and  convenience  features. 
More  foods  are  processed  than  ever 
before;  frozen  foods,  high  in  quality 
and  uniformity,  are  commonplace;  so 
are  dehydrated  and  precooked  foods. 
Foods  are  packaged  in  containers  of 
various  size,  shape,  and  composition 
to  meet  family  needs  and  to  provide 
maximum  convenience  in  handling 
and  storage  in  the  home.  As  a  result, 
retailers  must  stock  a  wide  variety  of 
foods  in  many  forms  to  meet  our  di- 


verse needs  as  consumers.  Each  year, 
large  sums  of  money  are  spent  by  the 
industry  developing  new  product  forms 
or  improving  old  ones.  Many  are  ac- 
cepted by  consumers  but  are  soon 
followed  by  a  newer,  more  convenient 
or  improved  product.  And  so,  the 
industry  is  constantly  changing,  each 
change  designed  to  improve  the  firm's 
position  in  the  marketplace  and  to 
gain  the  favor  of  the  quality-minded, 
convenience-seeking  consumer. 

All  along  the  way,  our  food  industry 
has  done  much  to  maintain  quality 
and  sanitation  standards.  Starting  at 
the  farm,  foods  are  sorted  so  that  they 
can  be  sold  on  the  basis  of  grades  and 
other  quality  indications.  More  than 
350  Federal  grade  standards  and  spec- 
ifications have  been  set  for  foods,  in- 
cluding meat,  poultry,  dairy  products, 
fruits,  and  vegetables. 

Many  laws  and  regulations  are  de- 
signed to  assure  us  wholesome,  safe 
food.  Most  cities  have  ordinances  that 
specify  standards  for  the  production 
and  marketing  of  milk.  The  Federal 
Food,  Drug,  and  Cosmetic  Act  pro- 
hibits the  movement  of  adulterated 
and  misbranded  foods  from  one  State 
to  another. 

The  Meat  Inspection  and  Poultry 
Products  Inspection  Acts  have  been 
important  in  regulating  wholesome- 
ness  of  these  products.  The  laws  pro- 
vide for  Federal  inspection  of  red  meat 
and  all  poultry  products  sold  across 
State  borders.  The  laws  were  strength- 
ened recently  to  require  that  products 
sold  within  the  State  must  be  State-in- 
spected under  standards  which  are 
equal  to  Federal  inspection. 

In  addition  to  providing  us  with 
food  where,  when,  and  in  the  form  we 
want  it,  our  food  industry  has  kept 
its  prices  reasonable,  relative  to  the 
prices  of  many  other  goods  and  serv- 
ices important  in  our  economy  and  to 
the  rising  incomes  of  most  Americans. 
In  recent  years,  food  prices  have  been 
rising — largely  as  the  result  of  more 
built-in  services  and  higher  costs  of 
labor  and  materials.  But  the  fact  is 
that,  today,  we  spend  a  smaller  share 
of  our  take-home  pay  for  food  than 


at  any  point  in  the  history  of  our 
Nation.  And  for  this  smaller  share, 
we  are  buying  a  wider  assortment  of 
foods — foods  of  higher  quality  with 
more  services,  and  larger  quantities  of 
higher  priced  ones  as  well,  like  meat. 
Although  we  spend  more  dollars  for 
our  food,  we  have  added  many  more 
dollars  to  our  paychecks. 
•  These  achievements  are  even  more 
impressive  when  we  realize  that  there  . 
have  been  inflationary  tendencies  in 
most  parts  of  the  American  economy 
since  the  end  of  World  War  II.  The 
achievements  would  not  have  been 
possible  without  a  greatly  increased 
efficiency  to  offset  the  constantly  rising 
costs  of  labor,  materials,  and  other 
things  that  the  food  industry  uses. 

In  the  past  two  decades,  improve- 
ments in  efficiency  have  been  made  at 
all  levels  of  the  food  system.  Output 
per  manhour  has  increased  at  an 
annual  rate  of  4  percent  in  food  proc- 
essing and  3  percent  in  food  distribu- 
tion. These  productivity  increases  were 
made  possible  by  large  investments  in 
plants  and  equipment,  by  adoption  of 
new  and  improved  techniques  of  han- 
dling, processing,  and  selling  food,  and 
by  better  management. 

But  the  most  spectacular  gains  in 
efficiency  have  come  at  the  farm  level. 
Increases  in  output  per  manhour  have 
averaged  about  6  percent  per  year. 
The  importance  of  these  gains  is  more 
apparent  when  we  realize  that  in  1 950, 
one  farmworker  supplied  enough  farm 
products  for  about  15  people,  and 
today  he  supplies  enough  for  nearly 
three  times  as  many.  These  gains  in 
productivity  have  been  important  in 


holding  food  costs  in  line  and  allowing 
us  more  money  to  buy  other  goods 
and  services. 

How  is  the  vast  food  industry  coor- 
dinated? How  are  the  requirements  of 
more  than  200  million  consumers  of 
food  matched  with  the  actions  of  thou- 
sands of  retailers,  processors,  trans- 
porters, and  about  3  million  farmers? 
What  guides  the  industry  in  producing 
the  foods  and  services  when,  where, 
and  in  the  form  wanted  by  consumers? 

The  guiding  hand  in  such  decisions  is 
a  highly  developed  and  decentralized 
exchange  system.  When  a  homemaker 
purchases  food  at  the  supermarket, 
she  transmits,  in  effect,  a  signal  to  the 
industry  expressing  her  preferences 
and  ability  to  buy.  When  she  pur- 
chases one  food  instead  of  another,  or 
one  with  more  built-in  services  instead 
of  an  unprocessed  or  unpackaged  food, 
the  industry  has  a  basis  for  planning  its 
production  and  marketing  activities. 

These  signals  are  transmitted  from 
one  part  of  the  industry  to  another 
by  means  of  a  system  of  markets  and 
prices,  or  other  arrangements,  such 
as  contracts.  For  example,  if  a  retailer 
finds  that  customers  at  his  store  are 
willing  to  purchase  more  of  a  food  at 
a  certain  price,  he  may  instruct  his 
wholesale  buyer  or  his  buyer  in  the 
area  where  the  product  is  produced  to 
increase  his  purchases  at  a  specified 
price.  At  each  market  there  will  be 
sellers  anxious  to  get  as  much  for  this 
product  as  possible.  So,  bargaining  be- 
tween buyer  and  seller  takes  place,  and 
ultimately  the  product  changes  owner- 
ship and  becomes  available  to  us,  the 
consumers. 


Although  the  markets  for  food  are 
much  more  complicated  than  this 
simple  illustration  indicates,  farmers, 
processors,  retailers,  and  others  in  the 
industry  depend  upon  them  to  provide 
guidance  in  their  decisions  of  what, 
when,  and  where  to  produce  and  sell. 
This  market  mechanism  is  not  perfect 
and  it  cannot  instantaneously  match 
consumer  desires  with  supplies  at  each 
segment  of  the  industry,  but  it  does 
operate  well  over  long  periods  of  time. 

Though  we  sometimes  overlook  this 
exchange  system  and  the  part  it  plays 
in  guiding  decisions  in  the  food  in- 
dustry, its  role  is  a  vital  one.  Farmers 
and  marketers  depend  upon  the  ex- 
change system  to  yield  prices  that  will 
reward  them  fairly  and  equitably,  as 
well  as  to  provide  reliable  guidance  in 
their  production  decisions.  As  con- 
sumers, we  are  interested  in  having 
our  preferences  expressed  at  various 
levels  of  the  industry  as  clearly  and 
efficiently  as  is  possible.  For  these 
reasons,  various  laws  and  regulations 
have  been  adopted  to  prevent  unfair 
or  inequitable  practices  in  buying  and 
in  selling. 


Putting  all  this  together,  we  can  see 
why  a  large  and  complex  industrial 
network  has  emerged  to  meet  our 
needs.  This  network  is  called  "agri- 
business." It  begins  with  firms  which 
supply  products — such  as  seeds,  fertil- 
izers, petroleum  products,  and  farm 
machinery — used  by  farmers  in  the 
production  process.  It  includes  the 
millions  of  farmworkers  who  till  the 
land  and  harvest  the  crops.  Added  to 
these  are  the  coundess  marketing  firms 
involved  in  processing  and  moving 
the  product  from  farmer  to  consumer. 

The  economic  importance  of  this 
agribusiness  complex  is  indicated  by 
the  amount  of  capital  invested.  The 
total  assets  now  invested  amount  to 
more  than  $350  billion,  two-thirds  of 
which  are  invested  at  the  farm  level. 
Processing  and  distributing  firms  ac- 
count for  another  fourth,  and  the  sup- 
pliers of  agricultural  products  for  the 
remainder. 

More  than  23  million  people,  or 
about  30  percent  of  the  total  U.S. 
work  force,  are  employed  in  this  agri- 
business complex.  Of  these,  the  farm 
firms  and  farm  supply  firms  together 


Livestock  auction  in  Colorado.  Electric  scoreboard  gives  gross  and  average  weight  of  stock  lots. 


Chicago  Board  of  Trade,  one  of  Nation's  major  food  exchanges.  The  "pits"  where  buying  and 
selling  take  place  are  enclosed  by  steps. 


employ  about  1 1  million ;  processing 
and  distribution  firms  employ  some 
12  million. 

By  almost  any  measure,  our  food 
industry  is  large  and  of  considerable 
economic  and  social  significance.  How 
well  it  operates  is  of  concern  to  each 
of  us,  for  we  as  consumers  are  the 
energizers  which  make  the  wheels  of 
this  big  industrial  complex  turn.  As 
such,  we  have  our  responsibilities  to 
the  food  industry  as  well  as  the  food 
industry  to  us.  But  perhaps  our  most 
important  responsibility  is  to  exercise 
intelligent  choices  in  selecting  products 
and  in  patronizing  stores.  Intelligent 
choice  on  our  part  drives  the  com- 
petitive wheels  of  industry  to  provide 
quality  services  and  products.  It  also 
motivates  firms  to  improve  efficiency 
and  search  for  better  ways  of  getting 
things  done. 

We  need  to  be  informed  about  the 
food  industry  and  the  way  it  operates, 
to  foster  a  healthy  and  enlightened 
attitude  towards  this  industry  and 
the  public  policies  relating  to  it.  We 
should  understand,  for  example,  that 
without  profits  the  current  investment 
of  more  than  $350  billion  would  not 
have  been  made.  Reasonable  profits 
are    necessary    to    attract    capital    to 


build  stores  in  our  communities,  con- 
struct processing  plants,  and  purchase 
farmlands.  The  costs  of  the  many 
built-in  food  services  are  also  incor- 
porated into  the  price  of  the  product. 
And,  overall,  the  cost  of  doing  business 
in  the  food  industry  is  rising  as  it  is 
in  other  industries. 

As  citizens,  we  should  understand 
and  support  public  policies  which  are 
aimed  at  maintaining  and  fostering  an 
efficient,  progressive,  and  responsive 
food  industry.  Public  policies  are 
needed  which  promote  fair  competi- 
tion among  participants  in  the  food 
industry  so  that  efficient  firms  can 
survive  and  grow.  Then  too,  if  we 
demand  that  the  food  industry  be 
honest  with  us,  we  should  deal  fairly 
with  it.  Bad  checks,  pilferage,  and 
destruction  of  property  are  examples 
of  acts  which  add  to  marketing  costs 
and  to  our  food  bill. 

All  of  this  implies  that  we  as  con- 
sumers ought  to  be  knowledgeable 
about  the  food  industry.  Consumer 
education  programs  are  important  in 
providing  this  information.  Workshops 
and  study  groups  might  be  usefully 
employed.  Homemakers  could  involve 
their  own  teenagers  in  planning  the 
food  budget  and  buying. 

7 


Donald  D.  Durost 


Where  Food 


the  Farmer 
and  His  Farm 


Few  of  us  ever  stop  to  think  about  how 
much  food  we  eat  in  a  year.  And, 
probably,  even  fewer  of  us  ever  con- 
sider how  much  our  more  than  200 
million  Americans  eat.  You  may  find 
it  hard  to  believe,  yet  each  of  us  eats 
nearly  three-quarters  of  a  ton  every 
365  days!  This  amounts  to  nearly  3 
tons  a  year  for  a  family  of  four  and  a 
whopping  150  million  tons  to  feed  us 
all.  It's  the  job  of  our  farmers  and 
commercial  fishermen  to  provide  most 
of  this.  The  rest,  around  10  percent 
of  our  total  food,  is  imported  from 
countries  around  the  world. 

So  many  of  us  live  in  cities  that  we 
tend  to  take  for  granted  the  lavish 
supply  of  foods  at  our  grocery.  As  we 
wheel  our  carts  around  to  select  what 
our  families  want,  we  seldom  consider 
what  it  has  taken  to  get  all  this  food 
to  our  neighborhood  supermarket. 
We  city  folks  frequently  hear  about 
farmers,  but  some  of  us  have  never 
been  on  a  farm  and  few  of  us  really 
know  the  part  farmers  play  in  getting 
food  ready  for  its  trek  to  market — to 
provide  us  with  the  most  abundant 
food  supply  in  the  world. 

Few  nations  are  capable  of  produc- 
ing enough  food  for  all  their  people. 

8 


For  a  country  to  do  this,  it  must  be 
blessed  with  a  rich  supply  of  natural 
resources,  good  workers,  and  money 
enough  to  keep  pace  with  changing 
technology  in  this  rapidly  changing 
world  of  ours. 

We've  been  very  fortunate  in  having 
more  than  our  share  of  natural  re- 
sources. Our  country  is  located  in  the 
temperate  zone,  has  a  wide  range  of 
climate  and  many  types  of  land.  This 
makes  possible  the  great  variety  of 
crops  and  livestock  that  we  produce — 
including  wheat,  corn,  tomatoes,  or- 
anges, beef,  and  milk. 

Production  of  all  this  food  is  not 
planned  by  some  central  agency.  It 
is  the  result  of  3  million  sets  of  deci- 
sions made  by  3  million  farmers.  It 
is  they  who  decide  what  crops  and 
how  many  acres  of  each  will  be  pro- 
duced. And  a  declining  number  of  our 
farmers  have  been  able  to  supply 
ample  food  for  a  constandy  increasing 
population. 

Our  50  States  have  a  total  area  of 
nearly  2.3  billion  acres,  with  about 
half  of  this  taken  up  as  farms.  Forests 
and  rangeland  take  another  third  and 
parks  and  wastelands,  such  as  the 
western  desert,  about  a  sixth.  The 
rest,  only  about  55  million  acres,  or  a 
mere  4  percent,  is  used  for  our  cities, 
towns,  roads,  and  airports.  Although 
farms  take  up  a  fair  share  of  our  land, 
there's  still  enough  left  that  can  be 
used  for  producing  more  food  when 
it's  needed. 

Our  farms  come  in  different  sizes, 
produce  different  kinds  of  food,  and 
are  managed  in  different  ways.  They 
fall  somewhere  between  the  extremes 
of  small  family  farms  with  a  few 
cows  and  chickens,  a  pig  or  two,  a 
garden,  and  a  few  acres  to  raise  food 
to  sell,  and  the  very  large  farms  of  a 
thousand  acres  or  more,  owned  by 
individuals,  cooperatives,  or  corpora- 
tions and  operated  by  managers  and 
hired  labor. 

Accordingly,  a  farmer  may  run  his 


Donald  D.  Durost  is  an  Economist  with  the 
Farm  Production  Economics  Division,  Economic 
Research  Service. 


Combine  operator  examines  newly  threshed 
soybeans  on  Ohio  farm. 


own  small  farm  or  a  320  acre  spread 
where  he  raises  grain  and  livestock. 
He  may  be  a  catdeman  who  owns  a 
small  farm  and  rents  a  thousand  acres 
of  range  country.  He  may  be  a  man 
who  operates  a  big  farm  for  someone 
else,  or  a  sharecropper  with  a  few 
acres.  Yet  in  our  country,  farming  is 
the  only  major  industry  where  family 
groups  make  up  the  largest  share  of 
the  labor  force.  Farmers  and  their 
unsalaried  family  members  constitute 
almost  three-fourths  of  the  5  million 
workers  on  farms.  Only  about  a  mil- 
lion are  paid  workers. 

In  addition  to  differences  in  size 
and  the  kind  of  employees,  farms  also 
differ  in  what  they  produce.  Some 
grow  fruits  and  vegetables,  some  pro- 
duce livestock  and  poultry,  and  still 
others  produce  cotton  and  tobacco. 
Though  some  crops  and  livestock  are 


produced  in  all  parts  of  the  country, 
the  kinds  and  amount  vary  somewhat 
by  region.  Soil  conditions,  climate, 
and  even  how  far  it  is  to  the  nearest 
or  best  market  influence  decisions  on 
what  and  how  much  to  grow. 

If  we  travel  around  the  country,  wc 
find  that  the  Northeastern  States — 
from  Maine  to  Maryland — and  those 
bordering  on  the  Great  Lakes — from 
New  York  out  to  Minnesota — are  the 
Nation's  principal  milk-producing 
areas.  Climate  and  soil  in  these  States 
are  suited  to  raising  grains  and  forage 
for  cattle  and  for  providing  pasture- 
land  for  grazing.  Broiler  farming  has 
become  important  in  Maine — and 
from  New  Jersey  to  Maryland.  The 
half  million  farms  in  the  Northeast 
and  Lake  States,  which  average  about 
190  acres  each,  provide  17  percent  of 
our  farm  products. 

The  some  half  million  farms  a  little 
farther  south  in  the  Appalachian 
region — West  Virginia  to  North  Caro- 
lina, Kentucky,  and  Tennessee — are 
somewhat  smaller  in  size,  averaging 
only  122  acres.  Though  these  farms 
produce  commodities  such  as  peanuts, 
catde,  and  milk,  their  main  product 
is  tobacco. 

Going  still  farther  south  along  the 
Adantic  Coast,  farms  start  getting  a 
litde  larger  again.  About  a  quarter  of 
a  million  farms  averaging  220  acres 
each  are  important  for  cotton  and 
broilers.  Some  vegetables,  such  as 
sweetpotatoes,  are  grown  in  this  area 
along  with  peanuts.  And,  of  course, 
there  are  the  big  Florida  citrus  groves. 

Traveling  west  to  the  Southern  Delta 
States — to  Mississippi,  Louisiana,  and 
Arkansas — we  find  another  quarter  of 
a  million  farms  about  the  same  size  as 
in  Appalachia,  that  concentrate  on 
raising  cotton.  Some  rice  and  soybeans 
are  also  grown  and  livestock  is  being 
produced  in  larger  numbers  than 
formerly. 

As  we  turn  and  go  north,  we  come 
to  what  is  frequently  called  the  "bread- 
basket" of  America.  The  eastern  part 
of  this  is  known  as  the  Corn  Belt  and 
the  area  a  litde  farther  west  as  the 
Great  Plains. 


The  Corn  Belt,  extending  from  cen- 
tral Ohio  to  the  Nebraska  border,  is  a 
region  with  rich  soil,  good  climate,  and 
sufficient  rainfall  for  excellent  farming. 
And,  its  643,000  farms  provide  nearly 
one-fourth  of  our  food  supply — corn, 
beef,  and  pork  as  well  as  soybeans  and 
some  wheat. 

The  Great  Plains,  which  extend 
north  and  south  from  Canada  to  Mex- 
ico and  from  the  Corn  Belt  on  the  east 
to  the  Rocky  Mountain  States  on  the 
west,  are  quite  different  in  character 
from  the  Midwest  corn  country.  Here 
the  one-half  million  farms,  averaging 
680  acres  in  size,  supply  a  fifth  of  our 
food.  The  flatness  of  die  land,  and  the 
small  amounts  of  rain  in  this  area, 
gready  influence  what  can  be  pro- 
duced. In  addition,  in  the  northern 
part — in  the  Dakotas  and  as  far  south 
as  Kansas — winters  are  cold  and  snowy 
so  the  growing  season  is  relatively 
short.  Nevertheless,  nearly  60  percent 
of  our  wheat  is  produced  in  the  Great 
Plains.  In  the  southern  part — Okla- 
homa and  Texas — cotton  and  catde 
are  important. 

The  Mountain  States — from  Idaho 
and  Montana  to  New  Mexico  and 
Arizona — provide  us  with  a  still  differ- 
ent terrain.  Vast  areas  of  this  region 
are  particularly  suited  to  raising  catde 
and  sheep.  Irrigation  in  the  valleys 
provides  water  for  such  crops  as  sugar 
beets,  potatoes,  fruits,  and  vegetables. 
The  134,000  farms  and  ranches  in 
these  States  are  the  largest  in  the 
country  as  they  average  over  2,000 
acres  in  size. 

In  our  trek  across  the  country,  we 
now  reach  the  West  Coast.  Farms  are 
smaller  here  than  in  the  Mountain 
States,  but  still  large  by  most  standards. 
The  151,000  farms  in  our  Pacific  Coast 
States  average  about  500  acres  in 
size.  Those  in  the  south  specialize  in 
raising  fruits  and  vegetables;  wheat 
and  fruit  are  important  in  the  northern 
part.  Catde  are  raised  throughout  the 
entire  region. 

Finally,  we  come  to  the  newest 
States  in  the  Union,  Alaska  and 
Hawaii.  These  States  provide  only  a 
small  part  of  our  total  farm  output. 

10 


Dairy  and  poultry  products  are  the 
major  foods  produced  upon  the  300 
Alaskan  farms.  The  long  summer  days 
make  possible  Alaska  production  of 
potatoes,  lettuce,  carrots,  and  cabbage. 
Hawaii  has  4,700  farms.  Pineapples 
and  sugarcane  are  the  major  crops. 
The  mild  climate  makes  possible  die 
production  of  bananas,  coffee,  maca- 
damia  nuts,  and  papayas. 

This  takes  us  around  the  country — 
showing  us  where  most  of  our  food 
comes  from  and  why.  Now  let's  take 
a  closer  look  at  our  farms  and  farmers. 

Our  world  has  been  changing  fast 
and  most  of  us  have  felt  the  impact 
of  the  changes  that  have  taken  place. 
Farmers  are  no  exception.  Probably 
no  other  major  group  in  our  society 
has  had  to  deal  with  so  much  change 
in  so  short  a  time. 

At  one  time,  farming  was  a  way  of 
life ;  now  it's  a  mighty  serious  business. 
Before  World  War  II,  farmers  made  up 
a  large  share  of  our  population.  Since 
then,  more  people  have  left  the  farms 
than  now  are  living  on  them.  Today, 
only  one  in  20  Americans  lives  on  a 
farm.  In  the  years  gone  by,  a  father 
could  expect  a  son  to  take  over  his 
farm  when  he  was  too  old  to  run  it. 
Today,  sons  and  daughters  seek 
better  jobs  in  the  city  and  are  likely  to 
sell  the  farms  they  inherit  to  someone 
else  who  needs  more  land. 

Since  1950,  the  number  of  farms 
has  gone  down  significantly,  but  the 
amount  of  land  being  farmed  has 
changed  littie.  Today  there  are  around 
3  million  farms,  about  half  as  many 
as  in  1950.  During  these  same  years, 
the  size  of  the  average  farm  increased 
from  225  to  360  acres.  And  more  than 
half  of  the  farms  sold  in  recent  years 
were  bought  by  fanners  to  enlarge 
their  own  holdings. 

Though  we  have  far  fewer  farmers 
today  than  what  seems  like  only 
yesterday,  those  who  have  stayed  have 
more  than  met  the  needs  of  a  growing 
population.  Since  1950,  our  popula- 
tion has  increased  32  percent;  our 
food  supplies  have  gone  up  41  percent. 
In  addition,  agricultural  exports  have 
nearly  doubled. 


All  this  has  come  about  because 
farmers  have  adopted  new  technolo- 
gies, mechanized  their  farms,  and 
improved  their  management  opera- 
tions. It  has  been  achieved  because 
they  have  better  seeds,  insecticides, 
and  fertilizers.  They  use  more  tractors, 
trucks,  and  harvesting  machines.  With 
this  greater  mechanization  of  their 
work,  they  plant  and  harvest  more 
acres  with  fewer  hired  hands. 

Family  farms  continue  to  be  the 
backbone  of  our  Nation's  agriculture. 
These  may  vary  considerably  in  size. 
On  a  family  farm,  more  than  half  the 
work  is  done  by  the  farmer  and  his 
family.  According  to  this  definition, 
95  percent  of  all  our  farms  are  family 
farms.  And  they  account  for  65  percent 
of  the  products  going  to  market. 

But  we  have  other  kinds  of  farms, 
too — the  large,  commercial  farms. 
These,  larger-than-family-size,  have  an 
almost  factory-type  system  of  opera- 
tion. Most  of  them  are  in  California, 
Arizona,  southern  Texas,  and  Florida. 

The  decrease  in  the  number  of  our 
farms  and  the  increase  in  size  doesn't 
necessarily  mean  that  this  trend  will 
continue  at  the  same  pace  as  in  the 
recent  past.  When  a  farmer  increases 
the  size  of  his  farm  to  take  advantage 
of  new  technologies,  he  also  increases 
his  investments  and  costs.  Today,  if 
farming  is  his  only  source  of  income, 
he  must  sell  products  worth  at  least 
$10,000  to  provide  his  family  with  a 
minimum  level  of  living. 

Not  all  farms  produce  enough  to 
bring  in  $10,000  a  year.  Many  do  not 
even  try  or  want  to  do  so.  Some  are 
meant  to  be  part-time  or  retirement 
farms  only. 

On  the  other  hand,  some  factory- 
type  farms  can  produce  enough  to 
bring  in  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
dollars  a  year. 

About  43  percent  of  our  farms  have 
sales  amounting  to  less  than  $2,500 
a  year.  These  account  for  only  about  3 
percent  of  our  food.  Some  are  retire- 
ment farms;  others  are  subsistence 
farms  where  family  members  are  un- 
deremployed. On  the  average,  those 
living  on  farms  with  sales  falling  in 


this  dollar  range  receive  more  than 
five  times  as  much  income  from  off- 
farm  work  as  from  farming. 

About  one-fourth  of  the  farms  sell 
between  $2,500  and  $10,000  worth  of 
products  and  account  for  about  12 
percent  of  all  sales.  Few  of  these  will 
provide  a  satisfactory  level  of  living 
unless  supplemented  by  other  income. 

The  rest  of  our  farms,  now  less  than 
1  million,  but  gradually  increasing  in 
number,  have  gross  sales  of  $10,000  or 
more  and  provide  85  percent  of  our 
farm  products.  Among  these,  however, 
are  more  than  30,000  farms  with  sales 
of  at  least  $100,000  a  year.  Though 
such  big  operations  represent  only 
about  1  percent  of  all  farms,  they  ac- 
count for  almost  a  fourth  of  all  sales — 
over  60  percent  of  our  vegetables ;  45 
percent  of  the  fruit  and  nuts;  and  35 
percent  of  all  poultry  and  poultry 
products. 

To  sum  up,  the  average  size  of  our 
3  million  plus  farms  is  360  acres; 
farmers  sell  livestock  and  crops  valued 
at  $14,000  per  farm;  and  their  aver- 
age net  income  is  $4,500  a  year.  As 
mentioned  earlier,  some  farmers  have 
regular  work  off  the  farm;  others  may 
take  jobs  during  slack  periods.  Even 
families  on  farms  with  $40,000  or 
more  sales  average  $5,000  a  year  from 
nonfarm  sources. 

Farmers  are  specialists,  too.  A  major 
change  that  has  taken  place  in  farming 
is  the  trend  toward  greater  speciali- 
zation— raising  fewer  kinds  of  crops 
or  livestock,  buying  more  of  the  seeds 
and  feed,  and  using  more  mechanical 
equipment — tractors  and  milking  ma- 
chines, and  so  on.  Today,  the  average 
farm  has  between  three  and  four  major 
enterprises,  compared  with  over  five 
before  World  War  II.  Though  there 
still  are  some  advantages  to  diversified 
farming — raising  more  kinds  of  prod- 
ucts— there  are  important  reasons  for 
specializing.  It  takes  a  high  degree  of 
skill  and  knowledge  to  compete  suc- 
cessfully in  producing  one  farm  prod- 
uct. A  farmer  who  does  well  uses 
knowledge  of  genetics,  land  and  water 
conservation,  and  business  manage- 
ment. He  performs  many  jobs  with 

11 


complex  tools  and  machines.  He  com- 
bines science  and  machine  power  with 
the  ancient  arts  of  tilling  the  soil. 

A  farmer  must  consider  costs  when 
deciding  what  to  produce,  and  costs 
that  must  be  met  before  he  receives  a 
return  on  his  investment  vary  greatly 
by  crops.  For  example,  the  cost  per 
acre  for  the  better-than-average  farmer 
is  $18.20  for  wheat,  $47.25  for  corn, 
and  up  to  $103.50  for  cotton. 

On  the  average,  farmers  spend  70 
cents  out  of  every  dollar  of  sales  for 
production  expenses.  This  varies  by 
size  of  farm,  ranging  from  about  50 
cents  per  dollar  sales  by  small  farms 
to  80  cents  by  farms  with  sales  of  more 
than  $40,000  a  year.  As  the  size  of  a 
farm  increases,  farmers  must  purchase 
more  fertilizers,  pesticides,  gas  and 
oil,  and  other  nonfarm  goods.  And 
the  larger  the  farm,  the  more  hired 
workers  there  are  to  pay. 

Farmers  are  large  purchasers  of 
tractors,  trucks,  automobiles,  and  other 
equipment.  They  buy  about  one  of 
every  eight  trucks  that  are  sold.  In  a 
recent  year,  they  spent  over  $1  billion 
for  tractors,  $1.3  billion  for  auto- 
mobiles, and  $2.5  billion  for  machinery 
like  plows,  planters,  and  harvesting 
machines.    And,    of  course,    as   with 


other  industries,  as  the  years  go  by 
these  wear  out  or  become  obsolete 
and  have  to  be  replaced. 

Most  crops  have  benefited  from  the 
use  of  new  and  improved  technologies. 
For  example,  since  1950  corn  yields 
have  more  than  doubled — from  38  to 
79  bushels  per  acre.  Cotton  yields 
also  have  nearly  doubled,  going  from 
269  to  51 1  pounds.  Wheat  yields  went 
from  16.5  to  28.4  bushels  an  acre  and 
soybeans  edged  up  from  around  22 
to  27  bushels. 

A  major  problem  for  a  farmer, 
however,  is  the  variability  in  prices  he 
gets  for  his  products.  His  income  can 
fluctuate  widely  from  year  to  year — 
and  even  within  a  season.  Farm 
production  is  not  a  continuous  process. 
Usually  it  covers  a  period  of  only  a  few 
months.  During  this  time,  crops  can 
be  badly  damaged  by  weather,  in- 
sects, or  disease.  And  unlike  most 
manufacturing  industries,  a  farmer  has 
almost  no  control  over  how  much 
his  farm  will  produce  once  the  crop  is 
planted — how  many  bushels  of  wheat 
per  acre,  for  example.  Wide  swings  in 
prices  are  common.  In  1964,  farmers 
received  $14.80  for  hogs,  per  100 
pounds.  This  rose  to  $22.80  in  1966 
and  then  dropped  back  to  $18.63  in 


This  Louisiana  farmer  increases  his  profits  by  storing  rice  in  bins  on  farm,  and  selling  it  when 

the  market  is  most  favorable. 


1968.  The  same  and  sometimes  even 
greater  ups  and  downs  occur  in  prices 
of  other  commodities  as  well. 

At  the  same  time  that  prices  may 
fluctuate  widely,  the  things  a  farmer 
has  to  buy  may  be  going  up  steadily 
in  price.  This  increases  his  risk,  already 
great.  Some  farmers,  in  an  effort  to 
reduce  their  risk,  enter  into  informal 
or  formal  agreements  with  other  agri- 
cultural-related businesses  like  feed 
dealers  and  processors.  Such  an  agree- 
ment may  let  the  related  business  share 
in  management  decisions.  These  ar- 
rangements are  referred  to  as  coordi- 
nated farming. 

Various  forms  of  farm  and  business 
arrangements  have  existed  for  a  long 
time  in  commercial  fruit  and  tree  nut 
production.  Contract  farming  now  ac- 
counts for  about  two-thirds  of  the 
vegetables  produced  for  canning  and 
freezing.  Most  of  today's  broiler  pro- 
duction is  a  joint  undertaking  between 
farmers  and  processors.  Men  employed 
by  the  processor  do  much  of  the  poul- 
try farm  management.  Production  is 
concentrated  in  operations  that  make 
the  fullest  use  of  labor-saving  equip- 
ment. In  this  way,  poultry  raisers  re- 
duce their  risks  and  get  a  guaranteed 
income  for  themselves. 

The  sugar  beet  industry  is  another 
example  of  contract  farming.  Nearly 
all  sugar  beet  growers  have  contracts 
with  processors  to  insure  a  market. 
Sugar  beets  are  heavy,  bulky,  and 
perishable.  They  are  grown  under  con- 
tracts which  guarantee  a  market  for 
farmers  and  supplies  for  the  processor. 
Negotiated  contracts  tie  the  price  of 
the  sugar  beets  to  that  of  sugar.  These 
specify  the  acreage  to  be  planted,  seeds 
and  growing  methods  to  be  used,  dates 
beets  are  to  be  delivered  to  the  proces- 
sor, marketing  practices  to  be  used, 
and  even  when  the  farmer  will  be  paid. 

All  these  changes  calling  for  larger 
investments  and  more  specialization 
have  resulted  in  an  increase  in  effi- 
ciency. Farmers  have  made  the  best 
record  in  this  respect  of  all  our  indus- 
tries. Since  1950,  the  amount  of  work, 
per  man,  per  hour,  working  in  agri- 
culture  has   increased    at   a   rate    of 


nearly  6  percent  a  year  compared  with 
2.5  percent  for  all  other  industries. 
In  other  words,  one  farmer  now  pro- 
duces enough  food  for  almost  three 
times  as  many  persons  as  he  did  back 
in  1950. 

The  share  of  workers  employed  on 
farms  provides  a  good  measure  of  a 
nation's  productivity.  In  our  country, 
only  6  percent  of  the  total  labor  force 
works  on  farms.  This  compares  with 
10  and  18  percent  in  developed  coun- 
tries like  West  Germany  and  France. 
About  40  percent  of  all  Soviet  Union 
workers  are  on  farms.  In  less  developed 
countries  such  as  India  and  Pakistan 
approximately  three-quarters  of  the 
labor  force  works  on  farms. 

What  does  all  this  mean  to  those  of 
us  who  live  in  cities? 

This  abundance  has  helped  raise  our 
standard  of  living  and  to  provide  us 
with  an  unprecedented  quantity,  qual- 
ity, and  variety  of  food  at  the  lowest 
cost  in  relation  to  our  take-home  pay 
in  this  Nation's  history.  This  has  left 
us  more  income  for  other  things — 
houses,  cars,  college  educations. 

A  second  contribution  of  the  con- 
tinuing rise  in  agricultural  produc- 
tivity is  the  release  of  manpower  to 
other  sectors  of  the  economy  where 
they  can  make  significant  contribu- 
tions in  industry,  die  professions,  and 
in  the  defense  efforts  of  our  country. 

The  release  of  manpower  from  our 
farms  had  its  social  and  economic 
costs,  however.  Many  of  the  released 
workers  are  poorly  equipped  in  terms 
of  skills,  education,  and  personal  re- 
sources for  nonfarm  occupations.  As 
workers  move  from  the  farm  to  the 
city,  some  find  the  city  has  little  to 
offer  except  unemployment  or  low 
paying,  insecure  jobs.  They  simply 
add  to  the  already  existing  problems 
of  unemployment  and  poverty. 

A  third  benefit  has  been  the  crea- 
tion of  many  jobs  in  the  nonfarm 
section  of  the  economy.  Farmers  spend 
more  than  $34  billion  a  year  for  goods 
and  services  to  produce  crops  and 
livestock.  Added  to  this,  about  $15 
billion  goes  for  the  same  things  that 
city  people  buy — food,  clothing,  and 

13 


Wheat  combines  on  the  job  in  Nebraska.  Farm  machinery  is  constantly  being  modified  and 

improved. 


other  consumer  products  and  services. 

Every  year  farmers  purchase  prod- 
ucts containing  about  5  million  tons  of 
steel  and  some  320  million  pounds  of 
rubber — enough  to  put  tires  on  nearly 
6  million  automobiles. 

They  use  more  petroleum  than  any 
other  single  industry — and  more  elec- 
tricity than  all  of  the  people  and  in- 
dustries in  Chicago,  Detroit,  Boston, 
Baltimore,  Houston,  and  Washington, 
D.C.,  combined. 

These  are  today's  farms  and  farmers. 

But  what  about  the  future?  What  is 
being  predicted  for  farms  and  farmers? 

It  is  forecast  that  by  the  turn  of 
the  century  the  American  farmer  will 
be  freed  from  the  arduous  and  time- 
consuming  demands  of  planting  and 

14 


harvesting.  Some  see  him  sitting  in  an 
air-conditioned  farm  office,  scanning 
a  printout  from  a  computer  center. 
This  computer  center  will  help  him 
decide  how  many  acres  to  plant,  what 
kinds  of  seeds  to  sow,  what  kind  and 
how  much  fertilizer  to  apply,  exactly 
what  his  soil  composition  is,  and  even 
what  day  to  harvest  each  crop. 

They  foresee  other  things  as  well: 

Automated  machinery  directed  by 
tape-controlled  programs  and  super- 
vised by  television  scanners  mounted 
on  towers. 

Robot  harvesters  to  carry  out  high 
speed  picking,  grading,  packaging,  and 
freezing. 

Crop  yields  per  acre  double  and 
triple  those  of  1969. 


H.  E.  Crowther 


The  Water's 
Harvest  Fish 
of  All  Kinds 
for  Oor  Tables 


The  farmer  must  sow  before  he  can 
reap.  Fishermen  can  reap  without  sow- 
ing, for  most  fish  are  hunted  rather 
than  farmed.  As  with  our  farmers, 
commercial  marine  fishermen  are  af- 
fected by  nature's  whims.  Not  only  are 
they  concerned  about  the  weather,  but 
water  temperatures  and  ocean  currents 
as  well.  The  farmer  can  protect  his 
land  with  a  fence  and  "posted"  signs, 
and  can  brand  his  catde  as  a  sign 
of  ownership.  Coastal  areas  may  be 
"posted"  by  State  regulations,  and 
sections  of  the  ocean  may  be  protected 
by  international  agreement;  but  there 
are  no  fences  in  the  open  sea. 

An  unnetted  fish  has  no  owner  and 
no  nationality.  The  American  fisher- 
man must  take  his  chances,  not  only 
against  the  elements,  but  also  against 
foreign  competition. 

Most  of  our  Nation's  fishing  fleet  is 
made  up  of  small  boats  of  less  than  5 
net  tons.  "Vessels,"  which  are  larger, 
account  for  about  15  percent  of  our 
fleet  of  around  82,000,  and  catch  a 
large  percentage  of  our  fish.  Though 
many  craft  in  our  fleet  are  at  least  20 
years  old,  the  number  of  "vessels"  being 
built  is  increasing.  Recendy,  two  trawl- 
ers were  built,  each  300  feet  long — one 


to  operate  in  the  Adantic,  the  other 
in  the  Pacific.  These  "factory  ships" 
are  the  largest  fishing  vessels  ever  built 
in  the  United  States.  They  are  more 
powerful,  have  wider  range.  Most  ves- 
sels have  been  built  for  shrimp  and 
tuna  fisheries,  the  two  most  prosperous 
segments  of  our  fishing  industry. 

Around  225,000  persons  are  em- 
ployed in  the  marine  fisheries,  about  60 
percent  as  fishermen  and  the  rest  as 
shoreworkers.  The  number  of  these 
employees  has  been  going  down,  even 
though  the  number  of  the  processing 
plants  has  been  increasing. 

The  commercial  marine  fishing  in- 
dustry is  not  a  single  entity.  It  is  a 
combination  of  industries,  and  each 
industry  may  be  broken  down  by 
location — as  the  Maine  shrimp  or 
the  Gulf  shrimp  industry — and  then 
within  these  by  functional  classes — pro- 
ducers (fishermen),  processors,  and 
distributors. 

During  the  last  30  years,  some  major 
changes  have  taken  place.  Catches  of 
Pacific  mackerel,  sardines,  Adantic 
cod,  and  haddock  have  gone  down 
while  landings  of  shrimp,  crab,  clams, 
flounder,  and  tuna  have  increased. 
Generally,  declines  have  been  greatest 
in  the  older  fisheries,  especially  those 
off  the  New  England  and  Pacific 
coasts.  In  1967,  die  Pacific  sardine 
fishery,  once  our  largest,  took  only 
100,000  pounds,  less  than  one-hun- 
dredth of  1  percent  of  the  record  catch 
of  1.5  billion  in  1936.  By  contrast,  the 
Gulf  of  Mexico  and  the  Gulf  of  Alaska 
are  producing  more  than  ever,  and 
their  potential  still  has  not  yet  been 
realized. 

In  1967,  shrimp  fishermen  took  a 
record  catch  of  312  million  pounds 
which  had  a  dockside  value  of  $103 
million.  This  was  the  first  time  that 
domestic  fishermen  had  received  $100 
million  or  more  for  a  single  year's 
harvest.  During  this  same  year,  the 
tuna  industry  had  one  of  its  best  years. 
The  catch  landed  in  the  continental 
United  States  and  in  Hawaii  came  to 


H.  E.  Crowther  is  Director,  Bureau  of  Com- 
mercial Fisheries,  Department  of  the  Interior. 


15 


At  left,  catfish  raised  in  a  big  Mississippi 
fish  farming  operation.  Below,  harvesting 
catfish  at  Louisiana  fish  farm. 


V 


h     e 


S#?SS$ 


329  million  pounds — valued  at  nearly 
$45  million,  the  largest  since  1956. 
The  tuna  fishing  industry  has  over- 
come some  of  its  foreign  competition 
through  improved  efficiency. 

North  Atlantic  and  North  Pacific 
fisheries  have  been  particularly  sus- 
ceptible to  foreign  competition  on  the 
fishing  grounds  and  in  the  market- 
place. Both  haddock  in  the  Adantic 
and  halibut  in  the  Pacific  have  suffered 
the  effects  of  heavy  fishing  by  foreign 
fleets.  Several  years  of  poor  spawning 
have  also  hurt  the  haddock  fishery. 

The  last  decade  has  seen  the  com- 
mercial catch  increasingly  supple- 
mented through  cultivation  of  both 
freshwater  and  saltwater  species.  In 
the  freshwater  "fish-farming,"  pond- 
grown  trout  and  catfish  have 
developed  into  multimillion  dollar  in- 
dustries. On  our  West  Coast,  the 
salmon  released  by  hatcheries  are 
caught  by  sportsmen  and  commercial 
fishermen.  In  estuarine  areas  such  as 
coastal  bays  and  river  mouths,  man- 
aged beds  produce  more  than  half  the 
oysters  harvested  in  the  United  States. 

Shrimp  culture,  already  an  old 
story  in  some  Asiatic  countries,  has 
caught  the  popular  imagination.  All 
along  the  coast,  a  veritable  frenzy  of 
research  by  university  scientists,  gov- 
ernment agencies,  industry,  and  ama- 
teurs is  aimed  at  adding  this  tasty 
crustacean  to  the  list  of  our  "home- 
growns." Work  is  also  being  done  on 
pompano,  clams,  lobsters,  abalone, 
and  mussels. 

While  the  U.S.  catch  has  remained 
relatively  static,  some  of  the  other 
nations  have  increased  theirs  steadily. 
Japan's  catch  is  50  percent  larger  now 
than  it  was  a  decade  ago.  The  Soviet 
Union  has  doubled  its  catch.  Peru  has 
become  one  of  the  leading  fishery 
nations  with  nearly  20  billion  pounds 
a  year — a  fourfold  increase  within  the 
past  10  years.  It  has  made  dramatic 
strides  in  its  anchovy  fishery. 


The  United  States,  with  less  than 
7  percent  of  the  world  population, 
uses  about  1 1  percent  of  the  world's 
catch  of  fish — including  around  44 
percent  of  the  tuna  and  about  35 
percent  of  the  world's  shrimp. 

About  70  percent  of  all  our  fish  and 
shellfish  is  brought  in  from  other 
countries — about  60  percent  of  the 
tuna,  50  percent  of  the  shrimp,  and 
90  percent  of  the  spiny  lobster. 

In  recent  years,  total  utilization  of 
fish  in  the  United  States  has  climbed 
steadily.  The  total  supplies  (domestic 
catch  plus  imports)  in  1957  were 
slightly  above  7  billion  pounds,  but 
by  1967  this  had  increased  to  more 
than  14  billion  pounds,  a  new  record. 
Edible  fishery  products  made  up 
approximately  36  percent  of  the  1967 
figure,  and  the  rest  went  into  indus- 
trial uses,  primarily  as  a  rapid  growth 
additive  in  poultry  and  cattle  feed. 

Commercial  fishing,  like  agricul- 
ture and  other  industries,  has  its 
expanding  and  contracting  sectors. 
Government  and  industry  are  taking 
advantage  of  the  latest  scientific  and 
technological  advances.  And  improved 
transportation  facilities  are  making 
fresh,  wholesome  products  available 
to  expanded  markets.  Considerable 
research  effort  is  being  directed  to- 
ward the  discovery  and  development 
of  new  fishery  resources — a  new  shrimp 
fishery  off  the  coast  of  Maine — a 
scallop  fishery  off  Alaska  with  a  high 
rate  of  catch  and  high  prices — ex- 
tensive calico  scallop  beds  off  the 
eastern  coast  of  Florida — encourage- 
ment of  the  tanner  crab  fishery  to 
partly  offset  the  reduced  abundance  of 
the  King  crab. 

Still,  although  Americans  seem  to 
enjoy  eating  fish,  and  although  the 
United  States  is  one  of  the  world's 
most  attractive  markets,  our  narrow 
preferences  make  it  difficult  for  any 
new  fishery  products  to  be  developed 
quickly  or  easily. 


17 


Frederick  D.  Gray 

That  Coffee 
From  Brazil, 
and  Other 
Food  Imports 


Have  you  ever  wondered,  as  you  drank 
your  cup  of  coffee  or  tea,  and  sprinkled 
cinnamon  on  your  toast  or  pepper  on 
your  steak,  where  they  came  from? 
These  foods  have  been  around  so  long 
that  you  probably  don't  realize  they 
may  have  traveled  halfway  across  the 
world  to  get  to  your  kitchen! 

But  coffee,  tea,  and  spices  are  only 
a  few  of  the  many  products  we  buy 
from  150  countries  around  the  globe. 
Our  food  imports  amount  to  more 
than  $3  billion  each  year.  They  repre- 
sent about  13  percent  of  all  agricul- 
tural goods  we  buy  abroad.  Only  the 
United  Kingdom  and  West  Germany 
import  more  food  than  we  do.  About 
two-fifths  of  our  agricultural  imports 
are  products  we  don't  raise  in  this 
country.  Besides  coffee,  tea,  and  spices, 
our  imports  include  cocoa,  sugar, 
bananas,  beef  and  pork,  and  some 
dairy  products  such  as  cheese. 

Coffee  is  the  most  important  food 
brought  into  this  country.  As  one  of 
the  world's  biggest  coffee  drinkers,  we 
buy  nearly  half  the  world's  supply. 
Over  a  billion  dollars  a  year  is  spent 
to  supply  each  of  us  with  an  average 
of  750  cups  of  coffee  a  year. 

Two  major  types  are  imported — the 

18 


milder  flavored  Arabica  varieties, 
primarily  grown  in  Central  and  South 
America,  and  more  strongly  flavored 
Robusta  varieties  from  Africa  and 
Asia.  The  milder  Arabica  varieties 
are  used  in  roasted  blends  and  repre- 
sent about  three-quarters  of  all  coffee 
imports.  Robusta  varieties  are  largely 
used  in  instant  coffees.  But  recendy, 
increasing  quantities  are  being  used  in 
roasted  blends  as  well. 

Though  we  can't  compete  with  the 
English,  we  still  drink  a  lot  of  tea,  at 
least  iced  tea — 143  million  pounds  of 
tea  a  year  or  nearly  $60  million  worth. 
About  half  of  our  tea  comes  from 
far-off  Ceylon — the  island  which  the 
inhabitants  maintain  was  really  the 
locale  of  the  Garden  of  Eden.  Some 
tea  comes  from  Japan  where  it  may 
have  been  grown  on  hillsides  facing 
beautiful  Mount  Fujiyama.  Both  black 
and  green  teas  are  imported.  The  more 
completely  fermented  black  teas  repre- 
sent most  of  what  we  consume. 

Even  more  important  than  tea  are 
imports  of  cocoa  beans  and  semiproc- 
essed  cocoa  and  chocolate  products. 
Each  year  the  total  imports  amount  to 
nearly  $200  million.  More  than  half 
of  the  cocoa  beans  come  from  Africa ; 
most  of  the  rest  are  from  Central  and 
South  America.  In  general,  there  are 
two  types,  the  regular  beans  which 
account  for  95  percent  of  the  imports 
and  the  flavor  beans.  This  latter  type, 
though  small  in  quantity,  sells  for 
premium  prices.  The  largest  share  of 
these  products — 85  percent — is  used 
for  candies,  sirups,  and  similar  items. 

Sugar  is  the  second  most  important 
food  shipped  into  this  country.  Each 
year  we  import  nearly  half  the  sugar 
we  use — over  5  million  tons  at  a  cost 
of  more  than  $600  million.  Latin 
America  supplies  over  half  of  this,  the 
Philippines  around  a  fourth. 

Altogether  we  take  about  20  percent 
of  the  sugar  that  moves  in  world  trade. 
Most  of  it  is  cane  sugar,  which  typi- 
cally comes  in  as  raw  sugar,  and  then  is 


Frederick  D.  Gray  is  an  Agricultural  Economist 
in  the  Food  Consumption  and  Utilization  Section, 
Economic  Research  Service. 


"refined"  to  different  stages — some  to 
molasses,  some  to  brown  sugar,  and 
some  to  the  granulated  sugar  we  buy 
at  the  grocery. 

Bananas  are  another  important  food 
from  abroad.  In  one  year's  time,  we 
buy  nearly  4  billion  pounds  at  a  cost 
of  over  $175  million.  We  take  almost 
a  third  of  the  bananas  shipped  in 
world  trade — most  of  which  come  to 
us  from  Central  and  South  America. 
Even  though  we've  been  eating  smaller 
quantities  of  fresh  fruits  in  recent 
years,  our  purchases  of  bananas  have 
changed  little.  Bananas  are  used 
in  larger  quantities — 18  pounds  per 
person — than  any  other  fresh  fruit. 

Without  spices,  much  of  our  food 
would  be  dull  and  tasteless.  Although 
these  products  are  important  to  us, 
their  cost,  by  comparison,  is  relatively 
small — about  $45  million  a  year. 
Black  pepper  leads  the  list.  Others 
used  in  large  quantities  include  mus- 
tard seed,  vanilla  beans,  cloves,  cin- 
namon, nutmeg,  and  ginger.  In  addi- 
tion, we  buy  poppy  seeds  and  sage  and 
the  less  familiar  capsicum,  coriander 
and  cummin  seeds,  and  tumeric. 

Our  other  food  imports  include 
fruits  and  livestock  products.  Beef  im- 
ports total  around  1  million  pounds 
annually  valued  at  over  $400  million, 
while  pork  imports  are  typically  val- 
ued near  $200  million.  Much  of  our 
beef  comes  from  Australia,  some  from 
Argentina;  canned  hams  and  bacon 
are  brought  in  from  Denmark.  Even 
so,  imports  of  livestock  products  are 
small  in  total  compared  to  purchases 
of  crop  products. 

There  are  a  host  of  imports  that 
complement  what  we  produce,  some 
that  add  to  our  selection,  and  still 
others  that  provide  gourmet  touches 
to  our  meals.  There  are  watermelons, 
cantaloups,  tomatoes,  peppers,  onions, 
and  garlic  from  nearby  Mexico.  We 
bring  in  canned  tomatoes  and  tomato 
concentrates  from  Italy  and  canned 
pineapple  from  far-off  Taiwan.  Cashew 


Picking  coffee  tree  cherries  in  Latin  America.  It 
takes  nearly  2,000  cherries  to  provide  enough 
beans  for  a  pound  of  roasted  coffee. 


nuts  come  from  India,  pistachios  from 
Iran,  filberts  from  Turkey,  pignolias 
from  Spain,  and  brazil  nuts  from  Bra- 
zil (where  else!). 

Then  there  are  such  gourmet  items 
as  caviar  from  Russia,  cheeses  from 
the  Scandinavian  countries  and  Swit- 
zerland, bread  from  Syria,  ludefisk 
from  Norway,  and  turtle  and  elephant 
meat  from  other  far-off  lands. 

Our  farmers  and  fishermen,  and 
those  from  other  countries  around  the 
world,  have  provided  us  with  a  de- 
pendable supply  of  high-quality  food. 
They  are  the  ones  who  start  our  food 
through  marketing  channels  and  on  its 
way  to  our  tables,  at  home  and  away 
from  home. 


John  0.  Gerald 


Food  on  the  Go: 
The  Long  Haul 
From  Farm  to 
Shopping  Bag 


Few  of  us  realize  the  importance  of 
the  efficient  transportation  system  we 
have  in  this  country.  It  is  a  major 
reason  why  we  can  buy  most  of  the 
same  foods  in  a  small  town  grocery  as 
in  a  city  supermarket;  it  is  why  we  can 
have  ripe  tomatoes  in  February  and 
fresh  pork  in  July  in  any  part  of  our 
country. 

Without  distribution,  production 
would  be  useless  in  our  land  of  vast 
distances;  differences  in  climate,  ter- 
rain, soil  and  crop  specialization;  and 
concentration  of  people  in  urban  areas. 

Every  year,  our  transporters  carry 
about  375  million  tons  of  products  off 
our  farms.  Less  than  6  million  tons  of 
these  are  tobacco,  wool,  and  cotton; 
the  remainder  is  food  and  feed  for 
livestock.  Some  of  our  food  is  exported, 
but  most  goes  up  and  down  and  across 
our  country.  Sometimes  the  journey  is 
direct,  even  when  it's  from  coast  to 
coast.  Other  times,  it  can  be  very 
roundabout — from  farm  to  local  buy- 
ers, to  processing  plants,  and  on  to 
warehouses,  wholesalers,  and  finally, 
to  a  supermarket  or  a  plush  restaurant 
on  the  upper  east  side  of  New  York 
City,  to  cite  an  example. 

Specialization  of  products  by  region 

20 


benefits  us  all  as  well  as  farmers.  But 
it  wouldn't  be  feasible  without  depend- 
able and  rapid  means  of  transporta- 
tion. The  cost  would  be  prohibitive. 
With  our  system  today,  however,  in- 
tercity transportation  takes  only  about 
6  cents  of  each  dollar  we  spend  for 
food.  And  for  this  we  get  untold  variety 
along  with  the  benefit  of  savings  that 
come  from  the  large  scale  production, 
processing,  and  marketing  of  food. 

Our  efficient  transportation  system 
didn't  just  happen  nor  did  it  develop 
overnight.  Until  railroads  crossed  our 
country  and  later  built  lines  to  small 
cities  and  towns,  food  raised  on  farms 
was  eaten  by  the  farm  family,  with  any 
that  was  left  over  being  sold  nearby. 
What  was  eaten  differed  greatly  from 
place  to  place,  depending  on  what  was 
produced  locally.  Families  in  towns 
raised  much  of  their  own  vegetables, 
and  usually  some  chickens,  hogs,  and 
a  cow  or  two.  When  the  railroads 
came,  more  and  more  people  moved 
to  cities.  Then — and  only  then — we 
began  to  develop  our  present  food  dis- 
tribution system.  This  was  only  about 
a  century  ago. 

With  the  invention  of  the  horseless 
carriage,  small  trucks  became  avail- 
able. This  made  it  possible  for  farmers 
to  bring  their  products  to  the  nearest 
railroad  in  a  much  shorter  time  than 
with  old  Dobbin  hitched  to  a  wagon. 
As  trucks  got  larger  and  roads  better, 
loads  were  carried  longer  distances. 
Then  along  came  airplanes,  and  now 
the  giant  jets  are  carrying  some  food 
products. 

Types  of  transportation  vary  wide- 
ly— from  small  trucks  to  huge  vans, 
from  a  single  freight  car  to  an  entire 
train  loaded  with  one  product,  from 
a  section  of  a  passenger  plane  to  a 
giant  superjet  freighter,  from  a  small 
barge  to  a  seagoing  merchant  ship. 

At  times,  food  may  be  transported 
from  farm  to  supermarket  in  the  same 
vehicle.  More  often,  however,  it  will 
travel  by  more  than  one  and,  even,  by 


John  O.  Gerald  is  Leader  of  the  Transporta- 
tion Research  Group,  Marketing  Economics  Divi- 
sion, Economic  Research  Service. 


several  different  types.  This  means 
the  cargo  is  likely  to  be  transferred 
between  vehicles  one  or  more  times 
on  the  way.  Because  speed  and  effi- 
ciency are  important  in  getting  most 
foods  to  their  destination  at  a  reason- 
able cost,  there  has  been  a  rapid 
development  of  what  is  called  "palleti- 
zation." This  consists  of  packing  bags 
or  cartons  on  a  sledlike  base  that  can 
be  lifted  and  moved  quickly  and  easily 
with  a  forklift  truck.  The  chief  ad- 
vantage is  that  a  product  can  be 
packed  at  the  shipping  point,  trans- 
ferred into  warehouses  or  between 
vehicles  one  or  more  times,  and  not 
be  unpacked  until  it  reaches  its  des- 
tination. As  a  result,  handling  costs 
are  lower. 

"Containerization"  is  a  further  re- 
finement of  palletization,  and  will 
likely  grow  in  the  future.  It  is  the 
putting  of  many  small  bags  or  cartons 
into  one  large  container  such  as  truck 
trailers  without  wheels. 

Some  products  may  require  special 
equipment  to  control  the  temperature 
and  humidity.  This  is  especially  true 
for  fresh  produce.  Air  must  be  circu- 
lated to  remove  heat  from  the  fruit  or 
vegetables  and  the  small  amount  that 
comes  through  the  insulated  walls  of 
the  van,  or  car,  or  container.  Humidity 
must  be  controlled  to  prevent  drying 
or  even  the  other  extreme,  too  much 
moisture.  Then,  too,  the  temperatures 
must  be  controlled  automatically  for 
foods  needing  ordinary  refrigeration 
and,  at  other  times,  for  frozen  foods. 
Foods  like  eggs  and  potatoes  have  to  be 
heated  in  winter  to  prevent  freezing. 

In  recent  years,  the  pace  of  change 
in  our  modes  of  transportation  has 
been  speeded  up  by  better  communica- 
tions— more  roads,  airfields,  and  even 
telephones  and  communication  satel- 
lites. Roads  span  the  country  and  air- 
fields seem  to  be  everywhere.  Tele- 
phones at  our  elbows  and  wire  services 
let  marketing  men  know  where  they 
can  buy  and  farmers  where  they  can 
sell  their  foods.  This  eliminates  haul- 
ing many  products  to  faraway  places 
and  bringing  them  back  to  the  same 
locality. 


ANATOMY  OF  FOOD  MARKETING 


Kw&hMw; 


WmMM 

dog 

Institution*  ; 


T 


RCTA1L&6 
,    &operatte 
Sufurmertttf 
Comr  Crfowiy  "5te« 

y  *  -'.■;-/■  Machines  ! 


^■^k    s 


mm&;i 


Stockyards 
i  Packing  sited  OpotMjwjt 


ifiiiips 


PARM 


1 


PufeftMng 


OtitllMtitilt 


TRANSPORTATION 
I 


Communications  also  help  in  time 
of  emergencies.  For  example,  an  egg 
shipper  in  North  Carolina  or  Georgia 
may  receive  word  from  his  buyer-to-be 
that  a  major  wreck  on  the  Pennsyl- 
vania Turnpike  will  delay  the  arrival 
of  a  few  truckloads  of  eggs  from  Ohio 
that  are  needed  for  weekend  customers 
in  New  York  City.  The  shipper  can 
reroute  to  New  York  his  shipments  of 
eggs  going  to  Wilmington,  Del.  When 
the  wreck  on  the  Turnpike  is  cleared 
away,  the  eggs  from  Ohio  can  be  sent 
to  Wilmington.  Customers  in  both 
cities  will  have  eggs  and  will  be  un- 
aware of  all  these  "behind-the-scenes" 
maneuvers.  This  kind  of  diversion-in- 
transit  is  common  for  highly  perish- 
able foods. 

The  railroads  and  truck  lines  have 
begun  to  use  computers  to  keep  track 
of  freight  cars,  trailers,  and  van  con- 
tainers. Shippers  and  carriers  soon 
will  have  almost  up-to-the-minute  re- 
ports on  the  location  of  their  equip- 
ment and  shipments.  A  computer  will 
receive  these  requests  and  send  on  the 
reports. 

21 


Railroads  are  testing  another  use  of 
computers,  that  of  matching  up  the 
supply  of  freight  cars — location,  type, 
and  condition — with  demand.  Using 
their  1.8  million  cars  more  fully  for 
transport  will  be  just  like  increasing 
the  number. 

Recently,  an  experiment  was  tried 
in  an  attempt  to  cut  down  on  the 
delay  of  goods  at  international  bound- 
aries. To  speed  the  products  through 
customs,  documentary  information 
needed  to  clear  incoming  cargo  was 
transmitted  by  communications  satel- 
lite from  Frankfurt  in  Germany  to  the 
Dulles  International  Airport  near 
Washington,  D.C  The  paperwork  was 
processed  well  in  advance  of  the 
plane's  arrival  and  customs  clearance 
cut  to  a  minimum.  In  the  years  ahead, 
computer  and  punch  card  may  be 
teamed  up  with  communications  satel- 
lite to  eliminate  most  of  the  paperwork 
that  causes  delays. 

Such  use  of  telephones,  computers, 
and  even  satellites  help  cut  transport 
costs  and  speed  up  the  movement  of 
products.  They  are  particularly  im- 
portant for  foods  when  a  quick  trip 
is  essential  to  effective  marketing. 

Trains,  trucks,  planes,  barges,  and 
ships  have  their  best  function,  but  each 
is  different  in  some  respect.  So  let's 
see  how  they  help  in  moving  food. 

Freight  cars  were  the  earliest  form 
used  for  long-distance  overland  haul- 
ing of  large  quantities  of  products 
from  one  city  to  another.  These  could 
be  loaded  in  California  and  unloaded 
in  Chicago,  all  the  while  traveling 
over  several  different  railway  systems. 
Or  the  cars  could  be  transferred  at 
some  point  in  between  to  other  rail- 
way lines  and  then  travel  to  the  north 
or  south. 

At  first,  freight  cars  were  simple 
boxcars.  Today  many  of  them  are 
complex  and  specialized.  We  have 
refrigerated  cars  50  to  60  feet  long  in 
which  temperature  and  humidity  are 
automatically  controlled.  Thermostats 
can  be  set  so  that  fresh  foods  can  be 
kept  cool  but  above  freezing  one  way 
and  frozen  food  can  be  kept  frozen  on 
the  return  trip. 

22 


Insulated  cars  prevent  temperature 
and  humidity  extremes  and  specially 
constructed  cars  can  handle  60,000 
pounds  of  bulk  potatoes  with  a  mini- 
mum of  bruising. 

A  growing  service  is  the  "trailer-on- 
flatcar,"  or  "piggyback"  service  as  it's 
usually  called.  Flatcars  transport  huge 
highway  trailers  for  long  distances.  It 
takes  only  a  few  minutes  to  lift  and 
anchor  two  or  three  trailers  on  the 
flatcar,  and  the  same  amount  of  time 
to  lift  them  off.  Giant  cranes  that 
straddle  two  rail  tracks  pick  them  up, 
convey  them  to  the  side  of  the  tracks, 
and  set  them  down  for  a  tractor  to 
haul  away. 

Some  large  containers — big  enough 
to  be  vans  but  without  wheels — are 
also  carried  upon  flatcars.  These  are 
lifted  on  and  off  and  placed  on  flat 
trucks  for  the  rest  of  their  journey. 

Large  covered  hopper  cars  are  a 
fairly  recent  development.  These  can 
carry  up  to  100  tons  of  grain,  sugar, 
flour,  or  other  products  in  bulk.  They 
are  loaded  through  top  hatches.  When 
the  hatches  are  closed,  there  is  less 
chance  of  contamination  and  loss  than 
is  true  of  open  hoppers.  After  the  cars 
reach  their  destination,  they  are  un- 
loaded by  opening  gates  which  permit 
the  product  to  flow  out  through  grills 
into  a  pit  where  conveyors  scoop  it  up 
and  carry  it  to  storage  elevators,  bins, 
or  mills. 

Not  to  be  overlooked  is  the  "train 
with  a  one-track  mind"  or  the  "unit 
train."  This  is  a  complete  train  loaded 
with  a  single  kind  of  product,  and  sent 
to  its  ultimate  destination  without 
stopping  at  intermediate  freight  yards. 
Though  so  far  these  have  been  used 
primarily  for  coal,  their  use  to  ship 
grain  from  the  Plains  States  to  milling 
and  export  centers  has  been  increasing. 

Trucking  is  a  big  business  today. 
Trucks  can  be  equipped  to  haul  a 
wide  variety  of  products.  They  can 
start  foods  on  their  way  at  the  farm 
gate  and  bring  them  to  us  from  our 
home-delivery  grocery.  They  have 
changed  the  way  many  foods  move 
to  market.  For  example,  all  cattle  used 
to  go   by  rail  to  die  great  central 


markets  such  as  Chicago,  Omaha,  and 
Kansas  City.  Today,  many  packers 
have  shifted  to  smaller  plants  located 
closer  to  livestock-producing  areas  and 
cattle  are  brought  in  by  truck.  Some 
of  these  trucks,  called  "  possum-bellies, ' ' 
have  three  levels  and  can  haul  from 
40  to  50  live  steers  or  100  calves  in 
a  single  load.  Others,  for  hauling  up 
to  100  hogs,  have  sprinkling  equip- 
ment installed  for  keeping  the  hogs 
from  becoming  overheated  and  dying. 
A  cool  hog  is  a  perky  porker. 

Nearly  all  hogs  are  shipped  by  truck 
today  and  a  large  share  of  cattle  and 
calves.  After  the  animals  are  slaugh- 
tered at  the  plants,  the  carcasses  are 
shipped  to  markets  in  specially  de- 
signed refrigerated  trucks  or  railcars. 

Milk  is  delivered  to  large  cities  in 
big  bulk  milk  trucks.  This  is  quite  a 
change  from  earlier  days  when  milk 
was  taken  to  the  nearest  milk  depot 
in  metal  cans.  These  cans  had  to  be 
stored,  sterilized,  filled,  and  loaded  on 
trucks  by  farmers.  At  the  receiving 
plants,  the  same  operation  had  to  be 
done  in  reverse. 

Now  farmers  have  lines  running 
from  milking  machines  to  a  refriger- 
ated tank.  Each  day  or  two,  a  large 
tank  truck  comes  by,  pumps  the  milk 
out  of  the  farmer's  tank,  and  takes  it 
to  the  receiving  plant.  There  it  is 
pumped  again  into  various  containers 
for  further  processing.  On  its  journey 
from  cow  to  final  container,  it  hasn't 
been  lifted  once  manually  or  touched 
by  human  hands. 

This  shows  only  what  happens  be- 
tween the  dairy  farm  and  its  market — 
the  processing  plant.  Some  milk  may 
be  sent  in  bulk  a  thousand  miles  or 
more,  sometimes  as  far  as  from  Wis- 
consin to  Georgia  or  Alaska. 

The  newest  method  being  used  for 
transporting  food  is  the  cargo  plane. 
The  volume  of  food  being  shipped  by 
air  is  still  less  than  1  percent  of  the 
total.  Recently,  around  25  million 
pounds  per  year  of  fruits  and  vege- 
tables, mosdy  strawberries,  were  flown 
from  California  to  large  cities — some 
as  distant  as  Frankfurt,  Germany. 
Other  fruits  and  vegetables  that  were 


flown  to  market  included  cherries, 
apricots,  figs,  asparagus,  lettuce,  nec- 
tarines, and  more  recently,  carrots, 
celery,  and  oranges. 

Occasionally,  frozen  foods  and  meat, 
poultry,  eggs,  and  seafood  have  also 
been  sent  by  air. 

Though  the  cost  of  shipping  food  by 
air  is  still  high,  there  are  some  advan- 
tages to  sending  perishables  this  way. 
The  shorter  travel  time  cuts  down  on 
spoilage,  less  expensive  packaging  is 
required,  and  shipping  damage  is  apt 
to  be  less.  Airlines  are  attempting  to 
reduce  air  shipment  costs. 

Barges  and  ships  continue  to  trans- 
port large  quantities  of  food — particu- 
larly grains  and  sugar — on  our  inland 
waterways  and  across  the  seas.  These 
carriers  also  can  make  use  of  containers 
to  speed  food  along. 

New  procedures  that  are  being  tried 
by  shipping  companies  include  the  so- 
called  LASH  (lighter  aboard  ship)  ves- 
sels. These  are  large  ships  which  can 
carry  30  or  more  barges,  each  being 
around  100  feet  long  and  holding 
about  850  long  tons  of  cargo.  This 
makes  it  possible  for  barges  to  be 
loaded  at  river  or  other  shallow  water 
ports,  towed  out  to  deep  water  ports 
and  put  aboard  seagoing  ships.  When 
the  ship  reaches  a  foreign  port,  these 
same  barges  are  unloaded  and  then 
towed  again  to  shallow  water  ports. 
This  method  tends  to  reduce  the  cost 
of  transporting  food. 

These  are  the  carriers  of  our  food — 
the  vehicles  and  workers  that  keep 
supplies  moving.  They  are  a  necessary 
part  of  our  modern  food  system  that 
keeps  us  supplied  with  the  gigantic 
abundance  of  food  that  we  seem  to 
take  for  granted.  Probably  we'd  real- 
ize rather  quickly,  and  quite  painfully, 
what  all  this  means  to  those  of  us  who 
live  in  cities  if,  all  of  a  sudden,  these 
vehicles  stopped  running.  Just  try, 
for  a  minute,  to  imagine  what  you 
would  do  if,  without  any  warning,  all 
food  stores  and  public  eating  places 
were  to  close  for  a  week  or  even  longer 
because  all  the  trains,  planes,  trucks, 
barges,  and  ships  had  come  to  a 
complete  standstill. 

23 


Kermit  Bird 


Food  Processors 
and  Packagers 
Put  a  New  Cook 
In  Your  Kitchen 


On  a  Thursday  night,  in  a  super- 
market, in  the  town  that  could  be 
yours,  the  wonderwork  of  our  modern 
food  processing  system  unfolded  and 
came  true.  The  shopping  and  the  sales 
transactions  which  took  place  in  that 
store  are  a  culmination  of  modern 
man's  endeavor  to  feed  himself.  Much 
of  the  miracle  is  a  result  of  hard  work, 
man's  ingenuity,  and  the  application 
of  scientific  techniques  to  food  process- 
ing. Perhaps  observing  a  young  couple 
in  a  supermarket  will  provide  us  with 
a  greater  understanding  and  appreci- 
ation of  our  big  U.S.  food  processing 
system. 

Our  young  couple,  who  had  been 
pushing  their  grocery  cart  through  the 
aisles  of  the  supermarket,  approached 
the  checkout  stand.  The  wife  made  a 
last-minute  check  of  her  shopping  list 
while  her  husband  stacked  the  revolv- 
ing counter  with  their  weekly  pur- 
chases— a  large  can  of  tomato  juice,  a 
pliofilm-wrapped  sirloin  steak,  a  small 
frozen  turkey,  a  box  of  instant  mashed 
potatoes,  and  some  fresh  carrots.  Be- 
side these  he  placed  a  package  of 
frozen  broccoli-in-a-bag  with  a  cheese 
sauce,  assorted  frozen  dinners,  a  loaf 
of  sliced  white  bread,  a  box  filled  with 

24 


envelopes  of  instant  oatmeal  flavored 
with  apple  and  cinnamon,  a  half  gal- 
lon carton  of  low-fat  milk,  and  a  quart 
of  sherbet. 

As  more  room  on  the  counter  be- 
came available,  he  unloaded  the  rest 
of  the  groceries — a  large  jar  of  instant 
coffee,  a  small  jar  of  ripe  olives, 
barbecue-flavored  corn  chips,  assorted 
other  groceries,  and  some  miscellane- 
ous nonfood  items. 

The  couple  ended  this  phase  of  their 
grocery  shopping,  and  as  the  items 
were  being  added  up  on  the  cash 
register,  their  thoughts  appeared  to 
dwell  solely  on  how  the  foods  were  to 
be  used  and  the  prices  of  the  various 
items.  Mentally,  the  housewife  planned 
her  next  week's  meals  and  hoped  that 
nothing  had  been  overlooked;  her 
husband  considered  whether  he  had 
enough  cash  to  pay  for  the  mounting 
pile.  At  the  moment,  both  seemed 
unaware  of  the  "what"  they  were 
buying;  of  what  they  were  really  get- 
ting as  they  bought  their  groceries. 
Was  it  just  the  stack  of  food  now  being 
arranged  in  large  brown  bags,  or  was 
there  more  to  this  week's  supply  of 
groceries  than  meets  the  eye? 

Actually,  with  each  food  item,  they 
had  bought  some  of  each  of  the  fol- 
lowing ingredients: 

-the  food. 

-preparation  of  the  food. 

-processing:  canning,  freezing,  dry- 
ing, pickling. 

-seasonings,  preservatives,  and  fla- 
vorings. 

-equipment  used  in  preparation  and 
processing. 

-maintenance  of  the  equipment. 

-care  needed  to  conform  with  health 
and  sanitation  standards. 

-research  to  develop  and  perfect  the 
product. 

-packaging  materials,  with  their 
associated  labor  and  equipment. 

-transportation,  storage,-  and  food 
handling. 


Kermit  Bird  is  an  Agricultural  Economist  in  the 
Marketing  Economics  Division  of  the  Economic 
Research  Service. 


Many  things  had  been  done  to  each 
food  since  it  left  the  farm.  Even  the 
fresh  carrots  had  been  topped,  washed, 
packaged,  and  kept  cool.  Other  foods 
had  undergone  much  more  processing. 
Some,  like  the  frozen  broccoli,  were 
prepared  in  a  sauce  and  ready  to  cook. 
The  olives  had  gone  through  long 
pickling  stages.  The  jar  of  freeze-dried 
coffee,  so  casually  selected  from  the 
shelf,  had  gone  through  many  involved 
steps — roasting,  brewing,  evaporating, 
dehydrating,  and  packaging. 

Our  young  couple  may  not  realize 
the  multitude  of  food  choices  they 
have.  Main  courses  previously  availa- 
ble only  in  restaurants  can  now  be 
everyday  items.  Most  any  new  bride 
can  serve  a  variety  of  foods  her  mother 
never  dared  attempt!  The  saying  was 
never  truer  than  now  that,  "If  you  can 
read  and  follow  directions,  you  can  be 
a  wonderful  cook."  How  did  this  come 
about?  What  miracle  has  made  it  pos- 
sible for  this  young  couple  to  buy  so 
much  variety  in  their  neighborhood 
store?  How  has  food  processing  in- 
fluenced our  food  marketing  system? 

Food  processing,  or  food  "manu- 
facturing," is  a  multi-billion-dollar 
industry.  Even  more  impressive  than 
size  is  its  complexity.  Food  processing 
includes  pasteurizing,  homogenizing, 
standardizing,  and  bottling  of  fresh 
milk.  Freezing,  canning,  drying,  pick- 
ling, curing,  and  salting  are  commonly 
used  techniques.  Blending,  seasoning, 
and  preserving  are  part  of  what  takes 
place  as  are  grading,  inspection,  and 
labeling.  Packaging  is  another  im- 
portant function. 

In  short,  food  processing  is  all  the 
things  that  make  our  foods  easier  and 
safer  to  use. 

Food  processing  generally  involves 
altering  the  composition  or  character 
of  a  food  in  some  way.  Processing 
usually  makes  the  raw  products  more 
marketable  by  various  kinds  of  treat- 
ment. But  even  before  food  can  be 
processed,  there  is  equipment  to  be 
thought  of,  designed,  built,  and  in- 
stalled. Afterward,  this  machinery  has 
to  be  kept  immaculately  clean. 
The  processing  industry  uses   the 


labor  and  talents  of  thousands  upon 
thousands  of  people  with  a  wide  range 
of  capabilities.  Processed  products  are 
advertised  and  promoted  so  people 
like  our  young  shoppers  know  they 
exist.  To  show  how  this  system  works, 
let's  follow  the  procedures  used  in 
making  a  familiar,  everyday  product — 
the  bread  we  eat. 

Would  your  grandmother  have 
believed  it,  when  she  was  a  girl,  if  she 
had  been  told  that  someday  a  series 
of  coordinated  machines  would  bake 
13,000  loaves  of  bread  per  hour?  To 
produce  four  loaves  of  bread,  grandma 
had  to  sift  the  flour  by  hand,  mix  the 
ingredients,  raise,  punch  down  and 
knead,  shape  into  loaves,  let  raise 
again,  and  then  bake  them  about  an 
hour.  The  whole  process  would  take 
5  to  6  hours,  or  about  1%  to  1  %  hours 
a  loaf.  The  machines  we  will  talk 
about  bake  more  bread  in  an  hour 
than  she  baked  in  her  whole  life. 

The  aroma  of  fresh-baked  bread 
may  make  one  nostalgic,  but  like 
other  memories  of  the  past,  we  forget 
the  drudgery  and  the  failures.  In  the 
case  of  homemade  bread,  we  don't 
recall  the  coarse  loaves  full  of  holes, 
or  those  with  soggy  centers.  Burned 
crusts  are  forgotten.  True,  we  may 
no  longer  be  able  to  enjoy  the  aroma 
of  home-baked  bread,  but  neither  do 
we  have  to  spend  the  better  part  of 
one  or  two  days  each  week  baking — 
unless,  of  course,  we  want  to. 

In  most  large  bakeries  today,  bread 
is  made  automatically  from  start  to 
finish.  Imagine,  for  example,  a  bakery 
as  large  as  two  football  fields.  Here 
flour  and  the  other  baking  ingredients 
go  in  one  end  of  a  series  of  integrated 
machines,  disappear  from  view,  and 
emerge  at  the  other  end  as  fully  baked 
bread  ready  for  cooling,  wrapping, 
and  delivery.  These  items  of  equip- 
ment and  their  associated  techniques 
are  called  the  "continuous-mix"  proc- 
ess. "Continuous"  means  that  the 
ingredients,  dough,  and  loaves  flow 
in  a  stream  rather  than  in  batches, 
as  was  the  case  in  previous  bread- 
making  systems.  Let's  see  how  the  idea 
works. 

25 


Train  crews  shuttle  freight  cars 
loaded  with  flour  into  the  receiving 
section  of  the  building  where  the  flour 
is  siphoned  off  into  high  storage  silos. 
Upon  a  signal  from  one  computer, 
quantities  of  flour  move  to  interior 
silos.  Computer  No.  2  directs  flour 
to  mixers  that  "shimmy"  when  told 
to  do  so. 

Even  before  the  flour  has  started  to 
shimmy,  a  "brew"  is  prepared  to  en- 
courage the  dough  to  raise.  Brew  con- 
sists of  a  ferment  yeast,  liquid  lard, 
liquid  sugar,  and  a  liquid  softener  to 
help  keep  bread  fresh  after  baking. 
The  newly  made  brew  goes  to  a  spe- 
cial "proofing"  room  to  raise.  After 
being  drawn  out  of  the  tanks,  other 
machines  add  weighed  quantities  of 
flour.  Then  special  machines  whirl  this 
doughy  mixture  around  and  around 
until  it  reaches  a  desired  consistency. 
Enormous  vessels  convey  it  to  molding 
machines. 

Molding  machines  whirl  the  exact 
quantity  of  dough  needed  for  each 
loaf  and  then  drop  each  portion  down 
a  conveyor  into  another  set  of  machin- 
ery. This  equipment  flattens  the  ball 
of  dough,  shapes  it  into  a  loaf,  and 
drops  it  into  a  pan.  After  a  controlled 
period  of  time,  conveyors  carry  many 
of  these  pans  of  dough  to  gigantic 
ovens.  Upon  a  predetermined  signal, 
thousands  of  loaves  of  bread  are 
baked.  Conveyors  take  the  bread  to 
coolers,  to  bread  slicers,  and  then  to 
automatic  wrappers  and  baggers. 

But  this  isn't  all.  Wrapped  bread 
travels  by  conveyor  belts  to  the  load- 
ing area  where  trucks  stand  in  line 
waiting  to  take  the  newly  baked  bread 
to  grocery  stores,  hotels,  restaurants, 
and  many  other  away-from-home  eat- 
ing places. 

This  sounds  easy — as  if  bakers  should 
or  could  have  been  making  bread  this 
way  for  ages.  Not  so!  Developing  a 
new  system  hasn't  been  that  simple. 
The  complicated  equipment  had  to  be 


Bread  loaves  ride  conveyor  In  a  supermarket 
chain  bakery. 


designed,  tested,  and  built.  The  freight 
cars  which  brought  the  flour  were  in- 
vented and  manufactured  just  for  this 
purpose.  The  tubes  that  unloaded  the 
cars  were  tailored  for  siphoning  the 
flour.  The  storage  silos  that  hold  the 
flour  were  engineered  to  be  the  right 
size  and  right  shape.  Each  computer  is 
exacdy  the  right  computer  for  the 
job  to  be  done.  The  conveyor  belts, 
pneumatic  tubes,  valves,  elevators, 
molders,  mixers,  scales,  softeners,  flat- 
teners,  churners,  ovens,  wrappers,  and 
baggers  were  all  brought  into  existence 
with  a  specific  job  in  mind.  The  vats, 
brewing  rooms,  and  proofing  rooms 
have  to  be  kept  at  the  right  tempera- 
ture and  humidity.  And  each  item 
of  equipment  has  to  be  easy  to  clean. 

But  even  before  the  equipment  was 
developed,  a  special  "formula"  for 
bread  had  to  be  considered.  Research 
laboratories  scattered  throughout  the 
country  devoted  considerable  effort  to 
perfecting  the  required  techniques. 
Years  of  intense  effort  yielded  bits 
of  data,  so  the  total  information  could 
be  used  in  this  automated  breadmak- 
ing  process. 

Even  the  type  of  wheat  used  in  the 
breadmaking  had  to  be  determined, 
for  only  certain  kinds  provide  flour 
with  the  precise  mixing  tolerance  and 
stability  suitable  for  these  new  con- 
tinuous-mix bakeries.  So,  long  before 
wheat  becomes  flour,  laboratory  tech- 
nicians submit  the  flour  to  a  series  of 
intensive  quality  evaluations  to  deter- 
mine its  breadmaking  characteristics. 
Millers  have  found  they  can  literally 
tear  a  kernel  of  wheat  apart  and  then 
reassemble  the  grain  in  a  form  more 
adaptable  to  the  particular  needs.  Air- 
classification  milling,  based  upon  this 
principle,  separates  out  the  protein 
and  glutens,  and  a  miller  can  then 
put  them  back  in  the  precise  propor- 
tions he  desires.  Here  are  three  tests 
commonly  used  in  evaluating  wheat: 

•  Wheat  protein  content.  This  test  may 
be  done  by  a  dyebinding  process. 

•  Sedimentation  value.  This  tests  the 
strength  of  a  wheat.  Strength  is  gen- 
erally related  to  the  gluten  content. 


•  A  farinograph  predicts  the  quality 
and  strength  of  gluten  flour.  Strong 
gluten  indicates  a  good  bread-baking 
characteristic. 

Results  of  these  tests  may  be  out- 
lined on  charts,  and  a  baker  can  ex- 
amine them  and  tailor  his  bread  to  bis 
exact  specifications. 

Other  ingredients  that  are  a  part  of 
the  bread  "formula"  also  had  to  be 
tested.  Wrappers  had  to  be  developed 
that  could  be  used  on  the  high-speed 
wrapping  machines.  Wrappers  keep 
the  bread  fresh  and  protect  it  during 
handling  and  in  the  household  of  the 
young  couple. 

We  have  described  some  of  the 
many  and  complex  arrangements  in- 
volved in  developing  the  new  con- 
tinuous way  to  produce  white  bread. 
But  that  is  just  one  item.  The  same 
bakery  may  handle  four  or  five  other 
kinds  of  bread,  each  with  a  unique 
method  of  processing.  Then,  of  course, 
there  are  rolls,  buns,  pies,  cakes,  and 
tarts  that  are  equally  complex  in  their 
manufacture.  But  none  of  these  are  as 
completely  automated  as  white  bread 
because  their  volumes  are  smaller. 

All  this  background  and  develop- 
mental work  called  for  considerable 
applied  research  and,  of  course,  ex- 
pense. The  aim  of  all  this  is  that  we 
have  our  needs  met  in  an  efficient  way. 
We  must  like  the  product  and  the  price 
well  enough  to  come  back  for  more, 
and  to  be  favorably  disposed  toward 
any  other  products  made  by  the  same 
company.  This  is  what  makes  the  sys- 
tem work,  why  engineers  design  the 
high-speed  machines,  why  bankers  are 
willing  to  risk  investment  funds  for  a 
costly  automated  system,  and  why  the 
bakery  owners  go  to  all  the  bother  and 
expense.  By  satisfying  their  customers, 
bakers  can  sell  more  loaves  of  bread, 
make  more  money,  and  retain  or  in- 
crease their  share  of  the  bread  market. 

For  supplying  us  with  our  daily 
bread,  bakers  receive  about  80  percent 
of  the  price  we  pay  for  our  loaf  of 
white  bread.  The  grocer  keeps  the 
other  20  percent  to  pay  his  store  ex- 
penses. Bakers  pay  out  about  half  the 

27 


money  they  receive  from  the  retailer 
for  employees'  wages,  fringe  benefits, 
and  social  security  payments.  Ingredi- 
ents take  the  next  biggest  slice — almost 
a  third  of  the  money  bakers  receive 
from  the  storekeeper.  The  rest  goes 
for  the  package,  delivery,  equipment, 
and  sundry  items.  Profits,  of  course, 
are  important  for  they  go  to  the  owner 
of  the  business.  In  recent  years  bakers' 
profits  have  averaged  about  2  percent 
of  sales. 

We  have  used  baking  as  an  example, 
but  baking  is  only  one  part  of  our 
immense  processing  industry.  Other 
examples  could  show  equally  well  the 
complexity,  size,  and  character  of  food 
processing. 

Within  the  past  two  decades,  food 
processing  has  adapted  to  different 
demands  of  the  food  market.  Previ- 
ously, processing  was  oriented  toward 
procuring  and  preserving.  Now  food 
processing  is  more  market  oriented, 
with  its  new  emphasis  on  food  prepara- 
tion, packaging,  and  convenience. 

Even  though  procuring  raw  products 
and  preserving  are  just  as  important 
functions  as  ever,  greater  emphasis  is 
being  placed  on  what  the  housewife 
wants  rather  than  on  what  the  farmer 
has  to  sell.  This  may  be  one  reason  for 
the  current  emphasis  on  ready-to-eat 
foods,  for  a  processor  tries  to  anticipate 
our  wants  and  needs  as  consumers.  He 
then  develops,  manufactures,  pack- 
ages, promotes,  and  distributes  foods 
to  meet  our  changing  demands  or 
desires.  In  taking  this  new  tack,  we 
find  that  the  food  processing  industry 
acquired  some  of  the  tasks  that  formerly 
were  thought  of  as  farm  duties.  It's 
obvious,  too,  the  processors  have  taken 
on  many  of  the  housewives'  jobs,  and 
processors  now  assume  a  multitude  of 
the  chores  formerly  in  home  kitchens. 

Many  factors  appear  to  have  brought 
about  these  modifications  in  our  food 
economy.  We  don't  always  know  which 
are  causes  and  which  are  results  of 
changes,  for  they  seem  to  be  inter- 
twined. But  the  questions  of  how  much 
processing,  what  types,  where,  by 
whom,  and  at  what  cost  are  the  essence 
of  the  "economics"  of  the  food  process- 

28 


ing  industry.  Each  bit  of  processing 
must  be  coordinated  with  the  rest,  each 
processor  must  find  the  raw  products 
he  needs,  and  each  food  must  get  to 
where  the  customer  can  buy  it. 

Not  only  have  consumer  desires  been 
changing,  and  increasingly  reflected 
back  to  food  processors,  but  techno- 
logical advances  have  also  played  an 
important  role  in  those  modifications 
that  have  taken  place.  For  example, 
newer  type  canning  facilities  are  more 
specialized  than  formerly  and  require 
larger  volumes  to  justify  a  much  greater 
investment.  The  volumes  needed  to 
keep  them  busy  may  involve  enlarging 
the  whole  food  processing  plant.  The 
size  of  plants,  where  they  are  located, 
the  kind  of  processing  done,  and  the 
type  of  business  which  is  evolving  are 
all  affected. 

Transportation  and  communication 
developments  have  encouraged  other 
changes.  They  have  given  processing 
firms  a  greater  choice  in  the  size  of 
plants  to  be  operated  and  where  plants 
may  be  located.  Trucks,  trains,  and 
planes  move  rapidly  and  continuously 
to  get  supplies  from,  and  finished 
products  to,  almost  any  section  of  the 
country. 

Early  in  this  century,  our  meat- 
packing industry  centered  in  Chicago, 
St.  Louis,  and  Omaha.  There  was  a 
reason.  The  packers  built  large-volume 
slaughter  and  packing  plants  so  the 
plants  could  specialize  and  thus  achieve 
lower  packing  costs.  Slaughter  and 
packing  specialization,  at  that  time, 
depended  on  large-volume  operations. 

Since  the  close  of  World  War  II, 
slaughtering  has  moved  to  country  lo- 
cations and  become  decentralized.  Ani- 
mals now  can  be  slaughtered  within 
hours  of  their  shipping  time.  But  while 
the  slaughtering  of  meat  animals  has 
moved  closer  to  the  farm,  range,  or 
feedlot,  other  processing  has  tended  to 
become  more  specialized  and  central- 
ized. Weiners,  bacon,  sausages,  and 
hams  now  may  be  processed  in  plants 
that  specialize  in  these  items.  Imagine, 
if  you  will,  a  whole  plant  devoted  to 
making  sausage-type  products — whole 
rooms  filled  with  automatic  wiener 


fillers.  In  this  instance,  the  raw  mate- 
rials used  are  frozen  meat,  spices,  dry 
skim  milk,  casings,  and  cartons. 

Some  meat  processing  plants  do 
nothing  but  "quick-freezing"  of  steaks, 
chops,  and  roasts.  No  one  knows  the 
future  of  frozen  meats,  for  at  present 
there  seems  to  be  some  consumer  resist- 
ance to  these.  Yet,  as  if  in  contradic- 
tion, we  buy  frozen  meats  in  prepared 
dinners,  and  even  consider  ourselves 
thrifty  when  we  purchase  fresh  meat  to 
freeze  at  home.  We  buy  frozen  turkey, 
although  we  prefer  our  broilers  fresh. 
In  future  years,  we  may  buy  frozen 
cuts  of  meat  and  specialties  like  shish- 
kabob  as  readily  as  we  now  do  frozen 
vegetables. 

Changes  at  other  levels  of  marketing 
may  affect  who  does  the  food  proc- 
essing, where  the  preservation  is  done, 
and  how.  Instead  of  sending  whole 
meat  carcasses  to  each  grocery  store, 
as  was  formerly  the  custom,  some  of 
the  retail  stores  now  cut  and  package 
steaks,  chops,  and  roasts  at  their  cen- 
tral warehouses.  This  cutting  tech- 
nique results  in  more  efficient  use  of 
labor  and  less  product  waste.  It  is  now 
technically  possible  for  the  complete 
cutting  operation  to  be  done  back  still 
another  step — at  the  slaughter-packing 
plant.  Research  will  show  whether 
cutting  at  a  packing  plant  is  economi- 
cally feasible.  All  this  indicates  that 
food  processing  is  in  a  state  of  flux. 

Meanwhile,  back  in  the  packing 
plant,  food  researchers  have  designed 
a  new  instrument  to  predetermine  how 
tender  the  meat  will  be  after  having 
been  cooked  at  home.  A  technician, 
using  this  device,  can  easily  determine 
the  best  use  of  a  beef  carcass,  and  cus- 
tomers will  know  when  they  buy  a 
steak,  roast,  or  even  stew  meat,  what 
the  maximum  tenderness  will  be  "after 
cooking." 

For  most  food  processing  industries, 
the  prevailing  trend  is  toward  more 
centralization.  The  important  factor 
in  bringing  this  about  is  what  econo- 
mists call  the  economies  of  scale.  This 
means,  simply,  that  a  bigger  plant — by 
having  a  large  volume — can  find  ways 
of  lowering  costs  per  unit. 


Today,  a  large  food  processor  has 
some  distinct  advantages  over  the 
small  one.  He  can  buy  in  larger  quan- 
tities and  may  pay  slightly  lower  raw 
material  and  supply  prices.  More  im- 
portant, he  can  afford  some  services 
that  a  small  processor  has  to  do  with- 
out. He  is  large  enough  to  have  his 
own  name  brand,  and  in  this  country 
food  processors  find  a  nationally  ad- 
vertised brand  to  be  a  market  advan- 
tage. Our  TV  networks,  magazines, 
and  even  some  U.S.  newspapers  have 
cross-country  coverage.  National  pro- 
motion of  food  in  these  media  is 
expensive  per  unit  of  sale  unless  costs 
can  be  spread  over  many  sales. 

Although  a  few  processors  have  done 
so,  a  small  food  processor  finds  it  ex- 
tremely difficult  to  support  a  nation- 
wide promotion  campaign. 

Another  spur  toward  larger  sized 
plants  and  companies  is  the  advantage 
that  results  from  team  research.  One 
member  may  work  on  texture,  another 
on  flavor,  others  on  color,  label,  pack- 
age design,  closure,  and  so  on.  A 
product  development  man  in  a  small 
research  laboratory  cannot  specialize 
enough  to  achieve  great  success  in  any 
one  field,  and  this  limits  his  ability  to 
develop  new  products. 

The  same  reasoning  applies  to  mar- 
ket testing.  This  is  an  expensive  pro- 
cedure, and  small  firms  do  it  with 
difficulty.  Generally,  they  need  to  hire 
a  specialized  company  to  do  this  for 
them.  Large  food  processors,  particu- 
larly those  with  a  continuing  flow  of 
new  products,  have  their  own  market 
testing  staff  and  do  market  testing 
with  comparative  ease. 

Adaptation  of  old  and  new  tech- 
nologies has  spurred  food  processing 
firms  to  enlarge  and  centralize  their 
operations.  Fully  automated  plants  can 
produce  large  quantities  of  food  at 
lower  cost  in  one  place  than  when 
scattered  around  the  country.  Break- 
fast cereals  are  economically  produced 
in  large  automated  plants  and  the 
finished  products  sent  to  all  parts  of 
the  Nation. 

Other  changes  have  been  taking 
place  in  food  processing,  too.  Some 

29 


30 


On  opposite  page,  oranges  arrive  by  truck  at  Florida  plant  that  makes  frozen  orange  juice.  Above, 
oranges  in  washer  at  a  processing  plant. 


firms  have  expanded  "vertically"  by 
merging  with  their  suppliers  or  buying 
them  out.  If  a  processor  can't  get  his 
needed  supplies  or  services  at  a  reason- 
able price  or  one  that  meets  his  par- 
ticular requirements,  he  then  is  under 
pressure  to  produce  them  for  himself. 
Some  fruit  canners,  to  lower  costs  or 
to  get  the  kind  of  cans  they  want,  have 
begun  manufacturing  cans.  Or  a  food 
processor  may  buy  most  of  his  bottles 
from  a  container  supplier  and  still 
operate  a  botde  manufacturing  plant 
as  a  safeguard  against  adverse  labor 
problems  or,  perhaps,  as  a  check  on 
botde  prices. 

Other  processors  have  expanded 
"horizontally"  by  merging  with  other 
companies  engaged  in  the  same  kind 
of  business  or  making  the  same  prod- 
uct. Some  nationwide  bakery  organi- 
zations have  used  this  expansion  route 
by  merging  with  local  and  regional 
companies.  A  current  consideration 
is  that  the  Federal  regulatory  agencies 
frown  on  mergers  which  lessen  compe- 
tition within  an  industry. 


A  variation  of  horizontal  expansion 
is  diversification  through  which  a  food 
processor  acquires  companies  making 
different  but  related  food  products. 
Some  old-line  food  processors  have 
moved  into  the  more  rapidly  growing 
sectors  of  the  food  processing  industry 
by  buying  firms  which  make  frozen 
and  prepared  foods,  convenience  items, 
snacks,  and  packaged  products. 

In  "conglomerate"  mergers,  a  firm 
combines  with  other  companies  having 
an  entirely  different  kind  of  product. 
Food  processors  are  in  the  toy  business. 
Electronic,  petroleum,  and  machinery 
companies  have  gone  into  food  manu- 
facturing. Tobacco  firms  have  become 
food  processors.  Others  have  started 
making  soaps,  fertilizer,  and  leather 
goods.  This  type  of  expansion  has  been 
stimulated  pardy  by  the  need  for  large 
investments  in  food  processing  plant 
facilities  and  supplies.  Quite  often  the 
nonfood  companies  have  the  invest- 
ment, research  facilities,  and  promo- 
tional know-how  to  make  a  success  of 
food  processing. 

31 


In  food  processing,  as  in  all  other 
industries  today,  business  management 
has  become  more  complex,  technical, 
and  scientific.  In  the  past,  "manage- 
ment" was  quite  frequently  the  owner. 
And  generally,  the  owner  had  a  few 
"advisors"  to  help  him  make  decisions. 
Answers,  based  on  common  sense  and 
practical  experience,  were  fairly  sim- 
ple. A  new  business  venture  of  today 
requires  enterprise,  skill,  and  expertise 
to  launch  and  manage  it. 

In  a  modern  food  processing  estab- 
lishment, a  vast  array  of  specialists 
and  experts  contributes  to  operation 
and  management  of  the  firm.  Engi- 
neers, chemists,  accountants,  food 
technologists,  purchasing  agents,  law- 
yers, advertising  men,  data  processors 
combine  their  efforts  toward  more 
research.  Working  together,  they  look 
forward  to  successful  new  products  and 
more  sales. 

As  firms  become  larger,  more  com- 
plex, and  geared  to  a  nationwide 
market,  innovations  are  the  prime 
movers.  Finding  new  products,  new 
applications  for  existing  foods,  and 
using  both  to  increase  the  quantity  and 
variety  produced — these  have  become 
ever-present  goals. 

Research,  especially  that  directed 
toward  developing  new  products  or 
new  processes,  goes  on  continuously 
and  takes  many  forms.  Some  research 
is  just  to  improve  a  package;  some  to 
develop  a  new  combination  of  foods. 
Still  other  research  seeks  to  find  some- 
thing completely  new  to  fill  a  specific 
need  or  develop  a  new  process  and 
find  a  way  to  use  it. 

Freezing  of  food,  quite  likely  the 
greatest  change  in  food  processing 
since  World  War  II,  seemingly  could 
have  developed  earlier,  but  several 
other  changes  had  to  occur  at  the 
same  time.  The  commercial  freezing 
of  food,  developed  in  the  1920's,  went 
through  various  stages  before  costs 
were  low  enough  and  products  reliable 
enough  for  mass  production  and  dis- 
tribution. Since  then,  newer  freezing 
techniques  and  different  types  of 
refrigeration  machinery  have  come  on 
the  food  scene.  Entirely  new  kinds  of 

32 


freezing  media  have  been  tested  and 
put  in  general  use.  The  IQF  (individ- 
ually quick  frozen)  method  of  freezing 
was  one  of  these,  and  with  some 
foods — like  peas,  french  fried  potatoes, 
and  carrots — IQF  freezing  adds  con- 
venience for  the  housewife. 

Other  developments  also  had  to 
occur  at  the  same  time.  There  was  a 
need  for  new  types  of  raw  products 
suitable  for  freezing.  Packaging  ma- 
terials had  to  be  especially  designed 
to  protect  and  to  preserve  product 
quality.  Ways  to  transport  and  store 
the  food  had  to  be  adapted  to  the  new 
processing  situation.  All  these  have 
affected  the  housewife,  her  home 
storage,  her  menus,  her  family's  diets, 
and  her  general  satisfaction  with 
today's  offerings.  A  simple  change  in 
the  process  of  freezing  snap  beans  has 
had  far-reaching  effects  that  stretch 
across  the  country  to  almost  every 
town,  every  grocery  store,  and  most 
homes  in  the  Nation. 

New  ingredients,  or  old  ones  applied 
in  new  ways,  have  become  increasingly 
important  in  today's  food  processing 
system.  An  example  is  the  use  of  old- 
fashioned  whey  in  modern  prepared 
foods.  Spray-drying  removes  most  of 
liquid  whey's  moisture  in  seconds.  A 
second  drying  process  gives  it  solu- 
bility, storage,  and  handling  proper- 
ties that  allow  it  to  become  a  valuable 
ingredient  in  a  variety  of  foods. 

Spray-dried  whey  improves  color, 
bloom,  and  texture  of  bakery  products 
and  gives  added  flavor  to  bread 
mixes.  "Whey- breaded"  shrimp  taste 
"shrimpier."  Frozen  pot  pies  and 
fruit  pies  do  less  "weeping"  and  the 
whey  helps  to  eliminate  the  watery 
effect  often  found  on  the  bottom  of 
pies.  Sherbets  and  ice  creams  have  a 
smoother  appearance.  Cheese  sauces 
do  less  separating,  and  dried  whey 
helps  to  maintain  shelf  life  of  many 
foods.  One  evidence  of  acceptance  is 
that  the  use  of  this  byproduct  has 
increased  2%  times  in  the  past  decade. 
Another  and  still  different  use  of  a 
familiar  product  is  that  of  butter 
inserted  in  self-basting  turkeys.  One 
machine  injects  butter  deep  into  the 


breast  and  thighs  of  freshly  slaughtered 
turkeys.  Other  machines  quickly  freeze 
the  birds  and  pack  them  in  special- 
type  plastic  bags.  From  there  they  are 
stored  in  a  freezer.  Weeks  later,  when 
needed,  the  frozen  turkeys  arrive  in 
our  grocery  stores.  The  advantage  of 
all  this  extra  process  is  that,  while 
it's  roasting,  the  turkey  "bastes"  itself 
by  oozing  the  butter  from  deep  inside 
to  the  outer  surface. 

Inspection  of  many  foods  is  required 
by  State  or  Federal  law.  Inspection  of 
others  is  at  a  food  processor's  option, 
and  the  voluntary  inspection  programs 
may  operate  under  governmental  or 
industry  standards. 

While  most  food  inspection  work  has 
been  done  in  the  past  by  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Health,  Education, 
and  Welfare  and  the  U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture,  many  States  will  be 
doing  more  of  this  work  in  the  future. 
Two  recent  laws,  for  example,  provide 
a  backdrop  for  more  State  activity  in 
the  fields  of  meat  and  poultry  inspec- 
tion. The  Wholesome  Meat  Act  of 
1967  and  the  Wholesome  Poultry 
Products  Act  of  1968  provide  for  fully 
cooperative  Federal-State  inspection 
programs. 

Regulations  governing  food  inspec- 
tion programs  vary  to  some  extent 
from  one  product,  or  type  of  product, 
to  another.  Some  regulations  require 
inspection  of  materials  coming  into 
processing  plants.  Other  rules  deal 
only  with  the  sanitation  of  processing 
plants.  Still  other  inspections  deal  with 
the  finished  product  to  ascertain  that 
minimum  standards  have  been  met. 
Food  labels,  too,  come  under  scrutiny. 
Ham  processed  under  Federal  meat 
inspection,  for  example,  must  be 
labeled  as  "Ham,  water  added,"  if  it 
contains  up  to  10  percent  added  mois- 
ture, and  as  "Imitation  Ham"  if  the 
added  water  goes  above  this  amount. 
Since  Federal  meat  inspection  stand- 
ards limit  the  amount  of  moisture  in 
cooked  sausages,  a  laboratory  test  for 
this  factor  has  become  standard  pro- 
cedure. The  amount  of  cereal  or  any 
other  "extenders"  in  sausages  is  also 
analyzed,  as  is  the  protein  content. 


So  far,  we  have  looked  at  the  present 
status  of  food  processing.  How  about 
the  future? 

A  much  higher  percentage  of  our 
meat,  poultry,  dairy,  and  fisheries 
products  will  be  processed.  Fresh  red 
meats,  as  we  know  them,  may  become 
the  high-priced,  low-volume  food  items 
of  the  future.  Most  poultry  meat  of 
tomorrow  will  be  frozen  or  processed 
by  other  methods.  Fresh  broilers  may 
almost  disappear. 

The  next  decade  will  open  increased 
possibilities  for  frozen  snacks.  Host- 
esses of  tomorrow's  superjets,  traveling 
at  much  faster  speeds  than  now,  will 
not  have  time  to  provide  a  hot  meal 
for  their  250  to  400  passengers.  A 
snack  may  have  to  do  for  some  flights. 
These  new  planes  with  their  multiple 
galleys  and  large  food  holding  and 
thawing  equipment  will  be  able  to 
handle  a  variety  of  frozen  dishes. 
Snacks  may  include  open-faced  sand- 
wiches, cold  chicken,  turkey,  roast 
beef,  and  hors  d'oeuvres — all  proc- 
essed. For  desserts,  there  may  be 
pudding,  fruit  salads  and  mixed  fruit, 
rolls,  pies,  tarts,  and  puff  pastry. 
Coffee  may  be  the  only  hot  item. 

Another  change  to  watch  is  that 
food  processors  will  turn  their  atten- 
tion more  and  more  toward  foods  used 
in  the  away-from-home  eating  places. 
Some  of  these  products  will  find  their 
way  into  our  supermarkets  as  well. 
The  children  of  the  young  couple  that 
we  left  at  the  checkout  counter  will  be 
buying  many  foods  in  new  forms,  pre- 
pared by  new  processes,  and  sold  in 
new  kinds  of  packages. 

Food  Packaging 

A  grocery  store  presents  a  virtual 
kaleidoscope  of  color  and  design,  with 
each  packaged  food  item  upon  the 
shelves  contributing  to  the  overall 
mosaic.  Every  food  package  we  see 
comes  as  the  result  of  careful  research 
to  find  out  what  is  likely  to  appeal  to 
us  plus  what  will  best  protect  the 
product  and  retain  quality. 

Back  in  the  days  of  the  local  gro- 
cery, crackers,  cranberries,  and  pickles 

33 


were  displayed  in  barrels.  Aisles  were 
lined  with  big  bags  of  flour,  potatoes, 
sugar,  dry  beans,  oatmeal,  and  pea- 
nuts. Salted  fish  and  oranges  came  in 
wooden  boxes.  Some  foods  were 
canned  and  pickled,  but  frozen  foods 
were  unknown.  Consumer  packages,  as 
we  know  them,  were  unusual  and  clerks 
packaged  most  items  in  bags  at  the 
time  of  sale.  These  brown  bags  were 
meant  just  to  carry  the  food  and  to 
hold  up  until  the  shopper  got  home. 
Food  handling  problems  within  the 
store  were  limited  to  such  things  as 
keeping  the  crackers  dry1  and  the  flies 
away  from  the  molasses.  Packaging 
was  a  problem  then,  as  it  is  now;  but 
because  of  the  new  emphasis  on  con- 
venience, our  packaging  ideas  today 
take  different  forms. 

What  is  there  about  our  present 
food  marketing  system  that  encourages 
such  wide  usage  of  packages?  First, 
our  food  itself  has  changed.  Advances 
in  technology  have  made  many  new 
kinds  of  processed  food  and  food  com- 
binations possible.  Convenience  foods 
need  the  right  type  of  package  to  be 
truly  convenient.  Many  processing 
changes  call  for  package  changes,  and 
finding  the  right  package  for  each  food 
is  an  essential  part  of  our  modern 
food  processing  and  marketing  system. 
When  a  new  food  is  put  on  the  market, 
a  "right"  package  can  help  sell  the 
product;  a  poor  package  can  hinder 
sales  and  may  even  prevent  a  new  food 
from  getting  nationwide  acceptance. 
Another  basic  reason  for  having  a 
package  is  to  assemble  items.  A  jar 
of  pickled  onions  becomes  a  unit  of 
trade.  A  pound  box  of  peanut  brittle, 
a  quart  of  milk,  a  1 -ounce  bottle  of 
dried  chives,  and  a  10-ounce  box  of 
biscuit  mix  are  other  examples.  Putting 
similar  things  together,  or  combining 
ingredients  in  handy  sizes,  allows  for 
easier  purchases  and  faster  handling. 
A  special  function  of  some  packages 
is  to  protect  the  contents  from  mechan- 
ical damage.  Most  U.S.  foods  travel 
hundreds  or  even  thousands  of  miles 
before  coming  to  our  supermarkets. 
They  are  packaged  to  keep  them  safe 
for  the  long  trips.  An  egg  carton  keeps 

34 


fragile  shells  from  cracking.  Special 
wrappings,  fillers,  and  layers  keep 
delicate  fruits  from  bruising  each 
other.  Other  packages  provide  stack- 
ing strength  in  handling,  transit,  and 
storage. 

If  a  food  has  special  consumer-use 
characteristics,  a  processor  may  have 
to  cope  with  intricate  packaging  prob- 
lems. Boilable-pouch  foods  need  a 
pliable  package  which  can  be  both 
frozen  and  boiled.  This  film  has  to 
keep  the  product  dry  inside  and  can- 
not react  with  the  food.  In  common 
use  for  frozen  vegetables  for  some  time, 
this  package  now  is  used  for  cured 
meats  and  seafoods  as  well. 

The  foods  sold  in  pressurized  cans, 
like  whipped  cream,  cake  icings,  and 
cheese  spreads,  were  not  ready  to  be 
marketed  until  market  researchers  de- 
vised a  special  nozzle  for  the  can.  Also, 
a  propellant  gas  had  to  be  discovered 
that  would  not  unite  with  the  food  and 
would  be  harmless  if  eaten.  These 
intricate  problems  of  packaging  were 
solved,  and  the  concept  has  become  a 
reality  on  the  market. 

A  package  needs  to  be  convenient. 
The  shopper  may  buy  a  food  once,  but 
no  matter  how  well  she  likes  the  con- 
tents, she  may  not  buy  it  again  unless 
the  package  is  easy  to  open  up,  easily 
reclosed,  easy  to  store,  and  convenient 
to  handle.  There  are  many  jokes  about 
the  plastic  bag  you  tear  open  with 
your  teeth,  the  key  opener  package 
which  swallows  the  key,  and  the  box 
that  explodes  or  spills  the  contents. 

But  most  of  all,  a  food  package  must 
be  a  "silent  salesman."  A  successful 
package  must  catch  the  shopper's  eye, 
identify  what  the  product  is,  and  give 
her  all  the  basic  information  she  needs 
about  the  food  inside.  Some  label  in- 
formation, like  weight  and  contents,  is 
required  by  law. 

A  food  processor  selects  the  most 
economical  packaging  materials  and 
container  that  will  meet  his  customer's 
product  needs.  He  wants  packages  that 
do  not  adversely  affect  his  labor  costs 
or  packaging  equipment  investment. 
When  he  has  developed  a  package  that 
will  do  the  best  job  of  protecting  his 


product,  then  he  must  determine  if  it 
is  economical  to  purchase,  store,  fill, 
stock,  handle,  and  ship.  He  also  wants 
a  package  design  which  requires  an 
appropriate  amount  of  shelf  space; 
will  attract  people  to  buy  it;  prevent 
pilfering;  and  provide  convenience  to 
the  consumer  when  used.  A  processor 
who  has  developed  a  package  which 
meets  all  these  requirements,  and  has 
also  developed  something  good  inside, 
may  have  a  successful  product. 

Aluminum  makes  a  unique  food 
package.  Resistant  to  greases  and  oils, 
it  is  odorless,  tasteless,  nontoxic,  and 
does  not  shrink,  swell,  or  soften.  Nor 
does  aluminum  unite  with  the  food  or 
change  the  color.  It  is  a  good  conductor 
of  heat,  but  does  not  burn  and  won't 
crack  in  the  freezer. 

Aluminum  is  adaptable  for  the 
formed  dishes  used  for  frozen  plate  din- 
ners since  it  can  be  pressed  to  many 
shapes.  Aluminum  lids  for  these  same 
dinner  containers  seal  tighdy,  but  peel 
away  easily.  Aluminum  pouches  and 
bags  are  suitable  for  use  with  instant 
mashed  potatoes  since,  unlike  most 
films,  they  effectively  keep  out  mois- 
ture, odors,  and  vapors.  Aluminum 
cans,  now  coming  on  the  market  in 
larger  volumes,  are  a  competitor  for 
the  traditional  tinned  can.  Manufac- 
turers of  tin  cans  counter  by  develop- 
ing new  lightweight  steel  cans. 

The  tin  can  we  are  all  familiar  with 
has  been  going  through  other  evolu- 
tionary changes.  Presendy,  food  and 
beverages  utilize  85  percent  of  the  tin- 
plated  steel  cans  turned  out  by  U.S. 
suppliers.  To  maintain  their  share  of 
the  market,  the  can  industry  concen- 
trates on  research  to  lower  costs  while 
at  the  same  time  changing  the  can  to 
improve  performance  and  attractive- 
ness. One  way  to  reduce  costs  is  to 
make  cans  from  thinner  sheets,  or  per- 
haps by  using  a  tin-free  steel  can. 
Aluminum  may  also  be  deposited  on 
the  steel  surface  of  the  can.  Chrome- 
plated  steel  is  another  possibility.  Even 
the  typical  cylindrical  shape  may  be 
altered  in  the  years  ahead.  One  manu- 
facturer is  experimenting  with  new 
contoured  cans  whose  strong  welded 


side  seams  will  make  many  new  styles 
possible. 

Glass  containers,  long  standbys  in 
food  processing,  have  many  innova- 
tions to  make  them  even  more  useful 
and  durable  in  coming  years.  Here  is 
an  example:  Surface  scratches  have 
been  one  cause  of  glass  breakage.  A 
recendy  developed  surface  treatment 
now  makes  glass  containers  virtually 
scratch  resistant.  Other  special  im- 
provements in  glass  designs  permit  sub- 
stantial weight  reduction.  Still  another 
innovation:  Glass  decoration  can  be 
done  at  high  speeds  and  low  cost  so, 
after  use,  these  containers  might  serve 
other  purposes. 

Films  like  polyethylene  or  poly- 
propylene and  many  others  make 
excellent  packing  materials.  The  boil- 
able  bag  is  one  adaptation.  A  tempera- 
ture-resistant, disposable,  film  package 
for  bread  dough  serves  a  secondary 
purpose  as  the  baking  pan.  Other 
newer  adaptations  are  the  twist-tie 
bags  for  bakery  foods  and  cured  and 
processed  meats. 

Edible  pouches  now  are  technically 
feasible  for  instant  coffee,  tea,  and 
soup  mixes.  In  the  last  example,  the 
pouch  could  serve  as  a  thickening 
agent  for  the  soup ! 

Individual  portions  of  many  foods — 
from  potato  chips  to  puddings — are 
ideal  for  the  lunchbox  or  the  person 
who  lives  alone.  "Stack  pack"  crackers 
and  cookies  keep  a  product  fresh  after 
opening.  "Pilfer-proof"  closures  help 
grocers  maintain  fresh  packages  and 
minimize  losses.  Vacuum-sealed  food 
jars  are  one  example — a  gentie  twist  of 
the  lid  tells  the  shopper  whether  the 
vacuum  is  still  there  or  if  the  jar  has 
been  opened.  Reusable  containers — 
like  those  tubs  used  for  margarine, 
salad,  and  ice  cream — make  excellent 
refrigerator  storage  dishes.  Molded 
handles — like  those  now  used  on  gal- 
lon milk  jugs — make  these  containers 
easier  to  handle  and  store. 

The  variety  of  new  food  containers 
streams  on  endlessly.  In  future  years, 
we  anticipate  that  these  will  provide 
even  more  convenience,  better  appear- 
ance, easier  handling,  and  lower  costs. 

35 


Harry  H.  Harp 
William  S.  Hoofnagle 


Thousands 
of  New  Foods 
Give  You  a 
Wide  Choice 


When  Abraham  Lincoln  clerked  in  a 
country  store,  his  customers  had 
around  900  food  items  to  choose  from. 
Until  as  recently  as  1940,  a  family 
shopper  had  only  about  a  thousand 
food  items  from  which  to  make  selec- 
tions. Contrast  this  with  the  average 
supermarket  today  with  8,000  or  more 
items — many  of  which  were  not  avail- 
able 10  years  ago. 

So  many  new  forms  of  food  prod- 
ucts have  been  produced  during  the 
past  few  years  that  supermarkets  have 
to  limit  the  number  they  can  carry. 
If  a  grocer  tried  to  stock  all  that  have 
been  developed,  his  store  would  prob- 
ably take  up  a  whole  shopping  center. 
Though  supermarkets  must  limit  to 
some  extent  the  number  of  items  they 
stock,  we  still  have  an  amazing  array 
of  choices.  It's  often  fun  just  to  wander 
about  and  look  for  new  items  which 
seem  to  appear  almost  daily. 

Today  we  can  find  cases  and  cases 
of  frozen  foods,  rows  upon  rows  of 
bakery  mixes  and  icings,  sauces  and 
sauce  mixes,  beverages  and  beverage 
mixes.  There  is  virtually  an  endless 
number  of  easy-to-cook  foods  which 
were  not  in  our  grocery  stores  just 

36 


5  years  ago.  And,  though  it  seems  that 
every  possible  food,  for  every  possible 
use,  has  been  developed,  many  more 
are  "in  the  works." 

In  a  few  years,  our  weekly  market 
order  may  be  made  up  almost  entirely 
of  the  so-called  "convenience"  foods 
with  their  built-in  maid  or  chef  serv- 
ices. Many  of  these  will  be  for  dishes 
we  have  prepared  at  home,  yet  they 
may  contain  ingredients  we  won't  rec- 
ognize. Even  now,  names  appear  in 
lists  of  ingredients  on  packages  that 
seem  strange  to  many  of  us.  New  items 
today  are  not  only  new  or  different 
combinations  of  foods  but  some  are 
actually  "synthesized"  to  represent  the 
"natural"  foods.  Many  contain  emul- 
sifiers,  stabilizers,  and  preservatives  of 
various  kinds  to  provide  desired  tex- 
tures and  flavors,  and  to  insure  better 
keeping  qualities. 

Some  of  our  grandmothers  who 
had  cleaned,  washed,  diced,  chopped, 
stewed,  fried,  and  baked  for  hours  at 
a  time  are  bewildered  by  how  readily 
the  younger  generation  accepts  each 
new  food — frozen  plate  dinners,  pizzas, 
pot  pies,  chow  mein,  shrimp  Creole, 
cake  mixes.  But,  in  her  busy  life,  our 
young  homemaker  is  happy  to  heat 
and  serve  important  parts  of  her  meals. 
If  she  wants  to,  she  can  still  express  her 
own  individuality  by  adding  another 
seasoning  or  flavoring,  using  a  sauce,  or 
combining  two  items  to  make  a  third. 

All  of  these  new  products  make  us 
wonder  why  so  much  has  happened 
in  so  short  a  time,  particularly  when 
for  decades  Americans  followed  almost 
the  same  pattern  of  shopping  for  food 
and  in  preparing  meals.  As  with  most 
dynamic  changes,  these  have  resulted 
from  a  combination  of  factors.  But, 
trying  to  identify  what  actually  started 
it  all  is  difficult,  for  each  change  seems 
to  have  depended  on  another  occurring 
at  about  the  same  time — or  nearly  so. 

Perhaps  all  these  changes  have  been 


Harry  H.  Harp  is  an  Agricultural  Economist 
in  the  Marketing  Economics  Division,  Economic 
Research  Service. 

William  S.  Hoofnagle  is  Deputy  Director  of 
the  Marketing  Economics  Division. 


speeded  up  because  more  of  us  live  in 
cities,  more  of  us  have  more  money  to 
spend  as  we  like,  more  women  work 
away  from  home,  and  our  younger 
homemakers  appear  to  have  a  multi- 
tude of  outside  interests.  Underlying 
all  this  is  the  value  being  placed  on 
the  use  of  time — and  enough  money 
to  allow  considerable  latitude  as  to 
how  we  spend  it. 

Many  of  us,  and  this  includes  a  fair 
share  of  today's  homemakers,  travel 
considerable  distances  to  our  work. 
We  leave  home  early,  and  arrive  home 
late.  This  brings  in  more  money,  but 
it  uses  up  more  of  our  time.  Even 
young  mothers  who  stay  at  home  may 
have  to  take  the  children  to  school, 
go  to  the  bank,  to  the  cleaners,  and 
so  on.  All  these  factors  have  helped  to 
put  a  premium  on  "time." 

To  meet  demands  for  time-saving 
foods,  new  equipment  had  to  be  de- 
signed along  with  new  methods  for 
processing,  new  preservatives,  new 
packages,  and  even  new  methods  of 
getting  these  foods  to  the  grocery. 
Then,  too,  family  shoppers  had  to  be 
alerted  that  such  foods  were  available. 
All  this  has  contributed  to  the  develop- 
ment of  mass  markets.  In  terms  we 
often  hear,  this  has  called  for  mass 
production,  mass  distribution,  and 
mass  consumption. 

The  effect  of  the  increasing  demand 
for  new  foods  has  been  felt  way  back 
to  the  farm.  There  have  been  new 
varieties  of  products  developed  which 
can  be  mechanically  harvested  and 
ones  which  can  be  shipped  long  dis- 
tances—often clear  across  the  country. 
New  varieties  of  tomatoes  for  process- 
ing have'  been  developed  which  can  be 
harvested  by  machine.  These  tomatoes 
are  uniform  in  size,  they  all  ripen  at 
virtually  the  same  time,  and  they  have 
tougher  skins  so  that  they  will  stand 
machine  handling. 

Because  of  consumer  demand  for 
tender,  juicy,  flavorful  beef,  farmers 
have  selected  breeds  of  cattle  which 
give  these  qualities.  The  animals  are 
fed  special  rations  and  marketed  at 
younger  ages  and  lighter  weights  than 
formerly.    Farmers    are    also   raising 


breeds  of  hogs  with  less  fat.  Then, 
too,  whole  farms  are  devoted  to 
producing  broilers  that  come  to  market 
when  they  are  young,  tender,  fresh 
appearing,  all  cleaned  and  ready  to 
cook.  With  our  larger,  more  mecha- 
nized farms,  one  farmer  now  feeds 
about  twice  as  many  people  as  he  did 
10  years  ago. 

Though  many  changes  have  taken 
place  on  our  farms,  probably  the 
greatest  changes  have  occurred  in  food 
processing,  packaging,  and  distribu- 
tion. We've  made  great  strides  in 
controlling  food  texture,  taste,  tender- 
ness, and  storage  life.  Sometimes  years 
of  experimentation  are  necessary  to 
solve  the  technical  problems  related  to 
development  of  a  new  product  form — 
to  perfect  recipes  which  will  have  a 
general  appeal.  Many  products  now 
coming  to  market  are  the  result  of 
research  initiated  in  the  late  forties  or 
early  fifties,  like  boil-in-the-bag  items 
and  dehydrated  salad  mixes.  Today, 
lots  more  food  products  are  in  the 
experimental  stage. 

Many  new  methods  are  being  used 
in  processing  foods.  Even  the  older 
techniques  have  changed  somewhat. 
Fresh  foods  are  still  kept  in  cold  stor- 
age, but  now  even  temperature  and 
moisture  are  controlled — and  even  the 
oxygen  or  carbon  dioxide  of  the  air. 
This  keeps  the  foods  from  spoiling  or 
ripening  too  fast. 

Canning,  as  in  previous  years,  is 
important  for  preserving  fruits,  vege- 
tables, and  meats.  But,  added  to  these, 
we  now  have  a  much  wider  assort- 
ment of  ready-to-serve  forms  ranging 
from  soups  to  desserts — from  soups  of 
the  gourmet  type  to  the  cornstarch 
puddings  that  mother  used  to  make.  A 
new  adaptation  of  this  process  is 
called  aseptic  canning  where  the  con- 
tainer and  the  contents  are  sterilized 
independently  of  each  other.  Steri- 
lized milk  aseptically  canned  will  keep 
for  several  months  without  a  signifi- 
cant flavor  loss.  Milk  processed  this 
way  is  now  being  shipped  to  the  Far 
and  Middle  East. 

One  of  the  most  successful  new  kinds 
of  dairy  products  on  grocery  shelves 

37 


are  the  aseptically  canned  puddings. 
These  precooked  puddings  come  in 
various  flavors.  Some  can  even  be 
used  as  ice  cream  topping. 

Frozen  foods  are  becoming  com- 
monplace. Our  young  shoppers  have 
been  able  to  buy  them  most  of  their 
lives.  Quick  freezing  has  done  much 
to  lengthen  the  season  of  foods,  to 
provide  us  with  fresh-tasting  foods  in 
numerous  convenient  forms  the  year 
around.  Recendy,  however,  even  this 
process  is  providing  new  foods  and 
taking  on  new  forms.  New  combina- 
tions of  foods  are  in  the  supermarket 
cases — vegetables  in  cream  sauce,  fro- 
zen plate  dinners,  entrees  for  one  per- 
son and  even  for  families  of  five, 
shrimp  and  lobster  newburg,  frozen 
egg  noodles,  and  a  wide  variety  of 
canapes.  Almost  every  food  prepared 
at  home  can  be  purchased  frozen. 

New  cryogenic  freezing  techniques 
are  being  experimented  with  that  may 
provide  us  with  frozen  lettuce  and  salad 
mixes.  This  method  uses  temperatures 
below  minus  100°  F.  Mushrooms,  sea- 
foods, onion  rings,  and  bakery  prod- 
ucts are  being  frozen  in  this  manner 
along  with  such  hard-to-freeze  foods 
as  tomato  slices,  melons,  and  bananas. 

Dehydrated  foods  now  are  respected 
members  of  the  convenience  food 
line — instant  potatoes,  nonfat  dry  milk 
powders,  fruit  juice  powders — that  are 
made  ready  for  serving  by  just  adding 
boiling  or  cold  water.  Current  research 
promises  dry  whole  milk  in  the  future. 

Freeze-drying — which  combines  both 
freezing  and  drying — is  becoming  in- 
creasingly important  as  a  method  of 
food  preservation.  Foods  processed  by 
this  method  are  used  as  ingredients  in 
other  products,  like  chicken  in  dry 
soup  mixes  and  fruit  in  dry  cereals. 
Campers  can  purchase  a  variety  of 
dehydrated  meats,  dairy  foods,  eggs, 
vegetables,  fruits,  and  desserts  that 
take  up  little  space  and  can  be  recon- 
stituted rapidly.  Some  day  we  may 
have  such  exotic  items  as  freeze-dried 
catsup,  barbecue  sauce,  gravy,  pickle 
relish,  chives,  and  sirup — easy  to  keep 
without  refrigeration  and  quick  to 
reconstitute. 

38 


Some  processes,  which  were  devel- 
oped for  specific  products,  have  now 
been  extended  to  others.  The  "puff" 
process,  first  developed  for  cereals,  and 
which  popularized  the  expression  "shot 
from  guns,"  was  once  actually  made 
by  equipment  that  looked  much  like 
guns.  Now  a  similar  procedure  is  being 
used  for  carrot  pieces  and  is  being 
tried  out  on  apple  slices,  blueberries, 
and  beets. 

But  special  processing  techniques  are 
only  one  aspect  of  the  innovations  that 
have  brought  us  so  many  new  prod- 
ucts. Equally  as  important  and  prob- 
ably newer  is  the  widespread  use  of 
"additives"  and  the  development  of 
the  "synthetic"  foods. 

Today,  when  we  read  the  list  of 
ingredients  in  a  product,  we  meet 
names  that  may  have  little  meaning 
to  us.  For  example,  monosodium  glu- 
tamate,  lecithin,  mono-  and  diglyc- 
erides,  ascorbic  acid,  and  sodium 
benzoate.  These  are  additives,  some 
from  natural  sources,  and  some  manu- 
factured. They  have  a  big  variety  of 
uses — to  improve  nutritive  value,  like 
the  addition  of  vitamins  A  and  D  to 
margarine;  for  enhancing  flavor  and 
color;  to  keep  a  product  from  spoiling; 
or  as  emulsifiers.  One  or  more  of  these 
additives  are  found  in  a  wide  range  of 
foods — from  meats,  flour,  cake  mixes, 
and  bread  to  cheese,  margarine,  salad 
dressings,  ice  cream,  and  beer.  They 
are  safe  when  their  use  is  approved  by 
the  Food  and  Drug  Administration. 

We  have  antioxidants  which  help 
keep  cooking  oils  and  shortening  from 
becoming  rancid;  mold  inhibitors  in 
bread,  such  as  sodium  and  calcium 
propionate. 

Emulsifiers,  stabilizers,  and  thick- 
eners are  used  in  bakery  products, 
cake  mixes,  ice  cream  and  other  frozen 
desserts.  They  affect  the  volume,  and 
help  to  give  a  product  the  right  con- 
sistency— smooth  and  uniform  tex- 
ture— and  to  keep  it  that  way.  Leci- 
thin, mono-  and  diglycerides,  and 
vegetable  gums  are  names  of  com- 
monly used  emulsifiers.  Gelatins  are 
used  for  thickening  and  as  a  stabilizing 
agent.  Starches  are  used  in  whipped 


Dehydrated  foods  are  versatile.  Left,  camper 
cooks  with  dehydrated  food  in  a  national  forest. 
Above,  precooked  dehydrated  sweetpotato 
flakes,  developed  by  USDA.  Below,  orange 
juice  disc  made  by  drying  concentrated  citrus 
juice  in  a  new  USDA  process. 


products,  chilled  desserts,  cream  pie 
fillings,  and  soup  mixes. 

Saccharin  and  calcium- and  sodium- 
cyclamates  are  used  as  nonnutritive 
sweeteners  in  a  wide  variety  of  prod- 
ucts for  diet-conscious  consumers. 

We  could  go  on  and  on.  But  these 
illustrate  just  a  few  of  the  unfamiliar 
names  on  packages.  And  some  of  our 
newest  foods  use  several  of  them. 

Probably  the  most  recent  items  to 
come  to  the  forefront  are  imitation 
foods.  These  resemble  well-known  nat- 
ural foods  in  flavor  and  appearance 
but  are  manmade  by  combining  con- 
stituents from  different  products.  Most 
"imitation"  foods  are  made  using 
agricultural  products.  Examples  in- 
clude meatless  meats,  filled  milk,  and 
imitation  or  nondairy  milk. 

Meatless  meats,  like  imitation  bacon 
bits,  are  made  from  soybeans.  They  are 
tasty  and  have  a  good  aroma.  In 
contrast  to  meat,  this  simulated  product 
can  be  stored  a  long  time  without  re- 
frigeration. Some  of  these  products, 
which  have  been  sold  through  health 
stores,  are  now  finding  their  way  into 
grocery  stores. 

"Filled"  milk  contains  skim  milk 
and  a  vegetable  fat  instead  of  butter- 
fat.  It  is  being  produced  and  sold  in 
some  States.  At  present,  however,  it 
can't  be  shipped  across  a  State  border. 

"Imitation"  ice  cream  consists  of 
vegetable  fat  and  nonfat  milk  solids. 
Mellorine  is  probably  the  most  widely 
used  term  for  this  product. 

Among  the  most  recent  imitation 
foods  are  the  substitute  fresh  fluid 
milk  products.  "Imitation"  milk  is 
made  by  combining  vegetable  fats, 
vegetable  protein,  corn  sirup  solids, 
sodium  casemate,  stabilizers,  and 
emulsifiers. 

Imitation  and  filled  milks  look  and 
taste  like  regular  milk  but  usually  will 
sell  for  less.  However,  these  products — 
particularly  imitation  milk — may  have 
smaller  amounts  of  some  nutrients. 

Nondairy  coffee  whiteners  and 
whipped  toppings  are  examples  of 
other  imitation  products.  Some  of 
these  products  can  be  kept  for  quite 
long  periods  without  refrigeration. 

40 


These  are  some  of  the  newer  proc- 
esses and  substances  that  have  given 
us  many  new  foods.  Along  with  them 
have  come  packages  of  every  descrip- 
tion. Changes  in  food  packages  are  so 
closely  associated  with  the  changes  in 
food  processing  that  neither  could 
have  developed  to  any  great  extent 
without  the  other. 

Packaging  materials  have  been  de- 
veloped which  will  keep  products  a 
long  time.  Some  have  been  fashioned 
into  containers  that  can  be  used  and 
even  reused  at  home. 

Packaging  has  also  cut  down  on  the 
space  needed  for  transporting  prod- 
ucts from  the  processor  to  the  grocer. 
It  has  made  our  self-service  system 
work  more  smoothly. 

In  recent  years,  cans  have  been 
made  easier  to  open  by  adding  the 
tab-pull  opener,  pull-strip,  and  plastic 
lid.  These  containers  are  used  for 
such  diverse  products  as  mustard, 
mayonnaise,  and  more  recently  milk. 
And,  although  plastic  bottles  now  rep- 
resent only  a  small  percent  of  milk 
containers,  their  share  is  increasing. 

Aerosol  containers,  originally  de- 
veloped for  fly  sprays,  are  being  used 
for  such  products  as  whipped  topping, 
cheese  spreads,  and  decorative  cake 
icings.  These  are  proving  quite  popu- 
lar, and  we  may  find  many  more 
foods  adapted  to  this  type  packaging. 

Sauce  mixes  and  instant  mashed 
potatoes  packaged  in  laminated  alu- 
minum envelopes  can  be  kept  on 
kitchen  shelves  for  long  periods.  Extra 
ingredients,  like  flavorings  or  cheese 
which  are  to  be  added  during  home 
preparation  of  mixes,  are  often  put  in 
these  containers. 

Packaging  has  become  so  vital  to 
the  success  of  a  product  that  the 
proper  material  and  type  of  package 
to  be  used  is  generally  decided  upon 
simultaneously  with  development  of 
the  new  item. 

With  all  the  new  products  coming 
on  the  market,  advertising  has  been 
playing  an  important  role.  As  it  would 
be  difficult  for  us  to  find  time  to  dis- 
cover these  products  on  our  own,  TV, 
magazine,  and  newspaper  ads  tell  us 


what  is  new,  what  these  items  can  do, 
and  where  they  can  be  purchased. 
Packages  usually  carry  directions  on 
"how  to  use." 

Advertising  also  helps  processors  to 
build  a  market.  For  companies  to  con- 
tinue to  spend  time  and  money  in 
developing  new  foods,  markets  must 
be  found  and  enough  products  sold 
or  they  will  disappear  from  grocers' 
shelves. 

One  more  point  of  interest  to  most 
of  us  is  the  cost  of  these  new  foods 
in  comparison  to  their  made-at-home 
counterparts.  Some  are  less  expensive. 
But,  so  far,  most  are  more  cosdy. 
Whether  they  are  too  expensive  or  not 
has    to    be    decided    by   each   family 


shopper.  In  the  end,  it  will  probably 
revolve  around  the  value,  monetary 
or  otherwise,  which  she  puts  on  her 
time.  One  thing  for  sure,  with  these 
new  foods  a  homemaker  can  regularly 
give  her  family  a  wide  variety  of  foods. 
She  also  can  prepare  interesting  and 
different  company  dinners,  and  still 
be  rested  enough  to  enjoy  her  guests. 
All  of  this — the  development  of 
new  varieties  of  foods  on  our  farms, 
new  processes  by  our  manufacturers, 
and  new  ways  to  get  these  products 
to  us — is  a  preview  of  the  future. 
As  our  population  grows  in  number 
and  in  affluence,  the  demand  for  more 
and  better  food  and  marketing  services 
will  continue. 


Above,  California  store  displays  mixes  that 
typify  the  constant  flow  of  new  food  products. 
Left,  crawfish  for  today's  food  market,  raised 
in  flooded  Louisiana  rice  fields.  A  few  farmers 
have  begun  producing  these  "crawdads"  as  a 
new  rotation  crop  with  rice. 

41 


Alden  C.  Manchester 

Wholesalers 
and  Brokers: 
Buyers  by 
the  Carload 


Eggs  in  the  nest,  milk  in  the  bucket, 
beef  on  the  hoof,  apples  on  the  tree, 
and  wheat  in  the  field  are  of  no  im- 
mediate value  to  us  who  live  in  cities. 
Before  we  can  buy  such  products,  they 
must  be  harvested,  processed,  pack- 
aged, and  transported.  And  to  do  this 
for  200  million  people  takes  many 
hands  and  many  businesses.  Each  of 
these  has  its  own  part  to  play;  each  is 
important  in  its  own  way.  And  whole- 
salers and  brokers,  the  last  to  handle 
food  on  its  way  from  the  farm  to  the 
grocery,  have  significant  roles  to  play 
in  keeping  our  food  industry  running 
smoothly. 

Can  you  imagine  what  it  would  be 
like  if  each  of  the  tens  of  thousands  of 
food  packers  and  processors  had  to  do 
business  with  each  one  of  the  200,000 
grocery  stores,  plus  an  ever  larger 
number  of  away-from-home  eating 
places?  If  every  one  of  these  companies 
had  a  salesman  visiting  the  same  retail 
store,  the  grocer  wouldn't  have  time 
to  sell  us  what  he  buys.  A  virtual  bed- 
lam could  result. 

Someone  must  bridge  this  gap — to 
bring  together  a  wide  assortment  of 
products  ready  for  delivery  on  short 
notice.  This  is  the  job  of  our  whole- 

42 


salers  and  brokers.  Though  both  are 
go-between  agents  or  middlemen,  their 
methods  of  operation  are  quite  differ- 
ent. The  wholesaler  physically  stocks 
and  sells  food  while  the  broker  is  a 
modern  version  of  the  traveling  sales- 
man— bringing  buyers  and  sellers  to- 
gether without  physically  handling  a 
single  product.  With  this  introduction 
let's  take  a  closer  look  at  how  each  of 
these  "go-betweens"  does  his  job. 

The  wholesaler  buys  by  the  carload 
and  sells  by  the  case.  He  keeps  the 
merchandise  in  some  kind  of  a  ware- 
house located  in  the  area  he  serves. 
This  warehouse  may  be  a  large  build- 
ing with  racks  upon  racks  of  cartons, 
or  it  may  be  one  equipped  with 
sophisticated  equipment  that  controls 
the  temperature  and  even  the  nitrogen 
or  oxygen  content  of  the  air.  He  may 
have  an  office  force  that  checks  out 
orders  to  grocers,  carton  by  carton,  or 
an  automated  operation  that  seems  to 
have  a  mind  of  its  own.  He  may  stock 
onlynonperishables — "dry  groceries" — 
or  a  much  wider  assortment  of  prod- 
ucts. As  in  other  business,  the  owner 
determines  the  kind  of  Wholesaling  and 
warehousing  and  the  products  to  be 
stocked. 

Some  larger  processors  operate  their 
own  "distribution  centers"  which  per- 
form the  wholesaling  function  for  the 
items  that  they  produce.  Large-  and 
medium-size  chains  often  have  their 
own  warehouses;  some  retailers  are 
"affiliated"  with  wholesalers  which  do 
the  buying  for  them.  And,  then,  there 
are  the  independent  wholesalers  with 
no  special  affiliation.  They  buy  prod- 
ucts for,  and  they  sell  to,  any  or  all 
customers  that  come  their  way.  While 
about  three-fourths  of  all  the  non- 
perishables — canned  goods  and  the 
like — sold  in  grocery  stores  are  chan- 
neled through  warehouses  of  proces- 
sors, chains,  and  affiliates,  most  of  the 
perishables  are  still  handled  by  inde- 
pendent wholesalers. 

Many  warehouses  may  have  racks 


Alden  C.  Manchester  is  Chief,  Animal  Products 
Branch,  Marketing  Economics  Division,  Economic 
Research  Service. 


upon  racks  of  cartons  waiting  to  be 
sold.  But  there  are  many  other  types 
as  well.  For  example,  nearly  a  third 
of  our  food  now  goes  to  restaurants, 
cafeterias,  school  and  factory  lunch- 
rooms, hamburger  stands,  vending 
machines,  and  the  like.  Because  of  the 
growing  importance  of  these  away- 
from-home  eating  places,  unique  busi- 
nesses have  developed  to  serve  their 
special  needs. 

Some  wholesalers  specialize  in  sup- 
plying ready-to-cook  roasts,  steaks, 
and  chops.  Meats  are  selected,  cut, 
and  packaged  according  to  exacting 
specifications  so  restaurant  managers 
can  have  better  control  over  their 
costs.  Other  wholesalers  specialize  in 
supplying  hamburgers.  They  buy  the 
beef,  grind,  season,  and  even  shape 
the  patties  ready  for  the  grill.  Several 
hundred  companies  peel  potatoes; 
others  prepare  salad  mixes  so  that  all 


Grocery  warehouse  elevator  rolls  along  narrow 
aisles,  allowing  operator  to  pick  store  orders 
from  either  side.  As  each  case  is  picked,  it  is 
automatically  identified  for  an  individual  store 
and  then  moves  on  conveyor  to  where  the 
orders  are  assembled. 


n 

1     -      M  J 

\2x 

T 
T 
7 

T 

r 

7 
| 

•  Tj\ 

;  [  f .  W-    ijpl     1           ^H       "  fl 

Cj5  WBk 

sfl    lfll*^fl 

fl 

ItLdh^ 

the  cook  has  to  do  is  add  the  dressing. 
Though  these  specialists  provide  a 
sort  of  glamour  to  wholesaling,  those 
who  stock  the  thousands  and  thousands 
of  items  sold  in  our  supermarkets  are 
still  the  backbone  of  these  operations. 
To  perform  the  job  of  wholesaling  in 
an  age  of  rising  costs,  changing  foods, 
and  increasing  customer  demands, 
these  businesses  must  be  run  as  effi- 
ciently as  possible.  In  recent  years, 
companies  have  been  trying  to  stream- 
line many  of  their  operations — the  size 
of  orders,  number  of  deliveries  per 
week,  and  so  on.  Some  use  compli- 
cated machinery  to  shorten  the  time 
and  reduce  the  personnel  needed  to 
fill  orders. 

Though  many  changes  have  been 
made,  visionaries  are  projecting  the 
concept  of  efficient  management  much 
further.  They  foresee  an  automated 
system  of  food  distribution  starting  at 
the  supermarket  checkout  counter  and 
winding  up  at  the  farm.  It  would  go 
something  like  this:  The  first  step 
would  be  to  assign  a  code  number  to 
each  item,  designating  the  processor, 
product,  brand,  grade,  and  package 
size.  This  number  would  be  stamped 
on  each  package  using  a  special  ink  so 
that  as  we  pass  the  checkout  counter 
an  electronic  scanner  could  record  our 
purchases,  item  by  item.  These  records 
would  be  checked  automatically  against 
inventory  lists.  When  the  inventories 
dropped  to  a  predetermined  level,  the 
list  of  items  needed  would  be  trans- 
mitted to  a  wholesaler.  His  computer 
would  print  out  the  order  and  start  it 
on  its  automated  journey  back  to  the 
supermarket. 

But  this  isn't  all!  When  the  whole- 
saler's inventory  drops  down  to  a 
specified  level,  his  computer  would 
relay  an  order  to  the  food  processor. 
And,  finally,  to  carry  this  process  to 
its  conclusion,  the  food  processor's 
computer  would  be  joined  with  the 
farmer's  to  tell  him  what  to  plant  or 
raise.  This  may  seem  rather  far  out, 
but  so  did  circling  the  moon  just  a 
few  short  years  ago. 

Before  leaving  the  wholesalers,  we 
should  recognize  some  of  their  other 

43 


contributions.  Our  modern  whole- 
salers also  provide  a  variety  of  services 
for  their  customers — the  "specialized" 
wholesaler,  for  the  department  he  sup- 
plies in  a  supermarket;  the  "general 
line"  wholesaler,  for  the  whole  store. 
If  a  retailer  wishes,  a  wholesaler  of 
fresh  fruits  and  vegetables  will  virtu- 
ally take  over  the  entire  management 
of  the  produce  department,  including 
ordering,  displays,  and  pricing.  Some 
meat  wholesalers  provide  a  similar 
program. 

Many  "general  line"  wholesalers 
offer  a  complete  range  of  services  from 
helping  to  design  stores  and  to  obtain 
financing,  to  merchandising,  advertis- 
ing, and  pricing.  In  many  ways,  these 
services  are  identical  to  those  offered 
by  chains  to  their  retail  stores. 

Last  but  not  least,  supplies  in  whole- 
salers' warehouses  are  a  reserve  which 
could  keep  us  in  food  for  some  time  in 
case  of  a  breakdown  in  our  transpor- 
tation system  due  to  some  national 
disaster.  It  provides  us  with  a  modest 
insurance  against  such  events. 

Wholesalers  may  have  warehouses 
that  cover  acres;  most  brokers  operate 
out  of  offices  that  are  small  by  com- 
parison. This  is  due  largely  to  the 
different  methods  employed  by  these 
two  kinds  of  middlemen. 

Our  3,000-plus  food  brokers  are 
local  businessmen  whose  job  is  to  find 
a  market  for  the  products  that  packers 
and  processors  want  to  sell  and  the 
items  that  the  grocers  and  wholesalers 
want  to  buy.  Processors  expect  a  broker 
to  be  an  authority  on  local  market 
conditions;  grocers  look  to  him  as  a 
reliable  source  of  supplies  and  a  wide 
selection  of  items  from  which  to  choose. 

To  get  a  general  idea  of  what  our 
grocery  brokers  do,  let's  look  at  a  com- 
posite picture  of  how  they  operate. 

The  average  broker  serves  22  com- 
panies, none  of  which  sell  the  same 
kind  of  products.  He  sells  and  mer- 
chandises 25  brands  and  245  items, 


employs  8  salesmen,  and  has  a  sales 
volume  of  around  $5  million  a  year. 

A  food  broker  operates  in  or  near 
the  city  where  his  office  is  located.  As 
a  rule,  he  is  the  only  local  agent  for 
the  companies  he  represents.  He  works 
on  a  commission  basis,  and  hence  re- 
ceives no  pay  for  his  efforts  until  sales 
are  made. 

The  broker's  salesmen  visit  local 
chain  headquarters,  wholesalers,  and 
retailers  to  get  orders  for  future  deliv- 
eries. These  are  mailed  to  the  respec- 
tive processor;  when  urgent,  they  are 
telephoned  or  tele  typed. 

These  salesmen  provide  customers 
with  information  about  new  products, 
discuss  their  merits  and  the  types  of 
promotions  and  advertising  provided. 
Later,  they  report  back  to  the  com- 
pany about  the  degree  of  acceptance 
of  the  new  products  and  the  problems 
encountered.  At  times,  they  offer  sug- 
gestions on  changes  in  package  sizes 
and  advertising  programs  that  might 
better  suit  local  situations. 

When  a  retailer  is  given  a  special 
allowance  to  feature  a  product  in  his 
newspaper  ads  or  for  in-store  displays, 
the  broker  has  to  furnish  the  company 
proof  that  this  has  been  done — usually 
a  copy  of  the  ad  or  a  picture  of  the 
store  display. 

The  broker's  strongest  traits  are  his 
intimate  knowledge  of  local  market 
conditions;  close  personal  relationships 
with  local  buyers;  and  awareness  of 
the  likes  and  dislikes  of  both  grocers 
and  consumers. 

Wholesalers  and  brokers  bridge  the 
gap  between  us  and  those  who  prepare 
our  food.  They  are  the  necessary  links 
between  the  many  packers  and  proc- 
essors of  food  products,  retail  stores, 
and  away-from-home  eating  places. 
While  the  particular  arrangement  un- 
der which  they  provide  these  services 
can  and  has  changed  over  the  years, 
their  function  is  essential  and  must  be 
performed. 


44 


D.  B.  DeLoach 


A  'Showcase' 
for  Food,  at 
Your  Local 
Supermarket 


Most  of  us  think  we  have  a  herculean 
task  just  to  provide  the  variety  of  food 
which  will  keep  our  family  happy. 
Think,  then,  what  a  task  it  must  be 
for  a  grocer  who  has  to  provide  a 
variety  of  food  which  will  satisfy  a 
thousand  or  more  shoppers! 

Each  of  the  many  Marys,  Marthas, 
and  Pauls  that  make  up  the  present 
and  prospective  market  of  a  grocery 
store  has  preferences  based  upon  his  or 
her  own  background  and  present 
income.  None  is  ever  a  "typical"  or 
"average"  shopper.  Nevertheless,  satis- 
fying all  our  needs  is  the  job  that  faces 
the  owner  or  manager  of  each  of  more 
than  226,000  grocery  stores.  It  is  our 
grocer  who  must  try  to  please  us  at 
any  hour,  of  any  day,  of  any  year  as 
we  shop  in  his  store. 

We  have  always  had  some  kind  of  a 
shopping  mart,  but  the  present  type — 
the  supermarket  and  the  super- 
supermarket — are  largely  products  of 
the  past  25  years.  This  growth  has 
been  stimulated  largely  by  the  rela- 
tively greater  efficiency  and  profita- 
bility of  large  versus  small  volume 
stores.  Apparendy,  the  large  stores 
now  fulfill  best  our  desires  for  a  wide 
variety  of  products  and  other  services. 


Today,  we  seem  to  take  super- 
markets for  granted,  yet  at  the  same 
time,  expect  them  to  do  a  multitude 
of  tasks  for  us.  We  expect  them  to 
stock  the  items  we  want,  change  these 
as  the  seasons  and  our  wants  change, 
guarantee  the  quality  of  the  products 
which  they  sell,  and  take  all  the  risks 
involved  in  trying  to  balance  their 
supplies  with  our  demands.  This  is 
not  a  simple  task,  as  a  closer  look  at 
several  of  their  responsibilities  and 
problems  will  show. 

Food  retailing  is  a  service  business. 
Though  the  kind  and  number  of  serv- 
ices may  vary  greatly  from  store  to 
store,  each  grocer  has  two  jobs — pro- 
viding adequate  supplies  and  selling 
them  to  us.  He  must  anticipate  our 
demands  for  the  thousands  of  items  he 
stocks  as  well  as  the  services  he  must 
provide  to  make  a  sale. 

Supplying  the  items  that  we  want 
requires  him  to  locate,  purchase,  and 
store  a  multitude  of  products.  Selling 
involves  proper  pricing  of  these  and 
determining  how  they  are  to  be  paid 
for — cash  or  credit.  In  fulfilling  those 
functions,  a  grocer  acts  as  an  inter- 
mediary between  his  customers  and 
the  rest  of  the  food  industry.  As  such, 
he  must  establish  and  maintain  good 
working  relationships  in  both  directions. 
A  retailer  who  strives  to  build  his 
business  must  find  an  economical  and 
feasible  way  to  cater  to  his  present 
customers  and,  at  the  same  time,  try 
to  get  others  to  shift  their  patronage 
to  his  store.  One  of  the  most  successful 
ways  has  been  to  stock  a  wide  assort- 
ment of  products  and  brands — both 
food  and  nonfood. 

This  trend  toward  almost  unlimited 
selection  characterizes  most  modern 
supermarkets  with  their  8,000  items 
compared  with  around  3,000  just  two 
decades  ago.  Despite  the  rapid  increase 
in  the  number  and  kinds  of  items  of- 
fered, there  are  indications  that  our 
insatiable  desires  may  not  even  be  fully 
satisfied  by  supermarkets  offering  as 
many  as  9,000  to  1 0,000  different  items. 

D.  B.  DeLoach  is  Professor  of  Agricultural 
Economics,  University  of  California,  Davis. 

45 


This  desire  and  willingness  to  pay  for 
greater  customizing  of  both  products 
and  services  has  spawned  specialty 
bakeries  and  gourmet  shops  that  cater 
to  those  of  us  who  want  "something 
different." 

Supermarkets  are  constantly  offer- 
ing a  different  assortment  of  items. 
But  so  many  new  ones  become  avail- 
able each  year  that  a  retailer  could 
not  possibly  stock  them  all.  Through 
constant  testing  of  customer  responses, 
decisions  are  made  as  to  which  will 
sell  best  in  a  particular  locality.  As  a 
result,  many  new  products  never  reach 
our  supermarket  shelves.  Even  with 
this  restriction,  more  than  half  the 
items  now  stocked  were  not  available 
10  years  ago. 

With  all  of  the  choices  provided  in 
supermarkets,  some  shoppers  still  com- 
plain they  are  being  forced  into  a 
product-use  pattern  by  retailers.  The 
opposing  view  is  that  a  grocer  cannot 
afford  to  handle  all  items  offered  him, 
and  thus  must  choose  among  them. 
Nevertheless,  this  process  of  selection 
still  provides  us  with  a  wider  variety 
from  which  to  choose  than  would  be 
economically  feasible  under  any  other 
supply  system. 

Another  successful  method  used  by 
grocers  to  keep  or  increase  their  sales 
has  been  to  provide  a  wide  range  of 
services.  The  most  important  of  these 
include  check  cashing,  air  condition- 
ing, offstreet  parking,  longer  store 
hours,  and  carryout  services. 

With  grocers  basing  most  of  their 


Items  Important  or  Essential  to  Shoppers 
in  Their  Choice  of  Food  Stores 

Percent  of  shoppers 
interviewed 


Absolutely       Essential  or 

Store  attribute  essential  important 

Is  easy  to  shop 45  75 

Has  wide  selection  of 

items 43  71 

Has    best    quality    of 

meats  in  area 54  67 

Is  easy  to  get  to 39  63 

Has  top  vegetable  and 

fruit  department 43  62 

Has  favorite  brand 38  62 

Is  nearby 34  53 

Gives    best  value  on 

canned  products 32  52 

Has  low  prices  in  area..  31  52 

46 


competitive  strategy  upon  the  wide 
variety  of  products,  brands,  and  serv- 
ices, they  offer,  one  wonders  just  how 
important  these  actually  are  to  the 
customer  in  choosing  a  store.  Inter- 
views of  shoppers  show  that  eight 
factors  ranked  above  prices  as  abso- 
lutely essential  or  important.  Of  these, 
location  of  the  store  and  the  assortment 
and  quality  of  items  offered  were  at 
the  top  of  the  list. 

There  are  all  sorts  of  difficulties  in 
trying  to  balance  supplies  and  services 
with  customers'  demands.  Neverthe- 
less, the  job  of  a  retailer  is  to  solve 
these  problems.  How  well  he  does 
determines  his  success  or  failure.  The 
firms  that  survive  and  prosper  are 
those  that  buy  and  sell  as  efficiently 
as  possible.  Such  firms  are  successful 
in  both  assembling  supplies  and  using 
their  money  and  personnel  resources 
to  achieve  their  business  objectives. 
This  requires  good  planning. 

Because  of  our  consumer  acceptance 
of — or  preference  for — large  super- 
market-type grocery  stores,  most  sales 
are  made  through  this  type  of  market. 

Retailers  often  try  to  lower  their 
unit  output  costs  by  selling  more 
merchandise  without  a  corresponding 
increase  in  such  inputs  as  labor, 
facilities,  and  maintenance.  When 
such  "economies  of  scale"  are  possible, 
total  net  profit  will  rise.  In  fact,  total 
net  profit  might  increase  even  though 
both  the  unit  price  and  total  price 
received  from  sales  are  lowered.  Gen- 
erally, "economies  of  scale"  are  pos- 
sible in  grocery  stores  and  firms. 

Widespread  acceptance  of  the  prin- 
ciple of  economies  of  scale,  the  more 
favorable  net  profits  of  large  as  com- 
pared to  small  firms,  and  the  greater 
ease  with  which  medium  and  large 
chains  can  obtain  investment  capital 
have  brought  us  fewer  but  larger 
stores  and  companies.  An  indication 
of  this  is  that  supermarkets  now  rep- 
resent around  15  percent  of  all  grocery 
stores,  compared  with  6  percent  in 
1954.  Contrary  to  what  many  may 
assume,  all  supermarkets  are  not 
owned  by  the  chains.  According  to 
recent  information,   those   independ- 


Gourmet  section  of  a  food  store. 


ently  owned  represent  about  half  of  all 
supermarkets — which  is  the  same  as  15 
years  ago. 

With  the  growing  importance  of 
supermarkets,  we  are  now  spending  a 
larger  share  of  our  grocery  money  in 
these  big  stores  than  ever  before — 
nearly  three-fourths  today  compared 
with  a  little  more  than  half  in  1954. 
Independently  owned  supermarkets 
have  around  40  percent  of  these  sales. 

Some  people  are  concerned  about 
the  impact  on  communities  of  the 
decline  of  the  small  grocery  store; 
and  others  are  concerned  about  the  in- 
crease in  economic  power  in  the 
hands  of  fewer  companies.  However, 
most  of  us  appear  to  ignore  such  issues 
and  shop  where  we  wish  as  long  as  we 
can  buy  what  we  want  at  satisfactory 
prices.  In  other  words,  if  shopping  and 
sales  patterns  are  indications  of  our 
preferences,  most  of  us  have  chosen  to 
shop  in  supermarkets  regardless  of 
type  of  ownership  or  business  organi- 
zation. Furthermore,  the  pronounced 
and  fairly  rapid  shift  of  patronage 
from  small  to  large  stores  since  World 


War  II  indicates  a  favorable  attitude 
toward  the  supermarket-type  grocery. 

Much  of  the  reason  for  the  increased 
sales  of  supermarkets  can  be  found  in 
the  changes  in  where  we  live,  our 
shopping  patterns,  and  our  incomes. 
Nearly  three-fourths  of  our  population 
lives  in  or  near  large  cities.  And  the 
recent  trend  for  more  of  us  to  move  to 
suburban  areas  has  affected  the  gro- 
cery business  considerably.  Further- 
more, we  don't  want  to  move  to  an 
area  unless  there  is  reasonably  easy 
access  to  supplies  and  services,  partic- 
ularly food. 

New  communities  are  often  built  on 
land  formerly  used  for  farming,  and 
there  are  few,  if  any,  old  stores  large 
enough  to  serve  the  influx  of  people. 
Hence,  this  is  ideal  for  building  new 
modern  stores.  The  investment  in  both 
buildings  and  equipment  is  relatively 
high  as  modern  refrigeration  space, 
frozen  food  display  counters,  parking 
lots,  and  air  conditioning  are  standard 
for  these  suburban  stores.  Supermar- 
kets today  in  these  new  communities 
usually  offer  both  food  and  nonfoods, 

47 


the  latter  ranging  from  clothing  to 
household  appliances.  If  a  wide  range 
of  items  are  not  provided,  satellite 
shops  usually  open  up  and  a  shopping 
center  results  which  fulfills  practically 
all  supply-service  needs. 

Inasmuch  as  three  of  the  first  four 
priorities  for  choosing  a  place  to  shop 
for  food  are  that  it  must  (1)  be  easy 
to  shop,  (2)  have  a  wide  selection  of 
items,  and  (3)  be  easy  to  get  to,  com- 
petitive zeal  often  results  in  too-large 
stores,  an  unduly  big  inventory,  and 
a  notion  that  the  supermarket  must 
handle  "everything." 

Another  competitive  excess  arises 
from  "over storing,"  which  comes  from 
misjudgments  of  the  number  of  stores 
required  to  meet  our  idea  of  "easy  to 
get  to."  Overstoring  has  often  created 
competitive  problems  which  merchants 
have  sought  to  solve  through  addi- 
tional types  of  promotion  which  have 
either  increased  marketing  costs  or 
reduced  profits.  One  evidence  of  the 
trend  toward  overstoring  is  the  fact 
that  in  the  midsixties,  consumers  were 
within  reach  of  5  to  6  supermarkets — 
compared  to  4  or  5  some  10  years 
earlier.  This  ease  of  access  to  more 
supermarkets  results  mainly  from  more 
automobiles,  good  roads,  and  parking 
facilities  provided  by  the  supermarkets. 

About  three-fourths  of  our  grocery 
sales  are  made  by  chain  or  inde- 
pendent supermarkets  that  are  com- 
peting for  the  same  customers.  In 
general,  these  retailers  must  depend 
on  the  same  sources  of  supply  for  most 
of  their  merchandise,  equipment,  and 
buildings. 

Except  for  the  private  brands  of 
chainstores  and  of  a  few  independent 
supermarkets,  most  grocers  handle  the 
same  brands.  Even  their  store  equip- 
ment and  buildings  may  be  built  by 
the  same  companies,  using  the  same 
plans.  This  leads  to  a  high  degree  of 
standardization  of  merchandise  and 
facilities  of  various  types.  Hence,  it  is 
evident  that  something  unusual  has  to 
be  done  to  induce  customers  to  shop 
at  one  store  in  preference  to  another. 
The  most  vital  question  for  an  indi- 
vidual grocer  is  how  best  to  get  and 

48 


to  keep  enough  customers  to  make  his 
business  profitable. 

Given  the  amount  of  standardization 
of  products  and  services  that  are  found 
in  all  our  grocery  stores,  it  would  seem 
that  prices  would  be  the  logical  method 
of  competition.  To  be  sure,  there  is  a 
considerable  amount  of  similarity  in 
the  prices  of  a  number  of  products. 
But,  because  "across-the-board"  price 
cutting  is  regarded  as  too  risky  and 
self-destructive,  grocers  have  tended 
to  be  conservative  in  the  use  of  this 
practice. 

With  the  advent  of  "discount"  gro- 
cery stores,  the  barrier  to  "across-the- 
board"  price  cutting  may  be  weakening. 
Recently,  some  rather  noticeable  down- 
ward adjustments  in  pricing  policies 
have  occurred.  Because  of  the  lowering 
pf  prices  and  resulting  gross  margins, 
there  have  been  severe  pressures  upon 
the  retailers  to  reduce  their  operating 
costs.  This  has  made  necessary  sub- 
stantial cutbacks'  in  so-called  services, 
or  an  increase  in  total  sales. 

A  quick  examination  of  the  practices 
of  five  chainstore  firms  which  have 
adopted  a  lower  markup  policy  shows 
they  tried  to  compensate  for  the  lower 
margins  by  reducing  the  number  of 
items  handled,  eliminating  promotions 
such  as  trading  stamps  and  games, 
cutting  down  the  number  of  hours  and 
days  their  stores  are  open,  eliminating 
carryout  services,  and  cutting  back  on 
their  maintenance  costs.  It  was  as- 
sumed that  such  economies  and  the 
increase  in  customers  resulting  from 
lower  prices  would  yield  greater  net 
revenue.  Some  of  the  first  companies 
to  adopt  this  pricing  policy  did  achieve 
good  results.  The  main  question,  how- 
ever, is  whether  "all"  our  grocers  can 
follow  this  practice  and  get  the  same 
favorable  results. 

The  National  Commission  on  Food 
Marketing  estimated  that  it  would  take 
an  average  of  a  21 -percent  increase  in 
sales  to  obtain  a  5-percent  decrease  in 
store-operating  costs.  If  this  is  correct, 
it  is  evident  there  will  have  to  be  sub- 
stantial reductions  in  the  number  of 
grocery  stores  to  have  an  increase  in 
sales  of  this  size  per  store,  or  the  total 


demand  for  food  and  services  will  have 
to  rise. 

Because  the  expenditures  in  grocery 
stores  directly  affect  most  of  us,  prices 
and  profits  are  watched  closely.  De- 
spite all  efforts  to  keep  prices  from  in- 
creasing too  much,  the  retail  food 
price  index  has  been  going  up.  This, 
of  course,  has  stimulated  consumers 
and  government  agencies  to  try  to 
find  out  the  cause.  One  of  the  most 
recent  inquiries,  made  by  the  National 
Commission  on  Food  Marketing, 
found  that  the  chainstore  margins  had 
increased  28  percent  in  the  past  20 
years.  Since  gross  margins  (difference 
between  the  cost  of  the  products  and 
the  selling  price)  accounted  for  only 
around  a  fifth  of  the  increase  in  prices, 
the  remaining  four-fifths  had  to  be 
due  to  the  higher  prices  paid  out  for 
supplies  and  other  needs. 

In  order  of  importance,  the  primary 
contributing  factors  to  higher  gross 
margins  have  been  the  costs  of  labor, 
rent  and  real  estate,  and  promotion. 
Though  this  has  been  the  case,  many 
people  have  blamed  rising  prices  on 
the  domination  of  a  few  firms  in  the 
retail  food  business.  Since  the  gross 
retail  margin  includes  whatever  profits 
remain  after  paying  all  expenses,  the 
real  question  is  whether  margins  rose 
because  of  higher  net  profits. 

The  Commission's  data  show  that, 
because  net  profits  per  dollar  of  sales 
average  about  one  cent,  higher  retail 
store  profits  have  not  been  the  major 
reason  for  the  gradual  rise  in  prices 
and  margins.  Nevertheless,  the  Com- 
mission concluded  that,  during  most 
of  the  postwar  period,  profits  of  retail 
food  chains  have  been  high  in  relation 
to  other  industries.  Moreover,  large 
profits  in  relation  to  dollars  invested 
have  contributed  to  the  overstoring 
that  plagues  the  grocery  business. 

Retail  food  stores  employ  about  1.6 
million  workers,  about  45  percent  of 
them  women.  Based  on  current  statis- 
tics, wages  paid  to  workers  in  retail 
food  stores  amount  to  around  $5 
billion.  The  administrative  employees 
probably  add  in  another  $1  billion. 

While  these  are  rough  approxima- 


tions, they  do  indicate  the  magnitude 
of  the  labor  bill  in  the  grocery  retailing 
business. 

The  growing  importance  of  grocery 
chains  and  independent  supermarkets 
which  operate  under  fairly  uniform 
labor  contracts  has  tended  to  raise 
the  level  of  wages  and  employee  bene- 
fits. Today,  these  compare  favorably 
with  other  industries  that  require  com- 
parable education,  skills,  and  expe- 
rience. In  addition,  competition  for 
workers  has  had  a  beneficial  influence 
on  other  conditions  of  employment, 
particularly  fringe  benefits.  Because 
the  retail  grocery  business,  like  many 
others,  is  undergoing  rapid  technologi- 
cal change  in  almost  every  phase  of  its 
operations,  it  is  now  competing  with 
other  industries  for  highly  trained 
people,  skilled  workers,  and  managers. 
The  larger  retail  grocery  firms  can 
also  offer  employees  opportunities  for 
on-the-job  training  and  advancement 
into  managerial  positions.  Such  op- 
portunities were  much  more  restricted 
in  small,  family-operated  stores. 

Other  costs  have  been  rising,  also. 
Rent  and  real  estate  costs  have  been 
going  up  and  on  the  average,  account 
for  about  10  and  13  percent,  respec- 
tively, of  the  operating  costs  of  food 
retailers.  Significantly,  the  increase  in 
promotional  costs  for  single-store  own- 
ers has  almost  doubled  in  the  past  15 
years,  which  reflects  the  competitive 
conditions  in  the  retail  grocery  trade. 

The  shift  of  our  purchases  from  small 
retailers  to  supermarket-type  stores 
is  exerting  an  unrelenting  competitive 
pressure  upon  the  small,  single-store 
firms.  Unless  our  shopping  patterns 
begin  to  change,  the  very  existence  of 
the  small  grocery  is  seriously  threat- 
ened. This  in  turn  implies  still  further 
concentration  of  retail  sales  in  larger 
establishments. 

We  have  discussed  the  past  and 
present  status  and  problems  of  our 
grocery  stores.  This  makes  us  wonder 
what  the  future  will  bring.  At  times, 
it  seems  that  all  possible  changes  must 
have  taken  place,  but  in  this  tech- 
nological age,  such  conclusions  can 
prove  quite  naive. 

49 


"Company  cuts"   and    aged    prime    beef  are 
featured  at  this  meat  counter. 


Those  who  try  to  look  into  the 
future  anticipate  many  changes  in  our 
grocery  stores — in  size,  location,  items 
stocked,  and  use  of  automation.  Here, 
in  brief,  is  what  is  frequently  predicted : 

In  new  suburban  areas,  many  super- 
markets have  been  turned  into  a 
modern  version  of  the  old  general 
store.  This  trend  will  probably  con- 
tinue until  food  may  represent  only 
half  or  less  of  total  store  sales.  Food 
may  be  a  department  in  the  store — 
rather  than  its  chief  purpose.  To 
balance  this,  the  current  trend  toward 


convenience  or  bantam  stores  will 
accelerate.  These  will  take  the  place 
of  the  corner  or  neighborhood  grocery. 
Some  of  the  bantam  stores  may  be 
located  in  high-rise  apartments  and 
even  in  office  buildings  to  make  it 
still  easier  to  shop. 

New  food  items  will  appear  and 
disappear  in  a  much  shorter  time  than 
in  the  past.  They  will  be  advertised 
in  a  way  to  bring  customers  into  a 
particular  store  since  competition  will 
have  become  more  intense. 

Competition  to  keep  up  sales  volume 
also  increases  as  more  people  eat  more 
meals  away  from  home.  Stores  will 
carry  more  ready-to-eat  items,  and 
family  sized,  precooked,  frozen  food 
entrees  will  be  offered  to  entice  people 
to  fix  quickie  meals  at  home  rather 
than  eating  out. 

Because  innercity  supermarkets  can- 
not expand  in  size  as  much  as  those  in 
suburban  areas,  shelf  space  will  be  at 
a  premium.  This  should  lead  to  stricter 
inventory  controls.  Fast-selling  items 
will  be  given  more  space  and  slower 
moving  ones  less.  The  actual  amount 
allotted  various  products  will  be  deter- 
mined by  formulas,  and  computers 
will  be  used  to  signal  the  point  for 
replenishing  of  stock  and  transmitting 
orders  to  a  warehouse  or  wholesaler. 
This  will  help  keep  in-store  inventories 
at  a  minimum. 

Automation  may  be  carried  even 
further.  Some  predict  we  will  put  a  card 
in  a  slot  beside  each  item  we  want  as 
we  travel  around  the  store.  When  we 
reach  the  checkout  counter,  our  pur- 
chases will  be  ready  and  the  bill  totaled. 
But  different  from  today,  we  may  not 
pay  our  bill  with  cash.  It  may  be 
automatically  transferred  to  our  check- 
ing account  or  to  some  central  credit 
system. 

It  will  be  interesting  to  see  how  these 
predictions  work  out. 


50 


Stephen  J.  Hiemstra 

Telescoping 
20  Years  of 
Change  in  the 
Food  We  Eat 


Many  things  have  been  happening 
during  the  past  two  decades.  We  have 
fought  two  wars.  Cars  have  become 
more  powerful.  Social  problems  have 
grown  more  acute.  The  stock  market 
has  boomed.  Prices  have  risen.  Our 
incomes  have  doubled.  And  we're  eat- 
ing differendy,  too. 

Though  changes  in  what  we  eat  may 
not  be  in  the  same  league  with  the 
others,  they're  equally  important  to 
each  of  us,  or  possibly  even  more  im- 
portant. So,  let's  look  at  the  broad 
changes  that  have  taken  place. 

There  are  many  ways  to  look  at 
what  has  happened  to  our  food  buying. 
We  can  examine  our  own  buying  and 
stop  there.  Or  we  can  see  what  kind 
and  how  much  food  is  used  by  families 
with  different  incomes;  by  small  and 
large  families;  or  by  those  living  in 
cities  and  on  farms.  As  a  starter,  let's 
see  how  we,  a  Nation  of  some  200  mil- 
lion people,  eat  differendy  now  than 
we  did  just  20  years  ago  when  there 
were  50  million  fewer  of  us  and  our 
incomes  were  about  half  as  big. 

Probably  the  one  change  we  notice 
most  is  the  arrival  of  a  host  of  new  and 
radically  different  items  on  our  grocery 
shelves.  Some  of  these  are  old  foods  in 


new  sizes,  shapes,  or  packages.  Others 
are  new  products.  For  example,  con- 
sider the  large  variety,  many  sizes,  and 
strange  shapes  of  breakfast  cereals. 
These  come  presweetened  and  un- 
sweetened; plain  or  with  freeze-dried 
fruit  added;  uncooked  and  precooked; 
and  even  specially  prepared  for  babies. 
Some  cereals  snap,  crackle,  and  pop. 
Others  just  lie  there  and  soak  up  milk. 
But  most  are  still  made  from  wheat, 
corn,  or  rice. 

Less  noticeable,  but  perhaps  even 
more  important,  is  the  change  in  the 
relative  amounts  of  different  kinds  of 
foods  we're  buying.  Today,  we  use 
more  meat  and  poultry  per  person; 
more  processed  fruits  and  vegetables, 
margarine,  and  salad  and  cooking  oils 
than  we  did  back  in  1950.  While  in- 
creasing use  of  these  foods,  we've  cut 
down  on  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables, 
dairy  and  cereal  products,  eggs,  and 
some  of  our  beverages. 

While  our  buying  patterns  have 
changed,  we  are  bringing  home  from 
the  supermarket  only  about  5  percent 
more  food  per  person  than  we  were 
10  years  ago.  But  during  this  period 
the  population  of  our  country  has 
grown  by  a  third.  So  as  a  Nation  we 
are  buying  much  more  food. 

Beef  and  broilers  have  been  the  big 
gainers  in  our  increased  individual 
buying  of  meat  and  poultry  products. 

The  rise  in  our  use  of  beef  has  been 
due  mainly  to  our  growing  preference 
for  steaks  and  hamburgers.  We  are 
buying  more  beef  despite  an  increase 
in  beef  prices. 

Pork  chops  and  ham  are  not  as 
popular  as  they  were  at  one  time, 
although  they  have  risen  in  price  no 
more  than  beef.  The  amount  we  buy 
varies  considerably  from  year  to  year, 
but  pork  chops  and  ham  don't  com- 
mand the  prestige  of  steak.  Our  pref- 
erence for  beef  is  indicated,  also,  in 
the  smaller  amount  we  buy  of  veal 
and  lamb. 

Chicken  and  turkey  have  become 


Stephen  J.  Hiemstra,  an  agricultural  economist, 
is  Head  of  the  Food  Consumption  and  Utilization 
Section,  Economic  Research  Service. 


51 


year-round  items — not  as  much  the 
Sunday,  Thanksgiving,  or  Christmas 
treat  they  used  to  be.  We're  buying 
nearly  twice  as  much  of  these  as  we 
did  back  in  1950,  mainly  because  the 
prices  are  much  lower.  But  as  before, 
we  still  use  much  more  chicken  than 
turkey. 

And  we  aren't  the  "eggheads"  we 
used  to  be.  The  popularity  of  eggs  has 
declined  along  with  our  traditional 
American  breakfast.  Toast  and  coffee 
for  adults  and  cereal  and  milk  for  the 
kids  have  become  the  standard  fare. 
Rising  prices  for  prepared  cereals  and 
the  declining  prices  for  eggs  have  not 
stemmed  the  tide. 

Most  dairy  products  have  gone  the 
way  of  eggs.  Fresh  whole  milk,  cream, 
evaporated  milk,  and  butter  have  borne 
the  brunt  of  this  drop.  To  an  increas- 
ing degree,  nondairy  products — coffee 
creamers  and  whipped  toppings — are 
being  used  in  place  of  cream.  But  in 
the  process,  these  new  products  have 
enlarged  the  total  market  for  creamers 
and  toppings.  More  recently  substi- 
tutes like  "filled  milk"  have  started 
to  make  inroads  in  our  purchases  of 
whole  milk.  Vegetable  fats  are  used  in 
this  product  to  replace  butterfat.  On 
the  other  hand,  cheese  and  low-fat 
milk  have  gained  in  popularity. 

One  of  the  biggest  stories,  however, 
is  our  shift  from  butter  to  margarine. 
But  our  purchases  of  total  "table 
spreads"  haven't  changed  very  much. 
Twenty  years  ago,  we  bought  around 
twice  as  much  butter  as  margarine. 
Today,  it's  just  about  the  reverse. 

Along  with  increasing  our  use  of 
vegetable  oils  in  the  form  of  margarine, 
we  are  buying  larger  quantities  of 
these  oils  as  cooking  and  salad  oils. 
Lard,  an  animal  fat  and  a  longtime 
favorite,  is  being  used  less  for  cooking, 
but  is  gaining  in  importance  as  an 
ingredient  in  solid  shortenings  and 
other  products. 

Contrary  to  what  we  might  expect 
in  this  age  of  affluence,  our  total  use 
of  fruits  and  vegetables  has  gone  down. 
In  spite  of  the  fact  that  most  fresh 
fruits  and  vegetables  are  available  the 
year  round,  they  are  not  used  in  as 

52 


Oatmeal  prepared  in  cereal  dish.  Just  adding 
hot  water  to  this  new  product  makes  old-time 
favorite  an  "instant"  breakfast  food. 


large  quantities  as  they  were  20  years 
ago.  Instead,  we  are  buying  more 
processed  products,  with  frozen  vege- 
tables and  citrus  concentrates  leading 
the  way.  Then  too,  some  of  the  newer 
methods  of  processing,  such  as  freeze- 
drying,  are  being  used  on  some  of  these 
foods.  We  have  freeze-dried  straw- 
berries in  cereals,  freeze-dried  vege- 
tables in  dry  soup  mixes. 

Price  and  convenience  helped  bring 
about  this  change  in  our  food  buying. 
Prices  for  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables 
have  gone  up  much  faster  than  for 
processed  products,  even  though  proc- 
essed product  prices  have  risen  faster 
than  for  most  other  foods.  And  the 
processed  products  offer  us  more  con- 
venience and  variety. 


What  has  happened  to  our  old 
standby  the  potato  is  almost  sensa- 
tional. After  a  long  period  during 
which  we  used  smaller  and  smaller 
quantities  each  year,  potatoes  now 
seem  to  have  come  into  their  own. 
Though  we  still  haven't  increased  our 
use  of  fresh  potatoes,  our  purchases 
of  processed  products  are  more  than 
making  up  for  this.  Today,  we  can  buy 
them  canned,  frozen,  and  dried.  And, 
within  each  of  these  kinds,  there's  a 
wide  enough  selection  to  fit  into  almost 
any  menu  from  breakfast — if  you  like 
hash  browns  or  fried — to  the  most 
elegant  dinner. 

Finally,  we  are  purchasing  smaller 
quantities  of  flour,  some  cereal  prod- 
ucts, and  coffee  than  we  did  two . 
decades  earlier.  The  amount  of  wheat 
flour  used  in  all  consumer  products 
has  been  going  down  at  a  rate  of  about 
1  pound  per  person  per  year,  though 
now  the  rate  appears  to  be  slowing  up 
somewhat.  On  the  other  hand,  we're 
buying  more  rice  and  corn  products. 
Though  purchases  of  cornmeal  have 
gone  down  along  with  the  drop  in 
home  baking,  the  use  of  corn  in  break- 
fast cereals  has  increased. 

In  addition,  much  more  corn  is  be- 
ing used  for  making  sugar  and  sirups, 
most  of  which  goes  into  candy  and 
processed  foods. 

Despite  the  growing  importance  of 
corn  sweeteners  and  the  rising  popu- 
larity of  noncaloric  sweeteners,  our 
total  use  of  sugar  has  remained  fairly 
stable.  Soft  drinks  take  the  largest 
amount  of  the  noncaloric  sweeteners 
as  our  weight  watchers  continue  to 
buy  more  and  more  of  these.  Alto- 
gether, over  two-thirds  of  all  sweet- 
eners are  being  used  in  processed 
food  and  beverages. 

Though  it  seems  it  can't  be  true, 
we  are  drinking  less  coffee  than  we 
did — at  least  we've  been  using  smaller 
amounts  of  coffee  beans.  Part  of  this 
change  is  due  to  the  introduction  of 
"instant"  coffee  during  the  fifties, 
which  now  has  stabilized  at  nearly  a 
fifth  of  our  coffee  consumption.  But  use 
of  "instant"  tea  continues  to  expand. 

All  of  these  shifts  in  our  food  pur- 


chases make  us  wonder  why  we  made 
them.  There  are  probably  as  many 
reasons  as  there  are  families,  but  here 
are  some  that  are  important.  First, 
there's  the  size  of  our  paycheck.  As 
our  income  goes  up,  we  tend  to  buy 
a  little  more  food — but  not  too  much- 
more.  If  there's  no  change  in  prices, 
we  tend  to  increase  the  total  quantity 
purchased  by  1  or  2  percent  for  each 
10-percent  increase  in  our  income. 
Added  to  this,  we  tend  to  buy  higher 
priced  items. 

By  contrast,  if  prices  go  up  and  our 
income  stays  the  same,  we  tend  to 
buy  2  to  3  percent  less  food  with  each 
10-percent  increase  in  price.  In  this 
case,  we  tend  to  shift  to  lower  priced 
food  items. 

As  we  all  know,  during  recent  years 
we've  had  rising  incomes  and  rising 
food  prices.  So  let's  see  what  effect 
this  combination  has  had  upon  our 
buying  practices. 

During  the  past  20  years,  prices  of 
meat,  fruits  and  vegetables,  cereal  and 
bakery  products,  dairy  products,  and 
vegetable  oils  have  increased.  At  the 
same  time,  those  of  poultry,  eggs,  and 
coffee  have  gone  down.  Our  use  of 
fresh  fruits  and  vegetables,  cereals,  and 
dairy  products  went  down  as  prices 
went  up.  But  we  ate  more  meat,  used 
more  processed  fruits  and  vegetables, 
and  used  more  vegetable  oils  despite 
their  rise  in  price — showing  our  prefer- 
ence for  these  foods. 

We  bought  larger  quantities  of  poul- 
try products  as  prices  went  down.  But 
even  though  prices  went  down,  we 
bought  fewer  eggs.  Our  change  in 
breakfast  habits  may  be  responsible 
for  some  reduction  in  the  use  of  eggs. 

All  of  us  together  spend  more  than 
$  1 00  billion  a  year  for  food — yet  today, 
this  represents  only  a  fraction  more 
than  17  percent  of  our  take-home  pay. 
In  1950,  we  spent  22  percent  of  our  in- 
comes for  food;  in  1960,  we  spent  20 
percent.  To  make  today's  1 7-plus  per- 
cent even  more  significant,  note  that 
we  are  having  a  larger  share  of  our 
food  preparation  done  for  us  now  than 
two  decades  ago. 

So  far,  all  the  figures  given  have  been 

53 


Researcher  studies  effects  of 
microwave  heating  on  a  frozen 
precooked  hamburger.  Many 
foods  are  dispensed  from  refrig- 
erated vending  machines  and 
brought  to  serving  temperature 
by  customers  placing  them  in 
microwave  oven. 


averages  for  our  Nation  as  a  whole. 
This  is  one  way  we  determine  the  eco- 
nomic direction  we're  traveling.  But, 
each  of  us  is  likely  to  face  a  somewhat 
different  combination  of  circumstances. 
We  may  have  had  smaller  or  even 
larger  increases  in  our  incomes  than 
the  average  or  a  larger- than-average- 
size  family.  We  may  have  moved  from 
one  part  of  our  country  to  another  or 
from  the  farm  to  the  city.  Then  too, 
some  families  attach  more  importance 
to  gourmet  foods  than  others.  Any 
of  these  things  will  affect  an  indi- 
vidual family's  purchasing,  and  make 
it  vary  from  the  "average." 

A  recent  study  found  that  the  per- 
centage of  income  spent  upon  food 
varied  from  around  30  percent  for 
families  with  incomes  below  $3,000 
to  around  1 2  percent  for  those  earning 
$15,000  or  more.  About  a  third  of  the 
money  spent  for  food  by  the  highest 
income  group  went  for  meals  and 
snacks  eaten  away  from  home.  Low- 
income  families  spent  a  much  smaller 
share  of  their  food  budget  away  from 
their  homes. 

54 


Two-person  families  spent  an  aver- 
age of  19  percent  of  their  income  for 
food  compared  with  26  percent  by 
families  with  6  or  more  persons.  Of 
course,  part  of  these  differences  were 
associated  with  income  variations — 
the  larger  families  having  the  higher 
total  incomes  but  smaller  incomes  per 
family  member. 

The  study  also  showed  that  after 
allowing  for  home-produced  food, 
farm  families  used  a  larger  share  of 
their  income  for  food  than  families 
living  in  cities.  Again,  part  of  this 
difference  was  due  to  variations  in 
level  of  income. 

Though  regional  differences  were 
small,  families  in  the  north-central 
and  western  regions  spent  less  of  their 
incomes  for  food  than  those  in  the 
Northeast  and  South. 

This  is  a  telescoped  picture  of  our 
use  of  food  as  a  Nation  over  the  past 
two  decades.  If  current  predictions 
come  true,  the  next  two  decades  will 
bring  large  additions  to  our  incomes 
and  many  more  changes  in  the  kind 
of  foods  we  buy. 


Denis  F.  Dunham 
Robert  E.  Frye 


Shedding  Light 
on  the  Prices 
We  Pay  for 
Our  Food 


How  often  have  you  heard  a  neighbor 
say,  "Aren't  food  prices  high  these 
days?"  Or  had  her  imply  that  by  re- 
marking, "I  spent  $35  at  the  grocery 
yesterday  and  don't  have  a  thing  for 
dinner."  Chances  are  each  of  us  has 
made  these  or  similar  comments.  But 
why  is  it,  in  a  country  where  many 
have  two  cars,  two  television  sets,  and 
even  a  boat,  that  we  are  so  aware  of 
food  prices  and  express  so  much 
interest  in  them?  And  why  is  it  we 
seem  to  be  more  aware  of  prices  that 
go  up  than  those  that  go  down? 

There  are  probably  lots  of  reasons 
why  we  are  so  conscious  about  in- 
creases in  food  prices.  For  one  thing, 
food  is  a  major  item  in  most  family 
budgets.  Then,  too,  it's  purchased 
frequently,  and  any  price  changes  are 
quickly  reflected  in  our  pocketbooks. 
For  something  that  touches  our  every- 
day lives  and  affects  our  finances  as 
much  as  food,  we  are  almost  always 
comparing  prices. 

Price  by  itself  is  a  relatively  simple 
word,  but  it  can  have  a  variety  of 
meanings.  It  can  have  one  meaning 
to  those  who  examine  the  state  of  the 
Nation's  economy;  another  to  farm- 


ers, processors,  and  retail  store  owners. 
And  still  another  to  each  of  us  as 
consumers.  Food  prices  may  be  the 
figures  stamped  on  packages  or  car- 
tons, but  if  we  are  to  understand  their 
real  meaning,  we  have  to  know  what 
they  represent  and  what  it  is  that 
makes  them  change. 

Food  prices  represent  the  sum  of  the 
costs  incurred  and  profits  earned  by 
farmers,  processors,  and  retail  store 
operators  in  providing  us  with  a  host 
of  products  and  services.  And  in  one 
way  or  another,  all  these  prices  are 
affected  by  the  same  economic  con- 
ditions that  determine  those  of  other 
goods  and  services  important  in  our 
day-to-day  living.  Because  the  food 
industry  is  interconnected  with  every 
other  segment  of  our  national  econ- 
omy, it  must  compete  in  the  national 
market  for  labor,  materials,  equip- 
ment, and  other  needs.  Thus,  food 
prices  tend  to  follow  the  general  price 
trend  in  the  Nation. 

Though  this  is  the  overall  situation, 
the  value  assigned  to  a  product  may 
be  different  for  the  farmer,  the  proc- 
essor, the  neighborhood  grocer,  the 
supermarket  operator,  and  the  low- 
or  the  high-income  shopper.  In  these 
various  capacities,  each  will  have  a 
level,  real  or  imagined,  that  becomes 
the  basis  for  determining  the  reason- 
ableness of  a  price.  And  at  each  of 
these  stages — producing,  marketing, 
and  purchasing — the  value  placed  on 
a  product  may  be  different  tomorrow. 

Most  everyone  knows  that  food  prices 
have  been  going  up — sometimes  at  a 
slow  pace,  sometimes  at  a  faster  one. 
While  we  may  not  have  all  the  facts 
needed  to  explain  why,  most  of  us 
have  opinions  about  who  and  what 
are  causing  the  changes.  So  let's  look 
at  food  prices  from  the  various  view- 
points, starting  with  their  relation  to 
our  Nation's  economy. 

One  way  to  compare  changes  in  the 
food  price  level  is  to  see  what  has 
happened  to  prices  of  other  goods  and 

Denis  F.  Dunham  and  Robert  E.  Frye  are 
agricultural  economists,  Market  Development  and 
Performance  Branch,  Marketing  Economics  Divi- 
sion, Economic  Research  Service. 

55 


Checkout  counter  at  Washington,  D.C.,  supermarket. 


services.  Since  food  is  but  one  item 
in  our  family  budget,  it  should  not 
be  singled  out  as  the  sole  reason — or 
even  the  most  important  reason — for 
changes  in  the  cost  of  living. 

On  the  national  level,  comparisons 
of  prices  are  made  using  the  Consumer 
Price  Index.  This  index  measures  the 
changes  from  month  to  month  in  the 
overall  level  of  prices  of  all  goods  and 
services,  and  those  of  major  groups, 
such  as  housing,  apparel  and  upkeep, 
transportation,  health  and  recreation, 
and  food.  These  major  categories  are 

56 


also  divided  into  important  subgroups. 
For  example,  the  Food  Index  has  two, 
one  designed  to  show  changes  in  the 
price  of  food  used  at  home  and  the 
other  to  show  changes  in  prices  of  food 
eaten  away  from  home.  Each  month, 
the  same  list  of  foods  is  priced  in  cities 
around  the  country.  Then,  these  are 
compared  with  the  average  price  of 
the  same  item  during  the  3-year  period 
1957-59,  to  determine  which  foods 
have  changed  in  price  and  how  much 
this  has  affected  a  family's  food  bill. 
The  index  for  all  items,  the  one  that 


indicates  how  much  the  cost  of  living 
has  changed,  shows  that  during  the 
past  10  years  the  prices  of  all  goods 
and  services  important  in  our  day-to- 
day living  have  gone  up  21  percent. 
During  the  same  period,  food,  housing, 
apparel  and  upkeep,  and  transporta- 
tion went  up  about  20  percent.  In 
contrast,  the  index  for  health  and  rec- 
reation went  up  30  percent. 

The  Consumer  Price  Index  may 
have  more  meaning  to  us  if  we  look  at 
changes  in  prices  of  the  subgroups. 
For  example,  prices  of  food  at  the 
grocery  have  gone  up  only  16  percent 
in  the  past  10  years  compared  to  36 
percent  for  food  in  public  eating 
places.  During  these  same  years,  foot- 
wear went  up  32  percent  in  price; 
homeownership,  27  percent;  public 
transportation,  38  percent;  and  med- 
ical care,  45  percent.  The  index  for 
gas  and  electricity  changed  the  least, 
going  up  only  10  percent. 

Prices  of  goods  and  services  have 
been  going  up  for  many  reasons.  The 
decade  of  the  1960's  has  been  a  period 
of  rapidly  rising  incomes  and  falling 
rates  of  unemployment.  Such  condi- 
tions are  usually  associated  with  some 
degree  of  inflation,  for  as  the  number 
of  persons  without  jobs  goes  down, 
wages  tend  to  be  bid  up  and  incomes 
rise.  If  these  higher  wages  and  other 
costs  are  not  offset  by  gains  in  pro- 
duction efficiency,  prices  usually  rise. 

Fortunately,  for  a  large  share  of 
Americans,  higher  prices  have  been 
accompanied  by  wage  increases.  On 
the  average,  our  incomes  have  more 
than  kept  pace  with  prices.  If  they 
didn't,  we  would  not  have  the  new 
homes,  the  two  cars,  or  the  two 
television  sets  many  of  us  enjoy  today. 

Price  changes  are  also  measured  in 
other  ways.  The  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture  measures  trends  in  prices 
of  foods  that  originate  on  U.S.  farms 
by  changes  in  the  cost  of  a  "market 
basket."  This  market  basket  is  based 
upon  the  average  quantities  of  food 
purchased  per  year  in  1960-61  by 
urban  wage  earner  and  clerical  worker 
families  and  single  workers  living 
alone.  It  excludes  imported  foods  and 


WHERE  OUR  FOOD  DOLLAR  GOES 
Farmer's  Share     .39 


™-p—»»i*i**» 


Marketing  Share      .61 


111 


seafoods  which  are  not  produced  on 
U.S.  farms.  Quantities  and  qualities 
of  foods  in  this  market  basket  are  held 
constant  so  that  price  changes  are  not 
affected  by  shifts  in  our  purchasing 
patterns.  The  cost  of  this  basket  of 
food  is  estimated,  using  retail  prices 
that  are  published  by  the  Bureau  of 
Labor  Statistics. 

During  the  past  10  years,  the  retail 
cost  of  the  market  basket  has  increased 
about  14  percent.  This  means  that  for 
every  $10  spent  upon  these  foods  a 
decade  ago,  we  spend  $11.40  today. 
However,  three-fifths  of  the  rise  oc- 
curred in  1965  and  1966,  and  the 
consumer  boycotts  followed.  If  this 
increase  had  been  evenly  distributed 
over  the  entire  period,  we  probably 
wouldn't  have  been  as  aware  of  the 
rise  in  prices. 

For  most  of  the  past  decade,  rising 
marketing  costs  have  been  the  main 
cause  of  higher  food  prices.  Moreover, 
since  1957-59  marketing  costs  have 
caused  two-thirds  of  the  increase  in 
the  retail  cost  of  the  market  basket. 

57 


The  rise  in  food  prices  in  1965  and 
1966  that  seemed  to  trigger  the  grocery 
boycotts  was  unusual  in  that  farm 
prices  played  a  major  role,  although 
the  boycotts  were  not  aimed  at  farm- 
ers. After  going  down  in  the  early 
1960's,  farm  prices  rose  sharply  during 
the  last  months  of  1965  and  the  first 
part  of  1966.  These  changes  in  farm 
prices  were  the  result  of  smaller  sup- 
plies of  important  foods  and  a  greater 
demand  due  to  significant  increases  in 
family  incomes,  sales  of  food  to  foreign 
countries,  and  military  requirements. 
In  1 967,  a  decline  in  farm  prices  caused 
a  drop  in  retail  prices,  but  farm  and 
retail  prices  rose  again  in  1 968.  Market- 
ing costs  continued  to  go  up  during  the 
1965-68  period,  causing  some  of  the 
rise  in  food  prices. 

Prices  are  important  to  farmers,  for 
about  2  out  of  every  3  dollars  they 
receive  go  for  expenses  such  as  live- 
stock feed,  fertilizer,  pesticides,  and 
fuel,  or  are  absorbed  by  overhead 
business  costs  such  as  depreciation  on 
buildings  and  equipment.  The  other  1 
dollar  is  the  return  for  their  work  and 
on  their  capital  investment.  So  far, 
prices  of  things  needed  to  operate 
farms  have  increased  much  more  than 
those  farmers  have  received.  Fortu- 
nately, some  farmers  have  been  able  to 
expand  production  enough  to  offset 
part  of  these  increases  in  costs. 

To  add  to  the  problems  of  farmers, 
prices  of  farm  products  are  unstable 
compared  to  those  of  automobiles,  fur- 
niture, newspapers,  and  haircuts — to 
name  only  a  few  goods  and  services 
important  to  us.  This  is  largely  due  to 
the  limited  control  over  supplies  of 
farm  products  and  the  demand  for 
food  which  is  exceptionally  stable. 
Most  farmers  produce  as  much  as  they 
can  since  the  amount  produced  by  any 
one  seldom  affects  the  market  price. 
Hence,  there  is  a  tendency  to  over-  or 
under-produce  and,  as  a  result,  for 
farm  prices  to  fluctuate.  When  food 
supplies  are  plentiful,  farm  prices  may 
be  relatively  low.  The  reverse  is  true 
when  foods  are  in  short  supply. 

On  the  average,  farmers  receive  less 
than  half  of  what  we  pay  for  food.  In 

58 


recent  years,  they  have  received  about 
39  cents  of  each  dollar  we  spent  at  the 
grocery  for  farm  foods.  A  farmer  re- 
ceives such  a  small  part  of  the  retail 
price  of  some  foods  that,  even  if  he 
gave  them  away,  the  price  at  retail 
would  be  reduced  by  less  than  a  fifth. 
For  example,  in  1968  the  average  price 
of  a  1 -pound  loaf  of  white  bread  at  the 
supermarket  was  22.4  cents.  Only  2.6 
cents  of  this  went  to  the  farmer  for  the 
wheat  used  in  the  loaf.  Thus,  if  he  had 
been  paid  nothing  for  his  wheat,  the 
bread  would  still  have  cost  19.8  cents. 

Farmers  also  receive  only  a  small 
part  of  the  retail  price  of  such  foods 
as  cookies,  corn  flakes,  canned  peach- 
es, and  frozen  french-fried  potatoes. 
Changes  in  farm  prices  of  these  items 
have  litde  effect  on  retail  prices.  On 
the  other  hand,  farmers  receive  more 
than  half  the  prices  we  pay  for  such 
major  items  as  meat,  eggs,  and  butter. 
Moderate  changes  in  the  supplies  and 
farm  prices  of  these  products  will  affect 
retail  prices  more.  The  difference  in 
what  a  farmer  receives  from  our  food 
dollar  is  largely  a  matter  of  how  much 
processing  and  packaging  is  necessary 
before  his  product  reaches  the  grocery 
store. 

Farmers  have  not  been  making  large 
profits.  Although  their  incomes  have 
been  improving,  they  still  lag  behind 
those  of  most  other  workers.  In  addi- 
tion, incomes  are  not  evenly  distrib- 
uted among  farmers.  This  distribution 
differs  greatly  from  one  area  to  another, 
one  year  to  the  next,  and  one  kind  of 
farm  to  another. 

Foods  go  in  many  directions  after 
they  leave  the  farm  and  pass  through 
many  hands  before  they  reach  our 
grocery  shelves.  The  task  of  getting 
food  to  us  in  the  right  form,  at  the 
right  time  and  the  right  place  is  the 
function  of  the  food  marketing  system. 
Doing  these  jobs  for  us  takes  the  re- 
maining 61  cents  of  each  dollar  we 
spend  at  the  grocery.  The  businesses 
that  do  all  this  work  number  in  the 
thousands  and  include  grain  elevators, 
milk  processing  and  botding  plants, 
fruit  and  vegetable  canning  factories, 
bakeries,  and  retail  food  stores. 


What  happens  to  products  after 
they  leave  the  farm  determines,  to  a 
large  extent,  the  appearance,  variety, 
and  quality  of  the  foods  we  buy  and 
the  prices  we  pay.  Without  the  market- 
ing system,  our  steaks  would  be  stand- 
ing in  a  feedlot  in  Iowa,  our  cheese  and 
butter  would  be  milk  on  a  dairy  farm 
in  Wisconsin,  while  our  orange  juice 
would  still  be  on  the  tree  in  Florida  or 
California. 

Of  course,  as  is  true  for  other  things 
we  buy,  we  must  pay  for  the  services 
provided  by  the  marketing  system, 
and  the  cost  of  these  has  been  increas- 
ing. During  the  past  10  years,  the  cost 
of  an  hour  of  labor  used  by  processors, 
wholesalers,  and  retailers  has  gone  up 
almost  50  percent.  And  because  labor 


Preparing  frozen  turkey  dinners  at  Minnesota 
processing  plant. 


is  usually  the  largest  item  of  cost, 
increases  in  labor  cost  have  had  a 
significant  effect  on  retail  food  prices. 
The  sharp  rise  in  food  prices  since 
1964  has  been  caused,  in  part,  by 
labor  costs  that  have  risen  at  a  faster 
rate  recently  than  during  the  previous 
years. 

The  marketing  system  has  been  able 
to  offset  part  of  the  increase  in  the 
cost  of  labor  by  adopting  new  methods 
and  equipment,  by  improving  skills 
of  workers  and  management,  and  by 
combining  or  eliminating  small,  ineffi- 
cient units.  As  a  result,  instead  of 
increasing  by  50  percent,  the  cost  of 
labor  per  unit  produced  has  gone  up 
only  18  percent 

Another  measure  of  increased  effi- 
ciency is  that,  while  the  amount  of 
food  being  marketed  has  increased  21 
percent  during  the  past  10  years,  only 
6  percent  more  persons  have  been 
needed  to  do  the  job.  And  the  number 
of  hours  worked  per  week  per  person 
has  actually  declined.  So,  while  hourly 
labor  costs  have  been  rising,  the 
marketing  system  has  been  able  to 
minimize  the  effect  of  the  higher  labor 
costs  on  the  prices  we  pay  for  our  food. 
If  this  hadn't  been  done,  our  food 
would  have  cost  much  more. 

During  the  past  decade,  other  mar- 
keting costs  have  gone  up,  too.  Items 
like  rent,  insurance,  maintenance,  and 
telephone  services  have  increased  by 
nearly  a  third.  The  cost  of  new  plants 
and  equipment  are  1 7  percent  higher, 
and  prices  of  food  containers,  packag- 
ing materials,  and  electricity  have 
gone  up  8  percent. 

Over  the  years,  profits  of  the  food 
marketing  industry  have  been  lower 
than  those  of  many  other  industries. 
Profits,  before  taxes,  now  take  only 
3.6  cents  of  each  dollar  we  spend  for 
food — about  the  same  as  a  decade  ago. 
Though  some  marketing  firms  have 
been  more  profitable  than  others, 
higher  industry  profits  have  not  been 
the  major  reason  for  rising  food  prices. 

During  the  past  10  years,  profits  of 
leading  retail  chains  have  been  de- 
clining. While  increased  sales  have 
brought  in  more  dollars,  the  returns 

59 


on  their  investments  (after  taxes)  have 
dropped  to  around  10  percent  or  about 
two-thirds  of  what  they  were  a  decade 
ago.  To  put  this  another  way,  profits 
now  amount  to  approximately  1  penny 
of  each  dollar  spent  at  the  grocery. 
So  eliminating  the  retailer's  profit 
entirely  would  not  appreciably  lower 
food  prices. 

As  in  other  businesses,  food  firms 
must  make  a  profit,  at  least  over  the 
long  run.  Profits  are  quite  variable, 
and  at  times  may  seem  excessive. 
Whether  they  are  too  high  or  too  low 
is  impossible  to  judge  without  knowing 
all  the  facts. 

Profits  may  be  thought  of  as  an 
investment  in  the  future,  for  they  are 
necessary  to  stimulate  investment  in 
more  efficient  facilities  and  for  re- 
search on  new  and  improved  products. 
With  no  extra  funds  to  use  in  this 
manner,  it  would  be  difficult  for  our 
food  industry  to  keep  pace  with  other 
industries  in  a  rapidly  changing  age. 

For  the  most  part,  the  functions  of 
marketing — processing,  transporting, 
wholesaling,  and  retailing — are  essen- 
tial to  our  urban-oriented  society  where 
most  of  us  have  little  or  no  contact 
with  agriculture.  Since  World  War  II, 
our  food  industry  has  established  a 
good  record  of  efficiency.  And  it  has 
provided  us  with  a  steadily  increasing 
variety  of  wholesome,  nutritious,  and 
appetizing  foods  at  a  reasonable  cost 
while  adjusting  to  our  ever  changing 
demands. 

During  recent  years,  we  have  also 
shifted  many  of  our  food  preparation 
tasks  to  the  marketing  system.  Because 
of  the  cost  of  developing  these  more 
highly  processed  foods,  large  sums  of 
money  have  been  spent  to  advertise 
and  promote  individual  brands.  Over- 
all, however,  such  costs  must  be  viewed 
in  the  light  of  our  competitive  econ- 
omy. One  company  may  be  able  to 
increase  sales  and  profits  by  using 
advertising  to  differentiate  its  prod- 
ucts from  those  of  another.  This  tends 
to  make  companies  strive  to  improve 
their  products,  so  they  can  remain 
competitive.  We,  as  consumers,  benefit 
from  advertising  to   the   extent   that 

60 


competition  results  in  the  development 
of  new  and  better  products  and  a  more 
stable  mass  market.  Advertising  may 
also  provide  information  about  new 
products  that  are  available. 

We  have  seen  that  to  farmers  and 
to  those  who  process,  transport,  and 
market  our  food,  prices  represent  what 
they  will  receive  for  their  work.  To  the 
rest  of  us,  the  price  on  the  package 
indicates  what  we  may  have  to  pay 
out.  This  is  probably  the  main  differ- 
ence in  our  approaches  to  food  prices. 

Undoubtedly,  most  of  us  think  we 
know  prices.  But  do  we,  or  can  we, 
know  them  as  well  as  we  think  we  do? 
Do  we  know  enough  about  the  be- 
havior of  prices  to  make  good  judg- 
ments about  their  current  levels?  How 
do  we  decide  when  prices  are  reason- 
able or  too  high?  What  are  some  of 
the  factors  that  influence  our  knowl- 
edge of  food  prices  and  our  attitudes 
toward  them? 

Most  of  us  as  family  shoppers  buy 
around  30  to  40  items  a  week  of  the 
many  thousands  stocked  in  a  modern 
supermarket.  But  some  of  these  items 
change  from  week  to  week,  so — in 
reality — we  buy  many  more  kinds  over 
a  period  of  a  month  or  so.  We  may  be 
able  to  remember  the  last  price  we 
paid  for  a  few  of  these — the  ones  we 
buy  regularly — but  it's  doubtful  that 
we  can  do  so  for  every  item  purchased. 
Added  to  this  is  the  effect  of  normal 
fluctuations  in  prices.  Because  of  the 
seasonal  nature  of  production,  prices 
of  foods  like  pork,  eggs,  and  fresh 
fruits  and  vegetables  change  more  often 
than  many  others.  Then  there  are  the 
promotional  changes  in  prices — the 
"specials,"  and  "cents  off."  Through 
all  this,  we  seem  to  have  a  better 
memory  for  prices  that  go  up  than  we 
do  for  those  that  go  down.  And,  though 
food  prices  have  been  trending  upward, 
those  of  some  important  foods  have 
declined.  Such  items  as  frying  chick- 
ens, eggs,  frozen  orange  juice  concen- 
trate, and  ice  cream  cost  less  today 
than  a  decade  ago. 

Prices  are  responsive  to  changes  in 
supplies.  When  supplies  of  food  are 
scarce,  we  have  to  pay  higher  prices 


While  prices  were  generally  up,  frozen  orange  juice  con- 
centrate and  eggs  cost  less  in  1968  than  decade  ago. 
Eggs,  left,  are  pictured  on  automatic  egg-weighing 
machine. 


— or  change  to  another  product.  At 
times,  even  small  changes  in  supplies 
caused  by  bad  weather  can  have  a 
noticeable  impact  on  prices.  On  the 
other  hand,  when  supplies  are  plenti- 
ful, prices  usually  go  down  because  we 
only  want  so  much  food. 

Discussions  of  prices  frequenUy  cen- 
ter on  convenience  foods.  Here,  again, 
reactions  differ.  Because  of  the  value 
one  homemaker  places  on  her  time, 
she  may  consider  partially  prepared  or 
ready-to-serve  foods  reasonably  priced. 
Another  homemaker  may  think  they 
are  too  expensive.  Yet,  studies  have 
shown  that,  when  a  reasonable  value 
is  placed  upon  a  homemaker's  time, 
many  of  these  foods  are  no  more  ex- 
pensive than  the  same  item  prepared 
at  home  from  basic  ingredients,  and 
some  are  less  expensive. 

The  store  where  we  buy  can  affect 
our  ideas  about  food  prices.  Because 
small  neighborhood  groceries  have  too 
few  customers  and  can't  buy  in  large 
enough  quantities  for  efficient  use  of 
labor  and  facilities,  they  will  usually 
charge  higher  prices  than  supermar- 
kets. Prices  also  vary  among  large 
supermarkets.  Higher  prices  in  one 
may  be  justified  by  differences  in  the 
kind  and  quality  of  products  stocked 
and  the  customer  services  offered — 
like  check  cashing,  carryout  services, 
shopping  hours. 

The  continually  changing  character 
of  our  grocery  stores — the  ever  chang- 
ing array  of  new  foods  and  more  and 


more  nonfood  items — makes  it  hard 
for  us  to  be  precise  in  our  knowledge 
of  many  prices. 

Saying  prices  are  high  indicates  a 
comparison,  and  usually  this  is  in 
relation  to  what  we  have  to  buy  with. 
Being  human,  we  tend  to  think  of  all 
the  things  we  want — and  these  may 
add  up  to  many  more  things  than  we 
could  purchase  with  our  take-home 
pay  even  if  all  prices  stayed  the  same. 

One  way  to  make  this  comparison  is 
to  look  at  the  quantity  of  individual 
foods  which  can  be  purchased  with  an 
hour's  pay: 


Amount  of  Selected   Foods  the  Average  Hourly 

Earnings  of  Factory  Workers  Would  Buy 

Item                      Unit      1948  1958  1968 

Round  steak lb.      1.5  2.0       2.6 

Pork  chops lb.      1.7  2.3        2.9 

Bacon,  sliced lb.      1.7  2.7       3.7 

Bread,  white lb.      9.6  10.9  13.4 

Butter lb.      1.5  2.8       3.6 

Margarine lb.      3.2  7.2  10.8 

Eggs doz.      1.8       3.5        5.7 


Of  course,  prices  will  always  be 
important  to  us.  What  we  have  tried 
to  do  is  to  present  a  few  facts  about 
what  can  happen  to  food  prices  and 
why.  Clearly,  the  increase  in  food 
prices  in  recent  years  has  been  caused, 
to  a  large  extent,  by  higher  production 
and  marketing  costs.  At  the  same  time, 
we  are  buying  more  expensive  and 
higher  quality  foods.  Compared  to  our 
incomes  and  to  prices  of  many  other 
things,  food  is  still  a  good  buy  for 
most  of  us  Americans. 


61 


Eileen  F.  Taylor 

100  Million 
Times  a  Day, 
Americans 
Eat  Out 


More  than  100  million  times  in  each 
day,  someone  has  a  meal  or  snack  in  a 
fancy  restaurant,  a  college  cafeteria,  a 
snackbar,  or  a  hospital.  If  we  picked 
up  the  check  for  all  the  meals  and 
snacks  we  Americans  eat  away  from 
home  in  a  year,  it  would  amount  to  a 
whopping  $22  billion. 

Sounds  impressive?  Well,  it  is — and 
it's  getting  more  so  every  year.  We 
like  to  eat  out,  and  just  about  everyone 
does  so  at  one  time  or  another.  At 
least  once  a  month,  about  100  million 
of  us  have  dinner  at  a  restaurant;  66 
million  go  out  for  breakfast  and  twice 
this  number  eat  lunch  away  from  the 
home. 

Among  us,  however,  "who"  eats  out 
and  "when"  varies  considerably.  Dur- 
ing the  day,  working  people  represent 
the  largest  share  of  customers,  but  in 
the  evening,  students  are  important, 
especially  at  the  informal  eating  places 
like  drive-ins. 

Men  alone  or  in  groups  make  up 
the  bulk  of  customers  during  breakfast 
and  lunch  hours.  At  dinnertime,  fam- 
ily groups  take  over.  Later  in  the 
evening,  couples  predominate. 

We  Americans  like  to  take  the  whole 
family  out — to  give  mother  a  break 

62 


once  in  a  while.  Our  children  go  along 
about  half  the  time.  Those  between 
the  ages  of  6  and  12  are  included  most 
often.  As  most  parents  would  guess, 
the  younger  ones  are  at  home  with  a 
babysitter.  Teenagers  tend  to  want  to 
go  on  their  own. 

Overall,  the  postwar  "baby  boom" 
has  provided  millions  of  new  custom- 
ers for  the  restaurant  industry.  In  fact, 
total  spending  for  food  away  from 
home  has  gone  up  at  a  faster  rate  than 
population.  And  restaurants  catering 
to  the  under-35  groups  have  been 
growing  even  faster  than  the  food 
service  industry  as  a  whole. 

"Where"  we  eat  varies  considerably. 
However,  basically  it  is  at  one  of  two 
types  of  places — at  an  institution  like 
a  hospital,  college,  or  camp  or  at  some 
kind  of  public  eating  place — a  restau- 
rant, cafeteria,  snackbar,  drive-in,  and 
the  like. 

Although  institutions  represent  a 
small  share  of  all  eating  places,  they 
are  important  in  the  number  of  people 
they  serve.  For  example,  the  average 
college  serves  10  times  as  many  meals 
and  snacks  each  day  as  the  average 
public  eating  place. 

But  the  typical  American  looking  for 
a  place  to  have  lunch  or  one  to  take 
his  family  to  for  dinner  isn't  concerned 
about  the  meals  being  served  in  insti- 
tutions. He  will  choose  one  of  the 
344,000  public  eating  places.  It  could 
be  a  spot  to  get  a  sandwich  in  a  hurry, 
to  take  home  a  bucket  of  fried  chicken, 
to  stand  in  a  cafeteria  line  for  lunch, 
or  to  enjoy  a  leisurely  dinner  in  a 
softly  lighted  dining  room. 

The  family  going  out  for  dinner  is 
apt  to  go  to  a  restaurant  located  near 
home.  They  shouldn't  have  a  difficult 
time  finding  one  open  because  the 
average  restaurant  operates  more  than 
13  hours  a  day,  6%  days  a  week, 
throughout  the  year.  This  restaurant 
is  likely  to  have  tables  or  booths,  and 
possibly  counter  and  carry-out  service 
as  well.  Usually  the  menu  will  offer  a 


Eileen  F.  Taylor  is  a  Food  Economist  in  the 
Office  of  the  Director,  Marketing  Economics  Divi- 
sion, Economic  Research  Service. 


variety  of  American  plate  meals  rather 
than  a  particular  food  like  seafood  or 
oriental  dishes. 

But  many  kinds  of  eating  places 
make  up  this  average.  For  example, 
drive-in  service  is  much  more  impor- 
tant in  suburbs  and  rural  areas  than 
in  central  business  districts.  Counter 
service  is  more  important  in  these 
areas.  In  small  eating  places — those 
with  yearly  sales  of  less  than  $20,000 — 
sandwiches  and  refreshments  are  the 
most  important  specialty;  those  that 
specialize  in  seafoods,  chops,  steaks, 
and  roast  beef  are  likely  to  have  sales 
of  $100,000  or  more. 

Although  most  eating  places  are  still 
independendy  owned,  chain  opera- 
tions are  growing  in  importance.  A 
major  reason  for  this  is  customer  rec- 
ognition. As  we  get  accustomed  to  the 
style,  the  food,  and  the  service  associ- 
ated with  a  certain  name,  we  quickly 
recognize  these  wherever  they  are  lo- 
cated— in  our  city  or  far  from  home. 
The  golden  arches  and  the  orange  roof 
have  become  landmarks  because  they 
are  easy  to  recognize. 

There  are  other  reasons,  too — chains 
have  the  necessary  staff  and  resources 
to  do  research  and  invest  in  market 
studies.  They  have  the  experience  and 
the  talent  to  open  a  new  eating  place 
and  make  a  success  of  it.  Some  chains 
have  taken  advantage  of  the  rapid 
growth  in  the  suburbs  and  specialized 
in  drive-ins  that  appeal  to  young  fam- 
ilies.  Some  have  diversified   into  the 


institutional  field.  Some  offer  prepared 
food  for  the  customers  to  take  home; 
others  have  developed  their  own  brand 
of  frozen  foods  so  that  their  name  is 
seen  in  grocery  stores  as  well. 

Urban  living,  working  far  from  the 
home,  increased  travel  around  the 
country  and  the  world,  and  even  tele- 
vision have  helped  to  make  our  tastes 
more  diverse.  Our  away-from-home 
eating  places  tempt  us  by  featuring 
everything  from  a  full  course  steak 
dinner  to  shrimp  Creole  to  chow  mein 
to  a  20-cent  hamburger.  Though  the 
largest  share  of  eating  places  feature 
American-type  meals,  or  sandwiches 
and  refreshments,  some  specialize  in 
Italian  or  oriental  foods,  roast  beef, 
seafood,  chicken,  and  steaks. 

And  our  tastes  are  somewhat  fickle. 
We  always  seem  to  be  searching  for 
something  new  or  different.  Last  year's 
standbys — beef  stew,  creamed  dishes, 
hash,  and  liver — appear  to  be  "out" 
these  days.  Main  dish  salads,  barbe- 
cued foods,  pizzas,  feature  sandwiches, 
and  diet  specials  are  "in."  So  are  a  la 
carte  menus,  and  especially  those  that 
include  extravagant  desserts. 

The  owner  of  a  restaurant  has  to  be 
constantly  on  the  alert  for  changes  in 
the  kinds  of  food  that  will  please  his 
customers.  A  look  at  what's  popular 
with  the  school  lunch  crowd — pizza, 
barbecued  beef,  or  hamburgers — helps 
to  guide  the  menu  planner  aiming  at 
family  groups.  Even  sales  by  his  com- 
petitor— the    grocer — can    help.    For 


A  family  dining  out. 


63 


example,  young  marrieds  with  small 
children  may  not  have  much  extra 
money.  But  they  remember  how  they 
ate  at  home  before  they  were  married. 
Gourmet  foods  and  sauces  appeal  to 
them,  and  they  tend  to  choose  these 
when  they  get  a  chance  to  eat  out 
Small  town  residents  who  do  lots  of 
baking  at  home  may  be  intrigued  by 
the  eating  place  that  features  "home- 
style  pastries." 

The  widespread  popularity  of  cer- 
tain foods  has  led  to  the  growth  of 
eating  places  featuring  limited  menus. 
Some  drive-ins  offer  only  one  type  of 
sandwich  and  a  choice  of  beverages. 

In  some  chain  organizations,  the 
technique  of  preparation  and  service 
has  become  such  an  exact  science  that 
we  can  expect  a  roast  beef  sandwich 
or  hamburger  we  buy  in  Denver  to 
taste  the  same  as  the  ones  back  home 
in  Baltimore.  The  menu,  the  surround- 
ings, and  the  advertising  too  are  all 
designed  to  attract  those  who  want 
quick,  informal,  and  inexpensive  food 
served  in  a  familiar  atmosphere. 

But  what  may  be  even  more  inter- 
esting than  the  menu  in  your  favorite 
eating  place  is  how  the  cook  prepares 
your  meal.  New  food  processing  tech- 
niques and  high  cost  of  labor  have 
combined  to  make  partially  and  fully 
prepared  foods  very  attractive  to 
restaurant  owners.  It  is  quite  possible 
that  the  delicious  looking  beef  stroga- 
noff  you  are  eating  in  California  today 
was  prepared  and  frozen  in  Connecti- 
cut weeks  before,  and  possibly  even 
months  ago.  When  a  waitress  takes 
your  order,  the  cook  gets  the  entree 
from  the  freezer,  puts  it  in  a  micro- 
wave oven,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve  in 
seconds.  If  chicken  salad  is  on  the 
menu,  the  cook  will  open  a  can  of 
dehydrated  salad  mix,  add  water,  and 
chill.  If  you'd  like  an  egg  salad,  he 
might  open  a  bag  of  frozen  diced  eggs 
and  use  these  in  his  favorite  recipe. 

Some  restaurants  have  achieved  what 
might  seem  to  be  the  impossible — vir- 
tually no  kitchen  at  all !  With  specially 
selected  menu  offerings,  one  employee 
can  take  frozen  food  from  storage,  heat 
it  in  a  microwave  oven,  and  seconds 

64 


later,  serve  it  Jo  the  customer.  This 
means  that  more  space  can  be  devoted 
to  selling  instead  of  being  used  for 
oversized  preparation  areas. 

Many  factors  have  combined  to 
foster  more  eating  away  from  home — 
to  build  an  industry  that,  in  a  few 
years,  may  be  serving  us  half  our  food. 
Important  among  these  are  the  level 
of  our  incomes  and  where  we  live.  Of 
these,  our  income  is  probably  the  most 
important.  The  more  dollars  we  make, 
the  more  we  spend  for  food  away  from 
our  homes. 

Studies  have  shown  that  the  families 
with  incomes  of  $10,000  and  over  a 
year  spent  more  than  25  percent  of 
their  food  money  for  meals  away  from 
home;  those  with  less  than  $3,000 
spent  10  percent.  In  actual  dollars, 
the  higher  income  families  spent  10 
times  as  much  each  week  eating  out 
as  those  in  the  low-income  group. 

When  the  wife  works — as  more  than 
a  third  do  now — the  family  is  likely  to 
eat  out  more  often  and  to  spend  more 
doing  so  than  a  family  having  the  same 
level  of  income  with  the  wife  not  em- 
ployed outside  the  home. 

On  the  average,  we  spend  about  5 
percent  of  our  household  budgets  for 
food  away  from  home.  There  is  some 
variation  in  this  depending  on  where 
we  live,  however.  Families  in  the  West 
spent  the  most  dollars.  Families  in  the 
Northeast  were  the  second  biggest 
spenders,  followed  by  families  in  the 
North  Central  States.  Families  in  the 
South  spent  the  fewest  dollars,  but  in 
the  last  decade  they  have  been  in- 
creasing what  they  spend  to  eat  out 
much  more  than  families  in  other  parts 
of  the  country.  If  we  live  in  the  city, 
rather  than  on  the  farm,  we  probably 
will  spend  more  on  eating  out.  But 
these  differences,  like  those  between 
the  various  regions,  are  becoming  less 
pronounced. 

This  is  our  food  service  industry 
today.  What  will  it  be  like  in  the 
years  ahead? 

To  begin  with,  there  will  be  more 
restaurants  as  the  population  increases 
and  our  take-home  pay  gets  bigger. 
Today,  there  are  more  than  200  million 


Americans.  By  1975,  there  will  be  25 
million  more  of  us,  and  10  million 
more  households.  Younger  families — 
those  that  are  on  the  move  and  likely 
to  eat  out — will  make  up  an  even 
larger  share  of  our  population  than 
they  do  now.  Today,  our  median  fam- 
ily income  is  a  little  more  than  $8,000. 
A  third  of  our  families  earn  more  than 
$10,000.  And  it  is  predicted  that  by 
1975  more  than  two-fifths  of  us  will 
have  incomes  over  $10,000.  Unless  the 
cost  of  eating  away  from  home  goes  up 
more  rapidly  than  incomes,  we'll  have 
more  people  with  more  money  to  dine 
out  more  often. 

More  married  women  will  be  work- 
ing away  from  home,  so  restaurants 
will  be  geared  to  demands  of  the 
working  wife.  Perhaps  we'll  see  sub- 
stantial growth  of  restaurants  in  the 
suburbs,  because  this  is  where  many 
working  wives  live.  New  restaurants 
will  be  designed  for  evening  dining 
out  for  the  whole  family,  at  a  place 
close  to  home.  In  addition,  many  of 
us  like  to  use  dining  out  as  an  occasion 
to  entertain  friends — especially  those 
of  us  who  live  in  apartments  with 
limited  space.  Some  experts  are  sug- 
gesting the  possibility  of  a  modified 
American  plan — a  system  of  special 
pricing  for  five  dinners  a  month  eaten 
in  the  same  restaurant,  with  the  same 
couple  as  hosts  and  different  guests  for 
each  dinner. 

Our  tastes  will  become  more  and 
more  discriminating,  so  eating  places 
will  have  to  meet  those  ever  higher 
standards  of  excellence  that  we  expect. 

Except  for  luxury-type  and  spe- 
cialty restaurants  which  feature  fine 
cuisine,  chains  and  franchised  opera- 
tions will  continue  to  grow  rapidly. 
We'll  be  able  to  identify  even  more 
establishments    and    types    of   eating 


places  as  we  travel  across  the  country. 

Growth  of  the  chains  and  the  con- 
tinuing importance  of  independently 
owned  eating  places  mean  that  more 
and  more  people  will  be  needed  to 
work  in  and  manage  food  service  units. 
More  than  150,000  openings  a  year 
are  expected  in  the  restaurant  industry 
throughout  the  1970's.  Some  of  these 
will  be  new  jobs  as  the  industry  grows, 
but  most  will  be  due  to  turnover. 
Even  all  of  the  new  equipment  and 
ready-to-serve  foods  won't  ease  the 
industry's  need  for  good  talent. 

Restaurant  kitchens  will  be  smaller — 
some  may  even  be  virtually  elimi- 
nated. Kitchen  work  will  be  cut  down, 
but  capable  personnel  to  do  the  final 
preparation  and  serving  of  food  will 
still  be  in  demand.  Opportunities  for 
skilled  chefs  and  restaurant  managers 
will  be  expecially  favorable.  For  the 
restaurant  industry  of  the  future  will 
service  an  even  more  sophisticated 
market  and  will  need  highly  trained 
management  people. 

Finally  we,  the  customers,  will  be 
eating  out  more  and  more.  Retail 
grocery  stores  are  already  feeling  the 
impact  of  the  increased  away-from- 
home  spending  and  are  trying  to  cope 
with  this  new  competitor  by  offering 
such  services  as  a  delicatessen,  ready- 
to-eat  barbecued  chickens  and  an  ex- 
panded frozen  food  department  that 
includes  family  size  entrees. 

As  long  as  the  present  trends  last, 
we  will  continue  to  spend  our  extra 
dollars  for  service — and  one  of  the 
services  we  like  the  most  is  having 
someone  else  do  our  food  preparation 
and  cleaning  up  for  us.  The  organiza- 
tion that  provides  that  service  best — 
restaurants,  drive-ins,  vending  ma- 
chines, or  even  grocery  stores — will 
prosper  in  the  1970's. 


65 


M.  L.  Upchurch 


Farm  Programs: 
Their  Rote  in 
Assuring  Our 
Food  Supply 


We  Americans  are  lucky  to  be  able 
to  walk  into  a  well-stocked  super- 
market at  almost  any  time  and  choose 
our  food  from  the  wide  variety  offered. 
But  fortunate  as  we  are,  we  still  need 
a  farming  industry  that  will  assure  us 
of  plentiful  supplies  in  the  future. 

Modern  farming  requires  heavy 
investments  of  capital,  along  with 
heavy  expenditures  for  seed,  fertilizers, 
machinery,  and  fuel.  The  prices  farm- 
ers get  for  what  they  plant  or  raise 
must  cover  all  these  costs  and  leave 
enough  extra  to  pay  for  their  efforts. 
If  they  can't  cover  these  costs,  farming 
as  a  business  is  in  trouble,  and  our 
food  supply  is  in  jeopardy. 

Like  many  other  businesses  today, 
farming  has  experienced  vast  changes. 
Most  farms  of  the  past  were  highly 
self-sufficient.  They  provided  a  way  of 
life  and  some  cash  money  to  buy 
necessities.  Modern  farms  are  com- 
mercial businesses.  During  this  change, 
farmers  have  often  been  perplexed; 
and  many  have  been  forced  to  leave 
their  farms  to  seek  other  ways  to  earn 
a  living. 

Most  of  the  change  in  farming  has 
been  brought  about  through  improved 
machines,    seeds,    feeds,    and    fertil- 

66 


izers — by  the  so-called  technological 
revolution.  Machinery  now  does  much 
of  the  work  formerly  done  by  men  and 
work  animals.  Better  seeds  and  new 
fertilizers  have  increased  the  amount 
produced  per  acre. 

Modern  farmers  have  the  capacity 
to  operate  larger  farms.  Their  desire 
to  increase  incomes  encourages  larger 
operations,  and  larger  farms  are  re- 
quired to  use  the  new  developments 
efficiently.  As  a  result  of  these  changes, 
about  a  third  of  the  farms  now  produce 
four-fifths  of  our  food.  The  other 
two-thirds — the  small  farms — seldom 
produce  enough  to  provide  sufficient 
income  for  even  a  minimum  level  of 
living.  As  a  rule,  these  farmers  supple- 
ment their  income  with  off-farm  jobs. 

Farmers,  as  primary  producers,  face 
problems  unlike  those  of  most  other 
businesses.  A  manufacturer  can  con- 
trol his  production  to  approximate 
demands.  He  can  slow  or  step  up  his 
output  in  response  to  sales.  So  far, 
however,  farmers  have  had  difficulty 
balancing  supplies  of  their  products 
with  demand  well  enough  to  prevent 
violent  ups  and  downs  in  prices  and 
farm  incomes.  The  individual  farmer 
cannot  improve  his  income  by  not 
producing,  by  letting  his  land  remain 
idle.  Moreover,  the  size  of  his  crops 
are  subject  to  the  whims  of  nature. 
He  can  have  a  bumper  crop,  or  a 
hailstorm  can  flatten  his  wheat  just 
before  harvest. 

Because  of  our  needs  for  ample 
supplies  of  food  for  our  ever  increasing 
population,  the  farmer's  plight  must 
be  our  concern.  For  this  reason,  if  for 
no  other,  various  programs  have  been 
devised  in  an  attempt  to  help  farmers 
meet  problems  of  erratic  supplies  and 
dislocations  brought  on  by  technical 
improvements.  A  look  at  some  past 
problems  may  provide  an  insight  into 
the  rationale  behind  programs  which 
have  been  devised  to  help  the  farmers 
and,  at  the  same  time,  provide  us  with 
an  adequate  and  continuing  supply  of 
foodstuffs. 


M.  L.  Upchurch  is  Administrator,  Economic 
Research  Service. 


For  a  few  years  prior  to  World  War 
I,  farmers  were  relatively  well  off. 
Then,  following  that  war,  prices  of 
farm  products  dropped  sharply  while 
those  of  other  products  stayed  about 
the  same  or  went  up. 

At  the  time,  some  people  regarded 
this  change  as  a  normal  readjustment 
from  pre-World  War  I  levels.  Others 
disagreed.  One  way  suggested  to  show 
the  relative  well-being  of  farmers  was 
by  the  use  of  a  so-called  "parity  ratio." 
Parity  was  denned  as  the  relationship 
between  the  prices  received  and  prices 
paid  by  farmers  during  the  period 
1909-1914.  In  general  then,  a  parity 
ratio  of  100  would  mean  that  farmers 
were  or  are  as  well  off  at  a  particular 
time  as  in  this  pre-World  War  I  period. 

Congress,  too,  was  concerned  about 
the  plight  of  farmers  and  twice  passed 
the  McNary-Haugen  bills  which  were 
twice  vetoed  by  the  President.  Then, 
in  the  late  1920's,  the  Federal  Farm 
Board  was  created  to  give  farmers  re- 
lief from  low  prices,  but  it  was  "too 
litde"  and  almost  "too  late"  to  help 
out  very  much. 

The  advent  of  the  Great  Depression 
demanded  action  for  relief  of  farmers. 
The  days  of".  .  .  ten-cent  cotton  and 
forty-cent  meat  ..."  had  become 
"five-cent  cotton  and  twenty-cent 
meat."  Farmers  were  burning  corn  for 
fuel  instead  of  coal,  as  there  was  no 
market  for  their  corn  and  no  money 
with  which  to  buy  coal.  Many  lost 
their  farms  because  they  couldn't  pay 
their  debts.  It  was  during  this  period 
that  Congress  enacted  the  Agricultural 
Adjustment  Act,  commonly  called  the 
AAA,  as  one  of  a  broad  range  of 
tools  to  fight  the  nationwide  economic 
depression. 

This  early  AAA  program  called  on 
farmers  to  reduce  production  of  basic 
commodities  in  return  for  price  sup- 
ports guaranteed  by  the  Government. 
Variations  on  this  theme  have  been  the 
core  of  farm  legislation  and  programs 
ever  since.  In  addition,  prices  of  com- 
modities other  than  the  basic  grains, 
cotton,  and  tobacco  have  been  sup- 
ported, when  necessary,  by  direct  pur- 
chases in  the  market.  Some  of  these 


purchases  have  been  financed  by  a 
portion  of  the  import  duties  which 
legislation  has  decreed  to  be  used  for 
this  purpose.  In  recent  years,  produc- 
ers of  feed  grains  and  wheat  have  been 
offered  the  opportunity  to  reduce  their 
production  below  the  former  levels  in 
return  for  price  support  loans  and 
direct  supplements  to  their  income. 

These  arrangements  and  other  vari- 
ations have  been  used  to  try  to  restrict 
production  of  major  crops  and  to 
increase  incomes  of  farmers.  They  have 
been  necessary  because  of  the  chronic 
tendency  of  farmers  to  produce  more 
than  our  markets  will  take  at  satis- 
factory prices. 

You  might  ask,  "Why  don't  farmers 
reduce  their  output  without  Govern- 
ment programs  (f  prices  and  incomes 
can  be  improved  by  restricted  produc- 
tion?" The  answer  is  that  with  3 
million  farms,  the  influence  of  any  one 
farmer  on  production  and  price  is 
negligible.  No  individual  farmer  can 
reduce  the  amount  he  produces  and 
gain  by  increased  prices  unless  all  the 
farmers  go  along  with  him. 

Again,  we  might  ask,  "What  would 
happen  if  we  did  not  have  such  pro- 
grams?" As  an  example,  let's  examine 
what  could  have  happened  during  the 
past  decade  if  we  hadn't  had  these 
programs. 

A  decade  ago  stocks  of  major  farm 
products  held  by  the  Government  were 
excessively  large.  It  was  evident  that 
changes  in  programs  were  needed  to 
bring  about  a  better  balance  between 
supplies  and  demands.  As  a  result, 
during  recent  years,  farm  programs 
have  included  price  supports,  acreage 
diversion  policies  (which  affect  both 
supply  and  income),  and  promotional 
programs  designed  to  stimulate  do- 
mestic and  foreign  demand.  Export 
subsidies  were  also  used  in  the  early 
1960's,  but  more  recendy  these  have 
been  reduced  or  dropped. 

Records  were  kept  of  the  volume  of 
production,  prices,  and  incomes  that 
occurred  under  these  circumstances, 
and  studies  have  been  made  to  ascer- 
tain what  would  have  happened  dur- 
ing  this   period   without   die   various 

67 


programs.  As  a  basis  for  these  analyses, 
we  assumed  a  balance  between  pro- 
duction and  demand  for  farm  products. 
Besides,  we  assumed  that  land  held  in 
the  Conservation  Reserve  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  1960's  would  gradually 
return  to  production. 

According  to  these  studies,  without 
the  programs  the  production  of  farm 
commodities  would  have  increased 
and  prices  would  have  gone  down. 
Lower  prices  would  have  boosted 
domestic  consumption  and  exports. 
Lower  feed  prices  would  have  boosted 
livestock  production  which,  in  turn, 
would  have  lowered  prices  of  live- 
stock. We  would  have  had  more  land 
in  wheat,  feed  grains,  and  cotton  than 
we  actually  had.  Prices  of  such  crops 
as  soybeans,  rice,  and  tobacco  would 
have  been  much  lower  than  they 
actually  were. 

There  has  long  been  concern  about 
our  farmers  and  their  problems,  and 
many  diverse  opinions  as  to  how  best 
to  solve  them.  Because  of  this,  in  1965, 
the  President  set  up  a  National  Ad- 
visory Commission  on  Food  and  Fiber. 
In  his  initial  charge  to  the  Commission 
he  said: 

"New  ways  must  be  explored  to 
keep  agriculture  and  agricultural  pol- 
icy up-to-date,  to  get  the  full  benefit 
of  new  findings  and  of  new  technology, 
to  make  sure  that  our  bountiful  land 
is  used  to  the  best  of  our  ability  to 
promote  the  welfare  of  consumers, 
farmers,  and  the  entire  economy. 

"I  am  asking  you  as  a  Commission 
to  make  a  penetrating  and  long  range 
appraisal  ...  to  construct  a  thor- 
ough and  searching  study  of  the  effects 
of  our  agricultural  policies  on  the 
performance  of  our  economy  .  .  .  ." 

The  report  to  the  President  by  the 
Commission  said — 

"...  the  pursuit  of  efficiency  in  a 
dynamic  economy  means  adjustments 
for  some  of  our  people,  and  perhaps 
the  need  to  look  objectively  at  some 
of  the  long-held  concepts  we  have 
associated  with  work  and  achievement 
on  one  hand,  and  social  and  economic 
organization  on  the  other  .  .  . 

"We  have  reached  the  stage  when 

68 


the  nation  must  clearly  separate  its 
policies  directed  toward  commercial 
agriculture  from  those  designed  to 
deal  with  poverty  in  rural  areas. 
Analyses  and  solutions  for  one  sector 
have  no  particular  significance  to  the 
other  .  .  . 

"The  Commission  is  in  almost  total 
agreement  on  a  number  of  modifica- 
tions needed  in  the  present  agricultural 
commodity  programs  to  bring  U.S. 
farming  closer  to  a  market  orienta- 
tion, help  to  alleviate  excess  capacity, 
and  become  still  more  efficient  and 
responsive  to  changes  in  productivity 
and  markets.  These  include  changes 
in  the  parity  concept,  price  supports, 
deficiency  payments,  acreage  allot- 
ments and  quotas,  reclamation  pro- 
grams, conservation  payments,  stra- 
tegic reserves,  export  subsidies,  and 
import  quotas. 

"The  main  difference  between  the 
majority  and  minority  of  the  Com- 
mission lies  in  the  policies  that  should 
be  followed  after  these  initial  steps 
are  taken. 

"The  majority  of  the  Commission 
recommends  that  the  modified  pro- 
grams be  retained  until  the  problem  of 
excess  capacity  in  farming  is  alleviated, 
and  farmers  are  able  to  earn  incomes 
from  the  market  that  are  comparable 
to  nonfarm  incomes. 

"They  feel  such  programs  may  well 
be  desirable  as  safeguards  for  farmers 
on  a  standby  basis,  even  after  excess 
capacity  has  been  alleviated. 

"The  minority  believes  that,  follow- 
ing an  appropriate  transition  period, 
the  United  States  should  rely  on 
temporary  income  supplements  or  a 
moderate  level  of  price  deficiency 
payments,  to  protect  farmers'  incomes 
against  temporary  declines  with  a 
minimum  of  interference  in  the  opera- 
tion of  the  market." 

Changes  of  the  magnitude  suggested 
will  take  time.  But,  if  we  are  to  con- 
tinue to  visit  our  supermarkets  and 
have  the  same  choices  tomorrow  and 
the  many  tomorrows,  future  programs 
must  make  sure  that  the  primary 
producers  of  food — our  farmers — stay 
healthy,  economically. 


Samuel  C.  Vanneman 

School  Lunch 
to  Food  Stamp: 
America  Cares 
for  Its  Hungry 


Hunger  hurts.  It  hurts  physically,  men- 
tally, and  emotionally.  It  is  a  harsh 
and  ugly  word  that  has  no  place  in  the 
American  scheme  of  things. 

Nutrition  is  a  quiet  word — a  grey 
word — it  carries  no  image  of  anger  or 
harshness.  It  is  a  positive  word,  and  it 
has  an  important  role  in  the  American 
scheme  of  things. 

Americans  are  gradually  becoming 
aware  that  hunger  and,  more  par- 
ticularly, poor  nutrition  still  do  exist 
within  our  borders. 

In  the  last  30  years,  the  United 
States  has  steadily  expanded  and  im- 
proved its  programs  to  improve  nutri- 
tion among  children  and  low-income 
families. 

One  example  is  the  national  school 
lunch  program,  enacted  in  1946.  Con- 
gress, in  the  National  School  Lunch 
Act,  declares  its  policy  to  safeguard  the 
health  and  well-being  of  children  and 
encourage  consumption  of  nutritious 
foods. 

The  Act  authorized  giving  cash  and 
foods  to  schools  that  offer  a  nutri- 
tionally balanced  lunch  to  children, 
without  profit.  Such  lunches  include  a 
half-pint  of  milk,  a  protein-rich  food,  a 
vegetable  and/or  fruit,  and  enriched 


bread    with    butter    or    margarine. 

The  National  School  Lunch  Act  also 
requires  that  a  child  who  cannot  pay 
the  full  price  of  the  lunch  shall  get  it 
free  or  at  a  reduced  price.  The  lunch 
program  is  further  intended  for  all 
children,  regardless  of  their  ability  to 
pay. 

The  special  milk  program — a  dual- 
purpose  program — was  enacted  in 
1954.  By  providing  Federal  cash  assist- 
ance to  help  reduce  the  cost  of  milk 
served  to  children,  nutrition  would 
receive  a  boost  while  at  the  same  time 
strengthening  the  market  for  sales  of 
fluid  whole  milk.  This  program  was, 
in  many  respects,  a'  stopgap  until  a 
complete  lunch,  including  milk,  could 
be  made  available  to  all  children. 

The  oldest  of  our  food  assistance 
programs  is  the  commodity  donation 
program  for  low-income  families.  It 
was  started  some  30  years  ago,  when 
an  amendment  to  law  authorized  en- 
couraging consumption  of  agricultural 
commodities  through  donating  them 
to  low-income  persons,  among  other 
means. 

Originally,  the  foods  offered  to 
State  and  local  governments  for  dona- 
tion to  needy  families  were  limited  to 
foods  acquired  by  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment under  price  support  and  surplus 
removal  programs. 

For  many  years,  the  foods  offered 
depended,  primarily,  on  supply  fac- 
tors and  bore  little  direct  relationship 
to  the  nutritional  needs  of  the  family. 
In  late  I960,  for  example,  the  donated 
foods  included  lard,  flour,  cornmeal, 
nonfat  dry  milk,  and  rice.  The  assump- 
tion had  always  been  that  donated 
foods  would  provide  some  help  and 
free  some  of  the  family's  food  purchas- 
ing power  to  buy  other  foods  needed. 

Over  the  postwar  years  there  had 
been  little  awareness  of  how  many 
people — or  how  many  families — were 
trying  to  live,  trying  to  survive  on  the 
donated  foods  and  little  else. 

Early  in  1961,  steps  were  taken  to 
build  on  what  had  been  done,   and 

Samuel  C.  Vanneman  is  Assistant  Deputy  Ad- 
ministrator, Consumer  Food  Programs,  Consumer 
and  Marketing  Service. 

69 


try  some  new  approaches  to  improving 
nutrition.  The  first  step  was  to  increase 
the  quantity  and  variety  of  the  do- 
nated foods  offered — with  special  em- 
phasis upon  assuring  the  continuing 
availability  of  protein  items. 

The  second  step  was  to  introduce 
the  food  stamp  program  on  a  pilot 
basis.  The  food  stamp  program  uses  a 
different  technique  from  that  of  the 
donation  program.  Food  stamps  are 
used  to  increase  a  family's  existing 
food  purchasing  power.  Families  are 
required  to  purchase  food  coupons  in 
amounts  that  reflect  their  normal  level 
of  food  expenditure  based  on  family 
size  and  income.  This  on-going  food 
purchasing  power  is  then  supple- 
mented by  additional  food  coupons 
provided  free  of  charge.  On  the  aver- 
age, families  pay  about  $6  for  every 
$10  worth  of  coupons  they  receive. 
Families  shop  for  food  in  the  food 
stores  of  their  choice  that  are  author- 
ized to  redeem  the  food  coupons. 
Virtually  every  food  store  in  every 
community  which  has  the  program  is 
authorized  to  accept  food  coupons. 
Families  may  buy  any  food  they  wish 
with  the  exception  of  a  few  imported 
products. 

Here  again,  we  have  a  dual-purpose 
program.  Families  have  an  oppor- 
tunity to  improve  their  nutrition  while 
broadening  the  demand  for  farm 
products — particularly  for  perishable 
items  such  as  meat,  poultry,  dairy 
products,  and  fruits  and  vegetables. 

The  food  stamp  program  was  tested 
on  a  gradually  expanded  basis  before 
enactment  of  substantive  legislation  in 
1964.  This  legislation  contemplated  a 
continuing  gradual  expansion  of  the 
program  so  it  could  be  made  available 
to  every  county  and  city  that  wanted 
it.  Under  one  provision  of  the  Food 
Stamp  Act,  a  local  jurisdiction  may 
have  the  commodity  program  or  the 
food  stamp  program  but  not  both, 
since  essentially  they  are  directed 
toward  the  same  end — improved  fam- 
ily nutrition. 

During  these  years,  every  effort  was 
made  to  encourage  State  and  local 
governments  to  join  one  program  or 

70 


the  other.  Funding  of  the  food  stamp 
program  has  never  been  sufficient  to 
cover  all  of  the  counties  that  have 
wanted  the  program,  but  these  coun- 
ties have  been  urged  to  initiate  a 
donation  program  as  an  interim  step. 
Rates  that  many  families  had  to  pay 
for  their  stamps  were  reduced,  effec- 
tive in  February  1969. 

In  mid-1967,  a  review  of  program 
coverage,  geographically,  revealed  that 
many  of  the  thousand  lowest  income 
counties  in  the  country  did  not  have  a 
food  assistance  program  for  the  low- 
income  families.  Many  of  these,  with 
a  limited  tax  base,  felt  they  could  not 
afford  the  donation  program  under 
which  the  costs  of  storage,  distribution, 
and  certification  are  borne  by  local 
governments  with,  in  most  instances, 
very  limited  help  from  the  State.  The 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  moved 
to  offer  these  local  governments  assist- 
ance in  meeting  local  costs  for  the 
donation  program.  Similar  assistance 
for  a  food  stamp  program  is  barred  by 
language  in  the  Food  Stamp  Act  that 
limits  financial  assistance  for  admin- 
istration to  a  portion  of  certification 
expenses. 

Many  counties  accepted  the  offer  of 
financial  assistance.  Many  managed  to 
find  funds,  locally,  to  join  the  pro- 
gram. But  some  counties  simply  said 
they  did  not  want  a  food  assistance 
program  under  any  circumstances.  In 
these  instances,  USDA  moved  to  meet 
the  larger  responsibility  to  all  our 
low-income  families  by  using  its  own 
personnel  to  operate  a  commodity 
donation  program  in  these  counties. 
At  the  same  time,  USDA  said  it  would 
stand  aside  any  moment  that  the  local 
government  would  agree  to  operate 
the  donation  program  with  or  without 
financial  assistance. 

Meanwhile  the  nutritive  value  and 
the  variety  of  the  foods  offered  under 
the  donation  program  were  stepped 
up.  In  early  1969,  22  foods  were 
offered  which,  if  they  are  all  accepted 
by  State  and  local  governments  and 
used  by  eligible  families,  will  provide 
from  80  to  150  percent  of  the  mini- 
mum daily  requirements  for  all  nutri- 


ents  as  recommended  by  the  Food  and 
Nutrition  Board  of  the  National  Re- 
search Council.  Since  these  foods 
amounted  to  some  35  pounds  per 
person,  each  month,  and  most  areas 
provide  only  a  monthly  distribution, 
some  very  practical  limitations  are 
encountered  in  terms  of  a  large  fam- 
ily's ability  to  get  the  food  home  and 
store  it. 

Also,  in  mid- 1967,  modifications 
were  made  in  the  food  stamp  program 
to  make  it  more  fully  responsive  to  the 


priation  available.  Some  further  mod- 
ifications are  now  under  consideration. 

As  indicated  above,  modifications 
have  been  made  whenever  food  stamp 
program  experience  has  demonstrated 
a  oeed  for  change.  S till  further  changes 
are  under  consideration  to  assure  that 
the  program  is  as  effective  as  possible 
in  assisting  low-income  families  toward 
the  goal  of  an  adequate  diet. 

To  further  emphasize  the  national 
commitment  to  improved  nutrition, 
the    President    has    issued    a    call    to 


Mother  pays  at  checkout  counter  with  food  stamps.  Back  home,  she  uses  purchases  to  feed  baby. 


needs  of  participating  families.  The 
purchase  requirement  for  the  lowest- 
income  families  was  dropped  to  50 
cents  a  month  per  person,  with  a  maxi- 
mum of  $3  for  a  family  of  six  or  more. 
The  first  month's  purchase  require- 
ment for  all  families  was  reduced  by 
half  to  give  them  time  to  adjust  their 
budgets  to  the  purchase  requirement. 
Adjustments  were  made  in  the  deter- 
mination of  farm  income  so  that  farm 
laborers  and  others  would  not  be 
priced  out  of  the  program. 

In  February  1969,  the  price  of 
stamps  was  further  reduced,  but  the 
reduction  was  limited  by  the  appro- 


convene  a  White  House  conference 
on  nutrition  in  the  fall  of  1969. 

It  has  become  increasingly  clear 
that  total  community  involvement  is 
necessary  if  malnutrition  is  to  be 
eliminated.  The  1969  White  House 
conference  will  summon  the  thinking 
and  the  ideas  and  the  recommenda- 
tions of  the  widest  possible  range  of 
concerned  people  from  both  the  pri- 
vate and  the  public  sector  toward 
this  end. 

An  additional  supplementary  food 
program  is  underway  in  both  food 
stamp  and  commodity  donation  areas 
to  provide   the  low-income   pregnant 

71 


Mother  and  young  child  get  extra  food  as  part  of  free  health  care  at 
public  clinic  in  North  Carolina.  Above,  child  is  examined  at  clinic. 
Doctor  then  writes  food  prescription  as  preventative  measure  or  to 
treat  specific  health  condition.  Health  official,  below,  checks  records. 
Family  will  receive  foods  from  USDA-donated  stocks. 


women  and  new  mothers  and  their 
young  children  with  special  foods  to 
meet  their  special  needs. 

The  goal  over  the  next  several  years 
is  to  have  a  family  food  assistance  pro- 
gram operating  in  every  county  and 
independent  city  in  the  country— there 
are  still  more  than  400  that  do  not 
participate. 

Child  Nutrition.  Hand-in-hand  with 
the  evolution  in  family  food  assistance 
programs  has  been  a  similar  develop- 
ment to  improve  child  nutrition.  Pro- 
gram growth  under  the  school  lunch 
program  since  its  start  in  1947  had 
been  steady,  but  the  progress  made 
was  deceiving. 

Behind  the  pleasant  growth  figures 
of  6  to  7  percent  annually  lay  the  un- 
pleasant truth  that  millions — literally 
millions — of  children  had  been  by- 
passed. The  students  in  small  rural 
schools  and  the  students  in  the  urban 
elementary  schools  had  become  the 
forgotten  children.  The  free  and  re- 
duced price  requirement  in  the  Na- 
tional School  Lunch  Act  was  impos- 
sible to  meet  in  the  absence  of  greater 
funding.  Many  schools,  knowing  that 
their  youngsters  couldn't  pay  enough 
to  make  a  viable  lunch  program,  had 
declined  to  sign  up.  Others  did  come 
into  the  program  but  were  only  able 
to  offer  a  fraction  of  the  free  and  re- 
duced price  meals  that  were  necessary. 

The  first  major  forward  step  of  this 
decade  was  taken  in  1962  when  the 
school  lunch  formula  for  apportion- 
ment of  Federal  funds  to  the  States 
was  revised  to  reward  those  States 
making  the  greatest  effort  to  increase 
participation.  The  previous  formula 
had  tended  to  reward  the  stand-pat- 
ters and  discourage  increased  partici- 
pation— the  more  meals  you  served, 
the  less  you  received  per  lunch.  The 
second  major  step  in  that  amendment 
was  one  authorizing  a  higher  rate  of 
reimbursement,  per  meal,  in  those 
schools  drawing  attendance  from  low- 
income  areas.  This  provision  was  much 
needed  and  was  enacted  rather  easily 
but  was  not  funded  until  the  1964-65 
school  year  and,  then,  only  to  a  very 
limited  extent. 


It  was  apparent  that  many  schools 
could  not  participate  in  the  lunch 
program  because  they  were  unable  to 
finance  the  cost  of  even  simple,  basic 
food  service  equipment.  At  the  same 
time,  increasing  numbers  of  educators 
were  finding  that  all  too  many  children 
came  to  school  without  breakfast  or 
with  a  totally  inadequate  one.  They 
fell  asleep  at  their  desks — they  became 
listless  and  inattentive  or  bored  and 
restless.  In  the  Child  Nutrition  Act  of 
1966,  the  Nation  moved  to  meet  this 
need.  Legislation  authorized  a  pilot 
school  breakfast  program.  It  author- 
ized assistance  in  financing  school  food 
service  equipment  in  low-income  area 
schools.  And  it  authorized  help  to  the 
States  in  strengthening  their  technical 
assistance  capabilities  so  as  to  get  food 
service  programs  into  a  substantial 
number  of  schools  that  either  had  no 
programs,  or  where  an  on-going  pro- 
gram was  eking  out  a  quite  precarious 
existence. 

In  1968,  still  another  forward  step 
was  taken  with  legislation  that  author- 
izes food  service  assistance  to  day-care 
centers,  summer  day  camps,  neighbor- 
hood houses,  settlement  houses,  sum- 
mer recreational  projects — almost  any 
situation  where  children  are  gathered 
together  in  organized  groups  and  can 
be  reached  with  a  food  service.  This 
bill  also  extended  the  school  breakfast 
program  which  during  its  pilot  stage 
had  proved  its  value  many  times  over. 

Meanwhile,  during  these  past  sev- 
eral years,  the  Congress  has  provided 
a  level  of  funding  for  the  regular  lunch 
program  that  will  assure  a  steady  rate 
of  reimbursement  per  meal  and  allow 
for  expansion  of  the  regular  program. 
For  fiscal  1969,  the  Congress  provided 
$45  million  over  and  above  the  money 
appropriated  for  what  might  be  con- 
sidered the  regular  child  food  service 
activities.  The  major  share  of  these 
funds — $43  million — was  allocated  to 
provide  free  and  reduced  price  meals 
to  around  2  million  additional  needy 
children  who  could  not  have  been 
reached  with  the  money  available 
under  the  regular  child  food  service 
appropriations. 

73 


Above,  a  young  charmer  with  her 
school  lunch  in  the  Nation's  Capital. 
Below,  child  at  Indian  reservation  in 
Oklahoma  gets  energy  for  class  under 
pilot  school  breakfast  program. 


We  have,  then,  a  situation  where 
the  regular  school  lunch  program  can 
continue  to  grow  and  expand  while 
additional  and  new  resources  are  being 
applied  to  get  to  the  neediest  children. 
And,  as  child  food  service  grows,  so 
does  this  big  market  for  the  Nation's 
farmers — nearly  $1  billion  is  spent  lo- 
cally for  foods  needed  in  the  lunch 
and  breakfast  programs. 

Our  national  goal  is  a  food  service 
program  available  to  every  school 
child,  priced  at  a  level  so  that  every 
child  may  participate.  New  approaches 
are  being  tested  to  minimize  the  cost 
of  equipment,  for  example,  through 
the  use  of  centralized  kitchens  serving 
a  number  of  satellite  schools. 

There  is  one  more  major  drive  under 
way  that  affects  both  the  family  food 
assistance  programs  and  the  child 
nutrition  programs — an  all-out  effort 
to  get  across  the  nutrition  message. 
This  drive  seeks  to  explain  why  good 
nutrition  is  important  and  to  make 
good  nutrition  part  of  everyone's  life. 
The  actual  existence  and  participation 
in  the  food  programs  is  not  enough — 
people  need  to  know  why  they  should 
eat  certain  foods.  And  this  applies  to 
all  of  our  families,  however  poor  or 
however  affluent. 


Kenneth  W.  Olson 

U.S.  Farmers, 
Suppliers  of 
Food  for 
the  World 


American  farmers  produce  such  a  large 
volume  of  agricultural  products  that 
there  is  plenty  for  all  of  us,  with  large 
amounts  left  over  to  share  with  the  rest 
of  the  world. 

Our  country  is  the  world's  biggest 
exporter  of  farm  products.  The  harvest 
from  1  in  every  4  acres  goes  abroad. 

Travel  to  Spain,  and  the  eggs  you 
eat  for  breakfast  may  have  come  from 
hens  fed  on  American  corn.  Travel  to 
Brazil,  and  the  bread  you  eat  for  lunch 
may  have  been  made  from  American 
wheat.  Travel  to  Japan,  and  the  fried 
shrimp  you  eat  for  dinner  may  have 
been  cooked  in  vegetable  oil  from 
American  soybeans. 

In  nearly  125  countries,  you  have 
but  to  look  and  somewhere — on  the 
shelves  of  the  food  shops,  in  the  feed 
mills  and  flour  mills  and  bakeries,  in 
the  cotton  mills,  even  in  the  shoe  fac- 
tories— you  will  find  products  that 
originated  on  American  farms. 

The  farmers  of  the  United  States, 
through  exports,  have  established  a 
presence  in  the  world  that  is  unique, 
helpful,  and  profitable.  It  is  unique 
because  no  other  nation  exports  such  a 
variety  and  volume  of  farm  products 
as  we  do.  It  is  helpful  because  without 


our  farms  as  an  auxiliary  source  of 
food,  millions  of  people  in  Europe, 
Latin  America,  Africa,  and  Asia  either 
would  have  a  lower  standard  of  living 
or  actually  would  be  hungry.  It  is 
profitable  because  foreign  trade  is  good 
business  for  the  United  States;  it  pro- 
vides additional  markets  for  our  fertile 
acres  and  additional  income  for  our 
farm  and  city  people. 

Our  three  biggest  exports  are  wheat, 
feed  grains,  and  soybeans.  Mainly, 
although  not  entirely,  these  products 
move  to  foreign  ports  in  large  bulk 
shipments,  and  sometimes  completely 
filling  the  holds  of  ships.  To  a  lesser 
extent,  they  may  move  in  processed 
form — the  wheat  as  flour,  the  feed 
grains  as  specially  formulated  mixed 
feeds,  and  the  soybeans  as  soybean  oil 
or  meal.  These  three  have  been  called 
members  of  the  Billion  Dollar  Export 
Club,  since  exports  of  each  recently 
have  been  totaling  more  than  $1  billion 
a  year. 

Our  country  has  such  a  diversity  of 
soil  and  climate,  however,  that  our 
farmers  are  able  to  produce  for  export 
a  wide  range  of  products  besides 
wheat,  feed  grains,  and  soybeans.  Last 
year's  official  trade  listings  show  that 
466  different  American  agricultural 
items  moved  into  foreign  commerce. 
Among  them,  naming  only  a  few,  were 
rice,  dairy  products,  red  meats,  poul- 
try, fresh  and  canned  fruits,  lard,  and 
frozen  foods. 

In  total,  the  United  States  exports 
as  much  as  $6  billion  or  more  worth  of 
farm  products  each  year.  Somewhat 
more  than  three-fourths  of  these  ship- 
ments move  as  dollar-earning  com- 
mercial sales;  somewhat  less  than  one 
fourth  of  the  shipments  move  under 
foreign  aid. 

Even  though  it  represents  the  smaller 
segment  of  our  agricultural  exports, 
one  of  the  dramatic  parts  of  our  foreign 
agricultural  trade  is  the  food  aid  we 
make  available  to  the  less  developed 
countries.  Through  this  program  we 


Kenneth  W.  Olson  is  Director  of  the  Foreign 
Market  Information  Division,  Foreign  Agricultural 
Service. 


75 


have  helped  to  prevent  starvation 
among  millions  of  people  and  we  have 
helped  to  build  better  living  condi- 
tions for  millions  of  others. 

During  India's  two  bad  drought 
years,  1965-66  and  1966-67,  about  a 
shipload  of  wheat  moved  daily  from 
American  ports  to  Indian  ports.  Some 
60  million  people  of  India  received 
most  of  their  nourishment  from  this 
American  grain. 

Food  aid  shipments  are  made  largely 
under  authority  of  Public  Law  480, 
the  Food  for  Peace  program.  Under 
this  program,  food  reaches  the  needy 
in  several  ways — through  donations, 
concessional  sales  in  which  the  re- 
ceiving country  pays  with  its  own 
"soft"  currency,  and  sales  for  dollars 
under  long-term  credit  arrangements. 
Between  1954,  when  Public  Law  480 
was  enacted  by  the  Congress,  and  the 
end  of  1968,  a  total  of  $17^  billion 
worth  of  U.S.  farm  products  moved  to 
needy  countries  under  its  provisions. 

Throughout  the  years  of  Public  Law 
480,  however,  there  has  been  growing 
recognition  that  this  food  aid  alone  is 
not  an  adequate  answer  to  the  gnaw- 
ing question:  "Can  the  world  feed 
itself?"  Two  years  ago  an  important 
addition  was  made  to  the  program. 
A  "self-help"  stipulation  was  added 
which  says  that  a  developing  country, 
to  be  eligible  for  our  food  assistance, 
must  be  making  a  determined  effort  to 
improve  its  own  farm  production  and 
general  economic  status — in  other 
words,  must  be  trying  seriously  to  get 
off  the  relief  rolls  and  become  self- 
supporting. 

Today  our  food  aid  program  not 
only  is  helping  to  feed  hungry  people 
but  is  giving  encouragement  and  sup- 
port to  their  own  efforts  to  do  a  better 
job  of  feeding  themselves. 

We  noted  earlier  that  the  big  part 
of  U.S.  sharing  of  food  supplies  with 
the  world  takes  place  not  under  aid 
but  under  traditional  methods  of  sell- 


Kyoto  boy  enjoys  his  first  taste  of  soft  "ice 
cream"  made  of  soybean  products.  This  taste 
treat  is  becoming  increasingly  popular  in 
Japan,  world's  No.  1  importer  of  U.S.  soybeans. 


Sharing  Our  Abundant  Food  Supplies  with  the  World 

[Billion  dollars] 


U.S.  agricultural 

Total 

exports 

Year  ending 

June  30 

Govern- 

Dollar 

Agri- 
cultural 

All  U.S. 

ment 

sales 

exports 

programs 

exports 

1946 

1.8 

1.1 

2.9 

8.5 

1947 

0.9 

2.7 

3.6 

12.7 

1948 

1.6 

1.9 

3.5 

13.8 

1949 

2.3 

1.5 

3.8 

12.7 

1950 

2.0 

1.0 

3.0 

10.1 

1951 

1.2 

2.2 

3.4 

12.6 

1952 

0.6 

3.4 

4.1 

15.6 

1953 

0.5 

2.4 

2.8 

15.1 

1954 

0.6 

2.3 

2.9 

15.2 

1955 

0.8 

2.3 

3.1 

14.9 

1956 

1.3 

2.2 

3.5 

16.9 

1957 

1.9 

2.8 

4.7 

20.7 

1958 

1.2 

2.8 

4.0 

18.7 

1959 

1.2 

2.5 

3.7 

17.4 

1960 

1.3 

3.2 

4.5 

19.1 

1961 

1.5 

3.4 

4.9 

20.5 

1962 

1.6 

3.6 

5.1 

21.4 

1963 

1.5 

3.6 

5.1 

21.6 

1964 

1.5 

4.6 

6.1 

24.7 

1965 

1.7 

4.4 

6.1 

26.3 

1966 

1.6 

5.1 

6.7 

28.9 

1967 

1.6 

5.2 

6.8 

30.8 

1968 

1.6 

4.7 

6.3 

32.0 

Total 

1946-68.. 

.      31.7 

68.9 

100.7 

430.1 

Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  due  to  rounding. 


76 


10  LEADING  US.  AGRICULTURAL  EXPORTS. 

AS  PERCENTAGE  OF  FARM  SALES,  1968 

Year  Ending  June  30 


20  40 

PERCENTAGE 

Exports   compared   with   farm   sales    except   with   production    tor    rice. 
hide*  and  skins,  tallow,  cotton,  and  tobacco. 


ing  in  the  world  market.  And  we  noted 
that  three-fourths  of  our  agricultural 
exports  move  as  commercial  sales.  An 
additional  fact  of  which  many  people 
are  not  fully  aware  is  that  these  dollar- 
earning  commercial  sales — averaging 
$5  billion  a  year  during  the  1966-68 
fiscal  years — have  become  the  strongest 
single  contributor  in  easing  our  Na- 
tion's troublesome  balance  of  pay- 
ments problem. 

American  agriculture's  positive  con- 
tribution to  the  Nation's  international 
payments  position  comes  about  be- 
cause our  dollar-earning  agricultural 
exports  have  been  considerably  larger 
than  our  dollar-costing  agricultural 
imports.  The  difference  between  them, 
known  as  the  favorable  trade  balance, 
has  helped  to  offset  balance  of  pay- 
ments deficits  incurred  by  the  non- 
agricultural  part  of  our  economy.  In 
this  way,  American  agriculture  has 
contributed  a  net  plus  of  about  $1 
billion  a  year  to  our  Nation's  balance 
of  payments  during  some  recent  years. 

American  agriculture  and  foreign 
commerce  are  not  new  to  each  other. 
In  colonial  days,  the  pioneer  farmers 
sold  their  tobacco,  cotton,  rice,  jute, 
and  indigo  to  markets  in  England. 
What  is  new  about  today's  U.S.  agri- 


cultural export  flow  is  its  size  and 
diversity.  Every  American  agricultural 
product  finds  part  of  its  market  abroad. 
Half  or  more  of  our  production  of  rice, 
wheat,  and  hides  and  skins  is  exported. 
A  third  to  a  half  of  our  cotton,  grain 
sorghum,  tallow,  soybean,  and  tobacco 
production  is  exported.  A  fourth  of  our 
corn  is  exported. 

These  large  foreign  markets  for 
American  farm  products  are  a  com- 
paratively recent  development.  Much 
expansion  has  taken  place  within  the 
past  10  years.  In  fiscal  year  1958,  we 
exported  only  $4  billion  worth  of  farm 
products.  In  fiscal  year  1967,  we  ex- 
ported a  record  $6.8  billion  worth,  a 
gain  of  70  percent.  And  the  long-range 
outlook  for  future  gains  is  good. 

The  expanding  of  foreign  markets 
for  our  farm  products  is  one  of  the 
outstanding  success  stories  of  modern 
American  agriculture.  As  every  suc- 
cessful businessman  knows,  however, 
market  expansion  is  not  a  process  that 
takes  place  by  itself.  The  "e"  in  expan- 
sion requires  an  additional  "e"  for 
effort.  The  effort  behind  this  expansion 
has  been  in  two  directions. 

•  Access  to  foreign  markets.  Trade 
barriers  arc  the  bane  of  any  exporter's 
existence.   No   matter   how   good   his 


American  Rice  Council  representative  talks 
prices  with  Saudi  Arabian  sheikh,  who  ordered 
large  quantities  of  U.S.  rice  at  display  in  Beirut. 


product,  or  attractive  his  price,  his 
selling  efforts  are  frustrated  unless  the 
doors  of  an  importing  country  are 
open.  The  United  States  has  worked 
hard  for  many  years — and  with  con- 
siderable success — to  open  doors  and 
bring  about  a  freer  flow  of  agricultural 
products  in  international  trade  chan- 
nels. The  Kennedy  Round  of  trade 
negotiations  was  only  one  example  of 
such  efforts.  Work  goes  on  continu- 
ously to  get  foreign  governments  to 
permit  our  farm  products  to  enter 
their  countries  and  compete  for  sales 
to  their  consumers. 

•  Promotion  in  foreign  markets.  With 
access  to  a  foreign  market,  the  exporter 
of  American  farm  products  is  able  to 
promote  sales.  This  he  is  doing  today 
more  aggressively  than  ever  before.  And 
in  doing  it,  he  is  given  a  helping  hand 
by  the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
and  a  large  number  of  cooperating  pri- 
vate trade  and  agricultural  producer 
associations. 

A  new  chapter  in  U.S.  agricultural 
export  promotion  was  begun  when, 
somewhat  more  than  10  years  ago, 
USDA  and  cooperating  agricultural 
and  trade  groups  set  up  a  joint- venture 
foreign  market  development  program. 
Gradually  the  program  was  expanded 
until  today  sales  promotions  are  being 
carried  out  abroad  for  every  major 
agricultural  commodity  produced  in 
the  United  States. 

The  list  of  countries  in  which  the 
promotions  are  carried  out  has  grown 
to  70.  Much  of  the  actual  promotion 
work  is  done  by  the  cooperators,  and 
they  use  a  variety  of  techniques:  Mar- 
ket surveys,  demonstrations,  technical 
assistance  to  foreign  users,  advertising, 
test  shipments,  and  many  others. 

A  prime  means  of  attracting  foreign 
tradespeople  and  consumers  is  through 
exhibits  of  U.S.  farm  and  food  products 
at  international  trade  fairs.  Since  1955, 
USDA  and  cooperators  have  sponsored 
more  than  200  such  "showcases"  in  al- 
most 40  countries.  Among  target  cities 
have  been  London,  Paris,  Munich, 
Cologne,  Brussels,  and  Tokyo. 

Permanent  trade  centers  for  promo- 

78 


tion  of  U.S.  products  are  maintained 
in  London,  Milan,  and  Tokyo,  and 
they  too  help  to  stimulate  sales. 

Another  way  that  foreign  consumers 
are  being  reached  is  through  "America 
Week"  U.S.  food  promotions  in  large 
department  stores  and  in  self-service 
chainstores.  This  type  promotion  in 
Tokyo  in  April  1968  resulted  in  sales 
of  American  foods  that  totaled  nearly 
$1  million. 

Still  another  export  promotion  tech- 
nique is  the  foreign  trade  mission. 
Teams  of  specially  selected  marketing 
experts,  representing  both  our  Govern- 
ment and  private  business,  from  time 
to  time  visit  countries  that  are  active 
or  potential  buyers.  The  evaluations 
and  advice  they  bring  back  provide 
important  guidelines,  both  to  exporters 
selling  in  the  areas  and  to  Government 
efforts  to  assist  such  sales.  In  similar 
fashion,  teams  of  foreign  buyers  are 
brought  to  the  United  States  to  get 
acquainted  with  our  producers  and 
our  products. 

The  success  we  have  achieved  in 
foreign  agricultural  marketing  has  not 
always  come  easily.  For  the  sun  never 

U.S.  AGRICULTURAL  EXPORTS, 
BY  COUNTRY,  1968 
Year  Ending  June  30 


(100  Million 


Data  not  adjusted  for  intransit  shipments;  U.S.  shipments  through 
Canadian  ports,  for  example,  were  $79  million 


Foreign  promotions  of  U.S.  foods. 
Above  left,  country  singer  intro- 
duces West  Berlin  boy  to  American 
hamburger.  Above  right,  "bride" 
samples  U.S.  food  at  British  food 
show.  Right,  film  star  Dana  An- 
drews autographs  cake  at  U.S.  food 
promotion  in  Spain. 


79 


sets  on  the  flags  of  our  competitors. 
Wherever  American  farm  products  go, 
there  also  are  the  products  of  others — 
Canada,  Australia,  New  Zealand, 
Thailand,  Communist  China,  Den- 
mark, France,  the  Netherlands,  South 
Africa,  Argentina. 

Adding  to  the  problems  of  compe- 
tition, there  also  is  an  increasing  trend 
toward  protectionism  and  self-suffi- 
ciency in  some  of  our  major  markets, 
particularly  those  of  Western  Europe. 
This  trend  in  the  six  countries  of  the 
European  Economic  Community  al- 
ready is  hurting  some  of  our  agri- 
cultural sales  there,  and  the  impact 
may  be  even  greater  in  the  years 
ahead  of  us. 

In  Japan,  our  largest  single  market 
for  agricultural  products,  there  is  a 
definite  trend  toward  diversifying  the 
sources  of  supply.  That  is,  Japan  is 
seeking  to  spread  its  buying  around 
among  a  number  of  agricultural  ex- 
porting countries  instead  of  depending 
so  heavily  upon  a  single  country  such 
as  the  United  States  for  its  supplies. 

Even  the  developing  countries  are 
increasing  their  trade  barriers  against 
American  farm  products.  In  a  number 


of  instances  they  have  set  up  special 
trading  arrangements  with  other  sup- 
pliers, thereby  cutting  off  that  much 
of  their  markets  for  our  agricultural 
exports. 

Though  many  problems  lie  ahead, 
however,  the  fact  is  that  at  this  par- 
ticular period  of  history,  our  Nation 
is  enjoying  rewarding  returns  from 
its  agricultural  exporting  operations. 
Look  at  a  map  and  you  will  see  that 
we  have  only  a  relatively  small  share 
of  the  world's  land  area.  Yet,  our 
farmers  supply  nearly  a  fifth  of  all  the 
agricultural  products  that  move  in 
world  trade.  We  produce  abundandy 
and,  mainly  through  trade,  we  now 
share  and  can  expect  to  continue  to 
share  abundandy  with  a  world  that 
needs  and  welcomes  our  products. 

For  further  reading: 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Hand- 
book of  Agricultural  Charts.  Agricultural  Hand- 
book 359,  Washington,  D.C.  2025C,  1968. 

U.S.  Economic  Research  Service,  For- 
eign Agricultural  Trade  of  the  United  States.  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington, 
D.C.  20250. 

U.S.  Foreign  Agricultural  Service,  For- 
eign Agriculture.  U.S.  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture, Washington,  D.C.  20250. 


American  foods  are  popular  in  grocery  stores  around  world.  Here,  shoppers  examine  Hawaiian 

pineapple  at  Tokyo  supermarket. 


80 


Quentin  M.  West 


The  Revolution 
in  Agriculture: 
New  Hope  for 
Many  Nations 


Antonino  Eldemida  is  a  rice  farmer  in 
the  province  of  San  Isidro  in  the 
Philippines.  He  is  a  tenant  on  12  acres 
of  land.  He  is  probably  the  first  farmer 
to  plant  "miracle"  rice.  His  yields 
more  than  doubled.  He  sold  the  new 
rice  for  23  pesos  ($5.90)  per  cavan 
(100  lbs.).  He  bought  an  acre  of  land 
and  a  tractor;  he  sent  two  children  to 
college.  He  improved  his  irrigation 
system  as  well. 

This  year  there  is  a  surplus  of  rice 
in  the  Philippines.  The  government 
has  a  lot  of  money  in  rice  it  bought 
last  year  and  cannot  export.  It  has  not 
been  able  to  support  the  price  this 
year.  Senor  Eldemida  only  received 
1 1.5  pesos  per  cavan  this  year.  He  still 
makes  more  money  than  with  the  old 
varieties,  but  some  of  the  bloom  is  off 
the  "miracle." 

H.  S.  Grewal  is  a  wheat  farmer  in 
the  Punjab  state  of  India.  He  is  a 
retired  army  major  and  owns  30  acres 
of  irrigated  land.  He  adopted  the  new 
dwarf  wheat  2  years  ago.  Yields  in- 
creased more  than  50  percent.  He  has 
replaced  his  Persian  water  wheel 
(operated  by  buffalo)  with  an  electric 
pump.  He  has  ordered  a  tractor,  but 
it  will  take  2  to  3  years  to  get  it. 


The  Punjab  has  produced  a  surplus 
of  about  2  million  tons  of  wheat  the 
past  2  years  which  has  helped  feed  the 
deficit  areas  in  India.  However,  it 
took  a  long  time  to  move  it,  and  there 
was  not  enough  storage.  If  the  mon- 
soon had  not  been  2  weeks  late  last 
summer,  thousands  of  tons  of  harvested 
wheat  would  have  been  rained  on. 

It  is  important  to  be  clear  what 
today's  world  agricultural  revolution 
is  and  what  it  is  not.  It  is  a  tremendous 
accomplishment.  It  is  a  new  hope  for 
developing  nations.  It  is  not  a  total 
solution  to  the  hunger  problem,  but  it 
should  make  substantial  additions  to 
food  supplies  in  countries  where  there 
have  been  food  shortages.  It  should 
relieve  the  pressures  to  produce  or  to 
import  grains  to  provide  sufficient 
quantities  of  food  and  enable  these 
countries  to  begin  to  plan  for  better 
quality  of  diet,  including  the  livestock 
products,  pulses,  fruits,  and  vegetables. 

Today's  hope  for  hungry  nations 
starts  with  their  growing  awareness 
of  the  necessity  for  agricultural  im- 
provement. More  of  their  national 
budget  is  being  allocated  to  agricul- 
ture. More  foreign  exchange  is  being 
made  available  for  fertilizer  imports. 
Some  governments  have  scrapped  their 
cheap  food  policy  and  are  supporting 
higher  farm  prices.  But  an  important 
factor  in  present  prospects  is  the  new 
high-yielding  varieties  of  wheat  and 
of  rice. 

Dwarf  varieties  of  wheat,  developed 
with  the  support  of  the  Rockefeller 
Foundation  in  Mexico,  are  now  being 
planted  across  South  Asia  and  in 
North  Africa.  In  West  and  South 
Asia,  these  improved  varieties  now 
cover  an  estimated  16  percent  of  the 
total  wheat  acreage. 

Two  new  tropical  varieties  of  rice 
(IR-8  and  IR-5)  have  been  developed 
by  the  International  Rice  Research 
Institute  in  the  Philippines,  a  com- 
bined Ford-Rockefeller  Foundations 
venture.  They  have  been  planted  on 
about  13  million  hectares  or  about  7 


Quentin  M.  West  is  Director,  Foreign  Regional 
Analysis  Division,  Economic  Research  Service. 


81 


percent  of  the  rice  land  in  South  and 
Southeast  Asia  this  year  (1968/69). 

These  new  grain  seeds  are  especially 
responsive  to  heavy  application  of  fer- 
tilizer, as  many  old  varieties  are  not. 
When  grown  under  proper  conditions, 
they  produce  yields  which  may  double 
or  more  those  of  the  old  seed.  A  rough 
estimate,  based  on  very  limited  infor- 
mation, is  that  the  new  varieties  of  rice 
will  add  about  9  percent  to  the  total 
production  of  South  and  Southeast 
Asia  in  1,968/69,  compared  with  what 
production  would  have  been  without 
them.  Wheat  production  in  West  and 
South  Asia  in  1968/69  may  be  20  per- 
cent higher  due  to  the  new  dwarf 
varieties.  This  is  difficult  to  estimate 
because  this  year  and  last  have  seen 
good  weather  following  2  years  of 
drought  in  several  countries.  Also,  fer- 
tilizer consumption  has  been  rising 
sharply  and  grain  acreage  has  gone  up. 

Several  factors  will  impede  expan- 
sion of  the  new  varieties.  They  are  new 
to  the  regions  where  they  are  being 
introduced  and  may  become  suscep- 
tible to  local  diseases  and  insects.  Plant 
protection  services  are  primitive  in 
most  of  these  countries.  Without  large 
investments  in  irrigation  facilities,  the 
potential  of  these  new  seeds  will  not  be 
realized.  Since  the  new  rice  matures 
early,  during  the  latter  part  of  the 
wet  season,  drying  facilities  must  be 
supplied. 

Also,  priorities  given  to  agriculture 
could  weaken  as  the  food  crisis  of  the 
past  few  years  abates.  Farm  prices 
could  fall  and  reduce  farmers'  incen- 
tives. If  internal  marketing  and  dis- 
tribution facilities  are  not  improved, 
increased  food  supplies  may  not  reach 
the  people  who  need  them.  Also,  as 
countries  begin  to  produce  a  surplus 
over  their  effective  domestic  demand, 
problems  of  finding  export  markets  at 
satisfactory  prices  soon  develop. 

From  our  own  history,  however,  we 
know  that  the  path  of  agricultural  de- 
velopment is  not  always  smooth.  It 
would  be  too  much  to  expect  unruffled 
progress  in  the  developing  countries. 
The  important  thing  is  that  agricul- 
tural development  has  gotten  off  dead- 

82 


center  and  is  moving.  With  hope,  we 
can  expect  the  progress  to  be  greater 
than  the  problems. 

World  Food  Situation 

What  is  the  size  and  scope  and  his- 
tory of  today's  world  food  problem? 
Where  is  it  centered?  And  what  are 
we  of  the  United  States  doing  to  help 
to  solve  it? 

Opinions  on  the  magnitude  of  the 
world  food  problem  have  often  swung 
between  extremes  of  pessimism  and 
optimism.  In  the  late  1940's,  consid- 
erable concern  existed  about  world 
food  shortages.  Fears  lessened  as  sur- 
pluses accumulated  in  the  early  1950's. 
However,  by  the  mid-1950's,  supply 
management  and  food  aid  programs 
began  to  reduce  the  large  U.S.  reserves. 
Then  in  1966,  there  was  a  rapid  draw- 
down of  world  grain  stocks  and  an 
increase  in  grain  prices  largely  as  a 
result  of  expanded  imports  by  India 
and  the  Soviet  Union.  India  had  2 
successive  years  of  drought,  and  the 
Soviet  Union  had  two  crop  failures 
in  3  years. 

These  events  were  taken  by  many 
as  evidence  that  the  world  food  prob- 
lem was  worsening,  and  again  raised 
the  question  whether  there  would  be 
sufficient  food  in  the  future  to  supply 
the  rapidly  growing  world  population 
at  acceptable  levels  of  nutrition. 

In  1967,  the  situation  was  somewhat 
different.  Record  grain  crops  had  been 
produced  in  the  Soviet  Union,  Canada, 
and  Australia  (1966/67).  India  har- 
vested almost  100  million  tons  of  food 
grain  (1967/68),  compared  with  73 
and  78  million  in  the  previous  2  years. 
Western  Europe  and  South  Africa  also 
had  record  grain  crops.  Crop  produc- 
tion gains  in  1967  were  especially 
marked  in  the  less-developed  countries 
of  the  free  world.  Per  capita  food  out- 
put increased  by  about  5  to  6  percent, 
a  recovery  to  the  previous  record  level 
of  1964  or  slightly  above. 

Record  crops  in  the  developing 
countries  in  1967  and  the  successes 
of  the  new  high-yielding  varieties  of 
wheat  and  rice  have  led  many  to  be 


more  optimistic  about  development 
possibilities  in  these  countries.  They 
feel  that  the  new  grain  varieties,  plus 
a  whole  new  agricultural  technology 
involving  large  fertilizer  applications, 
irrigation,  and  double  (or  even  triple) 
cropping  can  revolutionize  agriculture 
and  food  production  in  many  of  the 
developing  nations. 

Food  production  again  increased  in 
the  developing  countries  in  1968  but 
only  at  the  same  pace  as  population. 
Per  capita  production  remained  at 
practically  the  same  level  as  in  1967. 

It  is  hard  to  determine  with  any 
degree  of  accuracy  the  current  food 
situation  in  the  developing  countries 
and  project  how  it  will  change  in  the 
future.  Statistics  do  not  exist,  or  at 
the  best  are  rough  estimates,  in  many 
nations  for  even  the  most  basic  ele- 
ments of  population,  production,  and 
trade.  Weather  may  cause  fluctuations 
in  agricultural  production  as  great  as 
25  percent  and  obscure  other  changes. 
The  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
is  doing  research  on  the  world  food 
problem  because  it  is  essential  to  our 
programs  for  food  aid,  agricultural 
trade,  and  domestic  production  to 
have  the  best  estimates  possible  of 
developments  in  these  countries.  The 
major  reports  on  this  research  are  The 
World  Food  Budget,  WO,  (FAER  19), 
and  World  Food  Situation;  Prospects  for 
World  Grain  Production,  Consumption, 
and  Trade  (FAER  35).  Some  highlights 
of  these  studies  follow. 

The  Food  Gap 

Probably  two-thirds  of  the  world's 
people  live  in  countries  with  nutrition- 
ally inadequate  national  average  diets. 
The  diet-deficit  areas  include  all  of 
Asia  except  Japan  and  Israel,  all  but 
the  southern  tip  of  Africa,  and  most  of 
South  and  of  Central  America.  The 
calorie  level  of  the  diets  of  people  in 
these  less-developed  countries  averages 
about  three-fourths  that  of  people  liv- 
ing in  developed  countries,  and  is 
150  to  200  calories  below  the  minimum 
standard  of  2,400  calories  required  for 
normal  activity  and  health. 


Consumption  of  about  40  pounds 
additional  grain  per  person  annually 
would  be  required  to  meet  this  calorie 
deficit.  The  total  additional  grain 
required  for  the  free  world  developing 
countries  would  amount  to  about  25 
million  metric  tons  of  grain,  or  about 
10  percent  of  their  present  production 
of  grains.  Almost  two-thirds  of  this 
requirement  is  in  four  major  food-aid 
countries — India,  Pakistan,  Indonesia, 
and  Egypt,  with  over  45  percent  in 
India  alone. 

There  is  also  a  deficiency  of  protein 
in  most  of  the  developing  countries. 
Daily  consumption  of  protein  by  the 
people  in  these  countries  averaged 
less  than  two-thirds  of  the  level  in 
the  developed  nations. 

Food  production  has  been  increas- 
ing at  a  slightly  faster  rate  in  the 
developing  countries  than  in  the 
developed  countries,  but  the  per  capita 
trend  in  developing  countries  has  been 
slowed  by  a  high  rate  of  population 
growth.  Annual  population  growth 
has  reached  2%  to  3  percent  in  many 
developing  countries,  as  widespread 
application  of  medical  technology  and 
improved  food  supplies  have  reduced 
death  rates. 

An  important  aspect  of  the  world 
food  problem  is  to  bring  birth  rates 
into  balance,  and  some  progress  is 
being  made  in  this  effort.  The  most 
encouraging  signs  come  from  Chile, 
Hong  Kong,  Singapore,  Taiwan,  and 
Trinidad,  where  birth  rates  have  fallen 
so  fast  that  the  number  of  babies  born 
in  1966  was  less  than  in  1960.  Fairly 
clear  signs  of  a  decline  in  the  crude 
birth  rate  are  now  reported  from 
Ceylon,  West  Malaysia,  Jamaica,  and 
Costa  Rica. 

Over  the  past  two  decades,  food 
production  per  capita  has  increased 
in  the  developing  countries  at  an  an- 
nual rate  of  only  about  one-third  of  1 
percent,  whereas  food  consumption 
has  been  increasing  at  almost  one-half 
of  1  percent  per  capita. 

The  gap  between  production  and 
consumption  has  been  made  up  by 
increased  food  imports  from  the  de- 
veloped countries.  Food  imports  by 

83 


the  developing  countries  have  been 
mostly  grain  to  increase  calorie  intake. 

Before  World  War  II,  the  free  world 
developing  countries  (excluding  the 
grain  exporters — Argentina,  Mexico, 
Burma,  Thailand,  Cambodia)  were 
net  importers  of  only  2.3  million  tons 
of  grain.  But  for  the  past  few  years 
they  have  imported  nearly  30  million 
tons  annually.  More  than  one-fourth 
of  this  has  gone  to  India. 

What  have  been  the  forces  responsi- 
ble for  this  gap  between  production 
and  consumption  in  emerging  nations? 

Higher  Levels  of  Living — Before  World 
War  II,  there  was  little  concern  about 
the  welfare  of  people  in  the  developing 
countries.  The  great  mass  of  people 
in  these  areas  subsisted  as  they  had  for 
centuries,  at  the  hunger  margin;  this 
was  more  or  less  a  fact  of  life. 

Since  then,  66  of  these  developing 
countries  have  become  independent. 
Almost  without  exception,  they  have 
immediately  embarked  on  a  program 
of  economic  development.  These  have 
had  varied  success,  but  in  general  they 
have  brought  about  some  improve- 
ment in  the  per  capita  income;  1  to  2 
percent  annually.  With  rising  incomes, 
people  demand  more  food.  They  also 


desire  higher  quality  food  which  re- 
quires greater  agricultural  resources 
for  their  production. 

As  incomes  rise,  if  increased  supplies 
are  not  available,  food  prices  go  up, 
and  the  poorer  people — whose  ability 
to  buy  has  not  improved — can  obtain 
even  less  food.  Because  of  the  great 
importance  of  food  prices  to  a  large 
majority  of  the  population,  sharp  rises 
in  prices  are  likely  to  have  political 
repercussions.  Under  such  circum- 
stances there  are  strong  pressures  to 
expand  food  imports.  With  food  aid 
available,  this  expansion  has  been 
possible  without  diverting  scarce  for- 
eign exchange  resources. 

Urbanization — The  impact  of  popu- 
lation on  food  supplies  in  the  develop- 
ing countries  is  accentuated  by  the 
concentration  of  people  in  cities.  The 
extremely  rapid  growth  of  urban  pop- 
ulation compounds  the  problem  be- 
cause it  imposes  the  difficult  task  of 
improving  the  distribution  system  so 
food  can  be  moved  from  producing 
areas  to  urban  areas. 

To  accomplish  this  task,  incentives 
must  be  used  to  bring  farmers  into  the 
commercial  economy.  Not  only  must 
there  be  an  increase  in  production  of 


Seed  testing  laboratory  in  India,  left.  Right,  Bolivian  woman  compares  small  native  potato  with 
improved  variety  now  grown  with  help  of  Alliance  for  Progress  program. 


food,  but  marketing  facilities  must  be 
built  to  transport,  store,  process,  and 
distribute  the  farm  products.  When 
this  task  is  not  accomplished,  urban 
centers  have  to  rely  on  imports  for 
much  of  their  food  supplies. 

Availability  of  Food  Aid — The  United 
States  has  long  shown  a  great  concern 
for  the  hungry  people  of  the  world. 
Immediately  after  World  War  II,  agri- 
cultural aid  programs  were  instituted 
to  supply  food  to  war-torn  areas  of 
Europe.  In  the  early  1950's,  following 
a  severe  drought  in  India  and  Pakistan, 
special  wheat  loans  were  made  to  these 
countries. 

During  the  1950's,  American  farm 
output  increased  much  faster  than  did 
consumption,  and  surpluses  of  several 
agricultural  products  began  to  build 
up.  In  an  effort  to  dispose  of  these 
surpluses  and  at  the  same  time  give 
foreign  countries  an  opportunity  to  ob- 
tain agricultural  products  which  their 
limited  foreign  exchange  would  not 
permit  them  to  buy,  Congress  in  1954 
enacted  Public  Law  480:  "To  increase 
the  consumption  of  U.S.  agricultural 
commodities  in  foreign  countries." 
Since  that  time,  the  United  States  has 
shipped  over  135  million  metric  tons 


of  wheat  and  about  40  million  tons  of 
other  grains  under  this  program. 

This  U.S.  food  production  capacity 
and  the  large  accumulation  of  U.S. 
grain  stocks  has  made  it  possible  for 
the  developing  countries  to  expand 
their  consumption  faster  than  their 
production  over  the  past  decade. 

Should  We  Feed  the  World? 

The  policy  of  the  United  States  is 
to  encourage  and  assist  the  developing 
nations  of  the  free  world  to  develop 
economically  and  improve  their  own 
food  production  so  they  will  become 
less  dependent  on  food  aid.  A  sig- 
nificant feature  of  the  Food  for  Free- 
dom program  is  the  requirement  of 
self-help  efforts  to  accelerate  food  pro- 
duction within  the  food-deficit  coun- 
tries themselves. 

Food  aid  probably  will  continue  to 
be  needed  for  the  next  decade.  But 
dependence  on  food  aid  should  dimin- 
ish as  these  countries  accelerate  agri- 
cultural development  and  economic 
growth  to  the  point  where  they  can 
produce  or  commercially  import  their 
food  requirements. 

If   the    developing    countries    raise 


India  extension  guide  estimates  size  of  corn  raised  by  farmer  at  right,  who  achieved  highest 

yield  in  his  area. 


their  rate  of  increase  in  agricultural 
production  to  4  percent  annually — a 
rate  already  reached  by  a  few  coun- 
tries— they  would  be  achieving  a  high 
enough  rate  of  growth  in  food  pro- 
duction to  provide  minimum  adequate 
calorie  levels  for  their  people  by  1980 
and  break  their  dependence  on  food 
aid.  However,  this  would  require 
unprecedented  increases  in  resource 
commitment  to  agricultural  develop- 
ment. It  would  require  massive  efforts 
by  developing  nations  and  consider- 
able assistance  by  developed  countries. 
National  leaders  have  emphasized 
that  "hunger  is  a  world  problem.  It 
must  be  dealt  with  by  the  world." 
They  have  called  for  a  "truly  interna- 
tional effort  to  combat  hunger  and  to 
modernize  agriculture."  The  Food  for 
Freedom  Act  affirms  the  "sense  of 
Congress  that  the  President  should 
encourage  other  advanced  nations  to 


make  increased  contributions  for  the 
purpose  of  combating  world  hunger 
and  malnutrition,  particularly  through 
the  expansion  of  international  food  and 
agricultural  assistance  programs."  The 
Food  Aid  Convention  under  the  Inter- 
national Grains  Arrangement  of  1967 
is  a  step  in  this  direction. 

Although  faster  progress  is  needed 
among  developing  countries,  there  is 
no  immediate  likelihood  of  a  world 
food  shortage.  It  is  estimated  that  the 
production  capacity  in  the  developed 
nations  will  be  more  than  ample  to 
meet  import  needs  of  the  developing 
nations  in  the  foreseeable  future.  In 
fact,  even  if  there  were  no  improvement 
in  the  rate  of  agricultural  development 
in  developing  countries  and  their  grain 
import  requirements  doubled  over  the 
next  decade,  the  developed  countries 
would  still  possess  some  excess  grain 
production  capacity. 


South  Vietnam  boy  with  American  Sugar  Baby  watermelon  grown  In  his  country  under  the  U.S. 

aid  program. 


Rex  F.  Daly 


Food  Enough 
for  the  U.S.? 
A  Crystal  Ball 
Look  Ahead 


Chances  are  small  indeed  that  you 
or  I  will  live  to  see  famine  conditions 
in  the  United  States.  Many  of  us  may 
eat  poorly  by  habit;  a  few  of  us  may 
be  hungry  at  times.  But  food  has  been, 
and  will  very  likely  remain,  relatively 
abundant  for  most  of  us  during  our 
lifetimes. 

The  very  word  "future"  intrigues 
us.  And  properly  so,  for  everybody 
has  a  vital  interest  in  the  subject. 
The  future  is  where  we  will  live,  work, 
and  play.  Our  interest  is  genuine ; 
and  our  actions  in  the  days,  months, 
and  years  ahead  will  determine  to 
a  considerable  extent  the  kind  of 
21st  century  we  will  have.  If  we  are 
able  to  be  more  than  passive  agents 
in  the  overall  scheme  of  things,  well 
thought  out  plans  and  goals  will  form 
a  rational  bridge  between  our  present 
and  our  future. 

It  is  a  risky  business,  at  best,  to 
try  to  predict  the  future,  and  of 
course,  we  can't  presume  to  do  so 
with  any  great  degree  of  accuracy. 
Projections  should  not  be  considered 
an  attempt  to  anticipate  some  in- 
evitable unraveling  of  coming  decades. 
Rather,  they  should  be  thought  of  as 
a   sketch  of  the  future,   as   tools   to 


help  us  to  anticipate  changes,  possible 
imbalances  in  supplies,  and  other 
likely  problems.  A  chart  of  the  future 
may  turn  out  to  be  a  red  flag  that 
warns  us  of  undesirable  consequences 
if  current  trends  or  policies  are  con- 
tinued. Or,  it  may  be  a  goal  or  blue- 
print for  future  actions. 

In  general,  long-term  prospects  for 
plentiful  supplies  of  food,  while  favor- 
able to  us,  are  by  no  means  assured. 
And  for  most  of  the  remaining  world, 
the  prospects  are  hopeful  but  not 
optimistic  because  of  the  continuing 
population-food  imbalance.  Food  in 
our  future  will  depend  on  the  outcome 
of  the  race  between  domestic  and  for- 
eign demand  and  our  potential  for 
producing  food  in  the  United  States. 
So  as  a  prelude  to  what  the  future 
may  hold  for  us,  let's  take  a  look  at 
our  past  and  present  achievements, 
policies,  and  problems. 

Food  production  is  an  economic 
process  in  which  the  farmer  brings 
together  resources  to  produce  food. 
Accordingly,  he  is  interested  in  de- 
mand for  his  products  backed  with 
buying  power.  He  likes  to  grow  things, 
but  he  also  must  make  money  to  stay 
in  business. 

Production  is  an  economic  process 
because  it  depends  upon  the  cost  of 
resources,  demands  for  food,  and  the 
prices  these  will  bring.  But  it  is  partly 
physical  in  the  sense  that  it  depends 
on  natural  resources  and  the  state  of 
technology.  Thus  our  food  supplies 
depend,  in  part,  on  how  hard  and  in 
what  way  we  as  a  society  wish  to  push 
to  increase  them. 

Larger  quantities  of  most  crops 
could  be  produced  now,  but  this  would 
be  a  costly  and  unprofitable  venture. 
Similarly,  if  we  ever  chose — or  were 
forced — to  have  a  "no  meat"  diet, 
our  current  production  capacity  would 
feed  four  or  five  times  as  many  people 
as  it  does.  Feeding  animals  to  furnish 
us  with  meat  is  less  efficient  than 
direct  use  of  crops  for  food. 

Rex  F.  Daly  is  Director  of  Ike  Economic  and 
Statistical  Analysis  Division,  of  the  Economic 
Research  Service. 

87 


In  the  past,  our  supplies  of  food 
have  been  large  enough  to  depress 
farm  prices  and  incomes.  In  the  last 
three  decades,  farm  production  has 
increased  nearly  80  percent.  This  was 
accomplished  using  fewer  acres,  fewer 
farmworkers,  more  mechanical  power, 
more  fertilizer,  and  gready  improved 
"know-how."  These  bumper  crops 
and  the  huge  carryover  stocks  have 
spawned  programs  designed  to  ex- 
pand our  markets  for  food  and  to 
limit  production. 

Our  U.S.  agriculture  is  in  an  ex- 
cellent position  to  provide  us  with 
what  we  need  as  well  as  to  help  people 
in  other  nations.  In  addition  to  the 
millions  of  acres  currently  being 
withheld  from  production,  there  are 
millions  more  which  are  suitable  for 
farming.  At  present,  however,  it  would 
require  either  higher  farm  prices  or 
more  public  expenditures  to  make 
this  worthwhile  to  farmers. 

Higher  farm  prices,  and  higher  re- 
turns to  farmers  would  also  step  up  the 
use,  if  not  the  tempo,  of  technological 
developments.  Research  in  breeding  is 
resulting  in  more  productive  hybrid 
seeds,  better  disease  and  insect  con- 
trols, and  genetic  modifications  such 
as  high-protein  corn.  Similar  research 
on  livestock  is  resulting  in  vigorous 
crossbreeds,  multiple  births,  improved 
use  of  feed,  and  meatier  cuts. 

In  addition  to  the  ordinary  means 
of  expanding  our  food  supplies,  syn- 
thetics are  indirectly  serving  the  same 
purpose.  These  have  cut  into  usual 
markets  for  such  foods  as  sugar,  fruit 
juices,  and  several  protein  foods. 

Another  recent  development  with  an 
impact  on  supplies  similar  to  that  of 
synthetics  is  the  current  substitution 
of  lower  priced  farm  foods  for  milk 
products,  meat  protein,  and  animal 
fats.  This  kind  of  substitution  may  af- 
fect potential  food  supplies  even  more 
than  synthetics.  For  example,  the  con- 
sumption of  dairy  products  would  be 
about  50  percent  larger  than  it  is  if  the 
industry  still  had  its  prewar  markets 
for  butter,  cream,  and  some  of  the 
other  high-fat  products. 

The   primary   reason   for   shifts   to 

88 


crop  products  is  that  they  are  usually 
cheaper  and  require  fewer  resources 
than  animal  products.  About  a  third 
of  our  calories  now  come  from  animal 
products.  To  produce  these  1,100  cal- 
ories, animals  require  more  than  10,000 
calories,  some  of  which  come  from 
products  which  could  be  used  direcdy 
for  food. 

The  world  could  support  many  times 
its  present  population  if  the  photosyn- 
thetic  process  could  be  more  fully  used. 
This  is  the  process  which  transforms 
carbon  dioxide  from  air  and  water 
into  energy.  Though  we  now  use  a 
very  small  proportion  of  annual  photo- 
synthetic  output  for  food  and  feed,  it 
has  great  potential.  The  leaves  of  many 
plants  are  substantial  sources  of  energy 
and  protein.  And,  the  chlorophyll- 
bearing  algae  of  the  sea  are  reported 
to  be  around  100  times  more  efficient 
than  corn  in  the  use  of  solar  energy. 
The  day  will  surely  come  when  we 
will  better  understand  the  "miracle  of 
the  green  plant"  and,  perhaps,  be  able 
to  make  more  efficient  use  of  this  re- 
ceiving set  for  solar  energy. 

All  these  are  rather  rosy  possibilities 
for  our  food  supplies  in  the  next  few 
decades.  Nevertheless,  there  are  some 
gnawing  uncertainties  about  how  we 
can  resolve — not  only  the  publicized 
world  food-population  race — but  also 
two  other  questions.  One  of  these  re- 
lates to  the  longer  run  potential  for 
productivity  and  yields  in  agriculture; 
the  other  considers  results  of  imbal- 
ances being  created  by  erosion,  waste, 
and  pollution. 

Charting  longer  run  productivity  is 
difficult.  With  the  moon  within  reach, 
there's  a  great  temptation  to  be  opti- 
mistic in  all  assessments.  Also,  in  the 
past  we  have  usually  understated  long- 
run  technological  possibilities  and  pro- 
ductivity. Even  so,  we  should  not  let 
this  tendency  to  be  conservative  blind 
us  to  some  of  the  constraining  factors 
that  may  be  with  us. 

The  revolutionary  advances  in  out- 
put per  man-hour  in  agriculture,  about 
double  the  productivity  gains  in  the 
nonfarm  sector,  are  in  part  a  fiction. 
A  rapid  decline  in  number  of  farms  is 


due  to  combining  several  smaller,  and 
often  less  efficient,  units  into  larger 
and  more  efficient  units.  The  result  is 
a  sharper  rise  in  productivity  for  agri- 
culture as  a  whole  than  for  individual 
farms  or  size  groups.  If  the  size  struc- 
ture of  agriculture  continues  evolving 
into  an  industry  of  fewer  and  larger 
optimum-size  farms,  does  not  this 
imply  some  slowing  in  the  growth  of 
productivity? 

Questions  about  waste  and  pollu- 
tion demand  answers,  for  they  bear  on 
our  food  supply  potential.  In  recent 
years,  a  growing  body  of  evidence  sug- 
gests that,  along  with  industry  and 
huge  population  concentrations,  agri- 
culture is  contributing  to  the  wastes 
and  pollution  of  our  soil,  water,  and 
air.  The  dimensions  of  these  problems 
are  not  known,  but  the  private  and 
social  costs  of  correcting  them  are  ex- 
pected to  be  immense.  The  potential 
threat  to  our  future  supplies  of  food 
is  clear. 

Most  large  rivers  and  lakes  are 
polluted  with  wastes  and  sediment. 
Appraisals  of  Lake  Erie  read  almost 
like  an  obituary.  Possibly  a  similar 
fate  lies  ahead  for  Lake  Michigan. 
Its  basin  States  recendy  signed  an 
agreement  to  protect  the  environment 
of  the  lake.  Such  pollution  problems 
go  ".  .  .  beyond  the  development  of 
new  technology;  beyond  sophisticated 
analyses  of  benefits  and  costs  in  the 
economic  arena;  and  beyond  the 
police  power  of  legislation." 

The  U.S.  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture's 1967  report  on  pesticides  and 
related  activities  attests  to  the  magni- 
tude of  the  problem  and  the  concern 
about  contamination.  Random  re- 
search tides  indicate  the  nature  of 
current  questions  such  as  management 
and  removal  of  pesticides  from  food; 
contamination  of  soil  and  of  runoff 
water;  and  the  effects  of  feeding  con- 
taminated forage. 

Some  biologists  are  alarmed  over 
the  heavy  use  of  nitrogen  fertilizers. 
Because  of  their  relatively  low  prices, 
these  have  been  replacing  the  use  of 
animal  manures.  Apparently,  the  in- 
creasingly massive  use  of  high-nitrogen 


fertilizers  has  forced  considerable 
amounts  into  the  air  and  runoff  water. 
This  added  emphasis  on  the  use  of 
inorganic  nitrogen  may  also  contribute 
some  toxicity  to  feeds  and  other  crops 
used  for  food. 

A  recent  USDA  report  states  that  a 
serious  consequence  of  contaminations 
by  insecticides  is  that,  through  the 
"food  chains"  from  plants  to  animals 
to  man,  residues  may  progressively 
accumulate  to  higher  levels. 

As  fertilizers,  insecticides,  and  other 
chemicals  form  a  vital  link  in  our 
capacity  to  produce  food,  solutions  to 
the  problem  of  contamination  may 
have  to  come  from  greater  biological 
controls  over  disease  and  insects,  by 
the  using  of  new  and  possibly  safer 
chemicals,  and,  possibly,  by  reduced 
applications.  Solutions  may  increase 
production  costs  and  slow  the  present 
upward  trend  in  yields.  As  a  result, 
during  the  next  quarter  century  we 
may  not  be  able  to  plan  with  complete 
certainty  on  ample  supplies  of  rela- 
tively low-priced  food.  Our  research 
programs  and  plans  must  continue 
on  the  side  of  caution  because  the 
costs  of  being  too  optimistic  could  be 
mammoth. 

What  kind  and  how  much  food  we 
will  be  eating  after  the  turn  of  the 
century  will  depend  on  many  factors. 
Important  among  these  is  the  rate  of 
increase  in  world  population.  Our 
postwar  program,  which  reduced  dis- 
ease, insects,  and  malnutrition  in  the 
less  developed  countries,  sharply  re- 
duced death  rates  and  contributed  to  a 
worldwide  population  upsurge.  In  the 
first  two-thirds  of  this  century,  world 
population  more  than  doubled  to 
around  Z%  billion  people.  If  recent 
growth  rates  continue,  it  will  double 
again  by  the  end  of  this  century. 

The  United  Nations  recendy  re- 
ported an  annual  growth  in  population 
of  between  2  and  3%  percent  in  the  less 
developed  parts  of  the  world,  which 
now  includes  three-fourths  of  the 
earth's  inhabitants.  Annual  growth 
rates  for  Europe,  North  America,  and 
the  Soviet  Union  ranged  from  0.8  per- 
cent to  about  1.25  percent.  To  put 

89 


these  in  perspective:  At  a  2-percent 
growth  rate,  population  will  double  in 
35  years;  at  a  3-percent-a-year  rate,  it 
will  double  in  less  than  24  years.  The 
rapidly  growing  regions  harbor  most 
of  the  hunger  and  malnutrition,  and 
some  of  these  areas  are  not  well  en- 
dowed with  natural  resources.  As  a 
result  of  rapid  growth  in  population, 
fewer  working-age  people  must  provide 
for,  and  train,  many  more  of  the  young 
people  if  these  areas  are  to  assume  a 
viable  role  in  tomorrow's  world. 

The  implications  of  unrestricted  pop- 
ulation growth  are  not  generally  un- 
derstood. Any  population  growth  rate, 
if  sustained,  will  ultimately  push  world 
population  to  an  unacceptable  level. 
Though  it  will  never  arrive  at  a  "stand- 
ing room  only"  crowd,  uninterrupted 
growth  does  imply  this  or  a  somewhat 
less  but  still  unpleasant  fate.  Birth 
rates  needed  for  a  stable  population 
depend  on  average  life  expectancy.  If 
we  want  an  average  life  expectancy  of 
60  years  and  a  stable  population,  both 
birth  and  death  rates  would  have  to 
average  around  17  per  1,000  people  or 
about  the  present  U.S.  birth  rate.  Un- 
controlled births  probably  average 
around  40  to  50  per  1,000  people. 

Attitudes  toward  population  plan- 
ning are  tied  up  with  religion,  folklore, 
and  politics,  and  many  nations  see  pop- 
ulation controls  as  weakening  their  vi- 
tality and  political  influence.  Despite 
all  the  publicity  regarding  the  need  for 
world  population  control,  this  problem 
may  remain  the  critical  barrier  to  right- 
ing the  population-resource  equation 
in  much  of  the  world. 

In  the  years  ahead,  economic  growth 
in  the  United  States  and  the  world  will 
increase  consumer  buying  power.  This 
will  accelerate  the  demand  for  food  in 
the  less  developed  regions  of  the  world. 
On  the  other  hand,  in  the  United  States 
and  other  high-income  nations,  rising 
incomes  may  have  less  impact  on  per 
capita  food  use  than  in  the  past. 

In  general,  some  current  and  persist- 
ent trends  in  U.S.  diets  will  moderate 
due  to  changes  in  prices,  inroads  of 
substitute  products,  and,  perhaps,  to 
health  considerations.  Whether  due  to 

90 


any  or  all  of  these  factors,  it  doesn't 
seem  realistic  to  expect  a  continuation 
of  past  big  gains  in  per  capita  use  of 
beef  and  poultry  meat.  Similarly,  the 
current  downward  trend  in  per  capita 
use  of  grains  and  animal  fats  may  be 
slowed. 

Synthetic  foods  and  substitute  vege- 
table proteins  and  oils  will  become 
more  widely  used  in  place  of  animal 
proteins  and  fats.  Laws,  controls,  and 
other  institutional  barriers  probably 
will  be  overcome,  much  as  they  were 
for  the  margarine  versus  butter  con- 
troversy. Even  so,  there  is  no  reason  to 
expect  a  revolutionary  change  in  our 
diets  unless  the  world  population  is  un- 
checked, or  there  is  a  slower  rise  than 
is  expected  in  the  U.S.  food  supplies. 
If,  for  example,  we  were  forced  back 
to  the  type  of  meals  we  ate  in  1930 
because  of  tight  demand-supply  bal- 
ance and  high  prices,  per  capita  de- 
mand and  need  for  food  production 
resources  would  drop  about  7  percent. 
This  would  reduce  per  capita  demand 
for  livestock  products  by  16  percent 
and  raise  the  use  of  crops  by  about  10 
percent. 

Despite  impacts  of  the  problems  al- 
ready described — unrestricted  growth 
of  population,  increased  waste  and 
pollution,  and  the  possibility  of  slower 
productivity  advances  in  agriculture — 
some  qualitative  views  will  be  pre- 
sented about  supply  and  price  pros- 
pects for  food.  These  projections  should 
be  looked  on  as  largely  illustrative. 

Population  in  the  United  States  will 
continue  to  grow.  The  sharp  decline  in 
birth  rates  since  1955  has  slowed  popu- 
lation growth  to  about  1  percent  per 
year.  However,  these  birth  rates  are 
expected  to  increase  during  the  next 
several  years  as  a  rising  number  of 
women  reach  the  most  fertile  child- 
bearing  ages. 

The  Census  Bureau  projects  four 
levels  of  birth  rate,  with  the  next-to- 
the-lowest  of  the  levels  projecting 
around  308  million  people  by  the  year 
2000  compared  to  around  200  million 
today.  This  is  considered  a  reasonable 
projection,  and  represents  an  annual 
population  growth  of  1.3  percent,  the 


same  as  the  past  3}£  decades.  The 
next  highest  level  projects  336  million 
people,  and  this  may  be  entirely  as 
reasonable. 

During  the  next  30  to  40  years,  the 
economy  is  expected  to  grow  somewhat 
faster  than  during  recent  years.  Pro- 
jections of  the  labor  force,  hours 
worked,  and  production  per  man-hour 
for  the  year  2000  indicate  a  potential 
gross  national  product  nearly  four 
times  the  1964-66  average.  Consumer 
buying  power  will  grow  more  rapidly 
than  the  2  percent  per  year  rate  during 
the  past  2>%  decades. 


tion  of  grain  products  will  continue  to 
decline,  but  at  a  slower  rate  than  in 
the  past. 

It  is  likely  that,  in  the  upcoming 
decades,  exports  of  farm  products 
will  continue  to  be  the  most  expanding 
part  of  the  total  demand  for  U.S. 
farm  products.  This,  of  course,  is 
based  upon  the  assumption  that  our 
agriculture  will  continue  to  have  an 
excess  capacity  to  produce.  The 
economic,  social,  and  political  forces 
which  can  affect  exports  are  difficult 
to  identify  and  virtually  impossible 
to  measure. 


Probe  used  to  get  wheat  sample  from  railroad  car  of  grain  in  Ohio,  first  step  in  grading  wheat. 


In  our  expanding  economy,  most  of 
us  will  be  able  to  buy  the  foods  we 
want.  Though  advances  in  food  prices 
would  have  little  effect  on  how  much 
food  each  of  us  eats,  changes  in  the 
prices  of  individual  items  may  alter 
the  foods  in  our  diet.  Since  income  and 
price  may  have  progressively  less  effect 
on  what  we  buy,  we  might  reasonably 
sketch  a  diet  for  the  1980  decade.  It 
will  include  even  more  red  meat — 
particularly  beef,  more  poultry,  and 
more  processed  fruits  and  vegetables. 
The  projected  diet  includes  about  the 
same  amount  of  pork,  less  milk,  fewer 
eggs,  and  a  smaller  amount  of  animal 
fats  such  as  butter  and  lard.  Consump- 


To  illustrate  what  could  happen 
to  farm  prices,  incomes,  expenditures 
for  food,  and  resource  requirements, 
we  can  assume  two  levels  of  future 
exports.  The  first  projects  the  volume 
of  crop  exports  in  the  year  2000  to 
nearly  five  times  what  they  were  in 
1964—66.  This  would  be  equivalent 
to  more  than  40  percent  of  total  crop 
production,  compared  with  22  per- 
cent in  1964—66. 

The  second  assumption  projects 
crop  exports  by  the  year  2000  at  about 
three  times  the  1964-66  volume.  That 
would  equal  about  30  percent  of 
projected  crop  output.  This  latter 
and  less  optimistic  projection  would 

91 


Food  Consumption  Trends 

Average  per  person,  per  year 

Commodity                                      Unit           1929-1931  1949-1951  1964-1966  Projected 

Red  meat  (carcass  weight) lb.                130  142  171  192 

Poultry  (ready-to-cook) lb.                   16  25  41  60 

Eggs doz.                28  32  26  24 

Nfilk  (milk  equivalent) qt.                383  339  287  245 

Food  fats  and  oils  (fat  basis) lb.                   45  44  48  47 

Fruits,  vegetables  and  potatoes  (fresh  farm 

weight) lb.                502  517  489  520 

Grains  (farm  weight) lb.                339  257  230  215 


suggest  little  change  in  prices  assum- 
ing the  full  use  of  land  now  available 
for  crops.  The  higher  export  projection 
would  resultj  to  start  with,  in  sharply 
higher  prices  until  additional  acreage 
and  other  resources  could  be  drawn 
into  production.  Adding  another  100 
million  acres  would  increase  produc- 
tion and  moderate  the  price  increases. 
There  is,  of  course,  no  way  to  judge 
how  much  additional  land  and  other 
resources  would  come  into  produc- 
tion. And,  there  is  litde  basis  for  esti- 
mating how  productive  these  new 
resources  would  be.  But  we  can  mull 
over  some  probable  consequences. 

Farm  prices  projected  under  the 
more  modest  export  projection  would 
average  about  10  percent  below  those 
resulting  from  the  higher  one.  Lower 
crop  prices  would  reduce  feed  costs, 
increase  use  of  feed,  and  step  up  pro- 
duction of  livestock  products.  Also  as 
a  result  of  lower  prices,  domestic  food 
use  of  both  crops  and  livestock  prod- 
ucts would  be  a  little  more  than  if  a 
larger  share  were  exported.  However, 
moderately  higher  prices  probably 
would  not  greatly  alter  the  U.S.  diet 
that  is  sketched  above  unless  there 
were  large  price  differences  among 
important  foods. 

If  we  can  avoid  big  increases  in 
demand  or  a  marked  slowing  in  food 
production,  food  bills  will  take  a  still 
smaller  share  of  our  incomes  (after 
taxes).  If  food  prices  increase  at  about 
the  same  rate  as  those  of  other  goods, 
as  they  have  over  the  last  3%  decades, 
expenditures  for  food  will  have  to 
shrink  as  a  share  of  consumer  income. 
The  decline  is  an  inevitable  conse- 
quence when  food  expenditures  go 
up  at  a  slower  rate  than  incomes. 

92 


By  the  year  2000,  the  percentage 
of  income  spent  for  food  might  be 
down  by  four  or  five  points  from  the 
17.3  percent  in  1968.  However,  in- 
creased demand  or  slower  gains  in 
production  could  slow,  halt,  or  even 
reverse  the  downward  trend  in  the 
percentage  of  income  spent  for  food. 

Farm  production  in  the  year  2000 
is  projected  to  a  level  about  double 
what  it  was  in  1964-66.  This  will  be 
accomplished  with  around  half  the 
work  force,  somewhat  more  land,  and 
possibly  two  to  three  times  the  volume 
of  nonfarm  resources  that  were  used 
in  the  midsixties. 

The  number  of  farms  are  expected 
to  continue  to  decline  in  response  to 
gains  in  efficiency  and  farm  consoli- 
dation. A  continuation  of  this  trend 
would  suggest  around  1  %  million  farms 
by  2000.  Perhaps  less  than  half  these 
farms  would  account  for  the  commer- 
cial output  of  agriculture.  Certainly 
changes  in  number  and  size  now  un- 
derway and  in  prospect  for  agriculture, 
along  with  technical  advances,  point 
to  fewer,  larger,  and  more  efficient 
commercial  farm  units. 

This  discussion  was  started  by  as- 
serting that  the  possibility  of  famine 
in  the  United  States  was  very  remote, 
and  it  should  end  on  this  note  as  well. 
At  the  same  time,  however,  uncer- 
tainty does  exist  about  the  potential 
of  our  food  production  capacity  and 
about  our  role  in  the  outcome  of  the 
world  population-food  race. 

In  planning  for  the  future,  the  costs 
of  being  too  optimistic  are  great  in- 
deed. The  stakes  are  high,  not  only  in 
dollars  but  also  in  terms  of  adequacy 
and  purity  of  our  food,  our  health, 
and  perhaps  our  vitality  as  a  Nation. 


Olive  M.  Batcher 
Charles  E.  Murphey 


Ail  About  Meat, 
That  Key  Item 
in  Food  Buying, 
Meal  Planning 


Very  few  people  realize  that  there  are 
enough  different  kinds  and  cuts  of 
meat  available  in  today's  supermarkets 
so  a  homemaker  could  prepare  a  dif- 
ferent meat  dish  for  her  family  every 
day  of  the  year.  This  variety  should 
make  meat  buying  and  meal  planning 
a  real  pleasure. 

Since  meat  commands  a  large  share 
of  today's  food  dollar,  the  consumer 
should  know  as  much  as  possible  about 
its  selection  and  preparation. 

As  assurance  to  consumers  that  their 
meat  is  wholesome,  all  meat  and  meat 
products  prepared  in  plants  which 
make  shipments  into  other  States  must 
be  federally  inspected.  This  assures 
us  that  the  meat  comes  from  healthy 
animals,  is  processed  under  sanitary 
conditions,  is  properly  labeled  and 
packaged,  and  it  is  not  adulterated 
or  contaminated.  A  round  stamp 
identifies  meat  which  has  passed  this 
inspection. 

Although  meat  and  meat  products 
from  plants  that  do  not  ship  out-of- 
State  usually  will  not  be  federally  in- 
spected, many  States  and  municipali- 
ties have  their  own  inspection  systems. 
However,  under  the  Federal  Whole- 

94 


some  Meat  Act  of  1967,  each  State 
must  provide,  by  1970  at  the  latest, 
inspection  equal  to  Federal  inspection 
for  plants  which  sell  meat  solely  within 
the  State.  If  this  isn't  done,  these 
plants  will  become  subject  to  Federal 
inspection. 

In  this  country,  "meat"  means  the 
"red  meats"  or  those  produced  from 
cattle,  sheep,  and  hogs.  Our  beef, 
calf,  and  veal  are  all  produced  from 
cattle — they  differ  in  the  maturity  of 
the  animal  from  which  they  are  pro- 
duced. Veal  comes  from  very  young 
animals — usually  3  months  of  age  or 
younger.  It  has  a  grayish  pink  lean 
which  is  very  smooth  and  velvety  and 
it  usually  has  very  little  fat.  Veal  is 
prized  for  its  delicate  flavor.  Calf  is 
produced  from  slightly  older  ani- 
mals— usually  3  to  8  months  of  age. 
Its  lean  is  grayish  red  in  color,  fine 
in  texture,  and  mild  in  flavor. 

Beef  is  from  still  more  mature 
animals.  Most  beef  sold  as  cuts  in 
retail  stores  is  from  animals  15  to  30 
months  of  age.  Most  of  the  beef  from 
the  older  animals  is  used  for  making 
processed  products  like  frankfurters, 
bologna,  and  luncheon  meats.  Fresh 
beef  is  available  at  all  times  in  every 
section  of  the  United  States. 

Lamb  is  meat  from  young  sheep 
usually  less  than  a  year  old.  Tender, 
juicy,  and  flavorful  lamb  is  available 
throughout  the  year.  Meat  from  older 
sheep  is  called  mutton,  but  very  little 
of  this  is  sold  as  fresh  meat  in  retail 
stores. 

Pork,  mostly  produced  from  young 
hogs,  is  always  available  in  quantity. 
Although  the  total  fat  content  of  some 
pork  cuts  may  be  higher  than  for  most 
other  meats—depending  upon  how  it 
is  trimmed — the  lean  of  pork  is  not  any 
higher  in  fat  than  is  beef. 

Success  in  preparation  of  all  meat 
dishes — the  concern  of  every  cook — 
begins  with  selection  of  the  meat.  One 

Olive  M.  Batcher  is  a  Research  Food  Tech- 
nologist, in  the  Human  Nutrition  Research  Division, 
Agricultural  Research  Service. 

Charles  E.  Murphey  is  Assistant  Chief,  Stand- 
ardization Branch,  Livestock  Division,  Consumer 
and  Marketing  Service. 


U.S. 

INSPECTED 

AND  PASSED  BY' 

DEPARTMENT  0F| 

AGRICULTURE, 


INSPECTION  STAMP  FOR  PROCESSED  MEATS 


of  the  more  important  factors  affect- 
ing the  desirability  of  meat  is  the 
portion  of  the  animal  from  which  it 
came — the  lean  meat  in  some  parts  is 
naturally  more  tender  and  palatable 
than  in  others.  Also,  cuts  from  various 
parts  differ  in  the  number  and  size 
of  muscles  and  in  the  amount  and 
location  of  bone.  Cuts  with  only  one 
or  two  muscles,  and  which  do  not 
contain  any  bones  that  interfere  with 
carving,  are  more  attractive  and  con- 
venient to  serve. 

There  are  no  Federal  or  other  laws 
or  regulations  which  relate  to  the 
names  of  meat  cuts  prepared  in  retail 
markets.  However,  the  names  of  most 
of  the  more  popular  cuts  have  become 
fairly  well  standardized.  But  in  the 
case  of  the  less  popular  cuts,  different 
names — many  of  which  are  not  really 
descriptive — are  frequendy  applied  to 
the  same  cut. 

The  muscles  and  bones  of  all  our 
meat  animals  and  the  relative  desira- 
bility of  cuts  from  the  various  parts  are 
quite  similar.  This  simplifies  learning 
how  to  recognize  cuts  and  how  to  use 
them  to  best  advantage.  Names  of  cuts 
frequendy  reflect  the  name  of  a  portion 
of  the  carcass  or  the  shape  or  name  of 
a  bone. 

In  general,  cuts  from  along  the  back 
of  the  animal  are  naturally  the  most 
tender  and  palatable.  They  include  the 
"ribeye"  or  "loineye"  muscle — the 
largest  muscle  in  the  animal  and  also 
one  of  the  most  desirable. 

Cuts  from  the  back  between  the  hip 
bone  and  the  last  rib  contain  the  famil- 
iar T-shaped  bone  and  two  major 
muscles.  The  larger  muscle  is  the  loin- 


eye  and  the  smaller  one  is  the  tender- 
loin. These  are  separated  by  the 
upright  portion  of  the  "T"  shaped 
bone.  In  pork  and  lamb,  this  portion 
usually  is  made  into  center-cut  loin 
chops.  In  beef,  it  is  nearly  always  used 
for  steak.  When  prepared  "bone-in," 
these  are  referred  to  as  porterhouse, 
T-bone,  or  club  steaks. 

In  porterhouse  steaks  the  tenderloin 
is  large,  in  the  T-bone  it  is  intermedi- 
ate in  size,  and  club  steaks  contain,  at 
most,  only  a  very  small  portion  of 
tenderloin.  Retailers  leave  varying 
amounts  of  "tail"  or  flank  meat  on 
these  steaks.  This  is  definitely  less  de- 
sirable than  the  rest  of  the  steak.  If 
this  flank  portion  has  not  been  re- 
moved, the  steak  should  be  priced 
cheaper.  When  the  bone  is  removed 
from  this  section,  steaks  from  the  loin- 
eye  muscle  are  called  strip  steaks. 

The  tenderloin  usually  is  made  into 
filet  mignon  or  tenderloin  steaks.  How- 
ever, the  tenderloin  is  sometimes  made 
into  portions  several  inches  in  length  to 
serve  two  or  more.  Such  a  cut  is  fre- 
quendy called  "chateaubriand." 

In  the  section  of  the  back  which 
contains  ribs,  the  bone  structure  in- 
cludes the  thin  backbone  vertebrae 
and  a  short  section  of  attached  rib 
bones.  In  beef,  this  section  usually  is 
made  into  roasts.  When  the  bones 
are  not  removed,  it  is  the  ever-popular 
standing  rib  roast.  These  usually  are 
further  identified  as  5-inch,  7-inch, 
or  10-inch  cuts  to  reflect  differing 
amounts  of  rib  ends  or  short  ribs  left 
on  the  cut.  If  the  bones  are  removed 
it  becomes  a  boneless  rib  roast. 

The  large,  ribeye  muscle  together 
with  a  few  small,  firmly  attached 
muscles  are  sometimes  removed  and 
sold  as  a  roast — the  ribeye  roll — or  as 
ribeye  or  delmonico  steaks.  Many 
consider  this  the  premier  cut  of  beef. 

In  lamb  and  pork  this  rib  section 
usually  is  made  into  rib  chops  or  rib 
roasts.  The  crown  roast  of  pork  or 
lamb  is  fashioned  from  two  such  rib 
sections.  In  pork,  when  the  large  rib- 
eye muscle  is  removed  and  cured  and 
smoked  it  is  Canadian  style  bacon. 

Immediately  below  (as  the  animal 

95 


BEEF  CHART 
Wholesale  Cuts  of  Beef  and  Their  Bone  Structure 


Snort 

Loin         sirloin 


il  Cuts  of  Beef  and  Where  They  Come  From 


BYf  l$y  ■■  QuBMt  (Bottom)  Itoffl* 

Rolled  ftump 


W  4> 


W«Mimt 


BIB 
'Imn  Sfcui 


'S, 
Flan*  Stab 


VIM 


G><iuo#B«Bf4nm^ 
!  Sam  rw»,|S««»y' 
AfifcjftJKli, 
«i*  timtfi  ~ 


Beef'Settta 


•  ft 

Skllt«teik  Fdlea 


®*HBNel 


Corned  8r«kat 


!  Tfcotfus*  StiwHer  Pot  roast  w  Steak 


96 


stands)  these  two  back  sections  are 
thinner  portions  which,  except  for 
pork,  are  much  less  desirable.  In 
pork,  this  is  where  bacon  and  spare- 
ribs  originate.  In  beef,  these  portions 
are  made  into  a  variety  of  cuts — ground 
beef,  beef  stew,  short  ribs,  beef  bacon, 
and  corned  beef.  (Corned  beef  is 
cured  similar  to  pork  but  it  is  not 
smoked.)  The  flank  steak  also  orig- 
inates in  this  section.  In  lamb,  these 
portions  are  normally  sold  for  stewing 
or  as  ground  lamb. 

In  the  region  which  contains  the 
hip  bone,  the  muscles  are  highly 
desirable — large  and  tender.  In  beef, 
this  portion  usually  is  made  into 
sirloin  steaks.  In  lamb  it  is  included 
as  a  part  of  the  leg  or  sold  as  sirloin 
chops.  In  pork  it  is  made  into  a  loin 
end  roast  or  into  sirloin  chops.  The 
hip  bone  is  quite  variable  in  size  and 
shape.  In  beef,  the  back  bones  are 
frequendy  removed,  especially  from 
steaks  in  which  the  hip  bone  is  large. 

The  hind  leg  portion — round  in 
beef,  ham  in  pork,  and  leg  in  lamb) — 
also  contains  large  muscles  and  the 
main  part  of  this  portion  includes 
only  a  small  round  bone.  In  beef,  the 
round  is  made  into  rump  roasts  and 
round  steaks  or  roasts.  Because  of  its 
size,  the  main  part  of  the  beef  round 
frequendy  is  separated  into  its  three 
major  sections — the  top  round,  bottom 
round,  and  round  tip  or  knuckle.  The 
bottom  section  contains  two  parts  of 
which  the  "eye  of  the  round"  is  more 
desirable.  When  the  eye  of  round  is 
sold  separately,  the  remaining  portion 
is  still  referred  to  as  bottom  round. 

In  pork,  the  ham  is  merchandised 
whole,  separated  into  butt  and  shank 
halves,  or  made  into  a  center  cut 
roast  or  center  slices  and  the  remainder 
sold  as  butt  and  shank  ends.  The 
center  cuts  contain  only  the  small 
round  leg  bone.  In  lamb,  the  leg  may 
be  sold  in  one  piece  or  made  into  butt 
and  shank  halves.  When  sold  in  one 
piece  but  with  a  small  end  of  the 
shank  meat  removed,  it  is  a  "  Frenched" 
leg.  When  the  shank  bone  is  removed 
but  the  shank  meat  is  not,  it  is  an 
"American"  leg. 


There  is  considerable  variation  in 
the  way  cuts  are  made  from  the  fore- 
part of  meat  animals  and  in  the 
names  given  these  cuts.  In  lamb,  the 
fore  shank  is  sold  as  such — and  one 
shank  makes  a  generous  serving.  In 
beef,  the  shank  usually  is  made  into 
ground  beef.  To  the  inside  of  the 
shank  on  beef  is  the  brisket — and  in 
lamb,  the  breast.  Beef  brisket  is  the 
cut  which  is  most  frequendy  made 
into  corned  beef.  When  purchasing 
corned  beef  it  should  be  remembered 
that,  as  a  result  of  the  curing  process, 
it  may  have  some  added  moisture. 
Corned  briskets  produced  in  federally 
inspected  plants  may  weigh  up  to  20 
percent  more  than  their  uncured 
weight,  but  the  other  corned  cuts  are 
limited  to  an  increase  in  weight  of 
10  percent. 

Immediately  above  the  shank  and 
the  brisket  or  breast  is  the  chuck 
(beef)  or  shoulder  (lamb).  Rib  and 
back  bones  are  located  on  the  inside 
of  these  cuts  and  the  arm  bone  and 
shoulder  blade  are  nearly  in  the  cen- 
ter. This  portion  contains  a  large 
number  of  relatively  small  (thin) 
muscles  which  run  in  many  different 
directions.  In  beef,  the  chuck  is  made 
into  arm  and  blade  roasts  or  steaks. 
The  neck  portion  usually  is  made  into 
ground  beef  or  boneless  stew  meat. 

Arm  cuts  resemble  round  steak  in 
shape  and  also  usually  have  only  a 
single  round  bone.  However,  the  arm 
cut  has  a  distinctive  round  muscle 
close  to  the  bone  which  also  is  darker 
red  than  the  other  lean  and  contains  a 
noticeable  amount  of  heavy  streaks  of 
connective  tissue.  A  similar  muscle 
is  not  found  in  cuts  from  the  round. 
Blade  cuts  contain  a  portion  of  the 
shoulder  blade.  The  first  blade  cuts 
include  the  same  muscles  which  make 
up  the  very  desirable  ribeye  roll. 
With  just  a  litde  practice,  these  can 
be  removed  and  made  into  delicious 
steaks. 

To  facilitate  carving  and  serving, 
the  arm  and  blade  portions  frequendy 
are  boned  and  further  separated  into 
sections  in  which  the  muscles  run  in 
about  the  same  direction. 

97 


IAMB  CHART 
Wholesale  Cuts  of  Lamb  and  Their  Bone  Structure 


Retail  Cuts  of  Lamb  and  Where  They  Come  From 


i.  grinding  or  cubing  n 


JUQilltqiUf  -; 


.  WltiSBfeilvoff 


"tiSiiiiuateiin  '>-- 


itpijIIIIPIiiaisti 


IS 


H 


5ilsiSllSlSfi^Bi^^B«i^B 


autouiC 


yiiii 


lohirjboM      AiUletlDol/bieM' 


,  LOliiTtMit 


11MV 

i^fyajiaoiii 


111 


li^S  iH 


"mfmm 


^   "  J  %£: 


;.nr,,.jn  SnM.a»r  Rji!^  5h 


Ste, 


HgBPlbjeai)    Lanttjfttf^ttjw*    (Small  Pt«t1 


■^^g     $] 


98 


USDA  meat  grader  rolling  a  Choice  veal  carcass.  The  grade  and  the  letters  "USDA"  are  enclosed 
in  a  shield  and  the  word  "veal"  also  is  included. 


In  lamb,  two  or  three  blade  chops 
and  arm  chops  usually  are  removed 
from  the  shoulder  and  the  remainder 
is  then  sold  as  a  bone-in  or  boneless 
shoulder  roast.  The  neck  may  or  may 
not  be  removed. 

In  pork,  this  forepart  produces  two 
major  cuts — the  lower  part  is  the 
picnic  shoulder  (it  is  not  a  picnic  ham) 
and  the  upper  part  is  the  Boston  butt. 

The  Boston  butt's  inside  portion, 
when  cured  and  smoked,  is  the  very 


desirable  smoked  shoulder  butt — more 
frequendy  referred  to  as  a  "  westphalia" 
or  "daisy."  The  cured  and  smoked 
jowl  is  sometimes  termed  a  "bacon 
square."  It  is  satisfactory  for  seasoning 
but  is  not  a  good  substitute  for  real 
bacon. 

Quality  Factors.  Learning  how  to 
select  for  quality — tenderness,  juici- 
ness, and  flavor — is  also  an  important 
aspect  of  meat  selection.  The  most 
reliable   factors   for    indicating    meat 

99 


U.S.  Prime,  above.— Prime  gride  beef  it  the  ultimate  in  tenderness,  juiciness,  and  flavor.  It  is 
produced  from  young  animals  and  has  a  liberal  amount  of  marbling.  Most  Prime  beef  is  used  by 
exclusive  hotels  and  restaurants,  but  it  is  also  available  in  some  retail  stores.  U.S.  Choice,  below. — 
Choice  is  the  grade  in  greatest  supply  and  is  the  one  most  commonly  sold  in  retail  stores.  It  has 
slightly  less  marbling  than  Prime  but  still  is  of  very  high  quality. 


100 


U.S.  Good,  above.— Good  grade  beef  often  pleases  thrifty  shoppers  because  it  is  somewhat  more 
lean  than  the  higher  grades.  Some  stores  sell  this  quality  of  beef  under  their  own  or  a  packer 
brand  rather  than  under  the  USDA  grade  name.  U.S.  Standard,  below. — Standard  grade  beef  has 
a  high  proportion  of  lean  meat  and  very  little  fat.  Because  it  comes  from  young  animals — the  same 
as  Prime,  Choice,  and  Good— beef  of  this  grade  is  fairly  tender. 


101 


U.S.  Commercial.— Commercial  grade  beef  is  produced  only  from  mature  animals.  It  has  a  very 
good  flavor,  but  most  cuts  require  long,  slow  cooking  with  moist  heat  to  make  them  tender.  In 
some  respects,  Commercial  beef  resembles  Prime  and  Choice.  For  example,  notice  that  it  is 
similar  to  those  grades  in  the  amount  of  marbling.  This  is  a  good  reason  consumers  should  rely 
on  the  Federal  grade  rather  than  on  their  own  ability  to  judge  quality. 


quality  are  the  age  of  the  animal  from 
which  it  came,  the  color  and  texture 
of  the  lean,  and  the  amount  of  mar- 
bling— small  deposits  of  fat  within  the 
lean.  Fortunately,  today's  consumers 
need  not  be  experts  in  judging  the 
quality  of  beef,  veal,  calf,  and  lamb 
since  about  80  percent  of  the  beef,  60 
percent  of  the  lamb,  and  smaller  but 
significant  amounts  of  the  veal  and 
calf  sold  at  retail  have  been  identified 
for  quality  by  USDA  meat  graders. 
This  is  a  voluntary  service  which  is 
supported  entirely  by  fees  collected 
from  those  who  use  the  service. 

Standards  used  for  grading  include 
the  best  information  available  for  re- 
flecting differences  in  quality,  and 
Federal  meat  graders  are  highly  skilled 
in  applying  them.  They  grade  only 
carcasses  or  wholesale  cuts  because 
quality  differences  cannot  be  appraised 
accurately  in  retail  cuts. 

102 


When  meat  is  graded,  a  shield- 
shaped  grademark  enclosing  the  letters 
"USDA"  and  the  appropriate  grade 
name — such  as  Prime,  Choice,  or 
Good — is  applied  to  the  meat  as  a 
long,  ribbonlike  imprint.  Thus,  one 
or  more  grademarks  will  appear  on 
most  retail  cuts.  This  stamping  is  done 
with  harmless,  purple,  vegetable  color- 
ing. When  the  grademark  is  applied  to 


YIELD  GRADE  STAMP 


veal,  calf,  yearling  mutton,  or  mutton,  Expected  Yield  of  Cuts  From  Typical  Carcasses 

the  Class  name  (veal,  calf,  etc.)  is  also  Percentage  of  carcass 

included  with  the  grade  name.  Yield  *rade                                     weight 

USDA  meat  grades  are  applied  uni-  2:::::::::'.:::'.:::::::::::::::    ff;2°rmore 

formly  in  all  parts  of  the  country  and     |---: '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.\'.'.'.'.'.'.\'.    7g!| 

at  all  times  of  the  year — regardless  of  5'. '. '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'. '.'.'.'.'.'.         '.'.'.'.'.'. '.    63^6  or  less 

the  supply.  Therefore,  a  USDA  Choice 

rib  roast,  for  instance,  will  be  equally 

delicious  no  matter  where  or  when  you  On  a  600-pbund  carcass  the  4.6 

buy  it.  percent  difference  in  yields   of  cuts 

There    are    eight    USDA    quality  between  yield  grades  means  a  differ- 

grades  for  beef,  six  for  veal  and  calf,  ence  of  nearly  28  pounds   of  meat. 

and  five  for  lamb  and  yearling  mutton.  At  1968  retail  prices  this  reflected  a 

The  top  three  grades — Prime,  Choice,  value  difference  of  about  $3.60  per 

and  Good— are  the  same  for  all.  The  hundredweight  (cwt.) — or  $21.60  on 

remaining  grades  for  beef  are  Stand-  a  600-pound  carcass  or  a  1,000-pound 

ard,  Commercial,  Utility,  Cutter,  and  live  animal.  A  difference  of  two  yield 

Canner.  For  veal  and  calf  they  are  grades,  such  as  between  Yield  Grade  2 

Standard,  Utility,  and  Cull,  and  for  and  Yield  Grade  4,  would  mean  a 

lamb,  yearling  mutton,   and  mutton  value  difference  of  $7.20  per  cwt.,  or 

they  are  Utility  and  Cull.  The  Utility,  $43.20  on  a  600-pound  carcass.  The 

Cutter,  Canner,  and  Cull  grades  are  beef  ribs  from  Yield   Grade   2   and 

generally  used  in  processed  meat  items  Yield  Grade  4  carcasses  show  obvious 

such  as  frankfurters.  differences  in  the  amount  of  external 

Yield  Grades.  Beef  carcasses  of  the  fat  and  in  the  size  of  the  ribeye  muscle, 

same  quality  grade — Choice,  for  in-  Consumers  should  not  confuse  the 

stance,  can  differ  gready  in  value  due  shield-shaped    grade    stamps    which 

to  differences  in  their  yields  of  usable  identify  the  quality  of  the  meat  or 

meat.  These  result  mosdy  from  dif-  its  cutability  (yield  grade)  with  the 

ferences  in  the  amount  of  fat  trimmed  round  inspection  stamp  which  certifies 

off  in  making  retail  cuts,  but  they  are  its  wholesomeness.  Since  Federal  grad- 

also   affected    by   the   thickness   and  ing  is  voluntary,  there  is  no  assurance 

plumpness  of  the  muscles.  that    meat    advertised    as    "federally 

To  identify  carcasses  for  these  differ-  inspected"  is  of  any  particular  grade, 

ences,  USDA  developed  a  system  of  On  the  other  hand,  all  meat  that  is 

five  yield  grades  which  are  designated  federally  graded  has  passed  an  inspec- 

by  numbers — 1  to  5.  Yield  Grade  1  tion  for  wholesomeness. 

identifies  carcasses  with  the  highest  Many    packers    and    retailers    use 

yields  of  cuts  and  Yield  Grade  5  those  their  own  brand  names  to  identify  or 

with  the  lowest.  advertise  the  various  kinds  of  meat 

Yield  grades  are  determined  sepa-  that  they  merchandise.  Some  of  these 

rately  from  quality  grades,  and  car-  brands  may  reflect  levels  of  quality 

casses  can  be  graded  for  quality  or  similar  to  the  USDA  grades,  but  there 

yield  or  both.  Yield  grades  are  of  no  is  no  assurance  or  requirement  that 

particular  concern  to  consumers  who  they  do  so.  The  basis  for  these  brands 

buy  only  retail  cuts  which  are  trimmed  and  the  uniformity  with  which  they 

of  excess  fat  before  being  placed  in  the  are  applied  are  governed  entirely  by 

meat  counter.  But  they  can  be  very  the  company  which  uses  them, 

helpful  to  the  person  who  buys  beef  in  Buying  Pork.  In  contrast  with  other 

carcass  form — a  side  or  a  quarter — for  meats,  USDA  pork  carcass  grades  are 

his  home  freezer.  not  intended  to  identify  differences  in 

The  following  tabulation  shows  the  quality  to  consumers.  They  are  similar 

expected  yields  of  retail  cuts  from  typi-  to  the  yield  grades  for  beef  in  that 

cal  carcasses — or  sides — for  each  of  the  they  identify  carcasses  for  differences 

yield  grades.  in  yields  of  trimmed  wholesale  cuts. 

103 


FORK  CHART 
Wholesale  Cuts  of  Pork  and  Their  Bone  Structure 


-- 


Retail  Cuts  of  Pork  and  Where  They  Come  From 


fc.YK 


T*¥**:  ^TsjfiffSr' 


104 


Although  there  is  less  difference  in 
the  tenderness,  juiciness,  and  flavor 
of  pork  than  of  beef,  there  are  wide 
differences  in  other  factors  that  are 
important  to  consumers.  Therefore, 
consumers  need  to  pay  close  attention 
to  what  they  select.  A  high  proportion 
of  lean  is  probably  the  most  important 
factor.  This  can  be  assured  by  selecting 
cuts  which  carry  lntle  fat  and  which 
have  plump,  full  muscles. 

Cuts  which  contain  several  muscles, 
like  rib  end  loin  roasts  and  Boston 
butts,  also  can  vary  greatly  in  the 
amount  of  fat  between  the  muscles. 
Picnic  shoulders  likewise  vary  in  the 
amount  of  fat  over  the  outside,  that 
is,  under  the  skin.  Hams  and  picnic 
shoulders  with  short  shanks  are  pref- 
erable. In  high  quality  fresh  pork 
the  lean  will  be  firm,  grayish  pink  or 
darker  in  color,  and  it  will  have  at 
least  a  slight  amount  of  marbling — 
more  is  better.  Soft,  pale,  watery  lean 
is  definitely  less  desirable. 

A  high  percentage  of  pork  is  sold 
as  processed  products.  This  processing 
may  include  curing,  smoking,  cooking, 
and  canning. 

Pork  occasionally  contains  trichinae 
(tiny  parasites),  which  can  be  trans- 
mitted to  humans  producing  a  disease 
known  as  trichinosis.  Therefore,  in 
federally  inspected  plants,  processed 
pork  products  that  might  be  eaten 
without  any  further  cooking  must  be 
heated  to  an  internal  temperature  of 
at  least  137°  F.  That  temperature 
kills  any  trichinae  that  may  be  present. 

This  requirement  makes  the  possi- 
bility of  anyone  contracting  trichinosis 
extremely  remote. 

Because  pork  is  processed  in  so 
many  different  ways,  consumers  should 
read  the  labels  very  carefully.  This 
will  permit  them  to  better  compare 
prices  and  also  guide  them  in  using 
it  properly. 

"Cured"  pork  has  been  treated  with 
curing  ingredients — primarily  salt, 
sodium  or  potassium  nitrate  and/or 
nitrite,  and  sugar.  Salt  is  used  for 
flavor  and  as  a  preservative,  the  nitrate 
and  nitrite  combine  with  the  meat 
pigments  to  develop  the  typical  red 


color  of  cured  meat,  and  the  sugar  is 
added  for  flavor.  These  ingredients 
usually  are  applied  to  the  meat  in  a 
brine  solution.  In  hams,  the  brine 
usually  is  distributed  by  pumping  it 
into  the  arteries.  This  permits  the 
curing  to  be  done  very  quickly.  But 
it  also  produces  a  very  mild  flavor. 
Pork  that  is  "cured"  only  may  also  be 
called  "corned." 

In  federally  inspected  plants,  if  the 
curing  results  in  an  increase  in  weight 
of  up  to  10  percent,  the  pork  must  be 
labeled  with  the  words  "water  added." 
If  the  weight  is  increased  by  more  than 
10  percent,  it  is  labeled  as  "imitation." 
"Smoked"  means  that  the  pork  has 
been  subjected  to  actual  smoke.  Arti- 
ficial or  natural  smoke  flavorings  also 
are  permissible,  but  these  must  be 
indicated  on  the  label. 

Cured  pork  is  frequently  labeled  as 
"cooked,"  "fully  cooked,"  "ready-to- 
eat,"  or  "ready-to-serve,"  etc.  These 
terms  mean  that  the  pork  has  been 
heated  to  develop  the  typical  color, 
flavor,  and  texture  associated  with 
thorough  cooking.  Cuts  that  are  not 
identified  with  a  "fully  cooked"  or  a 
similar  label  require  cooking  before 
serving. 

Hams  that  have  been  long-cured 
and  aged  also  are  produced  in  many 
parts  of  the  country.  After  curing, 
these  hams  usually  are  heavily  smoked 
and  then  aged  to  develop  a  very 
distinctive  flavor.  During  aging,  the 
hams  also  shrink  in  weight.  Meat 
packers  in  Smithfield,  Va.,  produce 
such  a  specialty  ham  which  is  com- 
monly referred  to  as  "Smithfield 
ham."  These  hams  are  "long-cut" — 
that  is,  they  include  part  of  the  sirloin 
region  normally  left  on  the  loin.  They 
also  have  long  shanks  and  very  litde  of 
the  skin  and  fat  are  removed  from  the 
outside. 

Normally  cured  and  smoked  hams 
are  also  available  with  none,  some,  or 
all  of  the  bones  removed  and  with 
part  or  all  of  the  skin  and  part  or 
nearly  all  of  the  fat  removed. 

During  recent  years,  packers  have 
produced  an  entirely  boneless,  skin- 
less,   cured   and   smoked   ham   from 

105 


which  substantially  all  of  the  fat  has 
been  removed.  This  has  become  a  very 
popular  item  because  of  its  convenient 
size,  its  ease  of  preparation  and  serv- 
ing, and  its  almost  complete  freedom 
from  waste. 

The  canned  cured  hams  and  picnic 
shoulders  are  boneless  and  skinless  and 
usually  have  had  a  substantial  amount 
of  the  fat  removed.  They  may  be 
smoked  or  unsmoked  and  may  contain 
added  materials  such  as  champagne  or 
honey.  These  items  are  also  very  popu- 
lar because  of  their  convenience  of 
serving  and  lack  of  waste.  At  the  time 
of  canning,  these  meats  may  have  an 
increase  in  weight  of  up  to  8  percent 
over  their  weight  before  curing.  The 
label  on  the  can  will  indicate  whether 
refrigeration  is  necessary. 

Most  cured  hams  and  sliced  bacon 
are  sold  under  packer  brands.  By  care- 
ful comparison  of  brands  over  an  ex- 
tended period  of  time,  a  family  may 
find  one  or  more  which  suit  them  best. 

Sausages.  A  mealtime  and  snacktime 
favorite  of  millions  of  Americans,  sau- 
sages include  a  wide  assortment  of 
seasoned  and  processed  meat  products. 
Probably  the  best  known  of  these  items 
are  fresh  pork  sausage  and  the  ever 
popular  frankfurter  and  bologna.  Sau- 
sage products  have  litde  or  no  waste, 
can  be  prepared  quickly  and  easily, 
and  served  in  a  variety  of  ways — as 
sandwiches,  snacks,  salads,  main  dishes, 
and  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Sausage  making  originated  as  a 
means  of  preserving  meat  and  goes 
back  as  far  as  recorded  history.  Many 
of  our  present-day  sausages  are  named 
for  the  place  of  their  origin.  For  exam- 
ple, the  frankfurter  originated  in  Frank- 
furt, Germany,  and  bologna  originated 
in  Bologna,  Italy.  Lebanon  bologna, 
however,  is  an  American  product,  orig- 
inating in  Lebanon,  Pa. 

Sausage  products  are  processed  in 
several  ways — fresh,  cured  and  dried, 
and  cured  and  cooked.  Most  sausages 
are  made  from  varying  combinations 
of  beef,  pork,  and  veal,  although  meat 
byproducts  like  heart  meat,  tongue 
meat,  and  tripe  also  are  used.  In  addi- 
tion, some  items  include  cereal  or  non- 
106 


fat  dry  milk  as  extenders.  Most  sausage 
products  processed  in  federally  in- 
spected plants  cannot  contain  more 
than  Zy2  percent  of  these  extenders 
without  being  labeled  as  imitation. 
However,  some  loaf  items  may  contain 
more  than  3%  percent  extenders — 
including  such  other  ingredients  as 
pickles,  olives,  or  macaroni.  Addition 
of  byproducts  and  cereals  generally 
tend  to  lower  the  quality  of  sausages, 
but  many  people  feel  that  the  addition 
of  small  amounts  of  nonfat  dry  milk 
makes  the  quality  of  some  sausages 
more  desirable. 

Federal  meat  inspection  regulations 
require  that  the  ingredients  used  in  a 
sausage  product  be  listed  on  the  label 
in  descending  order  of  predominance. 

Loaf  items  are  cooked  in  molds  or 
loaf  pans  and  then  sliced  and  packaged 
for  sale.  Practically  all  other  sausage 
products  are  stuffed  into  casings  or 
canned. 

Some  sausages  are  dried  during 
processing.  Dried  sausages  like  pep- 
peroni,  thuringer,  and  dry  salami  are 
quite  firm,  very  flavorful,  and  nor- 
mally do  not  need  to  be  refrigerated. 

Many  seasonings  are  used  in  making 
sausages.  Salt  is  always  used  and 
serves  as  a  flavoring  ingredient  and  a 
preservative.  Other  common  season- 
ings are  sugar,  pepper,  sage,  mace, 
ginger,  nutmeg,  and  garlic.  Some 
sausages  are  characterized  by  a  par- 
ticular seasoning  ingredient.  For  ex- 
ample, cooked  salami  contains  whole 
pepper  corns. 

Variety  meats — sometimes  referred 
to  as  byproducts — include  items  like 
hearts,  livers,  tongues,  tails,  sweet- 
breads, kidneys,  brains,  tripe,  and 
chitterlings.  In  general,  these  items 
are  in  much  greater  demand  in  other 
countries — Europe,  in  particular — and 
so  a  rather  substantial  proportion  of 
many  of  these  items  is  exported.  This 
is  somewhat  difficult  to  understand 
because  livers,  tongues,  hearts,  and 
kidneys,  in  particular,  are  all  highly 
nutritious  and,  except  for  calf  liver, 
usually  are  quite  reasonable  in  price. 

Buying  for  the  Freezer.  Freezing  is  an 
excellent  way  to  preserve  most  kinds 


of  meat,  and  families  which  raise  their 
own  livestock  and  other  produce  may 
obtain  substantial  savings  by  renting 
one  or  more  lockers  in  a  freezer  locker 
plant  or  from  having  a  locker  plant 
process  their  meat  for  storage  in  a 
home  freezer. 

However,  the  great  majority  of 
consumers  must  purchase  all  of  their 
meat.  For  these  families,  there  may 
be  less  monetary  advantage  in  owning 
a  freezer  but  this  may  be  offset  by 
other  factors  such  as  the  convenience 
of  having  a  ready  supply  of  meat  on 
hand  at  all  times. 

Families  having  limited  freezer 
space — such  as  in  a  combination 
refrigerator-freezer — usually  will  be 
limited  to  retail  stores  as  a  source  of 
supply  but  by  careful  management 
they  can  generally  arrange  to  have  a 
reasonable  assortment  of  different 
kinds  of  meat  on  hand  most  of  the 
time.  And,  by  buying  "on  special," 
they  can  also  make  considerable  sav- 
ings. However,  this  approach  may  re- 
quire rewrapping  meats  in  a  stronger 
material  and  taking  care  that  only 
relatively  small  amounts  of  meat  are 
frozen  at  any  one  time.  If  they  desire 
to  do  so,  families  with  larger  freezers 
usually  will  be  able  to  purchase  their 
meat  from  specialized  dealers  such  as 
locker  plants  or  freezer  provisioners. 

Buying  from  a  freezer  provisioner 
or  locker  plant  usually  involves  pur- 
chasing a  side,  quarter,  or  wholesale 


cut.  This  will  require  less  effort  on 
your  part  than  buying  retail  cuts  and 
freezing  them  yourself,  since  all  of  the 
wrapping  and  freezing  will  be  done 
by  the  dealer.  Other  advantages  of 
buying  from  a  locker  plant  or  freezer 
provisioner  are  that  the  meat  can  be 
frozen  more  rapidly  and  you  can  indi- 
cate how  long  you  want  the  meat  aged 
and  how  it  is  to  be  cut.  However, 
buying  meat  as  a  side,  quarter,  or 
wholesale  cut  may  result  in  your 
getting  more  of  some  cuts  than  you 
would  like — or  even  some  cuts  that 
you  might  prefer  not  to  have  at  all. 
Buying  retail  cuts  for  freezing  permits 
you  to  buy  only  the  cuts  you  actually 
want. 

Making  a  valid  comparison  of  the 
cost  of  buying  meat  in  the  form  of 
retail  cuts  or  as  a  side,  quarter,  or 
wholesale  cut  can  be  very  frustrating 
to  most  consumers.  This  is  because 
the  average  family  has  little  or  no 
knowledge  about  the  actual  propor- 
tion of  the  different  cuts — as  well  as 
the  amount  of  fat  and  bone — that 
they  will  get  from  a  side  of  beef. 
However,  the  following  example  shows 
how  such  a  comparison  can  be  made. 
Let's  assume  that  you  can  buy  a  300- 
pound  side  of  beef  (USDA  Choice, 
Yield  Grade  3)  for  65  cents  per 
pound — cut,  wrapped,  and  frozen. 
The  total  cost  would  be  $195  (300 
pounds  x  65|£=$195). 

But,  as  indicated  in  the  table  below, 


Retail  Cuts 


Approximate  Weight,  Pounds 
Percent  of  (from  300  Local  Prices 

Side  Weight  lb.  side)  per  lb. 

(Yield  Grade  3) 


Retail  Value 


Round  Steak 

11 
3 

5 
8 
6 
9 
6 
11 
11 
3 

33 
9 

15 
24 
18 
27 
18 
33 
33 
9 

X                                    = 

Rump  Roast  (boneless) 

Porterhouse,  T-bone,  club 

X     -                              = 

v                                 = 

Sirloin  Steak 

v                               = 

Rib  Roast 

X                                 = 

Chuck  Blade  Roast 

x                                 = 

Chuck  Arm  Roast 

v                                 = 

X                                 = 

Stew  Meat 

x                                 = 

X                                    = 

Total  Retail  Cuts 

Waste  (fat,  bone,  shrink- 
age)  

73 
27 

219 
81 

TOTAL 

100 

300 

TOTAL  RETAIL  VALUE 
AVERAGE  RETAIL 
PRICE  PER  LB. 

107 


such  beef  normally  will  yield  only 
about  73  percent  of  its  weight  in 
trimmed  cuts  (when  the  cutting  and 
trimming  are  done  as  usual  in  retail 
operations).  Therefore,  300  pounds 
x  73  percent=219  actual  pounds  of 
cuts.  And  the  actual  average  cost  of 
the  cuts  would  be  89  cents  per  pound 
($195-j-219  pounds=89)4  per  pound). 

Now,  using  the  table  below,  let's 
see  how  you  could  compare  this  cost 
with  that  of  buying  an  equivalent 
amount  of  retail  cuts.  To  determine 
the  total  cost  of  such  an  assortment 
of  retail  cuts  simply  insert  retail  prices 
per  pound  for  each  cut  in  the  column 
headed  "Local  prices,"  multiply  each 
price  by  the  weight  shown  in  the 
second  column,  and  enter  the  answer 
in  the  last  column  headed  "Retail 
value."  The  total  of  this  column  will 
be  the  total  cost  of  219  pounds  of 
retail  cuts  in  the  same  proportion  as 
would  be  obtained  from  a  300-pound 
side.  (In  the  example,  this  would  com- 
pare with  the  $195  total  cost  of  the 
300-pound  side.)  The  average  cost  of 
the  cuts  per  pound  would  be  deter- 
mined by  dividing  the  total  cost  by 
219  pounds.  (In  the  example,  this 
would  compare  with  the  89  cents  per 
pound.)  For  additional  information  on 
this  subject,  the  reader  is  referred  to 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  Home 
and  Garden  Bulletin  No.  166,  "How 
to  Buy  Meat  for  Your  Freezer." 

Families  purchasing  meat  from  a 
locker  plant  or  a  freezer  provisioner 
should  make  sure  that  the  supplier  has 
a  well-established  reputation  for  hon- 
esty and  for  fairness.  Although  most 
businessmen  are  honest,  there  are  al- 
ways a  few  who  will  take  advantage  of 
the  uninformed.  In  this  connection, 
one  of  the  practices  that  consumers 
should  beware  of  is  known  as  "bait 
and  switch." 

This  takes  the  form  of  offering  beef, 
for  instance,  at  very  low  prices  and 
sometimes  advertising  this  as  "U.S. 
Choice"  or  as  "U.S.  Prime."  Having 
attracted  a  potential  customer  to  his 
plant  with  this  "bait,"  the  dealer  will 
show  him  the  advertised  beef.  Al- 
though it  may  be  of  the  quality  grade 

108 


advertised,  this  "bait"  carcass  will 
usually  be  a  specially  selected  specimen 
that  is  very  fat  and  wasty. 

However,  hanging  alongside  will  be 
another  obviously  leaner  carcass  which 
the  dealer  then  persuades  the  customer 
is  what  he  really  should  buy.  But,  the 
price  of  the  leaner  beef  will  be  much 
higher  even  though  it  really  may  be 
lower  in  quality  and  actually  have  cost 
the  dealer  less  than  the  normal  whole- 
sale price  for  the  advertised  grade. 
That  is  the  "switch." 

In  most  cases,  the  leaner  carcass  will 
not  carry  a  USDA  grade  but  the  dealer 
will  assure  the  customer  that  it  has 
been  inspected  by  USDA  (hoping  that 
this  may  make  him  think  that  it  also 
has  been  graded)  or  that  it  rates  a 
"Fancy,"  "Supreme"  or  some  other 
likely  sounding  "grade"  name. 

Since  the  customer  usually  is  not 
present  to  make  an  inventory  of  the 
various  cuts  at  the  time  his  meat  is 
being  cut,  it  also  is  quite  easy,  for 
instance,  for  such  a  plant  to  fail  to 
deliver  a  portion  of  an  order,  to  sub- 
stitute a  lower  grade  of  meat  than 
ordered,  or  to  charge  for  excess  weight. 

Customers  should  remember  that 
the  only  official  USDA  grades  for 
meat  are  those  listed  previously.  Con- 
sumers also  should  remember  that  a 
very  high  percentage  of  the  beef  and 
lamb  that  qualifies  for  Choice  or  Prime 
is  actually  graded  and  is  readily  availa- 
ble at  all  times.  So,  if  they  want  this 
quality  of  beef  or  lamb  they  should  insist 
the  grade  stamp  be  left  on  the  cuts. 

Some  dealers  also  advertise  a  "beef 
bundle"  or  a  "steak  package."  Unless 
these  advertisements  indicate  specifi- 
cally the  grade  of  the  meat  and  the 
kind  and  amount  of  the  various  cuts 
included,  the  average  family  would  be 
well  advised  to  steer  clear  of  such 
"deals."  They  should  also  beware  of 
advertisements  which  ofTer  "something 
for  nothing" — bargains  which  are  too 
sensational  to  be  realistic.  No  dealer 
can  really  afford  to  give  meat  away  or 
to  sell  it  at  a  loss,  and  reputable  ones 
will  not  pretend  to  do  so. 

As  pointed  out  earlier,  there  has 
been  a  retail  sales  value  difference  of 


These  rib  cuts  from  beef  carcasses  represent  two  yield  grades— the  rib  above  comes  from  a  Yield 
Grade  2  carcass.  The  rib  below  obviously  has  more  fat;  it  is  from  a  Yield  Grade  4  carcass. 


109 


about  $3.60  per  cwt.  between  typical 
carcasses — or  sides — of  adjacent  yield 
grades.  However,  in  wholesale  trading 
up  to  this  time,  the  price  differences 
between  yield  grades  have  been  sub- 
stantially less  than  this.  Therefore,  in 
purchasing  a  side  of  beef,  for  instance, 
it  should  be  best  to  purchase  as  high  a 
yield  grade  as  possible  since  the  prices 
charged  should  be  in  line  with  current 
wholesale  prices.  However,  this  may 
not  be  the  case. 

For  example,  in  mid- 1968  a  freezer 
provisioner  in  the  Washington,  D.C., 
area  quoted  U.S.  Choice  heifer  sides 
at  53  cents  per  pound  and  U.S.  Choice 
steer  sides  at  69  cents  per  pound.  When 
asked  about  this  difference  in  price  for 
the  same  quality  grade,  the  salesman 
explained  that  the  steer  sides  were 
Yield  Grade  1,  2,  or  3  and  that  the 
heifer  sides  were  Yield  Grade  4  or  5. 

Subsequent  examination  revealed 
there  was  a  substantial  difference  in 
cutability  (yield  of  cuts)  between  the 
steer  and  heifer  beef,  but  that  none  of 
it  had  actually  been  yield  graded. 
Furthermore,  at  that  time  the  differ- 
ence in  the  wholesale  price  of  these  two 
kinds  of  carcasses  was  much  less  than 
16  cents  per  pound. 

This  same  company  also  was  selling 
U.S.  Prime  steer  sides  at  99  cents  per 
pound — 30  cents  per  pound  more  than 
the  U.S.  Choice  steer  sides.  At  that 
time,  the  difference  in  the  wholesale 
price  between  such  Prime  and  Choice 
beef  was  only  2  cents  per  pound.  In 
beef  of  the  same  yield  grade  there  is 
seldom  more  than  2  cents  per  pound 
difference  between  the  wholesale  prices 
for  Prime  and  Choice  or  Choice  and 
Good. 

The  foregoing  discussion  is  not  in- 
tended to  discourage  consumers  from 
freezing  meat  or  from  owning  home 
freezers.  Rather,  it  is  intended  to  show 
consumers  how  they  can  make  realistic 
comparisons  of  different  methods  of 
buying  meat  and  also  to  caution  them 
about  the  practices  of  some  unscrupu- 
lous suppliers.  Freezing  is  an  excellent 
means  of  preserving  meat  and  other 
foods,  and  freezers  are  a  very  conven- 
ient method  of  storage. 

110 


Care,  Storing,  and  Freezing.  Meat  is 
usually  the  most  expensive  item  in  the 
food  budget  and  it  is  perishable,  so  it 
is  important  to  use  care  not  only  in 
selection  at  the  market  but  also  in  use 
down  to  the  last  bit  of  leftover. 

Keep  meat  clean  and  cold— in  the 
refrigerator  (35°  to  40°  F.)  or  in  the 
freezer  (at  0°  F.  or  below)  until  it  is 
cooked.  The  cold  temperature  slows 
down  changes  that  affect  eating  qual- 
ity and  cause  food  spoilage.  Generally, 
the  lower  the  temperature,  the  slower 
the  change.  A  few  meat  items  may  be 
held  at  room  temperature — canned 
luncheon  meats,  certain  sausages,  some 
small  canned  hams,  and  some  dry- 
cured  hams. 

For  short-time  refrigerator  storage, 
place  fresh  meat  in  the  special  meat 
compartment,  or  in  the  coldest  part  of 
your  refrigerator  (not  the  ice  cube 
maker)  as  soon  as  possible  after  pur- 
chase. Prepackaged  meat  may  usually 
be  refrigerated  for  1  to  2  days  in  its 
original  (transparent)  wrapper.  If  you 
plan  to  keep  the  meat  refrigerated  for 
longer  than  2  days,  you  should  rewrap 
the  meat  loosely  so  air  will  circulate 
and  dry  the  meat  surface  slighdy,  as 
bacteria  grow  less  quickly  upon  a  dry 
surface. 

Fresh  beef,  veal,  lamb,  and  pork— An 
the  form  of  roasts,  chops,  cutlets,  and 
steaks — may  usually  be  held  3  to  5 
days  in  the  refrigerator  before  there  is 
evident  loss  of  palatability  or  flavor. 
Cured  and  smoked  meats,  like  bacon, 
bologna,  hams,  sausage,  and  frank- 
furters, usually  may  be  stored  for  7 
days  in  the  refrigerator.  Fresh  sausage, 
ground  meats,  variety  meats,  and  stew 
meats  should  be  used  within  1  to  2  days 
because  they  are  especially  perishable. 

To  prepare  fresh  meat  for  freezing, 
remove  excess  fat  and  divide  the  meat 
into  individual  or  meal-size  portions. 
Boneless  cuts  save  storage  space  and 
are  not  likely  to  puncture  the  wrapping 
material.  Wrap  meat  tightly  in  a 
moisture  and  vapor  resistant  packag- 
ing material  like  foil  or  plastic.  Proper 
packaging  prevents  foods  from  drying 
out  and  prevents  air  from  entering  the 
package.  Separate  individual  portions, 


like  chops  and  hamburger  patties, 
with  double  layers  of  waxed  paper  or 
foil  to  prevent  them  from  freezing 
together.  Label  and  date  packages. 

Place  your  meat  promptly  in  a 
freezer,  or  in  a  refrigerator's  freezer 
section  where  a  temperature  of  0°F. 
or  lower  is  maintained.  Turn  your 
freezer  control  to  the  coldest  position 
to  speed  freezing  and  help  prevent 
warming  of  any  other  stored  frozen 
food.  Limit  the  amount  of  food  to  be 
frozen  at  one  time  to  2  pounds  per 
cubic  foot  of  the  total  freezer  space.  If 
your  freezer  will  not  maintain  a 
temperature  as  low  as  0°F.,  the  meat 
held  there  must  be  used  considerably 
sooner  than  the  freezer  times  that  are 
given  below. 

Frozen  meat,  if  properly  packaged, 
frozen,  and  stored,  may  be  kept  for 
long  periods  with  little  change  in  its 
eating  quality.  For  best  eating,  use 
beef  and  lamb  roasts  and  steaks  within 
12  months;  pork,  calf,  and  veal  roasts 
within  8  months;  lamb,  pork,  and  veal 
chops  or  cutlets,  and  variety  meats 
within  4  months;  ground  and  stew 
meats  within  3  months;  and  use  fresh 
sausage  within  2  months. 

Freezing  of  cured  meats  is  not 
recommended  because  seasonings  add- 
ed during  curing  accelerate ,  the  de- 
velopment of  rancidity.  If  cured  meats 
are  frozen,  they  should  be  used  within 
a  month  or  two. 

Frozen  meat  may  be  cooked  with  or 
without  thawing.  Frozen  meat  takes 
about  1%  to  \y2  times  as  long  to  cook 
as  thawed  or  fresh  meat.  Whenever 
possible,  frozen  meat  should  be  thawed 
in  its  wrappings  in  the  refrigerator  and 
cooked  soon  after  thawing.  However, 
thawed  meat  is  no  more  perishable 
than  unfrozen  meat.  Thawed  meat 
may  be  refrozen,  if  necessary,  but  it 
may  be  less  tender  and  juicy. 

Cooked  meats  should  be  covered  or 
wrapped  and  refrigerated  promptly. 
A  rapid  cooling  in  the  refrigerator 
helps  prevent  bacterial  growth  and 
spoilage.  Gravy  and  meat  broth  are 
highly  perishable  and  so  should  be 
refrigerated  quickly  and  stored  only 
for  1  or  2  days. 


When  refrigerated,  cooked  meat  is 
best  if  used  within  2  days.  To  keep 
cooked  meat  longer,  remove  meat  from 
bones  (to  save  storage  space),  wrap 
tightly  in  moisture  and  vapor  resistant 
material,  and  freeze  quickly.  Cooked 
meat,  as  well  as  many  cooked  combi- 
nation dishes  containing  beef  or  veal, 
can  be  stored  in  the  freezer  at  0°  F.  for 
2  or  3  months.  When  you  want  to  use 
frozen  cooked  casseroles  or  stews,  you 
can  heat  them  from  the  frozen  state 
without  thawing  first. 

Guidelines  for  Cooking  Meat.  The  key 
to  success  in  cooking  meat  is  to  use 
medium  to  low  temperatures  and  to 
cook  it  for  as  short  a  time  as  possible. 
When  prepared  in  this  manner,  beef, 
veal,  lamb,  and  pork  are  juicy  with 
maximum  tenderness.  The  aroma  from 
meat  cooked  at  low  temperatures  is 
more  pleasant  and  the  color  is  more 
even  than  that  of  meat  cooked  at  high 
temperatures.  Another  advantage  of 
low  to  moderate  cooking  temperatures 
is  that  there  is  more  meat  to  serve 
because  of  the  smaller  losses  through 
evaporation,  shrinkage,  and  drippings. 

The  degree  of  doneness  of  meat  is  a 
matter  of  individual  preference.  Cook 
beef  as  you  like  it — rare,  medium,  or 
well  done. 

Rare  beef  has  a  puffy,  full  appear- 
ance, a  brown  exterior,  reddish-pink 
interior,  and  lots  of  clear  red  juice. 
The  internal  temperature  of  rare  roast 
is  140°  F.  Beef  cooked  to  a  medium 
degree,  with  an  internal  temperature 
of  155°  to  160°  F.,  has  a  light  pink 
interior  and  less  juice  of  a  lighter  color 
than  rare  beef.  Well-done  beef  is  light 
brown  throughout  and  the  internal 
temperature  will  be  170°  to  180°  F. 

The  temperatures  cited  above  are 
those  associated  with  roasts ;  but  small 
roasts  and  steaks  may  reach  a  given 
stage  of  doneness  at  a  lower  internal 
meat  temperature.  To  check  the  done- 
ness of  a  steak  or  chop,  cut  along  the 
bone  and  observe  the  interior  color  of 
the  meat. 

Veal  should  be  cooked  well  done 
(to  170°  F.  internal  temperature)  to 
make  it  tender  and  palatable.  Well- 
done  veal  has  a  red-brown  exterior 

111 


and  a  gray  interior  color.  Lamb  is 
usually  preferred  medium  (170°  F.  in- 
ternal temperature),  or  as  well  done 
(180°  F.).  Medium  lamb  chops  have  a 
grayish-tan  interior  with  a  tinge  of 
pink.  Well-done  lamb  is  grayish-tan 
with  no  trace  of  pink. 

Variety  meats  are  usually  cooked  to 
the  well-done  stage. 

Fresh  pork  should  be  cooked  thor- 
oughly. The  recommended  internal 
temperature  for  pork  loin  is  170°  F. 
Research  has  proved  that  the  185°  F. 
recommended  for  many  years  is  not 
necessary — and  cooking  pork  to  only 
170°  F.  makes  for  juicier  meat  and 
fewer  cooking  losses  than  the  higher 
temperature.  A  good  test  for  "done- 
ness"  of  fresh  pork  is  to  make  small 
cuts  next  to  the  bone  and  into  the 
thicker  part  of  the  meat.  If  the  juice  is 
still  pink,  the  pork  is  not  done.  Heat 
"cook-before-eating"  cured  hams  to 
160°  F.  and  picnic  shoulders  to  1 70°  F. 
"Fully  cooked"  cured  shoulders  and 
hams  may  be  served  unheated,  but 
heating  them  to  130°  F.  brings  out  a 
better  flavor. 

Roasting.  In  roasting,  the  meat  is 
surrounded  and  cooked  by  heated  air 
in  an  oven.  The  meat  is  not  covered 
and  no  water  is  added. 

Specific  cuts  of  beef  in  the  Prime, 
Choice,  and  Good  grades  which  are 
suggested  for  roasting  include  rib,  loin, 
sirloin,  tenderloin,  and  sirloin  tip.  In 
the  Prime  and  Choice  grades,  the  top 
round,  eye  of  round,  and  blade  chuck 
cuts  are  recommended  for  roasting. 

Large  blocky  cuts  of  veal — from 
the  leg,  loin,  rib,  and  shoulder — are 
generally  roasted.  Nearly  all  lamb  cuts 


are  tender  enough  for  roasting,  par- 
ticularly those  from  the  leg,  loin,  rib, 
and  shoulder.  Besides  fresh  and  cured 
ham  and  shoulder,  those  pork  cuts 
which  are  roasted  successfully  include 
loin  or  rib  roasts  and  spareribs. 

Place  any  meat  to  be  roasted  fat 
side  up  in  a  shallow  pan  so  that  the 
fat  may  baste  the  meat  as  it  cooks. 
Insert  a  meat  thermometer  into  the 
center  of  thick  cuts,  being  careful  that 
the  tip  touches  neither  fat  nor  bone. 
Roast  the  meat  uncovered  in  a  325°  F. 
oven  until  the  thermometer  registers 
the  desired  internal  temperature.  Re- 
move meat  from  the  oven  and  allow 
it  to  stand  for  a  few  minutes  to  make 
carving  easier. 

As  a  guide,  approximate  roasting 
times  are  given  in  timetable  below; 
they  are  based  on  meat  at  refrigerator 
temperatures  as  the  cooking  begins. 

Allow  for  extra  time  to  roast  thick, 
chunky  cuts,  boneless  or  rolled  cuts, 
meat  with  an  outside  fat  layer,  and 
stuffed  roasts.  Unthawed  roasts  may 
take  one  and  a  half  times  as  long  to 
cook  as  fresh  or  thawed  roasts  of  the 
same  weight  and  shape.  The  amount 
of  the  additional  cooking  time  needed 
depends  upon  the  size  and  shape  of 
the  meat  cut,  as  well  as  on  its  initial 
temperature. 

Broiling,  Pan  Broiling,  or  Pan  Frying. 
Broiling  is  cooking  meat  one  side  at  a 
time  by  heat  from  a  flame,  electric 
unit,  or  glowing  coals.  In  pan  broiling, 
the  meat  is  cooked  in  an  uncovered 
pan  over  direct  heat,  and  the  fat  that 
cooks  out  of  the  meat  is  drained  off 
and  not  allowed  to  accumulate.  When 
fat  is  added  to  the  pan  or  allowed  to 


Estimated  Times  for  Roasting  Meat  at  325°  F. 


Kind  of  meat  and  cut 

Ready-to-cook 
weight 
Pounds 

Time  required  for  center  of  meat  to  reach  i 

1  given  temperature 

'  F.          Hours 

■F. 

Hours 

•F. 

Hours 

Beef  roasts 

5 
. .  3  to  5 

..  5 
..  5 
..  3 

140      2  to  3 

160 

21/2 

170 
170 
180 
185 

3  to  334 

2%  to  31/0 

fhvfi 

150 
170 

2«>to3 
2%  to  3% 

Fresh  pork  roasts 

Spareribs 

■# 

6 

..  6 

130      H/4  to  2 

160 

2M> 

170 

31/2 

112 


accumulate,  the  method  is  pan  frying. 

Beef  steaks  especially  suitable  for 
broiling,  pan  broiling,  or  pan  frying 
include  tenderloin  (filet  mignon)  in 
all  grades,  and  porterhouse,  T-bone, 
club,  strip  loin,  sirloin,  rib,  ribeye  in 
the  Prime,  Choice,  and  Good  grades. 
The  same  three  cooking  methods  also 
may  be  successfully  used  for  sirloin  tip, 
top  round,  and  blade  chuck  steaks — 
but  only  in  the  Prime  and  Choice 
grades. 

Many  cuts  of  lamb  in  the  Prime  and 
Choice  grades  are  recommended  for 
broiling,  pan  broiling,  or  frying,  in- 
cluding leg  steaks  and  loin,  sirloin, 
rib,  and  shoulder  chops.  Ground  lamb 
or  beef  is  also  broiled  or  pan  broiled 
frequendy.  Pork  chops  may  be  broiled 
or  pan  broiled,  as  well  as  cured  ham 
slices,  bacon,  and  Canadian  bacon. 
Veal  and  pork  steaks,  cudets,  and 
chops  may  be  pan  fried. 

Steaks,  chops,  or  meat  patties  at 
least  an  inch  thick,  and  cured  ham 
slices  %  inch  thick,  are  best  for  broil- 
ing. Thinner  pieces  of  meat  are  usually 
more  satisfactory  when  pan  broiled 
or  pan  fried. 

To  broil,  pan  broil,  or  pan  fry,  trim 
the  outer  edge  of  fat  from  the  meat  to 
within  %  inch — this  reduces  spattering 
and,  when  broiling,  lessens  the  danger 
of  a  steak  or  drippings  catching  on 
fire.  Slash  the  remaining  fat  at  inter- 
vals to  prevent  curling  of  the  meat 
while  it  cooks. 

Place  the  meat  on  a  broiler  rack  and 
slowly  broil  one  side.  When  browned 
on  one  side,  season  the  meat  and  turn 
it  over.  Broil  the  other  side  to  desired 
doneness  and  season  it.  Very  thick 
steaks  or  chops  should  be  cooked  more 
slowly  than  thin  cuts.  Otherwise,  the 
outside  may  char  before  the  inside 
cooks.  Also,  large  steaks  take  longer  to 
reach  a  given  doneness  than  small 
steaks  with  the  same  thickness.  Very 
thick  steaks  or  chops  may  be  warmed 
or  partially  cooked  in  a  350°  F.  oven 
and  then  browned  under  the  broiler. 

To  pan  broil,  cook  the  meat  slowly 
in  a  preheated,  heavy,  uncovered  fry- 
ing pan  over  medium  heat.  To  pan 
fry,  add  a  small  amount  of  fat  to  pre- 


heated pan.  Turn  the  meat  occa- 
sionally. Enough  heat  must  be  applied 
or  the  meat  will  stew  in  the  juice 
rather  than  brown.  To  increase  brown- 
ing, dredge  meat  in  seasoned  flour  or 
crumbs  before  pan  frying. 

Allow  10  to  25  minutes  for  broiling 
1 -inch- thick  steaks.  Lamb  chops  and 
cured  ham  slices  require  12  to  20 
minutes.  Bacon  needs  about  4  to  5 
minutes,  Canadian  bacon  about  10 
minutes,  liver  about  12  minutes,  and 
kabobs  around  20  minutes.  Ground 
meat  patties  take  8  to  15  minutes, 
depending  on  their  thickness  and  de- 
gree of  doneness  desired.  Cooking  time 
for  pan  broiled  meat  is  about  the  same 
as  that  for  broiled  meat  of  similar 
thickness  and  size.  Frying  usually  takes 
a  litde  less  time  than  the  times  given 
for  broiling. 

To  test  broiled  meat  for  doneness, 
cut  a  small  slit  in  the  lean  and  note 
the  color  and  texture.  Or,  press  the 
meat  lighdy  with  a  fork;  very  rare 
meat  is  soft  and  pulpy;  medium  rare 
is  slightiy  resistant,  and  well-done  meat 
is  quite  firm. 

When  meat  is  broiled,  pan  broiled, 
or  fried,  it  will  be  more  tender  and 
juicy  if  cooked  only  to  the  rare  stage, 
rather  than  well  done. 

Braising.  Braising,  cooking  by  steam 
trapped  and  held  in  a  covered  con- 
tainer or  foil  wrap,  is  recommended 
for  less  tender  cuts  of  meat.  The  source 
of  steam  may  be  water  or  other  liquid 
added  to  meat,  or  it  may  be  meat 
juices.  Braising  may  be  done  in  a  heavy 
pan  on  top  of  the  range,  in  a  moderate 
oven,  or  in  a  pressure  saucepan. 

Pot  roasting  is  braising  large  cuts  of 
meat.  Stewing  or  simmering  is  a  form 
of  braising  and  refers  to  cooking  meat 
in  liquid  just  below  the  boiling  point. 
For  stews,  meat  is  cut  into  small  1-  to 
2-inch  cubes. 

Many  beef  cuts,  particularly  in  the 
lower  grades — Standard  or  Commer- 
cial— are  best  prepared  by  braising 
them.  These  include  sirloin,  sirloin  tip, 
round,  flank,  chuck,  shoulder,  rump, 
and  short  ribs. 

Braising  is  good  for  many  cuts  of  veal 
because  the  combination  of  browning 

113 


and  steaming  tenderizes  the  meat  and 
develops  its  flavor.  Best  veal  cuts  for 
braising  include  arm  or  blade  steaks  or 
chops,  breast,  cudets  or  round  steaks, 
loin  or  rib  chops,  and  riblets.  In  lamb, 
the  cuts  most  suited  to  braising  are 
breast,  leg  steaks,  riblets,  shanks,  shoul- 
der chops,  and  roasts.  All  pork  chops 
or  steaks  are  very  satisfactory  when 
braised,  as  are  spareribs  and  cured 
ham  shanks. 

In  braising  meat,  brown  the  meat 
slowly  on  all  sides  in  enough  fat  to  keep 
the  meat  from  sticking.  Meats  which 
have  a  considerable  amount  of  fat  (and 
have  not  been  breaded  or  floured)  can 
be  browned  without  added  fat — brown 
first  the  sides  with  the  greatest  amount 
of  fat.  Add  fat  to  brown  breaded, 
floured,  or  low-fat  meats  like  veal. 
Browning  is  optional;  some  cuts  like 
corned  beef  are  never  browned. 

After  browning  the  meat,  you  may 
need  to  add  a  small  amount  of  liquid 
(around  ){  cup  for  a  roast) — water, 
broth,  cider,  tomato  or  vegetable  juice, 
wine,  meat  stock,  or  diluted  soy  sauce 
may  be  used.  Some  cuts  have  enough 
juices  to  provide  steam  without  requir- 
ing added  moisture. 

Add  liquid  in  small  amounts  as 
needed  rather  than  all  at  once,  to  re- 
tain flavors  developed  during  brown- 
ing. For  soups  and  large  cuts  like 
corned  beef,  cover  meat  with  water. 
Cover  pan  tightly  and  simmer  meat  in 
a  350°  F.  oven  or  over  low  to  medium 
heat  until  the  meat  is  fork  tender. 

Braising  and  simmering  times  de- 
pend on  kind,  size,  and  thickness  of  the 
meat.  Allow  %  to  1  hour  to  braise 
chops  and  cutiets  {){ to  1  inch  thick) ; 
the  longer  time  for  pork  or  larger, 
thicker  cuts.  Flank  steak,  lamb  breast 
or  shank,  and  boneless  cured  pork 
shoulder  butt  require  1%  to  2  hours. 
Chuck  and  round  steak  (1  to  1  %  inches 
thick)  generally  need  2  to  2%  hours  as 
do  short  ribs,  and  lamb  and  veal 
shoulder  roasts.  Beef  roasts  and  shanks 
(3  to  5  pounds)  require  3  to  4  hours. 
Allow  2%  to  3  hours  for  1  %-inch  cubes 
of  beef  to  become  tender  in  stews,  and 
IK  to  2  hours  for  cubes  of  lamb,  pork, 
or  veal.  Fresh  or  corned  beef  brisket 

114 


(8  pounds)  and  whole  cured  hams  (12 
to  16  pounds)  require  4  to  5  hours  of 
simmering  time. 

Country-cured  hams  should  be 
scrubbed,  soaked  overnight  in  water, 
and  then  simmered  (15  to  20  minutes 
per  pound)  to  remove  excess  salt  before 
they  are  roasted  or  braised. 

Braising  in  a  pressure  saucepan 
shortens  the  cooking  time,  but  the 
meat  may  shrink  more  (leaving  fewer 
servings)  and  be  less  juicy  than  meat 
braised  in  the  oven  or  over  direct  heat. 
Meat  braised  at  10  pounds  of  pressure 
is  fork  tender  in  about  a  quarter  of 
the  time  required  for  a  conventional 
braising. 

If  you  add  vegetables  to  braised 
meat,  do  this  during  the  last  30  to  45 
minutes  of  cooking.  Be  cautious  about 
using  strongly  flavored  vegetables,  such 
as  turnips  and  parsnips.  Green  or 
partially  ripe  fruits — peaches,  pears, 
gage  plums — give  beef  stew  a  tart  and 
unusual  flavor. 

A  famous  dish  prepared  by  simmer- 
ing is  the  New  England  boiled  dinner. 
Simmer  corned  beef  with  bay  leaf, 
pepper  corns,  onion,  carrot,  and  pars- 
ley until  tender.  Slice  meat  evenly  and 
serve  with  carrots,  cabbage,  and  pota- 
toes which  have  been  simmered  sepa- 
rately or  with  the  meat  for  the  last 
half  hour  of  cooking  time. 

Cooking  Variety  Meats.  Variety  meats, 
considered  a  gourmet  item  by  many 
people,  are  often  more  economical 
than  regular  meat  cuts  and  offer  an 
interesting  change  of  menu.  The  choice 
of  a  cooking  method  for  variety  meats 
depends  on  how  tender  the  particular 
meat  is.  Variety  meats  are  usually 
cooked  well  done  regardless  of  the 
cooking  method. 

Brains,  sweetbreads,  and  veal  (calf) 
liver  and  kidneys  are  tender  and  can 
be  pan  fried  or  broiled.  For  variation, 
they  can  be  braised  or  simmered.  Less 
tender  variety  meats — heart,  tongue, 
tripe,  and  beef  liver  and  kidneys — 
need  braising  or  simmering. 

To  prepare  a  variety  meat  for  cook- 
ing, you  should  remove  any  large 
blood  vessels  and  wash  the  meat  in 
water  (warm  water  for  heart,  but  cold 


water  for  kidneys,  sweetbreads,  and 
brains). 

For  kidneys,  remove  the  outer  mem- 
brane, split  the  kidneys  lengthwise 
through  the  center,  and  remove  inner 
fat  and  tubes.  To  broil  kidneys,  dip 
them  in  melted  butter  or  margarine, 
and  place  them  on  a  cold  broiler  grid. 
Broil  them  until  they  are  brown  on 
each  side.  To  simmer  kidneys,  place 
them  in  a  deep  pot  and  add  water  to 
cover  them.  Then  simmer  till  tender, 
which  takes  about  1  to  IK  hours  for 
beef  kidneys,  %  to  1  hour  for  veal 
kidneys.  Change  water  once  during 
the  simmering  time  to  eliminate  any 
strong  odor. 

To  broil  liver,  dip  the  sliced  liver  in 
melted  butter  or  margarine,  place  on 
cold  broiler  grid,  and  broil  just  long 
enough  for  the  liver  to  lose  its  red 
color — about  3  minutes  on  each  side. 

Heart  may  be  stuffed  with  dressing 
and  braised  until  tender.  Or  you  may 
wish  to  simmer  beef  heart  3  to  4  hours 
(2%  to  3  hours  cooking  time  for  lamb, 
pork,  and  veal  hearts)  in  salted  water 
until  tender. 

Sweetbreads  and  brains  may  be 
simmered  for  20  minutes  in  water 
containing  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1 
tablespoon  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  per 
quart  (this  liquid  firms  and  whitens 
the  meats).  Then,  dip  the  meat  in 
salted  fat  and  broil  lightly  10  to  15 
minutes;  or  heat  in  cream  or  tomato 
sauce;  or  coat  with  crumbs  or  flour 
and  fry  about  20  minutes  until  tender 
and  lighdy  browned. 

Cooking  Ground  Meat.  Homemakers 
serve  ground  meat  frequentiy — it  can 
be  formed  into  meat  patties  (which 
are  broiled  or  fried),  meat  loaves, 
meatballs,  or  used  in  meat  sauces. 

To  prepare  juicy  ground  meat, 
handle  the  meat  as  little  as  possible. 
Excessive  mixing  results  in  a  more 
compact,  less  tender  product.  Be  care- 
ful not  to  overcook  the  meat  or  it  will 
be  too  dry. 

Meatballs  may  contain  ground  meat 
mixed  with  seasonings,  breadcrumbs, 
mashed  potatoes,  rice,  and  liquid. 
The  meat  mixture  is  often  shaped, 
browned,  and  simmered  in  a  sauce  for 


30  to  45  minutes  over  low  heat  or  in 
a  350°  F.  oven.  During  cooking  the 
meat  is  basted  with  the  sauce  occasion- 
ally. Meatballs  also  may  be  fried  in  a 
pan  or  in  deep  fat. 

A  meat  loaf  mixture — possibly  con- 
taining onions,  green  peppers,  mush- 
rooms, and  celery — may  be  packed  in 
a  loaf  pan  or  mold  and  baked  un- 
covered at  350°  F.  The  cooking  time 
depends  on  size  and  shape  of  loaf. 

Leftover  cooked  meat  may  be  cubed 
or  ground  and  included  in  many 
recipes  calling  for  braised  or  simmered 
meat.  Just  eliminate  the  browning 
step  and  reduce  the  braising  or  sim- 
mering time.  Ground  cooked  meat  can 
be  used  in  croquettes,  salads,  souffles, 
omelets,  and  casseroles. 

To  make  a  meat  roll,  spread  biscuit 
or  pie  dough  with  chopped  or  cubed 
cooked  meat  moistened  with  gravy. 
Roll  like  a  jelly  roll;  slice  1  inch  thick; 
and  bake  it  on  a  greased  pan  until 
browned. 

A  good  hash  is  made  up  of  finely 
chopped  leftover  meat,  cubed  potatoes, 
onions,  and  well-seasoned  gravy.  All 
these  are  fried  together  until  firm 
enough  to  dip.  Fry  slowly  to  allow 
potatoes  to  absorb  flavor  of  the  meat. 

Seasoning.  A  high-quality  piece  of 
meat  really  requires  only  salt  and  pep- 
per for  seasoning.  However,  to  give 
variety  you  may  season  it  with  spices 
and  herbs,  marinate  it,  baste  it  with  a 
glaze  or  sauce,  or  fill  it  with  a  stuffing. 

Seasonings  sprinkled  on  raw  meat 
surfaces  penetrate  only  slightly.  Spices 
and  herbs  are  often  added  to  the 
cooked  meat  or  its  sauce.  But  a  word 
of  caution:  Limit  the  number  and 
amount  of  spices  and  herbs  used  at 
any  one  time  with  meat.  Heat  may 
produce  a  stronger  aromatic  flavor 
than  is  desired.  Omit  or  reduce  salt 
when  seasoned  salt  (salt  combined 
with  a  spice  or  herb)  or  soy  sauce  is 
used — otherwise  the  meat  may  turn 
too  salty. 

Remember,  it  is  so  easy  to  add 
flavor  with  seasoning — but  impossible 
to  remove  it  when  too  much  is  added. 

Commercial  tenderizers  may  be 
applied  to  the  surface  of  raw  meat  to 

115 


increase  its  tenderness.  Like  season- 
ings, they  penetrate  for  only  a  short 
distance,  so  they  are  more  effective  in 
tenderizing  steaks  than  roasts.  Papain, 
the  enzyme  used  in  most  commercially 
prepared  tenderizers,  tenderizes  meat 
proteins  primarily  during  cooking  at 
the  temperatures  between  140°  and 
176°  F.  Over  tenderization  may  occur 
if  enzyme- treated  meat  is  cooked  at 
too  low  a  temperature,  if  it  is  held  at 
serving  temperatures  for  a  long  time, 
or  if  it  is  reheated.  Some  commercial 
tenderizers  contain  added  seasonings. 

Marinating  is  used  to  introduce 
flavor  into  a  meat  dish.  At  one  time, 
marinades  were  used  for  tenderizing 
purposes,  but  most  cooks  today  use 
them  for  flavor.  Marinades  usually 
include  an  acid  (lemon  juice,  cider, 
or  vinegar),  seasonings  (salt,  pepper, 
onion,  garlic,  spices  or  herbs),  and 
sometimes  a  fat  (olive,  vegetable  oil). 

To  marinate,  soak  small  cuts  (cubes 
or  chops)  for  a  few  hours  in  enough 
liquid  to  entirely  cover  them.  Mari- 
nate large  cuts  overnight  to  24  hours 
in  the  refrigerator.  The  acid  pene- 
trates meat  slowly,  so  you  should  allow 
time  for  the  flavor  to  reach  the  center. 
To  reduce  the  amount  of  marinade 
required,  use  a  container  (not  alumi- 
num as  the  acid  may  pit  it)  only 
slightly  larger  than  the  meat,  or  encase 
the  meat  with  marinade  in  a  plastic 
freezer  bag.  Turn  the  meat  several 
times. 

Moderately  low  roasting  tempera- 
tures have  made  it  not  necessary  to 
baste  meat  to  combat  excessive  dry- 
ness. However,  basting  or  glazing  a 
baked  ham  continues  as  a  traditional 
cooking  method,  and  other  meat  cuts 
may  be  basted  with  a  glaze,  sauce,  or 
wine  to  add  flavor.  Try  basting  meat 
during  the  last  30  minutes  of  roasting, 
using  grape  juice,  apple  cider,  cran- 
berry sauce,  maple  sirup,  or  sweet- 
sour  sauce.  Remove  the  skin  of  cured 
and  smoked  pork  shoulders  and  hams 
and  score  the  fat  just  before  basting. 
Other  meat  cuts  require  no  special 
treatment  before  basting. 


Stuffing  may  also  add  distinction  to 
many  meats.  You  can  stuff  breast  of 
lamb  or  veal;  pork  chops;  shoulder  of 
veal,  lamb,  or  pork;  lamb  or  pork 
crown  roasts,  spareribs,  and  tender- 
loins. Also,  before  roasting  or  braising, 
you  can  roll  thin  slices  of  boneless  meat 
(slices  should  be  pounded  flat)  around 
stuffing  and  fasten  with  toothpicks  or 
a  small  skewer,  or  tie  with  a  string. 

The  stuffing  base  can  be  bread,  rice, 
cornbread,  potatoes,  corn,  ground 
meat,  macaroni,  or  fruit.  For  variety 
and  flavor,  add  anchovies,  ripe  olives, 
mushrooms,  green  peppers,  nuts,  or 
pickles.  Many  people  prefer  a  rich, 
flavorful  stuffing  for  veal  and  a  fruit 
stuffing  for  pork.  Stuff  veal  with  a 
sausage  or  ham  mixture,  or  with  your 
favorite  poultry  stuffing.  Stuff  pork 
with  a  cooked  mixture  of  dried  apri- 
cots, prunes,  rice,  celery,  onion,  and 
almonds,  or  with  prunes  and  apples. 

Ground  meat  combines  readily  with 
numerous  flavors  or  seasonings  to  make 
it  subtle,  spicy,  hot,  or  pungent,  as 
you  prefer. 

When  you  are  pan  broiling  meat 
patties,  use  a  teaspoon  of  salt  per 
pound  of  meat,  and  add  a  little  bar- 
becue or  Worcestershire  sauce  to  the 
pan  just  before  the  cooking  is  com- 
pleted— this  gives  a  tangy  flavor. 

Meat  loaves  may  be  distinctively 
yours.  Add  sage,  garlic,  or  dry  mustard 
for  a  new  flavor.  For  a  surprise,  pack 
the  meat  around  whole  peeled  carrots, 
or  around  rectangles  of  sharp  proc- 
essed cheese,  or  around  a  row  of  hard- 
cooked  eggs.  Alternate  layers  of  sea- 
soned ground  meat  with  layers  of 
sliced  onions,  sliced  fresh  tomatoes, 
and  cooked  bacon. 

Cooking  meat  is  not  difficult — you 
actually  have  more  freedom  in  pre- 
paring meat  than  you  do  in  making  a 
cake,  which  requires  precise  measure- 
ments. Just  follow  the  basic  recom- 
mendations in  this  section:  Select  the 
grade  and  cuts  of  meat  best  suited  to 
the  method  of  cooking  you  plan  to  use, 
store  it  properly,  and  cook  it  at  a  low 
temperature. 


116 


Violet  B.  Crosby 
Ashley  R.  Gulich 


Poultry:  A  Tasty, 
Anytime  Delight 
That's  Popular 
Dozens  of  Ways 


Poultry  is  high  on  the  list  of  popularity 
in  American  meals — and  that's  no 
accident.  With  today's  modern  pro- 
duction, processing,  and  marketing 
methods,  chicken,  turkey,  duck,  and 
geese  are  available  the  year  around — 
for  roasting,  broiling,  frying,  stewing, 
or  making  soups,  salads,  or  practically 
whatever  you  can  think  of. 

Packaged,  cut-up  chicken  and  tur- 
key, heat-and-serve  fried  chicken,  and 
the  newer  turkey  and  chicken  rolls, 
roasts,  or  bars  make  poultry  among  the 
most  versatile  and  easy-to-prepare 
dishes  you  can  find.  Roasts  and  rolls, 
all  meat  and  boneless,  make  a  wonder- 
ful dish  for  buffet  dinners,  late  parties, 
or  any  time. 

Because  of  seasonal  production  and 
limited  supplies,  "chicken  on  Sunday" 
and  "turkey  on  Thanksgiving"  were 
meals  looked  forward  to  with  mouth- 
watering anticipation  in  the  1930's. 
But  those  days  are  in  the  past — today's 
consumers  have  a  delectable  variety  of 
poultry  products  to  serve  any  day  of 
the  week,  any  week  of  the  year. 

How  well  our  American  palates  are 
satisfied  by  poultry  is  reflected  by  its 
frequent  appearance  on   the  family 


menu.  Per  capita  consumption  of 
poultry  has  jumped  spectacularly  in 
the  past  30  years — we  now  eat  more 
than  twice  as  much  chicken  as  we  did 
back  in  1940,  and  three  times  as  much 
turkey. 

The  terms  for  "poultry"  include 
chickens,  turkeys,  geese,  guineas,  and 
duck.  Broiler-fryer  chickens  are  pro- 
duced most  heavily  in  the  Del-Mar- Va 
Peninsula,  where  Delaware,  Maryland, 
and  Virginia  converge,  and  in  the 
Southeast,  notably  in  Georgia,  Missis- 
sippi, Alabama,  Arkansas,  and  the 
Carolinas. 

Stewing  hens,  a  byproduct  of  the  egg 
industry,  are  produced  in  the  South- 
east, Midwest,  parts  of  the  Northeast, 
and  in  California. 

Major  production  areas  for  turkeys 
are  the  Midwest  and  California. 

Ducks  are  produced  mostly  on  Long 
Island,  N.Y.,  and  to  a  lesser  degree 
in  the  Midwest,  Massachusetts,  and 
Virginia. 

Today's  poultry  is  pampered — mass 
produced  in  well-designed  housing 
with  automated  feed  and  water  sup- 
plies, so  the  birds  don't  have  to  forage 
for  part  of  their  meals  as  they  did  in 
the  past. 

Young  poultry  is  marketed  at  a 
very  tender  age.  Broiler-fryers  are 
ready  for  market  in  about  9  weeks, 
and  20-pound  torn  turkeys  usually  in 
about  5  months. 

Poultry  is  an  excellent  source  of 
high-quality  protein,  with  the  amino 
acids  essential  to  growth  and  health. 
Weight  watchers  are  partial  to  chicken 
and  turkey  because  an  average  serv- 
ing contains  fewer  calories  than  an 
average  serving  of  most  other  meats. 
Poultry  also  provides  many  other 
essential  nutrients  including  iron,  thia- 
mine (vitamin  Bi),  riboflavin  (vita- 
min B2),  and  niacin. 

As  a  protection  to  the  American 

Violet  B.  Crosby  is  a  Home  Economist  in  the 
Labels,  Standards,  and  Packaging  Branch,  Tech- 
nical Services  Division,  Consumer  and  Marketing 
Service. 

Ashley  R.  Gulich  is  Chief  of  the  Standardization 
Branch,  Poultry  Division,  Consumer  and  Market- 
ing Service. 

117 


people,  Congress  has  enacted  two 
laws  requiring  that  poultry  products 
be  safe  for  your  family. 

The  Poultry  Products  Inspection 
Act — passed  in  1957 — required  Fed- 
eral inspection  of  all  poultry  moving 
in  interstate  commerce. 

The  newer  law,  the  Wholesome 
Poultry  Products  Act,  enacted  in  1968 
and  amending  the  previous  act,  goes 
even  further.  It  requires  inspection — 
at  least  as  good  as  Federal  inspection — 
of  all  poultry  regardless  of  whether  it 
moves  in  interstate  commerce.  Under 
this  new  law,  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture  provides  cash  assistance 
and  technical  advice  to  help  States 
develop  inspection  programs  equal  to 
the  Federal  program.  If  a  State  does 
not  develop  an  adequate  inspection 
program,  all  poultry  processing  plants 
within  that  State  will  then  come  under 
mandatory  Federal  inspection. 

In  these  ways,  you  are  protected 
wherever  you  might  buy  your  poultry. 

Poultry  inspection  involves  many 
aspects.  Processing  plants  must  meet 
strictest  requirements  for  cleanliness; 
they  must  have  adequate  equipment 
and  procedures  to  do  a  good  job. 
Inspectors — who  are  either  doctors 
of  veterinary  medicine  or  are  trained 
specialists  under  a  veterinarian's  super- 
vision— keep  constant  watch  over  the 
plant,  over  the  processing  operation, 
over  every  bird  that  comes  through 
the  plant. 

Any  birds  found  to  be  unhealthy 
or  not  fit  for  eating  are  removed 
immediately  from  the  processing  line 
and  condemned  for  use  as  human 
food.  Inspectors  also  make  sure  that 


So 


US 

DEPARTMENT  OF 

AGRICULTURE 

P-42 


INSPECTION  LEGEND-SYMBOL  OF  WHOLESOMENESS 


the  products  are  not  adulterated  and 
are  truthfully  labeled — all  labels  must 
be  federally  approved  before  they  can 
be  used. 

In  addition,  official  laboratories  run 
continuous  tests  on  poultry  products 
to  guard  against  bacterial  or  chemical 
contamination. 

USDA  also  has  specified  minimum 
meat  requirements  for  many  processed 
poultry  products.  For  example,  if  a 
product  is  labeled  "Turkey  Pie"  it 
must  contain  at  least  14  percent 
cooked,  deboned  turkey  meat.  Chicken 
dinners  must  contain  at  least  18  per- 
cent cooked,  deboned  chicken  meat; 
chicken  a  la  king,  at  least  20  percent 
meat;  and  chicken  noodles  or  dump- 
lings, at  least  15  percent  meat. 

When  you  see  the  round  USDA 
inspection  mark  on  poultry — and  on 
poultry  products  like  pot  pies  and 
prepared  dinners — you  can  be  sure 
they  have  passed  strict  standards  for 
wholesomeness,  proper  preparation, 
and  labeling. 

Another  valuable  USDA  service  is 
grading  poultry  for  quality.  This  is  a 
voluntary  program — paid  for  by  proc- 
essors at  no  cost  to  the  taxpayer.  The 
official  USDA  grade  shield  is  your 
assurance  of  quality. 

Before  poultry  can  be  graded,  it 
must  first  be  federally  inspected  for 
wholesomeness. 

The  poultry  grader — a  Federal  or 
Federal-State  quality  expert — exam- 
ines each  bird  for  conformation  (over- 
all shape  and  appearance),  meatiness, 
amount  of  fat,  and  the  presence  or 
absence  of  defects  (torn  skin,  discolor- 
ations,  or  bruises). 

Grades  are  based  on  nationally 
uniform  standards  of  quality,  so  that 
U.S.  Grade  A,  for  example,  in  New 
York  means  the  same  as  U.S.  Grade  A 
in  San  Francisco.  USDA  standardiza- 
tion specialists  constandy  work  to  keep 
the  standards  up  to  date  with  current 
marketing  practices  and  consumer 
desires. 

The  top  grade  for  poultry,  and  the 
only  one  commonly  found  in  stores,  is 
U.S.  Grade  A.  Grade  A  birds  have 
good  overall  shape  and  appearance. 


118 


They  are  meaty,  have  a  well-developed 
layer  of  fat  in  the  skin,  and  are 
practically  free  from  defects  such  as 
cuts  and  bruises. 

Official  standards  also  provide  for 
U.S.  Grade  B  and  U.S.  Grade  C 
poultry.  These  birds  are  not  as  at- 
tractive as  Grade  A.  They  may  have 
defects  and  faulty  conformation,  and 
could  be  lacking  in  fleshing  and  fat 
cover. 

Because  our  poultry  today  is  quite 
uniform  in  quality,  most  birds  are 
U.S.  Grade  A.  Birds  graded  below 
U.S.  Grade  A  are  usually  sold  without 
the  grademark  in  supermarkets,  or 
are  used  in  processed  foods  where 
appearance  is  not  important. 

Until  recently,  the  grademark  was 
found  only  on  poultry  or  poultry 
parts.  In  1965,  grade  standards  were 
developed  for  raw,  ready-to-cook 
poultry  rolls,  roasts,  or  bars  which  can 
now  be  graded  U.S.  Grade  A  if  they 
meet  USDA  standards. 

In    addition    to    making    sure    the 


poultry  you  buy  has  been  inspected 
and  graded,  you  will  also  want  to 
know  the  age  of  the  bird.  Age  indicates 
tenderness  and  suggests  ways  to  cook 
the  poultry. 

Poultry  is  usually  labeled  according 
to  age  with  the  following  terms: 

•  Mature  chickens  may  be  labeled — 
mature  chicken,  old  chicken,  hen, 
stewing  chicken,  or  fowl. 

•  Mature  turkeys  may  be  labeled — 
mature  turkey,  yearling  turkey,  or 
old  turkey. 

•  Mature  ducks,  geese,  and  guineas 
may  be  labeled — mature  or  old. 

•  Young  chickens  may  be  labeled — 
young  chicken,  Rock  Cornish  game 
hen,  broiler,  fryer,  roaster,  or  capon. 

•  Young  turkeys  may  be  labeled — 
as  young  turkey,  fryer-roaster,  young 
hen,  or  young  torn. 

•  Young  ducks  may  be  labeled — 
as  duckling,  young  duckling,  broiler 
duckling,  fryer  duckling,  or  as  roast- 
er duckling. 


Turkey,  ready  to  serve. 


You  can  usually  save  money  if  you 
buy  whole  poultry  and  cut  it  into 
serving  pieces  yourself.  Whole  poultry 
usually  is  a  few  cents  less  per  pound 
than  cut-up  poultry. 

It  is  also  more  economical  to  buy 
large  turkeys  rather  than  small  ones. 
Not  only  do  the  larger  birds  usually 
sell  for  a  few  cents  less  per  pound,  but 
they  also  have  a  larger  proportion  of 
meat  to  bone,  so  you  get  a  bargain 
two  ways.  Smaller  turkeys,  however, 
do  offer  more  varieties  of  cooking  than 
large  ones. 

How  often  have  you  asked  yourself, 
"How  much  poultry  should  I  buy  for 
my  family?"  Naturally,  the  amount 
depends  not  only  upon  the  kind  of 
poultry  you  choose,  but  also  on  the 
cooking  method,  the  number  and  size 
of  the  servings,  and  whether  or  not 
leftovers  are  desired. 

For  whole  broiler-fryers,  stewing 
chicken,  turkey,  duckling,  or  goose, 
the  average  serving  per  person  is 
about  3  ounces  of  cooked  meat  (with- 
out bone),  and  you  will  need  to  buy 
}i  pound  for  each  serving.  For  a  bone- 
less turkey  roast,  count  on  only  % 
pound  per  serving.  If  you  are  buying 
cut-up  chicken,  these  are  the  serving 
sizes  often  used :  one  breast  half,  one 
leg,  two  drumsticks,  two  thighs,  or 
four  wings. 

Remember  that  poultry,  like  all 
meats,  is  perishable;  therefore,  proper 
storage  is  important.  So  buy  frozen, 
chilled,  or  smoked  poultry  only  from 
freezer  or  refrigerator  cases  in  order 
to  obtain  a  top-quality  product.  It 
is  wise  to  examine  packages  to  be  sure 
the  wrappers  are  neither  torn  nor 
broken.  Any  frozen  poultry  should  be 
solidly  frozen  when  purchased. 

Chilled  raw  poultry  should  be  stored 
prompdy  in  the  coldest  part  of  the 
refrigerator  and  used  within  1  to  2 
days.  The  transparent  wrap  on  pack- 
aged poultry  is  designed  to  control 
moisture  loss,  and  is  suitable  for  short 
term  home  refrigerator  or  freezer 
storage,  as  well  as  storage  in  the  retail 
case. 

If  poultry  is  purchased  in  market 
paper,    unwrap   it   and    remove   the 

120 


giblets.  Place  the  poultry  on  a  platter 
or  tray,  cover  with  wax  paper  or 
plastic  wrap,  cover  giblets,  and  refrig- 
erate separately. 

Frozen  raw  poultry  should  be  kept  in 
the  freezer  at  0°  F.  or  lower.  It  is 
important  that  all  poultry  be  packaged 
in  moisture  and  vapor  resistant  wrap- 
ping or  bag,  or  in  suitable  rigid  con- 
tainers, and  kept  solidly  frozen  until 
ready  to  use.  Be  sure  to  label  all  the 
packages  with  the  date  and  kind  of 
poultry. 

The  maximum  length  of  time  that 
frozen  poultry  will  maintain  quality 
in  the  home  freezer  depends  on  the 
quality  of  the  poultry  at  the  time 
that  it's  frozen,  the  kind  of  packaging 
or  container  used,  and  the  storage 
temperature. 

Suggested  maximum  storage  times 
to  maintain  quality  in  frozen  poultry 
in  the  home  freezer  at  0°  F.  are: 

Uncooked  poultry:  Months 

Chicken  and  turkey 12 

Duck  and  goose 6 

Giblets 3 

Cooked  poultry  (slices  or  pieces): 

Covered  with  broth  or  gravy 6 

Not  covered  with  broth  or  gravy 1 

Poultry  meat  sandwiches 1 

Cooked  poultry  dishes 6 

Fried  chicken 4 

Smoked  poultry  should  be  stored  in  the 
refrigerator.  If  it  is  to  be  held  longer 
than  2  weeks,  be  certain  it  is  wrapped 
in  moisture-  and  vapor-proof  paper  or 
aluminum  foil,  or  placed  in  plastic 
bags  and  frozen. 

Freeze-dried  poultry  may  be  held  at 
room  temperature  up  to  2  years  if  the 
container  has  a  good,  solid  seal.  Of 
course,  quality  of  the  product  will  de- 
pend on  condition  of  the  raw  poultry, 
care  with  which  it  was  freeze-dried, 
and  the  seal  of  the  container. 

Canned  poultry  should  be  kept  in  a 
dry  place  at  room  temperature  (not 
above  70°  F.).  It  may  be  stored  for  a 
year. 

Ready-to-cook,  chilled  poultry  is  in- 
deed ready  to  cook — merely  rinse  in 
cool  water,  drain,  and  pat  dry;  then 
prepare,  using  your  favorite  cooking 
method.  If  the  poultry  is  to  be  fried, 
broiled,  or  oven-browned,  make  sure 
it  is  dry  to  prevent  spattering. 


Frozen  poultry  usually  is  thawed 
before  cooking.  Whole  poultry  (frozen 
without  giblets)  or  frozen  poultry  parts 
may  be  cooked  without  thawing.  Cook- 
ing time  will  be  longer  than  for  un- 
frozen poultry.  Do  not  thaw  com- 
mercially frozen  stuffed  poultry  before 
cooking.  Do  follow  the  manufacturer's 
instructions  printed  on  the  label. 

As  soon  as  possible  after  serving, 
separate  any  leftover  poultry  and  stuff- 
ing. Place  each  in  a  covered  container, 
or  loosely  wrap  each  in  a  moisture-  and 
vapor-proof  wrapping  or  container 
and  store  in  the  coldest  part  of  the 
refrigerator.  If  you  plan  to  hold  them 
longer  than  1  or  2  days,  they  may  be 
frozen  if  they  are  properly  packaged 
in  airtight  containers. 

Promptly  refrigerate  any  leftover 
broth  or  gravy,  and  use  within  1  or  2 
days.  Reheat  gravy  and  broth  to  boil- 
ing before  eating. 

There  are  three  recommended  meth- 
ods of  thawing  poultry.  The  method 
used  will  depend  on  the  length  of  time 
and  the  amount  of  space  which  is 
available  for  thawing. 

•  Thawing  in  the  Refrigerator- — Place 
poultry,  still  in  its  original  wrap,  on 
tray  or  platter.  Thaw  in  refrigerator 
for  1  or  2  days  until  pliable.  Turkeys 
weighing  18  pounds  or  over  may  take 
3  days  to  thaw. 

•  Thawing  in  Cold  Water — If  it  needs 
to  be  thawed  on  short  notice,  the 
poultry  should  be  placed,  in  its  water- 
tight wrapper,  in  cold  water.  Change 
the  water  often  to  hasten  thawing. 
Time  required  will  be  about  1  hour 
for  small  birds  and  up  to  6  or  8  hours 
for  large  turkeys.  Thaw  until  pliable. 

Or  you  can  use  a  combination 
method — partially  thaw  poultry  in 
the  refrigerator  and  complete  the 
thawing  in  cold  water. 

•  Thawing  at  Room  Temperature — If 
it  is  not  practical  to  use  the  thawing 
methods  mentioned,  you  may  safely 
thaw  poultry  in  a  cool  room  away  from 
heat.  To  keep  the  surface  temperature 
of  the  bird  cool  during  thawing,  the 
following  precautions  are  recom- 
mended :  Leave  poultry  in  its  original 


plastic  wrapping,  and  place  it  in  a 
closed,  double  wall  paper  bag  or  wrap 
the  poultry  in  newspaper  and  set  in  a 
corrugated  box.  Thaw  until  poultry 
becomes  pliable. 

As  with  all  foods,  use  care  and 
cleanliness  in  handling  fresh-chilled, 
frozen,  or  cooked  poultry  to  guard 
against  food  poisoning  bacteria. 

Before  cooking  poultry,  the  main 
concern  in  handling  is  avoiding  pos- 
sible cross-contamination  to  other  foods 
or  surfaces  in  the  kitchen.  For  this 
reason,  after  touching  raw  poultry 
you  should  wash  your  hands  before 
working  with  other  foods.  Always 
clean  and  sanitize  any  food  handling 
equipment,  such  as  knives  and  cutting 
boards,  after  they  have  contacted  raw 
meat  or  poultry  prior  to  using  them 
again. 

Do  not  partially  cook  poultry  1  day 
and  complete  the  cooking  the  follow- 
ing day.  This  is  not  considered  a  good 
procedure,  as  it  would  give  bacteria 
an  additional  opportunity  to  grow.  If 
staphylococci  are  present,  a  toxin  is 
produced  which  can  cause  food  poison- 
ing. To  avoid  this  danger,  completely 
cook  the  bird  at  one  time. 

How  can  you  cook  poultry?  How 
can't  you  cook  it  would  be  a  better 
question.  It  can  be  baked,  broiled, 
roasted,  fried,  braised,  barbecued, 
stuffed,  stewed,  or  cooked  with  other 
foods  such  as  vegetables,  rice,  and 
special  seasonings  for  delicious  gour- 
met dishes. 

Young,  tender-meated  poultry  is 
most  suitable  for  barbecuing,  frying, 
broiling,  or  roasting.  Mature,  less 
tender-meated  poultry  may  be  pre- 
ferred for  stewing  and  baking,  for  use 
in  casseroles,  soups,  and  salads.  No 
matter  how  you  choose  to  serve  it,  you 
are  sure  to  please  your  family  because 
poultry  is  one  of  the  most  popular 
foods — for  young  and  old  alike. 

Roast  Whole  Poultry — All  kinds  of 
poultry — chicken,  turkey,  duck,  goose, 
and  guinea — are  delicious  roasted. 
Whole  poultry  may  be  roasted  stuffed 
or  unstuffed. 

To  prepare  it  for  roasting,  rinse  the 

121 


poultry,  drain,  and  pat  dry.  Rub 
cavity  lighdy  with  salt,  if  desired.  It  is 
not  necessary  to  salt  poultry  which  is 
to  be  stuffed. 

Fill  wishbone  (neck)  area  lightly 
with  stuffing.  Fasten  neck  skin  to  back 
of  bird  with  skewer.  Stuff  body  cavity 
lighdy.  Tuck  legs  under  bird,  using 
skewers  or  string,  and  shape  wings 
akimbo-style — that  is,  bring  wing  dps 
onto  back.  Insert  a  meat  thermometer 
in  the  inner  thigh  muscle. 

Place  poultry,  breast-side  up,  in  a 
shallow  pan.  If  desired,  brush  skin 
with  oil  or  melted  fat.  To  roast  poultry 
halves,  quarters,  pieces,  or  roasts, 
place  skin-side  up  in  a  shallow  pan.  If 
poultry  browns  early  in  the  roasting 
period,  cover  the  breast  and  drum- 
stick lighdy  with  aluminum  foil  or 
moisten  a  thin  cloth  with  fat  and  place 
it  over  the  breast  and  legs  to  prevent 
overbrowning.  Baste  with  drippings, 
if  desired.  Ducks,  geese,  and  guineas 
have  sufficient  fat  so  that  they  need 
no  basting. 

At  the  half  or  two-thirds  point  of 
roasting,  cut  the  string  or  skin  to 
release  the  bird's  legs.  The  meat  is 
done  when  the  temperature  reaches 
180°  to  185°  F.  Also  check  the  stuffing 
temperature;  this  should  be  at  least 
165°  F. 

A  second  way  to  test  for  doneness  is 
to  press  the  fleshy  part  of  the  drum- 
stick with  protected  fingers. 

When  done  the  meat  will  feel  soft,  the 


drumstick  will  move  easily,  and  the 
leg  joint  will  give  readily. 

Braising  Poultry — To  change  oven 
roasting  to  braising,  just  cover  the 
poultry  while  it  is  cooking.  A  small 
amount  of  water  may  be  added,  if 
desired.  Braising  is  suitable  for  all 
poultry,  but  it  is  excellent  for  mature, 
less  tender  birds.  Cooking  the  poultry 
covered  and  with  a  small  amount  of 
moisture  tenderizes  the  meat  and  also 
brings  out  its  rich  flavor. 

Broiling  Poultry — In  these  low-fat, 
low-calorie  times,  nothing  beats  broiled 
poultry.  Young  chickens,  Cornish 
game  hens,  small  broiler-fryer  turkeys, 
ducklings,  and  guineas  can  be  broiled 
satisfactorily.  Pieces  are  seasoned, 
placed  in  a  broiler  pan,  and  brushed 
with  melted  fat  or  cooking  oil.  Follow 
manufacturer's  direction  for  the  cor- 
rect distance  to  place  the  broiler  pan 
from  the  heating  element.  Broil  20  to 
30  minutes  on  one  side  or  until  it's 
browned.  Then  turn,  brush  with  fat 
or  oil  and  broil  until  done,  about  15 
to  25  minutes  longer.  Since  turkey 
and  duck  pieces  ace  thicker,  they 
require  a  longer  broiling  time,  about 
30  minutes  on  each  side. 

Rotisserie  Cooking — Great  for  the 
family  table  is  young  poultry  cooked 
on  special  rotisserie  equipment  that 
turns  the  bird  slowly  on  a  rotary  spit 
over  or  under  direct  heat. 

To  mount  a  whole  bird,  attach  the 
neck  skin  with  a  skewer  to  the  back 


Roasting  Guide  for  Poultry 


Kind 


Weight,  ready 
to  cook 
(pounds) 


Approximate 

roasting  time 

at  325°  F. 

(hours) 


internal  temperature 
when  done 


Chickens,  whole,  stuffed: 

Broilers  or  fryers liA  to  2y2 

Roasters 2%  to  4Vfe 

Capons 5  to  8 

Ducks 4  to  6 

Geese 6  to  8 

8  to  12 

Turkeys: 

Whole,  stuffed 6  to  8 

8  to  12 
12  to  16 
16  to  20 
20  to  24 

Halves,  quarters,  and  pieces 3  to  8 

8  to  12 

Boneless  roasts 3  to  10 


1  to  2 

2  to  3W> 
2%  to  3y2 

2  to  3 

3  to  3i/o 
31/2  to  41/2 


180  to  185  in  thigh 
180  to  185  in  thigh 
180  to  185  in  thigh 
180  to  185  in  thigh 
180  to  185  in  thigh 


170  to  175  in  center 


122 


When  meat  thermometer  is  used  in  roasting  poultry,  it  should  be  inserted  into  center  of  inner 

thigh  muscle. 


of  the  body.  Tie  or  skewer  wings  close 
to  the  body.  Insert  the  spit  through 
the  length  of  the  body  and  tighten 
holding  prongs.  Tie  tail  and  drum- 
sticks firmly  to  the  rod.  When  properly 
balanced,  the  bird  will  rotate  evenly 
as  the  spit  is  turned. 

More  than  one  bird  can  usually  be 
cooked  at  a  time  if  the  spit  is  long 
enough.  Mount  the  birds  in  opposite 
directions  (neck  to  neck)  to  maintain 
good  balance  on  the  spit.  Brush  skin 
with  oil  or  melted  fat.  Follow  manu- 
facturer's directions  for  rotisserie  tem- 
perature  setting  and    time.   Test  for 


doneness  as  you  would  for  roast 
poultry. 

Frying  Poultry — Frying  is  America's 
favorite  method  of  cooking  poultry. 
Crisp  fried  poultry  is  always  a  treat, 
whether  it's  young  broiler-fryer  chick- 
ens, capons,  Cornish  game  hens, 
fryer-roaster  turkeys,  ducklings,  or 
guineas. 

You  can  fry  poultry  without  a 
coating  if  pieces  are  thoroughly  dried. 
However,  coatings  give  a  crisp  surface 
and  help  to  retain  moisture  in  the 
meat. 

Suitable  coatings  to  use  with  poultry 

123 


are  quick  and  easy  to  make:  Flour — 
combine  %  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
and  %  teaspoon  of  pepper;  batter- 
combine  1  egg,  %  cup  milk,  1  cup 
flour,  and  1  teaspoon  salt;  crumb  or 
cereal — use  fine  dry  breadcrumbs  or 
crushed  cereal  flakes  on  batter-dipped 
poultry  pieces. 

Perhaps  the  easiest  way  to  fry 
chicken  is  to  ovenfry  the  pieces.  This 
is  the  reliable  "put  it  in  the  oven  and 
forget  it  for  a  half  hour  method." 
Place  poultry  pieces  in  a  shallow  pan 
containing  %  inch  melted  fat;  turn 
pieces  to  coat  both  sides  with  fat. 
Cook  at  400°  F.  for  30  minutes,  turn 
and  cook  20  to  30  minutes  longer 
until  crisp  and  tender. 

When  the  hostess  wants  to  shine, 
serving  crisp  french-fried  (deep  fat 
fried)  poultry  always  makes  a  hit. 
Place  coated  poultry  in  enough  hot 
fat  (365°  F.)  to  cover.  Fry  only  a  few 
pieces  at  a  time.  Serving-size  pieces 
take  about  10  to  15  minutes. 

Another  great  crisp  way  with  poul- 
try is  to  panfry  the  pieces.  Place 
poultry  skin-side  down  in  about  % 
inch  of  fat  preheated  in  a  heavy 
frying  pan.  Cook  uncovered  15  to  25 
minutes  on  each  side  or  until  poultry 
is  tender  and  crisp.  For  turkey  or 
duckling,  cover  tightly  after  browning 
and  cook  slowly  45  to  60  minutes 
until  tender — turn  occasionally. 

Simmering  or  Stewing  Poultry — An 
excellent  cooking  method  for  mature, 
less  tender  poultry  is  simmering  (or 
stewing).  Young  poultry  may  be 
cooked  by  this  method,  but  will  lack 
the  full  rich  flavor  of  mature  poultry. 
Cover  poultry  with  water  and  simmer 
until  meat  is  tender.  If  you  desire, 
brown  the  pieces  in  a  little  hot  fat  in  a 
frying  pan  before  serving.  Tender 
meat  from  cooked  poultry  adds  ele- 
gance to  many  easy-to-prepare  dishes, 
such  as  casseroles,  souffles,  pies,  a  la 
kings,  sandwiches,  salads,  etc. 

In  the  recipes,  the  kinds  of  poultry 
(turkey,  chicken,  duck,  guinea,  or 
goose)  can  be  used  interchangeably,  or 
you  may  substitute  rabbit  for  poultry. 
Some  recipes  contain  shortcut  methods 
of  preparation. 

124 


STUFFING  FOR  POULTRY 

About  1  quart  stuffing 

%  cup  chopped  celery 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion 

3  tablespoons    poultry    fat,    butter,    or 
margarine 

3  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 

Y%  teaspoon  poultry  seasoning 

H  teaspoon  salt 

y»  teaspoon  pepper 

Yi  cup  poultry  broth  or  milk  (optional) 

1  quart  soft  bread  cubes 

Slowly  cook  the  celery  and  onions  in 
fat  until  tender. 

Blend  in  parsley,  poultry  seasoning, 
salt,  pepper,  and  broth*  or  milk. 

Pour  mixture  over  bread  and  toss 
lightly  until  well  blended. 

See  earlier  instructions  for  stuffing 
poultry,  or  bake  in  a  separate  pan.  If 
stuffing  is  baked  in  a  separate  pan, 
baste  with  drippings  for  added  flavor. 

Allow  about  }i  cup  stuffing  for  each 
pound  of  ready-to-cook  poultry. 

Oyster  Stuffing:  Omit  the  celery  and 
reduce  parsley  and  onion  to  1  table- 
spoon each.  Add  %  pint  oysters,  heated 
in  their  own  liquid  and  drained. 

Nut  Stuffing:  Omit  the  parsley  and 
poultry  seasonings  and  add  %  cup  of 
chopped  nut  meats — pecans,  roasted 
almonds,  filberts,  or  cooked  chestnuts. 

Cornbread  Stuffing:  Use  cornbread 
crumbs  in  place  of  bread  cubes. 

BROWN  POULTRY  GRAVY 

{moderately  thick) 
About  2  cups  gravy 

}{  cup  flour 

2  to  4  tablespoons  poultry  fat  from  drip- 
pings 

2  cups  poultry  broth,  milk,  or  water 

Blend  flour  into  fat.  Brown  over  low 
heat.  (If  brown  drippings  are  used,  it 
is  not  necessary  to  brown  the  flour.) 

Add  liquid  slowly,  while  stirring 
constantly. 

Cook  until  gravy  thickens,  stirring 
constantly. 

Season  to  taste. 

For  variety:  Giblet  gravy — Add  ){ 
cup  chopped,  cooked  giblets. 


HOT  TURKEY  STUFFING  SANDWICH 

6  servings 

6  slices  hot  turkey 

12  slices  hot  baked  stuffing 

2  cups  hot  poultry  gravy 

Place  the  turkey  between  2  slices  of 
stuffing. 

Cover  with  gravy. 
Serve  immediately. 

STUFFING 

{For  Hot  Turkey  Sandwich) 

y*  cup  chopped  onion 

y%  cup  chopped  celery 

}{  cup  turkey  fat,  butter,  or  margarine 

1  cup  turkey  broth  (unsalted) 

1  teaspoon  salt* 

1  teaspoon  poultry  seasoning 

2  eggs 

2  quarts  cubed  bread 

Slowly  cook  the  onion  and  celery  in 
fat  until  tender. 

Add  broth,  salt,  poultry  seasoning, 
and  egg.  Mix  well. 

Pour  mixture  over  bread  and  toss 
lightly  until  well  blended. 

Pack  lightly  into  greased  loaf  pans. 

Bake  in  a  preheated  350°  F.  oven 
(moderate)  for  45  minutes. 

Cool  slightly.  Remove  from  pan  and 
slice  into  12  slices. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

6  servings,  about  %  cup  each 

3  cups  diced  cooked  chicken 
}i  cup  chopped  sweet  pickles 
1  cup  diced  celery 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion 

1  tablespoon  sweet  pickle  liquid 

%  cup  mayonnaise 

1  teaspoon  salt 

}i  teaspoon  prepared  mustard 

Combine  all  ingredients,  toss  lightly. 

Chill. 

Serve  on  crisp  salad  greens. 

For  variety,  Hawaiian  salad:  Use 
pineapple  tidbits  in  place  of  pickle 
and  onion.  Use  1  teaspoon  soy  sauce 
in  place  of  pickle  juice.  Top  salad 
with  toasted  almond  slivers. 


*If  seasoned  broth  is  used,  reduce  salt  in 
recipe. 


TURKEY-AVOCADO  CUTLET 

10  cutlets,  %  cup  each 

1J4  cups  milk 

)i  cup  flour 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

2  cups  diced,  cooked  turkey 

2  cups  diced  avocado 

1  egg 

%  cup  fine,  dry  breadcrumbs 

\\i  teaspoons  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  onion 
}i  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
Fat  for  frying 

Coating 

}i  cup  flour 

2  beaten  eggs 

3  cups  fine,  dry  breadcrumbs 

Gradually  stir  milk  into  flour. 

Add  butter  or  margarine.  Slowly 
cook  over  low  heat  (or  hot  water) 
until  very  thick,  stirring  constantly. 

Combine  sauce,  turkey,  avocado, 
egg,  %  cup  of  crumbs,  salt,  pepper, 
onion,  and  the  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Chill.  (Do  not  hold  mixture  more 
than  a  few  hours.) 

Shape  into  cutlets. 

Roll  cutlets  in  flour,  gently  dip 
into  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  crumbs. 

Fry  in  deep  fat  at  375°  F.  until 
golden  brown.  Drain  and  serve  im- 
mediately. 

CHICKEN  CORN  CASSEROLE 

6  servings,  about  %  cup  each 

VA  cups  chicken  broth  (unsalted) 

>i  cup  flour 

)i  cup  chicken  fat,  butter,  or  margarine 

1  teaspoon  salt* 

}{ teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion 
l}i  cups  chopped  cooked  chicken 

1  cup  drained,  canned,  whole  kernel  corn 
#  cupshredded cheese (orfinely  chopped) 

2  tablespoons  chopped  pimiento 
}i  cup  fine,  dry  breadcrumbs 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  or  margarine 

Gradually  stir  broth  into  flour. 

Add  fat,  salt,  pepper,  and  onion. 
Cook  slowly  until  thickened,  stir  often. 

Blend  chicken,  corn,  cheese,  and 
pimiento  into  the  sauce. 

*If  seasoned  broth  is  used,  reduce  salt  in 
recipe. 

125 


USDA  inspectors  check  a  chicken  at  poultry  processing  plant  in  Delaware. 


Place  in  a  1 -quart  baking  pan  or 
casserole. 

Top  with  breadcrumbs  mixed  with 
butter  or  margarine. 

Bake  in  a  preheated  350°  F.  oven 
(moderate)  for  about  45  minutes  or 
until  the  crumbs  are  brown  and  the 
mixture  is  hot. 

SCALLOPED  TURKEY  AND  VEGETABLE 

6  servings,  about  }i  cup  each 

3  tablespoons  chopped  onion 

1  cup  diced  celery 

Yi  cup  diced  carrots 

%  cup  frozen  or  fresh  green  peas 

1  cup  turkey  gravy,  moderately  thick 

2  cups  chopped,  cooked  turkey 
Yt  cup  sour  cream 

}i  teaspoon  salt* 

1  tablespoon  parsley  flakes 

Y*  cup  fine,  dry  breadcrumbs 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  or  margarine 

Cook  onion,  celery,  carrots,  and  peas 
in  small  amount  of  water  until  tender, 
about  15  minutes.  Drain. 

Combine  vegetables  with  gravy, 
turkey,  sour  cream,  salt,  and  parsley 
flakes. 

Place  in  a  1 -quart  baking  pan  or 
casserole. 

Top  with  crumbs  mixed  with  butter 
or  margarine. 


Bake  in  a  preheated  350°  F.  oven 
(moderate)  for  30  minutes  or  until 
crumbs  are  brown  and  mixture  is  hot. 

(This  is  an  excellent  way  for  using 
leftover  cooked  vegetables,  gravy,  and 
cooked  turkey.) 


ZESTY  CREAMED  TURKEY 

6  servings,  about  }i  cup  each 

i  cup  chopped  onion 
Yt  cup  turkey  fat,   butter,  or  margarine 
3  tablespoons  flour 
V/i  cups  turkey  broth  (unsalted) 
Yi  cup  light  cream  or  milk 
Yi  teaspoon  salt* 
2  teaspoons  curry  powder 
Y*  teaspoon  ginger 
3Yi  cups  chopped,  cooked  turkey 

Slowly  cook  the  onion  in  fat  until 
it  is  tender. 

Blend  in  the  flour. 

Stir  in  broth  and  cream  or  milk. 
Cook  mixture  until  it  is  thickened, 
stirring  often. 

Add  salt,  curry  powder,  ginger,  and 
turkey. 

Cook  over  low  heat  (or  hot  water) 
until  hot — about  15  minutes. 

Serve  over  rice,  chow  mein  noodles, 
or  toast. 


♦If  seasoned  vegetables  and  gravy  are  used, 
reduce  salt  in  recipe. 

126 


•If  seasoned  broth  is  used,  reduce  salt  in 
recipe. 


Rose  G.  Kerr 


Sawy  With  Seafood 
in  the  Store  and 
Kitchen  for  That 
Tang  of  the  Deep 


Did  you  know  there  are  more  than 
240  species  of  fish  and  shellfish  sold 
in  the  United  States?  When  you  are 
looking  for  variety,  they  give  you  more 
choice  than  any  other  food  group. 
You  can  buy  fish  and  shellfish  fresh, 
frozen,  canned,  cured,  and  in  a  wide 
variety  of  convenience  and  specialty 
products. 

Most  varieties  of  fresh  fish  and 
shellfish,  like  many  other  foods,  are 
at  their  best  at  the  peak  of  the  season. 
Your  local  dealer  can  advise  you  about 
seasonal  offerings  and  help  you  select 
the  species  best  suited  to  your  needs. 
The  less  known  types  are  often  as 
satisfactory  as  the  better  known  ones 
and  are  usually  less  expensive. 

Fresh  whole  or  dressed  fish  should 
have  these  characteristics:  odor — fresh 
and  mild;  eyes — bright,  clear,  and 
full;  gills — red  and  free  from  slime; 
skin — iridescent;  and  flesh — firm  and 
elastic,  not  separating  from  the  bones. 
Fresh  fillets,  steaks,  and  chunks  should 
also  have  a  mild,  fresh  odor,  and 
fresh-cut  appearing  flesh  without  any 
traces  of  browning  or  drying. 

Frozen  fish  and  shellfish  are  avail- 
able the  year  round.  Their  packages 
should    be   solidly  frozen   and   have 


little  or  no  odor.  The  wrapping  should 
be  of  a  moisture-vapor-proof  material 
with  little  or  no  air  space  between  the 
seafood  and  the  wrapping.  An  ice 
glaze  is  sometimes  utilized  to  protect 
dressed  fish,  shrimp,  and  steaks  from 
drying  out.  A  white  cottony  appear- 
ance, a  brownish  tinge,  or  any  dis- 
coloration in  the  frozen  flesh  indicate 
poor  quality. 

Canned  and  cured  fish  and  shellfish 
also  are  usually  available  the  year 
round.  A  wide  variety  of  canned, 
pickled,  salted,  smoked,  and  spiced 
fish  and  shellfish  is  available  on  the 
market  today. 

Fish  and  shellfish  are  sold  in  many 
different  forms  or  cuts.  Learning  to 
recognize  these  forms,  and  how  best  to 
use  them,  is  very  important  in  buying 
and  serving  fish  and  shellfish.  Unless 
otherwise  stated,  most  market  forms  of 
fish  and  shellfish  are  available  both 
fresh  and  frozen,  are  usually  sold  by 
weight,  and  are  ready  to  cook,  heat, 
or  serve  as  purchased. 

Market  Forms  of  Fish:  In  this  country 
"fish"  means  fin  fish.  The  different 
market  forms  of  fish  are : 

Whole  fish  are  sold  just  as  they  come 
from  the  water.  Before  cooking,  the 
fish  must  be  scaled,  eviscerated,  and 
usually  the  head,  tail,  and  fins  re- 
moved. Some  small  fish,  like  smelt,  are 
often  cooked  with  only  their  entrails 
removed. 

Dressed  fish  are  scaled,  eviscerated, 
and  sometimes  the  head,  tail,  and  fins 
removed.  The  smaller  size  fish  are 
called  pan-dressed. 

Steaks  are  cross  section  slices  from 
a  large  dressed  fish  cut  %  to  1  inch 
thick.  A  cross  section  of  the  backbone 
is  usually  the  only  bone  in  a  steak. 
Chunks  are  cross  sections  of  a  large 
dressed  fish.  A  cross  section  of  the 
backbone  is  usually  the  only  bone  in  a 
chunk. 

Single  fillets,  the  most  common  type, 
are  the  sides  of  the  fish  cut  lengthwise 
away  from  the  backbone.  They  are 


Rose  G.  Kerr  is  Chief  of  the  National  Home 
Economics  Research  Center,  Bureau  of  Commercial 
Fisheries,  U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior. 


127 


practically  boneless  and  may  or  may 
not  be  skinned.  Butterfly  fillets  are  the 
two  sides  of  the  fish  cut  lengthwise 
away  from  the  backbone  and  held 
together  by  the  uncut  flesh  and  skin 
of  the  belly.  These  fillets  are  practically 
boneless. 

Frozen  raw  or  fried  breaded  fish 
portions  are  cut  from  frozen  fish  blocks, 
coated  with  a  batter,  breaded,  pack- 
aged, and  frozen.  Portions  weigh  more 
than  1  %  ounces  and  are  at  least  %  inch 
thick.  Raw  portions  must  contain  not 
less  than  75  percent  and  fried  portions 
not  less  than  65  percent  fish  flesh,  ac- 
cording to  U.S.  Department  of  the 
Interior  (USDI)  standards.  They  may 
be  purchased  raw  or  partially  cooked.' 

Frozen  fried  sticks  are  cut  from 
frozen  fish  blocks,  coated  with  a  batter, 
breaded,  partially  cooked,  packaged, 
and  frozen.  Fried  fish  sticks  weigh  up 
to  1  }£  ounces,  must  be  at  least  %  inch 
thick,  and  contain  not  less  than  60  per- 
cent fish  flesh,  according  to  USDI 
standards. 

Canned  fish  are  packed  in  a  great 
variety  of  convenience  and  specialty 
items,  as  well  as  the  ever  popular  tuna, 
salmon,  and  Maine  sardines. 

MARKET  FORMS  OF  FISH 


Dressed  fish 


Steaks 


Chunks 


Single  fillet 


Butterfly  fillet 


Tuna  is  packed  from  six  species.  The 
catch  includes  albacore,  blackfin,  blue- 
fin,  skipjack,  yellowfin,  and  litde  tuna. 
Albacore  has  lighter  meat  than  the 
others  and  is  the  only  tuna  permitted 
to  be  labeled  "white  meat"  tuna.  The 
other  species  are  labeled  "light  meat" 
tuna.  Canned  tuna  is  packed  in  oil  or 
water.  In  descending  order  of  price, 
the  packs  of  tuna  are:  solid,  chunk, 
and  flaked  or  grated. 

Salmon  is  packed  from  five  species. 
Canned  salmon  is  usually  sold  by  the 
name  of  the  fish,  since  there  is  a  differ- 
ence in  the  color,  texture,  and  flavor  of 
the  salmon.  Higher  priced  varieties  are 
deeper  red  in  color  and  have  a  higher 
oil  content.  In  descending  order  of 
price,  the  packs  of  salmon  are :  red  or 
sockeye;  chinook  or  king;  medium  red, 
silver,  or  coho;  pink;  chum  or  keta. 

Cured  fish  are  processed  from  many 
different  species.  Some  of  the  more 
common  cured  fish  on  the  market  are 
pickled  and  spiced  herring;  salt  cod 
and  salmon;  smoked  chubs,  salmon, 
and  whitefish;  as  well  as  many  conven- 
ience and  specialty  items. 

Market  Forms  of  Shellfish:  In  this 
country  "shellfish"  means  crustaceans 
and  mollusks.  The  crustaceans  include 
crabs,  lobsters,  and  shrimp.  Clams, 
oysters,  and  scallops  are  mollusks. 

Several  species  of  clams  are  widely 
used  for  food.  On  the  Adantic  coast, 
they  are  the  hard,  soft,  and  surf  clams. 
On  the  Pacific  coast,  the  most  common 
species  are  the^  butter,  litdeneck,  razor, 
and  pismo  clams.  The  hard  clams,  or 
hard-shell  clams,  are  commonly  called 
"quahog"  in  New  England,  where 
"clam"  generally  means  the  soft-shell 
variety.  Litdenecks  and  cherrystones 
are  the  trade  names  for  the  smaller 
sized  hard  clams  generally  served  raw 
on  the  half  shell.  The  larger  sizes  of 
hard,  soft,  and  surf  clams  are  called 
"chowders"  and  are  used  mainly  for 
chowders  and  soups.  Clams  are  sold  by 
the  dozen  or  by  weight. 

Clams  in  the  shell  are  just  as  they 
come  from  the  water.  Fresh  clams 
should  be  alive  when  purchased  and 
the  shells  should  close  tighdy  when 
tapped.  Shucked  clams  are  the  meat 


removed  from  the  shells.  The  meat  is 
pale  to  deep  orange  in  color  and  has  a 
fresh,  mild  odor.  Fresh  shucked  clams 
are  packed  in  little  or  no  liquid. 

Frozen  raw  or  fried  breaded  clams 
are  shucked  clams  coated  with  a  bat- 
ter, breaded,  packaged,  and  frozen. 
They  may  be  purchased  raw  or  par- 
tially cooked.  Canned  clams  are  avail- 
able whole,  minced,  or  in  chowder, 
bouillon,  broth,  and  nectar. 

The  three  principal  species  of  crabs 
are  the  blue,  Dungeness,  and  king. 
Blue  crabs  come  from  the  Atlantic  and 
Gulf  coasts  and  weigh  from  %  to  1 
pound.  Dungeness  crabs  are  from  the 
Pacific  coast  and  weigh  from  1 ){  to  2}i 
pounds.  King  crabs  come  from  the 
coast  of  Alaska  and  weigh  from  6  to  20 
pounds.  A  big  king  crab  can  easily 
measure  6  feet  across  from  the  tip  of 
one  leg  to  the  tip  of  the  opposite  leg. 
Growing  in  popularity  are  the  stone 
crabs  from  Florida  and  the  tanner 
crabs  from  Alaska. 

Crabs  in  the  shell  are  sold  fresh, 
frozen,  or  cooked.  Fresh  crabs  should 
be  alive  and  active  when  purchased. 
Cooked  crabs  are  bright  red  and  have 
a  mild  odor.  Blue  crabs  are  sold  by 
the  dozen,  and  Dungeness  crabs  are 
sold  individually. 

Soft-shell  crabs  are  molting  blue 
crabs  just  after  they  have  shed  their 
shells  and  before  the  new  shells  have 
hardened.  They  are  sold  just  as  they 
come  from  the  water.  They  should  be 
alive  and  active  when  purchased. 

Frozen  crab  legs  are  the  legs  of 
cooked  king  and  tanner  crabs  which 
have  been  frozen  and  split  or  cut  into 
sections.  The  meat  is  white  with  an 
attractive  red  tint  on  the  outside. 

Crab  meat  is  the  meat  removed  from 
cooked  crabs.  The  meat  is  packed  and 
chilled,. frozen,  pasteurized,  or  canned. 
The  body  meat  from  Dungeness  crab 
is  white  and  the  claw  meat  has  a 
brownish-red  tint  on  the  outside.  King 
crab  meat  is  primarily  leg  meat.  It  is 
white  with  an  attractive  reddish  tint 
on  the  outside. 

In  descending  order  of  price,  the 
packs  of  blue  crab  are :  Lump  meat — 
whole  lumps  of  white  meat  from  the 


Northern  lobster 


Spiny  lobster 


two  body  muscles  which  operate  the 
swimming  legs;  flake  meat — small 
pieces  of  white  meat  from  the  body; 
flake  and  lump — a  combination  of  the 
first  two  kinds;  claw  meat — brownish 
tinted  meat  from  the  claws. 

Northern  lobsters  are  caught  in  the 
cold  waters  off  the  coast  of  Maine  and 
Massachusetts.  Off  the  coasts  of  Cali- 
fornia and  Florida  another  shellfish  is 
caught  which  is  known  locally  as 
"lobster."  More  properly,  it  is  a  spiny 
or  rock  lobster.  The  large,  heavy  claws 
of  the  northern  lobsters  distinguish 
them  from  the  spiny  lobsters,  which 
have  no  claws.  Lobsters  usually  weigh 
from  %  to  4  pounds. 

Lobster  Market  Sizes 

Trade  name  Weight 

Chicken %  to  1  pound 

Quarters VAtoVA  pounds 

Large l'/fc  to  2>5  pounds 

Jumbo Over  3  pounds 

Lobsters  in  the  shell  are  sold  fresh, 
frozen,  or  cooked.  The  fresh  lobster 
should  be  alive  and  active  when  pur- 
chased. The  "tail"  of  a  live  lobster 
curls  under  the  body  and  does  not 
hang  down  when  the  lobster  is  picked 
up.  Cooked  lobsters  should  be  bright 
red  and  have  a  fresh,  mild  odor. 

Frozen  spiny  lobster  tails  are  spiny 
lobsters  with  their  heads  removed, 
graded  according  to  size,  and  frozen. 
Spiny  lobster  tails  should  have  clean, 
white  meat  and  no  odor.  The  average 
market  size  of  spiny  lobster  tails  is  2  to 
8  ounces. 

Lobster  meat  is  the  meat  removed 

129 


from  cooked  lobsters.  The  meat  is 
packed  and  chilled,  frozen,  or  canned. 
It  is  white  with  an  attractive  reddish 
tint  on  the  outside. 

The  three  principal  species  of  oysters 
are  the  Eastern,  Pacific,  and  Western. 
Eastern  oysters  are  found  or  cultivated 
from  Massachusetts  to  Texas.  The 
large  Pacific  oysters  and  small  Western 
oysters  are  found  or  cultivated  from 
Washington  to  Mexico. 

Oysters  in  the  shell  are  sold  just  as 
they  come  from  the  water.  They  should 
be  alive  when  purchased.  The  shells 
should  close  tighdy  when  tapped.  Live 
oysters  are  sold  by  the  dozen. 

Shucked  oysters  are  oysters  removed 
from  the  shells;  they  should  be  plump 
and  have  a  natural  creamy  color  and 
clear  liquid.  Shucked  oysters  have  a 
fresh,  mild  odor  and  are  packed  in 
little  or  no  liquid.  Avoid  oysters  with 
an  excess  amount  of  liquid  because 
this  indicates  poor  quality  and  careless 
handling.  Shucked  oysters  are  graded 
according  to  their  size. 

Frozen  raw  or  fried  breaded  oysters 
are  shucked  oysters  coated  with  a 
batter,  breaded,  packaged,  and  frozen. 
They  are  available  raw  or  partially 
cooked.  Canned  oysters  are  available 
on  the  market  whole  and  as  stew. 

Many  people  are  not  aware  that 
scallops  are  a  shellfish — a  mollusk  with 
two  shells,  similar  to  the  clams  and 
oysters.  But  in  at  least  one  respect 
scallops  differ  from  clams  and  oysters 
because  they  are  active  swimmers, 
moving  freely  through  the  water  and 
over  the  ocean  floor.  Actively  snap- 
ping its  shells  together  provides  loco- 
motion for  the  scallop  and  results  in 
development  of  an  oversized  muscle 
that's  called  the  adductor  muscle.  This 
excellently  flavored  muscle  is  the  only 
part  eaten  by  Americans. 

The  two  principal  species  of  scallops 
on  the  market  are  bay  and  sea.  Large 
sea  scallops  are  taken  from  the  deep 
waters  of  the  North  and  Middle 
Adantic.  The  sea  scallop's  shell  is 
saucer  shaped  and  sometimes  grows 
as  large  as  8  inches  across.  The  ad- 
ductor muscle  may  be  as  large  as 
2  inches  across.  Small  bay  scallops  are 

130 


taken  from  inshore  bays  and  estuaries 
from  New  England  to  the  Gulf  of 
Mexico.  The  shell  of  the  bay  scallop 
is  much  smaller  than  the  sea  scallop. 
Its  maximum  width  is  about  4  inches. 
In  shape  it  resembles  the  sea  scallop 
except  that  the  shell  is  grooved  and 
has  serrated  or  scalloped  edges.  The 
adductor  muscle  of  the  bay  scallop  is 
about  a  half  inch  across.  Increasing  in 
popularity  are  calico  scallops  from 
Florida  and  sea  scallops  from  Alaska. 

Shucked  scallops  are  the  adductor 
muscles  removed  from  the  shells.  The 
meat  is  a  creamy  white,  light  tan, 
orange,  or  pinkish.  Fresh  scallops 
should  have  a  sweetish  odor  and  be 
packed  in  litde  or  no  liquid.  Frozen 
raw  or  fried  breaded  scallops  are 
shucked  scallops  coated  with  a  batter, 
breaded,  packaged,  and  frozen.  Fried 
scallops  must  contain  not  less  than 
60  percent  scallop  meat,  according  to 
USDI  standards.  They  are  available 
raw  or  partially  cooked. 

Kinds  of  shrimp  in  the  United  States 
are  common  or  white  shrimp,  which  is 
greenish-gray;  brown  or  Brazilian 
shrimp,  which  is  brownish-red;  pink 
or  coral  shrimp;  and  Alaska,  Califor- 
nia, and  Maine  varieties,  which  vary 
in  color  and  are  relatively  small. 
Although  raw  shrimp  range  in  color 
from  greenish-gray  to  brownish-red, 
when  cooked  they  all  take  on  an 
attractive  reddish  tint.  There  is  very 
little  difference  in  the  appearance  and 
flavor  of  the  cooked  shrimp.  Shrimp 


SHRIMP 


Peeled 


Cleaned 


.  INSPECTION  SHIELD 


U.S.  GRADE 


U.S.  GRADE  A  SHIELD 


are  caught  in  all  our  coastal  waters 
from  Maine  to  Alaska,  with  the  bulk 
of  the  catch  coming  from  the  Gulf. 
Shrimp  are  sold  according  to  size,  the 
larger  the  size  the  higher  the  price. 

Headless  shrimp  are,  of  course, 
shrimp  with  the  heads  removed  and 
are  graded  according  to  size.  Fresh 
shrimp  have  a  fresh,  mild  odor  and 
firm  meat.  "Green  shrimp"  does  not 
refer  to  the  color  of  the  shrimp  but  is 
the  term  used  by  the  trade  to  describe 
raw  shrimp. 

Peeled  and  cleaned  shrimp  are 
headless  shrimp  with  the  shell  and 
intestinal  tract  removed.  They  may  be 
sold  raw  or  cooked.  The  cooked  shrimp 
should  have  an  attractive  reddish  tint 
and  a  mild  odor.  They  may  be  pur- 
chased fresh,  frozen,  and  canned. 

Frozen  raw  or  fried  breaded  shrimp 
are  peeled  and  cleaned  shrimp  coated 
with  a  batter,  breaded,  packaged,  and 
frozen.  Breaded  raw  shrimp  must  con- 
tain not  less  than  50  percent  shrimp 
meat,  according  to  USDI  standards. 
They  are  available  raw  or  partially 
cooked. 

Inspection,  Standards,  Grades:  The 
U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior, 
through  the  Bureau  of  Commercial 
Fisheries,  makes  available  an  official 
inspection  service  for  all  the  types  of 
the  processed  fishery  products — fresh, 
frozen,  canned,  and  cured.  The  service 
is  voluntary,  offered  upon  a  fee-for- 
service  basis. 

Under  continuous  inspection,  one 
or  more  inspectors  are  assigned  to  a 
processing  plant  whenever  it  is  operat- 
ing. They  make  continuous  checks  on 
quality  of  the  raw  product,  as  well  as 


plant  conditions  under  which  the 
product  is  being  prepared,  processed, 
and  packed.  This  service  is  made 
available  only  if  the  plant  meets  rigid 
sanitary  requirements  for  facilities, 
equipment,  and  raw  material. 

Products  packed  in  any  plant  oper- 
ated under  the  continuous  inspection 
program,  and  in  compliance  with 
USDI  inspection  regulations,  may  be 
labeled  with  the  official  USDI  in- 
spection shield  which  carries  the  state- 
ment "Packed  Under  Continuous  In- 
spection of  the  U.S.  Department  of 
the  Interior." 

Grade  standards  have  been  estab- 
lished by  the  Bureau  of  Commercial 
Fisheries,  U.S.  Department  of  the 
Interior,  for  a  total  of  15  processed 
fishery  products. 

Quality  grades  for  fishery  products 
are  Grade  A,  B,  C,  and  substandard. 
The  grade  most  widely  sold  in  the 
stores  is  Grade  A.  It  is  produced  in  the 
greatest  volume  and  retailers  have 
found  that  this  high  quality  product 
pleases  their  customers. 

•  Grade  A  means  top  or  best  quality. 
Grade  A  products  are  uniform  in  size, 
practically  free  from  blemishes  and 
defects,  and  possess  a  good  flavor. 

•  Grade  B  means  good  quality.  Grade 
B  products  may  not  be  as  uniform  in 
size  or  as  free  from  blemishes  or  defects 
as  Grade  A  products.  This  grade  may 
be  termed  a  general  commercial  grade, 
and  is  quite  suitable  for  most  purposes. 

•  Grade  C  means  fairly  good  quality. 
Grade  C  products  are  just  as  whole- 
some and  may  be  as  nutritious  as  the 
higher  grades.  They  have  a  definite 

131 


value  as  a  thrifty  buy  for  use  in  dishes 
where  appearance  may  not  be  quite 
so  important. 

If  a  product  carries  a  grade  label  A, 
B,  or  C,  it  must  meet  quality  require- 
ments of  the  USDI  Grade  Standards. 

Any  fishery  products  packed  under 
continuous  inplant  inspection  of  the 
U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior  are 
permitted  to  use  the  prefix  "U.S." 
with  the  grade  designation,  such  as 
U.S.  Grade  A. 

The  brand  name  on  processed  fishery 
products — fresh,  frozen,  canned,  and 
cured — is  also  an  indication  of  quality. 
Processors  of  nationally  advertised 
products  make  every  effort  to  maintain 
the  same  quality  year  after  year.  Many 
stores,  particularly  chainstores,  pack 
under  their  own  name  or  private  label. 

Buying  Tips:  The  amount  of  fish  or 
shellfish  to  buy  per  serving  varies  with 
the  recipe  to  be  used,  size  of  serving, 
and  amount  of  bone  or  shell  in  the 
product.  Allow  approximately  3  ounces 
of  cooked,  boneless  fish  or  shellfish  per 
serving — a  little  less  for  small  children 
and  a  little  more  for  adolescent  boys 
and  for  men. 

In  Washington,  D.C.,  early  in  1969 
a  shrimp  price  comparison  was  made 


that  should  be  of  interest  to  you  as  a 
buyer.  Raw,  headless  shrimp  in  the 
shell  was  selling  for  $1.38  a  pound.  It 
yields  about  8  ounces  of  cooked,  peeled, 
and  cleaned  shrimp.  Therefore,  it 
would  require  2  pounds  costing  $2.76 
($1 .38  x  2)  to  yield  a  pound  of  cooked, 
peeled,  and  cleaned  shrimp  of  the  same 
size  which  was  selling  in  the  same  mar- 
ket for  69  cents  for  4  ounces  or  a  toted 
of  $2.76  ($0.69  x  4)— and  you  do  not 
have  to  peel,  clean,  and  cook  this 
shrimp.  This  cost  comparison  illus- 
trates how  some  convenience  foods  can 
save  you  time  without  increasing  your 
food  budget. 

Be  sure  to  check  the4abels  on  canned, 
frozen,  and  cured  packaged  fishery 
products.  Besides  describing  contents 
and  weight  of  the  package,  the  label 
may  tell  the  grade,  size,  and  species; 
other  ingredients  added;  number  of 
servings;  cooking  or  heating  directions; 
and  recipes  or  serving  ideas. 

Home  Care  and  Storage:  Use  fish  and 
shellfish  as  soon  as  you  can.  If  storage 
is  necessary,  a  rule  of  thumb  to  remem- 
ber is  the  lower  the  temperature  the 
slower  the  deterioration. 

Fresh  fishery  products  should  be 
placed  in  the  coldest  part  of  the  refrig- 
erator as  soon  as  possible  after  pur- 


Approximate  Yield  and  Approximate  Amount  to  Purchase  Per  Serving 


Fish  and  shellfish  i 
purchased 


Yield      Amount  to 

(percent)    purchase 

(ounces) 


Fish  and  shellfish  as        Yield 
purchased  (percent) 


Amount  to 
purchase 
(ounces) 


Fish           Whole 27 

Dressed  or  pan- 
dressed 38 

Fillets,  steaks, 

and  chunks 61 

Portions  and 

sticks 90 

Pickled  and 

spiced 100 

Salted 72 

Smoked 66 

Canned  tuna 100 

Canned  salmon. .  81 
Clams       In  the  shell: 

Hard 14 

Soft 29 

Shucked 48 

Breaded,  raw  or 

fried 84 

Canned  minced 

clams 100 

Crabs        In  the  shell: 

Blue... 14 

Dungeness  ...  24 

Soft-shell 66 


11 
8 
5 

3i/2 
3 

4V4 

4i/2 

3 

33/4 

211/2 

10% 
6V52 

334 

3 

21)4 

4fe 


King  crab 

legs 52  6 

Cooked  meat 97  314 

Canned  meat 85  3ys 

Lobsters       In  the  shell 25  12 

Spiny  lobster 

tails 51  6 

Cooked  meat 91  3% 

Oysters        In  the  shell 12  25 

Shucked 48  6M> 

Breaded,  raw  or 

fried ■. 88  3y2 

Canned  whole 100  3 

Scallops      Shucked 63  5 

Breaded,  raw  or 

fried 87  3V4 

Shrimp        Headless 50  6 

Peeled  and 

cleaned 62  5 

Cooked,  peeled, 

and  cleaned. .. .  100  3Vi 
Breaded,  raw 

or  fried 86  3y2 

Canned 

whole 100  3 


132 


chase.  A  refrigerator  temperature  of 
35°  to  40°  F.  is  needed  to  maintain  a 
quality  product.  It  is  a  good  idea  to 
have  a  refrigerator  thermometer  so  you 
can  check  the  temperature  periodically. 

Prepackaged  fish  and  shellfish  may 
be  stored  in  the  refrigerator  in  the 
original  packaging.  These  wrappings 
or  containers  are  designed  for  short 
time  refrigeration.  Fresh  fish  and  shell- 
fish wrapped  in  butcher  paper  should 
be  unwrapped,  placed  on  a  plate  or 
tray,  and  covered  with  aluminum  foil 
or  plastic  wrap  before  refrigerating. 
Do  not  hold  fresh  fish  or  shellfish  in  the 
refrigerator  longer  than  1  or  2  days 
before  cooking. 

Frozen  fishery  products  should  be 
placed  in  the  freezer  or  frozen  food 
compartment  of  the  refrigerator  imme- 
diately after  purchase,  unless  they  are 
to  be  thawed  for  cooking.  A  freezer 
temperature  of  0°  F.  or  below  is  needed 
to  maintain  quality  products.  Since 
frozen  food  compartments  of  some 
home  refrigerators  are  not  designed  to 
maintain  a  temperature  of  0°  F.  or 
below,  fishery  products  held  there  will 
maintain  their  high  quality  for  only  a 
few  days. 

Freezing  is  an  excellent  method  of 
preserving  fish  and  shellfish.  It  can  be 
done  simply  and  effectively  at  home. 
Freezing  does  not  improve  quality,  so 
freeze  only  high  quality  fresh  fish  and 
shellfish.  Keep  clean  all  fish  and  shell- 
fish to  be  frozen,  and  anything  that 
touches  it,  because  freezing  does  not 
sterilize  the  fish  and  shellfish.  The 
extreme  cold  simply  slows  down  the 
changes  which  affect  the  quality  or 
cause  spoilage. 

Usually  it  is  best  to  prepare  fish  and 
shellfish  for  cooking  before  freezing. 
Less  freezer  space  is  required  when  all 
the  waste  has  been  removed,  and  the 
packages  can  be  sized  according  to 
your  family's  needs. 

Protect  any  seafood  to  be  frozen  by 
wrapping  or  packaging  it  carefully  in 
moisture-vapor-proof  packaging  ma- 
terial. Suit  the  packaging,  such  as 
bags,  cartons,  containers,  and  wrap- 
pings, to  the  kind,  shape,  size,  and 
consistency   of  the   product.    Proper 


packaging  prevents  air  from  entering 
the  package  and  causing  dehydration, 
oxidation,  and  freezer  burn.  Label 
each  package  with  the  date,  kind,  and 
type  of  product,  and  the  weight  or 
number  of  servings. 

Freeze  at  0°  F.  or  below,  following 
directions  that  came  with  your  freezer. 
Store  frozen  seafood  at  0°  F.  or  below. 
For  maximum  quality  do  not  hold 
raw,  frozen  fishery  products  in  the 
freezer  longer  than  4  to  6  months. 

Cooked  fishery  products  may  be 
stored  either  in  the  refrigerator  or 
freezer.  If  stored  in  the  refrigerator, 
cooked  fish  or  shellfish  should  be 
placed  in  a  covered  container.  Do  not 
hold  cooked  seafood  in  the  refrigerator 
longer  than  3  or  4  days.  It  may  also 
be  stored  in  the  freezer  if  packaged  in 
a  moisture- vapor- proof  material.  For 
best  quality,  do  not  hold  cooked  fish 
or  shellfish  in  the  freezer  longer  than 
2  or  3  months. 

Canned  fish  should  be  stored  in  a 
cool,  dry  place.  It  should  not  be  stored 
longer  than  a  year. 

Pickled,  salted,  smoked,  and  spiced 
fishery  products  should  be  stored  in 
the  refrigerator.  Cured  fishery  prod- 
ucts will  keep  for  several  weeks  in  the 
refrigerator. 

Thaw  fish  and  shellfish  just  before 
cooking.  Refrigerator  thawing  is  best. 
Allow  24  hours  for  thawing  a  1 -pound 
package.  If  quicker  thawing  is  neces- 
sary, place  the  wrapped  package  under 
cold  running  water  to  thaw.  Allow 
about  an  hour  for  thawing  a  1 -pound 
package.  Do  not  thaw  fish  or  shellfish 
at  room  temperature  or  in  warm 
water. 

Frozen  breaded  fishery  products 
should  not  be  thawed  before  cooking. 
Frozen  fillets,  steaks,  and  shrimp  may 
be  cooked  without  thawing  if  addi- 
tional cooking  time  is  allowed.  Fillets, 
steaks,  or  shrimp  to  be  breaded  or 
stuffed  should  be  thawed. 

Tips  on  Cooking:  Fish  and  shellfish 
are  an  excellent  source  of  high  quality 
protein  and  also  provide  minerals  and 
vitamins  so  necessary  for  good  nutri- 
tion. You  can  prepare  fishery  products 
in  an  amazing  variety  of  ways — such 

133 


as  baked,  broiled,  fried,  poached, 
grilled,  and  steamed.  In  planning 
menus,  seafood  can  be  the  star  in  any 
course — appetizer,  cocktail,  soup,  or 
salad,  as  well  as  the  main  dish. 

Although  raw  fish  is  enjoyed  in 
various  countries  of  the  world,  cooking 
fish  and  shellfish  is  necessary  to  make 
it  acceptable  for  most  Americans.  You 
can  easily  learn  to  cook  any  seafood 
so  it  will  be  tender,  flavorful,  moist, 
and  appetizing  in  appearance.  Just 
use  a  moderate  temperature  and  short 
cooking  time — and  you  have  won  the 
battle. 

Fish  and  shellfish  are  cooked  to 
develop  flavor  and  to  soften  the  small 
amount  of  connective  tissue  present. 
Seafood  is  naturally  tender.  Cooking 
it  at  too  high  a  temperature  or  for  too 
long  a  time  toughens  it,  dries  it  out, 
and  destroys  the  fine  natural  flavor. 

How  can  you  tell  when  seafood  is 
cooked?  Raw  fishery  products  have  a 
watery,  translucent  look.  During  cook- 
ing the  watery  juices  become  milky 
colored,  giving  the  flesh  an  opaque, 
whitish  tint.  This  change  in  color  is 
quite  unmistakable.  When  the  flesh  is 
opaque  in  the  center  of  the  thickest 
part,  the  fish  is  cooked.  At  this  point 
the  flesh  will  flake  easily  when  tested 
with  a  fork  and  will  separate  readily 
from  the  bones. 

Cooked  fish  is  tender  and  delicate; 
handle  it  as  little  and  as  gently  as 
possible  during  and  after  cooking  to 
preserve  its  appearance.  Also,  serve 
it  as  soon  as  possible  after  cooking. 
Holding  cooked  seafood  at  serving 
temperature  is  the  same  thing  as  over- 
cooking. 

Any  of  the  basic  cooking  methods 
may  be  used.  You  may  vary  these 
methods  by  using  different  seasonings, 
marinades,  sauces,  and  stuffings. 

Baking  is  one  of  the  simplest  ways 
to  cook  fish  and  shellfish.  Once  in  the 
oven,  the  seafood  needs  litde  attention. 
"Bake  it  easy"  is  the  most  important 
guide  to  follow. 

Fish  and  shellfish  will  be  at  their 
finest  when  cooked  in  a  preheated, 
moderate  oven,  at  350°  F.  for  a 
relatively  short  time.  This  keeps  the 

134 


moisture  and  flavor  in  the  seafood. 
Fishery  products  not  baked  in  a  sauce 
or  with  a  topping  are  basted  with 
melted  butter  or  margarine  to  keep 
them  moist  and  tender.  All  market 
forms  offish  and  shellfish  can  be  baked. 

HALIBUT  HAWAIIAN 

6  servings 

2  halibut  steaks  (1  pound  each),  fresh 

or  frozen 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  soft  bread  cubes 
1  cup  drained  crushed  pineapple 

1  cup  cooked  rice 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
%  teaspoon  salt 

}i  teaspoon  curry  powder 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine,  melted 

Thaw  frozen  steaks.  Sprinkle  them 
with  salt. 

Combine  remaining  ingredients  ex- 
cept butter  or  margarine. 

Place  one  steak  in  a  well-greased 
baking  pan,  12  by  8  by  2  inches.  Place 
stuffing  on  steak  and  cover  with  the 
remaining  steak.  Secure  with  tooth- 
picks or  skewers.  Brush  top  steak  with 
butter  or  margarine. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven,  350°  F.,  for 
30  to  40  minutes  or  until  fish  flake 
easily  when  tested  with  a  fork. 

Broiling,  like  baking,  is  a  dry  heat 
cooking  method;  but  in  broiling  the 
heat  is  direct,  intense,  and  comes  from 
only  one  source.  Thin  pieces  of  food 
tend  to  dry  out  under  the  broiler  so 
when  planning  to  broil,  choose  pan- 
dressed  fish,  fillets,  or  steaks  that  are 
around  1  inch  thick  in  preference  to 
thinner  ones.  For  more  satisfactory 
results  in  broiling,  any  frozen  fishery 
products  should  be  thawed.  Baste  the 
seafood  well  with  melted  butter  or 
margarine,  or  a  sauce,  before  placing 
it  under  broiler.  Baste  once  in  broiling 
to  keep  moist  and  tender. 

Follow  your  range  manufacturer's 
directions  for  preheating  and  operating 
the  broiler.  Length  of  time  it  takes  to 
broil  depends  on  thickness  and  size  of 
the  seafood  and  the  distance  that  it  is 
placed  from  the  heat.  As  a  general 
guide  have  the  surface  of  the  fish  or 
shellfish  about  3  to  4  inches  from  the 


source  of  heat,  and  place  thicker  cuts 
farther  from  the  heat  than  thin  ones. 

As  a  rule,  fish  or  shellfish  does  not 
need  to  be  turned — because  the  heat 
of  the  pan  will  cook  the  underside 
adequately.  Turn  the  thicker  pieces, 
such  as  pan-dressed  fish,  when  half 
the  allotted  cooking  time  is  up.  Baste 
again  with  butter,  margarine,  or  a 
sauce.  Always  serve  any  broiled  fish 
sizzling  hot. 

Charcoal  cooking  is  a  natural  for 
fishery  products  because  they  cook  so 
quickly.  Most  of  the  basic  cooking 
methods  can  be  used  on  a  charcoal 
grill — baking,  broiling,  frying,  grilling, 
boiling,  steaming,  and  smoking. 

Pan-dressed  fish,  fillets,  steaks,  crabs, 
lobsters,  scallops,  and  shrimp  are  ali 
excellent  for  charcoal  cooking.  When 
frozen,  they  should  be  thawed  before 
cooking.  Because  fish  flake  easily  as 
their  cooking  nears  completion,  use  of 
a  well-greased,  long-handled,  hinged 
wire  grill  is  recommended. 

Thicker  cuts  of  fish  and  shellfish  are 
preferable  for  charcoal  broiling  and 
grilling  as  they  tend  to  dry  out  less. 
Also,  to  be  sure  of  serving  juicy  and 
flavorful  seafood,  use  a  sauce  which 
contains  some  butter  or  oil  and  baste 
generously  before  and  during  cooking. 
Fish  and  shellfish  are  usually  cooked 
around  4  inches  from  moderately 
hot  coals. 

ALASKAN  KING  CRAB  LEGS 

6  servings 

3  packages  (12  ounces  each)  precooked, 

frozen  king  crab  legs 
Yz  cup  butter  or  margarine,  melted 
2  tablespoons  lemon  or  lime  juice 
#  teaspoon  paprika 
Melted  butter  or  margarine 

Thaw  crab  legs. 

Place  crab  legs  in  a  single  layer, 
flesh  side  up,  on  a  baking  pan,  15  by 
10  by  1  inches. 

Combine  %  cup  melted  butter  or 
margarine  and  lemon  or  lime  juice. 
Pour  sauce  over  crab  legs. 

Broil  about  4  inches  from  source  of 
heat  for  8  to  10  minutes  or  until 
heated  through. 

Sprinkle  with  paprika. 


Serve  with  melted  butter  or  with 
margarine. 

CHESAPEAKE  BAY  SEAFOOD  BAKE 

6  servings 

6  dozen  soft-shell  clams 

12  small  onions 

6  medium  baking  potatoes 

6  ears  of  corn  in  the  husks 

12  live,  hard-shell  blue  crabs 

Lemon  wedges 

Melted  butter  or  margarine 

Wash  clam  shells  thoroughly. 

Peel  onions  and  wash  potatoes.  Boil 
onions  and  potatoes  for  15  minutes. 
Drain. 

Remove  corn  silk  from  corn  and 
replace  husks. 

Cut  12  pieces  of  cheesecloth  and  12 
pieces  of  heavy-duty  aluminum  foil, 
18  by  36  inches  each.  Place  2  pieces  of 
cheesecloth  on  top  of  2  pieces  of  foil. 
Place  2  onions,  a  potato,  ear  of  corn, 
1  dozen  clams,  and  2  crabs  on  cheese- 
cloth. 

Tie  opposite  corners  of  the  cheese- 
cloth together.  Pour  1  cup  of  water 
over  the  package.  Bring  foil  up  over 
the  food  and  close  all  edges  with  tight 
double  folds.  Make  6  packages. 

Place  packages  on  a  grill  about  4 
inches  from  hot  coals.  Cover  with  hood 
or  aluminum  foil. 

Cook  for  45  to  60  minutes  or  until 
onions  and  potatoes  are  cooked. 

Serve  with  lemon  wedges  and  melt- 
ed butter  or  margarine. 

Frying,  one  way  of  cooking  food  in 
fat,  is  probably  the  most  widely  used 
method  of  preparing  fishery  products. 
Choose  a  fat  that  may  be  heated  to  a 
high  temperature  without  danger  of 
smoking — a  smoking  fat  begins  to  de- 
compose and  will  give  to  seafood  an 
unpleasant  flavor  and  odor.  Because 
they  begin  smoking  at  a  higher  tem- 
perature, vegetable  oils  and  fats  are 
preferable  to  fats  of  animal  origin. 

Temperature  of  the  fat  is  extremely 
important.  Too  high  heat  will  brown 
the  outside  of  the  seafood  before  the 
center  is  cooked.  Too  low  heat  will 
give  a  pale,  greasy,  fat-soaked  product. 
The  most  satisfactory  frying  tempera- 
ture for  fish  and  shellfish  is  350°  F. 

135 


Frozen  seafood  that  is  to  be  breaded 
must  be  thawed  before  frying.  Sepa- 
rate the  pieces,  cut  into  portions,  dip 
in  liquid,  and  roll  in  crumbs.  Frozen 
raw  breaded  portions,  clams,  oysters, 
and  shrimp  should  not  be  thawed 
prior  to  cooking. 

After  frying,  drain  the  seafood  im- 
mediately on  absorbent  paper  so  as  to 
remove  excess  fat.  Keep  the  fish  and 
shellfish  warm  in  a  slow  oven  until  all 
the  pieces  are  cooked,  and  then  serve 
immediately. 

Deep-fat  frying,  cooking  in  fat  or  oil 
deep  enough  to  completely  immerse 
the  food,  is  a  quick  method  of  cooking 
and  an  excellent  way  to  cook  tender 
foods  like  seafood. 

You  need  a  heavy,  deep  saucepan  or 
french  fryer  with  straight  sides,  a  fry 
basket  to  fit  the  fryer,  a  deep-fat  frying 
thermometer,  or  an  electric  fryer  with 
automatic  temperature  control.  Use 
enough  fat  to  float  the  seafood,  but  do 
not  fill  the  fryer  more  than  half  full. 
You  must  allow  room  for  the  seafood 
and  for  the  bubbling  fat. 

The  seafood  may  be  dipped  in  a 
liquid  and  coated  with  a  breading  or 
dipped  in  batter.  The  coating  will  keep 
the  seafood  moist  during  frying  and 
give  it  a  delicious  crispness. 

Place  only  one  layer  of  seafood  at  a 
time  in  the  fry  basket  and  allow  enough 
room  so  the  pieces  don't  touch.  This 
prevents  the  temperature  of  the  fat 
from  dropping  suddenly,  and  assures 
thorough  cooking  and  even  browning. 
When  the  fat  has  heated  to  350°  F., 
lower  the  basket  into  the  fryer  slowly. 

FLOUNDER  KIEV 

6  servings 

2  pounds  flounder  fillets,  fresh  or  frozen 

Mi  cup  butter  or  margarine,  softened 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

%  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

}i  teaspoon  liquid  hot  pepper  sauce 

1  clove  garlic,  finely  chopped 
}i  teaspoon  salt 

Dash  pepper 

2  eggs,  beaten 

2  tablespoons  water 
Mi  cup  flour 

3  cups  soft  breadcrumbs 
Fat  for  frying 

136 


If  flounder  fillets  are  frozen,  thaw 
them  out. 

Combine  butter  or  margarine,  pars- 
ley, lemon  juice,  Worcestershire  sauce, 
liquid  hot  pepper  sauce,  and  garlic. 
Place  mixture  on  waxed  paper  and 
form  into  a  roll.  Chill  sauce  until  hard. 

Skin  fillets.  Cut  fillets  into  12  strips, 
about  6  by  2  inches.  Sprinkle  fish  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  hardened  sauce  into  12  pieces. 
Place  a  piece  at  one  end  of  each  strip 
of  fish.  Roll  fish  around  sauce  and 
secure  with  a  toothpick. 

Combine  egg  and  water. 

Roll  fish  in  flour.  Dip  fish  in  egg  and 
roll  in  crumbs.  Chill  for  1  hour. 

Fry  in  deep  fat,  350°  F.,  for  3  to  5 
minutes  or  until  brown  and  fish  flake 
easily  when  tested  with  a  fork. 

Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Remove 
the  toothpicks. 

Pan-frying,  cooking  in  a  small  amount 
of  fat  in  a  frying  pan,  is  an  excellent 
way  of  cooking  fish  and  shellfish. 

The  general  procedure  is  to  dip  the 
seafood  in  a  liquid  and  then  coat  it 
with  a  breading  or  batter.  Heat  about 
%  inch  of  fat  in  a  heavy  frying  pan.  For 
pans  with  a  temperature  control,  the 
right  heat  is  350°  F. 

Place  one  layer  of  breaded  fish  in 
the  hot  fat,  taking  care  not  to  overload 
the  pan  and  thus  cool  the  fat.  Fry 
until  brown  on  one  side,  turn  carefully 
and  brown  the  other  side. 

WESTERN  FRIED  RAINBOW  TROUT 

6  servings 

6   pan-dressed    rainbow  trout,    fresh   or 

frozen 
l/i  cup  evaporated  milk 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Oash  pepper 
yi  cup  flour 
yi  cup  cornmeal 
1  teaspoon  paprika 
Fat  for  frying 

Thaw  frozen  fish.  Clean,  wash,  and 
dry  fish. 

Combine  milk,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Combine  flour,  cornmeal,  and  paprika. 
Dip  fish  in  the  milk  and  then  roll  it  in 
the  flour  mixture. 


Place  fish  in  a  single  layer  in  hot  fat 
in  a  12-inch  frying  pan.  Fry  at  a  mod- 
erate heat  for  4  to  5  minutes  or  until 
brown.  Turn  carefully. 

Fry  4  to  5  minutes  longer  or  until 
fish  are  brown  and  flake  easily  when 
tested  with  a  fork. 

Drain  on  absorbent  paper. 

Oven-frying,  which  is  not  true  frying, 
is  a  hot  oven  method.  Fish  or  shellfish 
are  cut  into  serving-size  portions, 
dipped  in  salted  milk,  and  rolled  in 
toasted,  fine,  dry  crumbs.  The  seafood 
is  then  placed  on  a  shallow,  well- 
greased  baking  pan. 

A  litde  melted  butter  or  margarine 
is  poured  over  the  seafood  and  it  is 
baked  in  an  extremely  hot  oven, 
500°  F. 

Nice  features  of  oven-frying  are  that 
the  seafood  does  not  require  turning, 
basting,  or  careful  watching,  and  cook- 
ing time  is  short.  The  crumb  coating 
and  high  temperature  prevent  escape 
of  flavorful  juices  and  give  an  attrac- 
tive, brown  crust. 

FISH  A  LA  STR0GAN0FF 

6  servings 

6  frozen  raw  breaded  fish  portions  (2}i  or 

3  ounces  each) 
2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine,  melted 
Paprika 

2  cups  cooked  egg  noodles 
2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 
1  teaspoon  poppy  seeds 
Stroganoff  sauce 
Chopped  parsley 

Place  frozen  fish  portions  in  a  single 
layer  on  a  well-greased  baking  pan,  15 
by  10  by  1  inches. 

Pour  butter  or  margarine  over 
portions. 

Sprinkle  with  paprika. 

Bake  in  an  extremely  hot  oven, 
500°  F.,  for  15  to  20  minutes  or  until 
brown  and  fish  flake  easily  when  tested 
with  a  fork. 

Combine  noodles,  butter  or  marga- 
rine, and  poppy  seeds.  Arrange  noodles 
on  a  warm  serving  platter  and  place 
fish  portions  on  top. 

Pour  the  Stroganoff  sauce  over  the 
portions.  Sprinkle  with  parsley. 


STROGANOFF  SAUCE 

About  2%  cups  sauce 

1    can    (4    ounces)    sliced    mushrooms, 

drained 
}i  cup  chopped  onion 

1  clove  garlic,  finely  chopped 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine,  melted 
1  can  (10^  ounces)  condensed  cream  of 

chicken  soup 
}{ teaspoon  paprika 
yi  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  pepper 
1  cup  sour  cream 

Cook  mushrooms,  onion,  and  garlic 
in  butter  or  margarine  until  tender. 

Add  soup  and  seasonings.  Cook  over 
low  heat  for  about  10  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally. 

Add  sour  cream.  Heat. 

Boiling.  Cooking  seafood  direcdy 
in  water,  or  boiling,  is  commonly  used 
for  cooking  crabs,  lobsters,  and  shrimp 
but  may  be  used  for  any  fish  or  shell- 
fish. The  water  may  be  seasoned  with 
salt,  spices,  herbs,  lemon,  vinegar,  or 
wine,  or  some  combination  of  these 
seasonings. 

Place  the  seafood  in  gently  boiling, 
seasoned  water,  cover,  and  simmer 
until  tender.  Cooking  time  will  vary 
with  the  size  and  quantity  of  fish  or 
shellfish  being  cooked. 

SOUTHERN  PICKLED  SHRIMP 

6  servings 

m  pounds  frozen  raw,  peeled,    cleaned 

shrimp 
}i  cup  chopped  celery  leaves 
%  cup  whole  mixed  pickling  spice 
2  quarts  boiling  water 
2  cups  sliced  onions 
5  bay  leaves 
l}i  cups  salad  oil 
1%  cups  white  vinegar 
yt  cup  chopped  pimiento 
2  tablespoons  capers  and  liquid 
1%  teaspoons  celery  seed 
1%  teaspoons  salt 

}i  teaspoon  liquid  hot  pepper  sauce 
Salad  greens 

Thaw  frozen  shrimp.  Rinse  it  with 
cold  water. 

Tie  celery  and  pickling  spice  loosely 
in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth.  Place  in 
boiling  water  and  simmer  about  10 
minutes.  Add  shrimp. 

137 


Cover  and  simmer  3  to  5  minutes 
depending  on  the  size.  Drain. 

Arrange  sliced  onions  and  shrimp 
in  alternate  layers  in  a  bowl.  Add 
bay  leaves. 

Combine  remaining  ingredients  ex- 
cept salad  greens.  Pour  sauce  over 
onions  and  shrimp.  Cover  and  chill 
for  about  6  hours,  stirring  occasionally. 

Drain.  Serve  on  salad  greens. 

Poaching  is  cooking  in  a  simmering 
liquid — milk,  lighdy  salted  water, 
water  seasoned  with  spices  and  herbs, 
or  a  mixture  of  white  wine  and  water, 
to  name  just  a  few  liquids. 

Place  seafood  in  a  single  layer  in  a 
shallow,  wide  pan,  such  as  a  large 
frying  pan,  and  barely  cover  it  with 
liquid.  Cover  the  pan  and  simmer  the 
fish  just  until  it  flakes  easily  when 
tested  with  a  fork.  Because  the  poach- 
ing liquid  contains  flavorful  juices, 
the  liquid  is  often  pardy  evaporated 
by  boiling  and  thickened  so  as  to  make 
a  sauce  for  the  fish. 

As  an  entree,  poached  seafood  can 
be  simply  served  with  a  sauce  or  used 
as  the  main  ingredient  of  a  casserole 
or  other  combination  dish.  Chilled 
poached  seafood  makes  delicious  cock- 
tails and  salads. 

SHANNON  SALMON  STEAKS 

6  servings 

2  pounds  salmon  steaks,  fresh  or  frozen 
2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 
}i  cup  cider  or  apple  juice 
1  teaspoon  salt 
%  cup  coffee  cream 
1  tablespoon  flour 

1  can  (4  ounces)  of  sliced  mushrooms, 
drained 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 

Thaw  frozen  steaks.  Cut  steaks  into 
6  portions. 

Melt  butter  or  margarine  in  a,  12- 
inch  frying  pan.  Place  fish  in  pan.  Add 
cider  and  salt.  Cover  and  simmer  for 
5  to  7  minutes  or  until  fish  flake  easily 
when  tested  with  a  fork.  Remove  fish 
to  a  warm  serving  platter,  and  keep 
warm. 

Blend  cream  and  flour  to  make  a 
smooth  paste.  Add  mushrooms,  pars- 
ley, and  cream  mixture  to  liquid  in 

138 


frying  pan.  Cook  until  thick  and 
smooth,  stirring  constantiy. 

Pour  sauce  over  the  fish. 

Steaming  is  cooking  fish  and  shellfish 
by  means  of  the  steam  generated  from 
boiling  water.  When  cooked  in  steam 
in  a  tighdy  covered  pan,  the  seafood 
retains  natural  juices  and  flavors. 

A  steam  cooker  is  ideal,  but  any 
deep  pan  with  a  tight  cover  is  satis- 
factory. If  a  steaming  rack  is  not  avail- 
able, anything  may  be  used  which 
prevents  the  seafood  from  touching 
the  water. 

Water  used  for  steaming  may  be 
plain,  or  seasoned  with  various  spices, 
herbs,  or  wirie.  When  the  water  boils 
rapidly,  the  seafood  is  placed  on  the 
rack,  the  pan  covered  tightly,  and  the 
seafood  steamed. 

NEW  ENGLAND  STEAMED  CLAMS 

2  servings 

4  dozen  small  soft-shell  clams 
%  cup  boiling  water 
Melted  butter  or  margarine 

Wash  clams  thoroughly.  Place  in  a 
large  saucepan.  Add  water.  Cover 
and  bring  to  the  boiling  point. 

Reduce  heat  and  steam  for  7  to  10 
minutes  or  until  clams  open.  Drain 
clams,  reserving  liquid.  Strain  liquid. 

Serve  clams  hot  in  the  shells  with 
separate  containers  of  clam  liquid  and 
melted  butter  or  margarine. 

For  further  reading: 

The  following  publications  on  fish  cookery 
published  by  the  Bureau  of  Commercial 
Fisheries,  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  U.S. 
Department  of  the  Interior,  may  be  obtained 
from  the  Superintendent  of  Documents, 
Government  Printing  Office,  Washington, 
D.C.  20402,  at  the  prices  indicated. 

Fishery  Market  Development  Series 

No.  1  Florida  Fish  Recipes  (35  cents) 

No.  2  Can-Venient  Ways  with  Shrimp  (35 

cents) 
No.  3  Heirloom  Seafood  Recipes  (20  cents) 
No.  4  The  Letters  from  the  Captain's  Wife 

(70  cents) 
No.  6  Fancy  Catfish  (25  cents) 
No.  7  Seafood  Slimmers  (25  cents) 
No.  8  Let's  Cook  Fish  (60  cents) 
No.  9  Fish  for  Compliments  on  a  Budget  (15 

cents) 
No.  1 1  Flavor  of  Maine  (35  cents) 


A.  Elizabeth  Handy 

Eggs-Nature's 
Prepackaged 
Masterpiece 
of  Nutrition 


The  egg  is  truly  nature's  masterpiece ! 
It  is  a  prepackaged  container  of  many 
important  nutrients  needed  by  every 
member  of  the  family  for  good  health. 

Eggs  are  especially  valued  for  the 
amount  and  high  quality  of  the  pro- 
tein they  contain.  When  you  serve 
eggs  to  your  family,  you  can  be  con- 
fident you  are  giving  them  the  kind 
of  protein  needed  to  build  and  repair 
body  tissues.  In  fact,  egg  protein  is  so 
near  perfection  that  scientists  often 
use  it  as  a  standard  to  measure  the 
value  of  protein  in  other  foods. 

Eggs  also  provide  your  family  with 
significant  amounts  of  vitamin  A, 
iron,  and  riboflavin  (vitamin  B2),  and 
they  are  one  of  the  few  foods  that 
contain  natural  vitamin  D.  In  addi- 
tion, eggs  contribute  smaller  amounts 
of  many  other  nutrients,  including 
calcium,  phosphorus,  and  thiamine 
(vitamin  B^. 

Eggs — the  remarkable  storehouse  of 
needed  nutrients — are  one  of  the  first 
solid  foods  given  to  babies.  They  pro- 
vide the  nutrients  needed  by  children 
and  teenagers  for  rapid  growth.  They 
continue  to  be  important  for  adults 
because  of  their  excellent  nutritive 
value,  taste  appeal,  convenience,  and 


economy.  And  eggs  are  often  in- 
cluded in  the  first  semisolid  diet  for 
convalescents. 

Since  eggs  are  relatively  low  in 
calories,  yet  high  in  essential  nutrients, 
they  also  merit  a  place  in  the  weight 
watcher's  diet,  supplying  only  about 
80  calories  per  large  egg. 

When  you  buy  eggs,  look  for  the 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  grade 
shield  on  the  carton  or  on  the  tape 
that  seals  the  carton.  It  is  your  best 
assurance  of  both  quality  and  size. 
The  grade  will  be  shown  within  the 
shield.  The  size  will  be  found  either 
within  the  shield  or  elsewhere  on  the 
carton. 

The  three  consumer  grades  are  U.S. 
Grade  AA  (or  Fresh  Fancy),  U.S. 
Grade  A,  and  U.S.  Grade  B. 

The  grade  you  will  find  most  often 
is  U.S.  Grade  A.  Often,  AA  quality 
eggs  are  included  in  the  cartons  with 
A  quality  eggs. 


SHIELD  GIVING  QUALITY  AND  SIZE  OF  FRESH  EGGS 

U.S.  Grade  AA  (or  Fresh  Fancy) 
and  U.S.  Grade  A  eggs  have  a  round, 
firm  yolk,  and  a  high,  thick  white 
when  broken  out.  They  are  ideal  for 
all  purposes,  but  especially  for  frying 
and  poaching  where  their  up-standing 
appearance  is  important. 

Grade  B  eggs  have  less  thick  white 
and  the  yolk  may  be  somewhat  flat- 
tened. They  are  good  for  general 
cooking  and  baking. 

Fresh  Fancy  Quality  (or  U.S.  Grade 
AA)  eggs  are  produced  under  USDA's 
Quality  Control  program.  These  eggs 

A.  Elizabeth  Handy  is  the  Home  Economist 
in  the  Standardization  Branch,  Poultry  Division, 
Consumer  and  Marketing  Service. 

139 


Eggs:  Minimum  Weight  Per  Dozen 

USDA  sizes  Weight 

(or  weight  classes)  (in  ounces) 

Jumbo 30 

Extra  Large 27 

Large 24 

Medium 21 

Small 18 

Peewee 15 


reach  the  market  quickly  under  strictly 
controlled  conditions,  guaranteeing  to 
the  consumer  a  fresh  and  top  quality 
product. 

The  six  USDA  sizes  or  weight  classes 
are  based  on  the  minimum  weight  of 
eggs  per  dozen. 

Although  the  weight  of  individual 
eggs  within  a  carton  may  vary  slightly, 
the  minimum  weight  per  dozen  must 
meet  USDA  standards. 

Retail  stores  usually  carry  only  two 
or  three  sizes  in  one  or  two  grades. 
The  sizes  that  you  will  find  most  often 
are  Extra  Large,  Large,  and  Medium, 
since  most  of  the  eggs  produced  come 
in  these  sizes. 

Size  and  quality  are  not  related — 
they  are  entirely  different.  Large  eggs 
may  be  high  or  low  quality;  high- 
quality  eggs  may  be  either  large  or 
small.  In  other  words,  any  size  egg 
could  be  Grade  AA  (or  Fresh  Fancy), 
Grade  A,  or  Grade  B.  The  grade  de- 
pends on  quality,  not  size. 

The  official  USDA  grade  shield  on 
a  carton  of  eggs  means  that  experi- 
enced Federal-State  egg  graders  have 
supervised  every  step  of  the  grading 
and  packing  operations.  It  certifies  the 
eggs  were  a  specific  quality  and  size  at 
the  time  of  grading. 

USDA's  grading  program  for  shell 
eggs  is  a  voluntary  service  paid  for  by 
the  user.  Individuals,  firms,  or  govern- 
mental agencies  that  desire  the  service 
must  request  it  and  pay  a  fee. 

Grading,  sizing,  labeling,  and  pack- 
aging of  shell  eggs  are  controlled  on  a 
State-by-State  basis  in  accordance 
with  State  egg  laws.  These  laws  and 
regulations  are  enforced  by  State 
regulatory  agencies. 

The  Federal-State  service  is  con- 
ducted under  cooperative  agreements 
between  USDA  and  State  depart- 
ments of  agriculture.  It  is  performed 

140 


by  USDA  licensed  graders  who  may  be 
either  State  or  Federal  employees. 

Under  the  USDA  grading  program, 
each  carton  of  eggs  must  be  clearly 
marked  to  identify  the  grade,  the  size, 
the  packer  or  distributor,  and  the  date 
or  code  to  indicate  when  packed. 
Since  the  program  is  voluntary,  re- 
member that  only  cartons  bearing  the 
official  USDA  grade  shield  have  been 
U.S.  Government-graded. 

Although  the  handling  of  shell  eggs 
may  vary  by  State  and  region,  eggs 
pass  through  a  number  of  important 
processes  on  their  way  to  you — the 
consumer.  Some  of  the  steps  involved 
are  frequent  gathering,  careful  han- 
dling, proper  cleaning,  rapid  cooling, 
controlled  temperature  and  humidity, 
proper  grading,  sizing,  labeling,  and 
packaging,  and  a  prompt  movement 
through  marketing  channels. 

With  today's  large-scale  commercial 
egg  production  and  technical  manage- 
ment and  marketing  operations,  it  is 
now  possible  to  move  eggs  from  the 
farm  to  the  retail  markets  within  1  or 
2  days. 

Through  the  Federal-State  grading 
program,  shell  eggs  are  classified  ac- 
cording to  the  U.S.  standards  for 
quality  of  individual  shell  eggs.  These 
standards  are  the  yardstick  used  to 
measure  the  quality  of  the  white  and 
yolk  and  the  cleanliness  and  sound- 
ness of  the  shell. 

Interior  egg  quality  is  determined 
by  "candling,"  which  is  a  process  of 
examining  the  interior  of  the  egg  with- 
out breaking  the  shell.  The  eggs  are 
twirled  in  front  of  a  light  so  the  inside 
can  be  observed.  Years  ago  a  candle 
was  actually  used,  hence  the  term 
"candling."  Later,  a  "hand-candling" 
instrument  was  used  exclusively. 

Today,  large  commercial  operations 
use  electronic  equipment  for  "mass 
scanning"  or  "flash  candling,"  and 
thousands  of  eggs  can  be  examined 
per  hour.  The  eggs  are  placed  in  from 
one  to  12  rows  on  a  continuous  con- 
veyor system  and  mechanically  rotated. 
During  this  process,  skilled  personnel 
observe  the  condition  of  the  yolk  and 
the   white   and    the   cleanliness   and 


soundness  of  the  shell,  and  remove 
any  eggs  that  don't  meet  prescribed 
standards. 

To  further  assure  that  consumers  are 
getting  high-quality  eggs,  another 
quality-control  device — the  breakout 
test — is  used  by  USDA  and  by  industry 
graders.  This  test  is  performed  by 
breaking  out  a  random  sampling  of 
eggs  from  each  shipment  onto  a  flat 
surface.  Yolks  are  carefully  observed, 
and  the  height  of  the  thick  white  is 
measured  with  a  special  instrument 
called  a  micrometer. 

USDA  also  provides  other  voluntary 
services  to  furnish  an  even  closer  check 
on  egg  quality.  These  include  on-the- 
farm  inspection  of  eggs  and  retail  store 
quality  audits  in  which  samples  are 
purchased  from  store  display  cases  and 
checked  again  for  quality. 

Egg  prices  vary  by  size  for  the  same 
grade.  The  amount  of  price  variation 
depends  on  the  supply  of  the  various 
sizes.  Consumers  often  ask  for  a  "rule 
of  thumb"  to  determine  which  size  is 
the  most  economical.  Generally  speak- 
ing, if  there  is  less  than  a  7-cent  price 
spread  per  dozen  eggs  between  one 
size  and  the  next  smaller  size  in  the 
same  grade,  you  will  get  more  for 
your  money  by  buying  the  larger  size. 

When  considering  cost,  remember 
that  1  dozen  large  eggs  represents  1  % 
pounds  (24  ounces)  in  the  shell.  If  the 
large  eggs  are  selling  for  60  cents  per 
dozen,  that's  the  equivalent  of  40  cents 
per  pound — and  very  reasonable  for 
a  pound  of  protein-rich  food.  At  this 
price,  a  serving  of  two  large  eggs 
(weighing  %  pound)  would  cost  only 
10  cents. 

Buy  only  fresh,  clean,  sound-shelled 
eggs.  Do  not  buy  eggs  that  are  cracked 
or  dirty.  An  increasing  number  of 
States  prohibit  the  sale  of  cracked  eggs 
because  they  may  contain  bacteria 
that  might  cause  food  poisoning.  If, 
by  chance,  you  should  find  either 
cracked  or  dirty  eggs  in  a  carton,  they 
will  be  safe  to  eat  if  used  in  thoroughly 
cooked  dishes.  Wash  soiled  eggs  in  hot 
water  immediately  prior  to  using. 

Be  sure  to  purchase  eggs  from  a 
refrigerated  display  case  and  refriger- 


ate them  promptly  at  home  large  end 
up  to  help  maintain  quality.  Shell  eggs 
kept  at  temperatures  between  70°  and 
80°  F.  will  lose  more  quality  in  1  day 
than  in  1  week  under  refrigeration.  At 
refrigerator  temperatures,  shell  eggs 
will  maintain  their  inherently  high 
quality  for  several  weeks,  but  for  best 
flavor  and  cooking  performance,  use 
them  within  a  week. 

Purchase  either  brown  or  white 
shelled  eggs.  The  color  does  not  affect 
the  nutritive  value,  quality,  flavor,  or 
cooking  performance  of  the  eggs.  The 
only  difference  is  in  the  shell  itself. 
Consumer  preference  has  traditionally 
varied  in  different  parts  of  the  coun- 
try— some  people  prefer  white  eggs, 
and  others  prefer  brown.  The  color  is 
determined  by  the  breed  of  the  hen 
laying  the  egg  and  it  may  vary  from 
white  to  deep  brown.  In  other  words, 
shell  color  is  a  breed  characteristic. 

To  replace  the  natural  "bloom"  or 
coating  which  covers  the  pores  of  the 
eggshell,  washed  eggs  are  frequently 
shell-treated  or  protected  by  being 
dipped  in  or  sprayed  with  a  fine  mist 
of  a  harmless,  tasteless,  odorless  oil. 
The  oil  covers  the  pores  and  retards 
the  loss  of  natural  carbon  dioxide  and 
moisture  from  the  egg,  thus  helping 
to  preserve  quality. 

Consumers  sometimes  say  that  eggs 
taste  different  today.  One  reason  for 
the  flavor  change  is  the  hen's  different 
diet  and  environment.  Today's  com- 
mercial laying  flocks  do  not  have 
access  to  feeds  which  cause  strong 
flavors,  and  the  eggs  are  gathered  so 
frequently  that  their  porous  shells  do 
not  absorb  odors  from  the  environ- 
ment. Great  care  is  also  taken  in 
marketing  to  keep  the  eggs  away  from 
foods  with  strong  odors  that  might 
be  absorbed — this  is  also  a  very  good 
practice  to  follow  in  your  home. 

Some  people  wonder  why  the  bro- 
ken-out eggs  seem  smaller  these  days. 
They  say  the  eggs  don't  cover  as  large 
an  area  in  the  frying  pan  as  they  once 
did.  This  is  because  of  the  freshness  of 
today's  eggs.  Fresh,  high-quality  eggs 
cover  only  a  small  area  when  broken 
out.  They  have  a  large  amount  of  thick 

141 


white  which  stands  high  and  firm 
around  the  yolk.  As  the  eggs  age,  the 
amount  of  the  thick  white  decreases 
and  the  white  becomes  thinner,  caus- 
ing the  eggs  to  spread  out  and  cover 
more  area,  thus  making  them  appear 
to  be  larger. 

Yolks  with  colors  of  various  shades 
are  equally  good.  Yolk  color  is  also  a 
matter  of  preference.  The  color  may 
vary,  depending  on  the  hen's  diet. 
Eggs  produced  by  today's  commercial 
laying  flocks  tend  to  have  yolks  that 
are  more  uniform  in  color  and  also 
lighter  in  color  because  the  hens  are 
fed  a  controlled  ration. 

Leftover  yolks  should  be  refrigerated 
promptly  in  tightly  closed  containers. 
Cover  the  yolks  with  cold  water  before 
storing.  Use  within  a  day  or  two. 

Occasionally,  a  small  blood  or  meat 
spot  is  found  in  an  egg.  Although  these 
eggs  rarely  reach  consumers,  the  spot 
can  be  easily  removed.  The  eggs  are 
perfectly  wholesome  and  just  as  good 
as  other  eggs.  These  spots  are  not  a 
sign  the  eggs  are  fertile.  The  chances 
of  consumers  receiving  a  fertile  egg  in 
today's  market  are  extremely  rare. 

With  modern  production  and  mar- 
keting practices,  it  is  also  very  seldom, 
indeed,  that  consumers  find  storage 
eggs  in  the  retail  market.  Most  of  the 
shell  eggs  are  marketed  promptly. 

The  white,  twisted,  ropelike  strands 
of  material  found  in  raw  eggs  often 
raise  questions.  Known  as  "chalazas," 
these  strands  are  highly  concentrated 
white  appearing  on  each  side  of  the 
yolk.  They  are  a  perfectly  natural, 
wholesome  part  of  the  egg  and  serve  to 
anchor  the  yolk  in  place.  Chalazas  are 
found  in  all  eggs,  with  varying  degrees 
of  prominence. 

A  cloudy  or  slightly  milky  white 
occasionally  found  does  not  affect  use 
of  the  eggs.  It  is  a  normal  characteristic 
of  fresh  eggs.  Cloudiness  or  milkiness 
merely  indicates  that  carbon  dioxide 
which  is  naturally  present  in  a  fresh 
shell  egg  has  not  yet  escaped  through 
the  shell.  The  white  becomes  clearer 
as  the  egg  ages. 

Egg  white  sometimes  sticks  to  the 
inside  of  the  shell  of  raw  eggs,  making 

142 


it  difficult  to  remove.  Basically  this  too 
is  because  the  eggs  are  fresher  and  the 
white  is  thicker. 

Leftover  egg  whites  should  be  re- 
frigerated prompdy  in  tightly  covered 
containers  and  used  within  a  day  or 
two. 

Hard-cooked  eggs  should  also  be 
refrigerated  promptly — either  in  the 
shell  or  out.  If  the  shell  is  removed, 
put  the  eggs  in  a  tightly  closed  con- 
tainer or  wrap  them  with  moisture- 
proof,  vaporproof  material.  Use  within 
a  few  days. 

Difficulty  in  peeling  some  hard- 
cooked  eggs  is  associated  with  the 
freshness  of  the  eggs  reaching  today's 
consumers.  Since  older  eggs  are  usually 
easier  to  peel,  use  your  oldest  eggs  for 
hard  cooking. 

The  green  discoloration  that  some- 
times appears  between  the  white  and 
the  yolk  of  hard-cooked  eggs  is  harm- 
less. This  greenish  color  results  from  a 
chemical  reaction  between  the  sulfur 
in  the  white  and  the  iron  in  the  yolk. 
Sulfur  and  iron  are  natural  wholesome 
components  of  the  egg.  To  help  pre- 
vent discoloration,  hard-cook  the  eggs 
at  low  temperature,  avoid  overcook- 
ing, and  cool  them  promptly. 

About  one  out  of  10  shell  eggs 
produced  in  the  United  States  today 
is  processed  into  liquid,  dried,  or 
frozen  form.  For  large  quantity  food 
buyers  and  the  commercial  manufac- 
turers of  food  products,  these  con- 
venience items  are  time,  labor,  and 
space  savers  which  provide  uniformity 
of  the  end  product.  Yet  these  products 
contain  the  natural  goodness  and  the 
cooking  functions  of  the  shell  egg. 

In  1968,  around  72  percent  of  all 
egg  products  were  processed  under 
the  USDA  voluntary  egg  products 
inspection  program.  The  service  is 
available  to  processors  who  request  it 
and  pay  a  fee.  Under  this  program, 
egg  products  must  be  processed  under 
continuous  USDA  supervision  in  a 
sanitary  manner,  in  an  approved  plant 
with  proper  facilities,  and  pasteurized 
in  accordance  with  USDA's  require- 
ments to  assure  wholesomeness  of  the 


products.  Only  officially  inspected  and 
passed  products  may  carry  the  USDA 
inspection  mark. 

Generally,  liquid,  dried,  and  frozen 
egg  products  as  such  are  not  available 
at  the  retail  level,  but  a  few  specialty 
stores  may  stock  dried-egg  solids  for 
use  by  campers  and  hunters.  Some 
companies  also  sell  them  direcdy  to 
interested  persons. 

Each  of  us  benefits — probably  more 
than  we  realize — from  the  egg  products 
industry.  Most  of  these  egg  products 
are  used  by  quantity  buyers  and  in  the 
commercial  manufacturing  of  bakery 
products,  noodles,  macaroni,  mayon- 
naise, confections,  ice  cream,  and  in 
the  growing  variety  of  ready-prepared 
quick  bread,  cake,  frosting,  and  pud- 
ding mixes  now  on  the  market. 
Advances  in  the  egg  products  industry 
have  played  a  large  part  in  making 
these  convenience  or  ready  foods  avail- 
able to  you  and  your  family. 


USDA 


INSPECTED 
'EGG  PRODUCTS | 

00000 

PROCESSED  UNDER 

SUPERVISION  OF 

LUSDA  LICENSED  INSPECTORj 

PLANT  42 


EGG  PRODUCTS  INSPECTION  MARK 

Since  the  food  processors  are  now 
looking  upon  eggs  as  a  new  product 
challenge,  you  will  probably  be  seeing 
more  new  egg  items  in  the  stores. 

Canned  eggnogs  which  require  no 
refrigeration  until  opening,  egg  salads, 
packaged  omelets,  egg  custards,  hard- 
ccoked  egg  rolls,  and  instant  scrambled 
eggs  are  already  available  in  certain 
sections  of  the  country.  Other  fascinat- 
ing new  products  are  still  in  the  testing 
stages  and  may  appear  soon — frozen 
fried  eggs,  packaged  chiffon  pies,  and 
many  others. 

For  breakfast,  lunch,  or  dinner" — 
in  plain  or  party  fare — eggs  are  a 
family  favorite  with  U.S.  consumers. 


During  1968,  we  ate  enough  eggs  to 
account  for  318  eggs  for  each  man, 
woman,  and  child  in  the  civilian 
population. 

Eggs  can  be  used  in  literally  hun- 
dreds of  different  ways.  Cooked  alone, 
they  may  be  scrambled,  fried,  poached, 
cooked  in  the  shell,  baked  or  shirred, 
or  made  into  omelets.  They  also  com- 
bine easily  and  well  with  practically 
all  foods  including  cereals,  breads, 
milk,  cheese,  fruits,  vegetables,  meats, 
seafood,  and  poultry.  They  add  color, 
nutritive  value,  and  flavor  to  foods. 

Suggested  Ways  to  Use  Eggs 

Appetizers: 

Egg  dips,  canapes 
Soups: 

Bisques,  consommes 
Entrees: 

Poached,  scrambled,  fried,   hard  and   soft 

cooked,  baked,  omelets,  souffles,  fondues, 

loaves 
Sandwiches: 

Club,  fried,  hard  cooked,  egg  salad 
Salads: 

Caesar  salad,  mousses,  aspics,  poultry,  and 

fish  salads 
Dressings: 

Thousand   Island,   cooked  salad  dressings, 

mayonnaise 
Breads: 

Muffins,   waffles,   cornbread,   french   toast, 

dumplings 
Beverages: 

Eggnogs— plain  or  fancy 
Desserts: 

Meringues,  pies,  puddings,  custards,  souf- 
fles, cream  puffs,  cakes 


Moderate  to  low  temperatures  with 
proper  timing  are  the  general  rules 
to  follow  in  cooking  to  assure  uni- 
formly tender,  attractive  egg  dishes. 
High  temperatures  and  long  cooking 
cause  egg  protein  to  shrink  with  an 
accompanying  loss  of  moisture,  making 
the  protein  in  the  egg  "rubbery"  or 
tough. 

From  an  early  morning  eye-opener 
to  a  late-at-night  snack,  eggs  are  not 
only  versatile  and  delicious,  but  also 
economical  and  easy  to  prepare. 

You  may  not  realize  how  many 
important  functions  eggs  serve  in 
cooking.  We  use  them  for  leavening 
as  in  cakes,  breads,  souffles,  and  ome- 
lets; thickening  custards,  sauces,  and 
puddings;  emulsifying  mayonnaise  and 
salad  dressings;  coating  for  breaded 
poultry,  meat,  and  fish;  binding  to- 
gether croquettes,   meat  loaves,  and 

143 


egg  loaves;  retarding  of  crystallization 
in  candies  and  in  icings;  garnishing 
canapes,  salads,  and  main  dishes;  and 
for  clarifying  soup  stock. 

A  quick  search  of  any  cookbook  will 
give  you  unlimited  ideas  as  to  how 
you  can  make  eggs  work  for  you. 

Use  all  the  traditional  methods  of 
scrambling,  frying,  poaching,  and 
cooking  in  the  shell,  but  also  be  sure 
to  try  some  of  the  new  and  different 
recipes  you'll  find.  A  few  suggested 
recipes  and  uses  are  included  here. 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

8  servings 

2  cups  hot  milk 

2  cups  shredded  mild  or  sharp  cheese 

2  cups  soft  breadcrumbs 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

Yi  teaspoon  salt 

6  egg  yolks,  beaten 

6  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

Preheat  oven  to  350°  F.  (moderate). 

Combine  milk,  cheese,  breadcrumbs, 
fat,  and  salt. 

Stir  a  little  of  the  hot  mixture  into 
egg  yolks;  then  stir  egg  yolks  into  rest 
of  hot  mixture. 

Gently  fold  in  egg  whites. 

Pour  into  buttered  2-quart  baking 
dish.  Bake  about  30  to  40  minutes,  or 
until  knife  inserted  in  center  comes  out 
clean.  Serve  immediately. 

Variation :  Add  %  cup  finely  chopped 
and  crisply  cooked  bacon  to  mixture 
before  folding  in  egg  whites. 

MOLDED  EGG  SALAD 

6  servings 

1  tablespoon  unflavored  gelatin 
H  cup  cold  water 

}i  cup  boiling  water 
%  cup  mayonnaise 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
}i  teaspoon  salt 

6  chopped  hard-cooked  eggs 

%  cup  sliced  olives 

Y*.  cup  chopped  pickles 

Y*  cup  chopped  celery 

%  teaspoon  minced  onion 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 

Soften  gelatin  in  cold  water,  then 
dissolve  in  boiling  water. 

Stir  gelatin  mixture  gradually  into 

144 


mayonnaise.  Add  lemon  juice  and  salt 
and  mix  well. 

Chill  until  thick  but  not  set. 

Blend  in  eggs,  olives,  pickles,  celery, 
onion,  and  parsley.  Mix  well. 

Pour  into  1 -quart  mold.  Chill  until 
set.  Unmold  on  salad  greens. 

Variation :  Reserve  one  hard-cooked 
egg,  cut  in  slices,  and  several  olive 
slices.  Soften  1  %  teaspoons  unflavored 
gelatin  in  %  cup  cold  water;  dissolve 
in  %  cup  boiling  water.  Add  2  table- 
spoons lemon  juice.  Chill  until  thick 
but  not  set.  Pour  into  chilled  ring 
mold.  Arrange  egg  and  olive  slices  in 
clear  gelatin.  Allow  to  set  before  adding 
above  mixture. 

EGG  SALAD  SANDWICH  FILLING 

6  sandwiches 

6  finely  chopped  hard-cooked  eggs 

Yi  cup  finely  chopped  sweet  pickles 

Yi  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 

Y%  cup  mayonnaise 

Y%  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Ys  teaspoon  pepper 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Mix  well. 
Spread  on  bread. 

Note:  May  be  served  as  a  salad  on 
greens. 

CHOCOLATE  SOUFFLE 

6  servings 

2  ounces  (2  squares)   semisweet  or  un- 
sweetened chocolate 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 
3  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  milk 

%  cup  sugar 

Yi  teaspoon  salt 

5  egg  yolks,  beaten  until  foamy 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

5  egg  whites 

Preheat  oven  to  350°  F.  (moderate). 

Melt  chocolate  and  fat  in  top  part 
of  double  boiler.  Stir  in  flour.  Add 
milk,  sugar,  and  salt,  and  cook  over 
hot  water  until  thick  and  smooth. 

Add  egg  yolks  and  cook  over  hot 
water  for  2  or  3  minutes,  while  stirring 
constantly. 

Remove  from  heat,  add  vanilla,  and 
cool  slightly. 


Beat  egg  whites  until  shiny  and  stiff 
enough  to  hold  a  good  peak.  Gently 
fold  half  of  the  whites  into  chocolate 
mixture;  add  remaining  egg  whites, 
cutting  them  in  lightly. 

Pour  into  1^-quart  straight-sided 
baking  dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 
Bake  for  50  to  60  minutes. 

CHOCOLATE  PEPPERMINT  PUFFS 

5  to  6  dozen 

4  egg  whites 

}/{ teaspoon  salt 

}i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

\}i  cups  sugar 

12-ounce  package  chocolate  bits 

H  teaspoon  peppermint  extract 

Preheat  oven  to  300°  F.  (very  slow 
oven). 

Beat  egg  whites  until  foamy.  Add 
salt  and  cream  of  tartar,  beating  until 
stiff  but  not  dry. 

Add  sugar  gradually,  beating  con- 
standy  until  very  stiff  peaks  form. 
Fold  in  chocolate  bits  and  peppermint. 

Drop  from  a  teaspoon  onto  foil  or 
ungreased  heavy  paper  on  a  cookie 
sheet.  Bake  for  25  minutes.  Remove 
from  paper  while  slightly  warm. 

Variations: 

Chocolate-Coconut  Puffs — Omit  pep- 
permint. Add  %  cup  flaked  coconut 
and  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Chocolate-Nut  Puffs — Omit  pepper- 
mint. Add  %  cup  chopped  nuts  and 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Butterscotch  Nut  Puffs — Omit  pepper- 
mint and  the  chocolate  bits.  Add  12 
ounces  (2  cups)  butterscotch  bits,  }i 
cup  of  chopped  nuts,  and  1  teaspoon 
of  vanilla. 

LEMON  DATE  BARS 

18  bars 
Crust: 

%  cup  butter  or  margarine 
K  cup  confectioner's  sugar 
1  cup  sifted  flour 
1  teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind 


Preheat  oven  to  350°  F.  (moderate). 

Beat  fat  and  sugar  until  creamy. 
Blend  in  flour  and  lemon  rind. 

Press  crust  into  bottom  of  greased 
8-inch-square  baking  pan.  Bake  for 
20  minutes. 

Topping: 

3  eggs 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 

2  tablespoons  flour 

%  teaspoon  baking  powder 
}i  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flaked  coconut 

%  cup  chopped  pitted  dates 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Beat  eggs  until  foamy.  Add  sugar 
gradually,  beating  until  thick. 

Blend  in  flour,  baking  powder,  salt, 
coconut,  dates,  and  lemon  juice. 

Spoon  topping  over  crust. 

Bake  about  30  minutes  or  until  top 
is  firm  and  golden  brown.  Cool  and 
cut  into  bars. 

BAKED  CUSTARD 

6  servings 

4  eggs,  slightly  beaten 
Ys  cup  sugar 

lA  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  hot  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Nutmeg,  as  desired 

Preheat  oven  to  325°  F.  (slow). 

Combine  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt.  Stir 
in  the  milk  gradually.  Add  vanilla. 

Pour  into  custard  cups.  Sprinkle 
with  nutmeg.  Set  the  cups  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water. 

Bake  for  30  to  40  minutes,  or  until 
a  knife  inserted  in  center  comes  out 
clean. 

Variations: 

Coconut  Custard — sprinkle  2  table- 
spoons of  coconut  into  cups  and  add 
custard  mixture. 

Almond  Custard — brown  a  cup  of 
chopped  almonds  in  2  tablespoons 
of  butter  or  margarine.  Sprinkle  into 
cups  and  add  custard  mixture. 


145 


Harold  E.  Meister 
Jennie  L.  Brogdon 


Versatility,  Inc., 
With  Milk  and 
Our  Other 
Dairy  Foods 


You  have  probably  never  gone  a  whole 
day  without  having  milk  and  other 
dairy  products.  From  the  first  meal  in 
the  morning  to  the  last  evening  snack, 
these  versatile  foods  add  flavor,  whole- 
someness,  and  variety  to  our  diets. 

What  are  the  dairy  foods  that  are  so 
prevalent  in  our  daily  meals?  Milk, 
cream,  butter,  cheeses,  and  all  the 
good  dishes  containing  these  foods. 

Milk  may  be  processed  in  a  number 
of  ways.  These  products  include  whole, 
skimmed,  and  flavored  fresh  milk;  cul- 
tured, canned,  and  dried  milk;  fresh 
and  cultured  cream;  and  frozen  desserts. 

Most  of  the  milk  sold  in  the  United 
States  is  cow's  milk.  Some  goat's  milk 
is  available  as  a  specialty  product.  It 
is  used  mainly  by  people  who  are  al- 
lergic to  cow's  milk  or  who  are  on 
other  special  diets.  Goat's  milk  is  sold 
fresh  and  canned. 

Almost  all  fresh  milk  and  cream  on 
the  market  is  pasteurized  to  protect 
the  consumer.  In  pasteurizing,  milk  is 
heated  briefly  to  kill  harmful  bacteria. 
Then  it  is  chilled  rapidly.  Most  fresh 
whole  pasteurized  milk  is  homogenized. 
The  homogenizing  process  disperses 
the  fat  evenly  through  the  milk. 

146 


The  U.S.  Public  Health  Service  has 
set  standards  for  Grade  A  pasteurized 
milk  and  milk  products.  To  earn  this 
grade,  milk  must  be  produced  under 
sanitary  conditions  and  be  handled 
carefully.  Fresh  whole  milk  must  con- 
tain not  less  than  3.25  percent  milkfat 
(sometimes  called  butterfat)  and  not 
less  than  8.25  percent  nonfat  milk  solids 
(protein,  milk  sugar,  and  minerals). 

Many  cities,  counties,  and  States 
have  adopted  the  U.S.  Public  Health 
Service  standards  for  milk.  Others 
have  established  their  own  standards. 

Movement  of  ample  supplies  of  safe, 
wholesome  milk  between  producing 
and  consuming  markets  is  assured  by 
local,  State,  and  Federal  cooperation. 

The  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
has  established  grades  for  nonfat  dry 
milk.  The  USDA  grade  shield  signifies 
that  the  product  has  been  packaged  in 
a  clean,  sanitary  plant  and  that  it  meets 
exacting  quality  requirements.  The 
highest  quality  of  instant  nonfat  dry 
milk  is  designated  U.S.  Extra  Grade. 

U.S.  Government  regulations  pro- 
vide that  nonfat  dry  milk  and  fresh 
skim  milk  may  be  fortified  with  vita- 
mins A  and  D.  Fresh  whole  milk  may 
be  fortified  with  vitamins  and  minerals. 

In  some  States,  you  will  find  filled 
milk  and  imitation  milk  in  the  stores. 
Filled  milk  is  a  combination  of  skim 
milk  and  vegetable  fat;  or  of  nonfat 
dry  milk,  water,  and  vegetable  fat. 
Imitation  milk  is  a  combination  of 
several  nondairy  ingredients  made  in 
the  semblance  of  milk.  The  ingredients 
include  vegetable  fat  which  is  often 
coconut  oil,  protein  such  as  sodium 
casemate  or  soya  solids,  corn  sirup 
solids,  flavoring  agents,  stabilizers, 
emulsifiers,  and  water.  Minimum 
standards  have  not  been  set  to  assure 
nutritional  qualities  comparable  to 
fresh  fluid  milk. 

Coffee  whiteners,  dry  whipped  top- 
ping mixes,  and  most  of  the  whipped 

Harold  E.  Meister  is  Deputy  Director,  Dairy 
Division,  Consumer  and  Marketing  Service. 

Jennie  L.  Brogdon  was  a  Food  Technologist, 
Human  Nutrition  Research  Division,  Agricultural 
Research  Service.  She  is  now  doing  graduate  work 
at  the  University  of  Maryland. 


toppings  in  pressurized  cans  are  made 
from  nondairy  products. 

When  buying  milk,  remember  that 
fresh  milk  and  cultured  milk  cost  more 
than  dried  and  canned  forms.  Milk 
that  is  fortified  with  multiple  vitamins 
and  minerals  is  generally  the  most 
expensive. 

If  you  want  to  cut  food  costs  and  still 
provide  the  milk  which  your  family 
needs,  you  might  try  changing  your 
patterns  for  buying  and  using  milk. 
Here  are  some  suggestions: 

•  Buy  fresh  fluid  milk  at  a  food  or  dairy 
retail  store.  Milk  often  costs  more  when 
delivered  to  the  home. 

•  Buy  fresh  milk  in  multiquart  con- 
tainers if  you  can  use  this  amount 
without  waste.  Usually,  milk  in  %-  or 
1 -gallon  containers  costs  less  per  quart 
than  in  single  quarts. 

•  Use  evaporated  milk  in  cooking. 

Unless  you  rely  on  fortified  milk  as  a 
principal  source  of  vitamin  D,  you 
can — 

•  Buy  fresh  milk  without  added  vita- 
mins and  minerals,  if  there  is  a  differ- 
ence in  price  between  nonfortified  and 
fortified  milk. 

•  Use  nonfat  dry  milk  in  cooking  or  as 
a  beverage.  Some  families  mix  equal 
amounts  of  reconstituted  nonfat  dry 
milk  and  fresh  whole  milk  to  make  a 
beverage. 

Fluid  milk,  cream,  and  cultured  milk 
products  are  at  their  best  in  flavor  and 
nutritive  value  when  they  are  kept 
clean,  cold,  and  tighdy  covered.  Rinse 


OS  Da 


U.S. EXTRA  GRADE' 

PROCESSED  AND  PACKED 
UNDER  INSPECTION  OF  THE 


U.S.  DEPT.  OF  AGRICULTURE 


SHIELD  ON  U.S.  GRADED  NONFAT  DRY  MILK 


off  the  botde  or  carton,  and  dry  with  a 
clean  cloth  before  placing  it  in  the 
coldest  part  of  your  refrigerator  (40°F.) . 
Keeping  these  dairy  products  tighdy 
covered  will  prevent  absorption  of 
odors  and  flavors  from  other  foods  in 
the  refrigerator. 

Don't  let  milk  and  cream  stand  in 
the  light  because  it  destroys  riboflavin 
and  may  cause  an  off-flavor.  Put  these 
products  in  the  refrigerator  as  soon  as 
possible  after  they  are  purchased  or 
delivered  to  your  home,  and  take  them 
out  only  long  enough  to  measure  the 
amount  needed  for  immediate  use. 

Don't  mix  new  milk  with  old  unless 
you  are  going  to  use  it  immediately. 
And  don't  put  unused  milk  back  in  the 
original  container  once  it  has  been 
removed  from  it;  store  this  milk  in  a 
separate  container. 

Canned  milk  can  be  stored  at  room 
temperature  until  opened.  Then  refrig- 
erate like  fresh  milk. 

Keep  dry  milk  at  75°  F.  or  lower,  if 
possible,  until  reconstituted;  then  treat 
it  like  fresh  milk.  Close  the  packages 
immediately  after  using.  If  the  milk 
powder  is  exposed  to  moisture  in  the 
air  during  storage,  it  may  become 
lumpy  and  stale. 

For  best  flavor,  use  fluid  milk  and 
cream  within  3  to  5  days  and  cultured 
products  within  2  or  3  days.  Unopened 
jars  of  sterilized  cream  can  be  kept 
for  several  months  in  the  refrigerator. 
After  opening,  use  within  10  days. 
Pressurized  cans  of  whipped  cream 
may  be  kept  for  several  weeks. 

Milk  that  has  been  frozen  for  a  month 
or  less  can  be  used  although  the  flavor 
and  appearance  may  be  changed.  Do 
not  freeze  sour  cream,  yogurt,  evapo- 
rated milk,  or  cream. 

Most  forms  of  milk  can  be  used 
interchangeably.  Reconstituted  non- 
fat dry  milk  or  evaporated  milk  diluted 
with  an  equal  amount  of  water  may  be 
used  in  place  of  whole  milk  in  some 
recipes.  You  might  want  to  add  2% 
teaspoons  of  butter  or  margarine  to 
1  cup  of  reconstituted  nonfat  dry  milk 
whenever  you  are  using  this  in  place 
of  whole  milk. 

Due  to  the  tangy  flavor,  buttermilk 

147 


Fresh  milk  is  a  key  part  of  a  school  lunch. 


cannot  replace  the  other  forms  of 
milk  in  some  recipes.  If  buttermilk  is 
used  in  place  of  sweet  milk  in  cakes 
and  quick  breads,  use  %  teaspoon  of 
baking  soda  and  %  cup  of  buttermilk 
in  the  place  of  1  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder  and  K  cup  of  sweet  milk. 

If  you  do  not  have  any  buttermilk 
available,  you  can  use  home-soured 
milk.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice  to  1  cup  fresh  milk  or 
to  %  cup  evaporated  milk  plus  %  cup 
water.  Let  stand  5  minutes.  Use  2 
teaspoons  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice 
to  1  cup  of  reconstituted  nonfat  dry 
milk.  Let  stand  10  minutes. 

Sweetened  condensed  milk  is  used 
primarily   in   desserts,   candies,   frost- 

148 


ings,  and  special  recipes  because  of 
the  added  sugar. 

Homogenized  milk  can  be  used  in- 
terchangeably with  nonhomogenized, 
but  you  may  notice  slight  differences 
in  texture.  Sauces  made  with  homog- 
enized milk  will  be  suffer  and  show 
more  fat  separation.  Commercial  and 
cornstarch  puddings  also  will  become 
thicker  when  made  with  homogenized 
milk.  Soups,  gravies,  and  scalloped 
potatoes  will  curdle  more  readily. 

Either  undiluted  evaporated  milk 
or  unreconstituted  nonfat  dry  milk 
may  be  added  to  sauces,  custards, 
mashed  vegetables,  ground  meat  and 
poultry  dishes,  or  baked  goods  to  in- 
crease nutritive  value. 


When  you  reconstitute  nonfat  dry 
milk,  follow  the  mixing  directions  on 
the  package;  for  ease  in  measuring, 
use  1  cup  of  dry  milk  to  3  cups  of 
water.  In  many  recipes,  the  nonfat 
dry  milk  can  be  added  with  the  dry 
ingredients.  Add  the  water  for  recon- 
stituting the  milk  along  with  the  other 
liquid  ingredients  in  the  recipe. 

Both  evaporated  milk  and  nonfat 
dry  milk  can  be  reconstituted  with 
liquids  from  cooked  vegetables  and 
meats  for  creamed  or  scalloped  dishes 
or  with  some  fruit  juices  to  use  in 
puddings  and  in  other  desserts. 

Lowered  temperatures  are  recom- 
mended when  cooking  dishes  in  which 
milk  is  the  main  ingredient.  If  milk  is 
cooked  at  too  high  a  temperature  or 
for  too  long  a  time,  some  of  the  protein 
coagulates  into  a  surface  film  or  a 
coating  on  the  sides  of  the  pan.  Also, 
off-flavors  develop  and  the  milk  may 
scorch. 

Heat  milk  over  low  heat  or  in  a 
double  boiler,  being  careful  not  to  let 
it  boil.  Casseroles  cooked  in  the  oven 
should  be  baked  at  low  temperatures, 
and  custards  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 

Fluid  milk  is  the  major  ingredient  of 
white  sauce.  Learn  to  make  a  smooth, 
well-seasoned  white  sauce  and  you 
have  the  basis  for  many  dishes.  White 
sauce  is  prepared  in  thin,  medium,  or 
thick  consistency,  depending  upon  the 
amount  of  flour  which  is  used  to 
thicken  the  milk. 

Thin  or  medium  white  sauce  is  used 
in  gravies  and  in  creamed  and  scal- 
loped vegetables,  egg,  fish,  and  meat 
dishes.  Thin  white  sauce  is  also  used 
in  cream  soups.  Thick  white  sauce  is 
used  in  hollandaise  sauce  and  as  a 
binder  for  croquettes  and  souffles. 

The  sauce  can  take  on  a  new  iden- 
tity with  added  ingredients  such  as 
mushrooms,  onions,  eggs,  pimiento; 
or  when  seasoned  with  curry  powder, 
dry  mustard,  chives,  parsley,  or  other 
herbs. 

Have  you  ever  prepared  a  cream 
soup  or  other  creamed  dish  that  cur- 
dled? Curdling  results  when  casein,  a 
protein  of  milk,  coagulates  or  clumps 
together.  Such  a  coagulation  can  be 


caused  by  acids  in  foods.  A  high  salt 
content  or  tannins  in  foods  can  also 
cause  milk  protein  to  coagulate.  Toma- 
toes, peas,  carrots,  and  asparagus  are 
some  of  the  vegetables  which  might 
cause  curdling. 

Any  procedure  which  will  keep  the 
protein  from  clumping  together  will 
keep  the  mixture  smooth.  There  are 
several  ways  to  accomplish  this:  Pre- 
pare the  milk  in  a  white  sauce;  stir 
it  constandy  when  the  vegetable  is 
added;  add  the  vegetable  shortiy  be- 
fore serving,  and  heat  briefly.  This 
golden  squash  soup  is  made  using  some 
of  these  procedures. 

GOLDEN  SQUASH  SOUP 

6  servings,  1  cup  each 

1  small  onion,  sliced 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 
}i  cup  flour 

5  cups  milk 

l}i  cups  cooked,  pureed  Hubbard  squash 

(fresh  or  frozen) 
lVJs  teaspoons  salt 
}{ teaspoon  celery  salt 
%  teaspoon  curry  powder 
Pepper  as  desired 
2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 

Cook  onion  in  fat  in  a  large  sauce- 
pan for  a  few  minutes.  Blend  flour  with 
onion;  add  milk.  Cook  over  low  heat, 
stirring  constandy,  until  thickened. 
Remove  from  heat;  gendy  blend  in 
squash  and  seasoning.  Heat  to  serving 
temperature,  but  do  not  boil.  Sprinkle 
each  serving  of  soup  with  parsley. 

There  are  times  when  you  want 
the  milk  to  coagulate;  for  example, 
when  you  use  rennin  to  make  a  junket 
dessert.  A  firmer  clot  will  be  formed 
if  you  do  not  boil  the  milk  and  if  you 
do  not  stir  the  mixture  too  much  after 
adding  the  rennin.  Evaporated  milk 
should  not  be  used  for  this  dessert 
because  a  very  soft  curd  is  formed. 

Yogurt,  which  is  custardlike  in  tex- 
ture and  acid  in  flavor,  can  be  eaten 
"as  is"  or  used  in  desserts,  dips,  salad 
dressings,  or  for  cooking.  When  yogurt 
is  used  in  cooking,  fold  or  stir  gendy 
into  the  other  ingredients  so  that  the 
texture  is  not  changed. 

149 


The  velvety,  thick  consistency  and 
tangy  flavor  of  dairy  sour  cream  adds 
a  gourmet  touch  to  foods  from  appe- 
tizers to  desserts.  As  an  appetizer,  try 
this  dip. 

SOUR  CREAM-HAM  DIP 

About  1  cup 

1  cup  dairy  sour  cream 
1  can  (4#  ounces)  deviled  ham 
1  teaspoon  prepared  mustard 
1  tablespoon  grated  onion 

Whip  dairy  sour  cream  until  fluffy. 
Mix  ham,  mustard,  and  onion. 

Blend  into  sour  cream. 

Serve  with  crackers,  potato  chips, 
or  raw  vegetables. 

As  it  comes  from  the  carton,  dairy 
sour  cream  is  a  ready-to-use  salad 
dressing  or  an  instant  sauce  for  raw 
or  cooked  vegetables  or  baked  pota- 
toes. You  can  also  purchase  a  dry  mix 
for  sour  cream  sauce  that  can  be  used 
for  these  same  purposes.  You  can 
make  a  fancier  sauce  by  adding  in- 
gredients like  chives,  horseradish,  dill 
seed,  onions,  or  nuts. 

When  used  in  dressings  or  sauces 
which  contain  acid  foods  such  as 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  the  sour  cream 
may  become  thin  when  it  is  mixed. 
However,  it  will  return  to  its  original 
consistency  after  the  product  is  chilled. 

Remember  when  heating  sour  cream 
that  it  reacts  as  milk  does  to  high 
temperatures,  and  may  curdle.  This 
may  also  happen  if  it  is  heated  at  low 
temperatures  for  a  long  time.  It  is  best 
to  add  the  sour  cream  near  the  end  of 
cooking  and  to  keep  the  temperature 
low.  If  the  mixture  should  curdle,  the 
appearance  will  be  unattractive  but 
the  flavor  will  still  be  good. 

Sour  half-and-half  may  be  substi- 
tuted in  many  foods  for  sour  cream. 
However,  because  of  the  lower  fat 
content,  do  not  substitute  sour  half- 
and-half  in  cakes  and  cookies  unless 
these  contain  fat  in  addition  to  the 
sour  cream. 

Rich,  smooth  cream  is  an  essential 
ingredient  in  fine  cooking.  Light  or 
table  cream  is  used  "as  is"  for  bever- 

150 


ages,  cereals,  or  desserts  as  well  as  for 
cooking.  Heavy  cream,  in  addition  to 
being  used  for  cooking,  is  used  for 
whipping. 

Thick,  luscious  mounds  of  whipped 
cream  naturally  team  up  with  des- 
serts— as  a  garnish,  as  part  of  the 
dessert,  or  even  as  a  dessert  by  itself. 
Whipped  cream  also  can  be  included 
in  salads  or  party  sandwiches. 

Heavy  cream  should  whip  to  twice 
its  volume.  That  is,  1  cup  (%  pint)  of 
cream  yields  about  2  cups  of  whipped 
cream.  This  volume  is  best  obtained 
with  cream  that  is  30  to  35  percent  fat, 
is  at  least  24  hours  old,  and  is  thor- 
oughly chilled  to  between  35°  and  40° 
F.  It  helps  to  chill  the  bowl  and  beater, 
too.  Use  a  deep,  narrow  bowl  with 
straight  sides  rather  than  a  wide  and 
shallow  one. 

Beat  the  cream  until  it  is  fairly  stiff. 
Be  careful  not  to  overbeat  or  you  will 
have  butter. 

When  the  cream  is  stiff,  fold  in  a 
tablespoon  of  sugar  per  cup  of  un- 
whipped  cream  and  %  teaspoon  vanilla 
or  other  flavoring.  More  sugar  can  be 
added,  if  you  wish.  Do  not  add  the 
sugar  too  soon  or  it  will  take  longer  to 
whip  the  cream  and  the  volume  will 
not  be  as  great.  Sweetened  whipped 
cream  will  not  be  as  stiff  or  as  stable 
as  unsweetened.  You  might  prefer  to 
use  unsweetened  whipped  cream  when 
it  is  a  topping  for  some  desserts. 

Whipped  cream  can  be  frozen  in 
individual  portions  and  used  as  a 
garnish.  This  is  particularly  good  on 
warm  fruit  pies. 

Whipped  instant  nonfat  dry  milk 
or  whipped  evaporated  milk  can  be 
substituted  in  many  recipes  in  which 
whipped  cream  is  used.  For  the  best 
results,  whip  instant  nonfat  dry  milk 
according  to  package  instructions. 
Evaporated  milk  should  not  be  diluted 
when  it  is  to  be  whipped.  Place  the 
evaporated  milk  in  die  freezer  until 
it  is  icy  around  the  edges  and  partially 
frozen.  Then  whip  until  stiff.  Unlike 
cream,  evaporated  milk  triples  in  vol- 
ume so  that  %  cup  of  milk  will  yield 
2  cups  after  whipping. 

If  you  wish  to  serve  whipped  cream 


as  a  dessert,  fold  in  rum,  sherry,  or 
brandy  to  taste  in  place  of  the  vanilla 
flavoring.  Or  fold  in  1  cup  of  apple- 
sauce or  other  fruit  puree  to  2  cups  of 
whipped  cream. 

Ice  Cream,  America's  favorite  des- 
sert, was  also  popular  during  our 
colonial  days.  There  are  many  flavors 
on  the  market,  but  vanilla,  chocolate, 
and  strawberry  are  still  the  bestsellers. 
Frozen  custard,  fruit  sherbet,  and  ice 
milk  are  other  popular  desserts. 

Frozen  desserts  should  be  stored  in 
the  tighdy  closed  carton  at  0°  F.  or 
colder.  If  you  store  ice  cream  in  a 
refrigerator  frozen-food  compartment, 
use  it  within  a  week.  When  the  ice 
cream  is  partially  used  up,  cover  the 
surface  with  a  protective  wrap  so  as 
to  avoid  the  loss  of  moisture. 

Commercial  frozen  desserts  are  ex- 
cellent. But  homemade  ice  cream  or 
sherbet  is  a  treat  worth  your  effort. 
There  are  prepared  mixes  on  the 
market,  or  you  can  find  a  recipe  in 
almost  any  cookbook.  Quality  of  ice 
cream  is  improved  if  the  dairy  prod- 
ucts used  are  homogenized  or  in 
concentrated  form,  such  as  evaporated 
milk.  Adding  gelatin  or  egg  also  im- 
proves quality. 

There  are  two  methods  of  preparing 
these  desserts — stirred  and  unstirred 
or  still  -frozen. 


Versatile  dairy  products  can  be  served  as  ice 
cream,  above;  as  an  ingredient  in  soup,  left; 
and  as  cheese  and  milk  with  a  meal,  right. 


151 


The  stirred  method  requires  either 
hand  or  electric  power  to  turn  the 
dasher  crank.  When  you  first  begin, 
turn  the  dasher  slowly  and  steadily 
to  insure  a  smooth  cream.  Do  not  turn 
the  dasher  too  fast  or  your  mixture 
may  be  churned  to  butter.  When  the 
ice  cream  is  frozen  to  a  mush  (about 
5  to  10  minutes),  turn  the  dasher  more 
rapidly  to  whip  air  into  the  cream. 
To  harden  the  ice  cream  to  serving 
consistency  and  also  to  insure  a  well- 
blended  flavor,  freeze  the  cream  at 
least  1  hour  after  mixing  is  completed. 

Continuous  stirring  in  the  freezer 
keeps  ice  crystals  small  and  incorpo- 
rates air.  When  the  dessert  is  still- 
frozen,  as  in  refrigerator  trays,  some 
other  means  must  be  used  to  keep  the 
ice  crystals  small  and  prevent  forma- 
tion of  a  solid  ice  mass.  This  is  done  by 
rapid  freezing;  by  folding  in  a  fluffy 
beaten  product  such  as  whipped 
cream  or  beaten  egg  white;  and  by 
removing  the  mushy  mixture  from  the 
refrigerator  freezer,  beating  it  until 
well- blended,  and  returning  it  to  the 
freezer  until  firm.  Even  when  these 
procedures  are  used,  texture  of  a  still- 
frozen  dessert  is  less  smooth  than 
that  of  a  stirred  one  because  the  ice 
crystals  are  larger.  These  ice  crystals 
will  continue  to  form  during  storage 
so  that  still-frozen  dessert  is  best  eaten 
soon  after  preparation. 

Ice  cream  is  easier  to  scoop  or  slice 
if  it  is  at  refrigerator  temperature  for 
a  short  time — about  10  minutes  for  a 
pint  and  20  minutes  for  a  half  gallon. 

Butter  is  one  of  our  oldest  staple 
foods.  Recorded  history  shows  it  was 
used  in  India  as  long  ago  as  2000  B.C. 
In  the  United  States,  the  buttermaking 
industry  has  developed  in  stages  start- 
ing as  a  farm  operation;  then  moving 
into  small  plants  receiving  cream  de- 
livered by  horse  and  wagon;  then  to 
larger  central  plants  to  take  advantage 
of  the  savings  in  volume  operations. 
Plants  are  continuing  to  consolidate 
into  larger  units.  Consumers  benefit 
because  these  plants  are  taking  ad- 
vantage of  the  newest  milk  and  cream 
processing  equipment  and  churns, 
automated  packaging  equipment,  and 

152 


sanitary  controls.  All  of  these  things 
play  a  part  in  giving  us  wholesome 
butter  with  a  fine  flavor  and  good 
spreadability. 

Butter  is  made  by  churning  pasteur- 
ized cream.  By  law,  butter  must  con- 
tain not  less  than  80  percent  milkfat. 
It  may  or  may  not  contain  salt.  If 
no  salt  is  added  the  package  is  usually 
labelled  "unsalted  butter."  However, 
in  some  markets  it  is  known  as  "sweet" 
butter. 

The  highest  quality  butter  is  made 
from  sweet  cream,  or  sweet  cream  to 
which  a  culture  similar  to  that  used 
in  cultured  milk  products  has  been 
added.  Cultured  butter  has  a  mildly 
acid  flavor  and  aroma.  Unsalted  butter 
packed  for  sale  to  consumers  generally 
has  this  pleasing  acid  flavor. 

Whipped  butter  is  made  by  whip- 
ping air  or  inert  gas  into  butter.  This 
increases  volume  and  makes  the  butter 
easier  to  spread.  Most  of  the  whipped 
butter  sold  in  this  country  is  unsalted. 

Most  of  the  butter  offered  to  con- 
sumers has  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture  shield  with  a  letter  grade 
indicating  the  butter's  quality  at  time 
of  grading.  The  assigned  grade  is  based 
on  official  standards  and  specifications. 
Tests  are  run  on  the  butter's  "keeping 
quality"  as  a  check  for  wholesomeness. 
Only  butter  manufactured  in  a  plant 
inspected  and  approved  by  USDA  for 
sanitation  and  good  operating  prac- 
tices can  be  officially  graded. 

U.S.  Grade  AA  butter  has  delicate, 
sweet  flavor,  with  a  fine,  highly  pleas- 
ing aroma.  It  has  a  smooth  texture 
with  good  spreadability.  U.S.  Grade  A 
butter  is  made  from  fresh  cream.  Its 
flavor  and  aroma  are  pleasing  but  not 
quite  as  fine  as  for  the  top  grade. 

To  maintain  the  delicate  flavor,  store 
butter  in  the  original  wrappings  until 
ready  for  use.  Keep  in  the  coldest  part 
of  the  refrigerator  and  only  remove  as 
much  as  you  will  use  at  one  time.  If 
butter  is  exposed  at  room  temperature 
for  long  periods,  light  and  heat  may 
hasten  rancidity.  Always  keep  butter 
covered  so  it  will  not  absorb  flavors 
from  other  foods.  The  butter  compart- 
ment on  the  refrigerator  door  keeps 


SHIELD  ON  U.S.  GRADED  BUTTER  AND  CHEDDAR  CHEESE 


butter  at  spreading  consistency.  If  you 
do  not  plan  to  use  the  butter  within  a 
short  period  of  time,  keep  it  in  the 
freezer.  It  can  be  frozen  in  the  original 
container  unless  you  plan  to  keep  it  for 
several  months;  then  it  should  be  over- 
wrapped  with  moisture-proof  material. 

Butter  adds  a  pleasing,  distinctive 
flavor  to  vegetables,  creamed  dishes, 
desserts,  icings,  and  of  course,  to  hot 
breads  and  rolls.  Sauces  that  combine 
butter  with  many  different  kinds  of 
seasonings  are  also  good  and  very  easy 
to  make.  Melt  or  whip  the  butter  with 
parsley,  lemon,  dill,  basil,  or  other 
herbs.  Start  with  %  teaspoon  seasoning 
to  }i  cup  {%  stick)  butter  and  increase 
according  to  your  taste. 

Try  out  your  own  combinations; 
you  might  even  become  noted  for 
your  own  special  sauce. 

A  dessert  hard  sauce  is  made  by 
creaming  butter  with  confectioner's 
sugar  and  flavoring  it  with  extracts  or 
spices  or  with  wine,  brandy,  whiskey, 
or  rum.  This  is  the  traditional  sauce 
for  English  plum  pudding. 

For  any  flour  mixture  that  contains 
a  considerable  amount  of  fat,  butter  is 
a  good  choice  since  it  adds  fine  flavor 
as  well  as  shortening.  It  has  long  been 
a  favorite  for  cakes,  puff  pastry,  and 
butter  cookies. 

Butter  can  also  be  used  as  the  short- 
ening in  plain  pastry,  but  because 
butter  is  only  80  percent  fat  the  crust 
will  not  be  as  tender  as  one  made  with 
another  shortening,  unless  you  use 
more  of  it.  Use  1  cup  plus  2  tablespoons 
of  butter  in  place  of  1  cup  of  vegetable 
or  other  shortening. 

Do  not  use  whipped  butter  as  a  sub- 


stitute for  butter  in  a  recipe  since  the 
shortening  power  is  not  the  same  as 
for  unwhipped  butter. 

Butter  can  be  used  for  pan  frying. 
Don't  let  the  temperature  get  too  high 
or  the  butter  will  smoke  and  brown. 

Because  butter  has  a  low  smoking 
point,  it  is  not  suitable  for  deep-fat 
frying. 

Cheese  is  available  in  many  styles, 
flavors,  and  textures  to  suit  just  about 
every  taste  and  occasion.  The  refrig- 
erated showcase  in  any  modern  food 
market  is  most  enticing  with  its  display 
of  various  shapes  and  sizes  of  cheese 
packages — wedges,  oblongs,  segments, 
cubes,  slices,  blocks,  and  cut  portions. 
For  many  people,  their  adventuresome 
spirit  takes  over  when  they  see  the 
attractive  cheese  display,  and  they  buy 
unfamiliar  varieties  for  the  pure  enjoy- 
ment of  getting  acquainted  with  new 
cheese  flavors  and  textures.  Others  like 
to  choose  with  more  certainty  the  type 
of  cheese  that  will  be  just  right  for  a 
particular  dish,  a  particular  occasion, 
or  to  suit  their  taste. 

With  more  than  400  varieties  of 
natural  cheese  alone,  there  are  bound 
to  be  several  cheeses  for  every  taste. 
You  may  not  like  some  kinds,  others 
may  become  favorites.  If  you  are  used 
to  a  mild  Cheddar,  try  other  mild 
cheeses  first,  and  then  stronger  flavored 
ones.  For  still  more  variety,  the  market 
offers  pasteurized  process  cheese  and 
related  products. 

The  following  information  on  the 
various  forms  of  cheese  available  in 
retail  markets  may  enlarge  your  own 
acquaintance  with  the  cheese  family. 

Natural  Cheese  is  made  by  coagulat- 
ing milk  and  then  separating  the  curd 
or  solid  part  from  the  whey  or  watery 
part.  Most  natural  cheeses  are  made 
from  whole  cow's  milk,  although  some 
are  made  from  skim  milk,  whey,  or 
mixtures  of  all  three. 

Many  of  the  popular  varieties  of 
natural  cheese,  although  originating 
in  Europe,  are  now  produced  in  the 
United  States,  and  are  available  in 
most  food  stores,  delicatessens,  and 
specialty  cheese  stores. 

Many  persons  prefer  natural  cheeses 

153 


to  other  forms  of  cheese  because  each 
has  its  own  characteristic  flavor  and 
texture.  Flavors  range  from  bland  cdt- 
tage  cheese  to  tangy  Blue  (or  bleu)  or 
pungent  Limburger.  Textures  vary, 
too — from  the  smooth  creaminess  of 
cream  cheese  to  the  firm  elasticity  of 
Swiss  cheese.  Flavor  and  body  and 
texture  of  cheeses  are  closely  related 
to  degree  of  ripening  or  aging.  Some 
natural  cheeses  are  used  unripened. 

Soft  unripened  varieties  such  as  cot- 
tage, cream,  Neufchatel,  and  ricotta 
cheese  contain  relatively  high  moisture 
and  do  not  undergo  any  curing  or 
ripening.  Examples  of  firm,  unripened 
cheeses  are  Gjetost  and  Mysost. 

In  the  soft,  ripened  cheeses,  curing 
progresses  from  the  outside  or  rind  of 
the  cheese  toward  the  center.  Particu- 
lar molds  or  culture  of  bacteria  or 
both,  which  grow  on  the  surface  of  the 
cheese,  aid  in  developing  the  charac- 
teristic flavor  and  body  and  texture 
during  the  process  of  curing.  Curing 
continues  as  long  as  the  temperature 
is  favorable.  These  cheeses  include 
such  varieties  as  Brie,  Camembert, 
and  Limburger.  They  usually  contain 
more  moisture  than  semisoft,  ripened 
varieties. 

Semisoft,  ripened  cheeses  ripen  from 
the  interior  as  well  as  from  the  surface. 
This  ripening  process  begins  soon  after 
the  cheese  is  formed,  with  the  aid  of  a 
characteristic  bacterial  or  mold  culture 
or  both.  Curing  continues  as  long  as 
the  temperature  is  favorable.  Exam- 
ples of  these  cheeses  are  Bel  Paese, 
Brick,  Muenster,  and  Port  du  Salut. 
They  contain  higher  moisture  than  the 
firm  ripened  varieties. 

Firm  ripened  cheeses  ripen  with  the 
aid  of  a  bacterial  culture,  throughout 
the  entire  cheese.  Ripening  continues 
as  long  as  the  temperature  is  favorable. 
The  rate  and  degree  of  curing  is  also 
closely  related  to  moisture  content; 
therefore  these  cheeses,  being  lower  in 
moisture  than  the  softer  varieties,  do 
usually  require  a  longer  curing  time. 
Included  are  Cheddar,  Colby,  Edam, 
Gouda,  Provolone,  and  Swiss. 

Very  hard  ripened  cheeses  also  are 
cured  with   the  help  of  a   bacterial 

154 


culture  and  enzymes.  The  rate  of 
curing,  however,  is  much  slower  be- 
cause of  the  very  low  moisture  and 
high  salt  content.  In  this  category  are 
Parmesan,  Romano,  and  Sap  Sago. 

Blue-vein,  mold-ripened  cheese  cur- 
ing is  accomplished  by  the  aid  of 
bacteria,  but  more  particularly  by  the 
use  of  a  characteristic  mold  culture 
that  grows  throughout  the  interior  of 
the  cheese  to  produce  the  familiar 
appearance  and  characteristic  flavor. 
The  well-known  blue-veined  cheeses 
include  Blue  (or  bleu),  Gorgonzola, 
Stilton,  and  Roquefort. 

Pasteurized  Process  Cheese  is  a  blend  of 
fresh  and  aged  natural  cheeses  which 
have  been  shredded,  mixed,  and 
heated  (pasteurized),  after  which  no 
further  ripening  occurs.  It  melts  easily 
when  reheated.  The  blend  may  con- 
sist of  one  or  two  or  more  varieties  of 
natural  cheese  and  it  may  contain 
pimientos,  fruits,  vegetables,  or  meats. 
Smoked  cheese  or  smoke  flavor  may 
also  be  added. 

The  flavor  of  pasteurized  process 
cheese  depends  largely  upon  the  flavor 
of  the  cheese  used,  which  may  be 
modified  by  flavoring  materials  added. 
As  an  example,  pasteurized  Gruyere 
cheese  has  a  nut-sweet  flavor,  some- 
what similar  to  Swiss. 

Process  cheese  is  packaged  in  slices, 
%-,  1-,  and  2-pound  loaves,  and  cut 
portions. 

Pasteurized  process  cheese  food  is 
prepared  in  much  the  same  manner  as 
process  cheese  except  that  it  contains 
less  cheese,  with  nonfat  dry  milk  or 
whey  solids  and  water  added.  This 
results  in  a  lower  milkfat  content  and 
more  moisture  than  in  process  cheese. 
Pasteurized  process  cheese  food  also 
may  contain  pimientos,  fruits,  vege- 
tables, or  meats,  or  it  may  have  a 
smoked  flavor.  The  most  popular  vari- 
ety is  American  cheese  food. 

Cheese  food  is  milder  in  flavor,  has 
a  softer  texture,  spreads  more  easily, 
and  melts  quicker  than  process  cheese 
due  to  a  higher  moisture  content.  It  is 
packaged  in  slices,  rolls,  links,  and 
loaves. 

Pasteurized  process  cheese  spread  is 


made  in  much  the  same  manner  as 
pasteurized  process  cheese  food  but 
generally  contains  higher  moisture,  and 
the  milkfat  content  is  usually  lower.  A 
stabilizer  is  used  in  preparing  this 
product  to  prevent  separation  of  in- 
gredients. It  is  normally  more  spread- 
able  than  cheese  food.  Cheese  spread 
may  contain  pimientos,  fruit,  vege- 
tables, meat,  or  have  a  smoked  flavor. 
It  is  sold  in  jars  and  loaves. 

The  flavor  of  pasteurized  process 
cheese  spread  depends  largely  upon 
the  flavor  of  the  cheese  used,  which 
may  be  modified  by  flavoring  materi- 
als added. 

Coldpack  Cheese  or  Club  Cheese  is  a 
blend  of  the  same  or  two  or  more  vari- 
eties of  fresh  and  aged  natural  cheese, 
as  in  process  cheese,  except  that  the 
cheese  is  mixed  into  a  uniform  product 
without  heating.  The  flavor  is  the 
same  as  the  natural  cheese  used  and 
usually  is  aged  or  sharp.  It  may  have 
a  smoked  flavor.  The  body  is  softer 
and  spreads  easily.  Principal  varieties 
are  coldpack  American  cheese  and 
coldpack  Swiss  cheese.  Coldpack  cheese 
is  packaged  in  jars,  rolls,  or  links. 

Coldpack  cheese  food  is  prepared 
in  the  same  manner  as  coldpack  cheese, 
but  includes  other  dairy  ingredients  as 
used  in  process  cheese  food.  In  addi- 
tion, sweetening  agents  such  as  sugar 
and  corn  sirup  may  be  added.  It  is 
packaged  in  the  same  way  as  coldpack 
cheese. 

The  flavor  resembles  the  cheese  from 
which  it  is  made  but  is  milder;  the 
cheese  food  is  softer  and  spreads  more 
easily  due  to  the  other  ingredients 
added  and  the  higher  moisture  content. 

The  descriptions  above  show  there 
are  significant  differences  between  nat- 
ural cheeses  and  different  kinds  of 
process  cheese  and  related  products. 
These  differences  make  it  very  impor- 
tant that  you  check  the  labels  when 
buying  cheese. 

For  some  purposes  you  may  want 
natural  cheese,  for  others  process  cheese 
or  cheese  food,  and  for  still  others 
pasteurized  process  cheese  spread  or 
coldpack  cheese  may  best  serve  your 
needs.  In  many  cases,  they  may  be 


packaged  alike,  but  the  names  on  the 
labels  will  be  different.  Do  not  confuse 
the  brand  name  with  the  name  of  the 
cheese. 

The  name  of  a  natural  cheese  will 
appear  as  the  variety  such  as  "Cheddar 
cheese,"  or  "Blue  cheese."  A  very  im- 
portant bit  of  information  on  the  label 
of  certain  varieties  of  natural  cheese 
pertains  to  the  age  or  degree  of  rip- 
ening. For  instance,  Cheddar  cheese 
labeled  "mild"  usually  has  been  aged 
2  to  3  months;  "medium"  or  "mellow" 
has  been  aged  4  to  7  months;  and 
"aged"  or  "sharp,"  8  to  12  months. 

Pasteurized  process  cheese  labels  will 
always  include  the  name  of  the  variety 
or  varieties  of  cheese  used,  for  instance, 
"pasteurized  process  American  cheese" 
or  "pasteurized  process  Swiss  and 
American  cheese."  In  some  cases,  pas- 
teurized process  cheese  may  be  labeled 
to  indicate  a  sharp  flavor  when  a  much 
higher  proportion  of  sharp  or  aged 
cheese  was  used  in  its  preparation. 

Labels  of  cheese  foods  and  cheese 
spreads  will  include  all  the  ingredients 
used  in  preparing  these  products  along 
with  the  kinds  or  varieties  of  cheese 
used  in  the  mixture.  Also,  the  milkfat 
and  moisture  content  may  be  shown. 

Coldpack  cheese  and  coldpack  cheese 
food  are  labeled  in  the  same  manner 
as  other  cheese  and  cheese  foods  except 
that  "club  cheese"  or  "comminuted 
cheese"  may  be  substituted  for  the 
name  "coldpack  cheese." 

Grades — based  on  flavor,  body,  tex- 
ture, finish,  appearance,  and  color — 
have  been  established  for  some  varie- 
ties of  natural  cheese.  Grademarks  do 
not  usually  appear  on  retail  packages, 
but  you  may  find  some  packages  of 
Cheddar  cheese  bearing  the  U.S.  Grade 
AA  mark.  Cheeses  with  this  mark  are 
of  the  highest  quality  with  fine,  pleas- 
ing flavor.  Grade  A  is  very  good  quality. 

Process  cheese  and  cheese  foods  are 
not  federally  graded,  but  frequendy 
are  inspected  and  bear  the  USDA 
"quality  approved"  inspection  shield. 
Cottage  cheese  also  may  have  a  shield 
on  its  container  stating  that  it  is 
"quality  approved"  by  the  U.S.  De- 
partment of  Agriculture. 

155 


0  SD  A 


I  QUALITY  APPROVED^ 

US.DEPT.OF  AGRICULTURE 

GRADING  AND 
QUALITY  CONTROL  SERVICE 


OFFICIALLY    INSPECTED 


SHIELD  ON  USDA-INSPECTED  PROCESS 
CHEESE  PRODUCTS 


To  earn  the  "quality  approved" 
shield,  the  cheese  must  have  been 
manufactured  in  a  plant  that  meets 
USDA  specifications  for  condition  of 
plant  and  equipment.  A  USDA  in- 
spector stationed  at  the  plant  checks 
on  quality  of  raw  materials  and  plant 
sanitation,  and  inspects  the  finished 
products  for  compliance  with  Federal 
specifications. 

To  find  the  relative  cost  of  various 
cheeses,  compare  the  price  of  equal 
weights  of  cheese. 

Aged  or  sharp  natural  cheeses  usu- 
ally cost  more  than  mild  ones;  im- 
ported cheeses  frequently  cost  more 
than  domestic  ones;  and  prepackaged 
sliced,  cubed,  or  grated  cheeses  may 
cost  more  than  wedges  or  sticks.  Cream 
or  cottage  cheese  flavored  with  chives, 
pimientos,  or  other  ingredients  some- 
times is  more  expensive  than  similar 
cheese  bought  plain  and  seasoned  at 
home.  Pasteurized  process  cheeses 
often  cost  less  than  natural  cheeses. 

How  do  you  store  the  cheeses  you've 
selected?  Keep  them  refrigerated.  The 
length  of  time  you  can  store  cheese 
depends  on  the  kind  and  the  wrapping. 
Cottage  and  Ricotta  cheeses  should  be 
used  within  a  few  days.  Other  soft 
varieties  such  as  cream  and  Neuf- 
chatel  should  be  used  within  2  weeks. 
Hard  cheeses  will  keep  up  to  several 
months  if  protected  from  drying  out 
and  mold  contamination. 

All  cheeses  should  be  kept  in  their 
original  container  or  wrappings,  if 
possible.  Once  a  cheese  is  cut,  it  tends 
to  dry  out  rapidly  unless  it  is  over- 
wrapped  with  aluminum  foil,  plastic 
wrap,  or  waxed  paper,  or  stored  in  a 

156 


tightly  covered  container.  This  is  es- 
pecially needed  for  cheeses  with  a 
strong  odor,  such  as  Limburger.  Cheese 
that  has  become  dried  out  and  hard 
during  storage  can  be  grated  and  kept 
in  a  tightly  covered  jar. 

If  you  want  to  keep  a  larger  piece 
of  cheese  for  an  extended  time,  dip 
the  cut  surface  in  melted  paraffin. 

Jars  of  process  cheese  spreads  and 
cheese  foods  can  be  kept  at  room  tem- 
perature until  opened,  then  refriger- 
ated, tightiy  covered.  These  will  keep 
for  several  weeks. 

Freezing  is  not  recommended  since 
the  texture  of  natural  cheeses  becomes 
crumbly  and  mealy,  and  soft  cheeses 
separate  upon  thawing.  However,  cer- 
tain varieties  can  be  frozen  if  it  is  done 
rapidly,  if  pieces  are  less  than  a  pound 
in  weight  and  an  inch  in  thickness,  and 
if  pieces  are  carefully  protected  in 
moisture-proof  material.  Varieties  that 
can  be  frozen  include  Cheddar,  Swiss, 
Edam,  Gouda,  Brick,  Muenster,  Port 
du  Salut,  Provolone,  Mozzarella,  and 
Camembert.  If  Blue,  Roquefort,  or 
gorgonzola  cheeses  are  to  be  used 
for  salads  or  salad  dressings  where  a 
crumbly  texture  is  acceptable,  small 
quantities  of  these  can  be  frozen.  Store 
the  cheeses  in  the  freezer  no  more  than 
6  months,  thaw  in  the  refrigerator,  and 
use  as  soon  as  possible  after  thawing. 

Cheese  can  be  eaten  throughout  the 
day  in  many  ways — with  crackers,  as  a 
toasted  sandwich,  or  with  assorted 
relishes  on  an  appetizer  tray.  In  many 
European  countries,  a  mild  cheese  ap- 
pears at  breakfast  accompanied  by 
fresh  white  bread  or  rolls  and  jam. 
Complete  the  meal  with  a  hot  bever- 
age, and  you  will  have  a  different  and 
delicious  way  to  start  the  day. 

When  eating  cheese  as  it  is,  the  im- 
portant thing  to  remember  is  that  the 
characteristic  flavor  and  texture  of 
most  cheese  is  best  when  served  at 
room  temperature.  Remove  from  the 
refrigerator  at  least  1  hour  before  serv- 
ing. The  exceptions  are  cottage  and 
cream  cheese  which  are  served  directly 
from  the  refrigerator. 

Cheese  and  fruit  are  natural  part- 
ners and  can  become  an  easy  but  ele- 


gant  ending  to  your  next  dinner  party 
or  buffet.  Plan  on  several  varieties 
with  varying  flavors  and  textures. 
Serve  at  least  one  full-flavored  variety 
such  as  Blue  cheese. 

You  might  also  include  one  cheese 
which  is  unfamiliar  to  most  of  your 
guests  for  its  conversation  value. 

Use  your  prettiest  tray  or  platter. 
Cut  the  cheeses  in  different  forms;  for 
example,  Swiss  into  slices,  Cheddar 
into  cubes  or  fingers,  and  Blue  into 
wedges.  Serve  a  soft  cheese  in  one  piece 
or  cut  into  cubes.  The  red,  wax-coated 
Edam  or  Gouda  is  a  colorful  addition 
if  served  with  a  slice  removed  from  the 
top  so  that  the  center  can  be  scooped 
out. 

Serve  several  kinds  of  fruits.  Apples, 
pears,  orange  sections,  pineapple  spears, 
and  seedless  grapes  are  good  choices. 
If  apples  and  pears  are  served  cut, 
remember  that  they  will  darken  unless 
dipped  in  lemon  juice  or  other  citrus 
juice. 

If  fresh  fruits  are  not  available,  you 
might  serve  fruit  preserves,  jam,  an 
especially  interesting  jelly,  or  candied 
and  dried  fruits. 

Finish  your  tray  with  crisp  crackers 
or  thin  slices  of  pumpernickel  or  rye 
bread.  Select  crackers  with  flavors  that 
will  not  compete  with  the  cheeses. 

Cheese  spreads  and  dips  are  popular 
as  snacks  and  for  entertaining.  You 
might  prefer  making  your  own,  but 
there  are  a  large  number  of  already 
prepared  snacks  and  dips  available. 
Whipped  cream  or  Neufchatel  cheese 
may  have  clams,  chives,  mushrooms, 
onions,  bacon,  dates  and  nuts,  or  other 
ingredients  added. 

Cheeses  packed  in  pressurized  cans 
are  another  convenience.  You  can  use 
these  for  canapes  and  sandwiches.  Sev- 
eral different  cheeses  are  available. 

The  use  of  cheese  in  cooking  is  end- 
less. Cheese  makes  a  delicious  com- 
bination in  casseroles  with  pasta;  with 
vegetables;  and  with  meats,  poultry, 
and  fish. 

Attention  to  two  simple  rules  will 
insure  a  successful  cheese  dish — use  low 
heat  and  do  not  overcook.  When  cheese 
is  melted,  it  is  cooked.  Because  of  its 


protein  nature,  cheese  that  is  heated  at 
too  high  a  temperature  or  for  too  long 
a  time  becomes  tough  and  stringy.  The 
fat  separates  out  from  the  protein  and 
the  flavor  may  change. 

Cheese  will  melt  quicker  if  it  is 
sliced,  cubed,  shredded,  or  grated  to 
use  in  a  recipe.  Shred  soft  cheese  on  a 
coarse  grater;  shred  hard  cheese  on  a 
fine  one. 

Follow  cooking  directions  carefully 
in  any  recipe  you  use.  In  general,  for 
best  results  when  you  are  cooking  on 
top  of  the  stove,  use  a  double  boiler. 
You  can  cook  your  cheese  dish  over 
direct  heat  if  the  heat  is  low  and  you 
stir  constantly. 

In  making  cheese  sauces,  add  the 
cheese  last  and  stir  just  until  melted. 
Easy  cheese  sauces  can  be  made  from 
the  dry  sauce  mixes  or  the  condensed 
Cheddar  cheese  soups  which  are  on 
the  market. 

What  cheese  should  you  use  for 
cooking?  Your  family  has  certain  pref- 
erences and  many  homemakers  regard 
Cheddar  or  American  as  the  best 
cooking  cheese.  However,  other  varie- 
ties such  as  Blue,  cottage,  cream,  Par- 
mesan, Romano,  and  Swiss  are  also 
excellent  for  various  dishes.  With  few 
exceptions,  the  use  of  any  cheese  is  not 
limited. 

In  general,  a  sharper,  longer  aged 
natural  cheese  contributes  more  flavor 
and  better  texture  to  cooked  dishes 
than  a  milder,  less-ripened  one.  Proc- 
ess cheeses  are  often  preferred  for 
cooking  as  they  melt  to  a  creamy 
smoothness  and  blend  well  with  other 
foods.  However,  they  are  often  bland 
in  flavor. 

CHEESE  RAREBIT  (WELSH  RABBIT) 

6  servings,  %  cup  rarebit  each 

1  egg,  beaten 
l}i  cups  milk 
3  cups  (.%  pound)  shredded  cheese 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
J4  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

2  tablespoons  chopped  pimiento 

Combine  all  ingredients  except  pi- 
miento. Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring 
constandy,  until  cheese  is  melted  and 
the  mixture  is  slightiy  thickened.  Stir 

157 


Cheese  rarebit  served  with  a  tomato  slice  on  bread. 


on 


in  pimiento  and  serve  immediately 
toast  or  crackers,  as  desired. 


If  the  rarebit  is  made  with  natural 
Cheddar  cheese  it  will  have  a  zesty 
flavor,  but  must  be  freshly  stirred  and 
served  immediately.  It  may  separate 


and  need  to  be  placed  over  simmering 
water  and  stirred  until  it  is  again 
smooth.  The  texture  may  be  slightly 
grainy. 

If  the  rarebit  is  made  with  process 
Cheddar  cheese  it  will  have  an  unfail- 
ing smoothness  and  a  milder  flavor. 


FRESH  FLUID  MILK 
Whole  milk 

Homogenized 
Cream-line 
Vitamin  D 

Fortified  multiple-vitamin 

and/or  mineral 
Concentrated 

Skimmed  milk 


Skim  (skimmed  or  nonfat 

milk) 
Fortified  skim 


Lowfat 
2  percent 


GLOSSARY 

Grade  A  pasteurized  milk  sold  for  home  use. 

At  least  3.25  percent  milkfat  and  8.25  percent  nonfat 
milk  solids.1 
Fat  uniformly  distributed  through  milk. 
Layer  of  cream  at  top  of  container. 
Vitamin  D  increased  to  at  least  400  U.S. P.  or  In- 
ternational units  per  quart. 
Added  vitamin  A,  vitamin  D,  riboflavin,  thiamine, 

niacin,  and/or  iron,  iodine. 
Fresh  milk  with  a  considerable  portion  of  the  water 
removed. 
Processed  to  remove  most  of  the  fat,  which  also  re- 
moves the  vitamin  A  and  vitamin  D  of  fluid  whole 
milk. 
Less  than  0.5  percent  milkfat  and  at  least  8  percent 

nonfat  milk  solids. 
Added  vitamin  A  and  vitamin   D,   less  than  0.5 
percent  milkfat,  and  at  least   10  percent  non- 
fat milk  solids. 
Between  0.5  and  2  percent  milkfat. 
2  percent  milkfat  and — usually — 10  percent  nonfat 
milk  solids. 


i  Recommended  in  "Grade  'A'  Pastourized  Milk  Ordinance,-'  Public  Health  Service  Publication  229  (1965 
revision).  Minimums  of  3  percent  milkfat  and  8  percent  nonfat  milk  solids  have  been  set  by  some  States  for  whole 
milk. 

158 


Flavored  milk 
Chocolate  milk 

Chocolate-flavored  milk 
Chocolate  drink  (chocolate 
lowfat  milk) 

Chocolate-flavored  drink 

Other 


CULTURED  MILK 

Buttermilk 


Yogurt 


CANNED  MILK 

Evaporated  milk 
Whole 

Skim 


Sweetened  condensed  milk 

DRY  MILK 

Nonfat  dry  or  dry  skim  milk 

Whole  dry  milk 
FILLED  MILK 


HALF-AND-HALF 

Half-and-half 
Sour  half-and-half 


CREAM 

Table  cream  (coffee  or  light 

cream) 
Sour  cream 

Light  whipping  cream 
Heavy  whipping  cream 
Pressurized  whipped  cream 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 

Ice  cream 


Frozen  custard  (French  or 
New  York  ice  cream) 

Ice  milk 


Fruit  sherbet 


Flavoring  and  stabilizer  added. 

Made  from  whole  milk  with  chocolate  and  sweet- 
ener. 

Made  from  whole  milk  with  cocoa  and  sweetener. 

Made  from  skim  or  lowfat  milk  with  chocolate 
and  sweetener.  Nonfat  milk  solids  may  be 
added. 

Made  from  skim  or  lowfat  milk  with  cocoa  and 
sweetener.  Nonfat  milk  solids  may  be  added. 

Flavored  milk:  Strawberry,  coffee,  maple,  or  other 
flavoring  combined  with  whole  milk.  Flavored 
drink  or  flavored  lowfat  milk:  Flavoring  com- 
bined with  skim  or  lowfat  milk. 

Made  by  adding  bacterial  culture  to  milk. 

Thick,  smooth  liquid.  Usually  made  from  skimmed 
milk;  at  least  8.25  percent  nonfat  milk  solids. 

Semisolid.  Made  from  whole  or  skim  milk.  Fruit  or 
other  flavorings  may  be  added. 

Concentrated  by  removing  water  from  milk. 

Vitamin  D  usually  added.  Sterilized. 

At  least  7.9  percent  milkfat  and  25.9  percent  total 

milk  solids. 
Low  milkfat — often  0.2  or  0.3  percent.  At  least  18 
percent  total  milk  solids.  Vitamin  A  may  be 
added. 
Sugar  added  to  help  preserve  milk.  At  least  8.5  per- 
cent milkfat  and  28  percent  total  milk  solids. 

Not  more  than  S  percent  of  moisture. 

Made  from  fluid  skim  milk.  Usually  "instantized." 
Not  more  than  1.5  percent  milkfat  in  dry  prod- 
uct. May  be  fortified  with  vitamins  A  and  D. 

Made  from  fluid  whole  milk.  At  least  26  percent 
milkfat  in  the  dry  product. 

Combination  of  skim  milk  and  vegetable  fat;  or  of 
nonfat  milk  solids,  water,  and  vegetable  fat. 

Mixture  of  milk  and  cream.  Pasteurized  Grade  A. 
At  least  10.5  percent  milkfat;  generally  homogenized. 
Made  by  adding  bacterial  culture  to  fresh  half-and- 
half;  0.2  percent  acidity.  Fluid  or  semifluid. 

Pasteurized,  Grade  A. 

At  least  18  percent  milkfat;  generally  homogenized. 

Made  by  adding  bacterial  culture  to  fresh  table 
cream;  0.2  percent  acidity.  Fluid  or  semifluid. 

At  least  30  percent  milkfat. 

At  least  36  percent  milkfat. 

Liquid  containing  fresh  table  or  whipping  cream, 
sugar,  stabilizer,  emulsifier  in  aerosol  can. 

Hard  or  soft  frozen,  pasteurized  during  processing. 

Made  from  cream,  milk,  sugar,  stabilizers.  At  least 

10  percent  milkfat  and  20  percent  total  milk 

solids. 
Made  from  the  usual  ingredients  for  ice  cream,  plus 

egg  yolks.  At  least  10  percent  milkfat  and  20 

percent  total  milk  solids. 
Made  from  milk,  stabilizers,  sweeteners.  Between  2 

and  7  percent  milkfat  and  at  least  11   percent 

total  milk  solids. 
Made   from    milk,    fruit    or   fruit  juice,    stabilizers, 

sweeteners.  From   1    to  2  percent  milkfat  and 

between  2  and  5  percent  total  milk  solids. 

159 


Gladys  L.  Gilpin 
Elinore  T.  Greeley 
Edward  W.  Ross,  Jr. 


Fruit — Buy  It 

With  Care 
and  Serve  It 

With  Hair 


Fruit  is  good  just  as  nature  grows  it  and 
just  as  man  has  learned  to  process  it. 
Processed  fruit — canned,  frozen,  and 
dried — is  preserved  at  the  peak  of  its 
goodness.  But  the  biggest  bonus  of 
fruit  is  that  it  is  ready  to  serve  in 
any  of  its  forms  with  litde  or  no 
preparation. 

To  make  the  most  of  the  fine  qual- 
ities of  fruit,  learn  to  select  fruits  with 
care,  store  them  properly,  and  use 
them  with  flair. 

To  help  you  choose  the  right  quality 
fruits  you  want  for  each  specific  pur- 
pose, the  U.S.  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture publishes  U.S.  grade  standards 
for  most  fresh  and  processed  fruits. 
The  grade  standards  generally  provide 
for  two  or  more  grades  for  each  prod- 
uct, and  describe  the  quality  require- 
ments for  each  grade. 

There  are  several  U.S.  grades  for 
fresh  fruits.  U.S.  Extra  Fancy  is  an 
extra-special  grade  that  applies  only  to 
apples.  This  grade  shows  exceptional 
quality  in  appearance,  color,  shape, 
and  lack  of  defects.  U.S.  Fancy  is  a 
top  grade  for  most  fruits.  This  grade 
indicates  good  color  and  good  shape. 

160 


The  U.S.  No.  1  and  U.S.  Extra  No.  1 
grades  represent  the  top  quality  for 
many  fruits  and  lower  grades  in  the 
case  of  some  fruits.  Fruits  of  these 
grades  have  a  good  appearance  but  a 
few  more  defects  are  permitted  when 
these  grades  represent  the  second  or 
third  highest  grade. 

Other  grades  for  fresh  fruits  are 
U.S.  No.  2  or  U.S.  Combination.  You 
are  not  likely  to  see  these  grades  on 
packages  in  retail  stores. 

There  are  three  U.S.  grades  for 
processed  fruits.  U.S.  Grade  A  or  U.S. 
Fancy  is  the  very  best,  with  excellent 
color;  uniform  size,  weight,  and  shape; 
proper  ripeness;  and  few  or  no  blem- 
ishes. Use  this  grade  for  special 
purposes  where  appearance  and  flavor 
are  important. 

U.S.  Grade  B  or  U.S.  Choice  is  a 
very  good  quality,  and  a  great  deal  of 
our  processed  fruit  is  packed  under 
this  quality.  The  color,  uniformity,  and 
texture  are  not  quite  as  perfect  as 
Fancy,  but  the  fruit  will  have  a  good 
flavor  and  will  be  suitable  for  any  use. 

U.S.  Grade  C  or  U.S.  Standard 
fruit  is  useful  where  appearance  and 
texture  are  not  of  great  importance. 
This  quality  may  contain  some  uneven 
or  broken  pieces.  Flavor  may  not  be 
as  good  as  in  the  higher  quality,  but 
the  fruit  will  be  wholesome.  Grade  C 
is  very  useful  if  you  chop  or  puree  the 
fruit,  or  use  it  in  upside-down  cakes, 
jams,  and  frozen  desserts. 

The  U.S.  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture provides  inspection  service  for 
certification  of  the  quality  of  fresh  and 
processed  fruits,  based  on  the  U.S. 
grade  standards.  This  is  a  voluntary 
service  offered  to  the  fruit  industry  on 
a  fee  basis. 


Gladys  L.  Gilpin  is  a  Research  Food  Tech- 
nologist, Food  Quality  and  Use  Laboratory,  Human 
Nutrition  Research  Division,  Agricultural  Research 
Service. 

Elinore  T.  Greeley  is  Head  of  the  Standardiza- 
tion Section,  Processed  Products  Standardization 
and  Inspection  Branch,  Fruit  and  Vegetable  Divi- 
sion, Consumer  and  Marketing  Service. 

Edward  W.  Ross,  Jr.,  is  Assistant  Chief,  Fresh 
Products  Standardization  and  Inspection  Branch, 
Fruit  and  Vegetable  Division,  Consumer  and 
Marketing  Service. 


Continuous  inspection  for  both  fresh 
and  processed  fruits  is  a  special  service 
of  USDA.  Under  this  program,  fruit 
is  inspected  by  highly  trained  experts 
throughout  all  phases  of  its  processing 
or  packing.  When  fresh  fruits  are 
packed  under  continuous  inspection, 
the  package  may  show  the  USDA 
shield  if  the  product  is  U.S.  No.  1  or 
better.  When  processed  fruits  are 
packed  under  continuous  inspection, 
the  package  may  contain  a  grade 
name  with  the  prefix,  "U.S.",  or  may 
show  the  USDA  shield,  or  both. 

Another  type  of  inspection  on  a  lot 
basis  is  offered  to  packers  of  fruits. 
Inspection  of  fresh  and  processed  fruits 
may  be  done  at  shipping  points,  in 
warehouses,  during  the  packing  opera- 
tions, and  at  terminal  markets. 

Buying  Fresh  Fruit.  Selection  of  fresh 
fruit  is  easy  if  you  follow  a  few  basic 
pointers. 

Buy  in  season.  You  get  the  best 
quality  and  prices  when  you  do  this. 
Read  the  newspapers  for  information 
on  plentiful  foods,  a  list  of  foods  selected 
by  USDA  that  are  in  good  supply. 

Don't  buy  just  because  the  price  is 
low.  Remember  to  buy  only  what  you 
can  use  and  hold  without  spoilage. 

If  you  don't  plan  to  use  fruit  for 
decorative  purposes,  consider  fruit  with 
only  superficial  blemishes.  This  kind  of 
fruit  suffers  no  loss  of  eating  quality 
and  may  be  less  expensive.  For  ex- 
ample, light  brown  coloration  on 
grapefruit  skin  and  lack  of  red  color 
on  apples  or  peaches  do  not  detract 
from  the  good  taste  of  the  fruit. 

Select  the  size  of  fruit  that  best  meets 
your  needs. 

Don't  pinch  the  produce.  This  causes 
spoilage,  and  the  consumer  pays  in  the 
long  run.  When  you  do  handle  fruit  to 
check  ripeness,  do  so  carefully  to 
prevent  injury. 

Look  for  helpful  information  on 
packaged  fruit.  You  may  find  a  grade- 
mark,  weight  or  measure,  or  size  of 
fruit. 

Buying  Canned  Fruit.  For  canned 
fruit,  the  following  buying  information 
will  be  helpful: 

Read  the  label.  Federal  regulations 


m 

fi*=Good  Suppl) 

ILAE 
| 

ILII 

F= 

| 

•y  o 

Fai 
| 

3E 

F  F 
Sttj 

< 

RES 

pply 
I 

i  F 

r 

Sma 

I 

1  S 

i 

E 

pp'l 

1 

o 

I 

1 
5 

Apples 

Apricots 

Avocados 

Bananas 

Berries  (Misc.) 

Blueberries 

Cantaloups 

Cherries 

Cranberries 

Dates 

Figs 

Grapefruit 

Grapes 

Honeydews 

Lemons 

Limes 

Mangoes 

Nectarines 

Oranges 

Papayas 

Peaches 

Pears 

Pineapple 

Plums-Prunes 

Strawberries 

Tangelos 

Tangerines 

Watermelons 

G 

G 
G 

S 
G 

G 
S 

G 

S 

s 

G 

S 

F 
S 

s 

F 
G 
S 

G 

e 

G 

s 

F 

G 
S 

f 
G 
S 

s 

G 

S 

F 

F 

S 
S 

s 
s 

G 

G 
G 

S 

F 

G 
S 

G 
G 

S 

s 

G 
S 

F 
G 

F 

S 
S 

G 

« 
G 

S 

S 

s 

G 
S 

F 
G 
S 
F 

G 

S 

F 
G 

G 

S 
S 

F 
S 
G 

G 
S 
S 

F 
G 

S 

G 
S 

F 
G 
G 
G 

G 
F 
S 
F 
G 

G 

S 
F 

s 

G 
F 
G 
G 
G 
G 
G 

S 
F 
F 
F 
G 
G 
G 
G 
F 
F 
S 
G 
S 
G 
G 
G 

S 
G 

s 

G 
F 
G 
G 
G 
G 
S 

S 
G 
S 
G 
G 
G 
G 
G 
G 
S 
S 
G 
S 
F 
G 
G 

G 

S 
S 
F 
G 
G 
G 
G 
S 

s 

G 
S 

G 
G 
6 

F 

F 
G 

s 
s 

G 
G 

F 
G 
S 

G 

G 

F 
G 
S 
S 
G 

F 
S 
F 
S 
G 
G 
G 
F 
S 
G 
S 
S 
G 
G 
S 
G 
S 
S 

s 

G 

F 
G 
S 

S 

F 
G 

G 
G 
G 
G 

F 

S 
F 

F 
S 
G 
F 
S 
S 
F 
S 
S 

G 

G 
6 
S 

S 

G 
G 

G 
G 
S 
G 
S 

G 
S 

G 

F 

S 
G 
G 
S 

G 

G 
G 

G 
G 

G 

F 
S 
G 
G 

G 
S 

F 

F 

S 
G 
G 
S 

NOTE:  Each  year's  production  will  vary.  This  chart  Is  an  estimate  of 
probable  availability. 


require  that  a  label  have  the  name  of 
the  product,  the  contents,  the  name 
and  address  of  the  packer  or  distribu- 
tor, and  the  kind  of  packing  liquid. 
Sometimes  the  number  of  servings  is 
put  on  the  label. 

There  are  three  basic  can  sizes  for 
fruits  that  are  approximately  equal  to 
half  pint,  pint,  and  quart  sizes.  These 
are: 

half  pint .  .  .  8  to  8%  oz.  .  .  .  makes 
2  servings,  %  cup  each 

pint  .  .  .  15  to  17  oz.  .  .  .  makes  4 
servings,  %  cup  each 

quart  ...  28  to  30  oz.  .  .  .  makes  7 
to  8  servings,  about  %  cup  each 

161 


Avoid  cans  that  show  signs  of  leak- 
age or  that  bulge  at  the  ends.  Con- 
tents will  not  be  harmed  by  dents  in 
the  cans  unless  the  dents  have  pierced 
the  metal. 

Don't  undo  twist-off  lids  of  glass  jars. 
They  are  tightly  sealed  to  keep  the 
contents  from  spoiling. 

There  is  a  choice  of  packing  liquids 
used  on  canned  fruits.  Choose  from 
light,  heavy,  and  extra-heavy  sirup, 
but  remember,  the  heavier  the  sirup, 
the  sweeter  the  fruit — and  the  higher 
the  price.  Fruit  is  also  packed  with 
juice  or  water,  or  is  artificially  sweet- 
ened. The  water,  juice,  and  artificially 
sweetened  packs  are  a  boon  to  diet- 
conscious  people. 

Frozen  Fruit.  The  quality  of  frozen 
fruit  is  usually  very  good.  When  buy- 
ing frozen  fruit,  remember  these  hints: 

Choose  frozen  fruit  packages  that 
are  frozen  hard.  If  packages  are  not 
firm,  it  means  the  fruits  may  have 
thawed  or  partially  thawed. 

Packages  stained  by  the  contents 
probably  have  defrosted  at  some  time 
during  marketing,  so  avoid  buying 
them. 

Read  the  label  for  important  infor- 
mation. Labeling  laws  require  the 
label  to  show  the  product  name,  the 
style  of  cut  fruits,  information  on  any 
sweeteners  used,  the  weight,  and  the 
name  and  address  of  the  packer  or 
distributor.  The  label  may  show  a 
quality  mark,  such  as  Grade  A  or 
Fancy.  Look  for  thawing  information 
and  serving  directions,  too. 

Take  frozen  fruit  home  in  an  in- 
sulated bag  to  maintain  quality.  It's  a 
good  idea  to  pick  up  frozen  foods  last 
on  your  shopping  route. 

Dried  Fruit.  When  selecting  dried 
fruit,  several  pointers  may  help  you 
get  the  best  value: 

Buy  well  sealed,  clean  containers. 

Good  quality  dried  apples,  apri- 
cots, peaches,  and  pears  should  be 
bright  in  color,  firm,  and  pliable. 

Try  different  kinds  of  packages. 
Many  new  transparent  bags,  plastic 
containers,  or  coated  cartons  are  de- 
signed to  keep  dried  fruits  better  and 
for  a  longer  time. 

162 


Note  the  variety  of  dried  fruit 
now  available.  For  example,  there  are 
many  kinds  of  raisins  for  different 
uses:  natural  seedless,  light-colored, 
seeded  (with  seeds  removed),  and  clus- 
ters of  raisins.  Don't  overlook  the  pock- 
et-size packages  of  raisins  so  handy  for 
lunches  and  snacks.  Dried  prunes,  both 
pitted  and  with  pits  in,  also  come  in 
moisturized  and  low-moisture  forms. 
High-moisture,  pitted  prunes  are  ready 
for  quick  use,  such  as  for  stuffing,  and 
excellent  for  eating  as  they  are.  Dates 
can  be  found  in  pitted  or  unpitted 
form  as  well  as  in  low-moisture  nug- 
gets. Low-moisture  forms  of  apples, 
apricots,  and  peaches  are  good  for  use 
in  sauces  and  purees. 

Read  the  label.  It  will  show  the 
product  name,  the  weight,  and  the 
name  and  address  of  the  packer  or 
distributor,  and  any  preservative  or 
special  treatment.  The  label  may  also 
show  the  size  of  the  fruit  and  helpful 
hints  on  how  to  use  the  fruit. 

Storage.  Once  you  have  selected 
your  choice  of  fresh  fruits,  proper 
storage  and  care  at  home  will  keep 
fruits  best  in  quality.  Sort  fruits  before 
storing  them,  discarding  any  that  are 
moldy  or  decayed. 

Set  aside  any  fruit  not  ripe  enough 
to  eat.  Pears,  bananas,  and  avocados 
usually  need  to  be  ripened  at  room 
temperature  before  they  are  stored  or 
used.  The  optimum  temperature  for 
ripening  is  between  60°  and  70°  F. 
Never  ripen  fruit  in  direct  sunlight. 
As  soon  as  the  fruit  is  ripe,  store 
according  to  the  direction  for  each 
type  of  fruit  given  here,  unless  you 
plan  to  use  it  immediately. 

Wash  and  dry  fruits  that  have 
smooth,  firm  skins — apples,  pears,  and 
plums — before  you  store  them  in  the 
refrigerator.  Do  not  wash  berries, 
cherries,  or  grapes  before  storing  in 
the  refrigerator.  But  wash  them  before 
using.  And  do  not  remove  stems  or 
caps  because  by  doing  so  you  could 
break  the  skin  or  injure  the  tissues  of 
the  fruits.  It  is  best  to  hold  soft,  juicy 
fruits  in  shallow  containers  so  those 
on  the  bottom  will  not  be  crushed. 

Temperature  and  humidity  are  very 


important  when  you  store  fresh  fruits. 
Many  refrigerators  have  closed  con- 
tainers or  bins  where  air  does  not 
circulate  to  dry  out  fruits.  If  you  store 
fruits  in  a  plastic  bag,  make  a  few 
small  holes  in  the  bag  to  provide 
ventilation  and  let  out  some  of  the 
moisture  which  accumulates. 

The  storage  times  recommended  here 
are  short,  taking  into  consideration  the 
time  it  takes  to  get  fresh  fruit  into  your 
home.  If  you  are  lucky  enough  to  grow 
your  own  fruit,  you  can  store  fresh 
fruits  for  longer  periods  than  are 
normally  recommended. 

Canned  fruits  can  be  stored  at  room 
temperature  and  will  hold  their  eating 
quality  for  extended  periods  in  a  cool, 
dry  place.  They  are  safe  to  eat  as  long 
as  the  can  or  jar  is  intact.  Color, 
flavor,  and  texture  may  not  be  top 
quality  if  you  hold  canned  fruits  for 
more  than  a  year,  or  if  you  keep  them 
in  a  very  warm  place.  Try  to  store 
them  in  a  place  no  warmer  than  75°  F. 

Frozen  fruits  must  be  kept  at  0°  F. 
or  lower  to  retain  their  best  eating 
quality  if  you  hold  them  longer  than  a 
few  days.  This  requires  a  true  freezer. 
You  can  keep  frozen  fruits  about  a 
year  at  this  temperature  with  little  or 
no  loss  of  quality.  An  ice  cube  compart- 
ment or  refrigerator-freezer  compart- 
ment will  not  maintain  this  required 
temperature. 

Dried  fruits  can  be  stored  at  cool 
room  temperature  for  6  months  or 
longer.  In  warm,  humid  weather,  keep 
them  in  a  refrigerator  to  best  hold  their 
quality.  Prunes  and  raisins  are  apt  to 
retain  their  color  longer  than  lighter 
colored  fruits  like  apples,  apricots,  and 
peaches. 

Because  there  is  such  a  variety  of 
fresh  fruits  available,  you  should  know 
something  about  the  different  buying 
and  storing  tips  for  individual  fruits. 

Apples.  For  good  eating  as  fresh  fruit, 
the  most  common  varieties  are  Deli- 
cious, Mcintosh,  Stayman,  Winesap, 
Golden  Delicious,  and  Jonathan. 

For  making  pies  and  applesauce, 
use  the  tart  varieties  like  Gravenstein, 
Grimes  Golden,  Jonathan,  and  Yellow 
Newtown  (or  Albemarle  Pippin). 


Look  for  firm,  crisp  apples  that  have 
a  fresh  appearance.  Store  fresh  apples 
in  the  refrigerator  to  retain  crispness. 
Use  ripe  apples  within  a  week  or  two. 
Firmer  apples  will  keep  longer. 

Apricots.  Plump  and  juicy-looking 
apricots  showing  a  uniform,  golden 
orange  color  are  best.  Ripe  apricots 
will  yield  to  slight  pressure  on  the 
skin.  Hard,  pale  yellow  or  greenish 
apricots  are  not  very  desirable.  Store 
ripe  apricots  uncovered  in  the  refrig- 
erator and  use  within  3  to  5  days. 

Avocados.  Most  varieties  are  pear 
shaped,  but  some  are  oval  or  round. 
Skin  textures  vary  from  smooth  to 
rough  and  leathery.  Some  are  green 
in  all  stages  of  ripeness,  others  turn  from 
green  to  maroon,  brown,  or  purplish- 
black  as  they  ripen. 

Avocados  that  yield  to  gende  pres- 
sure are  best  for  immediate  use.  For 
use  in  a  few  days,  select  firmer  fruit. 
Light  brown,  irregular  markings  some- 
times found  on  the  skin  have  no  effect 
on  the  flesh  of  ripe  avocados. 

Ripen  hard  or  firm  avocados  at 
room  temperature.  If  necessary  to 
hold  ripe  avocados,  store  them  in  the 
warmest  part  of  the  refrigerator  from 
3  to  5  days. 

Bananas.  Most  of  our  banana  supply 
comes  from  Central  and  South  Amer- 
ica. Bananas  harvested  green  develop 
better  eating  quality  than  those  har- 
vested when  ripe. 

Look  for  firm,  bright  bananas,  free 
from  any  bruises.  For  immediate  use, 
select  solid  yellow  bananas  or  yellow 
bananas  with  light  brown  flecks. 
Choose  bananas  which  are  turning 
yellow  or  bananas  with  green  tips  if 
you  plan  to  keep  them  a  few  days  or 
to  cook  them. 

Bananas  will  ripen  quickly  at  room 
temperature.  The  best  temperature  is 
a  cool  60°  to  70°  F.  If  necessary  to 
hold  ripe  bananas,  store  them  covered 
in  the  warmest  part  of  the  refrigerator. 
Use  them  within  a  day  or  two. 

Berries.  Strawberries  are  best  when 
they  are  firm  and  have  a  full  red  color. 
They  should  have  the  caps  and  stems 
attached  and  should  not  be  wet. 

When  you.  purchase    blackberries, 

163 


raspberries,  dewberries,  loganberries, 
and  youngberries,  look  for  bright, 
clean  berries.  Often  a  wet  or  stained 
container  will  indicate  the  berries  have 
poor  quality. 

Store  berries  unwashed  and  un- 
covered in  the  refrigerator  and  use  in 
1  or  2  days. 

Blueberries.  Good  quality  blueberries 
are  dark  blue  with  a  silvery  bloom. 
Light  purple  blueberries  usually  lack 
flavor.  Store  blueberries  unwashed 
and  uncovered  in  the  refrigerator  and 
use  in  a  day  or  two. 

Cranberries.  Choose  cranberries  that 
are  plump,  firm,  lustrous,  and  red. 
Store  in  the  refrigerator  and  use  within 
a  week. 

Sweet  Cherries.  The  best  cherries  are 
dark  red  or  black  with  fresh-looking 
stems.  Store  them  unwashed  and  un- 
covered in  the  refrigerator  and  use 
them  preferably  in  a  day  or  two. 
However,  they  will  keep  a  little  longer. 

Citrus  Fruits.  Choose  citrus  fruits 
that  are  heavy  for  their  size.  This 
indicates  juiciness.  Bright-looking  skin 
and  smooth  appearance  are  also  im- 
portant. Slight  skin  blemishes  or  sur- 
face scars  may  affect  only  the  appear- 
ance and  not  the  eating  quality. 

Several  types  of  grapefruit  are  avail- 
able :  Seedless  (few  or  no  seeds)  white 
and  pink-fleshed  varieties,  and  white 
and  pink-fleshed  varieties  with  seeds. 

Lemons  should  have  a  glossy  skin. 
A  slighdy  green  tint  on  the  skin  has 
no  effect  on  juiciness,  but  smooth- 
skinned  lemons  usually  have  more  juice 
than  rough-skinned  types. 

The  large  green  limes  you  see  in 
most  stores  are  the  Persian  variety, 
also  called  Tahitian.  The  famous  Key 
lime,  smaller  than  the  Persian,  has 
yellow  flesh  when  mature. 

Oranges  are  available  in  many  dif- 
ferent sizes  and  varieties.  Skin  color  is 
not  always  an  index  of  maturity  since 
some  oranges  are  artificially  colored 
to  improve  their  appearance.  Eating 
quality  is  not  affected  by  this  color. 

Good  tangerines  have  a  deep  orange 
or  yellow  color  with  a  bright  skin 
luster.  Loose  skin  is  natural. 

To  hold  grapefruit,  lemons,  limes, 

164 


and  oranges,  keep  them  in  a  cold  room 
or  in  the  refrigerator,  uncovered.  They 
will  keep  well  for  a  week  or  two  and 
often  longer.  Tangerines  should  be 
covered  and  can  be  held  for  about  a 
week  in  the  refrigerator. 

Dates.  Our  supply  comes  from  Cali- 
fornia and  Arizona  and  is  also  im- 
ported. Fully-ripe  dates  of  good  quality 
have  a  lustrous  golden-brown  to  brown 
color.  Dates  can  be  soft,  semidry,  or 
dry  depending  upon  variety  and  the 
way  they  are  prepared  for  packaging. 

You  will  find  dates  whole  with  pits 
and  with  pits  removed.  Dates  also 
come  diced  and  in  pieces  and  are 
often  coated  to  prevent  stickiness. 

Store  dates  in  a  closed  container  in 
a  refrigerator.  They  will  last  for  many 
months  if  kept  cold  and  fairly  dry. 

Figs.  This  fruit  may  be  black,  yellow, 
or  green.  The  black  fig  is  the  most 
popular  for  eating  as  fresh  fruit.  For 
best  flavor,  select  figs  which  are  fairly 
soft.  Minor  healed  splits  at  the  stem 
end  and  slight  scars  do  not  affect  the 
eating  quality. 

Fresh  figs  are  usually  very  ripe  when 
you  buy  them.  If  you  need  to  hold 
them  for  a  day  or  two,  keep  them  in 
the  coldest  part  of  the  refrigerator. 

Grapes.  Common  varieties  of  table 
grapes  are  Thompson  Seedless,  Alme- 
ria,  Calmeria,  and  Perlette  (green 
grapes);  Tokay,  Cardinal,  and  Red 
Malaga  (bright  red  grapes) ;  Emperor 
(red  grapes) ;  Ribier  (black  grapes) ; 
and  Concord-type  grapes  (blue-black 
grapes).  Make  sure  the  grapes  you  buy 
are  well-colored,  plump,  and  firmly 
attached  to  the  stem.  Stems  should  be 
green  and  pliable. 

Store  grapes  unwashed  and  uncov- 
ered in  the  refrigerator  and  use  them 
within  3  to  5  days. 

Melons.  Cantaloups  should  be  ma- 
ture. On  mature  cantaloups,  the  stem 
is  completely  gone,  leaving  a  shallow 
indention,  and  the  skin  color  between 
the  netting  is  a  light  green  to  yellow. 
In  most  common  varieties,  a  thick, 
coarse,  and  corky  netting  covers  most 
of  the  surface.  Mature  cantaloups  are 
not  necessarily  ripe.  For  immediate 
eating,  select  ripe  cantaloups.  A  ripe 


melon  will  have  a  yellowish  cast,  a 
pleasant  cantaloup  odor  and  the  end 
opposite  the  stem  end  will  yield  to 
gende  thumb  pressure.  Mature  canta- 
loups that  have  not  reached  the  fully 
ripe  stage  are  best  if  you  plan  to  hold 
the  melons  awhile. 

Casaba  melons  are  light  green  to 
yellow  in  color.  They  are  pumpkin- 
shaped  and  pointed  at  the  stem  end. 
Casabas  have  no  netting,  but  have 
shallow,  irregular,  lengthwise  furrows. 

Select  firm,  golden-yellow  casaba 
melons  with  a  slight  softening  at  the 
stem  end.  The  casaba  melons  have  no 
aroma. 

Crenshaw  melons  are  large,  pointed 
at  the  stem  end,  and  round  at  the 
other  end.  The  lengthwise  furrows  are 
very  shallow  and  the  flesh  is  pale 
orange  and  juicy.  A  ripe  crenshaw 
melon  has  a  golden-yellow  rind,  will 
yield  slighdy  to  thumb  pressure  at  the 
rounded  end,  and  it  has  a  pleasant 
aroma. 

Honeydew  melons  are  large,  bluntly 
oval  to  round,  and  generally  smooth 
with  occasional  russeting,  a  rough, 
lacy  discoloration.  The  rind  is  firm 
and  creamy  white  to  yellow  in  color. 
A  soft,  velvety  skin  indicates  maturity 
in  honeydews.  For  ripe  melons,  look 
for  a  slight  softening  at  the  blossom 
end  and  a  pleasant  aroma. 

Honey  ball  melons  are  very  similar 
to  honeydew  melons  except  that  they 
are  smaller  and  have  an  irregular 
netting  on  the  rind.  Select  honey  balls 
in  the  same  manner  as  honeydew 
melons. 

Store  ripe  melons  in  the  refrigerator. 
Place  those  with  a  noticeable  odor  in 
a  plastic  bag.  If  possible,  use  the 
melons  within  a  week. 

Watermelons  are  easier  to  judge  for 
ripeness  and  quality  when  sold  in 
halves  or  quarters  so  you  can  see  the 
interior.  There  are  a  few  factors  that 
help  indicate  the  quality  of  a  whole 
melon.  Look  for  a  smooth  surface,  a 
slighdy  dull  rind,  fully  rounded  sides, 
and  a  creamy  colored  underside. 

In  cut  watermelons,  look  for  a  good 
red  color  and  dark  brown  or  black 


Watermelon  should  be  refrigerated. 
Use  cut  watermelons  in  3  to  5  days. 
Whole  melons  will  keep  longer. 

Nectarines.  Nectarines  are  ancient 
fruits  that  have  characteristics  of  both 
the  peach  and  the  plum.  Most  nec- 
tarines show  a  blush  red  to  bright  red 
color  over  much  of  the  skin  surface. 

They  should  have  a  yellow  color 
between  the  red  areas.  Choose  plump 
fruit  with  a  slight  softening  of  the  seam. 

Russeting  or  speckling  of  the  skin  is 
characteristic  of  some  varieties  of  nec- 
tarines and  does  not  detract  from  eat- 
ing quality. 

Store  nectarines  uncovered  in  the 
refrigerator.  It  is  preferable  to  use 
nectarines  in  3  to  5  days. 

Peaches.  The  two  major  types  of 
peaches  are  the  freestone,  with  a  pit 
which  easily  separates  from  the  flesh, 
and  the  clingstone,  with  a  pit  which 
adheres  to  the  flesh.  Freestone  peaches 
are  more  popular  for  eating  as  fresh 
fruit,  and  clingstones  are  generally 
used  for  canning.  Look  for  peaches 
that  are  fairly  firm  or  just  beginning  to 
soften.  The  color  between  the  areas  of 
red  on  the  surface  should  be  yellowish- 
green  or  yellow. 

Store  ripe  peaches  uncovered  in  the 
refrigerator  and  use  within  3  to  5  days. 

Pears.  There  are  two  general  types 
of  pears.  Summer  pears  include  Bart- 
letts  and  winter  pears  include  Anjou, 
Bosc,  Winter  Nelis,  and  Cornice. 

Look  for  firm  pears  with  a  yellowish- 
green  to  yellow  color  on  most  varieties. 
Some  pears  show  an  attractive  pink 
blush.  Varieties  like  Bosc  are  russeted 
on  the  skin  surface  and  are  best  when 
their  skin  color  is  greenish-yellow  to 
brown. 

Pineapples.  Generally  pineapples  are 
picked  hard  and  they  may  have  to  be 
ripened  at  home. 

Look  for  firm  pineapples  with  a 
green  color  turning  to  yellow  or  red- 
dish brown.  Allow  the  pineapple  to 
ripen  at  room  temperature. 

Refrigerate  ripe  pineapples  and  use 
within  a  day  or  two. 

Plums  and  Prunes.  Prunes  are  free- 
stone plums.  Plums  vary  in  color  from 
green  to  red ;  prunes  are  purplish  black 

165 


in  color.  For  best  eating,  look  for  plums 
and  prunes  that  are  firm,  with  a  bright 
appearance  and  a  slight  glow  to  the 
skin.  They  should  yield  slighdy  to  a 
gende  pressure. 

Store  plums  and  prunes  in  the  re- 
frigerator and  use  within  3  to  5  days. 

When  using  fruits,  take  advantage 
of  the  rainbow  colors,  the  fine  textures, 
and  variety  of  flavors.  Good  color  is 
very  important.  Fully  mature  and  ripe 
fruit  will  have  a  rich,  full,  character- 
istic color. 

Browning  of  light-colored  fruits — 
like  apples,  pears,  and  peaches — dur- 
ing preparation  is  caused  by  a  com- 
bination of  factors.  There  are  several 
ways  to  prevent  or  delay  this  effect: 

•  Keep  the  air  from  contact  with  the 
fruit  by  mixing  sugar  with  cut  fruit  or 
by  covering  fruit  with  sugar  sirup. 
Holding  prepared  fruit  in  a  solution 
of  salt  and  vinegar  in  water  will  pre- 
vent browning. 

•  Control  enzymes,  the  chemical  sub- 
stances naturally  present  in  fruit.  Dip- 
ping pared  fruits  into  citrus  juice  or 
sprinkling  citrus  juice  on  the  fruit  adds 
acid  which  retards  the  action  of  en- 
zymes. Freezing  also  slows  down  this 
action.  Cooking  fruit  destroys  the 
enzyme  and  prevents  discoloration. 

Texture  makes  a  great  difference  in 
the  enjoyment  that  comes  from  eating 
fruit.  Ripeness  is  an  important  factor 
in  the  texture  of  fresh  fruit.  Fully  ripe 
fruit  is  best  for  eating  uncooked  or  for 
any  use  that  requires  fruit  to  be  soft 
for  mashing,  sieving,  or  making  into 
juice.  For  simmering,  broiling,  baking, 
or  frying,  use  firm  or  slighdy  underripe 
fruits  which  will  retain  their  shape 
during  cooking. 

Short  cooking  periods  are  best  for 
fruits  in  most  cases.  Cook  fruits  only 
until  tender  unless  you  want  a  very 
soft  product  that  will  make  a  smooth 
sauce  or  puree.  Stir  fruits  only  as 
necessary  to  keep  them  from  scorching. 

Most  fruits  can  be  cooked  in  a  sugar 
sirup  with  good  results.  A  few  fruits, 
like  Kieffer  pears  and  quince,  become 
hard,  tough,  and  shriveled  up  when 

m 


cooked  this  way.  These  fruits  should 
be  cooked  in  water  to  soften  them 
before  they  are  sweetened. 

Flavor  is  an  important  consideration 
in  preparing  fruits.  Use  only  a  litde 
sugar  with  fruits  of  delicate  flavor. 
Cooking  fruit  can  develop  new  and 
interesting  flavors,  but  use  low  to 
medium  temperatures  to  prevent  cara- 
melization  of  sugars.  To  retain  best 
flavor,  cook  fruits  just  until  tender. 

The  ways  to  use  fruit  are  countiess. 

Uncooked  fruits  can  be  used  in  all 
parts  of  a  meal,  as  snacks  and  as 
party  food. 

For  Fruit  Combinations,  mix  fresh, 
frozen,  canned,  and  dried  fruit  in  cups, 
salads,  and  fruit  plates.  Contrast  light 
and  dark  colors,  soft,  crisp,  and  firm 
textures,  and  mild  and  tart  flavors. 
Serve  frozen  fruit  partially  thawed  for 
best  texture.  All  canned  fruits  and 
many  dried  fruits  may  be  served  just 
as  they  are. 

When  making  fruit  combinations, 
chill  all  fruits. 

Fruit  cups  are  favored  as  an  appe- 
tizer, but  hold  their  own  as  a  breakfast 
fruit  or  dessert.  Cut  fruit  into  bite-size 
pieces  and  cover  with  fruit  juice. 

Fruit  salads  are  appealing  as  an 
appetizer  or  as  part  of  the  main  course. 
Vary  them  by  using  different  combina- 
tions of  slices,  segments,  cubes,  balls, 
or  whole  small  fruits. 

Fruit  plates  are  often  used  as  the 
main  dish.  Larger  pieces  and  whole 
small  fruits  are  best  for  fruit  plates. 

Try  out  your  ingenuity  and  artistic 
talent  using  these  combinations  as  a 
starter: 

Grapefruit  and  mandarin  oranges 
or  combine  with  avocado,  mango,  or 
papaya. 

Bananas,  oranges,  and  pineapple. 

Blueberries,  cantaloup  or  water- 
melon, and  bananas. 

Peaches,  bananas,  seedless  grapes, 
Tokay  grapes. 

Strawberries,  oranges,  apples. 

Bing  cherries,  bananas,  oranges, 
apples. 

Raspberries,  pears,  and  cantaloup 
or  honeydew  melon. 


Fresh  and  canned  fruit  makes  pleasing  salad  ensemble  to  choose  from. 


Seedless  grapes,  bananas,  straw- 
berries, and  pineapple. 

For  color  and  flavor  accents,  garnish 
with  pomegranate  seeds,  a  sprig  of 
mint,  a  few  raisins,  cut-up  dates, 
crystallized  fruit,  maraschino  cherries, 
candied  citrus  peel,  and  slivered  or 
chopped  nuts. 

For  a  special  flair: 

Pour  a  litde  liqueur  on  each  fruit 
cup. 

Sprinkle  shredded  coconut  on  fruit. 

Include  a  few  prunes  stuffed  with 
cheese  on  a  fruit  plate. 

Use  slices  or  chunks  of  cheese  for  a 
hearty  fruit  plate. 

Top  each  fruit  plate  with  a  scoop  of 
sherbet. 

Fresh  Figs  Sorrento,  a  distinctive 
combination,  makes  a  very  flavorful 
first  course.  Serve  fresh  figs  and  thin 
slices  of  prosciutto,  an  Italian-type, 
specially  flavored  ham,  on  individual 


plates  or  from  a  platter  so  each  person 
can  make  his  own  selection. 

Jellied  fruit  juice  makes  an  ideal 
hot  weather  starter  for  a  meal. 

JELLIED  FRUIT  JUICE 

6  servings,  %  cup  each 

lii  cups  cranberry  juice 
\\{  cups  orange  juice 
\{  cup  pineapple  juice 
yt  cup  lemon  juice 
\{  cup  sugar 
2  tablespoons  gelatin 
}i  cup  cold  water 
1  cup  boiling  water 
6  maraschino  cherries 

Mix  the  fruit  juices  and  sugar. 

Soften  gelatin  in  cold  water,  stir  in 
boiling  water. 

Combine  mixtures  and  chill. 

Just  before  serving,  break  up  gelatin 
mixture  slighdy  with  a  fork.  Garnish 
with  cherries. 

167 


Be  sure  to  use  canned  or  reconsti- 
tuted frozen  pineapple  juice  rather 
than  fresh  pineapple  juice.  One  of  the 
enzymes  in  fresh  pineapple  will  react 
with  the  gelatin  and  destroy  its  gelling 
property.  This  enzyme  must  be  in- 
activated by  heating  as  is  done  in 
processing  of  canned  and  frozen  con- 
centrated juices. 

Fruit  accompaniments  to  the  main 
course  can  lend  distinction  to  the  meal 
yet  are  easy  to  make. 

Pickled  Prunes  require  only  pitted 
prunes  and  any  spiced  sweet  sirup, 
such  as  sirup  left  from  watermelon  or 
peach  pickles.  Heat  the  sirup  to  boiling 
and  pour  over  the  prunes.  Let  stand 
until  cool,  then  refrigerate  until  used. 
These  are  delicious  filled  with  cottage 
cheese  or  cream  cheese. 

Fruit  sherbets  combine  fruit  juice 
or  puree  with  milk  to  make  an  easy 
mix-and-freeze  dessert.  This  recipe  in- 
cludes gelatin  for  a  smooth  texture. 

LEMON-LIME  SHERBET 

6  servings,  %  cup  each 

1  package  (3  ounces)  lime  gelatin 

1  cup  boiling  water 
IK  cups  sugar 

%  cup  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  grated  lemon  rind 
1  quart  milk 

Mix  gelatin,  water,  and  sugar. 

Stir  in  lemon  juice  and  rind. 

Chill  but  do  not  allow  to  congeal. 

Add  the  milk  and  pour  into  refrig- 
erator trays. 

Freeze;  stir  when  the  mixture  begins 
to  freeze  around  edges  of  trays. 

For  raspberry  or  strawberry  sherbet, 
replace  lemon  juice  and  rind  with  a 
package  of  frozen  berries.  Color  and 
flavor  are  best  if  gelatin  and  berries 
are  the  same  flavor. 

Avocado  Freeze  is  one  way  Floridians 
use  avocados.  It  is  smooth  and  rich, 
and  has  a  lovely  color. 

To  make  6  servings,  about  %  cup 
each,  mash  1  large,  ripe  avocado.  Stir 

168 


in  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice  and % cup 
sugar;  mix  until  creamy  and  smooth. 
Whip  1  cup  whipping  cream;  blend 
into  avocado  mixture.  Freeze  in  refrig- 
erator tray. 

Party  snacks  can  be  made  quickly 
from  prepared  fruit  products  available 
the  year  around.  Punch  has  long  been 
used  to  refresh  guests  and  promote 
good  fellowship. 

CRANBERRY-APPLE  PUNCH 

12  servings,  about  %  cup  each 

1  quart  apple  cider 

1  cup  sweetened  cranberry  juice 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

2  cups  chilled  ginger  ale 

Combine  fruit  juices  and  chill. 
Just  before  serving,  add  ginger  ale. 

GOLDEN  PUNCH 

28  servings,  about  )i  cup  each 

1  can  (6  ounces)  frozen  pineapple-orange 
concentrate 

1  can  (12  ounces)  frozen  lemonade  con- 
centrate 

3  cups  canned  apricot  nectar 
9  cups  water 

1  orange,  cut  into  thin  slices 

Combine  all  the  ingredients  except 
orange  slices. 

Mix  well;  chill. 

Serve  over  ice.  Garnish  punch  with 
orange  slices. 

A  Fruit-Ice  Ring  will  decorate  as 
well  as  help  cool  the  punch.  Half  fill 
a  ring  mold  with  water.  Arrange  a 
variety  of  fruits  in  different  colors  and 
shapes  in  the  mold.  Good  choices  of 
fruit  are:  whole  grapes,  cherries,  or 
berries;  orange  or  lemon  slices;  length- 
wise halves  of  limes;  wedges  of  apples 
(brushed  with  lemon  juice)  and  canta- 
loup; plum  halves.  Freeze.  Unmold 
and  float  in  punch.  Be  sure  the  punch 
is  cold. 

Guacamole  rates  high  in  border 
States  like  Texas.  The  spicy  ingredients 
used  to  give  this  dip  its  nippy  flavor 
are  part  of  the  way  of  life  there. 


GUACAMOLE 

About  2  cups  of  dip 

3  medium-size  ripe  avocados 
2  teaspoons  grated  onion 
2  tablespoons  chili  sauce 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
}i  teaspoon  salt 

3  or  4  drops  Tabasco  sauce 

Mash  the  avocados  thoroughly. 
Mix  in  other  ingredients;  chill. 
Serve  as  a  dip  or  spread  on  crackers, 
if  desired. 

"Instant"  Fruit  Hors  tTOeuvres  can  be 
speared  on  toothpicks.  Use  two  or 
more  of  the  following  fruit:  pineapple 
cubes  or  chunks,  seedless  grapes, 
whole  fresh  berries,  melon  cubes  or 
balls,  cubes  of  seasonal  fruits  (dipped 
in  lemon  juice  if  necessary  to  hold 
their  color).  A  little  more  work  but 
worth  it — banana  chunks  dipped  in 
lemon  juice  and  then  rolled  in  finely 
chopped  nuts. 

Fruit  bonbons  are  similar  to  con- 
fections native  to  the  Mediterranean 
countries.  Bonbons  are  easy  to  make 
and  can  be  prepared  ahead  of  time. 

FRUIT  BONBONS 

4  dozen  bonbons 

1  package  mixed  dried  fruit 
1  cup  seedless  raisins 
y3  cup  candied  cherries 

1  cup  pecans 

2  tablespoons  cooking  sherry 
%  cup  confectioner's  sugar 


Remove  any  pits  from  dried  fruit. 

Put  mixed  fruit  and  raisins  through 
a  food  chopper,  using  the  fine  blade. 

Coarsely  chop  candied  cherries  and 
pecans. 

Mix  with  fruits. 

Blend  in  sherry. 

Form  into  small  balls. 

Roll  the  balls  in  confectioner's  sugar 
before  serving. 

ORANGE  BONBONS 

Finely  chop  1  cup  each  of  dried  figs, 
raisins,  and  pitted  dates  and  %  cup 
of  candied  orange  peel.  Mix  together 
with  1  cup  coarsely  chopped  nuts. 

Stir  in  2  tablespoons  of  undiluted 
orange  juice  concentrate.  Make  balls 
as  described  above. 

Familiar,  basic  cooking  methods  can 
be  used  for  fruits.  On  top  of  the  range 
you  can  make  a  variety  of  simmered, 
boiled,  and  fried  fruit  products  by 
these  recipes. 

Simmered  Fruit.  To  keep  fruit  pieces 
whole,  make  a  sirup  by  heating  the 
water  and  sugar  to  boiling.  Add  the 
fruit,  cover,  and  bring  back  to  boiling. 
Then  lower  heat  until  sirup  just  sim- 
mers, and  cook  fruit  until  tender. 

Cook  firm  varieties  of  pears  in  the 
water  to  make  them  tender;  add  the 
sugar  the  last  10  minutes  of  cooking. 

To  make  apple  or  rhubarb  sauce, 
cook  the  fruit  in  the  water  until  soft, 
add  the  sugar,  and  heat  for  1  minute 
longer. 


Cooking  Guide  for  Fresh  Fruit 


Kind  of  fruit 


Amount '  of  fruit 


How  to  prepare 


Amount  of    Amount  of     Cooking  time  after  adding 
water  sugar  fruit 


Apples. . . 
Apricots. 


Cherries 

Cranberries. 


Cups 
8 medium-size..  Pare  and  slice. .         H 

15 Halve,  pit,  peel  yi 

if  desired. 

1  quart Remove  pits 1 

1  pound Sort 1  or  2, 

as 


Peaches. 
Pears  — 


Plums.... 
Rhubarb. 


6  medium-size..   Peel,  pit,  halve, 
or  slice. 

6  medium-size..  Pare,  core, 
halve,  or 
slice. 

8  large Halve,  pit 

Impounds Slice 


desired  ' 


3A 


Cups  Minutes 

M         8  to  10,  for  slices 

12  to  15,  for  sauce. 
%  5. 

H         5. 
2  5. 


H         10,  for  soft  varieties 
20  to  25,  for  firm 
varieties. 
H         5. 
%  2  to  5. 


i  Makes  6  servings,  about  H  cup  each. 

2  Cranberries  make  6  servings  with  1  cup  water;  8  servings  with  2  cups  water. 


169 


Fruit  soup  is  a  favorite  Scandinavian 
dish  made  with  simmered  dried  fruits. 
Spices  and  lemon  juice  give  a  tangy 
flavor.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold  to  start 
the  meal  or  as  a  dessert.  With  toasted, 
slivered  almonds  used  as  a  garnish, 
Californians  could  claim  this  as  their 
own.  Fruit  soup  made  with  sour  cream 
can  make  this  a  high  spot  in  your  meal. 

FRUIT  SOUP 

6  servings,  about  %  cup  each 

1  package  (11  ounces)  mixed  dried  fruit 
}i  cup  light,  seedless  raisins 
1  quart  water 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  quick-cooking  tapioca 
}i  teaspoon  salt 

}i  cup  sugar 

1  stick  (3-inch)  cinnamon 

Dash  ground  cloves 

X  cup  sour  cream,  if  desired 

Remove  any  pits  from  dried  fruit; 
cut  fruit  into  large  pieces. 

Put  all  ingredients  except  sour  cream 
into  pan,  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  as 
needed. 

Cover  pan,  simmer  until  the  fruit  is 
tender,  about  20  minutes. 

Remove  cinnamon  stick. 

If  desired,  lighdy  mix  in  sour  cream 
just  before  serving  either  hot  or  cold. 

Fruit  sirups  and  sauces  are  often 
made  from  berries.  In  the  Blue  Ridge 
Mountains,  delectable  wild  fruit  sirups 
are  sold  for  use  on  pancakes,  waffles, 
and  the  like.  Fruit  sirups  are  easy  to 
make  from  the  cultivated  fruits  if  you 
don't  have  wild  ones. 

BLUEBERRY  SIRUP 

About  1  cup  sirup 

1  cup  unsweetened  blueberries,  fresh, 

frozen,  or  canned 
}i  cup  water  or  canned  blueberry  juice 
}i  cup  sugar 

Combine  ingredients;  bring  to  boil. 
Crush  berries  with  a  spoon. 
Simmer  2  or  3  minutes. 
Strain,  if  desired. 

Year-round  grape  jelly  is  delicious 
170 


and  can  be  made  with  little  work 
from  frozen  concentrated  grape  juice. 

GRAPE  JELLY 

12  glasses  (6  ounces  each) 

3  cans  (6  ounces  each)  frozen  grape  juice 

concentrate 
6}i  cups  sugar 
2%  cups  water 
1  bottle  liquid  pectin 

Thaw  grape  juice  concentrate. 

Stir  sugar  into  water;  heat  quickly 
while  stirring  constandy,  until  mixture 
reaches  a  full  rolling  boil  that  cannot 
be  stirred  down. 

Boil  hard  for  1  minute. 

Remove  from  heat;  stir  in  pectin. 

Add  grape  juice  and  mix  well. 

Pour  immediately  into  hot  home- 
canning  jars  or  jelly  glasses. 

Fill  jars  to  %  inch  from  top,  seal 
immediately  with  2-piece  metal  lids. 

Fill  jelly  glasses  to  %  inch  from  top 
and  cover  immediately  with  a  ^-inch 
layer  of  hot  paraffin. 

Fruit  and  nut  dessert  sauce  on  cake 
or  ice  cream  wins  praise  for  the  cook. 

FRUIT  AND  NUT  DESSERT  SAUCE 

About  1%  cups  sauce 

1  package  (10  ounces)  frozen  strawber- 
ries, raspberries,  or  mixed  fruits 
1  cup  liquid  from  frozen  fruits  plus  water 
}i  cup  sugar 
1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

1  tablespoon  chopped  raisins 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

J4  teaspoon  rum  extract,  if  desired 
%  cup  chopped  toasted  pecans 

Thaw  and  drain  frozen  fruit. 

Use  whole  berries  or  cut  up  large 
pieces  of  fruit  as  desired. 

Stir  fruit  liquid  gradually  into  sugar, 
cornstarch,  and  raisins  in  a  saucepan. 

Cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring 
constandy,  until  clear  and  thickened. 

Then  add  lemon  juice,  rum  extract, 
pecans,  and  fruit. 

For  coconut  fruit  sauce,  omit  raisins 
and  pecans.  Sprinkle  toasted  coconut 
on  top  of  dessert. 


Serve  party  grape  punch  piping  hot. 

PARTY  GRAPE  PUNCH 

26  servings,  about  %  cup  each 

1  quart  grape  juice 

1  can  (12  ounces)  frozen  lemonade,  re- 
constituted 
1  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  whole  cloves 
4  sticks  cinnamon 

Combine  all  of  ingredients;  bring  to 
a  boil. 

Strain  and  serve  punch  hot. 

Pan-frying  adds  a  delightfully  new 
flavor  to  fruits. 

Pan-Fried  Apple  Rings  are  a  long-time 
favorite  in  Pennsylvania  Dutch  coun- 
try. For  6  servings  use  3  large  apples. 
Wash,  core,  and  slice  the  apples  ^-inch 
thick. 

Melt  3  tablespoons  butter  or  mar- 
garine in  a  frying  pan.  Fry  the  apple 
rings  over  moderately  low  heat  until 
they  are  tender,  turning  to  brown 
evenly,  about  10  to  12  minutes. 

Sprinkle  the  apples  with  a  mixture 
of  1  tablespoon  sugar  and  }{  teaspoon 
cinnamon  before  serving. 

Pan-Fried  Pineapple  with  coconut  gar- 
nish can  add  a  Hawaiian  touch  to  your 
meal.  For  a  quick  method,  drain  a 
large  can  (about  30  ounces)  of  pine- 
apple slices. 

Melt  2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar- 
garine in  a  frying  pan.  Fry  the  pine- 
apple slices  over  moderately  low  heat 
until  lighdy  browned;  turn  to  brown 
the  other  side. 

Before  serving,  sprinkle  with  toasted 
coconut. 

Glazing  is  a  variation  of  pan-frying. 
Sugar  is  used  along  with  the  fat  for 
frying  to  make  a  coating  on  the  fruit 
which  adds  a  new  texture  and  flavor 
effect. 

Glazed  Bananas:  Cut  4  green-tipped 
bananas  into  thirds.  Blend  together  2 
tablespoons  butter  or  margarine,  %  cup 
brown  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  lemon 
juice  in  a  heavy  frying  pan. 

Add  the  bananas  and  cook  over  low 
heat,  turning  bananas  several  times 
until  the  sirup  is  thick  and  the  bananas 


well-coated.  Keep  heat  low  to  prevent 
scorching.  It  will  take  5  to  10  minutes, 
depending  on  size  of  the  bananas  and 
their  ripeness. 

Or  try  a  West  Indies  variation,  an 
unusual  flavor  combination.  Prior  to 
serving,  sprinkle  the  bananas  with  3 
tablespoons  grated  sharp  cheese. 

Broiled  Fruit  is  a  good  complement 
to  meat.  Broiling  takes  only  a  few 
minutes,  but  the  fruit  should  be  served 
immediately;  so  plan  your  menu  with 
not  too  many  other  last  minute  tasks. 

Peaches,  pears,  and  apricots  are  all 
broiled  the  same  way.  Provide  a  whole 
piece  of  fruit  for  each  serving.  For  6 
servings,  also  have  ready  1  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  2  tablespoons  melted  but- 
ter or  margarine,  1  tablespoon  brown 
sugar,  and  %  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Peel  the  fruit,  cut  into  halves,  and 
remove  the  pits.  Arrange  fruit  halves 
on  broiler  pan,  hollow  side  down.  Brush 
top  side  with  lemon  juice  and  butter. 

Broil  about  8  minutes  or  until  tender 
and  lighdy  browned.  Turn  the  fruit, 
brush  with  lemon  juice  and  butter  and 
sprinkle  with  the  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
Broil  2  or  3  minutes  longer  until  the 
top  is  golden  brown. 

Broil  canned  fruit  the  same  as  you 
would  fresh  fruit,  but  reduce  cooking 
time  to  about  5  minutes  on  the  first 
side  and  2  minutes  after  turning. 

Broiled  Bananas  are  also  very  tasty. 
Use  green-tipped  bananas  instead  of 
fully  ripe  ones.  Peel  and  cut  them  in 
half  lengthwise.  Brush  them  also  with 
lemon  juice  and  butter. 

Since  they  are  thinner  than  the 
other  fruits,  the  cooking  time  is  only 
4  minutes  on  the  first  side,  then  turn 
and  add  the  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and 
broil  2  minutes  longer. 

To  give  broiled  bananas  a  tropical 
flair,  sprinkle  the  tops  with  flaked 
coconut  and  toast  a  minute  longer. 

Another  easy  way  to  cook  fruits  is 
baking.  The  following  method  for 
peaches  can  also  be  used  for  pears  or 
apricots  by  adjusting  the  baking  time 
needed  to  cook  the  fruit  until  tender. 
Serve  these  fruits  either  with  the  main 
course  or  as  dessert. 

For  Baked  Peaches  or  Nectarines,  peel 

171 


and  halve  6  pieces  of  fruit.  Arrange  the 
halves  hollow  side  up  in  a  shallow 
baking  dish.  Boil  %  cup  water. 

Combine  %  cup  of  brown  sugar,  2 
teaspoons  lemon  juice,  and  1  table- 
spoon of  the  boiling  water. 

Pour  into  hollows  of  the  fruit.  Pour 
remaining  water  around  fruit  in  bak- 
ing dish.  Bake  uncovered  at  400°  F. 
until  tender,  about  30  minutes.  Baste 
with  liquid  in  baking  dish  if  needed 
during  baking. 

To  prepare  East  Indian  peaches  or 
nectarines,  mix  )'%  teaspoon  of  curry 
powder  into  the  sugar  mixture. 

Apricots  are  baked  like  peaches  but 
take  less  time  to  bake  since  they  are 
smaller. 

For  baked  pears,  pare  and  halve 
6  pears;  remove  seeds  and  fibers  from 
center.  One-half  teaspoon  cinnamon 
may  be  added  with  the  sugar  and 
lemon  juice  if  desired. 

Pears  will  take  about  45  minutes 
when  they  are  baked  at  400°  F. 

Baked  Canned  Fruit  is  easy  to  prepare 
and  delicious.  This  usually  takes  less 
sugar  as  most  canned  fruits  are  sweet- 
ened. Use  the  drained  fruit  sirup 
instead  of  water. 

Start  out  with  1  large  can  (about  30 
ounces)  of  peach,  pear,  or  apricot 
halves,  drained.  Arrange  the  fruit  in  a 
baking  dish  hollow  side  up. 

Mix  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice  with 
2  tablespoons  brown  sugar;  fill  into 
the  fruit  hollows.  With  pears,  %  tea- 
spoon cinnamon  added  with  the  sugar 
is  especially  good.  Pour  }{  cup  of  the 
drained  sirup  into  the  baking  dish 
around  the  fruit.  Bake  at  400°  F.  for 
about  15  minutes  until  heated  through. 

Mincemeat-stuffed  peaches  or  pears 
are  simple  to  make,  but  will  suit  a 
special  occasion.  Use  the  mincemeat  to 
fill  the  fruit.  It  takes  about  %  cup 
mincemeat  for  a  large  can  of  fruit. 
Place  a  marshmallow  on  top  of  each 
piece  of  the  fruit. 

Bake  as  above  until  the  fruit  is 
heated  through  and  the  marshmallow 
browned  slightly,  about  10  minutes. 

Banana  bread  catches  the  rich  flavor 
of  fully-ripe  bananas. 

172 


BANANA  BREAD 

5-  by  9-inch  loaf 

%  cup  sugar 
%  cup  shortening 
2  eggs 

1  cup  mashed  banana 
1%  cups  unsifted  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
%  teaspoon  baking  soda 

}4  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  the  sugar,  fat,  and  eggs  together 
until  light  and  fluffy. 

Stir  in  bananas. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  thoroughly. 

Add  dry  ingredients  to  banana  mix- 
ture, stirring  just  until  smooth. 

Pour  into  greased  5-  by  9-inch  loaf 
pan. 

Bake  at  350°  F.  until  firmly  set  when 
lightly  touched  on  top,  or  for  50  to  60 
minutes. 

Cool  on  rack.  Remove  from  the  pan 
after  10  minutes. 

For  date-nut  banana  bread,  add  % 
cup  chopped  dates  and  %  cup  chopped 
nuts  with  mashed  bananas. 

For  orange-banana  bread,  blend  1 
tablespoon  grated  orange  rind  with  the 
sugar-fat-egg  mixture. 

Green  apple  pie  will  long  be  remem- 
bered if  the  apples  are  well  selected. 
They  must  be  past  the  starchy  stage 
but  with  a  tart  flavor  and  crisp  texture. 

In  some  parts  of  the  country,  green 
apple  pie  means  one  made  from  green 
varieties  of  apples — but  not  out  in  the 
Midwest.  This  recipe  should  be  used 
with  slighdy  under-ripe  apples. 

DEEP  DISH  GREEN  APPLE  PIE 

8  servings 

6  cups  sliced  green  apples 
%  cup  sugar 
1  tablespoon  cornstarch 
}{ teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
}i  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 
Pastry  for  a  1-crust  pie 

Put  apple  slices  in  an  8-inch  square 
baking  pan. 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  and  sprinkle 
over  apples. 

Dot  with  the  fat. 


Roll  out  pastry  to  an  8-inch  square ; 
cut  a  few  slits  to  allow  steam  to  escape. 

Place  pastry  on  top  of  apples. 

Bake  at  400°  F.,  45  to  50  minutes 
or  until  apples  are  tender  and  crust 
browned. 

For  French  deep  dish  apple  pie,  add 
){  cup  raisins  to  the  apples.  Make  a 
frosting  by  mixing  and  beating  1  cup 
confectioner's  sugar  and  about  5  tea- 
spoons water.  When  pie  has  cooled 
slighdy,  spread  frosting  over  the  top. 

Deep  dish  cheese  apple  pie  is  a 
great  choice  in  Wisconsin  where  the 
apples  are  firm  and  tart  and  the  cheese 
is  excellent.  Just  sprinkle  shredded 
cheese  over  the  top  of  the  pie  and 
serve. 

Fruit  crunch  is  one  countrywide 
favorite,  as  it  can  be  made  from  many 
fruits  starting  early  in  the  season  with 
rhubarb  and  then  following  the  season 
through  to  late  fall  with  cranberries. 
Or  you  can  skip  the  seasons  by  using 
canned  or  frozen  fruit. 

PLUM  CRUNCH 

8  servings 

3  cups  pitted  and  quartered  fresh  plums 

y3  cup  granulated  sugar 

Yi  cup  brown  sugar,  packed 

y2  cup  quick-cooking  rolled  oats 

}i  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine,  melted 

Place  the  plums  in  an  8-inch  square 
baking  pan. 

Sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar. 

Combine  remaining  dry  ingredi- 
ents ;  mix  in  the  fat  until  crumbly. 

Sprinkle  mixture  over  the  fruit. 

Bake  1  hour  at  350°  F.  Serve  warm. 

You  can  use  peaches  or  nectarines 
in  place  of  plums.  Or  use  1  pint  of 
blueberries.  Mix ){ teaspoon  cinnamon 
with  the  sugar  and  sprinkle  these 
fruits  with  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 
Or  try  a  combination  of  2  cups  apple 


slices  and  2  cups  rhubarb  slices  (or  a 
12-ounce  package  of  frozen  rhubarb). 

Canned  fruit  pie  fillings  make  quick 
fruit  crunch  desserts.  Stir  1  tablespoon 
lemon  juice  into  1  can  of  pie  filling. 

It  is  simple  to  vary  the  flavors  by 
adding  only  a  few  ingredients.  For 
example,  use  %  teaspoon  ginger  with 
blueberries  and  %  teaspoon  almond 
extract  with  cherry.  Use  %  teaspoon 
cinnamon  and  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 
with  apple  pie  filling,  then  just  as  you 
serve  the  crunch,  sprinkle  it  with  % 
cup  grated  sharp  cheese. 

You  can  glamorize  peach  pie  filling 
in  a  crunch  by  adding  a  few  drops 
of  rum  extract,  %  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
and  %  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

The  ultimate  satisfaction  from  the 
fruits  you  serve  is  the  result  of  careful 
selection,  proper  storage,  and  your  art 
and  skill  in  using  fruits  in  many  ways. 


For  further  reading: 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Fam- 
ily Fare:  Food  Management  and  Recipes.  Home 
and  Garden  Bulletin  1,  Washington,  D.C. 
20250,  1966. 

Fruits  in  Family  Meals,  A  Guide  for 

Consumers.  Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  125, 
Washington,  D.C.  20250,  1968. 

Home  Canning  of  Fruits  and  Vegeta- 
bles. Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  8,  Washing- 
ton, D.C.  20250,  1965. 

Home  Care  of  Purchased  Frozen  Foods. 

Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  69,  Washington, 
D.C.  20250,  1967. 

Home  Freezing  of  Fruits  and  Vegeta- 
bles. Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  10,  Wash- 
ington, D.C.  20250,  1967. 

How  to  Buy  Fresh  Fruits.  Home  and 

Garden  Bulletin  141,  Washington,  D.C. 
20250,  1967. 

Official  Grade  Standards  and  Inspection 

for  Fresh  Fruits  and  Vegetables.  AMS-520, 
Washington,  D.C.  20250,  1963. 

Processed  Fruit  and  Vegetable  Inspec- 
tion .  .  .at  your  service.  Program  Aid  803,  Wash- 
ington, D.C.  20250,  1967. 

Storing  Perishable  Foods  in  the  Home. 

Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  78,  Washington, 
D.C.  20250,  1967. 

Storing  Vegetables  and  Fruits  in  Base- 
ments, Cellars,  Outbuildings,  and  Pits.  Home 
and  Garden  Bulletin  119,  Washington,  D.C. 
20250,  1966. 


173 


Michael  A.  Castille 
Elsie  H.  Dawson 
Edward  R.  Thompson 


The  Vegetable 
Roundup-; 
From  Buying 
to  Cooking 


Shopping  for  vegetables  can  be  a  de- 
light or  a  chore.  A  delight  if  you  know 
what  to  look  for,  a  chore  if  you  don't. 

The  selection  ranges  from  locally 
grown  sweet  corn,  harvested  only  hours 
ago,  to  the  more  exotic  artichokes  or 
brussels  sprouts  which  may  have  been 
transported  thousands  of  miles  by  fast 
jet  to  your  city. 

Nor  is  your  selection  limited  to  fresh 
vegetables.  Modern  technology  brings 
you  canned  and  frozen  vegetables  that 
were  harvested  weeks  or  months  ago 
at  the  peak  of  their  goodness,  and 
preserved  for  your  future  use  and 
convenience. 

But  vegetables,  whether  fresh  or 
processed  (canned,  frozen,  or  dried), 
can  vary  in  quality.  These  variations 
in  the  taste,  texture,  and  appearance 
of  a  vegetable  usually  make  a  differ- 
ence in  its  price. 

U.S.  grade  standards,  which  define 
the  differences  in  quality  found  in 
vegetables,  have  been  established  by 
the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
for  most  fresh  and  processed  vege- 
tables. USDA  also  administers  the 
Federal-State    Inspection    Service    to 

174 


provide  inspection  and  certification  of 
the  quality  of  fresh  vegetables  accord- 
ing to  the  U.S.  grade  standards,  and 
maintains  a  staff  of  Federal  inspectors 
for  processed  vegetables.  Use  of  the 
U.S.  grade  standards  and  inspection 
services  by  the  vegetable  industry  is 
voluntary,  and  users  must  pay  a  fee 
for  the  inspection  service. 

The  U.S.  grade  standards  and  in- 
spection services  are  used  extensively 
by  the  packers,  processors,  buyers,  and 
others  in  wholesale  trading  as  a  basis 
for  establishing  the  value  of  a  product. 
You  may  find  an  indication  of  the  U.S. 
grade  on  some  fresh  and  processed 
vegetables  in  your  grocery  store,  al- 
though this  is  not  required  by  Federal 
law.  A  few  States  require  that  some 
products  be  graded  and  labeled  on  the 
basis  of  either  Federal  or  State  grade 
standards. 

Grade  designations  found  on  pack- 
ages of  potatoes,  onions,  carrots,  and 
occasionally  other  fresh  vegetables  in 
retail  stores  do  not  mean  the  product 
has  been  officially  graded  unless  the 
package  also  bears  the  official  USDA 
grade  shield  or  the  statement  "Packed 
under  Continuous  Inspection  of  the 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture"  or 
"USDA  Inspected." 

U.S.  grades  for  fresh  vegetables  are : 

U.S.  Fancy — This  is  the  premium 
grade  for  some  vegetables.  It  means 
the  vegetables  have  outstanding  qual- 
ity and  appearance  compared  to  that 
usually  available.  Only  a  very  small 
percentage  of  a  crop  qualifies  for  this 
grade. 

U.S.  No.  1 — This  is  the  highest  grade 
for  most  vegetables.  In  a  normal  year, 
about  two-thirds  of  a  crop  meets  U.S. 
No.  1  grade.  These  vegetables  have 
good  quality  and  appearance  and  few 
defects. 


Michael  A.  Castille  is  a  Marketing  Specialist, 
Fruit  and  Vegetable  Division  (Fresh  Products), 
Consumer  and  Marketing  Service. 

Elsie  H.  Dawson  is  Head  of  the  Consumer  Use 
of  Foods  Staff,  Human  Nutrition  Research  Divi- 
sion, Agricultural  Research  Service. 

Edward  R.  Thompson  is  a  Marketing  Specialist, 
Fruit  and  Vegetable  Division  (Processed  Products), 
Consumer  and  Marketing  Service. 


Other  grades  for  fresh  vegetables — 
U.S.  No.  2  or  U.S.  Combination — are 
not  likely  to  be  seen  in  retail  stores. 

Like  fresh  vegetables,  most  canned 
and  frozen  vegetables  are  packed  and 
priced  according  to  their  quality  even 
though  a  grademark  is  not  on  the  label. 
But  if  a  vegetable  is  packed  under  con- 
tinuous USDA  inspection,  the  indi- 
vidual cans  and  packages  may  carry 
the  U.S.  grademark: 

U.S.  Grade  A  or  U.S.  Fancy — Grade  A 
vegetables  are  carefully  selected  for 
color,  tenderness,  and  freedom  from 
blemishes.  They  are  the  most  tender, 
succulent,  and  flavorful  vegetables 
produced. 

U.S.  Grade  B  or  U.S.  Extra  Standard — 
Grade  B  vegetables  have  excellent 
quality  but  are  not  quite  so  well  se- 
lected for  color  and  tenderness  as 
Grade  A.  They  are  usually  a  litde 
less  tasty. 

U.S.  Grade  C  or  U.S.  Standard- 
Grade  C  vegetables  are  not  so  uniform 
in  color,  tenderness,  and  flavor  as 
vegetables  in  the  higher  grades,  and 
they  are  usually  more  mature.  They 
are  a  thrifty  buy  when  appearance  is 
not  too  important — for  instance,  if 
you  are  using  the  vegetables  as  an 
ingredient  in  soup  or  souffle. 

The  "Packed  under  Continuous  In- 
spection of  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture"  shield  may  be  shown 
along  with  the  grade  shield,  or  it  may 
be  shown  by  itself. 

Sometimes  the  grade  name  is  indi- 
cated without  the  "U.S."  in  front  of 
it — for  example,  "Fancy"  or  "Grade 
A."  A  canned  or  frozen  vegetable  with 
this  designation  must  measure  up  to 


INSPECTION  SHIELD 


the  quality  stated,  even  though  it  has 
not  been  officially  inspected  for  grade. 

The  brand  name  of  a  frozen  or 
canned  vegetable  is  also  an  indication 
of  quality.  Producers  of  nationally 
advertised  products  spend  consider- 
able effort  to  maintain  the  same 
quality  year  after  year.  Unadvertised 
brands  may  also  offer  an  assurance  of 
quality,  often  at  a  slightly  lower  cost. 
And  many  stores,  particularly  chain- 
stores,  carry  two  or  more  qualities 
under  their  own  name  labels  (private 
labels).  Often  the  only  indication  of 
difference  in  quality  between  private- 
label  products  is  the  price. 

Other  factors  that  affect  the  price 
of  canned  or  frozen  vegetables — and 
how  you  want  to  use  them — are  the 
form  or  style  of  the  vegetable — whole, 
sliced,  cut — and  whether  special  sea- 
sonings, sauces,  or  flavorings  have 
been  added.  Whole  vegetables  gen- 
erally cost  more  than  cut  styles  because 
it  is  hard  to  keep  these  fragile  products 
whole  during  processing.  Added  sauces 
or  special  flavorings,  of  course,  also 
add  to  the  price,  but  let  you  serve 
something  different  without  any  extra 
work. 

Experience  is  the  best  teacher  in 
any  type  of  buying.  But  here  are  a  few 
general  rules  that  may  help  you: 

Don't  buy  fresh  vegetables  simply 
because  the  price  is  low.  It  doesn't  pay 
to  buy  more  vegetables  than  you  can 
use  without  waste.  Most  fresh  vege- 
tables can  be  stored  for  2  to  5  days, 
except  for  root  vegetables,  which  can 
be  stored  from  one  to  several  weeks. 

It's  "penny  foolish"  to  buy  fresh 
vegetables  affected  by  decay.  A  few 
cents  extra  for  vegetables  in  good 
condition  is  a  good  investment 

Fresh  vegetables  are  usually  at  their 
best  quality  and  price  at  the  peak  of 
the  season  when  they  are  in  plentiful 
supply.  USDA  will  notify  consumers 
through  newspapers  and  other  media 
when  vegetables  are  in  abundant 
supply  across  the  country. 

Be  careful  to  prevent  injury  to  fresh 
vegetables  when  you  are  picking  them 
out  in  the  store.  The  consumer  pays 
for  carelessness  in  the  long  run. 

175 


".:■*'**% 


USDA  inspector  examines  scallions  during  harvesting  by  Navajo  Indians  in  Arizona. 


Be  sure  to  check  the  label  on  canned, 
frozen,  and  dried  vegetables.  Besides 
describing  contents  of  the  package,  the 
label  may  tell  you  the  grade,  variety, 
size,  and  maturity  of  the  vegetables; 
seasonings ;  number  of  servings ;  cook- 
ing directions;  and  give  recipes  or 
serving  ideas.  Fair  packaging  and 
labeling  regulations  require  that  the 
label  give  the  net  contents  in  total 
ounces  as  well  as  in  pounds  and  ounces 
if  the  package  contains  1  pound  or 
more,  or  less  than  4  pounds.  This 
should  make  it  easier  for  you  to  com- 
pare prices. 

176 


Don't  buy  cans  of  vegetables  that 
leak  or  bulge  at  either  end.  Bulging  or 
swelling  indicates  spoilage.  Dents  in 
cans  do  not  harm  the  contents  unless 
they  have  actually  pierced  through 
the  can  or  sprung  the  seam. 

Packages  of  frozen  vegetables  should 
be  firm.  Because  frozen  vegetables 
should  be  used  immediately  after  they 
have  defrosted — to  avoid  loss  of  quality 
and  possible  contamination — do  not 
buy  packages  that  are  limp,  wet,  or 
sweating.  These  are  indications  the 
vegetables  have  defrosted  or  are  in  the 
process  of  defrosting.  Packages  stained 


by  the  contents  may  have  been  de- 
frosted and  refrozen  at  some  stage  in 
the  marketing  process.  The  vegetables 
may  not  be  contaminated,  but  refrozen 
vegetables  will  not  taste  as  good  as 
those  that  are  freshly  frozen. 

Buy  the  quality  and  style  of  canned 
and  frozen  vegetables  to  fit  the  use 
you  plan  to  make  of  the  vegetable. 
Grade  A  or  Fancy  vegetables  are  the 
pick  of  the  crop  and  may  cost  more 
than  Grade  B  or  C  vegetables.  They 
are  good  for  a  special  luncheon  or 
dinner.  Grade  B  or  Extra  Standard 
vegetables  may  not  look  or  taste  quite 
as  good  as  Grade  A  vegetables,  but 
they  are  good  served  alone  or  in  cas- 
seroles or  gelatin  salads.  Grade  C  or 
Standard  vegetables  are  just  as  nutri- 
tious as  Grades  A  and  B,  but  they 
don't  look  as  attractive.  They  are  more 
likely  to  be  used  in  making  soups  or 
purees,  and  they  also  may  be  used  in 
souffles. 

Some  vegetables,  such  as  beets,  are 
also  sized  when  they  are  processed 
whole,  so  that  you  can  buy  processed 
whole  beets  of  about  the  same  size. 
This  sizing  also  adds  to  the  cost  of 
the  processed  product,  but  whole  vege- 
tables of  about  the  same  size  are  very 


attractive  as  a  hot  vegetable  or  as  a 
cold  salad. 

Fancy-cut  vegetables,  such  as  french- 
style  green  beans  or  julienne  carrots 
(french-style  and  julienne  are  both 
sliced  lengthwise)  usually  cost  more 
than  other  cut  styles  and,  because  they 
are  more  attractive,  are  intended  for 
use  as  hot  vegetables  or  cold  salads. 

Short-cut  green  beans,  diced  car- 
rots, and  tomato  pieces  are  examples 
of  the  least  expensive  styles  of  proc- 
essed vegetables,  and  the  styles  that 
are  best  used  for  soups,  souffles,  or 
stews. 

Whether  you  buy  fresh  or  processed 
vegetables,  knowing  how  many  pounds 
or  what  package  or  can  size  to  buy  is 
sometimes  a  problem.  The  serving  size 
commonly  used  for  adults  is  M  cup,  and 
for  young  children,  }i  cup.  But  of 
course,  how  much  you  serve  depends 
on  your  preference  for  the  particular 
vegetable,  whether  or  not  you  include 
the  juice  in  the  serving,  and  if  you  plan 
to  allow  for  second  helpings,  especially 
for  a  company  dinner. 

To  help  you  make  a  good  buy,  and 
use  your  purchase  wisely,  the  qualities 
to  look  for  in  fresh  vegetables  and  the 
styles  of  canned  and  frozen  vegetables 


Guide  to  Amounts  of  Vegetables  to  Buy  to  Serve  Your  Family 


Vegetable  and  style 


Approximate  amount  of  cooked  vegetable  obtained  from- 


Frozen  vegetables 


Size  of  Cooked, 

container  Cups 

(ounces) 


Canned  vegetables 
(drained) 


Size  of 
container 
(ounces) 


Heated, 
Cups 


1  lb.  of  fresh 
vegetable  as 
purchased— 

Cups 


Asparagus,  cut 

Beans,  green  or  wax,  cut 

Beans,  lima 

Beets,  sliced,  diced  or  whole 

Broccoli,  cut 

Brussels  sprouts 

Cabbage,  shredded 
Carrots,  diced,  or  sliced 

Cauliflower 

Corn,  whole  kernel 

Kale 

Okra 

Peas 

Potatoes 

Spinach 

Summer  squash,  sliced 
Tomatoes 


i  Whole  kernels  with  liquid;  a  12  oz.  can  of  whole  kernels,  vacuum  pack,  provides  1%  cups. 

2  French  fries. 

3  Mashed. 

1  Undrained. 


177 


that  are  available  are  given  in  the  list 
that  follows.  Grades  of  several  of  the 
more  familiar  canned  and  frozen 
vegetables  are  described  so  that  you 
can  determine  differences  in  quality 
for  yourself. 

Most  people  tend  to  cook  and  serve 
vegetables  plain,  buttered  at  all  times. 
Yet  there  are  many  delightful  ways  to 
prepare  most  vegetables.  With  each 
vegetable  listing,  ways  are  suggested  to 
serve  vegetables  so  that  your  family 
will  really  enjoy  them. 

Artichokes.  This  vegetable  has  a 
delicate,  nutty  flavor  that  makes  it  first 
choice  among  gourmets. 

Artichoke  hearts — the  tender  inner 
part  of  the  vegetable — are  available 
frozen  and  canned.  Artichoke  hearts 
are  also  packed  in  vinegar  and  sauces, 
to  be  used  like  pickles  or  as  hors 
d'oeuvres.  Canned  whole  artichokes 
may  be  used  like  fresh  artichokes. 

When  you  buy  the  fresh  vegetable, 
look  for  plump,  globe  to  cone-shaped 
artichokes  that  are  heavy  in  relation 
to  their  size,  and  have  thick,  green, 
fresh-looking  petals  or  leaves  which 
tightly  enfold  the  bud. 

To  clean  fresh  artichokes,  hold  them 
under  running  water  or  dip  them  in  a 
pan  of  cold  water.  With  a  sharp  knife, 
cut  off  about  1  inch  from  the  top  and 
trim  off  the  thorny  tip  of  each  leaf 
with  a  pair  of  scissors.  Cut  off  stem 
and  pull  off  any  loose  leaves  around 
the  bottom.  Artichokes  discolor  rapidly 
after  they  are  cut.  To  keep  them  light 
before  cooking,  put  them  in  a  pan  of 
water  with  vinegar  or  lemon  juice 
added,  about  3  tablespoons  for  each 
quart  of  water. 

To  cook  whole  artichokes,  place 
them  upright  in  a  deep  saucepan  in 
about  3  inches  of  boiling,  salted  water. 
Cover  pan  and  cook  until  tender, 
about  15  to  45  minutes  depending  on 
size  and  variety.  They  are  tender  when 
you  can  easily  pierce  the  stalk  or 
readily  pull  out  a  leaf.  Drain  upside 
down. 

A  popular  sauce  for  hot  artichokes 
is  made  by  combining  %  cup  melted 
butter  or  margarine,  %  teaspoon  of 
salt,  }i  teaspoon  pepper,   1   teaspoon 

178 


sugar,  \i  cup  lemon  juice,  and  2  table- 
spoons minced  parsley.  Heat  a  minute 
or  two,  until  flavors  blend.  Dip  the 
tender  end  of  each  leaf  into  the  sauce 
before  you  eat  it. 

Cooked  fresh  or  frozen  artichokes 
and  canned  artichokes  may  also  be 
served  cold.  French  dressing,  oil  and 
lemon  juice,  or  thinned  mayonnaise 
are  good  dressings.  Split  fresh  arti- 
chokes lengthwise  and  remove  and 
discard  the  chokes  before  serving.  Cold 
artichokes  are  especially  good  served 
with  shrimp  or,  crab  meat  salad,  or 
with  tomato  wedges,  olives,  and  dill 
pickle. 

Asparagus.  There  are  two  types  of 
asparagus — green  and  white.  Green 
asparagus  is  sold  fresh,  frozen,  and 
canned;  white  asparagus  is  mostly 
canned.  Whole  spears  and  tips  (the 
most  prized  part  of  asparagus)  are 
more  expensive  than  cut  styles  of 
frozen  or  canned  asparagus. 

Fresh  asparagus  should  have  closed, 
compact  tips  and  smooth,  round, 
tender  spears,  with  a  rich  green  color 
covering  most  of  the  spear.  Tips  that 
are  open  or  spread  or  spears  that  are 
angular  or  ridged  are  signs  of  aging. 

Fresh  asparagus  should  be  washed 
thoroughly.  Scrub  the  stalks  gentiy  with 
a  vegetable  brush  and  scrape  off  the 
scales  if  they  are  sandy.  Break  off  the 
stalks  as  far  down  as  they  will  snap 
easily.  Usually  the  white  portion  is 
tough. 

Asparagus  may  be  left  whole,  cut 
into  l^-inch  pieces,  or  sliced  diago- 
nally, making  thin  slanting  slices  about 
\}i  inches  long.  Cut  several  stalks  at 
one  time  on  a  cutting  board. 

To  cook  whole  asparagus,  tie  them 
in  a  bundle  with  a  band  of  foil,  and 
stand  the  stalks  upright  in  about  1  inch 
of  boiling  salted  water  in  a  deep  pan. 
If  you  cook  asparagus  laid  flat  in  the 
pan,  place  them  on  a  strip  of  foil  so 
that  they  can  be  removed  by  lifting 
the  ends  of  the  foil  strip.  Cover  and 
cook  until  stalks  are  just  tender  when 
pierced  with  a  fork,  about  10  to  20 
minutes. 

Oriental  cooks  cut  asparagus  into 
thin   slanting   slices   and   cook   them 


until  barely  tender.  Use  }i  cup  water 
and  3  tablespoons  of  vegetable  oil  to 
cook  about  3  cups  of  cut  asparagus. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
monosodium  glutamate  and  cook  for 
3  to  5  minutes. 

Asparagus  is  good  either  hot  or  cold. 
Pour  lemon-butter  sauce  or  hollan- 
daise  sauce  over  hot  asparagus;  or 
add  diced,  hard-cooked  eggs  to  a 
medium  white  sauce  to  serve  over  it. 
Or  you  can  sprinkle  crisp  bacon  bits 
or  toasted  blanched  almonds  over 
hot  buttered  asparagus.  Some  like 
Italian  dressing  on  asparagus. 

For  Chive  Asparagus,  slowly  heat 
one  3-ounce  package  of  chive  cream 
cheese  and  stir  until  soft  and  creamy. 
Pour  over  hot  asparagus. 

For  Marinated  Asparagus,  chill 
cooked  whole  asparagus.  Top  it  with 
french  dressing  and  snipped  parsley. 

For  Asparagus  with  Croutons,  dice 
bread  in  tiny  squares  and  brown  them 
in  a  litde  butter  or  margarine  in  a 
frying  pan.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  garlic  salt,  curry  powder,  or 
any  favorite  herb.  Sprinkle  over  hot 
buttered  asparagus. 


Beans,  Green  and  Wax.  Called  string 
beans  before  the  development  of 
stringless  varieties,  or  snap  beans,  pole 
beans,  or  bush  beans  when  they  are 
fresh,  the  canned  and  frozen  products 
are  usually  known  as  green  beans  and 
wax  beans.  Wax  beans  are  so  called 
because  of  their  waxy  yellow  color. 
There  is  litde  difference  in  nutritional 
value  of  the  two  types  of  beans,  but 
green  beans  are  more  common. 

Styles  of  both  frozen  and  canned 
green  and  wax  beans  are  whole, 
french  (julienne  or  shoestring),  and 
cut.  Beans  cut  diagonally  are  called 
"kitchen  cuts"  or  "home  cuts." 

Fresh  snap  beans  should  be  crisp 
and  firm  but  tender,  with  a  bright 
green  or  yellow  color.  Thick,  tough, 
fibrous  pods  are  overmature. 

Green  and  wax  beans  may  be  served 
in  vegetable  salads,  either  hot  or 
chilled.  Often  they  are  marinated  and 
served  cold  alone  or  with  other  salad 
vegetables.  Snap  beans  also  are  a  good 
ingredient  of  stews  and  soups.  Cooked 
fresh  or  frozen  beans  and  canned  beans 
can  be  used  interchangeably  in  most 
recipes. 


Asparagus  served  with  new  potatoes  and  garnished  with  peas,  celery,  and  white  sauce. 


"^ 


There  are  many  ways  to  prepare 
fresh  green  or  wax  beans.  You  can 
leave  them  whole,  snap  or  cut  across 
into  1-inch  pieces,  cut  on  the  diagonal 
in  thin  pieces,  or — slice  them  length- 
wise with  a  sharp  knife  or  put  through 
a  bean  sheer.  Wash  and  snip  off  the 
ends  before  you  cut  them. 

To  cook  fresh  snap  beans  in  a  small 
amount  of  water,  add  beans  from  1 
pound  as  purchased  to  K  or  1  cup 
boiling  water  in  a  saucepan.  If  you 
wish,  add  %  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  pan. 
Cook  the  shortest  time  possible  until 
just  tender  for  the  best  flavored  beans 
— 12  to  16  minutes  for  1-inch  pieces, 
slightly  less  time  for  diagonal  and 
lengthwise  cut,  and  slightly  more  time 
for  whole  beans. 

Flavor  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter 
or  margarine,  and  serve  hot.  For  a 
more  sophisticated  dish,  beans  may  be 
served  like  asparagus  with  a  hollan- 
daise,  cheese,  or  mushroom  sauce. 
Some  folks  like  to  add  bacon  or  salt 
pork  before  cooking  to  give  a  special 
flavor  to  beans. 

A  recipe  from  Greece  called  "Yahni" 
combines  1  pound  green  beans,  a  sliced 
onion,  and  1^  cups  canned  tomatoes 
or  3  fresh  tomatoes.  Cook  cut-up  beans 
in  a  very  small  amount  of  water  for  10 
to  15  minutes,  add  the  onion  and  to- 
matoes, and  season  with  vegetable  oil, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Add  a  few  pieces  of 
cooked  lamb  or  other  meat,  if  desired, 
and  cook  slowly  for  %  hour. 

Other  countries  have  modified  this 
recipe  by  adding  a  minced  garlic  clove, 
chopped  green  pepper,  diced  celery, 
and  chopped  parsley.  These  ingredi- 
ents may  be  cooked  for  a  few  minutes 
in  butter  or  margarine  before  adding 
beans. 

Beans,  Lima.  Practically  all  the  lima 
bean  crop  is  processed  into  canned  or 
frozen  products,  but  a  small  supply  of 
local  or  "home-grown"  fresh  limas 
may  be  found  in  food  stores  in  summer 
and  fall. 

Fresh  lima  bean  pods  should  be  well 
filled  and  have  a  bright  appearance. 
Lima  beans  from  pods  that  are  dried, 
shriveled,  or  yellow  are  more  like  dried 
limas  in  flavor. 

180 


Several  types  of  lima  beans  are 
canned  and  frozen.  Fordhook  variety,  a 
name  often  shown  on  labels,  has  large, 
thick  beans.  Several  varieties  of  limas 
have  small,  thin  beans;  these  are  usu- 
ally called  baby  limas.  Lima  beans  are 
white,  yellow,  or  green,  depending  on 
their  maturity  when  harvested.  Each 
color  has  its  own  flavor.  Green  limas 
are  usually  the  youngest  beans. 

Speckled  butter  beans  are  another 
variety  of  lima  bean,  found  mosdy  in 
frozen  form.  They  are  larger  than  most 
other  lima  beans  and  have  a  different 
flavor. 

U.S.  Grades  A  and  B  lima  beans  are 
less  starchy  than  Grade  C,  and  baby 
limas  are  less  starchy  than  the  larger 
beans. 

Cook  fresh  lima  beans  in  a  small 
amount  of  boiling  salted  water  for 
25  to  30  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Add 
seasonings  and  butter  or  margarine. 

Fresh,  frozen,  or  canned  lima  beans 
can  be  used  in  this  recipe  for  Green 
Lima  Bean  Casserole. 

GREEN  LIMA  BEAN  CASSEROLE 

6  servings,  %  cup  each 

%  cup  milk 

1  can  (1QH  ounces)  condensed  cheese 
soup 

1  cup  diced  celery 

}i  cup  cut-up  parsley 

2  cups  cooked  green  lima  beans 

%  cup  canned  french-fried  onion  rings 

Blend  milk  with  soup.  Add  celery, 
parsley,  and  lima  beans.  Place  mixture 
in  a  baking  dish.  Top  with  onion 
rings.  Bake  at  350°  F.  for  45  minutes. 

Beets.  Beautiful,  rich-red  beets  can 
liven  up  any  meal.  Young  beets  (small 
beets  from  1  }i  to  2}4  inches  in  diameter) 
are  usually  sold  with  the  tops  still 
attached,  and  older  beets  (usually 
larger  than  2\i  inches  in  diameter) 
with  the  tops  removed.  (See  "Greens, 
cooked"  for  discussion  of  beet  tops.) 

Canned  beets  are  available  whole, 
sliced,  quartered,  diced,  and  in  strips. 
They  may  be  served  as  a  hot  dish  or 
used  in  cold  salads.  Beets  prepared  in 
a  slightly  thickened,  sweet  vinegar 
sauce  are  called  Harvard  beets. 


Fresh  beets  should  be  firm  and 
round,  smooth  over  most  of  their 
surface,  and  have  a  rich,  deep-red 
color.  If  they  are  bunched,  you  can 
judge  their  freshness  fairly  accurately 
by  the  condition  of  the  tops.  Decayed 
or  badly  wilted  tops  indicate  lack  of 
freshness,  but  the  beets  may  be  usable 
if  they  are  firm.  Avoid  elongated  beets 
with  rough,  scaly  areas  around  the  top 
surface — they  may  be  tough,  fibrous, 
and  strong  flavored. 

The  red  color  pigment  in  beets  is 
extremely  soluble  in  water,  so  it's  best 
to  cook  fresh  beets  whole  in  their 
skins  with  a  litde  of  the  beet  tops  and 
roots  left  on  them.  Use  enough  boiling 
salted  water  to  almost  cover  the  beets. 
The  red  pigment  is  more  stable  if  a 
litde  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  is  added 
to  the  water. 

Depending  on  size,  the  cooking  time 
for  young  beets  varies  from  30  to  45 
minutes  and  for  older  beets  from  45  to 
90  minutes.  When  the  beets  are  tender, 
remove  them  from  the  water,  cool 
slightly,  and  slip  off  the  skins,  stems, 
and  roots  by  rubbing  with  your  fingers. 
Beets  may  then  be  served  whole,  sliced, 
diced,  or  cut  into  strips.  Season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper  or  other 
spices,  and  add  butter  or  margarine, 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar  as  desired. 

BEETS  IN  ORANGE  SAUCE 

6  servings,  X  CUP  each 

Yi  cup  sugar 

%  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

%  cup  orange  juice 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  margarine 

3  cups  drained  sliced  beets,  canned  or 
cooked 

Mix  sugar,  salt,  and  cornstarch  in  a 
saucepan.  Stir  in  the  orange  juice  and 
cook  until  thickened,  stirring  con- 
standy.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir  in 
lemon  juice  and  fat.  Pour  sauce  over 
beets  and  heat. 

Broccoli.  The  tender  young  stalks  and 
branches  and  their  bud  clusters  (or 
heads)  are  the  edible  part  of  broccoli. 

Fresh  broccoli  has  firm,  compact 


bud  clusters  that  are  dark  green  or  sage 
green,  sometimes  with  a  pronounced 
purplish  cast.  None  of  the  small  flower 
buds  should  have  opened  enough  to 
show  the  yellow  color,  and  the  stalks 
and  branches  should  be  firm  and 
tender.  Broccoli  that  is  wilted  or  has 
spread  bud  clusters,  enlarged  or  open 
buds,  or  a  yellowish-green  color  is 
overmature  or  has  been  on  display  for 
too  long. 

The  highest  quality  frozen  broccoli, 
with  its  compact  bud  clusters,  looks 
much  like  the  fresh  product.  Second 
quality  broccoli  may  have  slighdy 
spread  bud  clusters.  Frozen  broccoli  is 
prepared  as  whole  spears  or  stalks, 
short  spears  or  florets  (the  head  with  a 
short  portion  of  the  stalk),  broccoli 
cuts  or  pieces,  and  chopped  broccoli. 

The  fleshy  stalks  of  broccoli  take 
longer  to  cook  than  the  blossoms,  so 
fresh  broccoli  may  be  cooked  like 
asparagus,  with  the  stalks  standing  in 
boiling  salted  water  and  the  buds 
cooking  in  the  steam.  Or  the  broccoli 
may  be  cut  in  pieces  and  the  stems 
cooked  a  short  time  before  adding  the 
buds.  Large  stalks  may  be  sliced 
lengthwise  and  they  will  then  cook  as 
quickly  as  the  florets.  Short  cooking 
and  litde  water  tend  to  preserve  the 
nutrients  and  flavor. 

Serve  broccoli  spears  with  a  tart 
sauce  made  by  mixing  2  tablespoons 
of  lemon  juice,  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter  or  margarine,  and  IX  teaspoons 
prepared  horseradish  with  X  teaspoon 
salt,  IX  teaspoons  sugar,  and  X  tea- 
spoon paprika.  Mix  well  and  pour 
over  hot  broccoli. 

Chopped  broccoli  is  a  flavorsome 
party  food  when  it  is  used  in  a  souffle 
and  served  with  creamy  mushroom 
sauce. 

Brussels  Sprouts.  Fresh  brussels  sprouts 
should  be  firm,  bright  green,  free  from 
blemishes,  and  have  tight-fitting  outer 
leaves.  Sprouts  with  yellow  or  yellow- 
ish-green leaves,  or  leaves  which  are 
loose,  soft,  or  wilted,  are  not  a  good 
buy.  Small  holes  in  the  leaves  or  ragged 
leaves  may  be  signs  of  worm  injury. 

Frozen  sprouts  are  trimmed  and 
have  the  outer  leaves  removed,  but 

181 


otherwise  closely  resemble  fresh  sprouts. 

When  preparing  fresh  sprouts  for 
cooking,  remove  any  yellowed  leaves 
and  trim  off  a  bit  of  the  stems.  Wash 
fresh  sprouts  thoroughly  in  cold  water 
and  soak  in  cold  salt  water  for  30 
minutes  to  an  hour  to  remove  insects 
if  any  are  present. 

Cook  fresh  sprouts  in  a  small  amount 
(not  more  than  1  cup  to  1  pound  of 
sprouts)  of  boiling  salted  water  in  a 
saucepan.  Cover  pan  and  cook  for 
15  to  20  minutes  or  until  just  tender. 
Overcooking  may  produce  a  strong 
flavor  and  discoloration  and  cause  loss 
of  vitamins.  Drain,  add  butter  or 
margarine,  salt,  and  pepper,  or  any 
other  seasonings  you  prefer. 

Brussels  sprouts  are  delicious  served 
with  either  cheese  sauce  or  hollandaise 
sauce.  Sprinkle  buttered  breadcrumbs 
or  chopped  nuts  over  the  top  for  that 
special  company  dinner. 

Cabbage.  Smooth-leaved  green,  crin- 
kly-leaved green  Savoy,  and  red  cab- 
bage are  the  three  groups  of  cabbage. 
All  three  types  are  suitable  for  cooking 
or  serving  cold  in  salads,  but  the  Savoy 
and  red  varieties  are  more  in  demand 
for  slaws  and  salads.  (See  "Greens,  salad," 
for  discussion  of  Chinese  cabbage.) 

Good  heads  of  cabbage  are  firm  or 
hard,  heavy  for  their  size,  with  crisp 
leaves.  The  outer  leaves  should  be  free 
from  serious  blemishes.  These  outer 
or  "wrapper  leaves"  are  usually  dis- 
carded, but  too  many  blemished  leaves 
cause  extra  waste.  Old  cabbage  (cab- 
bage that  has  been  stored)  may  lack 
green  color,  but  is  satisfactory  if  the 
leaves  are  not  wilted  or  discolored.  If 
the  leaves  have  separated  from  the 
base  of  the  head,  the  cabbage  may 
be  too  old. 

Sauerkraut  is  the  only  form  of  proc- 
essed cabbage  available  in  food  stores. 
The  shredded  cabbage  is  fermented  in 
a  brine  of  its  own  juice  and  salt.  Some 
is  flavored  with  peppers,  pimientos, 
tomatoes,  or  various  spices.  It  is  avail- 
able canned  and  in  refrigerated  pack- 
ages, and  at  times  a  semifresh  prod- 
uct is  sold  from  barrels  or  similar 
containers. 

Cook  fresh  cabbage  the  shortest  time 

182 


possible  and  use  very  litde  water  to 
save  its  high  nutritive  value.  Never 
overcook  cabbage  because  the  flavor 
gets  strong  and  it  loses  its  crisp  texture. 

The  cooking  time  in  a  saucepan  is 
short — only  3  to  1 0  minutes — for  shred- 
ded cabbage  of  different  varieties. 
Finely  shredded  cabbage  can  also  be 
cooked  in  a  frying  pan  in  a  small 
amount  of  fat  (1  tablespoon)  and  water 
(2  tablespoons),  and  %  teaspoon  salt 
for  each  quart  of  shredded  cabbage. 
Cover  pan  to  hold  in  steam.  Cook  over 
low  heat  until  vegetable  is  tender  in  6 
to  8  minutes. 

For  a  different  flavor,  cabbage  can 
be  cooked  in  milk.  Add  1  quart  shred- 
ded cabbage  to  1>£  cups  milk,  and 
simmer  for  2  minutes.  Mix  2  table- 
spoons each  of  flour  and  melted  fat 
and  add  a  little  of  the  hot  milk.  Stir 
this  mixture  into  the  cabbage  and  cook 
for  3  to  4  minutes,  or  until  thickened, 
stirring  constandy.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Cabbage  slaw,  hot  or  cold,  is  a 
favorite  in  many  countries.  The  cab- 
bage is  chopped  coarsely  or  shredded 
in  thin  strips,  as  preferred,  and  a  favor- 
ite dressing  and  seasonings  are  added. 
A  litde  vinegar,  salt,  sugar,  and  pepper 
is  sufficient  for  some  palates.  Sweet  or 
sour  cream  salad  dressing  or  mayon- 
naise is  preferred  by  others.  To  prepare 
hot  slaw,  make  a  hot  salad  dressing 
and  stir  in  finely  shredded  cabbage. 
Cover  and  heat  a  few  minutes  before 
serving. 

Red  cabbage  will  retain  its  red  color 
during  cooking  if  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice  is  added  to  the  water. 

In  Europe  and  the  Near  East,  cab- 
bage leaves  also  are  used  to  wrap 
around  meat  rolls.  Cook  the  cabbage 
leaves  until  wilted  (about  5  minutes) 
in  boiling  water.  Wrap  around  a  meat 
filling  and  place  in  heavy  frying  pan. 
Add  2  cups  tomato  juice,  cover,  and 
cook  30  minutes. 

Carrots.  The  carrot  is  a  versatile 
vegetable  and  it  is  good  when  served 
alone  or  in  combination  with  meats 
or  other  vegetables. 

Fresh  carrots  should  be  reasonably 
well  formed,  smooth,  firm,  and  have  a 


good  orange  color.  Watch  out  for 
excessively  rough  or  cracked  carrots, 
or  carrots  with  large  green  areas  at 
the  top. 

Canned  and  frozen  carrots  are  avail- 
able whole,  quartered,  diced,  as  strips, 
and  round  slices  (cuts).  Canned  small 
baby  carrots  are  especially  flavorful. 

Fresh  carrots  are  easy  to  prepare. 
First  wash  them  well  and  pare  or 
scrape  to  remove  the  thin  skin.  A 
vegetable  parer  does  the  job  quickly; 
or  leave  the  skin  on  if  you  like.  Leave 
whole,  dice,  or  cut  into  round  slices 
or  lengthwise  strips. 

Cook  young,  whole  carrots  for  15  to 
20  minutes  and  older  ones  20  to  30 
minutes.  Sliced  or  diced  carrots  may 
be  cooked  in  as  litde  as  10  minutes. 
Use  a  small  amount  of  water,  only  Mi 
to  1  cup  for  6  servings  of  carrots;  add 
Mi  teaspoon  salt  and  1  teaspoon  sugar 
to  the  water,  if  desired.  Cover  the  pan 
so  carrots  will  cook  in  the  steam. 

Carrots  can  also  be  baked,  particu- 
larly when  you  are  planning  an  oven 
meal.  Cut  the  carrots  in  half  and  place 
them  in  a  casserole  with  }i  cup  water, 
2  or  3  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine, 
and  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper. 
Cover  the  casserole  and  bake  at  375°  F. 
for  45  minutes,  or  until  carrots  are 
tender.  Whole  carrots  also  may  be 
baked  with  roasted  meats,  adding  them 
in  the  last  45  minutes  before  the  meat 
is  done. 

Some  good  carrot  combinations  are : 

•  Carrot  strips  and  whole  green  snap 
beans  cooked  with  a  litde  dill  seed, 
sugar,  and  salt  in  the  cooking  water 
and  served  with  kalian  dressing. 

•  Braised  carrots  and  celery  cooked 
in  margarine  and  a  litde  water. 

•  Carrots  and  onions,  cut  finely  and 
cooked  in  bacon  fat  or  margarine  in  a 
tighdy  covered  frying  pan. 

•  Carrots  diced  and  creamed  with 
peas  and  new  potatoes. 

Carrots  are  also  good  sliced  raw  as 
a  crisp  relish;  shredded  or  sliced  in 
salads,  either  alone  or  with  other 
vegetables;  glazed  in  honey  or  brown 
sugar;  or  combined  with  meats  in  the 


main  dish.  Carrots  are  often  used  to 
give  color  to  soups. 

For  a  very  elegant  carrot  casserole, 
combine  3  cups  of  cooked,  sliced 
carrots  (fresh,  frozen,  or  canned)  with 
1  can  (lOM-ounce)  condensed  celery 
soup,  and  1  cup  of  shredded  process 
cheese  in  a  baking  dish.  Mix  1  table- 
spoon melted  butter  or  margarine  with 
}i  cup  of  fine  dry  breadcrumbs  and 
sprinkle  on  top  of  carrots.  Bake  at 
350°  F.  for  about  20  minutes  to  brown 
crumbs. 

Cauliflower.  Fresh  cauliflower  sold  at 
retail  is  generally  wrapped  in  clear 
plastic  film  with  most  of  the  green 
outer  leaf  covering  (the  jacket  leaves) 
removed. 

The  white,  edible  portion  of  cauli- 
flower (the  curd)  should  be  clean, 
compact,  and  white  to  creamy-white. 
A  slightly  "ricey"  texture  will  not 
hurt  the  eating  quality  if  the  curd  is 
compact.  If  the  jacket  leaves  are 
attached,  good  green  color  is  a  sign 
of  freshness. 

Frozen  cauliflower  is  separated  into 
florets,  ready  to  cook.  Grade  A  frozen 
cauliflower  looks  almost  like  the  fresh 
product.  Grade  B  often  looks  slighdy 
gray  or  brown  but  turns  white  when 
cooked. 

To  cook  fresh  cauliflower,  cut  away 
the  tough  outer  leaves  and  part  of 
the  core.  The  head  may  be  left  whole 
or  separated  into  florets.  Whole  cauli- 
flower will  cook  in  boiling  water  in 
15  to  25  minutes;  florets  in  8  to  15 
minutes. 

Cauliflower  will  discolor  if  over- 
cooked. Also,  it  can  pick  up  an  un- 
attractive yellowish  cast  if  cooked  in 
a  hard  or  alkaline  water.  Adding  a 
teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  to  the  water 
will  help  to  keep  the  cauliflower  nice 
and  white. 

Because  of  its  bland  flavor,  cooked 
cauliflower  goes  very  well  with  many 
sauces — white,  cheese,  or  mushroom, 
or  the  more  highly  flavored  hollan- 
daise  or  vinaigrette  sauces.  To  add 
interest,  sprinkle  the  cauliflower  with 
fine  breadcrumbs  lightiy  browned  in 
butter,  and  garnish  with  chopped 
fresh  parsley. 

183 


Spices  and  herbs  that  go  well  with 
cauliflower  are  caraway  seed,  celery 
salt,  dill,  mace,  and  tarragon.  Use 
them  sparingly  to  enhance  the  natural 
flavor  of  the  cauliflower.  In  India, 
cauliflower  is  cooked  with  ginger, 
cloves,  cardamom  seeds,  and  cin- 
namon sticks.  In  Spain,  grated  orange 
rind  is  sprinkled  on  top.  Scandinavians 
prefer  a  dill  sauce. 

If  you  want  to  cook  cauliflower  like 
the  Chinese  do,  slice  each  floret  thinly. 
Place  1  quart  florets  in  a  heavy  pan, 
sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  and  add  % 
cup  hot  water.  Cook  covered  about 
5  minutes  or  until  slightly  crisp.  Add 
2  tablespoons  each  butter  or  mar- 
garine and  heavy  cream.  Heat  for  1 
or  2  minutes  longer  and  serve  with 
cut-up  chives  or  parsley  sprinkled  on 
the  top. 

Celery.  Celery  has  many  uses,  both 
as  a  raw  and  cooked  vegetable.  Its 
crunchy  goodness  is  important  in 
salads,  sandwich  fillings,  and  as  a 
relish  or  snack  food.  Raw  celery  stuffed 
with  creamy  cheese  or  other  filling  is 
an  old  standby. 

Most  celery  found  in  retail  stores  is 
of  the  thick-branched  green  varieties 
(it's  known  as  the  "Pascal"  type),  al- 
though Golden-type  blanched  celery 
may  occasionally  be  available.  Celery 
hearts  are  the  tender  inner  branches 
of  the  stalk. 

Freshness  and  crispness  are  a  must  in 
celery.  The  stalk  should  have  a  solid, 
rigid  feel.  Outer  branches  should  be 
light  to  medium  green  with  a  glossy 
surface.  Small  leaflets  at  the  top  of  the 
stalk  should  be  mosdy  green  and  not 
more  than  slighdy  wilted. 

Celery  is  usually  cut  up  for  cooking 
in  a  small  amount  of  salted  water, 
using  about  }i  cup  water,  }i  teaspoon 
salt,  and  \%  pounds  celery  for  6  serv- 
ings, H  cup  each.  Cook  for  about  15 
minutes  in  a  tighdy  covered  pan. 
Season  the  drained  celery  with  salt  and 
butter,  or  add  a  white  sauce.  Season 
the  sauce  with  curry,  celery  seed,  dill 
seed,  or  freshly  grated  nutmeg. 

To  make  Celery  Au  Gratin,  put 
cooked  celery  in  white  sauce  in  a 
baking  dish,  cover  the  top  with  bread- 

184 


crumbs,  and  dot  with  butter  or 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  (400°  F.)  until  it  is  lighdy 
browned. 

Creamed  celery  is  also  good  com- 
bined with  cooked  green  pepper  strips, 
green  beans,  or  green  peas. 

Corn.  Sweet  corn  may  have  either 
white  or  yellow  kernels,  but  yellow 
varieties  make  up  most  of  the  com- 
mercial production. 

When  you  buy  fresh  sweet  corn,  look 
for  ears  that  are  well  covered  with 
bright,  plump  kernels  and  husks  that 
are  fresh  and  green. 

Ears  with  small  underdeveloped 
kernels  are  immature,  and  ears  with 
very  large,  tough,  deep-colored  kernels 
are  overmature.  Avoid  the  ears  with 
dented  or  shrunken  kernels.  Corn  with 
husks  that  are  yellow,  wilted,  or  dried 
should  be  checked  carefully  for  dented 
kernels. 

Processed  sweet  corn  is  found  in  many 
forms,  styles,  and  grades.  Canned 
corn  may  be  cream-style  with  the 
kernels  cut  into  smaller  pieces  so  as  to 
have  the  consistency  of  a  very  thick 
cream;  whole-grain  style,  with  the 
kernels  generally  whole  and  packed  in 
a  relatively  clear  liquid;  and  vacuum- 
pack  whole  grain,  with  litde  or  no 
free  liquid.  Most  canned  corn  is  pre- 
pared from  yellow  or  orange  varieties, 
but  some  white  corn  also  is  canned. 
"Shoe  peg"  corn,  a  whole-grain  white 
corn,  has  small,  narrow  kernels  with 
a  distinctive  flavor. 

Most  frozen  corn  is  whole-grain 
yellow  corn.  A  considerable  amount  is 
frozen  on  the  cob. 

Both  canned  and  frozen  corn  may 
have  peppers  or  pimientos  or  other 
foods  added  for  flavor  or  appearance. 

Much  processed  corn  is  packed 
according  to  U.S.  grades,  with  the 
USDA  grademark  on  the  label : 

U.S.  Grade  A  is  tender  and  suc- 
culent, free  from  defects,  and  has 
excellent  flavor. 

U.S.  Grade  B  is  slightly  more 
mature  and  more  chewy  than  grade  A, 
reasonably  free  from  defects,  and  has 
a  good  flavor. 

U.S.  Grade  C  is  more  mature  and 


starchier  than  grades  A  and  B,  but  it 
is  flavorful  and  nourishing. 

Fresh  sweet  corn  loses  its  good  flavor 
quickly  after  it  is  picked  because  the 
sugar  turns  into  starch  as  a  result  of 
enzymatic  activity. 

For  best  quality  retention,  do  not 
remove  husks  from  fresh  corn  until  it 
is  to  be  cooked.  Remove  silks  with  a 
stiff  brush.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  to  a 
large  pan  half  full  of  boiling  water. 
Cook  corn  on  the  cob  for  5  to  15  min- 
utes, depending  on  its  age  and  fresh- 
ness. Serve  the  corn  hot  with  plenty  of 
butter  or  margarine,  and  pass  the  salt 
and  pepper. 

Corn  in  cream  is  a  good  way  to  use 
corn  cut  off  the  cob,  either  raw  or 
cooked.  Start  with  3  cups  of  corn 
kernels  for  6  servings.  Cook  the  kernels 
for  8  to  10  minutes  with  2  tablespoons 
of  chopped  onion  in  3  tablespoons 
butter  or  margarine.  Add  1  cup  of 
sweet  cream,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Heat  and  stir 
until  hot. 

If  preferred,  use  sour  cream  instead 
of  the  sweet  cream,  or  cream  cheese 
softened  with  milk.  Add  a  half  tea- 
spoon curry  powder  if  you  like. 

Cucumbers.  Cucumbers  should  be  a 
good  green  color  and  firm  over  their 
entire  length.  They  may  also  have 
some  white  or  greenish-white  color  and 
still  be  top  quality.  They  should  be 
well  shaped  and  well  developed,  but 
not  too  large  in  diameter.  Ignore  the 
many  small  lumps  on  their  surfaces; 
this  is  typical  of  good  cucumbers. 

Overgrown  cucumbers  (those  with 
large  diameters)  and  cucumbers  of  a 
dull  color,  turning  yellowish,  are  likely 
to  have  tough  flesh  and  large  hard 
seeds.  Cucumbers  with  withered  or 
shriveled  ends  may  be  somewhat  bitter. 

Food  uses  for  fresh,  raw  cucumbers 
are  numerous.  They  can  be  sliced  or 
diced  and  added  to  tossed  salads  or 
fancy  molded  salads;  cut  lengthwise 
into  sticks  for  the  relish  tray;  sliced 
and  served  with  vinegar  or  sour  cream ; 
or  scooped  out  and  filled  with  a 
favorite  salad  mixture. 

Cucumbers  are  also  delicious  cooked, 
although  this  use  is  less  common  than 


others.  Sliced  cucumbers  are  cooked 
slightly  and  served  with  thin  cream 
sauce  or  hot  vinegar,  sugar,  and  crisp 
bacon  bits.  They  are  also  used  to  make 
baked  stuffed  cucumbers. 

But  of  course  the  principal  use  for 
cucumbers  is  in  pickling,  either  at 
home  or  commercially. 

Eggplant.  Fresh  eggplant,  one  of  the 
more  delicate  vegetables,  is  of  good 
quality  when  it  is  firm,  heavy,  smooth, 
uniformly  dark  purple,  and  free  from 
scars  or  cuts. 

Poorly  colored,  soft,  shriveled,  or 
flabby  eggplants  are  usually  bitter  or 
poor  in  flavor. 

Frying  is  perhaps  the  most  well- 
known  way  in  the  United  States  to 
prepare  eggplant.  The  eggplant  is  cut 
into  ^-inch  strips,  dipped  in  batter, 
and  cooked  in  either  deep  or  shallow 
hot  fat  until  browned.  The  batter  is 
made  by  mixing  1  cup  flour  with  H 
teaspoon  salt,  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  and  1 
tablespoon  vegetable  oil,  and  beating 
until  smooth.  Drain  fried  eggplant  on 
paper  towels  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 
Serve  hot  and  pass  the  grated  Parme- 
san cheese  for  those  who  like  this  flavor 
combination. 

French-fried  eggplant  sticks  are  also 
available  in  frozen  form. 

Greens,  Cooked.  Many  species  of 
plants  are  grown  for  use  as  "greens." 
The  better  known  kinds  are  spinach, 
kale,  chard,  collards,  turnip,  beet, 
mustard  and  broccoli  leaves,  dande- 
lion, and  sorrel.  Many  others,  some  of 
them  wild,  are  also  used  as  greens. 

Good  quality  greens  are  fresh, 
young,  tender,  free  from  blemishes, 
and  have  a  healthy  green  color.  Beet 
tops  and  ruby  chard  have  a  reddish 
color. 

Avoid  leaves  with  coarse  stems, 
yellowish  color,  or  those  that  are  soft, 
wilted,  or  dried.  Look  carefully  for 
signs  of  insects,  particularly  aphids. 
They  are  sometimes  hard  to  see,  and 
even  harder  to  wash  away. 

Various  leafy  greens  are  available 
in  canned  or  frozen  form.  Among  them 
are  collards,  kale,  mustard,  turnip 
greens  (often  with  immature  turnips), 
poke  salad,  endive,  and  swiss  chard. 

185 


Spinach  is  processed  in  "whole  leaf' 
and  chopped  styles,  sometimes  with 
various  sauces  and  flavorings.  The 
highest  grade  of  these  products  is 
produced  from  young,  tender  plants. 

Fresh  greens  can  be  delicious  when 
properly  prepared.  Well-cooked  greens 
have  a  bright  color  and  sweet  flavor 
and  are  almost  crisp.  When  greens  are 
overcooked,  the  green  chlorophyll  pig- 
ment turns  to  an  olive  brown  color, 
the  texture  becomes  soft  and  mushy, 
and  the  flavor  is  strong. 

To  prepare  greens  for  cooking,  dis- 
card any  bruised,  wilted,  or  yellowed 
outer  leaves,  and  cut  off  tough  or  dried 
stem  ends.  Strip  kale  leaves  off  the 
woody  midribs. 

Wash  thoroughly,  using  plenty  of 
water  for  leafy  greens. 

Lift  greens  out  of  water  and  repeat 
washing  until  no  grit  settles  to  the 
bottom  of  the  pan. 

Spinach  and  other  tender  greens 
need  only  the  water  clinging  to  the 
leaves  after  washing  to  cook  them  in  a 
tightly  covered  pan.  Less  tender  greens 
need  more  water.  Reduce  heat  after 
steam  begins  to  escape,  and  cook  slowly 
so  that  the  water  does  not  boil  away. 
The  secret  to  success  in  cooking  greens 
is  to  cook  until  they  are  just  tender  and 
still  slightly  crisp.  Cooking  time  varies 
from  3  minutes  for  tender  spinach  to 
30  minutes  for  mustard  and  turnip 
greens.  Kale  and  chard  take  10  to  15 
minutes. 

Add  1  or  2  tablespoons  butter,  mar- 
garine, or  meat  drippings  to  greens 
before  cooking,  if  desired.  For  variety, 
add  bits  of  crumbled  bacon,  diced 
cooked  ham,  or  chopped  hard-cooked 
eggs  to  the  cooked  greens. 

Serve  greens  with  lemon  juice  orwith 
light  cream  and  horseradish.  Other 
interesting  ways  to  prepare  greens  are 
scalloped,  molded,  or  creamed;  in  a 
fondue  or  a  souffle;  with  cheese  sauce 
or  mushroom  sauce;  Dutch  style  with 
bacon,  vinegar,  and  sugar;  in  soups, 
in  omelets,  or  in  salads.  (See  "Greens, 
salad") 

Wilted  spinach,  such  as  the  old- 
fashioned  wilted  lettuce,  adds  color 
and  zesty  flavor  to  a  meal. 

186 


WILTED  SPINACH 

6  servings,  %  cup  each 

3  slices  bacon 

2  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  bacon  drippings 
%  cup  water 

Yi  cup  vinegar 

1  quart  coarsely  chopped  raw  spinach 

Cut  bacon  in  H-inch  pieces  and  fry 
until  crisp.  Drain  bacon  and  save  the 
drippings.  Blend  flour,  sugar,  and  salt 
with  the  bacon  drippings.  Stir  in  water 
and  vinegar  and  cook  until  thickened, 
stirring  constantly.  Pour  the  hot  vine- 
gar dressing  over  spinach,  add  bacon, 
and  toss  to  mix. 

Greens,  Salad.  Lettuce  is  the  most 
important  salad  plant  grown  in  the 
Nation.  Four  types  are  generally  sold : 
Iceberg,  Butterhead,  Romaine,  and 
Leaf. 

Iceberg  lettuce  is  by  far  the  major 
type.  Heads  are  large,  round,  and 
solid,  with  outer  leaves  medium-green. 
Inner  leaves  are  a  lighter  green. 

Butterhead  lettuce,  including  the 
Big  Boston  and  Bibb  varieties,  has  a 
smaller  head  than  Iceberg.  It  is  slightly 
flat  on  top  and  has  soft,  tender,  pale 
inner  leaves  that  are  oily  or  buttery 
to  the  feel. 

Romaine  (or  Cos)  lettuce  plants  are 
tall  and  cylindrical  with  crisp,  folded, 
dark-green  leaves. 

Leaf  lettuce  has  broad,  tender,  suc- 
culent, fairly  smooth  leaves  that  vary 
in  color  depending  on  variety.  Grown 
mainly  in  greenhouses  or  on  truck 
farms  for  local  sale,  leaf  lettuce  is  very 
delicate  and  usually  not  suitable  for 
long  distance  shipping. 

The  leaves  of  Iceberg  lettuce  and 
Romaine  should  be  crisp.  Other  types 
of  lettuce  have  a  softer  texture,  but 
the  leaves  should  not  be  wilted.  Look 
for  good,  bright  color — the  shade  of 
green  varies  with  variety. 

Heads  of  Iceberg  lettuce  that  are 
very  hard  and  lack  green  color  are 
overmature.  They  may  have  a  less 
attractive  flavor.  Heads  of  irregular 
shape  or  with  hard  lumps  on  the  top 


may  have  overgrown  central  stems, 
causing  excessive  waste  and  a  slightly 
bitter  flavor.  Check  the  lettuce  for  tan 
or  brown  areas  on  the  edge  of  the 
leaves.  Slight  discoloration  of  the 
outer  or  wrapper  leaves  usually  will 
not  hurt  lettuce  quality. 

Chicory  or  endive  has  narrower, 
crinkly  leaves  with  notched  edges. 
Escarole  leaves  are  much  broader  and 
less  crinkly  than  those  of  chicory. 
Chicory  plants  often  have  "blanched" 
yellowish  leaves  in  the  central  portion 
of  the  head.  Widoof  or  Belgian  endive 
is  a  compact,  cigar-shaped  plant  which 
is  creamy  white  from  blanching. 

Chinese  cabbage  is  an  elongated 
plant  resembling  celery.  Some  of  the 
varieties  develop  a  firm  stalk,  while 
others  have  an  open,  leafy  form. 

Watercress  is  a  small,  round-leaved 
plant  that  grows  naturally  (or  may  be 
cultivated)  along  the  banks  of  fresh- 
water streams  or  ponds.  Its  spicy  flavor 
makes  it  a  favorite  for  use  as  a  garnish 
or  in  mixed  green  salads. 

All  these  salad  greens  should  look 
fresh  and  crisp. 

Different  types  of  lettuce  have  dis- 
tinctive roles  to  play  in  salad  making. 
Iceberg  lettuce  is  good  served  alone 
or  in  combination  with  other  greens, 
vegetables,  or  fruits,  as  well  as  with 
meat,  poultry,  and  fish  salads.  Boston 
or  Butterhead  lettuce  is  excellent  in 
tossed  green  salads  and  as  garnishes, 
but  it  is  too  soft  to  combine  with  fruits 
and  vegetables.  The  small  leaves  of 
Bibb  lettuce  are  a  salad  by  themselves 
with  a  french  or  a  russian  dressing. 
Romaine  lettuce  retains  its  crispness 
in  tossed  salads  and  is  famous  for  its 
use  in  Caesar  Salad  made  with  a 
special  dressing  and  garlic-flavored 
croutons.  Leaf  lettuce  is  delightful  in  a 
spring  salad  bowl  combined  with 
other  greens,  carrot  curls,  and  chopped 
green  onions,  and  tossed  with  kalian 
dressing. 

The  use  of  lettuce  in  sandwiches  is 
almost  universal.  It  is  also  popular 
prepared  as  "Wilted  Lettuce,"  which 
is  lettuce  served  with  a  hot  bacon, 
vinegar,  and  sugar  dressing. 

When  salad  greens  are  brought  into 


your  kitchen,  discard  any  bruised 
leaves.  Wash  the  greens  thoroughly, 
and  dry  them  well  before  refrigerating. 

To  obtain  whole  leaves  of  Iceberg 
lettuce,  cut  or  twist  out  the  core  and 
run  water  through  it  to  loosen  the 
leaves.  Drain  well  on  paper  towels. 
For  tossed  salads,  tear  greens  into 
bite-size  pieces.  For  other  uses,  cut 
lettuce  into  wedges  or  shred  it  with  a 
sharp  knife. 

Raw  spinach  is  also  used  as  a  salad 
green. 

The  tossed  green  salad  is  by  far  the 
most  popular  salad.  It  is  easy  to  make 
and  a  timesaver.  Use  one  or  two  or 
more  kinds  of  greens  and  tear  into 
bite-size  pieces  to  make  about  2  quarts. 
In  the  salad  bowl,  finely  chop  1  garlic 
clove,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  bit 
of  dry  mustard  if  you  like;  mash  the 
seasonings  together.  Add  1  tablespoon 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice  and  ){  cup 
of  salad  oil.  Add  greens  just  before 
serving  and  toss  to  mix. 

This  basic  salad  can  be  varied  by 
adding  artichoke  hearts,  raw  cauli- 
flower, celery,  chives,  or  green  onions, 
cucumbers,  raw  mushrooms,  radishes, 
tomatoes,  or  any  cold,  cooked  vege- 
table. Fruits  like  apples,  avocados, 
grapes,  pineapple,  or  oranges  also  can 
be  added  to  the  tossed  salad;  or  you 
can  add  cut-up  cheese,  hard-cooked 
eggs,  cooked  meats,  or  seafood. 

Raw  spinach  salad  is  a  refreshing 
taste  sensation.  Shred  the  spinach,  add 
french  or  italian  dressing,  and  garnish 
with  grated  hard-cooked  eggs  or  sliced 
tomatoes. 

Mushrooms.  Cultivated  in  caves,  cel- 
lars, or  special  houses,  the  mushroom 
is  an  edible  fungus  with  a  cap  (the 
wide  portion  on  top),  gills  (the  many 
rows  of  paper-thin  tissue  underneath 
the  cap),  and  a  stem. 

Young  mushrooms  of  small  to 
medium  size  with  a  white  to  creamy- 
white  cap  surface  are  the  best  quality. 
The  caps  should  be  clean  and  tighdy 
closed  around  the  stem.  If  the  caps 
are  partly  open,  the  exposed  gills 
should  be  no  darker  than  light  tan  or 
pink. 

Avoid   mushrooms  with  pitted   or 

187 


badly  discolored  caps,  or  those  with 
wide  open  caps  and  dark,  discolored 
gills. 

Smaller  mushrooms  are  canned  in 
several  styles:  Whole  (including  the 
stems),  as  buttons  (the  top  only), 
sliced,  and  stems  and  pieces.  They  are 
sometimes  processed  in  butter  and 
broiled  before  canning.  Frozen  mush- 
rooms are  available  in  most  of  the 
same  styles. 

Wash  fresh  mushrooms  in  cold  water 
and  then  cut  off  the  tips  of  the  stems. 
It  is  not  necessary  to  peel  them.  To 
prevent  mushrooms  from  darkening 
during  cooking,  use  lemon  juice.  Slice 
by  cutting  from  the  round  side  down 
through  the  stems,  or  remove  the  stems 
and  use  the  caps,  saving  the  stems  for 
another  use. 

Lightly  brown  fresh  mushrooms  in 
butter  or  margarine  before  using  them 
in  combination  with  almost  all  foods. 

When  using  canned  mushrooms  in 
place  of  fresh,  the  contents  of  three 
4-ounce  cans  equals  1  pound  fresh 
mushrooms  cooked.  Browning  canned 
mushrooms  in  butter  or  margarine 
before  you  add  them  to  other  foods 
makes  their  flavor  more  distinctive. 
Drain  the  liquid  from  caps,  slices,  or 
pieces  of  canned  mushrooms.  Then 
lightly  brown  the  mushrooms  in  a 
little  butter  or  margarine  the  same  as 
you  would  fresh  mushrooms. 

CHINESE-STYLE  MUSHROOMS 

6  servings,  y3  cup  each 

1  pound  fresh  mushrooms 

2  tablespoons  vegetable  oil 
2  tablespoons  soy  sauce 

2  tablespoons  water 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

Wash  mushrooms  and  cut  vertically 
into  thin  slices.  Cook  mushrooms  in 
hot  oil  in  frying  pan  for  3  minutes, 
stirring  as  needed. 

Combine  other  ingredients  and  stir 
into  mushrooms.  Cook  for  2  minutes 
more  until  the  juice  is  translucent. 

Okra.  Okra  is  a  seed  pod  harvested 
in  the  immature  stage  well  before  the 

188 


pods  or  seeds  have  begun  to  harden. 

Small  whole  okra  pods  and  pods  cut 
into  rings  are  available  both  canned 
and  frozen.  Canned  fermented  okra  is 
partially  fermented  in  a  salt  brine  and 
has  an  acid,  krautlike  flavor.  Usually 
firm,  with  a  bright  green  color,  canned 
fermented  okra  may  be  served  as  a 
vegetable,  but  is  usually  used  in  soups 
or  other  foods.  Small  okra  pods, 
pickled  at  home  or  commercially,  are 
a  favorite  in  the  South. 

The  pods  of  fresh,  okra  should  be 
tender,  bright  green,  free  from  blem- 
ishes, and  less  than  4^  inches  long. 
The  tips  should  bend  with  slight  pres- 
sure. Pods  with  a  pale,  faded  color,  a 
hard  body,  or  tips  that  resist  bending 
are  tough  and  fibrous. 

Scrub  fresh  okra  pods  well  before 
cooking.  Cut  off  stem  end,  leave  small 
pods  whole,  and  cut  large  pods  in 
H-inch  slices.  Add  ){  cup  salted  water 
to  \)i  pounds  okra  for  6  servings,  and 
cook  until  barely  tender,  10  to  15 
minutes.  It  may  also  be  steamed  until 
just  tender.  (When  overcooked,  okra 
may  develop  a  gummy  consistency.) 
Serve  with  melted  butter  or  margarine 
or  hollandaise  sauce. 

For  french-fried  okra,  dip  pods  in 
beaten  egg  and  fine  bread  crumbs,  or 
in  cornmeal,  then  fry  in  deep  fat  or 
shallow  fat. 

Chicken  Gumbo  is  perhaps  the  most 
famous  use  for  okra.  To  diced  chicken 
meat  and  broth  are  added  okra  cut  in 
^-inch  pieces,  and  tomatoes,  celery, 
green  pepper,  onion,  and  parsley,  all 
cut  finely.  Simmer  until  vegetables  are 
tender.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  cooked  corn  or  cooked 
rice,  if  you  wish.  Proportions  of  in- 
gredients and  seasoning  can  be  varied 
to  suit  the  taste. 

A  favorite  in  the  South  is  Creole 
Okra,  made  by  combining  cooked 
okra  and  a  spicy  Creole  sauce  made 
with  tomatoes,  chopped  onion,  green 
pepper,  and  seasonings. 

Onions,  Mature.  The  many  varieties  of 
onions  grown  for  fresh  market  fall  into 
three  general  classes:  Globe,  Granex- 
Grano,  and  Spanish.  All  three  classes 
may  be  yellow,  white,  red,  or  brown, 


but  commercial  production  mainly 
consists  of  yellow-skinned  varieties. 

Globe  onions  are  the  most  common 
class,  and  are  considered  primarily 
cooking  onions.  They  are  predomi- 
nandy  round  to  oval,  rather  strong 
flavored,  and  small  to  medium  in  size. 

Granex-Grano  are  medium-  to  large- 
size  onions.  Mild  in  flavor,  they  are 
ideal  for  serving  raw  or  cooked.  Their 
shape  tends  to  be  top-shaped  or  flat- 
tened. Bermuda  onions  fall  into  this 
class. 

Spanish  onions  resemble  the  globes 
in  shape,  but  are  generally  much 
larger.  Often  called  "sweet  Spanish," 
they  are  mild  flavored  and  ideal  for 
salads  or  slicing. 

Good-quality  onions  should  be  dry, 
hard  or  firm,  and  have  small  necks. 
They  should  be  covered  with  a  thin, 
papery  outer  skin  and  be  reasonably 
free  from  such  blemishes  as  green  sun- 
burn spots  or  sunken,  leatherlike  areas. 

Avoid  onions  with  a  thick  woody 
center  in  the  neck  or  which  have  fresh 
sprouts. 

Onions  are  also  available  frozen  and 
canned  whole  and  as  french-fried 
onion  rings.  Canned  whole  onions  are 
usually  packed  in  a  salt  brine.  Top- 
grade  canned  whole  onions  are  fairly 
uniform  in  size  and  shape. 

Onions  can  be  baked,  boiled,  fried 
in  butter  or  margarine,  french-fried 
in  rings,  or  made  into  delicious  french 
onion  soup. 

For  Baked  Onions,  cut  peeled  onions 
in  half  crosswise.  Use  2  pounds  of 
medium-size  onions  for  6  servings.  Add 
just  enough  water  to  cover  bottom  of  a 
baking  pan.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  cover  pan.  Bake  for  30 
minutes.  Top  with  1  cup  of  buttered 
bread  cubes  and  bake  uncovered  15 
to  20  minutes  longer,  or  until  cubes 
are  brown  and  onions  are  tender. 

Whole  onions  can  be  cooked  in 
boiling  salted  water  for  15  to  30 
minutes,  depending  upon  size.  Add  a 
medium  white  sauce  to  cooked  onions 
to  make  creamed  onions.  Top  with 
buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  for 
25  minutes  for  scalloped  onions. 

To  make  french-fried  onions,  peel 


Spanish,  Bermuda,  or  mild  white 
onions  and  cut  into  Jrinch  slices. 
Separate  into  rings,  dip  in  evaporated 
milk  or  a  mixture  of  2  cups  milk  and 
3  eggs,  then  into  flour,  coating  each 
ring  well.  Fry  in  hot  deep  fat  at  370° 
to  385°  F.  Drain  on  paper  towels  and 
sprinkle  with  salt. 

Onions,  Green;  Shallots;  and  Leeks. 
Green  onions,  shallots,  and  leeks  are 
sometimes  called  "scallions." 

Green  onions  are  ordinary  onions 
harvested  very  young.  They  have  very 
litde  or  no  bulb  formation  and  their 
tops  are  tubular.  Shallots  are  similar 
to  green  onions,  but  grow  in  clusters 
and  have  practically  no  swelling  at  the 
base.  Leeks  are  larger  than  shallots, 
have  slight  bulb  formation  and  broad, 
flat,  dark-green  tops. 

These  salad  vegetables  should  have 
fresh,  crisp,  green  tops  and  firm,  well- 
blanched  (white)  portions  extending  2 
or  3  inches  up  from  the  root  end. 

Yellowing,  wilted,  discolored,  or  de- 
cayed tops  indicate  the  bulb  is  flabby, 
tough,  or  fibrous.  Bruised  tops  will  not 
affect  eating  quality  of  the  bulb. 

Parsley.  Parsley  can  be  a  valuable 
addition  to  your  diet,  used  as  a  sea- 
soning in  many  foods  as  well  as  a 
decorative  garnish.  Both  curled-leaf 
and  flat-leaf  parsley  are  produced. 

Look  for  fresh,  crisp,  bright-green 
leaves.  Slighdy  wilted  leaves  can  be 
freshened  by  trimming  off  the  ends  of 
the  stems  and  placing  them  in  cold 
water.  Yellowed  or  badly  wilted  leaves 
are  signs  of  aging. 

Parsnips.  Parsnips  of  good  eating 
quality  are  small-  to  medium-size,  well 
formed,  smooth,  firm,  and  free  from 
serious  blemishes. 

Large  coarse  parsnips  are  apt  to 
have  a  tough  or  woody  center,  and 
badly  wilted  and  flabby  parsnips  are 
usually  pithy  or  fibrous. 

For  cooking,  leave  parsnips  whole 
or  pare  and  cut  into  lengthwise  strips, 
slices,  or  cubes.  Allow  \}i  pounds  for 
six  ^-cup  servings.  Scrub  parsnips  and 
cook  whole  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender.  Plunge  into  cold  water 
and  slip  off  skins.  Cook  pieces  in  %  cup 
boiling  salted  water  for  8  to  15  minutes. 

189 


Canned  peas  and  mushrooms  in  casserole  topped  with  white  sauce,  bread  cubes,  and  paprika. 


Parsnips  also  are  good  baked  in  a 
covered  casserole  at  350°  F.  for  40  to 
45  minutes.  Serve  with  melted  butter, 
margarine,  or  cream  and  seasonings  to 
taste.  Or  mash  the  parsnips  and  serve 
with  a  litde  grated  orange  rind. 

Glazed  Parsnips  are  the  choice  for 
some  menu  combinations.  Cut  cooked 
parsnips  into  strips  or  large  pieces  and 
heat  them  in  a  sirup  made  by  blending 
Yt  cup  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  but- 
ter or  margarine,  and  1  tablespoon  of 
water.  Cook  over  low  heat  until  sirup 
is  very  thick,  and  vegetables  are  well 
coated. 

Peas,  Green.  Only  a  small  part  of  the 
commercial  production  of  green  peas 
is  shipped  to  fresh  market.  The  bulk 
of  the  crop  is  canned  or  frozen. 

Fresh  pea  pods  should  be  bright 
green,  slighdy  velvety  to  the  touch, 
and  well  filled.  Pods  which  are  swollen, 
light  in  color,  or  flecked  with  gray  may 

190 


contain  tough,  poorly  flavored  peas. 
Pods  containing  very  immature  peas 
are  usually  flat,  dark  green  in  color, 
and  may  have  a  wilted  appearance. 

Peas,  both  canned  and  frozen,  are 
among  the  most  popular  processed 
vegetables.  Two  types  of  peas  are  used 
for  canning — the  smooth-skinned  early 
or  early  June  type  and  the  dimple- 
skinned  or  sweet  type.  Most  peas  for 
freezing  are  the  sweet  type,  especially 
developed  for  deep-green  color. 

U.S.  Grade  A  or  Fancy  canned  peas 
are  tender  and  flavorful,  and  their 
color  is  the  typical  soft  pea-green.  The 
juice  is  slightly  green  and  waterlike. 
Off-color  peas  are  rarely  found  in  a 
can  at  this  grade. 

U.S.  Grade  B  or  Extra  Standard 
canned  peas  may  be  slightly  mealy, 
but  have  a  very  good  flavor.  Their 
color  may  be  variable  -and  a  few  off- 
color  peas  or  broken  peas  may  be  in  a 


can.  The  liquid  may  be  a  slightly 
cloudy,  light  green. 

U.S.  Grade  C  or  Standard  canned 
peas  tend  to  be  slighdy  mealy,  and  do 
not  taste  as  sweet  as  Grades  A  and  B. 
They  are  a  dull  pea-green  and  some 
blond  or  cream-colored  or  broken  peas 
may  be  in  a  can.  The  liquid  may  be 
very  cloudy  with  a  starchy  flavor. 

Like  fresh  corn,  fresh  peas  should  be 
used  soon  because  they  begin  to  lose 
tenderness  and  sweetness  shordy  after 
they  are  picked  from  the  vine. 

Cooked  peas  may  be  served  with 
butter  or  margarine,  in  a  cream  sauce, 
in  vegetable  salads,  in  soups  and  stews, 
and  in  combination  with  many  other 
foods.  Several  pleasing  combinations 
follow : 

•  Creamed  peas  and  new  potatoes  with 
chopped  chives  or  chopped  spring 
onions. 

•  Peas  and  crisp-cooked  celery  with 
chopped  canned  pimiento  for  a  touch 
of  color,  sprinkled  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  savory  seasoning. 

•  Peas  and  corn  in  light  cream  topped 
with  lightiy  browned  ham  slivers. 

•  Curried  peas  and  onions  using  fresh 
or  frozen  peas  and  small,  white  cooked 
onions. 

•  Buttered  peas  cooked  with  thinly 
sliced  mushrooms  and  a  thinly  sliced 
onion. 

•  Old-fashioned  peas  and  carrots, 
dressed  up  with  chives  and  cream 
cheese  thinned  with  milk  to  desired 
consistency. 

For  a  fresh  springtime  flavor,  add 
freshly  chopped  or  dried  mint,  grated 
lemon  peel,  and  butter  or  margarine 
to  the  cooked  green  peas.  Marjoram 
and  oregano  are  two  other  seasonings 
that  lend  unusual  flavors  to  peas  alone 
or  paired  with  other  vegetables. 

Peppers.  Most  peppers  you  find  in 
food  stores  are  the  sweet  green  type. 

Peppers  should  be  medium  to  dark 
green,  relatively  heavy  for  their  size, 
and  have  a  glossy  sheen  and  crisp,  firm 
walls  or  sides. 

Peppers  with  very  thin  walls  (indi- 
cated by  light  weight  and  flimsiness) 


and  peppers  that  are  wilted  or  flabby 
should  be  avoided,  as  well  as  those  that 
are  cut  or  punctured. 

Frozen  peppers  are  convenient  to 
use  for  stuffing  or  as  garnish.  Both 
green  and  red  peppers  (fully  matured 
green  peppers)  are  frozen  whole,  with 
or  without  stems,  as  well  as  halved, 
sliced,  and  diced.  Red  and  green 
peppers  are  occasionally  available  in 
cans,  too. 

Sweet  peppers  are  good  either  raw 
or  cooked.  For  some  uses,  as  in  anti- 
pasto,  they  need  to  be  peeled.  This  is 
easy  to  do  if  the  peppers  are  first 
roasted  in  a  very  hot  oven  (450°  F.) 
for  3  to  4  minutes,  or  over  a  hot  flame 
until  the  skin  is  blistered  and  dark. 
Cool  the  peppers  in  cold  water  and 
rub  off  the  blackened  skin. 

Brief  parboiling  for  about  5  minutes 
in  boiling  salted  water  is  desirable  if 
peppers  are  to  be  stuffed.  First  cut  off 
the  tops  and  remove  the  seeds  and  ribs. 
After  heating,  drain  well  and  fill  with 
some  well-seasoned  mixture  of  cooked 
meat  and  rice  or  mashed  potatoes, 
rice  and  cheese,  or  even  corned  beef 
hash.  Pour  1  cup  water  or  tomato 
sauce  around  peppers.  Bake  at  375°  F. 
for  30  minutes  if  stuffing  is  precooked, 
an  hour  if  not. 

Sweet  peppers  are  delicious,  too, 
cut  in  strips,  cooked  briefly  in  garlic- 
flavored  vegetable  oil,  and  seasoned 
to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 

To  make  a  popular  Italian  Anti- 
pasto,  cut  peeled  peppers  into  even 
strips  and  arrange  them  on  a  plate. 
Top  each  strip  with  1  or  2  anchovy 
fillets,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper,  olive 
oil,  and  capers. 

Stuffed  green  peppers  are  delightful 
for  salads.  Try  filling  the  crisp  green 
peppers  with  a  colorful  mixture  of 
lighdy  cooked  and  marinated  vege- 
tables— carrot  cubes,  snap  beans,  and 
cauliflower  pieces.  Any  of  your  favor- 
ite salad  mixtures  is  made  more 
glamorous  when  it  is  served  in  a  pep- 
per shell. 

Potatoes.  In  general,  potatoes  can  be 
classed  as  long  or  round  and  white, 
red,  or  russet.  It  would  also  be  desir- 
able to  classify  potatoes  for  use,  as 

191 


boiling,  baking,  or  frying.  Unfor- 
tunately, this  is  not  possible  because 
of  the  wide  range"  of  growing  and 
storage  conditions  as  well  as  personal 
preferences. 

New  potatoes  are  freshly  harvested 
and  not  fully  mature.  They  often  have 
skinned  areas.  Late  crop  potatoes  are 
harvested  at  a  more  mature  stage  and 
put  into  storage  for  winter  and  spring 
shipment.  They  are  generally  con- 
sidered more  suitable  for  baking  than 
new  potatoes. 

Look  for  reasonably  smooth,  well- 
shaped,  firm  potatoes  that  are  free 
from  blemishes.  In  new  potatoes,  some 
amount  of  skinned  surface  is  normal, 
but  large  skinned  and  discolored  areas 
are  undesirable. 

Avoid  potatoes  with  gouges  or 
bruises  (they'll  mean  waste  in  peeling), 
those  with  a  green  color,  or  those  that 
are  sprouted  or  shriveled. 

Processed  white  potatoes  are  avail- 
able in  many  forms:  Canned,  small 
whole  potatoes  in  salt  brine;  french- 
fried  shoe  strings  vacuum-packed,  and 
ready  to  eat;  frozen  french-fried  in 
many  sizes  and  shapes;  frozen  deep- 
fried  small,  whole  potatoes;  sliced  or 
diced  products;  and  patties  or  puffs 
made  from  mashed  potatoes;  and  the 
frozen,  unfried  products — ready-to- 
cook  patties,  or  whole,  sliced,  diced, 
or  shredded  potatoes. 

Dehydrated  potatoes  are  also  avail- 
able in  many  attractive  forms.  Among 
the  most  popular  for  home  use  are 
flakes  or  granules  to  make  mashed 
potatoes. 

The  ways  to  prepare  potatoes  are 
endless.  They  may  be  used  frequently 
in  meals  because  of  their  bland  flavor 
and  of  the  variety  of  ways  to  serve 
them — roasted,  baked,  boiled,  mashed, 
fried,  creamed,  browned,  french-fried, 
hash  browned,  in  salads,  stews,  and 
soups. 

The  baked  potato  is  almost  an  insti- 
tution in  America  and  other  countries 
as  well.  Potatoes  can  be  baked  either 
at  350°  F.  (along  with  other  foods)  for 
1  hour  10  minutes  or  in  a  very  hot 
oven  (450°  F.)  for  40  minutes.  When 
the  potatoes  feel  soft  and  are  easily 

192 


pierced  with  a  fork,  they  are  done. 
Cut  a  cross  into  top  of  each  potato  and 
press  the  sides  of  the  potato  to  open  it 
and  let  the  steam  out. 

Butter  and  dairy  sour  cream  are 
well-liked  accompaniments.  Other  in- 
teresting garnitures  are  chopped  green 
onions  and  chives,  minced  parsley, 
caraway  seeds,  chopped  dill,  minced 
red  peppers,  sliced  stuffed  olives, 
toasted  sesame  seeds,  or  crumbled 
fried  bacon  or  salt  pork. 

Potato  salad,  one  more  American 
favorite,  can  be  varied  in  dozens  of 
ways  by  adding  ingredients  such  as 
diced  cheese  or  diced  ham  or  other 
cooked  meat.  In  Finland,  they  add 
diced  carrots,  diced  beets,  and  salted 
herring.  In  Sweden,  additional  in- 
gredients may  include  chopped  apple 
and  diced  cucumbers,  with  sliced  egg 
for  decoration. 

Radishes.  Good  quality  radishes  are 
medium  sized  (%  to  1  inch  in  diame- 
ter), with  good  red  color,  and  they 
are  plump,  round,  firm,  and  crisp. 

Very  large  or  spongy  radishes  are 
likely  to  have  pithy  centers.  Dark,  dis- 
colored spots  may  indicate  decay  or 
aging.  Yellow  or  decayed  tops  of 
bunched  radishes  are  signs  of  overage, 
but  don't  always  mean  the  radishes 
are  of  poor  quality. 

Wash  radishes  well  and  cut  them  in 
attractive  ways  to  use  on  the  relish 
plate  or  to  garnish  salads. 

Squash.  The  many  varieties  of  squash 
can  be  divided  into  two  general 
classes:  Summer  and  winter. 

Summer  squash  is  harvested  while 
still  immature,  at  a  stage  when  the 
entire  squash  is  tender  and  edible.  The 
yellow  crookneck,  the  large  yellow 
straightneck,  the  scalloped  greenish- 
white  or  yellow  patty  pan,  the  slender 
green  zucchini,  and  Italian  marrow 
are  all  summer  types. 

Winter  squash  is  marketed  only 
when  fully  matured,  when  the  rind 
has  become  hard  and  tough.  Butter- 
nut, buttercup,  banana,  green  and 
blue  hubbard,  the  small  corrugated 
acorn,  and  green  and  gold  delicious 
are  among  the  winter  types. 

Summer  squash  should  be  firm,  well 


formed,  and  have  a  glossy,  fresh  ap- 
pearance. Summer  squash  with  a  dull 
appearance  and  a  hard,  tough  rind  is 
stale  or  overmature.  Such  squash  will 
usually  have  enlarged  seeds  and  dry, 
stringy  flesh.  Winter  squash  should  be 
heavy  for  its  size  (this  means  it  has  a 
thick  wall  and  more  edible  flesh)  and 
have  a  hard  rind.  Slight  variations  in 
rind  color  will  not  affect  flavor.  Win- 
ter squash  with  a  tender  rind  is  im- 
mature and  has  poor  eating  quality. 

Canned  and  frozen  summer  squash 
is  made  from  small  succulent  squashes 
usually  cut  crossways.  Several  varieties 
are  available,  including  the  flavorful 
zucchini. 

Canned  and  frozen  winter  squashes, 
very  similar  to  pumpkin,  are  usually 
cooked  and  ready  for  use  ^  as  a  vege- 
table or  in  a  pie  filling. 

Fresh  summer  squashes  should  be 
scrubbed  clean,  but  do  not  need  to  be 
pared.  They  may  be  left  whole  or  cut 
into  slices  or  cubes.  They  are  best 
cooked  in  a  very  small  amount  of  water 
(about }{  cup  for  6  servings)  in  a  cov- 
ered saucepan  for  8  to  15  minutes. 

For  flavoring,  during  cooking  add 
finely  chopped  onion  or  chives,  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  or  margarine,  or  a 
bouillon  cube.  A  sprinkle  of  sugar  gives 
summer  squash  a  fresher  taste.  Cook 
over  low  heat  until  squash  is  tender, 
then  uncover  and  boil  rapidly  for  a 
few  minutes  to  evaporate  excess  liquid. 
Be  careful  not  to  overcook.  Summer 
squash  will  have  better  acceptance 
when  it  is  slightly  crisp  and  holds  its 
shape. 

For  baking,  whole,  young  zucchini 
squash  are  a  good  choice.  When  almost 
cooked,  slit  lengthwise  and  add  strips 
of  cheese.  Bake  until  cheese  is  melted. 

Small,  hard-type  squashes  are  often 
cut  in  half  and  baked,  and  served  in 
the  shell.  Larger  squashes  are  cut  into 
individual  servings.  Seeds  and  stringy 
portions  should  be  removed  before 
cooking.  Add  butter  or  margarine, 
brown  sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper,  as 
desired,  and  bake  it  in  a  hot  oven 
(400°  F.)  for  30  to  60  minutes,  or  until 
tender.  Covering  the  squash  with  foil 
for  the  first  half  of  the  baking  period 


allows  it  to  steam  and  shortens  the 
baking  time.  For  unexpected  interest, 
sprinkle  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg 
on  squash  before  baking,  or  mix  %  cup 
of  orange  juice  frozen  concentrate, 
}i  cup  honey,  and  1  teaspoon  salt; 
put  some  of  the  mixture  in  each  squash 
cavity. 

Sweetpotatoes.  Two  general  types  of 
sweetpotatoes  are  grown  commercially. 

One  type,  sometimes  called  "Yams" 
or  "Porto  Ricans,"  has  a  soft,  moist 
texture  when  cooked  and  very  sweet, 
orange  to  orange-red  flesh.  Depending 
on  variety,  the  skin  may  be  orange, 
pale  rose,  or  copper-red. 

The  second  type,  when  cooked,  is 
firm,  somewhat  dry  and  mealy,  and 
has  pale  orange  to  light  yellow  flesh. 
The  skin  is  usually  a  light  yellow  to 
fawn  colored.  The  popularity  and 
production  of  this  type  has  dwindled 
rapidly. 

Processed  sweetpotatoes  come  in 
diverse  forms,  from  only  partially 
cooked  to  almost  ready  to  eat.  Canned 
sweetpotatoes  may  be  vacuum-packed, 
without  any  liquid,  in  a  sirup,  or 
solid  pack  (solid  pack  is  tightly  packed 
with  little  liquid).  They  are  canned 
whole,  mashed,  or  as  pieces.  Frozen 
sweetpotatoes  are  available  whole  or 
halved,  peeled  or  unpeeled,  baked, 
stuffed  in  a  shell,  sliced,  french  cut, 
diced,  mashed,  and  sometimes  formed 
into  cakes. 

Dehydrated  sweetpotatoes  need  only 
hot  water  added  to  produce  a  mashed 
sweetpotato  that  can  be  served  with 
butter  or  used  in  recipes  calling  for 
mashed  sweetpotatoes. 

Fresh  sweetpotatoes  should  be  well- 
shaped  and  firm,  with  smooth,  bright, 
uniformly  colored  skins. 

Sweetpotatoes  can  be  boiled,  baked, 
browned,  fried,  or  candied,  or  used 
for  making  pies,  custard,  cookies,  and 
cakes. 

For  best  flavor  and  nutritive  value, 
always  cook  sweetpotatoes  whole  in 
their  jackets — it  takes  35  to  55  minutes 
in  boiling  water  and  about  35  to  60 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven  (425°  F.).  The 
moist  type  cooks  in  less  time  than  the 
mealy  type. 

193 


Delicious  Sweetpotato  Puff  can  be 
prepared  from  either  fresh,  canned,  or 
dehydrated  sweetpotatoes. 

SWEETPOTATO  PUFF 

6  servings,  %  cup  each 

2  cups  mashed  sweetpotatoes 
%cup  hot  milk 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 
%  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  allspice 

1  tablespoon  grated  orange  rind 

2  eggs 

To  the  sweetpotatoes  add  the  milk, 
fat,  salt,  allspice,  and  orange  rind. 
Mix  well.  Separate  eggs.  Beat  the  egg 
yolks  and  add  to  sweetpotato  mixture. 
Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  and  fold  the 
potato  mixture  into  the  whites.  Place 
in  a  baking  dish  and  bake  at  350°  F. 
for  45  minutes. 

Tomatoes.  The  tomato  is  a  colorful 
and  a  nutritious  asset  to  any  meal, 
served  in  soups  or  salads,  vegetable 
dishes,  sauces,  spicy  relishes,  and  pre- 
serves for  breakfast,  lunch,  or  dinner. 

Best  flavor  usually  comes  from 
"home-grown"  tomatoes  produced  on 
nearby  farms  because  these  tomatoes 
are  generally  allowed  to  fully  ripen 
on  the  vine.  Many  areas,  however, 
now  ship  tomatoes  which  are  picked 
after  the  color  has  begun  to  change 
from  green  to  pink.  These  have  flavor 
almost  as  satisfying  as  "home-grown" 
tomatoes. 

Canned  tomatoes  are  usually  peeled 
and  packed  in  their  own  juice  but 
they  may  have  some  added  tomato 
pulp  or  semisolid  paste.  The  higher 
grades  have  a  better  color,  usually 
more  whole  than  broken  pieces,  and 
are  free  from  peel,  core,  and  other 
defects.  U.S.  Grade  A  Whole  is  a 
special  grade,  consisting  principally 
of  whole  tomatoes. 

Many  canned  tomato  specialties, 
different  from  those  you  may  usually 
buy,  are  becoming  available.  They 
include  pear-  or  plum-shaped  toma- 
toes, slices,  dices,  and  other  forms 
which  are  firm  and  have  litde  juice. 
Many  of  these  may  be  used  in  salads. 

194 


Fresh  tomatoes  should  be  well 
formed,  smooth,  plump,  well  ripened, 
and  reasonably  free  from  blemishes. 
For  fully  ripe  fruit,  look  for  an  overall 
rich  red  color  and  a  slight  softness. 
Softness  can  be  detected  with  gende 
handling.  For  tomatoes  less  than  fully 
ripe,  look  for  firm  texture  and  color 
ranging  from  pink  to  light  red.  Green 
tomatoes  should  be  kept  at  room  tem- 
perature away  from  direct  sunlight  to 
continue  ripening. 

Avoid  overripe  and  bruised  toma- 
toes (they  are  both  soft  and  watery), 
tomatoes  with  distincdy  yellow  areas 
around  the  shoulder,  those  with  deep 
growth  cracks. 

When  fresh  tomatoes  are  plentiful, 
serve  them  sliced,  stuffed,  in  salads, 
or  baked  whole.  Cut  fresh  tomatoes  in 
half,  and  broil  or  bake  them.  To  perk 
up  the  flavor,  top  with  grated  cheese 
or  buttered  crumbs,  salt,  and  paprika. 
Fresh  or  canned  tomatoes  are  fine  in 
combination  with  almost  any  other 
vegetable. 

Green  tomatoes  are  used  for  frying, 
pickling,  and  combining  with  other 
foods. 

Either  green  or  ripe  tomatoes  cut  in 
K-inch  slices  can  be  fried  in  a  small 
amount  of  hot  fat.  Dip  the  slices  into 
flour,  salt,  and  pepper  or  in  fine,  dry 
breadcrumbs  before  frying. 

For  a  luncheon  or  dinner,  Baked 
Stuffed  Whole  Tomatoes  are  a  real 
treat.  Stuff  them  with  cheddar  cheese, 
chips  of  crisp  bacon,  and  some  of  the 
tomato  pulp  scooped  from  the  center. 
Top  with  more  bacon  and  cheese  and 
pop  into  the  broiler  until  browned 
slighdy.  Another  popular  stuffing  for 
tomatoes,  Savory  Crumb  Stuffing,  is 
made  from  a  quart  of  soft  bread- 
crumbs, 1  teaspoon  of  poultry  season- 
ing, and  salt  to  taste.  Cook  1  chopped 
onion  and  %  cup  chopped  celery  in  % 
cup  butter  for  about  5  minutes,  and 
mix  with  breadcrumbs  and  tomato 
centers.  Stuff  tomatoes  and  bake  at 
375°  F.  for  about  15  minutes. 

Turnips,  Rutabagas.  The  most  popu- 
lar variety  of  turnips  has  white  flesh 
and  a  purplish  tinting  of  the  upper 
surface. 


Rutabagas  are  distinctively  yellow- 
fleshed,  large-sized  relatives  of  turnips. 
Rutabagas  are  usually  coated  with  a 
thin  layer  of  paraffin  to  prevent  shriv- 
eling and  loss  of  moisture.  The  paraffin 
is  easily  removed  by  peeling  before 
cooking. 

Good  quality  turnips  are  small  or 
medium  sized,  smooth,  fairly  round, 
and  firm.  If  sold  in  bunches,  the  tops 
should  be  fresh  and  green.  Rutabagas 
should  be  heavy  in  relation  to  their 
size,  smooth,  round  to  moderately 
elongated,  and  firm.  Both  should  have 
only  a  few  leaf  scars  at  the  crown  and 
very  few  fibrous  roots  at  the  base. 

Avoid  turnips  or  rutabagas  that  are 
soft  or  shriveled,  cut  or  punctured. 
Those  that  are  light  in  weight  for  their 
size  are  likely  to  be  tough,  woody, 
pithy,  and  strong  flavored. 

Rutabagas  and  turnips  are  cooked 
in  the  same  way — peeled  and  cooked 
in  large  pieces  if  they  are  to  be  mashed, 
or  cut  into  small  cubes  if  they  are  to 
be  buttered  or  creamed.  Turnips  may 
be  cooked  whole  in  20  to  30  minutes; 
cut-up  turnips  take  only  half  as  long  to 
cook. 

Turnips  and  rutabagas  are  excellent 
additions  to  stews  and  soups,  enhanc- 
ing the  flavor  of  the  other  ingredients, 
as  well  as  their  own. 

A  vegetable  medley  of  cooked  diced 
turnips,  diced  carrots,  and  green  peas 
makes  a  pretty  color  and  interesting 
flavor  combination,  seasoned  with  salt 


and  pepper,  and  butter  or  margarine. 

For  a  special  occasion,  creamed 
turnips  can  be  topped  with  shredded 
cheddar  cheese  and  baked  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  just  long  enough  to  melt  the 
cheese.  Cooked  turnip  sticks  sprinkled 
with  lemon  juice,  finely  chopped 
onion,  and  parsley  is  another  interest- 
ing way  to  vary  this  vegetable. 

Raw  turnips,  with  their  nippy  flavor, 
are  good  additions  to  the  relish  tray  or 
the  salad  bowl. 

For  further  reading: 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Fam- 
ily Fare:  Food  Management  and  Recipes.  Home 
and  Garden  Bulletin  1,  Washington,  D.C. 
20250,  1966. 

Home  Canning  of  Fruits  and  Vege- 
tables. Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  8,  Wash- 
ington, D.C.  20250,  1965. 

Home  Care  of  Purchased  Frozen  Foods. 

Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  69,  Washington, 
D.C.  20250,  1967. 

Home  Freezing  of  Fruits  and  Vege- 
tables. Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  10, 
Washington,  D.C.  20250,  1967. 

How  to  Buy  Fresh  Vegetables.  Home 

and  Garden  Bulletin  143,  Washington,  D.C. 
20250,  1967. 

Shopper's    Guide  for    Canned    Peas. 

Program  Aid  728,  Washington,  D.C.  20250, 
1966. 

Storing  Perishable  Foods  in  the  Home. 

Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  78,  Washington, 
D.C.  20250,  1967. 

Storing     Vegetables     and     Fruits     in 

Basements,  Cellars,  Outbuildings,  and  Pits.  Home 
and  Garden  Bulletin  119,  Washington,  D.C. 
20250,  1966. 

Vegetables  in  Family  Meals.  Home 

and  Garden  Bulletin  105,  Washington,  D.C. 
20250,  1968. 


This  vegetable  platter  combines  carrots,  beets,  green  snap  beans,  and  swiss  chard. 


Bernice  K.  McGeary 
Malcolm  E.  Smith 


Nuts,  a  Shell 
Game  That 
Pays  Off  in 
Good  Eating 


Nuts  in  a  bowl  are  attractive  and 
taste  tempting  any  time  of  the  year 
and  are  an  American  tradition  during 
the  Thanksgiving  and  Christmas  holi- 
days. There  is  a  certain  satisfaction  in 
obeying  that  impulse  to  crack  and  eat 
some  of  them. 

Nuts  play  an  important  role  in  our 
diet.  They  rank  high  for  good  eating 
and  nutrition. 

The  many  kinds  of  nuts,  broadly 
speaking,  are  marketed  in  just  a  few 
forms:  In  the  shell  or  as  shelled  ker- 
nels; and  raw  or  roasted. 

Mixed  kinds,  in  demand  both  for 
appearance  and  variety  of  flavor,  are 
perhaps  the  most  popular  in-shell  nuts. 
They  are  usually  made  up  of  almonds, 
brazil  nuts,  filberts,  pecans,  and  wal- 
nuts. But  each  kind  of  these  in-shell 
nuts  can  also  be  found  singly  at  many 
food  markets  in  late  fall  and  early 
winter.  Other  kinds  of  nuts  commonly 
offered  for  sale  in  the  shell  are  coco- 
nuts, peanuts,  and  pistachios,  and 
sometimes  pine  nuts — the  last  three 
generally  roasted. 

In-shell  peanuts  are  available  to 
most  consumers  in  the  roasted  form 
known  as  "ball-park  peanuts."  Actu- 

196 


ally,  peanuts  belong  to  the  pea  and 
bean  family,  but  they  are  classified 
with  nuts  because  they  are  similar  in 
use  and  food  value.  A  major  difference 
is  that  around  half  of  the  peanuts 
produced  go  into  peanut  butter. 

Raw  nut  meats  most  likely  to  be  on 
the  grocer's  shelf  are  walnuts,  pecans, 
almonds,  and  black  walnuts.  They  are 
offered  in  a  variety  of  packages, 
qualities,  and  sizes  of  pieces  at  a  wide 
range  of  prices.  Raw  shelled  peanuts, 
brazils,  filberts,  and  cashews  appear  in 
relatively  few  stores  to  supply  a  limited 
demand. 

A  price  comparison  between  in-shell 
and  shelled  nuts  may  be  of  interest  to 
you  as  a  buyer.  For  a  method  of  ap- 
proach, say  that  a  pound  of  English 
walnuts  in  the  shell  costs  60  cents,  and 
1  pound  contains  approximately  7 
ounces  of  kernels.  This  cost,  compared 
with  the  retail  price  of  7  ounces  of 
nutmeats,  tells  the  story.  One  pound 
of  other  kinds  of  in-shell  nuts  will 
yield  these  approximate  ounces  of 
nutmeats:  Almonds,  6}£;  brazils,  8; 
filberts,  7;  pecans,  6%;  and  black 
walnuts,  3)i. 

Roasted,  mixed  salted  nuts  usually 
include  three  or  more  kinds.  Peanuts, 
cashews,  brazils,  almonds,  and  filberts 
are  used  most.  Percentage  of  each  in  a 
mix  varies  widely  among  commercial 
packers,  and  is  reflected  in  prices. 
Peanuts  are  often  the  least  expensive 
nuts,  and  this  creates  an  incentive  to 
use  more  of  them  in  the  mix.  In  view 
of  this  fact,  some  packers  label  their 
packages  either  "with  peanuts"  or 
"without  peanuts." 

Some  nuts  on  the  market  are  dry 
roasted.  The  term  "dry"  simply  means 
that  no  fat  has  been  added.  In  addi- 
tion, there  are  low-calorie  peanuts 
which  have  had  a  high  percentage  of 
the  fat  removed.  Since  much  of  the 
flavor  of  nuts  is  in  the  fat,  "defatted" 
ones  are  milder  in  peanut  flavor. 

Bernice  K.  McGeary  is  a  Nutritionist  with  the 
Consumer  Use  of  Foods  Staff,  Human  Nutrition 
Research  Division,  Agricultural  Research  Service. 

Malcolm  E.  Smith,  now  retired,  was  a  Market- 
ing Specialist,  Fruit  and  Vegetable  Division, 
Consumer  and  Marketing  Service. 


Volumewise,  processed  coconut  is 
one  of  the  most  important  nuts.  It 
is  marketed  almost  exclusively  in 
sweetened,  grated,  or  shredded  forms. 
Its  flavor  and  texture  are  similar  to 
fresh  coconut.  Sometimes,  more  perish- 
able coconut  that  is  labelled  "fresh" 
is  sold  in  stores  where  it  can  be  quickly 
moved  for  immediate  use. 

Grade  standards  have  been  estab- 
lished for  a  number  of  kinds  of  nuts 
by  the  Consumer  and  Marketing 
Service  of  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture.  Use  of  standards  is  not 
compulsory,  nor  are  packers  of  nuts 
required  to  mark  containers  with 
grade  designations.  However,  if  a 
package  of  nuts  is  so  marked,  the 
packer  is  legally  obligated  to  make  the 
contents  meet  requirements  of  the 
grade  specified.  Hence,  a  grademark 
on  a  container  is  a  reliable  indicator 
of  the  quality.  The  upper  grades  pro- 
vided in  each  of  the  existing  standards 
are  listed  in  a  table  below; 

Inspection  service  is  made  available 
at  cost  to  the  nut  packing  industry 
by  the  Consumer  and  Marketing 
Service  and  cooperating  State  depart- 
ments of  agriculture.  Government 
inspectors  will,  upon  request,  deter- 
mine and  certify  the  quality  and  grade 
of  a  specific  lot  of  nuts. 

Some  packers  of  nuts  have  con- 
tracted with  USDA's  Inspection  Serv- 
ice to  have  "continuous  inspection" 
at  their  plants.  Inspectors  are  present 
in  such  plants  at  all  times.  A  packer 


agrees  to  place  high-quality  nuts  in 
his  packages  in  return  for  the  privilege 
of  printing  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture  quality  shield  or  the  state- 
ment "USDA  Inspected"  on  his  con- 
tainers. This  shield  indicates  the  best 
quality  grade,  and  the  "USDA  In- 
spected" indicates  a  very  good  quality. 

Selection  of  nuts  deserves  care.  Like 
the  cover  of  a  book,  the  shell  of  a  nut 
may  be  deceiving.  Fully  developed 
shells  can  contain  defective  or  poorly 
developed  kernels  even  though  the 
shells  may  be  bleached  or  dyed  and 
waxed  to  improve  their  appearance. 

Price  alone  is  not  a  reliable  basis 
for  judging  quality  of  either  shelled, 
unshelled,  or  roasted  nuts.  Price  tags 
may  be  governed  by  kind,  size,  form 
of  nutmeats,  a  name,  or  other  factors 
rather  than  the  actual  quantity  and 
quality  of  the  nut  kernels. 

The  best  aid  to  the  shopper  is  a 
statement  on  the  label  which  shows 
that  the  nuts  are  of  a  certain  U.S. 
grade,  or  they  have  been  subjected  to 
USDA  inspection,  or  both. 

When  nuts  are  ungraded  or  do  not 
carry  the  inspection  mark  or  USDA 
shield,  you  will  especially  need  to  look 
for  other  signs  of  quality.  Sometimes 
experience  will  teach  you  that  certain 
brand  or  packers'  names  are  meaning- 
ful. There  are  more  guides  which  are 
related  to  particular  forms  of  nuts. 

Most  in-shell  nuts  are  found  in  the 
colorfully  printed  "see-through"  bags 
or  "window"   boxes.  Although  these 


U.S.  Grade  Standards  for  Nuts 


Kind  of  Nut 


Grade 


Description  of  quality 


In-shell 

Almonds 

Brazils 

English  walnuts 

Filberts 

Pecans 

Mixed  nuts  (almonds,  brazils, 
filberts,  pecans,  and  English 
walnuts). 

Shelled,  raw 
Almonds 

English  walnuts 

Pecans 

Peanut  butter 


U.S.  No.  1 Best  quality. 

U.S.  Extra  Fancy Best  quality  and  largest  sizes. 

At  least  1(5  percent  but  not  over  40 

percent  of  each  kind  in  the  mixture. 
U.S.  Fancy Same  quality  and  mixture,  but  permits 

smaller  sizes  of  some  kinds. 

U.S.  Fancy Best  quality. 

U.S.  Extra  No.  1 Almost  the  best — permits  a  few  dou- 
bles and  broken. 

U.S.  No.  1 Very  good  quality — permits  more  dou- 
bles and  broken. 

U.S.  No.  1 Best  quality. 

U.S.  No.  1 

U.S.  Grade  A 


197 


containers  allow  somewhat  limited 
observation  of  the  contents,  label  in- 
formation may  be  helpful  to  the  con- 
sumer. Nuts  which  are  available  in 
bulk  permit  thorough,  unobstructed 
examination  of  individual  nuts  for 
good  or  bad  factors  which  determine 
the  quality. 

Nuts  with  clean,  bright  shells  are 
likely  to  contain  good  kernels.  Shells 
that  are  dull,  dirty,  or  stained,  and 
those  that  are  cracked  or  broken  are 
sometimes  indicative  of  defective  ker- 
nels inside.  More  important  is  weight 
of  individual  nuts  in  proportion  to 
their  size.  The  heavier  the  nut,  the 
meatier  the  kernel. 

Good  coconuts  are  relatively  easy  to 
select.  First,  shake  the  coconut  to  de- 
termine that  it  has  a  large  amount  of 
liquid  or  "milk."  This  is  the  most  im- 
portant indication  of  freshness.  Then 
examine  the  "eyes,"  those  three  small, 
circular,  depressed  areas  near  one  end 
of  the  coconut.  Eyes  should  be  solid — 
not  cracked  or  punctured.  Finally,  look 
over  the  entire  shell  to  make  sure  it  is 
not  cracked. 

Chestnuts  can  be  deceiving  in  ap- 
pearance, but  there  are  a  few  criteria 
which  may  guide  shoppers.  Heavy 
weight  is  the  best  single  indication  of 
a  sound,  fresh  kernel.  Shells  should  be 
somewhat  glossy  and  should  be  pliable 
under  pressure  from  the  fingers.  They 
should  also  be  free  from  mold. 

Choosing  shelled  nuts  may  be  a  con- 
fusing matter  to  the  consumer  who  is 
faced  with  a  large  assortment  of  small 
packages.  The  task  can  be  made  easier 
and  more  successful  if  a  few  general 
factors  relating  to  quality  are  known. 

In  transparent  containers,  the  con- 
tents can  be  seen,  yet  nutmeats  are 
protected  from  oxidation  and  contam- 
ination. Vacuum-packed  metal  cans 
more  completely  protect  the  contents 
from  effects  of  air,  light,  and  contami- 
nation, but  shoppers  cannot  inspect 
the  nuts  before  buying. 

As  a  rule,  broken  kernels  or  "pieces" 
are  less  expensive  than  whole  kernels 
or  "halves"  of  the  same  kind  of  nuts. 
The  smaller  pieces  are  just  as  well  or 
better  suited  for  a  great  many  uses. 

198 


Exposed  flesh  of  broken  or  chopped 
nutmeats  should  be  light  colored  and 
look  fresh,  though  color  will  vary 
somewhat  with  the  kind  of  nut.  Yellow- 
ish, oily  appearance  indicates  aging 
with  probable  stale  flavor  or  possible 
early  stages  of  rancidity. 

Color  of  the  skin  covering  the  nut- 
meat  may  also  vary  with  the  age  and 
kind  of  nut.  Although  lighter  color  is 
generally  considered  preferable,  this  is 
largely  a  matter  of  appearance. 

Large  amounts  of  powdery  material 
and  "chaff"  or  "meal"  in  a  package 
may  be  due  to  poor  screening  before 
packing.  However,  plastic  bags  some- 
times create  static  electricity  and 
attract  particles  which  give  an  exag- 
gerated impression  of  the  amount  of 
meal  present. 

Close  examination  of  nutmeats  in 
transparent  containers  will  give  assur- 
ance that  they  are  apparently  free 
from  spoiled  kernels  and  pieces  of  shell. 

Roasted  and  salted  nuts  can  be 
chosen  by  most  of  the  same  basic 
quality  guides  as  for  shelled,  raw  nuts. 
Sometimes  the  advice  of  a  reputable 
merchant  is  helpful. 

Keeping  quality  of  nuts  depends  on 
the  way  you  treat  good  ones.  Under 
poor  conditions,  some  kinds  become 
inedible  within  a  month.  Ideally 
stored,  these  same  kinds  of  nuts  have 
retained  top  quality  for  5  years. 

Most  nuts  can  soon  lose  flavor  or 
develop  off-flavor  and  darken,  or  they 
can  mold  if  not  protected  from  air, 
heat,  light,  and  excessive  moisture. 

Rancidity  is  perhaps  the  worst 
enemy  of  kinds  of  nuts  that  are  highest 
in  fat.  Generally  speaking,  nutmeats 
are  50  to  70  percent  fat,  except  for 
coconuts  that  are  35  to  40  percent  fat, 
and  chestnuts  with  only  a  trace.  The 
fat  reacts  with  oxygen  from  the  air  to 
cause  "oxidation"  or  development  of 
rancid  flavor  and  odor. 

You  can  keep  in-shell  nuts  that  are 
highest  in  fat  in  a  cool,  dry  basement 
throughout  the  winter.  Shelled  ones 
retain  top  quality  in  tightly  closed 
containers  in  the  refrigerator  for  6 
months  or  more,  or  in  the  freezer  at 
0°  F.  for  2  years.  The  high-fat  nuts 


keep  longer  at  low  temperatures  or 
unshelled  and  unroasted.  Shelled  nuts 
also  keep  longer  if  kernels  are  un- 
broken (less  surface  exposed  to  air), 
vacuum  packed,  or  are  processed  with 
preservatives. 

Peanut  butter,  consisting  of  roasted 
and  ground  peanuts,  will  deteriorate 
less  rapidly  after  the  container  is 
opened  if  it  is  refrigerated. 

Fresh  coconuts  and  chestnuts  are 
more  perishable  than  other  nuts.  If 
refrigerated,  coconuts  will  keep  up  to 
a  month  and  chestnuts  should  keep 
several  months.  Chestnuts  must  be 
treated  differently  from  other  nuts. 
They  are  more  like  a  starchy  vegetable 
and  need  to  be  stored  in  loosely 
covered  containers  or  ventilated  plastic 
bags.  This  prevents  accumulation  of 
moisture  on  the  nuts  but  keeps  them 
from  becoming  dry  and  hard. 

To  freeze  nutmeats,  pack  them  in 
tighdy  closed  containers  or  in  plastic 
bags.  Wrap  chunks  of  fresh  coconut 
tightly  to  expel  the  air  from  around 
them.  Cover  fresh,  shredded  coconut 
with  liquid  (milk)  drained  from  the 
coconut.  Blanch  chestnut  meats  before 


freezing  them;  cook  frozen  ones  with- 
out defrosting. 

Nuts  are  versatile  foods.  They  are 
shared  with  the  monkeys  at  the  zoo, 
and  they  go  to  the  fanciest  party. 
Nuts  also  "dress-up"  any  part  of  a 
meal — fruit  cup  or  soup,  main  dish  or 
stuffing,  salad  or  salad  dressing,  vege- 
table or  vegetable  sauce,  all  types  of 
breads,  and  a  multitude  of  desserts. 

Preparation  of  nuts  may  be  com- 
plete if  you  buy  them  already  shelled. 
They  are  available  whole,  cut,  broken, 
or  ground;  and  they  are  either  raw  or 
roasted  in  a  number  of  ways.  Some 
kinds  are  blanched.  Processed  coconut 
is  grated  or  shredded  in  different  ways 
and  it  comes  in  varying  degrees  of 
moistness.  In-shell  nuts,  on  the  other 
hand,  may  require  considerable  time 
and  attention  before  they  are  usable. 

Shelling  nuts  is  a  slow,  awkward 
process  for  some  persons — fun  only  for 
snacking.  Experience  brings  more 
speed  and  ease  and  less  broken  nut- 
meats.  Hard  shells  may  be  easier  to 
crack  if  nuts  are  first  soaked  in  warm 
water  several  hours  or  overnight.  Nut- 
meats  will  come  out  less  broken  too, 


Coconut  yule  log — frosting  with  coconut  over  a  jelly  roll. 


Above,  three  peanut  flavored  drinks   and  peanut  butterscotch  squares.  In  photo  on  opposite 

page,  Roll  It  In  Peanuts  is  the  theme. 

200 


but  will  need  to  be  dried  before  storing. 

To  prepare  a  fresh  coconut,  pierce 
the  "eyes"  and  drain  out  the  "milk." 
Place  the  coconut  on  a  firm  surface 
and  strike  it  with  a  hammer  in  several 
places  to  crack  the  shell.  Remove  nut- 
meat  from  the  shell.  Separation  is 
easier  if  the  coconut  is  either  baked  at 
325°  F.  for  about  25  minutes  or  is 
frozen  before  cracking.  Then  use  a 
vegetable  parer  to  remove  the  brown 
skin  from  the  coconut  meat. 

Removing  thick  skins  from  some 
nut  meats  gives  them  a  more  delicate 
flavor  and  better  appearance. 

"Blanching"  is  a  common  term  for 
this  process. 

To  loosen  skins  of  raw  almonds  or 
peanuts,  let  them  stand  in  boiling 
water  for  about  3  minutes  or  roast 
them.  The  skins  should  then  slide  off 
easily.  Loosen  the  skins  on  filberts  by 
baking  them  at  300°  F.  for  10  to  15 
minutes.  Let  shelled  chestnuts  stand 
in  boiling  water  for  2  minutes.  Remove 
a  few  nuts  at  a  time,  cool  slighdy,  and 
peel  them.  Reheat  chestnuts  that  are 
difficult  to  peel. 

Roasting  nuts  is  an  ancient  custom. 


Flavor  and  color  usually  become  richer 
and  nuts  are  more  crisp  when  roasted 
or  toasted.  There  are  a  few  nuts, 
peanuts  being  most  common,  which 
so  often  reach  the  consumer  roasted 
that  many  people  have  never  tasted 
raw  ones.  Freshly  prepared  nuts  are 
always  best.  It  is  quick  and  easy  to 
roast  or  toast  them  for  snack  treats  or 
for  use  in  recipes,  but  watch  them  care- 
fully because  nuts  scorch  easily! 

To  roast  or  toast  nutmeats  or  proc- 
essed coconut  in  the  oven,  spread  in  a 
shallow  pan.  For  richer  flavor  and 
more  even  browning,  mix  a  teaspoon 
of  oil  or  melted  fat  with  each  cup  of 
nuts.  Bake  at  350°  F.  for  5  to  12 
minutes  until  lightly  browned,  stirring 
occasionally.  Salt  the  hot  nuts,  if  you 
desire.  Add  a  little  fat  to  help  make 
the  salt  cling,  if  needed. 

Nutmeats  or  processed  coconut  can 
also  be  toasted  in  a  heavy  pan  on  top 
of  the  range.  Heat  them  slowly  for  10 
to  15  minutes  until  lighdy  browned, 
stirring  frequendy. 

Roast  in-shell  peanuts  in  a  shallow 
pan  at  350°  F.,  stirring  occasionally, 
about  18  minutes  or  until  skins  slip  off 
easily  and  kernels  are  a  rich  brown. 

"Chestnuts  roasted  on  an  open  fire" 
are  an  American  legend.  Along  with 
extinction  of  the  native  chestnut  went 
frequent  appearance  of  this  nut  in  the 
home.  If  you  are  tasting  roasted 
chestnuts  for  the  first  time,  you  will  be 
surprised  to  find  that  the  nutmeats  are 
sweet  and  have  been  softened  by 
cooking.  Their  texture  is  somewhat 
like  cooked  potatoes;  both  are  starchy 
foods.  And  if  you're  roasting  chestnuts 
for  the  first  time,  you  may  be  shocked 
and  have  an  oven  to  clean,  too,  if  you 
are  unaware  of  another  characteristic 
of  these  nuts.  They  will  explode  unless 
the  shells  are  slit  before  heating  to 
allow  steam  to  escape.  Of  course,  some 
say  that  one  nut  should  be  allowed  to 
"pop"  and  thereby  announce  that  all 
are  roasted. 

For  roasting  chestnuts,  slash  each 
nut  through  the  shell  on  the  flat  side. 
Place  them,  cut  sides  up,  on  a  baking 
sheet.  Roast  at  400°  F.  about  20  min- 
utes until  tender. 

201 


Using  nuts  as  food  was  a  custom  of 
North  American  Indians.  Colonists  no 
doubt  found  their  inheritance  of  nuts 
provided  both  subsistence  and  good 
eating.  Nutmeats  were  added  to  stews 
or  were  ground  into  meals  for  breads 
or  puddings.  Some  were  even  made 
into  milklike  beverages. 

Old  recipes  using  acorns  as  human 
food  only  make  conversation  today — 
the  squirrels  can  have  these  nuts.  On 
the  other  hand,  imagine  where  we 
would  stand  without  some  of  the  kinds 
of  nuts  handed  down  to  us — black 
walnuts,  filberts  (cultivated  hazelnuts), 
and  pecans. 

When  nuts  are  a  part  of  foods,  they 
contribute  rich  flavor,  give  contrast  in 
texture,  and  make  a  pleasing  garnish. 

You  can  substitute  any  common  nut, 
except  chestnuts  and  coconut,  for  an- 
other kind  in  recipes.  Each  nut  will, 
of  course,  add  its  own  special  flavor. 
Salted  nuts  should  not  replace  un- 
salted  ones  unless  salt  can  be  reduced 
in  the  recipe.  Any  peanuts  used  should 
be  roasted  or  toasted  ones  unless  they 
will  brown  in  preparation  of  the  food. 
Do  not  use  ground-up  nuts  or  peanut 
butter  for  other  forms  of  nuts. 

The  black  walnut  is  the  only  com- 
mon nut  with  such  full  flavor  that  it  is 
almost  never  roasted.  It  is  often  the 
primary  flavor  of  a  food. 

Nut  britde  is  especially  good  when 
made  with  most  any  kind  of  freshly 
roasted  nuts,  including  mixed  ones. 
You  can  even  brown  raw  peanuts  right 
in  the  candy  as  it  cooks,  if  desired. 

Soups  have  been  one  of  the  least 
likely  places  for  nuts  to  appear.  The 
author  of  the  expression  "soup  to  nuts" 
perhaps  never  thought  of  combining 
the  two.  Now  they  seem  to  be  used 
this  way  to  some  extent  around  most 
of  the  world.  You  can  use  pecans  to 
make  Cream  of  Nut  Soup  into  a 
Mardi  Gras  special  or  use  cashews  for 
a  San  Juan  version.  For  a  Ghana-like 
peanut  soup,  use  peanut  butter. 

To  keep  nuts  crisp  in  foods,  add 
them  just  before  serving  or  use  them 
as  a  garnish.  Dry  or  toast  any  limp 
nuts  such  as  frozen,  defrosted  ones 
before  using  them. 

202 


To  extend  nut  flavor  in  foods,  use 
small  pieces,  roast  or  toast  them,  or 
use  more  highly  flavored  nuts.  Flavor 
is  enhanced  when  nuts  are  used  with 
brown  sugar  instead  of  white  or  by 
adding  a  little  maple  or  almond  flavor 
to  some  foods. 

Macadamias  and  pine  nuts  are  not 
as  widely  known  as  nuts  that  are  more 
available  and  perhaps  lower  in  price. 
Either  is  a  real  treat. 

Macadamias  look  much  like  hazel- 
nuts, but  are  competitors  of  cashews  for 
flavor.  They  are  good  raw,  but  only 
roasted  ones  may  be  available  to  you 
unless  you  live  where  they  are  grown, 
in  Hawaii  and  California. 

Pine  nuts  are  a  Biblical  food.  The 
many  varieties  of  these  pine  seeds  come 
under  the  broad  name,  "pignolias." 
Common  ones  in  Europe  and  Brazil 
are  longer  than  the  popular,  tiny 
"Indian"  nuts  of  our  Southwestern 
States.  Some  European  varieties  have 
a  slight  turpentine  flavor  unless  the 
nuts  are  cooked.  The  "pinon"  (Span- 
ish for  pine),  which  includes  Indian 
nuts,  is  the  most  common  kind.  Con- 
fectioners like  this  nut  for  a  dainty 
garnish. 

Pine  nuts  are  used  in  all  kinds  of 
foods  and  make  gourmet  mixed,  salted 
nuts. 

You  can  "experiment"  with  nuts. 
Special  recipes  are  not  always  needed. 
It  takes  only  a  little  imagination  to 
make  "company  fare"  of  plain  food. 
Many  good  old  standbys  are  even 
better  with  nuts.  Start  in  with  these 
suggestions : 

Add  toasted  nuts  to  creamed  or 
saucy  meat  dishes  or  vegetables. 

Serve  sour  cream  with  nuts  on  meat 
or  baked  potatoes. 

For  waffles,  biscuits,  or  muffins, 
stir  nuts  into  blended  dry  ingredients 
before  adding  liquid. 

Mix  crisp  bits  of  bacon  with  peanut 
butter  for  a  sandwich  filling,  or  use 
peanut  butter  and  cheese  slices  for  a 
grilled  sandwich  filling. 

Add  nuts  to  meat,  to  poultry,  or  to 
seafood  salads. 

Try  slivered  or  sliced  nuts  in  tossed 
vegetable  salads. 


Make  tiny  cream  cheese-nut  balls 
to  add  to  jellied  salads. 

Mix  coconut  with  a  food  color  for 
garnish. 

Roll  ice  cream  balls  in  tinted  or 
toasted  coconut  or  chopped  nuts. 
Freeze  balls  separately  until  set. 

Use  toasted  coconut  or  toasted, 
chopped  nuts  as  a  quick  topping  for 
cream  pie  or  ice  cream  pie. 

Sprinkle  cupcakes  with  nuts  before 
baking  to  eliminate  icing  them. 

Here  are  some  recipes: 

SUGAR  AND  SPICE  NUTS 

About  3%  cups 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  margarine,  melted 
1  egg  white,  slightly  beaten 

1  cup  sugar 

Yi  teaspoon  salt 
V/i  teaspoons  cinnamon 
%  teaspoon  nutmeg 
%  teaspoon  allspice 

2  cups   mixed    nuts   (almonds,    English 
walnuts,  and  pecans) 

Stir  cooled  fat  into  egg  whites.  Add 
nuts. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  spices.  Spread 
about  one-fourth  of  the  mixture  in  a 
large,  shallow  baking  pan. 

Coat  a  few  nuts  at  a  time  with  the 
remaining  sugar  and  arrange  in  pan. 
Sprinkle  rest  of  sugar  on  nuts. 

Bake  at  300°  F.  about  18  minutes 
until  lightly  browned.  Stir  gently  to 
separate  and  coat  nuts.  Cool  and  store 
in  closed  containers. 

SOUTHERN  NUT  CHESS  PIE 

9-inch  pie 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  packed 
%  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  tablespoon  flour 

2  eggs 
Kcup  milk 

yi  cup  butter  or  margarine,  melted 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

%to  1  cup  chopped  pecans  or  roasted  (un- 

salted)  peanuts 
9-inch  unbaked  pastry  shell 

Mix  sugars  and  flour.  Beat  in  eggs 
and  milk.  Stir  in  fat,  vanilla,  and  nuts. 
Pour  into  pastry  shell. 

Bake  pie  at  375°  F.  for  40  minutes 


or  until  a  knife  inserted  in  the  center 
comes  out  clean. 

NUT  CHESS  TARTS 

In  place  of  pastry  shell,  separate  the 
dough  into  12  parts.  Roll  thinly  and 
fit  into  2%-inch  muffin  tins.  Add  filling. 
Baking  time  will  be  shorter  than  for 
the  pie. 

BLACK  WALNUT  BREAD  USA 

7  loaf 

%  cup  light  brown  sugar,  packed 

%  cup  shortening 

2  eggs 

2  cups  unsifted  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Vi  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Y%  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk 

1  cup  chopped  black  walnuts 

Beat  the  sugar,  shortening,  and  eggs 
until  creamy. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  thoroughly;  stir 
alternately  with  the  milk  into  the  egg 
mixture.  Mix  nuts  with  the  last  por- 
tion of  the  flour  before  adding  to  the 
batter. 

Pour  into  a  greased  9-  by  5-  by  3- 
inch  baking  pan.  Bake  about  1  hour, 
or  until  a  toothpick  inserted  in  center 
comes  out  clean. 

Cool  10  minutes  before  removing 
from  pan. 

PARTY  NUT  BREAD 

Use  }{  cup  pecans,  English  walnuts, 
or  brazils  for  the  nuts.  Add  %  cup 
chopped,  candied  fruit  and  1  tea- 
spoon grated  lemon  rind  with  the 
nuts  to  the  dry  ingredients. 

NUT  BRITTLE 

1}{  pounds 

2  cups  sugar 

%  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

}i  teaspoon  baking  soda 

V/2  cups  roasted,  salted  nuts 

Combine  sugar,  sirup,  water,  and 
fat  in  a  large,  heavy  saucepan.  Cook, 

203 


stirring  only  until  sugar  dissolves.  Then 
cook  mixture  to  300°  F.,  or  until  a  few 
drops  form  hard,  britde  threads  in 
cold  water.  Remove  from  heat. 

Stir  in  remaining  ingredients.  Pour 
over  a  greased  baking  sheet.  Pull 
thinner  while  cooling,  if  desired.  Cool 
and  break  into  pieces. 

Note :  To  use  raw  peanuts,  add  them 
and  )i  teaspoon  salt  to  the  sirup  at 
238°  F.,  or  when  a  drop  makes  a  soft 
ball  in  cold  water.  Continue  to  cook 
as  above. 

CREAM  OF  NUT  SOUP 

6  servings 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  margarine 

2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  celery 
2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  onion 
2  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  milk 

2  cups  chicken  broth  or  bouillon 

Yt  teaspoon  hickory  salt  or  Worcestershire 

sauce 
1  cup  salted   pecans  or  cashews,  finely 

chopped 
Salt  and  pepper,  as  desired 
Paprika  or  minced  parsley,  as  desired 

Melt  fat  in  a  large,  heavy  saucepan. 


Add  celery  and  onion;  cook,  stirring 
frequendy  until  tender. 

Blend  in  flour.  Gradually  stir  in 
liquids,  hickory  salt  or  Worcestershire 
sauce,  salt  and  pepper,  and  nuts. 
Bring  to  a  boil  and  cook  1  minute 
longer,  stirring  as  needed. 

Garnish  with  paprika  or  parsley. 

CREAM  OF  PEANUT  BUTTER  SOUP 

Reduce  flour  to  1  tablespoon  in  the 
above  recipe.  Blend  in  %  cup  peanut 
butter  before  adding  liquids.  Omit 
other  nuts. 

SUNDAE  NUT  SIRUP 

6  servings 

%  cup  pecans  or  English  walnuts,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine,  melted 

Yt  cup  brown  sugar,  packed 

2  tablespoons  water 

2  tablespoons  light  corn  sirup 

Stir  the  nuts  in  the  fat  over  low 
heat  until  lighdy  browned.  Add  the 
remaining  ingredients.  Simmer  for  2 
minutes. 

Serve  warm  over  ice  cream. 


An   array  of  nuts— including   Indian   nuts    (pine   nuts  or  pinon),  coconut,  cashews,  pistachios, 
pecans,  mixed  nuts.  Macadamias,  and  peanuts. 


204 


Andrea  C.  Mackey 


Cereals,  the  Staff 
of  Life,  Take  on 
a  New  Importance 
in  Today's  World 


Cereal  grains  are  taking  on  new  impor- 
tance in  the  diets  of  today's  people  and 
those  of  the  future. 

All  important  civilizations  were 
founded  on  the  cultivation  and  use  of 
one  or  another  of  the  cereal  grains. 
The  early  civilizations  of  Babylonia, 
Egypt,  Greece,  and  Rome  were  based 
on  the  growing  of  wheat,  barley,  and 
the  millets.  The  ancient  cultures  of 
India,  China,  and  Japan  were  based 
on  the  rice  crop.  The  Inca,  Maya,  and 
Aztec  civilizations  in  the  New  World 
depended  on  their  crops  of  corn. 

Cultivation  of  the  cereal  grains 
began  so  long  ago  that  their  earliest 
history  cannot  be  pinpointed  exactly. 
However,  we  know  they  have  been 
man's  most  important  food  plants 
since  the  dawn  of  history. 

The  cereal  grains  are  the  dried  seeds 
of  cultivated  grasses  which  belong  to 
the  family  Gramineae.  They  are  rice, 
wheat,  oats,  barley,  corn,  rye,  grain 
sorghum,  and  millet. 

Cereals  have  stayed  with  us  through 
the  centuries  for  many  reasons.  One  or 
more  can  be  grown  almost  anywhere, 
thus  making  possible  a  food  supply  in 
nearly  every  corner  of  the  world.  They 
give  high  yields  per  acre  in  comparison 


with  other  food  crops.  They  can  be 
stored  compacdy  for  long  periods  and 
transported  cheaply.  They  are  palat- 
able and  nutritious. 

All  cereals  consist  of  three  parts :  The 
bran,  the  germ,  and  the  endosperm. 

The  whole  grains  are  concentrated 
sources  of  needed  nutrients,  being 
especially  valuable  sources  of  starch, 
protein,  the  B  vitamins,  iron,  and 
phosphorous.  The  protein  of  cereals  is 
not  complete.  But  the  addition  of  other 
foods  such  as  milk  or  meat  supple- 
ments the  cereal  protein,  thus  enabling 
it  to  become  a  valuable  nutrient  to 
the  body. 

The  cereal  proteins  are  low  in  two 
essential  amino  acids,  lysine  and 
tryptophan.  By  "essential"  we  mean 
that  these  amino  acids  must  be  pro- 
vided in  the  food  that  we  eat  for  the 
protein  needs  of  our  bodies.  We  can- 
not manufacture  them  for  ourselves 
from  other  things  we  eat. 

Even  now  steps  are  being  taken  to 
improve  the  nutritive  value  of  grain 
protein.  Our  agricultural  geneticists 
have  been  developing  strains  of  the 
cereal  grains  that  will  provide  good 
sources  of  all  the  amino  acids,  includ- 
ing lysine  and  tryptophan.  It  looks 
as  if,  in  the  near  future,  the  cereal 
grains  produced  by  the  everyday 
farmer  will  be  nearly  complete  foods 
in  that  they  will  provide  the  bulk  of 
nutrients  needed  by  man  for  his 
daily  food.  He  will  still  need  to  include 
sources  of  other  nutrients  such  as 
vitamins  A  and  C,  which  we  now 
obtain  from  fruits  and  vegetables,  and 
some  minerals,  such  as  calcium,  which 
Americans  usually  get  from  milk. 

In  the  United  States,  our  dietary 
needs  are  met  by  including  foods  from 
four  categories  in  our  meals :  The  bread 
and  cereal  groups,  meat  group,  milk 
group,  and  vegetable  and  fruit  group. 

The  grains  serve  as  food  not  only 
for  man  but  for  animals.  Their  un- 
paralleled importance  as  food  and 
feed,  as  well  as  their  industrial  use, 
imparts  great  economic  value  to  the 

Andrea  C.  Mackey  is  Professor  of  Foods  arid 
Nutrition  at  Oregon  State  University,  Corvallis. 

205 


cereal  grain  crops.  For  example,  corn 
yields  starch  which  can  in  turn  be 
converted  to  corn  sirup.  The  germ  of 
the  corn  grain  is  pressed  to  yield  oil. 
Both  the  corn  sirup  and  corn  oil  are 
common  household  materials  used  in 
food  preparation. 

Climate  determines  where  each  of 
the  cereal  grains  can  be  grown. 

Rice  is  the  principal  food  of  about 
half  the  world's  people.  About  95  per- 
cent of  the  world  rice  crop  is  produced 
and  consumed  in  the  southeastern 
part  of  Asia  from  India  to  Japan  and 
the  adjacent  tropical  and  subtropical 
islands.  The  United  States,  however, 
is  the  biggest  rice  exporter  in  the 
world — although  it  has  less  than  1 
percent  of  the  world's  rice  acreage. 

Corn  is  largely  a  New  World  crop, 
about  half  the  world  acreage  being  in 
the  United  States.  In  South  America, 
the  principal  corn-growing  countries 
are  Argentina  and  Brazil. 

Sorghum  grain  is  fairly  important 
throughout  the  world  but  particularly 
so  for  human  food  in  India  and  Africa. 
Millets  are  used  as  food  primarily  in 
eastern  and  southern  Asia,  parts  of 
Africa,  and  parts  of  the  Soviet  Union. 

Wheat  is  the  most  widely  cultivated 
of  all  cereal  grains.  It  is  grown  in 
all  countries  lying  in  the  temperate 
zones. 

Rye  can  be  grown  in  the  colder 
climates.  Winter  rye,  planted  in  the 
fall,  can  survive  winter  temperatures 
as  low  as  40°  below  zero.  It  is  grown 
beyond  the  Arctic  Circle  in  Finland 
and  in  Russia  as  far  north  as  the 
border  of  Siberia. 

More  than  80  percent  of  the  world 
acreage  of  oats  lies  in  the  moist,  cool, 
temperate  areas  of  North  America, 
northern  Europe,  and  Soviet  Russia. 
In  the  United  States,  more  than  three- 
fourths  of  the  crop  is  grown  in  the 
North  Central  States. 

Barley  is  an  important  crop  in  many 
countries  with  a  temperate  climate. 
In  the  United  States,  the  leading 
barley  growing  areas  are  in  California, 
North  Dakota,  South  Dakota,  Minne- 
sota, and  Montana. 

In  early  times,  cereals  were  cooked 

206 


by  parching  the  whole  grain.  The 
grains  were  also  ground  between  stones 
to  form  a  coarse  meal.  This  was  made 
into  heavy,  unleavened  flat  bread  or 
was  boiled  with  water  to  make  a 
porridge.  Flat  bread  has  been  found 
along  with  parched  or  uncooked  stores 
of  wheat,  barley,  and  millet  in  the 
ruins  of  the  Swiss  lake  dwellers  who 
lived  six  to  seven  thousand  years  ago. 
It  has  also  been  found  in  Egyptian 
tombs. 

Today's  consumers  want  conveni- 
ence, high  nutritive  value,  palatability, 
and  attractive  appearance  in  their 
foods.  They  get  all  this  in  cereals. 
Now  the  cereal  grains  come  to  the 
market  in  many  different  forms.  Prod- 
ucts made  of  corn,  oats,  rice,  and  wheat 
are  most  common.  For  convenience, 
we  may  think  of  cereals  in  two  cate- 
gories— those  to  be  prepared  by  cook- 
ing and  served  hot,  and  those  that  are 
ready  to  eat  as  they  come  from  the 
package. 

The  first  ready-to-eat  cereal  was 
developed  back  in  1893.  What  an 
interesting  new  idea  this  was!  And 
what  merchandising  problems  must 
have  arisen,  for  it  was  an  entirely  new 
type  of  product.  It  did  not  take  long 
for  the  idea  to  catch  on,  however, 
and  ready-to-eat  cereal  appeared  on 
breakfast  tables  everywhere. 

Next,  in  1894,  the  first  flaked  cereal 
product  was  developed  by  Dr.  John 
Harvey  Kellogg. 

Soon  after,  Charles  W.  Post  pro- 
duced a  ground,  ready-to-eat  cereal. 
And  in  1902,  Alexander  Anderson 
developed  the  first  puffed  cereal. 

How  are  puffed  grain  products 
made?  A  manufacturer  says  that 
they  really  are  shot  from  "guns."  The 
"guns"  are  loaded  with  grain,  and 
heat  and  pressure  are  built  up.  The 
pressure  is  suddenly  released,  and 
puffed  kernels  shower  from  the  guns 
in  a  noisy  explosion. 

Today  the  homemaker  can  make  her 
selection  of  ready-to-eat  cereals  from 
among  100  or  more  items,  brands,  and 
package  sizes  on  the  supermarket 
shelves. 

Today's  cereals  not  only  have   a 


'  ■  i'a  " 


Noodles  Romanoff  with  chops. 


variety  of  taste  appeal,  but  they  also 
have  added  convenience.  One  of  the 
chief  appeals  of  the  ready-to-cat  cereals 
is  their  "no  cooking"  convenience. 
However,  the  traditional  uncooked 
cereals  now  offer  some  of  the  same 
benefits.  Some  are  "instant."  Add  hot 
water  and  they  are  ready  to  eat. 
Others  take  but  1  to  5  minutes  of 
cooking  time.  Contrast  this  with  the 
same  kinds  of  cereals  that  25  years 
ago  took  from  30  minutes  to  3  hours  to 
cook! 

The  quick  cooking  feature  is  achieved 
by  cereal  manufacturers  in  several 
ways.  The  grain  may  be  precooked, 
then  dried.  A  small  amount  of  di- 
sodium  phosphate  may  be  added,  or 
the  cereal  may  be  modified  during 
manufacture  with  a  small  amount  of 
enzyme  preparation.  All  these  proc- 
esses make  it  possible  for  water  to 
reenter  the  grain  very  rapidly,  thus 
speeding  up  the  cooking  time. 

The  packaged  cereal  grains  that  are 


to  be  cooked  should  not  be  washed. 
To  do  so  removes  valuable  nutrients, 
especially  the  B  vitamins.  Except  for 
macaroni  products,  it  is  best  to  cook 
cereals  and  rice  in  just  enough  water 
so  that  the  water  will  be  completely 
absorbed.  Pasta  products  (macaroni) 
are  usually  cooked  in  an  excess  of 
water.  However,  some  recipes  call  for 
cooking  them  in  meat  broth  in  suffi- 
cient quantity  so  all  of  the  liquid  is 
absorbed. 

The  processing  of  cereals  is  a  bigger 
enterprise  in  the  United  States  than  in 
any  other  country.  They  are  manufac- 
tured here  and  exported  throughout 
the  world.  The  fabulous  breakfast  ce- 
real industry  originated  in  our  country 
and  has  been  propagated  by  our  large 
cereal  companies. 

The  story  of  grain  as  it  moves  from 
the  farmer's  field  to  the  breakfast  tables 
of  the  United  States  and  many  parts  of 
the  world  is  told  by  the  Battle  Creek 
Board    of  Education   in   a    brochure, 

207 


Oatmeal  bread. 


"Inside  Battle  Creek."  Farmers  are 
the  source  of  all  grains,  but  grain 
directly  from  the  field  is  not  ready  for 
processing.  The  farmers  usually  sell 
their  grain  to  nearby  elevators  which 
clean  and  store  the  grain.  They  in  turn 
sell  the  grain  to  elevators  located  near 
food  processing  centers,  or  direcdy  to 
the  food  processors. 

They  may  sell  to  brokers  who  act  as 
intermediaries  in  supplying  the  needs 
of  processors. 

Following  the  purchasing  of  the 
grain,  it  is  brought  to  the  company's 
storage  bins.  It  then  enters  the  manu- 
facturing chain  which  will  result  in  the 
needed  amount  of  the  desired  finished 
product.  Marketing  the  finished  cereals 
is  regarded  one  of  the  many  vital  steps 
in  routing  the  product  to  the  customer. 

To  do  a  good  job  of  marketing  re- 
quires informing  the  public  about  the 

208 


product,  and  creating  and  maintaining 
a  demand  for  it.  This  is  done  by  adver- 
tising. The  cereals  are  shipped  from 
the  manufacturing  plant  to  the  retail 
stores,  usually  via  food  brokers  or 
wholesalers,  but  sometimes  directly  to 
the  warehouses  of  the  large  retail  stores. 
When  the  packages  arrive  at  the  local 
market  and  are  placed  on  the  shelves, 
the  homemaker  should  already  be  in- 
formed about  them  and  she  should  be 
interested  in  trying  them. 

There  are  many  uses  for  cereal  grains. 

Barley  is  sold  as  pearled  barley  which 
is  popular  for  use  in  soups.  It  is  the 
whole  grain  which  has  had  the  hulls 
and  bran  removed.  Barley  flour  is  used 
in  baby  foods  and  in  breakfast  cereals. 

Corn  is  made  into  cornmeal  or  grits 
which  must  be  cooked.  Ready- to-eat 
corn  flakes  are  made  by  blending  grits 
with  malt,  sugar,  and  other  ingredi- 


ents,  followed  by  cooking,  rolling,  and 
toasting. 

Wheat  and  rye  for  human  food  are 
milled  into  flour.  Rye  flour  is  used  for 
making  bread.  A  high  proportion  of 
the  wheat  crop  is  milled  into  flour 
which  in  turn  is  used  to  create  many 
kinds  of  baked  goods,  as  crackers, 
bread,  and  cakes. 

One  variety  of  wheat  (Durum)  is 
made  into  macaroni  type  products. 
Wheat  is  also  converted  into  breakfast 
cereals  to  be  cooked  and  served  hot, 
like  farina,  cream  of  wheat,  and  rolled 
wheat,  and  ready-to-eat  kinds  such  as 
puffed,  shredded,  and  flaked  wheat. 

Among  the  foods  made  from  oats, 
rolled  oats  have  been  available  for  the 
longest  time.  In  the  ready-to-eat  oats 
cereals,  there  are  flaked,  puffed,  and 
shredded  forms.  Rolled  oats,  whether 
old  fashioned,  quick,  or  instant,  are 
made  from  the  whole  grain,  including 
the  bran  and  germ. 

Rice  is  boiled  or  steamed  to  prepare 
it  for  the  table.  It  may  be  white 
polished  rice,  brown  rice  which  retains 
part  of  the  bran  coat,  or  converted  rice, 
which  has  been  precooked  and  dried 
before  polishing. 

Consumer  preference  decides  to  a 
large  extent  which  rice  people  buy. 
Brown  rice  has  more  nutrients  (the  B 
vitamins — thiamine,  riboflavin,  and 
niacin)  but  for  many  people  doesn't 
have  the  sales  appeal  of  polished  white 
rice.  Nor  does  brown  rice  cook  up  as 
fluffy  and  as  quickly  as  some  of  the 
other  rices.  Converted  rice  or  par- 
boiled ranks  next  to  brown  rice  in 
nutritive  value.  During  the  conversion 
process  most  of  the  vitamin  B  is  forced 
into  the  interior  of  the  grain  and  is 
not  lost  when  the  bran  is  discarded. 

These  differences  are  often  adjusted 
with  enrichment.  Nowadays  most  of 
the  breakfast  cereals,  whether  ready  to 
eat  or  to  be  cooked,  are  enriched  by 
the  addition  of  minerals  and  vitamins. 
Some  are  enriched  with  added  protein. 

Enrichment  of  grain  foods  with  vita- 
mins and  minerals  is  of  great  impor- 
tance to  the  nutritional  well-being  of 
many  people.  It  is  necessary  that  most 
of  the  calories  consumed  in  the  day's 


meals  should  carry  with  them  a  reason- 
able amount  of  nutrients,  like  the 
vitamins  and  minerals,  to  establish  a 
balanced  diet. 

While  whole  grain  cereals,  contain- 
ing as  they  do  the  bran  and  germ  of 
the  grain,  have  ample  supplies  of 
valuable  vitamins  and  minerals,  the 
bran  coat  tends  to  be  somewhat  firm 
and  coarse  even  when  cooked.  Some 
people  find  whole  grains  harder  to 
digest  for  this  reason. 

When  processed  into  other  forms 
attractive  to  a  wide  variety  of  personal 
tastes,  the  bran  and  germ  are  often 
removed,  carrying  with  them  much  of 
the  vitamin  and  mineral  content.  En- 
richment returns  these  essential  nutri- 
ents to  the  product,  making  the  cereal 
equally  or  more  nutritious  than  before 
processing. 

To  keep  the  flavor  of  cereals  good 
from  the  time  the  package  is  opened 
until  all  the  contents  have  been  used, 
they  should  be  stored  in  a  dry,  cool 
convenient  place  in  the  kitchen.  By 
opening  the  cereal  container  care- 
fully, it  can  be  reclosed,  thus  helping 
to  protect  the  food.  It  is  also  advisable 
to  store  cereals  in  a  different  place 
from  soap  or  other  products  having 
strong  odors. 

Cereals  should  be  kept  in  their 
original  packages.  The  package  label 
has  important  information.  It  identifies 
the  product,  tells  how  to  cook  it,  and 
often  gives  a  recipe  which  you  may 
enjoy  trying. 

Cereals  are  inexpensive  foods.  It 
might  be  expected  that  those  more 
sophisticated  items  like  puffed  or 
shredded  enriched  cereals  would  cost 
more  than  the  grains  from  which  they 
were  developed.  The  cost  of  many 
ready-to-eat  cereals  having  such  spe- 
cial features  as  sugar  coating  and  being 
crisply  toasted  is  approximately  four 
times  as  much  as  those  that  require 
cooking.  When  you  remember  you  are 
buying  food  value — cereals  are  ap- 
proximately 12  percent  water  while 
most  other  foods  contain  a  much 
higher  percentage  of  water — all  cere- 
als are  among  our  least  expensive 
foods.  Each  ounce  of  ready-to-eat  or 

209 


uncooked  cereal  has  about  104  calo- 
ries. One  ounce  is  considered  as  an 
average  serving. 

Although  spoken  of  as  breakfast 
cereals,  these  foods  readily  perform 
special  functions  as  ingredients  in 
recipes  intended  for  use  at  other  meals. 
Their  usefulness  as  ingredients  is  indi- 
cated by  such  recipes  as  the  following : 

"Date  nut  flake  bread"  in  which 
whole  wheat  flakes,  bran  flakes,  or 
corn  flakes  are  used;  "orange  fluff 
pie"  in  which  corn  flakes  are  used  to 
make  the  crust;  or  "easy-do  tuna  on 
buttery  cereal  crunch"  in  which 
creamed  tuna  is  served  over  shredded 
wheat  or  bite-size  cereals. 

These  recipes  and  a  number  of 
others  were  found  in  "Cereal  Service 
Brochure,"  a  publication  of  the  Cereal 
Institute,  Inc.,  135  South  LaSalle  St., 
Chicago,  111.  60603.  This  brochure  will 
be  sent  to  you  without  charge  if  you 
write  for  it. 

CURRIED  CHICKEN  DELUXE 

8  servings 

Curried  chicken: 

1  cup  chopped  onions 

}£  cup  chopped  green  pepper 
J4  cup  butter  or  margarine 
%  cup  flour 
5  cups  chicken  broth 
or 

3  cans  chicken  broth  (12}i  ounces  each) 
Salt  to  taste 

2  tablespoons  curry  powder 

4  cups  chicken,  cooked  and  diced 

Saute  onions  and  green  pepper  in 
the  fat  in  a  frying  pan  until  tender. 

Stir  in  flour. 

Gradually  blend  in  chicken  broth. 
Add  salt  and  curry  powder. 

Cook  until  thickened,  stirring  as 
needed. 

Add  chicken  and  heat  thoroughly. 

Serve  over  deluxe  rice. 

DELUXE  RICE 

}i  cup  slivered,  blanched  almonds 
2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 
2%  cups  water  (or  amount  specified  on 

package) 
Ys  cup  dried  currants 
1  teaspoon  salt 
2%  cups  packaged  precooked  rice 

210 


Saute  almonds  in  the  fat  in  a  frying 
pan  until  golden  brown. 

Add  water,  currants,  and  salt.  Bring 
to  a  boil.  Stir  in  rice.  Then  cover,  re- 
move from  heat,  and  let  it  stand  for 
5  minutes. 

Fluff  with  fork  before  serving. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  CEREAL  SQUARES 

4  dozen  pieces 

5  cups  toasted  oat  cereal  rings 

1  cup  sugar-coated  corn  puffs 
1^4  cups  sugar 

V>i  cups  corn  sirup,  light 
6-ounce  package  butterscotch  bits 
6-ounce  package  chocolate  bits 
}i  cup  butter  or  margarine 

3  tablespoons  milk 
}i  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  peanut  butter 
2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Grease  a  9"  x  13"  x  2"  baking  pan. 

Combine  cereals ;  set  aside. 

Combine  sugar,  sirup,  butterscotch 
and  chocolate  bits,  fat,  milk,  and  salt 
in  large  saucepan. 

Heat,  stirring  until  sugar  melts. 

Cook  until  mixture  comes  to  a  full 
boil.  Then  cook  it  1  minute,  stirring 
constantly. 

Remove  from  heat. 

Add  peanut  butter,  vanilla,  and 
cereals;  mix  well,  and  pour  at  once 
into  baking  pan. 

Cool ;  cut  into  squares. 

LASAGNA 

4  large  servings 

4  ounces  lasagna  noodles 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

]i  cup  finely  chopped  onion 

1  finely  chopped  garlic  clove 

Yt  pound  ground  beef 

1  can  (6  ounces)  tomato  paste 

1  can  (20  ounces)  tomatoes 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Ys  teaspoon  pepper 

Yi  teaspoon  basil 

34  teaspoon  oregano 

}i  pound  ricotta  or  cottage  cheese 

Yi  pound  natural  or  process  Swiss  cheese 

slices 

Yi  cup  parmesan  cheese,  grated 

Cook  lasagna  noodles  until  tender, 
using  package  directions.  Drain. 
Separate    lasagna    and    hang    over 


edge  of  colander  or  pan  to  allow  for 
easy  handling  later. 

While  lasagna  is  cooking,  melt  fat 
in  large  frying  pan. 

Add  onion  and  garlic  and  cook  over 
moderate  heat  until  tender.  Add 
ground  beef,  and  cook  slowly,  stirring 
frequendy  until  red  color  disappears 
from  meat. 

Stir  in  tomato  paste,  tomatoes,  salt, 
pepper,  basil,  and  oregano. 

Simmer  30  minutes,  stirring  occa- 
sionally. 

In  an  8-inch  square  baking  dish, 
make  three  layers  of  meat  sauce, 
lasagna,  and  ricotta,  Swiss,  and  par- 
mesan  cheeses.  Use  about  %  of  each 
for  each  layer,  topping  with  parmesan 
cheese. 

Bake  at  350°  F.  until  mixture  is 
bubbly  and  cheese  is  lighdy  browned, 
about  35  to  40  minutes. 

MACARONI,  EGG,  AND  BEAN  SALAD 

6  servings 

2  cups  cooked  and  cooled  elbow  macaroni 

^cup  mayonnaise 

Yi  cup  french  dressing 

Ys  teaspoon  hot  pepper  sauce 

Ys  cup  sweet  pickles,  diced 

2  tablespoons  vinegar 

6  hard-cooked,  cubed  eggs 

1  can  (8  ounces)  kidney  beans,  drained 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  all  ingredients. 

Chill  and  serve  on  lettuce  or  other 
salad  greens.  Garnish  with  watercress 
if  desired. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD 

2  loaves 

1  cup  rye  flour 
1  cup  cornmeal 

1  cup  whole-wheat  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt 
%  cup  molasses 

2  cups  sour  milk  or  buttermilk 
1  cup  seedless  raisins 

Mix  dry  ingredients. 

Stir  in  molasses,  milk,  and  raisins. 
Beat  well. 

Pour  into  two  greased  1 -pound 
coffee  cans. 

Cover  cans  with  wax  paper.  Set  on 


rack   in   deep   pan   over   hot  water. 
Cover  pan  tightly. 

Steam  for  3  hours. 

Serve  with  butter  or  margarine. 

PUMPERNICKEL 

2  loaves 

V/t  cups  warm  water,  110°-115°  F. 

3  packages  active,  dry  yeast 

4  teaspoons  salt 

2  teaspoons  caraway  seeds 
2  tablespoons  shortening 
Yi  cup  molasses 
2%  cups  sifted  rye  flour 
3)£  cups  sifted  flour 

Measure  water  into  mixing  bowl 
and  add  yeast,  stirring  to  dissolve. 
Stir  in  salt  and  caraway  seeds.  Mix 
in  shortening,  molasses,  and  rye  flour 
until  smooth.  Mix  in  flour  until  dough 
can  be  handled. 

Turn  onto  a  lightly  floured  board; 
knead.  Cover  with  a  damp  cloth.  Let 
rise  in  warm  place  (about  85°  F.)  until 
double  in  volume.  This  will  take  about 
1  %  hours. 

Punch  down  and  let  dough  rise 
again  until  almost  double. 

Shape  into  two  round,  slightly 
flattened  loaves. 

Place  on  opposite  corners  of  a 
greased  baking  sheet  which  has  been 
lightly  sprinkled  with  cornmeal. 

Cover  with  damp  cloth,  and  let  rise 
until  double  in  volume,  about  1  hour. 

Bake  at  375°  F.  until  brown,  30  to 
35  minutes. 

Brush  loaves  with  fat  after  removing 
from  oven.  Cool  on  rack. 

FRIED  CORNMEAL  MUSH 

4  servings 

Pour  2  cups  cooked  cornmeal  mush 
into  a  loaf  pan.  Mush  must  be  thick 
to  mold. 

Cover  to  prevent  crust  from  form- 
ing. Chill  thoroughly. 

Cut  in  }£-inch  slices  and  fry  in  bacon 
drippings  or  other  fat  until  crisp  and 
nicely  browned  on  both  sides. 

Serve  hot  with  butter  or  margarine 
and  with  sirup  or  jelly  and  bacon  or 
sausages  if  desired.  (For  a  crisper  crust, 
dip  slices  in  cornmeal,  then  fry.) 

211 


WHOLE  WHEAT  PANCAKES 

12  pancakes 

1J4  cups  whole  wheat  flour 

1  tablespoon  baking  powder 

%  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

1  beaten  egg 

IK  cups  milk 

3  tablespoons  melted  shortening 

Thoroughly  mix  dry  ingredients. 

Combine  the  egg,  milk,  and  short- 
ening. Add  to  the  dry  ingredients  and 
mix  until  smooth. 

Drop  the  mixture  from  a  spoon  onto 
a  hot,  lighdy  greased  griddle. 

Cook  until  bubbles  form  on  the  top. 

Turn  and  brown  the  other  side. 


VIRGINIA  SPOON  BREAD 

6  servings 

1  cup  cornmeal 
1%  teaspoons  salt 

2  cups  scalded  milk 

2%  teaspoons  baking  powder 
2  eggs,  separated 

Mix  cornmeal  and  salt,  stir  into 
hot  milk. 

Cook  over  hot  water  until  thick  and 
smooth,  stirring  occasionally;  cool 
slighUy. 


Stir  in  the  baking  powder  and  well- 
beaten  egg  yolks. 

Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 

Turn  into  greased  casserole  or  9-inch 
square  pan. 

Bake  at  375°  F.  about  35  minutes, 
or  until  firm  and  crust  is  brown. 

Serve  from  baking  dish. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

5  dozen  cookies 

%  cup  shortening 

1  cup  packed  brown  sugar 

Yi  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  egg 

Yt  cup  water 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sifted  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  baking  soda 

1  cup  raisins 

3  cups  rolled  oats,  uncooked 

Place  shortening,  sugars,  egg,  water, 
and  the  vanilla  in  mixing  bowl;  beat 
thoroughly. 

Sift  together  flour,  salt,  and  soda; 
add  to  shortening  mixture,  mix  well. 

Blend  in  oats  and  raisins. 

Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  onto  greased 
cookie  sheets. 

Bake  at  350°  F.  for  12  to  15  minutes 
or  until  lighdy  browned. 


212 


Theresa  A.  Demus 

Baking  Treats 
Ad  Infinitum: 
Breads  and 
Tasty  Pastry 


Bread  is  one  of  man's  oldest  foods.  It 
is  referred  to  in  the  Old  Testament  as 
leavened  and  unleavened  loaves  and 
cakes.  Over  the  world,  bread  is  known 
by  many  names  and  is  made  from 
many  grains — wheat,  corn,  rye,  rice, 
oats,  barley,  buckwheat. 

Bread  continues  to  be  an  important 
part  of  our  diet  because  the  grains 
from  which  cereal  foods  are  made  are 
grown  almost  all  over  the  world.  These 
grains  are  readily  available,  produce 
high  yields,  and  have  low  production 
cost.  They  also  have  excellent  "keep- 
ing" qualities.  Breads  and  the  related 
cereal  foods  constitute  the  largest 
single  item  in  the  average  diet.  They 
are  the  greatest  source  of  carbohy- 
drates, furnishing  many  necessary  cal- 
ories. Enrichment  and  fortification  of 
flour  has  greatly  improved  diets  in 
which  bread  is  the  chief  item. 

When  many  of  us  think  of  breads, 
cakes,  donuts,  cookies,  or  pastries, 
we  remember  the  irresistible  aroma 
that  drew  us  to  the  kitchen  to  swipe 
Mom's  cookies. 

Today,  however,  our  markets  pro- 
vide bakery  items  ad  infinitum.  There 
are  the  ready-to-serve  products,  the 
partially-baked  products,  the   ready- 


to-serve  frozen  products,  the  prepared 
frozen  products,  the  canned  prepared 
products,  and  the  prepared  mixes. 
These  items  are  widely  available,  and 
there  is  considerable  variety  to  suit 
individual  needs  and  wants. 

Ready-to-serve  products  have  been 
baked  and  are  ready  for  the  table. 
Breads,  sweet  rolls,  donuts,  pastries, 
and  cookies  are  among  the  numerous 
items  of  ready-to-serve  products. 

Partially-baked  products  are  "half 
baked."  Baking  must  be  completed  at 
home  before  serving.  Available  forms 
are  loaves  of  bread,  rolls,  and  buns. 

Ready-to-serve  frozen  products  are 
fully  prepared  products  ready  to  serve 
after  thawing.  If  desired,  these  prod- 
ucts can  be  heated  before  serving. 
Cakes,  pastries,  some  pies,  rolls,  and 
buns  are  sold  in  this  manner. 

Prepared  frozen  products  have  not 
been  baked  before  freezing.  They  re- 
quire baking  before  serving.  Breads, 
pies,  rolls,  and  hors  d'oeuvres  are  avail- 
able in  today's  market.  These  products 
must  be  kept  frozen  until  used. 

Canned  prepared  products  must 
be  completely  baked  before  serving. 
Cookies,  biscuits,  and  rolls  are  among 
the  variety  of  products  that  can  be 
purchased.  Canned  prepared  products 
need  to  be  refrigerated  until  used. 

Prepared  mixes  are  convenience 
preparations  containing  basic  ingredi- 
ents like  flour,  shortening,  sugar,  leav- 
ening. The  consumer  must  add  such 
ingredients  as  water  or  milk  and/or 
eggs.  Pie  crusts,  cakes,  and  roll  mixes 
are  available  in  this  form.  No  refrig- 
eration is  needed  for  these  mixes.  They 
can  be  stored  on  the  kitchen  shelf. 

Flours  are  made  by  grinding  cereal 
grains  to  powders  of  varying  fineness. 
A  meal  is  coarsely  ground  flour. 

Wheat  is  the  preferred  grain  for 
flour.  Present  in  wheat  flour  are  the 
proteins — gliadin  and  glutenin.  Glia- 
din  is  of  a  sticky  nature  which  imparts 
adhesiveness  to  the  gluten,  while  glu- 
tenin imparts  tenacity  and  strength. 

Theresa  A.  Demus  is  Director  of  the  Consumer 
Services  Staff,  Office  oj  the  Assistant  Commis- 
sioner for  Education  and  Information,  Food 
and  Drug  Administration. 

213 


Peach  Paradise,  above,  and  sourdough  breads,  below.  To  make  Peach  Paradise,  start  with  large 
chiffon  or  angel  food  cake.  Slice  it  into  two  layers  and  spread  each  layer  with  whipped  cream 
Freestone  peach  slices  go  between  layers  and  are  arranged  on  top.  Combine  layers  and  spread 
sides  with  whipped  cream  and  toasted  coconut. 


The  combination  of  these  two  very 
different  proteins  with  water  is  known 
as  gluten.  Gluten  is  the  elastic  part 
of  dough  which  allows  the  batter  or 
dough  to  expand  as  gas  is  released  from 
the  leavening  agent.  When  heated,  it 
coagulates  and  forms  the  structure, 
imparting  form  and  lightness  to  the 
product. 

There  are  several  types  of  wheat — 
durum  wheats,  hard  wheats,  and  soft 
wheats.  These  wheats  vary  in  the 
amount  of  protein  they  contain.  Spe- 
cial blending  of  the  wheat  flours  makes 
the  flours  more  adaptable  for  special 
uses,  for  example: 

•  Pasta  flours  are  milled  from  durum 
wheat  which  is  high  in  protein,  and 
their  best  use  is  to  make  noodles,  mac- 
aroni, and  spaghetti. 

•  Bread  flours  are  milled  primarily  for 
the  baker.  They  are  a  blend  of  hard 
spring  and  hard  winter  wheats.  They 
may  be  bleached  or  unbleached.  These 
flours  are  somewhat  granular  to  the 
touch. 

•  Cake  flours  are  bleached  flours  milled 
from  soft  wheats,  and  are  the  most 
finely  ground  of  all  the  flours.  Protein 
content  of  these  flours  is  low. 

•  Pastry  flours  are  generally  milled 
from  soft  wheat;  however,  they  can  be 
made  from  either  hard  or  soft  wheat. 
These  flours  are  used  largely  by  bakers, 
and  are  unbleached. 

•  All-purpose  flours  can  be  blends  of 
hard  wheats  or  soft  wheats  or  both, 
depending  on  what  area  of  the  country 
the  wheat  comes  from.  These  flours  are 
blended  to  obtain  satisfactory  results 
for  general  family  cooking.  Protein 
content  is  sufficient  to  make  good  yeast 
breads  as  well  as  quick  breads. 

•  Self-rising  flour  is  an  intimate  mix- 
ture of  flour,  sodium  bicarbonate  (bak- 
ing soda),  and  one  or  more  of  the  acid- 
reacting  substances — monocalcium 
phosphate,  sodium  acid  pyrophos- 
phate, and  sodium  aluminum  phos- 
phate (baking  powder). 

Rye  is  second  to  wheat  as  a  bread- 
making  grain.  This  grain  is  used 
extensively  with  wheat  in  breads. 


Rye  flour  is  always  darker  than 
wheat  flour.  Bleaching  has  little  effect 
on  the  color,  but  improves  the  baking 
properties.  Rye  gluten  contains  the 
same  protein  as  wheat  gluten,  but  in 
different  proportions.  Its  proteins  are 
very  different  in  character  and  lack 
stability.  Therefore,  it  is  difficult  to 
make  a  loaf  of  considerable  volume. 

Rye  bread  has  a  close  texture  and  is 
difficult  to  bake.  Pumpernickel  is  an 
example  of  an  all-rye  flour  bread. 
Many  varieties  of  bread  are  available 
currently  with  a  rye  and  wheat  grain 
combination. 

Oats  are  rich  in  protein  and  are 
very  nourishing  although  they  are  not 
suitable  for  breadmaking  because  they 
contain    no    gluten-forming    protein. 

Oats  and  oatmeal  are  important 
breakfast  foods.  They  are  also  used 
with  other  flours  to  make  tasty  cookies. 

Corn  contains  the  protein  gliadin 
but  does  not  contain  glutenin.  This 
means  that  cornmeal  cannot  form 
gluten  and  must  be  used  with  a  wheat 
flour  for  making  breads.  Cornmeal 
is  used  very  extensively  in  the  United 
States,  particularly  in  the  South,  for 
making  cornbread,  spoonbread,  muf- 
fins, and  mush. 

Barley  is  not  normally  used  for 
breadmaking  purposes.  It  is  low  in 
protein  and  fat.  It  is  known  for  its 
high  mineral  content.  This  food  is 
seldom  used  in  our  country  except  in 
soups. 

Rice  may  be  purchased  as  white 
(polished)  or  brown  (unpolished)  in 
varieties  grouped  as  long  grain,  me- 
dium, or  short  grain. 

Rice  flour  is  milled  from  white  rice. 
It  is  particularly  useful  in  diets  for 
persons  who  have  allergies  to  other 
cereal  grains.  Rice  flour  can  be  used 
as  a  thickening  agent  or  as  flour  in 
certain  baked  products  such  as  cookies 
and  pancakes. 

Buckwheat  is  used  only  as  pancake 
flour.  It  is  not  a  true  grain,  but  is  used 
as  a  cereal. 

In  the  refining,  compounding,  or 
processing  of  some  foods,  there  is  an 
unavoidable  loss  of  vitamins  and 
minerals.  Enrichment  is  to  replace  or 

215 


to  restore  the  food  by  adding  pure 
vitamins  and  minerals  to  the  natural 
level  of  the  original  product. 

Milling  of  low  extraction  fine  white 
flour,  cornmeal,  and  polished  white 
rice  results  in  unavoidable  losses  of 
some  nutrients.  The  Food  and  Nutri- 
tion Board  of  the  National  Research 
Council,  recognizing  the  deficiency  of 
these  products  in  vitamins  and  iron, 
recommended  that  all  white  flours  be 
enriched.  In  the  last  several  decades, 
the  addition  of  thiamine,  riboflavin, 
niacin,  and  of  iron  to  wheat  flour, 
macaroni  and  noodle  products,  farina, 
rice,  cornmeal,  and  corn  grits  has 
been  gradually  introduced  as  a  legally 
required  procedure  in  a  large  number 
of  States.  Besides  these  four  required 
enrichment  ingredients,  enriched  flour 
and  bread  may  contain  two  optional 
ingredients,  calcium  and  vitamin  D. 

A  food  may  be  considered  fortified 
when  one  or  more  ingredients  have 
been  added  to  provide  certain  nutri- 
ents that  may  or  may  not  be  present 
naturally  in  foods.  For  example,  since 
milk  in  its  natural  state  does  not 
contain  vitamin  D,  addition  of  the 
vitamin  makes  milk  a  fortified  food. 
Today,  both  enrichment  and  fortifica- 
tion have  become  accepted  routine 
steps  in  the  manufacture  of  certain 
staple  foods,  and  they  contribute  con- 
siderably to  the  nutritional  welfare  of 
our  population. 

What  may  start  as  mere  enrichment 
may  become  modified  to  a  combina- 
tion of  enrichment  and  fortification. 
Flour  is  a  good  example  where  enrich- 
ment was  not  limited  to  restoring 
previous  natural  values. 

In  setting  legal  requirements  for 
enrichment  of  bread,  human  needs  and 
the  general  dietary  situation  with 
respect  to  the  nutrients  involved  were 
taken  into  consideration. 

The  Food  and  Drug  Administration, 
an  agency  within  the  Department  of 
Health,  Education,  and  Welfare,  is 
responsible  for  administering  the  Food, 
Drug,  and  Cosmetic  Act,  which  also 
provides  for  the  issuance  of  standards 
for  food  products,  including  bread. 
Enrichment  of  white  bread  began  on  a 

216 


voluntary  basis  in  1941  and  was  made 
mandatory  for  all  bakery  white  breads 
and  rolls  from  1943  to  1946.  When 
this  war  measure  was  rescinded  in 
October  of  1946,  more  than  half  the 
States  continued  to  require  enrich- 
ment, and  some  processors  and  bakers 
continued  to  enrich  their  products  on 
a  voluntary  basis. 

Standards  for  bread  and  flour 
shipped  in  interstate  commerce  and 
labeled  as  enriched  became  effective 
August  13,  1952.  Bread  or  flour  identi- 
fied as  enriched  must  contain  amounts 
of  the  four  required  enrichment  in- 
gredients (thiamine,  riboflavin,  niacin, 
and  iron)  in  each  pound  of  bread  or 
flour  as  are  written  in  the  FDA 
regulations.  Calcium  and  vitamin  D 
are  optional  enrichment  ingredients 
that  may  also  be  added  to  bread  or 
to  flour. 

Food  and  drug  inspectors  maintain 
surveillance  over  the  storage  and 
transportation  of  grain  in  interstate 
commerce  as  well  as  in  the  flour  mill 
to  assure  that  adequate  sanitation 
practices — and  other  safeguards — are 
followed.  Flour  labeled  as  "enriched" 
must  contain  the  specified  amounts  of 
vitamins  and  minerals.  FDA  checks 
both  by  inspection  and  analysis  to  see 
that  adequate  amounts  are  present. 

At  the  bakery,  the  FDA  inspector 
checks  the  plant's  storage  areas,  pro- 
duction line,  equipment  and  facilities, 
and  sanitation  practices  for  evidence 
of  conditions  that  may  result  in  con- 
tamination. Besides  visual  examination, 
he  takes  samples  of  materials,  ingredi- 
ents, and  in-line  finished  products  to 
be  analyzed.  In  the  laboratory,  the 
samples  are  checked  for  filth  or 
contamination. 

Most  flours  and  bakeries  come  under 
the  jurisdiction  of  State  and  local 
authorities.  But  the  Federal  Food, 
Drug,  and  Cosmetic  Act  of  1938 
provided  that  foods  shipped  across 
State  lines  must  be  free  from  filth  and 
must  not  be  prepared  or  held  under 
unsanitary  conditions  that  cause  them 
to  become  contaminated.  Products  in 
violation  of  this  law  should  be  reported 
to  the  nearest  FDA  office  or,  if  pro- 


duced  in  a  local  bakery,  to  the  local 
health  department. 

In  general,  manufacturers  are  not 
required  to  state  the  ingredients  on 
the  label  for  standardized  foods,  ex- 
cept that  the  presence  of  any  artificial 
flavoring,  artificial  coloring,  or  chem- 
ical preservative  must  be  declared. 
The  common  or  usual  name  on  the 
bread  or  flour  is  in  effect  a  statement 
by  the  manufacturer  that  the  com- 
position of  his  product  will  be  what  the 
consumer  expects.  It  is  therefore  not 
ordinarily  necessary  for  the  label  to 
state  all  the  ingredients.  When  op- 
tional ingredients,  such  as  bleaching 
agents,  are  used  in  flour,  the  label 
must  state  the  word  "bleached." 

Label  information  must  be  con- 
spicuously displayed  and  easy  to 
understand.  The  label  must  contain 
the  name  and  address  of  the  man- 
ufacturer or  distributor  and  an  ac- 
curate statement  of  the  amount  of 
food  in  the  package.  The  enrichment 
statement  must  also  be  included. 

A  nonstandardized  bread  product 
must  list  ingredients  in  order  of  pre- 
dominance by  weight  to  avoid  con- 
sumer deception.  All  other  information 
required  for  the  standardized  product 
is  required  for  the  nonstandardized 
food. 

On  the  label  of  a  loaf  of  bread  you 
have  probably  seen  the  words  "cal- 
cium and  sodium  propionate  added 
to  retard  spoilage."  The  propionates 
have  the  ability  of  keeping  bread  from 
becoming  moldy  in  the  store  or  in 
your  breadbox  at  home. 

Sodium  diacetate  and  lactic  acid 
are  also  used  in  bread  as  mold  or  rope 
inhibitors.  Rope  is  a  bacterial  infection 
that  sometimes  occurs  in  breads  in  hot 
and  humid  weather.  It  is  identified 
by  a  strange  odor  resembling  overripe 
pineapple  or  strawberries,  by  dis- 
colored crumb,  and  by  a  sticky  and 
gummy  consistency  of  the  interior  of 
the  loaf.  The  rope  bacteria  is  in  the 
soil  and  in  dust  and  can  readily  be 
transmitted  to  the  dough.  It  is  easy 
to  understand  why  equipment  must 
be  scrupulously  clean  and  a  rope 
inhibitor  must  be  used.  The  FDA  has 


the  responsibility  of  approving  food 
additives  as  safe  before  they  can  be 
used  in  a  food. 

One  should  not  buy  cereal  grain 
products  by  the  size  of  package  be- 
cause this  can  be  misleading.  These 
products  should  be  bought  by  weight. 
The  cost  may  be  determined  by 
figuring  the  cost  per  ounce  and  the 
number  of  servings  per  package.  Total 
cost  of  the  contents  of  the  package 
divided  by  the  weight  in  ounces  will 
give  the  cost  per  ounce. 

Baked  foods  prepared  at  home  are 
usually  less  expensive  than  those  pur- 
chased ready  to  eat.  Keep  in  mind 
that  in  the  price  of  prepared  products, 
you  are  paying  for  each  step  that  is 
completed  for  you.  However,  when 
time  is  a  precious  element,  sometimes 
it  is  more  economical  to  buy  prepared 
products  rather  than  have  to  do  the 
work  at  home. 

Day-old  bread  is  less  expensive  and 
just  as  nourishing  as  fresh  bread,  so 
take  advantage  of  the  day-old  sales. 
Many  consumers  who  have  freezers 
may  want  to  buy  in  quantity  and 
freeze  the  products.  This  can  mean  a 
saving.  Many  times  prepared  products 
are  on  sale.  If  you  have  storage  space 
in  your  refrigerator,  these  also  are 
good  buys. 

Flours  and  meals  are  attractive  to 
insect  pests.  This  contamination  can 
sometimes  result  from  unsatisfactory 
storage  conditions.  To  sidestep  this 
problem,  flour  and  meal  should  be 
stored  in  tightly  covered  containers  in 
a  cool,  dry  area.  Flour  held  at  high 
temperatures  may  become  unusable. 
The  flour  container  should  always  be 
cleaned  thoroughly  before  a  new 
supply  is  added. 

Whole  wheat  products  become  ran- 
cid more  quickly  and  are  more  difficult 
to  store.  Frozen  baked  products  should 
be  kept  in  the  freezer  at  0°  F.  or 
lower.  Ready  baked  products  can  be 
frozen  at  the  same  temperature  if 
wrapped  and  sealed  properly. 

Ready  baked  products  also  can  be 
kept  in  the  refrigerator  if  wrapped 
well.  Refrigeration  retards  mold. 
Bread  will  become  a  little  firmer  in 

217 


texture  but  its  food  value  does  not 
change.  Breads  that  have  been  in  the 
refrigerator  can  be  freshened  up  by 
wrapping  in  aluminum  foil  and  plac- 
ing in  a  moderate  oven  for  10  to 
12  minutes.  Serve  quickly. 

Ready  baked  products  can  be  kept 
in  a  breadbox,  but  keep  in  mind  that 
bread  picks  up  odors  and  it  molds 
quickly,  particularly  in  hot  weather. 
The  breadbox  should  be  kept  clean 
and  dry. 

Mixes  can  be  stored  on  the  kitchen 
shelf — but  not  in  extremely  warm 
temperatures.  Ingredients  in  mixes 
deteriorate  with  storage.  Depending 
on  the  ingredients,  shelf  life  may  be 
as  long  as  a  year. 

Breads  that  have  not  been  eaten 
when  fresh  need  not  be  thrown  away. 
They  can  be  put  to  many  uses. 
Biscuits,  yeast  rolls,  bread,  and  muffins 
may  be  dried  and  ground  to  make 
dressings  or  meat  fillings,  for  breading 
or  topping  in  meats,  poultry,  fish,  or 
vegetable  dishes.  In  a  container  with 
a  tight-fitting  lid,  the  ground  bread 
can  be  stored  in  the  refrigerator  for 
later  use.  Breads  that  contain  fruit, 
nuts,  or  sugar  can  be  used  to  great 
advantage  in  bread  puddings. 

Freezing  is  an  excellent  way  of  keep- 
ing foods.  It  retains  freshness  of  the 
product.  But  don't  expect  anything 
better  than  what  you  have  put  in. 
Freezing  will  not  enhance  the  flavor 
or  texture.  Freeze  baked  products 
the  day  they  are  baked. 

It  is  important  in  freezing  to  have 
vapor-  and  moisture-proof,  odorless, 
and  tasteless  materials  in  which  to 
wrap  the  products.  These  materials 
should  be  durable  but  easy  to  handle. 
Plastic  bags,  heavy-duty  aluminum 
foil,  or  wax-  or  plastic-coated  paper 
are  some  of  the  popular  materials 
which  are  used  in  freezing.  Bread 
products  should  be  thoroughly  cooled 
before  freezing. 

Storage  of  bread  should  not  exceed 
3  months.  Thaw  breads  at  room 
temperature  in  the  freezer  container. 
It  may  take  1  to  3  hours.  Rolls  or 
muffins  can  be  thawed  at  room  tem- 
perature or  placed  unwrapped  on  a 

218 


baking  sheet  and  heated  in  the  oven  at 
350°  F.  for  15  to  30  minutes. 

Cakes  with  7-minute  frosting  or 
boiled  frosting  should  not  be  frozen. 
They  tend  to  break  down  and  become 
sticky.  Unfrosted  cakes  stored  more 
than  1  to  2  months  are  liable  to  lose 
some  quality.  Fruitcakes  keep  well 
for  at  least  1  year  in  a  freezer. 

Cakes  should  also  be  thoroughly 
cooled  before  freezing.  Layer  cakes 
may  be  stacked  if  a  sheet  of  wax  paper 
or  its  equivalent  is  placed  between 
them  before  wrapping.  I  find  that  by 
taking  one  layer  from  the  stack  and 
cutting  it  in  half  and  frosting  it  I  have 
one  half  of  a  two-layer  cake. 

Frosted  cakes  should  be  frozen 
without  being  wrapped  until  frosting 
is  frozen.  Placing  these  cakes  in  a 
cardboard  box  is  almost  a  must.  This 
keeps  the  frosting  from  chipping  or 
being  smashed. 

Thaw  unfrosted  cakes  in  freezer 
wrapping.  Frosted  cakes  should  be 
thawed  without  wrapping  to  prevent 
stickiness. 

Cookies  will  keep  about  6  months, 
baked  or  unbaked.  Thoroughly  cool 
baked  cookies  before  freezing  them. 
They  can  be  stored  in  plastic  bags  or 
in  sheet  wrapping.  Cookies  thaw  very 
quickly. 

Most  kinds  of  pies  can  be  frozen, 
with  the  exception  of  custard.  Cream 
pies  can  be  frozen,  but  if  your  success 
isn't  any  better  than  mine,  I  would  not 
recommend  it. 

Pie  crust  may  be  frozen  in  bulk, 
rolled  in  circles,  or  fitted  and  fluted 
in  a  pie  pan.  Circles  should  be  stacked 
with  two  pieces  of  wax  paper  between 
layers  so  one  may  be  removed  without 
thawing  the  whole  batch.  The  stack 
should  be  placed  on  a  piece  of  card- 
board, wrapped,  sealed,  and  dated. 
Neither  baked  nor  unbaked  pie  shells 
need  thawing.  Place  pie  crust  in  oven 
and  bake  as  recipe  directs.  The  top  of 
double  crust  unbaked  pie  should  not 
be  cut  before  freezing. 

When  the  term  bread  is  used,  it 
generally  refers  to  quick  breads  or 
to  yeast-leavened  bread  unless  other- 
wise stated. 


Orange  crumble  pumpkin  pie. 


Quick  breads  are  what  the  name 
implies.  They  are  relatively  easy  to 
make  as  well  as  being  quick.  Examples 
of  quick  breads  are  muffins,  biscuits, 
waffles,  pancakes,  and  coffeecakes. 
They  are  leavened  with  baking  pow- 
der, soda,  eggs,  and  steam. 

There  are  three  types  of  quick 
bread  mixtures: 

•  Drop  batter,  such  as  is  in  a  drop 
biscuit  or  muffins. 

•  Pour  batter,  as  a  pancake  or  waffle 
batter. 

•  Dough,   such   as   rolled    biscuits   or 
dumplings. 

Quick  breads  should  not  be  over- 
mixed.  Overmixing  develops  gluten 
and  causes  tunnels  and  coarseness  in 


the  finished  product.  A  good  recipe 
will  give  the  proper  method  for  mix- 
ing. Quick  breads  always  contain 
flour,  liquid,  fat,  and  leavening. 
They  may  also  contain  sugar,  eggs, 
and  flavoring.  All-purpose  (or  family 
flour)  is  normally  used  for  best 
results.  If  self-rising  flour  is  used,  read 
and  follow  directions  on  the  package. 

The  difference  between  quick  breads 
and  yeast  breads  is  the  leavening 
agent.  Quick  breads  are  normally 
served  hot,  while  yeast  breads  may 
be  served  hot  or  cold.  Coffeecake  and 
donuts  are  leavened  breads  but  con- 
tain more  sugar  and  fat  and  are 
considered  good  breakfast  breads. 

Each  ingredient  is  an  essential  part 
of  the  finished  product. 

Flour  is  very  basic  in  breadmaking 

219 


because  it  provides  the  gluten  neces- 
sary in  many  baked  products.  Both 
hard  and  soft  wheat  flours  make  good 
yeast  bread  if  used  properly.  The  flour 
that's  most  used  in  breadmaking  by 
the  homemakcr  is  all  purpose. 

Liquids  are  important  to  bind  and 
mix  the  ingredients  together.  Water 
and  milk  are  used  in  breadmaking. 
When  water  is  used,  the  flavor  of  the 
wheat  predominates.  Italian  and 
French  breads  and  hard  rolls  are  made 
with  water. 


Steam — In  all  batters  and  doughs,  a 
certain  amount  of  liquid  is  released  to 
help  leaven  the  mixture.  In  products 
where  steam  is  the  only  form  of  leaven- 
ing, the  oven  temperature  must  be 
hot  to  raise  the  temperature  of  the 
product  to  the  boiling  point  quickly. 
Popovers  and  cream  puffs  are  exam- 
ples. Characteristic  of  these  products 
are  large  central  cavities. 

Baking  soda,  baking  powder,  and 
yeast  are  used  to  produce  carbon  di- 
oxide in  breadmaking. 


Pancakes,  a  pour  batter  product,  make  delicious  and  quick  breakfast  food. 


Milk  enhances  the  food  value  of  the 
bread.  Liquid  or  powdered  skim  milk 
can  be  used  successfully  in  breadmak- 
ing. One-third  cup  of  the  skim  milk 
powder  to  a  pound  of  flour  is  a  good 
proportion.  Diluted  evaporated  milk 
is  suitable  and  docs  not  need  to  be 
boiled.  If  fluid  milk  is  used,  it  should 
be  boiled  first.  Condensed  milk  is 
sometimes  an  ingredient  for  making 
sweet  breads. 

A  leavening  agent  is  a  substance 
used  in  flour  mixtures  which  makes  the 
cooked  product  porous  or  light.  There 
are  three  leavening  agents:  Air,  steam, 
and  carbon  dioxide. 

Air  can  be  incorporated  into  a  prod- 
uct several  ways:  (a)  By  using  beaten 
egg  whites,  (b)  by  creaming  fat  and 
sugar,  and  (c)  by  repeated  sifting  of 
the  flour  or  by  beating  the  mixture. 

220 


Baking  soda  used  with  an  acid  is 
simple  and  can  be  controlled  easily. 
It  does  not  develop  flavor  in  the  mix- 
ture as  fermentation  methods  do. 
Baking  soda,  like  baking  powder,  can 
leave  a  residue  and  in  some  cases  may 
be  undesirable.  Sour  milk  and  butter- 
milk are  the  acid-containing  liquids 
used  in  this  method.  When  fruit  juice 
is  an  ingredient  of  a  batter  or  dough, 
soda  may  be  used  to  produce  carbon 
dioxide.  Soda  and  acid  of  fruit  cut 
into  cakes  and  cookies  will  combine 
to  produce  carbon  dioxide. 

All  baking  powders  are  combina- 
tions of  an  acid  powder  and  baking 
soda  in  such  proportion  to  form  a 
salt.  There  are  three  kinds  of  baking 
powders:  (1)  Tartrate,  (2)  phosphate 
powders,  and  (3)  sodium  aluminum 
sulphate,  often  abbreviated  as  S.A.S. 


The  tartrate  and  the  phosphate  are 
single  acting  powders.  The  powders 
begin  action  as  soon  as  the  powder  is 
mixed  with  the  liquid.  S.A.S.  is  a 
double  acting  powder;  some  action  is 
begun  when  mixed  with  liquid  and 
some  takes  place  at  oven  temperature. 
Baking  powder  should  be  kept  in 
tighdy  closed  containers. 

Yeast  also  produces  carbon  dioxide 
gas  which  aerates  the  dough  and  the 
final  product  and  aids  in  its  maturing 
or  conditioning.  It  is  available  in  moist 
or  compressed  yeast  and  as  dry  yeast. 
Dry  yeast  comes  in  foil  packages  and 
needs  no  refrigeration.  Compressed 
yeast  should  always  be  stored  in  a  cool 
place,  preferably  in  a  cool  room  or  in 
the  refrigerator  at  42°  F.  If  the  tem- 
perature is  lower,  the  yeast  will  keep 
for  a  longer  period.  If  the  yeast  is 
frozen  it  will  keep  up  to  3  months, 
after  which  there  is  a  falling  off  in 
gas-producing  power.  Once  yeast  has 
been  taken  from  the  freezer  and  al- 
lowed to  come  up  to  a  higher  temper- 
ature, it  should  not  be  refrozen. 

The  primary  function  of  salt  in  bread 
is  to  give  flavor.  Salt  gives  stability  to 
the  gluten  to  enable  it  to  stretch  with- 
out breaking  as  the  gas  expands.  Salt 
prevents  yeast  from  working  too  fast. 
For  this  reason  some  homemakers  like 
to  use  more  salt  in  the  summer  since  the 
heat  tends  to  speed  up  fermentation. 

Sugar  is  not  necessary  in  bread- 
making  from  the  standpoint  of  fer- 
mentation. But  sugar  does  add  flavor, 
improve  texture,  and  increase  brown- 
ing potential.  Sugar  is  a  quick  food  for 
yeast,  and  occasionally  it  is  added  in 
amounts  just  to  start  yeast  activity. 

Fat  and  oil  in  bread  improve  flavor, 
add  richness,  and  make  it  tender.  They 
also  help  to  keep  bread  moist. 

Eggs  provide  a  more  delicate  texture 
to  breads  as  well  as  adding  flavor. 
However,  they  are  not  essential  in 
breadmaking. 

Fancy  breads  may  contain  nuts, 
fruits,  spices,  and  other  flavorings. 

One  of  the  most  vital  steps  in  baking 
is  measuring.  Measuring  is  important 
in  achieving  a  standard  product  each 
time  it  is  made.  After  you  select  a 


recipe,  do  not  alter  the  ingredients 
unless  you  know  what  the  results  will 
be,  and  you  desire  them. 

Measuring  equipment  is  inexpen- 
sive. Here  is  the  basic  equipment  you 
should  have:  (1)  A  nest  of  measuring 
cups  including  ){  cup,  %  cup,  ){  cup, 
and  1  cup  measure.  Also  available  is 
a  1-cup  and  2-cup  graduated  measur- 
ing cup  with  its  capacity  measure  at 
the  rim.  (2)  A  set  of  measuring  spoons 
including  a  ){  teaspoon,  %  teaspoon, 
1  teaspoon,  and  a  tablespoon  measure. 
(3)  A  measuring  cup  with  the  1-cup 
line  below  the  rim  of  the  cup  is  good 
for  measuring  liquid  ingredients.  (4) 
A  flour  sifter.  (5)  A  spatula  to  level 
off  dry  ingredients.  A  spatula  looks 
like  a  knife  but  is  straight  on  both 
sides  and  does  not  have  a  point.  (6) 
A  rubber  scraper,  which  has  many 
functions.  It  can  be  used  to  retrieve 
all  the  fat  left  in  a  measuring  cup  or 
to  scrape  batter  from  a  bowl  in  mixing 
and  when  putting  into  a  pan. 

Recipes  may  call  for  sifted  or  un- 
sifted flour.  Sifted  flour  will  be  lighter 
in  weight  per  cup,  and  substitution 
of  sifted  for  unsifted  flour  is  not 
advisable.  Flour  should  be  spooned 
lightly  into  a  measuring  cup  and  then 
leveled  off  with  a  spatula.  Never  shake 
the  cup  to  level  off  the  flour. 

Brown  sugar  should  be  packed 
firmly  in  the  cup.  It  should  hold  its 
shape  when  removed  from  the  cup. 

Sometimes  brown  sugar  becomes 
lumpy.  Sifting  in  a  somewhat  coarse 
sieve  will  help  remove  lumps. 

Other  sugars  can  be  spooned  into  a 
cup,  heaping  slightly,  and  leveled  off 
with  a  spatula.  Should  there  be  lumps, 
sift  before  measuring. 

When  measuring  soda,  baking  pow- 
der, salt,  and  spices,  the  measuring 
spoon  may  be  dipped  into  the  con- 
tainer of  the  product  and  leveled  off 
with  a  spatula.  Some  containers  have 
paper  covers  that  can  be  cut  and  used 
to  level  off  the  product. 

Liquids  should  be  measured  in  a 
liquid  type  measuring  cup  with  the 
rim  above  the  cup  marker.  This  gives 
the  opportunity  to  get  the  exact 
measure  without  spilling. 

221 


Above,  apple  crown  pound  cake.  Right, 
the  basic  measuring  equipment  for 
baking:  Liquid  measuring  cup,  sifter, 
nest  of  measuring  cups,  measuring 
spoons,  spatula,  and  rubber  scraper. 


222 


In  measuring  a  spoonful  of  liquid 
like  vanilla  or  other  flavoring,  measure 
over  an  empty  dish  and  not  over  other 
ingredients. 

Butter,  margarine,  and  shortening 
can  be  spooned  from  the  container 
and  packed  firmly  into  a  graduated  or 
nest  cup,  leveling  off  with  the  rim. 

The  recipe  you  have  selected  will, 
as  a  general  rule,  give  the  size  pan  to 
use.  Pans  should  be  prepared  before 
the  mixture  is  begun.  Should  you  use 
an  oven  glass  pan  instead  of  another 
type,  lower  your  oven  temperature 
25°  F.  since  the  product  may  brown 
too  quickly  at  the  higher  temperature. 

Pans  used  for  sponge  or  foam  type 
cakes  should  not  be  greased  or  treated. 
However,  jelly  and  cake  roll  cakepans 
are  the  exceptions  and  they  should  be 
lined  with  greased  paper. 

Pans  used  in  shortening-type  cakes 
should  be  greased  and  floured  or  lined 
with  wax  paper.  To  flour  a  greased 
pan,  put  approximately  a  spoonful  of 
flour  in  pan  and  shake  until  pan  is 
covered.  Tap  gently  to  remove  excess. 

The  oven  should  always  be  pre- 
heated. Racks  should  be  level  and 
spaced  well.  In  placing  pans  in  the 
oven,  keep  in  mind  that  the  heat  is  the 
most  even  in  the  middle  of  the  oven. 

The  two  methods  of  combining 
ingredients  in  yeast  breads  are:  The 
straight  dough  and  the  sponge  methods. 

In  the  straight  dough  method,  the 
procedure  should  be  (a)  combining 
and  mixing  the  ingredients ;  (b)  knead- 
ing the  dough — the  dough  should  be 
kneaded  until  it  is  satiny  (but  batter 
doughs  do  not  need  this  step.  This 
dough  is  soft  enough  to  form  gluten 
by  beating  with  spoon  or  mixer.) ; 
(c)  allowing  the  dough  to  rise  until 
dough  has  doubled  in  bulk;  (d)  shap- 
ing the  loaves  or  rolls;  (e)  allowing 
them  to  rise  again;  and  (f)  baking  at 
specified  temperature  and  time. 

In  the  sponge  method  of  combining 
ingredients,  there  are  two  mixings. 
The  liquid  and  yeast  are  combined, 
and  just  enough  flour  is  added  to  make 
a  thick  batter.  This  mixture  must  be 
put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  It  will 
become  light  or  bubbly.  The  rest  of 


the  flour,  sugar,  fat,  and  salt  are 
added  to  the  batter  to  make  a  dough 
that  can  be  kneaded.  The  remainder 
of  the  procedure  is  like  the  straight 
dough  method.  In  this  method,  less 
yeast  is  needed  because  of  the  length 
of  time  it  has  to  grow.  Also,  flavor  of 
bread  made  through  this  method  is 
different  but  some  prefer  it. 

The  three  general  methods  for 
combining  ingredients  for  cakebaking 
are  the  muffin  method,  conventional 
method,  and  new  speed  method. 

•  Muffin  Method — This  is  the  method 
generally  used  in  making  muffins  and 
is  perhaps  the  simplest  method.  The 
three  main  steps  are:  (1)  Sift  dry  in- 
gredients together — flour,  leavening, 
sugar,  and  salt  (omit  leavening  and 
salt  if  self-rising  flour  is  used).  (2) 
Combine  all  the  liquid  ingredients — 
milk,  beaten  eggs,  melted  fat,  and 
flavoring.  (3)  Add  liquid  to  dry  in- 
gredients. Stir  until  mixed  well. 

•  Conventional  Method — This  is  con- 
sidered the  old-fashioned  method  of 
cake  mixing.  The  procedures  are:  (1) 
Cream  fat  until  light  and  fluffy.  (2) 
Add  sugar  gradually  and  continue 
creaming  until  the  two  are  blended 
well.  (3)  Add  egg  or  egg  yolks  and 
beat  until  they  are  blended  well  with 
fat  and  sugar.  (4)  Sift  dry  ingredients 
together.  (5)  Add  the  flour  mixture 
alternately  with  milk  and  flavoring, 
beginning  and  ending  with  the  flour. 
(6)  Fold  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  into 
the  well-mixed  batter. 

•  New  Speed  Method — This  method 
is  known  by  several  names,  including 
baker's  modified  method  or  the  one- 
bowl  method.  The  steps  in  this  method 
are:  (1)  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  to- 
gether in  bowl.  (2)  Add  the  fat,  milk, 
and  flavoring.  (3)  Beat  vigorously  for 
2  minutes  by  hand  (150  strokes  per 
minute)  or  2  minutes  in  the  electric 
mixer.  (4)  Add  the  unbeaten  eggs  and 
beat  for  another  2  minutes.  This 
method  is  extremely  easy  to  use  with 
an  electric  mixer.  Texture  of  the  cakes 
made  by  the  speed  method  is  very 
fine.  The  grain  is  finer  and  it  may  be 
described  as  "velvety"  in  contrast  to 

223 


the  feathery  texture  which  is  the  aim 
of  the  conventional  method. 

To  test  cake  for  doneness,  touch  the 
top  of  the  cake  in  the  center  lightly. 
If  the  indentation  springs  back,  the 
cake  is  done;  if  the  impression  remains, 
the  cake  is  not  done.  Another  test  is 
to  insert  a  toothpick  in  the  center  of 
the  cake.  If  the  toothpick  comes  out 
clean,  the  cake  is  done.  After  baking, 
the  cake  should  be  removed  from  the 
oven  to  prevent  dryness. 

Icing  helps  to  keep  the  cake  moist  as 
well  as  increasing  attractiveness  and 
palatability. 

Plain  pastry  is  made  from  flour, 
shortening,  salt,  and  liquid.  The  fat 
is  cut  into  the  ingredients  in  pieces, 
or  cut  and  rubbed  in  until  mixture 
looks  like  fine  breadcrumbs.  Then  the 
liquid  is  blended  gradually  either 
into  all  the  mixture  with  a  minimum 
of  mixing,  or  into  a  part  of  the  mix- 
ture. This  mixture  is  blended  in  turn 
with  the  remaining  fat  and  flour.  If 
a  liquid  fat  is  used,  it  is  added  to 
the  ingredients  with  the  other  liquid. 
Soft  flours  such  as  pastry  and  cake 
flours  give  a  more  delicate  pastry 
than  stronger  all-purpose  flour. 

After  the  dough  is  mixed,  it  is 
rolled  with  a  rolling  pin  with  gentle 
pressure,  lifting  it  with  fingers  only 
slightly,  and  then  placed  in  position 
in  pie  tin  with  care  to  avoid  stretching. 
Pastry  which  is  to  be  baked  as  a 
single  shell  can  be  put  on  outside  of 
the  piepan  and  pricked  with  a  fork 
before  baking  so  steam  can  escape. 

Plain  and  short-crust  pastries  can 
be  modified  by  the  addition  of  egg 
yolk,  sugar,  and  other  ingredients — 
such  as  nuts  or  dried  fruit. 

YEAST  ROLLS 

18  to  24  rolls 

i&cup  hot  milk 

}i  cup  shortening  or  oil 

}i  cup  sugar 

1%  teaspoons  salt 

1  egg 

%  cup  water 

1  package  active  dry  yeast 

About  4  cups  flour 

224 


Mix  milk,  fat,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a 
large  mixing  bowl.  Cool  to  lukewarm. 

Stir  in  egg,  water,  and  yeast  until 
yeast  dissolves.  Add  2  cups  flour  and 
beat  until  smooth.  Gradually  stir  in 
more  flour  until  dough  leaves  sides  of 
the  bowl. 

Turn  dough  onto  lightly  floured 
surface  and  knead  until  smooth  and 
elastic. 

Place  in  a  lightly  greased  bowl  and 
turn  over  once  to  grease  upper  side  of 
dough.  Cover  and  let  rise  in  a  warm 
place  (80°  to  85°  F.)  until  almost  dou- 
ble in  bulk,  for  1  to  \){  hours.  Dough 
should  rise  until  a  light  touch  leaves  a 
slight  depression.  Press  the  dough 
down  into  the  bowl  in  order  to  remove 
air  bubbles. 

To  make  plain  rolls,  divide  dough 
into  small  pieces  and  roll  into  balls 
about  \){  inches  in  diameter.  Place  in 
a  shallow  greased  pan  with  the  sides 
touching — or  1  inch  apart  if  you  prefer 
crusty  sides. 

Cover  loosely  and  let  rise  in  a  warm 
place  until  double  in  bulk,  45  minutes 
to  1  hour. 

Bake  at  400°  F.,  15  to  20  minutes 
until  browned. 

Brush  rolls  with  melted  butter  or 
margarine  after  removing  them  from 
the  oven,  if  desired. 

BISCUITS 

12  biscuits 

2  cups  unsifted  flour 

1  tablespoon  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Yi  cup  shortening 

About  %,  cup  milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients  thoroughly. 
Mix  in  fat  only  until  the  mixture  is 
crumbly. 

Add  most  of  the  milk  and  stir  to 
mix.  Add  more  milk  as  needed  to 
make  a  dough  that  is  soft  but  not  too 
sticky  to  knead.  Knead  dough  gently 
on  a  lightly  floured  surface  10  to  12 
times.  Form  into  a  ball. 

Pat  or  roll  dough  to  %-  to  %-inch 
thickness.  Cut  with  a  floured  biscuit 
cutter  or  cut  into  squares  with  a  knife. 
Place  on  an  ungreased  baking  sheet — 


an  inch  apart  for  crusty  biscuits; 
together  for  softer  biscuits. 

Bake  at  450°  F.,  12  to  15  minutes,  or 
until  golden  brown. 

For  cheese  biscuits,  combine  %  cup 
shredded  sharp  or  extra  sharp  cheese 
with  the  dry  ingredients  before  adding 
fat. 

MUFFINS 

12  muffins 

legg 

1  cup  milk 

y3  cup  oil  or  melted  shortening 

2  cups  unsifted  flour 

1  tablespoon  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  salt 
H  cup  sugar 

Beat  egg  until  yolk  and  white  are 
well  blended.  Blend  in  milk  and  fat. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly. 
Add  liquid  and  stir  until  dry  ingre- 
dients are  barely  moistened.  Do  not 
overmix.  Batter  should  be  lumpy. 

Fill  greased  muffin  tins  half  full  of 
batter.  Bake  at  400°  F.,  20  to  25 
minutes  until  browned. 

For  blueberry  muffins  increase  sugar 
to  ){  cup.  Lighdy  blend  in  Y4  cup 
fresh  or  drained  canned  blueberries 
when  combining  liquid  and  dry  ingre- 
dients. Do  not  crush  berries. 

PASTRY 

8-  or  9-inch  pastry  shell 

1  cup  unsifted  flour 

}i  teaspoon  salt 

y3  cup  shortening 

About  2  tablespoons  cold  water 

Mix  flour  and  salt  thoroughly.  Mix 
in  fat  only  until  mixture  is  crumbly. 

Add  a  little  water  at  a  time,  blend- 
ing lighdy.  Dough  should  be  just 
moist  enough  to  cling  together  when 
pressed. 

Shape  dough  into  a  ball.  Roll  out  on 
a  lighdy  floured  surface  or  between 
two  sheets  of  waxed  paper.  Fit  care- 


fully into  the  piepan.  Lift  edges  and 
smooth  out  air  bubbles.  For  baked 
pastry  shell,  trim  pastry,  leaving  about 
an  inch  around  the  edge.  Fold  edge 
under  and  shape  into  an  upright  rim. 
Prick  bottom  and  sides  well  with  a 
fork.  Bake  at  450°  F.  (very  hot  oven), 
for  12  to  15  minutes  or  until  the  pastry 
shell  is  golden  brown. 

Variation 

Two-crust  pie — Double  the  recipe. 
Form  the  dough  into  two  balls,  one 
slighdy  larger  than  the  other.  Roll  out 
the  larger  ball  of  dough  and  fit  into 
piepan.  Roll  out  remaining  dough  for 
top  crust;  make  several  slits  in  crust 
to  let  steam  escape  during  baking. 
Put  filling  into  pastry-lined  pan.  Top 
with  second  crust.  Fold  edges  of  crusts 
under  and  press  together  to  seal.  Bake 
as  directed  in  pie  recipe. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Two  8-inch  layers 

V/i  cups  unsifted  cake  flour 

V/3  cups  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

%  cup  softened  butter  or  margarine 

1  cup  buttermilk  or  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  eggs 

2  ounces  (2  squares)  unsweetened  choc- 
olate, melted,  cooled 

Mix  dry  ingredients  well.  Add  fat 
and  half  of  the  milk;  beat  until  creamy. 
Mix  in  remaining  milk,  vanilla,  and 
eggs.  Add  chocolate;  then  beat  until 
creamy. 

Pour  into  two  8-inch  greased  and 
floured  layer  cakepans.  Bake  at  350°  F., 
30  to  35  minutes  or  until  the  cake's 
surface  springs  back  when  touched 
lighdy.  Cool  cake  for  a  few  minutes 
before  removing  from  the  pans.  When 
cool,  frost  as  desired. 

Note:  For  a  loaf  cake,  use  a  greased 
and  floured  9-  by  12-inch  cakepan. 
Bake  about  40  minutes. 


225 


Lois  T.  Kilgore 


How  to  Avoid 
Confusion  in 
Fats  and  Oils 
Buying  or  Use 


The  housewife  is  often  confused  by  the 
many  edible  fats  on  market  shelves 
today.  If  you  purchase  and  prepare 
foods,  you're  faced  with  deciding  which 
of  these  many  fats  to  buy.  You  must 
keep  in  mind  the  many  uses  of  fats  and 
make  your  selection  according  to  your 
needs  and  food  budget.  You  probably 
need  a  fat  for  shortening  baked  prod- 
ucts and  this  may  also  be  the  same  fat 
you  use  for  frying.  If  you  become 
familiar  with  the  wide  array  of  fats 
and  their  characteristics  by  reading 
the  labels,  choosing  the  fat  that  meets 
your  needs  will  be  easier. 

Shortenings  are  edible  fats  used  to 
shorten  baked  goods.  A  baked  mixture 
of  flour  and  water  would  be  tough 
without  the  addition  of  proper  amounts 
of  fat  or  oil.  Fats  produce  tenderness 
by  surrounding  particles  of  starch  and 
strands  of  gluten.  In  this  way  the 
strands  of  gluten  are  kept  short;  hence, 
the  name  "shortening." 

Although  oils,  butter,  margarine, 
and  lard  may  all  be  used  as  shortening 
agents,  the  products  that  have  come 
to  be  known  as  shortenings  are  the 
vegetable  fats  or  animal  and  vegetable 
mixtures  that  are  plastic. 

This  means  they  are  soft  and  creamy 

226 


and  may  be  easily  molded  or  shaped. 

Shortening  as  a  food  product  is  an 
American  invention,  growing  out  of 
the  cotton-raising  industry.  The  first 
shortenings,  prepared  by  a  blending 
of  hard  fats  (edible  tallows)  and  soft 
fats  (cottonseed  oil),  were  called  com- 
pounds and  were  frankly  conceived 
and  marketed  as  substitutes  for  lard. 
In  the  beginning,  the  American  meat- 
packers  literally  controlled  the  short- 
ening industry,  for  they  controlled  the 
supply  of  hard  animal  fat  which  was 
an  essential  ingredient. 

Solid  fats  are  usually  of  animal  ori- 
gin and  are  composed  of  considerable 
amounts  of  saturated  fatty  acids  which 
contain  as  many  hydrogen  atoms  as 
the  carbon  chain  can  hold.  Fats  of 
vegetable  origin  are  usually  liquid  oils 
and  the  unsaturated  fatty  acids  are 
predominant.  These  may  be  monoun- 
saturated  with  one  reactive  unsatu- 
rated linkage  (double  bond)  which 
has  two  hydrogens  missing;  or  poly- 
unsaturated with  two  or  more  reactive 
unsaturated  linkages  (double  bonds) 
with  four,  six,  eight,  or  more  hydrogens 
missing.  {Food,  The  1959  Yearbook  of 
Agriculture,  pp.  76-77,  contains  an  ex- 
cellent discussion  on  structure.) 

Introduction  of  the  hydrogenation 
process  in  about  1910  made  the  manu- 
facturer of  vegetable  shortening  inde- 
pendent. The  hydrogenation  process 
adds  hydrogen  to  the  unsaturated  fatty 
acids,  reducing  their  degree  of  unsat- 
uration  and  transforming  them  to  the 
corresponding  saturated  fatty  acids. 
This  changes  the  liquid  oil  to  a  plastic 
fat,  and  makes  any  blending  with  an 
animal  fat  unnecessary. 

Since  about  1933,  further  changes 
in  the  method  of  manufacturing  hy- 
drogenated  shortenings  have  involved 
the  addition  of  mono-  and  di-glycerides. 
The  superior  emulsifying  properties  of 
fats  so  treated  cause  a  fine  dispersion 
of  the  fat  in  the  dough  or  cake  and 
allow  a  higher  ratio  of  sugar  to  flour. 

Lois  T.  Kilgore  is  Professor  of  Home  Economics, 
College  of  Agriculture,  Mississippi  State  Univer- 
sity. She  is  in  charge  of  the  Foods  and  Nutrition 
Laboratory  at  the  Mississippi  Agricultural  Experi- 
ment Station. 


These  shortenings  are  described  as 
"high  ratio"  or  emulsified.  They  have 
become  popular  for  use  in  cakes,  sweet 
yeast  doughs,  and  similar  products. 
The  shortenings  have  a  lowered  smoke 
point  and  are  less  desirable  for  frying. 

For  a  long  period  of  time  there  was 
an  approximate  parity  in  price  be- 
tween compound  shortening  and  lard, 
but  high  production  and  undesirable 
qualities  in  lard  caused  a  decrease  in 
its  price.  Until  recently,  the  lack  of 
uniformity  of  lard  and  some  of  its 
properties  such  as  odor,  flavor,  grainy 
texture,  low  smoke  point,  and  suscep- 
tibility to  rancidity  have  resulted  in  a 
greatly  reduced  usage  of  lard.  Many 
years  of  research  by  government  and 
industrial  laboratories  have  improved 
the  quality,  uniformity,  and  functional 
properties  of  lard. 

Shortenings  of  the  all-vegetable-oil 
variety  have  always  commanded  a 
price  above  the  compound  shortenings. 
Retail  prices  of  vegetable  oils  are  even 
higher  than  hydrogenated  shortenings. 

In  recent  years  shortening  products 
containing  lard  or  lard  and  beef  fat 
blends  have  been  refined,  stiffened  by 
hydrogenation,  fortified  with  an  anti- 
oxidant, deodorized,  and  in  some  cases 
superglycerinated  to  make  them  com- 
parable to  all-vegetable  hydrogenated 
shortenings.  From  1940  to  1963  the 
amount  of  lard  used  in  shortenings 
increased  35-fold. 

Commonly  used  food  fats  are  com- 
plicated mixtures  which  do  not  have 
a  sharp  melting  point  but  solidify  over 
a  wide  temperature  range.  This  fact 
is  demonstrated  when  oils  cloud  on 
refrigeration.  Many  vegetable  oils  are 
"winterized"  to  prevent  this,  par- 
ticularly salad  oils.  The  process  of 
winterizing  an  oil  consists  of  chilling 
it  to  a  temperature  of  40°  to  45°  F. 
and  removing  the  precipitated  solid 
crystals  by  filtration.  The  resulting 
oil  remains  clear  at  ordinary  refriger- 
ator temperatures. 

The  first  recognizable  deterioration 
in  fats,  such  as  lard,  oils,  and  short- 
ening, is  the  development  of  rancidity. 
This  is  an  oxidative  change  which  in 
vegetable  oils  is  inhibited  by  naturally 


occurring  antioxidants.  Since  animal 
fats  do  not  contain  natural  antioxi- 
dants to  protect  them,  it  is  necessary 
to  add  chemical  agents  to  delay  the 
onset  of  rancidity.  The  U.S.  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture  has  approved 
and  specified  the  amount  permitted 
for  about  a  dozen  antioxidants  that 
may  be  used  in  animal  fats. 

Shortenings,  whether  of  vegetable 
origin  or  mixtures,  keep  well  at  room 
temperature.  But  if  a  shortening  is 
kept  over  a  long  period,  it  might  be 
well  to  store  it  in  the  refrigerator. 
Allowing  it  to  return  to  room  tem- 
perature before  use  results  in  easier 
measuring  and  blending  and  also  in 
a  better  pastry. 

Only  shortenings  containing  animal 
fats  are  inspected  by  USDA.  A  system 
of  continuous  inspection  has  been 
developed  with  the  Federal  inspectors 
placed  in  each  plant  to  supervise  the 
handling  at  every  step.  Inspection  is 
concerned  with  facilities,  equipment, 
sanitation,  source  and  quality  of  raw 
materials,  acceptable  manufacturing 
practices,  laboratory  testing,  and  label- 
ing. Only  edible  fats  from  U.S.  in- 
spected and  passed  carcasses  may  be 
used  in  animal  fat  shortenings. 

When  you  see  the  familiar  round 
stamp  "U.S.  Inspected  and  Passed," 
you  know  that  the  label  is  truthful 
and  the  product  is  wholesome  and 
suitable  for  human  consumption. 

Standards  of  identity  define  what 
a  food  must  contain  to  be  called  by 
a  particular  name.  Congress  has  es- 
tablished a  standard  of  identity  for 
butter.  The  Food  and  Drug  Admin- 
istration has  adopted  standards  of 
identity  for  margarine  (oleomarga- 
rine), mayonnaise,  french  dressing, 
and  salad  dressing. 

Butter  must  contain  at  least  80 
percent  milk  fat,  and  nothing  may  be 
added  except  salt  and  coloring.  USDA 
has  set  up  standards  for  grading  butter 
based  on  flavor,  texture,  color,  and 
salt  content.  The  Federal  grading  of 
butter  is  not  compulsory,  but  the  U.S. 
grade  label  on  the  outside  carries  the 
assurance  that  the  butter  has  been 
tested  by  a  Government  grader. 

227 


Margarine  or  oleomargarine  is  a 
product  made  to  resemble  butter  in 
which  one  or  more  optional  fat  in- 
gredients are  used  along  with  or  in 
place  of  the  butterfat.  Margarine  was 
first  made  in  France  in  1870  when 
Napoleon  III  offered  a  prize  for  a 
butter  substitute.  Margarine,  like  but- 
ter, is  a  water-in-oil  emulsion  and 
must  contain  80  percent  fat.  In  making 
margarine,  the  melted  fat  is  agitated 
with  skim  milk  that  has  been  pasteur- 
ized and  which  may  have  been  cul- 
tured with  a  bacterial  starter. 

The  flavor  of  margarine  at  one  time 
depended  to  a  large  extent  upon  the 
treatment  of  the  milk.  Today,  flavor 
is  obtained  principally  by  adding 
flavoring  substances  permitted  under 
Federal  standards  of  identity.  Salt, 
preservatives,  emulsifiers,  vitamins  A 
and  D  may  be  used  as  additives.  The 
addition  of  15,000  units  of  vitamin  A 
per  pound  (which  is  the  average 
amount  found  in  butter),  although 
not  mandatory,  is  almost  universal. 
However,  the  only  way  to  be  sure  of 
the  content  of  margarine  is  to  read 
the  label,  since  Federal  regulations 
require  full  ingredient  disclosure. 

Suppose  someone  in  your  family  is 
on  a  diet  and  has  been  cautioned  to 
eat  more  polyunsaturated  fat  and  less 
saturated  fat.  What  does  the  manu- 
facturer's label  tell  you? 

The  manufacturer  must  list  the 
predominant  ingredient  first.  For  ex- 
ample, if  the  ingredients  are  listed  as 
"liquid  corn  oil,  partially-hydrogena- 
ted  soybean  oil,  water,  salt,  etc.,"  this 
means  the  buyer  may  expect  that 
there  is  more  of  polyunsaturated  corn 
oil  than  of  partially-saturated  soybean 
oil  in  that  margarine. 

Now  on  the  market  are  margarines 
significantly  reduced  in  calories.  These 
are  currently  very  plainly  marked  as 
imitation  margarine,  and  they  only 
contain  about  half  the  amount  of  fat 
that  real  margarine  must  contain. 
Consequently  the  calories  present  in 
imitation  margarine  are  about  half 
of  the  amount  found  in  margarine. 
Because  of  aeration,  whipped  mar- 
garine contains  only  about  two-thirds 

228 


of  the  calories  in  an  equal  volume  of 
plain  margarine. 

Within  the  past  10  years,  there  has 
been  a  continuing  increase  in  the  use 
of  margarine.  This  is  probably  owing 
to  the  fact  that  margarine  has  been 
substantially  improved  as  a  bread 
spread  and  that  the  retail  price  of 
butter  in  1968  was  about  three  times 
the  price  of  margarine. 

Deterioration  of  lards,  shortenings, 
and  salad  oils  (all  of  these  contain  no 
water)  is  almost  wholly  the  result  of 
oxidation  caused  by  the  combination 
with  oxygen  from  the  air.  Butter  and 
margarine  contain  water,  and  ran- 
cidity may  be  due  to  enzyme  action  or 
to  micro-organisms  that  break  down 
the  fat  and  water  into  glycerol  and 
fatty  acid.  If  short-chain,  fatty  acids 
are  present,  this  breakdown  will  result 
in  a  rancid  odor  that  can  be  detected 
at  room  temperature. 

Fats  from  soybeans  in  shortening 
and  margarine  are  also  susceptible  to 
reversion.  This  is  a  change  in  edible 
fats  characterized  by  the  development 
of  an  objectionable  flavor.  This  objec- 
tionable flavor  is  quite  often  "fishy" 
or  "painty."  The  high  percentage  of 
polyunsaturated  fatty  acids  such  as 
linolenic  acid  in  soybean  oil  would 
make  margarine  produced  with  soy- 
bean oil  very  susceptible  to  reversion. 

Since  butter  and  margarine  absorb 
odors  so  noticeably,  they  should  be 
stored  in  covered  containers  in  the 
refrigerator.  If  they  are  to  be  kept 
for  a  long  period  of  time,  they  should 
be  frozen. 

It  is  well  known  that  the  shortening 
power  of  fats  and  oils  varies  with 
differences  in  temperature  (particu- 
larly as  this  affects  plasticity  of  fat), 
fat/flour  ratio,  and  mixing  techniques. 
However,  several  studies  of  tenderness 
in  pastry  have  indicated  that  lard 
makes  a  more  tender  pastry  than 
hydrogenated  vegetable  oil,  whereas 
butter  or  margarine  will  produce  the 
least  tender  pastry. 

Further  studies  have  shown  that 
when  increasing  amounts  of  fats  are 
added  to  pastry,  optimum  tenderness 
is  achieved  at  lower  levels  with  corn, 


cottonseed,  or  soybean  oil  than  with 
any  of  the  solid  fats.  Good  quality 
pastries  can  be  made  with  oils,  lard, 
or  hydrogenated  shortening  when  the 
proper  amount  of  fat  and  proper  mix- 
ing techniques  are  used. 

In  this  country,  few  desserts  are  as 
popular  as  pie.  The  success  of  a  pie 
depends  partly  upon  the  quality  of 
the  crust.  You,  as  the  cook,  have  a 
number  of  decisions  to  make.  You 
must  choose  the  ingredients,  amounts, 
methods  of  mixing,  and  temperature 
of  cooking. 

In  a  pastry  made  with  hydrogenated 
fat,  approximately  %  cup  of  fat  per 
cup  of  flour  is  used.  But  with  lard 
or  oil,  yi  cup  of  fat  per  cup  of  flour 
is  adequate.  Lard  and  hydrogenated 
shortenings  are  cut  into  the  flour  with 
a  pastry  blender  or  two  knives.  Oil  is 
stirred  into  flour  with  a  fork  either 
as  water-oil  mixture  or  just  before 
adding  water.  Hot  water  may  be 
added  to  a  plastic  shortening  and 
stirred  into  the  flour  in  the  same 
fashion.  Crusts  made  with  oil  or  by 
using  hot  water  are  often  more  mealy 
than  flaky.  Pastry  made  with  lard  or 
hydrogenated  shortenings  are  usually 
flaky  as  well  as  tender. 

If  you  are  not  satisfied  with  your 
pastry,  try  different  fats  or  oils  using 
recommended  recipes.  Commercial 
companies  spend  a  great  deal  of  money 
on  research  to  develop  better  recipes 
for  their  products,  so  their  recipes  are 
usually  dependable. 

Maybe  your  favorite  dessert  is  cake. 
Fat  in  cake  batter  not  only  serves  to 
make  the  crumb  tender,  but  it  entraps 
air  during  the  creaming  process  and 
thus  contributes  to  the  leavening  and 
increases  the  volume  of  the  cake.  Too 
little  fat  results  in  a  dry  cake  that 
is  not  "velvety"  and  tender.  Too  much 
fat  makes  a  crumbly,  heavy  cake  which 
may  fall  in  the  center. 

Plastic  fat  is  melted  when  used  in 
the  muffin  method  of  cake  mixing. 
Oil  may  be  used  in  a  modification  of 
this  method,  in  which  egg  whites 
beaten  with  or  without  part  of  the 
sugar  are  added  after  combining  the 
other  ingredients.  This  cake  is  often 


called  chiffon  cake.  Because  of  the 
difference  in  mixing  and  the  higher 
ratio  of  sugar,  do  not  try  to  substitute 
oil  for  solid  fats  in  other  cake  recipes. 

However,  plastic  fat  in  the  conven- 
tional method  of  cake  mixing  does  not 
need  to  be  melted  because  it  is 
creamed  until  it  is  light  and  fluffy. 
Flavoring  is  added  while  the  fat  is 
being  creamed,  for  fat  carries  flavors 
far  better  than  other  ingredients  do. 
Eggs  serve  as  an  emulsifying  agent — 
to  promote  dispersion  of  fat. 

The  "quick  mix"  or  "one  bowl" 
method  of  mixing  cakes  was  developed 
for  the  shortenings  containing  emulsi- 
fiers  and  makes  especially  good  cakes 
with  recipes  that  use  a  higher  ratio  of 
sugar  to  flour  and  other  ingredients. 

As  previously  stated,  shortenings 
with  emulsifiers  have  a  low  smoke 
point.  When  fats  or  oils  are  heated  to 
a  high  temperature,  decomposition 
occurs,  and  finally  a  point  is  reached 
at  which  visible  fumes  are  given  off. 
This  is  the  smoke  point.  The  fumes 
have  an  unpleasant  odor  and  are 
irritating  to  the  nose  and  eyes. 

Food  fried  in  smoking  fats  is  likely 
to  have  an  unpleasant  flavor,  and  the 
fat  will  become  rancid  faster  than  fat 
which  has  not  been  heated  to  smoke 
temperatures. 

An  ideal  fat  for  frying  food  is  one 
that  has  a  fairly  high  smoke  point. 
Most  cooking  oils  and  all  hydrogen- 
ated shortenings  (without  emulsifiers) 
have  high  smoke  points.  Smoke  points 
vary  for  lards.  Butter,  margarine,  and 
shortenings  with  emulsifiers  have  low 
smoke  points  and  do  not  make  good 
frying  fats.  Repeated  use  of  a  fat 
lowers  the  smoke  point.  Foods  absorb 
more  fat,  which  is  undesirable,  when 
they  are  cooked  in  a  fat  with  a  low 
smoke  point. 

A  frying  utensil  that  is  relatively 
small  in  diameter  is  better  for  frying 
than  a  large  one  because  the  smoke 
point  is  lowered  if  a  large  surface  of 
fat  is  exposed.  Smoke  point  is  also 
lowered  by  crumbs,  bits  of  food,  and 
flour.  To  remove  such  particles,  fat 
is  filtered  through  cheesecloth.  Used 
fat  should  be  stored  in  the  refrigerator 

229 


inasmuch  as  it  is  more  susceptible  to 
rancidity  than  unused  fat. 

Deep-fat  frying  is  more  of  an  art 
than  a  science,  and  experience  is  the 
best  teacher.  Are  your  french-fried 
potatoes  soggy  and  greasy?  Maybe 
your  frying  fat  is  not  hot  enough. 
The  temperature  of  the  fat  should  be 
370°  to  385°  F.  At  this  temperature 
a  1-inch  bread  cube  will  brown  in  20 
to  45  seconds.  The  potatoes  should 
be  cooked  in  small  batches  so  tempera- 
ture of  the  fat  will  not  be  lowered 
drastically.  If  you  have  time  and  want 
to  make  a  real  treat  for  the  family, 
try  this  two-step  method : 

Pare  the  potatoes;  cut  lengthwise  in 
%-inch  to  %-inch  strips.  Rinse  strips 
quickly  in  cold  water  to  remove  sur- 
face starch,  then  dry  them  well.  Heat 
deep  fat  (5  inches)  in  a  7-inch  to  9-inch 
saucepan  to  370°  to  385°  F.  Place  a 
layer  of  potatoes  in  a  frying  basket; 
lower  basket  gently  into  fat.  Cook 
about  6  minutes  (potatoes  should  be 
tender  but  not  brown).  Drain  on  ab- 
sorbent paper.  Repeat  with  another 
layer.  When  all  potatoes  have  been 
cooked,  reheat  fat.  Return  two  layers 
of  potatoes  at  a  time  to  basket  and 
brown  the  potatoes  in  the  hot  fat. 
Drain,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve. 

A  delicious  food  that  utilizes  pan- 
frying  is  fried  rice.  A  recipe  tells  how 
to  prepare  this  Chinese  food. 

FRIED  RICE 

6  servings 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  margarine 
1%  cups  water 
1  cup  rice,  uncooked 
or 

3  cups  cold  cooked  rice 

Cooking  Oil 

}i  pound  fresh  lean  pork 

or 
1  cup  cooked  pork  strips 

4  scallions,  medium  size,  cut  up 
1  pepper,  chopped 

3  tablespoons  soy  sauce 

Add  salt  and  fat  to  water  and  bring 
to  rolling  boil;  stir  in  uncooked  rice. 

230 


Cover  tightly  and  cook  over  low  heat 
until  tender,  20  to  30  minutes. 

Uncover  the  pot  for  the  last  5  min- 
utes of  cooking  and  fluff  rice  with  a 
fork.  To  avoid  spattering,  dry  rice  in 
warm  oven  or  use  day-old  rice. 

Cut  fresh  pork  into  strips.  Lightly 
cover  the  bottom  of  heavy  frying  pan 
with  cooking  oil.  Brown  pork  strips 
quickly;  cover  to  finish  cooking.  Re- 
move pork  to  bowl. 

Put  scallions  and  pepper  in  frying 
pan;  cover  and  cook  until  tender. 
Remove  to  bowl  containing  pork. 

Add  more  oil  to  frying  pan  and  fry 
rice  until  browned,  stirring  constantly. 

Add  pork,  vegetables,  and  soy  sauce. 
Toss  lightly  and  serve. 

Another  important  way  that  fats  are 
used  is  in  oil-in-water  emulsions.  Such 
food  emulsions  occur  naturally  as  in 
milk  or  prepared  as  in  mayonnaise 
and  salad  dressings.  Actually,  certain 
baked  products  like  cakes  and  cream 
puffs  are  also  emulsions.  Mayonnaise 
is  a  stable  emulsion  of  oil  droplets  in 
water.  The  emulsion  is  considered 
permanent  because  it  is  stabilized  with 
egg  yolk.  The  ingredients  of  mayon- 
naise are  almost  always  vegetable  oil, 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  eggs  or  yolks, 
and  selected  spices. 

Salad  dressing  is  a  product  which 
resembles  mayonnaise.  It  contains 
essentially  the  same  constituents  ex- 
cept a  cooked  starch  paste  is  substi- 
tuted for  part  of  the  egg,  and  the 
amount  of  oil  is  thus  reduced.  Home- 
made french  dressing  is  usually  a 
temporary  emulsion  containing  the 
same  ingredients  as  mayonnaise  with- 
out egg.  Finely  ground  spices  like 
paprika  act  here  as  emulsifying  agents 
but  are  not  sufficiently  good  emulsi- 
fiers  to  keep  the  oil  and  water  phases 
from  separating  after  a  few  minutes. 
Commercial  french  dressings  usually 
contain  small  amounts  of  stabilizing 
ingredients  such  as  vegetable  gums  or 
pectins  and  tomato  paste  or  puree. 

According  to  the  U.S.  Food  and 
Drug  Administration,  mayonnaise  must 
contain  at  least  65  percent  oil,  but 
commercially  the  oil  levels  run  around 


75  percent.  Commercial  french  dress- 
ings must  contain  not  less  than  35 
percent  vegetable  oil,  and  salad  dress- 
ings must  contain  30  percent  oil  as  a 
minimum  but  often  are  found  as  high 
as  45  percent.  Because  of  the  cost 
difference  in  ingredients,  mayonnaise 
is  usually  more  expensive  than  salad 
dressings. 

Salad  dressings  and  french  dressings 
contain  about  50  to  60  calories  per 
tablespoon,  while  mayonnaise  contains 
around  100  calories  per  tablespoon. 
Imitation  mayonnaises  (reduced  in  oil 
content)  are  on  the  market,  and  these 
contain  approximately  20  calories  per 
tablespoon. 

Variations  can  be  made  by  adding 
chopped  foods  to  mayonnaise,  french 
dressing,  or  salad  dressing.  Some  of 
the  ingredients  commonly  added  arc 
green  pepper,  olives,  pimiento,  pickle, 
hard-cooked  egg,  celery,  parsley,  on- 
ion, horseradish,  chili  sauce,  cream, 
raisins,  cherries,  nuts,  pineapple,  and 
Roquefort  or  cream  cheese.  Special 
low-calorie  dressings  which  often  con- 
tain less  than  10  calories  per  table- 
spoon are  made  with  very  little  oil,  a 
fruit  or  vegetable  base,  and  artificial 
sweeteners. 

Mayonnaise  is  easy  to  make  but 
certain  precautions  that  may  not  be 
included  in  your  recipe  are :  Too  shal- 
low a  bowl  will  result  in  spreading  the 
egg  yolk  into  a  thin  film  so  that  little 
or  no  mixing  takes  place  at  the  begin- 
ning when  thorough  mixing  is  crucial. 
The  oil,  at  room  temperature,  should 
be  added  in  very  small  quantities  at 
first  and  then  more  rapidly.  If  mayon- 
naise curdles  during  mixing  or  sepa- 
rates after  it  is  made,  you  may  start 
mixing  again  with  an  egg  yolk  or  a 
tablespoon  of  water  or  vinegar.  The 
curdled  or  separated  mayonnaise  must 
be  added  to  the  egg  yolk  or  liquid. 
There  is  no  value  in  adding  the  egg  or 
liquid  to  the  mixture. 

This  chapter  would  not  be  complete 
without  mentioning  peanut  butter. 
This  is  the  only  nut  butter  produced 
commercially  to  any  extent  in  this 
country.  Peanut  butter,  which  con- 
tains about  50  percent  fat,  is  frequendy 


Peanuts. 


used  as  a  substitute  for  other  fats  in 
cakes,  cookies,  and  candy.  It  is  valued 
as  a  very  nutritive  spread  because  of 
its  high  fat,  protein,  mineral,  and 
B-vitamin  content. 

If  you  are  an  adult  and  have  held 
peanut  butter  in  disdain  since  your 
childhood,  try  some.  It  has  been 
improved  with  emulsifiers  and  stabi- 
lizers. Delicious  canapes  and  sand- 
wiches can  be  made  by  using  peanut 
butter  with  additions  of  jellies,  raisins, 
bananas,  minced  bacon,  or  pickle 
relish. 

231 


Verna  A.  Mikesh 
Leona  S.  Nelson 


Sugar,  Sweets 
Play  Roles  in 
Food  Texture 
and  Flavoring 


On  each  day,  people  everywhere  say, 
"Please  pass  the  sugar."  Whether  it's 
to  sweeten  the  morning  cereal  or  the 
midnight  snack,  sugar  or  a  sweet  in 
some  form  is  a  daily  necessity. 

Nutritionally,  sugars,  maple  sirup, 
molasses,  table  sirup,  jams  and  jellies, 
honey,  and  other  sweets  provide  the 
body  with  the  fuel  to  release  energy. 
Artificial  sweeteners  provide  sweet- 
ness— but  no  nutritional  value.  No  one 
sugar  or  sweet  is  "more  healthful" 
than  another.  The  small  amounts  of 
minerals  and  vitamins  in  the  unrefined 
forms  are  of  little  consequence  in 
supplying  an  adequate  diet. 

Table  sugar  is  one  of  our  cheapest 
sources  of  food  energy.  The  familiar 
white  crystals  are  sucrose  extracted 
and  refined  from  sugar  beets  or  sugar- 
cane. Chemically,  cane  and  beet 
sugars  are  the  same.  In  cooking  and 
preserving,  they  act  the  same. 

Sugar  performs  many  functions  in 
cooking  besides  adding  sweetness  and 
enhancing  flavors.  It  contributes  to 
the  lightness,  color,  and  fine  grain  of 
baked  products.  Sugar  softens  the 
gluten  strands  of  the  flour,  enabling 
them  to  expand  with  the  action  of 

232 


leavening  to  give  a  light  product.  It 
furnishes  quickly  available  food  for 
yeast  in  bread  doughs.  Carbon  dioxide 
thrown  off  by  yeast  growth  expands 
the  dough.  Oven  heat  caramelizes  the 
sugar  giving  the  flavorful,  crisp,  brown 
crust  we  enjoy  on  baked  products. 

Sugar  tenderizes  egg  protein.  With 
sugar  in  a  mixture,  more  air  can  be 
beaten  into  egg  whites,  and  the  foam 
will  be  more  stable.  This  raises  the 
temperature  at  which  egg  proteins 
coagulate.  In  an  angel  food  cake,  for 
example,  the  tiny  air  cells  can  expand 
before  being  set  by  oven  heat.  A 
smooth  custard  results  from  the  slow 
coagulation  of  egg  protein. 

This  recipe  illustrates  how  sugar  is 
used  with  beaten  egg  whites  to  make  a 
delicious  dessert. 

MERINGUE  TORTE 

8  servings 

3  egg  whites 

}i  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar 

10  square  (2-inch)  soda  crackers  rolled 

fine  (H  cup  crumbs) 
y2  cup  chopped  nutmeats 
1  quart  of  strawberries   or  raspberries, 

washed  and  trimmed 
}i  cup  whipping  cream 
1  to  2  tablespoons  sugar,  as  desired 

Beat  egg  whites  and  baking  powder 
until  frothy.  Beat  sugar  in  gradually 
until  the  egg  whites  are  stiff.  Fold  in 
crumbs  and  nutmeats.  Spread  on  a 
greased  9-inch  piepan.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  (300°  F.)  for  30  minutes.  Cool. 
Fill  with  the  berries.  Whip  cream, 
sweeten  with  sugar,  and  spread  over 
berries.  Chill  several  hours. 

Puddings,  pie  fillings,  and  dessert 
sauces  owe  their  body  and  smooth- 
ness to  sugar.  To  prevent  lumping,  mix 
the  sugar  and  starch  together  before 
combining  with  the  liquid.  Improve 
the  smoothness  of  hot  cocoa  by  blend- 
ing the  dry  cocoa  with  sugar  before 
combining  with  the  liquid. 

Verna  A.  Mikesh  is  Extension  Nutritionist  and 
Leona  S.  Nelson  is  an  Assistant  Extension  Ir.for- 
mation  Specialist,  with  the  Agricultural  Extension 
Service,  University  of  Minnesota,  St.  Paul. 


Frozen  desserts  are  smooth  because 
sugar  lowers  the  freezing  point  of  the 
mixture  to  be  frozen.  This  factor,  plus 
stirring,  makes  tiny  ice  crystals  in  the 
food.  The  result  is  a  smooth  and  a 
creamy  product. 

Candies  and  frostings  further  dem- 
onstrate the  many  physical  and  chemi- 
cal characteristics  of  sugar.  Vary  the 
sugar  concentration,  temperature,  agi- 
tation, and  other  ingredients  to  make 
a  myriad  of  sweets. 

The  ability  of  sugar  to  change  to 
invert  sugar  makes  creamy  fudge  and 
fondant  because  invert  sugar  induces 
a  very  fine  crystal  structure. 

Moisture,  heat,  and  acid  bring  about 
this  chemical  change.  Acid  ingredients 
such  as  cream  of  tartar  or  chocolate 
accelerate  it.  The  addition  of  corn 
sirup  also  aids  in  controlling  the  crystal 
size. 

Candies  such  as  butterscotch  don't 
have  any  crystals  due  to  the  combina- 
tion of  invert  sugar,  high  temperature, 
and  corn  sirup.  They  harden  before 
they  crystallize. 

As  the  concentration  of  sugar  in  a 
sirup  increases,  the  boiling  temperature 


Temperature  and  Tests  for  Sugar  Cookery 

Thread  Test 

Temperature 
(°F.) 

Product 

Sirup 

230-234 

Sirup  spins  a 
2-inch  thread. 

Cold  Water  Test 

Drop  sirup  into  very 

;old  water. 

Temperature 
<T°F.) 

Product 

Fondant  Fudge, 

234-240 

Sirup  forms  a  soft 
ball  that  flattens 

Penocha 

(Penoche) 

when  removed 
from  water. 

Caramels 

244-248 

Sirup  forms  a  firm 
ball  that  doesn't 
flatten  when 
removed  from 
water. 

Divinity 

250-266 

Sirup  forms  a 
hard  ball  that 
holds  its  shape 
yet  remains 
plastic. 

Butterscotch 

270-290 

Sirup  separates 

Taffy 

into  threads 
that  are  hard 
but  not  brittle 
(soft  crack). 

Brittle 

300-310 

Sirup  separates 
into  threads 

that  are  hard 

and  brittle 

(hard  crack). 

Creamy  pecan  fudge. 


rises.  A  candy  thermometer  aids  in 
making  candy  and  frosting.  The  cold 
water  test  is  less  reliable,  but  many 
people  use  it. 

Sugar  preserves  the  color  and  flavor 
of  fruit  in  the  form  of  jams  and  jellies. 
The  acid  and  pectin  in  the  fruit,  plus 
sugar,  makes  a  gel.  The  cooked  prod- 
ucts keep  without  further  processing 
because  sugar  minimizes  the  growth  of 
micro-organisms. 

Store  white  granulated  sugar  cov- 
ered and  in  a  dry  place. 

Other  sugars  (brown),  molasses, 
honey,  and  sirup  have  many  of  the 
qualities  of  white  granulated  sugar  be- 
cause they  are  similar  physically  and 
chemically.  They  add  interest  to  food 
with  their  distinctive  flavors  and  spe- 
cial properties. 

Brown  sugar  is  brown  and  soft  be- 
cause some  of  the  original  sugar  sirup 
remains  around  the  crystals.  The  color 
varies  from  very  light  to  the  more 
robust-flavored  dark  brown. 

233 


Store  brown  sugar  in  an  airtight 
container  to  keep  it  from  drying  out. 
Adding  half  of  an  apple  in  the  con- 
tainer provides  moisture,  but  check  it 
occasionally  for  mold.  Soften  hardened 
brown  sugar  by  heating  it  in  a  slow 
oven.  It  becomes  harder  than  ever 
after  cooling,  so  handle  it  while  it  is 
still  warm. 

Measure  brown  sugar  by  packing  it 
into  the  measuring  utensil.  The  sugar 
should  retain  its  shape  when  the  utensil 
is  lifted  off.  Your  grocer  may  also  have 
the  granulated  form  of  brown  sugar. 
Measure  granulated  brown  sugar  as 
you  would  white  sugar.  Follow  pack- 
age directions  for  substituting  it  in 
your  recipes. 

Powdered  or  confectioners  sugar  is 
very  finely  ground  granulated  sugar. 
A  small  percent  of  cornstarch  may  be 
added  to  prevent  caking.  Powdered 
sugar  may  need  sifting  to  insure  a 
smooth  frosting  and  accurate  measure- 
ment. You  may  like  the  new  granu- 
lated form  that  measures  easily  and 
blends  smoothly.  It  is  more  expensive 
but  it's  convenient. 

Molasses  that  is  a  byproduct  of  sugar 
manufacture  contains  sulphur  dioxide. 
Some  manufacturers  make  an  "un- 
sulphured"  molasses  by  concentrating 
the  juice  of  sugarcane  without  the 
intention  of  making  sugar. 

High-grade  mild  molasses  is  used  in 
table  sirups.  The  darker  kinds  lend 
color  and  flavor  to  many  cooked  foods. 
In  addition  to  sugar,  molasses  con- 
tains some  calcium  and  iron. 

There  is  little  nutritional  advantage 
in  using  crude  blackstrap  molasses,  a 
byproduct  of  sugar  manufacture. 

Sugar-rich  sorghum  cane  yields 
sorghum  sirup.  Those  who  enjoy  its 
distinctive  flavor  use  it  as  they  would 
molasses  and  sirup.  The  market  forms 
may  contain  invert  sugar  to  prevent 
crystallization. 

The  American  Indian  discovered 
that  the  concentrated  sap  of  the  maple 
tree  makes  a  delicious  sweet.  Maple 
sirup  and  maple  sugar  are  expensive 
but  highly  prized  for  their  flavor. 

Not  only  is  this  prized  flavor  imi- 
tated, but  often  maple  sugar  and  sirup 

234 


are  blended  with  less  expensive  sweets 
to  pour  over  the  pancakes  of  the 
budget-conscious  consumer. 

Making  maple  sirup  requires  time, 
labor,  and  skill.  It  takes  about  40 
gallons  of  sap  boiled  down  to  make 
1  gallon  of  sirup  or  8  pounds  of  sugar. 

Color  is  the  principal  factor  in 
grading  maple  sirup  which  meets  all 
the  other  requirements  for  density, 
flavor,  and  clearness. 

USDA  grades  for  maple  sirup  are: 

Light  amber — U.S.  grade  AA;  me- 
dium amber — U.S.  grade  A;  dark 
amber — U.S.  grade  B;  unclassified. 

You  can  buy  maple  sirup  in  any 
quantity  ranging  from  a  gallon  to  less 
than  a  pint.  Sirup  in  sealed  containers 
keeps  well  at  room  temperature.  Re- 
frigerate open  containers  to  prevent 
mold  formation.  Rebotde  the  sirup 
bought  in  large  lots  by  heating  it  to 
180°  F.  and  sealing  in  sterilized  jars. 

Store  maple  creme  in  the  refriger- 
ator or  freezer;  store  maple  sugar  at 
room  temperature  in  a  dry  place. 

Enjoy  maple  flavor  with  this  dessert. 

MAPLE-BAKED  APPLES 

Use  1  cup  maple  sirup  and  1  tea- 
spoon grated  lemon  rind  for  six  apples. 
Choose  tart  baking  apples.  Pare  about 
one-third  of  the  way  down  and  core. 
Place  in  a  baking  dish.  Pour  sirup  and 
lemon  rind  over  them.  Bake  1  hour  at 
375°  F.  Baste  occasionally  with  sirup. 
Serve  warm  with  sirup  and  cream. 

MAPLE  SUNDAE 

Warm  maple  sirup  slightly.  Pour 
over  ice  cream,  and  sprinkle  with 
chopped  nuts  for  a  delicious  sundae. 

Corn  supplies  another  sweet  in  the 
form  of  corn  sirup.  These  sirups,  white 
and  dark,  are  made  by  subjecting  corn 
starch  to  the  action  of  acid  or  enzymes. 
Though  less  expensive  than  other 
sirups,  they  aren't  as  sweet  and  are 
used  in  candymaking,  infant  formulas, 
the  manufacture  of  table  sirups,  and  in 
other  products  requiring  sweetening. 

The  grocer's  shelf  holds  a  large 
variety  of  the  blended  table  sirups  for 


pancakes  and  waffles.  They  include 
sugar,  corn,  and  maple  sirups  in 
varying  proportions  as  stated  on  the 
label.  Other  ingredients  such  as  butter, 
salt,  honey,  sorghum,  imitation  flavor- 
ing, coloring,  stabilizers,  and  preserva- 
tives are  also  included  and  listed. 

Since  maple  sirup  is  the  most  ex- 
pensive, and  corn  sirup  the  least,  cost 
will  vary  with  the  amounts  of  each 
that  are  used. 

Honey,  the  sweetest  tasting  of  all 
sweets,  contains  some  fructose,  which 
is  one-fifth  sweeter  than  granulated 
sugar. 

Color  and  flavor  of  honey  are 
determined  by  the  flowers  from  which 
the  bees  collect  the  nectar.  Light- 
colored,  mild  kinds  come  from  clovers. 
One  of  the  darkest  and  most  strongly 
flavored  is  from  buckwheat.  Citrus 
blossom,  tupelo,  sage,  and  basswood 
are  well-liked,  distinctive  honey  flavors. 

Most  of  the  honey  on  the  market  is 
extracted  honey,  that  is,  honey  sepa- 
rated from  the  comb.  Extracted  honey 
in  a  crystallized  form  is  called  honey 
creme  or  honey  spread.  Comb  honey 
is  usually  more  expensive  because  it 
is  difficult  and  costly  to  produce. 

U.S.  Grade  A  or  U.S.  Fancy  indi- 
cates top  grade  honey.  Next  is  U.S. 
Grade  B.  Flavor  is  a  most  important 
factor  in  honey  grading,  plus  clarity 
and  absence  of  defects.  Color  isn't  a 
factor  in  U.S.  grades. 

Liquid  honey  can  be  bought  in 
quantities  ranging  from  a  large  tin 
pail  to  a  small  plastic  squeeze  bottle. 
Creme  honey  comes  in  plastic  or 
paper-type  tubs.  One  and  one-third 
cups  of  honey  weigh  1  pound. 

Store  honey  tightly  covered  to  retain 
its  flavor  and  aroma.  Keep  it  at  room 
temperature  to  retard  granulation.  If 
it  granulates,  put  the  container  in  a 
bowl  of  warm  water  to  melt  the 
crystals.  Honey  stored  over  a  long  time 
may  darken  somewhat,  but  it  will 
still  be  usable. 

Cooked  foods  made  with  honey  are 
slightly  sweeter,  have  more  color,  and 
a  different  texture  from  those  made 
with  sugar.  Baked  goods  remain  soft 
as  honey  absorbs  moisture  from  the 


air.  Candies  and  meringues  made 
with  honey  may  absorb  excess  mois- 
ture, making  them  soft  and  sticky. 
Freezing  intensifies  the  honey  flavor 
in  baked  products. 

For  best  results  when  using  honey 
in  cooking  and  baking,  follow  recipes 
especially  designed  for  honey. 

Try  these  foods  for  honey  flavor 
enjoyment. 

HONEY  BRUNCH  COCOA 

5  servings 

1  quart  milk 

2  sticks  cinnamon 
K  cup  cocoa 

}i  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  honey 

Scald  milk  with  cinnamon  sticks. 
Mix  cocoa  and  salt;  blend  in  %  cup 
hot  milk  until  smooth.  Add  to  scalded 
milk  and  stir  in  honey.  Remove  the 
cinnamon  sticks.  Mix  with  a  rotary 
beater. 

HONEY  CORN  MUFFINS 

8  muffins 

%  cup  sifted  flour 

1%  teaspoon  baking  powder 

}i  teaspoon  salt 

}i  cup  cornmeal 

1  egg,  well  beaten 

%cup  milk 

%  cup  honey 

3  tablespoons  shortening,  melted 

Yt  cup  pared  diced  apple 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and 
salt.  Stir  in  cornmeal.  Combine  egg, 
milk,  honey,  and  shortening.  Add  all 
at  once  to  cornmeal  mixture;  add 
apple;  stir  only  enough  to  dampen 
flour.  Spoon  into  8  well-greased,  2- 
inch  muffin  pans.  Bake  at  400°  F.  for 
15  to  20  minutes. 

The  array  of  jellies,  jams,  preserves, 
and  marmalades  on  the  grocer's  shelf 
indicates  that  these  are  important  food 
specialties.  Calorie  counters  and  spe- 
cial dieters  can  purchase  varieties 
made  with  artificial  sweeteners. 

The  Food  and  Drug  Administration 
has  established  standards  of  identity 
for  jams,  jellies,  and  preserves.  Among 
other  things  they  must  be  made  with 

235 


no  less  than  45  parts  of  fruit  to  55 
parts  of  sweeteners  by  weight.  If  the 
product  doesn't  meet  the  composition 
requirement,  then  it  must  be  labeled 
"Imitation." 

In  addition,  the  U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture  has  developed  grade 
standards  in  cooperation  with  the 
preserving  industry.  You  may  find  a 
continuous  inspection  shield  on  the 
label  or  lid,  but  more  often,  it  will  be 
the  red,  white,  and  blue  U.S.  Grade 
A  or  Fancy  designation.  This  means 
the  product  was  packed  under  the 
Department's  continuous  inspection. 
This  doesn't  imply  that  products  with- 
out the  inspection  or  grademark  are 
inferior. 

Jelly  adds  a  jewel-like  sparkle  to 
these  cookies: 

SCANDINAVIAN  THUMBPRINT  COOKIES 

2  dozen  cookies 

\{  cup  butter  or  margarine 

l/t  cup  brown  sugar,  packed 

1  egg,  separated 

K  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sifted  flour 

K  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  finely  chopped  nuts 

Tart  red  jelly,  as  needed 

Blend  fat,  sugar,  egg  yolk,  and 
vanilla.  Stir  in  flour  and  salt.  Beat  egg 
white  slightly.  Roll  dough  into  1-inch 
balls.  Dip  in  slightly  beaten  egg  white. 
Roll  into  finely  chopped  nuts.  Place  1 
inch  apart  on  an  ungreased  cookie 
sheet.  Bake  5  minutes  at  375°  F.  Re- 
move from  oven;  quickly  press  thumb 
gently  into  the  top  of  each  cookie. 
Return  to  oven  and  bake  8  minutes 
longer  or  until  lightly  browned.  Cool. 

Place  a  dab  of  red  jelly  in  each 
depression. 

There  is  a  vast  increase  in  the  use  of 
artificial  sweeteners.  Originally  they 
were  intended  primarily  for  diabetics. 
But  a  weight-conscious  society  has 
adopted  them  as  an  aid  to  weight 


control.  In  this  respect  their  effective- 
ness depends  on  the  caloric  regulation 
of  other  foods  in  the  diet. 

Artificial  sweeteners  may  be  sac- 
charin, cyclamate,  or  a  combination 
of  the  two.  Any  products  which  are 
artificially  sweetened  must  show  the 
ingredient  that's  used,  along  with  the 
amount,  on  the  label.  These  sweeteners 
are  used  in  soft  drinks,  desserts,  and 
other  products  being  promoted  as 
low-calorie  foods.  They  may  be  bought 
for  use  as  table  sweetening  or  cooking, 
in  tablet,  liquid,  or  granular  form. 

Sweetening  equivalents  as  stated  on 
the  container  differ  among  these 
products.  For  cooking  and  baking,  use 
recipes  especially  designed  for  their 
use.  Remember  that  they  don't  have 
the  preservative  qualities  of  sugar. 
Jams  and  jellies  made  with  artificial 
sweetener  must  be  refrigerated  after 
opening.  Baked  products  may  mold 
in  a  short  time. 

The  Food  and  Drug  Administration 
constantly  checks  artificial  sweeteners 
for  significant  adverse  effects  at  normal 
use  levels.  Manufactured  products 
that  contain  sweeteners  which  are  not 
designated  on  the  label  misbrand  the 
product.  This  is  why  the  Food  and 
Drug  Administration  rules  that  the 
label  must  state  these  are  non-nutritive 
artificial  sweeteners  recommended  only 
for  persons  who  must  restrict  their 
use  of  ordinary  sweets. 

A  stop  at  the  candy  counter  in 
almost  any  establishment  points  out 
the  size  of  the  American  sweet  tooth. 

The  choices  range  from  a  penny 
licorice  whip  to  an  elaborate  box  of 
fancy  hand-dipped  chocolates.  Candies 
are  part  of  our  holiday  fun:  Fillers 
for  Halloween  trick  or  treat  bags, 
Christmas  hard  mix,  Valentine  hearts, 
and  multicolored  jelly  eggs  at  Easter. 
They  have  great  social  significance,  as 
bribes  or  peace  offerings,  or  expres- 
sions of  love  and  joy. 

"Please  help  yourself  and  pass  the 
candy." 


236 


Walter  R.  Moses 
Margaret  F.  Tennant 


Beverages: 
Milk,  Coffee, 
Tea,  Juices, 
Chocolate 


Without  beverages  our  meals  would 
be  less  nutritious  and  our  working 
hours  and  social  gatherings  less  enjoy- 
able. Their  use  is  wide,  their  types 
varied,  and  their  history  long. 

Coffee  drinking  became  a  popular 
pastime  in  the  coffeehouses  of  London 
in  the  middle  17th  century  where 
literary,  scientific,  religious,  and  po- 
litical matters  were  discussed  over  cups 
of  the  steaming  brew. 

Tea  has  been  used  as  a  beverage 
since  ancient  days.  In  many  countries 
the  preparation  and  serving  of  tea  is 
considered  an  art — Japanese  women  of 
good  family  sometimes  receive  up  to 
3  years'  instruction  in  the  ceremony. 

During  the  conquest  of  Mexico  in 
1519  Hernando  Cortez  found  the 
Aztec  emperor  Montezuma  drinking 
"chocolatl"  from  great  golden  bowls 
and  carried  the  idea  back  to  Spain. 
The  Spanish  added  cane  sugar  to  the 
drink  and  served  it  hot. 

Today  in  the  United  States  con- 
sumption of  these  and  other  beverages 
is  on  the  rise,  except  for  milk  which 
has  served  man  as  a  food  for  thousands 
of  years. 

A  recent  nationwide  survey  by  U.S. 


Department  of  Agriculture  food  econ- 
omists indicates  that  more  youths  in 
the  population,  more  snacking  by 
people  in  general,  and  more  money  in 
the  household  budget  resulted  in  a  15 
percent  increase  in  the  amount  of  the 
beverages  consumed  at  home  during 
the  10  years  from  1955  to  1965.  Ten 
cents  of  the  1965  household  food  dollar 
was  used  for  beverages  other  than  milk, 
while  approximately  8  cents  was  spent 
for  the  various  types  of  fresh  fluid  and 
processed  milk. 

The  trend  has  been  away  from  milk 
as  a  beverage  and  toward  more  coffee, 
soft  drinks,  fruit  ades,  and  punches. 
An  average  of  39  cups  of  milk  (butter- 
milk, skim  milk,  chocolate  milk,  baby 
and  diet  formula)  were  consumed  per 
household  per  week  in  1965  compared 
to  46  cups  in  1955.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  number  of  cups  of  coffee  increased 
from  38  to  48,  soft  drinks  increased 
from  5  to  9  cups,  while  fruit  ades  and 
punches  consumed  rose  from  1  to  13 
cups  a  week.  Tea  and  juices  remained 
about  the  same  with  an  increase  of  1 
cup  for  each.  Away-from-home  pur- 
chases added  to  these  totals. 

The  United  States  not  only  produces 
a  plentiful  supply  of  milk,  but  also  an 
abundant  supply  of  fruit.  Juices  in 
many  pleasing  flavors  and  colors  are 
used  as  appetizers  with  meals,  as 
pickups  between  meals,  as  ingredients 
for  the  party  punchbowl,  and  in  other 
beverages.  Raw  materials  for  coffee, 
tea,  cocoa,  and  chocolate  must  be 
imported. 

Beverages  and  beverage  materials 
are  marketed  in  many  forms.  Milk,  for 
example,  may  be  packaged  as  whole 
fresh  milk  in  botdes  or  cartons,  often 
homogenized,  nearly  always  pasteur- 
ized. It  may  be  sold  in  the  fluid  form 
as  skimmed  milk ;  low-fat  milk,  with  or 
without  added  nonfat  solids;  or  as 
buttermilk — all  of  which  require  re- 
frigeration. Sterilized  milk,  evaporated 

Walter  R.  Moses  is  Chief,  Food  Case  Branch, 
Bureau  of  Regulatory  Compliance,  Food  and 
Drug  Administration. 

Margaret  F.  Tennant  is  a  Public  Information 
Officer  in  the  Information  Division,  Agricultural 
Research  Service. 

237 


Maryland  student  participates  in  taste  test  of 
grape  juice.  Before  canned  juice  from  grapes 
grown  in  different  parts  of  the  country  was 
added  to  national  school  lunch  menu  for  first 
time,  USDA  wanted  to  find  out  which  of  two 
types  the  children  preferred. 


milk,  and  sweetened  condensed  milk 
are  marketed  in  cans.  Nonfat  dry 
milk  is  sold  in  bags,  cartons,  or  packets, 
does  not  need  refrigeration,  and  under 
proper  storage  conditions  keeps  for 
months. 

Fruit  juices  are  marketed  as  fluids 
in  glass  or  cans;  single  strength  or 
concentrated;  pasteurized  and  refrig- 
erated; or  sealed  in  containers  and 
heat-processed  to  prevent  spoilage. 
Juices  are  also  sold  frozen,  either 
single  strength  or  concentrated. 

Of  the  various  juices,  orange  juice 
is  marketed  in  the  most  diverse  forms. 
Under  the  Federal  Food,  Drug,  and 
Cosmetic  Act,  the  Food  and  Drug 
Administration  (FDA)  has  established 
standards  of  identity  for  the  following 
forms:  orange  juice,  frozen  orange 
juice,  pasteurized  orange  juice,  canned 
orange  juice,  orange  juice  from  con- 
centrate, frozen  concentrated  orange 

238 


juice,  and  also  canned  concentrated 
orange  juice.  To  any  of  these,  sugar 
or  certain  other  specified  sweeteners 
may  be  added  with  appropriate  label 
declaration. 

Each  form  of  juice  has  its  advantages 
and  disadvantages.  Most  people  prefer 
the  flavor  of  fresh  fruit  juice.  Such 
juice,  however,  contains  enzymes  and 
micro-organisms  which  quickly  cause 
spoilage  or  lower  the  quality,  even 
when  the  juice  is  kept  chilled.  Quality 
can  be  maintained  by  freezing,  but  the 
frozen  single-strengthjuice  is  expensive 
to  store  and  ship.  It  is  inconvenient 
to  handle,  and  few  firms  stock  it. 

Spoilage  may  be  delayed  by  pas- 
teurizing the  juice.  This  process  inac- 
tivates the  enzymes  and  reduces  the 
number  of  spoilage  organisms  but, 
unfortunately,  it  also  changes  the 
flavor.  Pasteurized  juice  must  be 
refrigerated.  Most  of  the  orange  juice 
sold  by  grocery  stores  or  distributed  by 
dairies  in  glass  or  cartons  has  been 
pasteurized. 

Canned  juice  is  sealed  into  contain- 
ers and  processed  by  heat  to  kill  the 
spoilage  organisms  so  it  will  keep 
without  refrigeration  as  long  as  the 
container  remains  sealed.  The  flavor 
of  canned  fruit  juice  is  usually  con- 
sidered less  desirable  than  that  of  other 
forms. 

The  juice  prepared  from  frozen 
concentrated  orange  juice  is  commonly 
rated  next  to  fresh  juice  in  flavor  and 
other  desirable  characteristics.  The 
frozen  concentrate  retains  its  quality 
indefinitely  when  stored  at  the  proper 
temperature.  It  is  cheaper  to  ship  and 
less  bulky  to  store  than  the  single 
strength  juice,  yet  keeps  some  of  the 
taste  of  the  single  strength  juice  mixed 
into  the  concentrate  before  it  is  frozen. 

FDA  has  established  standards  for 
canned  pineapple  juice,  tomato  juice, 
and  prune  juice.  However,  no  stand- 
ards have  been  set  for  other  popular 
juices  such  as  apple,  grape,  or  grape- 
fruit. These  nonstandardized  juices  are 
sometimes  preserved  with  chemicals 
like  sodium  benzoate  or  sorbic  acid. 
When  used,  such  preservatives  must  be 
declared  on  the  label. 


There  are  on  the  market  many 
beverages  and  beverage  bases  made  in 
part  from  fruit  juices.  Some  contain 
significant  quantities  of  fruit  juice  or 
pulp. /Those  labeled  as  "juice-drinks" 
sometimes  contain  30  percent  or  more 
juice.  Nectars  contain  an  even  higher 
percentage  of  juice  and  pulp.  Other 
beverages  of  this  type  contain  litde 
fruit  or  juice  and  derive  most  of  their 
flavor  from  added  acids,  natural  or 
synthetic  flavoring  materials,  and  other 
additives.  Still  others,  including  some 
dried  or  frozen  concentrates,  contain 
no  fruit  ingredients,  being  made  en- 
tirely from  synthetic  colors,  flavors,  and 
other  nonfruit  ingredients. 

Standards  of  identity  for  frozen 
concentrates  for  lemonade,  colored 
lemonade,  and  artificially  sweetened 
lemonade  have  been  established  by 
FDA.  In  May  1968  the  agency  pub- 
lished an  order  intended  to  do  the 
same  thing  for  certain  nectars,  ades, 
juice-drinks,  cranberry  juice  cocktail, 
and  other  diluted  fruit  drinks.  This 
order,  which  prescribed  the  minimum 
percentage  of  juice  or  pulp  for  each 
and  required  that  the  percentage  be 
listed  on  the  label,  had  to  be  stayed 
pending  a  requested  public  hearing. 

The  nutrient  value  of  carbonated 
beverages  is  mainly  in  sugar  and 
calories.  Artificially  sweetened  car- 
bonated drinks  and  drink  bases  are 
popular  with  persons  on  low  calorie 
or  sugar  restricted  diets.  They  pro- 
vide few  nutrients  and  are  valuable 
only  as  thirst  quenchers.  These  drinks 
come  in  bottles  (returnable  or  non- 
returnable)  and  in  metal  cans.  Car- 
bonated beverages,  other  than  those 
that  are  artificially  sweetened,  must 
comply  with  FDA  standards.  Action 
on  proposed  standards  for  artificially 
sweetened  soda  water  was  postponed 
pending  public  hearings  upon  FDA's 
special  dietary  food  regulations. 

Because  of  the  rapid  rise  in  use  of 
artificial  sweeteners  there  has  been 
concern  about  their  safety.  In  1955 
and  again  in  1965,  the  Food  Protec- 
tion Committee  of  the  National  Acad- 
emy of  Sciences — National  Research 
Council    (NAS/NRC)    evaluated    all 


available  scientific  evidence  on  the 
safety  of  the  artificial  sweeteners  and 
published  reports  which  gave  no 
basis  for  restricting  special  dietary 
use  of  the  sweeteners. 

In  1968,  at  the  request  of  FDA, 
NAS/NRC  reviewed  recent  research 
reports,  and  concluded  that  "totally 
unrestricted  use  of  the  cyclamates  is 
not  warranted  at  this  time."  In  the 
Federal  Register  of  April  5,  1969, 
FDA  published  a  proposal  to  require 
labeling  of  foods  containing  cyclamates 
which  would  make  it  practical  for 
consumers  to  limit  their  intake  of 
cyclamates  to  recommended  levels. 
The  recommended  maximum  daily 
intake  for  adults  is  3,500  milligrams — 
for    children,     1,200    milligrams. 

It  is  estimated  that  close  to  a  third 
of  the  world's  population  uses  coffee 
in   greater   amounts   than   any  other 


USDA  coffee  tester  at  work.  He  helps  assure 
better  quality  coffee  for  schools,  institutions, 
the  military,  and  State  and  Federal  agencies 
that  use  the  testing  service. 


beverage,  with  coffee  drinkers  in  the 
United  States  consuming  around  50 
percent  of  the  supply. 

Coffee  is  imported  as  green  beans 
which  must  be  blended,  roasted,  and 
are  usually  ground  before  they  reach 
the  consumer.  "Coffee  testers"  who 
spend  many  years  in  developing  their 
senses  of  taste  and  smell  (the  only  way 
coffee  can  be  appraised)  use  actual 
cup  tests  rather  than  physical  charac- 
teristics of  the  coffee  bean  as  a  basis 
for  combining  different  varieties.  They 
try  to  balance  costs  with  acceptable 
quality,  and  many  blends  are  avail- 
able at  different  prices.  The  only  way 
to  find  the  "right"  one  is  to  try 
different  brands. 

The  flavor  depends  also  upon  the 
degree  of  roasting  which  brings  out 
the  "coffee  taste"  and  the  aroma  not 
apparent  in  the  coffee  bean.  People 
have  different  preferences  depending 
upon  region  and  national  origin.  A 
dark  roast  is  generally  preferred  in 
the  South,  a  light  roast  along  the 
Pacific  coast,  and  medium  roast  else- 
where in  the  United  States.  Some 
people  may  even  prefer  the  almost 
black  roast  common  in  Italy,  Turkey, 
and   the  surrounding  areas. 

Blends  of  coffee  with  chicory  are 
popular  in  Louisiana  and  may  be  pur- 
chased elsewhere. 

The  device  used  for  brewing  coffee 
governs  the  choice  of  grind  to  a  large 
extent,  but  it  should  be  remembered 
that  a  finer  grind  permits  quicker  ex- 
traction with  less  loss  of  desirable  flavor 
and  aroma. 

Instant  coffees,  first  used  by  the  U.S. 
armed  forces  in  the  field,  now  account 
for  more  than  a  fourth  of  the  coffee 
prepared  at  home.  They  are  available 
in  a  number  of  blends.  Some  are  freeze- 
dried  while  others  are  prepared  by 
various  extraction,  evaporation,  and 
drying  processes. 

For  those  who  do  not  like  the  stim- 
ulating effect  of  caffein,  green  coffee 
is  sometimes  steamed  and  soaked  using 
a  chlorinated  organic  solvent.  Con- 
sumer preference  for  the  "decaffein- 
ated" coffee  is  for  the  instant  or  soluble 
type  of  product. 

240 


About  half  the  people  of  the  world 
drink  hot  or  cold  tea.  Consumption  in 
the  United  States  is  said  to  average 
about  three-fourths  of  a  pound  per 
year  compared  to  10  pounds  for  Great 
Britain  and  for  Ireland,  perhaps  the 
world's  greatest  tea-drinking  countries. 
Instant  tea  and  tea  bags  are  contrib- 
uting to  the  growing  popularity  of  this 
beverage  in  the  United  States. 

Teas  may  be  selected  from  three 
classes:  Green  (from  leaves  that  have 
been  withered,  rolled,  and  fired  im- 
mediately); black  (leaves  have  been 
fermented  or  oxidized  before  firing) ; 
and  oolong  (from  partially  oxidized 
or  fermented  leaves).  They  are  usually 
imported,  blended,  and  packed  for  sale 
to  consumers.  Americans  have  pre- 
ferred black,  whole  leaf  teas,  particu- 
larly those  labeled  "pekoe"  or  "orange 
pekoe."  These  names  designate  the 
small  first  and  second  leaves  next  to 
the  end  of  the  tea  shoots.  Broken  and 
cut  leaves  are  utilized  in  tea  bags. 

Instant  teas  are  made  principally 
from  the  black  teas  and  are  available 
as  either  "pure"  instant  teas  or  with 
malto-dextrin  as  a  carrier.  Consumers 
are  sometimes  confused  because  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  the  light,  fluffy,  pure  form 
of  instant  tea  contains  the  same  amount 
of  extracted  tea  solids  as  the  heavier 
mixture. 

Like  coffee  and  tea,  chocolate  bev- 
erages are  made  from  imported  raw 
materials — in  this  case  dried  cacao 
beans.  The  manufacturer  cleans, 
blends,  roasts,  and  removes  the  shells, 
leaving  the  meat  or  "nibs."  These  are 
crushed  in  a  process  which  generates 
enough  frictional  heat  to  liquefy  the 
cocoa  butter  (the  nibs  average  54  per- 
cent cocoa  butter  content)  and  form 
what  is  known  by  the  industry  as 
"chocolate  liquor." 

That  portion  of  the  liquor  used  for 
cocoa  is  pumped  into  hydraulic  presses 
to  remove  the  desired  amount  of  cocoa 
butter.  This  leaves  a  pressed  cake 
that  can  be  cooled,  pulverized,  and 
sifted  into  powder. 

Breakfast  or  high-fat  cocoa  contains 
at  least  22  percent  fat,  medium-fat 
cocoa   (sometimes  labeled  simply  as 


"cocoa")  contains  10  to  22  percent, 
while  low-fat  cocoa  contains  less  than 
10  percent. 

Chocolate  may  be  treated  with 
alkali  to  prepare  "Dutched"  or  Dutch- 
process  cocoa.  This  makes  a  darker 
beverage  which  looks  stronger  but 
actually  has  a  milder  flavor. 

Chocolate  and  cocoa  are  often  used 
to  flavor  milk  or  skimmed  milk.  When 
milk  is  made  with  chocolate,  it  may 
be  labeled  "chocolate  milk."  Milk  or 
other  dairy  drinks  made  with  cocoa 
should  be  labeled  "chocolate  flavored." 

Cocoa,  because  of  its  popular  flavor, 
is  often  used  in  food  items  intended 
for  special  diets.  Some  of  these  items 
are  used  "as  is"  while  others  are  in 
dry  form  to  be  added  to  milk  or  skim 
milk. 

Careful  reading  of  labels  is  essential 
if  you  are  to  choose  wisely  from  the 
big  supply  of  beverages  and  beverage 
materials.  The  Federal  Food,  Drug, 
and  Cosmetic  Act  (FD&C  Act)  and 
the  more  recent  Fair  Packaging  and 
Labeling  Act  require  accurate  and 
informative  labeling  to  help  prospec- 
tive buyers  compare  and  make  wise 
choices. 

The  principal  display  panel  or 
panels  must  bear  a  prominent  declara- 
tion of  the  identity  of  the  beverage. 
If  the  beverage  is  standardized,  the 
name  is  the  one  prescribed  by  the 
standard  such  as  "orange  juice  from 
concentrate"  or  "club  soda."  In  the 
absence  of  a  standard,  the  designation 
must  be  the  common  or  usual  name, 
modified  when  necessary  to  indicate 
the  form  of  the  beverage  as,  for 
example,  "coffee — drip  grind."  Also, 
an  accurate  declaration  of  the  con- 
tents in  terms  of  weight,  volume,  or 
count  must  appear  on  the  principal 
display  panel,  usually  in  the  lower  30 
percent  of  the  panel,  printed  in  letters 
of  prescribed  height,  and  separated  by 
specified  distances  from  other  printed 
information.  Solids  are  normally  de- 
clared by  weight,  liquids  by  volume. 
Some  are  declared  by  count  and  the 
volume  or  weight  such  as  "100  tea 
bags — 8  ounces." 

Name  and   address  of  the  manu- 


facturer, packer,  or  the  shipper  must 
appear  prominently,  modified,  when 
necessary,  by  some  statement  such  as 
"distributed  by."  Ingredients  must  be 
declared  in  descending  order  of  pre- 
dominance unless  the  beverage  is  one 
where  they  are  specified  by  a  standard 
of  identity.  Standards  prescribe  which 
optional  ingredients  must  be  declared, 
if  used.  Always  the  label  must  state 
the  presence  of  any  artificial  color- 
ing, artificial  flavoring,  or  a  chemical 
preservative. 

If  intended  for  special  dietary  use, 
the  beverage  must  be  labeled  with 
information  about  its  vitamin  and 
mineral  content;  percentages  of  fat, 
protein,  and  carbohydrates;  the  cal- 
ories it  will  provide ;  or  other  informa- 
tion needed  to  guide  the  user.  Names 
and  percentages  of  artificial  sweeteners 
must  be  stated. 

Additives  are  sometimes  listed  by 
long,  formidable,  technical  names. 
Consumers  may  rest  assured  that  the 
beverages  containing  these  are  safe. 
Since  its  passage  in  1938,  the  FD&C 
Act  has  prohibited  adding  any  sub- 
stance which  would  make  the  bever- 
ages injurious  to  health.  The  act  was 
later  amended  to  provide  more  positive 
protection  by  requiring  pretesting  of 
food  additives  and  color  additives  in 
order  to  demonstrate  that  the  proposed 
uses  are  safe. 

Other  helpful  information  is  some- 
times found  on  labels.  They  may  bear 
directions  for  preparing,  recipes,  or 
information  about  the  number  and 
size  of  servings.  Most  milk  and  other 
dairy  drinks  are  labeled  "Grade  A" 
to  show  that  they  have  been  produced 
under  sanitary  conditions  and  from 
raw  materials  which  meet  standards 
recommended  by  the  U.S.  Public 
Health  Service  and  adopted  by  most 

U.S.  "Grade  A"  or  U.S.  "Fancy" 
markings  on  other  beverages  or  bever- 
age bases  indicate  that  these  meet 
the  quality  standards  established  by 
USDA. 

Factors  considered  in  grading  in- 
clude those  affecting  appearance,  like 
depth  and  brightness  of  color,  absence 

241 


of  flecks  and  excess  sediment;  and 
those  affecting  taste,  like  sweetness, 
acidity,  the  Brix/acid  ratio  (which 
measures  the  balance  between  sweet- 
ness and  tartness),  the  amount  of  peel 
oil,  and  other  characteristics.  If  a 
beverage  has  been  packed  under  the 
voluntary  inspection  service  provided 
by  USDA,  the  label  may  bear  the 
inspection  shield  showing  that  it  was 
"Packed  Under  Continuous  Inspec- 
tion" and  the  grade  may  also  be 
shown  in  the  USDA  shield. 

Value  comparisons  are  hard  to 
make,  not  only  because  there  are  many 
beverages  in  different  forms  but  also 
because  individual  taste  preferences 
or  dietary  needs  may  outweigh  price 
considerations.  A  coffee  or  tea  that 
makes  a  distasteful  brew  is  no  bargain 
at  any  price.  For  dietary  reasons  some 
may  choose  skim  milk  or  low-fat 
cocoa,  while  others  need  the  nutrients 
in  whole  milk  or  chocolate.  Prices  of 
diluted  juice  drinks  usually  vary  ac- 
cording to  their  juice  content.  Nutri- 
tive values  do  not  necessarily  vary 
proportionately. 

The  large  "economy"  size  may  cost 
less  per  pint,  but  offers  no  advantage 
if  much  of  the  product  deteriorates 
before  it  can  be  used. 

Available  storage  facilities  may 
dictate  the  form  or  the  amount  of  a 
beverage  to  be  purchased.  Frozen 
products  must  be  stored  in  the  freezer 
compartment,  which  should  be  main- 


Shopping  cart  with  cans  of  apple  juice  packed 
under  continuous  inspection  by  USDA,  shown 
in  Yakima,  Wash.  Note  shields  on  cans. 


tained  at  between  0°  (or  below)  and 
5°  F.  Milk,  orange  juice  (other  than 
canned  or  frozen),  and  opened  con- 
tainers of  other  beverages  should  be 
kept  in  the  refrigerator,  preferably  at 
a  temperature  no  higher  than  40°  F. 

Chocolate  should  be  kept  cool  to 
prevent  melting  and  should  not  be 
subjected  to  wide  swings  of  tempera- 
ture. Tea  may  be  stored  in  any  cool, 
dry  place. 

Coffee  is  more  difficult  to  keep.  The 
oils  and  other  constituents  that  provide 
its  flavor  and  fragrance  are  easily 
dissipated  or,  if  exposed  to  air,  are 
quickly  oxidized  to  substances  yielding 
disagreeable  odors  and  tastes.  In  con- 
trast, coffee  is  a  rare  treat  when  made 
from  freshly  roasted  and  ground  beans 
in  an  atmosphere  where  the  air  is  still 
full  of  the  rich  aroma  released  by 
roasting,  grinding,  and  brewing. 

By  the  time  most  roasted  and  ground 
coffee  reaches  the  consumer,  even 
when  protected  in  vacuum-packed 
containers,  much  of  its  aroma  and 
flavor  have  been  lost.  Once  the  con- 
tainer is  opened,  the  loss  speeds  up. 
It  can  be  retarded  but  not  stopped  by 
keeping  the  coffee  container  tighdy 
closed  and  stored  in  a  cool  place. 
Coffee  should  be  purchased  in  amounts 
small  enough  to  be  quickly  used. 

We  drink  tea  and  coffee  partly  be- 
cause of  the  stimulating  effect  of  the 
caffein  they  contain  (cocoa  or  choco- 
late is  mildly  stimulating).  If  we  want 
only  this  effect,  it  matters  little  how 
we  prepare  them.  We  might  even 
enjoy  the  dark  and  bitter  brew  pre- 
pared by  that  champion  tea-drinker, 
the  Australian  sheepman,  by  long 
boiling  of  the  leaves  in  his  blackened 
"billy-can"  celebrated  in  the  song 
"Waltzing  Matilda."  Most  of  us  prefer 
to  just  sing  about  "Matilda"  while 
drinking  tea  or  coffee  brewed  in  ways 
that  do  not  drive  off  the  constituents 
that  provide  pleasant  aroma  and  taste. 

Much  of  the  tea  and  coffee  served 
in  the  United  States  could  be  im- 
proved if  the  water  used  were  of 
better  quality.  Usually  we  take  what- 
ever comes  from  the  tap.  Vendors  of 
spring  water  no  longer  wander  the 


streets  shouting  "Tea  water!  Come 
and  get  your  tea  water!"  as  they  did 
in  pre-Revolutionary  New  York. 

Coffee  is  brewed  in  pots,  percolators, 
dripolators,  or  any  of  several  vacuum- 
type  devices.  Scientific  research  under- 
taken by  the  Coffee  Brewing  Institute 
since  its  formation  in  1951  has  shown 
that  to  make  good  coffee  you  should: 

Start  with  utensils  that  have  been 
thoroughly  cleaned. 

Use  freshly  drawn  water. 

Use  the  finest  grind  suited  to  your 
coffeemaking  device. 

Use  plenty  of  coffee;  the  standard 
proportion  of  2  level  tablespoons  per 
cup  may  be  increased,  if  so  desired. 
More  coffee  with  less  brewing  time 
usually  gives  better  flavor. 

When  you  use  a  percolator,  keep 
the  heat  adjusted  to  barely  percolate. 
Percolate  no  longer  than  5  to  10 
minutes. 

Keep  coffee  hot  over  low  heat  to 
avoid  boiling  and  loss  of  flavor. 

After  the  Mardi  Gras  balls  in  New 
Orleans,  it  is  traditional  for  partici- 
pants to  go  to  the  Old  French  Market 
to  enjoy  "cafe-au-lait,"  made  by 
mixing  equal  portions  of  hot  milk  and 
strong  coffee. 

During  the  gay  days  of  the  Old  Em- 
pire, the  Viennese  invented  ways  to 
serve  whipped  cream  with  coffee. 
Coffee  with  whipped  cream  is  still 
called  "Vienna  coffee." 

To  make  good  tea : 

•  Add  water  to  the  tea  as  soon  as  it 
comes  to  a  bubbling  boil;  do  not  let 
water  boil  since  this  drives  out  dis- 
solved air  which  helps  give  tea  its 
"bite."  * 

•  Prewarm  the  pot,  which  preferably 
should  be  of  ceramic  material. 

•  If  using  tea  leaves,  weigh  out  about 
one-third  ounce  per  pint  or  measure  1 
rounded  teaspoon  per  cup.  Use  tea 
bags  according  to  directions. 

•  Allow  the  tea  to  "draw"  for  3  to  4 
minutes  unless  milk  or  cream  is  to  be 
added,  in  which  case  it  may  draw  for 
4,  5,  or  even  6  minutes. 

•  Separate  the  brew  from  the  leaves, 
and  keep  it  hot  until  served. 


Sugar,  lemon,  cream,  or  milk  may 
be  added.  Cream  or  milk  mellows  the 
taste,  and  casein  in  the  milk  causes 
the  tannin  which  is  in  the  tea  to 
become  insoluble. 

For  iced  tea,  brew  5  to  6  minutes 
and  add  extra  tea  (4  tablespoons  tea 
to  3  cups  boiling  water). 

Hot  chocolate  or  cocoa  can  be  made 
from  these  recipes: 

HOT  CHOCOLATE 

6  servings 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 
1  cup  hot  water 

}i  cup  sugar 
Dash  of  salt 

3  cups  milk 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  water  in  top 
of  double  boiler  directly  over  low  heat. 
Add  sugar  and  salt;  simmer  4  minutes 
with  constant  stirring.  Place  over  hot 
water.  Stir  in  milk.  Heat  to  serving 
temperature    and    beat    with    rotary 

BREAKFAST  COCOA 

6  servings 
}i  cup  cocoa 

4  to  6  tablespoons  sugar 
}i  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  water 
3%  cups  milk 

Mix  cocoa,  sugar  and  salt,  pour  in 
water,  and  cook  3  minutes.  Stir  in 
milk  and  heat  to  boiling,  but  do  not 
boil.  Beat  with  rotary  beater  to  pre- 
vent scum  formation. 

Juices  usually  require  no  prepara- 
tion other  than  chilling.  If  ice  is 
added,  do  not  overdilute.  Since  sugar 
is  hard  to  dissolve  in  cold  liquids, 
sugar  sirup  is  preferable  if  juices  are 
to  be  sweetened.  Sirup  drained  from 
canned  fruits  may  be  used  for  this 
purpose.  This  saves  money  and  may 
add  flavor. 

Cookbooks  contain  pages  of  recipes 
for  punches,  varying  from  a  simple 
mixture  of  2  pints  ginger  ale  and  1 
pint  of  grapejuice,  to  some  involving 
many  ingredients  and  complex  mixing 
instructions.  Punchmaking  offers  am- 
ple room  for  study  and  imaginative 
experimentation. 

243 


Edward  R.  Thompson 

The  Pedigreed 
Pickle  Is  Here: 
New  Quality  in 
Old  Favorites 


Pickles,  relishes,  olives,  and  kraut  are 
good  by  themselves,  but  more  im- 
portantly they  make  other  foods  taste 
better.  They  can  add  sparkle  and  zest 
to  a  sandwich,  a  salad,  a  banquet,  a 
beverage.  They  can  provide  a  change 
in  the  texture  and  flavor  of  many  foods. 

America  has  always  had  a  fondness 
for  pickles  and  relishes.  "On  a  hot  day, 
in  Virginia,"  wrote  Thomas  Jefferson, 
"I  know  of  nothing  more  comforting 
than  a  fine  spiced  pickle,  brought  up 
trout-like  from  the  sparkling  depths  of 
that  aromatic  jar  below  stairs  in  Aunt 
Sally's  cellar." 

Pickling — to  keep  food  longer — is  of 
ancient  lineage,  along  with  sun-drying, 
salting,  and  smoking.  Pickling  is  still 
with  us  in  many  improved  forms  to 
provide  a  lengthy  list  of  delicacies. 

Perhaps  it  all  started  centuries  ago 
when  a  naturally  bitter  olive  fell  into 
a  briny  lagoon  and  was  found  to  be 
edible,  tasty,  and  nourishing.  Be  that 
as  it  may,  the  art  of  pickling  can  be 
traced  through  thousands  of  years  of 
recorded  history. 

Famous  people  of  all  eras  have  ex- 
pressed a  fondness  for  pickles.  Cleo- 
patra, we  are  told,  found  them  a  royal 
treat  for  flavor  and  zest;  and  believed 

244 


they  contributed  to  health  and  beauty. 
Pliny's  writings  mention  spiced  and 
preserved  cucumbers.  Napoleon  es- 
teemed pickles  as  a  health-giving  food. 

Queen  Elizabeth  I  was  among  the 
multitude  of  pickle  fanciers.  The  list 
continues  on  to  include  George  Wash- 
ington, John  Adams,  and  Dolley 
Madison. 

In  America,  the  pickle  patch  was  an 
important  adjunct  to  good  living  on 
colonial  plantations.  And  pickles  were 
highly  regarded  by  all  the  pioneering 
generations  because,  under  frontier 
conditions,  pickles  were  the  only  zest- 
ful,  juicy,  green,  succulent  food  avail- 
able for  many  months  of  the  year.  In 
colonial  days,  and  much  later  on  the 
farm  and  in  the  villages,  homemakers 
expected  to  "put  down"  some  pickles 
in  stone  crocks — and  to  "put  up" 
pickles  and  pickle  relishes  in  glass 
jars.  It  remained  for  the  commercial 
pickle  packers,  however,  to  utilize  the 
discoveries  of  scientific  research  in 
developing  the  most  perfect  pickles 
ever  produced. 

Pickles  are  a  product  of  natural 
fermentation — either  of  the  vegetable 
or  food  ingredients  or  of  the  liquid 
surrounding  them.  This  fermentation 
process,  carefully  controlled  by  the 
amount  of  salt  used,  the  temperature, 
herbs,  spices,  and  other  factors,  de- 
velops the  flavor,  color,  aroma,  and 
texture  desired  for  the  particular  kind 
of  pickles. 

Manufacture  of  pickles  has  moved 
with  modern  science  from  the  small 
plant  where  mistakes  were  often  made, 
quality  was  uncertain,  and  losses  heavy ; 
to  the  larger,  well-equipped,  sanitary 
food  plants  where  all  the  processes  are 
controlled  and  a  myriad  of  pickles, 
relishes,  and  similar  products  are  pre- 
pared and  attractively  packaged  for 
your  use. 

A  modern  pickle  packer  uses  vari- 
eties of  cucumbers  far  superior  to 
those  used  previously  for  pickling,  yet 

Edward  R.  Thompson  is  Assistant  Head, 
Standardization  Section,  Processed  Products  Stand- 
ardization and  Inspection  Branch,  Fruit  and 
Vegetable  Division,  Consumer  and  Marketing 
Service. 


manufacturers  strive  constantly  to  im- 
prove the  strains.  Soil,  rainfall,  and 
location  all  have  a  decisive  effect  on 
development  of  just  the  right  kind  of 
tender,  flavorful  cucumber  for  pickling. 
Agriculturalists  and  scientists  have 
supplied  growers  with  improved  vari- 
eties and  advised  farmers  as  to  the 
best  methods  of  planting  and  culti- 
vating in  order  to  produce  firmer, 
meatier  cucumbers. 

Cucumbers  are  picked  at  a  time 
when  most  of  them  are  of  the  sizes 
particularly  wanted  by  the  packer. 
The  bulk  of  this  work  has  been  done 
by  hand.  In  the  larger  "pickle  patches" 
of  today,  a  strong  trend  is  toward 
mechanically  harvesting  the  cucum- 
bers very  quickly  and  at  the  peak  of 
their  quality. 

Since  most  pickles  are  cucumber 
pickles  or  contain  cucumber  pickles 
in  a  mixture,  let's  talk  mostly  about 
them.  Because  of  the  way  they  are 
made  they  are  called  either  "cured 
pickles"  or  "fresh  pack  pickles."  Each 
has  its  own  characteristics  of  flavor 
and  texture. 

•  Cured  pickles- have  been  slighdy  fer- 
mented in  a  salt  brine  for  several 
months.  They  are  then  de-salted  and 
washed.  The  pickling  process  is  com- 
pleted in  a  vinegar  solution,  also  a 
fermentation  product,  and  seasoned 
to  give  the  flavor  characteristics  de- 
sired. The  curing  process  imparts 
subtle  flavor  changes  and  produces 
edible  acids  in  the  pickles  themselves. 
They  are  usually  crisp,  dark  green,  and 
somewhat  translucent. 

•  Fresh-pack  pickles  are  relatively  new 
in  the  market.  In  this  process  the 
cucumbers  are  packed  directly  into  the 
containers,  and  covered  with  a  pickling 
solution  containing  vinegars,  other 
acids,  flavorings,  and  other  suitable 
ingredients  to  give  the  desired  char- 
acteristics to  the  pickles.  The  con- 
tainers are  then  sealed  and  pasteurized 
with  heat  to  preserve  them.  Fresh-pack 
pickles  have  not  been  fermented  and 
retain  something  of  the  flavor  of 
fresh  cucumbers.  They  are  usually  a 
light  yellow-green  color  and  are  not 


usually  as  salty  or  as  acid  as  the  cured 
type.  "Fresh-pack"  is  often  shown  on 
the  label. 

In  modern  day  pickling,  cucumbers 
to  be  cured  are  hauled  to  salting 
stations  close  to  the  growing  regions. 
The  newly  harvested  cucumbers  go 
there  for  a  thorough  cleansing  and 
careful  sorting  for  defects  and  sizes. 
Speed  is  essential  while  the  cucumbers 
are  at  their  peak  of  perfection,  and  it 
is  provided  by  very  efficient,  modern 
machinery. 

For  cured  pickles,  the  selected 
cucumbers  are  put  in  a  salt  water  bath 
in  vats,  where  controlled  fermentation 
takes  place.  The  salt  is  added  gradu- 
ally, according  to  an  exact  formula, 
and  it  penetrates  the  pickles  slowly, 
evenly,  and  thoroughly. 

After  weeks  and  even  months  of 
such  curing,  the  cucumbers  are  called 
"brine  stock."  The  brine  stock  may 
then  be  removed  from  the  salting 
station  to  the  finishing  plant,  accord- 
ing to  the  plant's  schedule.  Cucumbers 
for  fresh  pack  are  hauled  directly  to 
the  packing  plant  since  they  must  be 
processed  within  a  few  hours. 

The  kinds  of  pickles  you  can  buy  are 
almost  as  infinite  as  the  kinds  of  cook- 
ing that  exist.  You  may  sometimes  be 
confused  by  the  number  of  different 
styles,  colors,  and  shapes  that  fill  the 
shelves.  However,  all  cucumber  pick- 
les are  related  to  one  or  another  of  an 
easily-remembered  handful  of  basic 
kinds.  Here  are  some  typical  varia- 
tions. If  you  keep  these  in  mind,  you 
can  easily  find  your  way  around  the 
pickle  department  of  your  favorite 
food  store  and  get  just  the  kind  you 
want. 

Dill  Pickles.  Dill  pickles  are  flavored 
primarily  with  dill,  an  aromatic  herb, 
which  may  be  supplemented  by  vari- 
ous mixed  spices.  They  come  in  three 
variations.  Genuine  dill  pickles  are 
prepared  entirely  by  a  lengthy  process 
of  natural  fermentation  with  the 
various  herbs.  Processed  dill  pickles 
are  started  as  regular  brine  stock,  and 
finished  later  in  a  dill  solution;  they 
possess     somewhat     better     keeping 

245 


qualities  than  the  genuine  dill  pickles. 
Between  these  sometimes  you  may 
find  an  "overnight  dill"  pickle.  This 
is  a  quickly  fermented  variation  of 
the  genuine  dill  pickles  produced  by 
stopping  the  fermentation  after  only  a 
day  or  two  through  placing  the  pickles 
in  cold  storage.  These  pickles  retain 
some  of  the  flavor  of  the  fresh  cucum- 
ber, along  with  the  dill  flavor.  Like 
the  genuine  dills,  they  are  commonly 
sold  in  bulk. 

The  label  may  indicate  that  many 
of  these  dills  are  "kosher"  or  "kosher- 
style"  pickles.  The  term  "kosher"  has 
religious  significance  in  accord  with 
Hebrew  law.  However,  in  the  United 
States  it  also  has  come  to  mean  that 
these  pickles  are  more  highly  spiced, 
including  onion  and  garlic  flavors. 
Most  dill  pickles  are  large  or  medium 
in  size.  They  may  have  been  cut  into 
strips,  slices,  cubes,  or  in  any  manner. 

Sour  Pickles  are  brine  stock  pickles 
which  have  been  finished  in  vinegar 
with  spices.  While  normally  packed 
whole,  they  may  be  cut  in  strips,  slices, 
or  in  any  manner.  There  are  a  number 
of  different  styles  such  as  sour  mixed 


pickles — produced  by  combining  sour 
cucumber  pickles  with  the  other  sour 
pickled  vegetables  such  as  cauliflower, 
onions,  peppers,  all  cut  into  small 
convenient  pieces.  Sour  relish  or 
piccalilli  includes  finely  chopped  sour 
pickles,  sometimes  packed  alone  and 
sometimes  with  other  finely  chopped 
sour  cured  vegetables.  Chow  chow  is 
similar  to  sour  mixed  pickles  except 
for  the  addition  of  a  mustard  sauce 
flavored  with  spices  such  as  yellow 
and  brown  mustard  seed,  turmeric, 
garlic,  cinnamon,  cloves,  ginger,  nut- 
meg, cayenne  and  black  and  white 
pepper. 

Sweet  Pickles  start  as  sour  pickles 
from  which  the  vinegar  has  been 
drained.  They  are  finished  in  sweet, 
spicy  liquors  which  are  added  from 
time  to  time  until  the  desired  degree 
of  sweetness  is  attained.  A  lengthy 
aging  process  follows.  Sweet  pickles 
are  available  in  many  variations  such 
as  the  following:  sliced  sweet  pickles, 
chips  or  wafers — plain  sweet  pickles 
cut  crosswise  into  discs;  candied  chips — 
extra  sweet,  sliced  sweet  pickles;  sweet 
dill   pickles — made   from   genuine   or 


Picnic  bean  dishes:  Dill  pickles  help  season  the  cold  salad  of  green  beans,  while  sweet  pickle  relish 
spices  the  made-in-minutes  baked  beans. 


processed  dill  pickles  instead  of  sour 
pickles  and  frequently  cut  lengthwise 
as  well  as  crosswise;  mixed  sweet 
pickles — sweet  pickles  combined  with 
other  sweet  pickled  vegetables,  such 
as  cauliflower,  onions,  sweet  pepper, 
and  green  tomatoes;  sweet  relish  or 
piccalilli — finely  chopped  sweet  pickles 
sometimes  combined  with  other  finely 
chopped  sweet  pickled  vegetables. 

Some  of  the  pickles  that  are  classified 
as  cured  type  are  also  available  in  the 
fresh  type  pack. 

Among  them  are  fresh-packed  dill 
pickles,  fresh-packed  sweet  pickles  and 
mild  sweet  pickles,  fresh-packed  sweet 
relish  and  mild  sweet  relish,  fresh- 
packed  sweetened  dill  pickles,  and 
fresh-packed  sweetened  dill  relish. 

Pickles  belong  to  a  larger  family  of 
foods  with  many  of  the  same  character- 
istics and  which  add  interest  and  zest 
to  your  meals.  Many  other  fruits  and 
vegetables  are  pickled  commercially 
or  by  homemakers.  Some  you  may 
find  on  the  store  shelf  are :  peach,  pear, 
crabapple,  watermelon  rind,  beet, 
onion,  okra,  peppers,  tomatoes — ripe 
or  green,  and  green  beans. 

You  may  also  find  a  variety  of 
relishes  you  might  remember  from 
childhood — or  perhaps  never  have 
heard  of,  such  as:  pepper-onion,  tomato 
apple-chutney,  tomato-pear  chutney, 
horseradish,  and  corn  relish. 

Sauerkraut  belongs  in  this  large 
family  of  foods,  too.  Good  sauerkraut — 
brined,  fermented  cabbage — has  a 
pleasant,  characteristic,  tart,  and  tangy 
flavor.  It  is  crisp  and  firm  in  texture, 
creamy  white  in  color,  and  free  from 
specks  and  core  material.  It  is  used 
hot  in  many  ways,  for  instance  as  a 
main  dish  with  meat,  or  in  most  of  the 
ways  pickles  are  used — cold  as  a  side 
dish,  in  sandwiches,  on  a  salad  plate, 
or  in  a  mixed  pickle  and  relish  platter. 

Cured  olives  also  belong  in  this 
family  since  they  are  used  in  much  the 
same  manner.  Serve  them  the  way  you 
would  cucumber  pickles — whole  or 
chopped,  sliced  or  stuffed. 

As  with  many  of  the  other  foods  you 
buy,  pickles  and  relishes  are  packed 
quite  often  according  to  U.S.  grades. 


These  grades  with  their  definitions  of 
styles,  forms,  and  kinds  help  manu- 
facturers to  properly  make  and  accu- 
rately label  the  products  they  offer  for 
sale.  U.S.  grades  also  help  the  store 
buyers  to  buy  what  they  know  you 
want.  Some  of  these  foods  have  on 
their  labels  an  indication  of  their 
grade — such  as  U.S.  Grade  A  or  U.S. 
Grade  B.  These  marks  show  that  the 
food  has  been  packed  according  to 
the  official  U.S.  standards  and  meets 
requirements  of  the  grade.  If  the  label 
shows  by  an  official  USDA  mark  that 
the  product  has  been  packed  under 
the  continuous  inspection  of  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture,  you  will 
know  it  was  packed  in  a  good  com- 
merical  plant,  in  a  sanitary  manner. 

When  you  make  your  selection  in 
the  store: 

•  First  look  at  the  whole  pickle  display 
including  the  product  as  seen  through 
the  glass  container.  You  can  usually 
tell  whether  the  cucumbers  are  whole, 
sliced  crosswise,  sliced  lengthwise,  un- 
evenly cut,  or  finely  cut  as  in  a  relish. 
You  can  also  choose  the  size  you  want. 
Cucumber  pickles  come  in  seven  regu- 
lar sizes  from  the  midget  to  the  extra 
large.  You  can  often  examine  the  jars 
of  mixed  pickles  and  relishes  to  see 
what  ingredients  are  used  and  in  what 
proportions. 

•  Read  the  labels;  they  give  much  use- 
ful information.  For  one  thing,  labels 
may  suggest  kinds  and  styles  you  have 
never  heard  of.  Information  on  the 
label  that  can  help  in  your  selection 
includes:  the  kind  of  pickles — sweet, 
sour,  or  dill,  the  size  or  number  in 
the  container,  whether  they  are  the 
cured  or  fresh  type,  and  the  amount 
of  product  in  the  container. 

•  Note  the  prices  asked;  they  vary 
considerably  from  item  to  item  and 
brand  to  brand.  This  is  often  because 
some  types  are  much  more  costly  to 
make.  Small  whole  cucumbers,  long 
processes,  and  more  costly  spices  and 
other  ingredients  are  reasons  for  higher 
priced  items.  They  may  well  be  worth 
the  higher  price  for  some  purposes. 
Small  whole  cucumber  pickles  would 

247 


not  be  a  good  buy,  however,  if  you 
intend  to  slice  them  into  a  salad  or 
a  sandwich. 

•  Buy  different  kinds  to  add  variety 
to  your  meals  and  to  learn  what  your 
family  really  likes. 

Most  everyone  knows  what  pickles 
and  relishes  can  add  to  our  meals — 
from  sandwich  to  meat  loaf  to  holiday 
dinner.  Perhaps  we  don't  know  every- 
thing they  can  do.  Here  are  some  ways 
you  can  use  pickles  and  relishes : 

In  the  lunchbox  alone  or  in  the 
sandwich  mix. 

A  sprinkle  of  chopped  pickle  or 
relish  in  almost  any  soup. 

Diced  in  stuffings,  meat  loaves  or 
meat  dishes,  fish,  salads,  creamed  or 
buttered  vegetables. 

Diced  pickles,  olives,  or  relishes  in 
scrambled  eggs. 

Pickles  or  their  liquids  in  sauces  for 
meats,  fish,  fowl,  egg  dishes. 

The  liquid  from  pickles  in  almost 
any  dressing  or  to  baste  the  meat. 

Wherever  a  bit  of  spice  or  herb 
flavor  is  needed. 

You  can  keep  pickles  and  relishes 
unopened  for  several  months.  After 
opening,  store  them  in  the  refrigerator. 
Natural  acids  in  the  food  and  the 
surrounding  liquor  tend  to  inhibit  the 
growth  of  molds  and  bacteria. 

Pickles  and  relishes  will  not  keep 
for  an  indefinite  period,  however.  Dis- 
card any  open  jar  if  the  product  is 
very  discolored,  if  it  has  an  offensive 
odor,  if  gas  bubbles  appear,  or  if  the 
product  displays  any  unusual  softness, 
mushiness,  or  slipperiness. 

Here  are  a  few  pickle  recipes. 

DULY  FRANKS 

8  servings 

%  cup  butter  or  margarine 

8  frankfurters 

V/2  cups  catsup 

Y%  cup  water 

2  teaspoons  (or  to  taste)  chili  powder 

%  cup  chopped  dill  pickles 

2  medium-size  onions,  chopped 

8  frankfurter  rolls 

Melt   fat.    Add    frankfurters;    cook 


over  medium  heat  until  browned  on 
all  sides.  Combine  catsup,  water,  chili 
powder,  pickles,  and  onions;  mix  well. 
Add  to  frankfurters.  Cook  over  low 
heat,  stirring  occasionally,  10  minutes. 
Serve  frankfurters  on  rolls. 

PICKLESICLES 

These  are  simply  the  largest  dill 
pickles  you  can  find,  with  ice  cream 
sticks  inserted  for  easy  handling  and 
eating.  Serve  them  nestled  in  a  big 
bucket  of  ice.  Just  for  fun  you  can 
paint  the  sticks  with  ordinary  vege- 
table coloring.  Instead  of  ice  cream 
sticks,  you  can  use  plastic  picnic 
butter  spreaders  as  handles.  Children 
love  picklesicles ! 

SALAMI  PICKLEWICHES 

Cut  large  dill  pickles  in  half  length- 
wise. Cut  two  pieces  salami  and  one 
piece  process  Swiss  cheese  to  size  of 
pickle.  Place  slice  of  cheese  between 
slices  of  salami  and  insert  in  pickles, 
sandwich  fashion.  Chill. 

CALORIE  COUNTERS'  STUFFED  CELERY 

6  servings 

%  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

}i  cup  cottage  cheese 

%  cup    (about  2    each,  2    by  %  inches) 

chopped  sweet  gherkins 
}i  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  chopped  celery  leaves 
6  celery  stalks,  cut  in  8-inch  pieces 

Combine  Worcestershire  sauce,  cot- 
tage cheese,  gherkins,  salt,  and  celery 
leaves;  mix  well.  Spread  cheese  mix- 
ture on  celery  stalks.  Calories  per 
serving:  about  29. 

WEIGHT  WATCHERS'  STUFFED  MUSHROOMS 

Mix  together  }i  cup  chopped  sweet 
mixed  pickles  and  %  cup  chopped 
apple.  Stuff  8  large  mushroom  caps 
with  mixture.  Calories  per  serving: 
about  23. 

For  further  reading: 

Pickle  Packers  International,  Inc., 
108U  East  Main  Street,  St.  Charles,  111. 
60174.  Various  consumer  and  recipe  bulletins. 


248 


Helen  Carlisle 
Richard  L.  Hall 


Be  an  Artful 
Seasoner 
With  Spices 
and  Herbs 


Spices  and  herbs  have  added  flavoring 
to  food  since  the  dawn  of  civilization. 
They  are  a  part  of  our  history — Marco 
Polo  and  Columbus  sought  them. 
They  are  a  part  of  our  literature — 
Chaucer,  Shakespeare,  and  Lewis 
Carroll  mentioned  them.  And,  of 
course,  they  are  an  important  part  of 
our  food.  Spices  give  their  distinctive 
character  to  spaghetti  and  chili,  to 
goulash  and  pumpkin  pie,  and  to  a 
variety  of  other  everyday  and  exotic 
dishes. 

We  often  use  the  word  "spice"  in  a 
very  broad  sense.  We  speak  of  the 
"spice  shelf,"  or  of  "spice  cookery." 
Here  we  mean  any  aromatic  fresh  or 
dried  plant  material  added  to  food 
primarily  for  its  flavor.  But  when  we 
speak  of  "spices  and  herbs,"  we  use 
the  term  in  a  much  more  limited  sense. 

Strictly  speaking,  spices  are  aro- 
matic natural  products  which  are 
the  dried  seeds,  buds,  fruit,  flower 
parts,  bark  or  roots  of  plants,  usually 
of  a  tropical  origin. 

Examples  include  pepper  (dried 
berry) ;  cloves  (dried,  unopened  flower 
buds);  cinnamon  (bark);  and  ginger 
(a  rhizome  or  roodike  stem). 


Herbs  are  the  aromatic  leaves  and 
sometimes  the  flowers  of  plants,  usually 
of  temperate  zone  origin.  Examples 
include  "parsley,  sage,  rosemary,  and 
thyme,"  to  quote  from  a  quite  recent 
popular  song. 

A  seed  is  the  aromatic,  dried,  small, 
whole  fruits  or  seeds  of  plants,  usually 
of  temperate  origin.  Examples  are 
anise,  caraway,  and  sesame. 

Most  of  these  products  are  available 
in  whole  and  ground  forms  in  cans 
and  bottles.  Or  you  can  have  the  fun 
and  benefit  of  growing  many  of  the 
temperate  zone  herbs  and  seeds  in 
your  own  garden,  although  their  flavor 
quality  may  be  unpredictable. 

Spices,  herbs,  and  seeds  owe  their 
flavor  to  two  classes  of  substances 
found  in  them. 

One  class  contains  certain  aromatic 
substances,  called  "essential  oils," 
which  are  responsible  for  the  aroma 
and  much  of  the  flavor.  Because  these 
oils  evaporate  readily,  they  are  quickly 
lost  from  ground  spice  unless  the  spice 
is  kept  cool  and  in  a  tighdy  closed 
container.  The  whole  spice  contains 
these  oils  still  trapped  in  undamaged 
cells,  and  it  retains  its  flavor  much 
longer. 

A  number  of  spices,  including  black 
pepper,  red  pepper,  and  ginger,  con- 
tain the  other  class  of  substances 
which  cause  pungency  or  "bite," 
bitterness,  astringency,  and  other  fla- 
vor sensations.  While  most  of  these 
latter  components  are  not  lost  with 
age,  the  evaporation  of  the  essential 
oils — due  to  age  or  to  poor  storage  con- 
ditions— changes  the  flavor  and  robs 
the  spice  of  much  of  its  original  value. 

At  times  spices  may  become  infested 
by  so-called  "stored  grain"  insects 
such  as  the  insects  that  attack  flour  and 
cornmeal.  Members  of  the  red  pepper 
family  and  some  of  the  dehydrated 
vegetables  are  particularly  prone  to 
infestation. 

The  consumer  who  is  interested  in 
maintaining  maximum  quality  on  her 

Helen  Carlisle  is  Home  Economics  Director 
and  Richard  L.  Hall  is  Vice  President-Research 
and  Development  with  McCormick  &  Company, 
Inc.,  Baltimore,  Md. 

249 


FancvTea  Bread,  above,  is  spiced  with  cardamom,  crushed  saffron,  and  mace,  and  the  bread  is 
glazed  and  sprinkled  with  decors.  Chicken  Breast  Gourmet,  below,  is  spiced  with  poultry  seasoning 
and  other  seasoning,  crushed  coriander  seed,  black  pepper,  whole  cloves,  and  whole  allspice. 


250 


spice  shelf  should  observe  the  follow- 
ing points : 

•  The  container — A  tightly  closed, 
screw-cap  glass  jar  is  best.  Cans  and 
cartons  are  inexpensive  and  convenient 
but  cannot  be  sealed  or  resealed. 
Apothecary  jars  will  keep  the  romance 
but  not  the  flavor. 

•  The  location — A  cool,  dry  location 
away  from  bright  light  or  sunlight  is 
best.  Enemies  of  flavor  quality  are 
heat,  moisture,  air,  and  light,  in  that 
order.  You  need  not  refrigerate  spices, 
but  the  spot  often  picked  for  conven- 
ience— over  the  range — is  the  worst. 

Under  average  conditions,  one 
should  expect  to  be  able  to  keep  whole 
spices  for  several  years — almost  in- 
definitely. Whole  leaf  herbs  are  some- 
what less  durable,  and  will  lose  their 
freshness  in  a  year  or  two;  color  often 
fades  sooner.  Ground  spices  are  seldom 
at  their  best  after  a  year.  Members  of 
the  red  pepper  family,  red  and  chili 
pepper,  paprika,  and  bell  pepper  flakes 
lose  quality  in  6  months.  In  warm, 
moist  climates,  as  in  the  Gulf  States, 
deterioration  is  much  more  rapid. 
Tighdy  closed  containers  in  humid 
climates  are  always  a  great  help. 

Good  seasoning  is  an  art,  but  easy 
and  fun  to  learn.  The  best  flavor  is 
one  so  smooth  and  well  blended  that 
individual  flavor  notes  are  hard  to 
pick  out  or  define.  We  have  all  heard 
some  appreciative  guest  say,  "My,  this 
is  good.  What  is  in  it?"  We  can  be  cer- 
tain that  if  the  flavor  were  so  strong  or 
simple  that  he  could  tell  what  was  in 
it,  he  would  not  have  liked  it  as  well. 

There  are  no  hard-and-fast  rules  for 
the  use  of  spices.  Two  general  hints: 

•  Experiment;  be  adventurous. 

•  Underseason,  rather  than  overseason. 

Beyond  this,  it  is  possible  to  list 
certain  general  groups  of  spices  which 
possess  flavors  that  lend  themselves 
especially  well  to  certain  foods.  Such 
a  list  suggests  some  likely  uses,  but 
every  spice  can  be  used  much  more 
broadly.  Desirability  of  each  use  is  a 
matter  of  personal  preference. 


"Sweet"  spices  include  allspice, 
cardamom,  cinnamon,  cloves,  cori- 
ander, ginger,  nutmeg,  and  mace. 
Poppy  and  sesame  seeds  are  in  this 
group.  Sweet  spices  go  very  well 
with  pastries,  fruit  dishes,  nuts,  and 
ham.  Of  course,  they  can  be  used  with 
good  effect  with  many  other  foods 
besides  these. 

Another  group  might  be  called 
"protein  spices,"  since  they  are  often 
used  with  meat,  fowl,  fish,  egg,  and 
bean  dishes.  This  group  includes  red 
pepper,  celery,  chili  powder,  curry 
powder,  marjoram,  monosodium  glu- 
tamate  or  MSG  (which  is  not  really 
a  spice  but  a  flavor  enhancer),  sage, 
mustard,  poultry  seasoning,  thyme, 
and  rosemary. 

"Salad  herbs"  go  especially  well  in 
salads  and  vegetable  dishes.  Basil, 
caraway,  celery,  parsley,  and  tarragon 
are  in  this  group. 

A  number  of"  seeds  are  frequently 
used  in  baking  breads  and  crackers. 
Caraway,  poppy,  and  sesame  seeds 
are  the  most  popular. 

Finally,  several  spices,  herbs,  and 
seeds  are  useful  in  so  many  ways  that 
they  belong  to  several  groups.  Among 
them  are  dehydrated  onion  and  garlic, 
oregano,  mace,  marjoram,  paprika, 
and,  of  course,  black  pepper. 

The  recipes  which  follow  illustrate 
how  spices  may  be  used  to  lend  variety 
to  food  that  would  be  rather  common- 
place without  them. 

EXOTIC  FRUIT  MEDLEY 

4  servings 

Sauce: 

}{  cup  packed  brown  sugar 

1  tablespoon  arrowroot  or  cornstarch 

I  teaspoon  lemon  bits 

I I  teaspoon  allspice 
}i  teaspoon  mace 

%  teaspoon  fennel  seed,  crushed 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
J4  cup  water 

Fruit: 

2  bananas,  cut  in  2-inch  pieces 
2  peach  halves 

2  pear  halves 

2  slices  pineapple,  cut  in  halves 

8  orange  sections 

12  Bing  cherries 

251 


Combine  ingredients  for  sauce. 

Cook,  stirring  constantly,  2  minutes 
or  until  thickened. 

Arrange  fruits  in  a  shallow  pan. 

Spread  a  part  of  the  sauce  over  the 
fruits. 

Broil  around  5  minutes;  turn  fruit 
and  spread  with  remaining  sauce.  Broil 
5  minutes. 

Serve  it  with  ham,  turkey,  chicken, 
tyr  pork. 

SAVORY  MUSTARD  SAUCE 

About  1}i  cups 

1  cup  packed  brown  sugar 

}i  cup  dry  mustard 

1  tablespoon  arrowroot  or  cornstarch 

Y*  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  beef  flavor  base 
Vi  cup  hot  water 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
2  eggs,  beaten 

Combine  sugar,  mustard,  arrowroot, 
and  salt. 

Dissolve  beef  flavor  base  in  hot  water . 
Add  to  sugar  mixture  along  with  lemon 
juice.  Mix  well. 

Stir  in  beaten  eggs  and  cook  over 
low  heat  or  in  double  boiler,  stirring, 
10  minutes  or  until  sauce  thickens. 

Serve  it  with  ham,  fried  shrimp,  or 
roast  beef. 


ORIENTAL  RICE 

6  servings 

3    tablespoons    butter    or    margarine 

Dash  cloves 

}i  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Yi  teaspoon  cardamom 

)i  teaspoon  allspice 

}i  teaspoon  saffron 

%  teaspoon  black  pepper 

2  teaspoons  garlic  salt 

2  tablespoons  instant  minced  onion 
1  cup  long-grain  rice 

3  cups  boiling  water 
Yi  cup  raisins 

H  cup  toasted,  slivered  almonds 

Melt  butter  or  margarine  in  large 


saucepan.  Add  cloves,  cinnamon,  car- 
damom, allspice,  saffron,  pepper,  gar- 
lic salt,  onion,  and  rice;  mix  well. 

Stir  in  boiling  water;  cover  and 
simmer  25  minutes. 

Add  raisins  and  let  stand,  covered, 
5  minutes. 

Sprinkle  the  almonds  over  the  top 
before  serving. 

BOHEMIAN  GOULASH 

6  servings 

2  pounds  round  steak,  cut  in  %•  by  Y%-  by 

2-inch  strips 
2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 
%  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  instant  minced  garlic 

2  tablespoons  instant  minced  onion 
1%  teaspoons  caraway  seed 

2  teaspoons  dill  seed 

l}i  cups  water 

Cooked  noodles  or  rice,  as  desired 

1  cup  dairy  sour  cream 

Brown  the  steak  strips  in  butter  or 
margarine. 

Add  salt,  garlic,  onion,  caraway 
seed,  dill  seed,  and  water. 

Simmer  for  1  hour  or  until  meat  is 
tender,  stirring  occasionally. 

Serve  over  noodles  or  rice  and  top 
with  sour  cream. 

For  further  reading: 

American  Spice  Trade  Association,  The 
Magic  of  Spices.  American  Spice  Trade  Asso- 
ciation, New  York,  1964. 

Claiborne,  Craig,  The  New  York  Times 
Menu  Cook  Book.  Harper  &  Row,  Publishers, 
Inc.,  New  York,  1966. 

Collins,  Mary,  The  McCormick  Spices  of 
the  World  Cookbook.  McGraw-Hill  Book  Co., 
New  York,  1964. 

MacMillan,  H.  F.,  Tropical  Planting  and 
Gardening.  MacMillan  &  Co.,  Ltd.,  London, 
1952. 

Muenscher  and  Rice,  Garden  Spices  and 
Wild  Potherbs.  Comstock  Publishing  Co., 
Ithaca,  N.Y.,  1955. 

Ochse,  J.  J.,  and  Others,  Tropical  and 
Subtropical  Agriculture.  The  MacMillan  Co., 
New  York,  1961. 

Parry,  John  W.,  The  Story  of  Spices.  Chem- 
ical Publishing  Co.,  Inc.,  New  York,  1953. 


252 


Food 
and 
Yoor 
Life 


Thelma  J.  McMillan 

Your  Basic 
Food  Needs: 
Nutrients  for 
Life,  Growth 


Think  for  a  moment  of  the  microscopic 
speck  of  substance  you  were  "The  day 
you  started  life  as  a  single  cell.  What 
you  are  today  reflects  many  things — 
how  sound  were  your  inherited  instruc- 
tions on  how  to  build  and  operate  a 
human  body,  what  has  been  your  life 
program  of  rest  and  exercise,  how 
good  have  been  your  medical  care 
and  community  and  personal  sanita- 
tion practices,  and  what  emotional  and 
intellectual  stimulation  the  environ- 
ment has  provided.  But  these  influ- 
ences alone  could  not  have  changed 
you  from  that  single  cell. 

Continually  through  the  years  the 
inherited  instructions  present  in  that 
first  cell  have  been  followed  to  re- 
arrange food  substance  into  the  living 
tissue  which  is  you.  The  process  never 
stops,  even  if  you  are  no  longer  in- 
creasing in  size.  Such  an  intricate 
system  is  possible  only  by  constant 
exchange  of  substance  composing  the 
cells.  In  this  exchange,  there  is  always 
some  leakage,  with  destruction  and  loss 
from  the  body  and  necessary  replace- 
ment from  food.  Bone,  fat,  muscle, 
organs,  blood — all  participate  in  this 
constant  change  of  material.  You  may 
be  an   exact  duplicate  of  what  you 

254 


were  a  year  ago,  but  you  are  to  a  very 
large  extent  of  new  substance. 

The  tools  to  carry  through  the  body 
reactions  have  come  from  food.  Some, 
such  as  the  vitamins,  come  direcdy; 
but  others,  such  as  the  hormones,  must 
be  made  in  the  tissues  from  food 
substance. 

Fuel  to  drive  the  reactions  comes 
from  food.  A  person  is  aware  of  the 
energy  it  takes  to  climb  stairs,  and  he 
may  recognize  that  energy  is  always 
being  used  by  the  heart  and  the  dia- 
phragm muscles.  In  addition  to  such 
muscular  activity  requiring  energy,  a 
myriad  of  invisible  chores  must  be 
done — moving  substances  through  cell 
membranes,  joining  molecules  to 
form  tissues,  collecting  waste  material 
to  be  excreted — to  mention  only  a  few. 

We  are,  in  a  very  real  sense,  what 
we  eat.  The  common  stuff  of  life  in 
the  cells  of  animals  and  plants  are  the 
nutrients.  Group  names  for  the  nutri- 
ents are  carbohydrates  (starches  and 
sugars),  proteins  (amino  acids),  fats, 
vitamins,  minerals,  and  water.  All  but 
the  last  two  exist  because  the  plant  has 
formed  them  from  carbon  dioxide  of 
the  air,  salts  of  nitrogen  and  minerals 
from  the  soil,  and  water,  with  the  use 
of  the  energy  of  sunlight.  Animals  live 
on  the  plants,  either  first  or  second 
hand.  The  job  of  a  person's  digestive 
system  is  to  break  up  plant  and  animal 
material  into  the  common  nutrients. 
This  includes  splitting  big  carbohy- 
drate molecules  to  simple  sugars  and 
splitting  big  protein  molecules  to  their 
constituent  amino  acids.  The  body 
absorbs  these  common  substances  and 
uses  them  to  form  and  operate  its  own 
structure. 

No  one  food  gives  us  the  nutrients 
in  the  amounts  we  need.  It  is  true 
that  the  amino  acid  assortment  in 
beefsteak  matches  that  in  your  muscle, 
but  what  about  the  mineral  for  your 
bones?  The  animal  bone  lies  on  the 
dinner  plate.  The  minerals  it  contains 
will  have  to  be  supplied  to  your  system 


Thelma  J.  McMillan  is  Professor  of  Food  and 
Nutrition,  College  of  Home  Economics,  at  Iowa 
State  University,  Ames. 


by  other  foods,  primarily  milk.  Neither 
meat  nor  milk  do  much  to  satisfy 
your  needs  for  vitamin  C — fruits  and 
vegetables  do.  Many  other  examples 
can  be  given.  Ultimately,  we  find  a 
mixture  of  plant  and  animal  products 
proves  most  successful  and  pleasant 
in  providing  enough  of  each  of  the 
nutrients  for  our  tissues. 

The  living  system  is  an  outstanding 
example  of  cooperation  and  inter- 
dependence. Each  nutrient  may  have 
its  special  part  to  play,  but  it  has  no 
independence.  A  change  at  any  point 
in  the  total  integrated  system  can 
bring  change  and  adjustment  through- 
out the  system.  No  sharp  dividing  line 
exists  between  structure  and  function 
of  the  body,  nor  even  body  substance 
and  the  fuel  supply.  Perhaps  no  ac- 
complishment of  the  body  illustrates  as 
well  the  multiple  and  interdependent 
action  as  does  the  resistance  to  infec- 
tion, in  which  many  nutrients  are 
involved  in  different  ways.  This  unity 
and  interdependence  should  be  borne 
in  mind  as  we  consider  the  contribu- 
tion of  various  nutrients. 

A  man  who  weighs  around  160 
pounds  may  be  made  up  of  about  100 
pounds  of  water,  29  pounds  of  protein, 
25  pounds  of  fat,  5  pounds  of  minerals, 
one  pound  of  carbohydrate,  and  one- 
quarter  ounce  of  vitamins. 

Only  the  vitamins,  in  their  minute 
amounts,  seem  to  play  no  part  as 
structural  components  of  the  body. 
Most  of  the  mineral  material  is  cal- 
cium and  phosphorus,  found  deposited 
in  the  protein  framework  of  bone  and 
tooth  cells  to  create  a  hard  tissue  able 
to  bear  weight  and  pressure.  Carbo- 
hydrate is  a  component  of  nerve  fibers. 

Fat  has  been  identified  as  a  struc- 
tural component  of  every  cell  wall 
and  every  membrane  within  a  cell. 
Perhaps  the  most  startling  observation 
is  that  about  half  the  dry  weight  of  the 
brain  is  fat.  In  other  parts  of  the  body, 
certain  cells  are  adapted  to  hold  large 
amounts  of  fat,  and  the  fatty  tissue 
which  they  form  helps  to  round  the 
contours  of  the  body,  to  cushion  and 
support  body  organs,  and  to  insulate 
the  body. 


Although  we  cannot  look  upon  the 
carbohydrate  and  fat  as  sources  of 
fuel  only,  most  of  the  body  content  of 
each  is  present  for  that  purpose. 

The  main  structural  units  of  the 
body  are  the  many  different  protein 
molecules  that  the  body  makes  from 
the  amino  acids  it  has  obtained  from 
the  proteins  of  food.  There  are  20 
amino  acids,  and  a  specific  protein 
will  contain  most  or  all  of  these  20  in 
certain  proportions  and  arranged  in 
a  certain  sequence.  We  can  learn  to 
choose  our  food  so  that  enough  of 
each  amino  acid  is  readily  available, 
but  we  have  to  depend  on  our  heredity 
to  know  how  to  arrange  them  properly 
into  the  proteins  characteristic  of  the 
different  tissues  of  the  body. 

Vitamins  and  most  of  the  minerals 
find  their  use  as  tools  for  carrying 
through  the  body's  reactions.  Usually, 
the  vitamin  will  be  combined  in  the 
cell  with  a  specific  protein  to  form  an 
enzyme.  The  enzyme  has  the  shape 
and  chemical  properties  to  bring  about 
changes  in  various  nutrients  and  body 
products.  For  instance,  in  the  daily 
activities  of  the  cell,  amino  acids  must 
be  joined  to  form  proteins,  proteins 
must  be  joined  to  form  cell  structures, 
food  fat  must  be  modified  to  one's 
own  tissue  fat,  energy  of  the  food  must 
be  made  available.  The  body  has  a 
tremendous  number  of  enzymes  to  use 
for  all  these  specific  reactions  just  by 
changing  the  proteins  combined  with 
the  various  vitamins.  Minerals  also 
play  a  part  in  some  of  these  enzyme 
systems. 

In  a  few  cases,  vitamins  and  min- 
erals are  parts  of  some  highly  special- 
ized substances  other  than  enzymes. 
Examples  include:  Vitamin  A  is  part 
of  pigments  in  the  eye  which  are  used 
in  vision;  iron  is  part  of  the  hemo- 
globin molecule  that  carries  oxygen  to 
the  cells;  and  iodine  is  a  part  of  the 
hormone  thyroxine. 

The  only  fuels  our  systems  can  use 
are  carbohydrates,  fats,  and  proteins. 
If  you  made  a  bonfire  of  dry  food,  you 
could  see  part  of  the  energy  released 
as  light  and  feel  part  of  it  as  heat. 
When  the  carbohydrates,  fats,  and 

255 


proteins  are  oxidized  in  our  bodies, 
energy  contained  in  their  molecules  is 
caught  up  in  the  formation  of  other 
molecules,  ones  which  will  be  involved 
in  muscle  contraction,  for  instance. 
Eventually,  much  of  the  energy  of  the 
food  does  escape  as  heat,  something 
we  are  aware  of  when  we  exercise 
heavily.  Carbohydrates  and  proteins 
each  provide  us  with  4  calories  per 
gram  of  the  nutrient  in  the  food,  and 
fats  provide  9  calories  per  gram.  (Both 
the  gram  and  the  calorie  are  units  of 
measure.  The  gram  is  a  weight  unit 
equal  to  one  twenty-eighth  of  an 
ounce ;  the  calorie  is  a  unit  of  measure 
of  energy.) 

A  mixture  of  these  three  fuels  is 
used  throughout  the  day  by  body  cells. 
We  are  choosing  to  eat  in  such  a  way 
in  the  United  States  that  about  10  to 
12  percent  of  the  fuel  is  supplied  by 
protein,  about  44  percent  by  fat,  and 
about  46  percent  by  carbohydrate. 
This  means  that  if  a  man  is  spending 
2,500  calories  per  day,  he  must  take 
in  about  480  grams,  or  a  bit  over  a 
pound,  of  fuel.  This  is  not  the  weight 
of  food  which  would  contain  the 
nutrients;  it  is  the  weight  of  the  dry 
nutrients  alone.  So  man  cannot  look 
forward  to  condensing  his  fuel  supply 
for  the  day  into  a  handful  of  easily 
swallowed  capsules. 

Water  occupies  a  unique  position  in 
the  health  of  the  body.  It  is  a  solvent 
for  most  molecules  and  permits  them 
to  interact  more  readily.  In  addition, 
water  makes  possible  the  movement  of 
materials  into  the  body,  out  to  all  of 
the  cells,  and  then  away  to  eventual 
elimination. 

Water  takes  priority  over  all  other 
nutrients  in  our  need  for  an  uninter- 
rupted supply.  The  amount  in  the 
body  tissues  can  easily  fluctuate  a  pint 
or  two,  which  means  that  the  weight 
will  fluctuate  a  pound  or  two  as  a 
result.  Heavy  loss  of  water,  as  on  a 
hot  day  or  in  a  steam  bath,  demands 
prompt  replacement  if  danger  is  to  be 
avoided.  Only  in  certain  illnesses,  such 
as  those  of  the  heart  or  kidney,  does 
the  amount  of  water  which  is  held 
increase  markedly.  These  conditions 


must  have  a  physician's  attention  to 
the  disease  rather  than  the  person's 
manipulation  of  his  water  intake. 

Both  the  food  supply  and  the  body 
regulatory  processes  affect  the  quantity 
of  a  nutrient  which  is  present  in  the 
tissues.  Compare  protein  and  fat,  for 
instance. 

Severe  limitation  on  protein  supply 
can  reduce  the  body  content  and 
stunt  growth.  However,  generous  pro- 
tein will  not  provide  short  parents 
with  tall  sons  for  the  basketball  team 
nor  the  office  worker  with  the  bulging 
biceps  of  a  weight-lifter.  Severe  limita- 
tion on  fuel  supply  leads  to  wasting  of 
body  tissues  and  starvation.  On  the 
other  hand,  when  the  intake  of  fuel 
consistently  exceeds  the  expenditure, 
no  apparent  limit  exists  on  how  plump 
a  person  may  become.  Another  con- 
trast can  be  drawn  between  vitamins 
A  and  C.  Beyond  certain  limits  of 
intake  of  vitamin  C,  the  body  content 
does  not  increase,  while  generous 
intakes  of  vitamin  A  will  lead  to  con- 
tinued increase  in  the  amount  in  the 
liver,  even  to  the  point  of  harm. 

That  amount  of  a  nutrient  which 
accumulates  in  the  body  as  a  non- 
functioning surplus  is  referred  to  as 
"stored."  Fat,  carbohydrate,  minerals, 
and  vitamins  A,  D,  E,  and  K  are 
nutrients  which  can  be  stored.  Protein 
and  the  water-soluble  vitamins — in- 
cluding thiamine,  niacin,  and  ribo- 
flavin— cannot  be  stored. 

As  more  of  a  nutrient  is  eaten,  more 
of  it  is  absorbed  from  the  digestive 
tract  into  the  body.  When  the  nutrient 
cannot  be  stored,  the  excess  of  the 
absorbed  material  is  excreted,  princi- 
pally in  the  urine.  In  the  case  of  the 
energy-yielding  nutrients,  protein  is 
not  stored  and  carbohydrate  is  stored 
in  only  limited  amounts.  None  of  the 
fuel  supply,  however,  is  wasted.  Both 
protein  and  carbohydrate  can  be  con- 
verted to  fat  in  the  body  and  may  be 
stored  in  the  fat  depots. 

The  concept  of  storage  can  be  mis- 
understood and  unwarranted  assump- 
tions made.  There  is  never  a  daily 
turnover  or  loss  of  all  of  a  nutrient 
from  the  body  cells.  If  any  nutrient  is 

257 


eliminated  from  the  diet,  the  amount 
in  the  body  does  not  immediately  drop 
to  zero.  Instead,  there  is  a  long  period 
of  slow  depletion,  in  which  the  body 
makes  what  adjustments  it  can  to  the 
stress  of  lack  of  supply.  Damage  slowly 
becomes  severe  enough  to  be  recogniz- 
able. The  supplies  of  those  nutrients 
which  can  be  stored  will  protect  the 
body  for  much  longer  periods  than 
will  the  available  amounts  of  nonstored 
nutrients.  The  ability  to  have  reserves 
of  nutrients  is  no  guarantee  that  any 
are  present.  As  with  your  financial 
reserve  in  the  bank,  a  period  of  deposi- 
tion or  storing  up  must  precede  any 
withdrawal. 

In  everyday  practice  of  good  nutri- 
tion, the  aim  is  to  operate  the  body 
close  to  the  top  concentrations  of  pro- 
tein and  water-soluble  vitamins,  and 
to  provide  for  reasonable  storage  of 
fat,  minerals,  and  fat-soluble  vitamins. 
Our  present  year-round  good  food 
supplies  make  this  possible.  Reserve 
supplies  in  the  body  are  called  upon 
when  the  intake  is  interrupted,  as  in 
illness;  when  the  demand  is  especially 
great,  as  in  the  periods  of  very  rapid 
growth  of  the  child,  pregnancy,  or 
sustained  activity;  and  when  loss  is 
especially  heavy,  as  in  the  drain  on 
iron  stores  caused  by  blood  loss,  or 
other  losses  during  illness. 

The  ability  to  build  up  stores  of 
certain  nutrients  is  a  mixed  blessing. 
With  continued  storage  of  excess  fuel 
intake,  the  result  can  be  obesity  and 
its  complications.  This  is  the  only  case 
where  the  unwanted  excess  has  come 
from  foods. 

Medical  reports  have  been  made  of 
people  who  became  ill  from  excessive 
intakes  of  vitamin  A  and  vitamin  D 
over  a  period  of  time.  The  toxic 
quantities  always  came  from  excessive 
use  of  concentrated  medicinal  sources 
of  the  vitamins.  Not  enough  occurs 
naturally  in  foods  to  be  toxic.  In  fact, 
vitamin  D  is  the  one  vitamin  which 
does  not  even  occur  in  our  foods  in 
particularly  useful  amounts,  and  its 
addition  to  milk  has  been  an  excellent 
health  measure  for  the  country.  Un- 
fortunately, vitamin  D  has  been  added 

258 


to  a  wide  variety  of  foods  on  the 
market.  It  is  hoped  that  in  the  future 
the  addition  of  vitamin  D  can  be 
limited  to  milk,  including  fresh,  canned, 
and  dried  milk.  The  amount  of  the 
vitamin  D  formed  in  the  skin  upon 
exposure  to  sunlight  is  never  a  part  of 
the  problem  of  excess. 

The  individual  minerals  vary  mark- 
edly in  the  amount  of  each  that  is 
present  in  the  body,  the  conditions  of 
storage,  and  the  possibility  of  harm 
from  excess.  It  is  the  trace  minerals 
that  are  sometimes  involved  in  prob- 
lems of  excess.  The  source  of  the  excess 
is  not  the  food  per  se,  but  some  con- 
tamination which  has  occurred.  We 
have  learned  we  must  protect  our  food 
supplies  against  contamination  with 
copper  and  zinc  resulting  from  incor- 
rect use  of  containers.  The  Food  and 
Drug  Administration  has  found  a  num- 
ber of  occasions  when  it  was  necessary 
to  identify  and  stop  the  flow  of  certain 
minerals  into  the  food  supply. 

Regulated  addition  of  iron  to  refined 
grain  products,  iodine  to  table  salt, 
and  fluorine  to  drinking  water  are 
necessary  parts  of  our  supplies  of  these 
nutrients,  but  it  is  a  mistake  to  assume 
that  just  any  amount  of  any  mineral  is 
beneficial.  Mineral  compounds  should 
never  be  handled  casually;  a  child  can 
be  fatally  poisoned  by  swallowing  a 
handful  of  iron  pills. 

Let  us  consider  the  possibilities  for 
a  person  to  select  a  food  intake  that 
will  not  provide  enough  of  one  or  more 
nutrients.  For  fuel  and  water  we  have 
the  sense  of  hunger  and  the  sense  of 
thirst  to  help  to  guide  us.  For  some 
nutrients,  our  need  is  so  small  in 
comparison  to  the  amounts  in  any 
selection  of  food  we  might  make  that 
we  always  have  been  successful  in 
meeting  our  needs.  Examples  of  such 
nutrients  are  the  vitamins  biotin, 
pantothenic  acid,  and  vitamin  £,  as 
well  as  such  minerals  as  copper  and 
zinc.  Some  nutrients  have  been  prob- 
lems in  the  history  of  man.  Certain  of 
the  diseases  known  through  the  cen- 
turies have  been  found  to  result  from 
marked  deficiencies  of  one  or  more 
nutrients. 


Following  is  a  list  of  the  historic 
names  of  these  deficiency  diseases  and 
of  the   nutrient   which   is   involved: 

Scurvy — vitamin  C ;  simple  goiter — 
iodine;  beriberi — thiamine;  pellagra — 
niacin;  and  rickets — vitamin  D  and 
calcium. 

We  have  inherited  no  name  for 
vitamin  A  deficiency  but  use  two 
terms  for  the  eye  symptoms  involved, 
night  blindness  and  xerophthalmia. 
In  recent  years  the  term  kwashiorkor 
has  come  to  be  accepted  for  severe 
calorie-protein  malnutrition,  typically 
in  the  very  young. 

The  historic  deficiency  diseases  are 
all  too  common  in  some  areas  of  the 
world  today.  In  the  United  States, 
classic  cases  are  so  rare  that  teaching 
hospitals  are  very  grateful  to  have  an 
occasional  one  for  young  physicians 
to  observe.  This  is  not  to  say  that  we 
have  yet  reached  the  goal  that  each 
person  receives  the  benefit  of  a  fully 
adequate  diet. 

Effects  of  different  levels  of  intake 
of  nutrients  upon  people  have  been 
studied  carefully.  Definite  benefits  to 
health  result  from  increases  in  the 
nutrient  intake  beyond  the  disease- 
prevention  level.  The  exact  point  at 
which  any  further  increase  will  bring 
no  possible  benefit  is  difficult  to 
establish  firmly.  For  these  reasons, 
recommendations  for  nutrient  intake 
made  by  nutritionists  include  what  is 
called  a  safety  factor,  an  amount  of  the 
nutrient  beyond  that  having  demon- 
strable effect.  This  is  to  provide  the 
margin  of  security  and  certainty  that 
most  of  us  like  to  have  in  everything 
that  we  do,  whether  it  be  in  highway 
driving,  family  financial  planning,  or 
swimming.  Too  large  or  too  small 
margins  of  safety  can  be  self-defeating, 
wasting  resources  in  one  fashion  or 
another.  The  establishment  of  dietary 
goals  does  require  carefully  weighed 
judgments. 

The  leadership  task  of  setting  rec- 
ommendations in  the  United  States 
is  entrusted  to  the  Food  and  Nutrition 


Board  of  the  National  Research  Coun- 
cil, which  periodically  reviews  the 
research  information  and  publishes  a 
table  of  Recommended  Daily  Dietary 
Allowances  for  the  nutrients.  The 
greater  the  difference  is  between  the 
recommended  allowances  and  the 
intake  of  a  population  group  or  an 
individual,  the  greater  the  need  for  a 
change  in  habits  of  food  intake. 

Many  people  in  the  United  States 
eat  food  which  meets  the  nutrient 
recommendations;  some  do  not.  It  is 
easy  to  evaluate  your  food  intake  and 
determine  the  group  to  which  you 
belong.  The  recommended  amounts 
of  the  nutrients  have  been  translated 
into  amounts  of  common  types  of  foods 
by  the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
in  its  Daily  Food  Guide.  Compare 
what  you  are  eating  with  this  guide. 
The  results  will  let  you  know  whether 
you  are  permitting  yourself  the  secu- 
rity of  a  generous  nutrient  intake. 

Evaluation  of  the  food  intake  alone 
cannot  be  used  to  provide  reliable 
information  on  the  existence,  cause, 
or  treatment  of  any  signs  of  ill  health. 
Such  information  comes  from  an 
evaluation  of  the  person,  the  intricate 
self  that  is  the  net  result  of  the  inter- 
action of  nutrient  supply,  heredity, 
and  environmental  influences. 

In  succeeding  chapters  of  this  book 
you  will  find  information  on  what 
nutrients  more  often  are  in  a  short 
supply  in  the  food  eaten  by  families 
in  this  country,  what  may  be  done  to 
influence  food  habits  so  that  the 
nutrient  intake  will  be  adequate,  and 
a  very  practical  guide  to  selection  of 
an  adequate  diet  for  yourself  and  your 
family. 

For  farther  reading: 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Food  for 
Fitness:  A  Daily  Food  Guide.  Leaflet  424, 
Washington,  D.C.  20250,  1964. 

Leverton,  Ruth  M.,  Food  Becomes  You. 
Iowa  State  University  Press,  Ames,  Iowa, 
1965. 

Mickelsen,  Olap,  Nutrition  Science  and 
Tou.  Scholastic  Book  Service,  New  York, 
1964. 


259 


Mary  M.  Hill 


Creating  Good 
Food  Habits- 
Start  Young, 
Never  Quit 


Food  habits  begin  to  form  almost  as 
soon  as  a  child  is  born.  They  result 
from  repeated  experience  with  food 
and  are  modified,  rather  easily  in  the 
early  years,  as  experience  changes. 

The  first  modification  is  in  spacing 
meals  to  eliminate  nighttime  feedings. 
Later,  a  variety  of  foods  are  added  to 
the  baby's  diet. 

Food  habits  the  child  forms  while 
very  young  and  the  modifications  he 
makes  as  he  grows  and  develops  are 
good  food  habits  when  they  meet  his 
current  individual  needs  for  nutrients 
and  for  food  energy.  The  child's  needs 
change  while  he  grows  and  matures, 
and  so  his  food  practices  need  to  be 
adapted  as  these  changes  occur. 

The  greater  the  variety  of  foods 
which  children  know  and  enjoy,  the 
easier  it  is  to  make  these  adaptations 
as  they  are  needed. 

There  are  several  conditions  in  life 
that  influence  the  assortment  of  foods 
a  person  will  eat.  One  is  the  socio- 
economic level  into  which  a  child  is 
born.  The  foods  a  mother  gives  her 
baby  must  be  selected  from  the  vari- 
ety of  foods  available  to  her  econom- 
ically. The  young  child  of  the  poor 
family  gains  experience  primarily  with 

260 


low-cost  foods.  These  may  or  may 
not  be  good  choices.  The  fact  remains 
that  the  variety  of  foods  that  this  child 
learns  to  eat  and  to  enjoy  is  limited 
by  cost. 

The  young  child  of  a  wealthy  fam- 
ily will  probably  have  experience  with 
a  greatly  different  variety  of  foods. 
Again,  these  may  or  may  not  be  good 
choices.  The  variety  of  foods  this  child 
learns  to  eat  and  enjoy  is  not  limited 
by  cost  but  undoubtedly  is  limited  by 
one  or  more  of  the  other  conditions 
of  life  that  influence  choices. 

The  ethnic  background  of  the  family 
influences  the  variety  of  foods  and 
the  methods  of  food  preparation  that 
the  young  child  experiences.  If  the 
family  came  fairly  recently  from  a 
rice-eating  country,  rice  will  probably 
be  one  of  the  first  foods  the  young 
child  will  learn  to  eat. 

Religion  may  also  influence  the 
variety  of  foods  that  a  child  experi- 
ences. Some  groups  forgo  certain 
foods  at  all  times  and  some  abstain 
from  the  use  of  particular  foods  at 
specified  times.  The  foods  that  will  be 
given  to  a  young  child  in  one  of  these 
families  will  naturally  be  in  line  with 
dictates  of  the  family's  religion. 

The  most  direct  influence,  however, 
is  the  parents  themselves — their  food 
preferences,  attitudes  toward  food, 
and  their  information  about  the  nutri- 
tive value  of  foods. 

It  is  extremely  difficult  for  a  mother 
not  to  communicate  in  some  way  her 
dislike  for  a  food  she  is  feeding  her 
child  because  she  believes  "it  is  good 
for  him."  Often  the  child  resists  this 
particular  food  even  when  the  mother 
consciously  tries  to  mask  her  own  lack 
of  preference. 

It  is  difficult  to  interest  a  small  child 
in  a  food  which  one  family  member 
refuses  even  to  taste.  How  often  that 
Johnnie  will  not  eat  a  particular  food 
because  his  father  complains  every 
time  the  food  is  served ! 

Sometimes  the  experiences  parents 


Mary  M.  Hill  is  a  Nutritionist,  Consumer  and 
Food  Economics  Research  Division,  Agricultural 
Research  Service, 


have  had  cause  them  to  severely  limit 
the  variety  of  foods  they  make  avail- 
able to  their  children.  For  example,  on 
visiting  a  school  where  an  informal 
breakfast  survey  was  in  progress  some 
years  ago,  we  found  the  school  nurse 
concerned  about  one  child's  breakfast 
records.  The  little  girl  reported  she 
had  cream  of  wheat,  brewer's  yeast, 
bonemeal,  and  rose  hip  powder  for 
her  breakfast  every  morning.  Investi- 
gation revealed  that  her  parents  had 
been  interned  in  a  concentration 
camp  during  World  War  II.  Upon 
liberation,  they  were  taken  to  England 
for  treatment  of  the  severe  dietary 
deficiencies  they  had  suffered.  The 
therapeutic  diet  included  brewer's 
yeast,  bonemeal,  and  rose  hip  powder. 
These  parents  wanted  to  be  sure  their 
child  would  never  suffer  as  they  had. 
This,  of  course,  is  an  extreme  instance, 
but  many  parents  today  limit  the 
variety  of  foods  because  of  their  beliefs 
about  health  and  the  wholesomeness 
of  food. 

We  have  named  several  conditions 
that  tend  to  limit  the  variety  of  foods 
our  children  learn  to  eat  and  enjoy. 
There  are  other  conditions  that  tend 
to  extend  the  variety  of  foods  that 
children  will  eat. 

Fortunately,  children  do  not  spend 
all  their  formative  years  in  the  confines 
of  their  homes  under  the  influence  only 
of  the  immediate  family.  Most  chil- 
dren, at  an  early  age,  have  experience 
with  other  children.  How  many  times 
have  you  heard  a  child  say  to  his 
mother,  "I  want  some  of  what  Janie 
has."  Often  this  is  an  opportunity  to 
help  a  child  learn  to  enjoy  some  fruit 
or  vegetable  that  has  been  previously 
rejected. 

As  the  child  grows  older,  he  has 
experience  with  other  adults  whom 
he  comes  to  regard  highly.  His  first 
teacher  often  becomes  important  to 
him.  If  the  teacher  has  a  wholesome 
attitude  toward  food  and  sets  a  good 
example,  she  helps  to  extend  the  vari- 
ety of  food  that  the  child  will  accept 
and  enjoy. 

Drastic  changes  in  the  food  supply 
also  may  extend  variety.  For  example, 


during  the  food  rationing  of  World 
War  II,  families  were  forced  to  use  or 
to  increase  the  use  of  foods  that  had 
not  been  on  their  usual  shopping  list. 
After  the  rationing  was  over  some  peo- 
ple, particularly  children  and  young 
folks,  had  discovered  foods  such  as  a 
variety  of  fish  that  they  could  eat  with 
enjoyment. 

Children  who  participate  in  the  Na- 
tional School  Lunch  program  often 
learn  to  know  and  enjoy  foods  not 
usually  available  to  them  in  the  home. 
Repeated  experiences  with  desirable 
food  practices  tend  to  help  the  child 
develop  good  eating  habits. 

Family  mobility  tends  to  acquaint 
children  with  a  wider  variety  of  foods. 
Fortunately,  families  usually  stay  in 
one  place  long  enough  for  the  family 
members  to  acquire  a  taste  for  some 
of  the  new  foods. 

If  an  individual's  food  choices,  day 
after  day,  fail  to  meet  his  needs  for 
energy  and  nutrients,  his  food  habits 
are  poor  and  over  time  will  cause 
health  problems. 

The  U.S.  food  supply  has  such  vari- 
ety and  abundance  that  food  combina- 
tions which  will  lead  to  an  adequate 
diet  are  innumerable. 

Acceptance  of  a  wide  variety  of  foods 
increases  the  likelihood  and  ease  of 
achieving  an  adequate  diet,  but  is  no 
assurance  that  such  a  diet  will  result. 
Some  information  about  combining  of 
foods  is  necessary. 

Nutritionists  have  translated  recom- 
mendations of  the  Food  and  Nutrition 
Board,  National  Research  Council- 
National  Academy  of  Sciences,  into 
servings  of  food  and  compiled  them 
into  reliable,  easy-to-follow  food  guides. 
One  such  guide,  "Food  for  Fitness — 
A  Daily  Food  Guide,"  is  available 
from  the  Office  of  Information,  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture,  Washing- 
ton, D.C.  20250. 

This  guide  divides  food  into  four 
broad  groups,  allowing  a  great  deal  of 
choice  within  each  group.  If  the  speci- 
fied number  of  servings  from  each  food 
group  are  eaten,  a  good  nutritional 
foundation  will  be  assured.  Extra  serv- 
ings of  these  and  other  foods  to  round 

261 


out  meals  and  to  meet  individual  needs 
for  food  energy  are  desirable. 

It  is  much  easier  to  develop  and 
maintain  good  food  habits  in  young 
children  than  it  is  to  correct  any  poor 
habits  as  children  grow  older.  Con- 
sidering the  way  most  people  in  the 
United  States  live  and  work  today, 
this  requires  the  concerted  coopera- 
tive efforts  of  all  those  who  deal  with 
children  at  meal  or  snack  time.  Here 
are  some  pointers: 

•  At  home.  Parents  profoundly  influ- 
ence the  attitudes  and  habits  of  their 
children.  Children  develop  preferences 
for  particular  foods  from  the  assort- 
ment of  food  served  them.  Likes  or 
dislikes  are  developed  upon  the  basis 
of  flavor,  consistency,  texture,  and 
the  like. 

All  food  rejected  may  not  be  dis- 
liked. Children  may  refuse  to  taste 
foods  they  see  other  family  members 
avoid  or  those  that  for  some  reason 
are  unappealing  to  them.  When  the 
latter  occurs,  it  is  wise  to  wait  until 
another  day  and  matter-of-factly  offer 
the  food  again. 

During  the  preschool  or  prenursery 
school  years,  parents  are  solely  re- 
sponsible for  providing  the  nutritional 
guidance  which  results  in  desirable 
eating  habits — setting  a  good  example 
and  providing  a  good  variety  of  foods. 
By  this  means,  parents  convey  to  their 
young  children  that  all  food  is  good 
and  should  at  least  be  tasted.  A  whole- 
some attitude  toward  food  and  a 
willingness  to  accept  new  foods  or 
different  methods  of  preparation  is 
the  first  big  step  in  developing  and 
maintaining  desirable  eating  habits. 
We  eat  food  because  it  tastes  good! 
The  fact  it  is  good  for  us  is  a  bonus 
rather  than  an  acceptable  reason: — 
to  young  children — for  eating  it. 

After  they  enter  school,  children 
continue  to  need  an  example  set  for 
them  at  home,  especially  at  breakfast 
time.  One  way  to  provide  such  an 
example  is  for  both  parents  to  allow 
enough  time  every  morning  to  eat  an 
adequate  breakfast  themselves. 

262 


Parents  influence  schoolchildren  as 
well  as  preschool  tots.  Parents  who 
are  permissive  so  long  as  suitable 
choices  are  made  often  find  it  easier 
to  guide  their  children  when  selections 
need  modification.  Boys  and  girls  will 
often  add  the  milk  or  fruit  needed 
to  round  out  the  meal  if  they  can  have 
the  "poor  boy"  or  "hero"  sandwich 
they  want. 

Learning  to  eat  a  variety  of  foods 
will  proceed  faster  if  parents  will  serve 
at  home  the  important  foods  studied 
in  school  or  that  are  included  in  the 
school  lunch.  Parents  can  also  help 
their  children  to  establish  good  food 
habits  by  encouraging  them  to  par- 
ticipate in  the  school  lunch  even 
though  the  children  may  not  yet  have 
learned  to  enjoy  some  of  the  foods 
served. 

In  recent  years,  mothers  working, 
consolidation  of  schools,  and  other 
changes  in  family  and  community 
life  cause  millions  of  children  to  eat 
some  of  their  meals  away  from  home 
and  often  without  any  supervision. 
Responsibility  for  the  food  habits  of 
these  children  becomes  a  shared  one. 

•  In  nursery  school.  Although  parents 
do  and  should  have  responsibility  for 
the  nutritional  health  of  their  children, 
the  nursery  school  can  support  the 
home  by  serving  for  meals  and  snacks 
a  variety  of  foods  which  contribute 
very  substantially  toward  meeting  the 
child's  daily  needs  for  nutrients  and 
food  energy.  Children  respond  better 
to  food  if  die  surroundings  are  pleasant 
and  the  adult  is  understanding  but 
firm  about  it  being  time  to  eat  together. 

Further,  the  child  should  have  an 
opportunity  to  participate  in  activities 
that  will  help  him  extend  the  variety 
of  foods  he  will  eat.  Tasting  parties 
and  games  at  snack  time  that  motivate 
the  child  to  taste  unfamiliar  or  pre- 
viously rejected  foods  are  very  good 
activities  for  this  purpose. 

The  greatest  contributions  the  nur- 
sery school  can  make  to  achievement 
of  good  eating  habits  are  (1)  providing 
well-chosen  foods  that  look  good  and 


taste  good  to  the  children  and  (2)  a 
continuing  wholesome  attitude  to- 
ward all  food  on  the  part  of  adults 
who  work  with  the  children. 

•  In  the  school  classroom.  The  class- 
room teacher  has  many  opportunities 
to  reinforce  good  teaching  begun  in 
the  home  by  including  at  all  grade 
levels  well-chosen  experiences  with 
food  in  the  classroom.  Accurate  nutri- 
tion information  suitable  to  the  age 
and  maturity  of  the  children  can  also 
be  presented  in  such  subject  matter 
areas  as  health,  science,  social  studies, 
and  language  arts. 

In  the  primary  grades,  it  is  im- 
portant that  children  learn  that  all 
food  is  good.  Up  to  this  time,  the 
child  has  had  the  opportunity  to 
learn  to  eat  the  foods  included  in  the 
family  food  pattern.  Now  he  can 
increase  the  variety  of  foods  he  knows 
by  becoming  familiar  with  those  in- 
cluded in  the  food  patterns  of  his 
classmates  and  the  children  he  learns 
about. 

The  teacher  takes  the  place  of  the 
mother  during  the  school  day.  Her 
enthusiasm  for  all  foods  influences  the 
children  to  taste  unfamiliar  ones. 

If  the  child  has  a  good  example  to 
follow  both  at  home  and  at  school,  he 
will  probably  enjoy  learning  to  identify 
the  various  foods  he  eats  and  to 
investigate  and  compare  the  flavors, 
textures,  and  consistencies.  It  is  not 
expected  that  he  learn  to  enjoy  all 
foods  equally  well  but  it  is  important 
that  he  be  willing  to  taste  all  foods 
offered  to  him.  If  either  teacher  or 
parents  display  a  poor  attitude  toward 
foods,  confusion  often  results  and  the 
youngster  may  limit  the  variety  of 
foods  he  will  eat. 

In  grades  four  through  six,  children 
are  learning  how  to  find  answers  to 
many  questions.  These  children  need 
the  opportunity  to  decide  for  them- 
selves that  food  really  does  make  a 
difference  in  how  one  looks  and  feels 
and  how  well  children  grow.  In  these 
grades,  nutrition  guidance  often  be- 
comes a  part  of  science  teaching,  and 


plant  growing  or  animal  projects  be- 
come a  means  of  learning  that  the 
kind  and  amount  of  food  eaten  are 
important  to  health. 

Children  of  this  age  often  resist 
getting  up  in  the  morning  and  tend 
to  dawdle  while  preparing  for  the 
day.  Thus  this  group,  especially  the 
older  ones,  often  alter  earlier  good 
habits  by  skimping  or  skipping  break- 
fast. Food  habit  surveys  of  school- 
children reveal  that  this  poor  practice 
tends  to  persist  on  through  the  school 
career. 

Simple  breakfasts  that  children  can 
safely  and  easily  prepare  for  themselves 
are  good  projects  at  this  grade  level. 
These  need  not  always  be  the  usual 
combinations  we  associate  with  break- 
fast but  may  be  planned  around  some 
leftover  food  basic  to  family  cultural 
patterns.  This  is  an  excellent  oppor- 
tunity to  teach  children  what  to  put 
with  the  preferred  food  to  make  a  good 
breakfast  of  it. 

For  example,  in  a  neighborhood 
where  many  Spanish-American  fami- 
lies use  beans  and  rice  almost  as 
regularly  as  other  families  use  bread, 
children  could  be  encouraged  to  add 
tomato  juice  or  some  other  source  of 
vitamin  C  and  a  glass  of  milk  to  their 
usual  breakfast  of  beans  and  rice. 

It  is  also  necessary  for  pupils  to 
learn  that  an  adequate  diet  can  be 
made  up  of  many  different  food  com- 
binations. While  children  are  studying 
other  countries  in  their  social  studies 
classes,  it  is  natural  that  they  should 
include  something  about  the  eating 
patterns  of  the  people. 

Teachers  who  have  taught  units  of 
this  kind  report  that  children  enjoy 
them  and  seem  to  learn  readily  to 
understand  children  of  other  nations 
and  cultures. 

Secondary  school  students  are  ready 
to  review  in  an  organized  fashion  the 
facts  they  have  learned  about  food  in 
the  elementary  school.  They  can  then 
apply  those  facts  as  they  gain  an 
understanding  of  the  processes  in- 
volved in  utilizing  food  to  meet  body 
needs.  Both  boys  and  girls  need  to 
develop  this  understanding  in  addition 

263 


to  some  facility  in  making  wise  choices 
for  themselves. 

Desirable  attitudes  and  habits  de- 
veloped in  the  elementary  school  years 
will  benefit  the  boys  and  girls  during 
adolescence  and  later  as  adults.  Un- 
derstanding what  happens  to  food  after 
it  is  eaten,  and  ability  to  select  meals 
which  are  good  nutritionally  and  a 
pleasure  to  eat  will  encourage  students 
to  continue  to  make  good  selections 
for  themselves  and  for  any  children 
they  may  have  in  the  future. 

•  In  school  feeding  programs.  Schools 
that  participate  in  die  federally  spon- 
sored school  feeding  programs  have 
an  important  resource  within  the 
school  for  providing  nutrition  guidance 
to  boys  and  girls.  We  know  it  is  im- 
portant for  boys  and  girls  to  acquire 
nutrition  information,  but  we  learned 
long  ago  that  being  told  what  to  eat 
to  insure  good  nutritional  health  does 
not  necessarily  result  in  better  food 
habits  among  children  or  adults  whose 
food  practices  need  improvement. 

Boys  and  girls  need  to  have  repeated 
experience  with  desirable  food  prac- 
tices over  an  extended  period  if  good 
habit  formation  is  to  result.  The  school 
lunch  and  breakfast  programs  can 
provide  children  this  day-by-day  ex- 
perience throughout  the  school  career 
by  serving  nutritionally  sound  meals 
that  children  will  eat. 

In  any  group  feeding  operation, 
whether  it  is  a  family  group  of  three 
or  four  persons  or  a  school  population 
of  300  or  400,  it  will  not  be  possible 
to  completely  please  everyone  at 
every  meal.  No  one  enjoys  all  foods 
equally,  but  everyone  can  learn  at 
least  to  taste  all  the  foods  served  and 
possibly  acquire  a  taste  for  some  pre- 
viously avoided. 

School  feeding  programs  continu- 
ally provide  opportunities  for  boys 
and  girls  to  eat  a  good  lunch  daily — 
in  some  schools,  breakfast  also  is 
served — and  at  the  same  time  to 
increase  the  variety  of  food  they  can 
eat  with  pleasure.  The  wholesome 
attitude  of  parents  and  teachers  to- 

264 


ward  all  food  and  the  pleasant  atmos- 
phere created  by  a  friendly  school 
feeding  staff  influences  students  to 
take  advantage  of  the  opportunities 
to  learn  to  eat  well  by  eating  the  good 
meals  available  every  day. 

This  learning  is  most  likely  to  take 
place  when  meals  are  planned  with  a 
realistic  understanding  of  the  children 
and  the  communities  being  served. 
Meal  patterns  prescribed  by  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture  assure 
well-balanced  meals  but  are  flexible, 
and  preferred  foods  may  be  included. 

New  foods  or  those  most  generally 
avoided  are  often  served  as  part  of  a 
lunch  featuring  hamburgers,  spaghetti, 
or  some  other  food  of  high  appeal. 
Thus,  the  principles  of  habit  formation 
and  learning  are  applied  along  with 
principles  of  good  nutrition. 

School  feeding  programs  are  most 
successful  when  parents,  teachers,  and 
administrators  understand  the  objec- 
tives and  problems  involved  and  co- 
operate by  giving  their  support. 

•  Snacks  at  home  and  away  from 
home.  In  recent  years  there  has  been 
less  emphasis  upon  the  advisability  of 
limiting  food  intake  to  three  meals 
daily.  One  or  two  additional  small 
meals  or  snacks  have  become  a  part 
of  our  culture.  Nutritionally,  this  is 
satisfactory  so  long  as  the  total  daily 
intake  of  food  meets  the  individual's 
need  for  nutrients  and  does  not  exceed 
his  need  for  calories. 

Unfortunately,  the  choices  often 
made  at  snacktime  are  relatively  con- 
centrated sources  of  calories  but  do  not 
contribute  much  to  nutrient  needs  of 
the  individual. 

One  way  to  improve  this  situation 
is  to  make  wholesome  snacks  available 
to  all  family  members  at  times  and 
places  where  snacks  are  eaten.  The 
family's  larder  should  include  good 
snack  choices  such  as  cheese,  peanut 
butter,  fruits,  raw  vegetables,  fruit  or 
vegetable  juices,  and  milk. 

Gathering  places  for  teenagers  and 
snack  bars  for  office  or  other  workers 
should  be  encouraged  to  at  least  have 


A  good  lunch  served  in  pleasant  surroundings. 


fruit  and  milk  vending  machines  as 
well  as  candy  and  soda  pop  vending 
machines. 

Food  habits  are  closely  associated 
with  the  individual's  sense  of  security, 
and  any  modification,  particularly  as 
he  grows  older,  will  require  strong 
motivation. 

Modifications  in  food  habits  need 
to  be  made  to  adjust  to  the  decreased 
need  for  calories  as  people  grow  older. 
The  number  of  overweight  people  one 
sees  is  testimony  that  they  have  failed 
to  make  the  adjustment.  For  the  most 
part  this  must  be  credited  to  lack  of 
motivation  rather  than  lack  of  infor- 
mation. How  to  motivate  people  to 
make  these  adjustments  is  still  an  area 
that  needs  further  study. 

Some  people  are  meeting  their  need 
for  calories — are  not  overweight — but 


are  eating  a  combination  of  foods  that 
do  not  supply  recommended  amounts 
of  all  nutrients.  It  is  difficult  for  such 
individuals  to  see  a  need  for  change 
inasmuch  as  they  maintain  a  desirable 
weight  and  thus  do  not  associate  any 
symptoms  of  poor  health  they  may 
have  with  eating  habits.  Cause  and 
effect  are  not  easily  demonstrated. 

Much  needs  to  be  learned  about 
how  to  help  people  make  modifica- 
tions when  they  are  needed.  We  do 
know,  however,  that  those  who  have 
a  good  attitude  toward  all  food,  a 
spirit  of  adventure  that  prompts  them 
to  taste  new  foods  or  to  try  new 
methods  of  food  preparation,  can  ad- 
just more  easily  to  modifications  in 
diet  whether  for  health  reasons  or  as 
a  result  of  limited  availability  of  foods 
familiar  to  them. 

265 


Faith  Clark 


A  Scorecard 
on  How  We 
Americans 
Are  Ealing 


The  average  American  diet,  as  meas- 
ured by  the  food  available  for  con- 
sumption, is  varied  and  sufficient  to 
feed  our  population  well. 

Amounts  of  food  estimated  to  have 
been  used  per  person  per  day  in  spring 
1965,  the  date  of  our  latest  household 
food  consumption  survey,  were  10^ 
ounces  of  meat,  poultry,  and  fish  (or 
enough  for  about  two  servings  a  day) ; 
about  one  egg;  nearly  2%  cups  of 
milk  or  its  equivalent  in  milk  products ; 
close  to  4  ounces  of  potatoes  and 
sweetpotatoes ;  and  a  litde  over  a 
pound  of  vegetables  and  fruit,  includ- 
ing juices. 

Also,  about  3%  slices  of  bread  and 
2%  ounces  of  other  bakery  products; 
around  3  ounces  of  flour  and  other 
cereal  products;  2%  ounces  of  sugar 
and  other  sweets;  nearly  2  ounces  of 
fats,  oils,  and  salad  dressings;  plus 
beverages,  nuts,  mixtures,  and  condi- 
ments. Some  of  these  are  wasted,  of 
course,  but,  even  at  that,  the  amounts 
would  appear  to  be  generous. 

All  this  provides  plenty  of  calories, 
protein,  minerals,  and  vitamins  to 
meet  the  goals  set  by  nutrition  special- 
ists. This  does  not  mean,  however, 
that  everyone  in  the  Nation  is  well  fed. 

266 


There  is  great  variation  in  the 
amounts  of  foods  used  by  individuals 
within  each  household  and  by  different 
groups  of  households.  One  of  the 
principal  factors  affecting  the  kinds 
and  amounts  of  foods  that  people  eat 
is  their  purchasing  power — roughly 
equated  with  income.  But  the  other 
important  factors  are  the  habits  and 
preferences  that  influence  choice — a 
complex  set  of  conditions  that  result 
from  people's  education,  sociological 
backgrounds,  and  situations. 

Comparisons  of  present-day  food 
consumption  are  available  with  earlier 
years  and  with  other  countries.  A  few 
facts  help  to  place  our  present-day 
pattern  in  perspective  before  we  go  on 
to  answer  the  question  "How  Well  Are 
Americans  Eating?" 

One  of  the  most  notable  changes  in 
our  food  consumption  in  recent  years 
has  been  the  increase  in  use  of  meat. 
Meat  is  one  of  our  most  preferred 
foods.  When  there  is  more  money  to 
spend,  some  of  it  is  likely  to  be  spent 
for  meat,  poultry,  or  fish.  In  our 
statistics  we  frequendy  group  these 
main  dish  items  together. 

In  the  last  two  decades  production 
of  meat  and  poultry  on  a  per  capita 
basis  has  increased  substantially.  We 
have  also  had  an  increase  in  real 
incomes  in  the  United  States.  As  a 
result,  families  at  all  incomes  have 
shared  in  the  increased  consumption. 
By  spring  1965,  urban  families  in  the 
lowest  third  of  the  income  distribution 
were  consuming  more  meat,  poultry, 
and  fish  than  families  in  the  highest 
third  did  in  spring  1942.  And  wartime 
rationing  of  meat  was  not  in  effect 
at  that  time  in  1942. 

Milk  and  milk  products  have  not 
risen  much  in  consumption  as  have 
meat,  poultry,  and  fish.  In  fact,  there 
was  a  decrease  in  the  amounts  used  by 
the  families  at  all  three  income  levels 
between  1955  (when  a  survey  was 
made)  and  1965. 

Consumption  of  grain  products  has 

Faith  Clark  is  Director,  Consumer  and  Food 
Economics  Research  Division,  Agricultural  Re- 
search Service.  She  has  taken  part  in  Jive  nationwide 
food  consumption  surveys. 


decreased  slightly  at  all  income  levels. 
Potatoes  also  have  declined,  but  the 
use  of  more  processed  potatoes  in 
recent  years  has  helped  stem  the  drop 
in  consumption.  There  have  been 
slight  downward  shifts  in  use  of  other 
vegetables  and  fruits  since  the  end  of 
World  War  II.  Increases  in  consump- 
tion of  processed  products  have  not 
made  up  for  the  decreases  in  use  of 
fresh  products. 

Higher  income  families  consume 
more  of  meat,  poultry,  and  fish,  milk 
and  milk  products,  and  fruits  and 
vegetables  than  do  the  lower  income 
families.  Grain  products  are  used  in 
larger  amounts  by  low  income  families. 
There  is  relatively  little  difference  in 
the  use  of  potatoes.  These  are  broad 
generalizations,  however.  There  are 
many  exceptions  of  individual  foods 
within  these  major  groupings. 

U.S.  food  supplies  are  abundant  and 
generous  in  animal  products  compared 
with  those  of  many  countries.  The 
latest  World  Food  Survey  made  by  the 
United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  shows  that  amounts  of 
animal  protein  ranged  from  8  grams 
per  person  per  day  in  the  Far  East  and 
14  grams  in  the  Near  East  to  62  grams 
in  Oceania  and  66  grams  in  North 
America. 

But  even  in  this  affluent  country, 
not  all  share  in  our  abundance.  From 
a  nutritional  standpoint,  many  make 
poor  choices  although  they  could  well 
afford  to  make  selections  that  would 
be  rated  nutritionally  good. 

In  our  recent  nationwide  survey  we 
found  that  about  half  of  the  U.S. 
households  had  food  supplies  that  we 
described  as  good,  that  is,  they  met  the 
Recommended  Dietary  Allowances 
(RDA's)  of  the  Food  and  Nutrition 
Board  for  seven  nutrients.  About  a 
fifth  had  food  supplies  that  we  called 
poor- — because  they  furnished  less  than 
two-thirds  of  the  RDA's  in  one  or 
more  of  these  seven  nutrients.  The 
remainder  were  fail* — somewhere  in 
between  good  and  poor. 

Note  that  we  are  not  saying  that 
the  fifth  with  poor  diets  were  hungry 
or  malnourished.   Poor  diets  in  the 


long  term  are,  usually,  conducive  to 
poor  nutrition,  but  the  occurrence  of 
poor  diets  is  not  synonymous  with 
hunger  or  malnutrition.  There  is  no 
way  to  relate  the  findings  from  our 
food  consumption  studies  directly  to 
malnutrition  and  the  health  of  the 
American  people.  It  was  not  designed 
for  that  purpose.  Physical  examina- 
tions and  biochemical  tests  would  have 
been  needed. 

So  far,  we  have  been  citing  statistics 
based  on  household  food  supplies.  In 
measuring  such  supplies  we  have  not 
been  able  to  allow  for  waste  nor  have 
we  allowed  for  differences  in  the  con- 
sumption of  food  and  in  the  needs  of 
household  members. 

At  the  time  of  the  survey  of  house- 
hold food  usage  in  a  week,  we  also 
obtained  information  on  food  intake  of 
members  of  the  families  during  the  24 
hours  preceding  the  time  the  inter- 
viewers called  at  their  home.  This 
information  has  been  tabulated  and 
provides,  for  the  first  time,  a  national 
profile  of  the  foods  eaten  by  men, 
women,  and  children  of  different  ages. 

With  some  15,000  in  the  survey, 
representing  almost  200  million  of  us 
living  in  housekeeping  households,  it 
is  not  easy,  however,  to  reduce  the 
statistics  to  neat  pictures  of  a  typical 
breakfast,  lunch,  and  dinner.  For  one 
thing,  people  eat  much  more  fre- 
quently than  three  times  a  day.  In 
1965  we  found  that  16  percent  of  the 
men  20  to  34  years  of  age  had  some- 
thing to  eat  or  drink  six  or  more  times 
a  day.  The  proportion  decreased  with 
age — 13  percent  for  men  35  to  64  and 
5  percent  for  men  65  years  and  older. 
The  percentages  were  only  slightly 
smaller  for  women. 

Describing  a  representative  or  aver- 
age breakfast,  noon,  or  evening  meal 
is  almost  impossible.  The  best  we  can 
do  is  to  add  together  foods  that  are 
either  used  interchangeably  in  meals 
or  have  like  nutritive  value. 

Some  of  the  chief  factors  that  affect 
the  kinds  and  amounts  of  food  indi- 
viduals eat  are  their  sex,  age,  size,  and 
activity;  their  incomes  and  ability  to 
buy;  their  food  choices  and  habits, 

267 


MEAT,  POULTRY,  FISH 
Quantity  per  Person  in  a  Day 

U.S.  DIETS  OF  MEN,  WOMEN,  AND  CHILDREN,  ONE  DAY  IN  SPRING  196S 

Age  in  Years 


150       200      250       300 
Grams 


siderably  higher  than  amounts  eaten 
by  either  younger  or  older  males.  The 
peak  years  for  grain  products  are  a 
little  earlier — between  15  and  20  years 
of  age.  For  beverages  other  than  milk 
and  fruit  juices,  the  years  between  20 
and  55  are  the  highest.  For  milk  and 
milk  products,  the  largest  use  after 
infancy  is  by  boys  between  9  and  20. 
After  20  years,  consumption  drops 
off  sharply. 

For  females  there  tends  to  be  less  dif- 
ference between  age  groups  in  amounts 
of  food  eaten  than  for  males.  For  exam- 
ple, the  average  amounts  of  meat, 
poultry,  and  fish  eaten  by  girls  and 
women  between  the  age  of  12  and  74 
differ  relatively  little.  The  peak  years 
for  grain  products  are  12  to  14.  From 
age  15  years  and  on,  consumption 
drops  slightly.  Beverages  other  than 
milk  and  juices,  though  generally  used 
in  smaller  amounts  by  females  than 
males,  show  much  the  same  consump- 
tion pattern  by  age  for  the  two  sexes. 
Use  of  milk  and  milk  products  by  girls 


which  are  in  turn  affected  by  ethnic 
background;  and  many  other  condi- 
tions affecting  family  and  childhood 
patterns  of  living. 

Always  important,  as  we  have  already 
emphasized,  is  the  availability  of  foods 
in  markets  or  from  the  home  farm  or 
garden. 

Our  nationwide  survey  of  the  food 
intake  of  individuals  in  1965  showed 
that  men  and  boys  eat  larger  quan- 
tities of  most  types  of  foods  than 
women  and  girls  of  the  same  age.  This 
is  especially  true  for  bread,  other  baked 
goods  and  cereals;  meat,  poultry,  and 
fish;  fats  and  oils;  and  sugars  and 
sweets.  For  vegetables  and  fruits,  there 
is  less  difference. 

Average  amounts  of  all  foods  used 
by  men  and  women  20  to  34  years  of 
age  are  shown  in  the  table  on  p.  272. 

For  most  foods,  consumption  peaks 
for  males  in  their  late  teens  and  early 
adulthood.  For  example,  the  average 
amount  of  meat,  poultry,  and  fish 
eaten  by  men  20  to  34  years  is  con- 

268 


GRAIN  PRODUCTS  (FLOUR  EQUIVALENT) 
Quantity  per  Person  in  a  Day 

U.S.  DIETS  OF  MEN,  WOMEN,  AND  CHILDREN.  ONE  DAY  IN  SPRING  1965 

Age  in  Years 
Under  1  year 


18-19 


20-34 


55-64 


and  women  declines  consistently  be- 
yond the  9  to  1 1  age  group.  The  low 
point  is  reached  at  the  35  to  54  year 
age  group,  with  a  slight  upturn  after  55. 
Vegetables  and  fruits  are  used  in 
quite  similar  amounts  by  adults  of  dif- 
ferent age  groups.  There  is  less  regu- 
larity to  patterns  of  use,  partly  because 
it  is  more  difficult  to  summarize  types 
and  amounts  used. 

In  judging  how  well  people  eat  in 
our  research  studies,  we  take  into  ac- 
count the  Recommended  Dietary  Al- 
lowances for  each  of  22  different  sex 
and  age  groups.  These  are  the  same 
guides  for  good  nutrition  established 
by  the  Food  and  Nutrition  Board  of 
the  National  Academy  of  Sciences — 
National  Research  Council  which  we 
use  in  judging  the  nutritional  quality 
of  household  diets. 

When  the  total  amounts  of  each 
nutrient  in  the  average  diets  of  these 
22  groups — as  revealed  by  the  1965 
survey — were  compared  with  the  Rec- 


VEGETABLES  AND  FRUITS 
Quantity  per  Person  in  a  Day 

U.S.  DIETS  OF  MEN,  WOMEN,  AND  CHILDREN,  ONE  DAY  IN  SPRING  1965 

Age  in  Years 
Under  1  year 


12-14 


35-54 


65-74 


MILK  AND  MILK  PRODUCTS  (CALCIUM  EQUIVALENT) 
Quantity  per  Person  in  a  Day 

U.S.  DIETS  OF  MEN,  WOMEN,  AND  CHILDREN,  ONE  DAY  IN  SPRING  19S5 


Age  in  Years 
Under  1  year 


75  and  ever 


MALE  AND  FEMALE 


400  600 

Grants 


ommended  Dietary  Allowances,  the 
results  showed  that: 

Average  diets  for  most  sex-age  groups 
approached  or  were  above  the  Recom- 
mended Dietary  Allowances  for  calo- 
ries and  five  of  the  seven  nutrients 
we  studied:  protein,  vitamin  A  value, 
thiamine,  riboflavin,  and  ascorbic  acid. 

Calcium  and  iron  furnished  by  the 
day's  food,  however,  were  more  than 
30  percent  below  recommended  al- 
lowances for  several  groups,  especially 
of  girls  and  women.  The  iron  in  diets 
of  infants  and  children  under  3  years 
was  50  percent  below  recommended 
amounts.  However,  the  Food  and  Nu- 
trition Board  does  not  expect  the 
recommended  allowances  for  iron  for 
some  age  groups  to  be  met  by  ordinary 
food  products.  The  Board  does  expect 
ordinary  diets  to  provide  at  least  6 
milligrams  per  1,000  calories.  That 
level  was  not  reached  in  the  diets  of 
children  1  through  8  years  and  of 
boys  and  girls   9   through   19  years. 

In  general  we  found  that  the  diets  of 

269 


Sex-Age 
Group 


MALE  AND  FEMALE: 
Under  1  year 
1-  2  years 
3-  5  years 
6-  8  years 

MALE: 
9-11  years 
12-14  years 
15-17  years 
18-19  years 
20-34  years 
35-54  years 
55-64  years 
65-74  years 
75  years  and  over 

FEMALE: 
9-11  years 
12-14  years 
15-17  years 
18-19  years 
20-34  years 
35-54  years 
55-64  years 
65-74  years 
75  years  and  over 


NUTRIENT  INTAKE  BELOW  RECOMMENDED  ALLOWANCE 
Average  Intake  of  Group  Below  Recommended  Dietary  Allowance,  NAS-NCR,  1968 


U.S.  DIETS  OF  MEN.  WOMEN,  AND  CHILDREN,  ONE  DAY  IN  SPRING  1965 

Vitamin  A 
value 


Ascorbic 
acid 


•  •  •  • 

•  •  •  • 


•  •  • 


•  •  •  < 

•  •  • 

•  •  • 

•  •  •  < 

•  •  •  4 

•  •  •  < 

•  •  •  < 


BELOW  SV: 

1-10%  • 

11-20%  •  • 

21-29%  •  •  • 

30%  OR  MORE  •  •  •  < 


males  met  the  recommended  allow- 
ances for  more  nutrients  than  the  diets 
of  females.  Except  for  iron,  the  average 
diets  of  children  under  9  years  were 
above  recommendations.  The  diets  of 
several  age  groups  of  girls  and  women 
were  below  recommended  amounts  of 
several  nutrients — vitamin  A,  thia- 
mine, and  riboflavin  in  addition  to  cal- 
cium and  iron.  Older  men  (over  75 
years)  had  diets  low  in  calcium,  vita- 
min A,  riboflavin,  and  ascorbic  acid. 

With  averages  below  the  recom- 
mended allowances  for  some  sex-age 
groups,  it  is  safe  to  conclude  that  some 
persons  within  those  groups  had  diets 
in  need  of  improvement.  Where  aver- 
ages fell  to  more  than  30  percent  below 
recommendations,  as  in  calcium  and 
iron  for  some  sex-age  groups,  the  pro- 
portions of  persons  with  diets  in  need 
of  improving  were  almost  surely  high. 

The  proportion  of  calories  derived 
from  fat  ranged  from  an  average  of 
39  percent  for  infants  to  45  percent 
for  men  20  to  64  years  of  age.  The  Food 
and  Nutrition  Board  does  not  include 

270 


an  allowance  for  fat  in  the  Recom- 
mended Dietary  Allowances — nor  a 
recommendation  on  the  percentage  of 
calories  that  should  come  from  fat. 
Percentages  as  high  as  40  percent, 
however,  are  considered  too  high  by 
some  authorities. 

Income  and  the  quality  of  diet  are 
closely  related.  This  relationship  is 
easier  to  describe  for  household  diets 
than  for  the  diets  of  men,  women,  and 
children  of  different  ages  separately. 
In  the  1965  household  study,  we  found 
that  of  the  families  with  incomes  under 
$3,000,  about  a  third  had  what  we 
called  poor  diets.  Of  the  families  with 
incomes  of  $10,000  or  more,  about  a 
tenth  had  poor  diets.  Thus  income  was 
definitely  related  to  the  quality  of 
the  diet. 

Yet  even  at  the  highest  income  level, 
a  sizable  proportion  of  families  had 
poor  diets.  Food  habits,  not  the  ability 
to  purchase,  were  the  dominant  cause 
of  poor  diets  for  this  group.  Some 
families  at  almost  all  income  levels 


either  do  not  know  which  foods  to 
select  in  order  to  make  up  a  good  diet 
or  they  do  not  have  any  desire  to 
choose  these  foods. 

There  is  relatively  little  difference 
in  the  nutritive  quality  of  the  diets  of 
families  in  different  regions  of  the 
United  States.  A  slightly  higher  pro- 
portion of  families  had  poor  diets  in 
the  South  and  North  Central  region 
than  in  the  Northeast  and  the  West, 
according  to  the  1965  survey. 

Differences  in  regional  food  patterns 
are  smaller  than  formerly.  Improve- 
ments in  processing,  transportation, 
and  storage  have  made  it  possible  to 
have  consumption  of  the  same  foods 
throughout  the  Nation.  Seasonal  fluc- 
tuations are  also  less  pronounced  than 
years  ago. 

There  are  still  some  very  important' 
differences,  however,  between  the  way 
people  eat  in  the  South  and  the  rest 
of  the  United  States.  In  the  1965 
survey,  households  were  classified  into 
the  four  broad  Census  regions:  North- 
east, North  Central,  South,  and  West. 
Households  in  the  South  had  the 
lowest  average  consumption  of  milk 
and  milk  products.  They  also  used  the 
least  bread  but  the  most  flour,  sugar, 
fat,  and  eggs — indicating  more  home 
baking  than  in  the  other  regions. 

Families  in  the  South  used  about 
the  same  amount  of  meat,  poultry,  and 
fish  as  in  the  other  three  regions,  but 
their  choices  within  this  group  were 
different.  Southern  families  used  a 
larger  share  of  the  total  as  pork, 
poultry,  and  fish.  But  they  used  a 
smaller  share  as  beef  and  lunch  meat 
than  the  other  regions. 

Rural-urban  differences  are  also 
much  less  pronounced.  Farm  families 
now  produce  on  their  own  places 
about  a  third  of  their  food.  Only  10 
years  ago,  the  proportion  was  about 
40  percent.  And  of  course  many  years 
ago,  the  proportion  was  still  higher. 

The  greatest  difference  between 
farm  and  urban  food  consumption  is 
still  in  flour  and  cereals.  In  1965  farm 
households  used  more  than  twice  as 
much  of  these  foods  as  urban  families. 
Their  use  of  more  fats  and  sugars  is 


DIETS  AT  3  LEVELS  OF  QUALITY,  BY  INCOME,  1965 
U.S.  households,  one  week  in  Spring 


GOOD  DIETS  ' 

FAIR  2 

POORS 

Under  13,000 

{3,000-4,999 

~37% 

27% 

36% 

43% 

33% 

24% 

$5,000-6,999 

l§liteir^n,-^llt 

53% 

29% 

18% 

$7,000-9,999 

5'«;S' »»«»« 

im'iSismmts* 

BUB 

56% 


32%  12% 


SIO.OOO  and  over 


63% 


28%         9% 


1  Met  recommended  dietary  allowances  (1963)  for  7  nutrients. 
z  Met  at  least  %  RDA  for  7  nutrients  but  less  than  RDA  for  1  to  7. 
3  Met  less  than  %  RIM  for  1  to  7  nutrients;  is  not  synonymous  with 
serious  hunger  and  malnutrition. 


partly  related  to  their  use  of  larger 
quantities  of  flour  and  cereals.  Farm 
families  use  smaller  amounts  than  city 
families  of  purchased  bread  and  other 
bakery  products,  soups  and  other  type 
purchased  mixes,  and  all  the  types  of 
beverages — soft  drinks,  coffee,  ades 
and  punches,  and  alcoholic  beverages. 

Ten  years  ago  farm  families  used  al- 
most a  fifth  more  milk  per  person  than 
urban  families.  Because  of  the  decline 
in  use  of  home-produced  milk,  their 
consumption  is  now  almost  the  same. 

Another  difference  between  rural 
and  urban  families  is  the  extent  to 
which  they  eat  some  of  their  meals 
away  from  home.  Although  a  larger 
proportion  of  rural  families  is  now 
buying  food — either  meals  or  between- 
meal  food  and  drink — for  consumption 
away  from  home  than  10  years  ago,  the 
proportion  is  much  less  than  that  of 
urban  families. 

In  a  week  in  the  spring  of  1965,  some 
62  percent  of  the  farm  families  spent 
money  for  either  meals  or  snacks  for 
eating  away  from  home,  with  an  aver- 
age expenditure  of  $6.16  a  week  for 
those  families  making  any  such  expend- 
iture. Of  the  urban  families  in  the  sur- 
vey, 72  percent  spent  money  for  food 
away  from  home  during  a  week  with 


271 


an  average  expenditure  of  $9.42  a  fam-  The  age  groups  which  need  special 

ily.  Interestingly  enough,  almost  the  emphasis  are  teenage  girls  and  women 

same  proportion  of  the  total  expendi-  and  older  men. 

ture  was  for  between-meal  food  and  They  need  assistance  in  selecting 

drink  for  the  two  population  groups —  foods   which   will   provide   increased 

25  percent  for  farm  families  and  22  amounts  of  calcium,  iron,  and  several 

percent  for  urban.  vitamins. 

Foods  needed  are  those  stressed  in 

The  information  presented  in  this  the  USDA's  Daily  Food  Guide — milk 

chapter  shows  that,  on  the  average,  and    milk   products;    meat,    poultry, 

diets  in  the  United  States  are  good,  but  and  fish,  eggs,  dry  beans,  peas,  and 

that  some  groups  are  not  doing  as  well  nuts;  enriched  and  whole  grain  bread 

as  others.  Some  low-income  families  and  cereal  products;  and  vegetables 

need  help  in  extending  their  purchas-  and   fruits,    especially   those  rich   in 

ing  power — through   food   assistance  vitamin  A  and  ascorbic  acid, 

programs  and  education  programs  that  Most  age  groups  need  guidance  in 

help  them  make  better  use  of  existing  selecting  foods  that  are  not  overly  rich 

incomes.  Many  higher  income  families  so  that  the  proportion  of  calories  de- 

also  need  guidance  in  meeting  their  rived  from  fat  in  the  diet  is  kept  to  a 

nutritional  needs  from  the  great  abun-  moderate  level — at  least  below  40  per- 

dance  of  foods  available.  cent  of  the  total  calories. 

Average  Amounts  of  Food  Eaten  in  One  Day  by  Men  and  Women  20  to  34  Years  of  Age 

Spring  1965 

Food  (as  served)  Unit  Men         Women 

Milk  and  milk  products: 

Milk,  milk  drinks cups 

Cream,  ice  cream cups 

Cheese ounces. 

Eggs each 

Meat,  poultry,  fish: 

Beef ounces. 

Pork ounces. 

Other  meat ounces. 

Poultry ounces. 

Fish,  shellfish ounces. 

Mixtures ounces. 

Legumes,  nuts 


Legumes,  mixtures tablespoons. 

Nuts 


ts,  nut  butter tablespoons 

Grain  products: 

Bread,  rolls,  biscuits slices 

Other  baked  goods ounces 

Cereals,  pastes ounces 

Mixtures ounces 

Tomatoes,  citrus  fruits: 

Tomatoes cups 

Citrus  fruit cups 

Dark  green  and  deep  yellow  vegetables tablespoons 

Potatoes cups 

Other  vegetables  and  fruit: 

Other  vegetables cups 

Other  fruit cups 

Sugars,  sweets: 

Sugar teaspoons 

Sirup,  honey,  molasses teaspoons 

Jelly,  jam,  gelatin  desserts teaspoons 

Candy ounces 

Fats,  oils: 

Table  fats tablespoons 

Other  fats,  oils tablespoons. . . . 

Beverages  other  than  milk,  juices,  and  alcoholic 
drinks: 

Tea 6-ounce  cups. . . 

Coffee 6-ounce  cups 

Soft  drinks 12-ounce  bottle. 


;i 

Va 

ft 

V4 

i 

2 

1/2 

vi 

i 

h 

4 

1 

\ 

t 

f/4 

23i 

4 

n 

* 

21 

Ys> 

272 


Audrey  C.  Burkart 

Smarten  Up 
and  Snack 
Right!  Here's 
How  to  Do  It 


Each  year  we  Americans  pop  into  our 
mouths  the  equivalent  of  $2  billion 
worth  of  potato  chips,  pretzels,  nuts, 
corn  chips,  puffed  snacks,  crackers, 
spreads,  and  other  snacks. 

The  1965  Household  Food  Consumption 
Survey  conducted  by  the  U.S.  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture  showed  that  we 
ate  83  percent  more  potato  chips  than 
in  1955.  That  means  our  potato  chip 
consumption  increased  nearly  five  times 
the  percentage  increase  in  our  popula- 
tion (17  percent).  Other  snack  foods 
that  showed  an  increase  were  carbon- 
ated and  noncarbonated  soft  drinks, 
along  with  punches,  crackers,  donuts, 
and  candy. 

The  National  Soft  Drink  Association 
reports  that  in  1966  the  average  Amer- 
ican drank  almost  18  gallons  of  drinks 
such  as  cola,  root  beer,  fruit-flavored 
beverages,  etc.  In  1960,  20  million 
cases  of  dietetic  soft  drinks  were  pro- 
duced. By  1966  the  number  spiraled 
to  more  than  400  million  cases,  and 
who  can  guess  what  the  future  will 
bring? 

It  has  been  predicted  that  we  will 
have  more  leisure  time  in  the  future 
and  if  this  becomes  a  reality,  the  im- 
portance and  popularity  of  snack  foods 


will  probably  increase,  too.  Of  course, 
if  we  are  not  relaxing  we  are  usually 
in  a  hurry  trying  to  keep  appointments 
and  get  things  done.  Here  again  snacks 
and  snack  type  eating  have  come  in 
handy. 

The  point  is  that  snacks  have  become 
part  of  our  food  pattern.  Snacks  are 
associated  with  happiness,  fun,  good 
times,  socializing,  and  enjoyment.  They 
can  also  be  associated  with  unwanted 
and  unnecessary  calories,  spoiled  ap- 
petites, and  "binge"  eating  in  response 
to  frustration  and  insecurity. 

Let's  think  about  the  foods  you  ate 
yesterday.  How  many  foods  were  part 
of  a  regular  meal?  For  example,  the 
sweet  roll  or  peanut  butter  cracker 
sandwich  you  had  during  the  coffee 
break  at  the  office  or  at  home  after 
everyone  had  left  for  the  day.  The  soft 
drink  you  had  at  3  p.m.  with  just  one 
cookie.  Remember  last  night  as  you 
were  watching  TV?  What  was  on  the 
table  next  to  you?  Maybe  potato  chips 
or  pretzels.  And  when  you  went 
shopping,  didn't  you  buy  a  candy  bar 
to  munch  as  you  drove  home  to  prepare 
the  family's  dinner?  Last  but  not 
least,  on  what  have  you  always  prided 
yourself  when  you  were  entertaining 
guests?  Could  it  be  tuna-stuffed  puffed 
pastries? 

To  say  all  snacks  are  "bad"  would 
be  like  saying  there  is  only  one  way 
to  cook  potatoes.  The  contributions 
that  snacks  can  make  to  the  daily  food 
pattern  in  energy,  protein,  vitamins 
and  minerals  can  only  be  judged  after 
one  learns  how  they  are  being  used 
and  what  kinds  of  foods  are  being 
discussed.  For  example,  is  the  beverage 
a  substitute  for  a  more  nutritious  one 
like  milk,  or  is  the  food  part  of  an 
already  good  meal  pattern  like  an  ice 
cream  dessert  at  8  p.m.  while  watching 
TV?  A  snack  can  include  anything 
from  a  pizza  "with  everything"  to 
potato  chips,  or  from  a  thick  milkshake 
to  a  cup  of  bouillon. 

Audrey  C.  Burkart  is  an  Assistant  Specialist  in 
Foods  and  Nutrition,  New  Jersey  Cooperative 
Extension  Service,  College  of  Agriculture  and  En- 
vironmental Science,  Rutgers  University — The 
State  University  of  New  Jersey,  New  Brunswick. 

273 


Let's  find  out  the  role  snacks  can 
play  in  the  lives  of  many  Americans. 

What  about  the  higher  calorie  snack 
foods  like  donuts,  pastries,  candies, 
and  soft  drinks?  Are  they  forbidden? 
No,  just  as  long  as  (1)  they  do  not 
replace  those  foods  that  are  needed  by 
the  body  such  as  meat,  milk,  fruit, 
vegetables,  and  enriched  bread  and 
(2)  the  added  calories  do  not  con- 
tribute to  a  weight  control  problem. 

The  preschool  child  is  growing,  but 
not  as  fast  as  he  did  during  his  first 
year  of  life.  Because  of  this,  he  may 
show  a  decreased  interest  in  eating, 
much  to  his  parents'  dismay.  But  he  is 
still  growing,  and  he  is  taking  an 
interest  in  things  going  on  around 
him.  He  is  an  imitator.  During  this 
period  of  life,  he  will  be  introduced  to 
the  family's  meal  pattern,  which  will 
probably  become  his  own.  So  it  is 
very  important  he  starts  on  the  "right 
foot,"  and  that  means  the  snacks  he 
eats  as  well.  Whether  or  not  he  is 
given  a  mid-morning  and  a  mid- 
afternoon  snack  should  be  determined 
by  his  growth  needs  and  his  appetite 
at  mealtimes,  not  just  to  develop  the 
habit  of  eating  between  meals  or  as  a 
"reward"  for  being  a  "good"  boy. 

If  snacks  are  served,  they  should  be 
small  in  size  so  his  appetite  will  not  be 
dulled  for  the  next  meal.  Perhaps  your 
child  eats  better  if  he  is  given  a  little 
at  a  time.  Then  the  snack  may  include 
foods  not  eaten  at  mealtime,  such  as 
his  breakfast  orange  juice,  a  great 
source  of  vitamin  C,  or  milk,  so  good 
in  calcium  and  protein.  Keeping  his 
lunch  or  dinner  dessert  until  mid- 
morning  and  evening  respectively  can 
solve  many  problems,  too. 

If  your  preschooler  is  a  good  eater 
at  mealtime,  any  snack  should  still  be 
counted  as  a  part  of  his  overall  meal 
pattern. 

The  preschool  child  usually  enjoys 
raw  fruits  and  vegetables  like  a  wedge 
of  pared  apple,  a  cube  of  cantaloup 
(another  good  source  of  vitamin  C),  or 
a  carrot  stick  (a  tasty  way  to  enjoy 
some  vitamin  A).  Oatmeal  cookies 
with  raisins  are  tasty  and  a  good  source 
of  iron,  too.  All  these  foods  can  help 

274 


the  child  develop  his  chewing  ability, 
and  supply  some  necessary  roughage 
besides  helping  to  fulfill  his  need  for 
energy,  vitamins,  and  minerals. 

Overly  sweet  cakes,  cookies,  and 
candy  should  be  avoided  since  they 
tend  to  dull  the  appetite  and  promote 
development  of  a  "sweet  tooth."  Many 
authorities  agree  that  the  road  to  over- 
weight begins  here,  so  this  is  another 
good  reason  to  make  sure  the  snacks 
given  are  not  above  and  beyond  the 
child's  energy  needs  and  that  they  be 
considered  part  of  his  overall  meal 
pattern. 

A  child  attending  nursery  school  is 
in  a  whole  new  world.  To  begin  with, 
his  mother  is  no  longer  present  to  tell 
him  what  to  do,  breakfast  is  at  an 
earlier  hour,  and  he  now  has  the 
companionship  of  others  while  playing 
and  eating. 

The  mid-morning  snack  for  the 
nursery  school  child  is  important  to 
prevent  fatigue.  It  provides  needed 
energy  and  may  help  prevent  lunch- 
time  problems  when  the  child  is  over- 
tired. Since  there  may  be  a  long  time- 
span  between  lunch  and  dinner  at 
home,  a  mid-afternoon  snack  might  be 
in  order. 

The  kinds  of  foods  enjoyed  by  chil- 
dren of  this  age  include  vitamin  C-rich 
fruits  such  as  orange  sections,  canta- 
loup, or  citrus  juices  including  orange 
or  blended  orange  and  grapefruit 
juices.  Pared  and  unpared  apples  and 
dried  fruits  are  other  taste  treats. 

Raw  vegetables  like  carrot  sticks, 
celery  curls,  turnip  slices,  and  green 
pepper  sticks  (another  good  source  of 
vitamins  A  and  C)  are  also  very  well 
received.  Graham  crackers,  toast  sticks 
made  with  enriched  bread,  and  plain 
or  hard  whole  wheat  crackers  are 
favorites,  too. 

There  are  times  when  the  mother  of 
a  nursery  school  child  may  complain 
that  her  child  picks  at  his  dinner  after 
school.  It  may  be  he  is  overly  tired,  or 
should  not  have  a  mid-afternoon  snack. 
The  nursery  school  teacher  and  the 
parents  should  always  be  in  touch  so 
this  kind  of  problem  does  not  become 
a  hardship  for  the  child. 


Milk  and   oatmeal  cookies  make  a  nutritious 
afternoon  snack  for  an  elementary  school  child. 


The  world  of  many  elementary 
schoolchildren  includes  that  wondrous 
thing  called  an  allowance.  And  after 
all,  what  could  be  greater  fun  than 
buying  something  with  your  very  own 
money?  Unfortunately,  when  it  comes 
to  food,  this  is  frequently  of  the  "junk" 
variety.  Help  your  child  select  foods 
that  contribute  more  than  just  calories. 
A  piece  of  fruit  or  a  container  of  milk 
or  ice  cream  might  be  good. 

If  your  child  does  not  buy  his  own 
snacks,  you  can  be  sure  he  will  come 
home  hungry  after  school.  Here,  as 
with  the  younger  child,  the  size  of  the 
snack  should  not  be  so  large  that  it 
dulls  the  appetite  for  dinner.  If  you 
have  a  child  this  age,  why  not  try  one 
of  the  following  energy-,  protein-, 
vitamin-,  and  mineral-packed  after- 
noon snacks:  peanut  butter  with 
crackers,  half  of  a  cheese  sandwich,  a 
cold  leg  of  cooked  chicken,  a  small 
glass  of  milk  with  a  cookie,  fresh 
fruit,  or  raw  vegetables?  The  energy- 
packed  dried  fruits  such  as  apricots, 
an  excellent  source  of  vitamin  A,  or 
prunes  and  raisins,  both  good  sources 
of  iron,  are  ideal  foods  to  satisfy  the 
"sweet  tooth."  To  some  children  on  a 
cold  winter's  day,  a  cup  of  hot  soup 
hits  the  spot  and  tides  them  over  until 


dinner.  In  short,  make  your  children's 
snacks  work  for  them. 

To  the  teenager,  food  in  general  and 
snacks  in  particular  are  a  way  of  life ! 
The  proverbial  "hollow  leg"  seems  to 
apply  to  many  since  this  is  a  period  of 
rapid  growth.  Yet  many  teenagers  are 
reported  as  falling  short  of  the  mark 
where  nutrition  is  concerned. 

The  teen  years  are  a  time  of  striving 
for  independence,  concern  for  physical 
appearance,  and  desire  to  conform  to 
the  peer  group.  All  these  characteris- 
tics are  reflected  in  food  patterns. 

Studies  have  shown  that  teenagers 
tend  to  skip  meals  (and  not  always 
just  breakfasts,  either)  and  to  consume 
many  snacks.  Some  studies  indicate 
girls  tend  to  snack  more  than  boys, 
although  other  studies  show  no  such 
relationship.  A  1966  study  of  122 
teenagers  showed  that  boys  and  girls 
had  different  snack  preferences.  The 
boys  tended  to  enjoy  in  this  order 
of  popularity  the  following  foods  for 
snacks :  ( 1 )  cereals  and  breads,  (2)  pie, 
cake,  pastry,  and  cookies,  (3)  soft 
drinks,  (4)  milk,  (5)  fruit,  (6)  eggs, 
meat,  and  cheese,  (7)  ice  cream, 
(8)  candy,  (9)  potato  chips,  and 
(10)  vegetables. 

In  contrast,  the  girls  enjoyed  in 
order  of  preference:  (1)  pie,  cake, 
pastry,  and  cookies,  (2)  candy,  (3) 
fruit,  (4)  cereals  and  breads,  (5)  ice 
cream,  (6)  soft  drinks,  (7)  milk,  (8) 
eggs,  meat,  and  cheese,  (9)  potato 
chips,  and  (10)  vegetables.  It  was  also 
noted  that  the  types  of  snack  foods 
selected  had  little  or  no  relation  to 
amount  of  body  fat  in  either  the  girls 
or  the  boys. 

Other  studies  have  shown  that  girls 
tended  to  snack  more  frequendy  than 
boys.  Girls  were  figure  conscious.  Un- 
fortunately, to  achieve  their  goal  of  a 
slender  figure  they  frequendy  selected 
foods  that  contained  litde  more  than 
calories.  They  also  showed  a  tendency 
to  skip  meals.  Since  girls  are  faced 
with  a  greater  possibility  than  their 
mothers  of  having  a  child  early  in  life, 
it  is  imperative  that  they  now  learn  to 
eat  those  foods  that  can  help  prepare 
them  for  the  future. 

275 


Snacking— a  teenager's  delight. 


Since  meal  skipping  and  high-calorie 
snacks  have  been  found  popular  with 
the  teenagers,  why  not  "jump  on  the 
bandwagon"  by  helping  them  to  enjoy 
more  nutritious  snacks.  How?  By 
having  the  refrigerator  stocked  with 
the  right  "makings."  For  example, 
three  snack  favorites  include  pizza, 
hotdogs,  and  hamburgers.  All  three 
are  sources  of  protein,  vitamins,  and 
minerals.  So  why  not  have  some  salad 
fixings  like  carrots,  celery,  and  green 
peppers  in  addition  to  citrus  fruit 
"conspicuously  available"  next  to  the 
meats.  If  you  the  homemaker,  some- 
times called  the  "gatekeeper"  of  the 
food,  have  these  foods  available  and 
do  a  little  prompting,  not  preaching, 
they  will  be  used.  Teenagers  want  to 
be  healthy  and  attractive,  and  getting 
the  point  across  that  the  right  snacks 
can  help  them  attain  their  goal  can 
be  very  effective. 

The  same  approach  can  be  used 
where  beverages  are  concerned.  Cola 

276 


beverages  need  not  be  oudawed,  but 
you  can  spark  an  interest  in  serving 
something  different  by  putting  a 
blender  into  operation  to  make  some 
luscious  and  cooling  milkshakes,  either 
plain  or  with  fruit.  Ice  cream  specials 
are  usually  well  rated  by  teenagers. 
Would  you  be  surprised  to  learn  that 
both  boys  and  girls  pride  themselves 
on  being  good  hosts  and  hostesses  to 
their  friends?  They  do ! 

Does  your  teenager  enjoy  cooking 
outdoors?  Fine.  Here  is  another  oppor- 
tunity to  help  him  learn  to  take  care 
of  himself  and  become  a  good  host. 
Let  him  try  serving  kabobs  to  his 
friends.  Made  with  a  less  expensive 
cut  of  beef,  cubed,  and  skewered 
along  with  green  pepper  and  toma- 
toes, they  are  sure  to  please.  On  this 
one  skewer  you  will  find  energy,  pro- 
tein, and  vitamins  A  and  C.  Just  what 
a  teenager  needs !  If  hamburger  is  the 
choice,  stimulate  interest  in  serving  a 
colorful  salad  alongside,  like  a  tossed 
green  salad  or  cole  slaw.  A  sparkling 
fruit  punch  which  bubbles  with  the 
addition  of  ginger  ale,  and  served  from 
a  pitcher,  can  be  a  taste  treat.  Cold 
milk,  either  whole  or  skimmed  (both 
good  sources  of  calcium),  is  enjoyed  by 
most  teenagers,  so  always  have  it 
available. 

For  a  smaller  snack,  grilled  cheese 
sandwiches  or  chili  buns  are  fun  to 
make  and  eat.  Cheese  snacks  are  a 
good  choice  for  the  nonmilk  drinker. 

A  snack  breakfast  could  very  well 
solve  the  problem  of  your  morning 
sleepyhead.  Have  a  meat  or  cheese 
sandwich  ready  or  else  pack  him  an 
extra  sandwich  to  take  on  the  school- 
bus.  The  traditional  breakfast  orange 
juice  can  be  obtained  just  as  well  from 
a  whole  orange  that  is  packed  with 
the  sandwich. 

To  be  sure,  most  teenagers  can  eat 
a  big  snack  an  hour  before  mealtime 
and  then  sit  down  to  a  full  dinner. 
This  is  fine  if  his  body  needs  it,  and 
if  he  is  active  enough  to  use  the  calo- 
ries. Today,  however,  many  busy 
teenagers  are  not  physically  active, 
and  these  are  the  ones  who  have  an 
overweight   problem.   To   help   them 


over  this  hump,  have  some  of  the 
lower  calorie  snack  foods  available, 
like  fresh  fruit,  gelatin  desserts,  and 
puddings  made  with  skimmed  milk. 
For  those  who  should  gain  weight, 
the  thick  milkshake,  pie  alamode,  and 
nuts  are  the  thing. 

Would  it  be  a  shock  if  I  told  you  that 
adults  are  not  perfect  in  their  eating 
habits  either?  The  morning  coffee 
break  is  a  case  in  point.  Frequendy 
this  consists  of  a  cup  of  coffee  with  or 
without  sugar  and  milk,  and  possibly 
a  sweet  bun.  For  many,  this  is  more 
than  just  a  mid-morning  break.  It  is 
breakfast  and  a  poor  one  at  that. 

Calories  are  high,  but  little  else 
often  is  contributed  in  the  way  of 
protein,  vitamins,  and  minerals.  How 
much  better  it  would  be  if  the  cafe- 
terias and  mobile  coffee  carts  were 
stocked,  in  addition  to  coffee,  with 
oranges,  orange  and  tomato  juice, 
milk,  individually  wrapped  cheese 
wedges  (another  way  to  get  calcium), 
portion-packaged  enriched  ready-to- 
eat  cereals,  and  cottage  cheese  with 
fruit.  Having  something  different  to 
stimulate  interest  in  more  nutritious 
snacks  can  help  adults,  too. 

Homemakers  are  busy  people,  and 


many  do  not  take  time  to  sit  down  to 
eat.  Snacks  such  as  cookies  and  other 
munchables  can  become  a  mainstay 
during  the  day.  All  too  frequently  you 
watch,  much  to  your  horror,  the 
bathroom  scales  soar  to  new  heights. 
If  you  don't  sit  down  for  a  complete 
breakfast  or  lunch,  use  the  "missed" 
foods  for  your  snacks.  In  the  long  run 
you  may  be  "eating"  fewer  calories 
and  if  the  foods  are  carefully  selected, 
you  will  be  fulfilling  your  food  needs. 

Snacking  rates  very  high  with  many 
senior  citizens  primarily  because  snacks 
are  convenient  and  frequendy  associ- 
ated with  a  social  occasion,  like  having 
visitors.  A  survey  made  in  one  Iowa 
county  revealed  that  those  over  75 
years  of  age  snacked  less  than  those  in 
their  early  60's.  The  foods  most  fre- 
quendy listed  were  cookies  or  breads. 
Coffee,  tea,  and  Postum  were  also 
listed,  while  milk  was  more  popular 
with  people  living  in  cities  than  in 
rural  areas. 

A  survey  made  in  Rochester,  N.Y., 
of  a  selected  group  of  beneficiaries  of 
old-age  survivors  and  disability  insur- 
ance revealed  that,  based  upon  nutri- 
ent relationships,  milk  and  the  other 
dairy  products  and  fruits  were  very 


Snacks  can  be  a  nutritional  asset  or  liability. 


277 


popular  between-meal  foods.  Over- 
weight, denture,  and  digestive  prob- 
lems are  frequendy  found  in  the  older 
age  group.  In  many  cases,  the  appetite 
and  the  interest  in  food  is  irregular. 

Depending  on  the  physical  condi- 
tion of  the  individuals,  the  following 
kinds  of  snack  foods  can  help  fulfill 
their  nutritional  needs:  cooked  and 
canned  fruit,  fruit  juices,  calcium  and 
protein  foods  like  eggnogs,  custards, 
and  puddings. 

Open-faced  sandwiches  using 
cooked  ground  beef,  tender  cooked 
chicken  slices,  or  other  favorite  and 
available  meat  "fillings"  can  be  a  fun 
way  of  getting  some  protein. 

To  the  person  watching  his  weight, 
every  calorie  must  count.  Frequent 
snacking  of  high  calorie  foods  or  larger 
servings  of  a  reduced  calorie  food  such 
as  candies  and  cookies  made  with  sugar 
substitutes  or  dry  roasted  nuts,  may 
help  you  defeat  your  own  purpose. 
This  means  you  should  take  advantage 
of  the  many  lower  calorie,  appetizing 
foods  that  make  excellent  festive  snacks. 
Many  of  your  friends  will  be  happy  to 
know  that  while  you  are  watching  your 
party  calories  you  are  helping  them  do 
the  same.  Here  are  a  few  party  snack 
ideas.  Check  your  favorite  cookbook 
for  recipes. 

Fruit  and  vegetable  ideas  for  drink- 
ing, nibbling,  and  dipping :  Cranberry- 
pineapple  cocktail;  orange-grapefruit 
juice  with  mint  sprig;  vegetable  juice 
"on  the  rocks";  hot  tomato-bouillon  in 


All    set  for  a   dip-in. 


mugs;  fruit  kabobs  made  of  pineapple 
wedges,  banana  slices,  cherries — for  a 
dip,  try  a  french  dressing;  garnish 
tray  including — radish  roses,  carrot 
curls,  marinated  cauliflower,  stuffed 
cucumber,  stuffed  mushroom,  and 
stuffed  celery;  for  dippers  try — carrot 
sticks,  cauliflower  florets,  turnip  sticks, 
strawberries,  cooked  shrimp. 

Meat,  fish,  and  egg  ideas :  Miniature 
meat  balls  on  toothpicks;  meat  slice 
cornucopias  around  cheese  sticks ;  ham 
roll-ups  with  cottage  cheese  spiced 
with  onion  soup  mix  as  a  filling; 
cooked  shrimp  and  olives  on  tooth- 
pick; deviled  eggs;  open-faced  sand- 
wiches using  rye  or  wheat  wafers  and 
topped  with  thin  slices  of  meat — 
garnish,  with  pimiento,  green  pepper, 
or  parsley. 

Milk  and  cheese  ideas:  Cheese  tray 
including  cheddar  cubes,  Edam,  Swiss; 
cheese  ball;  yogurt  dip  excellent  for 
such  fruit  dippers  as  strawberries, 
melon  slices,  etc. ;  milk  coolers. 

Throughout  this  article,  three  points 
have  been  repeatedly  emphasized  in 
the  snack  suggestions  given:  (1)  snacks 
should  be  selected  to  supply  the  body 
with  vitamins,  minerals,  and  possibly 
protein,  in  addition  to  energy,  (2)  all 
snacks  must  be  considered  as  a  part 
of  the  total  day's  food  intake  if  they 
are  to  be  to  your  advantage  without 
contributing  to  such  health  problems 
as  being  overweight,  and  (3)  snacks 
should  not  interfere  with  the  appetite 
for  the  next  meal. 


278 


Helen  Denning  Ullrich 

Food  Planning 
for  Families  at 
3  Different 
Cost  Levels 


You  can  feed  your  family  nutritionally 
adequate  meals  at  widely  different 
costs.  If  you  want  to  prepare  a  basic 
mixture  of  soy  and  wheat  flour,  dry 
milk  powder,  vegetable  oil,  and  some 
purified ,  vitamins  and  minerals,  you 
can  feed  your  family  for  only  a  few 
cents  a  day.  Most  American  families, 
however,  take  pride  in  choosing  among 
the  wide  variety  of  foods  found  in  our 
grocery  stores. 

In  March  of  1969  it  was  estimated 
that  a  family  of  four  with  two  school- 
age  children  could  be  adequately  fed 
for  one  week  on  a  $28.80  low-cost 
food  plan,  a  $36.90  moderate-cost  food 
plan,  and  a  $45.10  liberal  plan.  Your 
own  grocery  bills  may  be  larger  than 
these  costs.  The  figures  quoted  include 
only  food  eaten  at  home  or  carried  in 
lunches  from  the  home  food  supply. 

You  should  have  a  plan  in  mind 
when  food  shopping.  Careful  planning 
will  bring  more  satisfaction  and  variety 
from  the  food  you  choose.  By  planning 
meals,  you  can  ensure  that  they  include 
foods  from  the  four  basic  food  groups. 
This  may  not  mean  deciding  on  the 
precise  menu  for  Wednesday's  or  Fri- 
day's dinner,  but  merely  making  a 
general  plan  for  the  week.  The  other 


members  of  the  family  may  also  enjoy 
planning  some  of  the  meals.  The  kinds 
and  amounts  of  food  that  you  buy  will 
depend  on  how  often  you  shop  and 
how  much  refrigerator,  freezer,  and 
general  storage  space  you  have. 

A  family  food  plan  should  include 
certain  basic  foods  to  provide  for  quick 
meals,  emergencies,  and  unexpected 
company.  These  staples  and  supplies 
will  vary  according  to  available  stor- 
age space  and  family  food  preferences. 

Good  shopping  habits  save  time  and 
money,  and  reduce  impulse  buying. 
Make  a  list  of  needed  items,  allowing 
for  adjustments  and  for  substitutions. 
Check  the  newspaper  ads  and  take 
advantage  of  specials.  Some  stores  ad- 
vertise specials  good  for  part  of  the 
week;  others  feature  discount  prices. 
Some  offer  quality,  service,  conven- 
ience, and  stamps.  Compare  prices. 
Know  what  you  are  paying  for. 

Consider  the  family  eating  patterns 
when  you  buy  food.  Packed  lunches, 
or  irregular  meal  hours,  or  frequent 
snacks  require  special  planning.  When 
meal  patterns  vary  from  the  normal 
three  a  day,  it  takes  special  care  to 
ensure  that  foods  from  the  daily  food 
guide  are  included.  Such  foods  as 
crackers,  potato  chips,  pastries,  soft 
drinks,  and  punches  can  add  con- 
siderably to  your  food  budget  while 
contributing  litde  besides  calories  to 
the  nutritive  value  of  the  diet. 

The  cost  of  food  does  not  reflect  its 
nutritive  value.  Hamburger  and  high- 
priced  steak  have  about  the  same  food 
value.  Each  family  has  to  decide  how 
much  it  wishes  to  budget  for  food.  A 
budget  close  to  the  USDA  low-cost 
plan  does  not  allow  for  many  frills. 
It  requires  skill  in  buying,  storing,  and 
preserving  food  to  insure  that  the 
family  is  nutritionally  well  fed. 

Most  partially  prepared  foods  cost 
more  than  foods  that  require  all  the 
preparation  at  home,  and  fewer  of 
them  are  included  in  low-cost  food 

Helen  Denning  Ullrich  is  Associate  Specialist 
in  the  Department  of  Nutritional  Sciences,  Uni- 
versity of  California,  Berkeley.  She  is  also  project 
director  and  editor  of  the  Journal  of  Nutrition 
Education. 

279 


budgets.  When  the  homemaker  is 
busy  outside  the  home,  however,  she 
may  find  the  time  saved  by  partially 
prepared  foods  worth  the  extra  money. 

Setting  a  price  limit  for  the  dinner 
main  dish  is  helpful — for  example,  $1 
for  a  family  of  four  with  a  low-cost 
budget,  or  $1.50  to  $2  on  a  more 
liberal  budget.  The  vegetables  (other 
than  potatoes)  and  desserts,  respec- 
tively, might  cost  not  over  25  to  30 
cents  for  the  low-cost  budget.  Check 
your  food  plan  and  decide  your  own 
price  limits.  Fluctuation  in  such  items 
can  unbalance  a  tight  budget. 

The  average  family  will  spend  about 
half  its  food  budget  for  milk,  meat,  and 
eggs,  about  a  fifth  on  fruits  and  vege- 
tables, and  the  rest  for  all  other  food 
purchases.  On  a  low-cost  budget,  more 
is  usually  expended  for  cereal,  milk 
products,  and  eggs,  and  less  for  meat. 
Each  family  will  spend  differently  for 
food,  depending  on  its  needs,  and  the 
homemaker's  time,  equipment,  skills, 
and  energy.  In  some  families,  several 
members  may  share  the  meal  planning, 
marketing,  cooking,  and  serving.  This 
also  influences  the  food  budget. 


A  listing  of  needed  items,  a  week's  menu,  and 
newspaper  ads  are  useful  in  planning  a  shop- 
ping list.  At  grocery  store,  adjust  plans  to 
take  advantage  of  specials. 


In  planning  meals  for  the  family, 
choose  foods  from  each  of  the  four 
basic  food  groups — meat,  milk,  fruit- 
vegetable,  and  bread-cereal — accord- 
ing to  the  family  needs.  Costs  vary 
widely  for  foods  within  each  group. 

Meat,  fish,  poultry,  eggs,  dried 
beans,  and  nuts  are  important  protein 
foods.  Most  families  spend  more  than 
a  third  of  each  food  dollar  for  foods  in 
this  group.  The  lean  meat  of  steak, 
roast,  stew,  and  ground  meat  has 
the  same  nutritive  value.  Because  the 
amount  of  bone,  gristle,  and  fat 
varies  in  the  different  cuts  of  meat,  the 
price  per  serving  must  be  figured  for 
the  edible  portion  in  a  pound  of  meat. 
The  following  is  a  general  guide  to  the 
number  of  3-ounce  servings  of  cooked 
lean  meat  per  pound:  Much  bone 
or  gristle — 1  or  2  servings;  medium 
amount  of  bone — 2  or  3  servings;  little 
or  no  bone — 3  or  4. 

Poultry  contributes  the  same  high- 
quality  protein,  minerals,  and  vitamins 
to  the  diet  as  does  meat.  To  compare 
costs  of  whole,  cut-up,  and  selected 
parts  of  poultry,  divide  the  price  per 
pound  by  the  percentage  of  edible 
meat.  Whole  and  cut-up  birds  con- 
tain 51  percent  edible  meat;  legs  and 
thighs,  53  percent;  breast,  63  percent; 
wings,  50  percent;  and  backs,  42  per- 
cent. If  whole  chickens  sell  for  39  cents 
per  pound,  the  cost  per  pound  of  meat 
is  78  cents. 

Like  meat,  fish  is  a  good  source  of 
protein.  Costs  of  fish  vary  widely.  The 
popular  shellfish  are  the  most  expen- 
sive; canned  tuna  is  often  the  least 
expensive.  Nutritive  value  is  about  the 
same  in  most  kinds  of  fish. 

Nuts  are  also  an  excellent  source  of 
protein.  Peanuts  and  peanut  butter  are 
the  only  items  in  this  group  that  are  in 
the  low-cost  range.  UnsheUed  nuts  cost 
less  than  shelled  and  processed  nuts. 
Some  types,  like  walnuts,  pecans,  and 
almonds,  are  used  in  prepared  foods 
to  give  texture  and  flavor. 

Two  eggs  will  provide  about  the 
protein  equivalent  to  a  serving  of  meat. 
They  are  also  an  excellent  source  of 
iron.  Grade,  size,  and  color  of  eggs  do 
not  affect  the  food  value,  but  do  in- 


fluence the  price.  Choose  the  grade 
and  size  to  fit  your  needs  and  budget. 
In  March  1969  pricing,  two  grade 
A  large  eggs  were  about  two-thirds  the 
cost  of  4  ounces  of  regular  ground  beef. 
Dried  beans,  peas,  and  lentils,  as 
another  good  source  of  protein,  may 
often  be  served  in  combination  with 
some  animal  protein  for  the  main  dish. 
These  foods  are  inexpensive,  but  they 
do  take  a  long  time  to  cook.  Canned 
cooked  beans  are  timesavers  and  also 
a  good  buy. 

Milk  and  the  other  dairy  products 
supply  most  of  the  calcium  in  the 
American  diet  in  addition  to  their 
protein  content.  Cost  of  milk  varies, 
depending  on  whether  it  is  obtained 
from  a  grocery  store,  a  special  milk 
depot,  or  by  home  delivery.  Half 
gallons  and  gallons  generally  cost  less 
than  quarts. 

Nonfat  dry  milk  is  the  least  expensive 
form  and  is  low  in  calorie  content. 
Evaporated  milk,  which  is  also  more 
economical  than  fresh  whole  milk, 
has  about  the  same  number  of  calories 
when  diluted.  Many  families  save  con- 
siderably by  using  some  nonfat  dry 
milk  in  combination  with  fluid  whole 
milk;  while  others  use  the  reconstituted 
type  almost  entirely.  When  the  dry 
milk  and  water  are  mixed  well  in 
advance  and  the  milk  is  allowed  to 
chill  in  the  refrigerator,  it  is  very 
satisfactory.  If  you  use  nonfat  milk 
which  is  not  enriched  with  vitamin  A, 
you  should  include  additional  amounts 
of  dark-green  and  deep-yellow  vege- 
tables in  the  diet  to  replace  the  vitamin 
A  which  is  removed  from  the  whole 
milk  with  the  fat. 

Compare  prices  carefully  on  cheeses. 
Bulk  cheese  is  usually  the  best  buy, 
but  not  always.  If  your  family  uses 
any  sizable  quantities,  a  large  brick  of 
process  cheese  may  well  be  the  most 
economical. 

Imitation  dairy  products  are  often 
available  at  a  lower  price  than  the 
natural  product.  But  when  comparing 
prices,  be  sure  that  products  are  also 
comparable  in  nutritive  value. 

The  vegetable-fruit  group  can  re- 
flect great  cost  differences  depending 

281 


upon  the  season  of  the  year,  or  the 
abundance  and  popularity  of  the  food, 
and  whether  it  is  fresh,  canned,  frozen, 
dehydrated,  or  specially  prepared. 

Fruits  and  vegetables  rich  in  vita- 
mins A  and  C  should  be  included  on 
every  shopping  list  whether  for  a  low, 
moderate,  or  a  liberal  budget.  They 
offer  more  food  value  for  your  money. 

Four  servings  of  vegetables  and 
fruits  should  be  eaten  every  day.  You 
should  serve  foods  rich  in  vitamin  C 
daily,  and  those  high  in  vitamin  A  at 
least  every  other  day.  Choose  from 
potatoes  and  other  fruits  and  vege- 
tables to  complete  the  four  servings. 

Canned  and  frozen  fruits  and  vege- 
tables are  about  equal  to  fresh  in  food 
value.  Some  fruits  and  vegetables  are 
available  fresh  almost  the  year  round, 
and  the  price  varies  only  slightly. 
Others  have  a  peak  season  when  the 
supply  is  greatest  and  the  price  usually 
lowest.  Compare  prices  of  fresh,  fro- 
zen, and  canned  products  when  de- 
ciding on  the  best  buy.  Because  there 
is  waste  in  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables, 
figure  the  price  per  serving  when  you 
compare  prices. 

In  addition  to  many  choices  of  fruit 
juices,  today's  market  offers  products 
made  to  taste  like  fruit  juices.  If  you 
are  buying  a  beverage  as  a  source  of 
vitamin  C,  be  sure  it  contains  enough 
to  provide  the  family  needs.  Compare 
costs  on  the  reconstituted  volume.  Cost 
of  the  substitute  juice  may  be  the  same 
as  or  slightly  less  than  that  of  the 
natural  juice.  Then  consider  the  other 
nutrients  contained  in  the  natural 
juice,  and  compare  the  flavor,  conven- 
ience, and  enjoyment  of  the  product 
when  you  make  your  decision. 

Potatoes  provide  calories  and  some 
of  the  nutrients  in  your  meals  inex- 
pensively. A  low-cost  budget  will  in- 
clude more  potatoes  than  will  the 
moderate  or  liberal  budgets.  Dehy- 
drated and  frozen  potatoes,  both  very 
convenient  products,  have  been  used 
increasingly  in  the  past  few  years. 
Still,  the  very  popular  instant  mashed 
potatoes  and  frozen  french-fried  pota- 
toes are  not  yet  as  inexpensive  as  the 
medium-sized  nonbaking  potato. 

282 


Plan  four  servings  daily  of  whole 
grain,  enriched,  or  restored  breads 
and  cereals.  Foods  in  this  group  in- 
clude bread,  cooked  and  ready-to-eat 
cereal,  crackers,  flour,  cornmeal,  grits, 
spaghetti,  noodles,  rice,  macaroni, 
and  baked  goods  such  as  muffins, 
biscuits,  cakes,  and  cookies.  If  any  of 
these  products  are  not  whole  grain, 
enriched,  or  restored,  they  do  not 
count  as  servings  from  this  food  group. 

A  low-cost  food  plan  will  include 
more  foods  from  the  bread-cereal 
group  than  will  a  more  moderate  or 
liberal  plan.  Enriched  cornmeal  and 
wheat  flour  are  probably  the  most 
economical  choices  in  this  food  group. 
Many  people  find  they  can  cut  their 
budget  by  making  their  own  biscuits, 
cornbread,  and  yeast  bread.  When 
the  family  is  large,  savings  are  con- 
siderable. Enriched  and  entire  whole- 
wheat breads  usually  cost  about  the 
same  per  pound.  The  specialty  types 
of  breads,  rolls,  and  prebaked,  re- 
frigerated, and  frozen  goods  are  fre- 
quently not  enriched  and  cost  more. 

Breakfast  cereals  which  require 
cooking  are  a  good  buy  in  nutrition 
and  are  usually  less  expensive  than 
ready-to-eat  cereals.  Since  almost  all 
breakfast  cereals  are  enriched,  forti- 
fied, or  whole  grain,  they  contain  B 
vitamins  and  iron. 

Ready-to-eat  cereals  come  flaked, 
shredded,  granulated,  puffed,  sweet- 
ened, and  toasted.  Through  the  de- 
velopment of  freeze-drying  it  is  now 
possible  to  combine  many  different 
kinds  of  fruit  with  cereals.  Family 
preference  plays  a  big  part  in  choosing 
cereals.  The  influence  of  advertising, 
prize  in  the  box,  and  the  value  of  the 
boxtop  affect  the  children's  choice. 

First,  read  the  label  to  see  if  the 
cereal  is  enriched.  Then  check  the 
weight  and  price  and  cost  per  serving 
as  box  sizes  can  be  misleading.  The 
range  of  monthly  costs  for  duierent 
types  of  cereal  for  a  family  of  five, 
serving  1  ounce  per  person  every  day, 
is  as  follows:  Cereal  to  be  cooked — 
$2.20  to  $4.61 ;  ready-to-eat— $4.02  to 
$7.52;  sugared— $5.36  to  $7.71;  in- 
dividual packages— $8.18  to  $9.49. 


Cereals  promoted  as  extra  high  in 
certain  nutrients  often  are  higher 
priced.  Some  of  the  sweetened  cereals 
are  not  enriched  with  added  nutrients. 
The  macaroni  family,  which  in- 
cludes spaghetti,  egg  noodles,  vermi- 
celli, and  pastina,  as  well  as  macaroni, 
is  available  in  an  amazing  array  of 
lengths,  shapes,  and  sizes.  Most  but 
not  all  of  these  products  are  enriched. 
Read  the  label.  Macaroni  combines 
well  with  small  amounts  of  meat,  fish, 
poultry,  cheese,  and  eggs  to  make 
nutritious,  low-cost  main  dishes.  When 
frills  are  added,  like  sour  cream,  mush- 
rooms, pimiento,  and  special  cheeses, 
they  become  moderate-  to  liberal-cost 
dishes. 

While  nonenriched,  white  milled 
rice  may  cost  less  than  precooked  or 
converted  rice,  it  is  much  lower  in 
food  value  and  therefore  may  not  be 
a  bargain. 

With  the  present  interest  in  the  un- 
saturated fats,  many  new  fat  and  oil 
products  with  wide  price  ranges  have 
appeared  on  the  market.  Margarines 
requiring  no  refrigeration  are  the  least 
costly.  Often  the  store's  own  brand  is 
the  lowest  price  in  this  group.  Next 
come  the  softer  refrigerated  margarines 
and  then  the  whipped  types.  Butter  is 
usually  higher  priced  than  margarine. 
Vegetable  oils  also  have  a  rather 
wide  price  range.  Olive  oil  is  the 
highest  in  price;  next  are  the  single 
vegetable  oils,  like  safflower  and  corn; 
and  lowest  in  price  are  the  products 
called  vegetable  or  salad  oil,  which 
may  be  a  mixture  of  many  different 
vegetable  oils. 

When  foods  are  in  limited  supply,  as 
at  the  beginning  or  end  of  the  season, 
the  price  is  usually  higher.  This  is  also 
true  if  the  supply  is  limited  as  a  result 
of  crop  failure,  or  if  fewer  animals  are 
being  raised. 

Foods  in  low  or  limited  demand  are 
usually  high  in  price — for  example, 
artichokes,  avocados,  and  papayas. 
Foods  grown  only  in  certain  localities 
are  sometimes  higher.  Dates  grown  in 
the  desert  areas  of  California  and 
cranberries  grown  in  the  bogs  of  New 
England  and  Wisconsin,  however,  are 


^2^fe 


-*e*i;~ 


i  run  mi 

...    ,,miUV 


Choose  package  size  that  best  suits  family 
needs.  Read  labels  for  information  on  nutritive 
value,  weight,  and  price.  Compare  prices  per 
serving. 


enough  in  popular  demand  to  result 
in  a  moderate  price. 

Popular  interest  in  such  foods  as 
duckling  and  guinea  hens  is  limited. 
Those  foods  are  used  only  for  special 
occasions  even  on  a  liberal-cost  budget. 

Food  in  the  large-size  container  is 
generally  less  costly  per  pound  than  in 
the  small  size.  If  the  large  size  fits  the 
family  needs  and  storage  space,  it  can 
save  a  nice  amount  in  the  family  food 
budget.  A  large  size  may  be  too  much, 
however,  for  a  small  family. 

Most  of  the  fresh  foods  in  the  market 
today  are  of  good  quality.  Fancy  or 
prime  quality  food  is  the  most  expen- 
sive. Poor  quality  fresh  fruits  and 
vegetables  can  be  a  poor  buy  because 
blemished,  bruised  portions  must  be 
discarded.  The  nutritive  value  may 
also  have  diminished.  Nutritive  value 
of  the  different  grades  of  meat,  fish, 
and  poultry  does  not  change,  but  the 
lower  grades  may  require  more  prep- 
aration. Use  the  lower  grade  canned 
fruits  and  vegetables  when  they  are 
going  to  be  cut  up  or  cooked  in  cas- 
seroles or  mixtures  and  the  like. 

283 


Specialty  items  like  packaged  beef 
stroganoff,  frozen  shrimp  cocktail, 
cheesecake  mixes,  and  canned  pickled 
artichokes  are  convenient  but  usually 
more  expensive  than  when  prepared 
at  home.  Popular  foods  such  as  frozen 
orange  juice  concentrate,  canned  con- 
centrated soups,  the  powdered  coffees, 
canned  spaghetti,  and  yellow  and 
devil's-food  cake  mixes  are  usually 
less  expensive  than  the  similar  fresh 
or  home-prepared  foods. 

Advances  in  food  processing  provide 
new  convenience  foods  on  the  grocer's 
shelves  almost  daily.  As  the  demand  for 
these  foods  builds  up,  cost  of  produc- 
tion can  be  lowered.  The  concentrated, 
frozen,  and  canned  fruit  and  vegetables 
may  be  less  expensive  because  there  is 
less  waste  and  weight  to  transport  and 
handle  than  with  the  fresh  product. 
Removing  water  and  discarding  inedi- 
ble portions  of  the  food  reduces  the 
bulk  weight,  and  the  perishability. 
The  resulting  efficiency  is  reflected  in 
reduced  costs. 

Highly  perishable  convenience  foods 
like  the  ready-to-eat  baked  products 
can  cost  up  to  twice  as  much  as  the 
home-prepared  products.  Expensive 
packaging,  frequent  replacement,  and 
a  rather  large  variety  add  to  marketing 
costs.  Consider  other  factors  in  addi- 
tion to  price  when  trying  to  decide 
whether  a  convenience  food  is  a  good 
choice.  Preparation  time  and  effort 
can  be  a  major  item.  For  example, 
frozen  beef  stew  needs  only  to  be 
heated.  Preparation  time  for  the  same 
stew  made  from  scratch,  in  the  home, 
would  be  about  40  minutes  plus  about 
2  hours  of  cooking  time.  If  a  money 
value  is  put  on  the  preparation  time 
at  home,  the  frozen  stew  would  be 
cheaper.  The  necessary  defrosting  and 
cooking  time  for  frozen  food  may  not 
be  a  timesaver  when  a  meal  is  to  be 
served  in  a  hurry.  It  may  be  faster  to 
broil  hamburgers,  warm  a  can  of  peas, 
and  prepare  instant  mashed  potatoes 
than  to  heat  up  a  frozen  dinner. 

In  some  cases  the  quality  of  the 
home-prepared  product  may  be  con- 
sidered better.  For  example,  it  may 
contain  larger  quantities  of  the  high- 

284 


priced  items  like  meat.  The  quality 
differences  may  or  may  not  be  impor- 
tant to  the  individual. 

Most  of  the  convenience  foods  now 
list  the  number  and  the  size  of  servings 
on  the  package.  Use  this  information 
to  compare  prices  between  the  fresh, 
partly  prepared,  or  entirely  prepared 
product  which  may  be  fresh,  dried, 
canned,  or  frozen.  Often  a  new  con- 
venience food  is  placed  in  the  grocery 
store  at  a  promotion  or  introductory 
price,  which  can  be  a  sizable  saving. 

You  can  prepare  your  own  conven- 
ience foods.  Make  your  own  basic 
dough,  pie  crust,  and  cookie  mix. 
Prepare  extra  quantities  of  a  recipe 
and  freeze  part  of  it.  A  large  cut  of 
meat  can  be  cut  into  steaks,  roast, 
and  stew  meat — each  section  frozen 
for  future  needs.  Canning  and  freezing 
foods  when  they  are  in  plentiful  supply 
means  part  of  the  preparation  is 
already  done.  It  can  be  a  big  saving 
to  your  food  budget,  if  you  have  the 
needed  time. 

Nutritive  value  of  the  menus  is 
about  the  same.  It  is  typical  that  the 
liberal  budget  food  pattern  is  also  a 
higher  calorie  pattern.  The  calorie 
needs  can  be  adjusted,  however,  by 
making  the  size  of  the  serving  either 
larger  or  smaller.  (See  menus,  p.  285.) 

The  same  food  is  often  suggested  on 
different  menus  but  in  a  different 
form.  Garnishes  like  pickles,  olives, 
and  potato  chips  add  only  cost  and 
calories  and  little  nutritive  value.  The 
low-calorie  soft  drinks  contribute  only 
to  the  cost.  When  frozen  concentrate 
lemonade  (1  quart)  is  16  cents,  a 
6-ounce  serving  is  3  cents,  compared 
with  5  to  10  cents  for  most  soft  drinks. 
The  low-cost  menu  was  planned  to 
include  more  vitamin  A-rich  vege- 
tables to  replace  vitamin  A  lacking 
in  unenriched  dry  nonfat  milk. 

Cost  of  protein-rich  foods  varies 
from  the  relatively  inexpensive  peanut 
butter  to  moderate-priced  bologna  and 
expensive  sliced,  boiled  ham.  Many 
families  use  bologna  because  they  feel 
it  is  a  low-cost  meat. 

Meat  combined  with  spaghetti  paste 


A  Day's  Menu  at  Different  Costs 


BREAKFAST 

Orange  juice  (canned) 
Oatmeal  with  reconstituted 

nonfat  milk 
Enriched  white  toast 
Margarine 
Jelly 
Reconstituted  nonfat  milk  for 

children 
Instant  coffee 

LUNCH 

Cream  of  tomato  soup  (made 
with  dry  nonfat  milk) 

Peanut  butter  and  raisin 
sandwich  (enriched  bread) 

Celery  and  carrot  sticks 

Reconstituted  nonfat  milk  for 

children 
Instant  coffee 

SNACK 

Lemonade 
Oatmeal  cookies 

DINNER 

Spaghetti  with  meat  sauce 

Winter  squash 


Biscuits 
Margarine 
Bread  pudding 
Reconstituted  nonfat  milk  for 

children 
Instant  coffee 


Moderate 

Orange  juice  (frozen) 
Wheat  flakes  with  whole  milk 

Whole  wheat  toast 

Margarine 

Jelly 

Whole  milk  for  children 

Coffee 


Dehydrated  onion  soup 

Bologna  sandwich  (enriched 

bread) 
Head  lettuce  salad,  thousand 

island  dressing 
Whole  milk 


Cider 
Brownies 


Beef  stew  with  potatoes, 

carrots,  onions 
Tomato  and  lettuce  salad  with 

mayonnaise 


Custard 

Whole  milk  for  children 

Coffee 


Liberal 

Sliced  oranges 
Sugarfrosted  rice  cereal  with 

fruit  and  half-and-half 
Sweet  rolls 


Whole  milk  for  children 
Coffee 

Frozen  tomato  bisque 

Boiled  ham  on  dark  rye  bread 

Deviled  egg,  pickles,  olives, 

potato  chips 
Whole  milk  for  children 

Coffee 


Low-calorie  soft  drink 
Assorted  butter  cookies 


Standing  rib  roast 

Baked  potato 

Zucchini,  onion,  and  cheese 

casserole 
Romaine  salad  with  blue 

cheese  dressing 


Toffee  ice  cream 
Whole  milk  for  children 


Coffee 


contains  less  protein  than  stew  and 
roast  beef,  but  the  protein  in  biscuits 
and  bread  pudding  will  make  up  the 
difference. 

Deciding  what  foods  to  buy  for  the 
family  depends  upon  many  factors: 
family  likes  and  dislikes;  size  of  family 
and  ages  of  family  members;  number 
of  meals  eaten  at  home;  the  kinds  of 
meals — normal  three  meals  a  day 
versus  irregular  meal  times,  frequent 


snacks;  the  amount  of  money  available 
for  food;  time  available  for  shopping 
and  for  preparing  food;  skill  in  plan- 
ning, preparing,  and  in  serving  food; 
storage  and  cooking  facilities;  and 
who  does  most  of  the  planning,  pur- 
chasing, and  cooking. 

Careful  planning  will  result  in  good 
meals  and  a  satisfied  family.  No  two 
families  will  come  out  with  the  same 
answer. 


285 


Ellen  H.  Semrow 


Money  Stretching 
Ideas  for  Making 
Your  Food  Dollar 
Go  F-u-r-t-h-e-r 


A  food  dollar  is  precious.  It  purchases 
food  to  satisfy  hunger.  It  brings  famil- 
iar foods  to  the  table  where  all  can 
share  in  the  warm,  happy  feeling  that 
comes  from  enjoying  food  together. 
Used  wisely,  your  food  dollar  can  do 
all  this  and  more.  It  can,  with  plan- 
ning, provide  foods  to  help  each  family 
member,  young  and  old,  become  the 
energetic  and  healthy  individual  that 
he  wants  to  be. 

The  person  purchasing  and  serving 
food  should  know  the  value  of  every 
dollar.  Although  a  certain  amount  of 
food  money  is  placed  in  the  pocket- 
book  each  week,  some  of  it  goes  for 
away-from-home  meals.  And  it  may 
be  called  on  to  cover  emergencies — a 
doctor  or  car  repair  bill;  the  purchase 
of  new  shoes.  In  that  event,  how  to 
make  the  most  of  what  is  left  calls  for 
pennypinching  with  know-how. 

To  have  food  in  the  refrigerator,  in 
the  cupboard,  or  on  the  pantry  shelf 
and  cash  on  hand  means  future  meals. 
Planning  can  do  much  to  bring  about 
this  security. 

Each  family's  plan  is  theirs  alone. 
It  changes  as  the  family  grows  in  num- 
ber and  in  years.  It  changes  with  the 
season,  with  prices  for  food. 

286 


To  have  cash  on  hand,  you  may 
purchase  food  by  the  meal  or  by  the 
day.  Or  you  may  purchase  only  the 
foods  needed  as  you  can  afford  them 
and  round  out  the  commodities  you 
receive.  Also,  you  may  be  forced  to 
shop  often  because  you  share  a  kitchen 
or  because  the  equipment  and  storage 
space  do  not  fit  your  needs. 

Payday  is  shopping  day  for  many. 
A  family  may  spend  a  certain  amount, 
trying  to  purchase  food  to  last  out  the 
week.  Because  of  tradition,  another 
family  may  purchase  expensive  regional 
or  imported  items,  adding  other  foods 
as  dollars  allow. 

Families  far  from  shopping  centers 
must  have  food  supplies  to  last  more 
than  2  weeks.  Each  trip  costs  money. 

Others  can  afford  to  pursue  and 
purchase  quantities  of  bargain-priced 
foods  for  future  use.  And  those  with 
gardens  have  a  supply  of  fresh,  canned, 
or  frozen  foods. 

Working  homemakers  purchase  more 
convenience  foods  than  stay-at-homes 
do.  Often  it  is  the  children  who  shop, 
cook,  and  serve  meals  when  mothers 
cannot  be  at  home.  For  such  families, 
teamwork  in  planning  and  doing  is  a 
necessity. 

To  use  food  money  well,  first  con- 
sider the  food  needs  of  every  family 
member.  Then  weigh  these  against 
the  dollars  you  have  to  spend.  Get  the 
most  for  the  least  by: 

•  Picking  from  the  plentiful  foods  in 
planning  meals  and  snacks. 

•  Shopping  from  a  prepared  list. 

•  Spending  the  food  money  in  stores 
stocking  a  wide  variety  of  good  foods, 
where  the  average  price  means  lower 
grocery  and  meat  bills  for  you  week 
in  and  week  out. 

One  homemaker  may  plan  weekly 
menus  as  she  studies  food  advertise- 
ments. Another  is  so  skilled  she  can  see 
in  her  mind's  eye  each  of  the  meals  she 
will  prepare  for  the  family  and  guests, 


Ellen  H.  Semrow  is  Director,  Consumer  Service 
Department,  of  the  American  Institute  of  Baking, 
Chicago,  III. 


making  use  of  best  buys.  Both  will  have 
other  choices  in  mind  should  they  be 
disappointed  in  the  "special  offers"  or 
discover  that  the  supermarket  is  sold 
out  of  what  they  wanted.  Both  types  of 
homemakers  plan  and  use  shopping 
lists  as  guides.  Experience  has  taught 
them  that  this  is  a  good  way  to  save 
energy  and  money. 

How  to  Make  a  Shopping  List: 

Jot  down  the  needed  items  as  food 
supplies  run  low. 

Inventory  the  refrigerator,  freezer, 
and  shelves.  First,  plan  uses  for  your 
leftovers. 

List  the  same  kinds  of  foods  and 
supplies  together. 

Watch  food  advertisements.  Foods 
in  plentiful  supply  are  at  the  peak  of 
their  quality  and  are  reasonably  priced. 

"Specials"  may  be  closeouts,  to  be 
sold  before  the  new  crop  or  pack 
arrives  at  the  store. 

Shop  newspaper  pages,  compare  all 
prices,  the  ones  in  small  print  as  well 
as  big  offerings. 

Those  caught  in  the  low-income 
squeeze  who  cannot  afford  newspapers, 
and  those  who  cannot  read  even  the 
free  advertisements,  can  by  working 
together  with  others  plan  purchases 
and  shopping  trips.  Sharing  talents, 
experiences,  and  expenses  is  one  way 
to  obtain  more  for  less.  Community 
helpers  may  advise  on  the  good"  buys, 


show  how  to  use  new  foods,  organize 
shopping  trips.  They  may  make  trans- 
portation available  at  cost. 

Place  perishable  and  frozen  foods 
last  on  your  list.  Purchase  them  just 
before  "checking  out." 

Be  sure  your  shopping  list  contains 
the  foods  needed  for  each  person,  on 
each  day. 

Do  servings  from  the  meat  group 
total  at  least  two?  Include  dry  beans 
or  peas,  eggs,  and  cheese  with  meat. 

See  that  four  or  more  servings  of 
enriched  or  whole-grain  breads  and 
cereals  are  included. 

Servings  of  fruits  and  vegetables 
should  add  up  to  four.  Include  deep- 
green  and  yellow  vegetables  and  vita- 
min C-rich  fruits  or  juices. 

Plan  for  three  to  four  cups  of  milk 
a  day  for  children;  two  cups  for  adults. 
Include  milk  used  in  cooking.  Cheese 
counts  here. 

Total  the  food  costs,  omitting  clean- 
ing and  household  supplies.  If  cuts 
are  needed,  start  in  trimming  and 
substituting. 

Money-Saving  Suggestions: 

Rethink  meat.  It  takes  about  a  third 
of  the  food  allowance.  Plan  entrees 
around  less-tender  cuts.  Pick  those 
with  the  most  meat  to  eat  for  money 
spent.  If  pig  ears,  snouts,  and  tails 
are  used  often,  be  sure  to  include 
additional  red  meat.  Lunch  meats  are 


Cost  per  Serving  of  Commonly  Used  Fresh  Pork  Variety  Meats* 


Price  per  pound  in  pennies 


34         37 


Retail  cut      Servings     19         21  24       29  31 

per        

pound  Cost  per  serving 


41  44  47         49 


Pork- 
fresh: 

Chitter- 
lings  

Pig  ears 

Pork 
snouts. . . 

Hog  fries... 

Hog  maws. 

Pork  liver. . 

Neck 
bones 

Pork  tails. . 


3       6+789+      10+      11+      12+      13         13+      14+      15+   16+ 

2       9+      10+    12       14+      15+      17+      18+      19+     20+     22         23+  24+ 
1      19        21       24       29        31         34        37         39         41        44        47      49 


•Information  developed  from  personal  interviews  with  packers,  retailers,  and  public  aid  workers  in  the  Chicago  area,  1968. 


287 


costly.  Plan  more  large  roasts  and  use 
some  of  the  meat  for  sandwiches.  Pass 
up  chicken  parts;  cut  up  a  whole  bird. 
Use  fish  if  the  price  pinch  is  less. 

Bulk  cheese  costs  less  per  pound 
than  sliced  or  grated  cheese. 

Run  in  favorite  recipes  with  stretch- 
power;  extend  the  meat  or  fish  with 
bread,  rice,  noodles,  and  pasta — spa- 
ghetti, macaroni,  etc. 

Plan  uses  for  dry  beans  and  peas. 

Buy  cereals  that  require  cooking 
instead  of  ready-to-serve  ones. 

Use  vegetable  shortening,  marga- 
rine, and  butter  to  thriftiest  advantage. 

Scan  luxury  snacks  such  as  potato 
chips,  popped  corn,  corn  puffs.  Of 
this  group,  pretzels  cost  less  per  ounce. 
Private  label  brands  and  larger  pack- 
ages normally  cost  less  per  ounce  for 
like  quality. 

Soft  drinks  cost  less  per  ounce  in 
returnable  bottles  than  in  disposable 
cans  or  bottles.  Save  on  larger-sized 
bottles  and  lesser-known  brands. 


Skip  cosdy  low-calorie,  instant  or 
convenience  meal  items.  Example: 
Buttered  toast  spread  with  preserves 
is  cheaper  than  fruit-filled  popups. 

Choose  from  abundant  and  low-cost 
vegetables  and  fruit  rather  than  from 
unusual  or  imported  varieties.  Buy 
the  least  expensive  forms,  whether 
fresh,  frozen,  or  canned.  Example: 
Root  vegetables  such  as  sweetpotatoes 
or  white  potatoes,  turnips,  carrots, 
and  beets  might  take  the  place  of 
Puerto  Rican  plantains,  yautias,  and 
yucas. 

Select  lower  grades  wherever  you 
can  without  losing  appetite  appeal 
and  usefulness.  An  example:  Grade  B 
eggs  can  be  used  for  baking  and  for 
some  egg  dishes. 

The  locally  grown  beans,  dried  or 
canned,  are  cheaper  than  imported 
beans. 

Select  juices  and  drinks  for  vitamin 
C  value.  Rule  out  fruit-flavored  choices 
supplying  only  sugar. 


Bread  cubes  and  noodles  give  stretchpower  to  this  Rosy  Beef  Romanoff. 


Substitute  dried  or  evaporated  milk 
for  part  of  the  fresh  milk. 

If  you  have  made  every  possible 
saving  and  still  find  yourself  spending 
more  than  you  should,  replan  the 
menus.  Begin  by  cutting  quantities  of 
meat,  poultry,  and  fish;  vegetables 
and  fruits  less  rich  in  vitamins  A  and 
C.  Add  more  bread,  cereals,  potatoes, 
and  dry  beans  and  peas.  Keep  quanti- 
ties of  milk  and  cheese,  green  and 
yellow  vegetables,  tomatoes,  and  citrus 
fruits  and  juices  the  same. 

With  menus  planned  and  shopping 
list  ready,  two  more  decisions  need 
to  be  made — where  to  shop  and  how. 

Prices  vary  with  store  policy  and 
location,  even  within  the  city.  For 
savings,  patronize  a  cash-and-carry 
store.  Which  one?  Ask  yourself  these 
questions: 

Does  the  store  stock  a  wide  variety 
of  food?  Is  there  a  consumer  adviser 
to  help  you?  Does  it  offer  value, 
quality,  and  freshness  at  lowest  prices? 
Are  the  surroundings  neat  and  clean? 

Are  the  fresh  meat  and  produce 
counters  filled  with  quality  items, 
trimmed  to  reduce  waste,  and  rea- 
sonably priced?  Can  you  examine 
bagged  produce?  Is  the  added  cost 
of  feature  games,  stamps,  check  cash- 
ing services,  and  perhaps  hot  coffee,  in 
addition  to  ample  parking  space, 
worth  it  to  you? 

Shopping  special  offers  means  going 
from  store  to  store.  Consider  transpor- 
tation, time,  and  energy.  Such  a  trip 
may  offset  savings.  You  may  fare 
better  with  one-store  shopping  where 
pricing  policy  and  services  suit  your 
needs.  Recheck  prices  often.  Compare 
items  with  those  advertised  by  com- 
petitors to  be  sure  that  you  get  your 
dollar's  worth. 

Careful  buyers  can  save  even  in 
times  of  a  price  pinch.  Staples  offer 
biggest  savings:  enriched  flour,  rice, 
and  bread;  margarine;  sugar;  and  the 
simple  convenience  foods  like  some 
biscuit  and  cake  mixes.  Canned  chicken 
soup  and  instant  coffee  are  usually 
good  buys.  Plan  your  available  kitchen 
time  so  you  can  save  by  cooking  from 
scratch. 


Pointers  for  Pricers: 

Know  the  grades  for  food  quality 
developed  by  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture. 

Read  labels  and  inspection  stamps. 

Compare  sale  prices  with  the  stock 
prices.  Spotlighted  product  displays 
may  suggest  a  bargain.  Check  the 
shelves.  The  featured  price  may  be 
the  usual  price.  Look  for  a  competing 
product  of  the  same  size  and  quality. 
You  may  save  here. 

Think  about  quality  in  terms  of  use. 
Why  use  fresh  tomatoes  when  canned 
ones  will  do? 

Compare  costs  of  various  forms  of 
food — fresh,  instant,  dried,  frozen,  or 
canned;  enriched  or  unenriched.  Buy 
the  type  which  suits  needs  and  food 
likes.  Example:  Frozen  spinach,  free 
from  waste,  may  cost  less  per  serving 
than  fresh.  Enriched  bread  costs  no 
more  than  the  unenriched  kind. 

The  seasonal  food  prices  should  be 
noted.  Keep  track  of  the  trends.  Buy 
when  prices  are  down.  Substitute  when 
prices  are  up. 

Take  advantage  of  private  label 
items  when  the  quality  and  price  are 
right. 

Think  of  cost  per  serving  or  portion 
rather  than  price  per  pound,  especially 
when  it  comes  to  meat.  Cuts  high  in 
bone  and  fat  cost  more  per  person 
than  cuts  with  little  waste.  Example: 
Spareribs  versus  rolled  pork  loin. 

Buy  all  cereal  foods  by  the  cost  per 
ounce  or  pound. 

Buy  foods  that  store  well  and  in 
largest  sized  packages  which  can  be 
used  in  a  reasonable  length  of  time 
and  not  hog  shelf,  freezer,  or  refriger- 
ator space. 

Judge  values  in  fresh  fruits  and 
vegetables.  Make  your  own  selection, 
handpick  whenever  you  can.  Use 
thought  and  care  in  handling  perish- 
ables. Adding  to  spoilage  adds  to  costs. 

Do  not  buy  merely  because  the 
price  is  low.  Buy  to  suit  your  needs. 

Consider  produce  in  season  and 
grown  nearby. 

Look  for  signs  of  decay,  bruises,  or 
blemishes.  Choose  only  sound  items. 

Select  fruits  such  as  apples,  peaches, 

289 


and  melons  for  use,  and  thus  reduce 
waste.  Example:  Why  hand  a  huge 
apple  to  a  small  girl  who  can  eat  only 
a  small  apple? 

Small  produce  may  be  sold  by 
measure.  Check  containers  for  loose 
pack;  for  fancy  items  on  top,  culls  on 
the  bottom. 

Develop  the  habit  of  doing  mental 
arithmetic  while  you  shop.  For  easy 
division,  round  out  servings  or  ounces 
and  prices  and  get  approximate  costs. 

Always  shop  from  a  list.  Try  to  shop 
alone,  when  die  store  is  not  crowded. 
Impulse  buying  is  less  when  one  is  not 
under  pressure  from  prodding  shop- 
ping carts  and  clamors  for  goodies.  If 
children  are  along,  they  should  be 
present  at  the  checkout  counter  to 
learn  firsthand  that  food  costs  money. 

If  the  man  of  the  house  does  the 
shopping,  then  he  should  be  in  on  prep- 
aration of  the  list.  Children  old  enough 
to  take  part  should  be  included. 

Be  the  consumer's  best  friend  when 
you  shop.  Treat  all  merchandise  you 
handle  as  if  you  were  paying  for  it. 
Place  unwanted  goods  back  where  they 
belong.  Handle  shopping  carts  with 
care.  Any  loss  or  damage  to  merchan- 
dise or  property  increases  supermarket 
costs,  costs  for  which  the  consumer 
always  pays. 

Select  packaged  foods  carefully.  The 
packaging  may  be  worth  more  than 
the  contents.  Examples:  Individually 
wrapped  or  trayed  cookies  in  special 
boxes,  heat-and-eat  dinners,  imported 
foods  like  crackers  and  oatmeal  in  tins. 

Be  sure  all  canned  and  packaged 
items  are  in  good  condition.  Check 
milk  cartons  for  dripping.  Inspect  but- 
ter cartons  with  care.  Get  what  you 
pay  for.  Look  at  egg  cartons  for  wet 
or  dry  egg  solids.  Open  lid  carefully. 
Don't  buy  if  any  eggs  are  cracked. 
Close  properly. 

Check  processing  dates  on  all  pack- 
ages carrying  them.  Buy  those  with 
the  most  recent  datemark. 

Watch  the  scale.  It  should  carry  an 
inspection  stamp  showing  it  has  been 
checked  for  accuracy.  Be  sure  it  regis- 
ters zero  before  item  is  weighed.  Have 
weight  checked  on  bagged  produce. 

290 


Watch  the  checker  as  your  bill  is 
rung  up  on  the  cash  register.  Follow 
each  entry  to  be  certain  you  are  charged 
only  for  actual  purchases  and  that 
prices  are  right.  Ask  for  a  "recount" 
if  you  feel  an  error  has  been  made. 

With  experience  in  planning  and 
shopping  you  will  learn  that  price 
alone  does  not  always  mean  a  best 
buy.  You  will  know  how  to  pick  foods 
for  their  real  value. 

Prompt  and  proper  storage  of  food 
in  the  home  saves  food  value,  flavor, 
texture,  and  appearance.  Spoilage  and 
waste  can  undo  savings. 

Foods  that  do  not  require  refrigera- 
tion at  all,  or  none  until  the  package 
or  can  has  been  opened,  keep  best 
when  tightly  sealed  and  stored  in  a 
dry,  cool  spot  away  from  light  and 
heat.  In  hot,  damp  climates,  some 
foods  must  be  placed  in  covered  con- 
tainers for  protection.  Keep  only  short 
supplies  of  these.  Make  certain  that 
containers  and  shelves  are  clean. 

Refrigerator  temperature  should  be 
35°  F.  to  45°  F.  To  store,  always  cover 
or  wrap  foods  to  prevent  moisture  loss. 
Use  most  perishable  items  first.  Left- 
overs won't  be  skipped  if  kept  at  front 
of  shelves. 

Freezer  temperatures  should  be  zero 
or  lower.  The  food  taken  from  the 
freezer  can  be  only  as  good  as  that 
which  you  put  in,  provided  that  it  was 
wrapped  properly  and  was  not  stored 
overlong.  Freeze  foods  which  mean 
real  savings.  All  packages  should  be 
labeled  with  date,  kind,  and  amount 
of  food.  Freeze  only  2  pounds  for 
each  cubic  foot  of  space  every  6  hours. 
If  you  have  a  large  freezer,  jot  down 
items  and  dates  as  you  store.  Scratch 
each  package  off  the  list  upon  removal, 
the  oldest  first. 

If  meat  is  boned  out,  wrap  and 
freeze  the  bones.  When  enough  are  on 
hand,  make  soup. 

If  there  is  a  special  on  ground  beef 
in  large  packages,  divide  into  portions 
before  wrapping  and  freezing;  some 
for  meat  sauce  for  spaghetti,  some 
shaped  into  individual  patties. 

Ham  trimmings  can  stand  short- 
time  freezing.  Use  with  greens. 


When  ground  beef  has  to  show  up 
on  the  family  menu  every  other 
day,  try  Beef  Balls  Potpourri 
for  variety.  Ingredients  include 
stuffing,  a  tomato  sauce,  thin 
slices  of  peeled  cucumber,  strips 
of  green  pepper,  and  onion  rings. 


When  you  have  to  create  meals 
from  but  few  ingredients,  using  them 
more  than  once  a  day,  sameness  shows 
up  fast.  Ban  monotony  and  waste 
through  pennywise  preparation.  Dis- 
cover new  ways  with  foods.  You  can 
learn  how  to  make  even  third-time- 
around  food  far  tastier  by  attending 
demonstrations  or  classes  or  by  using 
tested  recipes. 

•  Peanut  butter  sandwich  fillings  can 
be  different.  Add  applesauce,  chili 
sauce,  or  orange  juice  and  grated 
rind  to  it;  enough  to  make  it  spread- 
able.  Scones,  hushpuppies,  brownies, 
and  fruit  salad  dressing  can  be  made 
with  peanut  butter. 

•  Flick  bread  slices  in  and  out  of  an 
egg-milk  mixture,  coat  slices  with 
cornmeal  or  breadcrumbs,  pan  fry  for 
new  flavor  and  texture. 

•  Cut  biscuit  dough  and  bread  into  dif- 
ferent shapes.  Serve  with  new  spreads. 
Cube  or  crumb  bread  trimmings. 

•  Fry  rice  Chinese  style  and  serve  it 
under  a  blanket  of  hot,  thick  tomato 
sauce  garnished  with  bits  of  fried  ham 
or    sausage    and    shredded    Cheddar 


cheese.  Or,  layer  hot  rice,  chopped 
ham,  sour  cream  and  shredded  Ched- 
dar cheese  in  a  baking  dish,  finishing 
off  with  cheese;  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
for  10  minutes. 

Do  not  repeat  flavors  or  colors  on 
a  menu — apple  salad  and  apple  pie, 
red  beets  and  red  cabbage. 

Too  many  strong  aromas  at  any 
one  meal,  such  as  garlic,  onion,  and 
cabbage,  can  ruin  appetites. 

Recipes  are  needed  when  you  are 
learning  to  use  strange  foods.  Intro- 
duce new  dishes  with  this  plan :  Offer 
them  at  dinner,  serving  small  portions 
along  with  familiar  foods.  Children 
tend  to  accept  a  new  food  if  parents 
show  they  like  it. 

Food  wastage  is  less  with  the  tested 
recipes.  Preparation  is  easier,  dishes 
are  tastier,  failures  are  fewer  when 
measuring  spoons  and  cups  are  used. 
Always  measure  dry  ingredients  with 
dry  cups  and  spoons.  Pots  and  pans  of 
the  right  size  are  important,  too.  If 
you  lack  equipment,  it  helps  to  think 
about  how  to  do  it  with  what  you 
have  on  hand. 

291 


Clock  your  time  and  ability  to  cook 
and  serve  meals.  Remember  that  a  few 
well-chosen  foods,  all  on  the  table  at 
the  right  time,  make  a  more  satis- 
factory meal  than  many  carelessly  pre- 
pared dishes  straggling  along. 

Homemakers  with  little  kitchen 
time,  who  cannot  afford  heat-and-eat 
foods,  can  divide  some  favorite  recipes 
into  steps.  Decide  what  can  be  pre- 
pared on  the  night  before  and  safely 
refrigerated,  then  what  must  be  done 
at  mealtime  in  a  few  minutes.  Such 
recipes,  when  planned  into  menus, 
give  these  bonuses:  Savings  in  time 
and  money,  balanced  meals,  happier 
people  at  the  table. 

Quick-cooking  foods  are  best  started 
after  all  who  will  eat  are  at  home. 
Overcooking  and  extra-long  holding  of 
foods  rob  the  eating  quality.  If  foods 
must  be  served  at  different  times, 
prepare  those  which  can  be  held  over 
or  reheated. 

Check  foods  as  they  cook  to  avoid 
scorching,  especially  those  cooking  in 
little  water. 

Use  a  sharp  knife  for  carving  meat. 
Remember:  Attractively  sliced  meat, 
when  arranged  on  a  platter  or  placed 
on  a  plate,  looks  elegant. 

All  foods  should  be  picture  pretty, 
alone  or  together.  Their  colors,  shapes, 
sizes,  and  textures  should  flatter  each 
other. 

Foods  have  right  serving  tempera- 
tures. Ice  cream  at  zero  is  too  cold. 
Refrigerate  it  a  short  time,  letting  the 
flavor  bloom  before  serving.  Mashed 
potatoes  are  delicious  when  hot,  sad 
when  cold.  Bananas  taste  best  at  room 
temperature. 

Breads  and  rolls  are  good  at  either 
room  temperature  or  oven-warm. 

Use  these  facts:  Tart  foods  sharpen 
appetites;  sweets  dull  them.  Crunchy 
or  crisp  foods  add  texture  contrast: 
hard  rolls  with  the  soups  and  stews, 
crisp  toast  with  creamed  dishes. 

Show  off  foods  to  advantage.  The 
right  tablecloth,  place  mats,  dishes, 
glassware,  and  flowers  can  light  up  a 
meal.  Wrongly  used,  they  turn  off  ap- 
petites— orange  juice  in  purple  glasses, 
for  instance.  If  you  can  have  but  one 

292 


set  of  dishes,  stick  to  a  plain  design 
and  light  colors.  Pick  clear  glassware. 
With  these,  and  color  in  tablecloths 
and  the  decorations,  you  can  avoid 
problems. 

Ways  to  encourage  good  eating  in- 
clude a  change  of  pace  in  meal  service. 
Surprise  the  family  with  an  occasional 
indoor  or  outdoor  picnic.  Use  fanfare 
upon  special  days.  Rather  than  rush 
through  a  meal  to  see  a  TV  show, 
make  it  a  tray  supper. 

Each  person  is  an  individual.  Appe- 
tites vary  with  age  and  how  one  feels 
at  the  moment.  Keep  servings  small. 
Let  each  ask  for  more  as  long  as  he 
eats  what  is  on  the  plate. 

Snacking  dulls  the  appetite,  wrecks 
food  budgets.  Eating  a  week's  supply 
of  apples  in  1  day  not  only  spoils  the 
desire  for  other  food,  it  discourages 
the  cook.  Check  food  binges.  Snacks 
should  be  part  of  the  food  plan. 

You  have  three  assets  in  leftovers — 
savings  in  time  since  they  are  already 
cooked,  an  extra  stretch  for  the  food 
budget,  and  variety. 

The  trick  to  using  leftovers  is  to 
change  their  appearance  and  step  up 
the  flavor  as  much  as  possible.  One- 
dish  meals  and  scalloped  dishes  (vari- 
ous cooked  foods  heated  in  sauce) 
make  a  changeover  easier.  You  can 
extend  the  meats  and  vegetables  with 
dumplings  and  biscuits;  with  rice, 
macaroni,  noodles,  and  bread  cubes. 
You  can  top  off  such  entrees  with 
french-fried  onion  rings,  Chinese  noo- 
dles, or  seasoned  croutons.  Eye  appeal 
doubles  when  colorful  ingredients  like 
chopped  tomato,  pimiento,  green  on- 
ions, chives,  or  green  pepper  are  added 
to  toppings. 

Omelets  and  french  toast  are  more 
tasty  with  bits  of  leftovers.  A  small 
amount  of  cooked  vegetables  can 
stand  an  hour  or  two  in  french  dress- 
ing for  added  flavor.  Strips  of  leftover 
meats  and  cheeses  make  salads  hearty. 

Second-time-around  fruits — cooked, 
canned,  or  fresh — can  be  added  to 
cottage  cheese.  You  can  replan  these 
into  desserts  along  with  other  fruits. 
They,  like  vegetables,  can  be  added 
to  flavored  gelatins,  chilled  in  molds, 


and  turned  out  on  lettuce  or  shredded 
cabbage. 

Encourage  the  eating  of  salads  and 
soups  by  adding  seasoned,  toasted 
bread  cubes  before  serving.  Cubes  also 
can  become  puddings,  fruit  desserts, 
or  stuffings.  Crumbs  can  be  used  to 
coat  foods  for  frying.  Doughnuts  can 
be  split,  spread  with  marmalade,  and 
broiled  for  a  moment.  Renew  cakes 
and  cookies  by  serving  them  with  fruit 
sauces  and  ice  cream. 

When  it  comes  to  getting  the  most 
out  of  food  money,  one  thing  more  is 
necessary.  It  is  the  enthusiastic  and 
thrifty-minded  homemaker  who  pre- 
pares food  with  imagination  and  joy 
and  serves  it  with  pride.  She  creates  the 
atmosphere  for  enjoying  food.  To  her, 


as  it  should  be  to  every  one  of  us,  food 
is  precious. 

How  To  Use  Table: 

Assume  chuck  roast  (bone-in),  lamb 
shoulder  roast,  and  Boston  butt  (bone- 
in)  are  all  59  cents  per  pound.  Which 
is  the  more  economical  choice?  Just 
match  the  price  per  pound  with  the 
meat  cut  you  are  comparing.  Reading 
the  table  under  the  59  cents  per  pound 
column  shows  chuck  roast  at  30  cents 
per  serving,  lamb  shoulder  roast  at 
24  cents  per  serving,  and  the  bone-in 
Boston  butt  at  20  cents  per  serving. 
Servings  are  from  2%  to  3%  ounces  of 
cooked  lean  meat. 

(Marketing  Information  for  Con- 
sumers, Cooperative  Extension  Serv- 
ice, Ohio  State  University,  Columbus.) 


Cost  per  Serving  of  Red  Meat  and  Poultry 


Retail  cut 


Servings 

per  pound 


Price  per  pound 


29   39   49   59   69   79 


99   109   119   129   139 


Cost  per  serving 


BEEF: 

Sirloin  Steak 

Porterhouse,  T-bone,  Rib 

Steak 

Round  Steak 

Chuck  Roast,  bone-in. . . 

Rib  Roast — boneless 

Rib  Roast— bone-in 

Rump,  Sirloin  Roast. . . . 

Ground  Beef 

Short  Ribs 

Heart,  Liver,  Kidney. . . . 

Frankfurters 

Stew  Meat,  boneless 

LAMB: 

Loin,  Rib,  Shoulder 

Chops 

Breast,  Shank 

Shoulder  Roast 

Leg  of  Lamb 

PORK— FRESH: 

Center  Cut  or  Rib 

Chops 

Loin  or  Rib  Roast 

Boston  butt— bone-in. . . 

Blade  Steak 

Spare  Ribs 

PORK— CURED: 

Picnic— bone-in 

Ham— fully  cooked: 

bone-in 

boneless  and  canned. 

shankless 

center  slice 

POULTRY: 

Broiler,  ready-to-cook. . . 

legs,  thighs 

breasts 

Turkey,  ready-to-cook: 

under  12  lbs 

12  lbs.  and  over 


2i/2     12     16     20     24     28     32     36     40       44      48       52      56 


2 

3% 

2 


31/2 

4M 
5 


15 
8 

15 


2M>     12 
2         15 


10 
7 

15 
6 
7 
6 


3 

10 

2 

lb 

2Vo 

12 

3 

10 

4 

7 

2V, 

12 

3 

10 

3 

10 

1% 

22 

20  25 

11  14 

20  25 

16  20 

20  25 

13  16 

10  12 

20  25 

8  10 

10  12 

8  10 


13  16 

20  25 

16  20 

13  16 


10  12 

16  20 

13  16 

13  16 

29  37 


iy3  22 

3  10 

4  7 

1  29 

V/3  22 


30  35 

17  20 

30  35 

24  28 

30  35 

20  23 

15  17 

30  35 

12  14 

15  17 

12  14 


20  23 

30  35 

24  28 

20  23 


15  17 

24  28 

20  23 

20  23 

44  52 


40  45  50 

23  25  28 

40  45  50 

32  36  40 

40  45  50 

26  30  33 

20  22  25 

40  45  50 

16  18  20 

20  22  25 

16  18  20 


26  30  33 

40  45  50 

32  36  40 

26  30  33 


20  22  25 

32  36  40 

26  30  33 

26  30  33 

59  67  74 


15  20  25  30  35  40  45  50 


11  14 

8  10 

9  12 
8  10 

29  37 

13  16 

10  12 

39  49 

29  37 


17  20 

12  14 

14  16 
12  14 

44  52 

20  23 

15  17 

59  69 

44  52 


23  25  28 

16  18  20 

19  21  23 
16  18  20 

59  67  74 

26  30  33 

20  22  25 

79  89  99 

59  67  74 


55 
31 
55 
44 
55 
36 
27 
55 
22 
27 
22 


36 
55 
44 
36 


27 
44 
36 
36 
82 

55 

31 
22 
26 
22 


82 
36 
27 


109  119 
82   89 


60 
34 
60 
48 
60 
40 
30 
60 
24 
30 
24 


40 
60 
48 

40 


30 
48 
40 
40 
89 


34 
24 
28 

24 

89 

40 
30 


65 
37 
65 
52 
65 
43 
32 
65 
26 
"32 
26 


37 
26 
30 
26 


70 
40 
70 
56 
70 
46 
35 
70 
28 
35 
28 


43  46 

65  70 

52  56 

43  46 


32  35 

52  56 

43  46 

43  46 

97  104 


60   65   70 


40 
28 
33 
28 


97  104 

43  46 

32  35 

129  139 

97  104 


293 


Haivye  Lewis 


A  Food  Glide 
for  the  Ages, 
From  Baby 
to  Gramps 


Each  of  us  has  an  individual  need 
for  food,  yet  we  usually  like  to  eat  with 
others.  Socializing  with  food  is  one  of 
the  more  pleasant  aspects  of  our  way 
of  life.  We  like  to  share  meals  with 
friends  and  family.  In  contrast  to  the 
hospital  tray,  these  meals  may  be 
adapted  to  personal  requirements  by 
changing  the  size  of  servings  and  mak- 
ing a  few  substitutions. 

Differences  in  activities,  body  size, 
and  stages  of  growth  are  the  main 
reasons  for  individual  food  needs.  The 
quantity  of  food  for  a  person  is  usually 
measured  in  terms  of  energy  or  cal- 
ories. Building  materials  are  proteins 
and  minerals,  especially  calcium,  phos- 
phorus, magnesium,  and  iron.  Reac- 
tions are  continuously  going  on  in  the 
body  to  use  our  food  for  energy  or  for 
tissue  building.  Vitamins  are  necessary 
for  these  reactions. 

Energy  needs  increase  with  body 
size  and  activity.  The  minimum  energy 
need  for  maintaining  muscle  tone  and 
functioning  of  internal  organs  is  called 
basal  metabolism,  and  this  amounts 
to  approximately  1,700  calories  in  a 
young  man  and  to  1,400  in  a  young 
woman.  Because  of  their  smaller  size, 
children  require  fewer  calories  than 

294 


adults  even  though  their  energy  ex- 
penditure is  higher  per  unit  of  body 
weight  Activity  may  cause  variations 
in  energy  need  amounting  to  several 
thousand  calories  per  day.  Persons  in 
the  same  profession  may  have  avoca- 
tions that  run  the  gamut  from  watch- 
ing television  to  playing  tennis.  Man's 
use  of  gasoline  and  electricity  to  per- 
form work  formerly  accomplished  by 
muscles  is  causing  Americans  to  get  fat. 

Research  on  nutritional  needs  has 
been  going  on  since  before  the  turn  of 
the  century,  and  there  is  a  scientific 
background  for  planning  meals.  Since 
the  early  1940's  the  Food  and  Nutri- 
tion Board  of  the  National  Research 
Council  has  reviewed  the  available  in- 
formation at  five-year  intervals  and 
brought  out  the  publication  Recom- 
mended Dietary  Allowances.  The  amounts 
of  nutrients  recommended  are  the 
requirements  plus  a  safety  factor  in 
most  cases.  These  allowances  were  the 
basis  of  A  Daily  Food  Guide,  prepared  by 
the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 
Included  in  the  guide  are  four  food 
groups:  Milk,  meat,  vegetable-fruit, 
and  bread-cereal.  By  using  the  sug- 
gested amounts  of  foods  from  the  four 
groups,  you  can  plan  adequate  diets 
without  much  knowledge  of  nutrition. 
Knowing  something  about  the  reasons 
for  individual  needs  and  the  contribu- 
tions of  various  foods  makes  the  job 
easier  and  the  reasons  for  planning 
more  compelling. 

Formation  of  tissue  in  the  child, 
pregnant  woman,  or  convalescent  re- 
quires only  a  small  quantity  of  food 
beyond  that  needed  to  supply  energy. 
The  main  difference  for  them  is  in  die 
proportion  of  various  nutrients.  The 
nursing  mother  also  has  a  special  need 
for  the  building  nutrients,  as  the  baby 
is  growing  rapidly  in  the  first  year. 
Protein  is  the  class  of  organic  com- 
pounds present  in  the  largest  amount 
in  the  animal  body,  and  it  is  synthe- 
sized from  amino  acids,  which  are 
supplied  by  dietary  proteins  from  plant 


Dr.  Harvye  Lewis  is  Professor  of  Food  and 
Nutrition  at  the  School  of  Home  Economics,  Loui- 
siana State  University,  Baton  Rouge. 


and  animal  sources.  The  other  build- 
ing materials  are  inorganic  elements, 
those  present  in  bone  being  needed  in 
the  largest  amounts. 

Baby  and  Mother.  Beginning  with 
conception,  food  needs  for  the  baby 
and  mother  are  inseparable.  Some- 
times a  young  or  adolescent  mother  is 
still  completing  the  laying  down  of 
her  own  body  tissues.  Pregnancy  is  a 
physiological  stress  for  the  healthy, 
well  nourished  woman,  and  an  even 
greater  hazard  for  the  older  woman 
whose  body  stores  have  been  depleted 
by  numerous  pregnancies.  The  out- 
come of  pregnancy  is  often  a  healthy 
baby,  regardless  of  the  lack  of  atten- 
tion paid  to  the  mother's  diet,  yet 
considerable  evidence  indicates  there 
are  benefits  from  an  adequate  diet 
during  this  time.  The  mother's  health 
may  be  undermined  by  depletion  of 
her  body  stores. 

During  pregnancy,  there  are  hor- 
mone changes,  increased  fluid  reten- 
tion, increased  basal  metabolism,  in- 
creased absorption  of  certain  nutrients, 
and  changes  in  the  digestive  system. 
Because  of  these  changes,  one  should 
not  assume  that  the  needs  during  a 
pregnancy  are  a  sum  of  the  require- 
ments for  the  nonpregnant  woman 
plus  those  of  the  developing  fetus,  yet 
it  appears  reasonable  to  expect  the 
mother  to  need  more  of  some  nutrients. 
The  Recommended  Dietary  Allowances  in 
the  1968  revision  lists  the  amounts  of 
calories  and  nutrients  above  those  for 
the  nonpregnant  young  woman. 

The  recommended  allowance  of  an 
additional  200  calories  during  the 
latter  half  of  pregnancy  is  an  approxi- 
mation and  is  not  right  for  all  women. 
Whether  the  woman  was  underweight 
or  overweight  at  the  start  of  pregnancy, 
her  height  and  activities  all  affect  her 
energy  need.  The  increase  in  basal 
metabolism  may  be  offset  by  the 
decrease  in  activities  during  the  last 
months.  Weight  gain  should  be  regular 
throughout  a  pregnancy  and  should 
total  22  to  26  pounds  for  most  women. 

The  National  Research  Council  rec- 
ommends that  the  consumption  of  pro- 
tein, calcium,  phosphorus,  and  folic 


acid  be  increased  significantly  during 
pregnancy.  Vitamin  D,  which  is  not 
included  in  the  normal  allowances  of 
adults,  is  added  because  of  its  relation 
to  mineral  absorption  and  utilization. 
The  additional  protein  amounts  to 
10  grams  per  day,  which  may  be 
furnished  by  adding  1 ){  cups  of  milk. 
The  milk  also  takes  care  of  the  recom- 
mended additional  0.4  gram  calcium 
and  contributes  other  nutrients. 

Iron  needs  for  women  are  being 
studied  at  present,  as  there  is  evidence 
that  many  females  have  borderline  or 
poor  reserves.  The  iron  needs  of  the 
developing  fetus  may  cause  iron  de- 
ficiency anemia  during  or  following 
pregnancy.  On  the  other  side  of  the 
picture,  there  is  a  saving  of  body  iron 
by  cessation  of  menstruation  and  in- 
creased absorption  of  dietary  iron. 

The  present  recommendation  for 
all  women  during  the  childbearing 
period  is  18  milligrams  per  day.  For 
most  women  this  should  be  sufficient 
during  pregnancy.  In  order  to  provide 
18  milligrams  of  iron,  it  is  necessary 
to  include  meat,  generous  amounts  of 
the  green  vegetables,  and  enriched  or 
whole-grain  cereals.  Liver  is  the  most 
potent  food  source  of  iron  and  supplies 
other  nutrients  as  well.  A  diet  which 
includes  two  servings  of  meat,  poultry, 
or  fish,  one  egg,  two  green  vegetables, 
two  other  vegetables,  four  slices  of 
bread,  one  cup  of  breakfast  cereal, 
and  one  or  more  fruits  will  supply 
enough  iron  without  running  up  the 
calories.  To  this  should  be  added 
3  cups  of  milk  and  other  foods  to  take 
care  of  the  energy  need. 

Generous  use  of  green  vegetables  to 
supply  iron  will  more  than  supply  the 
additional  amounts  of  vitamins  A,  C, 
and  folic  acid  recommended  for  the 
pregnant  woman.  If  the  extra  calories 
are  furnished  by  enriched  cereals, 
milk,  and  vegetables,  the  increased 
allowances  for  the  B  complex  for  the 
pregnant  woman  are  readily  met. 
Vitamin  D  is  supplied  by  fortified 
milk  plus  small  amounts  of  margarine 
and  a  few  other  foods. 

The  main  difference  between  the 
pregnant  woman's  diet  and  that  of  her 

295 


husband  is  more  milk  and  stress  on 
iron-rich  foods.  He  may  have  no 
objection  to  eating  the  same  foods, 
making  some  adjustment  for  his  own 
calorie  needs.  The  increased  amounts 
of  nutrients  recommended  for  the 
pregnant  woman  may  be  furnished 
by  the  diet  without  vitamin  or  mineral 
supplements. 

Despite  improvements  in  infant 
formulae,  breast  feeding  is  still  strongly 
recommended.  One  explanation  of  the 
reason  infants  thrive  better  on  human 
milk  is  that  it  promotes  the  growth  of 
favorable  intestinal  bacteria  which 
stop  the  growth  of  less  desirable  ones. 
Some  pediatricians  advocate  breast 
feeding  as  a  foolproof  method  rather 
than  because  of  superior  nutritional 
qualities.  Another  favorable  aspect  is 
the  close  mother-child  relationship. 

For  many  mothers  the  need  for  more 
food  during  nursing  may  be  achieved 
by  relaxing  the  restrictions  normally 
necessary  for  weight  control.  Approxi- 
mately 1,000  calories  beyond  the  usual 
diet  before  pregnancy  is  needed  for  an 
average  milk  yield.  At  this  time  a 
mother's  energy  needs  for  activities 
will  probably  be  higher  as  she  takes  on 
the  responsibilities  of  a  baby  and 
resumes  her  household  chores. 

The  main  increases  in  the  nutrient 
allowances  during  nursing  are  the 
addition  of  20  grams  of  protein  and 
3,000  International  Units  of  vitamin 
A.  Minerals  and  other  vitamins  are 
the  same  or  slightly  higher  than  the 
amounts  recommended  during  preg- 
nancy. Folic  acid  and  vitamin  B12 
allowances  are  lower  than  during  a 
pregnancy.  One  pint  of  milk  and  one 
egg  added  to  the  diet  which  was 
adequate  before  pregnancy  will  fur- 
nish all  the  protein  and  almost  half  of 
the  additional  vitamin  A.  Using  milk 
as  the  source  of  the  extra  protein  con- 
tributes to  the  mother's  fluid  need 
during  nursing.  Continued  emphasis 
on  the  green  vegetables,  recommended 
during  pregnancy,  will  supply  the  rest 
of  the  vitamin  A,  iron,  and  other 
minerals  and  vitamins. 

The  newborn  baby  needs  higher 
levels  of  all  nutrients  in  relation  to  size 

296 


as  compared  with  all  other  ages.  He 
needs  these  materials  for  rapid  growth 
and  because  of  a  higher  metabolic  rate. 
The  premature  or  low-birth-weight  in- 
fant may  have  insufficient  body  stores 
of  some  nutrients,  along  with  decreased 
ability  to  absorb  fat  and  fat-soluble 
vitamins;  thus  feeding  problems  are 
compounded.  Babies  will  vary  in  en- 
ergy requirements  because  of  differ- 
ences in  size  and  in  activities.  A  baby 
that  cries  a  lot  may  double  his  energy 
need.  In  relation  to  body  weight,  the 
infant's  needs  for  both  energy  and 
protein  decrease  rapidly  during  the 
first  year. 

Successful  use  of  cow's  milk  in  feed- 
ing infants  involves  meeting  nutritional 
requirements  of  the  child,  avoiding 
digestive  difficulties,  and  preventing 
infection.  Cleanliness  in  handling  all 
the  equipment  and  heat  treatment  of 
the  milk  will  lower  the  chances  of  in- 
fection. Pasteurization  and  sterilization 
of  the  milk  also  cause  the  formation  of 
small  curds,  which  are  more  digestible. 

Cow's  milk  is  richer  in  protein,  com- 
parable in  fat,  and  lower  in  sugar  than 
human  milk.  Except  for  vitamins  C, 
D,  and  niacin,  it  contains  more  vita- 
mins and  minerals.  Babies  may  tolerate 
milk  from  the  carton;  however,  it  is 
usually  modified.  Whole  milk  is  diluted 
with  water  to  lower  protein  and  min- 
erals, and  sugar  is  added  to  bring  the 
calorie  level  back  to  that  of  human 
milk.  Evaporated  milk  has  largely  re- 
placed fresh  milk  in  infant  feeding. 
A  common  modification  is  3  ounces 
evaporated  milk,  7  ounces  water,  and 
%  ounce  cane  sugar. 

As  the  sterilization  process  destroys 
ascorbic  acid  (vitamin  C)  in  milk,  the 
artificially  fed  infant  should  be  given 
a  supplement  of  35  milligrams  daily 
beginning  during  the  first  few  weeks. 
Infantile  scurvy  is  the  only  classic  de- 
ficiency disease  which  has  not  been 
virtually  wiped  out  in  the  United 
States.  If  vitamin  D  has  not  been 
added  to  the  milk  during  processing, 
the  baby  should  be  given  400  Inter- 
national Units  per  day. 

Full-term  infants  with  nonanemic 
mothers  have  reserves  of  iron  which 


Foods  supplying  iron  are  usually  first  given  to 
infants  at  two  or  three   months  of  age. 


should  last  about  6  months.  During 
the  first  2  or  3  months,  a  food  high  in 
iron  is  gradually  introduced.  Then 
more  solid  foods  are  added,  and  by 
the  time  that  he  is  6  months  old  the 
baby  should  be  eating  cooked  cereals, 
strained  fruits,  strained  vegetables,  egg 
yolk,  and  homogenized  meat.  These 
foods  may  be  cooked  along  with  those 
prepared  for  the  family,  and  then 
strained;  or  they  may  be  purchased 
in  small  containers  ready  for  use. 

A  baby  gains  in  weight  and  length 
according  to  his  own  pattern,  and 
failure  to  make  a  steady  gain  indicates 
something  is  wrong.  As  the  child 
grows  older,  the  calories  and  nutrients 
needed  in  relation  to  size  decrease. 
Toward  the  end  of  the  first  year,  al- 
though the  age  may  not  be  the  same 
for  all,  as  growth  slows  down  so  does 
the  baby's  enthusiasm  for  food.  Weight 
gain  during  the  second  year  amounts 
to  about  a  third  that  of  the  first  year, 
and  is  slower  between  ages  2  and  6 
years  than  at  any  dme  until  after 
puberty  is  reached. 

The  Growing  Child.  Now  that  the 
baby  can  chew,  it  is  no  longer  neces- 
sary to  spoon  strained  or  mashed 
vegetables  into  the  little  mouth.  His 


hands  are  useful  in  putting  many 
things  in  his  mouth,  including  some 
food.  As  the  child  gives  up  baby  foods 
and  experiments  with  the  new  tex- 
tures and  flavors  of  the  family  meals, 
he  may  reject  many  items.  This  show 
of  independence,  together  with  a 
smaller  appetite,  may  lead  to  plead- 
ing, bribing,  scolding,  and  threatening 
by  the  parents.  Meals  become  a  battle, 
and  it  isn't  always  the  larger  person 
who  wins.  The  child  may  capitalize 
on  being  the  center  of  attention  and 
not  eat  anything.  This  frightens  the 
mother,  and  she  may  cater  to  his 
wishes,  thus  starting  the  pattern  of 
strong  likes  and  dislikes  which  may 
complicate  his  life  for  years  to  come. 

When  a  child  refuses  to  eat,  food 
should  be  offered  without  comments 
about  the  desirability  of  eating.  After 
a  reasonable  length  of  time — no  longer 
than  20  minutes — the  plate  is  removed, 
and  nothing  is  offered  or  allowed  until 
the  next  meal.  Even  a  strong-willed 
child  will  capitulate  by  the  third  day. 

Because  of  the  small  appetite  char- 
acteristic of  a  young  child,  the  quality 
of  the  diet  becomes  even  more  im- 
portant; a  small  amount  of  food  must 
now  supply  the  materials  for  tissue 
building.  He  can't  afford  to  fill  his 
small  capacity  with  foods  that  supply- 
only  energy,  as  soft  drinks  and  candy, 
etc.  Avoiding  such  fillers  is  a  challenge 
to  the  mother,  since  there  are  tempta- 
tions at  the  grocery  store,  drug  store, 
grandmother's  or  the  neighbors',  and 
the  ice  cream  truck  that  invades  the 
neighborhood. 

Amounts  of  nutrients  needed  by  a 
preschool  child  are  similar  to  those 
for  a  baby,  although  slightly  higher. 

With  increasing  size,  the  child  re- 
quires more  food;  yet  in  relation  to 
body  size,  there  is  a  continued  de- 
crease in  food  needs  except  during 
the  adolescent  growth  spurt.  A  list 
of  foods  which  almost  meet  the 
recommended  allowances  for  the  vari- 
ous nutrients  for  a  preschool  child 
follows.  Additional  food  to  raise  the 
calorie  value  should  take  care  of  the 
remainder  of  the  nutrients,  except  for 
vitamin  D. 

297 


Vitamin  D  milk  is  the  only  food 
source  of  this  vitamin,  and  the  usual 
fortification  is  400  International  Units 
per  quart.  If  the  child  drinks  only  1 
pint  of  milk,  it  may  be  necessary  to 
supply  200  International  Units  of 
vitamin  D  by  a  concentrated  source. 
Preparations  of  vitamins  should  be 
used  with  care,  for  there  are  dangers 
in  consuming  too  much  of  the  fat- 
soluble  ones:  A,  D,  E,  and  K. 


to  consume  what  is  put  before  them. 
Even  though  learning  to  handle  the 
spoons,  forks,  glasses,  liquids,  crackers, 
etc.,  may  involve  many  spills  and 
crumbs,  children  enjoy  company  at 
meals.  Sometimes  the  little  ones  seem 
to  enjoy  the  meals  in  the  nursery 
school  more  than  those  at  home. 

The  rest  of  the  diet  should  not  be 
"empty  calories."  Sweets,  especially 
sticky  candies,  promote  the  growth  of 


>    -4 

Learning  to  eat  new  or  different  foods  is  part  of  the  preschool  prograr 


Diet  for  a  preschool  child  should 
include:  1  pint  of  vitamin  D  milk;  2 
ounces  of  lean  meat,  fish,  or  poultry; 
%  cup  orange  juice  or  some  source  of 
vitamin  C;  1  egg;  2  slices  enriched 
bread  or  other  cereal;  %  cup  cooked 
yellow  or  green  leafy  vegetable. 

Amounts  of  food  listed  will  not 
furnish  enough  daily  food  for  a  child, 
but  there  are  numerous  possibilities 
for  supplements.  The  servings  may  be 
larger  while  other  fruits,  vegetables, 
butter  or  margarine,  cereals,  and 
simple  desserts  are  suitable.  Glasses 
that  fit  their  small  hands  and  items 
that  are  easily  transported  from  dish 
to  mouth  encourage  young  children 

298 


micro-organisms  which  cause  dental 
cavities.  In  preparation  for  the  coming 
years  when  weight  control  is  necessary, 
the  child  needs  to  learn  to  eat  vege- 
tables and  fruits.  The  large  amount  of 
water  in  these  foods  causes  them  to 
have  lower  calorie  values  than  meat, 
desserts,  and  bread. 

Preadolescents.  In  preadolescence,  a 
child  needs  larger  amounts  of  the  same 
kinds  of  food  that  the  younger  child 
eats.  Going  to  school  makes  it  neces- 
sary for  him  to  have  a  routine  schedule 
for  meals.  The  preschool  child  who  is 
not  hungry  when  he  wakes  up  may 
play  for  a  while  before  breakfast.  This 
behavior  pattern  doesn't  fit  in  with 


carpools,  buses,  and  the  school  bell.  A 
child  who  comes  to  school  without 
breakfast  is  at  a  big  disadvantage  in 
making  the  most  of  his  intellectual 
powers.  Although  the  candy  and  soft 
drinks  available  in  some  schools  can 
allay  the  child's  hunger,  they  may 
cause  him  to  have  very  little  appetite 
at  lunchtime. 

It  is  not  imperative  that  a  child 
consume  the  traditional  bacon,  eggs, 
and  toast  breakfast.  Any  food  which 
may  be  prepared  quickly  and  con- 
sumed easily  is  suitable.  Many  persons 
enjoy  a  glass  of  fruit  juice  first.  If 
this  isn't  well  accepted,  the  child  may 
consume  a  source  of  vitamin  C  later  in 
the  day.  Fats  and  proteins  are  digested 
more  slowly  than  carbohydrates,  thus 
delaying  the  empty  feeling  that  soon 
follows  a  high  carbohydrate  meal. 
Eggs  are  economical  and  easily  pre- 
pared sources  of  protein  and  iron; 
however,  they  are  not  irreplaceable  in 
the  child's  diet. 

The  elementary  school  child  may 
consume  1  cup  (%  pint)  of  milk  three 
times  a  day.  As  his  appetite  dictates, 
the  amounts  of  meat,  bread,  fruit,  and 
vegetables  are  increased.  During  these 
formative  years  the  youngster  should 
be  encouraged  to  eat  many  different 
foods.  Along  with  promoting  good 
health,  the  School  Lunch  Program  has 
contributed  to  teaching  children  good 
eating  habits.  Regulations  under  the 
National  School  Lunch  Act  of  1946 
specify  that  the  Type  A  lunch  contain, 
as  a  minimum,  1  cup  of  whole  milk, 
2  ounces  of  protein-rich  food,  three- 
fourths  cup  of  two  or  more  vegetables 
or  fruits  or  both,  one  slice  of  whole- 
grain  or  enriched  bread  or  its  equiva- 
lent, and  2  teaspoons  of  butter  or  of 
fortified  margarine. 

Adolescents.  Adolescence  is  a  period 
of  rapid  growth  and  of  maturation, 
which  may  occur  between  the  ages 
10  and  20  years.  On  the  average,  girls 
reach  this  stage  of  development  about 
2  years  earlier  than  boys.  There  is 
evidence  that  good  nutrition,  which 
promotes  growth  throughout  child- 
hood, is  related  to  maturing  early.  At 
the  same  time  that  the  adolescent  has 


Fruit  juice,  milk,  and  ready-to-eat  cereal  make 
a  breakfast  for  the  elementary  school  child 
that  is  quickly  prepared  and  easily  consumed. 


accelerated  nutritional  needs,  there 
are  many  psychological  and  social 
pressures.  At  this  age  any  deviation 
from  the  average  in  state  of  develop- 
ment may  be  upsetting.  The  tallest 
member  of  the  seventh  grade  class, 
usually  a  girl,  is  as  self  conscious  as  the 
smallest  boy. 

During  the  growth  spurt  the  forma- 
tion of  muscles,  of  bone,  and  blood 
requires  ample  supplies  of  the  building 
materials:  protein,  calcium,  and  iron. 
A  slight  rise  in  basal  metabolism  and 
the  constant  activities  of  adolescents 
are  also  responsible  for  greater  food 
consumption  than  in  earlier  and  later 
periods  of  life.  Most  teenagers  are 
forever  hungry,  and  mothers  are  hard 
pressed  to  keep  enough  food  on  hand. 
This  is  an  opportune  time  to  introduce 
new  foods  and  to  overcome  some  of  the 

299 


Maryland  elementary  students  with  their  school  lunch.  USDA  administers  the  National  School 
Lunch  Program,  which  helps  teach  children  good  eating  habits. 


dislikes  the  child  developed  when  his 
appetite  was  more  finicky.  Along  with 
the  opportunity  for  improving  food 
habits,  however,  is  the  possibility  of 
developing  worse  ones. 

Following  the  pattern  suggested  for 
younger  children,  the  adolescent  boy 
might  eat:  4  cups  of  milk;  6  ounces 
of  meat;  ){  to  1  cup  of  orange  juice; 
4  slices  of  bread;  %  cup  of  a  green 
or  yellow  vegetable;  enriched  cereals 
and   bread;   fruits  and   vegetables. 

The  foods  listed  in  amounts  will 
take  care  of  the  boy's  need  for  protein, 
minerals,  and  vitamins,  provided  a 
green  leafy  vegetable  or  several  less 
potent  sources  of  iron  are  eaten.  The 
adolescent  girl  may  drink  only  3  cups 
of  milk,  but  her  need  for  iron  is  even 
more  critical  after  she  begins  men- 
struating. Meat,  fish,  poultry,  enriched 
bread  and  cereals,  green  leafy  vege- 
tables, dried  fruits,  and  egg  yolk  are 
the  main  sources  of  iron.  Ice  cream, 
peanut  butter,  hamburgers,  cookies, 
and  other  popular  foods  may  complete 
the  rest  of  the  diet.  There  is  no  ad- 

300 


vantage  in  consuming  more  than  a 
quart  of  milk  daily.  Moreover,  the 
girl  who  is  restricting  her  calorie  intake 
should  leave  off  the  extra  serving 
rather  than  the  foods  supplying  the 
building  nutrients. 

Many  adults  look  back  on  adoles- 
cence with  less  than  fond  memories 
because  physical  and  emotional  prob- 
lems, some  related  to  nutrition,  are 
common  at  this  time.  Overweight, 
undernutrition,  anemia,  and  acne 
stand  out  among  the  physical  defects 
which  may  bring  on  psychological 
problems.  As  if  being  different  from 
his  peers  is  not  serious  enough,  the 
overweight  child  has  the  prospect  of 
becoming  an  overweight  adult,  a 
situation  affecting  health  as  well  as 
looks.  Whether  being  overweight  is 
caused  by  too  much  food  or  too  little 
activity,  the  solution  is  a  change  in 
one  or  both  to  achieve  energy  balance. 

The  overweight  adolescent  needs 
the  same  kinds  of  food  as  the  under- 
weight or  normal  weight  person,  except 
in  smaller  amounts.  Size  and  number 


of  servings  of  even  the  meats,  breads, 
vegetables,  and  milk  have  to  be  con- 
trolled. Rich  desserts  and  many  of 
the  usual  snack  foods  may  be  replaced 
with  fresh  fruits,  tomatoes,  carrot 
strips,  celery,  and  the  like.  Instead  of  a 
"crash  diet"  to  take  off  pounds  im- 
mediately, the  goal  is  developing  eat- 
ing habits  which  one  can  live  with 
indefinitely.  But  even  these  habits  re- 
quire downward  revision  with   time. 

Underweight  adolescents  may  or 
may  not  be  satisfied  with  their  state. 
Girls  often  desire  to  look  like  fashion 
models  whereas  boys  would  like  to  be 
athletic  in  appearance  at  least.  Infec- 
tions are  more  frequent  among  under- 
weight persons.  Anemia  may  occur 
in  both  sexes  at  this  age,  although  the 
monthly  blood  loss  places  the  girl  in 
the  more  dangerous  position.  Meats, 
eggs,  enriched  breads,  the  green  vege- 
tables, and  other  sources  of  iron  are 
dietary  insurance  against  nutritional 
anemia,  which  is  often  responsible  for 
a  poor  appetite  and  lack  of  weight 
gain.  Acne  is  a  condition  which  is 
related  to  hormone  changes — rather 
than  diet,  and  adolescents  should  not 
be  promised  that  a  good  diet  will 
clear  up  their  skin  problems. 

As  these  boys  and  girls  acquire  more 
independence  and  eat  away  from  the 
home,  their  diets  have  less  supervision. 
Snacking  between  meals  is  a  way  of 
life  at  this  age.  Unfortunately,  how- 
ever, the  snack  foods  are  often  those 
high  in  fat  and  sugar,  furnishing  only 
energy.  Even  the  beanpole  adolescent 
may  develop  habits  which  make  weight 
control  difficult  in  later  years. 

Adults.  During  the  later  teens  and 
early  twenties,  growth  ends  and  ma- 
turity is  reached,  thus  reducing  the 
need  for  the  building  materials.  Basal 
metabolism  is  gradually  declining,  and 
usually  physical  activities  slow  down. 
As  a  person  advances  in  his  profession, 
his  life  normally  becomes  more  seden- 
tary. The  homemaker  becomes  more 
skilled  with  practice,  and  laborsaving 
appliances  may  reduce  her  energy 
need  even  further.  As  was  true  for  the 
growing  child,  each  adult  has  an 
individual  requirement  for  nutrients 


and  calories  related  to  age,  size,  sex, 
activity,  and  state  of  health.  Slight 
excesses  of  nutrients  are  not  considered 
harmful;  however,  the  calorie  intake 
must  be  adjusted  to  avoid  becoming 
overweight. 

Compared  with  a  growing  person, 
an  adult  has  a  lower  need  for  protein 
and  calcium — so  milk  consumption 
may  be  reduced  to  2  cups  a  day.  Men 
usually  consume  adequate  amounts  of 
iron  without  making  an  effort;  while 
women  must  be  sure  to  consume  rich 
sources  of  iron  until  after  menopause. 
A  dietary  source  of  vitamin  D  is  not 
considered  necessary  for  adults,  except 
for  pregnant  and  nursing  women.  The 
amount  consumed  by  drinking  milk 
with  vitamin  D  added  is  considered 
safe.  The  recommended  allowances  of 
vitamins  A  and  C  are  about  the  same 
as  for  the  younger  person,  but  these 
are  easily  furnished  by  a  serving  of 
green  or  yellow  vegetable  and  a  serving 
of  citrus  fruit  or  tomatoes.  Along  with 
the  lower  energy  need  there  is  a  lower- 
ing of  the  recommendations  for  the 
B  vitamins. 

The  main  nutritional  problem  of 
many  adults  is  weight  control.  Gen- 
erally, a  person  should  maintain  his 
normal  weight  at  age  25  for  the  rest 
of  his  life.  As  one  adds  years  there  is  a 
need  to  subtract  calories.  At  the  same 
time  protein,  minerals,  and  vitamins 
are  still  very  necessary.  Foods  high  in 
fat — pastries,  rich  cakes,  salad  dress- 
ings, gravies,  and  nuts — supply  small 
amounts  of  nutrients  in  proportion  to 
their  energy  values.  Frying  adds  fat 
to  the  food  no  matter  how  well  it  is 
drained  on  absorbent  paper.  Sugar, 
candies,  sirups,  jellies,  soft  drinks, 
and  the  alcoholic  beverages  are  also 
sources  of  "empty  calories."  An  adult 
has  some  choice  as  to  which  foods  to 
leave  out.  Certain  foods — meats,  milk, 
fruits,  vegetables,  and  cereals  or 
bread — are  needed  for  nutrients  and 
calorie  value.  Crash  diets  for  weight 
reduction  are  dangerous  and  often 
fail  to  accomplish  the  desired  results. 

Oldsters.  Aging  is  continuous  from 
conception  on,  and  it  is  as  hard  to 
specify   which    birthday    makes   one 

301 


A  meal  like  this  supplies  nutrients  and  calorie  value  needed  by  adults. 


302 


aged  as  to  predict  the  exact  year  that 
puberty  occurs.  Calendar  and  physio- 
logical age  are  not  the  same.  We  have 
all  known  folks  active  in  their  eighties 
and  others  who  became  feeble  much 
earlier.  During  aging  there  are  losses 
in  cell  mass  and  perhaps  impairment 
of  the  remaining  cells  so  that  organ 
systems  function  less  efficiently.  This 
may  be  observed  in  changes  in  the 
eyes,  ears,  digestive  system,  and  kid- 
ney. The  oldster  also  has  the  accumu- 
lated insults  from  accidents,  infection, 
and  environmental  factors,  including 
food.  Nutrients  supplied  to  the  cells 
throughout  the  years  affect  the  aging 
process  and  resistance  to  disease. 

One  change  that  definitely  accom- 
panies the  aging  process  is  a  decreased 
energy  need.  Basal  metabolism  and, 
usually,  activities  are  slowing  down. 
On  the  average,  men  and  women  in 
the  55-  to  75-year  span  need  300  to 
400  calories  less  per  day  than  they 
did  during  the  35-  to  55-year  period. 
The  amounts  of  the  B-complex  vita- 
mins are  proportionately  lowered  too. 
There  is  no  evidence  that  cellular 
changes  affect  the  need  for  nutrients; 
so  the  recommendations  for  protein, 
calcium,  vitamins  A,  C,  and  E  are 
the  same  as  for  the  younger  adult. 
After  menopause  a  woman's  iron  need 
is  no  higher  than  a  man's. 

Although  the  healthy  person  needs 
no  special  dietary  alterations  in  old 
age  except  for  fewer  calories,  a  num- 
ber of  ailments  do  affect  the  kind  and 
amount  of  food  needed.  Many  older 
people  need  to  do  more  than  control 
weight;  they  actually  need  to  reduce. 


Lack  of  teeth  or  poorly  fitting  den- 
tures affect  the  kinds  of  acceptable 
food.  Surveys  have  shown  that  oldsters 
often  substitute  bread  for  meat  and 
vegetables,  probably  because  of  the 
ease  in  chewing  as  well  as  the  expense. 
The  blender  is  useful  in  making  steak 
acceptable  to  a  person  without  teeth. 

Digestive  difficulties  and  constipa- 
tion are  common  and  may  cause  the 
elderly  person  to  reject  some  foods. 
For  chronic  conditions,  many  oldsters 
require  special  diets  which  become 
their  way  of  life.  Perhaps  research  will 
eventually  find  ways  of  controlling 
these  diseases  as  with  many  others. 
Even  now  some  deteriorative  changes 
may  be  alleviated  by  good  nutrition 
earlier  in  life. 

With  our  great  array  of  food,  ade- 
quate diets  for  all  of  us  at  any  age  are 
possible  without  great  effort.  A  per- 
son's individual  needs  may  be  fur- 
nished in  various  ways.  Foods  which 
supply  energy,  protein,  minerals,  and 
vitamins  are  available  in  the  gro- 
cery store,  the  school,  restaurant,  and 
elsewhere. 

Nutritious  food  tastes  good.  A  daily 
pattern  to  provide  the  nutrients  should 
be  as  habitual  as  dressing,  brushing 
teeth,  and  other  routine  activities. 
The  specific  items  are  dictated  by  the 
resources  and  time  available.  Meals 
served  at  home  may  be  purchased 
almost  ready  to  serve  or  they  may 
represent  hours  of  loving  preparation. 
Vitamin  pills  and  other  dietary  supple- 
ments are  usually  unnecessary.  Pro- 
motion of  good  health  by  eating  the 
right  foods  is  easy  and  pleasant. 


303 


Marjorie  B.  Washbon 
Gail  G.  Harrison 


Overweight 
and  What  It 
Takes  to 
Stay  Trim 


How  to  lose  weight,  preferably  without 
effort,  receives  constant  attention  in 
the  press  and  conversation.  Not  all  of 
this  information  is  wrong;  but  much 
is  a  mixture  of  fact,  half-truths,  and 
pure  imagination.  How  can  you  know 
what  to  believe,  especially  when  the 
information  is  often  presented  as  a 
"new,  scientific  discovery"?  After  all, 
science  has  progressed  to  voyages 
around  the  moon.  Yet  easy  ways  to 
lose  weight  are  still  elusive.  Unravel- 
ling the  mysteries  of  the  human  body 
is  proving  more  difficult  than  conquer- 
ing outer  space. 

An  easy  way  to  lose  weight  is  not 
yet  in  sight  nor  is  it  realistic  to  expect 
one.  There  has  been,  however,  gradual 
accumulation  of  knowledge  from  con- 
tinual experimentation,  some  of  which 
has  been  treated  in  popular  writings. 
The  purpose  of  this  chapter  is  to 
present  an  overview  of  what  we  know 
and  don't  know  about  the  causes  and 
correction  of  obesity. 

There  are  sound  health  reasons  for 
a  concern  about  weight  reduction  al- 
though, admittedly,  much  of  the 
current  interest  is  motivated  by  desire 
for  a  fashionable  figure.  Most  people 

304 


know  that  overweight  is  considered  a 
health  hazard,  particularly  in  relation 
to  diseases  of  the  heart  and  circulatory 
system.  Most  life  insurance  companies 
charge  higher  rates  to  the  grossly  over- 
weight just  as  they  do  for  other  high 
risk  categories — such  as  smokers  and 
the  accident-prone. 

The  connection  between  extreme 
overweight  and  several  diseases  is  well 
documented.  It  is  also  known  that  the 
greater  the  degree  of  obesity,  the 
greater  the  risk.  But  it  is  not  clear  just 
how  much  excess  weight — or  excess 
fat — constitutes  a  danger.  Neither  are 
we  sure  whether  the  primary  health 
risk  is  overweight  or  overfatness. 

Most  of  us  agree  there  is  little  to  say 
in  favor  of  overweight  and  most  of  us, 
too,  are  acquainted  with  some  of  the 
more  basic  facts  about  weight  reduc- 
tion. The  implications  of  these  facts 
are  less  well  understood. 

Just  about  everyone  knows,  for  ex- 
ample, that  you  accumulate  extra  fat 
by  taking  in  more  food  than  you  can 
use  up  in  energy  output  And,  con- 
versely, that  you  lose  body  fat  when 
you  eat  less  food  than  you  require  for 
your  energy  expenditure.  Most  people 
know,  also,  that  the  term  used  to 
measure  energy  is  calories.  Possibly 
no  word  in  die  English  language  is 
more  maligned.  We  count  calories; 
we  regret  them;  we  blame  them. 

But  scientifically  speaking,  calories 
are  simply  units  to  measure  energy, 
just  as  inches  or  miles  are  units  to 
measure  distance. 

We  need  food  energy.  Without  it, 
the  body  could  not  function.  But 
keeping  it  functioning  at  a  constant 
weight  requires  a  balance  between 
intake  and  outgo.  Many  factors  affect 
both  sides  of  this  energy  equation. 

We  all  use  energy  in  two  distinct 
ways:  (1)  to  maintain  those  basic 
processes  necessary  to  life,  including 
growth  and  (2)  to  accomplish  physical 

Marjorie  B.  Washbon  is  Professor  of  Human 
Nutrition  fi?  Food,  N.T.  State  College  of  Human 
Ecology,  Cornell  University,  Ithaca,  N.T. 

Gail  G.  Harrison  is  Extension  Associate,  De- 
partment of  Human  Nutrition  &  Food,  N.T.  State 
College  of  Human  Ecology,  Cornell  University. 


activity.  The  precise  amount  needed 
in  each  category  varies  greatly  from 
one  person  to  another. 

By  far  the  greatest  proportion  of 
our  calorie  need  is  accounted  for  by 
the  basic,  on-going  processes  of  life — 
the  work  needed  to  keep  the  heart 
beating,  the  lungs  breathing,  the 
kidneys  eliminating  waste  products, 
the  cells  of  the  body  repairing  them- 
selves, new  tissues  being  built  during 
growth,  and  production  of  heat  to 
keep  body  temperature  normal.  All 
of  these  processes  require  energy. 
The  energy  needed  to  maintain  them 
is  called  the  basal  metabolic  rate,  or 
the  BMR. 

Many  conditions  affect  the  BMR, 
and  thus  the  total  caloric  needs  of  a 
given  individual.  Among  these  are 
size,  the  body  composition,  age,  and 
hormonal  factors.  The  larger  person, 
with  a  greater  amount  of  muscle  and 
bone,  requires  more  energy  for  basic 
metabolic  demands  than  die  smaller 
person.  Age  is  another  influencing 
factor.  Basal  metabolic  rate  increases 
during  periods  of  growth  and  decreases 
gradually  throughout  adult  life. 

About  the  only  controllable  factor 
affecting  basal  metabolic  rate  is  the 
rare  situation  of  hormonal  imbalance. 
Occasionally  the  occurrence  of  thyroid 
insufficiency  will  slow  BMR  down.  In 
these  relatively  rare  and  easily  detected 
cases,  therapy  with  thyroid  hormone 
alleviates  the  condition.  More  often 
the  imbalance  in  the  energy  equation 
must  be  attacked  from  the  standpoint 
of  food  intake,  exercise,  or  both. 

Besides  the  BMR,  the  other  major 
factor  affecting  energy  needs  is  exer- 
cise. And  this  you  can  control.  An 
important  reason  for  the  increased 
incidence  of  overweight  today  is  the 
limited  physical  activity  that  everyday 
living  demands  of  most  of  us.  A  con- 
scious effort  to  increase  our  physical 
activity  deserves  more  attention  than 
it  has  had  in  the  past.  Even  a  few 
years  ago,  it  was  common  to  teach 
that  exercise  was  of  litde  or  no  value 
in  weight  control.  Unfortunately,  the 
erroneous  ideas  on  which  this  teaching 
was  based  still  persist. 


One  such  fallacy  is  the  notion  that 
exercise  automatically  increases  appe- 
tite and  thus  any  beneficial  effects  are 
canceled  out.  This  doesn't  have  to  be 
true,  especially  with  moderate  activ- 
ity. Actually,  more  data  are  available 
to  support  me  opposite  situation.  That 
is,  reducing  activity  to  a  low  level  may 
not  be  accompanied  by  less  eating. 

A  second  misconception  is  the  belief 
that  it  takes  a  lot  of  exercise — more 
than  most  people  will  do — to  use  sig- 
nificant amounts  of  energy. 

This  is  true  enough  if  you  are 
talking  about  the  short  term  of  a  few 
weeks.  But,  over  a  period  of  months 
or  years,  even  small  increases  in  exer- 
cise can  make  a  difference  in  how 
much  you  weigh,  providing  the  activ- 
ity becomes  a  daily  habit. 

Some  increase  in  exercise  is  espe- 
cially significant  for  many  older  folks 
and  others  whose  caloric  needs  are  low, 
when  keeping  extra  weight  off  may 
seem  almost  an  impossible  problem.  If 
such  persons  are  to  maintain  their 
weight,  the  choice  may  rest  between 
making  the  effort  to  get  some  regular 
exercise — or  continually  being  a  litde 
hungry. 

For  the  person  who  has  always  been 
overweight,  exercise  may  be  an  even 
more  complicated  problem.  The  over- 
weight teenager,  for  instance,  may  not 
be  proficient  in  sports  and  feel  self- 
conscious,  and  so  he  may  habitually 
underparticipate.  Thus,  lack  of  exer- 
cise is  not  only  contributing  to  his 
obesity;  it  is  also  a  result  of  his  obe- 
sity. A  vicious  circle  develops  that  is 
difficult  to  break.  Studies  have  also 
shown  that  the  obese  individual  often 
gets  less  physical  exercise  than  the 
person  of  normal  weight  even  when 
engaged  for  the  same  length  of  time  in 
the  same  sport.  This  is  simply  because 
he  moves  less. 

The  other  side  of  the  energy  equa- 
tion— the  energy  taken  in  as  calories 
from  food — is  equally  important.  The 
amount  of  food  we  eat  is  not  regulated 
solely  by  our  need  for  calories.  Would 
that  it  were!  We  humans  are  social 
beings,  and  often  we  eat  to  please  our 
hostess,  to  share  in  the  sociability,  to 

305 


relieve  frustration,  boredom,  or  loneli- 
ness, or  just  because  the  food  is  there — 
even  if  we  are  not  particularly  hungry ! 

We  also  adjust  our  food  intake  ac- 
cording to  the  expectations  of  society — 
and  those  expectations  aren't  always 
clear-cut  and  simple.  Definitions  of 
what's-good-to-do  may  contradict  one 
another,  creating  a  vague  feeling  of 
guilt.  For  instance,  the  ideal  of  the 
Clean  Plate  Club  is  still  with  us.  The 
Puritan  ethic  of  "waste  not,  want  not" 
is  part  of  our  culture.  Coupled  with  an 
abundance  of  food  available,  this  con- 
flicts with  the  ideal  of  a  slim  figure. 

Because  more  than  physical  need  is 
involved  in  controlling  the  amount 
we  eat,  many  of  us  fail  to  adequately 
adjust  our  intake  to  our  caloric  need. 

Much  remains  to  be  learned  before 
all  the  pieces  are  in  place  in  the  com- 
plicated puzzle  of  our  energy  balance. 
Emotional,  genetic,  and  metabolic 
factors  may  be  important  influences. 
Many  of  these  are  at  present  only 
notions  in  the  minds  of  researchers — as 
yet  a  long  way  from  being  of  practical 
value  to  the  person  who  wants  to  lose 
some  weight. 

Most  people  realize  there  is  some 
connection  between  heredity  and  body 
weight.  You  may  have  observed  that 
overweight  tends  to  run  in  families, 
but  again  the  issue  is  not  simple. 

We  know  definitely  that  the  body 
build — the  general  size  and  shape  of 
the  body,  including  bony  structure 
and  musculature  as  well  as  the  fat 
distribution — is  inherited.  Bony  struc- 
ture cannot  be  changed,  and  muscle 
development  can  be  changed  only 
within  rather  narrow  limits.  It  is  a 
fact  that  some  of  us  are  tall,  large- 
boned,  and  heavy.  Others  are  long 
and  lean.  Still  others  are  short,  round, 
and  stocky.  Normal  variations  in  body 
build  are  the  subject  of  a  whole 
science,  called  somatotyping.  There 
are  three  basic  somatotypes  or  ex- 
tremes of  body  build:  ectomorphy, 
mesomorphy,   and  endomorphy. 

The  ectomorphic  individual  has  a 
long,  lean  body  build.  The  skeletal 
structure  is  light  and  muscle  develop- 
ment is   usually  small.    Ectomorphs 

306 


are  seldom  overweight,  but  may  have 
the  opposite  problem  of  being  too 
thin.  They  often  seem  to  be  able  to 
eat  relatively  large  amounts  of  food 
without  gaining  weight. 

The  mesomorphic  person  has  a 
large,  heavy  frame  and  heavy  muscle 
development.  The  "ideal"  football 
player  type  of  a  person  with  broad 
shoulders  and  lots  of  muscle  could  be 
classified  as  mesomorphic.  The  scales 
may  read  high  for  the  mesomorph 
because  of  heavy  bone  and  muscle 
structure,  even  if  he  is  not  too  fat. 

The  endomorphic  person  typically 
has  soft,  round  body  contours  and  is 
well  covered  with  body  fat.  Endo- 
morphs  often  have  trouble  maintaining 
reasonable  weight. 

Most  of  us  are  a  combination  of  two 
of  these  types.  An  extreme  ectomorph, 
endomorph,  or  mesomorph  is  really 
quite  rare.  But  most  people  do  exhibit 
one  of  these  particular  body  builds 
predominantly. 

What  does  all  of  this  mean  for  the 
person  who  wants  to  lose  weight?  It 
means  that  overweight  and  overfat- 
ness  may  not  be  the  same  thing.  A 
person  with  a  large  bony  frame  and 
heavy  musculature  is  not  as  fat  as  a 
person  of  the  same  height  and  weight 
who  has  a  small  skeleton  and  less 
muscle  development. 

Understanding  the  difference  be- 
tween overweight  and  overfatness  is 

THREE  EXTREMES  OF  BODY  BUILD 


Ectomorph 


Mesomorph 


Endomorph 


important  because  it  is  the  basis  for 
setting  realistic  goals  for  weight  reduc- 
tion. The  amount  of  fat  on  the  body 
can  be  changed,  but  the  basic  body 
build  cannot.  Nor  can  you  expect  to 
eliminate  localized  fat  deposits,  such 
as  heavy  thighs  on  an  otherwise  non- 
obese  person.  Fat  distribution  of  this 
type  cannot  be  selectively  controlled 
by  diet  or  exercise. 

Less  well  established  is  whether 
heredity  affects  total  fatness  as  well  as 
bone,  muscle  structure,  and  fat  dis- 
tribution. Research  relating  the  num- 
ber and  size  of  fat  cells  in  the  body  to 
obesity  may  some  day  help  clarify  the 
mystery  of  heredity  and  obesity.  But 
what  we  do  know  about  heredity  and 
body  build  is  sufficient  to  help  us 
realize  that  what  is  a  realistic  goal  for 
one  person  may  not  be  realistic  for 
the  next.  And  as  knowledge  about  the 
relation  of  heredity  to  body  fatness 
increases,  it  may  be  more  and  more 
possible  to  identify  those  individuals 
who  are  predisposed  to  easy  weight 
gain  and  to  help  them  prevent  obesity 
in  the  first  place,  rather  than  limiting 
our  attacks  on  the  problem  to  helping 
the  person  who  is  already  too  fat. 

It  is  easy  to  see  that  some  people 
will,  because  of  their  basic  body  build, 
have  more  trouble  maintaining  reason- 
able weight  than  others.  Obesity  is  a 
physical  problem,  and  it  may  be  a 
psychological  one  as  well ;  but  it  should 
not  be  made  a  moral  issue.  It  is  highly 
unfair  to  classify  every  individual  who 
has  a  weight  problem  as  a  weak-willed 
glutton,  as  our  society  too  often  does. 

Since  people  differ  so  much  in  their 
inherited  body  builds,  how  can  you 
know  what  is  the  best  weight  for  you? 
The  most  widely  used  standards  are 
height-weight  tables.  While  these  have 
some  valid  uses,  an  honest  look  in  a 
full-length  mirror  will  probably  be  as 
reliable  an  indicator  as  any  chart  in 
telling  you  whether  or  not  you  are 
too  fat. 

The  limitations  of  some  of  the  charts 
may  be  clearer  if  we  discuss  the  origins 
of  a  few  in  current  use  and  the  differ- 
ences among  them.  There  are  two 
types  of  charts  in  general  use  today: 


those  which  report  the  average  weights 
of  a  large  number  of  people,  and  those 
which  recommend  desirable  weights. 

In  1959,  average  weights  of  a  large, 
insured  adult  population  were  pub- 
lished by  the  Society  of  Actuaries. 
These  tables  of  average  weights  have 
been  widely  used  since.  Their  relia- 
bility is  limited  because  only  insured 
individuals  were  considered  and  be- 
cause measuring  techniques  were  not 
standardized.  But  these  tables  do  show 
that  both  men  and  women  tend,  on 
the  average,  to  gain  some  weight  as 
they  get  older. 

Back  in  1960,  the  Metropolitan  Life 
Insurance  Company  published  the 
widely-used  "Tables  of  Desirable 
Weight,"  based  upon  data  from  the 
Society  of  Actuaries.  These  desirable 
weights  were  substantially  lower  than 
the  previously  published  "average" 
weights.  They  were  designed  to  be 
applied  to  adults  25  years  of  age  and 
older.  The  desirable  weights  were 
based  on  the  fact  that,  in  the  insured 
population,  the  person  who  main- 
tained what  he  weighed  at  age  25  had 
the  lowest  mortality  risk.  No  change, 
therefore,  was  made  for  age,  but 
weight  ranges  were  given  and  allow- 
ance was  made  for  small,  medium,  and 
large  body  frames.  While  this  was  a 
step  in  the  right  direction,  no  indica- 
tion was  given  as  to  how  one  might 
decide  what  type  of  body  frame  he  had. 

Another  table  of  desirable  weights 
in  current  use  is  based  upon  data  on 
heights  and  weights  of  individuals  20 
to  30  years  old,  as  obtained  by  the 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture.  The 
USDA  table  assumes  that  the  weight 
that  is  desirable  in  your  mid-twenties 
is  the  best  weight  for  later  years,  too. 

To  use  the  table,  first  find  in  the 
left-hand  column  your  height,  without 
shoes.  If  you  have  a  small  frame,  your 
weight  should  probably  be  no  lower 
than  the  weight  in  the  "low"  column 
and  no  higher  than  the  weight  given 
in  the  "average"  column.  If  you  have 
a  large  frame,  use  the  "average"  and 
"high"  columns  to  determine  your 
desirable  weight  range.  If  your  frame 
is  about  average,  your  weight  should 

307 


probably  be  somewhere  close  to  the 
average  for  your  height. 

There  are  a  number  of  other  tables 
in  use  besides  those  mentioned.  All 
have  the  disadvantage  that  they  only 
consider  weight.  They  say  nothing 
about  fatness,  which  may  be  more  the 
point  in  question. 

Techniques  and  standards  for  judg- 
ing fatness  are  needed,  but  as  yet  no 
such  standards  are  in  general  use. 
Several  methods  are  being  tested  in 
research  situations,  however.  One  of 
the  most  promising  is  the  skinfold 
measurement,  or  "scientific  pinch"  as 
it  is  sometimes  called.  Special  calipers 
are  used  to  measure  the  fat  pad  just 
under  the  skin  at  certain  specified 
points  on  the  body.  Researchers  have 
been  able  to  correlate  these  measure- 
ments with  total  body  fatness.  Some- 
day we  may  see  the  skinfold  calipers 
routinely  used  in  the  physician's  office 
along  with  the  scale,  but  at  present 
their  use  is  limited  largely  to  research 
situations. 

There  is  no  doubt,  then,  that  height 
and   weight  alone   are   not   the   only 


Weights  of  Persons  20  to  30  Years  Old 

Weight  (without  clothing) 

Height  (without  shoes) 

Low 

Average 

High 

(pounds) 

(pounds) 

(pounds) 

Men 

5  feet  3  inches 

118 

129 

141 

5  feet  4  inches 

122 

133 

145 

5  feet  5  inches 

126 

137 

149 

5  feet  6  inches 

130 

142 

155 

5  feet  7  inches 

134 

147 

161 

5  feet  8  inches 

139 

151 

166 

5  feet  9  inches 

143 

155 

170 

5  feet  10  inches 

147 

159 

174 

5  feet  11  inches 

150 

163 

178 

6  feet 

154 
158 

167 
171 

183 

6  feet  1  inch 

188 

6  feet  2  inches 

162 

175 

192 

6  feet  3  inches 

165 

178 

195 

Women 

5  feet 

100 
104 

109 
112 

118 

5  feet  1  inch 

121 

5  feet  2  inches 

107 

115 

125 

5  feet  3  inches 

110 

118 

128 

5  feet  4  inches 

113 

122 

132 

5  feet  5  inches 

116 

125 

135 

5  feet  6  inches 

120 

129 

139 

5  feet  7  inches 

123 

132 

142 

5  feet  8  inches 

126 

136 

146 

5  feet  9  inches 

130 

140 

151 

5  feet  10  inches  .. 

133 

144 

156 

5  feet  11  inches. 

137 

148 

161 

6  feet 

141 

152 

166 

Using  skinfold  calipers  to  measure  fat  pad  on 
upper  arm,  at  Cornell  University's  Graduate 
School  of  Nutrition. 


factors  to  consider  in  deciding  whether 
a  person  is  too  fat.  Also  involved  are 
appearance,  general  health,  and  some 
indication  of  relative  fatness.  Many 
experts  would  rather  define  desirable 
weight  as  the  weight  at  which  you  feel 
your  best  and  look  your  best,  rather 
than  by  any  chart  or  table. 

Evaluating  the  weight  status  of 
children  is  even  more  complicated. 
Every  child  has  his  own  individual 
pattern  of  growth;  some  children  ex- 
perience the  adolescent  growth  spurt, 
for  instance,  several  years  earlier  than 
do  others.  And  during  puberty,  per- 
fecdy  normal  changes  in  fatness  occur 
due  to  sexual  maturation.  It  would  be 
unreasonable  to  apply  the  same  stand- 
ard for  desirable  weight  to  all  young- 
sters of  the  same  age  or  of  the  same 
height  even  if  we  could  allow  for  the 
differences  in  body  build. 

Some  tools  have  been  developed 
which  are  useful  in  evaluating  chil- 
dren's weight  status.  One  such  tool  is 
the  Meredith  growth  chart,  widely 
used  by  pediatricians  and  in  schools. 
This  type  of  chart  shows  growth 
progress  in  both  height  and  weight, 
allowing  for  a  wide  range  of  normal 
variation  at  every  age. 

Anyone  who  has  tried  to  lose  weight 


308 


is  acquainted  with  another  aspect  of 
weight  reduction.  Weight  loss  is  dif- 
ficult to  achieve  and  to  maintain  for 
many  people.  The  low  rate  of  success, 
measured  by  continued  maintenance 
of  weight  loss,  is  disheartening  to  the 
reducer  and  to  the  clinicians  who  work 
with  the  problem.  There  is  some  com- 
fort in  realizing  that  the  picture  is 
probably  brighter  than  published  fig- 
ures show.  Many  who  achieve  success 
may  do  so  upon  their  own  without 
ever  seeking  help  and  thus  are  never 
counted  in  the  statistics. 

Nevertheless,  there  is  no  question 
that  losing  weight  and  keeping  it  off 
is  an  obstinate  problem  for  many, 
many  people.  Understanding  some  of 
the  reasons  won't  in  itself  correct  the 
problem,  but  it  may  help  the  would- 
be  reducer  to  know  the  challenges  that 
he  is  up  against. 

One  reason  for  a  poor  success  in 
weight  reduction  programs  is  incom- 
plete knowledge  of  the  relevant  facts. 
Let's  consider  a  few  illustrations. 

Many  people  fail  to  realize  that 
obesity  has  multiple  causes.  Take,  for 
example,  the  common  experience  of 
weight  gain  during  the  first  year  of 
marriage.  But  what  caused  the  excess 
of  food?  A  rewardingly  appreciative 
husband,  perhaps.  Should  the  new 
wife  be  helped  to  realize  that  she 
cherishes  her  husband  more  effec- 
tively by  not  tempting  him  to  overeat? 
When  obesity  is  long-standing,  the 
causative  factors  are  much  more  com- 
plex. Treatment  requires  insight  be- 
yond "eat  less,  exercise  more." 

In  addition,  there  is  a  great  deal  of 
popular  ignorance  about  the  caloric 
value  of  food,  despite  all  that  has  been 
written  about  it.  Most  people  have  a 
general  idea  which  foods  are  high  in 
calories,  defined  as  furnishing  many 
calories  in  a  small  amount.  But  there 
are  many  misconceptions. 

Bread,  for  example,  has  a  high 
calorie  image.  To  many  people,  this 


These  boys  are  both  16,  but  obviously  at 
different  stages  of  maturity.  Each  is  of  normal 
weight,  but  the  two  cannot  be  judged  by  the 
same  standard. 


means  white  bread;  but  whole  wheat, 
rye,  or  diet  bread  are  often  thought 
of  as  substantially  lower  in  calories. 
Instead,  they  are  roughly  equivalent. 

Meat  enjoys  a  low-calorie  image. 
Meat  is  not  low  calorie  in  the  amounts 
usually  eaten.  Calorie  values  in  tables 
are  usually  given  in  2-  or  3-ounce 
servings.  This  means  one  small  ham- 
burger, one  frankfurter,  or  one  small 
pork  chop.  Servings  are  commonly 
twice  this  size.  Further,  many  meats 
contain  a  good  deal  of  fat  which 
cannot  be  trimmed  off. 

One  general  rule  about  caloric 
content  of  foods  may  prove  useful. 
Fat  contains,  weight  for  weight,  over 
twice  as  many  calories  as  carbohydrate 
or  protein.  Cutting  down  on  the 
amount  of  fat  in  the  diet  (substituting 


309 


skim  milk  for  whole  milk,  for  instance) 
may  be  the  most  efficient  way  to  trim 
calorie  intake. 

Few  people  realize,  too,  that  the 
overweight  person  doesn't  always  eat 
more  than  his  slender  peer.  Many 
studies  support  this  in  the  adolescent; 
some  show  it  for  the  adult.  If  a  person 
is  already  eating  very  little,  further 
restriction  may  seem  unrewarding 
unless  the  individual  is  either  prepared 
for  very  slow  progress  or  learns  to 
adjust  his  activity  pattern  upward. 

Finally,  there  is  the  human  desire 
for  overnight  results  which  has  some 
basis  in  ignorance.  Even  when  food 
intake  is  highly  restricted,  weight  loss 
is  bound  to  be  slow.  At  the  rate  of  a 
1,000  calorie  deficit  a  day — which  is 
fairly  severe — the  mathematical  pre- 
diction is  for  a  weight  loss  of  about 
2  pounds  of  fatty  tissue  a  week,  though 
the  scales  may  register  differently 
because  of  the  individual  variations  in 
retention  and  loss  of  water. 

The  deep-rooted  character  of  food 
habits  is  also  responsible  in  part  for 
failure  of  weight  reduction  programs. 
Each  of  us  has  an  individual  set  of 
food  habits  which  began  forming  with 
the  first  food  we  swallowed.  By  the 
time  we  are  adults,  these  food  con- 
sumption patterns  have  become  as 
much  a  part  of  us  as  the  way  we  walk, 
the  way  we  speak,  the  way  we  think. 
Anyone  who  has  tried  to  learn  a 
different  language  as  an  adult  knows 
how  difficult  it  is.  Changing  food 
habits  can  be  just  as  difficult. 

People  do  learn  new  languages — 
and  can  learn  to  change  food  habits, 
too.  But  in  either  case,  it  takes  strong 
motivation  and  a  great  deal  of  prac- 
tice. The  habit  of  eating  less  has  a 
chance  to  persist  only  when  the  effort 
has  been  made  for  a  long  enough  time 
to  provide  adequate  practice.  This 
means  a  program  sensible  enough  to 
permit  staying  with  it,  and  accom- 
panied by  a  deep  enough  motivation 
to  make  the  effort  worthwhile. 

These  characteristics  are  lacking 
in  many  weight  reduction  programs, 
which  is  one  reason  many  people  have 
learned   from    experience    to    expect 

310 


failure.  And  indeed,  one  of  the  most 
unlikely  candidates  for  success  is  the 
person  who  has  tried  to  maintain  a 
weight  loss  and  failed. 

Further,  attitudes  toward  life  often 
influence  attitudes  toward  food.  The 
person  who  is  more  concerned  about 
today  than  some  indefinite  tomorrow 
may  prefer  to  take  his  chances  with 
overweight  rather  than  to  forgo  the 
certain  pleasures  of  eating.  This  may 
be  especially  true  at  middle  age  or 
older  when  the  social  pressures  for  a 
slim  figure  have  lessened. 

Sometimes  these  personal  attitudes 
are  part  of  a  cultural  pattern  which 
does  not  put  a  high  premium  upon 
slenderness.  Some  studies,  for  example, 
suggest  that  the  higher  your  socio- 
economic status,  the  lower  the  preva- 
lence of  obesity.  Perhaps  slimness  is 
not  equally  important  at  all  social 
levels. 

Another  reason  for  lack  of  success 
is  failure  to  recognize  that  restricting 
food  intake  creates  a  stress  with  which 
the  reducer  must  be  able  to  cope. 
Whether  we  realize  it  or  not,  food 
fulfills  many  needs  other  than  absolute 
hunger.  Foods  we  learned  to  like  as 
children  mean  the  security  of  home 
and  family;  food  or  beverage  often 
becomes  synonomous  with  sociability; 
food  may  be  a  comfort  in  loneliness  or 
in  grief. 

These  are  only  a  few  such  associa- 
tions— and  their  relative  importance 
varies  with  the  individual.  It  is  im- 
portant to  remember  that  these  uses 
of  food  are  perfectly  valid  and  should 
never  be  discredited.  Restricting  food, 
without  an  adequate  substitute,  may 
create  more  problems  than  it  corrects. 

Because  food  supplies  psychological 
as  well  as  physical  needs,  there  may 
be  times  in  your  life  when  you  should 
not  try  to  reduce — if  you  are  under 
severe  stress,  for  example.  Or  if  you 
are  in  the  process  of  altering  another 
habit  pattern,  such  as  smoking.  One 
stress  at  a  time  is  enough. 

This  recitation  of  die  barriers  to 
achieving  and  maintaining  weight  loss 
may  have  left  you  with  a  feeling  of 
futility.   This  is,   of  course,   not  our 


purpose.  It  has  been  our  aim  instead 
to  give  you  a  sound  basis  for  appraising 
what  you  read  and  hear-about  weight 
reduction. 

For  instance,  we  hope  this  review 
has  helped  you  see  a  major  fallacy  in 
the  oddball  diets  so  often  promoted  in 
popular  writings.  Such  diets  may  be 
effective  in  dropping  the  first  several 
pounds.  But  they  do  littie  to  prepare 
you  to  continue  the  batde  after  the 
first  skirmish  is  won.  The  only  true 
test  of  success  is  in  not  regaining. 

Our  review  would  be  incomplete 
without  a  few  words  about  the  parts 
of  the  enigma  which  are  as  yet  un- 
answered. We  have  chosen  to  present 
these  in  a  question  and  answer  format, 
pointing  out  how  far  present  knowl- 
edge goes  and  what  still  remains  to  be 
learned. 

•  What  controls  appetite?  Appetite 
controlling  mechanisms  have  been 
clearly  identified  and  located  in  the 
brains  of  animals.  When  the  area 
which  controls  satiety  is  destroyed, 
the  animal  eats  voraciously  and  so 
becomes  obese.  It  is  reasonable  to 
assume  that  a  similar  physiological 
mechanism  operates  in  humans.  But 
we  are  not  yet  sure  how  the  mechanism 
works — what  tells  it  to  decide  "I've 
had  enough"  or  "I'm  hungry."  And 
in  humans  the  study  of  any  physio- 
logical control  is  complicated  by  the 
psychological  factors.  The  possibility 
of  enough  knowledge  to  attack  the 
problem  of  obesity  from  this  angle  is 
not  yet  in  sight 

•  Are  some  people  really  more  effi- 
cient in  their  utilization  of  food  than 
others?  Certainly  this  seems  to  be 
true  to  many  overweight  people,  but 
there  is  little  research  evidence  to 
support  it.  There  are  some  recent 
indications  that  an  obese  animal, 
when  reduced,  uses  food  more  effi- 
ciendy  than  before.  Whether  or  not 
this  applies  to  man  is  not  clear. 
Someday  we  may  be  able  to  say  that 
the  obese  person  metabolizes  food  in 
a  different  way  than  his  slender 
friend,  but  that  day  is  not  yet  at  hand. 

•  Does  frequency  of  eating  affect  the 


conversion  of  food  to  fat?  Experimental 
work  in  animals  provides  evidence 
that  frequent  small  meals,  or  nibbling, 
produces  more  body  protein  and  less 
body  fat  than  eating  the  same  number 
of  calories  in  a  single  meal.  These 
results  have  been  demonstrated  in 
rats  but  have  not  been  shown  consist- 
endy  in  other  species.  Studies  in  humans 
have  been  negative,  too.  So  far,  there- 
fore, spaced  feeding  is  just  a  matter 
of  an  individual  choice — assuming,  of 
course,  that  extra  feedings  do  not  mean 
extra  calories. 

•  Does  the  proportion  of  protein,  fat, 
and  carbohydrate  in  the  diet  make  a 
difference  in  how  fast  you  lose  weight? 
Diet  plans  appear  periodically  which 
promise  spectacular  results  by  dras- 
tically altering  the  amount  of  protein, 
fat,  or  carbohydrate  in  the  diet.  A 
prominent  one  has  been  the  high 
fat-low  carbohydrate  regime  in  various 
versions.  When  investigated  under 
controlled  conditions,  none  of  these 
have  produced  any  more  weight  loss 
over  a  period  of  time  than  would  be 
expected  from  the  caloric  deficit  that 
they  provide. 

Such  drastic  diet  alterations,  in- 
cluding total  fast  or  starvation  diets, 
have  occasional  use  in  clinical  situa- 
tions. But  they  can  be  highly  dan- 
gerous for  the  self-treated  individual 
and  obviously  are  not  a  sensible  basis 
for  long-term  regulation. 

We  have  been  talking  so  far  of  what 
we  know  about  weight  reduction  and 
what  remains  to  be  learned.  How  can 
you  put  these  facts  to  work? 

A  standard  plan  for  everyone  is 
neither  sound  nor  sensible.  We  are 
all  different.  We  gained  weight  for 
different  reasons;  we  want  to  lose 
weight  for  different  reasons;  we  differ 
in  age,  health,  and  general  life  circum- 
stances. The  first  step  for  anyone  who 
is  serious  about  losing  weight  should 
be  working  out  a  personal  plan  with 
his  physician.  The  time  will  be  well 
spent. 

There  are  certain  circumstances 
which  call  for  special  approaches  to 
weight  control.  It  is  outside  the  scope 

311 


of  this  chapter  to  deal  with  all  the 
possible  problems,  but  we  will  mention 
a  few  of  the  important  factors  in  deal- 
ing with  specific  overweight  problems. 

The  overweight  child,  for  instance, 
needs  special  consideration.  We  have 
already  pointed  out  that  the  fat  child, 
especially  if  his  genetic  inheritance 
predisposes  to  easy  weight  gain,  very 
often  carries  his  physical  and  psycho- 
logical burden  for  a  lifetime.  Develop- 
ing eating  and  exercise  habits  which 
will  prevent  accumulation  of  excess 
fat  must  begin  early  in  life  if  he  is  to 
avoid  all  the  frustration  of  being  an 
overweight  individual  in  a  slender 
society.  If  the  chubby  toddler  or 
school-age  child  is  to  achieve  more 
reasonable  proportions,  he  requires 
understanding  and  knowledgeable 
help  from  his  parents  and  physician. 

Often  the  most  realistic  approach 
is  to  forgo  absolute  weight  loss  in 
favor  of  holding  the  weight  relatively 
constant  while  height  catches  up. 

Prospects  for  the  child  born  with  a 
predisposition  to  obesity  will  decidedly 
improve  if  and  when  parents  abandon 
the  old  notion  that  a  fat  child  is  a 
healthy  child.  This  isn't  to  say  that 
every  child  should  be  a  string  bean. 
Most  children  go  through  stages  of 
relative  chubbiness  prior  to  growth 
spurts  in  height;  and  like  the  adults, 
children  are  blessed  with  individual 
and  different  body  builds.  But  it  is 
quite  unfair  to  a  child  to  encourage 
his  chubbiness  as  a  baby  and  toddler 
and  then  to  suddenly  condemn  it  as 
he  approaches  adolescence. 

The  adolescent  is  perhaps  more  con- 
scious of  his  appearance  than  is  any 
other  person.  Many  teenagers  worry 
about  their  weight  when  there  is  no 
basis  for  real  concern.  One  study  of 
teenage  girls  showed  that  although 
only  about  15  percent  of  the  girls 
studied  could  be  classified  as  obese, 
almost  two-thirds  had  dieted  to  lose 
weight,  and  37  percent  were  on  diets 
on  the  day  of  the  interview ! 

These  results  may  reflect  in  part 
the  fact  that  dieting  was  "the  thing 
to  do."  But  many  of  the  girls  probably 
felt  they  were  too  heavy  even  though 

312 


their  weight  was  mainly  due  to  heavy 
bone  and  muscle  structures.  Many 
teenagers  need  to  be  helped  to  set 
realistic  goals  for  their  body  weight  in 
order  to  avoid  fruidess  and  some- 
times dangerous  fad  dieting. 

But  what  of  the  adolescent  who  is 
too  fat?  Many  are.  Here  again  it  is 
important  to  distinguish  between  long- 
standing, persistent  obesity  and  the 
more  common  transient  period  of 
chubbiness  which  often  precedes  the 
adolescent  growth  spurt.  Rapid  growth 
in  height  will  usually  remedy  the 
latter  situation  in  a  few  months'  time. 
But  the  adolescent  growth  spurt  will 
not  streamline  the  youngster  who  has 
been  fat  since  childhood. 

During  adolescence,  when  aware- 
ness of  die  opposite  sex  and  of  one's 
own  body  is  at  a  high  point,  obesity 
is  especially  difficult  to  cope  with. 
Achieving  emotional  independence — 
which  is  none  too  easy  for  any  teen- 
ager— is  particularly  difficult  for  the 
obese  youth.  The  overweight  ado- 
lescent needs  help  not  only  in  con- 
trolling his  weight,  but  in  accepting 
himself  as  a  person.  Sympathetic, 
unchastising  support  from  parents, 
teachers,  physician,  and  peers  is  of 
paramount  importance. 

Because  the  adolescent  is  in  a  phase 
of  rapid  growth  and  development, 
nutritional  needs  are  high  even  for 
the  obese.  It  is  extremely  important 
that  nutrient  intake  be  adequate  even 
when  calories  are  restricted. 

Often  the  most  successful  approach 
to  weight  reduction  for  the  obese 
teenager  is  moderate  caloric  restric- 
tion coupled  with  a  program  of 
increased  physical  activity.  Such  a 
program  has  psychological  as  well  as 
physical  value,  since  increased  partic- 
ipation in  activity  may  help  break  a 
habit  of  withdrawal  from  social  situa- 
tions. And  certainly  an  approach 
which  does  not  restrict  caloric  intake 
too  severely  is  to  be  preferred  at  a 
time  of  life  when  so  many  other 
stresses  are  present. 

Adults.  Let's  turn  now  to  the  prob- 
lems of  weight  control  in  adulthood. 
We  have  pointed  out  that  the  obese 


child  all  too  often  remains  obese 
throughout  his  life.  But  many  obese 
adults  were  not  fat  as  children.  Why 
do  these  extra  pounds  accumulate? 
The  easy  answer  is  too  much  food. 
This  is  true  as  far  as  it  goes.  But  what 
special  conditions  of  adulthood  par- 
ticularly predispose  toward  an  excess 
weight  gain? 

One  common  concern  for  women  is 
extra  weight  gain  during  pregnancy. 
Pregnancy  poses  special  problems 
because  two  conflicting  sets  of  cir- 
cumstances are  operating.  On  the  one 
hand  the  mother  realizes  it  is  impor- 
tant to  get  the  right  kind  and  amount 
of  food.  At  the  same  time  she  also 
knows  that  excess  weight  gain  increases 
the  risk  of  complications  during  preg- 
nancy. Added  to  these  conflicts  may 
be  the  vague  confidence  that  the 
extra  weight  will  disappear  after  the 
baby  is  born.  As  many  women  can 
attest,  it  often  doesn't. 

The  paradox  is  further  compounded 
by  the  belief  that  calorie  needs  increase 
during  pregnancy.  This  is  true  in  part. 
Extra  calories  are  needed  during  the 
last  part  of  pregnancy  for  the  growth 
of  the  fetus  and  increased  metabolic 
rate.  But  this  added  requirement  may 
be  more  than  offset  by  the  reduced 
activity  as  moving  becomes  less  and 
less  comfortable.  Many  women,  there- 
fore, may  have  no  net  increase  in 
calorie  needs. 

Another  peak  period  of  weight  gain 
for  women  may  occur  during  meno- 
pause. This  may  have  a  physiological 
basis,  but  probably  psychological  and 
activity  factors  are  involved  as  well. 

The  slow,  steady  weight  gain  which 
is  common  after  35,  but  sometimes 
starts  even  earlier,  is  another  example 
of  adult  obesity  and  is  as  common 
among  men  as  it  is  among  women.  It 
is  particularly  hard  to  cope  with 
because  the  pounds  arrive  almost  un- 
noticed. By  the  time  10  or  20  pounds 
of  excess  have  accumulated,  the 
pattern  of  living  which  produced  them 
is  well  established.  The  soundest  ad- 
vice is  prevention  before  the  scales 
begin  to  creep  up. 

Energy  needs  are  bound  to  decrease 


in  adulthood  unless  you  make  a  con- 
scious effort  to  increase  them.  Part 
of  the  decrease  is  the  slow  but  con- 
sistent reduction  in  the  basal  metabolic 
rate.  Part  is  likely  due  to  a  decrease  in 
physical  activity  as  you  acquire  more 
laborsaving  possessions  and  less  active 
leisure  interests. 

Women  at  least  have  a  potential 
brake  on  adding  weight  because  of 
their  motivation  for  slimness.  Most 
men  are  less  concerned  with  their 
figures  and  may  be  motivated  only 
when  enough  weight  has  accumulated 
to  become  a  health  concern. 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  know,  too, 
that  you  get  fatter  as  you  get  older 
even  if  your  weight  stays  the  same. 
To  say  this  another  way,  active  tissue 
is  gradually  replaced  with  fat,  starting 
in  early  adulthood.  So  some  of  that 
"spare  tire,"  less-than-lean  feeling  is 
inevitable  as  middle  age  progresses. 

Possibly  you  are  one  of  the  lucky 
ones  whose  appetite  control  mecha- 
nisms automatically  balance  energy 
intake  with  needs.  But  many  people 
are  not  that  fortunate  and  have  to 
make  a  conscious  effort  to  achieve 
this  balance. 

As  part  of  a  program  of  prevention, 
it  just  makes  good  sense  to  keep 
reasonable  track  of  your  weight.  Even 
a  small  change  in  your  pattern  can 
add  or  subtract  several  pounds  in  a 
few  months.  One  slice  of  toast  for 
breakfast  instead  of  two,  for  example, 
decreases  your  intake  60  to  100 
calories  or  more,  depending  on  how 
much  butter  and  jam  you  like  on 
your  toast.  Couple  this  with  a  half- 
hour  brisk  walk  and  you  have  a 
calorie  deficit  of  well  over  100  calories 
a  day.  This  may  mean  only  a  pound 
or  so  a  month — but  it  also  means  10 
to  12  pounds  in  a  year ! 

The  same  principle  applies  if  you 
are  already  the  owner  of  extra  pounds. 
The  difference  is  only  one  of  degree. 
That  is,  losing  weight  requires  a 
more  substantial  change  in  food  intake 
and  exercise  than  the  goal  of  avoiding 
weight  gain. 

There  is  no  one  best  diet  plan  for 

313 


reducing.  Choosing  the  best  one  in  a 
given  circumstance  is  a  very  individual 
matter.  Everybody  can  lose  weight 
assuming  a  sufficient  and  continued 
change  in  the  energy  equation,  but 
the  same  way  will  simply  not  work  for 
everyone. 

Some  people  need  the  support  of 
others,  perhaps  a  group  of  fellow 
reducers.  Some  will  do  the  best  by 
themselves. 

Some  find  it  easier  to  eat  five  or 
six  times  a  day.  Others  say  that  fre- 
quent eating  means  to  them  only 
more  frequent  temptation. 

Some  do  best  on  a  slow  and  steady 
routine,  perhaps  a  pound  a  week  or 
even  less.  Others  need  the  encourage- 
ment of  more  rapid  weight  loss. 

Some  people  want  a  flexible  plan. 
Others  need  the  crutch  of  definite 
rules — often  the  more  rigid  the  regula- 
tions, the  better.  Probably  the  most 
common  example  is  counting  calories. 
Another  is  the  formula  diet.  Some- 
times the  rules  dictate  eating  specific 
foods  at  certain  times,  or  eating  foods 
in  specific  combinations.  There  is 
nothing  inherently  wrong  in  these 
approaches,  as  long  as  the  plan  is 
nutritionally  adequate.  Just  remember 
that  they  function  as  a  prop  for  those 
who  wish  one.  But  there  is  nothing 
magic  about  them. 

No  matter  how  you  choose  to  lose 
weight,  remember  there  are  some 
basic  ideas  you  should  begin  with: 

Talk  with  your  physician  first. 
There  may  be  good  reasons  why  you 
shouldn't  try  to  lose  weight;  or  there 
may  be  medical  reasons  for  special 
considerations  in  your  choice  of  a 
plan  of  action.  Your  doctor  is  the 
one  to  decide. 

Set  a  realistic  goal  for  weight 
reduction,  based  upon  your  doctor's 
evaluation  and  taking  your  basic 
body  build  into  account. 

Don't  fall  prey  to  the  claims  of 
miracle  aids  to  weight  loss.  There 
is  no  easy  way  to  lose  weight.  The 
only  way  to  make  it  easier  is  to  really 
want  to  lose  weight — more  than  you 
want  to  eat ! 

314 


Choose  a  diet  you  can  live  with. 
All  food  has  caloric  value.  You'll 
want  to  avoid  some  high-calorie  foods, 
but  it's  not  wise  to  cut  out  your  favorite 
foods  altogether.  And  remember  that 
alcohol  is  not  without  calories.  One 
double  martini  is  at  least  the  caloric 
equivalent  of  a  piece  of  pie. 

Remember  that  exercise  does  use  up 
calories.  And  especially  with  moderate 
exercise,  increased  appetite  isn't  a 
necessary  result.  Try  to  build  some 
exercise  into  your  everyday  habits. 

Plan  your  exercise  pattern  as  care- 
fully as  you  do  your  diet.  For  many 
people,  learning  to  get  more  physical 
exercise  is  harder  than  learning  to 
eat  less  food. 

Don't  be  discouraged  by  day-to-day 
fluctuations  in  weight.  The  clothes 
that  you're  wearing  and  the  time  of 
day  make  a  difference  in  your  weight, 
as  do  variations  in  fluid  retention 
which  are  common  during  weight  loss. 
It  makes  more  sense  to  weigh  your- 
self once  a  week  than  every  day. 

Try  to  "diet  quiet."  The  person  on 
a  diet  can  make  a  conversation  pretty 
dull.  And  he  can  make  life  uncom- 
fortable for  others  by  making  them 
feel  guilty  about  the  food  that  they're 
eating. 

Be  prepared  for  "help"  from  others. 
Family  and  friends  may  worry  about 
you,  especially  after  you've  lost  a 
few  pounds.  They  will  undoubtedly 
feel  sorry  for  you  if  they  realize  that 
you're  going  without  food  you  want. 
Steel  yourself  against  their  remarks 
and  keep  your  determination  up ! 

Keep  in  mind  that  the  ultimate 
measure  of  success  in  weight  reduc- 
tion is  not  getting  the  pounds  off,  but 
keeping  them  off.  All  your  efforts  to 
lose  weight  should  continue,  not  for  a 
week  or  a  month,  but  for  the  rest  of 
your  life. 


For  further  reading: 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Food 
and  Tour  Weight.  Home  and  Garden  Bulletin 
74,  Washington,  D.C.  20250, 

Public  Health  Service,  Obesity  and 
Health.  Publication  No.  1485,  U.S.  Govern- 
ment Printing  Office,  Washington,  D.C. 
20402. 


Bemice  K.  Watt 


Nutritive  Values 
of  Foods,  and 
Use  of  Tables 
Listing  Them 


Like  the  millions  upon  millions  of 
snowflakes,  no  two  alike  but  in  some 
aspects  similar  to  others,  so  our  foods 
are  unique  in  their  individual  makeup 
yet  each  has  some  of  the  characteris- 
tics of  others.  No  matter  how  we 
regard  food,  simply  as  a  necessity  of 
life  or  as  something  which  we  also 
enjoy,  to  our  bodies  it  is  the  nutrients 
in  the  foods  that  count.  All  of  the  50 
or  more  nutrients  now  known  to  be 
needed  for  good  health  are  abundandy 
available  from  food. 

Our  fund  of  knowledge  continues  to 
increase  about  our  needs  for  nutrients, 
their  occurrence  in  foods,  and  the 
effects  on  nutrients  of  processing  and 
preparing  the  products  that  we  eat. 
As  this  knowledge  increases,  tables  of 
food  values  for  research  workers  and 
others  with  specialized  problems  be- 
come longer  and  more  complicated. 
Fortunately,  for  selecting  foods  and 
planning  or  evaluating  our  everyday 
diets,  information  about  those  nutri- 
ents which  are  best  known  is  usually 
adequate. 

The  nutrients  that  are  best  known 
include  protein;  fat;  carbohydrate; 
calcium;  iron;  vitamin  A  value;  three 
of   the    B-vitamins,    thiamine,    ribo- 


flavin, and  niacin;  and  ascorbic  acid, 
also  called  vitamin  C.  Of  these,  pro- 
tein, fat,  and  carbohydrate  are  energy- 
yielding  nutrients.  Energy  is  measured 
in  units  called  calories.  Food  energy 
is,  of  course,  a  dietary  essential  and 
it  too  needs  to  be  included  in  tables 
of  food  values.  Often,  however,  in 
the  emphasis  put  on  counting  calories, 
other  essentials  are  ignored. 

In  several  special  situations,  like  the 
manned  space  flights,  water  content 
of  the  diet  becomes  important  and 
so  water  is  assessed  along  with  other 
nutrients  in  the  foods  for  astronauts. 
Although  we  do  not  need  to  consider 
the  water  content  of  foods  for  our 
usual  diets,  this  information  is  useful 
for  identifying  the  particular  form  of 
some  items  and  often  for  making  com- 
parisons between  foods. 

Tables  of  food  values  are  useful 
sources  for  reference  to  these  data. 
Tables  cannot  provide  information  for 
all  the  foods  we  may  want  to  eat, 
however,  and  at  times  it  may  not  be 
convenient  or  practical  to  consult  a 
reference  table.  It  is  well,  therefore, 
to  have  in  mind  as  part  of  our  general 
knowledge,  some  information  about 
the  nutritive  values  of  our  basic  foods. 

One  way  to  acquire  a  background 
on  the  nutritive  value  of  foods  is  to 
study  them  in  groups  by  type  of  origin, 
since  each  of  the  natural  groupings 
makes  a  highly  significant  contribu- 
tion of  several  dietary  essentials  and 
smaller  or  negligible  contributions  of 
the  others.  Besides  this,  it  may  be 
helpful  to  consider  together  two  or 
more  groups  with  such  similar  proper- 
ties that  they  are  often  used  inter- 
changeably in  meal  planning. 

As  a  practical  basis  in  considering 
foods  as  sources  of  nutrients,  we  may 
group  them  as  follows:  Milk  and  the 
other  dairy  products;  eggs;  meat, 
poultry,  and  fish;  dry  beans  and  peas 
and  nuts;  vegetables  and  fruits;  grain 
products;  fats;  and  sugars.  Similari- 
ties   and    differences    in    the    major 

Bemice  K.  Watt  is  a  Nutrition  Analyst,  Con- 
sumer and  Food  Economics  Research  Division, 
Agricultural  Research  Service. 

315 


nutrients  provided  by  these  groups  and 
by  some  foods  within  the  groups  are 
noted  in  the  paragraphs  below.  A  few 
of  the  lesser  known  nutrients  are 
mentioned  as  they  also  are  important 
and  it  is  well  to  remember  that  nature 
has  provided  them  for  us. 

Whole  milk,  outstanding  for  its 
calcium,  is  a  good  source  of  vitamin  A, 
riboflavin,  vitamin  B12,  and  of  good 
quality  protein.  It  provides  important 
amounts  of  many  other  nutrients,  too, 
but  has  only  a  negligible  amount  of 
iron  and  cannot  be  depended  on  for 
ascorbic  acid. 

Dairy  products  that  retain  milk  fat 
carry  the  vitamin  A  value;  skim  milk 
retains  the  other  nutrients  important 
in  whole  milk  but  provides  only  a 
little  more  than  half  the  number  of 
calories.  One  factor  in  the  differences 
in  nutritive  value  of  the  different  types 
of  cheese  is  that  some  cheeses  are  made 
from  whole  milk  while  others  are  made 
from  skim  or  part  skim  milk. 

Eggs  are  an  excellent  source  of 
protein  of  high  quality  and  are  one  of 
the  few  foods  in  which  nature  pro- 
vides vitamin  D.  The  yolk  has  vitamin 
A  and  vitamin  D,  iron,  calcium,  and 
most  of  the  B-vitamins  including 
vitamins  B6  and  BJ2  as  well  as  fat  and 
protein.  The  white  of  the  egg  has 
riboflavin  and  protein  but  only  small 
amounts  of  most  other  nutrients. 
Ascorbic  acid  is  not  needed  by  the 
developing  chick,  and  eggs  do  not 
contain  this  vitamin. 

Meat,  poultry,  and  fish,  like  most 
other  foods  of  animal  origin,  are  good 
sources  of  high-quality  protein.  They 
are  good  sources,  too,  of  most  of  the 
B-vitamins  including  vitamin  B6  and 
vitamin  B12.  Pork  in  particular  is  an 
especially  good  source  of  thiamine. 
All  the  red  muscle  meats  are  notable 
for  their  content  of  iron.  Except  for 
liver,  the  items  in  this  group  have  only 
small  amounts  of  ascorbic  acid  or 
vitamin  A.  Likewise,  they  have  little 
calcium  unless  some  of  the  bone  is 
used,  as  it  often  is  in  canned  salmon, 
sardines,  some  other  fish,  and  pickled 
products. 

Dry  beans  and  peas  and  nuts  are 

316 


used  sometimes  as  main  dishes.  All 
are  concentrated  sources  of  food 
energy,  with  their  high  content  of 
protein  in  addition  to  considerable 
carbohydrates  or  fats  or  both.  They 
are  good  sources  for  a  number  of 
minerals  including  magnesium.  For 
generations,  soybeans  have  been  the 
main  source  of  calcium  in  the  diets 
of  many  oriental  peoples.  Foods  in 
this  group  are  also  good  sources  of 
a  number  of  the  B-vitamins. 

Peanuts  and  their  products  are  out- 
standing for  their  content  of  niacin. 
The  content  of  fat  in  nuts  is  high, 
except  in  chestnuts.  For  many  kinds 
of  nuts,  fat  makes  up  half  or  more 
of  the  weight. 

Vegetables  and  fruits  can  be  con- 
sidered as  one  big  group.  These  foods 
are  a  major  source  of  most  vitamins 
and  minerals.  Ascorbic  acid  occurs 
abundantly  in  the  citrus  fruits,  straw- 
berries, cantaloups,  vegetables  of  the 
cabbage  family,  and  in  numerous 
other  fruits  and  vegetables. 

The  succulent  vegetables  and  most 
fruits  have  a  high  content  of  water 
and  only  small  amounts  of  the  energy- 
yielding  nutrients.  A  firm  head  of 
lettuce,  for  example,  may  be  95  per- 
cent water.  Even  so,  it  has  appreciable 
amounts  of  minerals  and  vitamins, 
more  in  the  darker  green  leaves  than 
in  the  bleached  inner  parts.  Potatoes, 
sweetpotatoes,  bananas,  and  some 
winter  squashes  have  less  water,  from 
only  about  70  to  85  percent,  but  more 
carbohydrate  than  lettuce  and  other 
leafy  or  tender  vegetables. 

Except  for  avocados,  fruits  and 
vegetables  have  only  small  amounts  of 
fat.  The  orange-colored  and  dark 
green  products  like  carrots,  broccoli, 
spinach,  turnip  greens,  and  some 
varieties  of  sweetpotatoes,  have  par- 
ticularly high  vitamin  A  values. 

Cereal  grains  and  the  products  made 
from  them  are  predominantly  carbo- 
hydrate in  their  composition  but  also 
contain  appreciable  amounts  of  many 
other  nutrients.  Cereals  have  some 
protein.  Because  of  the  large  quantities 
used,  cereals  contribute  considerable 
protein  to  our  diets. 


All  of  the  whole  grain  or  near  whole 
grain  forms  of  cereals  we  use  as  food — 
whole  cornmeal,  oatmeal,  brown  rice, 
whole  wheat  flour  or  cereal,  dark 
buckwheat  and  rye  flours — have  im- 
portant amounts  of  thiamine,  vitamin 
B6,  vitamin  E,  iron,  and  many  other 
nutrients  including  a  number  of  trace 
elements  recendy  found  essential.  The 
minerals  and  vitamins  are  concen- 
trated in  the  outer  portions  of  the 
grains,  and  if  these  outer  layers  are 
removed  in  milling  and  processing, 
much  of  their  original  vitamin  and 
mineral  content  is  reduced.  However, 
many  of  our  cereal  products  have  had 
nutrients  added  to  them. 

Fats  are  important  in  our  diets  and 
occur  in  many  foods — milk,  meat, 
nuts,  dry  legumes,  cereal  grains,  and 
other  seeds — from  which  they  are 
separated  and  made  into  products 
convenient  for  our  use.  Butter  oil, 
rendered  fat  from  animal  tissues,  and 
refined  oil  from  plant  sources  are  our 
most  concentrated  sources  of  energy 
value.  They  have  more  than  twice  the 
calories  of  either  protein  or  carbohy- 
drate, the  other  energy-yielding  nu- 
trients present  in  foods. 

Fats  are  sometimes  classified  as 
saturated  or  unsaturated.  A  chemist 
describes  a  fat  as  unsaturated  if  its 
fatty  acids  can  combine  with  hydrogen 
and  as  saturated  if  they  already  are 
combined  with  all  the  hydrogen  they 
can  hold.  Polyunsaturated  is  used  to 
describe  those  fatty  acids  that  can 
take  up  hydrogen  at  more  than  one 
place  in  their  structure. 

The  fats  in  foods  of  plant  origin 
usually  have  a  higher  content  of  the 
polyunsaturated  fats,  including  the 
essential  fatty  acid,  linoleic  acid,  than 
is  present  in  the  fats  of  animal  origin. 
Two  important  exceptions  are  coconut 
oil  and  olive  oil.  These  have  less 
polyunsaturated  fat  than  other  com- 
monly used  fats  of  a  plant  origin. 
Cholesterol  is  another  constituent  of 
fat.  It  is  present  only  in  foods  of 
animal  origin.  Egg  yolk,  liver,  brains, 
kidney,  and  shellfish  are  all  among 
the  more  concentrated  sources  for 
cholesterol. 


The  two  commonly  used  table  fats, 
butter  and  margarine,  are  well-known 
sources  for  vitamin  A.  Other  fat- 
soluble  vitamins  may  be  present  in 
the  fats  and  oils  prepared  from  plant 
sources.  Salad  dressings  are  often 
included  with  the  fats  because  some 
form  of  separated  fat  is  a  major 
ingredient  for  most  of  them. 

Sugars  of  the  various  kinds,  sirups, 
candies,  honey,  molasses,  jellies,  and 
jams  are  all  concentrated  sources  of 
carbohydrate.  Small  amounts  of  other 
nutrients  are  present  in  some  of  the 
less  refined  products.  Molasses  has 
more  mineral  matter  than  brown  or 
unrefined  sugars,  corn  or  other  sirups. 

A  question  about  values  published  in 
tables  of  food  composition  which  is 
raised  over  and  over  is,  why  do  values 
for  foods  shown  in  one  table  differ 
from  the  figures  in  another  table? 
There  are  many  reasons.  The  quan- 
tities of  a  particular  food  for  which 
calories  and  nutrients  are  shown  are 
not  always  the  same  in  the  various 
tables.  Apparent  discrepancies  in  nu- 
tritive values  for  an  item  are  often 
resolved  when  the  weights  of  food  for 
which  these  values  are  reported  are 
taken  into  consideration.  Unfortu- 
nately, weights  are  not  always  stated 
and  thus  the  measures  are  often  only 
approximations . 

Many  of  the  packaged  or  processed 
items  we  buy  have  had  nutrients  added 
in  their  manufacture.  For  some  prod- 
ucts there  are  limitations  upon  the 
kinds  and  amounts  of  nutrients  that 
may  be  added.  For  example,  Federal 
enrichment  laws  state  the  minimum 
and  maximum  levels  for  iron,  thia- 
mine, riboflavin,  and  niacin  which 
must  be  observed  in  certain  cereal 
products  if  they  are  labeled  as  "en- 
riched." Margarine  in  this  country 
customarily  has  vitamin  A  added, 
nonfat  dry  milk  may  have  vitamins 
A  and  D  added,  each  according  to 
specified  Federal  regulations. 

A  great  many  other  products  have 
one  or  more  nutrients  added  in  their 
manufacture,  and  for  most,  there  are 
no  Federal  regulations  that  govern 
selection  of  the  nutrients  or  of  the 

317 


amounts  that  may  be  added.  For  these 
foods,  the  kind  and  extent  of  fortifica- 
tion may  be  changed  at  any  time  at 
the  manufacturer's  discretion.  The 
label  must  state,  however,  what  is 
added.  General  figures  published  in 
the  tables  cannot  keep  pace  with  the 
changes  that  this  kind  of  fortification 
can  introduce. 

Values  shown  in  tables  for  foods 
prepared  from  recipes  should  be 
considered  solely  as  estimates.  For 
prepared  products  such  as  these, 
the  calorie  and  nutrient  content  will 
vary  considerably  depending  upon 
the  recipe  used,  and  the  recipe  is  the 
prerogative  of  die  cook. 

As  an  example,  lemon  pie  made  with 
whole  eggs  or  egg  yolks  as  the  thick- 
ening agent  would  be  quite  different 
in  some  of  its  values  from  one  thick- 
ened with  flour  or  cornstarch  and 
containing  no  eggs.  Figures  that  would 
be  tailored  for  a  better  fit  to  a  par- 
ticular item  than  the  figures  in  a 
table  could  probably  be  obtained  by 
calculation  from  ingredients  if  the 
cook  will  divulge  the  recipe  for  her 
specialty. 

Tables  of  food  values  are  prepared 
for  various  purposes.  In  some  cases 
most  of  the  data  are  to  be  used  with 
quantities  of  food  that  are  ready  to 
eat.  In  other  tables,  most  of  the  data 
may  apply  to  foods  as  they  are  brought 
into  the  kitchen.  Values  shown  may 
be  for  raw  food  although  only  a 
cooked  form  is  eaten.  Cooking  nearly 
always  alters  the  content  of  the  nu- 
trients, and  data  for  raw  and  cooked 
forms  of  an  item  would  be  expected  to 
differ.  (Information  about  conserving 
food  values  has  been  published  else- 
where. See  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture's  Home  and  Garden  Bul- 
letin No.  90,  Conserving  the  Nutritive 
Value  in  Foods.) 

In  the  case  of  prepared  products, 
manufactured  items  which  are  not 
standardized,  and  foods  in  different 
forms  as  raw  or  cooked,  the  basis  of 
differences  in  values  among  tables  is 


obvious.  For  some  other  types  of  food 
the  differences  among  published  values 
may  be  valid  but  die  reasons  less 
obvious.  The  values  may  differ  for 
foods  that  are  used  as  nature  produces 
them.  For  example,  two  oranges — 
even  if  from  the  same  tree — might 
differ  in  content  of  vitamin  C.  Two 
eggs  laid  in  one  week  by  the  same  hen 
do  not  necessarily  have  an  identical 
amount  of  nutrients. 

Such  differences  are  interesting  and 
important  for  some  research  investi- 
gations. They  need  be  of  no  concern 
for  practical  dietary  planning.  They 
serve  to  illustrate,  however,  that  the 
results  from  an  analysis  of  only  a 
single  sample  or  a  limited  sampling 
may  not  represent  the  food  in  general. 
Sampling  can  explain  some  of  the 
differences  in  published  figures. 

Values  for  general  use  need  to  be 
broadly  based.  Variety,  conditions  of 
production,  storage,  kind  and  extent 
of  milling,  or  other  form  of  processing 
and  preparation  are  among  the  factors 
that  affect  the  content  of  nutrients  in 
our  food  supplies  and  in  our  foods 
prepared  to  eat.  Those  factors  of  im- 
portance known  to  be  related  to  the 
content  of  nutrients  in  a  food  are  con- 
sidered in  preparing  the  values  pub- 
lished in  the  food  tables  issued  by  the 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 

Values,  once  they  are  derived,  may 
not  apply  to  the  foods  indefinitely. 
New  strains  or  varieties  may  be  bred 
into  our  basic  food  stocks.  Changes 
are  introduced  in  storing  conditions, 
processing,  preserving,  and  manufac- 
turing the  products  we  eat.  As  a 
result,  the  values  for  the  nutrients  in 
our  foods  change.  Figures  in  our  tables 
must  be  under  continual  review  and 
revised  as  needed  to  keep  the  data 
applicable  to  current  food  products. 


For  further  reading: 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Nu- 
tritive Value  of  Foods.  Home  and  Garden 
Bulletin  72,  Washington,  D.C.,  1964. 


318 


Evelyn  B.  Spindler 
Margaret  C.  Browne 


Ways  and  Means 
of  Improving  Oor 
Diets— and  Half 
of  Us  Need  to! 


We  like  to  think  that  we  in  the  United 
States  are  the  best  fed  people  in  the 
world,  that  everyone  has  an  adequate 
diet.  Recent  research,  however,  in- 
dicates this  is  not  necessarily  true. 
There  are  persons  of  all  ages  and  all 
economic  levels  who  need  to  improve 
their  diets. 

To  improve  diets,  it  is  important  to 
know  what  people  eat  and  why  they 
eat  what  they  do.  Then  ways  of  con- 
vincing them  to  change  their  food 
habits,  when  needed,  must  be  found. 

The  U.S.  Department  of  Agri- 
culture makes  periodic  nationwide 
and  smaller  special-purpose  surveys 
of  the  food  used  by  families  to  learn 
about  American  diets.  This  research 
is  especially  important  in  view  of  the 
fast-changing  food  habits  and  mobility 
of  today's  families.  Even  though 
enough  food  is  available  so  all  families 
could  have  a  "good"  diet,  the  1965 
studies  show  that  only  about  half  the 
families  actually  had  a  "good"  diet. 

To  define  a  "good"  diet,  we  need  to 
refer  to  some  standard.  The  Food  and 
Nutrition  Board  of  the  National  Re- 
search Council  recommends  amounts 
of    important    nutrients    needed    by 


persons  of  different  ages.  Measured 
by  the  Council's  standard,  a  diet  is 
termed  "good"  if  the  nutritive  value 
equals  or  exceeds  the  recommended 
allowances  for  each  of  seven  nutrients: 
protein,  calcium,  iron,  vitamin  A, 
thiamine,  riboflavin,  and  ascorbic 
acid.  The  Food  and  Nutrition  Board 
explains,  however,  that,  "If  the  recom- 
mended allowances  are  used  as  refer- 
ence standards  for  interpreting  records 
of  food  consumption,  it  should  not  be 
assumed  that  food  practices  are  neces- 
sarily poor  or  that  malnutrition  exists 
because  the  recommendations  are  not 
completely  met." 

The  food  consumed  by  a  family 
obviously  does  not  tell  us  whether  all 
individuals  in  the  family  receive  ade- 
quate amounts  of  any  given  food.  If, 
for  example,  a  family  of  four  buys  2 
quarts  of  milk  each  day,  by  taking  an 
average  we  might  assume  each  mem- 
ber of  the  family  received  a  pint.  In 
reality  one  person,  such  as  a  teenage 
son,  may  drink  1  quart,  leaving  the 
remaining  quart  to  be  distributed 
among  the  other  three  members  of 
the  family.  Perhaps  the  mother  drinks 
no  milk  and  gets  less  than  1  cup  in 
cooked  food. 

This  example  points  up  the  need  to 
know  much  more  about  the  food  habits 
of  individual  family  members  if  we  are 
to  determine  the  adequacy  of  their 
diets.  Such  information  can  help  direct 
educational  programs  to  those  who 
need  them  most. 

As  part  of  the  1965  Nationwide 
Household  Food  Consumption  Sur- 
vey, information  was  obtained  on  the 
food  intake  for  1  day  for  14,500  men, 
women,  and  children.  In  general,  the 
diets  of  females  were  not  as  good  as 
those  of  males.  The  three  groups  in 
need  of  improved  diets  were  adolescent 
girls  and  women  ranging  from  age  9 
through  64,  older  men  and  women, 
and  infants  and  children  under  3. 

Past  studies  have  shown  that  the 

Evelyn  B.  Spindler  is  a  Nutritionist  with  the 
Division  of  Home  Economics,  Federal  Extension 
Service. 

■  Margaret  C.  Browne,  the  former  Director 
of  the  Division,  is  now  retired. 

319 


percentage  of  young  people  with  poor 
diets  is  likely  to  increase  from  child- 
hood to  teenage.  The  teenage  girl  is 
likely  to  be  the  most  poorly  fed  mem- 
ber of  the  family.  The  situation  of  the 
girls  is  more  critical  than  the  boys. 
This  is  partly  because  boys  consume 
more  food  than  girls  and  so  have  a 
better  chance  of  getting  needed  nutri- 
ents. A  15-year-old  boy  needs  about 
3,000  calories,  compared  to  about  2,400 
for  a  girl  the  same  age.  So  the  boy,  in 
eating  one-third  extra  calories,  gets 
more  nutrients. 

To  better  understand  why  people 
eat  what  they  do  we  need  to  consider 
some  of  the  factors  that  influence  diets. 
If  we  hope  to  improve  diets,  we  must 
take  a  realistic  look  at  the  factors  re- 
lating to  poor  diets  and  determine  how 
to  combat  them. 

A  number  of  persons  skip  meals  and 
particularly  breakfast.  Many  students 
go  to  school  with  no  breakfast  or  a 
very  inadequate  one.  Many  a  secretary 
starts  the  day  with  a  cup  of  coffee  and 
a  cigarette.  If  breakfast  is  omitted,  it 
may  not  be  easy  to  get  all  the  needed 
nutrients  in  the  other  two  meals  plus 
frequent  snacks. 

A  study  of  3,500  high  school  stu- 
dents, carried  out  in  Massachusetts, 
showed  1 1  percent  of  the  boys  and  19 
percent  of  the  girls  had  no  breakfast. 
An  additional  40  percent  of  the  boys 
and  50  percent  of  the  girls  had  a  poor 
breakfast. 

In  a  study  in  North  Carolina,  13 
percent  of  the  students  in  the  ninth 
grade  missed  a  meal.  This  increased 
to  18  percent  in  the  10th  grade  and 
to  25  percent  in  the  12th  grade. 

Why  do  we  make  all  this  fuss  about 
breakfast?  In  most  instances,  the 
body  has  been  without  food  8  to  12 
hours  and  needs  fuel.  Does  a  good 
breakfast  make  a  difference?  To  de- 
termine this,  experiments  were  con- 
ducted at  the  University  of  Iowa.  The 
students  tested  ate  good  breakfasts 
for  5  weeks,  then  omitted  breakfast 
for  5  weeks.  Three  scientific  measure- 
ments were  made  between  11  a.m. 
and  noon.  Reaction  time  was  tested 
to  determine  how  fast  a  correct  de- 

320 


cision  could  be  made.  Steadiness  or 
neuromuscular  tremor  was  the  second 
test,  and  the  third,  work  output,  was 
checked  by  riding  a  stationary  bicycle. 

The  researchers  found  that  when 
breakfast  was  omitted  the  students 
took  longer  to  make  decisions,  were 
less  steady,  and  work  output  was  less. 
We  can  conclude  that  when  students 
eat  a  good  breakfast,  they  are  likely 
to  (1)  work  and  play  better,  (2)  be 
more  alert  in  their  thinking  and  action 
in  the  late  morning  hours,  (3)  be 
calmer  and  steadier,  and  (4)  have 
more  fun  and  enjoyment. 

Fad  diets  are  a  common  reason  for 
poor  food  habits.  With  so  much  food 
available  to  most  people  and  so  little 
physical  activity,  it  is  not  easy  to  keep 
to  the  balance  of  calories  necessary 
to  maintain  normal  weight.  Many 
teenage  girls  and  women  are  looking 
for  an  easy  way  to  control  their  weight. 
Fad  diets  seem  to  have  a  greater 
appeal  than  carefully  controlling  calo- 
ries and  increasing  exercise.  Most 
fad  diets  do  not  have  the  balance  of 
nutrients  needed  for  good  health.  If 
the  fad  diet  is  followed  for  a  long  time 
or  during  periods  of  greater  than  aver- 
age need,  such  as  growth  for  the  teen- 
age girl  or  during  pregnancy,  the  harm 
can  be  even  greater. 

Today  many  of  us  consume  a  signifi- 
cant amount  of  our  calories  between 
meals.  The  type  of  food  we  select  as 
snacks  can  make  a  great  difference  in 
whether  or  not  we  get  the  nutrients 
needed  each  day.  Some  snack  foods 
are  very  high  in  "empty  calories"  and 
low  in  minerals,  vitamins,  and  pro- 
tein. The  greater  the  percentage  of 
such  snack  foods  in  a  diet,  the  more 
difficult  it  is  to  get  the  recommended 
amounts  of  other  nutrients. 

Generally,  the  higher  a  family's 
income  the  better  the  diet.  But,  income 
alone  does  not  assure  a  good  diet,  as 
indicated  by  the  1965  U.S.  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture  study.  It  showed 
that  9  percent  of  the  families  with 
incomes  of  $10,000  or  more  had  diets 
designated  as  poor,  but  36  percent  of 
the  persons  with  incomes  under  $3,000 
had  poor  diets.  Certainly  the  lower  the 


income  the  more  difficult  it  is  to  select 
a  diet  that  contains  a  recommended 
amount  of  all  nutrients. 

Nutrition  education  needs  to  be 
made  available  to  all  segments  of  the 
population.  Knowledge  as  to  what 
makes  up  a  good  diet  is  not  possessed 
by  everyone  in  spite  of  the  simplified 
Daily  Food  Guide  which  has  been 
given  wide  publicity.  The  U.S.  De- 
partment of  Agriculture  receives  many 
letters  from  students  as  well  as  adults 
asking  which  foods  they  need  to  eat 
each  day  in  order  to  have  a  good  diet. 

Indifferent  attitudes  toward  the 
foods  they  eat  accounts  for  poor  food 
habits  of  some  people.  Teenagers  tell 
us  they  are  too  busy  to  eat  meals  so 
they  grab  whatever  is  most  readily 
available.  Older  folks  may  lack  the 
energy  or  desire  to  prepare  meals  for 
one  or  two,  so  they  also  eat  whatever 
is  easiest.  Mothers  whose  children  eat 
lunch  at  school  and  whose  husbands 
eat  lunch  near  their  work  may  feel  it 
is  not  worth  while  to  fix  adequate 
lunches  for  themselves. 

An  increasing  number  of  companies 
have  closed  their  cafeterias  and  in- 
stalled vending  machines.  These  dis- 
pense sandwiches,  candy  bars,  crack- 
ers, cookies,  potato  chips,  and  many 
types  of  carbonated  beverages.  In 
some  cases  milk,  ice  cream,  and  fruit 
are  included.  The  lunch  selected  must 
depend  on  what  is  available.  By 
choosing  carefully  it  is  possible  to  get 
an  adequate  lunch  if  the  machines 
provide  fruits,  milk,  salads,  and  high- 
protein  sandwiches. 

We  know  which  segments  of  the 
population  are  likely  to  have  poor 
diets  and  many  of  the  contributing 
factors.  The  challenge  is  to  convince 
persons  with  poor  diets  to  improve 
their  food  habits.  Many  agencies  and 
organizations  have  programs  aimed 
at  improving  American  diets.  These 
include  education,  motivation,  and 
food  aid.  A  description  of  two  of  the 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture-State 
programs  follows. 

The  Cooperative  Extension  Service, 
since  its  inception,  has  devoted  many 
of  its  resources  to  nutrition  programs 


for  youth  and  adults.  A  wide  variety 
of  approaches  are  used  to  reach  its 
heterogeneous  clientele. 

Extension  home  economists  work 
with  the  4-H  Clubs,  Extension  home- 
maker  groups,  and  other  women's 
clubs  in  the  50  States,  the  District  of 
Columbia,  Puerto  Rico,  and  in  the 
Virgin  Islands.  More  time  is  devoted 
to  foods  and  nutrition  programs  than 
to  any  other  subject  matter  area.  Thus, 
over  the  years,  millions  of  families  who 
participate  in  educational  programs 
have  learned  how  to  select  and  prepare 
foods  for  a  good  diet. 

Much  of  the  teaching  is  done  by 
volunteer  leaders  who  greatly  multiply 
the  number  of  people  to  whom  nutri- 
tion information  can  be  given.  They 
are  taught  by  Extension  home  econo- 
mists, and  then  bring  the  information 
to  youth  and  adult  groups  in  their  own 
neighborhoods.  The  stimulation  of 
group  participation  and  the  commit- 
ment to  try  something  new  generated 
through  group  discussion  make  this 
an  effective  method  to  improve  food 
habits. 

Besides  its  programs  for  organized 
groups,  Extension  has  many  channels 
for  reaching  the  general  public — 
radio,  TV,  and  newspapers,  to  name 
a  few.  A  series  of  related  articles  on 
nutrition  using  one  or  all  mass  media 
at  about  the  same  time  is  an  effective 
way  to  reach  a  large  audience.  In 
some  States,  this  is  combined  with  a 
group  discussion  led  by  a  trained  vol- 
unteer, or  followup  letters  from  the 
Extension  home  economist.  In  some 
areas  programs  are  presented  in  an- 
other language,  such  as  Spanish  lan- 
guage broadcasts  in  the  Southwest. 

One  of  Extension's  exciting  new 
approaches  is  the  use  of  program  aides. 
In  an  attempt  to  improve  the  diets  of 
the  hard-to-reach  poor,  nonprofes- 
sional aides  are  trained  to  go  into 
disadvantaged  homes  and  teach  home- 
makers  better  ways  of  feeding  their 
families.  Thus  the  services  of  the  pro- 
fessional home  economist  are  extended 
to  many  more  of  the  poor  than  would 
otherwise  be  possible. 

An  expanded  nutrition  program  was 

321 


Nutrition  aides  in  Mississippi  prepare  foods  donated  by  the  USDA  to  needy  families,  before 
holding  neighborhood  demonstration  at  home  of  a  recipient. 


initiated  in  November  1968.  More 
than  5,000  poor  people  are  being  em- 
ployed by  the  Extension  Service  to  be 
aides.  They  will  work  with  both  rural 
and  urban  poor.  In  the  first  6  months 
of  the  program,  these  5,000  aides 
helped  around  200,000  families  to  a 
better  diet.  If  families  are  to  make 
lasting  improvements,  the  program 
must  be  carried  on  long  enough  to 
bring  about  a  change  in  attitude,  to 
develop  new  habit  patterns  and  new 
food  skills. 

The  food  problems  of  a  poor  family 
are  often  related  to  other  problems. 
Aides  are  being  trained  to  cope  with 
these  broad  concerns  of  the  family  as 

322 


well  as  their  specific  food  and  nutri- 
tion problems. 

To  be  effective,  training  is  essential 
for  aides.  They  must  be  taught  how 
to  make  working  home  visits.  If  the 
aides  come  from  a  middle-class  back- 
ground they  must  be  taught  what  to 
expect  in  a  disadvantaged  home.  The 
aides  must  be  helped  to  find  ways  to 
begin  in  a  poorly  kept  home  where 
there  are  several  small  hungry  chil- 
dren and  where  a  young  mother  is 
too  tired,  harried,  and  discouraged  to 
try  to  learn. 

If  unprepared,  an  aide  might  decide 
that  material  help  was  the  only  solu- 
tion. Although  aides  are  taught  about 


the  services  available  to  families  and 
how  to  make  referrals,  they  are  also 
trained  to  provide  education  and  to 
bring  hope  and  encouragement.  Ex- 
perience indicates  that  an  indigenous 
aide  can  communicate  well  with  the 
poor  and  quickly  establish  rapport. 

After  aides  have  been  instructed  in 
how  to  make  home  visits,  they  are 
taught  food  and  nutrition  subject  mat- 
ter and  given  an  opportunity  to  prac- 
tice in  role-playing  situations.  Lessons 
dealing  with  food  selection  and  prep- 
aration are  a  good  place  to  start,  since 
feeding  the  family  is  almost  always  a 
problem  with  low-income  homemakers. 

The  Extension  Service  has  developed 
a  series  of  lessons  to  use  in  training 
aides.  The  first  lesson  deals  with  what 
food  means  to  people.  It  often  comes 
as  a  surprise  to  the  aides  to  find  that 
many  people  do  not  sit  around  a  table 
to  eat  the  conventional  three  meals  a 
day.  In  this  lesson,  aides  are  made 
aware  of  some  factors  which  influence 
families'  food  habits,  such  as  the 
amount  of  money  they  can  spend  for 
food,  their  nationality,  the  part  of  the 
country  they  live  in,  their  religion,  the 
way  mothers  cook  and  serve  food,  and 


how  much  they  know  about  nutrition. 
After  this  introduction  the  aide  begins 
making  home  visits,  and  by  observa- 
tion and  talking  with  mothers,  learns 
something  about  the  eating  habits  of 
families  in  her  area. 

Education  materials  at  third-  and 
fourth-grade  reading  level  have  been 
prepared  for  use  with  families  where 
appropriate.  Publications  for  aides  are 
written  at  about  eighth-grade  level. 

Many  persons  receiving  donated 
foods  are  puzzled  about  the  use  of  dry 
milk,  bulgur,  and  some  other  unfamil- 
iar foods.  Extension  agents  and  trained 
volunteer  leaders  have  given  demon- 
strations and  distributed  thousands  of 
leaflets  to  recipients,  teaching  them 
not  only  how  to  store  and  use  the  food 
but  how  it  contributes  to  a  well-bal- 
anced diet.  Some  of  the  literature  has 
been  translated  into  Spanish. 

Many  families  eligible  for  participa- 
tion in  the  U.S.  Department  of  Agri- 
culture food  stamp  program  have  been 
helped  to  enroll  and  taught  how  to  use 
this  resource  wisely. 

Among  the  special  audiences  reached 
by  Extension  are: 

Young  Homemakers — The  person  who 
most  needs  information  on  nutrition 
for  a  young  family,  the  young  home- 
maker,  does  not  always  know  where 
to  go  for  authentic  information.  Many 
Extension  home  economists  hold  a 
series  of  meetings  at  a  convenient  time 
and  place  for  this  audience  with  much 
success.  The  number  of  programs  de- 
signed especially  for  them  is  increasing. 
Correspondence  and  TV  courses  have 
been  developed  for  those  housebound 
by  very  young  children. 

Teenage  Youth — Some  of  Extension's 
most  successful  programs  have  been  a 
series  of  meetings  for  teenagers.  In 
these  meetings,  nutrition  teaching  de- 
signed  to  improve  the  attitudes  and 


Student  in  a  consumer  food  economics  course 
shows  how  to  cut  meat  to  get  the  most  use  from 
it,  as  a  USDA  meat  specialist  checks  her 
technique.  About  40  attended  the  eight-week 
pilot  course,  with  weekly  two-hour  classes,  in 
the  inner  city  area  of  Washington,  D.C.  It  was 
designed  to  help  low-income  families  improve 
their  food  habits  and  get  maximum  benefit 
from  the  food  stamp  program. 


323 


practices  of  teenagers  has  been  com- 
bined with  social  activity  normal  to 
this  age  group. 

Working  Homemakers — Some  women 
may  not  have  time  to  attend  meetings. 
Specially  designed,  brief  information 
leaflets  are  made  available  at  such 
places  as  laundromats,  beauty  parlors, 
and  lunchrooms  in  places  where  the 
women  are  employed. 

Older  Folks — Many  older  folks  living 
on  small  incomes  eat  inadequate 
meals.  They  can  sometimes  be  reached 
through  organizations  such  as  "golden 
age"  clubs.  They  welcome  the  special 
attention  given  them  at  their  meetings, 
and  can  be  helped  to  improve  their 
eating  habits. 

Weight  Control  Groups — Although  at- 
taining normal  weight  is  the  desired 
goal,  it  is  more  important  for  group 
members  to  improve  their  diets  and 
develop  good  food  habits  for  their 
families  as  well  as  for  themselves. 
Because  the  groups  meet  for  a  series 
of  lessons,  nutrition  can  be  taught  in 
greater  depth. 

Professionals  of  Other  Agencies — Ex- 
tension conducts  many  nutrition  meet- 
ings for  professionals  in  related  fields 
who  have  litde  or  no  training  in 
nutrition,  such  as  teachers,  nurses, 
school  lunch  cooks,  the  workers  with 
Head  Start,  and  managers  of  nursing 
homes. 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
research  on  human  nutrition  (con- 
ducted in  the  Agricultural  Research 
Service  and  in  the  State  Agricultural 
Experiment  Stations)  strives  to  in- 
crease understanding  of  what  foods 
are  needed  and  in  what  amounts  and 


combinations  they  can  make  the 
greatest  nutritional  contribution  to 
normal  healthy  people.  The  research 
is  chiefly  in  three  broad  areas — 
nutrition,  food  science,  and  food 
consumption. 

If  the  public  is  to  benefit  from  this 
research,  USDA  must  interpret  its  re- 
sults in  terms  of  the  practical  problems 
of  the  family  food  manager,  the  in- 
dividual consumer,  the  teacher  or  Ex- 
tension worker,  or  the  Government 
agency  formulating  a  national  or  inter- 
national food  program.  Examples  of 
the  continuing  supply  of  these  direct- 
to-the-consumer  practical  guides  are: 
"Food  for  Fitness,"  "Food  and  Your 
Weight,"  "Food  for  the  Family  With 
Young  Children,"  "Family  Fare,"  and 
"Vegetables  in  Family  Meals." 

Important  as  these  publications  are, 
research  must  also  aid  the  professional 
and  lay  leaders  who,  through  educa- 
tion, welfare  service,  public  health, 
and  related  channels,  are  working 
with  the  ultimate  consumer — the  in- 
dividual, family,  or  institution.  A 
widely  used  aid  to  leaders  is  the  work 
on  food  plans  and  budgets  at  different 
cost  levels.  These  show  the  amount  of 
different  kinds  of  foods  which  together 
meet  the  nutritional  needs  of  indi- 
viduals and  families. 

The  plans  are  revised  periodically  to 
keep  them  in  line  with  new  knowledge 
of  nutritional  requirements,  the  nutri- 
tive value  of  foods,  changing  food 
habits,  and  the  relative  economy  of 
foods.  The  cost  of  the  food  budgets  is 
kept  up  to  date  using  the  retail  food 
prices  collected  by  the  Bureau  of  Labor 
Statistics. 


324 


Judith  A.  Pheil 


Can  Be  Easy, 
If  You  Plan 
It  Like  This 


Most  families  like  to  entertain  com- 
pany at  meals  in  their  homes — friends, 
business  associates,  neighbors,  rela- 
tives. Good  company  meals  may  be 
simple  but  should  be  delicious  and 
nicely  served  in  pleasant  surround- 
ings. With  a  little  careful  planning, 
entertaining  can  be  trouble  free  and 
enjoyable. 

Entertaining  will  be  easier  if  you 
know  your  guests — what  they  like 
and  what  they  don't  like,  and  if  you 
know  yourself — your  capabilities  and 
your  facilities  and  stay  within  them. 

Regardless  of  the  number  and  kind 
of  guests  or  the  type  of  service,  it  pays 
to  plan  family  or  company  meals  early 
and  carefully.  Like  planning  any 
other  meal,  you  will  include  a  protein 
dish  containing  meat,  poultry,  fish, 
eggs,  or  cheese;  a  fruit  or  a  salad; 
vegetables  and  bread;  dessert  and 
beverage.  Remember  the  importance 
of  contrast  in  flavor — something  sweet, 
something  tart,  and  something  bland, 
something  spicy;  color — follow  a  color 
scheme ;  texture — something  soft,  some- 
thing  crisp.  Use  edible  garnishes  to 
make  food  look  attractive,  but  avoid 
overdoing  it. 

Buffet  meals  usually  are  limited  to 


a  main  course,  dessert,  and  beverage. 
However,  a  first  course  of  juice  or 
soup  and  crackers  is  sometimes  served 
in  the  living  room  before  inviting 
guests  to  the  table. 

Eliminate  as  much  last-minute  prep- 
aration as  possible.  The  menu  may 
be  as  individual  and  as  informal  as 
the  service.  Substantial,  delicious  food, 
easily  prepared  and  attractively  served, 
will  make  you  the  "hostess  with  the 
mostest." 

Foods  that  can  be  prepared  several 
hours  or  days  ahead  of  time  are  worth 
considering.  Some  time-saving  sug- 
gestions are:  Meat  loaf,  scalloped  or 
casserole  dishes,  baked  ham  or  turkey, 
salads  and  desserts  that  can  be  molded 
or  arranged  in  individual  servings  and 
stored  for  a  few  hours,  fresh  vegetables 
prepared  and  stored  in  plastic  bags 
or  in  the  vegetable  crisper  in  the 
refrigerator. 

A  well-stocked  pantry  shelf  and 
home  freezer  are  important  to  the 
homemaker  as  she  plans  both  family 
and  company  meals.  Many  foods 
available  are  designed  to  save  the 
homemaker  time  and  energy.  There 
are  frozen  foods  that  provide  constant 
variety  in  fruits,  vegetables,  and 
meats;  frozen  precooked  foods  in 
endless  variety;  packaged  mixes  for 
everything  from  biscuits,  cakes  and 
dessert  toppings  to  meringues,  candy, 
and  casserole  dishes;  quick-cooking 
cereals;  hundreds  of  canned  foods; 
ready-to-eat  bakery  products.  The  job 
of  the  busy  homemaker  is  to  use  these 
foods  to  best  advantage  to  save  her 
the  most  time  and  energy  at  home. 

Keep  the  grocery  list  flexible  enough 
to  take  advantage  of  bargains  in  food 
your  family  and  friends  like,  and  buy 
in  quantity  to  save  money  and  shop- 
ping time. 

Planning  meals  and  spending  the 
food  dollar  go  hand  in  hand;  and  again 
with  careful  planning,  food  costs  can 
be  kept  to  a  minimum  and  meals  made 
just  as  attractive  and  nutritious.  Foods 


Judith  A.  Pheil  is  Food  and  Nutrition  Specialist, 
Cooperative  Extension  Service,  the  University  of 
Maryland,  College  Park. 


325 


in  convenient  forms  sometimes  cost 
more  money  but  the  homemaker  will 
spend  much  less  time  in  the  kitchen. 
Here  are  a  few  tips  to  make  meals 
look  and  taste  more  extravagant  than 
they  actually  are: 

•  Add  visual  and  taste  appeal  with 
attractive  color,  flavor,  and  texture 
combinations. 

•  Serve  hot  foods  hot  and  cold  foods 
well  chilled. 

•  Take  full  advantage  of  herbs  and 
spices  and  other  seasonings  and  oc- 
casionally experiment  with  new  recipes 
(when  you're  not  expecting  guests). 

•  Watch  magazines,  newspapers,  and 
television  for  ideas  to  "dress  up" 
favorite  foods. 

Intelligent  shopping  can  save  you 
money,  time,  and  energy.  A  shopping 
list  is  recommended.  If  you've  made 


meal  plans  for  the  week  including  the 
company  dinner,  putting  the  list  to- 
gether is  simple.  Look  over  your  menus 
and  write  down  the  items  you  will 
need.  Check  your  pantry  shelf,  re- 
frigerator, and  freezer  and  add  any 
staples  that  are  running  low.  If  you 
have  jotted  these  down  during  the 
week  as  the  supply  dwindled,  this  part 
of  the  list  will  only  take  a  minute.  List 
foods  in  the  order  they  are  stocked  on 
the  market  shelves.  Study  the  food  ads 
for  the  day  you  do  your  shopping,  and 
make  substitutions  or  additions  if  you 
wish.  Avoid  impulse  buying.  It  doesn't 
help  you  stay  within  your  budget. 

In  spite  of  all  best-laid  plans,  occa- 
sionally a  crowd  pops  in  unexpectedly. 
With  no  time  to  prepare  ahead,  a 
casserole  meal  is  great  when  you  can 
rely  on  ingredients  from  your  pantry 
shelf  and  freezer. 


Donuts  and  apple  cider  as  a  Halloween  treat. 


326 


This  menu  is  built  around  a  casse- 
role recipe : 

Chicken  Tuna  Bake 

Buttered  Green  Snap  Beans 

Cabbage  Slaw 

Muffins 

Peaches  with  Whipped  Topping 

Beverage 

CHICKEN  TUNA  BAKE 

8  to  10  servings 

8-ounce  package  cut  spaghetti  or  macaroni 

1  cup  chopped  onion 

%  cup  chopped  green  pepper 
%  cup  fat 
%  cup  flour 

2  cups  milk 

2  cans  condensed  cream  of  chicken  soup 
}i  cup  chopped  pimiento,  if  desired 
2  61/?.-  or  7-ounce  cans  flaked  tuna 
Slivered  almonds,  blanched 

Cook  pasta  as  directed  on  package; 
drain. 

Cook  the  chopped  onion  and  green 
pepper  in  hot  fat  until  tender.  Blend 
flour  into  fat.  Slowly  stir  in  the  milk. 
Cook  over  low  heat  until  thickened, 
stirring  constantly. 

Mix  in  cream  of  chicken  soup, 
chopped  pimiento,  tuna,  and  pasta. 
Pour  the  mixture  into  a  casserole,  top 
with  almonds,  and  bake,  uncovered, 
at  350°  F.  about  35  minutes. 

While  the  casserole  is  baking,  shred 
1  medium  head  of  cabbage  (1  pound 
cabbage  makes  about  5  cups)  and  toss 
it  with  a  dressing  made  by  mixing  % 
cup  sugar,  ){  cup  vinegar,  %  teaspoon 
salt,  and  %  cup  mayonnaise.  Chill  slaw 
before  serving. 

If  the  beans  are  frozen,  cook  them 
covered  in  a  small  amount  of  water. 
Canned  ones  will  only  need  to  be 
heated.  Add  a  small  dab  of  butter  or 
margarine  just  before  serving. 

You  may  want  to  ask  one  of  the 
children  or  a  guest  to  set  the  table 
while  you  open  canned  peaches  and 
arrange  them  in  dessert  dishes  and 
make  the  coffee.  Have  someone  pre- 
pare the  muffins  from  a  mix  for  you 
so  they  are  ready  to  pop  into  the  oven 
when  the  casserole  is  done.  By  the  time 
the  other  food  is  on  the  table,  the 
muffins  will  be  ready  to  serve  piping 
hot.  In  an  hour  or  so  you  can  have  a 


delicious  meal  ready  to  serve  8  to  10 
hungry  people,  and  it  will  have  been 
easy  and  great  fun. 

Don't  let  weekend  guests  keep  you 
in  the  kitchen.  Relax  and  enjoy  them 
by  planning  wisely.  Shop  ahead,  cook 
ahead  (as  much  as  possible),  and  use 
heat-and-serve  frozen,  canned,  and 
packaged  foods. 

Here  are  suggestions  for  meals  for 
Friday  night  through  Sunday  dinner: 

FRIDAY  NIGHT  SUPPER 

Oven-Fried  Chicken 
Creole  Rice 
Mixed  Green  Salad 
Fruit  Compote 
Beverage 

OVEN-FRIED  CHICKEN 

8  to  10  servings 

H  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper,  if  desired 

2  teaspoons  paprika 

}i  cup  butter  or  margarine 
2  cut-up,  ready-to-cook  chickens  (2  to  3 
pounds  each) 
or 
8  to  10  serving-size  chicken  pieces 

Preheat  oven  to  400°  F. 

Mix  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  paprika 
in  a  bag. 

Shake  each  piece  of  chicken  in  the 
bag  to  coat  well. 

Melt  fat  in  a  shallow  casserole  in 
the  oven.  Turn  pieces  of  chicken  in 
casserole  to  coat  with  fat. 

Lay  chicken  in  casserole  with  skin 
side  down. 

Bake  for  about  30  minutes  or  until 
golden  brown  on  underside. 

Turn  and  bake  about  20  minutes 
longer  or  until  tender. 

CREOLE  BAKED  RICE 

10  servings 

2  cups  packaged  precooked  rice 
4  cups  canned  tomatoes 
2  medium  onions,  chopped 

1  medium  green  pepper,  chopped 

2  teaspoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine,  melted 

Mix  all  of  ingredients  in  a  2^-  to 
3-quart  casserole;  cover. 

327 


Bake  in  oven  along  with  chicken 
at  400°  F.  for  30  to  45  minutes,  or 
until  mixture  thickens. 

FRUIT  COMPOTE 

Arrange  in  your  prettiest  bowl  and 
chill  a  combination  of  two  or  three 
fresh  or  canned  fruits —  a)  melon  balls, 
strawberries,  blueberries;  b)  peach 
halves,  green  grapes;  c)  mandarin 
oranges,  pineapple  chunks,  dark  cher- 
ries. Garnish  with  sprigs  of  mint. 

SATURDAY  BREAKFAST 

Chilled  Juice 
Coffee  Cake 
Individual  Cereal  Packs 
Milk  for  cereal 
Beverage 

This  is  a  simple  fix-it-yourself  break- 
fast. Set  the  table  the  night  before. 
Have  the  juice  ready  in  the  refriger- 
ator. Cover  coffee  cake,  which  you've 
made  ahead  of  time  from  a  mix,  to 
prevent  drying.  Provide  bowls  for 
cereal.  Have  a  pitcher  of  milk  ready 
in  the  refrigerator  for  cereal  or  bever- 
age. Keep  water  hot  on  a  candle 
warmer  for  making  instant  coffee. 

SATURDAY  LUNCH 

Clam  Chowder 

Saltines 

Celery  and  Carrot  Sticks 

Frozen  Cheesecake 

Beverage 

This  menu  is  just  a  matter  of  as- 
sembling. Prepare  cans  of  chowder 
and  serve  in  large  bowls.  Prepare 
celery  and  carrot  sticks  before  lunch 
and  keep  in  crisper  until  serving  time. 
Brew  a  pot  of  coffee  and  serve  with 
readymade  cheesecake. 

SATURDAY  NIGHT  BUFFET 

Hamburger  Stroganoff 

on 
Buttered  Noodles 

Tossed  Tomato,  Cucumber,  Endive  Salad 
French  Dressing 

Baked  Custard  with  Maple  Sirup 
Beverage 

This  is  an  easy  menu  to  serve  to 
any  number  of  guests.  You  may  want 
to  invite  several  couples. 

328 


HAMBURGER  STROGANOFF 

8  servings 

2  pounds  ground  beef 

1  cup  chopped  onion 

4  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

2  cans  condensed  cream  of  mushroom 
soup 

1  teaspoon  paprika 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Dash  pepper 

1  cup  dairy  sour  cream 

Cooked  noodles,  as  desired 

In  frying  pan,  brown  beef  and  cook 
onion  in  fat  until  tender;  stir  to 
separate  meat.  Add  soup  and  season- 
ings; simmer  5  minutes.  (Stroganoff 
can  be  prepared  this  far  a  day  ahead 
and  stored  in  refrigerator.) 

Just  before  serving  time  add  the  sour 
cream  and  heat  until  the  mixture  is 
simmering  hot.  Do  not  boil.  Serve  it 
over  noodles. 

SUNDAY  DINNER 

Broiled  Steak 

Baked  Potatoes 

Butter,  Margarine,  or  Sour  Cream 

Broccoli 

Hearts  of  Lettuce  with  Italian  Dressing 

Ice  Cream 

Beverage 

If  the  weather  is  nice,  the  steaks  can 
be  grilled  outdoors  and  dinner  eaten 
on  the  patio.  Allow  about  a  half  hour 
for  the  coals  to  be  hot  enough  for 
grilling.  Medium-sized  potatoes  will 
bake  in  the  oven  at  425°  F.  in  50  to 
60  minutes.  Wrapped  in  heavy  foil, 
the  potatoes  will  bake  on  the  outdoor 
grill  in  the  same  length  of  time.  Frozen 
broccoli  requires  about  15  minutes  on 
top  of  the  range.  Brown-and-serve  rolls 
will  heat  in  oven  or  on  the  grill  with 
potatoes  during  last  10  minutes  of  bak- 
ing time. 

Your  husband  will  probably  want 
to  grill  the  steaks — this  takes  10  to  30 
minutes,  depending  on  how  well  done 
you  like  them. 

And,  of  course,  the  ice  cream  will 
be  served  from  the  freezer. 

When  teens  give  a  party,  the  menu 
can  be  simple,  but  that  doesn't  mean 
the  food  can't  be  good  and  plentiful. 


How's  this  for  an  after-the-game 
supper — 

Baked  Ham 

Baked  Bean  Casserole 

Relishes 

Pumpkin  Tarts 

Apple  Juice 

Let  the  teenagers  prepare  the  food 
and  serve  it.  They  will  enjoy  their 
own  party. 

A  canned  ham  can  be  baked  ahead 
of  time,  canned  baked  beans  are  used 
for  the  bean  casserole,  and  canned 
pumpkin  for  the  tarts. 


BAKED  BEAN  CASSEROLE 

8  servings 

6  slices  bacon 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 

2  1-pound  cans  pork  and  beans 
1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

%  cup  brown  sugar,  packed 
%  cup  catsup 


Fry  bacon;  remove  from  frying  pan. 
Brown  onion  in  1  tablespoon  bacon 
drippings  in  frying  pan.  Add  beans, 
mustard,  sugar,  catsup,  and  crumbled 
bacon.  Mix  well.  Pour  into  casserole. 
Bake  uncovered  at  300°  F.  for  1  hour. 

PUMPKIN  TARTS 

8  tarts 

Pastry  for  one  9-inch  double  crust  pie 

3  eggs  slightly  beaten 

2  cups  canned  pumpkin 

%  cup  brown  sugar,  packed 

}i  teaspoon  salt 

IK  teaspoons  pumpkin  pie  spice 

l'j  cups  milk 

1  6-ounce  can  evaporated  milk 

Roll  pastry  into  eight  6-inch  circles. 
Fit  into  large  tart  pans  or  muffin  tins. 
In  a  large  bowl  mix  eggs,  pumpkin, 
sugar,  salt,  and  spice.  Stir  in  milk  and 
evaporated  milk.  Pour  into  tart  shells, 
and  bake  at  400°  F.  for  40  minutes  or 
until  set. 


Caramel  snowballs  may  be  prepared  in  advance,  and  served  to  young  guests  with  quickly  made 
coffee  Mexican  style.  For  four  to  five  medium  apples,  melt  down  a  pound  of  caramels  in  top  of 
double  boiler.  Impale  apples  on  ice  cream  sticks,  dip  in  caramel  when  it  has  become  smooth 
sauce,  and  then  into  flaked  coconut.  Place  apples  on  wax  paper  and  chill  a  few  minutes  in  refrig- 
erator until  the  caramel  is  firm.  Fix  the  beverage  by  preparing  equal  amounts  of  hot  coffee  and  hot 
chocolate  separately.  Pour  coffee  and  chocolate  together  into  mugs. 


329 


Charlotte  M.  Dunn 

Picnic  Pointers 
and  Frill-Free 
Ideas  for  Any 
Outdoor  Meal 


There  comes  a  time  when  the  urge 
for  a  change  of  scenery  stirs  us  all. 
Thoughts  of  food  follow  naturally.  The 
lusty  aroma  of  outdoor  cooking  tempts 
an  appetite  at  any  time.  The  menu 
doesn't  need  a  lot  of  frills.  A  correctly 
planned  menu  is  flexible — just  switch 
main  courses  and  you  still  have  a 
balanced  meal  to  satisfy  hearty  appe- 
tites of  fresh  air  diners. 

Planning  the  outdoor  meal  comes 
first.  Be  it  a  picnic,  a  campfire  cookout, 
or  a  meal  on  an  outdoor  grill  or  a 
fireplace,  the  foods  must  fill  the  day's 
nutritional  needs  with  an  appealing 
variety  of  flavor,  texture,  and  color. 

For  family  and  company  meals 
you  serve  outdoors,  consider  two  im- 
portant stages  in  the  preparation. 
The  first,  vital  to  the  enjoyment  of 
the  occasion  by  host  and  hostess  as 
well  as  guests,  is  the  planning  and 
organization  of  work.  Prepare  as  many 
foods  as  possible  in  your  kitchen 
before  carrying  to  the  porch,  patio,  or 
backyard.  Second,  observe  the  food 
preparation  and  the  cooking  practices 
necessary  for  serving  quality  outdoor 
meals,  both  in  taste  and  in  nutritive 
value. 

Dewy  morning  air  mixed  generously 

330 


with  the  unmistakable  aroma  of  food 
can  only  mean  breakfast  in  the  open. 
Cook  anything  from  delicious  roasted 
apples  filled  with  orange  marmalade 
and  topped  with  chopped  nuts  (pre- 
pared, wrapped  in  foil,  and  stored  in 
the  refrigerator  the  night  before)  to 
crisp  brown  sausages  with  eggs  and 
a  buttery  hot  bread. 

Hot  breads  offer  a  variety  of  choices. 
Muffins,  baked  the  day  before,  can 
be  split  and  warmed  in  foil.  Bread 
slices  are  tasty  spread  with  softened 
butter  and  poppy  seeds,  or  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Wrap  slices  in  foil, 
leaving  an  opening  for  steam  to 
escape,  and  heat  for  20  minutes  on  the 
grill,  turning  to  heat  evenly.  A  home 
prepared  master  mix  or  ready  pre- 
pared biscuit  mix  gives  you  a  chance 
to  surprise  the  family  with  a  kolochy. 
Add  1  cup  milk  to  2  cups  biscuit  mix, 
stir  to  a  soft  dough,  and  drop  biscuits 
on  a  lightly  buttered  pan.  Press  a 
hollow  in  the  center  of  each,  fill  with 
tart  jelly,  and  sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese.  Bake  10  to  15  minutes  in  a 
400°  F.  oven,  a  reflector,  or  a  barbecue 
grill  unit. 

A  barbecue-brunch  on  a  sunny 
weekend  can  be  a  meal  to  remember. 
Start  with  a  platter  of  assorted  melon 
wedges  . .  .  iced  honeydew,  cantaloup, 
and  watermelon.  Then  stir  up  a 
skillet  of  superb  scrambled  eggs.  When 
the  eggs  are  partially  cooked,  add 
grated  cheese  (%  to  1  cup  for  8  eggs). 
Serve  on  hot  buns  or  rolls,  topped  with 
a  touch  of  bacon  or  ham.  For  a  flavor 
change,  try  slices  of  smoked  pork  butt 
capped  with  broiled  pineapple  slices. 
The  smoked  pork  butt  can  be  cooked 
and  chilled  ahead  of  time,  ready  to  be 
sliced  and  broiled  at  the  cookout  site. 

Hamburgers  remain  a  favorite  for 
outdoor  cooking  and  eating.  Tasty, 
nutritious,  low  in  cost,  and  easy  to 
fix,  this  popular  choice  is  a  natural 
for  new  flavor  combinations.  Turn  the 
tasty  patties  into  delicious  blueburgers. 
Top  the  browned  hamburgers  with  a 

Charlotte  M.  Dunn  is  Extension  Specialist  in 
Foods  and  Nutrition,  Cooperative  Extension  Pro- 
grams,  University  Extension,  The  University  of 
Wisconsin,  Madison. 


generous  spoonful  of  blue  cheese  and 
continue  cooking  until  cheese  melts 
slightly.  Or  you  can  fashion  double- 
burgers.  Place  blue  cheese  between 
two  uncooked  meat  patties,  press 
together,  and  cook.  Use  your  imagina- 
tion. Other  combinations  include 
grated  Cheddar  cheese,  pickle  relish, 
and  peanut  butter,  and  grated  cheese 
and  grated  onion.  Mixtures  tucked 
between  two  patties  require  a  little 
longer  cooking  so  the  ingredients  can 
melt  and  mingle  with  the  beef.  Be  sure 
to  use  USDA  graded  lean  beef  so 
there  will  be  a  minimum  of  shrinkage. 

The  old  black  cast  iron  skillet  is 
handy  for  preparing  and  serving  a 
fresh  air  lunch  on  the  porch  or  patio. 
Try  chili  and  cheese  dumplings.  Add 
%  cup  grated  cheese  to  your  basic 
biscuit  mix  recipe.  Drop  spoonsful  on 
top  of  simmering  chili  and  cook  until 
dumplings  are  done. 

After  the  successful  fisherman  comes 
home  with  the  day's  catch,  why  not 
try  a  fish  boil?  You'll  need^  a  large 
kettle.  For  a  group,  a  metal  washtub 
or  cast  iron  kettle  is  suitable.  Use  at 
least  \%  gallons  of  boiling  water  and 
H  cup  salt  for  8  to  16  medium  un- 
peeled,  scrubbed  potatoes.  Cook  at 
least  45  minutes.  When  potatoes  are 
nearly  tender,  add  fish.  Use  large 
fish,  about  4  pounds  each,  such  as 
lake  trout  or  whitefish.  Cut  into  good 
sized  chunks  (4  pieces  per  fish).  Fish 
pieces  can  be  placed  in  a  basket  for 
easy  removal.  Cook  only  until  fish  is 
tender — 10  to  15  minutes.  Serve  fish 
immediately  with  potatoes  left  in  the 
jacket,  split  and  topped  with  plenty 
of  butter.  Coleslaw,  relishes,  and  rolls 
can  complete  the  meal. 

Outdoor  entertaining  is  a  natural 
for  young  people.  Let  them  experience 
the  adventure  of  planning.  The  less 
preparation  the  better.  For  an  oldtime 
favorite,  use  the  cast  iron  skillet  to 
heat  chili.  Grill  frankfurters.  Spoon 
heated  chili  over  buttered- toasted  buns, 
cover  with  grated  Cheddar  cheese  or 
slice  and  top  with  a  frankfurter. 

Slash  a  weiner  almost  through 
lengthwise;  fill  opening  with  a  bit  of 
cheese  and  grill.  Or  wrap  the  cheese- 


filled  weiner  with  a  bacon  strip  and 
then  grill  it. 

Doughboys  are  great  fun  in  camp, 
at  the  beach,  or  right  in  your  own 
backyard.  Prepare  a  stick  about  1  inch 
in  diameter;  green  wood  is  preferred. 
Strip  the  bark  off  of  6  inches  on  one 
end.  Pour  several  cups  of  biscuit  mix 
into  a  plastic  bag;  turn  top  of  bag 
down  to  make  cuff.  Take  the  peeled 
stick  and  form  a  well  in  the  center  of 
the  biscuit  mix.  Pour  in  enough  milk 
or  water  to  form  a  sticky  dough.  Stir 
gently  with  stick  until  liquid  picks  up 
enough  biscuit  mix  to  form  soft  ball 
around  the  stick  end.  Secure  dough 
ball  on  stick  by  pressing  gently  with 
hand.  Hold  over  coals,  turning  slowly 
to  bake  ball  through  and  brown  evenly 
(about  7  minutes).  Doughboy  is  done 
when  it  slips  easily  from  the  stick. 
Eat  piping  hot  with  butter,  jam,  or 
jelly — or  fill  with  "wimpy"  mixture  or 
roasted  weiner. 

To  make  a  wimpy  filling,  melt  1 
tablespoon  fat,  add  1  medium  chopped 
onion,  and  cook  until  golden  colored. 
Add  1  pound  of  ground  lean  beef  and 
cook  until  gray  in  color.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  then  add  1  to  \}{  cups 
shredded  cheese  and  stir  until  melted. 
Serve  mixture  in  doughboys  or  buns. 

Safety  Tips.  With  warm  weather  and 
the  exodus  outdoors,  the  potential 
danger  of  food  poisoning  accompanies 
each  outdoor  meal — be  it  a  backyard 
cookout  or  a  family  reunion  potluck. 
Precaution  and  commonsense  can 
prevent  a  disaster.  Germs  capable  of 
causing  severe  gastrointestinal  upsets 
thrive  in  picnic  foods  which  have  not 
been  adequately  refrigerated.  Food 
is  safest  at  temperatures  above  140°  F. 
and  below  45°  F.  If  possible,  food 
should  be  served  immediately  after 
cooking.  Careful  handling  and  prepa- 
ration of  food  are  important. 

Foods  to  be  served  cold  should  be 
kept  cold,  and  hot  foods  should  be 
kept  hot.  Food  taken  on  picnics  often 
stays  just  warm,  not  cold  or  hot,  for 
several  hours.  This  moderate  tem- 
perature is  ideal  for  the  rapid  repro- 
duction of  micro-organisms  which 
produce  harmful  toxins. 

331 


Cooking  over  a  fire  (left)  in  a  precast  concrete  ring,  at  a  Minnesota  recreational  development. 
(Right)  Barbecuing  chicken  and  other  meat. 


Bacteria  grow  best  in  nonacidic 
foods  like  meats,  fish,  poultry  items, 
eggs,  dairy  products,  and  foods  made 
from  them.  Particularly  susceptible 
are  recipes  of  finely  chopped  foods 
such  as  chicken  salad,  other  meat  or 
egg  sandwich  fillings,  and  casseroles. 
These  foods  have  more  surface  area 
where  bacteria  can  grow.  Also,  in 
preparation  these  foods  are  often 
handled  more.  Most  sandwich  fillings 
and  salads  are  not  reheated  after 
preparation.  If  this  is  the  case  they 
must  be  kept  cold  until  serving  time. 

There  are  inexpensive  ways  to  keep 
foods  cold — properly  packed  in  an 
ice  chest  or  in  dry  ice  packs.  Empty 
coffee  cans  or  other  containers  with 
tight  fitting  lids  can  be  filled  with 
water  and  frozen  for  use  in  the  ice 
chest;  a  plastic  bag  filled  with  ice 
cubes  placed  in  a  sturdy  container  will 
cool  foods  and  the  cubes  can  be  used 
at  campsite.  When  using  ice,  food 
should  be  placed  to  touch  the  con- 
tainer. Cubes,  loose  or  in  plastic  bags, 
and  ice  in  cartons  should  be  distributed 
evenly  throughout  the  cooler. 

An  easy-to-make  cooler-carrier  re- 
quires two  cardboard  boxes,  with  one 

332 


smaller  than  the  other.  Put  at  least 
a  half  inch  thickness  of  newspapers  on 
the  bottom  of  the  larger  box,  and  set 
the  smaller  one  inside.  Line  news- 
papers between  the  sides  of  the  two 
boxes,  put  in  chilled  food  and  ice, 
then  close  the  small  box  lid.  Place 
another  layer  of  newspapers  and 
fasten  down  the  outside  box  lid.  Keep 
cooler  out  of  direct  sunlight. 

Picnics.  A  "picnic"  has  a  special 
meaning  for  most  people.  Sometimes 
the  entire  meal  is  prepared  in  the 
kitchen,  often  some  foods  are  cooked 
ahead  while  others  are  prepared  at 
the  cookout  site.  A  fun  meal  for  the 
entire  family,  including  mother,  is  one 
prepared  entirely  at  the  picnic  area. 

Picnic  meals  prepared  partially  or 
completely  at  the  site  require  some 
type  of  cooking  apparatus,  such  as  a 
temporary  firebox  of  bricks  or  stones 
piled  on  each  other,  or  a  permanent 
fireplace,  or  a  portable  grill.  Menu 
ideas  for  this  type  of  meal  include 
cranberry  juice,  broiled  ham,  potatoes 
baked  in  hot  ashes,  a  combination 
vegetable  salad,  whole  wheat  rolls 
and  milk,  or  chops  or  steaks,  buns, 
green  salad,  sponge  cake,  and  berries. 


Food  for  a  plan-ahead  picnic  can 
be  frozen,  then  prepared  at  the  cook- 
out  site.  Try  a  barbecued  chicken, 
vegetable  bundle,  rolls,  and  no-bake 
brownies  or  spiced  bananas.  Marinate 
chicken  in  your  favorite  sauce,  bake 
for  30  minutes,  cool  in  refrigerator, 
wrap  in  foil  and  freeze.  At  the  picnic, 
place  chicken  on  slow  fire  and  cook 
for  30  minutes,  basting  and  turning 
occasionally,  until  meat  is  tender. 
For  the  vegetable  bundle,  break  up  a 
10-ounce  package  of  frozen  peas  and 
corn.  Mound  on  a  large  square  of 
heavy-duty  foil.  Add  tiny  pickled 
onions,  drained,  or  1  tablespoon  in- 
stant minced  onion,  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper.  Twist  foil  corners  together 
tighdy  and  freeze  until  picnic  time. 
Place  bundle  on  hot  grill.  Cook  25 
minutes,  remove  from  grill,  and  open 
gently  to  allow  steam  to  escape.  Stir 
before  serving. 

Spiced  bananas  are  good  cooked  on 
the  spot.  Allow  %  to  %  banana  per 
person,  peel  and  place  on  a  square  of 
heavy  foil.  Brush  with  lemon  juice; 
sprinkle  with  or  roll  in  brown  sugar, 
dust  with  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  and 
dot  with  butter.  Put  bananas  on  the 
grate  when  you  sit  down  to  eat  since 
they  must  only  heat  through.  Or 
combine  the  ingredients,  split  banana 
lengthwise,  and  spread  mixture  be- 
tween the  halves.  Wrap  foil  securely 
around  bananas,  twisting  ends.  Barbe- 
cue on  grill  7  to  9  minutes,  or  on  coals 
4  to  5  minutes.  Turn  2  or  3  times  to 
heat  evenly. 

Frozen  fish  fillets  and  vegetables 
can  be  safely  transported  to  picnic 
grounds.  Spread  fish  with  tartar  sauce, 
then  wrap  in  foil  ready  to  cook  on  the 
grill.  Cook  foil-wrapped,  seasoned, 
and  cheese-topped  broccoli  spears  at 
the  same  time.  Pronto  picnic  salad  can 
be  made  of  canned  peas  or  carrots, 
hard-cooked  eggs,  finely  cut  crisp  raw 
vegetables,  broken  nut  meats,  and  a 
savory  salad  dressing.  Toasted  frank- 
furter rolls  can  be  the  bread  choice. 
Fresh  fruits  eaten  out  of  hand  and  a 
beverage  complete  the  meal. 

Food-in-foil  individual  servings  or 
whole  meals  are  easy  and  convenient. 


The  foil  "dishes"  are  simply  tossed 
into  a  litter  basket.  When  using  foil 
for  outdoor  cookery  be  sure  it's  the 
heavy-duty  kind. 

Hamburgers  and  vegetables  in  foil 
make  a  quick  meal-in-one.  Place  a 
hamburger  patty,  onion  slice,  ){ medi- 
um potato,  and  ){  carrot  (slice  vege- 
tables very  thin)  on  large  foil  square. 
Season  to  taste  and  place  )i  slice  of 
bacon  on  top.  Seal  with  drugstore 
wrap,  and  roll  ends  to  make  a  drip- 
proof  package.  Place  over  hot  coals 
and  cook  15  to  20  minutes  or  until 
done.  Fold  back  foil  to  serve. 

Another  package  meal  features  slices 
of  canned  ham  spread  with  marma- 
lade, canned  sweet  potatoes,  and 
orange  slices,  arranged  on  a  double 
thickness  of  heavy-duty  foil.  Sprinkle 
with  slivered  almonds.  Seal  package, 
heat  on  grill  over  medium  hot  coals 
for  about  30  minutes. 

Frankfurters,  onion  slices,  canned 
white  potatoes,  and  a  tomato  half 
sprinkled  with  grated  cheese  in  foil 
package  will  only  take  15  to  20  minutes 
to  grill. 

Potato  salad,  if  made  ahead,  must 
be  kept  well  chilled.  Try  taking  cold 
ingredients  in  separate  containers  in 
the  cooler  and  prepare  the  salad  just 
before  serving. 

Salad  greens  should  be  prepared  at 
home  and  stored  in  plastic  wrap,  or  in 
a  plastic  bag  ready-to-serve,  or  in  the 
bowl  you  plan  to  serve  from.  Cover 
tightly  and  keep  cold.  Add  tomatoes, 
cucumbers  and  other  salad  items  when 
it's  eating  time. 

Picnic  desserts  are  no  problem. 
Cake,  cookies,  fresh  fruits  such  as 
watermelon,  peaches,  fresh  plums, 
grapes,  and  pears  are  alltime  favorites. 
Wash  fruits  at  home  and  use  as  a 
picnic  centerpiece  until  dessert  time. 

Barbecues.  The  term  "barbecue" 
originally  referred  to  a  whole  animal 
roasted  or  broiled  in  its  entirety  for  a 
feast,  or  the  feast  at  which  such  meat 
is  served.  The  origin  is  obscure,  but 
it  probably  derives  from  the  French 
barbe-a-gueue,  meaning  "from  snout 
to  tail."  The  institution  of  the  barbe- 
cue is  probably  of  southern  origin. 

333 


It  is  known  that  the  word  was  used  in 
Virginia  before  1700. 

In  recent  years,  the  outdoor  prep- 
aration of  meals  has  become  increas- 
ingly popular,  and  the  principle  of 
the  elegant  barbecue  feast  has  been 
simplified  to  fit  the  smallest  suburban 
yard.  The  home  barbecue  varies  from 
a  hooded  or  open  portable  charcoal 
grill  to  an  elaborately  constructed 
fireplace  with  ovens  and  flues. 

If  you  are  a  beginner,  it  is  safe  to 
try  hamburgers,  frankfurters,  or  steaks 
and  chops.  They  are  easily  prepared 
on  the  grill  and  the  cooking  technique 
is  the  same  as  indoors.  Steaming 
servings  of  string  beans  or  sweet  corn, 
together  with  a  bowl  of  mixed  green 
salad,  can  complete  the  menu. 

Chicken  is  easily  barbecued.  Split 
a  broiler  down  the  back  and  cook  on 
the  grill,  broiling  the  bony  side  first 
and  then  the  skin  side.  Experiment 
with  various  basting  sauces.  If  the 
grill  or  fireplace  has  a  spit,  a  whole 
chicken  may  be  broiled  and  the  sauce 
swabbed  on  during  cooking. 

Shake  hands  with  a  whole  chicken 
or  turkey  to  tell  when  it's  done:  About 
20  minutes  before  roasting  period  is 
up,  snip  the  cord  that  holds  drumsticks 
to  the  spit  rod  so  heat  can  reach  all 
parts  of  the  bird.  Grasp  end  of  drum- 
stick with  paper  towels;  when  leg 
moves  easily,  the  bird  is  done. 

Marinating  less  tender  beef  cuts 
such  as  blade  or  arm  chuck,  round  or 
flank  steak,  will  tenderize  meat  and 
improve  the  flavor.  A  marinade  is  a 
mixture  of  oil,  vinegar  and/or  lemon 
juice,  and  seasonings,  salt,  herbs, 
garlic,  onions,  or  seasoned  salt  may  be 
used.  Marinate  meat  in  refrigerator 
for  24  hours  or  at  room  temperature 
for  2  hours  before  cooking.  Gutting 
narrow  grooves  or  gashes  part  way 
through  the  food's  surface  (scoring) 
permits  marinade  to  penetrate  meat. 
Seasoned  and  nonseasoned  commercial 
tenderizers  are  available.  Follow  direc- 
tions on  label.  Marinade  can  also  be 
used  to  baste  meats.  Basting,  usually 
done  to  increase  the  moisture  of  foods 
while  cooking,  will  add  a  distinctive 
flavor  to  meat. 

334 


The  array  of  meat  available  for 
outdoor  cooking  goes  beyond  steaks 
and  chicken  to  include  chops,  kabobs, 
hamburgers,  rotisserie  roasts,  and 
frankfurters.  Meat  selection  is  easier  if 
you  look  for  the  U.S.  Government 
inspection  stamp  for  wholesomeness 
and  take  advantage  of  grades  for 
quality  guidance. 

It  is  necessary  to  know  meat  cuts 
to  guide  you  in  methods  of  outdoor 
cookery.  When  the  choice  is  steak, 
decide  whether  you'd  like  individual 
ones  like  club,  strip,  top  loin,  T-bone, 
porterhouse,  delmonico,  tenderloin 
(filet  mignon),  or  a  steak  to  serve 
several,  such  as  a  thick  sirloin.  These 
come  in  boneless  styles  as  well  as 
wedge,  pin,  or  flat  bone  types. 

For  a  lazy  way  of  cooking,  choose  a 
cut  for  your  rotisserie.  A  rack  of 
spareribs  "threaded"  accordion  fash- 
ion on  the  rod,  a  boneless  ham  roll, 
pork  rolled  Boston  shoulder,  a  rolled 
pork  loin,  and  boneless  rolled  lamb 
shoulder  are  suggestions. 

The  delmonico  (rib  eye)  roast  is  the 
most  elegant  beef  cut  for  the  rotisserie. 
Other  high  quality  beef  cuts  which 
respond  to  rotisserie  roasting  include 
rolled  rump,  sirloin  tip,  or  a  rolled 
chuck,  often  called  the  English  or 
Boston  cut. 

Many  stores  feature  rolled,  boned 
lamb  roasts.  Although  lamb  supplies 
are  usually  low  in  the  summer,  ideas 
for  outdoor  cooking  abound.  Experts 
report  there  are  30  lamb  cuts  for 
backyard  banquets. 

Kabob  your  dinner.  It's  a  gay 
sight  to  see  the  colorful  food  chunks 
strung  on  skewers  sizzling  on  the  grill. 
You  can  skewer  anything  that  you 
can  broil. 

For  uniform  cooking,  give  each 
kind  of  food  its  own  skewer.  String 
cubes  of  beef  or  lamb  on  one.  Season 
and  brush  with  oil,  melted  butter,  or 
french  dressing.  Thread  scrubbed  po- 
tatoes on  another,  whole  onions  on 
a  third.  Leave  jackets  on  vegetables 
and  you  won't  have  to  baste  them. 
For  quick  kabobs  simmer  a  sweet-sour 
sauce  while  you  thread  skewer  with 
chunks    of   canned    luncheon    meat, 


green  pepper,  and  pineapple.  Cherry 
tomatoes  can  be  used  to  finish  off 
skewer.  Brush  with  sauce,  broil  or  grill 
just  until  foods  are  heated  through. 

Lamb,  canned  meat,  precooked 
sausages,  beef  cubes  are  all  kabob 
naturals.  Combine  with  olives,  pickles, 
mushroom  caps,  tomatoes,  pineapple 
chunks,  orange  segments,  green  pep- 
per, and  onions. 

For  smoke  cookery,  use  a  charcoal 
fire  in  barbecue  grill  with  a  hood  or 
a  lid  that  closes  to  make  smoke.  Soak 
hickory  chips  in  water  or  dampen 
hickory  sawdust.  Let  charcoal  fire  burn 
down  to  low-even  heat.  Then  add 
damp  hickory  or  fruit  woods.  Place 
food  on  grill  or  spit.  Cover  barbecue 
tightly  and  finish  cooking.  This  is  a 
slow  process.  Liquid  smoke  can  be 
brushed  on  the  meat.  Smoked  salt  can 
be  sprinkled  on  before  cooking  or 
added  to  the  barbecue  sauce. 

Because  steak,  hamburgers,  chicken, 
spareribs,  the  sausage  products,  and 
hot  dogs  are  today's  most  popular 
headliners  for  barbecue  menus,  the 
outdoor  chef  strives  to  make  his 
specialty  unique.  Palate-teasing  flavor 
combinations  in  the  barbecue  sauce 
or  marinade  can  establish  a  gourmet 
reputation.  Apply  sauce  lavishly  while 
the  meat  is  cooking,  and  prepare  extra 
sauce  to  serve  with  the  meat. 

A  tasty  sauce  for  hamburgers  is 
prepared  from  a  package  of  onion 
soup  mix,  1  cup  of  russian  dressing, 
)i  to  )i  cup  water,  and  dry  mustard 
to  taste.  Simmer  10  minutes  before 
using  sauce. 

Another  quick  barbecue  sauce  can 
be  made  with  1  can  condensed  tomato 
soup,  and  sweet  pickle  relish,  chopped 
onion,  brown  sugar,  vinegar,  and 
Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste.  Simmer 
10  minutes  or  until  onion  is  cooked. 
An  effective  marinade  that  can  also  be 
used  to  baste  meat  contains  1  cup 
of  Burgundy  wine,  1  small  garlic  clove 
(minced),  1  tablespoon  apiece  of 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  each  of  prepared  horse- 
radish, minced  parsley,  prepared  mus- 
tard, and  margarine  or  butter,  %  tea- 
spoon each  of  oregano  and  pepper, 


1  teaspoon  salt,  1  small  onion  (minced). 
Combine  ingredients  and  heat  until 
table  fat  melts.  Cool.  Pour  sauce  over 
steak.  Chill  in  refrigerator  for  at  least 
8  hours,  turning  steak  several  times. 
Remove  steak  and  strain  sauce,  keep- 
ing solid  material  as  well  as  liquid. 
Broil  steak  on  one  side,  basting  occa- 
sionally with  liquid.  Turn,  spread  top 
surface  with  solids  from  sauce. 

Although  leaping  flames  may  be 
picturesque,  the  secret  of  successful 
barbecuing  is  a  solid  bed  of  glowing 
coals.  Whether  charcoal,  wood,  or 
other  fuel  is  used,  light  the  fire  at  least 
30  minutes  ahead  of  time  so  it  will 
burn  down  to  ash-gray  coals  before 
cooking  starts. 

With  modern  grills,  you  can  adjust 
the  cooking  rack  or  grid  to  control 
heat.  The  center  of  the  rack  is  hotter 
than  the  outside,  so  overbrowning  can 
be  avoided  by  moving  food  to  the  grill 
edges.  This  is  necessary  for  small  pieces 
like  legs,  wings,  and  thighs  of  chicken. 

On  nonadjustable  grills  or  with 
outdoor  fires,  you  can  reduce  heat  by 
spreading  the  coals  or  by  occasionally 
sprinkling  them  with  water.  To  tame 
any  fat-fed  flames,  keep  a  water-filled 
clothes  sprinkler  container  or  clean 
whiskbroom  and  water  container  close 
at  hand. 

The  amount  of  charcoal  differs  with 
your  equipment  and  the  food  you  plan 
to  barbecue.  Large  roasts  will  require 
more  charcoal  than  broiled  foods  such 
as  steaks  or  burgers.  A  shallow  fire  is 
simple  to  control,  fine  for  broiling. 

Often  the  fireboxes,  fireplaces,  and 
grills  can  be  lined  with  a  sheet  of  foil 
which  will  give  off  more  heat  and 
simplifies  ash  disposal. 

There  are  several  ways  to  keep  your 
grill  from  burning  out.  A  1-inch  layer 
of  vermiculite  can  be  placed  on  the 
foil.  This  absorbs  fat  drippings  and 
eliminates  fiareup.  When  using  a 
rotisserie,  shape  an  aluminum  foil  drip 
catching  pan  to  fit  under  the  meat,  or 
you  can  use  gravel  or  insulating  pellets 
layered  around  1  inch  deep  on  the 
bottom  of  the  grill  to  help  prevent 
burning  out  the  firebox.  After  half  a 
dozen  barbecues,  clean  the  gravel  in 

335 


hot  water  to  remove  fat  drippings,  and 
spread  out  to  dry  thoroughly.  If  your 
firebox  is  perforated  on  the  bottom, 
there  will  be  no  need  for  gravel. 

You  will  add  to  the  life  of  your  grill 
top  if  you  wait  until  cooking  time  to 
place  hood  or  cover  down.  Remove  it 
(with  asbestos  gloves)  right  after  use. 
For  easy  cleaning,  the  grate  can  be 
swathed  with  wet  paper  towels  or 
newspaper  while  you  eat.  Later  a  few 
swipes  will  clean  the  entire  grill;  use 
a  scouring  pad  for  stubborn  spots. 
After  each  use  the  grate  and  frame 
should  be  cleaned  carefully  so  fat  and 
food  particles  don't  become  baked  on. 

Camping.  Well  planned  meals  are 
essential  to  a  successful  camping  trip. 
Itemize  foods,  equipment,  and  sup- 
plies needed.  Avoid  planning  meals 
using  bulky  or  heavy  foods.  Pack  with 
imagination — bulky  food  in  kettles 
and  pans,  liquids  in  small  botdes  with 
screw-on  caps,  plastic  bags  to  carry 
and  store  vegetables,  baked  goods, 
etc.  Don't  forget  a  first  aid  kit  and 
heavy  cotton  gloves  that  will  serve  as 
potholders. 

Written  lists  are  a  camper's  best 
friend.  Be  sure  you  have  included 
equipment  such  as  unbreakable  plates, 
cups  and  bowls,  knives,  forks,  spoons, 
cooking  spoons  and  cooking  knives  or 
forks,  tongs,  turner,  can  and  botde 
opener,  pans,  ketdes,  frying  pans,  con- 
tainers for  dishwashing  and  scalding, 
matches  in  a  metal  container,  pot 
scrubber,  detergent  (liquid  serves  a 
multipurpose),  and  a  portable  grate. 
This  miscellaneous  equipment  can  be 
kept  in  a  picnic  kit.  Revise  the  list  to 
meet  your  family's  needs. 

The  day  has  come  when  campers 
can  "rough  it"  in  nature's  backyard, 
near  home,  or  in  a  remote  mountain 
area,  yet  still  enjoy  the  convenience  of 
a  variety  of  foods.  No  matter  where 
you  camp,  the  food  needs  to  be  kept 
clean  and  cold. 

When  refrigeration  or  cooling  facili- 
ties are  lacking,  depend  on  canned, 
packaged,  and  freeze-dried  foods.  For 
a  long  camping  trip,  plan  some  meals 
that  come  out  of  the  package.  Have 
others  that  can  be  cooked  over  an 

336 


open  fire.  Dispose  of  leftovers  if  there 
isn't  a  way  to  keep  them  cold  until 
another  meal.  The  veteran  camper 
stores  all  fresh  or  opened  food  in  foil, 
in  a  safe  place  out  of  temptation  from 
wildlife. 

When  time  permits  setting  up  the 
camp  stove  or  cooking  unit,  the  menu 
can  be  more  elaborate. 

Campers  can  be  prepared  for  any 
activity  or  change  of  plans  with  a 
variety  of  foods  and  menu  plans. 
Serve  about  four  items  for  most  camp 
meals,  whether  it's  an  out-of-hand 
lunch  or  a  fully  cooked  meal. 

Nonrefrigerated  dairy  milk  prod- 
ucts— canned,  evaporated  milk,  con- 
densed milk,  nonfat  dry  milk — can 
be  diluted  with  cold  or  warm  water 
for  a  hot  beverage  as  nutritious  as 
fresh  whole  milk.  Make  use  of  pack- 
aged flavorings.  These  products  are 
satisfactory  for  "coffee  with,"  over  dry 
cereal,  or  in  a  classic  white  sauce 
served  over  canned  vegetables  and 
fish.  Evaporated  milk  makes  a  good 
base  for  coating  fish  fillets  to  be 
breaded  for  frying. 

Utensils  for  camp  cooking  need  not 
be  elaborate  or  costiy.  Family  mem- 
bers, with  imagination  and  simple 
materials,  can  make  easy  inexpensive 
equipment  and  utensils.  Heavy-duty 
aluminum  foil  should  be  a  staple  in 
the  camp  kitchen. 


(ZZ3Hh 


Before  leaving  for  the  family  camp- 
ing trip,  each  member  can  enjoy  con- 
cocting outdoor  cooking  gear.  To  make 
a  frying  pan,  straighten  a  coat  hanger; 
bend  in  center  to  form  a  loop;  form 
around  a  tin  pan.  Bring  wire  ends  to- 
gether; twist  several  turns;  fasten  ends 
to  a  stick  handle  or  dowel  pin  with 
wire  or  masking  tape. 

A  hanger  can  be  pulled  into  a 
square  and  covered  with  a  double 
sheet  of,  foil  to  make  a  serviceable 


frying  pan.  Bend  the  hook  downward 
to  provide  a  handle.  When  bacon  and 
eggs  or  other  foods  are  cooked  on  this 
pan,  the  foil  depresses  slightly  to  hold 
fats  and  juices.  These  pans  can  be  put 
to  use  as  individual  cook-and-serve 
plates. 

Make  skewer  for  weiners,  kabobs,  or 
marshmallows  by  straightening  a  coat 
hanger,  and  bend  one  end  into  a  loop 
to  form  a  handle.  Remove  the  black 
lacquer  from  straight  end  with  sand- 
paper or  by  burning. 


CT~^Pt 


A  hamburger  broiler  is  fashioned  by 
curving  one  half  of  a  coat  hanger  into 
a  flat  coil.  Bend  up  end  in  coil  center 
to  form  a  prong.  For  a  handle,  attach 
the  straight  end  to  a  stick  or  dowel 
pin  with  wire  or  masking  tape.  Place 
broiler  coil  in  fire  to  remove  the  black 
lacquer. 


Another  handy  camp  gadget  made 
from  a  hanger  is  a  frame  for  a  foil  cup 
or  individual  frying  pan.  Cut  and 
straighten  a  wire  hanger.  Bend  the 
middle  part  of  the  long  wire  around  a 


can  of  desired  size,  form  a  hoop.  Twist 
wire  to  make  hoop  secure.  Bend  re- 
maining wire  into  a  handle.  This 
"hoop  rim  and  handle"  is  light  and 
easy  to  carry  and  store.  To  use,  form 
a  piece  of  foil  around  a  can  of  the 
same  size,  and  insert  this  foil  cup  in 
the  wire  rim.  Roll  the  foil  edges  down 
evenly  over  the  rim  to  make  a  very 
serviceable  cup  or  saucepan. 


This  same  frame  can  serve  as  an  egg 
poacher.  Lay  a  small  sheet  of  fo3 
over  the  cup  rim;  depress  the  center 
only  half  an  inch  or  so,  and  fold  the 
foil  edges  securely  underneath  the  rim. 
Put  a  small  amount  of  water  in  this 
little  pan  and  when  it  is  boiling,  drop 
an  egg  into  it.  When  the  egg  is  cooked, 
pour  off  remaining  water  and  add  a 
bit  of  fat,  salt,  and  pepper.  Slide  egg 
onto  toast,  and  enjoy  poached  egg  on 
toast  out-of-doors.  For  a  quickie  tear 
a  hole  in  a  bread  slice,  place  in  lightly 
buttered  frying  pan,  and  break  an 
egg  in  the  hole.  Fry  until  egg  solidifies, 
and  then  turn. 


If  you  do  not  have  enough  cooking 
utensils,  you  can  easily  make  an  extra 
kettle.  Using  a  rock  and  nail  or  can 
opener,  punch  2  holes  on  opposite 
sides  of  a  can  at  the  top.  Straighten  a 
hanger;  cut  to  handle  length;  shape 
wire  into  a  half  circle.  Insert  wire  ends 
through  holes;  twist  to  secure. 

337 


Aluminum  foil  can  make  a  pan  do 
double  duty.  For  less  tender  cuts  of 
meat  and  game,  cut  two  double  strips 
of  foil  and  form  a  crisscross  sling  in 
the  pan.  Let  foil  ends  hang  at  least 
4  inches  over  outside  rim.  Place  meat 
or  cut-up  game  in  the  sling  and  cover 
with  water.  Place  lid  on  the  pan  and 
simmer  over  a  bed  of  coals.  Forty  to 
fifty  minutes  later,  test  meat  with  a 
fork  to  check  for  doneness.  Remove 
sling  of  meat,  place  vegetables  (carrot 
and  onion  pieces  about  the  same  size) 
in  water;  replace  sling  of  meat  and 
finish  cooking.  To  steam  fish,  cook 
the  vegetables  first.  During  the  last 
20  minutes  place  fish  in  foil  sling  over 
boiling  water  and  vegetables;  replace 
lid  and  cook  until  tender.  Season. 

The  right  kind  of  fire  is  essential  for 
successful  outdoor  cooking.  A  flaming 
fire  is  used  only  for  a  few  methods,  such 
as  planking  fish  and  cooking  in  a  re- 
flector oven.  Most  outdoor  cooking  is 
done  over  coals.  Be  patient,  it  takes 
about  30  to  45  minutes  after  lighting 
a  fire  to  get  good  cooking  coals.  If 
necessary,  maintain  a  fire  on  the  side 
so  you  can  pull  over  good  coals  as 
needed.  Keep  the  wind  at  your  back. 

Be  practical  in  building  fires.  Large 
fires  waste  fuel,  are  hard  to  control, 
and  difficult  to  work  over.  To  build  a 
fire,  first  scrape  ground  litter  from  a 
6-  to  8-foot  circle.  Before  lighting  the 
fire,  assemble  everything  you  need — 
tinder,  kindling  and  fuel.  For  tinder, 
use  dry  weed  tops,  pine  needles,  twigs, 
or  bark  from  a  dead  tree.  Then  add 
kindling  such  as  pencil-sized  branches 
broken  into  small  pieces,  pine  cones, 
fuzz  sticks,  or  trench  candles.  Dead 
branches  still  on  the  tree  are  usually 
drier  than  those  on  the  ground. 

You  can  quickly  whittle  "fuzz 
sticks."  Cut  pieces  of  dry,  soft  wood, 
pointed  at  one  end.  Whittle  so  that 
long  thin  shavings  are  left  attached, 
cutting  toward  blunt  end.  For  quick 
kindling,  push  pointed  ends  of  "fuzz 
sticks"  into  the  ground,  teepee  fashion, 
over  tinder. 

The  best  woods  for  cooking  include 
dry  sugar  maple,  white  oak,  hickory, 
apple,  white  ash,  and  ironwood,  which 

338 


provide  steady,  intense  heat  and  long- 
lived  coals.  Birch,  poplar,  elm,  bass- 
wood  give  quick,  clean  heat,  but  do 
not  last  long.  Most  evergreens  burn 
quickly,  with  smoky  flames. 

An  easy  way  to  lay  a  fire  is  to  prop 
2  or  3  pieces  of  kindling  to  form  air 
angle  under  which  to  place  a  large 
handful  of  tinder.  Construct  a  "tee- 
pee" or  a  "log  cabin"  about  6  inches 
around  center  of  tinder,  leaving  plenty 
of  air  space  between  the  sticks.  Strike 
match  and  place  flame  under  center 
of  the  tinder  pile.  Blow  gently  at  base, 
if  necessary.  Feed  kindling  gradually, 
until  the  fire  is  burning  well.  Avoid 
smothering  it  as  you  add  heavier  fuel. 
Let  the  fire  burn  to  good  coals  before 
beginning  to  cook. 

On  your  next  camping,  fishing,  or 
hunting  trip,  experiment  with  different 
types  of  cooking  fires.  A  trench  fire 
serves  a  larger  group  and  is  relatively 
safe  from  burning  out  of  control.  Dig 
the  trench  running  in  the  same  direc- 
tion with  the  wind,  sloping  from 
ground  level  at  the  windward  end  to 
a  foot  deep.  Trench  may  be  lined  with 
stones  to  hold  heat.  Build  several 
small  fires  along  trench,  adding  larger 
sticks  gradually  and  letting  them  burn 
down  to  a  continuous  bed  of  red  hot 
coals. 

The  hunter's  or  trapper's  fire  is 
based  on  two  green  logs  placed  to 
form  a  "V"  (around  3  inches  apart 
widening  to  10  to  15  inches  at  the 
windward  end).  Build  fire  between 
the  logs,  spreading  coals  the  full 
length.  Hottest  part  will  be  at  the 
narrow  end.  The  logs  confine  the  fire, 
shield  the  cook  from  its  heat,  and 
support  utensils. 

Whether  you  serve  your  outdoor 
meals  in  a  national  campground  or 
with  elegance  on  your  private  patio, 
don't  get  trapped  in  a  rut  or  become 
restricted  by  habit.  Be  creative.  Ex- 
periment with  menus,  foods,  and 
equipment.  Plan  each  meal  to  be  an 
experience  you  will  relish  in  solitude 
or  with  friends  and  family.  As  you 
savor  the  special  flavors  of  food  in  the 
fresh  air,  you'll  find  experience  is  the 
best  teacher. 


Irene  H.  Wolgamot 
Margy  Woodburn 


Community  Meals: 
Organize,  Watch 
Costs,  and  Serve 
Only  Safe  Food 


The  community  meal,  common  in  an 
earlier  era,  survives  in  today's  more 
sophisticated  society,  in  all  parts  of  the 
country.  Women — and  often  men, 
as  well — enjoy  contributing  to  their 
organization  through  their  talents  in 
preparing  and  serving  the  meals.  They 
enjoy  the  sociability  of  working  to- 
gether. For  the  guests,  the  community 
meal  is  a  pleasant  family  and  neighbor- 
hood outing,  at  a  reasonable  cost.  For 
many  women  guests,  it  provides  a 
holiday  from  their  kitchens.  For  the 
sponsoring  organization,  it  promotes 
fellowship  and  may  increase  member- 
ships and  funds. 

Tiptop  organization  and  manage- 
ment are  required  to  put  on  a  success- 
ful community  meal.  The  meal  must 
be  good,  the  tables  attractive,  and  the 
food  service  efficient.  Costs  must  be 
controlled.  A  friendly  and  hospitable 
atmosphere  must  prevail  so  that  guests 
have  a  good  time.  The  sponsoring 
organization  must  achieve  some  or  all 
of  its  goals  for  the  event. 

Dividing  responsibility  among  per- 
sons through  committees  is  the  usual 
method  of  organizing  the  work.  There 


needs  to  be  a  general  chairman  to 
whom  all  committees  are  responsible. 

The  general  chairman  should  be  a 
leader  who  can  get  cooperation  from 
others.  She  understands  what  work 
has  to  be  done  to  put  on  a  good 
community  meal.  She  knows  good  food 
and  she  has  high  standards  of  cleanli- 
ness and  sanitation.  She  is  efficient  in 
managing  time,  energy,  and  money. 

It's  the  general  chairman  who  gives 
guidance  to  committee  chairmen  as 
required  on  selection  of  menu,  costs, 
hospitality,  tickets,  publicity,  and  the 
arrangements  for  preparing  and  serv- 
ing the  meal.  She  coordinates  their 
activities  and  is  responsible  for  their 
successful  functioning.  She  serves  as 
liaison  with  officers  of  the  sponsoring 
organization.  She  gets  information 
from  the  health  department  on  the 
city  and  State  ordinances  concerning 
sanitation  for  the  type  of  food  serv- 
ice offered  and  plans  for  meeting  the 
standards. 

Committees  might  include  pub- 
licity, tickets,  hospitality,  kitchen, 
dining  room,  and  cleanup.  A  financial 
committee  may  be  needed  to  coordi- 
nate and  control  costs.  For  special 
events  in  which  temporary  quarters 
are  used,  a  committee  on  facilities  will 
be  required  to  check  for  adequate 
wiring,  safe  water,  disposal  of  liquid 
and  solid  waste,  restroom  facilities  for 
workers,  and  screening,  as  well  as 
facilities  to  prepare  and  serve  food. 

The  publicity  committee's  work  may 
consist  of  one  announcement  in  church 
or  of  many  announcements  through 
meetings,  newsletters,  the  newspapers, 
radio,  TV,  and  posters.  Sometimes 
another  group  in  the  sponsoring 
organization  handles  the  publicity  for 
all  events.  The  purpose  is  clear — to  let 
people  know  about  the  community 
meal  and  to  get  them  to  come. 

The  tickets  might  be  handled  by  the 
publicity  committee  or  by  a  separate 

Irene  H.  Wolgamot  is  a  Home  Economist  in  the 
Consumer  and  Food  Economics  Research  Division, 
Agricultural  Research  Service. 

Margy  Woodburn  is  Professor  and  Head,  Depart- 
ment of  Foods  and  Nutrition,  School  of  Home  Eco- 
nomics, Oregon  State  University,  Corvallis. 

339 


group.  Arrangements  must  be  made 
for  printing  the  tickets,  selling  them, 
and  checking  the  number  sold  against 
the  total  plates  served. 

The  hospitality  committee  could 
arrange  for  hosts  and  hostesses  who 
greet  guests,  help  them  to  meet  each 
other  and  to  get  seated  at  tables. 

Hosts  may  escort  honored  guests  to 
their  places  and  promote  sociability 
during  the  entire  event.  The  hospital- 
ity committee  arranges  a  place  for 
the  guests  to  put  their  coats  and  to 
assemble  before  the  meal  is  served. 

The  kitchen  committee  plans  the 
menu,  purchases  the  food,  prepares 
the  meal,  and  serves  it  from  the 
kitchen.  A  few  reserve  committee 
members  should  be  on  call  if  needed 
to  replace  those  who  might  be  ill.  A 
person  should  not  handle  food  if  she 
has  a  boil,  an  infected  cut  or  burn, 
respiratory  infection,  sore  throat,  or 
digestive  upset. 

The  dining  room  committee  is 
responsible  for  the  dining  arrange- 
ments— tables,  chairs,  table  setting, 
and  food  service.  It  arranges  heating 
and  ventilation  of  the  dining  room, 
table  decorations,  and  the  recruiting, 
training,  and  assignment  of  waitresses. 
Reserve  waitresses  are  also  needed. 

The  cleanup  committee  takes  care 
of  kitchen  cleanup  including  dish- 
washing and  disposal  of  waste.  This 
should  not  be  the  responsibility  of 
those  who  prepared  the  meal.  Clean- 
up activities  have  important  sanitation 
and  health  aspects  and  should  be 
undertaken  by  workers  who  have  not 
already  put  in  hours  of  work. 

The  menu  should  be  planned  to  suit 
the  occasion ;  the  season ;  type  of  meal ; 
cost  of  meal  and  price  to  be  charged; 
number  and  kind  of  persons  to  be 
served;  and  the  equipment,  facilities, 
and  workers  available.  It  should  be 
balanced  nutritionally  and  provide 
both  harmony  and  contrast  in  flavors, 
textures,  and  colors.  The  usual  pattern 
includes  an  appetizer,  a  main  protein 
dish,  vegetables,  a  salad,  bread  and 
butter,  dessert,  and  a  beverage.  Pas- 
teurized milk  should  be  available  to 
adults  as  well  as  children. 

340 


If  refrigerator  space  is  limited,  select 
the  less  perishable  foods;  for  example, 
fruit  instead  of  cream  pies.  Select  main 
dishes  and  vegetables  that  do  not  need 
refrigeration  before  preparation  and 
are  served  directly  from  the  range.  If 
equipment  is  limited  or  the  workers 
inexperienced  in  preparing  foods  in 
quantity,  avoid  foods  requiring  special 
care  for  reasons  of  safety  such  as  salads 
and  sandwich  fillings  made  with  meat, 
poultry,  fish,  and  eggs;  potato  salad; 
cream  sauce;  cream  pies  and  puffs. 
Also  avoid  serving  meats  cooked  ahead 
to  be  served  cold  or  rewarmed. 

Cost  can  be  controlled  and  kept  as 
low  as  possible  by  (1)  estimating  the 
amount  of  food  needed  and  buying 
accordingly,  (2)  buying  food  in  large 
amounts,  (3)  buying  at  lowest  cost, 
perhaps  at  wholesale  prices,  (4)  stand- 
ardizing the  serving  portions,  and 
(5)  avoiding  food  waste. 

Check  prices  and  compare  before 
buying.  Figure  the  cost  per  plate  so 
that  cost  facts  are  known.  Keep  an 
accurate  record  of  all  costs  and  save 
for  future  reference. 

Management  in  preparing  the  meal 
determines  to  a  large  extent  the  suc- 
cess of  the  event,  as  measured  by  the 
pleasure  of  the  guests  and  the  satis- 
faction of  the  workers. 

Place  orders  for  food  a  week  in 
advance.  One  person  should  be  re- 
sponsible to  check  all  deliveries  against 
orders  and  handle  all  bills.  Donated 
foods  should  be  listed  and  checked  as 
received.  Despite  a  possible  saving, 
perishable  foods  should  be  prepared 
where  they  will  be  served  so  that  the 
committee  has  control  of  quality  and 
wholesomeness.  In  some  localities,  this 
is  required  by  law  when  food  is  served 
to  the  public. 

Purchase  some  emergency  canned 
foods  to  provide  a  small  number  of 
meals  that  can  be  prepared  quickly 
for  extra  guests.  Arrange  to  return 
those  unopened.  Provide  jars,  waxed 
paper,  aluminum  foil,  and  moisture- 
proof  bags  to  use  for  selling  any  left- 
over food.  Generally,  only  the  less 
perishable  foods  should  be  sold.  The 
purchaser  should  refrigerate  meats  and 


other  perishable  foods  promptly  upon 
returning  home. 

Assign  workers  specific  kitchen  space 
and  foods  to  prepare  (1)  appetizers, 
(2)  meat,  (3)  vegetables,  (4)  salad 
and  relishes,  (5)  bread  and  butter, 
(6)  dessert,  and  (7)  beverages.  Provide 
recipes  for  the  number  to  be  served, 
with  cooking  times.  Provide  informa- 
tion on  number  of  servings  to  be  made 
from  each  container. 

Types  of  service  include  buffet 
meals  and  cafeteria  service  as  well  as 
the  usual  table  service.  Plates  may  be 
served  from  the  kitchen  or  food  may 
be  served  on  the  table,  family  style. 


Cafeteria  service  requires  much  less 
help  in  the  dining  room.  Tables  are 
set  as  usual.  Guests  are  served  and 
pay  for  the  dishes  they  choose  at  the 
end  of  the  serving  unit. 

Management  of  serving  determines 
how  quickly  the  meal  is  served,  and 
whether  it  is  served  hot.  For  table 
service,  instruct  waitresses  on  setting 
the  tables  and  serving.  Assign  them  to 
specific  tables.  One  waitress  can  usu- 
ally serve  10  to  12  persons  at  long 
tables;  up  to  8  at  small  tables.  Times 
should  be  established  for  setting  the 
tables.  Water  glasses  should  be  filled, 
and  butter,  bread,  relishes,  and  cream 


Plates  served  from  kitchen  at  church  dinner  in  Hyattsville,  Md. 


Buffet  service  requires  fewer  helpers 
than  table  service.  Foods  for  the  main 
course  are  put  on  one  plate  by  the 
guest,  who  helps  himself  to  some  or 
all  of  the  foods.  Keep  foods  hot  with 
electric  grills  or  other  heating  units. 
Use  baking  dishes  that  retain  heat 
well.  Put  small  amounts  of  food  out  at 
one  time  so  that  frequent  replacements 
keep  the  table  attractive.  Consider  the 
most  efficient  way  for  the  guest  to 
serve  himself.  Tongs  are  useful  for 
many  items,  including  rolls  and  rel- 
ishes. One  or  more  hot  dishes  may 
be  served  to  the  guest  at  the  buffet 
table.  Often  dessert  and  beverage  are 
served  by  waitresses. 


placed  on  tables  just  before  the  guests 
are  seated. 

Plan  serving  arrangements  in  the 
kitchen  so  that  the  serving  unit  is  as 
near  the  dining  room  as  possible.  Hot 
dishes  should  be  served  hot,  cold 
dishes,  cold.  When  plates  are  served 
in  the  kitchen,  assign  one  person  to 
serve  each  food  and  keep  the  plates 
moving  rapidly.  Pass  plates  from  right 
to  left  with  waitresses  receiving  plates 
at  end  of  table  nearest  to  the  dining 
room.  Before  serving,  try  different 
arrangements  of  food  on  the  plate  and 
select  the  most  attractive  one  for  use  on 
all  plates.  Have  a  double  serving  line 
to  speed  service  for  large  groups. 

341 


Arrange  a  space  for  soiled  dishes 
cleared  from  the  tables.  Discard  food 
returned  from  the  tables  unless  it  is  in 
unopened  packages. 

Records  are  helpful.  If  kept  in  a 
notebook,  simple  records  can  provide 
useful  references  for  later  events. 
Examples  are:  Market  orders,  expense 
records,  menus,  and  records  of  com- 
mittees. A  record  on  each  community 
meal  should  show:  Date,  place,  type 
of  meal,  number  of  meals  served, 
money  taken  in,  expenses  and  profit. 

Safety  for  workers  should  be  con- 
sidered when  people  work  together  in 
a  new  situation — often  in  unfamiliar 
surroundings  and  with  equipment  they 
are  not  used  to.  Good  organization 
with  a  minimum  of  last  minute  hurry- 
ing goes  a  long  way  toward  preventing 
any  accidents. 

Falls,  cuts,  and  burns  are  the  com- 
mon types  of  accidents  in  kitchens.  A 
check  of  the  kitchen  may  show  hazards 
that  can  be  corrected.  Halls  should  be 
well  lighted.  Stairways  should  have 
handrails.  There  should  be  no  loose 
steps  or  boards.  During  icy  weather, 
ashes  or  sand  should  be  spread  on 
entrance  walks  and  at  doorways. 

An  annual  or  semiannual  kitchen 
cleanup  provides  an  opportunity  to 
organize  and  check  equipment  for 
safety.  Knife  holders,  step  stools,  and 
portable  carts  can  help  workers  to 
work  safely.  A  special  cupboard  away 
from  the  food  storage  area  can  provide 
a  safe  storage  for  disinfectants  and 
pesticides. 

Keep  a  first  aid  kit  on  hand,  and 
post  telephone  numbers  of  doctor  and 
fire  department. 

Before  leaving  the  kitchen,  check  all 
equipment  to  be  sure  that  all  fires  are 
out  and  all  the  electrical  equipment 
disconnected. 

Instruct  all  workers  on  community 
meals  in  methods  of  working  to  avoid 
accidents.  Important  safety  precau- 
tions are  given  below. 

Avoid  falls  by:  Wearing  low  heels, 
wiping  up  spills,  keeping  boxes  and 
mops  out  of  the  way  to  prevent  trip- 
ping, and  standing  on  a  step  stool  or 
strong  box  to  reach  high  shelves. 

342 


Avoid  cuts  by:  Washing  all  knives 
carefully,  storing  knives  in  a  holder, 
cutting  vegetables  on  a  board,  picking 
up  broken  glass  with  a  damp  paper 
towel,  and  using  a  good  can  opener. 

Avoid  burns  by:  Turning  the  pan 
handles  away  from  you,  raising  kettle 
lids  away  from  face,  and  using  pot 
holders. 

Avoid  fires  by:  Lighting  oven  care- 
fully, keeping  matches  in  a  covered 
tin  can,  and  keeping  curtains,  dish 
towels,  and  paper  away  from  range. 

Avoid  collisions  by:  Regulating  the 
traffic  with  IN  and  OUT  doors  if 
needed;  walking,  not  running;  and 
not  overloading  trays  or  work  space. 

Avoid  shock  by:  Handling  electrical 
equipment  with  dry  hands  and  keeping 
electric  cords  in  good  condition. 

Safe  food  must  be  planned,  not  left 
to  chance.  Buying  is  the  first  step  in 
safety.  Be  sure  that  bargain  foods  are 
in  no  way  less  safe.  Purchase  all  meat 
and  poultry  from  processors  who  oper- 
ate under  Federal  or  State  inspection. 
Buy  shellfish  from  sources  approved  by 
the  State's  shellfish  authority.  Buy 
pasteurized  dairy  products.  Use  only 
commercially  canned  foods  in  sound, 
unbulged  cans. 

Because  home  processing  is  done 
with  fewer  mechanical  controls  and 
safety  checks,  home  canned  meats  and 
vegetables  should  not  be  used.  In  some 
communities,  regulations  prevent  the 
sale  of  "homemade"  ice  cream.  If 
made  at  home,  pasteurized  milk  or 
cream  and  uncracked  fresh  eggs  should 
be  used  in  the  ice  cream  mix,  which 
should  be  refrigerated  (below  45°  F.) 
until  frozen. 

All  fruits  and  vegetables  should  be 
thoroughly  washed  to  remove  any 
pesticide  residues. 

Temperature  Control  is  a  major  step  in 
safety.  Bacterial  growth  is  retarded  by 
cold  and  speeded  by  warm  tempera- 
tures (45°  to  140°  F.).  Perishable  foods 
should  be  kept  very  cold  or  hot.  If 
they  are  held  at  warm  temperatures — 
above  refrigeration  temperature  and 
below  the  serving  temperature  for  hot 
foods — they  may  cause  food  poisoning. 
Such  spoilage  may  produce  no  easily 


detectable  signs  in  the  food;  the  taste, 
smell,  and  appearance  may  all  remain 
quite  normal. 

The  most  perishable  foods  include 
those  with  meat,  poultry,  fish,  eggs,  or 
milk  as  an  ingredient.  Mixtures  or 
foods  that  require  several  «teps  and 
handling  during  preparation  are  more 
apt  to  be  contaminated,  and  so  require 
extra  care.  However,  no  matter  how 
carefully  food  has  been  prepared,  it 
should  be  assumed  that  contamination 
with  harmful  bacteria  may  have  oc- 
curred and  that  it  must  be  kept  either 
cold  or  hot. 

Cold  Food  Cold  is  a  good  rule  for 
safety.  Food  in  a  refrigerator  is  not 
always  cold.  Temperature  on  each 
shelf  of  the  refrigerator  should  be 
checked  frequently  with  a  thermom- 
eter, and  operating  controls  set  so  that 
a  temperature  of  42°  F.  or  below  is 
held  to. 

It  is  important  not  to  overcrowd  the 
refrigerator.  Food  may  be  refrigerated 
hot  if  refrigerator  capacity  is  adequate. 
Another  way  to  precool  food  is  to 
immerse  the  pan  of  food  in  cold  water 
for  half  an  hour,  stirring  occasionally. 
Cooked  food  that  is  to  be  cooled  before 
storing  should  be  cooled  rapidly.  The 
center  of  the  contents  of  a  5-gallon  can 
or  a  deep  pot  will  remain  warm  too 
long  even  if  in  the  refrigerator.  Use 
shallow  containers  so  that  the  layer 
of  food  will  not  be  over  2  inches  deep. 
Liquids  should  be  in  quantities  of  a 
gallon  or  less  to  cool.  Gravy  or  broth 
should  be  separated  from  meat  for 
cooling.  Refrigerate  cream-filled  pies 
or  puffs  and  puddings  if  held  longer 
than  2  hours  before  eating. 

If  frozen  food  is  to  be  thawed  before 
cooking,  defrost  it  in  the  refrigerator 
or  in  a  tightly  sealed,  moistureproof 
bag  put  in  cool  running  water.  Most 
products  can  be  cooked  directly  from 
the  frozen  state. 

Hot  Food  Hot  is  the  matching  rule. 
Often  a  thermometer  is  needed  to  be 
certain  that  food  is  really  hot.  Food 
in  baked  dishes  should  bubble  in  the 
center  during  cooking,  but  a  tempera- 
ture of  180°  F.  or  above  as  shown  by  a 
thermometer  is  a  better  guide.  A  meat 


thermometer  is  a  helpful  guide  for 
roasting'  turkeys.  Since  the  stuffing 
cooks  slowly  in  the  bird,  it  is  safer  to 
bake  it  separately.  Pork  should  be 
cooked  at  least  to  medium  doneness  in 
the  most  rare  part. 

Large  Quantities  of  food  require  a 
special  care  in  handling.  In  preparing 
cooked,  boned  chicken,  it  is  important 
to  both  debone  and  cool  it  rapidly. 
Refrigerate  the  chicken  in  shallow 
layers.  If  refrigerator  space  is  limited, 
oven-fried  chicken  is  a  better  menu 
choice  than  creamed  chicken  or  chicken 
loaf.  If  ham  is  sliced  or  ground, 
work  with  small  amounts  and  store 
it  promptly  in  the  refrigerator  (below 
45°  F.).  Cover  foods  lightly  for  refrig- 
erator storage. 

Workers  should  be  healthy,  with  no 
infected  cuts,  burns,  or  boils.  They 
should  have  good  habits  of  personal 
cleanliness,  which  include  handwash- 
ing before  preparing  any  food,  before 
leaving  restroom,  and  after  using  a 
handkerchief.  Hands  should  be  kept 
away  from  face  and  hair.  Hairnets  or 
caps  are  desirable  for  aesthetic  reasons 
as  well  as  being  good  sanitary  practice. 
Restroom  facilities  should  be  clean 
and  adequate,  with  ample  supplies  of 
soap  and  either  paper  towels  or  air- 
drying  devices. 

After  handling  raw  meats  or  poultry, 
wash  hands  well.  No  smoking  in  the 
kitchen  or  while  serving  is  the  rule 
since  a  cigarette  may  carry  contamina- 
tion from  mouth  to  hands.  A  good 
cook  has  to  taste  the  food,  so  make  it 
easy  to  use  tasting  spoons  only  once. 

Waitresses  should  be  in  good  health 
and  neat.  They  should  pick  up  cups 
by  the  handle  and  glasses  at  the  base. 
Plates  and  bowls  should  be  supported 
on  the  bottom. 

Equipment  should  be  chosen  that  is 
easy  to  clean.  Cutting  boards  should 
be  of  a  hard  material  with  no  cracks. 
One  board  should  be  labeled  for  use 
with  raw  meats  and  poultry  only,  and 
another  reserved  for  sandwiches  and 
salad  ingredients.  Clean  the  boards 
and  other  work  surfaces,  grinders,  and 
knives  thoroughly  following  each  use. 
Check  meat  sheers  and  grinders  for 

343 


ease  of  cleaning  before  purchasing. 
Can  openers  should  be  easy  to  clean 
and  should  be  kept  clean.  A  clean 
work  area  is  pleasant  as  well  as  safe. 

Use  galvanized  containers  only  for 
storing  dry  foods  since  harmful  zinc 
may  be  dissolved  by  beverages  and 
other  moist  foods.  Discard  any  cracked 
and  chipped  dishes. 

Dishwashing  can  be  easy  or  difficult 
depending  largely  on  the  kitchen  ar- 
rangement and  equipment.  A  dish- 
washing machine  correctly  installed 
is  the  best  equipment.  Next  best  is  the 
three-compartment  sink.  Lacking  one 
of  these,  ingenuity  in  using  large  con- 
tainers will  be  required.  Disposable 
paper  or  plastic  service  is  a  good 
choice  in  temporary  quarters.  Rubber 
gloves  protect  workers'  hands. 

The  steps  in  hand  dishwashing  are: 

Scrape  and  rinse  dinnerware,  flat- 
ware, and  other  pieces.  A  rubber 
scraper  is  a  good  tool  to  use  here. 

Wash  in  die  first  sink  in  a  hot  de- 
tergent solution,  which  is  replaced 
often  enough  to  keep  good  suds  and 
be  reasonably  clean.  Glass,  flatware, 
dinnerware,  and  serving  pieces  are  the 
usual  order.  Pots  and  pans  should  be 
washed  during  the  preparation  period 
and  separately  at  the  end. 

Rinse  in  hot  water  in  the  second 
sink.  Dish  and  flatware  baskets  are 
especially  useful. 

Immerse  in  the  third  sink  for  a 
minute  or  longer  in  very  hot  water 
(at  least  170°  F.,  as  checked  frequently 
with  a  thermometer)  or  in  a  hot  solu- 
tion of  chloride  (1  ounce  of  most  liquid 
chlorine-type  bleaches  per  2  gallons 
of  water)  or  commercial  sanitizer  used 
according  to  the  manufacturer's  direc- 
tions. Disinfectant  compounds  for  use 
in  dishwashing  may  be  purchased  at 
most  restaurant  supply  firms. 

Air  dry.  Knives,  forks  and  spoons 
should  be  stacked  so  that  they  will  be 
picked  up  by  the  handles.  Storage 
space  should  provide  protection  from 
any  dust. 

For  machine  dishwashing,  the  steps 
are  similar.  Follow  the  manufacturer's 
directions.  Keep  the  machine  in  good 
repair  so  it  will  run  well. 

344 


Cloths  should  not  be  used  for  drying 
dishes.  Those  used  for  cleaning  tables 
or  serving  areas  should  not  be  used  for 
other  purposes.  They  should  be  kept 
clean  and  replaced  frequently.  Paper 
towels  are  convenient  for  many  jobs. 

Insects  and  Rodents  may  carry  disease 
and  must  be  kept  out  of  the  area.  The 
annual  or  semiannual  cleanup  is  a 
good  time  to  look  for  evidence  of 
problems.  Professional  extermination 
service  may  be  needed.  If  pesticides 
are  used,  read  the  directions  and  note 
any  precautions  for  use  in  the  kitchen. 
Protect  the  food  and  utensils  from 
pesticides. 

Quantities  of  food  needed  for  serving 
are  estimated  by  multiplying  a  serv- 
ing unit  of  food  by  the  number  of 
persons  to  be  served.  Workers  should 
be  included  as  well  as  guests  and  it  is 
advisable  to  allow  a  small  margin 
above  this  amount.  When  the  food  is 
served  family  style,  allowance  should 
be  made  for  some  second  servings. 

Some  guidelines  on  purchasing  for 
church  suppers  and  other  community 
meals  follow.  Other  guidance  mate- 
rials given  include:  Quantities  and 
measures;  dinner  menus  for  com- 
munity meals;  directions  and  time- 
tables for  roasting  meats  and  for 
roasting  turkey;  and  some  selected 
recipes  for  25  and  100  portions.  For 
more  information,  publications  on 
quantity  cooking  and  group  feeding 
should  be  consulted. 

Quantities  and  Measures 

Common  measures  are: 

3  teaspoons  =  1  tablespoon 
16  tablespoons  =1  cup 

2  cups=  1  pint 
2  pints  =  1  quart 

4  quarts  —  1  gallon 
16  ounces  =  1  pound 

Large  can  sizes  include: 

No.  3  cylinder,  5%  cups — Fruit  and 
vegetable  juices,  whole  chicken,  some 
vegetables,  pork  and  beans,  condensed 
soups. 

No.  10,  12  to  13  cups — Fruits  and 
vegetables. 


No.  303,  2  cups — Fruits,  vegetables, 
some  meat  and  poultry  products,  and 
ready-to-serve  soups. 

No.  2,  2K  cups — Juices,  ready-to- 
serve  soups,  and  some  fruits. 

No.  2}l,  3}i  cups — Fruits  and  some 
vegetables. 

Scoop  sizes: 

The  scoop  number  indicates  the 
number  of  scoopfuls  which  equal  1 
quart.  Sizes  commonly  used  in  com- 
munity meals  are:  No.  6  {%  cup)  for 
serving  main  dish  mixtures  and  No. 
8  i}{  cup)  for  serving  vegetables  and 
fruits. 

Some  common  food  measures: 

1  pound  flour,  sifted =4  cups 

1  pound    butter   or    margarine  =  2 

cups 
1  pound  hydrogenated  fat  or  lard 

=2}i  to  2}i  cups 

DINNER  MENUS  FOR  COMMUNITY  MEALS 

Tomato  juice 

Baked  ham 

Sweet  potatoes 

Green  beans 

Raw  vegetable  salad 

Rolls  with  butter  or  margarine 

Apple  cranberry  crunch 

Coffee,  tea,  or  milk 

Fruit  cup 

Oven  fried  chicken 

Scalloped  potatoes : 

Cabbage  with  tart  sauce  ' 

Celery,  carrot  sticks 

Rolls  with  jelly,  butter,  or  margarine 

Pineapple  upside  down  cake 

Coffee,  tea,  or  milk 

Fruit  juice 

Roast  turkey,  stuffing,  gravy 

Mashed  potatoes 

Carrots  in  sweet  sauce 

Cranberry  sauce 

Rolls  with  butter  or  margarine 

Coleslaw ' 

Ice  cream,  cookies 

Coffee,  tea,  or  milk 

Fruit  juice 

Roast  beef 

Browned  potatoes 

Peas  and  carrots 

Celery 

Pickles 

Applesauce 

Rolls  with  butter  or  margarine 

Cherry  cobbler 1 

Coffee,  tea,  or  milk 


Directions  and  Timetable  for  Roasting 
Some  Selected  Meats 2 

Roast  meat  at  325°  F.  in  uncovered 
pan,  fat  side  up,  allowing  space  be- 
tween roasts.  Do  not  add  water.  Insert 
thermometer  into  center  of  thickest 
part  of  meat,  away  from  the  bone, 
fat,  or  gristle.  (See  timetable,  p.  346.) 

Directions  and  Timetable  for  Roasting  Turkey 

Roast  the  turkey  unstuffed,  and 
bake  the  stuffing  separately  in  shallow 
pans.  (See  timetable,  p.  346.) 

Remove  neck  and  giblets  and  wash 
turkey  thoroughly.  Season  turkey 
cavity  with  salt  as  desired.  Fold  neck 
skin  back  and  fasten  with  skewers ; 
fold  wings  toward  back;  tie  the  legs 
together  and  fasten  to  tail. 

Place  turkey  on  rack  in  shallow, 
uncovered  pan,  breast  up.  Brush  skin 
with  fat  or  oil.  Do  not  add  water.  The 
turkey  may  be  partially  covered  with 
a  loose  tent  of  aluminum  foil  or  with 
cheesecloth  dipped  in  melted  fat  or 
oil.  When  turkey  is  about  half  done, 
unfasten  legs  to  speed  cooking.  When 
done,  leg  joint  will  move  easily  and 
meat  will  be  very  soft  when  drumstick 
is  pressed.  The  juice  will  be  clear,  not 
pink.  If  thermometer  is  used,  it  should 
register  185°  F.  Do  not  cook  partially 
on  one  day  and  finish  cooking  the  next. 

Scalloped  Potatoes 
Portion,  %  cup 


Ingredients 


25  portions     100  portions 


Butter  or  margarine Vt  cup  2  cups 

All-purpose  flour 1  cup  1  qt. 

Salt 134tsp.  21/Mbsp. 

Hot  milk 2  qt.  2  gal. 

Onions,  chopped 14  cup  1  cup 

Potatoes, thinlysliced..  1  gal.  4  gal. 


Melt  fat;  blend  in  flour  and  salt. 
Stir  into  milk;  cook,  stirring  con- 
standy,  until  thickened.  Add  onions. 

Boil  or  steam  potatoes  until  almost 
tender  and  put  into  12-  x  20-  x  2-inch 


1  Recipe  given 


2  Roasting  directions  and  timetables  and 
the  recipes  were  provided  by  Mrs.  Mary  S. 
March,  Food  Technologist,  Human  Nutri- 
tion Research  Division,  of  the  Agricultural 
Research  Service. 

345 


Guide  to  Amounts  of  Some  Foods  to  Buy  for  25  and  100  Servings 


Food 


Approximate  size 
of  serving 


25  servings 


100  servings 


APPETIZERS: 

Tomato  or  fruit  juice %  cup 

Fruit  cocktail %  cup 

SOUPS: 

Ready-to-serve  soups. 1  cup 

MEATS: 

Beef  round,  boneout,  for  roasting. .  4  oz. 

Ham,  bone  out,  cured,  rolled 4  oz. 

Ground  beef,  for  meat  patties 4  oz. 

POULTRY: 

Turkey,  ready-to-cook,  for  roasting.  4  oz. 
Chicken,  ready-to-cook,  small    14  bird 
fryers. 

SEAFOOD: 

Fish,  fillets  for  baking,  frying,  or    4  oz. 
broiling. 

VEGETABLES: 

Canned  vegetables Vo  cup 

Frozen  vegetables V%  cup 

Carrots,  for  cooking %  cup 

Cabbage,  for  cooking. v£  cup 

Potatoes,  for  boiling 1  medium 

SALADS: 

Cabbage  for  coleslaw Vo  cup 

Potatoes  for  salad Vn  cup 

DESSERTS: 

Pie H  of  pie 

Sheet  cake 3"  x  3" 

Ice  cream,  bulk No.  12  scoop 

(Vfcc.) 

FRUITS: 

Canned  fruits V2  cup 

BEVERAGES: 

Coffee,  urn  grind 1  cup 

Coffee,  instant  powdered 1  cup 

Coffee,  instant  freeze  dried 1  cup 

Tea 1  cup 

Punch VJ  cup 

OTHER: 

Butter  or  margarine 1  pat  (1  tsp.) 

Crackers 2  crackers 

Salad  Dressing 1  tbsp.  (scant) 


2  46-oz. 
1  No.  10 

cans 
can 

8  46-oz.  cans 
4  No.  10  cans 

V/s  gal. 

6  gal. 

9  1b. 

10  lb. 
61b. 

341b. 
40  1b. 
25  1b. 

13  1b. 
7  birds 

53  1b. 

25  birds 

10  lb. 


114  No-  10  cans 
5-6  lb. 
7  1b. 
614  lb- 
9  lb. 

41b. 
41b. 

5  pies 
114  pans 
12" x 18" 


1  gal. 


1  No.  10  can 

HJb"     , 
1  2-oz.  jar 

%  cup 

1VS  oz. 

1  gal.,  (scant) 


40  lb. 


5  No.  10  cans 
20-24  lb. 
25  1b. 
25  lb. 
341b. 

16  1b. 

16  1b. 

17  pies 
414  pans 

12" x 18" 
4  gal. 


4  No.  10  cans 

ZVo  lb. 

1  6-oz.  jar 
3  cups 

6  oz. 
314  gal. 

2  lb. 
2  1b. 

6  cups 


Timetable  for  Roasting  Some  Selected  Meats 


Kind  and  cut  of  meat 


Weight  in  pounds 


I  nternal  temperature      Cooking  time  in  hours 
of  cooked  meat 


Roast  beef  rump,  rolled 5 

Roast  leg  of  lamb,  rolled 7 

Fresh  pork  ham,  bone  in 10  to  14 

Cured  ham  (mild): 

Cook-before-eating,  bone  in 12  to  16 

Fully-cooked,  bone  in 6 

Canned 6  to  10 

Roast  leg  of  veal,  bone  in 5  to  8 


160°-170° 
180"  F. 
185°  F. 

160°  F. 
130°  F. 
130"  F. 
170°  F. 


3  to  314 

311to6 

i  to  414 
5  to  2 
i  to  2Vs 

;  to  31/2 


Timetable  for  Roasting  Turkey 


Form  of  turkey 


Weight  in  pounds 


Oven  temperature        Cooking  time  in  hours 


Whole,    ready-to-cook,    unstuffed         j 
(weight  includes  neck  and  giblets).  1 


12  to  16 

16to21 
21  to  26 


}325°  F. 


BBSS* 

16  to  7Vz 


346 


baking  pans,  one  pan  for  each  25 
portions.  Add  2  quarts  of  sauce  to 
potatoes  in  each  pan.  Cover  and  bake 
30  minutes  at  350°  F.  Remove  cover 
and  bake  15  minutes  longer  to  brown. 
For  25  portions,  buy  7%  pounds  of 
potatoes;  for  100  portions,  29  pounds. 

Cabbage  With  Tart  Sauce 

Portion,  about  %  cup  cabbage  and  1  tablespoon  sauce 


Ingredients 


25  portions      100  portions 


Cabbage 6%  lb. 

Salt lVfctbsp. 

Sugar 2  tlisp. 

Paprika ly2tsp. 

Lemon  juice y2  cup 

Butter  or  margarine, 

melted 1  cup 

Prepared  horseradish..  2  tbsp. 


25  lb. 

%cup 
M>  cup 
2  tbsp. 
2  cups 

1  quart 
Vz  cup 


Remove  outer  leaves  of  cabbage 
and  shred  or  cut  into  wedges.  Boil  in 
10-pound  lots  with  2  quarts  water  and 
Wz  tablespoons  of  salt  for  about  15 
minutes,  or  steam  in  a  compartment 
steamer  at  5  to  7  pounds  of  pressure 
about  12  minutes  or  only  until  cabbage 
is  tender.  Drain. 

Blend  salt,  sugar,  and  paprika.  Add 
lemon  juice,  fat,  and  horseradish.  Mix 
well.  Pour  sauce  over  hot  cabbage. 

Coleslaw 
Portion,  %  cup 


Ingredients 


25  portions      100  portions 


Vinegar V/A  cups 

Sugar 1  cup  plus 

2  tbsp. 

Celery  seed VA  tsp. 

Salt U tsp. 

Pepper %  tsp. 

Cabbage,  shredded V/4  gal. 


JViqt 
1  qt.  plus 

2rcp 

1  tbsp. 

2  tsp. 
5  gal. 


Combine  all  the  ingredients  except 
cabbage.  Mix  well.  Stir  vinegar  mix- 
ture into  shredded  cabbage  and  let 
stand  at  least  10  minutes.  Serve  cold. 

For  25  portions,  buy  4  pounds  of 
cabbage;  for  100  portions,  16  pounds. 

Cherry  Cobbler 

Portion,  Vx  cup  plus  pastry  topping 


I  ngredients 


25  portions     100  portions 


Filling: 

Sugar 2ys  cups 

All-purpose  flour %cup 

Cinnamon,  if  desired.   lVfetsp. 

Hot  cherry  liquid 1  qt. 

Red  food  coloring,  if 

desired 2  drops 

Canned,  red,  tart, 

pitted  cherries, 

drained 2V£  qt. 

Topping: 

All-purpose  flour 3  cups 

Salf 1  tsp. 

Shortening VA  cups 

Cold  water about  Vs> 

cup 


21/a  Qt. 
3  cups 
2  tbsp. 
lgal. 

Mtsp. 

2i/2  gal. 

3qt. 
lVjtbsp. 
lJ4qt. 
about  2 
cups 


For  filling,  mix  dry  ingredients; 
blend  gradually  into  liquid.  Cook  and 
stir  constantly  until  thickened. 

Pour  about  3K  quarts  cherry  mix- 
ture into  one  12-  x  20-  x  2-inch  baking 
pan  for  each  25  portions. 

For  pastry  topping,  blend  flour  and 
salt.  Cut  in  fat  until  the  mixture  is 
granular.  Add  water  and  mix.  Roll 
out  on  lightly  floured  board  into  12-  x 
20-inch  rectangles  and  place  on  filling 
in  each  pan. 

Bake  at  375°  F.  for  around  45  to  50 
minutes  or  until  crust  is  brown. 

For  25  portions,  use  7  No.  303  cans 
or  1  No.  10  can  of  cherries;  for  100 
portions,  use  4  No.  10  cans. 


347 


Ruth  M.  Leverton 


Decisions— 

Now  It's  All 
Up  to  You 


This  1969  Yearbook  has  told  the  story 
of  food — in  terms  of  products  from 
field  to  table,  nutrients  from  soil  and 
solar  system  to  human  well-being,  and 
economics  from  producer  to  consumer. 
But  most  especially  it  has  focused  on 
the  many  ways  to  choose  and  to  use 
food  for  good  nutrition  and  for  Other 
satisfactions  and  enjoyments. 

Technological  advances  in  food 
production,  processing,  marketing,  and 
preparation  for  eating  have  greatly 
reduced  the  labor  required  in  the 
home  in  order  to  feed  a  family.  The 
effort  that  used  to  go  into  home  pro- 
duction and  preparation  is  usually 
directed  now  toward  earning  money 
and  then  deciding  how  to  spend  it — on 
food  and  other  goods  and  services  we 
need  and  want. 

Even  when  there  is  a  comfortable 
amount  of  money  to  spend  for  food, 
deciding  how  to  spend  it  is  a  responsi- 
bility whether  you  are  buying  for  a 
family  of  one  or  ten.  Collectively,  you 
spend  billions  of  dollars  a  year  for  food. 
The  decisions  you  make — about  what 
and  how  much  to  buy — directly  affect 
your  health  and  your  family's  and 
thus  the  Nation's  health.  Your  choices 
influence  the  kinds  and  forms  of  food 

348 


products  put  onto  the  market.  When 
you  buy  intelligently  you  help  shape 
the  markets  for  better  products. 

All  these  decisions  require  time  and 
thought.  Often  they  are  "hard"  to 
make — not  hard  in  terms  of  laboring 
to  produce  and  prepare  food,  but  hard 
in  terms  of  knowing  vital  facts  about 
food  and  nutritional  needs  on  which 
to  make  wise  choices. 

Perhaps  these  guidelines  will  be  a 
help  to  you: 

Stop  and  decide  on  priorities  worthy 
of  your  time  and  attention.  Food 
deserves  to  be  among  the  top  ones. 
Good  food  contributes  to  good  living 
as  evidenced  by  physical,  mental,  and 
social  well-being.  There  is  a  cause 
and  effect  relationship  between  the 
kind  and  amount  of  food  you  eat  and 
your  level  of  well-being.  There  is  also 
a  cause  and  effect  relationship  between 
your  level  of  well-being  and  the 
attainment  of  the  goals  in  your  life. 
The  home  may  no  longer  be  the  chief 
place  where  food  is  produced  and 
prepared.  But  food  is  a  large  and 
important  part  of  everyone's  environ- 
ment, and  much  of  the  training  for 
meaningful  living  at  every  age  occurs 
in  association  with  food. 

Look  for  dependable  sources  of 
information  and  aids  to  guide  you  in 
decision-making.  This  Yearbook  was 
written  just  for  the  purpose  of  helping 
you  choose  and  use  food  to  give  you 
maximum  benefits.  Fortunately,  many 
good  sources  of  information  are  avail- 
able to  you — beginning  with  your  local 
library  and  extending  to  your  State 
university  and  on  to  your  Federal 
Government. 

Learn  what  is  being  done  to  help 
you  meet  your  responsibility  for  feed- 
ing yourself  and  your  family  well. 
You  are  not  expected  to  do  the  job 
alone.  The  chief  source  of  help  is  your 
local,  State,  or  Federal  Government. 
It  can  and  does  act  to  keep  adulter- 
ated, unwholesome,  or  contaminated 
products  off  the  market.  It  can  provide 
for  enrichment  of  salt  with  iodine,  or 


Dr.  Ruth  M.  Leverton  is  an  Assistant  Deputy 
Administrator,  Agricultural  Research  Service. 


of  refined  cereals  with  B  vitamins  and 
certain  minerals  or  milk  with  vitamin 
D.  It  can  distribute  food  for  dietary 
improvement  among  schoolchildren 
and  needy  families.  It  does  all  this  and 
it  can  do  much  more  if  such  services 
are  wanted  and  supported  by  the 
general  public. 

A  relatively  small  number  of  public 
leaders  can  make  decisions  and  take 
action  in  the  treatment  and  control  of 
many  diseases  through  vaccination, 
immunization,  sanitation,  a  safe  water 
supply,  specific  drug  therapy,  and 
other  public  health  measures.  But 
wise  food  selection  in  the  market  or  at 
the  table  cannot  be  accomplished  by 
government  action. 


No  one  can  compel  each  person  to 
eat  an  adequate  diet  even  when  the 
food  is  available,  or  even  when  the 
food  is  free.  Government  cannot  de- 
cide for  people  the  choices  or  combina- 
tions to  make  among  the  many,  many 
foods  available  to  them,  or  the  propor- 
tions in  which  to  balance  one  kind  of 
foodstuff  with  another,  and  how  to 
balance  total  calorie  supply  against 
total  calorie  need.  These  choices  and 
the  resulting  level  of  nutritional  well- 
being  lie  with  the  millions  of  indi- 
viduals. Right  or  wrong  decisions  in 
the  market  and  at  the  table  will  make 
the  difference  between  good  nutrition 
and  malnutrition,  between  vigor  and 
vulnerability. 


Photography 


U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  photographers  took  the  bulk  of  the  photo- 
graphs reproduced  in  this  Yearbook.  A  new  regulation  by  the  Joint  Committee 
on  Printing,  however,  was  interpreted  as  making  it  no  longer  possible  to  give 
credit  to  Federal  Government  photographers  for  work  done  as  part  of  their 
regular  duties.  Hence  the  individual  credits  given  below  do  not  include  work 
by  USDA  staff  photographers. 

Prints  of  most  of  the  black  and  white  photos  in  this  book  may  be  obtained 
from  the  Photography  Division,  Office  of  Information,  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Washington,  D.C.  20250.  These  arc  free  to  news  media;  a  nominal 
fee  is  charged  others.  News  media  may  borrow  duplicate  color  slides  of  many 
of  the  color  photos  from  the  Photography  Division.  These  slides  may  also  be 
purchased.  In  ordering  prints  or  slides,  please  refer  to  the  1969  Yearbook  and 
give  the  page  number. 

The  Editor  is  deeply  indebted  to  the  companies  and  organizations  and  the 
State  land-grant  universities  that  provided  photos  for  the  Yearbook,  and 
which  are  credited.  And  he  is,  of  course,  as  deeply  indebted  to  the  many  anony- 
mous USDA  photographers  whose  contributions  help  illustrate  the  book.  A 
USDA  photographer  is  pictured  at  the  foot  of  this  page. 

Please  note  that  the  first  32  pages  of  this  Yearbook  carry  no  page  numbers. 
However,  Page  I  is  the  page  on  which  the  first  color  photo  appears.  In  the 
photo  credits,  pages  are  numbered  consecutively  with  Roman  numerals  from 
this  point  on  through  the  color  section.  Credits  with  Arabic  numerals  indicate 
black  and  white  photos  further  back  in  the  book. 


350 


Agricultural  Extension  Service,   University 

of  California,  photos  by  William  Gelling, 

cover  (bottom),  pages  93  (top),  280  (both 

photos),  283. 
American  Dairy  Association,  all  3  photos, 

pages  xvi  and  xvn. 
American  Institute  of  Baking,  291. 
Automatic  Retailers  of  America,   Inc.,  xi 

(top),  xi  (lower  right),  54. 
Black  Star,  photo  by  Ted  Rozumalski,   16 

(top). 
Campbell  Soup  Company,  xvm  (top). 
Chain  Store  Age,  41  (right),  47,  50. 
Cooperative   Extension    Service,    Louisiana 

State   University,    photo    by   Arthur   V. 

Patterson,  298. 
Dairy  Council  of  Metropolitan  New  York, 

endsheet  (top  left). 
Delmarva  Poultry  Industry,  xxxi  (bottom). 
Del  Monte  Corporation,  photo  by  Ernest 

Braun,  vm. 
Dudley-Anderson-Yutzy,  xvm  (bottom),  xx 

(top),  xxiv  (top),  xxix  (top),  195. 
Evaporated  Milk  Association,  233. 
FMC  Corporation,  43. 
General  Foods  Corporation,  30,  59. 
General  Mills,  Inc.,  xxii,  158,  207,  208,  219, 

220,  222  (top),  288. 
Giant  Food  Corporation,  xm  (top). 


Green  Giant  Company,  xxix  (bottom). 

Harshe-Rotman  &  Druck  Inc.,  7. 

Hot  Shoppes,  63,  253  (center). 

House  Beautiful  Magazine,  photo  by  Arthur 

Beck,  xrv. 
McCormick  &  Company,  Inc.,  xm  (bottom), 

250  (top,.bottom). 
National  Dairy  Council,   xxi   (top),   xxv, 

151  (top),  179,  275,  276,  278,  302. 
National  Live  Stock  &  Meat  Board,  xii,  277. 
National  Peanut  Council,  xxvn  (bottom), 

200,  201. 
National  Soft  Drink  Association,  xxx. 
National  Turkey  Federation,  119. 
New  York  State  College  of  Human  Ecology, 

Cornell    University,    photos    by    George 

Lavris,  308,  309. 
Pan  American  Coffee  Bureau,  19,  329. 
Pickle   Packers   International,    Inc.,    xxvni 

(top),  246. 
Poultry  and  Egg  National  Board,  xv  (top), 

xxvni  (bottom). 
Quaker  Oats  Company,  52. 
Safeway  Stores,  Inc.,  26. 
Sunkist  Growers,  Inc.,  n  and  in,  xix  (top 

left),  xxvi,  xxxi  (top). 
Swift  &  Company,  256. 
Daniel  A.  Swope,  341 . 
Wheat  Flour  Institute,  214  (bottom). 


351 


Index 


Additives,  in  beverages,  regula- 
tions regarding,  241;  uses,  38, 
40 

Adolescents,  basal  metabolism, 
299;  dietary  needs,  299-301; 
overweight,  controlling,  300- 
301;  overweight,  most  effec- 
tive reduction  method,  312; 
overweight,  special  problems, 
312;  special  problems,  300- 
301;  suggested  food  intake, 
300;  underweight,  301 

Adults,  basal  metabolism,  301; 
dietary  needs,  301;  maintain- 
ing weight  control,  301;  role 
of  snacks  in  eating  habits, 
277-278;  weight  control,  prob- 
lem, 312-313 

Advertising,  importance  in  intro- 
ducing new  foods,  40—41 

Africa,   diet-deficit  areas,   83 

Agribusiness,  capital  invested,  6; 
industrial  network  to  meet 
consumer  needs,  6;  number  of 
employees,  6-7 

Agricultural    Adjustment    Act,    67 

Agricultural  experiment  stations, 
role  in  human  nutrition  re- 
search, 324 

Agricultural  export  flow,  growth  in 
si2e  and  diversity,  77 

Agricultural  products,  number  ex- 
ported, 75 

Agriculture,  contributor  to  pollu- 
tion and  waste,  89;  Depart- 
ment of,  role  in  human  nutri- 
tion research,  324;  effects  of 
release  of  manpower  from 
farms,  U.S.,  13;  increased 
productivity,  benefits,  13-14; 
increased  productivity,  effects 
on  standard  of  living,  13;  in- 
creased work  rate  since  1950, 
13;  revolution  in,  new  hope 
for  many  nations,  81-86;  rev- 
olutionary advances,  realistic 
look  at.  88-89 

Aides,  program,  role  in  Exten- 
sion nutrition  programs,  321- 
323:  training  in  food  and  nu- 
trition, 323;  training  to  cope 
with  problems  of  poor,  322- 
323 

Air,   use  as  leavening  agent,    220 

Air-classification    milling.    27 

Alaska,  major  farm  products,  10; 
number  of  farms,  10 


Aluminum,  use  in  food  packag- 
ing, 35 

Anderson,  Alexander,  206 

Appalachian  region,  farming  com- 
modities produced,  9 

Appetite,  controlling  mechanism, 
311 

Apples,  buying  and  storage  tips, 
163 

Apricots,  buying  and  storage  tips, 
163 

Arabica,  coffee  varieties,  imported, 
18 

Artichokes,  buying  and  cooking 
tips,  178 

Asia,  diet-deficitareas.  83 

Asparagus,  buying  and  cooking 
tips,  179  . 

Avocados,  buying  and  storage  tips, 
163 


Bakers,  percent  of  bread  price  re- 
ceived, 27;  percent  profit  on 
bread  sales,  28 

Baking,  fruit,  171-172;  import 
ance  of  measuring  ingredients 
221,  222,  223;  preparation 
221,  222.  223;  seafood,  134 

Baking  powder,  measuring,  221. 
use  as  leavening  agent,  220-^ 
221 

Baking  soda,  use  as  leavening 
agent,  220 

Balance  of  payments,  effect  of  ag- 
ricultural exports,  77 

Bananas,  amount  imported  an- 
nually, 19;  amount  spent  for 
imports,  19;  amount  used  per 
person,  19;  buying  and  storage 
tips,  163;  imports,  sources,  19 

Barbecue-brunch,  menu  sugges- 
tions, 330 

Barbecues,  meat  ideas,  334;  origin, 
333-334;  sauces,  recipes.  335; 
tips  for  success,  335-336 

Barley,  principal  growing  areas, 
206;  uses,  208,  215 

Basal  metabolic  rate,  305 

Basal  metabolism,  adolescents, 
299;  adults,  301;  defined, 
294;  elderly,  303 

Batcher,  Olive  M.,  94-116 


Battle  Creek  Board  of  Education, 
207 

Beans,  as  source  of  protein,  281; 
dry,  nutritional  value,  316; 
green  and  wax,  buying  and 
cooking  tips,  179-180;  lima, 
buying  and  cooking  tips,   180 

Beef,  carcass,  cuts  made  from,  96; 
cooked,  characteristics,  111; 
cooking  methods,  suitable 
cuts,  112,  113;  description, 
94;  grades,  100-102;  imports, 
amount  annually,  19;  imports, 
sources,  19;  increased  popular- 
ity, 51;  major  producing 
areas,  10:  purchasing,  retail 
cuts  vs.  side,  107-108 

Beets,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
180-181 

Beriberi,  259 

Beverages,  237-243;  additives,  reg- 
ulations regarding,  241;  car- 
bonated, 239;  grading,  241- 
242;  home  storage,  242;  label- 
ing regulations,  241;  made 
from  fruit  juices,  239;  market 
forms,  237-238;  percent  of 
food  dollar  spent  for,  237; 
recipes.  243 

Billion  Dollar  Export  Club,  75 

Bird,  Kermit,  24-35, 

Birth  rates,  balancing,  to  help 
solve  world  food  problem,  83 

Blanching,  nuts,  201 

Blueberries,  buying  and  storage 
tips,  164 

Body  build,  relation  to  heredity, 
306;  relation  to  weight,  306 

Boiling,  seafood,  137 

Boys,  adolescent,  suggested  food 
intake,  300;  teenage,  snack 
preferences,  275 

Brains,  cooking,  115 

Braising,  meat,  113-114;  poultry, 
122 

Bread,  and  bakery  products,  daily 
consumption,  266;  and  pastry, 
213-225;  cereal  grains  used  in 


making,  213,  21};  enrichment, 
216;  flours,  uses,  215;  freez- 
ing, 218;  labeling  regulations, 
217;  preparing,  for  outdoor 
meals,  330;  processing,  25-28; 
products,  market  forms  avail- 
able, 213;  quick,  219;  yeast, 
methods  of  combining  in- 
gredients, 223 
Breadmaking,     ingredients,     219- 

221;  use  of  additives,  217 
Breakfast,  importance  of,  320 
Breeding,  research,  results,  88 
Brix/acid  ratio,  242 
Broccoli,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 

181 
Brogdon,  Jennie  L.,  146-159 
Broiler  farming,  major  areas,  9 
Broiling,    fruit,    171;    meat,    112- 
113;    poultry,     122;     seafood, 
134-135 
Brokers,  role  in  food  industry,  42, 

44 
Browne,  Margaret  C,  319-324 
Brussels  sprouts,  buying  and  cook- 
ing tips,  181-182 
Buckwheat,  uses,  215 
Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics,  57 
Burkart,  Audrey  C,  273-278 
Butter,  grading,  227;  history  of  in- 
dustry,    152;    home    storage, 
152-153,  228;  nutritive  value, 
317;     quality     grades,      152; 
standards    of    identity,    227; 
types.  152;  uses,  153 
Buttermilk,  use  in  cooking,  148 


Cabbage,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
182;  Chinese,  see  Greens, 
salad. 

Cakebaking,  methods  of  combin- 
ing ingredients,   223-224 

Cake,  flours,  uses,  215;  freezing, 
218;  testing  for  doneness,  224 

Calcium,  deficiency  disease,  259 

Calf,  description,  94 

Calipers,  skinfold,  use  in  measur- 
ing body  fatness,  308 

Calorie  deficit,  grain  needs  to 
eliminate,  83 

Calories,  amount  needed,  294;  de- 
fined, 304,  315 

Camping,  building  fires  for  cook- 
ing, 338;  cooking  utensils, 
improvising,  336-338;  food 
ideas,  336;  planning,  336; 
uses  of  dairy  products,  336 

Canning,  aseptic,  uses,  37-38 

Cans,  tins,  changes,  35 

Cantaloups,  buying  and  storage 
tips,  164-165 

Carbohydrates,  as  structural  com- 
ponents of  body,  255;  sources, 
317;  use  as  fuel  for  body,  255, 
257 

Carbon  dioxide,  use  as  leavening 
agent,  220-221 

Cargo  planes,  use  in  food  trans- 
porting, 23 

Carlisle,  Helen,  249-252 

Carrots,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
182-183 

Castille,  Michael  A.,   174-195 

Catfish,  16 

Cattle,  meat  produced  from,  94 

Cauliflower,  buying  and  cooking 
tips,  183-184 

Celery,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
184 

Central  America,  diet-deficit  areas, 
83 

Cereal  grains  products,  buying  tips, 
217;  consumption,  changes  in, 
266-267;  daily  consumption, 
266;  enrichment,  216;  freezing, 
218;  home  storage,  217-218; 
nutritional     value,      316-317; 


recipes,  224-223;  recom- 
mended daily  intake,  282 

Cereal  Institute,  Inc.,  210 

Cereals,  and  cereal  products,  cook- 
ing, 207;  buying  tips,  282, 
283;  cooking,  206;  cost  per 
person,  282;  home  storage, 
209;  importance  in  diets,  205- 
212;  necessity  for  civilization, 
205;  nutritional  value,  205; 
parts,  205;  protein  deficits, 
205;  quick  cooking,  process- 
ing, 207;  ready-to-eat,  devel- 
opment, 206;  recipes,  210-212; 
relative  cost,  209-210;  uses, 
208-209 

Cheese,  buying  tips,  281,  288; 
coldpack  or  club,  155;  cook- 
ing hints,  157;  freezing,  156; 
grading  and  inspection,  155- 
156;  home  storage,  156;  label- 
ing, 155;  natural,  varieties, 
153-154;  pasteurized  process, 
154-155;  ripened,  154;  serv- 
ing suggestions,  156-157;  un- 
ripenedVl54 

Chemicals,  dangers  of  use  in  ag- 
riculture, 89 

Cherries,  sweet,  buying  and  stor- 
age tips,  164 

Chestnuts,  buying  tips,  198;  roast- 
ing, 201 

Chicago  Board  of  Trade,  7 

Chickens,  broiler-fryer,  production 
areas,  117;  see  also  Poultry. 

Chicory,  or  endive,  see  Greens, 
salad. 

Child  food  service,  activities,  ap- 
propriations by  Congress,  73; 
expenditure,      74;      programs, 

f>al,  74 
Nutrition  Act,  73 

Children,  nutritional  programs 
for,  73;  overweight,  special 
considerations,  312;  preschool, 
changes  in  eating  habits,  297; 
preschool,  dietary  needs,  298; 
preschool,  use  of  snacks,  274; 
school  age,  role  of  snacks  in 
eating  habits,  275;  weight 
status,  evaluating,  308 

Chocolate,  beverages,  origin,  240; 
earliest  use,  237;  liquor,  240; 
milk,  241 

Cholesterol,  317 

Clams,  edible  species,  128;  market 
forms,  128-129 

Clark,  Faith,  266-272 

Clement.  Wendell,  2-7 

Cocoa,  beans,  sources,  18;  beans, 
types,  18;  Dutch-process,  241; 
forms  and  percent  fat,  240- 
241;  imports,  amount  spent 
for  annually,  18 

Coconuts,  buying  tips,  198;  pre- 
paring, 201 

Coffee,  amount  used  per  house- 
hold, 237;  brewing,  240;  de- 
cline in  use,  53;  earliest  use, 
237;  flavor,  240;  maintaining 
quality,  242;  major  types  im- 
ported, 18;  preparing,  243; 
testing,  239,  240 

Coffee  Brewing  Institute,  243 

Commodity  donation  program,  69; 
financial  assistance  to  counties 
by  USDA,  70,  71;  in  counties 
which  refused  program,  70 

Communications,  role  in  food 
transporting  system,  21 

Community  meals,  advantages, 
339;  buying  guide,  346;  con- 
trolling costs,  340;  directions 
and  timetable  for  roasting 
meats,  345,  346;  dishwashing, 
344;  disposing  of  leftovers, 
340-341;  food  preparation, 
340-341;     food     temperature 


control,  342-343;  functions  of 
committees,  339;  menu  plan- 
ning, 340;  menu  suggestions, 
345;  organizing  work,  339; 
keeping  out  insects  and  ro- 
dents, 344;  quantities  and 
measures,  344-345;  recipes, 
345,  347;  recordkeeping,  342; 
role  of  general  chairman,  339; 
safety  precautions,  342;  tips  on 
cooking  equipment,  343-344; 
types  of  service,  341 

Computers,  role  in  food  transport- 
ing system,  2J-22 

Consumer  Price  Index,  56-57 

Containerization,  importance  in 
food  transporting,  21 

Continuous-mix  process,  for  bread 
baking,  25-27 

Contract  farming,  crops  involved 
13 

Cookies,   freezing,  218 

Cooking,  charcoal,  directions,  335; 
charcoal,  seafood,  135;  equip- 
ment, tips,  343-344;  outdoor, 
best  woods  for  fires,  338;  out- 
doors, planning,  330;  out- 
doors, recipes,  330;  outdoors, 
safety  tips,  331-332;  outdoors, 
types  of  fire,  338;  utensils  for 
campers,  improvising,  336- 
338 

Cooperative  Extension  Service, 
channels  for  distributing  nu- 
trition information,  321;  nu- 
trition education  programs, 
321-324;  special  audiences 
reached,  323-324 

Corn,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
184-185;  cost  per  acre,  12; 
major  producing  areas,  10; 
principal  producers,  206;  prod- 
ucts, changes  in  usage,  53; 
uses,  208-209,  215;  yield  in- 
crease since  1950,  12 

Corn  Belt,  characteristics,  10;  chief 
farm  products,  10;  percent  of 
food  supply  provided  by,  10 

Counties,  low-income,  lack  of  food 
assistance  programs,  70 

Crabs,  market  forms,  129;  princi- 
pal species,  129 

Cranberries,  buying  and  storage 
tips,  164 

Cream,  ice,  see  Ice  cream;  sour, 
uses,  150;  sweet,  uses,  150; 
whipped,  preparation  and  uses, 
150-151 

Crops,  cost  per  acre,  12;  overpro- 
duction, programs  to  alleviate, 
67 

Crosby,  Violet  B.,  117-126 

Crowther,  H.  E.,  15-17 

Crustaceans,  edible  species,  128, 
129,  130,  131 

Cucumbers,  buying  and  cooking 
tips,  185;  pickling,  244-245 

Curdling,  causes,  149 


Dairy  products,   146-159;  changes 
in  usage,  52;  nutritional  value, 
316 
Daly,  Rex  F.,  87-92 
Dates,  buying  and  storage  tips,  164 
Dawson,  Elsie  H.,  174-195 
DeLoach,  D.  B.,  45-50 
Demus,  Theresa  A.,  213-225 
Desserts,  dairy,  frozen,   151-152 
Developing  countries,   number  in- 
dependent   since  World   War 
II,    84;   per  capita   food  pro- 
duction,   83:    production    in- 
crease necessary  for  independ- 
ence, 85-86 
Dietary  needs,  amounts  met  by  U.S. 
households,  267 


354 


Dieting,  finding  best  plan,  313- 
314;  things  to  remember,  314 

Diets,  age  groups  needing  special 
emphasis,  272;  average  Ameri- 
can, present  outlook,  266- 
272;  effects  of  altering  nu- 
trient intake,  311;  fad,  reason 
for  poor  food  habits,  320; 
future,  91;  good,  denned, 
319;  good,  importance  at  var- 
ious growth  levels,  295; 
household,  nutritional  qual- 
ity, 269-270;  improved,  age 
groups  in  need  of,  319-320; 
improving,  ways  and  means, 
319-324;  poor,  dominant 
causes,  260-271;  poor,  rea- 
sons, 320,  321;  quality,  rela- 
tion to  income,  270-271;  re- 
gional differences,  271 

Ducks,  production  areas,  117;  see 
also  Poultry. 

Dunham,  Denis  F.,  55-61 

Dunn,  Charlotte  M.,  330-338 

Durost,  Donald  D.,  8-14 

Eating,    frequency,   effect  on  con- 
version of  food  to  fat,   311; 
habits,    changes   over   last   20 
years,     51-54;    places,     basic 
types,  62;   places,    changes  in 
customer  food  preferences,  63- 
64;    places,    development    of 
chains,    63,    64,    65;    places, 
kinds    of    meals    served,     63; 
places,    menu   variations,    63; 
places,  public,  number,  62 
Economies  of  scale,  29,  46 
Ectomorphs,  description,  306 
Eggplant,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 

185 
Eggs.  139-145;  breakout  test,  141; 
buying    tips,    141,    288;    can- 
dling,       140;        consumption 
trends,  92;  cooking  tips,  143- 
144;  daily  consumption,  266; 
decline  in  usage,  52,  53;  fresh, 
characteristics,   141-142;  hard 
cooked,    142;    home    storage, 
requirements,   141;  new  proc- 
essed products,   143;  nutritive 
value,    139,    281,    316;   proc- 
essing,  142-143;  quality  con- 
trol methods,   140-141;  qual- 
ity grades,    139-140;    recipes, 
144-145;  role  in  breadmaking, 
221;      suggested     uses,      143; 
USDA  grading  program,  140; 
weight  per  dozen,  140;  white, 
characteristics,   142;  yolk,  142 
Elderly,    basal    metabolism,     303; 
body  changes  that  occur  with 
aging,  303;  dietary  needs,  303; 
role  of  snacks  in  eating  habits, 
277-278;  special  dietary  prob- 
lems,   303;    special    Extension 
nutrition  programs  for,  323 
Emulsions,  use  of  fats  in,  230-231 
Endomorphs,  description,  306 
Energy,  body  uses,  304-305;  most 
concentrated  food  sources,  317; 
needs,    factors   affecting,    305; 
units  of  measure,  315 
Enrichment,  of  foods,  317-318 
Entertaining,  easy,  planning,  325- 

329;  recipes  for,  327-329 

European  Economic  Community,  80 

Exchange  system,   role  in  guiding 

decisions    in     food     industry, 

5-6 

Expansion,    by    food    processors, 

types,  31 
Exports,  agricultural,  commercial 
sales,  76-77;  agricultural, 
major,  75;  agricultural,  num- 
ber, 75;  commercial  sales, 
effect  on  balance  of  payments 
problem,  77;  future,  effect  on 


agriculture,  91-92;  promotion 
techniques,    in    foreign    coun- 
tries, 78-80 
Extension,   see  Cooperative  Exten- 
sion Service. 

Fair  Packaging  and  Labeling  Act, 

241 
Families,  farm,  food  consumption 
patterns,  271;  food  planning, 
at  different  cost  levels,  279- 
285;  percent  eating  meals 
away  from  home,  271-272 
Far  East,  animal  protein  consumed 

daily,  267 
Farmer,  and  his  farm,  where  food 
originates,  8-14;  amount  spent 
annually  for  goods  and  serv- 
ices,   13-14;   average    net   in- 
come, 11;  better  than  average, 
crop  costs  per  acre,  12;  diffi- 
culties   in    balancing   produc- 
tion with  demand,  66;  effects 
of   Great  Depression,  67;   in- 
come from  food  sales,  58;  past 
problems,   66-67;   problem  of 
price  variability,    12-13;  pro- 
duction expenses,  per  dollar  of 
sales,    12;   programs   to    alle- 
viate overproduction,  67;  role 
in  developing  new  foods,  37; 
sales,  amount  needed  for  mini- 
mum living  level,    11;   U.S., 
supplier   of   food    for   world, 
75-80;    value    of    exports    in 
world  markets,  75 
Farming,  changes,  66;  coordinated, 
13;    effects    of    technological 
revolution,  66;  equipment  and 
automobiles,      amount     spent 
for,  12;  future  predictions,  14; 
trend  toward  greater  speciali- 
zation, 11-12 
Farmland,    unused,     making    pro- 
ductive, 88 
Farm  prices,  causes  of  fluctuations, 
58;    relation    to    grocery   boy- 
cotts, 58 
Farm    production,    future,    projec- 
tion,   92;    increase    over    last 
three  decades,  88 
Farm  products,  amount  transported 
annually,  20;  dollar  value  of 
exports,  75,  76;  exported,  in- 
creases, 77;  price  decline  after 
World  War  I,  67 
Farm  programs,   effect  of  absence 
of,    67-68;    role    in    assuring 
U.S.     food     supply,     66-68; 
types,  67 
Farms,  average,  number  of  major 
enterprises,    11;    average  size, 
10;    commercial,    main    loca- 
tions,   11;   family,   percent  of 
all  farms  in  U.S.,  11;  factors 
affecting    types    of    crops,    9; 
gains  in  productivity,  5;  num- 
ber,  10;  number,  future,  pro- 
jection,  92;  number  of  paid 
workers,  9;  number  of  people 
still    living   on,    10;    regional 
determination  of  crops,  9-10; 
sales    levels,    11;    3    million 
plus,  average  size,  11 
Farrell,  Kenneth  R.,  2-7 
Fats,  and  oils,  226-231;  and  oils, 
consumption    trends,    92;    and 
oils,   daily  consumption,    266; 
and    oils,     recipes,     230;     as 
structural  component  of  body, 
255;  buying  tips,  283:  caloric 
content,     309;     deterioration, 
causes,       228;       distribution, 
which  can  not  be  controlled, 
307;  food  sources,  317;  from 
soybeans,    deterioration,    228; 
importance  in  diet,  317;  label- 
ing regulations,   228;  measur- 


ing, 221;  oil-in-water  emul- 
sions, 230-231;  polyunsatu- 
rated, 317;  rancidity,  delaying, 
227;  reduced  intake,  relation 
to  weight  loss,  309;  role  in 
breadmaking,  221;  role  in 
cakebaking,  229;  saturated, 
317;  shortening  power,  differ- 
ences, 228-229;, smoke  points, 
229;  solid,  origin  and  compo- 
sition, 226;  unsaturated,  317; 
use  as  fuel  for  body,  255,  257; 
vegetable,  composition,  226 
Favorable  trade  balance,  77 
Federal  Farm  Board,  67 
Federal  Food,  Drug  and  Cosmetic 

Act,  4    216,  238,  241 
Federal  Wholesome  Meat  Act,  94 
Feed  grains,  value  as  export,  75 
Fertilizers,    nitrogen,    dangers    of 

use,  89 
Figs,  buying  and  storage  tips,  164 
Films,  uses  in  food  packaging,  35 
Fires,   types  for  outdoor  cooking, 

338 
Fish,    15-17;    and   shellfish,    127- 
138;    and    shellfish,    amount 
imported,  17;  buying  tips,  281; 
canned,  types,  128;  cross  sec- 
tions,   127;  cured,    128;  daily 
consumption,     266;     dressed, 
127;    fillets,    types,    127-128; 
fresh,      characteristics,      127; 
frozen,     types,     128;    market 
forms,     127-128;     nutritional 
value,  316;  total  used  in  1957, 
17;  whole,  127;  see  also  Sea- 
food. 
Fisheries,   effects  of  foreign   com- 
petition,   17 
Fish  farming,  supplement  to  com- 
mercial eaten,  17 
Fishing,  commercial  advances,  17; 
fleet,  U.S.,    number,   15;  ves- 
sels, percent  of  U.S.  fleet,  15 
Flour,    decline  in   use,    53;   home 
storage,    217;    labeling    regu- 
lations, 217;  measuring,  221; 
role  in  breadmaking,  219-220; 
types  and  uses,  215 
Foods,  additives,  38,  40;  air  ship- 
ment, advantage,  23;  amount 
consumed  a  year,  8;   amount 
consumed  daily  in  1965,  266, 
272;  amount  purchased  annu- 
ally in  U.S.,  53;  amount  pur- 
chased with  hour's  wages,  61; 
basic  nutritional   needs,   254- 
259;  buying,  guidelines,   348- 
349;  buying,  money  stretching 
ideas,  286-293;  buying,   rela- 
tion of  income  to  prices,  53; 
changes  in  uses,  266;  choosing, 
factors  affecting,  260-261,  266, 
267-268;    cold,    maintaining, 
332;  conducive  to  growth  of 
bacteria,     332;     consumption, 
rural-urban     food    differences, 
271;  consumption  trends,  92; 
convenience,  value,  284;  con- 
version by  body  into  nutrients, 
254-255;  dehydrated,  38,   39; 
dietary  groups,   205;  distribu- 
tion, increased  annual  output, 
5;    eaten    away    from    home, 
amount  spent  for,  62;   eaten 
away  from  home,  percent  of 
families,  271-272;  enough  in 
the  future,  outlook,  87-92 ;  en- 
richment laws,  317;  exported, 
75-80;  for  community  meals, 
buying  guide,   346;  for  com- 
munity    meals,     maintaining 
temperature  control,  342-343; 
for   community   meals,    safety 
precautions,  342-343;  for  en- 
tertaining,    suggestions,     325 ; 
fortified,  defined,  216;  freeze- 
drying,  uses,  38;  freezing,  new 


355 


methods,  32;  freezing,  new 
techniques  and  uses,  38;  freez- 
ing, tips,  290;  frying,  type  of 
fat  to  use,  229;  grouping  by 
nutritional  value,  315-316; 
groups,  294;  groups,  peak 
years  of  intake,  268-269; 
guide  for  all  ages,  294-303; 
guide,  261-262;  home  storage, 
290;  imitation,  40;  imported, 
percentage,  8;  imports,  by  de- 
veloping countries,  83-84;  in- 
novations, reasons  for  develop- 
ing, 36-37;  inspection,  33; 
kinds  transported  by  air,  23; 
kinds  transported  by  water,  23; 
labeling  requirements,  33;  left- 
overs, serving  ideas,  292-293; 
marketing  system,  function  58- 
60;  marketing  system,  rising 
costs,  59;  misconceptions 
which  hinder  weight  loss,  309; 
most  perishable,  343 ;  new,  for 
wide  consumer  choice.  36-41; 
new,  importance  of  advertis- 
ing, 40-41;  nutritive  values, 
315-318;  packaged,  buying 
tips,  290;  packaging,  33-35; 
packaging,  new  developments, 
40,  41;  packaging,  types,  35; 
percentage  of  income  spent 
for,  54;  planning,  for  families 
at  different  cost  levels,  279- 
285:  preparation,  rules  for 
workers,  340,  343;  prices,  fac- 
tors to  consider,  281,  282,  283, 
284,    285;   processing,    24-35; 

§  recessing,  adapting  to  market 
emands,  28;  processing,  busi- 
ness   management,    32;    proc- 
essing, future  predictions,  33; 
processing,    increased    annual 
output,     5;    processing,     new 
techniques  for  restaurants,  64; 
processing,    new    uses    of   in- 
gredients,   32-33;    processing, 
role  of  technological  advances, 
28,  29,  31;  processing,  special 
techniques,   37-38;  processors, 
advantage  of  large  over  small, 
29;  processors,  expansions  and 
mergers,  31;  processors,  pack- 
aging  demands,    34-35;    pro- 
duction, as  economic  process, 
87;  protein-rich,  buying  tips, 
281;  "puff"  process,  new  uses, 
38:   quality,   factors   to   con- 
sider, 283;  safe  temperatures, 
for  outdoor  eating,  331;  serv- 
ing ideas,  292;  serving  varia- 
tions.   291;    shopping,    habits 
to    develop,    279-280;     shop- 
ping, how  to  make  a  list,  287; 
shopping,   pointers  on  prices, 
289-290;    shopping,    ways    of 
getting  most   for   least,    286; 
shopping   tips,    for   entertain- 
ing,   325,    326;   showcase,    at 
supermarkets,    45-50;    sources 
of  iron,   295;   storage  of  sur- 
pluses,  3;   supplies,   effect  of 
recent  developments,  88;  sup- 
plies, relation  to  world  popu- 
lation, 89-90;  telescoped  view 
of  Nation's   use,    51-54;   the 
transporters,  20-23;  transport- 
ing, methods,  22-23;  use,  pat- 
terns in  American  diets,  266- 
272;    utilization,    relation    to 
body   weight,    311;    wastage, 
avoiding,  291;  where  it  origi- 
nates,      8-14;      wholesaling, 
future  projections,  43 
Food  aid,  availability  to  develop- 
ing countries,  85;  to  less  de- 
veloped  countries,    75-76;   to 
needy  countries,  dollar  value, 
76 


Food  Aid  Convention,  86 
Food  aid  program,  to  developing 
countries,  self-help  stipulation, 
76 
Food    and    Agriculture    Organiza- 
tion, 267 
Food    and    Drug    Administration, 
230;   regulation  of  flour  and 
bakery  industries,   216,  217 
Food    and   Nutrition    Board,    71, 
216,  259,  261,  267,  269,  270, 
294,  319 
Food    assistance    programs,    drive 
to   teach   good   nutrition,    74; 
goal.  73,  74;  improvements  in 
nutritional  variety  of  foods  of- 
fered,   69-70,    71;   review   of 
geographic    coverage,    70;    to 
combat  hunger  and  poor  nu- 
trition in  UTS.,  69-74 
Food  for  Freedom  Act,  86 
Food  for  freedom  program,  85 
Food  for  peace  program,  76 
Food  gap,  between  production  and 
consumption,      83-85;     major 
causes,  84-85 
Food   habits,    changing   to    reduce 
weight,  310;  effect  of  home  en- 
vironment, 262 ;  effect  of  nurs- 
ery   school,    262-263;    effects 
of  schools,  263-264;  effect  of 
snacks,  264-265;  good,  creat- 
ing, 260-265;  role  of  snacks, 
273-278 
Food  Index,  means  of  determining 

price  changes,  56 
Food  industry,  and  the  consumer, 
2-7;    competition,    values   of, 
60;    consumer    responsibilities 
toward,  7;  coordination  by  ex- 
change system,  5-6;  effect  of 
growing    affluence,    4;    effects 
of  improved  efficiency,  5;  ful- 
filling  needs    for    foods    and 
services,  3-4;  greatest  demands 
of  consumers,  3-4;  maintain- 
ing   quality    and     sanitation 
standards,  4;  maintaining  rea- 
sonable prices,  4-5;  need  for 
reasonable  profits,  7:  role  of 
wholesalers  and  brokers,  42- 
44 
Food  price  index,  causes  of  rise,  49 
Food    prices,     amount    going    to 
farmer,  58;  causes  of  fluctua- 
tions, 60-61;  causes  of  rise  in, 
57-58;  effect  of  labor  costs  on, 
59;   factors  affecting,    55;   in- 
crease   in    last    decade,     57; 
reasons   for   awareness    about, 
55;  shedding  light  on,  55-62; 
trends,  methods  of  measuring, 
55-56,  57 
Food  Protection  Committee,  239 
Food  retailers,  see  Grocers. 
Food  service  assistance,  for  chil- 
dren, 73 
Food  service  industry,  future  pre- 
dictions, 64-65 
Food  Stamp  Act,  70 
Food  stamp  program,  adjustments 
to  needs,  71;  proposed  modi- 
fications, 71 
Food  stores,  chains,  causes  of  in- 
creased    gross     margins,     49; 
chains,  returns  on  investments, 
59-60;    choosing,     289;     em- 
ployee     opportunities,       49; 
future  predictions,  50;  retail, 
number  of  employees,  49;  ris- 
ing costs,  49 
Food  supplies,  increase  since  1950, 

10 
Food   supply,   role   of  farm  pro- 
grams in  assuring,  66-68 
Food  system,  increased  productiv- 
ity, causes,  5 


Footwear,  increased  cost  in  last 
decade,  57 

Ford  Foundation,  81 

Foreign  markets,  efforts  behind  ex- 
pansion, 77-78;  gaining  ac- 
cess to,  77-78;  problems,  80; 
promotion    techniques,    78-79 

Foreign  trade  mission,  use  in  pro- 
moting U.S.   products,  78 

France,  percent  labor  force  on 
farms,  13 

Freeze-drying,  of  foods,  uses,  38 

Freezers,  best  temperature  for  food 
storage,   290 

Freezing,  cereal  grain  products, 
218:  cryogenic,  38;  foods,  new 
methods  and  uses,   38 

French  dressings,  calories  per  table- 
spoon, 231;  ingredients,  230; 
standards  of  identity,  231 

Fruit,  160-173;  baking,  171-172; 
broiled,  171;  browning  pre- 
vention, 166;  buying  and  stor- 
age tips,  163-166;  buying  tips, 
282,  288;  canned,  buying  tips, 
161-162;  citrus,  buying  and 
storage  tips,  164;  consump- 
tion trends,  92;  cooking  hints, 
166;  daily  consumption,  266; 
dried,  buying  hints,  162; 
drinks,  amount  used  per 
household,  237;  fresh,  buying 
tips,      161;     fresh,      cooking 

guide,  169;  frozen,  buying 
ints,  162;  grading  and  inspec- 
tion, 160-161;  home  storage, 
162-163;  juices,  buying  tips, 
282,  288;  juices,  market 
forms,  238;  juices,  standards 
of  identity,  238,  239;  nutri- 
tional value,  316;  pan-frying, 
171;  recipes,  167-173;  recom- 
mended daily  _  intake,  282; 
serving  suggestions,  166-167; 
simmered,  169-170;  uncooked, 
uses,  166-167;  uses,  changes 
in,  52,  267 

Frye,  Robert  E.,  55-61 

Frying,  deep-fat,  230;  poultry, 
123,  124;  seafood,  variations, 
135-137 

Gas,  and  electricity,  increased  cost 
in  last  decade,  57 

Geese,  see  Poultry. 

Gerald,  John  O.,  20-23 

Gilpin,  Gladys  L.,  160-173 

Girls,  adolescent,  suggested  food 
intake,  300;  teenage,  snack 
preferences,   275 

Glass,  containers  for  food,  innova- 
tions, 35 

Gliadin,  protein  in  wheat  flour, 
213,  215 

Gluten,  215 

Glutenin;  protein  in  wheat  flour, 
213,  215 

Goiter,  259        .  ,  ,      ,      , 

Grain,  amount  imported  by  devel- 
oping countries,  84;  amount 
needed  to  eliminate  calorie 
deficit,  83;  amount  shipped 
under  Public  Law  480,  85; 
consumption  trends,  92  J,  en- 
richment, 209;  from  farm  to 
table,  207-208;  used  in  bread- 
making,  213,  215;  varieties, 
205;  see  also  Cereals. 

Grapefruit,  buying  and  storage 
tips,   164 

Grapes,   buying   and   storage   tips, 

164  . 

Great  Depression,  effect  on  farm- 
ers, 67 

Great  Plains,  characteristics,  10; 
chief  farm  products,  10; 
farms,  percent  of  food  sup- 
ply provided  by,  10 


356 


Greeley,  Elinore  T.,  160-173 

Greens,  for  cooking,  buying  and 
cooking  tips,  185-186;  salad, 
buying  and  serving  tips,  186- 
187 

Grills,  burning  out,  prevention, 
335-336 

Grocers,  factors  involved  in  select- 
ing, 46:  functions,  45;  meth- 
ods used  to  maintain  sales,  46 

Grocery  boycotts,  57,  58 

Grocery  stores,  see  Food  stores; 
Supermarkets. 

Guinea  fowl,  see  Poultry. 

Gulich,  Ashley  R.,  117-126 


Hall,  Richard  L.,  249-252 

Handy,  A.  Elizabeth,    139-145 

Harp,  Harry  H.,  36-41 

Harrison,  Gail  G.,  304-314 

Hawaii,  major  farm  products,  10; 
number  of  farms,    10 

Heart,    cooking,    115 

Hens,  stewing,  production  areas, 
117;  see  also  Poultry. 

Herbs,  and  spices,  249-252;  de- 
fined, 249;  flavor  substances, 
249;  keeping  time,  251;  see 
also  Seasonings. 

Hiemstra,  Stephen  J.,  51-54 

Hill,  Mary  M.,  260-265 

Hogs,   price  variations,   12-13 

Home  economists,  role  in  Exten- 
sion nutrition  programs,  321, 
323 

Homemakers,  special  Extension  nu- 
trition programs  for,  323,  324 

Honey,  grades,  235;  home  storage, 
235;  qualities,  235;  recipes 
using,  235 

Hoofnagle,  William  S.,  36-41 

Hopper  cars,  use  in  food  trans- 
porting, 22 

Hormonal  imbalance,  effect  on 
basal  metabolic  rate,  305 

Household  Food  Consumption  Sur- 
vey, 273,  319-320 

Housing,  increased  cost  in  last  dec- 
ade, 57 

Hunger,  combating,  need  for  in- 
ternational cooperation,  86; 
programs  to  prevent,  69-74 

Hydrogenation  process,  226 

Ice  cream,  homemade,  preparation, 
151-152;  home  storage,  151; 
"imitation,"  40 

Imports,  agricultural,   18-19 

Income,  median  family,  65;  per- 
cent for  food,  future  projec- 
tion, 92;  relation  to  diet  qual- 
ity, 270-271,  320-321;  rela- 
tion to  number  of  meals  away 
from  home,  64 

India,  amount  of  labor  force  on 
farms,  13;  food  grain  har- 
vested in  1967/68,  82;  num- 
ber of  people  fed  from  U.S. 
wheat,  76 

Infants,  breast  feeding,  advan- 
tages, 296;  feeding,  use  of 
cow's  milk,  296;  newborn, 
dietary  needs,  296-297 

Insecticides,  dangers  of  use  in  ag- 
riculture, 89 

International  Grains  Arrangement, 
86 

International  Rice  Research  Insti- 
tute, 81 

Iodine,  deficiency  disease,  259 

IQF  freezing,  of  foods,  32. 

Iron,  in  diets  of  infants,  296-297; 
recommendations  for  women, 
295;  recommended  daily  in- 
take, 269;  sources,  295 

Italy,  processed  tomato  imports  to 
U.S.,  19 


Jams,  grading,   236;  standards  of 

identity,  235-236 
Japan,  increasing  trade  barriers  to 

U.S.  products,  80 
Jellies,  grading,  236;  standards  of 

identity,  235-236 


Kellogg,  John  Harvey,  206 
Kerr,  Rose  G.,  127-138 
Kennedy  Round,  foreign  trade  ne- 
gotiations, 78 
Kidneys,  cooking,  115 
Kilgore,  Lois  T.,  226-231 
Kwashiorkor,  259 


Labor,  costs,  effect  on  food  prices, 

59 
Labor   force,    percent   working   on 

farms,  13 
Lactic   acid,    use  in  breadmaking, 

217 
Lamb,  94;  carcass,  cuts  from,  98; 

cooked,     characteristics,     112; 

cooking      methods,       suitable 

cuts,  112,  113,  114 
Lard,  causes  of  reduced  use,  227; 

use  in  shortenings,  227 
Leavening,  types  used  in  breadmak- 
ing, 220-221 
Leeks,  buying  tips,  189 
Lemons,   buying  and  storage  tips, 

164;  drinks,  standards  of  iden- 
tity, 239 
Lentils,  source  of  protein,  281 
Lettuce,    types,    186-187;    uses    in 

saladmaking,  187 
Leverton,  Ruth  M.,  348-349 
Lewis,  Harvye,  294-303 
Limes,    buying    and    storage    tips, 

164 
Liquids,  measuring  221,  223 
Liver,  as  source  of  iron,  295;-cook- 

ing.  115 
Livestock,    and  crops,   sales  value 

per  farm,  11;  transporting,  use 

of  trucks,  23 
Living    standards,    rise,    effect    on 

food    supplies    in    developing 

countries,  84 
Lobsters,  market  sizes  and  forms, 

129-130;  types,  129 


McGeary,  Bernice,  K.,  196-204 

McMillan,  Thelma  J.,  254-259 

McNary-Haugen  bills,  67 

Macadamias,  202 

Mackey,  Andrea  C,  205-212 

Males,  peak  years  for  food  con- 
sumption,  268 

Manchester,  Alden  C,  42-44 

Maple  products,  home  storage,  234 

Margarine,  home  storage,  228;  in- 
creased use,  52,  228;  low  cal- 
orie, 228;  nutritive  value,  317; 
standards  of  identity,  228 

Marine  fisheries,  number  of  em- 
ployees, 15 

Marine  fishing,  commercial,  enti- 
ties, 15 

Market  basket,  cost  increase,  57; 
method  of  measuring  food 
price  trends,  57 

Marketing,  rising  costs,  effect  on 
food  prices,  57,  58;  industry, 
food,  profit  per  dollar  of  sales, 
59-60;  system,  cost  increases, 
59;  system  for  food,  58-59; 
system,  offsetting  rising  labor 
costs,  59 

Mayonnaise,  calories  per  table- 
spoon, 231;  homemade,  231; 
imitation,  calories  per  table- 
spoon, 231;  ingredients,  230; 
standards  of  identity,  230-231 

Meal,  home  storage,  217 


Meals,  away  from  home,  62-65; 
away  from  home,  factors  in- 
fluencing, 64;  away  from 
home,  number.  62;  away  from 
home,  regional  variations,  64; 
community,  339-347;  for  en- 
tertaining, tips,  326;  outdoors, 
330-338;  planning,  291-292; 
planning,  for  entertaining, 
325;  planning,  helpful  infor- 
mation, 281-283;  planning, 
money  saving  suggestions, 
287-289;  planning,  to  meet 
nutritional  needs,  287 
Measuring,   importance  in  baking, 

221,  222,  223 
Meat,  94-116;  buying,  for  the 
freezer,  106-110;  buying  tips, 
287-288;  cooking,  111-116; 
cooking,  outdoor,  338;  cuts, 
and  desirability,  95 ;  daily  con- 
sumption, 266;  for  freezing, 
buying  precautions,  108,  110; 
freezer  storage,  111;  freezing, 
preparation,  110-111;  frozen, 
consumer  preferences,  29; 
grades,  for  quality,  100-103; 
ground,  cooking  instructions, 
115;  home  care,  110-111; 
ideas  for  barbecuing,  334;  in- 
spection, 94;  marinating,  334; 
meatless,  40;  nutritional  value, 
316;  processing,  changes  in  op- 
erations, 28-29;  quality  fac- 
tors, 99-102;  red,  consump- 
tion trends,  92;  red,  cost  per 
serving,  293;  red,  types,  94; 
refrigerator  storage,  110; 
roasting,  directions,  345 ;  roast- 
ing, timetable,  112,  346;  sea- 
soning, 115-116;  servings  per 
pound,  general  guide,  281; 
serving  variations  for  outdoor 
meals,  330t-331;  tenderizers, 
115-116;  use,  increased,  266; 
variety,  106;  variety,  cooking 
instructions,  114-115;  variety, 
cost  per  serving,  287;  whole- 
someness,  assuring,  94;  yield 
grades,  103,  109,  110 
Meat  Inspection  Act,  4 
Medical  care,  increased  cost  in  last 

decade,  57 
Meister,  Harold  E.,  146-159 
Mellorine,  40 
Melons,  buying  and  storage  tips, 

164-165 
Men,  caloric  needs,  294 
Menopause,    special   weight   prob- 
lems posed  by,  313 
Menus,    at    different    cost    levels, 
284-285;  for  entertaining,  327, 
328,  329 
Meredith  growth  chart,   308 
Mesomorpns,  description,  306 
Metropolitan  Life  Insurance  Com- 
pany,   "Tables    of    Desirable 
Weight,"   307 
Mikesh,  ^erna  A.,  232-236 
Milk,  amount  used  per  household, 
237;  and  other  dairy  products, 
146-159;   and  dairy  products, 
glossary,    158-159;   and   dairy 
products,    recipes,    149,    150, 
157;  and  products,  changes  in 
consumption,   266;  and  prod- 
ucts, daily  consumption,  266; 
buying    tips,    147,    281;    clot- 
ting, 149;  consumption  trends, 
92;  cooking  suggestions,   149; 
curdling,    causes,    149;    filled, 
146;  fortification,  regulations, 
146;    from    cows,    for    infant 
feeding,     296;     grades,     146; 
home  storage,  147;  imitation, 
40,   146;  market  forms,  237- 
238;      nonfat      dry,      USDA 
grades,  146;  nutritional  value, 
316;    percent    of    food    dollar 


357 


spent  for,  237;  principal  pro- 
ducing areas,  9;  processed 
products,  146;  products,  un- 
refrigerated,  uses  in  camping, 
336;  reconstituting,  149;  role 
in  breadmaking,  220;  as 
source  of  protein,  281;  sub- 
stitutes, 146-147;  transporting 
by  truck,  23;  uses  of  different 
forms  in  cooking,  148-149 

Millets,  countries  using,  206 

Minerals,  as  structural  compon- 
ents of  body,  255;  problem  of 
excesses  in  body,  258 

Molasses,  234 

Mollusks,  edible  species,  128-129, 
130 

Moses,  Walter  R.,  237-243 

Mothers,  nursing,  dietary  needs, 
296 

Mountain  States,  average  farm  and 
ranch  size,  10;  major  farm 
products,  10 

Muffin  method,  of  cake  mixing, 
223,  229 

Murphey,  Charles  E.,  94-116 

Mushrooms,  buying  and  cooking 
tips,  187-188 


National  Advisory  Commission  on 
Food  and  Fiber,  68 

National  Commission  on  Food 
Marketing,  48,  49  ■' 

National  Research  Council,  71, 
216,  259,  261,  269,  319 

National  School  lunch  Act,  299; 
limitations,  73;  provisions, 
69 

National  school  lunch  program, 
69,  73,  261,  299;  amend- 
ments, 73 

National  Soft  Drink  Association, 
273 

Near  East,  amount  of  animal  pro- 
tein consumed  daily,  267 

Nectarines,  buying  and  storage 
•  tips,  165 

Nelson,  Leona  S.,  232-236 

Niacin,    deficiency    disease,    259 

Night  blindness,  259 

North  America,  amount  of  ani- 
mal protein  consumed  daily, 
267 

Northeast  and  Lake  States,  per- 
cent of  farm  products  pro- 
vided by,  9 

Nursery  school,  role  in  creating 
good  eating  habits,  262-263; 
role  of  snacks  in  meal  plan- 
ning, 274 

Nutrients,  deficiency  diseases,  258- 
259;  effect  on  body  regula- 
tory processes,  257;  group 
names  254;  intake,  need  for 
margin  of  safety,  259;  rela- 
tion of  intake  to  weight  loss, 
311;  roles  as  structural  com- 
ponents of  the  body,  255; 
stored,  problem  of  excesses, 
258;  stored  by  the  body,  257- 
258 

Nutrition,  education,  need  for, 
321;    human,    research,    324; 

§oor,  U.S.  programs  to  com- 
at,  69-74;  publications,  324 
Nuts,  196-204;  blanching,  201; 
buying  tips,  197-198;  grad- 
ing and  inspection,  197;  home 
storage,  198-199;  in-shell, 
preparation,  199,  201;  in- 
shell,  yields  of  meats,  196; 
market  forms,  196;  meats, 
freezing,  199;  nutritional 
value,  316;  percentage  fat, 
198;  recipes,  203-204;  roast- 
ing, 201;  serving  suggestions, 
202-203;  shelled!  buying  tips, 
198;   source  of  protein,    281; 


U.S.    grade    standards,     197; 
uses  in  cooking,  202 

Oats,  principal  growing  areas, 
206;  uses,  209,  215 

Obesity,  see  Overweight. 

Oceania,  amount  of  animal  pro- 
tein consumed  daily,  267 

Oils,  and  fats,  226-231;  buying 
tips,  283;  role  in  breadmak- 
ing, 221 

Okra,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
188 

Olives,  cured,  247 

Olson,  Kenneth  W„  75-80 

Onions,  green,  buying  tips,  189; 
mature,  buying  and  cooking 
tips,   188-189 

Orange  juice,  forms  with  stand- 
ards of  identity,  238;  market 
forms,  238 

Oranges,  buying  and  storage  tips, 
164 

Overeating,  some  causes,  305-306 

Overweight,  and  what  it  takes  to 
stay  trim,  304-314;  caused  by 
limited  physical  activity,  305; 
fallacies  regarding  exercise, 
305;  in  adolescents,  control- 
ling, 300-301;  prevention,  313; 
reasons  for  concern,  304;  some 
specific  problems,  311-313 

Oysters,  market  forms,  130;  prin- 
cipal species,  130 

Packages,   food,    purposes,    34-35; 

food,     special    problems,     34; 

food,  types,  35 
Packaging,    food,     33-35;    foods, 

new  developments,  40    4l 
Pakistan,  amount  of  labor  force  on 

farms,  13 
Palletization,    importance   in   food 

transporting,  21 
Pan   broiling,   meat,    112-113 
Pan-frying,  fruit,  171;  meat,   112- 

"3 

Pans,  preparing  for  baking,  221 

Parity  ratio,  67 

Parsley,  buying  tips,   188 

Parsnips,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
189-190 

Pasta,  buying  tips,  283;  flours, 
uses,  215 

Pastry,  and  breads,  213-225;  mak- 
ing, 224;  ratio  of  fat  to  flour, 
229 

Peaches,  buying  and  storage  tips, 
165 

Peanut  butter,  nutritive  value,  231; 
percent  fat,  231 

Pears,  buying  and  storage  tips, 
165 

Peas,  green,  buying  and  cooking 
tips,  190-191;  nutritional 
value,  316;  source  of  protein, 
281 

Pellagra,  259 

Peppers,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
191 

Pheil,  Judith  A.,  325-329 

Photosynthesis,  potential  uses  for 
expanding    food    supplies,    88 

Pickles,  244-248;  buying  tips,  247- 
248;  cucumber,  244-247; 
cured,  245;  dill,  245-246; 
fresh-pack,  245;  fruits  and 
vegetables,  247;  grades,  247; 
manufacture,  244-245;  rec- 
ipes, 248;  serving  suggestions, 
248;  sour,  246;  sweet,  246- 
247 

Pickling,     historical     background, 

Picnics,  menu  ideas,  332,  333; 
plan-ahead,  cooking  ideas  for, 
333;  recipes  for,  333 


Piecrusts,  freezing,  218;  making, 
229 

Pies,  freezing,  218 

"Piggyback"  service,  method  of 
transporting  food,  22 

Pineapples,  buying  and  storage 
tips,    165;   imported,    19 

Pine  nuts,  202 

Plums,  buying  and  storage  tips, 
165-166 

Poaching,  seafood,  138 

Pollution,  effects  of  agriculture, 
89 

Population,  U.S.,  increase  since 
1950,  10;  world,  relation  to 
future  food  supplies,   89-90 

Pork,  94;  buying,  103,  105-106; 
canned,  106;  carcass,  cuts 
from,  104;  carcass  grades, 
purpose,  103;  cooking  hints, 
112;  cooking  methods,  suit- 
able cuts,  112,  113,  114; 
cured,  types,  105-106;  decline 
in  use,  51;  imports,  amount 
annually,  19;  imports,  sources, 
19;  major  producing  areas, 
10;  processed,  cooking  require- 
ments, 105;  processing,  var- 
iations, 105-106;  selecting, 
factors  to  consider,  105; 
variety  meats,  cost  per  serv- 
ing, 287 

Post,  Charles  W.,  206 

Potato  chips,  increased  consump- 
tion, 273 

Potatoes,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
191-192;  buying  tips,  282; 
changes  in  usage,  53,  267; 
consumption  trends,  92;  daily 
Consumption,  266;  sweet,  see 
Sweetpotatoes. 

Poultry,  117-126;  age,  labeling 
for,  119;  average  servings, 
120;  braising,  122;  broiling, 
122;  buying  tips,  120,  281; 
canned,  storage,  120;  con- 
sumption trends,  92;  cooking 
instructions,  121-124;  cost 
per  serving,  293;  daily  con- 
sumption, 266:  freeze-dried, 
storage,  120;  freezer  storage, 
120;  frozen,  maximum  storage 
times,  120;  frozen,  thawing 
methods,  121;  frying  methods, 
123-124;  grading,  for  quality, 
118-119;  handling  precau- 
tions, 121;  home  care  and 
storage,  120;  increased  popu- 
larity, 51-52;  increased  use, 
266;  inspection  laws,  118; 
nutritive  value,  117,  316; 
preparation  for  cooking,  Ho- 
rn; processed  products,  meat 
requirements,  118;  produc- 
tion areas,  117;  recipes,  124- 
126;  refrigerator  storage,  120; 
roasting,  121-122,  123;  roast- 
ing guide,  table,  122;  rotis- 
serie  cooking,  122-123;  sim- 
mering or  stewing,  124; 
smoked,  storage,  120;  types, 
117 

Poultry  Products  Inspection  Act, 
4,  118 

Preadolescents,  dietary  needs,  298- 
299 

Pregnancy,  importance  of  good 
diet,  295-296;  special  weight 
problems  posed  by,  313 

Preserves,  grading,  236;  stand- 
ards of  identity,  235-236 

Price  supports,  for  farmers,  67 

Processing,  food,  24-35;  food, 
new  techniques  for  restau- 
rants, 64;  food,  special  tech- 
niques, 37-38 

Propionates,  use  in  breadmaking, 
217 


358 


Protein,  animal,  world  consump- 
tion, 267;  as  structural  com- 
ponents of  body,  255;  present 
in  wheat  flour,  213,  215; 
sources,  281;  use  as  fuel  for 
body,  255,  257 

Prunes,  buying  and  storage  tips, 
165-166 

Public  Health  Service,  milk  stand- 
ards, 146 

Public  Law  480,  76,  85 


Rabbit,   as  poultry  substitute,   124 

Radishes,  buying  tips,   192 

Rancidity,   delaying,   227 

Recommended  Dietary  Allowances, 
267,  269,  270,  294,  295 

Refrigerators,  best  temperature  for 
food  storage,  290 

Relishes,  247;  grades,  247;  serv- 
ing suggestions,  248 

Research,   agricultural,  results,   88 

Restaurants,  average  operating 
hours,  62;.  food  preparations, 
new  techniques,  64;  industry, 
projected  job  openings,  65 

Rice,  buying  tips,  283;  flour,  uses, 
215;  new  tropical  varieties, 
advantages  for  developing  na- 
tions, 81-82;  new  varieties, 
obstacles  to  expansion,  82; 
nutritive  values  of  different 
varieties,  209;  uses,  209;  va- 
rieties available,  215;  world 
use,  206 

Rickets,  259 

Roasting,  meats,  timetable,  112; 
poultry,  121-122,  123,  345, 
346;  nuts.  201 

Robusta,  coffee  varieties,  im- 
ported, 18 

Rockefeller  Foundation,   81 

Rope,  bacterial  infection  in  bread, 
217 

Ross,  Edward  W.,  Jr.,  160-173 

Rotisseries,  suggested  meats  for, 
334 

Rutabagas,  buying  and  cooking 
tips,  195 

Rye,  flour,  characteristics,  215; 
growing  areas,  206;  uses,  209, 
215 


Salad  dressing,  calories  per  table- 
spoon, 231;  ingredients,  230; 
standards    of    identity,    231 

"Salad  herbs,"  likely  uses,  251 

Salmon,  canned,  varieties,   128 

Salt,  measuring,  221;  role  in 
breadmaking,  221 

Sardine  fishery,  Pacific,  decline  in 
take,  15 

Sauces,  white,  uses,  149 

Sauerkraut,  247 

Sausages,  106 

Scallops,  market  forms,  130;  prin- 
cipal  species,  130 

School  breakfast  program,  73 

Schools,  role  in  creating  good  food 
habits,  263-264 

Scurvy,  259;  infantile,  296 

Seafood,  127-138;  baking,  134; 
boiling,  137;  broiling,  134- 
135;  buying  guide,  132;  buy- 
ing tips,  132:  canned  and 
cured,  availability,  127;  char- 
coal cooking,  135;  cooked, 
refrigerator  or  freezer  stor- 
age, 133;  cooking  tips,  133- 
134;  deep-fat  frying,  136; 
freezing,  133;  frozen  availa- 
bility, 127;  frying  methods, 
135-137;  grading  for  qual- 
ity, 131-132;  home  care  and 
storage,  132-133;  inspection, 
131;  number  of  species,  127; 
poaching,  138;  prepackaged, 
refrigerator  storage.  133;  raw, 


appearance,  134;  recipes,  134, 
135;  steaming,  138;  thawing, 
133 

Seasonings,  for  many  uses,  251; 
maintaining  quality,  249,  251 

Seeds,  flavor  substances,  249;  for 
seasoning,  defined,  249;  used 
in  baking,.  251 

Semrow,  Ellen  H.,  286-293 

Shallots,  buying  tips,  189 

Shellfish,  market  forms,  128-131 

Sherbet,  homemade,  preparation, 
151-152 

Ships,  (LASH)  for  transporting 
smaller  barges,  23;  use  in 
transporting  food,  23 

Shortenings,  defined,  226;  devel- 
opment, 226;  emulsified,  226- 
227;  home  storage,  227;  hy- 
drogenation,  226;  inspection, 
227;  products  containing  lard, 
227 

Shrimp,  culture,  gain  in  popular- 
ity, 17;  harvest  in  1967,  15; 
kinds,  130;  market  forms,  131; 
percent  imported,  17;  percent 
of  world  catch  used  by  U.S., 
17 

Simmering,    fruit,    169-170 

Sirups,  blended,  234-235;  corn, 
234;  maple,  grading,  234; 
maple,  recipe  using,  234; 
sorghum,  234 

Skewers,  for  outdoor  meat  cook- 
ing, 334-335 

Smith,  Malcolm  E.,   196-204 

Smoke  points,  for  fats,  229 

Snacks,  273-278;  amount  spent 
for  annually,  273;  buying 
tips,  288;  contributor  to  poor 
food  habits,  320;  nutritious, 
serving  suggestions,  264-265, 
276,  277,  278;  things  to  re- 
member, 278 

Society  of  Actuaries,  307 

Soda,  measuring,  221       ... 

Sodium  diacetate,  use  in  bread- 
making,  217 

Soft  drinks,  amount  consumed  in 
1966,  273;  amount  used  pet 
household,  237;  buying  tips, 
288 

Somatotypes,  basic,  306 

South,  food  consumption  pattern, 

271 

South  America,  diet-deficit  areas, 
83 

Southern  Delta  States,  chief  farm 
products,  9 

Sorghum  grain,  importance,  206 

Soviet  Union,  percent  labor  force 
on  farms,  13 

Soybeans,  major  producing  areas, 
9,  10;  value  as  export,  75; 
yield  increase  since   1950,   12 

Speed  method,  of  cake  mixing, 
223-224 

Special  milk  program,  69 

Spices,  amount  spent  for  imports, 
19;  and  herbs,  249-252;  de- 
fined, 249;  flavor  substances, 
249;  for  cooking  with  cauli- 
flower, 184;  hints  for  use,  251; 
keeping  time,  251;  measur- 
ing, 221;  "protein,"  likely 
uses,  251;  recipes,  251-252; 
sweet,  likely  used,  251 

Spinach,  see  Greens,  for  cooking; 
and  Greens,  salad. 

Spindler,  Evelyn  ,B.,  319-324 

Spiny  lobster,  percent  imported, 
17 

Squash,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
192-193 

Standards  of  identity,  227,  228, 
230-231,    235-236,    238,    239 

Steam,  use  as  leavening  agent,  220 


Steaming,  seafood,  138 

Stewing,  poultry,  124 

Straight  dough,  methods  of  bread- 
making,  223 

Stress,  personal,  relation  to  weight 
reduction,  310 

Sugar,  amount  imported  annually 
18;  and  sweets,  232-236;  and 
sweets,  recipes,  232,  234,  235, 
236;  brown,  home  storage, 
234;  brown,  measuring,  234; 
brown,  qualities,  233;  con- 
fectioners, 234;  cookery,  tem- 
peratures and  tests  for,  233; 
functions  in  cooking,  232, 
233;  granulated,  home  stor- 
age, 233;  imported,  cost,  18; 
imported,  sources,  18;  kinds, 
233-234;  measuring,  221;  nu- 
tritive value,  232,  317;  role 
in  breadmaking.  221;  total 
use,  stability,  53 

Sugar  beet  industry,  use  of  con- 
tract farming,    13 

Supermarkets,  consumer  demands 
on,  45;  increased  use,  reasons 
for,  47-48;  percent  of  gro- 
cery stores,  46;  pricing  poli- 
cies, 48;  number  or  items 
offered,  45-46;  showcases  for 
food,  45-50;  some  competi- 
tive excesses,  48;  see  also 
Food  stores. 

Supplementary  food  programs,  71, 
73 

Sweetbreads,    cooking,    115 

Sweeteners,  232-236;  artificial, 
236;  artificial,  recommended 
daily  intake,  239;  increased 
use,  53 

Sweetpotatoes,    buying    and    cook- 
ing tips,   193-194;  daily  con- 
sumption, 266 
Synthetics,   role  in  expanding  our 
food  supplies,  88 

Tables,  food  values,  purposes  of 
preparing,  318;  food  values, 
reasons  for  variations,  317, 
318;  nutritive  values  of  food, 
use,  315-318;  of  average 
weights,  307;  of  desirable 
weight,  307;  weight,  disad- 
vantage, 308 

Tangerines,  buying  and  storage 
tips,  164 

Taylor,  Eileen  F.,  62-65 

Tea,  amount  used  annually,  18; 
amount  used  in  Great  Britain 
and  Ireland,  240:  amount 
used  in  United  States  per 
year,  240;  classes,  240;  ear- 
liest use,  237;  preparing,  243; 
sources,  18 

Technological  revolution,  effect 
on  farming,  66 

Teenagers  role  of  snacks  in  eat- 
ing habits,  275-277;  special 
Extension  nutrition  programs 
for,  323-324 

Temperatures,  internal,  of  cooked 
meat,  111-112 

Tennant,  Margaret  T.,  237-243 

Thiamine,   deficiency  disease,   259 

Thompson,  Edward  R.,  174-195, 
244-248 

Tomatoes,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
194;  processed,    imported,    19 

Trade  barriers,  problem  in  for- 
eign markets,  77-78,  80 

Trade  centers,  foreign,  permanent 
locations,  78 

Trade  fairs,  use  in  attracting  for- 
eign markets  for  products,  78 

Trains,  adaptations  for  transport- 
ing food,  22 

Transportation,  increased  cost  in 
last  decade,  57;  intercity,  cost 


359 


per  food  dollar  20;  system, 
for  food,  development,  20- 
21;  system,  importance  to  food 
industry,  20-23 

Trawlers,  factory  ships,"  use  in 
fishing  industry,  13 

Trucks,  adaptations  for  hauling 
livestock^ "23;  use  in  food 
transporting,  22-23 

Tuna,  cannedT  128;  imported, 
percent,  17;  industry,  catch 
in  1967,  15,  17;  percent  of 
world  catch  used  by  U.S.,  17 

Turkeys,  butter-basted,  processing, 
32-33;  production  areas,  117; 
roasting,  directions  and  time- 
table, 345,  346;  see  also 
Poultry. 

Turnips,  buying  and  cooking  tips, 
194-195 

Ullrich,  Helen  Denning,  279-285 

U.S.,  dietary  needs  met  in  house- 
holds, 267;  distribution  of 
total  area,  8;  diversity  of  soil 
and  climate,  advantages,  75; 
farmers,  suppliers  of  food  for 
world,  75-80;  food  aid  policy 
toward  developing  nations, 
85;  food  situation,  outlook 
for  the  future,  87-92;  percent 
of  world's  fish  catch  used, ,17 

Unit  train,  use  in  transporting 
grain,  22 

Upchurch,  M.   L„  66-68 

Urbanization,  effect  on  food  sup- 
plies in  developing  countries, 
84-85 

Vanneman,  Samuel  C,  69—74 
Veal,  cooked,  characteristics,  111- 
112;  cooking  methods,  suit- 
able cuts,  112,  113-114;  de- 
scription, 94, 
Vegetable  oils,  increased  popular- 
ity, 52 


Vegetables,  174-195;  buying 
guide,  177;  buying  tips,  175- 
178,  282,  288;  changes  in  use, 
52,  267;  consumption  trends, 
92;  daily  consumption,  266; 
for  processing,  amount  pro- 
duced by  contract,  farming, 
13;  grading  and  inspection, 
174-175;  green,  as  source  of 
iron,  295;  nutritional  value, 
316;  processed,  labeling  in- 
formation, 176;  recipes,  180, 
181,  183,  185,  186,  188,  189, 
191,  193,  194;  recommended 
daily   intake,    282 

Vitamin  D,  importance  in  diets  of 
infants,  296 

Vitamins  as  structural  compo- 
nents of  body,  255;  deficiency 
diseases,  259 


Warehouses,  used  by  food  whole- 
salers, 42-43,  44 

Washbon,  Marjorie  B.,  304-314 

Water,  its  harvest  of  fish  of  all 
kinds,  15-17;  pollution  prob- 
lem, 89;  role  in  functioning 
of  body,  257 

Watercress,  see  Greens,  salad. 

Watt,  Bemice  K.,  315-318 

Weight,  control  groups,  special 
Extension  nutrition  programs 
for,  323;  loss,  maintaining, 
309;  reducing,  things  to  re- 
member, 314;  reduction  pro- 
grams, reasons  for  failures, 
309-310;  relation  to  body 
build,  306-308;  tables,  types, 
307.  308 

West,  Quentin  M.,  81-86 

West  Coast,  average  farm  size, 
10;  major  farm  products,    10 

West  Germany,  percent  labor 
force  on  farms,  13 

Wheat,  amount  shipped  under 
Public  Law  480,  85;  cost  per 


acre,  12;  evalution  tests,  27: 
flour,  blending  for  special 
uses,  215;  flour,  role  of  pro- 
teins in  baking,  213,  215; 
major  producing  area,  10; 
new  dwarf  varieties,  advan- 
tages for  developing  nations, 
81,  82;  new  varieties,  obsta- 
cles to  expansion,  82;  types, 
215;  uses,  209;  value  as  ex- 
port, 75;  yield  increase  since 
1950,  12 

Whey,  use  in  food  processing,  32 

Wholesalers,  food  specialists,  43; 
food,  special  services,  44; 
food,  warehouse,  42-43,  44; 
role  in   food   industry,   42—44 

Wholesome  Meat  Act  of  1967,  33 

Wholesome  Poultry  Products  Act 
of  1968,  33 

Wolgamot,   Irene  H..   339-347 

Women,  caloric  needs,  294;  peak 
years  for  food  consumption, 
268-269;  special  weight  prob- 
lems, 313 

Woodburn,  Margy,  339r347 

Woods,  for  cooking  fires,  best 
species,  338  , 

Workers,  professional,  special  Ex- 
tension nutrition  programs 
for,  324 

World  agricultural  revolutions, 
aims,  81 

World  food  problem,  research  re- 
ports, 83 

World  food  situation,  82-83 

World  Food  Survey,  267 


Xerophthalmia,  259 


Yams,  see  Sweetpotatoes. 
Yeast,  use  as  leavening  agent,  221 
Yield    grades,    what    they    deter- 
mine, 103 
Yogurt,  uses,  149 


360 


US.  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE:  1909     O— 326-541 


