Class  JDLllX- 

Book_liLi 

Copyright  }l? 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


'•i?'K\>i 


YouNGSTOWN  Cook  Book 

COMPILED  BY  THE  LADIES  OF  THE 
FIRST  PRESBYTERIAN  CHURCH 

YOUNGSTOWN.  OHIO 


'We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art; 
We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  without  heart ; 
We  may  live  without  friends ;  we  may  live  without  books ; 
But  civilized  men  can  not  live  without  cooks. 
He  may  live  without  books— what  is  knowledge  but  grieving  ? 
He  may  live  without  hope— what  is  hope  but  deceivmg? 
He  may  live  without  love— what  is  passion  but  pmmg  ? 
But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining  ?"—Luc//e. 


1905 
THE  VINDICATOR  PRINTING  COMPANY 

YOXJNGSTO^VN,   OHIO 


LIBRARY  of  CONGRESS 
Two  Cooies  Received 

JAN    8   1906 

CoDyriym  Entry 

CLASS     a,     XXc,  No. 

COPY     B. 


-f 


^^\^ 


^h 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1905,  by  the 

LADIES  OF  THE  FIRST  PRESBYTERIAN  CHURCH,  OF  YOUNGSTOWN,  OHIO 

In  the  office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington. 


PREFACE 


Cooking  is  an  art  which  is  capable,  more  than  any  other,  of 
ministering  to  the  comfort  and  enjoyment  of  hfe.  It  is  not  sur- 
prising, therefore,  that  from  the  earhest  times  great  attention  and 
study  have  been  bestowed  upon  its  cuhivation. 

The  cook  book  made  its  appearance  among  the  first  Hspings 
of  Hterature.  Archistratus,  who  was  the  guide  of  Epicurus  in  his 
pleasures,  and  enjoyed  the  reputation  of  inventing  made  dishes 
first,  attempted  to  pursue,  for  the  use  of  posterity,  the  rules  he 
successfully  followed  in  preparing  feasts  for  the  philosophers  or 
statesmen  who  ate  his  fish  done  in  oil  and  wine  and  fragrant  herbs. 
His  task  was  a  comparatively  easy  one  ,as  the  variety  of  food — 
meat  or  vegetable — that  found  its  way  to  the  table  of  the  Greeks 
of  his  time  was  by  no  means  great,  and  the  field  widened  with 
each  of  his  successors,  as  wealth,  refinement,  and  commerce  in- 
creased the  wants  of  men,  at  the  same  time  they  afforded  oppor- 
tunities for  supplying  them. 

In  our  own  language  there  were  cook  books  before  Chaucer 
sung,  or  Tyndal  translated  the  Bible,  and  with  each  generation 
they  have  increased  in  number  and  improved  in  quality. 

It  is  not  pretended  that  they  can  make  good  cooks  give  that 
skill  and  knack  which  are  in  part  almost  genius,  and  in  part  the 
result  of  early  training  and  careful  practice.  There  are  rules, 
however,  which  it  may  require  skill  to  follow,  but  which,  if  fol- 
lowed, will  prepare  for  the  table  dishes  which  will  gratify  the 
appetite  and  please  the  palate,  without  offending  the  stomach. 

It  has  been  the  aim  of  cook  books  to  gather  these  rules  as 
the  results  of  the  experience  of  those  who  were  at  the  time  most 
celebrated  for  the  mastery  of  their  art ;  and  the  ladies  of  the  First 
Presbyterian  Church  of  Youngstown  offer  to  the  public  this  their 
contribution  to  kitchen  literature.  All  the  receipts  are  known  to 
be  good,  as  they  are  used  by  the  most  experienced  housewives. 
No  pains  have  been  spared  to  make  this  book  meet  the  needs  of 
the  time,  and  it  is  confidently  believed  that  it  is  without  any  serious 
faults,  either  in  what  it  offers,  or  in  what  it  omits,  in  the  way  of 
rules  for  the  guidance  of  cooks.  It  has  been  a  work  involving 
great  expenditure  of  time  and  labor,  and  the  compilers  do  not  see 
wherein  there  is  anything  lacking,  or  they  could  have  done  better. 
They  now  offer  it  to  housekeepers  everywhere,  asking  for  it  a 
fair  trial,  and  unhesitatingly  promise  no  failures  where  the 
receipes  are  faithfully  followed. 


Measures  for  Housekeepers 


Wheat  flour — One  pound  is  one  quart. 

Indian  meal — One  pound  two  ounces  is  one  quart. 

Butter,  when  soft — One  pound  is  one  quart. 

Loaf  sugar,  broken — One  pound  is  one  quart. 

White  sugar,  powdered — One  pound  and  one  ounce  is  one  quart. 

Best  brown  sugar — One  pound  two  ounces  is  one  quart. 

Ten  eggs — Are  one  pound. 

Flour — Eight  quarts  are  one  peck. 

Liquids — Sixteen  large  tablespoonfuls  are  one-half  pint. 

Eight  large  tablespoonfuls — Are  one  gill. 

Four  large  tablespoonfuls — Half  a  gill. 

Two  gills — Are  half  a  pint. 

A  common-sized  tumbler — Holds  half  a  pint. 

A  common-sized  wine  glass — Half  a  gill. 

Seventy-five  drops — Are  equal  to  one  teaspoonful. 

Three  cupsfuls  of  sugar — One  pound. 

Five  cupfuls  of  flour — One  pound. 


The  Youngstown  Cook  Book 


SOUPS 

REMARKS. 

Good  Stock  is  the  basis  of  all  soups  and  gravies.  When  made 
in  large  quantities  a  stock  pot  is  necessary,  otherwise  an  enamelled 
kettle  of  fair  proportions  answers. 

Use  the  shin  of  beef,  the  knuckle  of  veal  and  breast  of  mutton 
or  lamb.  It  is  not  necessary  to  have  the  best  cuts  of  meat  or  fowl 
but  it  should  always  be  fresh.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and 
crack  the  bone,  use  cold  water  and  let  stand  for  awhile  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  before  starting  to  boil.  Allow  one  quart  of  water 
to  every  pound  of  beef ;  let  simmer  slowly  for  six  to  eight  hours. 
As  it  boils,  a  scum  will  rise  which  should  be  removed.  Strain  oflf 
the  stock  and  set  away  to  cool ;  when  cold,  remove  the  fat  which 
forms  a  cake  on  the  top  of  the  stock.  On  this  account  stock  should 
always  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  wanter.  In  cool  weather  it 
is  well  to  make  enough  to  last  several  days.  In  clear  or  cream 
soups  use  lamb,  vear  or  chicken  stock.  All  vegetables  for  soup 
should  be  boiled  soft  before  adding  to  the  soup.  In  using  onions 
to  saute  them,  first  in  a  little  butter,  colors  and  adds  to  the  flavor. 

Beef  Stock. — Six  pounds  hind  shin  of  beef,  six  quarts  of 
cold  water,  ten  pepper  corns,  ten  cloves,  one  carrot,  one  turnip, 
two  small  onions,  four  pieces  celery,  a  sprig  of  herbs  and  parsley, 
a  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  cook  as  for  consomme  letting  it  stand  at 
least  an  hour  before  putting  on  stove.  For  thick  soups  bones 
or  meat  left  from  steaks  or  roasts  may  be  used,  being  careful  to 
remove  all  burned  parts ;  put  about  one  pound  of  raw  meat  with  it. 

Stock  for  Soup. — Have  a  large  pot  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
— put  in  lean  beef  either  after  having  been  cooked  or  before — in 


6  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

the  proportion  of  one  pound  of  beef  to  one  quart  of  water ;  add 
pork  rinds  with  all  the  fat  taken  off — this  may  cook  slowly  for 
two  or  three  days — when  cold,  skim  off  all  the  fat  and  put  into 
another  vessel.  This  stock  may  be  used  for  all  soups  in  which 
meat  broth  is  required.  By  adding  for  thickening  either  barley, 
rice,  sage,  macaroni  or  vermicelli,  it  will  make  any  of  these  soups. 
— Mrs.  Wm.  Bonnell. 

Consomme. — Four  pounds  hind  shin  of  beef,  three  pounds 
knuckle  of  veal,  a  three  pound  chicken,  six  quarts  of  cold  water, 
one  carrot,  one  turnip,  two  onions,  six  stocks  celery,  twelve  pepper 
corns,  twelve  cloves,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of 
marjoram,  thyme,  one  tablespoonful  salt.  Let  this  stand  for  two 
hours,  then  put  on  back  of  the  stove  allowing  an  hour  to  have  it 
come  to  a  boil.  Then  let  it  simmer  gently  for  five  hours,  straining 
and  squeezing  out  the  juice  from  the  meat,  let  it  stand  until  cold, 
skim  oft'  all  the  fat,  put  a  piece  of  tissue  paper  on  it  to  absorb  the 
remaining  fat,  clear  the  soup  with  one  white  of  egg  and  shell  to 
every  quart  of  soup.  Let  it  boil  ten  minutes  stirring  constantly 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  pour  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  water, 
let  it  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  ten  minutes,  strain  it  through 
a  cloth  or  sieve.  If  you  wish  to  keep  the  stock,  pour  into  Mason 
jars.  The  natural  fat  on  the  top  protects  it.  By  a  stock  of  celery 
it  means  a  single  piece.  Always  allow  one  quart  of  water  to  one 
pound  of  meat  with  bone  and  little  fat  for  soup  stock. 

Beef  Soup. — Boil  a  soup  bone  about  four  hours.  Then  take 
out  meat  into  a  chopping  bowl,  put  the  bones  into  the  kettle,  slice 
very  thin  one  small  onion,  six  potatoes  and  three  turnips  into  the 
soup ;  boil  until  all  are  tender ;  have  at  least  one  gallon  of  soup  when 
done.  It  is  improved  by  adding  crackers  rolled  or  noodles  just 
before  taking  off.  Take  the  meat  that  has  been  cut  from  the 
bones,  chop  fine  while  warm,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  one 
teacup  of  soup  saved  out  before  putting  in  the  vegetables,  pack 
in  a  dish  and  slice  down  for  tea  or  lunch  when  cold. — Mrs.  C. 
D.  Arms. 

Tomato  Stock. — One  bushel  tomatoes,  three  dozen  green 
peppers  (seeds  removed),  one  peck  of  cooking  onions  cut  all  into 


SOUPS  7 

pieces.  Put  into  a  kettle — with  tomatoes  and  onions — enough 
water  to  keep  them  from  sticking  to  the  kettle ;  let  them  boil  until 
thoroughly  cooked,  then  strain ;  put  liquor  on  again  removing  all 
scum.  Can  in  Mason  jars,  air  tight.  Use  half  and  half  with  meat 
stock  for  soup. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Sampson. 

Corn  Soup. — Cover  a  small  soup  bone  with  two  quarts  of 
cold  water,  add  the  corn  cut  from  four  large  ears,  six  medium 
sized  tomatoes  cut  up,  a  half  pint  of  lima  beans ;  let  boil  slowly 
three  hours.  One-half  hour  before  dinner  pour  in  one  quart  of 
milk,  reserving  a  small  quantity  to  mix  with  a  tablespoon ful  of 
flour,  stir  in  to  make  the  soup  the  consistency  of  cream ;  add  a 
little  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt. — Mrs.  Mason  Evans. 

Corn  Soup. — Shank  of  veal,  one  onion,  one  dozen  ears  of 
fresh  corn,  one  quart  of  rich  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
Boil  the  veal  the  day  before  wanted ;  the  following  morning  skim 
off  all  the  fat  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  One  hour  before  serving  tie 
a  small  onion  in  a  muslin  bag  and  add  it  to  the  soup  leaving  it  in 
long  enough  to  flavor.  Cut  the  corn  from  the  ear,  putting  it  in 
soup  thirty  minutes  before  serving,  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  the  cream  and  flour ;  let  come  to  a  boil  stirring  constantly. — 
Mrs.  IV.  S.  Bonnell. 

Puree  of  Corn. — One-half  dozen  ears  of  corn  grated,  one 
and  one-half  pints  of  veal  or  chicken  stock,  one  onion,  one  pint 
cream,  a  little  flour  to  thicken,  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  corn 
in  one  cup  of  water  until  done ;  then  put  through  the  colander 
into  stock ;  cut  up  onions  and  cook  a  little  while  in  the  stock.  Put 
cream  into  sauce  pan,  let  come  to  a  boil,  season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  butter.  When  stock  is  boiling,  stir  in  a  little  thickening. 
Cook  thoroughly,  stirring  all  the  time ;  then  strain  through  a  fine 
sieve, — Miss  Kate  Arms. 

Tomato  Soup. — One  quart  of  tomatoes,  one  onion,  two 
ounces  of  flour,  four  ounces  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  two  of  salt,  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper, 
three  pints  of  water,  one-half  pint  of  milk.  Boil  tomatoes  and 
onions  in  water  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Have  salt,  pepper, 
sugar,  butter  and  flour  rubbed  smoothly  together  like  thin  cream ; 


O  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

boil  ten  minutes  boiling  milk  separately.  When  both  are  boiling, 
pour  the  milk  into  the  tomatoes  to  prevent  curdling;  serve  with 
squares  of  toasted  bread. — Mrs.  IV.  J.  Hitchcock. 

Puree  of  Tomatoes. — One  quart  of  tomatoes,  one  quart  of 
milk,  one  pint  of  water.  Boil  water  and  tomatoes  together 
twenty  minutes,  then  add  the  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda ; 
let  it  boil  up  after  adding  milk  and  soda.  Season  as  you  do  oyster 
soup  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  through  a  collander  into 
a  tureen. — Miss  Sally  Arms. 

Black  Bean  Soup. — Soak  one  and  one-half  pints  of  beans 
in  cold  water  over  night.  In  the  morning,  drain  off  the  water, 
wash  the  beans  in  fresh  water  and  put  into  a  soup  kettle  with  four 
quarts  of  good  beef  stock  from  which  all  the  fat  has  been  removed  ; 
set  it  where  it  will  boil  slowly  but  steadily  till  dinner  or  three 
hours  at  the  least.  Two  hours  before  dinner,  slice  in  an  onion 
and  a  carrot;  some  think  it  improved  by  adding  a  little  tomato. 
If  the  beans  are  not  liked  whole,  strain  through  a  colander  and 
send  to  the  table  hot. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Wick. 

Black  Bean  Soup. — Two  cups  of  black  beans  soaked  over 
night.  Boil  slowly  all  the  next  morning,  strain  at  noon  and  add 
one-half  can  of  tomatoes,  one  large  or  two  small  onions  and  four 
cloves ;  cook  this  until  four  o'clock,  then  add  two  strips  of  bacon, 
cook  until  six  o'clock,  strain,  thicken  if  necessary,  serve  with 
slices  of  lemon  in  each  dish. — Mrs.  IV.  S.  Bonncll. 

Oxtail  Soup. — Put  into  a  kettle — with  about  one  gallon  of 
cold  water  and  a  little  salt — two  oxtails.  Skim  off  the  froth  when 
the  meat  is  well  cooked,  take  out  the  bones  and  add  a  little  onion, 
carrot  and  tomato.  It  is  better  made  the  day  before  using  so  that 
the  fat  can  be  taken  from  the  top.  Add  vegetables  the  next  day 
and  boil  an  hour  and  a  half  longer. — Mrs.  Wm.  Bonnell. 

Chicken  Okra  Soup. — Take  two  quarts  of  good  veal  or 
chicken  stock,  to  this  add  one  coffee  cup  of  the  light  meat  of  cold 
chicken  cut  in  dice,  one  cup  of  okra  sliced  thin,  and  one  cup  of 
tomato  cut  fine.  Add  these  to  the  stock  and  cook  for  twenty 
minutes ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 


SOUPS  Q 

Noodle  Soup. — Take  a  large  shank  of  beef,  pour  over  it  more 
than  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  letting  it  boil  slowly  until  the 
meat  falls  to  pieces  or  from  five  to  six  hours,  removing  the  scum 
as  It  rises.  Set  it  away  to  cool.  The  following  day  remove  the 
fat  and  put  the  soup  on  the  fire  with  two  medium  sized  onions 
sliced  fine ;  pepper  and  salt  to  season ;  let  it  cook  thirty  minutes 
and  strain.  From  three  to  five  hours  before  serving,  beat  to- 
gether two  eggs  until  light  and  work  into  them  with  a  pinch  of 
salt— enough  flour  to  make  as  stiff  a  dough  as  can  be  rolled  out ; 
roll  very  thin  and  sprinkle  with  flour,  let  stand  on  the  moulding 
board  until  about  one-half  hour  before  serving,  when  roll  the 
dough  into  a  close  roll  and  slice  down  fine  with  a  sharp  knife. 
Shake  the  noodles  apart  well,  put  into  the  soup  and  boil  from 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes.— Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

French  Vegetable  Soup.— To  a  leg  of  lamb,  moderate  size, 
take  four  quarts  of  water,  of  carrots,  potatoes,  onions,  tomatoes, 
cabbage  and  turnips  take  a  teacup  each  chopped  fine;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Let  the  lamb  be  boiled  in  this  water,  let  it  cool, 
skim  off  all  the  fat  that  rises  to  the  top.  The  next  day  boil  again, 
adding  the  chopped  vegetables ;  let  it  boil  three  hours  the  second 
Q\2i\.—Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup.— Boil  a  calf's  head  with  a  sHce  of  ham 
until  it  falls  to  pieces,  strain  and  set  away  to  cool.  The  next  day 
skim  well,  take  a  soup  bunch  of  vegetables  well  boiled,  strain,  and 
mix  with  the  calf's  head  liquor  with  a  little  of  the  meat  from  the 
head.  Boil  an  hour  before  using.  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
brown  flour,  moisten  and  stir  into  the  soup  before  putting  in  the 
force  meat  and  egg  balls.  After  putting  in  the  force  meat  balls, 
let  it  boil  up  and  dish  right  away  having  in  the  tureen  a  gill  of 
sherry  wine,  two  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  thin  slices  and  two  lemons 
cut  in  thin  slices. 

To  Make  the  Force  Meat  Balls.— Two  ounces  of  veal,  one 
ounce  of  pork,  two  ounces  of  cracker  crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and 
either  parsley  or  summer  savory  to  taste;  one  yolk  of  tgg,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cream.  Mix  well  and  make  the  size  of  a  hickory 
nut. 


10  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

To  Make  Egg  Balls. — Two  hard  boiled  yolks  of  eggs ;  mix 
with  the  raw  yolk  of  one  egg  a  little  flour.  Roll  the  size  of  a 
hazel  nut. — Mrs.  IV.  J.  Hitchcock. 

Julienne  Soup. — Take  the  shank  of  a  fore  quarter  of  beef, 
more  than  cover  with  cold  water ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  slowly,  then 
skim.  Let  boil  slowly  for  five  or  six  hours,  strain  through  the 
collander  pressing  all  the  juice  from  the  meat,  then  strain  again 
through  a  sieve.  When  cold,  remove  all  the  fat  and  add  the 
liquor  from  one  onion,  one  medium  sized  carrot  and  half  a  small 
turnip.  Boil  in  enough  water  to  cover  for  twenty  minutes,  then 
take  one-half  carrot,  one-half  small  turnip ;  slice  in  thin  slices, 
then  in  fine  shreds  with  a  sharp  knife,  the  pulp  of  one  large  tomato 
cut  up  and  one  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley.  Add  this 
to  the  soup  and  simmer  slowly  for  about  twenty  minutes ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

Chicken  Gumbo. — Take  a  nice  fat  chicken  and  fry  it  brown, 
using  plenty  of  flour ;  have  your  okra  cut  fine ;  put  a  tablespoon 
of  lard  in  your  soup  pot — which  should  be  lined  with  porcelain 
or  the  soup  will  be  dark.  Put  in  the  cut  okra  with  about  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  it  constantly  for  five  or  ten  minutes, 
put  in  your  fried  chicken,  pour  on  enough  boiling  water  sufficient 
to  make  your  soup ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  after  boiling  hard 
for  about  fifteen  minutes,  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  let 
simmer  gently  for  one  hour.  Have  ready  some  plain  boiled  rice 
seasoned  only  with  salt ;  put  some  into  each  plate  before  serving 
the  gumbo. 

Chicken  Soup. — Make  a  stock  of  one  chicken,  cut  up  the 
chicken  and  break  the  bones ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  corns,  one  onion,  one  celery  stock ;  let  stand  one 
hour,  then  simmer  slowly  five  hours,  strain,  cool  and  skim  ofif  fat, 
strain  through  a  cloth  to  make  very  clean.  Veal  can  be  used  in 
same  manner  and  this  makes  a  good  white  stock  for  all  cream 
soups.  Heat  the  stock  boiling  hot,  whip  one  pint  of  cream  until 
stifif,  put  one-half  of  it  into  the  soup  tureen,  pour  half  of  the  soup 
boiling  hot  over  it  and  beat  it,  then  the  rest  of  the  soup  and  all  the 


SOUPS  1 1 

cream,  only  partly  stirring  it  to  have  it  foamy  and  creamy  on  top ; 
serve  at  once. 

Number  Nine  Soup. — Heat  one  quart  of  chicken  stock  with 
a  piece  of  cheese  the  size  of  an  egg,  grated,  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley.  Cook  ten  minutes,  add  one  cup  of  cream  into  which 
previously  has  been  stirred  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Gradually 
add  the  stock  to  this  cream  and  then  heat  all  together.  Pour  over 
water  crackers  and  serve. — Miss  Eliza  Wick. 

Onion  Au  Gratin  Soup. — Put  into  a  sauce  pan  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  when  very  hot  add  three  fair  sized 
onions  sliced  thin ;  stir  and  cook  until  a  light  brown,  then  pour 
over  these  two  quarts  of  good  beef  stock,  let  cook  about  five  min- 
utes, then  add  one  cup  of  grated  fresh  cheese.  Have  ready  in  a 
casserole,  three-inch  squares  of  toasted  bread,  allowing  a  square 
of  toast  for  each  person  to  serve ;  pour  the  soup  and  cheese  over 
this  and  set  into  the  oven  until  the  cheese  is  melted ;  serve  in 
casserole. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Almond  Soup. — Two  knuckles  of  veal,  four  quarts  of  water, 
four  ounces  of  almonds  before  chopping,  four  pepper  corns,  four 
cloves  and  small  onion ;  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  little 
parsley.  About  an  hour  before  taking  off,  put  in  the  seasoning, 
let  it  boil  down  to  about  two  pints  and  a  half;  let  cool,  remove 
the  fat  and  when  ready  for  use  heat  to  boiling.  Thicken  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  rubbed  smoojh  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  The  last  thing  before  serving  add  half  a  pint  of  hot  cream. 
Let  it  just  come  to  a  boil.  Chop  the  nuts,  sprinkle  in  the  tureen 
and  pour  in  soup  and  rub  very  fine. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonnell. 

Puree  of  Peas. — Boil  one  quart  of  shelled  peas  in  boiling 
salt  water  to  cover  until  tender,  mash  through  a  collander.  Heat 
one  quart  of  stock,  add  peas,  thicken  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour  rubbed  smooth  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  season; 
heat  one  cup  of  cream,  strain  together  through  a  puree  sieve  into 
tureen.    A  few  leaves  of  mint  boiled  in  stock  is  liked  by  some. 

Cream  of  Spinach. — Rub  a  pint  of  cooked  spinach  through 
a  sieve,  add  to  it  a  quart  of  stock,  cook  together  two  level  table- 


12  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

spoonfuls  of  butter  and  four  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  add 
carefully  to  the  hot  stock.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  strain 
through  a  sieve,  reheat,  add  a  cup  of  hot  cream  and  serve. — Mrs. 
M.  I.  Arms,  Jr. 

Cream  of  Celery. — Take  the  outside  pieces  from  a  whole 
bunch  of  celery,  break  them  into  boiling  salt-water  enough  to 
cover,  add  one  onion,  and  when  boiled  tender  pour  into  it  about 
a  quart  of  hot  white  stock.  After  cooking  about  ten  minutes  put 
through  the  colander ;  reheat,  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper ; 
heat  a  pint  of  thick  cream — saving  a  cup  of  it  to  whip — strain 
soup  and  cream  together  into  tureen  and  put  the  whipped  cream 
on  top. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms,  Jr. 

Cream  of  Asparagus. — Remove  the  tips  from  two  bunches 
of  asparagus,  cut  the  remainder  of  the  bunches  into  pieces  and 
put  on  to  boil  with  a  quart  of  white  stock ;  let  it  simmer  about  half 
an  hour,  fry  one  small  onion  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  re- 
move the  onion  and  stir  smooth  into  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
Add  a  cupful  of  the  soup  gradually,  then  add  the  mixture  to  the 
remainder  of  the  soup ;  season ;  strain  the  whole  through  a  puree 
sieve,  add  one  pint  of  heated  cream  and  the  asparagus  tips  (boiled 
until  tender  in  salt  boiling  water)  ;  serve  at  once  with  croutons. 
Canned  asparagus  can  be  used. 

Puree  of  Salmon. — Shred  as  fine  as  possible  one  can  of 
salmon  keeping  out  all  the  bones  and  skin ;  pour  off  every  drop 
of  oil ;  heat  one  quart  of  cream  with  one  teaspoonful  each  of  salt, 
white  pepper  and  maize.  Thicken  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  one  of  butter  rubbed  smooth  together,  add  the  salmon, 
cook  about  ten  minutes  and  strain  through  a  puree  sieve. — Mrs. 
Henry  Garlick. 

Puree  of  Oysters  or  Clams. — Two  quarts  of  shelled  oys- 
ters or  clams  boiled  in  their  own  liquor  until  tender ;  thicken  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  stirred  smooth  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  flour;  add  more  than  an  equal  quantity  of  heated 
cream,  season  with  salt,  paprika  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  onion 
juice.  Serve  in  bouillon  cups  with  whipped  cream  on  \.o\i.— Mrs. 
C.  F.  Hofer. 


SOUPS  13 

Clam  Chowder. — Two  dozen  clams  chopped  fine,  six  small 
potatoes  sliced  thin,  small  piece  of  onion,  one-quarter  pound  salt 
pork  chopped,  one  pint  water  and  pint  cream,  one  cup  rolled 
cracker,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Scrub 
the  shells  of  the  clams,  place  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  until  they  open ; 
strain  all  the  juice,  remove  the  clams  from  the  shells.  Put  the 
clam  juice — after  straining — and  water,  potatoes  and  pork  to 
cook ;  skim  often ;  let  them  cook  until  potatoes  and  pork  are 
tender ;  add  clams,  butter  and  seasoning,  let  boil  a  few  minutes. 
A  little  tomato  can  be  added  if  liked.  Before  serving,  add  hot 
cream  and  cracker  crumbs,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  serve. — Mrs. 
J.  M.  Bonnell. 

Bisque  of  Clam. — Twelve  large  clams,  one  small  onion,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  two  cupfuls 
of  milk  and  one  cup  of  cream ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Wash  the 
clams  thoroughly  with  a  brush  and  clean  water ;  put  them  into 
a  large  sauce-pan,  cover  with  one  cup  of  boiling  water  and  put 
the  cover  on  the  sauce-pan.  Let  them  cook  until  the  shells  open, 
take  the  clams  from  the  shells  and  chop  them  very  fine,  return  to 
the  liquor,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  press  through  a  coarse  sieve. 
Add  the  onions  to  the  milk  and  scald  it ;  rub  the  butter  and  flour 
together  until  smooth ;  add  a  little  of  the  scalded  milk  to  this  roux 
and  when  smooth  add  it  to  the  remaining  milk.  Take  out  the 
onion,  stir  the  milk  until  it  thickens  and  season  to  taste,  being 
very  careful  regarding  the  salt  as  the  clams  are  salt.  When  ready 
to  serve  add  the  clam  pulp  and  one  cupful  of  the  clam  liquor — 
which  has  been  put  through  the  sieve,  add  the  cream — ^beat  with 
a  Dover  egg  beater  to  make  the  soup  foam — and  serve  at  once. 
Care  must  be  taken  not  to  boil  the  soup  after  the  clams  are  added 
as  it  will  curdle. — Miss  Isahelle  McCurdy. 


FISH 


REMARKS. 

In  selecting  fish  care  should  be  taken  that  the  flesh  is  firm  to 
the  touch — that  no  impression  is  left  by  the  fingers — the  eyes 
bright,  the  gills  red  and  the  scales  not  easily  rubbed  ofif. 

If  the  flesh  is  flabby  and  the  eyes  sunken,  the  fish  are  stale. 

They  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned,  washed  and  sprinkled 
with  salt.  Most  kinds  of  salt  fish  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water 
for  twenty-four  hours,  the  flesh  side  turned  down  in  the  water. 
To  boil  fish,  soak  them  in  a  cloth  and  put  in  cold  water  with 
plenty  of  salt.  Most  fish  will  boil  in  thirty  minutes.  Before 
broiling  fish,  rub  the  gridiron  with  a  piece  of  fat  to  prevent  it 
sticking.    Lay  the  skin  side  down  first. 

Boiled  Fish. — Fill  the  fish  with  a  stuffing  of  boiled  pork  and 
bread  crumbs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  sew  in  a  cloth,  put  in 
cold  water  enough  to  cover,  salt  it,  and  if  liked  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar  ;  boil  slowly  for  thirty  minutes  and  serve  with 
drawn  butter  or  caper  sauce. 

Baked  Fish. — A  four  or  five  pound  trout,  one  quart  of  to- 
mato pulp,  one  quart  bread  crumbs,  a  little  less  than  a  pint  of 
onions  chopped  fine,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  black 
pepper,  Cayenne  and  salt  to  season,  Worchestershire  sauce  two 
tablespoonfuls,  anchovy  sauce  one  tablespoonful.  Mix  tomatoes, 
bread  crumbs,  onions,  butter,  the  sauces  and  seasoning  together, 
stufif  the  fish  and  sew  up.  The  remainder  of  the  stuffing  spread 
on  the  outside  of  the  fish.    Bake  two  hours. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Wick. 

Baked  White  Fish. — Prepare  a  stuffing  of  fine  bread 
crumbs,  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  season  with  sage,  parsley,  pepper 
and  salt.  Fill  the  fish  with  the  stuffing,  sew  it  up,  sprinkle  the 
outside  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter,  dredge  with  flour  and 
bake  one  hour ;  baste  often.    Serve  with  e^gg  or  parsley  sauce. 


FISH 


15 


Oven  Broiled  Fish.— After  fish  is  properly  cleaned,  take 
out  the  bone.  Begin  at  the  tail  and  work  towards  the  head,  with 
your  fingers  work  out  the  bone  keeping  fingers  near  the  bone  and 
pushing  the  flesh  away.  Put  the  skin  side  down  on  a  piece  of 
brown  paper  in  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  add 
a  little  butter.  Bake,  allowing  ten  minutes  to  the  pound.  When 
ready  to  serve,  divide  into  pieces  with  pan-cake  spoon.  Lift  from 
the  pan  leaving  the  skin  sticking  to  the  paper,  add  a  little  piece 
of  butter  to  each  piece  and  a  little  lemon  and  parsley.  White  fish 
is  best— Mrs.  G.  S.  Peck. 

Fish  Stuffed  with  Oysters. — One  tablespoonful  of  butter 
to  a  cup  of  cracker  crumbs.  Mix  butter  and  cracker  crumbs  to- 
gether and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Drain  the  liquor 
from  one  pint  of  o>sters  and  mix  with  the  crumbs.  Fill  a  two  and 
a  half  pound  fish  with  the  oysters  one  by  one.  If  there  are  any 
crumbs  left  over,  press  inside  of  the  fish,  sew  up  the  fish,  leave  on 
the  head  and  tail.  After  stuffing,  skewer  and  tie  with  a  cord  in 
the  shape  of  a  letter  S,  sprinkle  plentifully  with  salt,  pepper  and 
flour,  score  the  back  and  put  in  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  have  small 
pieces  of  pork  in  the  bottom  of  the  dripping-pan,  lay  on  the  fish 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake,  allowing  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  to  the 
pound. 

To  Broil  Salmon. — The  steaks  cut  from  the  center  of  the  fish 
are  best.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  spread  on  a  little  butter 
and  broil  over  a  clear  but  slow  fire;  pour  over  maitre  d'hotel 
sauce  and  serve  quite  hot. 

Broiled  Fish. — Clean,  wash  and  thoroughly  dry  the  fish, 
split  down  the  back,  rub  wire  broiler  with  butter,  place  on  the 
fish  and  broil  over  clear  fire — the  inside  exposed  to  the  fire  first, 
then  the  skin  side.  When  nicely  browned  and  thoroughly  cooked 
through,  place  on  a  hot  platter,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  piece 
of  butter,  garnish  with  quarter  lemons  and  parsley  or  serve  with 
maitre  d'hotel  sauce. 

To  Plank  Fish. — A  board  for  planked  fish  should  be  made 
of  hard  wood — oak  is  best — about  eighteen  inches  long,  twelve 
inches  wide  and  two  inches  thick,  and  slightly  hollowed  in  the 


l6  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

center  to  hold  the  fish.  Put  the  plank  in  the  oven  until  very  hot ; 
split  the  fish  down  the  center  of  the  back,  wash  and  clean  well, 
sprinkle  thoroughly  on  both  sides  with  salt  and  pepper  and  place 
on  the  board  skin  side  down.  Baste  often  with  melted  butter. 
Time  required  for  baking  about  one-half  hour.  Serve  on  the 
plank,  garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemon. 

Fillets  of  White  Fish. — Take  a  good  sized  white  fish  and 
after  cleaning  wipe  dry,  cut  into  pieces  two  inches  by  three  inches 
large,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  on  both  sides ;  beat  to- 
gether one  egg  and  one-half  cup  of  milk.  Dip  each  piece  into  this 
mixture,  then  into  very  finely  rolled  and  sifted  bread  crumbs. 
Place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  lard  until  a  rich 
brown ;  garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemon  and  serve  with  sauce 
tartare. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Brook  Trout. — Remove  the  intestines  and  fins — but  not  the 
head  of  the  fish — wash  and  wipe  dry.  Place  on  a  wire  broiler  and 
broil  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  often  and  taking  care  not  to  burn 
the  fish.  When  done  spread  on  a  little  partly  melted  butter ; 
squeeze  over  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  a  sprinkling  of  chopped 
parsley.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Serve  very  hot. 

To  Boil  Salt  Mackerel. — Soak  for  twenty-four  hours,  then 
pour  over  it  cold  water,  set  on  the  fire  and  as  it  commences  to  boil 
take  it  off ;  drain  and  serve  with  drawn  butter. — Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

To  Broil  Salt  Mackerel. — After  soaking  sufficiently,  hang 
up  over  night  to  drain ;  broil  slowly  the  skin  side  down ;  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  lay  pieces  of  butter  over  the  top.  Serve  hot. — 
Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonnell. 

Smelts  Fried. — Scrape  carefully  with  a  knife,  wash  in  salt- 
water, drain,  and  dry  each  one  separately  with  a  towel ;  beat  up  one 
egg  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  dip  each  smelt  into  this, 
then  into  cracker  meal  well  salted  and  peppered,  place  a  few  at  a 
time  in  a  wire  basket  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  lard  until  a  light  brown, 
drain  in  the  colander  or  on  heavy  brown  paper,  cover  hot  platter 
with  a  napkin,  arrange  smelts  on  this,  garnish  with  quarter  lemons 
and  parsley  and  serve  with  sauce  tartare. 


FISH 


17 

Broiled  Smelts.— Clean  carefully  and  with  a  sharp  pointed 

knife  split  open  and  remove  the  intestines,  wash  in  salt  and  water, 

drain  and  dry,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  spread  with  butter  and 

broil  quickly  over  a  clear  fire.     Add  more  butter  and  serve  quite 
hot. 

Flsh  Chowder. — Take  a  small  piece  of  pork,  cut  in  squares 
and  put  in  the  bottom  of  a  kettle.  Then  take  your  fish  (about 
three  pounds  will  make  a  good  sized  chowder)  cut  it  into  pieces 
(larger  squares  than  the  pork),  lay  enough  of  these  on  the  pork 
to  cover  well,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  next  a  layer  of  Boston 
crackers  split,  on  this  pepper  and  salt.  Above  this  put  a  layer  of 
pork  and  repeat  the  order  given  above  until  the  materials  are  all 
exhausted.  Let  the  top  layer  be  buttered  crackers  ;  pour  on  boiling 
water  until  covered  and  cover  the  kettle.  Keep  boiling  half  an 
hour ;  five  minutes  before  dinner,  dredge  well  with  flour  and  pour 
on  a  pint  of  milk.  This  will  make  the  genuine  Rye  beach  fish 
chowder.— il/;'.y.  C.  H.  Gilman. 

Cream  Salmon. — Boil  two  pounds  of  salmon  until  tender 
m  salt  and  water,  put  one-half  teacupful  of  cream  into  a  double 
boiler  and  thicken  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  one 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
onion,  a  little  celery  sauce,  cayenne  pepper,  white  pepper  and  a 
sprig  of  mace.  Take  three  eggs,  beat  them  lightly  and  mix  with 
the  picked  salmon,  butter  the  mould  well ;  place  this  mixture  in 
and  steam  one  hour.  Dressing  is  one  teacupful  of  milk,  a  little 
piece  of  onion,  little  mace,  season  to  taste,  thicken  with  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Pour  into  the 
center  of  the  mold. 

Creamed  Fish.— Boil  a  white  fish  weighing  four  pounds  in 
salted  water.  When  done  remove  the  skin  and  flake  it  leaving 
out  the  bones.  Boil  one  quart  of  thin  cream,  mix  butter  size  of  a 
w^alnut  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  it  smoothly  in 
the  cream,  adding  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  half  an  onion 
chopped  fine,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt;  stir  over  the  fire 
until  it  thickens.  Butter  ramekin  dishes  and  put  in  alternate 
layers  of  fish  and  dressing;  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top 
and  bake  until  brown. 


lo  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Cod  Fish  on  Toast.— Take  a  bowl  full  of  shredded  cod  fish, 
put  this  in  cold  water  in  a  skillet,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  turn 
into  a  colander  to  drain.  Turn  into  a  skillet  again  with  a  little 
cold  milk,  season  with  butter  and  pepper,  stir  smooth  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk  added  and  let  it  boil  for  a 
moment;  turn  this  onto  buttered  toast  on  a  platter. — Mrs.  R. 
McMillan. 

Cod  Fish  Balls. — Pick  fine  one  quart  bowl  of  cod  fish,  let  it 
simmer  on  the  back  of  the  stove  a  little  while ;  then  boil  six  good 
sized  potatoes,  mash  fine  and  mix,  while  hot,  with  the  fish 
thoroughly ;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter ;  add  three  eggs 
well  beaten  and  drop  in  hot  lard  ;  serve  in  a  napkin  ;  lay  the  napkin 
on  a  platter  and  the  balls  on  the  napkin  to  absorb  the  grease. — 
Mrs.  George  Haney. 

Fish  Balls. — Two  cups  of  fish,  four  large  potatoes,  two  eggs, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  a  little  pepper ;  tear  up  the  cod  fish  into 
small  pieces,  the  finer  the  better ;  put  raw  potatoes  in  a  kettle  with 
fish  on  top  ;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  the  potatoes  are 
tender.  Drain  ofif  the  water  and  mash  together  well ;  add  butter, 
pepper  and  perhaps  a  little  salt.  Beat  eggs  together  and  then  beat 
lightly  into  the  fish  and  potatoes  and  mix  up  lightly.  Have  ready 
hot  lard  and  drop  in  the  mixture  a  small  spoonful  at  a  time  until  a 
nice  brown.     Serve  with  napkin  under  them. — Mrs.  G.  S.  Peck. 

Fish  Cakes. — One  pint  of  salt  cod  fish  picked  fine,  two  pint 
bowls  of  whole  raw  potatoes.  Put  together  in  cold  water  and  boil 
until  the  potatoes  are  thoroughly  cooked.  Drain  oflf  all  the  water, 
mash  with  a  potato  masher,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  two  well  beaten  eggs  and  a  little  pepper.  Mix  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon.  Have  a  frying  pan  ready  with  boiling  lard  or 
drippings,  into  which  drop  the  mixture  by  spoonfuls  and  fry 
brown.  Do  not  freshen  the  fish  before  boiling. — Mrs.  Wm, 
Edwards, 


SHELL  FISH 


REMARKS. 


Oysters  are  in  season  from  September  to  May,  but  clams  are 
considered  good  the  year  around.  All  shell  fish  should  be 
strictly  fresh.  In  choosing  lobsters  take  the  tail  and  pull  it  away 
from  the  body.  If  it  is  elastic  and  springs  back,  the  lobster  is 
fresh.    Crabs  should  be  alive  when  cooked  to  insure  their  freshness. 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell — Scrub  the  shells  thoroughly 
and  open  by  pushing  a  short  knife  blade  around  the  edge  of  the 
shell  and  prying  it  open ;  remove  half  the  shell  and  carefully  loosen 
the  oyster  from  the  other  half ;  drain  off  the  liquor  and  remove  any 
pieces  of  shell  that  might  have  broken  in  the  opening;  fill  plates 
with  finely  chopped  ice  and  place  from  four  to  six  oysters  on  each 
plate,  according  to  size.  Serve  a  quarter  of  lemon  on  each  plate 
and  pass  horse-radish,  Oscar  or  mignonette  sauce,  also  thin  slices 
of  spread  brown  bread  and  butter. 

Oyster  Cocktail. — Drain  the  oysters  in  a  colander,  and  for 
eight  medium  sized  oysters,  take  two  teaspoonfuls  of  home-made 
catsup,  two  teaspoonsful  of  lemon  juice,  one  teaspootiful  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  horse- 
radish, three  drops  of  tobasco  sauce  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Mix  well  together,  thoroughly  chill  and  serve  in  cocktail 
glasses.    This  amount  will  only  serve  one  person.   . 

Stewed  Oysters — Take  one  quart  of  liquid  oysters,  put  the 
liquor  (a  teacupful  for  three)  in  a  stew  pan  and  add  half  as  much 
more  water,  salt,  a  good  bit  of  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  rolled 
cracker  for  each.  Put  on  the  stove  and  let  it  boil;  have  your 
oysters  ready  in  a  bowl ;  the  moment  the  liquor  boils,  pour  in  all 
your  oysters,  say  ten  for  each  person,  or  six  will  do.  Now  watch 
carefully  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  take  out  your  watch, 


20  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

count  just  thirty  seconds  and  take  your  oysters  from  the  stove. 
You  will  have  your  big  dish  ready  with  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk  for  each  person.  Pour  your  stew  on 
this  and  serve  immediately.  Never  boil  an  oyster  in  milk  if  you 
wish  it  to  be  good. — Dchnonico. 

Fried  Oysters — Take  large  oysters,  wash  and  drain,  dip  them 
into  flour,  put  into  hot  frying  pan  with  plenty  of  lard  and  butter, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Fried  in 
this  way  are  similar  to  broiled  oysters — Miss  Belle  Robbins. 

Fried  Oysters. — Drain  the  oysters  and  cover  well  with  finest 
of  cracker  crumbs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  let  them  stand 
one-half  hour,  then  dip  and  roll  again  in  the  meal ;  fry  brown  in 
a  good  quantity  of  lard  and  butter. — Mrs.  Mary  Bentley. 

Panned  Oysters — Arrange  in  a  dripping  pan  rounds  of  deli- 
cately toasted  bread,  pour  over  each  piece  just  enough  of  the 
oyster  liquor  to  moisten.  Onto  each  piece  of  toast  put  as  many 
oysters  as  it  will  conveniently  hold.  Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  small  piece  of  butter ;  roast  in  a  quick  oven  until  oysters  begin 
to  shrivel,  add  a  little  melted  butter  and  serve  quite  hot  in  the 
tins  they  are  roasted  in. 

To  Roast  Shelled  Oysters. — The  large  oysters  are  prefer- 
able for  roasting.  Use  those  that  are  fresh  and  unopened ;  scrub 
and  wash  with  a  brush  the  shells  well,  then  lay  in  baking  pan 
deep  side  of  shell  down  and  roast  in  a  quick  oven  or  on  the  top  of 
the  stove  until  the  shells  crack  open.  Remove  the  upper  half  of 
the  shell,  season  oysters  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  hot,  melted 
butter  and  serve  immediately  as  they  soon  become  cold. 

EscALLOPED  Oysters — Take  three  pints  of  fresh  oysters,  have 
a  pudding  dish  buttered,  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  crackers  rolled 
fine,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  the  oysters,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper 
over  them,  then  cracker  crumbs  and  small  pieces  of  butter,  con- 
tinuing to  do  this  until  all  the  oysters  are  used,  having  cracker 
crumbs  and  butter  on  the  top.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in 
a  brisk  oven. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 


SHELL  FISH  21 

EscALLOPED  Oysters — Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  in  baking 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  then  small  pieces  of  butter  and  sprinkle 
of  salt,  and  so  on  until  the  pan  is  full.  Beat  one  egg  light, 
add  enough  cream  to  make  one  cupful  and  pour  on  the  top  after 
the  dish  is  full ;  have  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top ;  use  plenty  of 
butter  and  all  the  liquor  of  the  oysters. — Miss  Caddie  Boris. 

To  Broil  Oysters — Select  good  sized  oysters  that  are  fresh, 
drain  in  colander,  dip  each  one  in  melted  butter,  place  in  a  fine 
wire  broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  more  melted  butter.  Serve  hot  on  slices  of  toast  slightly 
buttered  and  dip  for  a  second  only  in  hot  water. — Mrs.  Henry 
Wick. 

Oyster  Pot  Pie. — Have  ready  nice,  light  raised  biscuit 
dough  cut  into  small  squares,  season  the  oysters  well  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  thicken  them  with  a  little  flour.  Drop  in  the 
pieces  of  dough  and  boil  until  done.  These  may  be  baked  in  the 
oven  in  a  pudding  dish  allowing  the  dough  to  brown  on  top. — 
Mrs.  John  McCurdy. 

Oyster  Pie — Line  a  deep  dish  with  pastry,  fold  a  towel  in  the 
dish,  put  on  the  top  crust  and  bake ;  stew  the  oysters,  add  a  little 
thickening  and  a  well  beaten  egg.  When  the  pastry  is  done, 
remove  the  top  crust,  take  out  the  towel  and  pour  in  the  oysters ; 
put  the  cover  on  and  serve.  Both  pastry  and  oysters  should  be 
ready  at  the  same  time. — Mrs.  Mason  Evans. 

Oyster  Pie — Allow  one  can  of  oysters  for  two  pies,  roll  out 
yoar  pastry  and  put  in  your  pie  pan  or  dish,  then  put  in  oysters 
and  cut  up  a  piece  of  butter — the  size  of  an  egg  for  each  pie — into 
small  pieces ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Sprinkle  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  in  each  and  roll  out  a  top  crust.  Bake  from 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  one  hour.— il/;'.y.  H.  B.  Wick. 

Oysters  on  Toast — To  one  quart  of  oysters  washed  and 
drained,  add  ihret  pint^  of  milk,  put  in  a  kettle  on  the  stove  and 
stir  it  to  prevent  burning;  have  ready  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
stirred  smooth  in  cold  milk  or  cream ;  add  this  and  season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  butter  to  taste.  Cook  a  few  minutes  and  pour 
over  buttered  toast  on  a  platter. — Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 


22  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Oyster  Patties — Line  small  pattie  pans  with  puff  paste; 
into  each  pan  put  six  oysters,  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
sprinkle  over  a  little  flour  and  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  (allow- 
ing about  two  eggs  for  six  patties),  cover  with  an  upper  crust, 
notch  the  edges  and  bake.  Serve  either  in  the  pans  or  remove 
them  to  a  large  platter. — A4iss  Laura  Wick. 

Oyster  Patties — Make  patties  from  rich  puff  paste  by  cut- 
ting with  a  goblet  into  tarts;  bake  and  while  hot  fill  with  the 
oysters  prepared  in  the  following  manner :  Drain  a  pint  of  oysters 
in  the  colander,  add  to  the  liquor  sufficient  water  to  make  one 
quart  of  liquor ;  set  on  the  stove  until  it  boils,  then  add  the  oysters, 
let  them  boil  well,  then  add  pepper,  salt  and  a  lump  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  tgg.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire,  stir  in  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rolled  cracker,  then  fill  the  patties.  This  will  make 
twelve  patties. 

Oyster  Fritters — One  and  one-half  pints  of  sweet  milk,  one 
and  one-quarter  pounds  of  butter,  four  eggs  (the  yolks  must  be 
beaten  well  together,)  to  which  add  milk  and  flour,  then  stir  the 
whole  well  together,  then  beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  them 
gradually  into  the  batter ;  take  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture,  drop  an 
oyster  into  it  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  let  them  be  light  brown  on  both 
sides.    Clams  can  be  used  instead  of  the  oysters. 

Oyster  Croquettes — Take  the  hard  end  of  the  oysters,  leav- 
ing the  other  end  in  nice  shape  for  a  soup  or  stew ;  scald  them, 
then  chop  fine  and  add  an  equal  weight  of  potatoes  rubbed  through 
a  colander.  To  one  pound  of  this  add  two  ounces  of  butter,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  mace  and  one-half  gill  of  cream ;  make  in  small  rolls,  dip  in  Qgg 
and  grated  bread  and  fry  in  deep  lard. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Hitchcock. 

Sliced  Oysters. — Put  the  oysters — with  as  little  liquor  as 
possible — in  a  kettle  with  a  little  salt  and  let  them  scald ;  then 
scald  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  with  vinegar  and  spices  and 
pour  over  the  oysters  when  cold. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Butler. 

Creamed  Oysters  with  Celery. — Put  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  into  a  sauce  pan  and  as  soon  as  it  is  hot,  add  one  cup  of 
celery  cut  in  small  pieces ;  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add 


SHELL  FISH  23 

one-half  cup  of  oyster  liquor,  one-half  cup  of  cracker  crumbs, 
one-half  cup  of  cream,  and  salt  and  paprika  to  taste;  let  this  just 
come  to  a  boil,  then  pour  in  a  pint  of  oysters ;  leave  them  in  long 
enough  for  the  edges  to  curl,  then  serve  on  toast  or  crackers. 

Devilled  Clams. — Chop  fifty  clams  very  fine,  take  two  to- 
matoes, one  onion,  chop  equally  fine,  a  little  parsley,  thyme  and 
sweet  marjoram,  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  bread  crumbs,  adding 
the  juice  of  the  clams  until  the  mixture  is  the  consistency  of 
sausage ;  put  it  in  the  shells  with  a  lump  of  butter  on  each,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  one-half  hour. 

Steamed  Clams. — Scrub  clams  well  in  several  waters,  let 
them  stand  in  a  big  pan  of  water  with  a  handful  of  salt,  put  in 
an  iron  pot  with  a  cup  and  a  half  of  cold  water,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  a  little  pepper ;  cover,  let  boil  about  six  minutes  after  it 
begins  to  boil.  Place  clams  whose  shells  have  opened  onto  a 
hot  platter,  serve  with  seasoned  melted  butter  in  a  cup  with  a 
little  of  the  clam  broth. 

Boiled  Lobster. — Boil  small  live  lobster  in  boiling  water  for 
twenty  minutes;  when  cold,  open  and  serve  in  shells  with  either 
French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Broiled  Lobster. — Lobster  to  be  tender  should  be  taken 
while  alive,  washed  thoroughly,  then  with  a  sharp  knife  split 
down  the  middle  of  the  back  from  the  head  to  the  extreme  end  of 
the  tail ;  remove  the  sand-bag,  break  the  large  claws,  fill  the  meat 
from  them  into  the  body  of  the  lobster,  spread  with  butter,  place 
on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  over  a  quick  fire,  the  meat  side  near 
to  the  fire.  When  nicely  browned,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve  immediately  with  hot,  melted  butter. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Devilled  Lobster. — Five  pounds  of  lobster  boiled,  one  pint 
of  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard,  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  the  cream  in  the 
double  boiler,  when  boiling  add  flour  and  butter  rubbed  to  a 
cream,  salt,  pepper  and  mustard;  cook  two  minutes,  add  lobster 
cut  in  pieces  rather  small,  cook  one  minute.  Fill  the  shells,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  put  in  a  dripping  pan  and 
brown  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  cheese  melts — about  twenty 
minutes. — Mrs.  P.  B.  Oiven. 


24  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Lobster  Cutlet. — Mince  the  flesh  of  lobster  fine,  season 
with  saU,  pepper  and  spices ;  melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  the  sauce 
pan,  mix  with  it  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  the  lobster, 
finely  chopped  parsley,  mix  with  some  good  stock,  remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  spread  out  the 
mixture  and  when  cold  cut  into  cutlets.  Dip  carefully  into 
beaten  egg,  then  into  fine  baked  bread  crumbs,  let  them  stand  an 
hour,  repeat  and  fry  a  rich  brown ;  serve  with  fried  parsley. 

Lobster  Chowder. — Three  pounds  of  lobster  chopped  not 
very  fine,  three  crackers  pounded  very  fine;  mix  crackers  and 
lobster  together  and  add  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg,  a  little 
salt  and  red  pepper,  work  all  well  together;  boil  one  quart  of 
milk  and  pour  this  gradually  over  the  paste,  stirring  all  the  time, 
then  put  in  the  chopped  lobster,  boil  up  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs. 
H.  W.  Ford. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg. — One  pint  of  lobster,  one-quarter 
pound  butter,  one  cup  cream,  three  yolks  of  eggs,  one-quarter  cup 
sherry,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Melt  butter  and  lobster  and  salt 
and  pepper ;  when  lobster  is  heated,  add  the  cream ;  when  the 
cream  is  smoking  hot,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  as 
rapidly:  as  possible ;  when  sauce  thickens,  add  the  wine. — Miss 
Isabelle  McCurdy. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg. — Take  the  meat  of  a  three-pound 
lobster  (previously  boiled),  cut  into  blocks,  rub  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  smooth  with  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  add 
one  gill  of  cream  and  the  yolks  of  four  hard  boiled  eggs  rubbed 
smooth ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  When  taken 
from  the  fire,  add  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  sherry  wine. — Mrs.  Rarer. 

Stuffed  Lobster. — Boil  a  lobter  from  twenty  minutes  to 
one-half  hour  according  to  size;  when  cold,  take  the  meat  from 
the  shell  and  cut  up  fine ;  leave  the  front  of  the  shell  in  one  piece 
being  careful  not  to  break  ofif  the  whiskers,  saving  the  legs  to 
garnish  the  back;  cook  together  in  a  skillet  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  and  two  of  flour,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped 
onion  and  two  of  chopped  parsley,  then  add  the  lobster  meat,  take 
one  quart  of  cream  beaten  together  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
add  this  to  the  mixture  and  if  not  sufiiciently  moist,  enough  more 


SHELL  FISH  2< 

cream  to  make  very,  very  soft,  grate  over  a  dash  of  nutmeg, 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  season  with  salt  and  paprika,  let  stand 
until  very  cold,  then  fill  the  shells  and  cover  with  seasoned  butter 
crumbs  and  flakes  of  butter  on  top,  brown  in  the  oven  and  serve. 
This  recipe  is  for  about  ten  very  small  lobsters.— Mr^  C  F 
Hofcr. 

Lobster  Rissoles.— Boil  the  lobster,  take  out  the  meat, 
mince  it  fine,  pound  the  coral  smooth  and  grate,  for  one  lobster, 
the  yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  season  widi  cayenne  pepper 
and  a  little  salt;  make  a  batter  of  milk,  flour  and  well  beaten 
eggs — two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  one  of  flour  to  each  egg. 
Beat  the  batter  well,  mix  the  lobster  with  it  gradually  until  stiff 
enough  to  roll  into  balls  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  fry  in  fresh  butter 
or  best  salad  oil  and  serve. 

LoGSTER  Croquettes.— Chop  the  meat  from  two  boiled  lob- 
sters fine,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  small  teaspoonful 
of  flour  and  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion  fried  a  light 
brown ;  pour  in  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  cream,  part  at  a  time 
so  It  will  not  be  too  moist,  put  in  about  three  teacups  of  lobster 
meat,  let  it  boil  up,  season  wath  salt  and  paprika,  make  as  soft 
as  possible;  let  it  get  cold,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  form  in  pyramid  shaped  croquettes  and  cook  in  deep  lard ; 
garnish  with  small  lobster  claws.— Mr^.  M.  I.  Arms,  Jr. 

Soft  Shell  Crabs.— Lift  the  shell  and  extract  the  spongy 
substance  on  the  back  and  pull  off  the  loose  shell  on  the  other 
side  which  is  called  the  "apron;"  if  sandy,  wipe  with  a  damp 
cloth  but  do  not  let  them  lie  in  water;  dip  them  in  beaten  egg 
and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  about  ten  minutes  in  hot  lard,  drain 
and  serve  hot  with  sauce  tartare.     Some  prefer  them  fried  plain. 

Crab  a  la  Newbhrg. — A/[elt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  one  cup  of  cream  stirred 
thick  and  smooth,  add  two  cups  of  crab  meat  flaked,  let  it  heat 
over  boiling  water  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  add  salt,  paprika  and 
lemon  juice  to  taste.  Just  before  serving,  stir  in  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  beaten  with  one-quarter  cup  of  cream  and  let  it  cook 
until  the  eggs  are  thoroughly  blended. 

Scallops  a  la  Poulette. — One  pint  of  scallops,  one  cup  of 
milk,  two  egg  yolks,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cup  of 


26  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  lemon 
juice,  one-quarter  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  pepper,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Cover  the  scallops  with  cold  salt 
water  and  let  stand  one  hour ;  drain  and  cover  with  boiling  acidul- 
ated water  and  let  stand  five  minutes  ;  let  drain  and  dry,  melt  butter 
without  burning,  add  the  flour  stirred  until  smooth  and  well 
cooked,  add  milk  stirred  until  smooth,  add  the  cream  and  the 
scallops,  cook  until  the  sauce  thickens,  add  lemon  juice,  salt, 
pepper  and  parsley.     Serve  at  once  on  toast. 


MEATS 


REMARKS. 

In  selecting  beef  choose  that  of  a  fine,  smooth  grain,  of  a  bright 
red  color  and  white  fat. 

The  flesh  of  good  veal  is  firm  and  dry  and  the  joints  stiff. 

The  flesh  of  good  mutton  or  lamb  is  a  bright  red  with  the 
fat  firm  and  white. 

If  the  meat  of  pork  is  young,  the  lean  will  break  on  being 
pinched;  the  fat  will  be  white,  soft  and  pulpy. 

Roast  Beef. — The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  sirloin 
and  standing  rib.  Pour  a  very  little  water  into  the  dripping  pan 
with  which  baste  the  meat  frequently  while  roasting;  also  turn 
it  that  all  sides  may  cook  alike;  roast  in  a  quick  oven  allowing 
fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound;  when  done,  take  up  the  meat, 
pour  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour 
mixed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water,  let  it  boil  and  send  to  the 
table  in  a  gravy  dish.  Do  not  salt  the  roast  until  a  short  time 
before  removing  from  the  oven  as  salt  extracts  the  juice.  Some 
prefer  the  beef  basted  only  with  the  beef  drippings. 

Yorkshire  Pudding  to  Serve  with  Roast  Beef. — Three 
eggs  well  beaten,  to  which  add  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a 
small  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  beat  up  with  milk  until  about  the 
consistency  of  thick  cream.  This  batter  pour  into  the  pan  in 
which  the  beef  has  been  roasted  having  enough  grease  (which 
must  be  hot)  to  bake  it.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.— Mr.?.  Wm. 
Bonnell. 

Boiled  or  Stewed  Beef. — Take  a  piece  of  beef  from  the 
shoulder  weighing  five  or  six  pounds  and  cut  into  pieces  as  large 
as  your  fist;  put  into  a  kettle  and  a  little  more  than  cover  with 
cold  water ;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  set  it  back  on  the  stove  and 
let  simmer  gently  for  about  three  hours  keeping  it  covered, 
when  the  meat  is  tender,  thicken  the  gravy  with  butter  rubbed 


28  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

smooth  with  a  Httle  flour  until  the  consistency  of  thick  cream ; 
place  meat  on  a  platter  and  pour  gravy  over. 

Beef  Steak  Broiled. — Choose  sirloin  or  tenderloin  steaks 
from  one  to  two  inches  thick,  lay  on  a  gridiron  and  broil  over  a 
clear  fire ;  when  done  put  on  a  warm  platter  with  plenty  of  butter, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beef  steak  should  be  eaten  as  soon 
is  cooked  to  be  in  perfection.  Thin  slices  of  salt  pork  or  break- 
fast bacon  broiled  and  served  with  the  steak  is  an  improvement. 
— Mrs.  G.  B.  Woodman. 

Beef  Steak  Fried. — Steaks  for  frying  should  be  cut  thinner 
than  for  broiling ;  put  part  lard  and  part  butter  into  a  skillet,  let 
it  get  very  hot,  put  in  the  steak,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
let  fry  until  nicely  browned ;  lay  on  a  hot  platter  and  make  a 
gravy  to  pour  over  the  meat  by  pouring  into  the  frying  pan  a 
little  hot  water ;  slice  raw  onions  thin,  lay  on  the  steak  and  pour 
the  hot  gravy  over  them  and  serve  immediately. — Adrs.  W.  S. 
Bonnell. 

Beef  Steak  with  Oysters. — Broil  a  sirloin  or  tenderloin 
steak,  season,  take  one  quart  of  oysters,  drain  off  all  the  liquor, 
put  them  int  a  stew  pan  with  half  of  a  small  cup  full  of  butter, 
or  less  butter  and  a  little  sweet  cream,  salt  and  pepper  enough  to 
season ;  let  them  boil  and  turn  them  over  the  steak  on  the  platter. 
Oysters  broiled  and  laid  on  the  steak  are  very  nice. — Mrs.  M. 
I.  Arms. 

A  New  England  Boiled  Dinner. — Select  a  thick  piece  of 
corn  beef  from  the  round  of  shoulder  weighing  from  six  to  eight 
pounds.  Wash  in  cold  water  and  put  over  the  fire  in  a  large  pot 
with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  it  three  or  four  inches.  Set 
the  pot  where  its  contents  will  slowly  reach  the  boiling  point  and 
boil  very  gently  for  four  hours  from  the  time  it  is  first  placed  on 
the  fire.  After  the  meat  is  put  on  to  cook,  peel  a  dozen  medium 
sized  potatoes,  four  turnips,  scrape  four  carrots  and  four  pars- 
nips ;  trim  and  wash  a  firm  head  of  cabbage,  cut  its  stalk  out 
without  breaking  and  bind  with  a  tape  to  keep  whole  while  cooking. 
As  fast  as  the  vegetables  are  prepared,  lay  them  in  cold  water 
until  needed  for  cooking.  If  onions  are  used,  they  should  be 
boiled  in  a  separate  sauce  pan.  When  the  meat  begins  to  boil, 
the  scum  which  rises  to  the  top  should  be  carefully  skimmed  oflf 


MEATS  29 

and  a  medium  sized  red  or  green  pepper  put  into  the  pot.  The 
pot  should  be  large  enough  to  hold  both  meat  and  vegetables. 
The  vegetables  are  to  be  added  to  the  meat  in  proper  succession 
allowing  time  for  each  kind  to  cook ;  carrots,  parsnips  and 
turnips  about  two  hours ;  cabbage  and  onions  one  hour ;  potatoes 
one-half  hour.  When  the  boiled  dinner  is  cooked,  the  meat  is 
placed  in  the  middle  of  a  large  platter  and  the  vegetables  ar- 
ranged around.  A  piece  of  salt  pork  is  sometimes  boiled  with 
the  beef. 

Rolled  Beef. — Remove  the  bone  and  fat  from  a  sirloin 
steak  cut  about  one  inch  thick,  lay  out  flat  and  spread  with  a 
rich  bread  stuffing  with  a  few  scraps  of  any  kind  of  cold  meat 
and  a  very  little  salt  pork  chopped  fine ;  roll  carefully  to  pre- 
vent dressing  from  pushing  out  at  the  sides,  tie  firmly  with  a 
cord,  dredge  well  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper ;  have  a  little  hot 
fat  in  the  skillet,  put  the  roll  into  this  turning  until  all  sides  are 
brown ;  then  remove  to  a  baking  pan,  slice  one  onion,  one  small 
carrot  very  thin,  two  tomatoes  cut  up  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley ;  lay  on  top  of  the  beef,  add  a  little  stock  to  the 
pan  and  roast  slowly  about  two  hours,  basting  often.  When 
done,  if  gravy  is  not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  flour ;  remove  the 
string  before  serving. 

Planked  Steak. — Broil  a  sirloin  steak  two  and  one-half 
inches  thick.  Have  ready,  cooked  and  hot,  one  dozen  potatoes 
mashed,  one  can  of  peas,  one  dozen  small  onions  and  three  car- 
rots. Place  this  steak  on  a  hot  plank  and  pipe  the  potatoes  around 
it  through  a  pastry  tube,  then  put  the  other  vegetables  inside  the 
ring  of  potato.  Brush  over  the  potatoes  and  onions  with  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs  diluted  in  milk  and  set  the  whole  into  the  oven 
long  enough  to  reheat  the  potatoe  and  brown  the  edges  delicately. 
Remove  the  plank  from  the  oven,  cover  the  edges  with  a  napkin 
and  serve  on  a  platter  at  once. — Mrs.  R.  McCurdy. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. — Take  a  round  of  beef,  remove  the  bone 
from  the  middle,  also  all  the  gristle  and  tough  parts  about  the 
edges ;  have  ready  one-half  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  cut  into 
strips  as  thick  and  long  as  your  finger,  prepare  a  nice  dressing 
the  same  as  for  stufling  a  turkey.  With  a  thin,  sharp  knife  make 
perpendicular  incisions  in  the  meat  about  one-half  an  inch  apart, 
thrust  into  them  the  pork  and  work  in  with  them  some  of  the 


30  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

dressing ;  proceed  thus  until  the  meat  is  thoroughly  plugged.  Put 
it  into  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water  at  the  bottom,  cover  tightly 
and  bake  slowly  four  hours.  Then  uncover  and  spread  the  rest 
of  the  dressing  over  the  top  and  bake  until  a  nice  brown.  After 
taking  up,  thicken  the  gravy  and  pour  over  the  beef ;  it  should 
be  sliced  horizontally ;  it  is  good  either  hot  or  cold. — Mrs.  John 
McCurdy. 

A  LA  MODE  Beef. — Three  pounds  of  beef,  raw,  chopped  fine, 
two  slices  of  bread  chopped  fine,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  bake  two  and  a  half 
hours,  slice  and  eat  cold. — Mrs.  T.  H.  JVilsoii. 

Beef  Omelet. — Three  pounds  of  beef,  three-quarters  pound 
suet  chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sage,  three  eggs,  six 
Boston  crackers  rolled ;  make  into  a  roll  and  bake. — Mrs.  W.  S. 
Mattheivs. 

Beef  Omelet. — Three  pounds  beef  chopped  fine,  three  eggs, 
one  pint  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful 
pepper,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  sage  to  taste.  Mix  together  and 
mold  into  a  loaf,  place  in  a  pan  with  hot  water  enough  to  keep 
from  burning  and  stufif  bits  of  butter  around  it ;  cover  until  nearly 
done,  then  let  it  brown.  Bake  about  two  hours. — Mrs.  E.  L. 
Kanengeiser. 

Beef  Brawn. — Take  a  nice  boiling  piece  of  beef,  boil  until 
quite  tender ;  when  cool,  remove  the  bone,  chop  fine,  strain  the 
liquor  in  which  the  beef  has  been  boiled,  let  it  stand  until  cool, 
skim  off  the  fat  and  add  to  the  liquor  the  chopped  beef ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  butter  and  sage  or  sweet  marjoram 
if  liked.  Let  it  simmer  until  almost  dry,  press  into  a  dish,  when 
entirely  cold  slice. — Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

Si'iCED  Beef. — Take  a  piece  of  round  and  cut  out  the  bone; 
tie  a  string  around  it  to  keep  it  firm ;  take  four  ounces  of  salt- 
petre finely  powdered  and  rub  into  the  meat ;  put  into  a  crock, 
cover  and  let  stand  two  days.  Next  rub  thoroughly  with  salt, 
return  to  the  crock  and  let  it  stand  eight  days ;  then  take  an 
ounce  of  powdered  mace,  a  grated  nutmeg,  one  ounce  pepper, 
one-half  ounce  of  cloves  light  weight.  Miz  these  spices  well  to- 
gether with  one  pound  of  brown  sugar ;  rub  this  thoroughly 
through  the  beef,  which  will  be  ready  to  cook  the  next    day. 


MEATS  31 

Then  fill  the  opening  with  herbs,  take  one-half  pound  of  beef  suet, 
flatten  it  by  pounding  with  the  rolling  pin,  lay  it  in  a  broad  earthen 
pan  with  the  suet  under  and  over  the  meat.  Over  this  put  a  shee^ 
of  white  paper  and  cover  with  a  plate,  set  it  in  a  hot  oven  and 
cook  five  hours  or  until  it  is  thoroughly  cooked.  It  is  excellent 
cold. — Mrs.  IV.  J.  Hitchcock. 

MiGNONS  OF  Beef. — Cut  a  pound  of  well  trimmed  tender- 
loin into  five  slices,  remove  the  skin  and  press  into  round  shapes ; 
brush  with  oil  or  melted  butter  and  broil  about  six  minutes  on 
both  sides ;  season,  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  chopped  cress.  Place 
on  a  platter  around  a  pile  of  small  potato  balls  cooked  a  la  maitre 
d'hotel. — Mrs.  IV.  J.  Sampson. 

Devilled  Beef. — Take  slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  lay  them 
on  hot  coals  and  broil ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  serve  while 
hot  with  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  each  piece. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick. 

Hamburg  Steak. — Put  through  a  meat  grinder  small  pieces 
of  beef,  either  from  the  round  or  shoulder ;  when  ground,  to  one 
pound  of  meat  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper ;  form  into  small  cakes  with  the  hand  and  either 
broil  on  both  sides  over  a  clear  fire  or  saute  in  half  lard  and 
butter.  Have  some  nicely  browned  sauted  onions,  place  a  spoonful 
on  each  meat  cake  and  serve  very  hot. 

To  Cook  a  Fillet  of  Beef. — Procure  a  nice  fillet  of  beef, 
sear  the  outside  in  a  hot  pan  to  retain  the  juices.  Thin  slices  of 
salt  pork  may  be  laid  over  the  beef  and  baste  with  a  cup  of  beef 
stock  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Half  an  hour  is  sufficient  time  if 
oven  is  hot  as  should  be.  Serve  with  mushroom  sauce. — Mrs.  J . 
H.  McEwen. 

Mushroom  Sauce. — Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
sauce  pan.  Stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  cook.  Add  half 
a  cup  of  beef  stock  and  a  part  of  the  juice  from  a  can  of  mush- 
rooms. Add  pepper  and  salt  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Put 
in  mushrooms  and  simmer  a  few  minutes. — Mrs.  J.  H.  McEzven. 

Ground  Beef  for  Breakfast. — Procure  a  good  round  steak 
and  cut  in  pieces  and  put  through  a  meat  grinder ;  put  this  into  a 
skillet  over  a  hot  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  all  particles  are 
just  cooked  enough  to  not  be  rare;  season  with  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  serve  very  hot ;  if  allowed 
to  stand  will  become  tough  and  hard. 


32  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Hash. — Chop  fine  cold  boiled  or  roast  beef,  veal  or  mutton  ; 
take  out  any  particles  of  gristle ;  pare  and  cut  into  small  dice  cold 
boiled  potatoes;  mix  together  half  .and  half,  put  into  a  porcelain 
lined  skillet,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  almost  cover  with 
cream  and  let  simmer  slowdy  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  or  long 
enough  for  the  cream  to  thicken ;  add  a  small  piece  of  butter  just 
before  taking  from  the  fire.  A  little  stock  can  be  used  instead  of 
the  cream.  Let  fry  to  skillet  and  serve  brown  scrapings  with  it. 
It  is  a  mistaken  idea  that  good  hash  can  be  made  from  any  kind 
of  meat. 

Corn  Beef  Hash. — Proceed  the  same  as  for  beef  hast,  using 
the  corn  beef. 

To  Cure  Beef  or  Tongues. — Six  pounds  salt,  three  pounds 
sugar,  one-quarter  pound  saltpetre,  four  gallons  of  water.  Scald 
the  mixture,  skim  it,  and  when  cold  put  the  beef  into  it.  The 
round  to  be  used  for  drying  should  be  taken  out  at  the  end  of 
three  weeks  and  either  smoked  or  dried.  The  tongues  can  be 
left  in  for  a  longer  time. — Airs.  J.  G.  Butler. 

Smoked  Tongue. — Soak  them  over  night,  if  very  hard, 
longer ;  cover  with  water,  boil  slowly  three  or  four  hours  or  until 
tender ;  peel  ofT  the  skin  while  warm,  when  cold  slice  thin. 

Braised  Tongue. — Take  a  fresh  beef  tongue  and  make  a 
hole  in  the  little  end  of  it,  put  a  cord  through  and  draw  the  big 
and  little  ends  of  the  tongue  together  and  tie  firmly.  Put  the 
tongue  in  a  kettle  and  cover  with  sfood  rich  stock,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  boil  slowly  until  tender  (about  two  hours.) 
Set  ofif  the  stove  and  let  the  tongue  lay  in  the  stock  until  cold. 
(The  stock  will  do  for  soup.)  Then  skin  the  tongue,  put  in  a 
kettle  with  a  pint  of  very  rich  beef  stock,  one  gill  of  Madeira 
wine,  one  cup  of  onion,  carrot  and  a  stock  of  celery  (chopped 
fine  and  fried  in  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter)  and  half  a  cup 
of  ripe  tomatoes.  Let  simmer  slowly  for  one-half  hour  and 
serve. — Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 

Dried  Beef  in  Cream. — Shave  the  beef  very  thin,  pour  over 
it  boiling  water,  let  it  stand  for  a  few  minutes  ;  pour  this  ofif  and 
pour  on  good  rich  cream ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  if  you  have  no 
cream  use  milk  and  butter  and  thicken  with  a  very  little  flour. 
Season  with  pepper  and  serve  on  toast  or  not,  as  you  like. — Mrs. 
W.  S.  Bonnell. 


MEATS  33 

Frizzled  Beef. — Shave  dried  beef  very  thin,  put  into  a 
frying  pan  when  good  and  hot ;  put  in  the  beef  and  shake  or  stir 
until  heated  through ;  season  with  pepper.  Serve  in  this  way,  or 
just  before  serving  beat  one  egg  Hght  and  stir  in. 

To  Cure  Tongues. — Scald  together  three  quarts  salt,  one  of 
molasses,  one  of  brown  sugar  and  two  ounces  of  saltpetre  in  six 
quarts  of  water;  strain  into  a  jar;  when  cold,  wash  and  trim  your 
tongues  and  drop  them  into  the  brine  keeping  them  covered  by 
putting  a  plate  over  them.  Let  them  remain  at  least  six  weeks 
in  the  brine,  when  they  may  be  taken  out,  wiped  dry  and  strung 
ready  for  smoking. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Devilled  Kidney. — Prepare  two  beef  kidneys,  cut  up  and 
parboil  one  hour.  In  an  iron  frying  pan  fry  four  slices  of  bacon  and 
one  onion  until  all  are  well  browned;  then  put  in  the  pieces  of 
kidney  and  brown  that  also ;  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  little  thyme  and  a  pinch  of  powdered  nutmeg;  dredge  all 
well  with  flour,  add  one  cup  of  tomato,  one  cup  of  water,  cover 
closely  and  simmer  slowly  one  hour. — Nezv  Orleans. 

To  Devil  Meats. — To  "devil"  anything  is  to  make  it  very 
hot  by  means  of  cayenne  pepper,  black  pepper,  mustard,  etc.,  as 
well  as  by  fire.  Cold  meat  is  devilled  by  sprinkling  it  with  mixed 
cayenne,  black  pepper  and  salt,  then  rubbing  the  meat  with 
French  mustard  and  making  it  hot  through  over  a  grid-iron. 
Sometimes  the  pepper,  etc.,  is  mixed  with  butter,  the  meat  cut 
in  gashes  and  the  mixture  inserted  in  the  gashes,  then  grilled. 
Drum  sticks  of  fowls  should  be  cut  in  gashes  long-ways,  the 
mixture  inserted — say  French  mustard  and  cayenne — then  but- 
tered and  grilled. 

VEAL 

Roast  Veal. — Take  a  loin  of  veal,  make  a  stuffing  the  same 
as  for  roast  turkey,  fill  the  flank  with  the  stuffing  and  secure  it 
firmly  onto  the  loin ;  rub  the  veal  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 
butter,  put  it  into  a  pan  with  a  little  water;  while  roasing,  baste 
frequently,  letting  it  cook  until  thoroughly  done,  allowing  two 
hours  for  a  roast  weighing  from  six  to  eight  pounds ;  when  done, 
remove  the  threads  before  sending  to  the  table.  Thicken  the 
gravy  with  a  little  flour. 


34  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Veal  Cutlets. — Cut  into  nice  pieces,  season,  dip  in  egg, 
then  bread  crumbs  with  a  httle  lemon  and  parsley  chopped  fine ; 
have  plenty  of  grease  in  your  pan  hot;  fry  brown  on  one  side, 
then  turn  over,  make  a  rich  brown  gravy  in  another  vessel  and 
serve;  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon. — Mrs.  Francis. 

Veal  Cutlets. — Choose  the  cutlets  from  the  round,  cut 
about  one-half  an  inch  thick,  brush  them  with  egg,  season,  fry  a 
light  brown  in  lard  and  butter,  pour  over  gravy  made  by  pouring 
into  a  sauce  pan  a  cupful  of  cream. — Mrs.  Jonathan  Warner. 

Veal  Loaf. — Three  pounds  veal,  ground  fine,  one-quarter 
pound  salt  pork  with  the  veal,  one  cup  rnilk,  two  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  salt,  crumbs  of  two 
large  slices  of  bread,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Bake  two  and 
one-half  hours.  Mix  the  veal,  pork,  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper 
well  together,  add  butter  melted,  then  the  milk ;  last,  the  eggs 
beaten.  Mix  all  thoroughly  with  hands ;  let  stand  in  pans  to 
cool. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonncll. 

Veal  Loaf. — Three  pounds  raw  veal  chopped  very  fine,  three 
eggs  beaten  very  lightly,  three  tablespoonfuls  cream ;  mix  the 
eggs  and  cream  together,  four  pounded  crackers ;  mix  with  veal 
one  teaspoonful  pepper,  one  large  tablespoonful  salt,  one  large 
tablespoonful  parsley  or  sage.  Bake  two  and  one-half  hours  in 
a  deep  pan ;  put  cracker  crumbs,  a  little  butter  and  some  water 
on  top. — Mrs.  Frederick  C.  Evans. 

Veal  Omelet. — Three  pounds  veal  chopped  fine,  six  table- 
spoonfuls  rolled  crackers,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  cream, 
pepper,  salt  and  butter;  mix  into  a  loaf,  spread  with  butter,  egg 
and  flour  and  bake  about  one  hour. 

Veal  Croquettes. — Mince  veal  fine,  mix  one-half  cup  of 
milk  with  one  teaspoonful  flour  and  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg;  cook  until  it  thickens,  stir  into  the  meat,  roll  into  balls, 
dip  in  egg  with  a  little  milk  stirred  in,  roll  in  brown  bread  crumbs, 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

Veal  Birds. — Remove  the  fat,  skin  and  bone  from  very 
thin  slices  of  veal,  then  pound  until  one-quarter  inch  thick,  trim 
in  pieces  2H  by  4  inches,  chop  the  trimming  fine  with  a  square 
inch  of  salt  pork ;  for  each  two  birds  add  half  as  much  more 
bread  crumbs  as  you  have  chopped  meat.     Season    high    with 


MEATS  35 

salt,  pepper  and  sweet  herbs,  lemon  juice,  paprika  and  onion 
juice ;  moisten  with  a  little  hot  water,  add  an  egg  beaten,  spread 
the  mixture  on  each  slice  of  veal  nearly  to  the  edge,  roll  up  tightly 
and  facten  well  with  tooth  pick,  dredge  with  flour,  salt,  pepper 
and  saute  a  golden  brown  in  butter,  then  half  cover  with  cream 
and  cook  very  slowly  until  tender.  Serve  on  toast,  garnish  with 
toasted  points,  lemon  and  parsley. 

Veal  Cheese. — Take  equal  quantities  of  sliced  boiled  veal 
and  sliced  boiled  tongue ;  pound  each  separately  in  a  mortar  adding 
butter  as  you  do  so;  mix  them  in  a  stone  jar,  press  it  hard  and 
pour  on  melted  butter;  keep  it  covered  in  a  dry  place.  When 
cold,  cut  in  thin  slices  for  tea  or  lunch. 

Scotch  Gallops. — Cut  veal  into  thin  slices,  beat  with  a 
pounder,  dip  them  into  yolk  of  egg  and  fry  brown ;  have  ready 
warm  to  pour  over  them,  one-half  pint  of  gravy,  two  large  spoon- 
fuls of  cream,  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  a  very  little  flour  and  butter 
stirred  smooth ;  season,  stew  until  of  a  fine  thickness. 

Mock  Terrapin. — Half  a  calf's  liver,  season  and  fry  brown, 
hash  it  but  not  very  fine,  flour  it  thickly,  then  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  mixed  mustard,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  two  hard  boiled  eggs 
chopped  fine,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  teacup  of 
water ;  let  it  boil  a  minute  or  two.  Cold  veal  will  do  as  well  as 
liver. — Mrs.  R,  W.  Tayler. 

Pate  de  Veau. — Of  veal,  three  and  one-half  pounds  of  fat 
and  lean,  a  slice  of  salt  pork  about  one-half  pound,  six  small 
crackers  powdered  very  fine,  two  eggs,  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  of 
black  or  white  pepper,  one  grated  nutmeg ;  chop  the  meat  all  very 
fine  and  mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly,  put  in  a  dripping  pan 
with  a  little  water,  make  it  into  a  loaf,  bake  about  two  hours 
basting  it  constantly;  leave  it  to  get  cold  and  slice  as  head- 
cheese.— Mrs.  R.  IV.  Taylor. 

Broiled  Calves'  Liver  with  Bacon. — Procure  a  nice  calf's 
liver,  wash  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  broil  over  a  clear  fire  with  thin 
slices  of  breakfast  bacon ;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. — 
Mrs.   W.  Scott  Bonnell. 

Veal  Hash. — Take  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water  in  a  sauce 
pan,  stir  into  it  an  even  teaspoonful  of  flour  wet  in  a  tablespoonful 


36  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

of  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes ;  add  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  black  pepper,  as  much  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  let  it  keep  hot  but  not  boil.  Chop  the  veal  fine  and 
mix  with  half  as  much  stale  bread  crumbs,  put  into  a  pan  and 
pour  the  gravy  over  it ;  then  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes.  Serve 
this  on  buttered  toast. — Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

Fillet  of  Veal  (Roasted  in  the  Pot). — Remove  the  bone 
and  fill  the  cavity  with  a  force-meat  made  of  bread  crumbs,  a 
very  little  salt  pork,  chopped  fine,  sage,  pepper,  salt  and  ground 
cloves ;  lay  in  the  pot  a  layer  of  slices  of  salt  pork,  put  in  the 
fillet,  fasten  with  skewers,  coover  in  the  same  manner,  pour  over 
a  pint  of  good  stock,  cover  down  close  and  let  it  cook  slowly  two 
or  three  hours ;  then  take  off  the  cover,  let  it  brown  and  serve. 

Veal  Steak. — Beat  them  until  tender,  then  broil  over  clear, 
hot  coals  until  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter,  send  to  the  table  while  hot.  A  gravy  made 
by  stewing  in  a  little  hot  water  pieces  of  veal  with  a  few  oysters 
or  mushrooms,  seasoned,  and  poured  over  the  steak  is  very  nice. 

Breaded  Veal  Chops  with  Tomato  Sauce. — Have  the 
chops  cut  one-half  inch  thick  from  the  loin  of  veal,  dip  into 
beaten  egg  and  then  into  finely  sifted  bread  crumbs,  saute  in  half 
butter  and  half  lard  or  sausage  drippings.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce,  poured  over  on  hot  platter. 

MUTTON  AND  LAMB 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton. — Put  on  in  cold  water  with  a  little 
salt,  boil  two  hours  and  a  half;  make  a  sauce  of  melted  butter — 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  stirred  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  well,  then  stir  into  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water  with  a  little 
parsley  chopped  fine ;  put  into  a  sauce  tureen  on  the  table  and 
garnish  the  dish  with  boiled  cauliflower  and  parsley. 

Ragout  Mutton. — Take  two  pounds  of  the  shoulder  of 
mutton,  cut  the  meat  into  pieces  about  two  inches  square ;  to 
this  add  one  large  onion  cut  up,  about  five  medium  sized  potatoes 
and  two  small  carrots  cut  in  slices ;  more  than  cover  with  water 
and  cook  until  all  are  tender,  then  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little 
flour  and  butter  stirred  smooth  together;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 


MEATS 


37 


Haricot  Mutton.— Loin  chop,  fry  until  brown,  dredge  with 
flour,  put  into  boihng  water,  or  if  you  have  it,  weak  soup,  cut 
carrots  into  small  pieces,  then  simmer  for  two  hours,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Steak  cooked  in  the  same  wav  is  very  nice. — 
Mrs.  Wm.  Bonnell. 

Breast  of  Mutton  and  Green  Peas. — Select  a  breast  of 
mutton  not  very  fat,  cut  it  into  small  square  pieces,  dredge  it 
with  flour  and  fry  a  fine  brown  in  butter;  add  pepper  and  salt; 
cover  it  with  water  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  to  stew  until  the 
meat  is  perfectly  tender;  take  out  the  meat,  skim  off  all  the  fat 
from  the  gravy  and  just  before  serving  add  a  quart  of  young 
peas  previously  boiled  with  the  strained  gravy  and  let  the  whole 
boil  gently  until  the  peas  are  done. 

Mutton  Chops. — Have  them  trimmed  from  fat  and  skin, 
dip  each  one  into  beaten  egg,  then  in  pounded  cracker,  fry  in  hot 
lard  or  drippings.  It  is  still  better  to  bake  them  very  slowly  in 
the  oven. — Mrs.  John  McCurdy. 

Roast  Lamb. — Choose  a  hind  quarter  of  lamb,  stuff  it  with 
fine  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  butter  and  a  little  sage.  Sew 
the  flap  firmly  to  keep  in  place,  rub  the  outside  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  a  little  of  the  stuffing  and  roast  two  hours.  Serve  with 
mint  sauce. 

Crown  Roast  of  Lamb. — The  loin  and  ribs  of  lamb  are 
required  for  this  roast;  have  the  butcher  split  the  bones  between 
the  chops,  then  trim  each  bone  down  to  the  fleshy  part  of  the 
chop ;  he  should  also  cut  off  each  bone  to  equal  lengths,  then  form 
a  circle  of  the  chops  and  tie  firmly  together.  Roast  as  you  would 
a  leg  of  lamb,  basting  frequently.  When  done,  place  on  a  hot 
platter,  fill  the  center  with  green  peas  (previously  cooked  and 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter),  remove  the  string  from 
the  meat  and  cover  each  chop  end  with  a  paper  frill. 

To  Grill  a  Shoulder  of  Lamb. — Half  boil  it,  score  it  and 
cover  it  with  egg  crumbs  and  parsley  seasoned ;  broil  it  over  a 
very  clear  and  slow  fire  or  brown  in  an  oven.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce. 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops. — Grate  plenty  of  stale  bread,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  have  ready  some  well  beaten  egg,  have  a 
spider  with  hot  lard  ready,  take  the  chops  one  by  one,  dip  into 


38  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

the  egg,  then  into  the  bread  crumbs,  repeat  it  as  it  will  be  found 
an  improvement;  then  lay  separately  into  the  boiling  lard,  fry 
brown  and  then  turn,  to  be  eaten  with  currant  jelly  or  grape 
catsup. 

Broiled  Lamb  or  Mutton  Chops. — Cut  the  loin  into  chops, 
remove  a  part  of  the  fat  and  broil ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonnell. 

PORK 

Roast  Pork. — Procure  a  joint  of  fresh  pork,  score  the  skin 
in  narrow  strips ;  prepare  a  stuffing  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  make  incisions  between  the  ribs  and  fill  them  with 
the  stuffing,  rub  the  joint  well  with  sage,  pepper,  salt  and  bread 
crumbs.  It  will  require  about  three  hours  to  roast.  Skim  the  fat 
from  the  gravy,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 

To  Roast  Young  Pig. — Should  be  about  six  weeks  old  and 
should  be  killed  two  or  three  days  before  cooking ;  after  thoroughly 
cleaning ;  soak  from  one  to  two  hours  in  weak  salt  and  water  and 
let  it  hang  over  night.  Make  a  stuffing  of  fine  bread  crumbs 
seasoned  with  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  sage,  fill  the  pig  full  and 
sew  up ;  fasten  the  legs  to  the  side  of  the  pig  to  give  it  a  good 
shape,  salt  and  pepper  the  outside  and  rub  on  a  little  melted  butter ; 
baste  often  until  done.  They  are  nicer  baked  in  a  brick  oven  than 
a  stove ;  bake  for  three  or  four  hours  ;  the  skin  when  done  should  be 
of  a  rich  brown  color  and  crisp. — Mrs.  Jonathan  Warner. 

Spare  Ribs  Baked  and  Broiled. — Season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  baste  often 
while  baking.  After  taking  up  the  ribs,  pour  ofif  the  fat  from 
the  gravy  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  If  liked,  sprinkle  a  little 
sage  over  before  baking.  To  broil  crack  the  bones  and  broil  over  a 
clear  fire  taking  care  that  the  fire  is  not  hot  enough  to  scorch  them. 
— Mrs.  M.  Adelia  Wick. 

Pork  and  Beans. — Take  two  pounds  of  side  pork,  not  too 
fat  nor  too  lean,  to  two  quarts  of  marrow-fat  beans ;  put  the  beans 
to  soak  the  night  before  you  boil  them  in  a  gallon  of  milk-warm 
waterj  after  breakfast,  scald  and  scrape  the  rind  of  the  pork  and 
put  on  to  boil  an  hour  before  putting  in  the  beans.    As  soon  as 


MEATS  39 

the  beans  boil  up,  pour  off  the  water  and  put  on  one  gallon  of 
fresh  water ;  boil  until  quite  tender  adding  more  water  if  necessary. 
Great  care  must  be  taken  that  they  do  not  scorch.  When  nearly  as 
stiff  as  mashed  potatoes,  put  into  a  baking  dish,  score  the  pork  and 
put  in  the  center.    Brown  in  the  oven  one  hour. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Pork  and  Beans. — Put  the  beans  to  soak  in  cold  water  the 
night  before  using;  the  next  morning  parboil  them,  strain  out  of 
that  water  into  a  crock,  put  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork  in  the 
center,  pepper  well  and  pour  on  boiling  water  until  covered.  They 
will  be  baked  ready  to  eat  in  five  hours.  They  are  much  improved 
by  staying  in  the  oven  all  day. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Gilman. 

Pork  Chops  or  Tenderloin. — Cut  thin  and  cook  thoroughly ; 
broil  or  fry  plain  or  dip  into  yolk  of  egg  and  bread  crumbs.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

Sausage. — To  ten  pounds  of  ground  meat,  four  ounces  of  salt, 
one  of  pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  powdered  sage.  Grind  the  meat 
very  fine,  the  tenderloin  is  best  but  a  fresh  ham  mixed  with  the 
tenderloin  makes  it  very  nice.  Pack  well  in  a  stone  jar. — Grandma 
Wick. 

Broiled  Pigs  Feet. — Take  the  feet  from  young  pigs,  cut  off 
the  toes,  single  well,  split  and  soak  for  twenty-four  hours  in  good 
strong  salt  and  water ;  then  scrape  thoroughly ;  boil  until  tender ; 
when  cold,  place  on  a  wire  gridiron  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  serve  with  quarters  of  lemon. 

Pigs  Feet  Hash. — Singe  and  scrape  the  feet,  then  wash  clean 
and  put  them  into  salt  and  water  to  soak  over  night,  then  scrape 
again  until  they  are  perfectly  clean  and  boil  them  till  the  meat 
falls  from  the  bones ;  chop  with  a  knife,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  pack  in  a  crock  and  if  the  weather  be  cool  it  will  keep 
some  time.  It  can  be  sliced  and  eaten  cold  or  put  into  a  skillet 
and  fried  until  brown. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick. 

Pigs  Feet  Pickled. — Chop  off  the  toes,  soak  over  night  in 
salt  water;  in  the  morning  scrape  well,  boiling  till  tender;  then 
take  from  the  liquor,  put  into  a  croock,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  to 
one  dozen  feet  put  two  tablespoonsful  of  whole  pepper,  two  grains 
of  cloves  and  two  of  broken  cinnamon  ;  while  the  feet  are  hot,  cover 
with  good,  strong  cold  vinegar,  cover  and  they  will  be  ready  for  use 
in  two  or  three  days. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 


40  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Scrapple. — Clean  and  scrape  a  pig's  head  thoroughly,  having 
previously  removed  the  eyes,  ears  and  the  entire  jaw,  let  stand  in 
salt  and  water  over  night,  then  boil  until  the  flesh  falls  from  the 
bones  and  chop  fine  with  a  little  sage,  salt  and  pepper,  and  return 
to  the  liquor ;  add  enough  sifted  corn  meal  to  thicken,  simmer  until 
of  the  consistency  of  soft  mush — not  too  thick  to  pour;  put  it  in 
pans,  when  cold  and  stiff,  slice  and  fry. 


HAMS 


REMARKS. 

For  boiling,  always  select  an  old,  small  ham. 

For  broiling,  choose  one  recently  cured.  Cold  boiled  ham 
should  be  cut  as  thin  as  possible,  it  is  said  so  thin  as  to  cover  an 
acre.  Grated  ham  is  very  nice  on  sandwiches.  For  luncheon,  cold 
ham  may  be  sliced  very  thin  and  rolled. 

Roast  or  Baked  Ham. — Boil  a  good  sized  ham  three  hours. 
Then  take  off  the  rind  or  skin  and  put  in  dripping  pan.  Put  over  it 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  vinegar  and  stick  cloves  into 
the  ham.    Bake  one  hour. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonncll. 

To  Boil  Ham. — Clean  a  ham  well,  tie  in  a  cloth,  put  into 
cold  water,  cover  up  tight,  boil  hard  five  hours,  then  let  stand  until 
perfectly  cold,  never  taking  off  the  cover  until  cold.  This  is 
nice  sliced. — Mrs.  Ann  Hughes. 

Virginia  Hams. — First  wash  well  the  hams  in  warm  water; 
now  place  it  in  the  boiler  with  say  from  eight  to  ten  gallons  of 
cold  water ;  at  the  commencement  of  cooking  you  will  be  careful  to 
only  simmer  very  slowly  for  the  first  hour,  then  after  steadily  and 
regularly  boil  until  the  ham  is  soft  and  well  done.  To  cook  thor- 
oughly a  ten  pound  ham  requires  say  four  hours  and  other  sizes 
in  like  proportion.  Remove  the  skin  while  the  ham  is  warm.  If 
you  do  not  find  this  good  you  need  not  blame  me.  Virginia  hams 
should  be  kept  ten  days  after  boiling  before  slicing  cold. — Scott. 

To  Broil  Ham. — Cut  thin  slices  about  one-quarter  inch 
in  thickness,  trim  carefully  the  outside  edges,  lay  on  a  gridiron 
and  broil ;  while  hot,  sprinkle  over  it  a  little  pepper  and  put 
pieces  of  butter  on  the  top. 

To  Render  Lard. — Procure  the  finest  of  leaf  lard,  and  after 
washing  and  scraping  clean,  cut  into  small  pieces,  put  into  a 
kettle  with  a  very  little  water  to  prevent  burning,  let  it  cook  slowly 


42  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

until  the  fat  is  entirely  drawn  out  and  the  pieces  are  brown  and 
crisp  and  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  kettle ;  strain  carefully  through 
a  cloth,  tie  up  and  set  away. 

Hog's  Head  Cheese. — Clean  a  hog's  head  thoroughly,  boil 
until  tender ;  when  it  falls  to  pieces  take  out  the  bones,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  press  into  a  crock ;  when  cold  slice. — Mrs.  M.  I. 
Arms. 

To  Fry  Salt  Pork. — Salt  pork,  with  as  little  lean  as  possible, 
is  best;  slice  thin  and  dip  each  slice  in  flour  fried  to  a  delicate 
brown  in  a  hot  skillet ;  serve  at  once. 

To  Salt  Ham  or  Shoulders. — For  every  one  hundred 
pounds  of  ham,  take  six  ounces  of  salt-petre,  two  quarts  of  mo- 
lasses and  ten  pounds  of  salt ;  mix  well  together,  rub  the  hams 
with  the  mixture  thoroughly,  let  them  stand  three  weeks,  then  turn 
over  and  rub  again.     They  will  soon  be  ready  for  use. 


POULTRY 


REMARKS. 

Young,  plump  and  well  fed  but  not  too  fat  poultry  are  the 
best.  The  skin  should  be  fine  grained,  clear  and  white,  the  breast 
full-fleshed  and  broad,  the  legs  smooth.  The  birds  must  be  heavy 
in  proportion  to  their  size. 

As  regards  duck  and  geese,  their  breasts  must  also  be  plump, 
their  feet  flexible  and  yellow.  For  boiling,  white  legged  poultry 
must  be  chosen  because  when  dressed  their  appearance  is  by  far 
the  most  delicate.  The  greatest  precaution  ought  to  be  taken 
to  prevent  poultry  from  getting  at  all  tainted  before  it  is  cooked. 
It  should  be  killed  and  dressed  from  eight  to  ten  hours  before 
cooking.     Care  must  be  taken  to  cook  poultry  thoroughly. 

Boiled  Turkey. — Soak  it  in  salt  and  water  for  an  hour  and  a 
half  to  make  it  white ;  make  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs  and  about 
half  the  quantity  of  suet,  a  little  parsley  and  a  little  lemon  peel 
chopped  fine ;  scald  the  parsley  in  order  to  have  it  green ;  put  all 
of  these  into  the  breast,  tie  lightly  in  a  cloth  and  boil ;  a  young 
turkey  will  boil  in  two  hours,  an  older  one  will  require,  of  course, 
a  longer  time.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon  cut  in  slices.  Serve 
with  white  sauce  which  is  made  as  follows : 

Take  one  cup  of  butter  and  melt  it  and  while  in  the  sauce 
pan  shake  in  three  tablespoonsful  of  flour  until  well  mixed,  then 
add  one  quart  of  milk  stirring  all  the  time  till  it  boils. — Mrs. 
Francis. 

Roast  Turkey. — A  turkey  weighing  not  more  than  eight  or 
nine  pounds  (young)  is  the  best.  Wash  and  clean  thoroughly 
wiping  dry  as  moisture  will  spoil  the  stuffing ;  take  one  small  loaf 
of  bread  grated  fine,  rub  into  it  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
e.gg,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  one  of  salt,  sage  if  liked ; 
rub  all  together  and  fill  the  turkey,  sewing  up  so  that  the  stuffing 
cannot  cook  out ;  always  put  the  giblets  under  the  side  of  the 


44  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

fowl  SO  they  will  not  dry  up,  rub  salt  and  pepper  on  the  outside,  put 
into  a  dripping  pan  with  one  tea-cupful  of  water  basting  often, 
turning  it  till  browned  all  over.  Bake  about  three  hours ;  have  left 
in  the  chopping  bowl  a  little  stuffing,  take  out  the  giblets  and  chop 
fine,  after  taking  out  the  turkey,  put  in  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  stir  until  brown.  Put  the  giblets  into  a  gravy  boat  and 
pour  over  them  the  gravy. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

To  Broil  Turkey. — Select  a  very  young  and  tender  turkey 
— no  others  are  fit  for  broiling.  After  washing  and  wiping  dry. 
split  down  the  middle  of  the  back,  open,  pound  a  little  to  flatten 
out,  then  place  on  a  broiler  over  a  clear  fire,  the  inside  of  the 
turkey  towards  the  fire  first ;  keep  turning  until  nicely  browned 
and  cooked  through ;  put  into  hot  pan  and  work  into  the  fowl 
butter  slightly  warmed,  and  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Turkey,  Chicken  or  Duck  Hash. — Pick  the  meat  from  the 
bone  of  any  cold,  left  over  fowl ;  add  to  this  an  equal  amount  of  cold 
stuffing  and  enough  of  the  gravy  or  cream  to  moisten,  let  it  cook 
for  a  few  moments  only,  season  and  serve. 

Roast  Duck. — Prepare  the  same  as  for  turkey,  adding  to  the 
dressing  two  or  three  finely  chopped  onions.  Serve  with  apple 
sauce. 

Roast  Goose  or  Gosling. — Two  ounces  of  onions  and  half  as 
much  green  sage  chopped  fine,  and  one  coffee-cupful  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Do  not  quite 
fill  the  goose  but  leave  room  to  swell ;  roast  from  one  and  one- 
half  to  two  hours  and  serve  with  gravy  and  apple  sauce. 

Roast  Chicken. — Split  down  the  back,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  plenty  of  butter ;  pour  a  little  water  into  the  pan  and 
while  baking  baste  often,  turning  the  chicken  so  as  to  nicely 
brown  all  over.  When  done,  take  up  the  chicken,  thicken  the 
gravy  with  a  little  flour  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat.  Chickens 
are  nice  stuffed  and  baked  in  the  same  manner  as  turkey. 

Fried  Chicken. — Joint  young  tender  chickens,  if  old,  put  in 
a  stew  pan  with  a  little  water  and  simmer  gently  till  tender ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  into  flour  and  fry  in  hot  lard  and  butter 
until  nicely  browned ;  lay  on  a  hot  platter  and  take  the  liquor  in 
which  the  chicken  was   stewed,  turn  into  the  frying  pan  with 


POULTRY  45 

the  brown  gravy,  stir  in  a  little  flour,  when  it  is  boiled  stir  in  a 
teacup  of  sweet  rich  cream  and  pour  over  the  chicken. — Mrs.  M. 
I.  Arms. 

To  Broil  Chicken. — Only  young-  tender  chickens  are  nice 
broiled.  After  cleaning  and  washing  them,  split  down  the  back, 
wipe  dry,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  lay  them,  inside  down, 
on  a  hot  gridiron  over  a  bed  of  bright  coals.  Broil  until  nicely 
browned  and  well  cooked  through,  watching  and  turning  to  pre- 
vent burning;  broil  with  them  a  little  salt  pork  cut  in  thin  slices. 
After  taking  them  from  the  gridiron,  work  into  them  plenty  of 
butter  and  serve ;  garnish  with  tlie  pork,  slices  of  lemon  and 
parsley. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonnell. 

To  Broil  Chicken. — Split  them  down  the  back  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Lay  them  over  a  very  clear  fire  and  at  a 
great  distance.  Let  the  inside  lie  next  the  fire  until  it  is  about  half 
done,  then  turn  them  and  let  them  be  of  a  fine  brown.  Let  your 
sauce  be  good  gravy  with  mushrooms  and  garnish  with  livers 
broiled,  the  gizzards  cut,  slashed  and  broiled  with  pepper  and 
salt,  or  this  sauce :  Take  a  handful  of  sorrel,  dip  in  boiling  water, 
drain  it  and  have  ready  half  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  a  shallot  shredded 
small  and  some  parsley  boiled  very  green.  Thicken  it  with  a 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  and  add  a  glass  of  red  wine.  Then 
lay  your  sorrel  in  heaps  around  the  fowls  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
them.    Garnish  with  lemon. 

This  quaint  recipe  is  taken  from  "The  Art  of  Cookery"  by 
Mrs.  Glasse  Alexandria,  1812. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Kauffman. 

Fricassed  Chicken. — Cut  and  joint  the  chickens  into  small 
pieces,  cover  with  water  and  boil  till  tender ;  then  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  mix  three  tablespoonsful  of  flour  smooth  with  butter 
the  size  of  an  ^gg;  stir  this  into  a  little  of  the  gravy,  then  turn 
onto  the  chicken ;  let  it  boil  and  serve  by  turning  on  a  platter  over 
slices  of  bread  or  fresh  soda  biscuits  cut  in  halves. 

A  Pretty  Way  of  Stewing  Chicken. — Take  two  fine 
chickens,  half  boil  them,  then  take  them  up  in  a  pewter  or  silver 
dish.  Cut  up  your  fowls,  separate  all  the  joint  bones  one  from 
another  and  then  take  out  the  breast  bones.  If  there  is  not  liquor 
enough  from  the  fowls,  add  a  few  spoonsful  of  the  water  they  were 
boiled  in,  put  in  a  blade  of  mace  and  a  little  salt.  Cover  close  with 
another  dish,  set  it  over  a  stove  or  chafing  dish  of  coals,  let  it  stew 


46  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

until  the  chickens  are  cooked  enough  and  then  send  them  hot  to 
the  table  in  the  same  dish  they  were  stewed  in.  This  is  a  very 
pretty  dish  for  a  sick  person ;  for  a  change  it  is  better  than  butter 
and  the  sauce  is  very  agreeable  and  pretty.  You  may  do  rabbits, 
partridges  or  moor  game  in  this  way. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Kanffman. 

A  Nice  Way  To  Cook  Chicken. — Cut  the  chicken  up,  put 
into  a  pan  and  cover  with  water ;  let  it  stew  as  usual,  when  done, 
make  a  thickeneing  of  cream  and  flour,  add  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  have  ready  a  nice  short  cake,  baked  and  cut  into  squares, 
rolled  thin  as  for  crust ;  lay  the  cakes  on  the  dish  and  pour  the 
chicken  and  gravy  over  them  while  hot. — Mrs.  R.  IV.  Taylcr. 

Chicken  Pie. — Stew  the  chicken  and  make  the  gravy  the  day 
before  as  hot  chicken  will  make  the  lower  crust  soggy.  Make  pie 
crust  as  for  any  pie,  roll  lower  crust  very  thin,  sprinkle  the  pan 
well  with  flour  to  make  the  crust  brown  quickly,  take  the  large 
bones  out  of  the  chicken,  put  into  pie  with  cold  gravy  and  cover 
with  upper  crust ;  have  oven  hot  at  first  so  lower  crust  will  cook 
before  the  chicken  can  melt  and  soak  in ;  then  a  slower  oven  and 
bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 

Chicken  Pie  Crust. — Three  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  lard,  one  cup  of  water,  two  teaspoons  of  salt ;  rub  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  lard  into  the  flour — not  until  fine  but  leave  it 
in  lumps ;  add  salt  and  wet  with  the  water,  then  roll  the  rest  of  the 
lard  in.  Two  chickens  prepared  and  boiled,  as  you  would  for 
stewed  chicken,  until  tender ;  for  gravy  mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  two  of  butter  until  smooth ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  this, 
season  to  taste,  boiling  a  few  minutes  after  thickening.  Let  the 
chicken  and  gravy  stand  until  cool  before  putting  on  the  crust  and 
baking.    Bake  one-half  hour. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 

Chicken  Pot  Pie. — Cut  and  joint  a  fat  chicken,  cover  with 
water  and  let  it  boil  gently  until  tender ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  thicken  the  gravy  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour  mixed 
smooth  with  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  e.gg  ;  have  ready  nice  light 
bread  dough,  roll  out,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  about  an  inch 
thick ;  let  rise  and  when  very  light  drop  this  into  the  boiling 
gravy  (having  previously  removed  the  chicken  to  a  hot  pltter), 
cover,  and  let  it  boil  from  one-half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
To  ascertain  whether  it  is  done  or  not,  stick  into  one  of  them  a 


POULTRY 


47 


fork  and  if  it  comes  out  clean,  it  is  done.    Lay  on  the  platter  with 
the  chicken,  pour  over  the  gravy  and  serve.— Mr^.  Henry  Wick. 

Chicken  Pudding.— Cut  up  the  chickens  and  stew  until  ten- 
der, then  take  them  from  the  gravy  and  spread  on  a  flat  dish  to 
cool— having  first  seasoned  them  well  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt ;  make  a  batter  of  one  quart  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  three 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  a  little  salt.  Butter  a  pudding  dish 
and  put  a  layer  of  the  chicken  on  the  bottom  and  then  a  cupful 
of  the  batter  over  it ;  proceed  until  the  dish  is  full ;  the  batter  must 
form  the  crust.  Bake  an  hour  and  serve  the  thickened  gravy  in  a 
gravy  boat.— Mrj.  John  McCnrdy. 

Chicken  Cheese.— Boil  two  chickens  until  tender,  take  out 
all  the  bones  and  chop  the  meat  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter ;  boil  down  the  liquor  the  chickens  were  boiled  in  until  there 
remains  only  enough  to  make  the  chopped  meat  quite  moist ;  put 
the  meat  into  a  mold  of  any  shape  that  is  desirable  or  convenient ; 
when  cold,  turn  out  and  cut  in  slices.  It  is  excellent  for  picnics 
or  for  hmch.— Mrs.  J.  C.  Wick. 

Minced  Powls.— Remove  from  the  bones  all  the  flesh  of 
either  cold  roast  or  boiled  fowls ;  clean  it  from  the  skin  and  keep 
covered  from  the  air  until  ready  for  use ;  boil  the  bones  and  skin 
with  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  water  until  reduced  quite  half, 
strain  the  gravy  and  let  cool ;  next  (having  first  skimmed  off  all  the 
fat)  put  it  in  a  clean  saucepan  with  a  half  teacup  of  cream,  three 
ounces  of  butter  well  mixed  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  keep 
these  stirred  until  they  boil;  then  put  in  the  fowl  (finely  minced) 
with  three  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  and  sufiicient  salt  and  pepper 
to  season.  Shake  the  mince  over  the  fire  until  just  ready  to 
boil,  dish  it  on  hot  toast  and  serve. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Chicken  en  Casserole.— A  casserole  is  an  earthenware,  fire- 
proof dish  that  can  be  used  for  baking  in  the  oven.  A  nice,  fat, 
tender  chicken — suitable  for  roasting— is  the  best ;  split  down  the 
back,  put  in  the  casserole  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  when 
it  melts,  lay  in  the  chicken  the  inner  side  down;  lay  over  this 
some  very  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  a  carrot,  potatoes  and  a  small 
turnip  (all  cut  in  small  balls  with  a  vegetable  cutter),  an  onion 
sliced,  eight  or  ten  button  mushrooms,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 


48  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Fry  all  together  until  the  chicken  is  a  rich  brown,  turning  occas- 
ionally that  all  sides  are  browned  alike,  then  dip  off  any  super- 
fluous fat,  and  pour  in  a  cup  of  good  stock,  cover  closely  and  let 
simmer  gently  in  the  oven  for  one  hour.  Now  remove  tlic  chicken, 
imjoint  it  and  if  there  is  not  sufficient  gravy  add  a  little  stock,  let 
it  boil  and  thicken  with  a  very  little  flour.  Place  the  chicken  back 
in  the  casserole  for  a  few  moments  only  and  serve  in  the  casserole. 

Chicken  Timbals. — The  breast  of  two  raw  chickens  ground 
in  a  meat  cutter  several  times  until  very  fine.  Stir  in  one  pint  of 
carem  a  little  at  a  time  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Grease 
timbal  cups  thoroughly,  fill  two-thirds  full,  set  in  pan  of  water 
(half  way  up  tins),  cover  pan  closely  and  cook  twenty  minutes. 
Sauce :  One  pint  of  cream,  one  cup  of  chopped  nuishrooms,  heat ; 
thicken  a  little  with  flour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  J. 
H.  McEwen. 

Chicken  Timbals. — Boil  and  grind  fine  one  chicken ;  boil 
and  wash  one  pint  of  Italian  chestnuts,  make  a  rich  cream  sauce  and 
boil  chicken  and  nuts  together  in  the  cream  ;  season  highly.  Before 
taking  off  the  stove  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  put  some  truffles 
in  the  bottom  of  timbal  moulds  and  fill  with  the  paste ;  set  moulds 
in  hot  water  until  ready  to  serve.  Serve  with  cream  sauce. — Mrs. 
Fox,  Saegertozvn. 


GAME 


Wild  Turkey.— Wild  turkeys  are  much  finer  than  the  domes- 
tic birds.  Select  one  that  is  young  and  tender,  stuff  with  chestnuts, 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roast  with  frequent  bastings. 

To  Roast  Venison.— Roast  a  haunch  of  venison  as  you  would 
a  loin  of  veal  and  about  as  long.  If  you  choose,  make  a  plain 
dressing  and  stuff  it ;  baste  often  while  baking. 

Broiled  Venison  Steak.— Broil  quickly  over  a  clear  fire  and 
when  sufficiently  done  pour  over  two  tablespoonsful  of  currant 
jelly,  melted  with  a  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Eat 
while  hot  on  hot  plates.— Mr.y.  JV.  J.  Hitchcock. 

To  Cook  Venison.— Broil  as  you  would  a  beefsteak  rare; 
have  ready  a  gravy  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  very  little 
water;  heat  the  gravy  without  boiling,  score  the  steak  all  over, 
put  it  in  the  gravy  and  cover  tight;  keep  hot  enough  to  steam 
the  meat  and  send  in  a  covered  dish  to  the  table. — Mrs.  R.  W. 
Tayler. 

Prairie  Chicken. — Broil  over  a  quick  fire,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  lemon  juice  and  butter  well  worked  in;  serve  on  giblet 
toast,  which  is  made  by  boiling  to  a  paste  the  livers  of  any  game 
bird  with  as  many  chicken  livers  as  needed,  mash  to  a  paste  with 
some  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked,  a  little  sherry  is 
added  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  spread  on  thin 
slices  of  buttered  toast. 

To  Roast  Partridges,  Pheasants  or  Quail.— Pluck,  singe, 
draw  and  truss  them,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  roast  for  about 
half  an  hour  in  a  brisk  oven  basting  often  with  butter.  When 
done  place  on  a  dish  together  with  bread  crumbs  fried  brown  and 
arranged  in  small  heaps.  Gravy  should  be  served  in  a  tureen 
apart. 


50  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Broiled  Quail  or  Woodcock. — After  dressing,  split  down 
the  back,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  lay  on  a  gridiron,  the 
inside  down.  Broil  slowly  at  first.  Serve  with  cream  gravy — Mrs. 
G.  B.  Woodman. 

To  Roast  Wild  Duck  or  Teal. — After  dressing  soak  them 
over  night  in  salt  and  water  to  draw  out  the  fishy  taste;  then 
in  the  morning  put  them  into  fresh  water,  changing  several  times 
before  roatsing.  Stuff  or  not  as  desired.  Serve  with  currant 
jelly. 

To  Roast  Wild  Fowl. — The  flavor  is  best  preserved  without 
stuffing.  Put  pepper,  salt  and  a  piece  of  butter  into  each ;  wild 
fowl  require  much  less  dressing  than  tame.  They  should  be 
served  of  a  fine  color  and  a  rich  brown  gravy.  To  take  off  the 
fishy  taste  which  wild  fowl  sometimes  have,  put  an  onion,  salt  and 
hot  water  into  the  dripping  pan  and  baste  them  for  the  first  ten 
minutes  with  this,  then  take  away  the  pan  and  baste  constantly 
with  butter. 

Reed  Birds. — Select  long,  sweet  potatoes  of  even  size,  wash, 
dry  and  cut  in  two  lengthwise,  scoop  out  the  inside  leaving  a 
shell  one-quarter  inch  thick.  Take  a  reed  bird  or  half  a  squab,  rub 
it  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  lay  in  one  shell  and  cover  with  the  other ; 
tie  them  together  with  a  string,  cover  each  potato  with  a  strip  of 
pork  and  place  them  in  a  buttered  baking  pan.  Put  in  an  oven  for 
thirty  minutes,  remove  the  pork  at  the  end  of  that  time,  brown  for 
five  minutes,  remove  the  string  but  leave  each  cover  in  place. 
Serve  on  a  hot  napkin. 

Roast  Pigeons. — They  should  be  dressed  while  fresh.  If 
young  they  will  be  ready  for  roasting  in  twelve  hours.  Dress 
carefully  and  after  making  clean,  wipe  dry  and  put  into  each 
bird  a  small  piece  of  butter  dipped  in  cayenne.  Truss  the  wings 
over  the  back  and  roast  in  a  quick  oven,  keeping  them  constantly 
basted  with  butter.  Serve  with  brown  gravy.  Dish  them  with 
young  watercresses. 

Pigeon  Compote. — Truss  six  pigeons  as  for  broiling.  Grate 
the  crumbs  of  a  small  loaf  of  bread,  scraps  one  pound  of  fat  bacon, 
chopped  thyme,  parsley  and  onion  and  lemon  peel  fine,  grate  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  it  up  with 
two  eggs,  put  this  force  meat  into  the  craws  of  the  pigeons,  lard 


GAME 


51 

the  breasts  and  fry  brown.  Place  them  in  a  stew  pan  with  some 
beef  stock  and  stew  them  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  thicken  with 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Serve  with  force  meat  balls 
around  the  dish  and  strain  the  gravy  onto  the  pigeons. 

PiGEONN  Pie.— Dress  and  wash  clean,  split  down  the  back  and 
then  proceed  as  for  chicken  pie.— Mr^.  IV.  S.  Bonnell. 

Fillet  of  Birds  or  Fowls.— Cut  off  the  breast  of  birds,  fry 
or  broil,  season  and  serve  in  overlapping  slices  around  a  pile  of 
fresh  mushrooms,  fry  and  mix  with  the  stewed  livers  of  the  birds 
and  enough  rich  brown  gravy  to  moisten  the  whole. 

Jugged  Hare  or  Rabbit.— Cut  up  as  you  would  chicken  for 
stewing  and  fry  brown,  dredge  with  flour,  put  into  boiling  water 
to  simmer  about  two  hours.  Fry  onions  brown.  Put  into  a  bag 
mace,  allspice,  lemon  peel  and  parsley.  Put  the  bag,  the  onions 
and  a  little  jelly  into  the  stew,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  garnish 
with  force  meat  balls  the  same  as  for  roast  veal.— Afr^.  Wm. 
Bonnell. 

Fried  Rabbit  or  Squirrel.— After  the  rabbit  has  been  thor- 
oughly cleaned  and  washed,  put  it  into  boiling  water  and  let  it 
boil  for  about  ten  minutes,  drain  and  when  cold  cut  it  into  joints, 
dip  into  beaten  egg  and  then  into  fine  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper.  When  all  are  ready,  fry  them  in  butter  over  a 
moderate  fire  fifteen  minutes.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  an  ounce 
of  butter  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Give  it  a  minute's 
boil,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  dish  the  rabbit  and  pour 
the  sauce  over  it  and  serve  quickly. 

Stewed  Rabbit. — Skin  and  clean  the  rabbit,  cut  into  pieces, 
put  a  quarter  pound  of  butter  into  a  stew  pan  and  turn  the  pieces 
of  rabbit  about  in  it  until  nicely  browned,  take  out  the  meat,  add 
one  pint  of  boiling  water  to  the  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour 
stirred  to  a  paste  in  cold  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a 
little  grated  onion,  if  liked.  Let  this  boil  up,  add  the  meat  stew 
slowly  till  the  rabbit  is  tender ;  serve  hot. 


VEGETABLES 


REMARKS. 


Green  vegetables  should  be  cooked  the  same  day  they  are 
gathered.  All  vegetables  should  be  washed  before  using,  except 
corn  and  peas,  which  should  be  husked  and  shelled  with  clean 
hands  and  not  washed  as  some  of  the  sweetness  is  thereby  ex- 
tracted. Reject  stale  and  withered  ones.  They  should  be  put  in 
boiling  water  with  a  little  salt  and  only  just  time  allowed  to  cook 
them,  as  they  should  be  sent  to  the  table  as  soon  as  done. 

In  boiling  vegetables  the  great  point  is  not  to  let  the  boiling 
stop.  An^  vegetable  peeled  should  be  thrown  into  cold  water  until 
it  is  wanted  to  boil.  Green  vegetables  are  better  color  if  not 
covered  with  the  lid  to  shut  in  the  steam.  Try  vegetables  with  a 
fork;  if  tender,  they  are  done.  Old  potatoes  should  be  put  into 
cold  water,  new  potatoes  into  boiling  water. 

Steamed  Potatoes. — Potatoes  are  much  more  nutritiuos  and 
palatable  if  properly  steamed,  than  boiled.  Wash  clean,  place  in 
a  steamer  over  boiling  water  and  steam  rapidly,  otherwise  will  not 
seem  done  no  mtter  how  long  they  have  been  cooked.  They  should 
steam  until  the  skins  crack  and  the  fork  will  easily  penetrate  them. 
Do  not  take  from  the  steamer  until  time  for  serving  or  they  will 
become  too  solid.     Skin  and  serve. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Take  medium  sized  potatoes.  Wash  clean, 
have  a  hot  oven.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes  to  one-half  hour,  do 
not  leave  the  oven  door  open  one  second ;  if  you  do,  your  potato 
skins  become  soft ;  crisp  skin  to  a  boked  potato  is  the  best  part  of 
it. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 

Mashed  Potatoes. — Wash  and  cut  into  halves  or  quarters, 
put  into  boiling  water,  boil  one-half  hour.  When  done  pour  off 
all  the  water,  add  salt,  mash  perfectly  smooth,  then  add  a  little 
cre^m  if  you  have  it,  if  not,  milk,  and  beat  well  with  fork  or  spoon. 
The  beating  makes  them  light. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick, 


Vegetables  53 

To  Cook  New  Potatoes.— Remove  the  skin  by  scraping  with 
a  knife.  Boil,  in  water  to  cover,  with  a  little  salt.  When  done 
drain  off  the  water,  let  stand  for  a  few  moments  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  to  dry  off,  then  half  cover  with  cream  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Allow  the  cream  to  boil  up  around  the  potatoes  for  a  few 
moments  and  add,  the  last  thing  before  serving,  a  small  piece  of 
butter. 

Grilled  Potatoes.— Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  peel  and  slice 
them  in  slices  one-third  of  an  inch  thick.  Dip  them  into  dis- 
solved butter,  place  on  a  gridiron  over  a  very  clear  fire,  grill 
them  until  nicely  browned  underneath,  then  turn  them  and  when 
a  nice  color,  put  them  on  a  heated  dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonnell. 

Stewed  Potatoes.— A  watery  potato  is  preferable  to  a  mealy 
potato  for  stewing  and  when  the  Peerless  can  be  obtained  they 
are  the  best.  Boil  with  the  skins  on  the  day  before  using.  When 
ready  to  use,  pare  them  and  cut  into  small  dice  but  do  not  chop 
them.  Put  into  a  porcelain  lined  skillet,  cover  with  good  cream^ 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  let  the  cream  boil  up  around  them 
until  the  consistency  desired,  stirring  occasionally  but  carefully. 
Just  before  serving,  add  a  little  piece  of  butter. — Mrs  Henry 
Wick. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin.— After  following  the  above  recipe, 
place  the  potatoes  in  a  porcelain  baking  dish,  sprinkle  the  top 
with  finely  sifted  bread  crumbs  and  tiny  pieces  of  butter.  Grated 
cheese  can  also  be  added  over  the  top  of  the  potatoes  if  liked.  Set 
in  a  hot  oven  long  enough  to  brown. 

Saratoga  Potatoes.— Peel  and  slice  on  a  slaw  cutter  into  cold 
water,  wash  thoroughly  and  drain.  Spread  between  the  folds  of 
a  clean  cloth,  rub  and  pat  until  dry.  Fry  a  few  at  a  time  in  boiling 
lard;  salt  as  you  take  them  o\\\..—Mrs.  Henry  Garlick. 

Home  Fried  Potatoes.— Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  chop 
fine.  Have  your  frying  pan  hot  with  a  little  sweet  lard  or  roast 
beef  drippings.  Stir  and  fry  quickly  until  brown.  Serve  hot  as 
soon  as  done.    Good.— ^F.  Scott  Bonnell. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes.— Put  into  your  frying  pan  about  two 
ounces  of  butter  and  when  melted  slice  fine  into  this  two  onions 
and  fry  until  half  done.    Then  add  about  a  quart  of  cold  boiled 


54  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

potatoes  sliced,  with  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  two  ounces  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  and  toss  gently  until  the 
potatoes  are  all  fried  a  nice  brown  color. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Duchess  Potatoes. — Mash  five  potatoes  nicely,  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  the  yolk  of  one 
egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Press  through  a  pastry  bag  in  nice 
shapes  on  a  greased  pan,  brush  over  with  &gg  and  bake  a  nice 
brown. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Stewart. 

Waldorf  Potatoes. — One  quart  of  chopped  boiled  potatoes, 
one  tablespoonful  of  grated  onion,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
almost  one  pint  of  rich  cream.  Let  bake  in  baking  dish  one-half 
hour. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonnell. 

French  Fried  Potatoes. — Pare  small  raw  potatoes,  cut  in 
halves,  then  each  half  in  quarters  lengthwise.  Put  a  handful  into 
a  frying  basket,  immerse  in  boiling  hot  lard  until  a  delicate  brown, 
drain  in  the  colander,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  If  your  lard 
is  too  hot,  the  potatoes  will  become  too  brown  before  cooking 
through.  If  not  hot  enough  will  soak  up  the  grease  and  become 
soggy.    Serve  at  once. 

QuiRLED  Potatoes. — Peel,  boil,  mash  and  season  as  mashed 
potatoes.  Then  put  them  into  a  colander,  pressing  them  through 
into  the  dish  you  wish  to  serve  them  in.  Set  in  the  oven  and 
brown. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Wick. 

Fried  Raw  Potatoes. — Pare  large  potatoes,  cut  in  slices 
quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Have  hot  in  the  skillet  drippings 
or  lard  and  butter  mixed.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  skillet  with 
sliced  raw  potatoes.  When  a  light  brown  on  one  side,  turn.  Keep 
covered  while  cooking.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  R. 
McMillan. 

Potatoes  Roasted  With  Meat. — Pare  medium  sized  pota- 
toes, and  about  one-half  hour  before  the  roast  is  done,  place  in 
the  dripping  pan  with  the  roast  of  meat.  Baste  with  the  gravy 
and  serve  around  the  roast. 

Escalloped  Potatoes  With  Cheese. — Put  a  layer  of  thinly 
sliced  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  a  fireproof  dish,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  grated  cheese,  add  another 
layer  of  potatoes  and  so  on  until  all  are  used.  Pour  over  all  a 
white  sauce  made  with  a  cupful  of  cream  thickened  with  a  tea- 


VEGETABLES  5  5 

Spoonful  of  flour,  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  one  egg.  Sprinkle 
the  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  one-half  hour. 
— Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 

EscALLOPED  Potatoes. — Put  alternate  layers  of  sliced  cold 
boiled  potatoes  and  slices  of  hard  cold  boiled  eggs  into  a  baking 
dish.  Cover  with  cream,  finely  grated  bread  crumbs  over  the 
top  and  a  piece  of  butter.  Let  cook  in  oven  about  one-half  hour. 
—Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick,  Elyria. 

Potato  Croquettes  or  Balls. — Four  large  mealy  potatoes 
cold.  Mash  them  in  a  pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh  melted 
butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  cream 
and  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg.  Rub  it  together  for  about  five 
minutes  or  until  very  smooth.  Shape  the  mixture  into  balls  about 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  or  small  rolls.  Dip  them  into  an  egg  well 
beaten  and  then  into  the  finest  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Fry  them  in 
boiling  lard. — Miss  Sallie  Arms. 

Potato  Ribbons. — Wash  and  peel  large  potatoes.  Let  them 
lie  in  cold  water  for  few  moments,  cut  them  into  ribbons  round 
and  round  like  an  apple  and  keep  the  strips  as  nearly  as  possible 
of  one  width.  They  must  not  be  too  thin  or  they  will  break.  Frv 
them  in  plenty  of  smoking  hot  fat  until  they  are  lightly  browned. 
Drain  them  on  a  wire  sieve  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper 
over  them.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Sweet  Potatoes. —  (To  boil,  to  fry,  to  bake.) — Sweet  po- 
tatoes require  more  time  to  cook  than  common  potatoes. 

To  Boil. — Take  large  fine  potatoes,  wash  clean,  boil  with  the 
skins  on  in  plenty  of  water  but  without  salt.  They  will  take  at 
least  one  hour.  Drain  off  the  water  and  set  them  for  a  few  minutes 
in  a  tin  pan  before  the  fire  or  on  the  stove  that  they  may  be  well 
dried.    Peel  them  before  sending  to  the  table. 

To  Fry. — Choose  large  potatoes,  boil  them,  and  then  having 
taken  off  the  skins,  cut  the  potatoes  in  slices  and  fry  in  butter 
or  in  nice  drippings. 

To  Bake. — Bake  as  the  common  potato  except  give  them  a 
longer  time. 

Sweet  Potato  Croquetts. — Four  good  sized  sweet  potatoes 
equal  three  cups  of  potatoes.     Boil  with  the  jackets  on,  skin  and 


56  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

press.  Mash  while  still  hot,  mix  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
tablespoonful  of  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper.  Mix  over  a  fire  in  a  sauce  pan  until  the  po- 
tatoes come  away  from  the  sides  of  the  pan.  Turn  out  into  a  flat 
dish,  when  cool  form  into  cork  shaped  croquettes.  Cover  with 
egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. — Miss  Isabella 
McCurdy. 

Turnips. — Pare  and  cut  in  pieces,  put  them  into  boiling  water 
with  a  little  salt.  Boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half ;  when  quite  tender, 
drain,  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  a  moment  to  evaporate  the 
water  and  then  mash  fine.  Season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
(Some  use  cream  which  makes  them  very  nice.)  Stir  them  over 
the  fire  until  they  are  thoroughly  mixed.  Turnips  should  be 
served  hot. — Mrs.  Wm.  Bonnell. 

Creamed  Turnips. — Pare  the  turnips,  and  cut  into  dice;  put 
directly  into  cold  water;  then  cook  in  salted  boiling  water  until 
tender;  drain  them,  pour  over  them  a  white  sauce  made  in  the 
proportion  of  one  tablespoon  of  butter  to  two  of  flour  melted 
together,  and  mixed  with  hot  milk  or  cream. — Mrs.  S.  J.  McElevey. 

Beets. — Boil  with  the  skins  on  as  they  bleed  if  cut  previous  to 
boiling.  Young  beets  will  cook  tender  in  one  hour.  Winter  beets 
will  require  three  or  four  hours'  boiling.  Make  a  dressing  of  a 
little  water,  butter,  pepper  and  salt  with  a  little  weak  vinegar. 
Some  do  not  add  vinegar  until  at  the  table. 

Green  Corn  on  the  Cob. — Take  ofif  the  oustide  leaves  and 
the  silk,  letting  the  innermost  leaves  remain  on  until  after  the  corn 
is  boiled,  which  renders  the  corn  much  sweeter.  Boil  for  half  an 
hour  in  plenty  of  water,  drain  and  after  removing  the  leaves  and 
silk,  serve. 

Green  Corn  Roasted  on  the  Ear. — Spread  ears  of  green 
sweet  corn  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Lay  them  in  a  dripping 
pan  and  set  as  close  as  possible  before  clear  hot  coals.  Turn  the 
ears  as  they  brown  until  all  are  browned  and  serve  hot  or  set 
the  pan  in  a  very  hot  oven  and  brown  the  corn. 

Green  Corn  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar, 
one  dozen  large  ears  of  corn.  Grate  the  corn  from  the  cob,  beat 
the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately,  put  the  corn  and 


VEGETABLES  py 

yolks  together,  stir  hard  and  add  the  melted  butter,  then  the  milk 
gradually,  stirring  hard  all  the  time.  Next  the  sugar  and  then 
the  whites  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  slowly,  covering  the  dish  at  first. 
It  will  bake  in  about  one  hour.— Afr^.  John  McCurdy. 

Green  Corn  PuDDiNc.-Twelve  ears  of  corn,  one  pint  of 
milk,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  one 
of  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  together,  cutting  the  whites 
through.     Bake  thirty  to  thirty-five  minues.— Mr^.  P.  B.  Owen. 

Lima  Beans.— Shell,  wash  and  put  into  boiling  water  with  a 
little  salt.  When  boiled  tender,  drain  and  season  them  and  either 
dress  with  cream  or  a  lump  of  butter  and  let  simmer  for  a  few 
moments. 

String  or  Butter  BsANS.-String  and  cut  them  into  pieces 
one-half  inch  long.  When  boiled  tender,  drain,  season  and  dress 
with  cream. 

Boiled  Onions.— Skin  them  thoroughly.  Put  them  to  boil; 
when  they  have  boiled  a  few  moments,  pour  off  the  water  and 
add  clear  cold  water  and  then  set  them  to  boil  again.  Pour  this 
away  and  add  more  cold  water,  when  they  may  boil  till  done.  This 
will  make  them  white  and  clear  and  very  mild  in  flavor.  After  they 
are  done,  pour  off  all  the  water  and  dress  with  a  little  cream,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

Stuffed  Onions.— Select  large  common  onions,  peel  them 
and  a  little  more  than  cover  them  with  water  slightly  salted.  When 
tender,  drain  and  remove  with  a  sharp  knife,  from  the  center  of 
each,  the  core,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  onion.  Fill  this 
space  with  cold  chicken  veal,  butter,  sweetbreads  chopped  very 
fine,  season  well.  To  a  cupful  of  chopped  meat  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  or  soup  stock,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  bread  crumbs.  Set  on  the 
stove  to  heat  and  stir  in  one  egg.  Fill  the  space  in  the  onion  with 
this  dressing,  cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper.    Set  in  the  oven  lopg  enough  to  brown. 

Saute  Onions.— Pare  and  slice  them,  let  them  stew  for  a 
httle  while  in  hot  water,  then  drain  the  water  off,  season  and  fry 
brown  in  drippings. 

Fried  Onions.— Slice  Spanish  or  Bermuda  onions  very  thin. 
Let  stand  in  ice  water  one  hour,  then  lay  on  a  clean  cloth  as  Sar- 


58  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

atogo  potatoes  would  be  treated.     Fry  in  deep  lard  very  hot. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 

Spinach. — Good  spinach  requires  washing  and  close  pick- 
ing. Boil  twenty  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Drain,  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  garnish  the  dish  with  slices  of  hard 
boiled  eggs. 

Spinach. — Boil  and  chop.  Put  into  a  squeezer,  mix  with 
seasoning  and  cream ;  put  into  moulds.  After  turning  out  cover 
with  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped,  and  sprinkle  over  the  top. — Mrs  P. 
B.  Ozvens. 

Stewed  Celery. — Clean  the  heads  thoroughly.  Take  off  the 
coarse,  green,  outer  leaves.  Cut  in  small  pieces  and  stew  in  a 
little  broth.  When  tender,  add  some  rich  cream,  a  little  flour  and 
butter  enough  to  thicken  the  cream.  Season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  a  little  nutmeg,  if  that  is  agreeable. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Wick. 

Peas. — Shell,  wash  in  cold  water,  cook  them  until  tender. 
Take  from  the  water  with  a  skimmer  and  season  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.     Some  prefer  cream  added. 

Asparagus. — Cook  only  the  tender,  green  stocks.  Cut  them 
of  equal  length  and  boil  in  water  with  a  little  salt  till  tender. 
While  the  asparagus  is  cooking,  prepare  some  nicely  toasted  bread, 
lay  the  asparagus  on  the  toast  and  season  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  or  pour  over  a  little  cream  previously  scalded.  Asparagus 
can  also  be  served  with  a  hoUandaise  sauce. 

Parsnip  Stew. — Threee  slices  of  salt  pork,  boil  one  hour 
and  a  half ;  scrape  tive  large  parsnips,  cut  in  quarters  lengthwise, 
add  to  the  pork  and  let  boil  one-half  hour.  Then  add  a  few  potatoes 
and  let  all  boil  together  until  the  potatoes  are  soft.  The  fluid 
in  the  kettle  should  be  about  a  cupful  when  ready  to  take  off. — 
Mrs.  M.  Adelia  Wick. 

Fried  Parsnips. — Wash  parsnips,  scrape  and  boil  them  till 
tender.  Then  cut  in  slices,  dip  into  flour  and  fry  a  light  brown 
with  butter  and  lard  enough  to  prevent  sticking. 

Baked  Tomatoes. — Cut  in  slices  good  fresh  tomatoes  (not 
too  ripe).  Put  a  layer  of  them  in  a  dish  suitable  for  baking,  then 
a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Bake 
one  hour.  A  little  grated  onion  can  be  added  if  liked. — Mrs. 
Sydney  Strong. 


VEGETABLES  59 

Browned  Tomatoes. — Take  large  round  tomatoes  and  halve 
them,  place  them  the  skin  side  down  in  a  frying  pan  in  which  a 
very  small  quantity  of  butter  and  lard  have  been  previously  melted. 
Sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dredge  well  with  flour. 
Place  the  pan  on  a  hot  part  of  the  fire  and  let  them  brown  thor- 
oughly ;  then  stir  and  let  them  brown  again,  and  so  on  until  they 
are  quite  done.  They  lose  their  acidity  and  their  flavor  is  su- 
perior to  stewed  tomatoes. 

Baked  Tomatoes. — Fill  a  deep  pan  (as  many  as  will  cover 
the  bottom)  with  ripe  tomatoes.  Round  out  a  hole  in  the  center 
of  each,  fill  up  with  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  butter  and  salt.  Put 
a  teacup  of  water  in  the  pan  and  bake  until  brown.  Send  to  the 
table  hot. — Mrs.  W.  Scott  Bonnell. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. — One  dozen  round,  smooth  tomatoes, 
one  pint  of  boiled  rice,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  pint  of  chopped  pecan  nuts.  Cut  a 
slice  off  of  the  stem  end  and  with  the  fingers  press  out  the  seeds. 
Stuff  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture,  heaping  in  the  center.  In 
pan  put  slice  of  onion,  the  centers  taken  out  of  the  tomatoes,  salt, 
spoonful  of  celery  seed  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Add 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  water  (to  make 
smooth)  to  sauce  in  pan.  Thicken,  press  through  the  colander, 
pour  over  the  tomatoes  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty  minutes, 
basting  often  with  melted  butter. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Wick. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. — Take  ten  smooth,  round,  medium  sized 
tomatoes,  wash  them  and  cut  from  the  smooth  end  of  each  a  thin 
slice.  With  a  spoon  remove  as  much  of  the  inside  or  pulp  of  the 
tomato  as  possible,  being  careful  not  to  break  through  the  skin. 
Arrange  each  one  in  baking  pan,  sprinkle  inside  of  each  with 
salt,  pepper  and  small  bits  of  butter.  Put  the  pulp  of  the  inside 
of  the  tomato  into  a  chopping  bowl  with  one  small  onion,  a  tea- 
cupful  of  bits  of  cold  chicken,  veal  or  lamb  chopped  fine.  Season 
high  with  salt,  paprika  and  a  little  butter.  Fill  the  tomatoes  each 
full  with  this  dressing,  first  draining  off  the  juice.  Have  some  fine 
bread  crumbs  highly  seasoned,  place  a  teaspoonful  of  the  crumbs 
on  each  tomato  with  a  bit  of  butter.  Pour  the  remainder  of  the 
dressing  in  the  baking  pan.  Bake  in  oven  from  one-half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Remove  carefully  to  hot  platter  with  griddle 
cake  turner  and  pour  around  the  dressing. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 


60  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Stewed  Tomatoes  Served  With  Green  Peppers. — Put  to 
soak  in  strong  salt  and  water,  green  peppers  with  small  end  pre- 
viously cut  off  and  seeds  removed  from  the  inside.  Let  soak 
over  night  or  from  ten  to  twelve  hours.  Wash  tomatoes,  pare, 
slice  and  put  over  to  stew.  When  cooked  perfectly  soft,  strain 
through  a  sieve,  season  with  salt  and  butter  to  taste,  drain  the 
peppers,  place  on  a  platter  and  fill  them  with  the  stewed  tomatoes ; 
but  not  until  the  time  of  serving. 

Broiled  Tomatoes. — Select  large  fine  tomatoes  and  do  not 
peel.  Slice  half  an  inch  thick  and  broil  in  a  wire  gridiron  over  a 
clear  hot  fire.  Have  ready  in  a  cup  some  hot  butter  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard.  As  soon 
as  the  tomatoes  are  done,  dip  each  piece  in  this  mixture  and  lay 
upon  a  hot  platter.  When  all  are  dished,  heat  what  remains  of 
the  seasoning  to  a  boil,  pour  over  them  and  serve  at  once. 

Tomatoes  a  la  Creme. — Pare  and  slice  ripe  tomatoes  and  to 
one  quart  of  fresh  ones  or  a  pound  can,  stew  until  perfectly 
smooth,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire,  stir  in  one 
cup  of  cream  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  stirred  smooth  in  a 
part  of  it.  Do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  flour  is  put  in.  Have  ready 
in  a  dish  pieces  of  toast,  pour  tomatoes  over  this  and  serve. — Miss 
Laura  Wick. 

Fried  Tomatoes. — Scald  and  peel  three  large  tomatoes.  Slice 
in  thick  slices,  dip  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  butter,  repeating 
with  sufficient  butter  each  time  to  brown  them.  Make  a  cream 
sauce  and  pour  over  them. — Miss  Isahclle  McCnrdy. 

Brussels  Sprouts. — Remove  the  outside  leaves,  let  stand  in 
salt  and  water  for  one  hour.  Boil  in  boiling  salt  water  about 
half  an  hour  putting  in  a  pinch  of  soda  to  keep  green.  Drain 
well,  place  where  they  will  keep  warm.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  the  sprouts  and 
serve. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms,  Jr. 

Cauliflower. — Soak  in  salt  and  water  one-half  hour.  Then 
boil  in  water  with  a  little  salt  about  one-half  hour  or  until  tender. 
When  done,  drain  and  pour  over  a  dressing  made  of  cream 
slightly  thickened  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 


VEGETABLES  6 I 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin. — Soak  cauliflower  (the  flower  side 
down)  in  salt  and  water  one  hour,  which  will  draw  out  any  worms 
or  dirt.  Then  boil  until  tender  in  slightly  salted  water.  Place 
in  a  baking  dish,  partly  cover  with  rich  cream  dressing  and  sift 
over  the  top  fine  bread  crumbs  and  a  generous  allowance  of  grated 
cheese.     Place  in  the  oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 

Boiled  Cabbage  With  Corn  Beef.— Cabbage  is  best  boiled 
with  corn  beef.  Break  each  leaf  apart  and  wash  separately.  Put 
in  with  the  beef  about  three-fourths  of  an  hour  before  serving. 
Let  it  boil  until  tender,  drain  well,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter  and  serve  with  the  corn  beef. 

Fried  Cabbage. — Chop  a  head  of  cabbage  quite  fine.  Have  a 
skillet  on  the  stove,  take  a  large  iron  spoonful  of  butter  or  fryings, 
put  in  the  skillet  and  let  get  hot.  Then  put  in  the  chopped  cabbage 
and  cover  it  with  a  lid  and  let  cook  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Then 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  let  it  cook  without  a  lid  until 
dry,  stirring  it  quite  often  to  prevent  burning. — Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 

Hot  Slaw. — Slice  cabbage  on  a  slaw  cutter,  put  into  a  spider 
with  a  little  water,  cover  and  let  steam  for  a  short  time.  Drain, 
then  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  one-half  cup  of 
cream.  When  the  cream  boils,  add  one-half  cup  of  vinegar  (pre- 
viously boiled)  and  serve.  Another  way  is  after  steaming  the 
cabbage,  stir  into  it  two  well  beaten  eggs  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
mustard  stirred  smooth  into  the  egg.  Season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter. 

A  Hot  Dish  of  Cabbage.— Wash  carefully  a  nice  firm  and 
very  fresh  cabbage  and  remove  the  outer  leaves  and  any  thick 
stems.  Now  sHce  it  thinly  across,  rinse  these  slices  well  in  salt 
water,  dry  them  thoroughly  in  a  clean  cloth  and  fry  in  butter  for 
five  minutes  stirring  constantly.  Then  pour  over  them  two  spoon- 
fuls of  vinegar,  a  good  half-pint  of  stock  with  seasoning  to  taste 
and  let  them  stew  steadily  in  a  covered  pan  until  the  cabbage  is 
done  and  tender.    Then  drain  well  and  serve  piled  on  a  hot  dish. 

Salsify  or  Vegetable  Oysters.— Wash  and  scrape  them 
thoroughly,  and  as  you  wash  tliem  throw'  them  into  a  bowl  of  cold 
water.  Cut  into  pieces  about  half  an  inch  long;  boil  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  When  tender,  pour  olT  all  the  water,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  enough  cream  to 


62 


THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 


almost  cover  them.  If  no  cream,  use  milk  with  more  butter  and 
thicken  like  gravy  with  a  little  flour.  They  are  nice  served  on 
toast.— Mr  J.  M.  Adelia  Wick. 

Mushrooms  Broiled. — Gather  them  fresh,  pare  and  cut  off 
the  stems,  dip  them  in  melted  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  broil  on  both  sides  over  a  clear  fire.     Serve  on  toast. 

Creamed  Mushrooms. — To  one  pound  of  mushrooms  take 
butter  half  the  size  of  an  Qgg.  Put  the  butter  in  the  skillet  and 
when  hot  put  in  the  mushrooms.  Cover  and  let  steam,  taking 
care  that  they  do  not  get  very  hot  or  it  will  toughen  them.  Steam 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  pour  in  one  cup  of  best  cream  and 
let  simmer  for  ten  minutes  without  the  cover  or  until  the  cream 
has  become  quite  thick.  Have  a  hot  platter  with  rounds  of  thinly 
sliced  bread  toast.  Arrange  the  mushrooms  on  the  toast  and  pour 
a  little  of  the  cream  gravy  over  each  slice  of  toast.  Then  take 
red  Spanish  peppers,  have  them  where  they  will  get  warm  (not 
hot,  or  they  will  shrivel  up),  cut  in  strips  or  nice  shaped  pieces  and 
lay  a  piece  on  top  of  each  slice  of  toast  and  mushrooms.  Put  a 
fringe  of  parsley  around  the  dish  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 

To  Cook  Canned  Mushrooms. — Pour  off  the  liquid,  pour 
over  them  a  little  cream,  season  and  let  them  simmer  for  a  short 
time.     Nice  served  on  broiled  steak. 

Mushrooms  and  Tomatoes. — Butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg, 
one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  browned  in  the  butter,  one  can 
of  mushrooms  cut  in  pieces,  or  one  pint  of  fresh  mushrooms,  one 
can  of  tomatoes  without  the  juice,  one-half  cup  of  olives  chopped, 
six  eggs  beaten  slightly,  then  stirred  in  until  just  cooked.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Sampson. 

Fried  Egg  Plant. — Pare  and  slice  them  thin.  Then  sprinkle 
each  with  salt  and  let  them  stand  for  about  one  hour  piled  up  with 
a  w^eight  on  them.  Then  dip  each  piece  into  egg  well  beaten,  then 
into  flower  and  fry  a  light  brown  in  lard  and  butter. — Mrs.  R.  Mc- 
Millan. 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant. — Cut  an  &gg  plant  in  half,  scoop  out  the 
pulp  to  one-half  inch  wall ;  chop  the  pulp,  one  small  onion  and  a 
little  green  pepper  fine.  Saute  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
ten  minutes  without  browning.  Add  an  equal  amount  of  bread 
crumbs,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  enough  strained  tomato  pulfx 


VEGETABLES  63 

to  moisten  the  mixture.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  turn  into 
shells,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs  stirred  into  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour. — Mrs.  W.  J. 
Sampson. 

Summer  Squash. — Pare  and  cut  into  pieces  about  an  inch 
square.  Let  boil  or  stew  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  drain  and  mash 
well.    Put  in  a  little  butter ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Hubbard  Squash. — Cut  into  squares  and  bake  in  the  shell 
as  you  would  sweet  potatoes,  or  pare,  stew  and  dress  like  summer 
squash. 

Macaroni  With  Tomatoes. — Boil  one-half  pound  of  maca- 
roni till  tender.  Pour  off  all  the  water,  then  add  one-half  cup  of 
sweet  cream,  one-third  of  a  cup  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Let 
simmer  for  a  short  time  but  be  careful  that  it  does  not  become 
much  broken.  Turn  into  a  vegetable  dish.  Have  ready  one  pint 
of  stewed  tomatoes  seasoned  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and 
pour  over  the  macaroni. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 

Macaroni  and  Tomato  Lscalloped. — Cook  one-half  pound 
of  macaroni  in  salt  water  until  tender ;  drain  and  rinse  with  cold 
water.  To  one  quart  can  of  tomatoes  add  a  round  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  few  grains  of  red  pepper 
to  make  it  quite  hot.  Put  the  macaroni  in  a  buttered  baking  dish 
and  strain  the  tomatoes  over  it  pressing  all  through  but  the  seeds. 
Grate  some  cheese  over  the  top  and  a  little  inside,  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  heat  and  brown. — Mrs.  Ida  Canfidd. 

Macaroni. — Take  about  two  dozen  sticks  or  macaroni,  put 
into  two  quarts  of  boiling  salt  water  and  let  boil  until  very  tender. 
Will  take  about  forty-five  minutes.  When  tender  pour  into  a 
coolander  and  let  cold  water  run  through  it  for  a  minute.  Have 
one  pint  of  good  beef  or  chicken  stock  hot  in  a  skillet  on  the 
stove ;  put  the  macaroni  in  and  let  simmer  for  one-half  hour  very 
slowly  with  a  lid  on.  Then  take  a  baking  dish  and  put  a  little 
macaroni  in,  then  sprinkle  a  little  grated  cheese,  then  more  maca- 
roni, then  more  cheese,  and  so  on  until  you  have  put  it  all  in.  Then 
pour  the  stock  over.  Sprinkle  a  little  cheese  over  the  top,  set  in 
a  slow  oven  and  let  brown. — Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 

Mac.\roni  or  Spaghetti  au  Gratin. — Break  into  pieces 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  long,  macaroni  or  spaghetti;  wash  and 


64  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

put  on  the  stove  in  a  stew  pan  covered  with  salt  water.  Boil  until 
tender  keeping  covered  with  water  (spaghetti  requires  a  little 
longer  boiling  than  macaroni).  Then  drain  ofif  the  water,  add 
almost  a  cup  of  grated  cheese,  cover  with  cream  and  when  the 
cream  scalds,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  a  piece  of  butter 
almost  the  size  of  an  egg  and  let  all  cook  until  it  thickens.  Then 
turn  into  a  baking  dish,  cover  the  top  with  grated  cheese  and 
brown  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Macaroni  Croquettes. — Let  a  cup  of  macaroni  (broken 
fine)  boil  in  rapidly  boiling  salt  water  until  tender.  Drain  and 
rinse  in  cold  water.  Make  a  sauce  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  three  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
paprika  and  a  cup  of  milk,  cream,  soup  stock  or  tomato  puree. 
Add  the  macaroni  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  let  cool.  Dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry 
in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  P.  B.  Ozven. 

Artichokes. — First  soak  the  artichokes  in  strong  salt  and 
water  for  some  time  and  afterwards  rinse  them  in  several  waters 
in  order  to  expel  the  insects.  Cut  the  stocks  even  and  trim  away 
the  longer  leaves.  Boil  them  in  plenty  of  boiling  salt  water  with 
the  tops  downward  and  let  them  remain  until  the  leaves  can  easily 
be  drawn  out.  Serve  hot  with  Hollandaise  sauce.  The  leaves 
should  be  pulled  out  with  the  fingers  and  dipped  into  the  sauce, 
the  tender  end  of  the  leaf  only  being  good.  Time  to  cook,  if  young, 
about  one-half  hour.    Allow  one  artichoke  for  each  person  to  serve. 

Stuffed  Peppers. — Twelve  sweet  peppers,  five  slices  of  bread 
spread  with  butter,  using  one  pint  of  bread,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley 
and  one  pint  of  chopped  peanuts,  one  slice  of  onion  in  baking  pan 
with  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. — Mrs.  Rorcr  at  St. 
Louis  Exposition. 

Stuffed  Peppers. — Sweet  peppers  are  best  for  stuffing  and 
are  prepared  by  cutting  ofif  the  cap  or  cover  at  the  stem  end,  remove 
the  seeds  and  then  plunge  them  into  boiling  water  for  one  moment. 
Fill  them  with  a  nice  sausage  meat,  rub  each  pepper  with  a  little 
melted  butter,  set  them  in  a  dripping  pan  and  let  them  roast  for- 
thirty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 


VEGETABLES  65 

Stuffed  Cucumbers. — Peel  large  cucumbers.  Then  cut  in 
half  lengthwise  and  take  out  the  seeds.  Fill  with  a  force  meat 
made  of  equal  parts  of  bread  crumbs  and  finely  chopped  meat,  a 
little  onion,  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Line  a  sauce 
pan  with  thin  strips  of  salt  pork  and  cold  veal  and  a  few  slices  of 
onions  and  carrots.  Pour  over  a  little  stock  and  bake  until  tender. 
— Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 

Fried  Apples. — Take  ^arge,  sour,  juicy  apples,  wash  them 
and  remove  the  core  but  do  not  pare.  Slice  the  apples  into  slices 
about  one-half  inch  thick,  sprinkle  well  with  granulated  sugar 
and  fry  in  hot  butter  until  a  rich  brown.  Nice  to  serve  with 
roast  pork. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Fried  Apples. — Take  nice  cooking  apples,  wash  them  clean 
and  slice  in  thin  slices.  Have  butter  boiling  hot  in  the  spider. 
Put  in  the  apples,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  fry  until  a  nice  brown, 
stirring  them  occasionally  to  prevent  burning.  Serve  with  meats. 
— Mrs.  M.  I.  Anns. 


SALADS 


REMARKS. 

Everything  to  be  used  in  salads  should  be  of  the  freshest, 
and  all  salads  served  very  cold.  Lettuce  or  cress,  young,  crisp 
and  dry.  Oil — wliich  forms  the  chief  part  of  salad — should  be 
perfectly  fresh  and,  like  perfectly  pure  butter,  is  almost,  if  not 
absolutely,  tasteless.     Do  not  dress  salad  until  it  is  wanted. 

There  is  an  admirable  Spanish  proverb  about  dressing  salads, 
which  says,  "It  requires  three  persons  to  mix  a  salad — a  spend- 
thrift to  turn  in  the  oil,  a  miser  to  pour  in  the  vinegar  and  a 
madman  to  stir  it  together." 

Chicken  Salad. — To  two  large  boiled  fowls  (cold),  take 
two  large  heads  of  celery  or  four  small  ones.  Having  removed 
all  the  skin  and  fat,  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  into  very  small 
pieces.  It  is  best  not  to  mix  the  dressing  with  the  salad  until 
just  before  it  is  to  be  eaten.  Put  into  a  porcelain  kettle  the  gravy 
from  the  chicken,  one-half  pint  of  vinegar,  one-half  pint  of  sweet 
oil  or  melted  butter,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  Coleman's  mus- 
tard, one  small  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  beaten  and  stirred  in  just  before 
taken  ofif,  one  teacupful  of  cream  stirred  into  the  dressing  when 
cold.  Mix  together  with  a  silver  fork  and  garnish  with  celery 
tops. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Chicken  Salad. — Two  large  chickens  boiled  until  tender 
(cold),  two  large  heads  of  celery  or  three  small  ones.  Cut  the 
celery  and  chicken  into  small  pieces  but  do  not  chop  them.  In 
cooking  the  chicken  let  the  water  boil  away  until  there  is  not 
more  than  a  teacupful.  Save  this  and  the  fat  that  is  with  it  and 
put  in  the  dressing.  Put  this  on  the  stove  with  half  a  pint  of 
strong  vinegar,  one  gill  of  mixed  mustard,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  white  pepper,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  a  very  little  cayenne 
pepper  (not  more  than  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful).  When  hot, 
stir  in  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  well  beaten.    When  thick,  take  from 


SALADS  67 

the  fire  and  when  cold  add  one-half  pint  of  thick  cream  and  one- 
half  pint  of  olive  oil.  If  the  chickens  are  very  fat,  less  oil  will 
answer.  Some  prefer  half  butter.  When  cold,  mix  with  the 
celery  and  chicken. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 

Chicken  Salad. — Two  large  boiled  fowls  (cold),  two  large 
heads  of  celery  or  four  small  ones.  The  dressing  is  the  yolks  of 
six  hard  boiled  eggs  mashed,  one-half  pint  of  sweet  oil  or  butter, 
one-half  pint  of  vinegar,  one  gill  of  mixed  mustard,  one  small 
teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
two  raw  eggs  well  beaten  and  one-half  cup  of  cream. — Mrs.  H 
B.  Wick. 

Chicken  Salad. — Take  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  lay  them  in 
water  until  quite  cold.  Put  the  yolks  into  a  small  bowl  and  mash 
them  very  fine  adding  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  dry  mustard  and  a  very  little 
cayenne  pepper.  Stir  this  well,  always  one  way.  When  well 
mixed,  add  a  very  little  sweet  oil,  stirring  all  the  time.  After 
this  is  mixed,  put  in  more,  a  very  little  at  a  time,  until  you  have 
used  a  third  of  a  bottle.  Then  add  a  large  spoonful  of  vmegar 
or  lemon  juice,  then  more  oil  as  before,  using  in  all  two-thirds  of 
a  bottle.  Then  another  spoonful  of  vinegar.  When  well  mixed 
it  must  be  very  light  and  a  nice  color.  Set  on  the  ice  for  two 
or  three  hours.  Not  more  than  twenty  minutes  before  using  the 
salad,  mix  it  and  prepare  for  the  table  by  putting  with  the  meat 
about  half  the  dressing.  Stir  it  up  well  and  then  pour  onto  the 
meat  one  wine-glass  of  best  vinegar.  Stir  this  up  well.  It  will 
turn  the  chicken  very  white.  If  it  requires  a  little  more  salt  add 
it  now.  Place  the  chicken  in  the  center  of  a  flat  dish  large  enough 
to  lay  lettuce  or  celery  around  the  meat.  Wipe  the  lettuce  as 
dry  as  you  can,  lay  around  the  meat,  then  with  a  spoon  put  the 
rest  of  the  dressing  on  the  lettuce. — Mrs.  Wm.  J.  Hitchcock. 

Sweet  Bread  Salad. — Boil  the  sweet  breads  twenty  minutes. 
Then  drop  them  into  cold  milk,  split  them  and  fry  brown  in  butter. 
Break  in  small  pieces  with  lettuce  and  mix  with  the  dressing. 
Make  a  dressing  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard,  the  least  bit  of 
sugar,  one  bottle  of  olive  oil  poured  into  this  with  a  thread  sized 
stream,  stirring  all  the  time.  The  dressing  for  salmon  salad  is 
also  nice  for  this. — Mrs.  W.  Scott  Bonnell. 


68  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Sweet  Bread  Salad. — Soak  sweet  breads  in  salt  and  water 
for  one  hour.  Rinse  in  fresh  water  and  boil  one-half  hour  in  salt 
and  water.  Then  drop  in  cold  milk  and  whiten.  When  thoroughly- 
cold,  cut  into  dice.  Take  fresh,  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  wipe 
dry.  Shred  about  one-half  the  quantity  of  lettuce  that  you  have 
of  sweet  breads,  cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  on 
crisp  lettuce  leaves  very  cold. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Booth. 

Lobster  Salad. — To  a  three-pound  lobster  take  the  yolk  of 
one  egg.  Beat  very  lightly.  Then  take  the  yolks  of  three  hard 
boiled  eggs  (cold)  and  add  to  the  raw  yolk,  beating  all  the  time. 
Add  gradually — a  few  drops  at  a  time — one-half  bottle  of  the 
finest  olive  oil  still  stirring  all  the  time.  Then  add  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoonfuls  of  the  best  English  mustard,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Beat  the  mixture  until  light,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
strong  vinegar.  Cut  the  lobster  into  small  pieces  and  mix  with 
it  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  it  the  dressing  just  before  sending  to 
the  table.  Garnish  with  the  white  of  egg  (boiled),  celery  tops 
and  the  small  claws. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Hitchcoock. 

Salmon  Salad. — For  a  pound  can  of  California  salmon. 
Garnish  with  lettuce.  Make  a  dressing  of  one  small  teacupful 
of  vinegar,  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of 
Coleman's  mustard,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  two  eggs. 
When  cold,  add  one-half  teacupful  of  cream  and  pour  over  the 
salmon. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Shrimp  Salad. — Boil  fresh  shrimps  in  water  slightly  salted. 
When  cold,  remove  the  shells  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
mayonnaise  dressing. 

Lettuce  Salad. — Select  fine,  crisp  leaves  of  the  head  let- 
tuce, wash  thoroughly  and  drain.  Serve  with  French  or  mayon- 
naise dressing.  Lettuce  leaves  are  nice  sprinkled  well  with  finely 
grated  cheese  and  served  with  French  dressing. 

Potato  Salad. — Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  to  one  quart 
of  sliced  potatoes,  one  small  grated  onion  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  finely  chopped  parsley.  Mix  all  together  with  mayonnaise  or 
French  dressing.  Garnish  dish  with  nasturtium  leaves  and 
blossoms.    Serve  very  cold. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Sampson. 


SALADS  69 

Potato  Salad. — Cut  a  dozen  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  fancy 
shapes  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Mix  with  some  flakes  of 
cold  boiled  fish  (halibut,  cod  or  salmon)  and  pour  over  them  a 
salad  dressing  made  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  or 
salad  oil,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  half  that  quantity  of  pepper  and  one  teaspoonful  of  ground 
mustard.  Into  this  mix  one  cupful  of  vinegar.  Boil  well,  then 
add  three  raw  eggs  beaten  to  a  foam.  Remove  directly  from  the 
fire  and  stir  for  five  minutes.  When  thoroughly  cold,  turn  over 
the  salad.  Garnish  with  slices  of  pickled  cucumber,  beet,  hard 
boiled  egg  and  fresh  parsley. 

Celery  Salad. — Wash  the  white  part  of  celery,  drain  and 
dry  with  a  towel.  Cut  into  pieces  about  one  inch  long  and  just 
before  serving,  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Cheese  Salad. — One  pint  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of 
gelatine,  one  cup  of  grated  cheese.  Whip  the  cream  after  it  has 
been  measured,  then  add  cheese  and  lastly  the  gelatine  after  it 
has  been  dissolved  in  water.  Serve  in  individual  molds.  Use 
hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  two  (the  round  way).  Cherries,  or  any- 
thing to  carry  out  color  scheme  one  may  desire,  putting  colors  in 
the  bottom  of  the  mold.  Turn  out  on  lettuce  and  serve  with 
mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  R.  D.  Gibson. 

Cream  Cheese  Salad. — Take  two  Philadelphia  cream  cheese. 
Mash  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Mix  well  with  two  dozen 
finely  chopped  pimolas  and  one-half  teacup  of  finely  chopped 
blanched  almonds.  Mold,  slice  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves 
with  French  dressing. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Egg  Salad. — Hard  boiled  eggs  twelve,  cream  one-half  pint, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  parsley  chopped  fine,  flour  one- 
half  tablespoonful.  Take  cream,  butter,  parsley  and  flour ;  mix  and 
then  cook  until  thick.  Slice  eggs  and  after  each  layer  of  eggs 
add  one  of  bread  crumbs,  over  which  pour  cream  to  cover.  When 
the  dish  is  full,  bake  until  brown  and  garnish  with  parsley. — 
Mrs.  J.  C.  Crew. 

Vegetable  Salad. — Take  equal  quantities  of  the  white  part 
of  celery,  string  beans,  carrots,  onions,  turnips  and  tomatoes. 
Cook  until  tender  in  salt  and  water.  The  string  beans,  carrot  and 
turnip  cut  into  small  pieces.  Set  on  the  ice  until  thoroughly 
chilled  and  serve  with  either  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 


70  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Cauliflower  Salad. — Boil  a  cauliflower  in  boiling,  well 
salted  water.  When  cold,  cover  with  French  dressing  highly 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  onion  juice.  Let  stand  on  ice, 
basting  frequently  with  the  dressing.  Serve  whole  in  a  nest  of 
lettuce  leaves ;  pour  dressing  over  it. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms,  Jr. 

Orange  or  Grape  Fruit  Salad. — Pare  the  fruit  and  cut 
into  quarters  with  a  sharp  knife,  removing  all  the  thin,  white  skin 
and  saving  all  the  juice.  Pour  over  the  fruit  a  French  dressing 
to  which  the  juice  has  been  added  and  let  stand  until  thoroughly 
chilled.  Serve  in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves  or  leaves  of  romaine. — 
Mrs.  C.  F.  Hofer. 

Ham  Salad. — Soak  half  a  tablespoonful  of  granulated  gela- 
tine in  one  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  cold  water,  then  dissolve 
in  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  hot  chicken  liquor.  Strain  over  one 
cup  of  cooked  ham  chopped  fine  and  stir  standing  in  ice  water 
until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Fold  in  one  cup  of  thick 
cream  beaten  stiff.  Add  also  a  few  grains  of  paprika  and  salt,  if 
needed.  Mold  in  a  ring  mould.  At  serving  time  turn  from  the 
mould,  fill  in  the  center  with  lettuce  leaves.  Serve  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonnell. 

Asparagus  Salad. — Drain  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  asparagus. 
Put  in  a  deep  dish,  cover  with  French  dressing  highly  seasoned, 
to  which  has  been  added  a  small  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion.  Set 
on  ice  for  three  or  four  hours,  dipping  the  dressing  occasionally 
over  the  asparagus.  Serve  on  leaves  of  crisp  lettuce. — Mrs.  C. 
H.  Booth. 

Lorraine  Salad. — Place  in  the  center  of  a  dish  sliced  to- 
matoes, sliced  cucumbers,  shredded  sweet  red  peppers  and  a  very 
little  onion.  Take  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  mash  thoroughly  with 
a  fork  and  mix  well  with  French  dressing.  Pour  this  over  the 
salad.  Place  a  row  of  water  cress  around  the  salad  and  on  the 
outer  edge  of  dish  the  inside  leaves  of  head  of  lettuce.  Serve 
very  cold. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Pineapple  Salad. — Peel  and  cut  into  dice  enough  pine- 
apple to  make  a  pint  and  bury  in  ice  for  an  hour.  Lay  crisp  let- 
tuce leaves  on  a  chilled  platter,  put  a  spoonful  of  pineapple  dice 
on  each  leaf  and  serve  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing  into  which  has 
been  stirred  one  part  of  whipped  cream  to  three  parts  of  dressing. 
Garnish  with  halved  walnuts. — Mrs.  IV.  J.  Sampson. 


SALADS  71 

Tomato  and  Romaine  Salad. — Select  the  center  crisp  leaves 
of  romaine.  Take  firm,  round,  ripe  tomatoes  quartered  and  place 
on  the  romaine.  Then  add  a  liberal  amount  of  chives  chopped 
fine.     Serve  cold  with  French  dressing. 

Cherry  Salad. — Remove  the  stones  from  ripe,  Morilla  cher- 
ries. Replace  the  pits  with  blanched  hazel-nuts.  Make  cups  of 
small  head  lettuce  leaves  and  fill  these  with  the  cherries  covered 
with  French  dressing. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick,  Elyria. 

Artichoke  Salad. — Use  the  artichoke  hearts — which  can  be 
purchased  in  bottles.  Let  them  stand  in  French  dressing  from 
six  to  eight  hours  until  thoroughly  seasoned.  Then  serve  on 
crisp  lettuce  leaves  with  fresh  French  dressing  poured  over. — Mrs. 
H.  B.  Wick,  Elyria. 

Fruit  Salad. — Pears,  peaches,  pineapples,  cantaloupe,  cher- 
ries, oranges,  grapefruit  and  bananas  are  fruits  to  be  used  in  this 
salad,  and  use  sparingly  of  the  latter.  Cut  the  fruit  into  small 
balls,  cubes  or  any  fancy  shapes  with  vegetable  cutter.  Prepare  a 
mayonnaise  dressing  of  two-thirds  mayonnaise  and  one-third 
whipped  cream  mixed.  When  the  fruit  and  dressing  are  very 
cold,  mix  carefully  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  English  wal- 
nuts cut  into  small  pieces  can  be  added,  if  liked,  before  mixing 
the  salad. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Tomato  Aspic. — One  can  of  tomatoes,  one  pint  of  stock, 
three-fourths  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  one-half  medium  sized  onion, 
three  or  four  stocks  of  celery,  one  bay  leaf,  salt  and  paprika.  Put 
gelatine  to  soak  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it.  Put  on  tomatoes 
with  onion,  celery,  bay  leaf,  salt  and  paprika  and  let  cook  slowlv 
for  half  an  hour.  Strain  through  a  puree  sieve  and  add  to  the 
stock.  Heat  together  again  and  add  the  gelatine,  which  has  been 
dissolved  by  some  of  the  hot  liquid.  Pour  into  individual  molds, 
or  one  large  one,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Use  plenty  of  salt  and  paprika  as  tomatoes  are  not  good 
without  high  seasoning. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Booth. 

Cucumber  Aspic. — Take  one  pint  of  cucumber  juice;  reduce 
to  one-half  pint  by  boiling.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon 
juice,  one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  season  high  with  white 
pepper  and  salt.  Take  a  little  of  the  cucumber  pieces  and  dis- 
solve one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  and  pour  the  hot  mixture  over 


72  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

it.  Use  a  little  drop  of  liquid  green  coloring  water  to  make  it 
green.  Pour  into  individual  molds  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 

String  Bean  Salad. — String  and  wash  the  beans.  Then 
boil  in  well  salted  water  until  tender.  When  cold,  marinate  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  three  of  oil.  Highly  season 
with  salt  and  paprika.  Let  stand  for  one  hour.  Serve  on  lettuce 
with  French  dressing. 

To  Serve  Cucumbers. — Cucumbers  are  never  nice  when 
stale  and  medium  sized  ones  with  the  skin  green  are  best.  If  soft 
to  press,  they  are  wilted  and  not  fit  for  use.  To  dress  cucumbers  : 
First  peel,  then  cut  into  very  thin  slices,  let  stand  in  ice  water  for 
half  an  hour,  which  will  make  them  crisp.  Drain  and  serve  with 
French  dressing  to  which  has  been  added  a  little  grated  onion. — 
Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 

Lettuce  Salad. — Two  heads  of  lettuce,  two  hard  boiled  eggs, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard, 
one  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Rub 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  powder,  add  sugar,  butter,  pepper,  salt 
and  mustard  and  let  it  stand  five  minutes.  Then  beat  in  the 
vinegar.  Cut  the  lettuce  with  a  knife  and  fork.  Put  into  a  bowl 
and  mix  in  the  dressing  by  tossing  with  a  fork. — Miss  Maria 
Wells. 

Cabbage  Salad. — Six  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls of  mixed  mustard,  beat  three  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Cook  until  like  a  custard.  When  cold,  pour  over  the  cabbage 
chopped  fine. — Mrs.  Wm.  Lawthers. 

Cabbage  Salad. — Cut  the  cabbage  very  fine  and  put  into  a 
dish  in  layers  with  salt  and  pepper  between.  Then  take  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  two  of  flour,  two  of  mustard, 
one  cup  of  vinegar  and  one  tgg.  Stir  all  together  and  let  it  come 
to  a  boil  on  the  stove.  Pour  it  hot  over  and  mix  well  with  the 
cabbage.  Cover  up.  This  will  keep  well  a  week  or  until  used  up. 
— Mrs.  Wm.  Edwards. 

Cold  Slaw. — Choose  a  good  solid  head  of  cabbage  and  cut 
a  part  of  it  fine  with  a  slaw  cutter.  Pour  over  this,  just  before 
serving,  a  dressing  made  in  the  same  manner  as  for  salmon 
salad. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 


SALADS  73 

Cold  Slaw. — Half  a  head  of  cabbage  chopped  fine.  Bring 
half  a  cup  of  vinegar  to  a  boil,  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and 
one-half  cup  of  butter  together  and  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard. 
Add  them  to  the  vinegar  and  let  it  thicken  on  the  stove.  Pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  When  cold,  add  one  cup  of  cream  or  milk.  Mix 
thoroughly  with  the  cabbage  just  before  putting  on  the  table. 
— Miss  Maria  Wells. 

Cabbage  Slaw. — One-half  pint  of  sweet  cream,  two  eggs, 
butter  to  taste,  a  little  vinegar.  Slice  cabbage  very  fine,  pepper 
and  salt.  Bring  the  dressing  to  a  scald  and  pour  over  it.  Stir  well 
and  bring  to  the  table. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Matthews. 


Sauces  and  Relishes  for  Meats 


Melted  or  Drawn  Butter. — Cut  two  large  spoonfuls  of 
butter  into  small  pieces  and  put  it  into  a  sauce  pan  with  a  large 
spoonful  of  fiour  and  ten  of  new  milk.  When  thoroughly  mixed, 
add  six  large  spoonfuls  of  water.  Shake  it  over  the  fire  until  it 
begins  to  simmer,  shaking  it  always  the  same  way.  Then  let  it 
stand  quietly  and  boil  up.  It  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  rich 
cream  and  not  thicker. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Gregory. 

Parsley  Sauce. — Wash  a  bunch  of  parsley  in  cold  water. 
Then  boil  it  about  six  or  seven  minutes  in  salt  and  water.  Drain 
it.  Cut  the  leaves  from  the  stocks  and  chop  them  fine.  Have 
ready  some  melted  butter  and  stir  in  the  parsley.  Allow  two 
small  tablespoonfuls  of  leaves  to  one-half  pint  of  butter.  Serve 
with  boiled  fowls  and  fish. 

Fish  Sauce. — One-quarter  pound  butter,  one  and  one-half 
tablespoonfuls  of  parsley  (chopped  fine),  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  juice  of  two  lemons.  Cream  the  butter 
well,  beat  in  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice.  Add  parsley  and 
serve. — Mrs.   IVm.  J.  Hitchcock. 

Tomato  Sauce. — Stew  one-half  dozen  tomatoes  with  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Strain  and  when  it 
commences  to  boil,  add  a  spoonful  of  flour  stirred  smooth  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  When  it  all  boils,  take  up. — Mrs.  G. 
W.  Haney. 

Tomato  Sauce. — Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  slowly  one  cup  of  strained  tomato,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper  and  one  clove. — Mrs.  IV.  D. 
Euwer. 

Mint  Sauce. — Chop  three  tablespoonfuls  of  green  mint  and 
add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  half  a  cofifeecupful  of 
vinegar.  Stir  while  heating  and  serve  when  cold  with  roast  lamb. 
— Mrs.  John  McCurdy. 


SAUCES  AND  RELISHES  FOR  MEATS  75 

Mint  Sauce. — Wash  the  mint  very  clean,  pick  the  leaves 
from  the  stalk  and  chop  them  fine.  Pour  onto  them  vinegar 
enough  to  moisten  the  mint  well.  Add  fine  sugar  to  sweaten. — 
Mrs.  Wm.  Bonnell. 

Egg  Sauce. — Three  ounces  of  butter  beaten  with  one  ounce 
of  flour.  Stir  into  it  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  salt  and  pepper. 
Cook  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  into  a  sauce  boat  having  hard  boiled 
eggs  sliced  or  chopped  in  it. — Mrs.  Wm.  J.  Hitchcock. 

Oyster  Sauce. — One  pint  of  oysters  cut  small.  Boil  for  five 
minutes  in  their  own  liquor,  a  cup  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  rubbed  smooth  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Let  it  boil. 

Celery  Sauce. — Pick  and  wash  two  heads  of  celery,  cut 
them  into  pieces  one  inch  long  and  stew  them  in  a  pint  of  water 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  until  the  celery  is  tender.  Rub  a 
large  spoonful  of  butter  and  a  spoonful  of  flour  well  together. 
Stir  this  into  a  pint  of  cream,  put  in  the  celery  and  let  it  boil  up 
once.     Serve  hot  with  boiled  poultry. 

Mushroom  Sauce. — One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful of  flour,  a  cup  of  stock  and  one-half  cup  of  mushrooms ; 
salt  and  pepper.  Brown  the  butter,  add  flour,  stir  until  smooth, 
add  stock  and  when  smooth  strain.  Add  the  mushrooms  and 
season  when  the  sauce  has  thickened.  Pepper  and  Worcestershire 
sauce  to  taste. — Miss  Isahelle  McCurdy. 

Browned  Mushroom  Sauce. — Put  into  a  hot  frying  pan 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  When  brown,  stir  in  one-half  of 
a  small  onion  (sliced)  and  two  or  three  slices  of  carrots.  Let 
brown  thoroughly.  When  done  skim  out  the  onion  and  carrot. 
Then  pour  into  the  brown  butter  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  mush- 
rooms and  two  cups  of  good  beef  stock.  When  boiling,  thicken 
with  enough  flour  (previously  stirred  smooth  with  a  little  cream) 
until  the  consistency  of  good,  thick  cream.  Strain  and  add  the 
mushrooms  cut  into  small  pieces.  Let  boil  again  and  serve. 
Fresh  mushrooms  can  be  used  in  place  of  the  canned  mushrooms 
and  are  much  better. 

Sauce  Tartare. — Take  a  cup  of  mayonnaise,  beat  into  it  a 
tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  minced 
cucumber  pickles,  minced  capers,  two    small    spoons    of    French 


y6  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

mustard,  six  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  eight  drops  of  onion  juice. 
A  LA  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter. — Cream  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  dash  of  pepper,  one-half 
tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley  and  one-half  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice  very  slowly. — Airs.  W.  J.  Sampson. 

ViLLEROY  Sauce. — Take  an  equal  quantity  of  butter  and  flour.. 
Mix  well  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  in  a  sauce  pan  until  highly  colored. 
Then  stir  in  one  pint  of  meat  broth,  a  few  mushrooms  and  a  pinch 
of  sweet  herbs  or  vegetable  bunch.  Let  the  mixture  simmer 
for  fifteen  minutes ;  then  strain  through  a  fine  hair  sieve  and 
boil  until  slightly  reduced.  When  ready  to  serve,  thicken  the 
sauce  with  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs.  A  good  sauce  for 
sweet-breads. — Oscar. 

Hollandaise  Sauce. — This  sauce  is  difficult  to  make  so  that 
it  will  not  curdle.  To  make  it,  use  a  double  boiler  but  do  not  let 
the  water  get  more  than  warm.  If  too  hot,  it  will  spoil  the  sauce. 
Put  in  the  upper  boiler  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  stir  them  a 
little.  Then  add  a  cup  of  butter  bit  by  bit,  letting  each  melt  and 
become  incorporated  with  the  eggs  just  as  each  drop  of  oil  is  in 
mayonnaise.  Stir  steadily  and  constantly,  and  above  all  do  not 
try  to  hurry  the  sauce  or  it  will  separate.  Squeeze  a  lemon, 
carefully  remove  all  the  seeds  and  measure  out  two  thirds  of  it. 
When  the  butter  and  eggs  are  worked  together  perfectly,  lift  the 
boilers  from  the  fire  but  leave  them  together  so  that  the  sauce 
cannot  get  a  chance  to  cool.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  drop  in,  little 
by  little,  the  lemon  juice. 

Bread  Sauce  for  Game. — Sift  two  cupfuls  of  dried  bread 
crumbs.  Put  on  the  fire  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  small  onion  (sliced). 
When  the  milk  is  scalded,  remove  the  onion  and  add  enough  of 
the  fine  crumbs  to  thicken  it.  Season  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  nut- 
meg. Put  the  coarse  crumbs  into  a  pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  saute  a  light  brown  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  a  dash 
of  paprika.  Serve  the  fried  crumbs  on  the  dish  with  the  game: 
Serve  the  sauce  in  a  sauce  boat. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Wick. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. — Take  the  yolk  of  one  &gg,  beat  with 
an  tgg  beater  until  it  begins  to  look  foamy,  not  enough  to  make 
it  light.  Then  add  olive  oil,  a  drop  at  a  time,  until  it  begins  to 
thicken.    Press  the  juice  from  one  lemon  into  a  cup;   put  a  level 


SAUCES  AND  RELISHES  FOR  MEATS  'J'] 

teaspoonful  of  salt  in  and  a  little  paprika  and  a  small  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard.  Then  begin  to  add  this  mixture  to  the 
oil  and  ^^g,  a  few  drops  of  the  mixture,  then  a  little  more  oil, 
until  it  gets  very  stiff.  You  will  have  about  one-half  pint  when 
done.  Just  before  using,  beat  four  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  fold  lightly  into  the  mayonnaise. — Mrs  S. 
Stevenson. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. — Beat  the  yolk  of  three  eggs;  add 
slowly  two  cups  of  olive  oil,  thinning  with  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 
Will  require  about  two  lemons  or  about  one-half  cup  of  vinegar. 
One-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  liberal  sprinkle  of  paprika.  To 
mix,  use  Dover  beater.  Last,  fold  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs. — Mrs.  IV.  D.  Euzver. 

French  Dressing. — To  three  tablespoonfuls  of  best  salad 
oil  use  two  of  vinegar  (some  prefer  the  Tarragon),  two  salt 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  paprika.  Beat  the  salt  and  the  paprika 
into  the  oil  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  Then  add  vinegar  and 
beat  again.    For  some  salads  a  little  onion  juice  is  an  improvement. 

Mustard  for  Table  Use. — One-half  teacup  of  vinegar ;  put 
on  to  boil.  Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  teacup  of  Coleman's  mustard 
mixed  with  a  little  cold  vinegar. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Anns. 

French  Mustard. — Three  ounces  of  salt,  two  ounces  of 
grated  horseradish,  one  clove  of  garlic,  one  quart  of  boiling  vine- 
gar. Let  it  remain  mixed  twenty-four  hours ;  strain  and  mix  with 
flour  of  mustard  to  thickness  required. 

To  Brown  Flour. — Sift  some  fiour  and  spread  on  a  plate  and 
set  in  the  oven,  stirring  it  frequently  so  that  it  may  be  burned  all 
through  the  same.  Nice  for  thickening  or  coloring  soups  and 
gravies.  Put  in  a  jar  and  keep  well  covered  to  keep  any  length 
of  time. 

Apple  Sauce.— Pare,  core  and  slice  sour,  juicy  apples.  Stew 
them  with  sufficient  water  to  prevent  burning.  When  done,  mash 
them  through  a  colander.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Add  a  tiny  piece 
of  butter  and  a  little  nutmeg  or  lemon  if  liked. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — One  quart  of  cranberries,  one  quart  of 
water  and  one  pound  of  white  sugar.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  water 
and  sugar.    After  washing  the  berries  clean — and  picking  out  all 


78  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

poor  ones — drop  them  into  the  boihng  syrup.    Let  them  cook  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.    They  are  very  nice  strained. 

A  Quick  Mayonnaise  Dressing. — Break  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
into  a  small,  deep  bowl  (the  egg  must  be  perfectly  fresh  so  that 
it  stands  up  stiff  and  firm).  Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  best 
salad  oil,  one  of  Tarragon  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  whip  with  an  egg  beater  until  thick.  A  thick  mayonnaise  is 
the  result.  Mustard,  cayenne  pepper,  paprika  may  be  added  if 
desired.  This  makes  enough  dressing  for  one-half  dozen  plates 
of  salad. 

Horse-Radish  Sauce. — Take  the  roots,  wash  and  scrape 
clean,  grate  fine,  cover  with  strong  vinegar,  put  into  a  bottle  and 
keep  well  corked  or  it  will  lose  its  strength. 

Baked  Pears  or  Peaches. — Take  either  the  fresh  or  the 
canned  fruit,  pared,  cut  through  the  center  and  cored.  Lay  in  a 
porcelain  lined  pan  the  hollow  side  up.  Fill  the  cavities  with 
sugar  and  small  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  ground  cinnamon.  Pour 
over  one-half  cup  of  water  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  waxy. 

Gooseberry  Relish. — Two  quarts  of  gooseberries,  two 
oranges  cut  in  cubes  (rind  left  on),  one-half  pound  of  raisins,  one 
pint  of  water,  three  pints  of  sugar.  Cook  twenty  minutes  or  until 
quite  thick. — Mrs.  J.  H.  McEwen. 


EGGS  AND  OMELETS 


To  Boil  Eggs.— If  they  are  wanted  quite  soft,  pour  over 
them  boiling  water  until  well  covered  and  let  them  remain  on  the 
back  of  the  stove  for  five  minutes.  For  hard  boiled  eggs  let  them 
boil  ten  minutes. — Mrs.  AI.  I.  Anns. 

To  Poach  Eggs.— Break  the  eggs  separately  into  a  saucer, 
and  after  the  water  in  the  sauce  pan  has  boiled  slip  the  eggs  one 
by  one  into  the  water.  Throw  carefully  with  a  spoon  a  little  of 
the  water  over  each  to  whiten  and  do  not  let  them  cook  too  hard. 
When  done,  take  out  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  on  slices  of  buttered 
toast.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put  a  small  piece  of 
butter  on  each  egg. 

Poached  Eggs  in  Aspic. — Make  a  good  strong  veal  or 
chicken  stock.  Put  a  small  slice  of  cold  boiled  ham  or  tongue  in 
the  bottom  of  individual  dishes.  Pour  over  this  a  little  of  the 
stock  and  let  stiffen.  Then  place  on  each  a  poached  egg  and  pour 
over  more  stock  to  which  has  been  added  a  little  slice  of  green 
pepper,  pimento  and  chopped  olives.  Set  on  ice  until  ready  to 
serve. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick,  Elyria. 

Poached  Eggs  with  Mushrooms. — In  slightly  salted  boiling 
water  deep  enough  to  cover,  break  ten  eggs  and  do  not  let  the 
water  boil  again,  but  dip  up  over  the  eggs  until  the  whites  are 
set.  Have  ready  ten  slices  of  nicely  browned  toast  with  edges 
neatly  trimmed,  butter  them.  Take  up  the  eggs  carefully,  place 
on  the  toast,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  on  the  top  of  each, 
place  a  fresh  mushroom  previously  sauted  in  butter  to  a  delicate 
brown.  Pour  over  a  brown  mushroom  sauce  and  serve  on  a  hot 
platter  or  individual  plates. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Fried  Eggs. — Have  in  a  skillet  some  pork  drippings  boiling 
hot.  Break  the  eggs  into  this  carefully — not  breaking  the  yolks 
— and  fry  them  until  the  vv^hite  hardens.  If  preferred,  turn  and 
fry  on  both  sides.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 


80  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Scrambled  Eggs. — Take  eight  or  ten  eggs.  Have  ready  in 
a  skillet  butter  quite  hot.  Drop  in  the  eggs  and  stir  well  all  the 
time  until  they  harden  a  little.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. — 
Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Mushrooms. — Cut  one-half  can  of 
mushrooms  into  thin  slices.  Beat  five  eggs  without  separating 
until  the  yolks  and  whites  are  blended  only.  Add  five  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream.  Mix  well.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a 
chafing  dish  and  when  hot,  add  half  can  of  mushrooms.  Cook 
until  they  are  heated  and  begin  to  delicately  brown.  Then  turn 
in  the  five  beaten  eggs.  As  soon  as  they  begin  to  cook,  stir  and 
continue  stirring  until  they  have  cooked  to  the  desired  consis- 
tency. Season  when  about  half  cooked  with  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  of  paprika,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs. 
R.  McCurdy. 

Mexican  Eggs. — A  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  two  onions  and 
eight  eggs.  Let  the  onion  (finely  minced)  cook  in  the  tomatoes 
until  it  is  soft.  Break  into  this  the  eggs,  stir  them  through  it. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  paprika  and  serve  on  slices  of  toast. — 
Mrs.  W.  D.  Euwer. 

Hard  Boiled  Eggs. — Place  the  eggs  in  cold  water  in  a  sauce 
pan.  Bring  the  water  to  a  boil  and  let  the  eggs  boil  for  ten  minutes. 
After  the  water  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  take  out  the  eggs  and 
let  them  get  cold  in  cold  water.  When  cold,  immediately  remove 
the  outer  shell,  but  do  not  cut  up  hard  boiled  eggs  for  garsishing 
purposes  until  close  upon  the  time  they  are  wanted  as  the  yolks 
dry  up  and  soon  become  discolored. 

Shirred  Eggs. — Break  the  eggs  in  a  porcelain  dish  or  in  indi- 
vidual dishes.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter 
on  top,  and  set  in  the  oven  until  the  whites  harden.  Serve  quite 
hot  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  cooked. 

Devilled  Eggs. — Boil  the  eggs  fifteen  minutes  and  drop  into 
a  pan  of  cold  water  as  soon  as  they  are  taken  out  of  the  pot.  This 
allows  the  shells  to  be  removed  without  breaking  the  whites.  Cut 
into  halves  and  take  out  the  yolks.  Mix  with  a  little  vinegar, 
mustard,  salt,  pepper,  melted  butter,  onion  and  celery  seed.  Rub 
to  a  smooth  paste  and  fill  the  cavities  in  the  whites.  The  cuplike 
white  of  the  egg  can  be  made  to  stand  by  cutting  a  small  portion 


EGGS  AND  OMELETS  8 1 

from  the  round  ends.  Devilled  eggs  may  be  served  cold  or 
garnished  with  butter  and  baked  a  few  moments  and  served  hot. 
— Mrs.  W.  J.  Sampson. 

Cheese  Omelet. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  cheese,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Melt  butter,  add  flour,  stir ; 
add  warm  milk  slowly  stirring ;  separate  the  eggs,  add  salt  to  the 
whites,  beat  each,  add  cheese,  stir  two  minutes,  add  yellows,  then 
whites.  Pour  in  buttered  dish,  bake  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 
It  should  puff  up  in  six  or  seven  minutes  if  oven  is  hot. — Mrs. 
Robert  McCurdy. 

Omelet. — Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  eight  eggs  separately 
until  light.  Then  beat  together,  add  a  little  salt,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cream.  Have  in  the  omelet  pan  a  piece  of  butter. 
When  the  butter  is  boiling  hot,  pour  in  the  omelet  and  shake 
until  it  begins  to  stiffen  and  then  let  it  brown.  Fold  double  and 
serve  hot. — Miss  Em.  Arms. 

Omelet. — Take  four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separ- 
ately, three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  stirred  into  the  yolks. 
then  fold  in  the  beaten  whites.  Have  omelet  pan  very  hot  with 
small  bits  of  butter.  Put  in  omelet  and  let  stand  on  the  stove  until 
it  sets.  Then  put  in  the  oven  until  dried  on  the  top,  which  takes 
about  four  minutes.  Serve  with  cream  sauce. — Mrs.  W.  S. 
Bonnell. 

Eggs  a  la  Creole. — Beat  four  eggs  until  blended  only,  add 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  stock.  Brown  a  teaspoonful  of 
onion  finely  chopped  in  butter,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  to- 
matoes drained,  then  cook  for  eight  minutes.  Add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sliced  mushrooms  and  one  tablespoonful  of  red  pep- 
pers. Season.  Pour  in  eggs  and  cook  as  for  scrambled  eggs. 
Serve  on  round  pieces  of  toast  or  sauted  bread. — Mrs.  Robert 
McCurdy. 

Baked  Omelet. — Set  one-half  pint  of  milk  on  the  fire  and 
stir  in  one-half  cup  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  salt. 
When  scalding  hot,  beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  add  them.  Stir 
in  the  whites  and  set  immediately  in  the  oven.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  and  serve  as  soon  as  done. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Woodman. 


82  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

Bread  Omelet. — One  cup  of  bread  crumbs  wet  with  a  little 
milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  stand  until  soft.  Beat  eight  eggs  light. 
Heat  the  skillet,  adding  a  large  lump  of  butter.  Mix  the  bread 
and  eggs,  pour  into  the  skillet  and  after  the  eggs  harden,  divide 
in  the  middle. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 

Egg  Omelet. — For  six  persons  take  four  eggs,  separate  the 
yolks  from  the  whites,  pour  boiling  water  over  one-half  slice  of 
stale  bread ;  press  most  of  the  water  out  of  the  bread.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  and  add  them  to  the  bread  and  beat  together. 
Then  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  milk  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
When  the  frying  pan  is  hot,  butter  it  well ;  have  the  whites  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  just  before  putting  into  the  pan,  stir  in  the 
whites  gently.  When  a  nice  brown,  cut  it  in  quarters,  turn  and 
brown  on  the  other  side.    Then  serve  hot. 

Spanish  Omelet. — For  making  omelets  a  perfectly  clean, 
porcelain  lined  frying  pan  is  best.  Place  in  the  pan  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg.  Beat  four  eggs  until  well  mixed 
but  not  stiff.  Add  a  little  salt.  When  the  butter  is  melted,  pour 
the  eggs  into  the  hot  frying  pan  and  as  it  cooks  raise  the  edges 
carefully  with  a  knife,  keeping  the  cream  part  towards  the  center 
until  it  partially  stiffens.  The  moment  it  is  thickened  or  set,  have 
ready  one  onion,  one  green  pepper  and  one  ripe  tomato,  all  chopped 
together,  well  seasoned  and  sauted  for  a  few  minutes  in  hot  butter. 
Spread  this  hot  mixture  over  the  center  of  the  omelet,  fold  and 
serve  at  once.  Omelets  should  be  eaten  immediately  after  they 
are  cooked  or  they  will  become  tough.  Grated  cheese  or  chopped 
ham,  stewed  tomatoes  or  mushrooms  can  be  used  in  this  omelet 
instead  of  the  Spanish  mixture. — Mrs.  IV m.  H.  Hudnnt. 


CHLESE 


REMARKS  ON  RAREBITS. 

The  ordinary  American  factory  cheese  is  best  for  rarebits 
because  it  grates  easily,  melts  quickly  and  mixes  well  with  the 
other  ingredients.  The  more  quickly  they  are  eaten  after  they 
are  cooked,  the  better  they  are. 

Welsh  Rarebit. — Two  and  one-half  pint  cups  of  grated  or 
finely  cut  cheese,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard  even,  one-half  glass 
of  bass  ale  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  cayenne  pepper  to  taste,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  just  melted 
in  the  chafing  dish.  Pour  in  cheese,  add  seasoning,  stir  in  ale  or 
cream  slowly.  Stir  until  the  rarebit  becomes  stringy.  Serve  at 
once  on  thin  slices  of  toast.  Light  cheese — not  too  rich — is  best 
to  use. — Mrs.  IV.  J.  Sampson. 

Golden  Buck. — Take  of  good,  sharp  American  cheese,  one 
pound;  chop  (not  grate)  it  until  reduced  the  size  of  a  pea.  On 
it  sprinkle  separately  a  sprinkle  of  cayenne  pepper  and  a  generous 
though  not  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  dried  mustard.  Mix 
well  together  after  having  drained  all  into  a  scrupulously  clean 
galvanized  frying  pan.  Then  pour  over  the  cheese  a  tumbler  full 
of  old  stock  ale.  The  fire  must  be  clear  but  not  too  brisk  so  that 
the  temperature  may  be  gradually  raised  to  the  melting  of  the 
cheese.  Stir  constantly  but  gently  with  a  circular  motion  from  the 
circumference  of  the  pan  to  the  center  until  the  cheese  is  all  dis- 
solved into  a  creamlike  consistency  and  the  bubbles  are  rising 
freely.  Mix  in  one  v/ell  beaten  fresh  egg,  stir  again  for  a  minute 
and  a  half  and  then  pour  over  hot  toast.  The  toast  must  have 
been  previously  prepared  in  this  way :  Slice  evenly  and  of  the 
thickness  of  one-half  inch  bread  about  twenty-four  hours  old. 
Toast  a  nice  brown,  cut  off  the  crust  and  arrange  on  a  platter. 
Pour  over  the  cheese  and  serve  a  poached  egg  placed  on  each  piece 
of  toast. — Lawrence  Barrett. 


84  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Golden  Buck. — Golden  Buck  is  a  Welsh  rarebit  with  a 
poached  egg  laid  on  it. 

Yorkshire  Rarebit. — A  Yorkshire  is  a  Golden  Buck  with 
a  slice  of  broiled  or  fried  bacon  laid  on  the  poached  egg. 

Brandy  Cheese. — Allow  one-half  tumbler  of  brandy  to  one 
pound  of  best  cheese.  Grate  the  cheese,  mix  well  with  the  brandy 
and  press  hard  into  a  crock  with  a  potato  masher.  Cover  with 
thin  paper  dipped  in  brandy.  When  wanted  for  use,  slice. — Miss 
Sallie  Arms. 

Sage  Cheese. — Pound  in  a  mortar  the  young  sage  leaves 
until  you  have  extracted  the  juice.  Proceed  then  as  for  brandy 
cheese. 

Cottage  Cheese  or  Smearcase. — Set  in  the  warm  oven  of 
a  stove  where  it  is  not  too  hot,  a  gallon  crock  of  sour  milk.  Let 
stand  until  the  milk  separates.  Then  pour  into  a  clean,  white 
cloth  and  let  it  hang  until  the  liquor  is  all  drained  out,  which  will 
be  about  twenty-four  hours.  Do  not  squeeze  as  this  toughens  it. 
Then  take  the  curd  and  mix  with  it  sweet  cream  until  the  consis- 
tency desired.  Some  like  it  quite  creamy.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Cheese  Boulettes. — One  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  American 
cheese,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  Parmesan  cheese,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  paprika.  Grate  the  American  cheese 
very  fine,  add  the  Parmesan  and  the  seasonings.  Mix  well.  Add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stifif  and  dry.  Add  the  flour,  form 
into  small  balls,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  smoking  fat. 
— Miss  Isahelle  McCurdy. 

Cheese  Crusts. — Cut  bread  into  strips  one  inch  wide  and 
four  to  five  inches  long  and  one-half  inch  thick.  Cover  with  grated 
cheese.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  to 
brown. 

Cheese  Stew. — Place  some  pieces  of  cheese  cut  up  very  small 
in  a  tin  with  a  little  butter.  Stir  it  about  until  all  is  mixed.  Season, 
and  stew  until  the  cheese  and  butter  are  of  one  consistency.  Some 
add  a  very  little  Worcestershire  sauce.     Serve  very  hot  in  a  tin. 


CHEESE  S5 

Cheese  Straws. — Two  ounces  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  two 
ounces  of  grated  cheese.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Rub  the  butter  and  cheese  well  into  the  flour,  add  the  seasoning 
and  sufficient  yolk  of  egg  to  make  this  whole  into  a  stiff  paste. 
Roll  out  thin  and  cut  into  strips  four  or  five  inches  long  and  one- 
half  inch  wide.    Bake. 

Toasted  Crackers  and  Cheese. — Take  round  or  square 
fresh  crackers ;  spread  lightly  with  either  French  mustard  or 
Coleman's  mustard  mixed  with  a  little  vinegar.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  then  thoroughly  cover  with  a  good  white  Amer- 
ican cheese  grated.  Set  in  a  hot  over  vmtil  the  cheese  melts. 
Serve  at  once. 

Cheese  Balls  to  be  Served  with  Salad. — One  cup  of 
grated  cheese,  mix  with  the  white  of  one  egg.  Season  with  pap- 
rika. Roll  in  a  ball  the  size  of  a  hickorynut.  Then  roll  the  balls 
in  fine  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  lard. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 


LUNCHEON  DISHES 


Chops  a  la  Maintenon. — Six  French  chops,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  mushrooms,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  stock,  one  tablespoonful  of 
parsley,  salt,  pepper  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Have  chops  cut 
into  not  less  than  one  inch  thick  and  Frenched.  With  a  sharp 
knife,  cut  the  chops  in  two  down  to  the  bone.  Melt  the  butter, 
add  flour,  stir  until  smooth  and  well  cooked.  Add  mushrooms 
and  parsley ;  stir  until  heated.  Take  from  the  fire ;  cool.  When 
ready  to  broil  chops,  fill  the  spaces  with  mixture,  pressing  the 
edges  carefully  together.  Broil  eight  minutes  and  serve  with 
mushroom  sauce. — Miss  Isabelle  McCurdy. 

Pressed  Chicken. — Boil  two  chickens  until  tender.  Take 
out  the  bones  and  chop  the  meat  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter.  Boil  down  the  liquor  the  chickens  were  boiled  in  until 
there  remains  only  enough  to  make  the  chopped  meat  quite  moist. 
Put  the  meat  into  a  mold  of  any  shape  that  is  desirable  or  con- 
venient. When  cold,  turn  out  and  cut  in  slices.  It  is  excellent 
for  picnics  or  lunch. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Wick. 

Chicken  Croquettes. — One  cold  boiled  chicken  chopped 
fine.  Then  take  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  when  the  milk  is  boiled, 
stir  into  it  two  large  tablesponfuls  of  flour  made  thin  in  a  little 
cold  milk.  After  the  flour  is  well  cooked  with  the  milk,  put  in  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  &gg,  add  salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Stir  all  well  into  the  chicken.  Roll  up  with  your  hand  into  balls 
and  dip  first  into  an  tgg  beaten  up,  then  into  crackers  rolled  fine, 
and  fried  in  hot  lard  or  tallow  (fresh  tallow,  half  and  half  lard, 
is  very  nice). — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Chicken  Croquettes. — Take  cold  veal,  chicken  or  sweet 
breads,  a  little  of  each  or  separately.  Cut  very  fine  a  little  fat  and 
lean  of  ham ;  half  the  quantity  of  the  whole  of  bread  crumbs,  two 
eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  mustard. 
Knead  like  sausage  meat,  adding  a   little    cream.      Form   into 


LUNCHEON    DISHES  87 

shapes,  dip  in  egg  and  then  in  rolled  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  lard 
until  a  light  brown.  Dry  them  in  the  oven.  Celery  or  mushrooms 
are  an  improvement. — Mrs.  E.  W.  McClure. 

Chicken  Livers  and  Bacon. — Wash  the  chicken  livers 
thoroughly,  dry  them,  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Then 
place  on  skewer  alternate  livers  and  then  strips  of  breakfast  bacon. 
Either  broil  over  a  clear  hot  fire  or  set  in  a  pan  and  roast  in  the 
oven.  They  should  be  well  cooked  through  and  require  about 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes'  time. 

Salmi  of  Beef  or  Duck. — One  cup  of  cold  beef  or  duck  cut 
into  small  pieces.  One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  gravy 
or  stock,  one-quarter  cup  of  currant  jelly,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
claret,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  tomato  cat- 
sup, one  tablespoonful  of  stuffed,  stoned  olives.  Salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Melt  butter  and  brown ;  add  flour,  stir  until  smooth  and 
brown.  Add  stock,  olives,  currant  jelly,  catsup,  salt  and  pepper. 
When  sauce  begins  to  thicken,  put  in  the  meat  and  cook  it  until 
it  is  entirely  heated  through. — Miss  Isabelle  McCurdy. 

Scotch  Woodcock. — Six  hard  boiled  eggs  coarsely  chopped, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful of  anchovy  paste,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  a  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper.  Cook  butter  and  flour  together  until  they  bubble. 
Add  milk  and  stir  until  smooth.  Put  in  the  anchovy  paste  and 
the  cayenne  and  one  minute  later  the  eggs.  Simmer  three 
minutes  and  serve  on  toast. 

Calf's  Liver  Pate. — Chop  two  pounds  of  calf's  liver  fine, 
also  a  scrap  of  salt  pork.  Mix  into  fine  herbs,  bay  leaf,  pepper, 
salt  and  two  eggs.  Line  a  bread  tin  with  strips  of  salt  pork.  By 
buttering  the  tins  it  will  stay  in  place.  Mix  the  eggs  with  the 
minced  liver  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Cover  and  bake  four 
hours. — Mrs.  W.  G.  Pollock. 

Cecils. — One  cup  of  cold  beef  chopped  fine ;  add  seasoning 
of  salt,  pepper  and  grated  onion,  also  two  tablespoonfuls  of  bread. 
Soak  in  milk  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg.  Melt  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  in  a  griddle  and  add  the  meat  mixture.  Stir  over  the 
fire  for  two  minutes.  Then  take  from  fire,  form  into  balls,  dust 
with  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in 
deep  fat  like  a  doughnut.  Serve  with  cream  or  tomato  sauce. — 
Mrs.  W.  D.  Euwer. 


88  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Marrowbones. — Have  the  bones  cut  into  pieces  two  or  three 
inches  long.  Scrape  and  wash  them  very  clean,  spread  a  little 
thick  dough  on  each  end  to  keep  the  marrow  in,  then  tie  each  one 
in  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  and  boil  them  for  one  hour.  Remove 
the  cloth  and  paste  and  place  each  bone  on  a  square  of  toast. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  a  little  red  pepper  and  serve  very  hot.  The 
marrowbones  can  be  boiled  without  being  cut.  The  marrow  then 
remove  with  a  spoon  and  place  on  squares  of  hot  toast. — Mrs.  C. 
F.  Hofer. 

Marrowbones. — Have  the  bottom  of  the  bones  cut  so  that 
they  will  stand  upright.  Cover  the  ends  where  the  marrow  is  with 
a  flour  and  water  thick  paste.  Boil  them  in  a  sauce  pan  but  do 
not  let  the  water  come  higher  than  half  way  up  the  bone.  Time  to 
boil  rather  more  than  an  hour.  Serve  a  hot  dry  toast  with  them. 
The  marrow  should  be  scooped  out  and  quickly  spread  lightly 
over  the  toast  and  then  freely  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper. — 
English  Cook  Book. 

Frog  Legs. — Only  the  hid  legs  are  fit  for  cooking.  After 
skinning  them,  let  stand  in  salt  water  for  one-half  hour.  Then 
wipe  dry,  dip  in  milk,  then  fiour  or  finely  sifted  bread  crumbs  and 
saute  in  half  lard  and  half  butter  until  a  delicate  brown,  or  fry  in 
deep,  hot  lard.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  send  to  the  table 
very  hot  with  quarters  of  lemon. 

Sweet  Breads  Fried  or  Baked. — Calf's  or  lamb's  sweet- 
breads are  the  best.  Soak  in  cold  salt  and  water  one  hour.  Then 
parboil  for  five  or  ten  minutes  according  to  their  size.  Take  them 
out  and  throw  them  into  cold  milk  (this  whitens  them)  and  let 
them  get  quite  cold.  Take  them  out  of  the  milk  and  trim  them 
from  skin  and  flap.  Then  dip  in  an  Qgg  beaten  up  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk.  Dip  in  finely  rolled  bread  crumbs  and  fry  them 
to  a  nice  golden  brown  color.  Can  be  also  served  with  a  rich 
brown  gravy.  If  the  sweet-breads  are  especially  large,  are  nice 
baked  in  the  oven.  Do  not  bread  crumb  but  cover  them  with 
slices  of  bacon.  Baste  often  with  melted  butter.  When  done,  take 
out  and  serve  with  a  rich  brown  sauce  poured  over. 

Devilled  Kidneys. — Prepare  two  beef  kidneys,  cut  up  and 
parboil  one  hour.  In  an  iron  frying  pan  fry  four  slices  of  bacon 
cut  into  small  pieces  and  one  sliced  onion  until  all  are  well 
browned.     Then  put  in  the  bits  of  kidney  and  brown  that  also. 


LUNCHEON    DISHES  Sq 

Season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  cayenne,  a  pinch  of 
powdered  nutmeg.  Dredge  all  with  flour,  add  one  cup  of  tomato 
and  one  cup  of  water.  Cover  closely  and  simmer  slowly  one  hour. 
— New  Orleans. 

A  Luncheon  Suggestion. — A  luncheon  suggestion  when 
tomatoes  are  in  season  is  to  serve  the  oyester  cocktails  in  tomato 
shells.  Select  small  firm  tomatoes,  have  them  ice  cold,  scoop  out 
the  center  and  fill  with  the  oysters  and  seasoning. 

Anchovy  Toast. — Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  sauce 
pan  and  set  this  in  a  larger  dish  of  hot  water ;  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  curry  powder  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  As  soon  as  the  butter 
has  melted  and  the  water  in  the  outer  vessel  is  boiling,  pour  in 
two  well  beaten  eggs  mixed  with  half  a  tablespoonful  of  anchovy 
paste.  Keep  stirring  until  the  mixture  thickens  a  little,  then  re- 
move at  once  from  the  hot  water  to  prevent  curdling.  Spread  on 
toasted  bread. 

Baked  Bananas. — Clip  the  ends  and  slit  the  skin  from  end 
to  end  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  about  fifteen  minutes. 
Serve  hot. 

Creamed  Mushrooms. — Peel  one  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms, 
cut  up.  Melt  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  blazers,  add  mush- 
rooms, cover  and  cook  eight  minutes.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour ;  stir  until  smooth  and  thoroughly  cooked.  Add  one  cup  of 
cream;  season.  When  sauce  is  hot  and  has  thickened  slightly, 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  sherry. — Miss  Isahellc  McCiirdy. 

Mushroom  Saute. — Prepare  mushrooms  and  dredge  with 
flour.  Melt  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  mushrooms,  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice,  salt  and  paprika.  Cook  six  minutes;  then 
add  one-third  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  simmer  four  minutes. 
Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley,  lemon  juice  and  serve  on  toast. — 
Miss  Isabelle  McCurdy. 

Cucumber  Farci. — Four  medium  sized  cucumbers,  one 
P  ranco- American  game  pate,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one 
tablespoonful  of  sherry,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  six  drops  of  onion 
extract,  one  cupful  of  cooked  chicken,  one  tablespoonful  of  chop- 
ped parsley,  one  cupful  of  chicken  stock,  one  teaspoonful  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  paprika.  Peel  the 
cucumbers  and  cut  into  halves  lengthwise.     Mix  the    chopped, 


go  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

cooked  chicken  carefully  with  the  game  pate,  cream,  pepper,  salt 
and  onion  extract.  Add  lemon  juice  if  more  seasoning  is  desired. 
Scoop  out  the  seeds  from  the  cucumber  with  a  spoon,  fill  the 
spaces  with  a  force-meat  mixture.  Put  the  shells  in  a  shallow 
baking  pan  and  cover  with  the  hot  stock.  Add  the  wine  and  bake 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  basting  often.  Before  taking  from  the 
oven,  cover  with  browned  bread  crumbs  and  bake  two  minutes 
longer.  Serve  with  sauce  Hollandaise  on  lettuce  leaves. — Miss 
Isabelle  McCurdy. 

BouDiN. — One  pound  of  raw  chicken  (breast),  put  through 
a  sausage  grinder  four  or  five  times  so  that  no  fibre  remains.  One- 
quarter  pound  of  salt  pork  ditto;  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  grated 
onion,  one-half  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-half  can  of  mushrooms  chopped  fine,  one-half  can  of 
mushroom  liquor.  Put  mushrooms  in  with  chicken,  add  salt, 
grated  onion,  eggs  beaten  together;  mix.  Put  into  a  mold  and 
steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  white  sauce. — Mrs.  James  L. 
Botsford. 

Fried  Roe. — Let  stand  in  salt  and  water  for  twenty  minutes ; 
wash  well  and  plunge  into  boiling  water  and  boil  ten  minutes. 
Then  throw  into  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  drain,  wipe  dry,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  fine  brown. 

Ham  Rarebit. — Toast  circular  pieces  of  bread  a  delicate 
brown  and  spread  them  first  with  butter  and  then  with  potted 
ham.  Lay  on  each  a  thin  slice  of  cheese  and  a  little  prepared 
mustard.  Put  the  rounds  on  a  baking  tin  and  stand  in  3  hot  oven 
until  the  cheese  melts.  Serve  immediately  on  a  napkin  on  a  hot 
platter.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  individually  with  a  doily  under- 
neath. 

Ham  Mousse. — Two  cups  of  grated,  cold  boiled  ham,  one- 
half  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  warm  water,  one  cup  of 
cream  whipped  stiff,  juice  of  one  lemon,  cayenne  pepper.  Mix 
ham,  lemon  juice,  pepper,  add  cream  and  gelatine.  Pour  in  a 
mold  and  slice  cold. — Mrs.  R.  McCurdy. 

Ham  on  Toast. — Boil  one-quarter  pound  lean  ham,  chop 
fine,  mix  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  ounce  of 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  a  little  cayenne  pepper;  stir 
over  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  spread  on  hot  toast. 


LUNCHEON    DISHES  9I 

A  Dressing  for  Ham,  Good  for  Lunch. — One  tablespoonful 
of  French  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  sherry  wine,  to  four  thin 
slices  of  ham  made  hot.  A  good  chafing  dish  recipe. — Mrs.  A.  E. 
Kauffman. 


FOR  THE  CHAFING  DISH 


REMARKS. 

The  chafing  dish  is  invaluable  for  serving  a  hasty  luncheon ; 
after-theatre  bites,  or  the  Sunday  night  tea.  and  nowhere  does 
it  do  better  service  than  in  the  sick-room,  where  small  quantities 
quickly  prepared,  and  served  hot  will  often  tempt  the  invalid's 
appetite. 

Sardines  on  Toast. — One  dozen  sardines ;  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  anchovy  paste ;  one  tablespoonful 
of  sauterne,  and  a  little  tobasco  sauce.  Drain,  and  remove  the 
skin  of  the  sardines,  put  in  the  butter,  anchovy  paste,  tobasco,  and 
sauterne.  Lay  in  the  sardines  carefully  and  when  well  heated 
through,  serve  each  on  a  tiny  strip  of  toast. 

Dried  Beef. — One-half  pound  of  chipped  dried  beef ;  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  one-half  pint  of  cream  ;  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour ;  one  egg.  Put  the  butter  in  the  chafing  dish ;  when  hot 
add  the  beef;  fry  until  brown,  then  add  the  cream.  Cream  the 
flour  with  a  little  cold  milk ;  then  stir  it  in ;  add  one  egg.  Serve 
on  toast. 

Pigs  in  Blankets. — Drain  and  wipe  nice  large  oysters.  Cut 
bacon  in  thin  slices,  and  put  one  oyster  in  each  slice  of  bacon, 
fastening  together  with  a  tooth-pick.  Cook  in  hot  blazer  until 
crisp.     Serve  on  round  pieces  of  buttered  toast. 

Calf's  Liver  and  Bacon. — The  bacon  or  ham  should  be  cut 
in  thin  slices.  Put  the  bacon  into  the  chafing  dish ;  when  fat  is 
cooked  out,  draw  the  bacon  to  one  side.  After  rolling  in  flour, 
and  seasoning,  put  in  the  liver,  and  cook  until  brown  and  tender, 
turning  often.    Serve  a  slice  of  bacon  on  each  slice  of  liver. 

Broiled  Mushrooms. — One  quart  of  button  mushrooms ;  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Melt  a  little  of  the  butter,  add  the  mush- 
rooms. Cook  about  ten  minutes,  or  until  tender,  turning  often; 
season ;  add  the  rest  of  the  butter,  and  serve  hot  on  toast. 


FOR  THE  CHAFING  DISH  93 

Blanquette  of  Chicken. — One  pint  of  cold  chicken,  cut 
into  dice ;  one-half  cup  of  chicken  stock ;  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter ;  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  ;  yolks  of  two  eggs  ;  one- 
half  cup  of  cream ;  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  little  nutmeg,  cloves. 
Stir  the  butter  into  the  flour;  before  it  browns  add  the  stock,  stir 
a  few  minutes,  add  a  little  lemon  juice,  white  pepper,  salt  slightly, 
grating  the  nutmeg,  pinch  of  ground  cloves,  and  cream.  Boil  up 
once,  and  add  the  chicken.  Reduce  the  flame,  and  simmer  eight 
minutes ;  then  add  eggs,  well  beaten,  stir  in  chopped  parsley,  and 
serve  at  once. 

Vension. — Take  some  small  pieces  of  vension,  put  in  your 
chafing  dish ;  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  small  piece  of  butter ;  a 
tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly;  a  gill  of  currant  or  other  wine;  a 
gill  of  boiling  hot  water ;  cover  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes. — Mrs. 
^F.  /.  Hitchcock. 

Scrambled  Eggs. — Five  eggs;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Beat  the  eggs  in  a 
bowl  sufficiently  to  blend  the  whites  and  yolks.  Melt  the  butter, 
and  turn  in  the  eggs ;  stir  until  creamy.     Season. 

Eggs  with  Cheese. — Six  eggs;  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  cheese ;  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  onion  juice,  or  grated  onion;  one  saltspoonful  of  paprika,  and 
a  little  salt.  Mix  the  cheese,  butter,  onion,  paprika  and  salt  in 
the  hot  pan,  and  stir  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Break  the  eggs 
into  a  bowl ;  pour  them  onto  the  cheese.  Reduce  the  flame  of  the 
lamp  and  stir  until  done.     Serve  on  hot  toast. 


SANDWICHES  AND  CANAPES 


REMARKS. 


To  make  sandwiches  properly,  the  bread  should  be  about 
twenty-four  hours  old.  Use  a  bread  board,  and  sharp  knife  for 
cutting  the  sandwiches.  If  the  butter  is  a  little  warm  it  will  spread 
much  easier  and  prevent  the  bread  from  crumbling.  Spread  the 
butter  on  the  loaf  before  cutting  each  slice,  and  slice  very  thin. 
The  shape  of  the  sandwiches  is  a  matter  of  taste,  but  the  easiest 
to  handle  are  the  long  narrow  ones,  or  those  cut  diamond-shape, 
from  which  the  crust  has  been  removed. 

Meat  Sandwiches. — Ordinary  sandwiches  from  cold  boiled 
ham,  roast  beef  or  lamb,  are  made  by  putting  thin  slices  of  meat 
between  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  and  adding  plenty  of 
pepper  and  salt  and  sometimes  mixed  mustard. 

Egg  Sandwiches. — Cut  some  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter, 
sprinkle  them  on  the  buttered  side  with  mustard  and  chopped 
watercress.  Cut  some  hard  boiled  eggs  into  thin  slices ;  cover  one 
side  of  bread  and  butter,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  cover 
the  other  one  over  it.  Trim  the  edges  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  cut 
into  nice  little  triangular  pieces.  Wrap  the  sandwiches  in  lettuce 
leaves  and  then  in  wax  paper,  if  wanted  for  travelling. 

Mushroom  Sandwiches. — Cut  mushrooms  into  small  pieces 
and  simmer  in  butter  until  tender  (over-cooking  toughens.) 
Season  with  paprika  and  salt,  and  add  enough  cream  to  make  a 
good  consistency  for  spreading.  Allow  it  to  just  boil  up ;  add  a 
little  lemon  juice,  and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  toast. 

Club  Sandwiches. — Prepare  squares  of  toast  with  all  crust 
removed.  Broil  very  thin  slices  of  ham  or  bacon,  place  on  these  a 
crisp  lettuce  leaf,  spread  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  then  a  thin 
slice  of  the  breast  of  chicken,  slightly  salted.  Place  then  between 
the  squares  of  toast  and  serve  hot  on  folded  napkin. — Mrs. 
Henry  Wick. 


SANDWICHES  AND  CANAPES  95 

Anchovy  Sandwiches. — Chop  up  into  little  pieces,  but  not 
too  small,  some  anchovies.  Also  chop  up  an  equal  quantity  of 
hard  boiled  eggs ;  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  spread  be- 
tween thin  slices  of  bread,  the  crust  all  removed,  and  cut  in  dia- 
mond shape. 

Indian  Sandwiches. — Pound  two  ounces  of  cold  chicken 
with  one  ounce  of  cold  ham  or  tongue.  Moisten  then  in  a  stew 
pan  with  a  little  stock.  Add  a  dessertspoonful  of  curry  powder, 
and  if  liked  a  little  hot,  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Let  it  simmer  for 
ten  minutes ;  mix  into  smooth  paste,  and  make  into  sandwiches 
by  spreading  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

Tomato  Sandwiches. — Tomato  sandwiches  are  most  re- 
freshing in  hot  weather.  Cut  some  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter, 
sprinkle  these  with  mustard  and  cress.  Cut  some  thin  slices  of 
tomato,  parallel  with  the  core  to  avoid  having  rings  from  the  core 
dropping  out.  Mix  thin  slices  lightly  in  a  good  French  dressing, 
lay  these  slices  on  the  bread,  sprinkle  with  mustard  and  cress,  and 
cover  over  with  the  other  slice  of  bread  and  butter.  Cut  these 
slices  into  squares  or  triangles  with  a  very  sharp  knife,  and  place 
carefully  on  a  dish.  Place  a  border  of  parsley  around  the  dish  and 
ornament  with  some  small  round  red  tomatoes.  Keep  on  ice  until 
served. 

Cucumber  Sandwiches. — Pare  and  chop  fine  fresh  cucum- 
bers. To  three  parts  of  cucumbers,  add  one  part  of  pimentos,  also 
chopped  fine.  Salt  well,  and  drain  over  night.  Spread  thin  slices 
of  bread  with  butter,  then  with  mayonnaise,  then  spread  on  cu- 
cumbers and  pimentos  mixed.  Place  on  this  another  piece  of  bread 
spread  with  butter.  Cut  into  squares  or  triangles,  trim  the  edges 
neatly,  cutting  ofif  all  crust. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Sampson. 

Onion  Sandwiches. — Use  Spanish  or  Bermuda  onions.  Slice 
very  thin,  let  stand  in  a  good  French  dressing  for  three  or  four 
hours,  and  then  drain.  Sprinkle  with  pimentos  and  lay  between 
thin  slices  of  bread  spread  with  butter.  Trim  the  edges  with  a 
sharp  knife  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve. — Mrs. 
W.  J.  Sampson. 

Swiss  Cheese  Sandwiches. — Slice  Swiss  cheese  very  thin, 
spread  with  French  mustard ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  put  between 
slices  of  bread  and  butter,  with  crust  well  trimmed  off. 


96  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Jam  Sandwiches. — Before  cutting  from  the  loaf,  spread 
bread  with  butter,  cut  thin,  and  then  into  round  shapes  with 
bread  cutter.    Spread  with  raspberry  jam,  put  together  and  serve. 

Brown  Bread  and  Cheese  Sandwiches. — Cut  some  thin 
slices  of  brown  bread  without  crust.  Mix  thoroughly  some  soft 
cream  cheese  with  chopped  cress,  and  a  little  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Put  a  layer  of  this  between  slices  of  bread  and  serve. 

Lettuce  Sandwiches. — Wipe  dry,  crisp  fresh  lettuce  leaves, 
place  on  slice  of  bread  and  butter.  Spread  with  mayonnaise 
dressing,  then  lay  on  another  slice  of  bread  and  butter,  and  trim 
with  sharp  knife  into  any  fancy  shapes. 

CANAPES 

Potted  Meat  Canapes. — Cut  rounds  of  bread  with  biscuit 
cutter,  and  toast  them  or  drop  them  two  or  three  at  a  time  into 
boiling  fat.  When  golden  brown  lift  them  out  with  a  wire  spoon 
and  drain  on  tissue  paper.  Open  a  can  of  potted  tongue,  ham  or 
chicken,  rub  the  contents  to  a  pulp  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 
Season  if  desired,  and  spread  on  the  rounds  of  bread.  Set  a  pimola 
in  the  center  of  each,  and  serve  as  a  first  course.  Anchovies  and 
sardines  may  also  be  served  in  this  form,  omitting  the  egg,  and 
flavoring  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  Worcestshire  sauce. 

Caviare  Canapes. — Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter  in 
fancy  shapes  with  cutter.  Spread  with  best  imported  caviare  and 
equeeze  over  this  a  liberal  supply  of  lemon  juice.  Have  ready 
finely  chopped  parsley,  two  beets,  the  sifted  yolk  of  hard  boiled 
eggs.  Arrange  these  in  circles  on  the  canapes ;  then  garnish  with 
the  white  rings  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  beets  cut  in  fanciful  shapes, 
and  a  pimola  in  the  center  of  each. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Sabdine  Canapes. — Skin  and  bone  a  box  of  sardines,  and 
mash  to  a  paste.  Add  lemon  juice,  salt  and  red  pepper,  and 
minced  parsley  to  taste,  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread  and 
butter.     Cut  in  fancy  shapes  with  a  tin  cutter. 

Anchovy  Canapes. — Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  into  rounds. 
Toast  and  spread  with  anchovy  paste,  which  can  be  purchased  at 
the  grocer's.  Chop  the  whites  of  cold  boiled  eggs  very  fine ;  sift 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs ;  arrange  these  in  alternate  circles  around 
the  top  of  canape,  placing  a  ring  of  hard  boiled  white  of  egg  in 
center  with  a  whole  anchovy  curled  in  the  center  of  that. 


BREAD,  YEAST  AND  ROLLS 


REMARKS. 

There  is  nothing  truer  to  be  said  than  that  bread  is  the  staff 
of  Hfe,  and  to  insure  its  being  good  great  care  should  be  taken  in 
the  preparation.  First  the  flour  must  be  excellent ;  the  yeast  must 
be  fresh  (otherwise  the  bread  will  be  flat  or  sour)  ;  the  batter 
must  be  of  the  right  consistency  and  temperature  (luke  warm). 
When  the  yeast  is  ready,  put  in  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  until 
light.  The  kneading  should  be  thorough  and  just  the  proper 
amount  of  flour  used  in  stiffening.  Small  loaves  are  generally 
considered  preferable  and  should  be  quite  light  before  being  put 
in  the  oven.  The  oven  should  be  of  even  temperature  and  is  all 
important.  Bake  slow  and  the  length  of  time  according  to  the 
size  of  the  loaves.  After  baking,  leave  exposed  to  the  air  until 
thoroughly  cold.  Then  put  away  in  a  clean  stone  crock  and  keep 
covered. 

Yeast. — A  double  handful  of  hops,  one-half  dozen  large  po- 
tatoes. Boil  together  in  one-half  gallon  of  water  until  done.'  Strain 
and  mash  onto  one-half  cupful  of  ginger,  small  cup  of  flour  and 
one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  and  half  a  cup  of  salt.  Let  stand  until 
cool  then  add  one  cupful  of  good  yeast.  The  next  day  cork  up 
tight  in  a  jug. — Mrs.  Wm.  Bonnell. 

Yeast. — Take  two  good-sized  potatoes,  grate  them  raw.  Add 
one-half  teacup  of  white  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  ginger. 
Pour  over  the  mixture  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water  in  which  one 
tablespoonful  of  hops  has  been  boiled.  Save  half  a  cup  each  time 
to  start  anew. — Mrs.  Wm.  Edwards. 

Yeast  and  Bread. — Boil  six  medium-sized  potatoes  in  a  lit- 
tle more  than  three  pints  of  water.  When  done,  mash  and  add 
one  quart  of  flour  and  scald  with  the  boiling  water.  When  cool 
put  in  one  cent's  worth  of  baker's  fresh  yeast.  Stir  it  down  quite 
often  through  the  day  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  by  night. 


98  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

For  the  Bread. — Put  the  flour  into  a  wooden  bowl  as  it  will 
keep  warm  better  in  that  than  in  tin.  Take  a  quart  of  new  milk 
(if  skim  milk  is  used  it  must  be  scalded  in  summer)  and  a  tea- 
cupful  of  the  yeast.  Pour  into  the  flour  and  thicken  with  a  little 
of  it.  Wrap  the  bowl  up  in  a  woolen  blanket  and  keep  in  a  warm 
room.  Make  up  in  the  morning  as  soon  as  it  is  perfectly  light. 
Add  salt  and  knead  it  thoroughly  and  mold  over  into  the  pans. 
Be  careful  not  to  let  it  get  too  warm. — Mrs.  Sidney  Strong. 

Yeast  and  Bread. — Take  ten  large  potatoes.  Pare  and  put 
them  in  kettle  with  three  quarts  of  water.  Put  a  pint  of  hops  in 
a  thin  muslin  bag  in  the  same  kettle  with  the  potatoes.  Boil  until 
potatoes  are  soft.  Then  pour  the  water  from  this  kettle  boiling 
hot  over  a  pint  of  flour  in  a  crock.  Squeeze  all  the  strength  from 
the  hops.  Mash  the  potatoes,  add  a  quart  of  cold  water  to  them 
and  put  through  a  colander  into  the  crock  and  add  one-half  teacup 
of  salt,  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  ginger.  Let  it  stand  for 
two  days  until  it  stops  fermenting  and  settles.  Then  put  into  a 
jug,  cork  tight  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. — Mrs.  M.  Adclia  Wick. 

For  the  Bread. — Pare  and  boil  six  good-sized  potatoes,  drain 
off  the  water,  mash  fine  and  pour  over  them  about  three  pints  of 
cold  water  and  run  through  a  colander.  Add  flour  imtil  this  is 
a  thin  batter.  Then  put  in  a  coflfeecup  of  yeast  from  the  jug.  Let 
stand  until  it  rises,  then  stir  into  flour  as  much  as  you  can  with 
spoon,  and  let  rise  again.  Work  in  enough  more  flour  to  make 
as  stiff  as  bread  and  let  rise  third  time.  When  light  this  time  work 
out  into  loaves  and  let  rise.  All  the  flour  must  be  sifted. — Mrs. 
M.  A  delta  Wick. 

Yeast  and  Bread. — Two  handfuls  of  hops,  two  of  flour,  one- 
half  dozen  large  potatoes,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
ginger.  Boil  the  hops  and  potatoes  and  pour  the  hop  water  onto 
the  flour  scalding  hot.  Mix  with  the  other  ingredients.  When 
cool,  add  a  teacupful  of  yeast.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  twenty- 
four  hours. 

For  the  Bread. — Take  five  small  potatoes,  a  little  over  two 
quarts  of  water.  Boil  till  done.  Three  iron  spoonfuls  of  flour  in 
crock.  Pour  enough  of  potato  water  on  flour  to  get  all  the  lumps 
out.  Put  potatoes  through  colander  and  pour  on  remainder  of 
potato  water.  When  luke  warm  stir  in  yeast.  Wrap  up  warm 
and  rise  until  morning.     In  the  morning  put  in  a  little  salt  and 


BREAD,   YEAST  AND  ROLLS  99 

enough  flonr  to  make  still.     Knead  well  and  let  rise.    Then  knead 
again  and  make  into  loaves.    Let  rise  and  hake.— Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 

Five  Hour  Bread.— One  cake  of  Fleishman's  yeast  broken 
up  and  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  luke  warm  water.  Take 
one-half  pint  of  morning's  milk  into  which  put  one  tablespoonful 
of  salt.  Scald  with  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  when  luke  warm 
add  the  dissolved  yeast ;  then  stir  in  three  pints  of  sifted  Pittsburg 
flour  and  knead  for  fifteen  minutes.  If  this  quantity  of  flour  is 
not  sufficient  to  keep  the  dough  from  sticking  to  the  board  add  on 
the  start-out  a  little  more  flour.  The  dough  should  be  satiny  and 
full  of  bubbles  when  sufficiently  kneaded.  With  a  small  brush 
dipped  in  melted  butter  grease  the  pans;  put  in  the  dough  and 
then  go  over  that  with  the  brush.  Cover  well  first  with  towel  and 
then  with  a  flannel  blanket  and  let  stand  to  rise  three  hours  in 
temperature  of  seventy-five  degrees.  Mold  into  loaves,  kneading 
slightly.  Brush  with  butter,  set  to  rise  for  one  hour  in  same  tem- 
perature. Allow  forty-five  minutes  for  baking  bread ;  twenty-five 
minutes  for  rolls  and  biscuit.  This  recipe  makes  two  loaves  of 
bread  and  two  pans  of  biscuit. — Mrs.  Hal  stead,  Cincinnati. 

Bread  With  a  Starter.— One  large  or  two  small  potatoes 
and  all  the  water  to  pint  or  more ;  squeeze  through  ricer,  add  one 
small  handful  of  sugar,  two  of  salt,  one  pint  of  water  and  a  pint 
jar  of  starter.  Also  a  cake  of  "Yeast  Foam"  dissolved  in  a  cup 
of  warm  water.  Have  the  water  just  luke-warm  before  adding 
yeast  and  starter.  Let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  flour 
near  the  fire,  stir  up  sponge,  take  out  a  jar  full  for  next  time,  set 
sponge  on  the  stove  until  just  luke-warm,  then  add  flour  and  knead 
fifteen  minutes.  Let  that  rise  very  lig-ht  before  making  into 
loaves.  This  recipe  makes  three  loaves  of  bread  and  a  pan  of 
biscuit.  Let  the  loaves  rise  well  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  from 
three-quarters  to  one  hour. — Mrs.  P.  B.  Oiven. 

Five  Hour  Bread. — For  each  loaf :  One-half  pint  of  milk, 
one-half  pint  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  little  sugar,  one 
cake  of  compressed  yeast.  Dissolve  yeast  in  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  tepid  water.  Scald  milk  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Add  the  \yater 
and  when  mixture  is  cool,  add  dissolved  yeast,  also  salt  and  sugar. 
Stir  in  enough  flour  to  knead.  Knead  tvv^enty-five  minutes.  Set 
to  rise  about  three  hours.  When  light  make  into  loaves  and  put 
to  rise  about  one  hour.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Wm.  A. 
Smith. 


100  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Graham  Bread. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  sponge, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonfiil  of  soda.  Mix 
up  soft  and  let  rise  until  light,  not  too  long,  and  bake. — Mrs.  J.  G. 
Butler. 

Graham  Bread  (Stirred). — One  bowl  of  sponge,  one  bowl 
of  luke-warm  water,  one  scant  teacup  of  sugar,  one  level  teaspoon 
of  soda,  graham  flour  to  thicken  enough  to  drop  from  spoon.  If 
bread  sponge  has  not  been  prepared  for  white  bread,  dissolve  one- 
half  cake  of  yeast  in  luke-warm  water,  add  wheat  flour  and  warm 
water  enough  to  make  one-half  bowl ;  let  this  stand  until  bowl  is 
full. — Miss  Caddie  Boris. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — Take  three  teacups  of  corn  meal. 
Stir  into  it  two  cups  of  boiling  sweet  milk.  When  cold  add  one 
teacup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  wheat  flour  and  one  cup  of  sour 
milk.  Into  the  sour  milk  stir  well  one  teaspoon  of  soda ;  add 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Steam  three  hours. — Mrs.  C.  H. 
Gilman. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — Five  cups  of  graham  flour,  three 
cups  of  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  of  brown  sugar  wet  with  water 
and  teacup  filled  with  Orleans  molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  mix,  let  stand  ten  minutes  and  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Stewart. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of 
sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda  in  milk,  one  tgg,  butter  size  of  an  &gg, 
a  little  white  flour,  a  little  salt,  a  few  raisins  floured.  Make  a 
stiff  batter  with  graham  flour  and  steam  in  cans  for  two  hours  and 
a  half.  To  make  three  times  this  rule,  put  in  three  quart  cans  and 
set  in  steamer.  It  is  just  as  good  heated  over. — Mrs.  Ida  E. 
Canfield. 

Brown  Bread. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  baking  molasses, 
one  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  cup  of 
corn  meal,  two  cups  of  graham  flour,  three  cups  of  wheat  flour, 
salt  to  taste  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Steam  four  hours  in  .small  cans.  This  makes  four  loaves  in  one 
pound  cans. — Mrs.  M.  C.  Wick. 

Steamed  Brown  Bread. — Two  cups  of  corn  meal,  one  cup 
graham  flour,  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
molasses,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  soda.     Steam  two 


BREAD,    YEAST  AND  ROLLS  lOI 

hours  in  baking  powder  cans.    One  cup  of  raisins  may  be  added 
if  desired. — Mrs.  Frederick  G.  Evans. 

Light  Biscuit. — In  kneading  bread  set  aside  a  small  loaf  for 
biscuits.  Into  this  work  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  butter 
mixed  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  The  more  it  is  worked  the  whiter 
it  will  be.  As  it  rises  mold  it  down  twice  before  making  into 
biscuit.  Roll  out  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  The  dough  should 
be  quit  soft. — Mrs.  John  McCurdy. 

Light  Biscuit. — Take  about  as  much  dough,  after  it  is  light, 
as  would  make  a  good-sized  loaf  of  bread.  Put  in  a  pie  pan.  Mix 
in  that  a  small  cup  of  lard  and  butter,  more  lard  than  butter.  One 
tablespoon  of  fine  sugar.  Do  not  put  in  any  more  flour,  never  mind 
if  sticky.  Then  let  rise  very  light,  keeping  in  a  warm  place.  Roll 
out  about  one-half  inch  thick  without  molding.  Bake  in  rather 
quick  oven.  Will  bake  in  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.— Mr^.  M.  I. 
Arms. 

Light  Biscuit.— One  pint  of  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two 
eggs,  thre-quarters  of  a  cup  of  yeast.  Let  rise  over  night.— Mm 
Belle  Robbins.  ^^>«<444^ 

Buns. — One  cake  of  conirtM^  yeast,  one  and  one-half  cup|  of 
sugar,  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  new  milk,  scalded,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter.  Put  sugar  and  sah  into 
broken  eggs  and  beat  until  very  light;  put  in  butter,  pour  over 
the  hot  milk  and  when  mixture  is  luke-warm  add  the  yeast  dis- 
solved in  a  little  water.  Then  sift  in  flour  to  make  batter,  (about 
three  cups),  and  beat  ten  minutes.  Let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place 
about  three  hours  and  then  add  flour  to  make  dough  a  little  softer 
than  bread  and  knead  well.  After  standing  again  until  light  (about 
three  hours)  roll  out  dough  in  a  sheet,  cut  with  a  round  cutter,  press 
a  raisin  in  the  middle  of  each  clear  down  to  the  bottom.  Spread 
top  with  butter  and  sprinkle  over  a  mixture  of  cinnamon  and  sugar 
(one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  to  two  of  sugar).  Let  stand  until 
very  light  and  bake.  The  same  dough  may  be  used  for  finger 
rolls,  omitting  cinnamon  and  sugar  for  the  top.— Mr^.  /.  H.  Mc- 
Ewen. 

Potato  Biscuit.— One  cup  of  boiled  mashed  potatoes,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  Baker's  yeast,  two  eggs.  Stir  all  to- 
gether, set  to  rise  in  the  evening— next  morning  add  three-quarters 


102  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

cup  of  melted  lard,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  not  too  siff 
(indeed  rather  soft).  After  rising  light,  probably  an  hour,  cut 
lightly  off  without  farther  kneading,  make  into  small  biscuits; 
let  rise  again,  when  light  bake  in  hot  oven.  To  wash  over  with 
beaten  egg  before  baking  improves  in  appearance. — Mrs.  A.  E. 
Kauffman. 

Graham  Biscuit. — May  be  made  from  a  lof  of  the  bread  in 
the  same  way,  also,  from  the  recipe  of  sweet  rusk,  using  white 
flour  in  setting  the  sponge  over  night. — Mrs.  John  McCurdy. 

Sweet  Rusk. — One  pint  of  warm  milk,  new  is  best,  one-half 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast ;  make  a  sponge  with  milk,  yeast 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter  and  let  rise  over  night.  In 
the  morning  add  the  sugar,  butter,  eggs  and  salt,  well  beaten  up 
together  with  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  it  rise 
again,  then  make  into  round  balls  and  rise  a  third  time.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. — Mrs.  John  McCurdy. 

Tea  Rusks. — One-half  pound  of  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  of 
butter,  three  pounds  of  flour,  one  cup  of  light  yeast,  one  quart  of 
sweet  milk. — Mrs.  E.  C.  Wells. 

Rusk. — A  piece  of  dough  the  size  of  a  small  loaf ;  one  cup  of 
shortening,  two  parts  of  lard  and  one  part  of  butter ;  two  eggs ;  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  sugar.  When  ready  for  oven  spread  the 
top  lightly  with  melted  butter  and  sift  on  a  little  sugar.  Bake  a 
light  brown. — Mrs.  George  Cornell. 

French  Rolls. — One  pint  of  milk  come  to  a  boil,  one-half 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  yeast  stirred  into  a 
sponge,  when  light  knead  up  stiff,  add  one  cup  of  milk  put  in  just 
when  light,  roll  out,  cut  with  a  round  cutter,  butter  one-half  side 
and  lay  the  other  over.    Bake  fifteen  minutes. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

Parker  House  Rolls. — Scald  one  pint  of  sweet  milk ;  when 
cool  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter, 
one  cake  Fleishman's  yeast,  pinch  of  salt.  Make  up  in  the  morn- 
ing. Let  it  rise  and  then  work  up.  Let  it  rise  again,  roll  out  thin, 
cut  them  out,  butter  the  tops,  fold  it  over ;  let  rise  again  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Mason  Evans. 


BREAD,   YEAST  AND  ROLLS  IO3 

Finger  Rolls. — Take  a  small  piece  of  very  light  bread  dough 
and  roll  with  the  hand  on  molding  board  until  about  as  large 
around  as  your  finger  and  about  five  inches  long.  Lay  in  a  greased 
pan  about  one  inch  apart  and  let  rise  until  very  light  then  bake  in 
a  medium  oven. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Bread  Sticks  to  Serve  With  Soup.— Cut  bread  about  twen- 
ty-four hours  old  into  strips  six  inches  long  and  one  inch  wide. 
Place  in  a  dripping  pan  and  set  in  oven  turning  until  all  sides  are 
browed  alike — a  light  rich  brown. 

Pulled  Bread. — Take  bread  that  is  moist,  remove  all  the 
crust  and  pull  apart  in  strips  as  near  as  possible  to  two  inches 
wide  and  four  inches  long.  Place  in  a  baking  tin  and  set  in  the 
oven.    Let  stand  until  thoroughly  browned  and  hardened  through. 

Corn  Bread. — Two  cups  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  two  cups  of  sour 
milk,  pinch  of  soda,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  sugar 
and  lard  together,  add  beaten  eggs,  put  soda  in  milk;  add  milk, 
flour  and  corn  meal;  last  the  baking  powder  mixed  in  a  little  of 
the  flour  and  corn  meal. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonnell. 

Corn  Bread. — Two  cups  of  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  sour  milk,  one  &gg,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  a  little  melted  butter,  sweet  milk  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.    Bake  half  an  hour. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Corn  Bread. — Three  cups  of  corn  meal,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sweet  milk,  five  eggs,  four 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  little  sugar. — Mrs.  Mary  Bentley. 

Corn  Bread. — One  cup  of  corn  meal,  two  cups  of  flour,  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  three-fourth  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  one  cup 
of  milk,  three  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. — Mrs. 
G.  B.  Woodman. 

Corn  Bread  Without  Eggs. — Two  cups  of  corn  meal,  one 
cup  of  flour,  two  cups  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder. — Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

Fried  Bread. — To  one  pint  or  a  large  coflfee  cup  full  of  milk, 
take  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cream  tartar,  or  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  flour  enough 


104  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

to  make  a  thin  batter,  cut  dry  bread  in  very  thin  shoes,  if  the  shoes 
are  large  out  in  two  or  three  pieces,  have  hot  some  lard  or  drip- 
pings, dip  the  bread  in  the  batter  and  fry ;  when  light  brown  on 
one  side,  turn  the  other.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

Fried  Bread. — One  tablespoonful  of  sweet  light  dough,  make 
it  into  a  thin  batter  with  one  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  add  three  or  four 
eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cut  light 
bread  into  slices,  dip  them  into  the  batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  garnish  with  jelly. — Mrs.  John 
C.  Wick. 

Toast. — The  object  of  toasting  bread  is  to  extract  all  its 
moisture.  Turn  each  side  of  the  bread  to  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes 
until  warmed,  then  turn  about  the  first  side  at  some  distance  from 
the  fire,  slowly  toasting  it  until  it  is  of  a  nice  brown  color,  then 
turn  the  other  side,  moving  slowly  until  thoroughly  toasted  but 
not  burned  in  any  place.  The  coals  should  be  clear  and  hot  and  the 
toast  should  be  served  as  soon  as  done  on  a  warm  plate. — Mrs.  Geo. 
W.  Haney. 

Cream  Toast. — Place  the  cream  to  heat,  mix  a  teaspoonful 
of  flour  smoothly  with  a  little  cream,  stir  it  in  and  let  it  come 
just  to  a  boil,  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg  to  a 
quart  of  cream  and  some  salt.  Place  your  toast  on  a  deep  dish  and 
pour  your  gravy  over  it. 

Mock  Cream  Toast. — Melt  in  one  quart  of  morning's  milk 
about  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  large  teaspoonful  of  flour,  freed 
from  lumps  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  light.  Beat  these 
ingredients  together  for  several  minutes,  strain  the  cream  through 
a  fine  hair  sieve  and  when  wanted  beat  it  slowly,  beaten  constantly 
with  a  brisk  movement.  It  must  not  boil  or  it  will  curdle  and  lose 
the  appearance  of  cream.  When  hot  dip  the  toast  if  not  sufficiently 
seasoned  with  butter,  add  salt.  Send  to  the  table  hot,  the  cream 
not  taken  up  with  the  toast  but  in  a  gravy  bowl. 

Sweibach. — One  cake  of  yeast;  take  three  cups  of  flour  and 
put  in  two  cups  of  sweet  luke-warm  milk  and  a  little  salt.  Put 
this  flour,  milk  and  yeast  together  and  let  stand  two  hours  until 
raised;  then  take  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup 
of  sugar,  two  eggs;  rub  butter  and  part  of  flour  together;  flour 
enough  to  make  as  stiff  as  bread  and  work  together  well.    Raise 


BREAD,   YEAST  AND  ROLLS  10$ 

it  again  about  three  hours ;  put  in  pans  and  raise  again  about  two 
hours.  Bake  slowly  to  allow  it  to  rise  in  oven ;  then  cut  into 
small  slices  and  brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  G.  S.  Peck. 

Mush  and  Fried  Mush. — Into  boiling  water,  with  a  little 
salt,  stir  corn  meal  slowly,  sifting  it  into  the  water  a  very  little  at 
a  time,  until  it  is  about  the  consistency  of  a  batter.  Stir  it  until  it 
is  perfectly  free  from  lumps,  then  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
and  let  it  boil  slow  for  one  hour.  Eat  either  cold  or  warm  with 
milk,  or  drop  by  the  spoonful  into  hot  drippings  and  fry  brown 
on  both  sides. — Mrs.  Jonathan  Warner. 

Croutons.— Cut  bread  into  slices,  butter  it,  cut  it  into  long 
strips  then  into  squares.  Put  on  top  of  pan  in  oven  until  it 
browns.    To  serve  with  soups. 


BISCUIT  AND  HOT  CAKES 


Soda  Biscuit. — One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonf uls  of  cream 
tartar,  one  of  soda,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  and  a 
half  cups  of  sweet  milk;  mix  very  thoroughly  the  flour,  cream 
tartar,  butter  and  salt  then  add  the  milk  and  soda.  Roll  out  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  ten  minutes. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Gregory. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit. — To  one  quart  of  flour  mix  in 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  then 
rub  in  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  lard.  Stir  in  with  a 
spoon  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  as  soft  dough  as  you  can  con- 
veniently roll  out.     Bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Anns. 

Drop  Biscuit  (Soda). — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  tea- 
cupful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  in  the  milk ;  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  tartar  thoroughly  mixed  in  a  pint  of  flour,  two 
well  beaten  eggs,  a  large  teaspoonful  of  sugar ;  mix  quickly,  add- 
ing enough  flour  to  make  it  a  little  stiffer  than  cup  cake.  Bake  in 
well  buttered  gem  pans.  Make  graham  biscuit  in  the  same  way, 
using  twice  as  much  sugar  and  one-third  wheat  flour. — Mrs.  John 
McCurdy. 

Drop  Biscuit. — Rub  into  one  quart  of  flour  one-half  teacup 
of  butter,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder,  enough  sweet  milk  to  mix  with  a  spoon.  Drop  on 
buttered  pans. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Graham  Biscuit. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  flour  enough  to  make 
stiff  with  a  spoon,  baking  powder,  drop  on  buttered  tins. — Mrs. 
Mary  Bentley. 

Graham  Gems. — One  cup  of  milk  and  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
graham  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one 
spoonful  of  baking  powder. — Mrs,  G.  B.  Woodman. 


BISCUIT    AND    HOT    CAKES 


107 


Graham  Gems. — One  and  a  half  cups  of  sour  milk,  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter.  Bake  slow  — 
Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 

Muffins.— Six  eggs,  beat  whites  and  yolks  separately;  but- 
ter size  of  two  eggs;  (or  one-half  cup)  one  cup  of  sugar;  beat 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  three  cups  of  sweet  milk;  three 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  in  three  pints  of  flour.  Bake 
in  mufiin  rings. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Euzver. 

Graham  Muffins. — Two  cups  of  graham  flour,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one-third  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pawder ;  bake  in  rings  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Sidney  Strong. 

Graham  Muffins. — One  quart  of  graham  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
milk  enough  to  make  a  batter  as  thick  as  for  griddle-cakes. — Mrs. 
C.  H.  Gilman. 

White  Muffins.— One  teacup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour, 
two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  baking  powder. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Woodman. 

Muffins. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  four  cups  of  flour. — 
Mrs.  Mary  Bentley. 

Muffins. — One  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  small 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls baking  powder,  flour  to  make  stiff  batter.  Bake  in  gem 
pans. — Mrs.  S.  J.  McElevey. 

Corn  Gems. — Two  cups  of  corn  meal,  two  cups  of  flour,  two 
cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar. 
Bake  in  gem  pans. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Sally  Lunn. — Six  cups  of  flour,  six  eggs  well  beaten,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  melted  butter,  one  quart  of  milk ;  salt  to  taste. — 
Mrs.  W.  Scott  Bonnell. 


I08  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

Waffles. — Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  quart  of  milk» 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  melted ;  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  enough  flour  to  make  rather  thick 
batter. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Flannel  Rolls. — One  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  egg, 
well  beaten — this  quantity  makes  five  rolls ;  put  into  cups  one- 
quarter  inch  deep.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. — Mrs.  W. 
Scott  Bonnell. 

Flannel  Rolls. — One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  flour  to  make  a  batter  like  good  thick  cream. — 
Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonnell. 

Flannel  Cakes. — One  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  a  little  salt,  one  quart  of  flour ; 
beat  the  whites  and  stir  in  just  before  baking;  before  putting  in 
the  whites,  stir  in  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick. 

Flannel  Cakes. — Three  eggs,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  about 
one  quart  of  flour,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  baking  powder;  beat  the  yolks  and  half  of  the  milk,  salt  and 
flour  together ;  then  the  remainder  of  the  milk ;  at  last  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  well  beaten.  A  teacup  of  boiled  rice  is  an  improve- 
ment.— Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Flannel  Cakes. — One  quart  of  thick  sour  milk,  three  eggs, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  little  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter. 
Break  the  yolks  into  the  milk,  then  stir  in  the  flour;  add  the 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  milk  and  when  just  ready  to  bake  stir  in 
the  whites  well  beaten.  Do  not  stir  very  much  after  putting  in 
the  whites. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 

Griddle  Cakes. — Sift  together  two  cups  of  flour,  three  and 
one-half  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt;  beat  yolks  of  two  eggs  until  light,  add  one  and  one-fourth 
cups  of  milk,  stir  into  flour  mixture  until  perfectly  smooth.  Just 
before  baking  add  whites  of  eggs  and  one  teaspoonful  of  melted 
butter. — Mrs.  S.  J.  McElevey. 

German  Puffs. — Two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour, 
three  eggs  and  a  little  salt. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Breakfast  Puffs. — One  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  two 
eggs,  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  put 


BISCUIT    AND    HOT    CAKES  IO9 

the  flour  after  sifting  in  a  pan  and  the  butter  in  the  middle  of  the 
flour,  break  in  the  eggs  and  work  the  butter  and  eggs  thoroughly 
into  the  flour  then  gradually  add  the  milk  until  you  have  a  smooth 
batter.  Bake  them  in  French-roll  pans.  They  take  but  a  few 
minutes  to  bake. — Mrs.  R.  IV.  Tayler. 

Rice  Cakes. — One  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  boiled  rice, 
three  eggs ;  fry  on  a  griddle. — Mrs.  G.  B.  IVoodman. 

Newport  Breakfast  Cakes. — Six  eggs,  six  spoonfuls  of 
sugar,  three  pints  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  six  teaspoonfuls 
of  cream  tartar,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  soda ;  stir  stiff.  Makes  six 
loaves. — Mrs.  Wm.  Lawthers. 

PopovERS. — One  egg,  one  teacup  of  rich  sweet  milk,  one 
teacup  of  flour,  a  little  salt ;  put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  batter  in 
each  cup  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Eea  warm. — Mrs.  Wm. 
Lawthers. 

PopovERS. — One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  egg ; 
put  all  together  and  beat  for  a  long  time  with  an  tgg  beater. — Miss 
Laura  Wick. 

Long  Cake. — One  quart  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  put  this  through  a  sieve  three 
or  four  times  and  to  this  put  enough  sweet  cream  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  or  in  place  of  the  cream,  can  be  used  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  tgg  and  sweet  milk.  Mix  with  a  spoon,  roll  out  about 
an  inch  thick,  score  and  bake  in  a  dripping  pan  in  a  quick  oven  for 
a  few  minutes. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

English  Tea  Cake. — Take  a  light  bread  dough,  enough  for 
a  small  loaf,  mix  with  it  one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one  of  sugar, 
one  large  spoonful  of  currants;  let  rise  again  until  very  light; 
then  bake;  cut  into  round  slices  and  toast  them;  butter  while 
hot. — Mrs.   Wm.  Bonnell. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. — To  one  quart  of  warm  water  stir  in 
buckwheat  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  one  small  handful  of  white 
flour,  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  cup  of  good  strong  yeast;  let 
rise  over  night ;  in  the  morning  thin  the  batter  with  a  little  warm 
water  and  bake  on  a  griddle. — Miss  Belle  Robbins. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. — Three  pints  of  corn  meal,  one  pint  of 
flour,  two  eggs,  eight  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. — Kent 
House,  Chautauqua  Lake. 


no  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Wheat  Muffins.— One  quart  of  flour,  five  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  five  eggs,  milk 
enough  to  make  a  thick  batter. — Kent  House,  Chautauqua  Lake. 

Buckwheat  Cakes.— Mix  a  batter  of  buckwheat  flour  and 
warm  water  and  a  Httle  salt,  making  it  a  little  thicker  than  you 
want  it  when  ready  to  bake.  Soak  half  a  yeast  cake  for  one  hour 
in  a  half  cup  of  warm  water.  Add  this  to  the  buckwheat  batter 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  raise  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour 
all  but  about  one  teacupful  out  in  a  pan.  Take  a  good  half  cup 
of  sour  milk  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda.  Mix  together 
and  pour  in  your  pan  of  batter,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and 
bake  on  a  hot  griddle.  Batter  can  be  kept  for  a  long  time  by  leav- 
ing a  cupful  of  the  batter  to  start  with  at  night.  Do  not  pour  any 
of  the  batter  that  has  the  soda  and  sour  milk  back  in  your  vessel 
that  you  raised  them  in  as  it  would  sour  and  spoil  your  batter 
and  you  would  have  to  start  over  again  anew. — Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 

Corn  Meal  Cakes. — One-half  cup  of  corn  meal  scalded  over 
night,  with  perhaps  a  little  over  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water.  In 
the  morning  mix  in  yolk  of  egg ;  then  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder ;  a  little  white  flour  and  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  a  little 
salt.  The  last  thing  mix  in  carefully  the  white  of  an  egg. — Mrs. 
G.  S.  Peck. 

English  Muffins. — One  quart  of  water,  one  cake  of  yeast, 
a  little  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  them  raise  until  quite 
light.  Put  in  muffin  rings  set  onto  a  greased  dripping  pan,  let 
rise  again.  Bake  on  both  sides.  When  done  split,  toast  and 
butter. — Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 


PASTRY 


REMARKS. 

In  making  pastry  it  is  all  important  to  have  good  butter  and 
good  lard  and  both  must  be  chilled  until  perfectly  firm.  Pastry  is 
better  made  in  a  cool  place  and  ice  water  used  for  mixing.  Do  not 
touch  with  the  hands  until  ready  to  roll  out  and  then  as  little 
as  possible.  Use  a  knife  for  mixing.  Pastry  can  be  kept  for 
several  days  by  setting  in  a  very  cold  place.  In  baking  do  not  have 
a  hot  oven  but  bake  moderately  slow.  With  the  exception  of  mince 
pie,  all  pastry  should  be  eaten  the  day  it  is  baked.  This  will  keep 
a  week  and  then  heated  before  serving. 

Puff  Paste. — One  pound  of  flour,  five  ounces  of  flour  for  the 
board  and  rolling  pin ;  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  lard, 
two  gills  of  ice  water.  Sift  the  pound  of  flour  in  a  two-quart  bowl, 
cut  the  butter  and  lard  through  it  with  a  knife  into  pieces  about 
the  size  of  an  unshelled  almond ;  scatter  the  water  over  the  whole 
and  mix  lightly  with  the  knife.  Flour  space  on  the  board  twenty- 
four  inches  long  by  eighteen  wide.  Put  the  rough  dough  in  the 
center  of  this  space,  flour  the  pin  and  roll  the  dough  nearly  large 
enough  to  cover  the  flour.  With  a  small  sieve,  sift  a  light,  barely 
perceptible  coating  of  flour  over  the  whole  sheet.  Then  fold  it  in 
thirds  lengthwise  and  across,  making  a  piece  about  eight  inches 
long  and  seven  inches  wide.  Turn  it  over  and  put  more  flour 
under  it  and  over  the  board ;  roll  it  out  again,  sift  it  with  flour  and 
fold.  Roll  it  out  the  third  time,  sift  and  roll  lightly  in  the  form 
of  a  scroll.  Cut  it  across  the  center,  lay  it  on  a  plate  and  leave  it 
on  the  ice  for  fifteen  minutes  or  longer,  when  it  is  ready  for  use. — 
Boston  Cook  Book. 

Quick  Puff  Paste. — One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  nearly  one  cup  of  ice  water.  Have  flour 
very  cold.  Divide  the  butter  into  four  parts.  Rub  into  the  flour 
with  the  salt  (one-quarter)  or  one  part  butter;  add  water  to  make 


112  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

your  paste  mix  and  handle  lightly.  Roll  into  one  sheet  then  spread 
this  with  the  second  part  of  butter,  sprinkle  a  little  flour,  fold  over 
and  roll  again ;  spread  the  third  part  of  butter  and  proceed  as  be- 
fore; roll  over,  roll  again  and  spread  with  the  last  or  fourth 
quarter  of  butter ;  fold,  roll  and  cut  into  pieces  sufficient  to  make 
your  pie,  or  what  you  wish.  Pastry  must  be  very  cold,  it  is  best 
to  make  it  in  a  cold  room,  and  the  oven  should  be  very  hot. — Mrs. 
A.  E.  Kauffman. 

Pie  Crust. — One  pound  of  flour,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of 
shortening  (part  butter,  part  lard),  one  cup  of  cold  water,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  cut  shortening  into  flour  well  before  adding  water.  Put 
on  board,  roll,  then  fold.  Roll  and  fold  a  number  of  times.  Keep 
in  icebox  a  long  time. — Mrs.  P.  B.  Owen. 

Pastry. — To  one  cup  of  water  add  one-half  cup  of  lard,  a 
little  salt  and  some  flour.  Mix  together  with  a  knife.  When  stiff 
enough,  roll  out  on  a  board,  spread  on  with  a  knife  a  layer  of  lard 
and  sift  over  a  little  flour.  Roll  all  together  and  then  roll  out  on 
the  board  again,  repeating  this  for  three  or  four  times.  The  entire 
amount  of  lard  used  for  one  cup  of  water  should  be  about  two  cups. 
This  will  make  three  pies. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Woodman. 

Mince  Meat. — The  meat  should  be  boiled  the  day  before  it  is 
prepared  for  pies.  Boil  one  large  fresh  tongue  until  tender.  Sea- 
son when  put  on  with  one  large  spoonful  of  salt  and  one  small 
spoonful  of  pepper  ;  boil  almost  dry.  Do  not  take  off  the  skin  vmtil 
you  are  ready  to  use  it.  Boil  also  five  pounds  of  lean  beef  tender. 
Save  the  liquor  from  the  beef  (which  should  be  boiled  down  to 
about  a  pint)  and  put  in  when  mixing  three  pounds  of  suet, 
one-half  peck  of  Greening  apples  ;  chop  all  of  them  very  fine  separ- 
ately ;  then  mix  and  add  one-half  cup  of  butter  cut  fine,  a  little  salt, 
a  quart  of  Orleans  molasses,  four  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  two 
quarts  of  boiled  cider,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one 
of  cloves,  one  of  mace  and  two  nutmegs  (grated)  ;  four  pounds  of 
seeded  raisins,  three  of  currants  and  one  of  citron  (cut  fine)  ;  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  oranges,  one  pint  of  French  brandy 
and  one  pint  of  Madeira  wine. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Mince  Meat. — Two  pounds  of  lean  beef  boiled.  When  cold 
chop  fine ;  one  pound  of  suet  minced  to  a  powder,  five  pounds  of 
juicy  apples  (pared  and  chopped),  two  pounds  of  raisins  (seeded), 
two  pounds  of  sultanas  or  seedless  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants, 


PASTRY  1 1  3 

one-half  pound  of  citron  (chopped),  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cin- 
namon, two  tablespoonfuls  of  mace,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice, 
one  tablespoonful  of  fine  salt,  one  grated  nutmeg,  three  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  one-half  gallon  of  sweet  cider,  one-half  pint  of 
brandy.  Mince  meat  made  by  this  recipe  will  keep  till  spring. — 
Mrs.  C.  H.  Gilman. 

Mother's  Mince  Meat. — Six  pounds  of  meat,  two  pounds 
of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
citron,  one  pint  of  whiskey  or  brandy,  twice  as  much  apples  as 
meat.     Sweeten  to  taste.     Spices  and  cider. — Mrs.  Orrin  Jacobs. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — Pare  and  slice  a  ripe  pumpkin,  stew  gently 
until  tender  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  To  three  quarts  of  pumpkin, 
when  cold,  add  one  quart  of  rich  milk  or  one  pint  of  milk  and  one 
pint  of  cream,  ten  eggs  well  beaten,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  ground 
ginger,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  sugar  to  taste.  Bake 
slowly  one  hour. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Hitchcock. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — Four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  strained 
pumpkin,  four  level  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, one  pint  of  milk  and  cream,  two  eggs  beat  well.  This  is 
sufficient  for  one  pie. — Mrs.  R.  McCnrdy. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — Two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  boiled  pumpkin, 
one  tgg,  one-half  heaping  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one-quarter 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
milk  or  cream  to  thin  like  custard.  This  is  enough  for  one  rather 
small  pie. — Mrs.  P.  B.  Oiven. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — One  pint  of  pumpkin,  one  egg,  enough  cream 
or  new  milk  to  thin. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Ensign. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — To  two  cups  of  steamed  pumpkin  add  one 
cup  of  rich  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  eggs  beaten  very  light,  a  little 
mace,  cinnamon,  clove  and  nutm.eg. — Mrs.  G.  S.  Peck. 

Squash  Pie. — One  pint  of  stewed  squash,  five  eggs  (whites 
and  yolks  beaten  separately)  one  quart  of  milk,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful of  mace,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  ginger,  one  cup  of  white  sugar.  Beat  all  well  together. — 
Mrs.  C.  H.  Gilman 


114  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Cream  Pie. — One  pint  of  cream,  one  scant  teacup  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  whites  of  four  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiflf 
froth.  Beat  all  together  and  pour  into  a  pie  plate  lined  with 
pastry.  Bake  as  you  would  custard  pie  and  eat  very  cold. — Mrs. 
T.  H.  Wilson. 

Cream  Pie. — Sugar  one  cup,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  milk 
one-half  cupful,  flour  (measured  after  sifting)  two  cups,  eggs 
two,  baking  powder  two  teaspoonfuls,  vanilla  one-half  tea- 
spoonful. 

Custard  for  this  pie :  Milk  (boiled)  one  pint,  sugar,  one  cup, 
eggs  two,  cornstarch  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls,  vanilla  one 
teaspoonful.  When  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil  add  the  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  cold  milk ;  then  when  thick  add  the  eggs  and  sugar 
that  have  been  stirred  together.  Add  vanilla  after  taking  custard 
from  stove.     Divide  cakes  and  put  in  custard. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wick. 

Custard  Pie — For  one  pie :  Three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk, 
sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Reserve  the  whites  of  two  eggs  for 
the  top,  which  beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  sweeten  and  when  the  pie  is 
baked,  spread  on  the  top  and  put  into  the  oven  until  it  browns. — 
Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 

Apple  Custard  Pie. — Two  eggs,  four  or  five  apples  (grated), 
a  little  nutmeg,  sweeten  to  taste ;  one-half  pint  of  new  milk  or 
cream.     Pour  into  pastry. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick. 

Lemon  Pie. — Two  lemons,  juice  and  rind  grated,  two  cups 
of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream  or  rich  sweet  milk,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch  mixed  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Bake 
in  a  rich  crust,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  with  eight  table- 
spoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar.  Spread  on  the  top  of  the  pies  and 
brown.    This  will  make  two  pies. — Mrs.  Frank  Wick. 

Lemon  Pie. — Three  eggs,  one  grated  lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  water,  two  spoonfuls  of  flour.  Bake.  Beat  the 
whites  separately  and  add  sugar  (not  quite  as  much  as  for  frost- 
ing).   Put  into  the  oven  and  brown  a  little. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Matthews. 

Lemon  Pie. — Enough  for  two  pies  :  Boil  three  cups  of  sugar 
and  three  cups  of  water  as  you  would  for  frosting.  Mix  five 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  this 
into  the  boiling  syrup.  A  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  Qgg,  yolks 
of  four  eggs  beaten  light  and  stirred  into  juice  and  grated  rind 


PASTRY  115 

of  three  lemons.     Cover  the  top  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
whites. — Mrs.  IV.  S.  Bonnell. 

Lemon  Custard  Pie. — Grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon,  squeeze 
the  juice  into  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Stir 
all  together  as  for  cake  and  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  boiling  milk. 
Beat  the  whites  separately  and  stir  in  after  it  has  cooled  a  little. 
Then  bake  in  the  crust  as  you  would  a  custard  pie. — Mrs.  J.  C. 
Butler. 

Lemon  Custard  Pie. — One  grated  lemon,  four  eggs,  taking 
two  of  the  whites  for  frosting,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar, 
two  cups  of  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little 
water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  a  little  salt.  Cover 
with  the  frosting  when  partly  cool  and  return  to  the  oven  two  or 
three  minutes. — Mrs.  T.  Baldzvin. 

CocoANUT  Pie. — For  two  pies :  Beat  four  eggs  separately, 
one  quart  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  cocoanut 
(grated). — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Coco.\NUT  Pie. — Two  cocoanuts  (grated),  three  and  one- 
half  cups  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  ten 
eggs     Makes  two  pies. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Woodtnan. 

Cocoanut  Pie. — One  cocoanut  grated  in  three  pints  of  milk, 
six  eggs,  sweeten  to  taste.  This  makes  three  pies. — Mrs.  Win. 
Lawthers. 

Apple  Pie. — Fill  the  pie  crust  with  sour,  juicy  apples  pared 
and  sliced  thin.  Put  on  the  upper  crust  and  bake  until  the  apples 
are  soft.  Then  remove  the  upper  crust,  adding  sugar  to  taste,  a 
small  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Stir  this  well 
through  the  apple  and  replace  the  crust. 

Cracker  Pie. — Seven  soda  crackers  soaked  in  cold  water. 
three  pints  of  milk,  one  whole  egg  and  yolks  of  three,  two  or  three 
lemons.  Grate  the  peel  and  put  in  the  juice,  sweeten  to  taste  before 
adding  the  lemons.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar  for 
the  meringue  to  be  spread  on  and  browned  after  the  pies  are  baked. 
— Mrs.  R.  W.  Tayler. 

Peach  Pie  or  Coddle. — Line  a  deep  dish  with  soda  biscuit 
dough  or  pie  crust  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick.    Fill  with  peaches 


Il6  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

pared,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  little  flour,  and  if  not  too  juicy 
add  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Put  on  the  upper  crust, 
secure  the  edges  and  bake.  Eat  with  cream. — Mrs.  Jonathan 
Warner. 

Rhubarb  Pie. — Peel  the  stalks  and  cut  into  pieces  one-half 
inch  long.  Let  stand  in  cold  water  for  one  hour.  Then  drain 
off  the  water,  mix  well  with  sugar  (one  cup  of  sugar  to  a  pie)  and 
let  stand  for  a  short  time.  Bake  between  two  crusts. — Mrs.  M. 
I.  Arms. 

Cherry  or  Berry  Pie. — Stone  the  cherries,  fill  into  the  crust, 
add  sugar  to  taste  and  a  little  flour.  Put  on  top  crust  and  bake. 
Berry  pie  the  same. 

Delicate  Pie. — Stew  the  apples  sufificient  for  four  pies,  one- 
half  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  pound  of 
sugar.  Flavor  with  lemons,  the  apples  being  quite  cold  before 
adding  the  eggs.    Bake  as  a  tart  pie. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Raisin  Pie. — One  lemon,  juice  and  yellow  rind,  one  cup  of 
raisins,  one  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of  rolled  crackers.  Stone  the 
raisins  and  boil  in  water  to  soften  them. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Tayler. 

A  Tart  Pie. — Line  a  pie  pan  with  pastry.  Put  into  this  rich 
apple  or  peach  butter.  Cut  thin  strips  of  pastry  and  lay  across  the 
top  about  an  inch  apart.    Then  bake. 

Tarts. — Use  the  best  of  puff  paste.  Roll  it  out  a  little  thicker 
than  for  pie  crust  and  cut  with  a  large  biscuit  cutter  twice  as  many 
as  you  intend  to  have  of  tarts.  Then  cut  out  of  half  of  them  a 
small  round  in  the  center  of  which  will  leave  a  circular  rim  of  crust. 
Lift  this  up  carefully  and  lay  on  the  large  pieces.  Bake  in  patty 
pans  and  fill  with  any  kind  of  preserves,  jam  or  jelly. 

Cheese  Cakes. — Take  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  six 
ounces  of  sugar,  two  lemons,  four  eggs  and  two  good  sized  cold 
potatoes.  Rub  the  sugar  on  the  lemons  before  you  cut  them  and 
rub  off  as  much  as  you  can  of  the  yellow  rind.  Then  melt  the 
butter  in  a  basin  in  the  oven.  Throw  sugar  into  the  hot  butter 
which  will  dissolve  it.  Get  it  smooth  with  a  spoon,  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  the  two  lemons,  beat  the  eggs  and  mix  in  and  add  enough 
cold  potatoes  to  make  the  whole  into  a  pulp,  only  do  not  add  the 


PASTRY  117 

potatoes  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Roll  out  some 
good  pastry  and  put  into  patty  pans.  Then  fill  with  this  mixture 
and  bake  in  the  oven. 

Lady  Locks. — Roll  puff  pastry,  and  cut  into  strips  about  eight 
inches  long  and  one  inch  wide ;  fold  this  strip  around  a  tin  mold 
shaped  like  a  horn ;  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Filling. — One  pint  cream,  one-fourth  box  of  gelatine,  about 
two  tablespoonfuls  sugar  (or  to  taste),  and  flavor.  Whip  cream, 
add  dissolved  gelatine,  sugar  and  flavoring,  let  stand  until  chilled 
— when  it  is  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Kauffmann. 


PUDDINGS 


Plum  Pudding. — One  pound  of  raisins  (stoned),  one  pound 
of  currants  washed  and  dried ;  one  pound  of  rich  beef  suet  minced, 
one  pound  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  one  pound  of  flour.  Mix  the 
bread  crumbs,  flour  and  suet  together.  Beat  six  eggs  well  and 
add  to  them  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  the  milk. 
Beat  the  eggs  and  milk  with  the  suet  and  flour  for  some  time. 
Then  stir  in  the  currants  and  raisins,  mixed  in  well  as  you  pro- 
ceed. Mix  in  also  one-quarter  pound  of  candied  orange  and  lemon 
peel  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  ounce  of  powdered  cinnamon,  one- 
half  ounce  of  powdered  ginger,  one  grated  nutmeg  and  a  little 
salt.  Add  a  glass  of  rum  or  brandy.  Either  bake  or  boil  according 
to  taste.  Bake  nearly  two  hours.  If  boiled,  pour  into  a  cloth,  tie 
the  cloth  allowing  a  little  room  to  swell,  and  boil  for  six  hours.  It 
is  better  boiled.    Serve  with  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  C.  Wells. 

English  Plum  Pudding. — One  pound  of  currants  and  one 
pound  of  raisins ;  dredge  with  flour ;  one-half  pound  of  beef  suet 
and  one  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  one-quarter  pound  of  citron,  eight 
eggs,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  a  gill  of  wine,  or  brandy,  a  large  cup 
of  brown  sugar  and  one  of  molasses ;  mace  and  nutmeg  to  your 
taste.  It  requires  six  or  seven  hours  to  boil.  Turn  it  several  times. 
Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  and  put  in  the  last  thing.  Use  currants 
if  you  like  them. — Mrs.  Win.  Bonnell. 

English  Plum  Pudding. — One  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  one 
cup  raisins,  one  cup  currants,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour, 
two  measures  even  full  of  baking  powder.  Scald  the  bag  before 
putting  in  the  pudding  and  tie  quite  loose.  Steam  three  hours. 
Dressing :  One  pint  of  water  thickened  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
corn  starch,  one  cup  of  sugar  rubbed  into  one-half  cup  of  butter, 
one  tgg;  flavor  with  brandy. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Euwer. 

Plum  Pudding. — One  pound  of  suet  chopped  fine,  one  pound 
of  raisins  (stoned),  one  pound  of  currants,  one  small  loaf  of  bread 


PUDDINGS  119 

(crumbed),  ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  nutmeg,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  a  little  salt,  a  wine  glass  of  brandy.  Should 
be  very  thick.  Mix  in  one-half  pint  of  milk,  add  more  if  needed ; 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon.  Boil  eight  hours. — Mrs.  Win. 
Lazvthers. 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding. — Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  white 
sugar,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of 
citron,  one  pound  of  suet  (light  weight),  one  loaf  of  baker's  bread 
(grated),  one  pint  of  sweet  cream,  one  lemon  grated  and  juice, 
one-half  nutmeg  (grated),  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  one  wine- 
glass of  brandy,  one  wine  glass  of  wine,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sifted  flour.  Mix  in  the  order  written.  Boil  eight  hours  turning 
frequently.  It  can  be  boiled  the  day  before  it  is  needed  and 
steamed  when  wanted.    Serve  with  wine  sauce — M. 

Fig  or  Date  Pudding. — Two  pounds  of  fruit,  six  ounces  of 
bread  crumbs,  six  ounces  of  suet  chopped  fine,  six  ounces  of  sugar, 
three  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  spices  to  taste,  one 
wine  glass  of  brandy.  Add  the  fruit,  suet,  bread  crumbs  and 
whites  beaten  to  a  froth.  Steam  fully  two  hours.  Eat  with  date 
pudding  sauce. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 

Date  Pudding. — Three  eggs,  one  and  one-quarter  cups  of 
sugar,  three  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one 
pound  of  seeded  dates  (chopped  fine),  one  wine  glass  full  of  water, 
one  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  and  steam  three  hours.  Dressing:  One 
cup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  two  cups  of  water,  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour.  Cook  and  flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  J.  C. 
Crew. 

Prune  Pudding. — Stew  half  a  pound  of  prunes  until  soft ; 
press  through  a  colander  and  add  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  the 
whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  very  stiff.  Put  into  a  dish  and  brown 
in  the  oven.     Serve  at  once  with  cream. — Mrs.  H.  IV.  Ford. 

Prune  Pudding. — One  cup  of  prunes  chopped  fine,  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs.  Mix  eggs  and  prunes  to- 
gether. Bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  G.  S. 
Peck. 

Prune,  Date  or  Fig  Souffle. — Twelve  large  prunes,  whites 
of  five  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  flour.    Cook 


120  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

the  prunes  and  chop  fine.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff. 
Stir  into  them  sugar,  through  which  the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar 
have  been  sifted.  Add  prunes,  put  into  a  mold,  set  in  a  pan  of 
water  and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  for  twenty-two  minutes.  Serve 
with  an  egg  custard  sauce.  Figs  or  dates  can  be  used  in  place  of 
the  prunes. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick,  Elyria. 

Revere  House  Pudding. — One  cup  of  raisins  (seeded  and 
chopped),  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  one  cup 
of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  three  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  dark  spice. 
Steam  three  hours  and  serve  hot  with  sauce. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Gilman. 

Plain  Currant  Pudding. — One  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  one  pint  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  of  Zante 
currants  well  washed  and  dried.  Bake,  then  spread  the  top  with 
butter  and  sprinkle  with  ground  cinnamon.  Serve  hot  with  wine 
sauce. — Miss  Jennie  Arms. 

Wedding  Cake  Pudding. — Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  molasses, 
one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one  of  cream  or  of  suet  chopped  fine, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
salt.     Steam  three  hours. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Gregory. 

Molasses  Pudding. — One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour 
milk,  one  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  a  little  clove,  allspice  and  cinnamon.  Enough  flour  to 
stiffen.     Steam  one  and  one-half  hours. — Mrs.   W.  J.  Lawthers. 

Suet  Pudding. — One  teacupful  of  molasses,  one  of  suet,  one 
of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  raisins,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  allspice,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda.  Boil  or  steam.  Make  sauce  same  as  for  plum  pudding. — 
Mrs.  W.  J.  Lawthers. 

Suet  Pudding. — One  cup  of  chopped  beef  suet,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  egg,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  and  three-fourths  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix 
well  and  steam  two  hours.  One  cup  of  raisins.  Serve  with 
liquid  sauce  flavored  with  nutmeg. — Mrs.  Wni  Edzvards. 


PUDDINGS  121 

Suet  Pudding. — Three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
suet,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  currants,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  egg.  Steam  four  hours. 
The  sauce  is  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Flavor  with 
nutmeg  and  brandy.  When  cold,  stir  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg 
in. — Mrs.  Orrin  Jacobs. 

Suet  Pudding. — One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  chopped 
suet,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  raisins,  two  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup 
of  chopped  English  walnuts,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix  to- 
gether, put  in  dish  and  steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  egg  sauce. 
—Mrs.  H.  W.  Ford. 

Graham  Pudding. — Two  cups  of  graham  flour,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one-quarter  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  milk  and  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda  or  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one- 
half  cup  of  English  currants.  Steam  two  to  two  and  one-half 
hours.    Serve  with  hot  sauce. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Hudnut. 

Graham  Pudding. — One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, one  cup  of  fruit,  two  cups  of  graham  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  soda.  Steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce. — Mrs.  E. 
L.  Kanengeiser. 

Blackberry  Pudding. — Butter  and  lard  together  the  size  of 
an  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg.  Beat  sugar,  butter,  lard  and 
egg  together.  One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.    Stir  thick  with  berries. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 

Raspberry  Pudding. — To  one  quart  of  flour  take  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  a  little  salt  with  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  milk  enough  to 
stiffen  about  as  stiff  as  biscuit.  Roll  out  and  spread  on  raspberry 
jam.  Roll  up,  wrap  in  a  cloth  and  steam  two  or  three  hours.  To 
be  eaten  with  sugar  and  cream. — Miss  Kate  Arms. 

Honeycomb  Pudding. — One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  heaping  cupful  of  flour, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three  eggs 
beaten  separately;  beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  gently 
just  before  putting  in  the  molds.  Put  into  individual  molds  and 
steam.    Serve  with  cream. — Miss  C.  Boris. 


122  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Buckeye  Pudding. — One  cup  of  raisins  well  floured,  one  cup 
of  molasses,  one  cup  of  warm  water,  two  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  one  desert  spoonful  of  soda  (level),  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Steam  two  hours  and  serve  with  hard  sauce  or  brandy  sauce.  This 
pudding  can  be  steamed  as  often  as  desired  or  until  it  is  all  used 
up. — Mrs.  R.  D.  Gibson. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  twelve  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  bread  crumbs,  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate,  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs.  Put  the  milk  and  bread  crumbs  on  the  fire,  let  them 
get  moderately  warm.  Beat  sugar,  yolks  and  chocolate  and  stir 
them  into  the  milk.  One  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch.  Let  it  get 
boiling  hot,  then  turn  in  a  dish  with  the  whites  beaten  with  sugar 
on  top  and  bake  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Butler. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — One  egg,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  on^ 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
two  squares  of  melted  chocolate,  two  teaspoon fuls  of  cream  of 
tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  butter,  sugar 
and  well  beaten  eggs  together.  Add  the  milk,  then  the  flour  into 
which  has  been  sifted  the  cream  of  tartar,  then  the  melted  choco- 
late. Then  add  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  milk — which 
should  be  saved  from  the  cupful.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  buttered 
mold  or  pail  with  a  tight  cover  and  place  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
Keep  the  kettle  boiling  two  hours. 

Sauce. — One  cup  of  cream  whipped ;  add  one  well  beaten 
egg,  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar;  flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  W.  J. 
Sampson. 

Apple  or  Peach  Pudding. — Pare  and  quarter  fine  sour  ap- 
ples and  half  fill  a  gallon  crock  with  them.  Take  light  bread 
dough,  roll  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  small  places  for  the  air  to 
escape  and  spread  over  the  apples  as  you  would  an  upper  crust 
for  a  pie.  Cover  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  let  it  cook 
slowly  for  a  short  time.  Then  move  it  forward,  cooking  in  all 
about  one-half  hour.  Eat  with  sugar  and  cream.  Peaches  can 
be  used  in  the  same  manner. — Mrs.  M.  Adelia  Wick. 

Apple  Pudding. — Two  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  milk,  four 
eggs  beaten  separately ;  pare  and  core  enough  apples  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pudding  dish.  Bake  a  little  and  pour  the  batter  over 
them  and  bake  again.  Serve  with  pudding  sauce. — Mrs.  Mary 
Bent  ley. 


PUDDINGS  123 

Apple  and  Bread  Pudding. — Put  a  layer  of  buttered  bread 
on  the  bottom  of  a  well  buttered  dish  with  chopped  apples,  sugar 
and  grated  bread  and  butter.  Fill  up  with  alternate  layers. — Mrs. 
John  Morris. 

Apple  Sago  Pudding. — Put  the  fruit  into  a  pan  either  whole 
or  in  quarters.  Sprinkle  three  or  more  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
sago  over  the  top.  Fill  with  water  and  bake  until  the  apples  are 
done. — Mrs.  Wm.  J.  Hitchcock. 

Sago  Pudding. — Two  large  spoonfuls  of  sago  or  tapioca 
boiled  in  one  quart  of  water.  The  peel  of  one  lemon,  a  little  nut- 
meg. When  cold,  add  four  eggs  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  about  one 
hour  and  a  half.    Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Orange  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  three  eggs,  two  desert 
spoonfuls  of  corn  starch.  Use  the  yolks,  corn  starch  and  milk  and 
make  a  boiled  custard.  Let  it  stand  until  cold.  Pare  and  slice 
four  oranges  in  a  dish  with  two  cups  of  sugar.  Pour  the  custard 
over  the  orange,  stir  all  together ;  then  put  the  whites,  well  beaten 
with  a  little  sugar,  on  the  top  of  the  whole.  Set  in  the  oven  for 
a  few  moments  to  brown  and  let  get  very  cold  before  serving. — 
Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 

Orange  Pudding. — One-half  box  gelatine,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  cream,  juice  of  four 
oranges.  Dissolve  sugar  in  juice,  add  gelatine  (previously 
melted),  let  stand  until  stiff.  Then  add  cream  beaten  stiff.  Beat 
all  together  for  five  minutes  and  put  into  a  mold. — Mrs.  H.  B. 
Wick,  Elyria. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — Take  ten  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca,  wash 
it  in  warm  water,  drain  off  the  water  and  put  the  tapioca  in  a  pan 
with  a  quart  of  rich  milk.  Set  the  pan  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  and  stir  it  until  it  thickens ;  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  six  of  white  sugar,  one  lemon  (grated),  or  flavor  to  taste 
with  good  lemon  or  vanilla  extract.  Remove  the  pan  from  the 
fire  and  having  beaten  four  eggs  very  light,  stir  them  into  the 
mixture.  Pour  it  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  Serve  with  rich  cream  or  custard  sauce. — Mrs.  T. 
Baldwin. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — One  cup  of  tapioca,  soak  on  the  back  of 
the  stove  two  hours  in  one  quart  of  water.    Butter  a  pudding  dish 


124  THE    YOUNGSTOVVN    COOK    BOOK 

well  and  line  the  bottom  with  pared  and  cored  apples.  Season  the 
tapioca  with  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  a  very  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg, 
and  salt.  Pour  it  over  the  apples  and  bake  until  the  apples  are 
thoroughly  done.  Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. — Mrs.  E.  S. 
Gregory. 

Cracker  Pudding. — One  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  one  quart 
of  milk,  five  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.  Serve  with  sauce  for  cracker  pudding. — Miss 
Maria  Wells. 

Batter  Pudding. — One  pint  of  milk,  three  and  one-half  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  three  eggs  beaten  separately.  Make  a  batter 
of  flour,  milk  and  salt ;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  and  then  the  whites 
very  gently  and  slowly,  leaving  the  greater  part  on  top.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Serve  with  rich  sauce. — 
Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

Cake  Pudding. — Two  cups  of  sour  milk ;  put  first  into  a  dish, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Beat  this  to- 
gether, stir  thick  with  cake  crumbs.  If  not  fruit  cake,  add  any  kind 
of  fruit.    Steam.    Eat  with  wine  sauce. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 

Cottage  Pudding. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  one 
^^^>  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  pint  of  flour,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Serve  with  wine 
or  brandy  sauce, — Mrs.  E.  S.  Gregory. 

Canary  Pudding. — Three  eggs,  the  weight  of  the  eggs  in 
butter  and  sugar,  the  weight  of  two  eggs  in  flour.  Bake.  Eat  with 
cream. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonnell. 

Delmonico  Pudding. — Sitr  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch  into  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  let  it  boil  two  minutes. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  flavor 
and  stir  in  the  corn  starch.  Put  the  whole  in  a  dish  and  bake  it. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  stir  into  them  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  and  when  nicely  done,  spread  on  the  top  and  bake  a  light 
brown. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Butler. 

Corn  Starch  Pudding. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch, 
four  eggs.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stifif  froth.  Boil  the  milk,  add  corn 
starch.  When  it  thickens,  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  well  beaten  stirring  very  hard.  Pour  into  a  mold  and  set 
away  to  get  cold.    Take  one  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 


PUDDINGS  ^25 

and  make  a  soft  custard,  add  sugar  and  flavor  to  taste.    Pour  over 
the  pudding  when  served. — Mrs.  M.  C.  Wick. 

Green  Corn  Pudding.— Use  the  same  as  for  vegetable  pud- 
ding, adding  a  large  teacupful  of  sugar  and  eat  with  liquid  sauce. 
— Mrs.  John  McCurdy. 

A  Good  Plain  Pudding.— Cover  the  bottom  of  a  covered  pud- 
ding dish  with  pieces  of  bread  soaked  in  milk ;  then  a  layer  of 
chopped  apples  or  berries ;  add  sugar  and  spice  if  liked.  Proceed 
till  the  dish  is  full,  having  bread  at  the  top.  Moisten  all  well  with 
milk  and  bake  three  hours  closely  covered.— Mr^.  John  McCurdy. 
Almond  Pudding.— Turn  boiling  water  onto  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds.  Let  it  remain  until  the  skin  comes 
off  easily.  Rub  with  a  dry  cloth.  When  dry,  pound  fine  with 
one  large  spoonful  of  rose-water.  Beat  six  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
with  three  spoonfuls  of  fine,  white  sugar.  Mix  with  one  quart 
of  milk  three  spoonfuls  of  pounded  crackers,  four  ounces  of 
melted  butter  and  the  same  of  citron  cut  into  bits.  Add  almonds, 
stir  all  together  and  bake  in  a  small  pudding  dish  with  a  lining  and 
rim  of  pastry.  This  pudding  is  best  when  cold.  It  will  bake  in 
half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven.— Af  r.y.  G.  W.  Haney. 

Delicious  Pudding.— Bake  a  common  sponge  cake  in  a  flat 
bottomed  pudding  dish.  When  ready  for  use,  cut  into  six  or  eight 
pieces,  split  and  spread  with  butter  and  return  them  to  the  dish. 
Make  a  custard  with  four  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk,  flavor  and 
sweeten  to  taste.  Pour  over  the  cake  and  bake  one-half  hour.  The 
cake  will  swell  and  fill  the  custard.— Afr^.  Frank  Wick. 

Rice  Pudding  Without  Eggs. — One  small  teacupful  of  rice, 
one  quart  of  milk,  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  grated  nutmeg.  Bake  for  two  hours,  stirring  often.— Mm  Laura 
Wick. 

Rice  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  one  pinch  of  salt,  small 
one-half  cup  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  small  one-half  cup 
of  rice.  Nutmeg  and  raisins  in  when  half  done.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  one  and  one-half  or  two  hours. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Ozvcn. 

Steamed  Rice.— One-half  pint  of  rice,  one  quart  of  new 
milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter.  ^  Pick 
the  rice  and  wash,  then  add  one-half  the  milk  and  place  within  the 
steamer  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.    Stir  often  so  that  the  nee 


126 


THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 


will  be  evenly  swollen  and  when  the  milk  is  all  absorbed,  add  the 
remainder.  Steam  one  hour.  When  done,  add  salt  and  butter  and 
dress  with  sugar  and  cream,  when  nice  as  dessert.  In  cooking,  use 
a  new,  bright  pan  or  porcelain  dish  to  preserve  the  whiteness  of 
the  rice. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Haney. 

Rice. — One  pint  of  rice  well  cleaned,  three  quarts  of  cold 
water,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Let  the  water  come  to  a  boil, 
put  in  the  rice  and  boil  it  fast  twenty  minutes.  Then  with  a  per- 
forated dipper,  dip  it  into  a  farina  kettle  (double)  containing  a 
pint  of  rich,  sweet  milk.  Let  it  simmer  until  needed. — Mrs.  John 
Mc  Curdy. 

Boiled  Rice. — One  cup  of  rice  washed,  one  small  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  quart  of  boiling  water.  Cook  in  double  boiler  rapidly 
for  twenty  minutes.  Pour  off  all  the  water,  cover  tightly  and  re- 
turn to  fire  and  cook  twenty  minutes  longer.  The  water  in  under 
boiler  must  boil  rapidly  all  the  time.  Rice  cooked  in  this  way  will 
have  every  grain  separate. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 

Snow  Pudding. — Dissolve  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  one 
pint  of  cold  water.  When  soft,  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  two  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar,  whites  of  five  eggs  well  beaten.  Let  it  stand  until  cold  and 
commences  to  jell,  then  beat  in  the  whites  of  eggs.  Sauce:  One 
quart  of  rich  milk,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  with  two  extra  eggs 
added.  Add  one-half  cup  sugar  and  flavor  with  vanilla. — Miss 
Laura  Wick. 

Brown  Betty. — Grease  a  pudding  dish.  Put  into  this  a  layer 
of  nice  cooked  apples  (sliced),  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  with 
sugar  sprinkled  over  and  small  bits  of  butter.  For  three  apples 
use  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  on  top. 
Bake.    It  is  nice  either  with  or  without  cream. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. — One  quart  of  flour,  one  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder,  one  pint  of  milk,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Bake  in  deep  jelly  cake  or  pie  pans.  Split  the  cakes  and  between 
the  layers  spread  the  strawberries,  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Eat  with 
cream.  Other  berrier  or  peaches  sliced  and  put  between  the  layers 
are  nice. — Mrs.  Mason  Evans. 


PUDDINGS  127 

Orange,  Peach  or  Strawberry  Shortcake. — One-third  of 
a  cup  of  butter,  one  small  cup  (teacup)  of  sugar,  three  eggs  beaten 
separately,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  milk,  one  heaping  teacup  of 
flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Stir  butter  and 
sugar  together  until  light ;  then  add  yolks  of  eggs,  then  milk,  then 
flour  with  baking  powder  and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs.  Bake 
about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  not  too  hot  an  oven.  Bake  in  two 
layers  and  spread  between  and  on  the  top  the  following :  Six  to 
eight  large  and  nice  oranges  quartered  and  cut,  two  cups  of  sugar ; 
put  sugar  over  the  oranges  and  let  stand.  When  cake  is  hot. 
spread  as  directed  above. — Boston  Cooking  School  Magazine. 

Excellent  Baked  Apples. — Take  ten  or  twelve  good  sized 
juicy  apples,  pare  and  core.  Butter  a  baking  dish  and  put  in  it 
the  apples.  Fill  these  cavities  with  sugar.  Take  a  half  teacupful 
of  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  rub  together  until  smooth. 
To  this  put  enough  boiling  water  to  make  it  thin  enough  to  cover 
each  apple.  Grate  over  them  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  one 
hour  or  more.  Can  be  eaten  with  meat  or  used  as  a  dessert  with 
cream.— il/r^.  R.  McMillan. 

Blushing  Apples. — Eight  large  red  apples ;  core  and  boil 
tender.  Remove  skin,  if  necessary,  scraping  the  red  from  skin  and 
coating  them.  Pour  over  them  orange  sauce  and  whipped  cream, 
if  you  have  it.  Orange  sauce  is  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-third  of  a 
cup  of  water.  Add  juice  of  two  oranges,  strain,  cook  four  or  five 
minutes. — Mrs.  R.  McCurdy. 

Cherry  Puffs. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
chopped  fruit.  Steam  one-half  hour  in  cups  one-half  full.  Sauce  : 
Use  the  juice  from  one  bottle  of  canned  cherries,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch.  Mix  corn 
starch  with  a  little  of  the  juice  and  stir  into  the  remainder  of  the 
juice  and  butter.  Cook  for  a  short  time. — Mrs.  Riddle, 
Saranac  Inn. 

Raisin  Puffs. — One-half  teacup  of  sugar,  one-half  teacup  of 
milk,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  flour  enough  so  that  the  batter  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Stir 
in  a  cup  of  seeded  and  chopped  raisins.  Butter  teacups  and  fill 
half  full  of  the  batter.    Set  the  cups  in  a  steamer,  put  on  the  cover 


128  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

and  steam  one  hour.    This  will  make  six  or  seven  ciipfiils. — Mrs. 
G.  S.  Peck. 

Peach  Gateaux. — Scoop  out  the  center  of  a  medium  sized 
sponge  cake.  Fill  with  sliced  peaches  mixed  with  pulverized  sugar 
to  taste.  Cover  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
sherry. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Sampson. 

Peach  Meringue. — Put  on  to  boil  a  scant  quart  of  new  milk, 
omitting  half  a  teacupful,  with  which  to  moisten  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  corn  starch.  When  the  milk  boils,  add  corn  starch,  stir 
constantly  and  when  it  commences  to  thicken  remove  from  the  fire. 
Add  one  tablespoonful  of  perfectly  sweet  butter,  let  cool ;  then  beat 
in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  until  the  custard  seems  light  and  creamy. 
Add  one-half  teacupful  of  fine  sugar.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  well 
buttered  baking  dish  with  ripe  juicy  peaches  that  have  been  pared, 
stoned  and  halved.  Sprinkle  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  over  the 
fruit.  Pour  the  custard  over  gently  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
twenty  minutes.  Draw  it  out  and  cover  with  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  the  three  eggs.  Sprinkle  a  little  fine  sugar  over  the  top 
and  set  in  the  oven  until  browned.  Eat  warm  with  sauce  or  cold 
with  cream. 

Jim  Crow. — Put  New  Orleans  molasses  in  a  fryingpan  and 
let  it  boil  until  thickened — when  it  should  be  half  an  inch  deep. 
Slice  bread  as  for  the  table,  remove  the  crust  and  cut  into  squares 
or  oblong  pieces.  Butter  and  lay  them  in  the  boiling  molasses  and 
let  them  become  crisp.  Take  them  from  the  syrup,  pile  on  a  platter 
and  serve  hot.     Spanish  dish. 

Indian  Pudding. — Made  of  Rhode  Island  or  Southern  white 
meal.  Butter  a  deep  pudding  dish.  One  cup  of  meal,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  scalded  milk  poured  hot  onto  the 
meal,  three  pints  of  cold  milk.  Mix  well  and  add  one  cup  of  cold 
water,  then  don't  stir.     Bake  slowly  four  hours. — Mrs.  Aiken. 

Peach  Pudding. — Pare  the  peaches,  then  stew  them  whole  in 
a  rich  syrup  until  tender.  Place  the  peaches  in  a  baking  dish 
pouring  over  them  the  syrup.  Cover  with  a  crust  made  of  bread 
dough  rolled  out  thin  (which  has  stood  until  quite  light),  then 
let  it  rise  again  and  bake.  Serve  hot  with  sugar  and  cream. — Mrs. 
Henry  Wick. 


PUDDING  SAUCES 


Pudding  Sauce.— Rub  well  together  until  light  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  light  brown  sugar  and  two  ounces  of  butter ;  stir  into 
a  teacup  of  boiling  water  quickly  and  well  until  it  is  dissolved ;  add 
a  wine  glass  of  wine  and  brandy  mixed.  On  no  account  omit 
stirring  constantly  until  well  dissolved  or  it  will  lose  its  lightness. 
Add  grated  nutmeg  to  taste.    Serve  hot. 

Pudding  Sauce. — One  cup  of  sugar,  the  yolk  of  one  egg  well 
beaten  with  the  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  milk.  Add 
the  whites  well  beaten. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Pudding  Sauce. — Rub  to  a  cream  two  cups  of  sugar  with 
three-fourts  of  a  cup  of  butter,  flavor  to  taste.  Float  the  dish  in 
boiling  water  until  well  heated.  Pour  one-half  pint  of  boiling 
water  on  it  just  before  serving. — Mrs.  J.  J.  Murray. 

Sauce  for  Date  or  Fig  Pudding. — Three  eggs  beaten 
separately.  Add  to  the  yolks  enough  granulated  sugar  to  make 
them  thick ;  add  the  beaten  whites  and  a  wine  glass  of  brandy. — 
Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 

Sauce  for  Cracker  Pudding.— One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  teacpoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  one 
lemon  (outside  grated),  three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water.— 
Miss  Maria  Wells. 

Pudding  Sauce. — Yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  very  stiff.  Add 
one  cup  of  pulverized  sugar  and  a  little  brandy  or  whiskey ;  then 
beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  very  stiff  and  fold  into  the  yolks 
just  before  serving. — Mrs.  F.  G.  Evans. 

Montrose  Sauce. — One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  gelatine, 
one-fourth  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  pint  of  cream,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cover  the  gelatine  with  a 
little  cold  water  and  soak  one-half  hour.  Put  the  cream  to  boil  in 
a  double  boiler.     Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  light.    Add 


130  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

to  boiling  cream  and  stir  until  it  thickens  (about  one  minute),  add 
the  gelatine,  stir  until  dissolved,  take  from  the  fire  and  add  vanilla 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy  and  four  of  sherry.  Stand  in 
a  cold  place. — Miss  Frank  Jones,  Toledo. 

Chocolate  Sauce. — One  pint  of  cream  whipped.  Add  beaten 
whites  of  three  eggs.  To  be  used  for  chocolate  pudding  or  on  top 
of  soup. — Mrs.  G.  S.  Peck. 

Dumpling  Sauce. — Mix  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  with 
three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter.  Stir  into  it  three-fourths  of  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  add  one  cup  of  maple  sugar.  Let  it  cool 
and  flavor  with  one  tablespoonful  of  good  vinegar. — Mrs.  J.  J. 
Murray. 

Lemon  Sauce. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch.  Beat  the  eggs 
and  sugar  until  light.  Add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Stir  the  whole  into  three  gills  of  boiling  water  until  it  thickens 
sufficiently  for  the  table. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Tayler. 

Lemon  Sauce. — One  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  small 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
one  lemon. — Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

Wine  Sauce. — One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  wine 
glass  of  wine.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  nutmeg 
to  taste.  Pour  the  wine  over  it,  set  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  warm 
water  and  do  not  stir  it  at  all. — Mrs.  T.  H.  Wilson. 

Sherry  Sauce. — Rub  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  fine  sugar  and 
one-half  cup  of  butter  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Add  one-half 
pint  of  brown  sherry. 

Cottage  Pudding  Sauce. — To  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
put  one  of  flour  and  two  of  butter  and  stir  to  a  cream.  Then  pour 
over  it  nearly  a  pint  of  boiling  water  stirring  very  fast.  Add 
extract  of  vanilla  or  lemon.  If  you  wish  extra  nice,  add  the 
beaten  white  of  one  egg. — Mrs.  Wm.  Lawthers. 

Syrup  of  Roses. — Make  a  strong  syrup  of  white  sugar,  throw 
in  two  handfuls  of  rose  leaves.  Give  it  a  good  boil,  strain  when 
half  cool.    Eat  with  buns,  fritters,  etc. 


PUDDING  SAUCES  I3I 

Cake  Pudding  Sauce. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg  and  two  eggs.  Stir  butter,  sugar  and  yolks  to- 
gether. Whites  well  beaten  stirred  in  the  last  thing. — Mrs.  W. 
S.  Bonnell. 

Hard  Sauce. — Cream  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  &gg, 
add  powdered  sugar  and  beat  with  a  spoon  until  it  is  thick  and 
light.  Then  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  beat  again.  If  it  is 
not  stifiF  enough,  add  more  sugar.  When  done,  it  shall  be  stiff 
enough  to  heap  in  a  pile  upon  a  dish. — Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 


FRITTERS  AND  DUMPLINGS 


Fritters. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  five  eggs  beaten  separ- 
ately, one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Make  about  as  thick  as  flannel 
cakes.  Drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  in  boiling  lard. — Mrs.  C.  D. 
Arms. 

Fritters. — Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  into  boiling  lard  and  eat  hot 
with  syrup  or  sweetened  cream. — Mrs.  IV.  S.  Lazvthers. 

Fritters. — One  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  flour,  three  eggs. — 
Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Apple  Fritters. — Four  eggs  to  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  flour  enough 
to  make  a  rather  stifif  batter.  Pare  and  cut  apples  in  thin  slices 
and  mix  into  the  batter. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Lazvthers. 

Apple  Fritters. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  of  milk. 
Bake  on  a  griddle  a  little  thicker  than  flour  cakes.  Pare  the  ap- 
ples, cut  in  thick  slices  and  bake  in  the  oven.  While  hot  lay  a 
piece  of  apple  on  each  fritter,  sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top  of  each 
apple.    Serve. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Woodman. 

Cream  Fritters. — One  and  one-half  pints  of  flour,  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  shortening  of  lard 
and  butter  together  the  size  of  a  hickorynut.  Milk  enough  to  make 
it  a  thick  batter.  Drop  in  hot  lard  and  fry  or  dip  pieces  of  apple 
into  the  batter  before  frying.  Eat  with  butter  and  sugar  sauce. 
—Mrs.  M.  C.  Wick. 

CoRNMEAL  Fritters. — One  pint  of  cornmeal,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  ^gg,  one  pint  of  wheat  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Corn  Fritters. — Take  six  ears  of  sweet  corn,  cut  and  scrape 
them  (or  if  they  are  old  it  is  better  to  grate  them) .  Beat  separately 
the  whites  and  yolks  of  five  eggs ;  stir  all  together  with  salt.  Fry 
in  cakes  using  plenty  of  butter. — Mrs.  Sydney  Strong. 


FRITTERS   AND  DUMPLINGS  I33 

Corn  Fritters. — Eight  ears  of  corn  (grated),  two  eggs 
whites  beaten  separately,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  cream,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Drop  into  a  little  hot  lard  a  small  spoonful  at  a  time. — 
Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Corn  Fritters. — To  a  can  of  corn  add  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  tea- 
spoosful  of  pepper;  mix  thoroughly.  Have  the  pan  hot.  Put  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  and  drop  in  the  corn  in  large  spoonfuls. 
Cook  brown. — Miss  Maria  Wells. 

Corn  Fritters. — Grate  one  and  one-half  dozen  ears  of  corn, 
add  one  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs,  one  spoonful  of  flour,  a  little  salt 
and  pepper. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Woodman. 

Clam  or  Oystet  Fritters. —  (See  under  Shell  Fish.) 

Parsnip  Fritters. — Four  parsnips  boiled  and  mashed  fine; 
add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  teacup  of  milk  and  salt  to  taste.  Upon 
a  buttered  griddle  drop  the  mixture  and  bake  after  the  style  of 
flannel  cakes.    Serve  quite  hot. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Haiiey. 

Spanish  Puffs. — Put  into  a  sauce  pan  a  teacupful  of  water, 
a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
two  ounces  of  butter.  While  it  is  boiling,  add  sufficient  flour  for 
it  to  leave  the  sauce  pan.  Stir  in,  one  by  one,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  drop  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  into  boiling  lard,  fry  them  a 
light  brown.     Eat  with  maple  syrup. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Apple  or  Peach  Dumplings. — Pare  and  core  fine  juicy  ap- 
ples. Then  take  light  bread  dough,  cut  into  round  pieces  half  an 
inch  thick  and  fold  around  each  apple  until  well  covered.  Put 
them  into  a  steamer,  let  them  rise,  then  set  the  steamer  over  a  pot 
of  boiling  water  and  steam.  Eat  with  butter  and  sugar  or  cream. 
Use  peaches  in  the  same  way. — Mrs.  M.  Adelia  Wick. 

Baked  Apple  Dumpling. — Cook  apples  almost  entirely 
whole,  coring  or  not  as  you  may  prefer.  Melt  butter  and  sugar  in 
a  baking  pan,  and  having  inclosed  them  in  a  good  paste,  bake. 
Baste  them  constantly. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Tayler. 


134  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Apricot  Fritters. — Take  a  can  of  apricots,  select  the  finest 
ones  for  the  purpose  of  making  fritters.  Drain  off  the  syrup, 
make  them  as  dry  as  possible  by  turning  them  on  a  cloth  and 
letting  them  stand  some  time.  Next  cover  the  pieces  with  finely 
powdered  sugar  and  dip  them  quickly  into  a  thick  batter.  Fry  in 
very  hot  fat. 

Rice  Compote. — One- fourth  pound  of  rice,  one  quart  of  new 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  wash  the  rice  thoroughly,  put  in  a 
double  boiler  with  the  milk  and  salt ;  cover  and  let  it  boil  until 
tender  stirring  occasionally  or  until  the  milk  is  well  thickened 
around  the  rice.  Each  grain  should  be  plump.  Set  in  a  mold 
until  cold.  Then  turn  out  onto  a  glass  dish  and  pour  around  it  a 
rich  preserve  of  peaches,  pairs  or  apricots.  Cold,  this  makes  a 
nice  dessert,  or  can  be  served  hot  as  an  accompaniment  for  meat. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  ICES 


REMARKS. 


Ices  can  be  made  at  home  comparatively  cheap  with  a  freezer, 
which  now  can  be  obtained  at  reasonable  prices.  Directions  come 
with  each  machine.  For  freezing  ices  use  one  part  coarse  salt,  two 
parts  of  ice  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Pack  the  cream  pail  firmly 
above  the  height  of  the  cream.  For  three  pints  of  cream  pour  over 
the  ice  in  the  freezer  one  and  one-half  pints  of  water  and  for  every 
additional  quart  of  cream  add  one-half  pint  of  water  after  the 
packing. 

Boiled  Custard. — Allow  five  eggs  to  one  quart  of  milk,  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  each  egg,  set  the  milk  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water  until  it  scalds  ;  then,  after  dipping  a  little  of  the  milk 
onto  the  eggs  and  beating  up,  turn  into  the  scolded  milk  and  stir 
until  it  thickens.    Flavor  to  taste. 

Baked  Custard. — One  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
sugar  and  flavor  to  taste,  boil  the  milk ;  when  cool  stir  in  the  beaten 
eggs  and  sugar,  pour  into  cups,  set  them  in  pans  of  water  and 
bake;  if  baked  too  long  will  become  watery. — Mrs.  Jonathan 
Warner. 

Lemon  Custard. — Four  eggs,  leave  out  the  white  of  one,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  cold  water,  one-  grated  lemon,  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch ;  bake  as  custard : 
after  it  is  baked,  cover  it  with  the  beaten  white  and  pulverized 
sugar ;  return  to  the  oven  ;  bake  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

Floating  Island. — One  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs  and  five  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  scald  the  milk,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks,  first 
stirring  into  them  a  little  of  the  scalded  milk  to  prevent  curdling ; 
stir  constantly  until  of  the  right  consistency ;  when  cool,  flavor ;  let 
it  get  very  cold,  and  before  serving  beat  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  into  them  a  little  fine  sugar  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  current  jelly;  dip  this  onto  the  custard. 


136  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Coffee  Custard. — One-half  pint  of  rich  cream,  one-half  cup 
cold  coffee,  four  eggs,  sugar  to  taste. — Mrs.  Frank  Wick. 

Russian  Cream. — One  quart  of  milk,  one-half  box  of  gel- 
atine, the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar ; 
make  a  boiled  custard,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  lightly 
while  the  custard  is  hot,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  pour  into  a 
mold ;  make  the  day  before  using. — Mrs.  T.  H.  Wilson. 

Velvet  Cream. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  strawberry  jelly,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized 
sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  then  whip  the  cream,  fill 
a  wineglass  one-half  full  of  whipped  cream,  and  fill  the  glass  with 
the  above  mixture  beaten  to  a  cream. — Mrs.  Fred  Lcivis. 

Italian  Cream. — One  quart  of  whipped  cream,  four  wine- 
glasses of  wine  and  juice  of  one  lemon  mixed  with  sugar,  one 
ounce  of  gelatine,  sweeten  to  your  taste  and  beat  all  well  together ; 
keep  cool. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Butler. 

Bavarian  Cream. — One  quart  of  cream  sweetened  and  flav- 
ored and  whipped  to  a  froth ;  add  nearly  one-half  paper  of  sparkling 
gelatine  dissolved  in  water,  pour  into  molds  and  nearly  or  quite 
freeze  it;  the  dish  may  be  lined  with  lady-fingers  if  preferred. — 
Mrs.  Wm.  Lawthers. 

Persian  Cream. — Dissolve  gently  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a 
pint  of  new  milk  and  strain.  Then  put  it  in  a  clean  saucepan  with 
three  ounces  of  sugar  and  when  it  boils  stir  in  one-half  pint  of 
good  cream;  add  this  liquid,  at  first  by  spoonfuls  only,  to  eight 
ounces  of  jam  or  rich  preserved  fruit ;  mix  them  very  smooth  and 
stir  the  whole  until  it  is  nearly  cold,  that  the  fruit  may  not  sink 
to  the  bottom  of  the  mold ;  when  the  liquid  is  put  to  the  fruit  and 
stirred  until  nearly  cold,  whisk  them  briskly  together,  and  last  of 
all  throw  in,  by  very  small  portions  at  a  time,  the  strained  juice 
of  one  lemon.  Put  into  a  mold  and  let  it  stand  at  least  twelve 
hours  in  a  cold  place  before  serving. 

Genoese  Cream. — One  quart  of  milk,  six  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  only  enough  milk  to  wet  it ; 
boil  with  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk ; 
add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  let  it  scald ;  when  cool  add  one 
quart  of  whipped  cream,  vanilla  to  taste;  line  a  dish  with  lady- 
fingers,   split  and  dipped   in  wine  to  make   stick  to  dish;  mix 


CUSTARDS,    CREAMS    AND    ICES  I37 

chopped  almonds   into  the  custard ;  pour  slowly   into  the  dish  ; 
scatter  almonds  and  lady-fingers  over  the  top. 

Pink  Cream. — Three  gills  of  strawberry  or  currant  juice,  mix 
with  one-half  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  thick 
cream ;  whisk  until  well  mixed ;  serve  in  a  glass  dish. 

Pineapple  Ice. — Having  pared  and  sliced  a  sufficient  number 
of  very  ripe  pineapples,  cut  the  slices  into  small  bits,  put  them 
into  a  deep  dish  or  tureen,  sprinkle  among  them  powdered  loaf 
sugar,  cover  them,  and  let  them  set  several  hours  in  a  cool  place. 
Then  have  ready  a  syrup  made  of  loaf  sugar  dissolved  in  a  little 
water,  allowing  to  every  two  pounds  of  sugar  a  pint  of  water  with 
half  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  boiled  and  skimmed  until  quite  clear. 
Get  as  much  pineapple  juice  as  you  can  by  squeezing  through  a 
sieve  the  bits  of  pineapple  (after  they  have  stood  some  hours  in 
the  tureen).  Measure  it,  and  to  each  pint  of  boiled  syrup  allow 
a  pint  of  juice.  Mix  them  together  while  the  syrup  is  warm  from 
the  fire,  then  put  it  into  freezer  and  proceed  in  the  usual  manner. — 
Miss  Leslie. 

Blanc  Mange. — Put  on  to  boil  one  quart  of  new  milk,  adding 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  up  once  remove 
from  the  fire  and  when  nearly  cold  stir  in  one  ounce  of  gelatine 
which  has  been  dissolved  in  as  small  a  quantity  of  water  as  possible. 
Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  and  put  into  mold  to  stiffen.  Eat  with 
cream,  sugar  and  jelly. 

Syllabub. — One  pint  of  sweet  cream,  one  large  spoonful  of 
white  wine ;  sweeten  to  taste  with  powdered  sugar,  flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla ;  beat  with  a  large  spoon,  and  as  fast  as  the  froth 
arises  take  it  off;  put  into  a  whip  bowl,  or  cover  jelly  in  glasses 
with  it.  If  the  weather  is  hot  it  will  be  necessary  to  cool  the 
cream  by  placing  it  on  ice  before  attempting  to  beat  it,  or  the 
froth  will  not  rise. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 

Charlotte  Russe. — Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  stir  them 
into  one  pint  of  scalding  milk.  Boil  like  custard  and  set  away  to 
cool.  Pour  a  large  cup  of  warm  water  over  a  half  box  of  gelatine, 
set  it  on  the  stove  but  do  not  let  it  get  hot ;  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  very  light  and  add  enough  pulverized  sugar  to  make  stiflf; 
then  whip  one  pint  of  good  cream  and  stir  into  the  custard;  then 
the  whites  flavored  with  vanilla ;  then  the  gelatine  well  dissolved. 


138  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Mix  thoroughly  and  set  away  to  cool  (about  two  hours).  Line 
your  dish  with  either  sponge  cake  or  lady-fingers,  and  fill  with  the 
mixture.  Let  it  stand  five  or  six  hours. — Miss  Sallie  Arms. 

Charlotte  Russe. — One  quart  of  thick  cream,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  one  ounce  of  gelatine,  twelve  eggs.  Whip  the  cream  to  a 
thick  froth,  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  together ;  then 
add  the  whipped  cream,  then  the  beaten  whites ;  flavor  with  vanilla 
and  last  put  in  the  gelatine  dissolved  in  water,  then  pour  immed- 
iately into  your  dishes  prepared  with  cake  (sponge)  and  let  it 
stand  in  the  cold  one  hour  to  harden. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Charlotte  de  Russe. — Soak  one-third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in 
enough  milk  to  cover.  Take  one  pint  of  rich  cream  cold  and  whip 
to  a  perfectly  stiff  froth ;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until  light ; 
then  stir  eggs  and  cream  carefully  together ;  stir  in  five  table- 
spoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar ;  flavor  to  taste ;  then  add  the  gela- 
tine, which  has  been  previously  soaked,  stirring  in  carefully.  Pour 
all  into  a  mold  and  set  on  ice  to  stiffen.  Before  serving  turn  from 
mold  onto  a  platter  and  arrange  lady-fingers  around. — Mrs.  Mar- 
tyn  BonnelL 

Frozen  Peaches  and  Cream. — Choose  nice  ripe  peaches,  but 
perfectly  sound,  peel  and  slice  them ;  mix  them  with  sugar  and 
cream  to  taste.    Freeze. 

Ice  Cream. — Two  quarts  of  good  cream,  one-half  pint  of  milk, 
fourteen  ounces  of  white  sugar,  two  eggs ;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar 
together  as  for  cake,  before  mixing  with  the  cream,  flavor  to  suit 
the  taste.  Place  the  can  in  the  freezer  and  put  in  alternate  layers 
of  pounded  ice  and  salt ;  use  plenty  of  salt  to  make  the  cream  freeze 
quickly ;  stir  immediately  and  constantly,  stirring  rapidly  as  it  be- 
gins to  freeze,  to  make  it  perfectly  smooth,  and  slower  as  it  gets 
pretty  stiff.  As  the  ice  melts  draw  off  the  water  and  fill  up  with 
fresh  layers. — Mrs.  Timothy  Baldwin. 

Ice  Cream. — One  and  one-half  pints  of  milk  in  a  double 
boiler;  when  hot  add  one  good  tablespoonful  of  Bermuda  arrow- 
root ;  cook  until  thick,  strain  and  cool.  One  quart  whipped  cream ; 
add  this  to  milk  and  beat  until  smooth  ;  flavor  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Mrs.  Fox,  Sagertown. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. — For  one  gallon  of  ice  cream  grate 
fine  about  one-half  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate;  flavor  with  vanillt 


CUSTARDS,    CREAMS    AND    ICES  139 

and  stir  in  the  chocolate.     Proceed  as  for  ice  cream. — Mrs.  John 
C.  Wick. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. — One  quart  of  cream,  one  pint  of 
strained  strawberry  juice,  one  pint  of  sugar;  mix  the  sugar  and 
juice  together,  then  stir  in  the  cream.    Freeze. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

TuTTi  Frutti. — One  quart  of  rich  cream,  one  and  one-half 
ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  chopped  fine ;  one-half  pound  of  sugar  ; 
freeze  and  when  sufficiently  congealed,  add  one-half  pound  of 
preserved  fruits  with  a  few  white  raisins  chopped  and  finely  sliced 
citron.  Cut  the  fruit  small  and  mix  well  with  cream.  Freeze  like 
ice  cream. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Frozen  Tapioca  Pudding. — Soak  one-half  cup  of  pearl  tapi- 
oca in  a  quart  of  milk  over  night ;  put  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook 
just  until  soft  with  enough  sugar  to  sweeten ;  when  cool  add 
vanilla  and  one  pint  of  cream,  turn  into  mold  and  pack  in  ice  and 
salt  for  four  hours.  Serve  with  hot  caramel  sauce. — Mrs.  Robert 
Bentley. 

Frozen  Pudding. — To  two  gallons  of  vanilla  ice  cream  add 
when  nearly  frozen  one  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts,  one  cup 
of  candied  cherries  chopped,  one-half  cup  of  chopped  candied  pine- 
apple, the  fruit  all  having  been  prepared  and  soaked  for  several 
hours  in  one  large  cup  of  sherry  wine  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
Jamaica  rum. — Miss  Isabel  McCurdy. 

Frozen  Egg  Nog. — Six  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  one- 
half  pint  of  brandy,  one  small  wine-glass  of  rum,  three  pints  of 
cream.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  together  until  it 
is  a  froth ;  add  the  brandy  and  rum,  then  the  cream ;  after  starting 
to  freeze  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. — Mrs. 
Geo.  D.  Wick. 

Frozen  Egg  Nog. — Yolks  of  three  eggs,  whites  of  five,  whip- 
ped to  a  stiff  froth,  one  quart  of  cream,  one  wine-glass  of  brandy 
and  a  little  rum.    Sweeten  to  taste. — Mrs.  W.  W.  Bonnell. 

Maple  Mousse. — One  cup  of  maple  syrup,  yolks  of  four  eggs 
stirred  into  syrup,  cook  until  thick;  when  cold  stir  into  this,  one 
quart  of  whipped  cream  and  whites  (beaten)  of  four  eggs.  Pack 
and  still  freeze  three  hours. — Mrs.  Fox,  Sagertoivn. 


140  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Maple  Sugar  Mousse. — One  pint  of  cream  whipped,  one  cup 
of  maple  syrup,  one  egg;  beat  egg  and  sugar,  then  add  whipped 
cream ;  let  stand  four  hours  packed  in  ice  and  salt. — Mrs.  IV.  H. 
Hudnut. 

Fruit  Mousse. — One  quart  thick  cream,  one  teaspoon  vanilla, 
one-half  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Whip  cream,  add  sugar  and 
vanilla,  stir  in  candied  cherries,  pineapple  jam,  Sunshine  strawber- 
ries ;  put  into  a  tin  vessel  and  place  in  a  larger  vessel,  pack  in  ice ; 
three  cups  of  ice  to  one  of  salt ;  set  twenty  minutes  to  freeze ;  open 
and  stir  away  from  the  sides  once  or  twice. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Bonnell. 

Pineapple  Mousse. — Dissolve  one  ounce  (or  less)  gelatine  in 
three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  cold  water ;  after  one  hour  add  one  cup 
of  boiling  water,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  juice  of 
one  lemon,  one  can  of  shredded  pineapple  and  a  little  pink  color- 
ing. Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  one  cup  of  whipped 
cream,  put  in  mold  and  bury  in  ice  and  salt  for  two  hours. — Miss 
Arabella  J.  Euwer. 

Cafe  Parfait. — Boil  one  cup  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  water 
until  syrup  spins  a  thread.  Beat  whites  of  three  eggs  to  stifif, 
dry  froth,  then  add  syrup  gradually  beating  all  the  time  until  cold ; 
add  one  pint  of  whipped  cream  and  one-half  cup  of  very  strong 
coffee ;  mix  well.  Freeze  as  ice  cream ;  f reez  very  quickly — eight 
or  ten  minutes.  Serve  whipped  cream  on  top.  Serve  six  persons. 
— Mrs.  Robert  Bentley. 

Cafe  Parfait. — Put  three-quarters  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half 
cup  of  water  over  the  fire ;  cook  without  stirring  until  the  soft  ball 
stage  is  reached.  Have  ready  one-half  cup  of  hot  black  cofifee. 
Pour  the  coffee  very  carefully  into  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs 
and  then  very  slowly  add  the  hot  syrup,  beating  all  the  time.  Return 
the  mixture  to  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler  and  stir  and  cook  until  it 
slightly  thickens ;  then  set  the  dish  in  icewater  and  beat  until 
cold ;  then  gently  stir  into  it  one  pint  of  thick  cream  beaten  stiff 
with  wire  egg  beater ;  put  in  melon  mold,  fill  to  overflowing ;  pack 
in  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  three  or  four  hours. 
Serve  in  small  glasses  with  whipped  cream  on  top. — Mrs.  C.  H. 
Booth. 

Orange  Souffle. — One  quart  of  cream,  one  pint  of  orange 
juice,  one  pound  sugar,  one-half  box  of  gelatine,  yolks  of  six 


CUSTARDS,    CREAMS   AND   ICES  I4I 

eggs.  Cover  the  gelatine  with  one-half  cup  of  cold  water  and  soak 
one  hour,  then  add  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water  and  stir  until 
dissolved.  Mix  the  orange  and  sugar  together  until  they  form  a 
syrup.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  cream ;  whip  the  cream.  Now 
mix  the  syrup  and  yolks  together  in  a  tin  basin,  stand  the  basin  in 
a  pan  of  ice  water,  strain  the  gelatine  into  it  and  stir  carefully 
until  it  begins  to  thicken  ;  then  stir  in  lightly  and  hastily  the  whip- 
ped cream ;  turn  into  an  ice  cream  mold ;  pack  in  salt  and  ice  and 
freeze  two  hours.  This  should  be  frozen  as  hard  as  ice  cream. — 
Miss  Frank  Jones,  Toledo. 

Bisque  Tortoni. — One  quart  double  cream  whipped ;  yolks  of 
ten  eggs ;  one-quarter  pound  powdered  sugar ;  beat  eggs  stiflf,  add 
sugar ;  cook  over  water  until  it  coats  spoon ;  beat  until  cool ;  add 
cream,  powdered  macaroons  and  sherry ;  pack  in  ice  and  salt  three 
hours ;  sprinkle  macaroons  over  top. — Mrs.  P.  B.  Ozvens. 

Coupe  St  Jacques. — Cut  equal  quantities  of  pineapple,  pears, 
peaches,  apples,  oranges  and  bananas  into  cubes ;  add  same  pro- 
portion of  sweet  cherries,  sweeten  to  taste  and  pour  over  them  to 
about  half  cover,  maraschino.  Set  on  ice  until  very  cold  then 
serve  in  champagne  glasses  with  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  or 
orange  ice  on  top  of  each  glass. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Frozen  Apricots. — Remove  the  skins  from  a  quart  can  of 
apricots  and  cut  in  small  pieces ;  add  one  quart  of  water  and  two 
cups  of  sugar ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Freeze,  and  allow 
the  mixture  to  stand  an  hour  or  two  after  freezing  before  it  is 
served. — Miss  Arabella  Euwer. 

Apricot  Sherbert. — One  pint  of  orange  juice,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  one  quart  can  of  apricots ;  mash  apricots  through  colander ; 
freeze ;  three  cups  of  ice  to  one  cup  of  rock  salt. — Mrs.  Robert 
Bent  ley. 

Lemon  Ice. — One  quart  of  water,  juice  of  four  lemons,  one 
pound  of  sugar;  strain  the  mixture  and  just  before  freezing  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. — Miss  Lizzie  Bonnell. 

Lemon  Ice. — One-half  pint  lemon  juice,  one-half  pint  of 
water,  one  pint  of  strong  syrup.  The  rind  of  the  lemon  should  be 
rasped  ofif  before  squeezing  with  lump  sugar  which  is  to  be  added 
to  the  juice.  Mix  the  whole  together,  strain  after  standing  an 
hour  and  freeze.     Beat  up  with  a  little  sugar  the  whites  of  two 


142  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

or  three  eggs,  and,  as  the  ice  is  beginning  to  set,  work  this  in 
with  the  spatula,  which  will  much  improve  the  consistency  and 
taste.     Orange  ice  the  same. — Mrs.  Mary  Bentley. 

Strawberry  Ice.— One  quart  of  strawberries,  one  quart  of 
water,  one  pint  of  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons;  add  sugar  and 
lemon  juice  to  strawberries,  mash  and  set  aside  for  one  hour; 
then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve;  add  water  and  freeze.  Have 
berries  very  ripe.— Mr.y.  /.  D.   Wick,  St.  Louis. 

Pineapple  Cream. — Chop  one  can  of  pineapple  fine,  add  one 
cup  of  sugar  and  cook  twenty  minutes ;  soak  one-third  of  a  box 
of  gelatine  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  until  dissolved;  add 
strained  juice  and  if  necessary  enough  hot  water  to  make  one 
pint  of  liquid ;  when  it  begins  to  set  beat  until  light  and  then  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
beaten  into  eggs ;  beat  again  and  add  one  pint  of  cream  after  it  is 
whipped ;  put  in  mold  and  set  away  to  cool ;  turn  onto  plate  and 
serve  with  lady-fingers  around. — Mrs.  Myron  C.  Wick. 

Raspberry  Water  Ice. — Take  one  quart  of  red  raspberries, 
one  quart  of  water,  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  one  pound  of  sugar ; 
add  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice  to  the  berries ;  stir  and  let  stand  for 
one  hour ;  put  through  a  sieve ;  add  the  water,  turn  into  a  freezer 
and  iv&tz&.—rMrs.  H.  B.  Wick,  Elyria. 

Claret  Ice. — Three  pints  of  water,  four  cups  of  sugar.  Boil 
ten  minutes,  let  cool.  Put  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  one  orange, 
three-fourths  of  a  quart  bottle  of  claret,  add  sugar  to  taste.  Add 
the  white  of  one  tgg  beaten  stifiF  ten  minutes  before  done. — Mrs. 
R.  Bentley. 

Roses  Glace  Daintee. — One-half  package  of  gelatine  soaked 
in  one  and  a  half  cups  of  white  wine  for  thirty  minutes,  then  set 
the  bowl  into  boiling  water  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Add 
one-half  cup  of  sugar,  a  few  drops  of  orange  flower  water  to  flavor, 
a  few  drops  of  spinach  extract  to  color  a  delicate  green,  strain  and 
set  away  to  cool.  When  it  begins  to  thicken  beat  in  one  pint  of 
whipped  cream.  Add  two  ounces  of  candied  rose  petals,  turn  into 
square  mold  and  when  set,  turn  out  on  lace  paper  mat  on  crystal 
dessert  platter.  Garnish  with  roses.  The  same  can  be  made  using 
violets. — Miss  Isabel  Mc Curdy. 


CUSTARDS,    CREAMS    AND    ICES  I43 

Lemon  Sherbert. — One  and  one-half  pints  of  water,  one 
and  one-half  pints  of  sugar,  six  oranges,  two  lemons.  Boil  water 
and  sugar  fifteen  minutes,  add  juice  of  oranges  and  lemons,  cool 
and  freeze.  Use  three  cups  of  ice  to  one  of  rock  salt. — Mrs.  J.  M. 
Bonnell. 

Rose  Glace. — One-half  package  of  gelatine  soaked  in  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  white  wine  for  thirty  minutes ;  then  set  bowl  into 
boiling  water  until  gelatine  is  dissolved ;  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  a 
few  drops  of  orange  flower  water  to  flavor ;  a  few  drops  of  spinach 
extract  to  color  a  delicate  green ;  strain  and  set  away  to  cool ; 
when  it  begins  to  thicken  beat  in  one  pint  of  whipped  cream  and 
two  ounces  of  candied  rose  petals ;  turn  into  a  mold  and  when  set, 
turn  out  on  platter  and  garnish  with  roses. — Mrs.  Fox,  Saeger- 
town. 

Cranberry  Sherbert. — One  quart  of  cranberries,  one  pint  of 
boiling  water,  one  pint  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons ;  pour  boiling 
water  on  cranberries ;  cook  until  cracked  open,  strain,  add  sugar 
and  juice  of  lemons.     Freeze. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Wick,  St.  Louis. 

French  Strawberries. — Fill  glass  sherbert  cups  one-half 
full  of  strawberries  cut  into  halves ;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  fill 
up  with  strained  orange  juice.  Set  cups  in  pans  of  cracked  ice 
and  salt  for  two  hours  or  longer. 

Strawberry  Sauce  for  Ices. — Strain  the  juice  from  a  quart 
jar  of  preserved  strawberries,  set  on  the  stove  and  boil  until  the 
consistency  of  maple  syrup ;  when  cool  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sherry  wine ;  let  stand  on  ice  until  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  Henry 
Wick. 

Chocolate  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream. — Two  ounces  of  choco- 
late, two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  one-half  cup  of  water  and  a  piece  of  cinnamon  one  inch 
long;  cook  to  soft  ball  stage,  remove  cinnamon  and  pour  hot  over 
each  serving  of  ice  cream.  It  will  candy. — Mrs.  Riddle,  Saranac 
Inn. 

Lemon  Jelly. — One  box  of  gelatine ;  pare  five  lemons  thin 
and  squeeze  out  the  juice ;  break  up  one  small  stick  of  cinnamon 
add  a  little  orange  peel,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  sugar,  then 
pour  on  one  pint  of  cold  water  and  let  it  soak  for  three  hours. 
Put  in  the  kettle  with  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  stirring  until 


144  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK  BOOK 

the  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Then  let  it  simmer  for  about  half  an 
hour.  Strain  through  a  bag  into  jelly-molds  and  let  it  cool. — Mrs. 
William  Bonnell. 

Lemon  Jelly. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  six  eggs,  juice  of  two  lemons  and  rind  of  three  lemons. 
Beat  thoroughly  together ;  cook  until  as  thick  as  boiled  custard. — 
Mrs.  IVilliam  Lazvthers. 

Wine  Jelly. — To  a  package  or  an  ounce  of  gelatine,  pour  on 
a  pint  of  cold  water ;  put  in  one  or  more  lemons  and  let  them  soak 
for  two  hours,  then  add  one  quart  of  boiling  water ;  when  it  is 
cooled  off  a  little,  put  in  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  and  add  one  pint 
of  white  or  Madeira  wine.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  To  be 
made  the  day  before  using. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Butler. 

A  Dish  of  Snow. — Grate  a  cocoanut  leaving  out  the  brown 
part.  Heap  it  up  in  the  center  of  a  handsome  dish,  and  ornament 
with  fine  green  leaves  such  as  peach  or  honeysuckle.  Serve  it  up 
with  snow  cream  made  in  this  way :  Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  large  spoonfuls  of  fine  white  sugar,  a 
large  spoonful  of  rose  water  or  pineapple.  Beat  the  whole  well 
together  and  add  a  pint  of  thick  cream.  Put  several  spoonfuls  over 
each  dish  of  cocoanut. — Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Haney. 

Apple  Float. — One  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  cup  of 
cream  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  five  eggs  beaten  light,  one  lemon,  four 
large  apples  grated,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  dissolved  in 
warm  water.    Fills  one  quart  bowl. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

Apple  Snow. — Ten  good-sized  apples,  the  whites  of  ten  eggs, 
rind  of  one  lemon,  one-half  pound  of  fine  sugar;  peel,  core  and  cut 
into  quarters ;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  lemon  peel  and  sufficient 
water  to  keep  from  burning — less  than  one-half  pint.  When  ten- 
der take  out  the  peel,  beat  the  apples  to  a  pulp,  let  cool,  stir  in 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  previously  beaten ;  add  sugar  and  continue 
whisking  till  the  mixture  becomes  quite  stiff ;  heap  on  a  glass  dish ; 
garnish  with  strips  of  bright-colored  jelly.  To  be  served  with 
cream. 

Apples. — Two  pounds  of  apples  pared  and  cored,  sliced  into 
a  pan  ;  add  one  pound  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  grated 
rind  of  one.  Let  boil  about  two  hours,  turn  into  a  mold.  When 
cold  serve  with  thick  cream. 


CUSTARDS,   CREAMS   AND   ICES  I45 

Chartreuse  D'Oranges. — Make  a  very  clear  orange  jelly 
with  one  and  a  half  pints  of  water,  six  oranges,  sugar  to  taste,  one 
wine-glass  of  sherry,  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  gelatine ;  divide 
three  or  four  oranges  into  quarters  and  with  a  sharp  knife  remove 
every  vestige  of  skin  of  any  sort — also  the  seeds ;  have  two  plain 
molds,  one  about  one  and  a  fourth  inches  more  in  diameter  than 
the  other;  pour  a  very  little  of  the  jelly  at  the  bottom  of  the  large 
mold,  place  in  this  a  layer  of  orange  quarters  (if  too  thick  split  in 
two  lengthways),  cover  with  more  jelly,  but  only  just  enough  to 
get  a  smooth  surface ;  set  on  ice  to  set ;  when  it  is  quite  firm,  put  in 
the  small  mold  inside  of  the  large  one,  taking  care  to  place  exactly 
in  the  middle,  so  that  the  vacant  place  between  the  two  molds  be 
exactly  of  the  same  width ;  in  the  vacant  place  put  more  orange 
quarters,  filling  up  with  jelly  until  the  whole  space  is  filled  up  ;  place 
the  mold  on  the  ice,  and  proceed  to  whip  one  pint  of  cream  with 
one-half  ounce  of  dissolved  gelatine,  and  some  sweetened  orange 
juice,  which  must  be  added  to  it  a  very  little  at  a  time,  else  the 
cream  will  not  rise  in  a  froth ;  when  the  cream  s  ready  and  the 
jelly  set,  remove  the  inner  mold  by  pouring  warm  water  into  it, 
and  fill  up  the  space  of  the  chartreuse  with  whipped  cream.  Set 
on  ice  for  an  hour,  turn  out  and  serve. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Syrup  for  Ice  Cream. — Put  a  large  funnel  over  a  quart 
Mason  jar,  lay  a  small  piece  of  cheese  cloth  in  it  and  then  put  in 
two  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  in  funnel.  Press  one  pint  of 
strawberry  juice  from  fresh,  ripe  berries,  make  a  small  hole  in  the 
center  of  the  sugar  and  pour  the  juice  into  it,  letting  it  drip  into 
the  jar.  When  it  is  done  dripping,  pour  the  juice  again  over  what 
sugar  is  left  in  the  funnel  and  let  drip  through  again.  When  done 
it  should  be  about  the  consistency  of  honey.  To  every  cup  of  juice 
add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Madeira  wine  or  any  liquor  that  is 
preferred.  Put  in  a  bottle  and  seal.  Keep  in  a  cool  place.  If  kept 
cool,  will  keep  any  length  of  time. 

Raspberries  or  pineapples  or  other  small  fruits  could  be  used 
in  the  same  way. — Mrs.  S.  Stevenson. 


BEVERAGES 


Coffee. — Coffee  is  much  better  mixed,  one  part  Java  to  one 
part  Mocha,  or  one  part  Java  to  one  part  Rio.  Wash  and  pick  over 
carefully  and  dry  off  in  a  moderate  oven  for  some  time,  then 
brown  fast  in  a  quick  oven,  watching  closely,  and  stirring  often 
to  prevent  any  of  the  grains  becoming  too  brown.  When  of  a 
nice  rich  brown,  stir  in  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  walnut 
and  bottle  tight.  To  brown  coffee  fresh  every  day  is  much  nicer. 
Allow  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  coffee  to  each  person  and  one 
extra  spoonful  to  every  six ;  put  into  the  coffee  pot,  beat  up  an 
egg  light  with  a  little  cold  water,  pour  a  part  over  the  grounds 
and  mix  up  well ;  if  eggs  are  plenty,  use  all  the  egg,  as  it  will 
make  the  coffee  much  richer.  Next  pour  on  the  boiling  water, 
allowing  for  each  person  one  pint ;  set  on  the  front  of  the  stove 
until  it  boils,  then  set  back  where  it  will  boil  slowly  for  twenty 
minutes. — Mrs.  Jonathan  Warner. 

Vienna  Coffee. — Leach  or  filter  the  coffee  through  a  French 
filter,  or  any  of  the  many  coffee  pots  that  filter  instead  of  boiling 
the  coffee;  allow  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  coffee  for  each 
person,  and  one  extra  for  the  pot.  Put  one  quart  of  cream  into 
milk  boiler,  or,  if  you  have  none,  into  a  pitcher  in  a  pail  or  boiling 
water ;  put  it  where  the  water  will  keep  boiling,  beat  the  white 
of  an  egg  to  a  froth,  then  add  to  the  egg  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cold  milk,  mix  the  egg  and  cold  milk  thoroughly  together ;  when 
hot,  remove  the  cream  from  the  fire  and  add  the  egg  and  cold  milk ; 
stir  it  all  together  briskly  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  then  serve. 
This  will  give  a  cup  of  coffee  very  nearly  equal  to  that  we  drank 
at  the  Vienna  bakery  at  the  Centennial. — Mrs.  Henry  Ward 
Beecher. 

Iced  Cafe  au  Lait. — Add  enough  cold  black  coffee  to  milk 
to  give  it  the  desired  strength  and  flavor.  Sweeten  to  taste  and 
let  it  stand  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve.  Serve  it  in  glasses  instead 
of  cups.     Any  coffee  left  from  breakfast  prepared  in  this  way 


BEVERAGES  I47 

makes  a  refreshing  and  acceptable  drink  for  luncheon  in  summer. 
— Century  Cook  Book. 

Tea. — Take  best  Oolong  or  Japanese  tea,  one  or  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  to  each  person,  according  to  the  strength  desired ;  put  it  into 
an  earthen  pot,  previously  rinsed  with  boiling  water,  and  set  it  on 
a  moderately  hot  stove ;  keep  at  the  boiling  point,  but  not  boiling, 
for  ten  minutes,  add  as  much  boiling  water  as  is  needed  and  take 
to  the  table.— Mr.y.  R.  McMillan. 

Iced  Tea. — The  most  delicious  and  sustaining  beverage  that 
can  be  drank  in  warm  weather,  is  good,  strong  tea,  cooled  down 
with  lumps  of  ice.  It  should  be  only  slightly  sweetened,  without 
milk,  and  flavored  with  a  few  slices  of  lemon. 

Tea  Punch. — One  quart  of  tea  made  in  the  proportion  of 
four  teaspoonfuls  of  Ceylon  tea  to  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  five 
tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  orange  juice, 
tw^o  cupfuls  of  sugar — granulated — one  pint  of  appolinaris  water. 
Stir  the  lemon  and  orange  juice  together,  put  these  in  a  puncn 
bowl  with  the  tea,  the  appolinaris  water,  and  a  couple  of  large 
pieces  of  ice.  If  possible  add  a  handful  of  raspberries  or  pine- 
apple dice. — Mrs.  S.  J.  McElevey. 

Chocolate. — Boil  one  quart  of  new  milk  in  double-boiler ; 
grate  one-half  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate ;  make  a  paste  with  a 
little  hot  water,  stir  in  slowly ;  add  to  this  gradually  the  hot  milk ; 
sweeten  to  taste,  putting  sugar  in  the  paste ;  also  a  little  vanilla. 
Add  part  of  the  cream  preparation,  which  is  made  thus :  Beat 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  very  stiff ;  add  a  little  sugar  to  the 
whites,  but  not  as  much  as  for  icing;  to  this  add  one  pint  of 
whipped  cream.  Boil  chocolate,  milk  and  cream  oreoaration  until 
thick  and  smooth.  The  other  half  of  whipped  cream  is  to  be 
used  on  top  of  cups. — Mrs.  W.  Scott  Bonnell. 

Chocolate. — To  a  small  cup  of  new  milk  use  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  grated  chocolate,  scant  teaspoon  of  sugar — propor- 
tion for  one  person.  Put  milk  on  in  double-boiler  to  get  scalding 
hot ;  mix  chocolate  and  sugar  in  a  bowl,  put  several  teaspoonfuls 
of  chocolate  extra,  to  make  it  a  little  richer.  Take  some  hot  milk 
and  stir  chocolate  and  sugar  smooth,  then  gradually  add  this  to 
hot  milk ;  cook  twenty  minutes.  A  drop  or  two  of  vanilla  is  some- 
times added  at  the  last. — Mrs.  G.  S.  Peck. 


148  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

For  Chocolate  and  Soups. — One  pint  of  cream  whipped; 
add  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs. — Mrs.  G.  S.  Peck. 

Chocolate. — Take  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  good  milk  and 
one-half  pint  of  cream  to  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  grated  choco- 
late ;  let  the  milk  and  cream  come  to  a  scald.  After  mixing  the 
chocolate  with  a  little  cold  milk,  stir  it  into  the  scalding  milk  and 
let  it  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  adding  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of 
sugar  and   stirring  occasionally. — Miss  Jennie   Taylor. 

Iced  Chocolate. — Any  of  above  recipes  can  be  used  for  iced 
chocolate  by  serving  in  glasses  and  adding  broken  ice.. 

Cocoa. — Cook  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cocoa  with  the  same 
amount  of  sugar,  and  water  enough  to  moisten.  When  the  cocoa 
has  dissolved,  and  boiled  up  once,  add  a  cup  and  a  half  of  scalded 
milk  and  cook  ten  minutes  ;  add  one-half  cup  of  cream,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  a  pinch  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sherry.    Beat  with  an  egg-beater  to  blend  the  flavors. 

Cocoa. — Dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  cocoa  in  half  a  cupful  of 
boiling  water,  then  add  a  half  cupful  of  boiling  milk  and  boil  it 
for  one  minute,  stirring  vigorously  all  the  time.  Sweeten  to 
taste. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Wick. 

Mock  Cream  for  Tea  and  Coffee. — To  a  pint  of  milk  take 
the  yolk  of  one  egg,  put  on  the  fire  and  let  come  to  a  scald.  It  is 
improved  by  adding  a  little  cleam  when  it  is  cool. — Mrs.  R.  Mc- 
Millan. 

Whipped  Cream  for  Coffee. — Set  rich,  sweet  cream  on  ice 
until  it  gets  very  cold,  or  to  the  freezing  point ;  then  whip  until 
light. — Mrs.  Timothy  Baldwin. 

Portable  Lemonade. — Rasp  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
loaf  sugar  the  rind  of  a  fine  juicy  lemon;  reduce  the  sugar  to  a 
powder,  and  pour  it  on  the  strained  juice  of  the  fruit.  Put  into 
a  jar.    To  be  used  when  desired. 

Small  Beer. — Three  quarts  of  hops ;  boil  in  a  kettle  until  the 
strength  is  out ;  take  a  quart  of  warm  water  and  thicken  to  a 
batter  with  flour,  and  stir  in  a  glass  of  yeast ;  let  rise.  Put  two 
quarts  of  molasses  into  a  crock  and  pour  the  strained  hop  water 
over,  adding  the  yeast.  Let  rise  over  night,  skim,  strain  and  pour 
off  in  the  morning.    Flavor  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of 


BEVERAGES  149 

wintergreen,  three-fourths  of  a  tablespoonful  of  spruce.  Bottle, 
and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  The  next  morning 
set  where  it  is  cool. — Miss  Lide  Wick. 

KuMYS. — One  and  one-half  pints  of  milk,  one-half  pint  of 
warm  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
home  made  yeast.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours  or  until  it  begins 
to  thicken,  then  bottle.— Mr.y.  /.  M.  Bonnell. 

Unfermented  Grape  Wine. — One  quart  of  juice  to  one  pint 
of  water,  and  one-half  pint  of  sugar.  If  the  juice  is  very  sour 
add  a  little  more  sugar.  Bottle  hot,  cork  tight,  and  seal. — Mrs.  E. 
S.  Kanengeiser. 

Grape  Juice. — Wash  the  grapes  and  pick  from  the  stem ; 
cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Let  this  drip 
through  a  cheese  cloth  bag  over  night.  (I  always  squeeze  it  out  as 
soon  as  cold.)  Then  measure  the  juice.  Allow  one-half  cup  of 
sugar  to  every  two  quarts  of  juice.  Then  boil  the  juice  alone  for 
twenty  minutes ;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Bottle  and 
seal. — Mrs.  G.  S.  Peck. 

Cherry  Bounce. — Put  one  bushel  of  wild  cherries  in  a  wine 
cask.  Pour  over  these  five  gallons  of  French  spirits ;  let  stand  three 
months ;  then  add  two  gallons  of  water  and  four  pounds  of  white 
sugar.  Filter  or  strain  the  bounce  when  drawn  off  and  it  is  ready 
for  use. — Mrs.  Riddle,  Saranac. 

Currant  Wine. — One  quart  of  juice,  two  of  water  and  two 
pounds  of  sugar;  mix  well  in  stone  jars  and  let  it  work  two  or 
three  weeks  without  disturbing.  Then  skim,  strain  and  put  up 
tight  in  a  cask  or  bottles.  Should  not  be  opened  for  six  months. 
— Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

PofVSPBERRY  Vinegar. — Take  one-half  bushel  of  raspberries, 
put  them  in  a  crock  and  cover  with  vinegar,  not  too  strong.  Let 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  strain,  adding  one  pound  of  sugar 
to  a  pint  of  juice.  Let  it  boil  twenty  minutes;  then  bottle. — Mrs. 
Henry  Wick. 

Egg  Nog. — Three  pints  of  rich  milk,  six  eggs  beaten  separ- 
ately, one  gill  of  whiskey ;  stir  the  yolks  into  the  milk,  add  whiskey 
and  one-half  nutmeg  grated ;  sweeten  to  taste,  then  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  the  last  thing. — Miss  Belle  Robbins. 


150  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Cafe  Cabinet. — One  pint  of  vanilla  ice  cream,  one  pint  of 
appolinaris  water,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  condensed  coffee, 
or  one  pint  of  very  strong  coffee^  for  the  latter  sugar  is  necessary. 
Stir  before  putting  in  the  ice  cream,  and  afterwards  but  a  little. 
Add  plenty  of  cracked  ice.  This  is  to  be  served  in  glasses,  or  with 
a  spoon,  as  a  drinkable. — Mrs.  Robert  Bentley. 

Temperance  Drink. — One  glass  of  Jamaica  rum,  three- 
fourths  of  a  glass  of  strained  lemon  juice,  and  one-half  a  glass  of 
pure  maple  syrup  ;  shake  together ;  bottle,  keep  on  ice  until  wanted. 
Serve  in  tall  punch  glasses  half  filled  with  shaved  ice.  Dilute  with 
water  if  too  strong. 


CAKES 


REMARKS. 

Use  the  best  of  materials  for  cake.  The  pulverized  sugar 
should  always  be  sifted.  Sift  the  flour.  Beat  the  whites  and 
yolks  of  eggs  separately.  When  fruit  is  used,  sprinkle  with  flour. 
Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  If  baking  powder  is  used  sift 
it  well  through  the  flour.  While  the  cake  is  baking,  no  air  must 
be  permitted  to  get  into  the  oven  unless  when  necessary  to  look  at 
the  cake  as  it  is  apt  to  make  it  fall.  The  heat  of  the  oven  should 
be  even  and  regular.  When  cake  is  done,  it  can  be  tested  by  stick- 
ing a  clean  broomstraw  into  it ;  if  nothing  adheres  to  the  straw,  the 
cake  is  done. 

Black  Cake, — One  pound  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  pounds 
of  brown  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  twelve  eggs  (or  leave  out  part 
of  the  eggs  and  use  the  same  quantity  of  molasses),  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda,  three  pounds  of  currants,  four  pounds  of  seeded 
raisins,  one  pound  of  citron,  two  nutmegs  (grated),  one  tumbler 
of  brandy,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves  and  cinnamon  each. 
Bake  in  a  large  loaf  three  or  four  hours. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick. 

Black  Cake. — One  pound  of  flour,  two  and  one-half  pounds 
of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs.  Same  quantity  of 
molasses  as  eggs  measure ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three  pounds 
of  currants,  four  pounds  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  citron,  two  nut- 
megs, one  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one  pint  of  brandy,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cloves  and  cinnamon  each.  Bake  two  and  one-half  hours. — 
Mrs.  IV.  S.  Bonnell. 

Black  Cake. — One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one 
and  one-half  pounds  of  flour,  three  pounds  of  currants,  three 
pounds  of  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  eight  eggs,  one  and 
one-half  teacupfuls  of  molasses,  one  teacupful  of  sour  milk,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  small  tumbler  of  brandy,  one-half 


152  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

tumbler  of  Madeira  wine,  one-half  ounce  of  salt,  one-half  ounce 
of  mace,  one-half  ounce  of  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  one  pound  of 
almonds  blanched  and  chopped. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Wedding  Cake. — One  pound  of  fine  sugar,  one  pound  of 
butter,  one-half  pound  of  citron  chopped  fine,  one  pound  of  flour, 
one  pound  of  currants,  twelve  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of 
raisins  (seeded  and  chopped),  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  nutmeg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cloves,  a  wine- 
glass of  best  brandy.  Stir  to  a  cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  stir  all  well  before  putting  in  one- 
half  the  flour.  Then  add  spices,  next  the  whipped  whites  stirred  in 
alternately  with  the  rest  of  the  flour.  Last  the  fruit  and  brandy. 
Bake  three  hours  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Gilman. 

Fruit  Cake. — Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sweet  cream  (not  rich),  six  eggs 
beaten  separately,  five  cups  of  flour,  raisins,  citron  and  nutmeg, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Stir  in  part  of  a  handful  of 
flour. — Mrs.  H.  Morse,  Poland. 

Fruit  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  seven  eggs, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  pound  raisins,  one  pound 
figs,  one  pound  dates,  one  pound  of  almonds,  one-fourth  of  a 
pound  of  citron.  Blanch  the  almonds  and  cut  fine.  Mix  baking 
powder  well  through  the  flour. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

Fruit  Cake  Without  Butter  and  Eggs. — On  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  lard,  one  cup  of  cold 
coffee,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  (one  in  the  coffee  and  one  in  the 
molasses),  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  one-half 
a  nutmeg,  four  good  cups  of  flour,  one  pound  each  of  raisins  and 
currants,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron  and  half  a  cup  of  nuts 
chopped.  Flour  the  fruit  to  keep  them  from  settling  at  the  bottom. 
This  makes  two  good-sized  loaves.. — Mrs.  J.  CanHeld. 

Fruit  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour, 
four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls 
cream  of  tartar,  two  pounds  of  raisins  (seeded  and  chopped),  nut- 
meg, cinnamon  and  cloves,  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy. — Mrs.  T. 
H.  Wilson. 


CAKES  153 

White  Fruit  Cake. — Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  four  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream 
of  tartar,  one  of  soda,  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  raisins, 
one-half  pound  of  citron. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Matthews. 

Fruit  Cake. — Seed  and  chop  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  dates. 
Mix  witth  them  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins  and  dust  them  with  one- 
half  cup  of  flour.  Dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda 
in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water.  Add  it  to  half  a  pint  of  thick, 
sour  cream ;  stir  a  moment,  then  add  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half 
a  tumbler  of  currant  or  strawberry  jelly,  a  tablespoonful  of  cin- 
namon, one  tablespoonful  of  allspice  and  two  cups  and  a  half  of 
flour.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  a  greased  square  bread  pan  for  one 
hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Keep  in  a  cake  box  one  week  before  cutting 
and  if  the  cream  is  thick  and  sour,  it  will  be  equal  to  plain  friut 
cake. — Mrs.  S.  J.  McElevey. 

HiCKORYNUT  Cake. — Two  teacupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  thin  cream,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  sifted  through  the  flour,  and 
six  eggs  beaten  separately.  One  pint  of  chopped  hickorynuts.— 
Mrs.  J.  C.  Wick. 

Walnut  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  two 
cups  of  granulated  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  black  wal- 
nuts chopped,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. — 
Mrs.  C.  A.  Ensign. 

Spice  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  five  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
cinnamon,  allspice  and  nutmeg,  essence  of  lemon,  three  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder. — Mrs.  M.  C.  Wick. 

Spice  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  milk,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon, 
nutmeg,  cloves  and  allspice. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

Spiced  Chocolate  Cake. — Four  eggs  (save  the  whites  of 
two  for  icing),  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  one-fourth  cup  chocolate,  one  cup  sour  milk,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice, 
Bake  in  loaf  or  layer  tins.     Icing:     One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half 


154  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

cup  of  chocolate.     Boil  until  it  hairs.     Beat  in  eggs,  flavor  with 
vanilla. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Kanengeiser. 

Devil's  Cake. — One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  of  butter,  two  eggs  all  beaten  together  and  one  cup  of  milk ; 
two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two-thirds  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour.  Then  take  one- 
half  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  yolk  of  one  egg.  Boil  till  thick.  When  cool,  stir  into  cake 
proper. — Mrs.  P.  B.  Owen. 

French  Loaf  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  fresh 
butter,  two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  six  eggs,  ten  cups  of  flour,  one 
wine-glass  of  wine,  one  of  brandy,  three  nutmegs,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one-fourth  pound  of  citron. — Mrs.  R. 
McMillan. 

Chocolate  or  Jelly  Cake. — One  cup  of  melted  butter,  three 
cups  of  sugar,  four  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  of  milk,"  six 
eggs.  This  will  make  two  cakes.  For  chocolate  cake  use  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  one  cup  of  chocolate. — Mrs.  R. 
McMillan. 

Chocolate  Cake. — Whites  of  eight  eggs,  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Icing:  One  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Boil  it  until  it  stiffens  in  water. 
Be  careful  not  to  burn. — Mrs.  E.  C.  Wells. 

Chocolate  Cake. — Boil  together  until  it  thickens  one-fourth 
of  a  cake  of  grated  chocolate,  one  egg  and  half  a  cup  of  milk. 
When  partly  cooled,  stir  into  the  following  just  before  putting  into 
pans :  Stir  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter 
to  a  cream;  add  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  egg  well  beaten,  two 
heaping  cupfuls  of  flour  and  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  in  two  layers.  Filling :  One 
square  of  chocolate,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  milk  and  one  egg.  Boil  until  it  thickens  and  add  grated 
cocoanut  and  vanilla. — Mrs.  F.  W.  Powers. 

Jam  Cake.— Three-fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sour 


CAKES  155 

milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  jam.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar,  then  put  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  then  the  spices. 
Dissolve  soda  in  milk,  then  stir  in,  add  whites  of  eggs,  then  flour, 
then  the  jam  (strawberry  is  best). — Mrs.  R.  Zimmerly. 

Jelly  Roll. — Sugar  one  cup,  flour  one  cup,  baking  powder 
one  teaspoonful,  sweet  milk  six  tablespoonfuls,  eggs  three.  Bake 
and  while  warm  spread  jelly  on  under  side  of  cake  and  roll. — Mrs. 
J.  C.  Crew. 

Rolled  Jelly  Cake. — Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  small 
cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt.  This  will  make  two  cakes.  Spread  thin 
on  long  tins.  This  will  not  break  in  rolling  if  there  is  not  too 
much  flour.  When  done,  turn  onto  a  cloth. — Mrs.  J.  CanHeld. 

Sponge  Cake. — The  weight  of  twelve  eggs  in  sugar  and  half 
the  weight  in  flour.  Add  one  extra  e§,g.  Grate  the  rind  of  two 
lemons,  squeeze  the  juice  of  one  and  put  in  the  juice  the  last 
thing,  the  eggs  and  sugar  to  be  well  beaten  together.  Add  the 
flour  and  lemon  and  bake  immediately.  This  requires  a  quick 
oven. — Grandmother  Wick. 

Sponge  Cake. — Whites  of  seven  eggs,  yolks  of  five  eggs,  as 
much  cream  of  tartar  as  will  go  on  the  very  end  of  the  handle  of 
the  teaspoon,  one  cup  of  sugar  sifted  two  or  three  times,  one  cup 
of  flour  sifted  six  times.  Beat  up  the  yolks  and  put  on  the  ice. 
Beat  whites,  add  sugar,  cream  of  tartar,  then  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
lastly  flour.  Flavor  to  taste.  Bake  thirty  or  thirty-five  minutes 
in  a  very  slow  oven. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Booth. 

Sponge  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  cup 
of  flour  and  ten  eggs.  Beat  whites  very  stiff,  mix  yolks  and  sugar 
together  until  light,  then  add  the  whites  and  flour  alternately. 
Bake  carefully. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Euwer. 

Sponge  Cake. — Ten  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of 
flour  and  one  lemon.  Eggs  beaten  separately  and  then  together. 
After  beating  eggs  together,  add  sugar  and  beat  again  thoroughly. 
Add  lemon  and  flour,  stir  quickly  and  lightly  and  put  in  the  oven. 
— Mrs.  James  Squire. 

Sponge  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  six  eggs,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder.    Beat  the  whites  to  a  stifif  froth,  mix  the  yolks 


156  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

and  sugar  thoroughly.  Then  add  whites.  Stir  for  ten  minutes. 
Add  flour  well  mixed  with  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  lemon. — 
Mrs.  Mary  Bentley. 

Mother's  Sponge  Cake. — Eight  eggs,  one  pint  of  sugar,  one 
pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  flavoring :  Beat  eggs 
separately.  When  yolks  are  very  light,  add  sugar.  Beat  fifteen 
minutes,  then  add  the  flour  and  the  whites,  stirring  together  as 
lightly  as  possible. — Mrs.  Mason  Evans. 

Easy  Sponge  Cake. — Three  eggs  beaten  one  minutes.  Add 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  beat  five  minutes ;  one  cup  of 
flour  beaten  one  minute,  one-half  cup  of  cold  water  and  another 
cup  of  flour  in  which  has  been  mixed  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Beat  one  minute.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Wm. 
Edwards. 

Rolled  Sponge  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour, 
three  eggs,  lemon  juice,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Spread 
with  jelly  and  roll  as  soon  as  removed  from  the  oven. — Mrs.  M. 
C.  Wick. 

Plain  Cake. — Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter,  add  one  cup  of 
sugar  gradually,  then  one  Qgg  beaten  light.  Add  first  a  little  milk, 
then  a  little  flour  until  you  have  mixed  one  cup  of  milk  with  two 
cups  of  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Add  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  nutmeg  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  To 
be  eaten  hot  and  fresh.  Frosting  for  same :  One  cup  of  sugar, 
one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  water;  boil  until  it  waxes  and  pour  over 
the  slightly  beaten  white  of  one  tgg. — Mrs.  G.  S.  Peck. 

Gold  Cake. — The  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  one  whole  egg,  one- 
half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  three-fourths 
of  a  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda. — Mrs.  T.  H.  Wilson. 

Gold  Cake. — Sugar  one  and  one-half  cups,  butter  one-half 
cup,  milk  one  cup,  flour  (measured  before  sifting)  two  and  one- 
half  cups,  yolks  of  eggs  four,  baking  powder  three  teaspoonfuls. 
— Mrs.  J.  L.  Wick, 

Silver  Cake. — Whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cup.s 
of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  soda. — Mrs.  T.  H.  Wilson. 


CAKES  157 

White  Cake. — Butter  one-half  cup  pressed  in  solid,  sugar 
two  cups  granulated,  flour  two  and  one-half  cups,  baking  powder 
two  even  teaspoonfuls,  water  one  cup,  whites  of  four  eggs,  vanilla. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  flour  mixed  with  baking 
powder.  Stir  until  like  corn  meal,  then  add  water  and  whites  of 
eggs,  then  flavoring.  Beat  well  after  cake  is  mixed.  Bake  in 
three  layers  in  hot  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Use  with 
this  Minnehaha  filling. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Wick,  St.  Louis. 

White  Cake. — Stir  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  butter  with  two 
of  powdered  sugar,  add  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  Gx 
baking  powder.  Flavor  with  rose  or  lemon  extract. — Mrs.  C.  H. 
Gilman. 

Delicate  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  flour,  whites  of 
eight  eggs,  three  small  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  sliced  cit- 
ron.— Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 

Railroad  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  three 
eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  soda  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 

Dolly  Varden  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  three 
eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tar- 
tar ;  flavor  with  lemon.  Bake  one-half  of  this  in  two  pans.  To  the 
remainder  add  one  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  chopped 
raisins,  one-half  cup  of  currants,  a  piece  of  citron  chopped  fine, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  two 
pans  and  put  in  sheets  alternately  with  a  little  jelly  or  white  of  an 
egg  beaten  to  a  froth. — Mrs.  W.  Lawthers. 

Marble  Cake. — For  white  part :  One  cup  of  butter,  three 
cups  of  sugar,  five  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  flavor  with 
lemon.  The  dark  part :  One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of 
brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  four  cups 
of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  whole 
egg,  soices  of  all  kinds.  Put  in  a  pan  first  a  layer  of  dark,  then 
a  layer  of  light  and  finish  with  a  dark  layer. — Mrs.  Frank  Wick. 


158  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

White  Mountain  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  six  eggs  (save  the  whites 
of  two  for  frosting),  one  quart  of  flour  not  very  full,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder. — Mrs.  M.  I-  Arms. 

White  Mountain  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of 
sugar ;  work  the  butter  to  a  cream ;  four  cups  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  one-half 
cup  of  milk.  Whites  of  ten  eggs.  Flavor  with  lemon. — Mrs. 
Fred  Lewis. 

Almond  Custard  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one-half 
pound  of  butter ;  cream  well.  Five  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
pound  of  flour.  Custard  :  One  cup  of  thick  sour  cream,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  one  pound  of  sweet  almonds  blanched  and  chopped  fine. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Mix  and  spread  between  the  layers. — Mrs. 
W.  S.  Matthews. 

Layer  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  six 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  The  dark  part :  One 
cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  two 
cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  brandy.  Chop  fruit,  raisins  and  cur- 
rants and  add  enough  of  it  and  spice  to  taste.  Two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder.  Put  together  with  soft  frosting  a  layer  of  light, 
one  of  dark,  another  of  light. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Woodman. 

Gentlemen's  Favorite. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  seven  eggs  beaten  separately.  Two  cups  of  flour,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water,  two  small  tablespoonfuls  of  baking-pow- 
der. For  jelly :  One  tgg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  grated  apples 
and  one  lemon  ;  stir  until  it  boils  and  let  cool  before  using.  Spread 
between  layers. — Mrs.  John  D.  Morris. 

Pineapple  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  six  eggs  and 
yolks  of  four,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  well  mixed 
through  the  flour.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans.  Grate  a  pineapple, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  spread  between  the  layers.  Pineapple  jam 
may  be  substituted.  Frost  the  outside.  Beat  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  pineapple  into  the  frosting. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 


CAKES  1 59 

Federal  or  Queen's  Cake. — One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound 
of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  four  eggs,  one  teacup  of  cream, 
one  pound  of  fruit,  one  nutmeg. — Mrs.  W.  Edwards. 

Cocoanut  Cake. — One  and  one-half  tumblers  of  sugar,  one 
tumbler  of  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  large  spoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Put  together  with  soft  frosting. 
Sprinkle  with  grated  cocoanut,  Cover  the  top  with  the  same. — 
Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Cocoanut  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  fine  sugar, 
one  cup  of  milk,  three  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, the  whites  of  eight  eggs.  Bake  in  four  jelly  cake  pans  and 
put  together  with  soft  frosting  and  grated  cocoanut.  Frosting : 
Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  and  five  teaspoonfuls  of  fine  sugar 
to  each  egg,  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  This  requires  a  thorough 
beating. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

Orange  Cake. — Make  a  silver  cake  and  bake  in  jelly  cake 
pans ;  one  large  orange  grated,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg  (one 
large  or  two  small  ones).  Cook  all  until  a  jelly  and  spread  be- 
tween the  layers. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Orange  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  four 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  jelly  cake  pans 
and  put  together  with  a  paste  made  as  follows :  Juice  and  part 
rind  of  one  orange,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg.  Heat  until 
it  thickens. — Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

Never  Fail  Cup  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Gilman. 

Pound  Cake. — One  pound  of  flour,  three-fourths  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  ten  eggs,  one  nutmeg  and  a  little 
wine  or  brandy. — Mrs.  Wm.  Lawthers. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  five  eggs,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  thin  layers.  Three  small 
cups  of  sugar  dissolved  in  a  little  water  and  boil  until  done  for 
candy ;  cool  a  little  and  pour  over  the  unbeaten  whites  of  eggs 
and  beat  together  half  an  hour. — Mrs.  G.  Borts. 


l60  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

Corn  Starch  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  corn  starch,  one  cup  of  milk,  whites 
of  seven  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  or  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. — Miss 
Laura  Wick. 

Bread  Cake. — Three  teacups  of  light  bread  dough,  three 
teacupfuls  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  a  small  wine 
glass  of  brandy,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cinnamon,  two  nutmegs.  Mix  sugar,  brandy,  butter  and 
spices  together  as  for  cake ;  then  add  dough,  one  handful  of  flour, 
one  teacupful  of  seeded  raisins,  one  teacupful  of  currants.  When 
well  mixed  together,  put  in  a  pan  and  let  rise  quite  light  before 
baking. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Moravian  Light  Cake. — Mash  alone  one  cup  of  fresh  boiled 
potatoes ;  mix  with  this  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  thin 
yeast.  Mix  at  4  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  in  summer,  or  at  noon 
in  winter.  Let  it  rise  until  9  in  the  evening,  then  add  one  scant 
cup  of  butter,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  one-third  of  a  cup  of  milk, 
a  little  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  quite  a  soft  dough ;  knead  and 
let  rise  until  morning,  then  divide  into  five  or  six  parts.  Pat  out 
flat  on  plate  or  pie  pans.  Let  rise  again  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  Before  putting  them  into  the  oven,  make  thumb-holes  all 
over  them  ;  fill  with  butter  sugar,  cinnamon  and  nutmeo-.  Sprinkle 
white  sugar  over  the  top  and  bake. — Miss  Hamilton,  Philadelphia. 

Coffee  Cake. — Two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
in  gpowder,  three  even  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt ;  sift  together.  One  cup  of  milk,  one  e^s;;,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Spread  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon  and  bake  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Booth. 

Scotch  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour, 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  raisins  (seeded 
and  chopped),  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron,  nine  eggs,  one 
lemon  rind  grated  and  the  juice,  one  wine  glass  of  brandy,  fruit 
added  last.    Bake  fully  two  hours. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Kanifmann. 

Blueberry  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg  mix  together.  One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  ripe  berries  well 
sprinkled  with   flour. — Mrs.    W.  H.  Hiidnut. 


CAKES 


i6i 


Blueberry  Tea  Cake. — Two  cups  of  flour,  one  scant  cup 
of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  small  piece  of  butter 
(melted),  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Look  over  one 
pint  of  blueberries  and  with  a  little  sugar  add  the  last  thing. 
Bake  in  one  large  loaf  about  two  inches  thick.  Serve  hot.  It 
is  nice  to  split  it  when  eating  and  spread  with  butter. — Mrs.  C. 
H.   Booth. 

Gingerbread  Without  Eggs.— One  pint  of  molasses,  one 
of  milk,  one-half  pint  of  shortening,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda, 
one  tablespoonful  of  ginger.— Afr^.  S.  /.  McElevey. 

Soft  Gingerbread. — Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one-half  cup 
of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup 
of  sour  milk  (in  this  dissolve  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  soda), 
two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  three  cups  of  flour,  then  add 
one  cup  of  raisins. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Pollock. 

Soft  Gingerbread. — One-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cin- 
namon, ginger  and  cloves ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  dissolve  m 
a  cup  of  boiling  water;  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  and  no 
more,  two  well  beaten  eggs  stirred  in  the  last  thing  before 
baking.  Bake  in  gem  pans  or  a  loaf.  This  may  seem  too  thin 
but  do  not  change  recipe  and  it  will  be  O.  K.—Mrs.  Fox,  Sae- 
gertown. 

Soft  Gingerbread.— One  teacup  of  sugar,  one  teacup  of 
butter,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  four 
cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the 
milk. — Mrs.  Mason  Evans. 

Gingerbread.— One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  molasses  (the  best  Orleans),  three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup 
of  sour  milk  or  cream,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  even  full  of 
soda  in  the  milk,  one  tablespoon  rounding  full  of  ginger,  one 
tablespoonful  of  cinnamon.— Mr.?.  W.  D.  Euwer. 

Soft  Gingerbread.— One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  sour  cream,  one  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  four 
cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  tablespoonful    of    ginger,    two    table- 


l62  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

spoonfuls  of  soda,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  three  eggs  well 
beaten.  Stir  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  eggs,  milk  and 
flour. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

Good  Gingerbread. — Two  eggs  well  beaten,  three-fourths 
of  a  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  sour  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  ginger,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  and  stirred  into 
the  molasses.     Bake  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  Sydney  Strong. 


ICING  FOR  CAKE 


Marshmallow  Icing.— Stir  five  tablespoonfuls  of  pure 
gum  arable  into  a  scant  half  cupful  of  cold  water ;  then  stir  in  a 
half  cupful  of  powdered  sugar^  and  when  this  is  dissolved,  put 
over  the  fire  in  a  porcelain  lined  sauce  pan  and  boil  steadily  until 
a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  forms  a  soft  ball  between  the  thumb 
and  forefinger.  Have  the  white  of  an  tgg  beaten  stiff  enough 
to  stand  alone,  and  strain  the  hot  mixture  into  this,  beating  the 
white  of  the  egg  steadily  as  you  do  so.  Flavor  with  vanilla ;  dip 
a  knife  in  hot  water,  and  with  it  spread  the  marshmallow  filling 
on  the  cake. 

Boiled  Icing.— One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar;  put  to 
this  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Let  it  boil  on  back  of  stove 
until  it  is  waxy,  or  stringy ;  then  add  whites  of  two  eggs.— Mr^. 
Fred  Lewis. 

Boiled  Icing.— Whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  one  pint 
of  sugar,  melted  in  water,  and  then  boiled;  add  to  it  the  eggs, 
and  beat  until  cold.— Mm  Carrie  McClure. 

CocoANUT  Cake  Frosting.— Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  for  each  egg  add  one  teaspoonful  of  pul- 
verized sugar.  Beat  in  the  sugar  until  stifif.  Spread  the  layers 
of  cake  with  frosting,  then  sprinkle  over  a  liberal  amount  of 
fresh,  grated  cocoanut  and  cover  top  and  sides  of  cake  with 
frosting,  then  grated  cocoanut. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

TuTTi  Fruitti  Frosting.— One-half  teacup  of  water,  three 
cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs;  boil  sugar  and  water  until 
very  thick  and  waxy ;  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
pour  the  syrup  over  them,  beating  all  till  cool.  Then  add  one- 
half  pound  of  almonds,  chopped  fine;  one  small  half  teacup  of 
large  white  raisins,  and  a  little  citron,  sliced  thin.  Very  nice  for 
sponge  cake. — Miss  Lide  Wick. 


164  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Chocolate  Icing. — One-half  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate 
grated  fine,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk  or 
cream ;  boiled  and  stirred  to  a  paste. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Frosting. — Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  and  five  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  fine  sugar  to  each  egg,  the  juice  of  one  lemon ;  this  re- 
quires a  thorough  beating. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

Lemon  Cream  for  Cake. — Two  lemons  grated,  rind  and 
all,  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  six 
eggs ;  beat  the  eggs  very  light ;  heat  the  butter,  sugar  and  lemon, 
stir  in  the  eggs  slowly ;  let  the  mixture  boil  a  few  minutes,  stir- 
ring constantly ;  when  cold,  spread  on  the  cakes  as  you  would 
jelly. — Miss  Gertrude  Jones,  Washington  City. 

Fig  Dressing  for  Cake. — One  pound  of  figs  cup  up  fine, 
one  cup  of  sugar ;  cover  sugar  with  water  and  boil  until  waxy, 
then  add  the  figs  and  cook  until  a  paste ;  spread  between  layers 
of  cake  while  the  figs  are  warm,  and  when  the  cake  is  cold.  A 
tablespoonful  of  sherry  wine  stirred  into  the  figs  improves  them. 

Minnehaha  Filling. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar, 
one-third  cup  of  water ;  boil  until  it  spins  a  good  thread ;  then 
pour  on  well  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Stir  until  thick  and 
cool.  Frost  top  layer,  then  add  to  frosting  two-thirds  cup  of 
raisins  snipped  with  scissors. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Wick,  St.  Louis. 

Caramel  Frosting. — One  cup  of  light  brown  sugar ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  butter ;  one-fourth  cup  of  water ;  cook  until  it 
ropes ;  stir  until  it  begins  to  grain ;  then  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.     Spread  quickly  on  cake. 


SMALL  CAKES 


Cream  Cakes. — One  cup  of  hot  water,  one-half  cup  of 
butter ;  set  on  the  stove  in  a  tin  dish,  and  when  it  boils,  add  one 
cup  of  flour  and  cook  until  quite  thick.  Take  off  and  let  cool. 
Add  three  well-beaten  eggs,  one  small  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  drop  into  a  pan,  a  small  teaspoonful  in  each  place.  Leave 
quite  a  space  between  each.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  cool 
oven. 

Cream  for  Cakes. — Scald  two  cups  milk,  add  two  eggs,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  Flavor 
to  taste.  Cook  quick  by  setting  pail  in  boiling  water.  Cut  the 
cakes  open  and  fill  with  the  cream. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Woodman. 

Cream  Puffs. — Boil  one  pint  of  water,  rub  together  one- 
half  pound  of  butter  with  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour ; 
stir  into  the  water  while  boiling.  When  it  thickens  like  starch 
remove  from  the  fire.  When  cool  stir  into  it  ten  well  beaten 
eggs,  and  one  small  teaspoon  of  soda.  Drop  the  mixture  onto 
buttered  tins  with  a  large  spoon.  Bake  until  a  light  brown,  in 
a  quick  oven.  When  done,  open  on  one  side  and  fill  with  mock 
cream,  made  as  follows :  One  cup  of  fine  sugar,  four  eggs,  one 
cup  of  flour,  one  quart  of  milk.  Beat  eggs  to  a  froth ;  stir  in  the 
sugar,  then  flour.  Stir  them  into  the  milk  while  boiling.  Stir 
till  it  thickens.  Then  remove  from  the  fire  and  flavor  with  lemon 
or  vanilla.  It  should  not  be  put  into  puffs  until  cold. — Mrs.  G. 
W.  Haney. 

Cream  Puffs. — One-half  cup  of  butter ;  melt  it  in  one  cup 
of  boiling  water,  and  boil ;  stir  in  one  cup  of  flour  while  boiling ; 
cool ;  stir  in  three  eggs,  one  after  another,  without  beating.  Drop 
on  buttered  tins,  and  bake  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Filling  for  Puffs. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk ;  one-half  cup 
of  sugar ;  one  egg ;  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch. — Mrs. 
R.  Zimmerly. 


l66  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Cream  Drops. — Three- fourths  pound  of  sugar  ;  three-fourths 
pound  of  flour;  one-half  pound  of  butter;  one-half  pound  of 
currants ;  four  eggs ;  beat  whites  of  eggs  very  light,  and  add  last. 
Flavor  with  grated  rind  of  lemon ;  drop  on  tins  and  bake  in  slow 
oven. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Kauffmann. 

Chocolate  E'Claires. — One  and  three-fourths  cups  of  flour, 
three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one-half  pint  of  water.  Boil  the 
butter  and  water  together  and  stir  in  the  flour  by  degrees  while 
boiling.  Let  it  cool,  add  five  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  without  beating, 
until  thoroughly  stirred  in,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Drop 
the  mixture  in  tins,  about  half  as  large  as  liked  when  baked,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  cold,  make  a  hole  in  the  side  with  a 
knife  and  fill  with  the  following  cream :  One  pint  of  milk,  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  three  eggs ; 
dissolve  in  a  little  milk.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  stir  in 
the  corn  starch,  then  stir  into  milk  while  boiling.  Flavor.  Take 
one-half  cake  of  grated  chocolate,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  cream.  Boil  and  stir  to  a  smooth  paste ;  then 
with  a  knife  spread  on  the  outside  of  the  puffs. — Mrs.  Henry 
Wick. 

Meringues,  a  la  Creme  with  Candied  Cherries. — Beat 
the  whites  of  six  eggs  until  foamy,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar,  and  beat  until  dry;  fold  into  the  mixture  one 
cup  and  a  half  of  powdered  sugar,  and  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
extract.  Cover  one-half  inch  boards  with  oiled  paper,  a  tack  at 
each  end;  put  the  mixture  in  large  spoonfuls  upon  the  paper,  sift 
a  little  sugar  over  the  top,  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven 
about  forty-five  minutes,  to  dry,  rather  than  bake.  The  instant 
the  board  is  removed  from  the  oven,  remove  the  tacks  and  invert 
the  paper  and  meringues.  Take  from  the  paper,  scoop  out  the 
soft  center,  sprinkle  them  on  the  inside  with  sugar  and  return  to 
the  oven  to  dry.  Fill  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and 
flavored;  add  candied  cherried  here  and  there. — Mrs.  J.  M. 
Bonne  II. 

Meringues. — Whites  four  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  one  pound  of 
pulverized  sugar,  added  very  slowly.  Flavor  to  taste.  Two  table- 
spoonfuls  arrowroot;  try  in  quick  oven.  Bake  on  oiled  paper  in 
pans.  If  they  do  not  raise  add  more  arrowroot.  These  are  ex- 
cellent filled  with  ice  cream  or  jam. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Pollock,  Cleve- 
land. 


SMALL    CAKES  167 

Hermits. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  scant  cup 
of  butter,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  chopped  raisins,  one-half  cup  of  sour  milk,  three  eggs,  one- 
half  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one-half  tea- 
spoon nutmeg.  Drop  in  the  pan  with  a  spoon. — Mrs.  Mason 
Evans. 

Cookies. — Three  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one-half  cup  of  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  little 
less  than  a  quart  of  flour,  drop  in  pan  to  bake. — Mrs.  H.  W.  Ford. 

HiCKORYNUT  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
four  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  chopped 
nuts,  and  one  small  teaspoonf ul  of  soda,  three  eggs ;  dip  in 
sugar. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Almond  Cookies, — Two  pounds  of  butter,  three  pounds  of 
sugar,  one  pound  of  shelled  almonds,  one  dozen  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  cup 
of  boiling  water,  one  lemon  grated;  mix  butter,  sugar,  yolk  of 
eggs,  lemon,  cinnamon  and  hot  water ;  beat  the  whites,  take  three 
parts,  mix  also  one-half  of  the  almonds,  and  as  much  flour  as  it 
will  hold;  roll  them  and  brush  with  the  whites  of  eggs.  Before 
putting  in  the  almonds  and  sugar,  almonds  must  be  scalded, 
dried  and  cut  fine.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

"Birdie's"  Cookies. — Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of 
butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Make 
dough  very  soft. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Gilman. 

Lemon  Cookies. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of 
lard,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  three 
large  teaspoons  of  baking  ammonia  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  milk 
warmed,  five  cents'  worth  of  oil  of  lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
flour  to  roll  stiff.  Cut  them  out,  and  prick  with  a  fork  before 
baking. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Ensign. 

Jumbles. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  four 
teaspoonfuls  of  sweet  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  knead  with  flour  just  stiff  enough 
to  roll.  After  they  are  cut,  dip  one  side  in  fine  sugar,  three  eggs. 
— Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 


l68  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Jumbles. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs, 
stir  light  as  for  cake;  enough  flour  to  roll  out;  blanch  almonds 
and  separate  them,  pressing  the  halves  into  the  cookies  before 
baking  them. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Brownies. — Cream  one-third  cup  of  butter,  add  one-third 
cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one-third  cup  molasses;  one  tgg  well 
beaten,  and  seven-eights  cup  of  bread  flour ;  then  add  one  cup  of 
pecan  nuts  broken  finely.  Bake  in  lady  finger  tins  with  half  the 
meat  of  a  pecan  on  each  cake. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Sampson. 

Sand  Tarts. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  ten 
ounces  of  butter,  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Roll  thin,  wash  with 
whites  of  egg,  stew  with  finely  cut  almonds  or  peanuts,  cinnamon 
and  sugar.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Kaiiffmann. 

Oat  Flake  Cakes. — Two  cups  of  any  brand  of  rolled  oats, 
one  cup  of  sugar  (soft  A),  or  fair  brown,  one  cup  of  butter,  three 
cups  of  white  flour,  two-thirds  cup  of  sour  milk,  and  one  tea- 
spoon soda.  Flavored  with  a  handful  of  one-half  raisins  and 
dates  chopped  very  fine.  Rub  the  oat  flake  all  up  fine,  add  the 
sifted  flour,  then  raisins  and  dates,  rub  the  shortening  in  as  for 
pie  crust,  then  moisten  with  the  sour  milk,  roll  thin,  and  sand 
with  granulated  sugar. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Stezvart. 

Sugar  Cakes. — Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  sour  cream,  one  nutmeg,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda, 
(leave  dough  very  soft). — Mrs.  W.  D.  Enzver. 

Scotch  Cookies. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  butter  and 
lard  mixed,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  ginger,  one  teaspoon  soda 
in  the  sour  milk,  three  pints  flour. — Mrs.  IV.  D.  Euzver. 

Ginger  Cookies. — Two  cups  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one- 
half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  lard,  one  cup  of  milk,  flour  to 
thicken,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger, 
other  spices  to  suit  the  taste ;  mix  molasses,  lard,  butter,  milk, 
soda  and  ginger.  Put  on  the  fire  and  let  warm,  but  not  get  hot ; 
then  add  the  flour  and  let  it  stand  over  night.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

Ginger  Cookies. — Two  cups  of  molasses,  (Orleans),  one 
cup  of  butter,  one  egg,  two  teaspoons  of  soda,  two  teaspoons 
of  ginger  (scant),  flour  enough  to  roll  stiff. — Mrs.  George 
Borts. 


SMALL    CAKES  169 

Ginger  Cookies. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  beat  light ; 
two-thirds  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  one  cup  of  molasses, 
three  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  of 
ginger,  sift  flour.  Much  nicer  to  mix  and  let  stand  in  cellar  over 
night. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Stewart. 

Ginger  Gems. — One-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Flour  to  thicken.  Two 
well  beaten  eggs. — Mrs.  Mason  Evans. 

Ginger  Crackers. — One  pint  of  molasses,  one-half  pound 
of  butter,  melted,  one-half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  spoon  of 
hot  water,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  ground  ginger  if  desired, 
flour  to  make  stiff;  roll  very  thin;  bake  on  tin. — Mrs.  A.  E. 
Kauffmann. 

Ginger  Snaps. — Three  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter, 
one  quart  of  molasses  (best  Orleans),  one-half  pound  sugar 
(brown),  one  ounce  ginger,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one-half 
ounce  cloves.  Roll  thin.  These  are  very  good,  and  will  keep  a 
long  time  if  kept  in  a  dry  place. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Euwer. 

Ginger  Snaps. — One  full  cup  of  shortening,  two  cups  of 
brown  sugar,  two  of  molasses ;  boil  together  a  short  time  and 
then  let  cool.  Sift  four  cups  of  flour  with  one-half  tablespoonful 
of  ground  cloves,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  allspice,  two  of  ginger,  one  nutmeg,  last  of  all,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water ;  then  let  cool.  It  is 
better  to  use  one  part  butter.  Make  in  small  rolls  with  hand, 
then  cut  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  giving  them  plenty 
of  room  in  the  pans  to  spread.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Let 
them  cool  before  taking  out  of  the  pans. — Mrs.  Jane  Hughs. 

Raised  Ginger  Snaps. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of 
molasses,  one  cup  of  milk,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  one  table- 
spoonful of  ginger ;  stir  up  stiff  over  night ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
—Mrs.  R.  J.  Wick. 

Ginger  Snaps. — One  cup  of  butter  heaping  full,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one-third  of  a  cup  of  cold  water 
poured  over  the  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  and 
added  to  the  molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  if  it  is  fresh ; 
flour  enough  to  roll  very  thin. — Mrs.  Sidney  Strong. 


I/O  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Soft  Ginger  Cakes. — One  pint  of  molasses,  one-half  pint 
of  milk,  almost  one-half  pint  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda  put  in  the  molasses ;  put  in  the 
molasses ;  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger.  Mix  up  quickly  and  soft. 
— Miss  Belle  Robbins. 

Ma'am  Polly's  Ginger  Cakes. — Six  pounds  of  flour,  one 
pound  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
one  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  spoonful  of  soda,  one  spoonful  of 
pulverized  alum  (boil  the  alum  in  one-half  pint  of  water  three 
minutes),  one-half  gallon  of  molasses.  Make  up  your  dough, 
roll  one-half  inch  thick.     Bake  ten  minutes. 

Taylor  Cakes. — Six  ounces  of  brown  sugar,  six  ounces  of 
butter,  one  pint  of  baking  molasses,  one-half  pint  of  thick  milkj, 
one  and  one-half  pounds  of  flour,  one  ounce  of  baking  soda,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon.  Warm  the  butter  and  molasses  to- 
gether.   Drop  on  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Adr.  Paul  Wick. 

Taylor  Cakes. — One  ounce  baking  soda  dissolved  in  one- 
half  pint  of  thick  milk,  five  eggs,  and  one-half  pound  of  sugar 
well  beaten  in ;  one  pint  molasses  and  one-half  pound  butter.  To 
make  a  soft  batter  will  require  about  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
flour.  Drop  and  bake  on  tins  about  eight  on  ten  minutes. — Mrs. 
A.  E.  Kauffmann. 

Graham  Cookies. — Two  and  one-half  cups  of  graham  or 
whole  wheat  flour,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one- 
half  cup  of  hot  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  large  spoon 
rich  cream ;  roll  thin. — Miss  Caddie  Boris. 

Cinnamon  Cookies. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter^ 
three  eggs ;  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately ;  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  soda  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  of  cream,  flour  sufficient 
to  roll  lightly  m  the  hand,  and  press  in  fine  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
— Mrs.  Wni.  Lawthers. 

Fried  Cakes. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  buttermilk 
(or  sour  milk),  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  one 
even  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  two 
eggs,  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  Put  flour  in  pan, 
make  a  hole  in  center  and  mix  together. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Pollock. 


SMALL    CAKES  I7I 

Fried  Cakes. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
sour  milk,  two  eggs,  two  scant  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  half 
nutmeg  grated,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one 
teaspoon  soda.  Make  a  little  stiffer  than  biscuit  dough,  roll  out 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  out  with  fried  cake  cutter  with 
hole  in  center.     Fry  in  hot  fat. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Kanengeiser. 

Fried  Cakes. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  five  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  pint  of  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder;  mix  soft. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Fried  Cakes. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  three 
eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  mix  as  soft  as  possible ; 
have  lard  hot  before  putting  in  cakes  to  fry. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

Doughnuts. — One  cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  quart  of  flour,  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  extra  flour  to  roll ;  flavor  with 
nutmeg.     Fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs    lohii  D.  Wick. 

Raised  Doughnuts. — Three  teacups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  lard,  four  cups  of  milk,  two  cups  of  yeast,  one 
nutmeg,  four  eggs  and  a  little  salt ;  sponge  them,  putting  in  all 
the  ingredients  of  flour  and  milk,  and  add  the  remainder  in  the 
morning;  if  you  have  not  a  soft  yeast,  set  a  sponge  in  the 
morning;  when  light,  roll  out  about  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut 
with  a  wine  glass,  let  rise  again  before  frying. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Doughnuts. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two 
eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  flour  to  roll,  cut  in  balls,  and  roll  in  fine  sugar 
while  hot. — Mrs.   Wm.  Lawthers. 

My  Grandmother's  Crullers.  (1823). — Three  eggs,  three 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Flavor 
with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon;  mix  quite  stiff  and  roll  in  rather  thin 
sheet.  Cut  in  shapes  with  a  jagging  iron  and  fry  in  boiling  fat. 
They  cook  very  quickly. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Kanengeiser. 

Rich  Crullers. — Ten  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  ten  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar,  five  eggs,  a  little  salt,  nutmeg,  flour  enough 
to  roll— Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick. 


1/2  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Plain  Crullers. — Four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
four  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  teacup  of  buttermilk  or  sour 
milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg. — Mrs.  H.  B.   Wick. 

Chocolate  Kisses. — Beat  until  light  the  whites  of  ten  eggs, 
add  slowly  twenty-four  teaspoonfuls  of  fine  sugar,  and  when 
smooth,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.    Bake  fifteen  minutes. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Woodman. 

Maccaroons. — One-half  pound  of  almonds  blanched,  one- 
half  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  whites  of  eggs,  one  by  one.  Pound  the 
almonds  in  a  mortar,  occasionally  putting  in  a  little  rose  water  to 
moisten ;  add  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs  until  they  are  very  stiff,  then 
add  enough  of  the  mixture  to  make  a  paste.  Take  a  little  flour 
in  your  hands  and  mold  them  into  small  cakes.  Bake  a  few 
minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  The  top  of  the  oven  should 
be  the  hottest. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Butler. 

Maccaroons. — One  pound  of  almonds  in  the  shell,  three 
eggs,  one-half  pound  of  white  sugar;  soak  the  almonds  in  hot 
water,  remove  the  skins,  grate  or  pound  and  mix  with  rosewater, 
beat  the  eggs  to  a  stifif  froth,  add  sugar  and  almonds,  drop  on 
buttered  pans  with  a  spoon. — Mrs.  J.  H.  BiishneU. 

Hickory  Nut  Maccaroons. — Whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten 
stiff.  Stir  into  these,  very  lightly,  one  pound  of  icing  sugar 
sifted,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  with  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder,  mixed  in  the  flour,  and  one  pound  of  hickory 
nut  meats  chopped  fine.  Drop  on  greased  sheets  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  If  not  enough  flour  add 
another  spoonful,  but  no  more. — Mrs.  R.  Bentley. 

Creole  Kisses. — Whites  of  three  eggs,  one-half  pound  of 
sugar,  one-half  pound  of  pecan  nuts.  Put  the  whites  in  a  bowl, 
beat,  then  add  sugar  and  beat  more,  not  with  an  egg  beater  but 
with  fork  or  spoon.  Beat  until  dry  (thirty  or  forty  minutes), 
then  add  the  nuts  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  milk.  Put  brown 
paper  in  pan  and  drop  the  kisses ;  let  them  bake  until  they  crack 
and  then  place  in  the  upper  part  of  oven  until  they  become  a  light 
brown. — Mrs.   W.  H.  Hudnut. 

Peppernuts. — Three  pounds  of  powdered  sugar,  twelve  eggs, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  allspice, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  cloves,  one-half  teaspoonful  mace,  six  tea- 


SMALL    CAKES  173 

spoonfuls  baking  powder,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  extract. 
Chop  fine  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  citron,  candied  lemon  and 
orange  peel,  red  pepper  to  taste. — Mrs.  T.  R.  Akin. 

German  Christmas  Cakes  (Lebkuchen). — One  pound 
of  strained  honey,  one-half  pound  of  molasses,  one  pound  of 
almonds  chopped  very  fine,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  one-half 
pound  of  citron  chopped  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  ground  nutmeg,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  small  glass  of  whiskey.  Warm  the  honey 
and  molasses,  pour  over  sugar  and  spices,  then  add  whiskey, 
flour  and  soda.  Roll  out,  cut  in  small  oblongs  and  bake.  When 
cold,  ice  with  white  boiled  icing. — Mrs.  T.  R.  Akin. 

CocoANUT  Drops. — One-half  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  one- 
half  pound  of  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs.  Bake  on  paper ;  drop 
the  cakes  a  little  distance  from  each  other. — Mrs.  R.  IV.  Tayler. 

Springerll — Four  pounds  of  powdered  sugar,  sixteen  eggs, 
beat  one  hour.  Two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  scant  tea- 
spoonful of  anise  oil,  flour  to  make  very  stifif.  Mold  and  dry  over 
night  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  next  morning.  (The  molds  can 
be  bought  for  the  Christmas  cakes  in  any  large  department  store)., 
—Mrs.  T.  R.  Akin. 


CANDIES 


CocoANUT  Candy. — Grate  very  fine  a  sound  cocoaniit; 
spread  it  on  a  dish  and  let  it  dry  naturally  for  three  days  as  h 
will  not  bear  the  heat  of  an  oven  and  too  oily  for  use  when  freshly 
broken.  Four  ounces  will  be  sufficient  for  a  pound  of  sugar,  but 
more  can  be  used  to  pleasure.  To  one  pound  of  sugar  take  one- 
half  pint  of  water,  a  very  little  of  white  of  egg,  and  then  pour 
over  the  sugar.  Let  it  stand  for  a  short  time,  then  place  over  a 
very  clear  fire  and  let  it  boil  for  a  few  moments.  Then  set  it 
aside  until  the  scum  has  subsided.  Clear  it  off  and  boil  the  sugar 
until  very  thick,  then  put  in  the  nut,  stir  and  mix  it  well  and  do 
not  quit  for  an  instant  until  it  is  finished.  The  pan  should  not 
be  placed  on  the  fire  but  over  it  as  the  nut  is  liable  to  brown  with 
too  fierce  a  heat. 

CocoANUT  Balls. — Mix  well  one  cup  of  grated  cocoanut  and 
one  cup  of  confectioners'  sugar.  To  this  add  one-half  table- 
spoonful  of  water  and  one-half  tablespoonful  of  lemon.  Form 
into  balls. — Miss  E.  E.  Evans. 

Cocoanut  Balls. — One-half  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  one- 
half  cup  of  confectioners'  sugar,  one  cup  of  cocoanut  well  mixed 
and  moistened  with  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and 
one-half  tablespoonful  of  vanilla.  Form  into  balls. — Miss  E.  E. 
Evans. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  warm 
water,  one-half  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of 
butter.  Let  boil  without  stirring  until  it  snaps  in  water.  Pour 
into  pans  and  let  cool. — Mrs.  M.  C.  Wick. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — One-half  pound  of  grated  chocolate, 
two  teacupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk  and  water,  a  lump 
of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  alum. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Chocolate  Pralines. — Four  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  cups 
of  milk,  one  cup  of  English  walnuts,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  one 


CANDIES  175 

tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  a  square  of  baker's  chocolate  grated.  Boil 
sugar  and  milk  ten  minutes,  then  add  butter.  Boil  until  it  gathers 
in  water  (but  not  crack).  Stir  while  boiling  and  after  it  is  taken 
off  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add  nuts  and  vanilla.  Pour 
on  buttered  platter  and  cut  in  squares. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Stezvart. 

Chocolate  Fudge. — Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cake  of  chocolate,  butter  size  of  a  walnut, 
vanilla  flavoring.  Stir  while  cooking  and  when  it  is  boiled,  till 
it  hardens  when  tried  in  water,  take  from  the  stove  and  beat  hard 
until  nearly  cold.     Then  pour  into  pans  until  cold. 

Almond  Candy. — Proceed  in  the  same  way  as  for  cocoanut 
candy.  Let  the  almonds  be  perfectly  dry  and  do  not  throw  them 
into  the  sugar  until  they  approach  the  candying  point. 

To  Candy  Nuts. — Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water. 
Boil  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  water,  then  flavor  with 
lemon.  It  must  not  boil  after  the  lemon  is  put  in.  Put  a  nut  on 
the  end  of  a  fine  knitting  needle,  dip  in  the  syrup,  take  out  and 
turn  on  the  needle  until  it  is  cold.  If  the  candy  gets  cold,  set  on 
the  stove  for  a  few  moments.  Malaga  grapes  and  oranges 
quartered  may  be  candied  in  the  same  way. — Miss  Sallie  Arms. 

Sugar  Candy. — Six  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  vinegar, 
one  cup  of  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  put  in  at  the  last  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Boil  without 
stirring  one-half  hour.  Flavor  to  suit  the  taste. — Mrs.  C.  H. 
Gilman. 

Cream  Candy — Four  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  water,  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  &gg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla,  a 
pinch  of  soda.  Let  it  boil  until  it  cracks  in  water.  Put  into  pans ; 
when  cool  enough  to  work,  work  until  very  light. — Miss  Jennie 
Arms. 

Maple  Candy. — Four  cups  of  maple  syrup.  Boil  until  it 
cracks  in  water  but  do  not  stir.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire, 
put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  If  preferred  waxy,  do 
not  let  it  cook  so  long. 

Butterscotch. — Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  butter.     Boil  until  done. — Miss  Hattie  Arms. 


176  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Marsh  MALLOWS. — Dissolve  one-half  pound  of  gum  arabic  in 
one  pint  of  water.  Strain.  Add  one-half  pound  of  granulated 
sugar.  Place  over  the  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved  and  the  mixture  takes  the  consistency  of  honey.  Add 
graduallly  the  whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  stirring  the  mix- 
ture steadilv  until  it  will  not  stick  to  the  fingers.  Pour  into  a 
pan  slightly  dusted  with  starch.  When  cool,  divide  into  small 
squares. 

Salted  Almonds. — Blanch  one  pound  of  shelled  almonds  by 
pouring  boiling  water  over  them  and  letting  them  stand  a  few 
moments,  when  the  skin  can  be  easily  removed.  Place  almonds 
in  a  dripping  pan,  set  in  the  oven  and  when  hot  put  over  them  in 
little  bits  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Stir  well  to  cover 
all  the  nuts  with  butter  and  keep  in  the  oven  until  a  light  brown 
and  crisp.  Then  sprinkle  liberally  with  salt.  Keep  in  a  dry 
place. 


Canned  Fruits,  Preserves  and  Jellies 


REMARKS. 


All  fruits  should  be  fresh  and  ripe.  Granulated  sugar  should 
always  be  used  and  also  a  porcelain  kettle.  Put  the  bottles  in 
a  pan  or  kettle  of  cold  water,  place  on  the  stove  until  the  water 
is  boiling  before  filling  with  the  fruit.     Do  not  use  an  iron  spoon. 

In  preserving,  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  For 
canning,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit 
and  a  little  water.  Preserved  fruits  can  be  put  in  tumblers  or 
small  jars  covered  with  egg  papers  or  melted  wax  run  over.  In 
canning  fruit  great  care  should  be  taken  to  have  the  jars  perfectly 
air  tight.     Keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

To  Can  Peaches. — Pare  and  halve  the  peaches,  pack  them  in 
tin  cans  as  close  as  they  can  possibly  be  put.  Make  a  syrup  of 
six  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  gallon  of  cold  water.  Let  this  stand 
until  well  dissolved,  then  pour  the  cold  syrup  over  the  peaches 
until  the  cans  are  even  full,  after  which  solder  it  oerfectly  tight. 
Place  the  cans  in  a  boiler,  cover  well  with  cold  water,  set  it  on 
the  fire  and  let  the  water  boil  five  minutes.  Then  take  the  cans 
out  and  turn  them  upside  down.  One  gallon  of  syrup  will  do  one 
dozen  cans. 

Rich  Canned  Peaches. — Pare  and  stone  peaches  about 
enough  for  two  jars  at  a  time  (if  many  are  pared  they  will  be- 
come dark  colored  standing),  rinse  in  cold  water,  then  cook  in 
a  rich  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
or  until  they  are  clear.  Put  into  your  jars  all  that  part  not  broken, 
fill  up  with  the  hot  syrup  (about  as  thick  as  corn  molasses)  and 
seal.  Same  syrup  will  do  to  cook  two  or  three  more  jars.  After 
the  syrup  becomes  dark,  this  with  broken  peaches,  can  be  used 
for  marmalade  or  peach  butter. 

Same  rule  can  be  used  for  pears,  plums  and  all  light  fruits 
that  you  desire  rich. — Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 


178  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Green  Gage  Plums. — After  stemming  and  washing  the 
fruit,  fill  the  jars  full,  placing  them  in  a  boiler  of  cold  water, 
just  enough  not  to  have  the  water  boil  over  the  top  of  the  jars 
into  the  fruit.  After  boiling  one-half  hour,  or  until  the  fruit 
begins  to  be  tender,  lift  out  the  jars  and  turn  off  the  juice  that 
may  accumulate  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  sufficient  sugar  to  make 
a  rich  syrup.  When  it  boils,  fill  up  the  jars,  let  them  stand  in  the 
boiling  water  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  longer,  then  lift  out  one  at  a 
time  and  seal.  All  kinds  of  plums  are  nice  put  up  in  the  same 
way. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Cherries. — Take  Morello  cherries,  wash,  and  remove  the 
pits,  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Make  a  syrup 
of  sugar  with  the  juice  and  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  cherries. 
Boil  from  five  to  ten  minutes,  turn  into  bottles  and  seal.  Some 
prefer  one  pint  of  sugar  to  one  quart  of  pitted  cherries. — Mrs.  C. 
D.  'Arms. 

Strawberries. — Procure  fresh,  large  strawberries  when  in 
their  prime  but  not  so  ripe  as  to  be  very  soft.  Hull  and  weigh 
them.  Take  an  equal  weight  of  sugar,  make  a  syrup  and  when 
boiling  hot  pour  in  the  berries.  A  small  quantity  should  only  be 
done  at  a  time.  If  crowded  they  will  become  mashed.  Let  them 
boil  about  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour.  Turn  into  tumblers 
or  small  jars  and  seal  wath  egg  papers  while  hot. — Mrs.  M.  I. 
Arms. 

Quinces. — Select  fair,  mild  apple  quinces  (the  inferior  ones 
can  be  used  for  jelly  or  marmalade),  pare  and  cut  into  quarters, 
removing  the  core.  For  each  pound  of  them  take  three-fourths  of 
a  pound  of  sugar,  a  quart  of  cold  water ;  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the 
water  over  a  moderate  fire.  Let  it  boil,  then  remove  from  the  fire ; 
when  cool,  put  in  the  quinces.  If  there  is  not  more  than  enough 
water  to  cover  them,  more  should  be  added  so  the  syrup  will  be 
thin.  If  too  rich  the  quinces  will  be  hard  and  shrink.  Boil  them 
gently  until  a  broom  straw  will  go  through  them  itself.  Keep 
them  covered  while  boiling  that  they  may  be  light  colored.  Put 
in  bottles  and  seal. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

To  Can  Pumpkin. — Cut  the  pumpkin  in  halves  and  steam. 
When  thoroughly  cooked  scrape  from  the  shell  and  put  through 
the  colander.  For  every  cup  of  pumpkin  add  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-four^th 


CANNED    FRUITS,    PRESERVES    AND   JELLIES  1 79 

of  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger.    Cook  until  quite  thick.    Put  in  Mason 
jars.    For  pumpkin  pies. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Ensign. 

Pineapple  Preserve. — Pare  and  core  and  cut  in  small  slices 
on  a  slaw  cutter.  To  a  pound  of  pineapple  put  one  pound  of 
sugar.  Let  it  boil  twenty  minutes,  put  in  jars  and  cover  with 
egg  papers. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Pineapple  Jam. — Pare,  core  and  grate  fine  on  a  grater.  Then 
proceed  as  for  pineapple  preserve. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Raspberry  Jam. — Allow  one  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of 
berries,  and  one  pint  of  currant  juice  to  five  pounds  of  berries, 
adding  one  extra  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pint  of  currant  juice. 
Mix  the  berries  and  sugar  in  layers,  then  mash  with  potato  masher. 
Add  currant  juice  and  let  boil  one-half  hour.  Put  in  tumblers 
and  cover  with  egg  papers  while  hot.  Make  blackberry,  straw- 
berry and  currant  jam  in  the  same  way,  omitting  the  currant 
juice. — Mrs.  M.  L  Arms. 

Strawberry  or  Raspberry  Jam. — To  one  pound  of  berries 
allow  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  sugar.  Heat  an  earthen  bowl 
hot  on  the  stove,  then  remove  it  from  the  stove  and  put  into  it 
the  berries  and  sugar  and  beat  them  hard  with  wooden  spoon  for 
as  much  as  an  hour  and  a  half.  Do  not  cook  at  all.  Put  in  jars 
with  egg  papers. — Miss  Jennie  Bonnell,  England. 

To  Can  Raspberries  and  Blackberries. — To  a  quart  of 
berries  allow  one  pint  of  sugar.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  and  put  in 
air-tight  jars. — Mrs.  M.  L  Arms. 

Cherry  Jam. — To  each  pound  of  cherries  allow  three-fourths 
of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Stone  them,  and  as  you  do  so.  throw  the 
sugar  gradually  into  the  dish  with  them.  Cover  and  let  them  set 
over  night.  Next  day  boil  slowly  until  the  cherries  and  sugar 
form  a  smooth  thick  mass.     Put  up  in  jars. — Miss  Leslie. 

Grapes. — Stew,  wash  and  weigh  tlie  fruit.  For  preserves 
add  one  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  For  canning,  one- 
half  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Remove  the  pulp,  put 
the  skins  and  pulp  in  separate  dishes.  Cook  the  pulp  and  strain 
through  a  sieve,  then  add  the  skins  and  sugar.  For  canning 
cook  fifteen  minutes.  For  preserving  a  little  longer. — Mrs.  R. 
McMillan. 


i8o 


THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 


Grape  Jelly. — Grapes  to  be  used  just  before  they  are  ripe 
and  just  turning.  Stem  the  grapes  and  sHghtly  cook  them.  Then 
strain  and  take  a  pint  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice.  It  makes  the 
jelly  of  a  light  red  color  and  much  finer  flavored  than  ripe  grapes. 
—Mrs.  P.  T.  Caldivell. 

Apple  Jelly. — Peel  two  dozen  Golden  Pippins.  Boil 
them  with  one  quart  of  water  and  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass. 
When  the  isinglass  is  dissolved  and  the  apples  reduced  to  a  pulp, 
strain.  Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  the  grated  rind  with  a 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  loaf  sugar.  Boil  together  twenty  minutes 
and  strain. — Miss  Lizzie  Bonnell. 

Apple  Jelly. — Quarter  the  apples  and  cover  them  with  water. 
Cook  and  strain  them  and  to  a  pint  of  juice  put  three-fourths  of 
a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  twenty  minutes  and  flavor  with  lemon 
or  vanilla. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Butler. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly. — Procure  the  Siberian  crab.  Select  those 
that  are  perfectly  formed,  wash  in  water  and  pour  over  them  just 
enough  water  to  cover.  Let  them  cook  until  soft,  then  strain 
through  a  jelly-bag.  Add  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of 
juice  and  let  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Currant  Jelly. — Choose  your  currants  before  they  are  too 
ripe.  Wash  clean  and  then  strain  the  juice  from  them  through 
a  jelly-bag  (without  cooking  them)  by  mashing  them  with  a 
potato  masher,  put  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  juice.  Boil 
twenty  minutes.  Seal  with  egg  in  tumblers.  Another  way  of 
making  this  is  to  let  the  juice  boil  twenty  minutes  before  adding 
the  sugar.  After  adding  the  sugar,  let  it  boil  up  for  a  few 
moments. 

Orange  Marmalade. — Separate  the  pulp  from  the  skin. 
Boil  the  skin  until  very  tender,  then  chop  fine.  Separate  as 
much  as  possible  the  white  part  from  the  yellow,  using  only  the 
yellow.  Then  to  one  pound  of  pulp  and  skins  add  one  pound  of 
sugar.     Boil  twenty  minutes. — Miss  Lizzie  Bonnell. 

Orange  Marmalade. — Six  oranges,  three  lemons  ;  slice  them. 
Add  three  pints  of  water  to  each  pint  of  fruit.  Let  oranges  and 
lemons  stand  in  the  water  over  night.  Next  day  cook  until  tender. 
Let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  add  one  pint  of  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  fruit.  Cook  until  it  jellies,  but  not  too  thick. — Mrs.  S.  J. 
McElevey. 


CANNED    FRUITS,   PRESERVES   AND   JELLIES  l8l 

Orange  Marmalade. — Six  oranges,  one  lemon,  six  quarts 
of  water,  six  pounds  of  sugar ;  slice  oranges  very  thin ;  put  in  a 
crock  and  let  stand  in  the  water  over  night ;  boil  half  away  and 
then  add  sugar  and  boil  until  yellow. — Mrs.  F.  G.  Evans. 

Orange  Marmalade. — Two  dozen  Messina  oranges,  one 
dozen  lemons.  Wash  the  fruit,  slice  up  as  thin  as  possible,  remove 
all  seeds,  cover  closely  for  thirty-six  hours.  Add  the  water  and 
boil  two  hours  from  time  of  boiling.  Add  the  sugar  and  boil 
again  one  hour  from  time  of  boiling. — Mrs.  T.  R.  Aiken. 

Green  Grape  Conserve. — Three  pounds  of  green  grapes, 
seed,  eight  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  raisins  and  the  juice  of 
two  lemons,  one  pint  of  water  and  stuffed  English  walnuts.  Boil 
twenty  minutes.  Conserve  can  be  made  of  any  fruit.  Especially 
fine  of  strawberries. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Stewart. 

Sunshine  Strawberries. — Strawberries  three  pounds,  sugar 
three  pounds,  boiling  water  two  cups.  Add  the  sugar  and  water 
together  until  it  spins  a  thread,  then  add  strawberries,  cook  fif- 
teen or  twenty  minutes  after  they  boil.  Then  spread  on  large 
platters,  place  in  the  sun  until  the  strawberry  is  very  thick,  then 
put  in  Mason  jars. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Wick. 

Quince  Marmalade. — Ten  pounds  of  ripe,  yellow  quinces. 
Wash  clean,  pare  and  core  them  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces. 
To  each  pound  of  quinces  allow  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar.  Cut 
the  parings  and  put  into  a  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover 
them.  Boil  slowly  until  quite  soft ;  then,  having  put  the  quinces 
with  the  sugar  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  strain  over  them  through 
a  cloth  the  liquid  from  the  parings  and  cover.  Boil  the  whole 
over  a  clear  fire  until  it  becomes  quite  smooth  and  thick,  keeping  it 
covered  except  when  you  are  skimming  it,  and  watching  and 
stirring  closely  to  prevent  sticking  at  the  bottom.  Pour  into 
porcelain  dishes  and  when  cold  can  be  sliced. 

Apple  Marmalade. — Twelve  pounds  of  apples,  three  pounds 
of  brown  sugar,  three  lemons.  Boil  slowly.  Mash  well. — Mrs. 
R.  W.  Tayler. 

Apple  Jam. — Ten  pounds  of  best  cooking  apples;  pare  and 
slice.  Seven  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons, 
rind  of  one  lemon.  Boil  all  together  slowly,  stir  and  mash  well. 
When  they  become  clear  put  into  molds.  The  apples  should  be 
put  in  water  to  preserve  their  color. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Tayler. 


1 82  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Apple  Butter. — One-half  bushel  of  Pippin  apples,  one  gallon 
of  sweet  fresh  cider.  Cook  together  thoroughly  and  put  through 
a  colander.  Place  on  the  fire  and  add  six  pounds  of  white  sugar. 
Stir  constantly  while  cooking  to  prevent  burning.  In  the  course 
of  two  or  three  hours,  take  a  little  out  in  a  dish  and  if  it  has  a 
watery  appearance  it  should  be  cooked  longer  or  until  quite  thick. 
—Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

Plum  Butter. — One-half  peck  of  plums,  one-half  bushel  of 
sweet  apples.  Cook  the  apples  and  plums  in  separate  kettles 
until  quite  soft,  only  putting  in  enough  water  to  prevent  sticking 
to  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  When  soft,  put  through  a  colander 
and  then  to  each  pound  of  mixture  allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound 
of  white  sugar.  Let  it  cook  for  a  short  time  and  bottle. — Mrs.  C, 
D.  Arms. 

Peach  Butter. — To  one  bushel  of  peaches  allow  from  eight 
to  ten  pounds  of  granulated  sugar;  pare  and  halve  the  peaches. 
Put  in  the  kettle  and  stir  constantly  (to  prevent  sticking  to  the 
kettle)  until  perfectly  smooth  and  rather  thick.  A  part  of  the 
peach  stones  thrown  in  and  cooked  with  the  peaches  give  it  a  nice 
flavor  and  they  can  be  afterwards  skimmed  out.  Add  the  sugar 
a  short  time  before  taking  from  the  fire.  Put  in  jars  and  cover 
tight.  Peaches  for  butter  should  be  neither  too  mealy  nor  too 
juicy. 

To  Preserve  Watermelon  Rind. — After  cutting  your  rind 
properly,  boil  it  in  clean  water  with  vine  leaves  between  each 
layer.  A  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  is  sufficient  for  a 
kettle  full.  After  boiling  it  put  it  into  ice  water  to  cool.  Then 
repeat  this  a  second  time,  each  time  putting  it  to  cool,  each  time 
boiling  one  hour.  Prepare  the  syrup  with  one  and  one-fourth 
pounds  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Green  ginger  boiled  in 
the  water  you  make  your  syrup,  will  flavor  it,  or  three  lemons  to 
six  pounds  of  fruit.  If  the  syrup  thickens  too  fast,  add  a  little 
water.  The  rind  should  be  boiled  in  the  water  until  clear  and 
green. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Tayler. 

To  Preserve  Watermelon  Rind. — Soak  the  fruit  in  salt 
water  three  days,  in  fresh  water  three  days.  Boil  in  alum  water, 
soak  in  fresh  water  over  a  day  and  night,  changing  the  water 
several  time.    Boil  in  ginger  water.    To  one  pound  of  fruit  add 


CANNED    FRUITS,   PRESERVES   AND   JELLIES  1 83 

one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  sugar  and  put  in  ginger  and  mHce, 
Flavor  with  oil  of  lemon. — Miss  Lide  Wick. 

Brandied  Fruit. — Take  two  quarts  of  California  brandy. 
Put  it  into  a  crock  at  the  beginning  of  the  fruit  season.  Commence 
by  putting  in  the  brandy  one  pound  of  pineapples  (pared  and 
quartered  and  then  sliced  on  a  slaw  cutter  very  thin).  To  each 
pound  of  fruit  add  or.e  pound  of  granulated  sugar.  The  next 
fruit  in  turn  is  strawberries.  Add  this  same  proportion.  Then 
follow  cherries  (which  are  stoned),  raspberries,  currants,  black- 
berries, peaches  and  plums,  etc.  Add  to  the  brandy  without  cook- 
ing and  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  one  pound  of  sugar.  Add  also  one 
pound  each  of  raisins  and  citron,  the  latter  sliced  thin.  Stir  fre- 
quently to  dissolve  sugar.  Keep  the  crock  covered  and  in  a  cool 
place. 

Spiced  Gooseberries. — Six  quarts  of  berries,  nine  pounds 
of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  cloves.  Dissolve  half  the  sugar,  put  in  berries,  cook- 
ing for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  put  in  remainder  of  sugar  and 
just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add  spices  and  vinegar. — Mrs.  S. 
J.  McElevey.  _ 

Chipped  Pear  Marmalade. — Eight  pounds  of  pears,  peel 
and  slice  very  thin.  Eight  pounds  of  white  sugar,  one-half  pound 
of  green  ginger  root  (scraped  and  cut  fine),  four  lemons  boiled 
whole  in  clear  water  until  soft  enough  to  run  a  straw  through ; 
slice  very  thin.  Put  pulp  and  rind  of  lemon  with  the  pear,  ginger 
root  and  sugar.    Boil  one  and  one-half  hours. — Mrs.  T.  R.  Akin. 

Ginger  Pears. — Eight  pounds  of  pears  (hard),  eight  pounds 
of  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  of  ginger  root  (green),  juice  of  six 
lemons  and  rind  of  two.  Let  sugar  boil  up  with  one  and  one- 
half  pints  of  water,  add  ginger,  lemon  and  pears  cut  in  quarters. 
Boil  slowly  about  three  hours. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Kauffmann. 


Pickles,  Catsup  and  Spiced  Fruits 


Cucumber  Pickles. — Make  a  brine  of  salt  and  water,  put  in 
the  cucumbers,  and  let  them  remain  twenty- four  hours ;  take  cider 
vinegar,  put  in  the  pickles,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  remove  from 
the  fire  and  have  ready  cider  vinegar  sweetened  and  spiced  to 
taste  with  allspice,  sticks  of  cinnamon,  whole  black  pepper,  nu;stard 
seed,  celery  seed  and  raw  ginger ;  when  heated  pour  over  the 
pickles,  add  grape  or  cabbage  leaves.  Grated  horseradish  may  be 
used  also. — Airs.  John  Morris. 

Cucumber  Pickles. — Make  a  brine  of  salt  and  water,  put  in 
the  cucumbers  and  let  them  remain  nine  days,  pouring  off  the 
brine  and  scalding  it  every  second  day.  On  the  ninth  day,  take 
some  cider  vinegar,  which,  if  very  strong,  dilute  with  one-third 
water ;  have  it  boiling  hot  and  pour  over  the  pickles,  having  first 
covered  them  with  vine  or  cabbage  leaves ;  then  take  cider  vinegar 
and  sweeten,  say  from  one  and  one-half  poimds  to  two  pounds  of 
sugar  to  one  gallon  of  vinegar.  Have  ready  the  spices  and  put  all 
into  the  vinegar.  While  heating  turn  off  the  first  vinegar  and  pour 
this  over  them.  Exclude  them  entirely  from  the  air.  If  like,  add 
grated  horseradish. — Airs.  John  D.  Morris. 

Cucumber  Pickles. — Take  small  cucumbers,  put  them  in  a 
large  stone  jar;  to  a  four-gallon  jar  full  put  enough  water  to 
cover.  One  quart  of  salt  and  alum  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Turn  off 
the  brine  and  scald  every  day,  putting  it  on  boiling  hot  for  nine 
days.  Then  wash,  and  soak  over  night,  if  too  salt.  Put  into  jars 
or  bottles ;  add  whole  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace,  allspice  and  peppers 
(green  peppers  preferred).  Scald  the  vinegar  and  pour  on  hot. 
— Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Easy  Cucumber  Pickles. — To  one  gallon  of  vinegar  add  one 
cup  of  salt  and  one  cup  of  mustard  dissolved  in  vinegar.  Pour  the 
vinegar  without  heating  over  small  cucumbers,  and  they  are  ready 
for  use  in  a  few  days. — Mrs.  L.  T.  Sampson. 


PICKLES,    CATSUP  AND   SPICED   FRUITS  1 85 

Yellow  Pickles. — One-half  pound  of  white  mustard  seed, 
one-quarter  pound  of  black  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  of  tumeric, 
one-quarter  ounce  of  cayenne.  The  above  quantity  for  a  six- 
gallon  jar  of  pickle.  White  cauliflower  cut,  white  cabbage  sliced 
fine  and  long,  one-half  dozen  large  onions  sliced  fine,  one-half 
dozen  small  onions  whole,  one-half  dozen  small  cucumbers  whole, 
one-half  dozen  large  cucumbers  cut.  If  they  can  be  procured, 
nasturtium,  radish  pods,  string  beans  and  green  grapes.  Put  all  in 
brine  for  twenty  hours.  Then  strain  and  pour  on  boiling  vinegar 
sufficient  to  just  cover  the  pickle,  into  which  has  been  put  the 
above  spices  and  turmeric.  Mix  a  pint  bowl  of  mustard  as  for  the 
table,  and  add  after  the  pickle  has  cooled.  To  get  the  required 
quantity  of  vinegar,  measure  the  brine  when  turned  off.  The 
vinegar  should  only  just  cover  the  pickle. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Hale, 
Chicago. 

English  Chow-Chow. — One-quarter  of  a  peck  of  green 
beans,  one  quart  of  small  onions,  one  quart  of  green  sliced  tomatoes, 
two  dozen  small  cucumbers,  one  dozen  small  green  peppers,  one 
dozen  chopped  red  peppers,  one  cauliflower,  two  ounces  of  white 
mustard  seed,  the  same  quantity  of  black  mustard  seed,  one-half 
pound  of  yellow  ground  mustard,  one-fourth  of  a  teacupful  of 
sweet  oil,  one  tablespoonful  of  turmeric  powder,  one  teaspoonfulf  of 
celery  seed.  Scald  the  beans,  onions,  peppers,  cauliflower,  toma- 
toes and  cucumbers  in  vinegar  and  drain  through  a  colander.  Then 
place  in  a  jar;  put  on  the  fire  fresh  vinegar  sufficient  to  cover  the 
pickle,  and  put  into  it  all  the  seed  and  two-thirds  of  the  ground 
mustard.  Let  it  boil  some  minutes,  then  mix  the  remainder  of  the 
mustard,  the  tumeric  and  oil  together.  Stir  in,  and  let  boil  up  once 
and  pour  over  the  pickle. — Mrs.  C.  Hazeltine. 

Tomato  Chow-Chow. — One-half  bushel  of  green  tomatoes, 
one  dozen  onions,  one-half  dozen  green  peppers,  all  chopped  fine. 
Sprinkle  over  the  mess  one  pint  of  salt;  let  is  stand  over  night, 
then  drain  off  the  brine ;  cover  it  with  good  vinegar,  let  cook  one 
hour  slowly,  then  drain  and  pack  in  jars.  Take  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  of  allspice,  one  of 
cloves,  one  of  pepper,  one-half  cup  of  ground  mustard,  one  pint 
of  grated  horseradish,  and  vinegar  enough  to  mix  them.  When 
boiling  hot,  pour  over  the  mess  packed  in  a  jar  and  cover  tight. 
Then  it  is  ready  for  use  and  will  keep  for  years. — Mrs.  H.  B. 
Wick. 


1 86  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Chow-Chow. — For  this  take  the  large  overgrown  cucumbers, 
pare  and  remove  the  seeds,  chop  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt,  and 
let  stand  over  night  to  drain.  For  one  gallon  take  about  half  as 
many  chopped  onions,  and  two  red  peppers  with  seeds  removed, 
chopped ;  mix  them  fresh  with  the  cucumbers,  sprinkle  through  the 
mess  about  two  tablespoonfuls  celery  seed ;  place  in  granite  kettle, 
cover  with  vinegar,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  only  scald,  that  the 
crispness  may  be  retained ;  fill  bottles  and  seal  while  hot  with 
parafine. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Euiver. 

Cucumber  Pickle. — Take  one  gallon  of  water  and  one  scant 
pint  of  salt;  let  boil  and  pour  over  the  pickles  boiling  hot.  Let 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  drain  and  make  fresh  brine  same  as  be- 
fore and  pour  over  boiling  hot  the  second  morning.  Third  morn- 
ing scald  the  same  brine  and  pour  over  boiling  hot.  Fourth  morn- 
ing wipe  the  pickles  dry;  take  strong  cider  vinegar  (enough  to 
cover  pickles),  a  lump  of  alum  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  little  sugar, 
white  mustard  seed,  whole  cloves,  red  or  green  peppers  torn  up  or 
a  little  cayenne  pepper,  a  bunch  of  celery  cut  up  and  a  little  celery 
seed.  Boil  all  together  and  pour  over  pickles  hot. — Mrs.  F.  W. 
Powers. 

Chow-Chow. — To  one  peck  of  tomatoes,  add  three  good-sized 
onions,  six  peppers  with  seeds  taken  out,  chop  together  and  boil 
three  minutes  in  three  quarts  of  vinegar.  Drain  and  throw  this 
vinegar  away.  To  three  quarts  of  new  vinegar  scalding  hot,  add 
two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  of  mixed  mustard,  one  tablespoonful 
whole  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  salt;  pour  over  tomatoes  and  put 
away  for  use. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Euwer. 

Piccalilli. — One-half  ■  bushel  of  green  tomatoes,  one-half 
peck  of  onions;  slice,  sprinkle  salt  through  them  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  water.  Put  over  the 
fire  with  enough  weak  vinegar  to  cover.  Let  simmer  slowly  until 
a  little  tender,  but  not  cooked  to  pieces.  Drain  in  a  colander  and 
put  a  layer  of  the  pickle  in  a  jar.  Sprinkle  over  black  mustard 
seed,  ground  pepper,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice,  and  a  little 
sugar.  Continue  in  this  way  till  the  jar  is  filled.  Sprinkle  plenty 
of  spice  over  the  top.  Pour  over  cold  strong  vinegar.  Cover 
tight,  and  set  away. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Arw^_ 


PICKLES,    CATSUP  AND   SPICED  FRUITS  1 87 

Sweet  Piccalilli. — Take  tomatoes  just  turning,  wash 
and  without  paring  slice  thick.  Put  into  a  crock,  with  salt 
sprinkled  between  the  layers,  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  drain  and  make  a  rich  syrup  of  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spice, 
cinnamon,  mace  and  cloves.  Put  a  few  of  the  tomatoes  into  the 
syrup,  and  let  them  simmer  slowly.  Take  out  before  they  are 
cooked  to  pieces,  and  put  into  a  crock  on  the  back  of  the  stove. 
Continue  in  this  way  with  the  tomatoes  until  all  are  used.  If  the 
syrup  gets  too  thin,  make  fresh.  Pour  over  the  tomatoes,  and 
cover  tight. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Arms. 

Piccalilli. — One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one  dozen  onions, 
six  red  peppers,  one-half  ounce  of  ginger,  one-quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  mace,  one  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  box  of  mustard, 
five  cents'  worth  of  celery  seed,  mustard  seed  to  taste,  one  pound 
of  brown  sugar.  Slice  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers,  put  in  a 
jar  with  salt  mixed  well  through.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours. 
Drain  off  and  boil  in  vinegar  (after  adding  the  spices)  until 
clear. — Mrs.  E.  W.  McClure. 

Piccalilli. — Pick  over  carefully  two  cabbages,  chop  fine, 
and  pint  of  chopped  onion ;  stir  in  a  handful  of  salt,  and  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours.  Into  a  quart  of  vinegar  stir  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  each  of  ground  mustard,  pepper, 
mace,  allspice,  celery  seed,  cinnamon,  and  turmeric ;  stir  this  into 
the  onion  and  cabbage,  turn  into  a  preserving  kettle,  and  cook 
ten  minutes ;  when  cold  pack  in  jars. — Mrs.  S.  J,  McElevey. 

Tomato  Piccalilli. — One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one-half 
peck  of  onions,  six  green  peppers,  and  two  red  ones.  Slice  and 
drain  over  night  with  a  little  salt;  then  cover  with  vinegar  and 
cook  until  tender.  To  the  vinegar  add  two  pounds  Cor  more) 
sugar,  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice,  mace,  all  whole.  At  the  last 
horseradish  cut  in  small  pieces. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Einver. 

Piccalilli. — One  peck  green  tomatoes,  one  dozen  onions, 
one-half  ounce  ground  mace,  one-half  ounce  ground  ginger,  one 
tablespoonful  black  pepper,  one-fourth  pound  of  mustard,  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  six  small  red  peppers,  mustard  seed  to 
taste.  Put  tomatoes  and  onions  in  a  jar  in  layers ;  let  stand  for 
twenty- four  hours,  covered  with  salt;  drain  liquid  off,  add  one 
gallon  of  vinegar  scalded,  with  spices  poured  over  when  cold. 
— Mrs.  J.  L.  Botsford.  . 


Io6  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Mixed  Pickles. — Cut  the  solid  part  of  large  seed  cucumbers, 
drop  them  in  water  slightly  salted,  over  night ;  take  an  equal 
number  of  onions,  or  more,  boil  in  salted  water  until  nearly  tender. 
You  can  add  cauliflower,  beans,  green  cantaloupe,  etc.,  after 
cooking  in  salted  water,  same  as  onions.  You  do  not  cook  the 
cucumbers  first.  After  draining  mix  all  together  by  putting  in 
layers  in  granite  kettle ;  sprinkle  plentifully  with  celery  seed  and 
small  pieces  of  red  peppers.  Take  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
turmeric  and  double  that  of  mustard  ;  mix  in  cold  vinegar  and  pour 
over  the  kettle ;  cover  all  with  vinegar,  add  sugar  to  taste,  about 
two  cupfuls  to  the  gallon ;  boil  till  nice  color,  but  not  long  enough 
to  lose  their  crispness ;  make  the  syrup  the  desired  thickness  by 
adding  mixed  cornstarch  a  little  at  a  time  just  before  taking  off 
the  stove. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Euwer. 

Cold  Pickle. — One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  chop  and  drain ; 
two  cups  of  chopped  onions ;  two  cups  of  chopped  celery ;  four 
sweet  peppers  chopped ;  one-half  cup  white  mustard ;  one-half 
cup  celery  seed ;  one-half  cup  of  salt ;  two  cups  of  granulated 
sugar ;  two  teaspoonfuls  black  pepper ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinna- 
mon;  two  pints  of  vinegar.  Can  up  airtight  in  glass  jars.  (Can 
tomato  juice  for  soups.) — Mrs.  E.  L.  Kanengeiser. 

HiGDON. — One-half  bushel  of  green  tomatoes,  two  large  heads 
of  cabbage,  one-half  dozen  green  cucumbers,  one  dozen  onions,  one 
dozen  green  peppers,  chopped  fine  and  prepared  as  piccalilli,  all 
except  the  chopped  pepper,  which  is  put  in  after  scalding.  Use 
ground  cinnamon,  allspice,  and  cloves,  a  little  black  mustard  seed, 
and  celery  seed,  one  gallon  of  vinegar  and  four  pounds  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  scalded  in  vinegar. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Green  Tomato  Mince. — One  peck  green  tomatoes  (chopped 
fine)  ;  add  two  pounds  of  raisins;  five  pounds  of  sugar;  boil  until 
thick,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  ground  cinnamon,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cloves,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  one  pint  of  vinegar. 
Can  while  hot. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Crew. 

Chopped  Tomatoes. — To  one  gallon  of  tomatoes,  chopped 
fine,  take  one  teacupful  of  salt,  sprinkle,  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Drain  through  a  colander,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  ground 
cloves,  one  of  allspice,  two  of  cinnamon,  three  of  ground  mustard, 


PICKLES,    CATSUP   AND   SPICED   FRUITS  1 89 

two  of  black  pepper,  four  of  green  pepper,  chopped  fine,  one  head 
of  cabbage.  Cover  with  cold  vinegar.  Three  or  four  onions  if 
liked. — Mrs.  John  Morris. 

Chili  Sauce.— Twenty-four  ripe  tomatoes,  twelve  green 
peppers,  eight  onions,  eight  teacupfuls  of  vinegar,  eight  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  four  teaspoonfuls  of 
cloves,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon.  Chop  the  onions  and  per- 
pers  fine  ;  slice  and  peel  the  tomatoes  ;  boil  two  or  three  hours  until 
it  is  the  right  consistency.  Use  less  peppers  if  you  don't  like  it 
hot. — Mrs.  Mason  Evans. 

Chili  Sauce.— Eighteen  ripe  tomatoes,  pared;  three  green 
peppers,  one  onion,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  and  one-half  cups  of 
vinegar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one  "teaspoonful  of  cloves.  Cook  the  tomatoes  tender ;  chop  the 
onions  and  peppers  very  fine.  Mix  all  and  cook  a  few  minutes.— 
Mrs.  J.  G.  Butler. 

Chili  Sauce.— One  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  four  green  peppers, 
one  large  onion,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  ground  allspice,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Boil  half  an  hour,  then  put  in  bottles  while 
hot,  and  cork  tight.— Mr^.  E.  C.  Wells. 

Oil  Pickle. — Six  dozen  cucumbers,  four  quarts  of  onions, 
both  sliced  very  thin  ;  salt  and  let  stand  three  hours ;  drain.  Dress- 
ing :  One  cup  of  olive  oil,  one  tablespoonful  of  white  mustard  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  black  mustard  seed,  one  tablespoonful  of  cel- 
ery seed,  two  quarts  of  vinegar.  Mix  all  with  the  vinegar.  Pack 
the  onions  and  cucumbers  in  jars  and  pour  over  them  the  dressing 
cold.    Add  vinegar  if  not  sufficient  to  cover.— Mr^.  John  Sampson. 

Stuffed  Peppers. — Put  the  peppers  in  salt  and  water  for  a 
few  days,  then  remove  the  seeds.  Chop  cabbage  and  sprinkle  with 
salt.  In  a  few  hours,  drain  the  water  from  the  cabbage,  and 
season  with  mustard  or  celery  seed,  or  a  mixture  of  each.  Fill 
the  peppers  with  the  cabbage  and  seed,  and  sew  them  up.  Cover 
with  hot  vinegar. — Mrs.  C.  Haseltine. 

Martinoes.— Pick  from  the  vines  before  they  get  tough ;  put 
them  in  a  weak  brine  for  three  days,  then  let  them  drain,  and- 
pour  over  them  boiling  vinegar,  spiced  with  cloves  and  cinnamon. 
— Mrs.  J.  J.  Murray. 


IQO  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Red  Cabbage  and  Cauliflower. — Pull  the  loose  leaves, 
quarter  the  cabbage,  put  them  in  a  large  jar  with  alternate  layers 
of  salt  and  cabbage,  and  let  them  stand  for  several  days;  then 
scald  some  vinegar,  with  pepper-corns,  mace  and  cinnamon  in 
proportion  of  an  ounce  each  to  a  gallon  of  vinegar ;  add  a  small 
piece  of  alum,  and  turn  this  over  the  cabbage  in  the  brine,  which 
should  remain  with  it.  Cloves  and  allspice  are  good,  but  turn  the 
cabbage  darker.  The  vinegar  should  be  scalded  three  or  four 
times,  and  poured  over  the  cabbage  to  make  it  tender.  Cauliflower 
is  pickled  in  the  same  way. 

Uncooked  Tomato  Catsup. — One  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled 
and  chopped  fine ;  then  put  to  drain  in  colander  for  several  hours, 
stirring  often.  To  this  add  two  roots  of  horseradish,  grated,  two 
green  peppers,  remove  the  seeds  and  chop  fine ;  three  stalks  of 
celery  chopped ;  one  cup  of  onion  chopped ;  one-half  cup  each  of 
salt  and  mustard  seed ;  one  teaspoonful  black  pepper,  one  tea- 
spoonful  ground  mace ;  one  teaspoonful  ground  cloves ;  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  cinnamon  ;  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  one  quart  of  vinegar.  Mix 
all  together  thoroughly,  and  put  in  wide  mouthed  bottles,  cork  and 
seal. — Mrs.  Robert  Bentley. 

Tomato  Catsup. — To  one  gallon  of  ripe  tomatoes,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  two  of  ground  mustard,  one 
dessert  spoon  of  cloves,  one  pint  of  good  cider  vinegar,  a  half 
teacupful  of  sugar.  Boil  slowly  for  three  hours.  Do  not  add  the 
spice  until  nearly  done,  as  it  is  more  liable  to  burn. — Mrs.  John 
Morris. 

Tomato  Catsup. — One  gallon  of  tomatoes,  one  pint  of  vine- 
gar, two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  two  of  black  pepper,  two  of  mus- 
tard, one  of  cloves,  one  dozen  onions,  sliced  fine.  Boil  all  together 
till  quite  thick ;  strain  through  a  colander.  Bottle  and  cork  tight, 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place. — Mrs.  T.  H.  Wilson. 

Tomato  Catsup. — One  bushel  ripe  tomatoes,  one  pint  of 
salt,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  gallon  of  vinegar,  one  and  one- 
fourth  pound  of  mixed  spices ;  buy  by  the  box ;  let  cook  until 
thoroughly  seasoned  with  spices ;  two  dozen  onions  cut  in  small 
pieces,  four  or  five  green  peppers  cut  in  small  pieces,  four  or  five 
horseradish  roots  cut  in  small  pieces.  Mash  mixture  through  a 
sieve. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Botsford. 


PICKLES,    CATSUP  AND   SPICED   FRUITS  IQI 

Cucumber  Catsup. — Boil  and  grate  full-grown  cucumbers, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night;  then  pour  out  all  the 
water,  season  with  celery  seed  and  add  vinegar  until  about  the 
consistency  of  the  cucumber  when  grated.  Bottle  for  use. — Mrs. 
C.  Hazeltine. 

Cucumber  Catsup. — Two  dozen  large  cucumbers,  two  dozen 
white  onions,  one  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  teaspoonful 
red  pepper,  three  red  peppers.  Cut  all  up  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  let  drain  until  morning,  then  mix  the  spices  in ;  boil  the  vine- 
gar and  let  it  cool  before  putting  on  the  pickle.  Put  in  glass  jars 
and  close  tight. — Mrs.  E.  IV.  McChire. 

Gooseberry  Catsup. — Five  pounds  of  berries,  two  and  one- 
half  pounds  of  sugar,  boil  down  until  as  thick  as  apple  butter ; 
add  cinnamon  and  cloves  to  taste,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  pint  of  vine- 
gar.    Strain  through  a  hair  sieve  and  bottle. — Mrs.  Henry  Wick. 

Grape  Catsup. — Five  pounds  of  grapes  boiled  in  a  little  water 
and  put  through  a  colander,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of 
vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  of  cinnamon, 
one  of  pepper,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Boil  until  a  little 
thick.     Bottle  and  seal. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Arms. 

Sweet  Pickled  Watermelon  Rind. — Prepare  the  rinds  and 
put  into  weak  vinegar  and  water  for  twelve  hours,  then  boil  them 
tender  in  the  same  water;  drain  well  and  prepare  to  a  pint  of 
vinegar  one  pound  of  sugar,  mace,  allspice,  cloves,  stick  cinna- 
mon ;  put  the  rinds  in  a  jar  and  pour  this  over  them. — Mrs.  R.  W. 
Tayler. 

Sweet  Canteloupe  Pickle. — Pare  them  and  cover  with 
vinegar,  after  cutting  in  pieces ;  pour  oflf  the  vinegar  and  to  every 
pint  put  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  a  little  cloves, 
allspice  and  mace ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes ;  throw  in  the  canta- 
loupe ;  take  it  out  as  soon  as  it  looks  clear,  put  in  a  jar  and  pour 
the  boiling  mixture  over  them. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Tayler. 

Nasturtums. — Take  those  that  are  small  and  green,  put  them 
in  salt  and  water,  changing  it  twice  in  the  course  of  a  week.  When 
you  have  done  collecting  them,  turn  off  the  brine  and  turn  on 
scalding  vinegar  with  a  little  alum  in  it. 

Spiced  Plums. — One  peck  of  plums,  seven  pounds  of  sugar, 
spice  to  taste ;  let  boil  down  thick ;  before  taking  from  the  fire  add 
one  pint  of  vinegar. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Woodman. 


192  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Spiced  Grapes. — Eight  quarts  of  seeded  grapes,  two  ounces 
of  ground  cloves,  two  of  cinnamon,  three  and  one-half  pounds  of 
sugar;  boil  two  hours.— Mr^.  Win.  Lazvthers. 

^'piCED  Grapes. — Boil  and  strain  through  a  colander,  to  re- 
move the  skins  and  seeds,  six  pounds  of  grapes  and  add  to  the 
grapes  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  each  of  cloves  and  mace  ;  boil  one  hour. 
— Airs.  C.  Hazeltine. 

Spiced  Cherries. — Four  pounds  of  cherries,  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves ;  heat  one 
pint  of  vinegar ;  pour  on  hot,  three  days  in  succession. — Mrs.  Win. 
Lazvthers. 

Pickled  Cherries. — Pit  the  cherries.  To  one  quart  of  fruit 
add  one  pint  of  sugar,  and  one-half  pint  of  vinegar.  To  six 
quarts  of  cherries  add  one-fourth  cup  of  whole  cloves  and  a  scant 
fourth  pound  stick  cinnamon.  Scald  the  liquor  daily  for  four  days 
and  pour  over  the  fruit.  'Do  not  boil  the  fruit. — Mrs.  W.  J. 
Sampson. 

Pickled  Plums. — Wash  the  plums  clean  and  put  into  jars, 
and  for  two  quarts  of  plumbs  make  a  rich  syrup  of  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  with  spice ;  put  tlie  plums  in  a  jar  and 
pour  over  them  the  hot  syrup. — Miss  Kate  Anns. 

Spiced  Gooseberries. — Six  quarts  of  berries,  nine  pounds  of 
sugar  and  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  cloves.  Dissolve  half  the  sugar,  put  in  berries  cook- 
ing for  one  hour  and  a  half,  then  put  in  remainder  of  sugar  and 
just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add  spice  and  vinegar. — Mrs.  S. 
J.  McElevev. 

Spiced  Pears  or  Peaches. — Ten  pounds  of  fruit,  five  pounds 
of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  vinegar ;  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves 
tied  in  a  bag ;  boil  the  pears  until  clear ;  then  scald  thoroughly  in 
the  syrup,  boil  it  down  and  pour  over  the  pears. — Mrs.  W.  S. 
Matthews. 

Spiced  Apples. — Three  pounds  of  apples,  pared,  four  pounds 
of  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon,  half 
an  ounce  of  cloves ;  boil  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  together ; 
put  in  the  apples  when  boiling  and  let  them  remain  until  tender. 


PICKLES,    CATSUP  AND  SPICED   FRUITS  1 93 

Take  out,  put  into  a  jar;  boil  down  the  syrup  until  it  is  thick  and 
pour  it  over. 

Pickled  Peaches. — One  gallon  of  vinegar,  four  pounds  of 
brown  sugar;  take  cling-stone  peaches,  rub  them  with  a  flannel, 
stick  two  or  three  cloves  in  each ;  put  them  into  a  glass  or  earthen 
vessel  and  pour  the  liquor  onto  them  boiling  hot ;  cover  them  and 
let  stand  for  a  week  or  ten  days,  then  pour  off  the  liquor  and  boil 
it  as  before,  after  which  return  it  boiling  to  the  peaches,  which 
should  be  covered  closely.  Let  the  vinegar  and  sugar  in  the 
first  place  just  come  to  a  boil. — Miss  Laura  Wick. 

Spiced  Peaches. — Three  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  good 
vinegar,  a  teacupful  of  broken  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of 
cloves  whole,  a  very  little  mace;  this  will  spice  about  one  peck 
of  peaches.  Put  all  in  a  kettle  and  simmer  slowly  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.  The  fruit  should  be  pared.  When  done  put  in  small  jars 
and  cover  with  egg  papers. — Mrs.  R.  McMlilan. 

Spiced  Peaches. — Pare,  and  if  very  large,  halve  one  peck 
fine  Crawford  peaches.  To  one  pint  of  vinegar  allow  three  pounds 
of  white  sugar,  and  of  this  make  a  rich  syrup;  drop  into  the 
syrup  a  small  handful  of  broken  cinnamon,  a  very  little  cloves  and 
mace  and  a  few  pieces  of  ginger  root ;  when  boiling  add  as  many 
peaches  as  the  syrup  will  cover  and  let  them  simmer  about  ten 
minutes,  then  take  out  carefully  with  a  spoon,  put  into  jars,  then 
cook  more  peaches  in  the  same  syrup ;  when  all  cooked,  make  fresh 
syrup  and  pour  over  them  in  the  jars.— Mr^.  M.  I.  Arms. 


COOKERY  FOR  THE  SICK 


Beef  Tea. — Very  nice  beef  tea  is  made  by  cutting  up  tender, 
juicy  beef  into  pieces  about  one  inch  square;  put  into  a  strong 
bottle,  cork  tightly  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  Boil  it  about 
two  hours ;  the  fluid  then  obtained  will  be  of  the  pure  nutriment  of 
the  meat,  and  the  tonic  effects  are  powerful. 

Beef  Tea. — Cut  raw  beef  into  small  pieces,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  where  it  will  not  boil,  until 
all  the  juice  is  extracted  from  the  beef.  When  wanted  for  use 
skim  off  all  the  fat,  strain,  season,  and  let  come  to  a  boil. — Mrs. 
R.  McMillan. 

Veal  or  Mutton  Broth. — To  each  pound  of  meat  add  one 
quart  of  cold  water,  bring  it  gently  to  a  boil ;  skim  it  and  add  salt ; 
simmer  the  broth  about  three  hours.  A  little  rice  may  be  boiled 
with  the  meat.    When  cold  skim  off  all  the  fat. 

Chicken  Broth. — Take  part  of  a  chicken,  joint  it  and  cover 
with  water ;  let  it  boil  closely  covered  until  the  meat  drops  from  the 
bones,  then  skim  off  the  fat,  strain,  and  season  with  a  little  salt, 
and  if  liked  add  a  teaspoonful  of  rice,  and  let  boil  until  the  rice 
is  cooked. 

Scraped  Beef. — Take  a  good  piece  of  raw  steak,  lay  it  on  a 
meat  board,  and  with  a  knife  scrape  into  fine  bits ;  after  removing 
all  hard  and  grisly  parts  put  it  into  a  pan  over  the  fire  and  let  it 
remain  just  long  enough  to  become  thoroughly  heated  through, 
stirring  it  up  from  the  bottom  occasionally ;  season  with  a  little 
salt.    This  is  very  nutritious,  and  quite  palatable. 

To  Prepare  an  Egg. — Beat  an  egg  until  very  light,  add  sea- 
soning to  the  taste,  and  then  steam  until  thoroughly  warmed 
through,  but  not  hardened.  This  will  take  about  two  minutes. 
An  egg  prepared  in  this  way  will  not  distress  a  sensitive  stomach. 


COOKERY   FOR   THE   SICK  IQS 

Milk  Porridge. — Make  a  thin  batter  of  white  flour  and  cold 
milk  and  stir  it  into  boiling  milk  with  a  little  salt.  Let  it  boil 
for  a  few  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time. 

Panada.— Shave  very  thin  soft  parts  of  light  bread  into  a 
bowl,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  hickorvnut,  grate 
over  this  some  nutmeg,  pour  on  boiling  water,  cover  and  let 
stand  a  few  minutes. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick. 

Panada.— Break  the  soft  part  of  a  stale  loaf  of  bread  in 
pieces,  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  then  mash ;  put  it  on 
the  fire,  with  a  little  salt,  butter  and  sugar  to  taste,  and  cook 
slowly  for  an  hour ;  add  two  yolks  of  eggs  beaten,  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk. 

Oat  Meal  Gruel.— Put  two  large  spoonfuls  of  oatmeal,  wet 
in  cold  water,  into  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  boil  it  gently  one-half 
hour,  skim,  and  add  a  little  salt,  sugar  and  nutmeg. 

Port  Wine  Jelly.— Melt  in  a  little  warm  water  one  ounce  of 
isinglass,  stir  into  it  one  pint  of  port  wine,  adding  two  ounces  of 
sugar,  an  ounce  of  gum  arable  and  half  a  nutmeg,  grated ;  mix  all 
well  and  boil  ten  minutes,  or  until  everything  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved; then  strain  and  set  away  to  get  cold. 

Barley  Water.— Soak  one  pint  of  barley  in  lukewarm  water 
for  a  few  minutes,  then  drain  ofif  the  water.  Put  the  barley  in 
three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  cook  slowly  until  the  barley  is  quite 
soft,  skimming  occasionally.  This  barley  water,  when  cold,  flavor 
with  a  little  jelly  or  lemonade. 

Rice  Milk.— Pick  and  wash  the  rice  carefully;  boil  it  in 
water  until  it  swells  and  softens ;  when  the  water  is  partly  boiled 
away,  add  some  milk.  It  may  be  boiled  entirely  in  milk,  by  setting 
the  vessel  in  which  the  rice  is  in,  in  boiling  water ;  sweeten  with 
white  sugar,  and  season  with  nutmeg.  It  also  may  be  thickened 
with  a  little  flour  or  beaten  egg. 

Flaxseed  Tea.— One-half  pound  of  flaxseed,  one-half  pound 
of  rock  candy,  and  three  lemons  pared  and  sliced ;  pour  over  this 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  let  it  stand  until  very  cold ;  strain 
before  drinking.    This  is  good  for  a  cough.— Mr^.  H.  B.  Wick. 

Appleade.— Cut  two  large  apples  in  slices,  and  pour  on  them 
one  pint  of  boiling  water ;  strain  well  and  sweeten.  Ice  it  before 
drinking. 


196  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Blackberry  Syrup. — One  quart  of  blackberry  juice,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of  nutmeg,  one-half  ounce  of 
cinnamon,  one-fourth  of  as  ounce  of  cloves,  one-fourth  of  an 
ounce  of  allspice. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Butler. 

ToASTWATER. — Toast  Stale  bread  until  quite  brown,  but  do 
not  burn  it ;  put  it  into  a  large  bowl,  and  pour  over  it  boiling 
water ;  let  it  stand  for  an  hour  or  so,  strain  and  put  in  a  piece  of 
ice  before  drinking. 

Toast. — Toast  bread  until  a  nice  brown  all  over,  taking  great 
care  not  to  burn ;  butter  each  slice,  dip  into  hot  water,  or  pour 
over  each  piece  enough  sweet  cream  to  moisten  it. 

Blackberry  Wine. — To  one  gallon  of  mashed  berries  add 
one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  twenty- four  hours  ;  then 
strain  them,  and  to  every  gallon  of  juice  add  three  pounds  of  brown 
sugar.  Put  in  a  jug  or  demijohn  and  cover  with  a  thin  piece  of 
muslin  until  October,  then  bottle  it  off. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Tayler. 

Wine  Whey. — Sweeten  one  pint  of  milk  to  taste,  and  when 
boiling  throw  in  two  wine-glasses  of  sherry  :  when  the  curd  forms, 
strain  the  whey  through  a  muslin  bag  into  tumblers. 

Arrowroot  Custards. — Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  and  while  boiling 
stir  into  it  one  large  spoonful  of  arrowroot  mixed  smooth  with  a 
little  cold  milk ;  add  a  little  salt ;  let  it  boil  three  or  four  minutes, 
then  let  it  cool,  and  add  a  couple  of  beaten  eggs,  sugar,  and  nut- 
meg to  the  taste,  and  set  it  where  it  will  get  scalding  hot,  stirring 
all  the  time.    As  soon  as  it  boils  up  turn  it  into  custard  cups. 

Cracked  Wheat. — To  one  quart  of  hot  water  take  one  small 
teacup  of  cracked  wheat  and  a  little  salt ;  boil  slowly  for  half  an 
hour,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning.  Serve  with  cream 
and  sugar  or  new  milk. 

Raw  Egg — Break  a  fresh  egg  into  a  glass,  beat  until  very 
light,  sweeten  to  taste  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  port  wine, 
then  beat  again. 

Fine  Hominy. — Put  to  soak  one  pint  of  hominy  in  two  and 
one-half  pints  of  boiling  water  over  night  in  a  tin  vessel  with 
a  tight  cover ;  in  the  morning  add  one-half  pint  of  sweet  milk  and 
a  little  salt.  Place  on  a  brisk  fire  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water ;  let 
boil  one-half  hour. 


COOKERY    FOR   THE   SICK  1 97 

Oat  Meal  Mush. — Sift  into  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt, 
oat  meal  until  about  the  consistency  of  common  mush ;  let  it  boil 
one-half  hour. 

Blackberry  Cordial. — Warm  and  squeeze  the  berries ;  add 
to  one  pint  of  juice  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of 
powdered  cinnamon,  one- fourth  ounce  of  mace,  two  tpa^Doontuls 
of  cloves.  Boil  all  together  for  one-fourth  of  an  hour;  strain 
the  syrup,  and  to  each  pint  add  a  glass  of  French  brandy.  Two 
or  three  doses  of  a  tablespoonful  or  less  will  check  any  slight 
diarrhoea.  When  the  attack  is  violent,  give  a  tablesnoonful  after 
each  discharge  until  the  complaint  is  in  subjection.  It  will  arrest 
dysentery  if  given  in  season,  and  is  a  pleasant  and  safe  remedy. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES 


Amount  of  Refreshments  Required  for  Entertaining 
Fifty  Guests. — Five  chickens  and  twelve  heads  of  celery  for 
salad.  One  hundred  sandwiches.  One  and  one-half  pounds  of 
coffee.  Three  pints  of  cream.  Two  molds  of  jelly  and  five  loaves 
of  cake.  For  scalloped  oysters  :  One  gallon  of  oysters,  two  pounds 
of  crackers,  and  one  pound  of  butter.  Five  dozen  biscuits.  Two 
and  one-half  pounds  of  butter.  Eight  pounds  of  ham  boiled  and 
two  pounds  of  butter  for  one  hundred  mixed  ham  sandwiches. — 
Mrs.  S.  J.  McElevey. 

To  Clean  Paint. — Tea  leaves  may  be  saved  from  the  table 
for  a  few  days,  and  when  sufficient  are  collected,  steep,  not  boil, 
them  for  half  an  hour  in  a  tin  pan.  Strain  the  water  off  through 
a  sieve,  and  use  this  tea  to  wash  all  varnished  paint.  It  removes 
spots,  and  gives  a  fresher,  newer  appearance  than  when  soap  and 
water  is  used.  For  white  paint,  take  up  a  small  quantity  of  whit- 
ing on  a  damp  piece  of  old  white  flannel,  and  rub  over  the  surface 
lightly,  and  it  will  leave  the  paint  remarkably  bright  and  new. 

To  Mend  Broken  Dishes. — Take  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of 
white  glue,  break  the  pieces  fine,  put  in  a  bottle,  and  add  muriatic 
acid  enough  to  cover  the  glue;  cork  the  bottle  tightly,  and  place 
where  it  will  be  warm  until  the  contents  have  become  liquid  of  thf 
consistency  of  thin  molasses.  To  mend  an  earthen  or  glass  dish, 
see  that  the  edges  are  clean ;  then  warm  the  parts  until  they  are  so 
hot  that  you  can  scarcely  hold  in  your  hands,  but  do  not  heat  so  hot 
as  to  burn  the  cement.  With  a  flat  stick  apply  the  cement  to  the 
edges  as  quick  as  you  can,  put  them  together,  and  let  another 
person  tie  them  tightly.  When  this  is  done,  put  the  mended  dishes 
on  a  shelf  in  a  warm  room  until  the  cement  has  become  thoroughly 
dry  and  hard. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Gilman. 

To  Raise  the  Pile  of  Velvet. — Cover  a  hot  smoothing-iron 
with  a  wet  cloth,  hold  the  velvet  firmly  over  it ;  the  vapor  rising 
will  raise  the  pile  of  velvet  with  the  assistance  of  a  light  whisk. 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECIPES  1 99 

Put  one  or  two  red  peppers  or  a  few  pieces  of  charcoal  into 
the  pot  where  ham,  cabbage,  etc.,  is  boiUng,  and  the  house  will  not 
be  filled  with  offensive  odor. 

To  Wash  Oil-Cloths. — In  washing  oil-cloth,  never  use  any 
soap  or  a  scrub  brush ;  it  will  destroy  an  oil-cloth  that  should  last 
for  years,  in  a  short  time.  Use  instead  warm  water  and  a  soft 
cloth  of  flannel  and  w^pe  off  with  water  and  skim  milk. 

Baking  PovvoiiR. — Eight  ounces  of  soda,  eight  ounces  of 
flour,  seven  ounces  of  tartaric  acid ;  sift  well  together. — Miss  Eliza 
Powers. 

Soft  Soap. — Eighteen  pounds  of  potash  to  twenty  pounds  of 
grease ;  boil  until  the  scraps  are  eaten  up,  then  pour  into  a  barrel 
and  fill  it  with  cold  water ;  stir  it  well  every  day  until  it  thickens, 
which  is  generally  two  weeks. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick. 

Soap. — Four  and  one-half  pounds  of  soda  ash,  two  pounds 
of  lime,  two  ounces  of  borax ;  boil  in  three  gallons  of  water  half 
an  hour,  then  pour  it  into  a  tub  to  settle ;  clean  the  kettle  and  put 
in  seven  pounds  of  clean  grease  while  the  lye  is  settling;  then 
pour  off  the  lye  into  the  kettle  and  boil  two  or  three  hours ;  put 
five  gallons  of  water  into  the  tub  to  settle,  and  then  throw  in 
occasionally  from  that,  as  it  rises,  to  keep  from  boiling  over. — 
Mrs.  A.  B.  Maximll,  Leetonia  O. 

To  Clean  Straw  Matting. — If  white  straw  matting  is 
washed  twice  during  the  summer  in  salt  and  water — a  pint  of  salt 
to  half  a  pailful  of  warm  soft  water — and  dried  quickly  with  a 
soft  cloth,  it  will  be  long  before  it  will  turn  yellow.  A  thin  coat  of 
varnish  applied  to  straw  matting  will  make  it  much  more  durable, 
and  keep  the  matting  looking;  fresh  and  new.  White  varnish 
should  be  used  on  white  matting.  When  varnished  it  will  not 
need  to  be  washed.  Be  sure  and  have  the  varnish  thin,  or  the 
matting  will  crack. 

To  Clean  Tinware. — Tinware  looks  much  nicer  when 
washed  in  hot  water  with  milk  instead  of  soap,  and  will  not  require 
rough  scouring,  which  soon  wears  oif  the  tin. 

To  Take  Mildew  from  Linen. — Rub  the  spots  with  soap ; 
scrape  chalk  over  it  and  rub  it  well;  lay  on  the  grass  in  the 
sun ;  as  it  dries,  wet  it  a  little ;  it  will  come  out  with  two  apphca- 
tions, — Mrs.  R.  W.  Tayler. 


200  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

A  Cheap  Paint. — Take  a  bushel  of  unslacked  lime  and  slack 
it  with  cold  water;  add  to  it  twenty  pounds  of  Spanish  whiting, 
seventeen  pounds  of  salt,  and  twelve  pounds  of  sugar ;  strain  the 
mixture  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  after 
reducing  with  cold  water.  This  is  intended  for  the  outside  of 
buildings ;  put  on  with  a  white-wash  brush.  For  inside  walls, 
take  as  before,  one  bushel  of  unslacked  lime,  three  pounds  of 
sugar,  five  pounds  of  salt ;  prepare  as  above,  and  put  on  with  a 
brush. 

Another  Paint. — Take  about  a  peck  of  unslacked  lime,  slack 
it  in  hot  water;  add  about  six  pounds  of  lard,  or  any  kind  of 
grease ;  put  in  about  two  pounds  of  glue  and  one  pound  of  Spanish 
whiting,  a  few  handfuls  of  salt.    Apply  it  while  hot. 

To  Revive  Withered  Flowers. — Dip  the  stems  (after  cut- 
ting about  one-half  inch  from  them)  into  boiling  water,  and,  by  the 
time  the  water  is  cold,  the  flowers  will  revive. 

To  Get  Rid  of  Flies. — Take  one-half  teaspoonful  of  black 
pepper  in  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream;  mix  well  together,  and  place  in  a  room  on  a 
plate  where  the  flies  are  troublesome. 

To  Get  Free  from  Ants. — Sprinkle  quick-lime  on  the  win- 
dow-sills, or  wherever  they  get  in ;  camphor  gum  wrapped  in  paper 
and  laid  around  when  they  are  thick,  will  also  drive  them  away. 

To  Wash  Muslin  Dresses  in  Delicate  Colors. — They 
should  not  be  washed  with  soap.  The  best  fluid  to  wash  them  in 
is  rice  water,  made  by  boiling  one  pound  of  rice  in  one  gallon  of 
water ;  reserve  a  quart  of  the  water  for  starching ;  then  wash  the 
dress  in  the  remainder ;  rinse  in  clear  or  slightly  blued  water ;  then 
starch  the  dress  in  the  remaining  quantity  of  rice  water  and  iron 
quickly. 

To  Dye  Blue  on  Cotton  (Two  and  one-half  pounds). — 
One  ounce  of  oxalic  acid,  one  ounce  of  Prussian  blue,  put  together 
in  a  bottle  of  soft  water  two  or  three  days  before  using ;  shake  often 
so  as  to  dissolve ;  when  ready  to  use,  put  in  a  brass  kettle  plenty 
of  cold  water  and  the  solution ;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  put  in  your 
rags  a  few  minutes,  and  rinse  around. — Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECIPES  201 

To  Dye  Yellow  (One  and  one-half  pounds). — Six  ounces 
of  sugar  of  lead,  four  ounces  of  bichromate  potash ;  dissolve  each 
in  a  pail  of  hot  water ;  dip  your  rags,  first  in  the  lead  and  then  in 
the  potash ;  dip  the  yellow  in  hot  lime-water  for  orange,  and  blue 
in  yellow  for  green. — Mrs.  R.  McMillan. 

For  Coloring  Scarlet  That  Will  Not  Fade. — To  six 
pounds  of  woolen  goods  take  three  ounces  of  cochineal,  three 
ounces  cream  tartar,  and  three  ounces  of  solution  of  tin ;  dissolve 
the  cream  tartar  in  enough  water  to  set  the  goods ;  scald  the  goods 
in  the  same  water  half  an  hour ;  soak  the  cochineal  in  =^ft  water 
over  night;  when  ready  to  color,  let  the  cochineal  scald,  but  not 
boil,  using  goods  out  of  cream  tartar  water,  and  put  in  cochineal 
solution ;  let  them  scald  several  hours ;  goods  ought  then  to  be 
dark  color ;  drain  out  of  that ;  add  solution  of  tin  to  same  liquid, 
put  in  the  goods  and  let  them  remain  until  the  coloring  is  all 
absorbed.— Mr.y.  R.  McMillan. 

To  Clean  Marble. — Take  two  parts  of  common  soda,  one 
part  of  pumice  stone,  and  one  part  of  finely  powdered  chalk ;  sift  it 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  mix  it  with  watery  then  rub  it  well  all 
over  the  marble,  and  the  stains  will  be  removed;  rub  the  marble 
over  with  salt  and  water. 

To  Clean  Tinware. — The  best  thing  for  cleaning  tinware  is 
common  soda ;  dampen  a  cloth,  dip  it  in  soda,  rub  the  ware  briskly, 
after  which  wipe  dry. 

To  Wash  Hair  Brushes. — Dissolve  a  piece  of  soda  in  warm, 
not  hot,  water;  dip  the  bristles  only  of  the  brush  once  in,  then 
rub  a  little  soap  on  them,  and  continue  dipping  the  brush  in  and  out 
(taking  care  that  the  water  does  not  get  to  the  back  of  the  handle) 
till  it  becomes  white  and  clean;  then  dip  into  cold  water  in  the 
same  manner ;  shak  and  wipe  with  a  cloth,  and  lay  before  the  fire, 
bristles  down,  to  dry. 

To  Clean  Cut  Glass. — Having  washed  cut  glass  articles, 
let  them  dry,  and  afterwards  rub  them  with  prepared  chalk  and  a 
soft  brush,  carefully  going  into  all  the  cavities. 

Indelible  Ink. — To  one  tablespoon  of  rain  water,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  vinegar,  add  a  piece  of  lunar  caustic  three  inches  long ; 
shake  well  together ;   put  on  to  your  cloth  a  little  milk  and  soda 


202  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

(to  a  tablespoon  of  milk,  a  piece  of  baking  soda  as  large  as  a 
grain  of  corn)  ;  iron  smooth  and  write  immediately. — Mrs.  C.  D. 
Arms. 

Iron  Rust. — This  may  be  removed  by  salt  mixed  with  a 
little  lemon  juice;  put  in  the  sun;  if  necessary  use  two  appli- 
cations. 

Mildew. — Dip  the  stained  cloth  in  buttermilk,  and  lay  in 
the  sun. 

Bleaching  Process. — Ten  cents  worth  of  chloride  of  lime, 
dissolved  in  enough  water  to  cover  well ;  when  dissolved,  pour 
into  a  large  tubful  of  water;  saturate  the  cloth  well  with  water 
before  putting  into  the  lime-water ;  rinse  around  well  with  a  stick 
until  the  cloth  gets  white  all  over;  let  it  stand  one-half  hour; 
then  wash  out  in  clean  water  and  boil. — Mrs.  Win.  Bonnell. 

To  Clean  Kid  Gloves. — Pour  naphtha  in  a  bowl,  enough  to 
wash  one  glove ;  dip  in  the  glove,  and  rub  every  part  as  hard  as 
you  would  in  washing  a  rag ;  draw  on  the  hand  immediately,  and 
rub  until  dry  with  a  clean  towel ;  proceed  in  the  same  manner 
with  the  other  glove,  using  clean  naphtha. 

To  Clean  Brittania  Ware. — It  should  first  be  rubbed  with 
a  woolen  cloth  and  sweet  oil,  and  then  washed  in  water  and  suds, 
and  rubbed  with  soft  water  and  whiting. 

To  Clean  Mirrors. — Never  wash  a  mirror  with  a  cloth,  but 
after  removing  all  the  dust  from  a  mirror  and  frame  with  an  old 
silk  handkerchief  or  feather  duster,  dampen  a  piece  of  soft  paper 
and  rub  the  surface  of  the  mirror  till  perfectly  clear  and  free  from 
spots,  then  wipe  off  all  the  moisture  with  a  soft  dry  paper  and 
the  mirror  will  be  as  clear  as  glass  can  be,  without  motes  or 
streaks,  as  is  the  case  when  it  is  washed  and  polished  with  a 
cloth. 

To  Purify  a  Sink. — Sinks  will,  in  hot  weather,  become 
foul ;  it  is  almost  impossible  for  any  one  to  help  it  unless  some 
chemical  preparation  is  used.  Dissolve  copperas — one  pound  in 
four  gallons  of  water.    Pour  over  the  sink  three  or  four  times. 

To  Soften  Hard  Water. — An  ounce  of  quick-lime  dis- 
solved in  nine  quarts  of  water,  and  the  clear  solution  put  into  a 
barrel  of  hard  water;   the  whole  will  become  soft  when  cleared. 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECIPES  203 

Paste  for  Cleaning  Brass  and  Other  Metals. — Take 
oxalic  acid  one  part,  rotten  stone  six  parts ;  mix  with  equal  parts 
of  oil  and  spirits  of  turpentine  to  a  paste. 

Management  of  Gold  Fish.— One  fish  to  one  quart  of 
water ;  use  the  same  kind  of  water,  whether  spring  or  river  water ; 
change  daily  in  summer ;  every  other  day  in  winter ;  use  shallow 
rather  than  deep  vessels,  with  small  pebbles  in  the  bottom  (to 
be  kept  clean)  ;  keep  in  the  shade  and  a  cool  part  of  the  room ;  use 
a  small  net  rather  than  the  hand  when  changing  the  water ;  feed 
with  cracker,  the  yolk  of  egg,  lettuce  and  flies  every  third  or 
fourth  day  and  put  a  little  in  at  a  time.  Do  not  feed  at  all  from 
November  to  the  end  of  February,  and  but  little  for  the  three 
following  months. 

To  Keep  Different  Things. — Pack  grapes  in  cotton.  Keep 
crumbs  and  pieces  of  bread  in  an  earthen  vessel,  in  a  cool,  dry 
place,  well  covered.  Put  fresh  lard  or  suet  in  tin  vessels.  Salt 
pork  in  unglazed  earthenware.  Preserves  or  jellies  in  glass, 
china  or  stoneware.  Cabbage,  buried  in  the  ground,  roots  up- 
ward. Salt  in  a  dry  place ;  meal  in  a  cool,  dry  place ;  ice  in  the 
cellar,  wrapped  in  flannel ;  vinegar  in  wood  or  glass. 

Moths  in  Carpets. — Take  a  coarse  crash  towel,  wring  it  out 
in  clean  water,  spread  it  smoothly  over  the  carpet,  then  iron  it 
dry,  repeating  the  operation  on  all  suspected  places  and  those 
least  used.  Then,  by  placing  a  few  crumbs  of  sulphur  under  the 
edges  of  the  carpet,  the  result  is  accomplished. 

Cement.— Two  ounces  of  acetic  acid,  one  ounce  of  best  white 
glue— the  acid  dissolves  the  glue.  Put  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle, 
with  a  brush  always  ready.  Good  for  everything.  Fix  like  a 
mucilage  bottle.     It  dries  directly. 

Excellent  Cologne.— Rose-geranium  water,  one  quart;  oil 
of  rose  geranium,  two  ounces ;  oil  of  rose  verbena,  two  drachms ; 
oil  of  bergamot,  two  drachms;  oil  of  jessamine,  one  ounce;  oil 
of  lavender,  Eng.,  one  drachm ;  extract  of  mille  fleur,  one  ounce. 
This  recipe  requires  five  quarts  of  alcohol. 

Household  Uses  of  Ammonia. — For  washing  paint,  put  a 
tablespoonful  in  a  quart  of  moderately  hot  water,  dip  in  a  flannel 
cloth,  and  with  this  simply  wash  off  the  woodwork.  No  scrub- 
bing will  be  necessary.    For  taking  grease  from  any  fabric,  use 


204  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

the  ammonia  nearly  pure,  then  lay  white  blotting  paper  over  the 
spot  and  iron  lightly.  To  clean  silver,  mix  two  teaspoonfuls  in  a 
quart  of  hot  soapsuds.  Wash  the  ware  with  an  old  brush.  For 
cleaning  hair  brushes,  shake  the  brush  up  and  down  in  a  mixture 
of  one  teaspoonful  of  ammonia  to  one  pint  of  hot  water.  Then 
rinse  in  cold  water  and  stand  them  in  the  wind  or  a  hot  place  to 
dry.  For  washing  finger-marks  from  mirrors  or  windows,  put  a 
few  drops  of  ammonia  on  a  moist  rag,  and  rub  quickly.  If  you 
wish  your  house  plants  to  flourish,  put  a  few  drops  into  every 
pint  used  in  watering.  A  teaspoonful  in  a  basin  of  cold  water 
will  add  much  to  the  refreshing  effects  of  a  bath.  Nothing  is 
better  than  ammonia  and  water  for  cleaning  the  hair.  In  every 
case  rinse  ofif  the  ammonia  with  clear  water. 

Carpet  Cleaning  Recipe. — Two  and  one-half  cakes  of  ivory 
soap,  eight  ounces  of  washing  soda,  four  ounces  of  powdered 
borax.  Boil  in  one  gallon  of  water  until  dissolved ;  add  four 
gallons  of  water  to  this  and  let  cool. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Bonnell. 

To  Wash  Windows. — It  is  said  that  windows  washed  in 
water,  to  which  a  little  bluing  has  been  added,  will  show  a  fine 
brilliance  and  keep  fresh  longer  than  when  washed  in  the  usual 
manner. 

For  Sting  of  Wasp  or  Bee. — Most  efficacious  and  speedy  in 
results  is  a  plaster  of  clove  oil  and  common  salt.  It  seems  to 
counteract  the  effects  of  the  poison  immediately. — Mrs.  A.  E. 
Kauifmann. 

The  Best  Thing  to  Take  Mildew  Out  of  Linen. — Rub 
soap  well  into  the  moistened  linen.  Then  scrape  fine  some 
common  chalk  and  rub  that  also  into  the  linen.  Lay  on  the  grass. 
As  it  dries,  moisten  again  and  again,  if  necessary.  The  mildew 
usually  disappears  very  rapidly  with  this  treatment. — Mrs.  A.  E. 
Kauifmann. 

To  Clean  Tiles. — Add  one  tablespoonful  of  kerosene  to 
pail  of  hot  water  for  scrubbing  tiles  and  it  will  both  cleanse  and 
show  up  their  colors  to  perfection. 


ANTIDOTES  FOR  POISON 


The  following  list  gives  some  of  the  more  common  poisons 
and  the  remedies  most  likely  to  be  on  hand  in  case  of  need : 

Acids. — These  cause  great  heat  and  sensation  of  burning 
pain  from  the  mouth  down  to  the  stomach.  Remedies  :  Magnesia, 
soda,  pearl  ash,  or  soap  dissolved  in  water;  then  use  stomach- 
pump,  or  emetic. 

Alkali. — Best  remedy  is  vinegar. 

Ammonia. — Remedy:    Lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 

Alcohol. — First  cleanse  out  the  stomach  by  an  emetic,  then 
dash  cold  wated  on  the  head,  and  give  ammonia  (spirits  of 
hartshorn). 

Arsenic. — Remedies  :  In  the  first  place  evacuate  the  stomach, 
then  give  the  white  of  eggs,  lime  water,  or  chalk  and  water,  char- 
coal, and  the  preparation  of  iron,  particular  hydrate. 

Laudanum. — Same  as  opium. 

Belladonna. — Give  emetics,  and  then  plenty  of  vinegar  and 
water,  or  lemonade.  * 

Morphine. — Same  as  opium. 

Charcoal. — In  poisons  by  carbonic  gas,  remove  the  patient 
to  the  open  air,  dash  cold  water  on  the  head  and  body,  and  stimu- 
late the  nostrils  and  lungs  with  hartshorn,  at  the  same  time  rub- 
bing the  chest  briskly. 

Corrosive  Sublimate. — Give  white  of  egg  freshly  mixed 
with  water,  or  give  wheat  flour  and  water  freely,  or  salt  and  water. 

Creosote. — White  of  eggs  and  emetics. 

Lead. — White  lead  and  sugar  of  lead.  Remedies :  Alum ; 
cathartics,  such  as  castor  oil  and  epsom  salts,  especially. 


206  THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 

Mushrooms  when  Poisonous. — Give  emetics  and  then 
plenty  of  vinegar  and  water,  with  doses  of  ether  if  handy. 

Nitrate  of  Silver  (Lunar  Caustic). — Give  a  strong  solu- 
tion of  common  sah  and  then  emetics. 

Opium. — First  give  a  strong  emetic  of  mustard  and  water, 
then  strong  coffee  and  acid  drinks ;  dash  cold  water  on  the  head. 

Nux  Vomica. — First  emetics  and  then  brandy. 

Oxalic  Acid  (Frequently  mistaken  for  Epsom  salts). — 
Remedies :  Chalk,  magnesia,  or  soap  and  water,  and  other 
soothing  drinks. 

Prussic  Acid. — When  there  is  time  administer  chlorine  in 
the  shape  of  soda  and  lime.  Hot  brandy  and  water,  hartshorn 
and  turpentine  are  also  useful. 

Snake  Bite,  Etc. — Apply  immediately  strong  hartshorn, 
and  take  it  internally ;  also  give  sweet  oil  and  stimulants  freely ; 
apply  a  ligature  tightly  above  the  part  bitten,  and  then  apply  a 
cupping-glass. 

Tartar  Emetic. — Take  large  doses  of  tea  made  of  galls, 
Peruvian  bark,  or  white  oak  bark. 

Verdigris. — Plenty  of  white  of  eggs  and  water. 

White  Vitriol. — Give  the  patient  j)lenty  of  milk  and  water. 

A  Cure  for  Whisky  Drinkers, — Sulphate  of  iron  five 
grains,  magnesia  ten  grains,  peppermint  water  eleven  drachms, 
spirit  of  nutmeg  one  drachm ;  twice  a  day. 


MEDICAL  HINTS 


If  a  man  faints,  lay  him  on  his  back  and  let  him  alone. 

If  any  poison  is  swallowed,  drink  instantly  half  a  glass  of 
cool  water  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  each  of  common  salt  and 
ground  mustard  stirred  into  it.  This  vomits  as  soon  as  it  reaches 
the  stomach,  but  for  fear  some  of  the  poison  might  remain,  swal- 
low the  whites  of  two  raw  eggs,  or  drink  a  cup  of  strong  coffee — 
these  two  being  antidotes  for  a  greater  number  of  poisons  than 
any  dozen  other  articles  known,  besides  the  advantage  of  their 
being  at  hand ;  if  not,  a  pint  of  sweet  oil,  or  lamp  oil,  or  drip- 
pings, or  melted  butter  or  lard  are  good  substitutes,  especially  if 
they  vomit  quickly. 

Cure  for  Hydrophobia. — Take  elecampane  root  and  boil  in 
fresh  milk;  give  it  to  the  patient,  who  should  fast  after  taking; 
give  a  second  and  third  dose  on  alternate  days.  This  remedy  has 
been  known  to  effect  a  cure  even  after  the  spasms  have  commenced. 

To  Cure  Hoarseness. — Saturate  a  flannel  cloth  with  glycerine 
and  spread  on  the  chest ;  in  half  an  hour  the  hoarseness  will  be 
relieved. — Mrs.  Sydney  Strong. 

Cough  Syrup. — One  quart  of  water,  one  pint  of  molasses, 
and  a  handful  of  hops  (tied  in  a  cloth)  ;  boil  them  together  until 
reduced  one-half ;  when  cold,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  paregoric  to 
each  cup  of  syrup ;  dose,  one  tablespoonful. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Butler. 

Whooping-Cough  Syrup. — One  ounce  of  boneset,  one  ounce 
of  slippery  elm,  one  ounce  of  flaxseed ;  simmer  together  in  one 
quart  of  water  until  the  strength  is  entirely  extracted ;  strain  care- 
fully ;  add  one  pint  of  molasses,  one-half  pound  loaf  sugar ;  simmer 
all  together  and  when  cold,  bottle  tight.  One  teaspoonful  at  a 
dose. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Haney. 

Simple  Cholera  Preventive. — An  eminent  physician  says 
the  surest  preventive  of  Asiatic  cholera  is  sulphur.     Put  one-half 


208 


THE    YOUNGSTOWN    COOK    BOOK 


teaspoonful  of  flour  of  sulphur  into  each  of  your  stockings ;  never 
go  out  with  an  empty  stomach ;  eat  no  fresh  bread  or  sour  food. 
This  is  not  only  a  preventive  in  an  epidemic  in  cholera,  but  also  in 
many  other  epidemic  diseases. 

Good  Salve  for  Burns. — One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  tallow ; 
one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  lard,  one-half  pound  of  oxide  of  zinc,  one 
ounce  of  camphor  gum ;  mix  by  heating  over  a  slow  fire. — Mrs. 
M.  I.  Arms. 

A  Cure  for  Warts. — Wet  the  brimstone  end  of  a  match,  and 
rub  on  to  the  wart,  repeating  until  the  wart  is  removed. — Miss 
Lide  Wick. 

Diphtheria. — Tar  put  between  two  layers  of  cloth  and  tied 
on  the  neck. 

A  Good  Tonic. — Ten  cents  worth  of  comfrey,  elecampane, 
spikenard,  Columbia  root,  wild  cherry  bark  and  burdock,  one-half 
paper  of  hoarhound,  five  cents  Avorth  of  rattle  root,  one  quart  of 
strained  honey,  or  two  pounds  of  sugar ;  cover  with  water  and 
steep ;  pour  off  and  repeat  the  operation  until  you  have  a  gallon ; 
when  cold,  add  one  quart  of  whisky.  Dose,  one  tablespoonful 
three  times  a  day. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Wick. 

Croup. — One  teaspoonful  of  powdered  alum,  mixed  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses. 

Cure  for  Burns  and  All  Kinds  of  Sores. — One-half  pound 
of  white  lead,  one  half  pound  of  red  lead,  two  ounces  of  camphor 
gum,  one-half  ounce  of  oil  of  spike,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  olive 
oil.  Put  these  all  together  in  a  brass  kettle ;  simmer  over  a  stove 
two  hours,  being  very  careful  not  to  burn  ;  stir  it  constantly. — Mrs. 
M.  I.  Arms. 

The  best  thing  to  stop  the  bleeding  of  a  moderate  cut  instantly 
is  to  cover  it  profusely  with  cobweb,  or  flour  and  salt — half  and 
half. 

If  the  blood  comes  from  a  wound  by  jets  or  spurts,  be  spry, 
or  the  man  will  die  in  a  few  minutes,  because  an  artery  is  severed. 
Tie  a  handkerchief  loosely  around,  near  the  part,  between  the 
wound  and  the  heart ;  put  a  stick  between  the  handkerchief  and 


MEDICAL    HINTS  209 

the  skin,  and  twist  it  around  until  the  blood  ceases  to  flow ;  keep 
it  there  until  the  doctor  comes.  If  in  a  position  where  a  handker- 
chief cannot  be  used,  press  the  thumb  on  a  spot  near  the  wound, 
between  the  wound  and  the  heart ;  increase  the  pressure  until  the 
blood  ceases  to  flow,  but  do  not  lessen  the  pressure  for  an  instant 
before  the  physician  arrives,  so  as  to  glue  up  the  wound  by 
coagulation  or  cooling  and  hardening  of  the  blood. 

If  your  clothes  take  fire,  slide  the  hands  down  the  dress, 
keeping  them  as  close  to  the  body  as  possible,  at  the  same  time 
sinking  to  the  floor  by  bending  the  knees.  This  has  a  smothering 
effect  on  the  flames.  If  not  extinguished,  or  great  headway 
gotten,  lie  down  on  the  floor  and  roll  over  and  over;  or  better, 
envelope  yourself  in  a  carpet  rug,  bed  cloth,  or  any  garment  you 
can  get  hold  of,  always  preferring  woolen. 

If  the  body  is  tired,  rest ;  if  the  brain  is  tired,  sleep.  The 
three  best  medicines  in  the  world  are  warmth,  abstinence  and 
repose. 

Cough  Syrup.— Two  ounces  of  snake-root,  two  ounces  of 
squills,  one  ounce  of  fennel  seed,  two  ounces  of  juniper  berries, 
two  ounces  of  senna,  one-half  ounce  of  anise  seed,  two  ounces  of 
Columbia  root;  to  the  entire  amount  two  gallons  of  water;  boil 
down  to  one-fourth ;  set  off  to  cool.  Strain  through  a  cloth,  and 
add  one  pint  of  whisky  and  one  quart  of  molasses.— Mr.y.  Allen 
Boyle,  Salem,  Ohio. 

Camphor  Ice.— One  and  one-half  ounces  of  spermaceti,  one- 
half  ounce  of  white  wax,  four  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  heated  to- 
gether; when  dissolved,  add  six  drachms  of  camphor  gum. 

Mustard  Plasters.— Mustard  plasters  mixed  with  sweet  oil 
(or  better,  camphorated  oil),  will  not  blister,  will  give  quick  re- 
lief in  case  of  cold  on  the  lungs,  pleurisy,  pain  in  the  back,  etc. 
White  of  an  egg  is  also  good  to  mix  with  mustard,  but  lacks  the 
heating  properties  of  the  oil. 

Camphorated  oil  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  cold-sores,  chapped 
hands  and  lips,  mumps,  sore  throat  and  chest,  bruises  and  sore- 
ness in  general.  It  is  prepared  by  putting  into  sweet  oil  all  the 
camphor  gum  it  will  dissolve. 


210  THE   YOUNGSTOWN    COOK   BOOK 

Every  household,  especially  where  there  are  children,  should 
always  keep  ready  a  bottle  of  linseed  oil,  mixed  with  lime  water, 
to  use  in  case  of  burns,  scalds,  etc.  Apply  immediately  to  the 
burnt  part,  saturating  a  piece  of  cotton  thoroughly,  and  covering 
closely  from  the  air.  Any  druggist  will  prepare  it,  or  it  can  be 
prepared  by  pouring  water  on  a  small  piece  of  lime  and,  after  it 
is  slacked,  stirring  the  water  into  the  oil  until  it  is  rather  thick. 


Order  of  Departments 

Page 

Soups 5 

Fish 14 

Shell  Fish 19 

Meats 27 

Hams 41 

Poultry 43 

Game 49 

Vegetables 52 

Salads 66 

Sauces  and  Relishes  for  Meats 74 

Eggs  and  Omelets 79 

Cheese 83 

Luncheon  Dishes 86 

For  the  Chafing  Dish 92 

Sandwiches  and  Canapes 94 

Bread,  Yeast  and  Rolls 97 

Biscuit  and  Hot  Cakes 1 06 

Pastry 11] 

Puddings 118 

Pudding  Sauces 1 29 

Fritters  and  Dumplings 1  32 

Custards,  Creams  and  Ices 135 

Beverages 1 46 

Cakes ,  151 

Icing  for  Cake    163 


Small  Cakes   1 65 

Candies 1  74 

Canned  Fruits,  Preserves  and  Jellies 177 

Pickles,  Catsup  and  Spiced  Fruits I  84 

Cookery  for  the  Sick \ 1 94 

Miscellaneous  Recipes 1 98 

Antidotes  for  Poison 205 

Medical  Hints 207 


JAN  8  1906 


h    )   i\waxxj  k-.Aru. 


\     K^jn> 


A 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  480  530  6  • 


