EAVORITE RECIPES 
Published by 


THE SENIOR GUILD 
of tho 
FIRST NORWEGIAN LUTHERAN CHURCH 
of 
ASTORTA, OREGON 


SRE EES ED eK 


Take a little dish of water cold 

And a little leaven of prayer, 

Add a bit of morning gold 

Dissolved in the morning air. 

Add to your meal some morriment 

And a thought for kith and kin, 

Then as a prime ingredient 

Plonty of.work throvm in, 

But spice 1% 011 with the essence of love 
And a littlo whif of play. 

Let a wiee old book and a glance above 
Complete the well made day. i 


Seouertree ease & ew 


This book is compiled in this form that you may clip 
eny recipe end paste it in your ow cook books 


i cake ysass 1 ten. selt 


1 cup milk 1 ogg (beaten) 
1/4 cup shortening : S-1/2 Go 4 cups sifted four 
1/2 cup sugar 1/2 cup chopped candied chorries 


Soften yeast in warm water. Scala milk and edd shortening, sugar and 
flour and mix veli.s Ada softened yeast end beaten sge. Add remaining 
flovr end mix well. Beat until smooth. Cover and ist rise until light. 


Stir down and add chorries. Drop by spoonfuls into muffin tins. Sprinkie 


with sugar. Let riso 50 or 40 minutes. Bake 425° for 50 minso 
Marian Van Osdol 


; DINWER ROLLS 
1 ceke yeast 1 ogg 
2 cups water (lukewarm) 3 cup flour 


3 cup sugar $3 Thsp. shorten’ 
2 tape salt ; i . ae 


Mix 011 togethor, then add about three more cups flour and knead thoroughly. 
Let rise until doubled. Cut off pioces ebout size of wolnut, fold noatly 
into bell and place three coach in greasod muffin tin to make clover jest 
rolls. Let rise until light, 3/1 hour, and bake in quick oven. For varia- 
tion, roll raisod dough on floured beard, spread with butter or shortening, 
sprinkle with brown sugar, raisins, and olmnamon. Roll and cut in one inch 
thick rolls, place in pan that has been greased. Let rise and bake. when 
cold frost with thin icing made from powdered sugar and milk. 

Nedra Christensen 


BRAIDED BREAD 


1 compressed yeast cake 

1 cupful sealded ané cooled milk 
1 Thsp. sugar 

1 coup flour : : é 


Crumble yeast ino milk, add Thep. sugar and one cup flour. Beat well, . 
cover and set aside te riso until coverod with bubbies, about 8/4 hours 


2/3 oup suger 1/2 tep. salt 
1/4 oup shortening S additional cups flour 
2 egg 


Creem shortening and sugar, add well beaten egg and blend with first 
mixture, gradually working jin rost of flour end calt. Knead thoroughly 
and place in oiled bord and let rise until double in bulk, about two 
hours. Turn onto floured board, divide into throe portions, knead each 
slightly and roll with palme of hands into long stripa. Place these 
side by side and braid together, beginning at the center and working 
outs toward onch end. Place on oiled pan, cover and let rise until light ~ 
3/4 hour. Brush over with slightly beaten ogg. eprinkle with sugar ond 
beke 35 so 45 minutes in moderately hot oven - S75S. Poppy seeds may bo 
ugod instead of suger when sprinkling top of bread. 

Nedre Christenson 


SWEDISH RYE BREAD 


3 cups luke warm water i Tbsp. salt 

1/2 sup molascos 1 Tbhep. caraway seed 

1/3 cup brow sugar j 1 Tbspe Anise seed 

i cake Fleischmans yeast 5 Thep. melted shortening 

2 cups rye flour, plus enough white 
flour to make a stiff dough. 


Mix water (2 cups), molasses, sugar end secdae Add rye flour and yeast 
dissolved in 1 cup water. Then add salt, shortening and enough white 
flour to make a stiff dough (about 6 cups). Let rise until double in 
bulk (about 2 hours in a warmplaco). Form into 3 loaves, let rise 
about 45 minutes and bake in a slow oven one hour. ; 

Hilda Paulsen 


JULEKAGE . 
2 cakes compressed yeast 2 tap. salt 
3 cups milk, scalded 2 eggs, beaten 
1/2 cup lukewarm water 1/2 eup chopped citron 
3/4 cup sugar 3/4 cup chopped raisins 
1/2 sup butter 1/2 eup candied cherries 
1/2 oup currants 1/2 tap. cardemom, if desired 


Flour 


Dissolve yeast in 1/2 cup lukewarm water. Pour scalded milk over butter. 
When lukewarm add yeast end sugar. Add helf of flour end salt. Beat well 
for 10 mimites, Add eggs, one at a time, beating thoroughly after each 
addition. Add fruit end remaining flour. Knoad and plece in gréased bowl 
to riso. Cover and set in warm place awey from drafts. Dough should feol | 
Slightly cool to touch. When dough has risen to double in bulk,lmead againe | 
Let rise until light, then shape into loaves and place in greased panse 
Brush tops of loaves with egg whites. When double in bulle bake in moderate 
oven 35 to 40 minutes. After removing from oven brush crusts with melted 
butter and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamone 
Seandinavian Recipes 


LIMPOR ; 
(Orange Rye Bread) 


2 cakes compressed yeast 3 cups white flour 
2 Thspe sugar 2 Tbsp. salt 

1 gto milk (slightly sor) 2 cups corn syrup 
10-12 cups rye flour 6 orange peels 


Dissolve yeast in small amount water, add sugar. Pour lukewarm milk onto 

rye flour mixed with enough flour to make a soft dough. Add yeast and beat 
Well. Add rest of flour and turn out on board, kneading dough until it is 
smooth and elastic. Let rise in warm place until double in bulk. Gut orange 
peel in smell pieces and cook in water until tender. Add 1% and the slightly 
warmed syrup to the dough. Knead until firm, adding more flour if necessary. 
Let rise again. Turn onto floured board and Imead. Shape into five loaves 
and place on floured board or cloth to rise until light. Plece carefully in 
greased bread pans, brush tops with warm water. Bake in mederate oven 350° 
for 20 minutes then increase heat to 400° for 10 minutes. After removing 
from oven brush with warm water - cover losves with oloth to keep them soft. 

Scandinavien Recipes 


Sk kk KH 


Choose a book as you would choose a friend. 


DOUBLE QUICK LIGHT BREAD 


2 cups milk, scalded g cakes yeast 
4 Tbsp. sugar 2 cups lukewarm vater 
1-1/2 Tbsp. salt 12 cups sifted flour 


3 Thep. shortening 


Combine milk, sugar, salt, and shortenings stir until dissolved and lukewarm. 

Soften yeast in a little of the water, add yeast and remaining water to cooled 

milk mixture. Add sifted flour, blend thoroughly. Knead on flaured board 

abouts 10 minutes. Place in greased bowl, cover and set to rise in warm place 

for about 1-1/2 hours. Punch gas from dough, cover and let rise for another 

1/2 houre Flatten out, cut end mold into 4 baliss let rest for 15 pce n 

closely covered. Shape into loaves. Piece in greased loaf pans, gel eee 

rise about 1-1/4 hours until dovgh is above pans. Bake in hot oven 400 

40 minutes. Part of dough can be made into rolls if desired. Makes 4 one apnea loaves. 
Nedre Christensen 


RAISED ROLLS 
4 cups flour 2 beaten eggs 
2 cakes Fleiachman's yeast 2/4 sup melted butter 
WV cup sugar 3 cup scalded milic, cooled 


i tsp. salt 


Dissolve yeast in milk, add sugar, solt, beaten eggs, melted butter, and then 
flour. Boat up inte o stiff bavter and let stand for 2 hours. Poke down and 
mold just a littlo, let stend for 45 minutes. Shepo Into small balls and 16% 
stend 25 minutese Boeke in a moderate oven fron 15-20 minutes. After baked 
put melted butter over tht crust. 


Lillian Hauke 
RAISIN BREAD 
1 cake Fleisehman's Yeast 6 cups sifted flour 
1 Tbsp. sugar 4 Thap. shortening 
1 cup lukewarm water 3/4 cup sugar 
1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 1 cup raisins, floured 


11/2 tsp. salt 


Dissolve yeast and 3 Tbsp. sugar in lukewarm waters; add lukewarm milk oo 
2 cups flour. Cream shortening and sugar together; add to yeast mixture 
beat until emooth. Cover and let rise in a worm place until light, about 11/2 
hours. When woll risen add rfaisins, salt, and romaining flour, or enough to 
male a soft dough. Knoad lightly. Place in wollegreased bowl, cover and let 
rise again until double in bulk, about 1-1/2 hours. Mould into loaves, piece 
im well greased pans to hel? full, cover and lot rise again until light, about 
+ hour. Brush with egg beaten with 2 Thep. cold waters bake about 45 minutes, 

425° for 15 minso, then reduce heat to 875°. Makes 2 leaves. 
Half of this makes a nice coffee ring. Roll out on slightly floured board 
and brush with melted shortening. Spread with jam or jelly, sprinkle with 
cinnamon, suger and chopped nuts. Shape into ring, outting thru top of roll 
every two inches. Let riso until double. Bake as for bread. Spread with 
confectioners suger frosting and sprinkie with nuts if desired. 

Hora Bue 


zeae Rk Ee , 


Pot a seal upon your lips and forget what yon have done. After you have 
been kind, after love hath stolen forth into the world and done its beautiful 
work, go back inte the shade again and say nothing about it. 


Jet 


an ee == — Se eo ee ei. ee a 
, 


1 cup sugar 1 tap. beking seda 

1/2 tsp. selt l cup sour milk 

1 ogg beaten 1/2 cup prune juice 

2 Tbsp. melted shortening 1/2 tsp. baking powder 
1 cup chopped weinuts 1-1/2 cups flour 

1 cup drained stewed prunes, cut up i. cup whole wheat fiour 


Gombine sugar, seit, beaten egg, and mix woll. Add melted shortening, 
nuts, prunes. Mix together seda, sour milk and prune juice. sift 
baking powder with white flour and add whole wheat flour. Add flour 
mixture to egg mixture alternately with sour milk mixture. Boat all 
together well, Turn into a lerge greased loaf pan and bake st $25° 
1-1/2 to 1-3/4 hours, or until done. 

; Marian Van Osdol 


DATE CAKS 
1 cup walnuts, sut fine 
1 cup dates, chopped 
1 tsp. soda Mix and cool 
1 eup boiling water | 
i cup sugar 
1-7/8 eup flour, before sifting, and add to first mixture 
1 egs 
1 tsp. salt Miz as for mayonnaise and fold into above 
2/3 cup oil 


Bako 3/4 hour in loof in moderate oven. 
Grace Sigeon 


SPANISH BUN_CAKE 


1 scant cup shortening 4 ouns flour 

2 cups brow sugar ereem together 1 tsp. cinnamon } sift together 
& egg yolks, beaten 3/4 tsp. salt 

2 egg whites 1 tspo soda 

1 cup sour milk 

1/2 cup nut meats 


i Thspe vanilla 


Pour into 10x12" pan which has been lined with gréased paper. Frosting 
and cake are baked together by sprinkling 1/2 cup uut meats over batter, 
then pouring over all two stiffly beaten egg whites mixed with 1 cup 
brown sugare Topping burna so easily thet a paper tent may be used after 
top is the right brow. Battier should be a little stiffer than ordinary 
cake. Water may be added to thin. 


Carol Nygeard 
ate nee 


Life is not so short but that there is always time enough for courtesy. 
~Emerson 


BANANA BREAD 
1 cup white sugar 2 eges 
If2 eup shortening 1 tsp. soda 
4 Tbsp. sour milk a /ree flour 
3 large bananas 1/2 tsp. salt 


Combine sugar and shortening. creaming well. Add sour milk and eggse 
Add soda and salt to flour and add alsernately with mashed bananas. 
Bake slowly one hour or longer at 300° in greased bread tin. 

Herian Van Osdol 


SOUR MILK BAKING POWDER BREAD 


cup brow sugar } 
egg beat together well 


oup sour milk 
tsp. soda Mix together and add to first mixture 
tsp. salt 


cups sifted bread flour 
tsp. beking powder Sift together and add to above 


ek ee 


cup raisins 


Bake 50 mimites to one houre 
Emily Olsen 


BLITZ KUCHEN CAKE y 


1/2 cup sugar } 4 egg whites beaten aa 
1/2 oup butter Cream together 1 cup sugar 

4 beaten egg yolks 

6 Thsp. milk 

1 cup flour 


l tsp. buster 


Put better in two cake tins. Spread ogg white mixture on batter about 

1/2 inch from edgo of pan. Cover with chopped muts. Bake in 325° oven 
for 35 ming. Turn one leyer meringue side down on plate, place other 
leyer on top meringue side up. Make a custard filling for betwoen loyerse 


Enily Olsen 
RANANA BREAD 
1/2 coup sugar : 3 mashed bananas 
1/2 cup butter 3 Thsp. sweet milk 
2 eggs 1 tsp. soda 
pinch salt 2<1/2 cups flour 


Gream butter and enger in mixer ond add unbeaten eggs one at a timo, and 
benenas. Fold in flour, salt, soda and milk. Bake 3/4 hour cr more in 
slow oven. : 


Carol Nygeard 


eee Ee 


fo err is human, to forgive divine. 
=-Pope 


LEFSE E 


2 eggs 1 cup milk be 
1 cup white syrup pinch salt 
if2 cup sugar @ tape baking powder 


Flour to desired consistency | 


Beat eggs, add sugar and syrup. Sifts dry ingredients together. 
Add milk and flour alternately, Roll ont and bake in moderate oven. | 
Hilde Andersen 


QUICK MUFFINS 


2 cups flour . 1 tep. salt 

5-1/2 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

2 Tbsp. sugar 2 Thspe mo! uiter or fat 
1 cup milk 

Hix woll end put in greased muffin tins, Bake at Sic . LU mingo 

Hilde Andersen 

: NUT BREAD 

1/2 oup sugar 1-1/2 cups milk 

4 oups flour 6 tspe boking powder 

1 tap. salt 1 egg 


i cup shopped walmts 


| 
Mix togethor, let raise 20 minutes, and bske in moderate Ovens i 
Eleanor Rasmissen 


QUICK COPFER CAKE 


2 cups fiour Toppings 
4 tsp. baking powder 4 Tbsp. flour 
1/4 tsp. salt 1 Thsp. butter 
2 Tbsp. sugar if2 oup brow sugar 
: ‘ Tbhep. shortening 1 tsp. cinnamon 
SE 
3/4 cup milk 


Mix and sift flour, beking powder, selt & sugare Cut in shortening. 

Add beaten egg and milk. Spreed to thickness of 1" in shallow pon, 

with topping spread on tope Bake in oven S75° shous 30/45 minutes. 
Bthel Berry 


x ke se 


res So long as wo Love, we serve; 
@o So long as we are loved by others 
. T would elmost say we are indispen= 
seble3 and ao man is useless while 
he has a friend. 
Robt. Lonis Stevenson. 


eek kek BR 


Our doubts are traitors, end make us lose the good we oft might win, 
by fearing to attempt. 
-Shekespeare 


Her TORE 
6 eggs i tsp. baking powder 
1a cups sugar 2-1/2 ews Telnuts 
1/2 cup flour (1 hep. over 1/2 cup) 


Beat yolks very well, add sugar and beat 15 minutes more. Add flour 
and beat well, edd egg whites and nuts. Bake 50 minutes at 350°. 
Cut in squares and serye with whipped creome 


Jordis Tetli 
BUTTER FINGERS 
7/8 cup butter 2 coups flour 
1 cup nuts 1 tsp. venille 
5 Thsp. suger 1 Tbsp. water 


Roli in small bells and press flat with fingers. Sprinkle with sugar 
before baking. Bake 15 mins., 400°. 
cordis Tetli 


SPICE SQUARES 


Cover 1 cup raisins with water and cook 20 minutes. 
Drain liquid off and use 1/2 cup. 


1/4 eup Spry 1.1/2 sups flour 
3/4 cup suger Crean 1 tap. soda sift 
1 oge together 2 tsp. cinnamon together . 
1/2 oup raisin liquid 1/2 tsp. nutmeg 
1/4 tap. salt 


Adda sifted mixture to creamed mixture. Pour in shallow pan and bake in 
350° oven 25 minutes. Tee with powdered sugar icing if desired. Cut in 
squarese 

Mreo Ed Hjorten 


GUM DROP COOKIES 


4 eges 1 oup chopped nuts 
2-1/2 cups brown sugar 18 largo gum drops cut fine 
2 eups flour 


Beat oggs, add avgar and mix well. Add flour, nuts and gum drops. Spread 
thinky on greased and floured pan. Bake 20 minutes. 
Hilda Andersen 


. 


NORSK HJORTEBAKELSE 


V2 aup butter 1 tsp. beking powder 
1 cup sugar 1/4 tsp. salt 

4 egga 2 tep. cardamom 

4 coups flour 1 tsp. brandy 


Cream butter and suger. Add beaten eges. Sift dry ingredients and add 
brendy. Let stand about an hour, Roll dough between hands and make vingso 
Cook in deep fat as doughnuts er fattigmend. 

Hilda Andersen 


2 

a 1 cup butter 2 ogg yolks, beaten . 
1 cup powdered sugar 1/2 tep. salt 

2a1/2 cups flour 1 tsp. almond extract 

] Crean butter, beat im powdered sugars edd almond oxtra,t and egg yolks. 
Aa@d flour and salt ond miz well. Put dough in cockcle pross and make 


Sie: cookics of wrious gesiens. Brush tops with beaten egg whites to which 
uf 1 tsp, water has been added. Sprinkle with crushed loaf sugar. Beke 
. =a about 10 minutes in hot oven until e light brown. 
=) . Seandizavian Recipes 


SUGAR COOKIES 


Be F 2 
ete e2 1/2 Ib. butter 3 eegs | ; Fae 

1/2 1b. sugar 1/2 tap. baking ponder ‘ = 
‘ vanilla or caroway seod Flour cnough to make a stiff dough ais 


Wix together well, roll cut thin end ovt with cookie eutter. ae 
Mrs. Ro Johnson =i 
eae CURISTHAS ROCKS 


1 cup butter or Crisco 1 tap. baking goda dissolved in 
1-1/2 euns sugar 1 Tbsp. hot water 


3 eggs, well beaten 1 cup walnut moats ee 
3 sups flour 1 cup raising CU prose ey 


Mix together well, drop on buttered pan by teaspoon. Beke in a rather 


a glow ovens 
Urs Ro Johnson 


= BERLINER KRANSB 


1 ibe butter 4 egg yolks 
1-1/2 coups sugar 2 egg whites 
flour 


Cream sugar and butter, stir in eggs and enough flour to make a stiit 
dough. Gut off a emall piece, roli lengthwiee and form into circle. 
Dip in well beaten ogg and olther granulated or powdered sugar and balsa 
j in a moderate sven. 
= Cee Mrso Ro Johnson 


ROLLED OATS COORTES 


1 cup suger 2 eups rolled oats 


1 cup butter or shortening 4 Thep. cream — 
_ 1 tsp. daking powder i cup flour, or more 


Hix together well, drop by speonfulla on a ceckie sheet. Rake in a 
moderate ovens. 


ch 


Mrss Ro Johnson 


See aA DK be % 


ae " : : leo aes 
be 3 ee 5 good and cafe vule Go gojura in every plese as if you meant 
te spend your life there, uever omitting an opportunity of doing a 


es, or speaking & true Word, oF making @ friend. || 
2 way part 2 ie ~Ruskin hc 
= Z| ; 


--heete, dates, and vanilla. Drop from teaspoon onto cookie sheet covered with 


_ Sift together flour, baking powler & salt. Cream together shortening and 


IGE BOX DATE COOKIES 
2GE BOX DATE COOKIES 


First Part Second Part 
i cup brow suger - 1 pound dates 
1 cup white sugar 1/2 evp susor } Boll together 
1 cup shortening V2 eup wcor and cool 
3 eggs 


4 cups flour 

1/2 tap. aalt 

1/2 tsp. soda | 
1/2 tsp. cinnamon 


_ Mix and roli first part flat like for jelly roll end epread filling, second part, 


One Roil up like jelly roli, slice thin and beke. Usually it ia best to mix 
and roll in the morning, then chill, an& sut and beke in the afternocne 
Mree Ae Kvistad 


OATMEAL COOKIES 


1 coup shortening 1-1/2 cups sifted flour 

3/4 cup brow sugar 1 tsp. soda 

3/4 oup white suger 1 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. vanilla 2 cups oatmeal . 
2 eggs 1 cup walnuts 

2 pkk. chocolate chips 1 cup raisins, (cooked in ; 

: 2 Tosp. water) ¥. 


Cream shortening, edd sugar and cream woll. Add vanilla, then oggs one 
at a time and beat. Add dry ingredients which have been sifted together. 
Add vest of ingredients. Drop by spoonful on greased pan. Rake about 
$76°, 10 to 12 mins, 

: Mrse A. Kvistad 


DATE AND NUT FINGERS 


Y/4 tepo salt 1 Tbsp. flour 
3S Ops whites 2 cups broken pecan meats 
1-3/4 oup confectioners sugar i cup chopped datos 


1 tsp. vaniile 


Add salt to egg whites; boat to stiff foam. Add sugar sifted with flour, 
one tablespoon at a times contirme beating until very stiff. Fold in nut 


unwaxed paper. Shape into fingers, either by hand or with spoon. Bake in slow 
oven, 500°, 55 minutes. Makes 2 dso fingers. 


Nora Bue 
APPLE COOKIES 
2 cups sifted flour 2 epges beaten 
$8 tspo baking powder i tsp. grated lemon rind 
i tap. salt 1 tsp. vanille 


1/2 cup shortening 1 cup ground, tmpeeled apples 
i “eup suger eee 


elt until light. Add eggs, beat well. Add lemon rind, vanilla and apples. 


_ Add flour mixture, blend well. Drop by teaspoonfullis on greased baking sheet.  —_ E 


‘Beke 360° for 15 minutes. Bakes 5 dzo 
Hora Bue 


CREAM PUFF SHELLS 


1/2 cup shortening 1 cup sifted flour 
1/8 tspo mls 4 eggs unbesten 
1 sup boiling water 


Add shortening and salt to wetor and heat to boiling. Reduce heat 

and add flour. Stir vigorously until it forme a bail around spoon. 
leaving pan clean. Remove fran heat. Add one egg at a time, beating 
vigorously after each addition. Drop by tablespoon on ungreased baking 
sheet. Bake at 450° for 20 minutes. After 20 minutes reduce heat to 
350° end bake 20 minutes longer. 


Nora Bue . 
ICE GREAM COOKIES 
6 Thsp. butter 1 tep. venilia 
6 Tbsp. confectioners sugar 1 coup flour 


2 beaten egg yolk 


Crean butter end sugar thoroughly, add oge yolks and vanilla, beat woll. 
Add flour and drop from teaspoon onto wagreased cookie sheet. If desired 
decorate with bite of candied fruit, nut meats, or candles. Beke in 
moderate oven 360° 15 to 20 minutes. Lekes 2 de. cookies. 


fora Bue 
CHOCOLATES CORKFLAKE MACAROONS 
3 ege whites 1 cup somi-sweet chocolate 
1/2 tsp. salt 1 tap. venille 
3/4 cup suger 8 cups corn flakes 


Add salt to ogg whites, boat. Graduelly add sugar, beat very stiff. 
Fold in remaining ingredients. Dzop from teaspoon onto greased cookie 
sheet. Boeke in moderate oven 350° for 15 minutes. Makes about 6 dzo 


Nore Bue 
COCOANUT SQUARES 
5 egg yolks, beaten F 1 cup water 
1-1/2 cups sugar (add gradually to ogg yolks) 2 tep. baking powder 
2-1/2 cups flour pinch salt 
5 ogg whites, beaten & folded in i tsp. vanilla 


Boke in oblong pan about 30 minutes. hen cool out in omall squares 
and fvost individually as, follows: 

1/2 cup butter ees Oe ok 

3 cupe powdered sugar | 
% Tosp. mlik or sroen 

i tep. vanilla 


Prost individual cakes on all sides and 
, then robl in browmed cocoanut 


Brow tho coconnut in oven until light browm, stirring occasionally 
S0 it docsn*t burns 
Ethel Berry 


Lincoln's heart was ag greae 4s the worid, vuc tnere was no room 2n 2G 
to hold the memory of a uronge 
~Emersone 


MEPS 


ALMOND COOKIES — ] 
‘Lege | 2 cups flour . 
V2 cup brown sugar 1 tsp. beking soda : : 
1/2 cup white sugar 1 tsp. cream tartar 
3/4 cup shortening k 1/2 tsp. salt 
3/4 cup chopped nuts "ep. almond extract 
Drop by teaspoon on greased pan and flatten with forks 5 
Bake in 350° oven about 10 minutes, bal 
Mrs. Ba Hjorten \ 


' d,Pkes.. Philadelphia Croan Cheese } 
(2 i. atten j 


_ 4 eooked egg yolks 1 coup suger 


6 ege yolks 6 Thsp, sweet croam 
i fbsp. meited butter 4 Tbsp. sugar 
2/8 tsp. -seit 1/8 tsp. ground cardamom 


Flour enough to roll ous: 


Beat eggs wells add sugar and mix well. Add rest of ingredients. Rell j 
thin, out in diemond shape and fry in deep fat at 370° for 2 or § minutes i 
or until golden brown: Dustwith powdered als 

vn ( sesaainert al Recipes) 


FROSTED COOKIES 


7/8 oup shortening 2 tsp. vanilla 
4 Thspo powdered sugar 1 tep. water 
1/4 tsp. salt nut meats 


2 oupe cake flour 


Blend shortening end sugar and salt. Add flour, vonilla end water. 
Makes a thick dough = add nut meats. Take a teaspoon full, size of a 
walnut, roll inpalm of hands to a baile Place on cookle sheet. When 
sheet is full flatten cookies by placing a damp cloth over the sheet and 
prescing eaoh cookie down with bottom of a glaga. Bake 10-12 minutes 
at 360°, When cool frost with mapoleine powdered sugar ising, a very 
gmail amount on each ono as these cookies are very richo 

Jennie Kolm 


FROZEW PARTS i 
: 3H ? ereinarenenrrnnercrene 


Cream togathor 

2 cups flour * 

Chill in refrigerators Roll out, cut in squares or circles. Put a 
dash of fruit preserve in center and fold dough over fruit. Bake until 
brown at 375°, 

Ede Hauke Ross 


NORWEGIAN WREATH COOKIES 


¥ 


4 rem ege yolks ; 6 cups flour 
rages ae of _ 2 cups butter . 


Mix flour and: suger, edd mashed cooked egg yolke which have been mixed Be 
with rew yolks, Work in tutter last. Roll out end cut wath @ wees 
cutter. Eats 325° oven about 15-20 mimtes» aa * 

+ Emily Olsen } 


SCORCH TRELBIES 


2-1/2 cups ali purpose flour 2 cups oatmeal 

1 tsp. soda 1/2 cup sour milk 

1/2 evp butter 1 Ib, pitted dates or 
1/2 cup shortening 3-1/2 cups chopped dates 
1 cup brow sugar firmly packed 3/4 cup sugar 


1 cup water 


Sift flour, measure and sift again with soda. Cream butter and add 
suger gradually, creaming until light end fluffy. Combine flour with 
oatmeal, add alternately with milk to creamed mixture, mixing well 
after each additions Chill. Roll to one half inch thickness on 
lightly floured board, cut with cookie cutter. Bake on well greased 
eookie sheet 15 to 20 mins. or until a light brown in a moderate oven 
350°, Move to rack and coole 

Fillings 


_ Cook dates, sugar and water together 5 minutes and chill. To sorve 


put two trilbies together with date filling. Makes about three dozen 


cookisse 
Wilma Englund 
APPLE OATMEAL BARS 
1 coup flour ) 
Ve tsp. salt Sift together 
1/2 tspe soda : 
1/2 eup brow suger ; 


Add 1 cup catmeal, end cut in half cup Crisco or part butter. Crumble 
together. Use helf,pet in pane Silico apples on top, dot with 2 Tbsp. 
batter ard 1/2 cup brom suger. Cover with rest of crumb mixture. 
Bake $509 oven shout 40 mimtes. 

Carol Nygeerd 


ANTSE DROPS 
& oges 1 tep. baking powder 
1-1/2 cups sugar . 6 drops o11 of Anise 
2 coupe flour, sifted 5 times 
Beat eggs very light, stir in sugar and beat herd for 1/2 hour. 
When very light fold in flour and baking powder. Add enise o11 
a drop at a time, beating efter each drop. Let it stand for 8-10 
hours, then drop on greased tins by small teaspoonfuls. Bake a 
very light brow. 

Johenm, Meolisen 


SWEDISH BALL COOKIES 


1 cup butter 2 cups chopped pecans, or any nut 
1/4 cup sugar ey A cups pastry flour 
2 tep. vanilla 1/4 tsp. colt — 


Gream butter, edd sugar, beat woll. Add other ingredients and bake in 


moderate oven, 325° about 25 mins. As soon es baked dip in powdered sugars : 


Emily Olsen 


Been ns 


If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chepels had been 
churches, and poor men's cottages princes’ pélaces. - ; 
~Shakespeare 


4 ae Sp oS ae 


ital 
id 


& 


CHOCOLATE SPANISH CREAM CAKE 


1/2 pup butter 2 sups sifted cake flour 
wife gups suger 3 tspo baking ponder 

6 Thep. cocoa 1/2 cup mill 

5 Tosp» boiling water 1 tep. vanilla 

fow grains salt 4 ege whites, beaten 


Gream butter and sugar. Mix cocoa with boiling water and add to creamed — 
mixture, Sift dry ingredients and add alternately with liquid. Fold in 
stiffly beaten egg whiteso Bake in two 9" layer cake pans in a pre-heated 


oven 350° for 25-30 minutes. 
dchanna Nielsen 


NEVER FAIL CHOCOLATE CAKE 


i/2 cup butter or shortening 3 tep. baking powier 
2 oups sugar ltsp. salt 

4 eges 1 cup miik 

3 sqvarea chocolate 1 tsp. vanille 


2-1/3 cup cake flour 

Groam shortening and suger, add eggs one at a time, then edd melted chocolate. 
Sifts dry ingredients, and add alternately with mill to which vanilla has 

been added. Bake in two 9" leyer pans at 375° for 40 minutes. 


zosne! Creem together a slice of butter and a whole egg. Add 2 oups 


powdered suger. Then add $ Thsp. chocolate melted in hot coffee, and 
vanilla. ; 
Madeline Kvistad 
SGYPPIAN DREAM CAKE 

1/2 cup butter 1/2 ow milk 

1-1/2 ovp sugar 1-3/4 cups flour 

4 egg yolks 2 tspo baking powder 

4 Tbsp. chooolete dissolved in 1/2 oup chopped nuts added 

wee fTosp. boiling weter to flour before adding 

pw" ue tsp. vanilla to mixture 


a 
Y Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites last. Bake in 2 layerse 


Wee : Prostings Gream 1/2 cup butter, add poessres sugar and enough cosca to 
Golo ert e rortes and vanilla. BIOY GS arew. 
Z 


a 
aby Fe eo KR KD 


Wrinkles disfigure a woman less then 111 nature. 
“Dupuy 


Johanna Nielsen 


3 ¢eg whites 
_ 1/4 tap. selt 
. 8/4 cup suger 
3 ege yolks 


Beat egg whites with salt to form moist gl 
one hoalf the above omount of sugar. Ina 
remaining half of suger, beat until thick. 
juice and beat until sugar is dissolved. 
power. Fold in ogg white mixture. Bake 
1 hour at moderate heat, 326°. Invert to 
or thin powdered sugar icing. 


APPLESAUCE CAKE 


3/4 sup shortoning 
1/2 sup brow sugar 
i cup white sugar 
2 eges 

201/2 coups flour 
Le1/4 tsp. soda 


Cream shortening and sugars 
alternately with sifted dry ingredients. 
Heke 45 minutes ot $25°. 


APPLESAUCE CAKE 


1/2 cup shortening 

i sup sugar 

1 oge 

2 oups flour 

1/2 tep. nutmeg 

1/2 tep. salt 

1/2 oup raieine or currants 


Sreem shortening, sugar and age. 


Add raisins and nuts last. 


Signe Gagnet 
YUM YUM GUMS 
1/2 cup shortening 1 cup sour milk 
1 egg 1 tap. soda 
2 cupa flour 1/2 tsp. cloves 
i oup raising 1 tep. nutmeg — 
1 owp brown suger : : 
a) é Blend shortening, suger end ogg. Stir in sifted dry ingredients alternntely 


with sour milk. 
use paper baking cups. 
Makes about 18 cokes, 


Add reisius and nuts. 


These xeon woll and 


cee eee 


Add well beaten eggso 
Lastly add raisins and nutes. 


We pardon in the degree thet we Loves 


PINGAPPLE FLUFF CAKE 


1-1/2 tsp. lex m juice 
1/4 cup pineag le juice 
3/4 cup cake i our 

1/2 tapo beking powder 


esy peaks , gradually beat in 


Sarger beml beat ege yolks, add 


Add lemon juice and pineapple 
ad flour sifted with baking 

n ungreased angel food pan for 
ool. Sexve with whipped creen 


Jennie Keim 


1/4 top. salt 

1 tsp. cinnamon 

3/4 tap. clovea 

1-8/4 sup hot applesauce 
1 cup raisins 

i cup auts 


Then add applesauce 


Rachel Rasmassen 


iL coup applesance, sweetened for 
table uso 

1 tsp. sede 

i %ep. cinnamon 

1/2 aa: allspice 

2 Thsp. het water . 

1/2 cup uute, choppod 


Ada sifted dry ingredients and applesauce. 
Before the last of applesauce is added stir in soda dissolved in hot water, 
Bake in loaf pan about ene hour, 350°, 


Pour into greased cup cake tina or 
Beke in moderate oven, 350°, for 15 or 20 minutes. 


are good with or without icsings 
Lenore Hauke f 


2/3 cup ahortening ; 3 tsp. bakiv~ powder 
1-3/4 cup sugar L tape eG 

8 eges : 1 cup milk 

3 cups cake flour 2 tspe vanilla 


Cream shortening, add sugar and stir until creamy. Addeges, one at a 
time, beating efter each addition. Sifts fiour, beking powder and solt 
and edd to oreemed mixture alternately with milk. Add vanille. Prehost 
oven to 4250 = then beke at 375° for 30 or 35 minutos. 


Grece Johnson 
SURSHINS LAYER CAKS 
23/4 cups sifted cake flour 1-1/4 cup suger 
2=3/4 tsp. deking powder 8 ese as 
1/2 tsp. salt 3/4 eup milk 
3/4. cup butter 12 tsp. lemon extreot 


Mix in the usual manner <« beko st 575° 20-80 minutes. 
-  Sernice Johnson 


WHITE CAKE 5 
4 eggs 2 oups cake flour 
2 cups suger 2 tspe baking powmiler 
1 cup milk 1/4 tep. sols 
2 Thep. bubter 1 spo vanilla 


Beat eggs well, Add cugate Sift together dry ingredients. Add to first 
mizture. Bring to boil milk and butter and add to mixture. Add vanilla, ; 
bake at 375°, 

Hilda Andersen ! 


CHRISTMAS CHERRY CAKE 


2-1/4 cups fleur 1/4 cup chorry juico z 

3 tap. beking powder 16 cherries cut in Sts {Marachino) 
1/2 tsp. salt 4 ege whites 

1-1/3 cups eugar 1/2 cup chopped mts 

1/2 cup shortening 3/2 cup milk 


To all dry ingredients, flour, salt, beking powder and sugar, add the 
shortening, thorry juice, chorrics end milk and boat about two minutes, 
then add unbeaten ogg whites. ‘Thon beat for another two minusss. Fold in. 
chopped nuts end bake 4m 5509 oven util done. 

dordis Tetii 


LENON CAKE PIE 


2 cup sugar 2 Thsp, flour 

i Tbsp. butter duice and grated rind of 
2 ogg yolks i=3/2 Lemons 

i coup miik : Whites 2 eggs 


Gream butter and sugar and stir in well beaten egg yolks. Add flour, nilk, - 


_ and lemon juice and vind. Fold in beaten ege whites and pour mixture inte rich — = 


uncooked pie ocruste Pub in oven at 450° for 10 mins., then reduce heat to ‘S500 
and bake 25 mins. ox more. Tho top will be like spoage cake, botton like ougtard. 
Jonnie Kelm ae 


| 
k 
aif 
ia 
| 


COWBOY GAKE 


Rai /foups four 

2 cups brown sugar 

: %BPo hese Mix together and take out 1/2 oup 
5 evp shortenin for % of coke 

1/2 tspe elie anion Bike 

1/2 usps nutmeg 


2 tsp. baking powder 
1/2 Gepe soda : Add to first mixture and sproad in 


& eggs greased pan 
i cup sour mill: 


Ada to 1/2 cup topping 1/2 tape elnnemon and e fow shopped nuts. 
Pub topping on beke battere Bake at 375° abowt 1520 mimtes. 
Hilde Anderson 


BANANA SPICE CAKE 


1el/2 eup suger L tep. soda 
1/2 eup butter 1/2 tsp. salt 

2 eges i tepe Ginvamon 
1/4 oup sour milk 1/4 tep. nutmeg 
2 cups cake flour 1/4 teps dleves 


i tep. baking powdor 1 cup mashed bananas 


Wiz tegethor in usual fashleae Baio in moderate oven about 40 mins. 
Bernico Johnson 


CHOCOLATE CAKE 


1/2 cup buster (part shortening) 1 cup white sugar 
i. Qs Bakers chocolate i cup brown sugar 
3 eggs (beaten together) 1/2 cup woter 

1 tsp. Baking soda 1/2 cup bustermilk 
lL tsp. baking powder 1/2 tsp. salt 

2 eups cake flour 1 tepe vanilla 


Cream shortening & sugar, add beaten eggs and melted chocolate. Fill 
oup with water & buttermilk and add sodas Mix alternately with flour 
to which has boon added baking powders Add vanilla. Makes two good 
sised layers. Bake about 350° for 25 to SO mins. 

Hilda Paulson 


GINGERBREAD 


1 cup sugar mix together 1/2 cup diacte mohepese) Mix until 

i large egg 1 tzp. soda foamy in cup 
1 cup boiling water ) } 

1/2 cup lard melted in water 

2 tsp. ginger 

flour {about 1-1/2 cups) 

salt 


4da molasses mixture to firet mixturo, then add meter with lerde Add enough 
flour for softs, runny batter. Bake about 1/2 hour. 
This com also be made with other kind of shortening by orcoming 1% with 
suger first and using 1/2 cup sour milk with 1/2 cup boiling water. 

\ Myso LeE. Tonnant 


ss ee 8 4 


in the mon whose childhood has know: earosses there lies a Giber of monory 
which san be touched to nobler issued. 
-Georgs Eliot 


V Baer, 


"LAST MINUTE" FRUIT CAKE 


1/2 cup shortening 1/4 cup water or brandy 

1 cup suger 1/2 cup almonds (cut fine) 
1 ege 1/4 cup welnuts 

1 unsweetemed applesause 3/2 cup raisins er currants 
2-1/2 cups ceke flour 1/4 cup detes (out fine) 
1/2 tsp. nutmeg 1/4 cup candied cherries 
1/2 tsp. cinnamon 1/4 cup candied pineapple 
1 tep. soda 1/4 cup candied lemon peel 


1 tepo salt 


Cream shortening, add sugar and cream thoroughly. Blend in well beaten 

eggs and add the cooled appleseuco. Sift flour once before measuring, ? 

then sift flour, spices, salt and soda. Add alternately with wter to creamed 

mixture, then add fruit end nuts thich have been mixed with last addition 

of flour. Pour into greased and floured pan. Bake 45 minutes at 350° 

in 8" square pan. 
; Grace Sisson 


UP-SIDE-DOWN CAKE 
2 Tbsp. butter ) Melt butter in large skillet over slow fire and ' 


2 cup brown sugar)sprinkle evenly with suger. When suger is moited 
remove from stove and arrange fruit over sugar. 


3 oge yolks, beaten While beating eggs gradually add the 
VA cup sugar suger, then the water 
2 cup boiling water 


1 suger ‘ 

1-1/2 cup cake flour Sift together and fold into above mixture 
1 tsp. baking powder 

1/4 tsp. salt 


5 egg whites stiffly beaten and folded in last. 


Pour over fruit in skillet and beke 350° oven about 45 mimtes. Turn out 
on rack immediately. Pineapple, peaches, apricots or rhubarb may be usede 


Carol Nygaard 
WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

2 oups butter } 1 lb. each of raisins, sultanas, 

2 cups suger Cream together and dates : 
2 eggs - beaten in one at a tine 1/2 1b. each citron, cherries (shoppe 
4 oups flour 1/4 1b. each lemon, orange peol " — 
1 lemon, juice and grated rind 2 slices candied pineapple, chopper 

1 orange, juice and grated rind 2 tsp. salt b 

4 cups nuts, chopped 2 tap. baking powder 


Bake 1 to 1-1/2 hours in slow oven. 
Petra Henningsen 


Sarees ES 


The great use of life is to spend it for something that outlaste it. 
~Hmo James 


PECSt TESS | eee Pewee 


SOUR CREAM FILLING 


1 cup sour cream ; 
1 cup suger ; 


@ 2 ege yolks 


Stir all together and cook slowly until right to r>read. Add vanilla. 
. Baily Olsen 3 


CLEVER JUDY ICING 


1 cup sifted confeotioners sugar 2 squares melted chocolate 
1 Tbsp. butter 1 ogg 
1/4 cup milk 1 tep. vanilla 


Cream together the powersd sugar and butter. Add rest of ingredients 
and beat until smooth ond thick. 
Merian Van Oadol 


ORANGE AND LEMON FILLING 


Grated rind 1 orenge 1 egg 
Grated rind 1 lemon 1/2 cup sugar 
3 Tbsp. cornstarch 2-1/2 cups water 


Juice of 1 orange 
Juice of 1 lemon 


Put water, sugar in emall pan or frying pan and bring to boil, Beat egg 
and mix with cornstarch, Add to suger and water, stirring until thickened. 
Add juices and rind and cook until thickened. Cool and use for cake filiing. 
(Very fast to mke and enough for a three-layered cake. ) 
Lenore Hauke 
MAMA'S LEMON FILLING 


4 Tbsp. butter 2 eggs, beaten 
1/2 coup sugar 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 


Cook all together in double boiler. SBxcellent Milling for uhite oske> 
Lillien Hauke 


ty PEAWOT CREAM FROSTING 
e Wash 2/3 oup butter in cold water to remove salt. Creem butter thoroughly, 
add 1 cup sifted confectioners sugar gradually end cream until very light 
and fluffy. Add 1/2 cup peanut butter e smali amount at a time. Cream vel 
efter each addition. Fold in 1/3 eup sifted sugar again. (Good with 
chocolate cake). 
Wilma Englund 


oe ee oe F 


Remember your tongue is in = wet plase emi likely to slip. 


GOLDEN CREAM PILLING 


1/2 oup suger 
S Tospe cake flour Combine in top of double boiler 
1/4 tsp. sale 


l-i/2 cups milk gradually added to above, mixed thoroughly, and cooked 
ten minutes, stirring constantly. Pour smail amount of mixture over 2 
slightly beaten ege yolks, stirring vigorously. Return to double boiler 
and cook 2 minutes longer, stirring constantly. Add 1 tsp. vanilla and 
Soole Ifa deeper yellow is desired add a few drops yellow colording. 
Makes enough filling to spread between two 9" cake layers. 

F Yalma Englund 


CHOCOLATE WALNUT CREAM FILLING 


i square unswootaned chocolate } Heat together in double boiler. When 
3/4 cup milk chocolete is molted beat with rotary 
ege beater until blended. 


2 Thep. cake flour) cook until thickened, stirring constantly. 
Dash salt 2 


Continue cooking for 5 minutes, add 1 Tbsp. butter and 1 tsp. vanilla. 
Chill thoroughly. Fold in 1/2 exp ereem, whipped, and 1/2 chopped 
Welnutse Makes 2 cupfuls. Especially good on chocolate cake. 

Wilma 


G6 Tbspe sugar Combine and add gradually to chocolate mixturo ani 


Englund 
CREAM ICING 
‘16 Thap. soft butter 4 Thep.e boiling water 
24 Thepe sifted powder sugar 4 tep. vanilla 


8 Tbhepe thick creem or canned milk 


Green butter, add sugar a tablespoon at a time. Cream to waxy consistency, 

add cream one tablespoon at a time and beat until fluffy, about 10 mins. 

Add boiling water and beat until cool, add vanilla. / ; 
dordis Tetli 


FOUR MINUTE ICING 


1/2 ovp white Karo 1/4 tep. ereem of tartar 
4 {bep. suger i Egg White : 
Beat over boiling water in duble boiler for four minutes. Add 


_ marshmellows 4f desired. Add 1 teaspoon varilla. . 
; Grace Johnson — 


44 


zee en a 


Ho one is usoless in the world whe lightona the burden of it for 
anyone elses 


_ -Dickens> ey ioe 


FOR CARE ae 
2 CARB 


ewae se eee seet oar 


1/2 cup buster : 1/2 oup coc sookies 
3/2 oup powdered sugar 3/4 ovup welavts : 
2 epe yolks, woll beaten i-1/2 tep. cherries 
1/2 tsp. vanilla 1-1/2 tsp. pineapple 

“2 ge whites dordis Tetli 


MOCHA ICING 


1/8 cup butter 1 Thep. coffee (oecled) 
1-1/2 coup powdered sugar 1 Thepo cocoa 
i egg yoik 1/3 tap. salt 


Eleanor Rasmussen 


HONEYHUT FILLING 


1 cup nuts - 1 fbspe orange rind, grated 
2 Tespe butter 1 Tbsp. orango juice 
1/2 cup honey 1 egg beaten t 


Add ali together and cook, stirring constextly over low heat. Let cool 
and spread on coffee bread before rolling up. 
: Lenore Hauke 


| WHITE MOUNTAIN ICING 
1 cup suger : 
3/8 cup cold water 
salt 
Boil until it threads. Pour slowly over beaten egg white. Add flavoring. 
Nedra Christensen 
FUDGE FROSTING : 


3/4 cup browm sugar 3/8 cup milk 

3/4 oup white suger : 1/2 tep. vanilla 
1-3/2 squares chocolate 1/2 Foep. butter 
salt 


Cook sugar, chocolate and milk until it makeez a soft ball when dropped in 
eold watere Remove from fire, add vanilla eng butter and beat until of 
right consistency to pours : 2 


Nedra Christensen 
e 


re a ae 


If any little word of ours can make one life 
the brighter; 

If any little song of ours can make one heart 
the lighters : 

God help us speak that little word, and take 
our bit of singing, 

And drop it in some lonoly vale, and set the 
echoos ringing. 


x 
ses de 


Light after darkness, gain efter loss, strength after suffering, crown afte: 
2 ae te 


By) 
Ds 


ad = et alien als Seat 
BLES 
RHUGARB PIE 
2 eupe finely chopped rhubarb 8 Thsp. water (secant) 
1 oup sugar Yolke of 1 or 2 ogges 
1-1/2 Tbsp. flovr (slightly rounded) Dot with bits of butter 


Put egg in bowl, add water ard heat. Add sugar and flour, mix thoroughly 

with rhubarb. Beke in unbsked orust. Pie should be congealed like 

custard to be doneo Add meringue and bake it slowly about 15 minutes. 
Nedra Christensen 


SUNLIGHT CHIFFON PIE 


1 envelope Knox Golatine 1/2 oup lenon juice 

1/4 oup cold water _ 1/2 tap. salt 

4 oges 1 tep. grated lemon riad 
1 oup suger 


had 1/2 ovp sugar to beaten ogg yolk and cook in double boiler until 

of custard consistoney» Add grated lemon rind and cool. When mixture 

begins to thicken fold in stiffly beaten egg whites, to which other 1/2 cup 

sugar has been added. Fill into baked pie shell or delicious in Graham 

Gracker crust. Chili » before serving top with thin leyer whipped cream. 
Wilma Englund 


CREAM PIE (NEVER FAIL) 


1 cup canned milk Pinch salt 

1 sup water 2 egga (soparated) 
1/4 cup flour 1 Thep. butter 
1/2 eup sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 


Blend milk and water in top of double boiler. Teke 1 cup of milk mixture 

and add to it the suger, salt and flour, mix well and add to milk in boiler. 
Stir constantly over boiling water wxtil it thickens. Cover and cook 10 ; 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Your over well=beaten egg yolks and return 
to double boiler. Cook about 2 minutes. Add butter and cool. Add vanilla 
and pour into pie shell, Beat egg whites for meringue, adding 1/4 oup sugeare 
Bake in slow oven (325°) until brome 


Variations: 
Cocoanut oream pic -~ add 1/4 oup shredded cocoanut to fillings 
Chocolate pie == add 2 squares unsweetened chocolate to milk in double 
: boiler, beating until chocolate ie molted and milk scalded. 

Banana eream pie -~ Slice 3 or 4 bananas into baked pie shell. 

Peach cream pic =~ Substitute 1/2 tsp. lemon extract for the vanilla, slice 
3 fresh or canned peaches into baked pie shell. Top with 
whipped cream or moringuec 

Lenore Hauke 


a 
The men who try to do something and fail are infinitely hotter than those 


who try to do nothing and succeed. 
«Lloyd Jones 


LEMON CREAM PIB 


§ Tbsp. sorustarch 
3 Thsp. cold water 
pinch salt Mix in double boiler 


1 sup boiling water - add to above and cook 
3 ege yolks and 1 white beaten until fluffy } beat together until 
1 cup sugar like whipped srean 


Pour egg mixture into first mixture stirring contimally until it starts 
to thicken. Take off stove, add a little butter, o001 before putting 
into pie shell. : 


Meringue: 2 egg whites Beet whites until stiff ~ add suger 
4 Thspe suger and baking powder and beat until 
1/8 tsp. baking powder ) glossy. 


Bake 325° from 10 to 15 minuses. 
Madeline Kvistad 


GRAEAM GRACKER PIE 
16 Graham Crackers, rolled fine 


1 tep. flour Mix togother end pack in 
1/2 cup shortening - mostly bubter ~ molted ) pie pan ~ saving a Little 
2/2 oup gramilated sugar for top of pie 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
Fillings 
3 ege yolke 2 cups milk 
1/4 cup sugar 2 Thsp. cornstarch 
2 tsp. vanilla q 


Mix togethor and cook in double bolier until thickened, cool slightly and 
pour into shell. Hoke a meringue of 3 egg whites and 3 Tbsp. sugero 
Spread on top of custard. Sprinkle remaining erumb mixture over top ond 
bake in mederate oven (325°) until brom. 


Lillian Hauke 
: PoMPKIN PIs —— 
i cup browm sugar 1 tsp. ginger 
1 eup white sugar 1 tep. mutmog 
3 cups milk 1/2 tepo ealt 
3 eggs 3 cups pumpkin 


2 tép.e cinnamon 
Cook together a while on top of stove,thon pour into unbaked shell, 


Bako about 10-15 minutes o% 450°- then reduce hoat ard cook slowly 
until seto i 


Olga Henningsen 


es 2S kk oe 


If there's a job te be done, I always ask the busiest man in my perish 
to teke it on and it gets done. F 
~ Honry werd Booshipe? 


APRICOT ANGEL PIS 


4 egg whites i Tbsp. lemon juice 
1 cup sugar 1/2 cup thick apricot pulp 
pinch salt ¥ 


Beat egg whites until otiff ard continue beating while adding the sugar 
a@ spoonful at a time. Thon cerefulliy fold in the apricot pulp, then the 
iemon juico. Put into baked pie sheil and bake in slow oven 3009, for 
20 minutes. Gernish with whipped cream and bits of apricot. 

Brse LeBe Churchwright 


BRUNBURYS 
i cup raisins, chopped 
1 ege 
1 eup suger 


juice 1 lemon 


Flour the raisins before chopping. Put in eggs without beating. 
Mix all together and flavor with vanilla or rose water. Bake in 
muffin tins which have been lined with rich pie crust. 

Mrse Re Johnson 


PECAN Pis 


3 eggs, beaten slightly 

1 cup dark Karo, added to eggs 
2/3 coup sugar 

pinch salt 

2/3 cup peeans 

1 tsp. vanilla 


Pour into unbaked pie shell and bake 425° for 10 minutes, then reduce 
heat to 325° and bake 35 to 40 minutos longer, or until silver Imife 
blade comes out cleane 

Rachel Rasmussen 


APPLE DUMPLINGS © 


2 cups flour Mix as for pie crust, cut into & squares large 
1/2 tsp. salt enough to enolose apples, 7 or & inch 
2/3 oup shortening squares. 


6~7 Tbsp. ice water 

6 medium cooking applies } 
1/2 cup suger Place each apple on a square and fill 
1 tsp. cinnamon j cavity with sugar and cinnemon mixture, 
1 Tbsp. butter dot with the butter 


1 cup sugar 
2 cups water Boil 2 sr 3 minutes and pour over dumplings placed 
1/4 cup butter abouts 2° apart in boking pan. 


1/2 tsp. cinnamon 


Bake very hot oven 460° for 5 minutes, bake 30 minutes longer at 350°, 
Serve hot with the following sauce: : 


1/2 cup whipping ereem 2 Tbsp. suger 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Whip eream stiff and fold in sugar ani flavoring. Beat ege white 
stiff and fold gently into ereen. 


See tas ec 


Brery breve heart mast treat scoiety as a child, and never allow it te dictate. 
: ~imersone : Ss 


4 


CHOCOLATE, MARSHMALLOW, GRAHAM CRAGKER DESSERT 


Croam 2 cup butter and 1 cup pormlered sugar 
Add three ogg yolks, one at a time 
Add the following syrup: 


eo 1/2 cup suger 

1/2 cup boiling water 
1 0g. chocolate 
2 Thspe butter 
1/2 tep. vanilla 


Melt chocolate in double boiler. Add butter and when mixed pour water 
on slowly, stirring constantly, then add sugar. Bring to boiling point 
and boil five minutes without stirring. Add vanille and a little salt. 
Add 25 marshmallows, each cut in about six pieces. Add 1 cup chopped 
mute. Boat egg thites stiff and add to mixture. Line pan with graham 
crackers (approximately 14) which havo beon put through food choppors 
Pour mixture into pan and cover with half of the graham crackers. Put 
in refrigerator for at least 24 hours. 


Grace Johnson 


APPLE GRisP 7 


4 coups chopped apples 1 tsp. cinnamon 
1/2 tep. salt 2 cup sugar ~ 
8/4 cup flour 1/2 cup buster 


Butter a shallow beking dish (8 x 10) ond put in the epples, chopped : 

or sliced. Sprinkle with colt. Sifs flour once before measuring. 

Mix flour, cinnamon ond sugar together and rub in butter until orunbdly. 

Spread this mixture over the apples. Bake uncovered at 350° about : 
45 minutes. Serve with whipped crean, r | 


Lillian Hauke 
LEON REFRIGERATOR CAKE 
1-3/4 ovo suger 1 cup cake flour 
1/2 cup water tepe creem terter 
7 eggs 1/8 tsp. salt 


1 tsp. lemon oxtract 


Boil sugar and water until it spins a throade Pour slowly over woll 
beaten yolks of the 7 eggs: place egg bow} in pan of cold water, beating 
‘ ell tho time with electric mixer. Fold in sifted flour. Then fold in 
-) ; stiffly beaten egg whites which have been beaten with the cream of tartar 
end selte Add lemon flevoringe Bake in angel food pan 1 hour at 325°, 


Fillings 
2~1/4 cups sugar u qeoSe Tone ring 1 cup cream, whipped 
1/2 lb. butter 1/3 cup lemon juice 
1-1/2 tsp. vanilla 8 eggs 


Cream butter and sugar well, edd the vanilla, lemon rind and lemon juice. : 
Add the 8 egg yolks one at a time and beat woll efter each addition. Fold 
ey in the stiffly beaten egg whites and the whipped cream, Cut eske in straikpt 
; slices. Line large pan with waxed paper. Arrange in layers, cake on bottom, 
a filling on tope More then 1 Isyer - pleco in refrigerator 24 hours. 
“e Eda Hauke Ross 


Te. 3 i da. * ed le a fy ara Te ee j eo ae 


: LEMON PUDDING 

1 cup sugar 1-1/2 Thep. butter 
‘1 cup milk 2 eggs : 
4 Tbspo flour juice of 1 lemon 


pinch selt 


Cream sugar and butter, add beaten yolks. thon flour, then lemon and mix 
be woli together. Add milk, then stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in dish act 
Be in pan of hos water about 45 minutes in moderate oven. Serve with whipned ereer. 
Bree LeBo Churchwright 


CHESS PIES 
1 cup sugar 1 cup currants or 
‘1/4 oup butter, molted seedicss raisins 
1 egg beaten 1 tsp. vanilla 
nuts, if desired 
Mix all together well and beke in miffin tins lined with rich pastry. Fill es 
abouts 2/3 full and bake in moderate oven about 25 mins. Serve with whipped orem. i 
; Ure. LeBo Churchwright ; 
CREAM PUDDING 
& Tbsp. browa sugar 
2 egg yolks, slightly beaten : 
P 8 tap. salt Miz together 
[ i tep. vyenilla 
1 sup Pet malik . 
1/4 cup weter Stir inte above mixture a 
E 2 ogg whites, beaten until stiff, but not dry ; 


3 Thspe sugar, beaten into ege whites 


Fold milk mixture slowly into eg¢ whites. Four imto custard cups, sprinkle top 
with chopped mite. Set in pan of hot water and bake in slow oven 320°45 mings 
L rs. LB. Churchuright 


TAPIOCA PUDDING 


6 Tbsp. pearl tapicoa (this is the largs, buckshot size, tarioca) 
4 egg yolks 

‘ 1 cup suger 

5 1 scant quart milk 

: 2 Thep. flour 


Sook tapioce in small amount of water overnight or less, drain off any excess 
; water in morning. Boil in milk in double boiler until coloriess. Beat yolks, 
@  _ avear, and flour together and add to milk mixture, cocking a few minutes until 
HSS thickened some. Add about 3 Tbsp. cososnut, or more, and place in casserole. 
Make meringue of egg whites and cover, sprinkle a little cocoanut on top and brow 
an ovens "ivan used to plece the pudding in a fenoy dish, of glass, to set, end 
_ then slide the meringue onto the top efter it had been brcewmed in a greasod pie vin). 
Bee: Lillian ne aa if 


- Great men are they whe see that epiritual ie stronger then any materiel forces 
: thet thoughts rule the world. d ret We 
= ; ~iknersen 


i cup sour milk or cream 


WASH DAY PUDDING 


2-1/2 eups bread crumbs 
V2 cup shortening 

3/4 cup sugar 

1 cup raisins 


(If cream ig used use less shortening) 


Cream shortening and sugar, add soda and spices to sour milk, add crumbs 
and milk mixture to sugar mixture and add raisins last. Pack lightly in 
pen and steam about an houre Serves six or eight. 

Sauce 
1 cup brow suger Scat 2 Tosp. butter 
1 cup hot water 2 Tbsp. flour 
1 tspe vanille 


Miz sugar, butter and flour well, add water and cook until slightly thick. 
Add vanilla. This pudding makes a substantial dessert for a hurried meal. 
Evalyn Goldie 
PEANUT BUTTER BREAD PUDDING 


6 slices stale bread spread with 1/2 cup peanut butter 
1/2 ovp raisins 


Cut bread in oubes and place in baking dish in alternate layers with raisins. 
2 eggs, slightly beaten 

2 oupsmill: Combine slightly and pour over bread and cover 
1/2 tsp. salt with 2 Thsp. brow sugare 

3/4 cup brown sugar 


Balke in a 350° oven for about an houre 


Evalyn Goldie 
NABISCO DESSERT 
1 1b. Nebiscos 3/4 cup butter 
1 cup powdered sugar 2 egg yolks 
1 pt. whipping sroam bananas 


Line dish with crushed nabiscos. Mix powdered sugar with butter and egg 

yolks. Cover Nabiscos with this mixture. Slice bananas lengthwise over 

this and cover with crushed Nebiscos, and whipped cream. Let stand over night. 
Frances Gustafson 


VICTORIA PUDDING 


1/2 coup butter 1/2 cup milk 
3/4 cup suger 2 Tbsp. any juice or jolly 
2 eggs Y 1 tspe vanilla 


1 cup flour 1 tsp. soda 
cinnamon and mace ‘ 


Steem 2 hourse 


ee he wR Ke ko 


Whet are you worth teday? ‘Not in money, but in brains, heart, purpose, 
cheracter? Tell yourself the truth about yourself. 
«George He Hepworth 


pt ae 


ROW GROT 


1 pint very thick, slightly sour croem 1/2 cup flour 
1 pint hot milk 1/2 tspo salt 
1/2 cup wetor (to rinse the crean from jer) 

suger and cinzamon 


chub te Ube 5: 


Gook cream and water very gonbly 45 minutes to one hour, stirrin 
occasionally. Add paste of galt and flour with a little cold water, 
stirring thoroughly. Cook until thick and butter fat eones out on 
top. Remove fat and save. Stir in hot milk and whisk briskly with 
flat wire beater. Pudding should be very smooth end creamy. Pour 
into bowl and make depressiong on top to hold butter fat. Serve hot 
in dessert dishes and pass sugar and cinnamon to sprinkle on top. The 
pudding is not a success unless the butter fat comes out on top after 
flour is added. 


Rally Olsen 
REFRIGERATOR DESSERT 
1 lb. Nabisco wafers 1/2 oup sugar 
1 pkg. lemon jeile Juice of 1 or 2 lemons 


i large can Borden's milk 


Put Nebiscos through food chopper. Divide crumbs in hel?,placing hat?. 
in a large flat dish, reserving remainder for top of dessert. Dissolve 
1 pkg. lemon jo#io in 3/4 cup boiling water. Add sugar to this, let cool 
and Whips Combine whipped jello end whipped milk. Pour over erunbs in 
@ieh, Cover with remaining crumbs and put in refrigerator. 

Johanna Nielson 


DELICIOUS DESSERT 


1 pkzo lime Jello 1/4 pound marshmallows 
1 pke. lemon Jello (or any other) 1 oup drained pineapple tidbits 
1 pkg. cream cheese 2 pints whipping oream 


The night before digsolve 1 package jello and let set. Next morning 
dissolve the other pkekago and let jel}. Combine the last four ingredients 
(sream whipped). Have the original jello in a square or oblong pane Covor 
with a leyor of mixed ingredients. Then add the sesond veriety of jollo 

which hes partially set. Chili in refrigerator. Gut in equares or slices 
and gorve@c 


4 Rachel Ragmussen 


CHOCOLATE ROLL 


3/4 sup suger 1 tep. vanille 
6 Tbsp. chocolate 1/2 cup flour 
lL tsp. beking powder § eggs 


Beat egg yolke until thick. Add them to helf of sugar which has been 

mixed with the chocolate. Add vanilla. Beat egg whites stiff and add 

to them the balance of tho sugar, Fold into the yolks. Mix garefully. 

Sift flour with belking powder and fold into batter. Bake 350° for 15 

minutes on cookie sheet. Roll Like jeily roll after spreading withone — 

cup whipping cream, whippedo ; 
_Jordis Tetii 


Seen ae ® 


Her voice was ever soft, gentle, and low = an excellent thing in womens 
*Shekespearo a 2 


i ae 


et 
al f 


SALADS _ 
GRAB SALAD 
i pkg’ lemon jolico, whipped 
i Tbsp. vinegar Let sot until duost congealed 
1/2 tsp. salt 


1-1/2 cup crakmeat 

i Tdspe pimento, diced Stir inte above mixture and mold. 
1/2 cup colery, diced 

1/2 cup mayonnaise 


Serve on lettuce with mayonmiso. 
Wilma Englund 


GRAB COCHTATL SALAD 


1 pkge lemon jello } Bissolve jolio in 1 coup only hot water, — 
1 can tomte hot sauce using hot sauco for the other cup liquid. 


1 can orab {or shrimp 
1/2 cup odiery, diced 
oup onion, diced 
1/2 tspe metard seed) Add to above mixture and mould. 
1/2 tepe celery secd 


Lillian Heuke 
TUNA GELATIN SALAD 


2 Thepe golavin 1 Thsp. vineger 

1/2 cup cold water 1 cup chopped celery 

3/4 eup mayonnaise 1 eup chopped olives 

1/2 tsp. salt 1/2 aup chopped green poppers 
1/8 tspe paprika 2 cup tuma fish flaked 

3 Thsp. shopped pimentosea Dash cayenne pepper 


Soak gelatin in cold water a fou minutes. Dissolve over hot water and 
add mayonnaise, selt, paprilm, vinegar & cayenne. Mix together flaked tuna, 
Selery, olives, green pepper and pimentoes, then add to mayonnaise mixturo. 
Put in moulds which have been digped in cold water and chi11. Serve on 
lettuce and garnish with mayonnaise. 

Grace Sisson 


SURPRISE SALAD 


3 Pkg. Lomon Jello (jei1) } ; 
1/2 pte whipping cream (whip) ) Whip both togeshor 


1 cup chopped celery 1 cup crushed pineapple 
1 small can stuffed olives, sliced 1/2 1d. grated cheese 
1/2 sup ceshew nuts or almonds 


Add above ingredients to whipped mixture and mould. 
Olydia Niemi. 


* 2 3 % 


Now is tho time; oh, friend, no longor wait to scatter loving smiles 
and words of cheer to those around whose lives are now so dear. They 
may not meet you in the coming yeare Now is the times 


iy ep os 5 agmlmers 


FROZEN PINSAPFLE SALAD 


1-1/2 cups crushed pinsaypie . 8 pimentoes, d 
l pkg. sweetened orange gcolatin 1/2 cup shopn ° sats 
1/4 cup diced celery 1 fbape gelavin 

6 marshmallows, diced 1/4 cup lsmon juice 

2= 3 oe pkgs. cream cheese i cup chipping crosm 
fe tsp. salt water ~ 


Brain pineapple, add water to form 2 cups liquid. Heat to boiling point 
add orange gelatin. Stir until dissolved. Soften 1 Tbsp. gelatin in 1/4 
cup cold water and add to first mixture. Stir until dissolved, add lemon 
juice and salt and mix thoroughly. Chill t111 partly set, then add pimen- 
toes, cheese, celery, marshmallows, and waipped cream. Mix and pour inte 
moulds, cover tightly. Serve with fruit saled dressing. 


Wilma Englund 
WHITES SALAD 
1 gte shredded cabbage 1 cup crushed pineapple 
2 pte marshmallows 1 oup blanched elmonds, chopped 
Dreseing: 
4 cup sugar 
1 tsp. flour Boil until thick - add 2 egg whites beaton. 
1 Tospe vinegar When cool add 1 pt. whipping creo. 


2 lemons, juice 
Eleanor Hauke Anderson 


COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD 


Blend cottage cheese, walmts, dates ani marshmallows, thon add mayonnaise. 
Hrge LeBe Churolaright 


COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD 


1 Pkge lemon jolio 
1 cup hot water Hix as usual end cool 
2 mall can crushed pixeapple ond juice 
2 cups cottage cheese (scant) 
1/2 cup Gop milk or ercem, fill cup with mayonnaise, then mix all 
together stirring well. Put into moulds and chill. 
Hree LB. Churchwright 


= GABBAGS PINEAPPLE SALAD 


1 mediwn head cabbage, shrodded 
1 can pineapple, diced 
1/4 1b. warahmallows, quartered 
Milx with salad dressing. 
Mrso LeBo Churshwright 


FRUIT SALAD 


2 cups diced pineapple 1 sup diced psare 
1/2 cup diced marshmallows 1 cup celery 
1/2 tsp. salt if2 eup selad dressing 
1/2 cup waippta cream | 
Mix and ohill cream ard salad dressing. Mix and chill other ingredionis, 
dyain off juices and arrange on lettuce leaves. 

Mrse LeBe Churchwright 


BRERALD SALAD 


1 Pt. Blancheé almonds 1 Pt. swest pickles 
i 1 large can pineapp? 1 cup water 
H 1 Pkg. Knox gelatine 1 cup mild vinegar 
J 2 coups suger 


» 


x! Boil sugar, water, vinegar and pineapple juice together. Remove from stove 
@ and add other ingredients. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise mixed 
with cream and suger, efter 1% hes set in mold. 
Hes. LoeBe Churehwright 


VEGETABLE SALAD 


Dissolve 1 pkge lemon jello in 1-1/2 cups hot water and let cool. 
% Then add 1 oup shredded cabbage, 1 cup celery cut up, 1/2 cup chopped 
P green pepper, 1 cup miracie whip, and mix well. Meld in rather deop pan, 
add pimento if desired. 
Mrso LeBo Churehwright 


SILDESALAT 
(Herring Salad) 
3 salt herring 2 cups cooked veel 
5 potatoes, boiled 1 small onion, grated 
2 beets, boiled or pickled 1 stalk colery 
3 tart apples, peeled 1 cucumber pickle 


Sosk herring over night. Dry and remove skin, bones and waste. Cube 
herring, potatoes, beots and apples. Dice colery and pickle. Just before 
serving combine ell ingredients with salad dressing. 


Seled Dressings 


Yolks of 2 hard cooked eggs 2 rew egg yolks 

1/2 cup salad oil 4 Tbsp. vinegar 

1/2 tsp. dry mstard 1/2 tepo ealt 

1 Tbhap. sugar 1/4 tsp. white pepper 


Garnish with sliced hard cooked eggs and pimento strips. 
"Seendinavian Recipes" 


tee se 2 


"God might have used His sunset gold so sparingly 
; } He might have doled His blossoms out quite grudgingly, 
x } He mighs heave put one weo star in all the sky, 
But sinee He gave so lavishly, 

Why shouldn't I¢* 


CASSEROLE ond LUNGCHECN DISHES 
CLAM LOAF 
2 eggs, beaten well 1/2 Ube pork sausage 
1 pt. cooked ground clams & juice 3/4 cup cracker orumbs 


Mix together woll and bake in buttered belsing dish 30 or 40 minutes 
in moderate ovene Creem sauce with parsley & chopped egg, or serve 


with catsupe 
Ethel Berry. 


TUNA SANDWICH ae 
Iv15 oze com tuma (011 drained from tuna, or. i i sree, 
2 Tbsp. butter (if tuza is not packed in 032) 


3 Thape flour few grains pepper 
1 cup. milk 6 slices bread 
i tsp. sait 1-1/2 eup grated shoese 


Drein o41 from tunae Blend 011 with flour, then stir in milk gradually. 
Cook over mediwn heat, stirring constantly until thickened. Add flaked 
tuna, salt, pepper and blend thoroughly. Toast bread on one sidoe 
Place in broiling pan, pour creemod tuna over untoasted sides. Sprinkle 
with grated cheese and brown under the broiler. 
Olga Henningsen 


QUICK TUNA LUNCHEON DISH 


1 pkge potato chips 
1 can tuna 


in a greased casserole put 1 leyer potato chipa, thea tuna, then 

potets chips. Covor with a white sauce and beke in © moderate oven 

15 to 20 minutes. Hard boiled eggs may be added to cromm saucde 
Olga Honningsen 


ENGLISH MOPF 


2 eges, beaten 1/2 top. meterda 

2 cups milic Smell amount garlic 

1 cup greted cheese (sharp) 6-8 slices stale bread, 
1/2 tepe salt cut in cubes 


Beat eggs, add milk, seasoning end cheese. Put cubed bread in flat 
pen and cover with egg mixture. Beke in moderate oven 1/2 to 3/4 hours 
Johanna Wielsen 


BASY TO EAT SPINACH 


Cook spinach. Make dressing by cubting bacen fine and Erying crisps 
a flour to fryings to thicken like making grow. Ada 1/2 wtor and 
2 vinegar liquid. When thick pour over spinach. Besorate with herd 
boLied eges. Even children like it this way. 
Leona Tolonen 


ae eos 


Reputation 49 what mon and women think of us: character is what God 
and the angels know of uS. 
Thomas Paine 


ROUND STEAK DINNER 


Cut round stesk into cubes. Placa leyers of sliced raw potatoes, onions, 
end steak in pan. Repeat twice, then add 1 cup tomatoes, seasoning and 
i sup sour cream and beke about an houre Roll meat in flour before placing 


in pane Mrs. A. Ewistad 

SALMON LOAF 
1/2 1b. canned salmon or 1 Ibo fresh salmon 
2 Tbspo melted butter 1/2 cup scalded milk t 
2 ege yolks i Thsp. lemon juice (if liked) 
1/2 tsp. salt 1 ep. chopped parsley 


8 tsp. pepper 1/2 cup soft srumbs 
2 egg whites, slightly beaten : 


Remove the bones from salmon, add melted butter, beaten yolks, salt, pepper, 
milk, lemon juiee & parsley to the crumbs. Add mixture to the salmon. Fold 
in the atiffiy beaten whites and steam one hour in well buttered closoly 


Govered mould. 
Signe Gagnet 
t SALMON POTATO CASSEROLES 


Slice thinly 4 mediun potetoes. Place in casserole in layers, altormting © 
with layer of eennod salmon and thinly sliced onion. Season each layer 
with dash of salt and pepper. Cover with medium white sauce; 


2 Thep. butter 
yi 2 Thsp«. flour 

1 oup milk 

sakt and pepper 


Add more milk if necessary to cover. Bake 1-1/2 hours in 350° oven. 

Yeriation: Place on top canned asparagus and grated cheese. Macaroni may 

be usod in place of potatoes. 

Mrs. Eofo Hjorten 
Som cABRAGE : 

i medium siged hoad cabbage 1 tsp. salt 

1/2 cup vinegar i Tbsp. butter or meat fryings 

1 cup crom 
1 Cook cabbege 5 minutes. Add vinegar and selt and shortening and cook 15 
ar _ minutes longer. Remove fron stove and add orcam. 

Jessie iillor 


$222 & 


The best portion of a good man's life « His little, nemeless, unremembered 
acts of kindness and of love. 


Wordsworth 


G 


HOT CRAB SALSD 


3 oups crab (2 cans} 

3 coups colery, diced smaki 
1 cup onion, minced 
Seasoning 


Mix all together, as for salad. 
Serve on boiled ricoe 


CLAM FRITTERS 


@ sups ground clams 
(optional — 1 onion ground 
and 1/2 cup bacon ground) 

2 : 

1-1/2 cup cornmeal 


Add enough milk to make a thick batter. 
and drop by spsonfulls inte hot frying pan 
preferably bacon grease. 


CORN LAP 


1 #2 can yollow corn 

1-1/2 oup soft bread 

4 elices crisp bacon, chopped 
Salt 


a ca a 


1 can ripe olives, minced 
1 sup mayonnsise 
172 cup green pepper, minced 


Gook in slow oven until celery is done. 


Lillian Heuke 


3/4 coup flour 

1 tep. baking powder 
1 tsp. salt 

popper 


Mix all ingredients in large bowl 


with scyoral tablespoons groase, 


Cover pan until cakes are ready to be turnede 


Carol Hygeard 


2 Tbsp. chopped green pepper 
2 eggs, beaten 

2 Thsp. butter 

Pepper 


Mix together corn, bread, bacon, green pepper, eggs, butter, and seasonings. 
Press firmly into a well buttered leaf pan. Bake slowly in a pan of hot 


water in oven 325° for 50 mimutes. 
very hot, well-seasoned white sauce. 


Turn out on hot platter. 


Serve with 


Loom Tolonen . 


CALIFORNIA LUNCHEON DISH 


2 beaton eggs 

1/4 cap salad ofl 

2 cups cooked rice 

2 cups grated American cheeso 
Salt and popper 


Gombine ingrodicnts. 
moderate oven, 325°. 


Pour into greased 8" 


CLAM LOAF 


2 ibs. ground clams 

2 cups cracker erumbs 

1 small onion 

i Tbsp. chopped pimento 
Salt and pepper to taste 


Mix ingredients, mold into loaf, end bake 
moderate ovens 


see 3% S 


1/2 cup shopped parsley 
1 medium onion chopped 

1 clove garlic, minced 

1 cup top milk 


square beking dishe Bake in 


Johanna Nielsen 


1 ib. bulk pork sausage 

1 cup milk or clam liquid 

2 eggs, beaten 

1 Thsp. chopped green pepper 


one hour, or until dons in 


Agnes Fremstod 


The grand essentials of happiness are, SOMETHING TO DO, SOMETHING TO LOVE, 


and SOMBTHING TO HOPS FOR. 


~Chaimers 


i cup sooked macaroni or oreansttes i green popper, cut fine 
1 oup fresh bread crumbs 1 tep. grated onion 

1 cup grated cheese - L tsp. salt 

1/4 oup melted butte: 1/2 pint cream 


bash cayenne pepper 


Add halfeup scalded milk and threo slightly beaten eggs to the above 
tiztures Bake in pen over hot wter 45 mimtes. Top with creamed crab, 
fresh shrimp and mushrooms or diced chicken and hard boiled eggs, or a 
IBixture or seafoods with a sauce made of 
1 cup crean 2 Tbsp. flour mixed with woter 
1 cup top milk 2 Tbep. butter 
Mix all and cook until this is thickened, add seafood and pour over 
first mixture and servee 

Agnes Fremstad 


STURGEON BALLS 


Put fish through meat grinder once. Then pound real hard. Add 1 Tbsp. 
potato flour and pound some meree Drop in 1 ege,. pound again. Keop on 
adding milk until of the right consistency. Work well, Add salt to 
teste, 1 teaspoon mace. Sturgeon balls take a lot of milk and pounding 
with a wooden potato masher. These may be cooked several differont ways: 
Drop carefully by the spoonfull into boiling water and cook until done; 
they may bo fried; or they may be canned either boiled or fried. 

Johanna Wielson 


CHEESE SOUFFLE 


1/4 cup buttor 1/2 lb. pkg» nippy cheese 
1/4 oup flour 4 well-boaten egg yolke 
Ve tsp. salt 4 egg whites 

1 cup mille 


Melt butter in double boiler: add flour & salt, blend. Add milk, 
cook stirring constantly until thiek and smooth. Add grated cheeses 
stir until blended, Add sauce to egg yolks. Carefully fold in egg 
whites beaten stiff but not dry. Bake in ungreased casserole in 
moderately slow oven (3259) 1 hour end 15 mins. Serves Go 

Agnes Fremstad 


SPAGHETTI DINNER 


1-1/2 cups spaghetti or macaroni 

6 cups water Boil together until tender, 
1-1/2 tsp. salt . drain and rinse 

1-10-1/2 oz. can vegetable so 

1 cup pec milk dilused with 1/3 coup water 

1-1/2 cups grated American cheese 

3/4 teaspoon salt 

1/8 teaspoon popper 


Mix together and cook over boiling water until cheese is melted. Fold 

in spaghetti. Put in greased beking dish and arrange on top about 12 

weiners. Bake at 350° until mixture is bubbly hot or about 20 mins. 
Rachel Rasmussen 


ok ee mk tk 


The religion that will not stand up under am emergency will not 
survive eternity. 


ERR DZ ee CONF EC TAR 
CHOCOLATE FUDGE 
2/3 oup canned milk Pinch salt 
2 oups sugar Butter, size of walnut 


Boil the above ingredients to soft ball stage. Remove from heat, add 
& squares unsewoetesed chocolate end vanilla. Stir until thick. Walnuts 
may also be added. : od 

Agnes Fremstad 


ROCKY ROAD 


1 pound light dipping chocolate 
: coco butter (5 ¢ worth) 
2 pound marshmallows 
| Walmute 


¥ Boll water in lower part of boiler, teke from stove and add chocolate. 

bs Keep stirring until melted. Add melted coco butter to melted chocolate. 
Place whole marshmallows in pan which has been oiled with coco butter. 
Put mits botweon marshmallows and pour above mixture over marshmallows 


when cool. 
Johanne Nielsen 
SPICED WALNUTS 


1 cup suger } 
2 tsp. cinnamon Mix togother in sauce pan 
Stir in 1/2 cup Pet milk. Boil, stirring constantly, until a few drops 
Zorm a soft bail when dropped into cold water. Remove from heate Add 
1-1/2 oup walnuts and 1 tsp. vanilla, Stir until mixture can no longer 
be stirred. Turn out on waxed paper and separate the nuts into small 
pieces with fingers. This mst be done quickly. 

Jordis Tetli 


PENUCHE 


2 ouws browm sugar 

1 cup water Stir over quick heat until the sugar 1s dissolved. 
4 tep. salt 

Boil these ingredients without stirring to the firm ball stage 248°, 
Add} 1 Thsp. butter 

Place the saucepan containing the dandy in cold water. When the bottom 
of the saucepan is cool begin to beat the candy. Beat it until it is 
smooth end ercany. 

Add: 1 tsp. vanilie 


& 1/2 cup nutmats 
aay Drop by spoon onto an oiled surface or pour on greased platter and cut 
@ in squarese 


Jennie Kelm 
ae ee aD 


There are two good rules which ovght to be written on every hearts 
Never believe anything bed about anybody unless you positively know 
it is trues never tell oven that, unless you feel that it is absolutely 
necessary, and thet God is listening while you teli it. { 

-Heary Yan Dykeo 


DEESSINGS ond SAUCES 
FRENCH DRESSTUNG 
1 Can Tomato Soup 1/2 Tepe dry mustard 
1 Gup Salad 013 1/2 tep. Black Pepper 
1 Cup Diluted Vinogar i Large Onion Grated 
1/2 Cup Sugar 1/2 tep. Worcestershire Sauce 
2 tepo salt i small piece garlic, chopped 
Gombine ali ingredients in a quart jer and sheke like mad. 
Lillien Henke 
SWEST FRENCH DRESSING 

1 cup sihad of] Juice 1 lemon 
1/2 cup vinegar 2/3 grated onion 
2/3 coup catsup 2 tsp. salt 
1 ou suger 2 tsp. paprika 


Add éry ingredients to satcup, then beat ofl in elowly, last add lemon 
end vinegar. bo not keep in refrigerator. 
Wilma Engiund 
SAUCE FOR HAM 


1/2 oup tart jolly (bleekberry) 
V/2 oup prepared mustard 


Beet until smooth, exeellent on baked hame 
Agnes Frensted 


BARBECUB SAUCE 


1 modi chopped onion i Tosp. Worcestershire sauce 
2 Tosp. butter 1/2 tsp. mustard 

2 Thsp. brown sugar i/2 cup water 

4 Tbsp. lemon juice 1/2 cup chopped edlery 


1 email bottle catsup 


Brown onions in butter, add other ingredients and simmer 30 minutes. 
Serve hot. Good with leg of lemb or hamburgers. 


Emily Olsen 
CHILI SAUCE 

24 large tomatoes (ripe) 3 cups vinegar 
5 groen peppers 3 Thap. sait 
6 lerge onions i large bunch celery 
1 cup suger 2 Tbsp. mustard seed 
Simmer two hours end seale 

Emily Olsen 


xe RRS ST 


There are thousands willing to do great things for one willing to do a small thing. 
=George MacDonald 


: 
| 


six weeks 


- ee Ae, 2” Pee 


BREAD AND BUTTER PICKLES 


8 quarts sliced cucumbers 
$% medium onions, sificed fine Sprinkle with salt and let stand overnight 
4 chopped green peppers 


Drain and adds 

2 quarts vineger 

1/4 coup mustard seed 

2 Tbsp. selery seed 

8 coups sugar 

2 swoet red peppers Ashepred) 
2 tepo tumeris powder 


Do not boil, but heat until thoroughly hot. Sealio 
Rachel Reamasson 


ICICLE PICKLES 


Use medium sized oucwmbers. Wesh and let stand in cold water over night. 
Slice lengthwise, pack in jare. Pour over the following syrup het. 


2 cups suger 
2 cup salt Boil well 
2 guart vinoger 


Add a Littlo mstard seed, celery seed, a garlic clove, a slice onion, 
to each jar. Seal while vinegar is hot. Good in sin weeks. 
Lillie» Hauke 


SWEET PICKLES 


2 gelions small cuonaers fou’ in half) 

2 cups sack seit (not iodized) dissolved in 1 galion boiling water. 

Pour over cucumbers and let stand 7 deys,then drain off. 

Diszolwe 1 Tbsp. alum in 2 gelion boiling water, pour over cucumbets 

and let stand 24 hours, drain off, Povr over cucumbers one gallon fresh 

boiling water, let etand 24 hours, then drainc 

§ cups suger 

5 pints vinegar Bring to doll, pour hot over cucumbers and let 

12 ozo edlery ra stand 24 hours. Drain into pan and add ) cup 
2 cz. mixed epics) sugar, reheat and pour back on cucumbers. 

Do this 3 mornings, adding 1 cup sugar each morning. Put a piece of 

cinnamon bark in each quart jar, pack with euowabers, heat syrup and 
our over, Seel jars. Cen be used within a weeks 

Theae cen be kept for two yoers ami STAY CRISP) 


Jennie Kela 
DILL PICKLES 
1 guert vineger 2 cup salt 
3 quarts water i fbsp. alum 


Dill weed 


Boil all together end pour over eucmbers that are already packed ‘in 


jars. Put in some alli weed and xeety Piskics will be ready in about 
Evalyn Goldie 


ee Sees. s_ 
ae = % 


WATERMELON PICKLES 


Peel watermelon rinds and sprinkle with elum and let stand over nighte 
Wash slum off in tho morning. Boil together 2 quarts Vinegar, 1 quart 
suge:, 1 Tbspe whole cloves, until syrup. Drop rind of melor| into 
syrup letting it boil until tender. Pour all together into 
hoxt Morning, then drain syrup off and boil well, repeating 
mornings, eachtine pouring over pickles. Seal the third mo Ze 
Evalyn Goldie 


GREEN TOMATO RELISH 


; a) 24 greon tomatoes (chopped and drained over night) 
4 green peppers chopped 

2 red peppers chopped 

8 large onions 

3 cups sugar 

4 sups vinegar | 
2 Thsp. salt { 


Cook all together and seal. These ingrodients may all be put through 
the food chopper. . 
Evalyn Goldie 


SACCHARIN SWEET PICKLES 


1 ewp suger 

1 oup rock salt 

1 cup dry nusterd 
3/4 Ofe saccharin 


Mix together and pour over cucumbers that have been washed and packed 
into Jara. Seal tight end let stend about two weeks before usinge 
Small cusymbers are the best. 


Grace Sisson 
PICKLED PRUNES 
7 lbs. prunes 1 heaping Tbsp. whole cloves 
4 ibs. sugar aS Thep. whole allspice 
i pt. vinegar S$ or 4 sticks cinnamon bark 


Prick prunes. Boil vinegar, sugar and spices, and pour over uncooked 

prunes three different mornings. Bring prunes to boil with mixture 

oa the last morning. Lift prunes out, let liquid boil thoroughly, and 

pour over prunese Not necessary to seal. ; 
Madeline Kvistad 


PEAR DELIGHT (PRESERVE ) 


o 4 1b. hard pears lerge can pineapple (no juice) 
ww 4 oyangos (skin and sl) 12 cups sugar ; 


By = Daw epeR 


Let stend overnight. In morning let cook 1~1/2 hours. Then add mediun 
sized jer of maraschino cherries and juico. Cook i hour longere iuts 
may be added just before taking off fire. 
Olga Henningsen 
Re ek eS 


ae Ho one knows whet he can de till he trios. 
{ “Publius Syrus 


PLUM CONSERVE 


2 Gal. stoned plums 
} 1 pound dates 
5 oranges, {peeled and cut fino) 
= 1/2 pound nuts 
! f § pounds suger 


Boil all together except the muts, which are added just before putting 
in jers. Boil until slightly thiekoned. 
! Mrao Ae Kristad 


GREEN TOMATO RELISH 


1/2 peck green tomatoos 
6 green peppers Cut fine and let stand 20 minutes in 


6 red peppers 1 quart vinegar 
6 lerge onions 


: } 4 oupe corn syrup 
a 2 whole cloves 
4 2 sticks cinnamon bark 
2 tsp. each salt, whole mustard sod, 
and celery seed 


Gook together until thick ond seal. 3 
Eleanor Rasmussen 


PICKLED SALT SALMON | 
“4 ott Soak a 5 or 4 lb. plese of salt salmon in fresh water 24 hours or longer, 

ae depending on how hoavy the fish wee salted, change water often. Then 

romove the ekin end cut fish in 1-1/2 inch cubes. Place e layer of fish 

and a slice or two of onion, ropreating until a 2 qte jar is full. Heat 

1/2 Sup auger, 2 cups vinegar, 1 cup miter, 3 bay leaves (broken into email 

pieces), 1 level Thap. whole cloves, 1 level tsps celery seed, 1 level tep. 

mustard seed. Let stand until cold end pour over fish and cover, This need 
not be sealed. Lot stand 10 daya, thon ready to oat. Keeps a long while in 


vm i a cool place or refrigerator. 
Jeomie Kelm 
PICKLED HERRING 
iu Remove skin, cut herring in half, remove tones. Cut in small pieces. 


In @ wide mouth jar put a layer of herring, layer of sliced onions until 
all fish is used. Sprinkle pickli Spice over few of the layers, avoiding 
too many red peppere. Mix about 1/3 eup weter and 2/3 cup vinegar and pour 
over Inyors, enough to cover, and let stand 2 or 4 days before using. Four 
herring along with sliced onions will f4i1 a quart jare 

Lenore Hauke 


“he ew 


He thet cannot think, is a fools 

He that will not, is a bigots; 

He that dare not, is a slave. 

~ Inscription on the well of 
Andrew Carnegie’s Library 


ok mw ok mm 


One teaspoon vineger added to bolled meat while cooking mkes meat tender. 


see ae & 


In filling hot jars with hot food always plece jar on a cloth that is in 
@ shallow van that has hot wter in it. You will never bresk a jar fron 
change of temperature. 


Se ER ER 


fo prevent a hot jar from breaking after filling with hot food, place it 
On several thicknesses of newspaper and cover with a dish towel so that 
mo sold draft hits jaz. 

ze ht hh Be 


To keep bolled icing from sugaring, add a pinch of salt to sugar before 
mixing other ingredients. 


eh ee he & 
To keep bottom ple crust from becoming sogey, coat with the thite of an Ogg. 
Reeezas 


fo remove iron rust, uso lemon juice and cream of tartar. Rubon both 
sides and put in sune 


BS ee t & 


te fo remove iodine stains from white Cloth, soak overnight in cold water 
end wash out in warn sdap suds. 


ae eee 
if a drawer or door sticks, rub the sticking parts with soap. 


Le aekee ze & 


To remove chewing gum from clothing, rub with a piece of ice and it 
will sorepe easily. 


eee oust 


To keep your hosiery from blowing around on the clothesline, heng by the 
toss,then clip the top ends together with snap clothespins. 


tee eee 


If you have no sour milk, use sweet milk adding 1 Tbsp. vineger to each Cups 


ess e224 


When there is no cooking chocolate use sccea, using 1/3 cup socos, for each 
1 sz. square unsvestenod Sooking shocolate called for in recipe. Also add 
ife Tbsp. shortening for every 1/3 cup cocoa used. 


eek se ge 


| Probebly he who never made a mistake never mde anything! 


If you want to make good pis crust use water as if 1% cast $1000 a drop. 
ey i 
a ee ae 


To make good biscuits make your dough as wet as you can handle it and 
knead lightly about one minute. 


we Rk mm 


To remove scorch on non-washable materials, if stained material is white 
lay a cloth dampened with hydrogen peroxide on the stein. Then place a 

dry cloth on top and press with a werm irons roplace top cloth as 1% 
becomes dame If fabric is fast oolor, rub stain with salt and lemon juice. 


mo mk me ok & 


To remove fingernel) polish from washable materials, sponge white or colore 
fast fabrics (except rayon) with acetone or nail=polish remover. Do not 
uso acetone on rayone Equally effective, and safe on any fabric, is carbon 


tetrachloride and banana oil applied alternately. 


i ee 


To remove mid from non-washable materlals, brush out dry md, If material 
docs not water-spot, spongo with cold water. Sponge spot with denatured 
aleohol. (Dilute with 2 parts water for use on acetate rayon). 


Shh we 


To remove perspiration from non-washable materials, if material doos not Si 
water-spot, sponge with water and white vinegar. fo remove perspiration ee oe 
odor sponge with duluted white vinogar and work powdered pepsin into .\@A pe : 
stain. Lot stend 1 to 2 hours, keeping spot moist. Then brush off beeied 
powder and sponge with water. 0 ar 

ee mR he mR 


To remove grass and flower stain from non-washable materials, sponpe grasa 
stein with benzene or denatured alcohol (duiuted with 2 parts water if 
used on acetate rayon). adh oe 


we oe eee 


fo remove ink from non-washable materials, while ink spot ia fresh, apply 
absorbent such as French chalk, corn moal, or ¢aloum powders Brush off 
and apply new powder until no more ink is sbsorbode If spot romaine mako 
& paste of absorbent and water, and apply to spot. When dry, brush out. 


ae RAH 


Po remove ink from washable materials, rinse in cold water. Use a house~ 
hold bleach or comnoreial ink remover. fm spot remains, spply 
lemon juice or white vinegar. Soak in h $, launder. ; 


ee RD ee 


A emell sprinkle of sinnamon in your carrots Phile cooking wili give then 
a very good and different taste - try it} ) 


BRR a OR % 


Everything comes to him who hustles while he wits. - Thomas A. Edison 


