‘Take 
a Can of Salmon 











Salmon has been nourishing the human race and delighting the human 
palate since prehistoric times. Today, thanks to modern canning meth- 
ods, it is becoming known more widely than ever as a cosmopolitan food 
fish. Its delicious flavor and the convenience of the easy-to-store, easy-to- 
use can are two good reasons for cooking and serving salmon frequently. 
But there are even better reasons. The protein in salmon is a complete 
protein, in the same food group as meat and poultry, cheese and eggs. 
When you serve salmon, you’re serving the kind of food that your 
family needs every day. 


You'll find that most of the recipes in this booklet suggest using the 
whole can of salmon, including the liquid, bones, and skin. That’s 
because these are good sources of iodine and phosphorus, Vitamin A, 
Vitamin D, and the B group vitamins. 


From every nutritional standpoint—high protein value, strong vitamin 
and mineral content, easy digestibility—salmon is a good food. It is 
also an economical food...and so easy to serve! 


If overweight is a problem in your family, you'll be glad to know that 
equal portions of salmon and lamb chops contain about the same amount 
of protein but, four ounces of salmon contain only 150 calories while 
four ounces of lamb chops contain 450 calories. 


While canned salmon is the basic ingredient of many glamorous dishes, 
it is delicious if eaten just as it comes from the can, with perhaps a 
sprinkling of salt and pepper, some minced onion and mayonnaise. 
Salmon sandwiches made this way when you were a child were always 
a treat, and they’re still favorites for school lunch boxes. And haven’t 
you made use of the cool look that salmon gives to summer salads? By 
the way, recipes for the salad opposite, and for the Salmon Buffet on 
our cover, are on page 16. 

Each recipe in this booklet has been prepared imaginatively to open 
your eyes to the versatility of salmon and the excitement it brings to 
dinner menus, party refreshments, and luncheon dishes. Try one today! 





SALMON APPETIZERS AND DIPS 


(RECIPES ON PAGE 16) 


The canned salmon that comes to your table was 
caught in the waters of Alaska, Puget Sound or the 
Columbia River of the Pacific Northwest. It is a 
popular food all over the United States, partly 
because it is so easily adaptable to regional tastes 
and fits in so well with every local culinary tradition. 
In this booklet we have suggested a number of reci- 
pes of regional interest—yet all of them will fit in 
with your own meal planning wherever you live. 
First, look at these dishes . . . smart for a luncheon 
or cocktail party in New York—or anywhere! 


New York 
loves 


party food 





like this! 





SALMON MOUSSE 


ASPIC 
1 tablespoon unflavored 2 tablespoons cold 1 chicken bouillon cube 
gelatine water 1 cup boiling water 


Soften gelatine in cold water for 5 minutes. Dissolve bouillon cube in boiling 
water. Add hot bouillon to gelatine and stir until dissolved. Pour into a 
14%-quart mold; chill until firm. 


MOUSSE 

3 cans (7% ounces each) 1 tablespoon lemon juice 2 tablespoons unflavored 
salmon 1 tablespoon grated gelatine 

Y2 cup mayonnaise or onion Y2 cup salmon liquid and water 
salad dressing 1 teaspoon horse-radish 1 cup whipping cream 

2 tablespoons chopped Yq teaspoon salt Salad greens 
parsley Dash pepper 1 hard-cooked egg 


Drain salmon, reserving liquid. Add mayonnaise, parsley, lemon juice, onion, 
horse-radish, salt, and pepper. Mix well. Soften gelatine in salmon liquid for 
5 minutes. Stir over hot water until dissolved. Add to salmon mixture and 
blend thoroughly; an electric mixer or blender may be used. Whip cream; 
fold into salmon mixture. Place over congealed aspic; chill until firm. Unmold 
on salad plate. Garnish with salad greens and hard-cooked egg. Serves 6. 


O. 5 
~~ yvyyzy Il! 
>>> < * Ee 
ee a 





~ 





New Orleans 


flavor in your 


aap y Cal own kitchen 
SALMON CHOW DER 


1 pound can salmon 1 pound can tomatoes 

1 chicken bouillon cube 1 can (8 ounces) whole-kernel 
1 cup boiling water corn 

¥, cup chopped onion 1 cup sliced okra (optional) 
Y2 cup chopped green pepper Y2 teaspoon salt 

1 clove garlic, finely chopped Yq teaspoon thyme 

Y4 cup butter or other fat, melted Dash pepper 

¥3 cup salmon liquid 1 whole bay leaf 


Drain salmon, reserving liquid. Break salmon into large pieces. Dissolve 
bouillon cube in boiling water. Cook onion, green pepper, and _ garlic 
in butter until tender. Combine all ingredients and cook for 15 minutes or 
until vegetables are tender. Remove bay leaf. Serves 6. 


4 


SALMON CREPES BAYOU 


1 pound can salmon 12 cups salmon liquid and milk 

1 teaspoon chopped onion 2 egg yolks, beaten 

3 tablespoons butter or other fat, melted 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 
Yq cup flour 2 tablespoons sherry 

Yq teaspoon salt 12 crepes 

Dash white pepper 2 lemon slices, cut into sixths 

Dash nutmeg Parsley 


Drain salmon, reserving liquid. Flake salmon. Cook onion in butter until 
tender. Blend in flour and seasonings. Add salmon liquid gradually and cook 
until thick, stirring constantly. Stir a little of the hot sauce into egg yolk; 
add to remaining sauce, stirring constantly. Add cheese and sherry and stir 
until blended. Mix % cup of the sauce with the salmon. Blend well. Reserve 
remaining sauce to serve with crepes. Spread about 2 tablespoons of salmon 
mixture on each crepe. Roll like a jelly roll. Place crepes on a cooky sheet, 
15 x 12 inches. Heat in a moderate oven, 350°F., for 10 to 15 minutes. 
Heat the sauce. 

Arrange the crepes in a circle in a chafing dish. Garnish each crepe 
with lemon and parsley. Place sauce in the center of the crepes. Serves 6. 


CREPES ¥4 cup sifted flour Yq teaspoon salt 2 eggs, beaten 1 cup milk 


Sift dry ingredients together. Combine egg and milk. Add gradually to flour 
and salt; stir only until batter is smooth. Drop 2 tablespoons of batter onto 
a hot greased griddle or frying pan. Fry about 2 minutes or until crepe is 
browned on the underside, turn, and fry until the bottom is browned. 
Makes 12 crepes. 








SALMON CURRY 


1 pound can salmon Y2 teaspoon salt 
Y4 cup chopped onion Y4 teaspoon ginger 
3 tablespoons butter or other fat, melted Dash pepper 
3 tablespoons flour 2 cups salmon liquid and milk 
12 teaspoons curry powder 3 cups cooked rice 


Drain salmon, reserving liquid. Break salmon into large pieces. Cook onion 
in butter until tender. Blend in flour and seasonings. Add salmon liquid 
gradually and cook until thick, stirring constantly. Add salmon; heat. Serve 
over rice with any of the following curry condiments. Serves 6. 


Curry condiments: chopped hard-cooked egg whites; shredded toasted 
coconut; chopped nuts; chopped green pepper; chopped tomatoes; fried 
noodles; chopped onions; crystallized ginger; sieved hard-cooked egg yolks. 








SALMON RICH WITH KEBABS 


1 pound can salmon 1 cup uncooked rice 
Y2 cup chopped onion 18 mushrooms 

2 tablespoons butter or margarine, melted 3 green peppers 
24 cup water 3 tomatoes 

1 can (1012 ounces) condensed consommé ¥2 cup butter or margarine, melted 


Drain salmon. Break salmon into large pieces. Cook onion in butter until 
tender. Add water and consommé; bring to a boil. Place rice, salmon, and 
consommé mixture in a well-greased, 2-quart casserole. Stir. Bake, covered, 
in a moderate oven, 350°F., for 35 minutes or until rice is tender. While rice 
is baking, wash mushrooms, green peppers, and tomatoes. Cut tomatoes 
and green peppers into sixths. Remove stems from mushrooms. Alternate 
tomatoes, mushrooms, and green peppers on 6 skewers, 7 inches each. Place 
on a greased broiler pan. Brush kebabs with butter. Broil about 3 inches from 
source of heat for 3 minutes. Turn carefully; brush other side with butter 
and broil 3 minutes longer. Serve salmon-rice mixture on a platter with 
kebabs over top. Serves 6. 





SALMON BROCCOLI PIE 


1 pound can salmon 2 cups salmon liquid and milk 

Y4 cup butter or margarine 1 can (4 ounces) chopped mushrooms, drained 
Y4 cup flour 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Y2 teaspoon thyme 1¥%2 cups cooked, drained, chopped broccoli 
Y4 teaspoon pepper 1 cup pastry mix 


Drain salmon, reserving liquid. Break salmon into large pieces. Melt butter; 
blend in flour and seasonings. Add salmon liquid gradually and cook until 
thick and smooth, stirring constantly. Add mushrooms, parsley, and salmon. 
Spread broccoli in a 9-inch pie pan. Pour salmon mixture over broccoli. 
Prepare pastry mix as directed. Roll dough to form a 10-inch circle. Place 
dough over salmon mixture. Double edge of pastry over and pinch with 
fingers to make an upright rim. Cut top to allow steam to escape. Bake in 
a hot oven, 425°F., for 20 to 25 minutes or until brown. Serves 6. 


8 





SALMON CASSOULET 


1 pound can salmon ¥3 cup flour 

1 cup uncooked elbow macaroni 2 teaspoons powdered mustard 

1 tablespoon chopped green pepper Y4 teaspoon pepper 

1 small clove garlic, finely 2 cups salmon liquid and milk 
chopped 1 cup grated cheese 

Y3 cup butter or other fat, melted 1 cup cooked lima beans 


Drain salmon, reserving liquid. Flake salmon. Cook macaroni as directed 
on the package. Drain. Cook green pepper and garlic in butter until tender. 
Blend in flour and seasonings. Add salmon liquid gradually and cook until 
thick, stirring constantly. Add cheese and continue cooking until cheese 
melts, stirring constantly. Arrange half of the macaroni, lima beans, salmon, 
and sauce in layers in a well-greased, 2-quart casserole. Repeat layers. Bake 
in a moderate oven, 350°F., for 25 to 30 minutes. Serves 6. 


co 


SALMON FLORENTINE 


1 pound can salmon 3 tablespoons flour 

1 cup cooked, drained spinach Y4 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or margarine 1% cups salmon liquid and milk 
Yq teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons sherry 

Dash nutmeg Y4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 
2 tablespoons chopped onion (optional) 

1 clove garlic, finely chopped 3 hard-cooked eggs, 

2 tablespoons butter or margarine, sliced 

melted Watercress 


Drain salmon, reserving liquid. Mash salmon. Chop spinach. Season with 
butter, pepper, and nutmeg. Spread seasoned spinach in a well-greased, 
round baking dish, 8 x 2 inches. Cook onion and garlic in butter until tender. 
Blend in flour and salt. Add salmon liquid gradually and cook until thick, 
stirring constantly. Add sherry and salmon. Blend thoroughly. An electric 
mixer or blender may be used. Place over spinach. Sprinkle with cheese. 


Bake in a moderate oven, 350°F., for 20 to 25 minutes. Garnish with egg 
slices and watercress. Serves 6. 











SALMON BURGERS 


1 pound can salmon Y4 cup chopped parsley 
Y2 cup chopped onion 1 teaspoon powdered 
Yq cup butter or other mustard 

fat, melted Y2 teaspoon salt 


¥3 cup salmon liquid 
¥3 cup dry bread crumbs 
2 eggs, beaten 


Y2 cup dry bread crumbs 
6 round buttered buns 
Lemon wedges 


Drain salmon, reserving liquid. Flake salmon. 
Cook onion in butter until tender. Add salmon 
liquid, crumbs, egg, parsley, mustard, salt, 
and salmon. Mix well. Shape into 6 cakes and 
roll in crumbs. Place cakes in a heavy frying 
pan which contains about ¥ inch of fat, hot 
but not smoking. Fry at moderate heat. When 
cakes are brown on one side, turn carefully 
and brown the other side. Cooking time 
approximately 5 to 8 minutes. Drain on 
absorbent paper. Place cakes in buns. Serve 
with lemon wedges. Serves 6. 


ial 





SALMON CABBAGE VINAIGRETTE 


1 pound can salmon 

1 quart shredded cabbage 

Y4 cup chopped onion 

Yq cup chopped parsley 

2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 
Vinaigrette dressing 

18 large cabbage leaves 


Drain and flake salmon. Com- 
parsley, 
eggs, and salmon. Add _ vinai- 


bine cabbage, onion, 


VINAIGRETTE DRESSING 

1 teaspoon salt, 

Dash cayenne pepper 

V4 teaspoon paprika 

3 tablespoons vinegar 

Y2 cup olive or salad oil 

1 tablespoon chopped pimiento 

1 tablespoon chopped sweet pickle 
1 tablespoon chopped green pepper 


C i S 
ombine salt, cayenne pepper, 


grette dressing and mix _ thor- and paprika. Add vinegar and oil slowly, 
beating thoroughly. Add pimiento, sweet 


pickle, and green pepper. Serves 6. 


oughly. Serve in the center of 
a cabbage rosette. Serves 6. 


12, 


SALRNON LOU LS 


1 pound can salmon 

1 head lettuce 

2 tomatoes, cut in sixths 

Louis dressing 

2 hard-cooked egg yolks, 
sieved 


Drain and flake salmon. Shred 
lettuce and place in a shallow 
salad bowl. Arrange salmon over 
the lettuce. Around the edge 
place the tomatoes. Serve with 
Louis dressing and hard-cooked 
egg yolk. Serves 6. 





2% 


o 
# 


LOUIS DRESSING 
Y2 cup mayonnaise or salad dressing 
2 tablespoons whipping cream 

2 tablespoons chili sauce 

2 tablespoons chopped green pepper 
2 tablespoons chopped green onions 
2 hard-cooked egg whites, chopped 

1 tablespoon chopped olives 
Y2 teaspoon lemon juice 

Dash salt 

Dash pepper 


Combine all ingredients and chill. 
Serves 6. 


13 





SALMON SOUFFLE 


1 can (73%4 ounces) salmon Dash cayenne pepper 

Y4 cup butter or margarine 1 cup milk 

Yq cup flour 6 egg yolks, beaten 

Y2 teaspoon powdered mustard 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
Y4 teaspoon salt 6 egg whites 


Drain and flake salmon. Melt butter; blend in flour and seasonings. Add milk 
gradually and cook until thick and smooth, stirring constantly. Stir a little 
of the hot sauce into egg yolk; add to remaining sauce, stirring constantly. 
Add parsley and salmon. Beat egg whites until stiff. Fold salmon mixture into 
egg white. Pour into a well-greased, 2-quart casserole. Bake in a moderate 
oven, 350°F., for 45 minutes or until soufflé is firm in the center. Serves 6. 


14 





SALMON SOUTHERN CORNBREAD 





1 can (7% ounces) salmon Y2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sifted flour 1 egg, beaten 

1 cup cornmeal 1 cup salmon liquid and milk 
4 teaspoons baking powder Y4 cup butter or other fat, 
Y cup sugar melted 


Drain salmon, reserving liquid. Flake salmon. Sift together flour, 
cornmeal, baking powder, sugar, and salt. Combine egg, salmon 
liquid, and butter. Add to dry ingredients and mix just enough to 
moisten. Stir in salmon. Place in a well-greased baking dish, 


8 x 8x 2 inches. Bake in a hot oven, 425°F., for 25 to 30 minutes. 
Serves 6. 


15 


SALMON BUFFET 


(FRONT COVER) 


3 cans (734 ounces each) salmon 

1 head endive 

3 lemon slices 

Capers 

3 hard-cooked eggs, quartered, and 
deviled 

1 cucumber, sliced crosswise 

6 cauliflower flowerettes 

6 ripe olives 

1 carrot, cut into strips 


Drain salmon, being careful not to 
break cylindrical shape. Separate and 
wash endive. Arrange on a serving plat- 
ter. Place the 3 salmon cylinders in a 
row in the center of the platter. Garnish 
salmon with lemon slices and capers. 
Arrange remaining ingredients around 
salmon. Serves 6. 


SALMON SALAD 


(INSIDE FRONT COVER) 


1 pound can salmon 
1 head leaf lettuce 
1 bunch watercress 
1 hard-cooked egg 
Salad oil 

Vinegar 


Drain salmon. Break salmon into large 
pieces. Separate lettuce and watercress. 
Wash. Line salad bowl with lettuce. 
Place *4 of the salmon in the bowl. 
Place watercress on top of salmon. 
Sprinkle with remaining salmon. Cut 
hard-cooked egg almost through length- 
wise into sixths. Place in center of 
watercress and spread open. Serve with 
salad oil and vinegar. Serves 6. 


APPETIZERS AND DIPS 


SALMON SOUR CREAM DIP 


1 pound can salmon 

¥Y2 teaspoon salt 

3 drops tabasco 

1 teaspoon grated onion 

1 cup sour cream 

1 tablespoon drained red caviar 
Assorted crackers 


Drain and mash salmon. Blend in salt, 
tabasco, and onion. Fold in sour cream. 
Chill. Garnish with caviar. Serve with 
crackers. Makes about 1 pint of dip. 


16 


SALMON APPETIZER 


1 can (734 ounces) salmon 
1 head endive 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 
Dash pepper 

Onion rings 

Capers 


Drain salmon, being careful not to 
break cylindrical shape. Separate and 
wash endive. Arrange in a serving dish. 
Place the salmon cylinder in the center 
of the dish. Moisten with lemon juice 
and sprinkle with pepper. Garnish 
with onion rings and capers. Serves 6. 


SALMON AVOCADO SPREAD 


1 can (7% ounces) salmon 

1 avocado 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon olive or salad oil 

1 clove garlic, finely chopped 
112 teaspoons grated onion 

Y2 teaspoon salt 

4 drops tabasco 
Crackers 


Drain and flake salmon. Peel avocado 
and remove seed. Grate avocado using 
a medium grater. Combine all ingredi- 
ents. Toss lightly. Serve with crackers. 
Makes about 1 pint of spread. 


SALMON CURRIED EGGS 


1 pound can salmon 

24 cup mayonnaise or salad dressing 
1 tablespoon chili sauce 
1 teaspoon chopped pimiento 

1 teaspoon chopped green pepper 
1 teaspoon grated onion 

Yq teaspoon curry powder 

1¥2 dozen hard-cooked eggs 

Parsley 


Drain and mash salmon. Add mayon- 
naise, chili sauce, pimiento, green pep- 
per, onion, and curry powder. Blend. 
Chill. Cut eggs in half lengthwise and 
remove yolks. Place salmon mixture in 
egg whites. Garnish with parsley. 
Makes 36 canapes. Use egg yolks in 
other appetizers. 


SALMON TART 


BACK COVER) 


1 pound can salmon 

1 cup pastry mix 

¥Y2 cup chopped onion 

2 tablespoons butter or margarine, 
melted 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 

4 eggs, beaten 

1¥2 cups salmon liquid and coffee 

cream 

Y2 teaspoon salt 


Drain salmon, reserving liquid. Flake 
salmon. Prepare pastry mix as directed. 
Roll and line a 9-inch pie pan. Spread 
salmon in pie shell. Cook onion in but- 
ter until tender. Sprinkle parsley and 
onion over salmon. Combine eggs, 
salmon liquid, and salt. Pour over 
salmon. Bake in a moderate oven, 
350°F., for 35 to 45 minutes or until 
pie is firm in the center. Serves 6. 


SALMON TETRAZZINI 


(BACK COVER) 


1 pound can salmon 

2 tablespoons butter or margarine 
2 tablespoons flour 

Y2 teaspoon salt 

Dash pepper 

Dash nutmeg 

2 cups salmon liquid and milk 

1 tablespoon sherry 

2 cups cooked spaghetti 

1 can (4 ounces) sliced mushrooms, 

drained 

2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 
2 tablespoons dry bread crumbs 
Watercress 


Drain salmon, reserving liquid. Break 
salmon into large pieces. Melt butter; 
blend in flour and seasonings. Add 
salmon liquid gradually and cook until 


thick and smooth, stirring constantly. 
Add sherry. Mix half of the sauce with 
the spaghetti and mushrooms. Place in 
a well-greased, 2-quart casserole. Mix 
remaining sauce with salmon. Place in 
center of spaghetti. Combine cheese and 
crumbs; sprinkle over top of salmon 
mixture. Bake in a moderate oven, 
350°F., for 25 to 30 minutes. Garnish 
with watercress. Serves 6. 


SALMON PASTA 


(BACK COVER) 


1 can (7% ounces) salmon 
1 pound ricotta cheese 
12 large pasta shells 
3 quarts boiling water 
1 tablespoon salt 
3 tablespoons butter or margarine 
3 tablespoons flour 
Y2 teaspoon salt 
Dash pepper 
Dash nutmeg 
1 cup milk 
1 cup cooked, drained spinach 
Y2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 
Parsley 


Drain and flake salmon. Add cheese 
and mix well. Cook pasta shells in boil- 
ing salted water for 45 minutes or until 
tender. Drain. Rinse with water to 
remove excess starch. Melt butter; 
blend in flour and seasonings. Add milk 
gradually and cook until thick and 
smooth, stirring constantly. Chop spin- 
ach. Add spinach and blend thoroughly. 
An electric mixer or blender may be 
used. Pour sauce into a well-greased 
baking dish, 8 x 8 x 2 inches. Fill pasta 
shells with salmon mixture and arrange 
over spinach. Sprinkle with cheese. 
Bake in a moderate oven, 350°F., for 
30 minutes. Garnish with parsley. 
Serves 6. 





Two 14-minute, sound, color, 16 mm. motion pictures, “Salmon—Catch to Can” and 
“Take a Can of Salmon,” may be borrowed, free of charge, by writing to the Bureau of 
Commercial Fisheries, U. S. Department of the Interior, Washington 25, D.C. 





CircuLar No. 60 
U.S. Department of the Interior—Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Commercial Fisheries 
This publication made possible through private contribution from the Canned Salmon Institute, 
Seattle, Washington, U.S.A. Photographs by Seranne & Gaden, New York City. 


For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D.C. Price 25 cents 


Ld 


s 


SALMON TETRAZZINI 





SALMON TART 


SF PO pa a 


EDS hy RS OA PAY) Pe Pa MEL 


