TENTH MILLION—WITH SUPPLEMENT. 


(LEVELAND'S 


Suet RECEIPTS 


PURITY 
STRENGTH 
PERFECTION 


Published by 


WL DGHEW LAGE =e 


Lf) Ties it AR ) ny a 
> A AG fr its 


DEAR MADAM: 


We have spent much time and 
spared no expense to make this 
a reliable, economical and com- 
plete receipt book for every-day 
use in the home, 

To insure the best results 
directions must be followed, 
using the baking powder speci- 
fied in the receipts. 

We take pleasure in presente ° 
ing you with this copy, and ask 
as a favor that if you are not 
now auser of Cleveland’s baking 
powder you will give it a careful 


trial. 
Cleveland Baking Powder Co. 


CLEVELAND BAKING POWDER Co. 


, 


(~\ 


, 
/ LA 
y 
/ 


NEW YORK, U. S. A. 


SUGCESSOR TO/CKEVELAND BROTHERS, 


a 


‘Scientific Authorities i 


Recommend: 


Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder. 


poviite 


Government Chemists. . 
Hy A; MOTT, Phe D: ae 
E. G. LOVE, Ph. D. 
A, F, UNDERWOOD. 


State Officials. 
FRANK L. BARTLETT, State Assayer of Maine. 
JAMES F. BABCOCK, State Assayer of Massachusetts. 
Dr. B. F. DAVENPORT, State Analyst of Massachusetts. 
Prof. A. H. SABIN, State Chemist of Vermont. 
Prof. S. F, PECKHAM, State Assayer of Rhode Island. 


WM. M. HABIRSHAW, F. C. S., Chemist of .New York 
State Agricultural Society. 
Gen. S. H. HURST, Late Ohio Food Commissioner, 


Professors of Chemistry, 
S. W. JOHNSON, Ph. D., Prof. of Chemistry, Yale College. 


HENRY MORTON, Ph. D., Pres. Stevens Institute of 
Technology, Hoboken, N. J. ’ 


A. M. COMEY, Ph. D., Prof. of Chemistry, Tufts College. 


Po Te AUSTEN, Phe Ds F.2€. S-, Prof, of) -General (aud 
Applied Chemistry, Rutgers College. 


F, A. WILBER, M. S., Adj. Prof. Analytical Chemistry, 
Rutgers. , 


R. A. WITTHAUS, A. M., M. D., University of Buffalo, N.Y. 
F. A. GENTH, Ph. D., Prof. of Chemistry, University of Pa, 


EDGAR FL, SMITH, Ph» D:, F.\G. S¥) Prof. of Chemistry; 
Wittenberg College, Springfield, Ohio. 


W. O. SEMANS, Prof. Chemistry, OhioWesleyan University. 


E. Il. BARTLEY, B. S., M. D., Lecturer on Physiological 
and Practical Chemistry, Long Island College Hospital. 


The Scientific American, after careful examination of 
official reports on baking powders, says: 
“The showing Cleveland’s makes, compared with 


all the principal brands, is such as to put it em- 
phatically at the head of the list.” 


Household Authorities 


Use and Recommend 


Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder. 


MARION HARLAND, Author of ‘‘Common Sense in the 
Household ”: 
_ ‘Finding Cleveland’s Baking Powder the best in quality, the most economical 
in use, and always sure to give uniform results, I did what every intelligent 
housekeeper who keeps pace with the progress in domestic science would do, 
adopted Cleveland’s Baking Powder and have used it ever since.” 


MRS. EMMA P. EWING, Principal Chautauqua Cooking 
School: 


“T use Cleveland’s Baking Powder in my kitchen and class work.” 


KATE E. WHITAKER, Superintendent of Cookeryin Public 
Schools, San Francisco: 


_ “As I find Cleveland’s Baking Powder to be pure and eminently successful in 
its results, I use it exclusively in all my classes,” 


FANNIE M. FARMER, Principal Boston Cooking School: 


“The results obtained by the use of Cleveland’s Baking Powder have always 
been satisfactory.” 


CORNELIA CAMPBELL BEDFORD, Lecturer on Cookery: 

“TI prefer Cleveland’s Baking Powder to others because it is pure and whole- 

some, it takes less for the same baking, it never fails, and bread and cake keep 
their freshness and flavor.” 


MRS. S. T. RORER, Principal Philadelphia Cooking School: 


“Tam convinced Cleveland’s is the purest baking powder made, and I have 
adopted it exclusivelyi my cooking schools and for daily household use.” 


MRS. LINCOLN, Author of the Boston Cook Book: 


“T have used Cleveland’s Baking Powder exclusively for several years, be- 
cause I have found it what it claims to be, pure and wholesome. ~ The results 
have been uniformly satisfactory.” 


MRS. CARRIE M. DEARBORN, Late Principal of the Bos- 
ton Cooking School: 
“I prefer to use Cleveland’s Baking Powder because I consider it perfectly 
wholesome and it has always given uniform results,” 


THE EDITOR of the Pattern Cook Book: 

‘*Cleveland’s Baking Powder makes a fine grained, spongy cake, much lighter 
with the same materials, than that in which other powder has been used. The 
writer has tested this point with a considerable interest and always feels sure of her 
cake when Cleveland’s powder is at hand.” 


MRS. GILLETTE, Author “ White House Cook Book’’: 
“By practical tests in the kitchen, Cleveland’s Baking Powder is the most 
economical, less being required for the same baking, Cleveland’s Superior Bak- 
ing Powder surpasses all others.” 


ELIZA R. PARKER, Author “ Economical Housekeeping’”’: 
“ After thoroughly testing Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, I am satisfied 
it is the strongest and best on the market.” 


Receipts by these and many other prominent teachers of cookery 


‘and writers on Domestic Science are given on pages 61-69, 


(1) 


Keep these Facts in Mind when 
Buying Baking Powder, 


If you are paying about 15 to 20 cents a pound 
for baking powder (not half what a pure cream of 
tartar baking powder is worth), you may be sure 
something is wrong and that the powder contains 
ammonia, alum, or some other ingredient injurious 
to health. 

If a “ prize” or “ gift” is offered with any baking 
powder, no matter what price is named, beware of it— 
the better the prize, the worse the powder. “ Prizes” 
and ‘ gifts” cannot make adulterated baking powders 
wholesome. In fact, such powders are cheap and 
worthless. They cost only about three cents a 
pound, — 

Look carefully at the label, and be sure you get 
“Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder.” Do not 
take any substitute, or powder of similar name or 
label, which may be offered you as “just as good.” 
There are no “just as goods” in the market. 


With Cleveland’s Baking Powder you will be sure 
to have fine grained cake and biscuit, if directions are 
followed, and a special point of excellence is that 
cake, etc., will keep moist and fresh, not drying out 
as they do when made with other powders. 

(2) 


Why You Should Use 


Cleveland’s Baking Powder, 


It is perfectly wholesome, its active principles, pure 
cream of tartar and soda, creating the most healthful and 
efficient leaven known to science; absolutely free from 
alum, ammonia or other adulterant or ingredient. ; 


The accuracy of the composition is verified by Government and State Official 
tests, by Government Chemists and by eminent Professors of Chemistry. 


It is the strongest. Only a rounded spoonful is re- 
quired, of Cleveland’s Baking Powder, not a heaping 
spoonful. A large saving on a year’s bakings. 


Teachers of cookery attest the superior strength of Cleveland’s Baking 
Powder. 


Cake and other articles of food keep moist and 
fresh and do not dry up as when made with baking 
powders containing ammonia or alum. 


Lecturers on Domestic Science specify this special excellence of Cleveland's 
Baking Powder, as Marion Harland, who says: ‘t Cakes, muffins, biscuits, &c., 
in which Cleveland’s baking powder is used, keep better.”’ 

It does uniform work and always gives satisfac- 


tion, a fact confirmed by thousands of letters from 
patrons as well as from experts in the culinary art. 

It keeps its strength better than other baking 
powders, as shown by a series of tests by the Mass- 
achusetts State Analyst. 

Cleveland’s was the baking powder selected for 
use in the Model Kitchen of the Woman’s Building 
at the World’s Fair. 


“‘ Owing to the purity, strength, effectiveness and constancy of 
composition of Cleveland’s Superior baking powder, I have adopted 
the same for use in my home.” ; 


” 
Late U. S. Govt. Chemist. jt ve. 3 Di2ot Kf. 


(8) 


Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder 


—— JS — 


Absolutely the Best 
BECAUSE 


1. It does not contain Ammonia: “Ammoniaisa drug, nota food ; an 
excrement, not a nutriment. The long continued use of ammonia impairs 
digestion by neutralizing the gastric juice.”’—Pacific Medical Journal. 

2 It does not contain Alum: “ Baking powder that contains alum is 
not a fit article of consumption. Parties selling or manufacturing such 
baking powder will be liable to arrest for selling an article that is consid- 
ered deleterious to health.’’— Ohio Official Report, page 17. 

3. «Tt does not contain any adulteration whatever.” —Prof. Morton, 
President of Stevens Institute of Technology. . 

4, Its formula the most approved: The ingredients used in Cleve- 
land’s Baking Powder, and the method of their combination, are those 
most approved by hygienists and scientists for the production of a perfect 
leavening agent. * 

5. “Ic is richest in cream of tartar.”—Gen. Hurst, late Ohio Food 
Commissioner. 


6. It is highest in leavening power, yielding (average of four Official 
Reports) 12.87 per cent. carbonic acid gas, showing a greater strength than 
any other pure cream of tartar powder. 

7. It has the best keeping qualities: As shown by a series of tests 
made by Mass, State Analyst, Dr. B. F. Davenport, June, 1890. 

8. Food keeps moist and fresh: ‘“ Food made with Cleveland’s Baking 
Powder keeps moist and. fresh, and in this respect it is superior to any 
powder | know.’’—Mrs, S. T. Rorer, Principal Philadelphia Cooking School. 

9. ‘*It is perfectly wholesome.”—A. F. Underwood, Chemist for U. S. 
Gov't, 1890. 

10. It never fais to make light, wholesome food. — Brattleboro 
Household. 


ll. Always ‘good luck” with it: ‘ Cleveland’s Baking Powder isso 
sure that Ican use it in tne aark or with my eyes shut and be sure of the 
same happy results.” —Mrs. M. H. B. 


12. It is most economical: “An eyen teaspoonful of Cleveland's 
Baking Powder will do as mucn or more than a heaping teaspoonful of other 
powders.”—Mrs. S. T. korer. pay? 2 Philadelphia Cooking School. 


The leading brands of baxing powder (30 in all) were examined by the 
Ohio Food Commission. General Hurst was the head of the commission, 
and General Hurst said: ‘“ Cleveland’s Superior is absolutely the best and 
most desirable baking powaer manufactured.” 


“ Thave used Clevelana’s baking powder ever since I have been 


keeping house, and think tt is the best baking powder. Never wsed 
any other only a few times, and I was sorry for that.’—D. W. H. 


Index on Pages 70-72. 


SOUPS. 


** Now good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.” 
SHAKESPEARE. 


Amber Sou p.—A large soup bone (two pounds), a chicken, a small 
slice of ham, an onion, two sprigs of parsley, half a small carrot, half a 
small parsnip, half a stick of celery, three cloves, pepper, salt, a gallon of 
cold water, whites and shells of two eggs, and caramel for coloring. Boil 
slowly for five hours, beef, chicken and ham ; add the vegetables and cloves 
to cook last hour, having first fried the onion in a little fat. Strain the soup 
into an earthen bowl, and let remain over night. Next day remove cake 
of fat on the top; take out the jelly, avoiding the settlings, and mix into it 
the beaten whites of the eggs with the shells. Boil quickly for half a 
minute, then pass through a jelly bag. When ready to serve, add.a large 
tablespoon of caramel. 


Asparagus Sou p.— Boil one quart of asparagus, cut in inch 
lengths, in one quart of water until tender; rub through a colander and 
return to the water in which it was boiled. Heat one pint milk, stir into it 
one tablespoonful butter rubbed with one of flour, and cook a few moments. 
Season, and pour into asparagus. Let get boiling hot, pour into tureen over 
toasted bread cut into dice. Serve at once. 


Bouillon.—Six pounds of beef and bone. Cut up the meat and break 
the bones; add two quarts of cold water and simmer slowly five hours. 
Strain through a fine sieve, removing every particle of fat. Season only 
with pepper and salt. 


Bean Soup. — One quart of dried beans, not quite one-half pound 
ef fat salt pork. Put over early in the morning in cold water, bring to 
a boil, and drain off the water; repeat this twice. Then boil steadily for 
five hours, season with pepper and salt. Just before serving, pass through 
a colander, rubbing all the thick part through with a wooden spoon. The 
beans should be soaked over night and water should be added while boiling. 


Mock Bisque Soup.-—One-half can tomatoes cooked until soft 
enough to strain. Scald one quart milk in double boiler. Cook one table- 
spoonful cornstarch in two tablespoonfuls butter, and stir slowly into hot 
milk. Cook in double boiler five minutes, season, add a pinch of soda, and 
when ready to serve add the strained tomatoes. If fresh tomatoes are 
used, have one and one-half cups when cooked. 


“T succeed better with Cleveland’s Baking Powder than with any 
other I have used.”—A. Granday, Ex-Chef Wm. K. Vanderbilt, 


and Union League Club. 
(5) 


6 CLEVELAND’s Baxinc Pownpsr, Purr anp Surg. 


Celery Soup.—Five heads celery, one pint good soup stock, three 


pints water, one-half pint cream or rich milk. Cut the celery into inch 
lengths, put on with the water and cook until tender. Take out the celery 
and rub through asieve. Add to the soup stock and cook slowly one-half 
hour. Heat the cream and stir into it one tablespoonful flour rubbed into 
one tablespoonful butter, cook five minutes. Pour, into the celery, let get 
very hot but not boil, and serve. 


Lotus Club Clam Sou p.— Chop fine thirty large clams with their 
juice ; add two and one-half quarts of cold water, let it come to a boil, and 
add a small piece of salt pork, two large onions, a little mace and parsley. 
With four even tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well one-fourth pound of butter, 
alittle salt and pepper. Boil hard one-half hour; take from the fire and 
add the well beaten yolks of four eggs, and one pint of hot milk. Do not 
put on the fire again. 


Corn Soup. — Split the grains of one dozen ears of corn, and scrape. 
Boil the cobs in enough water to cover them for ten minutes. Strain this 
water and use one quart. Add to it slowly one quart cream, then the corn. 
Season and cook fifteen minutes. Milk can be used instead of cream, 
thickened with one tablespoonful each butter and flour rubbed together. 
Serve at once. 


Lobster Sou p.—Cook a lobster weighing four pounds, and cut into 
small pieces. Place in a bowl six crackers, rolled fine, one cup of butter, 
salt, and a very little cayenne pepper; mix well together. Heat three pints 
of milk, and one of water; stir in the mixture, boil two or three minutes, 
add the rer lobster, and boil up once. 


Oyster Soup. — Take forty large cysters for this soup. One quart 
of milk, and enough of the strained liquor and cold water to make one 
pint; add this with a little salt anda large piece of butter to the milk, let 
it come to a boil, add the oysters, and let it boil up once. If desired, 
thicken with a little rolled cracker. 


Split Pea Sou p.— One pint of peas, washed twice in warm water. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of water and one tablespoonful of dripping or 
bacon fat in a saucepan which will hold three pints; put in the peas 
three hours before they are needed, and let stand on the back of the stove 
to swell. Add cold water as they continue to swell. Let simmer till 
twenty minutes before the soup is wanted. Shred some celery and one 
onion, very fine. When the peas are boiling, add one teaspoonful of salt, 
dissolved in water, throw in the vegetables and boil ten minutes. Strain 
through a colander, beating the thick part with a wooden spoon. Return 
to saucepan and simmer. Mix one tablespoonful of flour in cold water, 
add a little hot broth and throw in. Serye with dice of toasted bread. 


Remember: Most baking powders contaan ammonia or alum. 
Cleveland's does not, not a particle, 


e 


Sours. 7 


Potato Sou p.—Six boiled and mashed potatoes, one quart of milk, 
one-fourth pound of butter. Season with pepper and salt. While mashing, 
add the butter and pour in gradually the boiling milk. Stir well and strain 
through a sieve, heat once more. Beat up an egg, put in the tureen and 
pour over it the soup when ready to serve. 


Tomato Sou p.— One quart can of tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar, one pint of 
hot water, (or one quart of soup stock) a little red pepper. Let the tomato 
and stock, (or water, ) come to a boil, rub flour, butter and a little of the to- 
mato together, and stir into the boiling mixture. Strain through a sieve 
fine enough to retain the seeds. Butter slices of stale bread, cut in small 
squares, place in a tin pan buttered side up, and brown in a quick oven. 
Serve with the soup. 


Mock Turtle Soup. — Boil a calf’s liver and heart with a knuckle 
of veal for three or four hours, skimming well, then strain off. Chop the 
meat fine, and add to it a chopped onion, salt, pepper and ground cloves 
to taste, thickening, if necessary, with a little browned flour, cooking again 
in the liquor. Have the yolks of four or five hard boiled eggs cut up for the 
tureen ; also slices of lemon. 


OYSTERS AND FISH. 


*‘Master, I marvel how the fishes live in the sea!”’ 
“Why, as men do a land; the great ones eat up the little ones.”’ 
PERICLES. 


Clam Chowder.—One quart of clams, six large crackers, Fry two 
slices of salt pork in an iron pot. Take it out soon, leaving the fat in the 
pot. Slice one onion, put in two or three slices. Have about six potatoes 
cut up like dice; put in a layer of potatoes, then one of clams, having the 
clams chopped tine, sprinkle plenty of pepper and salt, then a layer of 
onion, and the bits of pork cut in small pieces, (that have been fried); add 
a layer of broken crackers; fill up the remainder in this way. Then add 
the clam liquor and as much water as will more than cover them. Cook 
twenty minutes or until the potatoes are done. Just before serving add one 
pint of hot milk. This quantity is sufficient for eight persons. 


Codfish Balls.—Three pints boiling water, one cup salt codfish 
which has been picked into small pieces and freed from bones, one pint 
potatoes peeled and quartered. Put all together in pan, and boil until 
potatoes are soft. Drain off the water, mash and beat until soft and smooth, 
add one teaspoonful butter, a little pepper, and when slightly cooled, one 
well-beaten egg. Shape into balls with a tablespoon, and fry in hot lard. 


“ By practical tests in the kitchen, Cleveland’s baking | powders 
the most economical, less being required for the same baking, 


Author of ‘‘ White House” GA BZ 
Cook Book. Gon, Je ASS LDA ET OE TS 


8 CLEVELAND’s BAKING PowpER, PuRE AND SuRE. 


Fish Chowder.—Three or four pounds fresh haddock, carefully 
cleaned and cut in pieces three inches square. Place in bottom of kettle 
five or six slices salt pork, fry brown, then add three onions sliced thin, fry 
them brown. Remove from the fire, and place on the pork and onions a 
layer of fish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, then a layer of peeled sliced 
potatoes, then fish and potatoes till fish is used up. Cover with water and 
let boil half an hour. Roll six crackers, put in with the fish, and lastly add 
a pint or more of milk. Let get thoroughly heated, and serve. 


Baked Fish.— Make a dressing of bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls 
of minced onion, some chopped parsley, a little butter, one tablespoonful 
of chopped suet, pepper and salt, and a beaten egg. Stuff the fish and sew 
or tie securely. Place in a pan with some hot water; lay pieces of pork 
on top with a little pepper and salt, and bake, basting very often. 


Lobster a la Newburg.—Two pounds lobster boiled forty-five 
minutes. Yolks three hard-boiled eggs rubbed smooth with cream or milk 
one large tablespoon of flour rubbed’ into two tablespoons butter. Heat 
one gill of cream in a double boiler, add the prepared yolks and flour, one- 
half teaspoon salt, a shake of red pepper and one grating of nutmeg. 
Cook and stir until smooth and thick, then add lobster meat and cook ten 
minutes longer. Just before serving add two tablespoons sherry or 
Madeira wine. 


Oysters ala Newburg,.—Heat one gill of cream in a double 
boiler. Rub one large tablespoon flour into two ounces of butter. Rub the 
yolks of three hard-boiled eggs smooth with a little cream, add to hot 
cream with flour mixture. Stir until thick and smooth. Adda shake of 
red pepper and one-half teaspoonful salt. Cook forty oysters in their own 
liquor and one teaspoon of salt until edges are curled, about ten minutes, 
then drain, add at once to cream prepared with two tablespoons sherry, 
and serve at once. 


Little Pigs in Blankets.—Take as many large oysters as are 
wished, wash and dry them thoroughly with a clean towel. Have some 
fat bacon cut in yery thin slices, cover each oyster with them, and pin on 
with wooden toothpicks. Broil or roast them until the bacon is crisp and 
brown. Do not remove toothpicks. Serve hot. 


Creamed Oysters.-—To one-half tablespoonful butter, melted in a 
saucepan, add one heaping tablespoonful flour. Cook a few moments, and 
stir in gradually one cup hot milk. Season with salt, pepper and one tea- 
spoonful celery salt. Wash and pick over carefully one pint fine oysters, 
boil them in their own liquor until plump, drain, and pour over therm the 
sauce. 


She can bake, she can broil, she can fry, 
Ne’er a cake does she spoil, nor a Ae 
She’s perfectly neat, her temper is sweet, 
And this is the reason why : 

She uses Cleveland’s baking powder. 


8 


OystERS AND Fisu. ' 9 


Roast Oysters on Toast.—Toast some slices of bread. Wash 
and wipe some large ‘ine oysters, spread as many as possible on each slice 
of toast, season with salt, pepper and plenty of bits of butter. Put ina hot 
oven until the edges of the oysters curl. Serve at once. 


Steamed Oysters on Toast.—Drain and wash the oysters. 
Put them with their liquor into a saucepan and cook until the oysters are 
plump, shaking the pan frequently to prevent burning. Drain off the 
liquor, season with salt, pepper and butter, and pile on nicely browned 
slices of toast. 


Scalloped Oysters. — One quart oysters. Put in a colander, drain 
off the juice, and wash carefully to remove all bits of shell. Butter a deep 
pudding dish, cover the bottom with cracker crumbs (not too fine), season 
with salt, pepper and bits of butter, then a layer e” Uysters seasoned, a 
layer of crackers then oysters until the oysters are used. Put cracker 
crumbs on top with bits of butter. Pour over a few tablespoonfuls of the 
oyster liquor strained, and one cup cream. Bake covered half an hour, 
uncovered half an hour. 


Cream Salmon.+One can of Salmon minced fine, drain off the 
liquor and throw away. For the dressing, boil one pint of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Have ready one pint of fine 
bread crumbs, place a layer in the bottom of the dish, then a layer of fish, 
then a layer of dressing and so on, having crumbs for the last layer. Bake 
till brown. 


Turbot & la Creme.—Three pounds of Halibut, or Cod, boiled 
with plenty of salt, remove skin and bones, and flake. Boil one bunch of 
parsley and one large onion in a little water to extract the flavor; take 
out and thicken with three tablespoonfuls of flour ; then add it to one quart 
of cream and milk together (more cream improves it), and one-half cup 
of butter. Put alternate layers of fish and sauce in a deep buttered dish 
(sauce on top), cover with bread crumbs and bake till brown. 


Oyster Dressing for Turkey — One pound bread, crumbled fine, 
add two stalks of celery chopped fine, one-half pound butter melted, salt 
and pepper to taste. Add to this two quarts of the best oysters, strained 
from their liquor, and carefully picked over for bits of shell, ete. When 
oysters are mixed with bread, add enough of Sheir liquor to moisten stuff- 
ing well. Fill the turkey, and baste with equal parts of liquor of oysters 
and water. : 


NOT 


USE A HEAPING 


A ROUNDED 


Cleveland’s the strong- 
est of all pure cream of 
tartar baking powders.— 
See latest U. &. Govt. 


ES Ks SPOONFUL 


16 Oneverann’s Baking Powpsr, Purk AND SuRH. 


MEATS. 


“There ’s no want of meats, sir, 
Portly and curious viands are prepared 
To please all kinds of appetite.” 
MASSENGER. 


Meats to be roasted or broiled, should be given the greatest amount of 
heat possible at first, that the surface may be hardened and the juices 
retained. 


Stewed Beef a la Mode.—Take the desired quantity of round 
beef, cut into three ounce pieces, and dredge with flour. Fry in the stew 
pan some beef drippings and a sliced onion. Put in the meat, and fry well 
stirring constantly ten minutes. Then add gradually enough water to cover 
the meat, season with salt, pepper, a teaspoonful each allspice, cloves and 
mace, a bay leaf, anda sliced lemon. Let it simmer gently four hours. 


Beef Olives.—One and one-half pounds of beef cut very thin, trim 
off edges and fat and cut in strips three inches wide and four long; season 
well with pepper and salt, chop fine the trimmings and fat, add three table- 
spoonfuls of rolled cracker, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful 
of sage and savory, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Mix thoroughly and spread on the strips of beef, roll, tie with’ 
twine and rollin flour. Cut in thin slices one-fourth of a pound of pork, fry 
brown, take out and put in the olives; fry brown. Put them in asmall 
saucepan that can be closely covered. To the remaining fat in the pan, 
add one tablespoonful of flour and stir until perfectly smooth and brown, 
then pour in gradually one and one-half pints of boiling water. Stir for 
two or three minutes, season with salt and pepper and pour over the olives. 
Cover the saucepan and let simmer two hours. Any kind of cheap meat 
will do. 


Beef Stew with Dumplings.—Two pounds lean beef, cut into 
inch squares, sprinkled with salt, pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Cut fat from meat into small bits, put in stew pan and [ry ten minutes. Cut 
one onion, two slices carrot, two small turnips in small dice and fry in hot 
fat for ten minutes. Putin the meatand fry tillit browns, stirring to prevent 
burning, then pour over one large quart hot water, and set on stove where 
it will simmer gently two and one-half hours. Then add two sliced pota- 
toes, boil ten minutes, then put in dumplings and boil hard ten minutes, 


“The results obtained by the use of Cleveland’s baking powder 
have always been satisfactory.” 


Principal Boston Cooking 
School, 


Jae Mais = Srey 


Mears. 11 


without lifting the cover. Dumplings—One pint flour, two teaspoonfuls 
Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-quarter 
cup sugar. Mix thoroughly, and wet with one small cup milk. Roll one- 
half inch thick, cut with biscuit cutter. 


Pot Roast Beef, — Take a lean piece of beef. Cut alittle fat from 
it and fry in an iron pot a few minutes. Season the beef, and sprinkle over 
a little flour; put in the pot and fry brown on all sides. Pour in hot water 
to half cover the beef, cover tightly and cook until tender. Add a little 
boiling water at intervals to prevent burning. Thicken the gravy, and 
pour around the meat on the platter. 


Fillet of Beef. —A(fter it is trimmed and larded, put it into a small 
baking-pan, in the bottom of which are some chopped pieces of pork and 
beef-suet ; sprinkle some salt and pepper over it anda half pint of hot stock. 
Baste often, cook a full half hour in a hot oven. 

Mushroom Sauce.—Take a ladie full of stock; add to it part of juice 
from the can of mushrooms; thicken with a teaspoonful of flour and of 
butter mixed ; add pepper and salt to taste and a few drops of lemon-juice ; 
add the mushrooms, simmer a few minutes and pour over the beet. 


Creamed Dried Beef. — One tablespoonful butter, browned in @ 
frying pan. Put in about one-half pound chipped beef, and let get thor- 
oughly hot. Pour in about one cup milk, and thicken with a little flour 
and water. Scrambled eggs put around the beef are a nice addition to it. 


Chicken Pie. — Cut into pieces one chicken, boil in enough water to 
cover until tender, adding when half done one tablespoonful salt. Take 
out chicken, keep warm, and thicken the liquid with one tablespoonful 
each flour and butter rubbed together. Add salt and pepper to taste. Boil 
five minutes. Take one quart flour, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior 
Baking Powder, a little salt and one small cup butter. Mix as biscuit. 
Take half, roll one-quarter inch thick, and line a deep dish, leaving an 
inch over the sides to turn up over top crust. Put in chicken, pour over 
gravy, cover with the other crust, with a large hole in center for steam to 
escape. Wet the edge and fold over the under crust, press firmly together. 
Spread soft butter over the top, make ornament to fit the center, and bake 
until done. 


Fried Chicken. — Wash the chickens until all the blood is out, cut 
them in pieces, rub a very little salt over them, then roll each piece in flour. 
Fry them (covered) till a nice brown color in lard or butter. Make a gravy 
of cream and butter; if the cream is not very thick, add a little flour, season 
to taste, adding a little mace or nutmeg as desired. 


Jellied Chicken. — Boil until tender, in enough water to cover, one 
chicken Remove when done, and let water boil down to one quart. Cut 


For most luscious pot pies and dumplings, use Cleveland's Sup- 
erior Baking Powder, 


12 CxLEvELaNn’s Baxinc PowpsER, PurE AND SURE. 


the meat into small pieces. To the water add three-quarters box gelatine, 
soaked, one tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Slice one hard-boiled egg, add to the chicken, pour over it the 
strained liquor. Mix well, and put into square mold. Set in cool place to 
harden. 


Pressed Chicken. — Boil a chicken until tender; take out all the 
bones and chop the meat very fine; season with salt, pepper, and plenty 
of butter. Add to the liquor the chicken was boiled in, one cup of bread 
crumbs, made soft with hot water, and to this, the choppedchicken. When 
heated, take out and press into a basin. Serve cold. 


Smothered Chicken.—Cut up chicken for fricassee, wash and 
let stand in cold water a little while. Drain, season, dredge with flour, and 
put in dripping pan not quite covered with water. Dot with bits of butter. 
Cover closely and bake until tender. When done, take from pan and make 
a gravy. 

Yankee Potpie. — Stew one chicken until tender and make a gravy 
with it as for fricassee. Take some fresh baking-powder biscuit, break 
them open and spread on a platter crust side down, and when ready to 
serve, pour over the chicken and gravy. 


How to Boil a Ham.—Put a ham weighing ten pounds in a pot 
large enough to contain water enough to coverit. Bring to a boil gradu- 
ally, then add two heads celery, two turnips, three onions, a bunch of savory 
herbs —the vegetables cut into dice. Let it simmer gently four hours. Re- 
move the skin, sprinkle with pepper, put in a few cloves, and brown ina 
quick oven. 


Ham Patties. — One pint of ham, which has been previously cooked, 
mix with two parts of bread crumbs, wet with milk. Put the batter in gem 
pans, break one egg over each, sprinkle the top thickly with cracker 
crumbs, and bake until browned over. A nice breakfast dish. 


Stewed Kid ney.— Put on a kidney early in the afternoon and let 
simmer till bed time, allow it to remain all night in the same water. Next 
morning cut into small pieces, and stew for an hour or more; make a brown 
gravy and just before serving add two hard boiled eggs, sliced. 


Roast Calf’s Liver.— Wash thoroughly and wipe dry, cut a long 
deep hole in the side, stuff with crumbs, bacon and onion, chopped fine, 
salt, pepper, bits of butter, and one well beaten egg. Sew or tie together. 
Lard it over and bake. Serve with gravy and currant jelly. 


Meat Balls. —One bowl full of fine chopped cold meat; add one cup 
of bread or cracker crumbs, alittle chopped onion, a little gravy mixed with 
the crumbs to moisten them. Season with pepper, salt, thyme or savory, 
and fry in balls. 


“ Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder ts absolutely free from 
any kind of adulteration. We endorse it most cordially as an aon- 
est and efficient article.” Peter T Austen, Prof. Ohemistry, Rutgers 
College, IN. J.; Francis A. Wilber, M. S., Chemist Board of 
Health, Newark, N. J, - 


Meats. 13 


For Roast Meats.—Cover the bottom of the pan with water, but 
do not baste until the juices have cooked out into the water, or you will 
toughen it, and make jt less rich. Should the meat be cooked Without a 
rack, see that it is very fat, then it can be placed in the pan and no water 
added until after it has commenced baking, but it requires watching to 
prevent burning. 


Russian Baked Liver.—Boil a calf’s liver one hour and a half, or 
until cooked through. Chop fine with a little salt pork, two onions (or 
more if liked). Season with butter, salt and pepper. Make into a loaf and 
put thin strips of pork on top, and bake one hour or more, according to size. 


English Yorkshire Pudding. — One-half pound of flour, one 
pint of milk, a pinch of salt, one teaspoonful of Clevyeland’s Superior Bak- 
ing Powder. Mix well together the baking powder, flour and salt, then add 
one-half the milk, and beat until perfectly smooth; then add remainder of 
the milk. Melt some butter or dripping in a flat tin, pour in the batter, 
place a joint of beef or mutton on it, and bake in a quick oven. 


Veal Loaf.—Three and one-half pounds of minced veal (the leg is 
best for this purpose), three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful of pepper 
and one of salt, one grated nutmeg, four rolled crackers, one tablespoonful 
of cream, butter the size of an egg. Mix these together and make into a 
loaf, roast and baste like other meats. Beef may be used in place of yeal 
by adding one-fourth pound of salt pork, minced fine. 


VEGETABLES. 


“Captus Nidore Culine.” 


Scalloped Apples. — Butter a pudding dish, and put a layer of 
peeled sliced apples in the bottom. Sprinkle with sugar, a very little flour 
and cinnamon, and some small bits of butter. Fill the dish in this manner, 
and bake one hour, covering the dish to prevent burning on the top. Serve 


cold or hot. 


Baked Beans.—Soak one quart of beans over night, pour off the 
water and cook in fresh water until they crack open; then put into a deep 
earthen dish, cover with the water (add one teacup of sweet milk or cream 
if desired), put into centre of the dish one-half pound of par-boiled pork 
which should be scored across the rind. Bake slowly four hours. Keep 
nearly coyered with water until two-thirds done; then allow them to bake 
brown. 

Beets. —Do not break the skins in washing or they will lose their color 
in cooking. Boil one hour in hot, slightly salt water. Rub off the skins, 
split in half, dish, and pour on them a boiling mixture of one tablespoonful 
of melted butter, two of vinegar and alittle pepperand salt. Serve ball hot. 

“I prefer Cleveland’s baking powder because I consider it per- 
fectly wholesome and it always gives uniform results. 


Late Principal Boston °C) pyar DX Pv) pare fave. 


Cooking School, 


14 CreveLaNnyn’s Baxina PowpeERr, Purn AND Surg. 


Lady Cabbage.—Chop some cabbage very fine, cook in boiling 
water one-half hour. Drain, then season highly with salt and pepper, a 
half cup milk, and one tablespoonful butter. Cook a few minutes and serve. 

‘Baked Corn.—Cut the grains of one dozen ears of corn down the 
middle and scrape. Add one cup boiling milk, one-half cup butter, salt 
and pepper to taste. Put in buttered baking dish, dot over small bits of 
butter and bake in moderate oven three-quarters of an hour. 


To Cook Cranberries.—A4d one teacup water to one quart cran- 
berries, and put on the fire. Cook ten minutes, rub through a colander, add 
two heaping cups sugar and cook about ten minutes longer, Pour intoa 
porcelain or china mold. Turn out asa jelly. 


Cold Siaw.—One-half pint rich milk or cream, one-half pint good 
vinegar, one small cup sugar, three eggs beaten very light, a lump of butter 
size of an egg, dne heaping teaspoonful ground mustard, pepper and salt. 
Cook all together until like custard. When cool, pour over cabbage cut 
very fine. 


Egg Plant.—Peel and cut the plant in slices less than one-half inch 
thick. Immerse in salt and water over an hour, drain and dip each slice 
in beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry brown. 


Scalloped Onions, Cauliflower or Asparagus.— Boil 
either vegetable until tender, then put in baking dish and pour over sauce 
made of one tablespoonful butter rubbed into one and one-half tablespoon- 
fuls flour, pour over it one pint hot milk, and cook until like custard. Bake 
one-half hour. Cut cauliflower or asparagus into small pieces before pour- 
ing over the sauce. 

Parsnip Balls.—Boil in salted water till very tender; mash and 
season with butter, pepper and salt ; add a little flour and two well beaten 
eggs. Form into small balls, and fry in hot lard. 


Creamed Potatoes,.—Put one tablespoonful butter in a frying pan 
and when it bubbles, add one tablespoonful flour. Add one cup hot milk, 
with salt and pepper to taste. Add one pint cold boiled potatoes cut into 
small dice, cook until thoroughly hot. 


Pilaff.—Two cups of water, one cup of rice. Put on the water with 
a little salt, and add the juice of one or two tomatoes to the water, or suf- 
ficient to color it. When the water boils, put in the rice, and boil until all 
the water is soaked up. Then add melted butter to taste, stir, cover and 
keep in a warm place, but not on the fire, till dinner is served. 


Potato Croq uettes.—Two cups of cold mashed potatoes free from 
lumps, two eggs beaten to a froth, one tablespoonful of melted butter, salt 
and pepper to taste; form into cakes, roll in beaten egg and cracker 
crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 


“As I find Cleveland’s baking powder to be pure and eminently 
successful in its results, I use it exclusively in all my classes.” 


i s 
Supt. of Cookery, Public “ay Ms 
Schools San Francisco, Cal. i, 


VEGETABLES. 15 


Sacked Potatoes, —Select for baking, potatoes as near of a size as 
possible ; cut off each end; when baked, scoop out the inside with a spoon, 
being careful not to break the skins. Add to the potato, butter, salt, and 
sufficient hot milk to make quite soft; beat till very light and smooth; fill 
the skins with this and place on end in a buttered pan on the oven grate 
till browned on top. The potatoes will puff up considerably if sufficiently 
beaten. Nice for breakfast or tea. 


Scalloped Potatoes. — Butter a baking dish, pare potatoes and 
slice thin, put in dish a layer of potatoes, and sprinkle with salt, pepper 
and a little butter ; then another layer of potatoes, etc., until dish is nearly 
full. Then fill with milk or cream. Bake one hour and a half. 


Roasted Potatoes with Beef.—Pare the potatoes and place 
in the pan on the rack with the meat, basting when you do the beef. They 
will be nicely browned, and mealy when the meat is done. 


Saratoga Potatoes. —Peel and slice very thin six large potatoes, 
lay them in ice water one hour, and thoroughly dry them with a clean 
towel. Drop each slice separately in a kettle of boiling lard, fry until crisp 
and brown. Take out with wire spoon, drain and sprinkle with salt while 
hot. 


Baked Rhubarb. — Peel and cut into two-inch lengths three bunch- 
esrhubarb. Dredge with flour, and put in baking dish with one large cup 
sugar sprinkled over. Bake in moderate oven three quarters of an hour. 
Very nice served hot as a vegetable, or cold as a sauce. 


Minced Spinach.— Wash spinach carefully and boil until tender. 
Drain, and rub through a colander or chop fine. Then put in frying pan a 
good lump of butter, the spinach, and salt and pepper to taste. When hot 
beat in three spoonfuls of cream. Garnish with sliced hard boiled egg. 


Succotash. — Boil one quart lima or string beans until tender. Cut 
down the middle the grains of one dozen ears corn, and scrape. Drain off 
water from beans, add the corn, season with salt, pepper and a good lump 
ofbutter. If too dry add a little cream or milk. Cook twenty minutes after 
adding the corn. 

Baked Tomatoes. — Take six large ripe tomatoes, skin and cut 
into small pieces. Spread a layer in the bottom of bake dish, season well, 
put a layer of coarse bread crumbs over the tomatoes with plenty of butter. 
Continue this until the dish is full, having bread crumbs on top. Bake one 
hour. 

Turnips a la Creme.—Cut peeled turnips into half inch dice, 
boil in salted water and drain, pour over acream sauce made of one cup 
hot milk poured gradually over one tablespoonful each butter and flour 
rubbed together. Salt and pepper. 


Cleveland’s Baking Powder is pure and sure and always makes 
pure wholesome food. 


16 CrevenaNnn’s Baxine Powpgsr, Pure aNnp Surg. 


WELSH RAREBIT, ETC. 


Welsh Rarebit.—One pound cheese, grated, one large tablespoon 
butter, one tablespoon tomato catsup, one-quarter teaspoon salt, ono gill 
beer or ale, dash of red pepper. Cook in a double boiler, stirring all the 
time until smooth and thick. Serve on hot dipped and buttered toast. 


Cheese Fondu.— One cup rolled crackers, one cup milk, three- 
fourths cup chopped cheese, two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
very light; stir altogether and bake about twenty minutes in a very quick 
oven. Serve immediately. 


Baked Biscuit and Cheese.— Soak five large broken biscuit 
in one cup milk a few minutes, then add one cup grated cheese, one table- 
spoonful melted butter, salt and pepper to taste. Mix well, put in buttered 
bake dish and bake slowly half an hour. 


Macaroni with Cheese.— One-quarter pound or twelve sticks 
macaroni broken into one inch lengths, and cooked in three pints boiling 
salted water twenty minutes. Turn into a colander and pour over it cold 
water; drain. Make a sauce of one tablespoonful each of butter and flour 
and one and one-half cups hot milk, salt. Putalayer of grated cheese in bot- 
tom of bake dish, then a layer of macaroni and one of sauce; then cheese, 
macaroni and sauce, and coyer the top with fine bread crumbs, with bits 
of butter dotted over, and a little grated cheese. Bake until brown. 


Spaghetti. ‘(Mexican style.)—Put a tablespoonful of lard and butter 
in a porcelain saucepan. When hot add one-quarter pound of spaghetti 
broken in desired lengths, half an onion sliced, one large tomato sliced, 
pepper and salt, and a dash of red pepper. Stir to preyent burning, and 
allow to brown slightly. Then add one large cup stock or hot water and 
boil until the water has been absorbed, being sure the spaghetti is tender, 


TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES, 


s"teaspooniuls‘of liquil....c7.sen cutee ee nates 1 tablespoonful. 
I pinttiof Jiqnid Aca ae ce ete nen cao eS 1 pound, 
WPilsol liquids. SF Se awk A Se See 1 cup or ¢ pint. 
2 round tablespoonfuls of flour...<..................- NG 1 ounce. 
4 cups. of sbread' foun: a.5 seers clearence eee 1 quart or 1 pound. 
1 cup of bitters. 7s sc. tm secs he ccicen eetics ee heme eee 4 pound, 
L-ping Of DUtter’ sso. nsec tas os ca-. cael Sse Mee ne 1 pound. 
Itablespoontnlof Dutter cence seen eee eee eae 1 ounce, 
Butter the size of an egg..... g oABD a salacale x acer te as ister 2 ounces, 
Be os whe nad leleines Same oe aah i a ee aE ee 1 pound, 
2/cups of granulated sugar-..+...ct seek eee ee 1 pound, 


24 Cups: of powdered sugar, | orscseses ache. enema 1 pound, 


KITCHEN TIME TABLE: 


Especially prepared by Mrs. D. A. Lincoln, Author of the 


Boston Cook Book. 


TIME REQUIRED FOR: 


BAKING 


Beans, 8 to 10 hours. 

Beef, sirloin, rare, per lb., 8 to 10 
min, {15 min. 

Beef, sirloin, well done, per lb., 12 to 
» rolled rib or rump, per Ib., 12 
to 15 min. 

Beef, long or short fillet, 20 to 30 min. 

Bread, brick loaf, 40 to 60 min. 

Biscuit, 10 to 20 min. 

Cake, plain, 20 to 40 min. 

Cake, sponge, 45 to 60 min. {hrs. 

Chickens, 3 to 4 lbs. weight, 1 to 14 

Cookies, 10 to 15 min. 

Custards, 15 to 20 min. 

Duck, tame, 40 to 60 min. 

Fish, 6 to 8 lbs., 1 hour. 

Gingerbread, 20 to 30 min. 

Graham Gems, 30 min. 

Halibut, 4 to 6 lbs., 1 hour. 

Lamb, well done, per lb., 15 min. 

Meat, braised, 3 to 4 hours. 

Mutton, rare, per lb., 10 min. 

Mutton, well done, per lb., 15 min. 

Pie Orust, 30 to 40 min. ¥ 

Pork, well done, per lb., 30 min. 

Potatoes, 30 to 45 min. (Lh. 

Pudding, Bread, Rice and Tapioca, 

Pudding, Plum, 2 to 3 hours. 

Rolls, 10 to 15 min. 

Turkey, 10 lbs., 3 hours. 5 

Veal, well done, per lb., 20 min. 


BOILING 


Asparagus, 15 to 20 min. 
Bass, per ]b., 10 min. 

Beans, shell, 1 to 2 hours. 
Beans, string, 2 hours. 
Beef-a-la-mode, 3 to 4 hours 
Beets, young, 45 to 60 min. 
Blue Fish, per lb., 10 min. 
Brown Bread, 3 hours. : 
Oabbage, young, 30 to 45 min. 
Oarrots, 45 to 60 min. 
Oauliflower, 30 to 45 min. 
Celery, 30 to 45 min. 
Chickens, 45 to 60 min. 
Clams, 3 to 5 min. 

Cod, per lb., 6 min. 

Coffee, 3 to 5 min. 


Corn, green, 5 to 8 min. 

Corned Beef, 4 to 5 hours. 
Eggs, 3 to 5 min. 

Eggs, hard boiled, 15 to 20 min. 
Fowls, 2 to 3 hours. 

Haddock, per lb., 6 min. : 
Halibut, per lb., cubical, 15 min. 
Ham, 5 hours. 

Hominy, 1 to 2 hours. 

Lamb, 1 hour. 

Macaroni, 20 to 30 min. 
Oatmeal, 1 to 2 hours. 

Onions, 30 to 45 min. 

Oysters, 3 min. 

Oyster Plant, 30 to 60 min. 
Parsnips, 30 to 45 min. 

Peas, 15 to 20 min. 

Potatoes, 20 to 30 min. 

Rice, 15 to 20 min. 

Salmon, per lb., cubical, 15 min. 
Small Fish, per lb., 6 min. 
Smoked Tongue, 3 to 4 hours. 
Spinach, 20 to 30 min. 

Squash, 20 to 30 min. 
Sweetbreads, 20 to 30 min. 
Tomatoes, 15 to 20 min. 
Turkey, 2 to 3 hours. 

Turnips, 30 to 45 min. 

Veal, 2 to 3 hours. 

Wheat, 1 to 2 hours. 

Winter Vegetables, 1 to2 hrs, 


BROILING 


Chickens, 20 min. 

Chops, 8 min. ; 
Steak, 1 inch thich, 4 to 6 min. 
Steak, 1} inch thick, 6 to $8 min, 
Fish, small thin, 5 to 8 min. 
Fish, thick, 12 to 15 min. 


FRYING 


Bacon, 3 to 5 min. , 
Breaded Chops, 4 to 6 min. 
Croquettes, 1 min. _ 
Doughnuts, 3 to 5 min. 
Fish Balls, 1 min. 
Fritters, 3 to 5 min. 
Muffins, 3 to 5 min. 

Slices of Fish, 4 to 6 min. 
Small Fish, 1 to 3 min. 
Smelts, 1 min. 


At church the deacon raised the tune 
With nasal twang first low, then louder ; 

At home his good wife raised the cake 
With some of Cleveland’s baking powder :— 

'Twas vainly hoped his tune he'd make 
One half as good as her fine cake. 


(17) + 


‘ 


18 CLevALAND’s BAKING PowpER, PuRE AND SURBRK. 


ENTREES. 


“Tt is the bounty of nature that we live; but of philosophy that we live well.” 
SENECA. 


Fritters. — To one pint of buttermilk add a little salt, one teaspoonful 
of soda, and stir in flour enough to make a stiff batter. Fry in hot lard. 
One or two eggs improves them. : 


Apple Fritters. — Make a batter with one cup sweet milk, one tea- 
spoontul sugar, two eggs whites and yolks beaten separately, two cups flour, 
one teaspoonful Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder mixed with fiour. 
Chop some good tart apples, mix in the batter, and fry in hot lard. Serve 
with maple syrup. 


Scalloped Clams. —For this prepare twenty-five clams, one-half 
pint of cracker crumbs, one-half cup of warm milk, one-fourth cup of clam 
liquor, two beaten eggs, one heaping tablespoonful melted butter, salt and 
pepper, twelve clam shells. Season the clams highly. Mix in another dish 
crackers moistened first with the milk, then with clam liquor ; add eggs and 
melted butter, and the clams chopped. Fill each clam shell heaping, sprin- 
kle with bread crumbs and brown. 


Clam Fritters. — Twenty-five clams, dried well with a clean towel. 
One pint flour, one small teaspoonful Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, 
two well beaten eggs, one-half pint milk, nearly as much clam liquor. 
Beat until smooth, then stir in the clams. Fry by dropping spoonfuls in 
hot lard. The clams can be chopped if preferred. 


Chicken Croquettes. — One boiled chicken, two ounces of melted 
butter, two ounces of flour, one cup of the water the fowl has been boiled 
in, one-half cup of cream, pepper and salt, two eggs, nutmeg. Boil the 
butter, flour, cream and water together for two minutes. Mix with the 


Pa chicken, cool, then mould, roll in egg, then in bread crumbs, and 
ve 


Chicken Croquettes No. 2.—Minced chicken, a quarter as 
much bread crumbs, one egg to each cup of meat, pepper and salt and 
enough gravy, or drawn butter to moisten the whole, not very wet; make, 
with floured hands, into pear-shaped balls, roll in beaten egg, then in 
bread crumbs, and fry a nice brown. 


Cleveland's the strongest of all pure cream of tartar baking 
powders. 3 
See U. S. Govt., Page 600. 
Official Canadian Gtovt., Page 6. 
Reports NV. J. Dairy Commissioner, Page 87. 
: Ohio Food Commissioner, Page 9. 


ENTREES. 19 


Corn Fritters.—One pint grated corn, one-half teacup milk, one- 
half teacup flour, one small teaspoonful Cleveland’s Superior Baking Pow- 
der, one tablespoonful melted butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful salt, a little 
pepper. Fry in hot lard. 


Deviled Crabs.—To the meat of one dozen hard shell crabs boiled 
fifteen minutes, and chopped, add three tablespoonfuls stale bread crumbs, 
one-half wine glass cream, yolks of three hard boiled eggs, chopped, one 
tablespoonful butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mix all together and put back 


into the shells, sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, small bits of butter, and 
brown in a quick oven. 


Fish Croquettes.— One pint cold boiled fish, free from skin and 
bone and minced fine, ore pint hot mashed potato, one tablespoonful but- 
ter, one-half cup hot milk, one egg well beaten; pepper and salt and a 
little chopped parsley. Mix thoroughly and let cool. When cold make 
into balls, dip into a beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. 


Lobster Croquettes. — Two cups finely chopped lobster, one salt- 
spoonful salt, one of mustard, a trifle cayenne. Mix with one cup cream 


sauce. Make into croquettes, roll in beaten egg and cracker crumbs, and 
fry in hot lard. 


Fricasseed Lobster. — Put the meat of two lobsters cut into small 
pieces, with the fat and some coral in a frying pan with a little pepper, 
salt, one-half cup milk or cream, one cup water, butter size of an egg, and 
one teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce. Let simmer until liquid has a rich 
red color. Take a tablespoonful flour rub into it one-half tablespoonful - 
butter, stir this into one-half cup hot milk, then add the beaten yolk of one 
egg. When ready to serve, stir this into the lobster, and add one table- 
spoonful sherry wine. 


Omelet. — Six eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salt, three tablespoonfuls 
of milk, one of butter. Separate the eggs and beat very light, add the salt 
and milk; have the pan very hot, put in the butter and pour in the egg. 
Shake on the hottest part of the stove till the egg begins to thicken, then 
place on the grate in the oven until set; run the knife between the sides of 
the omelet and pan, fold and serve on a hot dish. 


Oyster Omelet. —Stew one dozen oysters in their own liquor, if 
possible, if not, use a very little water ; roll two or three lumps of butter, 
size of butternuts, in flour, put in and let come to a boil, season well with 
pepper and salt. Take out the oysters and chop them, and if necessary to 
thicken, add a little flour to thesauce. Put back the oysters and set on the 
back part of the stove. Beat four eggs very light, and add two tablespoon- 
fuls of milk or cream. Fry in a well buttered frying pan. When done, re- 
move to a hot platter or deep plate, and pour the oyster sauce over them. 
Serve hot. 


Cleveland’s baking powder 84 per cent. stronger than the highest 
and 17 per cent. stronger than the average of cream of tartar 
baking powders.—See Official Report of Ohio Food Commission. 


20 CLEVELAND’s Bakina PowpsEr, Purz aND SuRE. 


Oyster Fritters. — Chop one pint of oysters. Take one pint of milk, 
a little salt and pepper, one small teaspoonful Cleveland’s Superior Baking 
Powder, and flour enough to make a thin batter. Stir in the oysters, drop 
from the spoon in hot lard or butter and fry a delicate brown 


Rice Croquettes.— Boil one-half cup of rice very soft, when cold 
beat in two eggs, two spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt. Form in- 
to balls, dust a little flour over, roll in egg and fry. 


Sausage Roll.—Make dough as for baking powder biscuit. Roll 
and cut into pieces four inches wide and twice as long. Take fine sausage, 
put two or more pieces in the doughand rollup. Press the ends together 
and bake half an hour. 


Sweet-bread Croquettes. — Boil insalted water twenty minutes 
two pairs sweet-breads. Throw them into cold water for a few minutes, 


remove the skins and little pipes. Cut them into dice, also one-half box 
mushrooms. Put one large tablespoonful butter into a saucepan, when it 
bubbles add one tablespoonful flour; cook well, and add one gill cream or 
soup stock. Cook and add sweet-breadsand mushrooms. Heat well, take 
from fire, and add beaten yolks of two eggs. When cool form into cro- 
quettes, roll in beaten egg and cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 


SALADS. 


“To make a perfect salad there should be a spendthrift for oil, a miser Jor 
vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the ingredients up and mix 
them well together.”” —SPANISH PROVERB. 


Cabbage Salad.—Two large raw eggs, well beaten, six tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, one-half teaspoonful salt, six teaspoonfuls of vinegar and a 
small piece of butter. Put on the fire and cook, stirring constantly until 
quite thick. Have a half head of cabbage chopped fine, sprinkled with 
salt. Add to the dressing when cold, two tablespoonfuls of cream and 
pour over the cabbage. f 


“I have used Cleveland's baking powder for several years because 
I have found it what it claims to be, pure and wholesome. The 
results have been uniformly satisfactory.” 


uthor Boston Cook Book, 


6 


SALADS. 91 


Egg Salad.—Twelve hard boiled eggs, one-half pint cream, butter 
the size of an egg, a little parsley chopped fine, one tablespoonful of flour. 
Take cream, butter, parsley and flour, mix and cook until thick. Slice the 
eggs, and after each layer of eggs, add one of bread crumbs, over which 
pour the cream to cover. When the dish is full, bake till brown. Garnish 
with parsley and serve hot. 


Lobster Salad. — Cut the meat of two small lobsters into small pieces. 
Add a little of the fat and coral. Then season with salt and pepper, and 
pour over enough mayonnaise dressing to moisten well. Put in the middle 
of a platter, garnish with lettuce leaves, pour over the remainder of the 
dressing, and put slices of boiled egg, and olives over the top. 


Oyster Salad.—Let fifty small oysters just come to a boil in their 
own liquor. Skimand strain. Season the oysters with three tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, one of oil, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth teaspoonful 
of pepper, and place on ice for two hours. With a sharp knife cut up a 
pint of celery, using only the tender part, and when ready to serve, mix 
with the oysters, adding about one-half pint of mayonnaise dressing. Ar- 
range in a salad dish. Pour over another one-half pint of dressing, and 


garnish with white celery leaves. 


Potato Salad.—One quart of potatoes, boiled with skins on, one 
small white onion, two teaspoonfuls of olive oil, pepper and salt, and a 
little parsley, one-half cup of weak vinegar. After potatoes are cold cut 
up in small pieces. Chop the onion and parsley fine and mix all together, 


German Potato Salad.— Boil six good sized potatoes, peel and 
slice while hot, and pour over the following. Cut one-half pound lean ba- 
con in small dice and fry brown. Season potatoes with salt, pepper, and 
finely sliced onion. Mix thoroughly with the bacon fat and dice, and then 
add one-half cup white vinegar. Garnish with sliced hard boiled eggs. 


Conrad’s Sweet Potato Salad. — Boil three large sweet pota- 
toes. Cut into half inch squares. Cut into very small pieces two stalks 
of celery. Season with salt and pepper, and pour over a French dressing 
made as follows: Three tablespoonfuls salad oil, two of vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful onion juice, one salt spoon each salt and pepper. Let salad stand 
in refrigerator two hours. Garnish with pickles, jutted olives and parsley. 


Sardine Salad. -— For one large box of sardines, take six hard boiled 
eggs, drain off the oil from the fish, remove backbone, tail and skin, and 
mix thoroughly with the eggs, minced fine; season with pepper and salt. 
Serve plain, with vinegar, or mayonnaise dressing. 


Shrimp Salad.—Onecan shrimps. Washandcutinhalves. Make 
a dressing of two eggs, whites beaten first then yolks added, one tablespoon- 
ful salad oil added slowly, one teaspoonful each salt and pepper, one-half 


Reading, Mass. ‘1 have used Cleveland’s baking powder for a 
long time and think it is the best that is made. I would not use 
any other.”—Mrs. EF. E. W. 


99 OLEVELAND’s Baxine PowpeEr, PURE AND SuRkg. 


cup vinegar, a little made mustard. Stir all together on stove until it 
thickens, and when cold pour over the shrimps, to which has been added 
celery or finely cut lettuce. 


French Dressing. —One tablespoonful of vinegar, three of olive 
oil, one saltspoontul of salt, one of pepper, and a little scraped onion, if 


desired. : , 
Lettuce Dressing (without oil). — One-half pint cream or rich 


milk, one-half pint good vinegar (weak), one small teacup sugar, three 
eggs well beaten, a lump of butter size of an egg, one teaspoonful ground 
mustard. Pepper and salt. Mix all together cold, and cook until thick as 


custard. 


Mayonnaise Dressing.—The yolks of three raw eggs. Beatin 
very slowly, (drop by drop at first ) from a third to a half bottle of olive oil. 


The secret of thickening is in beating it in gradually. Add one teaspoon- 
ful of thick mixed mustard, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of salt, one large 
tablespoonful of Taragon vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar. 
This mixture will keep several days in a cool place. 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 2.—Put the yolk of an egg into a 
bowl with asaltspoontul of salt, and beat until light ; then add half a tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard, and beatagain. Then add olive oil, drop by drop, 
until it is thickening, then a few drops of vinegar, and the same of lemon 
juice. Continue this process until the egg has absorbed a little more then a 
gill of oil ; finish by adding a very little cayenne pepper. 

Salad Dressing. — Put the yolks of two eggs in a plate, one tea- 
spoonful of mustard that has been mixed with vinegar, salt to taste, a 
thought of cayenne pepper. With a silver fork stir in oil, drop by drop, 
till the mixture can be almost lifted from the plate. Then add very strong 
vinegar, (a small quantity if you wish the dressing to be thick,) then beat 
the whites of the two eggs and stir ito the dressing just before it is put on 
the salad. 


FISH AND MEAT SAUCKS. 


Drawn Butter. — One-half cup butter, rubbed well with two table- 
spoonfuls flour; put into a saucepan with about one pint boiling water, 
stirring constantly until well melted. Throw in asprig of parsley and serve 
at once. 


Egg Sauce.—To drawn butter sauce, add three hard boiled eggs, 
chopped. 


Bechamel Sauce.—Melt a tablespoonfvl of butter in a saucepan 
and when melted stir in an equal quantity of flour; cook thoroughly, 
being careful not to allow it to scorch; add one half pint each of rich 
cream and yeal stock ; season with pepper, salt and nutmeg to taste; add 
three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and the yelks of three eggs well 
beaten. Stir until hot, but do not let it boil, 


Fish aND Meat Savcgs. 23 


Hollandaise Sauce (for fish). —Rub one-half cup butter to a 
cream. Add the yolks of two eggs one at a time, and beat well. Stir in 
the juice of half a lemon, one saltspoon salt, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 
When ready to serve, add one-half cup boiling water, place the bowlina 
pan of boiling water or in the top of teakettle and cook until thick as cust- 
ard stirring all the time. 


Mint Sauce. —One-fourth pint of vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of 
chopped mint, and two of sugar. Let stand for an hour or more before 
using. 


Oyster Sauce.—To drawn butter sauce, add a few small oysters 
draimed from their liquor, and a few drops of vinegar or lemon. Let come 
to a boil and serve. 


Tartare Sauce. -— Make a mayonnaise dressing after receipt No. 2. 
and add one tablespoonful finely chopped Gherkins pickles. 


Tomato Sauce.—One quart can of tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, two of flour, two cloves, and a small slice of onion. Cook toma- 
toes, onion and cloves ten minutes, heat the butter inasmall frying pan, and 
add the flour ; when smooth and brown, stir into the tomato and cook ten 
minutes ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and rub through a strainer. 
Nice for fish, meat, or macaroni. 


PUDDINGS. 


“The proof of the pudding is in the eating.” 


Albany Pudding. — Grease a bowl thick with butter, put seeded 
raisins around it, then line with bread. Make a custard, pour in, bake, and 
eat with liquid sauce. 


Apple Pudding. — Fill a buttered baking dish with sliced apples 
and pour over the top a batter made of one tablespoonful of butter, one- 
half cup of sugar, one egg, one-half cup of sweet milk, and one cup of flour 
in which has been sifted one teaspoonful of Cleveland’s Superior Baking 
Powder. Bake in a moderate oven till brown. Serve with cream and 
sugar, or liquid sauce. Peaches are very nice served in the same way. 


Apple Tapioca Pudding. —Soak a cup of tapioca in water three 
or four hours. Pare and core eight or ten apples, fill the holes with sugar 


and stick a clove or twoin each apple. Pour the tapioca over them as they 


 Cleveland’s Superior baking powder is the purest first-class 
cream of tartar baking powder I have ever met.” 


State Assayer of Rhode 
Island. 


24 OCLEeveLAND’s BAKING PowDER, PurRE AND SURE. 


are placed in the pudding dish, and bake till the apples are thoroughly 
done. Be careful not to have the tapioca too thick. Eat with milk or 
cream. Excellent for the sick. 


Baked Apple Dumplings. — One quart flour, two teaspoonfuls 
Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, one-half teaspoonful salt mixed well 


together. Add one large tablespoonful butter and lard mixed, and enough 
sweet milk or water to make a soft dough. Roll out into half-inch sheets. 
Peel and quarter some good tart apples. Put each quarter on a square of 
dough, sprinkle over it sugar, and press the edges together firmly. Place 
in a deep pan, sprinkle over sugar and a little cinnamon, and put a bit of 
butter on each. Fill the pan with water (boiling) just leaving top of dump- 
lings uncovered, then bake forty-five minutes. Serve with sweetened 
cream or hard sauce. 


Dutch Appte Pudding. —One pint Jour, one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls Cleyeland’s Superior Baking Powder, one-half teaspoonful salt. 


Rub one-quarter cup butter into the flour, beat one egg light, add to it 
three-quarters cup cold water, and stir into the flour. Spread in wel] but- 
tered shallow pans. Pare, core and quarter four or five sour apples, place 
them on the dough, and sprinkle over them two tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Bake twenty or thirty minutes. Serye at once with lemon sauce. 


Steamed Berry Pudding.—One cup of sugar, two eggs, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, two cups 
of flour, one cup of sweet milk, two cups of berries. Steam about two hours. 


Boston Pudding.—One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter or one- 
quarter pound suet minced, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, two tablespoonfuls molas- 
ses, one cup seeded raisins, a littlesalt. Boilfour hours. One pint of milk 
can be used instead of one cup, with bread crumbs soaked 1n it, and only one 
cup flour. Serve with rich liquid sauce. 


Brown Betty.—Grease a pudding dish, and place in the bottoma 
layer of bread crumbs. Then nearly fill the dish with alternate layers of 
bread crumbs, and chopped, or sliced apples, strewing brown sugar, cin- 
namon, and a little butter, over each layer, topping off with crumbs. 
Bake one hour, and serve with hard sauce. 


Cherry or Blackberry Bread. —Stew cherries or blackberries, 
and sweeten to taste. Butter some slices of stale bread with crusts cut off. 


Then put a layer of the buttered bread in the bottom of serving dish and 
pour over it hot stewed fruit. Repeat until dish is fullor fruit used. To 
be eaten cold, with cream. 


Chocolate Pudding.—One pint milk, one pint bread crumbs, 
yolks of three eggs, five tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. Scald the milk, 
add breadcrumbs and chocolate. Take from fire and add one-half cup 


The very lightest and best apple dumplings dire nade with 
land's Superior Baking Powder. a a aie 


= ) PuppINGs. 25 


sugar, and the beaten yolks. Bake in pudding dish fifteen minutes. Make 
meringue of whites of eggs and three tablespoontuls sugar, spread over 
pudding, and brown. Serve cold with cream. 


Christmas Pudding. (Plain.)—Two quarts stale bread without 
crust. Break in small pieces, and put in slowoyen to dry not brown. Pour 
over the dried crumbs two quarts of milk, let soak one hour. Then beat 
well, add six beaten eggs, a cup each sugar and molasses, a cup minced 
suet or two-thirds cup butter, one and a half pounds seeded raisins, a tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful each cloves and mace, half a 
grated nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls salt. Butter a large pudding dish, pour 
in pudding, and bake in slow oyen three or four hours, covering to keep 
from getting too brown. Serve with wine sauce. 


Cocoanut Pudding. — Take the meat of a cocoanut from the shell, 
removing the dark outside, grate and stir in four well beaten eggs; add 
one quart of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of butter, two 
large tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half of a grated nutmeg, one teaspoon- 
ful of essence of lemon or peach water ; line a buttered dish with pie paste, 
rolled very thin, pour in the pudding, and bake in a hot oyen one hour. 
Serve with sauce. 


Cottage Pudding. — One eup of milk, one-half cup of sugar, one 
egg, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one teaspoonful of Cleyeland’s 
Superior Baking Powder sifted with one pint flour. Bake half an hour, 
and serve with liquid sauce. 


Cracker Pudding.—One quart of scalded milk, five tablespoon- 
fuls of rolled cracker, small piece of butter, four eggs; bake one-half hour, 
and serve with any kind of sweet sauce. 


Delmonico Pudding.—One quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls 
cornstarch mixed with a little cold milk, the yolk of five eggs beaten with 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil three or four minutes. Pour m a pud- 
ding dish and bake about one-half hour.’ Beat the whites of the eggs with 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar; spread over the top, and return the pudding 
to the oven until it 1s a delicate brown. 


English Plum Pudding. — Two pounds raisins, seeded; two 
pounds currants well washed; one-half pound sliced citron; two pounds 


bread crumbs ;. two pounds chopped suet; juice and grated rind of three 
lemons; six eggs, beaten; two pounds light brown sugar ; four grated nut- 
megs; one tablespoonful salt; milk. Mix all the fruit thoroughly, then add 
eggs and milk, a little at a time, adding carefully to make it moist enough 
to stick together, not wet. Fill bowls the desired size, even full, cover with 
cloths tied over tightly, and boil steadily eight hours. When wanted for 


“ T use Cleveland's baking powder in my kitchen and class work.” 


Principal Chautauqua $ $ D iP ~ 
Cooking School. e 4 


96  CLEVELAND’s BAKING POWDER, Purr AND SURE. o 


use, boil one hour. Serve with ice cream and rich wine sauce. Will keep 


all winter. 

Favorite Pudding. —One cup sugar, one cup milk, one egg, two. 
cups flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking 
Powder. Flavor with nutmeg. Put in the bottom of a pudding dish two 
cups sliced apples, peaches peeled and halved, cherries or any fruit de- 
sired, then pour over the mixture and bake. When done turn on to serv- 
ing dish, fruit side up. Serve with liquid sauce. 


Fig Pudding. — One-fourth pound figs chopped fine, two cups bread 
crumbs, one cup brown sugar, one-fourth pound suet chopped fine, two 
eggs, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, one dessert spoonful of 
molasses, one-half grated nutmeg, one tablespoonful flour. Steam three 
hours and serve with boiled sauce, flavored with lemon. 


Fruit Puff Pudding. — Mix well one pint flour, one and one-half 
teaspoonfuis Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder and a little salt. Make 
into a soft batter with milk. Put into well greased cups a spoonful of bat- 
ter, then one of strawberries, or any fruit preferred, then another of 
batter. Steam twenty minutes. Serve with liquid sauce. 


Graham Pudding.—Two and a half cups graham flour, one cup 
miik, one cup molasses, one cup currants or seeded raisins, two small tea- 
spoonfuls soda, and a little salt. Steam two hours. Serve with lemon or 
wine sauce. : 


Frosted Lemon Pudding. — One pint of bread crumbs, one quart 
of milk, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, the yolks of three eggs; 
sweeten to taste. When baked, cover with jelly ; make a frosting with the 
whites of the eggs, pour over the top, and set in the oven a few minutes 
to brown. j 


Orange Pudding. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup of rolled crack- 
er, two eggs, one-half tablespoonfvl of butter, one orange, grate the rind 
and squeeze the juice, one quart of milk. Bake like a custard; serve cold. 


Orange Snow Pudding. — One-half package gelatine, three gills 
orange juice, a generous cup sugar, three gills water, whites of six eggs. 
Soak gelatine in one gill cold water two hours, then pour over it two gills 
boiling water. Add sugar and place bowl in pan of boiling water, stirring 
till gelatine dissolves. Add orange juice, strain into a large bowl, and set 
away tocool. When beginning to stiffen, add unbeaten whites, place the 
bow] in ice water, and beat until white and thick. Pour into molds to 
stiffen, and serve with Custard Sauce.—One pint and one gill milk, one-third 
cup sugar, grated rind of one orange, and a little salt. Put one pint milk 
in double, add grated rind, and heat. Beat yolks and sugar together, add 
one gill cold milk. Pour over this the hot milk, stir well, return to double 
boiler and boil five minutes. 


Our Guarantee. We authorize grocers to give you back you 
money if you do not find Cleveland’s baking pone se aid 
represented, —Cleveland Baking Powder Co., New York. 


f 
e PUDDINGS, QF 


Peach Cottage Pudding. —Stir sliced peaches into a batter 
made of one-half cup sugar, three tablespoonfuls melted butter, one beaten 
egg, one cup milk, one pint flour, and one and one-half teaspoonfuls 


Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder. Bake in a loaf, and serve with 
hard sauce. 


Delicious Peach Pudding. —Fill a pudding dish with whole 
peeled peaches, and pour over them twocups water. Cover closely, and 
bake until peaches are tender, then drain off the juice from the peaches, 
and let it stand until cool. Add to the juice one pint sweet milk, four well 
beaten eggs, asmall cup flour with one teaspoonful Cleveland’s Superior 
Baking Powder mixed in it, one cup sugar, one tablespoonful melted 
butter and a little salt. Beat well three or four minutes, and pour over 
peaches in dish. Bake until a rich brown, and serve with cream. 


Poor Man’s Pudding. — One cup of sweet or sour milk, one cup 
of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one pound of raisins, two eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, flour sufficient to make 
as thick as cake. Boil four hours without stopping in a floured bag or 
mould, allowing room to swell. To be eaten with sauce. 


Prune Pudding. — One pound stewed prunes, whites of four eggs, 
one cup sugar. ‘After the prunes are stewed, drain off the juice, remove 
the stones, and chop. Beat the eggs very stiff, add the sugar gradually, 
beating all the time, then stir in the chopped prunes. Bake twenty 
minutes. Serve cold with whipped cream flavored with wine. 


Queen of Puddings. — One pint of fine bread crumbs, one quart 

of milk, one cup of sugar, the yolks of four eggs beaten, grated rind of one 

a lemon, butter the size of anegg. Bake untildone. Whip the whites of the 
eggs stiff, and beat in a cup full of sugar in which has been stirred the juice 

of the lemon. Spread on the pudding a layer of jelly or jam. Pour the 
whites of the eggs over this and replace in the oven until slightly browned. 


Rice Pudding. —Take one teacup of rice, wash, pour boiling water 
over and let stand five minutes; throw off, add a cup of sugar, a little nut- 
meg and two guarts of milk. Bake slowly about two hours, stirring occa- 
sionally until last half hour, then brown. 


Snow Pudding. — Dissolve one-half box of gelatine in one pint of 
cold water ; when soft, add one pint of boiling water, the grated rind and 
juice of two lemons, and two and one-half cups of sugar. Let stand until 
cold and begins to stiffen. Then beat in the whites of five eggs, well beaten. 
Pour into a mould and set onice. Serve with custard sauce. — One quart of 
rich milk, the yolks of five eggs, with two extra eggs added, one-half cup 
of sugar. Flavor with vanilla. 


It is the best, it's always pure, 
Always the same and always sure. 
Cleveland's Baking Powder. 


98 CLEvELAND’s Baxina PowpEr, Purm AND SuRg. 


Spanish Toast.— Take stale bread, cul in thick pieces, and dip in 
egg with milk prepared like custard but without sweetening or flavoring. 
When the slices are well saturated, fry in a very little butter, enough to 
prevent adhering to the pan. Serve immediately with a wine sauce. 


Sponge Pudding.—The yolks of three eggs, four tablespoonfuls 
of Jour, one and one-half pints of milk, a little salt. Stir the milk, seald- 
ing hot, into the flour and then the yolks. When ready to put into the 
oven, add the whites beaten to a froth; bake one-half hour, and serve 
immediately. 


Suet Pudding. — Two eggs, one cup milk, one-half cup of molasses, 
one-half cup of suet chopped fine, one teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoon- 
fuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder sifted in three small cups of 
flour, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and as much fruit (stoned raisins and cit- 
ron) as you like. Steam two hours. Sauce—one-half cup of butter, two 
cups of sugar, alittle boiling water anda little nutmeg, beaten well together. 


Blueberry Shortcake.—One anda half cups of butter, one cup 
of sugar, two eggs, one cup of sweet milk, three and one-half cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, one pint of 
berries, washed. If eaten hot, make,asauce of cream and sugar, or simply 
sugar over. 


Plain Strawberry Shortcake.— Make a crust with one-half 
more shortening than for biscuit. Roll in two sheets. Spread the under 


one with butter, place the other on top and bake. When baked, separate 
Jayers and place mashed and sweetened fruit between and on top. Or the 
crust can be baked in one piece and split and buttered after baking. Pearh, 
orange, apple and rhubarb shorteakes are very nice. Serve with cream. 


Sweet Shortcake.—Beat a lump of butter size of an egg to a 
cream, add one cup sugar, two eggs whites and yolks beaten separately, 
one cupsweet milk, one and one-half teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior 
Baking Powder, and flour enough to make as stiff as cake. Bake in two 
jelly tins,and spread mashed sweetened strawberries between layers, and 
on top whole berries with sugar sprinkled over them. Serye with mashed 
berries, sweetened. 


- 


Tapioca Pudding.—An even tablespoonful tapioca, soaked two 
hours in nearly a cup of milk. Stir into this the yolk of one egg, a little 
salt, and sugar to taste. Bake fifteen minutes. Beat white stiff, sweeten 
and spread over. Eat with hard sauce if hot, or with cream if cold. 


Venoise Puddi ng.—Fiv2 ounces of bread crumbs, four ounces of 
sugar, three ounces of raisins, two ounces of citron, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla, one-haif pint of milk, the yolks of four eggs, one ounce of brown 


The ideal strawberry shortcake is made with Cleveland’s Supe- 
rior Baking Powder. 


PuDDINGS. 99 


sugar; add the milk to this, pour over the yolks, add the vanilla last, and 
steam one hour and twenty minutes. 


Whortleberry Pudding. — Rub thoroughly one-half cup of but- 
ter with one and one-half cups of sugar; add one cup of sweet milk, two 
eggs, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking 
Powder. After adding one cup of the flour, stir in one pint of berries, 
then the remainder of the flour. To be eaten hot, with hard sauce. 


PUDDING SAUCES. 


Cream Sauce (with wine.)— One-quarter cup butter creamed with © 
one-half cup powdered sugar. Just before serving, add two tablespoonfuls 
white wine, one teaspoonful vanilla, and two tablespoonfuls cream. 


Substitute for Cream.-— Boil three-fourths of a pint of sweet 
milk ; beat the yolk of one egg, and a level teaspoonful of flour with sugar 
enough to make the cream very sweet. When the milk boils, stir this into 
it, and let it cool; flavor to taste. For puddings in which eggs are used, this 
is almost as good as rich cream, and preferable to thin cream. 


Excellent Pudding Sauce. —Two coffee-cups sugar, three- 
fourths of a coffee-cup of butter. Rubtoacream. When well mixed, stir in 


one-half tea-cup boiled cider, alittle atatime. Just before serving, setina 
kettle of boiling water until hot, but not boiling. 


Fruit Sauce, — Take one quart of any kind of ripe fruit, as red rasp- 
berries, strawberries, or peaches; if the latter they must be very ripe. 
Pare and mash the fruit with a potato masher. Add one tablespoonful of 
melted butter and one cup of powdered sugar. Stir well together, and set 
on the fire until warm. 


Hard Sauce, — One-half cup of butter well beaten; stir in slowiy, 
one cup of fine sugar, and beat toacream. Pile on a plate and grate over 
a little nutmeg. Keep cool. 


Lemon Sauce. — Three-fourths cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one egg, the juice and half the grated rind of one lemon, one teaspoonful 
of nutmeg, and one-half cup of boiling water. Cream the butter and 
sugar and beat in the egg, whipped light, the lemon and nutmeg. Beat 
hard, then add the water, put into a tin pail, and set within the uncovered 
top of the tea-kettle, which must boil, until the sauce is very hot, but not 
boiling. Stir constantly. 


“ Cleveland’s Superior is absolutely 
the best and most desirable baking 
powder manufactured.” 
Late Ohio Dairy and Food 


Commissioner. 


| 
lj ; 
30 ©Orevenann’s Baxtne Powper, Pure anp Surg. 


Lemon Sauce No. 2.—One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, 
- one egg, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, one tablespoonful of corn- 
starch, one cup of boiling water. Boil together a few moments and serve. 
This is very nice, and may be made by adding one-half cup of milk or 
-pream. But when either milk or cream is used, the butter should be omit- 
ted, and the milk should first be thickened with the corn-starch. 


Plain Sauce.—One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar 
_ rubbed to a cream. Add two well beaten eggs, and just before serving add 
enough boiling water to make a thick cream. Flavor with vanilla. 
i 
i 


Strawberry Sauce.— One large tablespoonful butter beaten to a 

cream. Add gradually one and one-half cups powdered sugar, and the 

- beaten white of one egg. Beat till very light, and just before serving add 
4 one pint mashed strawberries. 


. Wine Sauce.—Three-quarters cup butter beaten to a cream, then 
add two cups powdered sugar. Beat well, and stir in one tablespoonful 
cornstarch wet in one-half cup cold water. Cook until thick, then add 
one-half cup wine. ‘ 


PIES. 


‘No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes, 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies.”” 
O. W. HOLMES. 


Pastry.— One cup shortening, lard and butter mixed; three cups flour; 
alittle salt. Sift the flour, add the salt, and rub in the shortening. Use 
| enough ice-water to hold all together, handling as little as possible. Roll 


a ee 


from you. One-third the quantity given is enough for one pie. 


Pastry with Baking Powder.—One and one-half cups flour; 
one saltspoon salt; one saltspoon Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder ; 
one-third to one-half cup butter and lard mixed. 


' Real Puff Paste.—One pound of butter, one pound of flour; wash 
the salt out of the butter; mix the flour with a little ice-water, and salt; 
roll on the board and fold in the butter; roll very thin and keep cool, cut- 
ting with a knife. 


Sliced Apple Pie. —Line a pie plate with pastry and fill with sliced 
tart apples. Sprinkle two tablespoonfuls sugar and grate a little nutmeg 
over the apples. Cover with a sheet of pastry with openings cut for the 

“T am convinced Cleveland's is the purest powder made, and I 
have adopted it exclusively in my cooking schools and for daily 


household use.” 
Principal Philadelphia Cook- 
ing School and Editor of 
‘ Household News,” . SLEALW. 


PIES. 31 


escape of steam. Wet the edge of the under crust before putting on the 
upper, and then pinch the two edges together. 


Cocoan ut Pie.—One grated cocoanut, one quart of milk heated to 
boiling and poured over the grated nut, two tablespoonfuls of butter, four 
eggs, sugar to taste. This makes two pies. 


Currant Pie. — Short Paste.— One pound of flour, one-half pound 
of butter, two ounces of finely powdered loaf sugar, a pinch of salt, one 
tablespoonful of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder. Mix the-powder, 
flour, sugar and salt thoroughly together, then rub well in the butter, and 
make into a stiff paste by adding a little milk; roll out once, very thin. 

Fruit.—One pint of currants, the yolk of one or two eggs ; sweeten to 
taste. The white may be used for meringue, if desired. 


Custard Pie. --Four eggs, one quart of milk, a little salt, and one- 
half cup of sugar. Bake with under crust only. 


Lemon Pie.—Three quarters cup sugar, one teaspoonful flour, yolks 
of three and white of one egg, well beaten; the juice and grated rind 
of one lemon; one-half cup ice-water. Bake in a moderate oven, and 
cover with meringue of the two whites and one-half cup powdered sugar. 
Brown. 


Lemon Pie.—The juice and grated rind of two lemons, two cups 
of powdered sugar, a small piece of melted butter, two eggs. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs and the sugar together until very light. Beat the 
whites to 4 froth, and stir in last. Bake with rich under crust. 


Lemon Pie with Raisins. — Take three good sized lemons, and 
roll till soft ; put thé juice in a dish, picking out the seeds, an% chop the 
peel very fine. Seed and chop a cupful of raisins, and mix all together 
with one and one-half cups of molasses; stir well, and add a little flour 
and water. Do not hurry the baking or it willrun out. This makes two 
pies. Bake with two crusts. 


Old Fashioned Mince-meat.—Take four pounds of tender 
beef, three pounds of suet, eight pounds of chopped greening apples, three 
pounds of currants, washed, dried and picked; three pounds of seeded 
raisins, six pounds of white sugar (brown will do), two pounds citron, cut 
thin; the grating, juice and pulp of two large oranges; the juice and 
grated rinds of four lemons; one ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce 
each of cloves, mace and allspice, the grating of four nutmegs, one quart 
of Madiera wine, one pint of brandy, a cupful of strawberry or raspberry 
jam and quince preserves. Boil the meat in the smallest possible amount 
of water ; chopvery fine. After removing the membrane from suet, dredge 
with flour and chop very fine ; mix it through the meat with salt to remove 
fresh taste. To this add the apples, the sugar, fruit, spice and other ingre- 


3 . ay . \ 
Your own experience, better than anybody's * say-so,” will tell you 
Cleveland's Baking Powder is strongest and best. 


| 
d 


\) 


32 CieveLann’s Baxina Powper, Pure AND SURE. 


dients. A little sweet cider or molasses and plenty of salt must be added, 
This is not to be cooked. Half of this makes a large quantity. 


Mince Pie.—Two pounds fresh lean beef, boiled, and chopped fine 
when cold; one pound suet chopped very fine, five pounds chopped apples, 
one pound seeded raisins, two pounds currants, three-quarters pound sliced 
citron, one and one-half teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one grated nutmeg, two 
tablespoonfuls ground mace, one tablespoonful each ground cloves, allspice 
and fine salt, two and one-half pounds brown sugar, one quart brown sherry 


and one pint brandy. Let stand twenty-four hours before using. 


Mince Pie. — Boil until tender about four pounds of lean beef, remove 
all gristle and bone while warm. When cold chop fine and add chopped 
apples (in the proportion of two bowls to one of meat), one and one-half 


cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, two dessert-spoonfuls each of cloves, 
cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg, one-half pound of suet chopped fine, one 


quart of boiled cider, one pound each of raisins and currants, one-fourth 
pound of citron chopped fine and a small piece of butter. 


Orange Pie.—Three eggs, three-quarters cup sugar, one orange, 
juice and half grated rind; half a lemon, juice and grated peel; a little 
nutmeg. Cream, butter and sugar, beat in the orange and lemon, add the 
beaten eggs, saving the whites of two. Line a pie plate with rich crust, 
pour in this mixture and bake. Beat the whites with two tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar, spread over the pie when done, and brown lightly. 


Orange Pie.—The juice and grated rind of two oranges, four eggs, 
four tablespoontuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter. Cream the butter 
and sugar, add the beaten yolks of the eggs, then the oranges, and lastly, the 
whites beaten toa froth, and mixedin lightly. Bakewith an under crust only. 


Peach Pie. — Line a pie plate with good pastry, and fill with peaches 
peeled and halved. Sprinkle the fruit with half acup of sugar, and sift over 
one tablespoonful flour. If the fruit is not juicy, use less flour, and a few 
bits of butter. Bake untill the peaches are done. 


Pumpkin Pie.—Pare and cut the pumpkin in small pieces. Cook 


slowly in about one-fourth as much water as pumpkin, six hours. When it 


has cooked four hours, add one-half cup molasses to three quarts raw 
pumpkin. When done rub through asieve. For one large pie take two 
and one-half cups strained pumpkin, one pint boiling milk, one-half cup 
sugar, one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, a little grated nut- 


meg and two eggs. Let the mixture cook before adding eggs. Bake in 


open pastry shells, three-quarters of an hour. 


Squash Pie.—One pint of squash, three eggs, one-half cup sugar, 
one and one-half tablespoonfuls of vanilla, a little nutmeg. Put the squash 
through a sieve, mix with a scant tablespoonful of corn-starch, and milk 
enough to make itsoft. Add the otheringredients, This makes one large pie. 


Cleveland’s baking powder is always sure. No spoiled dough 
to be thrown away. 


DESSERTS. 33 
DESSERTS 


‘Ant please your Honour,” quoth the Peasant, 


“This same dessert is very pleasant.”’ 
POPE. 


Apple Snow. — Peel and grate one large sour apple, sprinkling over 
it a small cupful of powdered sugar as you grate it, to keep it from turning 
dark. Break into this the whites of two eggs and beat it all constantly for 
half an hour. Take care to have it in a large bow] as it beats up very stiff 
and light. Heap this in a glass dish and pour a fine smooth custard around 
it and serve. A very delicate dessert. 


Charlotte Russe. — Soak one-quarter box gelatine in one-quarter 
cup cold water. Line a pint mold with lady fingers. Chill and whip one 
pintcream. Set bowl in ice water. Sift over the whipped cream one-third 
cup powdered sugar, add one teaspoonful vanilla and one tablespoonful 
white wine. Dissolve gelatine in one-quarter cup boiling water. Strain it 
into the cream‘and beat rapidly. When nearly stiff pour into molds and 
set away to cool. 


Charlotte Russe No. 2.—One pound of lady fingers, one quart 
of sweet cream, three-fourths of a cup of powdered sugar, two teaspoonfuls 
of vanilla. Split and trim the cakes, and fit neatly in the bottom and sides 
of two quart molds. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, after it has been 
sweetened and flavored ; fill the molds, lay the cakes closely together on 
the top, and seton ice till needed. The edges of the cake may be moistened 
with a little jelly, that the shape may be more easily retained. 


Baked Custard. —One quart of milk, four beaten eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; flavor with lemon, vanilla, or nutmeg; salt. Bake 
slowly, and do not let it remain too long in the oven. 


Custard Souffle. — Rub two scant tablespoonfuls butter to a cream, 
add two scant tablespoonfuls flour. Pour over this gradually one cup hot 
milk, and cook eight minutes in a double boiler, stirring often. Beat yolks 
of four eggs, add two tablespoonfuls sugar, stir into the milk and set away 
to cool. Half an hour before serving, beat whites of four eggs stiff, and 
add to mixture lightly. Bake in buttered pudding dish in a moderate oven 
thirty-six minutes. Serve at once. 


Bavarian Cream.— Whites of six eggs, beaten very light, one 
quart whipped cream, one ounce gelatine (soak one hour in cold water, 
<1 do not hesitate to recommend Cleveland's baking powder as 
worthy of public confidence for producing light, digest ible and 
wholesome bread.” 


State Assayer of Mass. 


CE —— 


84 CLEvELAND’s Baxtna Powper, Purr anp SURE. 


drain, and dissolve in a little hot water), flavor with one teaspoonful vanilla. 
Beat eggs and cream together, add sugar to sweeten, flavor, then add gela- 
tine. Beat until it begins to thicken, and pour into molds. Serve very 
cold with cream, 


Bohemian Cream. — One quart cream, two tablespoonfuls sugar, 
one ounce gelatine, dissolved. Whip half the cream to a stiff froth. Boil 
the other half with the sugar anda vanilla bean until flavor is extracted, 
or add vanilla extract after it is removed from the fire. Add the gelatine, 
and when cooled a little, the well beaten yolks of four eggs. Beat until it 
begins to stiffen, then beat in quickly the whipped-cream. Pour in well 
wet molds and set on ice. 


Russian Cream. -— Four eggs, one cup sugar, one quart milk, one- 
half box gelatine dissolved in one pint warm water. Beat yolks of eggs, 
add sugar, cook with the milk like custard. Take off stove, add beaten 
whites, stir well for a few moments. Add gelatine and a teaspoonful 
strained lemon juice. Pour into well wet mold, and set on ice to harden. 
Serve with whipped or plain cream. 


Spanish Cream, — One-half box of gelatine, one quart of milk, 
yolks of three eggs, one small cup of sugar; soak the gelatine in the milk 
for an hour, then put on the fire and stir well as it warms; beat the yolks 
very light with the sugar, add to the scalding milk and heat to boiling 
point, stirring all the time. Strain into a mold and flavor with vanilla. 

Sauce — Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, flayor with vanilla. 


Strawberry Cream.—Mash one quart strawberries with one cup 
powdered sugar, and rub through a hair sieve. Dissolve one and one-half 
ounces gelatine in one pint sweet milk. Strain and add one pint whipped 
cream, and the berry juice. Pour in a wet mold, and set on ice to form. 
Another way.— One quart strawberries rubbed through a hair sieve, mix 
with three pints rich cream, and sweeten. Whip to a froth, add one-half 
ounce dissolved gelatine. Serve in glasses. 


Strawberry or Raspberry Sponge. — One quart strawberries 
or raspberries, one-half box gelatine, one and one-half cups water, one 


cup sugar, juice of one lemon, beaten whites of four eggs. Soak gelatine 
in one-half cup of the water. Mash the berries and add half the sugar to 
them. Boilthe remainder of sugar and the cup of water gently twenty 
minutes. Rub berries through a hairsieve. Add gelatine to boiling syrup, 
take from the fire and add berry juice. Place the bowl in pan of ice water, 
and beat with egg beater five minutes. Add beaten whites, and beat till it 
begins to thicken. Pour into well wet molds and set on ice, Serve with 
cream. Easily made and good. 


You get more for your money in buying Cleveland’s bakin der 
than any other, ake | it goes farther, lasts longer, and ae dot 
have to buy so often. 


DESSERTS. 35 


Floating isiland.—Make a custard of the yolks of six eggs, one 
quart milk, a pinch of salt, sugar to taste. Pour into a large dish. Beat 
whites to a stiff froth, and put by spoonfuls in boiling water, turn them 
carefully until cooked. Take out with askimmer, and put on top of cus- 
tard. Serve ice cold. 


Chocolate Ice Cream.—One quart cream, one pint milk, two 
cups sugar, two eggs beaten light, five tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, 
rubbed smooth in a little milk. Heat milk to near boiling, pour in slowly 
beaten eggs and sugar, then the chocolate. Cook until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Cool, beat in the cream, and freeze. 


Fruit Ice Cream, — One generous pint milk, two cups sugar, one 
‘small tablespoonful flour, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls gelatine soaked in 
a little cold water, one quart cream, four bananas, half a pound candied 
cherries, and other fruit 1f desired. Let milk come to a boil, beat flour, 
sugar and eggs together and stir in boiling milk. Cook twenty minutes, 
then add gelatine. When cold add cream. Put in freezer, freeze ten 
minutes, add cup of fruit, and finish freezing. 


Pine-apple Ice Cream.— Three pints cream, one pint milk, two 
ripe pine-apples, two pounds sugar. Slice pine-apples thin, scatter sugar 
over them, and let stand three hours. Cut or chop the fruit into the syrup, 
and strain through'a bag of coarse lace. Beat gradually into the cream, 
and freeze. Remove a few bits of pine-apple, and stir in cream when half 
frozen. Peach ice-cream made in the same way is delicious. 


Vanilla Ice Cream.—‘Two quarts rich cream, one pint new milk, 
one pound sugar and one teaspoonful vanilla. Mix well and freeze. 
Another way. — Put milk and one cut yanilla bean on fire and boil slowly. 
Strain through a wire sieve, and when cool add cream and sugar, and 
freeze. 


Frozen Milk Punch. — Freeze together one quart milk and one- 
half pound sugar. After the above is frozen, mix with it one-half pint rum, 
one-half pint brandy, one and one-half pints whipped cream and half of a 
nutmeg. 


Lemon Ice.— One quart water, one tablespoonful corn-starch ; boil 
till all taste of starch is gone. Add the lemon (two large lemons to a 
quart). Sweeten to taste when the mixture is cold, and leave the rind in 
for awhile. Strain through a sieve and freeze. 


Junket.—Sweeten to taste one quart fresh milk, stir in one table- 
spoonful liquid rennet, and pour into glass dish. Set near the stove where 
it will get warm, and assoon as it begins to thicken, set onice. Serve with 
preserves and cream. Excellent for invalids. 


It is unsafe to use the low priced, low grade so called baking 
powders. They are mostly made of alum, a caustic mineral acid, 
which makes the food wnwholesome. 


e< 


86 CiLEvELAND’s Baxinec Powper, Pure AnD SURE. 


Coffee Jelly. — One-half box of gelatine, one pint of strong coffee, 
three-fourths of a pound of sugar; pour the coffee over the gelatine; when 
dissolved, stir in the sugar, add one-half pint of boiling water, strain into 
molds and serve with whipped cream. 


Orange Jelly. — Dissolve one half box of gelatine in one-half cup 
of cold water; cut one-half dozen oranges in halves, remove the fruit care- 
fully and lay the skins in cold water. Add to the pulp of the oranges the 
juice of two lemons, one cup of sugar and one cup of boiling water. Stir 
all together and strain. Dry the inside of the skins, notch the edges, fill 
with the jelly, andstand on a tray until it beginsto firm. Put in acold place 
and serve with kisses or a white cake. 


Strawberry Jelly.—One quart strawberries, one large cup sugar, 
juice of one lemon, two-thirds package gelatine soaked in one cup cold 
water, one pint boiling water. Mash berries, and strain through coarse 
muslin. Mix sugar and lemon juice with soaked gelatine, pour over the 
boiling water, stir until clear, then strain through flannel bag. Add the 
strawberry juice, strain again, without squeezing the bag. Weta mold, 
with a cylinder in center, pour in the jelly and set on ice to form. When 
served, fill center with sweetened whipped cream. 


Tutti Frutti Jelly.—Soak one-half box gelatine in one-half pint 
cold water. Dissolve with one pint boiling water, add juice of three lemons, 
one and one-half cups sugar. Strain. When beginning to stiffen, puta 
layer of jelly in a dish, then a layer of sliced bananas, another layer of jelly, 
one of sliced oranges, one of jelly and one of grated cocoanut, and finish 
with jelly. A 


Orange Omelet. — Four eggs, five tablespoonfuls sugar, a little salt, 
two oranges, two tables oonfuls butter. Grate rind of one orange on one 
tablespoonful sugar. Pare and cut oranges in thin slices, and sprinkle 
with two tablespoonfuls sugar. Teat whites of eggs stifl, add the sugar 
and orange rind, salt, beaten yolks, and two tablespoonfuls orange juice. 
Put butter in a hot omelet pan, pour in the mixture. When it begins to 
thicken well, spread over the sliced oranges (no juice). Fold omelet from 
side of the pan over the sliced oranges, turn on a hot dish, put in the oven 
two minutes, and serve immediately. ‘ 


Pine-apple Sherbert. — One tablespoonful gelatine soaked in one 
cup cold water fifteen minutes. Dissolye with one cup boiling water. 
Take one-half can grated pime-apple, and one and one-half cups sugar, juice 
of one lemon. Add strained gelatine, put in freezer, and pack with ice 
and salt and freeze. 


No alum, no ammonia, no adulteration in Cleveland’s Baking 
Powder. It is a pure cream of tartar powder, which means no 
unwholesome food, no bitter taste, no failures. 


‘ 


DESSERTS. 87 


Frozen Peaches.—Take two quarts peaches, peeled and sliced, 
sprinkle with one pound of sugar and let stand two hours. Mash fine, add 
one quart cold water, and freeze the same as ice-cream. 


Steamed Rice.—One quart of sweet milk, two-thirds of a cup of 
uncooked rice, and a little salt. Put into cups, set in a steamer over boil- 
ing water, and cook until the rice is almost like jelly. When cold turn out 
of the cups, and serve with sugar and cream or with pudding sauce. 


Strawberry Sherbert.—One quart of berries mashed; sprinkle 
over these one pint of sugar, add the juice of one lemon, and a half pint of 
water in which has been dissolved a tablespoonful of gelatine. Freeze as 
you would ice-cream. 


Syllabu b.,—One quart cream, whites of four eggs, one glass white 
wine, two small cups powdered sugar. Whip half the sugar with cream, 
the remainder with eggs. Mix well, add the wine, and pour over sliced 
oranges and bananas sweetened. 


Tapioca Ice.— One cup of tapioca soaked over night; in the morn: 
ing put it on the stove, and when boiling hot add one cup of sugar, and 
boil till clear ; chop one pine-apple, pour the tapioca over it, stir together, 
and put into molds. When cold serve with sugar and cream. 


Lemon Tapioca.—Two tablespoonfuls of tapioca soaked over 
night in one-half cup of cold water. In the morning add one-half a cup of 
cold water, and the peeled rind of one lemon, Set on the stove and boil 
antil clear; take out the rind, add the juice of the lemon, and one tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract, one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of boiling 
water, a little salt, and boil up. Putin a mold to cool, and serve with 
sugar and cream. 


Fruit Tapioca.—Two tablespoonfuls of tapioca soaked over night 
in a little water; im the morning add one-half cup of sugar, one pint of 
milk, one egg. Heat the milk, add the tapioca and boil twenty minutes; 
beat the yolk of the egg, sugar, two teaspoonfuls of flour, and a little salt, 
stir into the milk, and boil five minutes. Pour into a dish, beat the white 
of the egg with one and one-half tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread over the 
top, and set in the oven a few minutes. Pare and slice bananas, peaches 
or oranges, lay in the bottom of a glass dish and sprinkle with sugar. Wet 
a knife, slip around the edge of pudding to loosen, and lay over the fruit. 


“I prefer Cleveland's baking powder because it is pure and whole- 
some, it takes less for the same baking, it never fails, and bread and 
cake keep their freshness. and flavor.” 


Lecturer on Cookery. Gatlin LEGS 


* 


388 CLEVELAND’s Bakina PowpsER, PuRE AND SURE. 


CAKE 


Aye, to the leavening, but here's yet in the word hereafter the kneading, the 
making of the cake, the heating of the oven, and the baking. Nay, you must 
stay the cooling, too, or you may chance to burn your mouth. — SHAKESPEARE, 


Almond Cake. — Three-quarters cup butter, one cup sugar, half cup 
sweet milk, three eggs whites and yolks beaten separately, two cups flour, 
two level teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, and one 
pound almonds blanched and sliced, stirred in last. Save a few whole ones 
to put on top of icing. 

Almond Cake.—Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, three- 
fourths cup of sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, three even cups of flour, 
one and one-half teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, 
two teaspoonfuls of bitter almond. 


Angel Cake. — Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half cups granu- 
lated sugar sifted once, one cup flour sifted with one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar four times, one teaspoonful vanilla. Bake in an ungreased pan forty 
minutes. When done invert pan on two cups and let stand until cake is 
cold. 


Angel Charlotte.—Make a loaf of Angel Cake as above. When 
cool cut out the center carefully leaving an outer wall of an inch or more. 
Fill with a Charlotte Russe (page 33), cover with a lid cut from top of cen- 
ter taken out, and ice the whole with a boiled icing (page 46). Scatter over 
this powdered macaroons or candied violets. 


Chocolate Cake.—One-half cup (scant) butter, creamed, one cup 
sugar, two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one-half cup sweet 
milk, two cu_s flour, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Pow- 
der. Boil together not quite one-quarter cake chocolate grated, one-half 
cup milk, yolk of one egg, one cup sugar and one teaspoonful vanilla. 
When cool add to the above mixture. Bake in jelly tins and put boiled icing 
between the layers. 


“* Food made with Cleveland’s baking powder keeps moist and 
Sresh, and in this respect it is superior to is powder I know.” 


Principal Philadelphia 
Cooking School, 


CAKE- 39 


Chocolate Layer Cake.—One cup of sugar, one-half cup of but- 
ter, two eggs, one-half cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls of Cleyeland’s Superior Baking Powder. 

Filling—One-half cake of chocolate, grated and dissolved in a small cup 
of milk; let it boil; then add one-half cup of sugar, small piece of butter, 
a little salt, and flavoring. 


Cinnamon Chocolate Cake. — One-half cup butter, one cup 
granulated sugar, two eggs well beaten, one-half cup sweet milk, one and 
one-half cups flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls Cleyeland’s Superior 
Baking Powder, three teaspoonfuls cinnamon. Cream the butter, then add 
gradually the sugar, the beaten eggs, the milk and a very little salt. When 
all is well beaten together add the spice. 

Chocolate filling for above— Whites of two eggs and confectioners’ sugar 
beaten together to the consistency of icing, not too stiff. One ounce (or 
a square) of chocolate dissolved on stove in a small pan. When melted 
pour into icing and mix thoroughly. This makes a two-layer cake. 


Marbled Chocolate Cake. — One-half cup butter and one cup 
sugar beaten to a cream, one-half cup sweet milk, one and one-half cups 
flour, one teaspoontul Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, whites of four 
eggs added last. Take one cup of this mixture, add to it five tablespoon- 
fuls grated chocolate wet with milk and flavor with vanilla. Put a layer 
of white batter in cake pan, drop the chocolate batter with a spoon in 
spots; pour over the remaining white batter, and bake. Ice with choco- 
late icing. 


Coffee Cake.—Onc-half cup butter, one cup brown sugar, one cup 
molasses, one cup strong coffee (boiled), one beaten egg, four cups flour, 
one heaping teaspoonful Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, one table- 
spoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful cloves, two pounds seedless raisins, 
one-quarter pound sliced citron. Dredge the truit and add last. Bake one 
hour. 


Cold Water Cake.— One and one-half cups sugar, one-quarter cup 
of butter, two and one-half cups flour, two eggs, one cup of water, two tea- 
spoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder. Flavor with vanilla or 
lemon. 


Gorn Starch Cake.—Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, one cup of corn-starch, whites of 
seven eggs, beaten stiff, two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking 
Powder. Stir the butter and sugar to acream; sift the flour and corn- 
starch together; add the eggs last. Mix in an earthen vessel, and flavor 
with lemon. 


Cocoanut Cake. — One cup of sugar, one third of a cup of butter, 
one-half a cup of sweet milk, one and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoon- 


“ Cakes, muffins, etc., in which Cleveland's baking powder is 


used keep better.” QE 


40. COrirvenann’s Baxinc PowpER, PuRE AND SuRE. 


fuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, the whites of three eggs beaten 
to a froth, and added last. Stir very little after the eggs are in. 
Filling — The rind and juice of one lemon, yolk of one egg, one cup of 
powdered sugar, one-half grated cocoanut and a little milk ; cook until 
thick. 
Frosting — Three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, the ene of one egg, 
and the other half of the cocoanut, 


Cocoanut Cake.—Three quarters cup butter, two cups sugar, 
yolks of four eggs and whites of two, one cup sweet milk, three and one-half 
cups flour, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder. Bake in 
jelly tins. Grate one fresh cocoanut, or use dessicated cocoanut soaked in 
milk and drained. Coyer the layers with boiled icing, and sprinkle thickly 
with cocoanut. 


Citron Pound Cake. —Three-quarters pound butter rubbed to a 
cream with one pound sugar. Add first the beaten yolks of eight large or 
ten small eggs, then one pound flour, the beaten whites of the eggsand last, 
one and one-quarter pounds finely sliced citron slightly dredged with flour. 
Bake one and one-half or two hours. 


Centennial Washington Cake.—Three-quarters pound but- 
ter, one and one-half pounds brown sugar, six eggs, whites and yolks 
beaten separately, one pint sweet milk, one and three-quarters pounds 
flour and two teaspoonfuls Cleyeland’s Superior Baking Powder. Three- 
quarters pound currants, washed and dried, one-quarter pound raisins 
(stoned), one-quarter pound citron, sliced, one grated nutmeg, one wine 
glass wine. Sprinkle fruit with part of flour. Cream the butter with the 
sugar, add beaten yolks, wine, milk, nutmeg and flour and whites of eggs 
alternately. Put in fruit last, mix well and bake one and three-quarters 
hours. An old and excellent receipt. 


Delicate Cake. — Three-quarters cup butter rubbed to a cream, with 
two cups sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, three cups flour, one and one-half 
teaspoonfuls Cleyeland’s Superior Baking Powder, whites of eight eggs 
well beaten. Add flour and eggs alternately. Flavor. 


Pound Cake.—Yolks of ten eggs, whites of two well beaten. One 
pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour, one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls Cleyeland’s Superior Baking Powder, one cup milk. Add flour 
and whites last. 


Delicate and Fruit Cake.—Cream three-quarters cup butter 
with two cupssugar. Addone cup sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, 
two teaspoonfuls Cleyeland’s Superior Baking Powder, whites of five eggs. 
Flayor with lemon juice. Take four large tablespoonfuls of this and add 
spices to suit and one cup raisins, one-half cup sliced citron dredged with 
flour, or one-half cup molasses and one small cup flour with fruit. Bake 


San Francisco, Cal. “ Cleveland’s baking powder is the best in 
existence. In making cake especially it is just the powder that 
suits me.”—Mrs. EB. 8. 


CAKE. 41 


one layer of dark mixture and two of white in flat square tins, and put 
together with boiled icing —the dark layer in the middle. 


Fig Cake. —One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one. 
half cup sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful Cleve- 
Jand’s Superior Baking Powder, one-half cup corn-starch, whites of six 
eggs. Bake in two layers, and fill with fig fillmg. Chop one pound figs, 
add one-half cup sugar and one cup water. Stew until soft and smooth. 
Spread between the layers, and ice the whole cake with boiled icing. 


Wedding Fruit Cake. —Two pounds raisins, stoned, two pounds 
currants, one pound sliced citron, a few figs cut in small bits. Pour over 
this one goblet sherry and port wine and one-half goblet brandy or whiskey. 
Let stand over night, and in the morning pour off what liquor has not 
soaked into the fruit. Mix one pound butter creamed, one pound sugar, 
yolks of twelve beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls mace, one tablespoonful 
cinnamon, two grated nutmegs, one pound of browned flour and whites of 
eggs added alternately. Dissolve one teaspoonful soda in a little water, 
add just before putting in the fruit. Mix with the hands. Bake slowly. 


Ohio Fruit Cake.—One pound raisins, one pound currants, one, 
quarter pound citron, one pint brown sugar, one nutmeg, one tablespoontul 
cinnamon, % tablespoonful cloves, four eggs, one cup butter, one cup sour 

milk or buttermilk, four cups flour sifted three or four times. One dessert- 
Spoonful soda. Do not put soda in milk, but add dry, sprinkling {n last. 


; Hickory-nut Cake.—One cup of butter rubbed to a cream, with 
two cups sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, three eups flour, one teaspoon- 
ful Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, whites of eight eggs, and one 
pint hickory-nut kernels, or half nuts and half raisins. Add flour and 
beaten whites alternately. Dredge the nuts slightly with flour. 


ice Cream Cake.— One cup butter rubbed with two cups white 
Sugar to acream, one cup sweet milk, three and one-half cups flour, two 
teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, and whites of eight 
eggs. Lake in jelly tins, and put together with boiled icing flavored with 
orange, and spread on thick. 


Roll Jelly Cake.—Three eggs; the yolks beaten with one cup of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, Beat the whites to a froth, then 
thoroughly with the yolks and sugar. Mix one heaping teaspoonful of 
Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder with one cup of flour; add to the 
other ingredients; flavor with lemon and bake immediately in moderately 
hot oven. While hot remove from pan and lay on a cloth, wet with cold 
water. Spread with jelly androll quickly. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 


Lemon Cream Cake. — One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, one 
cup sweet milk, three eggs yolks and whites beaten separately, three cups 


Stoneham, Mass. ‘You do not praise Cleveland's baking powder 


half enough. It makes swch lovely doughnuts, cakes, puddings, and 
dumplings.” —Miss M. T, 


49 OxieveLann’s Baxine Powpsr, Purm aND SuRB. 


a 


flour, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland Superior Baking Powder. For filling, oné 
cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter, two eggs, and grated rind and juice of 
two lemons. Mix all together, and boil till consistency of jelly. Spread 
between layers, and dust powdered sugar on top without the filling. 


‘Lemon Jelly Cake. —One cup of sugar, one scant half cup of but- 
ter, two-thirds of a cup of cold water, one egg, two cups of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder. Bake in layers and fill 
with jelly. 

Jelly. —The grated rind and juice of one lemon; add one cup of sugar 
and one egg ; beat thoroughly and boil indouble boiler, tillcooked. Spread 
when cold and frost with confectioner’s sugar. 


Minnehaha Cake.—One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups 
sugar, whites of six or the whole of three eggs, one cup sweet milk, two 
and one-half cups flour, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Pow- 
der. Bake in threelayers. For filling —one cup sugar, four tablespoonfuls 
water, boiled till clear. Stir it into the beaten white of one egg, quickly, 
and add one-half cup raisins, seeded and chopped fine, and one-half cup 
chopped hickory-nut meats. ‘ 


Nut Cake. — Mix twocups ofsugar and one-half cup of butter together; 
add four eggs beaten to a froth, one eup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder sifted in three cups of flour, two cups 
of hickory nuts not chopped. Flavor with vanilla. 


Orange Cake.—Two cups of white sugar, two cups of flour, one- 
half cup of water, yolks of five eggs and whites of four, beaten separately, 
alittle salt, two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, the 
juice and grated rind of two oranges. Bake in layers. 

Orange Jelly.—The juice and rind of two oranges, one-half teacup of 
sugar, enough water to dissolve one and one-half teaspoonfuls of gelatine. 
Let it all boil ten minutes, and spread between the layers, and if desired, 
frosting may crown the whole. This is a nice dish for dessert. Half the 
quantity is enough for small cake. 


Crange Cake.—Rub one tablespoonful butter to a cream with one 
cup powdered sugar. Add the beaten yolks of six eggs, the grated rind 
and juice of three oranges, one cup flour and one teaspoonful Cleveland’s 
Superior Baking Powder. Make as stiff as pound cake, adding more flour 
if necessary. 


White Perfection Cake.—One cup butter rubbed with three 
cups sugar to. acream, one cup sweet milk, one cup corn-starch dissolved 
in the milk, three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking 
Powder, whites of twelve eggs. Ice with whites of two eggs, juice and 
grated rind of three oranges, thickened with confectioners sugar. ° 


~* On account of its purity and healthful constituents Cleveland's 
baking powder deserves to be highly recommended.” 


Ph. D. Prof, of os he Wie G, x 
Chemistry wien a Pe ; 


sity of Penn’a, _ 


Cakg. 43 


White Pound Cake. — One-half pound butter, one pound sugar, 
Jone pound flour, one teaspoonful Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, 
whites of sixteen eggs. Put in slow oven and gradually increase heat. 
Ice while warm with boiled icing. 


Ribbon Cake. — One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, five eggs, four cups of flour, one teaspoonful of Cleveland’s Superior 
Baking Powder, flavoring of any kind. Take one-third of the batter and 
add one cup of chopped raisins and citron, and a little spice. Bake in jelly 
tins, the fruit layer in the middle, with jelly between. 


Delicate Spice Cake.—Two-thirds cup melted butter, two-thirds 
cup sugar, two and one-half cups flour (generous), one egg, two-thirds cup 
{ molasses, one cup milk, two small teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Bak- 
ing Powder, one tablespoonful vinegar or lemon juice, one tablespoonful 
mixed spices (cinnamon, cloves, mace and nutmeg). Beat the egg well. 
Add molasses, sugar, spice, butter, milk, and last the vinegar or lemon 
juice. Bake in shallow pans. 


Spice Cake. — One cup butter, one and one-half cups brown sugar, 
yolks of five eggs, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 
Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, one teaspoonful each, cinnamon, 
cloves, nutmeg. Bake inshallowsquare tins in layers, and put together with 
icing, or in one loaf. 


Boiled Sponge Cake. —Six eggs. Beat whites first, then add 
yolks and beat very light. Three-quarters pound granulated sugar, one- 
half pound flour, one gill water, juice of one lemon. Boil sugar and water 
together until clear, pour into beaten eggs, beating well until cool, then add 
flour and lemon juice. Bake in square sheets, and cover with boiled icing. 


Sponge Cake. — Beat the yolks of eight eggs well, add gradually 
one pint sugar and grated rind of one lemon. Beat whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth, and add to yolks and sugar alternately with three gills flour, 
stirring very gently and just enough to mix well. Then add juice of one 
lemon. Bake in small loaves twenty minutes. : 


Water Melon Cake. — Whites of six eggs, two cups of white 
sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, four even cups of flour, 


two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder ; flavor with lemon 

-oryanilla. For the red part, take the whites of two eggs, three-fourths cup 
of red sugar sand, one-half cup butter, two cups flour, one-half cup of milk, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, 
and the eggs to a stiff froth. Take one-half the quantity of the white mix- 
ture, for the bottom layer, then add the red mixture, and lay on two rows 
of seeded raisins, so they will be an inch apart; then add the rest of the 
white for the top layer. Bake in loaf tins. 


«ay find Cleveland’s Baking Powder perfect in all respects.” —= 
F. Giral, late Chef of Union & Knickerbocker Clubs. 


44 Oevetann’s Baxina Powper, Pure AND SURE. 


Cookies. —‘I'wo cups sugar, one cup butter, three-fourths cup sweet 
milk, two eggs, five cups flour, two teaspoontfuls Cleveland’s Superior Bak- 
ing Powder. Roll thin and bake quickly. 


Soft Cookies.—One heaping cup butter, one and one-half cups 
sugar, two eggs whites and yolks beaten separately, three tablespoonfuls 
sour milk, one small teaspoonful soda (dissolved) and as little flour as will 
make them stiff énough to roll. Sprinkle with sugar and grated nutmeg 
before cutting, pass over roller, cut and bake a light brown. 


Thin Rich Cookies.—One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, three 
eggs all beaten together to a cream, use just enough flour to mix and roll 


thin. 
Cocoanut Cookies.— One cup butter, two cups sugar, two eggs, 


one cup grated cocoanut, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking 
Powder, flour enough to roll. Roll very thin, bake quickly but do not 
brown. 

Crullers.—One cup sugar, one tablespoonful butter, two eggs, one 
cup rich sweet milk, three cups flour mixed with two teaspoonfuls Cleye- 
Jand’s Superior Baking Powder, one teaspoonful salt. 


Cream Crullers.—One and one-half cups sugar, two cups cream, 
two eggs, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder mixed in 
enough flour to roll out soft. Cut in desired shapes, and fry in very hot 
lard. | 


Trifles.—One quart flour, one cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls melted but- \ 
ter, one egg, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder sifted 
with the flour, and enough sweet milk to make stiff as crullers. Roll into 
thin sheets and cut in pieces about two by four inches. Make as many cuts 
across the short way as possible. Pass two knitting needles under every | 
other strip. Spread the needles as far apart as possible, and with them 
hold the trifles in the fat until a light brown. 


Ginger Snaps. — One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup mo- 
lasses, one tablespoonful ginger, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior | 
Baking Powder, and flour enough to make stiff to roll. 


Rochester Ginger Snaps.—One cup of molasses, one cup of | 
sugar, one heaping cup of butter, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one tea- 


spoonful ginger, one teaspoonfulofsoda. Boil this together from five to eight 
minutes ; let it cool; then mix with flour and roll very thin. Cut intostrips } 
one inch wide, and four or more incheslong. Bake on floured tins in a } 
quick oven. The shape is a distinctive feature. 

‘Cleveland's baking powder is made of pure materials, and 1 
recommend it as a healthful, effective and perfectly reliable baking 


powder.” 


Chemist Department of Health, | 
City of Brooklyn, N. Y, ¢ ¢ 


CARR. 45 


Soft Gingerbread.—One cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, two eggs, one tablespoonful ginger, 
one teaspoonful allspice, two cups flour sifted with one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder. Bake in shallow pan, or 
small pans. 


Soft Gingerbread. —One small half cup butter, one and one-half 
cups molasses, two well-beaten eggs, three cups flour, one tablespoonful 
ginger, a little each of nutmeg, allspice and cinnamon, one-half cup sweet 
milk, and one and one-half teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Baking Powder. 


Sponge Gingerbread. — Mix one cup of molasses, one-half cup of 
melted butter, and one tablespoonful of ginger; make them quite warm, 
and add one teaspoonful of soda, then add one cup of sour milk, two eggs 
beaten, and flour to make like pound cake. 


Hickory-nut Kisses. — Whites of six eggs beaten stiff, one pound 
powdered sugar, two tablespoonfuls flour, and one pound hickory-nut 
kernels. Drop on well buttered tins, and bake in a moderate oven. 


Hermits. — Three eggs, one cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, one cup of seeded chopped raisins, a very little citron chopped fine, 
one teaspoonful each of cloves, allspice and cinnamon ; flour enough to roll 
them. Cutin rounds. These are very nice, and will keep like fruit cake. 


Cream Puffs.— One-half cup of butter melted in one cup of hot 
water ; put in a small tin panon the stove to boil; while boiling stir in one 
cup of flour ; take off, and let cool; when cold stir in three eggs, one after 
the other without beating. Drop on buttered tins, and bake in a hot oven 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

Filling —One cup of milk, one egg, one half cup sugar; thicken with 
corn-starch, and flavor with vanilla, 


“Spice Drop Cakes. — Yolks of three eggs, one-half cup shortening, 
one cup molasses, one-half cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder. Spice with nutmeg, 
cinnamon, cloves, and flayor with lemon. Drop on buttered paper on tins, 
and bake very quickly. 


Sand Tarts.—One cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, three 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one tablespoonful water, one-half 
teaspoonful Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, mixed in enough flour to 
make stiff enough to roll. Roll out thin, cut in squares, sprinkle sugar and 
cinnamon on top, and bake. 


Walnut Wafers. — One-half pound of brown sugar, one-half pound 
of walnut meats, slightly broken but not chopped, three even tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, and one-fourth teaspoonful of Cleveland’s Superior Baking 


Greensboro, NV. C. ‘I had never used any of Cleveland’s Bak- 
ing Powder, but after hearing so much about it I am trying it and 
am perfectly charmed. I shall continue to use it in preference to 
all others."—Mrs. W. C. P. 


46  CLEvELAND’s Baxine Powpser, Pure anp SuRE. 


Powder, one-third teaspoonful of salt, two eggs; beat the eggs, add the 
sugar, salt, flour, and lastly meats. Drop small spoonfuls on buttered pans, 
and bake till brown. Remove from pans as soon as baked, Butternut 
meats are also nice. 


Boiled Icing. — Boil one cup granulated sugar with four tablespoon- 
fuls water until it drops from spoon in threads. Haye ready the beaten 
white of one egg, and pour the syrup slowly into it, beating all the time. 
Flayor. Spread on cake while warm. 


Boiled Chocolate Icing.—One cup powdered sugar, one-quarter 
cake chocolate (shaved), two tablespoonfuls boiling water, the white of 
one egg. Cook one-third of the sugar, the chocolate and the water to- 
gether until smooth. Have the egg and the remainderof the sugar beaten 
together, and pour into them the hot chocolate. Beat well and spread 
over cake af once. 


Frosting. — Allow ten teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar and one-half 
teaspoonful of lemon juice to the white of one egg. Beat the egg until you 
can inyerta teaspoonful of it without its falling, then beat in the sugar, a tea- 
spoonful ata time, add the lemon juice, and spread upon the warm cake 
with a broad knife dipped occasionally in cold water. Put in a cool dry 
place to harden. If the cake is rich dust with flour, brushing afterwards 
lightly with a napkin to remove what does not adhere, before frosting it. 


Soft Frosting. —One cup granulated sugar, one-half cup milk. Let 
boil until it drops from spoon in strings. Pour into a bowl, and add one 
teaspoonful flour. Beat a few moments, and let stand until cool and thick 
enough to spread on cake without running. 


- 


BREAD & BREAKFAST CAKES. 


Bread made by the two following recipes is much more healthful than yeast bread, 
and is especially recommended to those of weak digestion. Because of its wholesome- 
ness we call it Peptik Bread. . 

It is made without yeast, does not contain any yeast germs, and will not ferment in 
the stomach, It will never be sour and contains all the nutrient properties of the flour. 

Besides, it is easily made, It can be made ready for the oven in five minutes with- 
out the hands touching the dough. 

Many physicians are recommending the Peptik Graham Bread to their patients who 
suffer from indigestion. 


Peptik White Bread.—For one loaf. One quart flour, one tea- 
spoonful salt, two rounded teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Baking Powder, about 
one pint of cold water (milk may be used, or half milk and half water). 


North Adams, Mass. “I have used Cleveland's baking powder 
for over eight years in Scotland and America, and find it avery 
excellent powder.”—Mrs. R. D. 


\ 
BREAD AND BrEAKFAs? Caxgs. 47 


Mix the flour, salt, and baking powder thoroughly, by rubbing through a 
sieve twice, into your bread bowl. Then make a well in the center and 
pour into this all the water. Be sure to use enough water to make the 
dough quite soft. With a large spoon stir quickly and thoroughly together, 
and when ali the flour is wet, stir it amoment longer, then turn at once into 
a well greased baking pan. The pan should be four inches wide, four 
inches deep, and eight inches long. Do not knead the dough or beat it. 
After the dough has been turned into the pan, smooth the top of the dough 
with a knife dipped into melted butter, and bake at once in a moderate 
oven one hour. As soon as baked remove from the pan, sprinkle with 
water and wrap in a bread cloth until cold. 


Peptik Graham Bread.—For onz loaf. Three cups Graham flour, 
one cup white flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls salt, two and one-half 
teaspoonfuls Cleyeland’s Baking Powder, Put these ingredients in a bowl, 
mix well with a spoon, Make a well in center, pour in one large table- 
spoonful Orleans molasses and one pint of water. With a large spoon 
stir quickly and thoroughly together. When all the flour is wet stir it a 
moment longer, then turn at once into a well greased baking pan four 
inches wide, four inches deep, and eight inches long. Smooth the top of 
the dough with a knife dipped in melted butter. Bake at once, in a mod- 
erate oven, one hour anda quarter. Assoonas baked remoye from the pan, 
sprinkle with water and wrap in a bread cloth until cool. 


Yeast Bread.—Three pints flour. Let stand in a warm place over 
night where it will get warm and light. Take one-half cake compressed 
yeast, one-half cup flour, sufficient milk to wet it. Let rise till very light. 
Add one tablespoonful sugar, one of lard, one teaspoonful salt, and one and 
one-half pints warm milk. Stir into flour, and knead ten minutes. Let 
rise to twice its size, knead five minutes, let rise again, knead ten minutes 
and form into two loaves. Let rise thirty minutes, and bake in a moderate 
oven three-quarters of an hour. 


Brown Bread.—Two coffee cups sweet milk, one-half cup Orleans 
molasses, one teaspoonful soda (level) dissolved in dregs of molasses, one 
teaspoonful salt, four coffee cups brown flour. Steam three hours, bake for 
one hour, 


Boston Brown Bread. — One even cup of Indian meal, two heap- 
ing cups of rye meal, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of soda, one 


cup of molasses. Mix very thoroughly together, the meal, salt and soda. 
Add one pint of hot water to the molasses and stir; pour the molasses, and 
water, into the middle of the meal, and stir till a smooth batter. Put ina 
buttered tin boiler, cover tightly, and set in a covered iron kettle to boil 
three hours, adding water as may be necessary. When done set the bread 
boiler in the oven for ten minutes. 


Mackinaw, Mich. “I have used your baking powder a great 
deal in all kinds of pastry and cooking, and find that it is the 
best that can be bought. Itis pure and wholesome and gives satis- 
faction in everything.” —Mrs. W. E. P. 


. 


48  CiEevELAND’s Baxine Powper, Pure anp Surg. 


Sweet Rusk.— One pint of warm milk, one-half cup butter, oue cup 
sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful salt, two-thirds of a cake of compressed 
yeast; make a sponge with the milk, yeast, and flour enough for a thin 
batter ; let rise over night ; in the morning add the butter, eggs, sugar (well 
beaten together) the salt, and flour enough to make asoft dough; mold 
with the hands into balls, and let rise until very light then bake. 


Rusk, — Four cups bread dough, one and one-half cups sugar, one cup 
milk, two tablespoonfuls butter, two eggs, one grated nutmeg, flour enough 
to make soft dough. Mix beaten eggs with dough. Heat the milk, butter 
sugar, then add to dough. Knead thoroughly, let rise, make into round 
balls, place close together in pans, let rise again until very light, and bake 
thirty minutes. 


Astor House Rolls.—One pint of sweet milk boiled, and while still 
warm, put in a luampof butter, the size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
a little salt, one-half cake of compressed yeast and flour enough to make a thin 
batter; when light, mold fifteen minutes, let rise again and cut into round 
cakes, spread each half with butter and fold over on the other half, put into 
pans and when light bake in a quick oven. 


Parker House Rolls.—Scald one pint sweet milk, when cool add 
two tavlespoonfuls sugar, two of lard, two of yeast, and a little salt and flour 
enough to make a thin batter. Let rise over night, knead down in morning, let 
rise again, and at noon knead, roll out thin, cut with large cutter, butter the 
top, fold over, let rise again and bake. If wanted for tea, mix in the morning 
instead of night. : 


Rolls.— One pint of milk, let it boil, put in butter about the size of an 
egg and let cool, add one teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt; stir in with 
a spoon as much flour as possible. Add one cake of compressed yeast dis- 
solved in one-half cup of water, let rise over night. Take small pieces, 
knead them, let rise again and bake. 


Gluten Bread.—One-sixth cake dry hop yeast, one cup warm 
water, one heaping teaspoonful butter, and two and one-half cups gluten 
flour. Mix thoroughly, cover closely, and let rise over night. Knead into 
loaves in the morning, using as little gluten flour as possible, let rise and 
bake half an hour. 


Cluten Muffins.— Two cups gluten flour, two cups milk, one egg 
well beaten, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder. Mix 
powder and flour, stir in egg and milk thoroughly and pour into hot gem 
pans. 


Egg Rolls. — Two eggs, well beaten, one small teacup milk, one table- 
spoonful lard or melted butter, two teaspoonfuls Cleyeland’s Superior Bak- 
ing Powder, and enough flour to make stiff as biscuit. Roll out, cut the 
desired size and bake in hot oven. 


Cleveland's Baking Powder consists of pure cream of tartar, 
mingled with such other ingredients as render it an effective and 
desirable baking powder, and it does not contain any adulteration 
whatever. It is among the most wholesome compositions for a 
baking powder of which I have any kiowledge.—HENRY Morron, 
Ph. D., President Stevens Institute of Technology. 


e 


BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. 49 


Graham Muffins. — One quart graham flour, two teaspoonfuls 
Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, two tablespoonfuls sugar, a little 
salt, one-half tablespoonful butter, two eggs, and enough milk to make a 
good batter. Bake in small pans at once in a good oven. 


Graham Puffs.—Beat one egg thoroughly, then add one pint 
sweet milk, one pint graham flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat all briskly 
with egg beater, pour in hot greased gem pans, and bake in hot oyen. 


Cleveland’s Baking Powder Biscuit. — Sift with one quart 
flour two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder and one-half 
teaspoonful salt. Rub in shortening (butter and lard mixed) the size of an 
egg, and wet with enough sweet milk to make soft dough. Handle as little 
as possible and roll out about one inch thick. Cut the desired size, and 
bake twenty minutes. Do not haye the oven too hot at first —increase the 
heat. 


Nonpareil Corn Bread. —Two heaping cups of Indian meal, one 
cup of flour, three eggs, two and one-half cups sweet milk, one tablespoon- 
ful of lard, two tablespoonfuls of white sugar, two teaspoonfuls of Cleve- 
land’s Superior Baking Powder, one teaspoonful of salt. Beat the eggs very 
thoroughly, whites and yolks separately, melt the lard, sift the baking 
powder into the meal and flour, and stir this in at the last; then beat as 
fast as possible, bake quickly and steadily in a buttered mold; one-half 
hour will usually suffice. 


Rose’s Corn Bread.—One cup yellow corn meal, one and one- 
half cups flour, two tablespoonfuls sugar, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s 
Superior Baking Powder, one tablespoonful butter, one and one-half cups 
sweet milk. Yolks of two eggs. Bake in square shallow pan about one- 
half hour. 


Corn Bread.—Two cups corn meal, one cup flour, two tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls Cleyeland’s Superior — 
Baking Powder, two eggs well beaten, one pint sweet milk, Bake in 
shallow tins. 


Steamed Corn Bread.—Three cups corn meal, one cup flour, 
one cup molasses, two cups sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Supe- 
rior Baking Powder. Scald two cups of the meal, mix the other with the 
flour and baking powder. Steam three hours. 


Corn Muffins.— One cup yellow corn meal, one-half cup flour, one 
tablespoonful sugar, one and one-half teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior 
Baking Powder, one beaten egg, one and one-half cups sweet milk, a little 
salt. Bake in hot greased gem pans. 


Akron, Ohio. ‘* We have used a good deal of Cleveland’s baking 
powder, and find it the only reliable powder in the market so far as 
we have tried. Of course we have tried other kinds in order to get 
some inducement that has been offered, but after all when we want 


good work we get Cleveland’s.”—Mrs. I. D. 


. 


50 CieveLanv’s Baxtna PowpsEr, Pure AND SuRR. 


Crumpets.—Melt one small tablespoonful lard. Add to it one egg 
and one and one-half gills milk. Beat well, then add one-half teaspoonful 
salt, one teaspoonful sugar, one and one-half teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s 
Superior Baking Powder sifted with two and one-half gills flour. Bake in 
muffin ringsin a very hot oven at once, for five minutes. This quantity makes 
six crumpets. The secret of success is quick making and quick baking. 


Sally Lunn, —One pint flour, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior 
Baking Powder, one-half teaspoonful salt. Beat two eggs, whites and 
yolks separately, add to yolks one-half cup sweet milk or water. Stir 
slowly into flour, and add one-half cup melted butter. Stir in whites last. 
Bake in muflin pans two-thirds full. 


Muffins. — Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one pint 
sweet milk, one tablespoonful melted butter, two teaspoonfuls Cleve- 
land’s Superior Baking Powder, flour enough to stiffen. 


Breakfast Muffins. — One cup of sugar, one egg, one tabiespoon- 
ful of melted butter, one pint of sweet milk, three cups of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, one teaspoonful of salt. 


Rice Muffins. — One cup of boiled rice, one cup of sweet milk, two 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, two 
of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, and enough flour to make a batter; 
beat hard and add the baking powder the last thing. Bake in muflin rings. 


English Muffins, —One quart flour, one-half teaspoonful sugar, 
one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking 
Powder, one and one quarter pints sweet milk. Have batter a little stiffer 
than for griddle cakes. Have a griddle hot and greased, lay greased muffins 
ring on it, fill them half full, and turn when risen to the top with cake 
turner. Donotbake too brown. When done, pull apart, toast slightly, and 
butter. Serve at once. 


German Puffs.—One pint sweet milk, one-half pound flour, two 
ounces butter, and four eggs. Separate the eggs, and beat the yolks until 
thick; warm the butter and milk until the butter is melted : when cold, stir in, 
slowly, the yolks of the eggs; mix with the flour. Whisk the whites dry, 
stir through very lightly and bake in buttered cups not half full. 


Oatmeal Gems.— One pint cooked oatmeal, one pint sweet milk, 
four tablespoonfuls sugar, two beaten eggs, one teaspoonful salt, two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Pow- 
der, and enough flour to stick together. Bake in hot gem pans in quick oven. 


Pop Overs.— One egg, white and yolk beaten separately, one cup 
sweet milk, one cup flour, a pinch salt. Bake twenty minutes. 


New York City. ‘ Cleveland’s baking powder is the most reliable 
IT have ever tried.”—Mrs. M. M. C. 


BREAD AND Breakrast Cakks. 51 


Rice Waffles. —One cup of boiled rice, one pint of sweet milk, two 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, butter size of a walnut, and flour to make a thin batter. 


Waffles. — Sift two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder 
with one quart flour ; rub into it one-third cup butter, and add sweet milk 
enough to make a batter, then add three eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately, and a little salt. Bake in wattle irons at once. 


Waffles.— One quart sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Supe- 
rior Baking Powder mixed in flour enough to make stiff batter, one cup 
melted butter, six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately and whites 
added last. Salt. Bake at once. Can be made with fewer eggs, but are 
delicious with the quantity named in the receipt. 


Buckwheat Cakes. — Two teacupfuls buckwheat flour, one teacup- 
ful wheat flour, four teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, 
one teaspoonful salt. Mix all together, and add suflicient sweet milk or 
water to make a soft batter. Bake on griddle at once. 


Indian Pancakes, — One pint Indian meal, one teaspoonful salt, 
mixed with enough boiling water to make a little thinner than mush. 
When cool add the yolks of four eggs, half a cup flour sifted with three 
teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, enough sweet milk to 
make batter as for griddle cakes, and the beaten whites of four eggs, added 
just before baking. 


Batter Cakes. — One quart flour, three teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s 
Superior Baking Powder, three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
one quart sweet milk, one tablespoonful melted butter, a little salt. Add 
whites last. Bake at once. 


Griddle Cakes.—Three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s 
Superior Baking Powder, one teaspoonful salt. Mix well and add two 
well beaten eggs. Add enough sweet milk to make a soft batter, and bake 
at once on a well greased griddle. 


Snow Balls.—One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, two tablespoonfuls 
of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, 
three eggs; flavor with lemon. Put one tablespoonful in a buttered cup, 
and steam twenty minutes. Roll in white sugar while hot. 


My bread and cake are baked with speed, 
And I have time to shop and read, 
Because the dough I need not knead 
With Clevland’s Baking Powder. A 


52 Crievenann’s Baxkinc Powpksr, Purn anp Sours. 


German Breakfast Cake.—One quart flour, two teaspoonfuls 
Cleyeland’s Superior Baking Powder, two tablespoontuls sugar, one table- 
spoonful butter, one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, a little salt. Mix all 
the dry ingredients together, rub in the butter and add enough sweet milk 
to make asoft dotgh. Roll into two sheets, put in pie tins, allowing to 
come up on the side a little, and sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and bits of 


butter. Bake, and serve hot. ‘ 


Cream Toast. — Heat one pint milk, stir into it one large tablespoon- 
ful flour wet with a little cold milk. Add one large teaspoonful butter, and 
one cup cream if youhaye it. Place on the back of stove to keep hot, 
then toast nicely some bread, dip into the cream, put into a dish, and when 
you have sufficient toast, pour the cream over it, and serye. 


PICKLES. 


* Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers.” 


Chow Chow. — Chop one peck green tomatoes, one-half peck ripe 
tomatoes, six onions, three small heads cabbage, one dozen green peppers 
(seeds removed), three red peppers (seeds removed). Sprinkle with salt, 
and put ina coarse bag. Drain over night. In the morning put in the 
porcelain lined kettle with two pounds brown sugar, one-half teacup grated 
horse-radish, one tablespoonful each ground black pepper, and mustard, 
whole white mustard seed, mace and celery seed. Cover with vinegar, 
and boil till clear. Seal up in jars. 


Chili Sauce. — Fifty ripe tomatoes, twenty-five onions, twelve green 
peppers, one bunch of celery; chop fine and add one and one-half gallons 
of vinegar, three cups of sugar, one tablespoonful each of allspice, cloves, 
cinnamon, mace, two tablespoonfuls of salt. Boil two and one-half hours. 


Pickled Eggs and Beets.—Boil six beets until tender, being 
careful to have them keep their color. Remove skins, and slice. Boil one 
dozen eggs, remove shells, add to beets, and cover with vinegar and add a 
little salt. Will be ready in one day. 


Ripe Tomato Soy.—One peck of tomatoes, peeled and sliced, 
eight onions sliced thin, one cup of salt. Let them stand twenty-four hours, 
drain off all liquor, and add two quarts of vinegar, one tablespoonful each 
of ground mustard, ginger, cloves and allspice, and one-half tablespoonful 
cayenne pepper. Stew slowly tio or three hours, and when nearly done, 
add two pounds sugar and one-fourth pound white mustard seed. 


Would you have delicious cake, 

Or nicest waffles always make ? 

You will succeed if you will bake 
With Cleveland’s Baking Powder. 


> 


PIcKLES. 53 


Tomato Catsu p. — Take one peck tomatoes, cut out the stem end, 
and put in a porcelain lined kettle. One tablespoonful each salt, ground 
black pepper, powdered cloves, and celery seed, one teaspoonful cayenne, 
and half pound ground mustard. Boil the tomatoes until very soft, then 
rub through a colander first and a sieve after. Put on the stove with other 
ingredients (celery seed tied in a muslin bag) and boil six hours. Stir 
occasionally until last hour, then almost constantly. Pour in a stone jar, 
and let stand until perfectly cool, then add one pint strong vinegar. Re- 
move the celery seed, then bottle, cork and seal. Keep in a dark place. 


Pickled Peaches. — Pour boiling water over peaches, and remove 
the skins. Put in a large stone jar. Make a syrup with proportions of 
one quart best cider vinegar to three pints sugar, boil and skim, and 
pour over the fruit boiling hot, three successive mornings. Then drain 
off the syrup, put a layer of fruit in a jar three inches deep, sprinkle with 
bits of whole cinnamon and whole cloves, then another layer of fruit and 
spice and so on till allisused. Boil the syrup with a handful each of cloves 
and cinnamon until it is like molasses, and pour boiling hot over the fruit. 
Have enough syrup to cover well. Cover closely. 


Watermelon or Muskmelon Pickle. — Cut the fruit into de- 
sired size, put ina stone jar and pour over enough scalding vinegar to cover. 
Heat the vinegar three successive days, and pour over fruit. Then weighthe 
fruit, and to every five pounds add three pounds white sugar, one quart 
vinegar, cloves, cinnamon and allspice to suit. Boil all together until fruit 
is tender, put the fruit in jars, boil down the syrup until there is just enough 
to cover, and pour over scalding hot. 


Sweet Pickles. —To five hundred small cucumbers, take three quarts 
of cider vinegar; add two ounces each of cinnamon, allspice and cloves, 
three pounds of light brown sugar and a few small red peppers. Let the 
pickles stand over night in salt and water, then put them in the cold vinegar 
and let come to a boil, and boil two or three minutes. If the vinegar is too 
strong add one quart of water. 


Mrs. D.’s Pickles. —Two hundred small cucumbers, three table- 
spoonfuls each white and black mustard seed, one handful each juniper 
berries and small green peppers, a few small onions, and two pounds sugar. 
Let cucumbers stand in salt water closely covered three days, then pour 
off water and dry carefully. Boil one-half gallon best vinegar and pour 
over pickles scalding hot. Repeat three or four times. If vinegar is too 
salty, add fresh. Put about two quarts vinegar, all the ingredients, one- 
half pound ground mustard, and one bottle English chow-chow in a porce- 
lain kettle. When it gets hot, put in enough pickles to fill ajar, let them 
get thoroughly hot, then put them ina jar, pour over some vinegar and 
seal hot. Continue till pickles are all used. 


Salem, Mass. ‘‘I have wsed Cleveland's baking powder for 
years and find it is the best in the market. I advise all ny Sriends 
to use it.”—Mrs. J. W. C. 


54 CLEVELAND’s Bakina Powpsr, PugE AND SuRR. 


PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 


“ Sweets to the sweet.’’ —SHAKESPEARE. 


To Make Jelly.— Generally cut up the fruit into small bits and nearly 
cover with water. It will depend on the fruit whether more or less water 
should be used; with currants do not add so much, but with quinces you 
can put in enough to just cover the fruit. Cover the kettle and boil slowly 
until the fruit is broken to pieces. Put the fruit, juice and all, in a coarse 
bag, hanging the same in a warm place to allow the juice to drip. Toward 
the last of the dripping take two spoons and press very lightly on the sides 
of the bag to help the remaining juice through. Do not be too economical 
about getting out every bit of the juice, for the more you squeeze it the 
cloudier the jelly will be when finished. Measure the juice, and to every 
pint allow one pound of sugar. This is the general rule, but quince jelly is 
much more luscious if only three-quarters of a pound of sugar is allowed 
to every pound of juice. Put the juice on the fire, and after it begins to 
boil let it continue so for just twenty minutes. Do not cover the juice, and 
do not let it boil too hard. Skim frequently. At the same time you put the 
juice on, place the sugar in a pan in the oven to heat; stir it up frequently 
from the bottom. If you should happen to brown it a little on top 1 will 
not harm it. When the time of the boiling is up throw the sugar into the 
boiling juice, stirring constantly. It will hiss as it falls in, and melt at 
once. Let the jelly just come to a boil and dip out with a jelly dipper. 
Have ready a heated pitcher with a piece of cheese cloth wet with hot 
water over the top. Put each dipperful of the jelly through this strainer. 
It will run through like water, and if the cloth is as hot as you can wring it 
out of the water there will be no waste of the jelly. Have the jelly glasses 
standing in a pot of hot water; take out, drain a moment, and turn the 
jelly in from the pitcher. This pitcher arrangement is by far the most con- 
venient. Fill the glasses full and set away to cool. If these rules are fol- 
lowed out no one need have poor or cloudy jelly. If it seems not quite as 
solid the next day as you wish set the glasses in the sun, and it will shrink 
to any desired consistency. Cover the glasses with white paper dipped in 
brandy. Use only the best white granulated sugar, or loaf sugar if your 
purse is heavy. 


Crab Apple Jelly. — Wash, and cut out any imperfections; set on 
the stove and cover with water, cook slowly until soft enough to strain. 
Then take off and drain through a jelly bag. To every four pints of juice, 


“ Often agents and others tried to convince me that other brands 
of baking powder are as good as yours, but I am not to be deceived. 
L have the best and use no other. When my friends ask me what 
lost pee : bi L always tell them Cleveland’s.” I can use it 
in the dark with my eyes shut, and be sure of the s ha 
results.” —M. H. B. ; 2 hte ae 


PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 55 


use three pints of sugar; heat the sugar very warm in the oven. Boil the 


juice fourteen minutes, stir in the waria sugar, and boil together three min- 
utes; turn into molds. 


Brandied Peaches.—Put the peaches in boiling water for a few 
minutes, when the skin will peel off easily. Make a syrup of half a pound 
of sugar and half a teacup of water for each pound of peaches. Skim as 
the scum rises in boiling, then put in the peaches and boil them gently until 
tender—no longer. Take them out carefully and fill your cans or jars. 
Remove the syrup from the fire, and add to it half a pint best brandy to 
every pound of peaches. 


Spiced Currants. —Three pounds white sugar, five pounds ripe 
currants, one tablespoonful each cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves and allspice. 
Boil currants one hour, then add sugar, spices and one-half pint vinegar, 
boil one-half hour longer. 


Spiced Cooseberries.— Six quarts gooseberries, nine pounds 
sugar, cook one and one-half hours, then add one pint vinegar, one table- 
spoonful each cloves, cinnamon and allspice. Boil afew minutes. When 
cold they should be like jam. Boil longer if not thick enough. 


Preserved Strawberries.— To one pound of berries use three- 
fourths of a pound of sugar, im layers (no water). Place in a kettle on 
back of the stove until the sugar 1s dissolved into syrup; then let come 
to a boil, stirring from the bottom. Spread on platters, not too thickly and 
set out in the hot sun till the syrup thickens—it may take two or three 
days. Keep in tumblers or bowls like jelly. Strawberries done in this way 
retain their color and flavor. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


TEA, COREE, Elc: 
“Drink, pretty creature, drink.’’—W ORDSWORTH. 


Boiled Coffee. — Use coffee mixed im proportions of one-third Mocha 
and two-thirds Java. Buy whole grains, and grind as needed. Take one 
large tablespoonful coffee for each cup, and allow one for the pot. Use the 
white and shell of one egg, and wet with cold water. Allow one coffeecup 
boiling water for each cupful of coffee desired. Stopup the nose of the pot 
with a cloth to retain flavor. Let boil up well three or four times (stirring 
down each time). Then pour in a half cup cold water, and set back on the 
stove to settle. Pour off mto pot in which it 1s to be served, and serve with 
rich cream. Good coffee is poor without cream, 


No soggy biscuit or cake to be thrown away if you use Cleveland's 


baking powder. It is swre to make light, wholesome food. 


56 OLEVELAND’s Baxina PowveEr, PuRE AND SURE. 


Coffee. — Allow one tablespoonful to each cupful. Moisten with the 
whole or part of a well beaten egg; pour on boiling water, and let stand 
for five minutes where it will keep at the boiling point, but not boil. 


Tea.—Scald out the teapot and put in the tea, using one teaspoonful 
for each cupful. Pour on boiling water, and let stand tour or five minutes. 
If allowed to stand too long, the tannin in the tea is developed, which not 
only darkens the tea, but renders it hurtful. 


Chocolate.— Two squares of vanilla chocolate to each coffeecupful 
of milk. Grate the chocolate and wet it with cold milk. Stir into the 
milk when boiling. Whip a tablespoonful of cream and beat into the choc- 
olate just as it is taken from the stove. This makes one cup of rich and 
delicious chocolate and can be increased in quantity as desired. Do not let 
it boil, as it becomes oily and loses the fine fresh flavor. 


Raspberry Shrub,—Four quarts of red raspberries to one quart 
of vinegar ; let stand four days, then strain. To each pint of juice add one 
pound of sugar. Boil twenty minutes. Bottle, and keep in adry coo! place. 


CANDY. 


Butter Scotch.—Three pounds “coffee A” sugar, one-quarter 
pound butter, one-half teaspoon cream tartar, eight drops extract lemon. 
Dissolve the sugar in cold water and boil without stirring till it breaks 
when dropped in cold water, then take from fire and add lemon juice. 
Pour in buttered pans one-quarter inch thick, and when nearly cold work 
off in squares. 


Molasses Candy.—One quart good molasses, one-half cup vinegar, 
one cup sugar, butter size of an egg, one teaspoon baking soda. Boil 
molasses and sugar and vinegar until it hardens when dropped in cold 
water, then add butter and the soda dissolved in hot water. Flavor to 
taste, pour in into buttered dishes and pull when cool. ; 


FOR THE INVALID’S TRAY. 


“ Simple diet is best, for many dishes bring many diseases .”* 
PLINY. 


Wafer Biscuits, —Rub a teaspoonful of butter into a pint of sifted 
flour ; add a little salt, and with the white of an egg and a little warm milk, 
mix into a stiff smooth paste. Beat with a rolling pin for one-half an hour, 


Iynn, Mass. ‘I have used Cleveland’s baking powder 
and cannot say enough in its praise.”—E. F. @ 2 fepuears 


e 


For tHe INVALID’s Tray. 57 


the longer the better ; form into little round balls, (size of a pigeon’s egg,) 
and roll till the size of a saucer. Sprinkle on the pans a little flour, and 
bake with care. These may be made of oatmeal, or different grains, cut 
in any pretty shape and served with tea or any nourishing liquid. 


Toast, — Cut thin slices of bread into strips, toast carefully and evenly 
without breaking andjserve immediately on a hot plate, slightly buttered, 
if admissible. This may also be served with the juice from roast beef or 
mutton poured over. 


Rice. —Fresh boiled rice, wet with the juice of roast beef or mutton, 
and served on a piece of toast is nice. 


Long Made Beef Tea. — Get two or three pounds of shin of beef; 
remove all the skin and the marrow from the bone ; cut the meat into small 
pieces, and have the bone broken up. Take also a knuckle of veal, —that 
is, just the knuckle-bone; have it broken up, and put all into a strong 
earthen jar. Place the jar in a large sauce-pan of boiling water, and tie 
the cover down with a piece of stout brown paper, using neither salt nor 
pepper. Let it boil slowly all day. When done, the jar will be filled with 
meat-gravy ; strain this, and when cold it will be astrong jelly. Insummer 
this may be served cold, and in winter pour hot water over a portion, and 
you have beef-tea. This will keep a week in summer, in a cool place, and 
much Jonger in winter. : 


Dried Flour —Tie one cupful of flour in a bag and boil for ten hours, 
adding more water when necessary. Take out, dry in the sun, or oven, 
and use it to thicken milk. This is especially good for children. 


Quickly Made Beef Tea.—Take any desired quantity of steak 
from the top part of the round, as this has less fat and more juice than any 


other part of the ox; remove every morsel of fat, and divide the meat into 
small pieces, cutting across the grain; put the meat in a dry sauce-pan, 
and allow it to sweat for five minutes over a slow fire, stirring occasionally 
to prevent sticking. This is how all beef-essences are prepared. After 
sweating for five minutes, you will find the meat white in color, and sur- 
rounded by avery rich nourishing gravy, which, in cases of great exhaustion, 
may be given in this form. But ordinarily you next pour over the meat its 
weight of cold water, allowing a pint of water to a pound of beef. Stir 
until the water boils; it must not boil again, but simmer gently for five or 
ten minutes, until all the juice is drawn out; then strain carefully into a 
bowl, and if there is a particle of fat on top remove it with a piece of brown, 
unsized paper. By this method you may take off every star of fat without 
wasting a drop of the beef tea, as is done when using a ladle or spoon. In 
this way you may have strong beef tea in twenty minutes. Don’t season. 


Raw Beef Tea. — What is called uncooked or raw beef tea. Only 
a little of this should be made at a time, as it sours quickly. Take one 


Hamilton, Canada. ‘It is about seven years now since Cleve- 
land’s baking powder came under my notice, and I have never known 
it to fail.”—Mrs. G. VW. 


58  OLEveLann’s Baxina Powpsr, Purz anp Surg. 


ounce of beef at a time, and as soon as one cupful is given prepare the 
next. The beef should be from the top part of the round; this must be 
cut across the grain, and shred down wita a knife. For each ounce allow 
two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Let the meat soak fifteen minutes, and 
then the water will be colored with the juice. Use no salt, as this is given 
only to patients in very low condition. In summer it should be given cold. 
Indeed, at any time, the colder the better; but if it should be desired, 
allow it to warm just enough to remove the chill, but on no account must it 
boil. 


Chicken Tea.—Cut in small pieces a chicken from which the skin 
and fat have been removed. Boil the pieces in one quart of water, with a 
little salt for twenty minutes. The tea should be poured from the chicken 
before the meat is quite cold. 


Mutton Broth,— Put about four pounds of mutton, (not lamb,) neck 
piece preferred, in cold water enough to cover. Simmer, not boil, nearly 
all day, or until the meat is in shreds. Strain through a colander ; place 
liquor in ice box over night. Next morning remove the grease which has 
risen, being careful not to let any particles remain on the jelly. Keep 
jelly on ice, and when required for use, take one tablespoonful to one-half 
cup of boiling water. Salt to taste, before serving. This is excellent for 
those suffering from dysenteric troubles. 


Fiaxseed Tea — One-half cupful of flaxseed to one quart of boiling 
water ; boil thirty minutes and let stand a little while near the fire to thicken 
more. Strain, and add lemon-juice and sugar. 


Toast Water. — Bread for toast water should be toasted as brown as 
possible without. burning, and covered with boiling water. When cold 
strain off the water and sweeten if desired. It may also be flavored with a 
little orange or lemon peel. 


Jelly Water.—A teaspoonful, or more, of any tart jelly, as currant 
or plum, mixed in a glass of water, makes a refreshing drink. If the jelly 
is hard it should first be dissolved in boiling water. 


Lime Water.— Pour two quarts of hot water over fresh unslacked 
lime, (size of a walnut,) stir till slacked, let stand till clear and bottle. 
Often ordered with milk to neutralize acidity of the stomach. 


Infant Food.— About a teaspoonful of gelatine should be dissolved 
by boiling in half a pint of water. Towards the end of the boiling, a gill 
of cow’s milk, and a teaspoonful of arrowroot made into a paste with cold 
water, are to be stirred into the solution, and from one to two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream added just at the termination of the cooking. It is then to be 
sweetened moderately with white sugar, when it is ready foruse. The 
whole preparation should occupy about fifteen minutes. 


The thrifty housewife cleaves to all 
Good things that are allowed her, 
And in this land o’ lands she cleaves 
To Cleveland’s Baking Powder. 


59 


A Few Plain Dinners. 


Mock Bisque, 
Boiled Fish, Hollandaise Sauce. 
Roast Duck, Apple Sauce, 
Stewed Tomatoes. 
Glazed Sweet Potatoes. 
Fried Oysters. Cold Slaw. 
Spanish Cream. 
Coffee. 


Clear Soup. Celery. 
Boiled Salmon, Hollandaise Sauce. 
Boiled Potatoes. Olives. 

Roast Chicken. 
Glazed Sweet Potatoes. 
Stewed Corn. Fried Egg Plant. 
Scalloped Oysters. 
Lettuce, Mayonnaise Dressing. 
Nesselrode Pudding. Fruit. 
Coffee. 


Mock Turtle Soup. 

Filet of Beef, Mushroom Sauce. 
Peas, String Beans. 
New Potatoes, boiled. 
Lettuce and Tomatoes with 
Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Ice Cream. 

Fruit. 


Cake. 
Coffee. 


Oysters on the half-shell. 


Clear Soup. Olives. 
Roast Beef. Mashed Potatoes. 
Parsnips, browned. Stewed Corn. 
Asparagus (canned) on Toast. 
English Plum Pudding. Ice Cream. 
Fruit. Coffee. 


Clam Soup. 
Broiled Spring Chicken. 
New Potatoes. 

Peas. Beets. 
Lettuce, Mayonnaise Dressing. 
Strawberry Short Cake with 
Strawberry Sauce. 
Cheese. Crackers. 
Coffee. 


Thanksgiving Dinner. 
Oysters on the half-shell. 
Amber Soup. Olives, 
Salted Almonds. Pickles. 
Roast Turkey, Giblet Sauce. 
Cranberry Jelly. Celery. 
Cauliflower. Mashed Potatoes. 
Glazed Sweet Potatoes, 
Pineapple Sherbert. 
Broiled Quail. French Peas. 
Currant Jelly. Lettuce Salad. 
Mince Pie. Pumpkin Pie. 


Cake. 


Cheese. 
Ice Cream. 


Frozen Milk Punch. 
Coffee. Fruit. 


Old-Fashioned. Thanksgiving 
Dinner. 


Roast Turkey, Oyster Dressing. 
Cranberry Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. Baked Corn, 
Stewed Onions. Chicken Pie, 
Olives. Pickled Peaches. 
Pumpkin Pie. Mince Pie. 
Apple Pie. Cheese, 
Fruit. Coffee. 


Christmas Dinner. 


Raw Oysters. 
Bouillon. 

Boiled Salmon, Hollandaise Sauce. 
Pickles. Boiled Potato Balls, 
Salted Almonds. 

Roast Turkey. Cranberry Sauce. 
Celery. Mashed Potatoes. 
Scalloped Asparagus. Chicken Pie. 
Kirsch Punch. 

Roast Duck. Currant Jelly. 
Sweet Potato Croquettes. 
Lettuce Salad. Sweetbreads. 
Plum Pudding, Brandy Sauce. 
Mince Pie. Apple Pie. Cheese. 
Ice Cream. Cake. 


Nuts. Raisins. Fruit. 
Coffee. 


SUPPLEMENT 


CONTAINING ORIGINAL RECEIPTS BY PROMINENT TEACHERS OF 
COOKERY AND LECTURERS ON DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 


Miss Lucy C. Andrews, teacher of cookery, Jersey City, N. J. 

Miss Amy Barnes, teacher of cookery, Boston, Mass. 

Miss Anna Barrows, Y. W. C. A. Cooking School, Boston, Mass. 

Miss Cornelia Campbell Bedford, Lecturer on Cookery. : ; 
Miss Imogene Belden, teacher of cooking at Girls’ Normal School, Philadelphia. 
Miss Helen M. Burrell, teacher of cooking, Howard School, Wilmington, Del. 
Miss Marion L. Campbell, Friendly Inn Cooking School, Cleveland, O. 

Miss Atlanta W. Cramer, Georgia Normal & Industrial College, Milledgeville. 
Miss E. V. Cornelius, Graduate of Philadelphia Cooking School. 

Miss Augusta C. Cruikshank, teacher of cookery, Y.W. C.A., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Miss Bertha A. Dahl, Soldiers & Sailors’ Orphans’ Home, Knightstown, Indiana. 
Miss Harriet I. Davis, teacher of cookery, Boston School Kitchen, No. 3. 

Mrs. Carrie M. Dearborn, late Principal Boston Cooking School. 

Miss Fannie M. Farmer, Principal Boston Cooking School. 

Miss Foster, City Hospital, Wilkesbarre, Pa. 

Miss Annie G, Furlong, Lowell, Mass. 

Mrs, A. D. Gillette, teacher of cookery, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Mrs. F. L. Gillette, Author “‘ White House ’’ Cook Book. 

Miss Elsie Gordon, teacher of cooking in Girls’ Clubs, Boston. 

“Mrs. Grayson,” contributor to ‘‘ Table Talk.” 

Mrs. G. L. Green, formerly Principal Boston Y. W. C. A. School of Cookery. 
Miss Margaret T. Hammond, of Brooklyn Heights School of Cookery. 

“ Marion Harland,” Author of “Common Sense in the Household,” etc. 

Miss Amabel G. E. Hope, teacher of cookery, Boston School Kitchen, No. 1. 
Mrs. Charlotte E. Humphrey, teacher of cooking, Y W. C. A , Worcester, Mass. 
Miss Helen Louise Johnson, Editor of ‘Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 

Mrs, A. E. Kirtland, Author of ‘‘ Mrs. Kirtland’s Cook Book,”” Montgomery, Ala. 
Mrs. Gesine Lemcke, Principal German-American Cooking School, Brooklyn,N.Y. 
Mrs. D. A. Lincoln, Author ‘‘ Boston Cook Book.” 

Miss Mary Alice Little, teacher of cookery and domestic science, Matteawan, N.Y. 
Miss Isabella McNear, Principal of the Trinity Parish Cooking School, NewYork. 
Mrs. M. F. Miller, Asbury Park, N J. 

Miss Mary C. Mitchell, Household Editor ‘‘Sacred Heart Review,” Boston, Mass. 
Miss Julia M. Murphy, teacher of cookery, School Kitchen, Dorchester, Mass. 
Miss Nannette Nevins, teacher of cooking, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mrs. Eliza R, Parker, Author ‘*‘ Economical Housekeeping,” etc., Bedford, Ky. 
Miss Maria Parloa, Lecturer, and Author of ‘‘Miss Parloa’s Cook Book,’ Boston. 
Miss Emma C. G. Polson, Prin.of New Haven & Stamford, Conn.,CookingSchools. 
Miss Carrie M. Pulcifer, teacher of cookery, St. Rose’s Asylum, Milwaukee, Wis. 
Miss Katherine Reed, Chicago, Ill. je 

Miss Charlotte Roberts, teacher of cookery, Glenn Home, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Mrs. S. T. Rorer, Principal Philadelphia Cooking School. 

Mrs. A. W. Somes, teacher of cookery, Manual Training School, Boston. 

Miss Emily E. Squire, Author of ‘“Woronoco Women’s Wisdom,” Westfield, Mass. 
Miss Harriott T. Ward, Boston. 

Miss Margaret Wister, Philadelphia, Pa. 


Miss Kate E. Whitaker, Supt. of Cookery, Public Schools, San Francisco, 


(60) 


j 
/ 


e 


SUPPLEMENT. 61 


Feather Crust.—(By Miss ANDREWs. }—Two cups flour, two tea- 
spoontuls of Cleveland’s Baking Powder, half a teaspoonful of salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, one egg, three-quarters of a cup of milk, four 
tart apples. Place the flour in the seive and add the baking powder, sift 
into a mixing bowl and rub in the butter. Add the salt to the egg and beat 
to a thick cream with a Dover beater in a small bowl with straight sides. 
To the flour add the apples sliced thin, then the egg and milk. Place in 
buttered cups. The half-pound baking powder cans answer this purpose 
nicely. Put on the covers and steam one hour and a quarter. Serve with 
a liquid or a hard sauce. Almost any fruit can be substituted for the ap- 


ples in this receipt. The same batter makes the best of crusts for meat 
pies and fruit pudding. 


Snippidoodles.—(By Miss BarNeEs.)—One cup sugar; one table- 
spoonful butter; one-half cup milk; one egg; one cup flour; one teaspoon- 
ful Cleveland's Baking Powder; one teaspoonful cinnamon. Cream the 
butter; add the sugar, then the eggs, well beaten, then flour, baking 
powder and cinnamon silted together, and the milk. Spread yery thin on 
a tin sheet and bake. When nearly done sprinkle with sugar. When 
brown, remove from the oven, cut into squares, and remove quickly with a 
knife. They should be thin and crispy. 


Banana Fritters.—(By Miss Barrows.)—Beat three or four 
bananas to acream with a food whip. Add one egg, one cupful of bread 
flour, in which one level teaspoonful of Cleyeland’s Baking Powder has 
been sifted, one saltspoonful of salt, and about one-fourth cupful of sweet 
milk or enough to make a drop batter. One teaspoonful of sugar and one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice may also be added. Beat until very thor- 
oughly mixed. Have the fat heated as for doughnuts, so the batter will 
rise to the top immediately. Dip a clean spoon in the fat ana use it to 
shape the fritters; do not make them too large. Fry until well browned, 
drain on soft paper. Sprinkle with powdered sugar or serve with lemon 
sauce. 


Poppets.—(By Miss BEDFORD.)—One cup corn meal; one cup flour; 
one-half teaspoonful Cleveland’s Baking Powder; two teaspoonfuls sugar; 
one teaspoonful salt; one tablespoonful butter; one egg; two cups milk. 
Mix the dry ingredients and rub in the butter. Beat the egg till light and 
thick and add to it the milk. Mix all together and beat hard for three 
minutes. Pour into hot greased gem pans and bake thirty minutes in a 
hot oven. 


Everton Cake.—(By Miss WISTER. )—One cup and half of granu- 
lated sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, six egg whites, one cup of sweet milk, 
two and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland's Baking Pow- 
der. Flavor with lemon. Two-thirds of this mixture to be baked as two 
layers of jelly cake ; the remainder to be baked in same shape after adding 
two tablespoonfuls molasses, half cup of seeded raisins, three chopped figs, 
one teaspoonful cinnamon, half teaspoonful each of nutmeg and allspice 
and two tablespoonfuls of flour. Layers to be put together with frosting, 
with the dark cake in the centre. 


62 OxeveLanv’s Baxina Powpsr, Purz aND Surg. 


Croquignoles.—(By Miss BELDEN.)—One pint of cream whipped to 
astiff froth. Beat the yolks of three eggs with one cup of sugar, and add 
to cream, then add carefully the well beaten whites of three eggs. To 
four cups or one quart of sifted flour, add two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s 
Baking Powder. Stir into the cream mixture as much of the flour and 
baking powder as will enable you to roll out into a soft paste. Cut this 
paste into fancy shapes, and fry in hot lard or oil, until a light brown. 
While still hot, dust them with pulverized sugar. 


Belden Cake.—(By Miss BuRRELL.)—Four cups of flour, two cups 
of sugar, one cup of butter. Three-quarters of a cup of milk, four eggs, 
one teaspoonful lemon extract and two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Baking 
Powder. Cream butter, add sugar and beat thoroughly; add the yolks of 
eggs and milk, then the flour and extract, Beat the whites of eggs to a 
stif froth and stir in carefully. Add the baking powder and bake in 
moderate oven forty-five minutes. 


Swedish Cake.—(By Miss CAMPBELL.)—Cream, one half cup but- 
ter; slowly add one cup sugar, one-half cup milk, the beaten yolks of two 
eggs, the beaten whites. Sift in one heaping cup flour, one teaspoonful 
Cleveland’s Baking Powder, and one tablespoonful cinnamon. 


Kornlet Waffles.—(By Miss CRAMER.)—Three eggs, one and one- 
quarter cups milk, one-quarter teaspoonful salt, one cup kornlet, one and 
one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful Cleyeland’s Baking Powder, one 
tablespoonful melted butter. Beat the yolks till thick and creamy, add the 
milk, salt, kornlet and flour sifted with baking powder, then the melted 
butter, last the whites of eggs which have been beaten to a stiff froth. Cut 
them in gently, bake on hot waffle iron a little longer than ordinary plain 
waffles. werve hot. 


Peach Cups.—(By Miss CorNELIUS.)—One pint of milk, two and 
one-half cups of flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of melted butter, two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Baking Powder. 
Peaches as required. Beat the eggs without separating until light, add the 
milk, salt and flour; beat thoroughly, add the melted butter and baking 
powder, grease some custard cups, half fill with the batter, put into each 
cup a half peach, cover with batter, dust with powdered sugar, stand 
the cups in a baking pan half filled with boiling water, bake twenty 
minutes in a guick oven. Serve with sweetened cream. 


One-Egg Lunch Cake.—(By Miss CRUIKSHANK.)—One table- 
spovuful butter, one scant cup of sugar, one egg, one and one-half cups of 
flour, three-quarters cup of milk (scant), three-quarters cup currants, one 
teaspoonful Cleveland's Baking Powder. Rub the butter to a cream, add 
the sugar gradually, then the well beatenegg. Sift the flour and baking 
powder together, add the flour and milk to the mixture, beat well then 
add the currants. Beat up nice and putin a loaf pan lined with greased 
paper or bake in small patty pans, 


7) 


SurpPLemmnr. 63 


Moonshines.—(By Miss Dant.)—Beat the yolks of four eggs until 
thick, add three tablespoonfuls thick sweet cream, three tablespoonfuls 
light brown sugar, one tablespoonful alcohol to keep them from getting 
dry and hard, a little cinnamon and nutmeg. Add enough flour to 
make a thin batter, then one tablespoonful clarified butter and one-half tea- 
spoonful Cleveland’s Baking Powder. Add enough more flour to make a 
dough stiff enough to be rolled out very thin. Cut into diamond shapes, cut 
an opening in the centre of each, fold one end through find fry in hot lard 
until a very delicate brown. These will keep for weeks. 


Washington Pie.—(By Miss DAvis.)—Two-thirds cup sugar, one 
cup flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls Cleyeland’s Baking Powder, two 
eggs, three tablespoonfuls rich sweet milk. Beat the eggs very light, 
then add sugar and milk gradually, beating well. Add flour and baking 
powder sifted together. Bake in two Washington pie tins. Fill with 
lemon filling. 


Lemon Filling.—One cup of sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one egg. 
Grated rind and juice of one lemon. Cook in a double boiler until thick. 


Pot Pie Dumplings.—(By Mrs. Drarsorn.)—Mix and sift 
together one pint of pastry flour, one heaping teaspoonful of Cleve- 
land’s Baking Powder and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Beatone egg until 
thick and light, add one-half cupful of cold water, stir this into the dry 
mixture, and enough more water to make a dough stiff enough to hold its 
shape when dropped from the spoon. Drgp the dumplings on a plate a 
little distance apart and cook in a closely covered steamer for fifteen min- 
utes; or, drop them on top of the boiling stew and cook for the same length 
oftime. The secret of having them light and tender lies 1n their not being 
disturbed while cooking, and in not having much liquid around them, if 
cooked on top of thestew. (Copyright 1891 by Cleveland Baking Powder Co.) 


Steamed Cranberry Pudding.—(By Miss Farmer.)—Cream 
one half cup butter, add slowly one cup sugar, then add three eggs well 
beaten. Mix three teaspoonfuls baking powder with three and one- 
half cups flour. Add this to the first mixture alternately with one-half cup 
milk. Add two cups cranberries which have been washed, dried and 
floured, with some of the flour already measured. Turn into a buttered 
covered mould, plunge into a kettle of boiling water, cover tightly and 
steam for two hours. Serve with cream, sweetened and flavored with a 
slight grating of nutmeg. 


Raisin Puffs.—(By Miss FosTer.)—One-half cup butter, one cup 
sugar, two eggs, one cup sweet milk, two cups pastry flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls Cleveland’s Baking Powder, one cup raisins stoned and chopped. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the well beaten eggs. Mix together the 
flour and baking powder and add the flour and milk alternately to the first 
mixture. Then add the raisins. Steam one-half hour in cups. 

Sauce.—One tablespoonful corn starch, one pint boiling water, three- 
quarters cup sugar, the juice of two lemons and the grated rind of one- 


half lemon. 


64  CLEVELAND’s Baxina PowpeEr, Purge AnD Surg. 


Jolly-Boys.—(By Mrs. Somes.)—Sift thoroughly two and one half 
heaping tablespoonfuls of yellow cornmeal, two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, one salt spoon salt, and one teaspoonful 
of Cleveland’s Baking Powder. Beat one egg and add to the dry mixture 
with enough milk to make a drop batter. Stirin quickly one-half teaspoon- 
ful of melted butter. Beat well and drop by teaspoonfuls into smoking hot 
lard. * 


Marble Cake.—(By Miss FURLONG.)—One-half cup butter, one cup 
sugar, three eggs, one teaspoonful vanilla, one-half cup of milk, two and 
one-half cups flour (pastry), two rounding teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Baking 
Powder, five rounding tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, one teaspoonful 
mixed spice. Mix and sift together the flour and baking powder. Cream 
the butter; add the sugar and cream. Beat the yolks of the eggs until 
lemon colored and thick, and add to the butter mixture. Add the flavoring 
and the milk and flour alternately, a little at a time, and lastly the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff. Melt the chocolate and let cool slightly. Add 
one-half of the dough to it and also the spices. Put a layer of the light, 
then the dark, into a medium sized cake pan, which has been previously 
lined with paper and greased with butter, until all the materials are all 
used. Bake in a moderately hot oven thirty-five or forty minutes. The 
oven should be rather cool at first and the heat increased every ten 
minutes. The cake is done when it shrinks slightly from the sides of the 
pan. The butter should be packed solidly; the flour should be put in 
lightly and not shaken when measuring. 


Orange Soufflé.—(Mrs. A. D. GILLETTE.)—Pulp and juice of two 
oranges, one-half teaspoonful orange extract, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
butter, three tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, one teaspoonful caramel, 
one-half saltspoonful salt. Beat the yolks of the eggs until light and thick. 
Beat the white of one egg until stiff, add gradually one tablespoonful of the 
sugar, fold into the yolks, add salt, spread carefully into hot buttered ome- 
let pan or chafing dish, when well puffed spread the pulp of the oranges 
over the top, spread over that the other beaten white, to which the sugar 
and extract are added gradually, when well puffed and brown, fold, sprin- 
kle on the caramel, pour over all the orange juice and serve. 


Tennessee Corn Cake.—(By Mrs. F. L. GILLETTE.)—Two tea- 
spoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, one pint Indian meal, 
one-half pint flour, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful salt, two 
eggs, one pint milk, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, Mix the dry in- 
gredients together and sift them. Add the beaten eggs to the milk. Stir 
all together. Bake twenty minutes in buttered muffin pans. 


Fruit Cookies.—(By Miss Gorpon.)— Two cups sugar, two-thirds 
cup butter, one cup chopped raisins, one-half cup water, one egg, three 
teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Baking Powder. Flavor with cloves, cinnamon 
and nutmeg. Cream the butter and sugar, add the other ingredients and 
flour enough to render it stiff enough to roll ont. Bake ina quick oven. 


e 


SUPPLEMENT. 65 


Crowns.—(By Mrs. GRayson.}—One quart sifted flour, one heaping 
teaspoonful Cleveland's Baking Powder, one tablespoonful powdered 
sugar, half teaspoonful salt, sifted together ; rub in one large tablespoon- 
ful butter. Beat an egg, add to it half a pint of sweet milk, stir quickly 
into the dry ingredients, roll half an inch thick, cut in three-inch squares, 
turn the corners to the centre, crowd close together in a shallow pan and 
bake in a hot oven. 


Doughnuts.—(By Mrs. GREEN.)—Mix well together three cups 
sifted pastry flour, two teaspconfuls Cleveland's Baking Powder, one-half 
teaspoonful salt, and one saltspoon mace. Beat one egg, add to it oue- 
nalf cup sugar, one teaspoonful melted lard and one-half’ cup milk. Mix 
with the dry ingredients, cut in rings and fry. This rule makes twenty. 


Baked Suet Pudding.—(By Miss HammonD.)—One-quarter of a 
pound of suet chopped fine, two eggs, one pint of milk, three cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland's Baking Powder, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt; and one cup of dried currants. Mix the baking powder, salt and 
flour together and sift three times, then rub in the suet and currants. 
Beat the eggs, add them to the milk, then add to the flour mixture. Bake 
in a moderate oven half an hour. Serve with a sweet sauce. A good sauce 
for it would be: one half cup of sugar, one cup of water, Boil ten min- 
utes, when cooled add two tabiespoonfuls of sherry wine, 


Fruit Scones.—(By Miss K. E. WHITAKER.)—Four cups of flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful grated nutmeg, three tablespoons butter, four tablespoons sugar, 
one cup small raisins, milk to make soft dough (about one and one-quarter 
cups). 1. Sift flour, baking powder, salt, sugar and nutmeg. 2. Rubin the 
butter. 3. Mix inthe raisins. 4. Add milk gradually until a soft dough is 
formed. 5. Turn on well floured board, divide in two parts. 6. Form each 
into a round and roll until large enough to cover a pie-plate. 7. Place 
on a greased pie-plate and with the back of a large knife divide each cake 
into eight sections. 8. Bake about twenty minutes in moderate oven. 9. 
Rub together one tablespoon sugar and one of milk and when the scones 
are baked brush them over with this syrup. 10. Place in the oyen for a 
few seconds, break apart and serve hot or cold. 


Pompton Puffs.—(By Marion HARLAND.)—Three cups of flour, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two cups of milk, 
four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one heaping teaspoonful of 
Cleveland’s Baking Powder. Sift Nour, baking powder and salt together 
twice, chop in the butter. Stir the beaten yolks into the milk and add the 
flour, then the frothed whites. Whip high and light and bake in cups in a 
quick oven. 


Invalid Cake.—(By Miss Hoper.)—Sift three-quarters cup of flour, 
ehe-quarter teaspvenful of Cleveland's Baking Powder and a speck of 


“Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder is rightly named, being 
superior to anything in that line we have ever used.” —The Household, 


66 CLEVELAND’s BAKING PowpER, Purs anp Sure. 


salt together. Put into a bowl two tablespoonfuls butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, beat them to a cream, then add the grated rind of 
halfalemon. Beattwoeggs in separate bowls, add one egg and stir in 
half the flour, then the other egg and the rest of the flour ; beat well. Pour 
the mixture into a well greased cake tin and bake in a hot oven thirty 
minutes. 


Dark Cake.—(By Mrs. HUMPHREY.)—Cream one-half cup of sweet 
waxy butter, add to it gradually one cup finest granulated sugar, beating 
all the time ; then add the yolks of two eggs well beaten, then one-quarter 
teaspoonful of mace, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon and cloves each, 
one-half teaspoonful of orange flower water. Mix well. Thenone-quarter 
cup molasses ; beatwell. Totwoand one-quarter cups of sifted pastry flour 
add one and one-half scant teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Superior Baking 
Powder, add this with one-half cup milk to the above mixture and beat till 
very smooth. Last of all beat the whites of the two eggs till dry and flaky, 
then mix all together and add one cup of currants which have been warmed 
and dusted with flour. 


Sugar Cookies.—(By Miss JOHNSON.)—Beat one cup of butter to 
a cream, add two cups of sugar and beat until light. Beat two eggs light 
without separating, and add to the butter and sugar with one-half cup of 
sweet milk. Add three teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Baking Powder to one 
cup of flour, mix with the batter, then mix with flour as soft as possible to 
roll out, the softer the better. Cut with a sharp, round cutter and bake 
until light-brown, in a quick oven, 


|! Indian Pudding.—(By Mrs. Kirtianp.)—Make a mush of fine 
cornmeal, Beat light three eggs and one pint molasses, one tablespoon- 
ful softened butter, one teaspoonfulsoda. Ginger to flayor. Stir in mush 
enough to make a thick batter. Grease and have hot your gem pan, fill 
only half full with the mixture, put a raisin on top and bake a nice brown. 
Serve with hard sauce flavored with ground cinnamon. 


Orange Cream Cake.—(By Mrs. LemMcKE.)—One-half cup but- 
ter, one cup sugar, oue-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, with 
three-quarters of a teaspoonful Cleveland’s Baking Powder. Stir butter 
and sugar to acream, beat the three whites to a stiff froth and add them 
with the sifted flour and powder, with the milk, alternately, to the creamed 
butter and sugar. Bake in two equal good sized jelly tins. 


For Fiiling.—Boil three-quarters cup milk with a pinch of salt, three 
tablespoonfuls sugar and one-half tablespoonful butter, mix one table- 
spoonful flour with one-quarter cup of milk, stir it into the boiling milk. 
Continue the boiling for a few minutes longer, remove from fire; add the 
juice of the grated rind of one orange and the juice of half a lemon and 
the yolks of three eggs. When cold, put the cream between two layers, 
pour over the top of cake a boiled glaze or dust with powdered sugar. 


Boston Cake.—(By Miss WarpD.)—One pound of flour, one pound 
of sugar, one-half pound of butter, one pound of currants, four eggs, one 
cup of milk or cream, one glass of brandy, one teaspoonful Cleveland’s 
Baking Powder. 


f 


| 


. 


SUPPLEMENT. 67 


Cornish Pasties.—(By Miss K. BE. WHITaKker.)—One-half pound 
lean beef, two potatoes, one apple, one onion, one teaspoonful salt, one- 
eighth teaspoonful pepper, two tablespoonfuls cold water, two cups flour, 
one-half teaspoon baking powder, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half cup 
cold water, one egg, one-half cup shortening. 1. Cut meat, potatoes and 
apple into small dice. 2. Grate the onion and add it and pepper and salt 
to the meat, potatoes and apples, also the water. 3. Mix them thoroughly. 
4, Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a bowl and rub in the short- 
ening. 5. Stir in enough water to make a stiff dough. 6. Roll out one- 
quarter inch thick. 7. Cut into rounds six inchesacross. 8. Place on each 
round some of the meat mixture. 9. Brush the edges with a little beaten 
egg ormilk. 10. Pinch edges together and bring them to the top of pastry, 
scallop them and brush over with egg. 11. Bake in moderate oven thirty 
minutes. 


Doughnuts.—(By Mrs. LINCOLN.)—Beat one egg, add one cup fine 
granulated sugar, and beat till very light and white. Add one cup new 
milk, without stirring. Then sift in one pint pastry flour to which has been 
added three level teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Baking Powder, one level tea- 
spoonful of salt and halfa nutmeg grated. Beat this thoroughly, then add 
quickly enough more flour to make a firm but soft dough. Roll out one- 
half inch thick, cut into rings with an open cutter, or into narrow strips, 
and twist themintoshape. Fry in half lard and half suet or beef drippings, 
and have the fat hot enough for the dough to rise to the top instantly. 
Turn them over as soon as the underside is a golden brown, and when done 
on the other side, drain them carefully. (Copyright 1891 by Cleveland Bak- 
ing Powder Co.) 


Griddle Cakes.—(By Miss LITTLez.)—Sift together one rounding 
teaspoontul Cleyeland’s Baking Powder, one cup bread flour, one-third cup 
fine yellow corn-meal and one-quarter teaspoonful salt. Add to this 
mixture one egg well beaten, and one and one-third cups milk. Beat well, 
pour from the point of a tablespoon upon a hot, well-greased griddle. This 
mixture will make twenty-eight small cakes. 


Rice Waffles.—(By Miss MCNEAR.)—Two cups flour, one-half tea- 
spoontul salt, one teaspoonful Cleveland’s Baking Powder, one egg beaten 
separately, one tablespoonful butter, one cup milk, one cup boiled rice 
(cold), one-half cup rice water. Sift the dry ingredients together into a 
bowl. Make a hole in the center, into which put the rice, and the water in 
which the rice was boiled. Add the well beaten yolk of the egg, the milk 
and the melted butter. Stir until thoroughly mixed. Beat well and add 
gently the white of the egg which has been beaten to a sti froth. Fry in 
a well greased wuille-iron. 


Raglets.—(By Mrs. RORER.)—Beat two eggs without separating, add 
to them one-half pint milk, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls sugar, two and a half cups flour. Beat 
thoroughly and add one teaspoonful of Cleveland’s Baking Powder. Fill 
this mixture into a pastry bag and press into smoking hot fat. Fry same as 


crullers. 


68 CLEVELAND’s Baking Powper, Pury AND SURE. 


Cieveland’s Baking Powder Omelet.—(By Mrs. MILLER. )— 
Beat up smooth the yolks of four eggs in a dish. Then beat up into a froth 
with a fork the whites of the four eggs 1m another dish and sprinkle on the 
same one-half teaspoonful of Cleveland’s Baking Powder. Mix the whites 
and yolks and pour into a hot pan and cook the same as for any other 
omelet. The success of the omelet is in the beating with a fork, and after 
the omelet is cooked, in getting it onto the plate in its foamy deliciousness. 


Rice Biscuit.—(By Miss MITCHELL. )—Sift together two and one-half 
cups of flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Supe- 
rior Baking Powder. Yolks of two eggs beaten lightly, three-fourths cup 
of milk, one-hal{cup of steamed or boiled rice. Cut in last the whites of 
two eggs beaten stiff. Bake in gem pans in a hot oven. 


Chicken Fritters.—(By Miss MurpHy.)—One cup of flour, one tea- 
spoonful Cleveland’s Baking Powder, one-half cup of milk, two eggs. 
Beat eggs thoroughly, add the milk. Then pour on to the flour and baking 
powder sifted together. Beat thoroughly with a wooden spoon. Cut 
chicken or veal into thin slices or take the small scraps and sprinkle with 
salt. Dip them into the batter and fry in hot fat. 


Potato Scones.—(By Miss NEvINS.)—Two cups of mashed pota- 
toes, two cups of flour, two ounces of butter, one teaspoonful salt, two tea- 
spoonfuls Cleveland's Baking Powder, suflicient milk to make a dough. 
Rub the butter into the flour, add to it the potatoes, salt and baking pow- 
der, mix with the milk into a dough and roll out about half an inch thick. 
Cut into biscuit and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 


For the Chafing Dish—‘‘ Oysters Maitre d’Hotel.’’— 
(By Miss BEDFORD.)—Rinse and thoroughly drain two dozen oysters. Put 


with one tablespoon of butter in the chafing dish. Stir carefully and when 
the edges begin to ruffle add the juice of one-half lemon, one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley. Season with salt and paprika and serve on 
squares of toast. 


Southern Pancakes.—(By Mrs. PARKER.)—Beat smooth four 
eggs, and half a pound of flour, melt four ounces of butter, add to the but- 
ter in which has been mixed a teaspoonful of Cleveland’s Baking Powder 
with one ounce of sugar and halfa pintof milk. Heat a frying pan very 
hot, grease, put in a spoonful of the batter at a time, spread evenly over 
the surface, turn until brown on both sides. 


Cleveland Seed Cookies.—{By Miss Squtre.)—Beat in a mixing 
bowl one egg light, adding gradually one cup granulated sugar with a 
Dover egg beater, add one-half cup new milk and before mixing add three 
and one-half cups sifted pastry flour and one heaping teaspoonful Cleve- 
land’s Baking Powder. Stir well, then add one-half cup melted butter and 
one teaspoonful caraway seeds. Stir till fine and white, then drop into a 
buttered dripping pan, pat out evenly with the hand, sprinkle with sugar 
and bake. Whci cold in the pan, cut into small squares and put where 
they will keep moist, 


SUPPLEMENT. 69 
! 

Fruit Pinwheels.—(By Miss PARtoa.)—Mix together and rub 
through a sieve one pint of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland’s Baking Powder. Into 
this mixture rub two generous tablespoonfuls of butter. Wet with a scant 
half pint of milk. Sprinkle the board with flour, and, putting the dough 
upon it, roll down to a large square about half an inch thick. Spread a 
heaping tablespoonful of soft butter on this and then spread with a cupful 
of sugar and acupful of currants. Grate alittle nutmeg over all, and roll 
up like a jelly roll—or pinwheel style. Cut in slices about three-quarters 
of an inch thick and lay in well buttered pans. Do not let the slices touch 
each other. Bake ina very quick oven for about twelve minutes. These are 
nice for luncheon or tea. (Copyright 1891 by Cleveland Baking Powder Co. } 


Luncheon Muffins.—(By Miss Partoa.)—For one dozen muffins 
use one pint of flour, a generous half pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls of Cleve" 
land’s Baking Powder; half a teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls of butter and two eggs. Mix the dry ingre- 
dients together and rub through a sieve. Melt the butter. Beat the eggs 
till light and add the milk to them. Add this mixture to the dty ingre- 
dients ; then stir in the melted butter. Beat the batter vigorously for a few 
seconds and then put in buttered muffin pans and bake for about twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. (Copyright 1391 by Cleveland Baking Powder Co. , 


Old-Fashioned Johnny Cake.—(By Miss Potson.)—One cup 
flour, one cup fine yellow corn meal, one-fourth cup sugar, one and one- 


half teaspoonfuls salt, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Baking Powder, one 
egg well beaten, one cup milk, one tablespoonful butter, softened. Mix in 
order given, beat well, pour into a well-greased pan and bake in a mod- 
erate oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. 


London Buns.—(By Miss PULCIFER.)—Three cups flour, one-half 
cup butter, three eggs, one cup milk, speck of salt, five tablespoontfuls 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, two table- 
spoonfuls candied peel (orange, lemon, citron, etc.), grated rind of 
one-half lemon, grated rind of one-half orange. Mix flour, salt, sugar and 
baking powder together and sift three times; rub in the butter with tips 
of the fingers. Add the well beaten eggs, saving out one tablespoonful 
of egg to paint the bunns with. Add the milk slowly, cutting it in with a 
knife, then add the candied peel, cut in small pieces and well flavored, also 
the grated lemon and orange rind. Mix well, place in well buttered tins. 
Add one teaspoonful cold milk to the one tablespoonful egg saved from the 
bunns and paint them over well. Bake in hot oven one-quarter hour. 
This quantity will make fifteen bunns. Serve hot. 


Squash Pie.—(By Miss ReEED.)—Line and ‘rim a plate with pastry. 
Fill with one and one-half cups stewed and sifted squash, one cup sugar 
mixed with one saltspoon each of ginger and cinnamon and one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, one egg beaten, one cup boiling milk. Bake one hour, 


— Two eggs, one eup sugaGy 
Sponge Cookles.—(By Miss RoBERTS.)— 

Ad ely ere baking powder (rounding), one-half saltspoonful salt, twe 
teaspoonfuls lemon juice or one teaspoonful yanilla. Flour to roll, 


IN Eee 


Table of Weights and Measures 
Time Required for Cooking Meats, Vegetables, etc. 


Bread & Break- 
fast Cakes. 


PAGE. 
Astor House Rolls... 48 
Batter Cakes........ 51 
Biscaitssee te eevee ++ AD 
Bread, Boston Brown 47 
“ Brown .......+- 47 
SS” Corman cette dems 49 
SO" GLE a emis SO 
‘‘.Peptikiier. 2: 46, 47 
“ Peptik Graham 47 
** Yeast. . 47 
Breakfast Cake, “Ger- 
TAT Foie. siete aharart 52 
Breakfast nee seg OD, 
Brow n Br ‘gad Cane 47 
(Boston) 47 
Buckwheat Cakes... 51 
Buns, London....... 69 
Cakes, Batter ....... 51 
‘© Buckwheat... dl 
“« German 
Breakfast... 52 
cr Griddle s:-- ek 
Corn Bread (four)... 49 
Corn:Maflins;. ...\..-.. 49 
Cream Toast........ 52 
Crowns TV ee 65 
Crum petsin mae sens 50 
Hee Rolls... se redaeare 48 
English Muflins...... 50 
Gems, Oatmeal...... 50 
German Breakfast | 
Cake. ios, sn.5.0cetne 52 
German Puffs........ 50 
Gluten Bread........ 48 
o Mumingysa «vis. 48 
Graham Mufiins..... 49 
Be Pus. ee . 49 
Griddle Cakes....51, 67 
Indian Pancakes.. eal 
Johnny Cake.. 4 


PAGE. 
Pancakes, Southern, 68 


Parker House Kolls.. 48 
Peptik Bread........ 47 
** Graham Bread. 47 
POPOVOLS s\cisisiescos eins 50 
TOPPCUSs.ss:tnclce oes a7 61 
Potato Scones....... 68 
Puffs, German....... 
ee LORAIN. ceca 49 
ee* EOUIPUGL feleicie 65 
| Rice Biscuit i 
“*  Mufiins 5 


i) Gluten.) (2 48 
és Graham 49 
ae Luncheon... 69 
oh RICA ti cae 50 
Oatmeal Gems..... . 50 
Pancakes, Buck- 
LOD Elcis clogs, Serene 
Pancakes, Indian.... a |D 


“T have used ClesManite baki 
certainly is the best.”—Mrs. 8. 


Wattles .. 


ROIS. cae c eee oeom ante 
“ Astor House... 48 
BOY) Salts dh ole ustniets 48 

* Parker House.. 48 
Rusk (two receipts).. 48 
ALLY VA ses cine sie 50 
Scones 2.055... 51, 65, 68 
Snow (Balls: s.sc28.<0 51 
Southern Pancakes.. 68 
Tennessee Corn Cake 64 
Toast, Cream........ 52 
Wattles 21 ooo ecile ares 51 

Ss RICE. see's 51, 67 

Cakes. 
Almond (two) ....... 38 
ASO] FAs tetas. cee . 38 

**. Charlotte’. 25: 688 
Belden sancriesareccenc 62 
BOStOW... ecaakcucsee 66 
Centennial Washing- 

OTL ersieiae silaataebestciont 40 
Citron Pound ........ 40 
Chocolates. ssae see 33 

és (Cinnamon) 39 

a BAY ORs. cele 39 

or Mar Sa . 39 
Cocoanut (two)....39, 40 
Cocoanut ee - 44 
Coffee... ear ee 39 
Cold Water.......... 39 
Cookies . .44, 64, 66, 70 
Cocoanut.. . 44 

of Sores wen ars 44 

ss Thin aes 44 
Corn Starch.. . 39 
Cream, Lemon.. oy 41 
Cream Puffs.......... 45 
Croquignoles........ 62 
ae ers fora) hesitaieaze 44 


M. 


eh Ce Mase Nee 
acetone tale cet noes 17 
PAGE. 
Delicate::....:...-. =H 


Delicate and Fruit.. 
Delicate Spice....... 43 
eles Pee cee BO Os) 
Everton . ide avSietejon Ol 
igre cen sme eeeceeeees 41 
FYOSHN EG. ices «\ciewls 46 
3 ORD ise tance 46 
i Gugvel hae Abe acs oonaniges 40 
60 COOKIES hen ca 64 
«© Ohio. oad! 
** Pinwheels...... 69 
cS SWeAGing codes 41 


Gingerbread, Soft (2) 45 
Ginger bread, »Ssponge a 
Ginger Snaps (two).. 


ee Rochester i 
ELCYMUIDS oie ea eae ee 
Hickory-nut........ aa 

Es Kisses.. 45 
Ice Cream......... -- 41 
IGine’ {HW OY senccltee as 46 
Invahidinash aye ascere 65 
Jelly, Lemon...... ne 42 

Ste SOLES SIEGE, fe chee AL 
JOY Boys 29. stestee s 64 
Lemon Cream....... 4] 

Fira SOU. 2 neh ee 
Marble eer: esrss 39, 64 
Minnehaha:. <icis'scn< 42 
eben gue apoE 
wou nidion se meiteaines 42 
Ohio HmiGs. ween esse 41 
One-EggLunchCake, 62 
Orange (two)........ 42 
Orange Cream ...... 66 
40 | 

-. 

. 43 


Rochester 
Snaps.. 


a4 aeeceead: 
Roll Jelly Teme oh oak 
Sand Tarts...... Sooo gd 
Seed Cookies...... seg08 
Snippidoodles....... 61 
Spice (two).......... 43 
Spice Drop Cake.... 45 
Sponge......... ceeee 43 
eS. YBoUed a... 4. sands 
SS | Cookiessenct: 69 
«Gingerbread, 45 
Sugar Cookies....... 66 
Swedish Cake........ 62 
Tritles . 


ones ee 
Wafers, Walnut..... 45 


ng poibder for ten years and it 


PAGE. 
Washington Centen- 
MISLL sats ale discs o siareaie 
Watermelon.... 
Wedding Fruit. i 
White Perfection.... 42 


Candy. 
Butter Scotch........ 56 
Molasses Candy..... 56 
Coffee, Tea, &c. 
WPOMOG. « cscloateleres'sia'e 55, 56 
GR on ure aeration. diorste 
Chocolate... Perea e OO 
Raspberry Shrub.... 56 

Desserts. 
Apple Snow.......+. 33 
Bavarian Cream.... 33 


Bohemian Cream ... 34 
CharlotteRusse (two) 33 
Chocolate Ice Cream 35 


Coffee Jelly.......... 36 
Cream, Bavarian.... 33 
be Bohemian... 34 

a Russian...... 34 

«« Spanish...... 34 

ss Strawberry .. 34 
Custard, Baked ..... 33 
Soufllé ..... 33 

Floating Island.. 35 
Frozen Milk Punch.. 35 


Frozen Peaches..... 37 
Fruit Ice Cream..... 35 
Fruit Tapioca........ 37 
Ice Cream, Chocolate 35 
Fruit 

Pine RABI 35 

as maple . 35 


Ice, Lemon.. een 
sf Tapioca. . Seat (Od 
FOL Yee gem tias . 94 36 
OO", Coleen 52. . 36 
6©* Orange veces. 00,36 


“ Strawber ry “¢ 
“Tutti Fructi.... 36 


Lemon, Ice...... 35 
ss Tapioca 37 
Orange 1 OLL Yar verse atet 36 
Omelet..... . 36 

rh Soufflé...... . 6 
Peaches, Frozen..... 37 


PineAppleleeCr eam, 35 
Sherbet... 36 
Raspberry Sponge... 34 
Rice . sisiemee 
Russian Cream..... 
Sherbet, Pine Apple, 36 
<a Strawberry, 37 
Spanish Cream...... 34 
Strawberry Cream.. 3+ 


INDEX. 


PAGE. 


Strawberr y Jelly... 36 | 


she: onge. 34 
“ Lerbet, 37 
Syllabub..... By, 
apioca, Ice.. 37 
Fruit... 37 

ie Lemon..... 37 


Tutti Frutti Jelly.... 36 
Vanilla Ice Cream.. . 30 
Washington Pie..... 63 


Dinner Menus. 


Christmas Dinner. . 59 
Plain Dinners. 59 
Thanksgivy’ ¢ Dinners 59 


Entrees. 
Apple Fritters....... 18 
Banana Fritters..... 61 


Chicken Cr pane ties, 18 
be: Fritters.... 68 


Clam Fritters...... s--A8 
Clams, Scalloped.... ic 
Corn Fritters...%.... 
Croquettes (5)..18, 19, 20 
Deviled Crabs....... 19 
Fish Croquettes...... 19 
Fricasseed Lobster.. 19 
Fritters (five)..... 18, 19 
Lobster Croquettes.. 19 
Omelet ne. - sce os 19, 6 
Oyster Fritters...... 20 
ss Omelet ...... 19 
Rice Croquettes..... 20 
Sausage Roll......... 20 


Scalloped Clams.. . 18 


Sweet-Bread Cro- 
Quettes ....v..eeee . 20 
Fish and Meat 

Sauces. 
toe bu Butter... ....~ 22 
ee Sauce........... 22 


Hint SanOe jade wd «s 
Oyster Sauce.......- 23 
Tartare Sauce..... . 23 
Tomato Sauce....... 23 


For the Invalid’s 
Tray. 


Beef Tea, Long Made 57 
St Quickly Made 57 
“ Raw.. ape OU 
Broth, Mutton... me eeehve 
Chicken Tea......-.- 58 
Dried Flour...... 


Flaxseed eR varie etOo 
Infant Food.. .» 58 
Jelly Water.. 92 08: | 
Lime Water. see oo 


Mutton Broth........ 58 
RiCG. . sere a. 67, 
Toast... . 5T 
Toast Water.. Brea tis 
Wafer Biscuits...... 56 
Nieats. 

Beef Olives.......... 10 
Beef Stew 

Dumplings 10 


Chicken Pie.. 
Chicken, Fried 


Jellied..... 11 

se Pressed.... 12 

*s Smothered, 12 
Cornish Pasties...... 67 


Creamed Dried Beef, 11 
English Yorkshire 


Padding ns. -.c cre 13 
Filet of Beef........ 11 
For Roast Meats. ... 13 
Fried Chicken....... 11 
Ham Patties......... 12 
How to Boil a Ham, 12 
Jellied Chicken..... 11 
Meéat Balls... 2... 12 
Mushroom Sauce.... a 


Pot Pie Dumplings. . 

Pot Roast Beef ..... 1 
Pressed Chicken.... 12 
Roast Calf’s Liver... 12 
Russian Baked Liver, 13 
Smothered Chicken. 12 
Stewed Beefala Mode 10 
Stewed wants neon 
Veal Loaf.......++. i. 12 


Oysters and Fish. 


Baked Fish.......... 8 
Clam Chowder.....- 7 
Codfish Balls......-- 7 
Cream Salmon .....- 9 


22 | Greamed Oysters.... 8 


Fish Chowde 


23 | Little Pigs in Blan- 


kets 
Lobsteraia Newburg 8 
OystersilaNewburg 8 
Oyster wet ger for 
PUEEOy. - 9 
Roast ysters ‘on. 
TOABE...56 oe sinone see's 
Salmon, Cream.. 
Scalloped Oysters... 
Steamed Oysters on 
T0ast oi... sesereeee 
Turbot & la Gréme.. 9 


oww 


Pickles. 
Beets, Pickled....... 52 
' Catsup, Tomato..... 53 


72 

PAGE. 
Ghiliesance... cakes ws 
Chow Chow......- +++ 52 
Eggs, Pickled... 52 
Mrs. D. *s Pickles .... 53 
Muskmelon Pickle.. 53 
Peaches, Pickled.... 53 
Sweet Pickles........ 5 


Tomato Catsup. 
Tomato Soy 


Watermelon Pickle.. 53 
Pies. 
Apple Pie, Sliced... 30 
Cocoanut Pie WO Ge.) 31 
Curran Lie anes. = 31 
Custard sPiciz witepic 31 
Lemon Pie (three)... 31 
Mince Meat.......... 31 
Mince Pie (two)..... 32 
Orange Pie (two).... 32 
Pastry (two).......-- 30 
Peach Pie... .7.aens ve 32 
Pull Paste. :. .casaes's 30 
Pumpkin Pie.. 32 
Squash Pie........ Bo 69 


Preserves and 
Jellies. 


Brandied Peaches... 55 
Crab Apple Jelly.... 54 
Currants, Spiced. . . 55 


Gooseberries,Spic ed, e 


Peaches, Brandied. . 
Strawberries, Pre- 
SOVy CG. etauan cae 55 
To Make Jelly....... 54 
Puddings. 
AMPA Yiz «nos senate 23 
Apple See eae einekelebsts tat 23 
: Dutch ........ 24 
Se ADIOS ac aan 23 
Baked Apple Dump- 
linghiesseee SSOn wie 24 
BSOLT Vere ss ovis eraiore 24, oe 


Blackberry Bread.. 

BlueberryShor teake, 38 
Boston .. 24 
Brown Bett 


_ Cherry or Blackberry 


a." 


~~ 


LEG ee 24 
COMOCOlAtG A on sasen 24 


Mristiias co. c= ta vole 25 
Cocoanut... cas ete. « 25 
MROUUAIEC ss oe ow meinen 25 
WPEROK OY ss. sce civics ee 26 
Cranberry .......... . 63 
Bp onice.. 3, EaSaP oe ose 25 

spunea Vive 2d 
Dute mEpee spare 24 
English . 25 


INDEX. 

PAGE. 

Favorite... 2... 2.05 wae 
Feather Crust........ 61 
Wie Gotan a aCe Spe 20 
Frosted Lemon...... 26 
Tins letbne fae Larrea! 26 
Graham wieGeases te eo 
THETA seticscat crs ¢.o%.00 66 
TACT OU Aoacae)- > velcorae's 26 
Orange Pudding.. 26 


Orange EnON, Pud- 
ding .. 8 
Peach 


I OOUAZE: es vei 
“BU OMpSitt feeue es 
Poor Mansi. 02s 
Pies Sititsye:s'o ele woke 
PYUBGs 535 eee onan > 


Queen of endalings-y 


ae IP uns... «css sian toe 
Uitte boot oacopbod 27 
Bhorte ake (three)... 28 
Brow) ise ieeecen oe 27 
Spanish Toast....... 28 
Spouse cicce seek 28 
Steamed Berry...... 24 
se Cr case th 63 
horas berryShortc’ke 28 
A Scio tato oo 28, 65 
Sweet Shortcake.... 28 
Tapioca ........6.+. 28 
iC Betas Aco 23 
Venoise .. 28 
Whortleberry Sacre 29 
5| Pudding Sauces. 
Cream Sauce ........ 29 
Excellent Fadding 
SaAUGCE A. sceismntes ae 29 
Finit Sauce’ . «0. ssi 29 
Hard Sauces. ...-5...< 29 
Lemon Sauce... . 29 
No. 2... 30 
Plain Sauce ......... 30 
Strawberry Sauce... 30 
Substitute forCream, 29 
Wine Sauce.......... 30 
Salads. 
Cabba,; e Salad ...... 20 
Conrad’s Sweet Po- 
tato Salado. cu: 2 21 
Bee Salads. cr. e 08 21 
French Dressing.... 22 


GermanPotatoS: vlad, 
Lettuce Dressing... 
Lobster Salad ....... 
Mayonnaise Dress- 
Ing (tWO) ccc ee 
Oyster Salad. .c3. 5.7 
Potato Salad ........ 
“A (German). 
Salad Dressing...... 
Sardine Salad...... 


21 


31 


21 
21 
22 
7 OL 


de bary 
Shrimp Salad...... 
Sweet Potato Salad. . 31 
Soups. 
(AM DEL eee cleetee’s ri ti) 
Asparagus ao 5 
BOAN: a5 eee etek vos 
Bouillon...... Aopen 
COLGTY arama obese 6 
ME GN'T) ctotsiete afeiwtols eisieree a) 
Glarmiisen . create cass 6 
«(Lotus Club). 6 
WLOWSLOT 42cm cela siiee 6 
Mock Bisque........ 5 
Mock 'Turiletc icc ccr Vi 
Gyster ace: « BOO un 6 
Potato wndeaceemes aie 7 
Split Pea 6 
Tomato..... ‘ ff 
Vegetables. 
Wsparaguseesasincnsne 14 
(eo CBE an oo cuibontisarc 13 
Beets er. aa vacwicect 13 
Cabbage: seh weve vce . 14 
Cauliflower....... ape t 
ColdiSla we, eeukeead 14 
Corns Staite 14 
Cranberries ......... 14 
Creamed Potatoes... 14 
Egg Plant ,....-%.... 14 
Minced Spinach..... 15 
OMOns ees. cece ee 14 
Parsnip Balls.. . 14 
PITA a sccieye stem ccteas Be It 
IPOLADOCS oe 5. soca 14, 15 
Potato Croquettes... 14 
Roasted Potatoes 
with Beef.......... 15 
Rhubarb: eaaececic « 15 
Sacked Potatoes.... 15 
Saratoga Potatoes... 15 
Scalloped P) les... 13 
Scalloped | nions, 
Cauliflower or As- 
PALACUR es tee ree < 14 
Scalloped Potatoes.. 15 
Spinach wacdess snes 15 
Succotash.. vans oad 
Time for Cooki 
Vegetables... 
Tomatoes... 
Turnips a la ‘Créme.. 15 


Welsh Rarebit, &c. 


Baked Biscuit and 
Cheéseii ence. sce 10 
Cheese Fondu....... 16 
Macaroni with 
Cheese.........095. 16 
Spaghetti............ 16 
elsh Rarebit....... 16 


Why Cleveland’s Baking Powder 
is better than 
“Cream of Tartar and Soda.” 


Cleveland’s Baking Powder is a pure, cream of tartar 
baking powder, all its ingredients being refined to perfect 
purity. Itis well known that most of the cream of tartar 
of the market, which must be used when the housewife 
makes her own mixture, is adulterated, some even as high 
as go per cent. : 


In Cleveland’s Baking Powder the strength of each 

ingredient is carefully ascertained by chemical analysis, and 

__ just the right proportions are used to develop all the strength, 
so each teaspoonful produces the same result. 

The best cook in the world cannot have uniform success with cream of tar- 


tar and soda obtainable in the market, because not knowing their strength 
she cannot get the right proportion. 


The ingredients are compounded with scientific 
accuracy, so that each spoonful does perfect work. 
The real economy in using Cleveland’s Baking Powder is in the fact that only 


two teaspoonfuls are required to do the same work as three teaspoonfuls of 
the home made mixture, that is, two of cream of tartar and one of soda. 


Use Cleveland’s Baking Powder once according 

* to directions, and you will never go back to the old 

_fashioned way again. It should be remembered 

_ that Cleveland’s Baking Powder is superior to the 

home made mixture, not because it is a baking pow- 

der, but because it is a pure cream of tartar and 
soda combination. 

There are many baking powders in the market adulterated with alum 
and ammonia, and when we reflect on the vast number of these adulterated 
powders, we should not wonder that dyspepsia and kindred complaints are 
so common, or that the dividends of some manufacturers reach hundreds of 
thousands of dollars each year. 


In all receipts calling for two teaspoonfuls cream 
of tartar and one of soda, use two teaspoonfuls 
Cleveland’s Superior Baking Powder, and the results 
will be moré uniform and satisfactory. 


* Cleveland’s baking powder has given better satisfaction than 
any other I haveever uscd. It lasts longer and gives better results.” 
—A. J. H, Mog Ca. 


= 


Cleveland’s Baking Powder, 


manufactured originally by Cleveland Brothers, Albany, N. Y., 
now by the Cleveland Baking Powder Co., New York. 


has been used by American housewives for over a third of 
a century, and those who have used it longest praise it 


most. 


It is perfectly pure and wholesome. 

Its ingredients have been by long experience proved most 
efficient for oven purposes. 

It is always uniform and reliable. 

It is the strongest of all pure, cream of tartar powders, as 
shown by the U.S. and Canadian Govt. Reports. 

All the leading teachers of cookery and writers on 
domestic science use and recommend it, as: 


Mrs. Sarah T. Rorer, 
Prin. Philadelphia Cooking School, and 
Cookery Editor Ladies’ Home Journal, 


Juliet Corson, Founder of the 
New York Cooking School. 


Miss Fannie M. Farmer, 
Principal Boston Cooking School. 


Marion Harland, Author of 
“‘Common Sense in the Household.” 


Only rounded spoonfuls of 
Cleveland’s Baking Powder 


are required, 


Mrs, Emma P. Ewing, 
Prin. Chautauqua School of Cookery. 


Mrs. D. A. Lincoln, 
Author of ‘‘ Boston Cook Book.” 


Mrs. Eliza R. Parker, Author of 
“*Economical Housekeeping.” 


Miss Kate E. Whitaker, 
Supt. of Cookery in Public Schools, 
San Francisco, 


not heaping 


spoonfuls. 


