Vol.  Ill,  No.  6 


July,  1979 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 


City  Petitioners  Take  the  Initiative 


By  Steve  Steinberg 

It's  petition -signing  time  in 
San  Francisco! 

You  can  now  lend  your  John 
Hancock  to  a  slew  of  proposals 
attempting  to  win  a  hearing  before 
the  voters. 

Already  qualified  for  the  No- 
vember ballot  is  a  measure  to 
limit  highri8e  construction  down- 
town, and  now  gathering  signa- 
tures are  petitions  to  disband  the 
police  vice  squad,  do  away  with 
the  sewer  tax,  eliminate  Muni 
fares,  increase  the  taxes  now 
levied  on  business,  and  resurrect 
the  at-large  system  of  electing 
Supervisors. 

A  coalition  of  activists  will 
also  be  trying  to  qualify  a  housing 
reform  package. 


Sculptor/potter  Ruby  O' Burke 
stands  in  the  shadow  of  one  of 
her  favorite  works:  a  totem 
pole  depicting  the  first  77  years 
of  her  life. 


No  Fa^e  on  Muni 

The  proposed  charter  amend- 
ment that  would  eliminate  Muni 
fares  has  been  put  forth  not  as  a 
freebie  to  the  citizenry,  but  as  a 
means  of  alleviating  the  city's 
transportation  problems.  Michael 
Caldwell,  author  of  the  petition, 
feels  that  by  doing  away  with  fares, 
Muni  will  be  able  to  streamline 
service  and  handle  more  passen- 
gers, thereby  taking  people  out  of 
their  cars  and  out  of  the  gas  lines. 

Money  from  the  fare  box  pre- 
sently provides  30  percent  of  the 
revenue  Muni  needs  to  operate. 
The  other  70  percent,  said  Cald- 
well, comes  from  property  taxes. 
Caldwell  believes  the  lost  revenue 
can  be  made  up  by  state  and  feder- 
al funds  (and  by  the  elimination  of 

Ruby  Throwing 
Strong  at  82 

By  Corey  Michaels 

The  house  at  552  Noe  St.  is 
jammed  with  pottery.    Pots  and 
vases  fill  every  nook  and  cranny 
on  the  first  floor.   Clay  figurines 
and  a  two- foot  Tibet  monk  com- 
pete with  endless  wood  sculptures 
on  the  second  Qoor. 

And  there's  even  more  in  the 
basement.    Rows  upon  rows  of 
bowls,  saucers  and  floral  ar- 
rangements await  their  turn  in 
the  brick  kiln. 

The  basement  is  also  home 
for  the  gallery  where  Ruby 
O' Burke,  one  of  California's 
foremost  potters,  keeps  her 
prized  collection,  which  includes 
her  very  first  creation. 

Artists  from  across  the  state 
travel  to  the  pottery  workshop  of 
O' Burke,  82  spry  years  old  on 
July  11  but  still  possessed  of  the 
hands  of  a  surgeon,  a  razor-sharp 
sense  of  humor,  and  a  practical 
approach  toward  aging  gracefully. 

Even  with  a  bob  of  silver  hair, 
O' Burke  is  well  under  five  feet 
tall.   She  has  tiny  but  strong  hands 
that  easily  hold  clay  weighing 
several  pounds,  and  she  has  such  a 
vigorous  spirit  that  many  people 
are  astounded  when  they  discover 
her  age. 

O'  Burke  opened  the  workshop 
on  Noe  Street  11  years  ago  be- 
cause "I  wanted  everyone  else  to 
get  as  much  fun  out  of  life  as  I 
was. »  She  has  no  idea  how  many 
people  have  visited  her  gallery- 
workshop,  but  if  pressed,  will 
guesstimate  the  figure  at  well 
over  10,000. 

The  workshop  currently  has  40 
students  and  three  instructors. 
Ruby,  as  everyone  calls  her  today, 
confines  her  teaching  activities  to 

(Continued  on  Page  8) 


costs  associated  with  fare  collec- 
tion).  But  City  government  will 
have  to  act  to  get  those  funds. 

"If  City  officials  are  prepared 
to  hustle  a  little,  "  Caldwell  said, 
"San  Francisco  can  have  a  no- 
fare  public  transportation  system 
at  no  additional  cost  to  the  tax- 
payer. " 

Caldwell's  amendment  would 
exempt  cable  cars  because  of 


their  value  as  a  tourist  attraction 
and  their  high  accident  and  main- 
tenance costs. 

A  restaurant  owner  who  was 
prompted  by  the  current  gas  crisis 
to  draw  up  his  "no  fares"  petition, 
Caldwell  also  feels  the  amendment 
will  continue  the  trend  set  by 
Prop.  13  to  decrease  the  size  of 
government. 

(Continued  on  Page  4) 


1*? 


The  Acme  Flute  Man  opened  his  box  at  last  month's  Noe 
Valley  Street  Fair.   More  inside!  See  page  6. 


Q  &  A  on  Rent  Law 

The  rent  freeze  has  been  lifted,  but  the  City's  new  rent  ordinance 
which  became  effective  June  13  provides  recourse  for  tenants  whose 
landlords  raise  rents  above  certain  guidelines.   The  following  is  a 
question  and  answer  review  of  the  ordinance,  taken  from  an  extract 
prepared  by  the  City  Attorney's  Office.   It  should  be  noted  that  the 
ordinance  places  the  burden  of  action  on  the  tenant  to  request  a  hearing 
if  the  rent  is  raised  above  the  guideline  amount. 

WHAT  ARE  THE  RENT  INCREASE  GUIDELINES? 

Landlords  may  raise  the  rents  as  much  as  they  wish.  However, 
if  the  increase  exceeds  the  guidelines  below,  the  tenant  has  a  right  to 
complain  to  the  newly  created  Residential  Rent  Stabilization  and  Arbi- 
tration Board,  to  prevent  imposition  of  that  part  of  the  increase  which 
exceeds  the  guidelines.   The  guidelines  apply  only  when  the  existing 
tenant  was  a  tenant  during  the  entire  period  named.   They  are: 

1)  A  landlord  who  has  not  raised  a  tenant's  rent  between  April  15, 

1977,  and  April  14,  1979,  can  give  an  immediate  19%  increase  to  that 
tenant. 

2)  A  landlord  who  has  not  raised  a  tenant's  rent  between  April  15, 

1978,  and  April  14,  1979,  can  give  an  immediate  13%  increase  to  that 
tenant. 

(Continued  on  Page  2) 


Therapists  Come  Out  on  Top 


By  unanimous  vote,  the  Board 
of  Supervisors  has  overturned  the 
City  Planning  Commission  and 
decided  that  Noe  Valley  Psycho- 
therapy Associates  can  remain  in 
its  new  headquarters. 

The  11  to  0  vote  means  that  the 
five  neighborhood  psychothera- 
pists can  continue  practicing  on 
the  .second  and  third  floors  of 
4112  -  24th  St.  in  a  building  they 
purchased  and  renovated  for  the 
purpose  recently. 

Planning  Commissioners  in 
June  turned  down  the  psychothera- 
pists' request  for  a  conditional 
use  permit  to  stay  there  because 


the  new  zoning  for  24th  Street 
prohibits  non-  residential  uses 
above  street  level  in  order  to  pro- 
tect the  housing  supply. 

The  same  neighborhood  advo- 
cates who  fought  for  that  new 
zoning  backed  the  psychotherapists 
as  a  worthy  exception,  however. 

Supervisors  attached  three  con- 
ditions to  their  okay:  that  no  other 
type  of  business  be  run  from  the 
office,  that  residential  utilities 
be  restored  to  the  offices  when  the 
building  is  sold  so  the  space  can 
be  re-converted  to  residential  use, 
and  that  no  exterior  signs  go  above 
the  first  Qoor. 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 


Raffle  Winners 


The  Noe  Valley  Voice  raffle  at  last  month's  street  fair  was  a  big 
success  and  we  thank  everyone  who  participated.   Congratulations  to 
all  the  winners,  too!   First  prize  of  a  KLH  stereo  system,  donated  by 
24th  Street  Component  Shop,  and  $100  was  awarded  to  Bob  Hunter. 
Nicole  Bengiveno,  Rosemarie  Buenrostro  and  Lisa  Feldman  each  won 
$50  savings  accounts  at  Olympic  Savings  and  Loan.   And  Ed  Leavitt 
should  be  sporting  a  new  haircut  and  perm,  courtesy  of  Shear  Delight. 
Our  "Starving  Artist"  prize  of  an  Eko  guitar,  donated  by  Ital-Musica, 
was  won  by  Ral  Pheno. 

The  other  winners  were  John  Aguiar,  Andy  Baker,  Ken  Blackford, 
Mark  Bornstein,  Cris  Calhoun,  Frank  Co rtopassi,  Lon  Daniels,  Peter 
Day,  Diana  Dusich,  Marianne  Eberle,  Sue  Englander,  Michael  Gest, 
Marvin  Gilbreath,  Joe  Grasso,  Lee  Greever,  Kathy  Grener,  Lydia 
Guard,  Peter  Kehoe,  Koleen  King,  John  Knox,  Lynn  Ludlow,  Walt 
Lynott,  Mary  McGrath,  Tom  Mo  ran,  Ron  and  Barbara  Pevny,  Jill 
Pilaroscia,  Margo  Rila,  John  Riley,  Stephanie  Roger,  Janice  Roland, 
Camilla  Sewol,  Carol  Shields,  Linda  Siker,  John  Sof»~  oac,  Paulann 
Steinberg,  Rob  Trent,  Shirley  Vernon,  Linda  Wallac     Helen  Walsh, 
Bill  Weiser  and  Doyle  Williams. 


Q& A 


(Continued  from  Page  1) 


3)  A  landlord  who  has  given  any  rent  increases  to  his  tenant  between 
April  15,  1977,  and  April  14,  1979,  may  only  give  an  immediate  in- 
crease if,  within  the  past  12  months,  he  has  given  his  tenant  less  than  a 
7%  increase.  In  any  event,  the  total  increase  or  increases  for  that  ten- 
ant in  a  given  12 -month  period  cannot  exceed  7%. 

4)  If  a  landlord  gave  more  than  a  15%  increase  to  a  tenant  between 
April  15,  1978,  and  April  14,  1979,  the  7%  increase  granted  for  this 
year  must  be  reduced  by  the  percentage  over  15%.   Example:  A  tenant 
received  a  20%  increase  on  July  1,  1978.   On  July  1,  1979,  the  guide- 
line for  any  rent  increase  is  only  2%  (20%-15%  =  5%;  7%-5%  =  2%). 

WHICH  TENANTS  ARE  COVERED? 

All  tenants  except  those  living  in  the  following  units: 

1)  Hotels,  motels  and  rooming  houses,  unless  the  tenant  has  lived 
there*for  more  than  60  days; 

2)  Buildings  with  four  or  fewer  units  in  which  the  building  owner 
lives  in  one  of  the  units. 

3)  Buildings  which  are  substantially  rehabilitated  and  the  work  com- 
pleted on  or  after  June  14,  1979.  (The  work  must  be  more  than  cosmetic.) 

4)  Newly  constructed  buildings  first  occupied  on  or  after  June  14 
1979. 

5)  Government  owned  or  regulated  units;  non-profit  cooperatives 
owned  by  a  majority  of  the  residents;  hospitals;  extended  care  facilities; 
school  dormitories,  etc. 

DOES  THE  LAW  COVER  SERVICES? 

Yes.  Additional  charges  for  services  such  as  garage  rental,  or  a 
reduction  in  services,  or  transfer  of  utility  billing  to  the  tenant,  are 
considered  a  rent  increase. 

HOW  DOES  THE  LAW  APPLY  TO  LEASES? 

All  oral  or  written  leases  entered  into  on  or  after  June  13,  1979, 
for  the  renewal  of  a  tenancy  are  covered.  Note:  Rents  for  vacant 
units  are  not  covered  until  the  tenant  receives  his  first  rent  increase. 

If  a  tenant  is  asked  to  sign  a  lease  renewal  with  an  increase  greater 
than  the  guideline  amount,  he  should  pay  the  amount  within  the  guideline, 
request  a  hearing  as  to  the  amount  above  the  guideline,  and  refrain 
from  signing  the  lease  until  the  matter  has  been  resolved. 

WHAT  ABOUT  RENT  RAISES  FOR  CAPITAL  IMPROVEMENTS? 

To  raise  rents  to  cover  the  cost  of  capital  improvements  or  rehabi- 
litation work,  the  landlord  files  an  application  with  the  City  Real  Estate 
Department,  and  the  tenants  are  notified  by  the  Department  that  they  may 
file  written  objections  to  the  application.  The  Department  sends  out  an 
estimator  to  see  the  work  done  and  to  determine  whether  the  proposed 
increases  are  fair  for  the  work  done  and  if  not,  what  increases  would  be 
fair.  The  Department  notifies  the  landlord  and  all  tenants  of  its  decision 
by  mail. 

The  landlord  may  go  ahead  and  raise  rents  beyond  the  amounts  cer- 
tified in  the  letter,  but  the  tenants  may  then  complain  to  the  Board. 

MAY  RENTS  BE  RAISED  TO  COVER  HIGHER  UTILITY  COSTS? 

Yes.   A  landlord  may  raise  rents  without  regard  to  the  guidelines 
and  a  tenant  cannot  complain  to  the  Board  if  the  increase  is  to  cover 
higher  utility  costs  (gas,  electricity,  water,  garbage,  sewer,  etc.). 


29th  Street  and  Dolores 
648-9845 
Our  Specialties 
Banana  Daiquiris  and  Pifta  Coiadas 


TUCCEYS 
Hardware  for  the  handyman 
Denny  Ciovannol 


3885  24«h  Street 
San  Francisco,Ca.  94114 
415  282-5081 


Tile! 


Letters^ 


EDITOR: 

We  need  a  second  stop  sign  in- 
stalled at  the  intersection  of  23rd 
and  Sanchez  Streets.   I  have  ob- 
served near  accidents  daily,  many 
of  them  involving  children. 

Though  there  is  a  stop  sign  on 
Sanchez,  which  runs  north  and 
south,  this  is  not  enough.  Vehi- 
cles traveling  east/west  on  23rd 
are  often  speeding  and  must  enter 
the  intersection  before  cars  or 
pedestrians  are  visible. 

I  have  collected  90  petition  sig- 
natures from  my  neighbors  living 
within  one-half  block  of  23rd  and 
Sanchez,  but  more  support  is 
needed. 

Write  District  5  Supervisor 
Harry  Britt  c/o  City  Hall. 

Write  Jeffrey  Lee,  Director, 
Department  of  Public  Works. 

And  drop  your  name  and  ad- 
dress in  my  mailbox  at  962  San- 
chez and  I  will  forward  it  with 
the  petition.   Thank  you. 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 
1021  Sanchez  Street 
San  Francisco  94114 

The  Noe  Valley  Voice  is  an  inde- 
pendent newspaper  published 
monthly  and  distributed  free  in 
Noe  Valley  and  vicinity. 

STAFF:  Carla  Anders,  Peter 
Bennett,  Lisa  Bregman,  Roger 
Burd,  Victoria  Colgan,  Gretchen 
Grim,  Judith  Healy,  Charles 
Kennard,  Corey  Michaels,  John 
Pachtner,  Art  E.  S. ,  Sarah 
Smith,  Steve  Steinberg,  Debbie 
Suss  we  in,  Jack  Tipple,  Paul 
Winer. 


EDITORIAL: 
ADVERTISING: 


648-3927 
282-8434 


MADE   IN   NOE  VALLEY 


Carol  Laurent 
962  Sanchez  St. 


2  4  601  8  8  IMI 003266  6 


HOW  DOES  A  PERSON  GET  A  HEARING? 

The  filing  fee  is  $10  (no  fee  for  tenants  who  file  an  affadavit  stating 
they  are  indigent).   A  hearing  must  be  requested  before  an  increase  is 
scheduled  to  go  into  effect.   The  portion  of  the  increase  above  the  guide- 
line amount  may  be  withheld  by  the  tenant  until  a  decision  has  been  made. 

The  hearing  will  be  held  within  45  days  Of  the  request,  before  a 
hearing  officer  appointed  by  the  Board.  Both  the  landlord  and  tenant 
have  a  right  to  be  present,  with  attorneys  if  they  choose,  and  may  offer 
testimony  and  written  materials.  The  hearing  officer  considers  all  the 
evidence  presented,  and  makes  a  decision  as  to  whether  the  proposed 
^ increase  is  justified.  This  decision  is  mailed  to  the  landlord  and  tenant 
-within  10  days  of  the  hearing.  If  the  hearing  officer  decides  that  any  or 
all  of  the  increase  is  justified,  the  tenant  must  pay  the  landlord  the 
amount  that  has  been  determined  fair  plus  7%  interest,  within  five  days 
of  receiving  the  letter  of  decision. 

MAY  THE  DECISION  BE  APPEALED? 

Yes.  Appeals  must  be  filed  within  15  days  of  the  mailing  of  the 
original  decision.  The  same  filing  fee  is  charged  for  the  appeal.  If 
the  Board  decides  to  review  the  case,  the  appeal  hearing  will  be  held 
within  30  days  of  the  request. 

ARE  TENANTS  PROTECTED  FROM  RETALIATORY  EVICTIONS? 

Yes.   Landlords  may  only  evict  tenants  for  the  specific  reasons  set 
forth  in  the  eviction  section  of  the  ordinance,  and  not  in  retaliation  for 
exercising  their  rights  under  the  ordinance.  Under  certain  circum- 
stances a  tenant  who  is  evicted  because  of  repairs  to  the  unit  has  first 
right  to  re-rent  the  unit. 

WHAT  ARE  THE  PENALTIES  FOR  VIOLATION  OF  THE  LAW? 
fi<™  fit l*Zn°*  wrongfully  evicts  a  tenant  or  fails  to  abide  by  the  deci- 
de <  u      Tay     *****  to  cr^inal  prosecution  for  a  mis- 
demeanor, punishable  by  a  fine  of  $500  or  less,  or  imprisonment  for  a 
period  of  six  months  or  less. 

HOW  LONG  WILL  THE  LAW  REMAIN  IN  EFFECT? 
Through  September  12,  1980. 

AflR.^^m0^detail8  00      new  ordinance,  call  the  Mayor's  Citizens' 
^StS^^  °r       °ffiCe  "  district  5  Lpervisor 


OX) 

Painters' Coop 

45  29th  St. 

(NEAR  MISSION) 
SAN  FRANCISCO  94110 
826  1830 


4MEMTONE 
MINT 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 


Was  Psychiatry  Dan  White's  Accomplice? 


3 


By  Paul  Winer 

"American  psychiatry  is 
White's  accomplice  in 
crime.   While  White 
pulled  the  trigger  on  the 
gun  that  killed  Moscone 
and  Milk,  American 
psychiatry  pulled  the  wool 
over  the  eyes  of  lawmakers 
and  journalists  and  the 
public. " 

— Thomas  Szasz 
Decrying  American  psychiatry 
as  the  central  villain  in  the  case, 
psychiatrist  Thomas  Szasz  at- 
tacked the  verdict  of  voluntary 
manslaughter  handed  Dan  White 
for  the  slayings  of  Mayor  George 
Moscone  and  Supervisor  Harvey 
Milk  last  November. 

More  than  1, 700  gays  and 
straights  gathered  to  listen  to 
Szasz  and  others  at  a  forum  held 
last  month  at  Mission  High  School. 
Supervisor  Carol  Ruth  Silver  also 
spoke  at  the  event,  which  was 
sponsored  by  the  Libertarian 
Party. 

Silver  called  the  White  case 
"one  of  the  most  distressing  of  the 
American  judicial  system  in  my 
experience  as  a  lawyer. . .  Dan 
White  had  shot  two  people,  but  he 
was  still  okay. " 

Nevertheless,  she  staunchly  de- 
fended the  jury  system:  'The  jury 
did  not  do  anything  wrong,  and  I 
stand  by  the  jury  system,  "  she 
said,  placing  the  blame  for  the 
decision  on  the  District  Attorney's 
Office. 

Silver  charged  that  many  pre- 
sent at  City  Hall  that  fateful  day 


were  never  summoned  to  testify 
in  the  trial. 

Szasz,  meanwhile,  branded  the 
decision  a  "travesty  of  justice. . . 
The  defense,  aided  and  abetted  by 
the  prosecution,"  he  said,  "had 
the  power  to  hand  the  case  over  to 
the  psychiatrists. " 

As  soon  as  the  White  verdict 
was  announced,  many  started 
screaming  anti-gay  bias.  Szasz 
talked  about  psychiatry's  histori- 
cal anti  -homosexual  bent: 

"In  the  post -War  years,  psy- 
chiatrists led  the  crusade  against 
homosexuals,  whom  they  called, 
among  other  things,  'inverts'  and 
'perverts, '  and  whose  incarcera- 
tion as  'sex  offenders'  they  enthu- 
siastically supported. " 

In  1974,  he  continued,  the 
American  Psychiatric  Association 
(under  pressure  from  gay  libera- 
tionists)  dropped  homosexuality 
from  the  official  roster  of  mental 
diseases. 

"But  it  would  be  a  serious  mis- 
take to  believe  that  these  long- 
standing enemies  of  homosexuals 
have  really  changed  their  minds 
about  one  of  their  most  dearly 
hated  scapegoats. " 

The  White  case  has  brought  into 
sharp  debate  the  issue  of  "dimin- 
ished capacity,  "  used  as  a  defense 
by  White's  attorney.   Szasz  ex- 
plained: "Psychiatrists  borrowed 
from  medicine  the  idea  of  the 
'diminished  capacity'  of  an  organ 
and  applied  it. .  .to  'criminal 
responsibility. '" 

Szasz  blamed  Bernard  Dia- 
mond, a  professor  of  psychiatry 
and  law  at  the  University  of  Cali- 


'DmcIi  of  Cruect 


1'unJ,      _  IW.ii/  l/nu  9iu/.y     II  < 


Star  Bakcri; 


Irish  Soda  Bread,  Pastries 
and  Wedding  Cakes 
Our  Specialties 

Open  7am  -  6pm  Tues.-Sat. 
Sunday  7am  -  1 :30pm 
1701  Church  St.  (Corner  29th  St.) 
648-0785 


fornia,  Berkeley,  for  popularizing 
the  doctrine  of  "diminished  capa- 
city. "  Seeking  to  expose  psy- 
chiatry's ulterior  motives  in  in- 
venting "diminished  capacity, " 
Szasz  quoted  Diamond,  writing  in 
the  Stanford  Law  Review  for  De- 
cember, 1961: 

"'I  concede  that  this  whole  busi- 
ness of  lack  of  mental  capacity  to 
premeditate,  to  have  malice  or  to 
entertain  intent,  is  a  kind  of  so- 
phistry (that  is,  a  kind  of  lie) 
which  must  not  be  allowed  to  re- 
main an  end  in  itself.   Right  now 
we  must  utilize  these  legal  tech- 
nicalities to  permit  psychiatrists 
to  gain  entrance  into  the  trial 
court. . . »" 

Szasz  then  demanded,  "Why 
didn't  the  prosecutor  read  these 
lines  to  the  White  jury?  And  why 
didn't  he  read  Diamond's  further 
psychiatric -imperialistic  declara- 
tions (published  in  the  same  arti- 
cle)?" Diamond  wrote: 

'The  next  step. . .  is  to  expand 
the  principle  of  limited  or  dimin- 
ished responsibility  of  the  mental- 
ly ill  offender  to  include  all  defi- 
nitions of  crime. .  .The  ultimate 
step  will  be  the  extension  of  the 
treatment  principle  to  all  prison- 
ers—sane, insane,  fully  respon- 
sible, and  partially  responsible. . ." 

Many  have  defined  the  City  Hall 
murders  as  political  assassina- 
tion.  The  District  Attorney's  Of- 
fice has  been  heavily  criticized  for 
not  pursuing  this  angle.  Szasz 
blamed  psychiatry  for  covering  up 
the  political  nature  of  the  killings. 
"According  to  the  (psychiatric) 


experts. ..,"  Szasz  said,  "there 
is  no  such  thing  as  a  political 
assassination  in  America.  In 
America,  only  'mental  patients' 
kill  political  figures. "  Szasz 
cited  the  assassinations  of  John 
and  Robert  Kennedy  as  examples. 
In  both  cases,  Szasz  felt,  the 
murderers  were  falsely  dismissed 
as  "mentally  deranged  individuals." 

Szasz  concluded  that,  like  its 
Russian  counterpart,  American 
psychiatry  had  been  used  as  a  poli- 
tical weapon. 

After  initially  blaming  the  jury, 
many  upset  citizens  turned  their 
accusations  to  the  prosecution  for 
its  handling  of  the  case.  Szasz 
blamed  the  prosecution  for  allow- 
ing psychiatry  to  enter  the  court- 
room.  The  D.  A.  should  not  have 
allowed  a  psychiatrist  to  examine 
White  on  the  day  of  the  assassina- 
tions, he  maintained,  because  it 
led  to  a  general  presumption  that 
there  was  something  a  psychiatrist 
could  discover  relevant  to  White's 
"capacity"  to  commit  first-degree 
murder.    "The  prosecution  should 
have  led  the  jury  to  infer  malice 
and  premeditation  from  the  facts 
of  the  case. " 

Toward  the  end  of  his  speech, 
Szasz  proposed  a  final  solution: 
"Let  us  now  make  Voltaire's  fam- 
ous battle  cry  —  'Crush  the  in- 
famous thing'  —  our  own.   The  in- 
famous thing  that  Voltaire  sought 
to  crush  was  the  political  power 
of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  The 
infamous  thing  that  we  ought  to 
crush  is  the  political  power  of  the 
Church  of  Psychiatry. " 


Lesbians  Claim  Police  Brutality 


In  the  wake  of  the  Dan  White 
verdict,  two  lesbian  women  are 
seeking  a  total  of  $400,000  in 
damages  from  the  S.  F.  Police 
Department,  the  Sheriff's  Depart- 
ment and  the  City  of  San  Francis- 
co for  the  police  brutality  they 
claim  they  experienced  on  Jan.  21 
and  22  of  this  year. 

Shirley  Wilson  and  Sue  Davis 
charge  the  police  beat  and  verbally 
harassed  them  while  they  were 
leaving  a  women's  disco  bar  and 
that  they  were  later  beaten,  denied 
a  phone  call  and  knowledge  of  the 
charges  against  them,  at  the  Mis- 
sion Police  Station  and  the  Hall  of 
Justice.   A  st rip- search  was  al- 
legedly done  on  one  of  the  women 
by  both  male  and  female  officers. 

"Although  the  bruises  the  police 
gave  me  have  faded, "  Wilson  said, 
"I'm  still  dealing  with  the  reper- 
cussions from  that  night.  Besides 


being  forced  to  be  a  very  'public* 
lesbian,  I  missed  a  week's  salary, 
which  is  really  rough  when  you're 
a  mother.   I'm  still  paying  my 
medical  and  legal  bills.  " 

"The  intent  of  the  claim  is  not 
only  to  gain  compensation. . .  but  to 
serve  as  a  deterrent  to  further 
violence  against  women,  "  said 
Maureen  Rafferty,  a  member  of 
Wages  Due  Lesbians,  a  group 
working  closely  with  the  claimants. 
"Whether  we're  lesbian  or  not, 
women  have  always  paid  a  very 
high  price  for  saying  "NO"  —  in  the 
streets,  in  the  office,  or  in  our 
homes  —  and  in  this  case,  we  want 
the  police  to  pay!" 

Donations  to  their  legal  battle 
can  be  made  payable  to  the  Sue  and 
Shirley  Legal  Fund  and  mailed  to 
P.  O.  Box  14512,  S.  F.,  94114. 
For  more  information  or  to  volun- 
teer help  with  fundraising,  contact 
Rafferty  at  558-6899. 


Headquarters  for  all  your 
floral  and  gift  needs 


Accent  on  ^Howm 


Two  Locations 

4080  24th  Street  (near  Castro) 
3327  24th  Street  (near  Mission) 
824-3233 


4 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 


Petitioners 


(Continued  from  Page  1) 

"San  Francisco  officials  are 
getting  ready  to  zap  the  public  with 
a  100  percent  raise  (on  Muni),  " 
Caldwell  said.   In  his  view,  such 
an  increase  would  allow  City  gov- 
ernment to  use  property  tax  rene- 
nue,  now  funding  Muni,  for  pur- 
poses contributing  to  the  expansion 
of  government. '  According  to 
Caldwell,  the  "no  fares"  amend- 
ment would  prevent  such  a  develop- 
ment.  He  also  noted  that  the  pro- 
posed fare  hike  would  cut  Muni 
ridership  by  12  to  15  percent. 

Sewer  Tax  Flushed 

Another  petition  that  to  some 
degree  aims  at  curtailing  govern- 
ment is  the  "sewer  service  charge 
repeal"  initiative.   The  proposed 
ordinance  would  do  away  with 
sewer  taxes,  charges  or  fees. 

Backers  of  the  petition  claim 
that  the  existing  supervisor- 
passed  sewer  service  charge  cir- 
cumvents state  guarantees  of  voter 
approval  of  new  taxes. 

The  Board  of  Supervisors  ap- 
proved the  charge  in  1972  to  fi- 
nance an  estimated  $1.5  billion  in 
federally  required  improvements 
to  the  City's  sewage  facilities. 
Technically,  the  sewer  charge  is 
levied  on  the  use  of  the  City's 
sewer  system  by  San  Francisco 
water  users. 

But  the  authors  of  the  repeal 
initiative  say  the  levy  is  in  reality 
a  tax  on  water,  not  a  charge  on  the 
use  of  sewer  facilities. 

Petition  spokesperson  Bob 
Geary  also  said  the  sewer  charge, 
as  it  is  presently  constituted, 


could  be  imposed  "forever"  — 
even  after  current  sewer  projects 
have  been  completed.  Repeal 
supporters  angrily  dispute  the 
need  for  extensive  sewage  im- 
provements and  allege  that  the 
City  has  other  sizable  sewer  pro- 
jects in  the  works.   Geary  said 
the  sewer  charge  could  more  than 
double  between  1983  and  1985. 

Geary  also  objected  to  the  "ir- 
regular" and  "inaccurate"  manner 
in  which  the  fees  have  been  col- 
lected.  He  noted  that  rates  varied 
from  house  to  house  and  that  it  was 
impossible  to  monitor  how  much 
water  actually  went  into  the  sew- 
age system  and  how  much  went 
into  the  ground  or  was  "boiled  off.  " 

The  repeal  petition  already  has 
2,  500  signatures  more  than  the 
10,  500  needed  for  ballot  qualifica- 
tion of  a  proposed  ordinance 
(22,500  signatures  are  required 
for  charter  amendments).  Peti- 
tioners have  until  Aug.  8  to  gather 
signatures. 

60-40  Ratio 

Probably  the  most  controversial 
of  the  petitions  hoping  for  a  place 
on  the  November  ballot  is  the  "fair 
business  tax"  initiative.   The  ini- 
tiative is  sponsored  by  the  Grass 
Roots  Alliance  To  Save  Services 
and  Jobs.   The  Alliance,  estab- 
lished after  the  passage  of  Prop. 
13,  aims  at  restoring  to  business 
a  60  percent  share  of  the  local  tax 
burden. 

Petition  backer  Bob  Barker 
claims  that  local  business  used  to 
pay  that  amount  before  a  1966  law 
changed  the  method  of  property 
assessment.   Since  then,  according 
to  Barker,  business'  share  of  the 

tax  load  has  steadily  declined  until 
it  now  amounts  to  only  about  40 


TRUE  BRITT 


BY  DISTRICT  5  SUPERVISOR   HARRY  BRITT 

A  lot  of  our  tax  dollars  are  spent  on  services  to  the  commuters  who 
work  in  our  downtown  highrises. 

We  maintain  the  streets  they  drive  through  town  on  and  the  BART 
system  they  commute  on.   Our  sewer  taxes  support  the  disposal  system 
their  restrooms  are  hooked  into.   We  pay  for  their  police  and  fire  ser- 
vices.  And  with  41  new  highrises  planned  or  under  construction  in  the 
downtown  area,  the  money  we  have  to  pour  into  those  services  will  in- 
crease dramatically  over  the  next  few  years.   If  the  present  building 
boom  continues  unchecked,  office  space  will  have  increased  by  60  per- 
cent between  1974  and  1990. 

But  there  is  a  broad-based  group  of  citizens  trying  to  provide  some 
sensible  checks  on  the  runaway  growth.   San  Franciscans  for  Reason- 
able Growth  (SFRG)  have  qualified  an  initiative  for  the  November  ballot 
that  will  limit  new  highrises  to  260  feet  (about  20  stories)  in  the  down- 
town area  and  to  10  stories  elsewhere.   Density  restrictions  are  included 
to  limit  congestion. 

Quality  of  life  in  San  Francisco  is  as  much  an  issue  with  the  initia- 
tive as  are  tax  burdens.   More  office  buildings  mean  more  demand  for 
housing  and  higher  rents  squeezing  out  greater  numbers  of  low-  and 
moderate -income  residents,  further  homogenizing  the  city.   The  jobs 
created  by  office  space  are  not  the  kinds  needed  by  our  unemployed. 

People  and  traffic  congestion  reduce  the  livability  of  the  city.  Some 
developers  would  have  the  downtown  spread  further  into  our  neighbor- 
hoods making  San  Francisco  a  place  to  work  but  not  to  live,  except  for 
the  wealthy  few. 

Those  of  us  who  care  about  San  Francisco,  who  want  to  keep  it  a 
good  place  to  live,  will  want  to  work  hard  for  the  passage  of  this  initia- 
tive.  It  allows  for  healthy  growth.   Development  of  the  South  of  Market 
area  is  encouraged.  New  housing  construction  is  stimulated  by  a 
"bonus"  system;  developers  who  build  housing  within  500  feet  of  their 
office  bindings  are  allowed  to  put  up  more  office  space. 

If  you  want  to  help  in  this  movement  to  preserve  and  enhance  our 
city,  please  contact  SFRG,  1117  Geary  St. ,  S.  F. ,  94109,  566-7050. 

ED.  NOTE:  District  5  Supervisor  Harry  Britt  welcomes  the  opportunity 
to  respond  to  your  questions  and  concerns  in  this  column.    Please  send 
letters  to  TRUE  BRITT,  The  Noe  Valley  Voice.  1021  Sanchez  St. , 
San  Francisco,  California,  94114. 


percent  of  the  total.  Barber  said 
private  individuals  currently  paid 
the  remaining  60  percent. 

Backers  of  the  petition  want  to 
correct  the  present  "imbalance" 
by  increasing  business  taxes  on 
property,  gross  receipts  and  pay- 
roll expenses.   Other  business 
taxes  could  be  increased,  too, 
according  to  the  petition,  which, 
however,  would  require  the  60-40 
ratio  without  raising  taxes  or  user 
fees  on  individual  residents. 

The  measure  would  also  penal- 
ize businesses  fleeing  San  Fran- 
cisco by  imposing  a  levy  of  "not 
less  than  20  percent  of  the  payroll 
reduction  as  a  revenue  tax  to  the 
City.   The  money  raised  by  the  tax 
shall  be  spent  to  help  the  City's 
unemployed  and  their  families.  " 

Barber  said  the  ordinance 
would  "provide  a  real  answer  to 
the  cutbacks  in  services  and  jobs 
(stemming  from  Prop.  13)  and  put 
the  tax  burden  where  it  belongs.  " 

Lid  on  Highrises 

The  petition  that  has  perhaps 
attracted  the  most  attention  is  the 
"highrise"  initiative.   That  pro- 
posal limits  the  maximum  height 
and  floor  space  of  buildings  within 
the  downtown  commercial  and 
financial  districts,  the  "C-3"  zon- 
ing areas.   The  petition  cites 
proven  and  potential  costs  of  un- 
bridled commercial  growth:  air, 
water  and  noise  pollution;  traffic 
congestion;  increased  demands  on 
public  services  and  available  hous- 
ing; and  an  "overall  decline  in  the 
quality  of  life  in  San  Francisco 
and  the  entire  San  Francisco  Bay 
Area.  " 


Personal  Vice 

"The  vice  squad  represents  the 
worst  form  of  government  inter- 
ference in  people's  personal 
lives.  "  So  says  Bartholomew  Lee, 
spokesperson  for  the  Libertarian 
Party  of  San  Francisco.  The 
Libertarians  have  drafted  a  peti- 
tion that  would  disband  the  S.  F. 
Police  Department's  vice  squad. 

Lee,  who  is  also  running  for 
district  attorney,  said  that  al- 
though he  was  not  necessarily  in 
favor  of  prostitution  or  gambling, 
he  felt  such  activities  were  mat- 
ters of  personal  choice.   He  add- 
ed that  if  the  community  was  un- 
happy with  the  presence  of  these 
"vices,"  "private  initiative" 
should  be  directed  against  them. 

As  further  reason  for  the 
squad's  abolition,  Lee  cited  cor- 
ruption among  vice  squad  officers, 
high  operational  costs,  and  undue 
harassment  of  the  gay  community. 

The  measure  would  provide  $1 
per  year  in  City  revenue  for  the 


HOMES 
OF  CHARM 

16  years  in  Noe  Valley 
We  love  to  buy,  sell  and  trade. 

Antiques,  Victorian  Hardware 
and  Country  Kitchen. 

OPEN  EVERY  DAY  12:00-6:00 
1544  Church  St. 
6474586 


maintenance  of  a  vice  squad, 
should  state  or  federal  law  man- 
date its  existence. 

Lee  conceded  that  the  initiative 
which  now  has  about  6,000  signa- 
tures, had  only  a  "50-50"  chance 
of  passage  should  it  make  it  to  the 
ballot.   He  hoped,  however,  it 
would  at  least  "call  attention  to 
the  reality  of  the  vice  squad.  " 

Renters  Relief 

The  housing  issue  will  again 
enter  the  political  fray  in  the 
form  of  a  petition  readying  for 
circulation  early  this  month. 

After  a  narrow  defeat  in  last 
November's  Prop.  U  campaign, 
housing  reformers  and  tenant 
advocates  have  regrouped  to  form 
a  broad -based  coalition  known  as 
San  Franciscans  for  Affordable 
Housing  (SFAH).   The  coalition's 
proposed  ordinance  will  offer  a 
multi-pronged  approach  to  the 
City's  housing  problems,  cover- 
ing such  issues  as  rent  relief, 
condominium  conversion,  "just 
cause"  evictions,  speculation, 
and  the  construction  of  additional 
affordable  housing. 

Coalition  spokespersons  do  not 
believe  the  renter  relief  ordinance 
recently  passed  by  the  Board  of 
Supervisors  goes  far  enough  in 
dealing  with  the  City's  pressing 
housing  demands.   SFAH  co-con- 
vener Chester  Hartman  called  the 
supervisors'  ordinance  "piece- 
meal" in  its  approach.  Hartman 
also  said  the  new  law  would  allow 
"substantial  rent  increases  to  con- 
tinue. "  He  further  said  these  con- 
tinued rent  hikes  would  up  the 
chances  of  passage  in  November 
of  the  SFAH  proposal. 


Supe 

'Disenchantment' 

Finally,  San  Franciscans  are 
again  being  asked  to  revert  to  an 
at -large  system  of  choosing  the 
Board  of  Supervisors. 

The  City  switched  to  the  pre- 
sent district  method  with  the  pas- 
sage of  Prop.  T  in  1976.  District 
elections  successfully  met  an 
electoral  challenge  in  1977,  de- 
feating measures  A  and  B  —  both 
of  which  would  have  returned  the 
City  to  the  at -large  system. 

Petition  sponsor  Robert  Gui- 
chard  said  his  proposal  had  been 
drawn  up  to  counter  "general  dis- 
enchantment with  the  Board  of 
Supervisors. . .  "  He  added  that  the 
present  Board  "does  not  repre- 
sent the  vast  majority  of  San 
Franciscans. " 

Backers  of  the  petition  hope  for 
a  spot  on  the  June,  1980,  primary 
ballot. 


NOE  VALLEY'S  ONLY 
GENERAL  OFFICE  SUPPLY  STORE 


OFFICE  SUPPLY 


•  Ftubbar  Sump. 

•  Fling  Suppiaa 

•  Unusual  Cards 

•  Photocopy 

•  Buatnaaa  a  Laoal  Forma 

•  Omca  FumKurs 

•  Ofltoa  MacNna  Rapalr 

1U4  Castro- 2S2-IM* 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 


5 


What  better  way  to  spend  a 
Saturday  afternoon  than  tak- 
ing rubbings  from  sewer 
covers  and  having  a  history 
lesson  at  the  same  time? 
Heidi  Hobbs  holds  up  her 
sample  from  Jersey  Street, 
made  after  attending  a  slide - 
show  on  Victorian  architec- 
ture given  by  Judith  Wald- 
horn  at  the  Noe  Valley 
Library. 


24«h  Si  San  Francisco  CA  94m 
8MH0B 

Common 
Seems  1 


DR.  PAUL  HENRIE  D.C. 

Spine,  Joint,  and 
Neuromuscular  Disorders 

Chiro-Physiotherapy 
Nutrition  and  Electronic  Agu-Therapy 

X-Ray  Counseling 
Workmans  Compensation 
and  other  Insurance  Cases 

1 501  GUERRERO  at  27th  ST. 
CALL  282-9119 

for  Appointment 


Friends  Win 
SPUR  Award 


The  Friends  of  Noe  Valley  has 
been  judged  by  SPUR  as  the  most 
civic-minded  organization  this  year 
in  San  Francisco. 

The  prestigious  award  was  given 
June  18  during  the  annual  convention 
of  SPUR,  the  San  Francisco  Plan- 
ning and  Urban  Research  Associa- 
tion. 

Caspar  Weinberger ,  former  Secre- 
tary of  Health,  Education  and  Wel- 
fare and  now  an  officer  of  Bechtel 
Corporation,  presented  a  framed 
certificate  and  a  $500  check,  which 
were  accepted  by  Friends'  Presi- 
dent Alix  Dilworth. 

Friends  won  the  honor  for  "im- 
provements they  have  made  in  their 
area,"  said  SPUR  Associate  Direc- 
tor Michael  McGill. 

Specifically,  McGill  said,  the 
judges  were  "impressed"  with 
Friends'  ability  to  work  alone  and 
with  other  organizations  on  projects 
that  included  the  annual  street  fair; 
the  community  garden  at  the  Noe 
Valley  branch  library;  and  a  recent 
Victorian  restoration  seminar  held 
at  the  Noe  Valley  Ministry. 

Known  as  "The  Better  Neighbor- 
hood Award,"  it  has  been  won  pre- 
viously by  the  Eureka  Valley  Pro- 
tection Association  and  the  Glen 
Park  Neighborhood  Association. 

The  five-member  panel  of 
judges  this  year  included  repre- 
sentatives from  SPUR,  the  City's 
Planning  Department,  the  Glen 
Park  association,  and  the  Columbia 
Foundation,  which  made  the  cash 
prize  available. 

The  money  must  be  used  for  the 
"physical  improvement"  of  Noe 
Valley,  McGill  said. 


3. 


USED  BOOKSTORE 

We  buy  private  libraries. 
We  do  search -service  for 
out  of  print  books,  and 
order  new  books. 

ANTIQUUS  BIBLIOPOLE 

4147  24th  STREET 
2852322 


PROFESSIONAL 

STliPPINQ 


IS  NOW  AVAILABLE  IN  SAN  FRANCISCO 
Using  a  new  safe  and  effective 
cold  solvent  process 

WE 

STRIP.. 

All 

WOODS  *  METALS 

•  Pickup  & 
Delivery  Available 

•  Reflnlthing 
Counseling 

•  Fast  Servlcm 

•  Call  for  Free 
B  st  I  maim 


335  Eighth  St. 

(Between  Folsom  &  Harrison) 


431-3464 


/qf))   oe  Valley  dance  ethnolo- 
U        £*st  Rucina  Ballinger  will 
present  a  slide-lecture 
performance  on  "Hawaiian 
Hula:  Ancient  and  Modern"  July  7, 
7:30  p.m.  at  the  Noe  Valley  Minis- 
try, 1021  Sanchez  St. 

The  religious  and  social  aspects 
of  ancient  hula  will  be  discussed  as 
well  as  the  historical  development 
of  hula  over  the  centuries. 

Slides  of  Hawaii  and  hula  taken 
by  Noe  Valley  Voice  photographer 
Charlie  Kennard  will  be  shown, 
and  Ballinger  will  present  a  pro- 
gram of  ancient  hula  dances. 


m    ureka  Theatre  Company 
((J/     (ETC)  will  present  the 

Bay  Area' 8  first  Experi- 
mental Theatre  Festival. 
The  eight-week  festival  will  begin 
July  12  with  "Duykers  the  First," 
a  performance  piece  created  by 
George  Coates  and  featuring  opera 
singer  John  Duykers. 

Winston  Tong,  ETC  artist- in- 
residence  and  creator  of  such  sell- 
outs as  "Art  Songs  of  the  20th 
Century"  and  "Bound  Feet," 
joined  by  filmmaker  Bruce  Gedul- 


dig,  will  premiere  a  new  work 
July  26  to  Aug.  5. 

In  addition  to  these  8  p.  m. 
shows,  the  Summer  Festival  will 
present  a  series  of  midnight  pro- 
grams, including  a  "Moon  Opera" 
devised  by  ETC  Director  Julie 
Hebert. 

For  ticket  information  and  re- 
servations, call  ETC  at  863-7133. 
The  theatre  is  located  at  16th  and 
Market  Streets. 

ast  month  the  Noe  Valley 
Community  A  rchives  was 
born.    "A  rchives"  are  a 
repository  of  all  of  the 
things  that  tell  about  the  history  of 
the  neighborhood,  whether  last 
week  or  a  century  ago. 

The  Noe  Valley  Community  A  r- 
chives,  to  be  located  at  the  branch 
library,  451  Jersey  St. ,  will  be  a 
resource  for  people  in  the  neigh- 
borhood who  want  to  learn  about 
its  history.   It  will  also  be  a  place 
for  you  to  give  or  lend  your  Noe 
Valley  memorabilia  so  that  others 
can  enjoy  and  learn  from  it. 

The  newly  formed  Archives 
Committee  is  also  starting  an  oral 
history  project,  to  "capture"  on 
tape  and  in  photographs  the  people 
who  know  Noe  Valley  and  who  can 
tell  about  their  lives  here.   If  you 
have  stories  of  your  own,  or  know 
someone  with  memories  of  the 
Valley,  call  285-2788  or  stop  by 
the  library. 

new  addition  to  the  Castro 
Street  Fair,  a  fine  arts 
pa  villi  on,  will  provide 
local  artists  an  area  to 
display  and  sell  their  work. 

Those  painters,  sculptors,  per- 
formance artists,  body  artists  and 
photographers  who  are  interested 
in  participating,  should  write 
Frank  Pietronigro,  122  Guerrero 
St.,  #2,  S.  F.,  94103,  or  call 
552-7996. 

The  fair  will  take  place  Aug.  19. 


market 


5  GREAT  STORES  TO 

SERVE  YOU  BETTER 

Sin  Fiinciito 
I3M  Silwr  In 
OKI  MCNTS 
OKI  SUWIT 

San  fraacisco 
JSSJ  ?4IN  SI 
OKI  NCNTS 
OKI  SUIUT 

Cafltwnt  Clr 
OKI  IISMTS 

okr  swotT 

San  Darloi 
1414  [1  CaaiM 
OKI  IICHTS 
OKI  SUMll 

Pacific) 
SM  Lmda  Mai  »M 
OKI  IKMIS 
ClOSf 0  SMUT 

BELL  MARKET  IS  YOUR 
COMPLETE  NEIGHBORHOOD 
SUPERMARKET 

OPEN  7  DAYS  A  WEEK  -  OPEN  NIGHTS 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 


Many  of  San  Francisco's  Victorian  churches  are  gone.  Others  lan- 
guish without  congregations  or  suffer  from  vandalism  and  neglect. 
Noe  Valley,  however,  is  fortunate  to  have  a  handsome  reminder  of  the 
19th  century  in  its  midst:  the  church  at  1021  Sanchez  St. 

The  Noe  Valley  Ministry  is  a  "Victorian, "  as  we  now  call  those 
buildings  designed  during  the  reign  of  England's  Queen  Victoria,  1837- 
1901.   It  is  a  redwood  replica  of  a  "Gothic"  English  country  church, 
with  a  steep  gabled  roof  adorned  with  three  kinds  of  shingles.  Their 
spearpoint,  segmented  and  diamond  shapes  alternate  on  the  front  of  the 
church,  inviting  light  to  dance  across,  casting  delicate  shadows.  The 
square  tower  on  the  north  side  of  the  front  sports  a  six-sided  witch's 
cap  topped  by  a  cross. 

The  Gothic  theme  is  evident  in  the  pointed  windows  in  the  top  story 
and  in  the  arched  moldings  that  frame  the  main  entrance.   The  large 
window  over  the  entry  appears  simple  at  first,  but  after  a  closer  look 
you  can  see  the  shallow,  incised  design  on  its  flat-sawn  trim  and  a 
machine -carved  detail  on  top  that  looks  like  a  flower. 

The  congregation,  one  of  the  oldest  in  the  neighborhood,  was  first 
organized  in  1881  as  the  Noe  Valley  Presbyterian  Church,  but  changed 
to  "Lebanon"  three  years  later.   The  lot  at  1021  Sanchez  St.  was  pur- 
chased for  $800  in  1884,  and  the  church  was  dedicated  in  1888.  The 
building  has  had  both  major  and  minor  modifications  since  then.  The 
most  extreme  was  soon  after  the  1906  earthquake,  when  it  was  enlarged. 
The  original  structure  was  jacked  up  and  a  new  ground  floor  story  added. 

The  architectural  origins  of  the  building  were  described  quite  thor- 
oughly in  the  April,  1888,  issue  of  the  California  A rchitect  and  Building 
News  (CABN),  a  San  Francisco  monthly  magazine  which  carried  listings 
oTconstruction  activities  in  the  City:  "Sanchez  between  23rd  and  24th. 
A  frame  church.   Owner.  Lebanon  Presbyterian  Church;  architect: 
Charles  Geddes;  contractor.  Fred  W.  Kern;  cost:  $3,880." 

The  terms  of  the  contract  were  specified:  "1st  payment,  when 
frame  is  up,  except  spire  and  roof  boards,  $750.   2nd  payment,  when 
building  is  ready  for  plastering,  $1,000.   3rd  payment,  when  entire  work 
is  completed,  except  painting  and  door  and  window  trimmings,  $900. 
4th  payment,  when  buUding  is  completed  and  accepted,  $260.   5th  pay- 
ment, 35  days  after  acceptance,  $970.  " 

Geddes,  the  architect,  was  born  July  20,  1820,  in  Halifax,  Nova 
Scotia.   He  is  first  listed  in  the  San  Francisco  City  Directory  of  1856-57 
as  working  in  a  carpenter  shop  on  Dunbar  Alley.   By  1861  he  was  a 
"builder"  with  a  shop  at  130  Stevenson  St.   By  1863  he  called  himself  an 
"architect,  "  with  offices  in  Room  14  of  the  Mercantile  Library  BuUding. 

Geddes  was  prominent  in  San  Francisco  until  his  death  in  1903,  and 
the  CABN  listed  many  of  his  homes  and  churches.   Several  can  still  be 
seen  in  the  Noe  Valley -Mission  area.   At  986  Guerrero  St.  is  the  stately 
Stick-style  home  he  buUt  for  himself  in  1883.   Also  intact  is  35  Hill  St. , 
which  he  designed  in  1883  for  actor  Walter  Leman.   The  Geddes  house 
at  116  Fair  Oaks  St.  has  been  severely  "modernized"  and  is  scarcely 
recognizable  as  a  Victorian.   But  look  up  at  the  second  floor;  there  you 


will  see  a  redwood  "decorative"  much  like  the  one  on  the  Noe  Valley 
Ministry  facade. 

The  current  pastor  at  the  Ministry,  the  Rev.  Carl  Smith,  lives 
nearby  with  his  wife  Suzanne  and  their  two  children.    Rev.  Smith  has 
been  in  Noe  Valley  since  June,  1977.   Under  his  guidance  much  has 
been  done  to  revitalize  the  church  -  both  the  building  and  its  programs. 

In  the  past  two  years,  the  front  windows  have  been  rebuilt  and  new 
paint  applied,  according  to  a  color  scheme  donated  by  Butch  Kardum. 
Its  subtle  tones  of  pearl  gray  and  white  are  dignified,  yet  bring  out  much 
of  the  Gothic  detail,  to  help  our  eyes  understand  and  enjoy  the  building. 
The  front  entry  is  being  restored,  and  trees  will  soon  be  planted  in  front. 

A  handful  of  new  programs  encourage  many  people  to  use  the  buUd- 
ing for  social  and  civic  purposes,  as  well  as  for  worship.   The  Arts  and 
Lectures  Forum  arranges  exhibits  and  performances  by  local  talent; 
special  food  programs  serve  seniors;  holistic  health  programs  offer 
dance  and  exercise  classes.   In  addition,  there  are  many  chu  rch  -  related 
uses,  as  the  congregation  expands. 

The  buUding  is  also  much  in  demand  as  a  community  center.  The 
Noe  VaUey  Voice  is  housed  there;  merchants  meet  monthly,  and  the  Noe 
Valley  Co-op  Nursery  School  is  offered  on  the  ground  floor.   It  is  possi- 
ble to  rent  the  space  for  a  nominal  fee,  for  utilities  and  maintenance. 
For  scheduling  information,  please  call  285-2317. 

*  *  * 

In  this  monthly  column,  I  hope  to  share  my  delight  in  discovering 
the  architecture  of  Noe  Valley,  whether  the  most  humble  Victorian  cot- 
tage or  the  terra  cotta  splendor  of  our  "Carnegie"  library.   I  will  also 
be  sharing  my  research  about  the  history  of  the  neighborhood,  especially 
the  work  of  the  hundreds  of  contractors  and  builders  responsible  for  its 
development.   If  you  have  suggestions,  questions  or  additional  informa- 
tion, please  write  to  me  at  The  Noe  Valley  Voice. 

*  *  * 

ED.  NOTE:  Judith  Lynch  Waldhorn  is  a  co-author  of  two  books  on  San 
Francisco  architecture,  A  Gift  to  the  Street  and  Victoria's  Legacy,  and 
a  staff  member  of  the  San  Francisco  History  Room  of  the  Main  Library. 
She  will  present  a  slideshow  on  Victorians  at  the  Noe  VaUey  Library, 
451  Jersey  St. ,  on  July  25  at  7:30  p.m. 


REVIEW 


I  MUST  NOT  ROCK 
By  Linda  Marie 

Daughters  Inc.  ,  1977,  207  pages,  $5 


Reviewed  by  Lynn  Rogers 


The  Noe  Valley  Ministry,  1021  Sanchez  St. 


Linda  Marie  grew  up  in  the  Bay  Area,  but  she  only  went  to  the  ocean 
once.    Linda  Marie  was  beaten  and  tied  to  her  bedpost  for  days  by  her 
mother  when  she  was  only  two,  yet  she  was  left  in  her  custody.  Linda 
Marie  went  to  a  Catholic  girls'  school,  but  she  was  forced  to  sit  in  a 
corner  writing  "I  must  not  rock"  so  much  of  the  time  that  she  hardly 
learned  to  write  anything  else  until  many  years  later.   Linda  Marie  was^ 
sexually  abused  repeatedly  by  her  stepfather  when  she  was  thirteen.  He 
went  to  jail  for  one  year,  Linda  was  institutionalized  for  the  next  nine. 
As  she  puts  it,  "You  get  sent  to  prison  because  you're  responsible.  You 
get  sent  to  an  institution  when  you're  a  victim.   There  seems  to  be  more 
dignity  in  going  to  prison.    For  children,  there's  more  self-respect  got 
from  begging  on  the  streets  than  going  into  a  courtroom. " 

When  Linda  was  eighteen,  she  was  declared  grown  up  and  thrown  out 
into  the  world  to  care  for  herself.    She  had  not  been  taught  a  trade,  she 
had  not  been  encouraged  to  make  decisions  on  her  own.   She  got  a  room 
in  a  Catholic  residence  club,  got  a  job  filing  for  an  insurance  company, 
and  did  a  Uttle  hooking  on  the  side.   Though  her  experience  with  her  step- 
father and  a  few  other  men  like  him  had  taught  her  to  fear  and  distrust 
men  in  general,  she  soon  found  it  was  better  to  marry  and  be  cared  for 
by  one  man  than  to  face  the  uncertainty  and  hazards  of  dealing  with  many. 
At  least  her  husband,  Raman,  was  gentle  and  good  to  their  two  children, 
and  though  she  never  loved  him ,  for  a  few  years  Linda  was  able  to  live 
with  him  and  learn  to  care  for  herself. 

Obviously,  I  Must  Not  Rock  is  not  a  pretty  story,  it  is,  however,  a 
very  intense  one.   It's  a  story  that  makes  you  angry  at  the  way  things 
are,  the  way  this  society  works  on  kids.    It's  a  story  that  makes  you 
realize  that  if  you're  not  lucky  enough  to  be  born  to  reasonably  intelligent, 
financially  and  socially  secure  parents,  you  may  be  better  off  not  born 
at  aU.   It's  a  story  that  makes  you  feel  guilty  for  the  comfortable  smug- 
ness of  your  own  life,  makes  you  feel  silly  that  you  think  you've  got 
problems,  makes  you  feel  better  about  the  loving  care  with  which  you 
treat  your  own  children,  makes  you  realize  how  bad  it  is  that  most  of  us 
care  only  for  our  own  children. 

I  Must  Not  Rock  is  not,  however,  a  self- pitying,  unrelentingly  ugly 
story.   The  Linda  Marie  who  survived  to  write  about  her  past  retained  a 
sense  of  humor  amidst  the  horror.    You  have  to  laugh  with  her  when  she 
describes  "the  near-sighted  nun  who  always  focused  the  weekly  film 
near-sighted"  or  the  frightened  nun  who,  after  an  earthquake  had  shaken 
the  Convent  of  the  Holy  Terror,  threw  up  her  hands  and  yelled,  "Maybe 
now  you'U  believe  there's  a  god. " 


8 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 


Ruby 


(Continued  from  Page 


glazing  —  applying  the  silicate 
coating  that  seals  and  brightens 
the  finished  product. 

Students  have  the  highest  re- 
gard for  Ruby  and  don't  seem  to 
mind  her  occasional  practice  of 
corporal  punishment  in  the  class- 
room. 

One  student  recalled  sitting  at 
the  potter's  wheel  and  making  a 
few  careless  mistakes.   After  one 
mistake,  the  student  said,  Ruby 
gave  her  a  smart  rap  on  the 
knuckles  with  a  ruler. 

Often  Ruby  will  purchase  piec- 
es from  her  students.    That's  how 
she  acquired  the  Tibet  monk  — 
from  a  student  who  felt  it  was  too 
ugly  to  keep.   There's  also  the 
other  side  of  the  coin.   One  of  her 
new  students  attempted  to  give 
Ruby  a  dark  glazed  bowl.  With 
an  "ugh"  Ruby  told  the  student  to 
keep  it  and  give  her  something 
later  when  her  talents  had  appre- 
ciated. 

Late  last  year,  Ruby  visited 
Japan  on  a  pottery  tour.   She  was 
so  inspired  by  the  Oriental  tech- 
niques that  she  vowed  to  resume 
her  once  vigorous  pace  of  pot- 
making.    From  January  through 
March  of  this  year,  Ruby  made  a 
pot  a  day  —  each  one  different 
from  the  last,  including  many  in 
the  more-detailed  Japanese  style. 

Then  she  contracted  pneumonia 
and  although  she's  now  recuper- 
ated ,  she  hasn't  returned  to  the 
one- a- day  routine.   "I've  got  lots 
of  catching  up  to  do,"  she  said, 
somewhat  apologetically. 

Ruby  said  she  long  ago  lost 
count  of  how  many  pieces  had 
been  molded  by  her  wet,  clay- 
covered  fingers.   But  the  memen- 
tos, simply  signed  "Ruby"  on  the 
bottom ,  grace  thousands  of 
homes  in  the  United  States  and  in 
more  than  a  few  foreign  coun- 
tries. 

O' Burke  didn't  discover  her 
artistic  talents  until  late  in  life 
and ,  unfortunately ,  through  a 
personal  tragedy. 

She  was  raised  on  a  cattle  and 
horse  ranch  in  west  Texas.  When 
she  was  23  years  old,  she  came  to 
San  Francisco  for  a  short  vacation. 

She  never  left.   She  married , 
had  a  child,  and  got  divorced. 
Pottery  was  a  hobby  of  her  daugh- 
ter, who  had  learned  the  craft 
as  a  Camp  Fire  Girl.    "I  encour- 
aged her,"  said  Ruby,  who  at  the 
time  worked  for  J.  J.  Moore,  a 
lumber  exporting  firm  and  her 
employer  for  35  years. 

Then,  when  her  daughter  was 
not  quite  14  years  old,  she  died 
from  a  respiratory  disease.  The 
death  of  her  only  child  left  O' Burke 
torn  in  a  thousand  places. 

She  picked  up  her  daughter's 
hobby.   "I  started  doing  some- 
thing so  I  could  sleep  at  night.  It 
was  good  therapy. 11  One  of  her 
first  pieces  was  a  sculpture  of  her 
daughter  as  a  memorial. 


Her  new  hobby  soon  developed 
into  a  discipline.   At  night  she 
began  studying  at  the  California 
School  of  Fine  Arts  and  later 
attended  Mills  College  and  the 
College  of  Arts  and  Crafts  in  Oak- 
land.  In  1942  she  and  some  asso- 
ciates founded  the  prestigious 
Pottery  Association,  of  which  she 
remains  a  member. 

It  wasn't  long  before  she  was 
teaching  a  pottery  course  at  night 
at  a  Berkeley  high  school,  and 
then  as  a  substitute  teacher  in 
San  Francisco  schools. 

Ruby  keeps  many  of  her  favor- 
ite works  in  her  unusual  back- 
deck  bedroom,  built  almost  en- 
tirely of  glass  and  designed  by 
Noe  Valley  architect  Albert  1 
Lanier. 

One  is  a  totem  pole ,  twice  as 
tall  as  its  creator,  that  on  first 
glance  looks  bizarre,  but  ac- 
quires new  meaning  when  its  story 
is  understood.   It  is  a  self-por- 
trait —  constructed  five  years  ago  — 
of  the  first  77  years  of  Ruby's  life. 

The  totem  pole  is  a  series  of 
busts,  each  one  sitting  on  top  of 
the  other. 

The  base  is  a  clay  rendering  of 
a  baby's  face  —  Ruby's  own  —  and 
the  second  face  is  "me  as  a  young 
girl  about  six  or  seven  years  old. " 
It  is  followed  by  the  likeness  of 
"Baldie"  her  pet  calf,  another  face 
of  a  pig-tailed  13-year-old,  and 
then  her  pet  horse. 

The  face  of  a  serene  adult 
woman  is  next,  holding  an  infant  — 
the  daughter  that  later  died.  The 
totem  pole  is  crowned  with  the 
wrinkled  face  of  an  older  woman 
holding  several  pets. 

"They're  all  I've  got  now,"  she 
said ,  referring  to  her  cat  and  the 
two  dachshunds  bounding  through 
the  house. 

While  the  totem  pole  is  a  highly 
personal  and  serious  work,  other 
pieces  reflect  her  wry  sense  of 
humor.   One  of  her  early  sculp- 
tures is  of  a  sitting  male  figure 
who  is  leaning  forward  to  stretch 
his  arms.   It  is  entitled  "Modern 
Man"  and  is  a  full  form  except  for 
the  total  absence  of  a  stomach. 
"He's  gutless,"  she  laughed. 

O' Burke  has  created  thousands 
and  thousands  of  pieces ,  but  most 
have  been  given  away  or  sold.  "It 
feels  like  I'm  selling  a  piece  of 
my  body,"  she  said.    But  she  sells 
because  people  desire  her  crea- 
tions and  because  she  doesn't  have 
enough  room  to  keep  them. 

The  reason  she  has  shied  away 
from  retiring  is  because  her  work 
keeps  her  young.   "You  hear  so 
much  about  older  women  sitting  in 
hotel  lobbies  in  their  rocking 
chairs.   I  just  feel  so  sorry  for 
them. " 

Women  live  a  lot  longer  than 
men,  she  pointed  out,  and  they 
must  plan  for  full  active  lives  af- 
ter they  retire  —  something  it 
seems  Ruby  will  never  do. 


JncDOnn€LL  &  W€flV€B 


ATTORNEYS  AT  LAW 
4091  24™  STREET 
SAN  FRANCISCO,  CALIFORNIA  04114 

(■015)  641-0700 


BAY  AREA  LANGUAGE  CENTER 

Travelling  this  summer? 
Beginning/Advanced  conversation 
classes  with  native  teachers. 
Day  or  evening 
Convenient  to  BART  stop 
2069  A  MISSION  STREET 
552-9899, 1-5  pm 


rbe  quesuNQ 

peKSON 

Ever  in  search  of  meaning,  The  Questing  Person  goes  out  among 
us  in  search  of  its  quest  for  meaning.   This  month  The  Questing 
Person  probes  the  peculiar  power  of  prepubescents  with  the  question: 

HOW  DO  YOU  KEEP  YOUR  PARENTS  IN  LINE? 


Felicia  "Poo"  Johnson, 
4A-.  I  push  her  around. 


Steven  "Midget- Brain" 
Sargent,  8:  Begging 
works  for  me. 


Elaine  Dupre,  8,  swing- y 
er:  I'll  say,  hey,  Morn,* 


can  you  buy  me  this  be- 
cause I've  never  had  it 
before  and  I  want  to  see  . , 
what  happens. . .  Crying  il* 
works  for  my  Dad. 


J  Ethan  Irving  "E.  E.  " 
Banford,  8:  I  tickle 
'em.  (They're  both 
ticklish. ) 


IB 


m 


Tony  McGowan,  7,  No. 
v     42:  Almost  every  day  I 
kgive  'em  breakfast  in 
bed. 


Deaudry  "Eugene"  Car, 
8:  I  whup  'em. 


Anthony  "Peach- face" 
Soto,  10:  I  tell  them  to 
sit  down  and  shut  up. 


Karen  "Goofy"  Santos, 

M:  I  give  a  really,  ■ 
really  sorry  look  and 
then  go  to  my  room ,  | 
shut  the  door,  then  cry. 
She  feels  sorry  for  me. J 
Or  you  make  a  lot  of 
racket  so  she'll  want  to1 
get  rid  of  you. 


Armando  Casco,  13, 
newscarrier:  Some- 
times lies.    But  half 
the  time  I  tell  them  the 
truth. 


Jennine  Santos,  10 


Wonder  Woman:  To 
keep  them  nice  and  get 
what  you  want,  you  have 
to  be  real  good  and  get 
an  excellent  report  card. 
On  their  birthdays  you 
give  them  presents. 


James  Smith,  8,  base- 
ball player:   Talk  them 
into  it.   I  say  "please" 
all  the  time.   Or  if  that 
doesn't  work,  I  cry. 


Richard  "Rickey"  Par-  I* 
ker,  9,  soccer  player:  jj 
Sometimes  I  go  over 
there  and  I  hug  her  and  j 
she  says,  "Okay,  what 
do  you  want?" 


I1III1HIIHIHIIIIIIII 


"Pianos  Tuned  6r  Repaired 

Laura  Tarbtr 
Sanfranasco,  Calif,  g+i 


LINDY  BROWN  -  TYPING 


276A  Fair  Oaks  St. 
San  Francisco  648-7352 


ART  $  PWOTO 

Z£ROX  copy 

/ERVICE 

3957  Twenty -fourth  Street 
San  Francisco,  California  941-14 
(415)285-1387 
Mr  S  *r  >o-*//ww  li  s 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 


9 


Tops  at  Mission  High 


By  Paul  Winer 

Once  again,  it  was  the  sea- 
son for  high  schools  to  honor 
their  best  and  brightest. 

"Three  years  ago,  "  the 
speaker  began,  'T  came  to 
the  United  States  from  Hong 
Kong  as  a  Chinese  immi- 
grant, and  today,  I  consider 
myself  a  Chinese-American. " 

The  speaker  was  Teresa  Wu, 
and  the  occasion  was  the  graduation 
exercise  last  month  of  Mission 
High  School's  senior  class. 

Most  of  Wu's  "education"  in  the 
United  States  has  been  spent  at 
Mission.   There,  she  was  presi- 
dent of  the  Chinese  Club,  scholas- 
tic manager  of  the  Student  Senate, 
vice  president  of  the  Bear  Society, 
and  a  member  of  the  Honor  Society. 
To  cap  her  high  school  career,  Wu 
was  one  of  two  students  given  the 
Ruth  Asawa  Achievement  Award 
for  school  service. 

"The  best  thing  about  high 
school,"  Wu  recalls,  "was  that  I 


improved  my  English. " 

And  what  was  best  about  Mis- 
sion in  particular  ?  "The  teachers 
and  students  got  along  with  each 
other  pretty  good,"  she  said. 
"In  our  school  we  didn't  have  that 
many  fights  between  students." 

Lack  of  violence  was  not  Mis- 
sion's only  virtue.   Wu's  vale- 
dictory address  praised  the 
school  for  providing  "a  rich  pro- 
gram in  which  I  learned  both 
Chinese  and  English.   I  felt  very 
much  at  home  at  Mission  High. 

"I  am  grateful  to  my  school 
that  I  have  been  given  a  chance  to 
maintain  my  own  Chinese  cultural 
heritage  and  at  the  same  time 
learn  English  and  everything 
about  America. 

"I  am,  and  will  always  be  proud 
to  have  been  a  student  at  Mission 
High  as  I  will  always  be  proud  to 
be  a  true  Chinese-American.  " 

Teresa  Wu  will  be  a  pre-med 
student  at  the  University  of  Cali- 
fornia at  Davis.   She  hopes  to 
become  a  doctor. 


4193  24TH  STREET 
SAN  FRANCISCO  94114 
282-7144 


EXPANDING  and  MOVING  To 
2233  Market  Street 


NOE  VALLEY  PSYCHOTHERAPY  ASSOCIATES 


Wish  to  thank  everyone 
who  has  supported  us 
in  our  effort  to  keep 
providing  services 
in  Noe  Valley. 

Thank  You 
Muchas  Gracias 


Vivian  Gold 
Marny  Hall 
Alexandra  Hunter 
Carol  Tuttle 
Jorge  Werbin 


Noe  Valley  Psychotherapy  Associates 

4112  24th  Street 
San  Francisco  941 14 


C  1  a  s  s  i  s  m 


San  Francisco  Women's 
Health  Center,  3789 
24th  St.  ,  is  sponsoring 
a  Post-Abortion  Support 
starting  July  26.   It  will  meet  on 
Thursdays  at  7:30  p.m.  for  six 
weeks.   The  first  session  is  $5, 
the  series  $24.   Call  282-6999  for 
more  information. 

Cake  decorating  classes 
are  available  at  The 
Fluted  Edge,  1469  Church 
St.    Four  2-hour  ses- 
sions cost  $15  plus  supplies.  Call 
282-0577  to  sign  up. 

Terry  Clarke  is  continuing 
her  beginning  modern 
dance  at  the  Noe  Valley 
Ministry,  1021  Sanchez 
St. ,  on  Tuesdays,  9:30  to  10:30 
a.m.   It's  $3  a  class.   Call  her 
at  648-4194  to  sign  up. 


I 


am  est  own  Community 
Center  at  180  Fair  Oaks 
St.  offers  summer  clas- 
ses in  arts  and  crafts  and 


STAR 


MAGIC 


Gifts  of  the  Spirit 

3995  -  24TH  ST.  641-8026 
SAN  FRANCISCO.  CALIF.  94114 

Come  explore  our  gallery 


ecology  environment,  as  well  as 
tutorial  services,  an  animal 
room,  seniors  services,  a  free 
lunch  program  and  an  employment 
program  for  youth.   Call  647-6274. 

Kids  can  learn  how  to  mime 
and  clown  (even  more 
than  they  normally  do) 
this  summer  at  the  Olivet 
Church,  400  Missouri  St.  at  19th. 
Classes  will  be  taught  on  Thurs- 
days, July  5  through  Aug.  9,  for 
50£/class.    First  through  third 
graders  should  come  at  10  a.  m. , 
fourth  through  sixth  graders  at 
11:30  a.m.   Call  826-8080. 

Classes  in  ancient  Hawaii- 
an hula  and  Balinese 
dance  are  now  forming. 
Call  Rucina  Ballinger  at 
648-7032  and  ask  about  her  after- 
noon and  evening  classes. 

Susan  Rubin  welcomes  new 
students  to  her  summer 
jazz  dance  class  taught 
at  the  Bush  St.  Studio, 
1438  Bush  St.  ,  on  Tuesdays  and 
Fridays  from  9:30  to  11  a.m. 
Call  776-8605. 


CLASSISM  presents  a  sampling  of 
neighborhood  classes ,  workshops 
and  services.    Please  send  your 
notices  to  Classism,  The  Noe 
Valley  Voice,  1021  Sanchez  St. , 
94114. 


DiAmono  SUTRA 

737  DiAmono 


WEEKEND  BRW 
I  lam  - 


Meat  and  Vegetarian 
International  Specialties 
Dinners  Nightly  5:30-  10:30 


5fyear  Deligfyt 

4155  A  24TH  ST.  -  BETWEEN  CASTRO  &  DIAMOND 
2854243  -  TUESDAY  THROUGH  SATURDAY 

SHEAR  DELIGHT  is  proud  to  welcome 
Craig  Morton  to  its  staff  -  recently  returned 
from  a  haircutting  seminar  in  London. 

Come  in  for  consultation  on 
precision  haircuts,  permanent  waves 
or  haircoloring  with  this  Special  Offer: 

$12.50  WOMEN'S  HAIRCUT  &  BLOWDRY 
$10.00  MEN'S  HAIRCUT  &  BLOWDRY 
$30.00  PERM  &  HAIRCUT 

KMS 

Professional 
Hair  &  Skin  Care 
Center 


10 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 


niDEWLLE^HDHI 


Trouble  With  Titan 


1979  by  Yves  Barbero 


(Last  month,  Tom  found  himself  married  to  Suzie  Sunshine,  the  head  of 
the  Natural  Foods  Cooperative  (NFC).   The  purpose  of  the  marriage  was 
really  a  corporate  merger  of  NFC  and  Tom's  own  World  Computer  Com- 
bine (WCC).   Suzie  thought  she  could  manipulate  Tom  easily.   Tom  wasn't 
particularly  interested  in  manipulating  anyone— unless  it  was  humanity  as 
a  whole.    He  planned  to  develop  space  travel  so  man  could  look  outward. 
Mankind ,  Tom  reasoned ,  knew  enough  about  himself  and  was  growing 
bored. )  , 

The  honeymoon  hadn't  been  much  to  talk  about.   It  only  reminded  Tom 
that  sex  was  more  trouble  than  it  was  worth.    He  had  to  relearn  that  les- 
son every  few  months  or  so  because  after  a  period  of  abstinence,  the  urge 
tended  to  cloud  his  previous  conclusions. 

Suzie,  for  her  part,  seemed  to  enjoy  the  whole  experience.    But  Tom 
wasn't  sure  that  was  significant.   She  enjoyed  eating  those  horrible  soy- 
bean breakfasts,  too.   After  a  week,  she  decided  that  she  was  pregnant, 
as  a  proper  wife  should  be,  and  went  back  to  North  Dakota  to  run  NFC. 

"I'll  see  you  in  six  weeks,"  she  said  with  innocent  charm  on  boarding 
her  twin-engined  Bison  helicopter. 

Tom  decided  there  were  some  advantages  to  this  sort  of  merger- 
marriage.   She'd  stay  away  for  weeks  at  a  time  to  run  her  business. 

The  van  drove  him  from  the  landing  pad  on  top  of  Twin  Peaks  to  his 
new  residence  at  25th  and  Dolores.   The  big  Victorian  (not  on  its  original 
site,  but  moved  there  by  WCC  some  15  years  before)  was  still  filled  with 
WCC  technicians  installing  computer  terminals.   The  job  had  been  only 
half  completed  when  Tom  moved  in. 

"Hey,  buddy,"  called  a  technician  as  Tom  walked  into  the  house. 
"Hold  this  flashlight,  will  ya?" 

"Sure,"  Tom  said  and  took  the  pen  light.   He  was  enjoying  the  fact 
that  the  New  Jersey  technician  didn't  recognize  him  as  the  head  of  the 
Sixteen.   Tom  was  dressed  in  simple  corporate  coveralls.   "What's  the 
hassle?" 

"No  problem  except  this  damn  angle,"  the  man  said.   "Whoever  de- 
signed this  goddam  place  had  no  sense.    He  should  be  canned!" 

"He's  probably  dead,"  Tom  said.   "The  place  was  built  in  1886  before 
electricity. " 

"Yeah?"  the  technician  said,  half- interested. 

At  that  point,  Tom's  sergeant-driver,  who  had  parked  the  van,  en- 
tered the  Victorian.    He  was  shocked  to  see  Tom  being  used  as  a  helper. 
Tom  winked  at  him  to  prevent  the  sergeant  from  giving  the  ruse  away. 

Tom  continued  to  hold  the  light.   "What  do  you  think  of  this  Tom  ?" 

"Who  knows  ?  Who  cares  ?  Scuttlebutt  has  it  that  he's  tops  in  his 
field.   But  you  know  Ma  Corp.  always  starts  these  rumors  about  their 
bigwigs.  I  seen  a  couple  of  minutes  of  that  wedding.   That  Suzie  Sunshine 
is  a  nice  piece. . .  "  He  stopped  himself  on  noticing  the  sergeant  standing 
behind  him.   Members  of  WCC  Security  weren't  all  that  popular  among 
the  employees  of  WCC.   Certainly  they  shouldn't  be  admitted  to  the  sar- 
castic chit-chat  common  among  technicians. 

After  10  minutes  the  connection  was  made  and  Tom  returned  the  pen 
light.   Tom  read  the  name  on  the  coverall.   "Nice  talking  to  you,  Harry. 
Why  don't  you  join  me  for  dinner  tonight.    The  whole  crew  is  invited. 
I'm  Tom.  "  With  that,  he  and  the  sergeant  walked  away  from  the  bewil- 
dered man. 

Later,  Tom  thought  about  it  and  realized  the  reason  for  the  techni- 
cian's suspicion  of  the  sergeant.   In  the  month  and  a  half  the  sergeant  had 
been  assigned  to  him,  he  had  never  told  Tom  his  name.   "Sergeant,  I'd 
like  you  and  your  boys  not  to  come  to  the  dinner  tonight.   I  don't  think  I 
need  security  against  my  own  people.  "  Actually,  he  wanted  to  sound  out 
the  men  without  uniformed  presence. 

Tom  reached  his  office  and  found  Graham,  one  of  the  Sixteen,  waiting 
for  him.   Tom  dismissed  the  sergeant  and  closed  the  door  behind  him. 
"Glad  you  could  come,  Graham." 

"Did  I  have  a  choice?"  Graham  said  bitterly.    He  was  a  man  who 
avoided  human  contact  with  a  passion. 

"Sit  down,"  Tom  ordered  and  sat  behind  his  own  desk- console.  He 
immediately  punched  in  his  code  and  looked  at  the  screen.    "Let's  see. . . 
uh. . .  you  were  born  Alexis  Sneg  in  Leningrad  in  1960.   You  took  your 
doctor  of  science  in  computer  sciences  in  1981  from  Moscow  University. . 
very  impressive  for  21.    Post  doctoral  work  with  the  Union  of  Cosmonauts. 
Two  orbital  flights  before  30.   You  designed  the  auxiliary  computers  for 
the  Titan  Environmental  Module.   A  wife  in  1983.    Two  children  by  1990. 
Nothing  on  record  for  the  next  10  years.   In  1998,  you  joined  WCC.  By 
2011,  you  were  elected  to  the  Sixteen.    You've  been  around.  " 

"What's  the  point  of  all  this?" 

"The  Titan  project  is  the  point.   Tell  me,  are  you  still  a  Communist?" 
"The  great  social  revolution  failed,"  Graham  said  with  more  than  a 
trace  of  irony.   "My  present  ideology  is  this  corporation. " 
"What  happened  to  your  wife  and  kids?" 
"Dead.  " 

Tom  sat  back.   "According  to  my  information,  both  your  children  are 
on  the  Latvian  Commune  Number  237.    Why  do  you  say  they're  dead  ?" 
"I  don't  wish  to  discuss  it.   They're  undoubtedly  happy  as  peasants.  " 
"Your  wife?" 

Graham's  face  was  a  mask. 


Tom  nodded  and  leaned  over  the  console,  touching  a  few  keys.  "There 
were  22  people  sent  to  Saturn's  moon  Titan  in  1995.  Among  them  is  a  cer- 
tain Galya  Sneg.   Is  that  your  wife  ?" 

"They're  dead.   All  22  of  them.   Abandoned  to  roam  forever  in  an 
eliptical  orbit  on  their  way  to  Titan. " 

"You  don't  believe  that,  Alexis.   They're  in  suspended  animation, 
frozen,  originally  scheduled  to  land  on  Titan  in  January  of  2030.  For 
years,  you've  been  secretly  monitoring  the  ship.   I  discovered  your  pro- 
gram six  years  ago  when  I  was  in  Tokyo.   I  did  it  by  accident  when  I  was 
investigating  the  091  model.    You  even  made  two  course  corrections.  I 
decided  not  to  blow  the  whistle  on  you.   In  fact,  it  was  I  who  insured  no 
one  else  would  stumble  onto  your  illegal  operation. 11  Tom  reached  into 
a  drawer.  "Cigar?" 

Graham-Alexis  nervously  accepted  the  cigar.    Tom  lit  it  for  him. 

"What  did  you  hope  to  accomplish?  When  the  leader  blew  all  the 
rockets  in  '96,  he  effectively  insured  that  no  relief  expedition  could  fol- 
low.   You  didn't  really  believe  that  WCC  would  build  a  rocket  to  follow, 
did  you?" 

"I  held  hopes.   They're  shattered  now.  " 

"Not  really.   If  the  records  are  right,  they  can  last  three  years  on 
landing  with  existing  supplies  from  their  ship." 

Graham  laughed.   "For  what?  Three  rockets  were  to  follow  in  2005. 
They  were  to  be  unmanned  so  they  could  fly  at  high  continuous  accelera- 
tion.  They  were  to  refuel  and  reoutfit  the  expedition  so  they  could  return. 
Even  if  we  had  the  three  rockets  now,  they'd  never  reach  them  in  time. " 

"Don't  be  so  sure.    The  rockets  were  blown  in  '96,  but  the  plans  are 
still  in  the  computer. "  Tom  tapped  the  console.   "We  can  build  a  dozen 
or  more  in  six  months.   We  won't  have  time  for  tests  but  at  least  one  will 
arrive  two  years  later  with  a  few  more  years'  supplies  for  the  colony. " 

"Impossible.   Saturn  is  744  million  miles  from  Earth  at  its  closest 
point. " 

"Look,  Alexis,  you're  your  own  worst  enemy.  Just  because  we 
stopped  developing  rockets  doesn't  mean  theoretical  physics  stopped 
moving  ahead.    Ever  hear  of  the  Ives- Bennett  effect?" 

"How  are  you  going  to  translate  that  into  a  rocket  engine  in  six 
months?" 

Tom  smiled.   "Good  old  American  know-how.   Luck.  Statistical 
chance.   I  propose  to  build  14  variations  on  the  effect.   Statistically,  two 
of  those  rockets  should  reach  Titan  after  the  expedition  lands.  Next 
month,  we'll  awaken  the  22  crew  members  by  remote  control  so  we  can 
prepare  them  for  the  landing.    Right  on  schedule.  " 

Alexis- Graham  was  shaking.   "I  want  to  be  project  director.  " 

"I  wouldn't  want  it  any  other  way,  Alexis,"  Tom  said.   The  bright 
spark  in  the  former  misanthrope's  eye  told  Tom  he  had  been  right  in 
taking  the  gamble. 

Suddenly  Alexis  was  deep  in  thought.   Tom  didn't  say  anything.  He 
waited. 

"What  will  people  say  to  rebuilding  rockets?"  Alexis  asked.  "We've 
been  pounding  the  notion  that  they're  associated  with  atomic  terror.  " 

"I  didn't  say  it  was  going  to  be  easy.    The  first  thing  is  to  rename 
them  something  other  than  rockets. .  .say,  IPMs  for  Interplanetary  Pro- 
pulsion Modules.   Initials  have  a  way  of  obscuring  facts.    Let's  leave  it 
to  Mary.   She's  our  political  expert.    Besides,  we  have  Suzie  Sunshine, 
the  persona  total  of  the  simple  life,  on  our  side.   If  she  can  sell  people  on 
eating  soybeans  and  liking  it,  she  can  sell  them  on  anything.   You  don't 
think  I  put  up  with  her  split  personality  for  nothing,  do  you?" 

Alexis-Graham  rose  from  his  seat,  went  around  the  desk  to  Tom  and 
kissed  him  on  the  forehead.    He  then  walked  out  with  great  dignity,  a 
man  reborn. 

NEXT  iBQWTH:     the  awakening 


icy  mornings 


in  a  magic  mountain  house 

gold  icecaps  stood  on  rooftops 

eye  dreams  teased  but  never  touched 


one  night  the  dim  lights  stayed  on 

till  the  sun  rose 

our  heads  had  fallen  together 

after  years  of  chopping  wood 

logs  frozen  solid 

flames  too  cold  for  burning 

music  whined  as  we  melted  icicles 

of  night  into  spring 

eyes  still  open  in  the  morning 

you  went  north  braving  colder  storms 

i  went  west  fleeing  winter 

and  your  world  of  icy  mornings 


-  Donna  Rutsky 
©  1979 


THE 
NOE 
VALLEY 
VOICE 


ADVERTISING 

Phone  282-8434 
or  68  1  -  3  6  S  8 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 


By  Victoria  Colgan 


11 


RABAT 

24th  and  Noe  Streets 

A  larger  space  and  more  sun- 
shine have  drawn  Patricia  Woody 
and  Roselee  Wangel  to  move  their 
popular  women's  clothing  shop  to 
a  new  location,  after  seven  years 
in  two  other  Noe  Valley  spots.  The 
abundance  of  natural  light  makes  a 
big  difference  in  matching  colors, 
and  they  plan  to  expand  their  in- 
ventory, especially  of  accessories, 
to  take  advantage  of  the  extra 
space. 

The  old  candy  counter  from 
Hopwell's,  preserved  by  the  own- 
ers, now  has  customers  drooling 
over  "non-caloric  goodies"  such 
as  scarves,  belts,  combs  and  


Rabat  takes  its  name  from  the 
Moroccan  city,  and  the  color 
scheme  of  the  new  shop  carries 
the  flavor  of  Morocco,  the  source 
of  many  of  the  garments  imported 
for  the  store. 

Hours  are  Mon.  -Sat. ,  11 
to  6.    Closed  Sun.  282-7861. 

SALONICAS 
24th  Street  near  Noe 

A  new  name  and  a  new  face  are 
now  gracing  the  former  site  of  The 
Jury  Room.   The  bar  has  been  ex- 
tensively remodeled,  with  carpet- 
ing, antiques  and  mirrors  taking 
the  place  of  the  games  and  pool- 
tables  that  were  removed.  The 
new  owner,  Basil  Christodoulou, 
took  the  name  from  his  hometown 
in  Greece. 

Hors  D'oeuvres  are  served 
every  evening  except  Sunday,  from 
4:30  till  "whenever  they're  gone, " 
and  usually  include  roast  beef, 
ham,  cheeses,  crackers,  and  a 
specialty  of  the  house.   A  variety 
of  mellow  taped  music  has  re- 
placed the  jukebox,  and  an  acous- 
tic trio  of  guitar,  bass  and  piano, 
will  play  as  frequently  as  possible 
on  Sunday  afternoons.  285-6272. 


NovaLine 

THE  ULTIMATE 
ELECTRONIC  PIANOS 


REAL  PIANO  TOUCH 
88  OR  64  KEYS 
THE  TRUEST  PIANO  SOUND 
SELF-CONTAINED  (OPTIONAL)- Built-  In  Amp/Speakers 
FULLY  PORTABLE 
NO  TUNING  EVER 

OPTIONAL  PRIVATE  OPERATION-  Headphones 
LEATHER-LOOK  VINYL 

BLACK  OR  WHITE  WITH  CHROME-LOOK  TRIM 
OR  BROWN  WITH  BROWN  TRIM 
OPERATION*  House  Current  or  Battery 

ITAL-MUSICA 

3831  24th  STREET 
SAN  FRANCISCO  94114 

285-1211 


CRftDI.E 


CRADLE  OF  THE  SUN 
1195  Church  at  24th  Street 

If  you're  lucky  enough  to  be 
renovating  one  of  Noe  Valley's 
Victorians,  or  just  looking  for  a 
very  special  gift,  you  may  want 
to  check  out  Cradle  of  the  Sun 
for  stained  glass,  leaded  win- 
dows, and  foiled  panels. 

Formerly  located  at  25th  and 
Sanchez,  Dan  Gamaldi  has  re- 
cently moved  his  one-man  opera- 
tion to  Church  Street  at  24th. 
Prints  of  many  of  his  works  are 
available  for  browsing,  as  well 
as  the  many  samples  which  adorn 
the  new  shop.   Business,  resi- 
dential and  repair  work  is  taken. 
Hours  are  Tues.  -Sat. , 

10:30  to  "at  least"  5:30. 

Closed  Sun.  &  Mon.  821-7667, 


A  DIFFERENT  POINT  OF  VIEW 
4066  -  24th  St.  near  Noe 

Featuring  "toys  we  always 
wanted  as  kids  and  couldn't  find, " 
A  Different  Point  of  View  opened 
its  doors  last  month  to  Noe  Val- 
ley's younger  set.   Owner  Arlene 
Lee  was  inspired  to  start 
a  toy  business  while  shopping  in 
toy  stores  with  her  own  little  boy. 
The  store  specializes  in  hand- 
crafted, durable,  "child-safe" 
toys  for  children  up  to  age  6  or  7, 
but  has  already  found  a  few  "34- 
year-old  kids"  among  its  clientele. 

Since  most  of  the  customers 
are  knee-high,  Lee  has  arranged 
as  many  toys  as  possible  on  low 
shelving,  easily  visible  from  the 
child's  ("different")  point  of  view. 
Handmade  quilts,  shirts  and 
mobiles  are  also  available,  and 
she  plans  to  stock  more  educa- 
tional, kit  -type  toys  in  the  near 
future. 

Hours  are  Tues.  -Sat. ,  10 
to  6.   Sun. ,  12  to  5.  Closed 
Mon.  647-4977. 


Support  Your  Local  Merchants 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  PRINTERS 

One  stop  service  for  all  your  printing 
needs  *   4017  Twenty-Fourth  Street 
San  Francisco,  94114  *  824.3245  ****** 


raDoc 

NEW  LOCATION 

4001  24th  Street 
San  Francisco 
California  94114 
415-282-7861 


EAXTH  SIGN 
BOOKS 


BOOKS  TO  GROW  WITH  -  ASTROLOGY  TO  ZEN 
"MUSIC  FROM  THE  HEARTS  OF  SPACE" 

415-824-3373  4155  24TH  ST.  SF.CA. 94114 
COME  IN  OR  CALL         D         GIFT  BROCHURE 


12 


THE  NOE  VALLEY  VOICE 


^  A  L  E  N  DAK 


July  1         Brahms  and  Schubert  Concert  by  Cesar  Cancino,  Commu- 
nity Music  Center,  544  Capp  St.  ,  3  p.  m.   $3  general 
admission,  $2  seniors  and  students. 

July  2         Introduction  to  Cervical  Self-Exam,  S.  F.  Women's  Health 
Center,  3789  -  24th  St.    7:30  p.  m.  $3. 

July  6         Performance  by  Cosmic  Comedy,  Earth  Sign  Books,  4155 
24th  St.  8p.m. 

July  7         Hawaiian  Hula:  Ancient  and  Modern,  slide-lecture  perfor- 
mance by  Rucina  Ballinger.   Noe  Valley  Ministry,  1021 
Sanchez  St.   7:30  p.m. 

July  11       "The  Treasures  of  Tutankhamum , "  slidetalk  by  Spring 
Kraeger,  Noe  Valley  Library,  451  Jersey  St.   7:30  p.  m. 

July  11       Noe  Valley  Merchants  Association  meeting,  Noe  Valley 
Ministry,  1021  Sanchez  St.   7:30  p.m. 

July  12        Friends  of  Noe  Valley  Steering  Committee  Meeting,  Noe 
Valley  Library,  451  Jersey  St.   8  p.  m. 

July  13        Folk  Song  Fest,  led  by  Pat  Wynne,  Cooperative  Community 
Center,  777  Valencia  St.    8:30  p.m. 

July  14        Painting  program  for  children  6  or  older,  Noe  Valley 
Library,  451  Jersey  St.   Wear  old  clothes.   2  p.m. 

July  14       Benefit  Garage  Sale  for  S.  F.  Women's  Health  Center, 
24th  St.  near  Dolores.   10  a.m.  to  5  p.m. 

July  15       Community  Potluck  Dinner,  Cooperative  Community  Center, 
777  Valencia  St.  ,  6  p.  m.  to  8  p.  m.   Seminar  on  "Power, 
Economics  and  Strokes  within  the  Radical  Psychiatric 
Community,"  8  p.m.  to  10  p.m. 

July  17       Slideshow  on  Home  Birth  and  discussion  led  by  Bay  Area 
midwives,  Homecoming  Clinic,  80  Vicksburg  St.  (between 
22nd  and  23rd  Streets).   8  p.  m.   Call  826-3892. 

July  22       Politics  and  Spirituality  Workshop  with  Margo  Adair, 

Cooperative  Community  Center,  777  Valencia  St.  ,  7:30  to 
10:30  p.  m. 

July  22       "Gift  to  the  City,"  free  performance  by  the  Oberlin  Dance 

Collective,  Margaret  Jenkins  Dance  Studio,  1590  -  15th  St. , 
7  p.m. 

July  22        Picnic  for  Friends  of  Kay  Pachtner,  Glen  Canyon  Park 

near  O'Shaughnessy  Blvd.  and  Bosworth  St.   Noon  to  6  p.m. 
Call  863-0639  for  info. 

July  25       Slide  lecture  on  Victoriana  by  Judith  Waldhorn,  Noe  Valley 
Library,  451  Jersey  St.   7:30  p.m. 

July  26       Post- Abortion  Support  Group,  sponsored  by  S.  F.  Women's 
Health  Center,  3789  -  24th  St.   7:30  p.  m.   $5  first  session. 

July  27        Polarity  Yoga,  with  Bruce  Gridley,  Cooperative  Community 
Center,  777  Valencia  St.   8:30  p.m. 

July  29        Palestine  Cultural  Day  Festival,  Hall  of  Flowers,  Golden 
Gate  Park,  9th  Ave.  and  Lincoln  Way.   $1  admission. 
Children  under  12  free. 

July  31        Films  for  children  6  or  older:  "Ghosts  and  Ghoulies," 
"Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow.  "  Noe  Valley  Library,  451 
Jersey  St.  ,  4  p.  m.     Films  for  preschoolers:  "I  Know  an 
Old  Lady  Who  Swallowed  a  Fly,"  "Rosie's  Walk.",  10:30  a.  m. 

§  mm  WM&Mf  mmmmik 

□  Films  are  shown  Fridays  at  8  p.  m.  at  the  Noe  Valley 
g  Ministry,  1021  Sanchez  Street.  $1  members,  $2  general. 
O  282-5354.  Live  piano  accompaniment  by  Robert  Heilbuth. 
O 


July  6 


a 
a 
o 

(3 
3 
O 

a 

O  July  20 


July  13 


3 

a 


July  27 


"Le  Petit  Theatre  De  Jean  Renoir,"  three  vi- 
gnettes of  French  manners  and  morals;  "Max 
Linden  Comic  Genius"  (short) 
Laurel  &  Hardy  in  "A  Chump  at  Oxford"  and 
"The  Bohemian  Girl";  cartoon:  "Holidayland" 

"The  Loneliness  of  The  Long  Distance  Runner" 

Douglas  Fairbanks  in  "Thief  of  Bagdad";  car- 
toon: Max  Fleischer's  "The  Tantalizing  Fly.  " 


ONGOING  EVENTS 


July  12  -     "Duykers  the  First,"  by  George  Coates  with  actor/singer 
July  22       John  Duykers.    Eureka  Theatre,  16th  and  Market.   Thurs.  - 
Sun.  ,  8  p.m.   $4  Thurs.  ,  Sun.   $5  Fri.  ,  Sat.  863-7133. 

July  26  -     "Eliminations,"  by  Winston  Tong  and  Bruce  Geduldig. 
Aug.  5        Eureka  Theatre,  16th  and  Market,    (same  times  and  prices 
as  above) 

July  1  -  Bread,  wine  and  cheese  concerts  on  Sunday  Summer  Eves, 
July  2.9        Noe  Valley  Ministry,  1021  Sanchez  St.   7  to  9:30  p.  m.  $2. 

At  the  Noe  Valley  Library,  451  Jersey  St.  ,  285-2788: 

—  Community  Garden  Workdays.   2nd  and  4th  Sat.  ,  9  a.m.  to  2  p.m. 

—  Preschool  Story  Hours.    Tues. ,  10:30  a.m.  and  1:30  p.m. 

—  Story  Hour  for  Ages  6-10.   Thurs.  ,  4  p.  m. 

At  the  Cooperative  Community  Center,  777  Valencia  St.  ,  552-5445: 

—  Drop-in  personal  problem -solving  groups,  using  radical  psychiatry 
techniques.    Fri.  ,  6:30  -  8:30  p.m. 

—  Planned  and  informal  social  activities.    Fri.  ,  8:30  -  10:30  p.  m. 

Please  send  CALENDAR  items  before  the  20th  day  of  the  month  preceding 
month  of  issue  to  the  Noe  Valley  Voice,  1021  Sanchez  St. ,  S.  F. ,  94114. 


CLASSIFIEDS 


GARDENING/LANDSCAPING: 
Spring  clean-up,  pruning,  plant- 
ing and  monthly  maintenance 
rates  available.   Just  call  June 
Roberts,  282-7432. 

FOUR  HANDS  HOUSECLEANING: 
Two  person  teamwork.  $10/hr. 
References.  668-5187. 

WRITERS,  EDITORS,  PRODUC- 
TION personnel,  the  Noe  Valley 
Voice  needs  your  help.  Call 
282-8434  or  648-3927. 


CHEAP  ADVERTISING!  Publicize 
your  August  garage  sale  in  the 
Noe  Valley  Voice  Classifieds. 
10  cents  a  word.   Send  ad  copy 
and  check  to  1021  Sanchez  St.  , 
94114,  by  the  20th  of  the  month 
preceding  month  of  issue. 

THREE  SISTERS  Landscape 
Gardening.    Pruning.  Lawn 
installation,  renovation  and 
maintenance.   General  gard- 
en maintenance.  Reliable, 
experienced.     64 8 -4 8 51/ eves. 


The  ingredients  for  crust  are 
3/4  cup  shortening  and  2  cups  of 
white  flour.   See  your  favorite 
cookbook  or  friend  for  preparation 
directions. 

Peel  and  pare  5  to  7  firm  Pippin 
apples.   Add  1  cup  brown  sugar, 
1/3  cup  untoasted  wheat  germ,  1/2 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  1/4  teaspoon 
ginger  and  2  drops  lemon  extract. 
When  raisin  prices  come  down  to 


earth,  add  1/2  cup  of  them.  Bake 
45  minutes  at  375°. 

Repeat  this  process  20  times 
and  take  the  resulting  beauties  to 
your  neighborhood  street  fair. 


kvvai.  a  iV-iouiiLi    a        jl  HO    A  cull  OA  J.  fJLllg    X-  Xy  . 


the  way  they  really  are 

fine  tuned  wit 
sits  at  one  end  of  the  bar 
and  next  to  her 
receptive  humor. 


pastel  angels  float  in 
black  and  red  interior 
gulping  ice  drinks 
and  imported  smoke 
rose  mouth 
giddy 

with  a  city  tested  smile 
wet  circles  on  mahogany 
the  busboy  dries. 


upstairs  ella 

claws  chenille  puffs  on 

her  bedspread 

right  before  the  drug  moves  in 
upstairs  ella  just 
decided  to  let  them  wait 
till  they  find  her 
then  they'll  see 


the  way  they  really  are 
the  monsters 

pushing  each  other  under  trains 
pistoling  each  other's  brains 
a  pack  of  maddened  animals 
this  city 

the  way  they  really  are 
can  be  seen  in  the 
light  of  day 

upstairs  ella 

is  busy  not  taking  it 

any  more 

the  way  they  really  are 

downstairs  the  busboy  winks 
receptive  humor  winks, 
orders  another  drink 

and  snaps  a  salty  frito 
smiling  rose  mouthed, 
blushing  back  to  her  friend 
lacking  the  capacity 
for  personal  involvement 

—  Ellen  Buoncristiani 
©1979 


