The  Semaphore _ THD  1954  - 1994 


l^i/c 

March  1994 


©  1994  by  Herb  Kosovitz 


Show  Your  Hill  Colors 

Have  you  ever  looked  in  the  closet  and  wondered, 
“What  do  I  wear  to  these  THD  events?” 

The  SOLUTION  -  first  time  ever  offered  -  an  official 
Telegraph  Hill  Dwellers  T-shirt  and/or  sweatshirt! 

Our  logo,  updated  by  artist  and  THD  member  Herb 
Kosovitz,  will  be  the  central  focus  on  a  forest  green 
background  on  both  the  T-shirt  and  sweatshirt. 
(Please  see  page  11) 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  2 


Board  of  Directors  1993-1994 

THD  Officers  1993  -1994 
President:  Bob  Tibbits, 

386  Chestnut,  986-7227 
Vice  President:  Mia  Morrill, 

576  Greenwich,  982-4850 
Recording  Sec’y:  Judy  Fink, 

341  Lombard,  986-3945 
Corresponding  Sec’y:  Lynn  Butler, 

468  Greenwich,  956-5307 
Treasurer:  Rita  Buchfinck, 

1028  Montgomery,  399-0432 
Financial  Sec’y:  Bob  Use, 

24  Winsor  Place,  291-0420 
Historian:  Joe  Luttrell, 

28  Napier  Lane,  255-6400 
Semaphore  Editor:  Clyde  Steiner, 

20  Prescott,  398-8093 
Ex  Officio: 

June  Fraps 

1952  Stockton,  392-1187 
Semaphore  Staff: 

Advertising  Manager:  Steve  Hord 
50  Alta,  781-1117 
Business  Manager:  Joe  Luttrell 
28  Napier  Lane,  255-6400 

The  Semaphore  is  a  publication  of  the  Telegraph  Hill  Dwellers 
for  its  members.  Articles,  except  for  the  summary  of  Board  of 
Directors’  Motions,  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  official  position  of 
the  Association  or  its  Officers,  but  are  the  opinions  of  the  writers  of 
the  individual  signed  articles.  The  Association  can  take  no  responsi¬ 
bility  for  their  content.  This  membership  publication  is  not  to  be 
reprinted  or  disseminated  without  permission  in  writing. 

Printed  on  recycled  paper. 


Directors  1993-94 
Jarilyn  Cerruti, 

348  Lombard,  421-3820 
Maud  Hallin, 

463  Greenwich,  781-3761 
Gerald  Hurtado, 

1156  Kearny,  788-7723 
Jim  Miller, 

365  Green,  956-7848 

Directors  1993-1995 
Wally  Breitman, 

1201  Kearny,  398-0636 
David  Kennedy, 

1415  Kearny  788-7887 
Jim  Valenti,  1138 
1138  Montgomery,  398-0076 
Wells  Whitney, 

1308  Montgomery,  398-5077 


THD  Board 
Motions 


January  11, 1994 

Voted  to  support  the  merging  of 
two  owner-occupied  units  at  30-32 
Napier  Lane,  but  to  oppose  a  Vari¬ 
ance  to  expand  the  structure  which 
is  in  Telegraph  Hill  Historic  Dis¬ 
trict.  A  public  hearing  has  been 
conducted  by  the  Zoning  Admin¬ 
istrator,  and  a  decision  is  expected 
shortly. 

Voted  to  join  several  other 
neighborhood  organizations  in  con¬ 
tributing  $250  to  pay  for  an  inde¬ 
pendent  professional  critique  of 
the  Negative  Declaration  on  the 
environment  impact  made  by  the 
Department  of  City  Planning  re¬ 
garding  the  proposed  Residential 
Conservation  Controls.  The  City 
Planning  Commission  has  shelved 
further  consideration  of  the  RCCs 
at  the  request  of  the  Mayor. 

February  8,  1994 

Voted  to  oppose  the  granting  of 
an  encroachment  permit  to  con¬ 
struct  a  bus  shelter  on  the  north¬ 
west  comer  of  Columbus  Avenue 
and  Union  Street  on  the  narrow 
sidewalk  in  front  of  Frank  Marini 
Park.  The  applicant  decided  to 
withdraw  its  application  after  en¬ 
countering  opposition  from  the 
neighborhood  as  well  as  local  busi¬ 
nessmen. 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  3 


This  past  year  at  the  helm  of  THD  has  taught  me  some 
important  lessons  about  the  impact  neighborhood  organiza¬ 
tions  can  have  on  governance  and  administration  of  the  City. 
The  Waterfront  Plan  Advisory  Board  that  was  created  by  the 
Port  in  response  to  the  passage  of  Prop  H  (“No  hotels  on  the  piers”),  has 
been  finalizing  its  determinations  of  acceptable  and  unacceptable  non- 
maritime  land  uses  of  Port  piers  and  seawall  lots. 


This  board,  including  myself  (recently  appointed  by  Supervisor 
Maher  to  replace  his  initial  “no-show”  selection)  and  THDer  Nan  Roth, 
an  original  member  who  has  been  a  regular  participant,  is  composed  of 
other  neighborhood  representatives  from  New  Hunters  Point  Home 
Owners  Association,  Potrero  League  of  Active  Neighbors,  Western 
Addition  Concerned  Citizens,  Rincon/Southbeach  Advisory  Commit¬ 
tee,  Golden  Gateway  Tenants  and  Planning  Association  of  the  Rich¬ 
mond,  as  well  as  appointees  from  a  cross  section  of  business  and 
professional  organizations. 


President's 

Letter 

from  Bob  Tibbits 


After  more  than  two  years  of  arduous  deliberations,  a  broad-based 
consensus  is  being  crafted  on  appropriate  commercial  uses,  public  access 
and  open  space  locations  and  traditional  maritime  activities  all  along  the 
waterfront.  Kudos  all  around:  especially  for  Chairman  Bob  Tufts  and  for 
the  outstanding  support  of  City  staffers,  Diane  Oshima  (City  Planning 
Department),  Noreen  Ambrose  (City  Attorney’s  Office),  Sharon  Lee 
Polledri,  Dan  Hodapp  and  Ann  Cook  from  the  Port. 

HD  has  also  been  active  in  the  citizen  review  process  for  the 
proposed  Residential  Conservation  Controls  intended  to  replace 
the  1978  zoning  ordinance  with  less  restrictive  regulations 
concerning  height  limits,  rear-yard  open  space  and  offstreet 
parking  in  the  residential  areas  of  San  Francisco.  Numerous 
and  oft-times  exhaustive  public  hearings  were  held  with  a 
continuing  parade  of  neighborhood  representatives  express¬ 
ing  concerns  about  increased  density,  changes  in  the  character 
of  neighborhoods,  loss  of  affordable  housing  and  failure  to  recog 
nize  the  increased  demands  on  public  services. 


But  the  City  Planning  Commission  was  listening  to  a  different 
drummer,  so  a  Zoning  Advisory  Task  Force  from  The  League  of  S.F. 
Neighborhoods  and  Coalition  of  S.F.  Neighborhoods  (over  60  organiza¬ 
tions  in  total)  decided  to  approach  the  Mayor  with  a  handful  of  specific 
recommendations  to  simply  amend  the  1 978  code  (rather  than  add  almost 
400  pages  of  RCC  text  changes  and  additions).  Mayor  Frank  Jordan,  to 
his  credit,  recognized  another  serious  public  policy  problem  festering  in 
neighborhoods  that  had  supported  him  in  the  1992  election:  the  RCC’s 


Continued  on  Page  7 


Susan  Spano  of  the 
NEWYORKTIMES  wrote: 

“...the  San  Remo’s  location  pleased  me, 
and  its  attractions  didn’t  stop  there.  In 
fact,  no  sooner  had  I  climbed  the  steep, 
carpeted  staircase  leading  to  the  check¬ 
in  desk  than  I  decided  I  had  struck  gold. 
Long,  winding  corridors  lined  with 
redwood  wainscotting  and  neatly  painted 
exposed  pipes,  entwined  with 
philodendron  vines,  lead  to  62  guest 
rooms  on  two  floors,  ranging  in  price 
from  $45  to  $75.  There  are  cubbyholes, 
crowded  with  armoires,  vanities,  rag  rugs 
and  19th  century  prints,  in  the  cozy  style 
of  Grandma's  house.” 

. . .  Fully  satisfied  by  my  accommodations 
at  last,  I  began  my  exploration  of  North 
Beach.” 

. . .  You  could  spend  more  on  a  visit  to  San 
Francisco,  but  you  would  not  experience 
the  singular  sort  of  contentment  -  and 
even  smugness  -  that  comes  when  you 
have  had  a  wonderful  time  and  snagged 
a  good  deal.” 

January  16,  1994 


-ikSAN 

RBMO 


$35  -  $65  per  night 

Tel:  776-8688 

2237  Mason  St.  at  Chestnut,  San  Francisco,  94133 


ABLE  BUILDING  MAINTENANCE  CO. 

868  Folsom  Street,  San  Francisco,  Calif.  94107,  Tel:  981-8070 


Angelo  J.  Boschetto 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  5 


■  San  Francisco  Mayor 
Frank  Jordan  will  explain 
his  current  and  future 
plans  for  the  City  to  THD 
members  at  the  Dwellers'  annual 
general  meeting  April  11  at 
Castagnola’s.  Election  of  officers 
and  changes  to  the  bylaws  are  also 
on  the  adgenda.  Cocktails  are  at 
6:30  pm  and  the  meeting  starts  at  7. 
Please  make  reservations  with 
Jarilyn  Cerruti  at  421-3820 


Mayor  Jordan 
to  Address 
Annual 
THD  Meeting 


The  following  THD  members  have  been  nominated  and  have  agreed  to 
serve  in  helping  quide  the  THD  if  elected  at  the  April  1 1  general  meeting. 

Officers  1994  - 1995  Directors  - 1994  - 1996 


President :  Bob  Tibbits  Billie  Atlas 

Vice  President :  Mia  Morrilll  Pat  Cady 

Recording  Sec'y  :  Judy  Fink  Jarilyn  Cerruti 

Corresponding  Sec’y:  Lynn  Butler Trieia  Brown 

Treasurer  :  Maud  Hallin  Directors  -  1994  -  1995 

Financial  Secretary  :  Bob  Ilse  Breitman 

Historian  :  Joe  Luttrell  ?aVv  ^enne^ 

Semaphore  Editor  :  Clyde  Steiner  ^Whimey 


Nominees  for 
Board  of 
Directors 


A  committee  composed  of  former  presidents  Anne  Halsted,  Jane 
Winslow,  Rod  Freebaim-Smith  and  June  Fraps,  and  former  vice  president 
Herb  Kosovitz,  have  proposed  some  changes  in  THD  bylaws  to  reflect 
changes  that  have  occurred  in  the  way  the  organization  functions. 

Essentially,  the  proposed  changes:  Expand  THD  boundaries  to  the 
Embarcadero;  Increase  the  vice  president’s  duties  to  include  participation 
in  committees;  Delete  the  job  of  program  chair  from  the  corresponding 
secretary’s  duties;  Change  the  status  of  five  committees  to  standing 
committees;  and  Delete  a  statement  which  might  be  construed  to  prevent 
the  organization  from  providing  a  forum  for  various  candidates  at  Issues 
Night. 


Proposed 
Changes  To 
THD  Bylaws 


The  formal  text  follows,  with  changes  or  additions  shown  in  italic,  and 
deletions  shown  in  bold.  The  proposed  changes  will  be  presented  at  the 
next  general  membership  meeting  for  approval.  Continued  on  page  9 


Telegraph  Hill  Residents  Since  1987 
Active  Telegraph  Hill  Dwellers  Members 
Specializing  in 
Telegraph  and  Russian  Hills 


CURTISS  and  CARLIE  GIBBS 

Pacific  Union  Residential  Brokerage 
601  Van  Ness,  San  Francisco 
(415)474-6600 


JUIIUS 

CASTLE 

1541  Montgomery  St  San  Francisco.  CA 
Atop  Telegraph  Hill  overlooking  San  Francisco  Bay 
Featuring  exquisite  continental  cuisine, 
elegant  service,  rare  vintage  wines  and  spirits 
with  unsurpassed  views  in  an  intimcie  atmosphere. 

A  San  Francisco  Tradition  since  1922. 

Lunch  Monday*  Friday  from  11:30-4:00  p  : tv 
Evenings  from  5:00-10:00  p.m. 


All  major  credit  cards  accepted.  /  Valet  Parking  /  Private  Parties  Welcome 


John  J.  Sims  415-781*8120 


CONSTRUCTION 


Specializing  in  Structural  and  Seismic  Work 
Foundations,  Framing  and  Garage  Installations 

90  Alta  #3  •  S.F.  CA  94133  •  lie.  No.  388301 


LUNCH  -  DINNER  -  LATE  NIGHT 
Eat  in  or  Take  Out 

Bay  &  Powell  -  Northpoint  Mall 

Validated  Parking 


CONSTRUCTION 


RESTORATIONS 

DESIGNS 

ADDITIONS 

OUR  SPECIALTY  IS  REMODLING 

•  Period  Styles 

•  The  Unique 
•The  Elegant 

•  Custom  Cabinets 

•  Custom  Doors 

•  Custom  windows 

FINE  WORKMANSHIP 
PORTFOLIO  -  REFERENCES 

CHUCK  THOMAS  -  OWNER 

410  LOMBARD  STREET 
STATE  LICENCE  #484049 

415  -  677  -  9466 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  7 


“allow  too  much  discretion  and  could,  if  not  implemented  properly, 
allow  the  type  of  construction  to  occur  that  most  neighborhoods  and  property 
owners  would  oppose,”  he  wrote  City  Planning  Commissioners  on 
February  10  th. 

Further  commission  action  has  effectively  been  tabled  in  favor  of 
working  with  constructive  amendments  generated  by  members  of  the  task 
force.  We  are  all  indebted  to  these  hard-working  and  savvy  zoning 
advocates  from  North  Beach  Neighbors,  Presidio  Heights  Association  of 
Residents,  Cow  Hollow  Association,  Greater  West  Portal  Neighborhood 
Association,  Sunset-Parkside  Education  and  Action  Committee,  Inner 
Sunset  Action  Committee,  Golden  Gates  Heights  Neighborhood  Associa¬ 
tion,  Russian  Hill  Improvement  Association,  Lakeshore  Acres  Improve¬ 
ment  Club,  Potrero  League  of  Active  Neighbors,  New  Mission  Terrace 
Association,  Neighbors  of  the  Excelsior  and  especially  to  Charlotte 
Maeck,  President  of  Pacific  Heights  Residents  Association,  who  spear¬ 
headed  this  Zoning  Advisory  Task  Force. 

In  addition,  this  past  year  THD  has  actively  supported  Cole  Valley 
Improvement  Association  in  its  fight  to  keep  a  drive-in  restaurant  from 
being  established  in  the  already  overcrowded  Haight- Ashbury  neighbor¬ 
hood  commercial  district.  Our  joint  concerns  with  North  Beach  Neigh¬ 
bors,  Russian  Hill  Neighbors  and  Russian  Hill  Improvement  Association 
on  Fisherman’s  Wharf  matters  are  ongoing. 

We  continue  to  work  with  these  and  other  organizations  opposed  to  a 
65-foot  garage  across  from  Central  Police  Station  on  Vallejo  Street.  All 
this  is  not  to  say  everything’s  perfectly  copacetic  around  these  hillsides, 
but  in  the  future  we  will  be  able  to  count  on  fellow  neighborhood 
organizations  more  than  in  past  years  for  their  support  on  parochial  THD 
issues. 


President's 

Letter 

Continued  from  page  3 


During  the  year  ending  March  31,  we  will  have  added  many  new 
members  to  reach  an  all-time  record  roll  of  more  than  800,  and  we  are 
hoping  to  expand  our  geographic  boundaries  a  tad  to  include  the 
embarcadero  in  our  40th  anniversary  year.  It  may  be  the  Year  of  the  Dog 
in  Chinatown,  the  year  of  the  “Vette”  in  Lillehammer,  but  on  Telegraph 
Hill  it  will  be  the  year  of  the  Tree,  one  planted  for  each  candle  on  our  cake! 

Finally,  on  behalf  of  the  membership  I  would  like  to  extend  our  thanks 
and  appreciation  to  outgoing  Directors  Jim  Miller  for  four  years  of 
conscientious  support,  Jerry  Hurtado  who  re-energized  the  Parking  & 
Traffic  Committee  and  Rita  Buchfmck  who  will  be  retiring  from  the 
thankless  jobof  Treasurer.  We  also  owe  a  special  debt  of  gratitude  to  long¬ 
time  THDer  in  good  standing,  our  recently  retired  Semaphore  Business 
Manager  of  more  than  a  dozen  years,  Eric  Johnson. 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  8 


"Time  Passes, 
Time 

The  Consoler, 
Time 

The  Anodyne" 

by  Helen  von  Ammon 


The  Thackeray  quotation  comes  to  mind  in  observing  the  majes¬ 
tic  beauty  of  the  street  clock  at  450  Columbus  Avenue.  This  noble 
time  piece  was  installed  a  couple  of  blocks  from  its  present  location 
in  1908  by  R.  Matteucci  &  Co.  “fine  jewelry  est.  1886.  ”  A  half  hour 
after  Mr.  Matteucci  died,  the  clock  stopped.  Matteo  Ciuffreda,  watchmaker  for 
Mr.  Matteucci,  repeatedly  examined  and  cleaned  the  clock,  pushed  the  pendu¬ 
lum.  Nothing  was  wrong;  it  just  wouldn’t  keep  time.  Eleven  days  later,  Ciuffreda 
once  again  examined  the  recalcitrant  clock.  Completely  frustrated,  he  kicked  it. 
Since  then  it  has  run  beautifully.  It  tolerates  senseless  graffiti,  and  bears  with 
stoic  dignity  injuries  by  vandals.  The  worst  damage  was  caused  by  someone  who 
evidently  was  intent  on  killing  time.  This  cretin  shot  the  clock  through  the  face. 
Once  again,  Mr.  Ciuffreda,  repaired  it  and  made  new  working  parts. 

A  stable  enhancement  to  North  Beach,  the  clock  is  revered  and  enjoyed  by 
many.  It  stands  25  feet  tall,  with  a  dial  diameter  of  four  feet,  manufactured  by 
Seth  Thomas  in  Connecticut.  A  duplicate  of  the  Matteucci  street  clock  has  been 
donated  to  the  beautiful  clock  museum  near  Philadelphia. 

Matteo  Ciuffreda,  watchmaker,  gemologist  and  present  owner  of  R.  Matteucci 
&  Co.,  came  to  the  United  States  from  Foggia,  Italy,  located  across  the  Apennine 
mountain  range  from  Rome.  His  entire  family  is  still  in  the  jewelry  business,  and 
as  a  child  in  Italy  he  made  rings  for  his  father’s  store.  Biannually,  he  returns  to 
Italy  where  his  many  relatives  provide  some  of  the  merchandise  for  his  store.  If 
he  needs  another  reason  to  go  to  Italy,  Valenza  Po,  on  the  Po  River,  is  one  of  the 
biggest  jewelry  manufacturing  sources  in  the  world,  specializing  in  gold. 

But  it’s  not  necessary  to  travel  to  Europe  for  jewelry.  In  March,  the  Moscone 
Center  in  San  Francisco  hosts  a  huge  jewelry  show,  and  there’ s  another  important 
show  in  Los  Angeles  each  August.  To  become  a  complete  “jeweler,”  three  times 
more  study  is  required  than  to  become  a  doctor.  There  are  about  15  branches 
within  the  jewelry  business.  There  is  jewelry  design,  manufacturing  and  engrav¬ 
ing.  Diamond  branches  include  grader,  cutter,  setter.  Watchmaker  includes  dial 
maker,  glass  cutter,  watch  and  case  repair,  watch  parts  seller.  As  a  watchmaker 
Mr.C  keeps  boxes  of  cannibalized  parts,  invaluable  for  repairing  timepieces, 
saving  the  time  necessary  to  make  new  parts. 

With  unlimited  credit  and  vast  resources,  Mr.  C  can  get  any  jewelry  your  little 
heart  desires.  His  phone  call  or  letter  will  find  that  20  carat,  canary  yellow 
diamond  you  lust  for.  Within  a  few  days  it  will  be  sent  safely  through  the  U.S. 
Post  Office,  on  consignment. 

As  someone  said,  diamonds  are  the  most  concentrated  form  of  wealth.  And 
everyone  knows  that  diamonds  are  a  girl’s  best  friend.  How  about  a  pink 
diamond  -  extremely  rare  until  they  were  newly  found  in  Australia.  Blue,  green 
and  cognac  diamonds  are  also  beautiful.  But  be  forewarned  that  diamonds  can 
be  artificially  colored  by  irradiation,  greatly  diminishing  their  value.  So  before 
you  spring  for  that  20  carat,  canary,  emerald  cut  diamond,  let  the  Gemological 
Institute  of  America  (GIA)  of  Santa  Monica,  California  check  it  out  for  color, 
clarity  and  carat  weight.  People  are  often  confused  about  gold,  14  karat  versus 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  9 


18  karat,the  latter  being  most  popular  in  Europe.  Gold  of  14k.  is  harder,  longer 
wearing  and  less  expensive  than  18k.  A  decorative  pin  receives  little  wear  so  it’s 
often  made  in  18k.,  perceived  by  many  as  more  prestigious.  Mr.  Ciuffreda 
adamantly  believes  that  gold  rings  should  be  made  of  14k. 

It’s  an  interesting  fact  that  all  wristwatch  insides  are  made  by  ETA,  of 
Neuchatel,  Switzerland.  When  you  pop  $15,000  for  an  elegant  watch  its  guts  have 
been  made  by  ETA.  The  store  has  simply  added  its  classy  name  to  the  watch  face. 
Mr.  Ciuffreda  formerly  had  the  exclusive  Omega  franchise  for  this  area.  Later  he, 
too,  purchased  ETA  watches,  adding  his  own  brand  name  to  the  face.  He  priced 
them  at  a  fraction  of  hyperbolically  advertised  brands  and  included  a  three-year 
guarantee.  The  venture  was  unsuccessful;  he  still  has  some  of  these  watches.  The 
public  remains  mesmerized  in  its  fixation  of  name  recognition  and  glossy,  costly 
advertising. 

This  small,  charming  store  is  very  popular.  Customers  trust  Mr.  Ciuffreda  and 
Arline,  his  gemologist  daughter.  While  awaiting  his  undivided  attention,  look  at 
the  antique  clocks  and  watches  displayed  in  a  case  against  the  wall.  Timepieces 
from  Switzerland,  France,  Germany,  Italy,  Austria  and  the  United  States 
are  represented.  Interesting,  unusual,  beautiful,  some  are  extremely 
rare.  Clocks  are  Matteo’s  passion  and  these  represent  a  small  portion 
of  his  vast  personal  collection. 

The  first  wheel  clock  is  believed  to  date  from  the  6th  century.  About  the  14th 
century,  Di  Dondi,  an  Italian  engineer,  designed  an  incredible  clock;  it  marked 
not  only  time,  but  the  revolution  of  the  planets.  The  pendulum  clock  is  attributed 
to  Christiaan  Huygens,  a  17th  century  Dutch  mathematician  and  physicist. 

Now  over  70,  Mr.  Ciuffreda  is  energetic  and  articulate  with  no  plans  to  retire. 
Books,  newsletters  and  memberships  keep  him  informed,  interested  and  up-to- 
date  on  the  jewelry  business.  His  knowledge  about  timepieces  is  awesome  and 
infectious.  If  you  would  like  to  know  more  about  clocks  he  recommends  that  you 
begin  by  looking,  reading  and  talking  time.  As  Shakespeare  said,  “The  clock 
upbraids  me  with  the  waste  of  time.” 


ARTICLE  II  -  Boundaries  Commencing  at  the  SE  corner  of  Bay  and  Powell  Streets,  thence 
southerly  along  Powell  Street  to  Columbus  Avenue,  thence  southeasterly  along  Columbus  Avenue  to 
Broadway,  thence  easterly  along  Broadway  to  the  Embarcadero,  thence  northerly  and  westerly  along 
the  Embarcadero  to  Powell  Street  and  southerly  to  the  point  of  beginning. 

ARTICLE  VI  -  Duties  of  Officers 

Vice  President  The  vice  president  shall:  Perform  the  duties  of  the  president  in  the  absence  or 
incapacity  of  that  officer;  serve  as  parliamentarian;  be  an  ex-officio  member  of  all  committees  except 
the  nominating  committee;  and  assist  the  president  in  any  other  duties  as  may  be  assigned. . . 

Corresponding  Secretary  The  corresponding  secretary  shall:.  . .  keep  copies  of  all  letters 
written;  transfer  to  the  historian  the  files  of  all  correspondence  not  pertaining  to  the  current  business 
of  the  organization;  be  chairman  of  the  program  committee;  inform  the  president,  board  members, 
and  committee  chairmen  of  important  public  meetings.  .  . 

ARTICLE  VII  -  Committees  Section  1.  Budget,  Membership,  and  Semaphore  shall  be  standing 
committees  chaired  by  officers,  pursuant  to  ARTICLE  VI.  Social  and  Program,  Planning  and 
Zoning,  Parking  and  Traffic,  Parks  and  Trees,  and  Waterfront  shall  be  standing  committees  chaired 
by  members  in  good  standing. 

ARTICLE  X  -  Miscellaneous  Section  2.  This  organization  shall  not  endorse  candidates  for 
political  office  nor  become  affiliated  with  any  political  party,  nor  shall  this  organization  provide  a 
forum  for  any  person  seeking  elected  office.  Guest  speakers  at  meetings  must  be  specifically 
authorized  by  the  president  and  approved  by  the  board  of  directors. .  . 


Changes  to 
Bylaws... 

Continued  from  pages 


Washington  Square 

Bar^Grill. 

Ss 

■ 

rX  — 

Open  daily  for  Lunch  &  Dinner 

1707  Powell  St.  982-8123 

Um 

i  N 

<Pakicia  <D.  JZorenljeTi 


administrative  Consultant 


435  Green  Street  no.  a 

SAN  FRANCISCO.  CALIFORNIA  94133 

(415)  781-0456 


CM 

RESTAURANT  -  BAR 

9  f>.N*  'til  6  (Uf/U 


1031  Kearny  4  3  4-1308 


SPIT-ROASTED  CHICKENS 
DINING  -  TAKE  OUT  -  HOME  DELIVERY 


659  Union  Street,  S.F.  434-4472 
590  E.BIithedale,  Mill  Valley  (415)  383-6040 


CoitJILiquor 

the  wine  a  spirits  experts 


HEARTLAND  FUNDS 


STEPHEN  Y.  HORD 
INVESTMENT  COUNSELOR 


(415)  781-1 1 1 7  CALIFORNIA  SECURITIES  CORP. 

1-800-443-0884  50  ALTA  STREET 

(415)  391-5039  FAX  SAN  FRANCISCO.  CA  94133 


HEARTLAND  VALUE  FUND  (NO  LOAD) 

1991  TOTAL  RETURN  +  49.35% 

1992  TOTAL  RETURN  +  42.48% 

1 993  TO  FEB  94  +24.9% 


On  Washington  Square 

5  8  5  Columbus  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA  94133 
Fax  415/296-7825 
Telephone  415/986-4036 
1-800-2  5  5-COIT 


REAL  ESTATE  SERVICES 

1 823  Union  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94 1 23 
Office  (415)  922-7100 
Residence  (415)  563-2555 

Voice  Mail  (415)  922-7107  X  386  GARDNER  W.  MEIN 


FOX  &  Better 

CARSKADON  lf**H9.ffi£§* 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  11 


Members  of  our  area's  writers  colony  autograph  their  books  at  the  THD  reception  at  Enrico's  -  Photo  <S>  1994  C.  Farruggia 


The  THD  again  celebrated  Christmas  thanks  to  the  generosity  of  Julius’ 
Castle  which  hosted  our  our  holiday  party  with  a  view  for  new  and  old  members. 

We  started  something  new  with  a  North  Beach  Writers’  Reception  organized 
by  Billie  Atlas  at  Enrico’s  in  February.  Members  got  a  chance  to  meet  with  a 
good  cross  section  of  the  authors  who  call  the  hill  home.  We  hope  to  do  it  again. 

Our  logo,  updated  by  artist  and  THD  member  Herb  Kosovitz,  will  be  the 
central  focus  on  a  forest  green  background  on  both  the  THD  T-shirt  and 
sweatshirt. 


Show  your  THD 
COLORS, 

Buy  a  T-Shirt 
or  a  Sweatshirt! 


Your  new  shirt  will  come  in  handy  for  our  second  annual  “Tower  to  Town”  By  Jarilyn  Cerruti 
walk  and  the  yearly  picnic  at  Coit  Tower  (if  you  decide  not  to  wear  it  to  the 
Christmas  party!). 

Upcoming  activities  on  the  social  agenda  include  a  new  member  cocktail 
party  on  March  13,  the  general  membership  election  meeting  and  dinner  with  the 
Mayor  at  Castagnola’s  on  April  1 1 ,  and  the  second  annual  “Tower  to  Town”  walk 
in  May.  Call  me  at  421-3820  if  you  would  like  to  help  with  the  planning  of  these 
events. 

YES...  I  Want  To  Be  A  Sweat  Shirt  Fashion  Plate 


TO:  Telegraph  Hill  Dwellers 
Box  330159,  San  Francisco,  CA  94133 
Please  allow  6  weeks  &  add  $3  each  for  delivery 

Name _ 

Address _ 

Phone 

T-SHIRTS  $10  each  SWEATSHIRTS  $20  each 

Circle  Size:  M  L  XL  Circle  Size:  M  L  XL 

Quantity _  Amt  $ _  Quantity _ Amt  $ _ 

Here  is  my  check  $ _ including  $3.00  each  for  delivery. 


1 


J 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  12 


Parking 
on  the  Hill 

by  Gerald  Hurtado 


The  THD  Parking  &  Transportation  Committee  has  been 
/  meeting  over  the  last  several  months.  Representa- 
'  tives  from  the  North  Beach  Neighbors,  Russian  Hill 
Neighbors  and  the  North  Beach  Chamber  of  Com¬ 
merce  have  been  attending  as  well  as  officials  from 
the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  (DPT). 


In  keeping  with  THD’s  policy  of  patronizing  local  merchants,  our 
recent  meetings  have  been  held  at  the  Caffe  Roma  Roastery,  the  Caffe 
Europa  and  the  North  End  Caffe’. 


Concerns  expressed  at  these  well  attended  meetings  were  wide  rang¬ 
ing,  as  could  be  expected  from  people  living  and  doing 
business  in  this  densely  populated  community.  In¬ 
deed,  North  Beach’s  unique  traffic,  parking  and 
general  congestion  problems  parallel  those  of 
Manhattan,  N.Y.,  more  so  than  the  rest  of  San 
Francisco’s  neighborhoods. 


Bond  Yee,  City  Traffic  Engineer  from  DPT,  explained  to  those  present 
at  one  meeting  the  steps  normally  taken  when  parking  changes  are 
recommended: 


Starting  with  a  DPT  internal  staff  review  and  approval,  recommended 
changes  must  go  to  the  Interdepartmental  Staff  Committee  on  Traffic  and 
Transportation  (ISCOTT)  for  review,  then  to  the  Parking  and  Traffic 
Commission  and  finally  to  the  Board  of  Supervisors.  After  Board 
approval,  the  legislation  is  signed  into  law  by  the  Mayor. 

Yee  noted  that  the  entire  process  can  take  anytime  between  two  to  six 
months.  He  felt  it  advisable  to  have  neighborhood  consensus  before 
items  get  to  the  ISCOTT  process  to  ensure  smooth  sailing. 

Announcing  changes  that  may  impact  the  neighborhood:- 

DPT  is  in  the  process  of  re-evaluating  apartment  building  white  zones 
in  a  concerted  effort  to  reclaim  general  parking  spaces.  The  current 
guidelines  call  for  a  minimum  of  50  units  to  qualify  for  a  white  zone. 
Many  buildings  with  fewer  units  were  grandfathered  in  from  years  ago. 

The  Department  of  Public  Works  will  reconstruct  the  1000  block  of 
Lombard  Street  (crooked  street)  early  next  year.  The  construction  period 
will  be  about  90  days.  Parking  and  access  for  residents  on 
that  street  and  abutting  alleys  will  be  seriously  im¬ 
pacted;  the  street  must  be  closed  to  traffic  while  it  is 
being  reconstructed.  DPT  will  be  working  with 
residents  to  look  for  ways  to  mitigate  this  temporary 
loss  of  parking. 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  13 


DPT  is  studying  parking  conditions  in  the  southerly  section 
of  Area  “A”.  They  have  found  a  parking  occupancy  rate  of 
1 17%.  The  survey  is  being  done  to  consider  the  possibility  of 
subdividing  Area  “A”  into  two  smaller  areas. 


Finally,  DPT  will  be  beefing  up  parking  enforcement  efforts  on  Friday 
evenings  as  well  as  on  Saturdays  and  Sundays,  when  many  forms  of  illegal 
parking  occur. 


The  North  Beach  Garage  Proposal  is  on  hold. 


Interested  THD  members  are  urged  to  attend  the 
Parking  and  Traffic  Committee  meetings.  We 
meet  at  local  coffee  houses  for  one  hour  the  first 
Saturday  of  each  month  at  10  AM. 

Committee  participants: 

Joe  Butler,  Peter  Buxton,  Jack  Early,  Jim  Faircloth, 

J.  Lowell  Groves,  Tom  Havey,  Jerry  Hurtado,  Nancy 
Katz,  Don  Kitson,  Herb  Kosovitz,  Lesla  Lehtonen, 

Jeanmarie  Maher,  Ann  &  George  Nielson,  Gail  &  Paul 
Switzer,  Hanna  Suleiman,  Barbara  Szerlip,  Reg  & 

Roberta  Theriault,  Bob  Tibbits  and  Bill  Varcoe. 


You  Can 
Improve  the 
Parking  Scene 


The  planting  of  40  street  trees  to  commemorate  Telegraph  Hill 
Dwellers’  40th  year  will  begin  with  a  inaugural  ceremony  in  early  April 
replacing  the  Silvio  Catelli  memorial  tree  on  the  west  side  of  Mongomery 
Street  near  the  comer  of  Union  (“History  on  the  Hill”  Semaphore,  December 
1993).  The  next  39  will  be  planted  by  THD  volunteers  with  the  able 
assistance  of  Friends  of  the  Urban  Forest,  affectionally  referred  to  as 
“FUF\ 

An  organizational  meeting  for  the  THD  Anniversary  Tree 
Campaign  (“ATC”)  committee  will  be  held  at  Bob  Tibbits’  home,  386 
Chestnut  Street,  on  Wednesday,  April  6th  starting  at  7:15  PM  (call  986- 
2622  days  or  986-7227  evenings  if  you  would  like  to  join  the  committee). 
Volunteers  attending  this  kick-off  session  will  receive  handbooks,  maps 
and  computer  lists  to  canvass  likely  neighborhood  property  owners  and 
identify  planting  sites.. 

According  to  FUF,  each  tree  will  cost  about  $250,  which  works 
out  to  $10,000  for  the  entire  ATC  planting  program.  Some  grant  funds 
have  already  been  applied  for  by  FUF  in  behalf  of  THD.  Donations  will 
bbe  accepted,  and  donors  will  be  honored  with  a  commemorative 
citation. 


THD  Will  Plant 
A  Tree  for  Each 
of  its  40  Years 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  14 


Walking  the 
Historic  District 

by  Joe  Luttrell, 

Hill  Dwellers’  Historian 


©  1993  Rita  Buchfinck 


Shall  we  rendezvous  at  Speedy’s  (comer  of  Union  and  Montgomery) 
to  begin  our  self-guided  walking  tour  of  the  Telegraph  Hill  Historic 
District?  By  the  time  we  finish,  we  will  have  traversed  some  ten  city 
blocks  and  seen  just  about  all  of  the  Historic  District’s  100  buildings. 

We  can  start  inside  Speedy’s  itself,  once  owned  and  operated  by 
the  Spediacci  family  from  which  it  takes  its  name.  It  is  now  the  District’s 
only  commercial  business,  and  has  been  owned  by  Art  and  Marshall  Dong 
since  1978.  If  you  look  to  the  right  as  you  enter,  behind  the  meat  counter, 
you’ll  see  the  photograph  of  the  store  circa  1926,  Mrs.  Spediacci  on  the 
left  with  her  eldest  daughter,  Mary,  just  visibly  pregnant,  on  the  right. 

As  you  exit  Speedy’s,  take  a  closer  look  at  the  nondescript 
building  directly  across  the  street,  at  1301  Montgomery.  Hidden  under 
its  now  light  gray-blue  painted  plaster  is  the  only  brick  building  left  in  the 
District.  Dating  to  1853,  it  is  possibly  the  oldest  such  extant  in  the  City, 
and  perhaps  the  District’s  oldest  structure  of  any  kind. 

Now  turn  right,  staying  on  Union  as  you  cross  Montgomery 
towards  the  Bay.  If  you  look  to  your  right  on  Montgomery  as  you  cross, 
you’ll  find  the  Transamerica  Pyramid  serving  as  a  vivid  backdrop  to  the 
hill’s  crest,  an  oft-used  setting  for  fashion  model  Sunday-supp  ads.  The 
crest  marks  the  District’s  highest  spot,  218  feet  above  sea  level,  second 
in  height  only  to  Coit  Tower  itself,  which  lies  just  outside  the  District’s 
boundaries. 

Walk  down  the  one  remaining  block  of  Union,  taking  a  right  on 
upper  Calhoun  Terrace.  Nine  Calhoun  is  the  only  old  structure  now 
remaining  on  either  terrace,  but  it  is  a  good  one,  the  third  known  in  the 
District,  built  in  1854.  If  you  stand  in  front  of  its  garage,  you  can  make 
out  what  seems  to  be  a  series  of  additions  and  extensions  to  the  house,  all 
accessible  from  a  long  balustraded  porch. 

With  your  back  to  the  garage,  and  with  a  marvelous  downtown 
view  on  your  right,  look  down  upon  the  lower  Terrace,  where  you  will  see 
the  Hoeffler  apartments  (the  telltale  “portholes”  in  the  front  facade).  You 
may  have  to  move  a  bit  to  your  right  to  detect  the  “cascading”  of  the 
apartments  down  the  bluff  towards  Sansome.  To  the  apartments’  left, 
separated  by  a  one  story  garage,  is  the  Richard  Neutra  designed  home 
which,  with  the  apartments,  offer  some  of  the  best  architecture  which 
came  into  the  District  in  the  1930’s. 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  15 


Making  your  way  back  towards  Union  Street,  you  may  wish  to 
turn  right,  downhill  past  the  stone  wall  at  the  street’ s  bottom,  to  enjoy  the 
view  from  a  lovely,  privately  maintained  garden,  a  feature  found  else¬ 
where  in  the  District,  as  we  shall  see;  the  “Icehouse”  is  directly  below  you. 

As  you  retrace  your  steps  back  up  Union  Street,  note  to  your  left 
the  lovely,  three  story  Cooney  House  at  291.  It  does  battle  with 
our  unprepossessing  brick  building  at  1301  Montgomery  as  the 
District’s  oldest  structure,  the  deed  for  the  lot  dated  August  2, 
1850  (the  wood  for  the  home’s  construction  accompanied  the 
Cooneys  from  Australia,  and  they  are  said  to  have  lived  in  a  tent  on  the 
lot  during  construction  to  prevent  its  theft).  We  have  now  seen,  within 
slightly  more  than  a  block  of  one  another,  the  District’s  three  oldest 
dwellings;  22  others  may  be  dated  prior  to  1870,  making  up  the  largest 
group  of  such  structures  in  the  City. 

(To  be  completed  in  the  June  issue)  

Apparently  the  L.A.  earthquake  was  a  wakeup  call  for  nervous  San 
Franciscans  —  all  N.E.R.T.  classes  are  booked  solid  between  now  and 
June,  including  two  scheduled  for  our  area,  at  Ft.  Mason. 

The  events  in  Northridge  that  we  witnessed  on  our  TV  screens  could 
very  well  be  repeated  in  San  Francisco,  underscoring  the  need  for 
neighborhood  preparedness. 

That’s  where  N.E.R.T.  comes  in  —  Neighborhood  Emergency  Re¬ 
sponse  Teams.  N.E.R.T.  training  prepares  participants  to  weather  the  first 
72  hours  of  a  catastrophe  like  an  earthquake,  when  the  City’s  emergency 
forces  will  be  stretched  thin,  dealing  with  the  most  severe  problems. 

If  we  have  enough  volunteers  in  our  neighborhood,  the  Fire  Department 
will  schedule  a  N.E.R.T.  training  session  especially  for  us.  Call  June 
Fraps,  392-1187,  to  sign  up  for  the  training,  before  April  1. 

N.E.R.T.  training,  five  three  hour  sessions  including  a  hands-on 
exercise,  is  provided  by  the  San  Francisco  Fire  Department  and  costs  $25. 


When 
Northridge 
Comes  to 
North  Beach 


by  June  Fraps 


Telegraph  Hill  Crime  Report 

NOV. -JAN. NOV. -JAN. 


TYPE 

1992-3 

1993-4 

%  CHANGE 

Homocide 

0 

0 

Rape 

1 

1 

Robbery 

8 

14 

Assault 

26 

20 

Burglary 

22 

43 

Theft 

65 

68 

Auto 

38 

46 

Other 

125 

102 

TOTAL 

285 

294 

3.16% 

MAJOR* 

160 

192 

20.00% 

'Homicide,  Rape,  Robbery,  Assault, Burglary, 
Grand/Petty  Theft,  AutoTheft,  Purse  Snatch 


A  grateful  farewell  to  Kitty 
Donnelly  who  has  resigned  as  Co¬ 
chair  of  the  Central  Station  Police 
Community  Relations  Steering 
Committee.  During  the  past  three 
years,  Kitty’s  dedication  and  con¬ 
tributions  to  our  program  has  made 
it  one  of  the  most  successful  in  the 
city.  We  shall  miss  her. 


Crime  Notes 


by  Pat  Lorentzen 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  16 


THD 

Committees 
Need  You 

You  can  make  a  difference! 
Join  one  of  THD's  committees 
and  work  with  your  fellow 
Hill  Dwellers  to  improve 
life  on  the  Hill. 

Call  the  chairperson  now! 


Membership 

Report 

by  Bob  Ilse 

The  fall  membership  drive  put  THD 
over  the  top  with  800  active  members. 
Like  to  organize  and  plan  social  events? 
Give  Jarilyn  Cerruti  a  call.  Tricia 
Brown  has  a  number  of  opportunities 
for  school  classroom  volunteers.  Check 
out  the  committees,  and  give  the  chair¬ 
person  a  call. 

There  will  be  a  cocktail  party  for 
perspective  new  members  in  the  spring. 
We  are  going  to  offer  prizes  for  those 
who  can  sign  up  new  members  at  this 
function.  See  you  in  the  Spring! 


SPECIAL  COMMITTEES 

Crime  Prevention 

Pat  Lorentzen  781-0456 

Organizes  S.A.F.E.  neighborhood  watch 
groups  and  works  with  Police  Department 
on  local  crime  problems.  Participates  in 
Police  Community  Relations  Committee. 

Garfield  School/Francisco  Middle 
School  Liaison 

Tricia  Brown  433-1827 

Coordinates  volunteers  to  assist  in  class¬ 
rooms  and  with  school  projects. 

Hill’s  Angels 

Mia  Morrill  982-4850 

Getting  families  together  for  fun  with 
their  children  and  to  work  on  projects  to 
improve  ourenvironment  on  Telegraph  Hill. 

Housing 

Wells  Whitney  398-5077 

Preparing  a  study  of  housing  issues  to 
assist  Board  in  the  formulation  of  policy 
position  on  the  hill’s  housing  stock. 

Landmarks  and  History 

Joe  Luttrell  255-6400 

Conducts  walking  tours  that  highlight 
Telegraph  Hill’s  colorful  past  and  historic 
buildings. 

Library 

Maud  Hallin  781-3761 

Works  with  North  Beach  Branch  Library 
(Gardiner  Haskell,  Librarian)  and  represents 
THD  on  neighborhood  council. 

Neighborhood  Improvement 

Dawne  Bernhardt  399-1004  Peter 
Manolakos  399-9720 

Deals  with  graffiti,  litter  and  illegal  dump¬ 
ing  on  the  Hill;  works  with  Clean  City  Coa¬ 
lition  on  periodic  neighborhood  sweep-ups. 

N.E.R.T. 

June  Fraps  392-1187 

Energizes  members  to  take  emergency 
disaster  response  training  program  spon¬ 
sored  by  the  City. 

Neighborhood  Liaison 

Sue  Cauthen  391-0737 

Represents  THD  on  League  of  Neigh¬ 
borhoods. 


Parking  and  Transportation 

Gerry  Hurtado  788-7723 

Represents  THD  residents  before  City 
agencies  on  parking,  traffic  control,  curb 
markings  and  MUNI  service,  cooperating 
with  other  neighborhood  groups. 

Parks  and  Trees 

Volunteer  Needed 

Oversees  “greening  of  the  Hill”  to  enlist 
neighbors  in  tree  planting  projects,  working 
with  Friends  of  the  Urban  Forest 

Presidio/GGNRA 

Jordan  Rosenberg  788-5338 

Monitors  and  participates  in  planning 
for  transfer  of  Presidio  to  Golden  Gate  Na¬ 
tional  Recreation  Area. 

Planning  and  Zoning 

Jim  Valenti  398-0076 

Assists  neighbors  with  zoning  issues  and 
Discretionary  Reviews;  represents  THD 
positions  before  Planning  Commission  and 
works  with  developers  and  the  City  to  pro¬ 
tect  neighborhood  character. 

Waterfront/Embarcadero 

Rod  F  reebaim-Smith  Bob  Tibbits  986- 
2622  398-4094 

Monitors  DPW  activities  along  the 
Embarcadero  roadway  and  participates  in 

STANDING  COMMITTEES 

Budget 

Rita  Buchfinck  398-0432 

As  prescribed  in  By-Laws  for  Treasurer. 

Membership 
Bob  Ilse  291-0420 

As  prescribed  in  By-Laws  for  Financial  Sec¬ 
retary 

Program 

Jarilyn  Cerruti  421-3820 

Arranges  social  events,  including  quarterly 
membership  meetings  and  get-acquainted 
social  functions;  organizes  annual  picnic. 

Semaphore 

Clyde  Steiner  398-8093 

Quarterly  publication  covering  events  and 
issues  important  to  the  Hill  Dwellers 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  17 


When  the  cookbook  committee  was  collecting  these  recipes  they  asked  for 
food-related  hill  history  or  funny  comments  about  food.  Since  this  recipe  uses 
on  garlic,  I  thought  you  would  enjoy  Helen  von  Ammon’s  comment  on  garlic. 
“In  my  travels  throughout  the  world  I  have  taken  elaborate  measures  to  avoid 
garlic.  Not  only  do  I  thoroughly  dislike  the  taste  and  smell,  more  to  the  point.. 
I  am  allergic  to  it  in  any  form.  I  have  3x5  cards  printed  in  the  language  of  each 
country  I  visit  which  state  this  infirmity.  Before  ordering  food  in  any  restaurant 
abroad,  first  I  briefly  state  my  problem,  then  whip  out  my  card  in  the  native 
language  to  ensure  that  I  am  understood.  Usually  the  waiter  looks  at  me  with 
pity  and  sympathy  that  I  am  so  deprived,  and  I  enjoy  a  meal  without  repercus¬ 
sions.  On  one  occasion,  however,  the  waiter’s  reply  was  memorable.  He  said 
soulfully,  ‘Ah,  Signora,  sensa  aglio  non  e  pasto,’  (Madame,  without  garlic  it  is 
not  a  meal!) 


The 

Stinking  Rose? 

by  Rozell  Overmire 


Peppers  &  Anchovies  Appetizer 

This  dish  can  be  made  with  any  kind  of  sweet  peppers:  red,  yellow,  or  green,  ora  combination  of  them 
all.  However,  we  like  it  best  with  sweet  red  peppers.  (Good  forpicnics  or  lunch  while  skiing.  Itsupplies 
the  salt  you  lose  in  active  hiking  or  skiing.) 

4  medium-sized  red  peppers 
1  can  flat  anchovies 
olive  oil,  about  1  1/2  cup 
salt,  pepper,  oregano,  garlic  cloves 


Peel  the  peppers  by  placing  them  under  the  broiler  until  the  skin  gets  blistered  and  slightly  charred, 
and  then  stripping  off  the  skin  while  they  are  still  warm.  Remove  the  core  and  seeds,  cut  into  strips  about 
one-inch  wide,  and  remove  any  white  fibrous  stuff  that  remains.  Dry  the  peppers  on  paper  towels,  or 
a  clean  cloth. 


Place  a  layer  of  peppers  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish  (you  can  make  it  in  the  plastic  container  you  plan  to 
carry  it  in).  Mash  the  garlic  cloves  with  the  flat  of  a  knife,  and  add  one  to  the  peppers.  Place  two 
anchovies  crosswise  over  the  pepper  and  garlic,  add  a  quick  pinch  of  salt,  a  twist  of  pepper  mill  and  a 
pinch  of  oregano.  Repeat  the  layers  until  everything  is  used  up. 


Pour  the  olive  oil  over  all,  so  that  it  just  covers  the  top  layer  completely.  Refrigerate  overnight  if 
possible,  otherwise  for  about  four  hours.  Remove  the  garlic  cloves,  drain  off  the  olive  oil  and  save  it 
for  salads.  Serve  with  French  bread  or  Swedish  crackers.  THD  RECIPE  CARD 


Peppers 

& 

Anchovies 

Appetizer 

by  Lori  O’Malley 


Dust  Off  Your  Helmets  for  a  Citywide  NERT  Drill  April  16 

Telegraph  Hill-North  Beach  NERTs  will  gather  April  16  at  one  of  the 
local  neighborhood  staging  areas  (Francisco  Middle  School  North  Beach 
Playground),  to  participate  in  a  city  wide  drill  with  the  Office  of  Emer¬ 
gency  Services. 

The  drill,  scheduled  for  10  a.m.,  is  still  in  the  planning  stages,  but  will 
include  a  test  of  ham  radio  communications,  which  will  be  essential  in 
dealing  with  a  major  catastrophe  like  an  earthquake. 


Attention 

NERTs 

We  Drill  April  16 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  18 


Kid  Stuff 


Five  year  old  Jenny  said  she  REALLY  needs  a  playroom.  Could  she 
PLEASE  have  her  own  bathroom,  too?  She  went  on  to  explain  to  me  how 
we  could  build  these  two  rooms  in  our  existing  home.  Jenny  is  not  familiar 
with  our  city  building  codes.  I  suggested  we  might  move  into  the  suburbs 
where  the  homes  are  bigger,  but  before  I  could  even  finish  my  sentence, 
big  brother  Eric  shouted,  ‘Wo,  no!  We  won’t  go!”  Perceiving  that  this 
might  be  an  issue  of  kids  versus  parents,  Jenny  was  quick  to  side  with  her 
brother.  Thus  Eric,  the  acknowledged  boss  in  these  matters,  settled  the 
matter. 


by  Mia  Morrill 


City  by  the  Bay 


I  do  have  friends  who  live  in  spacious  homes  on  expansive 
properties.  It  does  look  a  pretty  attractive  way  to  live.  But  I 
like  that  we  are  all  under  each  others  noses  when  we  are 
home.  We  certainly  know  each  other.  I  like  to  think  we  are 
undereach  others’  tutelage.  Anyway,  growing  up  in  a  small 
house  with  four  siblings  prepared  me  for  this.  And  there  is 
always  a  way  to  find  privacy  if  any  of  us  want  it.  No,  I  wouldn’t 
exchange  my  home  for  a  suburban  sprawl. 

The  other  thing  we  have  that  our  suburban  friends  don’t 
is  the  hill  and  the  beach.  We  all  enjoy  a  hike  to  Coit  Tower 
with  dog  Georgia  (and  yes,  we  do  use  plastic  bags  to  keep 
the  paths  clean  and  the  air  fresh.  Don’t  you  wish  all  dog 
owners  did,  but  that  is  a  whole  other  article).  We  love  our 
shops,  coffee  houses,  bakeries  and  restaurants,  We  use 
the  parks  and  playgrounds.  The  barking  sea  lions  and 
bellowing  fog  horns  are  our  lullabies  at  night. 


Etc., etc.  You  know  it  yourselves.  Perhaps  you 
also  know  that  our  library  and  pool  are  under  what 
seems  a  constant  and  imminent  danger  of  closure, 
Not  too  long  ago  a  group  of  concerned  neighbors, 
including  one  very  well  spoken  nine  year  old,  went 
to  a  budget  meeting  of  the  Rec  and  Park  Board  to 
plead  for  the  life  of  our  pool,  If  any  of  you  out  there  would  like  to 
be  involved  in  this  sort  of  thing,  please  call  me.  We  all  need  to  help. 


Local  author  Tricia  Brown  will  talk  about  the 
process  of  making  her  San  Francisco  children’s 
book,  “City  By  The  Bay,”  on  Wednesday  evening, 
April  20th,  1994  7-8  PM  at  the  North  Beach 
Library  (Columbus  and  Mason). 


LOUIS  J.  SILCOX 


TELEGRAPH  HILL  DWELLER 
SINCE  1975 


Specialist  in  Telegraph  &  Russian  Hill  Properties 

1699  Van  Ness  Avenue 
San  Franciscom,  CA  94109 
(415)  474-1750 

Res:(415)  788-2008  Fax:(415)  771-1264 


The 

Italian 

Dining 

Experience 

in 

San  Francisco 


Valet  Parking  Banquet  up  to  200 
2  Stockton  Street  (415)392-1700 


FRESH! 

Homemade  Pasta  &  4-‘Am8w\ 

fish  from  the  e&M? 

Pacific 

Serving  continuously  from  11:45  to  1:45am  Grant  and  Vallejo  Streets  (415)  434-2248 


PROPERTY  MANAGEMENT  SERVICES 


Specializing  in  Smaller 
Office  Buildings  &  Homeowners  Assns. 

RPS  MANAGEMENT  CO. 
986-8140 


MARINA  ASSOCIATES 

A  Woman-owned  Real  Estate  and  Insurance  Brokerage 

Diana  Gaynor 

REALTOR  Associate 

Call  for  our  schedule  of  upcoming  Real  Estate  workshops 

1511  Clement  Street  San  Francisco,  CA  94 118 
415/221-4766x58 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  20 


The  Palateers 
Do  North  Beach 

by  Marsha  Garland 


About  five  years  ago,  the  North  Beach  Chamber  of  Commerce  created  a 
dining  group  called  The  Palateers.  Don’t  run  to  your  Funk  &  Wagnall’s  for 
an  explanation.  “Palateers”  is  a  made-up  word,  a  whimsical  combination  of 
“palate”  and  “musketeer”.  The  Palateers  even  have  a  motto,  unashamedly 
gluttonous  and  based  on  Dumas’  Musketeers’  very  own  motto,  which  states 
“A  true  Palateer  should  always  be  ready  to  eat,  just  as  a  musketeer  should 
always  be  ready  to  fight!”. 

Every  month,  usually  on  a  Wednesday,  about  15-20  Palateers  get  together 
to  try  aNorth  Beach  restaurant.  They  don’tjudge  the  food  orrate  the  service. 
A  fixed  price  menu  with  perhaps  three  entree  choices  is  planned  ahead  of  time. 
No  membership  fee  is  charged.  The  Palateers  are  primarily  North  Beach 
residents  but  some  of  the  group  live  as  far  away  as  Los  Gatos.  Over  the  years, 
lasting  friendships  have  been  made  through  the  group  and  three  couples  even 
trooped  off  to  Thailand  together  on  a  vacation  tour. 

Over  the  years,  several  restaurants  have  emerged  as  the  group’s  favorites 
and  they  are: 

Alfred’s,  886  Broadway.  This  elegant,  traditional  Italian  steak  house  is  off 
the  beaten  path  but  well  worth  the  trek  up  to  the  Broadway  Tunnel.  Despite 
scientists'  gloom  and  doom  reports,  consumption  of  red  meat  is  on  the 
increase.  So  if  you’re  going  to  indulge  in  a  lip  smacking  steak,  go  to  Alfred’s 
where  superb,  mesquite  grilled  steaks  from  corn-fed  beef  are  served  in 
exquisite  surroundings.  The  lamb  entrees  are  delicious,  too. 

Brasserie  Tomo,  745  Columbus.  Japanese  owner  Tomo  Okuda  is  a 
classically  trained  French  chef  and  was  formerly  the  chef  for  the  Japanese 
Consulate.  Tomo’s  menu  is  understated  and  written  without  any  literary 
flourishes  to  tempt  the  palate.  Tome’s  final  presentation,  however,  is 
exceptional  culinary  artistry. 

Columbus  Restaurant,  611Broadway.  The  character  of  this  block  of 
Broadway  is  no  longer  international  like  it  once  was,  and  but  for  one  business 
is  solidly  part  of  Chinatown.  The  one  business  is  Marina  Ditano’s  Columbus 
Restaurant  known  to  many  as  the  restaurant  with  the  upside-down  sign.  And 
what  does  Marina  do  on  vacation?  She  flies  to  Italy  and  studies  with  Master 
Chef  Giuliano  Bugialli.  What  does  Marina  do  on  her  day  off?  She  sits  in 
Bradley  Ogden’s  kitchen.  Consequently,  the  notorious  and  outrageous 
Marina  Ditano  gets  better  and  better  as  a  chef.  Her  sauteed  calamari  can’t  be 
beat,  but  go  prepared  with  a  ravenous  appetite — large,  old  fashioned  portions 
are  the  order  of  the  day. 

Enrico’s,  504  Broadway.  Chef  Rick  Hackett  is  simply  a  star.  His  innova¬ 
tive  menu  is  always  tempting,  and,  after  two  years  of  new  operation,  Enrico’s 
just  seems  to  get  more  and  more  comfortable.  Changing  art  shows  of  high 
caliber,  outstanding  evening  jazz  and  a  sprinkling  of  interesting  special 
events  give  additional  reasons  to  return  to  this  highly  (and  rightfully) 
acclaimed  restaurant. 

Mo’s,  1322  Grant  Avenue.  Mo’s  has  always  been  a  bargain  of  quality 
and,  although  billed  as  a  gourmet  burger  restaurant,  the  menu  includes  some 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  21 


delightful,  non-beef  items  like  the  Thai-inspired  Mo’s  Breast  (chicken)  and 
the  Middle  Eastern  influenced  Pita  Chicken.  A  new  menu  promises  more 
excitement  with  the  addition  of  fajitas,  additional  vegetarian  items  and  a  lamb 
burger,  as  well  as  an  expanded  and  creative  list  of  hamburgers. 

The  Helmand.  This  Afghani  restaurant  at  430  Broadway  has  been  rated 
highly  by  many  reliable  sources  —  the  San  Francisco  Chronicle,  the  San 
Francisco  Examiner,  and  Gourmet  Magazine,  to  name  a  few.  Lots  of  people 
shy  away  from  “ethnic”  restaurants,  but  to  a  Westerner’s  palate  Afghani  food 
is  a  marvelous  blend  of  several  cuisines — Indian,  Turkish  and  Persian.  Don’t 
stay  away,  rush  to  this  reasonably  priced  favorite. 

Entree  des  Artistes,  1 624  Powell.  If  this  bistro  were  located  on  Columbus 
Avenue,  it  would  be  packed  all  the  time.  Hidden  away  on  Powell  Street,  this 
pretty  eatery  is  still  not  known  to  all  North  Beachers.  The  French  cafe-style 
food  prepared  by  master  Chef  Jacky  Robert  is  out  of  this  world. 

Campo  Santo,  240  Columbus.  Despite  the  fact  that  this  small  Mexican 
restaurant’s  original  owner/creator  has  moved  on,  the  restaurant  has  main¬ 
tained  an  excellent  kitchen  and  offers  lots  of  tempting,  unusual  recipes  from 
the  Yucatan  Peninsula.  Anyone  who  saw  “Like  Water  for  Chocolate”  will 
lovingly  indulge  themselves  at  this  colorful  place  with  a  decor  reminiscent  of 
Mexico’s  Day  of  the  Dead  celebration. 

L’Osteria  del  Fomo,  519  Columbus.  Owned  by  native  Italians  Wally 
Tettamanti  and  Susanna  Borgatti,  the  food  at  this  tiny  spot  is  genuinely  Italian. 
Baskets  of  homemade  focaccia  are  placed  on  the  tables  in  place  of  sourdough 
or  French  bread,  and  the  minute  your  basket  is  close  to  empty  another  takes  its 
place.  One  uniquely  Italian  recipe  found  here  is  Pork  Loin  Roasted  in  Milk. 
At  L’Osteria  del  Forno,  it’s  sliced  paper  thin  and  prepared  either  in  a  mouth 
watering  focaccia  sandwich  or  as  a  dinner  plate  with  cubes  of  potato  and  sweet 
potato  roasted  with  flavorful  rosemary. 

Gira  Polli,  659  Union.  It’s  been  quite  a  while  since  The  Palateers  went  to 
this  rosticceria  but  the  tasty  memory  certainly  lingers.  Gira  Polli’s  chickens 
are  roasted  in  a  one-of-a-kind  Italian  wood-fired  rotisserie.  Fruit  wood  is 
tossed  on  the  fire  and  imparts  additional  flavor  to  the  rotating  chickens,  which 
are  stuffed  with  sprigs  of  fresh  rosemary,  onion  and  lemon  wedges. 

Believe  it  or  not,  even  after  five  years.  The  Palateers  still  have  not  tried  all 
of  North  Beach’s  restaurants.  The  sensational,  new  Zax  at  2330  Taylor 
beckons,  as  does  Ideale  at  1315  Grant  Avenue  and  Moose’s  on  Washington 
Square.  A  return  visit  to  the  wonderful  Persian  restaurant.  The  Maykadeh,  at 
470  Green  is  being  planned  for  the  Persian  New  Year  in  March  to  give  The 
Palateers  an  opportunity  to  sample  Maykadeh’s  exciting  new  menu. 

For  a  special  treat  in  February’s  “I  Love  North  Beach  Month”,  20 
Palateers  went  to  see  the  new  show  at  Finocchio’s  after  a  top-notch  dinner 
at  Enrico’s.  Finocchio’s  was  an  excellent  diversion  from  dining  and  the 
female  impersonators  in  gorgeous  evening  gowns  made  many  of  us  vow 
for  just  an  evening  never  to  eat  out  again.  Ha! 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  22 


The  recently  landmarked  church  at  Broadway  and  Mason  will 
provide  a  venue  for  students  of  St.  Mary  ’  s  Chinese  Catholic  School 
for  four  to  five  years,  until  a  new  school  can  be  built  to  replace  the 
earthquake-damaged  original  at  Washington  and  Clay.  Structural 
improvements  and  modifications  will  begin  in  May,  supervised  by  the 
school’s  pastor,  Fr.  Daniel  McCotter.  The  historic  altar  will  remain 
intact.  Carpeting  will  protect  the  mosaic  floors.  Portable  walls  will 
create  classrooms  within  the  large  downstairs  hall  and  on  the  church’s 
aisles.  Pastor  McCotter  assured  us  that  the  church’s  murals  and  other 
works  of  art,  will  sustain  no  damage. 


A  Second  Life 
for  Guadalupe 
Church  _ 

by  Patricia  Cady 


Sisters  of  St.  Joseph  of  Orange  will  move  into  the  rectory,  and 
weekday  masses,  which  will  be  open  to  the  public,  will  be  said  by  Fr. 
McCotter  who,  with  the  sisters,  plans  significant  inter-generational 
activities  between  the  school  children  and  elderly  residents  of  the  Lady 
Shaw  facility  across  the  street  from  the  church.  The  Spanish-speaking 
community  which  built  the  church,  stands  ready  to  implement  plans  for 
future  use  of  the  structure  when  it  fulfills  the  immediate  needs  of  the 
Chinese  community. 

Walden  House,  which  was  previously  announced  as  a  tenant,  will 
lease  other  premises  from  the  archdiocese  to  expand  its  social  services 
programs. 


Preservation  of  this  historic  building  for  congruent  second  use  was 
facilitated  by  neighborhood  associations  working  together  in  common 
interest.  The  landmarking  effort  was  supported  from  the  beginning  by 
Telegraph  Hill  Dwellers,  North  Beach  Neighbors,  Russian  Hill  Neigh¬ 
borhood  Association  and  the  North  Beach  Chamber  of  Commerce, 
spearheaded  at  City  Hall  by  Supervisors  Alioto,  Bierman,  Shelley  and 
Leal. 


Cleaned  Up 

by  Adah  Bakalinsky 


Through  the  auspices  of  the  Department  of  Public  Works 
and  the  Urban  Forestry  Division  The  Greenwich  Stairway 
garden  and  canyon  area  is  beginning  a  new  life. 

A  crew  came  out  twice  to  clean  out  debris  including  an  old 
chair,  suitcases,  bedding,  dead  branches,  German  ivy  that  is 
choking  plants.  A  large  dead  tree  will  be  removed,  other  trees 
pruned.  Two  gates  will  be  replaced  along  the  fence,  and  some 
stairs  will  be  repaired. 

THD  members  who  have  helped  with  tasks  and  contribu¬ 
tions  to  maintain  the  gardensare  Louis  Silcox,  Peter  Andresen, 
Helen  Arpin,  Mary  O’Gara,  Adah  Bakalinsky,  101  Lombard, 
Pat  Cornell,  THD  organization. 


T  mmmmm 

Freebairn-Smith  &  Associates 

Planning,  Urban  Design,  Architecture 

kayeWoods 

REAL • ESTATE 

21 5  Chestnut  Street  San  Francisco,  CA  94133 

(4151362-1  100  Fax  (4 1 S)  362-8SOO 

(415)  398  4094 

Yerba  Buena 


SAN  FRANCISCO  TRAVEL 


Irene  Lindbeck 
Partner 


655  MONTGOMERY  ST.,  SUITE  1005,  SAN  FRANCISCO,  CA  94111 
VOICE  415  677-8700  FAX  415  981-7409 


UtesmeSse®  ©Go  ©am  BframsSes® 
Kloffit?  IRsWsflfl 


Fast  Delivery 


956- 5678 


All  Major  Lines 


Levi’s  Plaza 
1475  Sansome  St. 
San  Francisco,  Ca 
94111 
781-8200 


EADERS 

Paula  Meaders  Kearn 


Validated  Parking  at  Levi  Plaza  Garage 


Issue  Number  127  March  1994  -  Page  No  24 


Looking  for 
Work  in  All  the 
Right  Places 

by  Gardner  Haskell, 

North  Beach  Library 


The  library  is  a  great  place  to  begin  a  job  search.  First  design  a  strategy 
by  reading  What  Color  is  Your  Parachute  by  Richard  Bolles.  This 
“Practical  Manual  for  Job-Hunters  and  Career  Changers”  takes  you 
through  a  series  of  exercises  to  determine  what  it  is  you  would  like  to  do. 


Next,  you’ll  need  a  place  to  do  it  — ‘It’  being  “The  Job.”  The  San  Francisco 
Bay  Area  Job  Bank  1994,  gives  6,900  employer  profiles,  lists  420  industry 
associations  and  gives  advice  about  job  hunting,  resume  and  cover  letter  writing. 
The  Bay  Area  Employer  Directory  is  geared  for  professional  people  and  lists 
major  employers  with  a  subject  access. 

Want  to  be  sure  the  career  you  choose  will  be  around  in  the  year  2,000?  Check 
the  Occupational  Outlook  Handbook  published  by  the  U.S.  Department  of  Labor. 
This  book  describes  about  250  occupations,  discusses  the  nature  of  the  work, 
salary,  working  conditions,  training  needed,  and  job  outlook  through  2005. 


Networking  is  a  job  search  method  that  works  for  some  people.  A  Guide  to 
Getting  Involved,  published  by  the  San  Francisco  Chamber  of  Commerce,  is  a 
listing  of  San  Francisco  clubs,  organizations  and  associations.  It  also  includes 
a  subject  guide. 

If  you  prefer  to  work  outside,  then  local  news  writer  Tom  Stienstra’s  book. 
Careers  in  the  Outdoors  examines  “  ...  50  outdoor  careers...  from  photographer 
to  park  ranger..”  and  includes  100  interviews  with  career  professionals. 

To  go  further  afield;  How  to  get  a  Job  in  Europe  gives  “Names  and  addresses... 
of  over  2,000  employers  in  35  countries..”  and  explains  how  to  conduct  an 
international  job  search,  how  to  find  and  use  international  placement  agencies 
and  how  to  start  a  professional  career  abroad. 


Once  you’ve  targeted  an  employer  you  might  want  to  spruce  up  your  resume. 
The  Resume  Catalog  includes  200  sample  resumes  and  includes  sample  cover 
letters. 


Want  to  be  your  own  boss?  Getting  Business  Started:  Entrepreneur’s  Guide 
to  Doing  Business  in  San  Francisco,  although  available  at  the  library  as  a 
reference  book,  this  helpful  48-page  pamphlet  is  free  in  City  Hall  from  the 
Business  Assistance  center.  Room  156  (554-6490).  English,  Chinese  and 
Spanish  versions  are  available. 

The  U.S.  Small  Business  Administrations  San  Francisco  District  office  at  211 
Main  Street,  4th  Floor,  SF.CA  94105,  sent  us  a  copy  of  their  16-page  booklet. 
Small  Business  Start-Up  Information  Package.  The  opening  paragraph  states 
“The  majority  of  small  business  failures  are  a  result  of  inadequate  planning.” 
This  publication  also  includes  government  regulations  at  the  local,  state  and 
federal  levels,  a  guideline  for  preparing  your  business  plan,  a  list  of  small 
business  resources  located  throughout  Northern  California,  SBA  programs 
including  local  lenders. 

These  are  just  a  few  of  the  books  we  have  to  help  you  with  a  job  or  business 
start-up  search.  The  Main  Library’s  Business/Science  and  Government  Docu¬ 
ments  Department  will  have  even  more.  So  if  you  are  looking  for  work,  a  career 
change,  or  to  start  a  business,  look  in  the  right  place — the  library. 


SUPPORT 

YOUR 

NEIGHBORHOOD 

SHOPS 

THEY  ARE  THERE 
WHEN 

YOU  NEED  THEM 


.iar 

\$\ 

m 

SnRj 

Residential  Hotel 
and  Restaurant 


Basque  family  style  dinners 
luncheons  for  groups 


5-Course  Dinner  $12.50 
open  daily  from  5:00  to  9:30  pm 
closed  monday 


15  romolo  place 

uphill  alley  off  Broadway  between 

Columbus  and  Kearny 

San  Francisco  (415)  788-9404 


CITY  LIGHTS 

Booksellers  <fc  Publishers 
261  Columbus  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA  94133 
(415)  362-8193 


Restaurant  a  Antipasti  Bar 


Everyday  noon  till  midnight 
Full  bar  until  two  a  m. 

Telephone  434-2900 

TREE  PARKING 
(JUST  KIDDING) 


Diane  R.  Shepherd 

BOOKKEEPING  SERVICES 


22  BATTERY  STREET.  SUITE  800 
(415)  986-6652  SAN  FRANCISCO,  CA  94111 


(415)  391-1290 


FRANCO  P.  BRUNO 
NORMA  GIULIANI 


AT  WASHINGTON  SQUARE 
1600  STOCKTON  STREET 
SAN  FRANCISCO  94133 


n  m  h  f  f 


ARCHITECTURE 


North  Beach 

BABY 

New  and  Gently-Used 

100%  Quality  Cotton  Clothing 
for  Infants  and  Children 

468  Green  Street 
at  Grant  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  California 
Located  in  the  Old  Spaghetti  Factory 

415-956-0426 

Buy-Sell-Trade 


SUPPORT  YOUR 
NEIGHBORHOOD  SHOPS 
THEY  ARE  THERE  WHEN 
YOU  NEED  THEM 


MCGUIRE 

REAL  ESTATE-SJNCE  1919 


BLANCHE  STREETER 


SPECIALIST  IN 
Telegraph  Hill,  Russian  Hill,  & 
North  Beach  Properties 
L892  Union  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94123 
(415)  921-5555 
Residence  (415)  673-7483 


ALFRED  R.  PISCIOTTA 
&  SONS 

"Old  World  Craftsmanship’’ 

CUSTOM  UPHOLSTERING 

Draperies  •  Blinds  •  Shades 
2060  Stockton  St.  •  7S 1-627 7 _ 


SINCE  1887 


YVONNE  COCINO 

Realtor" 


Office  (415)921-01  13 
Residence  (415)  922-6404 
Voice  Mail  (415)921-0321  Ext.  135 


Mason-McDuffie  Real  Estate  Inc. 

2200  Union  Street,  San  Francisco,  CA  94123 


State  Established  193  7 


Member  I  DIC 


BANK  Of  CANTON 
OF  CAIIFOANIA 

A  Tradition  of  Honest  Ba  nking 


Visa®  and  MasterCard 


® 


FiXf}ct  M  9®  Rate’ 
'No^ariohle 


'P  Fee' 


Montgomery  Street  Branch 

555  Montgomery  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  (415]  421-891 2 


Credit  Card  Department 

P.0.  Box  24649 
San  Francisco,  CA  94 1 26-6469 

(415)  362-4100 


Oakland  Branch 

900  Webster  Street 
Oakland,  CA  (510)  451-5600 


Chinatown  Branch 

743  Washington  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  (415)  421-5215 

Norioga  Street  Branch 

2533  Noriega  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  (415)  681-5333 


Stockton  Street  Branch 

(North  Beach  location I 
1 301  Stockton  Street  (off  Broadwayl 
San  Francisco,  CA  (415)  989-4088 


Monterey  Park  Branch 

532  North  Atlantic  Boulevard 
Monterey  Park,  CA  (8 1 8)  28941 1 0 

Los  Angeles  Chinatown  Branch 

800  North  Spring  Street 
Los  Angeles,  CA  (21 3)  6294638 


*  APR  and  Annual  Membership  Fee  os  ot  March  I,  1994.  dale  d  priming.  Grace  Period:  25  days.  Method  of  Computing  Balance:  average  daily  balance  including  new 
phases  and/or  cash  advances.  Transaction  Fee  (or  Cash  Advance:  2%  d  cash  advance.  Late  Payment  Fee:  $3  minimum,  $5  maximum.  Minimum  Finance  Clarge: 
J.  j0.  Overiimil  Fee:  $5  per  transaction,  $25  maximum  per  day.  Abo/e  disclosures  are  accurate  as  of  Mach  1,  1994,  dcrte  of  priming.  Such  infqmaticn  may  hove 
changed  after  ihol  dole.  To  find  out,  wrile  lo:  Bank  of  Canton  of  California,  P.O.  Box  26469,  San  Francisco,  CA  941 26<S469. 


Neptune  Society 

1  OF  NORTHERN  CALIFORNIA  ^ 


Since  1974 


Cremation  &  Memorial  Services 


Simple. . .  Affordable. .  .Personal. . .  Dignified 
Sea-Scattering  Services  •  Low-Cost  Funerals 
Our  Neptune  Society  Guaranteed  Trust  Plan 
Protects  Your  Survivors  Emotionally  and  Financially. 


Please  phone  or  write,  to  request  our  free  brochure. 

In  San  Francisco 

2740  Hyde  Street,  Suite  100  San  Francisco,  CA  94109 

(415)  771-0717 


CO  TJ 


T| 


CO 


X 

m 


m 


33  O 

>xm 

o2> 
8  85 
O  3: 

>  F 

co  r~ 

±  D 

co  $ 
co  5 

m 


m 

33 

(/> 


o 


C 

CO 


fi) 

■D 

O 

(/>' 

O 

O 

o 

> 


w 

CO 

CD 


■U 

°8  £ 


m 


THD  CALENDAR 

New  Member  Cocktail  Party 

March  13  -  Watch  for  mailed  invitation 
Parking  Committee  Meeting 
April  2  -  10  am 

Tree  Planting  Planning  Meeting 

April  6  -  7:15  pm  Tibbits,  386  Chestnut,  986-2622 
Mayor  Speaks  to  THD  at  General  Meeting 

April  11  -  7:00  pm  Castagnola’s,  Fisherman’s  Wharf 
NERT  Practice  Alert 

April  16  -  10  am  (see  page  17) 

City  By  The  Bay  -  Children’s  book  author  Tricia  Brown’s  talk 
April  20  -  7  pm  North  Beach  Library 
Tower  to  Town  -  Annual  Hill  and  Pub  Walk 
May  -  (info:  421-3820) 


