ie 


OE,’ 
oe , 


COMPLIMENTS 


OF 


Prouty Lumber & Box Co. 


Warrenton, Oregon 


LUMBER MANUFACTURERS 
WHOLESALE AND 
RETAIL 


Telephone: Warrenton 226] 


BEST WISHES 
TO 
The Warrenton School Administration 
AND TO 
The Parent-Teachers Association 


WHOSE JOINT ENDEAVORS ARE 
A DISTINCT CREDIT TO OUR COMMUNITY 


BlIOPRODUCTS 


Warrenton, Oregon 


MANUFACTURERS OF 
PHARMACEUTICALS AND CHEMICALS 


San Juan Brand 


Producers of 


FRESH - FROZEN - SALT - SMOKED - CANNED 
PACIFIC COAST FISH PRODUCTS 


Branch 
San Juan Fishing & Packing Co. 


Warrenton, Oregon 


Union Fishermen's Co-op. 
Packing Co. 


Astoria, Oregon 


Packers of 


Columbia River Salmon and Tuna 


HUGHES-RANSOM 


Astoria, Oregon 


Chapels in 
Astoria, Seaside, Oregon 
and 


Ilwaco, Washington 


A SERVICE WITHIN THE MEANS OF ALL 


Warrenton Parent and Teachers 


of 


Favorite Recipes 


1947-1948 

OFFICERS 
resident: aa Meee Les ere.) oe eters on Gt butler 
Hetevice President, {9.0 55\\.6 2) ea) UMP R: Knotts 
anc Vice: Pres); bee ch Tae yy ane 
araVice) Presa. =. ... ..) ee emirs. Paul Miller 
SCCTELATY Meee Gar), Me Ms,» Carl) See 
Treasiferme so... ..1.uu seers. J. RR. Chance 


Warrenton P. T. A. 
Warrenton, Oregon 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


CAKES 

CANDY . 

COOKIES 

FISH . 

SALADS . 

BREAD . 

VEGETABLES . 

MEATS . 

PICKLES, PRESERVES AND RELISHES 
PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 


MISCELLANEOUS Fs cn ote cucu ie) htt ae 


ie 


73 


hy; 


“h iy 


CAKES 


A LOVE CAKE FOR MOTHER 


RECIPE 


1 Can of “Obedience” 

Several pounds of “Affection” 

1 pint of “Neatness” 

Some Holiday, Birthday, and every- 
day “Surprises” 

1 Can of “Running Errands” 
(willing brand) 

1 box of powdered “Get up when I 
should” 

1 bottle of “Keep sunny all day 
long” 

1 can of pure “Thoughtfulness” 


ORANGE CAKE 
1% cups sugar 
2 oranges 
% cup shortening 
1 tsp. soda 
1 cup dates or raisins 


“Mother” 


METHOD 
Mix well, bake in a hearty, warm 


oven, and serve to 
every day. She ought to 
have it in Big Slices. 


By Jean Beadle 
Age 14 years 


Contributed by 
Mrs. Rodney G. Northrup - 


2 eggs, well beaten 

1% tsp. salt 

% tsp. baking powder 
2 cups cake flour 

1 cup sour milk 


Cream 1 cup sugar and shortening, add eggs. Sift flour, soda, baking 
powder and salt. Mix alternately with milk. Grind raisins and orange peel 
and add to batter. Mix % cup sugar with orange juice and whem baked 


My over cake while hot. Bake in slow 
; iB 


Be CHOCOLATE OVERNIGHT CAKE 


6 cake yeast 

cup lukewarm water 
cup butter or fat 

2 cups sugar 

3 eggs beaten 

1 tsp. vanilla 


oven about 1 hour. 
—Mrs. Thelma Fitcha 


°4 cup sifted cocoa 
1 cup milk 

3 cups sifted flour 

1 tsp. soda 

4, cup warm water 


Put yeast into % cup water, add % tsp. sugar, stir and let stand 5 


minutes. Cream butter and sugar, add 
tion of milk and flour. Then let stand 
morning add soda dissolved in % cup 
layer tins and bake. 


DEVIL FOOD CAKE 


% cup cocoa 

% cup boiling water 

% cup canned milk diluted with 
% cup water 

% cup shortening 

1% cups sugar 


eggs, vanilla and cocoa, then por- 
overnight in covered bowl. In the 
warm water Pour into 2 greased 

—Mrs. G. P. Eggleston 


2 eggs well beaten 

1 tsp. soda 

1 tsp. baking powder 
2% cups pastry flour 
1% tsp. vanilla 


Mix cocoa with boiling water to make a smooth paste. Add to diluted 
milk that has been scalded and stir constantly to prevent lumping. Cool. 
Cream shortening and sugar thoroughly, add eggs and beat well. Add soda 
to cocoa mixture and add to batter. Sift baking powder with flour and 
add in small amounts to batter together with vanilla. Beat 3 minutes. Bake 
in 2 eight inch layers in moderate oven 350 degrees 20 to 25 minutes. 


YJ 


—Kay Cameron 


a meres 


. = 


4 
ivy fern eae SS ie a eS 


APPLESAUCE CAKE 


142 cups sugar 2 tsp. soda 
1% cup butter or shortening 1 tsp. cinnamon 
1% cups thick unsweetened apple- 1 tsp. cloves 
sauce % tsp. nutmeg _— 
1 cup seeded raisins 2% cups flouy 


Cream butter, add sugar, sift flour, soda and spices together; dredge 
raisins with 2 tsp. flour. Stir in flour and applesauce alternately until all 
is used. Last fold in raisins. Bake in greased pan in moderate oven from 


50 minutes to 1 hour. —Mrs. Ernest Cameron 
EY. 3. at) 

APPLESAUCE CAKE 

24 cup shortening 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar ; ‘1 cup raisins 

2 eggs % cup nutmeats 

i4%4 cups applesauce 1 tsp. nutmeg 

1 tsp. soda : 2 tsp. cinnamon 

¥% tsp. salt % tsp. allspice 


Cream shortening, add sugar, eggs and applesauce, beat together for 
1 minute. Sift flour and all dry ingredients together and add to creamed 
mixture, beat again for 1 minute. Add raisins and nuts that have been 
dusted with small amount of flour. Bake at 325 degrees for 45 to 60 minutes. 
, —Mrs. John Hopp 


APPLESAUCE CAKE 


Cream 1 cup butter. Add 2 cups sugar gradually, beating until smooth 
and cféamy, add 2 well beaten eggs and blend well. Mix and sift 2% cupS : 
flour, tsp. salt, 2 tsp. cinnamon, 2 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. cloves. Add to first | 
mixture and mix well. Add 2 cups raisins, 2 cups chopped nuts, blend well, , 
add 2 cups hot apple sauce. Bake in greased loaf pan 1 hour in oven 25 2) 
degrees to 375 degrees. —Agnes Norelins jij a 


LAYER CAKE 


Sift 2 cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder and 1 tsp. salt. Cream % cup 
shortening, 1 cup sugar. Add 2 eggs—1 at a time, beating for 1 minute after 
each. Combine with % cup milk and 1 tsp. vanilla. Add dry ingredients 
gradually. Beat well. Pour into greased layer pans and bake in moderate 


oven for 30 to 35 minutes. —Lavinia Kindred 


4 
. 


GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE 


Ye cup butter 1 cup crushed pineapple 
1 cup sugar 1 cup chopped walnuts 
3 T coffee cream ~ "ya 


Cream butter and sugar, add egg beaten until light. Line oblong pan 
with heavy wax paper. Place a layer of graham crackers in crumbs about 
% inch thick in bottom of pan, over this pour 3 or 4 tsp. pineapple juice. 
Then add little of pineapple mixture, then a layer of nuts ang then a layer 
of Graham cracker crumbs till all is used up. Top with nuts and let stand 
24 hours. Serve with whipped cream. —Mrs. Ben Van Volkinburg 


SOUR CREAM CAKE 
1% cups sugar 1 level tsp. soda 
3 eggs 4% cup butter 
‘4 cup molasses, coffee to fill cup 2 cups flour ‘ 
Cream butter and sugar, add eggs which have been beaten. Add baking 
powder to molasses, and coffee. Add flour and molasses, alternately each 
to mixture. —A. Ramvick 


ont ‘ 


FROSTING 
1 cup sugar 
% cup water 


4 Boil to a thick syrup, add nuts and cream. When boiled to consis 
thick enough to spread, remove and frost cake. 


HERITAGE CREAM CAKE 
2 cups sifted flour 
2 tsp. baking powder 
% tsp. salt 
2 tsp. vanilla 


Beat eggs and sugar together, add vanilla, sift flour, salt and be ] 
powder 3 times. Add alternately with cream. Bake in moderate oven 


30 minutes. 


SUNSHINE CAKE 
4 eges 
4 T cold water 
1 cup sugar 
1 tsp. vanilla 


1 cup sour cream 


2 eggs 
1 cup heavy cream 
1 cup sugar 


—Virginia | 


1 cup flour 
1 tsp. baking powder _ 
\% tsp. cream of tartar 


Beat egg yolks until lemon color, add % of sugar gradually, then add 
cold water. Add dry ingredients (sifted 5 times), Beat egg whites stiff, add 
cream of tartar and one-half sugar. Fold in whites, flavor and bake for 


about 1% hours at 250 degrees. 


CHOCOLATE ANGEL FOOD 
1% cups egg whites 

% tsp. salt 

1 tsp. cream of tartar 
1% cups sugar 


—Mrs. B. E. Fitzgerald 


1 cup flour ss 
4 T cocoa ’ 
1 tsp. vanilla 


43 cup walnuts 


Add salt to egg whites and beat until foamy, add cream of tartar and 
t until stiff. Sift sugar and fold 1 cup into egg whites. Sift flour, mé@&As- 
, and sift 5 times with cocoa and remaining sugar. Fold carefully into 
whites. Add vanilla and nuts last. Pile in ungreased tube pan and bake 


in slow oven 1% hours. Cool in pan. Remove from pan and frost with choco- 


late frosting and decorate with walnut halves. 


CRANBERRY UPSIDE DOWN CAKE 


3 T butter 
1% cups sugar 
2 cups cranberries 


1% cups sifted cake flour 


1% tsp. baking powder 
Melt butter and J 
baking powde! 
add egg and b 


—Mrs. J. Donovan 


% tsp. salt 

% cup shortening , 
1 egg, beaten 

% cup milk 

1 tsp. vanilla : 


‘1 cup sugar in baking pan, add cranberries. Sift flour, 
| salt together. Cream shortening and remaining sugar, 
well. Add sifted dry ingredients and milk alternately. 


Add vanilla, pour batter over cranberries. Bake in moderate oven 40 to 45 


minutes. 


BANANA LAYER CAKE 
2% cups sifted cake flour 
2% tsp. baking powder 
% tsp. soda 
1% cup shortening 
1 cup sugar 


—Mrs. Clyde Alsman 


e 


2 eggs ¢ 

1 tsp. vanilla 

1 cup mashed bananas 

Y% cup sour milk or buttermilk 


Cream fat and sugar, add 1 egg at a time, beating well after each. 
Stir in vanilla. Combine bananas and milk, add alternately with dry ingre- 
dients. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes in 375 degrees oven. Makes 2 9-inch layers. 


—Mrs. Les Normand 


. 


> 


"ea 
ee ~ onanar COFFEE CAKE 
f a 


6 
© Ji hag aire a ae 


SPICE CAKE 
2 cups cake flour 14 tsp. nutmeg 
1 cup sugar ¥% tsp. allspice 
% cup shortening % tsp. soda 
1 tsp. salt % cup milk 
1 tsp. cinnamon % cup molasses 
¥% tsp. cloves (300 strokes) 


Mix ingredients in bowl and beat 2 minutes. Add 2 tsp. baking powder. 
Add 2 eggs and % cup milk. Beat 2 minutes. (300 strokes) Bake in oven at 
375 degrees for 25 minutes. —Margaret Ann Swindler 


1 egg’ ; 2 cups flour 

% cup milk % cup shortening 

% cup sugar % cup orange juice 
% tsp. salt 3 tsp. baking powder 


2T grated orange rind 


7 ae Beat egg, add milk, sugar, salt and orange rind. Add % cup flour and 


shortening. Add orange juice. Sift together remaining flour and baking 
powder. Pour into greased pan. Bake at 375 degrees 20 to 30 minutes. 
é —Mrs. Dan Puckett 


FRUIT CAKE 


1 pound fat pork 1 T cinnamon 
2 cups brown sugar 4 cups currants 
ups flour 1% cups chopped nuts 
{NF allspice 1 T soda 
ps raisins 1 T baking powder 

i cup dates 1 T nutmeg % 
. 2 cups boiling water 1 tsp. cloves 

1 cup dark molasses 3 cups mixed candied fruits 
 % tsp. salt 
Put pork fat through grinder, add boiling water and cool. Add dry in- 

gredients and fruit and nuts. —Mrs. Guy Braley 


MARSHMALLOW FILLING AND FROSTING 


1% cups sugar 4% cup water 
6 marshmallows 2 egg whites 
2 tsp. lemon juice \% tsp. baking powder 


Boil sugar and water until syrup spins thread. Add marshmallows cut 
into small pieces, do not stir. Pour slowly into stiffly beaten whites, beat- 
ing } der and juice. 

—Mrs. nald C. Carter 


JELLY ROLL 


2 eggs 1 cup sugar 
4 'T cold water 1 cup flour 
1% tsp. baking powder \% tsp. salt 


Currant or other jelly 


Separate eggs, beat yolks and add sugar slowly and water, beating con- 
tinually. Sift dry ingredients and add little at a time with beaten whites. 
Spread thinly on greased oblong pan and bake in moderate oven about 15 
minutes. Turn out on damp cloth sprinkled with powdered sugar, trim off 
crusty edges, spread with jelly and roll up in cloth while still warm. When 
cool remove to plate and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 


—Mrs. Katherine Neuharth 


BUTTERSCOTCH FROSTING 


1 cup brown sugar 3 T shortening 
2 butter Little salt 
% cup milk 14% cups powdered sugar 


Combine sugar, salt, shortening and butter and bring to boil, stirring 
constantly. Add milk and cook over low heat 3 minutes. Cool and add pow- 
dered sugar and beat until thick enough to spread. —Mrs. J. H. Niemi 


MARVEL FUDGE FROSTING 


Mix in saucepan: 1% cups sugar 
2 ounces chocolate, cut fine 2 T butter 

7 T milk 1 T corn syrup 
2 T shortening 1 tsp. vanilla 


% tsp. salt 


Boil briskly 1 minute, cool, add vanilla. Beat until thick enough to 
spread. Add % cup nuts. —Mrs. Otis B. Keyser 


EASY Be CAKE : ar 


Beat 2 eggs, add 1 cup sugar and beat with rotary beater. Sift in 1 cup 
flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, and % tsp. salt. Add % cup boiling water and 
flavoring as desired. Bake in paper lined loaf pan in slow oven 45 minutes. 

—Katherine Hitchman 


TOASTED SPICE CAKE 


%4 cup shortening 3 cups brown sugar 
2 eggs — 1 tsp. soda 
1% cups sour milk 2% cups flour e 
_ 1 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. cinnamon F 
1 tsp. cloves % tsp. salt 
1 tsp. vanilla 1% cup chopped nuts 
he ie Cream shortening, add 2 cups brown sugar and egg yolks. Add soda to 


milk, add this alternately with the dry ingredients and vanilla. Bake in loaf 
pan about 10 by 15 inches. Cover uncooked dough with the following. Beat 
2 egg whites, add 1 cup brown sugar and spread over batter and sprinkle 
with chopped nuts. Bake 45 minutes at 350 degrees. Serves 18. 

—Signe Koster 


MAYONNAISE CAKE 


2 cups sifted cake flour 1 cup sugar 

2 T chocolate or cocoa % tsp. salt 

1 tsp. cinnamon ¥% cup washed raisins 
1 cup boiling water 1 tsp. soda 

1 tsp. vanilla 1 cup mayonnaise 


Put into bowl, the flour, sugar, cocoa, salt and cinnamon. Into another 
bow] put raisins and hot water, let stand a few minutes. Then add soda and 
stir. Now add dry ingredients and vanilla and stir in last mayonnaise. Bake 
at 350 degrees about 35 minutes. Loaf Cake. —Mrs. H. W. Brons 


PINEAPPLE CAKE 


1% cup butter 1% cups sugar 

1 tsp. vanilla 1 cup crushed pineapple 

% cup water 2% cups sifted cake flour 
3 tsp. baking powder % tsp. salt 

3 egg whites or 2 whole eggs 1 cup nuts 


Cream butter and sugar, add vanilla, add pineapple and sifted flour 
with dry ingredients with water. Add egg whites. Bake in buttered layer 
tins. Bake at 375 degrees 25 minutes. —Mrs. Roy Dailey 


APPLESAUCE C | 

Cream together cup shortening and 1 cup sugar. Add 1 ess and 
beat. Sift together 2 cups flour, % tsp. salt, % tsp. cloves and 1 tsp. cinna- 
mon. To 1 cup applesauce add 1 tsp. soda and stir until foamy. Add this 
alternately with flour to creamed mixture, add nuts and raisins and bake 
in loaf or tube pan in moderate oven 45 minutes. If a darker cake is de- 
sired add % cup chocolate. —Mrs. K. Hitchman 


PUMPKIN CAKE 


% cup shortening 1% cups sugar 
2 eges Z cups flour 

3 tsp. baking powder 14 tsp. salt 

¥% tsp. cinnamon ¥% tsp. nutmeg 

¥% tsp. ginger 1 cup pumpkin 

tsp. soda *4 cup milk 


% cup nuts 
Mix pumpkin, milk and soda together and add to other indleaients 


Bake at 350 degrees 35 to 45 minutes. —Mrs. Evelyn ke raichen 
ORANGE CAKE ‘ 

% cup shortening 1% cups sugar 

3 whole eggs beaten in 1 at a time3 cups flour , 

3 tsp. baking powder %4 cup orange ju ad 

% cup water Grated rind of 1 ge 

—Mr arvey Jones 
' ~ 
PARTY BRING CAKE ve . % 
tT 


Sift together: 2 cups flour, 3 tsp. baking powder sp. salt and 
sugar. Add % cup shortening and % cup milk. Beat fom 2 minutes and 
% cup miik, 1 tsp. vanilla and 3 eggs unbeaten. Beat 2 minutes more. Pour 
into lightly greased 9 inch mold. Bake at 350 poxsceaee to 40 minutes. 


CREAMY FROSTING ee 


Cream 2 T butter and % tsp. salt and add alternately 24% .cups confec- 
tioner's sugar, 1 egg white and 4 or 5 tsp. cream. Blend in 1 tsp. vanilla, 2 
drops green coloring. Beat until light and creamy, fill ring with scoops of 
ice cream. - —Mrs. E. Smotherman 


APPLE GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE 


3 T butter } 43 cup sugar 

2 eggs separated 2 cups graham cracker crumbs 
2% tsp. baking powder crushed fine 

% tsp. salt % cup milk 

1 tsp. vanilla 2 cups sliced apples 

Z T melted butter 3 tsp. sugar 

% tsp. cinnamon 1 cup sweetened whipped cream 


» Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks and beat thoroughly. Combine 
graham cracker crumbs, baking powder and salt, add alternately with milk 
and vanilla to the other in®redients, stirring until well blended. Beat ege 
whites stiff, but not dry, ld lightly into cake mixture. Pour half the 
cake mixture into greased pie plate. Cover with 1 cup sliced apples. Pour 
remainder of mixture over apples, arrange other cup of sliced apples over 
top of cake and cover with melted butter. Mix sugar and cinnamon and 
sprinkle over apples. Bake in moderate oven 350 degrees 45 minutes. Serve 
hot with whipped cream. s—-Mrs. I. B. Kempt 


eS LR Oe A 


DATE NUT CAKE 


1 cup shortening 
% tsp. salt 

Ye tsp. nutmeg 

2 eggs 

1 cup chopped nuts 
1 cup sour milk 

to cup sugar 


Bake in loaf pan 1 hour in slow oven. 


Piece of butter large as a ege 
1% cups flour 
1 egg or yolk 

Salt 


4 . 

1 cup dates 

1 cup brown sugar 

2% cups flour 

Ye tsp. cinnamon 

1 tsp. soda dissolved in a little hot 
water 


—Edith Warner 


1 cup milk 
2 squares melted chocolate 


_% tsp. soda 


Vanilla : 


Mix all together with egg beater and bake at 325 degrees 35 minutes. 


BANANA SPICE CAKES 
2 cups sifted flour 
1 tsp. soda 
1 tsp. cloves 


—Hazel M. O’Neal 


1 tsp. baking powder 
¥% tsp. salt 
1 tsp. cinnamon 


1% tsp. nutmeg 
Cream thoroughly % cup shortening and 1% cups sugar until light and 
fluffy. Add 2 eggs well beaten, %4 cup sour milk or buttermilk. Beat well 
and add flour mixture alternately with 1 cup mashed bananas. Add in small 
amounts. Stir in vanilla. Bake at 350 degrees 25 minutes. Makes 2 dozen. 
: —Mrs. Kenneth Doney 


FRUIT CAKE 


3 1 lb. fat pork = 1 T nutmeg 
* 1 T soda 1 T cinnamon 
1 cup molasses 2 cups boiling water 


2 cups brown sugar 
2% cups currants 1 T baking powder 
Y% lb. candiec erries 2 cups dates 
% lb. candied gn and lemon % Ib. citron 


5 cups raisins 


peel 42 lb. candied pineapple 
Sift togethes: 1 tsp cloves ' 
5 level cups flour i T allspice 
% tsp. salt 2 cups walnuts 
Grind por, fat fine and add boiling water and keep warm. Add soda 
and beat well Add sugar and molasses and stir. Sift 4 cups flour with 
spices, salt an@ “baking powder. Add slowly to first mixture, beating well 
after each ,ad . Mix 1 cup flour with remaining fruits and nuts and 
add to first mi e. Grease and flour pans well. Fill pans to within % inch 
of top. Bake at 350 degrees for 45 minutes and reduce heat to 300 degrees 
for about 2 hours. Makes 4 small loaves. —Mrs. J. Coffey. 


DEVILS FOOD CAKE 


2 eggs, well beaten 1 large cup sour milk 2’ 
1% cups sugar % cup shortening by % “ 
2 T cocoa 1 tsp. soda if ** 

1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. vanilla 


1% cups flour, sifted 
Sift all dry ingredients together. Sweet milk may be used instead of 
sour milk. Soda used with sweet milk gives a nice reddish’ color. Cream 
shortening and add sugar, then egg yolks. Add flour and milk alternately. 
Fold in egg whites last. Bake in moderate oven. —Mrs. Bernice Kindred 


anaes ee 


10 
i EE EEE aS 


WHITE FRUIT CAKE > 


2% cups white sugar 1 cup butter 

6 eggs 1% cups walnuts 

% lb. candied lemon peel, fine 14 lb. candied orange peel 
1 lb. citron, cut fine 1 lb. candied cherries 

1 lb. candied pineapple 1 cup white raisins 

1 cup sour cream % tsp. soda 

1 T baking powder 6 cups flour 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs. Sift some of flour over fruit and 
nuts. Add flour and cream alternately. Fold in fruit and turn into greased 
wax paper lined pan. Bake at 275 degrees to 300 degrees for 3 hours. 

—Mrs. Cecil Hall 


CHOCOLATE ICING 


Beat with mixer until fluffy—1 egg, add 2 cups confectioner’s sugar, 
¥% tsp. salt, 4 cup soft shortening or butter, 2 squares unsweetened choco- 
late (melted). —Mrs. Jack Rice 


¥ 
SOFT CREAM JUMBLES 


1% cup shortening or butter and 1 cup sugar creamed, beat in thoroughly 

1 egg. Sift 2 cups flour, % tsp. soda, and % tsp. salt. Add % cup sour milk or 
buttermilk, 1 tsp. vanilla. Bake 12 to 15 minutes at 400 degrees. 

—Emma Lorenzo 


SEAFOAM ICING 


2 egg whites 1 cup light syrup 
% tsp. salt 1 tsp. almond extract 
Combine egg whites, syrup, and salt in top of double boiler. Place over 
rapidly boiling water and cook, beating for 7 minutes or until frosting 
stands in peak. Remove from heat. Add flavoring, beating well. Enough to 
frost 2 8-inch layers on top and sides. —Mrs. Murray Lavier 


LAYER CAKE 


1 egg 1% cup flour 
Sweet cream or milk 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 cup sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 


If milk is used use 3 T melted shortening. Put the egg in measuring 
cup and fill with cream. In a bowl put the sugar, flour, baking powder, 
salt. Pour over contents of cup. Beat until very light, flavor and bake in 
muffin tins. Frost as liked. —Mrs. V. P. Bodie 


DUTCH APPLE CAKE 


1 cup sifted flour 1% tsp. baking powder 

% tsp. salt 3 T sugar 

% cup shortening 1 egg 

% cup milk 3% cups pared, cored, sliced apples 


% tsp. cinnamon 


% tsp. nutmeg 
¥ 2 T melted butter 


Sift together flour, baking powder, salt and 1 T sugar. Cut in shorten- 
ing until mixture is like coarse corn meal. Stir in egg and milk with a 
fork, Spread in greased pan. Arrange apples in parallel rows on top, with 
pointed edge down. Sprinkle with the cinnamon, and nutmeg mixed with 
remaining 2 T sugar. Then sprinkle with butter. Bake in moderately hot ; 
oven at 400 degrees for 40 minutes or until apples are tender. serve with 


cream while warm. —Mrs. A. G. Black 


11 

BOILED RAISIN CAKE 

1% cups brown sugar 1 cup shortening 

2 cups boiled raisins Walnuts 

2 eggs 1 tsp. cinnamon 

2 tsp. nutmeg 1 tsp. salt 

1% tsp. soda 3% cups flour 

Bake 1 hour in moderate oven. —Mrs. Charles Marsh 

MARBLE CAKE 

%4 cup shortening 2 cups sugar 

% tsp. salt 2 tsp. vanilla 

3%4 cups cake flour 3 tsp. double acting baking powder 

1% cups milk 4 egg whites 

2 squares chocolate % tsp. soda 


Cream shortening, sugar, and salt thoroughly, add flavoring. Sift and 
measure flour, resift with baking powder. Add milk alternately with dry 
ingredients, stirring thoroughly after each addition. Beat whites until they 
stand in moist ridges. Fold into cake mixture. Melt chocolate and mix with 
soda. Divide batter in half and add chocolate to one half. Drop the batter 
by teaspoons into a well-greased pan, alternating a spoonful of the white 
batter with a spoon of the chocolate batter until all is used. Bake 50 min- 
utes at 350 degrees. —Enmilie Bosshart 


os owen ene 


CARMEL CAKE FROSTING 


1 cup cream 1 cup pecans or walnuts 
2 cups sugar Flavoring 
% cup butter 
Cook all together to hard ball stage. Beat until it thickens and spread 
between layers and on cake. —Mrs. L. B. Jones 


LAZY DAISY CAKE 


2 eggs 1 cup sugar 
1 cup flour 1 tsp. baking powder 
\% tsp. salt % cup milk 
1 T butter 1 tsp. vanilla 


Beat together until thick the eggs and gradually add 1 cup sugar, beat- 
ing constantly. Stir in sifted dry ingredients. Heat to boiling point milk and 
butter, add to mixture, add vanilla. Bake in loaf. 

Frosting: 3 T melted butter, 5 T brown sugar and 2 T cream. Mix well 
and spread on baked cake and return to oven and brown. 

—Mrs. F. M. Wilson 


WHIPPED CREAM SPICE CAKE 
4 eggs, well beaten Add *% cup sugar 


Sift together 1 cup flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. 
cloves, % tsp. allspice and add to mixture. Bake in quick oven. Cut in half 
and cover with whipped cream and chopped almonds. —Mrs. A. Mizell 


CHERRY SKILLET CAKE 


2 cups flour 1 cup milk 
1 cup sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 
1% scant tsp. salt 2 T shortening 


Mix all together and put in unfloured 9 inch skillet. Over this pour, 
. 2 cups cherries, 1 cup sugar and 1 cup hot water—all mixed together. Bake 
in moderate oven 45 to 50 minutes. Use cherry juice thickened with sugar 
and flour and cooked for a sauce, or it may be topped with whipped 


cream. 


12 


DONUTS 
% cup butter 1 cup sugar 
2 eggs 4 to 4% cups flour 
4 tsp. baking powder ‘ 1 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. nutmeg 4% tsp. cinnamon 
1 cup milk 1 tsp. vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs. Sift dry ingredients and add alter- 
nately with milk. Add vanilla and roll about % inch thick 
—Mrs. Claude Hamilton 


cen nen 


NUT FILLING 


Mix yolks of 4 eggs with 1 cup sugar, 1 small can milk and 1 cup wal- 
nuts. Cook in double boiler until thick. —Mrs,. Claude Hamilton 


CREAMY NUT FILLING AND FROSTING 


2% T cake flour % cup milk 

¥% cup shortening % tsp. salt 

144 tsp. vanilla ¥% cup coarsely chopped nuts 
1 cup confectioner’s sugar % cup granulated sugar 


Gradually blend milk with flour. Cook to very thick paste (about 10 
minutes) stirring constant?y. Cool to lukewarm. Cream shortening, sugar 
(granulated) and saJt. Add naste. Beat with rotary beater until fluffy. Fold 
in vanilla and chopped nuts. U'. % of this amount for filling. To remain- 
der blend in sifted confectioner’s sugar, to make frosting for top and sides 
of-cake. Add a few drops of coloring if desired. —Mrs. James V. Neal 


an 


API LESAUCE CAKE 


1 cup sug or 1 cup shortening 
1 cup applesauce 1 tsp. soda 

1 tsp. salt Y% tsp. clovés 

% tsp. nutmeg 1 tsp. cinnamon 
1 tsp. ginger 2 cups flour 

1 cup seeded raisins 4% cup currants 


: —Mrs. Elmer Farrell 


HOT MILK SPONGE CAKE 


2 eges 1 cup sugar 
1 cup cake flour 1 tsp. baking powder 
¥% tsp. salt % cup milk 


1 heaping T shortening 


Beat whole eggs until double in bulk, gradually add sugar, beating 
until all is used. Heat milk and shortening almost to a boil. Sift flour, 
measure, sift again with baking powder and salt. Fold into egg and sugar 
mixture. Fold in hot milk a little at a time. Put in 8x8x2 inch square tin 
(grease bottom but not sides). Bake at 350 degrees about 30 minutes. 


SPONGE CAKE 


5 eggs, separated 1 cup sugar 
1 cup cake flour 2 T cold water 
1 tsp. baking powder % tsp. salt 


2 tsp. vanilla & 


Beat egg yolks and water until thick, add % of sugar, beat well. Add 
dry ingredients. Then beat egg whites until] dry and add the other % cup 
sugar, Bake 15 minutes at 315 degrees. Makes 3 layers. Cover with choco- 
late frosting. —Mrs. William Camm 


13 


WHITE SYRUP FROSTING 
4% cup white syrup 


1 egg white : 

Heat syrup almost to a boil, add gradually to stiffly beaten egg. white. 
Continue beating until it holds its shape. It becomes the consistency of 
marshmallows and holds up well for days. Honey may be substituted for 
white syrup. —Margaret Marsh 


ee 
tad 


VELVET CAKE 


% cup egg whites, unbeaten 
% cup shortening 1% cups sugar 

3 cups cake flour 3 tsp. baking powder 
Salt Vanilla 


Cream shortening, add sugar gradually, beat until light and fluffy. 
Add % egg whites, beat, then the remaining egg whites, sift flour before 
measuring and add salt and baking powder. Sift 3 times. Add flour and 
water alternately, beginning with flour and ending with flour. Bake in 
either layers or loaf. —Mrs. George W. Kelly 


1 cup cold water 


BURNT LEATHER CAKE 
1 cup sugar 


% cup butter 
2 eggs 


1 tsp. vanilla 
34 cup milk 1% cups sifted flour 
2 tsp. baking powder 2 T caramel (more if desired) 
Caramel syrup: 1 cup sugar and sufficient hot water to make syrup. 
Melt sugar in pan until brown. Add hot water sufficient to make a good 
syrup. Boil together until syrup stage. 
Cream together—butter and sugar. Add egg yolks beaten until light. 
Add caramel syrup to mixture. Next add flour and baking powder sifted 
well together. Add flavoring and lastly the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 


“Bake in moderate oven. 


APPLE SAUCE CAKE 


11% cups apple sauce 
Add 1 tsp. dry soda and stir 
1 cup sugar 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
a%% 1 tsp. maple flavoring 
% cup raisins 
Bake in slow oven 45 minutes. 


NUT CAKE 
% cup butter 
3 eggs 
% cup milk 
3 tsp. baking powder * 
Salt 


. 
were 


WIND CAKE 
3 eggs 
1% cups sugar 
1% cups flour 
y, tsp. salt 


—HElla .Waite 


2 cups flour 
Ye cup butter 
1 tsp. allspice 
% tsp. cloves 
1 cup nuts 


—Mrs. Johnson 


1 cup sugar 

1 tsp. baking powder 
1% cups flour 

34 cup walnuts 


—Mrs. Johnson 
% cup cold water 


1 tsp. vanilla 
1 tsp. baking powder 


Beat gg yolks and water until it makes a quart. Add sugar and beat 
until thick. Add flour, baking powder and salt. Add vanilla, beat well, then 


add beaten egg whites. Bake in 350 degrees oven. 


—Mrs. Ray Blackburn 


14 
ee eee ees ee a eae 


WHITE WONDER ICING 
2 egg whites 4% cup sugar 
2 tsp. corn syrup 1/16 tsp. cream of tartar 
Ys tsp. flavoring 
Place over boiling water for about 6 minutes, stirring with finger until 
you can no longer hold your finger in it. Remove from heat. Beat until it 
holds its shape. Add flavoring. —Mrs. Ray Blackburn 


EGGLESS, BUTTERLESS, MILKLESS CAKE 

Boil together for 2 minutes 1 cup raisins, 1 cup sugar, 1% cups lard or 
shortening, 1 cup warm water and 1 teaspoon each of cloves and cinnamon. 
Set away to cool. Add 1% cups flour and 1 teaspoon soda. Bake in loaf pary 
in moderate oven. —Mrs. Phillip D. White 


CHOCOLATE CHIP CAKES 


2 cups sifted cake flour 3 tsp. baking powder 
% tsp. salt 14 cup shortening 

1 cup sugar 1% tsp. vanilla 

2 eges 1 cup chocolate pieces 


*% cup milk 
Sift flour, baking powder and salt together. Cream shortening with 
sugar and vanilla. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addi- 
tion. Mix chocolate pieces with part of flour mixture and add to creamed 
mixture. Add flour alternately with milk in small amounts. Bake in greased 
muffin pans in moderate oven (350 degrees) 25 minutes. Yields 18. 
$y Sim —Mrs. Richard Green 


We 
MINGE MEAT CAKE 4) 
1 cup shortening 142 cups sugar a “ 
6 eggs—leave out 4 whites 1 cup buttermilk fr 
3% cups flour 1 tsp. soda Ey 
1 tsp. nutmeg 1 tsp. cinnamon ef > 
1% cups mince meat re a 


Cream sugar and shortening, add whole eggs and yolks and beat well. 


Then add flour, spices, soda, buttermilk and mince meat. Makes 3 rge 
layers, Have cake cold before icing. ay 


ICING 
4 very stiffly beaten egg whites, 2 cups sugar, beat very stiff and fold 
in 1 cup mince meat. —Mrs. C. Nasser 


BANANA CHOCOLATE CAKE 


2% cups cake flour 1 tsp. baking powder 
% tsp. baking soda 1 tsp. salt 
% cup shortening 1% cups sugar 
2 eggs : 2 oz. (squares) chocolate, melted 
1 tsp. vanilla 1 cup mashed ripe bananas—2 or 3 
# % cup sour milk or buttermilk 
Sift flour, baking powder, salt, and soda together. Cream shortening 
and sugar unti] fluffy, add eggs. Beat thoroughly, add chocolate and mix 4 


well. Stir in vanilla. Add alternately with bananas and milk in small 
amounts, beating well after each addition. Turn into greased pans and bake 
in moderate oven (350 degrees) 30 to 35 minutes, Makes 2—9 inch layers. 


—Oinna Miller 


yy 


15 
Sn ee Le een 


SEA FOAM FROSTING 


1 egg white (unbeaten) 1 tsp. light corn syrup 
% cup brown sugar 3 T cold water 
te tsp. vanilla 


Combine egg white, brown sugar, water and corn s i 
I ite, é yrup in top of 
double boiler and mix thoroughly. Place over rapidly boiling water and 
beat constantly until mixture holds up in a peak. Take off fire and add va- 
nilla and beat until cool and thick enough to spread. —Mrs. C. Thornberry 


ONE EGG CAKE 


1 cup sugar 1 egg 
1 cup milk 1 tsp. vanilla 
2 cups sifted flour 3 tsp. baking powder 


% cup butter or shortening 


; Cream butter and sugar, add egg and dry ingredients alternately with 
milk. Beat well. Bake at 375 degrees for cup cakes and 350 degrees for loaf 
or layer cake. —Mrs. Harvey La Chance 


FROSTING 
% cup white syrup 1 egg white 
Beat until stiff. Enough for a double layer cake. 
—Mrs. Harvey La Chance 


ORANGE CREAM FILLING 


2 T butter 4 T cornstarch 
1 orange rind, grated 1 cup sugar 
1 cup orange juice 1 cup whipped cream 


4% tsp. salt 


Add cornstarch to melted butter. Add grated orange rind, juice, and 
sugar. Cook over boiling water until real thick. Add salt and cool. When 
cold add 1 cup whipped cream. —Mrs. Jessie Spencer 


TOMATO SOUP CAKE 


1 cup sugar 1 can condensed tomato soup 
2 cups flour 1 cup nuts 

1 egg i tsp. baking powder 

2 T butter 1 tsp. soda 

1 tsp. cinnamon 1 tsp. nutmeg 

1 tsp. cloves 1 cup raisins (floured) 


Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg. Beat soda into soup; then add. 
Add dry ingredients, add nuts and raisins and mix well. Bake in 2 layers at 
350 degrees for 25 minutes. —Mrs. Lawrence Olney 


FROSTING 
1 package cream cheese 1 tsp. vanilla 
2 cups powdered sugar 
Combine all and thin with a little cream. Add pinch of salt and round- 
ing teaspoon butter. —Mrs. Lawrence Olney 


SILVER LAYER CAKE 


Sift together: 2% cups sifted cake flour, 1% cups sugar, 4 tsp. baking 
powder and 1 tsp. salt. Add: % cup high grade vegetable shortening and 
1 tsp. flavoring and % of 1 cup milk. Beat 2 minutes. Add: Remaining % 
cup milk, % to % cup unbeaten egg whites (4 large). Beat 2 minutes. Bake 
at 350 degrees for 30 to 35 minutes. Frost with any desired icing. 

: * —Willia Culp 


nw. 


16 


COCOANUT CAKE 
Sift together: 2% cups flour, 4% tsp. baking powder, 1% tsp. salt, and 
1% cups sugar. Add: % cup shortening and 1% cups milk. Beat for 2 min- 
utes or until batter is well blended. Add 1 tsp. almond extract, % cup egg 
whités, unbeaten. Beat for 2 minutes more. Pour into 2 lightly greased, 
floured 8 inch layer pans. Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees for 35 min.) 
Frost layers with a fluffy white frosting and sprinkle with cocoanut. 
: —Brs. W. L. Harrod 


PRUNE CAKE 


1 cup sugar *%4 cup shortening iy 

3 eggs 4 T sour milk or prune juice 

2 cups flour 1 cup prunes 

ltsp.soda — 4g tsp. salt 

2 T hot water—add to soda 1 tsp. cinnamon or nutmeg 

,i cup walnuts: % cup mixed citron, can be added 


Bake in large oblong cake pan or 2 layer pans in a moderate oven. 
By ee —Mrs. L. G. Cameron 


GUMDROP CUP CAKES 


2 cups flour 1 tsp. baking powder 
% tsp. salt % tsp. soda 
. 2- tsp. cinnamon 1 tsp. nutmeg 
3 cups raisins 1 cup shortening 
1 cup sugar 2 eggs 
1 cup applesauce 1 lb. gumdrops, cut up 


Wash raisins, dry. Cream shortening, add sugar, add eggs and raisins. 
Mix dry ingredients, add applesauce and gum drops, mix in sugar mixture 
and mix well. Bake in muffin pans 30 minutes at 350 degrees. Ice or serve 


plain, f —Mrs. Edna Black 
CHOCOLATE POTATO CAKE 

% cup fat 2 cups sugar 

% cup coffee or sweet milk 1 cup hot mashed potatoes, unsea- 

2 cups pastry flour soned 

Y, tsp. salt 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. cinnamon % cup ground chocolate 

% tsp. nutmeg 1 tsp. cloves 

4 eggs 1 cup chopped nuts 


Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg yolks and hot potatoes 
(mashed). Sift together 3 times flour, baking powder, salt, chocolate, spices 
and ‘add alternately with milk or coffee. Add nuts and fold in stiffly beaten 
whites. Bake in 3 greased layer cake pans in moderate oven (about 350 de- 
grées)*30 minutes. When cool spread with marshmallow frosting. To make 
frosting add about 18 marshmallows to hot boiled icing and beat with beat- 
er until ready to spread. Sprinkle top with chopped nuts. 

; —Mrs. William Hayes 
EGYPTIAN CAKE ; 


~ % cup butter 1% cups sugar 
2 T unsweetened chocolate 5 T hot water 
% cup milk 3 tsp. baking powder 
1% cups cake flour 1 tsp. vanilla 


.4 egg whites 


Cream butter and sugar—put 2°T chocolate and 5 T of hot water taq- 
gether—mix that with the sugar and butter n ixture. After it has been dis- 
solved. Sift flour and baking powder 3 times: Alter 


M to 40 minutes. ; 
—Mrs. K. G. Smithe 


17 
oa Ene eee eS a ee 


FROSTING 
1 cup brown sugar 1 cup cream 
4 egg yolks : 
Boil in a double boiler until thick, add a half cup cut nuts, cook before 
putting on cake. —Mrs. K. G. Smithe 


LEMON CAKE FILLING 


1 orange—grated rind and juice2 T cornstarch 
1 lemon—grated rind and juice 1 egg 

44 cup sugar 1 T butter 

% tsp. salt 


Blend all together and cook until thick and clear.—Mrs. Howard Knapp 


OLD FASHIONED JELLY ROLL 


%4 cup cake flour % cup sifted sugar 
% tsp. baking powder \% tsp. salt 

1 tsp. vanilla 4 eggs 

1 cup jelly 


Combine eggs, salt and baking powder in top of double boiler and beat 
with egg beater, gradually adding sugar until mixture is thick and lemon 
color. Remove from heat and fold in flour and vanilla. Bake in hot over 
13 minutes. For a moist roll, fold in 2 T melted butter into batter before 
baking. —Mrs. S. L. Bartlett 


CARMEL FUDGE ICING 


Boil together: 2 T corn syrup 
14% cups brown sugar 1% cup milk 
2 T shortening 
Cook to soft ball stage. Blend until smooth: 4% cup shortening, 124 cups 
powdered sugar and 2 T hot milk. Add hot syrup to this creamed mixture 
and beat to a creamy thickness. —Mrs. Rex Butler 


QUICK FROSTING 

Place 1 unbeaten egg white, 1 cup either brown or white sugar and 
2% T cold water in sauce pan and place over direct high heat. Beat with 
egg beater until consistency to spread on cake. —Mrs. Rex Butler 


UPSIDE DOWN PINEAPPLE CAKE 

Melt % cup butter with 1 cup brown sugar, cover bottom of pan 10 
inches by 12 inches. Lay in 8 to 10 half slices of pineapple. Sift together: 
1% cups flour, 1 cup sugar, salt and 2 tsp. baking powder. Beat 2 eggs, 
add % cup milk, % cup melted butter and vanilla. Mix dry ingredients and 
liguids together and pour over the pineapple. Bake at 315 degrees for 40 
minutes. If necessary add more heat after 40 minutes. —Mrs. J. Trullinger 


MAIDS OF HONOR 


1% cup shortening 4 nee Dey flour 
%4 cup sugar 4% tsp. sa 
2 eggs, unbeaten 2 tsp. baking powder 


rder given, then form in balls (size of egg) 
and place in buttered m ns. Hollow the center of each and fill with 
1% cups raspberry jam cup chopped nuts. Bake in moderate oven. 
Serve with % pint whi ream. —Mrs. W. K. Bjorkman 


Mix above ingredient; 


r*) 


ee 


= 


18 
se he ke Re a EE 


GUMDROP CAKE 


2 cups sugar 3 cups applesauce (unsweetened 
4 eggs with soda added) 

2 tsp. soda 1 tsp. salt 

4 cups flour 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. cinnamon 1 tsp. nutmeg 

1 lb. dates 1 lb. walnuts 

1 Ib. raisins 1 lb. mixed gumdrops (no black or 
1 cup fat white) cut 


Cream fat and sugar, add beaten eggs, dry ingredients and apple sauce. 
Add chopped fruit and nuts. Bake 2 hours in a moderate oven. —Alta Irvin 


DATE NUT CAKE 


% cup butter or shortening % tsp. soda 

2 cups flour (cake or plain) 2 eggs 

1 cup finely cut dates 1 cup white sugar 

% cup sweet milk 1 or 2 tsp. baking powder 
1 cup chopped nuts 1 tsp. vanilla 


Cream fat, cream in sugar gradualiy, beaten eggs (whole). Mix well, 
Dissolve soda in milk. Sift dry ingredients and add alternately with milk. 
Add vanilla, nuts and dates. Bake in moderate oven 20 to 25 minutes—until 
cake shrinks from sides of pan. Makes 2—9 inch layers. 


FROSTING 


% pint or more whipped cream, 3 or 4 T sweet ground chocolate, 1 T 
sugar and 1 tsp. vanilla. Beat all together until consistency to spread. Good 
with 7 minute icing also. 


FILLING 


Between layers spread filling made of 1 cup milk, 1 beaten egg yolk, 

2 T sugar, 2 T flour, 1 tsp. vanilla and pinch of salt and 1 tsp. butter. Heat 

milk. Mix flour and sugar with small amount of milk and egg. Add to 
scalded milk and stir until thick. Add butter and vanilla. 

—Mrs. Florence Groat 


PINEAPPLE CAKE 


1% cups sugar 2 beaten egg yolks 

% tsp. salt 246 cups sifted cake flour 
%2 cup cold water % cup buiter or other fat 
1 cup crushed pineapple 1 tsp. vanilla 

3% tsp. baking powder 2 beaten egg whites 


Cream butter and sugar, add pineapple, salt and vanilla. Sift dry in- 
gredients together and add, stir in the water and fold in egg whites. Bake 
in 2—8 inch layers. Whipped Gream frosting. —Mrs. Florence Groat 


5 EGG ORANGE SPONGE CAKE 


5 eges 2 tsp. baking powder 
*% cup orange juice—fill cup with 2 cups sugar 
water to make 1 cup ' 2% cups flour 


Grate orange rind 1 

Beat egg whites and yolks separatelytt 
ally, beat well. Add liquid, fold in sifted 
flour is added. Makes 3—9 inch layers o 


b. together. Add sugar gradu- 

dients. Beat lightly after 

. Moderate oven. 
—Mrs. Florence Groat 


APPLESAUCE FRUIT CAKE 


2% cups apple sauce 

4 cups flour 

¥% lb. dried apricots, cut 
1 lb. dates, cut 

1 lb. seeded raisins 

1 cup chopped nuts 

¥% cup shortening 

1 tsp. cinnamon 


19 


1 lb. mixed fruit 

% tsp. allspice . 
1 package figs, cut 

Y% tsp. cloves 

2 cups white sugar 

4 tsp. soda 

1 tsp. salt 

\% lb. candied cherries 


Heat applesauce, add soda, sugar, shortening and then dry ingredients. 
Last add floured fruit and nuts. Bake 1% hours. Makes 5 or 6—1 pound 
coffee cans. Bake in 800 degrees oven. —Mrs. Florence Groat 


CHOCOLATE CAKE : 


4% cup brown sugar 
¥% cup milk 
73 Cup cocoa 1 
Cook together until thick. Cool 2 cups cake flour 
% cup shortening 1 tsp. soda 
1 cup sugar % tsp. salt 

Cream together sugar and shortening. Add beaten eggs and cooled 
cocoa mixture. Beat thoroughly. Sift flour with soda and salt. Add alter- 
nately with milk to creamed mixture. Bake in layers, about 25 minutes, 
moderate oven (350 degrees F.) Icing suggested: Carmel Fudge Icing. 


—Mrs. Rex Butler 


2 eggs (beaten) 
4 cup milk 
tsp. vanilla 


3 
7 
1 


PIES 


To make her husband happy 

Any wife will gladly try 

The solution is so simple: 
For his dinner, make a pie! 


WHIPPED CREAM PINEAPPLE PIE 


Melt 12 to 16 marshmallows in a cup of milk in the top of double boiler. 
When smooth remove from fire and chill. Add 1 cup whipped cream, 1 tsp. 
vanilla and crushed pineapple. Pour into a pie tin that has been lined with 

crushed graham crackers. Set in refrigerator to cool and become firm. 


{Mrs. Clara Lux 
PRUNE PIE is 


2 cups esoked dried prunes 
' % cup brown sugar 


1 baked pastry shell 
1 orange, peeled and diced 


2 T butter % tsp. salt 
2 T cornstarch*(blended with 2 T1 cup prune liquid 
' water) 


Combine all ingredients, cook until thick. Cook 10 minutes longer. Cool. 
Pour into shell. Top with whipped cream. —Mrs. Vern O. Hensel 


PIE CRUST 
3 cups flour 1 cup shortening 
% tsp. salt 1 egg 
1 T vinegar — 5 T water 


d salt thoroughly. Put egg, vinegar and 
ell mixed, add to flour mixture and mix. 
—Mrs. Dorothy Willener 


Mix flour an 
water in bowl and be 
Yield—2 double crust p 


& . aa ad 


pe 


20 Br Ws 


LEMON PIE 
1% cups sugar 1% cups hot water 
7 T cornstarch 1% cup cold water 
3 eges 1 or more lemons 
1 T butter 


Bring to boil sugar and hot water, add cornstarch dissolved in col 
ter, cook until thick—add beaten egg yolks and cook a few seconds 1 er. 
Add lemon juice. Remove from heat and add butter. Use whites for mer- 


ingue. —Mrs. L. May 
CHESS PIE 

1 cup butter 2 cups sugar 

1 tsp. flour 3 eggs 

1 cup milk 6 heaping T sifted cornmeal] 


Mix ingredients thoroughly. Pour into baked crust, and bake until set. 
- —Mrs. George Plummer 


ANGEL PIE - 
1 graham cracker shell te cup milk 
% pound marshmallows 1 cup cream 


1 small can pineapple 
Melt marshmallows in milk, cool. Whip cream, add milk mixture and 
crushed pineapple. Blend all together. Place in shell, tep with whipped 
cream. Chill. —Mrs. Edna Black 


LEMON PIE FILLING 
2 lemons 1% cups white sugar 
2 T cornstarch 3 eggs r 
2 cups water — 
Grate rinds, add sugar and cornstarch and mix well. Beat yolks and 
add, stir well, add lemon juice, stir well. Stir in water and cook’ over low 


heat until thick. Let set a few minutes and t pour into pie shell. Beat 
egg whites and add 2 T sugar and % tsp. va eat, top pie and brown. 


—Mrs. Rose Delaney ~ 


» 


. 


APPLE PIE 
Dice 6 large apples 
' Mix % cup sugar, 1 T flour mixed w 
bottom crust, continue until pie is full. Sprin 
sugar and lots of cinnamon. Dot with butter, pu 
cream or milk. Bake until apples are tender. 


o 1% cups sugar 


amon and sprinkle over 
tsp. flour and remaining 
on crust, brush top with 


irs: C. A. Anderson 


THANKSGIVING APPLE PIE — 


1% cups brown sugar 1 tsp. cinnamon 

% tsp. salt 1 tsp. vinegar 

% tsp. nutmeg 2 T butter 

*% cup apple juice or water % cup Brazil nuts, thinly sliced 
5 cups diced apples (pared) and toasted 


2 T cornstarch or flour 
Mix brown sugar, cornstarch, salt, 
vinegar, and butter, cook over modera: 
casionally, cool add apples. Line pie p 
with nuts. Cover with crust. Bake at 42 


epan. Add apple juice, 
ckened, stirring oc- 
it mixture, sprinkle 
to 55 minutes. 

—Mrs. i B. Atwood 


” 


io 


PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH CRUMB PIE 
Prepare pastry for shell. 


Dissolve 1 tsp. baking soda in 43 cup hot water, add this to % cup dark 
brown corn syrup or honey. Mix in large bowl. 

Mix 1% cups brown sugar and % cup butter or shortening—this makes 
crumbs for pie shell. Add syrup mixture to the unbaked shell, then sprinkle 
on crumb mixture. Sprinkle top with cinnamon or nutmeg. Bake in moder- 
ate oven 30 minutes or until golden brown. —Mrs. Alice Mentzer 


PUMPKIN CHIFFON PIE 


1 T gelatin % cup water 

1 cup brown sugar 1% cup pumpkin 

% cup milk 3 egg yolks, slightly beaten 
% tsp. salt 2 tsp. cinnamon 

1% tsp. ginger %4 tsp. allspice 


Dissolve gelatin in cold water.. Mix remaining ingredients and cook in 
double boiler until slightly thick. Add gelatin. Cool until it begins to thick- 
en. Beat egg whites until foamy and add 2 T sugar, beat until stiff. Fold 
into pumpkin mixture. Pour into baked pie shell and chill. 

—Mrs. Richard B. Knotts 


OREGON CREAM PIE 


2 eggs 1 T butter 
1 heaping T flour 1 scant cup sugar 
1 cup milk 1% tsp. vanilla 


Pinch of salt 


Cream butter, sugar and flour, add well beaten eggs, milk and fla- 
voring. Pour into unbaked shell and cook unti] firm in center. Top with 
whipped cream. —Josephine Wooden 


LEMON CREAM PIE 
Cook and stir over low heat until thick 


% cup sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 

2 T cornstarch Stir in 

% tsp. salt % cup lemon juice 

11% cups rich milk 4% tsp. grated lemon rind 


Cool custard slightly, fill baked shell and cover with meringue’ made 
with 2 egg whites. Bake at 300 degrees 15 to 20 minutes. 
—Mrs. Lewis Falconer 


CHESS PIES 
~~-Cream together 2 cups sugar and % cup butter, break one egg in whole 
and add yolks of two more. Add 1 cup dates and 1 cup nuts, chopped fine. 
Beat well, fold in beaten egg whites. Shape pie crust into muffin tins and 
pour in mixtures % full. Bake 1 hour in moderate oven 350 degrees. 

—Mrs. Travis Shultz 


MINCE MEAT PUMPKIN PIE 
Half fill a crust lined pie tin with mince meat. Fill to top with following 


filling: 
1% cups prepared pumpkin 24 cup brown sugar 
1 tsp. cinnamon ry % tsp. ginger 
1 tsp. salt 2 eggs 


; crust, then lower heat to 325 degrees. Bake 

until when knife is insert in center it comes out clean. Don’t let pie boil 

as it will get watery. % @ip ct opped nuts may be added to the pumpkin 

mixture. —Mrs. Marge Craven 
s] 


” . 


22 
reer ee 


SOUR CREAM Pik 


vee 1 cup sour cream % tsp. each of cinnamon, nutmeg 
wy ~ 2 eggs and cloves 
% cup chopped nuts 1 cup raisins 
1 cup sugar ' 


Mix cream, sugar, eggs and spices, add raisins and nuts. Pour into un- 
baked shell. Bake 10 minutes at 450 degrees then at 350 degrees until done. 
—Mrs. B. D. Peyton 


STRAWBERRY PIE 


1 baked pie shell 1 cup whipped cream 
1% cups sliced berries 1 T gelatin 

% cup lemon juice % cup sugar 

% cup cold water 1 cup hot water 


Prepare gelatin. When partly set combine with berries and put in shell. 
Serve with whipped cream. 1 package lemon jello dissolved in 1% cups hot 
water may be substituted for gelatin, lemon juice, sugar and water. 

—Mrs, Cecil Hall 


VELVET LEMON PIE 


1% cups sugar 142 cups boiling water 

‘4 tsp. salt 2 T butter 

2 eggs, separated 1 tsp. grated lemon rind 

% cup lemon juice 1 T gelatin softened in % cup cold 
1 tsp. vanilla water 

1 cup table cream 1 nine inch baked pie shell 


6 T cornstarch 


Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt, add slowly to boiling water, stirring 
constantly until thick and smooth. Place over boiling water, cook 15 min- 
utes longer, add egg yolks and butter. Cook 2 minutes more, remove from 
heat and add lemon juice and rind and vanilla. Measure out 1 cup of fill- 
ing, set aside to cool. To remaining hot lemon filling add gelatin, stirring 
until dissolved, then blend in cream and cool. When mixture begins to jell 
fold in egg whites and pour into shell. Let stand 10 minutes, then pour over 
the top the cup of cooled lemon filling. —Mrs. William Camm 


PECAN PIE 
3 eggs, slightly beaten 1 cup dark corn syrup 
4% tsp. salt 1 cup sugar 
% cup pecan meats 1 tsp. vanilla 


Mix all together, adding nuts last. Pour into unbaked 9 inch pie shell. 
Bake in a hot oven (450 degrees) 10 minutes and continue baking in mod- 
erate oven until a silver knife blade inserted in center of filling comes out 
clean. 


PEACH COBBLER 


——trean I-Cip sugar with 2 T butter and % cup milk, add 2 tsp. baking 


powder, %4 tsp. salt with 1 cup flour. Mix well. Then pour batter in bottom 
of pan, pour fruit on top of batter and bake 45 minutes at 375 degrees. Use 


1 quart fruit. —Mrs. Elza E. Lee 
PUMPKIN PIE 
1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 


1 T melted butter 1 cup 
2 eggs . n 
% tsp. ginger ‘ wed strained pumpkin 

_ Beat eggs, add sugar, salt and spices. Sti milk and pumpkin. Bake 


sian w 


4 


| } 
—~Mrs. Nicoletta ‘Westergaard~ 


Pap. 


COMPLIMENTS OF 


Columbia River Packers Association . 


Astoria, Oregon 


Martin & Hartley Motors 


Box 130] 
Warrenton, Oregon 


TEXACO GAS AND OILS 
Phone 4106 


Your Satisfaction Is Our Guarantee 


“FUNERALS OF CHARACTER” 


LUCE .FUNERAL HOME 


Mr. and Mrs. Raymond O. Lucas 


531 Franklin Avenue, Astoria, Oregon 
Telephone 5 


Summer's Cleaners 
Phone 2376 


CLEANING AND PRESSING 
... ALSO ALTERATIONS 


Warrenton, Oregon 


COMPLIMENTS COMPLIMENTS 
ic Kaufman OF 
r e 
Chevron Station | p.-amount Drug 


R.P.M., MOTOR OIL, ATLAS TIRES 
Company 
AND BATTERIES 
Astoria, Oregon 


Phone 3851 


Spudnuts Jerome's 


TRY 'EM... Astoria’s Leading 
THEY'RE GREAT Ladies’ Apparel Shop 


Corner Twelfth and Commercial 


Cordz Bros. Joan's 


INC. 511 Commercial Street 


Astoria, Oregon 
DRY GOODS AND 


READY-TO-WEAR QUALITY LADIES’ APPAREL 
AT BUDGET PRICES : 


Phone 146 Astoria, Ore. 


Aladdin 
THIEL BROS. Electric 


FINE FOODS 211 West Bond Street 
Astoria, Oregon Phone 160 


‘ENJOY THE MAGIC 


Astoria Oregon 
OFRELEGURICI TY. 


Hiatt's 
Bakery 


CAKES AND PASTRIES 
A SPECIALTY 


520 Commercial St. 
Astoria, Oregon 


Phone 495 


LAWSON'S 


FINE CANDIES 
ICE CREAM 


539 Commercial St. Astoria, Ore. 


Astoria 


Public Market 


YOUR HOME-OWNED 

SHOPPING CENTER 
531 Commercial St. Phone 334 
Astoria, Oregon 


PALO'S 


Furnishing and Work Clothing 
Men’‘s, Ladies’ and 
Children’s 


ED. V. PRICE SUITS 
Made to Measure 


257 Taylor Ave. Astoria, Ore. 


Union ; 
Steam Baths ~ 


See OlnesimolOly 
IN TOWN” 


285 Taylor Avenue 
Astoria, Oregon 


COMPLIMENTS OF 


Bon-Carr 
Jewelers 


DIAMONDS - WATCH REPAIRING 
JEWELRY 


Next to Hellberg Drug Store 
183 W. Bond St. Astoria, Ore, 


ED'S 
TOGGERY 


Fine Tailoring 


MEN’S WEAR AND 
FISHERMEN’S CLOTHING 


234 Taylor Ave. Phone 2402 
Astoria, Oregon 


West Bond 
Market 


GROCERIES, MEATS, VEGETABLES 
AND FRESH FRUITS 


189 W. Bond St. Phones 596-597 
Astoria, Oregon 


1 So et oe we re eee ene 


G. W. Alderman | Lee's Garage & 
* | Service Station 


Earl Beyers, Manager 


HAULING... 
LOCAL AND LONG DISTANCE 
Phone: Astoria 661-R-1] 
Warrenton 3461 Miles Crossing 


“Shaw's” 
Grocery 


FRESH VEGETABLES 
MEATS 


A. & A. Oil Co. 


Vere L. Alderman, Manager 


Phone: Astoria 466 Astoria, Ore. | Free Dake Phone 2921 


F CONE 
ok Bay View Dairy 


' 
f e 1 
/ Corrigan's 
/ GRADE “’A’’ PASTEURIZED 


pRY GOODS yx APPLIANCES| MILK AND CREAM 


Warrenton, Ore. 


Phone 2251 


YOUR DRUGGIST 
a st COMPLIMENTS 
SINCE 1914 OF 


CC 
( F.M. Wilson Service Garage 


PONTIAC DEALERS 


SSNS? 


GUMDROP COOKIES 


1 cup butter or shortening 
1 cup sugar 

2 cups flour 

1 tsp. salt 

1 T vanilla 

1 cup cocoanut 

1 cup brown sugar 


2 eggs, beaten 

1 tsp. baking powder 

1, tsp. soda dissolved in 1 T cold 
water 

2 cups oatmeal 

1 cup gumdrops (omit green and 
licorice) . / 


; Sift flour, salt, baking powder twice and flour gumdrops. Cream short- 
ening and sugar, add beaten egg and remaining ingredients, mix well. Shape 
in small balls—flatten with fork. Bake at 375 degrees—12 minutes. 


OVERNIGHT COOKIES 
% cup shortening 
%4 tsp. salt 


1 egg 
1% cups flour 


—Alice Reifel 


% tsp. vanilla 

1 cup brown sugar 
4% cup chopped nuts 
% tsp. soda 


Mix all ingredients well and form in 2 rolls. Chill well or let stand@ over- 
night. Slice thin and bake at 375 degrees—8 to 10 minutes. Yields 6% dozen 


cookies. 


BAN OATMEAL COOKIES 
1% cups sifted flour 
1 tsp. salt 
% tsp. cinnamon 
1 cup sugar 
1 cup mashed bananas 
4% cup chopped nuts 


—Jane Van 


1% tsp. soda 

¥% tsp. nutmeg 

% cup shortening 
1 egg, beaten 

1% cup quick oats 


Sift flour, soda, salt and spices. Cream shortening and gradually add 
sugar, beat well, add egg and mix thoroughly, blend in bananas, rolled 
oats and nuts. Stir in flour. Drop by teaspoon on greased cookie sheet 
about 1% inches apart. Bake at 450 degrees—10 minutes. 

—Mrs. Orlo Van Kirk 


PINEAPPLE DROP COOKIES 


% cup brown sugar 

% cup white sugar 

% cup shortening 

% cup crushed pineapple 
1 egg 


1 tsp. vanilla 

2 cups flour, sifted with % tsp. 
soda, 1 tsp. baking powder 

% cup nuts 


Mix in order given and drop by small amounts on greased cookie 
sheet. Bake at 375 degrees 8 to 10 minutes. Remove from pan at once or 


they will crumble. 


FILLED COOKIES 
1 cup sugar 
3% cups flour 
~ % cup shortening 
2 tsp. cream of tartar 
1 tsp. vanilla 


—Mary Van 


1 egg 

1 T soda 

% cup milk 

\% tsp. nutmeg 


Roll out and put this filling in: % cup sugar, 1 teaspoon flour and %e 

cup water and 1 cup chopped dates or raisins which have been cooked until 
ick— id scorching. Bake at 375 degrees—about 15 minutes. 

ahs eae —Mrs. L. M. Hendrick 


30 
pA Be ie a em 


SUGAR COOKIES 


2 cups sugar 1 cup fat 
3 eggs 3 rounding tsp. baking powder 
Salt. i tsp. vanilla 
1% cups raisins i cup nuts 
—Mrs. William Alsman 
BROWNIES 
2 squares chocolate ¥% cup shortening 
u* Leup sugar 2 eggs 
% cup flour ¥% tsp. salt 
‘ Lisp. vanilla 1 cup nut meats 


Melt chocolate and shortening together, add sugar and mix well. Add 
beaten eggs. Sift flour before measuring and then sift with salt, add to 
chocolate mixture, add vanilla and nuts, mix well and pour into greased 8 
inch square pan. Bake at 325 degrees—35 minutes. Mark into squares when 
taken from oven, remove from pan when cool. —Mrs. Harold Gramson 


APPLESAUCH COOKIES 


' 2 cups flour 14 tsp. salt 
~% tsp. cinnamon % tsp. nutmeg 
% tsp. cloves 1 cup chopped nuts 
1 cup raisins, chopped or ground '% cup shortening 
1 cup sugar 1 tsp. soda 
1 cup applesauce 1 egg well beaten 


Sift dry ingredients. Add chopped nuts and raisins. Cream shortening, 
add sugar gradually, beat until light. Stir soda in applesauce, add well 
beaten egg. Combine with creamed mixture, add dry ingredients. Drop by 
teaspoonfuls on baking sheet. —Mrs. Harvey Jones 


PEANUT ROLLED OAT COOKIES 


34 cup shortening 1 cup white sugar 
1 cup brown sugar 2 eggs, beaten 
1 tsp. soda dissolved in 1 T water1 cup flour 

' 1 tsp. baking powder 3 cups rolled oats 


1% cups salted peanuts 
Mix all together and drop by teaspoon on well oiled baking sheet. Bake 


at 350 degrees. —Mrs. W. E. Martin 
i ' ey 
MINCEMEAT DROP COOKIES L 
2 egss 1% cups sugar 
,, 42 cup margarine 3 cups flour 
Ye tsp. salt 14% cups mincemeat 
1 tsp. soda 1 cup ground nuts 


' Mix sugar and margarine or shortening, add beaten eggs, then thick 
mince meat, nuts and last flour, sifted with soda. Bake at 400 degrees—15 
minutes or until brown. —Mrs. Evelyn Graichen 


RAISIN DROP COOKIES 


2 cups raisins and 1 cup water boiled briskly for 5 minutes, then cool 
and stir in 1 tsp. soda. Cream 1 cup butter and 2 cups sugar until light and 
fluffy. Add 1 tsp. vanilla, 3 well beaten eggs and the raisin mixture. Add 4 
cups flour sifted with 1 tsp. baking powder, % tsp. salt, 1 tsp. cinnamon 
and'.4 tsp. nutmeg. Stir in 1 cup chopped nuts and drop by teaspoon on 
greased baking sheet. Leave space between cookies. Bake at 425 degrees— 
12 to 15 minutes. Yield 6 dozen. —Ida Petersen 


31 
ee a a 


GINGER COOKIES 


1 cup sugar 1 egg 

1 cup lard 1 tsp. ginger 

1 cup sour milk 1 heaping tsp, baking powder’ 

1 rounding tsp. soda and salt Flour enough to make stiff dough 
1 scant cup molasses —Mrs. H. W. Brons 


DATE AND NUT BARS 


: cup sugar 1 tsp. baking powder 
% cup nuts 1% cups flour 
1 tsp. cornstarch 1 cup dates 


1 tsp. lemon extract 


Beat eggs well, add sugar, beat again. Mix dry ingredients and add to 
first mixture. Then add dates and nuts which have been floured. Spread 
in buttered pan and bake % hour in moderate oven. Yield—2 dozen bars. 

—Mrs. Ethel Buchanan 


OATMEAL CHOCOLATE COOKIES 


1% cups flour 2 cups oats 
1 cup shortening 1 tsp. salt 
*4 cup white sugar 34 cup brown sugar 
1 tsp. soda dissolved in 1 tsp. hot2 eggs 
water 1 pkg. semi-sweet chocolate chips 
1 cup nuts 1 tsp. vanilla 


Combine sugar and fat and cream together. Add unbeaten eggs, soda 
and hot water. Mix thoroughly. Mix in flour and salt. Add nuts, chocolate 
chips, oats and vanilla. —Mrs. Pete Mandon 


DATE COOKIES 


1 cup brown sugar 1 cup white sugar 
1 cup shortening 2 eggs 
3% cups flour 1 tsp. soda 


Dates and nutmeats ! 
Cream sugar and shortening, add eggs and beat, add flour and soda 
and mix well. Roll out as for cookies about %4 inch thick. Grind dates fine 
and mix with a little sugar spread on dough and sprinkle with finely 
ground nuts. Roll as for jelly roll, wrap in wax paper and put in refriger- 
ator over night, slice % inch thick and bake in oven at 350 degrees. This 


keeps well in icebox. —Mrs. E. Cc. Hart 
APPLE COOKIES 
2 cups raw chopped apples 1 tsp. each of cinnamon, allspice 
% cup shortening and nutmeg sifted with flour 
1 tsp. soda dissolved in % cup sour’ cup chopped nuts 
milk, preferably buttermilk 2 cups sugar 
1 cup chopped or seedless raisins 2 eggs, beaten 
% tsp. salt 3% cups sifted flour 
Mix all together and drop by teaspoon on greased baking sheet. Bake 
at 350 degrees—10 or 15 minutes. Yield—6 dozen. —Mrs. Bern Shultz 
COOKIES 
3 eggs 3 cups cake flour ’ 
2 cups brown sugar 1 tsp. soda dissolved in hot water 
1 tsp. salt + ¥% cup hot water 
1 tsp. nutmeg 1 cup raisins, chopped fine 
1 cup nut meats chopped fine Mix well. 
—Mrs. Ray Jones 


1 cup shortening 


32 
CEC aD el es la en 


OVERNIGHT COOKIES 


% cup lard %, cup butter 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup white sugar 
% tsp. soda 3 eggs 

¥% pound nuts 3 cups flour 

1 tsp. extract % tsp. salt 


Cream lard, butter and sugar, beat eggs lightly and add. Sift flour and 
soda and salt, add to mixture. Add nuts and extract and enough flour to 
make a stiff dough. Make into 2 loaves, set overnight. Slice and bake. 

—Mrs. Esther Birkholz 


OATMEAL OVERNIGHT COOKIES 


2 cups butter, melted 2 cups sugar 

3 eggs 3 cups oatmeal 

1 eggshell water or use 4 eggs 5 cups flour, or more 
2 tsp. soda 2 tsp. cream of tartar 


2 tsp. cinnamon 
Mix together the sugar and melted shortening, add beaten eggs and 
water, add oatmeal, then rest of ingredients sifted. Form into roll. If too 
soft add more flour. Bake at 400 degrees—10 minutes. Yield—100 cookies. 
—Mrs. Travis Shultz 


DATE AND NUT BARS 


3 eggs ¥ tsp. salt 

1 tsp. baking powder 1 cup pastry flour 

% tsp. vanilla 1 cup chopped dates 
1 cup sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 


Beat eggs until very light. Continue beating, adding sugar gradually. 
Fold in sifted flour, baking powder and salt. Add nuts, dates and vanilla. 
Bake in shallow pan at 350 degrees 30 or 40 minutes. Cut in bars and roll 
in powdered sugar. —Mrs. Donald Matteson 


CHEWY BROWNIES 


1% cup melted shortening 1 cup sugar 
2 eges 2 squares melted chocolate 
1 tsp. vanilla % tsp. salt 
¥% cup sifted flour 1 cup chopped nuts 


Combine all together and spread in 8 by 12 pan, greased and floured. 
Bake in slow oven 20. to 25 min. Cool and cut in squares. 
—Mrs. N. P. Christensen 


ICK CREAM COOKIES 


6 T powdered sugar 1 cup sifted flour 
6 T butter (soft or melted) partl egg yolk, beaten with 1 tsp. va- 
shortening may be used nilla 


Cream butter and sugar, add egg and beat.well. Add flour (stiff dough). 
Drop on tin from teaspoon. Bake in moderate oven about 15 minutes. 


—Anne Marie Barss 


x? 

OATMEAL DROPS 

% cup shortening 1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 1 or 2 cups flour 

1 tsp. baking powder % tsp. salt 

4% cup milk 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 tsp. vanilla 1 cup seedless raisins 

3 cups oats % cup chopped nuts 


—Mrs. A. M. Bishop 


al 


RMAN ALMOND COOKIES 
1 cup butter 


1 cup powdered sugar 
¥ tsp. salt 


2 egg yolks 
2% cups sifted flour 
Vanilla 


Cream butter, add powdered sugar and unbeaten egg yolks. Cream 
thoroughly. Add flour, salt and flavoring. Bake in moderate oven 8 to 10 
minutes. These cookies may either be rolled and cut, or made with cooky 


press. Sprinkle with ¢ 


CHRISTMAS COOKIES 


1% quarts dark corn syrup 
1 pound brown sugar 

1 tsp. cardamon 

% pound lard 

1 tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. cinnamon 


ped almonds, sugar and cinnamon as desired. 


—Anna Tetlow 


4 tsp. soda dissolved in small 
amount of vinegar 

% pound butter 

1 tsp. allspice 

1 tsp. black pepper 


Grated rind of 1 lemon 


42 pound finely chopped almonds 7 pounds sifted flour 


1 pint molasses 


Put syrup, molasses, sugar and shortening in kettle and heat only 
long enough for shortening to melt. Add flour, spices, and other ingredi- 
ents. Knead well, keep in a stone jar and let ripen 7 weeks. Roll thin and 
bake. Make the dough in October and it will be ready for Christmas. Fresh- 
ly ground spices are preferred. This dough will keep for a year. 


MONKEY FACED COOKIES 


—Cecilie Leek 


Cream 4% cup plus 2 T shortening and 1 cup brown sugar. Sift together 
2% cups sifted cake flour, 1 tsp. soda, % tsp. each of salt, ginger, cinna- 
mon. Add alternately with 4% cup molasses, % cup rich sour milk, 1 tsp. vin- 
egar. Blend well. Drop by teaspoon on greased baking sheet. Place 3 rai- 
sins or bits of citron on each cooky for eyes and mouth. Bake at 350 de- 


grees—10 to 15 minutes. 


DATE COOKIES 
1% cups sugar 
3 eggs ; 
1 cup dates, cut fine 
1 tsp. soda 
1 cup butter 
3 cups flour 


CHOCOLATE SQUARES 


—Mrs. Jack Rice 


i cup nuts, chopped 

% tsp. salt 

1 tsp. baking powder 
1 tsp. vanilla 

Drop on buttered tin. | 


rs. Claude Hamilton 


2 cups broken up graham crackers1 7 ounce package semi-sweet choc- 


1 cup sweetened condensed milk 


olate bits 


Combine all, spread in greased 8x8x2 waxed paper lined pan. Bake at 


350 degrees—30 minutes. Cut warm. 


BROWNIES 
1 cup sugar 
% cup melted butter 
1 cup nuts 
24 cup flour 
% tsp. salt 


—Mrs. A. G. Black 


2 eggs 

2 squares chocolate 
% cup milk 

1 tsp. vanilla 

1 tsp. baking powder 


Melt butter and chocolate together and stir into sugar, add beaten eges 
and mix well. Add flour alternately (flour sifted with salt and baking pow- 
der) and milk. Add vanilla and nuts. Bake in thin layer. Cool. ‘Cut into 


squares. 


—Mrs. Erna Paulsen 


34 


GINGER SNAPS 


% cup shortening % cup sugar — 

1 cup molasses %4 cup warm milk 

2% tsp. ginger 2% tsp. baking powder 
- ¥% tsp. soda 1% tsp. salt 


3 cups flour 
Bring shortening and molasses to boil. Remove from heat. Let stand a 
few minutes. Add soda and stir well. Add milk and dry ingredients. Chill 
thoroughly or let stand several hours. Then rol] in and cut and bake. 


These burn easily. —Mrs. N. P. gr istenseD- 


? 


BUTTERSCOTCH BROWNIES mM 


a3 
4 cup butter, melted 1 cup brown sugar 
1 egg, well beaten 1 cup sifted flour 
1 tsp. baking powder % tsp. salt 
14 cup chopped nuts tsp. vanilla 


Blend together %4 cup melted butter and brown sugar. Add well beaten 
eggs. Mix well. Let stand until cool. When cool add the dry ingredients, 
sifted together. Stir in chopped nuts and vanilla. Makes a rather stiff 
dough. Spread the mixture well in a greased pan to desired thickness. 
Bake in moderate oven for 15 to 20 minutes. Allow to cool for a few min- 
utes before cutting into squares. —Georgia Shoemaker 


COCOANUT OATMEAL COOKIES 62 
% cup butter % cup lard 
2 cups brown sugar 2 eggs 
1 tsp. soda 4 cups rolled oats 
2 cups flour 1 cup cocoanut 


1% tsp. vanilla 
Mix sugar and melted shortening together, add well beaten eg, and 
vanilla, mix in soda, rolled oats, flour and cocoanut (mixed together). Form 
in Z inch roll, let stand in cold place. Slice and bake in moderate oven. 


—Mrs. Leland Thompson e 


MOLASSES COOKIES 5 2 : 
1% cup molasses t 1 tsp. salt 
i cup shortening 1 tsp. cinnamon 
1 tsp. ger 2 tsp. soda dissolved in one cup 
1 cup sugar cold water 
Mix all i edients. Mix in enough flour to make a soft dough. Roll, 
cut and bake. Cookies stay good as long as they last. —Mrs. Willia Culp 


DATE OATMEAL COOKIES 


2 cups cut dates = 1% cups brown sugar 

1% T flour 1 cup hot water 

1 tsp. vanilla ’ 1 cup sifted flour n 
1 tsp. soda 2 cups quick-cooking rolled oats 


*% cup melted butter 


> 5 I os 
Combine dates, 4% cup brown sugar and 1% T flour, add water ran 
simmer until thickened. Stir in vanilla. Combine remaining sugar, flour, 
baking soda and rolled oats, add melted butter gradually while’ stirring, 
Spread % oatmeal mixture in greased 8x12x1 inch pan; cover with date 
mixture, then sprinkle with remaining oatmeal] mixture, Pat with a spoon. 
Bake at 375 degrees for 20 minutes. Cool in pan. Cut in 2 inch squares. 


—Mrs. Lawrence Olney 


35° 


i 
CRISPY CEREAL MARSHMALLOW SQUARES 
1%4 cup butter or substitute % pound marshmallows, about 30 
% tsp. vanilla, if desired 1 package any crisp cereal 


Melt butter in double boiler, add marshmallows and melt. Add vanilla 
and beat thoroughly to blend. Put cereal in large buttered bowl and pour 
on marshmallow mixture stirring briskly. Press into shallow buttered pan, 


cut into squares when cool, Yields 16—2% inch squares—{Bonnie Jean Davis) 


CHOCOLATE BIT COOKIES 


% cup shortening % cup sugar 

% cup brown sugar, firmly packed % tsp. vanilla 

1 egg well beaten 1 cup plus 2 T sifted flour 
% tsp. soda’ 1% tsp. salt 


% package chocolate bits 


Cream shortening and sugars and and add vanilla, beat until light and 
fluffy. Add eggs and beat. Sift together flour, soda and salt. Adding to 
first mixture. Stir in chocolate bits. Mix thoroughly. Drop from teaspoon on 
lightly greased cooky sheet and bake at 375 degrees 10 to 12 minutes. 


—Hazel Moore 
RANGER COOKIES 


1 cup shortening 1 cup white sugar 

1 cup brown sugar 2 eggs 

1 tsp. vanilla 2 cups flour 

1 tsp. soda 1% tsp. baking powder 
2 cups oatmeal 1 cup cocoanut 


2 cups crispy rice cereal (optional) 


Drop in small spoonfuls. Bake in moderate oven 12 to 15 minutes. 
Makes 8 dozen. —Mrs. Florence Groat 


Ny 


OVERNIGHT SPICE COOKIES 


1 cup brown sugar 1 cup white sugar 
1% cups melted shortening 3 eggs, beaten 
* 4% cups flour 2 tsp. soda (scant) 
1 cup chopped nuts 1 tsp. cinnamon 
1% tsp. nutmeg © 1% tsp. cloves 
Form in 3 short rolls. Place on wax paper—let stand all night. Slice 
thin. Bake in hot oven. —Mrs. Florence Groat 


a 
PEANUT BUTTER-COOKIES. 


1% cup shortening % cup brown sugar 
% cup white sugar Y% cup peanut butter 
1 egg, beaten 1 tsp. soda in 2 T hot water 


2 cups flour 
«Place small pieces of dough on pan, flatten with a fork, or drop pieces 


by spoon and bake in hot oven. —Mrs. Florence Groat 
* @ 
ORANGE COOKIES 
2, cup shortening 1 well beaten egg 
-% cup white sugar 1% tsp. salt te ‘ 
'% tsp. soda Grated rind and juice of medium 
1% cup nut meats ; orange 


-. % cup brown sugar 
Form into rolls and leave over night in refrigerator. Slice and bake in 
moderate oven. —Mrs. Cora Beeler 


36 


¥ 


ORANGE SLICE COOKIES 
First part—1 cup flour, 9 orange slices, chopped fine, 1 cup chopped nuts. 
Mix together. 

Second part—2 eggs, beaten lightly, 1% cups brown sugar (beat to- 
gether until light), add pinch of salt and add to first mixture. Mix well. 
Spread thinly on baking sheet. Bake 20 to 25 minutes in moderate oven, 
until light brown. Cut while hot. ——Mrs) Ho EE. Hurt 


FISH 


There are many ways of serving fish, 
Any one is a wholesome dish. 


EGG, FISH AND SEA FOODS 


DEVILED CRAB 


1 pint crab meat 1 medium onion 

3 cups milk 4 cup cubed cheese 

3 or 4 T fat or butter 

Slice and fry onions in fat until light brown, add crab meat, simmer, 

stir. Pour milk over this, heat. When scalded add % cup cubed cheese, stir. 
Thicken with a flour paste. Add salt and pepper to taste. Pour into cas- 
serole and lay thin slices of cheese on top, sprinkle with paprika. Bake in 
moderate oven 45 minutes. —Mrs. Violet Woffard 


CRAB DRESSING 


% pint of salad dressing 1 T pickle juice 

1 T olive juice 20 chopped olives—ripe or stuffed 

4 hard boiled eggs—chopped green 

1 T chopped chives 1 T chopped parsley . 

3 T catsup 

Add liquid to dressing gradually, then chopped ingredients. Serve cold 
on crabmeat. —Mrs. E. R. Baldwin 
a 


MANHATTAN CLAM CHOWDER 
2 slices bacon, chopped and fried 1 slice onion, chopped 


% green pepper, chopped 2 carrots, chopped 
Salt and pepper 1 can clams 
1 pint milk 


Add vegetables to bacon and cook until tender, add 1 pint water, cook 
5 minutes. Add 1 can clams and milk and cook about 10 minutes, 


—Mrs, L. G. Cameron 


TUNA AND RICE 


1 can tuna or salmon 1% cups steamed rice 
3 T butter 1% T flour 

2 cups milk % cup grated cheese 
1 tsp. salt \& tsp. pepper 


% tsp. paprika 


Roughly blend fish and rice. Melt butter, add flour and milk slowly. 
Add cheese and seasonings. Place rice and fish in oiled baking dish, pour 
over sauce and bake in moderate oven until brown. —Mrs. Ralph Nelson 


37 


eT PR Lede See 


CRAB COCKTAIL SAUCE 


1 cup catsup 3 dashes tobasco sauce 
Juice of 1 lemon % tsp. horseradish (if desired) 


—Mrs, Ear] Van 


RICE AND TUNA CASSEROLE 


2 cups cooked rice 4 slices bacon 
1 medium onion 1 package potato chips 
1 cup cream of mushroom soup. 1 cup milk 
1 can tuna fish 
Fry bacon and onions until brown and mix with rice. Butter casserole 
and put the rice and fish and chips in in layers, lastly chips. Pour over 
soup mixed with milk. Bake at 350 degrees 45 minutes.—Mrs. Frank Maize 


BAKED SALMON 
3 or 4 pound chunk of salmon Salt 


Roll salmon in flour and place in baking pan, add 2 large onions sliced 
thin, 1 clove garlic, 1 can pimento and few whole spices. Brown in oven. 
Over this pour 2 cans hot sauce mixed with 1 can tomato soup. Cover and 
bake until tender. Add thickening if desired —Lena Swanson 


MEATLESS LOAF 


1 cup cooked rice 1 egg 

2 T chopped onion 1 tsp. salt 

1 cup crushed peanuts 1 cup cottage cheese 
ieetat 6 tsp. pepper 


Combine all ingredients. Bake in loaf pan at 350 degrees 45 minutes. 
—Ann Nichols 


NOODLES 
1 egg % cup flour 
Beat egg well, add flour all at once, stir quickly, roll out thin on floured 
board. Dry a while, cut and dry again. Boil rapidly in salted water or 
meat broth. —Mrs. Audry Reed 


VEGETABLE CHEESE FONDUE 


1 cup milk 3 eggs 

2 T shortening 1 cup soft bread crumbs 
1% T pimento 1% cups grated cheese 
1 T chopped parsley 1 T chopped onion 

¥ tsp. pepper % tsp. salt 


14%, cups cooked vegetables (cel- % tsp. paprika 
ery, carrots, peas, beans) 


Scald milk; pour over mixture of bread, shortening, cheese, pimento, 
onion, parsley, seasoning and vegetables. Blend well. Beat egg yolks and 
stir into mixture. Fold in beaten whites. Pour into greased baking dish 

and bake at 325 degrees—50 minutes. 


Cheese Sauce—Place % pound cheese cut into % inch cubes in top of 
double boiler with 1 cup milk, heat until milk is scalded, beat with beater 
until smooth. Serve hot on Fondue. —Nancy Richmond 


COTTAGE CHEESE 
Put sour milk on stove and let cook slowly, until all the milk has come 
together. Strain, add cream, salt and pepper. —Mrs. Delia Christy 


38 
Daa MI Oe st ase Sed A ts an > EE ER 


TUNA FISH PIE 
1 large package potato chips, 1 baked pie shell 
crushed 1 large onion 
1 can tuna 1 can mushroom soup 
Place crushed potato chips, chopped onion, tuna and mushroom soup 
in bow], mix well and place in baked shell. Bake about 20 minutes in mod- 
erate oven (350 degrees). A white sauce to which catsup has been added 


may be placed over the top when removed from oven. ; 
—Mrs. Dean Chamberlain 


FISH LOAF 
1 large onion 1% cups cooked fish—white fish or 
1 cup bread crumbs salmon 
1 egg 1 T chopped parsley 
% cup milk or water 1 T shortening 
Mix together, form into loaf and bake slowly 30 minutes. Serve hot 
with cream sauce, garnish with lemon and parsley. —Mrs. Ray Jones 


CREAMED TUNA 
2 T flour 2 T butter 
2 cups milk 1 can tuna 
Salt and pepper 
Make white sauce of butter, flour and milk, season to taste, add tuna 
and heat thoroughly. Serve on toast with paprika. —Mrs. Ruth Warren 


MACARONI CASSEROLE 


Cook macaroni (1 pint serves 4). Drain. Put macaroni in well oiled 
casserole. Add 4% pound cheese, % cup chopped onion and 1 can tuna. Mix 
well, add salt and pepper. Bake at 250 degrees 20 minutes. 

—Mrs. Bill Bronson 


TUNA FISH CASSEROLE 


1—7 ounce package egg noodles 1—7 ounce can tuna fish 

1 can mushroom soup Potato chips 

Cook noodles in salted water until tender. Arrange noodles and tuna- 
fish alternately in greased casserole, add mushroom soup and cover with 
crushed potato chips. Bake 35 to 40 minutes. —Mrs. Arthur Juntti 


TUNA SCRAMBLE 


1 T butter 1 small onion 

% tsp. curry powder % pound can tuna (drained and 
4 eges flaked) 

Salt and pepper 4 T cream 


Melt butter in skillet, saute’ chopped onion until clear. Add curry pow- 
der and blend. Add tuna and saute’ about 3 minutes. Beat eggs with cream 
and pour into tuna mixture. Season with salt and pepper. Stir until cooked 
to right stage. —Mrs. M. M. Sanford 


TUNA A LA KING 


2 T melted butter 1% T flour 
1% cups milk 1 cup flaked tuna 
% cup cooked peas 4% cup diced carrots 


% cup celery and green pepper 


Make cream sauce by mixing flour with melted butter then addi 

. : . : n. 
m ilk. Stir until thickened. Add tuna and vegetables. Serve hot on toast. OF 
in casserole with bread crumb topping —Mrs. Cecil Hall 


39 


SALMON SOUFFLE WITH PIMENTO CHEESE SAUCE 


% cup tapioca 2 cups salmon 

1 tsp. salt 2 tsp. lemon juice 
2 tsp. parsley 4 eggs, separated 
1 cup milk 


Combine tapioca, salt and pepper and milk in double boiler, scald for 
5 minutes, stirring often. Add flaked salmon, reserving a few large flakes 
for top garnish. Add chopped parsley, lemon juice. Remove from fire and 
stir in well beaten egg yolks. Cool before folding in stiffly beaten whites 
of eggs. Turn into buttered baking dish. Bake 1 hour at 325 degrees. Serve 
with sauce made by melting 1—3 ounce package pimento cheese in two 
cups medium white sauce. Serves 6. —Mrs. Lulu Catto 


CREAMED FISH 
2 T butter or fat 2 T flour 
1 cup milk % tsp. salt 
% tsp. pepper 
Melt butter and blend in flour until smooth, add milk gradually, stir- 
ring constantly until boiling point is reached, or until thick. Remove from 
fire and add fish. Mix thoroughly. Use on either toast or biscuits. 
—Mrs. Richard Green 


TUNA CASSEROLE 


1 onion 4 T shortening 

Sev flOUT ae 2 cups tomato juice 
1 tsp. sugar % tsp. salt 

Juice of 1 lemon 1 cup flaked tuna 


2 cups seasoned mashed potatoes 
Chop onion and add to shortening and cook until tender. Blend in 
flour, add tomato juice, sugar, salt and lemon juice. Cook, stirring con- 
stantly until thick. Add tuna and pour into casserole. Cover with potatoes. 
Bake in moderate oven about 20 minutes or until potatoes are brown. 
Serves 4. —Mrs. Sidney Weybright 


BAKED SALMON, DELUXE 

3 to 4 pounds salmon 1% pound butter 

% cup lemon juice Salt and pepper to taste 

Bay leaves, if desired ; 

Scale salmon well, cut from bone and cut into several pieces. Place in 

baking pan or roaster, with skin side down. Cut butter into slices and 
place on salmon, then pour half of lemon juice over all. Bake in moderate 
oven for 15 minutes, then pour remainder of juice over salmon. Baste 
salmon several times with butter and juice from bottom of pan. Total 
cooking time, about 45 minutes or until salmon is done. —Ruby Kelley 


MOMS CLAM LOAF 
1 pint home canned clams or about “% pound bulk pork sausage — 
2 cups minced clams. Juice of 1 small onion, minced very fine 


clams 1 egg 
1 to 2 cups cracker meal or fine % pound hamburger 

dry bread crumbs Few celery leaves of %4 tsp. celery 
Salt and pepper salt 


Mix all together and bake in covered casserole or baking dish at 350 
degrees for 45 minutes to 4 hour. The amount of cracker meal will depend 


the amount of juice from.clams. The loaf is best not too dry. 
eta ; —Ruby Kelley 


40 
J et ARIS hth Sa 8 Nh cas PN a ect eae niin i 


CLAM PIE—ONE DISH MEAL 


1 pint home canned clams or about2 stalks celery or celery salt 
2 cups minced clams and juice 2 large carrots, diced 


1 large onion, diced 2 slices bacon, cut fine 
2 medium potatoes, diced % tsp. pepper 
1 tsp. salt 


Boil potatoes, celery, onions, and carrots until tender in small amount 
of salted water. Add bacon, which has been fried, also fryings. Add cooked 
or canned clams and juice. If liquid does not cover mixture add water or 
milk, Place biscuits on top of mixture and bake until biscuits are done. 

—Ruby Kelley 


CLAM LOAF 
1 large can minced clams 1 large onion, diced 
¥% pound pork sausage 1 cup milk 
1 or 2 eggs Cracker crumbs, about 2 cups 
Bake 1 hour at 375 degrees. —Oinna Miller 


DEVILED CRAB 


1 cup medium white sauce 1 egg, beaten 

2 cups or more flaked crab meat 2 T catsup 

¥% tsp. salt 1 tsp. chili powder 

2 hard cooked eggs, chopped 1 green pepper, chopped (optional) 


Add white sauce to egg and mix, add remaining ingredients and heat 
thoroughly. Serve in round hamburger buns, cut top out of bun and scoop 
out—butter slightly and toast to light brown. Sprinkle with chopped pars- 
ley. Serves 4. —Mrs. Katherine Ford 


SALMON NOODLE CASSEROLE 


1% cups medium white sauce Salt and pepper 
1 cup cooked noodles % cup buttered bread crumbs or 
2 cups salmon cracker crumbs 


Drain salmon, Flake. Remove bone and skin. Fill buttered baking 
dish with alternate layers of salmon, white sauce and noodles. Season each 
layer. Cover with bread crumbs. Bake at 375 degrees about 30 minutes. 


SALADS 


A little bit of this and that 
A dressing seasoned right 
And lo!—We have a salad to tempt one’s appetite. 


PINEAPPLE GINGERALE SALAD 


1 package lime gelatin dessert 1 cup hot water 


Nutmeats Crushed pineapple 
1 cup ‘ginger ale 


Dissolve gelatin in hot water, when cool add gingerale. When it be- 
gins to set add crushed pineapple and nutmeats. Chill. —Mrs. Clara Lux 


APPLE SALAD 


1 dish diced apples 1 cup walnuts 
Boil the following until thick, cool and pour over apples: 1 egg, % cup 
sugar, IT. flour, butter size of walnut and 1 cup cream, 


—Mrs. Leona Chance 


te 


41 
eee 


SALAD DRESSING 


1 can tomato soup 1 cup salad oil 

1 cup vinegar % cup water 

1% cup sugar 1 tsp. salt , 
% tsp. mustard 1 tsp. celery salt 

2 T Worcestershire sauce 1 small onion, sliced 


Put all together in quart jar and shake well every time before using. 
—Mrs. Hazel Moore 


FRENCH DRESSING 


1 quart mayonnaise 10 ounces catsup 
1 cup garlic vinegar Juice of 2 lemons 
1 T sweet relish % T dry mustard 
% T sugar Salt to taste 


% T Worcestershire sauce 
Dissolve spices in vinegar, add catsup, beat slowly into mayonnaise. 


SHRIMP AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 


1 package lemon gelatin 2 cups boiling water 
1 (No. 2) can cubed pineapple 1 (No. 2) can shrimp 
4% cup chopped celery % cup chopped pimento 


Combine gelatin and water, cut shrimp into pieces. As soon as gelatin 
starts to congeal, add other ingredients. Pour into molds to set. Serve on 
lettuce leaf with salad dressing. —Mrs. L. P. Christensen 


PEAR PEPPER SALAD 


1 package sweetened lime gelatin 1 cup diced canned or cooked pears 
4 cup diced green pepper % cup chopped cheese 
2 cups pear juice and water 
Pour hot pear juice and water over gelatin ond stir until dissolved. 
Cool. Fold in pears, peppers and cheese. Chill. Serve on lettuce with may- 
onnaise. —Mrs. Angus Beatty 


EMERALD SALAD 


Dissolve 1 package lime gelatin in 1 cup boiling water and add 2 °T 
lemon juice. Chill until it begins to thicken, then fold in 1 avocado, peeled 
and diced, % cup diced pineapple, well drained, and 1 cup grapefruit sec- 
tions (fresh or canned). Pour into lightly oiled molds and chill. Serve with 
mayonnaise. Serves 8. —Mrs. Ben Waterhouse 


SALAD DRESSING FOR FRUIT 
1 cup pineapple juice 2 eggs, well beaten 
1 T sugar 2 T flour 


Cook in double boiler until thick. Cool. Fold in “4% pint whipped cream. 
—Mrs. Evelyn Graichen 


POTATO SALAD val 
2 large potatoes, cooked 1 tsp. diced onion 
1 tomato Mayonnaise or boiled salad dress- 
% cup diced dill pickle ing . 
Salt and pepper 4 cup pimento 
Y% head lettuce 2 T finely diced cucumber 


" 2 hard cooked eggs 
Combine all ingredients, add mayonnaise and season to taste Use 1 
egg to slice and garnish the top. Sprinkle with paprika. —Mrs. Pete Mandon 


& 


42 


CEE TEE EEEE IEEE SISSIES Sa 


CRANBERRY SALAD 


2 cups cranberries 

1 T gelatin 

% cup chopped nuts 
Few grains of salt 


1 cup sugar 

¥% cup cold water 

34 cup diced celery 
Mayonnaise dressing 


Cover cranberries with cold water and cook until tender, add sugar and 
cook 5 minutes. Soften gelatin in cold water, add to cranberries with salt 
and stir until dissolved. Chill. When partly set add celery and nuts. Mix 
thoroughly. Pour into molds. Chill. Unmold on crisp lettuce. Garnish with 
mayonnaise. —Vergie Magnuson 


MOLDED COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD 
i package lemon or lime gelatin Add: 
1% cups boiling water 1 cup crushed pineapple or pears 
Cool until it begins to set, then 1 pint cottage cheese 
beat with rotary beater 1 tsp. salt 
Y% cup mayonnaise 
1 pimento 
1 T vinegar 
4% cup whipped cream 
—Mrs. Richard B. Knotts 


GELATIN SALAD 
1 package lime gelatin 
1% cups cottage cheese 
1 cup whip cream 
Drain pineapple and add gelatin to juice and boil 2 minutes. Cool. Add 
cut ‘marshmallows, pineapple and cheese. Fold in whipped cream. Chill in 
shallow pan. Serve with dressing. —Mrs. N. P. Christensen 


1 small cancrushed pineapple 
12 marshmallows 


FRENCH DRESSING 
% cup sugar 
1 cup oil 
2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 or 2 garlic cloves Juice of 1 lemon 
1 tsp. paprika 46 cup vinegar 
; Put all ingredients in jar and shake well. Always shake well before 
using. —Mrs. J. M. Selby 


1 cup catsup 
1 tsp. salt 
2 T onions, cut fine 


SALMON SALAD 


% cup cooked elbow macaroni 

% cup diced celery 

% cup diced cucumber 

4 T minced green pepper 
/# 4 diced tomatoes 2 tsp. salt 

French dressing Mayonnaise 

Combine ingredients and blend well. Pile on platter and garnish with 

lettuce leaves, sliced tomatoes and gherkins or olives. To decorate lettuce 
leaves—dip edges in a plate of paprika. Serves 8 to 10, —Margaret Marsh 


1 cup peas 

2 'T minced onion 

2 diced sweet pickles 

1% cups salmon, boned and flaked 


CRANBERRY AND ORANGE SALAD 
1% cups cranberries, ground, mixed with 1 cup sugar and let stand for 
1 hour. 1 package orange flavored gelatin dissolved in 1% cups water. Add 
juice and grated rind of 1 orange (% cup) and 1 large apple, shredded. 
Mix and set in molds to chill. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 
—Mrs. Leland Swanson 


43 


CABBAGE AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 


3 cups shredded cabbage 1 cup diced marshmallows 
1 cup diced pineapple Few grains of salt 
Boiled dressing or mayonnaise 
Combine cabbage, pineapple, marshmallows and salt. Moisten with 
dressing. Mix lightly with 2 forks. Serve on beds of shredded lettuce. 
—Mrs. Phillip D. White 


PINEAPPLE AND CARROT SALAD 


1 package lemon gelatin 1 cup pineapple juice 
1 cup grated raw carrot % tsp. salt 
1 cup boiling water 1 cup diced pineapple 
% cup chopped pecans 1 T vinegar 


Dissolve gelatin in boiling water, add pineapple juice, vinegar and 
salt. Chill. When slightly thickened add pineapple, carrots and nuts. Turn 
into individual molds. Chill until firm, unmold on crisp lettuce. Garnish 
with mayonnaise. —Mrs. D. Hamilton 


PRUNE SALAD 


1 cup prunes 2 cups shredded carrots 
1 cup diced orange % cup chopped peanuts te 
% cup salad dressing owe 
Wash prunes and let set over night in just enough water to cover. 
Chop prunes and add remaining ingredients. Serve on lettuce with parsley. 
—Mrs. Jack Campbell 


ASPIC SALAD 


1 can tuna 1 cup cottage cheese 
1 cup catsup 1 cup celery 
1 cup mayonnaise 1 package gelatin 
Combine ingredients, with exception of catsup which is to be heated 
and added last. —Mrs. Eugene Waara 


FRENCH DRESSING 


1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. pepper 
1 tsp. onion 1 clove garlic 
44 cup sugar ¥% cup catsup 
Ys cup vinegar 1 cup oil 
Shake all ingredients in a jar and let stand 2 hours. Shake well before 


using. —Mrs. Arthur Juntti 


GELATIN SALAD 
1 package lemon gelatin 1 package lime gelatin 
2 pints warm water 1 box cottage cheese 
1 small jar maraschino cherries 
Dissolve gelatin in warm water and chill. Add cottage cheese and 
chipped cherries. Mold. Chill. Serve on lettuce leaf, top with mayonnaise 
and sprinkle with paprika. —Mrs. Larene Ledgerwood 


SOUR CREAM DRESSING 


3%, cup sour cream % tsp. pepper 
% tsp. salt 3 T vinegar 
a 2 heaping tsp. sugar % tsp. mustard 


Mix all ingredients together. Good on shredded cabbage. ee 
—Mrs. Leland Thompson ‘ 


44. 
joscl LY eM ea A es Ma Gel alan Peeler a eek te 


HONEY SALAD DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALAD 


2 egg yolks % cup strained honey 
% cup whipped cream 1 T flour 
2 T sugar Juice of 1 lemon 


Mix honey, flour and sugar, cook together for 4 minutes, add lemon 
juice and beaten yolks. Place in double boiler and cook until clear and 
thickened. Cool, add whipped cream before serving. —Mrs. David R. Fisher 


CABBAGE COLD SLAW 
% cup vinegar % cup water 
i T butter 
Shred cabbage—sprinkle with 1 tsp. salt and stir thoroughly, add 2 T 
sugar, let stand until filling is cooked. 


Filling: 
Bring to boil and add 1 egg, 1% tsp. salt, 1 heaping T sugar, cook to 
gether 3 minutes. Pour over cabbage. —Mrs. David R. Fisher 


CRANBERRY SALAD 


2 packages lemon gelatin 2 cups hot water 
i cup ground cranberries 1 cup sugar 
1 cup crushed pineapple % cup diced celery 


i cup ground walnuts 


Pour hot water over gelatin and cool until it begins to congeal. Mix 1 
cup sugar with the cranberries and let set for % hour. Then add all the 
ingredients to the gelatin. Place in molds. Serve on lettuce leaf. 

—Mrs. Frank Maize 


CRANBERRY SALAD 


1 quart cranberries (grind and dol cup nuts, chopped 

not save the juice) 1 pound Tokay grapes, seeded and 
1 cup sugar. Mix and let stand un- diced 

til other ingredients are ready 1 pint whipped 
1 pound marshmallows, diced 


Mix all together and put in refrigerator to cool. Serve on lettuce, gar- 


nish with salad dressing. Serves 16 to 18. —Leona Chance 
MAYONNAISE 

1 egg 2 T sugar 

1% tsp. salt 1 T mustard 

% tsp. paprika 4 cup vinegar 

% cup salad oil 1 cup water 


4 T cornstarch 


i Put egg, sugar, vinegar, salad oil and seasonings in mixing bowl. Do not 
stir. Cook cornstarch and water until transparent and add to ingredients 
in mixing bowl, beat with egg beater well. Cool well before serving. 


—Mrs. Carl Berg 
GELATIN SALAD 


1 package lime gelatin | small can pineapple 

1 tsp. lemon juice in hot water 2 marshmallows 

% cup cottage cheese % cup walnuts 

1 cup whipped cream 1 pint boiling water ? 


Dissolve gelatin in water and add all ingredients except cream. Chill, 
add whipped cream. —Mrs. Lulu Catto 


45 
co Se Ee | 


SLAW DRESSING 


1 cup vinegar 2 T butter 
Salt and pepper to taste 1% cup sugar 
Pinch of paprika 2 eggs 


Cook all together. Remove from heat and add eggs, beaten lightly. 
—Mrs. Norma Wadsworth 


HAM SALAD 


2 cups diced cold ham 1 tsp. chopped onion 
1 T chopped parsley 1 T chopped pickle 
2 hard cooked eggs, chopped 
Mix ham, onion, parsley, pickle and eggs. Marinate in French dressing 
and chill. Garnish with lettuce and strips of pickle. Serve with mayonnaise 
dressing. —Mrs. E. L. Watkins 


SALAD DRESSING 
1 cup sugar 
1 cup boiling water 2 T cornstarch 
Cook all ingredients together until clear. Add the juice and grated rind 
of 1 orange and the juice of % lemon. Cool. Measure sauce and add an 
equal amount of whipped cream. This is a very good dressing for fruit or 
gelatin salad. —Mrs. Herbert Braley 


FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 

2 packages lemon flavored gelatin 4% pint cream, beaten stiff 

te cup diced celery, or more 1 small bottle maraschino cherries 

1 large can crushed pineapple 1 cup chopped nuts 

2 packages cream cheese 

Press juice out of pineapple, heat enough liquid to make 4 cups and 
dissolve gelatin. Cool and put into other ingredients. Place the whipped 
cream with other ingredients before adding gelatin. Mold and let stand. 
Cut in slices or squares and serve with whipped cream or mayonnaise. 

—Mrs. Florence Groat 


BREAD 


A contented man is one who’s fed 
On biscuits, muffins and home made bread. 


ICE BOX ROLLS 


1 cup mashed potatoes 1 quart milk 

% cup sugar % cup shortening Fs 
3 sifters flour 4 tsp. baking powder 

1T salt 2 cakes yeast 

1 tsp. soda 


Add potatoes and shortening to scalded milk, let stand until cool, stir 
well together. When cool stir in sugar, dissolved yeast and remaining in- 
gredients. Place in greased pan. Let stand in ice box 2 hours before making 


rolls. 
a 


NEVER FAIL DUMPLINGS 

Sift 2 cups flour with 4 tsp. baking powder, pinch of salt and blend in 
1 T butter, add 1 egg well beaten, with enough milk to make a very stiff 
dough. Steam 12 or 15 minutes. —Mrs. R. R. Bartlett 


a, 


46 


— 
i RR A NR A RR EERE ATOMS SES 5 AES MRE 


SOUR MILK PANCAKES 


2 eggs 2 tsp. baking powder 
2 cups sour milk 2 T sugar : 
2% cups flour 4 T melted shortening 
1 tsp. soda 


Place eggs and sour milk in bowl and mix at high speed. Sift and 
measure flour and add soda, baking powder, salt and sugar. Turn beater 
to medium speed and add all dry ingredients, beat until smooth, scraping 
sides often. Add melted shortening and beat until smooth. Yields 28—4 inch 
pancakes. —Mrs. Dorothye Woodhead 


BROWN BREAD 


1 quart sifted graham flour 1 egg 
1 tsp» soda 44 cup molasses 
.% cup sugar 1 pint sweet milk 


% tsp. baking powde 
~ Mix well the dry ing -edients and add egg, molasses and milk. Steam 


-40 minutes. —Agnes Norelins 


\ 


MUFFINS : 3 < ~~ 


2 cups sifted = 1 egg, well beaten 
d 


2 tsp. baking powder ¥ 1 cup milk 
2 T sugar P 4 T melted butter or fat 
% tsp. salt 


Sift flour once, measure, sift with baking powder, sugar 
bine egg, milk, and shortening, add flour mixture, beating 
dampen flour. Turn into greased muffin pans. Bake in hot 


d salt. Com- 
hy h to 
en 20° minutes. 
irginia Garriott 


ROLLED OAT ROLLS’ } | 
1% cup rolled oats 5 1% cup brown sugar 
% cup corn meal 1 T shortening 
5% cups flour 1 yeastcake | 


2 cups boiling water 2 tsp. salt 
“% cup lukewarm water oA 
Place joats, cornmeal, shortening, sugar a salt in bowl. Pour boiling 


water over all. When lukewarm add yeastcake which has been softened in 
water. Add 2 cups flour, beat until foamy; add rest of flour, 
knead until elastic. Returnf#to pan, let rise until double in bulk, cut down, 
til just before double in bulk. Bake in hot oven 


(400 degrees), 2 —Viola Fortune 
SWEDISH LIMPA BREAD pa: 
1 quart buttermilk % cup mediura dark molasses 
at tsp. soda 2 pounds rye flour ‘ 
1 pint water . == 2% pounds white flour 
2 T shortening aS Rca 2“yeast cakes dissolved in % cup 
po CoD PRE ee 4S > warm water with 1 tsp. sugar _ 
sa ‘ 


Put water, .shortening, Sugar, salt and Olasses into saucepan, heat 
until all is melted. Put buttermilk. in large bowl;-add soda, then hot liquid, 
mix well, add rye flour, then yeast,.add white flour. Knead until thoroughly 
blended. Let rise until double in bulk, about Z hours. Turn out on floured 
board, knead and shape into loaves using enoush flour to keep from. 
ing. Put in greased loaf tins, let rise untii aouble in size, about 1: 
Bake in medium hot oven for 50 to 60 minuies. Yield 6 loaves. 


—Mrs. E. A. 


% 


ae ee 


" e 


ICE BOX ROLLS 


1 quart milk, scalded and cooled 1 cake yeast dissolved in 1 cup 
1 cup shortening lukewarm water 
1 cup mashed potatoes 1 cup sugar 


Mix thoroughly and add enough flour to make a soft batter. Let rise 
until double in bulk. Add 2 tsp. baking powder, 2 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. soda. Mix 
enough flour to make a stiff daugh. Raise 1 hour before baking. Knead 


dough daily. Use onlgas you need it. —Mrs. Kebbe 
: 
+ 
BANANA TEA BREAD ¢ 
= 
% tsp. soda 3 4% cup shortening 
154 cups sifted flour 24 cup sugar 
¥% tsp. cream of tartar 2 eggs well beaten 
\% tsp. salt 1 cup mashed bananas 


Sift flour, soda, cream of tartar and salt together 3 times. Cream short- 
ening and sugar until fluffy, add egg and beat well, add flour mixture al- 
ternately with banana. Beat until smooth. Pour into well. greased loaf pan. 


Bake (350 degrees) 1 hour. —Mrs. C. E. Beyers 
NUT BREAD 

3 cups sifted flour i egg, beaten 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

1% tsp. salt 1 cup walnuts, coarsely chopped 


4 tsp. baking powder 
Sift flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder into mixing bowl and add egg 
mixed with milk and beat well. Stir in walnuts. Pour into well greased loaf 
pan and let stand 20 minutes. Bake at 350 degrees 65 to 70 minutes. Turn 


onto rack to cool. —Mrs. I. Nygaard 
DATE BREAD : * 
2 cups graham flour or 2 cups bran2 eggs 
flakes 1 cup chopped nuts 
2 cups white flour 26 cup dates 
4 tsp. baking powder 1% cups milk 
1 tsp. salt 2 T melted shortening 
1 cup sugar p 
Let rise 20 minutes. Bake 45 minutes in moderate oven. Yield—2 loaves. 
a —Ruby Davis 
NORWEGIAN CHRISTMAS BREAD 
2 cakes yeast 1 tsp. salt 
¥% cup lukewarm water % tsp. cardamom seed " 
2 cups milk, scalded and cooled 7 cups flour (about) Ps 
1 cup shortening ¥% cup raisins 
1 cup sugar 1 cup fruit mix 


2 eggs, beaten 

Soften yeast in water, add milk. Cream shortening with sugar, add eggs 
and beat,-add salt and cardamon seed. Add 3 cups flour alternately with 
liquid, beat until smooth. Combine remaining flour with raisins, and fruit 
and add, mixing until flour is blended. Turn on floured board and knead 
5 minutes. Place in greased bowl, cover, let rise until double, punch down 
and divide in 3 parts and shape in loaves. Place in 3 well greased bread 
pans. Let rise again. Brush with 1 egg yolk beaten with 2 T sugar and 2T 
milk. Bake at 425 degrees for 20 minutes. Decrease heat to 350 degrees, bake 
40 minutes more. —Mrs. L. M. Hendrick 


dl aaa 


pet 


48 " + * 


BANANA NUT BREAD. 1 , 

1 cup sugar ade - 2 cups flour 

% cup butter . 1% tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs ! 1% tsp. soda we 

1% T sour milk Fs 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 tsp. lemon juice case 

Cream sugar and shortening, add s beaten light, mashed bananas, 

sour milk and lemon juice. Mix well, a emaining dry ingredients sifted 
together and nuts. Blend thoroughly and bake 45 minutes in moderate oven 
350 degrees. ae iia Mrs. Frank Maize 
REFRIGERATOR ROLLS . eZ 

2 cakes yeast w 47 melted shortening 

T sugar P 6 cups sifted flour 


cups milk, scalded and cooled 2 tsp. salt — 


Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm milk. Add shortening and half 
the flour. Beat until smooth, add salt and remainder of flour. Knead well 
and place in greased bowl, cover, let rise until double in bulk, stir down. 
Cover well and place in refrigerator until needed. To use, cut off as much 
dough as desired, roll out on lightly floured board, shape Bio rolls and 
place in greased pans. Let rise in warm place until double bulk. Bake 
in hot oven at 425 degrees about 20 minutes. This dough may be kept 4 or 
5 days. Makes 2% dozen large rolls. 

—Mrs. G. Bryant 


JAMES RIVER WAFFLES 


2 cups flour 2 tsp. baking powder 
3 eggs 1 tsp. soda 
1% tsp. salt 6 T butter 


2 cups sour milk 
Separate eggs, beat yolks until light. Add 1 cup milk. Measure and sift 


dry ingredients, add to yolk mixture and beat well. Add other cup of milk, 


beat’ Add melted butter, fold in whites of eggs, add more butter and milk if 


necessary. Makes 9 waffles. —Lilian S. Tabke 


FUTTYMAND OR POOR MAN’S BREAD 


6 egg yolks. 6 T cream 
2 egg whites \% tsp. cardamom seed 
6 T sugar Flour 
Mix in or ven, using enough flour to roll out thin. Cut in diamond 
shape, cut as ar one point and put the other point through the slit 


crosswise. Drop deep fat like doughnuts. 
—Mrs. Lloyd Martin 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

et: flour 3 tsp. baking powder 
fat *2 cup milk 
‘Sift dry ingredients, cut in fat. Add milk gradually to make soft dough. 

Knead gently on floured board. Bake at 450 degrees—12 to 15 minutes. 
—Mrs. Ruth Warren 

DATE NUT BREAD 


*4 cup brown sugar 4 1 T butter 
1 egg _ 1 tsp. salt 
1% cups flour % cup nuts 


1 cup dates, cut fine 


Put 1 cup boiling water with 1 tsp. baking soda over dates and let 
stand. Mix other ingredients and add dates. Bake at 350 degrees 1 hour. 


—Mrs. Kenneth Doney 


Gagne. 55 


ai 
by 


iad 49 


BISHOP’S BREAD 


2% cups sifted flour 1% cups brown sugar 
% tsp. salt % “cup shortening 

1 tsp. baking powder % tsp. soda 

1 tsp. cinnamon 1 egg, beaten — 


% cup sour milk or buttermilk 
Sift flour, measure and add sugar and salt. Cut in shortening until 
mixture looks like coarse meal; reserve % cup for top. To remainder add 
baking powder, soda and cinnamon, then add egg and sour milk and beat 
until smooth. Turn into greased pan. Sprinkle with reserved % cup mixture 
and additional cinnamon. Bake at 400 degrees—25 minutes. Serve warm. 
—Mrs. Nancy Richmond 


CINNAMON BUNS e 


3 cups flour 2 T sugar 

1 tsp. salt 6 tsp. baking powder 
2 T shortening 1 egg 

24 cup water % cup brown sugar 


2 tsp. cinnamon 


® Sift 2 T sugar with flour, salt and baking powder, rub shortening in 
lightly, add beaten egg to water and add slowly. Roll out % inch thick on 
floured board, brush with softened butter, sprinkle thickly with brown 
sugar, cinnamon and raisins. Roll as for jelly roll. Have prepared 6 T 
shortening creamed with 6 T brown sugar. Spread this mixture on the 
bottom and sides of baking pan, or skillet. Cut dough into 1% inch pieces 
and place with cut edges up on pan. Allow to stand 15 minutes. Bake in hot 
oven 25 minutes. Remove from pan, turn upside down to serve. 

—Mrs. Otis B. Keyser 


TWIN MOUNTAIN MUFFINS 


2 cups flour 4 tsp. baking powder 
1 tsp. salt 1 egg : 
1 cup milk 1 T melted butter * 


44 cup sugar 
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat egg, add milk, then add liquids to 
dry ingredients. Beat 2 minutes, add the melted butter. Fill well buttered 
muffin pans one-half full. Bake in moderate oven 20 minutes. 


—Mrs. J. D. Drake 


NEW ENGLAND BROWN BREAD % bi 
1 cup graham flour 1 cup white flour 
1 cup yellow corn meal 144 cup brown sugar 
4 cup dark molasses 2 cups warm water 
2 heaping tsp. baking powder 2 tsp. soda 
1 tsp. salt 


Mix ingredients and place in 1 pound cans. Fill cans about thr -fourths 
full. Cover with wax paper and steam 1% hours. Remove cover nd bake 


20 minutes. This makes 3 one pound loaves. —Mrs. P. Ww. Lane 
CRUNCHY CHEESE FINGERS o 
1% cup crushed corn flakes 1% tsp. mustard 


% pound soft cream cheese, grated % cup butter or shortening 
on coarse grater. (sharp cheese % tsp. salt 
preferred) % tsp. paprika 
1% cup flour 
Blend butter and cheese, add corn flakes, then flour, salt and spice. 


Roll out about ™% inch thick and cut into strips. Bake in moderate oven. 
— Emilie Bosshart 


50 


MAPLE BARS yr 
2 cakes yeast - 1, cup lukewarm water 
1 cup milk ° % cup butter 
% cup sugar 1 tsp. salt 
2 eggs, beaten 5 cups flour (about) 


Soften yeast in lukewarm water. Scald milk, add butter, sugar and 
salt, add yeast and eggs. Beat well, add enough flour to make a soft dough. 
Turn onto a floured board and knead well. Place in a greased bowl, let 
rise double in bulk, turn out on board and roll % inch thick, cut with a 
sharp knife in strips 3 inches long and 1% inches wide. Let rise to double 
in bulk. Fry in hot fat. When cool cover each side with 2 cups XX XX sugar, 
2 T hot water and 1 tsp. maple flavoring mixed thoroughly. 

—Mrs. J. W. Drake 


POTATO BUNS 


2 cups hot mashed potatoes IT salt 

2 cups milk 2 T sugar 

4 T melted shortening 1 cake yeast 

6 cups flour 2 eggs, well beaten 


Add sugar, salt and shortening to potatoes. Cool and add eggs. Soften 
yeast in milk and add potato mixture. Add flour, a little at a time, beating 
well. Knead until] elastic. Cover with a damp cloth and set in a warm place 
until double in bulk. Form into buns, and let rise until double in size. Bake 


in a hot oven for 25 minutes. —Mrs. Jessie Spencer 
BREAD 
2 cups scalded milk, cooled 2 T melted butter added to milk 
2 T sugar 1T salt 
1 yeast cake soaked in % cup 10 cups flour—% white and % dark 
warm water flour 
Makes 2 loaves of bread, and a pan of clover leaf rolls. —Tracy Jones 


REFRIGERATOR ROLLS 


2 cakes yeast 1% cups lukewarm water 
2 tsp. salt 44 cup sugar 
2 beaten eggs % cup melted shortening 


6 cups sifted flour 


Dissolve yeast in water, add salt, sugar, egg and shortening. Beat. Add 
flour 1 cup at a time. Place in greased bowl and put in refrigerator until 
ready for use. Let rise in bowl until double in bulk. Knead and shape into 
rolls. Place in pans and when double in bulk again, bake at 425 degrees— 
20 or 25 minutes. 2 dozen rolls. —Mrs. Donald Matteson 


BANANA BRAN MUFFINS 


1 cup flour 46 tsp. salt 

Vy tsp. soda 1 tsp. baking powder 
2 cups sliced bananas 2 T milk 

2 -T shortening % cup sugar 

1 egg, well beaten 1 cup shredded bran 


Sift together flour, salt, soda and baking powder. Cream shortening and 
sugar until soft and fluffy, add eggs, bran and milk. Add thinly sliced 
bananas. Mix well. Add sifted dry ingredients, stirring as little as possible. 
Oil muffin tins and fill half full. Bake at 375 degrees for 15 minutes. 


—Mrs. Katherine Ford 


51 


SWEET ROLLS 


2 cakes yeast 2 tsp. lukewarm water 
% cup sugar 1 cup scalded milk 

1% cup shortening 1 tsp. salt 

3 eggs 5 cups sifted flour 


Soften yeast in water to which 1 T sugar has been added. Combine the 
remaining sugar, milk, shortening and salt in large bowl. Turn electric 
beater to low speed and beat, add eggs, 2 cups flour. Beat on medium speed 
4 minutes. With spoon add flour until the balance is mixed in without 
kneading. Place in greased bowl, cover and let rise in a warm place until 
double in bulk. Turn onto lightly floured board, divide in 2 equal parts. 
Roll each out round about 9 inches in diameter. Divide each round into 12 
wedge shaped pieces. Starting with the wide end roll up each piece. Ar- 
range rolls in greased baking pan with the small end down. Brush rolls 
with condensed milk and sprinkle with poppy seeds if desired. Let rise in 
warm place (75-85 degrees) until double in bulk. Bake in hot oven, 425 
degrees about 25 minutes. Makes 2 dozen. —Alice Moeller 


Vegetables 


CORN AND POTATO CHOWDER 


4% cup chopped celery 2 T chopped onion 
1 cup fresh or canned corn 1% cups water 

2 tsp. salt lg tsp. pepper 

4 T melted fat 3 T flour 


2 cups scalded milk 


Cook vegetables in water about 30 minutes—until tender. Add season- 
ings. Mix flour and melted fat and add to vegetables. Cook 10 minutes. 
Add milk and cook a few minutes more. —Mrs. Earl] Van 


CHICKEN STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 


4 Jarge green peppers 1 pint cooked chicken 
1 pint cooked rice 1 can cream of mushroom soup 
2 tsp. salt 2 tsp. black pepper 


Cut stem end, seeds and membrane from peppers. Mix chicken, rice, 
soup and seasonings. Fill peppers and place in baking dish, add 3 T hot 
water. Bake at 400 degrees—45 minutes. —Mrs. C. W. Hayes 


CHEESE AND SWEET POTATOES 


4 medium sweet potatoes 1 cup boiling water 
1 tsp. salt Pepper ; 

1 T sugar % cup milk 

1 T butter *%4 cup sharp cheese 


Prepare potatoes, slice, add boiling water and half the salt. Cover. Sim- 
mer 15 minutes. Arrange in layers in baking dish. Sprinkle each layer with 
remaining salt, pepper and sugar. Bake uncovered at 350 degrees—30 min- 
utes. Sprinkle with cheese last 10 to 15 minutes. —Mrs. William Hayes 


FRENCH PEAS 


1 T butter 1 can peas 
1 chopped onion 4 slices diced bacon 
1 cup milk Salt and pepper 


Brown bacon and onion in frying pan, add peas, milk, butter and salt 
and pepper to taste. Cook gently until thickened. —Mrs. Edna Black 


52 
GTI aa a a a let rm el at Se 


CANNED CORN 
To 9 cups corn (cut from cob) add 1 cup sugar, % cup salt (scant) and 
2 cups water. Boil 20 minutes. Stir frequently. Put in hot jars and seal. 


Soak several hours before using, changing water several times to remove 
excess salt. —Marion Shultz 


CABBAGE SCRAMBLE 
4 cups chopped cabbage 2 medium onions chopped fine 
14 green pepper chopped fine 4 medium tomatoes chopped fine 
% cup celery cut fine if desired 


Put in skillet with 1 T shortening or butter and simmer 30 minutes. 
Salt to taste. —Mrs. Alvin Combs 


BOSTON BAKED BEANS 


2 cups pea beans 1 tsp. salt 
2 T brown sugar 3 T molasses 
i rounded tsp. dry mustard 1 medium sized onion 


14 pound salt pork 
Wash beans well and boil until tender. Place beans in baking pot and 
add seasonings, placing salt pork and onion well down in beans. Keep 
slightly covered with liquid that the beans have been cooked in. Bake 8 
hours. —Mrs. P. W. Lane 


EGGPLANT FRITTERS 


1 large eggplant 1 egg 

% cup cake flour 2 tsp. baking powder 
1 small onion 14 tsp. salt 

14 tsp. pepper 14% tsp. thyme 

1 T margarine Shortening for frying 


Peal eggplant, boil until tender, drain and mash well. Cool. Add beaten 
ege yolk and mix well. Then beat in flour and baking powder, then the 
finely minced onion, salt and pepper and thyme, melted margarine and 
fold in beaten white of egg. Fry in 1 inch of fat in large frying pan which 
is very hot. Serve with grated cheese or cheese sauce.—Mrs. H. B. Howard 


BAKED PARSNIPS 


Peel and cut lengthwise medium sized parsnips. Place in baking dish, 
add a little water, seasoning and dot each piece with butter. Sprinkle gen- 
erously with sugar and bake until tender. —Mrs. Nicoletta Westergaard 


FRIED PARSNIPS 


Pare and slice lengthwise. Roll in flour and brown in butter. Pour 
enough water to cover bottom of pan and let simmer until done. 
—Mrs. Erna Paulsen 


SPANISH STRING BEANS 


1 green pepper, chopped 2 pounds green beans 
2 cups cooked tomatoes % cup tomato catsup 
1 clove garlic 1 large onion, chopped 
2 T bacon fat Salt 


Wash beans. Remove strings. Cut in small pieces. Brown onion and gar- 
lic in bacon fat. Add beans, cover closely, cook slowly until dry. Add toma- 
toes, catsup and green pepper. Season to taste. Cover and cook slowly until 
tender. 8 servings. —Mrs. Phillip D. White 


_Newton's Lunch. 
/ CHICKEN AND STEAK DINNERS\ 


Open5 P.M. - 1A.M. * Sunday 1-10P.M. 
Closed Monday 


GROCERIES, GASOLINE AND CABINS 
7 Days a Week 


~and Mrs. Ralph Newton;-Proprietors 
Phone 2096 Warrenton Junction 


Warrenton Meat Market 


if Phone 3751 


™ 


Larry Lenhard 
see 


Teague s 


BODY AND FENDER REPAIRING 
AUTOMOTIVE PAINTING 


John Teague, Proprietor 


3 Generations of Cooking Progress 


MONARCH RANGES 
SPEED - ECONOMY - TWIN EFFICIENCY 


Authorized Dealer 


or 
Monarch Ranges and Heaters 


Jenning's Furniture Co. 
at the Metropolitan Store 


Se ee oe 


CROHN- 
Economy 
Market KARSUN 


QUALITY MEATS “Our Aim Is to Satisfy’ 


MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR 


Phones 445-446 
514 Commercial St. Astoria, Ore. | 521 Commercial St. Astoria, Ore. 


COMPLIMENTS 


Hildebrand A. Puusti & Co. 
& Company 


“EVERYTHING IN 


FURNITURE - RANGES HARDWARE” 
RUGS 
465 Commercial Street Phone 841 Astoria, Ore. 
Astoria Oregon 
Art Needlecraft Ivar's 
Baby Shoppe Shoe Shop 
“Everything for the Baby”’ Astoria, Oregon 
HEMSTITCHING All Work Guaranteed 


594 Commercial Street 
Astoria, Oregon 118 - 11th St. Astoria, Ore. 


SHOES - HOSIERY - BAGS 
X-RAY SHOE FITTING 


COMPLIMENTS “Meet Me in Your Stocking Feet’’ 
bak. Maunula 
Peyton S Shoe Store 
Variety Store Nunn-Bush 


and Health Spot Shoes 
517 Commercial St. Astoria, Ore. 


————_——— ume 


MODE O' DAY 


567V¥2 COMMERCIAL ST. 
ASTORIA, OREGON 


Lovell Auto Co. 


EXPERT BODY AND FENDER WORK 


CADILLAC. - BUICK <=) CHEVROLET 


Fourteenth and Duane Phone 86 


_THE CLUB _\ 


Warrenton, Oregon” 


BILLIARDS - CARDS - DRINKS 


Henry and Art 
eee ee 


COMPLIMENTS OF 


Fisher Bros. Company . 


HARDWARE - INDUSTRIAL SUPPLIES 


Phone 1050 Astoria, Oregon 


a , 4 
Y 


Warrenton 


CabuGo: 


Phone 3501 


24-HOUR SERVICE 


Met's 
Barber Shop 
Courteous and Efficient Service 


Warrenton, Oregon 


Erickson 
Floral Co., Inc. 


Astoria, Oregon 


573 Commercial Phone 1047 


\ “Boat Yard | 
Noms TE MARINE SERVICE 


Ed Salmi, Prop. . 


i 


se Phone: Warrenton 2066 


Nace en roe 


STAUH'S 
MARKET 


GROCERIES AND MEATS 
E. A. Stauh, Prop. 


Hammond, Oregon 


WERNER'S 
BAKERY 


“The Home of Goodies”’ 


SPECIALTIES 
CAKES FOR ALL OCCASIONS 


W. A. Wuori, Prop. 
Phone 4306 


COMPLIMENTS OF >) 


— 
e 


ick and Katheri 
> Ford _ 


Warrenton’s Agent for the 
EVENING ASTORIAN-BUDG 
Lower Columbia’‘s 
Leading Newspap 


P. O. Box 18 


Phone 2552 


Watfrenton 
/Beauty Shop 


PERMANENT WAVING AND/ 
/ HAIR STYLING 7, 
f/f 


vs 
A Ha Anderson, Prop. Phone 2361 


4 


53 


et nc te ade ll ali bln te eel Nae A, hs cal ts Se 
PEAS AND SALMON 


1 can salmon 3 cups peas 


Butter baking dish, sprinkle with bread crumbs, put in layer of peas, 
then layer of salmon, sprinkle each layer with bread crumbs. Last put bits 
of butter on with bread crumbs. Bake 30 minutes. —Mrs. Erna Paulsen 


CORN FRITTERS 


% cup flour 1 tsp. baking powder 
% tsp. salt Pinch of sugar 
Pinch of paprika 4% cup corn, drained dry 
1 egg Scant 4% cup milk 
Sift dry ingredients together, add beaten egg and milk. Drop by spoon- 
fuls in hot fat, and brown on both sides. —Mrs. F. W. Preston 


PITTSBURG POTATOES 
6 medium potatoes, boiled, cooled 2 T flour 


and sliced Sprinkle of paprika 
2 cups milk, scalded 1 can pimento, sliced in small 
1% cups rich cream cheese, (cut pieces 

finely) Dash pepper 
1 tsp. salt 1 T butter 


To make cheese sauce: Boil milk, add cheese, blend flour and butter in 
warm bowl and add a little milk—then add to milk and cheese, cook until 
thick. Add salt and pepper. Grease casserole with butter—scatter onions, 
potatoes, pimentoes until all is used, cover with cheese sauce, sprinkle with 
paprika and bake in moderate oven 45 minutes until nicely browned. 

—Mrs. L. W. Spaulding 


CORN CASSEROLE ws 
1 pound sausage links or patties 3 T flour 
1% cups milk % tsp. salt 
lg tsp. pepper 1 cup cracker crumbs 
1 can whole kernel corn 2 T chopped green pepper 


Fry sausage 10 minutes. Measure 3 T sausage fat, add flour and stir in 
milk to form white sauce, season. Alternate layers of crumbs, corn, sauce 
and sausage in casserole. Sprinkle with green pepper. Cover with more 
crumbs mixed with 3 T sausage fat and top with 4 whole sausage. Bake 30 
minutes in 350 degrees oven. Serves 4. —Mrs. D. Hamilton 


Sy 
at 
os 


CORN TAMALE 
1 can yellow corn—run through 2 T red pepper 


collander Salt 
4% can tomatoes or 1 can Spanish 1 cup corn meal 
tomato sauce 1 T butter, melted 
1 onion and 1 clove garlic Pepper 
1 cup milk 


Bake in buttered pan or casserole and make the following sauce to 
serve over it. 


Sauce: 
1 T butter and add flour 1 T Worcestershire sauce 
3 cups milk 3 T catsup 


Add can of shrimp, crab or oysters, and 2 sliced hard cooked eggs. 
—Mrs. Willard Thorenson 


54 
oo ES EE 


DUTCH CABBAGE 

1 small head red cabbage 1 large sour apple 

1 T sugar 3 slices bacon 

1 small onion 

Dice bacon and onions and brown in iron skillet. Put in layer of cab- 

bage and % of apple, then balance of cabbage and apple, salt and pepper 
to taste. On top of all put 3 T vinegar and crumbs, let simmer until cabbage 
is tender. Do not stir while cooking. When done turn upside down on plat- 
ter and serve hot. —Mrs. Ida Fegles 


HARVARD BEETS 


Ys cup sugar 1 T cornstarch 
¥% cup vinegar % cup beet juice 
Lump of butter Salt and pepper 
Boil 3 minutes 
Pour over diced or sliced beets. —Vivian Zak 
® 


POWERHOUSE BEANS 
2 cups white beans, soaked over 

night. 

Drain off liquid. Cover with hot water, add 2 tsp. salt, % cup diced 
bacon, 1 small onion, sliced fine, 1 clove garlic. Simmer for 3 to 4 hours. 
These are delicious. —Mrs. Zell Wanker 


PARSNIP PUFFS 


5 parsnips 3 T milk 

2 T shortening, melted 1 tsp. salt 

Pepper 2 eggs 

2 T water % cup dried bread crumbs 


Cook parsnips in boiling salted water until tender. Drain and mash and 
add milk, shortening, salt and pepper, 1 egg, beaten. Cool. Shape into balls, 
roll in crumbs, dip in beaten egg diluted with water, then in crumbs. Fry 
in deep, hot fat until brown. Drain on unglazed paper. —Mrs. E. L. Watkins 


BAKED CORN : 
2 T shortening or butter Ly LT flour 


1 cup milk 2 cups cooked or canned corn 
i T sugar 1 tsp. salt 
¥% tsp. pepper 2 eggs 


Melt shortening, add flour and mix well. Add milk gradually and bring 
to boiling point, stirring cons’antly. Add corn, sugar, salt and pepper and 
heat thoroughly. Remove from fire, add well beaten eggs and pour into a 
greased baking dish. Bake at 350 degrees for 25 minutes, or until corn is 
firm. —Mrs. E. L. Watkins 


55 


: MEATS 


Don’t cook your meat in the same old way, 
Try something different for today. 


BAKED CHILI 


1 pound chopped beef 1 tsp. chili powder 

% tsp. paprika % tsp. salt 

2 T melted fat 1 egg, beaten 

2 T sreen pepper chopped 2 T onion, chopped 

2 cups chili beans or 1 can Kid- 2 cups tomatoes 
ney beans 2 tsp. salt 


Season the chopped beef with % tsp. salt and paprika, add egg and 
form into a flat cake about % inch thick. Place in greased baking dish. 
Bake for 10 minutes in hot oven—500 degrees. Heat fat in frying pan, add 
chopped onion and pepper and cook for 2 minutes. Add tomatoes, beans, 2 
tsp. salt mixed with chili powder. Bring to boil. Pour around meat and 
cock in slow oven 325 degrees—20 minutes. —Nancy Lee Lacey 


PORCUPINE BALLS 


1 cup uncooked rice 1 pound hamburger or ground beef 
4% small onion chopped 1% tsp. salt 

tg tsp. pepper 2 'T chopped green pepper 

1 cup water 2 cups cooked tomatoes 


Wash rice several times, drain well and mix thoroughly with beef, 
onion, salt and pepper. Shape into small balls. Combine green pepper, water, 
tomatoes, heat to boiling point and add meat balls. Cover tightly and sim- 
mer 1 hour or until rice is cooked. —Mrs. Eldora Tozier 


ITALIAN SPAGHETTI 


1 onion, sliced thin 1% pound chopped beef 
% pound mushrooms, chopped 1% cups water 

1 can tomato paste 1% T shortening 

2 T chopped green pepper % tsp. salt 


Fry onion, green pepper, mushrooms and meat in fat until a delicate 
brown, stirring constantly, add tomato paste, water and salt and cook 20 
minutes, Cook spaghetti in boiling water until tender. Drain. Serve on hot 
platter or pour sauce over spaghetti. —Mrs. A. N. Fenton 


WEINER STEW 
1 dozen weiners 2 onions 
1 can tomato sauce 4 T water 
4 slices bacon 
Cut up weiners and fry, add onions, chopped fine, diced bacon. Fry 


well done. Add tomato juice and water. Let simmer 15 minutes. 
—Mrs. L. B. Willener 


MEXICAN CHILI CON CARNE 


1% pound ground beef 1 pound chili beans 
; 1 clove garlic (optional) Salt and pepper 
1 to 2 tsp. chili powder 1 onion chopped 
i T fat 2 cups tomatoes or soup 


Soak beans overnight. Cook until tender. Brown beef in fat, then add 
chopped onion and garlic, add beans, tomatoes and seasonings. Cook until 
all flavors are blended—about 30 minutes. —Mrs. Eula Dunn 


56 
ries re a gga a aetna cc AA DT 


MEXICAN RICE 
8 T bacon drippings 1 clove of garlic 
1 cup rice 8 tomatoes 
Salt and pepper to taste 
Put drippings and garlic in heavy skillet, add washed rice and brown, 
stirring constantly. Add peeled, diced tomatoes and about 1 pint water or 
enough to cover rice. Let it boil. When the water has been all taken up by 
the rice add salt and pepper and more water. Cover closely for about 20 
minutes, adding more water if necessary. Should be quite dry for serving. 
—Mrs. Grace Magnuson 


SAUSAGE BISCUITS 


4% pound seasoned pork sausage 2 cups flour 
2 tsp. baking powder \% tsp. salt 
1 T shortening %, cup milk 
Mix dry ingredients, cut in fat, add milk. Knead lightly. Roli % inch 
thick. Cut into biscuits. Place thin sausage cakes between 2 biscuits, press 
edges together and rub tops with milk. Bake at 400 degrees—20 minutes. 
Sausage may also be added to dry ingredients and mixed in usual] biscuit 
method. —Mrs. G. R. Stuller 


MEAT CASSEROLE 


6 cups boiling water 2 cups cornmeal 

2 T fat 1 pound hamburger 
1 onion, chopped 1 small green pepper 
2 cups canned tomatoes 1 tsp. cumin seed 
Chili powder Salt and pepper 


Cook cornmeal] 15 minutes in boiling water. Brown hamburger, onion 
and pepper in fat. Add tomatoes, Season. Simmer 10 minutes. Line well oiled 
casserole with cornmeal mixture. Fill with meat mixture, cover with corn- 
meal, sprinkle paprika on top. Bake at 400 degrees—20 minutes. 

—Mrs. Dan Puckett 


CHICKEN PIE 


1 fryer or boiling hen 46 bunch parsley 

2 bunches carrots 1 No. 2 can peas 

1 large onion % tsp. poultry seasoning 
2 green peppers \% tsp. thyme 


% bunch celery 


Boil chicken until tender. Boil cubed carrots, diced celery (2 inches 
long), and chopped remaining vegetables and seasonings. Add peas and 
chicken broth. Bring to boil and add flour thickening. When thick and 
clear pour into baking dish and top with rich pie crust. Bake about 25 
minutes. —Mrs. Ward Nichols 


HAMBURGER CHOWDER 


3 T fat 1 medium onion, chopped 
1 pound hamburger 2 cups canned tomatoes 
2 medium carrots, diced % cup celery, diced 

% cup barley or rice 2 tsp. salt 

14 tsp. pepper 1% quarts water 


2 cups diced potatoes 


Melt fat, brown onion, add hamburger, blend well and brown evenly. 
Add tomatoes, carrots, celery, barley or rice and seasonings. Add water 
cover, simmer 1 hour. Add potatoes, cook until tender. Serve with French 
bread and green salad. —Mrs. James V, Neal 


57 


Pe SN 


SPANISH CASSEROLE 
2 pounds round steak, cut in cubes 2 onions, sliced 


1 clove garlic, minced 2 green peppers, shredded 
3 cups canned tomatoes 1 tsp. salt 

% tsp. pepper 2 T cornstarch 

1 T dark corn syrup 2 T salad oil 


% cup sliced stuffed olives 


Put oil in frying pan, add garlic, onions and peppers. Heat and add 
the meat rolled in cornstarch, add syrup and tomatoes, add salt and pep- 
per. Place in casserole, cover and bake 2 hours in moderate oven, add 
olives and serve with mashed potatoes. —Mrs. Rodricques 


KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN 


1 medium young chicken 1% cups flour 
6 tsp. salt Black pepper 
1% tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

1 cup milk 


Cut chicken in pieces for serving and steam until tender—dry and keep 
cool until time to fry. Make batter of other ingredients. Dip each piece of 
steamed chicken in batter and fry in hot deep fat (380 degrees) until gold- 
en brown. Serve hot. —Mrs. John Perry 


CHICKEN PAPRIKA 


Disjoint a 3 to 4 pound fryer. Chop finely 1 large onion, fry onion in 2 
tsp. shortening, fry until it turns yellow. Remove from heat and add 2 tsp. 
paprika, 4 tsp. pepper and mix well. Add chicken and 1 cup water. Mix 
well and cook on a slow fire. When about half done salt to taste and add 
medium size bell pepper, sliced. Cover pan and cook until tender. 

—Mrs. Anna Kiss 


EGG FOO YOUNG 


5 eges 1% eup sliced water chestnuts 
% cup finely chopped bacon or % cup shredded onion 
ham or any roasted meat 1 cup bean sprouts 


Beat all together until rather thick. Mould into balls, pour carefully into 
pan of hot frying fat or oil. Keep turning until both sides are quite brown— 
place in dish and pour over the gravy. Gravy: % cup broth or juice of 
meats, 1 T flour or cornstarch, 1 T Chinese molasses. Mix all and stir until 
smooth. —Josephine Wooden 


OVEN FRIED CHICKEN 


3-314 pound chicken 1 cup flour 

1 T salt 2 T water 

1 egg 1 cup bread crumbs 
% cup fat 


Cut chicken in serving portions, mix flour and salt. Beat egg with wa- 
ter, roll chicken in flour and then eggs and crumbs, brown in hot fat, put 


in baking dish, cover and let bake in oven 350 degrees—1 to 1% hours or. 


until tender. —Mrs. W. E. Martin 


CHOP SUEY 

1% pounds veal steak cubed and % pound pork steak cubed—brown in 
frying pan. 2 cups celery, chopped, and 2 big onions, chopped—fry in meat 
drippings. Mix together and add salt and pepper to season. Cover with wa- 
ter and thicken with 1 T flour. Add 1 T Chop Suey Sauce and 1 small can 
chopped mushrooms. Let simmer about 1 hour. —Mrs. W. K. Bjorkman 


58 
DAA? Fs 9 ets bd eS Et ® Shs PAS sd a Fae 


HUNGARIAN STUFFED CABBAGE 
i4% pounds ground beef % pound ground pork 
2 pounds spareribs or neck bones 2 eggs 


1 cup rice 1 tsp. paprika : 
1 onion sliced thin 1 clove garlic, chopped fine 
5 T salt % tsp. black pepper 


Z quarts tomatoes or puree 2 large heads cabbage 
5 pounds sauerkraut 
Wix beef, pork, eggs, salt, pepper and garlic and onions and saute’ with 
paprika in shortening. (Brown onions.) Then add rice which has been 
washed and fry with onions for 5 minutes. Add onions and rice to meat 
and mix well. Cut out core of cabbage and cover with hot water to soften 
cabbage leaves. Remove cabbage leaves carefully to avoid tearing. Remove 
about i5 large leaves, then take 1 T meat mixture for each leaf and roll 
loosely. Do not pack meat in hard balls—leave room for rice to swell. Use 
large enamel kettle—place few leaves of cabbage on the bottom and then 
as follows—2 strips of spare ribs and cover with sauerkraut, then rolled 
cabbage dumplings to cover sauerkraut, cover this layer with sauerkraut, 
pour 1 can tomatoes. Repeat layers of spare ribs, dumplings and sauer- 
kraut as above until all is used up. Pour more tomatoes on top. Cover kei- 
tle and cook on medium flame for 5 hours. Serve lower layer of cabbage 
first. Can be reheated several times. Keeps for 3 or 4 days. 
—Mrs. Rudolph L. Folk 


STUFFED PORK CHOPS 
6 double chops 4 T butter 
% tsp. Worcestershire sauce i% cups water 
,2 cups bread crumbs 1 smali onion 
Pepper to taste 3 T catsup 
Cut pocket in each chop. Make a dressing of crumbs and seasonings. 
Place dressing in pockets of chops. Brown. Place in roaster, cover with 
sauce made of water and catsup. Bake at 400 degrees—45 minutes. 
—Edith Warner 


LIMA BEANS AND SAUSAGE 


1 cup dried lima beans 
2'T brown sugar 
% pound sausage 


i tsp. salt 
2 cups tomato puree 
1 green pepper, chopped 


Soak beans overnight in water to cover. Simmer in same water next 
day. in a greased bean pot or baking dish put first a layer of beans, sprin- 
kle with salt and brown sugar. Moisten with part of puree. Pan fry sau- 


sage light brown, add bits of pepper 


with it over beans and puree. Top 


and bake at 3850 degrees—3 to 4 hours. Remove cover during last part of 


cooking. 


ONE DISH MEAL 


“1 pound ground beef 
% cup corn meal 
i tsp. dry mustard 
% cup milk 
% cup flour 


—Mrs. Edna Shoop 


2 T chopped onion ‘ 

1 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. chili powder Ne 
1 egg, beaten a 


Combine beef, onions, corn meal, flour and seasoning. Form into balls. 


Brown in 2 T shortening. Remov 
ening, blend, add 2 cups tomato 


of mashed potatoes in baking dish. § 
rika, put meat balls in center of rin 


20 minutes. 


e meat balls and add 2 T flour to short- 
juice. Cook until thickened. Place a ring 
prinkle with grated cheese and pap- 
g. Cover with thickened sauce. Bake 


—Blanche Pickering 


59 


A 


DINNER IN A DISH 


4 T shortening 2 eggs 

1% tsp. salt 4 medium tomatoes, sliced 

4% cup dry bread crumbs 1 pound hamburger 

1 medium onion, chopped 2 cups freshly cut, or whole kernel 
14 tsp. pepper corn 


2 green peppers sliced 


Put shortening in skillet and lightly fry pepper and onions for 3 min- 
utes. Add meat and blend thoroughly, add seasoning. Remove from heat, 
stir in eggs and mix well. Put 1 cup corn in greased dish, then half of meat 
mixture, then a layer of sliced tomatoes, then another layer of corn, meat 
mixture and tomatoes. Cover with bread crumbs and dot generously .with 
butter. Bake in moderate oven 350 degrees for 35 minutes. Serves 8. 

—Signe Koster 


MEAT LOAF 


4 slices bread 1 cup warm milk 

2 eggs, beaten Y% cup minced onion 
1 pound ground beef 4% pound ground pork 
1% pound ground veal 2 tsp. salt 


\% tsp. pepper 
Soften bread in milk, add eggs, onions, meat and seasonings. Mix thor- 
oughly. Form in greased pan, spread with 1 T salad oil, then spread with 
1 cup chili sauce or catsup. Dissolve a bouillion cube in water and pour 
around meat loaf or use % cup canned bouillon. Bake uncovered at 350 de- 
grees—1% to 2 hours. —Mrs. B. D. Peyton 


HAMBURG LOAF 


2 pounds hamburger 1% tsp. paprika 
2 cups cornflakes, ground bread J small onion 

or cooked macaroni % cup catsup 
1 can hot sauce 1% tsp. salt 


2 stalks celery, cut fine 


Stir all together, then put in baking dish and cook until done. 
—Mrs. Lewis Falconer 


BARBECUED SPARERIBS 


3 pounds spareribs 12 cup water 
%4 cup vinegar 1% cup butter 
4% cup chili sauce 3 T horseradish 
3 T Worcestershire sauce % tsp. salt—cayenne 
Wipe spareribs and crack bones across middle. Broil under low flame 
about 30 minutes. Basting with sauce. —Ann Nichols 


MEAT LOAF 
1% pounds ground round or ham- *%4 tsp. pepper 


burger Y% pound pork sausage 
% cup quick tapioca, uncooked % small onion, finely chopped 
2 cups canned tomatoes 2% tsp. salt 
Mix well. Bake in loaf 45 minutes. —Mrs. C. A. Norbeck 


TURKEY DRESSING 
3 quarts bread crumbs 4 eggs 
24 pound margarine 
Chop 6 pimentos, add salt, celery and pepper to taste and 2% cups 
broth. Heat oleomargarine in pan, break raw eggs in hot oleomargarine and 
stir fast, add to dressing. —Mrs. William Camm 


: Beane Se 
Ps STS ae 


60 - 
et da a el ec i pace al A Be a 


HUNTER STYLE DINNER 


1 large bunch celery 3 large onions 

% cup lard IT salt 

2% pounds fresh pork 2 cups canned tomatoes 
‘2 cups canned lima beans 2 cups cooked macaroni 


1 cup canned mushrooms 
Saute’ celery, onions until tender. Cut pork in small pieces. Cook until 


brown in % cup lard, add all together and cook for 30 minutes. 
—Mrs. William Camm 


BAKED PORK CHOPS 
Place pork chops in pan, salt and pepper. Put a slice of tomato and 
slice of onion on each chop and bake until tender and brown, about 45 


minutes to 1 hour. Make gravy from drippings if desired. 
—Mrs. Charles Marsh 


FLANK STEAK WITH DRESSING 

Prepare for cooking a flank steak. Trim edges. Season it with 1 tsp. 
salt, % tsp. paprika and % tsp. ginger (optional). Melt % cup butter or 
bacon ‘drippings, add and saute’ until brown, 2 T chopped onions, and add 
1 cup ‘bread crumbs, % tsp. salt and few grains paprika, 2 T chopped par- 
sley, 3 T chopped celery and 1 egg, beaten slightly. Spread this dressing 
over the steak, roll loosely and tie. : 

Heat in skillet 3 T fat. Sear steak on all sides. Place steak in casser- 
ole. Stir into the fat in skillet 2 T flour and add 1 cup water, 1 cup tomato 
juice and % tsp. salt. Pour this over steak. Bake at 250 degrees—1% hours. 
Keep tightly closed. Add more seasoning if desired. 4 servings.—Vivian Shoop 


LIVER LOAF . 


1 pound liver °4 cup rice 
1 quart milk 2 T butter 
2.cups raisins- 4 T syrup 
3 T sugar 1 tsp. salt 


Pinch of pepper 
While rice is boiling, grind liver, add milk. Melt butter in loaf pan. 
Combine boiled rice, liver, milk, raisins, syrup, salt and pepper. Pour in pan. 
Bake at 350 degrees 1 hour. When ready to serve pour remaining melted 
butter over loaf. Serves 8. —Mrs. W. A. Wuori 


SPAGHETTI AND MEAT DISH 


One package spaghetti boiled until tender in boiling salted water. Fry 
1 pound ground round steak in butter until brown. Add % cup chopped 
green pepper and %4 cup chopped onion, add and simmer until meat is well 
done, 1 small can whole kernel corn, 1 can tomato hot sauce, % T chili 
powder, salt, pepper and garlic salt to taste. 

Arrange drained spaghetti on a large platter, pile meat mixture in the 
center and cover the whole with grated cheese. Garnish with ripe olives. 
Serves 6. —Mrs. Allen H. Tetlow 


MUSHROOM STEAK 
1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 pound steak 
‘Salt and pepper 
Brown steak on both sides and season. Add sou 
: p and cook for 10 to 15 
minutes. Add 1 can hot water. Cover and put in slow oven for 30 cee 
Serve immediately. —Mrs. Murray Lavier 


61 
pr la al el lll a Riera aN Seana 


ROAST SPARERIBS 


1 onion 1 carrot 
% cup celery 2 sprigs parsley 
1 cup cooked rice 3 tsp. salt 


1 tsp. pepper 1 tsp. paprika 
” tsp. cloves 1 cup drained crushed pineapple 
2 cup raisins 2 cups fresh bread crumbs 

One long strip spareribs, tie together to form circle and stuff with the 
following: 

Chop together onion, carrot, celery and parsley; fry gently in a little 
salad oil until onions are yellow; add rice and spices and cook little longer; 
add the pineapple, raisins and bread crumbs; fill spareribs and bake 1% 
hours in moderate oven. —Mrs. T. Gebson 


MEATBALLS 


1 pound ground beef 
4 cup raw rice 
2 T catsup 


1 thick slice white bread soaked in 
water—don’t squeeze out water 
Dash of pepper — 


1 tsp. salt 
Mix all ingredients together, form into small cakes, sprinkle with flour 
and brown on both sides. Add about 1 cup water in which a bouillon cube 
has been dissolved. Cover pan and cook slowly for about 45 minutes. Add 
more water if necessary. Thicken gravy with flour. —Mrs. Nadine Knutson 


CHILI CON CARNE 


1 can tomatoes 

2 medium sized onions 

1 pound ground round steak 

1 tsp. chili pepper 1 T sugar 

3 T vinegar 1 clove garlic 

Cut bacon in small pieces and fry delicate brown, cut onion fine and 

brown, add beef and garlic, browning slightly, add beans and tomatoes, 
cook slowly 1 hour. Add vinegar and sugar —Mrs. Allen H. Tetlow 


3 cups kidney beans 
3 slices bacon 
% cup ground suet 


MEAT BALLS 

1 pound hamburger 1 cup grated cracker crumbs or 

% cup milk bread crumbs 

% green pepper 1 egg 

1 large onion, diced 1 tsp. salt 

1 can cream of mushroom soup 
Combine meat, crumbs, pepper, salt, and onions. Add beaten egg and 

milk. Shape into balls and fry until brown. Add 1 can cream of mushroom 
soup with about the same amount of water. More water makes thinner 
gravy. Let simmer for about 30 minutes. —Mrs. E. Turmi 


VEGETABLE STEW FOR 100 

3% pounds cooked, diced carrots 3% pounds cooked diced potatoes 
38 pounds cooked diced celery i No. 10 can wax beans 
1 No. 10 can peas 6 ounces sifted flour 
38 ounces sugar 1% ounces salt 
1% ounces pepper 1 No. 10 can tomatoes 
12 ounces butter or bacon fat 

Drain cooked carrots, potatoes and celery. Mix beans and peas. Drain. 


Combine all vegetables and add butter or fat. Heat thoroughly. 
—Mrs. P. W. Jameson 


~ 


62 
SR se en non cen 


MEAT PIE 

4 T cooking fat 

2 T chopped green pepper 

1 cup diced cooked meat 4 T flour 

2 cups milk or meat stock 14 cup diced cooked carrots 

Slowly brown vegetables and meat in fat, stirring constantly. Add flour 

slowly, stirring constantly, until brown. Add remaining ingredients. Heat 
thoroughly. Pour into shallow oiled baking dish. Cover with biscuits. Bake 
in hot oven (450 degrees) about 15 minutes. —Mrs. Jack Campbell 


3 T chopped onion 
% cup diced celery 


BARBECUED MEAT SAUCE 


1 medium onion 

1 T brown sugar 

Y% cup tomato catsup 

14 tsp. salt % tsp. pepper 

2 T vinegar 2 cups cooked tomatoes 

Saute’ finely diced onion in hot shortening until clear but not brown. 

Combine sugar and cornstarch and blend onion. Add remaining ingredients 
gradually, stirring constantly. Cook slowly until slightly thickened, about 20 
minutes, stirring frequently. Makes about 2 cups. —Mrs. Hoover 


1 T shortening 
1 T cornstarch 
% cup Worcestershire sauce 


ITALIAN SPAGHETTI 


1% pounds hamburger 

2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
14 cup green peppers 

1% cups diced onions 

\% tsp. tabasco sauce 


1 tsp. salt 

1 large clove garlic, chopped 

44 cup mushrooms 

2-6 ounce cans tomato sauce 

% cup chopped carrots and celery 


Heat hamburger until very brown, add tomato sauce and allow to sim- 


mer 5 to 10 minutes. Then add all other ingredients. Allow to simmer for ~ 


1 hour. Serves 5. —Mrs. A. D. Facchini 


BEEF, TOMATO, PEPPER AND GREEN BEANS (CHINESE STYLE) 


% pound round steak 1 T lard or shortening 

1 T cornstarch or flour i T sugar 

1 T soy sauce 1 tsp. salt 

2 cups water % cup finely sliced onion 

% cup finely diced green pepper 1 cup thinly sliced green beans 

4 fresh tomatoes, sliced 

Cut steak in long narrow strips, saute’ in hot melted fat until well 

browned, about 15 minutes. Combine cornstarch or flour, sugar, soy sauce, 
and salt, add water gradually to meat stirring constantly and cook until 
slightly thickened, about 5 minutes. Add vegetables, cook uncovered until 
well heated, about 5 minutes. Serve with steamed rice—Mrs. P. V. Garcia 


HAM LOAF 
1 package spaghetti 3 cups ground ham 
4% tsp. salt 3 strips of cooked bacon 


1 No. 1 can tomato soup 


1 egg 


1 small onion ¥% tsp. pepper 


Place layer of cooked spaghetti in baking dish. Combine ham chopped 
onions, beaten egg and seasonings. Place on top of the spaghetti cover ham 
mixture with rest of spaghetti, over the top pour the can of tomato soup 
mixed with 1 cup water and the chopped bacon. Bake in moderate oven 
30 minutes. —Mrs. Lela Smothers 


*, 


63 


SHEPHERDS PIE 


2 cups cold beef ‘ 4 cups mashed potatoes 
1% cups brown gravy 3 T hot milk 
Cut meat in small pieces and mix with gravy. Place meat into deep dish 
and cover with potatoes. Dot with butter and brown in 400 degrees oven 
for 20 minutes. —Mrs. Lela Smothers 


ROULON 


Cut about 1 pound round steak, which has been pounded well with 
flour, salt and pepper, into about 3 inch squares. On each put 1 or 2 slices 
of onion and a slice of bacon. Roll the meat, with onion and bacon inside, 
and fasten with skewers or string. Brown in hot grease. Add 1 cup water, 
cover and simmer for about 2 hours; adding water when needed. Remove 
meat and use liquid for gravy. —Mrs. Lawrence Olney 


SAUCE FOR SPAGHETTI 


2 chopped onions 3 T salad oil 

14 pound round steak 1 No. 2% can tomatoes 

2 fresh tomatoes, peeled 1 small can mushrooms, drained 
¥2 tsp. salt ¥e tsp. pepper 

1 small clove garlic, grated Parmesian cheese 


Brown the onion in hot salad oil in a large skillet, add ground round 
and brown. Add the canned and fresh tomatoe> and the mushrooms. Crush 
the garlic with salt and pepper and add. S’.ner all together for about 
2 hours. —Mrs. Willard Thorenson 


MACARONI AND CHEESE 


1 cup cooked macaroni 1 cup soft bread crumbs 
1 tsp. chopped onion 1 cup grated cheese 

1% cups milk 3 eggs, beaten 

1 tsp. chopped green pepper 1 T butter 


Salt, pepper and paprika 
Combine all ingredients, season to taste, pour in to well greased baking 
dish. Bake in moderate oven for 45 minutes. —Mrs. Floyd A. Smith 


GARDEN ROAST 


1% pounds flank steak 2 T shortening 

6 medium potatoes, peeled 2 cups onions, peeled 
1 bunch carrots, sliced 144 tsp. salt 

Pepper Stuffing 


1 cup boiling water 
Spread steak with stuffing and roll and tie up. Brown in shortening and 
put in baking pan and add seasoning and water. Cover. Bake in slow oven 
for 1 hour. Add vegetables and bake until tender. Remove cover for last 


10 minutes to brown vegetables. 
Stuffing: Fry 1 onion in 2 T shortening and add 2 cups soft bread 
crumbs, 3 T warm water, % tsp. salt, pepper and sage.—Mrs. James Burke 


CHIPPED BEEF WITH NOODLES 


2 T butter 2 cups water 

1 medium sized onion, minced *% pound dried beef, shredded 
2 T chopped pimento 3 T chopped green pepper 

4% cup mushrooms 1 cup chopped celery 

% cup mushroom liquid 2 cups dried noodles 

% tsp. pepper 2 bouillon cubes 


Place 2 T butter in skillet, add shredded beef and onion, brown slightly. 
Add remaining ingredients. Cover as soon as steam escapes freely, turn heat 
to warm. Cook for 50 minutes. —Mrs. Alta Irvin 


64 
pot ee ee a A a eo ee ee ee ee eS 


CORNED BEEF SPOON BREAD 


% cup cornmeal 1 egg, slightly beaten 
2 T chopped celery 1 T chopped parsley (optional) 
¥% (12 oz.) can corned beef or can- 1 tsp. chopped onion 

ned pork and ham luncheon 3 slices bacon 


meat %4 cup water 
% tsp. salt \% tsp. pepper 
1 cup milk 


Mix together in saucepan, corn meal, parsley, celery, onion, 2 strips of 
bacon, (chopped), milk and water. Boil for 3 minutes until mixture is thick- 
ened, stirring constantly. Add meat (chopped), egg and seasoning. If you 
have any left over vegetables, they may be included. Pour into greased, me- 
dium sized casserole. Cut remaining strip of bacon in inch pieces, arrange 
on top. Bake at 375 degrees for 35 minutes. Serves 4 or 5. , 

—Mrs. George Smith 


SOUTHERN CORN BREAD DRESSING 


1 cup sifted flour 3 tsp. baking powder 
1 tsp. salt 1 cup yellow corn meal 
2 T melted shortening or bacon 1 cup milk 

fat 2 beaten eggs 


Sift dry ingredients, add liquids and mix only enough to combine. Pour 
into greased pan, bake in hot oven 20 minutes until browned. When cooled 
break into pieces, season with salt, pepper, 1 chopped onion, 2 stalks chopped 
celery or a few dried celery leaves, sage to taste, butter size of walnut, 
moisten with hot water or broth made from simmering gizzard and heart 
of fowl. Stuff bird. This dressing will not be soggy. —Vergie Magnuson 


Pickles, Preserves and Relishes 


DILL PICKLES 


2 quarts fresh, clean cucumbers 2 heads dill 
3 T salt 1 cup vinegar 
3 garlic cloves, cut fine 2 T mixed whole spice 
Pack cucumbers in % gallon jars, sprinkle chopped dill heads, garlic, 
salt and spices while filling jar, add vinegar and fill jar with cold water. 
Shake daily until salt is dissolved. Use after 2 weeks. Sometime there is 


leakage while fermenting. —Mrs. W. E. Kindred 
PICCALILLI 

8 quarts green tomatoes 12 red peppers 

12 green peppers 1 quart small onions 

1 clove garlic (optional) 3 quarts cider vinegar 

7 cups sugar % cup salt 

1 cup mustard seed 3 T celery seed 

1 T cinnamon 1 T powdered allspice 


Wash, stem and quarter tomatoes and peppers. Peel an u i 
Grind with medium blade all vegetables. Drain. Place in irae ae jae 
2 quarts vinegar and boil uncovered 30 minutes. Drain vegetables and dis- 
ecard liquid. Return to kettle and add remaining ingredients, simmer un- 
covered 3 minutes. Pack hot in jars and seal. —Mrs, Faye Clem 


—_—_—_—_—__—n nk ee aa 


GREEN TOMATO MINCEMEAT 


12 ground green tomatoes 9 ground apples 
1 pound brown sugar 1 cup molasses 
1 cup vinegar 1 T cloves 

1 T cinnamon 1 T nutmeg 

1 T ginger 1 T salt 


2 pounds raisins 


Combine all ingredients and cook for 45 minutes, Pour in jars and seal 


hot. —Mrs. Margaret Norris 


FRENCH PICKLE (GREEN TOMATO RELISH) 
1 peck green tomatoes, chopped 
fine 4 green peppers 
4 onions % cup salt 


Stir thoroughly and let stand overnight. Drain. Boil 5 minutes in quart 
of vinegar and 2 quarts water. Drain. Boil 20 minutes in 1 quart vinegar 
with 1 cup mustard seed, 1 T cloves, cinnamon, black pepper and 2 pounds 
sugar. Pack hot and seal in jars. —Mrs. Forrest LaBeck 


SWEET RELISH 


24 large green tomatoes 8 onions 
6 green peppers 6 red peppers 
Grind medium, sprinkle with % cup salt, mix and let stand 2 hours. 


Drain well. Put in large kettle and add the following: 


4 cups vinegar 4 cups sugar 
3 tsp. celery 3 tsp. mustard 


Boil 15 minutes. Seal hot. Yields about 7 pints.—Mrs. Charles Teantcon 


PEAR MARMALADE 


2 dozen medium pears 1 small jar marchino cherries ,and 
1 large can crushed pineapple juice re 
3 large oranges 8 cups sugar 


Peal pears and cut in small pieces, or grind, with oranges (rind and all). 
Combine with pineapple and cook in open kettle slowly 45 minutes, add 
sugar and cook until] thick, stirring frequently. Add cherries and juice and 
cook 15 minutes more. Seal. —Mrs. Valdemar Pedersen 


PEPPER HASH 


1 medium head cabbage 6 green peppers 
6 red peppers 6 large onions 
_% cup salt 
Chop all together—add salt, let stand overnight, drain well. Boil the 
following and let get cold—1 quart vinegar, 1 pint sugar, 1 T celery seed, 
1 T mustard seed. Mix thoroughly with vegetables and seal in jars at once. 
—Mrs. Donald C. Carter 


SANDWICH PICKLES 


1 quart sliced cucumbers 1 medium onion, sliced 

% cup salt 2 quarts water 

1 pint cider vinegar 1 cup medium brown RUSE 
1 tsp. mustard seed % tsp. celery seed 


1 T turmeric powder 
Dissolve salt in water and pour over vegetables, let stand 3 hours. 
Drain, add spices, sugar and vinegar, bring to boiling point and add vege- 
tables. Stir well. Seal. —Mrs. W. T. Johnson 


66 
ROSPHAANe cnc by 5s he Weare, | EE en 


CORN SALAD 


12 ears corn 1 quart chopped cabbage 
12 medium onions 3 green peppers 
i T ground mustard 28 Sf celery seed 
%, tsp. turmeric 1 quart vinegar 
2 cups sugar Salt to taste 
Cut corn from cob and mix all ingredients together, cook 25 minutes, 
seal in hot jars. —Mrs. Gus Dahlquist 


SWEET PICKLES 

300 small cucumbers—wash, sprinkle % cup salt on them and then 
cover them with boiling water. Let stand over night. Drain thoroughly, put 
in a stone jar and sprinkle over them—4 T dry mustard, 4T sugar and 4T 
salt and cover with good cider vinegar. Weigh out 6 pounds sugar and each 
morning put in 2 handfulls and stir the pickles well. Continue until the 
sugar is all used up. Tie % cup pickling spice—whole in bag and put in 
when you first cover them with vinegar. Seal if desired, but it is not 
necessary. —Mrs. Ruth Hensley 


DILL PICKLES 

Brine: 1% quarts vinegar 

3 quarts cold water 1 cup salt 

Put flower part of dill weed in quart jar blossom end down, having 

first split the stem—to allow flavor to seep out better. Add 1 tsp. pickling 
spice and 2 cloves garlic. (Do not cut garlic cloves). Then fill jar with good 
firm cucumbers (3 or 4 inch cukes) and add brine to cover. It is well to 
soak cucumbers in cold water over night or for several hours before pack- 
ing to be sure they are firm. This makes a crunchy pickle. Shake jars 
once a day for 6 days. —Mrs. Randi Salo 


DILL PICKLES 


To each jar add 3 cubes garlic and a generous amount of dill. Make 
solution of 1 scant cup of salt, 1 quart vinegar, 3 quarts water, bring to a 
boil, pour over cucumbers and seal. Let stand 6 weeks.—Mrs. Delia Christy 


END OF GARDEN PICKLES 


1 cup sliced cucumbers 1 cup chopped sweet pepper 

1 cup chopped cabbage 1 cup sliced onion 

1 cup chopped green tomatoes 1 cup chopped carrots 

1 T celery seed 1 cup green string beans cut in 
1 cup chopped celery inch pieces 

2 cups vinegar 2 T mustard seed 

2 T turmeric 2 cups sugar 


Soak cucumbers, peppers, cabbage, onions and tomatoes in salt water 
overnight (4% cup salt to 2 quarts water). Drain. Cook carrots and string 
beans until tender; drain well. Mix soaked and cooked vegetables with re- 
maining ingredients and boil 10 minutes. Place into sterilized jars. Seal at 


once. —Mrs. Katherine Blake 


DILL PICKLES 


Pour boiling hot water over cukes and let cool. Pack in clean jars with 
plenty of dill and 1 clove of garlic to each quart. Pour this hot vinegar in 
jars and seal: 3 quarts vinegar, 3 quarts water and 1 cup salt. 


—Mrs. Norma Wadsworth 


67 


SS 


RHUBARB RELISH 


4 quarts rhubarb 1 quart onions 

5 cups sugar 1 pint brown vinegar 
1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 tsp. cloves 1 tsp. allspice 


1 tsp. ginger 
Boil gently for 1 hour or until mixture thickens. Put in jars and seal. 
—Sally Brandt 


EREAD AND BUTTER PICKLES 


8 large white onions 25 to 30 medium sized cucumbers 
2 large green peppers % cup salt 

5 cups cider vinegar 5 cups sugar (214 pounds) 

2 'T mustard seed 1 tsp. turmeric 


1% tsp. cloves 
Wash cucumbers and slice as thin as possible. Chop onions and peppers. 
Combine with cucumbers and salt. Let stand 3 hours and then drain. Com- 
bine vinegar, sugar, and spices in large kettle and bring to a boil. Add 
drained cucumbers and heat thoroughly but do not boil. Pack while hot 
into sterilized jars and seal. —Mrs. Lynn Anderson 


CHOW CHOW 
4 quarts tomatoes 2 quarts cabbage 
1% quarts onions 
Grind and cook in 2 cups vinegar and 1 quart water (cook lightly). 
Drain and cook in following syrup: 


2 pounds sugar % gallon vinegar 
2 T white mustard seed 1 T celery seed 
1 tsp. black pepper 1 tsp. turmeric powder 
Y% tsp. cloves 1 cup salt 
Can be sealed or left in crock. When drained dry mix with any salad 
dressing, it makes a good relish. —Mrs. H. B. Howard 


SWEET DILL PICKLES 

For these use large cucumbers. Wash cukes, cut (do not peel) and 
slice crosswise about %4 inch thick, sprinkle with salt and let stand 2 or 3 
hours. Drain well. To 1% gallons sliced cukes use % gallon vinegar and 
enough sugar to suit taste. Tie in a cloth % tsp. cayenne pepper, 1% tsp. 
dry mustard, 1 tsp. mace, 2 tsp. each of celery seed and cinnamon. Put 
spice bag and cukes in vinegar and simmer (do not boil) until all are 
heated through. Put a small bunch of dill in bottom and top of jar and 
seal while hot. —Mrs. J. W. Drake 


LINGBERG RELISH 
2 medium cabbages 8 carrots 
12 medium onions 4 red peppers 
4 green peppers 
Grind all together and add % cup salt and let stand 2 hours. Drain 
water off. 


Add: 
6 cups sugar 1 tsp. celery seed 
1 tsp. mustard seed 3 pints vinegar 


Mix all together. This needs no cooking or sealing. Very good. 


68 
so TS CD eR EE ald Re ot A en 


BREAD AND BUTTER PICKLES 


50 cucumbers 10 small onions, sliced 
3% cups sugar 3% pints vinegar 
3 tsp. mustard seed 3 tsp. celery seed 
3 tsp. dry ground ginger % tsp. turmeric 
Slice cukes and let stand with salt sprinkled on them 1 hour. Drain and 
cook until tender, about 5 minutes. —Mrs. R. D. Summers 


CHUNK PICKLES 


Syrup: Alum size of pea 
8 cups sugar 1 quart vinegar 
2 T pickling spices 2 T salt 


1 gallon cucumbers, cut off each end of cucumbers, put in jar, cover 
with boiling water for 4 days. Pour off each day, wipe off pickles, cut each 
pickle in one inch pieces. 

Boil syrup each day for 4 days. On fourth day pack chunks in jars, 
pour over boiling syrup and seal. —Mrs. Elmer Farrell 


SO GOOD PICKLES 
Boil well the following ingredients and pour over cucumbers and seal 
at once: 
1 quart vinegar 1 cup sugar 
% cup water 14 cup salt 
Soak cucumbers (6 inches long or more) in cold salt water for 5 hours. 
Cut lengthwise without paring. Pack closely into jars with 3 thick stalks 
of celery and 3 slices onion to each jar. Drain off any juice after packing. 
—Mrs. Richard Green 


CRABAPPLE HONEY 
3 cups ground cored crabapples 3 cups sugar 
% cup crushed pineapple Cook fast until thick. 
—Mrs. F. W. Preston 


TOMATO AND PEACH CONSERVE 
24 large tomatoes. Peel and remove seeds with fingers. Cut up (not to 
fine). Add 4 peach pits, boil 30 minutes. Add 18 cups sugar and boil about 
20 minutes. Add 12 peaches, peeled and cut fine. Boi] 30 minutes more. Add 
1 can crushed pineapple and juice of 1 or 2 lemons. Cook about 10 minutes. 
Just before removing from fire add 1 tsp. vanilla. Seal in jars. 
; —Mrs. Leland Swanson 


CORN RELISH 


1 dozen ears corn 1 head cabbage 

1 dozen sweet peppers Onions, if desired 
Salt to taste 1 pint mustard 

1 pint vinegar 1 pint brown sugar 


Make a dressing of mustard, vinegar and sugar. Bring to boil, add in 
other ingredients, chopped (corn cut off cob). Simmer or boil 30 minutes. 
Delicious with meat. Also makes a good sandwich spread. —Willia Culp 


SOCIETY CHIPS 


14 large cucumbers—pour boiling water over 4 mornings. 5th morning 
slice about % inch thick. Make a syrup of 1 quart vinegar, 8 cups sugar, 
2 T salt (scant) and % cup pickling spices. Bring to a boil and pour over 
hot for 3 mornings. On 4th morning, bring syrup to boil, drop in cucumbers 
and let come to a boil. Seal. Makes 6 or 7 pints. —Mrs. Florence Groat 


69 


GOOSEBERRY JAM 


1% cups gooseberries—cover with water and add 1 T soda. Let stand 
3 minutes. Pour water off and wash well. Add 3 cups sugar to berries and 
1 cup water and boil 15 minutes. Seal hot. —Mrs. George Smith 


MiINCEMEAT 


4 pounds lean beef, boiled and 2 T nutmeg 

chopped fine 1 pound chopped suet 
8 large apples 2 pounds currants 
3 pounds raisins 1 pound brown sugar 
¥% pound citron, cut fine 2 quarts sweet cider 
1 quart molasses 1 T salt 
1 pint boiled cider 1 T mace 
1 T pepper 4 'T cinnamon 
1 T allspice 1 T cloves 


Mix ali together thoroughly and bring to boiling point and seal. 
—Mrs. Esther Birkholz 


Puddings and Desserts 


A dainty pudding is surely a delight 
Try one of these for dinner tonight. 


UPSIDE DOWN BERRY COBBLER 

2% cups cooked berries (black, logan or boysenberries.) 

Batter: Sift together 1 cup sifted flour, 2 tsp. baking powder and % 
teaspoon salt. 

Cream ‘4 cup butter or margarine and % cup sugar, add dry ingredi- 
ents with % cup milk. Beat smooth after each addition. Spread batter in 
greased round cake plate or casserole. Put drained berries on top of batter, 
sprinkle with % cup sugar and pour juice over all. Bake in hot oven (375 
degrees) for 30 to 40 minutes. Serve warm with cream. —Marion Shultz 


FUDGE PUDDING 


1 cup flour % cup milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 2 T melted shortening 

\% tsp. salt 1 cup chopped walnuts 

*% cup sugar 1 cup brown sugar, firmly packed 
51%4 T cocoa 1% cups hot water 


Sift flour, measure; sift again with baking powder, salt, white sugar 
and 1% T cocoa. Add milk, shortening and nuts, mix well. Spread into a 
well greased cake pan (8x8x2.) Combine remaining cocoa and the brown 
sugar, sprinkle over top. Pour the hot water onto tablespoon allowing to 
overflow onto mixture. Bake in moderate oven 45 minutes. Serve warm with 
or without cream. Serves 8 to 12, —Mrs. L. D. Neal 


COFFEE BAVARIAN 


¥% package gelatin 1 tsp. vanilla 
¥% pint milk 34 cup sugar 
1 pint whipping cream 1 cup strong coffee 


Cover gelatin with cold water and soak % hour, add boiling coffee 
(strained) and sugar, stir until sugar and gelatin are dissolved, cool, add 


milk and whipped cream. Mix thoroughly, add vanilla. Stir occasionally 
until set. —Mrs. George Warren 


70 
Me 


CARMEL DUMPLINGS 


% cup sugar 1% to 2 cups flour 
1 cup thin cream or milk 1 tsp. baking powder 
Mix and drop by spoonfuls into boiling carmel sauce made of the fol- 
lowing: , 
1% cups white sugar 2 cups boiling water 
¥% tsp. salt 2 T butter 


Carmelize % cup sugar, add boiling water, butter, salt and remaining 
sugar. Cook until sugar is dissolved, which will require about 10 minutes. 
Bake the dumplings in sauce about 20 minutes. Cool. —Mrs. Lloyd Walker 


DATE PUDDING 


1 cup flour Pinch salt 
1 cup white sugar 1 cup chopped dates 
1 tsp. baking powder 1 cup chopped walnuts 


Mix all together and add 1 teaspoon vanilla and 1 cup milk, stir well. 
Dissolve 3 cups brown sugar in 3 cups cold water, pour over mixture. Bake 
45 minutes. —Mrs. Floyd Plummer 


SUET PUDDING 


1 cup ground suet 1% tsp. cinnamon 

% cup boiling water 1% tsp. cloves 

1 cup ground raw potatoes 1 tsp. nutmeg 

1 cup raw carrots ground % tsp. allspice 

1 cup raisins 14 tsp. soda 

1% cups flour 1 tsp. baking powder 
1 cup sugar 2 eggs 


Mix all together and pack in cans to steam. Time 2% hours. 
—Mrs. Florence Baldwin 


CREAM PUFFS 


% cup shortening % tsp. salt 

1 cup boiling water 4 eggs 

1 cup sifted flour 

Bring shortening and water to boil in saucepan, sift flour with salt, add 

‘to water and beat until mixture is thick and smooth and comes away from 
sides of pan. Remove from fire, add eggs one at a time, beating thoroughly 
after each addition. Drop from tablespoons on greased sheet. Bake in very 
hot oven (450 degrees) 10 minutes, then reduce heat to (400 degrees) for 25 
minutes. Cool. Fill each puff with cream filling and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. —Mrs. I. Nygaard 


APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 


4% cup quick cooking tapioca % cup sugar 
2 cups boiling water 1% tsp. nutmeg 
1% tsp. salt 2 T butter 
4 medium apples Grated rind of % lemon or orange 


Cook tapioca in boiling water (salted) until clear, add butter, Jemon 
rind, sugar and nutmeg. Peel and core apples. Slice half in baking dish and 
pour half of tapioca mixture over. Repeat. Bake in moderate oven until 
apples are tender. Serve warm or cold with cream. —Mrs. Vern Hensel 


LEMON PUDDING 


Cream—1 cup sugar, 2 T butter and 2 T flour. Add—1 cup milk, 2 
beaten egg yolks, juice of 1 lemon. Fold in beaten egg whites. Bake in wa- 
ter at 375 degrees for 45 minutes. —Mrs. F. M. Wilson 


71 
a eeeseseseeeS—S—Oese 


~~ 
APPLE TORTE 
9 or 10 apples 1 tsp. cinnamon 
% cup cream or canned milk Sugar to sweeten apples 


Peal apples and slice into shallow baking dish. Pour cream over and 
sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar. Top with the following: 1% cups Bis- 
quick mix, % cup sugar and % cup butter. Mix together as for pie crust, 
spread evenly over apples and sprinkle thinly with Wheaties. Bake in mod- 
erate oven about 40 minutes. Serve with whipped cream or ice cream. 

—Mrs. L. P. Christensen 


BANANA WAFER DESSERT 


1 pound ice cream wafers 2 egg yolks 
°4 cup butter 1 pint whip cream 
1 cup powdered sugar 3 large bananas 


Roll the wafers into fine crumbs, spread % of them in bottom of square 
pan. Cream egg yolks, butter and sugar, spread on top of wafers. Slice ba- 
nanas and lay on top. Lightly mash in with fork. Spread on whipped cream 
and add rest of wafers. Cool overnight. Serves 12. —Mrs. E. R. Baldwin 


APPLE PAN DOWDY 
1 quart peeled and sliced apples 1 cup brown sugar 


Y% cup flour 1 tsp. salt 
1 T vinegar “ cup water 
1 T margarine 1 tsp. vanilla 


Placge apples in well greased pie plate. Mix sugar, flour and salt in quart 
saucepan, add vinegar, and water, stir well. Cook over low heat until thick, 
add vanilla, butter and pour this syrup over apple slices. 

Topping: 1 cup flour, % tsp. salt, 2 tsp. baking powder, 2% T shorten- 
ing, % cup milk. Sift dry ingredients twice, cut in fat, add milk and stir 
only until flour mixture is wet. Drop by spoonfuls on apple mixture. Bake 
at 400 degrees—about 35 minutes. —Ruby Davis 


PINEAPPLE RICE PUDDING 

1 package butterscotch pudding 2 cups milk 

42 cup cooked rice % cup crushed pineapple 

% tsp. salt 

Place pudding powder in saucepan and add milk gradually, stirring 

constantly. Place over medium flame and cook until mixture comes to a 
boil and is thick. Remove from fire, add rice, pineapple and salt. Pour into 
sherbert glasses and chill. —Mrs. Benton Young 


APPLE DUMPLINGS 


2 cups sugar % cup milk 

¥% tsp. cinnamon 2 cups water 

44 cup butter % tsp. nutmeg 

2 cups flour 6 apples (medium) 
2 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. salt 


% cup shortening 
Combine sugar, water, cinnamon, nutmeg and cook 5 minutes. Pare and 
core apples. Sift flour, salt and baking powder, cut in shortening. Add milk 
all at once, stir just until flour is moistened. Roll % inch thick. Cut six 
five inch squares. Place one apple on each square, sprinkle generously with 
additional sugar and spices, dot with butter. Fold corners, pinch edges. 
Place 1 inch apart in greased baking pan. Pour over sauce. Bake in mod- 


erate oven (375 degrees) 35 minutes. Serve hot with cream. 
—Mrs. James V. Neal 


72 
IT LL CL 


a 
LEMON MERINGUE BREAD PUDDING e 
1 cup sugar 4 T soft butter 
14g tsp. salt 1 tsp. grated lemon rind 
% cup lemon juice 2 eggs ? 
¥% cup milk ; 2 cups bread crumbs (soft or dried) 


4 T confectioner’s or white sugar 
Cream butter and sugar, add salt, rind, juice, yolks, milk and crumbs. 
Stir well and bake 30 minutes, in buttered baking dish in moderate oven. 
Add confectioner’s sugar to whites and beat until creamy. Spread over 
pudding and bake 10 minutes in moderate slow oven.—Mrs. John J. Smiles 


» 


APPLE CRUNCH » 
Arrange in 9 inch pan 4 medium sliced apples and seasoned with % cup 

sugar, % tsp. cinnamon and pinch of salt. Top this with the following: 1 
cup cooking oatmeal, % cup flour,#% cup brown sugar, % cup butter. Com- 
bine oatmeal, sugar, and flour and cut in butter. Sprinkle this mixture over 
apples. Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees) 35 to 40 minutes. Serve warm 
with cream. —Mrs. Ralph Nelson 
APPLE CRISP hs 

6 apples, sliced 1 cup sifted flour nia 

4% to 1 cup sugar 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 egg Ss 1% cup melted shortening 


% tsp. cinnamon 
Place apples in greased baking dish. Mix flour, sugar, baking powder 
and unbeaten egg together with fork until crumbly and sprinkle over apples. 
Pour melted and cooled shortening over all, sprinkle with cinnamon. Bake 
at 350 degrees—30 to 40 minutes. —Mrs. Dean Chamberlain 


DATE SOUFFLE 


1 cup sugar 1 cup walnuts 

1 cup dates, chopped 1 T milk 

4 T flour 1 tsp. baking powder 
Pinch of salt 3 eggs, beaten well 


Add sugar, milk, flour and baking powder sifted together to eggs, add 
dates and nuts. Bake in moderate oven in large loaf pan. Cut in squares 
and serve with whipped cream. —Mrs. W. K. Bjorkman 


PINEAPPLE PUDDING 
1 cup pineapple juice 1 cup orange juice 
Heat and pour over 30 to 35 marshmallows and let stand until jellied. 
Fold in % pint whipped cream. Measure cream before whipping. Add nuts 


if desired. Line dish with crushed vanilla wafers, pour pudding over and 
sprinkle top with wafers. Let stand in refrigerator overnight. 


—Mrs. Bernice Kindred 


FRESNO PUDDING 


1 cup flour 24 cup sugar 
1% tsp. baking powder % tsp. salt 
1 cup seedless raisins % cup milk 


Sift flour, sugar, baking powder and salt, add raisins and milk and 
spread the batter in buttered baking dish. 1 small can crushed pineapple 
may be used instead of raisins and milk, 


Heat together: 2 cups water, 1 cup brown sugar and 2 T butter. When 
sugar is dissolved pour syrup over the batter and bake in moderate oven 
30 minutes. Serve warm. With cream if desired. —Mrs. Bern Shultz 


73 


MAPLE-NUT SPONGE 
1 envelope gelatin 
~1% cups hot milk 

1 cup maple syrup 
\% tsp. salt 


oA 


‘4 cup cold water 

2 eggs 

1% tsp. vanilla 

% cup chopped nuts 


Add hot milk to slightly beaten egg yolks and cook over boiling water 
until the mixture thickens. Remove from fire. Pour cold water into bowl 
and sprinkle gelatine on top. Add to hot mixture and stir until dissolved, 
then add maple syrup and salt. Cool and when mixture begins to congeal 
fold in stiffly beaten egg whites, vanilla and nuts. Turn into serving glasses 
and chill. Serve garnished with whipped cream. Makes a good pie filling— 
pour into baked shell and top with whipped cream. —Mrs. Liona McKay 


MOCK STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 


1 cup raw cranberries, ground 1 cup grated raw apple 
1 cup crushed pineapple 1 cup sugar 


Mix all together and use for shortcake filling. Serve with whipped 
cream. —Mrs. Bern Shultz 


AMBROSIA PUDDING 


Dissolve 1 T gelatin in % cup cold water and stir over heat until well 
dissolved. Remove from heat, add % cup cold water, cool. Add pinch salt 
to 4 egs whites, beat stiff, add gelatine slowly, add 1 cup sugar and flavor- 
ing. Divide in 3 parts and tint each differently. Put layers together with 
chopped nuts. Chill, serve with whipped cream. —Mrs. Kenneth Doney 


MOLDED PLUM PUDDING 


1 package lemon gelatin 

Juice of 1 lemon 

¥% cup sugar 

1 cup grape nuts 

1 cup raisins 

1% cup chopped citron 
Mix and set to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 


1 pint boiling water 
1 tsp. vanilla 

Pinch of salt 

1 cup chopped apples 
14 cup nuts 


—Mrs. Ben Waterhouse 


RUBY POACHED PEARS 


6 pears 
1% cups boiling water 
1 cup sweet red wine 
Wash pears, add to boiling water, simmer 20 minutes—until tender, but 
not soft. Sauce: Combine sugar and % cup water, boil 2 minutes. Add wine. 
Drain pears, core from blossom end, leave stem intact. Place pears in shal- 
low baking dish, pour over wine mixture and bake at 350 degrees—15 min- 
utes. Let cool in wine mixture. —Mrs. Otis B. Keyser 


% cup water (cold) 
146 cup sugar 


SUET PUDDING 


1 cup sugar 

2 cups dry bread crumbs 
16 tsp. soda 

% tap. salt 

1% cup ground nuts 


1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 egg 

1 cup raisins 

1% cup ground suet , 
1 cup sweet milk rs 


Mix ingredients in order given. Steam about 1% hours. Serve with 
lemon sauce.  —Mrs. Harvey H. Jones 


14. 
Se 
. 


PINEAPPLE MILK SHERBET 


¥, cup crushed pineapple 1T lemon juice 
1 tsp. grated lemon rind 25 cup sugar 
1 pint milk 


Combine and stir until sugar is dissolved. Pour into freezing tray and 
freeze firm. Remove to mixing bowl and beat until creamy. Return quickly 
to freezing tray and finish freezing. —Mrs. Richard, B. Knotts 


CORNSTARCH PUDDING 
1 cup sugar 4 T cornstarch 
Mix and add 2 cups boiling water and cook till clear and thick. Remove _ 
from fire, and add juice of 1 lemon and beaten whites of 2 eggs, fold in 
lightly. Serve with custard sauce as follows: 1 quart milk, 1 cup sugar, 2 
egg yolks, and 2 T cornstarch. —Mrs. L. Wible 


CARMEL PUDDING 


1% cup sugar 14 cup raisins 
% cup milk 144 cups cake flour 
1 tsp. baking powder 3 tsp. salt 


2 tsp. vanilla 


Mix and pour in deep pan. Take 1 cup brown sugar and 2 cups boiling 
water and lump butter. Pour this over the batter and bake until done. 
by —Mrs. William Camm 


LEMON SPONGE 


1% T granulated gelatin ‘, cup cold water 
1 cup boiling water °4 cup sugar 
% cup strained lemon juice % tsp. salt 


3 egg whites 


Soak the gelatin in the cold water for 5 minutes and dissolve by adding 
the boiling water. Strain gelatin into a bowl, add the sugar, salt and lemon 
juice. Chill this mixture and when it begins to set, beat for 2 or 3 minutes. 
Then add well beaten egg whites and continue to beat until very light and 
foamy. The pudding may be served in individual dishes with custard sauce, 
or it may be placed in a wet mold and when firm turned onto a dish and 
the soft custard poured around it. Rinse pudding molds with cold water, 
turn the mixture into them and allow to stand in cool place for 2 or 3 hours 
to set. Serve with the following sauce: 


CUSTARD SAUCE 
1 pint milk 3 egg yolks 
% cup sugar 1g tsp. salt 
% tsp. vanilla 
Heat milk, sugar and salt in double boiler. Beat egg yolks lightly and 
pour slowly into them some of the heated milk. Pour back into the double 
boiler and stir constantly until the custard coats the spoon. Remove at 
once and place pan in bowl of cold water, stirring until cool. Add vanilla. 
—Mrs. J. Bosshart 


GRAHAM CRACKER ROLL 


1 pound graham crackers, rolled 1 cup whipping cream 
fine 1 pound marshmallows, rolled fine 
1 pound dates, cut up 1 pound walnuts, cut up 
Whip cream and mix other ingredients into cream. Mold into loaf and 
roll in graham crumbs. Chill for 1 hour. Slice and serve with whipped 
cream. Serves 10 generously. —Mrs. Eugene Waara 


75 


a 


- 


CHOCOLATE ROLL 


5 egg yolks * 1 cup powdered sugar 
3 T cocoa 5 egg whites 
Whipped cream Thin chocolate sauce 


Beat yolks until thick, add sugar and beat thoroughly. Add cocoa, fold 
in stiffly beaten whites. Spread in buttered and floured dripping pan and 
bake about 10 minutes in moderate oven (350 degrees.) Turn out on floured 
cloth. Cover with damp cloth. When cool, spread with whipped cream and 
roll. Serve with chocolate sauce. 


CHOCOLATE SAUCE 


1 cup sugar % cup water 
Few grains of cream of tartar 1% squares chocolate melted over 
% tsp. vanilla hot water 
Boil sugar, water and cream of tartar five minutes. Pour slowly on 
chocolate. Cool slightly and flavor. —Anna Tetlow 


APPLE RINGS 


2 red apples, washed and polished 3 T red cinnamon candy 
1 cup sugar 1 cup water 
Do not pare apples. Core. Slice each apple crosswise in %4 inch slices. 
Bring sugar and water to a boil and stir until sugar dissolves. Boi] 4 min- 
utes with red cinnamon candy. Cover apples with this syrup and simmer 
gently until tender. Garnish meat platter with these. —Margaret Marsh 


RHUBARB PUDDING 


1 egg , % cup milk 

Pinch of salt 2 tsp. baking powder 
1% cup sugar 2 T butter 

2 cups rhubarb 2 cups flour 


Sift together flour, salt, sugar and baking powder. Beat egg in milk, 
and add melted butter. Combine mixtures and beat well. Add rhubarb cut 
in small pieces. Bake. Serve with sweet sauce. —Mrs. F. W. Preston 


SWEET SAUCE 
1 tsp. flour 1 cup sugar 
14 cup butter 1 beaten egg 
1 tsp. flavoring 
Mix all together and beat well, add 1 cup boiling milk. Cook a few 
minutes longer. —Mrs. F. W. Preston 


UPSIDE DOWN COBBLER 

Stew 1 pint berries, add % cup water and % cup sugar. Cool. Cream 
% cup shortening and % cup sugar, add 1 egg. Sift together 1 cup flour, 2 
tsp. baking powder and % tsp. salt and add alternately to creamed mix- 
ture with % cup milk. Mix and put in baking dish, add berries. Bake 375 
degrees for 45 minutes. Serve with whipped cream.—Mrs. Leland Swanson 


PINEAPPLE DESSERT 
20 marshmallows 1 cup crushed pineapple 
3 bananas % pint whipping cream 

Soak marshmallows in pineapple over night. In the morning mash ba- 
nanas, add to the mixture, let set in ice box for % hour. Whip cream and 
add slowly, folding in cream. Chill. —Mrs. Ted Currier 


f « 


. 


| | & 
76 / < ‘A 


4 . , 
LEMON PURDING . 
: 3 T butter 7 eee: 
% cup sugar cup mi ; 
% i 5 f one lemon 
2 eggs, separated Juice and,grated rind of 0 F 


¥% tsp. salt 
Combine butter, salt, sugar, and flour and mix well. Add egg yolks, 
milk, and lemon juice and rind and beat with egg beater until smooth. Bold , 
in beaten egg whites. Pour into greased baking dish, set in pan of hot water 
bake in moderate oven 45 minutes. Serve warm. : 
OVE —Mrs. Sidney Weybright 


CABROT PUDDING 


1 cup carrots, grated 1 cup potatoes, grated 

1 cup flour 1 cup sugar 

24 cups raisins 1 tsp. soda 

1 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. salt 

tsp. cinnamon Serve with Brandy sauce 
Butter size of an egg ad 1 cup walnuts 


Q 
—Mrs. C. Nasser 


GELATIN ICE CREAM WHIP 
2 packages orange gelatin dessert Pint vanilla ice Cream 
1 quart boiling water 


Dissolve gelatin in hot water and chill mixture until cold and syrupy. 
Beat with rotary egg beater until fluffy, add ice cream d continue beat- 


ing. Chill until firm. ‘ —Mrs. D. Hamilton 
BANANA PUDDING N 
2 cups scalded milk “4 cup sugar 
% tsp. salt * % cup flour *~ 
2 eggs, separated 1% tsp. lemon juice 
Vanilla cookies 3 medium bandanas > 
2 T sugar 7 . 


Scald milk in double boiler. Blend thoroughly sugar, salt, and flour, add 
gradually to scalded milk, stirring until mixture thickens. Cook 15 minutes 
stirring occasionally. Then mix with egg yolks, stirring rapidly, return to 
double boiler, stir and cook 2 minutes longer. Add lemon juice and allow 
custard to cool. . ; 

Line bottom of 7 inch casserole or pudding dish with the vanilla 
cookies, and stand a layer on edge around the side of dish. Add a layer of 
sliced bananas, and pour over one-half the custard. Add another layer of 
eookies, another layer of sliced, bananas and pour remaining custard over 
all. Beat meringue until stiff and add 2 T sugar. Bake in a slow oven (300- 
325 degrees) about 15 minutes or until meringue is browned. Serve cold. 

—Mrs. J. L. Harper, Jr. 


- 


LEMON FLUFF > 
1 package lemon gelatine desert Juice of 1 lemon 


Grated rind of 1 lemon 1 package vanilla wafers—ice 
Juice of 1 small can pineapple cream wafer type : 

1 can evaporated milk — 146 cup sugar 

Pinch of salt 1 small can crushed pineapple 

1 cup hot water eo , 


Mix gelatine with juices and enough water to make 2 cups of liquid. 
Chill milk thoroughly and whip until frothy. Whip gelatiné mixture and 
combine all together. Place crushed wafers in glass dish and pour on mix- . 
ture and cover with crushed wafers. Place in ice box to set. Serves 12 to 16. 


—Mrs. Katherine Ford 


o. 


VT 
eee 


GRAHAM CRACKER PUDDING 


1% cups brown sugar “ 1 tsp. vanilla 
4 tsp. baking powder 1 pound graham crackers, finely 
1 cup seedless raisins | crushed 
1% to 1% cups milk or 1 small can % tsp. salt 
crushed pineapple 3 eggs 


Combine graham crackers, sugar and baking powder, salt and raisins. 
Beat eggs very light, add 1% cups milk and vanilla, blend with graham 
cracker mixture, (the amount of milk will vary with the type of graham 
crackers.) Heat pan with 1 tsp. butter. When butter is slightly brown pour 
into pudding batter. Bake 30 to 40 minutes or until firm. 

Carmel Sauce: % cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup water, 1 T corn- 
starch, % tsp. vanilla. —Patricia Ann Davis 


STEAMED BREAD PUDDING 
2 cups stale bread crumbs, soaked 1 cup raisins 


in hot water 4% cup sugar 
*8 cup shortening 1 egg 
% cup molasses % tsp. nutmeg 
4% tsp. cinnamon 1 tsp. baking powder 
% tsp. cloves 2 cups flour 
1 scant tsp. soda Pinch of salt 
Mix together and steam 3 hours. —Rose Marie Shoop 


GRAHAM CRACKER MARSHMALLOW ROLL 
1 pound dates 1 pound walnuts 
1 pound marshmallows 36 graham crackers 
1 pint whipping cream 
Cut dates, marshmallows and nuts, mix. Whip cream, add. Roll crack- 
ers (save some crackers to roll mixture in.) Add balance to mixture. Form 
into a roll and chill. Serves 18 or 19. P ; —Mrs. Florence Groat 


KARMEL GLAZE TOPPING 
2 T shortening % cup brown sugar—firmly packed 
2 T coffee cream ¥% tsp. salt 
1 tsp. corn syrup 
Combine all ingredients in sauce pan and bring to a boil. Remove from 
heat. Cool. Keeps well in refrigerator. Make a sandwich with Angel Food 
cake and ice cream and pour over hot syrup. —Mrs. George Smith 


APPLE GOODY 
6 large apples %, cup sugar 
% tsp. cinnamon 
Pare and slice apples in greased baking pan, put sugar and cinnamon 
over apples. ‘ 


Topping: *%4 cup flour 
1 cup dry quick oats % tsp. soda } 
1 cup brown sugar % cup oleomargarine 


4 tsp. baking powder 
Mix together well and put over top of prepared apples. Bake in moder- 
ate oven about 45 minutes or until apples are cooked. Serves 8.—Ethel Dunn 


78 
eS ee ee 


MISCELLANEOUS 


TOM AND JERRY 

8 eggs 2 pounds powdered sugar 

1 cup whip cream : 
Separate eggs and divide whites in half, Beat yolks until very light in 

color, gradually adding sugar until very thick. Beat half of whites, add 

small amount of sugar and fold into yolks, whip cream and add to mixture. 
Topping: Beat remaining whites and gradually beat in remaining sugar. 

Beat until the sugar is dissolved. —Mrs. Ear] Van 


SANDWICH FILLINGS 
Dried fruit and honey—Grind and mix any of the following fruits with 
honey, dates, raisins, prunes, apricots or figs. 


Nut and honey filling—Grind nuts and combine with erystalized honey. 
—Josephine Wooden 


HELPS AND HINTS 


To set gelatin deserts quickly dissolve gelatin in 1 cup boiling water and 
add 1 cup ice cubes—stir until set. —Mrs. K. Ford 


Ammonia will remove white spots from furniture. 

Remove tea and coffee stains with boiling water. 

Remove chocolate stains with borax and coid water. 

Remove grass stains with ammonia and water. 

Remove scorch with sunlight. 

Remove grass stains with ammonio and water. 

Remove ink stains with sour milk, lemon juice or salts of lemon. 
Remove medicine stains by soaking in alcohol. 


To remove ink from white goods, soak half hour in vinegar, wash, soak 
in solution of chloride of lime, wash. 


To remove iron rust, moisten with ammonia, then use salts of lemon or 
oxalic acid, rinse in boiling water. 


Paint stains that are old or dry may be removed from cotton or woolen 
goods by chloroform, first covering the spots with butter or olive oil. 


Ginger poultices instead of mustard, prepared in the same way you 
would prepare a mustard poultice, will relieve neuralgia and will not blister.. 


Marks on tables caused by hot dishes may be removed by kerosene 
rubbed in with a soft cloth. 


Kerosene will brighten silver and zinc. 


A tablespoon of kerosene in a boiler of clothes will greatly facilitate 
the cleaning. 


A teaspoon of corn starch mixed with a cup of salt will prevent it clog- 
ging in the shakers. 2 


—Mrs. T. Gibson 


79 


WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES 


ist.—Paper. 13th.—Lace. 
2nd.—Cotton. 14th.—Ivory, 
3rd.—Leather. ‘15th —eyetal 


4th.—Fruit or flowers. z2oth.—China. 
5th.—Wooden. 25th.—Silver. 
6th.—Sugar and candy. 30th.—Pearl. 
7th.—Woolen and copper. 35th.—Coral. 
8th.—Bronze or pottery. 40th.— Ruby. 
9th.—Pottery or willow. 45th.—Sapphire. 
10th.—Tin. 50th.—Golden. 
11th.—Steel. 5th.—Emerald. 
12th.—Silk and linen. 75th.—Diamond. 


“We may live without poetry, music and art; 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks.” 


RECIPE FOR A DAY 


Take a little dash of water, 
And a little leaven of prayer; 
Add a little bit of morning gold, 
Dissolved in the morning air. 


Add to your meal some merriment, 
And a thought of kith and kin. 
And then, as your prime ingredient, 
A plenty of work thrown in. 


But spice it all with the essence of love, 
And a little whiff of play; 

Let a wise old book and a glance above, 
Complete a well made day. 


RECIPE FOR A HAPPY HOME 


One cupful honesty, 1 cupful congeniality 
Two cupfuls plenty, 3 cupfuls respect 

Four cupfuls of love.—Stir honesty and plenty to a smooth mixture, add 
4 portions of love, well beaten, moisten with 1 cupful congeniality, 
stir slowly the 3 cupfuls respect. 

Season with fruit of the Spirit and add a dash of the spice of unself- 
ishness and a pinch of the salt of individuality. 


Lighten with leaves of constancy. 


LIE. 8.) 8 FSR). Se ee re 


Phone 492 Phone 688-L 
Astoria Bell Bros. 
Florist : JEWELERSo > a 


i Eleventh 
Fifteenth and exchange 489 Commercial Near Eleve 


Astoria, Oregon Astoria, Oregon 


Radio Service 
Company 


HOME, AUTO AND MARINE 
RADIO SERVICE 
136 Ninth St. Astoria, Ore. 
561 Commercial Phone 200 Phone 270 


Dawns Shaner & 
Fel s Pla ce Company 


WATCHES, DIAMONDS, 


| FINE FOODS AND, JEWELRY 
\ BEVERAGES } Fine Watch and Jewelry 
‘ Repairing 
Ida Chopard, Prop . Phople 2851 
ed. 477 Commercial Astoria, Ore. 
We SF Babe. Nothwang Lucille Elliott 


Alberta McVeigh 


Elec ric Company eee sees 
Light bee Power Witing eau y ervice 


\APPLIANCES GUARANTEED OIL PERMANENTS 
SALES AND SERVICE $8.50 AND UP 


Phone 399 Cor. 10th and Duane 
Astoria, Oregon 


Phone 3316 


Main Street Grocery~ 
en ara 


ASS TORERCOMPLETE Ma. } 
FULL OF GOOD THINGS TO EAT 


vs 


/ 
/ 


Phone S27 


\ 


Open Seven Days a Week 


Free Delivery 


P Unitedestates National Bank 
of Portland 


ASTORIA BRANCH 


Astoria, Oregon 


Guy C. Rea, Manager 
Roy N. Salisbury, Asst. Mgr. George Andresen, Asst. Mgr. 


Fenton's Grocery 


FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 
COLD AND SMOKED MEATS—DAIRY PRODUCTS 


Phone 3251 


Maize's Red & White Sharst 


FRUITS AND VEGETABLES ~~ 
MEATS, FROZEN FOODS, DAIRY PRODUCTS 


— 


Phone 2501 Free Deliver 


GREETINGS FROM 
Riviera Theatre 


Astoria, Oregon Phone 123 


“HOME OF GOOD PICTURES” 


Riviera Sweet Shop 


“BE SWEET WITH ME” 


Astoria, Oregon . Phone 1478 
INSURANCE REAL ESTATE 
L. F. Van Dusen |. ““Pete’’ Pederson, 
M. J. Van Dusen Realtor 
B. B. Atwood 


Van Dusen Agency 


Established in 1849 


Tenth and Duane - Telephone 79 
Astoria, Oregon 


eee 


ell Service 


Wa rrento 


f 


Paul Miller, Proprieto Phone 4046 


Columbia Hardware ~ 


FULLER PAINTS 
,PHILCO APPLIANCES + RADIO SERVICE * 


aa Call Warrenton 2076 
na for 
Your General Hardware Needs 


Leatham Clothing | 


MEN’S AND BOYS’ FURNISHINGS~ 
WORK AND DRESS * 


i Phoneewarrentan!424 1 


eer een 


DIXIES 
BUTTER-NUT BREAD 


Astoria, Oregon 


“POPULAR BECAUSE IT’S GOOD” 


INVES GATE? oe lilaPA YoutOr SHOR 


GREENBERG'S 
FURNITURE 


FOR GREATER VALUES 


Astoria, Oregon 


COMPLIMENTS 


Ginn's ch 
GIFT AND APPLIANCE City Lumber & 
403 Commercial! Phone 459 Supply Co. 
Astoria, Oregon Astoria, Oregon 
Kelson's 
Eastern Tavern 
423 Commercial Street LIGHT LUNCHES 
Aatoria,, Oregon CRAB COCKTAILS 


Phone 3281 James E. Burke, Prop. 


Helen's — 


FOUNTAIN AND 
LUNCH 


Make Our Own Ice Cream 


Eve's Shop 


TOTS TO TEENS 


11th and Commercial Sts. 
Astoria, Oregon 


Florence Wheeler Smith, Prop. Phone 3146 


HAVE YOU TRIED Jarvis 


DAYTIME BOWLING Refrigeration xf 
e 
AT THE... Service 
S REFRIGERATION AND 
Astoria APPLIANCES 
B ¢ T 470 Duane St. Astoria, Ore. 
Owling A ey Phone 1096 
Majestic Radios - Home Freezers 
Floor Furnaces - Reach-Ins 


Serre 


& FOS d01 


