TX  357 
.06 

Copy  1 


ioo  Thrift  Tripes 

That  Use  Little  Wheat 
Meaty  Fat  and  Sugar 


Gingerbread.  Made 
With  Drippings 


«»  /  * 

I  - 


V 


Frozen  Raisin 
Pudding  With 
Little  Sugar 


Rice  and  Corn 
Muffins 


Mock  Fo'ivl  With 
Herb  Stuffing 


PHOTOGRAPHS  BY  HARRIET  ELLSWORTH  COATES 


NH81 


217B 


Copyright,  1918,  Curtis  Publishing  Company 


>  i  t 

*  .  • 


Housekeeping  Booklets 

“How  to  Gan  Fruits,  Vegetables  and 
Meats’’— This  booklet  will  help  you  in  turn¬ 
ing  your  summer  garden  into  a  winter  one. 
Price,  10  cents. 

“How  to  Dry  Fruits  and  Vegetables’’  — 

This  booklet  has  been  prepared  to  supply  the 
demand  from  our  readers  for  information  on 
this  subject.  Price,  10  cents. 

“Plantation  Corn  Dishes  Like 
Mammy  Used  to  Make” — Contains  de¬ 
licious  recipes  made  from  corn.  Price,  10 
cents. 

“Low-Cost  Meals  for  High-Cost 
Times” — Balanced  meals  with  recipes  to 
meet  the  increasing  cost  of  food.  Compiled 
from  investigations  conducted  in  the  largest 
cities  of  the  United  States.  Price,  10  cents. 

“A  Guide  to  Menu-Making” — This 
will  aid  you  in  planning  balanced  menus  to  fit 
your  food  budget.  Price,  6  cents. 

“The  Ladies’  Home  Journal  Budget 
Chart”  serves  as  a  guide  in  working  out  your 
special  problem  of  dividing  your  finances. 
Price,  10  cents. 

The  Household  Bureau 

The  Ladies’  Home  Journal 

Independence  Square 
Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania 


I 


100  Thrift  Recipes 

“Less”  Wheat  and  Wheatless  Recipes 

Corn-and-Rice  Muffins 

Pour  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  hot  milk  over  one  cupful  of  cooked  rice  and  work  with 
a  fork  to  separate  the  grains;  add  half  a  cupful  of  corn  meal  to  the  hot  mixture,  two  table¬ 
spoonfuls  of  bacon  fat,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar;  set 
aside  to  cool.  When  the  mixture  is  cold,  add  half  a  cupful  of  flour  and  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder;  beat  it  thoroughly;  bake  in  well-greased  muffin  pans  in  a  hot  oven  for 
twenty  minutes. 


Corn-Meal  Yeast  Bread 

1  yi  Cupfuls  of  Milk  and  Water,  or  Water  %  Cupful  of  Corn  Meal 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar  (if  Desired)  2y  Cupfuls  of  Flour 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat  (if  Desired)  y  Cake  of  Compressed  Yeast 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt  y  Cupful  of  Warm  Water 

Add  sugar,  fat  and  salt  to  the  liquid  and  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  the  corn 
meal  slowly,  stirring  constantly  until  all  is  added.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  cool  the 
mixture;  add  the  compressed  yeast  softened  in  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  warm  water.  Add 
two  cupfuls  and  a  third  of  flour  and  knead.  Let  rise  until  about  double  in  bulk;  knead 
again,  and  put  in  pan.  When  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  at  least  an  hour. 


Southern  Spoon  Corn  Bread 


2  Cupfuls  of  White  Corn  Meal  1 y  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 

2xy  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water  2  Eggs 

iy  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Butter  Substitute  \y  Cupfuls  of  Buttermilk 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

Add  the  boiling  water  to  the  corn  meal  and  let  it  stand  until  cool.  Add  the  butter 
substitute,  salt,  the  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten,  and  the  buttermilk,  mixed  with  soda.  Beat 
for  two  minutes,  and  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  forty  minutes. 


Baking-Powder  Corn  Bread 


2  Cupfuls  of  Corn  Meal  1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar 

2  Cupfuls  of  Sweet  Milk  (Whole  or  Skim)  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Egg  (May  be  Omitted) 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  milk,  the  well-beaten  egg  and  the  melted  fat.  Beat 
well.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  for  about  thirty  minutes. 


Raisin  Corn  Bread 

1  Cupful  of  Sour  Milk  V\  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

1  Well-Beaten  Egg  1  Teaspoonful  of  Cream  of  Tartar 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter  Substitute  1  Cupful  of  Flour 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Sugar  1  Cupful  of  Corn  Meal 

\\i  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt  Vi  Cupful  of  Raisins 

Mix  together  the  milk,  egg,  butter  substitute,  sugar  and  salt;  add  the  soda,  dissolved 
in  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  water,  and  then  the  flour  and  the  cream  of  tartar  sifted  together. 
Stir  in  the  corn  meal  and  raisins.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 


Nut 

y<i  Cupful  of  Corn  Meal 
y  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
1  Level  Teaspoonful  of  Vegetable  Fat 
y  Cupful  of  Boiling  Water 


Bread 

\y  Cupfuls  of  Rye  Flour 

4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 
%  Cupful  of  Milk 
x/i  Cupful  of  Chopped  Nuts 


Put  the  corn  meal  into  a  bowl;  add  the  salt,  fat  and  boiling  water;  mix;  let  stand  for 
twenty  minutes.  Now  add  the  flour,  mixed  with  the  baking  powder  and  the  milk,  and 
lastly  the  chopped  nuts.  Mix  lightly,  pour  into  a  well-greased  bread  pan;  let  stand  in  a 
warm  place  for  twenty  minutes.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Do  not  cut  until  cold. 


3 


s-  Oatmeal  Hurry-Ups 

1  Cupful  of  Rolled  Oats  M  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Cupful  of  Flour  1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  Y  Cupful  of  Milk  (About) 

Y  Cupful  of  Chopped  Dates 

Mix  the  oats,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cut  in  the  fat.  Add  the  milk,  and  mix, 
forming  a  soft  dough.  Lastly  add  the  chopped  dates.  *  Drop  into  greased  muffin  tins  or 
onto  a  greased  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Corn-Meal  Bread 

3  Cupfuls  of  Milk  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

\Y  Cupfuls  of  Corn  Meal 

Mix  the  ingredients  and  spread  in  shallow  greased  pans  to  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
in  depth.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  crisp. 

Whole- Wheat  Prune  Bread 

Wash  one  cupful  of  prunes;  soak  for  several  hours;  drain,  stone  and  chop.  Mix  and 
sift  two  cupfuls  and  a  half  of  whole-wheat  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  molasses,  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  shortening,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder;  add  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  milk;  beat  well.  Add  the  prunes.  Put  into  greased 
bread  pans,  allow  to  stand  for  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  warm  place,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 

Steamed  Corn-Meal -Apple  Pudding 

Stir  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  thoroughly  into  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  add 
this  mixture  to  one  quart  of  freshly  made  mush,  following  with  one  scant  pint  of  pared  and 
sliced  apples,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  substitute  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Turn 
into  a  greased  mold  and  steam  for  two  hours.  Serve  hot  with  a  spoonful  of  ice  cream  on  each 
portion,  or  with  lemon  sauce  made  by  boiling  together  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  cupful 
of  water.  When  cool,  add  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  the  juice  and 
a  little  cinnamon. 


Corn-Muffin  Dessert  With  Spiced  Apples 

Cut  four  medium-size  apples  into  eighths,  and  core  but  do  not  pare  them.  Divide  each 
eighth  crosswise  into  four  pieces.  Place  one  teaspoonful  of  whole  cloves  and  half  a  stick  of 
cinnamon  in  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  one 
cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar  and  half  of  the  apples  and  continue  boiling.  When  the  apples  are 
tender  remove  with  a  skimmer  and  cook  the  other  half.  Remove  when  done  and  boil  down 
the  liquid  to  a  heavy  sirup.  Pour  this  over  the  apples  and  cool.  Make  eight  large-size  corn 
muffins  by  any  standard  recipes,  slightly  increasing  the  amount  of  sugar.  When  they  come 
from  the  oven  cut  a  circular  “lid”  from  the  top  of  each  and  scoop  out  the  interior  with  a 
teaspoon  (the  rejected  portion  can  be  dried  for  crumbs,  or  utilized  in  bread  pudding).  Fill 
with  the  spiced  apples  and  sirup  and  place  the  lids  on  top.  Serve  immediately. 


Corn  Sticks 

1  Cupful  of  Corn  Meal 
Cupful  of  Flour 

3  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 
Y  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 


Y  Cupful  of  Hot  Boiled  Hominy 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
1  Cupful  of  Milk 
1  Egg 


Beat  together  all  the  ingredients  and  bake  in  greased  bread-stick  pans  for  twenty 
minutes.  This  thin,  crisp  corn  bread  will  be  liked  with  soup,  salads  or  as  a  dinner  bread. 


Salad  Wafers 

Yi  Cupful  of  Corn  Meal  Y  Teaspoonful  of  .Salt 

Y  Cupful  of  Wheat  Flour  1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients. .  Cut  the  fat  into  the  flour,  and  add  sufficient  liquid 
to  make  a  dough  that  can  be  rolled  thin.  Cut  into  diamond  shapes.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
until  light  brown.  If  desired,  after  rolling  out  the  dough,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and 
paprika.  Make  into  cheese  straws. 


Corn  Crispets 

Pour  one  cupful  of  boiling  water  oven  seven-eighths  of  a  cupful  of  corn  meal,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  fat  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  and  spread  on  an  oiled  pan  an 
eighth  of  an  inch  thick;  bake  and  cut  into  three-inch  squares.  Serve  at  once. 


4 


1  t 


hr./*  /.  <■  / 


■* 


Virginia  Waffles 

Cook  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  white  corn  meal  in-one  cupful  and  a  half  of  boiling  water 
for  twenty  minutes;  add  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  tablespoon¬ 
fuls  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  and  a  quarter  of  baking  powder  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  sifted  together.  Add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  substitute  and  two  egg  whites  beaten  until  stiff.  Cook  the  same  as  waffles., 

Corn-Meal  Griddlecakes 

Scald  two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk  and  pour  them  over  one  cupful  and  a  third  of  corn  meal. 
Let  stand  until  cold.  Add  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Add  one  well-beaten  egg 
yolk;  then  fold  in  one  stiffly  beaten  egg  white. 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

1  Cupful  of  Corn  Meal  1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

1  Cupful  of  Graham  Flour  ^  Cupful  of  Molasses 

1  Cupful  of  Rye  Flour  Cupfuls  of  Thick  Sour  Milk 

34  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Sift  the  corn  meal  and  flour  before  measuring.  Mix  the  corn  meal,  Graham  flour,  rye 
flour,  soda  and  salt.  Add  the  milk  and  molasses  to  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  this  mixture 
thoroughly  and  pour  it  into  thoroughly  greased  cans.  Fill  the  cans  two-thirds  full.  Cover 
tightly  and  steam  the  mixture  four  hours. 

Cereal  Pancakes 

Put  two  cupfuls  of  cold  cooked  cereal  into  a  mixing  bowl;  mash  fine  with  a  fork  to  free 
from  lumps;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  'a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  well- 
beaten  egg  and  a  cupful  of  milk.  Sieve  two  cupfuls  of  flour  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Stir  into  the  mixture  and  beat  thoroughly  to  a  smooth  batter.  Fry  in  large  pan¬ 
cakes  on  a  hot  well-greased  griddle  and  spread  with  jelly.  Pile  one  on  top  of  another  and,  in 
serving,  cut  as  you  would  a  pie. 

Potato  Bread 

1)4  Cupfuls  of  Mashed  Potato  (Packed  Solid)  )4  to  )4  Yeast  Cake  Softened  in  2  Tablespoon- 

134  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt  fuls  Lukewarn  Water 

234  Cupfuls  of  Flour  (More  or  Less  Flour  May  be  Needed) 

Mashed  sweet  potato  or  cooked  cereal  or  squash  may  be  used  in  the  same  way  as  the 
Irish  potato.  In  using  any  substitute  which  has  a  marked  flavor  it  is  better  to  try  the  bread 
first  with  less  than  a  cupful  and  a  quarter  and  add  more  liquid.  Squash  rolls  are  very  good. 

Potato  Rolls 

1  Egg 

1  Cupful  of  Milk 
Yeast 

Flour 

To  the  hot  potatoes  add  the  lard,  sugar  and  salt.  When  the  mixture  is  cool,  add  the  egg, 
and  the  milk,  in  which  the  yeast  cake  has  been  dissolved.  Beat  the  mixture  well;  then  mix 
in  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Put  the  dough  to  rise  in  a  greased  bowl.  When  light, 
turn  it  out  on  a  floured  board  and  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  it  into  shapes 
with  a  biscuit  cutter,  brush  them  with  melted  butter  and  fold  them  over  like  Parker  House 

rolls.  Place  the  rolls  on  a  greased  pan;  let  them  rise,  and  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

Potato  Muffins 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter  Substitute  1  Cupful  of  Flour 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar  4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 

1  Egg  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  Potato  1  Cupful  of  Milk 

Cream  the  butter  substitute  and  the  sugar;  add  the  egg,  which  has  been  well  beaten, 
then  the  potatoes,  and  mix  these  ingredients  thoroughly.  Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt 
together  and  add  them  and  the  milk  to  the  mixture  alternately.  Bake  the  muffins  in  greased 
gem  pans  for  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 

Potato  Dumplings  That  Save  Bread 

i  Cupful  of  Potatoes  34  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  Flour  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Butter  Substitute 

%  Cupful  of  Milk  (About) 


2  Cupfuls  of  Potato 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar 


5 


Mix  and  roll  out  the  dough  according  to  directions  given  for  biscuits  in  the  preceding 
recipe.  Place  the  dumplings  close  together  in  a  greased  steamer;  place  the  steamer  over 
boiling  water:  cover  it  closely,  and  steam  the  dumplings  for  twelve  minutes. 

“Fifty-Fifty”  Biscuits 

2  Cupfuls  of  Ground  Soy  Beans  or  Finely  Ground  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 

Peanuts  1  Tablespoonful  of  Shortening  (if  Desired) 

2  Cupfuls  of  White  Flour  Liquid  Sufficient  to  Mix  to  a  Proper 

4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  Consistency  (1  to  iy  Cupfuls) 

Add  the  sugar,  fat  and  salt  to  the  liquid,  and  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  the  corn 
meal  slowly,  stirring  constantly  until  all  is  added.  Remove  from  the  fire,  cool  the  mixture, 
and  add  the  compressed  yeast,  softened  in  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  warm  water.  Add  two 
cupfuls  and  a  third  of  flour,  and  knead.  Let  rise  until  about  double  its  bulk,  knead  again, 
and  put  in  the  pan.  When  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  at  least  an  hour. 

Rye-and-Corn-Flour  Biscuit 

1  Cupful  of  Rye  Flour  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  Corn  Flour  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Shortening 

z/i  Cupful  of  Milk 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  sift  into  a  basin.  Chop  them  in  with  a  knife.  Add  the  milk 
gradually  until  the  mixture  is  soft  and  spongy.  Turn  onto  a  slightly  floured  board  and  roll 
lightly  until  a  uniform  thickness,  about  half  an  inch.  Cut  with  a  floured  biscuit  cutter,  place 
on  a  greased  tin  and  bake  for  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 


Buckwheat  Bread 

1 M  Cupfuls  of  Milk  y  Cupful  of  Molasses 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  2  Cupfuls  of  Buckwheat  Flour 

M  Yeast  Cake,  Dry  or  Compressed  in  2  Table-  1  y  Cupfuls  of  White  Flour 

spoonfuls  of  Water 

Scald  the  milk;  add  the  salt;  cool;  add  the  yeast  and  molasses.  Beat  in  the  flour  slowly 
and  let  the  dough  rise  till  double  in  bulk.  Beat  down,  put  into  a  greased  pan,  and  let  rise 
again  until  almost  double  in  bulk.  Bake  for  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Barley  Scones 

1  Cupful  of  Whole-Wheat  Flour  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 

1  Cupful  of  Barley  Meal  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

M  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  %  Cupful  of  Sour  Milk 

y  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

Sift  the  flour,  barley  meal,  salt,  baking  powder  and  soda  together,  and  work  in  the  fat 
with  the  tips  of  the  fingers  or  with  two  knives.  Combine  the  flour  mixture  and  sour  milk  to 
form  a  soft  dough.  Turn  out  on  a  well-floured  board,  knead  slightly  and  roll  to  half  an  inch 
thickness;  cut  into  diamond  shapes  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Oatmeal  Bread 

1  Cupful  of  Milk  or  Water  iy  Cupfuls  of  Wheat  Flour 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  y  Yeast  Cake 

1  Cupful  of  Rolled  Oats 

Scald  the  liquid;  add  the  salt,  and  pour  over  the  oats;  cool  for  half  an  hour;  add  the 
yeast,  mixed  with  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  lukewarm  water,  and  the  flour.  Knead  and  let  rise 
until  double  the  size.  Knead  again  and  let  rise  in  the  pan  until  the  size  is  doubled.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  fifty  minutes.  This  makes  one  loaf  weighing  one  pound  and  a  quarter. 

Oatmeal  Muffins 


1  Cupful  of  Rolled  Oats 
\x/i  Cupfuls  of  Hot  Milk 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar 

4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 


2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Bacon  Fat 
\XA  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 
XA  Cupful  of  Pastry  Flour  (Sifted) 
A  Cupful  of  Whole-Wheat  Flour 


Add  the  oats  and  butter  to  the  milk,  and  boil  for  one  minute.  Add  the  salt  and  sugar 
Sift  the  baking  powder  with  white  flour;  mix  with  the  whole-wheat  flour.  Stir  the  mixtures 
together.  It  should  drop  heavily  from  a  spoon.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twentv-five 
minutes.  } 


1  Egg 

M  Cupful  of  Sugar 
XA  Cupful  of  Milk 
y  Cupful  of  Water 

2  Cupfuls  of  Flour 


Oatmeal  Cookies  (20  Cookies) 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
1  Cupful  of  Raisins 
5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Fat 
y  Cupful  of  Fine  Oatmeal 


6 


Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Add  the  oatmeal.  Beat  the  egg;  add 
the  sugar,  water  and  milk,  the  dry  ingredients  mixed  together,  the  raisins  and  the  melted 
fat.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  greased  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Scotch  Oat  Crackers 

2  Cupfuls  of  Rolled  Oats  l\ ^  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

M  Cupful  of  Milk  %  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

x/\  Cupful  of  Molasses  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Grind  in  a  food  chopper  or  crush  the  oats  and  mix  with  the  other  materials.  Roll  out 
in  a  thin  sheet  and  cut  into  squares.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  This 
makes  three  dozen  crackers. 

Oatmeal  Wafers 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat  1  Cupful  of  Oatmeal 

1  Cupful  of  Brown  Sugar  5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

1  Egg  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water 

Cream  the  fat,  and  add  the  other  ingredients  in  the  order  mentioned.  Drop  by  teaspoon¬ 
fuls  on  a  greased  pan  at  least  two  inches  apart.  Bake  until  brown  on  the  edges.  Remove 
from  the  oven,  let  stand  for  one  minute  to  harden,  and  remove  from  the  pan  with  a  spatula. 
If  the  last  ones  in  the  pan  are  too  hard  to  remove  easily  return  them  to  the  oven  for  a  moment 
to  soften  them. 

Oatmeal  War  Bread 

1  Quart  of  Boiling  Water 
Y<l  of  an  Yeast  Cake 
x/i  Cupful  of  Lukewarn  Water 
8  Cupfuls  of  Flour  or  More 

First  measure  the  oatmeal,  salt,  sugar  and  fat,  and  pour  the  boiling  water  over  them. 
Let  stand  until  lukewarm;  dissolve  the  yeast  in  lukewarm  water,  and  add  it  to  the  other 
mixture.  Stir  in  the  flour,  and  knead  until  smooth  and  elastic;  let  rise  until  double  its  bulk, 
form  into  loaves  and  let  rise  again.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  one  hour. 

Hominy  Bread 


2  Cupfuls  of  Oatmeal 
2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Fat 


1  Cupful  of  Cold  Boiled  Hominy  Yi  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1J4  Cupfuls  of  Milk  1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder 

1  Cupful  of  Corn  Meal  1  Egg 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat 

Put  the  hominy  into  a  bowl  and  beat  it  thoroughly  with  a  fork.  Pour  the  milk  gradually 
over  the  hominy  and  continue  beating.  Mix  the  corn  meal,  salt  and  baking  powder  and  add 
them  to  the  hominy.  Melt  the  butter  over  hot  water.  When  the  butter  is  melted  directly 
over  the  flame  the  natural  taste  is  removed.  While  the  butter  is  melting,  beat  the  egg. 
Add  the  butter  and  egg.  Bake  the  mixture  in  a  deep,  greased  baking  dish  or  in  a  regular 
greased  bread  tin  for  thirty  minutes.  The  mixture  can  be  baked  in  fifteen  minutes  if  greased 
muffin  tins  are  used. 

Rice  Yeast  Bread 

x/2  Cupful  of  Milk  and  Water,  or  Water  (4  Ounces)  7  Cupfuls  of  Boiled  Rice 
4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar  (2  Ounces)  8  Cupfuls  of  Flour  (32  Ounces) 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat  (2  Ounces)  Yi  Cake  of  Compressed  Yeast  (Y  Ounce) 

lY  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt  Ounce)  Y  Cupful  of  Warm  Water  (2  Ounces) 

Scald  the  liquid  if  milk  is  used.  Pour  over  the  fat,  sugar  and  salt.  Cool,  and  add  the 
yeast,  moistened  in  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  warm  water.  Add  the  rice  and  flour,  and  knead. 
After  the  second  rising  bake  for  forty-five  minutes. 

Carolina  Rice  Waffles 

Boil  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  coarse  rice  flour  (or  rice)  to  a  pap;  to  it  add  two  cupfuls 
of  fine  rice  flour,  one  cupful  of  milk  or  one  cupful  of  water  and  a  little  salt.  Heat  the  waffle 
irons  and  grease  them  with  a  little  lard;  then  pour  in  the  batter  and  bake  the  waffles  to  a 
light  brown. 

RECIPES  WITHOUT  SUGAR 
Frozen  Raisin  Pudding 

Put  into  a  stewpan  three  cupfuls  of  milk,  the  finely  chopped  peel  of  one  lemon,  half  a 
cupful  of  honey  and  a  crushed  piece  of  cinnamon  about  one  inch  long.  Place  the  pan  on  the 
fire  and  bring  the  mixture  to  a  boil;  then  let  it  simmer  for  about  five  minutes.  Put  into  a 
bowl  four  raw  yolks  of  eggs  and  stir  them  well  together;  then  mix  the  flavored  milk  with 


them  gradually  and  return  the  mixture  to  the  stewpan;  stir  on  the  fire  until  it  is  thick  like 
cream;  then  take  up  and  rub  it  all  through  a  fine  sieve.  Put  this  custard  aside  until  cold, 
then  pour  it  into  the  freezer  and  freeze  to  the  thickness  of  a  batter.  Mix  with  a  cupful  of 
stiffly  whipped  cream  and  half  a  cupful  of  seeded  raisins;  flavor  with  a  teasooonful  of  vanilla 
essence.  Refreeze  the  mixture  until  dry. 


Fruit  Pudding 

2  Cupfuls  of  Graham  Flour  1  Cupful  of  Milk 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda  1  Cupful  of  Molasses 

34  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  Vi  Cupful  of  Chopped  Nuts 

34  Cupful  of  Chopped  Dates 

Mix  the  flour,  soda  and  salt.  Add  the  milk,  molasses,  nuts  and  fruit.  Pour  the  mixture 
into  greased  custard  cups  and  steam  it  for  one  hour. 


Brown  Betty 


3  Cupfuls  of  Chopped  Apples 
2  Cupfuls  of  Bread  Crumbs 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Butterine 
34  Cupful  of  Molasses 


34  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon 
34  Teaspoonful  of  Nutmeg. 

1  Lemon  (Juice  and  Rind) 
34  Cupful  of  Water 


Arrange  half  the  apples  in  a  baking  dish.  Cover  them  with  half  the  bread  crumbs  and 
the  fat  (mixed  together).  Add  half  the  molasses  and  spices  (mixed  together)  and  half  the 
lemon.  Arrange  a  second  layer,  using  the  remaining  materials.  Add  the  water.  If  the  apples 
are  juicy  omit  part  or  all  of  the  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  apples  are  tender. 


Scalloped  Corn  Meal  and  Apples 

34  Cupful  of  Corn  Meal  2  Large  Apples 

194  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Molasses 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat 

Cook  the  corn  meal  in  the  boiling  salted  water.  Pare  the  apples  and  cut  them  into  thin 
slices.  Arrange  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  the  sliced  apples.  Sprinkle  salt  and  pour  a  small 
amount  of  molasses  over  them.  Arrange  a  layer  of  mush  over  the  apples.  Repeat  the  layers, 
using  these  same  materials.  Melt  the  fat  in  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  pour 
it  over  the  layers.  Bake  the  mixture  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  apples  are  soft.  Serve  this 
dessert  with  a  sirup. 

Molasses  Pudding  With  Foamy  Sauce 

34  Cupful  of  Flour  34  Cupful  of  Milk 

) 4  Cupful  of  Molasses  34  Cupful  of  Oleomargarine 

34  Cupful  of  Corn  Sirup  34  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

2  Eggs 

Mix  the  flour,  molasses  and  corn  sirup  together.  Heat  the  milk,  melt  the  oleomargarine 
in  it,  and  add  the  soda.  Add  these  ingredients  to  the  flour  mixture.  Add  the  eggs,  well 
beaten,  and  bake  the  mixture  in  a  deep,  greased  tin  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Fig  Tapioca 

34  Cupful  of  Granulated  Tapioca  34  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

34  Cupful  of  Cold  Water  34  Cupful  of  Corn  Sirup 

2  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water  94  Cupful  of  Chopped  Figs 

34  Cupful  of  Chopped  Nuts 

Mix  the  tapioca  and  salt  with  the  cold  water;  add  to  the  boiling  water,  and  cook 
directly  over  the  fire  until  the  tapioca  is  clear  and  transparent.  Add  the  corn  sirup  and  the 
figs,  and  cook  over  hot  water  for  twenty  minutes.  Add  the  nuts;  chill  and  serve. 


Maple  Nut  Blancmange 

2  Cupfuls  of  Milk  34  Cupful  of  Maple  Sirup 

34  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  34  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Cornstarch  34  Cupful  of  Chopped  Nuts 

'  Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  the  cornstarch  and  salt  with  the  maple  sirup  and, 
when  smooth,  stir  into  the  hot  milk.  Continue  stirring  until  it  thickens,  and  cook  over  hot 
water,  without  stirring,  for  at  least  twenty  minutes.  Longer  cooking  develops  a  better 
flavor.  Stir  in  the  nuts  and  turn  into  wet  molds  to  chill.  It  may  be  served  with  milk  or  cream 
or  with  a  hot  maple-sirup  sauce,  made  by  heating  half  a  cupful  of  the  maple  sirup. 

Conservation  Pudding 

1  Cupful  of  Cooked  Prunes  1  Cupful  of  Dates 

34  Cupful  of  Figs  34  Cupful  of  Nuts 

1  Cupful  of  Raisins  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Lemon  Juice 

34  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 


8 


Put  the  prunes,  figs,  raisins,  dates  and  nuts  through  a  food  chopper.  Add  the  lemon 
juice  and  salt.  Moisten  with  the  juice  in  which  prunes  were  cooked,  until  the  mixture  is 
about  the  consistency  of  a  fruit  whip.  Chill  in  molds.  Serve  with  the  juice  in  which  the 
prunes  were  cooked  or  with  cream. 


Colonial  Pudding 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Pearl  Tapioca  Y  Cupful  of  Molasses 

2  Cupfuls  of  Milk  Y  Tablespoonful  of  Salt 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Corn  Meal  Yi  Cupful  of  Raisins 

Yi  Cupful  of  Milk 

Soak  the  tapioca  overnight  in  cold  water.  Mix  the  two  cupfuls  of  milk  with  the  corn 
meal,  molasses  and  salt,  anti  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Drain  the 
tapioca,  and  stir  it  into  the  other  mixture.  Add  the  raisins,  and  pour  into  a  greased  baking 
dish;  add  the  half  cupful  of  milk,  and  bake  for  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

Prune  Honey  Pudding 

Wash  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  prunes;  then  let  them  stand  just  covered  with  warm 
water  for  twenty  minutes.  Drain,  remove  the  pits  and  chop  the  pulp.  To  this  add  half  a 
pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  three  table¬ 
spoonfuls  of  honey  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  shortening.  Then  sift  one  cupful  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  together  and  add 
last.  Place  the  mixture  in  a  greased  covered  mold  (a  pound  coffee  can  is  excellent)  and  set, 
weighted,  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  that  will  come  two-thirds  to  the  top  of  the  mold.  Cook 
in  this  way  or  in  a  steamer  for  two  hours  and  a  half.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  of  one  beaten 
egg,  one  cupful  of  honey  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  boiled  together.  Add  hot 
water  if  a  thinner  sauce  is  desired. 

Baked  Honey  Custard 

5  Eggs  4  Cupfuls  of  Scalded  Milk 

Yi  Cupful  of  Honey  Y  Teaspoonful  of  Powdered  Cinnamon 

Y  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Beat  the  eggs  sufficiently  to  unite  the  yolks  and  whites,  but  not  enough  to  make  them 
foamy.  Add  the  other  ingredients,  and  bake  in  cups  or  in  a  large  pan  in  a  moderate  oven. 
The  baking  dishes  should  be  set  in  water. 

Date  Custard 


2  Cupfuls  of  Milk  3  Eggs 

%  Cupful  of  Dates  (Stoned,  and  Y  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Cut  Into  Small  Pieces) 

Scald  the  dates,  with  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  and  add  to  them  the  milk,  dates 
and  salt.  Pour  the  mixture  into  greased  custard  cups  or  molds.  Set  the  cups  or  molds  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  the  custard  slowly  until  it  is  firm.  Cool  it,  remove  it  from  the 
molds  and  serve  with  or  without  cream  or  milk. 

Poached  Apples 


3  Apples  Y  Cupful  of  Water 

Y  Cupful  of  Corn  Sirup  A  Few  Grains  of  Salt 

Pare  and  slice  the  apples.  Boil  the  corn  sirup,  water  and  salt  together  for  ten  minutes. 
Add  the  apples  to  the  sirup,  and  cook  them  until  they  are  soft  when  pierced  with  a  fork. 
Remove  the  pieces  of  apple  carefully,  place  them  in  individual  dishes  and  pour  the  sirup 
over  them. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

2  Cupfuls  of  Pumpkin  (Stewed  and  Strained)  1  Teaspoonful  of  Ginger 

Yi  Cupful  of  Light  Molasses  Yi  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon  2  Eggs 

2  Cupfuls  of  Rich  Milk 

Mix  the  pumpkin,  molasses,  cinnamon,  ginger  and  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  and  add 
them  and  the  milk  to  the  mixture.  Bake  the  mixture  in  one  crust  until  it  is  firm. 

Soft  Honey  Cake 


Yi  Cupful  of  Butter  Substitute 
1  Cupful  of  Honey 
1  Egg 

Yi  Cupful  of  Sour  Milk 


1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 
Yi  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon 
Yi  Teaspoonful  of  Ginger 
4  Cupfuls  of  Flour 


9 


Rub  the  butter  substitute  and  honey  together;  add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  then  the  sour 
milk,  and  the  flour  sifted  with  the  soda  and  spices.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan. 

Honey-and-Nut  Bran  Muffins 

The  Department  of  Agriculture  heartily  recommends  the  use  of  honey  instead  of  sugar. 
These  recipes  using  honey  are  reprinted  from  Farmers’  Bulletin  No.  653. 

Yi  Cupful  of  Honey  1  Tablespoonful  of  Melted  Butter  Substitute 

1  Cupful  of  Flour'  1  Cupfuls  of  Milk 

34  to  34  Teaspoonful  of  Soda  M  Cupful  of  Finely  Chopped  English 

2  Cupfuls  of  Bran  Walnuts 

Sift  together  the  flour,  soda  and  salt,  and  mix  them  with  the  bran.  Add  the  other 
ingredients,  and  bake  for  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  in  gem  tins.  This 
will  make  about  sixteen  large  muffins,  each  of  which  may  be  considered  roughly  to  be  a 
100-calorie  portion  and  to  contain  two  grams  of  protein. 


War  Cake 


1  Cupful  of  Molasses 
1  Cupful  of  Corn  Sirup 
134  Cupfuls  of  Water 

1  Package  of  Raisins 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 


1  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon 
34  Teaspoonful  of  Cloves 

34  Teaspoonful  of  Nutmeg 
3  Cupfuls  of  Flour 
34  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 


Boil  together  for  five  minutes  the  first  nine  ingredients.  Cool;  add  the  sifted  dry  ingre¬ 
dients,  and  bake  in  two  loaves  for  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  cake  should 
be  kept  several  days  before  using.  It  makes  twenty  to  twenty-four  servings.  If  desired  one 
cupful  of  oatmeal  may  be  used  in  place  of  seven-eighths  of  a  cupful  of  the  flour. 


Soft  Molasses  Cookies 

1  Cupful  of  Molasses  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Warm  Water  or  Milk 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Ginger  34  Cupful  of  Fat 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda  Flour  to  Form  a  Soft  Dough 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  in  which  they  are  named.  Add  just  enough  flour  to  form 
a  soft  dough.  Turn  the  dough  on  a  floured  board,  roll  it  out  to  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thick¬ 
ness,  cut  it  and  place  it  on  a  greased  tin.  Bake  the  cookies  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes. 

Gingerbread 

1  Cupful  of  Boiling  Water  1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

34  Cupful  of  Molasses  1  Teaspoonful  of  Ginger 

1  Cupful  of  Fat  34  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

3  Cupfuls  of  Flour 

Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  molasses  and  fat  and  bring  the  mixture  to  the  boiling 
point.  Remove  it  from  the  fire  and  allow  it  to  cool.  Mix  the  soda,  ginger,  salt  and  flour,  and 
sift  them,  and  add  these  ingredients  to  the  first  mixture.  Bake  the  batter  in  a  shallow, 
greased  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 


Pecan  Cakes 


2  Eggs  %  Cupful  of  Flour 

34  Cupful  of  Molasses  34  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder 

34  Cupful  of  Corn  Sirup  34  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  Pecans  Chopped 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  and  add  the  molasses  and  corn  sirup  to  them.  Mix  and  sift  the 
flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  and  stir  these  ingredients  into  the  first  mixture.  Add  the 
chopped  nuts,  and  fill  shallow,  individual,  greased  tins  half  fuJl  of  the  mixture. 

Baked  Honey  Custard  With  Raisin  Cake 

Beat  three  eggs  slightly,  taking  care  not  to  make  them  foamy.  Add  slowly  a  quarter  of 
a  cupful  of  honey,  two  cupfuls  of  milk  (scalded),  an  eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
cinnamon  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake  in  cups  set  in  a  pan  of  water. 

Raisin  Cakes 

Cream  half  a  cupful  of  butter  substitute  and  half  a  cupful  of  warm  honey  together;  beat 
in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Beat  this 
mixture  thoroughly.  Sieve  three  cupfuls  of  flour  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder; 
whisk  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiffly ;  stir  these  into  the  lemon  mixture.  Add  a  little  more 


10 


flour,  if  the  dough  is  not  stiff  enough,  and  as  many  chopped  seedless  raisins  as  it  will  take. 
Turn  onto  a  floured  board;  roll  out  thinly,  cut  with  a  fancy  pastry  cutter,  sprinkle  with 
chopped  nuts,  place  on  a  floured  baking  tin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Fruit  Paste 


x/2  Pound  of  Figs  y  Pound  of  Chopped  Nuts 

y<z  Pound  of  Dates  Brown  Sugar 

Remove  the  stems  from  the  figs  and  the  stones  from  the  dates.  Put  the  fruit  and  nut 
meats  through  a  meat  grinder  and  combine  them.  Work  the  mixture  with  the  hands  until  it 
is  well  blended,  using  the  brown  sugar  to  keep  it  from  sticking.  Roll  the  mixture  to  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thickness;  cut  it  into  small  squares,  and  roll  each  piece  in  the  brown  sugar. 

Taffy  Squares 


2  Cupfuls  of  Light  Brown  Sugar  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water 

yi  Cupful  of  Molasses  %  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Vinegar  y  Cupful  of  Oleomargarine 

•  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Vanilla 

Boil  the  brown  sugar,  molasses,  vinegar,  water  and  salt  together  until  the  mixture 
becomes  brittle  when  it  is  tried  in  cold  water.  Add  the  oleomargarine  and  vanilla  and  turn 
the  mixture  into  a  greased  pan.  When  it  is  cool,  mark  it  into  squares. 

Butterscotch 


2  Cupfuls  of  Brown  Sugar  1  Cupful  of  Oleomargarine 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Vinegar  1  Cupful  of  Water 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  a  saucepan  and  boil  the  mixture  until  it  becomes  brittle  when 
it  is  tried  in  cold  water.  Pour  it  into  a  greased  pan  and  allow  it  to  cool.  When  it  is  cool,  mark 
it  into  squares. 

Maple  Gandy 


1  Pound  of  Rich  Maple  Sugar  1  Cupful  of  Chopped  Nuts  (Pecans  or 

M  Cupful  of  Rich  Milk  Walnuts) 

y±  Cupful  of  Boiling  Water 

Break  the  sugar  into  pieces  and  boil  it  in  a  saucepan  with  the  milk  and  water.  Boil  the 
sirup  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  it  is  tried  in  cold  water.  Remove  it  from  the  fire  and  beat 
it  until  it  is  creamy-  Add  the  nuts,  and  pour  the  candy  into  a  greased  tin.  When  it  is  cool, 
mark  it  into  squares. 

Raisin,  Nut  and  Honey  Bars 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  raisins  and  one  cupful  of  mixed  nuts  and  grind  them  together 
through  a  food  chopper.  Mix  them  with  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  honey  and  put  into  an 
enameled  pan.  Pack  under  a  weight  for  twenty-four  hours. 

Coconut  Dainties 

2  Egg  Whites  Vi  Cupful  of  Flour 

y2  Cupful  of  Corn  Sirup  2 y2  Cupfuls  of  Finely  Ground  Coconut 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff.  Add  the  corn  sirup,  fold  in  the  sifted  flour,  and 
add  the  coconut.  Drop  by  the  tablespoonful  on  greased  baking  sheets  and  bake  in  a  mod¬ 
erate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes. 


SUGAR-SAVING  HINTS 

THE  recent  sugar  shortage  has  brought  home  to  us  the  fact  that  we  need  not  be  dependent 
upon  white  sugar  for  sweetening.  Deprived  rather  suddenly  of  such  a  staple  article,  the 
average  housekeeper  was  at  first  somewhat  at  3.  loss,  but  soon  she  found  that  there  were  a 
goodly  number  of  sweets  which  could  be  used  to  replace  the  usual  stand-by.  Brown  sugar, 
maple  sugar  and  sirup,  molasses,  honey,  corn  sirup  and  dried  fruits,  such  as  raisins  and  dates, 
soon  came  to  have  a  part  in  the  daily  menu;  and  then  arose  the  question  of  how  much  of 
these  "camouflage”  sugars  should  be  substituted  in  customary  recipes.  For  this  reason  the 
following  facts  which  have  been  worked  out  may  be  of  interest: 

In  substituting  brown  sugar— when  we  are  lucky  enough  to  obtain  it— the  same  amount 
should  be  used  as  of  white.  A  cupful  of  brown  sugar  has  less  actual  sweetening  power  than 
white  sugar,  as  there  are  three  cupfuls  to  a  pound;  but  it  makes  up  in  flavor  what  it  lacks  in 
sweetness. 


ll 


In  using  maple  sugar  the  same  thing  is  true,  and  the  usual  recipe  will  be  as  successful  as 
ever,  the  texture  being  the  same  and  only  the  flavor  changing — often  for  the  better.  For 
most  of  the  city  dwellers  the  high  price  of  maple  products  puts  them  out  of  reach,  but  if  we 
are  fortunate  enough  to  be  near  the  source  of  supply  we  know  what  delicious  desserts  are 
maple  flavored. 

Maple  sirup  is  not  so  sweet  as  sugar,  and  when  used  to  replace  it  should  be  increased  by 
one-half.  Of  course  in  this  case  allowance  must  be  made  for  the  increase  of  liquid.  Usually 
the  amount  of  liquid  called  for  in  the  regular  recipe  should  be  halved. 

The  same  rule  holds  good  for  corn  sirup.  Once  and  a  half  again  as  much  sirup  must  be 
used  and,  to  make  up  for  a  certain  flatness  of  taste,  it  is  desirable  to  use  an  extra  amount  of 
flavoring.  Corn  sirup  seems  to  be  at  its  best  with  fruits  and  spices.  When  used  in  cakes  and 
cookies  better  results  are  obtained  if  sirup  is  substituted  for  only  half  the  sugar. 

We  must  not  forget  to  allow  for  the  liquid  which  the  sirup  adds.  It  has  been  a  common 
mistake  to  make  no  allowance  for  this  and,  in  consequence  of  adding  extra  flour  to  obtain  the 
necessary  thickness,  a  rather  "poor”  product  has  been  the  result.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sirup  to  one  cupful  of  sugar  improves  the  texture  of  fondant,  fudge  and  caramels,  and  it  may 
be  used  entirely  for  taffy  and  butterscotch. 

In  using  molasses  we  find  that  no  change  need  be  made  so  far  as  amounts  for  sweetening 
purposes  are  concerned  because,  like  brown  sugar,  what  it  lacks  in  sweetness  is  made  up  in 
flavor;  but  the  same  allowance  must  be  made  for  liquid  as  when  using  sirup — it  should  be 
halved.  When  molasses  is  used  in  cake  mixtures  soda  should  be  used  instead  of  baking 
powder,  in  the  proportion  of  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  one  cupful  of  molasses. 

Honey,  probably  the  longest-used  sweetening  in  the  world,  has  not  been  in  common  use 
for  cooking  purposes  recently.  It  has  a  distinct  flavor,  which  combines  well  with  spices,  and 
its  sweetening  power  is  about  the  same  as  that  of  sugar.  Honey  is  thicker  than  sirup,  so 
it  therefore  adds  less  liquid,  and  in  replacing  sugar  only  one-fourth  of  the  liquid  in  the  recipe 
need  be  left  out.  As  honey  is  slightly  acid,  soda  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  teaspoonful  to 
one  cupful  of  honey  should  be  used  in  cake  or  cooky  mixtures. 

The  sweetening  qualities  of  fruits  are  not  always  recognized,  but  when  raisins  or  dates 
are  used  the  sugar  may  be  appreciably  lessened.  If  twelve  cut-up  dates  are  added  to  two 
cupfuls  of  cooked  oatmeal  ten  minutes  before  serving,  no  sugar  will  be  required — unless  your 
family  has  a  very  sweet  tooth.  Raisins  added  to  dry  cereals  give  flavor  and  sweetness. 

With  all  these  sugar-saving  sweets  at  our  disposal,  we  shall  certainly  not  find  it  difficult 
to  cut  down  our  use  of  sugar  from  the  pre-wartime  amount  of  four  ounces  a  day  to  the  two- 
ounce  ration  which  the  Food  Administration  is  asking  us  to  make  our  maximum. 

WAYS  TO  SAVE  SUGAR 

BECAUSE  of  the  present  shortage  of  sugar  it  is  necessary  for  each  person  to  reduce  his 
consumption  of  sugar  to  three-quarters  of  a  pound  a  week.  There  are  so  many  sweet 
foods  that  may  be  used  in  place  of  sugar  that  this  should  be  no  hardship. 

Eliminate  candy. 

Use  less  sugar  in  tea  and  coffee,  and  substitute  other  sweetening  wherever  possible. 
Try  cooking  breakfast  cereals  with  chopped  figs,  dates  or  raisins.  You  will  not  need  to 
add  any  sugar  at  the  table. 

Use  molasses,  honey,  corn  or  other  sirup  for  sweetening. 

Use  apple  sirup  and  concentrated  cider. 

Get  the  Government  pamphlet  giving  directions  for  making  sirup  from  apples  and  other 
fruits.  Try  some  of  these. 

Use  fresh  fruits  for  desserts  in  place  of  rich  pastries  and  sweet  puddings. 

Bake  apples  or  pears  with  a  little  water  for  several  hours  until  a  rich  sirup  forms. 

If  more  sweetening  is  desired  add  a  little  honey  or  molasses. 

Stew  dried  prunes  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  until  the  liquid  is  almost  all 
boiled  away. 

If  more  juice  is  wanted  add  water  to  the  sirup. 

The  long,  slow  cooking  is  necessary  to  develop  a  rich  flavor. 

Cut  down  the  use  of  cake. 

Do  not  use  frosting  unless  you  can  make  it  without  sugar. 

Either  honey  or  maple  sirup  can  be  substituted  for  sugar  in  a  boiled  frosting. 

When  cake  is  made  it  should  be  made  not  only  wheat  saving,  but  sugar  saving  and  fat 
saving.  Try  making  cakes  in  which  corn  meal,  corn  flour,  rye  flour,  potato  flour,  rice  flour 
or  cornstarch  is  substituted  for  part  of  the  wheat  flour. 

Use  corn  sirup,  molasses,  honey  and  other  sirups  for  part  or  all  of  the  sugar. 

A  good  working  rule  in  making  such  substitution  is  to  use  one  cupful  of  sirup  as  equiva¬ 
lent  to  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  ofjiquid.  Corn  sirup  does  not  sweeten 
so  much  as  molasses  or  honey. 


12 


RECIPES  WITH  LITTLE  OR  NO  MEAT 
Roast  Goose  (Imitation)  With  Bread  Sauce 

Parboil  one  pound  of  liver,  then  slice  it  into  long  thin  pieces.  Put  a  layer  of  mashed 
potatoes  in  a  roasting  pan,  cover  with  slices  of  liver,  then  herb  stuffing,  and  again  more 
liver  and  stuffing.  Keep  the  layers  in  shape  to  resemble  a  goose.  Cover  all  with  a  thick 
layer  of  mashed  potatoes,  and  baste  every  ten  minutes  with  fat. 

Herb  Stuffing:  Chop  four  ounces  of  beef  suet  finely  and  mix  it  with  one  cupful  of 
bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  one  tablespoonful  of  sage,  some  thyme, 
the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  one  egg  and  add  to  the  mixture  with  a 
little  milk;  mix  well,  and  use. 

Bread  Sauce:  Put  one  cupful  of  milk  with  a  small  onion  into  a  saucepan;  bring  slowly 
to  the  boil;  add  half  a  cupful  of  bread  crumbs  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  substitute  and 
simmer  slowly;  remove  the  onion;  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Salmon  Croquettes 

Y  Can  of  Salmon  •  1  Cupful  of  Water 

Y  Cupful  of  Rice  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

Y  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  Y  Cupful  of  Flour 

Bread  Crumbs  Fat  for  Frying 

Cook  the  rice  in  three  cupfuls  of  boiling  salted  water  for  about  twenty-five  minutes, 
until  it  is  tender.  Drain,  and  pour  boiling  water  through  it  so  that  the  grains  are  distinct. 
Remove  the  bones  from  the  salmon  and  pick  it  into  bits.  Melt  the  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
fat;  add  flour,  and  cook  together  for  three  minutes.  Add  water,  and  cook  until  thickened. 
To  this  add  the  salt,  cooked  rice  and  salmon.  Chill.  Shape  into  croquettes.  Dip  these  in 
bread  crumbs.  Heat  the  fat  for  frying  until  it  begins  to  smoke.  Then  put  in  the  croquettes 
and  fry  a  golden  brown.  Remove  from  the  fat,  drain  on  paper,  and  serve  with  white  sauce. 

Baked  Haddock,  Stuffed 

1%  Pounds  of  Haddock  1  Tablespoonful  of  Grated  Onion 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat  Y  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

2  Cupfuls  of  Bread  Crumbs  Y  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 

Y  Cupful  of  Hot  Water 

Clean  the  haddock  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  stuffing  of  the  bread 
crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  onion  and  hot  water.  Stuff  the  fish,  brush  it  over  with  melted  fat, 
sprinkle  it  with  flour  and  put  it  on  a  rack  in  a  baking  pan  in  the  bottom  of  which  is  about 
half  a  cupful  of  hot  water.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  forty-five  minutes.  Baste  the  fish 
occasionally  to  keep  it  from  becoming  dry. 

Codfish  Balls 


1  Cupful  of  Salt  Codfish  1  Egg,  Well  Beaten 

iy2  Cupfuls  of  Potatoes  (Diced)  Y  Tablespoonful  of  Butter  Substitute 

•  Pepper 

Wash  the  fish  and  pare  the  potatoes.  Cook  the  fish  and  potatoes  in  boiling  water  until 
the  potatoes  are  soft.  Drain,  mash  the  potatoes,  mince  the  fish  very  fine  and  add  it  to  the 
potatoes.  Add  the  seasonings  and  egg.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  vegetable  fat  or  form 
into  small  balls.  Drain  on  brown  paper.  Garnish  with  bacon. 

Jellied  Fish 


2  Pounds  of  Any  Large  Steak  Fish  6  Stuffed  Olives 

2  Cupfuls  of  Strained  Tomatoes  1  Hard-Cooked  Egg 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Onion  Juice  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Granulated  Gelatin 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  6  Thin  Slices  of  Lemon 

The  fish  is  boiled  in  three  cupfuls  of  water  with  a  bay  leaf  and  a  small  piece  of  whole 
mace  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the  fish  with  a  skimmer,  return  the  stock  to  the  fire  and 
boil  rapidy  until  reduced  to  two  cupfuls.  Strain,  add  tomatoes,  onion  and  seasoning. 

Cover  the  gelatin  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  for  ten  minutes;  then  add  it  to 
the  boiling  stock.  Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  the  fish,  break  it  into  small  flakes  and 
put  into  a  bowl  or  a  mold  that  has  been  rinsed  in  cold  water.  C  lit  the  lemon,  egg  and  olives 
into  thin  slices,  put  around  the  edge  of  the  bowl,  then  slowly  pour  in  the  mixture.  Set  in  a 
cold  place  or  in  a  pan  of  finely  chopped  ice  until  firm ;  then  turn  out  on  a  chop  plate  that  has 
been  lined  with  shredded  lettuce.  Garnish  with  lemon  and  a  few  rings  of  stuffed  olives. 
Serve  with  tartare  sauce  or  salad  dressing. 


13 


Potted  Hominy  and  Beef 

Hominy  is  excellent  to  use  as  part  of  a  one-dish  dinner,  if  you  have  a  fire  in  your  stove 
so  that  you  can  cook  it  for  a  long  time,  or  use  a  fireless  cooker. 

Heat  one  quart  and  a  half  of  water  to  boiling;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  cup¬ 
fuls  of  hominy  which  has  been  soaked  overnight.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  four  hours  or 
in  the  fireless  cooker  overnight.  This  makes  five  cupfuls.  This  recipe  may  be  increased  and 
enough  cooked  in  different  ways  for  several  meals.  Hominy  is  excellent  combined  with  dried, 
canned  or  fresh  fish,  or  meat  and  vegetable  leftovers  may  be  used.  Here  is  one  combination: 

5  Cupfuls  of  Cooked  Hominy  M  Pound  of  Dried  Beef 

4  Potatoes  2  Cupfuls  of  Milk 

2  Cupfuls  of  Carrots  '  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

Melt  the  fat,  stir  in  the  flour,  add  the  cold  milk,  and  mix  well.  Cook  until  it  thickens. 
Cut  the  potatoes  and  carrots  into  dice,  mix  all  the  materials  in  a  baking  dish,  and  bake  for 
one.  hour. 

Planked  Finnan-Haddie  Dinner 

1  Small  Finnan  Haddie  1  Can  of  Spinach 

6  or  8  Potatoes  1  Onion 

2  Bunches  of  Young  Carrots 

Lay  a  small,  plump  finnan  haddie  (or  half  of  a  large  one)  in  a  pan,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Simmer  gently  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove; 
drain,  and  lay  flesh  side  up  on  an  oiled  plank.  Brush  over  with  olive  or  peanut  oil,  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  cover  with  thin  slices  of  onion.  Place  under  the  broiling  flame  of  the  gas 
oven  and  cook  until  the  onion  is  browned.  Have  ready  the  potatoes,  boiled,  mashed  and 
seasoned;  the  carrots,  scraped  and  boiled  in  salted  water,  and  the  spinach,  heated,  cut  fine, 
seasoned  and  the  water  pressed  out.  Make  a  border  of  potato  around  the  edge  of  the  plank, 
pressing  it  through  a  pastry  tube  or  arranging  with  a  knife  and  spoon.  Lay  the  carrots 
across  it  at  regular  intervals,  points  out,  and  fill  the  space  between  border  and  fish  with  the 
spinach.  Return  to  the  oven  until  the  potato  is  delicately  browned. 

Salmon  au  Gratin 

Make  a  sauce  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  substitute,  two  of  flour  and  two  cupfuls 
of  milk.  When  boiling,  smooth  and  thick  like  cream,  put  in  half  a  can  of  salmon  broken  in 
small  pieces.  Turn  this  into  small  fireproof  glass  casseroles,  cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs 
and  grated  cheese,  and  bake  until  brown  on  top. 

Fish  Chowder 

Y  Pound  of  Fish  1  Quart  of  Sliced  Potatoes 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Drippings  1  Medium-Sized  Onion,  Chopped  Fine 

3  Cupfuls  of  Milk 

Skin  and  bone  the  fish  and  cut  it  into  inch  cubes.  Cover  the  bone  and  trimmings  with 
cold  water  and  let  them  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Cook  the  onion  in  the  fat  for  five  minutes, 
then  pour  it  into  a  stewpan.  Parboil  the  sliced  potatoes  for  five  minutes;  then  drain,  and 
add  layers  of  fish  and  potatoes  to  the  fat  and  onion  in  the  stewpan.  Season  each  layer  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Strain  the  liquor  in  which  the  fish  bones  have  been  cooking  over  all,  and 
cook  for  about  twenty  minutes  until  the  fish  and  potatoes  are  tender.  Then  add  the  scalded 
milk.  If  desired  thicker,  sprinkle  a  little  corn  meal  between  each  layer  of  fish  and  potatoes. 

Baked  Salt  Fish 


2  Cupfuls  of  Salt  Fish  (Flaked)  .  1  Pint  of  Milk 

2  Cupfuls  of  Cold  Mashed  Potato  2  Eggs 

2  to  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Drippings 

Soak  the  flaked  fish  in  cold  water  overnight,  or  freshen  the  fish  by  boiling  up  several 
times  in  fresh  water  (usually  three  times  is  sufficient).  Then  simmer  until  tender.  Drain 
off  the  water.  Mix  the  potato  with  the  milk,  eggs,  fat  and  seasoning.  Add  the  fish,  turn  into 
a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 


Meat  Pies 


A  good  way  to  use  a  little  meat.  Have  you  ever 
for  a  crust?  This  is  less  work  than  a  pastry  crust  and 

4  Cupfuls  of  Cooked  Corn  Meal,  Rice  or  Hominy 

J1  Onion 

2  Cupfuls  of  Tomato 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat 


used  rice,  corn-meal  mush  or  hominy 
saves  wheat; 

Ys  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 
1  Pound  of  Raw  Meat  or  Leftover  Meat 
Cut  Up  Small 
Yi  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 


14 


Melt  the  fat;  add  the  sliced  onion  and,  if  raw  meat  is  used,  add  it  and  stir  until  the  red 
color  disappears.  Add  the  tomato  and  seasoning.  If  cooked  meat  is  used  add  it  with  the 
tomato  and  seasoning,  after  the  onion  is  browned,  and  heat  through.  Grease  a  baking  dish, 
put  in  a  layer  of  the  cereal,  add  the  meat  and  gravy,  and  cover  with  the  cereal  dotted  with 
tat.  Bake  for  half  an  hour. 

Beef  Stew 

\  ^°yn.d  of  ®e5f,  ,  „  A  Peck  of  Peas,  or  1  Car. 

4  Potatoes  Cut  Into  Quarters  1  Cupful  of  Carrots  Cut  Up  Small 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and  brown  it  in  the  fat  from  the  meat.  Simmer  in  two 
quarts  of  water  for  one  hour.  Add  the  peas  and  carrots  and  cook  for  half  an  hour;  then  add 
the  potatoes.  If  canned  peas  are  used  add  them  ten  minutes  before  serving.  Serve  when  the 
potatoes  are  done. 

Soy-Bean  Loaf 

Wash  well  and  drain  one  pound  of  dry  soy  beans;  place  them  in  a  saucepan  and  cover 
with  plenty  of  cold  water;  put  in  an  onion  stuck  with  a  clove,  a  little  salt,  a  bay  leaf  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  thyme  tied  in  a  little  muslin  bag;  cover  the  stewpan  and  cook  gently  until 
the  beans  are  tender  (about  six  hours)  but  unbroken;  add  more  water  if  required;  leave  the 
cover  off  for  the  last  half  hour  of  cooking  to  allow  the  water  to  reduce,  then  drain  the  water 
off  and  set  them  aside  to  cool.  W  hen  cold  put  them  through  a  food  chopper,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  stir  in  half  a  cupful  of  tomato  catchup,  two  canned  pimientos  and  the  whites 
of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine;  mix  well,  turn  out  on  a  floured  board,  form  into  a  loaf, 
brush  over  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs.  Place  in  a  greased 
pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Garnish  with  parsley. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Rabbit  in  Casserole 

1  Rabbit  1  Tablespoonful  of  Lemon  Juice 

M  Cupful  of  Drippings  or  Other  Fat  Paprika 

1  Cupful  of  Hot  Water  Salt 

2  Cupfuls  of  Meat  Stock  or  Thickened  Gravy  A  Bit  of  Bay  Leaf 

Dress  the  rabbit  and  separate  it  into  pieces  at  the  joints.  Season  with  paprika  and  salt. 
Cook  in  the  fat  until  a  golden  brown.  Transfer  the  meat  to  a  casserole  with  one  cupful  of 
hot  water,  and  cover.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  half  an  hour;  then  add  the  stock 
or  gravy,  lemon  juice  and  bay  leaf.  Continue  cooking  in  the  oven  for  about  three  hours. 

Mock  Chicken 


2  Cupfuls  of  Dry  Beans  1  Teaspoonful  of  Sage 

Y  Loaf  of  Dry  Bread,  Ground  to  Make  Fine  Crumbs  Y  Cupful  of  Hot  Water 
A  Cupful  of  Fat  Salt  and  Pepper 

Pick  over  the  beans;  wash  and  allow  them  to  soak  overnight  in  cold  water.  Drain,  and 
put  on  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  allowing  them  to  simmer  until  tender,  but  not  broken. 
Drain;  mash.  Make  a  stuffing  with  the  bread  crumbs,  melted  fat,  powdered  sage,  salt  and 
pepper.  Arrange  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  mashed  beans,  a  layer  of  stuffing  and  a  second 
layer  of  mashed  beans.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce. 

Sweet-Potato  Loaf 


6  Medium-Size  Sweet  Potatoes  1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar 

2  Eggs  (Beaten  Slightly)  A  Pinch  of  Nutmeg 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Butter  Substitute  Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste 

1  Cupful  of  English  Walnuts 


Boil  the  potatoes  until  soft.  Mash;  add  the  butter  substitute,  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper. 
Then  stir  in  the  eggs  and  nuts.  Form  into  a  loaf  and  bake  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  for 
about  thirty  minutes. 

Pea  Roast 


%  Cupfuls  of  Bread  Crumbs 
)/2  Cupful  of  Canned  Pea  Pulps 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar 
Cupful  of  Butter  Substitute 


1  Egg 

)/2  Tablespoonful  English  Walnut  Meats, 
Chopped  Fine 
Y  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 

%  Cupful  of  Milk 


Drain  the  canned  peas,  rinse  them  thoroughly,  cover  with  cold  water,  bring  them  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  them  simmer  for  three  minutes.  Drain,  and  force  through  a  puree 
strainer.  Mix  fine;  add  the  dry  bread  crumbs,  pea  pulps,  butter  substitute,  sugar,  nut  meats, 
the  egg,  slightly  beaten,  the  seasoning  and  milk.  Turn  into  a  small  breadpan  lined  with 
paraffin  paper  and  allow  to  stand  for  fifteen  minutes. 


15 


Green-Pea  Loaf 


1  Cupful  of  Dried  Green  Peas 
4  Cupfuls  of  Cold  Water 

2  Quarts  of  Boiling  Water 

lA  Cupfuls  of  Soft,  Stale  Bread  Crumbs 
lA  Cupfuls  of  Milk 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 


A  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 
A  Teaspoonful  of  Paprika 
A  Teaspoonful  of  Grated  Onion 
I  Egg 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat  (Oleomargarine, 
Beef  Drippings  or  Bacon  Fat) 


Soak  the  peas  in  cold  water  overnight.  Cook  them  in  boiling  water  until  they  are  soft* 
Rub  them  through  a  sieve.  To  one  cupful  of  this  pea  pulp,  add  the  bread  crumbs,  milk,  sea¬ 
soning,  egg  (slightly  beaten)  and  melted  fat.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  small,  greased  bread 
pan.  Set  this  pan  into  a  second  pan  containing  water.  Bake  the  mixture  for  forty  minutes, 
or  until  it  is  firm.  Remove  the  loaf  from  the  oven,  then  from  the  pan.  Serve  the  loaf  with 
plain  cream  sauce.  Half  a  cupful  of  cheese  may  be  added  to  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  the  sauce. 


XA  Pound  of  Kidney  Beans 
3  Slices  of  Onion 
A  Cupful  of  Rice 


Kidney-Bean  Stew 

1  Potato 

1  Cupful  of  Canned  Tomatoes 
l  A  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 


Soak  the  beans  overnight.  Drain,  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  soft.  About  one  hcur 
before  they  finish  cooking,  add  the  rice,  onion  and  tomato.  Half  an  hour  later  add  the  diced 
potato.'  Bind  the  liquid  with  the  fat  and  flour,  cooked  together. 

Spaghetti  and  Bean  Mold 


5  Ounces  of  Spaghetti 
\A  Cupfuls  of  Water 
A  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
1  Pound  of  Beans  (Weighed  After  Shelling) 


%  Pint  of  White  Sauce  (A  Milk  and  A 
Stock) 

A  Teaspoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley 
Salt  and  Pepper 


Cook  the  spaghetti  in  the  water,  coiling  it  under  the  boiling  water.  Skin  and  cook  the 
beans  in  salted  water.  Strain  and  mix  half  of  them  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of  the  sauce  and 
the  parsley.  Butter  a  mold  and  put  in  a  layer  of  sphagetti,  then  a  layer  of  beans;  repeat 
until  the  mold  is  full,  leaving  spaghetti  on  top.  Cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  steam  for 
forty  minutes.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  bean  water  to  the  rest  of  the  beans;  season  with  cayenne 
and  boil  up.  Turn  out  the  mold  on  a  hot  platter,  pour  part  of  the  sauce  around  the  mold  and 
serve  the  rest  in  a  gravy  bowl.  Serve  at  once. 

Curried  Bananas  With  Rice 


6  Bananas,  Peeled  and  Scraped 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butterine  or  Oil 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Currie  Powder 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Cornstarch 


A  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Table  Sauce 
1 A  Cupfuls  of  Milk 

2  Cupfuls  of  Cooked  Rice 


Cut  the  bananas  into  halves  lengthwise.  Fry  them,  until  they  are  quite  soft,  in  the 
butter,  which  has  been  mixed  with  the  currie  powder.  Put  the  bananas  into  a  serving  dish. 
To  the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan  add  the  cornstarch,  salt  and  table  sauce.  Mix  them  thor¬ 
oughly.  Add  the  milk.  Cook  the  mixture  until  it  is  smooth  and  thick.  Add  the  egg  to  the 
mixture,  and  pour  it  over  the  bananas.  Serve  the  cooked  rice  around  the  bananas. 

Macaroni  Croquettes  With  Potato  Sauce  (About  12  Croquettes) 


2  Cupfuls  of  Macaroni,  Broken  Into  Small  Pieces 
1  Cupful  of  Milk 
A  Cupful  of  Flour 


5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
A  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
Pepper 


Cook  the  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until  it  is  tender;  drain,  and  cut  it  fine.  Melt 
the  fat;  add  the  flour,  and  cook  for  three  minutes;  add  the  milk,  and  cook  until  well  thick¬ 
ened.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  in  the  macaroni.  Cool.  Shape  the  croquettes,  roll 
in  fine  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat,  heating  the  fat  until  it  begins  to  smoke  before 
putting  in  the  croquettes. 


Baked  Macaroni  With  Peanut  Butter 


1  Cupful  of  Macaroni 

2  Cupfuls  of  Milk 


3 A  Tablespoonfuls  of  Peanut  Butter 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
Cupful  of  Buttered  Bread  Crumbs 


Prepare  and  cook  the  macaroni  in  boiling  water  for  twenty  minutes.  Put  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  add  it  gradually  to  the  peanut  butter. 
Add  salt.  Pour  over  the  macaroni,  cover,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Sprinkle 
with  crumbs  after  removing  cover,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 


16 


Spaghetti  With  Vegetable  Dressing 

4  Slices  of  Bacon  y  Pound  Hot  Boiled  Spaghetti 

1  Slice  of  Onion  y2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Can  of  Tomatoes  y  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper  (to  Taste) 

1  Cupful  of  English  Walnuts 

Cut  the  bacon  into  small  pieces  and  try  out.  Add  the  remaining  ingredients,  except  the 
spaghetti.  Bring  gradually  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  for  fifty  minutes.  Pour  over 
the  cooked  spaghetti  and  let  stand  for  ten  minutes.  Serve  very  hot. 

I  o  cook  the  spaghetti,  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  spaghetti  and  dip  the  ends  in  boiling 
salted  water.  As  it  softens,  it  will  bend,  easily.  When  it  may  be  coiled  under  boiling  water, 
cook  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  soft.  Drain  in  a  colander.  Pour  over  one  quart  of  cold  water. 
Arrange  on  a  hot  platter. 

Baked  Lima  Beans 

1  Cupful  of  Dried  Lima  Beans  1  Small  Onion 

1  Pimiento  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil  or  Bacon  Fat  1  Teaspoonful  of  Paprika 


Soak  the  Lima  beans  in  one  quart  of  cold  water  for  several  hours,  or  overnight.  Drain 
off  the  water.  Put  the  beans  in  an  earthenware  dish  or  covered  casserole.  Fry  the  thinly 
sliced  onion  and  the  pimiento,  cut  into  small  pieces,  in  the  oil  or  fat  for  five  minutes.  Add 
them  to  the  beans.  Add  the  salt,  the  paprika  and  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  the  beans. 
Bake  the  mixture  slowly  until  the  beans  are  soft — about  two  hours.  Add  more  water  as  it  is 
needed.  If  the  beans  are  cooked  in  boiling  water  after  soaking  in  the  cold  water,  they  may 
be  baked  in  one  hour. 

Nut  Croquettes 

y  Pint  of  Peanuts  or  English  Walnuts  1  Teaspoonful  of  Onion  Juice 

1  Pint  of  Mashed  Potatoes  1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley 

Yolks  of  Two  Eggs  1  Saltspoonful  of  Pepper 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  y  Nutmeg,  Grated 


Chop  the  nuts;  add  them  to  the  potatoes,  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  all  the  seasoning. 
Form  into  cylinders.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  until  well 
mixed,  not  light;  roll  the  croquettes  in  this,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve 
with  nicely  seasoned  peas. 

Peanut  Loaf 


1  Cupful  of  Chopped  Peanuts  1  Tablespoonful  of  Butterine 

1  Cupful  of  Boiled  Rice  1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour 

Yi  Cupful  of  Milk  Seasoning 

Place  the  rice  and  peanuts  in  layers  and  make  a  white  sauce  out  of  the  milk,  flour  and 
butterine;  pour  over  the  rice  and  peanuts  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  fifteen 

minutes.  . 

Cottage  Cheese  and  Nut  Loaf 

1  Cupful  of  Cottage  Cheese  M  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 

1  Cupful  of  Nut  Meats  (Use  Those  Locally  Grown)  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Chopped  Onion 

1  Cupful  of  Stale  Bread  Crumbs  1  Tablespoonful  of  Oleomargarine,  Meat 

•  Juice  of  H  Lemon  Drippings  or  Vegetable  Oils 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Mix  the  cheese,  ground  nuts,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  the  onion  in  the  fat 
and  a  little  water  until  tender.  Add  to  the  first  mixture  the  onion  and  sufficient  water  or  meat 
stock  to  moisten.  Mix  well,  pour  into  a  baking  dish  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Cheese  Fondu 


1  Cupful  of  Grated  Cheese 
1  Cupful  of  Bread  Crumbs 
1  Cupful  of  Milk 
1  Egg 


1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat 
Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
y  Teaspoonful  of  Mustard 
y  Teaspoonful  of  Paprika 


Mix  the  cheese,  bread  crumbs  and  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Cook  this  mixture  until  the 
cheese  is  melted.  Add  the  beaten  egg,  the  salt,  mustard  and  paprika.  Cook  this  mixture 
until  it  is  thick  and  perfectly  smooth. 


Welsh  Rabbit  on  Toast 


y  Pound  of  Cheese 

Teaspoonful  of  Mustard 

1  Cupful  of  Milk 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

Melt  the  fat;  add  the  flour,  and  mix  well. 
Add  the  cheese,  cut  into  bits,  and  cook  until  it 
Serve  on  toast. 


2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
y  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
y  Teaspoonful  of  Vinegar 
Pepper 

Add  the  milk,  and  cook  until  thickened, 
is  melted.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar. 


17 


English  Monkey 


%  Cupful  of  Grated  Cheese  1  Egg  (Slightly  Beaten) 

z/i  Cupful  of  Stale  Bread  Crumbs  1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter  Substitute 

%  Cupful  of  Milk  A  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Cayenne 

Heat  the  milk;  add  the  crumbs  and  butter  substitute.  When  the  crumbs  are  well 
softened,  add  the  cheese.  Stir  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Add  the  seasoning  and  egg.  Pour 
over  crisp  crackers. 

Macaroni,  Virginia  Style 

\A  Cupfuls  of  Macaroni  1M  Cupfuls  of  White  Sauce 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter  Substitute  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Dried  Bread  Crumbs 

Ai  Cupful  of  Grated  Cheese  A  Cupful  of  Chopped  Ham  or  Bacon 

Break  the  macaroni  into  one-inch  pieces  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  for  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  soft.  Drain  in  a  colander,  and  pour  over  one  quart  cold  water.  Put  half  in 
a  greased  baking  dish,  dot  over  with  one-fourth  of  the  butter  substitute  and  sprinkle  with 
half  the  cheese.  Repeat;  pour  over  the  white  sauce,  cover  with  dried  bread  crumbs  mixed 
with  the  remaining  butter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  crumbs  are  brown. 

Oatmeal  and  Fish  Croquettes 

\A  Cupfuls  of  Cooked  Fish  1  Tablespoonful  of  Salt 

3  Cupfuls  of  Cooked  Oatmeal  Pepper  to  Taste 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Chopped  Onion  1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given  and  form  into  croquettes.  Dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  saute  in  hot  bacon  fat.  Serve  with  one  cupful  of  a  white  sauce  to  which  half  a  cupful  of 
chopped  peppers  has  been  added. 

Oatmeal  Omelet 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Bacon  Fat  or  Drippings  1  Chopped  Carrot 

1  Chopped  Onion  1  Chopped  Potato 

2  Cupfuls  of  Cooked  Oatmeal 

Cook  the  onion  and  the  carrot  in  the  fat  until  slightly  brown;  add  the  potatoes  and, 
when  well  mixed  with  the  fat,  add  the  oatmeal  and  cook  slowly  until  brown  on  the  bottom. 
Fold  like  an  omelet  and  serve  hot  with  a  cream  or  tomato  sauce. 

Oatmeal  With  Cheese  en  Casserole 

3  Cupfuls  of  Cooked  Oatmeal  IA  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  Grated  Cheese  A  Cupful  of  Bread  Crumbs 

Paprika 

Arrange  the  oatmeal  and  seasoning  in  alternate  layers  with  the  grated  cheese  in  a  baking 
dish  or  casserole.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  crumbs  are 
brown.  One  cupful  of  tomatoes  may  be  mixed  with  the  cereal. 


Oatmeal  Soup  Italienne 


1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat 
1  Small  Onion 
A  Green  Pepper 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour 


1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
1  Cupful  of  Cooked  Oatmeal 
3  Cupfuls  of  Milk 
A  Cupful  of  Grated  Cheese 


Melt  the  fat;  cut  up  the  onion  and  the  pepper  and  cook  in  the  fat  until  slightly  brown. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  flour  and  the  seasoning,  then  add  the  oatmeal  and  milk. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  smooth  and  thick;  strain  and  serve.  When  serving  at  the  table, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. 

Sweet-Potato  Omelet 


Boil  five  or  six  medium-size  sweet  potatoes.  When  cooked,  drain,  peel  and  put  them 
through  a  potato  ricer;  let  them  fall  lightly,  so  as  not  to  make  a  heavy  mass,  into  a  mixing 
bowl  containing  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Sift  into  this  mixture  half  a  cupful  of  flour  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  some  drippings 
in  a  pan  and  turn  the  mixture  in  carefully.  When  it  is  lightly  browned  fold  the  omelet  and 
slip  it  on  a  hot  dish;  pour  Spanish  sauce  around  it  and  serve.  For  the  sauce,  fry  two  onions 
in  fat;  add  one  cupful  of  stewed  tomatoes,  some  pepper  and  salt,  one  chopped  green  pepper 
and  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  celery.  Boil  for  five  minutes. 


Cereal  Omelet 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  until  they  are  lemon  colored;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot 
water  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  fold  them 


18 


lightly  into  the  yolks,  pour  the  mixture  into  a  greased  omelet  pan  or  fry'ing  pan  and  cook 
slow  ly  until  it  is  brow  n  on  the  under  side.  Have  ready  half  a  cupful  of  any  cold  cooked  cereal 
that  has  been  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  a  chopped  onion  and  one  teaspoonful  of  melted 
bacon  or  suet  fat,  spread  the  cereal  over  the  top  of  the  omelet,  fold  over  and  turn  out  on  a 
hot  platter.  Garnish  with  parsley.  It  should  be  served  at  once.  The  onion  may  be  omitted 
from  the  omelet,  and  the  cereal  may  be  sweetened  with  honey  if  preferred;  or  jelly  or  stewed 
raisins  may  be  used  to  make  it  a  sweet  omelet  if  desired. 

WAYS  OF  SAVING  FATS 
Old-Fashioned  Ginger  Bread 

Cream  hall  a  cupful  of  butter  substitute  and  half  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar;  add  one 
w  hole  egg,  and  beat  well.  Dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  water, 
and  stir  into  half  a  cupful  of  molasses.  Add  this  to  the  creamed  mixture,  with  one  cupful  of 
sour  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  barley,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  ginger;  beat  well.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Gingerbread  Made  with  Sausage  Drippings 

Vi  Cupful  of  Sugar  Cupful  of  Molasses 

73  Cupful  of  Hot  Water  1  Teaspoonful  of  Ginger 

2  Cupfuls  of  Flour  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 

5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Sausage  Drippings  3^  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

%  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 

Add  the  hot  wrater  and  the  drippings  to  the  molasses.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  sift 
them.  Add  the  liquid,  beating  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Bake  in  a  well-greased  shallow'  pan 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty-five  minutes.  Bacon  drippings  can  be  used  in  place  of 
the  sausage  drippings  in  the  recipe  if  preferred. 

Baking-Powder  Biscuits  with  Beef  Fat 

3  Cupfuls  of  Flour  6  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 

1  Cupful  of  Milk  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Beef  Fat 

1%  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  sift  them;  cut  in  the  fat  or  rub  it  in  lightly  with  the  finger 
tips.  Gradually'  add  the  milk ;  mix  with  a  knife.  Roll  or  pat  on  a  floured  board  to  about  half 
an  inch  thickness;  cut  into  rounds  writh  a  biscuit  cutter  and  put  into  a  baking  pan.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  for  about  twelve  minutes. 

Corn -Meal  Crust 

Grease  a  pie  plate  well.  Cover  with  raw'  corn  meal,  giving  the  plate  a  rotating  motion, 
so  that  an  even  layer  of  the  meal  will  stick  to  the  plate  about  a  sixteenth  of  an  inch  in 
thickness.  Fill  the  plate  with  pumpkin-pie  mixture.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Oatmeal  Crust 

2  Cupfuls  of  Finely  Ground  Oatmeal  1  Cupful  of  Boiling  Water 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Fat 

Scald  the  oatmeal  with  the  w'ater.  Add  the  fat,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Roll  very  thin 
and  line  small  pie  or  tart  tins  with  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Fill  writh  apricot  marma¬ 
lade  or  other  thick  mixture.  If  desired,  spread  a  meringue  on  top  and  brow'n  in  the  oven. 

Keep  a  “Butter  Cup” 

Save  the  small  amounts  of  butter  left  on  plates.  Scrape  it  into  a  cup  kept  for  that 
purpose.  Use  it  for  “special”  cooking. 

Use  Other  Fats  in  Place  of  Butter  and  Lard 

Chicken  fat  makes  good  pastry.  Solidified  vegetable  oils  are  valuable.  Oleomargarine 
may  often  be  used.  Drippings  and  bacon  fat  are  worth  their  weight  in  gold.  Use  these  in 
any  cooking. 

Learn  to  Use  the  Vegetable  Oils 

Use  corn  oil,  cottonseed  oil,  peanut  oil  and  olive  oil  for  cooking  and  frying  as  w'ell  as  in 
salad  dressing. 


19 


Meat  Trimmings  Are  Valuable 

If  you  buy  meat  get  the  trimmings,  try  out  the  fat  and  use  it  in  cooking. 

Substitute  Cheaper  Fats  for  Butter  in  Cooking 

Butter  is  not  all  pure  fat.  More  than  one-seventh  of  its  weight  is  made  up  of  water, 
cured  and  salt.  When  substituting  pure  fats,  such  as  beef  drippings,  lard,  chicken  fat  or  oil, 
for  butter,  use  about  four-fifths  as  much  fat  as  the  recipe  calls  for,  and  add  extra  salt. 

The  best  natural  fats  to  substitute  for  butter  in  flour  mixtures  are  rendered  chicken  fat 
and  beef  flank  fat.  The  cold  suet  from  the  beef  flank  is  much  softer  than  is  beef-kidney  suet 
and  may  be  used  to  good  advantage  in  pastries  and  cakes.  Mutton  suet  rendered  with  milk 
is  also  an  acceptable  butter  substitute. 

Use  the  Cracklings 

Grind  the  cracklings,  salt  them  and  put  them  in  a  glass  jar.  Use  them  in  corn-cake  or 
in  suet  pudding,  or  stir  them  with  diced  or  chopped  leftovers  of  meat  into  corn-meal  mush. 
Mold  the  mush,  and  saute  it  in  savory  fat  or  bacon  fat  to  serve  as  a  meat  substitute.  Deli¬ 
cately  browned  cracklings  may  be  eaten  with  salt  like  popcorn,  or  they  may  be  pressed  into 
a  loaf,  sliced  and  served  with  sliced  cold  meat. 

Do  Not  Waste  Any  Ham  or  Bacon  Fat 

Use  ham  or  bacon  drippings  and  the  clarified  fat  from  the  ham  kettle  for  scrambling 
eggs  and  makiflg  omelets;  for  frying  potatoes,  eggs  and  fish;  instead  of  butter  in  creole  and 
Spanish  sauces;  in  corn  bread,  molasses  cakes  and  spice  cakes;  with  baked  beans  and  peas; 
in  bean  and  pea  soups;  with  spinach  and  other  greens;  for  making  soap. 

Utilize  Mutton  Fat 

Make  mutton  fat  into  savory  fat  and  use  it  for  frying.  Mix  it  with  some  softer  fat  and 
use  it  in  spice  and  chocolate  cakes.  Render  it  with  lard  and  milk  as  follows,  and  use  it  as  a 
butter  substitute  with  vegetables:  Grind  two  parts  of  mutton  suet  with  one  part  of  leaf 
lard,  and  heat  the  whole  very  slowly  in  a  double  boiler,  with  whole  milk  (preferably  sour). 
Use  half  a  cupful  of  milk  to  each  pound  of  mixed  suet.  Strain  the  rendered  fat  through  a 
cloth  and,  when  it  has  set,  lift  the  cake  from  the  milk.  Mutton  fat  thus  rendered  may  be 
used  as  a  butter  substitute  in  c&oking. 

Make  a  Palatable  Sausage  Substitute 

Season  the  cracklings  with  salt,  pepper  and  poultry  seasoning,  adding  stale  bread  crumbs 
or  leftover  cereal  and  a  little  egg.  Form  the  mixture  into  small  cakes  and  fry  it  in  a  little 
fat. 

Disguise  the  Flavor  or  Odor  of  Certain  Fats 

A  savory  fat  that  is  excellent  to  use  for  frying  and  in  gravies  may  be  made  by  browning 
with  each  pound  of  suet  a  thick  slice  of  onion,  one  sour  apple  and  a  scant  teaspoonful  of 
ground  thyme  or  mixed  herbs  tied  in  a  cloth.  If  desired,  omit  the  ground  herbs  and  substi¬ 
tute  half  a  bay  leaf  and  a  few  allspice  berries. 

Save  Cream 

Households  in  which  cream  is  now  freely  used  may  with  care  reduce  the  amount  con¬ 
sumed  without  greatly  lessening  the  attractiveness  of  the  meals.  “Top  milk”  may  be  used 
in  tea  and  coffee  and  on  cereals,  baked  apples,  etc.  Unless  the  meal  is  otherwise  lacking  in 
fat,  cream  desserts  should  be  sparingly  used.  Substituting  water  ices  made  with  fresh  fruits 
for  ice  cream  not  only  saves  fat,  but  utilizes  “perishables.” 

Save  Butter 

We  may  save  table  butter  by  serving  smaller  portions;  not  because  we  should  attempt 
to  decrease  materially  the  use  of  butter  on  the  table,  but  because  so  often  the  portion  served 
is  larger  than  is  needed  or  even  desired.  Although  that  which  is  left  on  the  butter  plate  might 
be  utilized  for  cooking,  cheaper  fats  should  be  used  for  that  purpose. 

When  you  do  make  pies,  use  one  crust  instead  of  two. 

Try  the  New  England  deep  apple  pie,  with  only  a  top  crust. 


20 


Use  the  vegetable  fats  instead  of  animal  fats  in  making  the  pastry. 

If  vegetable  oils  are  used,  the  quantity  of  fat  may  be  reduced  by  one-third ;  that  is,  two 
tablespoonfuls  and  three  quarters  of  oil  to  one  cupful  of  flour  is  sufficient.  The  oil  itself 
helps  to  moisten  the  flour  so  that  very  little  water  is  necessarv.  The  dough  should  be  made 
as  dry  as  possible  to  make  a  tender  pastry. 

Do  not  fry  in  deep  animal  fat. 

Bake  croquettes  in  the  oven. 

Make  meat  loaf  instead  of  meat  croquettes. 

Either  do  not  use  recipes  calling  for  a  large  quantity  of  fat  or  try  reducing  the  amount. 


TABLE  SHOWING  EXCHANGE  VALUE  OF  FATS 


MATERIAL 

1  Tablespoonful  Oleomargarine  . 

1  Tablespoonful  Commercial  Fat  Compouud . 

1  Tablespoonful  Chicken  Fat  (Clarified) . 

1  Tablespoonful  Goose  Fat . 

1  Tablespoonful  Fat  From  Beef  and  Mutton  (Clarified) 

14  Tablespoonfuls  Lard . 

14 14  Tablespoonfuls  Hardened  Vegetable  Fat . 

1  Cupful  Grated  Chocolate  in  Cake  . 

1  Cupful  Cream,  Thin . 

1  Cupful  Cream,  Whipping  (40  per  cent) . 

2  Cupfuls,  5  Tablespoonfuls,  Suet,  Chopped . 


EQUIVALENT 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter 
1  Tablespoonful  Butter 
1  Tablespoonful  Butter 
1  Tablespoonful  Butter 
1  Tablespoonful  Butter 
16  Tablespoonfuls  Butter 
16  Tablespoonfuls  Butter 
3  Tablespoonfuls  Butter 
3  Tablespoonfuls  Butter 
6  Tablespoonfuls  Butter 
16  Tablespoonfuls  Butter 


Take  Care  of  the  Fat  Used  for  Deep  Frying 


Avoid  burning  the  fat.  Burning  is  indicated  by  a  deep  blue  vapor  and  an  acrid  odor. 
Burned  fat  is  injurious  to  the  digestive  tract.  Keep  the  fat  kettle  covered  while  heating  the 
fat  and  while  it  is  cooling  down.  Before  setting  the  fat  away,  remove  burned  particles  by 
straining  it  through  coarse  muslin  placed  over  a  wire  strainer.  Keep  the  fat  covered  when  it 
is  not  in  use. 


HOW  TO  OMIT  BUTTER  AND  SAVE  ANIMAL  FATS  IN  COOKING 

Breads:  Fats  may  be  omitted  entirely  if  desired.  Use  clarified  pork  or  beef  fat,  oleo¬ 
margarine,  hardened  vegetable  fats,  fat  compounds. 

Hot  Breads,  as  Biscuits,  Muffins,  Pancakes:  Use  clarified  pork  or  beef  fat,  oleomar¬ 
garine,  hardened  vegetable  fats,  fat  compounds,  sour  cream. 

Cakes,  as  Cookies,  Cup,  Chocolate,  Spice,  Ginger:  Use  clarified  beef  fat,  chicken  fat, 
pork  fat,  hardened  vegetable  fats,  oleomargarine,  fat  compounds,  sour  cream,  grated  chocolate. 

Puddings:  Use  clarified  beef  fat,  chicken  fat,  oleomargarine,  sour  cream,  chopped  suet. 

Pastry:  If  pastry  is  used,  let  it  be  plain,  not  rich.  Use  hardened  vegetable  fats,  oleo¬ 
margarine,  fat  compounds. 

Sauteing:  Use  vegetable  oils,  clarified  beef  fat,  pork  fat,  especially  bacon  fat,  chicken 
fat,  savory  fats. 

Deep  Frying:  Use  oils,  fat  compounds,  clarified  beef  fat,  pork  fat,  mutton  fat,  com¬ 
bined  with  other  fats.  But  save  fats  by  doing  as  little  frying  as  possible. 

To  Clarify  Fat:  Heat  any  sweet  drippings  from  beef,  pork,  mutton,  with  boiling 
water,  constantly  stirring.  When  the  fat  and  water  has  boiled  freely,  set  aside  dish  to  cool. 
Remove  cold  fat  and  again  heat  to  drive  out  all  water.  Put  in  crock  for  use. 

Savory  Fats:  Any  fat  warmed  with  a  leaf  of  summer  savory  and  a  clove  of  garlic  may 
be  used  in  sauteing  potatoes,  hominy,  rice. 

Soap  Fats:  Fats  which  can  no  longer  be  used  for  deep  frying,  leftover  fats  which  are 
not  quite  sweet,  may  be  put  in  a  crock  to  save  for  fall  soap-making  for  home  cleaning. 
Recipe— Dissolve  one  can  of  lye  in  one  quart  of  water;  cool.  Add  six  pounds  of  fat,  melted 
but  not  hot;  stir  until  white.  Pour  into  pan  and  cut  into  squares  as  it  hardens.  Let  it  dry 
thoroughly  before  using.  If  the  soap  is  to  be  white  the  fat  must  be  clarified. 

IF  NOT  BUTTER,  WHAT? 

THAT  is  the  question  we  immediately  ask  after  hearing  Mr.  Hoover’s  warning:  “No 
butter  in  cooking;  use  substitutes.” 

We  know  there  are  other  kinds  of  fats— suet,  lard,  margarine,  “drippings,”  poultry  fat 
and  oils— but  we  don’t  know  just  how  to  select  them  for  use  in  place  of  butter,  for  in  the  last 
analysis  there  is  no  perfect  butter  substitute. 

When  selecting  butter  substitutes  the  principal  facts  to  consider  are  the  purpose  for 
which  the  fat  is  to  be  used  — whether  for  cooking,  for  frying  or  for  seasoning— the  quality  and 
the  price.  All  the  different  edible  fats  give  practically  the  same  amount  of  nourishment. 


21 


Take  suet  as  an  example:  When  the  beef  or  mutton  suet  and  scraps  of  fat  cut  from  meat 
before  cooking  have  been  “rendered  ”  and  clarified  they  can  be  used  in  many  ways.  Keep  a 
scrap  can  on  the  back  of  your  stove  and  put  into  it  all  the  tiny  bits  of  fat  and  gristle  that 
might  otherwise  be  thrown  out  as  waste.  When  the  can  is  half  full,  “  render  ”  or  cook  it. 

To  do  this  put  the  fat  through  the  meat  chopper  and  then  melt  it  in  a  double  boiler  until 
all  the  fat  has  melted.  Strain  the  fat,  while  melted,  through  a  cloth  fine  enough  to  keep  back 
bits  of  gristle  and  tissue.  When  suet  is  finely  cut  the  fat  will  separate  easily  from  the  gristle 
and  tissue  just  after  melting  and  so  there  is  no  danger  of  scorching.  It  is  important  that  the 
fat  be  melted  at  as  low  a  temperature  as  possible,  because  if  overheated  in  “rendering ”  it  will 
not  keep  so  well.  After  straining  the  fat,  heat  it  again  carefully  to  drive  off  moisture  and  to 
sterilize  it. 

When  suet  has  an  undesirable  flavor  or  odor  which  is  not  too  pronounced  it  can  be 
partly,  if  not  entirely,  removed  by  heating  the  suet  with  a  good  grade  of  charcoal.  Add 
twelve  pieces  of  clean  hardwood  charcoal,  about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  to  each  pound  of 
chopped,  unrendered  fat,  then  “render”  the  fat  as  described  above.  Let  the  charcoal  remain 
in  the  melted  fat  for  about  two  hours;  occasionally  stir  the  mixture.  In  straining  the  fat  use 
flannel  or  other  closely  woven  cloth  in  order  to  remove  all  the  fine  particles  of  charcoal.  If 
the  odor  is  very  pronounced  use  more  charcoal  and  heat  the  mixture  for  a  longer  time.  Add 
a  little  salt  after  straining,  which  gives  it  somewhat  of  a  butter  flavor. 

This  rendered  beef  and  mutton  fat  may  be  used  in  place  of  butter  in  making  cakes  and 
pastry  if  the  amount  of  fat  in  the  recipes  where  shortening  is  required  is  reduced  one-sixth. 

After  rendering,  suet  may  also  be  used  for  frying.  The  temperature  of  fat  during  deep- 
fat  frying  makes  quite  a  lot  of  difference  in  the  amount  of  fat  which  the  food  absorbs.  For 
instance,  a  doughnut  batter  fried  in  beef  fat  absorbs  the  least  amount  of  fat  when  the  fat  is 
hot  enough  to  golden  brown  a  cube  of  bread  in  half  a  minute,  or  well  brown  it  in  a  minute 
and  a  half.  This  is  usually  360  degrees  Fahrenheit. 

If  the  doughnut  is  fried  in  the  same  fat  at  20  degrees  Fahrenheit  lower,  or  340  degrees 
Fahrenheit,  it  absorbs  about  twenty-five  per  cent  more  fat.  This  twenty-five  per  cent  is  a 
pretty  big  percentage  to  lose  when  trying  to  economize.  In  order  to  get  the  most  from  the  fat 
in  deep-fat  frying,  heat  beef,  mutton  fat  or  lard  to  the  test  given  above;  heat  vegetable 
fats — cottonseed  oil,  coconut  fat  and  others — until  the  cube  of  bread  is  cooked  to  a  golden 
brown  color  in  half  a  minute  or  is  well  browned  in  one  minute. 

Beef  and  mutton  fat  may  be  mixed  with  lard  to  make  a  good  shortening.  When  this  is 
done  a  good  proportion  is  one-half  beef  or  mutton  fat  to  one-half  lard.  It  may  be  used  in  the 
same  proportion  as  butter  wherever  a  recipe  calls  for  butter. 

Some  fats,  such  as  beef  or  mutton  suet,  are  sometimes  too  hard  for  satisfactory  short¬ 
ening.  By  mixing  with  softer  fats,  like  lard  or  cottonseed  oil,  they  may  be  softened  as  much 
as  desired.  One  way  of  doing  it  is  to  grind  together  two  parts  of  unrendered  beef  or  mutton 
fat  and  one  part  of  lard.  Then  render  in  a  double  boiler  as  described.  If  half  a  pint  of  skimmed 
milk  is  added  to  each  two  pounds  of  the  mixture,  before  rendering,  the  flavor  is  improved. 

Another  way  to  soften  hard  fat  is  to  mix  three  parts  of  unrendered  beef  or  mutton  fat, 
which  has  been  ground  finely,  and  one  part  lard.  Render  this,  like  the  other,  in  a  double 
boiler.  If  the  beef  or  mutton  fats  are  rendered  they  may  be  softened  by  adding  the  lard  or 
cottonseed  oil  to  them,  melting  the  mixture  and  thoroughly  mixing.  Lest  the  lard  fat  should 
separate,  occasionally  stir  these  mixed  fats  while  they  are  cooking.  The  flavors  of  the  beef 
and  mutton  are  softened  by  this  process. 

Other  ways  in  which  beef  drippings  may  be  used  are  for  seasoning  such  dishes  as  mac¬ 
aroni  and  tomatoes  and  tomato  sauce,  for  seasoning  bread  dressings  and  for  basting  fish. 
Bacon,  sausage,  lamb  and  ham  fats  may  also  be  used  like  this.  When  bacon  is  baked  in  the 
oven  it  is  easy  to  collect  the  excess  fat  and  save  it  for  future  use.  Cook  the  bacon  strips  on  a 
rack  so  that  it  does  not  absorb  its  own  drippings. 

Sausage  drippings  will  lower  the  cost  of  a  dish  of  Boston  baked  beans  by  using  half  a 
cupful  of  sausage  fat  instead  of  the  usual  half-pound  of  pork  (salt).  Sausage  drippings  are 
also  very  good  as  shortening  for  gingerbread.  Use  the  same  amount  of  drippings  that  the 
recipe  requires  for  shortening. 

When  you  buy  chicken  or  other  poultry  save  the  fat,  and  render  and  clarify  it  just  as  you 
would  suet.  There  is  always  much  fat  right  under  the  skin.  This  fat  may  take  the  place  of 
one-half  the  amount  of  shortening  called  for  in  spice-cake,  cooky  or  biscuit  recipes. 

Making  savory  fats  is  another  way  to  obviate  any  undesirable  flavor  in  the  mutton  or 
beef  fat.  They  are  made  by  adding  some  strong  seasoning,  like  thyme,  or  marjoram  or 
summer  savory,  to  the  fat.  These  fats  are  useful  in  frying  croquettes  and  warming  up 
vegetables,  since  they  give  a  spicy  flavor  to  the  food. 

One  savory  fat  is  made  by  adding  one  slice  of  onion  about  half  an  inch  thick  and  two 
inches  in  diameter,  one  teaspoonful  of  broken  bay  leaves,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  an 
eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  to  one  pound  of  unrendered  fat  which  has  been  chopped 
fine;  then  render  the  mixture  in  a  double  boiler,  and  strain. 

Another  savory  fat  is  made  by  adding  one  slice  of  onion  about  half  an  inch  thick  and  two 
inches  in  diameter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  thyme,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  an  eighth  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  pepper  to  one  pound  of  unrendered  fat,  rendering  the  mixture  in  a  double 


22 


boiler  and  straining.  A  third  way  to  make  savory  fat  is  to  add  one  teaspoonful  of  marjoram, 
one  teaspoonful  of  thyme,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  rubbed  sage,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  an 
eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  to  one  pound  of  unrendered,  finely  chopped  fat;  render  in 
a  double  boiler  and  strain  through  a  fine  cloth. 

If  you  want  to  prepare  a  savory  fat  from  fat  that  has  already  been  rendered,  modify  the 
previous  recipes  by  melting  the  fat  and  adding  the  seasoning.  Use  the  same  proportions  as 
for  the  unrendered  fat  recipes,  and  gently  heat  the  mixture  for  an  hour  or  longer,  then  strain. 

Here  is  a  recipe  for  savory  fat  from  a  rendered  one:  Add  one  onion,  one  sour  apple  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  ground  thyme  or  other  sweet  herb  tied  in  a  small  cloth  to  one  pound  of 
rendered,  melted  fat.  Cook  on  the  back  of  the  stove  or  in  the  oven  until  apple  and  onion 
are  well  browned.  Strain  through  a  fine  cloth. 

If  you  do  not  like  these  particular  flavorings,  or  there  are  others  you  prefer,  change  them 
to  suit  your  taste.  Be  sure  to  strain  all  the  savory  fats  through  flannel  or  other  closely  woven 
cloth,  so  that  all  the  bits  of  the  herbs  are  removed  before  putting  the  fats  away. 


23 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


