
•ucu.^^^^ 



NATURE CURE 



(FORMERLY CALLED WATER CURE) 



Home Treatment without Medicine 




WILHELMINE H. KUEPPER 

Nature Cure Physician 



' Better be unborn than untaught ; for ignorance is the root of misfortune." — Plato. 



THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY 

PHILADELPHIA 

CHICAGO TORONTO 

1905 



COPYRIGHTED 1905 
BY WILHELMINE H. KUEPPER 



Publiihed October 1905 



/PS 



ERRATA 



Page 106. — Omit reference to Fig. 21 in foot note. 



Pages 160 and 185. — Omit reference to Fig. 18 in 
foot note. 

Page 189.— For Fig. 26 read Fig. 25, and for Fig. 
25 read 26. 

Page 191.— For Fig. 21 read Fig. 17. 

INTRODUCTION 

PART I. 

NATURE CURE AND MEDICINE. 



Explanation of Method 15 General Hygienic Rules 61 

Hydropathy 33 Directions for Successful 

Massage-Orthopedy 36 Nursing 62 

Diet 41 Parentage 65 

The Air-Bath 46 Pregnancy 67 

The Sun-Bath 49 Childbirth 71 

Physical Culture 52 Healthy Children 77 

Cheerfulness 59 Sickness 81 

PART II. 

DISEASES TREATED. 

Albuminuria 83 Appetite (abnormal) 86 

Anaemia 83 Asthma 86 

Angina Pectoris (nervous Basedow's Disease (Morbus 

heart pain) 84 Basedowii) 87 

Appendicitis 85 Birthmark 76 

Appetite (lost) 86 Bow-Legged Children 88 



COPYRIGHTED 1905 
BY WILHELMINE H. KUEPPER 



Published October 1905 



IPS ^ 

l&cktM. 



NATURE CURE 



OR 



Home Treatment Without Medicine 



CONTENTS. 



INTRODUCTION 7 

PART I. 

NATURE CURE AND MEDICINE. 

Explanation of Method 15 General Hygienic Rules 61 

Hydropathy 33 Directions for Successful 

Massage-Orthopedy 36 Nursing 62 

Diet 41 Parentage 65 

The Air-Bath 46 Pregnancy 67 

The Sun-Bath 49 Childbirth 71 

Physical Culture 52 Healthy Children 77 

Cheerfulness 59 Sickness 81 

PART II. 

DISEASES TREATED. 

Albuminuria 83 Appetite (abnormal) 86 

Anaemia 83 Asthma 86 

Angina Pectoris (nervous Basedow's Disease ( Morbus 

heart pain) 84 Basedowii) 87 

Appendicitis 85 Birthmark 76 

Appetite (lost) 86 Bow-Legged Children 88 



4 



CONTENTS 



Breasts, sore 126 

Broken Bones 88 

Burns 90 

Carbuncle and Furuncle 91 

Catarrh of the Stomach 

(acute) 91 

Catarrh of the Stomach 

( chronic ) 93 

Catarrh of the Bowels 94 

Catarrhal Pneumonia 94 

Cholera Infantum 94 

Cold in the Head 95 

Colic 96 

Constipation 96 

Consumption 97 

Corns 99 

Cough 99 

Croup (membranaceous) ... 99 

Curvature of Spine 100 

Dandruff 101 

Diabetes Mellitus 101 

Diarrhoea, Flux, Dysentery . . 103 

Diphtheria 104 

Eczema 107 

Epilepsy 107 

Fainting 110 

Fall, Concussion of the Brain.llO 

Fever 110 

Flatulence 112 

Flux (see Diarrhoea) 112 

Gall-Stones 112 

Gonorrhoea 114 

Gout 116 

Grippe (influenza) 117 

Headache 117 

Heart Trouble (valvular) ...118 
Heart Trouble (nervous) ...119 



Haemophilia 120 

Hair falling out 121 

Hemorrhage 121 

Hysteria 123 

Infantile Paralysis 124 

Inflammation of the Brain. . . 125 

Intestinal Indigestion 126 

Itching 126 

Lumbago 126 

Lung Trouble 126 

Mastitis (sore breasts) 126 

Measles 127 

Melancholy 129 

Nervous Dyspepsia 129 

Nervous Prostration 130 

Nettle-Rash 131 

Neuralgia 131 

Neurasthenia 132 

Neuritis 132 

Nose Bleeding 133 

Obesity ( stoutness ) 133 

Object in Eye, Ear, Nose 134 

Operations 135 

Palpitation of the Heart. . . .137 

Peritonitis 137 

Piles 139 

Pleurisy 140 

Pneumonia 142 

Poisonings, Sores, Wounds . . .143 

Puerperal Fever 145 

Rash 146 

Rheumatism 147 

Rickets 149 

Ringworm 150 

Roseola I5i 

Scarlet Fever 151 

Sciatica 152 



CONTENTS 



Scrofula 153 

Self- Abuse 155 

Sleeplessness 157 

Smallpox 158 

Sores 159 

Sore Throat 159 

Sprained Ankle 160 

Stricture of the Bowels 160 

Syphilis 162 

Tapeworm 166 

Teething 166 



Thrush 167 

Typhoid Fever 168 

Uremia 171 

Vaccination 172 

Vomiting 173 

Warts 174 

Waterbrash 174 

Whooping-Cough 174 

Worms 176 

Wounds 177 

Yellow Jaundice 177 



PART III. 
TREATMENTS EXPLAINED. 



Packs 181 

Abdominal Pack 184 

Ankle Pack 185 

Arm Pack 185 

Calf Pack 185 

Chest Pactc 186 

Dry Pack or Sweat 186 

Eye Pack 187 

Foot Pack 188 

Kidney Pack 188 

Leg Pack 188 

Partial Nerve Pack 1 188 

Partial Nerve Pack II 189 

Three-Quarter Nerve Pack. . .189 

Spinal Pack 190 

Tampon 190 

Throat Pack 191 

Trunk Pack 191 

Whole Nerve Pack 191 

Baths 192 

Alternate Sitz Bath 192 



Sitz Bath 193 

Alternate Foot Bath 194 

Bed Steam-Bath 194 

Compress, Vapor 201 

Eye Bath 195 

Face Bath 195 

Head Bath 195 

Half Bath 196 

Mouth Bath 196 

Sand Bath 197 

Spinal Patting 198 

Sponge Bath 198 

Trunk Bath 198 

Vapor Bath 199 

Enema 200 

Foot Steam 200 

Fomentation or Vapor Com- 
press 201 

Head Vapor 201 

Pour or Gush 202 

Potato Poultice 202 



6 



CONTENTS 



Remaining Enema 203 

Self Massage 203 

ee of the Head 203 



Massage of the Stomach 203 

Massage of the Throat 204 

Inhaling Vapor 204 



PART IV- 
HYGIENIC COOKING. 



Breadsticks 207 

Diet, Dry (Schroth Cure) . . .208 

Diet, Mild 209 

Grape Juice 207 

Gruenkom 207 



Konut 207 

Lahmann's Cocoa 206 

Lemon Spice 207 

Menus 210 

Naehrsalz 206 



RECIPES. 



Bread 222 

Compotes 244 

Dinner and Supper dishes, 

various 235 

Drinks 254 

Dumplings 231 

Eggs 237 

Meats 238 

Pancakes 232 

Potato dishes 229 



Puddings and Creams, cold.. 249 

Puddings, warm 246 

Salads 230 

Sauces for meats and vege- 
tables , 240 

Sauces, sweet 242 

Soups, cold 220 

Soups, hot 215 

Vegetables 224 

Vegetable Slices 234 



INTRODUCTION 



"The most precious possession of a country and society is man. 
Every life represents a certain value. To keep it intact to its end is 
not only humane, but in their own interest, the duty of any Com- 
monwealth." — Prince Rudolf of Austria. 

"Follow Nature; she is the best teacher, and makes never a mis- 
take." — Pestalozzy. 

THE very best thing man can possess is health, 
and wise are they who strive to regain and 
keep it. 

A great reform movement in medicine is going on 
now. It is gaining daily, and the "thinking" people 
of our time see its need. 

To supply this need there has appeared quite a 
number of ' ' cures ' ' or healing methods ; for, what the 
people want, ever so many endeavor to provide. 
Nature Cure, formerly called "Water Cure," though, 
crowns all other methods. It gives to our bodies 
what Nature herself uses in creating and maintaining 
a healthy physique — air, light, sun, water, whole- 
some food, to which we add proper dress, dwellings, 
exercise and rest, according to need, and with mas- 
sage as a substitute for exercise, and as a healing 
factor in many chronic diseases. 

For more than fifty years in Germany it has had 



8 NATURE CUBE 

a hard fight against medicine, but now it is more and 
more recognized there, and forms part of the curri- 
culum in some of their medical universities. In the 
United States quite a number of Nature Cure Sani- 
tariums have been established and flourish, among 
others the Battle Creek Sanitarium, in Battle Creek, 
Mich.; Dr. Carl Strueh's Sanitarium, Chicago; Sani- 
tarium Jungborn, at Bellevue, Butler, N. Y. ; Dr. 
Sheppard's, 81 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y., 
and many others. Let us follow their example by 
spreading it for the benefit of suffering humanity, 
and by helping to bring up a healthier generation. 

How soon we lose respect for a man who professes 
to know that with which he is not conversant, or to 
be that which he is not. No business man can long 
keep our confidence if he prove ignorant of the 
principles of his work. To-day we find, more than 
ever, schools for training our young people for the 
various walks of life, and for rendering them more 
fit to be good and able citizens. 

If this is so necessary elsewhere, why should not 
the future parents of the land receive some instruc- 
tion as to the duties of their high and holy calling? 
Do we value the physical body so lightly that we can 
afford to remain in ignorance of its most funda- 
mental hygienic laws ? 

Surely not. Then why should not our young men 
and women be most carefully instructed in the duties 
of fatherhood and motherhood? Why should they 
be allowed to enter into that most sacred of relation- 
ships more ignorant than even the lower animals! 



INTRODUCTION 9 

These, by nature, are protected to a degree through 
their instinct, a power almost, if not wholly, lost to 
man, through centuries of wrong living. If reforms 
are ever necessary — if society, or the human race, is 
to be radically benefited, here we must begin, and our 
young people must be taught that their physical 
bodies are the "Temples of the Lord," and to use 
them and respect them as such. If this book helps 
some to such an uplifting of their ideas, and so 
results in some happy homes, where disease, with its 
train of evils, is properly met and naturally defeated, 
the writer will feel that her life has not been in vain. 
We want to feel, with the great poet, that 

"All are but parts of one stupendous whole 
Whose body Nature is, and God the soul." 

Marriage, as we all know, is fundamentally for the 
reproduction of the race. "Multiply and replenish 
the earth" is a Divine command, which lays upon us 
a duty, and those who enter into married life and 
undertake the fulfilment of this command should see 
to it that they fulfill not only the letter but the spirit 
of the law, and so produce only healthy offspring. 
To do otherwise is a crime. Sickly, ailing weaklings 
have no cause to be grateful to those who gave them 
life. Far from it, they will curse them for their 
misery, and as the sins of the fathers were visited 
on them, so by their example they, in turn, do like- 
wise; and thus it happens that every generation 
grows weaker, and that it is rare, even now, to find 
a person with a perfect physique. This must stop, 
and everyone should do his part in this reform. 



10 NATURE CUBE 

How can we stop it? By learning on what our health 
depends. It depends upon the natural life — factors 
common to all creatures — air, light, water, food and 
drink, exercise and rest. To those must be added 
proper clothing, dwelling, etc. If these life-factors 
are natural to us, then the conditions of health are 
fulfilled ; otherwise we shall grow sick. 

What is sickness? It is an incomplete change of 
matter in our bodies, caused by a wrong way of 
living. In olden times most people were strong and 
healthy, and the weak and sickly were despised. 
They were strong because they lived close to Nature 
and did not take any medicine. Imagine Adam and 
Eve taking medicine ! 

Man has strayed away from Nature, and the pun- 
ishment is disease. Let us go back to Nature, and in 
order to do this let us take for our example the large 
animals of the lower order. They are out-of-doors in 
all kinds of weather, summer and winter. As few of 
us can be out-of-doors all the time, let us do the next 
best thing — sleep with open windows, and take out- 
of-door exercise as much as possible; walk to our 
business, instead of riding in close cars filled with 
bad air, and ventilate well our offices, workshops, 
schoolrooms, etc. 

Our skin is an excreting and breathing organ, 
therefore it ought to come in contact with the air. 
But most people wear so much clothing, tightly 
woven, that it is impossible for the skin to act well ; 
and as the skin is doing incomplete work, the balance 
which it does not do falls on the inner organs — lungs, 



INTRODUCTION 11 

kidneys, liver, bowels, etc. As many organs are not 
strong enough to do this double work for years and 
years they finally give out, and serious disturbances 
follow. Therefore take air baths at least every 
morning and evening, and do not overdress. 

Air is more important to us than food, because we 
can live without the latter for weeks, but not an hour 
without air. Our dwellings should be dry, sunny and 
well ventilated. 

After you have grown strong through a hygienic 
way of living, enter into married life — ^not frivo- 
lously and imprudently, for it is the most important 
step in life. Make the union only with a healthy 
partner, and let your physician inform and advise 
you about everything you ought to know concerning 
this new phase of life. 

This book is intended to instruct its readers how to 
live in order to produce a healthier generation, and 
how to help themselves when sick. We shall aim to 
explain the different forms of treatment, so that they 
will be thoroughly understood and successfully ap- 
plied. As it is richly illustrated, there ought to be no 
difficulty in understanding its explanations. 

My esteemed teacher. Dr. Max Boehm, has kindly 
permitted me to use his book, and to select quotations 
from it, for which special favor I owe him many 
thanks. 

In order to do your part in helping mankind, follow 
the Doctor's advice: "Give every bride friend a 
book of natural hygiene ; teach all children in school 
how to live right ; make them hygienists of their own 



12 NATURE CURE 

bodies, and the future happiness of mankind is as- 
sured. ' ' 

This book will supply a much-felt want; it will 
teach you to become your own physician, as every- 
body naturally ought to be. And after you are well 
it will teach you how to live in order never to grow 
sick again, for sickness is punishment for a wrong 
way of living. We ought to be well and die of old 
age without disease, like the animals in their natural 
state. "Nature Cure" ought to be in every house, 
for although when sick you may call in a physician, 
there are many instances where relief from pain, 
health, and even life, depends on quick action before 
the doctor can arrive ; for instance, in hemorrhages, 
poisoning, burns, wounds, hydrophobia, infantile 
paralysis, sprained ankle, fainting, epilepsy, broken 
bones, concussion of the brain, besides those sudden 
painful attacks which almost always come during the 
night — gout, whooping cough, asthma, colic, etc., etc. 
You will feel so much more happy knowing if any 
of these attacks should befall one of your dear ones 
that you could give effectual help. 

And you will save the cost of the book a hundred- 
fold if you only follow its directions in one case of 
sickness, being convinced at the same time that 
Nature Cure treatment cannot do any harm to the 
patient, but will improve him with every application. 

All physicians and nurses ought to have it, for 
they more than anybody ought to advance with the 
most important science in the world, physical dietetic 
therapy, which recently has made and is making such 
great strides. 



INTRODUCTION 13 

Medical science has searched in vain for thousands 
of years for means to conquer and abolish disease, 
but with the increase of medicines the diseases have 
increased instead of diminishing. The vitality of our 
own body is the main curative power in the world, 
which we have only to direct and to assist when it is 
weak. 

WiLHELMINE H. KuEPPER. 

Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa. 



PART I. 
NATURE CURE AND MEDICINE 



First follow Nature, and your judgment frame 

By her just standard, which is still the same ; 

Unerring Nature, still divinely bright; 

One clear, unchanged, and universal light, 

Life, Force, and Beauty, must to all impart. 

At once the source, and end, and test of art. — Pope. 

DUEINGr the past century great advancement 
in natural sciences and in medicine has been 
made. The advancement in medicine has 
kept pace with that of all other sciences, except in 
one department, therapeutics. By this we do not 
mean to say that therapeutics was not or is not 
advancing, but that the advancement is due, not 
to what is commonly understood as medical science, 
but to the development of Nature Cure science. This 
progress, therefore, is not along the old beaten paths 
of pharmacology, but by what we may caU physical 
dietetic therapy. We shall try to show the differ- 
ence between the therapeutics as developed by 
Nature Cure science and the therapeutics of regular 
medicine, which difference is of vital importance. 
Since the body is an organism possessing natural 
healing powers. Nature Cure treats the ailments 
more in a general way than locally. The aim of 

15 



16 NATURE CURE 

Nature Cure is to conquer the cause of the disease, 
not merely to suppress the symptoms. 

Nature Cure applies natural healing factors rather 
than foreign substances, such as medicines. The 
body is not a conglomeration of single parts — heart, 
lungs, liver, etc. — put into a box or frame. It is an 
organism where the whole works for the existence of 
the parts, and vice versa, and where the principle of 
compensation is shown to a high degree. 

All parts are closely united by the blood-vessels, 
lymphatics and nerves ; therefore anything which dis- 
turbs or impairs a single organ affects the whole 
body, and the body endeavors to resist and throw off 
anything injurious to any one part of it. This proc- 
ess we call natural healing power. This is easily 
proved by such physiological phenomena as when a 
bone is broken, directly this healing power sends a 
cement (callus) to the place of fracture to unite the 
ends, and then sets diligently to work to build up 
tissue and the healing process is complete. A bleed- 
ing takes place from a wound. What does this heal- 
ing power do? It stops the flow by coagulating the 
blood. If something is eaten which cannot be 
digested, or which upon entering the blood would 
harm the body (as in the case of poisoning),' this 
natural healing power tries to expel it by vomiting 
and by diarrhoea. When a blood-vessel is destroyed 
by a wound, then the smaller blood-vessels, capilla- 
ries, in the locality, which are connected with this 
blood-vessel, enlarge to sufficiently provide that part 
of the body with blood (collateral circulation). 



NATURE CUBE AND MEDICINE 17 

^ When one kidney is unable to act, then the other 
kidney enlarges and does double duty. In cases 
where one ventricle of the heart, because of a dis- 
eased condition of the valves, has an abnormal 
amount of work to do, it enlarges to meet the extra 
demand. When by disease of the lungs, tuberculosis, 
etc., the upper parts cannot expand enough, the lower 
parts expand the more in order to take in the neces- 
sary amount of oxygen (vicarious emphysema, i. e., 
one for another). 

These are only simple examples, but this natural 
healing power is just as active in the most compli- 
cated diseases and in the highest functions of the 
body. Usually diseased organs are treated locally 
by medicines or applications. For instance, in 
paralysis, an ice-bag on the head ; for headache, elec- 
tric current directly through the head; in stomach 
troubles, medicines which work directly on this 
organ; in inflammation of the mucous membrane of 
the uterus, curetting and cauterizing; in throat dis- 
eases, gargling and cauterizing. In diphtheria it was 
some time ago customary to destroy the coating by 
cauterizing with nitrate of silver or carbolic acid, by 
which method sore places were not to be avoided, this 
only causing the disease to spread. This dangerous 
practice was recognized by the allopaths themselves, 
and is now entirely abandoned in Germany. By such 
local treatment the diseased organ is irritated still 
more, and eventually overworked by the extra task 
of expelling the morbid matter. Such a practice 
seems in the light of our present development crude 



18 NATURE CUBE 

and mechanical. Nature Cure teaches us to spare the 
diseased organ as much as possible, and following 
the above-mentioned indications of Nature to work 
directly through the regulation of the circulation, in- 
creasing the excretions and the change of matter. So 
we should for a headache apply electricity to the neck 
and forearms; for inflammation of the throat, a 
derivative massage, foot packs, foot steams, etc. The 
single treatment must be adapted to the case, so that 
under some circumstances a local treatment may 
properly be applied as well as the general — for in- 
stance, a nasal spray, Thure Brandt massage, etc. 
We may regard many symptoms of disease as an 
evidence of the natural healing power to expel injuri- 
ous matter. Nature Cure tries to remove the cause 
of disease, through which proceeding the symptoms 
disappear. We can see this best in an example. A 
patient who, owing to his occupation, is forced to 
remain in a sitting position all day, eats the average 
boarding-house diet of much meat and eggs, in conse- 
quence of which he soon visits his physician, complain- 
ing of headache, cold feet, loss of appetite, constipa- 
tion, piles, and all the signs of a bad circulation, con- 
gestion of the liver and disturbances of the portal 
circulation produced by the above unwholesome way 
of living. The regular practitioner will probably 
give him consecutively a special medicine for each 
symptom — one for headache, one for constipation 
and another to create an artificial appetite, while if 
the piles are large enough he may advise an opera- 
tion. In consequence of this treatment the patient 



NATURE CURE AND MEDICINE 19 

will have a few days' diminution of his complaint; 
but the relief does not last long if the sedentary 
occupation is resumed and the patient continues his 
diet, which overcharges his digestive organs. Con- 
sequently the same symptoms return, since the cause 
has not been removed. Nature Cure, instead of this 
symptomatic treatment, would proceed mainly thus 
( special treatment being naturally adapted to the in- 
dividual case) : Kegulation of the circulation by gen- 
eral massage, hot foot-baths, foot steams, drawing 
the blood from the abdomen by breathing exercises 
and other gymnastics, advising the patient to coun- 
teract the sedentary life which his occupation may 
demand by exercise in the open air. His diet should 
contain very little meat, but a great deal of fruit, 
green vegetables, rice, salads, and his drinks — if he 
must drink — should consist of lemonade or butter- 
milk. In this way the injurious influences will be re- 
moved and the bad symptoms disappear perma- 
nently. On the same principle it is not advisable to 
stop the symptoms of diarrhoea by opium, as the in- 
testines use this means to cleanse the body from 
impure matter. Nor is it advisable to give opium 
indiscriminately to relieve pain. (Nature Cure can 
in most cases do the same thing by derivative treat- 
ment or by the use of cold or steam compresses, etc.) 
It is the practice of many physicians to remove imme- 
diately all that is not quite normal, which is quite 
contrary to the natural healing power. For instance, 
it is impossible to check at once a gonorrhoea by injec- 
tions of sulphate of zinc, nitrate of silver, tannic acid, 



20 NATURE CUBE 

bichloride of mercury, protargol, resarcin, etc. The 
great number of these remedies prove their ineffi- 
ciency. The discharge may be suppressed by them 
for a while, but sooner or later the patient will have 
an inflammation of the upper part of the urethra, 
catarrh of the neck of the bladder, inflammation of 
the prostate or of the loose connective tissues of the 
perineum. In short, he will have all the symptoms 
of a chronic gonorrhoea with all the innumerable suf- 
ferings. For the same reasons it would be unwise 
to suppress or remove all eruptions very quickly, be- 
cause they are a process of excretion, and ought to be 
recognized as an endeavor of the natural healing 
power to expel poison. 

For a woman suffering from insomnia, narcotics 
such as hydrate of chloral may produce drowsiness 
for a night without removing the cause of the sleep- 
lessness, so that she must take any drug in increasing 
doses, in order to find out in the end that she has 
nervous prostration. If we take the trouble to inquire 
into her way of living, we find that she takes strong 
coffee in the morning, beefsteak and tea for supper, 
goes into society, to the theatre and concerts, after 
which she eats again, and goes to bed after midnight. 
By simply changing the mode of life of such a patient 
she would in a very short time enjoy natural sleep, 
and thus greatly strengthen her nervous system. 

Coughing is a reflex action to expel irritating 
mucus, caused by hypersecretion of an inflamed 
mucous membrane. If we weaken this action by 
drugs we work against Nature and retard the cure. 



NATURE CUBE AND MEDICINE 21 

We have mentioned above the compensatory ability 
of the organs. One often observes, especially in 
children during the disturbances of the bowels, erup- 
tions of the skin, showing how closely bowels and skin 
are in sympathy. Thus we can also understand that 
one can influence skin diseases by regulating the 
actions of the bowels and by dieting, and indeed we 
often see that eruptions which have long been treated 
unsuccessfully by salves, and only suppressed tem- 
porarily, are permanently cured by Nature Cure 
treatment. 

Let us now consider fever from this stand- 
point. Fever is a combination of disturbances in the 
body, an increase in the change of matter, an abnor- 
mal condition of the skin. These symptoms may be 
caused by disturbances in the central nervous sys- 
tem. It is, therefore, not simply the rise in tempera- 
ture which measures the degree of fever. Fever is 
usually regarded as something harmful to the body, 
a disease in itself, and therefore to be suppressed. 
Nature Cure regards it as a reaction of the body to 
overcome the disease, as a natural endeavor of the 
healing power to expel morbid matter. This in- 
creased change of matter is, therefore, the primary 
symptom which causes the secondary, the increased 
production of heat. Thus we are led to conclude that 
in acute infectious diseases the fever must be consid- 
ered as the consequence of an invasion of foreign 
living cells entering into a struggle for life with the 
cells of the tissues. The fever takes place for the 
preservation of the latter and the destruction of the 
former. The following observations lead us to such 



22 NATURE CUBE 

a theory : We know that the microbes, spirilli of re- 
lapsing fever, or typhus recurrence, disappear after 
the attack of fever. The attacks of fever of the 
various types of malaria are caused also by the in- 
crease of the malaria germs (sporalatio of the ma- 
laria Plasmodium). According to our theory, one 
would infer that the degree of fever would corre- 
spond to the seriousness of the disease, which, how- 
ever, is not always the case, for we often see in a low 
temperature a fatal end, as in diphtheria, sepsis or 
meningitis. 

These inferences, however, would be correct if all 
people were alike. But how different we are in con- 
stitution, development and mode of living ! Each has 
his locus minoris resistentice. One has a greater re- 
sistive power than another. In one case a good re- 
action overcomes the illness quickly with powerful 
symptoms ; in another case the reaction is too weak to 
show itself, or the enemy is from the beginning so 
strong that all resistance is useless. Strong men 
often overcome small disturbances without fever, 
while in weak women and children the organism 
needs quicker action, fever. In fever the skin is dry ; 
the secretion of perspiration, the natural compensa- 
tion of an increased production of heat, is checked. 
In many cases we see that after profuse perspiration, 
steam baths or bed steam baths, packs work better 
here than the antipyretics, which produce perspira- 
tion in the beginning by enlarging the vessels of the 
skin ; but they have their point of attack in the center 
of the nervous system, while by the means of Nature 



NATURE CUBE AND MEDICINE 33 

Cure the reflex action, perspiration, is reawakened. 
On the other hand, it may happen that the natural 
healing power of the body may be too powerful, as 
shown in the extremely high temperatures, which in 
themselves may become alarming. In this case Na- 
ture Cure asserts itself, and it also lowers the tem- 
perature with surer and less dangerous means, such 
as sponge baths, quickly changed packs or baths of 
decreasing temperature. Such means of treatment 
have the invaluable advantage of decreasing the 
fever, reviving the strength of the heart, improving 
the respiration and calming the nervous system. On 
this account many practitioners of medicine have ac- 
cepted our treatment for typhoid fever. Many cases 
of pneumonia end fatally through weakness of the 
heart, and in typhoid fever through the secondary 
hypostatic-pneumonia, and it is just in these cases 
that Nature Cure has gained her first and greatest 
triumphs. (In many cases the natural healing power 
is weak, either because it was so from the beginning 
or because exhausted from many vain efforts to con- 
quer the disease.) 

Hippocrates of old declared fever to be a splendid 
healing power. Professor Harless, of Bonn, said, 
"Give me the power to create fever and I will 
cure any disease." Nature Cure can create a kind 
of artificial fever which it can measure by de- 
grees and stop at will, by various steam applications, 
sun baths, dry diet, etc. Thus we have seen that in 
all cases, as well as in fever, it is the duty of the 
physician to regulate the action of the natural heal- 
ing power and direct it into the right channels and 



24 NATURE CURE 

not to suppress it, for which just as much physio- 
logical and medical knowledge is necessary as for the 
writing of a prescription. The natural, physiologi- 
cal, dietetic healing factors are air, light, water, 
warmth, cold, rest, motion and diet, as opposed to 
drugs. Why are the above healing factors called 
natural ones? Because they are derived from the 
structure and function of the body. According to the 
law of preservation of strength and matter, physical 
and vital powers are most closely connected. Water, 
air, light, warmth, etc., are for a healthy organism in- 
dispensable necessities. Should they not be fit also 
in a methodical, well-regulated way, artificially ap- 
plied, to influence the sick organism favorably? 
These factors are then a related, adequate stimu- 
lation to the cells and are not foreign. What effect 
these factors have on the organism we see that by the 
deviation of their normal action, health and life are 
endangered. All these healing factors such as light, 
air, sun baths, steam baths, packs, massage and 
Swedish movements, proper diet and water applica- 
tions, in their manifold forms, may be exactly indi- 
vidualized, their effect measured and have no injuri- 
ous secondary effects. This cannot be said of drugs. 
It is clearly proved by experiments that certain 
chemical compositions have a certain effect upon the 
body. For instance, atropin enlarges the pupil of the 
eye and increases the number of heart beats ; brom. 
potasi. reduces the reflex excitation of the brain, 
while strychnine increases that of the spinal cord; 
digitalis reduces and regulates the heart beats, in- 



NATURE CURE AND MEDICINE 25 

creasing at the same time the pressure of the hlood ; 
quicksilver alters the change of matter, namely, it 
prevents the emigration of the white corpuscles, thus 
preventing inflammation, and antimony causes vomit- 
ing. There are quite a list of medicines which cause 
diarrhoea, partly by producing vehement motions of 
the intestines, partly by causing diffusions of serum 
into the intestines. There are also medicines to pro- 
duce perspiration. Others reduce the temperature. 
In this way it is possible for medicines to suppress 
certain symptoms of disease and cause a temporary 
relief (let alone those harmful accessory effects con- 
nected with them) , but they do not cure. First, not in 
the sense of specifics; there are no specifics. It is 
against the law of nature to demand for each single 
disease a specific remedy like poison and anti-poison. 
It is a vain effort of therapy to find specifica. It will 
never succeed, in spite of its scientific investigation, 
because it is against Nature and against the nature of 
disease. 

Disease should be regarded as a disturbance of 
functions which can be conquered only by helping the 
organism to re-establish normal conditions through 
application and regulation of those stimulants which 
keep up the functions of normal organism. It is just 
the symptomatica! treatment of medicine which 
proves that the medicines given do not work as spe- 
cifica. So called, in the sense of medicine, there are 
only three— quinine for malaria; salicylic acid for 
acute inflammatory rheumatism, and quicksilver for 
syphilis. Quinine has a decided influence on the 



26 NATURE CUBE 

fever attacks of malaria. Sometimes the swollen 
joints of rheumatism decrease through the use of 
salicylic acid, and syphilitic symptoms disappear 
through the use of mercury. But, in spite of all this, 
they are not specifica. They work only temporarily 
and symptomatically. This is proved first by the 
facts observed by every physician, that in many cases 
they have no effect, and second that, in spite of their 
use, a relapse and a secondary disease occurs. How- 
ever great the success of bacteriology, however 
proud medical science may be of it, little has up to 
this time resulted from it for therapy. It will always 
remain a vain effort to kill microbes after they have 
entered the body and begun to multiply there except 
the remedies were introduced in such amount or con- 
centrated form as to destroy also the cells of the 
body. Thus it has been unsuccessful, and it will al- 
ways remain difficult to kill, for instance, tubercle- 
bacillus by the aid of chemical means or through in- 
halations. In all the various treatments of tubercu- 
losis, one has always come to the same result. This 
was also the final decision of the Berlin Tuberculosis 
Congress about twenty months ago. Nature Cure 
brings the patient into the most favorable conditions 
of life, nourishing diet, fresh air, etc., and makes thus 
the organism able to resist the intruded enemy. 

Even on the exterior, surgery, for good reasons, 
has replaced the antisepsis by asepsis. One ought to 
choose by internal diseases rather a "natural asep- 
sis." The effect of medical remedies is not suffi- 
ciently understood. A single glance into the history 



MATURE CURE AND MEDICINE 27 

of medicine is sufficient to prove this. The first 
knowledge of medicine is but rough empiricism. 

Even to-day the post hoc, ergo propter hoc plays a 
great role, we are sorry to say. Later, from the be- 
ginning of the sixteenth century, when medical sys- 
tems prevailed at certain periods and led to one-sided 
false ideas, the founders of those 878 terms chose and 
brought into use those medicines which suited their 
pathological theories. When in the past century ex- 
perimental work gained firm ground in the realm of 
physiology and pathology, pharmacology also began 
experimenting in order to find out the qualities and 
effects of all drugs in the most simple and uniform 
circumstances. But those results gained by experi- 
ments on animals cannot be applied indiscriminately 
to man. It is wrong to compare a pound of cat or dog 
to a pound of man. Just as daring to adopt the final 
experiments made on a well person to an ill one. The 
much affected and partially degenerated heart mus- 
cle of a person ill with typhoid fever or tuberculosis 
reacts from stimulants in a manner different from 
that of a person in health. Experimenting on pa- 
tients is even more risky, and oftentimes the drugs 
most used are the least understood. According to 
the authorities, morphine is said to produce sleep 
through contraction of the blood-vessels of the brain. 
Recently, others think it produces a direct effect on 
the nervous system. 

We do not know whether quinine, which kills 
microbes outside of the body, will, when administered, 
just as well directly kill the germs of disease and 



28 -NATURE CURE 

malaria within the body, or whether it changes only 
the nutritive soil, that is, human protoplasm. The 
"how" is not clear. We could mention nearly all the 
most-used drugs. If these old, "well-tested" drugs 
are but so little understood in their effects, what 
about those that change continually, like fashion, 
patent medicine, etc., daily brought into the market 
by factories? Often the chemical composition of 
these preparations is scarcely known, and much 
less is the physiological effect tested. If each of these 
so much praised remedies is so good and specific a 
cure for different diseases, why do they disappear so 
quickly from the market to make room for new ones ? 
The fact that the effects of most drugs, as we have 
seen, is not sufficiently known and explained makes it 
further clear that they often show besides the in- 
tended symptomatic effect a succession of incalcula- 
bly harmful secondary effects, so that the devil is 
driven out by "Beelzebub, the chief of devils." A 
troublesome symptom of a disease may have disap- 
peared through medicine, but in its place several dis- 
agreeable medical symptoms have appeared, which 
are nothing else than more or less serious symptoms 
of poisoning, sometimes injuring the organism per- 
manently. 

The singing noticed in the ears and quinine in- 
toxication, after large doses of quinine, is well 
known. Even after the use of two or three grammes 
of salicylic acid, roaring in the ears, deafness and 
sometimes vomiting and urticaria show themselves. 
In acute rheumatism it is given in doses up to ten 



NATURE CUBE AND MEDICINE 29 

grammes within twenty-four hours; we need not be 
surprised to see secondary effects, such as great dis- 
turbances of digestion, lasting deafness, asthma and 
mental excitement. The continued use of brom. 
causes cutaneous eruptions, indigestion, heart affec- 
tion, trembling of muscles, mental depression and 
weakness of memory. After a continued use of sul- 
fonal appears weakness of the muscles and often 
nephritis and destruction of the red corpuscles of 
the blood. 

Often many people suffering from stomach 
trouble or locomotor ataxia, who were treated with 
nitrate of silver, show during the rest of their lives a 
steel gray discoloration of the whole skin. Some 
physicians deny a third stage of syphilis, and bring 
the serious bone and nervous diseases of old syphilit- 
ics into original connection with former mercurial 
treatment. However, it is certain that part of the 
quicksilver given is retained in the body for a longer 
time. Even if in our day quicksilver is not given in 
such amounts that the patient, as in former times, 
starves from mercurial ulcers and necrosis of the 
jaw, it is practically well known to every physician 
of to-day that the use of quicksilver causes very often 
an inflammation of the mouth. Serious irritations 
of the kidneys appear through the use of cantharides 
and chloride of potash. After the use of balsam of 
copaiba, turpentine and sandalwood oil one soon 
notices loss of appetite, belching, vomiting, diarrhoea, 
eczema, sometimes albuminuria and hsematuria. 
From the use of antifibrin one has to reckon on seri- 



30 NATURE CUBE 

ous secondary effects. Besides vomiting and rash 
there appear stupor and cyanosis, sometimes swelling 
of the liver, uterus and, after continued use, anaemia. 
One might go through all the drugs and would 
scarcely find one without injurious secondary effects. 
Secondary effects of drugs do not appear in all indi- 
viduals in the same way, nor after the same amount, 
for this depends on the sensibility of the organism 
and the personal susceptibility to a certain poison. 
Here we touch our point, viz., that the effect of medi- 
cine individually is very different. Every physician 
has had patients with a so-called idiosyncrasy. We 
understand by this why some individuals cannot 
stand certain drugs, even in a quantity from which 
injurious after-effects are not to be anticipated. It is 
the same with foods. Some people cannot eat straw- 
berries or oysters, or even smell them, without having 
a rash or vomiting. Experience teaches us further 
that the same remedy works very differently in chil- 
dren, adults and old people. 

It is well known that the use of certain drugs in 
childhood is entirely to be avoided, or given with the 
greatest precaution. 

Manifold modifications in the effects of drugs are 
conditioned by habit, way of living, sex, constitution, 
temperament and, above all, by the patient's condi- 
tion. The living body is not a passive, stable ma- 
chine which is constantly changed by outside influ- 
ences. 

The same substance can sometimes become a rem- 
edy and sometimes a poison. There is really between 



NATURE CUBE AND MEDICINE 31 

medicine and poison not a difference in principle, but 
in degree. We will pass over those cases where 
patients become morphine habitues through the use 
of morphine. The inefficiency and dangers of medi- 
cal therapy being recognized have led to the so-called 
"nihilismus" in therapy, to the expectative method. 
This method would only be justified if we had not a 
better therapy than the medical one, which we have 
in the physical, dietetic, healing factors. Why, then, 
wait in expectation, while we could help the patient 
with these healing factors? Why wait until a more 
serious or organic disease has developed when we 
could avoid these through proper treatment of 
slighter indispositions or functional disturbances? 
But Nature Cure goes a step farther. Why first lead 
an unnatural life, which weakens the body and makes 
it susceptible to diseases, by improper diet, dress, 
pleasure, work, etc., when one can harden the body 
and increase its power of resistance by a natural 
hygienic way of living? Nature Cure teaches a nat- 
ural prophylaxis and hygiene, and this is her final 
aim. 

In short: Nature Cure is the renaissance of the old 
humoral therapy, which preceded the era of medicine. 
The adherents of this method believed that impurities in 
the fluids of the body were the cause of all diseases. This 
therapy is proved by the greatest scientists of Germany in 
our day. Why, Nature herself proves it to us beyond a 
doubt. For, is not the greatest danger of the disease over, 
the patient better, and the physician more hopeful when 
the natural healing power in the patient's body throws out 



32 NATURE CURE 

poison in the form of perspiration, boils, rash, diarrhoea, 
dark urine, etc. The greater the quantity excreted the 
more rapid will be the patient's recovery. 

Nature Cure helps this effort of Nature by producing: 
perspiration, by massage, proper diet, exercise, etc., 
instead of putting more poisons (drugs) into the diseased 
body. 



HYDROPATHY. 

Till taught by pain. 
Men really know not what good water's worth; 
If you had been in Turkey or in Spain, 
Or with a famish'd boat's crew had your berth, 
Or in the desert heard the camel's bell. 
You'd wish yourself where Truth is — in a well. — Byron. 

SINCE the creation of the universe water has been 
the greatest healing factor. We find the proof 
of this in innumerable quotations from the 
oldest writings we possess, the Bible not excepted. 
Hippocrates, the "Father of Medicine," used it fre- 
quently, and so did Ambroise Pare, Macartney San- 
cussani, Caldani, Percy, Surrey, Trail, Priessnitz, 
Schroth, Rausse, Hahn, Kneipp, in fevers, inflamma- 
tions, rheumatism, gout, etc., and so did the most 
renowned physicians up to the present day. Askle- 
piades, Oribasius, Detius Rhazes, Claicema, Flayer, 
Haller, Drs. Hoffmann, Gregory, Cheyne, Harvey, 
Fallopius, Kern, M. Jose of Amiens, Giunninni, Jack- 
son, Forbes, Thaer, Currie, Wright and thousands 
of renowned physicians of our day and age. 

The main portion of our body is water, which is 
necessary for its existence, for without it bodily com- 
bustion would prove fatal. 

We use it in various forms, as baths, vapor, packs, 
pours, enemas, compresses, fomentations, snow, ice. 

In its different forms it is cooling, refreshing, 

« 33 



34 NATURE CURE 

soothing, quieting; it causes solution and removes 
impurities. A skin that has been inactive for years 
can be brought to action and excretion by producing 
perspiration through the millions of pores on the 
body by a hot bath and dry pack, and the variously 
tempered baths not only increase the vitality of the 
blood and nerves, but help the whole organism. 

Most acute diseases can be cured by the well- 
directed baths and packs in a very short time. A 
plain lukewarm bath (90° F.) or a cold sponge bath 
will bring down the fever, as a rule, from one to three 
degrees, in almost all acute diseases. 

In cases of frozen limbs and chilblains, the walking 
in or rubbing with snow is the most effective cure, 
followed by scientific massage. For ulcers, small- 
pox, continued compresses day and night, combined 
with a fruit diet, will effect a complete cure and pre- 
vent scars. For a sore throat, put a fourfold wet 
cloth, covered with a broader strip of wool Jersey or 
flannel, around the throat at night. Keep it on all 
night, and in the morning take it off and wash the 
throat with cold water. 

The headache and toothache often can be cured by 
a hot foot-bath. A warm bath at night produces 
sleep, especially when followed by massage. 

The various nerve packs are wonderful in their 
effects ; everybody ought to know how to apply them. 
So are the lung packs for pleurisy, pneumonia, and 
all lung troubles, etc. In typhoid fever the trunk 
packs and enemas prevent perforation and purify the 
system from its poisonous matter, causing a prompt 



HYDROPATHY 35 

recovery. Every mother ought to know this and 
teach it to her children. What a help for her to know 
such simple means of cure, especially if suddenly in 
the night one of the members of her family should 
become sick and no physician near. Hydropathy 
ought to be taught in our schools, for the most valua- 
ble possession to anyone is his own body, and how 
many are able to take care of it? As the welfare 
and greatness of any nation depend on the health of 
its subjects, the Government ought to encourage the 
teaching of common natural hygiene thoroughly in 
the schools. 



MASSAGE— ORTHOPEDY. 

"Come forth into the light of things, 
Let Nature be your teacher." — Wordsworth. 

MASSAGE consists of manipulations of the 
body, either by hand, massage rollers or 
machinery. In all organic and nervous 
troubles the soft human hand is preferred to the 
machine for massage. But in obesity, certain condi- 
tions of stiff muscles, etc., machine massage gives 
good results. 

The different movements are either strokes, clap- 
ping, hacking, kneading, vibrating, etc. 

Self-Massage. — In some ailments you can massage 
yourself very effectually; for instance, with consti- 
pation, catarrh of the stomach,* torpid liver, 
sprained ankle (circular), headache (sideways), 
falling out of hair (backwards motion), neuritis 
(rub arm upwards). 

No inflamed parts ought to be massaged. 

Nervousness, a tender skin, babies in paralysis, 
around wounds and boils, and painful parts in rheu- 
matism and gout, must be massaged with very 
gentle strokes, no clapping, hacking or vibrating to 
begin with. 

The strokes of massage treatment should always 

•See Figure 2. 

36 



MA88A0E—0RTH0PEDY 37 

go towards the heart, namely, arms and legs up- 
wards, back down, chest down. 

Organic massage is best left to a scientifically 
trained masseur or masseuse. In cases where these 
cannot be procured, exercise bringing ailing parts 
into action help a great deal. 

In all ailments where massage is forbidden, exer- 
cising ought to stop, too; for instance, in hemor- 
rhages, fever, appendicitis, etc., until all danger is 
over. 

Massage counts among the oldest forms of ther- 
apy, and even to-day we see savages practice it who 
scarcely commence to show the rudiments of cul- 
ture. 

Besides that, if we observe the animals, we see that 
they use it in rubbing bruises, contusions, etc. To 
show this I will relate here an experience in my life : 

Several years ago I was visiting a friend, Mrs. A., 
in Texas. One day, as we walked up and down the 
spacious back yard, a large red ant ran toward me. 
I crushed it with my foot to and fro, so that it looked 
a flat, skinny piece, lying in the shade of the rear 
house. When I started on again I noticed another 
red ant coming to the crushed one, and going all 
around it, touching it with its head. I wondered 
when I saw the newcomer pulling it along, and said 
to my friend, "Wait, let us see; she will probably 
bury it." But no, she only pulled it out of the shade 
into the sun, and then began mouth and foot manipu- 
lations. I said to Mrs. A., ' ' She probably embalms it 
with her saliva before burying it. ' ' After a few min- 



38 NATURE CURE 

utes another ant came, and she also began to push 
her forefeet and mouth alternately against the sides 
of the crushed body. So they both went on for about 
twenty minutes, when the crushed ant's body grew 
rounder and rounder, moved one leg after another, 
and finally walked slowly away. I was greatly aston- 
ished at the correct instinct of these little insects. 
First the crushed body was dragged into the sun to 
improve the impaired circulation and help the re- 
expansion by its heat. Then they raised the crushed 
body to normal roundness by incessantly massaging 
the whole body. What a lesson from one of our 
smaller insects ! 

Among the old cultured nations, Egyptians, Per- 
sians, Chinese, Romans and Greeks, massage and 
gymnastic exercises were highly cultivated. 

The works of Oribasius, which were reproduced 
with beautiful illustrations in Paris in 1851, are very 
instructive, and show us that our modern Swedish 
movements are a faithful imitation of Greek models. 

Asklepiades was one of the most renowned physi- 
cians who highly cultivated the antique massage and 
gymnastic exercises as healing factors. It was this 
same Asklepiades whom we may regard as the father 
of the physical dietetic therapy or Nature Cure, be- 
cause he advocated all his life, beside massage, 
water, light, exercise and diet as the main healing 
factors. 

In modern times it is the Central Institute for 
Gymnastics, in Stockholm, founded by the gymnast 
Ling, which is the source and nursery of modern 
mechanotherapy. 



MASSAGE— ORTHOPEDY 39 

Massage has also recently considerably developed, 
especially as "organic massage," in which the larger 
organs (lungs, liver, heart, uterus, etc.) as well as 
the smaller (eyes, ears, nose) are treated scientific- 
ally according to their anatomy, physiology and ail- 
ments. 

The German and Swedish schools produce scien- 
tifically trained masseuses and masseurs, whose 
knowledge is founded on a thorough study of the 
anatomy and physiology of the human body. 

Any physician who has drawn massage into his 
method of treatment soon finds that it deserves a 
prominent place in therapy, because very often 
pathological changes can be prevented and cured by 
it when they are but little or not at all influenced by 
other means. This is especially true in female trou- 
ble, where invariably an operation is advised, while 
we have in the Thure Brandt massage (internal), 
hydrotherapy and air-baths, the most effectual 
means for a thorough and agreeable cure. 

Although the procuring of a scientifically trained 
masseuse or masseur is often more trouble than the 
writing of a prescription, a conscientious physician 
will not shun any trouble when he has found that 
many a chronic disease can be cured by massage 
when all other means fail. 

How soothing it is to a nervous sufferer! How 
well he feels during and after its application ! How 
strengthening to the weak before and after an opera- 
tion ! It makes the lame walk, the cripple normal, 
the complexion healthy, the bearing graceful, the 



40 NATURE CURE 

lungs expand and gi'ow healthy and strong. All the 
organs work normally by its help, and, thus strength- 
ened, soon do satisfactory work independently. Com- 
bined with hydrotherapy, rheumatism and gout are 
cured thoroughly by it; so are swellings, varicose 
veins, dislocated and sprained joints, contusions, 
contractions, adhesions, curvature of spine, double 
joints, hemorrhoids, appendicitis, most female 
troubles, asthma, gall stones, kidney trouble, nervous 
diseases, etc. 

In childbirth, massage is of the greatest help. It 
quickens the delivery, and in abnormal cases it brings 
about a normal position of the child, less suffering, 
no exhaustion, quick restoration of strength, pre- 
vention of blood flow and fever, besides the comfort- 
able feeling it gives. All the most renowned gyne- 
cologists of Europe employ it, and there all midwives 
are trained to do it. Its use spreads rapidly, and we 
hail it with pleasure that most advanced physicians 
of all schools have incorporated it more and more 
into most of their courses of treatment. 

Orthopedy, a branch of Nature Cure treatment, 
has been illustrated in our States sufficiently by Dr. 
Lorenz, two years ago, and we have saved many 
patients an operation by it. Thure Brandt massage 
is of the same order. 



DIET. 

Thorough mastication of your food brings roses to your cheeks and 
gold to your purse. — Selected. 

Govern well thy appetite lest Sin surprise thee, and her black 
attendant Death. — Milton. 

IT is really astonishing that in the twentieth cen- 
tury most people eat what they "like best," 
without considering that their health de- 
pends greatly on what and how they eat. If man 
had retained the original animal instinct, he would 
have his best guide in that. But as we have killed it 
by generations of wrong living, creating sickly, arti- 
ficial appetites, we ought to endeavor to regain this 
natural instinct by a simpler, hygienic way of living. 

Our blood is the natural food for all and each cell 
of our body, and as only a healthy organ can do good 
(normal) work, it is of the greatest importance that 
the blood, its food, be in a healthy condition. Our 
blood is formed from what we eat ; therefore, our diet 
is not indifferent. 

Liebig's albumen theory is at an end. The greatest 
scientists of our age prove that the most important 
part in our diet is the vegetable salts. Therefore, we 
ought to eat the same, and give our children from the 
first year of their lives sufficient of them. They are 
mostly contained in fruits and vegetables (especially 
lettuce and spinach). To make your baby strong give 
it, from the fourth month of its life, fruit juices, be^ 

41 



42 NATURE CUBE 

sides milk, and from its eighth month, vegetables 
(spinach especially, steamed and put through a meat 
grinder), besides milk and fruits, but no meat. 

As there has been so very much written on this 
subject I will refrain from entering into details, and 
only say that our meals ought to consist mainly of 
fruits, vegetables, brown bread or whole wheat bread 
and nuts. Many people eat too much meat. Once a 
day is sufficient for anybody to eat it. 

In diseases great attention should be paid to the 
character of the disease, and the diet prescribed ac- 
cordingly, in order to effect a prompt cure. Meat 
creates heat, consequently it ought not to be given in 
feverish diseases. 

The theory that meat gives strength is one of the 
causes of the degeneration of our present generation, 
as the greatest physicians (Lahmann, Boehm, 
Schweninger and others) have proved. 

Most diseases of the digestive organs come from 
insufficient mastication of food. The haste and 
hurry of our times make people swallow their food 
very quickly, so that they may ' ' get back to business 
quickly." In this regard the common mechanic is 
much better off, as he has at least an hour for his 
dinner, thus allowing sufficient time for masticating 
properly. 

Eecent researches and experiments of Mr. Horaz 
Fletscher have aroused the interest of the greatest 
physiologists and scientists of the world. 

Mr. Fletscher, of Venice, is a wealthy man who 
studied dietetics from a mere philanthropic point of 



DIET 43 

view. He tries to prove that a dietetic reform is the 
foundation of all reform, and that there will not be 
any "slums" after a reform in diet, clothing, dwell- 
ing, etc., has taken place. He says most people eat 
too much and masticate their food too little. If they 
masticated it four or five times as long, all stomach 
trouble would disappear, and with a better change 
of matter, naturally, almost all diseases. 

Eenowned men as Michael Foster (England), Pro- 
fessor H. F. Bowditch and Professor Chittenden 
(Yale) have tested his method, and Professor Chit- 
tenden gave recently his view of it in a very interest- 
ing article in the ' ' Popular Science Monthly. ' ' 

On account of the economical importance of this 
question the Military Department of the United 
States has ordered twenty men to spend their whole 
time and effort during several months by severely 
testing Fletscher's theory. 

I myself have tried it with some of my patients 
with very gratifying results, and now impress it on 
all of them. 

In kidney trouble, rheumatism, gout, anaemia, can- 
cer, consumption, scrofula, skin diseases, etc., no 
meat ought to be eaten, but twenty or thirty nuts 
eaten daily as a substitute, until a complete cure is 
effected by the combined treatment of massage and 
hydrotherapy. 

Eggs and old cheese produce much uric acid, ex- 
cept when with cheese is eaten either an apple or a 
potato, and with eggs some lettuce or other green 
vegetables. 



44 . NATURE CUBE 

Overfeeding and want of exercise are two of the 
main causes of disease. We ought to leave the table 
when we long to eat at least half as much more as we 
have eaten. Nearly everybody eats too many spices, 
especially salt and pepper, which make the blood im- 
pure and cause disease. Fruit and nuts, our most 
natural food, is eaten too little. Eat fruit at every 
meal, and if possible make one of your meals every 
day entirely out of fruit. Most people would im- 
prove their health by proper exercise and the follow- 
ing diet : 

1. Breakfast. — Fruit, a cereal, wheat hearts, in- 
stantaneous tapioca or Force, etc., an egg, whole 
wheat bread, peanut butter, Lahmann's cocoa. 

2. Lunch. — Various fruits, or one kind of fruit 
and a glass of sour milk (clabber), brown bread, cot- 
tage cheese, lettuce, radishes. 

3. Dinner. — Fruit, steamed vegetables (especially 
often spinach and lettuce), rice, meat, dried fruits 
and nuts or a light pudding (fruits preferred). 

One of the most easily digested and most nourish- 
ing foods is rice. 

A great number of chronic diseases can be mainly 
cured by diet, especially diseases of the blood, of the 
digestive organs, and lung trouble. 

Most people dritik from habit, while they might 
learn from the animals to drink only when thirsty. 
A rabbit never drinks as long as it has fresh herbs to 
eat, for they contain enough water to supply the need 
of its body. 

In nervous diseases, stomach trouble and hem- 



DIET 45 

orrhages nothing ought to be taken hot, but luke- 
warm. 

Fast twice a month by eating only some fruits and 
nuts for a day. 




THE AIR-BATH. 

Better to hunt in fields for health unbought, 

Than fee the doctor for a nauseous draught. 

The wise for cure on exercise depend; 

God never made His work for man to mend. — Dryden. 

THE air is our natural element, and in order to 
remain and grow well we ought to breathe 
pure air day and night. Not only should our 
lungs, but also our skin, breathe it. The skin is an 
organ whose work is to push impurities out of our 
bodies in the form of perspiration and poisonous 
gases, and in return to drink in the pure oxygen of 
the air through more than five millions of pores. 

There are four ways by which Nature purifies our 
bodies from poisons — through the lungs, the kidneys, 
the skin and the bowels. But many people prevent 
the skin from acting by wearing too many and too 
closely woven garments; therefore, the lungs and 
kidneys must also do the work of the skin. They do 
it for a time without apparent harm, but the strong- 
est organ cannot be overworked indefinitely and re- 
main unharmed. A kidney or lung trouble is the con- 
sequence. In order to prevent this we should select 
loosely woven clothes, and every morning and even- 
ing we should give our skin a chance of free action by 
taking an air-bath in our room. 

Undress as much as possible and open all the win- 
dows. According to the temperature, keep more or 

46 



THE AIR-BATH 47 

less in motion or rest. In hot weatlier much motion 
is not necessary, while in cool and cold weather it is 
imperative. For this purpose we would advise an 
exerciser put up at the post of your door, and suggest 
that your physician prescribe the necessary exercises 
and their duration. These air-baths will prove bene- 
ficial both to the healthy and the sick. The motion 
prevents chilliness and helps better circulation of 
the blood. Every person needs these baths more or 
less, and millions of people would be well instead of 
sick if they would take them regularly, beginning 
with two minutes, increasing to at least half an hour, 
every morning and evening. They are the main ele- 
ment in the cure of anaemia, obesity, weak lungs, skin 
diseases, scrofulous and nervous diseases. In the 
Nature Cure Sanitariums of Germany they have reg- 
ularly built air-baths in the open air, which are 
favorite places of all the patients. Very feeble in- 
valids and nervous patients, who can scarcely bear 
the mildest form of water bathing, can stand two air- 
baths during a day, and are greatly benefited by them. 
These baths are the safest and most agreeable way 
of hardening ourselves; persons who take them 
regularly scarcely ever take cold. Consider all the 
savage nations, who on an average are healthier than 
any civilized nation. Can you imagine them doing 
without their air-baths? No, not even the inhab- 
itants of the colder zones. In Dr. H. Lahmann's 
booklet about "The Air-Bath" there is a very inter- 
esting illustrated account about the air-baths of the 
heathen Esquimaux on the east coast of Greenland. 



48 'NATURE CURE 

He says : "The observations made by Frithjoff Nan- 
sen on his expedition to Greenland amongst a people 
living in a state of nature may assist us. Nansen 
noticed that the heathen Esquimaux on the east coast 
of Greenland undressed in the evenings in their skin 
tents, and so unconsciously took regular air-baths, 
although the tents were but poorly warmed by cod- 
liver oil lamps. Nansen rightly observes that this 
instinctive air-bathing while in tents was a necessary 
compensation for the harm done by the impermeable 
fur clothing. 

"This opinion of Nansen 's has been shown to be 
correct by the condition of the Esquimaux on the west 
coast of Greenland, who for some time now have been 
under Danish rule and influenced by Christian mis- 
sionaries. The latter naturally teach their followers 
that this air-bathing in tents, occupied by several 
families in common, is indecent and wrong, while in 
other cases, owing to the adoption of many of the 
European vices, the people have become so poor that 
they can no longer build skin tents, but are compelled 
to live in caverns. The result of these changes is an 
increased mortality, principally owing to lung 
trouble, and Nansen believes that the whole of the 
Esquimaux population on the west coast will in a 
short time be destroyed. Let us take a lesson, there- 
fore, from the Esquimaux!" 



THE SUN-BATH. 

"The sun is all about the world we see, 
The breath and strength of every spring." — Swinburne. 

NOTHING in the universe can live and thrive 
without the sun. The health, growth and 
color of all plants and animals depend upon 
it, and thus it can be easily understood why the sun 
has been worshiped as a god. 

Among the various kinds of healing methods it is 
especially the fast-spreading Nature Cure, in which 
the sun, in the form of light and sun-baths, is so 
effectively used. Although the old Greeks and 
Romans took sun-baths in their "Solariums," it is 
only within the last twenty-five years that the latter 
have been incorporated in a systematic, scientific 
way into medical treatment, with more and more sur- 
prising results of its great healing virtues. In all 
Nature Cure Sanitariums of Europe, especially in 
Germany, special sun-baths are built. 

The effect of the rays of the sun on our bodies 
varies according to their application. If they reach 
our skin through glass, we receive only the beneficial 
heat and light; but if they reach us through open 
space directly, they cause also a powerful chemical 
change of matter in our body. As in all chronic dis- 
eases the change of matter in our body is insufficient, 
these baths are one of the most valuable means in 
curing chronic diseases. 

4 49 



so NATURE CURE 

The sun-bath proper is taken in the following way : 
In the open air, surrounded by a 10 to 12-foot high 
close fence or wall; on an elevated platform mat- 
tresses are laid in long rows. On these the patients 
expose their bodies to the sun, either bare or 
wrapped in a light blanket. The head is protected 
by a bench or umbrella, etc. The air must be calm 
and the thermometer up to at least 95° F. in the sun. 
As this is the most powerful of all treatments, on ac- 
count of the great chemical changes taking place in 
the patient's body, these baths must be given with 
good judgment as to the individual case. There must 
be a cold compress upon the forehead. People with 
a tender skin ought to be covered with cheese cloth 
or a light blanket. 

Imagine your body to be square, and let the sun 
shine on each of its sides for ten minutes. In very 
weak patients only five minutes for the first time. 
Then rise and wash the body off with cold water, and 
rest for at least half an hour ; weak persons rest two 
or three hours. 

Sun-baths are used especially for rheumatism, 
gout, neuralgia, lung trouble, diabetes, dropsical 
swellings, flybetus, rickets, anaemia, scrofulousness, 
lupus and various other skin diseases. Even in re- 
cent years physicians had no idea of the effect the 
sun had on the human body. As to its revolutionary 
power in stirring up dead poisonous matter, burning 
it up and excreting it by perspiration, a sun-bath is 
even more powerful than a Turkish or Russian bath. 
He who has never taken a sun-bath may feel a little 



THE SUN-BATH 51 

reluctant "to bathe iu the suu," but after once hav- 
ing felt its delightful sensations he certainly regrets 
that he cannot take it oftener. On an average, a 
whole sun-bath ought only to be taken every twelfth 
or fourteenth day. But when only a part of the body 
takes it as lungs, legs or arms, it may be taken 
more frequently ; but as its effect depends mostly on 
the constitution, a physician ought to be consulted 
for minute directions. Many people might think it 
strange to be advised to expose themselves to the 
rays of the sun in summer, when everybody longs for 
the shade. But the difference is in being undressed. 
Why do the animals often seek the sun for their rest- 
ing place in summer? How different are the faces 
of people who are almost always out of doors, under 
the influence of sun and light, from those pale, sickly 
looking beings who are like prisoners, nearly always 
locked up in their houses. A room into which no sun 
shines is not by far as healthy as one into which it 
comes. Put a plant into the cellar, and it loses its 
color and strength. Put it into sun and light again, 
and it regains both. Fruits cannot ripen without the 
sun, and man requires it equally with the plants. 

It is to be regretted that in many countries they 
can be taken only in summer. But let us be benefited 
by them whenever we can, for pestilence walks in 
darkness and dirt. Sunlight is death to disease 
germs. 



PHYSICAL CULTURE. 

Motion is Life, 
Inactivity is Death. 

AS all organic life depends on the normal change 
of matter, it is of the greatest importance to 
retain it in health and to regain it in sickness, 
and this is done by physical culture. To have the 
proper effect, observe the following rules : 

1 . Remove all tight and heavy clothing. 

2. Take only those exercises which suit you indi- 
vidually. Let your physician prescribe them for 
you. 

3. The exercises must be done quietly, without 
haste, but with force of the muscles. If you are 
weak, do it as well as you can. Every day you will 
be able to do them better. 

4. Never overdo, but stop when tired. It is well to 
begin with a few motions and increase them as best 
you can. 

5. If the exercises cause lasting pains in your 
muscles, it is a sign that you overdid, and you have to 
make a pause; then begin again with very gentle 
movements. 

6. The best time is always one-quarter or one-half 
hour before a meal and two hours before you retire. 

7. During the pauses, put your hands on the hips 
and breathe deep and long. 

52 




7 

'a 

J 

* 

^ 





PHYSICAL CULTURE 53 

8. If breath and pulse go very fast, stop a little 
while until calm. 

9. Number and length of time for exercises have to 
be prescribed by your physician. 

10. If you do not understand anything about 
physical culture and its effects, do not undertake it 
during a serious illness without instruction from an 
experienced person. To perform a complete cure, 
hydrotherapj^, massage and proper diet have in most 
cases to accompany it. 

11. Patients who are sick in bed can do them also 
in a lying or sitting position, or with the help of 
another person. 

12. Besides many other benefits, physical culture 
improves the sleep and the appetite, increases cheer- 
fulness and gives new joy in life. 

Pull the Branch.* — Stand with feet apart, raise 
arms straight above your head, breathe deep (im- 
agine you have to pull a branch down in front of 
you), and bring down hands to touch the floor, if pos- 
sible, holding your breath, and your knees stiff. 
Count five, erect yourself again, and let out j^our 
breath. 

Good for all imperfect abdominal functions, con- 
stipation especially, and it strengthens the nerves 
and muscles of the back. 

Sit on Heels.f — Stand with heels together, raise 
heels bend knees, stretch knees, let heels sink. 

*See Figure 3. 
tSee Figure 4. 



54 yATURE CURE 

This exercise is espeeiallj' helpful in stiffness, 
lameness, rheumatism, gout, etc., of legs, and pre- 
vents stiffness of old age. 

Waist Turn — Stand with heels together, legs stiff 
up to the hips. Turn upper body slowly around to 
the right as far as possible, count five, and go around 
slowly to the left; coiint five there, then return to 
right, etc., twenty times each side, if strong. Weak 
patients may begin with three or four times each 
way. 

This exercise is made more effective when per- 
formed on a piano stool, upjDer body held stiff, and 
lower part moving right and left. It is especially 
effectual in liver trouble, hip disease, vertigo (go 
very slowly) and constipation. 

Sitting Up.* — Lie flat on your back and raise 
yourself into a sitting position without the help of 
the arms. If it is impossible, put, at the beginning, a 
pillow or some other weight on feet, or put feet 
underneath a piece of furniture, and by degrees this 
will become unnecessary. 

This exercise is very helpful in all stomach and 
abdominal disturbances and functional weaknesses. 

Pick Up Pebbles. — Bend down with stiff knees to 
pick up something, walk three to five steps and put 
it down again ; walk a few steps and repeat till tired. 

This jexercise is especially good, and should be 
used very extensively with piles, constipation and all 
nervous abdominal affections. 

•See Figure 5. 



PHYHWAL CVLTVRE 55 

Water Treading.— Let two inches of cold water 
run into your bath tub ; step into it and tread down 
the water in a walking step, raising each time the sole 
of the foot above the surface of the water. Do this 
every morning and evening, first day one minute, 
increasing one minute every day ujj to five minutes. 
Then continue all the while with five minutes. Wlien 
you stop, dry the feet. If they feel warm, everything 
is all right. If not, exercise or rub them till warm. 
In a short time they will be warm directly after the 
water treading. You must not let them stay cold. 
If necessary, take a hot foot-bath to make them 
warm. Very nervous people begin with tepid or cool 
water, and go gradually to the cold. 

Water treading is a very effectual means against 
cold feet, heart trouble, chilblains and frozen feet. 

Head Turning.* — Close your eyes and turn your 
head around to the right very sloivly in as complete 
a circle as possible. Then for a time around to the 
left. If it causes dizziness you did it too quickly. 

Very useful for stiff neck, congestion of blood in 
the head and headache from this cause, nervous dizzi- 
ness, fat neck, throat trouble and "old woman's 
lump." 

Leaning Leg Exercise.f — Stand three or four feet 
away from the foot of your bed; lean hands on it. 
Then let some one take hold of j^our ankle and raise 
your leg into a horizontal line, without your resist- 
ance. Then draw down your leg with stiff knee and 

*See Figure 6. fSee Figure 7. 



56 



NATURE CURE 



the other person withliolding in a measure, according 
to strength of patient. In the beginning the assistant 
ought to withhold but little. 

This exercise strengthens most muscles of the 
body and has a strong "drawing off" effect on the 
abdominal organs. 

A. Knee Separation. 

B. Knee Joining. 




(Figure 7.) Leaning Leg Exercise. 

A. Resisting Knee Movement. — As picture shows, 
the patient lies on her back with raised knees. The 
physician or assistant at her side separates her 
knees, while she resists and raises her pelvis until 
the hips are pretty straight and the weight of her 
body rests only on feet and upper back. Then she 
puts her knees slowly together again, while the as- 
sistant resists. 



PHYSICAL CULTURE 



57 



This exercise is repeated three or four times. 

B. The position is the same as in A, with the only 
difference that the assistant holds her hands outside 
of the knees, pressing gently while the patient sep- 
arates them, raising herself as in A. Then the 
assistant gently pushes them together again, while 
patient resists. 




(Figure 8.) Resisting Knee Movement. 



This is done three or four times. 

These exercises shorten all the muscles of the 
small pelvis, so that bowels, bladder, etc., can do 
better work. They are used directly after having 
replaced the prolapsed uterus (womb), vagina and 
rectum; also by a retroversion of the womb. Both 
applied at the same time draw off the blood from the 
abdomen. 



38 



NATURE CURE 



Knee Bent Hand Pressing. — (R e s i s t i n g Move- 
ment.) One foot rests witli its upper side on a chair, 
back of patient, on which also the assistant stands. 
The patient's knees are the same distance from tlie 
chair; she stretches her arms straight upwards and 




(Figure 9.) Knee Bent Hand Pressing. 

backwards, bending spine. The assistant puts his 
thenars (lower fleshy part of the thumb) upon cor- 
responding thenars of the patient, and his four 
fingers around the side of her hand. She holds his 
hand likewise. 
Now the patient raises herself on her toes, then 



CBEKRFVLNESS 59 

slowly bends the knee, while the assistant presses (or 
helps) her gently down, and the rest of her body re- 
mains in the same position. Then she raises herself 
again (he resisting a little), and then lets heels down 
to starting position. 

This is done alternately three or four times with 
each leg. 

In order to have the wished-for effect, it is of the 
greatest importance that during the whole exercise 
the pelvis is put forward, that the assistant does not 
press too hard, and that the patient does not bend her 
arms. 

This exercise draws the blood powerfully to the 
jjelvis and to the legs, and is used with much success 
in amenorrhoea (absence of menstruation). It must 
be used onlj' when advised by a physician, because 
there are cases when the menstruation would weaken 
the patient (anaemia, etc.). 

CHEERFULNESS. 

It is a known fact that the mind controls the body 
to a great extent. This is especially so with nervous 
people, and in our time most people are more or less 
nervous. 

We all know that worry and fear are the greatest 
poisons for the body; so is cheerfulness one of its 
best medicines. To this many people will answer, 
' * That is easier said than done, and how can you be 
cheerful when you are sick or unfortunate 1 ' ' But I 
tell you, you can if you want to; for "where there is 



60 NATURE CURE 

a will there is a way." This is my proverb, and I 
have practiced it since my youth, when my dear 
mother taught it to me. It helped me to total recov- 
ery when I was a nervous wreck myself. I have had 
many nervous patients who were helped materially 
to their restoration by it. So, for instance, even in 
the dreadful hysterical epilepsy, most of my patients 
had an attack by indulging in sad and worrying 
thoughts. After I told them to recall several 
especially joyful or funny events in their lives, and 
when sad thoughts would assail them to discard them 
at once for the former, they have, in most cases, been 
able to avert an attack. We all should practice this 
until it becomes a habit, and we are cheerful all the 
time. 

Hand in hand with it, naturally, a hygienic way of 
living should go, for an improving physique influ- 
ences our mind favorably too. 

Last year I treated a young lady for kidney 
trouble. She was always in an unpleasant mood, 
discontented, grunting, complaining, frowning and 
pouting. After I had treated her for some time her 
relatives and friends complimented her and me on 
the total change in her disposition. She was like 
another being, always cheerful, polite, bright, con- 
tented and full of fun. Eecently her aunt said to me : 
"Doctor, I must compliment you for having so 
totally changed my niece. It is a very remarkable 
cure. Last year I was glad to see the change, but 
feared it would not be lasting; but as it has lasted 
for a year, I hope it will continue. It makes us all 
very much happier to see her so cheerful," 



GENERAL HYGIENIC RULES 61 

So let US all do, improve our health and grow and 
remain cheerful. Thus we shall be much more lova- 
ble sisters, brothers, wives, husbands, mothers and 
fathers, enjoy ourselves much more, make others 
happier, and create a comfortable, peaceful, enjoy- 
able tone in all our homes and wherever we go. 

GENERAL HYGIENIC RULES. 

1. Practice deep breathing all the time. 

2. Take an air-bath every morning and evening. 

3. Sleep with open windows throughout the year. 

4. Take two leisure walks every day, but if you 
follow a sedentary life take as much exercise out of 
doors as possible in the mornings and evenings, and 
also some exercises in physical culture. 

5. Neither smoke nor chew tobacco. 

6. Drink no coffee, tea, nor alcoholic drinks. 

7. Masticate your food well; twenty times each 
soft bite, and thirty, each hard bite of food. 

8. Do not eat much meat, but live chiefly on fruits, 
vegetables and nuts. 

9. Do not ride a bicycle ; it weakens the heart. 

10. Do not wear heavy underwear, nor sleep under 
heavy bed clothes. 

11. If possible sleep alone, as it is unwholesome 
to sleep with another person. 

12. Do not worry! It is the worst poison in the 
world. 

13. Look always on the bright side of life, and cul- 
tivate cheerfulness in thought, society and books. 

If you follow these rules you will grow healthier, 
stronger and happier every day. 



62 NATURE CURE 

DIRECTIONS FOR SUCCESSFUL NURSING. 

1. Make patient comfortable ; undress him and put 
him on a clean bed with a hard mattress. 

2. Keep the windows of the sick room open day 
and night, except during the time the patient is 
exposed in bathing, etc. In cold weather the room 
ought to be heated 65° to 70° F. 

3. Let the surroundings of the patient be as quiet 
as possible. 

4. Never waken the patient for treatment, even if 
the fever be high. 

5. Be gentle, cheerful and thoughtful of all the 
needs of the patient. 

6. Have the patient's bowels moved at least once 
every day, by a small lukewarm enema, in a lying 
position, held from five to fifteen minutes, followed 
after the moving of the bowels by a small remaining 
enema.* In typhoid fever, appendicitis, strictures, 
peritonitis, inflammation of the female organs, etc., 
f I'om three to six enemas should be given daily, with 
remaining enemas following every evacuation. 

7. Do not put much covering on a feverish patient, 
except when he has chills, as he is already too hot 
from fever. A feverish patient cannot take cold. 

8. Never give a patient alcoholic drinks, except by 
special prescription of the physician. 

9. If anybody is wounded or poisoned, and no 
doctor at hand, look up chapter on "Wounds and 
Poisoning," to give the first aid. 

'Sec Figure 10, and refer to "Rem.tining Enema." 



DIRECTIONS FOR SUCCESSFUL NURSINO 63 

10. If you or any of your dear ones should feel 
sick, and you do not want to send for the doctor at 
once, apply a trunk pack and calf pack for the night, 
or for at least three hours during the day, preceded 
by an enema, and followed by a cold sponge bath, 
or a warm tub bath, 90° F. Thus you can in most 
cases prevent sickness, and in no case can it ever do 
harm. Repeat if needed. 

11. If a patient's head be hot and his feet cold, 
put a hot water bag or a heated brick to his feet 
and cold compresses to his forehead — the latter 
renewed every three minutes. Do not use an ice bag, 
as it causes a paralytic state of the blood-vessels, 
and thus does moi'e harm than good. 

12. The most strengthening, the most easily di- 
gested food, and that which contains the most nour- 
ishment in the smallest form and gives least work to 
the digestive organs is almond milk. (See chapter 
on "Hygienic Cooking.") It is used in all hospitals 
and sick rooms in Europe when the j)atient cannot 
take anything else, needs nourishment but must 
spare the digestive organs, and where he has to be 
fed through the rectum in the form of an enema. 

13. In long cases of sickness, where the patient 
must not be moved much, to prevent bed sores keep 
a basin of cold water underneath the bed where he is 
lying, renewing it every morning and evening. If 
possible, wash his back frequently with cool water. 

14. To avoid much moving of a very sick patient, 
have his nightgown open the whole length of the 
back, so that it can be put on like an apron, pushing 
it under his sides without moving him. 



64 NATURE CURE 

15. Wear yourself light cotton clothes. They are 
more cheerful for the patient, and do not gather the 
germs of disease like woolen clothes. 

16. When with a patient, do not sit on his bed — 
that might oppress him — but on a chair, where he 
can see you without turning his head. 

17. Do not talk too much, nor busy yourself con- 
tinually about the room — both make the patient 
nervous. 

18. For all water tkeatmbnt, as baths, packs, etc., 
note the following rules : 

(a) The colder the water the shorter its applica- 
tions should be. 

(b) The patient's body should be warm when any 
cool or cold water treatment is given. 

(c) The room in which the treatment is given 
should be warm. 

(d) All packs and hot baths should be followed 
by a cold or cool sponge bath, or a warm (90° F.) tub 
bath. 

(e) Never take a bath directly after a meal — wait 
at least an hour. 

(f ) Do not give any water treatment directly after 
great excitement, fright, anger, etc. 

(g) If a child shuns a cold water treatment, make 
it easy for him by beginning with a warmer tempera- 
ture than the prescribed one, and gradually make it 
cooler. If it is only from naugJdiness that he resists, 
then insist upon his taking it. 



PARENTAGE. 

The most important, the most honorable task which can be set any 
woman ia to be a good and wise mother. — President Roosevelt. 

Children are idols of hearts and of households, 
They are angels of God in disguise. — Milton. 

TO be a mother is the greatest, the noblest state 
of woman. It is much to be regretted that 
comparatively few know and treasure its im- 
portance, and that so many avoid motherhood. 
Most of our greatest men— writers, artists, states- 
men — as Milton, Goethe, Washington, Napoleon, 
Richard Wagner and many others, attribute their 
success to the beneficial influence of the noble 
character of their mothers and wives. There can 
be no greatness, no financial or scientific success 
in a nation without healthy, noble mothers to give 
it healthy children; for only in a healthy body 
lives a healthy soul, and only a healthy mind can 
achieve greatness in any walk of life. Therefore 
every mother ought to do all in her power to 
produce healthy, noble offspring. The physical 
health is given the child by the mother's hygienic 
way of living during pregnancy, and by the child's 
being reared in a hygienic way. This I shall explain 
further on. 

The mental strength and qualities of the heart are 
imparted to it by the mother's practicing them dur- 

s 65 



68 NATURE CURE 

ing pregnaucy, the father before that time, as well. 
If you want your child to be musical, hear and prac- 
tice good music as much as possible during preg- 
nancy, putting your whole soul into it. The same 
with mathematics, economy, diligence, oratory, etc. 
To have a good-natured, lovely child, practice char- 
ity, love, forbearance, patience; think kindly of 
everybody; never let your temper overcome you. 
Abstain from all bad habits, alcoholic drinks, smok- 
ing, etc., and think with love of the coming baby. 
If you do this, you will without doubt have a child 
of fine character and great talents. To give it a 
healthy body be guided by what I shall say concern- 
ing pregnancy. 

Prenatal influence is one of the greatest powers 
in the reijroduction of our race, and therefore of 
vital imi^ortance. As to a great degree you can 
model your children by it, do it in the way to produce 
a healthy physique and a noble character in them. 

The greatest misery I have seen during those long 
5'ears of my practice came from immorality, which 
is the greatest curse of civilised nations, for most 
savage nations are not immoral. Here I remember 
an event from my own life. 

AVlien I was a young girl there came to our zoologi- 
cal garden for a number of j^ears a Mr. Bergmann, 
with about 20 or 30 savages, every summer another 
type. They were there for show on a large lawn 
inclosed by a low fence, living as they did at home, 
hundreds of people looking on. 

One day I went there with a friend, but at the 



PBEGNANOT 67 

first sight of those almost nude savages I felt 
shocked and as if I had to run away. But then I 
thought that that would make me too conspicuous 
and I might be laughed at. My friend seemed to feel 
the same and said: "Oh, how shocking to have all 
those almost naked people before children and every- 
body." 

We stayed and watched one of their meals, their 
work, etc. 

When we left I said to my friend : "I have learned 
something to-day. I think those savages are better 
than civilized people, for I am convinced they are 
not immoral." I watched them all the time, and none 
of the men, not even the youngest, cast as much as a 
licentious look towards those almost nude girls. And 
I, being always modest in dress and behavior, had 
often to experience vile looks from our "civilized" 
young men, even clerks in stores, etc. I wonder if 
that is a "blessing" of civilization? During my 
study and long years of practice I have become con- 
vinced that our children are born with a tendency to 
immorality. Proof: little babies practicing self- 
abuse. And this is caused by frequent intercourse 
during pregnancy. Most savages regard this as a 
crime, and spare their wives during that time. If 
they did not refrain they would produce children 
with abnormal sexual tendencies, just as civilized 
parents do. 

PREGNANCY. 

First of all, discard your corsets, and wear instead 
a well-fitting muslin waist — not too tight, and with- 



68 NATURE CURE 

out steel in the front. Have buttons on the waist, 
to which you can attach your skirts. Attach the stock- 
ing supporters on the sides, above the hips — not in 
front, for there should be no pressure on the abdo- 
men. 

As soon as you know you are pregnant, stop fre- 
quent marital relations, as intercourse in this state 
produces in the child a tendency to nervousness, as 
well as licentiousness. "Why, the wild animals do not 
indulge during that time, and is man to be less 
humane than an animal? 

The laudable endeavor of various societies to 
decrease the great evils that are threatening the 
total ruination of future generations by the re- 
sults of immorality and other vices, will never 
effect any radical change so long as they attack 
the blossoms and branches of the tree and leave 

THE ROOT UNTOUCHED. ThE ROOT MUST BE KILLED BY 

teaching the young how to produce and educate a 
new generation, free from licentious and other 
immoral tendencies. 

Why do savage nations not need houses of ill- 
fame NOR insane asylums'? Because this licentious 

TREE, with its POISONOUS VICES, DOES NOT GROW AMONG 
THEM, AND THEY DO NOT HAVE A DRUG STORE AT EVERY 
CORNER. For ailments they take a tea OP HERBS, 
JUST AS WHOLESOME AS OUR VEGETABLE SOUPS, BUT NO 
MINERAL, METAL MEDICINES WHICH CONTAIN STRONG 
POISONS, AND THEREFORE THEY ARE HEALTHIER 

THAN WE. 

* * » # # 



PREGNANCY 69 

Be as modest in married life as you were before 
its consummation ; it will insure you the lasting love 
of your consort. 

Let all your time for pleasure be spent in out-of- 
door sport; leisure walks, picnics, sleighing, coast- 
ing, skating, etc. 

Practice deep breathing all the time, especially 
after each meal. 

Live out-of-doors as much as you can. 

Sleep with open windows throughout the year. 

Do not ride a bicycle. Do not reach high, nor lift 
heavy things without holding your breath. 

Do not regard yourself as a sick person, and do 
not lie around if well ; but exercise as much as pos- 
sible, especially in the open air. 

Eat very little or no meat ; if none, as a substitute 
eat 20 nuts every day, masticating them well ; or eat 
some peas or beans. 

Eat sparingly of things containing much lime, as 
salted fish, salted meat, milk, etc. The lime makes 
the bones of the baby hard and childbirth painful. 
To produce a s^nall head in the child, and conse- 
quently an easy birth, live mainly on fruits, nuts, 
vegetables and cottage cheese. Drink as little fluid 
as possible, for too much water in the womb will 
cause it to expand unduly and consequently lose its 
contracting power — so important in childbirth — and 
make you so large that you shun going out. 

Do not eat sweets or many fried dishes. 

Brown bread is better than white bread. 

Do not season your food highly. 



70 NATURE CURE 

Mingle in cheerful, intelligent society, and indulge 
in good literature. 

Take frequent air-baths. 

If your circulation be poor, practice water tread- 
ing. (Page 55.) 

If constipated, eat whole wheat bread and practice 
exercises as directed under "Physical Culture."* 

Take during the first half of your pregnancy a 
sitz bath, 90° F. — fifteen minutes, four times a week; 
in the latter half, take one every day. Once a week, 
during the whole time, take a warm 95° F. tub bath, 
for ten minutes — then reduce the temperature until 
you can stand it without discomfort. Never take 
any bath shortly after a meal. 

If your breasts are not normally developed they 
should be treated by massage to increase their 
glands. If the nipples are not nprmal, they ought to 
be made so, even before preg-nancy, by massage, 
breast glasses, etc., so that you will be able to nurse 
your child. It is very much to be regretted that so 
few mothers are nursing their own offspring, as 
there is nothing that can replace the mother's milk. 
This is why so many babies die in the first year of 
their lives. From generation to generation it will 
grow worse, because a young mother who has not 
been nursed by her own mother has degenerated 
breasts, and so will be less able to nurse her child 
than her mother was. If the father of a young wife 
was given to drink she will in most cases not be able 
to nurse her child. Healthy normal breasts are one 
of the greatest charms of female beauty, but if the 

*See Figures 4, 6, 15. 



CHILDBIRTH 71 

present conditions continue there will be nothing but 
artificial busts in a not far distant future. 

If you follow these directions, you will have an 
almost painless childbirth, and be rewarded with a 
strong, healthy child. 

CHILDBIRTH. 

Childbirth ought to be painless, for it is not a dis- 
ease; and it can be made almost so by a hygienic 
and an appropriate living during pregnancy. Sta- 
tistics show that 98 per cent, of all birtlis are normal, 
and a normal birth should, as with animals, be i^ain- 
less, or cause no more discomfort than an evacuation 
of the bowels. Why then is it not painless among 
the people of civilized nations? 

1. Because our women are weakened by a wrong 
way of living, bj' a want of outdoor exercise, by 
their style of dress (corset), etc. 

2. Because the child's head is too large for the 
passage. This fact has been proven by Dr. Lahmann. 
What makes it too large? The mother's incorrect 
way of living creates in the child before birth a fatty 
degeneration, obesity and too large a head. You 
should not be proud of a fat, heavy child. Compare 
the newborn calf of the prairie with the average new- 
born child. The first is nothing but skin and bone, 
the baby is a lump of fat. The calf and the thin baby 
increase in weight from the beginning; the fat baby 
decreases from the beginning during several weeks. 
Another proof of No. 1 is seen in savage nations. 



72 NATURE CURE 

For instance, a savage tribe is on a wandering trip. 
A pregnant woman feels her time has come. With 
some of the other women she goes behind a bush, 
where she soon, painlessly, gives birth to the child. 
She then washes it in the nearest brook or spring, 
ties it on her back and continues her trip. Why is 
childbirth so easy with her 1 Because she never wore 
a corset, and every day had plenty of outdoor 
exercise. 

Nature Cure wants all women to come back to this 
original strength, for then mothers will look forward 
to childbirth with pleasure, instead of with fear and 
trembling. Therefore away with the corset ! Arouse 
yourselves to daily out-of-door exercise, combined 
with deep breathing, ball playing, rowing, skating, 
coasting, sweeping or shoveling snow and mowing. 
If you have no time for these, walk to the market, 
to your place of business, etc., instead of riding, and 
practice deep breathing all the way. Why is con- 
sumption not raging in Japan as in other countries'? 
Because every Japanese child is taught deep breath- 
ing systematically, and practices it all his life, is 
always in the fresh air and eats very little meat, 
but an abundance of rice, fruit and vegetables. 

For the birth of the child, choose the sunniest and 
most airy room in the house. Let there be two beds 
in this room, so that the mother can rest alternately 
upon a fresh bed. 

Everything must be very clean, and the windows 
open day and night, not only because fresh air will 
help to keep the mother well, but it will also give the 



CHILDBIRTH 73 

baby a good supply of oxygen in its lungs with its 
first breath, as a health-giving foundation for 
healthy lungs. Before birth the baby breathes 
through its liver. The omission of these precautions 
is one of the causes of so rapid an increase of con- 
sumption in our day. 

When you think your time has come, and you feel 
warm, take a cleansing bath of 90° F. and an enema, 
for the bladder and the rectum ought to be kept 
empty during childbirth. 

No internal examination should take place except 
in very urgent cases of an unexpected obstacle to 
childbirth, because it is often the cause of puerperal 
fever, and even death of the mother. 

After the birth, both mother and child need a very 
thorough cleansing. The baby must be washed first 
in two separate basins, in warm water, one for its 
eyes and one for its body. The greatest care must 
be taken not to let any particle of the impurities 
which cling to the child 's body enter its eyes, as they 
cause inflammation of the eyes and often total blind- 
ness. After it is washed quite clean, pour a pitcher 
of cool or cold water over its body ; wipe it and put 
a navel band and clothes on it. Its daily bath after 
this should be at 90° F., followed by a cooler pour 
on the upper part of its back. This greatly 
strengthens the nervous system. 

The mother is lifted into a sitz bath of 90° F., 
and after ten minutes lifted out again, put on a fresh 
bed, and a strip of absorbent cotton, 3x8 inches long, 
dipped in clean water, put between her legs and the 



74 NATURE CURE 

lips of the pubes, from the anus to the i^ubic boue, 
and covered well with dry, clean flannel. Renew this 
compress every four or six hours; it is a means of 
preventing puerperal fever. It causes the fresh 
arterial blood to flow profusely towards these parts, 
to cleanse and heal the sores of childbirth. Besides 
this it absorbs the cleansings and other impurities, 
thus preventing their entering the blood. A sitz 
bath after childbirth is worth gold for its refresh- 
ing, cleansing, strengthening and soothing qualities. 
After this the mother generally falls into a sound, 
refreshing sleep. She should have such a sitz bath 
every day for two weeks after childbirth; after that, 
every second day for six weeks. 

If the mother be healtliy, she can be up the second 
day for a short time to exercise a little about her 
bedroom. Then from day to day a little more, avoid- 
ing overexertion. 

As to her diet, she ought not to eat any animal 
food during the first weeks after childbirth, but mny" 
eat, if well, during the first days, milk toast, soups 
of cereals, spinach soup, fruit juices, almond milk, 
etc., and later on add green vegetables, bread sticks 
and nuts. 

Every mother ought to nurse her baby. It is bene- 
ficial to the mother in many ways, and it is due to 
the child. There is no complete substitute for it as 
a nourishment for the child. It is, to a certain 
degree, a guarantee of health and strength. 

With our weakened nervous generation it very 
often happens that in childbirth labor is insufficient 



CHILDBIRTH 75 

to give birth to the child. It may enter the small 
pelvis, but there it stops. The mother's hands, feet 
and nose are cold, her pulse grows weak. She fails 
more and more, and the application of instruments 
seems necessary. As it is the want of warmth in 
the body which is the cause of impeded labor, our 
effort must be to give it warmth. For this purpose 
we lift the mother into a sitz bath of 100^ to 105° F. 
We put her feet in a foot-tub full of water, 108° to 
110° F. On the abdomen protruding out of the 
water we put large hot compresses. Over the upper 
part of the body we spread a blanket, and over her 
knees hot dry flannels. Besides these, we let the 
mother drink hot sugar water, very sweet. Soon, 
more color comes in her face, and a stronger beat- 
ing of her pulse shows returning warmth. Labor 
sets in again, and in most cases with desired effect. 
Length of sitz bath depends on the amount of 
labor, and the progress of the birth. Half an hour in 
most cases is sufficient. During this time the high 
temperature of the water must be kept up. Heat, thus 
applied, not only makes childbirth quick, and saves 
total exhaustion and an instrumental birth to the 
mother, but it also softens all those lower active 
parts, vagina, perineum, so much that their rupture 
is prevented. The position the mother keeps in the 
sitz bath is better than any other, and the child 
naturally comes to its destined opening by its weight 
and the law of gravity. All physicians should try 
the hot sitz bath, and they will not regret it. In 
houses where there is not a sitz bath, a deep wash- 
tub, put close to the wall, may be used. 



76 NATURE CURE 

Birthmark. — If your child has a birthmark of a 
purplish red color, as you sometimes see in people's 
faces, lick it fi'equently from the very first day of 
birth, and by the ninth daj' it will have permanently 
disappeared. 



HEALTHY CHILDREN. 

The childhood shows the man, 

As morning shows the day. — Milton. 

WE are all the product of our surroundings. 
Therefore let everything that influences our 
bodies and minds be pure and healthful. Be 
a healthy mother by leading a hygienic life, and 
nurse your baby. If you cannot nurse your baby, 
feed it with cow's milk, to which you add either the 
juice of fresh fruits or berries, or a little water and 
milk sugar. With a soft rag, wrapped around your 
first finger, wash out its mouth after every meal. 

When the child is four months old, give it twice 
every day some fruit juice, besides nursing it. At 
eight months, decrease the times of nursing still 
more, and give it, in addition to milk and fruit, some 
green steamed vegetables, especially spinach, car- 
rots, oyster plant, asparagus tips, etc., all steamed 
without spices, and put through a meat grinder and 
feed with a spoon. By degrees, increase this fruit 
and vegetable diet; in the ninth month, add some 
cereals once a day, and wean the child during the 
tenth month. 

Keep the child clean by bathing it all over daily, 
and washing its private parts after every action of 
the bowels. 

Almost all savage nations regard it as a crime to 

77 



78 NATURE CURE 

have marital connection while the mother is nursing 
the child. They can control themselves better than 
the men of civilized nations do, I am sorry to say; 
and these savages are humane towards their wives 
and children. Even the wild animals refrain then, 
and why should man be worse than the animals of 
tlie forest and the prairie? Poor wife, who either 
has to have a baby every year, or become a nervous 
wreck by using harmful preventives ! 

Let the child's food for six or eight years consist 
chiefly of fruits, steamed vegetables and nuts, with 
a few cereals. No meats, no sweets ! 

Until it is three years old give it a daily tepid 
bath, 90° F., followed by a cold or cool pour. After 
that, give it a ]>ath every second day. The private 
parts should still be washed after every movement of 
the bowels and bladder. 

Dxiring the child's first months of life, notice how 
often it wets its diaper, then train it in this way: 
Take it up before the time comes and hold it over a 
chamber, making sh, sh, sh, sh sounds until it 
urinates. If you do that regularly the child will 
soon imitate you by trying to make the same sound 
when it feels it must urinate. Thus not only much 
diaper washing is saved, but the child will have 
strong, healthy abdominal organs. 

Never induce the baby to walk. Let it crawl as 
much as possible, and when it feels able to walk it 
will raise itself at a chair, bench, baluster, etc., and 
walk without your assistance. If you make it walk 
before the little legs have strength to carry the body 



HEALTHY CHILDREN 76 

the child will be either bow-legged or knock-kneed. 
Although they can be cured, I think prevention is 
better than a cure. 

So many mothers rock, swing, or jolt the baby 
when it cries, and infer from its ceasing to cry that 
this motion did it good, but it only stopped because 
the mother stunned its brain with her violent shak- 
ing. Do you think that does it good? Do not 
accustom the baby to be carried, but put it in a baby 
buggy out-of-doors all day long, pinning its cover 
to the sides of the buggy and to its jacket with safety 
pins. Do not excite it in any way, and do not let 
strangers shake and kiss it. 

Dress the baby in this way: A little chemise of 
cotton or linen — no flannels — a thin cotton under- 
skirt with bodice, and over this a slip of wash goods, 
wide at the neck. In hot countries, and here in 
summer, a slip is sufficient. Put yourself in its place, 
and think what suffering much clothing causes you 
in summer. In cold weather, when you take it out — 
and it should be taken out every daj', in any kind of 
weather — put a loosely woven jacket or sacque 
around it. At home you always create a summer heat ; 
therefore beware of overdressing the baby. Do not 
let it wear either shoes or stockings in the house, 
and when out of doors only sandals. If you regard 
the remarks of others about not wearing stockings, 
let them be as thin as possible, and of a very loose 
weave, so that the skin can act properly. The child 
will always have warmer and healthier feet than 
those children whose feet are incased in shoes, 



m NATURE CUBE 

stockings and leggings, and consequently are pale, 
damp, cold and bad-smelling. Your child will not 
have these discomforts nor a poor circulation. The 
experiment is worth your trial. 

Exercise the baby's muscles and lungs in playful 
gymnastics. Later on by out-of-door exercises, espe- 
cially ball games, sleighing, coasting, skating, run- 
ning, swimming, rowing, etc. 

When the child enters school, ask the teacher to 
give it a seat near an open window. Wherever there 
is a crowd there is a bad, poisonous air, and I am 
very sorry to say that most of our schools are insuf- 
ficiently ventilated. In most of the schools in Ger- 
many the recitations continue for fifty minutes. 
After each lesson all of the pupils are required to go 
into the yard, and run for ten minutes. One pupil 
in each class has to open all the windows of the 
class room, regularly, before leaving it, and to close 
them when the pupils return. This is an excellent 
sanitary arrangemnt and prevents much sickness, 
especially consumption. 

Let your child sleep with open, screened windows 
all the year round. In summer the screens keep out 
the flies, and in winter the snow and the rain. 

Do not take your child to the theatre, or to balls, 
etc. Watch its literature so that it does not read 
anything which will cause nervous excitement, as 
the "Arabian Nights," and books of a similar char- 
acter, which give the child wrong ideas of things, and 
by portraying impossible happenings keep its brain 
in a whirl of excitement. The reading of such books 



SICKNESS 81 

often causes dreadful niglitmare, and even attacks of 
epilepsy. Give it wholesome modern literature. 
Love stories are also injurious. They create a sexual 
lust, which too often leads to self-abuse and all its 
ruinous subsequent effects. 

Let no child of yours ever smoke, or drink any 
alcoholic beverage. 

Teach it early to do things for itself, even if you 
keep a house full of servants. Such a course helps 
to form a strong, independent character. Teach it to 
be strictly obedient; a contrary course makes chil- 
dren physical and moral weaklings. 

Further, teach your children natural hygiene in a 
comprehensible way. Do not think they are too 
young for it. They should also be properly taught 
in the schools. It is frequently presented in such a 
way that no good results from it. It is simply a book 
knowledge of anatomy and physiology that is 
poured into the child, instead of a practical hygiene, 
that even a child of three years could be made to 
understand by object lessons, which it will remember 
and practice all its life, after the habit has been 
formed. 

As the best teaching is done by example — stirring 
up the monkey habit in us — be a model to your chil- 
dren in everything you desire them to acquire. 

SICKNESS. 

Sickness is a disturbance of the normal functions 
of our bodies, caused in most cases by impurities 
(poisons) either from without our own body (in- 



82 NATURE CURE 

fection, etc.) or created in it. Tiierefore the maiu 
thing for a cure is to drive out the poison. This is 
done best in acute, feverish diseases by trunk and 
by calf packs, and in chronic diseases by making the 
l^atient sweat either through a vapor bath, dry pack, 
or a bed steam bath. 

Very nervous patients and those with an organic 
heart or lung trouble should not take the cabinet 
vapor bath, but the bed steam bath, to be followed 
by either a cool sponge bath or a tub bath, 90° F. 

So in case any of your dear ones feels sick, and 
you do not know what is the matter, feel his body 
and see whether he is feverish. Ask him whether 
he has any pain, whether his bowels have been moved 
that day, and whether he has any appetite. If there 
be pain anywhere put an extra wet cloth on it, in 
the pack. If his bowels have not been moved, give 
him first an enema, after that, treatment as directed 
above. 

If his head be hot, put a cold compress (wet cloth) 
on it, and renew it every three minutes. 

If he be feverish do not feed him, but give him 
cool drinks frequently; almond milk, fruit juices, 
etc. 

Kee]j the windows of his bedroom open day and 
night. Thus treated in time you can very often j) re- 
vent a long, serious disease. 

If after one treatment the patient feels better, 
but not well, repeat it the following day. Do not 
give him anything to eat until he is really hungry. 

In no case can you do any harm with the above 
treatment, but you may greatly benefit the patient. 



PART II. 
DISEASES TREATED 



ALBUMINURIA. 

Albuminuria is a kidney trouble. There are dif- 
ferent kinds. If it accompanies an acute disease, 
look for tlie treatment of that disease ; otherwise the 
treatment is as follows. A hygienic way of living, 
a mild vegetarian diet, milk, almond milk, moderate 
eating, tepid or warm and air baths; much out-of- 
door exercise will at least improve, if not entirely 
cure it. Kidney massage is also helpful. 

ANEMIA. 

Anaemia is poor blood to a high degree. If the 
case is not a very bad one, it is sufficient if the 
patient passes most of her time in the open air, exer- 
cising moderately, and taking air baths. Her diet 
must consist of fresh fruits, green steamed vegeta- 
bles, especially spinach, lettuce, radishes, turnip- 
greens, brown bread, or bread sticks, etc. Drink milk, 
buttermilk, almond milk, fruit juices. 

To prevent constipation, take an enema every day 
at the same time, in a lying position — a pint of water, 
70° F. 

83 



84 'SATVRE CURE 

In pernicious anaemia the patient ought to be 
moved to the country. There she should lie out-of- 
doors all day long; to be wheeled about sometimes 
is also helpful. The want of exercise is substituted 
by general massage, until the patient is strong 
enough to exercise sufficiently. If the stomach and 
bowels are affected give the patient a stomach pack 
of 74° F. every second night. Should this disturb 
her sleep, or if it does not grow warm, discontinue it. 

An anaemic girl should not marry until thoroughly 
restored. 

ANGINA PECTORIS (Nervous heart pain). 

First of all regulate your diet to avoid attacks of 
pain. Smoking and drinking of alcoholic drinks, 
must be avoided; also coffee and tea. Highly sea- 
soned food should not be eaten. Let the diet consist 
of green steamed vegetables and fruit. If kidney 
trouble or rheumatic affections be the cause, meat 
should not be eaten. For the evening meal eat but 
little and nothing that is very hot. 

A general massage, combined with a scientifically 
applied heart massage, vapor baths, gentle exercises, 
water treading and the avoiding of all excitement, 
worry, anger, fright, etc., will gradually cure the 
disease if no incurable organic trouble is the cause. 
At time of attack, give the patient hot foot, hand and 
heart applications. 

The patient should avoid all violent exercise, 
heavj' lifting, running, etc., but have every morning 



DISEASES TREATED. 85 

and evening resisting motions with arms and legs, 
and if he cannot have a masseur, massage his heart 
himself, rubbing from the breast bone towards the 
left arm. 

APPENDICITIS. 

Appendicitis is an inflammation of the appendix, 
accompanied by much pain. The swollen appendix 
can be felt in the right lower side of the abdomen. 
Its most frequent cause is constipation. It is gener- 
ally accompanied by fever, quick, hard, small pulse, 
and restless sleep. In the beginning, give the patient 
every hour an enema of 80° F. until profuse evacua- 
tions follow ; these to be followed, each by a remain- 
ing enema of 65° F. Do not give any purgatives, 
as they irritate the inflamed intestine still more. 
Further, give the patient abdominal packs day and 
night, first renewed every half hour ; later every two 
hours. They reduce the inflammation, prevent an 
extended peritonitis and suppuration of the connec- 
tive tissue back of the appendix, besides soothing 
the pain and decreasing the fever. Sitz baths of 90° 
F. have the same effect, and may be taken three or 
four times a day. 

The patient should have only a mild fluid diet — 
milk, buttermilk, almond milk, fruit juices, brown 
soup No. 1, and apple sauce. If the case is accom- 
panied by much vomiting, feed the patient^ during the 
first days with small remaining enemas of almond 
milk. This treatment is always satisfactory. 

After the fever is gone a gentle abdominal mas- 
sage is applied. 



86 y.iTVRE CURE 

APPETITE (Lost). 

A loss of appetite generally occurs with acute dis- 
eases, and with an acute catarrh of the stomach. It 
also results from overeating, and from unwhole- 
some, poisonous foods. 

First of all, give the stomach a rest by refraining 
from all food, and remove the cause. 

APPETITE (Abnormal ) . 

With some diseases there comes an abnormal ap- 
petite, a "ravenous hunger" shortly after a bounti- 
ful meal. The main cure for this condition is to eat 
very little and frequently in the beginning, and by 
and by a small meal at the regular time, applying 
stomach and calf packs, at least during the night, 
and if possible during the day. Massage of the 
digestive organs quickens the recovery. Add air 
baths and plenty of outdoor exercise. 

Old cases of hysteric epilepsy have been cured by 
us in this way. 

ASTHMA. 

Asthma is difficult breathing. When an attack 
comes, remove from the patient all tight clothing, 
and especially all pressure on his chest. Open all 
the windows in his room, and on a quiet day the door 
also, to cause a gentle circulation of the air, which 
is agreeable to the patient. Then sprinkle much 
water on his face and chest, and rub his whole body 
with dripping wet towels. 



DISEASES TREATED. 87 

If the attack comes during the night, let tlie patient 
put his feet in a basin of cold water. If the attack 
is a long one, heat water quickly and put vapor com- 
presses on his chest and back, renewing every ten 
minutes. If you have a vapor cabinet, give the 
patient a vapor bath directly, instead of the vapor 
compresses. It is of great help to many patients 
to press their thorax (chest) together during the 
attack. 

If the patient is able to do some exercises let him 
follow those which are termed stick exercises,* or 
give him chest exercises which are done in this way : 
the patient sits on a stool ; you put your foot behind 
him on the stool, and your knee against his back. 
Seize his wrists and draw his arms forward and up- 
ward, backwards and downwards, while the patient 
breathes deeply, resists a little the pulling up of 
arms going up, and exhales and pulls your resisting 
hands going back and down. 

To cure asthma thoroughly the patient should go 
to a Nature Cure sanitarium, where the causes of 
the disease can be systematically treated. 

BASEDOW'S DISEASE (Morbus Basedowii). 

This is a nervous disease with quickened heart 
action, swollen thyroid glands, and goggle eyes. 

The patient needs general and local treatment, the 
former consisting of cool sponge baths, and baths of 
90° F., alternate days, a mild diet, regular move- 

•See Figures 11 to 14. 



88 NATURE CUBE 

ments of the bowels, warm feet, living much out-of- 
doors, air baths, sun baths, bodily and mental rest, 
and a daily nerve massage, and of the thyroid glands. 
To cure the goggle eyes promptly, put an eye pack 
on the eyes every night, and take eye baths six to 
eight times during the day, preceded by massage of 
the upper eyelid, done in the following manner: 
Seize the upper eyelid between two fingers and make 
the motion of a coffee mill with it. These eye treat- 
ments also prevent more serious eye trouble. 

BOW-LEGGED CHILDREN. 

As prevention is better than cure, do not allow 
your baby to stand or walk much before its little 
legs are strong enough to carry its body. But when 
its legs are already bent put to their outer side a 
thin, narrow strip of wood covered with some soft 
material, and tie it at both ends with soft bands of 
ribbon. The pieces of wood must not cover or rub 
the ankle bone, nor the knee. Tighten the bands a 
little every day. Along with this, give him two or 
three times a day a gentle leg massage, rubbing legs 
upwards, and keep him in the open air playing in 
the sand all day long, if possible, but do not let him 
use his legs much. Give him healthy food, proper 
clothing, etc., and he will grow strong. 

BROKEN BONES. 

Remove all clothing from broken parts. Then 
place the patient so that the broken arm, leg, or 



DISEASES TREATED. 89 

whatever it may be, has a pillow or sand sack, etc., 
underneath it, the surface of which you can adapt to 
the normal form of the broken part, that it may rest 
upon this pillow. 

If the bone is not entirely broken and no displace- 
ment took place, it is sufficient to put some splints 
to the injured part, attached with strips of wet 
linen. Over these wrap dry flannel and keep the 
patient on a firm but not soft bed. This is especially 
necessary with broken ribs, because the success in 
the healing of the bones depends, to a great extent, 
upon the first adjustment of the broken parts of the 
bones. 

If a bone is entirely broken, let a second person 
hold the normally lying end, while you put the other 
part of the bone back to its place. Then tie around 
the place of fracture, three or four times, a wet 
bandage of three or four inches in width, but not 
too tightly on account of the swelling. Over this, tie 
two or three suitable splints. Over this, wrap again 
three or four layers of wet bandages, then dry 
absorbent cotton, and a dry flannel bandage. Cover 
the patient and let the injured part have complete 
rest. 

Whenever the heat of the injured parts makes the 
patient restless, remove flannel, cotton and upper 
wet bandage. Then wet the first bandage a little 
with a sponge, and put over the splints again a fresh 
wet one, and replace the cotton and flannel bandage. 

After three or four days, all the bandages are re- 
moved, the injured parts bathed with warm water, 
and bandaged again as in the beginning. 



90 yATVRE CVRE 

In complicated fractures the injured parts are 
massaged before bandaging tliem, in order to remove 
and bring to absorption the blood which has accumii- 
]ated tliere and make possible a perfect adjustment 
of the bone. 

After the bones have knit, remove all bandages 
and massage and exercise the injured parts regu- 
larlj^, in order to prevent their stiffening. 

If accompanied by fever, look up "Fevee." 

BURNS. 

Should your hair or clothes catch fire roll burning 
parts up quickly and tightly in a rug, a blanket, etc., 
to extinguish the flames, then put burnt parts directly 
into tepid water; later on, into cold water until all 
pain has gone, which sometimes takes only a short 
time ; in serious cases, hours. This is the only sure 
and quick cure for burns. 

Parts which you cannot hold in water, the face 
for instance, ought to have water continually poured 
over them until the pain has ceased. If tepid water 
is not at hand, begin directly with cold. Holding 
the burnt part in flour soothes the pain. Blisters 
from burns disappear while holding them in the 
water. If you have large blisters in a place which 
cannot be held in water, lance them and keep a wet 
rag around them for a long time, renewing it fre- 
quently. 

Cover open wounds either with a soft rag dipped in 
sweet oil or tepid water ; keep it on until granulation 



DISEASES TREATED. 91 

takes place. Then dampen it well, remove it care- 
fully, and cover the wound with soft, cold, wet linen, 
which you must frequently renew. 

Burns treated in this way heal more quickly than 
by any other method. 

CARBUNCLE AND FURUNCLE. 

The carbuncle is a very large boil. Its cause is 
impure blood. Our main aim must be to eradicate 
the poisons from the system. For this purpose we 
give the patient daily, for a time, a bed steam bath 
or a vapor-bath on a chair, followed by a bath 
of 90° F. for eight minutes, with a pour on the car- 
buncle. Day and night the carbuncle must be well 
covered with a pack three times its size, in order to 
influence the surrounding parts. This pack must be 
renewed when it becomes painful. The wet part 
may be from six to ten layers in thickness. If pos- 
sible, let the patient lie on the side where the car- 
buncle is, as in that position the pus flows out better. 

After the boil has opened, press it gently in order 
to thoroughly remove the impurities; wash it fre- 
quently with warm water. 

Keep the room well ventilated, and give the patient 
a very mild diet as indicated under "Fever." 

CATARRH OF THE STOMACH (Acute). 

The sjTnptoms of catarrh of the stomach are loss 
of appetite, thirst, belching, vomiting, dry coated 
tongue, headache, weakness and sometimes fever. 



92 NATURE CURE 

In slight cases, eat very little for a few days, or 
nothing at all. Drink every half hour a little cool 
water. Take moderate out-of-door exercise on warm, 
sunny days. Three times a day and during the night 
an abdominal pack and foot packs, which remain 
two hours in the daytime and all night if comfort- 
able. Give stomach massage twice a day, five to eight 
minutes.* 

In more serious cases, accompanied by fever, treat 
the patient as follows : 

From 8 to 10 A. M., abdominal and calf packs,t 
followed by a cool sponge bath. 

From 10 A. M. to 10.30 A. M., rest. 

10.30 A. M., a trunk bath, 90° F., fifteen minutes. 

From 11 A. M. to 1 P. M., abdominal and calf 
packs. 

1 P. M., an enema of 72° F., and after the evacua- 
tion, a remaining enema. 

From 1.30 P. M. to 3 P. M., above-named packs. 

From 3 to 3.30 P. M., rest. 

3.30 P. M., bath as above. 

From 4 P. M. to 5 P. M., rest. 

From 5 P. M. to 7 P. M., packs as above. 

From 7 P. M. to 7.30 P. M., rest. 

7.30 P. M., enemas as above. 

8.30 P. M., packs as above, which stay on until 
morning unless the patient grows restless in them, 
in which case they are renewed. 

*See Figure 2. 

fSee Figures 17 and 18. 



DISEASES TREATED. 93 

During the feverish period, give the patient only 
a fluid diet, consisting of almond milk, fruit juices, 
Quaker oats soup, milk, buttermilk, Dr. Lahmann's 
pure cocoa, etc. 

Massage of the digestive organs after the fever 
is over will help to restore their normal functions. 

You can apply self -massage by kneading the abdo- 
men, with fine results, if done for eight minutes every 
morning and evening, in a lying or standing position. 

CATAERH OF THE STOMACH (Chronic). 

Chronic catarrh of the stomach generally develops 
from the acute, and its symptoms are the same, but 
not so pronounced. 

1. Eat often, but little at a time; chew the food 
well. 

2. Avoid highly seasoned food of every kind. 

3. Avoid old cheese, potatoes, gravy, fried foods, 
pie, meats, coffee, tea and alcoholic drinks. 

4. Do not drink anything at your meals, nor half 
an hour before eating ; nor for two hours afterward. 

5. Eat frequently instantaneous tapioca, rice, oat- 
meal, wheathearts, corn, barley, peas, beans and other 
green vegetables which do not cause any discomfort, 
stewed fruit, apple sauce, soft boiled eggs and toast. 

6. Eat no meat except a small portion of a tender 
fowl or game. 

7. Drink once a day a cup of almond milk. 

An hour before your noon meal put on the stomach 
and calf packs, and keep them on until an hour after 
the meal. Put same packs on at night. 



04 NATURE CURE 

Morning and evening take a trunk bath of 90° F., 
an hour long ; hotter water for the feet. 

Stomach massage is of great importance, if it can 
be had ; it quickens the complete recovery. One kind 
of massage the patient can do himself to great ad- 
vantage is shown in picture.* 

CATAEEH OF THE BOWELS. 

Catarrh of the bowels is caused by wrong diet, 
cold, emotions, or by the spreading of an inflamma- 
tion near the bowels. Its main symptom is diarrhoea ; 
further, pain in the abdomen, flatulence and some- 
times loss of appetite accompany it. 

It is treated the same as catarrh of the stomach, 
except that abdominal packs are applied and abdo- 
minal massage given, besides two enemas, and six 
remaining enemas daily till normal and free evacu- 
ations follow without any mucus. 

CATAEEHAL PNEUMONIA. 

This disease is treated the same as bronchial 
catarrh. 

CHOLEEA INFANTUM. 

This disease is chiefly caused by wrong diet. Its 
symptoms are diarrha?a, loss of appetite, vomiting, 
pain in the abdomen, with the child growing pale, 
thin, dim-eyed and looking much older. 

*See Figure 2. 



DISEASES TREATED. 95 

This disease, so fatal to babies, becomes less so 
when the mother nurses her own child and keeps it 
clean. If she* cannot nurse it, it is best to feed it 
with cow's milk to which is added one-sixth part of 
fresh fruit juice, or one-eighth of water and milk 
sugar. I have seen very good results from feeding 
babies on almond milk mixed with equal parts of 
water in which figs were boiled. 

During cholera infantum it is sometimes advisable 
not to urge any food upon the baby, but to give 
it an enema followed by frequent small (one to two 
teaspoonfuls) remaining enemas of almond milk. In 
very obstinate cases of diarrhoea it is advisable to 
cleanse the bowels frequently by enemas (one to two 
cups), followed after evacuation by small (one 
spoon) remaining enemas. Hot compresses on the 
abdomen and baths of 95° F. help greatly to hasten 
the recovery. 

When all danger is over give the child daily one 
or two baths of 90° F., or 85° F., for strengthening, 
and often brown soup, Quaker oats soup, mush- 
room soup, etc. 

COLD IN THE HEAD." 

Take either a sun-bath, vapor-bath, dry pack, or 
sweat, followed by a warm 90° F. bath. 

Take much out-of-door exercise and keep your 
body in an equal warmth. If you are not hungry, 
fast a few days, and drink only fruit juices and 
almond milk. 



96 NATURE CURE 

Take two enemas daily, if constipated. 
During the night put packs on throat, stomach, 
and calves of legs. 

COLIC. 

Go to bed to get all parts of your body into an 
equal warmth. 

Take a remaining enema five or six times through 
the day. 

Rub your abdomen around the navel like a coffee 
mill, gently at first ; later on, deeper. Put hot com- 
pressses on your abdomen and eat a little of a mild 
diet, rice, stewed fruit, etc., or fast. If the pains are 
very great, take a hot bath (108° to 112° F.) or a 
vapor-bath. In most cases vapor compresses are 
sufficient. 

CONSTIPATION. 

Take every morning, exactly at the same time, an 
enema. If not very successful in the beginning, take 
two or three a day, each evacuation being followed 
by a remaining enema. 

More important than the above is the abdominal 
massage, which alone is able to restoi-e strength to 
weak bowels, and to substitute the abdominal pres- 
sure. If you cannot have a well trained masseur or 
masseuse for it, do it yourself, kneading and rubbing 
the abdomen for ten minutes, mornings and even- 
ings. Use also physical culture exercises,* and 

*See Figures 3, 4, 5. 



DISEASES TREATED 97 

"pick up pebbles," page 54, every morning and 
evening till tired. 

Swimming and rowing are of great benefit. Chew 
your food till it is a fluid. 

Eat freely of fruits and nuts, dates, figs, boney, 
whole wheat bread, bread sticks, and vegetables as 
peas, beans in puree form. Also the fruit soups as 
given in the chapter on "Hygienic Cooking." 

Garden work is excellent if the patient can have it. 

CONSUMPTION (Lungs). 

Consumption is only infectious by the sputimi (ex- 
pectoration). A tendency in this direction can be 
inherited, or it can be acquired as an outcome of a 
chronic inflammation of the lungs (pneumonia). 
Generally the patient coughs, expectorates, has a 
quickened pulse and breathing, night sweats, fever, 
and often pain in the chest. 

Not only Nature Cure physicians, but those of the 
allopathic school, have come to recognize that it is 
not medicine that cures consumption, but fresh air all 
the time, air-baths, and a diet of fruits, green vege- 
tables, nuts, cream, milk, eggs and butter. 

No disease is easier prevented than consumption. 
As it is spreading so rapidly, the Government should 
establish rules and regulations which would cause 
its decrease. In one of these, Germany might be fol- 
lowed. There, in all the schools, after each lesson 
of fifty minutes, ten minutes is given for recreation — 
a run in the yard. At the same time all the windows 



98 NATURE CURE 

in the class rooms are oj^ened wide. In rainy 
weather a trot in line under long colonnades would 
accomplish the same results. 

Further, the law ought to forbid consumptives to 
marry, as their children may inherit the tendency 
for it. These two regulations alone would greatly 
lessen the number of cases. If regulations for the 
proper ventilation of factories were enforced, the 
disease would be well-nigh extinguished. 

Advanced consumption is incurable. 

In the first stages it is cured by the following: 
Eveiy morning and evening take an air-bath as long 
as possible, at least half an hour. 

Out-of-door exercise with long, deep breathing in 
pure air, all day long. 

No heavy, tight, closely-woven underwear, but a 
light, open mesh fabric, or a chemise, or shirt alone, 
in summer time. No furs, and an overcoat only in 
very cold weather. 

A meatless diet, as stated above. 

Massage and packs of the lungs (see Figures 22 
and 23), or any affected part,, will considerably 
quicken the recovery. 

With consumption of the throat, spare your voice, 
gargle frequently, or take mouth baths of lemon 
juice and water. 

Throat and calf packs during the night. 

A warm 90° F. bath once a day, with a throat, chest 
and back pour, 40° to 80° F., ought to be taken, too. 

Wlioever does the above faithfully will recover 
thoroughly, and grow strong and healthy. 



DIBEASES TREATED 90 

CORNS. 

Take a hot foot-bath (100° to 106° F.) of soap 
water, thirty minutes ; wash the feet with cold water 
and remove the softened corn with your penknife 
or finger nail. If it does not come off entirely, take 
another foot-bath to soften the rest. 

Instead of the foot-bath you may put thick, wet 
packs for several nights on the corn to soften it; 
remove in the morning as much of it as is soft. In 
two or three mornings the corn will have been re- 
moved. 

COUGH. 

A cough is a symptom of a disease, not a disease 
itself. Look for this, and treat it as directed, 

CROUP (Membranaceous). 

Membranaceous croup is an inflammation and 
swelling of the mucous membrane of the throat, with 
an excretion covering it which is coughed out as soon 
as the effect of Nature Cure treatment has changed 
the dry, hard cough into a loose one. 

It generally begins with the symptoms of a slight 
catarrh, then, as a rule, follow sudden attacks of a 
hard cough, with difficult breathing, approaching suf- 
focation, accompanied by a peculiar, penetrating, 
long sound. 

At first these attacks come at long intervals, 
then they are of more frequent occurrence. When 
the blood becomes overloaded with carbonic acid, the 
breathing grows shorter and shorter, and not so loud. 



100 NATURE CURE 

The patient appears better, but on the contrary, this 
is the most critical time, and death often follows in 
an apparently quiet slumber. 

Croup is treated in the same way as a bronchial 
catarrh, only we give the bath 90° F. three times a 
day, morning, noon and night, and have the patient 
gargle with cool water every half hour. 

If a severe attack comes on in the night, put the 
patient directly into a bath of 90° F., cooled down 
to 85° after a few minutes; then a cold pour on the 
patient's body, chest, back and throat. The water in 
the bath must reach a little above the navel of the 
patient. Even in the height of an attack, do not hesi- 
tate to give this bath, for then it is most needed, and 
has saved many a life. 

Continue the treatment for some time, even after 
all the symptoms of croup have disappeared. 

CURVATURE OF SPINE. 

Fresh air day and night. 

Every day a cold sponge bath, or a tub bath of 
90° F., with a back pour of 60° F. 

The diet must consist mainly of fruits, vegetables 
and nuts ; no meat. 

Twice a day massage the back downwards and 
pack the back and calves during the night. Further, 
apply spinal bandages and a stretching apparatus. 
Use exercises called "stick exercises."* 

"See Figures 11 to 14. 



2 







DISEASES TREATED 101 

DANDRUFF. 

In slight cases, dandruff disappears through the 
following treatment. Draw a straight line from 
front to back of head, near the ear. Wrap a soft 
rag around j'our forefinger, dip it into the yolk of 
an egg, and rub it well into the scalp at the drawn 
line. Then make lines successively, one inch apart, 
all over the scalp, rubbing the egg well in. Then 
take a clean rag and warm water and rub along each 
line with it. Finally wash the whole scalp and hair 
twice in warm water and ivory soap. Then rinse it 
well with warm water, and dry it. If two or three 
of these treatments do not remove the dandruff, it 
is deeper rooted, and a series of vapor-baths, a fruit 
and vegetable diet, and general massage must be 
applied. 

DIABETES MELLITUS. 

This peculiar disease comes from insufficient action 
of many organs, with much sugar in the blood and 
urine. 

Its causes are various — infectious diseases, a cold, 
high living, wrong diet, insufficient mastication, or 
an organic hurt may bring it about. Sugar in the 
urine is its main sjrmptom. Indigestion, constipa- 
tion, vertigo, headache, and loss of appetite generally 
accompany it. 

The diet is here of the greatest importance. Do 
not eat much at a time. Take morning, noon and 
night a tumblerful of well whipped bonnyclabber. 



102 NATURE CURE 

Along with this, drink almond milk and fruit juices. 
Eat moderately fruits and green, steamed or raw 
vegetables, as lettuce, celery, tomatoes, radishes, also 
eggs, chestnuts, nuts, potatoes in a limited quantity, 
but not much starchy food ; no meat, no sweet things 
of any kind, no coffee, tea, nor alcoholic drinks. 
Besides this we must make the skin act. Give the 
patient every morning a cold sponge bath, followed 
by gentle rubbing in wiping him. Then give him, 
according to his strength, either every day, or every 
other day, a full tub bath of 93° F. for eight or 
twelve minutes. These baths help the change of 
matter and prevent the disagreeable itching and car- 
buncles. 

Strong patients may take a sweat every twelve or 
fourteen days, or a vapor-bath. 

Take regularly sun- and air-baths; they burn up 
the sugar in the sj^stem and greatly improve the 
blood. 

One of the greatest healing factors in diabetes 
mellitus is a general, scientifically applied massage. 
If you have no one to give it, rub arms and legs of 
patient gently upwards, back and chest downwards, 
stomach as shown in the illustration,* and the abdo- 
men around navel; his left side down and his right 
side up, each part for five minutes. 

If patient is strong enough, he may do some physi- 
cal culture exercises, according to his strength.f 

Patient ought to eat little and masticate it long. 

•See Figure 2. 

tSee Figures 3, 4, 11 to 16. 



DISEASES TREATED 103 

Medicine can do no good to the patient, but a stay 
in the mountains, and still better in a Nature Cure 
sanatorium, is of great benefit. 

Certain symptoms of -this disease, as carbuncle, 
furuncle and constipation, need special treatment. 
Look them up under each named heading. 

DIARRHCEA, FLUX, DYSENTERY. 

All three are treated much alike. 

If a diarrhoea is not accompanied by alarming 
symptoms, it suffices to put the patient on a diet of 
instantaneous tapioca soup, barley soup, almond 
milk, brown soup No. 1, milk toast, etc., besides ap- 
plying enemas 80° F., with remaining enemas follow- 
ing the evacuation. 

For flux and dysentery, give the same diet; add 
cooked huckleberries, either fresh or dried, and 
blackberry wine. Instead of the water enemas, give 
them of thin oatmeal soup from three to six a day. 
If an evacuation occur, let it be followed by a remain- 
ing enema. 

Besides these, give the patient several sitz baths a 
day, 90° F., for ten or fifteen minutes. They soothe 
the pain, decrease the inflammation, regulate the 
movements of the bowels, and make the circulation 
normal. 

In case the patient is very weak and sensitive, even 
towards tepid water, it is better to choose mounting 
sitz baths; that is, make them of a temperature of 
92° F., adding hot water until it is 105° F., twenty 
minutes long. 



104 • NATURE CURE 

If you have not a sitz bath, put from four to six 
vapor compresses on his abdomen, each ten minutes 
duration, equal to forty to sixty minutes duration. 
These latter serve to remove severe abdominal pains 
and to help in removing poisonous food which may 
have entered the bowels. 

Cramp-like pains at the anus are relieved by local 
vapor compresses. 

A scientifically applied abdominal massage helps 
greatly to cure the disease. 

DIPHTHERIA. 

Diphtheria is an acute disease caused by a poison- 
ing of the whole organism, with special characteristic 
symptoms of the mucous membrane of the upper 
breathing channels, also of the intestines. The dis- 
ease may originate of itself, or it can be caused by 
contagion. 

Many authors regard diphtheria as a purely local 
disease, where the poison is received first by the 
mouth only, and much later entering the blood. We 
think differently, and believe that the poison first 
enters the blood through the breathing organs, or 
through the digestive organs, and later forms those 
local symptoms mentioned above. 

This theory is proved by the circumstance that 
diphtheria has generally a period of incubation, in 
the form of a feverish, general sick feeling at a time 
when there are not yet any anatomical changes 
noticeable in the throat. 



DISEASES TREATED 103 

Treatment. — We can only prevent contagion by 
avoiding direct contact with, the breath of the patient, 
and by continual good ventilation in the sick room. 
In accordance with our theory of the cause, we try 
to do the following: 

1. To prevent or stop the formation and absorp- 
tion of products of decomposition in the blood. 

2. To bring out of the body in the shortest, quick- 
est and least dangerous way those j)roduets of de- 
composition already present. 

3. To increase the power of resistance of tlie 
organic albumen to decomposition. 

4. To decrease quickly the local processes of in- 
flammation and decay, and the consequent poisoning 
of the blood. 

Number one we reach especially easy from the be- 
ginning period of incubation, by g'iving every day 
three or four enemas of half a pint of water of 72° 
F. After every evacuation, we give a little remain- 
ing enema in the form of a few spoonfuls of colder 
water, 63° F. 

Number two is accomplished by making the skin 
act. The skin is decidedly a much larger and more 
dangerous field of disease than the minor organs, or 
even the small throat. Nature herself points to the 
pores of the skin as a way for excreting the products 
of decomposition, and our practice has taught us that 
these cases generally improve quickly, and end well, 
where from the beginning there was good and fre- 
quent perspiration. To this end we apply trunk 



106 yATVRE CURE 

packs,* renewed every two hours, and packs of the 
legs,t renewed every four hours, followed each time 
by a sponge bath or wash off, of those parts which 
were packed with water, of 70° F. 

If the patient has a good constitution, and if the 
fever is not high, we may apply with even more suc- 
cess some bed steam baths, or foot steam. 

If the fever is high, we give every day two or three 
half baths, 90° F., followed by a pour on the upper 
back and throat. These baths decrease the fever and 
prepare the skin for a profuse perspiration. Further, 
they draw the blood from the endangered mucous 
membrane to the surface of the body. It is evident 
that by these proceedings we satisfy also number 
three, especially when there is a steady, good ventila- 
tion, and the patient is given only a mild fluid diet 
of cooling fruit juices. 

By following the above directions we will have 
prevented the most serious kinds of diphtheric proc- 
esses. Nevertheless, if they appear in a slight way, 
we must also apply local treatment. This is done by 
deep gargling every hour with lukewarm water, 
mixed with a few drops of lemon juice, or if that 
causes pain, by mouth baths. Not less important are 
cool packs around the neck, as in picture.^ 

In the beginning, these are to be renewed every 
forty or sixty minutes to reduce the inflammation; 

*See Figure No. 21. 

fSee Figure 18. 

^See Figures 19 and 20. 



DISEASEfi TREATED 107 

later, a little warmer, and only changed every two 
or three hours to better expel the products of decom- 
position. 

Diphtheria treated in the above way seldom ends 
fatally. 

ECZEMA. 

Eczema is an inflammatory excreting process in 
the skin without putrefaction. 

Its causes are either chemical or mechanical irrita- 
tions, or internal diseases, as rickets, chronic catarrh 
of the stomach, scrofulousness, etc. In most cases 
it is sufficient to put rice powder on the attacked 
place, and cover it with a thin piece of lawn or gauze. 
In order to remove the excretion, wash it quickly, or 
pat it with absorbent cotton dipped in warm water, 
dry it with cotton as well, and let it dry by the air. 

When scabs are formed, soften them by patting 
them frequently with sweet oil. With this almost 
dry treatment you have more success than with 
much bathing and packs. When the scaling-off period 
has begun, you may give patient sometimes short 
tub baths of 85° F. to reduce inflammation. No soap 
to be used. 

EPILEPSY. 

This nervous disease consists of an attack of un- 
consciousness, and in most cases of contractions of 
the muscles. Its cause is unknown, but a tendency 
to it is often inherited. 



108 NATURE CUBE 

« 

Overwork, grief, fright, worry, gluttony, self- 
abuse and anaemia favor an attack. The attacks 
often come unexpectedly ; sometimes the patient feels 
its approach. 

The pupils of the eyes are wide and do not con- 
tract when light strikes them. The face grows pale 
first, then purple. Some patients fall into a long 
sleep after the attack, and others soon grow con- 
scious again. 

This dreadful disease can either appear in con- 
nection with other diseases, as scrofulousness, nose 
and ear catarrh, worms, etc., or it comes as an inde- 
pendent disease. 

In the first ease, treat the disease which caused 
the attacks. In the latter case, do the following: 
During the attack do nothing but prevent the patient 
from hurting himself; after it is over, give him a 
refreshing, cool, sponge bath, and cold compresses 
on the forehead for headache. 

Between the attacks, treat the patient thus: Give 
him every day either a hot foot-bath of fifteen 
minutes, followed by a cold wash-off of the whole 
body, or a foot vapor. 

Further, give him every day a general and fore- 
head massage. 

His bowels must move daily. If constipated, cause 
evacuations daily by enemas and a diet of whole 
wheat bread, breadsticks, prunes, boiled figs, bonny- 
clabber, etc. 

He ought to have at each meal only one-half as 
much as he would like to eat, and he should be in- 



DISEASES TREATED 109 

duced to masticate all his food well and slowly, four 
times as long as lie has been doing. 

Coffee, tea, alcoholic drinks, sweets, cocoanut, all 
medicines, meats and fried food should be avoided. 

Some epileptic people have a ravenous hunger 
almost all the time. Do not let them eat all day 
long, but give the patient a scanty meal at regular 
times, and an apple, an orange, or some other fruit 
between meals. This must be strictly adhered to, 
otherwise he will never become well. 

Many a patient has an attack when he thinks of 
something sad or worrying. Such a one must be 
trained to use all his will-power, never to let such 
thoughts get hold of him, but to discard them immedi- 
ately, and recall in their stead the very bright, funny 
or joyful events of his life. It is wonderful how 
this works. 

I had several patients who could thus prevent an 
attack, even when they felt it coming upon them, and 
they grew quite well. 

Keep everything sad or gloomy away from the 
patient, and let only bright, joyful influences sur- 
round him. 

Fresh air, day and night, and much out-of-door 
exercise, besides gymnastics every morning and 
evening.* Air-baths and water treading tend greatly 
to a prompt recovery. 

•See Figures 3, 4, 6, 11 to 16. 



110 NATURE CURE 

FAINTING. 

Fainting comes with most heart diseases, hysteria, 
great pain, loss of blood, overwork, bad air, fear, 
fright, weakness, etc. 

Put the patient in a horizontal position, loosen all 
tight clothes around the neck and waist, wash his 
face lavishly with cold water, rub his neck and chest 
gently downwards. If these measures are not effect- 
ual, dash a glass of cold water into his face. 

Then treat regularly the disease which caused him 
to faint. 

. FALL, CONCUSSION OF THE BEAIN. 

Keep continually cool compresses on the patient's 
head and give him directly a tepid 85° F. enema, and 
every hour a remaining enema of cold water. 
Further, give the patient a tub bath of 85° F., in 
which you rub his legs and arms thoroughly up- 
wards; chest and back downwards, but no longer 
after his armpits have grown cool. 

Then give him a chest and back pour of 70° F., and 
put him to bed with a hot-water bag to his feet, and 
a cold compress on his head. Kepeat bath after two 
hours. If patient vomits and can swallow, give him 
often a teaspoonful of cold water. The diet must 
be mild and spiceless. 

FEVER. 

Formerly fever was regarded as a disease ; not so 
any more. We now regard it as a symptom of a 



DISEASES TREATED 111 

disease, and a healing factor. As this has been ex- 
plained before, I shall not repeat. 

One main symptom of fever is that great masses 
of products of decomposition enter the blood, and 
thus by its circulation, being carried to all parts of 
the body, they endanger life. A quickened heart 
action, causing perspiration and transpiration, as 
well as the excreting abilities of kidneys and lungs, 
will bring relief if great products of decomposition 
are not created in the sick body by wrong diet. By 
a "wrong diet" we mean all animal food, because at 
the time the animal is being killed there are products 
of decomposition— urea, xanthine, etc., in its body, 
which, entering the patient's digestive organs, de- 
mand for their digestion an increased action of heart, 
kidneys and blood-vessels. A healthy person may 
notice this in his own body, for after eating a good 
portion of meat he will feel his heart acting much 
quicker than after having eaten vegetables, fruit and 
cereals. Therefore, no feverish person should be 
given any animal food, except milk and eggs. A 
vegetarian diet does not bring into our bodies prod- 
ucts of decomposition, neither do milk nor eggs. In 
order to keep up the resistive power of the body it 
is best, and the patient's instinct says the same, to 
give him especially fruit juices, cold soups,* cooked 
fruits, cereals, etc. If it is a case of prolonged fever, 
it would be advisable to add to the above some 
legumes — puree of peas or beans, almond milk and 
green vegetables. 

Have the windows open day and night. 

"See Chapter on "Hygienic Cooking." 



112 NATURE CURE 

FLATULENCE. 

Flatulence indicates either an acute or chronic 
disturbance of the digestion caused by certain things 
we have eaten, as cabbage, kale, legumes, cakes, beer, 
etc., or a sedentary life. It may be caused by abdom- 
inal diseases, catarrhal condition, indigestion caused 
by no or too little mastication of food, hysteria, 
sores, etc. 

Masticate the food well and slowly; avoid the 
above-named dishes ; take abdominal and calf packs 
every night, or if a bad case, at night, and two each 
day, of two hours in length. 

If it came with a cold, put vapor compresses on 
patient's abdomen, or apply a large hot-water bag. 

Further, give the patient enemas for regular evac- 
uations, and massage of the digestive organs, besides 
exercises "pull the branch," "sitting up," "head 
turning,"* and "picking up pebbles," page 54. 

FLUX. (See Diabehosa.) 

GALL-STONES. 

Sometimes people have gall-stones without suf- 
fering from them, even if they are so large that you 
can feel them from the outside. At other times they 
signify a serious disease, with great pain in attacks 
of colic. This pain is caused by the gall-stones pass- 
ing through the gall ducts and coming in contact 

"See Figures 3, 5, 6. 



DISEASES TREATED 113 

with an obstacle. The pain comes generally very 
suddenly a few hours after a meal, and is felt mostly 
in the stomach, and in the right side of the abdomen. 
It is seldom confined to these places, but extends into 
the back, shoulders, right arm, and sometimes even 
into the legs. The abdomen is swollen and the liver 
very painful to the touch. Sometimes the patient 
has chills, is delirious and vomits. The pulse is 
irregular. 

This disease attacks women more frequently than 
men — three times as often — because the women lace, 
and lead a more sedentary life. 

In order to find out whether there are gall-stones, 
notice all the symptoms and search the fteces for 
at least a week, by putting them in a sieve and dis- 
solving them in warm water. Thus you sometimes 
find the stones, sometimes only pieces, or none at all, 
if the stone has passed back into the gall-bladder. 

The treatment must be a general one and a 
symptomatic one. The best means to relieve the pain 
is a hot sitz bath or half bath of 105° to 110° F. 
These reduce the pain, but in some cases vapor com- 
presses put on the liver relieve it even more. These 
measures not only relieve the pain, but the heat 
causes a relaxing of the painfully contracted muscu- 
lar walls of the gall-bladder and ducts, thus helping 
an easier passing of the gall-stones towards the 
intestines. Hot enemas help to relieve the pain. 

At symptoms of collapse, conquer weakness by 
gently rubbing the patient with damp cloths. 

After the attack, the patient must take regular 



114 NATURE CURE 

treatment as follows : Daily, two or three enemas of 
a pint or so of warm water, 75° F., followed after 
evacuation by a 60° F. remaining enema. These 
alone cause a freer flow of bile, consequently the 
moving of the obstacle — the accumulation of bile. 
The appetite increases, the urine shows less bile and 
the faeces look more normal. 

Then give the patient every day a cold sponge 
bath, followed by moderate friction, which lessens 
the itching and sometimes banishes it entirely. 

Also give the patient every day from two to four 
sitz baths, 85° to 90° F., from forty to sixty minutes 
each. 

These baths improve the action of the bowels, the 
excretion of bile, the appetite, the urine, and remove 
headache and sleeplessness, and prevent an over- 
filling of bile in the blood. 

The diet must be a mild one and not highly sea- 
soned — oatmeal, toast, green vegetables, fruits, let- 
tuce, bonnyclabber, almond milk, fruit soups, etc. 
Exercises "pull the branch," "sitting up" and 
"head turning,"* every few hours, if possible, help 
greatly to a prompt recovery. 

A continued diet with fruit acids, and some onions 
daily, prevent the formation of new stones, 

GONORRHCEA. 

Gonorrhoea is nearly always caused by infection 
during intercourse with a person who has the dis- 

*See Figures 3, 5, 6. 



DISEASES TREATED 115 

ease. It is an inflammation of the mucous membrane 
of the urethra caused by the transmission of gonor- 
rhoea pus by the infecting person. 

In order to prevent the infection take immediately 
after the intercourse several long (forty-five to sixty 
minutes) sitz baths, of 85° F. Then put on a T-tie. 
This tie consists of a piece of linen in the shape of a 
T. Wring it out in cold water ; fasten the upper part 
around your waist and the lower broader part be- 
tween the legs, with special six- to eight-fold rags 
around the penis. Put over the whole a T-tie of 
flannel, wear it all night and day, renewed during 
the day every three or six hours, followed by a wash 
of affected parts or by a sitz bath. This pack and 
the sitz baths draw out the poison and prevent the 
infection. 

Women should rinse the vagina frequently with 
"Stamm's Vagina Cleaner," and take the above- 
mentioned sitz baths. A plain vaginal syringe does 
not do the work so effectually as the "Cleaner." 

Rest as much as possible. 

Do not drink coffee, tea, or alcoholic drinks. 

Continue two to four sitz baths, and wear the T-tie 
day and night until cured. 

Strong peoi^le may take two or three vapor-baths 
a week also, as they help to bring the poison out of 
the system. 

Any time the T-tie grows too hot or uncomfortable 
it is to be renewed. 

With this treatment the acute as well as the 
chronic gonorrhoea will be cured. 



116 NATURE CUBE 



GOUT. 



Gout is a diseased condition of the whole body, 
caused by an incomplete change of matter through a 
wrong way of living, especially too rich a diet and 
want of out-of-door exercise. 

The first symptom is generally a great pain in the 
big toe of one foot during the night. The toe is red, 
hot and swollen. The patient is feverish with an 
increased pulse. The pain grows less towards 
morning. 

Sometimes there is only one acute attack, but in 
chronic gout generally several joints are attacked 
quite frequently. In the course of time the joints 
grow more and more disfigured by deposits of uric 
acid. 

There is also a gout of the skin, of the bowels, and 
a cartilage gout. 

Acute gout and chronic gout of the joints can be 
cured if the patient is willing to change his mode 
of life, provided there are no serious organic dis- 
eases connected with it, although the disfigured joints 
can never be made normal again, but can be much 
improved. 

For an acute attack of gout put the leg with the 
attacked foot in a horizontal position, wrap lower 
leg in warm cotton and put some hot-water bags or 
heated bricks around it. If the patient can stand 
damp heat give him either hot foot-baths, vapor com- 
presses on paining foot, or vapor foot-baths. 

,W]ien thus the attack of the first night is passed, 



DISEASES TREATED 117 

give the patient next day frequent vapor compresses, 
or increasing (in heat) hot foot-baths, and between 
these, foot packs. Continue this treatment for three 
or four days until you feel sure no attack will recur. 
After acute attacks are thus averted treat their 
cause — the chronic gout. The treatment is the same 
as that for rheumatism. 

GRIPPE (Influenza). 

This disease is a feverish cold. 

Every day take two or three half-baths, 90° F. 

Day and night take trunk packs changed every two 
hours, and foot packs changed every four hours, 
followed each time by a sponge bath of 70° F. Dur- 
ing the night the packs need not be changed unless 
the patient grows restless. 

Give him two or three enemas, and six remaining 
enemas daily. 

Let the patient gargle frequently with lemon juice 
and water. 

If the fever is not high give him also some vapor- 
baths or dry sweats. (See figure 30.) 

No solid food or animal food must be taken while 
the fever lasts; give him fruit juices and almond 
milk. 

Let him have plenty of fresh air day and night, 

HEADACHE. 

This, in most cases, is the symptom of a dis- 
turbance in your body, or of a disease, and disap- 
pears with the cure of them. 



118 NATURE CURE 

When no cause for it can be found, as a cold, 
stomach trouble, constipation, ana?mia, etc., it is gen- 
erally of a nervous kind. Overworked people should 
take a rest. 

With a sick headache, fast a few days; take 
stomach and calf packs, besides plenty of outdoor 
leisure walks, or garden work. 

Avoid all alcoholic drinks and smoking. 

If the head is very hot and the feet cold, take hot 
foot-baths and practice water treading to regulate 
your circulation. 

For a habitual nervous headache, take a regular 
course of nerve treatment, and you will be cured. If 
you cannot have that, do the best you can by chang- 
ing your wrong way of living to a hygienic one and 
apply the nerve packs. (Figures 24, 25, 26, 27.) 

With any organic trouble, treat the affected organ 
and the headache will disappear. 

HEART TEOUBLE (Valvular). 

Valvular heart disease, in most cases, is the out- 
come of an inflammation of the heart, causing either 
a contraction of the blood vessels in the heart, or 
enlarging of the holes, so that the valves cannot 
close; or contractions of the valves themselves. 

The symptoms are so various, according to which 
valve or vessel is affected, that it would lead too far 
to describe them. Irregular circulation, shortness 
of breath when mounting stairs, etc., congestion in 
other organs, are regular occurrences, if compensa- 



DiaE.iHES TREATED 119 

tion in the form of the thickening of the heart 
muscles does not take place. 

Valvular heart trouble, if curable, can only be 
cured by the natural healing power in the patient's 
own body, assisted and stimulated by a strictly 
hygienic way of living, scientifically applied heart 
massage, and a diet consisting mainly of fruits, 
green vegetables and nuts. No alcoholic drinks, tea, 
coffee, flatulent dishes, soups or medicines. Increase 
the number of meals, but eat little at a time. 

You should have an evacuation every day by eat- 
ing much fruit and whole wheat bread ; or if neces- 
sary, by enemas. 

Avoid all excess in exercise; no running, jumping 
or even quick walking up an incline. There should 
be no bicycle riding, dancing, swimming, etc. 

Indulge daily in walking on even ground, and in 
gymnastic exercises. Those indicated in illustra- 
tions are very helpful when executed without haste.* 

Tepid half baths of short duration and sponge 
baths are very beneficial, but must be applied by a 
second person. 

During the greater part of the year live at a shady 
place in the mountains and take level walks in the 
neighborhood. Spend all of your time out-of-doors. 

HEAET TROUBLE (Nervous). 

This disease is treated the same as Angina 
Pectoris. 

•See Figures 3, 4, 6, and 11 to 16, inclusive. 



120 NATURE CURE 

HEMOPHILIA. 

This is a kind of scorbute. It is in the whole 
system, with much inclination for bleeding, which is 
sometimes difficult to stop on account of the wrong 
composition of the blood, which makes it hard to 
coagulate. Profuse bleedings occur sometimes 
after an insignificant cause, like pricking the gums 
with a toothpick, a slight scratch, etc., on account of 
the weakness of the arterial walls. 

The first thing to do, therefore, is to make the 
walls of the arteries strong and to create healthy 
blood. As the blood is poor in lime, and overfilled 
with carbonic acid, the diet of the patient should con- 
tain much lime and natron (soda). 

These we have especially in raw and steamed 
green vegetables and juicy fruits. Besides this, the 
patient should take as little salt with his meals as 
possible, because it irritates the walls of the arteries 
and it creates an artificial thirst — thus watery blood. 

To improve the blood still more, the patient should 
be much out of doors, take sun-baths and air-baths. 
Cold sponge baths and tub baths of 90° F., lasting 
five to eight minutes, taken every day, improve the 
capillaries. Gentle massage and moderate exercises 
should also be taken daily. 



DISEASES TREATED 121 

HAIR FALLING OUT. 

The hair comes out through various causes, as 
after typhoid fever, skin diseases, etc. Worry and 
nervousness will also make it come out. 

The main thing to stop its coming out is frequent 
washing of the scalp, with gentle backward rubbing. 
Hygienic living aids in retaining the hair, because it 
creates good blood. 

Wear no head covering, or a very light one. 

Do not worry, and masticate your food slowly. 

HEMOBEHAGE. 

Hemorrhage is a flow of blood from the body. If 
the hemorrhage comes with a cough, then it usually 
is from the lungs; if vomited, from the stomach. 
Blood from the lungs is generally of a bright red 
color and foamy ; from the stomach, it is dark. 

If it is from the lungs, undress the patient and put 
him to bed. 

Calm and console him by saying that there is no 
danger for him, even if another hemorrhage should 
occur. 

Tell him to keep quiet and give him a glass of salt 
water to drink. 

If the bleeding is very profuse, encumbering the 
air-pipes, so that there is danger of suffocation, com- 
mand the patient to cough hard, though it may renew 
the bleeding. 

Draw the blood from his lungs by putting pack of 
70° F. on his abdomen, arms and calves of legs, re- 



122 NATURE CURE 

newed every twentj^ or thirty minutes. At the same 
time put his hands into hot water, as hot as he can 
stand. To his feet put a hot-water bag. 

If, by the patient's indications, you know about the 
place in the hmgs from which the blood comes, put a 
vapor compress on the same. Heat makes the blood 
coagulate quickly and thus the blood-vessels are 
closed. 

In order to prevent coughing, give the patient 
honey or the yolk of an egg with sugar stirred into it, 
or cool water with raspberry juice. 

The diet must be a fluid one of low temperature. 

A hemorrhage from the stomach requires methodic 
treatment. 

Put the patient to bed, and let him stop all work. 

The diet is of the greatest importance. It should 
consist only of fluids, as buttermilk, clabber, sweet 
milk, lemonade, almond milk, huckleberry wine or 
some acid red wine boiled with sugar. By the con- 
tracting quality of these drinks we can often prevent 
a recurrence of the hemorrhage. 

After ten days the patient may eat some very well- 
cooked rice, oatmeal, barley, milk toast, apple sauce, 
and very soft green vegetables. All animal food 
should be avoided during the acute state. All food 
should be given in small portions and masticated 
until it forms a fluid in the mouth. 

Give the patient a sitz bath, 90° F., for twenty min- 
utes, three times a day. Between times give him 
stomach packs, 78° F., renewed every two hours, and 
calf packs, renewed every four hours. 



DISEASES TREATED 123 

If lie is constipated, give him once or twice a day 
an enema, 70° F., followed after evacuation by a re- 
maining enema. 

After the acute state is over, the treatment has to 
continue for some time, and the patient should con- 
tinue to live in a hygienic way in order to prevent a 
relapse and the formation of cancer. 

Hemorrhages from the ivomb are stopped by hot 
douches and internal (Tliure Brandt) massage, be- 
sides rest. Nothing hot should be eaten. 

HYSTERIA. 

Hysteria is an irritation of the nerves, mostly 
through mental influences. 

As all hysteric patients are more or less weak- 
minded, the physician can in many cases reach the 
best results by a spiritual influence as soon as he has 
gained the confidence of the patient. 

Give him, or her, every day a cool or cold sponge 
bath and general nerve massage. 

Hysterical contractions of the muscles are best 
cured by baths of 105° F., for ten minutes at the 
beginning, then increasing in length to forty-five 
minutes; then very gentle nerve massage. 

When a bad attack occurs, give the patient a cold 
sponge bath, with gentle rubbing, or a half bath. For 
bad pains in the back or abdomen, apply local vapor 
compresses. 

Much outdoor exercise and cheerful surroundings, 
cheerful books and practical training to use his will 
power, will help the patient to a prompter recovery. 



124 NATURE CURE 

.■«»• 

INFANTILE PAEALYSIS. 

This disease usually comes suddenly, and with 
children between their first and fourth years. 

Sudden high fever, pain in the head and limbs, 
with unconsciousness, are frequent symptoms. Later 
on, lameness of certain muscles follows, which is 
either temporary or lasting. If the latter, it can be 
prevented, in most cases, by a systematic course of 
Nature Cure treatment. 

Wash the patient with cold water from the feet 
upwards; then give him a spinal pack, 80° F., and 
abdominal and calf packs, 85° F., renewed every two 
or three hours. Besides these, give him three times a 
day a half bath of 80° F. or 85° F., followed by a 
back-pour and frequently a gentle kneading massage 
of the extremities. Try to prevent lameness by fre- 
quent careful gymnastic exercises or by passive 
motion of the limbs. 

Move the bowels by enemas of 70° F. 

After the worst state is over you may give the 
patient a spinal pack every two hours, and twice a 
day a half bath of 93° F. for five to eight minutes. 

Wlien the symptoms of lameness have begun to 
disappear you may allow the patient to walk about 
a little, decrease the packs, but continue the massage, 
gymnastics and baths. 

To prevent another attack, send the patient to a 
Nature Cure sanitarium as soon as he can get there 
without difficulty. 



DISEASES TREATED 125 

INFLAMMATION OF THE BEAIN. 

This disease may be caused by a hurt, an inflam- 
mation near the brain or a diseased brain. Its main 
symptoms are severe headaches, numbness, delirium 
and chills and fever. 

Put the patient to bed with his head rather high, 
on a soft horsehair pillow. 

In order to draw the blood away from the head 
give the patient in the morning, at noon and in the 
evening, daily, a half bath of 85°-90° F., for ten or 
fifteen minutes. Numbness in the head, stiffness in 
the neck or pain should not prevent these baths. If 
the pains are exceedingly great, substitute for the 
baths cold sponge baths. When the seriousness of 
the symptoms has decreased, give the patient, 
day and night, throat packs and trunk packs, re- 
newed every two hours, and calf packs, renewed 
every four hours. Should they dry sooner, renew 
them at once. At each removal wash the packed 
parts with cold water. After three or four days the 
packs can stay on during the night. 

By the intestines we can draw the blood from the 
brain by several cool, small enemas, followed after 
evacuation by cold remaining enemas. 

These treatments have to be strictly continued 
until the patient has regained consciousness, or until 
the gravest symptoms have passed. Then you may 
decrease the baths to two ; then one daily. Give the 
packs only twice a day and during the night. 

If the patient has a stiff neck, remove stiffness by 



126 NA.TVBE CURE 

a gentle massage. Keep a cold compress on his head 
until he has no more headache. 

The room must always be well ventilated, and the 
diet must be mild. 

Do not use an ice bag on the head or neck ; it in- 
creases the inflammation and the suppuration. 

INTESTINAL INDIGESTION. 
Follow the same treatment as for Diarrhoea. 

ITCHING. 

Itching appears often as a symptom of a disease, 
and disappears with the cure of the same. If it is of 
a nervous nature, give the patient long hot baths, or 
vapor baths followed by trunk and calf packs. You 
may also give him regular aii'-baths and sun-baths. 
Let his diet be very mild. 

LUMBAGO. 
Follow the treatment given for Neuralgia. 

LUNG TROUBLE. 
Follow the treatment given for Consumption. 

MASTITIS (Sore Breasts). 

In slight cases of mastitis wash the breasts from 
two to four times daily with cold water; bending 
over the basin, splash the water over the breasts; 



DISEASES TREATED 127 

then may follow a gentle circular rubbing of the 
same. 

In serious cases, accompanied by great pain, put 
every two or three hours a compress of 85° F. on the 
breasts and hold them up with a suitable bandage. 

Hot tub baths, rising from 95° to 110° F., for 
thirty to forty minutes ; a vapor bath, followed by a 
trunk bath, 90° F., or vapor compresses on the 
breasts, are healing factors, and in most cases pre- 
vent an operation. 

MEASLES. 

Measles is an acute infectious disease. 

In summer time the patient can be out-of-doors or 
in the garden all day long, except during the fever. 

The windows must be opened day and night; the 
room a little darkened, according to the sensitiveness 
of the patient's eyes. Keep the temperature of the 
room in winter 60° F. 

Both doctor and nurse should approach the 
patient only in white or light-colored clothes, as they 
attract less of the poison than the dark ones. They 
should be well shaken afterwards in the open air, to 
free them from the airy, gaseous, chemical poison. 
The nurse should gargle frequently with cold water, 
80° F., and draw some up her nostrils to keep re- 
sistive the mucous membrane of the nose and throat. 

Give the patient in the morning, at noon and at 
night a half bath, eight inches deep, of water, 10 
degrees lower in temperature than that of his body. 



128 NATURE CUBE 

These baths refresh the patient, ameliorate the 
catarrhal conditions, prevent their increase and 
make the skin able to put out the measly poison 
more profusely. After the fever has passed its 
height, two baths every day are sufficient. 

In order to draw the blood from the mucous mem- 
brane, and to produce a better excretion of the 
poisonous gases, give the patient a trunk pack every 
two hours, along with a throat pack; every four 
hours give a foot pack, each followed by a short 
cool wash of the packed parts. 

After the fever has almost or entirely gone, give 
the patient, according to his constitution, once or 
twice a day, a hot bath and a dry pack, followed by a 
tepid bath, 90° F., because the perspiration will 
bring out the poison so much more thoroughly than 
any other measure. Especially should this be done 
where the eruption of the measles is not profuse. 
The beneficial effects of these sweats is directly 
visible in the improved catarrhal conditions. 

To this general treatment we have to add a local 
one in order to prevent bad after-effects. To this 
end the patient ought to gargle frequently with tepid 
water; his mouth, nose and ears should be cleansed 
often with soft, clean, wet cloths or absorbent cotton. 

Diet as directed under "Fevek." 

Every morning give the patient a small tepid 
enema, even if he has had an evacuation, as it helps 
to lower the fever and to free the body from its 
poison. 

As the patient grows better he can take fewer 
treatments. 



DISEASES TREATED 129 

Measles treated in the above manner will never 
leave any bad effects or cause ' ' secondary diseases. ' ' 

MELANCHOLY. 

Give the patient every day a tub bath, 90° F., or a 
cold sponge bath ; once a week a three-quarter nerve 
pack, and once a week a sweat, or bed steam bath. 

Long and frequent leisure walks, sleeping with 
open windows, pleasant company, breathing exer- 
cises, a mild diet, enemas and general massage with 
special abdominal massage are of great benefit in 
this trouble. 

With a strong will-power the patient must banish 
all grief and sorrow and cultivate cheerful, pleasant 
thoughts. Diversion in the form of traveling, pic- 
nics, excursions, etc., with cheerful company, is of 
great moment. 

NERVOUS DYSPEPSIA. 

This disease is a nervous stomach trouble. 

Of the greatest importance is your influence upon 
the mental condition of the patient. As nervous dys- 
pepsia is easily and thoroughly cured by Nature Cure 
treatment, tell the patient that he does not suffer 
from an incurable disease of the stomach, but that 
this organ is quite able to digest any food. To prove 
this, and to relieve him of his fear, let him eat any- 
thing he wants, as a test. 

Insist upon thorough mastication of any food, and 



I 

130 NATURE CURE I 

let his meals be moderate in amount. Positively 
forbid the use of tobacco and alcoholic drinks. 

Do not allow him to perform any brain work and 
but little manual labor. 

To strengthen the body, give him every day a 
general massage, combined with a special organic 
massage of the stomach and abdomen. 

Give him every morning a cold sponge bath, after 
which he goes back to bed for ten or fifteen minutes. 

Give the patient alternately one evening a sitz 
bath, 90° F., twenty minutes' duration, and the next 
evening a tub bath, 90° F., for ten minutes. 

Abdominal and calf packs during the night, and in 
very bad cases twice during the day, with air-baths 
and barefoot walking, prove very beneficial. 

NERVOUS PEOSTRATION. 

Nervous prostration usually comes on by degrees, 
either from overwork, incessant grief, worriment, 
over-excitement, loss of sleep, excess of intercourse, 
anaemia, or the excessive use of alcohol and tobacco. 

Its symptoms are mental and bodily fatigue, fitful 
moods, restlessness, both when asleep and awake; 
fear, irritability, and very often a giving out of the 
digestive organs. 

Its prevention is easy if the patient is wise enough 
to stop its cause or causes in time. 

'When fully developed, the treatment is the same 
as that for neurasthenia. First of all remove the 
cause. If overworked, take a complete rest ; discard 
tobacco, alcoholic drinks, coffee and tea. 



DISEASES TREATED 131 

In the beginning take a general nerve massage 
and a nerve pack every day. Later on an occasional 
bed steam-bath, or dry pack instead of the nerve 
pack, followed by a general massage. 

Take two leisurely walks every day. Sleep with 
open windows. 

Masticate your food very thoroughly. 

Morning and evening take a long air-bath. 

Cultivate cheerfulness in thought and seek cheerful 
society. Avoid worriment of every kind. Practice 
deep breathing at all times. Do not wear any heavy 
underwear. 

NETTLE-RASH. 

Its causes may be scratching with the nails during 
diseases which cause an itching of the skin, as jaun- 
dice, diabetes, etc. Sometimes it is caused by certain 
things we eat, or by nervousness, etc. 

Take trunk and calf packs, renewed every two or 
three hours, followed twice a day by a bath of 90° F., 
the other times by a cool sponge bath. 

In chronic cases add an occasional vapor-bath. 

NEURALGIA. 

Sometimes its cause is found in a cold, in constipa- 
tion, anaemia, poor circulation, inlierited tendency 
for it, poisoning, brain diseases, direct hurting or 
wounding of a nerve, etc. Sometimes we cannot find 
a cause. If you find the cause, remove it by a 



132 VATVRE CUBE 

hygienic way of living and regular Nature Cure 
treatment. 

Apply heat either in the form of vapor compresses 
or vapor-baths, and hot baths from 95° F., increased 
to 108° or 110° F., thirty to sixty minutes long. 

Between times pack the painful parts in cool 
77° F. packs. 

If the patient does not like damp heat, treat him 
with dry heat — hot air-baths, hot sand-baths, wrap- 
ping painful parts in hot cotton, etc. 

Besides these, give the patient very gentle strok- 
ing massage of affected part or near it if it cannot be 
borne on painful place. By degrees increase depth 
of stroking massage and go to kneading massage, by 
which poisons and obstacles in circulation will be 
removed and pain decreased. 

NEURASTHENIA 
Is treated in the same way as nervous prostration. 

NEURITIS. 

Neuritis consists in most cases in inflammation of 
the sheath of the nerve. It may be caused externally 
through a fall, strain, contusion, etc. ; internally by 
an inflammation in the neighborhood of the nerve 
spreading to it. 

Apply packs to ailing part, 60° F., renewed every 
two or three hours, and bathe it frequently in 80° F. 
water, besides a nerve pack every second day. For 
great pains give hot baths to painful parts, and rub 
the arms gently upwards twice a day. 



DISEASES TREATED 133 

NOSE BLEEDING. 

A slight bleeding does not need any treatment. If 
it is profuse, put cold compresses on the forehead 
and nose of the patient. Cold pours over the neck 
and chest are helpful. 

Further, let the patient draw up into his nose 
water mixed with lemon juice, or vinegar if lemon 
be not handy. 

With very profuse bleedings the patient must go 
to bed with head very high; keep quiet, and avoid 
coffee, tea and alcoholic drinks. 

If all this does not stop the bleeding, you have to 
ask a physician to apply Bellocq's tube. 

OBESITY (Stoutness). 

Many different medicines and treatments have 
been recommended for obesity, most of them more 
or less harmful. 

We would treat the patient as follows : 

People who have the habit of eating a great deal 
ought to decrease the amount. 

Avoid starchy food, sweet things, fat and fluids as 
much as possible. 

Do not drink anything at your meals, nor for half 
an hour before, nor two hours afterwards. In order 
not to create an artificial thirst, refrain from much 
salt and much spices. 

Eat much fruit, green vegetables and nuts. 

Take once or twice a week a mild vapor-bath or 
sweat, followed by a tub bath of 90° F., five or ten 



134 IVATURE CURE 

minutes. On days between take a cold sponge bath 
in the morning. 

Twice or three times a day take physical culture 
exercises as described under "Physical Culture,"* 
ten to thirty minutes each, and two or three leisurely 
walks daily. 

If possible, have a deep massage daily. 

Take regularly the air-baths every morning and 
evening as long as possible, and once a week a sun- 
bath if you can, or a hot sand-bath. 

Practice breathing exercises regularly in the open 
air, as that is one of the main means for the improve- 
ment of the blood. 

OBJECT IN EYE, EAR, NOSE. 

If in the eye, take a little piece of tissue paper 
dipped in water, raise the eyelid under which the 
object is, and slur the tissue paper over the eyeball, 
thus washing the object away. 

Children often put beans, peas, etc., into their ears 
or nose. In such cases never use any instrument, 
as a hairpin, etc., as it only pushes the object further 
in, and may hurt delicate parts, as the drum, besides 
making it harder to remove the object. Take a 
syringe, and direct its stream aside of the object, and 
the returning stream will wash it out easily. 

*See Figures 3, 4, C, 11, to 16. 



DISEASES TREATED 135 



OPERATIONS. 



The health of mothers is the foundation of the 
health of nations. The alarming increase in female 
diseases needs arresting. And how can it be done? 
There has never been a time in which there was such 
a passion for cutting as now, and how many thou- 
sands and thousands of women are either killed or 
made nervous wrecks by it ! 

Fortunately in Nature Cure we have the means of 
curing almost all female troubles without an opera- 
tion. "We employ our hands instead of the knife by 
giving the patient Thure Brandt massage (internal). 
By this massage we produce a better circulation, 
decrease and remove cysts and swellings, loosen ad- 
hesions, replace the dislocated organs, contract a 
prolapsed vagina, bring morbid matter to absorp- 
tion, soften and render elastic hard, contracted 
parts, etc., etc. In short we, without a knife, create 
normal conditions and functions again. 

Why do not all gjTisecologists use it? you will ask. 
Because they have not learned it. They have ac- 
quired a passion for cutting, and may have thought it 
"greater" to perform a bloody operation, although 
I think there is more merit in making a sick organ 
well again than in simply cutting it out. 

The Thure Brandt massage is bloodless (and 
nearly always painless) surgery, orthopaedy, illus- 
trated here so well by Dr. Lorenz two years ago. 
He said: "Fifty years hence no surgical instru- 



136 NATURE CURE 

ment will any more be used, except the subcutaneous 
needle. ' ' 

Besides the Thure Brandt massage we apply com- 
presses, tampons, sitz baths, enemas, douches, packs, 
physical culture, according to the case. But as a pre- 
vention is still better than a cure, young girls and 
mothers ought to be taught how important the nurs- 
ing of a baby is, because if it is not fed properly it 
may get the rickets, by which very often the pelvis 
becomes crippled and the female organs dislocated, 
consequently abnormal conditions during pregnancy 
and childbirth. 

The cases in which an operation is inevitable are 
very few. Most can be avoided through hygienic 
living and Nature Cure treatment. The welfare of 
our nation demands that operations should be re- 
stricted to the few unavoidable ones, for never be- 
fore has there been a time when so many people died 
through operations than now. 

Instead of pessaries, curetting and cauterizing we 
bring the organ back to normal conditions by remov- 
ing the cause of the disease, the venous engorgement, 
by regulating the action of the bowels, by curing the 
cold feet, by massaging the womb, which produces in 
it a good circulation, and soon normal conditions in 
size, position, etc. 

Instead of searching for the cause of the frequent 
degeneration of the ovaries, cysts, there is generally 
a diet prescribed which will favor the disease. And 
afterwards they cut fresh young girls (who ought to 
live and enjoy life) in their most sensitive parts, cas- 



DISEASES TREATED 137 

trating and making nervous wrecks of them. Even 
insanity is often the outcome of it. Would any man 
allow himself to be castrated? 

What is done by medical physicians to prevent all 
these female troubles? Do they tell the mother not 
to squeeze her daughters, often mere children, into 
corsets, until the muscles of the back and the abdo- 
men have become too weak, and until the congestion 
in the abdominal organs and its consequences have 
become chronic through the atony (debility) of the 
abdominal muscles? 

The word "Doctor" means originally "Teacher," 
but how many physicians are the teachers of their 
patients ? Very few. 

PALPITATION OF THE HEART. 

Palpitation of the heart is not a disease in itself, 
but a symptom of a disease in anaemia, fatty degen- 
eration of the heart, inflammation of the heart and 
several other heart troubles, hysteria, nervousness, 
constipation, etc. 

Look up and treat the causes as directed, and with 
the removing of the cause the palpitation will cease. 

PERITONITIS. 

Peritonitis is an inflammation of the peritoneum, 
with these symptoms: Chills and fever, loss of 
appetite, vomiting, thirst, irregular bowel action, 
either constipated or diarrhoea and pain. Although 
peritonitis is mostly the outcome or caused by an- 



138 NATURE CURE 

other disease, it needs more urgent treatment than 
the disease causing it. 

Give the patient directly trunk packs, clianged 
every forty to sixty minutes. In case these should 
cause great pain in the abdomen, give him only chest 
packs. At the same time give him calf packs, re-, 
newed every three or four hours. 

As soon as the inflammation has decreased the 
packs are changed less f requentlj\ 

Besides these, give the patient, three times a day, 
morning, noon and evening, a sitz bath of 87° or 
90° F. Its duration depends upon the feeling of the 
patient. 

If the patient is too sick or has too much pain to 
take the sitz baths, substitute them by half baths, 90° 
F., or sponge baths. 

Twice a day give him an enema, and after the evac- 
uation a remaining enema to decrease the inflamma- 
tion. 

The diet ought to be a fluid one, consisting of 
almond milk, lemonade, brown soup and apple 
sauce. 

Encapsulated suppurations demand the same 
treatment and vapor compresses, besides careful 
massage in order to bring the pus to the surface and 
eruption (breaking out). 

After thus having averted the first danger, we 
begin to treat the cause of the peritonitis, stomach 
and bowel trouble, ovarian, womb, kidney, liver, 
spleen diseases, etc., as well as scarlet fever, diph- 
theria, measles, vaccination, rheumatism, etc. 



DISEASES TREATED 139 

PILES. 

Piles are caused by a local disturbance of the blood- 
vessels of the rectum. The blood accumulates, en- 
larges the blood-vessels and cannot flow off suffi- 
ciently. This can be caused by a sedentary life, con- 
stipation, diseased conditions in the neighborhood 
of the rectum, poor circulation, etc. 

Treatment is as follows : 

Moderation in eating and drinking. Do not drink 
except when real thirsty. 

Leisurely walks and physical culture exercises,* 
and "pick up pebbles," page 54. 

Do not sit on any upholstered seat, but on open 
(reed, cane) seats. 

Take every night an abdominal pack and calf 
packs. 

Mornings and evenings, water treading and a sitz 
bath of 90° F. or 80° F., forty to sixty minutes long, 
with hot water, 110° F., to the feet, followed by a 
walk of fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Against the constipation take enemas, followed by 
remaining enemas, given also two or three times 
more during the day. 

To prevent friction of several exterior piles, put 
cold wet absorbent cotton high up into the anus. 

For an attack of great pain give the patient a sitz 
bath of 95° F., and pour more and more hot water to 
it until it is 110° F. 

In case you have not a sitz bath, take a wash-tub, 
or even a large wash-bowl. 

*See Figures 3, 4, 5 and 16. 



140 NATURE CURE 

Let the diet be a mild one, excluding coffee, tea and 
alcoholic drinks, as well as tobacco. 

For a thorough cure, massage and regular gym- 
nastic exercises are necessary. 

Do not sit long on any upholstered seat, horse or 
bicycle. 

PLEURISY. 

Pleurisy is an inflammation of the pleura. It can 
appear independently or as the outcome of another 
disease. Slight cases cause no discomfort. More 
serious cases cause pain in the chest and a friction 
sound, heavy breathing, bluish lips, and the patient 
lies mostly on the well side. In most cases there is 
cough, and sometimes fever. Percussion shows 
which part is affected. 

Never use an ice bag with pleurisy, because it 
causes inflammation and suppuration. 

Never use iodine ; it irritates and inflames the skin, 
but does no good in any way. 

Do not consent to an operation, because it is not' 
necessary, but treat the patient as follows, and you 
will see great results. In dry pleurisy: 

Keep the patient in bed; ventilate the room all the 
time. 

Give the patient a mild diet. 

Keep his bowels open with enemas, and above all 
things keep his feet constantly warm. 

Give the patient every morning and every evening 
a half bath of 90° F., ten or twelve minutes, followed 
by a chest and back pour of 80° F. water. 



DISEASES TREATED 141 

During the day give the patient an 80° F. trunk 
pack and 77° F. calf packs, renewed every two hours. 

At night give him a lung pack, 77° F. and calf 
packs, 80° F., not renewed during the night, except- 
ing when the fever is high and the patient grows rest- 
less in them. 

If a bronchial catarrh is connected with it, let the 
patient gargle frequently during the day with water 
and a little lemon juice. 

The damp or moist pleurisy is treated the same if 
there is little secretion, but if there is much we re- 
duce it by a dry, moderate diet, page 41, and sweats 
or vapor-baths, as well as after the fever is gone, by 
massage. 

The purulent pleurisy is treated by vapor com- 
presses, four to six each ten minutes, morning, noon 
and night. The heat draws the pus to the surface, 
and in most cases it bursts through the skin of the 
chest. In very few cases an incision on the most ele- 
*vated part is necessary. 

If after the absorption of the secretion the chest is 
crippled, do frequent exercises of the arm (raising 
and circular) of affected side, besides physical cul- 
ture exercises.* 

Pleurisy treated in the above way is scarcely ever 
fatal, and if massage is used it leaves the body in a 
much better condition than any other treatment 
would do. 

•Set Fis'iiros 11 to 14. 



142 ^NATURE CURE 

PNEUMONIA. 

Pneumonia (catarrhal) is an inflammation of the 
pulmonary vesicles. This dreaded disease, by which 
thousands of lives are sacrificed every year, has lost 
most of its appalling aspect when treated by Nature 
Cure. 

It is treated in the same way as a bronchial 
catarrh, with the addition of sending the patient 
when cured for a month or two into the mountains 
or to a Nature Cure sanitarium to regain vigor. 

Pneumonia (croupy). This inflammation of the 
lungs is treated as follows : 

From 8 to 10 A. M., trunk and calf packs, followed 
by a cold wash of packed parts. 

From 10 to 10.30, rest. 

From 10.30 to 12.30, same packs, followed by a half 
bath (8 inches deep), 90° F., instead of a wash-off. 

A cold enema. 

From 1 to 3 P. M., same packs as first in the 
morning. 

One-half hour's rest. 

From 3.30 to 5.30 P. M., same packs. 

Rest till 6 P. M. 

At 6 P. M., a half bath, 90° F. 

Rest till 6.30 P. M. 

An enema at 6.30 P. M. 

Rest till 8 P. M. 

At 8 P. M., trunk and foot packs for the night. 
These packs need only be removed if patient grows 
restless in them ; otherwise they stay on till 6 A. M. 



DISEASES TREATED 143 

During the day the patient has to gargle fre- 
quently. 

After each evacuation give patient a remaining 
enema. 

Let the diet be a mild one. 

After the crisis is past, you may add a few mild 
vapor treatments, as foot steam bath, or a bed steam 
bath, or a dry pack (sweat). 

POISONINGS, SORES, WOUNDS. 

Why does a wild animal never die of blood poison- 
ing? Because it keeps its wounds clean by licking 
them, and because it goes to the nearest spring or 
brook and bathes its wounds in it at regular in- 
tervals. 

What is the best thing to do if one is bitten by a 
snake ? Suck the wound and spit out the poison. 

What does the natural healing power in our body 
do to conquer successfully blood poisoning, for in- 
stance, puerperal fever? It creates a profuse per- 
spiration, which throws the poison out of the body 
by the pores. 

In these few phrases we have the foundation of a 
natural treatment of wounds and poisoning. First 
of all, keep the wound clean; and secondly, prevent 
the absorption of harmful wound excretions by the 
lymphatics and blood vessels, as this is the cause of 
all blood poisoning. 

The nest thing is to bring to work a sucking power, 
which draws out the poison. That cannot always be 



144 -STATURE CURE 

the mouth, but in linen and cotton we have the means. 
It has been recognized as a fact by all advanced 
physicians that a wound which is continually covered 
with a wet compress cannot suck up harmful wound 
products. Any clean water will do, and the compress 
ought to be covered with a piece of flannel to prevent 
its too rapid evaporation, and to have it grow warm 
soon, as thus it draws the blood to the wound, which 
is necessary for a sufficient growing of tissue and for 
the quick excretion of the bad products of the wound. 

Even if there be some foreign matter in the water, 
it does not matter, as it will stick to the damp cotton 
or linen. (People who believe in the antiseptic by 
carbolic acid or corrosive sublimate cannot under- 
stand this. They will, though, believe after having 
tried it once). 

The compress ought to be thick enough to keep 
damp from four to six hours, after which time it is 
removed, and if necessary the wound and its sur- 
roundings washed with water of ordinary tempera- 
ture, and the compress renewed with well-washed or 
fresh material. 

As we cannot always be sure that the wound has 
not absorbed some infectious matter before this 
treatment began, it is necessary to do something else 
to prevent blood poisoning, because the blood poison- 
ing takes place only when the infectious matter has 
reached the heart, and thus gets into the arteries. 
On the way we must try to catch it. This is done 
first by a pack of damp linen or cotton being 
wrapped around that i^art of the body which lies be- 



DISEASES TREATED 145 

tween the wound and the heart, covering it well with 
flannel. Change it like the compress every four to 
six hours. 

If infectious matter was already absorbed there, it 
will show after several packs a rash, in the form of 
little pustules. 

The effect of these packs is quite a different one 
from that of the compress. This latter sucks the 
poison directly out of the wound, while the former 
enlarges the pores of the skin by its damp warmth 
and draws much blood to it, thus causing a great per- 
spiration and transpiration. In this way the poison- 
ous gases are carried off by direct perspiration, and 
the other poisonous matter in the form of pustules. 

Thus we bring about artificially the same process 
which the natural healing power of our body uses in 
acute skin diseases (scarlet fever, pox, exanthema, 
etc.). 

If fever indicates that the poison has already en- 
tered into the circulation, we must put packs beside 
the above on most parts of the body, thus having 
millions of pores helping us to draw out the poison. 

Never use ice on wounds, because it works against 
the circulation, and thus brings about mortification. 

PUERPERAL FEVER. 

Puerperal fever (childbirth fever). Put patient 
into a sitz bath of 90° F., with the feet in hotter 
water, for fifteen or twenty minutes, covered with a 
blanket in winter time. After this, put her to bed 

10 



146 NATURE CUKE 

with a hot-water bag to her feet, and a thick layer of 
wet absorbent cotton, 92° F., covered with flannel, at 
the vagina, renewed every hour or two, according to 
flow. Cold compress on the head, renewed every 
three minutes. 

Keep her bowels open with enemas. Give her cool 
drinks of fruit juices, buttermilk and almond milk. 

Keep the room well ventilated day and night at a 
temperature of 65° F. 

Repeat the sitz bath three times a day till the fever 
is gone. 

EASH. 

A rash is noticed either as a symptom of an or- 
ganic trouble, a feverish disease, or independently of 
either, from impure blood. In any case it is an en- 
deavor of the natural healing power in our body to 
expel poisonous matter, and we ought to assist it in 
this effort. 

Take daily a bed steam bath or a dry pack (sweat), 
followed by a tub bath of 90° F., five to eight min- 
utes, or by a cold si^onge bath. 

Fast a day or two, and avoid all medicine, coffee, 
tea, alcoholic drinks, I'ich food, fried food, tobacco, 
sweets, etc. 

Do not drink anything at your meals, and masti- 
cate all you eat loell and slowly. 

Take two long air-baths every day, and at least 
two leisurely walks or other out-of-door exercise 
daily with deep breathing. 



DISEASES TREATED 147 

Do not wear any close, heavy underwear, and dis- 
card a fur jacket or fur cloak. 

Sleep with open windows. Do water treading 
mornings and evenings, besides exercises as directed 
under "Physical Culture."* 

EHEUMATISM. 

There are different kinds of rheumatism, inflam- 
matory, acute and chronic rheumatism of the joints, 
and muscular rheumatism. Its causes are want of 
skin action, exposure, wrong diet, want of fresh air 
and exercise. 

Man is the only animal suffering from a diathesis 
of uric acid. How is this ? The greatest physicians 
of our time attribute it to a wrong diet, especially a 
meat diet. The proof of this they find in the urine, 
because when a man lives on a vegetarian diet there 
is no uric acid in his urine, or only slight traces, 
while when he lives on a meat diet there is found a 
daily amount of two grammes and more of uric acid 
in it. A person who has to cleanse his body daily of 
two grammes of uric acid is continually in danger of 
its precipitating and causing rheumatism. There- 
fore, we advise as a prophylaxis (prevention) of 
rheumatism and gout to refrain from animal food as 
much as possible. 

The urine of carnivorous animals scarcely ever 
contains any uric acid, because their bodies are 
adapted to a meat diet, while the anatomy and physi- 
ology of a human body is adapted to a fruit, nut and 

♦See Figures 3, 4, 6, 11 to 16. 



148 NATURE CURE 

vegetable diet. Man cannot oxidize meat completely, 
therefore it is brought in his digestive organs to a 
state of incomplete digestion, namely uric acid. Dr. 
H. Lahmann says about this: "Man cannot be 
classed as carnivorous, and cannot eat flesh unpun- 
ished. ' ' 

Cereals and pulse produce also a great amount of 
uric acid in a human body. We may eat those things 
when well in a small quantity, but the main part of 
our diet ought to consist of fruits, nuts and green 
vegetables. 

The precipitation of uric acid in our body causes 
not only rheumatism, neuralgia and gout, but also 
rheumatic joints, organic heart trouble and apo- 
plexy. 

A thorough cure for the above-named ailments 
consists, therefore, first of all, in a change of diet. 
Then, in order to cure the affected body, take every 
day a partial or whole vapor-bath (according to 
constitution and ailment), followed by scientific mas- 
sage. 

Painful joints are packed after the massage, to 
soothe the pain and help the dissolving of the uric 
acid in those places. 

Weak iDersons take trunk and calf packs instead of 
vapor-baths, with an occasional bed steam bath. 

If constipated, take an enema every day, followed 
by a remaining enema after the evacuation. 

As soon as most pain is gone the patient, directed 
by a physician, should begin gymnastic exercises that 
will best benefit the ailing parts. 



DISEASES TREATED 149 

After the cure is complete the patient may eat 
meat once a day — white meat preferred. 

If you cannot have massage, exercise afflicted 
parts frequently, especially after the sweats, baths 
and pack. 

RICKETS. 

Rickets is the outcome of a serious disturbance in 
the nourishment of the baby, consequently dissKmia 
(an abnormal composition of the blood), and finally 
a want of lime in the bones, with an abnormal excre- 
tion of lime salts. 

It mostly appears in children during the years of 
teething. 

The child's condition is first noticed when it cannot 
walk at the usual age, and when its teething does 
not progress properly. The mother calls in a physi- 
cian, and he pronounces the trouble "Rickets." 

Children nursed artificially get it more frequently 
than those nursed by their mothers. The wrong diet 
is one of the main causes. 

The fresh air is very important, as housed-up chil- 
dren get this disease frequently, but scarcely ever 
does a child who leads an out-of-door life all the time. 

Uncleanliness is another cause. 

Sometimes the disease appears very gradually. 
The child is weakened by continued diarrhoea, cries 
much in the night and becomes feverish. In the 
morning you find it in a profuse, acid, bad-smelling 
perspiration. Motion and touch seem to hurt it. 



150 NATURE CURE 

After some time the bones of the child undergo a 
change, the joints enlarge so that people call them 
"double joints." The skull enlarges greatly, and 
almost in a square form, while the face seems to 
form a very small part of the head. 

The skull openings remain open till the second or 
third year and soft at their borders. 

The lower jaw is often deformed by the disease. 

The chest is marked with the so-called "Eicket 
Rosary," two rows of button-like projections at the 
points where the ribs join the rib cartilage. Some- 
times the sides of the chest are drawn in, thus form- 
ing the so-called "chicken breast." 

The pelvis often grows deformed, and proves often 
in later life a great obstacle to a normal childbirth. 

Treatment. — Nurse your child yourself. If impos- 
sible, do at least refrain from putting one-half or 
one-third of water into the cow's milk. 

Give the child fruit juices and vegetables, as di- 
rected under "Healthy Children." 

Keep the child in the open air most of the time, 
and let it sleep with open windows. 

Do not put tight fitting clothes nor heavy, closely 
woven underwear on it. 

Do not give it meat, wine, beer or cod-liver oil, 
candy, cakes or ice cream. 

RINGWORM. 

This is a contagious skin disease, mainly appear- 
ing in children and young boys, mostly on the head. 



DISEASES TREATED 151 

Cleanse the affected part well with pure soap and 
water. 

Then give the patient frequent head baths of forty 
to sixty minutes' duration, 80° F. 

In the night put a pack on affected part, followed 
by a gentle wash with absorbent cotton. 

Then, after three or four days of thus cleansing 
the head, pull out all loose, sick hairs and wash those 
places several times daily with water with lemon 
juice in it. 

Thus treated, it will be cured in six or eight weeks, 
especially if a hygienic way of living is observed at 
the same time. 

EOSEOLA. 
Eoseola is treated the same as measles, 

SCARLET FEVER. 

Scarlet fever is an acute disease, mostly of chil- 
dren, and contagious, with a typical eruption of the 
skin. Its cause is unknown. 

Treatment. — Put the patient to bed and keep him 
there till the scaling-off is over. At the end of this 
latter period he may pass a few hours out of bed 
every day, in summer time, even a little in the open 
air in a protected place. 

School should not be attended before the eighth 
week is past ; first, in order not to interrupt his con- 
valescence, and secondly, to be able to do everything 
for the prevention of an inflammation of the kidneys. 



152 NATURE CUBE 

It is necessary to follow for quite a while a mild diet, 
as nothing so much favors the development of an in- 
flammation of the kidneys as the so-called ' * strength- 
ening diet," consisting of meat, beef tea, wine, eggs, 
etc. 

It is also of the greatest importance to make the 
patient gargle frequently with tepid water, and have 
his nostrils, mouth and ear passages often washed. 

In the beginning of the sickness, and after the 
fever is gone, give the patient every day a hot bath, 
105° F., for ten minutes, followed by a wash-off of 
80° F. These batlis prevent, sometimes, the scaling 
off of the patient's skin. 

Give packs and diet the same as directed under 
Measles. 

SCIATICA. 

Sciatica is an inflammation of the sciatic nerve, 
from the hip downwards, rarely involving the spinal 
cord. Its causes are very various : exposure to cold, 
and dampness, hurts, constipation, diseases of the 
womb, tumors, inflammations, operations, etc. 

On account of this, our first aim must be to remove 
the cause. 

The pain is mostly in the hip and along the back 
part of the upper leg, although it may extend to the 
toes. As a rule the pain is constant, with severe 
attacks at intervals. In chronic cases, atrophy of the 
muscles and partial lameness may result. 

At the time of a very painful attack apply vapor 
compresses, changed every ten minutes on painful 



DISEASEa TREATED 153 

points. These are followed by a wash of the affected 
parts, 80° F. 

If the patient can sit, give him frequently a hot half 
bath, increasing from 95° F. to 110° F., or a foot 
steam, followed by a tub bath, 90° F, 

If the patient cannot sit, give him frequently a bed 
steam bath, with hot bottles for legs and hips, fol- 
lowed by a cool sponge bath. 

During the pauses between the painful attacks 
pack the hips of the patient in linen with 80° F. 
water. 

Especially beneficial are massage and gymnastic 
exercises. They improve the circulation, substitute 
the wanted exercise, stretch the contracted nerve and 
prevent atrophy of the muscles. 

After the sciatica is cured, the patient ought to 
harden himself systematically through cold sponge 
baths, cool 85° F. tub baths, sun-baths, sand-baths, 
air-baths, barefoot walking on damp, sunny lawns, 
and gymnastic exercises described under "Physical 
Culture."* 

SCROFULA. 

Scrofula is a blood disease in children. If it is not 
cured in childhood it grows later into consumption. 
Its causes are wrong diet, want of fresh air and un- 
cleanliness. Its symptoms are enlargement and in- 
flammation of the bones and joints, especially of the 
lymphatic vessels, skin diseases, catarrh of eyes and 

•See Figures 3, 4, 11 to 16. 



154 NATURE CURE 

bronchials. The patient looks pale, puffed up, witb 
enlarged liead and abdomen. 

Give the child a diet consisting mainly of fruits, 
nuts and green vegetables. No medicine or cod- 
liver oil. 

Daily massage and physical culture to improve the 
change of matter. 

Further, give him daily a tub bath of 85° F. or 
90° F., ten or fifteen minutes, preceded twice a week 
by a steam bath or a dry pack (sweat). 

On the swollen glands put packs of 75° F., renewed 
every three hours during the day. 

Scrofulous eyes are washed six or eight times 
daily with absorbent cotton dipped into 75° F. water. 

Between times, put day and night, every three 
hours, compresses of 75° F. on the eyes. 

By hypertrophy and suppuration of the glands an 
operation can be avoided by applying twice daily 
four to six vapor compresses, renewed every ten 
minutes. In many cases these soon bring the swell- 
ing down. In other cases suppuration sets in quickly 
(three to eight days) and bursts under the vapor 
compress. 

At the height of suppuration the patient often gets 
high fever and chills, which make the case look more 
dangerous than it is. The bursting of the glands 
greatly relieves the patient, and the further treat- 
ment of the glands consists only of packs. 

Sometimes the case is prolonged by part of the 
glands remaining hard. These have to be softened 
by vapor compresses as the first were. 



DISEASES TREATED 155 

Scalds on the head are washed eight to ten times 
daily, with absorbent cotton and a pack put on be- 
tween times. 

The rash on the face and body are washed in the 
same way, dried with cotton and powdered with rice 
l)owder. 

During the night put gloves on the child's hands 
to prevent its scratching. 

If convenient give him some sand-baths too. 



o' 



SELF-ABUSE. 

This is a very bad habit — nay, a carnal vice — 
consisting in an unnatural satisfying of the sexual 
desire, causing mental and physical weakness, degen- 
eration and often insanity. 

Its sjTuptoms are shyness, suUenness, inactivity. 
The person stays much alone, looks pale, grows thin 
in spite of a good appetite. 

Here we can, better than in most cases, apply pre- 
vention, which is better than a cure, by refraining 
from frequent intercourse during pregnancy, as this 
creates an abnormal sexual lust in the child ; by keep- 
ing the child away from bad companions, who might 
teach it this ri;inous habit. 

Further, let the child sleep alone; do not take it 
into 3^our bed either, for the touch of its little hand 
to bare parts of your warm, soft body might be the 
first inducement to the habit. 

In conversation and literature everything relating 
to the matter must be avoided. 



156 NATURE CURE 

If you raise it hygienical ly, it will probably never 
practice it. 

But if once you notice him practicing this bad 
habit, do everything to stop it. 

If old enough, talk to him seriously, and punish 
him if he continues, for here is a case where leniency 
is not love, but, on the contrary, will result in the 
total ruin of your child. There is no vice on the 
earth practiced so much as this, and causing so much 
ruin to humanity ; it makes physical and mental crip- 
ples of men, and often leads to insanity. 

Give the child a mild, spiceless diet, a light evening 
meal of soups (see chapter on "Hygienic Cooking,") 
cool baths, much out-of-door exercise, running, ball 
play, swimming, rowing, physical cultitre exercises, 
described under "Physical Culture,"* long walks, 
sleeping with open windows on a hard mattress, with 
not too heavy bed clothes. 

If the habit has fully developed into a disease, give 
him nothing but whole wheat bread and fruit to eat 
for a time. 

Bathe him twice a day in water of 75° F. or a sitz 
bath of the same temperature for twenty minutes. 

Watch him day and night. 

Put a trouser-nightgown on him at night, and go 
to his bed regularly two or three times during the 
night to uncover him to see where his hands are. 

Do the above faithfully, and you will save your 
child from ruin. 

*See Figures 3, 4, 5, 16. 



DISEASES TREATED 157 

Many a gii'l has come to me ruined by this dread- 
ful habit, and cursing her mother for not warning 
her. 

Do not allow your fate to be theirs, for you can 
and ought to prevent it. 

Our "Law and Order Societies," which are so 
zealously endeavoring to abolish houses of ill-repute, 
would get more nearly at the root of the evil if they 
introduced into our school system classes for young 
girls and mothers, to teach them the prevention of 
an abnormal sexual passion in their offspring. For, 
as it is, those houses are a necessary evil to protect 
decent women from "almost madmen." 

SLEEPLESSNESS. 

If it comes as a symptom of a disease, it will dis- 
appear when the latter is cured. 

If noise, pain or other circumstances interrupt 
your sleep, remove them, and you will sleep. 

But if it comes from worry, sorrow, etc., you ought 
to use all your will power to put all anxious thoughts 
out of your mind, and think only of pleasant things — 
Nature's beauty, rippling brooks — and you will then 
say "I will now sleep long and well." 

Avoid all rich, heavy food at your evening meal. 
Take a long air-bath and a cold sponge bath before 
retiring ; or put at the back of your neck, upon some 
rubber sheeting (to avoid wetting the pillow) a cold 
wet towel; or take an hour's leisurely walk before 
retiring. 



158 'XATVRE CURE 

If you can have it, take a good, gentle nerve mas- 
sage, which does much to induce sleep; take also 
abdominal and calf packs, or a long run before going 
to bed. 

Sleeplessness in children is generally caused by 
disturbances in their digestive organs. An enema 
at night, followed by a stomach and calf pack, does 
wonders. 

SMALLPOX. 

Smallpox is a contagious skin disease. 

There is no preventive for smallpox. Vaccination 
prevents neither smallpox nor death from it, which 
is proved by statistics of many great "observing 
physicians. ' ' 

The natural healing power in our bodies shows 
the physician the way by which the poison ought to 
be removed from the body. It pushes the poison- 
laden blood with feverish heat into the skin, swells 
it, and pushes out of its openings (pores) the poison 
of the system. We ought not to suppress, but help 
this action of the sick body in the following way: 

At the beginning of the disease it is very good 
to give the patient some hot baths, increasing from 
100° F. to 110°, or 112° F., but no packs. 

Later keep packs on the trunk and legs of the 
patient day and night, renewed every two hours, to 
draw the poison mostly to these parts and away 
from the face. 

These packs promote such a quick removing of the 
poison that it has no time to eat deeply into the 



DIHEAISES TREATED 159 

papillary tissue of the skin to cause scars, but re- 
mains on the surface, often not going to the face at 
all, but only to packed parts. 

If it goes to the face put on it a mask of six or 
eight layers of old, soft linen, with holes for eyes, 
mouth and nostrils. Wring it out in cool water and 
keep it damp all the time by sprinkling water on it. 
This mask will prevent the scars in the face better 
than anything can do, for it draws the poison into 
the damp linen instead of letting it destroy the papil- 
lary tissue of the skin. 

Gargle regularly with lemon juice and water ; and 
keep the bowels open. 

Diet as directed under "Fever." 

It is well to stop the packs when the scabs come 
off the pox, and take three or four times a day some 
absorbent cotton, dipped in cold water, and tip re- 
peatedly the pox with it. Then tip them with dry 
cotton, and put rice powder on them. 

Any secondary diseases are treated as directed 
under heading of the same. 

SORES. 
Look up "Poisoning." 

SORE THROAT. 

Gargle every half hour with lemon juice and water, 
or take mouth baths with same. 

Put a pack on neck, renewing it every three hours 
during the day; it can stay on all night if thick. If 



160 NATURE CURE 

the feet are cold, take a hot foot bath or a foot vapor- 
bath twice a day. 

Inhale vapor twice a day, too, for fifteen minutes, 
if it is a severe case, and take frequent mouth baths 
(page 196). 

SPRAINED ANKLE. 

Avoid all exercising of the foot, but treat it 
directly thus : Take a long strip of linen three or 
four inches wide, wring it out in cold water and 
wrap it around the ankle and middle of foot alter- 
nately in form of an 8. Then wrap over it in the 
same way a long strip of dry flannel. Put the leg 
in a horizontal position, and renew the pack every 
two or three hours during the day, but let it stay 
on all night. After removing the pack wash the 
ankle and foot with cold water, and if it is swollen 
rub it with the points of your middle fingers around 
the ankle bones in a circular way till the swelling 
is reduced. Then renew the pack.* 

After the greatest pain is over let the patient 
begin to walk a little, increase exercising it system- 
atically, even if it pains, for it prevents stiffening 
of the muscles and hastens the cure. 

STRICTURE OF THE BOWELS. 

A stricture may be caused by obstacles in the 
intestines in the form of great masses of faeces, gas, 
gall-stones, etc., or by outside pressure with a tumor, 
or after sores, through scars ; and it may be caused 
by a dislocation of the bowels themselves. 

*See Figure 18. 



DISEASES TREATED 161 

In most cases, there is much abdominal pain, dif- 
ficulty in urinating, the abdomen is much enlarged, 
the circulation is poor, patient feels very weak, 
hands and feet grow cold, and his eyes sink low in 
their sockets. 

First of all, if the stricture is caused by accumu- 
lation of faeces give the patient an enema of 95 "" F., 
in a lying or kneeling position. Let the water (one 
pint) run slowly, and after removing the syringe 
press his buttocks together to help him keep it pretty 
long, rubbing with the other hand at the same time 
his abdomen, left side, upwards and above the navel 
from left to right side, to bring the water up as high 
as possible. 

After the evacuation give him a remaining enema. 

Eepeat these enemas till several profuse evacua- 
tions have passed. 

Then give him a sitz bath of 90° F. at least twice 
a day, but if the pain continues give them hotter, up 
to 110° F., and between times abdominal packs or 
(if no inflammation) some vapor compresses. 

In severe cases the patient must be nourished by 
enemas of almond milk only, till all danger is 
averted. 

Afterwards, and in less serious cases, the diet 
should consist of milk, fruit, soups (see chapter on 
"Hygienic Cooking"), mush, lettuce and almond 
milk. 

Give enemas and abdominal massage twice a day 
till a complete cure is effected. 

If a dislocation of the womb is the cause, the 
organ must be brought back into normal place, 



lea NATURE CURE 

Tumors, as the cause, frequently demand an opera- 
tion. 

SYPHILIS. 

Only reluctantly I write about this most dreadful 
disease, but the thought that so many thousands are 
not only themselves miserable from it, but that it 
is the ruin of whole families for generations, de- 
cided me to do my best in advising a prevention and 
a cure. 

As I am not writing a text book, however, I will 
refrain from relating the history and different stages 
of the disease. 

Syphilis is either inherited or gotten by infection, 
by a kiss, intercourse, water closet, drinking from 
vessels of syphilitic people, not thoroughly cleansed 
medical instruments, vaccination, etc., etc. Anybody 
can get it, and more than once. 

The first symptoms of the infection appear only a 
week or two after exposure in the form of a hard 
knot or a sore. Then the lymphatic glands begin to 
swell. 

Then pass again some weeks without change, dur- 
ing which the poison enters the blood and then pro- 
duces sores on the skin and on the mucous mem- 
brane. 

Sometimes the poison affects after this the bones 
and the inner organs. 

At the second stage appear frequently fever and 
chills. 

When the sores appear in the mouth and nose they 



DISEASES TREATED 163 

grow very troublesome with itcliiug, burning, irrita- 
tion and pain. 

Sometimes the eyes, lungs, kidneys and spleen 
become affected, as well as the muscles and bones. 

When the nervous system becomes affected the 
patient grows from bad to worse; lameness, head- 
ache, neuralgia, sleeplessness, epilepsy, St. Vitus' 
dance, insanity, are its consequences. 

Formerly this dreadful disease was regarded as 
incurable, and for the suppression of its symptoms 
the physicians up to our time have mainly prescribed 
mercury, but this gives in almost all cases only a 
temporary relief, as there are always relapses ; but 
mercury is a very poisonous medicine which does 
the body more harm than if the patient did not take 
any medicine, for it is the cause of very alarming 
secondary diseases, especially quite serious nervous 
diseases, kidney trouble, lameness, insanity, etc. 
Proof of this statement is that the peasantry, who 
are often infected by soldiers returning from war, 
and who do not use mercury, have none of these 
dreadful diseases in later life. Most heavy metals 
are dangerous poisons for the human body. By 
lead, certain groups of muscles are irreparably 
lamed; zinc causes spinal disease, and mercury de- 
stroys certain parts of the nervous system. 

A prevention of this dreadful disease can only 
be aimed at successfully directly, or in a few hours 
after the infection, because the poison is still near 
the surface. 

First wash off well the infected parts. According 



164 NATURE CURE 

to our explanation about the treatment of poisoning, 
we then wrap around the infected part a cold, wet 
rag three to six-fold, and over that, with three-fold 
flannel a T-tie, explained on page 115. Renew it 
every four hours, or before it is dry, wash off, and 
put the pack on again. 

In the mornings and evenings of the next days 
take a sponge bath to stimulate skin action. 

Ladies take a lukewarm douche, then they put a 
tampon*, with 95° F. (or cold) water into the vagina, 
and take it out after four hours, take another luke- 
warm douche and renew the tamjDon. Repeat this 
proceeding for two days and two nights, after which 
time two tampons every day and during the night 
for three more days will have drawn out the poison. 
In this way we are pretty sure to prevent the dis- 
ease, as we have often seen during our practice. 

A thorough cure of the developed disease takes 
three years of hygienic living, besides a regular 
course of Nature Cure treatment of eight to ten 
weeks, as follows: 

Every second day take a vapor-bath, or if you 
cannot have that, a dry pack or sweat. Strong 
people take it every day for two weeks, then every 
second day. 

Besides this, take every night a trunk pack and 
calf packs, followed by a cold sponge bath in the 
morning. Do this for ten weeks. During this time 
take a mild, dry diet to create new blood. 

Take no meat, no sweets ; but plenty of fruits, nuts 

"See Figure 10. 



DISEASES TREATED 165 

aud green vegetables. Tobacco and alcoholic drinks 
must be avoided, and not more than half a pint of 
fluid taken every day. If this treatment is tiring 
or weakening the patient can stop it for a week and 
take it up again. This treatment will in the begin- 
ning make the sores increase, which is necessary, as 
it means an increased action of the natural healing 
power in the body expelling the poison. After a 
time the sores will decrease more and more, and 
finally disappear entirely. 

When the skin is normal again the patient should 
have a daily general massage of twenty to forty 
minutes, because it improves tlie change of matter, 
which is of the greatest importance in all diseases. 

In order to avoid a relapse the patient should 
after these ten weeks of regular every second day 
treatment, continue for several months longer the 
night packs, and one or two vapor-baths every week. 

For affections of the throat, gargle ten to twenty 
times daily with lemon juice and water, or with 
huckle])erry juice and take mouth baths; further, 
avoid all highly seasoned dishes and smoking. 

For "Vitus" make first eye compresses of 65° F., 
change every thirty minutes. 

AVhen the acute inflammation is over give the eyes 
twice daily a vapor-bath, followed by washes of 77° 
F., water. 

For the great nerve pains we apply quickly sooth- 
ing vapor compresses, packs of those nerves and 
massage. 

Syphilitic people ought not to marry until entirely 
cured. 



166 NATURE CURE 

TAPEWORM. 

Sometimes people have a tapeworm without know- 
ing it, but they find sometimes parts of one in their 
faeces, looking like pieces of tape. 

In other cases there are these symptoms : pressure 
and pain in the abdomen, increasing after the eating 
of onions, herring, pickles, etc. Sometimes vomit- 
ing, diarrhcea, constipation, headache, itching of the 
nose and vertigo. 

Its cause is : eating raw meat. 

Fast eight or ten hours, then eat only either a 
salted herring or cranberry sauce and the crushed 
seeds of the pumpkin for several meals ; take several 
enemas during that day, and watch your faeces for 
signs of the worm. For a complete cure the head 
of the tapeworm must come out. If it does not come 
by these enemas, take half a cup of sweet oil, fol- 
lowed soon by another enema. If this does not bring 
it, repeat the whole. It has never failed me after a 
second trying. 

TEETHING. 

The teething of a baby should take place without 
any discomfort to it. It is but natural that the gums 
should be hotter and redder than before teething; 
but when it grows feverish and an inflammation of 
the mouth appears, it shows that the child has not 
been nursed properly. 

During teething, wash the baby's mouth often with 



DISEASES TREATED 167 

a clean, soft rag and cold water, and give it a hard 
crust of bread to bite on. 

If the child has any fever or convulsions, give it 
every night an abdominal pack and calf packs, fol- 
lowed in the morning by a warm bath 90° F., pour- 
ing a pitcher of cool water on the upper part of its 
back before taking it out. 

The main thing is wholesome food and fresh air 
day and night. 

THRUSH. 

Thrush is a mouth disease, consisting of deposits 
on the mucous membrane of the mouth, representing 
an exuberant growth of fungus. 

Its most frequent cause is neglected cleanliness 
with babies' mouths. 

Mild cases do not cause much discomfort, but 
serious cases are connected with diarrhoea, abdom- 
inal pain, etc. As a prevention, keep your babies 
clean and wash their mouths after every meal with 
a soft, wet rag. Further, keep the nipples of their 
bottles clean, and wash your breast after every 
nursing. 

When thrush has appeared, wash the baby's mouth 
before and after every nursing with water mixed 
with a few drops of lemon juice. 

If connected with diarrhoea, give it treatment as 
directed under same. 

Bottles are most thoroughly cleaned with bread 
crumbs and cold water. 



168 NATURE CURE 

TYPHOID FEVER. 

Its first symptoms are generally loss of appetite, 
headache, restless sleep, vertigo, pains in back and 
legs, a tired feeling, swollen spleen, and coated 
tongue. 

Its cause is not always impure water, but often 
self poison, which attacks the intestines, in which it 
produces sores. 

There is scarcely any case of it without fever. 
This rises gradually the first week, keeps on its 
height the second, and pretty much so in the evenings 
of the third, while in the mornings of the third it 
gradually grows lower. After that it decreases as 
gradualy as it rose the first week. There are differ- 
ences from the above in slight cases. During the 
first week there appears generally a rash on the 
abdomen, chest and back. Constipation is generally 
from the first, sometimes changing to diarrhoea. The 
faeces are bright yellow ; when standing form a low, 
crumbly, yellow sediment with a dim watery part 
over it. 

Bronchial catarrh is a frequent symptom. 

Pulse is from 90 to 120 beats. 

Nervous affections, unconsciousness and delirium 
appear in almost all cases. 

Bleeding from the rectum and perforation make 
typhoid fever almost always fatal. 

All critical physicians are unanimous in their 
opinion that we have in water treatment the best 
results in typhoid fever, because it lowers the fever. 



DISEASES TREATED 169 

nearly always prevents stupor of the brain, im- 
proves the appetite, improves the catarrhal condi- 
tions so that scarcely ever dangerous secondary lung 
diseases appear, retention of urine is prevented, the 
skin becomes more able to transpire and to perspire 
the typhoid poisons, bed-sores and perforation are 
prevented. 

All this shows how manifold are the beneficial 
effects of a single healing factor of Nature Cure. 

Treatment. — During the first and second week give 
the patient, according to fever and constitution, 
from three to six half-baths daily (eight inches 
deep) of 90° F., ten minutes, followed by pouring- 
cold water over the chest and back of the patient. 
Dry him with mild rubbing and put him in bed again. 

Besides these give the patient during the first 
three weeks every day (regardless of diarrhcea or 
constipation) four one-half pint 70° F. enemas, 
which are followed, after the evacuation, by a cool 
remaining enema each time. 

Further, give the patient during the first three 
weeks of his sickness, trunk and calf packs to be 
changed every two hours (as described with measles) 
in the day time, but kept on during the night if the 
patient does not grow restless. 

If the patient falls asleep during one of these 
packs, do not waken him for its renewal. 

During menstruation the patient continues to take 
the enemas and packs, but instead of the baths we 
give her sponge baths, as this occurrence generally 
diminishes the dangerous symptoms. A moderate 



170 NATURE CURE 

use of these batlis is only necessary (also) during 
the menstruation if the fever has a dangerous height 
and secondary diseases have occurred. 

A weak heart and stupor are no counter signs for 
the above treatment. 

After the fever has decreased considerably, and 
even is entirely gone, we have to continue the above 
prescribed treatment, although only half of the 
packs, baths, etc., each day. 

Of the greatest importance are also the hygienic- 
dietetic influences : 

1. The room, always well ventilated, ought to be 
of a temperature of about 65° F. 

2. The bed must be smooth. No feather beds. 

3. If the patient be in a stupor, his mouth must 
be washed frequently with soft linen or absorbent 
cotton dipped in cold water. As he generally re- 
mains lying on his back, he must sometimes be 
changed to a side position. 

4. To prevent bed-sores keep day and night a 
basin of fresh, cold water under his bed, underneath 
where he lies. 

5. During the feverish period his diet must con- 
sist of fluids only, fruit juices, buttermilk, clabber, 
almond milk, cereal soups, etc. Later, milk toast, 
breadsticks, cooked fruits with little sugar and no 
seeds or peel. Even during the time of convales- 
cence we have to use great precaution in the patient's 
diet, especially to return to mushy and solid food by 
very sloiv degrees. 

6. In cases of great stupor, or accompanjnng 



DISEASES TREATED 171 

throat diseases, we have to feed the patient through 
the rectum by enemas of almond milk, which will 
nourish him satisfactorily. 

7. If during stupor the urine is not discharged 
we have to take it with the catheter. 

8. Should hemorrhage of the bowels take place 
we must keep the patient's body as quiet as possi- 
ble, stop baths and enemas, apply only every thirty 
to sixty minutes tepid abdominal 70° F. compresses, 
some remaining enemas 65° F., besides sponge baths. 

With the above treatment I have never lost a 
tjTahoid fever patient. 

UREMIA. 

Its cause is poisons of the organism entering the 
blood because the kidneys are not able to expel them. 

Slight cases begin with a headache, restlessness, 
oppression, sleepiness, fear, belching and temporary 
lameness. 

Serious cases begin with vertigo, bad headache, 
cold and numbness, besides pain in the limbs and in 
the back of the head. 

The patient passes little or no urine. He is gen- 
erally in a stupor from the beginning, sometimes 
delirous, and even in a frenzy. Hearing, sight and 
touch are temporarily affected. Vomiting and diar- 
rhoea are frequent. 

His temperature may sink below normal, but in 
very serious cases it rises often very high. 

Uremia sometimes lasts only a few days, but in 



1'72 NATURE CURE 

other cases it lasts weeks, months and even years. 
Most cases are curable by Nature Cure. 

Treatment. — First of all a diet to reduce the form- 
ation of urea in the body; oatmeal-soup, fruit juices, 
buttermilk and bonnj'clabber. 

Secondly, stimulate the discharge of urine — give 
patient asparagms, parsley, watermelon (or tea of 
its seeds) and tea of juniper berries. Further, give 
the patient a kidney pack renewed every two hours, 
and twice a day a sitz bath of 95° F., and pour more 
and more boiling water into it until it reaches 110° 
to 113° F. Leave him in it an hour. 

For constipation give patient enemas. 

Frequent cold sponge baths, and every second day 
a bed steam-bath or foot steam, help much to expel 
the poison. 

Rubbing and clapping of the kidneys help much to 
restore their normal functions. 

VACCINATION. 

Vaccination is a voluntary infectious disease 
caused by the physician's injection of pox poison 
into the human body, to make it, as they say, immune 
against smallpox. 

It is hard to believe, however, that an artificially 
poisoned body should be better able to resist an 
epidemic than a quite or comparatively healthy one. 

Further, no physician can prove to you that, nor 
how a human body grows immune against smallpox 
by poisoning it. The statistics they bring for it can- 
not be proved. 



DISEASES TREATED 173 

Many a very serious disease, as syphilis, scrofula 
and tuberculosis, has been inoculated into a formerly 
healthy body by it, and many deaths are caused by 
it, besides thousands being crippled and maimed for 
lifetime. 

At the place of vaccination appears generally on 
the fourth day redness with a little knot in its mid- 
dle, changing soon into a little pustula, in which 
there is pus, which later forms a scab, which falls oflf, 
leaving frequently a scar. 

Often vaccination is accompanied by a high fever, 
convulsions, restless sleep, swelling of the arm and 
the lymphatics. 

Many secondary diseases are caused by it. One 
of the most frequent is the very dangerous and fatal 
erysipelas. 

Frequently vaccination causes inflammation of the 
nerves of the arm and total lasting lameness, 
although its bad effects often only appear slowly and 
after several years. 

Many of these secondary diseases cause death. 

Although quite a number of children seem to go 
through vaccination apparently unliarmed, it ought 
to be abolished on account of the great harm it does 
in thousands and thousands of cases. 

VOMITING. 

Vomiting is not a disease in itself, but a symptom 
of many diseases, as: 

Enlargement of the stomach. 



174 NATURE CURE 

Sores in stomach, 
Catarrh of stomach, 
Cancer of stomach, 
Migraine, 
Hysteria, 
Cholera infantum, 
Asiatic cholera. 
Uremia, 
Peritonitis, 

Stricture of the bowels. 
Liver trouble, etc. 
Look for treatment of these diseases. 

WARTS. 

Hold them every Lour a little while in cold water, 
and cover them with a pack during the night, or put 
onion juice on them, or freeze them till white, pro- 
tecting the surroundings. 

WATERBRASH. 

Waterbrash (heartburn) is a symptom of a 
catarrh of the stomach. Look there for treatment. 

WHOOPING-COUGH. 

Whooping-cough is a disease of the bronchials. 

Children from the seventh month to their seventh 
year are mostly affected by it. 

It begins with slight changeable fever, loss of 
appetite and of cheerfulness, sleepiness, cough and 
sensitiveness to light. 



DISEASES TREATED 176 

Later on the cough grows worse, preceded by a 
whistling, gappy breathing. Heavy attacks of cough- 
ing last sometimes for ten or fifteen minutes and 
expel a tenacious mucus. 

While coughing hard the child is a picture of 
misery, with a red or purple face, protruding eyes, 
as if suffocating. These attacks come more fre- 
quently during the night than in daytime, but be- 
tween times the child is generally happy and bright. 

After four to six weeks comes the more serious 
period. Although the attacks are rarer and not so 
long now, this is the period where the nursing of the 
child is of the greatest imjDortance in order to pre- 
vent serious secondary diseases. 

Separation as a prevention is often impossible 
and without the wanted effect. Therefore, give the 
well children every morning a cold sponge bath, and 
every evening a tub bath of 90° F. Let them gargle 
frequently during the day with lemon juice and 
water. Give them plenty of outdoor exercise and 
trunk and calf packs during the night. Also once or 
twice a week a vapor-bath or sweat. 

We do not pretend that this will prevent whooping- 
cough in all cases, but it will certainly, if it should 
come, make it shorter and the coughing spells easier. 

During the disease give the patient daily some 
vapor application ; little children, foot steam ; larger, 
not resisting children, a bed steam-bath. Do not give 
the latter to resisting children, as even the resist- 
ance will cause a coughing spell. Every sweat or 
vapor-bath ought to be followed by a tub bath of 
85° or 90° F., ten to fifteen minutes. 



176 NATURE CURE 

During the night put patient into a trunk and calf 
packs, removed in the morning, and followed by a 
cold sponge bath or a tub bath, 90° F. 

Let the child gargle frequently with water mixed 
with a little lemon juice. Do not say of a four or 
six-year-old child: "It cannot do it," but teach it. 
Children of two years can learn it. 

Keep its bowels open with enemas, each evacua- 
tion followed by a remaining enema. 

The diet must be mild. No meat, fish, eggs, wine 
or beer. 

Take the yolk of an egg, beat it well, put in a table- 
spoonful of sugar and stir it into a hot lemonade. 
Give this warm, not hot, to the patient. 

Fresh air is more needed by the patient than food ; 
therefore he ought to sleep with wide-open windows, 
and take daily outdoor exercise; in summer let him 
remain all day outdoors. 

Sun-baths and walking barefoot in summer make 
the whooping-cough of very short duration. 

Whooping-cough treated thus with Nature's own 
healing factors is generally cured in four weeks, 
while with medical treatment it lasts often eighteen 
or twenty weeks. 

WORMS. 

Worms get into the system by what we eat, espe- 
cially by meat. 

Constipation alternately with diarrhoea, colic, flat- 
ulence, indigestion, itching in the nose, vomiting, a 



DISEASES TREATED 177 

pale complexion with dark rings around the eyes, 
and restless sleep are general symptoms of worms. 

To find out if a child has worms, let it drink some 
acid juice (lemon, cider, etc.), which drives out some 
of the worms. 

Then give it for some time no meat, fish, etc., but 
only whole wheat bread, or graham bread, fruit, car- 
rots, turnips and water. 

Besides this give it every night an abdominal pack, 
and two enemas every day. 

An occasional sweat and daily abdominal mas- 
sage are very good. 

WOUNDS. 
Look up "Poisoning." 

YELLOW JAUNDICE. 

This disease is caused by a mechanical obstacle 
preventing the flow of the bile from the biliary pas- 
sages. Such an obstacle can be a diseased liver, or 
the biliary passages may be diseased themselves, 
or neighboring organs form an obstacle in time of 
sickness of such organs, as in stomach trouble, 
catarrh of the bowels, kidney trouble, womb trouble, 
etc. 

The bile enters the blood, which causes the yellow 
discoloration of the skin, first appearing in the white 
of the eyes. 

Later on the skin begins to itch, the urine grows 
greenish yellow or even reddish-brown. The faeces 



178 NATURE CURE 

are ash gray and very greasy, the tongue is coated, 
a bitter taste in the mouth, and the abdomen en- 
larged. 

The liver is swollen, hard and painful to touch. 

Sometimes it is accompanied by fever, delirium, 
headache and pain in the muscles. 

The first improvement is shown in the faeces grow- 
ing yellow, green or even brown again. 

Treatment. — The diet has to be a very mild one — 
oatmeal, rice, barley, soft-boiled eggs, toast, fruit, 
lettuce, vegetables, lemonade, buttermilk, clabber 
and almond milk. Meat and all rich foods have to be 
avoided. 

Give the patient daily two or three enemas of 70° 
F., and after the evacuation a remaining enema of a 
few spoonfuls of cold water. 

The itching will be lessened and often it will 
entirely disappear by sponge baths of 72° F. 

Further, give the patient two to four sitz baths 
daily of 90° F., half an hour each. These improve 
the action of the bowels, the secretion of bile, the 
appetite, lessen the headache and sleeplessness, and 
thus free the blood quickly from the bile, preventing 
an overloading of bile in the blood. 

If there is a sharp pain in the liver give the patient 
a hot (110° F.) sitz bath, thirty minutes, and an 
hour before every meal a trunk pack, leaving it on 
till an hour after the meal. 

Strong patients who have not a weak heart may 
take also an occasional vapor-bath. 



DISEASES TREATED 179 

Massage and physical culture exercises* and "pick 
up pebbles," page 54, greatly hasten the recovery. 
So do air-baths and water treading. 

*See Figures 3, 4, 5, 16. 



ERRATA 



Page 106. — Omit reference to Fig. 21 in foot note. 



Pages IfiO and 185. — Omit reference to Fig. 18 in 
foot note. 



Page 189.— For Fig. 26 read Fig. 25, and for Fig. 
25 read 26. 

Page 191.— For Fig. 21 read Fig. 17. 

A PACK consists of a wet part close to the body, 
and a larger dry part covering the wet. In 
Europe, where Nature Cure is spread every- 
where, you can buy special material for packs — raw 
silk or coarse linen for the wet part, and thick flannel 
for the dry part. 

The main purpose of a pack is to make the skin 
act and to draw the blood from other congested or 
inflamed parts. As soon as it grows warm the heat 
of the body produces a warm, agreeable moisture. 
This opens the pores, to which it draws at the same 
time the blood, and the impurities are pushed out 
into the damp cloth. As all diseases are caused more 
or less by an accumulation of poisons in the system, 
the main aim of Nature Cure is to take the poison 
out instead of increasing it with drugs, and for this 
purpose we give the packs ; for if the skin acts well 
in the pack a great amount of poison comes out of 
millions of pores. 

The skin is a very important organ, and on its 

•See Figures 17 to 28. 

181 



PART III. 
TREATMENTS EXPLAINED. 



PACKS.* 

A PACK consists of a wet part close to the body, 
and a larger dry part covering the wet. In 
Europe, where Nature Cure is spread every- 
where, you can buy special material for packs — raw 
silk or coarse linen for the wet part, and thick flannel 
for the dry part. 

The main purpose of a pack is to make the skin 
act and to draw the blood from other congested or 
inflamed parts. As soon as it grows warm the heat 
of the body produces a warm, agreeable moisture. 
This opens the pores, to which it draws at the same 
time the blood, and the impurities are pushed out 
into the damp cloth. As all diseases are caused more 
or less by an accumulation of poisons in the system, 
the main aim of Nature Cure is to take the poison 
out instead of increasing it with drugs, and for this 
purpose we give the packs ; for if the skin acts well 
in the pack a great amount of poison comes out of 
millions of pores. 

The skin is a very important organ, and on its 

*Se6 Figures 17 to 28. 

181 



182 NATURE CUBE 

action depends, in most diseases, the life and health 
of the patient. On account of this, whenever you 
or any of your dear ones feel sick in any way, do 
not wait for a disease to become pronounced, but 
give him directly a trunk pack and calf packs, which 
often prevent a serious disease from establishing 
itself, or make it at least less serious. In case the 
patient feels cold, however, let the packs be preceded 
by either a hot bath or by a short vapor application 
to the feet or to the whole body, for no cold water 
application should ever be given to a cold body. 

Besides making the skin act and thus purifying 
the blood from its poisons the packs strengthen and 
soothe the nervous system. I have had many cases 
of very serious nervous disturbances where a single 
partial nerve pack soothed a very hysterical patient 
like a charm, and the patients often say they feel 
"newborn" after it. 

1. The dry part of a pack must always be larger 
than the wet part, so that no cold air can reach the 
latter. 

2. After every pack the packed part of the body 
should be washed with cool or cold water, or a bath 
of 90° F. given to the patient. 

3. If you have never had a pack nor given one to 
anybody, try one yourself before giving one to any- 
one else; try it dry on the dressed patient in order 
to see if you can do it right. 

4. Have everything ready before the patient un- 
dresses. 



TREATMENTS EXPLAINED 183 

5. If the body of the patient is warm, but his feet 
cold, give him first a hot foot bath or put directly a 
hot-water bag to his feet. 

6. The pack should be applied quickly and very 
tightly pinned or tucked in, but not so tight as to 
prevent comfortable breathing. 

7. With a whole pack the blanket should project 
beyond the sheet at least two or three inches at the 
neck and at the feet. If the sheet is longer turn it 
in. The size of the blanket for a grown person 
should be 2 X 2 yards. 

8. If the patient is a very stout person and the 
blanket is not large enough to tuck it in well, take 
two, or pin the one at the edges where it pulls apart. 

9. If after ten or fifteen minutes the feet do not 
grow warm in a pack put a hot-water bottle or heated 
brick to them. 

10. During a dry pack (or sweat) keep a cold 
compress on patient's head all the time he is in it, 
renewed every three minutes. 

11. In very high fever leave considerable water 
in the sheet, or take two sheets, but with a nerve 
pack wring it out very tight, especially the first time. 
If the patient this first time grows warm in it soon 
you may leave it a little wetter the next time, but 
if he has not grown comfortably warm after thirty 
minutes put hot bottles at his feet and near his legs, 
or (if he grows restless) take him out. 

12. With very nervous patients we begin always 
with a partial nerve pack. 



184 NATURE CURE 

13. The average time for a fever pack is half an 
hour; in very high fever, less. In diseases without 
fever one and one-half hours or longer if the patient 
feels comfortable in it. 

14. For very nervous patients, and patients who 
are not used to cold water, wring the pack out of 
water 90° or 95° F. in the beginning; later cooler 
by degrees. 

15. After you have put on the pack, cover the 
patient with bedclothes according to the season, but 
on a dry pack (sweat), or bed steam-bath, put three 
or four quilts or even a feather bed, well tucked in, 
so that the perspiration may start quickly. 

16. When in a dry pack the patient's upper lip 
grows moist, it is a sign that his body is perspiring. 

17. Children generally cry considerably if you put 
them in a whole pack, because they cannot stand it 
to have their arms in; wherefore it is advisable to 
give them only three-quarter packs or other partial 
packs. 

18. Many packs a person can put on himself, and 
with a little practice he grows quite proficient in it. 

Abdominal Pack. — Put on the bed a two or three- 
fold piece of thick, dry flannel, two to five feet long, 
according to stoutness of patient, and 16 to 20 inches 
wide. On it put coarse, smooth linen or raw silk just 
as long, but four inches narrower, wrung out tightly 
in cold water.* 

*See Figure 17. 



TREATMENTS EXPLAINED 185 

Let patient sit on the lower border of it, then lie 
down on it. Then wrap his abdomen tightly first 
in the wet parts and then in the dry flannel. Pin 
it very tightly with safety pins, especially at waist 
line of ladies, otherwise it would be loose there and 
feel chilly. Pull down patient's nightgown over it, 
and cover him with bedclothes according to the 
season. 

Ankle Pack. — Take a strip of linen four to six 
feet long, three inches broad; wring it out in cold 
water and put it rather tightly alternately around 
the ankle and under the middle of the foot in form 
of an 8. Then take a strip of flannel four inches 
wide and three or four feet long and wrap it repeat- 
edly over the wet part so that it covers the wet part 
one inch each side. Finally pin the end with a safety 
pin.* 

Arm Pack — Wrap rather tightly around the arm 
strips of wet linen, followed by dry strips of flannel 
well covering the wet parts. Fix a special strip of 
any material from top of shoulder around patient's- 
neck to keep the upper part of the pack from slip- 
ping down.t 

Calf Pack. — The calf of the leg is either done in 
the same way as the arm pack, or you may use for 
it the wet legs of white stockings covered with the 
dry legs of woolen ones.t 

*See Figure 18. 
tSee Figure 28. 
tSee Figure 18. 



186 NATURE CURE 

Chest Pack. (Lung Pack).— Take a piece of soft, 
smooth linen, for instance a piece of an old table- 
cloth, about two yards long and about nine inches 
wide ; wring it out in cold water ; put it with its mid- 
dle to the chest of the patient, and bring first one, 
then the other end underneath the arm, across the 
back over opposite shoulders, and join in front, over- 
lapping each other a little.* 

Then take a piece of thick (or double) flannel, or 
part of a blanket, of same length but three or four 
inches wider, pulling it pretty tightly, and pin it at 
throat, at corner ends in front, at crossings at front 
and back of each arm, in back of neck and at the 
lower crossing of the back. Smooth and draw tight 
this latter part before pinning it with a safety pin. 

Dry Pack (ok sweat). — The dry pack is generally 
more effective when preceded by a hot bath. There- 
fore prepare a hot tub bath, 108° to 110° F., and 
have a basin with cold water and a rag near the 
bath tub for a compress for the head of the patient. 

Then bring into a bedroom, near to the bathroom, 
many bed covers. Put on the mattress of the bed a 
thick pad or oilcloth covered with a blanket. 

Let patient undress entirely and wrap himself in 
a large, thick blanket. Lead him to the bathroom 
and put him in the bath. Put directly the cold com- 
press on his head and renew it frequently. If the 
patient is lame, rheumatic or gouty, rub affected 
parts very gently towards the heart if the patient 

*See Figures 22 and 23. 



TREATMENTS EXPLAINED 187 

is very nervous. But if he is not nervous rub deep 
while he is in the water. 

Let more hot water run if patient can stand it. 
Leave him in ten minutes, after which bring him 
slowly into a sitting position, taking off the com- 
press. Wrap him undried in the blanket and take him 
and the compress to bed. There put the compress 
directly on his forehead and wrap him up in the 
blanket, as explained under bed steam-bath; put 
many bed covers on him, well tucked in at the sides, 
and a hot-water bag to the feet, and renew the cold 
compress every two or three minutes. 

If the upper lip of the patient grows moist after 
some time, it is a sign that he is perspiring. Leave 
him in the pack one hour unless he feels restless or 
oppressed, when you must take him out directly. 

While he is in the pack prepare a 90° F. tub bath 
for him, in which you wash him off well after he 
comes out of the pack, and let him rest more or less 
according to the case. 

The blanket he sweats in should be washed before 
it is used again, unless he has not perspired at all. 

Little children are only wrapped up in the dry 
pack to underneath the arms, as they grow restless 
when they cannot have their arms out. 

This sweat can be given to the weakest, even a 
dying person. It has given back to life and health 
many an almost dead person. 

Eye Pack. — Take a tuft of absorbent cotton, dip 
it in cool 80° F. water, let the water run out until it 



188 NATURE CURE 

only drips, put it on the patient's closed eye, cover 
with dry flannel and a tie over it, pinned at the back 
of the head. 

Leave it on according to directions given in the 
case, and after its removal wash it with cool water 
or take an eye bath. This eye pack does good in any 
eye trouble. In highly inflamed eyes it should be 
renewed as soon as the heat is increasing again. 
Without inflammation it may stay on longer. 

Foot Pack. — Never put a foot pack on cold feet. 
If they are cold warm them first, either by rubbing 
them or with a hot foot bath. 

Take a pair of white cotton stockings which reach 
up to the patient's knees; wring them out in cold 
water and put them on patient 's feet and lower legs. 
Then put over them one or two pairs of dry, thick, 
woolen stockings which cover well the wet ones, and 
in winter put him to bed. In summer time he may sit 
or walk about in them, provided they stay warm. 

Kidney Pack — A kidney pack is the same as an 
abdominal pack, only three inches higher up, and an 
extra damp cloth in the back at the waist line. 

Leg Pack. — A leg pack is applied in the same way 
as an arm pack, as the picture shows.* 

Partial Nerve Pack I.— Put a thick blanket on 
the bed, the upper border turned down four inches. 
Put on the middle of the upper part of the blanket, 
lengthwise from turned-in line downwards, a wet 

•Bee Figure 18. 



TREATMENTS EXPLAINED 189 

linen double strip, 6 x 18 inches. Let patient lie 
with bare back on the wet linen so that his spine 
rests on its middle.* 

Then take in one of your hands one upper single 
corner of the blanket and draw it in a straight line 
with the middle front of patient's body. Put your 
other hand flat down on it with a gentle pressure 
underneath the chin of the patient, holding it there. 
The corner part in the other hand is drawn upwards 
over and behind the opposite shoulder of the patient 
and smoothly downwards. Then the lower part of 
that side of the blanket is wrapped tightly around 
the patient's body. Do the other side in the same 
way, and if the patient's feet are cold put a hot- 
water bag, or a heated brick, wrapped up, to his 
feet. Cover him with bedclothes and leave him in 
the bed according to directions given in the case. 

When the time is up wash his back with cold water 
and dry it lightly, quickly and without much friction. 

Partial Nerve Pack II. — This is the same as the 
preceding with the addition of another strip (same 
size) of linen put on the front of the body from the 
neck downwards.t 

Three-Quarter Nerve Pack. — This is the same as 
a whole nerve pack, only that the wet sheet covers 
only three-quarters of the body, from the feet to the 
armpits. $ 

*See Figure 26. 
tSee Figure 25. 
tSee Figure 27. 



190 NATURE CUBE 

In cold weather you may wrap the neck, arms and 
shoulders of the patient also in the blanket, while 
the wet sheet reaches only to the armpits. 

Spinal Pack.— This is the same as Partial Nerve 
Pack I. But if it is given to a restless patient attach 
the wet part, covered with thick flannel, with strips 
around the waist, neck and shoulders in summer ; in 
cooler weather by putting a vest of thick flannel 
underwear over it. 

Tampon. — The tampon, as the picture shows, con- 
sists of absorbent cotton rolled up tightly, about 
21/2 inches long, and, according to width of the pas- 
sage, as thick as a finger or thicker, with a clean 
thread around it knotted firmly. Dip it in cold water, 
squeeze it out, and insert it into the vagina (pas- 
sage), letting the ends of the thread hang out, to 
draw it out by.* 

It is, so to say, a pack of the vagina, and has a 
wonderfully curative effect in a number of female 
troubles, for instance, inflammations, catarrh of the 
womb, sores, infections, etc. If there are any sores 
or wounded places the tampon should be soaked in 
boiled and then cooled water mixed with lemon juice. 

In dislocations of the womb a tampon is the best 
means to hold it in place, but the patient cannot 
insert it herself for this purpose. 

It absorbs poisons, decomposed matter, cleanses 
and heals sores, cures leucorrhcea and inflammation 
besides preventing dangerous infections if promptly 
used. 

*See Figure 10. 



TREATMENTS EXPLAINED 191 

Menstruation is not to prevent its use. 

It is best inserted by making one end rather 
pointed. Part the lips with one hand and push the 
pointed end into the vagina till you feel it is high 
enough to stay with comfort. If you cannot make it 
stay, or if there is a dislocation of the womb, your 
physician should insert it, and he may be able to 
teach you how to do it yourself. 

Do not leave it in longer than twelve hours. 

Throat Pack — Take a large linen handkerchief, 
double it lengthwise six or eightfold, according to 
length of the neck, wring it out in cold water and 
wrap it rather tightly around the neck, beginning 
in front, so that the throat is covered twice by the 
overlapping of the ends.* 

Then put either a dry woolen stocking or a sleeve 
of thick woolen or cotton underwear around it, cover- 
ing well the wet part, and pin it with a safety pin. 
After removing it, wash the neck with cold water. 

Trunk Pack.— A trunk pack envelops the whole 
trunk of the body from the hip joints to the arm- 
pits ; otherwise it is the same as an abdominal pack.t 

Whole Nerve Pack. — Spread a thick, dry, large 
blanket on the bed. On it put a wet sheet and towel 
wrung out tightly in cool water 80°, or 90° F. to 
begin with. The upper end of the blanket is turned 
down four inches, so is the upper end of the sheet 
which touches at the double part of the blanket.^ 

*See Figure 19. 
tSea Figure 21. 
tSee Figure 24. 



192 NATURE CURE 

Put the undressed patient on it so that he sits on 
lower line of the towel. Wrap this tightly around 
his abdomen. Then wrap the sheet well around him 
(between legs one side part) ; then the blanket as 
described in "dry pack." Cover him well with bed 
coverings, and if the feet are cold put a hot-water 
bag to them. Leave him in it forty to sixty minutes. 
If he warms up quickly you may make the sheet 
wetter next time. If he does not grow warm in thirty 
minutes take him out, and do not repeat it until he 
is improved, or take the water first 90° F. 

"With very nervous patients it is always better to 
begin with the Partial Nerve Pack I, then II, further 
the three-quarter pack, and then the whole nerve 
pack. 

BATHS. 

Alternate Sitz Bath.— Put two sitz baths (or 
washtubs) beside each other, in one hot (105° F.) 
water, in the other cool, 50° to 60° F., but only so 
much water that it will not overflow when patient 
sits in it. Stout persons fill it up considerably, conse- 
quently need little water. In a foot-tub in front of 
sitz baths have 108° to 110° F. water. 

Put the patient alternately in the hot, then the cool 
tub, three times each, five minutes in the hot, one 
minute in the cold water. The foot tub goes from 
one to the other, as its water remains the same for 
the feet. Begin always with the hot and end always 
with the cool sitz bath. This is very successful in 
malarial fever. 







J. 1 




TREATMENTS EXPLAINED 193 

Sitz Bath. — A sitz bath, as well as trunk bath, is 
of the greatest help in the treatment of diseases, 
especially in female trouble, against inflammations, 
pain, menstruation disorders, contractions, etc. 
They cleanse, heal, bring impurities to absorption, 
prevent puerperal fever, cause contraction of the 
womb after childbirth, quicken childbirth (hot), and 
in many other cases are of such great help that their 
effect often surpasses our greatest expectations. 

A sitz bath has such a wonderful curative power 
in female trouble that we can almost regard it as a 
specific means for it. In painful menstruations, 
polypus, sores, catarrh of the womb, puerperal fever, 
inflammations of the vagina, the womb, ovaries, etc., 
it is unequaled in its healing, soothing and refresh- 
ing effects.* 

If you have not a regular sitz bath, take a large 
washtub, put it against the wall and in front of it 
a foot tub with hot (108° to 112° F.) water. In sitz 
bath put only as much water as is needed to cover 
the navel of the patient when she (or he) sits in it, 
the degree according to case. 

Put only as much water in it as is needed to fill it 
with the patient sitting down in it. Many people 
have a flood the first time because they put too much 
water in it ; a stout patient fills it up so much. 

After one bath has been taken, make a mark in 
the tub at the water line before dipping it out, so you 
will know exactly how much it takes for any future 
baths. 

*See Figure 31. 
18 



194 NATURE CURE 

Put before it a foot-tub or basin with hotter water 
for the feet, or a hot-water bag to rest the feet on. 

The temperature of the water and the length of 
time are according to the case and should be looked 
• up under the proper ailment. 

In cold weather spread a blanket over the patient, 
pinning it behind the back of tub with a safety pin. 

Alternate Foot Bath. — This is on the same order 
as the alternate sitz bath, with the only difference 
that no other part of the body but the feet are bathed. 

It is best taken on a chair before which either two 
buckets or foot tubs with hot and cool water stand, 
and the feet put alternately into them. 

They are very useful in gout, rheumatism in feet, 
bunions, sciatica, swollen feet, chilblains, weak feet 
(flat feet), especially when followed by massage. 
Begin with the hot water and end with the cold-. 

Bed Steam Bath.— Heat five earthen jars or bot- 
tles ; fill them with boiling water and keep them hot 
on the stove in a pan with hot water. Then put on a 
bed two thick blankets, on which you put a double 
strip of linen or raw silk wrung out in cold water, 
24 inches wide and long enough to go well around 
the trunk of the patient's body. 

After you have put the patient on it, wrap it well 
around the trunk of his body from hips to armpits. 
Then wrap cold, wet cloths also around the calves 
of his legs. Then wrap the uppermost blanket well 
around him, put the hot jars or bottles (wrapped in 



K « 




TREATMENTS EXPLAINED 195 

wet rags), one across his feet, one against each calf 
of leg, and one against each side of the trunk of his 
body. Instead of the hot bottles you can take hot 
ears of corn, boiled with the husks. Then wrap all 
into the lower blanket, especially tight around the 
neck. Put many bedclothes over him, and a pillow 
between the bedstead and the bottle at feet, all tucked 
in well, and a cold, wet cloth on his forehead, renewed 
every three minutes. Leave him in it one to two 
hours, but not longer than he feels comfortable in 
it. Then take him out and give him a warm 90° F. 
bath, five to eight minutes, or a cold sponge bath. 
This is a milder form of vapor-bath than the one in 
the cabinet. (See Figure 29.) 

Eye Bath. — Take an eye glass (sold in drug 
stores), fill it to the brim with 75° F. water, press 
the eye gently into it and bend the head back. Hold 
it there from three to five minutes, then do the same 
with the other eye. Repeat these eye baths four to 
six times a day. 

Face Bath. — Put cold water into a wash-basin, 
breathe deep and put your face into it and out for 
about a minute. For breathing intervals raise either 
the face out of the water for a moment or only the 
mouth above the surface of the water. It improves 
the complexion wonderfully. 

Head Bath.— Put a wash-bowl with 70° to 90° F. 
water on the floor. Before it put some pillows or a 
folded quilt to nearly the height of the basin. Then 



196 NATURE CURB 

lie on the quilt and put the back of your head into 
the water, turning it now and then a little sideways. 

Take it from eight to twelve minutes, according 
to feeling and case. 

It is very good for any skin diseases of the head, 
rheumatism, gout, ear and eye troubles, pain in eyes 
and dandruff. 

Half Bath — For certain ailments we prefer a 
half bath to a full tub bath. 

For a grown person put only eight inches of water 
(for children less) into the bathtub, so that when 
patient lies down it will not cover the heart. 

Put one of your arms on slanting head part of the 
tub, the hand with outspread fingers downwards; 
rest the patient's head on this arm, while with the 
other hand you gently and rhythmically wave the 
water over the chest of the patient for ten or twelve 
minutes. 

Then put the patient into a sitting position, and 
pour cooler or cold water, according to directions 
in the case, on the upper back of the patient. 

This bath has a wonderful effect on the nerves and 
heart, and is always used in pneumonia, typhoid 
fever and many other diseases with great success. 

Mouth Bath. — Mouth baths are used with great 
success for a sore throat, inflammation, catarrh, 
nervous affections, hoarseness, all diseases of the 
vocal chords and the ears. 

They refresh, cleanse, heal, dissolve and draw out 
impurities, soothe the pain, and cause a great excre- 
tion of mucus. 



TREATMENTS EXPLAINED 197 

They are best taken in a lying position. Take of 
cold water (if your teeth can stand it) a swallow in 
your mouth, close the lips, but separate the teeth so 
that the water flows back as much as possible ; hold 
it there till it grows warm and spit it out. 

Repeat. 

Do this for fifteen or twenty minutes at a time, 
and in serious troubles every hour in the day. If 
there are sores in the throat add a little lemon juice 
to the water. 

In eases where the nose is affected too, draw cold 
or cool water up the nostrils, but not with too much 
force, as that would cause a headache. 

Sand Bath. — As a sand bath consists of bathing 
or lying in hot sand, the seashore or bank of a river 
are, on a summer day, the most convenient places 
for it. It may also be taken in your own yard. 

Make a long hole in the hot sand, according to 
size of patient's body, slanting at head part, throw- 
ing the dug-out sand all around, but not on a heap, 
so that the sun heats it quickly. 

After the sand in the hole is well heated put the 
undressed patient into the hole and cover him up 
to his chin with the surrounding upper hot sand. 
Shade his eyes with a chair, an umbrella, or a news- 
paper, and leave him in it for an hour or longer if 
he feels comfortable and hot in it. Then take him 
out and wash him off, either in the near ocean, or 
river, or tub, according to place and conveniences. 

This bath has a wonderful effect in rheumatism, 



198 NATURE CURE 

gout, paralysis, double joints (rachitis), skin dis- 
eases and scrofula, especially so when followed by 
massage and gymnastics of the ailing parts. 

Spinal Patting. — Take hold of the middle of a 
laundry-folded towel, dip one end of it in cold water 
and squeeze a little out of it, and pat (or slap) gentlj^ 
up and down the spine of patient. Do not rub to dry 
the spine, but hold a dry towel against it for a few 
seconds. 

Sponge Bath. — For most people it is advisable to 
take a sponge bath in a warm room in winter time, 
and river baths in summer. 

Rub all parts of your body with cold or cool water, 
dry lightly, limbs upwards, and dress. 

Very delicate persons are not dried at all, but go 
back into the warm bed for ten minutes or so until 
quite dry. 

Chilly persons can begin with a dry rub of a towel, 
which they dampen every day a little more ; or begin 
with tepid water. 

Too much friction irritates and finally lames the 
nerves of the skin. 

Trunk Bath. — This bath is given in the same way 
as a sitz bath, only the effect is for some organs dif- 
ferent, as the water covers more of them than in a 
sitz bath.* 

If the legs of the patient are not long enough to be 
comfortable in a foot-tub before it, put them with 

•See Figure 21. 



TREATMENTS EXPLAINED 199 

a hot-water bag on a stool. If no trunk bathtub is 
available it can be taken in an ordinary bathtub; 
foot-tub raised, with heavy weight in it to keep it 
from floating. These baths are especially good for 
acute and chronic diseases of most organic troubles. 

Vapor - Bath. — If you have no vapor cabinet or 
frame do the following: Take an old chair with an 
open (cane, etc.) seat, put in the middle underneath 
it a little low stove, with a pretty deep pan of boiling 
water on it.* 

Take four layers of a double-sheeted newspaper, 
or other paper, of which you put five sheets on the 
seat, and let three hang down in front of the chair. 

Put the undressed patient on the chair, and pin 
three to four thick blankets or an old quilt around 
him up to his neck. 

Around his head, to cool his forehead, pin a nar- 
row folded towel of which the middle part is wrung 
out of cold water. 

Give him at the beginning and a few minutes later 
a glass of water to drink, if he likes it. 

Renew the head compress every three minutes. 

When the patient's upper lip grows damp, it is a 
sign that his body is perspiring. 

Leave him in it for fifteen to twenty-five minutes 
if he can stand it, longer if the vapor does not come 
freely from the water. 

When you take him out give him either a half bath 
of 90° F. for five or eight minutes, or a cold sponge 
bath. 

*See Figure 30. 



200 NATURE CUBE 

Weak persons have to rest after it. 

The vapor-bath must not be given to patients with 
very serious organic lung or heart trouble without 
the advice of a physician. Take a bed steam bath. 

The vapor-bath is the "Pearl of Nature Cure," 
because it, more than any other means of cure, re- 
moves the deadly poisons, the cause of all diseases, 
out of the system. This shows most evidently in 
cases of blood poisoning, for as soon as the skin acts 
freely, pushing out the poison by perspiration, the 
patient is saved. 

Enema. — Put water of temperature prescribed 
into a fountain syringe, hang it up on the wall, lie 
or kneel down, and after having let the air out of the 
tube of the syringe insert the greased point into the 
rectum. Then open the clasp to let the water flow. 
Close the clasp a moment if the water runs so freely 
as to cause pain, and open again to let flow more. 

Wlien enough is injected remain in the same posi- 
tion for fifteen or twenty minutes if possible before 
going to the toilet. 

Foot Steam. — Before a high chair put a foot-tub 
with boiling water. On top of the foot-tub put two 
or three narrow sticks to rest your feet upon. Wrap 
a blanket around yourself, the chair and foot-tub. 

When the vapor decreases let somebody pour more 
boiling water into it. 

Do this for thirty to sixty minutes, then take either 
a cold sponge bath or a tub bath of 90° F. 

For little children no sticks are needed on the 



TREATMENTS EXPLAINED 201 

tub, as their feet hang over it and will not touch 
the water. 

A foot steam is used in all cases where we want 
to draw the blood from other parts of the body 
downwards. 

Fomentation or Vapor Compress. — In a pot of 
boiling water put a towel folded to the size the com- 
press is to be. Take it out with a stick or large 
spoon, put it on a dry towel with which you wring 
it out in order not to burn your hands, put compress 
quickly between thick, dry flannels and place it on 
the patient. If very hot, and the patient is very 
sensitive to heat, put another thick layer of flannel 
underneath it. Cover with bedclothes and renew by 
another when cooling off. 

Take a double set of towels and flannels, so that 
the one is always ready before you take the other 
one off. 

These fomentations are very effective with sup- 
puration, for instance, in the lungs (with pleuritis) 
or in the lymphatic glands at the neck. They draw 
the pus to the surface, and in most cases it bursts 
through the skin under the vapor compress, thus 
making an operation unnecessary. 

Head Vapor. — Put on a table or chair a basin with 
boiling water, bend over it with a large towel or 
cloth over your head to keep the steam together. If 
there is no flame under the basin to keep the water 
boiling it has to be renewed if the vapor stops before 
the time is up. Length of time according to direc- 



202 NATURE CURE 

tions. After it wash off the face with cool or cold 
water and also gargle with cool water. 

This head vapor relieves neuralgic pains in the 
head very promptly. 

Pour or Gush — Take a large sprinkler without 
the spray part, or a large pitcher, fill it with cold or 
tepid water as prescribed, and pour it on the patient 
in an easy even stream. For: 

A back-pour on upper back. 

A chest-pour on upper chest and shoulders. 

A knee-pour on the knees alternately. 

A neck-pour on back of the neck. 

A head-pour on top of the head. 

An arm-pour on upper arms alternately. 

A stomach-pour on stomach. 

A liver-pour on the liver (right lower ribs). 

An abdominal-pour on abdomen around the 
navel — right side up, left side down. 

Potato Poultice — The very best poultice is a 
potato poultice, because it keeps the heat very long, 
and it is clean and easily handled. 

Fill two square white bags half full of peeled 
potatoes, and sew them up. Then put them into 
boiling water and cook till the potatoes are done. 
Then crush them well in one, and put the poultice 
on as hot as the patient can stand it. Then crush 
the other well, and put it on when the first is cooling, 
which goes back into the boiling water, and so on 
alternately, according to directions given in case. 



TREATMENTS EXPLAINED 203 

Remaining Enema — Fill a baby syringe full of 
cold water. To make sure it is not party filled with 
air, squeeze it three or four times, and, pressing it, 
hold point in the water, relax the pressure, hold it up 
and squeeze it again. There is no more air in it if, 
when squeezing, the water comes out directly.* 

Then insert it into the rectum, squeeze, hold a few 
seconds and draw out while squeezing; otherwise the 
water flows back into it. 

The water is absorbed by the rectum and moistens, 
refreshes and strengthens it and all its surround- 
ings. 

It is given after every movement of the bowels 
and also between times for chronic constipation, 
croup, in most acute diseases, local inflammations of 
abdominal parts, etc. 

Self Massage.^Self massage of the abdomen is 
performed by locking the hands, pressing them on 
the abdomen, and going around and around for ten 
minutes or more, left side down, right side up. 

Massage of the Head. — Put the points of all your 
fingers apart above forehead and rub them gently 
backwards over the scalp of the head. Ten minutes 
every morning and evening will make the hair grow 
wonderfully, if roots are not destroyed. 

Massage of the Stomach. — Put the three middle 
fingers of your right hand underneath your breast 
bone, and run them with as deep a pressure as you 

*See Figure 10. 



204 NATURE CURE 

can stand below the right ribs; then do the 
same with left hand on the left side, and so alter- 
nately for eight or ten minutes every morning and 
evening.* 

This massage, with very long masticating of your 
food, cures the most obstinate indigestion and 
catarrh of the stomach. 

Massage of the Throat. — Hold your four fingers 
together and thumb apart, put thus the hands alter- 
nately to your neck, rubbing downwards along the 
throat. Do not press on the windpipe nor run fingers 
and thumb together when you come down, for by it 
all benefit would be lost and harm done.t 

Inhaling Vapor.— Put a little gas stove or oil stove 
on the floor. On it put a tea kettle with its spout 
corked up and boiling water in it. Remove its lid 
and put on the opening a tube made of stiff paper 15 
to 18 inches high. Sit on a chair before it and inhale 
the vapor for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

To prevent the wind from blowing the vapor away, 
hang a large towel over your head and the back of a 
chair in front of you, on the other side of the stove. 

After the inhalation gargle with tepid water or 
with water and lemon juice. 

If your feet are cold, put them into a tub with hot 
water while you inhale the vapor. 

Inhaling vapor is very good for all kinds of throat 
trouble, deafness from catarrh, tonsillitis, hoarse- 
ness, sore throat, etc. 

*See Figure 2. 
tSee Figure 1. 



PART IV. 
HYGIENIC COOKING. 



Only a well-nourished body can be healthy and 
strong, and in order to be well fed we ought to know 
what and how to eat, and how to prepare it. 

Everyone knows that we need for the building up 
of the body certain quantities of albumen, fat, etc.; 
but too little attention is paid to the necessary 
minerals, and it is of the greatest imijortance for the 
body to have the proper amount of these as well. 

Why are so many sedentary people anaemic? Be- 
cause their diet consists mostly of meats, grains and 
the legumes, which are particularly poor in soda and 
lime. If to this diet a certain amount of vegetables 
and fruits were added, their blood and bones would 
grow healthier. For many it is sufficient to acquire 
a taste for vegetables, and even when they do have 
them they are in most cases unwholesome, being 
unhygienically prepared, so that they are robbed of 
most of their hygienic properties. In order to retain 
within the vegetables these properties they should 
never be washed in hot water, nor should the water 
in which they are cooked be poured off, for it con- 
tains in solution the strength-giving minerals of the 

205 



206 NATURE CURE 

vegetable. Therefore vegetables should be cooked in 
a very little water or steamed. 

Besides that, few people know how to eat. If most 
people ailing from stomach trouble would only mas- 
ticate their food every bite five times as long as they 
have been doing they would soon see a great change. 

Naehrsalz — Dr. Lahmann, of Germany, seeing the 
necessity of adding to certain vegetables the 
mineral salts they lack, discovered, after long and 
various experiments, a process by which to make a 
preparation from the mineral substances of plants, 
which he appropriately calls ' ' Naehrsalz, ' ' or nutri- 
tious extract. It is particularly useful in our diet, 
since we can with it make many of our dishes more 
wholesome and digestible. We add it to meats and 
to those vegetables which do not contain a sufficient 
amount of the necessary minerals. Naehrsalz not 
only aids digestion, but improves the flavor of the 
food. It is to be added to a dish only shortly before 
serving it, and for a dishful of vegetables, naehr- 
salz the size of a pea only is needed. 

Lahmann's Cocoa we have found to be the best 
and purest cocoa. It is made from the finest selected 
cocoa beans, is chemically free from grease and con- 
tains naehrsalz, which improves its flavor and makes 
it more easily digested. 

The naehrsalz, the cocoa, chocolate and the vege- 
table milk of Dr. Lahmann can be had at the store 
of B. Lust, 124 East Fifty-ninth street, New York 
City. 



HYOIENIC COOKING 207 

Mr. B. Lust is one of the first naturopaths in the 
United States, and editor of one of the best monthly 
health magazines, published in English and German. 

Konut we use in our kitchen for frying, shorten- 
ing, etc. It is a pure vegetable fat, and is more 
easily digested than any animal fat. Finley Acker 
Co., of Philadelphia, Pa., sell it. Ask for the fresh- 
est. 

Grape Juice is the pure juice of the grape, entirely 
free from alcohol and one of the most wholesome 
and nourishing beverages. We use it for our 
patients, since we never under any circumstances 
give alcoholic drinks. 

Lemon Spice is made thus : Grate off the yellow 
part of lemon peel, mix it up with a good deal of 
granulated sugar and put it in a glass jar. It keeps 
for years when tightly closed. More peel may be 
added at any time. It is to be used only in small 
quantities, as spices of all kinds make the blood 
impure. We therefore use very little even of salt. 

Breadsticks are especially to be recommended to 
give to a teething baby, in disorders of digestion, to 
people who "swallow their food;" they are always 
a great help when fresh bread is not available, and 
on picnics, camping, etc. They keep ever so long in 
a tin box. 

Gruenkom is rye harvested before growing 
mealy. It can be bought in most delicatessen stores 
of large cities. It is very wholesome, tasty and 
nourishing. 



208 NATURE CURE 

We have tried to explain German dishes as clearly 
as possible, and hope we have succeeded in doing so. 

DRY DIET. 

ScHROTH Cure. — The dry diet cure is also called 
"Schroth Cure," because Dr. Schroth invented it 
and made wonderful cures with it. 

It consists of a diet reduced in fluids and mainly 
nothing but cereals, toast and some vegetables. The 
purpose of the dry diet is to condense the fluids in 
the patient's body so that they can do better work. 
The organs get a rest, and the power of the body is 
reawakened and strengthened. 

In the absence of superfluous water the dormant 
poisons in our system dissolve and are expelled more 
readily by the natural channels, which is so evidently 
shown in the deep color (and often thick sediment) 
in the urine. 

A strictly severe dry diet can only be entered upon 
with a knowing person to advise you. But a moder- 
ately dry diet can be followed for a few weeks by a 
strong person without any harm. It consists of the 
following three scanty meals every day: 

1. Breakfast. — A cup of almond milk, oatmeal, 
toast. 

2. Dinner. — Eice, barley or oatmeal, vegetables, 
toast. 

3. Supper. — Fruit, toast, a cup of almond milk. 
Further, every day either a whole or three-fourth 

nerve pack for two to four hours, or for four days 



HYGIENIG COOKING 209 

in the week, and three days in the week a bed steam- 
bath. 

Much outdoor exercise and breathing exercises 
should be taken. 

Feel your pulse every day, morning and evening, 
and if it should go below 58, drink some unfermented 
grape juice, or fresh, pure water. 

Watch your urine, and when it grows to a darker 
color and shows a sediment it is a sign of an effectual 
cure. 

When you feel badly with it in any way, stop for 
a time and change to a greater variety in diet, but 
not suddenly to a banquet. 

Weak persons ought not to undertake it unad- 
vised. 

It is used with dropsical swellings, cysts, hydro- 
phobia, various organic troubles, etc. 

Daily general massage makes it more effective. 

MILD DIET. 

"Under a mild diet" we understand to be a diet 
free from alcoholic drinks, coffee, tea, meat, sweets, 
rich or highly seasoned food, cake, etc., consisting 
of cereals, milk, almond milk, apple sauce, light vege- 
tables and toast. 



u 



MENUS. 



BREAKFASTS. 



First Day: 

Fresh fruit. 
Health. 

Boiled eggs and lettuce. 
Breadsticks. 
MufSns. 
Honey. 

Any cereal coffee or Dr. Lah' 
manu's cocoa. 



Second Day: 
Cooked fruit. 
Wheat hearts with sugar and 

cream. 
Scrambled eggs and radishes. 
Toast. 
Honey. 
Same drinks as first day. 



Third Day: 
Fresh fruit. 

Grits with sugar and cream. 
Poached eggs and watercress. 
Corn bread and honey. 
The same drinks as fii-st day. 



Fourth Day: 
Cooked fruit. 
Health. 

Corn pancakes or breadsticks. 
Maple syrup. 
The same drinks. 



Fifth Day: 
Fresh fruit. 
Wheat hearts. 
Eggs on toast. 
Honey. 
The same drinks. 



Sixth Day: 
Cooked fruit. 
Cream of wheat. 
Corn muffins. 

Soft boiled eggs and lettuce. 
Honey. 
The same drinks. 



Seventh Day: 
Fresh fruit. 
Instantaneous tapioca. 
Breadsticks. 

Scrambled eggs and celery. 
Honey. 
The same drinks. 



HYGIENIC COOKlKa 



211 



DINNERS. 

JANUARY— FEBRUARY— MARCH. 



soup. 



January 1st: 

Fresh fruit. Barley 
Cauliflower, baked. 
Fried chicken. 
Red cabbage with apples 
Mashed potatoes. 
Celery salad. 
Pueckler ice cream. 
Bread and butter. 
Cranberry sauce — nuts. 

January 3d: 
Stewed fruit. 
Cabbage. 
Dried peas with fried onions 

(gravy). 
Mutton roast. 
Chestnuts. 

Baked sweet potatoes. 
Celery. 

Chocolate cream. 
Bread and butter. 



January 2d: 
Fresh fruit. 
Chestnuts. 
Green beans. 
Veal chops. 

Irish and sweet potatoes. 
Lettuce. 

Tapioca pudding. 
Breadsticks. 

January Jith: 
Fresh fruit. 
White beans. 

Spinach with hard-boiled eggs. 
Boiled fish. 
Potato dumplings with butter 

gravy. 
Lettuce. 

Bread and butter. 
Breadsticks. 
Nuts and raisins. 



January 5th: 

Stewed peaches. 
Corn. 

Green peas. 
Veal roast. 
Irish and sweet 

potatoes. 
Tomatoes, baked. 
Pecan pudding. 
Bread and butter. 



January 6th: 
Fresh fruit. 
Asparagus. 
Lettuce. 

Cold meat jelly. 
Potato salad. 
Celery. 

Apple pudding. 
Bread and butter. 
Nuts and raisins. 



January 7th: 
Cooked prunes. 
Vegetable soup. 
Chestnuts. 
Stewed onions. 
Smoked ox tongue. 
Potato pancakes. 
Mashed potatoes. 
Lemon cream. 
Breadsticks. 



These menus may be repeated unchanged during the three winter 
months, or varied according to circumstances and taste. 



212 



NATVBE CURE 



APRIL— MAY— JUNE. 



April 1st: 
Stewed fruit. 
Gruenkorn slices. 
Spinach with hard-boiled 
Chicken. 

Fried Irish potatoes. 
Sliced tomatoes. 
Chocolate pudding. 
Bread and butter. 
Nuts. 



April 2d: 
Strawberries. 
Green peas. 
Vegetarian ragout. 
Mutton chops. 
Artificial chestnuts. 
Lettuce. 
Rice pudding. 
Breadstieks. 
Nuts. 



April 3d: 

Prune dumplings. 

Carrots. 

Rice-dish. 

Veal roast. 

Mashed Irish potatoes. 

Baked sweet potatoes. 

Lettuce. 

Tutti-frutti. 

Breadstieks. 



April ith: 
Stewed fruit. 
Vegetable slices. 
Macaroni dish. 
Beef roast. 
Potato dumplings. 
Sweet potatoes. 
Celery salad. 
Charlotte russe. 
Bread and butter. 



April 5th: 
Strawberries. 
Pea soup. 
Cabbage, apples. 
Corn with okra. 
Onions. 
Boiled fish. 
Fried potatoes. 
Red flammery. 
Breadstieks. 



April 6th: 

Fresh fraits, nuts. 
Spinach with eggs. 
Chestnuts. 
Stewed chicken. 
Gruenkorn. 
Sweet potatoes. 
Irish potatoes. 
Bread and butter. 



April 7th: 
Cooked fruit. 
Dried peas with 

fried onions. 
Asparagus. 
Com dumplings. 
Irish potatoes. 
Celery. 

Orange cream. 
Bread and butter. 
Nuts. 

Repeat. 



HYOIENIG COOKING 



213 



JULY— AUGUST— SEPTEMBER. 



July 1st: 
Fresh fruit. 
Green beans. 
Rice with apples. 
Mutton roast. 
Mashed Irish potatoes. 
Bean salad. 
Lemon jelly. 
Breadsticks. 



July 2d: 

Stewed fruit and raisins. 

Cucumbers. 

Pea slices. 

Veal chops. 

Tomato dish. 

Potatoes. 

Vanilla pudding. 

Bread and butter. 



July 3d: 
Fresh fruit. 
Cabbage. 
Macaroni. 
Fried chicken. 
Potato pancakes. 
Lettvice. 

Chocolate pudding. 
Bread and butter. 



July .'ith: 
Stewed fruit. 
Bean soup. 
Egg plant. 
Mushrooms. 
Sauerkraut. 
Mutton chops. 
Mashed potatoes. 
Celery. 
Flammery. 
Bread and butter. 



July 5th: 
Fresh fruit. 
Vegetable ragout. 
Green beans. 
Tomatoes. 
Steak. 

Sour potatoes. 
Fruit compote. 
Breadsticks. 



July 6tJi: 
Fresh fruit. 
Rice dish. 
Pea slices. 
Cauliflower. 
Boiled fish. 
Potato dumplings. 
Almond pudding 

with fruit juice. 
Bread and butter. 



July 7th: 

Cherry dumplings. 
Noodles. 

Spinach with eggs. 
Mushrooms. 
Veal chops. 
Potato balls. 
Sliced tomatoes. 
Pueckler ice creara. 
Breadsticks. 

Repeat. 



214 



NATURE CURE 



OCTOBER— NOVEMBER— DECEMBER. 



October 1st: 
Fresh fruit. 
German kale. 
Sweet corn. 
Sliced tomatoes. 
Boiled fish. 
Mashed potatoes. 
Breadsticks. 
Nuts. 



October 2d: 

Apple dumplings. 

Rice soup with tomatoes. 

Spinach with sliced eggs. 

Stewed chestnuts. 

Potatoes with apples. 

Fried chicken. 

Celery. 

Tutti-frutti. 

Bread and butter. 



October 3d: 
Fresh fruit. 
Green peas. 
Turnip greens. 
Stewed tomatoes. 
Rabbit stew. 
Bread pudding. 
Bread and butter. 



October J/th: 
Apple sauce with canned peaches. 
Kohlrabi. 
Oyster plant. 

Sliced Irish potatoes, fried. 
Lettuce. 

Stewed chicken. 
Rice pudding. 
Breadsticks. 
Nuts and raisins. 



October Sth: 
Fresh fruit. 
Chestnuts. 
Green peas. 
Rice. 
Irish and sweet 

potatoes. 
Sliced tomatoes. 
Veal chops. 
Chocolate pudding. 
Bread and butter. 
Nuts. 



October 6th: 
Canned peaches. 
Spinach with eggs. 
Corn. 

Beet salad. 
Celery. 

Stewed chicken. 
Mashed potatoes. 
Rice pudding. 
Breadsticks. 



October 1th: 

Rhubarb compote. 
Green beans and com. 
Cabbage with apples. 

Turkey. 

Irish potatoes. 

Chocolate cream. 

Bread and butter. 

Nuts. 

Repeat. 



COOKING RECIPES. 



HOT SOUPS. 

In using yolks of eggs in soups on re must be taken tliat they do 
not harden in lumps in the soup. In order to avoid this, first beat 
them well and stir into them a few tablespoonfuls of the soup and 
beat together until thoroughly mixed and smooth; then pour this 
into the soup. 

VEGETABLE SOUP STOCK. 

One onion, 2 potatoes, I stick of celery, 2 carrots, 1 slice of egg 
plant, 1 slice of squash, a, handful of black-eyed peas (fresh or dried), 
a little parsley, a handful of asparagus and two ounces of butter. 

After having washed the vegetables, cut all into pieces and stew in 
the heated butter for awhile; then add a little boiling water and boil 
until done, after which stir all through a sieve. This vegetable stock 
is used for a number of soups. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Green peas, snap beans, carrots, cauliflower, celery, onion, parsley, 
kohlrabi, potatoes, squash, black-eyed peas (in shell). 

Put butter in a pot on the fire; when heated stir into it one-half 
tablespoonful of flour until it is a dark yellow; pour boiling water 
into it, a little salt and all or most of the above vegetables (which 
have been washed and cut) and boil until done. Finally, just before 
serving, add the yolks of three eggs. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

Put 4 ounces of split peas in cold water and boil until done, and 
then strain them through a sieve. Meanwhile fry a spoonful of fine 
cut onions in 1% ounces of butter and add to it the necessary amount 
of soup vegetables, the strained peas and a little salt; boil awhile. 
Serve with dices of toast. 

The same soup may be made with black-eyed peas and green peas. 



216 NATURE CURE 

PEA SOUP. 

One pint of green peas (or French peas). Boil with 3 ounces of 
butter over a moderate fire; sprinkle IV2 or 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
over it, add the necessary amount of water, a little salt and vegetable 
stock and boil until done. Add the yolks of 2 eggs and serve over 
slices of toast. 

WHITE BEAN SOUP. 

One pound of white beans, 1% ounces of butter, 1% ounces of 
flour, salt, vegetable stock. 

Wash the beans and put them in rain water on a moderate fire; 
boil until done and then stir through a hair sieve. Brown the flour, 
add the beans, salt and vegetable stock. If too thick, add a little 
warm water. Boil one-half hour longer, and just before serving drop 
in toasted bread cut in squares or dice. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Peel 1 pound of cut and washed asparagus and boil in salted water 
or beef soup till done. Melt 3 ounces of butter in a pan, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour; stir awhile and then add the water of the aspara- 
gus. Before serving beat the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs in the tureen. 
Add 8 or 10 spoonfuls of the soup, being careful to beat continually 
the yolks to prevent hardening. Then add the rest of the soup and 
strew over it fine chopped parsley. 

CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 

This soup is made like asparagus soup, except that before serving 
lemon juice, to taste, may be added. 

GRUENKORN SOUP. 
Boil 3 or 4 ounces of gruenkorn in a little water slowly for four or 
five hours, now and then adding a little more water. Stir through a 
fine sieve ; let it come to a boil again, adding salt, vegetable stock and 
1% ounces of butter. If the soup is too thin, thicken with a teaspoon- 
ful of flour dissolved in milk and pour it into the soup, stirring the 
while. Before serving, add the yolk of one egg and farina dumplings. 



EYaiENW COOKIWa 217 

SPINACH SOUP. 

Clean and wash ^ peck of spinach; boil in a little water; put 1% 
ounces of butter in a pot, add the spinach and boil for awhile, adding 
a little salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of com-stareh and as much water as is 
needed. Serve with little crackers. 

A soup may be made in the same way of squash. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Wash and boil 2 pounds of tomatoes; when done stir through a 
hair sieve; beat % pound of butter mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls of 
corn-starch and stir into tomato stock, together with a little salt, 
naehrsalz size of a pea (see page 206). Add the necessary amount of 
water and some parsley chopped fine. After boiling 20 minutes 
longer, take from the fire, and before serving pour into it one-half 
pint of cider. 

PEANUT SOUP. 

Peel and grate 4 ounces of peanuts; put 1 quart of bvittermilk on a 
moderate fire; stir constantly until it comes to a boil, then pour it 
over the grated peanuts. Add a little salt, sugar and ^y tablespoon- 
ful of meal and let it boil 20 minutes, stirring all the while. Take 
from the Are and add the yolks of 2 eggs. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Cut into pieces l*/^ pounds of peeled and washed potatoes; boil 
them in salted water till done and then put with the same water 
through a sieve. Meanwhile fiy a tablespoonful of onions cut fine and 
1 tablespoonful of flour to a light brown in 2 ounces of butter; pour 
cold water to it; add them and vegetable stock to the potatoes. 

LENTIL SOUP. 

Soak 1 pound of lentils over night in rain water; next morning put 
them over a moderate fire in the same water in which they were 
soaked, and cook till thoroughly done. If needed, add cold rain 
water now and then ; put through a hair sieve ; brown one tablespoon- 
ful of flour and one-half fine chopped onion in 2 ounces of butter and 
stir into the soup. Salt to taste. 



218 NATURE CURE 

JWUSHROOM SOUP. 

Wash 1 pound of mixed mushrooms; chop them, not fine; add 3 
ounces of butter, 14 onion, a little fine chopped parsley. Stew slowly 
awhile; add the necessary amount of water and boil till done. Brown 
a little flour in butter, add it to the soup and stir into it, just before 
serving, the yolks of 2 eggs. 

A very good soup for convalescents. 

WHITE CABBAGE SOUP. 

Shave 1 pound of white cabbage fine; cook till well done; add to it 
a little salt, 1 tablespoonful of corn-starch, dissolved in cold water, 2 
tablespoonfuls of fresh butter, 1 egg, one-half bottle of cider, and 
sen'e with snowflake crackers or breadsticks. 

PRUNE SOUP. 

^A'ash prunes (fresh or dried) in cold water and cook in a little 
cold water over a moderate fire till done; put them through a sieve 
and sweeten to taste. In another pot put about 1 quart of milk and 
mix with it 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch and bring it to a boil, 
stirring all the while. Salt to taste; let it boil a few minutes longer 
and take from the fire. Just before serving stir the prunes into the 
milk. 

CHERRY SOUP. 

Wash and pit sour cherries; boil them in a little water and sugar 
till done. Meanwhile, or the day before, soak stale bread in cold 
water till soft. Put this on a moderate fire, with the juice of one 
lemon and a little salt; boil ten minutes, stirring constantly; then 
put the cherries into it and set aside. 

APPLE SOUP. 

Two quarts of apples, % pint of white wine, water, sugar and 
instantaneous tapioca. 

Cut the apples in pieces, unpeeled; wash them and boil them in a 
little water till well done. Put them through a sieve, pour water on 
this sauce and let them boil again for a few minutes. Stir 2 table- 



HYGIENIC COOKINO 219 

spoonfuls of tapioca, with the wine and sugar, into the soup and boil 
one or two minutes longer. 

BUTTERMILK SOUP. 

Cook 2 cups of pearl barley with % tablespoonful of flour till well 
done. Bring to a boil 1 quart of buttermilk with 14 tablespoonful of 
flour, stirring constantly. Add the barley and salt, sweeten to taste, 
and add 1 egg just before serving. 

BARLEY SOUP. 

One-half pound of prunes, 2 cups of barley. Boil each alone till 
well done in a little water; salt and sweeten to taste. Add a little 
butter and 1 quart of milk; bring to a boil together and take off. 

RICE SOUP. 

Put 4 ounces of rice in water and heat till just before the boiling 
point, then pour the water off and add fresh cold water to it. Boil 
slowly with 1 tablespoonful of butter till well done. Meanwhile stir 
1 teaspoonful of flour in a cup of milk; pour this with some vege- 
table stock into the boiling rice, salt to taste and cook for 15 
minutes longer, stirring all the while. Before serving add the yolks 
of 2 eggs. 

QUAKER OATS SOUP. 

One large cup of Quaker Oats, 14 cup of butter, 1 quart of water, 
salt and vegetable stock. 

After having melted the butter, stir the oats into it. When well 
mixed add the water, vegetable stock and salt; boil all till well done 
and serve. If desired any kind of fruit juice may be added to 
the soup. 

FARINA SOUP. 

Bring to a boil % pound of washed seedless raisins or % pound 
of currants and raisins mixed, in a little water; season with a little 
lemon spice (see page 207) and salt. Add slowly while stirring con- 
stantly 1 cup of farina. Cook 10 minutes, take off, and just before 
serving add 1 egg, well beaten ; sweeten to taste and flavor with juice 
of a lemon and a cup of cider. 



220 NATURE CURE 

This soup may lie made with eoin-meal, instantaneous tapioca, 
pearl barley, wheat hearts, gruenkorn or rice instead of farina. 

BROWN SOUP. 

In a deep dry pan, brown very evenly, stirring constantly, 1 cup of 
flour. When of a chocolate brown, pour cold water on it. Season 
with salt and 2 teaspoonfuls of butter and take off. 

This soup is particularly good for convalescents. 



CRANBERRY SOUP. 

Take 6 cups of cranberry sauce; add to it 1 cup of gingerbread or 
ginger snaps soaked in water; add salt and sugar to taste and 1 
teaspoonful of eora-starch dissolved in a little water, and boil 
awhile. Take off and serve with toast, crackers or breadsticks. 

This soup may be made with muskmelon, raspberry sauce or goose- 
berry sauce instead of cranberries. 



COLD SOUPS. 



PEACH SOUP. 

Peel and cut into pieces 2 pounds of very ripe peaches; sprinkle 
sugar over them and pour on a mixture of half cider and half water. 
Let them stand an hour and sen'e with vanilla wafers. 



RASPBERRY SOUP. 

Take 1 quart of raspberries; wash them if necessary and stir 
through a hair sieve; pour over them a mixture of 1 quart of water 
and the juice of 2 lemons. Sweeten to taste, put spiceless wafers in 
the tureen and pour the soup over them. 

This soup may be made of blackberries instead of raspberries. 



HYGIENIC COOKING 221 

HUCKLEBERRY SOUP. 

Wash 2 pounds of huckleberries; put them in water, bring to a boil 
and stir through a fine hair sieve into a bowl in which is 3 ounces of 
sugar and % bottle of cider. Serve with dice-shaped pieces of toast 
or breadsticks. 

CLABBER SOUP. 

Put fresh milk into a bowl in a moderately warm place for 1 or 
2 days till it turns to clabber; sprinkle over it svigar and grated 
brown or graham bread, a little cinnamon and grated gingersnaps. 

ALMOND MILK SOUP. 

Take 4 ounces of sweet almonds and 8 ounces of bitter almonds; 
chop them fine, then boil tliem in 3 quarts of sweet milk, in which is 
1 peach leaf or lemon spice to taste, for y^ hour; add a tablespoonful 
of corn-starch mixed in a little of the cold sweet milk, a little sugar 
and salt, and boil awhile. Stir into the soup the well-beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs. When cold take out tlie peach leaf, beat to a stiff froth the 
whites of 2 eggs and from a spoon drop lumps of the froth at regular 
distances over the top of the soup. Serve cold with crackers or 
toast. Very good. 

VANILLA SOUP. 

This is made like the above, except that vanilla is used for flavor- 
ing instead of a peach leaf and the almonds are omitted, while a little 
more corn-starch is used. 

PECAN SOUP. 

This may be made the same as the almond soup, except that pecans 
are used instead of almonds. 

CURD SOUP. 

Stir 1 pound of curd through a hair sieve and add 2% oimces of 
sugar; pour into the curd 1 quart of cream, being careful to beat 
the curd hard and constantly while pouring in the cream, that it may 
be light and foamy. Serve with grated gingerbread or breadsticks. 



222 NATURE CURE 

RICE SOUP. 

Blanch and chop fine 1% ounces of pecans; boil them in 1 quart of 
milk for 10 minutes and add 1 cup of rice flour or rice meal. Let it 
boil slowly for awhile, take off and sweeten to taste. Before serving 
beat into it the yolks of 2 eggs. 

INSTANTANEOUS TAPIOCA SOUP. 

Tliis soup is made the same way as the above, except that instead 
of rice, instantaneous tapioca may be used, omitting the pecans. 

CIDER SOUP. 

Take 1 bottle of cider and the same amount of water; add to this 
1 cup of seedless raisins soaked in hot water, sugar to taste, the 
juice of 1 lemon, rind of y^ lemon, 2',^ pounds of grated stale graham 
bread or whole wheat bread. Let it stand for two hours, stirring now 
and then. 



BREAD. 



SOFT OATMEAL BREAD. 

Take 1 pint of oatmeal that is left from breakfast; stir into it % 
pint of scalded milk; when well mixed add i/l> cup of yellow corn- 
meal. When partly cold add quickly the yolks of 3 eggs, and then 
stir in the well-beaten whites. Cover tlie bottom of the baking pan 
with chopped dates, pour over lliem the bread mixture and bake in a 
quick oven 30 minutes. It should be broken with a fork and taken 
out with a spoon. 

MUSH GEMS. 

Stir % of a cup of corn-meal with a pint of hot milk and boil till 
smooth. Take from the fire, add the yolks of 4 eggs and then the 
wellbeatcn whites. Bake in greased gem pans in a moderate oven 
20 minutes. 



BYOIENW COUKING 223 

BREADSTICKS. 

Sift into a large bowl a quart of whole wheat flour; rub into it 
two teaspoonfuls of good butter and salt until thoroughly mixed 
with the flour. Now stir briskly with a large spoon while pouring in 
with the other hand % pint of cold water. This must now be 
kneaded into a firm, smooth dough. Cut ofl' a piece the size of a small 
fist and roll it on the breadboard until it is about the thickness of the 
little finger and cut it into five-inch lengths. Put all in a long baking 
pan, being careful that they do not touch each other, and bake 1 
hour, turning occasionally with a fork. Tlie colder the dough is 
while working the closer and more tender the breadsticks will be. 

MUFFINS OF WHEAT FLOUR. 

Mix together 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and stir into it white flour enough to 
make a dough of proper consistency. Then beat the whites of the 
eggs, mix all together and put in a well-greased pan and bake iu 
a hot oven. 

CORN-MEAL MUFFINS. 

These are made the same as white flour mufiins, except that more 
corn-meal and less white flour is used — about % corn-meal and % 
white flour. 

CORN BREAD. 

Make this the same as corn-meal muffins, but instead of baking in 
muflin pans bake in a long pan and when done cut into squares. 



RYE BREAD. 

Dissolve in the evening 1 compressed yeast cake in a quart of warm 
water; mix this with 4 teaspoonfuls of salt and as much rye flour 
as will make a stiff mass; stir it well and place during the night in 
a warm place to rise. In the morning knead it well for 1^3 hours 
with wheat flour, form the dough into loaves, put in a warm place to 



224 NATURE CVRE 

rise again and bake them for 1^ hours in a good hot oven. It ought 
to have a good brown crust. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 
This is made lilce the above, except a little less wheat flour is used. 



VEGETABLES. 



VEGETABLE RAGOUT. 

This is made of equal parts of boiled Irish potatoes cut in small 
square pieces, raw apples, cooked beets (cut fine), and a few seedless 
raisins. 

Make a gravy of 1 tablespoonful of white flour, 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, and let it come to a boil; add salt and water, and put the 
vegetables, with Dr. Lahmann's naehrsalz (see page 206), and juice of 
% lemon into it and let all some to a boil again before serving. 

CABBAGE WITH APPLES. 

Chop % of a large cabbage very fine ; boil it in a very little water 
with a little salt, good drippings and 14 tablespoonful of butter. 
When half done, add three large or five small cooking apples (peeled 
and sliced) to the cabbage, and cook till they are done. Pour over 
it the juice of % lemon and a little flour mixed together, and let boil 
awhile longer. 

Red cabbage may also be used for a change in the same way. 

CABBAGE WITH POTATOES. 

Clean the cabbage leaves and cut in large pieces like lettuce and put 
with the necessary amount of boiling water on the flre till done; 
then peel and cut in pieces some Irish potatoes and add them to the 
cabbage and let them boil till done; season with good drippings, 
butter and salt; strew over a little flour, mix all well together, 
adding water when necessary; put in some beef drippings and let it 
boil for a few minutes longer. 



BYOIENIG COOKING 225 



SAUERKRAUT. 



Put % ounce of butter or konut in a pot with a little boiling 
water; add 1 pound of sauerkraut and boil till done; then add % 
ounce of beef drippings, a few small cooked Irish potatoes, a little 
flour and Lahmann's naehrsalz (as much as 3 peas) ; put this with 
the cabbage, with the necessary amount of water, and mix well 
together. 

SPINACH. 

Take a peck of spinach and wash clean; put it in a very little 
boiling water, adding water when necessary. Wlien well done take 
up, and if so preferred chop fine; this is a matter of taste. Make a 
gravy of 10 ounces of butter, with chopped onion and bread crumbs. 
Put the spinach into it and add sweet milk to taste. 

Beet leaves may be used in the same way. 

ONIONS. 

Peel the onions and put them on the Are with butter, salt, a little 
nutmeg and grated zwieback; add a little water when necessary; 
flavor with lemon juice to taste and serve when done. 

CARROTS. 

After having cleaned and washed 2 bunches of carrots, cut them in 
small thin strips about 2 inches long and put them, with a table- 
spoonful of butter or konut, with a little water on a moderate flre, 
and when done sprinkle over the carrots a little flour, salt and sugar 
to taste, and chopped parsley. Let all boil together in the necessary 
amount of water slowly for a few minutes. 

GREEN BEANS. 

Two quarts of green beans. Break the beans in two or three pieces. 
After having washed the beans put them with % tablespoonful of 
beef drippings with a cupful of boiling water and boil till done. 
Meanwhile make a grsivy of % tablespoonful of butter, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of flour, 1^ chopped onion and the necessary amount of water, and 
salt to taste. Put the beans into it and let all come to a boil again. 

15 



228 NATURE CURS 

WHITE BEANS. 

After having shelled 2 quarts of beans, boil in a little water for 
several hours till done; then make a gravy with a little butter, ^, 
tablespoonful of flour, salt and water and add to the beans. Pour 
over the beans a little milk, so they will not be too dry. 

CUT BEANS. 

String very young green beans and cut them in thin lengthwise 
pieces; wash these and mix with them butter, salt, V2 onion, chopped 
fine, and a very little water. Boil until done, adding water to them 
when necessary. Mix a little flour in with the beans and boil 
together. 

BEETS. 

Boil the beets till done, but do not stick them with a fork or they 
will lose their fine red color. Then cut in round slices and add 
butter and a little lemon juice. 

KOHLRABI. 

Peel and cut 1 peck of kohlrabi in round fine slices and boil in » 
little water till done. Take off and cool, and if there is too much 
water pour off in another pan. Then make a gravy with this water, 
1 pint of milk, salt, Lahmann's naehrsalz, Y2 tablespoonful of flour 
and a tablespoonful of butter; add this gravy to the kohlrabi and let 
all come to a boil again. If the kohlrabi is young and has greens, 
cut and boil both together. 

WHITE TURNIPS. 

Take % peck of nice, sweet, white turnips; peel and cut them in 
pieces; make a gravy of 1 tablespoonful of good beef drippings or 
butter, milk and salt and put the turnips into it; bring all to a boil 
till well done, and add as often as necessary a little milk or cream, 
and mix well together before serving. 

WAX BEANS. 

These beans are to be cooked just like the green beans, except that 
milk instead of water is used and the onions are omitted. 



HYGIENIC COOKINO 227 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Cut off the stalks and take out the little leaves with a small knife, 
so that the head of the cauliflower does not break in pieces; put it 
in cold water awhile to clean, and then put it on the fire with a little 
salt in the water and boil till done; pour off the water, which is to 
be saved for the sauce, and serve with cream, sauce or melted butter. 



TURNIP GREENS WITH POTATOES. 

Strip the leaves of a bucketful of turnip greens from the stems ; 
wash these well and cut them fine; put with 14 piut of water on the 
fire together with a piece of bacon and some salt; boil till nearly 
done; then add a large grated raw potato and V2 cup of milk and let 
boil 15 or 20 minutes longer. Must not be watery but fluid evap- 
orated. 

GERMAN KALE. 

Wash and cut the kale and boil in % pint of water till half done. 
Meanwhile cook in another pot a piece of beef, ham or bacon; when 
done mix it with the kale and sprinkle a little flour over it. Mix 
well, let the fluid evaporate and serve. 



CAULIFLOWER WITH CHEESE. 

After having cooked the cauliflower as in the above "plain cauli- 
flower," serve nicely in a deep dish; mix the cream sauce with 1 or 2 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan or Swiss cheese; pour it over the 
cauliflower and cover entirely with cheese and melted butter and 
brown in « hot oven. 

OYSTER PLANT. 

Take a tablespoonful of flour and mix well with water or milk; 
clean each piece of the oyster plant in hot water and peel ; cut in 2 
or 3 lengths and boil in the above gravy till done; add the necessary 
amount of butter, salt and sugar, and before serving sprinkle with 
bread crumbs. 



228 NATURE CURB 

ASPARAGUS. 

Peel the asparagus from head to end and cut off as much as is 
hard; wash and tie in small bundles; put in boiling water enough to 
cover and boil very slowly, otherwise the softer parts will cook to 
pieces before the rest. Season with a very little salt, so as not to 
harden the asparagus. Serve with melted butter or asparagus 
gravy. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Cut off a little piece from the ends, wash them carefully and put 
them on the fire with butter and a little water; let them boil 
slowly 14 hour, then add a teaspoonful of white flour or grated 
zwieback, a little salt and lemon juice to the gravy and thicken with 
the yolk of an egg. 

CHESTNUTS. 

Peel the chestnuts, pour hot water over them and take off the 
inner skin; season with a little salt, sugar and butter and boil till 
done; then add a little flour and mix together. 

DRIED WHITE BEANS. 

Soak them over night in cold water, then put on the fire and boil; 
change the water twice, then add good beef drippings, a little salt, 
and when well done, before serving, add lemon juice to taste. 

DRIED PEAS. 

Soak and cook the peas the same as white dried beans. When 
done stir through a sieve, season with salt and good beef drippings. 
Before serving pour over them a gravy of chopped onions browned 
in butter. The peas are to be thickened and are good eaten with 
sauerkraut. 

DRIED GREEN BEANS IN THE SHELL. 

Dry small green beans in the shell during the autumn for winter 
use. Before using soak over night in cold water, and then boil in 
fresh water till done. Add water when necessary, season with salt 
and lemon juice to taste, and let all boil together for awhile. 



BYGIEmC COOKING 229 

LENTILS. 

Put the lentils in cold water to boil till done. Then brown a little 
cut onion and flour in drippings and butter and mix with hot water. 
Stir this into the lentils and add salt to taste. 



POTATO DISHES. 



POTATOES WITH MILK SAUCE. 

Take medium-sized potatoes; peel and boil till done; add the salt 
just before done, in order not to harden them, so they will not fall 
to pieces ; pour off the water, make a milk sauce and pour over before 
sen'ing. Make plentifully of the sauce, as good mealy potatoes are 
very absorbent. 

SOUR POTATOES. 

Make good beef drippings very hot; brown in it some fine chopped 
onions and thicken with a little flour; add the potatoes with water 
and salt and boil till done. Serve with lemon juice to taste. 



MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil the potatoes in salted water and put through a sieve; add 
butter and milk, or milk and boiling water, till the potatoes are of 
the right consistenoj'. If agreeable, onions chopped fine or zwei- 
back browned in hot butter may be stirred into the mashed potatoes. 



POTATO SLICES FRIED. 

Peel the potatoes, wash and cut in thin round or lengthwise slices, 
then put half butter and half beef drippings in a pan and put the 
potatoes in it; sprinkle with salt, pour over a cup of water and 
cover; then let them cook till done and fry a yellow brown. 



230 NATURE CURE 

POTATOES WITH APPLES. 

Cook some Irish potatoes alone; also alone the same amount of 
sour apples ; then mix both together well, mashing as in mashed pota- 
toes; add salt, good beef drippings, butter and a little sugar to 
taste, and let them come to a boil. Before serving pour over them a 
thick sauce made of grated z^vieback in melted butter. 



SALADS. 

In making a salad it is always best to pour the olive oil over the 
salad and then mix in the other ingredients. 

LETTUCE. 

Clean, cut and wash the lettuce well in cold water. Just before 
serving mix with juice of % lemon, a little salt and % onion, chopped 
fine. 

WATER CRESS. 

Prepare just like lettuce; and add hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. 

BEAN SALAD. 

Clean fine green beans; boil till done, then pour off the water and 
when cool mix with salt, lemon juice, olive oil and an onion chopped 
fine. 

MIXED SALADS. 

Take equal portions of cold sliced Irish potatoes and beets, and 
add sliced apples or red cabbage, chopped fine, and salted cucum- 
bers; mix all together (being very careful not to break the slices) 
with oil, salt, lemon juice and juice of the beets. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cook Irish potatoes with the peel, using a kind that are not too 
mealy; cut them in thin slices, mix with a little hot water, salt, 
lemon juice, an onion chopped fine, or sour cream. 

Salads may be made in the same way of beans and cucumbers. 



BYOIENW COOKINO 231 

SALAD OF WHITE OR RED CABBAGE. 

Chop the cabbage very fine; mix with sour cream sauce and serve 
with potatoes. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Take 1 part of cauliflower, 1 part of carrots, 1 part of peas and 1 
part of asparagus tips, and boil each ingredient separately till done; 
then mix lightly, put on a large flat plate, cover with mayonnaise 
sauce and serve. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Wash, peel and slice the cucumbers very thin; just before serving 
pour over them olive oil, salt and lemon juice, or if preferred take 1 
hard-boiled egg, mash it up very fine with a fork and then stir into it 
olive oil, salt, lemon juice or sour cream, and mix in with the 
cucumbers. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Wash and clean the celery and cut it into 1 or 2-inch lengths ; then 
mix it with mayonnaise sauce. 



DUMPLINGS. 

The white bread which is for dumplings need not be fresh nor put 
in warm or hot water; use stale, soak it in cold water and press out 
the surplus water. 

FINE POTATO DUMPLINGS. 

Take 2 soup plates full of grated potatoes which have been 
cooked the day before in the peel; add 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, a 
little nutmeg, salt, a small cup of butter, Lahmann's naehrsalz and 4 
or 5 egg.s; the whites and yolks must be well beaten separately, the 
whites to a stiff froth; mix all together well; dip out with a table- 
spoon and drop into boiling salted water and boil 1.5 minutes. Serve 
with melted butter. 



232 NATURE CURE 

RICE DUMPLINGS. 

Wash V2 pound of best rice; put it in cold water and boil slowly 
till well done; let it cool; add 4 eggs, salt, Lahmann's naehrsalz, 2 
ounces of butter well beaten with 1 tablespoonful of ilour; fonn into 
small dumplings and cook them in boiling water. Serve with tomato 
sauce. 

CLABBER DUMPLINGS. 

Mix 1 pint of clabber with 1 pint of grated potatoes, cooked the 
day before; add 2 eggs, 4 ounces of flour, salt and caraway seeds to 
taste. When well mixed, boil all together in salted boiling water. 



PANCAKES. 

Pancakes are to be fried in equal parts of Ko-nut and butter, 
which makes them more easily digested, and they are not so apt to 
bum in frying. 

POTATO PANCAKES. 

Peel, wash and grate raw Irish potatoes; add salt, 2 or 3 eggs, an 
onion chopped fine, Lahmann's naehrsalz. Mix all well together and 
bake in little, round, tliin cakes in hot Ko-nut and butter. 

EGG PANCAKES. 

For 3 large cakes which fill the pan, take the yolks of 6 fresh eggs, 
6 small spoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of sweet milk, 2 pints of sour 
cream and a little salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs, cream, flour and salt together well, then 
stir in the milk. Just before baking add the well-beaten whites of 
the eggs. 

CORN-STARCH PANCAKES. 

Take yolks of 4 eggs, 2 ounces of corn-starch, 1 pint of warm milk, 
% pint of water and a little salt; beat all well together; add the 
well-beaten whites and bake in hot butter and Ko-nut. 



HYOIEXW COOKINO 233 

FLOUR PANCAKES. 

For a medium-sized pancake, which covers the pan, take % pound 
of flour, 2 eggs, 1 pint of milk and a little salt. Beat all well together 
and bake in hot butter and Ko-nut. 

CURRANT PANCAKES. 

Three eggs, 2% tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of sweet milk, mixed 
with a little water, a little salt and sugar. Beat well. Put Ko-nut 
and butter in a pan. When hot, put in the batter; pour over it the 
washed currants with sugar to taste. Before turning pour over the 
currants fine grated zwieback, and serve on this side sprinkled with 
sugar. 

SOUR CHERRY PANCAKES. 

May be made the same as above, except that cherries are used 
instead of currants. 

APPLE PANCAKES. 

Peel and cut in thin slices a soup-plateful of nice ripe apples. 
Put in a pan and cover with a little butter; pour over them the 
batter (as in currant pancake) ; let them bake till done. Turn and 
bake without zwieback. Serve with sugar sprinkled over them. 

PANCAKES WITH SWEET CORN. 

Make a batter as above and mix in it fresh sweet corn left from 
dinner. Bake in little cakes on both sides in Ko-nut. Serve with 
maple syrup. 

BUCKWHEAT PANCAKES. 

To evejy cup of buckwheat flour take 1 cup of hot water, 1 cup of 
sour cream or a little Ko-nut or butter, a little salt and % ounce 
yeast; dried currants may also be added. After having beaten all 
thoroughly togethei-, set the batter aside to rise. When light, bake 
like other pancakes. 



234 NATURE CURE 

VEGETABLE SLICES. 



GRUENKORN SLICES. 

Take 1% cups of gruenkom; put with it 1 tablespoonful of butter, 
a little salt and a little cold water, and boil five or six hours, till 
soft. Use as little water as possible, being careful, however, that it 
does not burn. When done take off and cool. Meanwhile chop an 
onion fine and fiy it in melted butter; add this with 2 eggs, a little 
bread crumbs, salt and Lahmann's naehrsalz to the gruenkom. Cut 
in slices, turn in bread crumbs and fry on both sides in hot Ko-nut. 
Serve with onion gravy. Very good and nourishing. 

MUSH SLICES. 

Use mush, grits, oatmeal or flakes for this nice supper dish; 1% 
cups of cereal; boil till done. Mix with 1 or 2 eggs, salt, Lahmann's 
naehrsalz and a little nutmeg. Cut in slices and bake like pancakes 
with sweet com. 

SLICES OF VEGETABLES. 

Take cold, cooked vegetables, such as spinach, carrots, peas or 
beans; chop them, add salt, 3 or 4 eggs, chopped onion and grated 
bread crumbs. Fix them the same as other slices and fry in Ko-nut. 

PEA SLICES. 

Two cups of dried green peas, soaked over night in cold water. 
Boil till done, stir through a sieve, add little pieces of white bread, 
chopped onion heated in melted butter, and 2 or 3 eggs. Cover with 
grated bread crumbs and fry in Ko-nut and butter. 

TOMATO SLICES. 

One dinner-plateful of cooked and grated potatoes, the same amoimt 
of peeled sliced tomatoes, 3 ounces of butter, 2 eggs, salt and Lah- 
mann's naehrsalz. Mix well together and then bake like the other 
slices. 



HYOIENIC COOKINO 235 

VARIOUS DINNER AND SUPPER DISHES. 



SOUR CREAM DISH. 

Beat % pound of butter with 1 quart of sour cream till foamy, 
then add the yolks of 6 eggs, a little salt, % pound of grated white 
bread, and lastly the stiff beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in a 
china baking dish in a hot oven for 1 hour. 

CORN-MEAL. 

Pour % pound of white corn-meal in 1 quart of boiling water, and 
let it cook slowly for awhile; take off, and when cool add the yolks 
of 4 eggs, a little salt, Lahmann's naehrsalz and, lastly, the well- 
beaten whites. Put it in a well-greased pan, cover with butter and 
grated bread crumbs and boil in hot water. 

GRUENKORN. 

Boil 14 pound of grated gruenkom \nth 1 pint of milk slowly till 
done. Meanwhile soak 3 large zwiebacks, or the same amount of 
stale white bread without the crust, in water. Fry 1 onion, chopped 
fine, in 1 large tablespoonful of butter till brown. Press out the 
zwieback or bread from the water and mix it well with the corn. 
Stir in the yolks of 3 eggs, add Lahmann's naehrsalz, salt to taste 
and add a little nutmeg, and finally the well-beaten whites of the 
eggs. Mix all together thoroughly and put in a pan well greased and 
lined with bread crumbs, and boil 1% hours. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Peel, cut and soak 4 zwiebacks, or the same amount of white bread, 
in water. Press the water from the zwieback or bread and put it in a 
pan with a tablespoonful of butter, chopped onion, parsley, salt and 
Lahmann's naehrsalz. Set it on the stove and let it brown for awhile. 
Meanwhile chop fine % pound of good mushrooms, stew them till 
tender in a little butter, take off and add 4 yolks of eggs, finally the 
well-beaten whites of the eggs, and cook all together in a good gravy. 
Put all in a pan, well greased and lined with bread crumbs, and boil 
for 1 hour in hot water. 



236 NATURE! CURE 

TAPIOCA. 

Put 14 pound of instantaneous tapioca with 1 large tablespoonful 
of butter in 1 pint of boiling water till thick and well done. When 
cool add the well-beaten yolks of 4 or 5 eggs, 1 teacupful of flour 
and a little nutmeg to taste. Finally add the well-beaten white.s 
of the eggs and cook like the above. 

SPINACH. 

Take 1 can of spinach, or the fresh (preferred) ; chop it a little, 
with 1 onion, a little parsley and a little salt. Stew it with 1 table- 
spoonful of butter. Jleanwhile soak 4 or 5 zwiebacks in milk. 
Press out the milk, mix it with 2% ounces of butter, which has been 
beaten to a cream, and with all the above ingredients. Finally, stir 
in the well-beaten whites of the eggs and put all in a well-greased 
pan lined with bread crumbs. Cook 1 hour in boiling water, or bake 
in a china bake dish in the oven. 

QUAKER OATS. 

Beat C ounces of butter to a cream; add to it the yolks of 4 or 5 
eggs and .3 ounces of Quaker Oats. Then cook 3 large tablespoonfuls 
of vegetables, such as cauliflower or asparagvis, in a little water till 
done. Pour ofT the water and mi.x it with the whites of the eggs; 
season with a little salt. Jlix all together and bake like the above. 

RICE DISH. 

Boil % pound best rice in a little water till about half done; then 
pour off the water. Put a little butter in a pan, add to it 1% 
quarts of milk and % quart of water and let it come to a boil. Put 
the rice in it and cook till done, neither too stiff nor too soft. Add 
to taste a little salt and sugar. Serve cold or warm. 

RICE WITH APPLES. 

Boil V2 pound of best rice with 1 quart of milk till about half 
done. Put a little butter in a pan, put the rice in, add boiling water 
and let it cook slowly. When nearly done, add peeled and sliced 



UYGIENIC COOKING 237 

apples, and sugar to taste; let all boil together. When necessary 
shake, but do not stir, so as not to break the rice. Sprinkle sugar 
over it and serve. 

TOAST AND CHEESE. 

Grate Edam or Swiss cheese and mix with tlie same amount of 
butter to a cream, and spread on nicely toasted white bread. Serve 
hot or cold. 

PARSLEY ON TOAST. 

Cream 3 ounces of butter, add juice of 1 lemon and 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of parsley, chopped fine. Mix well together and spread on cold 
buttered toast. 

MUSHROOMS ON TOAST. 

Stew two tablespoonfuls of best mushrooms witli a little water and 
butter. Then put it througli a sieve. Beat 3 ounces of butter to a 
cream, mix it with the mushrooms, stew again and spread on toast 
or white bread. 

CLABBER CREAM. 

Beat clabber with the cream for 15 minutes. Sweeten to taste, 
flavor with cinnamon and frviit juice and serve with crackers. 



EGGS. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Take to each person 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of milk, a little salt and 
V2 tablespoonful of butter. Beat eggs, milk, butter and salt together 
and cook in melted butter. As soon as it thickens, dip out with a 
spoon in small slices, put in a dish and serve. Instead of butter, 
some prefer to use water in mixing. 

DROPPED EGGS. 

Bring to a boil 1 quart of water and 1 pint of lemon juice and a 
little salt. The eggs are to be cooked in this one at a time. Drop an 



238 NATURE CURE 

egg in, take a large spoon, and, with this, carefully keep the white 
covered over the yolk. When the white hardens take the egg out and 
pour cold water over it. 

OMELETTE. 

Take 1 tablespoonful of flour and dissolve it in 2 tablespoonfuls 
of tepid milk and the yolks of 4 eggs, a little salt and sugar, and stir 
all thoroughly together. Finally add the whites beaten to a snow. 
Bake in a batter pan slowly on one side till the dough looks dry; put 
on a platter and sprinkle over the half of it the juice of a lemon and 
some sugar. Double over and sprinkle over with sugar. 

OMELETTE WITH JELLY. 

Bake an omelette like the above, omitting the lemon juice. When 
taken up spread raspberry or apple jelly over' it. Double over and 
serve hot. 

EGGS IN CUPS. 

Grease the earthenware egg cups with melted butter. Break into 
each cup 2 eggs; sprinkle with a little salt; have a pan of boiling 
water on the stove; set the egg cups in, letting the water cover the 
cups as high as the eggs in the cups. Let them stay 8 minutes in the 
water. Take out, let them cool in the cups and turn out, or serve 
hot in the cups. 



MEATS. 



BEEF ROAST. 

Put beef drippings in a pan on the top of the stove ; beat the beef, 
rub salt in on both sides; add it then to the drippings with sliced 
onions, and a little garlic to taste. Let fry on both sides, keeping 
closely covered all the time. Then put in an oven to bake and pour 
the gravy over it every 10 minutes, keeping covered well between 
times. A roast of 5 pounds will need to be covered nearly 3 hours. 
When done take out and sprinkle flour in the gra^-y to thicken it, 
and if necessary add a little hot water and boil a few minutes. 



BYaiENW cooKiya 239 

VEAL ROAST. 

For this roast take, instead of beef drippings, butter and a little 
bacon, without onions or garlic. Cook in the same way as the beef 
roast, but only two hours. Add finally the gravy with a little sour 
cream or milk. 

MUTTON ROAST. 

Rub salt into the roast and cook the same as the beef roast. 

RABBIT STEW. 

Wash and cut the meat into small pieces; put in a china dish and 
pour over it boiled cider or lemon juice and water in which is cut 
onions, spices and bay leaves. Let the meat stay in this spiced vin- 
egar 1 or 2 days. Then take out, put in a pan on the stove with a 
little of the cider, adding water, fresh-cut onions, a little salt and 
flour and boil till done. Finally thicken the gravy with browned 
flour, add white wine and a very little sugar to taste. 

COLD MEAT JELLY. 

Take of pig's feet and calf's feet an equal number; cook them till 
done in a little water, with salt, cut onions, spices and lemon juice to 
taste. Take up when done and empty all into a sieve, saving the 
gravy which is drained from the meat. Cut the meat from the feet in 
small dice-shaped pieces and put in the gravy to cook again till well 
done. Then pour very cold water in a china dish and empty it out 
again, not drying, as this prevents sticking. Pour the meat and 
gravy into the wet dish, being sure to have gravy enough to cover the 
meat. Let it stand till it is stiff, then cut in slices and serve plain, 
or it is veiy nice with mayonnaise sauce. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Clean and wash the chicken without cutting it up; rub some salt 
over it and fry in butter in an open pan till it is a light brown on 
both sides. Then add a little water, put in the oven and baste every 
10 minutes with the gravy. Keep covered, and when done take out 
of the gravy and ean'e just before serving. Thicken the gra>'y with a 
little flour and boil a few minutes. 



240 NATURE CUBE 

STEWED CHICKEN. 

Wash and clean the chicken, cut it in pieces and cook till nearly- 
done in boiling salted water. Put some butter and flour (1 table- 
spoonful for each chicken) in a, pot; add to this a part of the 
gravy in which the chicken was cooked, and the chicken, and boil 
together till done. Then take out the chicken and stir into the 
gravy the beaten yolk of an egg; pour the gravy over the chicken 
and serve with cooked rice around the dish. 

STEWED VEAL. 

This is cooked like the stewed chicken, except that, before well 
done, a fine chopped onion and capers to taste is added. 



SAUCES FOR MEATS AND VEGETABLES. 



SOUR EGG SAUCE FOR GREEN BEANS AND POTATOES. 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of best flour and 1 
pint of fresh milk ; add Vi tablespoonful of good butter, a little grated 
nutmeg and lemon juice to give a sour taste. Put on the fire with a 
little salt, stir continually till done and sufficiently thickened. 

CAULIFLOWER SAUCE. 

Take fresh butter, melt it and add to it i^ tablespoonful of flour, 
a little fresh milk, salt and nutmeg; beat all well together on the 
fire till thick ; take off and add the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs. 

ASPARAGUS SAUCE. 

Take yolks of 3 eggs, ly^ tablespoonfuls of flour, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of sweet cream, 1 pint of asparagus water, or plain water, a little nut- 
meg, juice of 1% lemons and sugar to taste. Beat all together and 
stir on the fire till it thickens. Take oflf and stir in % tablespoonful 
of butter and salt to taste. 



BYGIENIG COOKING 241 

FINE ONION SAUCE. 

Peel and cut 3 or 4 onions in small pieces and fry them in a pan 
with a little piece of fat and 1 tablespoonful of flour till brown; 
then add as much water as is required for the desired amount, and 
boil slowly for awhile. Stir through a sieve and bring again to a 
boil, with a little nutmeg and salt. Take off and stir into it a fresh 
piece of butter, the yolk of an egg and a little of Liebig's extract of 
beef. 

This sauce is suitable for boiled meats or potatoes. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Beat 2 or 3 yolks of fresh eggs, always in one direction; then add 
% small cup of olive oil, pouring it in by drops and beating all the 
while in the same direction, till the sauce is thick. Add salt to 
taste. 

CREAM SAUCE FOR SALADS. 

Beat well some thick sour cream with lemon juice, fine olive oil, 
a little salt, and, to taste, a little fine chopped onion. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Chop the parsley fine and stew it in 3 ounces of butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, for 5 or 6 minutes; then add as much water as 
desired. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Take 4 ounces of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour and dissolve 
in water; let it stew for awhile, then add the juice of 1 lemon, i/^ 
chopped onion, a little nutmeg and salt. Meanwhile boil the mush- 
rooms in salted water till done; chop them fine and mix with the 
other ingredients, adding lemon juice to taste. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE. 
Chop 1 onion fine; stew it in 4 ounces of butter; add cucumbers, 
peeled and cut in very small squares; let them stew together for a 
few minutes, then sprinkle 2% tablespoonfuls of flour over them and 
add water, a little sour cream, salt, Lahmann's naehrsalz and the 
juice of 1 lemon, and let all boil well together. 

16 



242 NATURE CURE 

SWEET SAUCES. 



STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Stir 1 pint of strawberry marmalade through a sieve; add 1 quart 
of water and lemon juice to taste. If the sauce is desired thicker, 
stir into the boiling juice 1 tablespoonful of corn-starch dissolved in 
water and boil again a few moments. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE. 

Boil fresh raspberries with water; stir through a sieve; mix with 
water and flavor with lemon juice to taste. 

CHERRY SAUCE. 

Let 1 quart of sour cherries come to a boil with 1 quart of water 
and stir through a hair sieve; put the juice again on the stove; add 
sugar to taste and 1 tablespoonful of corn-starch dissolved in water; 
let all come to a boil together and serve hot or cold. 

PRUNE SAUCE. No. 1. 

Wash fresh prunes, stone them and boil with water; when done 
stir through a hair sieve; put the juice again on the fire, add the 
necessary sugar and corn-starch and let it come to a boil. 

PRUNE SAUCE. No. 2. 

Stone % pound dried prunes ; wash and boil till done in 1 quart of 
water, then stir through a sieve. Add to this the pulp, juice and peel 
of 1 lemon and sugar to taste, and put on the fire to boil. If not thick 
enough, stir in a little dissolved corn-starch. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Peel and cut the apples in pieces ; 1 quart of water, 1 soup-plateful 
of sliced apples, add a few slices of lemon, % tablespoonful of butter, 
and boil till done; stir through a sieve and add % cup of washed 
and boiled currants and a little dissolved corn-starch. 

Prune and apple sauce are nice to serve with dumplings. 



HYGIENIC COOEINO 243 

CKANBERRY SAUCE. 

Boil nice ripe cranberries in water till done, and stir through a 
sieve; add to this sugar and lemon juice to taste. 

FRUIT FOAM. 

Beat the whites of 4 or 5 eggs stiff and mix with 1 quart of fruit 
juice; add sugar and lemon juice to taste. 

RED CURRANT SAUCE. 

Stir 1 pint of washed and cooked currants through a sieve. Add 
to the juice % pound of sugar; beat together for 15 minutes and 
serve with cold rice and blanc-mange. 

FOAM SAUCE. 

Take % bottle of unfermented grape juice, yolks of 3 fresh eggs 
and 2 whole eggs, % tablespoonful of best flour, 2% ounces of sugar, 
juice and peel of 1 lemon ; put all together in a steam pot on the 
fire and stir until the fluid is foamy. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

Bring 1 quart of milk, with sugar and vanilla, to a boil, then 
beat well the yolks of 6 eggs with a little milk (saved from the 
quart) ; stir this into the boiling milk, beating well on the fire for 
awhile, but take ofiT before it comes again to a boil. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Put 3 ounces of chocolate in a very little water on the fire to dis- 
solve; add 1 pint of cream and 1 pint of sweet milk, a little 
vanilla and sugar to taste. Take off and beat in the yolks of 2 eggs. 



244 MATURE CUBE 

COMPOTES. 

Be careful in cooking fruits to stir without breaking them. Boil 
them always on a moderate fire with a little augar and a little water. 

GOOSEBERRY COMPOTE. 

Clean the green gooseberries from the stems, etc.; wash them 
and boil them in a little water, adding water when necessary; add 
sugar and white wine to taste and boil till done.- Then stir in 2 
eggs well beaten and take off. 

HUCKLEBERRY COMPOTE. 

Take 2 quarts of huckleberries, clean and wash them, and boil with 
water and sugar. Pour a layer of them in a china dish and on this 
a, layer of zwieback and continue this till the dish is full. Serve cold. 



APPLE COMPOTE. 

Peel and cut good ripe sour apples and boil with water, sugar 
and dried currants. The currants and apple slices must remain 
whole. When soft, take carefully out of the juice, which is to be 
boiled again with the juice of a lemon, and pour over the compote. 
Let it cool and serve. 

RHUBARB COMPOTE. 

Peel the rhubarb stalks and cut in 2-inch pieces. Boil slowly till 
soft in a little water, with sugar and lemon juice to taste. Use 1 
glass of water and 4 ounces of sugar to every % pound of cut rhubarb. 

STRAWBERRY COMPOTE. 

Clean and wash 1 quart of ripe strawberries; cover with 6 ounces 
of sugar and let stand several hours; drain off the juice through a 
colander, add more sugar to the juice, according to taste, and let it 
boil till stiff. Let it cool and then pour over the strawberries. 



BTGIENIC COOEINa 245 

PLUM COMPOTE. 

Wash and stone nice ripe plums or prunes; put in a dish with a very 
little water and a good deal of sugar; cover closely and put in the 
oven to stew for % hour. Then serve with the juice (cold) in a glass 
dish. 

RED CURRANT COMPOTE. 

Bring some sugar and water to a boil; add to it the washed and 
cleaned currants; take off and pour into a colander; take the juice 
which is drained off, add more sugar to it and let it boil till it 
thickens. When cool, pour over the currants. 



MIXED FRUIT COMPOTE. 

Take equal quantities of currants, strawberries and cherries; bring 
each kind to a boil separately in sugar and water. When done, mix 
together and serve with crackers. 

PEACH COMPOTE. 

Make a syrup of sugar and water; add the peeled fruit and let it 
boil slowly till done, being careful to keep the fruit whole. Take off 
and serve when cool. 

PRUNE MARMALADE. 

Five ounces dried prunes, 2 ounces dried peaches and 2 ounces 
dried apples. Bring each kind to a boil separately till done. Stir 
through a sieve and put all together with sugar and lemon juice on 
the fire to boil for awhile. 



PEAR COMPOTE. 

Peel the pears, cut in halves and take out the cores, and then put 
them in water. Meanwhile put a, little butter and sugar in a pan 
on the stove. Add the pears out of the water and let stew for awhile 
till they begin to brown, then sprinkle over them some sugar; cover 
up again until they are a nice brown. 



24t NATURE CURE 

WARM PUDDINGS. 

The success of a pudding depends largely upon the thorough cream- 
ing of the butter and the beating of the eggs, whites and yolks 
separately, and the whites always to be added last, beaten as stifT as 
possible. 

The forms or molds in which the warm puddings are to be baked 
or boiled must first be well greased with butter and then thickly 
sprinkled over with very finely grated bread crumbs. This prevents 
the pudding from sticking to the mold and forms an agreeable crust. 

Before using corn-starch always dissolve it in a little cold water or 
milk. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One-quarter pound best rice, 1 pint of milk, grated peel of lemon 
and juice of % lemon, 2 ounces of butter, 2 ounces of sugar and 4 
or 5 eggs. 

Soak, the rice, pour off the water and boil in milk, flavored with 
lemon peel, till done; let it cool, then add the butter beaten to a 
cream, the sugar, the yolk of the eggs and the lemon juice, and 
lastly the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Put this mixture and 
macaroons in layers in a pudding mold and boil in hot water 21^ 
hours. This is for 4 to 6 persons. 

SAGO PUDDING. 
One-half pound of best sago, cooked in milk till thick; 5 eggs, 2i^ 
ounces of butter, 2% ounces of sugar, 2 ounces grated zwieback, 1 cup 
of sweet cream and the grated peel of 1 lemon. Mix and cook like 
rice pudding. 

VANILLA PUDDING. 

Three-quarters of a pound of stale bread without the crust, 1 pint 
of fresh cream or milk, 2 ounces butter, 21/2 ounces grated almonds, 
2% ounces sugar, 5 or 6 eggs and vanilla to taste. 

Soak the bread in the milk, cream the butter and add the yolks of 
the eggs, almonds, sugar and vanilla. Beat all the ingredients 
together for 15 minutes, always in the same direction, and lastly, add 
the stiff-beaten whites of the eggs. Boil I^i or 2 hours, and serve 
with fruit juice sauce. 



HYQIENIO COOKIVO 247 

ZWIEBACK PUDDING. 

Three ounces of zwieback, 1 cup seedless raisins, 5 eggs, % quart of 
fresh milk, 1% or 2 ounces sugar and a little nutmeg or vanilla to 
taste. 

Put some zwieback, several hours before cooking, in the bottom of 
a pudding mold. Beat the eggs, whites and yolks together, add 
them to the other ingredients and pour a layer of the batter over the 
zwieback and then put in a layer of the zwieback, etc., till all ingredi- 
ents are in, in this way, finishing with the zwieback. Boil 1% or 2 
hours, and bake in a china dish 1 hour. 

BREAD PUDDING WITH ALMONDS. 

One-half pound stale sifted rye bread crumbs or whole wheat bread, 
Yi pound of butter, 8 eggs, y^ pound sugar, % pound grated almonds, 
grated peel of 1 lemon and the juice of 3 or 4 lemons. 

Stir the bread in with the butter on the fire, add the lemon juice, 
take off and let it cool. Then add all the ingredients and finally the 
stiff-beaten whites of the eggs. Boil the pudding 2 or 2^2 hours, or 
bake 1J4 hours. Serve with hot or cold fruit sauce. For 12 or 14 
persons. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, % pound white flour, 4 ounces butter, %, pound 
unsweetened chocolate, % pound sugar, % pound almonds and 5 
eggs. 

Boil the chocolate with the butter and flour; take off, add the 
almonds, sugar, yolks of the eggs and finally the stiff-beaten whites. 
Put all in a form which has been greased with butter, and sprinkle 
with grated zwieback and bake for 1 hour. Serve with vanilla 
sauce. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

Two pounds stale white bread or zwieback, 1 quart of milk, %, 
pound butter, 8 or 10 eggs, 6 or 8 ounces sugar, fruit (such as sour 
apples or cherries), lemon peel, lemon juice to taste and y^ pound 
dried currants. 



248 NATURE CURE 

Cut the bread in small pieces without the crust, mix with the butter 
and milk and stir in a pan on the stove till it comes from the sides 
of the pan. Let cool; add all the other ingredients and lastly the 
stiff-beaten whites of the eggs. Put a layer of the batter in a pan, 
spread a layer of fruit over this and then a layer of the batter, etc., 
until all the ingredients are used, ending with the batter on top. 
Cook for 2 hours. For 12 or 14 persons. 

MACAROON PUDDING. 

Cut the macaroons in pieces and put in a pudding mold which has 
been well greased; then strew in washed, soaked seedless raisins; pour 
over all 4 or 5 well-beaten eggs with 3 pints of milk, 2 ounces of 
sugar and bake or boil 1 hour. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

One-quarter pound white corn-meal, 2 ounces butter, 4 ounces 
sugar, 3 pints of milk, 5 eggs and 3 oranges. 

Let the butter and milk come to a boil; stir into it the meal and 
cook till done. Take off and let it cool, then add sugar, the yolks of 
the eggs, the juice and grated peel of I orange. Peel the other 2 
oranges and lay the sections on the bottom of a well-greased pan. 
Cover all with the batter and bake for % of an hour. 

GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 

One-half pound green gooseberries, % pound sugar, % pound 
grated white bread or zwieback, 6 ounces butter, C or 8 eggs, 3 pints of 
milk. 

Boil the gooseberries with half the sugar and a little water till 
done; take off and let it stand a day, then toast the bread in the 
butter to a light brown; add the milk and boil together till stiff; 
after it is cool add the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, the rest of the 
sugar and the gooseberries without the juice, and finally the stiff- 
beaten whites. Put all in a well-greased mold or china dish and 
bake 1 hour. Serve with the juice of the gooseberries. 



HYGIENIC COOKING 249 

NUT PUDDING. 

Thirty fresh peanuts or walnuts grated without being blanched; 
then add 6 ounces of bread or zwieback soaked in milk and drained; 
cream the butter with the yolks of the eggs, sugar and % cup of 
sweet cream. Mix all thoroughly together, adding then the well- 
beaten whites of the eggs, and bake in a greased pudding dish for 1 
hour and serve with foam sauce. For 8 or 10 persons. 

SOUR CREAM PUDDING. 

Take 1 quart of sour cream, 6 or 8 eggs, 3 or 4 spoonfuls of flour, 
sugar, vanilla and a little salt. Beat the cream well, then add the 
other ingredients, and finally the stiff-beaten whites of the eggs, and 
bake for 45 minutes. For 6 or 8 persons. 

PECAN PUDDING. 

Beat 1 tablespoonful of butter to a cream ; add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, 3 ounces stale white bread (soaked in water and drained), 
yolks of 6 eggs and 30 or 40 grated pecan nuts; finally, stir in the 
stiff-beaten whites of the eggs and bake the pudding for 1 hour in a 
well-greased mold. Serve with fruit juice. 



COLD PUDDINGS AND CREAMS. 



RED GRITS. 

Take 1 pint of raspberry juice, I pint of water, 3 ounces grits or 
sago and sugar to taste. 

Cook the sugar and juice together till done, but not too stiff; then 
wet a china dish with cold water and pour all into it. When cold, 
turn out into a large plate and serve with vanilla cream and sugar 
well beaten together. 



250 NATURE CUBE 

RICE CREAM. 

Boil 14 pound best rice in 1 quart of sweet cream with grated 
peel of % lemon. Beat 14 pound of sugar with the juice of 3 lemons, 
boil till stiff and stir into the cooked rice (take off from the fire) ; 
Boak 1 ounce red gelatine in warm water and add it to the other 
ingredients. Arrange this with canned or fine cooked fruit in a dish 
in layers. Let it cool till stiff, then turn out on a platter and garnish 
with fruits. 

RED FLAMMERY. 

Five cups of sweet milk, 3 ounces of sugar, 3 ounces of bitter 
almonds and 3 ounces of sweet almonds grated, a little vanilla or 
lemon peel and 1 ounce of red gelatine. 

Boil the first four ingredients together; add the gelatine, which has 
been soaked in warm water; rinse a dish out with cold water without 
drying it, and pour all into it to get cold. Serve with fruit juice. 

LEMON CREAM. 

Bring % of a quart of water with 6 ounces of sugar to a boil ; add 
grated peel of 1 lemon, juice of 3 lemons, yolks of 6 eggs, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of corn-starch dissolved in water, and boil till done, stirring 
constantly. Take off and let it cool, then mix with the stiff-beaten 
whites of the eggs; put in a dish to get cold; turn out and serve 
with fruit juice. For 10 persons. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Six ounces sweet chocolate, 6 eggs, 4 ounces sugar, a little vanilla 
and % ounce gelatine. 

Melt the chocolate over the fire in a little water; take off and add 
to it, while stirring, the sugar and vanilla, and then the yolks of the 
eggs; beat all together well, put back on the fire and let cook till it 
comes to a boil ; then set aside and add the gelatine dissolved in water 
and the stiff-beaten whites of the eggs. Put it in a china dish wet 
with cold water. When ready to serve turn out and serve with beaten 
sweet cream. 



HYGIENIC COOKING 261 

CREAM WITH ALMONDS. 

One pint of good fresh cream, 2 ounces finely grated almonds, % 
pound sugar. 

Cook all 15 minutes and let cool, then beat 4 eggs and the yolks 
of 3 eggs into it. Pour this mixture into custard cups and set them in 
hot water to thicken. If to be served cold set on ice. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI. 

Cover the bottom of a large glass dish with macaroons and lady- 
fingers; pour over this fruit juice and unfermented grape juice to 
taste, and let soak 1 hour. Meanv^hile let come to a boil 1 tablespoon- 
ful of butter, to which add 3 pints of milk and the yolks of 5 large 
eggs; add sugar and vanilla to taste; stir till thick, but do not let it 
come to a boil; take off, let it cool and pour over the cakes in the 
dish. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, sweeten with sugar and fruit 
jelly and spread on top. 

CREAM OE CORN-STARCH. 

One and one-eighth quarts of water, i/4 pound of sugar, % pound 
corn-starch or corn-meal, juice of 3 lemons and grated peel of 1. 

Let the lemon juice, peel, sugar and half of the water come to a boil. 
Mix the corn-starch in the other half of the. water and add to the 
other ingredients; boil for 10 minutes. Serve with any kind of fruit 
sauce. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

Beat 1 quart of sweet cream, juice of 6 or 8 oranges and % pound 
of sugar. Beat all well together, then add 1 ounce of dissolved gela- 
tine and serve in a glass dish. 

GOOSEBERRY DISH. 

One quart of green gooseberries, cleaned and washed; boil them 
with 1 quart of water till done; stir through a sieve, and sweeten. 
Put on the fire and stir into it % pound of rice flovir, which is mixed 
with the gooseberry juice. Let it boil for awhile, stirring all the 
time; then pour into a dish wet with cold water and serve with 
sweet cream. 



252 NATURE CURE 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Soak % pound sago in hot water; pour off the water and add % 
pint of raspberry and % pint of currant juice, with sugar and lemon 
juice to taste; boil till stiff, being careful not to let burn. Serve 
with cream or milk. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Two pounds ripe strawberries, i/& pound of sugar, whites of 6 eggs, 
1 glass of cider or unfermented grape juice. 

Wash the berries well, pour the water off of them and then stir 
through a sieve. Boil the grape juice with the sugar; add the fruit 
and a tablespoonful of corn-starch; stir frequently till it comes to a 
boil again; take off, beat the whites of the eggs stiff and stir into the 
fruit. Serve garnished with fine ripe strawberries. 

DELICIOUS FRUIT DISH. 

Cut 2 bananas in fine lengthwise slices and lay them in a glass dish, 
upon this a layer of a ripe pineapple cut in small pieces, and then a 
layer of sliced oranges; pour sugar and a little water over and con- 
tinue these layers of bananas, oranges and pineapples till the dish is 
full. If canned pineapple is used, take the juice instead of the water. 
Put on ice. A delicious desert for hot days. 

RASPBERRY FOAM. 

Beat the whites of 5 eggs very stiff and stir into it 3 tablespoonfuls 
of raspberry jelly and V2 tablespoonful of sugar. Serve in glasses. 

APPLE CREAM. 

Cook one soup-plate of sliced apples in plenty of sugar; cover the 
bottom of a glass dish with them; over this put a layer of biscuit 
cakes 2 inches deep. Meanwhile let 1 quart of milk come to a boil 
with a little vanilla, into which pour a tablespoonful of corn-starch 
dissolved in a little milk; boil, stirring all the while. Finally, add 
the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs and pour over the apples and biscuits. 
After it is cool, add the beaten whites and garnish with jelly. 



HYGIENIC COOKINO 253 

VANILLA CREAM. 

Five pints of milk, 6 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of corn-starch, sugar 
to taste and add a little vanilla. 

Put all together in a clean cooking vessel over the fire and 
just before it comes to a boil take off, beat a little and put in a 
glass dish. Serve with fruit juice. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Take 3 pints of water, the juice of 6 or 8 lemons, 5 ounces of 
sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch or best flour dissolved in a 
little of the water, yolks of 6 eggs well beaten, the grated peel of 1 
lemon; boil all together till stiflf, take off, and when done add the 
whites of the eggs beaten stiflf, and serve with sweet milk and sweet 
crackers, or garnished with fruit jelly. 

Instead of 6 or 8 lemons, take % bottle of unfermented grape juice 
and the juice of 2 lemons. In case one does not wish to use the grape 
juice and the 6 or 8 lemons, these may be omittted, using all the 
other ingredients, and finally mixing 3 tablespoonfuls of currant or 
raspberry jelly, to give a pretty color and taste. 

PUECKLER ICE CREAM. 

Whip cream till it is stiflf and sweeten as for ice cream. Divide 
this in thirds; flavor the first third with vanilla; the second color 
pink with raspberry juice and the third color with chocolate, first 
having dissolved the chocolate in a very little milk. Mix into each 
part a few macaroons. 

Put in an ice-cream freezer in layers; do not turn nor stir; let it 
stand a day or longer, if necessary, to freeze, keeping covered 
■with ice. 



..4-X 



254 NATURE CUBE 

DRINKS. 



ALMOND MILK. 

Take half a eup of blanched almonds, grate them in a nut grater, 
pour a cup of cold water over them and let draw 10 minutea; then 
squeeze through a clean cloth and give to the patient. It must be 
made fresh every time, as it sours easily. 

Almond milk is of the greatest help in questions of nourishment for 
the patient, because it contains the greatest amount of nourishment 
in the smallest form, and with the least work to the digestive organs. 
Therefore we give it in all diseases of the digestive organs, feverish 
diseases and to weak persons, with the best results. 

CARAMEL CEREAL COFFEE. 

Take 2 large cups of this coflfee and 10 cups of cold water; bring 
to a boil for 15 minutea. 

DR. LAHMANN'S NAEHRSALZ COCOA. 

Take for each cup of water 1 teaspoonful of cocoa, 1 teaspoonful of 
sugar and 1 teaspoonful of corn-starch for every 5 cups. 

SOUR MILK. 

Put fresh milk into a stone pot, let stand for 1 or 2 days in a 
room at about 60° F. The skin on top must be light yellow and 
shiny ; before serving stir in cream with the milk well. Put on ice- in 
summer and serve in glasses. 

RASPBERRY LEMONADE. 
Two quarts of water mixed well with 2 cupfuls of raspberry juice. 

LEMONADE. 

Take juice of 1 lemon, add 2 tablespoonfula of sugar and 2 cups of 
water. 



I Accession no. 31751 




X 



■j>*t 






, ♦ 



«>«-.-''ft«C*.X!^.^-, 



Mb 



