WBA J45h 1898 



8004287 





RETURN TO 
NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE 
BEFORE LAST DATE SHOWN 




iRARY Of mEOIC 



GUARDIAN ANGEL. 



THE 

Household Guide 

OR 

Domestic Cyclopedia. 



A PRACTICAL FAMILY PHYSICIAN. HOME REMEDIES 
AND HOME TREATMENT ON 
ALL DISEASES. 

Ao Instructor on Nursing, Housekeeping and 
Home Adornments. 

BT 

PROr. B. G. JEFFERIS. M. D.. Ph. D.. 

AND 

J. L. NICHOLS. A. M. 



ALSO 

A COMPLETE COOK BOOK 

BT 

MM. J. L. NICHOLS. 



TUBNTIBTH BDITION. 



PUBLISHED BY 

J. L. NICHOLS & CO. 

▲«l«m*, Oa. iPoreato, Om.t. 

MAp*rville. 111. 

UM eniv by Subtcrtptfoi. 

1898 




THE GOOD SAMARITAN. 



Health and the simplest fare. If thou hast these. 
Accompanied with one single steadfast friend — 
A conscience which thou dost not fear to bear 
To the Great Searcher s eye — and that strong hope 
Whose wing ne'er tires, e'en o'er the yawning grave. 
Go thou thy way ; thou art an emperor, — 
Bearing thy crown e'er with thee ; go thy way 
And thank thy God, who hath bestowed on thee 
The gold which monarchs count, but oft in vain. 



Copyright, 1897, by J. L, Nichols & Go. 

Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1892, 
By J. L. Nichols, 
In the ofiSee of the Librarian of Congress, at Waehington, D. C. 

All Sights Bbsbbved. 

■AYiOii^l LlfBAAY OF 

mmmi. 

8608 Pltl \ 

BETHESDA, (MARYLAND 20014 



PUBLISHER'S PREFACE. 



_ The object of this volume is, to instruct every housekeeper 
in economjr in household affairs and in the use and appU- 
cation of simple domestic remedies. It may be properly 
called a book of Self Instruction in the art of home doctoring. 
This work has been especially written to benefit and bless 
suffering humanity everywhere. The language is simple, 
and technical terms have been carefully omitted, and the 
book itself makes up a complete series of Home Lessons in 
Medicine, which can be read and understood by all classes. 
There has been rapid progress in the science of medicine in 
the past few years. Old methods and old receipts have been 
replaced by new remedies and new methods of application. 
So it is especially necessary in these times of progress, to 
have a book which is up to date and abreast of tne times. 

There are many plants on every farm, in every garden 
and there are many simple remedies in every home, and 
other harmless remedies, which can be easily secured, which 
will relieve pain and cure disease. Simple home remedies 
and good nursing in ordinary cases, will do more good and 
give qiiicker relief than the best practicing physician can 
■with his strong drugs and periodical visits. The most skill- 
ful physician can benefit the patient but little without good 
care and careful nursing in the home. Consequently nursing 
and caring for the sick is a prominent feature in this work. 

This book seems to fill a long-felt want. There have been 
many books published on medicine, and placed in the hands 
of the inexperienced homekeepers, but they are not safe 
guides for anyone to follow, who is unskilled in the art of 
compounding medicine. Strong drugs are dangerous and 
their use in the Household Guide is largely discouraged, for 
they are not safe in the hands of the common people with- 
out the direction of a physician. In serious cases of sickness 
the family physician should always be summoned, but 
remember that nine-tenths of the ills that afflict mankind 
can be cured by careful nursing and the application of simple 
and safe home remedies, and those who secure the House- 
hold Guide, will find it ever helpful in giving good counsel 
Uj sickness and a safe guide in health. 



J. L. NICHOLS. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



BOOK I. 
Home and Home influences. 

Home 22 

Woman, Her Power, Qualities 25 

The Angel of the Home 25 

A Successful Life 26 

Mother 20 

The Art of Happy Living 27 

Health. 

Sunshine and Health 29 

Healthy Homes 32 

Pure Air 33 

Evils of Window Ventilation 34 

How to Keep Well 37 

Deep Breathing 38 

Evils of Over-eating 40 

Time for Digestion 44 

Hints for all Kinds of People 44 

Tea and Coffee, Why Do We Drink It 45 

Conditions of Health 46 

Occupations 47 

Wisdom and Beauty in Rest 49 

Laughter, A Great Tonic 50 

A Cure for the Blues 5' 

Charity, Happiness and Length of Days 52 

Sleep 53 

Bicycle Exercise 55 

Be Good to Yourself 56 

As I Grow Old 56 

Why People Die Before Their Time 57 

Cleanliness 60 

Bathing 63 

Health in Vepetahles and Fruits. 71 

Practical Health Rules 73 

Disease 74 

How to Tell Contagious Diseases 75 

The Wonderful Revelation of the Microscope.. 76 

How Microbes or Bacteria Attack the Body. .. 77 

xi 



xii Table of Contents. 

How to Destroy Microbes, etc 78 

Disinfectants 79 

Sanitation About the Home 8i 

Disease Germs in Drinking Water 84 

Condition of Wells 85 

Animals We Drink in Our Water 86 

Malaria and Water 87 

Accidents and Emergencies, How to Stop 

Bleeding • ?8 

Poisoning, etc 92 

Foreign Bodies in Ear, Nose, and Throat 93 

Choking, Sunstroke, Coal Gas Suffocation 94 

Bums 95 

Broken Bones 96 

Drowning, Snake Bites 97 

Hydrophobia 98 

Gas in Well 99 

Poultices, Benefit of, and How to Make Them. . 100 

How to Make all Kinds of Bandages 103 

Boils, Sprains, Felon 104 

Home Remedies and How to Use Them 107 

Properties of Salt 108 

The Useful Onion 109 

Wood Sage, Parsley, Slippery Elm, Red Clover, no 
Gum Arabic, Horehound, American Golden 

Rod, Borax ill 

Turpentine, Facts About Eggs 112 

How to Gather and Prepare Medical Plants 

and Barks 113 

American Poplar, Glycerine 113 

Blackberry, Burdock, Garlic, Black Elder, Cam- 
phor 114 

Cayenne Pepper, Catnip, Cinnamon, Dandelion. 115 

Alum, Boneset 116 

Dogwood, Ginger, Hops 117 

Flax Seed, Horseradish, Juniper, Lemon Juice. 118 

Olive Oil, Kerosene 119 

Lime, Lobelia, Magnesia, Mustard, Rhubarb. . 120 
Pennyroyal, Mandrake, Oakbark, Peach Tree 

Bark 121 

Peppermint, Goosegrease, Senna, Sassafras, Sul- 
phur 122 

Sweet Flag, Common Baking Soda, Wild 

Cherry, Willow 12-^ 

Sage, Saltpetre, Red Pepper 124 



Table of Contents. xiii 

Home Remedies and Home Treatment for All Di- 
seases 125 

Colic in Adults 125 

Cramps and Cramp Colic, Colic in Children... 126 
To Cure Cramps in the Legs, How to Cure 

Night-Mare 126 

Sleeplessness, Home Remedies 127 

How to Check Vomiting 128 

Neuralgia 129 

Remedies for Neuralgia 130 

Headache, Cause and Cure 131 

Home Treatment for Diarrhea 134 

A Sure Cure for Diarrhea 135 

Pleurisy I35 

Asthma 136 

Lung Fever or Pneumonia 137 

How to Ascertain the State of the Lungs 138 

How to Nurse Typhoid Fever 139 

Typhoid Fever, Malaria 140 

Coughs and Colds 141 

Remedy for Sore Throat 146 

Incontinence of Urine, Diabetes 147 

Gravel, Bright's Disease 148 

Dyspepsia, Egyptian Dyspepsia Cure 149 

Jaundice, Bilious Attacks ISI 

A Stomach's Plea 152 

Constipation 152 

Rheumatism I55 

Nervousness 156 

Erysipelas and Cancer, Eczema i57 

Vaccination, Remedy for Small Pox, Heartburn 158 

Saving the Eyes IS9 

How to Doctor Sore Eyes 160 

How to Cure the Grippe, Dysentery 161 

Frost Bites and Injuries from Rusty Nails.... 162 
How to Cure Apoplexy, Bad Breath and Quinsy 163 
How to Cure Piles, Cholera Morbus, Night 

Sweats 164 

How to Cure the Itch 165 

How to Cure Dyspepsia and Weak Lungs 166 

A Palatable Laxative 167 

How to Make all Kinds of Ointments, Liniments, and 

Salves 168 

Uses of Hot Water I73 

Brief History of Medicine 176 



xiv 



Table of Contents. 



Chinese Doctors ^77 

Medicines, Amount for a Dose IT© 

How to Give Homeopathic Medicines 179 

Homeopathic Remedies for More than One Hun- 

dred Diseases l8o 

Effects of Alcohol and Cigarette Smoking i86 

Massage I?* 

Sick Room Hints. 

Helps for the Sick Room 201 

An Easy Bed Hammock for the Sick 203 

Rules for Home Nursing 204 

Feeding the Sick 3o6 

Care and Feeding of Infants 210 

A Well Cared-for Baby 211 

Feeding Infants 213 

Infantile Convulsions 213 

Warning to Mothers 215 

How to Preserve the Health and Life of In- 
fants During Hot Weather ai6 

How to Keep a Baby Well 231 

Developing Healthy Children 233 

Bottle Feeding 235 

The Perils of Teething 226 

How to Make Children Healthy, Vigorous and 

Beautiful 227 

Home Treatment for Diseases of Children 329 

An Ailing Child 230 

Little Mischief 231 

Nervous Children 23a 

Hiccough 232 

Lard and Salt 233 

Colic, Stomach and Bowel Trouble 234 

How to Treat Croup 235 

Worms 237 

Constipation, Cheerfulness and Health 338 

Diphtheria and Scarlet Fever 238 

Scarlet Fever 339 

Home Treatment of Diphtheria 240 

Measles and Chicken-pox 241 

Whooping Cough 242 

Mumps 2AX 



Table of Contents. xv 
BOOK II. 

Figure, Form and Beauty 245 

Natural Beauty 246 

Preserving the Figure 247 

A ijymnasium Director's Advice 248 

Cure for Round Shoulders 249 

Beauty 250 

To Acquire a Beautiful Form 252 

Cosmetics and Cheerfulness 254 

Physical Culture 254 

Take Life as it Comes 256 

Practical Hints on Complexion 256 

Skin Troubles 257 

How to Obtain and Preserve a Beautiful Com- 
plexion 259 

Cures for Sunburn 260 

How to Remove Freckles, Blackheads, etc 261 

How to Remove Pimples and Wrinkles 262 

Toilet Hints 263 

How to Take Care of the Teeth 265 

Cleaning the Teeth 266 

How to Keep the Teeth White, Tooth Powder. 268 
How to Take Care of the Hands, Chapped 

Hands 269 

Warts, Moles 270 

Cosmetics 271 

How Ladies Should Dress 274 

Hair Dressing 275 

Styles of Wearing the Hair 276 

Structure of the Hair 278 

Falling Out of the Hair 279 

How to Care for the Hair 280 

Glossiness 281 

Dandruff 281 

Hair Oil 281 

Dyeing, Gray Hairs, Waving the Hair, Hair 

Brushes 282 

Hair Tonics, Shampoos, etc 283 

Hints on Shaving 286 

How to Cure Corns, Chilblains, Ingrowing 

Nails 289 

How to Cure Bunions 290 

Effects of Wearing Tight Shoes 291 

Pointers About Footwear, 392 



xvi 



Table of Contents. 



Etiquette. 

Hints and Helps on Good Behavior 293 

Practical Rules 296 

Etiquette in Speech 299 

Etiquette of Dress and Habits 300 

Etiquette on the Street 301 

Etiquette of Calls 302 

Practical Rules on Table Manners 303 

Social Duties 305 

Politeness 309 

Invitations. 

How to Write Invitations, Forms 312 

Amusements 318 

How to Amuse Children 319 

Ring Games and Frolics for Children's Parties. 321 

Children's March 323 

Quotation Hunt 324 

Distinguished Guests 324 

Cross Questions and Crooked Answers 325 

Placing Water in a Drinking Glass Upside 

Down 326 

Guessing 326 



BOOK III. 

The Housekeeper 328 

A Model Housewife 329 

How to Manage to be Happy 329 

Good Rules for the Mistress 332 

Good Rules for the Servant 333 

The Servant Question 334 

Home Adornments 337 

Wall Decorations 338 

Furniture, Sitting Room, Bed Room, Kitchen.. 339 

Pot-pourri of Roses 341 

Rustic Flower Stand 342 

Sewing Box 342 

Decorating with Natural Objects!!!!!!!'.!*.!.!. 343 

The Hygiene of the Bed Room 345 

Bed and Bedding 

Airing Sleeping Rooms !.!! ^ 

Home Mad? Mattresses ,,,, 3^ 



Table of Contents. 



xvii 



The Dining Room 

Kitclien Utensils 251 

Household Measures and Weights 354 

Household Hints 356 

Soda and Charcoal 357 

Lamps and Their Care 358 

Cleaning a Stove 359 

How to Keep Stoves from Rusting 359 

Family Receipts 361 

Scientific Method of Removing Stains 362 

Removing Stains of all Kinds 363 

Uses of Borax 366 

How to Clean Brass, Silver, Copper 368 

How to Polish Nickel-plate 369 

How to Remove Rust from Knives 369 

How to Remove Stains from Furniture 370 

Furniture Polish 371 

Staining a Floor 372 

Hard Wood Floors 372 

How to Break a String 373 

How to Make Permanent White Wash 374 

How to Purify Sinks and Drains 374 

How to Make a Perfect Hole in a Piece of Glass 374 

How to Remove a Glass Stopper 375 

How to Remove Fly Spots, How to Prepare 

Kalsomine 375 

How to Clean Carpets, Matting, etc 376 

Suggestion for Sweeping Day, Sponging Car- 
pets 377 

Practical Rules for Builders 378 

To Prevent Rust on Iron 379 

To Polish Nickel-plate, Zinc, and Clean Rusty 

Steel 379 

Cider Vinegar 380 

Vinegar for Piakles 380 

How to Make Vinegar without Fruit 381 

How to Raise Canaries 382 

How to Keep Flowers Fresh 383 

How to Enlarge Portraits and Pictures 384 

How to Take Measures for Patterns 385 

How to Measure for Suit of Clothes 386 

To Clean Neckties, Laces and Ribbons 387 

How to Dye all Kinds of Cloth 388 

2 



xviii Table of Contents. 

How to Mix Paints 380 \ 

How to Tan Hides with Hair On Jpo k 

How to Make all Kinds of Glue 391 \ 

Cheap and Beautiful Ink 392 j 

Inkg of all Kinds 393 \ 

Blacking, Oil and Dressing for Boots 394 i 

Mucilage for Home and Business Use 395 j 

How to Improve Leather 396 j 

To Clean Statuary and Marble 397 ' 

How to Remove Ink Stains 397 ' 

Reading the Paper 398 i 

BOOK IV. j 

Complete Cook Book , 399 \ 

The Art of Cooking 400 

Hints for the Cook 401 

Hints on Seasoning 402 ' 

Golden Rules for the Kitchen 403 \ 

Advice to Cooks 404 j 

Meats, Cooking, Frying, Roasting, Broiling, etc 404 ; 

How to Make Meats Tender 407 

Stuffed Beef Heart, Ham Cakes 408 1 

How to Pickle Beef, Ham and Tongue 409 \ 

How to Pack Pork 409 i 

Sausages 1 410 1 

Roasted Turkey 410 \ 

Smothered and Fricasseed Chicken 411 j 

Deviled Turkey 411 1 

How to Cook all Kinds of Poultry 412 

How to Carve Turkey, Duck, Chicken 413 j 

Stewed Chicken and Dumplings 414 \ 

How to Prepare and Cook all Kinds of Fish.. 415 

How to Use Canned Salmon 415 

Oysters, Soup, Patties, etc 416 • 

How to Make all Kinds of Omelets 418 ' 

New Egg Dishes 420 

New Dishes of Rice 421 

Potatoes 422 : 

Delicious Dishes of Sweet Potatoes 424 I 

Vegetable Soup ^5 

Novel Vegetable Dishes 426 

New Ways for Cooking Corn 427 j 

How to Make all Kinds of Catsups, Pickles, ' 

Salads, etc ' 429 | 

i 

^ 
] 



Table of Contents. xix 

Coffee, a Good Cup of Tea 433 

Prize Bread Receipt 434 

Breakfast Breads and Cakes 434 

How to Make all Kinds of Cakes 437 

How to Make all Kinds of Frostings 447 

How to A'lake all Kinds of Cookies 4So 

Pies and Tarts 453 

How to Make all Kinds of Puddings 455 

How to Make all Kinds of Pudding Sauces.... 464 

How to Make Frozen or Other Desserts 465 

How to Can all Kinds of Fruit 467 

How to Make Jellies 469 

How to Make Jams 471 

How to Make all Kinds of Preserves 472 

How to Make Drinks for the Sick 474 

How to Cook all Kinds of Relishes for the Sick 477 

Bills of T^are 483 

Cold Dinners 485 

How to Make Your Own Candies ^86 

BOOK V. 

In the Laundry 491 

How to Make Hard Soap 492 

How to Polish Shirt Bosoms 492 

The Washing of Flannels 493 

How Table Linen Should be Laundered 494 

Silk Handkercheifs, Silk Socks 495 

How to Whiten Clothes 496 

How to Destroy House Insects 497 

Fleas 497 

Carpet Bugs 498 

Clothes Moths 499 

Common Moth 500 

To Keep Furs from Moths 501 

To Get Rid of Bed Bugs 502 

Book Moths 503 

Remedies for Destroying Mosquitoes and Flies. 504 

Cure for Wasp Stings 504 

Trapping Ants 505 

Destroying Ants in House and Lawn 506 

How to Get Rid of Rats 507 

Novel but Sure Remedy for Extermination of 
Mice S08 



XX Table of Contents. 

Yard and Garden. 

Worms on Rose Bushes 509 

Flow«r-beds and Lawns, Flower Gardens 509 

Sweet Peas 5 10 

Cabbage Worms 5ii 

Worms on Gooseberry and Currant Bushes ... 512 
Plant Lice 512 

Poultry 513 

Practical Rules for Keeping Poultry 513 

Chicken Cholera, Asthma, Loss of Feathers, 

Gapes 515 

To Destroy Lice S16 

To Pickle Eggs Si7 

What to Feed 5i9 

Poultry Pointers SIQ 

A Complete Medical Dictionary 522 



BOOK I. 




HOME AND HOME INFLUENCES. 

HEALTH AND HAPPINESS. 

DISEASE AND DISEASE GERMS. 

DISINFECTANTS AND SANITATION. 

A THOUSAND HOME REMEDIES FOR 
DISEASES. 

MEDICINES AND MEDICAL TREATMENT. 

EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO. 

MASSAGE. 

SICK ROOM HINTS. 

TREATMENT OF INFANTS AND CHIL- 
DREN. 

21 



22 



Home. 




1. The Sublimest Moment in a Yonng Man's Life.— The 

sublimest moment in a young man's life is when he can take 
his newly-wed wife by the hand and lead her under his own 
roof and say to her, " This is our home." Married life, 
with the comfort of children, weaves threads of golden joy 
into the cares and toils of life. No pleasures, no enjoyment 
can excel the comforts and contentment of a happy home. 

2. Homel What a Hallowed Name.— How full of en- 
chantment and how dear to the heart ! Home is the magic 



Home. 



circle within which the weary spirit finds refugee ; it is the 
sacred asylum to which the care-worn heart retreats to find 
rest from the toils and inquietudes of life. 

3. What is Home 2— Ask the lone wanderer as he plods 
his tedious way, bent with the weight of age, and white with 
the frost of years, ask him, what is home ? He will tell you, 
"it is a green spot in memory ; an oasis in the desert ; a cen- 
ter about which the fondest recollections of his grief-op- 

f)ressed heart cling with all the tenacity of youth's first 
ove. It was once a glorious, a happy reality, but now it 
rests only as an image of the mind." 

4. Tender Associations. — Home ! that name touches ev- 
ery fiber of the soul, and strikes every chord of the human 
heart with its angelic fingers. Nothing but death can break 
the spell. What tender associations are linked with home ! 
What pleasing images and deep emotions it awakens ! It 
calls up the fondest memories of life and opens in our 
nature the purest, deepest, richest gush of consecrated 
thought and feeling. Next to religion, the deepest and 
most ineradicable sentiment in the human soul is that of 
home affections. Every heart vibrates to this theme. 

5. Stronger than Death. — Home has an influence which 
is stronger than death. It is a law to our hearts, and binds 
us with a spell which neither time nor change can break ; 
the darkest villainies which have disgraced humanity can- 
not neutralize it. Gray-haired and demon guilt will make 
his dismal cell the sacred urn of tears wept over the mem- 
ories of home, and thfese will soften and melt into tears of 
penitence even the heart of adamant. 

6. Home of My Childhood I— What words fall upon tht 
ear with so much music in their cadence as those which re- 
call the scenes of innocent and happy childhood, now num- 
bered with the memories of the past ! How fond recollec- 
tion delights to dwell upon the events which marked our 
early pathway, when the unbroken home circle presented a 
scene of loveliness vainly sought but in the bosom of a 
happy family ! Intervening years have not dimmed tht 
vivid coloring with which memory has adorned those joy- 
ous hours of youthful innocence. 

7. Peace at Home. — Peace at home, that is the boon. 
" He is happiest, be he king or peasant, who finds peace in 
his home. * Home should be made so truly home that 
the weary tempted heart could turn toward it anywhere on 
the dusty highway of life and receive light and strength; 
should be the sacred refuge of our lives, whether rich or poor. 
The ties that bind the wealthy and the proud to home may 



24 



Home. 



be forged on earth, but those which link the poor man to 
his humble hearth are of true metal and bear the stamp 
of heaven. 

8. Husband and Wife.— There is nothing in the 
world which is so venerable as the character of parents; 
nothing so intimate and endearing as the relation of hus- 
band and wife; nothing so tender as that of children; noth- 
ing so lovely as those brothers and sisters. The little cirr 
cle is made one by a singular union of the affections. The 
only fountain in the wilderness of life, where man drinks 
of water totally unmixed with bitter ingredients, is that 
which gushes for him in the calm and shady recess of do- 
mestic life. 




CLIFF DWELLERS. 

THE FIRST INHABITANTS OF EARTH. 



^ Pleasure. — Pleasure may heat the heart with arti- 
ficial excitement, ambition may delude it with golden 
dreams, war may eradicate its fine fibres and diminish its 
sensitiveness, but it is only domestic love that can render 
it truly happy ! 

10. Home. — Let thrones rot and empires wither. 
Home I Let the world die in earthquake struggles, and be 
buried amid procession of planets and dirge of spheres. 
Home! Let everlasting ages roll in irresistible sweep. 
Home! No sorrow, no crying, no tears, no death; 
but home! Sweet home! Beautiful home! Glorious home! 
Everlasting home! Home with each other! Home with 
angels! Home with God! Home, home! Through the 
rich grace of our Redeemer, may we all reach it. 



Woman. 



25 



WOMAN. 

The organization of the home depends, for the most 
part, upon woman. She is the queen of domestic life. 
The management of the home necessarily depends upon 
her. Her character, her temper, her power of organiza- 
tion, her business management is what brings comfort 
and happiness to the home. 

Her Power. — It is generally in woman's power to 
make home a true home, where comfort and happiness 
are supreme. True, men whose nobler powers are blunted 
and whose appetites are in control may be able to defeat 
much of woman's work. And yet where there is any man- 
hood left, there will be something at least to recognize 
and encourage the work of the faithful housewife. Men 
are only apparently leaders. Close scrutiny will generally 
reveal a woman's power, a woman's encouragement, a 
woman's love behind them. In her hands rests the power 
to uplift man from moral degradation. 

"They say that man is mighty. 
He governs land and sea. 

He wields a mighty sceptre, 
O'er lesser powers that be; 

But a mightier power and stronger 
Man from his throne has hurled, 

And the hand that rocks the cradle 
Is the hand that rules the world." 
Qnalities. — First among woman's qualities Is the in- 
telligent use of her hands and fingers. The tidy, handy, 
managing woman, at whose fingers' ends are wisdom and 
virtue, is indispensable to the comfort of a household. 
Then, again, the successful housewife is a woman of 
method. Without method in the household, confusion, 
disorder, and discontent must hold sway. Method and 
punctuality in the home disperse many clouds of grum- 
blings and put to flight a host of little nuisances that tend 
to make the home unhappy. Punctuality in preparing 
breakfast and dinner and in everything that tends to add 
to the comfort of the home is essential to the happiness 
of the home. To these qualities add a becoming taste in 
little things that gives to the humblest home beauty and 
elegance, and a model home can be found even where 
poverty exists. 

The Angel of the Home.— She does not make any fuss 
about it, nor ask to have a reporter at lier elbow. But 
her sunny heart of self-forgetting love will not let her 



96 



Woman. 



hands be at rest while there is any bit of helpful service 
she can render. If she can, without observation, slip 
the burnt roll or undercrust on her plate, it is done. If 
some one must stay at home when there is a day's outing, 
she tells, with music in every tone, how glad she will be 
to be left quietly behind and have time all to herself 
to do ever so many things she has in mind. And none 
suspect from word or tone how great the sacrifice to give 
up the pleasure. 

Her quick eye detects the oversight or neglect on the 
part of another, and she quickly hastens to remedy the 
matter, careful that none shall know her hand has made 
up another's ilure. Is a harsh round of judgment started 
by some ill-advised criticism, she deftly and tenderly drops 
the gentlest, the sweetest possible word for the criticised 
one, and switches the conversation to other topics. 

Do we not all recognize this "angel"? We call her 
mother, wife, sister. In the glory-land they will call 
her saint. 

A Successful Life is nothing more nor less for man 
or for woman than living as well as we know how and 
doing the very best that we can. Success cannot be 
measured by fame, wealth or station. The life of the 
humblest woman in the land, if well lived, is as successful 
as is that of the woman, who, with greater opportunities, 
is enabled to make the results of her works reach farther. 
Some of us must live for the few, as others again must 
live for the many. But both lives are successful. Each 
of us in this world influences some other being, and it 
is the quality of our influence, and not the number we 
influence, which makes our lives successful in the eyes 
of God. We may believe that we go to our graves un- 
known and unsung, but not one of us goes out from this 
world without leaving an impression, either for the good 
or the bad. And the kind of impression we make while 
we live, and leave when we die, is the difference between 
successful and unsuccessful living. 

MOTHER. 

To her care have been intrusted 

All the heroes of all lands; 

Still the fate of church and nation 

Holds she in her slender hands, 

Guiding willful feet and faltering 

On through childhood's happy years. 

On through youth with its temptations, 



Art of Happy Living. 



27 



With its hopes, its doubts, its fears; 
Cultivating all that's noble, 
Gently chiding all that's wrong, 
Till her children gather round her, 
Men and women, pure and strong. 
By the quiet ministrations. 
In the little realm of home. 
For the structure of the ages. 
She hath laid the corner-stone. 

THIS SWEET LITTLE WOMAN 0' MINE. 

She ain't any bit of a angel — 
This sweet little woman o' mine; 

She's jest a plain woman, 

An' purty much human — 

This sweet little woman o' mine. 

Fer what would I do with a angel 
When I looked fer the firelight's shine? 

When six little sinners 

Air wantin' their dinners? 
No! Give me this woman o' mine! 

Tve hearn lots o' women called "angels," 
An' lots o' 'em thought it wuz fine; 

But give 'em the feathers. 

An' me, in all weathers. 
This sweet little woman o' mine! 

I jest ain't got nuthin' ag'in em— 
These angels— they're good in their line; 

But they're sorter above me! 

Thank God that she'll love me— 
This dear little woman o' mine! 

THE ART OF HAPPY LITING. 

Yes, and an art it is that deserves the attention and 
study of all. It includes the art of making the best of 
everything and should be cultivated and developed by 
parents and teachers, and perfected by intelligent self- 
culture. Happiness is not an indescribable somethmg 
always beyond one's grasp, but is in the reach of all, if 
we but look for it in the common path of life, m the or- 
dinary routme of every day duty. 

Not in Wealth.— It is a serious, but very common error 
to assume that wealth brings happiness. While abundant 



28 



A rt of Happy Living. 



means may be convenient, these do not usually or neces- 
sarily add to the happiness of the possessor, but on the 
other hand, sometimes bring care and anxiety, which drive 
out the last rays of happy living. The humblest lot, 
although associated with toil, may become a little paradise 
on earth, when affiliated with it are a seeing eye, a feeling 
heart, a helping hand, an elevating purpose, and an intelli- 
gent ef?ort at self-improvement. Without these essentials 
even wealth becomes a burden. 

Home Atmosphere. — Of all the minor arts and sciences 
none is more delightful in itself or richer in its 
compensations than the creation of the home atmosphere; 
and although the ability to make a home is a natural 
endowment of some fortunate beings, it is not the less 
a talent which may be cultivated, and which will continu- 
ally repay the time and care devoted to its acquirement. 

Houses and Homes. — There are houses and there are 
homes, and it must be a very indifferent or a very selfish 
woman who cannot evolve a home from the least promis- 
ing elements, and take pride in improving it to the ut- 
most. 

Gift of Arrangement. — The majority of women possess 
what Hawthorne calls "the gift of practical arrangement," 
which is, he continues, "a kind of natural magic that 
enables these favored ones to bring out the hidden ca- 
pabilities of things around them, and particularly to give 
a look of habitableness to any place which, for however 
brief a period, may happen to be their home." Under 
the skillful touch of these persons, unpromising or incon- 
gruous materials are brought into subjection, harmonious 
arrangements replace stif¥ outlines, defects are concealed 
and good points emphasized, so that rooms which have 
been hard and forbidding assunie a genial and inviting 
aspect. These clever folks not only work their spells 
upon unlovely surroundings; they accomplish what is 
even more difficult by giving an air of domesticity and 
use to the most splendid apartments, effectually dispelling 
that soulless magnificence which is so depressing to warm- 
hearted cvery-day people. 

Order.— Order, indeed, must reign in every true home 
and there must be some regulations for the general 
good which are gently but firmly enforced. Sometimes 
mists of discontent or sharp gusts of rebellion darken 
and disturb the air, but these become fewer as the dear 
mother way is recognized to be always the best way. 



I 

I 

I 




A MORNING WALK. 



Sunlight and Health. 

I. Power of Sunlight.— Sunlight is one of the mostpow- 
erful forces in nature, kindling the whole vegetable world 
into being, and making animal life possible by its extraor- 
dinary chemical agency. (29) 



Sunlight and Health. 



2. Seclusion from Sunshine.— Seclusion trom sunshine is 
one of the great misfortunes of our civilized life. The same 
cause which makes the potato vines white and sickly when 
grown in dark cellars, operates to produce the pale, sickly 
girls that are reared in our parlors. Expose either to the 
rays of the sun, and they begin to show color, health and 
strength. 

3. Philosophy of the Influence of Sunlight.— Recent 

discoveries seem to prove that there is conveyed to animals, 
by the direct action of the sun's rays, a subtle current of iron. 
It does not exist in light, or but very slightly, if at all, but 
it is a part of the sun's rays. Therefore, we must enjoy 
these rays if we would feel their full effect. This iron it is 
which is supposed to give color to plants and animals, and 
to impart strength and beauty. With strength and beauty 
come health and good spirits, and despondency and fear are 
banished. 

4. Sunlight and Plants.— It is well known that no valua- 
ble plant can grow well without being visited by the direct 
rays of the sun; no plant can bear seed, no fruit can ripen 
without it. Any vine grown in the dark is white and 
strengthless. Grass, grain and flowers do not thrive under 
the shadow of a tree. 

5. Sunlight and Domestic Animals.— It is well known 
that no valuable domestic animals can thrive without being 
visited often by the sunshine. The fish of the Mammoth 
Cave are white; their eyes are not opened, because they 
have never felt the glorious light; they are weak and im- 
perfect, a kind of idiots, if fish are liable to that wretched- 
ness. Swine which are shut under the farmer's barns, and 
where everything is favorable except the lack of sunshine, 
do not thrive as well as those which have the ordinary run 
in the open air. Cows and horses stalled continuously in 
dark stables become feeble and unhealthy, and become use- 
less in less than half the time of those which run in the open 
air, or whose stalls permit them to enjoy the influence of the 
sunlight. The same is true of all other domestic animals. 

6. Sualight and Human Life.~Sir James Wylie says 
that "The cases of disease on the dark side of an extensive 
barrack St. Peter sburgh, have been uniformly, for many 
years, in ti..-; proportion of three to one to those on the side 
exposed to strong light." 

7. Sunlight and Miners. — The lack or pure light and 
pure a'r in mines tells seriously upon the health of miners. 
"Fourcault affirms that where life is prolonged to the aver- 
age term, the evil effects of the want of light are seen in the 



Sunlight and Health. 



81 



stunted forms and general deterioration of the human race. 
It appears that the inhabitants of the arrondissement of 
Chimay, in Belgium, three thousand in number, are engaged 
partly as coal miners, and partly as field laborers. The 
latter are robust, and readily supply their proper number of 
recruits to the army; while among the miners it is in most 
ears impossible to find a man who is not ineligible from 
odily deformity or arrest of physical development. 

8. The Sunlight aud Blinds.— "I wish God had never 
permitted man to invent green blinds," said a thoughtful 
and brilliant woman. Why did she say it? Because she 
saw, wherever she went over our fair and sunshiny land, 
that green blinds were closely shut upon our comfortable 
houses, excluding the sun's light, which we may be sure 
God sends down for some blessed purpose. That blessed 
purpose is to promote growth, to give strength, to impart 
color, to gild with beauty, to inspire good thoughts, and to 
insure light hearts and cheerful faces. 

9. Sunlight and Sleep.— Sleepless people — and they are 
many in America — should court the sun. The very worst 
soporific is laudanum, and the very best sunshine. There- 
fore, it is very plain that poor sleepers should pass many 
hours in the day in sunshine, and as few as possiole in the 
shade. 

10. Gi?e the Children Sunshine.— Children need sun- 
shine quite as much as flowers do. Half an hour is not 
enough. Several hours are required. The most beautiful 
flowers that ever studded a meadow could not be made half 
so beautiful without days and days of the glad light that 
streams through space. Light for children. Sunshine for 
the little elves that gladden this otherwise gloomy earth. 
Deal it out in generous fullness to them. Let the nursery 
be in the sunshine. Better plant roses on the dark side of 
an iceberg than rear babies and children in rooms and 
alleys stinted of the light that makes life. 

11. Scrofula. — Plants and animals become scrofulous if 
deprived of light. Get all the light and all the sunshine 
you can; for all comes from the sun. The sun is the great 
fountain of light and life. 



32 Healthy Homes. 




HEALTH Y ITOMES. 

"Cleanliness is the elegance of the poor." — English Peoveeb. 
"Virtue never dwelt long with filth and nastinees."— Count Rumfoed 

Health is wealth. Almost all the fevers, cholera, an^ 
other plagues result from poisoned air, coming from bar 
drains, uncleaned streets, and badly kept back yards. Housi ■ 
slops and remnants of the table, or decaying vegetables, should 
never be allowed to be thrown in the back yard. Good drains 
clean cellars, and general cleanliness about the house, are thf 
only safeguards of health. 

Pure air and good ventilation are just as necessary in thft 
house as about the house. Whenever a number of persons live 
together, the atmosphere becomes poisoned, unless means are 
provided for its constant change and renovation. The death 
rate is much greater in crowded tenement houses than in the 
well ventilated and regulated homes of the wealthier classes. 
Diphtheria, scarlet fever, and other dreaded contagious diseas.. 
es are more prevalent and fatal iu our large cities than in thf: 
country or smaller towns. 



Pure Air. 38 




nrPtTEE AIB MAKES THE GEAVEYABD EICH. 

PURE AIR. 

Necessity. — The prime necessity of life is pure air. The 
body receives its nourishment from food taken into the 
stomach. This is essential to life, but just as important 
is the food for the lungs so generously provided in the 
pure, fresh air all around us. We insist upon it that we 
must have food for the stomach, but how often do we 
deprive ourselves of that which is just as important to 
health and happiness — pure air. A person may live for 
several weeks without taking food. He may be deprived 
of drink for some days without serious injury, but deprive 
him of air but for a few minutes and death will result. 

Impure Air. — Those who spend much of the time in the 
open air are not subjected to the evil effects of im- 
pure air as are those who are required to spend most 
of their time indoors. And yet, all may suffer from the 
evil effects of a poorly ventilated bedroom, or a cellar 
where decaying vegetables are sending forth through 
crevices and cracks into ever apartment of the house 
poisonous and disease-producing air. The sources of im- 
pure air are diverse and manifold. 



8 



B4 



Pure Air. 




aj 1) c .S 



•J t; cj « 



(/I p C ^ ^ 

• — o £5 y ^ 



5 ^ 

^ n! oj - , 



c3 



= =111111 g-i 



c c 

Ml o 

G >U 

c c 

.2 

t« « ^ 

O-o ^ 
X be rt 

Q V 



?^ ej O 



3 y 



c . oj •-- 




(O lU Ifl 
0^3 



C rt 



o o 



c 3 

Cxi w OT3 



- Li w ^ 

S-£ ^ a *- 3 u, 



% S 5 

iniUC«.l:n,^"'3« 



i" . 

o a, c 



* g rt <u ^ G c <n '-''O 
" — ? _s ifl 1? c 



■S|-^"j'^rt'^34,« 



4) -a 

> bfl O 
(DUO 

3 0X1 

o 

-a 3 

!- c 
g O U 

c o'c 

(U >- . 
-C 3^ 

I^H .3 

_c 3 « 

■t3 O >- 

<u 1) <2 
g 

_U ^ tij 

JD ^ 

■5; ° u 
<u 1) > 

y o -4 

ro J3 - 
— cH-^ 

c.S u 



Pure Air. 



S5 



Our Duty. — Our duty lies in removing everything from 
dwelling and yard that may give rise to or produce foul 
air, and on the other hand in providing for ventilation 
of every room, especially the bedroom. 

Neglecting Ventilation.— That dull feeling in the morn- 
ing, that headache, that restlessness at night is very 
frequently the result of bad ventilation or no ventilation 
at all. No one should occupy a bedroom that does not 
permit the foul air to escape, and pure air to enter. Many 
of the diseases to which men are subject are contracted 
by breathing impure air. 

How to Ventilate. — Fresh air can be obtained only 
from without. Cold air will injure no one, but drafts 
of cold upon only a part of the body may occasion severe 
cold. In all attempts to ventilate, drafts should be avoided. 
A room can frequently be ventilated without causing drafts 
by lowering a window at the top on one side of a room, 
and raising another a little at the bottom on the opposite 
side. There should be two openings, one for the pure air 
to come in at and another for the bad air to go out at. 

Another Method. — A very simple method to ventilate 
and still avoid drafts is to take a board the length of the 
window casing and about three or four inches wide. Place 
this board under the lower sash, thus making an opening 
between the two sashes where they overlap. In this way 
the air will enter and be thrown toward the ceiling, and a 
draft will be avoided. Whatever the method adopted, be 
sure that ventilation is not neglected. Ventilate your 
rooms well if you would prolong life. 

Night Air. — Some persons have great prejudice against 
night air. Although night air may be damp and at times 
not so healthful, yet if we wish to breathe at all at night 
we must breathe night air, the only kind there is at night. 
The dangers of night air are largely imaginative, and at 
the most are nothing to be compared to the dangers and 
evils of badly ventilated and over-heated rooms. 

Plants in a Bed-room.— The theory that plants kept 
in bedrooms are injurious is contradicted by the best 
authorities. It is found that taking the whole twenty-four 
hours through, they do not surcharge the air with car- 
bonic acid gas. Plants purify the air during the night 
as well as during the day. Strongly scented plants may, 
by the odors which they emit, be unpleasant to the senses 
of a nervous person, but aside from this, plants with the 
e^eerful aspect which they give to a room, with the pleas- 
aalf secreatioB which their care affords, and with tbdr 



S6 



Pure Air, 



tendency to remove impurities from the air, are a blessing 
rather than an injury. 

Quantity of Air.— Every person above fourteen years 
of age requires about six hundred cubic feet of shut-up 
space to breathe in during the twenty-four hours. If he 
sleeps in a room of smaller dimensions, he will suffer 
more or less the serious results of poisoned air. Shut up 
a mouse in a glass bottle and it will gradually die, by 
re-breathing its own breath. About half the children born 
in some manufacturing towns die before they are five years 
old, principally because they want pure air. Every sleep- 
ing room, winter and summer, should have an open win- 
dow during the night, and the room and the bedding 
should be thoroughly aired every morning. Remember 
that pure air in and about the home will do more to pre- 
serve health than all medicines. 

Cold Air. — Don't be afraid to go out of doors because 
it is a little colder than usual. The cold air will not hurt 
you if you are properly protected, and take exercise 
enough to keep the circulation active. On the contrary, 
it will do you good. It will purify your blood, it will 
strengthen your lungs, it will improve your digestion, it 
will afford a healthy, natural stimulus to your torpid cir- 
culation, and strengthen and energize your whole system. 
The injury which often results from going into a cold 
atmosphere is occasioned by a lack of protection to some 
part of the body, exposure to strong drafts, or from 
breathing through the mouth. Avoid these, and you are 
safe. Don't be afraid to sleep in a cold room at night with 
the window a little open. Cold air, if pure, will not hurt 
you at night any more than in the day, if you are pro- 
tected by sufKcient clothing, and by breathing through the 
nostrils. If you do not breathe thus, acquire the habit as 
soon as possible. 

Colds and Fevers. — If you wish to be subject t« 
colds, coughs, and fevers, shut yourself in close, hot 
rooms day and night. If you wish to be free from their 
companionship, always have plenty of pure air to breathe 
night and day, take daily outdoor exercise, regardless of 
the weather, except as to clothing protection. 

Providence Blamed.— It is frequently the case that chil- 
dren and infants suffer from bad air and bad air often does 
its part toward diseasing an infant. The loss of children 
ia this way is generally attributed to "a special dispensa- 
tion of Providence," and the mother does not stop to 
think that bad air, improper food and management all had 
their part in bringing on the disease and making it fatal. 



How to Keep Well. 



91 



HOW TO KEEP WELL. 

The greatest treasure of all — health. 

All the gold in the world can not pay for the loss of it. 

The secret of how to remain in good health, and, with 
reasonable care, live to be a hundred, is worth more than 
the richest gold mine that has been discovered. 

Health is a comparative term. 

Many persons enjoy excellent health, but through ig- 
norance or carelessness, or both, bring upon themselves 
diseases that result in much suffering and even premature 
death. Every person in justice to himself, his family, and 
the public in general, should devote some time to a careful 
study of the laws of health. The errors most commonly 
committed are those most commonly borne in mind. He 
who assumes habits of moderation, in regular exercise 
and diet will be able to do much toward lengthening his 
life. Lack of regular exercise, excesses in eating or drink- 
ing, and exclusive devotion to exacting cares, will under- 
mine the strongest constitution. Take good care of your- 
self while in health. Prize it above millions of gold. 
When health is gone money can not buy it back again. 

Definition of Health.— Sir Andrew Clarke declares that 
one-half of the population of London is permanently 
ill. His definition of health is: That state in which the 
body is not consciously present to us; that state in which 
work is easy and duty not a hard trial; that state in which 
it is a joy to see, to think, to feel, and to be. A most ex- 
cellent definition, and a most cogent argument why we 
should heed the teachings of hygiene. 

Health Hints. — Give your brain sufficient food and an 
abutuiajit supply of oxygen, and then give it a fair 
amount of good, hard work every day, if you wish to 
maintain it in a high state of healthy activity. Attorneys 
and clergymen who use their brains much are the longest- 
lived men, showing plainly that regular brain work is 
good for the general health as well as for the efficiency 
of the nervous system in particular. The muscular system 
must be treated in a similar manner, if you do not wish 
to become subject to fatty degeneration. 

Pause and Consider. — If you have worked night and 
day, overtaxed your brain, and worried yourself generally, 
then pause and consider if it is worth while to spend your 
health and strength in gaining that which frequently 
takes to itself wings, while you are every day becoming 



88 



Deep Breathing. 



more and more a victim of exhaustion and irritability. 
Reduce life to the simplest terms. Eat and drink simply, 
live out of doors as much as you can, and when you are 
inclined to worry and to give your mind up to desponden- 
cy and despair, then summon philosophy to your aid. In 
that direction health lies. 

DEEP BREATHING. 

Cultivate the habit of breathing through the nose and 
taking deep breaths. If this habit was universal, there 
is little doubt that pulmonary affections would be de- 
creased one-half. An English physician calls attention 
to this fact, that deep and forced respiration will keep the 
entire body in a glow in the coldest weather, no matter 
how thinly o. may be clad. He was himself half frozen 
to death one night, and began taking deep breaths and 
keeping the air in his lungs as long as possible. The 
result was that he was thoroughly comfortable in a few 
minutes. The deep respirations, he says, stimulate the 
blood currents by direct muscular action, and cause the 
entire system to become pervaded with the rapidly-gen- 
erated heat. 

When to Begin. — Mothers should see that their little 
ones learn to breathe correctly — that is, through the nose, 
and to take long breaths. A long breath wai expand 
and exercise the lungs to their fullest capacity, while a 
short breath only affects the upper part. For people with 
catarrhal tendencies or weak lungs there is nothing better 
than deep breathing. It puts the blood in circulation, 
thus benefiting the entire body. In cold weather deep 
breathing generates considerable heat and the one who 
can breathe well never feels the cold as does one who 
takes short breaths. 

Lnng Strengthener.— Long breaths are lung strength- - 
eners, and such exercise has cured severe colds in the 
lungs, and has been known to do more good than medi- 
cine in the early stages, or rather, at the appearance, of 
consumption. Such precaution and prevention cost nothing 
and it would be well to adopt the method. 

Art of Breathing —It is perhaps one of the signs of' 
the times, to those alert for indications, that the art 
of breathing has become more and more a subject of 
atttention. Oculists, as well as physiologists, go deeply 
into its study in a way hardly to be touched upon here. 
Physicians have cured aggravated cases of insomnia by 
long-drawn regular breaths, fever-stricken patients have 



Deep Breathing. 



39 



been quieted, stubborn forms of indigestion made to dis- 
appear. A tendency to consumption may be entirely 
overcome, as some authority has within the last few years 
clearly demonstrated, by exercises in breathing. Sea- 
sickness, too, may be surmounted, and the victim of hyp- 
notic influence taught to withstand the force of any energy 
directed against him. 

Systematic Ureathing. — Dr. Oertel, of Munich, has 
written an extensive work on breathing. We cannot en- 
ter into the philosophy of his system, but the simple rules 
laid down, without entering into an understanding of the 
principles underlying them, have been so helpful to many 
asthmatic patients and of inestimable value to all who 
practice them that we cannot pass this subject before call- 
ing attention to them. No one need ever "get out of 
breath" who follows the system, no matter how long the 
walk or how steep the climb. 

Rnle for Ascent. — In making any ascent, either by 
stairway or path, the rule is to use one breath for every 
step. One should breathe through the nostrils, not talk, 
and go systematically to work. The fuller the breath 
the better. 

On the Level. — In walking along a level stretch take 
two steps to every breath. Always begin to exhale or 
inhale as the same foot touches the ground. 

Ridding the Lungs.— The third exercise is for ridding 
the lungs of the air accumulated there. It is practiced 
with the mouth open. Inhale as you put the right foot to 
the ground. Then, as the left touches the ground, exhale 
naturally, and as the right touches the ground exhale again 
with an effort, so expelling all the air from the lungs. 
Then inhale again, now on the left foot, exhale naturally 
on the right, and with an effort expel the air as the left 
foot falls. This exercise is kept up for some time, always 
in this way: Left foot, inhale; right foot, exhale; left 
foot, expel with effort. Again, right foot, inhale; left 
foot, exhale; right foot, expel with effort. The process 
'of ixihaling, therefore, begins with alternate footsteps. 

It must not be supposed that the gait of the individual 
is badly affected, made unduly awkward by the effort to 
breathe in this way. On the contrary, w'hen once the 
idea is grasped, the whole movement of the individual 
becomes rhythmic and graceful. 

These rules, although simple, have been very beneficial 
to many. 



40 



Evils of Over-eating. 



THE EVIL OF OVER-EATING. 

Excesses. — The excesses in the use of food and drink 
of some men are almost beyond belief, and yet, in a few 
instances, the facts are well authenticated. Bnllat-Savarin, 
himself a famous epicure, relates the followmg anecdote: A 
friend expressed the despair of his life that he could never 
get nis "fill of oysters." "Come, dine with me and you 
shall have enough," said the epicure. The friend did, and 
ate thirty-one dozen oysters as a prelude to the ex- 
cellent dinner which was served. Downright gluttony 
is not given frequent exhibition at the table of gentle 
people these days. It is considered rather nearer correct 
to affect a small appetite, such as requires the temptation 
of dainty dishes. This is, however, very frequently a small 
bit of deception, but it has merit, even though it leads 
those who resort to it to supplement meals taken in 
public, in the privacy of their own pantries. 

Duty of Housewife.— In regard to this whole matter 
of gluttony it is the duty of the good housewife to keep 
down the appetite of her husband. Particularly is this 
necessary in the cases of well-to-do professional and busi- 
ness men. In the families of mechanics earning low wages 
such a warning is almost wholly unnecessary, but it 
may be said of most men in good circumstances that they 
eat too freely of rich food. If men would begin careful 
and systematic physical culture in early youth and con- 
tinue the practice through life, good health would be the 
result. 

Exercise.— Beyond the age of forty— at a period when 

so many are physically lazy — the superior value of exer- 
cise is apparent; but ordinarily, this is just the time when 
the hygiene of athletics is neglected. There is no reason 
why a punching-bag, rowing-machine, pulley-weights and 
other apparatus should be relegated to college boys and 
clerks. But having done a good deal of work in his time 
it is almost impossible to persuade a business or pro- 
fessional man, turning forty, to give any sort of attention 
to physical culture if such training has been previously 
neglected. Hence, it is the duty of a woman to keep from 
her husband all rich compounds that will ultimately rain 
his digestion. 

High Feeding. — High feeding is occasionally neutral- 
ized by hard exercise; but in the absence of the latter it is 
mischievous in the extreme. If your husband will stand 
the treatment, begin by switching off from the heavy 



Evils of Over-eaiing.' 



4i 



breakfast of steak, hot rolls, potatoes, etc., and set before 
him eggs-on-toast, oatmeal, or any other of the many 
excellent breakfast foods now. 

Effects.— The effects of over-eating— or what is equally 
bad, injudicious eating — are clearly perceived in the case 
of a man who trains for some athletic event. In really 
fine condition indigestion is great loss of power. A strong 
member of a college crew, "hard as nails," was utterly 
urifit to pull his oarblade through the water on the four- 
mile journey down the Thames River, at New London, 
simply because of indiscretion in eating a few nights be- 
fore. This shows the importance ot diet. Napoleon is 
said to have lost the battle of Leipsic because of a fit of 
indigestion brought on by unusual indulgence. It is con- 
ceivable that a business man may lose a tempting contract, 
or a professional man an important cause for the same 
reason. Nor is this all. 

Financial Aspect. — The financial aspect of the case is 
worthy of our consideration. By taking of? a little here 
and a little there; by reducing condiments and sauces, 
expensive desserts and creamy compounds to a minimum, 
the grocer's account will be a complete surprise at the 
end of the month, while the husband's health as well as 
his pocketbook will show gratifying results. I know of a 
family whose members almost unconsciously fitted into 
this simpler way of living, until eventually the butcher and 
the baker received barely two-thirds of their former divi- 
dends. And each inmate of the household could almost 
have taken an oath that nothing had been subtracted from 
the menu, so gradual had been the shrinkage. 

Advice to Weary Women. — Let some of the women 
who are brainweary with devising tempting dishes for the 
good man of the house take this matter to heart, and if 
they are able to change their husbands from gourmands 
to athletes a ripe old age is not unlikely. 

On the other hand, those of full habit who give un- 
checked and hearty indulgence to their appetites, should 
always keep in mind the words Shakespeare puts into the 
mouth of sweet "Portia's" wise maid: "They are as sick 
that surfeit with too much, as they that starve with noth- 
ing." 

Two Meals a Day. — Many have an erroneous idea that 
if they eat often and a little at a time their body 
is better nourished and their strength better kept up by 
so doing. There never was a greater mistake nlade than 
this constant lunching, the advice of many doctors to do 



42 



Evils of Over-eating. 



so notwithstanding. We have known some of the worst 
cases of dyspepsia brought on by this very habit. We 
knew a young man, a clerk in a fancy grocery store, who 
was constantly nibbling from this and that, first candy, 
then cheese, crackers, fruits and other edibles, indulged in 
until he never wanted a square meal, and in a few months 
became a chronic dyspeptic. He was thoroughly cured, 
however, in a few weeks by a rigid adherence to two 
meals a day and not even taking the least thing between 
meals. We have now in mind many cases of greatly im- 
proved health and those who have regained perfect 
health by strict conformity to the two-meal system. 

For the Aged. — Especially for people over fifty years 
old and for those of sedentary habits would we recommend 
this system of eating, as it gives the digestive organs the 
needed rest they must have in order to properly and 
thoroughly digest and assimilate the food which goes to 
make a healthy body and give us strength to live. Nature 
intended that we should eat to live, not, as is too often 
the practice, live to eat. 

A Vegetable Diet. — Many noted physicians have in 
recent years recommended a strictly vegetable diet. It is 
held that a vegetable diet is far better suited to sustain 
man in health, and enable him to be fully what he was 
intended to be, than animal food or a mixed diet. This 
view may be contradicted, but experience has taught us 
that many persons would have better health if they were 
to subsist upon a vegetable diet rather than to partake 
so largely of flesh. 

Life Prolonged. — Dr. Lambe, a noted English physi- 
cian, says that life is prolonged in incurable diseases 
about one-tenth by vegetable diet. He has observed no ill 
consequences from the relinquishment of animal food. The 
apprehended danger of the change is only a scare, the 
danger being all the other way. While many may not 
agree with this opinion, a practical application will demon- 
strate its worth to all who are sufficiently interested. Er- 
rors in diet are the great sources of disease. Amendment 
of diet is the great basis of recovery. Medicines may re- 
lieve or suspend the majority of diseases, but medicines 
can never cure without the aid of regimen. 

Eatingr When Tired.— Some very severe attacks of in- 
digestion people bring on themselves by eating heartily 
when in an exhausted condition. A hearty meal stimu- 
lates the tired heart momentarily, and so tempts one to fill 
the stomach inordinately full. Often the hunger of de- 



Evils of Over-eating. 



43 



pleted nerves and brain is confused with hunger for more 
than a moderate amount of food. Self-control is at its 
ebb, anyhow, when one is very tired. Hence, we need 
to establish ourselves in a clear idea on this matter, and 
have it ready for application on occasion. 

Rest Before Eating.— A very short period of rest puts 
the system into much better condition for grappling with 
food. Take a glass of hot milk and sit down for five 
or ten minutes, no matter how tired and hungry. Then 
begin to eat slowly, masticating thoroughly. In a little 
while the vigor of the stomach will return, and if one 
leaves of¥ at a reasonable point, all will be well. If very 
tired it is better to make a very simple, light meal, and 
take some sleep, before attempting to digest all the food 
required for building up the waste. 

tVill Power. — It requires a good deal of will power to 
control the appetite at such times, when it seems almost 
a sort of duty to indulge in anything that relieves the sense 
of goneness. If one has missed a meal and been long 
without food, it is even then risky to take suddenly all 
the food one can hold. The over-hungry stomach cannot 
do as much as the stomach that is just fairly hungry. 
It is much better in such a case to take a little, give it time 
to be dissolved, and then take more. A good deal depends 
on the sort of work that has been done and the physical 
vigor of the individual. 

Brain Work. — Where severe brain work has been done 
to bring one to the "tired-and-hungry" condition more 
care is required in eating, especially with a person of 
delicate organization. Prof. Draper used to emphasize 
the fact that any highly organized animal or man was 
liable to injury by abuses which an animal or man of 
coarser organization could suffer with apparent impunity. 
He instanced the well-known cases in which halfwitted 
or stupid men are known to indulge in practices that 
would promptly wreck a man of high nervous organiza- 
tion, and yet without seeming to suffer. 



44 



Evils of Over-eating. 



TIME REQUIRED FOR DIGESTION. 



- H. M. 

Apples, sweet 1 30 

sour 2 00 

Beans, pod, boiled 2 30 

Beef, fresh, rare, roasted... 3 00 

dried 3 30 

fried 4 OOl 

Beets, boiled 3 45 

Bread, wheat, fresh 3 ."50 

" corn 3 15 

Butter (melted) 3 30 

Cabbage, with vinegar, raw. 2 00 

boiled 4 30 

Cheese (old, strong) 3 30 

Codfish 2 00 

Custard, baked 2 45 

Ducks, domestic, roasted 4 00 

wild, " ....4 30 

Eggs, fresh, hard boiled — 3 30 

soft " ....3 00 

" " fried 3 30 

Goose, roast 2 00 

Lamb, fresh, boiled 2 30 

Liver, beef, boiled 2 00 

Milk, boiled 2 00 

" raw 2 15 

Parsnips, boiled 2 30 



H. M. 

Mutton, roast 3 15 

broiled 3 00 

boiled 3 00 

Oysters, raw 2 65 

roast 3 15 

stewed 3 30 

Pork, fat and lean, roast 5 16 

boiled ...3 10 

raw 3 00 

Potatoes, boiled 3 30 

baked 2 30 

Rice, boiled 1 00 

Sago " 1 46 

Salmon, salted, boiled 4 00 

Soup, beef, vegetable 4 00 

chicken boiled 3 00 

oyster '" 3 30 

Tapioca, boiled 2 00 

Tripe, soused, boiled 1 00 

Trout, fresh, boiled or fried. 1 30 

Turkey, domestic, roast 2 00 

wild, roast 2 18 

Turnips, boiled 3 30 

Veal, fresh, broiled 4 00 

fried 4 30 

Venison steak, broiled 1 35 



HINTS FOR ALL KINDS OF PEOPLE. 

Hints for the Thin. 
Eat slowly and masticate thorougnly. 
Do not over-eat. 
Eat at regular intervals. 

Do not eat heartily when fatigued or over-heated. 
Rest whenever possible twenty minutes before and twen- 
ty minutes after dinner. 
Exercise regularly. 

Do not bathe after eating, for at least two hours. 

Do not exercise physically or mentally for at least a 
half-hour after eating. 

Live outdoors as much as possible, sleep and rest as 
much as you require. 

Avoid worry and cultivate a cheerful disposition. 
Hints for the Stout. 

Vary your occupations as much as possible. 

Sleep in well-ventilated rooms. 

Avoid crowds and close atmosphere. 

Bathe freely. 

Cultivate mental as well as physical activity. 
Do not over-eat. 



Tea and Coffee. 



45 



Drink liquids sparingly with meals, freely one hour 
before or two hours after meals. 
Avoid fatigue. 

Avoid sugar and starchy foods. 

Hint to All. 
Eat only what agrees with you. 

TEA AND COFFEE. 
WHY DO WE DRINK IT? 

That fragrant cup of tea, the still more alltiring cup of 
coffee, or the delicious and enticing cocoa or chocolate — 
what is it makes them each and all so indispensable to 
their votaries? 

One says, "I drink tea because it is so refreshing, it 
rests me when I am tired." "I take cofifee for the reason 
that I can't do without it," another honestly confesses; 
and "I drink chocolate because it is so soothing," explains 
a third. 

Not Essential to Health. — These beverages, physiolo- 
gists declare, are in no sense to be considered as food 
or as essential to health. They partake of the nature and 
effects of alcohol, that is, they are stimulating, exhilarat- 
ing, sometimes sedative, but never nourishing, and they 
are taken for a similar reason that the whisky drinker 
takes the still more stimulating liquor. All are unnatural 
props and false supports seeming to afford strength and 
in reality giving none. 

Disease Producing. — One of the most common causes 
of dyspepsia and nervousness is the immoderate use of 
tea and coffee. These drinks contain a poison which, al- 
though not fatal in small doses, nevertheless produces 
a decidedly injurious effect. While chocolate and cocoa are 
less powerful, they produce the same effects. 

The tea and coffee drinkers say "Oh, it doesn't hurt me. 
I've taken it for years." But the end is not yet, and when 
the reckoning is suddenly summed up, there is a painful and 
fatal deficit, and when it is too late to change the habits 
of a lifetime, the sad fact becomes apparent that these 
indulgences in strong tea and coffee are not conducive to 
the best results. 

Water the Beat Drink. — Many have found a cure for 
dyspepsia, nervousness, sick headache and other diseases 
in discarding tea, coffee and all their substitutes. After 
all has been said that can be said in favor of these drinks 
it remains true that nature's drink, pure water, is best. 



46 



Conditions of Health. 



CONDITIOXS or HEALTH. 

The organs which are the great sources of health — the 
organs of purification and invigoration, are to a great 
extent, within our reach and control. These are the skin, 
the lungs and the stomach. We can keep the skin clean, 
warm, and active. We can breathe, plentifully, of pure 
air, night and day. We can live on simple, natural, health- 
ful food, enough and not too much. We can drink the 
purest water we can get. These are the chief necessaries 
of life, and conditions of health. 

Value of Health. — No man can enjoy life, or perform its 
duties worthily, without health; nor can a man give what 
he does not possess to his posterity. Health is above 
gold and rubies. Better give a child a good constitu- 
tion than all other wealth. 

Ignorance. — Great masses of people are ignorant of the 
laws and conditions of health. Multitudes are suffering 
from diseases that could easily be prevented. The reme- 
dy for ignorance is useful knowledge, the remedy for 
poverty is industry and economy, the remedy for disease is 
a knowledge of the laws of health. 

Economics of Health. — Think of the vast number of 
physicians, surgeons, medical men, chemists, hospitals 
and dispensaries, all living on disease — disease that in 
many cases occurs through the evil habits and vices of 
the people. Good, simple, natural habits of living give 
health and long life, so that many persons may pass 
through life from the cradle to the grave without sickness 
or pain, without doctors or drugs. All disease is un- 
natural and preventable. 

Wealth and Position are not necessary to a high degree 
of health and a low death rate. Health is in the reach 
of all if poisonous narcotics, spiritous drinks, heating 
condiments and spices, and other poisonous matter are 
barred out of the system and the great purifying organ 
of the body — the skin — is kept free, clean, and its pores 
open by frequent bathing. 

Health-Purity.— Purity of birth is the source of health. 
There have been many holy souls in very sickly bodies 
who are martyrs, killed by ignorance, or by generations 
of unwise or wicked ancestors. Again, no one can main- 
tain or regain health without purity of thought, and conse- 
quent purity of life. To have a sound mind in a sound 
body, both must be pure and chaste. Chastity is a con- 
dition of health. 



Conditions of Health. 



4'i 



State of J-'ociety. — It is a sad reflection upon civilization 
to assert, that the more cultivated and refined man has 
become, the more sickly and diseased he is found to be. 
Ihe Creator never designed that any of the powers of 
the human constitution should suffer from use. It is 
man's privilege to improve not only his moral and in- 
tellectual powers, but his bodily also. 

Savage Nations. — When we witness the health and the 
greater power of endurance that exist among many of 
the savage nations, and when we consider that even they 
violate many physiological laws, we are led to reflect 
upon what might and what will yet be, in that age when 
enlightened man shall learn how to live in obedience to 
the Creator's laws. As certainly as the world stands, such 
a time will yet come, distant although it may yet be. 



OCCUPATIONS. 

It is generally acknowledged that occupation exerts an 
important influence on bodily health. Some occupations 
tend to build up the system and to maintain for mariy 
year« robust and enduring health, while others are in 
their very nature unhealthful. Let us notice the ad- 
vantages, and disadvantages as well, of the leading occu- 
pations. , , , , , , , 

The Farmer.— The farmer has the most healthful em- 
ployment. He has an abundance of pure air and is 
usually not necessitated to expose himself to storm and 
rain. His regular habits and labor in the open air give 
him a good appetite, digestion, and capacity for sleep. 
His brain is not worried or overtaxed. Some of the 
disadvantages of farmer life are small and illy ventilated 
bedrooms, over-heated and unventilated rooms in win- 
ter, and abuse in the way of diet in eating too much and 
in the use of tea, cofTee, and tobacco. Aside from these 
abuses, the farmer's life, more than any other, tends to 
longevity. Don't be in a hurry, young man, to leave the 
farm you may live to rue the day of your leaving it. 

Machinists, and all whose occupation exposes theni to 
an atmosphere loaded with dust, are liable to irritation 
and inflammation of the respiratory organs, resulting in 
asthma or consumption. , , • . i- 

Itlaclismiths are exposed to dust and the intense ligUt 
of the fire which often injures the eyes. 

Masons and Plasterers are liable to injury from dust 
and from the caustic quality of lime. 



48 



Conditions of Health. 



Painters suffer from the action of lead and from the 
fumes of the spirits of turpentine which they constant- 
ly inhale. Painters are rarely advanced in years. They 
should be paid double ordinary wages, if health is to be 
measured by money. 

Miners are injured by want of light, dampness, foul air, 
and the particles of dust to which they are exposed. 

Soldiers have some advantages over other occupations, 
but in time of peace they suffer from a lack of some- 
thing to do, and become dyspeptic and in time they are 
often subjected to exposures and irregular habits. The 
life of the soldier does not tend to longevity. 

Tailors suffer much from dyspepsia and from consti- 
pation. Plenty of exercise in the open air would greatly 
improve their condition. 

Seamstresses, on account of small pay, close hours, and 
entire neglect of exercise, are to be pitied much more than 
tailors. 

Clerks, Accountants, and Copyists are often suffering 
from want of light, bad air, and a too close application 
to their work. A frequent changing of position is de- 
sirable, the standing position is much more favorable 
to health than the sitting position, provided only one 
position can be chosen. 

Convicts are as a class free from disease and are often 
cured of dyspepsia by the plain food and regular habits 
required of them. Epidemics very seldom scale prison 
walls, although they may prevail in prison localities. This 
fact ought not to create a longing to be within prison 
walls, but is a powerful argument in favor of simplicity 
of food, regularity of habits and employment, and tem- 
perance in all things. 

Idlers.— Idleness is not conducive to health, happiness, 
or longevity. He who has no regular employment is in- 
clined to despondency and dyspepsia. Man in his 
healthiest and happiest state has regular employment. 
The retired farmer who enjoys life most and lives longest 
is the one who regularly keeps himself engaged at some- 
thing that gives exercise to his mental and bodily powers. 
Both extremes of idleness and of overwork should be 
avoided, but the more baneful results are the products of 
idleness. Richter says, "I have fire-proof, perennial enjoy- 
ments called employments." 



Wisdom and Beauty in Rest. 



49 



WISDOM AND BEAUTY IN REST. 

Good Health. — In these days of ten-minute-a-day read- 
ing, or half-hour studying societies for improving the 
mind, how many women make it a point to spend certain 
"minutes" in rest to improve t.icir nerves and their beauty? 
Good heahh is of vastly more importance than intellectu- 
ality, for of what comfort to its possessor, or to any 
one else, is the most brilliant mind which lives in a weary 
or nervous body? Sheer weariness causes more trouble 
in the world than it ever gets blamed for. A rested per- 
son, other things being right, is a pleasant one; while a 
tired person, under whatever other advantageous circum- 
stances, is almost sure to be cross. Many a family 
wrangle has ctarted from a few sharp words caused by 
overstrained nerves. 

Personal Appearance.— It is natural — and perfectly right 
— for a woman always to consider her personal appearance 
of great importance. That fact should cause the subject of 
rest to find favor, as those who are always a little overtired 
never look well. Their faces assume a worried, frowning 
expression, a.^d wrinkles, gray hairs, dull eyes and sallow 
complexion follow in natural succession. 

The Best Rest. — Would you keep your fresh com- 
plexion, and plumpness, and bright eyes? Then rest! 
Rest often, and rest in the right way. L o not insist that 
change of occupation is rest. There is no greater delu- 
sion. It is nothing of the kind. It simply varies the 
kind of fatigue — adds another different i"" location. The 
best rest, the only real rest, is found in a recumbent posi- 
tion. No one can stand or sit without holding com- 
paratively taut some muscles, and the tension tires them 
and the nerves by sympathy. To rest, lie down on some- 
thing entirely comfortable, and relax every nerve and 
muscle as much as possible. This is not altogether easy 
to do at first, but "practice makes perfect." The rest of it 
is wonderful — in fact, the whole secret of rest lies in the 
one word: relaxation. Notice a baby's or an animal's 
complete relaxation while it sleeps. Five minutes at a 
time several times a day — and more if possible — of such 
rest will certainly add to length of life and happiness. 

False Economy. — Many people think that they cannot 
afford to lie down in the daytime, or if they do that they 
must improve the time by reading. It is a false idea of 
an economy of time. Neither the reading nor the resting 
is well done; and so the time spent is practically wasted. 
But to take little rests — lying down — does not waste time; 
it is time invested m a way that pays big dividends. 



Laughter 



LAUGHTER A GREAT TONIC. 



Keeps the Spirit Buoyant, the Heart and Face Toungr. 

"I presume if we laughed more we should all be hap- 
pier and healthier," writes Edward W. Bok in the Ladies' 
Home Journal. "True, we are a busy and a very prac- 
tical people. And most of us probably find more in this 
life to bring the frown than the smile. But, nevertheless, 
it is a pity that we do not laugh more; that we do not 
bring ourselves to the laugh, if need be. 

Best Medicine. — We all agree that a good laugh is the 
best medicine in the world. Physicians have said that no 
other feeling works so much good to the entire human 
body as that of merriment. As a digestive, it is unex- 
celled; as a TTieans of exp ding the lungs, there is nothing 
better. It keeps the heart and face young. It is the 
best of all tonics to the spirits. It is, too, the most en- 
joyable of all sensations. 

Better Friends. — A good laugh makes better friends 
with ourselves and everybody around us, and puts us into 
closer touch with what is best and brightest in our lot in 
life. It is to be regretted, then, that such a potent agency 
for our pe onal good is not more often used. 

Not Expensive.— It costs notbing. All other medicines 
are more or less expensive. 'Why,' said an old doctor 
not long ago, 'if people fully realized what it means to 
themselves to laugh, and laughed as they should, ninety 
per cent, of the doctors would have to go out of busi- 
ness.' Probably when we get a little less busy we shall 
laugh more. For, after all, the diflference between gloom 
and laughter is but a step. And if more of us simply 
took a step aside oftener than we do, and rested more, 
we would laugh more. 

Laughter, not Giggling.— By laughing I do not mean 
the silly giggle indulged in by some women and so many 
girls and boys, too. There is no outward mark which 
derrtonstrates the woman of shallow mind so unmistakably 
as that of giggling. There is no sense in the giggle; no 
benefit to be derived from it. It makes a fool of the 
person, and renders every one about uncomfortable. 

A Healthful Nature.— But just as the giggle is the out- 
come of a small mind, the hearty laugh is the reflection 
of a healthful nature. What we want is more good 
laughers in the world — not more gigglers." 



Cure for Blues. 



M 



WHY DON'T YOU LAUGH? 

Why don't you laugh, young man, when troubles come> 
Instead of sitting 'round so sour and glum? 

You cannot have all play, 

And sunshine every day; 
When troubles come, I say, why don't you laugh? 

Why don't you laugh? 'Twill ever help and soothe 
The aches and pains. No road in life is smooth; 

There's many an unseen bump, 

And many a hidden stump 
O'er which you'll have to jump. Why don't you laugh? 

Why don't you laugh? Don't let your spirits wilt, 
Don't sit and cry because the milk you've spilt; 

If you would mend it now, 

Pray let me tell you how: 
Just milk another cow! Why don't you laugh? 

Why don't you laugh, and make us all laugh, too. 
And keep us mortals all from getting blue? 

A laugh will aways win; 

If you can't laugh, just grin — 
Come on, let's all join in! Why don't you laugh? 

A CURE FOR THE BLUES. 

Few women, and men as well, can honestly say that 
they have never had the "blues." One sometimes sees 
a cheery soul who will deny all knowledge of "doldrums," 
but she is usually a woman possessed of remarkable health 
and full of business interests, or one who literally has no 
time for moping. Such a woman is proof against any 
foolishness of the sort. 

But foolishness or not, if things go wrong, and if one 
feels tired and worried and discouraged, one is prone 
to become despondent and imaginative and out of sorts 
with the world, and it is then we have to look for that 
silver lining. Usually a good, brisk walk will bring it to 
our notice. The physical exercise and mental distraction 
one finds in the open air will sweep away th« cobwebs 
of the brain as nothing else can. As a race, we Ameri- 
cans are not fond of walking. We exercise too little. 
We worry too much. We take life too hard. We wear 
ourselves out in the pursuit of rest. A long, vigorous 
walk every day is the best tonic for mind and body, and, 
an almost invariable panacea for the "blues." 



52 Chanty. 




FEEDING THE UNFORTUNATE POOR. 



Charity, Happiness, and Length of Days. 

Gently to hear, kindly to judge. — Shakespere. 

He hath a tear for pity, and a hand 

Open as day for meiting Charity. —Shakespere. 

Then gently scan your brother man, 

Still gentler, sister woman ; 

Though they may gang a kennin* wrang, 

To step aside is human. —Bums, 

1. Charity is a golden chain that reaches from heaven to 
earth. It is the brightest star in the Christian's character. 
\yithout it our religion is like a body without a soul; our 
friendshifJ a shadow of a shadow. 

2. The rich should have charity for the poor and the poor 
-should have charity for the rich, for to-morrow the poor may 
be rich and the rich poor. It has been so in all ages and 
will continue to be so as long as man lives. 

3. Those who cultivate benevolence and charity in their 
heart will always find enjoyment in the prosperity of others. 



Sleep, 



53 



They will find mofe to cheer and more to enjoy, for a 
miserly soul is the most miserable of all of God's created 
bemgs. In the home of charity there is happiness, and 
happiness is conducive to health. 

4- How sweet are the hands that are reached out to re- 
lieve distress; how balmy the influence and virtue of those 
who try to alleviate the suffering of the poor! Cultivate 
benevolence, for it is a home virtue and a household 
beauty Beware of those people who never remember 
the needy or have nothing to offer for charity. And let 
all remember who have been blessed with abundance, that 
It IS not at all uncertain but their children or their chil- 
dren s children will beg for bread. Therefore deal gen- 
erously with the poor, and you will be happier and 
healthier and live longer for it. 

5. Every good hearty laugh in which a man indulges 
tends to prolong his life, as it makes the blood move more 
rapidly and gives a new and different stimulus to all the 
organs of the body from what it does at other times. So 
let us have all the joy we can. 

SLEEP. 

Sleep, in order to be beneficial, must be healthful and 
profound. Sleep produced by artificial means relieves the 
mind of its activities, but it is neither invigorating nor re- 
freshing, and is of very little value. 

Conditions.— Great care should be taken to have the 
room and bedding comfortable and clean. Sleep on an 
elastic mattress rather than a feather bed, and make sure 
of warm feet. If exercise and rubbing will not warm them, 
try the hot and cold foot-bath, alternately. A hot water 
bottle is better than cold feet. A window let down an 
inch from the top insures a change of air with no draft. 
A cool room is best. Take the position that gives most 
comfort, and sleep with the mouth shut. Avoid overheat- 
ing any part, but especially the lower portion of the spine. 
If a stomach-cough comes on after going to bed, drink a 
glass of cold water. To allay a cough from bronchitis, 
wring half a towel out of cold water, and spread it two 
thicknesses over the chest, covering with the dry part. 
In most cases, it will arrest the cough at once, and give 
quiet sleep. As a rule no invalid should eat within four 
hours of bedtime. 

Not Disturbed.— The sleeper should not be disturbed 
until he wakes of his own accord. This, of course, will 



Sleep. 



aot apply to lazy persons, and those in danger of contract- 
ing bad habits in this respect. 

Growing Children should, if possible, be permitted to 
sleep at will. Retiring at an early hour will generally 
break the tendency to bad habits in respect to rising. 

The Need of Sleep. — Why can some men sleep at will, 
and some "nervous" men, too, while others, sometimes 
very "heavy" men, with apparently immovable nerves, are 
tortured by insomnia? Why, too, do some men seem to 
obtain sufficient rest with five hours' sleep, while others 
require nine? Do some men "sleep slow," as Mr. Smed- 
ley jocularly argued in one of his amusing stories, or do 
they actually require more sleep? We cannot answer the 
question any more than the doctors can, but we agree on 
one side of the subject most heartily with the "British 
Medical Journal." 

Popular Prejudice. — The popular prejudice against 
sleep works infinity of mischief. There are plenty of slug- 
S^rds even among the cultivated class, but the sleep slug- 
gard is in that class a very rare specimen. 

The Educated.— The tendency of the educated is to 
wakefulness, and the man who does intellectual work 
and exhibits what his friends think a disposition to over- 
sleep, is obeying a healthy instinct. Sleep recuperates 
him, and he knows it. The popular notion that a young 
man who works with his head, yet sleeps for nine hours, 
is a sluggard, is popular nonsense. No man whose brain 
is active and who does not drink ever sleeps more than 
is good for him. 

Early Sleep. — One hour's sleep gotten before midnight 
is worth two after the midnight hour is past. If those 
troubled with nervous prostration would try the experi- 
ment and thus avoid late suppers their nerves would soon 
relax and the system would soon regain its normal con- 
dition. No one can have perfect health without the neces- 
sary sleep of from seven to ten hours every day, and from 
three to five of these should be put in before twelve 
o'clock at night. 

Unaired Sleeping-Rooms.— Headache, nervousness, and 
a long list of evils follow in the wake of unaired sleeping- 
rooms. Drafts cause equally undesirable complications. 
Beds should not be placed in the direct line between win- 
dows and doors. Some prudent housewives have four 
small screws placed on the window sashes, two at the 
top on each side and two below them, about five inches. 
When the window is lowered to this depth every nightj 



Sleep. 



55 



a sort of screen made of veiling is fastened by means of 
strings to the screws. This permits fresh air to enter 
freely, but prevents a strong wind from blowing against 
the sleepers. 

How to Induce Sleep.— Lengthen the respiration— in 
other words, breathe slower by taking deeper breaths and 
expiring the air slowly — and think of the slow rise of the 
chest, etc. These two things will bring sleep, but why? 
Slower breathing, of course, means lessened bodily activi- 
ty, so that is simple. But how does thinking of the chest 
induce sleep? 

Thinking of a thing implies that our bodily as well as 
mental gaze is fixed on it; to gaze on one's chest the eye- 
balls must be directed downwards. Those who suffer 
from insomnia and continually go over the events of the 
past day (as such do), will find on personal examination 
that their eye-balls are directed upwards; "to think" it 
is almost imperative such" should be the case; direct the 
eyes downwards, and keep them so, and "thinking" is not 
so easy. 

It has been recommended that the imagination should 
conceive the breath issuing from the nostrils; this breath 
has no shape or form, and hence is, perhaps, a better 
"object" than the chest. Years ago I learnt to do this, 
though I did not then know the explanation. Practice 
no longer necessitates my conceiving such objects as the 
breath or chest, or feet, or bed-foot, or anything below the 
level of the eyes. I can compel my eye-balls to turn down 
at will. It was not easy to get into at first — far from it; 
but I was determined to drop the bromide, and chanced to 
hear of this suggestion. 

I am now the envy of friends; though over fifty, I sleep 
for eight hours and sometimes ten, and a most refreshing 
sleep, too. Dreams do not — they cannot — trouble one 
who sleeps; only "out-of-sortedness" will cause dreams or 
broken sleep. I know the plan is a good one. 

BICYCLE EXERCISE. 

Bicycle Exercise. — To get the real benefit a bicycle can 
give, don't race, or attempt phenomenal distances. Walk 
up the severe hills, i. e., those (depending on the person), 
which cause the slightest inconvenience in breathing. 
Avoid going with riders who are stronger than you, as 
you are then about certain to overdo. Sit erect. Wear 
loose woolen clothing. Go, if possible, into an interest- 



^6 



Be Good to Yourself. 



ing country, so as to have occasion for little detours afoot, 
ofT the road, and so vary the exercise. Go alone if you can 
not with some one who will stop and rest when you feel 
like it. 

BE GOOD TO YOURSELF. 

Think deliberately of the house you live in — ^your body. 
Make up your mind firmly not to abuse it. 
Eat nothing that will hurt it; wear nothing that dis- 
torts or pains it. 
Do not overload it with victuals or drink or work. 
Give yourself regular ana abundant sleep. 
Keep your body warmly clad. 

At the first signal of danger from the thousand ene- 
mies that surround you, defend yourself. 

Do not take cold; guard yourself against it; if you feel 
the first symptoms, give yourself heroic treatment. 

Get into a fine glow of heat by exercise. 

Take a vigorous walk or run, then guard against a sud- 
den attack of perspiration. 

This is the only body you will ever have in this world. 

A large share of the pleasure and pain of life will come 
through the use you make of it. 

Study deeply and diligently the structure of it, the laws 
that should govern it, and the pains and penalties that will 
surely follow a violation of every law of life or health. 

AS I GROW OLD. 

If need be, take my friends, my dole of wealth, 

Take faith, and love, and hope, take youth and health^ 

But while I live, dear God, blight not the flower 

Of reason in my brain! Leave me the power 

To string together, on fine threads of gold. 

My fairest thoughts, as I grow gray and old. 



Causes of Premature Deaths. 



57 




RIPE OLD AGE. 



WHY SO 9IANY PEOPLE DIE BEFORE THEIR TIME. 

I. According to the sacred writings of King Solomon, 
human life has oeen limited to three score and ten. 

a. It is a fact easily ascertained by observation that those 
people who live to be seventy, eighty, ninety or one hundred 
years of age have not been of the wealthier classes. People 
who live what is called high life, eat late and highly stimu- 
lating suppers, with irregular hours of rest and sleep, seldom 
reach that era of life known as old age. Highly seasoned 
Food, champagne, and midnight banquets are not the in- 
vigorating influences that preserve the health. 

3. The persons who live to old age have never sown 
Biany wild oats in youth, they have Uvea a steady and regular 



58 



Cattses of Premature Deaths. 



life, eating plain food and retired without allowing the cares 
of the day to interrupt their rest or sleep. 

4. Highly seasoned food, and luxuries of any kind al- 
ways tend to excesses which produce premature decay. 
For some years past, reported deaths from " Heart Failure " 
have become frequent and fashionable among practicing 
physicians, and perhaps the report may have been true, but 
not the whole truth, for it is probable that in nine cases out of 
ten the heart failure was secondary and brought on by an 
ineffectual effort of the stomach or alimentary tract to cast 
off indigestible matter clogging the way, caused by excesses 
of over-eating or over-nervous strains. 

5. Bright's disease, that most miserable misnamed dis- 
ease. If statistics could be kept showing the real cause of 
all deaths occurring between the ages of forty-five and sev- 
enty-five, the result in all probability would prove that more 
than half fall victims to disease engendered by stomach dif- 
ficulties, brought on by too high living, excesses in both eat- 
ing and drinking. 

6. The habit of constipation is another serious obstacle 
in the way of long life. Its progress is slow and so insidi- 
ous as to beguile the sufferer into the belief that it is not 

f)ernicious or worthy of attention ; and so apprehension is 
ulled, while the foundation of some fatal chronic disease 
involving important organs is being laid. 

7. When troubled with constipation it is usual to resort 
to purgatives, which afford temporary relief, but usually 
have a tendency to confirm the disease. Injections are 
sometimes used with no better results, for besides being a 
bungling remedy they have no permanent influence in over- 
coming the habit. Bread made of unbolted rye or wheat 
meal is an excellent remedy, but not being in common use 
few patients can be sure of getting it regularly, especially if 
engaged in active pursuit, as many are. Before the habit is 
firmly established, eating fruit deserts at dinner every day is 
apt to afford some relief, and if there is no habit of consti- 
pation it may act as a preventive. Baked apples are excel- 
lent for constipation. Eating a fair-sized baked apple 
(warm or cold) at the beginning of each meal three times a 
day, has cured many very obstinate cases of constipation. 
It is a very palatable and cheap remedy, and much more 
certain and effective than strong drugs. 

8. To suggest the methodical use of cold water as a 
beverage in the absence of thirst, as a means of augmenting 
the chances of longevity, might seem to render one liable to 
be called a crank, if not a lunatic, but nevertheless the idea 



Causes of Premature Deaths. 



claims a physiological origin, and is well supported by ex« 
perience. Solid and dry as the human body appears, water 
constitutes more than three-fourths of its bulk, and all the 
functions of life are carried on in a water-bath.^ And al- 
though the sense of thirst may be trusted to call for a 
draught of cold water when required, that offers no reason 
why we may not be benefited by it in the absence of thirst. 

9. Drinking cold water as a beverage between meals is 
surely very conducive to health and increases the chances 
of long life. People rarely drink anything between meals, 
and all the liquid is taken with the meals, this surely with- 
out question is very injurious to the digestive organs. It is 
not natural for animals to drink while eating. Man is the 
only exception. Food should be thoroughly masticated and 
not washed down with tea and coffee or water. 

10. If people would take a good drink of water just before 
retiring and a good cool glass the first thing in the morning 
on rising, drink once or twice between meals during the 
day, the present rate of mortality would be greatly reduced, 
and there would be much less sickness. The habit of self- 
indulgence and exposure, the result of swilling beer and 
other alcoholic stimulants at irregular hours, are productive 
of more disease than any other agency. 

II. Don't be afraid 
to work ; few people 
are injured by hard 
work if they take but 
proper care of their 
body. More people 
die from want of ex- 
ercise than from over- 
exercise. 



"Pure water, temper- 
ate habits and hard 
work are the best 
friends of man." 

"Better hunt in fields 
for health unboug.^t. 
Than fee the doctor 
for a nauseous 
draught." 

— Dryden. 

Gladstone, a man hale and vigorous 
at the age of 86 year*. 

4 ' — ^ 




60 



Cleanliness. 



CLEANLINESS. 
Cleanliness.— The Dutch are the cleanliest people in 
the world, and the latest published statistics show that 
Holland, in proportion to its population, is the most moral 
nation on the globe. It is very easy to find a direct con- 
nection between the cleanliness of a people and their moral 
standard. 

Tidiness.— Of all the external aids to a moral life none 
is so potent as tidiness. An untidy man or woman soon 
becomes a moral sloven. Let a man be careless of his 
surroundings, of his companionships, of his dress, his gen- 
eral appearance and of his bodily habits, and it is not long 
before the same carelessness extends into the realm of 
his morals. 

Onr Sarronndings. — We are all creatures of our sur- 
roundings, and we work and act as we feel. If a man 
lives in a home where carelessness or untidiness in his 
dress is overlooked, he very soon goes from one inex- 
actitude to another. He very quickly loses himself. The 
moral fiber of a man, fine of itself, can soon become 
coarse if the influence of his external surroundings is 
coarse. I believe thoroughly in the effect of a man's dress 
and habits of person upon his moral character. I do not 
say that neatness of appearance and cleanliness of person 
constitute the gentleman or the man of honor. But I do 
say that they are potent helps. And I would like to em- 
phasize the importance of this belief upon the women of 
our homes. For it is given them to be an important fac- 
tor in these helps to the betterment of the world's moral- 
ity. _ 

Business Men. — The average American man is a busy 
creature, and amid the larger business affairs which absorb 
him he is apt to be neglectful of smaller things. And these 
smaller things generally take the form of a neglect of per- 
sonal habits. 

Woman's Inflnonce.— Here is where the wife, mother 

or sister comes in. The American woman is very largely 
responsible for the appearance of our men. The bet- 
ter the appearance of our men the higher will be the stand- 
ard of morality, the more potent our influence as a 
nation. I have often looked at men in business and 
wondered where their wives were when they left home. 
Unshaved, practically unwashed, save for a few splashes 
of water in the face, with either frayed or soiled linen, 
with clothes unbrushed or shoes unblacked, they appear 
at their places of business. 



Cleanliness. 



61 



Developed or Neglected.— Now a man rarely works 
better than he looks; certainly never better than he 
feels. And if a man feels unkempt, the work he doe? 
will probably be of the same grade. If, on the other 
hand, he feels clean, he works clean. The feeling of the 
worker inevitably communicates itself to his work. It is 
not that the majority of men are, by nature, unclean. 
The desire for cleanliness is born in every human being. 
It is simply a question whether it is developed or neg- 
lected. 

Late Rising. — But, rising late, some men devote fifteen 
or twenty minutes to dressing, gulp down what passes 
for a breakfast, and rush of? to their business. Now, 
no man, I care not how dexterous he may be, nor how 
simple his dress, can make himself look decent in fifteen 
minutes. I have heard of men who boasted that they 
could, and did it every morning. But I have yet to see 
one who did not show the results of the achievement (?) 
on his person. Either he is unshaved, or, if the razor is 
not one of his implements of necessity, the bath is neg- 
lected, his shoes lack polish, or his clothes look as if 
they had been thrown on instead of put on. 

Small Things. — Many men laugh at what they call 
these "small things." They will tell you that "in busi- 
ness such things are not noticed," that "they cut no 
figure," or that "it is only the fop who regards these 
things." But cleanliness of body and neatness of ap- 
pearance are noticed in business. More than that, they are 
a distinct factor in a man's success. There is a great 
difference between the neatly-dressed man and the fop. 
We are too apt to go to extremes in this belief. 

Tidy Appearance. — The man of tidy appearance is an 
important factor in the atmosphere of his office; the fop 
passes for what he is — nothing. Because a man is 
neat in his dress he is not necessarily a fop. There is a 
happy and sensible medium. A man is not to be 
dubbed a "crank," a "feminine man" or a "fop" who is 
careful of his appearance at all times. Neatness is a 
current coin in business, and the man who refuses to 
believe it or is regardless of it makes a fatal mistake. 

A Better BhaIiims Man. — The man who makes a point 
of keeping himself clean, and whose clothes look neat, no 
matter how moderate of cost they may be, works better, 
feels better, and is in every sense a better business man 
than his fellow-worker who is disregardful of both his 



62 



Cleanliness. 



body and dress, or either. He works at a distinct ad- 
vantage. The external man unquestionably influences the 
internal man. 

The Mornlngr Bath.— I would give far more for the 
work done by a man who has the invigorating moral 
tonic of a morning bath and the feeling of clean linen 
than I would for the work done by a man who scarcely 
washes, and rushes into his clothes. Where the bath- 
tub has as yet not made its appearance, the vigorous 
morning "rub-down" is a substitute within the reach of 
every man. 

A Hasty Beginning.— A man begins his day badly 
when he hurries and rushes at the beginning of it The 
men who have tried both ways know best how potent 
a factor in their lives is a reasonable time of leisure 
between their rising and their departure for business. 
The time spent upon our bodies is never wasted; on 
the contrary, it is time well invented. A machine of 
metal and steel must be clean before it can do good work. 
So, too, the human machine. A disregard of the body 
and disorder in dress soon grow into moral slovenliness. 
The temper which governs our care of ourselves and 
our appearance soon becomes the temper where moral 
things are concerned. 

A Bad Habit. — Inexactitude grows easily and rapidly. 
It soon becomes a habit in all things. Life travels 
more quickly on the downward grade than it does on the 
upward path. It is so much easier to be neglectful of 
small things than it is to be r'egardful of them. But, 
all the same, it is a wise woman who, careful of the 
small things about the life of the men of her home, keeps 
her husband, son or brother up to his highest standard. 
Her labor will come back to her tenfold. 

Task Kot Easy. — Such a policy is not easy of accom- 
plishment in some cases. There are men who resent what 
they choose to call the "interference" of their wives in 
matters purely personal. But the things of best results 
in this world are always the most difficult ones to 
acquire. Slovenliness is a hard habit to cure. But it can 
be cured. And the most arduous campaign where a 
man's cleanliness and neatness are concerned is worth 
the results once they are attained. Many men grow 
careless simply from forgetfulness or habit. A mere 
reminder of their duty to themselves is often all-suf- 
ficient 



Bathing. 



fil 




BATHING. 



Bathing* — More and more the Americans are becom- 
ing known as a bathing people. The most moderate 
house of the working-man now has its bathing room. In 
homes of more liberal outlay the bathroom connects with 
the sleeping-room. Servants in such homes are also given 
their own bathroom. Old-fashioned houses are having a 
bath put in. New hotels are built with bathrooms at- 
tached to the majority of their bedrooms. On every hand, 
the bath is becoming a national institution. Greater 
strides have been made in sanitary plumbing than in any 
part of the domestic machinery. The influence with us has 
been for good, and it is extending to other nations. 

England's Advance. — While the English still use the 
"hip-baths" in their rooms they are gradually beginning to 
adopt the bathrooms. All the new houses and hotels in 
England have private bathrooms, an unheard-of thing 
until recently. All over Europe the innovation is being 
accepted just as surely even though more slowly. And the 
thousands of traveling Americans who insist upon their 
bath in the morning have brought about this change. 
Even in France, where the bath is considered more of a 
luxury than a necessity, the adoption of the bathroom is 
becoming apparent. 



64 



Bathing. 



When and How. — Dr. Cyrus Edson, ex-President of 
the New York Board of Health, writes concerning bath- 
ing: "A cold douche or any form of shower bath should 
not be used when a person is tired or exhausted from any 
cause, as the reaction on which the shock depends for its 
beneficial effect does not follow effectually when the system 
is tired. The result of the shower m such a case is apt 
to be internal congestion, which may be disastrous. It 
does not follow, however, that a perspiring person should 
not bathe until cooled off. As a matter of fact, if the per- 
son is not exhausted, the fact that the pores are open is 
rather advantageous than otherwise, as the reaction is 
enhanced and will probably follow more energetically. 

Not Near Meal Time.— A bath should never be taken 
within two hours of a hearty meal. The first effect of 
immersion in warm or in cold water is to derange seriously 
the digestive process if that is progressing at the time, 
and by a physiological effect that naturally follows, to 
unbalance or derange the whole nervous system. The re- 
sult of this is extremely dangerous to the bather. There 
are numerous instances of severe illness and even of death 
caused by bathing while the stomach was full." 

Danger After Meals. — Sudden immersion of the body 
in cold water after a meal and while the process of diges- 
tion is going on may be attended with danger; at such a 
time the abdominal system is the seat of intense physio- 
logical congestion and the accumulation of blood in it is 
suddenly thrown back toward the nervous centers, and the 
consequence may be a disorder resulting in death. 

Beauty in the Bath. — For a beautiful bath, which is 
very luxurious, the temperature of the water should be 
from 70 to 75 degrees, and the bath should be of daily oc- 
currence. With this should be used the bran and almond- 
meal bags, which can be had from any druggist. One for 
much less expense can make them at home by mixing well 
one and one-half pounds of clean, new bran, and one-half 
pound of pulverized orris root, three-quarters of a pound 
of almond meal, and five ounces of grated white Castile 
soap. Make seven-inch cheesecloth bags, and put about 
four ounces into each one, sewing them firmly at the 
edges, using one for each bath, just as you would a 
sponge, without soap. The bran and almond-meal bags 
are luxuries, not necessities, in the bath, and while they 
add softness and fragrance, will not do away with the 
necessity of scrubbing in order to produce cleanliness 

Beautiful Women.— The world's most beautiful women 



Bathing. 



65 



from Greek and Roman days down to the modern Turkish 
seraglio, have always been of those countries where bath- 
ing and anointing have been brought to the perfection of 
a fine art. 

Patting (not rubbing) with soft cloths wet in "April 
Snow-water or June rain-water," combined with Pears' 
soap or some of the best "buttermilk" brands, then softly 
patting again with a dry cloth, ought not to injure the 
texture or bloom of the loveliest wild-rose complexion. 
But it must not be forgotten that the whole body needs 
daily treatment, also, since good circulation is one of the 
secrets of good coloring. 

No Fixed Rule.— It is impossible to give any rule 
about bathing which will apply to all persons. Each in 
this must be a law unto himself. In nothing does the de- 
sire, so common among mankind, to have others conform 
to the rule of life adopted by one's self, so often show 
itself as in the advice given on the subject of baths. You 
hear some strong man, who delights in the bracing shock 
of cold water when he rises from his warm bed, not only 
dilate on the value of the bath taken as he takes it, but 
seriously advise others to adopt his rule — those others, 
be it understood, being persons who could not possibly 
stand the shock of a cold bath. Again, you will hear a man 
who resorts to the Turkish bath three or four times a 
week, and derives great benefit therefrom, urge his friend 
to follow his example, when such a system of bathing 
would probably prostrate the friend. 

Personal Feelings. — The number and temperature of the 
baths, when they are taken merely for the purpose of 
cleanliness, must be regulated by the personal feelings of 
the bather. It may, however, be said that every one can 
take baths in some form, and emphatically every one 
should. 

Cannot Bathe Too Often.— As long as the result of 

bathing is not to weaken the bather we can practically say 
a person cannot, when in health, bathe too much. 

Physical Culture. — I have spoken of the hygienic value 
of the bath, but I have said nothing of the physical pleas- 
ure to be derived from it. Every one knows the delicious 
feeling of cleanliness, the glow of the skin, and the general 
sense of robust health which follow a good bath. What is 
more delightful than the exhilaration of a swim in salt 
water? These results are a part of the experience of all, 
but it must not be forgotten that in these very physical 
pleasures there is a distinct hygienic effect. 



66 



Bathing. 



f •> Oar Girls.— VoQr skin and your eyes, my dear girl, 
constitute the thermometer that tells whether you are well, 
physically, or not. If the first has little spots upon it, is 
dull to look at, and feels dry, and the second has a glazed 
appearance, with yellowish whites, then be sure it is time to 
think whether you are living rightly from the physical 
standpoint. Now, what does your morning bath amount 
to? Po you dab over your face, whirl the cloth around 
your neck, carefully bathe your hands, and then go out 
of the bathroom fully satisfied that you are quite clean? 
There are thousands of girls who consider this all that is 
necessary, and yet, as the old darky mammy would say, 
''That's nothing more than a lick and a promise." 

The Morning Bath.— I do not recommend for any girl 
i«* this country a perfectly cold bath. American women 
ar"- inclined to be nervous and are not over-strong, conse- 
quently the wisest thing to do is to plunge into water that 
is tepid, and which, when one gives one's self a thorough 
rubbing, will not cause the much-to-be-dreaded cold. This 
morning bath is taken for cleanliness, and it is the only 
way, unless, indeed, one stands up and is carefully 
sponged, by which one can be sure of perfect physical 
sweetness? Use soap? Plenty of it. But this soap does 
not need to be of an expensive kind, and the wise girl is 
that one who chooses the simplest quality and one that is 
not scented. 

Hot Bath. — A hot bath, which is desirable at least once 
a week, should be taken at night, and the tired girl will be 
surprised to find, not only how restful it is, but how per- 
fectly delicious her own body feels when she lies down 
and her eyelids gradually fall over the eyes weary of look- 
ing all the day long. 

Wash Cloth, — The cheap napery that is sold makes a 
good wash cloth, for you must remember that, while the 
sponge is desirable in the bath, something more than a 
sponge is required to make one absolutely clean. By-the- 
bye, a light quality of flannel, one combining cotton with 
wool, is also desirable for a cloth. It is only after one has 
grown accustomed to the morning bath that one realizes 
all that it means, how, in the best way, it wakens one up, 
mentally and physically, and starts one out ready to begin 
the work of another day. 

A Hot Bath Brings Sleep.— Suppose a person be tired 
out by overwork of any kind, to feel nervous, irritable, and 
worn, to be absolutely certain that bed means only tossing 
for hours in an unhappy wakefulness. We all know this 



Bathing. 



67 



condition of the body and mind. Turn on the hot water 
in the bathroom and soak in the hot bath until the 
drowsy feeHng comes, which will be within three minutes; 
rub yourself briskly with a coarse Turkish towel until the 
body is perfectly dry, and then go to bed. You will sleep 
the sleep of the just, and rise in the morning wondering 
how you could have felt so badly the night before. The 
bath has saved many a one from a sleepless night, if not 
from a severe headache the next day. 

A Healthful Practice. — As a rule, every person should 
take a daily bath — some kind of a wash all over the body. 
After the teeth, face, neck and hands have been cleansed 
it is a good practice to take a sponge or towel bath, fol- 
lowed by a vigorous rubbing with a rough towel. It is a 
good rule to first wet the head. 

Systematic Bathing is undoubtedly the best of all pre- 
ventives against all ordinary diseases and equally so 
against epidemics, as the following facts from official au- 
thority clearly show: During the fatal visitation of the 
cholera in Paris and Lyons in 1832, out of 16,218 sub- 
scribers to the public baths only two deaths among them 
could be traced to cholera. Comment is unnecessary. 

The Skin. — The entire skin with its immense network 
of nerves and myriads of pores, should be made and kept 
clean by daily bathing and friction. A hot rubbing bath, 
with soap, may be followed by a pouring or sponging 
with cold water; then dry with towels and plenty of rub- 
bing. 

Patients. — All patients need some kind of bath daily— a 
washing of the whole body with sponge, towel, the hands 
or in any convenient manner. Persons who chill may be 
first washed with warm water and then quickly sponged 
over with cold. A brisk rubbing will not fail to bring on 
a reaction and a toning up of the nerves. 

The Cleansing Bath.— This should be taken at least once 
a week. With sponge or towel or the hand apply warm 
water over the body. Then soap until there is a perfect 
lather. Then water and soap and finish with a sponge or 
towel bath of cold water, followed by a good rubbing 
with dry towels. 

The Towel Bath. — This can be taken when one can get 
a pint of water and two towels. Fold one towel and dip it 
into the water. Squeeze out some so that you do not wet 
the floor. Wash face and head as far as you can reach, and 
the two arms, then more water and wash the front of 
the body and the thighs. Now open the length of the 
towel wet all the middle portion, and, taking it by the two 



68 



Bathing. 



ends, pass it over the nefck and saw all down the back, 
fold in four and have another dash down in front and finish 
with legs and feet. Now wipe dry, and rub briskly all 
over with a dry towel, the rougher the better. 

Prevention Against Colds. — A daily towel bath, which 
can be taken in any carpeted room, without spilling a drop 
of water, is an excellent prevention against cold, helps the 
appetite and digestion, and is a good means of preventing 
constipation. 

Reaction. — Within a reasonable time after a bath the 
body in all its parts should become naturally warm. If this 
is not the case the bath has done no good. 

Exercise. — Exercise should be taken after the bath until 
circulation is fully restored. Where this cannot be done 
friction by rubbing should take its place. 

PRACTICAL RULES FOR BATHING. 

1. Bathe at least once a week all over, thoroughly. No 
one can preserve his health by neglecting personal clean- 
liness. Remember, "Cleanliness is akin to Godliness." 

2. Only mild soap should be used in bathing the body. 

3. Wipe quickly and dry the body thoroughly with a 
moderately coarse towel. Rub the skin vigorously. 

4. Many people have contracted severe and fatal dis- 
eases by neglecting to take proper care of the body after 
bathing. 

5. If you get a good reaction by thoroughly rubbing in 
a mild temperature, the effect is always good. 

6. Never go into a cold room, or allow cold air to enter 
the room until you are dressed. 

7. Bathing in cold rooms and in cold water is positively 
injurious, unless the person possesses a very strong and 
vigorous constitution, and then there is great danger of 
laying the foundation of some serious disease. 

8. Never bathe within two hours after eating. It injures 
digestion. 

9. Never bathe when the body or mind is much ex- 
hausted. It is liable to check the healthful circulation. 

10. A good time for bathing is just before retiring. The 
morning hour is a good time also, if a warm room and 
warm water can be secured. 

11. Never bathe a fresh wound or broken skin with cold 
water; the wound absorbs water, and causes swelling and 
irritation. 

12. A person not robust should be very careful in bath- 
mg; great care should be exercised to avoid any chilline 
effects. ^ 



All the Different Kinds of Baths. 



Bll tbe different Ikmbs ot iBatb^ 
anD Ibovv to prepare Ubem. 

THE SULPHUR BATH. 

For the itch, ringworm, itching, and for other slight skla 
Irritations, bathe in water containing a little sulphur. 

THE SALT BATH. 

To open the pores of the skin, put a little common salt Into 
the water. Borax, baking soda or lime used in the same way 
are excellent for cooling and cleansing the skin. A very smaM 
quantity in a bowl of water is sufficient. 

THE VAPOR BATH, 

1. For catarrh, bronchitis, pleurisy, inflammation of the 
lungs, rheumatism, fever, affections of the bowels and kid- 
neys, and skin diseases, the vapor-bath is an excellent remedy. 

2. Apparatus.— Use a small alcohol lamp, and place over it 
a small dish containing water, liight the lamp and allow the 
water to boil. Place a cane-bottom chair over the lamp, and 
seat the patient on it. Wrap blankets or quilts around the 
chair and around the patient, closing it tightly about th« 
neck. After free perspiration is produced the patient should 
be wrapped in warm blankets, and placed in bed, so as to con- 
tinue the perspiration for some time. 

3. A convenient alcohol lamp may be made by taking a tin 
box, placing a tube in it, and putting in a common lamp wick. 
Any tinner can make one in a few minutes, at a trifling cost. 

THE HOT-AIR BATH. 
\. Place the alcohol lamp under the chair, without the dish 
Of water. Then place the patient on the chair, as in the vapor 
bath, and let him remain until a gentle and free perspiration 
is produced. This bath may be taken from time to time, as 
may be deemed necessary. 

2. While remaining in the hot-air bath the patient may drink 
freely of cold or tepid water. 

3. As soon as the bath is over the patient should be washed 
with hot water and soap. 

4. The hot-air bath is excellent for colds, skin diseases, and 
the gout. 



70 



Alt the Different Kinds of Baths. 



THE SPONGE BATH. 

1. Have a large basin of water of the temperature of 88 <M 
95 degrees. As soon as the patient rises rub the body ovei 
with a soft, dry towel until it becomes warm. 

2. Now sponge the body with water and a little soap, at the 
same time keeping the body well covered, except such portions 
as are necessarily exposed. Then dry the skia carefully with 
a soft, warm towel. Rub the skin well for two or three min- 
utes, until every part becomes red and perfectly dry. 

3. Sulphur, lime or salt, and sometimes mustard, may be 
used in any of the sponge-baths, according to the disease. 

THE FOOT BATH. 

1. The foot-bath, In coughs, colds, asthma, headaches and 
fevers, is excellent. One or two table-spoonfuls of ground 
mustard added to a gallon of hot water, is very beneflcial. 

2. Heat the water as hot as the patient can endure it, and 
gradually increase the temperature by pouring In additional 
quantities of hot water during the bath. 

THE SITZ BATH. 

A tub is arranged so that the patient can sit down In It while 
bathing. Fill the tub about one-half full of water. This is 
an excellent remedy for piles, constipation, headache, gravel, 
and for acute and inflammatory affections generally. 

THE ACID BATH. 

Place a little vinegar in water, and heat to the usual temper- 
ature. This is an excellent remedy for the disorders of the 
liver. 



A Sope Cape fotr Pfickly ]4eat. 

1. Prickly heat is caused by hot weather, by excess of flesh, 
by rough flanuels, by sudden changes of temperature, or by 
over-fatigue. 

2. Treatment.— Bathe two or three times a day with warm 
water, in wliich a moderate quantity of bran and common soda 
lias been stirred. After wiping the skin dry, dust the affected 
parts with common corn starch. 



Vegetables and Fruits. 



7) 



HEALTH IN VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 

Water cress is a remedy for scurvy. 
Carrots for those suffering with asthma. 
Asparagus is used to induce perspiration and purges the 
blood. 

Turnips for nervous disorders and scurvy. 
Spinach is useful to those suffering with gravel. 
Lettuce is useful for those suffering from insomnia. 
Blackberries as a tonic. Useful in all forms of diarrhea. 
Cranberries for erysipelas are used externally as well 
as internally. 

Bananas are useful as a food for those suffering from 
chronic diarrhea 

Walnuts give nerve or brain food, muscle, heat and 
waste. 

Pine kernels give heat and stay. They serve as a sub- 
stitute for bread. 

Apples supply the higher nerve and muscle food, but 
do not give stay. 

Oranges are refreshing and feeding, but are not good 
if the liver is out of order. 

Dried figs contain nerve and muscle food, heat and 
waste; but are bad for the liver. 

Green water-grapes are purifying (but of little food 
value); reject pips and skin. 

Blanched almonds give the higher nerve or brain and 
muscle food; no heat or waste. 

Blue grapes are feeding and blood purifying; too rich 
for those who suffer from the liver. 

Juicy fruits give more or less the higher nerve or brain, 
and some few, muscle food and waste; no heat. 

Prunes afford the highest nerve or brain food; supply 
heat and waste, but are not muscle-feedmg. They should 
be avoided by those who suffer from the liver. 

Honey is wholesome, strengthening, cleansing, healing 
and nourishing. 

Pieplant is wholesome and aperient; is excellent for 
rheumatic sufferers and useful for purifying the blood. 

Lemons for feverish thirst in sickness, biliousness, low 
fevers, rheumatism, colds, coughs, liver complaints, etc. 

Celery is invaluable as a food for those suffering from 
any form of rheumatism; for disease of the nerves and 
nervous dyspepsia. 

Figs are aperient and wholesome. They are said to 



72 



Vegetables and Fruits. 



be invaluable as a food for those sufYering from cancer. 
They are used externally as well as internally. 

Salt to check bleeding of the lungs, and as a nervine and 
tonic for weak, thin-blooded invalids. Combined with hot 
water is useful for certain forms of dyspepsia, liver com- 
plaints, etc. 

Fresh ripe fruits are excellent for purifying the blood 
and toning up the system. As specific remedies, oranges 
are aperient. Sour oranges are highly recommended for 
rheumatism. 

Tomatoes are a powerful aperient for the liver, a sov- 
ereign remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion. Tomatoes 
are invaluable in all conditions of the system in which 
the use of calomel is indicated. 

Raw beef proves of great benefit to persons suffering 
from consumption. It is chopped fine, seasoned with 
salt and heated by placing in a dish in hot water. It as- 
similates rapidly and aflfords the best of nourishment. 

Peanuts for indigestion; they are especially recommend- 
ed for corpulent diabetes. Peanuts are made into a whole- 
some and nutritious soup, are browned and used as coflfee, 
are eaten as a relish, simply baked, or are prepared and 
served as salted almonds. 

Eggs contain a large amount of nutriment in a compact, 
quickly available form. Eggs, especially the yolks of eggs 
are useful in jaundice. Beaten up raw with sugar are 
used to clear and strengthen the voice. With sugar and 
lemon juice, the beaten white of egg is used to relieve 
hoarseness. 

Onions are almost the best nervine known. No medi- 
cine is so useful in cases of nervous prostration, and there 
is nothing else that will so quickly relieve and tone up 
a worn-out system. Onions are useful in all cases of 
coug*hs, colds and influenza; in consumption, insomnia, 
hydrophobia, scurvy, gravel and kindred liver complaints. 
Eaten every other day they soon have a clearing whiten- 
ing effect on the complexion. 

Apples are useful in nervous dyspepsia; they are nu- 
tritious, medicinal, and vitalizing; they aid digestion, clear 
the voice, correct the acidity of the stomach, are valuable 
in rheumatism, insomnia, and liver troubles. An apple 
contains as much nutriment as a potato in a pleasanter 
and more wholesome form. 



Health Rules. 



73 



PRACTICAL HEALTH RULES. 

1. It is no doubt a fact that health is at the command of 
most people. If people are sick, it is generally their fault, 
and not their misfortune. It is the violation of the laws 
of health that produces disease. 

2. The average life in America would be about eighty 
years if proper care were taken of the mind and body; at 
present it is only thirty-four years. 

3. To avert cold feet, wear two pairs of stockings, one 
pair of cotton or silk, the other of wool, and the natural 
heat of the feet will be preserved if they are kept clean. 

4. Late hours and anxious pursuits exhaust the system, 
and produce disease and premature death. Therefore the 
hours of labor and hard study combined should be short. 

5. Be moderate in eating and drinking; eat simple and 
plain food, avoid strong drink, tobacco, snuff, opium, 
and every excess, and your life will be lengthened many 
years. 

6. A mild temper, and a serene and placid disposition 
will preserve health and lengthen life. 

7. Never eat at irregular intervals. Regularity of meals 
is a necessity if dyspepsia and other forms of indiges- 
tion are to be avoided. Some persons are continually 
munching cakes, apples, nuts, candies, etc. This prac- 
tice cannot be too severely condemned. 

8. Never overload the stomach. Eating too much is 
about as bad as swallowing the food whole. The stomach 
is unable to digest the food, and it consequently ferments 
and produces disease. 

9. Late suppers should always be avoided. Persons who 
indulge in hearty suppers never secure as sound sleep as 
those who eat lightly early in the evening. 

10. Food should always be of good quality. Stale veg- 
etables, which have lain in the market and withered for 
a long time, or fruit that is not perfect, is very injurious 
to the health. 

11. One of the most essential things to health is a 
regular and vigorous system of bathing. Remember that 
"Cleanliness is next to Godliness." 



74 



Disease. 



DISEASE. 

Disease is a departure from health and is not a natural 
condition. If all the causes of disease could be avoided 
man might expect to live on healthfully from youthful 
vigor to a good old age. Although we may not be able 
to live free from bodily ailments, yet the voluntary habits 
of the individual affect the health conditions more than 
all other agencies combined, and in this respect we manu- 
facture our own diseases or preserve our existing state 
of health. 

Kinds* — Disease is either acute or chronic. An acute 
disease lasts but a short time and then terminates in health 
or death. A chronic disease comes on more slowly and 
lasts for a long time. Some diseases are acute in the be- 
ginning and develop into a chronic nature. Acute diseases 
are much more easily cured than chronic. 

Epidemic. — An epidemic disease attacts a number of 
persons at the same time, such as fever, smallpox, cholera, 
when they prevail to a considerable extent in any locality. 

Contagious. — A contagious disease is one that is com- 
municated, directly or indirectly, from one patient to 
another. 

Infectious. — A disease is infectious when it requires 
positive contact to cause it to spread from one person 
to another. The itch is an infectious disease. 

Hereditary. — An hereditary disease is one transmitted 
from parent to child, from ancestor to descendant. 

Malignant. — This is applied to a disease that takes on a 
severe, obstinate, and unfavorable form, while a mild dis- 
ease yields readily to curative powers. 

Extermination. — Dr. Abernethy, of London — a man of 
scientific ability — says, "Simplicity and abstemiousness in 
our dietetic habits will exterminate a growing disease, but 
to exterminate both the disease and the doctor we must 
first exterminate the purveyor and the cook." It is mani- 
fest that ail of our diseases, all pains and aches, all forms 
of sickness are produced by violations of the laws of our 
being, directly and indirectly, most of these being con- 
nected with dietetic abuses, with such as are produced by 
the use of intoxicants, tobacco and opium. 

BENEATH THE FINGER NAILS. 

Beauty and attractiveness demand that great care be 
bestowed upon the finger nails. But besides this, danger 
may be lurking beneath the nails in the form of bacteria. 



HoTV to Tell Infectious Diseases. 



75 



The idea that there is danger in being scratched by 
another person has no significance as far as the nail itself 
is concerned. The danger lies not in the nail, but in pos- 
sible bacteria under the nail, so that a self-inflicted scratch 
may be as bad as any other. 

Biting the finger nails is a bad habit, for there is the 
risk of swallowing the germs of some infectious disease. 
I tie nails have a tendency to gather particles of dust and 
dirt that may be full of germs. The best method of cleans- 
ing the nails is with a brush and plenty of soap and water. 
A slight scratch with a pin or needle under the nail has 
often resulted in introducing germs that have brought on 
the painful felon or whitelow. 

How to Tell Contagious Diseases and How Long They are 
Infectious. 

The following points will help to determine the nature of a suspicious 
LUness : 



Disease. 



Rash or Eruption. 



Appearance. 



Durat'nl 
in days. 



Chicken- 
pox. 



^btsipklas.. 
Measels 



6CARLBT 

Feveb. 

8e ALL-POX .. 

Yyphoid 

Fever. 



Small rose pimples 
changing to vesi- 
cles 

Dififuse redness and 
swelling 

Small red dots like 
flea bites 

Bright scarlet, dif- 
fused 

Small red pimples 
changing to vesi- 
cles, then pustues 

Rose-colored spots 
scattered. 



2d day of fever 
or after 24h'r's 
illness 

2d or 3d day of 
illness 

4th day of lever 
or after 72 
hours' illness. 

2d day of fever 
or after 24 
hours' illness, 

3d day of fever 
or after 48 
hours' illness. 

nth to 14th day 



6-10 
8-10 
14-21 

22-30 



Disease. 



Chicken-pox 

Diphtheria 

Measbls'' 

Mumps 

Roth ELK 

Scarlet Fever. 

Small-pox 

TyphoidFeveb. 

WH'OP'O-CO'GHt 



Symptoms 
appear. 


Period 
raugea from 


Patient is Infectious. 


On 11th day 
" 2d day 
" 14th dav 
" 19th day 
" 14th day 
'' 4th day 
" 12th day 
" 21stday 
" 14th day 


10-18 days 
2- 5 days 
10-14 days 
16-24 days 
12-20 days 
1- 7 days 
1-14 days 
1-28 days 
7-14 days 


Until all scabs have fallen oGT. 
14d's after dis'pear'ce of membr'ne 
Until Bcali'gandco'gh haveceas'd 
14 days from commencement. 
10-14 days from commencement. 
Until a scaling has ceased. 
Until all scabs have fallen off. 
Until diarrhoea ceases. 
Six wks. from beginning to wh'op 



■'■In measels the patient is infectious three days before the eruption 
appears. 

fin whooping-cough the patient is infectious during the primary 
oOugh, which may be three weeks beioie the whooping begins. 



76 The Wonderful Revelations of the Microscope. 

The Wonderful Revelations of the Microscope. The Discovery 
of the Invisible Assailants of Health. 

The microscope has revealed a new 
kingdom of invisible life. The air we 
breathe, the water we drink, the air 
above us and the earth beneath us, are 
filled with countless myriads of little 
bodicF, known as "microbes," "bac- 
teria ' "bacilli," etc. They are the 
mof insidious, relentless and powerful 
eneiiiies to human life, and destroy 
more lives than war, famine, fire, mur- 
der, shipwreck, and all other casualties 
combined. There is scarcely a disease 
known to mankind which is not due to 
the entrance of these " microbes" into 
the body. Disease is simply the mani- 
festation of their presence. They feed 
upon the blood and tissue until de- 
stroyed, or death destroys their victim. 
All acute contagious diseases, such as small-pox, chicken 
pox, scarlet fever, typhus fever, measles, influenza, whooping 
cough, hydrophobia etc., are the results of living microbes 
which have gained access to the blood or tissue. 

Another class of microbes, says Dr. Samuel Hart, are 
called miasmatic contagions. The germs are propagated in dis- 
eased persons, but, as a law of their further development, they 
must undergo one change outside of the body, in some decern- 
posing organic body, before they can again produce their pecu- 
liar disease in healthy persons except by inoculation. Typhoid 
fever, yellow fever, cholera, diphtheria, acute consumption, 
erysipelas, etc.. belong to this class of disease. 

When the microbes originate entirely in decomposing mat- 
ter, continues Dr. Hart, the diseases caused are intermittent 
fever, remittent fever, continued malarial fever, etc. 




How Microbes or Bacteria Attack the Body. 



77 




Lock-Jaw Bacteria. 

HOW MICROBES OR BACTERIA ATTACK 
THE BODY. 

Microbes gain access to the human body principally 
through the mouth, but they may also effect an entrance 
through a wound, or even an invisible breach of the skin's 
surface. They set up a disease, each after its kind, by 
lighting up a fire of inflammation in the place where they 
take up their quarters, and by manufacturing poisonous pro> 
ducts which intensify the mischief. 

Pursuing their advantage, they scatter themselvea 
throughout the body, using the blood-vessels as convenient 
channels for the purpose. 

Taking the lungs as an illustration, when a microbe which 
engenders consumption gains a footing in those organs, it 
first "squats" so to speak, in one spot, and proceeds to cul- 
tivate the ground it has found, in its own way. The deadly 
seed is sown and a crop of "tubercles" is the result ; these 
slowly ripen to pursue the metaphor, and then rot, the con- 
sequence being the complete destruction of the structure of 
the lung at that point. 



78 



How to Destroy Microbes. 



HOW TO DESTROY MICROBES. 

The person, as well as the house and yard, must be kept 
clean. Cold water is, of course, most useful; but every 
man, woman and child ought to take a hot bath about 
once a week, and frequent changes of underclothing should 
be made. Still more important, perhaps, is the character 
of the drinking-water we consume, for ninety-nine cases 
out of a hundred of typhoid fever are due to contaminated 
drinking-water. Boiling for half an hour will make water 
sufficiently pure for practical safety, which can not be 
said of filtering alone. Indeed, if a filter can not be 
cleaned, instead of being a blessing it is a curse, and a 
serious source of danger. There appears to be but one 
satisfactory filter in the market, and it is not altogether 
adapted for use in private houses. 

If there has been sickness in the house, additional pre- 
cautions ought to be taken. The paper on the walls of the 
sick-room should be removed and burnt; the walls and 
ceiling should then be washed with a solution consisting 
of one part of bichloride of mercury to i,ooo parts of 
water. This germ-destroyer, often called corrosive subli- 
mate, is a deadly poison, and must be handled with great 
care. All bed-linen and other clothing from the room oc- 
cupied by the sick person should be boiled for no less 
than three hours, and to every four gallons of water used 
for this purpose one pound of sulphate of zinc may be 
added. 

Cats and dogs are a serious source of danger if they 
have been permitted to roam around promiscuously at 
their own sweet will, as they carry the germs of disease 
with them, and quite frequently convey most serious dis- 
orders not only to children, but to grown persons. As 
there is no satisfactory method of sterilizing tnese ani- 
mals, it is best to have none of them about the house un- 
less they can be kept within bounds. 

Fresh air, pure water, and sunshine are the deadly 
microbe's worst enemies, and attention to a few simple 
hygienic rules will enormously lessen the chances of dis- 
ease, while, if a few simple precautions, such as those 
already mentioned, are neglected, the probability of some 
microbic disorder attacking some member of the house- 
hold is consiacrably increased. 



How to Disinfect a Room. 



79 



HOW TO DISINFECT A ROOM. 

We present our readers with an abstract of a recent 
lecture by J. H. Kellogg, M. D. 

The best means to disinfect a room which has been 
occupied by a consumptive or a person suffering from any 
other infectious disease is to burn sulphur in it. To do 
this, take a dishpan and place a flat plate in the bottopi 
of it, and on this set a kettle containing the proper quanti- 
ty of sulphur mixture — equal quantities of sulphur and 
charcoal. Fill the pan with water so that it comes half way 
up on the kettle. Then turn alcohol or benzine on the 
mixture, ignite and get out of the room as speedily as 
possible. Alcohol is much the best to use, and two or 
three ounces will be sufficient for several pounds of sul- 
phur. Let the room remain closed for twenty-four hours. 

Preyious Preparation. — The room should be prepared 
previously by having every crack about doors and win- 
dows tightly pasted or stopped up. The object of using 
water is that the heat of the kettle will cause evaporation 
and send moisture out into the room, for the spores 
being very tenacious of life, dry sulphur fumes are not 
sufficient to kill them all. In the dry state the product is 
simply oxide of sulphur, but when water is added we 
have sulphuric acid, which is powerful enough to kill the 
spores as well as the germs. 

Sufficient Quantity.— It is of the utmost importance 
that a sufficient quantity of the sulphur be used to make 
the work effective. I have seen people attempt to disin- 
fect a large room with a handful of sulphur barely suffi- 
cient to disinfect a dry-goods box. It amounts to nothing 
whatever. Ascertain the size of the room, and burn three 
pounds of sulphur for every i,ooo cubic feet of air. Take, 
for instance, a room which is 12 by 15 feet floor measure- 
ment, and 10 feet high, which gives a cubica' contents 
of 1,800 fee*:. This is so nearly 2,000 that it would be best 
to take six pounds of sulphur to disinfect it. 

Chloride of Lime. — Some people distribute a handful of 
dhloride of lime about, which gives a sanitary smell, but is 
really of no value. Many strange notions as to disinfec- 
tion prevail, and all sorts of valueless recommendations 
are going the rounds of the papers. For instance, I called 
upon a patient once and found a tub of water under the 
bed, and it was explained to me that it was for the 
purpose of absorbing germs. Others will set powdered 
charcoal around on trays, or a little chloride of lime on a 



1 



80 How to Disinfect a Room. 

saucer. Some people seem to imagine that the germs are ' 

going to hunt up the disinfectant and destroy themselves. \ 
A strong solution of copperas will kill all the germs it 
touches, but not the spores or seeds of the germs. 

Half a pound of chloride of lime to a gallon of water 

makes a good disinfectant to destroy germs in excreta, ! 

provided the chloride of lime is good, but the most of \ 
it is poor, having lost its disinfectant properties. 

Corrosive Sublimate. — Another excellent disinfectant is j 
corrosive sublimate, but it is too dangerous for common i 
use, unless kept under lock and key. It is best used in ' 
connection with permanganate of potash, one drachm of 
each to a gallon of water. This will make a reddish or 
purplish solution, and if marked poison, and handled ; 
with care, will be dangerous chiefly to germs. This solu- ] 
tion is equal to about one part in a thousand of each, ( 
and the corrosive sublimate will destroy the germs, and j 
the permanganate of potash will destroy the odors as well ■ 
as furnish coloring matter. A solution of corrosive sub- 
limate alone is colorless, odorless, and nearly tasteless, • 
which facts greatly increase the risks of using it. About 
one part in 20,000 is sufficient to kill germs, but to dis- 
infect excreta it is necessary to use a strong solution, the 1 
bulk of the disinfectant equaling that of the excreta. ■ 

Clothing'. — For disinfecting the clothing ixom the bed j 

and the patient, soak for four hours, either in a solu- 1 

tion of corrosive sublimate and water or the same length \ 

of time in a two per cent, solution of carbolic acid. The \ 

latter is to be preferred for general purposes, for it will , 

not afYect the texture, while corrosive sublimate will ; 

shrink flannel clothing and make it harsh. j 

Walls and Floor.— A solution of corrosive sublimate ^ 
may be used to disinfect a room by washing the walls 
and floor in it, but the permanganate of potash must be 

left out from this as well as from the solution for disin- \ 

fecting clothing, for it will stain. To set any of these ' 

things in a room does no good; a disinfectant must be dis- ' 
tributed to be available. 

A Good Disinfectant.— Dr Stone says: "All authorities, ' 

I believe, are agreed in giving the preference to chlorine, ! 

which may be evolved by mixing in a bottle two table- ! 

spoonfuls of common salt, two tablespoonfuls red lead i 

and one-half a wineglassful of strong oil of vitriol in a i 

quart of water. The bottle should be kept cool, tightly : 

stopped and in a dark place. A little of this fluid exposed : 

in a- saucer, sprinkled on the floor, or soaked in sheets of ; 



i 



Sanitation. 



81 



old linen and hung about the rooms, rapidly destroys 
effluvia. Green copperas (sulp'hate of iron) one pound, 
dissolved in a gallon of water, is another very excellent 
agent, and the same may be said of the fumes of sulphur 
(sulphurous acid) for unoccupied rooms. Chloride of 
lead solution is another potent fluid; it is cheap, involves 
very little trouble, is instantaneous in its effect and per- 
fectly safe. Indeed, any of the above will be found to 
destroy the rankest compound or villainous smell that ever 
oflfended the nostril." 

Copperas. — The very best disinfectant and deodorizer 
known is copperas. A double handful dissolved in a 
bucket of water and used to wash drain pipes and re- 
ceptacles of waste material will keep such places above 
suspicion. The water in pitchers and flower-holders 
should be changed every day. On attention to such seem- 
ingly trivial details may hang a human life. 

Carbolic Acid. — When it is required to use carbolic acid 
as a disinfectant, it should be mixed with boiling water. 
This promptly overcomes the usual antagonism between 
the acid and the water, and converts them into a perma- 
nent solution which will keep for weeks. 

SANITATION ABOUT THE HOME. 

Cleanliness. — The maxim "Health is wealth" is not ap- 
preciated as a truism; more frequently health is only prized 
as a blessing when it is wanting. The health of the 
household depends upon the scrupulous cleanliness of the 
premises more than upon any other one thing. The 
responsibility for this must largely rest with the house 
mother, she being the one usually more sensible of any 
needed change, and so the plainest and simplest exposi- 
tions of sanitary science should be familiar to her. 

Drains and Sinks. — The location of drains and sinks 
should be carefully considered and their condition fre- 
quently inspected. The drain pipe from a kitchen sink 
should lead for rods away from the house and let the out- 
let reach the roots of trees or shrubs which specially 
delight in moisture, as the willow or the quince. Never 
use an open box to convey any form of slops. Wood is 
often used as a conductor pipe, but in a short time it be- 
comes thoroughly saturated with filth, and thus a breeder 
of disease and a menace to health. Tile is better than 
wood, and being porous, much of the moisture oozes out 
as it passes along. 

Iron Pipes are good as long as they last, but will rust 



Sanitation, 



83 



in the course of time. Lead is the best and most durable 
of all, but is also the most expensive. However, if the ex- 
pense of a lead drainage pipe is set over against a doc- 
tor's bill and other expenses incident to sickness, it will 
be cheap in comparison, and who would consider it for a 
moment when weighed against the precious life of some 
member of the family. 

Disinfectant.— Whatever material is used as a conductor, 
the drain should be flushed with some good disinfectant 
solution as often as once a week in warm weather. Cop- 
peras is as good as anything for ordinary use and has 
the advantage of being cheap. It can be procured of a 
druggist for about three or five cents a pound. Dissolve 
in the proportion of one-fourth of a pound to a gallon of 
water and use very freely. Plug the outlet and pour 
enough into the sink to fill the pipe its full length. Use 
the solution as near the boiling point as convenient, for 
the reason that a hot fluid is more penetrating than a cold 
one, an advantage if tile or wood is used. A hot solu- 
tion is further advantageous as a solvent of whatever waste 
particles may have lodged at various points or gathered 
the length of the pipe. Dishwater usually contains more 
or less grease, and this will be melted and washed out 
if the disinfectant is poured in hot. I^otash, sal-soda and 
lye may be used instead of copperas. 

Refrigerators in which food is kept should be kept 
scrupulously clean and the pipe conveying the drippings 
from it should be entirely disconnected from the drain- 
age system of the house. Milk and butter should not be 
placed near vegetables, especially those having a strong 
smell. Place a piece of charcoal in your refrigerator. 

A Home Made Filter. — An eminent sanitarian, Dr. 
Parkes, has given directions for a home-made filter for 
drinking water. A large common flower-pot is covered 
over at the bottom, the opening and all, with a piece of 
clean flannel or of zinc gauze. Over this put a layer of 
coarse gravel about three inches deep, and over the gravel 
a layer of white sand of the same depth. Above the sand 
put four inches of charcoal, broken in fragments. If pos- 
sible use animal charcoal. Lay over the top a clean, fine 
sponge that covers it, or if you have not a sponge, a layer 
of clean flannel. The top layer, whether of flannel or 
sponge, is to be made sterile by frequent washing and 
boiling. Set the filter in a wooden frame, and under it 
put a clean vessel to receive the water as it comes through 
the filter. 



84 



Impure Water. 



DISEASE GEBMS IN DRINKING WATER, AND HOT? 
TO COMBAT THEM. 

1. Taking a little filtered beef bouillon, clear as crystal 
to the eye, and showing under the microscope not a trace of 
life, let us place it in a glass flask and, boiling it repeatedly 
to destroy any germs it may contain, set it aside in a warm 
place with the mouth of the flask open. In a few days the 
liquid previously so limpid becomes very turbid. If we 
take a drop and magnify it i,ooo diameters we shall see that 
the liquid is crowded with life, and the few ounces of bouil- 
lon contain a vaster population than our greatest cities can 
boast of. 

2. Cohn has seen bacillus in infusions at blood heat 
divide every twenty minutes. We have calculated this rate 
for twenty-four hours, and have found that at the end of the 
first day there would be as the descendants of a single ba- 
cillus 4,722,366,482,869,645,213,696 individuals ; and though 
we can pack a trillion (1,000,000,000,000) in a pubic inch, 
this number would fill about 2,500,000 cubic feet. This is 
clearly not what they do, but simply what they are capable 
of doing for a short time when temperature and food supply 
are favorable. 

3. Since the multiplication of bacteria is so favored by 
the warmth of Summer, it requires special sanitary precau- 
tion, in order to keep free from disease. 

4. Vegetable Refuse or Slop, — If garbage and slops are 
thrown about the house, you can readily see what millions 
and myriads of bacteria will form, and how the whole 
ground will soon swarm with them. They will more or less 
work their way among the things that must be eaten, or if. 
a heavy rain should come, will easily find their way into 
the well and contaminate the water. Malaria, typhoid fever, 
etc., will soon be the result. 

5. Sink Holes. — There should be a sink hole for gar- 
bage, slops and other refuse matter of the house, and this 
sinck hole should be sufficiently far from the well, so as not 
to contaminate the water. 

6. That sunshine is a germicide as well as a tonic has 
but recently been proved : if we take two flasks containing 
the bacillus with spores, and keep one in the direct sun- 
shine for a long time, while the other, exposed to the same 
heat, is kept from the sun, we find the sun-exposed spores 
have lost their virulence, while the others remain. Is there 
need to further press so patent a lesson ? As bacteria grow 
best m the presence of considerable moisture, we may ex- 



86 



hnpure Water. 



pect to encounter them in greater abundance in water than 
in air. Rain water contains 60,000 to a quart, the Vanin 
four times as many, while the polluted Seine from 5,000,000 
to 12,000,000. 

7. Eemedy for Impure Water.— The minute size of bac- 
teria renders it very difficult to use any system of filtration 
and have pure water. If the water is impure there is but 
one absolutely safe method, and that is boiling. 

8. Boiling Water. — No disease germs producing bac- 
teria can stand boiling for an hour or so. It destroys all 
vegetable and animal impurities. All doubtful water 
should be thoroughly boiled. 




Animals that dwell in Our drinking water. 



THE ANIMALS WE DRINK IN OUR WATER. 

The above illustration shows some of the animals we 
drink in impure water, which is a very prolific source of 
many diseases. 

Thousands of wells are so situated that they receive a 
drainage from filthy and decomposing matter, or are pol- 
luted by slop holes' imperfect drains, that are too closely 
adjacent to the well. 

Water from many of the wells is unfit for the human 
stomach, and some of them are as poisonous as Paris 
green. Impure water may be used for a time without any 
perceptible injury, but it is only a matter of time when it 
will develop into typhoid fever, diphtheria and many other 
diseases. 

In either case, when well water is used, people should 
look the location over carefully, to see if the lay of the land 



Impure Water. 



87 



is such as to allow decomposing matter from the surface 
of the ground or any other place to soak into the well. 
If this is the case, it should be abandoned at once if 
you value life, for it is positively known that thousands 
have lost their lives by using such water. 

Every well should be laid up with brick or lime-stone 
and cemented about four feet from the surface. That 
will make a safe protection. 

Heavy rains will often cause water to flow into wells, 
which has a very bad effect, and often develops disease 
germs. 

MALARIA AND WATER. 

The most recent scientific authorities are of the 
opinion that malaria is a water-born disease. In vast 
malarial districts, it is not the air which the inhabitants 
breathe, but the water they drink, which brings on the 
much-dreaded malarial fever. That this is the case in 
some sections of the land, has been clearly proved by the 
immunity from fever of such families as depended on fil- 
tered rain-water, and not on the wells of the country. 

It has also been noted that horses and other animals, 
brought into certain sections of the country, thrived well 
so long as they were housed and drank from the cistern 
supply of the barns, but sickened and died when left 
to wander in the fields, and drink from brooks and pools. 
If this should be clearly proven, it might be possible to 
stamp out one of the greatest evils of life in some sections 
of the country. 

It is not a difficult matter to collect the rain-water in 
a clean cistern. It should be passed through a filteritjg 
medium that is frequently renewed, as it is now known that 
a filter too long in use becomes one of the most effective 
means of contaminating the water it is intended to purify. 
The filter that is clogged up with impurities is far worse 
than none at all, and this is the condition of a great 
many cistern filters. 

As an extra precaution, even the cistern-water ought to 
be boiled, poured in a clean earthen jar, and cooled in a 
pure atmosphere. The ice formed from contaminated 
water is almost as objectionable as the unclean water itself, 
as a large number of bacteria are undisturbed by frost. 
Such a jar of boiled water should be daily renewed, as if it 
is left standing any length of time it will soon take on 
the same objectionable features as the water of the 
country. 



88 



Accidents and Emergencies. 




Accidents and Emergencies. 



HOW TO STOP BLEEDING. 

1. Cause. — Bleeding is the result of the rupture of an 
artery, vein, or other small blood vessel, and may be caused 
Dy a cut, bruise, or may take place spontaneously, 

2. Fainting. — If a person is fainting on account of loss of 
blood, do but little to rally him, as fainting tends to stop the 
bleeding. 

3. Arterial Bleeding.— If the blood is a bright scarlet 
color and comes out in throbbing jerks, it comes from an 

artery, and the fingers 
must be placed on the 
wound with considera- 
ble pressure till band- 
ages can be applied, 
or tie a handkerchief 
tightly around the limb 
or member above the 
injury and place a stick 
in it and turn it until 
the pressure is suffi- 
cient to stop the flow 
of blood. 

Arterial bleeding is the most dangerous and a physician 
should at once be sent for. 

4. Yenous Bleeding. — Venous blood is dark colored and 
flows continually. It can usually be stopped by pressure 




Accidents and Emergencies. 



89 



with the fingers or a piece of linen. The injured parts 
may be drawn together, and sticking plaster used as soon as 
the flow of blood ceases. 

$. Tight Bandag(^s. — If the limb should become purple, 
loosen the bandages a little, and if the flow of blood begins 
again it can be tightened up so as to control it until the 
physician arrives. 

6. Precaution. — If an artery is cut, compress above the 
wound, and if a vein is cut, compress below. 



7. Accidents. — When an accident happens there is usu- 
ally not much time to decide what is best to be done. Help, 
to be effectual, must be prompt, and often delay implies 
further injury or loss of life. 

It is well to fix in the mind a few general principles of 
treatment in the more common accidents. When the 
emergency arises these are recalled instinctively and form 
the basis of action. The means by which they are to be 
carried into effect follow naturally and the necessity is met. 

For simple, superficial cuts nothing more than cold 
water and lint will be required, the patient remaining quiet. 

In a lacerated wound, with small streams of blood issu- 
ing from several points, lint, cold water and ice dripped 
into the wound, together with a slight pressure over the 
region from which the blood issues, will be sufficient. 

Binding a bunch of cobwebs or a handful of flour on the 
wound, or bathing it in strong vinegar, is sometimes ef- 
fectual. 




90 



Accidents and Emergencies. 



8. Hemorrhage from the lungs is always alarming, 
but unless it is very violent, seldom threatens life im- 
mediately. Raise the head and shoulders slightly with pil- 
lows. Fill a pitcher with boiling water, pour in a tea- 
spoonful of spirits of turpentine, and let the fumes be 
inhaled. Give small pieces of ice and enforce perfect 
quiet. Blood from the lungs is bright red and frothy, 
and is coughed or spit up. 

9. The Stomach.— Blood from the stomach is dark, niixed 
with particles of food, and comes in the act of vomiting. 
The person should be kept perfectly quiet, lying down, and 
ice wrapped in a cloth or ice bag placed over the stomach. 

10. Nose Bleeding. — Epistaxis, or bleeding from the 
nose, is sometimes very troublesome. Keep the head 
thrown back, holding a wet cloth or sponge to receive 
the blood, at the same time raising the arms above the 
head. Press the fingers firmly on each side of the nose 
where it joins the upper lip. Place some cold substance, as 
a lump of ice, at the back of the neck or on the forehead at 
the bridge of the nose. If these remedies are ineffectual, 
have a little fine salt or alum sniffed into the nostrils. 

11. Ordinary Nose Bleeding may be stopped by snuff- 
ing cold water up the bleeding nostril. If this fails 
after a few trials, place a little salt into the water. Fill- 
ing the nose with a corner of the handkerchief for a few 
moments is a good remedy; or grasping the nose with 
the thumb and forefinger, and holding it firmly closed 
for a few moments, will generally cure the severest cases 
in a very short time. 

CUTS AND WOUNDS. 

1. Clean the Wound.— In case of a wound first clean it 
and wash it thoroughly with warm water, and when the 
bleeding ceases, bring the edges together, either fastening 
them with a bandage or court plaster. 

2. Sewing a Wound. — If the 

wound is very wide a few stitches 
may be necessary. Take a needle » 
and silk thread and oil both nee- 
dle and thread thoroughly with 
vaseline or pure lard. Each stitch 
should be tied into a knot, and 
should be left at least twenty-four 
hours before removing. 

3. Pieces Cut Out.— If a patch or portion is cut com- 
pletely away, quickly clean the portion cut away and replace 
It and keep it in the exact position by court plaster or 




Unusual Emergencies. 



91 



bandages. No time must be lost in the treat- 
ment of a case of this kind. 

4. Stabs. — Stabs are more dangerous than 
common wounds, and the wound must be kept 
open and never be closed up until it heals 
naturally. All persons suffering from stabs 
should remain quietly in bed until all serious 
symptoms have disappeared. 

5. Gun Shot Wounds.— All wounds of this 
character are serious and a physician should 
be promptly summoned. 

6. Sprains. — Sprains are the straining of the 
tendons and ligaments, and require great care 
and caution in their treatment. The injured 
member should be kept very quiet and band- 
aged with warm water. Then apply freely 
Arnica, Pond's Extract or the like. 





UNUSUAL EMERGENCIES. 

1. Poisoning. —When poison is swallowed, an excellent 
remedy is to mix one heaped tea-spoonful of salt and one 
heaped tea-spoonful of mustard in a glass of water and 
drink immediately. Then give the whites of two eggs m a 
cup of coffee. Give the eggs alone if the coffee cannot be 
readily secured. 

2. Treatment of Poisoned Wounds. — Suck poisoned 
wounds, unless the mouth is sore; enlarge the wound, or if 
very serious cut out the part without delay, or cauterize 
with a hot iron. 



92 



Poisoning. 



OTHER REMEDIES FOR POISONING. 

In poisoning by opium strong coffee should be given, 
the victim being kept roused and awake, if possible, until 
medical aid be obtained. 

The antidotes to arsenic are tablespoonful doses of 
dialyzed iron, magnesia and castor oil. 

Carbolic acid: Give a tablespoonful of Epsom salts 
• stirred in water, and repeat. 

Ammonia: Oil of any kind. 

Oxalic acid: Give chalk, lime, lime-water or magnesia 
freely. 

Corrosive Sublimate: White of egg and milk in quan- 
tities. 

In poisoning by an acid the use of alkalis is indicated, 
as soda, magnesia, chalk, lime and soapsuds. When the 
mischief has been wrought by strong alkalis acid must be 
used, as vinegar, lemon juice or hard cider. 

When the mucous membrane of the mouth is much in- 
flamed or destroyed give raw eggs, flour stirred jn water, 
flaxseed tea, arrowroot, or any soothing drink. Stimula- 
tion can be applied by means of hot water bottles or bags 
to the feet and over heart, and by rubbing the extremities. 
Alcoholic stimulant should be administered very cautiously 

Fainting is caused by an interruption of the supply of 
blood to the brain. The head should be lowered immedi- 
ately. Often laying the person down will revive her with- 
out other measures. The head may be allowed to hang 
over the side of the couch for a few moments. Smelling- 
salts may be held to the nose and heat applied over the 
heart to stimulate its action. Open a window or outer 
door to admit plenty of fresh air, unfasten the clothing to 
permit free circulation. In severe cases when uncon- 
sciousness is prolonged, a mustard paste must be placed 
over the heart; if the breathing stops artificial respiration 
can be begun. It is useless to try to give stimulants by 
mouth unless the person is sufficiently conscious to be able 
to swallow. The attack usually passes off in a few min- 
utes, but the invalid should be made to lie still and be kept 
•juiet for some time after it. 

ConTulsions in a grown person are always alarming. In 
children they proceed from a variety of causes, some of 
which are comparatively unimportant. A fit of indigestion 
or the irritation from cutting teeth may produce them 
Ihey may indicate the commencement of disease, but they 
are seldom fatal, and while the doctor should be sent for. 
there is no cause for immediate alarm 



Foreign Bodies in Ear, Nose, or Throat 93 

FOREIGN BODIES IN EAR, NOSE OR THROAT. 

There are few accidents more alarming to a mother than 
when a child swallows a foreign body. 

If it has gone beyond reach of the finger no special 
effort should be made to dislodge it. Nature will prob- 
ably take care of it if she is not interfered with. Emetics 
or cathartics may produce disastrous results. The only 
thing that can be done is to give a plentiful meal of soft 
food. 

Foreign Bodies in the Ear.— These do not usually occa- 
sion much discomfort for a time, and as the passage of the 
outer ear is closed at the end by a membrane they cannot 
penetrate farther, and may safely be left until they can be 
removed by a competent person. When an insect has 
entered turn the head on one side with the affected ear 
uppermost and gently pour in a little warm water. When 
this runs out the drowned intruder comes with it. 

Water should not be used when a pea or bean has been 
introduced, because they swell when moist. 

Foreign Bodies in the Nose. — These may sometimes be 
drawn out with a bent hairpin. If not easily removed in 
this way they should not be poked at. A little snuff or 
pepper may be sniffed in, or the opposite nostril tickled 
with a straw. The act of sneezing will probably dislodge 
the substance; if not it should be left for a surgeon to ex- 
tract. 

Foreign Bodies in the Throat.— This may be a very 
serious accident whether it occurs in the windpipe or the 
food passage. It demands immediate action or the result 
may be a fatal one. Send for the doctor at once, as he 
may have to open the windpipe to save the victim's life. 
Meantime slap the sufferer on the back between the shoul- 
ders. Insert the finger as far down as possible to try to 
grasp the obstruction and remove it. Turn the person's 
head downward and slap the back forcibly. 

If breathing ceases the patient should be laid on the 
back, the arms pulled upward, the hands resting on the top 
of the head, then brought down and pressed on the chest, 
repeating the movements sixteen times in a minute. 

Strangulation. — When a person is strangling, make him 
swallow the white of an egg, but do not beat it. This will 
almost certainly dislodge the obstruction, unless lodged in 
the trachea. 



94 



Sunstroke and Gas Suffocation. 



3. Choking,— If badly choked, get upon all fours and 
cough. 

4, Fish Bone in the Throat.— Press the tongue down 
with a spoon handle so as to be able to look down the throat 
and with a pair of tweezers remove the bone. If this can- 
not be done, swallow the whites of several eggs (one at a 
time), or take a big bite of bread and swallow it ; if this 
fails, send for a good surgeon at once. 




5. Sunstroke. — Remove the patient in the shade, and 
apply cold water to the head and neck, and a mustard 
plaster to the feet. Administer strong stimulants. 

6. Coal Gas Suffocation. — If the patient does not breathe, 
produce artificial respiration; place the patient on his face 
and turn the body gently, but completely, one side and a 
little beyond; then again on the face and so on alternately. 
Repeat these movements deliberately and perseveringly, 
fifteen times only in a minute. 

BURNS. 

There is no accident more terrible than severe injuries 
from fire. All well-instructed persons know that when a 
woman's dress is in flames water is almost useless to ex- 
tinguish it unless she could be plunged under it. The fire 
can be put out only by cutting off the supply of air, with- 
out which it cannot burn. This can be done by enveloping 
the person in a rug, blanket or any woolen article of suf- 
ficient size. 

Baking Soda. — The pain from slight burns is very great. 



Burns. 



95 



An excellent application is a thick paste of common bak- 
ing soda moistened with water, spread on a piece of linen 
or cotton, and bound on the part. This can be kept wet 
by squeezing water on it from a sponge or cloth until the 
smarting is soothed. 

Starch. — A thick coating of starch can be used instead 
of the soda, or wheat-flour if nothing better can be had, 
but neither should be applied if the skin is broken. In 
this case it is better to use vaseline, olive or linseed oil 
or equal parts of raw linseed oil and lime water. The doc- 
tor will apply some preparation containing carbolic acid. 

If the air can be effectually excluded from a burn the 
pain is relieved. 

Blisters should be pricked and the fluid absorbed with a 
soft cloth before applying a dressing. 

If the cloth adheres to the skin the loose part should be 
cut away and the patches of material soaked off with oil or 
warm water. 

When the injury is extensive the sufferer will be pros- 
trated and may die from the shock. Heat should be ap- 
plied to the extremeties and over the heart, and hot drinks 
given until the doctor comes. 

Burns From Acid. — In burns from a strong acid the part 
should be covered with dry baking soda or lime, as the 
alkali will neutralize the acid. No water should be used, 
but a dressing of cosmoline or oil applied after the alkali 
has been brushed off. 

When the burn has been caused by an alkali an acid 
must be used. A person recovering from the effects of a 
burn requires very nourishing food. 

Whit© of Eggs. — A soothing application for burns is 
to cover them with the white of an egg. This forms a 
coating over the injured flesh and protects it from the air. 

Another Remedy. — Some think there is nothing that 
can equal lime and lard. Take sifted air-slacked lime and 
mix with lard. Spread on a cloth. If the burn is deep, 
another plaster should be made at once to lay on. As 
soon as the lard gets warm it will begin to burn again. 
Scrape the plaster on and mix in more fresh lime. After 
the wound quits burning the plasters should be kept on 
and will heal the sore. Air-slacked lime is valuable and 
should be kept in the house at all times, as it affords in- 
stant relief for burns. 

Magic Cure. — Loose cotton, slightly moistened with lin- 
seed oil, has almost a magical effect in relieving the pains 
of severe burns. 



96 



Broken Bones, 



BROKEN BONES. 

A Broken Bone need not be set immediately. This 
knowledge saves much unnecessary anxiety when the doc- 
tor cannot be procured at once. 

The parts must be put in as comfortable position as pos- 
sible and most nearly corresponding to the natural one. It 
is necessary to give support above and below the break. 

Handle the injured part very carefully, not to force the 
rough ends of bone through the skin. 

Improvise splints of some kind — two strips of wood, a 
couple of stout book covers, or pieces of pasteboard. 
Place on one side when it is a limb that is injured, and 
bind them in place with handkerchiefs. A long pillow 
firmly tied will answer the purpose, or in case of injury to 
a leg it may be fastened to its fellow if nothing better can 
be done, remembering to tie it above and below the 
injury. 

Shoulder-Bone. — When the shoulder-bone is broken 
place the arm on the injured side across the chest, th€ 
hand touching the opposite shoulder, and fasten it in place 
by passing a broad bandage around the body. 

Fracture of the Ribs.— In fracture of the ribs pin a towel 
around the body until the doctor comes. 

In a simple fracture the bone is broken, it may be, in 
several places, but there is no deep flesh wound extending 
to the seat of the injury; when there is such a wound the 
fracture is said to be compound. 

When there is a fracture the part is unnaturally movable 
unless the ends of the bone have been driven together or 
impacted. 

Dislocation. — In a dislocation the bone is forced out of 
its socket at the joint. There is more or less deformity, 
and it is difficult to move the limb. The last point helps 
to distinguish it from the fracture. Time is of importance, 
as the swelling which supervenes increases the difficulty 
of reducing it or returning the bone to its proper place. 
Hot applications may be made if the surgeon cannot be 
had immediately. 

FOR BARB WIRE CUTS. 

Take carbolic acid i ounce, water i pint; mix. Apply 
this to the cut three or four times a day until the cavity 
gets nearly full with new flesh, and then apply mutton 
tallow. 



How to Treat a Drcwntng Person. 97 




Horn to eat a omning Person. 

Place the patient with face downward, and wrist under his 
forehead, so that the water can run out of his mouth and 
throat. Then restore breathing by turning the patient on his 
right side, and excite tlie nostrils with ammonia or snuff. 
Dash cold water upon the I'ace and chest. If this is not effec- 
tual, turn the patient first upon his face and then upon his 
back gently, at the same time pressing the back between the 
shoulder blades gently with the hand. This assists forcing 
the air out of the lungs, and will stimulate respiration. As 
soon as breathing is established, apply warm flannels and 
bottles of hot water to the stomach and feet. Hot water 
bags can be used instead of hot bottles, if it is convenient. 

HOW TO CURE A SNAKE BITE. 

The part bitten swells to enormous proportions immedi- 
ately, and assumes various colors, and the person bitten will 
pass from nausea and vomiting to delirium and unconscious- 
ness. If death does not follow from the first effects, it is 
likely to follow from the fever and inflammation of the 
wound. 

Treatment: — Suck the wound vigorously to withdraw the 
poison, and stop the circulation with a handkerchief and 
stick as shown on page 88. In all instances large and fre- 
quent drinks of brandy or whiskey with a free application 
of kerosene oil to the wound will prove an effectual remedy. 
Keep the wound tied up with a bandage soaked in kerosene 
oil. Give the patient all the liquor he can drink. It is 
always best to consult,a physician as soon as possible. 



98 



Rabies or Hydrophobia. 




EABIES OR HYDROPHOBIA. 



Immediate Treatment for Mad Dog Bite. 

If a person has been bitten by an animal suspected to be 
rabid, he should immediately suck the wound thoroughly. 
If on an extremity, bind the limb tightly between the heart 
and wound to encourage bleeding. Cleanse the wound with 
simple hot water, or a saturated solution in hot water of 
Boracic Acid, and dress with frequent renewals of the same, 
or a saturated solution of Boracic Acid in glycerine. When 
the wound is once thoroughly cleansed, it should be allowed 
to heal. Persons who have been bitten by suspected ani- 
mals should understand that not more than 16 per cent, of 
persons bitten by dogs, actually rabid, take the disease. 
The animal should be confined and watched to determine 
whether it is suffering from the disease, that the treatment 
of the victim may be decided thereby. It is best to 
ciiut<;rize the wound after cleansing it. 



Death Gas in a Well. 



09 




t)EATH GAS \\i A WEIili. 
^OLU to avoid it and hom to get fid of it. 

1. The gas which produces death in a well is what is called 
carbonic acid gas. It is much heavier than air, and conse- 
quently will always accumulate in the bottom of a well ; and 
tf an unsuspecting man goes into it he is at once suffocated, 
gasps for breath and falls ; some one not understanding the 
cause of the trouble goes down, and he will also become a vic- 
tim. Many lives are annually lost in this way. 

2. To find out whether gas has collected in the well, let 
down a light, and if it goes out there is a good deal of gas in 
Ihe well ; if it burns dimly when it comes near the bottom, 
there is sufficient gas to make it dangerous. 

3. A very good way for a man who goes down into a well is, 
to take a candle or a lamp with him, as shown in the above 
Illustration. He must hold the candle considerably below his 
mouth, or it will do no good. If the light goes out or becomes 
very dim he should stop at once, for another step might bring 
Win down into the gas, and one breath of this poisonous gas 
will render bim senseless. 



100 



Benefit of Poultices. 



4. To get rid of this gas from the bottom of the well, it 
can be dipped out with buckets, the same as water, because 
it is heavier than air. 

6. Another method is to take a bundle of straw or shav- 
ings, and set it on fire. This heats the gas and makes it 
lighter than air, and it will rise and escape. 

6. Another method. Throw slaked lime mixed with 
water down the sides of the well. This will at once absorb 
the gas. 

THE BENEFIT OF POULTICES. 

The chief object of a poultice is to supply and to retain 
heat and moisture for the relief of pain and internal con- 
gestion. The best poultice is made of ground flax seed, 
but bread, cornmeal or hominy may be substituted. 

The greatest benefit of a poultice comes from its heat; 
therefore great care should be taken to apply it very hot. 

In order to render a poultice more effective in re- 
lieving and diminishing deep-seated pain, as in the chest 
or abdomen, mustard may be added to the flax seed. This 
does not produce any unpleasant irritation of the skin, and 
is far better for ordinary purposes than a mustard plaster. 
In this case the mustard should be carefully mixed with a 
little warm water and then stirred into the flax seed just 
before it is spread upon the cloth. The amount of mustard 
depends upon the intensity of the pain and the age of the 
person. Poultices after being applied to the body should 
be covered with either oiled silk or flannel, so that the heat 
may be retained. A fresh hot poultice should be applied 
as soon as the first one cools. 

Poultices should never be made unnecessarily thick or 
heavy, and they should be frequently repeated. They 
ought always to be put on warm, and as moist as they can 
be made, without being so soft as to flow when placed 
upon the skin. When they become dry and the tempera- 
ture falls, they can do little if any good, and may possibly 
do more injury than service. 

The common poultices are useful in all cases of inflam- 
mation that cannot be cut short, to assist the process of 
suppuration and the tendency of matter to the surface. 
_ A list of these poultices, and their methods of prepara- 
tion, should be found in the medicine closet of every 
home, where, in cases of emergency, they may be ready 
for hurried reference, when their soothing effects are most 
needed. 



How to Make A II Kinds of Poultices. 101 




MAKING A PORK AND ONION POULTICE. 



How to Make All Kinds of Poultices. 



A PORK AND ONION POULTICE, GOOD FOR 
WOUNDS MADE BY RUSTY TOOLS OR NAILS, 

BRUISES, AND LACERATED WOUNDS. 
Take raw salt pork and about the same bulk in boiled 

onions, and chop together thoroughly fine in a wooden 

bowl and apply warm and bind on about half an inch thick 

on the injured or wounded parts. 

BREAD AND MILK POULTICE. 
Break up wheat bread into small pieces and pour on 
boiling milk and stir well until the mass is brought to the 
thickness of mush. Spread upon a cloth and apply to the 
surface intended to be poulticed. ^ 



102 How to Make Poultices. 




FLAXSEED-MEAL POULTICE. 
Place the ground flaxseed in a basin and pour on boiling 
water, mixing it thoroughly, so there will be no lumps. 
Spread it a quarter of an inch thick upon folded cloth and 
lay over it a piece of cheese-cloth. Apply as needed. 

SLIPPERY-ELM POULTICE. 
Moisten the powdered slippery-elm bark with hot water, 
spread and apply as directed for flaxseed-meal poultice. 

YEAST POULTICE. 
Take about one pound of oatmeal and add to it one-half 
pint of yeast and heat the mixture until it swells. Apply to 
cloth as in other poultices. 

CHARCOAL POULTICE. 
Powder fresh charcoal and mix it with bread. Pour on 
warm water and stir it thoroughly and apply in such quanti- 
ties as may be deemed necessary. 

ONION, TURNIP, OR CARROT POULTICES. 
Boil the onions, turnips, or carrots, and stir in sufficient 
cornmeal to make a thick paste. Apply warm to the 
surface. 

MUSTARD POULTICE. 
Mix ground mustard with warm water and apply next to 
the skin, or for milder effects place a thin cheese-cloth 
between the skin and the poultice. 

BRAN POULTICE. 
Place the quantity of bran required, according to the 
size of the poultice, upon the top of boiling water, and when 
the h^athas penetrated the bran, stir it gently in. Pour off 
the surplus water, and apply the poultice as hot as it can 
be borne. 

BREAD POULTICE. 
Boil about one-half pint of water in a small, clean, lined 
saucepan, into this put two ounces of stale bread, and let \t 
soak for a few minutes, and apply. 



How to Make Bandages for Wounds and Sores. 103 




How to Make All Kinds of Bandages 

FOR WOUNDS AND SORES. 

I. Every wound or bruise should be well bandaged with 
soft, linen rags, and protected from the air. 
t 2. Care should be used not to draw the bandages too 
tightly, as it will cause much suffering. 
_ 3. If a limb is bleed- 
ing badly, wrap a hand- 
kerchief around it above 
the wound. Tie a small 
stick into it, and twist it 
until the blood stops flow- 
ing. — Serious bleeding 
always results from the 
cutting of an artery, and 
demands immediate at- 
tention. 

4. An artery can always 
be known by its beating, 
or by the blood escaping 
in jets, and if severed in 
any other parts of the 
body except the Jimbs, 
the flow of blood must be 
stopped by placing the hand upon the wound and holding 
the parts together until a physician can be summoned. 

5. Sores and ulcers should be cleansed and dried every 
day, and new and clean bandages applied. No wound or 
sore will heal rapidly unless kept perfectly clean. 




104 



A Cure for Boils, Etc. 



A CURE FOR BOILS. 

1. Take a good tonic of some kind, to stimulate the 
system and cleanse the blood. Some preparation of sarsa- 
parilla is a very good remedy. 

2. A good tonic will prevent other boils from coming. 

3. Eat nourishing food, such as eggs, beefsteak, mutton, 
poultry, etc. 

4. Apply bread and milk or flaxseed poultices, until 
ready to open, or use the skin of a boiled egg wet. 

6. After opening the boil thoroughly, and squeezing out 
all the pus, apply a warm poultice for a day, and then wash 
with castile soap or boracic acid, and dress it with soft 
linen until well. 




A SPEAINED HAND. 



HOW TO CURE BRUISES AND SPRAINS. 

For bruises and sprains there is nothing better than hot 
water, applied as warm as can be endured without too 
much pain. Apply the waiter with several thicknesses of 
ffennel, and change it as soon as it gets cool. Applying 
cold water to bruises and sprains is an injury instead of a 
benefit. It should never be done. After a day or two any 
kind of liniment may be applied. Gentle rubbing after a 
few days will aid materially. 

« ONLY A SPRAIN." 

The reason why a sprain is often not more speedily 
cured is that it is considered "only a sprain," and not 
sufficient attention is paid to the injury at the time. A 
sprain may become a very serious matter if not properly 
treated, but with proper, immediate and thorough treait- 
mcnt a cure will soon be effected. 



Felon. 



105 



The first thing to be done is to immerse the part in hot 
water. The water should be as hot as can be borne, and 
should be kept up to a constant temperature by frequent 
additions. It will be necessary to continue this treatment 
for a long time, it may be for hours, or until every trace of 
soreness is practically dispelled. 

The part is then to be tightly strapped in a bandage in a 
position just short of absolute fixity. The best article to 
use in such a case is what is called in medical parlance a 
"Martin's Dandage." This is a long, narrow strip of sheet 
rubber, of sufficient strength to withstand considerable 
strain and fitted at one end with tapes for tying. It is 
easily seen that by the use of this bandage the desired 
pressure can be obtained without complete immovability. 

Another Remedy for Sprains.— Wormwood boiled in 
vinegar and applied hot as can be borne on a sprain or 
bruise is an invaluable remedy. The affected member 
should afterward be rolled in flannel to retain the heat. 

LEMON FOR FELON. 

When it is suspected that a felon is coming on the 
finger, procure a lemon and cut off part of one end. Then 
with a pair of pointed scissors or small blade of knife 
cut out the hard core in center of the lemon, removing any 
seed that may be in the way, and push the finger into a 
lemon and let it remain there until all symptoms dis- 
appear, which will not be longer perhaps than a day and 
a night. However, if one lemon does not suffice, use an- 
other. 

Experience With a Punctured Wound. — Last summer 
I had a painful experience, which threatened serious re- 
sults, from a punctured wound received on the bottom of 
my foot by stepping on one of those little brass staples 
which are used in a piece of cardboard to fasten the prices 
on goods. It had fallen on the floor at night, while putting 
away some of the day's purchases, and was unobserved 
until I stepped on it. The points pierced about half an 
inch into the ball of the foot. An abscess threatened to 
form at the bottom of the wound. After trying various 
remedies to no avail, I thought of lemons, and bound the 
pulp over the inflamed wound. The remedy proved ef- 
fectual and the dreaded abscess was prevented from form- 
ing. 



106 



Felon. 



Braises. — Mothers will do well to remember this in case 

of stone bruises which little barefoot boys sometimes suflfer 
so much with. Begin in time with the lemon and prevent 
these painful afiflictions. 




HOW TO CURE FELONS, 



Stmptoms. — Throbbing pain, which is often fert up the 
arm ; tender to the touch ; hand of a dusky red color. 

Home Treatment. — Apply poultices wet with laudanum, 
or wash in a solution of carbolic acid to soften the parts; 
wipe dry and apply a coat of collodion and give the patient 
a good dose of physic. 

General Treatment.— If the above treatgaent is not sulB- 
cient, go to a physician and have it lanced so as to lay open 
the flesh to the bone. 

CARBUNCLES. 

Carbuncles are nothing more or less than large boils accom- 
panied with more or less pain and constitutional disturbances. 

Home Treatment.— First look after the general health of 
the patient and administer an easily digested diet. Give a 
few stimulants or tonics. Apply jarge flaxseed poultices to 
the carbuncle. If the carbuncle is very large and painful, 
the family physician should be consulted. 

HOW TO REMOVE WARTS. 
To destroy warts apply a mixture of chromic acid and water, 
equal parts, or an application of carbolic or nitric acid will have 
the same effect, or rub the warts night and morning with 
sal amoniac moistened in water. This will remove them in a 
short time- 



Home Remedies and How to Use Them. 107 




HOME REMEDIES AND HOW TO USE THEM. 



▲ Green Herb is Worth More than a Latin Phrase. 

People have too long been educated to look upon a med- 
ical monopoly as the safest means of ensuring their health; 
they swallow nauseous drugs, but turn with indifference 
from vegetables as a medicine, while they eat them with 
complacency at their dinner; that which is thought excel- 
lent to sustain them in health loses its power when they 
are prostrated by disease. 

Herbs and vegetable substances have this superiority 
over mineral medicines, in that they are a food as well as 
a medicine. Those who use herbs as a medicine will find 
the sick able to subsist upon these medicines, when the 
lightest of food is rejected, thus giving nature time to 
rally her forces. It is too often the case that a patient 
reads a pompous recommendation of a medicine of which 
he has no knowledge, and swallows it with avidity, in the 
hope of obtaining relief, when, if he knew its component 
parts, he would fiy from it as from the fangs of a rattle- 
snake. 

The intelligent reader is here taught how to remove dis- 
eases in the quickest and safest manner, and if he closely 
follows the suggestions made in the following pages he 
will be as well fitted to cope with diseases as many who 
have passed through the curriculum of the schools. 

Dr. Robinson says, that "amidst all the different 
branches of knowledge which have engaged the attention 
of mankind there can be none of equal importance (re- 
ligion only excepted) to the treatment or cure of the 
disease to which the human family is subject; for," 
says he, "the soul in a diseased body is like the martyr 
in his dungeon; it may retain its value, but it has lost its 
usefulness." 



108 Home Remedies and How to Use Them, 




The Wonderful Curative Properties of Common Salt 

1. Common salt possesses great curative properties, ap^L 
it is an excellent household remedy, and always at hand. 

2. Heated dry and applied to outer surface, over the seat 
inflammation or congestion, it will give almost instant relle?. 

3. Applications of hot solutions of salt and water or vinegar 
■will act like magic upon toothache, neuralgic headache, and 
other similar diseases. 

4. For catarrh and sore throat a spray of warm water and 
salt, applied often, will care almost every case, if taken in 
time. For hay fever, and those other slight forms of nasal dis« 
eases which produce constant sneezing, there is no remedy 
more quickly effective, and often curative, than the vapor of 
heated salt and alcohol. (Heat it very hot, and breathe the 
vapor for 10 minutes at a time, four or five times a day.) 

6. For sensitive and bleeding gums, apply salt and cold 
water once or twice a day. A sure cure. 

6. Slight bleeding can be easily checked by the use of salt 
ai.d water. 

7. Tender feet may be cured in a veiy short time by daily 
brisk rubbing with cold water and salt. 

8. A pinch of salt in hot water, taken either just before or 
just after eating, greatly aids digestion, and has cured many 
cases of dyspepsia. 

9. A cup of hot water and salt will sometimes quiet the se- 
Terest vomiting when nothing else will. 

10. Caution. Salt eaten with the food In too great quanti- 
ties is very injurious. Too much salt dries up the blood, 
and gives the skin a yellow pallor. 



Home Remedies and How to Use Them, 109 



11. Neuralgia of the feet and limbs can be cured by bath- 
ing night and morning with salt water as hot as can be 
borne; when taken out, rub the feet with a coarse towel. 

12. Severe pains in the bowels and stomach are often 
speedily relieved by the application of a bag of hot salt. 

13. A weak solution of salt and water is recommended 
by good physicians as a remedy for imperfect digestion, 
and for a cold in the head it is a complete cure snuffed up 
from the hollow of the hand. We have known severe 
chronic cases of catarrh entirely cured by persistent use of 
this simple remedy every night and morning for several 
months, when the best efforts of the best physicians failed 
to do any good. It should be used milk warm. 

14. A good handful of rock salt added to the bath is the 
next best thing after an "ocean dip," and a gargle of a 
■weak solution is a good and ever-ready remedy for a sore 
throat. 

15. One of the most effective remedies known for the 
sick headache is to place a pinch of salt on the tongue and 
allow it to dissolve slowly. In about ten minutes it may 
be followed by a drink of water. 

16. There is nothing better for the relief of tired or 
weak eyes than to bathe them with a strong solution of 
salt and water, applied as hot as it can be borne. 

17. Salt is most excellent for cleansing the teeth. It 
hardens the gums and sweetens the breath. 

THE USEFUL ONION. 
The medicinal qualities of the onion are not to be de- 
spised. An onion will cure the earache quicker than any 
other remedy. Take two or three good-sized onions. 
Peel them and cut in thin slices. Lay the slices on a cloth 
and heat until hot. Bind this to the head, letting it ex- 
tend beyond the ear at least one inch all the way round. 
An onion poultice is most useful in cases of internal in- 
flammation, and onions are an excellent remedy for 
diphtheria and pneumonia. When the digestive system is 
apt to become overloaded with rich, greasy or sweet foods, 
plenty of onions should be eaten as a counterbalance. 
They are good for the stomach, the complexion, and the 
nerves when eaten either boil d or raw, but of course the 
unpleasant odor left on the breath after indulgence in them 
is a barrier to their use to many people who would other- 
wise be able to take advantage of the good there is in 
them. To overcome all this, and give every one a chance, 
an old remedy is suggested — parsley. To entirely destroy 
the bad odor of onions eat a small sprig of this pretty 



110 Home Remedies and IIow to Use Them. 



green herb either with your meals or immediately after 
them. There will be nothing in the breath or about the 
person at all suggestive of the odoriferous bulb five min- 
utes after the parsley is eaten. 

WOOD SAGE. 
It is an excellent bitter, and removes obstructions from 
the kidneys and liver; as a diuretic, it acts freely upon the 
bladder; it likewise cleanses old sores; if taken in a green 
state and mixed with linseed, or oatmeal, it makes a good 
poultice, and may be applied to old sores, or inflammations 
with good effect. 

TANSY. 

A tea of this herb will relieve gravel, strangury, weak- 
ness and pain in the back and kidneys; it is also good for 
female weakness. The leaves when bruised are used for 
soothing contusions, etc. 

PARSLEY. 

The seed, herb and root are all possessed of strong 
diuretic properties, and have an aromatic taste. This plant 
is powerfully diuretic, and gently aperient; it is useful in 
dropsical cases, or in affections of the kidneys. 

SLIPPERY ELM. 

The inner bark of this tree is a valuable demulcent, pos- 
sessing very soothing qualities, and is particularly applica- 
ble, both as a medicine and injection, in cases of dysentery 
and other diseases of the bowels. A teaspoonful of the 
powder mixed in half a pint of hot water, and sweetened, 
forms an excellent drink in irritation of the mucous 
membrane of the stomach and bowels. It may be used as 
a poultice in all cases of local inflammation with great 
benefit. 

RED CLOVER. 

The flowers of the common clover, such as is cut for 
hay, are a valuable article; a salve made of them is 
good for cancer, old sores and sore lips; it is soft and ad- 
hesive, and the flowers contain so great a quantity of 
honey that it enhances the medicinal properties of the 
salve. To make this salve take a large brass or tin kettle, 
or boiler, fill it with clover heads or flowers, coyer them 
with water, let them boil briskly for an hour, then strain 
and press the flowers well, and then re-fill the same vessel 
with flowers, putting them in the same liquor; strain again, 
and simmer down, until it is of the consistency of thick tar. 
With this salve we once cured a cancer of very long stand- 
ing, keeping up at the same time, by internal medicines, a 



Home Remedies attd How to Use Them. Ill 



lively action in the system; for old sores of every descrip- 
tion this salve is equally good. In making it, great care 
should be taken not to burn it, or Hs virtue will be much 
impaired. 

Clover tea purifies the blood, clears the complexion and 
removes pimples; dried clover may be used for tea. 
GUM ARABIC. 

This gum will not mix with spirits, but it readily dis- 
solves in twice its quantity of water; when in this fluid 
state it becomes an excellent mucilaginous medicine, useful 
for coughs, or hoarseness; or also acts as a diuretic. 
HOEEHOUND. 

As a tonic, it possesses great power; it likewise stimu- 
lates by acting as an expectorant, having a tendency to 
loosen the phlegm. Take a strong decoction of this valua- 
ble herb on going to bed, the first time you have the mis- 
fortune to take cold, and add to each dose half a teaspoon- 
ful of cayenne pepper, with a tablespoQnful of good vine- 
gar. A syrup made of horehound and ginger-root is 
excellent for children when attacked with the whooping 
cough, or for sudden colds; or it may be pulverized and 
mixed with half its quantity of ginger, a teaspoonful of 
cayenne, and one of cloves; this, when well sweetened and 
taken hot on going to bed, will be found to be one of the 
best medicines that can be obtained. 

AMERICAN GOLDEN ROD. 

Sweet-scented golden rod. This herb may be used for 
the headache, as also to produce perspiration; it possesses 
stimulating and nervine properties, and may be given in 
the form of tea, in lieu of any of the mints; its taste is 
sweet and spicy, and on the whole agreeable. 

BORAX. 

1. Borax is, in the first place, one of the most power- 
ful, if not indeed the most powerful, antiseptic known, 

2. It is priceless for its convenience on the toilet table ; 
used to wash the head, as much as one can hold in the 
hollow of the hand to about a quart of water — it destroys 
dandruff. 

3. It allays the heat of sunburn, bleaches out tan and 
redness, helps freckles and moth to a great degree, in 
a weak solution relieves inflammation of the eyes, as after 
crying and in rheumatic affections. 

4. It is an invaluable ingredient in almost every denti- 
frice, and cure for canker in the mouth, and for any 

gumboil. 



112 Home Remedies and How tJ Use Them. 



5. It cleans the brush and comb, and is a whitener and 
purifier everywhere, used with discretion, as too much of 
it is too drying. 

6. It is good in the general bath, after one has been 
exposed to contagion. 

7. It is very efficacious as a gargle in mild sore throats. 

8. Care, however, must be taken to swallow none of it, 
as, although a few accidental drops swallowed might do 
no irreparable harm, large or frequent quantities are 
capable of" ruining the kidneys. 

9. If the spot of a mosquito bite is wet and borax 
plastered upon it, all sting and itching cease very shortly. 

TURPENTINE. 

Turpentine has almost as many uses as borax. It is 
good for rheumatism, and mixed with camphorated oil 
and rubbed on the chest, is one of the best remedies for 
bronchial colds. 

FACTS ABOUT EGGS. 

To prevent bed sores, apply with a feather the white of 
an egg beaten with two teaspoonfuls spirits of wine. 

Hoarseness and tickling in the throat are relieved by a 
gargle of the white of an egg beaten to a froth with a 
tumblerful of warm sweetened water. 

Beat an egg fifteen minutes with a pint of milk and a 
pint of water, sweeten with granulated sugar, bring to 
boiling point and when cold use as a drink. It is excellent 
for a cold. 

Put coffee into the pot, add the white of an egg and stir 
well before pouring on any water. Leave the yolk in 
the shell to be used in a similar manner another time. 
This makes a strengthening morning drink. 

An old-time but very effective remedy for an obstinate 
cough is to place three unbroken eggs in very strong 
cider vinegar (increase the strength by boiling if neces- 
sary). In three or four days the acid will eat the shells, 
then beat the mixture well, and thicken with honey. Take 
two tablespoonfuls before each meal. 

An army nurse giv^s this remedy for chronic diarrhea, 
which she said was used successsfully by the soldiers: 
Drop eggs in water, crush a very small place in the shell 
to prevent bursting, then wrap in wet paper and roast in 
the ashes to a fine powder. It will take several hours. 
Sift, and take a teaspoonful of the powder three times a 
day. 



Home Remedies and How to Use Them. 113 



GLYCERIN. 

There is hardly a family medicine-chest that does not 
contain its bottle of glycerin, and yet the writer has ob- 
served that in most cases this reliable remedy is depended 
on for nothing more than the relief of "chapped" hands 
and faces. 

There are a great variety of ways in which glycerin can 
be employed to the very best advantage. For "chaps" 
and reddened and roughened skin, the best results are 
obtained by diluting the glycerin with an equal part of 
rosewater. 

It is an excellent plan to put a little glycerin in the 
iodin that is applied to the chest in case of a severe cold. 

In cases of severe burns, glycerin applied immediately 
gives great relief. 

A violent attack of coughing may be instantly relieved 
by a tablespoonful of glycerin in hot milk. 

Mixed with sulphuric acid, glycerin is an excellent 
remedy for throat troubles of all kinds. The mixture is 
used as a gargle, and should be freshly made at each 
using. 

HOW TO GATHER AND PREPARE MEDICINAL 
PLANTS AND BARKS. 

1. Barks should be gathered as soon as they will peel 
easily in the spring. 

2. Leaves and herbs should be collected just before they 
begin to fade in autumn. 

3. Flowers, when they first begin to blossom. 

4. Seeds, just before they are ripe. 

5. Roots may be dug at any time, thoroughly washed, 
cleaned and dried. 

THE AMERICAN POPLAR. 

This is a good tonic, and is a good remedy for chronic 
rheumatism, dyspepsia and general debility. Use only 
the inner part, dried and powdered. 

Dose. A heaping teaspoonful three or four times a day. 



114 Home Retnedies, and How to Use Them. 



BLACKBERRY. 

1. The root is recommended for diarrhoea, dysentery and sum* 
mer complaint in cliildren. 

2. Boil the small roots in a quart of water and reduce this 
quantity by boiling it down one half. 

3. One or two tablespoonfuls may be given three or four 
times a day. 

BURDOCK. 

1. In Scrofulous or in obstinate skin diseases it is considered as 
one of the best home remedies. 

2. Take a handful of the freshly bruised root to two quarts 
of water and boil down one half. 

Dose. Drinls about one pint per day. 

GARLIC. 

1. Garlic is recommended for whoop- 
mg-cough, coughs, colds, asthma and 
tcorms. 

2. It may be used by external appli- 
cation, or made into a syrup by adding 
white sugar, and talcen in such quan- 
tities as may be deemed necessary. 

BLACK ELDER. 

1. The flowers, the berries and the bark all possess medicinal 
properties. 

2. An ointment made by stirring the fresh flowers into clean 
melted lard, and subsequently straining it, is an excellent 
remedy for burns, scalds, wounds and old obstinate sores. 

3. The berries are laxative and are good In rheumatism, gottt^ 
ikin diseases and habitual constipation. 

4. The berries can be preserved by canning the same As any 
other fruit, or they may be dried. 

CAMPHOR. 

Applied externally in rheumatism, enlarged Joints, bruises 
and sprains, spirits of camphor is considered one of the best 
of domestic remedies. One-half or one-fourth of a teaspoon- 
ful taken internally will cure colic, diarrhoea, and, in its first 
stages, it is considered an excellent remedy for a cold. 




Home Remedies atid How to Use Them. 



115 



CAYENNE PEPPER. 

As a condiment, it prevents flatulence from vegetable 
food and increases the digestive power of weak stomachs. 
As a medicine it is a powerful and useful stimulant in 
paralysis, fevers, etc. It is of great efficiency in chronic 
ophthalmia. In malignant sore throat it is a useful 
gargle. Doses may be given from three to eight grains. 

CATNIP. 

Catnip is an excellent domestic remedy, and will pro- 
duce active perspiration. Good for colds, headache and 
similar diseases. 

Dose. Make a strong tea and drink before retiring. 

CINNAMON. 

1. Cinnamon will relieve vomiting, colic and diarrhea. 

2. A drop of oil of cinnamon will often relieve very 
serious toothache. Apply to tooth with a little cotton. 




DANDELION EOOT AND PLANT. 



DANDELION. 

1. The dandelion is recommended for biliousness, 
chronic inflammation of the liver, constipation and coughs. 

2. The root should be collected in July, August or Sep- 
tember. 

Doss. A strong infusion may be drank freely two or 
three times a day, or the fluid extract can be procured at 
any drug store. 
8 



1 ! ri Home Remedies, and H<nu to Use Them. 



ALUM. 

L Altjm should always be kept in the house. It Is one of 
the best remedies known to stop bleeding. 

2. A heaping teaspoonful of powdered alum, placed In a 
common teacup of water, will stop the flow of blood in any 
ordinary wound where no large artery has been severed. 

3. SnulHng a solution will stop bleeding of the nose. 

4. A teaspoonful of powdered alum and molasses will cure 
the croup in children. It will also cure painter's colic. 

5. A mild solution of alum will relieve inflamed eyes. 

6. A wash made with a teaspoonful of alum and a quart of 
water, will prevent offensive sweating, and will often cure 
pimples on the face of young persons. 

7. Burnt alum will remove proud flesh in wounds and sores. 




BONESET OR THOROUGHWORT. 

This is a good remedy for malarial diseases, chills and fevers, 
and is also a tonic. 

Dose. Make the leaves and flowers into a strong tea, and 
take about a wineglassf ul at a time. 



Home Remedies, and Hoiv to Use Them, 117 




DOGWOOD BLOSSOMS. 



DOGWOOD. 

1. Dogwood Is a familiar tree, the bark of which Is good in 
fvoer and ague. It is also used as a appetizer. 

2. Make a strong tea by boiling a liandf ul of the bark in a 
quart of water. 

DosB. Take a wineglassful three times a day 

GINGER. 

1. The medical virtues of ginger tea in relieving colic, diar- 
rhoea and indigestion, cannot be questioned. 

2. A cup of strong ginger tea, taken on going to bed, will 
often cure a cold. 

8. Ginger tea may be taken copiously for any bowel trouble. 

HOPS. 

1. Hops have long been known to possess soothing and sleep* 
producing proprieties. A cup of strong hop tea will produce 
pleasant sleep. 

2. A hop poultice will relieve the pain of a brum^ a gprain or 
other ivjuriM. 



118 Home Remedies, and How to Use Them. 

FLAXSEED. 

This is an excellent remedy for 
coughs, colds, disoideis of the bow- 
els, kidneys and bladder, etc. 

Preparation. To make the best 
kind of flaxseed tea, place the seeds 
in a small linen bag and suspend the 
bag in a dish of water, four table- 
spoonfuls for each quart of water. 
After allowing the seeds to soak for 
several hours, remove the same and flax. 
the tea will be ready for use. Add a little lemon juice for 
flavor. 

DosB. Give in quantities as may be necessary. 

HORSERADISH. 

1. It is an excellent remedy for hoarseness, drop^, rJiewmatim 
and palm/. 

2. Make a syrup by boiling the root, and add sufficient 8Uga» 
to make it palatable. 

Dose. Two tea-spoonfuls two or three times a daj 

JUNIPER. 

The berries of the Juniper ti'ee have always been considered 
as excellent home remedies in dropsy, skin diseases and scrofula, 
they maybe eaten fresh or dry. 

Dose. Two tea-spoonfuls of berries two or three times a 
day. It is better to bruise them thoroughly with a hammerj 
breaking all the seeds before taking. 

LEMON-JUICE. 

1. Hot lemonade taken on retiring, will break up a cold in 
Its first stages. 

2. Some veiy serious cases of dropsy can be cured by eating 
lemons. The patient should commence by eating one lemon a 
day, and increase it until ten or fifteen are eaten each day. 

3. Very strong lemonade, with but little sugar, will relieve 
Influenza, cold in the head and inflammatory rheumatism it 
taken often. 

4. It will remove ink-stains from white cloth, also iron rust, 
and freckles from the skin. 




Home RemeJzes, and How to Use Them. 119 




OLIVE OIL. 

1. A wineglassful every few minutes, will relieva cramp 
eolic. 

2. A teaspoonful rubbed along the spine of a very young 
Infant will loosen tlie bowels better tlian giving Internal 
remedies. 

3. Applications externally will soothe and relieve most all 
kinds of skin diseases. 

KEROSENE OIL. 

1. Kerosene Oil will relieve rheumatic pains, seiatica and 
neuralgia. 

2. Apply It with thorough and repeated rubbing of the 
affected parts. 

3. It is also recommended for burns, scalds, sprains, bruis- 
es and sores. Apply in mild quantities. 



120 Home Remedies, and How to Use Them, 



LIME. 

1. Allowing children to breathe the vapor Irom slaking lime, 
is good for croup and diphtheria. 

2. Talte about one-half pound of unslaked lime, and pour 
upon it a quart of hot water. Let it stand for a few hours, 
and draw off the clear liquid. This makes an excellent gargle 
In croup and diphtheria. It is also an excellent remedy for 
Itching eruptions on the skin, such as hives, if applied exter- 
nally. Taken inwardly, it will relieve immediately, heartburn 
and many forms of dyspepsia. It will also relieve bowel com- 
plaints of children, when the child has wind in the stomacb 
and is restless and fretful. 

LOBELIA. 

1. Lobelia, is a common plant and is given as a remedy for 
asthma, lockjaw and coughs. 

2. It is violent in its action and a fatal poison in overdoses. 
Care should be taken in reference to the quantity used. It is 
better and safer to allow the physician to prescribe it. 

MAGJVESIA. 

Magnesia will relieve sour stomach, acidity of the stomachy 
heartburn, colic, dyspepsia and similar diseases. It is a mild 
laxative, suitable to children. 

Dose. Take a tea-spoonful as many times as may be 
required. 

MUSTARD. 

1. Mustard is an excellent household remedy. In cases of 
poisoning, when taken In large quantities, it will produce 
vomiting. 

2. A tablespoonful of white mustard seed mingled with 
syrup, and taken once a day, will act gently on the bowels and 
is a beneficial remedy in dyspepsia and constipation. 

RHUBARB. 

Rhubarb will cure wind on the stomach, measles, and will 
act mildly upon the bowels. The aromatic syrup may be pio 
cured at the drug stores. 

Dose. A tablespoonful for an adult 



Home Remedies, and How to Use Them. 121 

PENNYROYAL. 

1. Penntrotal •will promote per. 
spi ration and is good for coughs and 
colds. 

2. Make a strong tea and take at 
going to bed. 

3. A warm foot-bath may accom* 
pany the medicine with good ef» 
fects. 

MANDRAKE or MA Y-APPLE, 

This is a stimulant, a tonic and a 
laxative. It is excellent for liver 
complaint, especially when It is In 
a torpid and inactive condition. 

Dose. Dry and powder the root, 
and take about one teaspoonful. 
This dose may be repeated two or 
PBNNYBOYAti thrco tlmes a day. Some persons 

are more or less affected by it. The dose should be according 
to effects. 

OAK-BARK. 

1. Oak-Bark may be given with advantage In /cwr and aflrwe, 
iiarrhmi and bleeding from the lungs. It is also good as an ex- 
ternal application. 

2. The acorns, when roasted, are believed to be a remedy for 
icrofula and Ooher skin diseases. A strong tea of the bark has 
also been recommended as a wash for old sores and foul ulcers. 

3. A poultice made of powdered bark will relieve pain, and 
is also considered a good remedy for sores and ulcers. 

Dose. Make a tea of the bark and take in such quantities 
as may be deemed necessary. No serious effects of an overdose. 

PEACH-TREE BARK. 

The bark of the peach-tree Is sedative, and will control nau« 
sea and vomiting. It also possesses mild tonic properties. 

Dose. Make a strong tea of the bark and drink a wlne> 
glassful three times a day. 




122 Home Remedies, and How to Use Them. 



PEPPERMINT. 

Externally applied it is an efficient remedy in neuralgia. 
It is good for sickness of the stomach, colic and cholera of 
children. 

Dose. Essence of peppermint may be given in doses of 
from ten to twenty-five drops in water, or on a lump of 
sugar. 

GOOSE GREASE. 

Goose oil applied externally and internally is an excel- 
lent remedy for sore throat, hoarseness, coughs, etc. 

SNAKEROOT. 

1. The Virginia Snakeroot, 
when made into a strong tea, 
is useful as a gargle in sore 
throat, and will bring out the 
eruptions in scarlet fever 
and measles. 

2. When the tea is taken 
internally, it will produce 
perspiration and will often 
cure a cold and rheumatism 
in the first stages. 



SENNA LEAVES. 

SENNA. 

Senna is the leaves of a small tree which grows in 
northern Africa. It is a sure and safe purgative of moderate 
power. It will cure costiveness and other similar troubles. 

SASSAFRAS. 

The bark made into a tea makes a pleasant drink, and 
will relieve dysentery and inflammation of the bladder. 
It will also relieve inflammation of the eyes when applied 
externally. 

SULPHUR. 

Old cases of rheumatism are often improved by sulphur 
baths and sulphur tea. It will also cure the itch and loosen 
the bowels. 

Dose. Powder sulphur and mix with molasses. A tea- 
spoonful three times a day. 




Home Remedies, and How to Use Them. 12S 



SWEET FLAG. 
Sweet Flag Is recommended for fain in (ho 
ttomach or bowels. It can be taken in the tovm 
of a tea, sweetened with a little sugar, or the 
root may be eaten without any preparation. 

COMMON BAKING SODA, 
L This is good for sour stomach, heartbum» 
water-brash, and will often relieve distiesa 
in the stomach, sudden dianhoee, etc. An 
even teaspoonful should be stirred into a 
wineglassful of water and taken in one 
dose ; children according to age. 

2. If children are wakeful, restless and 
cross, throwing up curdled milk from the 
stomach, nothing is better than a little soda 
and cold water. Soda will often 
relieve rheumatism, and soda-baths 
are very efficacious in curing various 
skin diseases. 

3. Caution. The daily use of so- 
da should not be caiTied too far, as 
it is liable to weaken the stomach, ' ^vtbkt vim. 
and thin the blood too much. 

WILD CHERRY. 

1. This is good for general weakness, poor digestion, lack of 
appetite, nervousness and coughs. It is also considered an 
excellent remedy for the first stages of consumption or palpita- 
tion of the heart. 

2. The parts used in medicine, are the berries and inner bark 
of the roots and branches. 

Dose. A heaping teaspoonful of the dried and powdered 
bark, soaked twenty -four hours in one quart of cold water. 
Take a wineglassful four or five times a day. 

WILLOW. 

1. The inner bark is a good remedy in fever and ague and 
similar diseased. 

2. Make a strong tea of the inner bark, and take in quaatt* 
ties to suit the patient. 




124 Home Remedies, and How to Use Them. 




SAGE. 

This Is an excellent remedy for wind, colds, or night sweats. 
Doss. Make the same into a strong tea and drink a teacup* 
ful several times a day, or as emergency may demand. 

SALTPETRE {NITRATE OF POTASH). 

An excellent domestic remedy for inflammatory rheumatism, 
flore throat, asthma, dysentery, gravel, and skin diseases. 

Dose. Of a tablespoonful of powdered saltpetre stirred in 
a pint of cold water, take 2 or 3 tablespoonf uls every 2 hours. 
For gravel boil the same quantity in new milk and give 3 or 4 
tablespoonf uls of the liquid to a dose. For sore throat it is 
used as a gargle. For asthma soak paper in a strong liquid 
of saltpetre water, then dry. Burn the paper and inhale the 
smoke and it will give speedy relief. For dysentery take a 
teaspoonful of powdered saltpetre and stir into a tumbler of 
water. Take a teaspoonful of this every hour. 

RED PEPPER. 
A teaspoonful of red pepper mixed with molasses and takei 
In one dose, Is considered one of the best remedies for deliriua 
tremens and sea-sickness. 



Home Remedies and Hotne Treatment. 125 

HOME REMEDIES AND HOME TREATMENT FOR 
ALL DISEASES. 

In the following pages we give the symptoms, causes 
and treatments of diseases from which mankind suffers. 

We are free to say that in all cases we prefer the Home 
Treatment to any other, as under proper care it is the 
most simple, reliable, efificacious, and at the same time 
the most economical method, and never leaves any evil 
after effects. 

For the benefit of those who prefer Homeopathic or the 
Regular Treatment, including drugs, we have in most 
cases given these treatments alfo. 



COLIC IN AD UL TS. 

Symptoms. — Colic ,'is a griping pain in the bowels, chiefly 
about the navel, relieved by pressure, and often accompanied 
with a painful distension of the whole of the lower region of 
the bowels, with vomiting, costiveness, and spasmodic contrac- 
tion of the muscles of the abdomen. 

Causes.— The complaint is produced by various causes, such 
as indigestible fruits, long continued costiveness, cold, or it 
may be due, as in painter's colic, to poisoning by lead. 

Home Treatment.— Hot fomentations applied to the abdo- 
men to relieve the pain, and a strong physic. One of .the best 
is blue mass in 5 or 10 grains. Tepid water injection in the 
bowels, a few drops of peppermint in hot water, or strong cat- 
nip tea, will often give speedy relief. Keep the feet dry and 
avoid food, that disagrees with the patient. 

Homeopathic Treatment. — Colocynth when cramps in 
region of the navel with diarrhoea. Nux vomica when from 
constipation and indigestible food. Chamomilla when in 
children. Ipecac, if vomiting is an accompanying symptom. 

Regular Treatment. — If caused by some indigestible 
article of food, a dose of castor oil had better be given, say a 
tablespoonful for an adult, to which from ten to fifteen drops 
of laudanum may be added. If the pain is very severe a tur- 
pentine stupe may be applied over the abdomen. The follow- 
ing mixture will be found very useful in such cases: Solution 



126 Ho7}ie Remedies and Home Treatment. 

of the muriate of morphia, 2 drachms; spirit of chloroform, 
Yz ounce; water to make 2 ounces. A teaspoonful to be 
given every two hours until the pain is relieved. 

CRAMPS Ai\D CRAMP COLIC. 

Home Treatment. — For cramp colic give a wineglass- 
ful of olive oil. For cramps, rubbing the parts thoroughly 
with the hands or a piece of flannel will generally produce 
relief. The application of turpentine or spirits of harts- 
horn, rubbed on with the hand, is highly recommended. 

COLIC IN CHILDREN. 

A good remedy is nothing more nor less than glycerin, 
as much as the child will take. It is best to begin with 
a teaspoonful, but there is no fear of giving too much. 
The first effect is the quieting of the cry of pain; the 
second, the belching of the gas; later the gas passes away 
downward, and finally, after an easy movement of the 
bowels, the child falls into a sweet, restful sleep. Try it, 
its efificacy will surprise you, as will also the readiness with 
which the little one will suck it from the spoon. 

CRAMPS IN THE LEGS. 

Many persons of either sex are troubled with cramp in 
one or both of the legs. It usually comes on during night 
and while it lasts th"e pain is acute. Most people jump 
out of bed — the cramp nearly always comes on just after 
going to bed or while undressing — and either rub their 
legs or get some one to do it for them. There is some- 
thing easier than to overcome the spasm, and the method 
suggested is as follows: Provide a good strong cord — 
a garter will do if nothing else is handy. When the cramp 
comes on, take the cord, wind it around the leg over the 
place in which the pain is felt and take one end in each 
hand, and give it a sharp pull, one that will hurt a little. 
The cramp will cease instantly, and the sufferer can go 
to bed assured that it will not come again that night. 

HOW TO CURE NIGHTMARE. 

Cause. — Nightmares are probably the result of indiges- 
tion, late suppers, too much excitement or hard thinking, 
cold feet, costiveness, flatulence, etc. 

Home Treattmen.— Avoid the causes and eat light sup- 
pers. Sleep with another person. A little cayenne pepper 
or baking soda, taken just before retiring, will be found 
efficacious. 



Sleej)lessness. 127 



HEALTHY POSITION FOR THE HEAD AND BACK, 

f5on)e IRerr)edies for Sleeplessijess. 

Many suffer from nervousness and a want of sleep. Many 
remedies have been given, but few liave proven successful. 
The f ollovsring are some of the best liousehold remedies known. 

1. A bath, taken just before retiring, is highly recommend, 
ed. If this is not satisfactory wash tlie face, neck and bands 
in cold water, and then retire and keep the mind quiet. 

2. If the trouble is a want of sleep after the first nap, get 
op and walk around the room two or three times. With some 
this is a sure remedy. 

3. Lie with the head to the North, for there Is no doubt 
something in the electrical effects of the earth upon the body 
when in that position. 

4. Bad sleepers sliould always rise early and retire early, 
•nd they should never take a nap during the day. 

8. Sleepless persons should avoid exciting conversation or 
leading, hard study, or any kind of mental excitement during 
the evening. 

6. Tea and coffee should never be drank for supper. 

7.. When lying in bed, first draw In the breath slowly, letting 
it out suddenly, then draw it in suddenly and let it pass slow- 
ly out a number of times alternataly. This is highly recom- 
mended. 

8. A cup of hot water taken Just before retiring will often 
produce the desired results. 



128 



How to Sleep. 




UNHEALTHY POSITION FOR THE HEAD AND BACK. 



Many diseases have their beginning in sleeping on high pillows. 

9. Nervous and sleepless persons are often benefited by 
sleeping on a pillow of hops. 

10. In case of nervous irritability a warm foot-bath 
will often produce sleep. 

11. If the above home treatments are not sufficient, take 
from 5 to 10 grains of bromide of potassium just before 
retiring. 

12. A brisk walk in the open air just before retiring 
will often effect a perfect cure. 

HOW TO CHECK VOMITING. 

Home Treatment. — A teaspoonful or two of hot water 
sometimes acts like a charm; a pinch of salt will often 
relieve vomiting; ice dissolved in the mouth, will often 
accomplish what other medicines will not; a mustard paste 
over the stomach is highly recommended. Much, how- 
ever, depends upon the diet. If the stomach is in a rest- 
less condition, only the lightest kind of food should be 
taken, and it can be easily determined in a few days what 
food the stomach will or will not retain. Perfect rest 
is generally more necessary than food or medicine. For 
chronic vomiting lime water is one of the best remedies. 

General Treatment. — Subnitrate of bismuth in 2 to 5 
grain doses, or oxalate of cerium in i-grain doses, or 
one drop of the tincture of ipecac, taken in a wineglassful 
of water. 

Homeopathic Remedies. — Nux vomica and arsenicum. 



Neuralgia, 



129 



NEURALGIA. 

Cause— The cause is obscure in many cases. It may re- 
sult from an impoverished condition of the blood. It 
may be caused by violent passions, strong emotions, ex- 
cessive exercise, mental depression, malaria, or lead pois- 
oning. 

Symptoms. — Sudden, sharp and darting pains feeling 
like hot wires piercing the parts. The parts more com- 
monly affected are the face, the muscles between the ribs, 
and the hip and leg. When it is in the hip and leg, it is 
generally called sciatica. It sometimes attacks the heart. 

Home Treatment.— Bathe the affected parts in salt water, 
Use nourishing diet. Neuralgia in the face is often re- 
lieved by taking a good active cathartic. An external 
application of peppermint is highly recommended. Eat 
plenty of fat meat, and avoid tea, but drink plenty of milk. 
Avoid exposure to dampness. For sciatica wear chamois 
leather drawers. 

General Treatment.— Fifteen grains of carbonate of iron 
three times a day, taken in a little syrup. This treatment for 
a month or more will have beneficial effects. A seidlitz 
powder taken every morning, or a small quantity of cream 
of tartar or citrate of magnesia, will produce excellent re- 
sults. Three grains of quinine three times a day may pro- 
duce the desired results. For neuralgic headache take IS 
grains bromide of potash three times a day. 




REMEDY FOR NEURALGIA. 

Hypophosphite of soda, taken in i drachm doses three 
times per day in beef tea, is a good remedy for this pain- 
ful affection. So is the application of bruised horse-radish, 
or the application of oil of peppermint applied lightly with 

a camel-hair pencil. 
9 



130 



Neuralgia. 



Sure Cure.— The most stubborn cases of neuralgia are 
apt to yield to a hot water treatment. Wherever the pain 
is located, there a hot water bag should be applied. The 
suffering part should be wrapped in a blanket, and the 
unfortunate patient should be put to bed and covered with 
more blankets and induced to drink at least three cups of 
water as hot as the palate can stand. This treatment may 
seem severe, but it is sure to bring relief. 

A Hot Bath, a stroll in the fresh air, shampooing the 
head in weak soda-water, or a timely nap in a cool, quiet 
room will sometimes stop a nervous headache. When 
overfatigued from shopping or sightseeing a sponge dipped 
in very hot water and pressed repeatedly over the back 
of the neck between the ears will be found exceedingly re- 
freshing, especially if the face and temples are afterward 
subjected to the same treatment. Neuralgia is caused not 
only by cold air, but by acidity of the stomach, starved 
nerves, imperfect teeth, or by indolence combined with a 
too generous diet. 

Heat is the best and quickest cure for this distressing 
pain. A hot flat-iron, passed rapidly and deftly over sev- 
eral folds of flannel laid on the affected spot, will often give 
relief in less than ten minutes, without the aid of medicine. 
Hot fomentations are of equal value; though when the 
skin is very tender it is more advisable to use dry heat, 
■nothing being better for the purpose than bags of heated 
salt, flour or sand, which retain warmth for a long time. 

Cold Water, applied by the finger tips to the nerves 
in front of the ear, has been known to dispel neuralgic 
pains like magic. 

Charcoal. — When caused by acidity a dose of charcoal 
■or soda will usually act as a corrective. Sick headache 
is accompanied by bilious symptoms, and attacks usually 
come on when the person is overtired or below par 
physically. This is a disease of the first half of life, and 
often stops of its own accord after middle age. A care- 
ful diet is imperative in every case, sweetmeats and pastry 
being especially pernicious. 

Reflex Action. — Eating heartily when very tired, late 
dinners, eating irregularly, insufficient mastication or too 
much animal food, especially in the spring or during hot 
■weather, are frequent causes of indigestion, causing head- 
aches by reflex action. 



Headaches. 



131 



HEADACHES. 

In considering the subject of headache we should never 
lose sight of the fact that we are studying merely a symp- 
tom and not a disease. Pain, and especially the pain 
under consiaeration, is a danger signal set by nature to 
warn the sufferer that a deep-seated malady threatens the 
body. A celebrated physician once called pain "the prayer 
of a nerve for healthy blood." No truer saying was ever 
uttered. 

Digestion. — By far the most common form of headache 
is that due to a disordered condition of the organs of 
digestion. Such headaches are the results of indigestion 
and constipation, as well as of over-indulgence in eating or 
drinking. A disordered stomach or a sluggish condition 
of the bowels, combined with overwork and too little 
exercise in the open air, are frequent causes of headache 
in persons who pursue sedentary and indoor occupations. 

Remedy. — The remedy for this kind of headache is the 
exercise of regularity and moderation in eating, with an 
avoidance of food which is innutritions and difficult of 
digestion, and attention to the regularity of the bowels. 
The last point is of especial importance. 

Eye Strain. — One variety of headache, the cause of 
which is sometimes overlooked, results from eye-strain. 
The provision of proper glasses, and treatment calculated 
to improve the tone of the muscles of the eyes, have been 
followed by prompt relief in numberless instances. 

Sick Headache. — The following cure for sick headache 
I have used with perfect success, and it is much to be pre- 
ferred to powerful drugs, which injure the system, and 
if taken repeatedly are soon found to lose their efficacy. 
At the same time it is well to remember that pain is 
nature's danger signal, and a warning to rest. After driv- 
ing off a headache, lie down for an hour or two, and keep 
as quiet as possible during the rest of the day. Neither 
the brain nor the stomach should be taxed for twenty- 
four hours. 

Cayenne Pepper. — Mix a tablespoonful of cayenne pep- 
per to a thick paste with vinegar, spread it on a strip of 
thin cloth, which may be folded together, and bind on the 
forehead from temple to temple. Then swallow a "pinch" 
of the pepper — say a quarter of a teaspoonful — in a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. The plaster will 



132 



Headaches. 



burn, but not blister, and in the course of ten minutes the 
headache will disappear under the stimulating effect of 
this treatment. 

Hot Water. — Sick hea'^lache can usually be cured by 
soaking the feet and the hands above the wrists in water 
hot as can be borne; it may have a little salt or mustard in 
it, to keep from taking cold after it. Sip slowly boiling 
hot water, and go to bed in a darkened room. Eat 
nothing until you feel a need or desire for food, then take 
a little milk or a cracker, or some other very simple food. 

Walking Backward. — The Medical Record is authority 
for the statement that nervous headache may be cured by 
the simple act of walking backward ten minutes. "It is 
well," says the writer; "to get in a long, narrow room 
where the windows are high, and walk very slowly, placing 
first the bail of the foot on the floor, and then the heel. 
Besides curing the headache, this exercise promotes a 
graceful carriage. 

Dangerous Practice. — I know of no more dangerous 
practice than to treat headache pain blindly with drugs, 
unless it be to treat insomnia with sedatives. Both lines 
of treatment lead to the abuse of anodynes and hypnotics, 
and as a usual thing result in a continued condition of 
invalidism. 

Constipation. — One very common cause of headache 
which, if not the only cause, is, at least, a great factor in 
it, and amenable to home treatment with medicine, is 
constipation. Of course, outdoor exercise is the best 
possible thing for permanent cure. It is very easy to 
relieve most forms of headache by means of the coal-tar 
derivatives, of which so many are in the drug market. 
These form the basis of the many headache cures found on 
the druggists' shelves. Their use is not entirely without 
danger, for they are powerful heart depressants if taken 
in doses of any considerable size. 

Preventive.— After all, the best treatment for headache 
is preventive, and if we would all follow Kant's golden 
rule in disposing of each day, allotting eight hours for 
work, eight hours for play and eight hours for sleep, we 
would soon leave headaches and the ills attending them 
behind. 



Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 



133 




HOW TO CURE THE HEADACHE, 

Definition. — Megrim, hemicrania or sick-headache is a 
pain in the head coming on periodically and usually lo- 
cated in the left side of the head, accompanied by nausea 
and vomiting. Simple nervous headache may occur in 
any part of head, and comes on irregularly from many 
causes. 

Causes. — The causes of headache are legion. Many 
diseases produce headache. Some of the most common 
causes are fever, colds, derangement of stomach or bowels 
(especially constipation), bad nutrition, and general de- 
bility. Rheumatic and gouty people are much subject to 
sick headache, and it is often hereditary. Insufficient sleep 
and mental worry are frequent exciting causes. 

Home Treatment. — Look for cause, and remove it if 
possible. Regulate the diet and keep the bowels in good 
condition. Plenty of out-door exercise with freedom 
from care, will prevent the attacks. For a throbbing head- 
ache, with flushed face, apply cold water or ice bag to the 
head. Hot foot bath and inhalation of camphor, or mus- 
tard plaster on back of neck. For headache with pallor 
of face, and faintness on standing, apply hot water to the 
head freely, and inhalations of ammonia will often relieve. 

General Treatment. — For throbbing headache with 
flushed face, ten to fifteen grains of the bromide of potas- 
sium will often relieve. For headache with pale coun- 



134 Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 

tenance the inhalation of the nitrite of amyl will, if em- 
ployed early, often cut short an attack of sick headache. 
The following may be used occasionally: 
2 scruples of phenacetine, 
lo grains of citrate of caffeine. 
Mix and make into twenty capsules. 
Take one when necessary. 

Cannabis Indica taken in gradually increasing doses for 
many months will sometimes cure the headache perma- 
nently. Begin with quarter of a grain taken mornmg and 
evening, and gradually increase, until two grains or more 
are taken at a dose. 

SICK HEADACHE. 

Canse. — Eating indigestible food, a lack of sufificient 
sleep, constipation, anxiety, want of out-door exercise, etc. 

Symptoms. — Dizziness, pain in the forehead and tem- 
ples, blurred sight, nausea and vomiting. 

Home Treatment. — Moderate diet, avoiding all rich 
gravies, late suppers, or stimulating drinks. Take a 
Seidlitz powder every morning and evening, or drink a 
cup of strong catnip tea just before retiring, or take two 
teaspoonfuls of finely powdered charcoal in half a glass of 
milk. Cover up warmly and perspire freely. 

HOME TREATMENT FOR DIARRHCEA. 

Great care should be taken not to check the difficulty 
too soon. Look first carefully to the food and eat only 
moderately and very nutritious and very easily digested 
food. Rest and quiet is always necessary to promote a 
cure. If this is not sufficient, take half a teaspoonful of 
common soda three times a day, or take a few doses of 
rhubarb syrup, or blackberry cordial or blackberry wine. 

"Dr. Daniel's Diarrhoea Remedy." 
Tinct. Rhubarb, i ounce, 
Tinct. Catechu, 2 ounces, 
Tinct. Jam. Ginger, i ounce, 
Paregoric, 2 ounces. 
Lime Water, 2 ounces. Mix. 
One teaspoonful in a little cold water, every time the 
bowels move. 

Dr. Daniels has used this remedy in his extensive prac- 
tice for over thirty years, and it always effects a cure. 



Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 135 



L SURE CURE FOR DIARRHEA. 

The plant called "White everlasting," botanical name 
Gnaphalimn Polycephahtm, is one of the best remedies for 
diarrhea. The plant is found in some parts of the United 
States and Canada. The following is the prescription: 

Take a handful of the herb, flowers and leaves included, 
and boil in one pint of water. Strain the decoction and 
boil down to one-half pint. Add an equal quantity of 
milk and bring to a boil so as to scald the milk. Dose: 
For adults, one-half teacupful; for children, accordingly. 
If desired, it may be sweetened with white sugar. 



PLEURISY. 

Cause. — Violent strain or injury. It may be caused by 
other diseases, such as erysipelas, rheumatism, measles, 
etc., but it is generally caused by sudden cold or exposure 
to dampness. 

Symptoms. — It generally begins with a chill and a stitch- 
ing pain in the side. 

Home Treatment. — In the first stages of the disease 
home treatment will generally be sufficient. A spirit vapor 
bath; hot fomentations applied to the chest; or, hot plates 
wrapped in a flannel and applied to the chest are excellent. 

General Treatment.—Give two or three drops of the 
tincture of aconite every three hours. If th'e patient is 
weak this remedy should not be persisted in. 



ASTHMA. 

The foUowing is Dr. Coffin's celebrated method of trsa*- 
ing asthma: To moderate the severity of the paroxysm 
inhale warm steam from an inhaler or the spout of a tea- 
pot. The treatment consists in giving a strong decoction 
of valerian root with cayenne, made very fine and well 
sweetened; immerse the feet of the patient in warm water, 
into which you may put a little mustard. Let him drink 
freely of a str nj tea of yarrow; after which give him half 
a teaspoonful of lobelia with a small quantity of cayenne 
pepper and half a teaspoonful of valerian; let this be re- 
peated till the patient vomits freely, which seldom fails to 
give relief. 



136 



Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 




ASTHMA. 



Canse. — It is hereditary in many people. It may be 
caused by fog, smoke, fumes of various things, as new 
hay, etc., indigestion, heart disease, nervous condition, ex- 
posure, or bronchitis. 

Symptoms. — The symptoms are so well known that verY 
little description is necessary. Loud and frequent cough- 
ing, wheezing, shortness of breath, and sometimes nausea 
and vomiting. 

Home Treatment. — Those suffering from asthma should 
eat only easily digested food. Eat light suppers and avoid 
catching cold. Shower baths every morning are highly 
recommended if the patient is sufficiently strong. Drink- 
ing strong coffee is sometimes a great relief in a fit of 
asthma. Burning nitre-paper and inhaling the fumes is 
very effective. Smoking jimson-weed (thorn-apple) is an 
excellent remedy in some cases. Keep the bowels open. 

General Treatment.— One-half ounce of the tincture of 
lobelia; one-half ounce of the wine of ipecac. Take a half 
teaspoonful every half hour until expectoration begins, or, 
take five grains of iodide of potassium in syrup and water 
three times a day. 



Home Remedies and Home Treatment, 137 




LUNG FEVER OR PNEUMONIA. 

Causes. — Overexertion, exposure to cold, heart disease, 
wounds, foreign substance in the lungs, bronchitis, etc. 

Symptoms. — Cold in the chest, loss of appetite, restless- 
ness and chills, high fever, quick pulse, and rapid breath- 
ing, a patch of red on one or both cheeks, the expec- 
torations of a rusty color or streaked with blood. Pain 
in the chest is always a prominent symptom. 

Home Treatment. — Cloths rung out of cold water laid 
over the chest and renewed every ten minutes, or hot 
fomentations applied to the chest, well regulated diet, and 
some good active stimulant. A good dose of castor oil 
or citrate of magnesia is very beneficial. A flaxseed poul- 
tice half an inch thick placed entirely around the chest is 
highly recommended. Keep the room at an even tem- 
perature. 

General Treatment.— 

Bi-carbonate of potash, 2 drachms, 
Syrup of gum arable, 3 fluid ounces. 

Mix and give a dessertspoonful in water six times every 
twenty-four hours. 
10 



138 How to Ascertain the State of the Lungs. 




HOW TO ASCERTAIN THE STATE OF THE LUNGS. 

Draw in as much breath as you can convenientlj', then 
count as long as possible in a slow and audible voice with- 
out drawing in more breath. The number of seconds must 
be carefully noted. In a consumptive the time does not 
exceed, lo, and is frequently less than 6 seconds; in 
pleurisy and pneumonia it ranges from 9 to 4 seconds. 
When the lungs are sound, the time will range as high 
as from 20 to 35 seconds. To expand the lungs, so into 
the air, stand erect, throw back the head and shoulders, 
and draw in the air through the nostrils as much as pos- 
sible. 

After having then filled the lungs, raise your arms, still 
extended, and suck in the air. When you have thus forced 
the arms backward, with the chest open, change the pro- 
cess by which you draw in your breath, till the lungs are 
emptied. Go through the process several times a day, and 
It will enlarge ihe chest, give the lungs better play, and 
serve very much to ward of? consumption. 



How to Nui'se Typhoid Fever. 



139 




How to Nurse Typhoid Fever. 

Physicians say that in many diseases nursing is of more 
importance than medicine. This is especially true of 
typhoid fever. It has to run a certain course, which can- 
not be cut short by medicine. The vital question is wheth- 
er the strength of the patient can be so husbanded as to 
keep him alive until the poison has spent itself. The 
seat of the disease is in the small intestine, which is ulcer- 
ated. The danger is that these ulcers may perforate the 
coat of the intestine and cause death. There is an un- 
reasoning fear of typhoid fever as a contagious disease. 
It is not infectious if it is properly nursed. It can only 
be communicated from the discharges, and if these are 
thoroughly disinfected there is no danger. A plentiful 
supply of pure air is the first requisite. The room should 
be ventilated, and the temperature kept at 65°. If possi- 
ble the carpet should be taken up and the floor about the 
bed wiped up each day with a cloth, wrung out of a solu- 
tion of bichloride of mercury, fifteen grains to a quart of 
water. A druggist will weigh powders of sixty grains 
each. One of these can be added to a gallon of water and 
the liquid used for disinfectant purposes. It is a deadly 
poison. 

The clothing should be changed whenever it is neces- 
sary. It is inexcusable to permit soiled clothing to re- 
main near the patient because he is supposed to be too 
weak to bear having it replaced with fresh. If properly 
done it will not even tire or distress him. 

Water Cure. — Of all diseases the water cure has prob- 
ably accomplished the greatest achievements in fevers. A 
fever asks for water — its natural remedy. One deep 
draught may cure a mild attack. The hot air bath, the 
Turkish bath, the wet sheet pack, the blanket sweating 
pack have accomplished remarkable cures in fevers. 



140 Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 



TYPHOID FEVER. 

Definition. — An acute self-limited disease, due to a 
special poison; characterized by dull headache, fever, fol- 
lowed by stupor and delirium, diarrhoea, tenderness of 
abdomen, which may show a peculiar eruption, rapid pros- 
tration and slow convalescence. 

Cause. — Special typhoid germ called the bacillus typho- 
sus, which gains entrance to the system through infected 
water, milk, ice, meat or other food. The atmosphere is 
never impregnated with the fever germs. 

Symptoms.— Feeling of lassitude, headache, disturbed 
digestion and sleeplessness, coated tongue, chill or chilli- 
ness followed by fever, which is higher in the evening and 
gradually increases. Diarrhoea usually, and on the seventh 
day an eruption resembling flea-bites on abdomen. At 
the end of the third week the disease reaches its highest 
stage and the fever gradually abates. 

Home Treatment.— Keep the patient quiet, and give 
plenty of fresh air and a nourishing liquid diet. Milk is 
the best; never give solid food, and give the milk in 
small quantities" every two or three hours. Turpentine 
stupes applied over the abdomen to relieve the pain, and 
cool drink or pellets of ice slowly dissolved in the mouth 
to quench the thirst. Good nursing is of great import- 
ance. The urine and stools should be promptly disin- 
fected to prevent the spread of the disease, and a phy- 
sician should be consulted. 

MALARIA. 
(Ague Chills and Fever — Intermittent Fever.) 
Definition.- Disease characterized by a cold, a hot and 
a sweating stage, followed by an interval of complete in- 
termission; varying in length from a few hours to several 
days. 

Cause.— A special germ called bacillus malaria, aided by 
exposure to sudden cold, over-exertion, excess in eating 
and drinking, etc. 

Symptoms.— Chill, nausea and great thirst, followed by 
fever and headache, which gradually subsides as perspira- 
tion begins, after which the person feels quite well, till the 
next chill comes on. 

Treatment.— During the intermission, give a brisk pur- 
gative followed by ten or twenty grains of quinine given 
three to five hours before the chill is expected. Repeat 
once or twice, and the paroxysms will be broken up. 

The fever is most frequent in swampy districts, and to 
insure a permanent cure, the patient must remove to a dry 
healthful locality. 



How to Cure a Cold. 



141 



HOW TO CUEE A COLD. 

The first thing necessary is to get up a free and copious 
sweating. The object is to get the blood in active circu- 
lation and open the pores so that the poisonous matter can 
be thrown out through the skin. 

REMEDIES. 

1. A hot foot-bath and a good dose of strong ginger 
tea just before going to bed. Retire and cover warmly. 

2. A hot foot-bath and a pint of hot lemonade taken 
just before going to bed will produce good results. 

3. Flaxseed tea or a mild cathartic will often break 
up a cold. 

4. If the cold is accompanied by a cough, give the fol- 
lowing prescription: 

I ounce of Compound Syrup of Squills. 

I ounce of Syrup of Wild Cherry. 
Mix, and take a teaspoonful every two hours. 
Also see Home Remedies. 

AN EXCELLENT COUGH SYRUP. 
Syrup of Rhubarb, 4 ounces. 
Syrup of Ipecac, 4 ounces. 
Syrup of Senega, 4 ounces. 
Syrup of Morphia, 12 ounces. 
Mix them thoroughly. 

Take a half teaspoonful every three or four hours for an 
adult, children in proportion to age. 
Shake well before using. 

GERMAN COUGH SYRUP. 
Syrup of Morphia, 3 ounces. 
Comp. Syrup of Tar, 3^^ ounces. 
Chloroform, J4 Troy ounce. 
Syrup of Wild Cherry, 2 ounces. 
Glycerine, i ounce. 
Mix thoroughly. 

Always shake the bottle before using. 
One teaspoonful three or four times a day. 

CATARRH CURE. 
Carbolic Acid, pure, i drachm. 
Glycerine, 4 drachms. 
Distilled Water, i drachm. 
Fluid Extract of Stramonium, 2 drachms. 
Mix them. 

Dilute I drachm of the mixture with 4 ounces of water, 
and use with a nasal douche. 



142 



Coughs and Colds. 



COUGHS AND COLDS. 

These are of so frequent occurrence that we treat them 
more at length, giving many excellent and valuable sug- 
gestions. The best remedy may fail where other means, 
diet, bathing, pure air, etc., are neglected. 

Colds and What to Do with Them.— It would be wel) 
if we could begin by changing the name. The fact is thai 
colds, so-called, are all poisonings, but are brought on in 
quite different ways. The nerves of the skin are shocked, 
and its excretory functions are arrested. The retained 
poison then causes the inflammation or "cold." Very 
commonly the skin has been put into an over-sensitive and 
inactive condition already by overheated rooms, over- 
dressing, neglect of bathing, or bad air; and then exposure 
too slight to be recognized as such at the time does the 
rest. 

Indigestion. — With many persons a " cold " comes on 
when they get digestion out of order, in certain ways. 
Here the acrid fluids, produced in the alimentary canal by 
fermentation, are themselves the poison which throws the 
mucous membrane of nose or throat into inflammation. 
Many colds, and especially that form accompanied 
by fever-sores on the lips, are due to infection. 

Cold Air, if pure, does the most of anything to limit the 
inflammation, and check the growth of germs in the in- 
flamed tissues. A Turkish bath or other sweat bath often 
helps immensely, by restored skin action. 

Diet. — The diet should be simple; any indigestible food 
or eating food rapidly makes the matters worse. Some 
do better on a limited allowance of food, even on fasting; 
others need a generous diet, though plain. 

Remedy. — Doses of oil, cod-liver oil, skunk's oil, goose 
grease, and many other sorts, have been found to help 
certain persons when suffering from colds; but not all. It 
is probably a question of digesting them or not. But 
whatever further medication one may elect, do not let it 
divert attention from the one greatest remedy — cold, pure 
air. 

Best Remedy. — There are many good remedies for a 
cold, but the best remedy is not to take cold at all. 

The best way to do that, I find, is to have so good a 
supply of natural warmth within that outside temperature 
cannot easily lower it, and this I achieve by keeping my 
blood always full, of the oxygen in fresh air, and flowing 
swiftly by reason of plenty of exercise. Then, to let iny 



Coughs and Colds. 



143 



skin do its natural work of being warm, elastic water-tight 
covering for my flesh, keeping it so by the free use of cold 
water — instead of the warm water which opens the pores 
and relaxes the skin's elasticity and by clothing it in such a 
way that its exudations are soaked up and carried off 
quickly. 

First Stage.— To treat a cold successfully no time should 
be wasted at its incipient stage. The herald of approach is 
usually noticed in heaviness of the eyes and a dull, pe- 
culiarly "big" feeling of the head similar to the effect of 
quinine. Physicians say that one in perfect health does 
not contract a cold; it is only when some of the bodily 
organs fail to perform their regular duties that the cold 
makes attack upon the system. 

Quinine. — Two-gram doses of quinine administered 
every two hours during the day are often all that is neces- 
sary to keep the enemy at bay — by toning up the system 
and making it impregnable. These doses may be taken in 
capsules or in cold liquid coffee; the latter covers up the 
bitter taste almost entirely and prevents it from lingering 
in the mouth. Soaking the feet in hot mustard water just 
before retiring, quickly followed by a hot lemonade, is 
efficacious. 

Cubeb. — If the nostrils are stopped so as to prevent easy 
respiration, crush cubeb berries in a cloth and smoke them 
in a new clap pipe, forcing the smoke through the head 
and nostrils. The head will be as clear as a bell in five 
minutes, so that you can breathe naturally and all night. 
Use this remedy only before retiring, or when you can re- 
main within doors, as it is said to open the pores to the 
extent of placing the system in great danger if exposed 
to the air very soon after using. Cubeb smoke disinfects 
and heals and will cure catarrh if used every night regu- 
larly. 

Hoarseness. — For hoarseness, vaseline is good; take as 
much as will adhere to the finger; allow it to slowly creep 
down the throat several times a day and at bed time. This 
is excellent for croupy children, and it is not difficult to 
induce them-to take it, for it is nearly tasteless. A fresh 
egg beaten and thickened with sugar, freely eaten, will 
relieve hoarseness, or take a lemon or sour orange, open 
one end, dig out the inside, sweeten and eat. 

Ginger. — Ginger in hot or cold milk, sweetened a little, 
is a good night drink; the milk covers the smarting taste 
of the ginger to a great extent. 



144 



Coughs and Colds. 



Bad Effects of Steam.— Avoid being over steam as much 

as possible, or if it cannot be avoided, do not go into the 
open air for at least an hour after leaving the steamy 
kitchen. If one had the faculties for a Turkish bath at 
night just before bed time, a cold could be broken up in 
a short time, but the trouble of exposure to steam is ttie 
almost unavoidable exposure to cold air soon afterward. 

Peach Tree liark. — A tea steeped from peach tree bark 
and made thick with strained honey is also very healing in 
inflamed throat and lungs. Nitro-hydro-chloric acid (di- 
luted) is one of the finest remedies for a cough that can be 
found, and is highly recommended at the University of 
Michigan. Ten drops of acid to half a glass of water, 
sweetened to taste; take a teaspoonful every half hour 
until relieved. Do not leave the spoon in the liquid. 
Small drug stores seldom keep this acid, but were it gen- 
erally known and more easily procured, many a hard 
cough might be prevented. 

Mustard Plaster. — When the cold seems to have made 
the lungs its special point of attack, apply a mustard plaster 
mixed with the white of an egg, to draw the irritation to 
the surface as quickly as possible; then follow with a 
poultice of cooked linseed oil meal. If this does not afford 
relief, call the doctor, for the case is a serious one. 

Liquid Tar. — For coughs, an excellent home prepara- 
tion is made as follows: Boil a tablespoonful of liquid tar 
in a quart of rain water; strain through a cheese-cloth; 
place again over the fire; add a pound of horehound candy, 
a cup of granulated sugar and a half a spoonful of pul- 
verized alum. 

Cold Sores. — A German prescription for preventing cold 
sores from coming to a head is to .paint them five or six 
times daily with equal parts of boracic acid and water. 

Coughs and Sore Throats may be much alleviated by 
glycerin and lemon juice diluted wath water, taken at 
night. Hot flaxseed tea with lemon juice sweetened with 
rock candy, is excellent also. 

Hot Water. — A sudden and wearing attack of coughing 
often needs immediate attention, especially in consump- 
tives and those chronically ill. In an emergency, that 
ever-useful remedy, hot water, will often prove very efTect- 
ive. It is much better than the ordinary cough mixtures, 
which disorder the digestion and spoil the appetite. Water 
almost boiling should be sipped when the. paroxysms come 
on. A cough resulting from irritation is relieved by hot 
water through the promotion of secretion, which moistens 



Coughs and Colds. 



145 



the irritated surfaces. Hot water also promotes expecto- 
ration, and thus relieves the dry cough. 

An Acute Cold is very disagreeable and if neglected 
may prove very serious. In its early stage it may be 
avoided by use of camphor. If the chest seems "tight," 
rub it thoroughly with equal parts of sweet oil and cam- 
phor, and wear a compress during the night, of flannel 
saturated with the mixture, heated and covered with dry 
flannel. Three or four drops of camphor in a glass of hot 
water, taken at night, is excellent. If the throat is a little 
sore, use a gargle of ten drops of camphor to a tablespoon- 
ful of water, being careful not to swallow this. Rubbing 
the nose with sweet oil and camphor and inhaling the 
fumes of the latter will help matters when the head feels 
full with a fresh cold. 

COLD IN THE HEAD. 

Camphor. — Five drops of spirits of camphor may be 
given on sugar for cold in the head and repeated twice in 
half an hour. It is usually very effective if its use is begun 
early, when the first symptoms are developing. 

Lemon. — Dr. Willing says: "A simple remedy for cold 
in the head is the juice of a ripe lemon. This is squeezed 
into the hand and sniffed well up the nose. Two or three 
applications may be necessary. 

Air and Diet. — Almost instant relief may be had in the 
case of a cold in the head, by a rigid and systematic prac- 
tice of open air exercise and inhaling long breaths of fresh 
air four or five times a day. This practice, in conjunction 
with a spare diet and occasionally skipping a meal alto- 
gether, will cure almost any cold in the head if taken in 
the first stage of the disease. 

TO PREVENT NIGHT COUfiH. 

When coughing at night is particularly troublesome, the 
thorough warming of the bed, previous to its being occu- 
pied, will often avert an attack. The taking of a warm 
drink, preferably a glass of hot milk, before retiring, or 
better after going to bed, is equally as good. The oppor- 
tunity to warm a bed is not always possible, but it is 
generally very easy to secure a hot drink of some kind, no 
matter where one happens to be. One of the nicest ways 
to warm a bed is by ironing the lower sheet, and as much 
of the upper one as is thrown back when the bed is opened 
After this is done quickly draw up the bed clothing and 
place bottles of hot water or the old-fashioned warmed 
log or bricks in between the ironed sheets. 



146 



Remedy for a Sore Throat. 



REMEDY FOR A SORE THROAT. 

A thin slice of raw fat pork dusted with cayenne pepper 
is by good author ty considered the best remedy for a sore 
throat, and this is the way to apply it, so the greasy strip 
shall be securely held in place, poulticing the throat from 
ear to ear and not slipping down on the collar bone, where 
it can do little good to swollen tonsils, or rolling away from 
the throat altogether. 

Cut a strip of flannel three and one-half inches wide and 
long enough to pass under the chin and tie on top of the 
head. Halve this strip lengthwise, leaving an uncut five or 
six inch length in the center on which to baste the pork. 
When this has been sprinkled with cayenne and applied to 
the throat, tie the upper strings snugly on top of the head 
and the lower ones at the bacK of the neck. 

Another Remedy. — For sore throat, use an ointment 
made of equal parts of melted mutton tallow and kerosene 
oil, stirred until cold, to successfully incorporate the oil; 
apply outwardly and wrap the throat with a soft cotton 
cloth; woolen cloth heats, and is liable to blister. 

Home-Made Gargle.— For lo'-al treatment of the throat, 
the simple home-made gargle of vinegar, salt and water is 
good for a slight attack, but for one more severe, dissolve 
chlorate of potash in water in the proportion of a tea- 
spoonful of chlorate to a pint of water. Gargle the throat 
every half hour, using caution about swallowing much 
of it, as the chlorate is poisonous if taken in large quan- 
tities. Physicians recommend th s in case of diphtheria. 

For Ordinary Sore Throat. — Nothing surpasses a wet 
bandage passed around the throat at night, covered by 
numerous folds of dry woolen goods. A shawl will serve 
for this. Rub the throat well with tepid water, followed 
by lanoline ointment, when the compress is taken off. 

Benefits of Gararlinar. — If people would wa^h out their 
rnouths twice or three times a day with an antiseptic solu- 
tion, there would not be near so much sickness. There are 
any number of proprietary antiseptics that are exceLent for 
this purpose, but many more simple agents that are as good 
or better. One of the best of the latter is carbolic acid. A 
very weak solution of this, gargled and held in the mouth 
two or three times a day, will work wonders. Immediate- 
ly af^er using, one will find that the mouth feels cleaner. 
A great majority of the common throat and lung troubles 
come from the lodgment of disease microbes within the 
mucous membranes of the mouth. The free use of anti- 
septics will kill these germs. 



Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 



147 



HOW TO CURE A SORE THROAT. 

Home Treatment. — Sage tea as a gargle and also as a 
drink. Make a gargle of the following prescription: 
Chloride of potash, i drachm, 
Tincture of iron, 20 drops. 
Water, i glass. 
Mix, and gargle the throat every hour. 

V Domestic Remedy. 
2 tablespoonfuls of common salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls of strained honey, 

3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
14 teaspoonful of camphor. 

Mix and gargle the throat a dozen times a day. 

EXTERNAL APPLICATION FOR SORE THROAT. 

Wring a cloth out of salt and cold water and, keeping it 
quite wet, bind tightly about the neck and cover with a 
dry cloth. It is best to use this at night. 

INCONTINENCE OF THE URINE. 

Definition.— When a person cannot retain urine, and 
also has a frequent desire to urinate. It is a troublesome 
and annoying disease. One may be passing urine uncon- 
sciously during sleep, or may dribble away, which general- 
ly causes chafing and soreness. 

Causes. — In children it may be caused by worms, or 
drinking too much water before retiring, or injuries or 
weakness of the organ. In adults, paralysis of the bladder 
or weakness. 

Home Treatment.— Avoid all acid or salty food, tea, 
coffee and alcoholic liquors. The patient should take a 
cold bath every day, rubbing the skin thoroughly with a 
rough towel after each bath; have out-door exercise; sleep 
on a hard mattress, and avoid hot drinks toward evening. 

Regular Treatment. — If the difficulty is worms, that 
should be remedied at once; if caused by paralysis or 
weakness of the bladder, take one drop of tincture of 
cantharides three times a day and keep the bowels open. 
DIABETES (Excessive Quantities of Urine.) 

Causes. — It is difficult to say what causes this disease 
but it is generally conceded to be exposure, intemperance, 
injuries and certain fevers. It is as common to men as to 
women. 

Symptoms. — Excessive quantities of urine of a very pale 
yellowish hue or quite colorless, which contains sugar in 
large quantities; thirst, lassitude, and great dryness and 
harshness of the skin, also loss of flesh. 



148 Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 



Home Treatment. — Avoid all food containing starch and 
sugar, such as bread, vegetables, pie and cake. Eat meats 
of all kinds, eggs and bran bread, drink skim-milk and 
butter-milk; coffee may be taken without sugar. Avoid 
severe exercise, and bathe the skin thoroughly and fre- 
quently. A competent physician should be consulted. 

GRAVEL. 

Defluition. — Gravel is caused by small stony substance? 
which form in the kidneys or the bladder, and are often 
passed with the water. Some are subject to gravel every 
few months, but where the stone becomes large an oper- 
ation is necessary. 

Symptoms. — Pain in the end of the penis, constant de- 
sire to make water, pain in the bladder just before urinat- 
ing, bloody urine. The only way to determine the exist- 
ence of a gravel in the bladder is by the use of a surgical 
instrument. If the patient suffers from any of the above 
symptoms, the family physician should be consulted at 
once. 

Home Treatment. — Avoid intoxicating liquors and drink 
only soft water, lemonade, milk, cider, alkaline, mineral 
and soda waters; avoid eating. sugar, butter, fat meat, and 
exercise freely out of doors. The patient should take a 
tumbler of cold water an hour before dinner and at bed 
time; frequent baths and warm clothing are necessary. 
When suffering from pain, drink a copious quantity of 
flax-seed tea. 

BRIGHT'S DISEASE. 

Definition. — Bright's disease is a disease of the kidneys 

known by the presence of a substance called albumen in 
the urine. It is more frequently caused by the use of 
alcoholic liquors, exposure to cold, wet, etc. 

Symptoms. — A pale and puffy appearance of the face; 
general pains and weakness; headache and lassitude. 

Home Treatment.— A good test for Bright's Disease is 
the following: Take a wineglassful of urine and put into 
it a few drops of nitric acid; if the patient is suffering 
from Bright's disease, the urine will have a white cloudy 
appearance. Hard work and severe exercise must be 
avoided. Wear good warm flannel next to the skin; keep 
the bowels open and take a warm bath every day. Take 
cod liver oil, drink skim-milk and eat nourishing food. If 
dropsy makes an appearance, it may be checked by drink- 
ing freely of cream of tartar lemonade. 



Dyspepsia. 



149 



DYSPEPSIA. 

Dyspepsia is not only a very common disease, but it 
is a cause or complication of almost all other diseases, 
it makes the lives of thousands poor and painful, weak and 
miserable. As we cannot live without food, we cannot live 
well unless our food is properly digested. 

Any disease may come with, or proceed from dyspepsia. 
The hypochondriac or monomaniac is first of all a dys- 
peptic. Nervous exhaustion is a consequence as well as 
cause. Most cases of lung disease begin with dyspepsia. 
Nine cases out of ten of what are called diseases of the 
heart are really dyspepsia. The heart may ha\>: no or- 
ganic disease, but it sympathizes with the wretched 
stomach, and when the disease of the heart happens to be 
the fashionable malady, doctors tell you that you have it. 

Always in a Hurry.— We Americans are always in a 
hurry. If we were to carry our hurry and bustle only into 
business matters and circles, this characteristic might be a 
commendable one, but when our foreign friends notice that 
this same spirit is carried into our restaurants and public 
eating resorts as well as into the dining room of the 
home, they are no longer surprised at the large number of 
American dyspeptics. 

Health Sacriflced.— An observer noticed that in city 
restaurants the average length of time occupied at the 
meal was less than twelve minutes. Health is sacrificed 
for the sake of a few more minutes to business. Such 
haste is exceedingly detrimental to the health of the 
digestive organs. Unmasticated food is injurious and 
produces inflammation of the walls of the stomach. 

Obstinacy of Disease.— No disease is more obstinate or 
more hopeless than certain forms of dyspepsia. The first 
condition of cure for a worn-out, disordered stomach is 
rest, the small quantity of food on which a dyspeptic can 
live, and gain in strength and in weight is surprising. 

Chief Cause. — Eating too much food is a more frequent 
cause of dyspepsia than eating bad food. Irregular eating 
is as frequent a cause of stomach disease as over-eating. 

Chief Cure.— The chief cure must then be abstinence — 
rest to the wearied and exhausted stomach and a very 
pure and moderate diet. No stimulants, no condiments, 
no over-work, no over-worry. Remove all cause of dis- 
ease. Observe all conditions of health. Eat, drink, 
breathe and bathe as you ought and nature will effect a 
cure more speedily than art. 



150 



Dyspepsia. 




THE HUMAN STOMACH. 



HOW TO CURE DYSPEPSIA. 



Cause. — Excessive and fast eating, irregular time for 
meals, eating too much, sedentary habits, improper use of 
purgative drugs, hard study, or hard work just before or 
after meals, tight lacing, etc. 

Symptoms. — Irregular appetite, pain in the stomach, 
furred tongue, offensive breath, nausea, bad taste in the 
mouth in the morning, an irritable feeling in the stomach 
after each meal, sour or bitter fluids arising from the 
stomach, heart-burn, etc. 

Home Treatment. — Regular rest and regular exercise. 
Retire early and arise moderately earl}'. Avoid eating 
pie, cake, pork, sausage, hard dried meats, cheese, lob- 
sters, crabs, pastry of all kinds, canned salmon, soups, 
and newly baked bread; also all kinds of beer and liquors. 
Eat oatmeal, cracked wheat, graham bread and all kinds 
of fruits that will agree with the patient. Masticate the 
food thoroughly and eat slowly. Drink a glass of hot 
milk before each meal. A little pepsin taken immediately 
after each meal will often give great relief. Drink nothing 
while eating. 

Common Treatment. — The following prescription is 
one of the best that is known and no doubt has cured as 
many people as any one prescription given by a physician: 
"Dyspepsia Cure." 
2 drachms hyposulphite of soda, 
2 drachms sub. nit. bismuth. 
Mix. Make into twelve powders. 

Take one powder every three hours in little water or 
milk. 



Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 151 



"EGYPTIAN DYSPEPSIA CURE." 

Powdered rhubarb, 2 drachms. 
Bicarbonate of soda, 6 drachms. 
Fluid extract of gentian, 3 drachms. 
Peppermint water, yYz ounces. 
Mix them. 

One teaspoonful in a little cold water half an hour be- 
fore meals. 

JAUNDICE. 

Cause. — Excesses in eating and drinking; a debauch; 
dyspepsia, or the use of alcoholic drinks; some obstruction 
in the bile duct, as a gall stone or currant seed; malaria; 
climate, as cool nights succeeding warm days. 

Symptoms. — Derangement of the stomach and bowels, 
constipation, diarrhoea, or bitter taste in the mouth, thirst, 
indigestion, skin has a peculiar yellow color and itches, 
slight feverishness, whites of eyes yellow, stools become 
clay colored, and spirits depressed. 

Home Treatment. — Give a warm bath night and morn- 
ing, adding to the water an ounce of carbonate of potas- 
sium, and give a good laxative, as a tablespoonful of 
epsom salts. Allow the patient to drink a glass of lem- 
onade once in four hours made with bitartrate of potas- 
sium. Restrict the diet to milk if possible, avoiding all 
starchy, fatty or sweet articles of food. 

BILIOUS ATTACKS. 

Symptoms. — Dizziness, loss of appetite, coated tongue, 
drowsiness, tired feeling, vomiting of bile, etc. 

Home Treatment. — Take a dessertspoonful of cream of 
tartar and stir it into a pint of boiling water, and when 
cool drink it on an empty stomach. Repeat this about 
twice a day. Then drink a good strong tea made from 
the root of dandelion two or three times a day, one good 
dose just before retiring. Or a little common soda taken 
two or three times a day will often give the desired re- 
sults. A few doses of quinine will often be all that is nec- 
essary. 



152 



Constipation. 



A STOMACH'S PLEA. 

"Give me only plain food, and not too much, and I 
will ensure a speedy digestion and excellent health; but 
how am I to dispose of the mass of costly rubbish that I 
am daily compelled to receive? Soup, beef, venison, veg- 
etables, puddings, jellies, fruits, wine and many superfluous 
delicacies. How can any sensible stomach digest such a 
mass of amalgamated matter? The stomach of a plowman, 
having only plain food to digest, has little labor compared 
with mine. He assists his stomach in its digestive opera- 
tions by taking plenty of good, refreshing exercise, while 
my owner, after arresting my power of digestion, adds 
thereto by taking no exercise. Is it strange that my 
owner is sick? Give me proper treatment and doctors 
and doctor bills can be dispensed with." 

CONSTIPATION . 

Dr. W. C. Lyman Truly Says:— There is one remark- 
able remedy that can be published here or anywhere. It 
may meet the "How?" of some despairing sufYerer, who 
has endured many things in the way of taking of adver- 
tised remedies, and has been regularly and irregularly pre- 
scribed for more times than he can remember. It is this: 
Simply to chew the food finer. 

Hot Biscuits. — The worst thing to be said against hot 
biscuit, pancakeS; and fresh bread is that they tempt us 
to swallow them hastily. This ends in undissolved lumps 
of dough rolled together in the stomach, in which lumped- 
up condition they remain to the end. 

Laxatives. — The drugs that act as laxatives all have a 
deplorable drawback in common. They leave the bowel 
torpid and insensitive to the stimulus of its ordinary con- 
tents. In other words, they must be taken continuously, 
once their use is started, as a habit, or constipation sets in 
worse than ever as the true and legitimate result of their 
employment. The more irritating and "active" the drug, 
the more profound the exhaustion of sensibility and 
vital activity that comes on after the drug has had its first 
effect. Among these drugs I do not class the ox-bile, now 
sold in capsules and in powder form. That is a physio- 
logical substitute for a deficiency of human bile, having 
considerable merit. 

Good Advice. — Let us address a word to those who 
either find the taking of a laxative tiresome, or know 



Constipation. 



153 



it to be absolutely pernicious, that is, leading afterward 
to still more obstinate inaction of the bowels than before. 
First of all, before beginning that expensive makeshift, 
the laxative, give the matter long and careful study. To 
swallow a laxative is the beginning of defeat. 

Two Simple Remedies.— Two simple procedures will 
usually restore normal action to the bowels. Drink a pint 
of cold water before breakfast, a half a spoonful or less 
at a time, that is, in little sips, the whole sipping exercise 
taking at least twenty minutes. Chew the food to a cream; 
so thoroughly, that is, that it can not very well go into 
solid form again, but will blend witli the digestive juices, 
particularly the bile, and remain fluid. 

Diet. — Coffee and tea, sugar spices, pastry, and hot 
biscuit are to be avoided. Dry toast, or some other 
equivalent of the German zwieback (which must be chewed 
to be swallowed), fruit, vegetables of the succulent varie- 
ties, and rare-done meats are the best foods. Some are 
helped by graham bread; some by figs (the seeds acting as 
exciters of peristalsis); sedentary persons by regular exer- 
cise. 

(jlyeeriue.— Injections of a little glycerine for temporary 
relief are better policy than an irritant taken by the mouth 
—which must disturb and exhaust the sensibility of the 
whole alimentary tract, as it passes along. Ox-gall in 
capsules is an internal remedy which has not this ob- 
jection, and which is a fair temporary measure where the 
liver is at fault. 

Great Abuse. — Let no remedy, however, divert atten- 
tion from the great abuse, an abuse from which constipa- 
tion must be expected and considered due — that of swal- 
lowing food without masticating it well. The writer has 
known constipation that lias resisted all the supposed 
remedies to disappear at once and permanently, when the 
sufferer began chewing her food to the consistence of 
cream. 

Old Age. — In old age a daily drive or gently massage of 
the bowels are often advisable. Horseback exercise will 
benefit a good many. Some cases, where constipation is 
due to a nervous or dynamic cause, yield to high grade 
homeopathy. More fats, such as butter, in the dietary help 
others. But however hard the problem may be, more 
study is what is called for, not a laxative medicine. 



154 Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 



CONSTIPATION. 

Definition. — Inactivity of the intestines or bowels, due 
to weak condition of the muscular walls of the bowels — 
or the lack of proper amount of fluid — from deficient 
secretions of bile, intestinal fluid, or often from a lack 
of fluid diet. 

Causes. — Dyspepsia, sedentary habits, disease of the 
liver, character of food, irregular habits, malaria, and 
lead poisoning. 

Symptoms. — In healthy condition the majority of per- 
sons have one stool each day. In constipation, the bowels 
are moved every three or four days, with great straining 
and distress. 

Home Treatment.— 

1. Beware of harsh purgatives, they make matters 
worse. 

2. A regular hour each day must be established for 
going to stool. 

3. Sufficient time must be taken to permit the bowels 
to become thoroughly evacuated. 

4. Careful regulation of the diet; not too much nor too 
little food should be taken. Avoid tea, cheese, crackers, 
all highly seasoned food, and eat plenty of fruit with 
coarse bread, such as graham, and cornmeal, ginger-bread 
made with molasses, and oatmeal porridge. Plentj' of 
water should be taken between meals. 

These rules should be rigidly enforced before any per- 
manent cure can be hoped for. 

An orange eaten before breakfast, or at night before 
retiring, often acts well. 

A glass of hot water taken half an hour before break- 
fast with a pinch of salt is beneficent. 

Re^ilar Treatment. — If the above rules are complied 
with, the following may be used with benefit: 

Fluid extract of cascara sagrada, 4 drachms. 

Glycerine, i 1-3 drachms, 

Syrup sarsaparilla, 2 2-3 drachms. 

Take one teaspoonful an hour after meals, or once a 
day as needed. 

A glycerine suppository or a teaspoonful of glycerine, 
used as an enema, may act well. 

In acute cases a dose of epsom salts or castor oil should 
be used, or an injection of warm soap suds. 



Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 155 




"DR. DANIELS' CELEBRATED EXTERNAL 
RHEUMATIC REMEDY." 

Fluid ext. of belladonna, i ounce, 
Fluid ext. of aconite root, J/2 ounce, 
Fluid ext. of colchicum seed, i ounce, 
Fluid ext. of arnica, i ounce, 
Chloroform, i ounce. 
Mix the fluid extracts together first, then add the chlor- 
oform, and shake all together thoroughly. Always shake 
well before using. 

To be applied externally only, and thoroughly rubbed 
in. 

RHEUMATISM. 

Rheumatism is divided into acute, chronic and muscular. 

Acute Rheumatism is sometimes called rheumatic fever. 
This is generally brought on by exposure to cold, and 
affects the joints, which become painful and swollen. 

Chronic Rlieumatism is similar to acute rheumatism, 
with the exception that there is an absence of increased 
heat and redness. It is supposed to be the same as the 
acute form, only it is milder, but more persistent. 

Muscular Rheumatism is a disease which affects the 
muscles, and often shifts from one place to another, but 
usually remains fixed in the muscles first attacked. The 
muscles in the back part of the neck and shoulders are 
very frequently attacked, also the muscles of the back. 



156 Home Remedies and Home Treatmeftt. 



Cause. — Usually an inherited tendency; exciting causes 
or exposure to cold, excessive meat diet and insufficient 
exercise. 

Symptoms. — Pain in the joints, tenderness, swelling or 
redness of the skin, swelling of the joints, and soreness of 
the muscles 

Home Treatment. — Wrap the red or swollen parts in 
flannel soaked in hot water or in a hot solution of common 
baking soda and water. Small mustard plasters placed 
over the affected joints or parts are highly recommended. 
Two or three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice in a glass of 
water three or four times a day often produce excellent 
results. For muscular rheumatism keep the affected parts 
warm and bathe two or three times a day with arnica. Rub 
it in with a coarse flannel, stimulating the muscles by thor- 
ough rubbing. A hot bath at bed time to induce free 
perspiration. 

A rheumatic person should wear woolen garments next 
the skin and also sleep in warm blankets during the cold 
season of the year. Take a good dose of rhubarb at bed- 
time. 

NERVOUSNESS. 

It is not a disease, but it is a derangement of the nervous 
system, and may be produced by various causes; mental 
work, fatigue, anxiety etc. 

Home Treatment. — Rest; a cloth wet with cold water 
tied upon the head at night; a good bath every day. Diet 
of graham bread, milk, with plenty of cream and the fat 
of beef and mutton. Seek for the cause and remove it if 
possible. 

Fat for the NerTOns. — Nervous people should eat fat 
food. Every irritable and exhaustive nerve should, if 
possible, be coated with fat. Fat is to a tender nerve what 
an air cushion is to a tired invalid — it eases jolts wonder- 
fully. With the fat should be combined grain foods and 
vegetables for strength, and fruits to keep up a healthful 
consistency of the blood. 

OPIATES INCREASE NERVOUSNESS. 

The longer you take opiates the less you will sleep, as 
they will tend to make you nervous and restless. Bravely 
give them up and depend upon alkalies which are mild 
sedatives and upon tincture of hyoscvamus, which is 
soothing to the nerves. 

Take bromide of potash, borax, salt and phosphate of 
sodium, one drachm of each, dissolved in half a pint of 
water, which contains sixteen large spoonfuls of water, 
roughly estimated. Dose, a large spoonful four times 



Erysipelas and Cancer. 



157 



a day. Drink Dutch cocoa, milk, or water, or any effer- 
vescing drink, but no tea or coffee. 

In the evening, fifteeq or thirty drops of tincture of 
hyoscyamus in a little water. 

If your spine is hot apply a towel wrung out in hot 
water to the small of the back or nape of the neck for 
ten or twenty minutes, taking care not to wet your night 
clothes or to take cold. 

All these measures will quiet your nerves and when time 
is given to overcome the force of the opium habit, if it 
has been formed, you will get sweeter rest than you ever 
got from opium. As soon as you begin to sleep enough 
drop the hyoscyamus. 

ERYSIPELAS. 

Erysipelas is accompanied with drowsiness and some- 
times delirium when it affects the face and head. It is 
produced by exposure to sudden changes of heat and cold, 
which close up the excretorj' vessels and prevent perspira- 
tion. It is preceded by cold shiverings, with alternate 
flushings and fever. 

Treatment. — Wash the affected parts and the surround- 
ing skin with soap, and then apply a solution consisting of 
one part carbolic acid to twenty parts of alcohol. Instead 
of the alcohol some take common mucilage; others vase- 
line. 

Another method is to apply compresses wet with a solu- 
tion of salicylate of soda, one part to twenty of water, cov- 
ering the compresses with rubber gutta-percha tissue. 

CANCER. 

The following treatment has completely cured several 
persons of cancer, and is vouched for: Take sheep sorrel, 
the variety with yellow flower, bruise the whole stalk, 
flower and all, and press out the juice. Boil it down one- 
half and bottle. Apply with a quill three or four times a 
day. Wash the sore with castile soap between applica- 
tions. Drink red clover blossom tea. 

One individual well known to the writer, finding no re- 
lief after submitting to a surgical operation, used the 
above simple remedy, and was cured. Many years have 
passed, but there are no symptoms of the disease left. 

ECZEMA. 

An ointment of equal parts of zmc and tar is good. A 
solution of two teaspoonfuls of soaa to a pint of \vater is 
another good application. 



158 



How to Vaccinate. 




HOW TO TACCINATE. 

Vaccination was for a long time considered a perfect 
specific against small-pox, and the blood once influenced 
by the lymph of cow-pox would, it was supposed, ever 
afterward repel the disease of small-pox, however the pa- 
tient might be exposed to its infection. Experience, how- 
ever, has proved this to be a fallacy, and that persons, 
although twice vaccinated, may be attacked by the dreaded 
disease. It is, however, satisfactory to know that after 
vaccination, small-pox, if it should occur, is always mild, 
seldom pits the skin, and is never dangerous. 

REMEDY FOR SMALL-POX. 

I grain sulphate of zinc; i grain foxglove (digitalis). 

Yz teaspoonful sugar. 
Mix with 2 teaspoonfuls of water, add 4 oz. of water. 
Dose. T spoonful every hour, child in proportion. From 
experience it is known that nothing will break up this 
frightful disease sooner than continued and persevering 
bathing, with the water at a comfortable temperature. 

HEARTBURN (Acidity of the Stomach.) 

There is no such thing as heartburn. What is com- 
monly called heartburn, is nothing more nor less than 
acidity ot the stomach, or a derangement of the digestive 
organs, and can be easily remedied by taking half a table- 
spoonful of powdered magnesia, or half a teaspoonful of 
saleratus, or by drinking a little lime water, or by drop- 
ping a few burning coals of hardwood to a tumbler of 
water, and drinking the water. 



Saving the Eyes. 



159 



SATING THE EYES. 

When the eyes are sore or inflamed, what shall be done 
for their relief? Rest is the first essential, and in a severe 
case, let this mean darkness obtained by a bandage of 
black cJoth, for a day or two. Rest of the body and 
mind, if the eye trouble is the result of overwork, is the 
next essential. Go where the air is pure. It is said that 
hundreds of cases of loss or impairment of sight among 
workingmen in large cities could be prevented every year 
if oculists could send these sufiferers for three months to a 
country home. Avoid wind, dust, and smoke. 

Diet. — The diet should be limited and readily digestible. 
Very little should be taken at supper. The food should be 
masticated very thoroughly. 

Dr. Agiiew. — The late Dr. Agnew used to relate to his 
classes a case where an elderly man came many miles to 
New York to be operated on for an ulcerous malady of 
the eyeball. The surgeons in the hospital declined to 
operate, considering the process to be too far advanced. 
Dr. Agnew chanced to see him at table, and stepped in. 
He sat down beside him and showed him how to eait. 
Two weeks later he went home well, without operation or 
other treatment. 

First Offense. — The first offense against the eyes is read- 
ing or writing in a poor light. Clerks who work by paslight 
in poorly lighted buildings in cities, especially during the 
short, clouded days of winter, furnish many cases of sore 
and tired eyes. If gaslight must be used to any extent for 
close work, the eyes should be shaded, and care must be 
taken not to have more light in one eye than in the other. 

Second Offense. — The second offense is reading with the 
head bent over. This favors congestion of the eyeball. 

Tliird Offense.— The third is reading on trains. Here 
the stream of objects flying past at the window strains an 
eye that is also engaged with the printed page. Too many 
changes of focus, and too many uses of the muscles of fix- 
ation, strain the powers of the eyes. 

All abuses of the sight bring their retribution as old 
age comes on, if not sooner. 

Eye Glasses. — An experienced oculist says that a great 
many people injure their eyesight by not keeping their 
glasses bright and highly polished. They allow dust or 
moisture to accumulate upon them: then they are dim and 
semi-opaque, and the eyes are strained by trying to look 
through them. For properly cleaning eyeglasses a 
Japanese paper napkin is said to be excellent. 



160 Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 
HOW TO DOCTOR SORE EYES. 

Cause. — Exposure to 
cold, dust, injuries, catarrh, 
scarlet fever, measles, etc. 
When the eye feels as if 
there were fire sand in it, a 
competent physician should 
be at once consulted, be- 
cause it is a symptom of 
inflammation which de- 
mands special attention. 

Home Treatment. — Bathe the eyes every two or three 
hours in warm water. Place a few grains of alum in the 
water before using. Cleanliness is very necessary. The 
application of a cloth moistened with a solution of aconite 
in the proportion of one part of aconite to twenty of water 
will prove soothing and beneficial. Never apply hot fo- 
mentations to the eye without consulting a physician. A 
rubber bag or bladder filled with pounded ice and held to 
the eye is a good and safe remedy. 



CAMPHORATED EYE WATER. 

15 grains sulphate of copper, 
15 grains French bole, 

4 grains camphor, 

4 ounces boiling water. 

Infuse, strain, and dilute with two quarts of cold water 
and apply three times a day. 



HOW TO CURE EARACHE. 

Home Treatment. — Apply hot fomen- 
tations, or drop into the ear equal parts 
of laudanum and sweet oil. A pillow 
of hops or salt heated and applied to 
the ear will often furnish relief. If an 
insect gets into the ear, drop into the 
ear a few drops of sweet oil. If there 
is a discharge in the ear, it should be 
syringed out every day with warm 
water and the family physician con- 
sulted. 





Home Remedies and Home TreatmenL 



161 



HOW TO CURE THE GRIPPE. 

D k F IMTI ON.— This wide-spread distemper, socalled La 
Grippe, is not yet fully understood. It probably is due to 
some kind of bacteria. The Grippe has characteristics similar 
to those of a severe cold. 

Symptoms.— General debility, decided soreness and bone- 
ache all over the body, especially in the back and lower limbs. 
Much pain back of the head or over the eyes. 
' Home Treatment.— Live on a pure milk diet for several 
days. If milk does not agree add a large tablespoonful 
of lime water for each teacupful. Boil the milk before giv- 
ing it to the patient and let him sip it with a teaspoon, instead 
of drinking it. 

General Treatment.— In connection with the above 
treatment give the patient 3 grains of quinine, and IH hours 
after, 4 grains of "Antifebrin," a recently discovered valuable 
preparation, which can be purchased at any drug store. 
Repeat the dose of quinine and Antifebrin every three hours, 
making them alternate every hours. Continue until the 
attack is broken up. 

DYSENTERY OR BLOODY FLUX. 

Causes.— Exposure to wet and cold in the chillness of the 
evening, sleeping on damp ground, or between damp sheets, 
malaria, errors in' diet, bad air, excessive fatigue, etc. 

Symptoms.— Begins with diarrhcea, loss of appetite, nausea 
and very slight fever for two or three days; then the true 
dysenteric symptoms begin, to-wit : pain or pressure over the 
abdomen, colicky pains about umbilicus., burning pain in rec- 
tum with constant desire to go to stool ; stools contain blood, 
mucus ami pus, and are evacuated with straining and pain ; 
bloody and offensive discharges from the bowels. 

Home Treatment.— Keep the patient qniet. It is best for 
the patient to remain in bed, though the attack be mild. Eat 
chicken broth, or other soups, and very light food, such as 
milk, cream, rice, etc. A little ice kept in the mouth is very 
SDOthing and will often relieve vomiting. Apply woolen cloths 
wrung out of hot water to which a few drops of turpentine 
have been added. Washing out the rectum with tepid or hot 
water adds much to the comfort cf the patient, and has a cura- 
tive effect. A teaspoonful of charcoal every morning and 
evening Will produce good results. Blackberry tea made from 



1G2 



ffome Remedies and FTome Treatment 



the blackberry root is very beneficial. If tliese remedies are 
not sufficient, a competent pliysician should be consulted at 
once. 

HoMCEOPATHic TREATMENT. — Bryonia alternately with 
aconite every three hours. If there is severe headache give 
belladonna. 




A CURE FOR FROST BITES, 

If any portion of the body has been frozen, keep the persop 
away from all heat until you can apply snow or cold watei 
Rub the parts carefully, but thoroughly, until the frozen flesh 
becomes soft and assumes a natural color. It is best to rub the 
frozen part an hour or more while thawing. Apply olive usl 
or lard after the rubbing has been completed. 

INJURY FROM A RUSTY NAIL OR WIRE 
When anyone is injured by running a nail or wire into 
the flesh, hold the wound over burning sugar a» soon as 
possible and it will prevent the poisonous effect, and little, 
if any, soreness will be the result. 



Home Remedies and Hovte Treatment, 



HOW TO OURB 

Apoplexy, Bad Breath and Quinsy. 



1. Apoplexy. — Apoplexy occurs only in the corpulent 
or obese, and those of gross or high living. 

Treatment. — Raise the head to a nearly upright position , 
loosen all tight clothes, strings, etc., and apply cold wate> 
to the head and warm water and warm cloths to the feet 
Have the apartment cool and well ventilated. Give noth 
ing by the mouth until the breathing is relieved, and then 
only draughts of cold water. 

2. Bad Breath, — Bad or foul breath will be removed b\ 
taking a teaspoonful of the following mixture after eact 
meal : One ounce chloride of soda, one ounce liquor of pot 
assa, one and one-half ounces phosphate of soda, and three 
ounces of water. 

3. Quinsy. — This is an inflammation of the tonsils, o» 
common inflammatory sore throat ; commences with a slight 
feverish attack, with considerable pain and swelling of the 
tonsils, causing some difficulty in swallowing ; as the attack 
advances, these symptoms become more intense, there is 
headache, thirst, a painful sense of tension, and acute dart- 
ing pains in the ears. The attack is generally brought on 
by exposure to cold, and lasts from five to seven days, when 
it subsides naturally, or an abscess may form in tonsils and 
burst, or the tonsils may remain enlarged, the inflammation 
subsiding. 

Home Treatment.— patient should remain in a warm 
room, the diet chiefly milk and good broths, some cooling 
laxative and diaphoretic medicine may be given ; but the 
greatest relief will be found in the frequent inhalation of 
the steam of hot water through an inhaler, or in the old- 
fashioned way through the spout of a teapot. 



164 Home Remedies and Home Treatment. 



HOW TO CURE PILES. 

Definition.— Piles are divided Into two kinds, internal 
aim external, according to the location. 

C;ausk — Uiibitual constipation, violent horseback riding, 
iiuiij^estioti, the use of strong cathartics, dysentery, wearing 
corsets, eating highly-seasoned food, etc. 

Home Treatment.— Use an injection of a pint of cold 
water every morning and take a few grains of rhubarb daily ; 
this will often cure cases of long standing, or take an injection 
of alum and water of the strength of one or twoteaspoonfuls of 
alum to a pintof water, or take two grains of sulphate of iron to 
an ounce of water. An injection of this will stop the bleeding. 

Where there is mr.ch pain a hip-bath of fifteen to twenty 
minutes, if the pain is very severe it will produce relief. 
Apply a bread and milk poultiCv'' four or five times a day is 
also a good remedy. 

CHOLERA MORBUS. 

Cause. — It is more prevalent in warm than in cold climates. 
It Is usually the result of eating excessively of Indigestible 
articles ; such as unripe fruits, uncooked vegetables, melons, 
or intoxicating drinks. 

Symptoms. — Nausea, vomiting and purging, cramps and 
pains, sometimes intense thirst and quick pulse. 

Home Treatment —Let the patient remain quiet and lie in 
bed. Take a teaspoonful of saleratus every two or three hours, 
or make a good strong tea of rhubarb root and drink freely. 
Drop a few live hardwood coals in a tumbler of water, and 
drink the water ; repeat this every two hours. Or make a 
strong tea of the leaves or bark of the peach tree, and drink 
freely every few minutes. Avoid drinking cold water. 

Any of the above domestic remedies will be found efficient 
and helpful. 

NIGHT SWEA TS. 
Nigbt sweats are generally a symptom of weakness, and can 
easily be remedied by toning up the system by eatint; nourish- 
ing food, such as beefsteak, oatmeal, cracRed wheat, baked 
potatoes, fruits, etc. A good tonic may be taken. Bathe the 
body in salt water every other day. A good dose ol sage tea 
before retiring will prove very beneficial. 



How to Cure the Itch, 



165 




THE ITCH INSECT. 



How to gurc tl^e Iktj. 

The itch is an infectious skin disease caused by little ani- 
mals called animalculae, which burrow in the skin and 
cause intense itching. 

2. Cause. — Bad air, unwholesome food, unventilated 
houses, dirty beds and clothing. It can only be communi- 
cated by contact. 

3. Symptoms. — It begins with slight eruptions between 
the fingers, on the finger joints, on the wrist, under the 
arms, on the thighs, etc. 

4. Remedy. — Keep the bowels open and regular. Take 
flower of sulphur and lard or fresh butter enough to make a 
good ointment and anoint the body all over every night 
before retiring. Wash thoroughly with warm water every 
morning. 

5. Take internally a teaspoonf ul of flower of sulphur and 
molasses once a day. 

6. After cure burn clothes or bake them several hours 
in a hot oven. 

ITCH OINTMENT. 

Unsalted butter, i pound. 
Burgundy pitch, 2 ounces. 
Powdered saltpetre, i drachm. 
Powdered. sulphur, i pint. 

Melt, and mix thoroughly together and apply every 
evening. 



i 

166 Aow to Cure Dyspepsia and Weak Lungs \ 




HOW TO CURE DYSPEPSIA AND WEAK LUNGS BI 
MORNING EXERCISE. 

Make a frame that will fit in the door, that can be easily 
taken apart and put together, and then go through the fol- 
lowing exercise: 

Stand in a walking position, one foot in advance of the other. 



By Morning IIxcr<:z^gs 167 

youi Hands on j'our hips, and twist the tumk to ttie side of the 
rear foot as far as possible ; then clian^t' tVei and twi^t to tlie 
opposite side. Repeat fifteen times to caen side Do tlie same 
twisting with your hands clasped beninU your neck, youi 
shoulders well held back. 

Stride standing. Kise on your toes and bend your knees 
outward and downward. Repeat ten times slowly. 

Stand on one foot, your hips firm, and slowly raise youi 
other leg, extended in front; keep a steady balance. Change 
feet and repeat. 

Stand with your heels together, your hands on your hips 
Bend your body forward^ to the side, backward and to the 
opposite side; then forward to complete the circle. Repeat and 
rotate your body in opposite directions. 

Lie on your face, with your hips fim and your feet held 
nnder a bureau; try to raise your liead and shoulders as far as 
possible, with deep inspiration. Repeat, turning your body. 

Bend your body over a bar in the doorway, or your stair 
railing, backward, forward and sideways, with your hands 
clasped behind your neck. 

Place your bar low ; hang under it with your body e.xtended 
stiffly and resting on your heels. Slowly draw your ciiest up 
totouch the bar by bending your elbows outward. Repeac 

Combine these movements with deep respiration, opeiiiiiy a 
window for good, pure air; make each exercise as useful to tn** 
muscles as possible; they are corrective exercises— not ineieiy 
amusing. Rub your stomach with cold watei after the exer 
cise. This treatment persevered in, with self-restraint at the 
table, is the best for dyspepsia and weak lungs. 

A PALATABLE LAXATIVE. 

Make a strong, concentrated infusion of senna leaves, 
strain this through a muslin cloth, and boil in the strained 
liquid as many prunes of good quality, as can be well 
boiled in the quantity of infusion. Stew the prunes in 
the liquor thoroughly, in the same manner as if for the 
table, properly seasoning. When well cooked, put in a 
glass jar, screw the top down tightly, and set away in a 
cool place. Two or three or four of these prunes, eaten 
during the day, will overcome some of tne severest cases 
of constipation. There is no suggestion whatever of the 
senna in the taste of the prunes, and tne effect is most 
desirable. If taken at bedtime, when a laxative is desired, 
the bowels will move nicely in the morning. 



168 



How to Make All Kinds of Ointment. 



3(0^ to malce all kiads of 



HOW TO MAKE ALL KINDS OF OINTMENT. 

FOOT OINTMENT FOR ALL DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 
Equal parts of tar, lard and resin, melted together. 

GOLDEN OINTMENT. 
One drachm of orpiment mixed with 2 ounces of lard to 
the consistency of an ointment. 

PILE OINTMENT. 
2 drachms powdered nutgall, 
I drachm powdered opium, 

1 ounce lard, 

2 drachms melted wax. 
Mix, and apply three times a day. 

MAGNETIC OINTMENT FOR MAN AND BEAST. 

I pound elder bark, 

I pound spikenard, 

I pound yellow dock root. 
Boil in 2 gallons of water down to i, then press the 
«trength out of the roots, and boil the liquid down to % 
gallon ; add 8 pounds of the best resin, i pound of beeswax, 
and tallow enough to soften. Roll in rolls, and apply by 
warming and spreading on linen. 



tiois/ to Make All Kinds, of Linimen* 



169 



HEALING OINTMENT. 
4 ounces resin, 
6 ounces lard, 
2 ounces yellow wax. 
Mix, and strain through a cloth. 

FOR CHAFING AND OTHER SKIN IRRITATIONS 
Rice flour, l pound. 
Rose pink, 5 grains. 
Oil or rose, 10 drops, 
Oil of sandalwood, 5 drops. 
Mix thoroughly. 



aECEIPTS FOR ALL KINDS OF 
LINIMENT. 

BARRELL'S 
INDIAN LINIMENT. 
I qt. alcohol, 

I oz. tincture ot capsicum, 
yi oz. oil of origanum, 
Yz oz. oil of sassafras, 
Yt oz. oil of pennyroyal, 
Yz oz. oil of hemlock. 
Mix. 

ARNICA LINIMENT 
Add to 1 pint of sweet oil, 2 tablespoonfuls of tincture tjl 
arnica. Good for wounds, stiff joints, rheumatism, and all 
injuries. 

LINIMENT FOR OLD SORES. 

(man or beast.) 

Common salt, i % tablespoonfula^ 
Opium, I ounce, 
Camphor gum, 1 ounce. 
Oil of origanum, I ounce* 
Ammonia, 2 ounces^ 
Alcohol, I pint. 

Liniments and ointments should always be applied to the 
patient with the hand; if applied with cotton or a cloth the 
good effect obtained from the friction would be lost. 




170 



Linvnenis, 




A FAMILY LINIMENT FOR ACCIDENTS, BRUISES, 
LAMENESS AND SWELLING. 

Alcohol, 95 per cent., I gallon. 

Oil of sassafras, 3 ounces, 

Oil of orig-anum, 3 ounces, 

Tinct. of arnica, 2 ounces, 

Tinct. of camphor, 2 ounces, 

Tinct. of opium, 2 ounces, 

Tinct. of valerian, 2 ounces, 

Tinct. of Guaiaci, i ounce, 

Aqua ammonia, lyi ounce. 

Chloroform, 2 ounces, 

Tinct. cochineal sufficient to coiot. 
Mix them and make a liniment. 
Be sure and shake well before using. 

SOAP LINIMENT." 

Sulphuret of potassium, 3 ounces; soap, 1 pound; suffi- 
cient water to melt together; add 1 pound olive oil; 3 fluid 
drachms oil of thyme; mix well. This is a remedy for skin 
diseases. 



How t<-> Make AH Kinds of Healing Salves. 171 



DR. DANIELS' CHLOROFORM LINIMENT, 

Sweet oil, i ounce, 

Oil sassafras, Yi ounce, 

Aqua ammonia, 4 4 ounces. 
Shake thoroughly, and add: 

Laudanum, i ounce, 

Tinct. arnica, 2 ounces. 

Chloroform, Yz ounce. Mix. 
Nothmg better in the world for rheumatism, bruisev 
sprains, etc. Rub in thoroughly^ 
Shake before using. 




HOW TO MAKE ALL KINDS OF HEALING SALVES 

A SALVE FOR BURNS, FROSTBITES. 
CHAPPED HANDS, ETC. 
Turpentine, I ounce. 
Bees wax, I ounce, 
Sweet oil, l ounce. 
Melt oil and wax together, and put in the turpentine when 
sufficiently cooled. 

A SALVE FOR BROKEN BREASTS. ABSCESSES. 
FEVER SORES, ETC. 
Lard, Y2 ounce, 
Resin, \i ounce. 
Bees wax, % ounce. 
Then sicep % ounce ot tobacco in 2 ounces of salt wate? ^ 
strain and boil down to one-half the original quantity. The* 
mix with the other mgrcdients while warm. 



172 Htiv to Make A II Kinds of Healing Salves. 

AN EXCELLENT HEALING SALVE. 

Lard, 6 ounces, 
Yellow wax, %, ounce, 
Burgundy pitch, 8 ounces. 
Melt, and mix together thoroughly. 



A SALVE FOR RHEUMATIC PAINS, ULCER6, 
BRUISES, ETC. 

Resin, 2 ounces. 
Mutton tallow, 2 ounces. 
Oil of red cedar, ounce. 
Oil of wormwood, % ounce. 
Melt, and mix thoroughly. 

A SALVE FOR ALL KINDS OF SORES, CUTS, 
BRUISES. ETC., IN MAN OR BEAST. 

White wax, 4 drachms, 
Lard, 18 drachms. 

Crystallized carbolic acid, 3 drachms. 
M«lt the wax and lard together. Stir until cooled, and 
then add the carbolic acid previously liquefied. 



LIP SALVE. 

Take of Lard, i ounce, 

Cacao butter, ounces. 
Spermaceti, % ounce. 
Yellow wax, x%, drachms, 
Alkannet root, 15 grains. 
Melt, and keep liquid over fire for % hour ; then strain 
through cloth and add 

Oil of lemon, 5 drops. 
Oil of bergamot, 9 drops. 
Oil of bitter almonds, 2 drops. 
This is an excellent emollient application for abraded or 
chafed surfaces. Apply at night on linen cloth. 



Water as Medicine. 



173 



HOW TO USE HOT WATER /!.'> A MEDICINE. 
AND ITS WONDERFUL CURA TIVE AND 
MEDICAL PROPERTIES. 



To drink water Internally it should be used at about 100^ 

i^'alir. Hot water possesses more medical properties than al- 
most any otlier liquid or substance. It is a domestic remedy 
that 13 available to all and can easily be applied, 

1. There is nothing better for cuts, bruises, congestion of the 
lungs, sore throat, rheumatism, etc., than hot water. 

2 Headache almost always yields to the application of hot 
water to the feet and to the back of the neck. 

3. A towel folded several times and quickly wrung out of 
hot water and applied over the face will relieve, and many 
times cure, toothache and neuralgia. 

4. A strip of flannel or a napkin folded lengthwise and 
dipped in liot water and wrung out and then applied around 
the neck of a child tliat has tlie croup, will often bring instant 
relief. Apply every five minutes 

5. Hot water taken freely half an hour before bedtime Is 
one of the best remedies for constipation. 

6. A cup of hot water taken just after rising before break* 
fast has cured tliousands of indigestion. 

7. There is no other domestic remedy so widely recommended 
toy physicians for the disease of dyspepsia. 

8. Persons suffering with cold hands and feet will often find 
a o:reat relief by taking a cupful of hot water several times a 
day. 

9. A hot hipbath will often relieve the distressing sensation 
ol dysentery, the itching of piles, etc 

30 The inhaling of steam is often efficient in relieving 
coughs, colds, sore throat, asthma anci Moup 



174 The Use of Hot Water in Diseases. 




HOT-WATER THROAT BAG. HOT-WATKR BAO 



HOW TO APPLY AND USE HOT WATER IN ALL 
DISEASES. 

1. The Hot Water Throat Bag. The hot water throat 
bag is made from fine white rubber fastened to the head by a 
rubber band (see illustration), and is an unfailing remedy 
for catarrh, hay fever, cold, toothache, headache, earache, 
neuralgia, etc. 

2. The Hot Water Bottle. No well regulated house 
should be without a hot water bottle. It is excellent in the 
application of hot water for inflammations, colic, headache, 
congestion, cold feet, rheumatism, sprains, etc., etc. It is an 
excellent warming pan and an excellent foot and hand warmer 
when riding. These hot water bags in any variety can be 
purchased at any drug store. 

3. Boiling water may be used in the bags and the heat will 
be letained many hours. They are soft and appliable and 
pleasant to the touch, and can be adjusted to any part of the 
body. 

4. Hot water is good for constipation, torpid liver, and 
relieves colic and flatulence, and is of special value. 

6. Caution. When hot^ater bags or any hot fomentation 



The Use of Hot or Cold Water in Diseases. 175 



is removed, replace dry flannel and bathe parts in tepid 
water and rub till dry. 

6. For inflammations it is best to use hot water and 
then cold water. It seems to give more immediate relief. 
Hot water is a much better remedy than drugs, paragoric, 
Dover's powder or morphine. Always avoid the use of 
strong poisonous drugs when possible. 

7. For those who suffer from cold feet there is no better 
remedy than to bathe the feet in cold water before retiring 
and then place a hot water bottle in the bed at the feet. A 
few weeks of such treatment results in relief if not cure of 
the most obstinate case. 

HOW TO USE COLD WATER. 

Use a compress of cold water for acute or chronic in- 
flammation, such as sore throat, bronchitis, croup, inflam- 
mation of the lungs, etc. If there is a hot and aching pain 
in the back apply a compress of cold water on the same, 
or it may simply be placed across the back or around the 
body. The most depends upon the condition of the 
patient. 

WHAT HOT WATER WILL DO. 

According to a prominent New York physician, it 
Will cure dyspepsia, if taken before breakfast; 
Ward off chills, when one comes in from the cold; 
Stop a cold, if taken early in the stage; 
Relieve a nervous headache; 
Give instant relief to tired and inflamed eyes; 
Prove efificacious for sprains and bruises; 
Frequently stop the flow of blood from a wound; 
Is a sovereign remedy for sleeplessness; 
Causes wrinkles to flee and backaches to vanish. 



176 



A Brief History of Medicini. 



A BRIEF HISTORY OF MEDICINE. 

Ancient Greeks. — The ancient Greeks in their desire to 
honor the healing art, cherished the myth that the first 
knowledge of medicine came from gods and demigods. 
The Romans, though in general more practical than the 
Greeks, evinced less sense of the importance of the healing 
art, and for centuries held practices of medicine in 
small esteem. Foreigners who tried to establish the 
art at Rome were looked on with contempt and sus- 
picion. 

Cato. — The elder Cato said that these doctors came 
to Rome to put an end to the people. He cautioned 
his friends to let them alone, and preferred to treat 
his family and neighbors from an old hand-book of 
medical recipes which had probably been delivered to 
him by his father, who in turn had received it from 
his progenitors. 

Romans. — Romans of means had physicians in their 
own houses. These men were slaves, for, odd as it seems, 
many Roman slaves were accomplished in literature, art 
and science. At one time the selling price of a slave 
doctor was about the equivalent of three hundred dol- 
lars in our money. 

Julius Cajsar. — After the time of Julius Caesar, who 
encouraged physicians, the art began to "lift its head" 
in Rome, and later men of character and position, though 
generally foreigners, entered the profession. Some of 
them accumulated large to tunes, and one made the 
equivalent of at least five hundred thousand dollars in 
a few years. 

In some countries, where physicians did not thrive, sick 
people were placed on the road-side, that travelers who had 
suffered with like maladies might suggest-remedies. 

Drug Sliops. — Such crude efforts were supplanted at 
Rome by shops, in which various drugs and medicines 
were sold. Then, as now, quacks abounded, and the 
government, for the protection of the people, ordered 
that all remedies should bear a label declaring the char- 
acter of the medicine, the name of its inventor, the sick- 
ness for which it was prepared, with a list of its ingredi- 
ents and full directions as to the way in which it should 
be taken. 

Disorders of Stomach.— For disorders of the stomach 
a favorite prescription was to the efifect that the sufferer 
should read aloud in a clear distinct tone some book or 
speech, and then take moderate exercise. 



A ^rief History of Medicine. 



Physicians were divided, as now, into various classes of 
specialists — doctors for the eye, for the throat, etc. Even 
in those old days women practiced medicine, although 
they did not reach prominence in the profession. 

Surgeons used various instruments, resembling in 
some measure those of today. They had ear-probes, 
syringes, instruments for cutting bones, and the like. In 
very early times dentists came into notice, and an ancient 
author refers to "gold fillings." 

Chinese Doctors. — A Chinese doctor is employed by the 
year to attend the family and keep its members in good 
health. When one falls ill the doctor's pay is stopped 
until the patient recovers. 




THE CELEBRATED DR. KOCH. 



THS GREAT REYOLUTIONS IN THE PRACTICE OP 
MEDICINE. 

The wisdom of today is the ignorance of tomorrow 
is an old but true maxim. Enlightened chemistry, with 
the aid of the microscope, has made startling discoveries 
within the last few years. Old medicines and old reme- 
dies in the field of medicine and surgery have been so 
changed and supplanted by new ideas, that scarcely a 
vestige of the principles and practice of the old-time 
methods remain. Prof. Tyndall, of England, Louis Pas- 
teur, of France, Dr. Koch, of Germany, and many other 
eminent scientists, have made wonderful discoveries with 
the microscope, and placed new fields of study before the 
medical profession. 



Hone Much Mfdicine to Take as a Dose 




HOLD THE VIAL IN ONE HAND AND THE CORK IN THE OTHER. 

Hottt jWIueh JVIcdicine to Take as a Dose. 



NAME OF DRUG. 



NAME OF DRUG. 



Syrup of Sarsaparllla .. 

" Seneka 

Rhubarb 

Tannic Acid 

Tinct. of Aconite Root 

'• Aloes 

" Asafoetida..,.. 

" Belladona 

" Bloodroot 

" Columbo 

•' Camphor 

" Cayenne 

" Castor 

" Catechu 

" Cinch. Comp. 
" Colchicum.... 

Digitalis 

Ginger 

" Gentian Com 

" Guaiac 

•• Kino 

" Lobelia 

" Muriate Iron 

Myrrh 

" Nnx Vomica 
" Opium 

(Laudanum) 

Rhubarb 

" " & Senna 

Tolu 

" Valerian 

Turpentine 

Wine Ipecac (Diaph.). 
" " fEmetic) 
" Colcbicum Root 



1 to 4 teasp'fulB, 
1 to 2 teasp'fuls. 
1 to 2 teasp'fuia, 
1 to 5 grains. 
1 to 5 drops. 
1 to 8 feasp'fuls 
y<2, to 1 teas|)'ful 
10 to 30 drops. 

to>^teasii'ful, 
1 to 2 teasp'fuia. 
5 to 60 drops. 
10 to 60 drops. 
K to 1 teasp'fuL 
-| to 2 teasp'fuia 
/i to 4 teasp'fuls 
10 to 20 drops. 
5 to 20 drops. 
y. to 1 teasp'ful. 
%to2 teasp'fuls 
1^ to 1 teasp'ful. 
'4 to 2 teasp'fuia 
^ to 1 teasp'ful. 
10 to 30 drops. 

to 1 teasp'fuL 
5 to 10 drops. 

10 to 25 drops. 
1 to 4 teasp'fuls. 

1 to 4 teasi>'fui8. 
% to 1 teasp'ful 
34 to 2 teasp'fuia 
4 to 10 d:,>ps. 
10 to 30 drops. 

2 to 8 teasp'fuls 
10 to 30 drops; 



Aloes 

Anise Oil .... 

AquaAmmonia(dilute) 

Balsam Copaiba........... 

Balsam of Fir 

Bismuth 

Bromide of Potassium. 

Buchu Leaves 

Calomel (as alterative) 

Castor Oil 

Citrate of Iron 

Citrate Iron & Quinine 

Cream of Tartar 

Dover's Powder 

Elecampane 

Epsom Salts 

Gallic Acid 

Iodide of Potassium...., 

Kino 

Mandrake 

Mercury with Chalk .. 

Morphine 

Muriate of Ammonia . 

0|>ium 

Paregoric 

Peppermint Essence... 

Pepsin 

Quinine 

Rochelle Salts 

{liubarb 

-■ilpetre 

S'.ntonin 

'yrup of Squills 

" Iodide of Iron 
" Senna 



3 to 15 grains. 
5 to l."! drops. 
10 to 30 drops. 
10 to 40 drops. 
3 to 10 drops. 
5 to 40 grains. 
5 to 40 grains. 
20 to 40 grains. 
1-12 to 1 grain. 

1 to 8 teasp'fuls. 

2 to 5 grains. 

3 to 8 grains. 

^2 to 3 teasp'fuls. 
5 to 10 grains. 
20 to 00 grains 
y 'o 1 ounce. 
5 to 10 grains. 
2 to 10 grains. 
10 to 30 grains. 
5 to 20 grains. 
2 to 8 grains. 
% to y grain. 
5 to 20 grains. 
yio 2 grains. 
1 "teaspoon ful 
•T to 30 drops. 
1 to 5 grains. 

1 to 10 grains. 
y to 1 ounce. 
5 to 30 grains. 

to 20 grains. 

2 to 5 grains. 

y to 1 teasp'ful 
I.') to 30 drops. 
1 to 6 teasp'fuls, 



Childre7i should take from y% to '^yi of a dose, accordincr to 
age. Or divide the age of the child at its next birthday by 2i 
and take that fractional Part of a dose for an aditlt. 



How tJ Meaaur." Medicines. 



17S 




HOW TO GIVE HOMEOPATHIC MEDICINES. 

Time. — The most appropriate times for taking medicines, 
as a rule, are on rising in the morning, and at bedtime. 

The Dose. — The disease, age, habits, etc., must regulate 
the quantity of medicine. In general, it is safe to adopt 
the following rule: For an adult, one drop of 3x 
tincture, or its equivalent in pellets or globules. For 
children and infants from one-half to one-third the quan- 
tity. The repetition of doses must be governed by the 
disease. Acute diseases may require very frequent doses 
every ten or twenty minutes. Chronic diseases once a 
day. 



ISO How to Use All Kinds of Homeopathic Remedies. 




HOW TO USE ALL KINDS OF HOMEOPATHIC 
REMEDIES. 

1. Agne. — In marshy places. — Arnica, arsenicum, carbo 
veg.„ cinchona. In damp, cold seasons. — Calcarea, carbo 
veg., cinchona, lachesis. In spring and summer. — Antimo- 
nium crudum, arsenicum, belladonna, capsicum. In autumn. 
— Bryonia, cinchona, nux vomica, rhus, veratrum An at- 
tack every day. — Aconitum, arsenicum, belladonna, bryonia, 
calcarea. Every other day. — Antimonium crudum, arnica, 
arsenicum, belladonna, bryonia 

2. Alopecia {loss of hair.) — From previous illness, grief, 
etc. — Phosphorus, aconitum, ignatia, calcarea, silicea, china, 
cantharts. 

3. Appetite, Loss of. — Nux vomica and Pulsatilla; if 
there is any constipation with derangement of the stomach, 
podophyllin; if with debility, china. 

4. Apoplexy. — Aconitum, opium, belladonna, nux vomica. 
Predisposition to. — Strict temperance in eating and 

drinking; avoidance of excitement, haste, heated rooms, etc. 

5. Astlima. —Arsenicum and ipecac; if it is a nervous 
attack use gelsemium. 

6. Barber's Itch. — Atimonium tarraricum, arsenicum. 

7. Bed Sores. — Glycerine-cream or calendula-lotion; also 
calendula or arnica plaster. 

Prevention of — Washing the parts exposed to pressure 
morning and evening with tepid water; after drying with a 
soft towel, a little glycerine or glycerine-cream should be 
rubbed evenly over the parts. 

8. Bilious Attacks. — Chamomilla and nux vomica alter- 
nately; if with constipation, podophyllin. 

Q. Bladder. — Catarrh i?/— Antimonium crudum, Pulsa- 
tilla, cantharis. Inflammation of — Cantharis. aconitum 



How to Use All Kinds of Homeopathic Remedies. 181 



10. Boils. — When large looking like carbuncles, arseni- 
cum, belladonna. When there is a disposition towards 
boils, give lycopodium, sulphur and silicea, twice a week. 

11. Bowels. — Inflammation of — Aconitum, belladonna, 
colocynth, arsenicum bryonia; also hot fomentations, poul- 
tices, or wet compresses. 

12. Bronchitis. — Aconite and bryonia alternately for 
acute bronchitis; for chronic bronchitis, bryonia and phos- 
phorus alternately. 

13. Braises. — Arnica (externally). 

14. Bazzing in tlie Ears.— Pulsatilla and mercurius; if 
particularly while eating, with disordered digestion, take 
nux vomica. 

15. Cancer. — Arsenicum, hydrastus. 

16. Canker of tlie Mouth.— Mercurius, arsenicum (idio- 
pathic); carbo veg. nitric acid (mercurial); sulphuric acid 
spray, locally. 

17. Catarrh or Cold in the Head.— Aconite and nux 
vomica alternately; if there is watery discharge from the 
nose, arsenicum and bryonia alternately; if with cold in the 
chest, bryonia and aconite alternately, or chamomilla with 
hepar sulphur alternately; if with hoarseness, take phos- 
phorus. 

18. Chick«n Pox. — Rhus tox. Sulphur, antimonium tar. 

19. Chorea (St. Vitus' dance). — Cuprum, veratrum, vi^ide, 
belladonna, ignatia, cimicifuga, rac. arsenicum. 

20. Choiera Morbus, Cholera.— Use veratrum, ipecac, 
colocynth. 

21. Colic, Flatulent. — Colocynthis and Pulsatilla alter- 
nately every ten minutes; when better every hour or two. 

22. Cold in Chest. — If with dry hard cough take aconite 
and bryonia alternately; if the cough is loose and rattling, 
take ipecac alternately with tartar emetic; if with hoarse- 
ness, phosphorus. 

23. Constipation. — Nux vomica alternately with bryonia. 

24. Consumption. — Phosphorus, arsenicum, drosera, ly- 
copodium; also aconitum or bryonia. 

25. Convulsions. — Belladonna and hyoscyamus alter- 
nately, first using hot water bath. 

26. Costiveness. — Nux voaiica and sulphur alternately 
every night and morning. 

27. Cough. — Dry, ipecac and bryonia alternately; hoarse, 
hepar sulphur and phosphorus alternately; loose, Pulsatilla 
ana tartar emetic alternately. 

28. Croup. — Aconite, spongia and hepar sulphur in rota- 
tion, fifteen minutes apart; when better every two hours. 



182 Jrlo-w to Use All Kinds of Homeopathic Remedies. 

29. Cuts and Lacerated Wounds.— Should be treated 
with tincture of calendula. It works magically in healing 
rapidly and removing inflammation. 

30. Cystitis (Inflammation of the bladder).— Cantharis, 

ap:S mellifica. 

31. Deafness (from cold). — Aconitum, mercurius, bella- 
donna, Pulsatilla, dulcamara. 

From Enlargement of Tonsils. — Mercurius, belladonna, 
calcarea phosphorus, carbo veg. 

After Measles. — Pulsatilla, sulphur, belladonna; after 
scarlatina, belladonna, hepar sulphuris, calcarea; after 
small-pox, mercurius, sulphur, belladonna; from nervous 
disease, phophorus, china. 

32 Diarrhea. — Bilious, chamomilla or mercurius; sim- 
ple diarrhea, china alternately with mercurius; painful 
diarrhea, arsenicum and veratrum alternately. A dose 
after every stool. 

33. Diphtheria. — Belladonna used alternately with mere, 
iod. Where there is croup complication, kali bich., and 
gargle or touch white spots with alcohol dilute. 

34. Diseases of Infants. — Colic and diarrhea, with vom- 
iting, ipecac; obstruction of the nose, with running from the 
nose, chamomilla; dry obstructions of the nose, nux vomica; 
constipation, bryonia and nux vomica alternately; sleep- 
lessness, coffea; fever, with dry skin, aconite; difficult teeth- 
ing, calcarea carb. The pellets may be mashed with the 
fingers before placing on the child's tongue. 

35. Dysentery. — Use aconite aad mercurius cor. alter- 
nately, a dose after every stool. 

36. Dyspepsia. — Pulsatilla and chamomilla alternately. 

37. Dropsy. — Arsenicum, apis, bryonia, china. 

38. Earache. — Pulsatilla, belladonna and mercurius in 
rotation every fifteen minutes; when better every three 
hours. Use hot applications. 

39. Eczema (a non-contagious itching eruption). — Ar- 
senicum, calcarea, mercurius, rhus tox. sulphur. 

40. Epilepsy. — Belladonna, cuprum, veratrum vir. igna- 
tia, arsenicum, calcarea (chronic). 

41. Epistaxis (bleeding from the nose). — Hamamelis; 
(dark blood) ipecacuanha; (bright blood) Pulsatilla; (absent 
or deficient period) bryonia, aconitum. 

42. Erysipelas.— Belladonna if with red smooth skin; if 
with blisters or vesicles, rhus tox. 

43- Eye.— In inflammation use aconite, belladonna and 
gelseminum, in rotation. 

44 Faceache or Neuralgia.— Aconite, chamomilla and 
belladonna in rotation every fifteen mmutes; when better 



How to Use All Kinds of Homeopathic Remedies. 183 

every three hours; if not better in a day or so, take aconite 
and mercurius in rotation. 

45. Fever. — Aconite every half hour. Scarlet fever, aco- 
nite and belladonna alternately; rheumatic fever, aconite, 
bryonia and rhus tox. in rotation; fever in infants, aconite 
and chamomilla; chills and fever, use arsenicum, ipecac 
and china in rotation. 

46. Flatulence. — Nux vomica, carbo veg.; (stomach) lyco- 
podium; (bowels) china. 

47. Gall Stones. — Aconitum, mercurius, podoph, nux 
vomica, china (preventive). 

48. Griddiness. — Belladonna, nux vomica, bryonia, aconi- 
tum, Pulsatilla, gelsemium. 

49. Hay Fever. — Ipecacuanha, arsenicum. 

50. Headache. — Nervous headache, belladonna and bry- 
onia alternately every fifteen minutes; sick headache, nux 
vomica and bryonia alternately every half hour; congestive 
headache, throbbing, belladonna every fifteen minutes; 
headache of females, Pulsatilla. 

51. Heart Disease. — Aconite, gelsemium and digitalis. 

52. Hectic Fever.— China, phosphorus, arsenicum, sul- 
phur, mercurius. 

53. Hiccouffh. — Nux vomica, aconitum, ignatia, sulphur 
veratrum viride. 

54. Hoarseness. — Aconite alternately with hepar sulphur. 
If these fail, mercurius. 

55. Hooping Couarh. — Ipecacuanha, drosera, cuprum ver- 
atrum gelsemium, veratrum viride, or belladonna (with 
head symptoms). 

56. Hysteria. — Ignatia, gelsemium, pulsatilla. 

57. Impure Blood. — Hepar sulphur and sulphur alter- 
nately. 

58. Influenza. — Camphor (the chill stage); aconite (chills 
and heats); arsenicum (prostration); kali bichromicum 
(troublesome cough). 

59. Itch.— Hepar sulphur; also apply powdered sulphur 
and lard externally. 

60. Inactive Liver. — Alternate mercurius sol. and pod- 
ophyllin. 

61. Jaundice. — Aconite, bryonia, mercurius, phosphorus 
(malignant); China, nux. 

62. Kidney Troubles. — Aconite and bryonia alternately. 

63. Lead Colic. — Opium, alum, belladonna, sulph. ac. 
platinum. 

64. Liver. — Enlargement of, mere. iod. also abdominal 
compress; inflammation of, aconite, bryonia, mercurius cor. 



l?-'4 How to Use All Kinds of Homeopathic Remedies. 

65. Lumbago or pain in small of the back. — Rhus tox., 
nux vomica and bryonia in rotation. 

66. Leucorrheea. — Sepia, cimicifuga and caullophyllum. 

67. Lungs. — Inflammation of, aconite alt. phosphorus, 
bryonia. 

6S. Measles. — Aconite and Pulsatilla alternately. If the 
rash disappears, take sulphur; if it hesitates to disappear, 
use gelsemium and ipecac alternately. 

6g. Morning Sickness. — Macrotin in alternation with nux 

vomica. 

70. Mumps. — Mercurius and belladonna alternately, or 
china and phosphorus alternately. 

71. Neuralgia. — Aconite, belladonna and bryonia are 
prominent remedies. 

72. Nerrous Debility, — China and phosphorous alter- 
nately, four hours apart. 

73. Nettle Bash. — Aconitum, if the eruption is preceded 
by much fever. Dulcamara, when excited by exposure to 
cold and damp. Pulsatilla, when the eruption has been 
produced by eating unwholesome food. Belladonna, when 
the eruption is attended by violent headache and red face. 

74. Obesity. — Excessive accumulation of fat, china, apis. 

75. Ophthalmia. — Catarrhal-aconite, mercurius, bella- 
donna, Pulsatilla. 

76. Paralysis. — Nux vomica, rhus, phosphorus, gelsemi- 
um, aconite. 

77 Piles. — Gelsemium and nux vomica alternately, a 
dose every two hours; in chronic piles, use nux vomica and 
sulphur alternately, a dose every night and morning. 

78. Pleurisy. — Give aconite alternately with bryonia; put 
hot water bags to feet and hands, and drink hot water. 

7g. Prurigo. — Of the anus (a popular eruption with in- 
tolerable itching). Nitric acid, sulphur; also glycerine of 
hydrast. or freshly made chloroform ointment. 

80. Quinsy. — Belladonna, mercurius, iod. 

81. Rash. — During teething, cham.; antimonium crudum 
(with diarrhea); arsenicum (with prostration). 

82. Remittent Fever. — Gelsemium (specially in chil- 
dren), arsenicum, veratrum, china, ipecacuanha, rhus. 

83. Retention of Urine. — Nux vomica, opium, aconite, 
camphor. 

84. Rheumatism. — Aconite, bryonia, and rhus tox. in rota- 
tion. 

85. Ringworm.— Rhus tox. and sulphur alternately. 

86. Rickets.— Silicea, calcarea carbonica, sulphur. Also 
out-door air, cold or tepid salt water baths, and a teaspoon 
ful of cod-liver oil twice a day. 



How to Use All Kinds of Hoi7ieopathic Remedies. 185 



87. Salivation. — From mercury — Nitric acid, hepar sul- 
phur. 

88. Scarlatina.— Simple— Aconite alternately with bella- 
donna; sulphur (convalescence); with throat affection 
(anginosa), mercurius, apis. 

89. Sciatica. — Colocynth, rhus, arsenicum, nux vomica, 
go. Sleeplessness. — Belladonna, gelsemium. 

Qi. Sore Throat. — Belladonna alternately with mecurius; 
for quinsy take the above two in rotation, with hepar sul- 
phuris. 

92. Stings of Insects. — Apply a piece of raw onion, or 
saleratus and water. 

93. Sunstroke. — Camphor, belladonna, gelsemium, 
veratrum viride. 

94. Toothache.— Aconite, chamomilla and mercurius in 
rotation every half hour 

95. Tongue. — Coated. — Antimonium crudum (milky 
white); kali bichromicum (yellowish); pulsatilla (roughish 
white; rhus bapt. (brownish). 

96. TuhercHlosis (the condition of the body in which 
tubercules are deposited). — Phosphorus, calcarea carbonica. 

97. Typhus Fever. — Aconite, bryonia or veratum viride, 
arsenicum, belladonna, phosphorus. 

98. Urinary Difficulties. — Where discharge is burning 
and scanty, cantharis; where there is over-secretion and in- 
flammation of bladder, apis mel. alternate with copaiva: 
where difficult from taking cold or with fever aconite. 

99. Tomiting. — From indigestible food, pulsatilla, anti- 
momium crudum, ipecacuanha, iris. 

Chronic. Arsenicum, hydras. 

Of blood. Ipecacuanha, hamamelis, nitric acid, China. 

100. Warts. — Rhus tox. or nitric acid, internal and exter- 
nal; sulphur. 

101. Whitlow.— Silicea fluor., hepar. 

102. Whooping Cough.— See " Hooping Cough." 

103. Worms. — Cina for pin or seat worms and hepar 
sulphur. 



186 



The Stomach. 



OBJECT LESSONS OF THE EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL 
AND CIGARETTE SMOKIXi. 

By Prof. George Henkle, who personally made the 
post-iTiOrtem examinations and drew the following illustra- 
tions from the diseased organs just as they appeared when 
first taken from the bodies of the unfortunate victims. 




THE STOMACH of an habitual drinker of alcoholic stimulants, 
Bhowingthe ulcerated condition of the mucous membrane, incapaci- 
tating this important organ for digestive functions. 




THE STOMACH (interior view) of a healthy person with the first 
soctiuu or the sjiail lutoatines. 



The Liver. 



18T 




The Liiver of a drunkard who died of Cirrhosis of tiie iivei 
also called granular liver, or "gin drinker's liver.' Tiie oigai 
Is much shrunken and presents roiigli, uneven edges, \vitl 
carbuncular non-supj)ur:»tive sores. In this self-iniiic;;eil 
disease the tissues of the liver undergo a cicatrical retnu-tion. 
which strangulates and partly destroys tlie parenchyma of thj 
liver. 




rHE LIVER IN HEALTH. 



188 The Kidney. 




THE KIDNEY of a man who died a drunkard, showing in upper portion 
the sores bo often found ou kidueys of hard drinkers, and in the lower portion, 
the obstruction formed in tlio internal arrangement of this organ. Alcohol 
is a great enemy to the kidneys, and after this poison has once set in on it« 
destructive course in these organs no remedial agents are known to exist to 
stop the already established disease. 




THE KIDNEY 'n health, with the lower section removed, to show lh^ 
Dltering apparatus (Malphigian pyramids). Natural size. 





THE LUNGS AND HEART IN HEALTH. 



190 



Destructive Effects of Cigarette Smoking. 




THE DESTRUCTIVE EFFECTS OF CIGARETTE 
SMOKING. 

Cigarettes have been analyzed, and most physicians 
and chemists were surprised to find how much opium is 
put into them. A tobacconist himself says that "the ex- 
tent to which drugs are used in cigarettes is appalling." 
"Havana flavoring" for this same purpose is sold every- 
where by the thousand barrels. This flavoring is made 
from the tonka-bean, which contains a deadly poison. 
The wrappers, warranted to be rice paper, are sometimes 
made of common paper, and sometimes of the filthy scrap- 
ings of ragpickers bleached white with arsenic. What a 
thing for human lungs! 

The habit burns up good health, good resolutions, good 
manners, good memories, good faculties, and often hon- 
esty and truthfulness as well. 

Cases of epilepsy, insanity and death are frequently re- 
ported as the result of smoking cigarettes, while such 
physicians as Dr. Lewis Sayre, Dr. Hammond, and Sir 
Morell Mackenzie of England, name heart trouble, blind- 
ness, cancer and other diseases as occasioned by it. 

Leading physicians of America unanimously condemn 
cigarette smoking as "one of the vilest and most destruct- 
ive evils that ever befell the youth of any country," de- 



Destructive Effects of Cigarette Smoking. 



191 



daring that "its direct tendency is a deterioration of the 
race." 

Look at the pale, wilted complexion of a boy who in- 
dulges in excessive cigarette smoking. It takes no physi- 
cian to diagnose his case, and death will surely mark for 
his own every boy and young man who will follow up t' -t 
habit. It is no longer a matter of guess. It is a scien' f r 
fact which the microscope in every case verifies. 




lUnstrating the shrunken condition of ono of the Lungs 
of an excessive smoker. 



192 i^i uiu Lessons in Massage. 




A NEW METHOD OF HEALING. 



Home Lessons in Massage. 

1. standard of Qnaliflcation.— The standard of qualifi- 
cation for the practice of massage mav be thus defined : 

First. — Good physique and good health absolutely 
essential. 

Second.— Cleanliness in every particular is of the 
greatest importance. 

Third. — An intelligent interest in the patient's welfare. 

Fourth. — Perfect devotion and zeal in carrying out 
fully and carefully the duties of the work to the minutest 
detail, so as to ensure the confidence of the patient. 

Fifth. — Good temper and forbearance are necessary. 

Sixth. — Absence of fuss and undue haste. 

Seventh. — Intelligence and even refinement are advan- 
tageous. 

Eighth. — A happy cheerful disposition, with vivacity 
and dexterity, readiness and ability, not forgetting a pleas- 
ant, contented face, complete the standard of individuality. 

2. The PertVct H.iiid For Massaiare Work should be soft, 
smooth, dry and flesiiv and of good normal, healthy tem- 
perature. You will find that every part of the hand must 
be made available, and there is no position which the hands 
and fingers can assume which cannot be adapted to some 
form of massage. 

3. The Room Teiiij»erjif nre.— The room should be of 
comfortable temperature, say from 62 degrees to 65 degrees 
F The couch or bed upon which the patient is placed 
>li()uld not ^e too roft or yielding. As little as possible of 



Home Lessons in Massage. 



193 



the body of the patient should be exposed at one time. In 
general massage one hour should lapse after a meal before 
the process is commenced, and the process should extend 
from thirty to forty minutes, twice a day, between il and 12 
in the morning, and 5 and 6 in the evening ; or between 12 
and I midday, and 8 and 9 at night. 

4. Silence. — Always demand silence during the time that 
you are manipulating. Do not talk to your patient, and do 
not allow your patient to talk to you. After the operation 
is over, it is imperative that the patient should be made 
thoroughly warm. I want you particularly to remember 
this question of warmth after every form of massage, 
whether local or general. 

5. For Neuralgias, — For neuralgias of the head and 
neuralgias in general, apply equal parts of chloroform and 
castor oil, and for painful joints you can use the same appli- 
cation. 

For the abdomen, liquid vaseline is to be preferred, and 
it should be used freely from the commencement (always.) 

You will not forget that in all paralytic, and other mus- 
cular affections, you do not use any kind of lubricant what- 
ever at the time of manipulating, but after the operation is 
over it is frequently advantageous to grease the parts to 
prevent radiation of heat, and secure warmth. 

6. Masseeing the Head.— One hand of the operator is 
carried over the mastoid portion of the temporal and up- 
wards to the vertex of the head, whilst the other hand is 
carried over the opposite frontal eminence. Both hands 
are so directed that they meet each other at the top of the 
head. 

7. How Freqently Applied.— The weaker the patient is 
the oftener he ought to have the treatment. The treatment 
should be applied at least once a day, and sometimes twice, 
in order to derive the most benefit from it. Th6 effect 
which is derived from one treatment should not be lost be- 
fore the next treatment is applied. 

8. Usefulness of the Institution,— Experience teaches 
us the usefulness of the institution, as many patients thus 
treated have recovered their health after having suffered 
from diseases which could not be cured by other remedies. 

9. Hand Rubbing. — The virtue of hand rubbing has been 
known for many years. Persons have been revived and 
restored to life and health when apparently dying, by an 
active, brisk and thorough system of rubbing with the 
hands. 

18 



194 



Home Lessons in Massage^ 




lo. What It Will Do, — Hand rubbing or massage wili in- 
crease circulation, temperature, respiration, nutrition and 
improve digestion. It will increase the appetite, produce 
rest and sleep and relieve pain and remove congestion. 
The general principles of thorough hand rubbing will al- 
ways be strengthenmg and stimulating to the system, and 
quieting to the nerves. 



Home Lessons in Massage, 



195 



MASSAGE OF THE BACK FOR RHEUMATISM, BACK- 
ACHE, PARALYSIS, NERVOUSNESS AND 
SPINAL TROUBLE. 

1. Stroking with both hands, one 
on each side of the spinal column, 
from the b'^se of the skull down to 
the sacrum. If on a large person the 
operator had better divide the back 
into three parts, in such a manner as 
to first work next to the spinal column, 
then over the center of the back, and 
finally over the sides, remembering 
that by the last manipulation he may 
conveniently reach the liver or spleen, 
if desirable, in certain cases. In the 
case of an infant, and especially in 
infantile paralysis, we often use, m the 
stroking, only the index and the mid- 
dle fingers, one on each side of the 
spinal column. 

2. Make a closed hand or fist, and 
■ compare the former with the latter, 

^ and observe the difference in the ef- 

'=z::l-~- — - ^rfJL fects of each when applied to the 
General Treatment. body. You will soon discover that 
the movements of the hand partially 
closed as described, are of a much lighter character. The 
annexed figure 
conveys an idea 
of this form of 
manipulation. 

The following 
form of hand is 
that which might 
be called the boat 
or saucer hand. 
The fingers and 
thumb are slight- 
ly flexed, so that cueing kidney tkouble and back-ache. 
the palm of the 
hand forms a concavity. 

3. Kneading with the two thumbs, one on each side of 
the spine, so as to act upon the spinal nerves. The hands 
should be spread over the back, supporting the sides if pos- 
sible. Hacking with one hand on each side of the spine, up 
and down, from th« saerum to the neck. 





196 



Home Lessons in Massage. 




CXTKING NEEVOUSNESS AND LUNG TKOTJBLE. 



A CURE FOR CONSTIPATION, DYSPEPSIA AND 
COLIC. 

4. All your movements must be done rhythmically, quiet 
and regularly at first. When, however, you find that they 
are unattended with any discomfort to your patient, they 
may be carried out with considerable rapidity. But under 
no condition is it justifiable to perform abdominal massage 
in a hurried and jerking manner, 

5. You now efiieurage over the abdominal wall, and re- 
member that all your move- 
ments should be in the course 
of the large bowel, from right 
to left of your patient, upwards 
on the right and downwards 
on the left. Pick up the skin, 

areolar tissue 
and fat by the 
usual petris- 
sage move- 
ments, begin- 

ning in the 

^j^?- .. — r^^"^^^^^;^^^^ '" "v^.^^ r\v\i\ inguin- 
CURING CONSTIPATION. 3-1 region, and 

working round 

to the left inguinal region. If you have to bring about the 
absorption fat, great rolls of fat, you must grasp it firmly in 
your hands and knead and squeeze it as though it were 
dough. 

6. Stroking with both hands from the ankle to the hip, 
the hand on the outside reaching up to the crest of the 
ilium, the thumb of the hand on the inside, with moderate 
pressure, going down towards the groin. (Avoid pressure 
upon the tibia.) 

Friction with the thumb upon the outside of the leg 
from ankle to knee joint, covering principally the flexors of 
the foot. 




Home Lessons in Massage. 



19-; 



7. A Lame Knee Joint.— I would advise you never to 
meddle with the knee joint, unless under the advise of a 
surgeon. If you are not careful 
you might do great harm. No 
other synovial sac is capable of 
such extreme distension as that 
of the knee joint. Under ordina- 
ry conditions the amount of syno- 
via in a joint is just sufficient to 
keep the parts of the joint lubri- 
cated ; but it 
sometimes 
happens that 
the knee joint 
contains over 
a pint of fluid, 
or even more, 
and pressure 
of some kind 
from without 

is frequently necessary to bring 
out its absorption. I have to 
tell you how you are to manip- 
ulate to exercise this pressure 
to bring about absorption. 

8. For Bruised or Swelled 
Le^. — Lubricate your hands 
well with a mixture of equal 



Curing a SwoUen Pand. 




Curing Lameness and SweUing of tue Knee. 





CURING A BRUISED LEG. 



198 



Home Lessons in Massage. 



parts castor oil and chloroform ; place one hand firmly six 
mches above the knee, and the other six inches below it. 
With a fairly strong grip you advance the one hand down- 
wards, and the other hand upwards to 
^, within about four inches of each other, 
-and you will now be exercising pressure 
^ upon the outskirts of the swelling. Don't 
=^relax your hold of the parts, but carry 
your hands bilaterally, that is to say, one 
hand will now be on the outer side of the 
swelling, whilst the other is upon the 
inner side. You then press equally upon 
the swelling with both hands, using press- 
ure and counter-pressure; continue these 
gliding and pressure movements for ten 
or fifteen minutes. Of course, you must 
exercise pressure in direct ratio with the 
pain and sensibility of the part ; if there 
be little or no pain, such as you find in 
bursal swellings, then your movements 
Curing a Leg with an may be active ; but if there be pain, then 
Ulcer. your movements must be slowly, steadiy 

and carefully conducted. 





Pinching the Arm to 
Improve Circulation, 



Q. For Cramps and General Lameness. — Kneading with 
the thumb and fingers, which manipulation is called pinch- 
ing, is also used to reach individual muscles, but is preferred 
on a deep-seated tissue. Kneading with both hands, called 
squeezing, is used upon the lower extremities and upon the 
arm proper for adults. The aim of the manipulation knead- 
ing is to reach the separate muscles with a firm double 

f)ressure and expose them to an action similar to that of 
riction. 



Home Lessons in Massage. 



TO STIMULATE THE NERVES AND INCREASE THE 
CIRCULATION OF BLOOD. 

10. Muscle Rolling. — Grasping the limb with 
the palm of both hands, ana making a quick, 
alternate pushing-and-pullingmotion,and grad- 
ually glidmg downward from 
the shoulder, the muscles of 
the arm will be rolled against 
each other, whereby the cir-^ 
culation of the blood is very 
much increased. Repeat 
three or five times. 




11, Friction. — Friction is 
performed with the fingers 
and palm of the hand from 
the shoulder and downward, 
grasping around the limb 

with both hands, repeated Working the Elbow and 
ten to thirty times. This Shoulder joints and 

should be done in slow time. 
This has a quieting effect on the nerves, and by 
irritating the walls of the blood-vessels the cir- 
culation of the blood in the capillaries is stimulated. 

12. Cold Hands, Lame Fingers, Nerrousness, Etc.— 
Having found these joints free, or freed them if bound, you 
grasp the hand light- 
ly in your own hands, 
and perform what I 
can only describe as 
molar and pressure 



Bubbing the Fingers 
for cold Hands. 





Curing a Felon 



movements, and these you 
must continue till the parts 
have been made warm. 
You then work glidingly 
^ with your thumbs upon 
the dorsal surface of the 
hand whilst your fingers 
are digitating the palmar 
surface. After this you 



200 



Home Lessons in Massage. 




iay the back of your patient's hand flat in your own left 
hand, and with the palmar surface of your right hand exer- 
cise brisk friction and percussion movements. 

13. NerTOusness, Insomnia and Bone Aching.— Circular 

stroking, pressing, kneading, cir- 
cular friction are all to be given 
from the tip of the fingers toward 
the shoulder. 

14, Grasp the patient's finger 
with your thumb 
and the two first 
fingers, and make 
a firm pressing 
and stroking 
movement up- 
ward toward the 
hand; at the same 
time let your fin- 
ger glide in a cir- 
cular way round' 
the patient's finger, describing the motions of a screw. Let 
)wir fingers glide easily back to the starting point (the tip 

of the patient's fin- 
ger), and repeat 
the motions fifteen 
to twenty times on 
each finger. 

15. The elbow 
joint can now be 
manipulated, and 
we next proceed to work the arm between the elbow and 
the shoulder, and here the movements are precisely similar 
to those for the forearm. This part presents a fitting sphere 
for rolling movements between 
the hands, as shown in the cut. 

16. Just as in the upper ex- 
tremity you begin by working 
at the finger joints, you now 
commence at the lower extrem- 
ity by working all the toe joints; 

you then manipulate the foot 

in the same way that you did 
the hand, and work the heel of 

your hand well into the sole of :BubbinB with the Bottom of 

the toot. tha Hand. 





Hints and Helps for the Sick Room, 



201 




Hints and H^lps for tl^e gkk Room. V 

1. Keep the room clean and well ventilated, but avoid » 
draft. Take a board six inches wide, that just fits betwee» 
the sides of the window at the bottom ; raise the window 8i» 
inches, put this board in, leaving one inch space between \\ 
and the window proper. In this way air can enter a room 
without creating a draft. 

2. Never whisper or talk loud. Wear slippers or shoes that 
do not squeak. 

3. Never bring a large quantity of food to a sick person; it 
will destroy instead of stimulate the appetite of the patient. 

4. Always treat your sick as if they were your honored 
guests, and get out your best and prettiest dishes. 

5. Make the sick room as cheerful as you can, and keep the 
house quiet. Have shades on all the lamps. 

6. Do not leave medicines where the patient can reach them, 
I for a sick person will often do things which he would not do 
if well. 

7. Humor the sick as much as possible, and avoid finding 
fault, scolding, or acknowledging that you are tired, etc. 

8. Never go outside the door with the doctor. It creates 
suspicion on the part of the patient. 

9. Be careful to avoid visitors as much as possible. 



202 



How the Sick may Help Themselves. 



10. Change the pillows, sheets, etc., often, and wash the fae9 
and hands of the sick two or three times a day. 

11. Be careful not to allow the patient to smell the cooking 
^ food or anything else. 

12. Do not take sewing into the room, or fuss around the 
room. Whatever is to be done, do it promptly. 

13. Be kind, be cheerful, be careful, and do just as the doo> 
tor tells you. 




HAND STRAPS FOR THE SICK. 



^oca the Sick may flelp Themselves. 

Put up iron screen sockets so stoutly that there can 
be no danger of giving way, and fasten half-inch rope to 
them and at the end of the rope put hand pieces of soft 
cloth or webbing. Set the sockets firmly in the wall 
about three feet apart so as to give room for all possible 
oaovement. 

It is wonderful how a very sick person can move him- 
self by taking hold of the hand straps. It is generally 
much better than could be done by the most skillful nurse, 
and creates less pain and suffering. The patient has the 
advantage of lifting himself to any position he may desire 



ffow the Sick may Help Themselves. 



203 



i 



THE NEW BED HAMMOCK. 

How to Make an Easy Bed Hammock for the Sick. 

A bed hammock is a very simple but refreshing change 
for the sick when pillows refuse obstinately to "lie easy" 
or have grown hotly wearisome. 

Take a bit of very stout cloth a yard deep and four 
feet long, after a double hem has been turned two inches 
deep across each end. Sew a long length of webbing stout- 
ly to each of the four corners. Take two light rods, each a 
yard long ; a small broomstick makes excellent ones. Put 
a stout screw-eye in either end of both rods, slip them into 
the hems, pass the webbing through the eyes and your hem 
work is complete. To use this bed hammock all that is re- 
quired is to fasten the webbing to the bedposts on each 
side, then the sick person can recline at ease against the 
cloth. This hammock affords almost infinite variety of 
position. It can be shifted in almost any form. It may be 
padded with cushions or left cool and single. A person majr 
sit upright in it and eat dinner, or may recline in any posi- 
tion. It is surely a wonderful change and relief for the sick. 



204 



Rules for Home Nursing. 




RULES FOR HOME NURSING. 

1. The nurse, at home need not learn anything which will 
not be necessary for every woman to know or practice in 
her family at some time in her life. Remember nursing the 
sick must be mastered by careful study and attention, k 
cannot be mastered in a few careless and occasional ob- 
servations. 

2. Good intelligent nursing has often more to do with the 
patient's recovery than the medicine. Reading to patients 
(when they are not too sick) in a low, kind and gentle tone 
will often withdraw their minds from their own ills and 
brighten them up wonderfully. It is often worth more than 
a dose of medicine. 

3. Nursing the sick consists of a knowledge of making 
up beds rapidly and comfortably ; washing and cleansing 
patients ; and an ability to study the patients wants in 
changing position ; the giving of medicines, etc. 

4. Learn to make an application of poultices, blisters, etc. 

5. The use of baths and a knowledge of rubbing patients 
with the hands. 



Home Nursing. 



906 




READING TO THE SICK. 



6. How to attend a physician dressing wounds, bandag- 
ing and padding of splints. 

7. How to make a record of physician's instructions with 
regard to sleep, taking of medicines, diet, etc. 

8. How to observe and record temperature, respiration 
and pulse. 

g. A thorough knowledge of the preparation of food and 
nourishing drinks for the sick is very necessary. 

10. Little things requiring prompt attention are always 
coming up in a sick room. The doctor cannot be there all 
the time — and a nurse must not only possess a grain of 
common sense, but know how to use it. 

Reading Aloud in the Sick Room.— "With regard to 
reading aloud in the sick room," says Florence Nightingale, 
" my experience is that when the sick are too ill to read to 
themselves they can seldom bear to be read to. Children, 
eye patients, and uneducated persons are exceptions, or 
where there is any mechanical difficulty in reading. People 
who like to be read to have generally not much the matter 
with them; while in fevers, or where there is much irritabil- 
ity of brain, the effort of listening to reading aloud has often 
brought on delirium. I speak with great diffidence, be- 
cause there is an almost universal impression that it is 
sparing the sick to read aloud to them." 



206 



Feeding the Sick. 



FEEDING THE SICK. 

Trivial Matters. — Matters which might seem trivial to a 
well person are often of the greatest importance to one 
who is confined to his bed with sickness. A careless or 
wilful neglect of such details on the part of the nurse may 
cause what little appetite the patient has to disappear, 
while on the other hand, a careful observance 'of them may 
encourage a capricious desire for food into becoming a 
genuine and pleasurable appetite. 

Bathingr. — Before offering the sick person food his face 
and hands should be bathed. 

Punctuality and regularity should be as strictly ob- 
served in serving the invalid's meals as in giving him med- 
icine. 

Quantity. — The proper quantity of food to offer the sick 
and the extent of its dilution are matters requiring nice 
observation and care. Milk, gruels, beef tea and stimu- 
lants should not be diluted to the extent of making the 
quantity of the fluid so great that the patient tires of swal- 
lowing, and stops before he has obtained the required 
amount of nourishment. 

Hot Foods should be served very hot, and cold articles 
very cold; lukewarm food is unpalatable. In serving hot 
drinks or foods, the cups or plates should be first well 
heated. 

Untasted Food, dishes after use, or half-emptied cups and 

glasses should never be left standing about the sick room. 

Palatable. — Equally important is it to make all food 
look inviting by offering it with the most attractive china 
obtainable, and with only the cleanest of linen. 

Too Greasy. — Food is often made unpalatable by being 
too greasy. This is a common objection to meat broths. 
Mutton and chicken broths should always be skimmed 
several times before they are served. The last trace of 
oily substance can be removed by passing blotting-paper 
or a bit of bread over the surface. 

The Unexpected.— When the appetite flags it is -unwise 
to ask the patient beforehand what he would like to eat. 
Often it is the unexpected which pleases. 

The Smell of Cooking and the noise of the preparation of 
food should be kept from the sick-room, if possible. The 
nurse should not taste the food in the patient's presence, 
or with his spoon, nor should she serve food with unclean 
hands. 

Patients may appear too ill to notice these details. 



Feeding the Sick. 



207 



whereas frequently they are only too ill or too uncom- 
plaining to speak of them. 

A Mistake. — Just enough in the most easily digestible 
form, is the rule to keep in sight. To get the stomach outt 
of order or rebellious, in the hope of increasing strength 
by extra food, is a serious mistake and one that is nowa- 
days often made. 

Jellies. — If fruit is desirable, better give it in the form of 
orange, pineapple, or grape juice, or baked apple, or 
stewed peaches. Gelatin is not nutritious. 

GruelSy well made and thin, are usually to be recom- 
mended for first place. Beef-tea is a starvation diet. 
Eggs are good if digested well. But be sure they are be- 
fore repeating. Scraped beef is a good article. Milk 
kumyss, and cream kumyss suit certain cases admirably. 
The gluten preparations when made quite fluid are of 
marked value, and are not as well known as they deserve 
to be. Hot salted milk is standard in diarrheal troubles. 

Use Your Own Judgment. — If a patient expresses a wish 
for some article, consider the matter. Otherwise do not ask 
what he would like, but bring at the proper time, what has 
been made ready, and serve as daintily as may be. Raw 
eggs whipped up with milk must be taken in small spoon- 
fuls; not at a draught. 

Malt. — The preparations of malt have proved disap- 
pointing, after some years of use, since they came in rec- 
ommended then in the last terms of praise. 

Wine. — Wine should not be added to foods for sick per- 
sons. It only delays ultimate recovery. In slight ail- 
ments, or when not feeling quite well, dry buttered toast, 
with an egg and hot milk, for a meal or two, is the diet 
which commonly serves best. 

Not Much Food. — Only a small quantity of food should 
be offered to any person with a delicate appetite. It is 
very much better that such a quantity should be devoured, 
and the appetite crave more (which can be so easily pre- 
pared), rather than that an excessive supply — especially if 
not attractively presented — should spoil the little appetite, 
and send the whole away with loathing. No food or 
drink should be allowed to stand in the sick room. Aside 
from the danger of unwholesome absorption from the at- 
mosphere, as might very often be the case, the constant 
presence becomes an offense to the eyes, and often leads 
to loathing and dislike. 

Seasoning. — Another danger comes from excessive sea- 
soning. For the weak stomach it is desirable oftentimes 



208 



Feeding the Sick. 



to have just the right degree of spicing to gently stimu- 
late; but it is even more important to avoid an excess, or 
that which will do injury. Pepper should not be used, 
and there is danger in being too generous with salt. It is 
very liable to irritate, causing thirst, and gastric disturb- 
ance may be aggravated by it. 

A Nutritive Diet. — Following- protracted illness, a nu- 
tritive and gently stimulative diet should be taken. This 
may properly include albuminous and nearly all mucilagi- 
»»us substances, fish, game, beef, mutton, poultry (young), 
eggs, peas, asparagus, baked potatoes, etc., with a proper 
proportion of cooked fruits as an offset. 

Fruit. — Apples, sweet ones preferred, baked with an un- 
broken skin, are excellent. Add no more sugar than just 
enough to make the fruit palatable. Oranges are excellent 
eaten at the beginning of a meal, especially in the morning. 

Hot Milk. — Hot milk is regarded as one of the very best 
stimulants. It must not be boiled, which renders it con- 
stipating, but heated as hot as it can be comfortably taken, 
and should be sipped with a spoon, not drank; it is more 
digestible if taken slowly. 

Arrowroot. — Arrowroot is a reliable food for the sick 
room, and many can eat it when little else that is available 
can be taken. One good way to prepare it is to take a 
teaspoonful of the powdered arrowroot, moisten it with a 
tablespoonful of cold water, rub it smooth and add a table- 
spoonful of warm water, then pour on boiling water and 
stir till transparent. Sweeten slightly, and add a little nut- 
meg and other flavoring if desired. Another way, and by 
some preferred, is to boil half a pint of milk, mix two 
teaspoonfuls of arrowroot with a little cold milk, and 
gradually add it to the boiling milk, stirring it carefully 
so that there may be no lumps. A little sugar or salt 
should be added, but care must be taken not to overflavor. 
Use only the best arrowroot, as there are inferior kinds in 
the market. 

Cleansing the Mouth.— One of the first concerns of a 
nurse should be to see that the patient's mouth is kept 
clean and sweet. This can be done by having the mouth 
rinsed with pure water or diluted listerine — two teaspoon- 
fuls to a tumbler of water— after each taking of food. If 
the patient is unable to do this for himself, the attendant 
should do it for him, with a swab of fresh absorbent cot- 
ton, moistened with the mouth-wash, and fastened to a 
small, flexible stick. 



Feeding the Sick. 



209 



Sour Month. — A foul or sour mouth frequently so inter- 
feres with the appetite and the sense of taste that the 
patient refuses food which otherwise he might gladly take. 
Milk especially lingers in the mouth, and fermenting there 
destroys the sense of taste and develops germs which in- 
terfere with digestion. It is much easier to keep the 
mouth clean than to disinfect it after it has been neglected. 

Dry Lips. — In case the patient's lips are dry or parched 
they should be moistened with cold cream or vaseline. 
Glycerine should never be used for this purpose. 

Raising the Head.— When it is necessary to raise the 
patient's head in order to give him nourishment or medi- 
cine, the attendant's hand should be placed beneath the 
pillow, so as gently to raise the head and pillow together. 
In this way a better support is obtained, the operation is 
more comfortable for the patient, and the head is less 
likely to be bent so far forward as to intertere with swal- 
lowing. 

Small Glass. — A small tumbler should be used, and 
should never be more than two-thirds filled. A thirsty 
patient derives far more satisfaction from draining a small 
glass than from sipping from a large one which he is not 
permitted to empty. 

Fluids. — When the patient is being fed with fluids, 
wholly different receptacles should be used for holding his 
medicines, or the association of ideas may be strong 
enough to destroy the appetite, or even to produce nausea. 
This danger of unpleasant association should never be 
lost sight of by the nurse. 

Nourishment should never be offered at inopportune 
times. In serious cases only need the patient be aroused 
from sleep to take nourishment or medicine. During the 
night food of some sort should always be at hand to be 
given to the patient in case he should need it. 



210 The Care and Feeding of Infants » 



The Care and Feeding of Infants. 

1 The Great Mortality of Infants.— The great mortality 
of infants is now no longer attributed so much to hand-feed- 
ing as to the injudicious manner in which it is generally 
conducted. Infants die more on account of ignorance of 
parents than quaUty of food. 

2. The Wasting Diseases of Infants and Children.— One 
of the highest authorities on the treatment of infants says: 
"There is another class of cases where nutrition is equally 
unsatisfactory, although the supply of food is liberal enough. 
These cases occur where weaning is premature, or where 
the child has been brought up by hand and the kind of food 
chosen to replace the natural nourishment is injudiciously 
selected, so that the limited digestive power of the child is 
unable to convert it into material necessary for growth and 
development. Here the diet substituted for the mother's 
milk, although nutritious enough in itself, yet supplies little 
nutriment to the infant. 

3. Deficient Degree of Nutrition, — Weakness in a chila 
otherwise healthy, shows a deficient degree of nutri- 
tion, and therefore calls for an increased supply of nourish- 
ment, yet at the same time calls for increased care in the 
selection of the kind of food. There is a difference between 
food and nourishment. The very fact that the secretion of 
saliva in the young child does not become established until 
the third month after birth seems to indicate that before 
that age starchy foods are unsuited to the infant, as salivais 
one of the most important agents in the digestion of starchy 
foods. 

4. Cow's Milk and Condensed Milk. — Cow's milk and 
condensed milk, although diluted, are also improper food for 
infants when used alone. To quote from Dr. Routh, "Cow's 
milk, except the animal has been fed exclusively upon grass, 
is almost always acid in stall-fed cows; human milk is al- 
ways alkaline; hence, another reason why cow's milk disa* 
grees with many children." 

5. Not Free From Danger.— Even those children who 
are fed entirely upon cow's milk are not free from danger. 
Cow's milk contains a larger quantity of solid matter than a 
woman's milk, owing principally to an increase in the 
amount of caseine (cheese.) 

Children are, no doubt, frequently found to thrive upon 
this diet, their digestive power being equal to the demands, 
made upon it. Others, however, and by far the largest proi 



212 



The Care and Feeding of Infants. 



portion, are not equal to this daily call upon their powers. 
They cannot assimilate this mass of curd. Consequently, 
unless rejected by vomiting, it passes through them undi- 
gested; their wants are not supplied and they starve for 
lack of nourishment, although swallowing every day a quan- 
tity of milk which would be ample support for a much 
stronger and healthier infant. Such children are exceed- 
ingly restless and irritable. 

6. Stools Should Be Carefully Examined.— In all cases* 
where the food of an infant is found to be insufficient or un- 
satisfactory the stools should be carefully examined, and if, 
as is so frequently the case, they are found to consist of 
pale, round, hard lumps, showing a cheesy appearance, the 
necessary precautions in providing the child with a diet he 
is capable of digesting should at once be seriously con- 
sidered. 

7. Difference Between Cow's Milk and Woman's Milk, 

■ — A more important difference is the denseness of the clot 
formed by the curd of cow's milk. Ample dilution with water 
does not affect this property. Under the action of the gas- 
tric juice the particles of caseine still run together into a 
solid compact lump. This is not the case with milk 
from the breast. Human milk forms a light, loose clot, 
which is readily disintegrated and digested in the stomach. 
The difficulty wliich even the strongest children find in 
digesting cow's milk is shown by the masses of hard curd 
which a child fed exclusively on this diet passes daily from 
the bowels. The difference between the milks is answer- 
able for much of the trouble and disappointment experi- 
enced in bringing up infants by hand ; and unless measures 
are adopted to hinder the firm clotting of the caseine, 
serious dangers may arise. 

8. Sng'ar Must Be Increased. — In order, then, that cow's 
milk in chemical composition and physical properties, may 
therefore be fit for an infant's use, the proportion of sugar 
must be increased, the proportion of caseine must be re- 
duced and made easily digestible, and it must be rendered 
alkaline. 

9. Artificial Food.— Many different kinds of artificial 
food have been patented, but no doubt Mellin's Food is 
among the best now in use. 

10 Sterilized Milk. — In using cows milk it should al- 
ways be sterilized even if some Mellin's Food or other 
preparations are mixed into it. See other portions of the 
book. 



The Care of Infants. 



213 



FEEDING INFANTS. 

1. The best food for infants is mother's milk ; next best 
is cow's milk. Cow's milk contains about three times as 
much curd and one-half as much sugar, and it should be re- 
duced with two parts of water. 

2. In feeding cow's milk there is too little cream and too 
little sugar, and there is no doubt no better preparation 
than Mellin's food to mix it with (accordmg to directions). 

3. Children being fed on food lacking fat generally have 
their teeth come late ; their muscles will be flabby and 
bones soft. Children will be too fat when their food con- 
tains too much sugar. Sugar always makes their flesh soft 
and flabby. 

4. During the two first months the baby should be fed 
every two hours during the day, and two or three times dur- 
ing the night, but no more. Ten or eleven feedings 
for twenty-four hours is all a child will bear and remain 
healthy. At three months the child may be fed every three 
hours instead of every two. 

5. Children can be taught regular habits by being fed and 
put to sleep at the same time every day and evening. 
Nervous diseases are caused by irregular hours of sleep and 
diet, and the use of soothing medicines. 

6. A child five or six months old should not be fed during 
the night — from nine in the evening until six or seven in 
the morning, as overfeeding causes most of the wakefulness 
and nervousness of children during the night. 

7. If a child vomits soon after taking the bottle, and there 
is an appearance of undigested food in the stool, it is a sign 
of overfeeding. If a large part of the bottle has been vom- 
ited, avoid the next bottle at regular time and pass over.one 
bottle. If the child is nursing the same principles apply. 

8. If a child empties its bottle and sucks vigorously its 
fingers after the bottle is emptied, it is very evident that the 
child is not fed enough, and should have its food gradually 
increased. 

9. Give the baby a little cold water several times a day. 



INFANTILE CONTULSIONS. 

Definition. — An infantile convulsion corresponds to a 
chill in an adult, and is the most common brain affection 
among children. 

Causes.— Anything that irritates the nervous system may 
cause convulsions in the child, as teething, indigestible 
food, worms, dropsy of the brain, hereditary constitution, or 
they may be the accompanying symptom in nearly all the 



214 



The Care of Infants. 



acute diseases of children, or when the eruption is sup- 
pressed in eruptive diseases. 

Symptoms.— In case of convulsions of a child parents 
usually become frightened, and very rarely do the things 
that should be done in order to afford relief . The child, 
previous to the fit, is usually irritable, and the twitching of 
the muscles of the face may be noticed, or it may come on 
suddenly without warning. The child becomes insensible, 
clenches its hands tightly, lips turn blue, and the eyes be- 
come fixed, usually frothing from the mouth with head 
turned back. The convulsion generally lasts two or three 
minutes ; sometimes, however, as long as ten or fifteen 
minutes, but rarely. 

Remedy.— Give the child a warm bath and rub gently. 
Clothes wrung out of cold water and applied to the lower and 
back part of the head and plenty of fresh air will usually 
relieve the convulsion. Be sure and loosen the clothing 
around the child's neck. After the convulsion is over, give 
the child a few doses of potassic bromide, and an injection 
of castor oil if the abdomen is swollen. Potassic 
bromide should be kept in the house, to use in case of 
necessity. 




THE OLD-TIME ROCKING-HORSE. 



Dangers of Over-Feeding. 



215 



A Warning to Mothers. 



THE DANGERS OF OVERFEEDINa. 

Many young children suffer from overfeeding. Mothers, 
eager for their babies to become fat, or fearful that their 
crying may be from hunger, unwittingly feed them too 
often. 

A child of three months was recently brought to a physi- 
cian, because it suffered from colic pains, diarrhcEa and 
vomiting, and was poorly nourished. It appeared that the 
child had been fed as often as it would take food, which 
was sometimes as frequently as once an hour. A proper 
lengthening of the intervals between the feedings, under 
the physician's advice, was productive of good results. 
Similar cases are not uncommon. 

A child of between six weeks and six months of age 
should not he fed oftener than once in three hours. From 
six months to ten months it should not be fed more than six 
times in the twenty-four hours, and at intervals of three 
hours during the day-time. At ten months, five times in the 
twenty-four hours is sufficient for healthy children. 

The stomachs of most children who are too frequently 
fed become irritable and incapable of retaining food, while 
the milk fed in this way by the mother becomes so altered 
as to afford less nourishment than it should. 

Other children too frequently fed will continue to digest 
and absorb the excess of food given them, and as a conse- 
quence will accumulate fat, sometimes showing the result 
of overfeeding merely in eczematous, or scaly, patches on 
the cheeks, or even the whole face and head. 

When intestinal disorders result, as in the end they surely 
will, from too frequent feeding, the child will be really 
hungry ; the surplus food acting as an irritant in the intes- 
tines is expelled before a sufficient amount for nourishment 
becomes absorbed. The child will then waste away, and if 
such treatment be persisted in — and if it survives — will 
surely become a victim to chronic intestinal disorders. 

Mothers cannot be too deeply impressed with the import- 
ance of regular feeding at proper intervals. 



2 1 6 To Preserve the Health and Life of I nfants. 




HOW TO PRESERVE THE HEALTH AND LIFE OF YOUR 
INFANT DURING HOT WEATHER. 



BA THING, 

1. Bathe infants daily in tepid water and even twice a day 
in liot weather. 

If delicate they should be sponged instead of immersing 
them in water, but cleanliness is absolutely necessary for the 
health of infants. 

CLOTHING. 

2. Put no bands in their clothing, but make all garments 
to hang loosely from the shoulders, and have all their clothing 
scrupulously clean, even the diaper should not be re used with^ 
out rinsing. 



To preserve the Health and Life of Infants, 217 

SLEEP ALONE. 

3. The child should in all cases sleep by itself on a cot or in 
A ciib and retire at a regular hour. A ciiild always early 
taught to go to sleep without rocking or nursing is the healthier 
and happier for it. Beginai ftiWAand this will be easily ac- 
complished. 

CORDIALS AND SOOTHING SYRUPS. 

4. Never give cordials, soothing syrups, sleeping drops, etc., 
Without the advice of a physician. A child that frets and 
floes not sleep is either hungry or ill. If ill it needs a physician. 
Never give candy or cake to quiet a small child, they are sure 
to produce disorders of the stomach, diarrhoea or som^ other 
trouble. 

FRESH AIR. 

5. Children should have plenty of fresh air summer as well 
as winter. Avoid the severe hot sun and the heated kitchen 
for infants in summer. Heat is the great destroyer of infants. 
In excessive hot weather feed them with chips of ice occa- 
eionally, if you have it. 

CLEAN HOUSES. 

6. Keep your house clean and cool and well aired night 
and day. Your cellars cleared of all rubbish and white- 
washed every spring, your drains cleaned with strong solu- 
tion of copperas or chloride of lime, poured down them once 
a week. Keep your gutters and yards clean and insist 
upon your neighbors doing the same. 

EVACUATIONS OF A CHILD. 

7. The healthy motion varies from light orange yellow to 
greenish yellow, in number, two to four times daily. Smell 
should never be offensive. Slimy mucous-like jelly pas- 
sages indicate worms. Pale green, offensive, acrid motions 
indicate disordered stomach. Dark green indicate acid 
secretions and a more serious trouble. 

Fetid dark brown stools are present in chronic diarrhoea. 
Putty-like pasty passages are due to acidity curdling the milk 
or to torpid liver. 



''l\%How to preserve thej-lealth and Life of your Infant. 




BREAST MILK. 

8. Breast milk is the only proper food for infants, until after 
the'second summer. If the supply is small keep what you have 
and feed the child in connection with it, for if the babe is ill 
this breast milk may be all that will save its life. 

STERILIZED MILK. 

9. Milk is the best food. Goat's milk best, cow's milk 
next. If the child thrives on this nothing else should be 
given during the hot weather, until the front teeth are cut. 
Get fresh cow's milk twice a day if the child requires food 
in the night, pour it into a glass fruit jar with one-third 
pure water for a child under three months old, afterwards 
the proportion of water may be less and less, also a trifle 
of sugar may be added. 

Then place the jar in a kettle or pan of cold water, 
like the bottom of an oatmeal kettle. Leave the cover 
of the jar loose. Place it on the stove and let the water 
come to a boil and boil ten minutes, screw down the cover 
tight and boil ten minutes more, then remove from the fire, 
and allow it to cool in the water slowly so as not to break the 
jar. When partly cool put on the ice or in a cool place, and 
keep tightly covered except when the milk is poured out for 
use. The glass jar must be kept perfectly clean and washed 



To preserve the Health and Life of Infants. 219 



and scalded carefully before use. A tablespoonful of lime 
water to a bottle of milk will aid in digestion. Discard the 
bottle as soon as possible and use a cup which you know is 
clean, whereas a bottle must be kept in water constantly when 
not in use, or the sour milk will make the child sick. Use no 
tube for it is exceedingly hard to keep it clean, and if pure 
milk cannot be had, condensed milk is admirable and does not 
need to be sterilized as the above. 

DIET. 

10. Never give babies under two years old such food as grown 
persons eat. Their chief diet should be milk, wheat bread 
and milk, oatmeal, possibly a little rare boiled egg, but always 
and chiefly milk. Germ wheat is also excellent. 

EXERCISE. 

11. Children should have 
exercise in the house as well 
as outdoors, but should not 
be jolted and jumped and 
jarred in rough play, not 
rudely rocked in the cradle, 
nor carelessly trundled over 
bumps in their carriages. 
They should not be held too 
much in the arms, but al- 
lowed to crawl and kick 
upon the floor and develop 
tlieir limbs and muscles. A 
child should not be lifted by 
its arms, nor dragged along 
by one hand after it learns 
to take a few feeble steps, 
but when they do learn to 
walk steadily it is the best 
of all exercise, especially in 
the open air. 

Let the children as they 
grow older romp and play 
in the open air all they wish, 
^ girls as well as boys. Give 

the girls 'an even chance for health, while they are young at . 
least, and don't mind about their complexion. 




220 





A delicate child should never be put Into the bath, but bathed on the 
up and kept warmly covered. 

HOW TO Keep a baby well. 

1. The mother's [milk is the natural food, and nothing can 
fully take its place. 

2. The infant's stomach does not readily accommodate Itself 
to changes in diet ; therefore, regularity in quality, quantity 
and temperature is extremely necessary. 

3. Not until a child is a year old should it be allowed any 
food except that of milk, and possibly a little cracker or bread, 
thoroughly soaked and softened. 

4. Meat should never be given to very young children. The 
best artificial food is cream, reduced and sweetened with sugar 
and milk. No rule can be given for its reduction. Observa- 
tion and experience must teach that, because eve'.y child's 
stomach is governed by a rule of its own. 

5. A child can be safely weaned at one year of age, and 
sometimes less. It depends entirely upon the season, and 
upon the health of the child. 

6. A child should never be weaned during the warm weath- 
er, in June, July or August. 

7. When a child is weaned it may be given, In connectTott 



222 



How to Keep a Baby Well. 



with the milk diet, some such nourishment as broth, gruel, 
egg, or some prepared food. 

8. A child should never be allowed to come to the 
table until two years of age. 

9. A child should never eat much starchy food until four 
years old. 

10. A child should have all the water it desires to drink, 
but it is decidedly the best to boil the water first, and allow 
it to cool. All the impurities and disease germs are 
thereby destroyed. This one thing alone will add greatly 
to the health and vigor of the child. 

11. Where there is a tendency to bowel disorder, a little 
gum arable, rice, or barley may be boiled with the drink- 
ing water. 

12. If the child uses a bottle it should be kept absolutely 
clean. It is best to have two or three bottles, so that one 
will always be perfectly clean and fresh. 

13. The nipple should be of black or pure rubber, and 
not of the white or vulcanized rubber. It should fit over 
the top of the bottle, no tubes should ever be used. It is 
impossible to keep them clean. 

14. When the rubber becomes coated, a little coarse salt 
will clean it. 

15. Babies should be fed at regular times. They should 
also be put to sleep at regular hours. Regularity is one 
of the best safeguards to health. 

16. Milk for babies and children should be from healthy 
cows. Milk from difTerent cows varies. Some authori- 
ties insist that it is better for a child to have milk from 
the same cow, while others prefer mixed milk from a herd, 
as less liable to changes. 

17. Many of the prepared foods advertised for children 
are of little benefit. A few may be good, but what is good 
for one child may not be for another. So it must be sim- 
ply a matter of experiment if any of the advertised foods 
are used. 

18. It is a physiological fact that an infant is always 
healthier and better to sleep alone. It gets better air and 
is not liable to suffocation. 

19. A healthy child should never be fed oftener than 
once in two hours, gradually lengthening the time as it 
grows older; at 4 months ZV2 or 4 hours. At S months a 
healthy child will be better if given nothing in the night. 

20. Give an infant a little water several times a day. 

21. For colds, coughs, croup, etc., use goose oil exter- 
nally and give a teaspoonful at bed-time. 



Developing Healthy Children. 



223 




Master Fred, the Young King of tlie Household. 



Developing Healthy Children. 

Growing Children.— Growing children of both sexes 
need plenty of good brown bread, puddings of oat and In- 
dian meal, potatoes in various digestible forms — not fried — 
and milk and light nourishing soups. Nor must these 



224 



Developing Healthy Children. 



articles take the place of good roast meat. A child's sense 
of hunger is a sharp reality and he soon becomes faint with 
it. Children grow more between twelve and seventeen than 
they do in all the years of life that follow. It is in this time 
that bone and muscle, nerve and energy are to be manufac- 
tured and stored up against middle life, the time when they 
will begin to need them. 

Appetite. — Do I not know how absolutely insatiable a 
boy's appetite can be ? He will devour a hearty dinner of 
roast beef, mutton or veal, vegetables and pudding at twelve 
o'clock, and be far gone in the pangs of starvation before 
five. 

Sleep. — But it is not only in regard to food that parents 
are negligent. Sleep, which gives clearness to the eye and 
buoyancy to the step, and makes walking in the open air a 
joy and ever-increasing delight — Sleep is ruined or spoiled 
in a dozen different ways. Children's parties and evening 
entertainments are the means used to rob many children of 
their growth and vitality. While children are in school they 
have no business with "social life." School work and the 
necessary daily exercise in the fresh air and sunshine are 
as much as should be permitted. Between these and their 
growth they are sufficiently taxed. All children should go 
to bed early, comfortable, easy in mind, in a well-ventilated 
room, and should be allowea to sleep until they waken of 
their ovy^n accord. If they sleep at all they will not fail to 
waken just as soon as it is good for them. And if they don't 
sleep? Then they are on the sure road to a fit of indiges- 
tion or brain disease. 

Going to School. — Many children enter the schoolroom 
at nine o'clock day after day looking wan and heavy-eyed. 
I shudder at the ill-health they are storing up for the future. 
It is sad and strange to see how easily mothers, often good 
mothers too, in other respects, shut their eyes to the begin- 
ning of this evil in those dearer to them than their own life 
— their children. 

Cause of Premature Decay. — The children now stand- 
ing on the threshold of manhood and womanhood sink into 
premature decay and fall by the wayside at an age when 
strength and ability should enable them to withstand pro- 
longed effort in the schoolroom — and all for want of proper 
systematic attention to health. Parents must put a stop to 
the causes which excite ill-health, and not rush to the doc- 
tor to cure their children. All the medicine in the world 
cannot counteract the effect of fooiish, persistent neglect 
and continued indulgence. 



JScuie Fesdinr; 



Bottle Feeding. 

C. The First Requisite.— The first requisite for carrying 

out bottle feeding with thoroughness is that somebody 
should take charge of the child who has a special interest 
in it. Some person ought to be in special charge over the 
bottle, nipple and rubber tube. If a rubber tube is used, 
it should be kept thoroughly clean and never allowed to re- 
main empty. Keep it submerged in water, and then care* 
fully clean and cleanse it before using. The health of the 
child depends upon absolute cleanliness of the bottle and 
its attachments. 

2. One Bottle of Tainted Millc May be Fatal to an In* 
fant, and though a mother, or nurse, may day after day 
watch with the most zealous care the preparation of the 
baby's food, the souring of the milk, if .mixture with con- 
taminated water, the change of pastu'-e of the cow may 
bring on an attack of diarrhoea or vomitmg which may be- 
come uncontrollable. 

3. Fresh Milk.— The fresher the milk, the more readily 
it will be digested; indeed, the warm milk just from the 
cow, is far more digestible than that which has been kept 
with every precaution for a few hours. There must be some 
change which milk undergoes, as it is noted by all observers 
that the milk when warm from the cow is but slightly acid, 
or neutral, but after it has stood for a while it always shows 
a very decided acid change. Mother's milk is always 
alkaline. 

4. Selection and Preservation of Milk.— Great care 
should be taken in the selection of milk and in its preserva- 
tion, even after it has reached the house, until used. If there 
is the slightest suspicion that the milk is not fresh, or that 
it has been subjected to much jolting, it should be boiled at 
once, and then put in a refrigerator to be warmed for each 
bottle. The boiling will destroy its ferments, and in that 
way diminish the chances for intestinal disturbances. — See 
sterilized milk in another portion of this book. 

5. Single Cow.— The question of obtaining milk from a 
single cow is one that has been frequently insisted upon, and 
if one is satisfied that such milk is obtained and is found to 
have agreed with the child, it may have many advantages; 
buc the ordinary mixed milk from a dairy of common cattle 
will be less liable to daily changes; it will maintain, as it 
were, an average of quality and condition. Not only should 
milk be pure and sweet, but it should be free from all mat- 
ters that carrv with them disease. 

15 =^ 



226 



Bottle Feeding. 



6. A Pure Gum Nipple.— Dr. W. Thornton Parker, of 
Newport, Rhode Island, recommends a pure gum nipple, 
with two holes as far apart as possible, as the best for the 
nursing bottle, and also says regarding the matter as fol- 
lows; "When there is only one hole, the infant in nursing 
compresses the nipple and sends the milk in a stream in 
such a manner as often to nearly strangle itself. Milk com- 
ing through one hole is not as comfortable as when it comes 
through two, and the effort of nursing becomes disagreeable 
and wearisome to the little feeder. The best way to nurse 
an iniant is by holding it in the arms, and give it the bottle 
in the same position and height as if it were really nursed by 
its mother. When it has finished nursing, the bottle should 
be removed, emptied and cleansed. Never should the bot- 
tle be left in the mf ant's care to use at will." 

7. A Mixture Resembling- Mother's Milk. — The milk 
from an ordinary dairy should be obtained as fresh as pos- 
sible, mix together half a pint of this milk and half a pint of 
pure water, and to this should be added about two hundred 
grains or two heaping teaspoonfuls of milk sugar, with four 
grains of soda; it should then be brought to a boil, after 
which two tablespoonfuls of cream should be stirred in, and 
it is ready for use, to be given by bottle or drinking cup, at 
about the body temperature. 

THE PERILS OF TEETHING. 

The period of dentition is not without peril to the infant 
and often brings great anxiety to the fond mother. As 
the various organs are in a state of growth and develop- 
ment the infant is peculiarly susceptible of disease. The 
irritation caused by the process of teething makes the child 
fretful and peevish upon the slightest provocation. The 
dangers of this period are largely averted by keeping up 
a looseness of the bowels, thus protecting the nerve cen- 
ters and the various important organs of the body from 
harm. Washing the mouth frequently with cold water 
repels many an attack of serious illness, caused by the 
general irritation of the dentition period. Never attempt 
to hasten matters by cutting the gums. 



Hoiv to Make Children Healthy and Vigorous, 227 




Kow to Make Children Healthy, Vigorous, and Beautiful. 

1. The physical conditions and developments of the child 
should be as carefully watched as its health, for the beauty, 
strength and health of a child depends largely upon the care 
and instruction of the parents. 

2. Hereditary tendencies to disease must be carefully con- 
sidered. If there is heart disease, consumption, or other con- 
stitutional diseases in the family, the children should be taught 
early to take regular and vigorous exercise every day, and as 
much of it out doors as the weather and circumstances will 
permit. There is nothing that overcomes hereditary disease in 
children so successfully as vigorous exercise aud well ventila- 
ted sleeping rooms. 

3. Give the children nourishing food, and until six years of 
age they should live mostly upon a milk diet. 

4. From the earliest infancy, children must have an ample 
supply of pure air. Keep the bed-room well ventilated. 



228 How to Make Children Healthy and Vigorous. 

5. Never let children younger than fifteen years of age 
wear stays of any kind. During childhood the bones yield 
easily to pressure, and very many injuries and deformities 
have their beginning by bad methods of dress, and all forms 
of artificial bandages, corsets, garters, waist-strings, or an 
excess of weight hanging from the hips, should be avoided. 
All garments made for children should hang from the 
shoulders. 

6. Children who play out-of-doors in cool and damp weather 
should wear good heavy shoes with thick soles. 

7. It is an excellent practice for families to secure a good 
text-book on gymnastic or calisthenic exercise, and whe» 
children are five years of age to begin and give them aregulai 
systematic training every day. This will develop their mus« 
cular .strength, give grace to their figures and gestures, develop 
their lungs, and strengthen the constitution in general. Both 
girls and boys should be trained by taking regular physical 
exercise daily, or taught to perform some daily task, which 
will answer the same purpose. 

8. Indulge children in all kinds of out-door games, croquet^ 
lawn tennis, etc., and your children will enjoy happiness and 
health. 

9. Be sure to give children plenty of sleep. They shouM 
retire early and not be disturbed in the morning, but be per- 
mitted to enjoy their full desire of sleep. 

10. Children should never drink coffee, tea, cocoa, or choco* 
late, for it will make the skin thick and yellow and often pro- 
duce other serious disorders. Milk and water should be the 
only drink of children. 

11. Little girls playing out-of-doors should have their faces 
protected, as they are liable to become freckled, and freckles 
are sometimes very difiBcult to remove. They should wear 
good large sun-bonnets or broad-brimmed hats. 

12. Don't be afraid it your children scream anj shout ia 
their play, and think them boisterous. Let them develop 
their lungs. 



Diseases of Infatiis and Children. 



229 



HOME TREATMENT FOR THE DISEASES OF IN- 
FANTS AND CHILDREN. 

Medicine. — The young mother who is far from a physi- 
cian may remember for her comfort that a child very sel- 
dom really requires medicine. What it needs is what she 
can give without danger — proper food, pure air, cleanli- 
ness and rest. 

Infants.— Most of the disorders of children, particularly 

of infants, arise from some derangement of the digestive 
tract. The food is not of proper quantity or quality. It 
is not assimilated; that is, taken up by the blood for the 
nourishment of the tissues, and the child sufTers. It is 
pale and fretful, throws up its food in undigested masses, 
and does not thrive as a healthy child should. The first 
thing to be done is to change the food. Add a table- 
spoonful of lime-water to each six of food; if this does not 
succeed, try using one-fourth cream instead of all milk 
with water. Vary the strength of the food by adding 
more or less water. If still unsuccessful, try some of the 
artificial foods until one is found agreeing with the baby. 

Older Children.— With older children an error of diet 
is very apt to be followed by feverishness and restlessness. 
High temperature does not mean as much with children 
as with grown persons. A child may have a temperature 
of one hundred and three or one hundred and four de- 
grees at night and yet be comparatively well in the morn- 
ing. A simple enema of soap and water given with a 
syringe such as should be in every household, is the safest 
way of prodiTcing a movement if there is constipation. 

Syrup of Rhubarb.— A child two years old may have 
half a teaspoonful of spiced syrup of rhubarb or a tea- 
spoonful of liquid citrate of magnesia, if there is reason 
to think that indigestible food is the cause of the attack. 
When this acts there will be an immediate improvement. 

Early Deaths.— Out of the 984,000 persons that died 
during the year of 1890, 227,264 did not reach one year of 
age, and 400,647 died under five years of age. 

Responsibility.— What a fearful responsibility, therefore, 
rests upon the parents who permit these hundreds of thou- 
sands of children to die annually. This terrible mortality 
among children is undoubtedly largely the result of igno- 
rance as regarding the proper care and treatment of sick 
children. 

Homeopathic Remedies.— For very small children it is 
always best to use homeopathic remedies. 



•230 



An Ailing Child. 



AN AILING CHILD. 

Fresh Air. — An ailing child should be kept in a pure 

atmosphere and have fresh air to breathe. This does not 
mean that the windows must be thrown wide open and the 
little body chilled with draughts. The temperature of a 
nursery should never fall below sixty-five degrees, and in 
illness be kept at from sixty-eight to seventy degrees. Fresh 
air must be admitted and enough artificial heat supplied 
to keep the temperature uniform. Of course, in extreme- 
ly cold weather the window must be closed and the room 
aired when the child is asleep. At this time it can be cov- 
ered from head to foot with a blanket, the face protected 
and the window opened for a few minutes. The extra 
covering must be left on until the thermometer again reg- 
isters sixty-eight degrees. In ordinarily mild weather the 
window can be lowered from the top about two inches 
and a strip of flannel tacked over the opening to prevent 
a draught. If the window does not open at the top a 
piece of board two inches wide and exactly fitting the win- 
dow frame can be put under the lower sash. The child 
should be kept away from the window. 

Warm Bath. — A warm bath is always grateful to a sick 
child. The water should fully cover the person and feel 
pleasantly warm to the hand. As the little patient is lifted 
out wrap it in a warm blanket and dry it under that with 
a warm towel. Put on a flannel night-dress, or jacket, 
over the cotton night-gown. If the attack is the begin- 
ning of an eruptive disease, the bath will help to bring 
the eruption to the surface. An ailing child should not be 
allowed to sleep in the room with other children. 

First Symptoms.— If parents would watch for the first 
symptoms of illness in their children and take things in 
time, they might often save themselves from great anxiety, 
and doctor's bill, and their little ones from pain and suf- 
fering. Nearly every ailment proceeds at first from a cold. 
Sometimes a child droops and seems heavy and languid 
for days, gomg to school unwillingly and dropping asleep 
over lessons. At such times, instead of chiding and spur- 
ring the weary one on to exertion, it would be far better 
to give the child a vacation a few days. 

Honor at Expense of Vi^or.— Never mind whether your 
little boy or girl stands first on the roll of honor or not. 
See to it that no honors or rewards are gained at the ex- 
pense of vigor and health. Never slight the beginnings 
of a cold. From six to ten drops of turpentine will gen- 



LITTI-E_7yiISCHIEF5, 



232 



Nervous Children, 



erally arrest a cold at the beginning; we have used it for 
the past twenty-five years and always with good results. 
The part of wisdom is to look out well for beginnings. 

NERVOUS CHILDREN. 

The importance of protecting the nervous system in in- 
fancy from rude shocks should be kept in mind. 

As a rule, the more quiet a baby is kept during the first 
year of its life, the better chances it has for a life of health 
and happiness. The fact that so large a proportion of the 
human family die in infancy is due largely to the folly of 
nurses and the ignorance of mothers. Overbright babies 
do not commend themselves to physicians, who know 
that the first year of a child's life should be spent largely 
in sleep. All effort to arouse the dormant mind of the 
child at this period is attended with danger. The foolish 
practice of tossing a helpless baby in the air, while it 
screams both with affright and delight, is a most danger- 
ous one. A physician with a large practice tells the story 
of a precociously bright child which showed evident de- 
light when tossed in this way by a doting grandfather, 
who was accustomed to play with it in this way every 
evening. The child trembled with delight when the 
night's frolic was over, but one evening from this trem- 
bling it passed into a spasm, the first indication of one of 
those fatal brain diseases against which medical science is 
helpless. Nothing could be done but to wait until the 
little life had flown to a happier land. 

NAUSEOUS REMEDIES. 

It is said that the most nauseous physic may be given 
to children without trouble by previously letting them 
take a pepperment lozenge, a piece of alum or a bit of 
orange peel. Many people make the mistake of giving 
a sweet afterwards to take away the disagreeable taste. 
It is far better to destroy it in the first instance. 

HICCOUGH. 

Sips of warm water, kneading the abdomen, percussing 
the spine, fixing the attention intensely, often relieve hic- 
cough. 

Five or six drops of nitrate of amyl, on handkerchief, 
pressed close to the patient's nose, will prove very bene- 
ficial to one suffering with hiccoughs. 



Diseases of Infants and Children, 



233 



LARD AND SALT. 

Scarlet Fever. — An eminent physician says that if he 
were confined to one single remedy in cases of scarlet fever, 
he should choose lard. Rub the little sufferer with it thor- 
oughly and often. It allays the fever and softens the parched 
skin. The amount thus absorbed is simply astonishing. 

luflammatiun of the Bowels. — Of course the safe way is 
to send for the doctor without delay. But in the coun- 
try, one is often obliged to wait a long time. Anxiety 
makes the time seem long anywhere, and simple remedies 
are often very efficient helps. So, while you are waiting, 
make a paste of lard and salt, fold a wide pillow-case (as 
that is always at hand) into a large square, spread on the 
paste and lay the cloth smoothly, paste side down, over 
the bowels, stomach, sides, and as far toward the back 
as you can. When the inflammation is severe, the lard 
will be absorbed in a very short time. Be prepared to 
change the paste as often as needed. Never mind wast- 
ing the salt. There is no particular rule, only be sure to stir 
in enough. All that is not needed will remain on the cloth. 

One always has this remedy in the house. So it can 
be made ready in a moment, and the quicker the better is 
the order in such cases. I have used it where the patient 
was in a perfect agony of sufYering, and the doctor far 
away. The result was always more than satisfactory, 
there being a very perceptible decrease of pain in a won- 
derfully short time. Of course the doctor smiled know- 
ingly when I told him, but then I was quite willing he 
should smile, for the patient was comfortably sleeping 
when he arrived. 

In another case all other remedies failed, and it was 
said that the patient must die — but she didn't. 

Croup. — Cover the throat and chest with the lard and salt 
paste, adding to it a sprinkling of mustard. 

Pneumonia has yielded to the same treatment as that 
used for croup. In either case no time should be wasted. 
Act quickly. 

Pleurisy. — Apply ffannel cloths wrung out of hot mus- 
tard water and change often, or a mustard paste. 

Carbuncles.— Tomato poultice, thickened with powdered 
crackers. Never known to fail. 

Coug'hs. — A bottle of camphorated oil and some ab- 
sorbent cotton should be kept in the medicine chest of 
every household. No remedy will more quickly afford 
relief than absorbent cotton soaked in the oil and l?iid on 

the chest of the sufferer. 
16 



234 



Diseases of Infants and Children. 



COLIC. 

1. Babies often suffer severely with colic. It is not con- 
sidered dangerous, but causes considerable suffering. 

2. Severe colic is usually the result of derangement of 
the liver in the mother, or of her insufficient or improper 
nourishment, and it occurs more frequently when the child 
is from two to five months old. 

3. Let the mother eat chiefly barley, wheat and bread, rolled 
Wheat, graham bread, fish, milk, eggs and fniit. The lattei 
may be freely eaten, avoiding that which is very sour. 

4. A rubber bag or bottle filled with hot water put into a 
crib will keep the child, once quieted, asleep for hours. If a 
child is suffering from colic, it should be thoroughly warmed 
and kept warm. 

5 Avoid giving opiates of any kind, such as cordials, Mrs. 
Winslow's Soothing Syrup, " Mothers Friend," and various 
other patent medicines. They injlire the stomach and health 
of the child, instead of benefiting it. 

6. Remedies.— A few tablespooufuls of hot water will often 
allay a severe attack of the colic. Catnip tea is also a good 
remedy. 

A drop of essence of peppermint in 6 or 7 teaspoonfuls of hot 
water will give relief. 

If the stools are green and the child is veiy restless, give 
chamomilla. 

If the child is suffering from constipation, and undigested 
curds of milk appear in its fjeces, and the child starts suddenly 
in its sleep, give nux vomica. 

An injection of a few spoonfuls of hot water into the rectum 
with a little asafoetida, is an effective remedy, and willbesooct 
for an adult. 

STOMACH AND BOWEL TROUBLE. 

A tablespoonful at bedtime of equal parts of castor oil 
and aromatic syrup of rhubarb is one of the best remedies 
for children with stomach and bowel trouble now in use. 

Prescription: — 2 oz. castor oil. 

2 oz. aromatic syrup of rhubarb. 



SUseases of Infants and Children. 



235 




POW TO TIRGAT GIROUP. 

SPASMODIC AND TRUE. 

SPASMODIC CROUP. 
Detikition.— A spasmodic closure of the glottis which ln« 
terferes with respiration. Comes on suddenly and usually at 
night, without much warning. It is a purely nervous dis' 
ease and may be caused by reflex nervous irritation from 
undigested food in the stomach or bowels, irritation of the 
gums in dentition, or from brain disorders. 

Symptoms. — Child awakens suddenly at night with suspend- 
ed respiration or very dilBcult breathing. After a few respira- 
tions it cries out and then falls asleep quietly, or the attack 
may last an hour or so, when the face will become pale, 
veins in the neck become turgid and feet and hands con- 
tract spasmodically. In mild cases the attacks will only oc- 
CUB once during the night, but may recur on the following 
night. 

Home Treatment.— During the paroxysm dashing cold 
water in the face is a common remedy. To terminate the 
spasm and prevent its return give teaspoonful doses of pow 



236 



Diseases of Infmits and Children. 



dered alum. The syrup of squills is an old and tried rem- 
edy; give in 15 to 30 drop doses and repeat every 10 minutes 
till vomiting occurs. Seek out the cause if possible and re- 
move it. It commonly lies in some derangement of the 
digestive organs. 

TRUE CROUP. 

Definition.— This disease consists of an indammation ol 
the mucous membrane of the upper air passages, particularly 
of the larynx with the formation of a false membrane that ob- 
structs the breathing. The disease is most common in childreir 
between the ages of two and seven years, but it may occur at 
any age. 

Symptoms.— Usually there are symptoms of a cold for three 
or four days previous to the attack. Marked hoarseness is 
observed in the evening with a ringing metallic cougU and 
some difficulty in breathing, which increases and becomes 
somewhat paroxysmal till the face which was at first flushed 
becomes pallid and asliy in hue. The efforts at breathing be- 
come very great, and unless the child gets speedy relief it wi I 
die of suffocation. 

Home Treatment.— Patient should be kept in a moist warm 
atmosphere, and cold water applied to the neck parly in tl fl 
attack. As soon as the breathing seems difficult give a half lu 
one teaspoonfiil of powdered alum in honey to produce vomit- 
ing and apply the remedies suggested in the treatment, cI 
diphtheria, as the two diseases are thought by many to be 
Identical. When the breathing becomes labored and face be. 
comes pallid, the condition is very serious and a pbysiciaxi 
should be called without delay. 

Powdered Alum. — Powdered alum and sugar is an excel- 
lent remedy for croup, or for colds when the throat seems 
to be filled up. But sometimes the attack of croup comes 
on and there is no powdered alum in the house. 

Kerosene. — In such cases, take a spoonful of sugar, put a 
few drops of kerosene on it and give that. Repeat the dose 
until a teaspoonful of kerosene has been taken internally. 
Also rub the throat and chest with a little kerosene, then 
cover it with cotton batting. When there is a troublesome, 
dry cough, salt taken dry on the tongue, in small quantities, 
will relieve the majority of cases, 



Diseases of Infants atid Children. 



237 



WORMS. 



Pin Worms. 

Pin worms and round worms are the most common 
in children. They are generally found in the lower 
bowels. 

Symptoms. — Restlessness, itching about the anus in the 
fore part of the evening, and worms in the faces. 

Treatment. — Give with a syringe an injection of a 
tablespoonful of linseed oil. Cleanliness is also very nec- 
sary. 

Round Worms. 

A round worm is from six to sixteen inches in length, 
resembling the common earth worm. It inhabits gener- 
ally the small intestines, but it sometimes enters the 
stomach and is thrown up by vomiting. 

Symptoms. — Distress, indigestion, swelling of the ab- 
domen, grinaing of the teeth, restlessness, and sometimes 
convulsions. 

Treatment. — One teaspoonful of powdered wormseed 
mixed with a sufficient quantity of molasses, or spread on 
bread and butter. 

Or, one grain of santonine every four hours for two 
or three days, followed by a brisk cathartic. Wormwood 
tea is also highly recommended. 

Swaim's Vermifuge. 
2 ounces wormseed. 
V/i ounces valerian. 
xYz ounces rhubarb. 
iJ/2 ounces pink-root. 
lYi ounces white agaric. 
Boil in sufficient water to yield 3 quarts of decoction, 
and add to it 30 drops of oil of tansy and 45 drops of 
oil of cloves, dissolved in a quart of rectified spirits. 
Dose, I teaspoonful at night. 

Anotlier Excellent Vermifuge. 
Oil of wormseed, i ounce. 
Oil of anise, i ounce. 
Castor Oil, i ounce, 
Tinct. of myrrh, 2 drops. 
Oil of turpentine, 10 drops. 
Mix thoroughly. 
Always shake well before using. 

Give ID to 15 drops in cold coffee once or twice a day. 



238 



Diseases of Infants and Children. 



CONSTIPATION. 

1. This is a very frequent ailment of infants. The 
thing necessary is for the mother to regulate her diet. 

2. If the child is nursed regularly artd held out at the 
same time of each day, it will seldom be troubled with this 
complaint. Give plenty of water. Regularity of habit is 
the best remedy. If this method fails, use a soap sup- 
pository. Make it by paring a piece of white castile soap 
round. It should be made about the size of a lead pencil, 
pointed at the end. 

3. Avoid giving a baby drugs. Let the physician ad- 
minister them if necessary. 

4. An unsuitable diet quickly causes irregularity of the 
bowels in children. 

5. Cream and butter are to be recommended on porridge 
and cornmeal. Oatmeal gruels should be used by older 
children, who should also be encouraged to drink as 
much water as they crave. For children three years and 
older, stewed prunes, orange juice, honey and bread, 
olive oil and olives, peaches, fresh vegetables and baked 
apples and ginger bread should form part of bill of fare, 
and there will be no need of castor oil, rhubarb, etc., 
often an injury to the child. 

CHEERFULNESS AND HEALTH. 

It is known that intense anger, or great grief or fright, 
may so poison the milk of a nursing mother that her 
child is killed by taking that m.ilk into its stomach. 

Professor Elmer Gates, recently lecturing before the 
Smithsonian Institution at Washington, has isolated this 
poison, and is able to exhibit it in crystals. He has 
also shown that hateful and unpleasant feelings cause the 
formation of poisons in the body which are physically 
injurious to it; that benevolent and happy sensations 
lead to the creation of beneficial chemical products in 
the blood and tissues. 

All of these can be detected by chemical analysis in 
the urine and the perspiration. 

DIPHTHERIA AND SCARLET FEVER. 

_A prominent physician claims that there will be no 
diphtheria, scarlet fever nor worms for children if they 
eat plentifully of onions every day, especially when there 
is a scarcity of fresh fruit. He buys the onions by the 
barrel for his young folks, and they are served in every 
imaginable form. 



Diseases of Infatits and Children. 239 
SCARLET FEVER. 
DEriNiTiON. — An eruptive contagious disease, brought 
about by direct exposure to tliose having the disease, or by 
contact with clothing, dishes, or other articles, used about the 
sick room. 

The clothing may be disinfected by heating to a temperature 
of 230° Fahrenheit or by dipping in boiling water before wash* 
ing. 

Dogs and cats will also carry the disease and should be kept 
from the house, and particularly from the sick room. 

Symptoms.— Chilly sensations or a decided chill, fever, bead* 
ache, furred tongue, vomiting, sore throat, rapid pulse, hot dry 
skill and more or less stupor. In from 6 to 18 hours a fine red 
rash appears about the ears, neck and shoulders, which rap- 
idly spreads to the entire surface of the body. After a few 
days, a scurf or branny scales will begin to form on the skin. 
These scales are the principal source of contagion. 

Home Treatment. 

1. Isolate the patient from other members of the family to 
prevent the spread of the disease. 

2. Keep the patient in bed and give a fluid diet of milk gruel, 
beef tea, etc., with plenty of cold water to drink. 

3. Control the fever by sponging the body with tepid water, 
and relieve the pain in the throat by cold compresses, applied 
externally. 

4. As soon as the skin shows a tendency to become scaly, 
apply goose grease or clean lard with a little boracic acidpow* 
der dusted in it, or better, perhaps, carbolized vaseline to re« 
lieve the itching and prevent the scales from being scattered 
about, and subjecting others to the contagion. 

Regular Treatment.— A few drops of aconite every three 
hours to regulate the pulse, and if the skin be pale and circu* 
lation feeble, with tardy eruption, administer one to ten drops 
of tincture of belladonna, according to the age of the .patient. 
At tlie end of third week, if eyes look puffy and feet swell, 
there Is danger of Acute Bright's disease, and a physiclau 
should be consulted. If the case does not progress well under 
the home remedies suggested, a physician should be called at 
once. 



240 Diseases of Infants and Children. 

HOME TREA TMENT OF DIPHTHERIA, 

Definition.— Acute, specific, constitutional disease with 
local manifestations in tlie tlnoat, moutli, nose, larynx, wind- 
pipe, and glands of the neck. The disease is infectious, but not 
very contagious under the proper precautions. It is a disease 
of childhood, though adults sometimes contract it. Many af 
tlie best physicians of the day consider True or Membranous 
Croup to be due to this diphtheritic membranous disease thus 
located in the larynx or trachea. 

Symptoms.— Symptoms vary according to the severity of thp 
attack. Chills, fever, headache, languor, loss of appetite, 
stiffness of neck, with tenderness about the angles of the jaw, 
soreness of the throat, pain in the ear, aching of the limbs, loss 
of strength, coated tongue, swelling of tlie neck, and offensive 
breath ; lymphatic glands on side of neck enlarged and tender. 
The throat is first to be seen red and swollen, then covered 
with grayish white patches, which spread, and a false meni' 
brane is found on the mucous membrane. If the nose Is at- 
tacked, there will be an offensive discharge and the child will 
breathe through the mouth. If the larynx or throat are in- 
volved, the voice will become hoarse, and a croupy cough with 
iflifficult breathing shows that the air passage to the lungs is 
being obstruoted by the false membrane. 

Home Treatment.— Isolate the patient to prevent the 
spread of the disease. Diet should be of the most nutritious 
character, as milk, eggs, broths, and oysters. Give at inter- 
vals of every two or three hours. If patient refuses to swallow 
from the pain caused by the effort, a nutrition injection must 
lie resorted to. Inhalations of steam and hot water, and allow- 
ing the patient to suck pellets of ice, will give relief. Sponges 
dipped in hot water and applied to the angles of the jaw are 
beneficial. Inhalations of lime, made by slaking freshly burnt 
lime in a vessel and directing the vapor to the child's mouth 
by means of a newspaper or similar contrivance. Flower of 
sulphur blown into the back of the mouth and throat by 
means of a goose quill has been highly recommended. Fre- 
quent gargling of the throat and motith with a solution of 
lactic acid, strong enough to taste sour, will help to keep the 
parts clean and correct the foul breath. If there is great pros- 
tration, with the nasal passage affected, or hoarseness and 
difficult breatiimg, a physician should be called at onca 



Diseases of Jnfanis and Children. 



241 



MEASLES. 

Definition* — It is an eruptive, contagious disease, pre- 
ceded by cough and other catarrhal symptoms for about 
four or five days. The eruption comes rapidly in small 
red spots, which are slightly raised. 

Symptoms. — A feeling of weakness, loss of appetite, 
some fever, cold in the head, frequent sneezing, watery 
eyes, dry cough and a hot skin. The disease takes eft'ect 
nine or ten days after exposure. 

Home Treatment. — Measles is not a dangerous disease 
in the child, but in an adult it is often very serious. In 
childhood very little medicine is necessary, but exposure 
must be carefully avoided and the patient kept in bed in 
a moderately warm room. The diet should be light and 
nourishing. Keep the room dark. If the eruption does 
not come out promptly, apply hot baths. 

Common Treatment.— Two teaspoonfuls of spirits of 
nitre, one teaspoonful paregoric, one wineglassful of 
camphor water. Mix thoroughly, and give a teaspoonful 
in half a teacupful of water every two hours. To relieve 
the cough, if troublesome, flaxseed tea or infusion of slip- 
pery-elm bark with a little lemon juice to render more 
palatable will be of benefit, 

CHICKEN POX. 

Definition. — This is a contagious, eruptive disease, which 
resembles to some extent small pox. The pointed vesicles 
or pirnples have a depression in the center in chicken 
pox, and in small pox they do not. 

Symptoms. — Nine to seventeen days elapse after the 
exposure, before symptoms appear. Slight fever, a sense 
of sickness, the appearance of scattered pimples, some 
itching and heat. The pimples rapidly change into little 
blisters filled with a watery fluid. After five or six 
days they disappear. 

Home Treatment — Milk diet and avoid all kinds of 
meat. Keep the bowels open and avoid all exposure to 
cold. Large vesicles on the face should be punctured early 
and irritation by rubbing should be avoided. 



242 



Diseases of Infants and Children, 



WHOOPING COUGH. 

Definition. — This is a contagious disease which is 
known by a peculiar whooping sound in the cough. Con- 
siderable mucus is thrown off after each attack of spas- 
modic coughing. 

Symptoms. — It usually commences with the symptoms 
of a common cold in the head, some chilliness, feverish- 
ness, restlessness, headache, a feeling of tightness across 
the chest, violent paroxysms of coughing, sometimes al- 
most threatening suflfocation, and accompanied with vom- 
iting. 

Home Treatment. — Patient should eat plain food and 
avoid cold drafts and damp air, but keep in the open air 
as much as possible. A strong tea made of the tops of red 
clover is highly recommended. A strong tea made of 
chestnut leaves, sweetened with sugar, is also very good. 

I teaspoonful of powdered alum. 
I teaspoonful of syrup. 

Mix in a tumbler of water, and give the child one tea- ' 
spoonful every two or three hours. A kerosene lamp kept 
burning in the bed-chamber at night is said to lessen the 
cough and shorten the course of the disease. 

As a rule, the younger the child the more severely will 
the attack be felt, so that very young children especially 
should be guarded against infection. 

One of the worst features of the disease is the violent 
straining efforts during the paroxysms of coughing, which 
dispose to hemorrhage and to rupture. 

Those whose experience with the disease has been larg- 
est are the readiest to acknowledge that medicines by 
themselves are of little value. It is all the more impor- 
tant, therefore, that the patient should have good nursing, 
and all that good nursing implies. 

Every day in which the weather permits the child 
should be taken out-of-doors, and in any event he should 
have a constant supply of fresh air. 

Woolen undergarments should be worn day and night, 
while daily bathing should be carefully practiced. Coun- 
ter-irritation of a mild character over the region of the 
stomach is of great value, and the diet should be of the 
simplest and most nourishing kind. 

Vapors and inhalants rarely do good, but frequently 
the patient irnproves after their discontinuance. 



Diseases of In/ants and Children. 



248 



MUMPS. 

Definition. — This is a contagious disease causing the 
inflammation of the salivary glands, and is generally a 
disease of childhood and youth. 

Symptoms.— A slight fever, stiffness of the neck and 
lower jaw, swelling and soreness of the gland. It usually 
develops in four or five days and then begins to disappear. 

Home Treatment.— Apply to the swelling a hot poul- 
tice of cornmeal and bread and milk. A hop poultice 
is also excellent. Take a good dose of physic and rest 
carefully. A warm general bath, or mustard foot-bath, 
is very good. Avoid exposure or cold drafts. If a bad 
cold is taken, serious results may follow. 

BED WETTING— ITS CAUSE AND CUKE. 

1. Bad Habits. — Very frequently this affection is the 
consequence of bad habits; being favored by the free use 
of fluids during the after part of the day, by exposure to 
cold in the night, and by lying on the back. 

2. Punishment. — Never punish a child for bed-wetting; 
it is cruel and unnatural. Bed-wetting occurs usually to- 
ward morning. The child has no control over it and 
should never be punished. Repeated punishment blights 
its sense of honor and it soon becomes cowardly and de- 
ceitful, and loses all personal spirit. 

3. Cause.— Bed-wetting may be caused by the presence 
of worms in the bowels, and sometimes stone in the blad- 
der may occasion the trouble, or weakness of the urinary 
organs. 

4. Treatment.— Awak« the child at midnight, or very 
soon after, and have the bladder thoroughly emptied. Do 
not allow the child to eat or drink anything several hours 
before bedtime. Do not allow it to sleep on its back. 
This can be done by tying a towel around the child with 
a knot over the spinal column, so that when it turns it 
will be awakened by the pressure. Give the child a cold 
sponge bath every morning. If these precautions are of 
no avail, the family physician should be called. 



244 



Diseases cf Infants and Children. 



DIARRHEA. 

Great care should be exercised by parents in checking 
the diarrhea of children. Many times serious diseases are 
brought on by parents being too hasty in checking this 
disorder of the bowels. It is an infant's first method of 
removing obstructions and overcoming derangements 
of the system. 

SUMMER COMPLAINT. 

1. Summer complaint is an irritation and inflammation 
of the lining membranes of the intestines. This may 
often be caused by teething, eating indigestible food, etc. 

2. If the discharges are only frequent and yellow and 
not accompanied with pain, there is no cause for anxiety; 
but if the discharges are green, soon becoming gray, 
brown and sometimes frothy, having a mixture of phlegm, 
and sometimes containing food undigested, a physician 
had better be summoned. 

3. In the first stages give a tablespoonful at bedtime of 
the following prescription: 

2 oz. castor oil. 

2 oz. aromatic syrup of rhubarb. 

1. This is one of the best of domestic remedies, and 
should always be kept on hand. Whenever the stomach 
of children is out of order, a dose of this simple remedy 
often works magic. 

2. Keep the child perfectly quiet and the room well 
aired. 

3. Put a drop of tincture of camphor on a teaspoonful 
of sugar, mix thoroughly; then add six teaspoonfuls of hot 
water and give a teaspoOnful of the mixture every ten 
rr»nutes. This is indicated where the discharges are 
watery, and where there is vomiting and coldness of the 
feet and hands. Chamomilla is also an excellent remedy. 

4. Drink freely of boiled milk, and in bad cases drink no 
water except that which has been boiled and cooled. 

FOR TEETHING. 

If a child is suffering with swollen gums, is feverish, 
restless, and starts in sleep, give nux vomica. 



BOOK II. 




FIGURE, FORM AND BEAUTY. 
CARE OF HANDS, HAIR AND FEET. 
RULES ON ETIQUETTE. 
HOW TO WRITE INVITATIONS. 
HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



245 



Preserving the Figure. 



247 



PRESERVIIsG THE FIGURE. 

These lines are for the lady who is looking for help in 
the preservation of her figure, which has always been her 
special pride, until a recent accumulation of surplus "fat" 
threatens to make it more than becomingly plump. 

Remedy.— The remedy for this state of things is within 
the reach of every one who has time and resolution to 
spend ten or fifteen minutes every day in certain exer- 
cises, which will be given in detail, and which require 
absolutely nothing else but time and persistence. 

Time. — The best time for taking these exercises is in 
the morning, immediately after leaving one's bed, and be- 
fore any garments that compress the figure in any way 
are put on._ The air in the room should be pure and 
sweet, so tKat the lungs may be benefited, no less than 
the abdominal muscles, and the blood be purified. 

First. — Draw in the abdomen as far as possible; fill 
the lungs with air, and then raise the arms above the 
head till the hands meet, without moving or bending the 
knees; bend the body as far back as possible, and then, 
allowing the air to escape from the lungs gradually, 
bend the body as far forward as possible, until the hands 
approach the floor. Repeat this ten times, following ex- 
actly the directions for breathing. 

Second. — Place the hands upon the hips, akimbo, draw 
air into the lungs as before, and bend forward, first to 
the right as far as possible, allowing the air to escape 
from the lungs, and then, after filling the lungs again, to 
the left. Repeat this exercise ten times. 

Third. — Place the hands lightly on the breast, draw in 
the abdomen, fill the lungs, and turn the head and body, 
without moving the knees or feet, as far, first to the right, 
and, after filling the lungs again, to the left, as possible. 
Repeat this ten times. 

Fourth. — With the arms at the side, draw in the abdo- 
men, fill the lungs with air, and raise the arms to their 
height above the head, keeping the lungs fully expanded; 
then, breathing out, allow the arms to fall slowly to the 
side again. Repeat this ten times. 

These exercises strengthen all the muscles of the ab- 
domen, and cause in them a gradual contraction, which, as it 
increases, restores symmetry of form, restores the center 
of gravity to its proper position, and gives the exerciser 
a command of herself in movement that is very delightful, 



248 A Gymnasium Director's Advice. 



A GYMNASIUM DIRECTOR'S ADTICE. 

A gymnasium director of long experience disapproves 
of shoulder-braces. 

Instead of artificial shoulder-braces, the director recom- 
mends the frequent and persistent use of exercises spe- 
cially adapted to promote an erect carriage. 

It is not enough, he says, to work an hour or so daily 
in a gymnasium. The proper exercises should be taken 
many times a day, and therefore should be of a sort that 
can be practiced anywhere and without special apparatus. 
Some of the habits and exercises on which he lays stress 
are as follows: 

1. Make it a rule to keep the back of the neck close to 
the back of the collar, 

2. Roll the shoulders backward and downward. 

3. Try to squeeze the shoulder-blades together many 
times a day. 

4. Stand erect at short intervals during the day — "head 
up, chin in, chest out, shoulders back." 

5. Walk or stand with the hands clasped behind the 
head and the elbows wide apart. 

6. Walk about, or even run up-stairs, with from ten to 
forty pounds on the top of the head. 

7. Try to look at the top of your high-cut vest or your 
necktie. 

8. Practice the arm movements of breast-stroke swim- 
ming while standing or walking. 

9. Hold the arms behind the back. 

10. Carry a cane or umbrella behind the small of the 
back or behind the neck. 

11. Put the hands on the hips, with elbows back and fin- 
gers forward. 

12. Walk with the thumbs in the armholes of the vest. 

13. When walking, swing the arms and shoulders 
strongly backward. 

14. Stand now and then during the day with all the pos- 
terior parts of the body, so far as possible, touching a ver- 
tical wall. 

15. Look upward as you walk on the sunny side of the 
street. 

The foregoing exercises, it will be seen, are happily 
varied, and are, many of them, such as can be practiced 
by anybody in almost any occupation. If he cannot use 
one, he can another. 

Even in a gymnasium a man must be on his guard 
against forms of exercise that tend to induce a stooping 
posture. 



A Very Simple Cure for Round Shoulders. 249 




UNNATtTEAIi POSITION. NATTTRAL POSITION. 



A YERY SIMPLE CURE FOR ROUND SHOULDERS. 

Round shoulders are almost unavoidably accompanied 
by weak lungs, but may be cured by the simple and easily 
performed exercise of raising one's self upon the toes, 
leisurely, in a perpendicular position, several times daily. 

Take a perfectly upright position, with the heels together 
and the toes at an angle of forty-five degrees. Drop the 
arms lifeless at the sides, animating and raising the chest 
to its full capacity muscularly, the chin well drawn in. 
Slowly rise up on the balls of the feet to the greatest pos- 
sible height, thereby exercising all the muscles of the 
legs and body; come again into a standing position with- 
out swaying the body backward out of the perfect line. 
Repeat the exercise first on one foot and then on the 
other. 



250 



Beauty. 



BEAUTY. 

To be beautiful in the real sense means something more 
than to have facial perfections. The real beauty should 
start from within and make itself felt with every move- 
ment and expression of the body. 

Desirable. — Beauty of face and person is desirable, 
praiseworthy, and attainable by all of us. Nay, it is our 
imperative duty to be as beautiful, as exquisite, as divinely 
attractive in soul, body, and mind as we possibly can be- 
come. Beauty is a very large word, and covers a broad 
field not generally understood by the masses of people. 

May be Permanent. — It is the desire to excel in all 
that is good, great, and noble. It is the striving after 
the highest ideal in life. True beauty is permanent, while 
the merely physical attractions fade with our years, becom- 
ing withered and seamed by the flight of time. 

Premature Age.— Have you ever noticed the premature 
age that comes with fretful, dissatisfied natures; that ac- 
companies a disappointed ambition; that feels they have 
not been appreciated by the world? And consequently 
they are cynical, hard, and repellent. 

Your Standard. — Let me say to such as these, do not 
despair, do not feel discouraged, do not let others set a 
standard for your life, but establish your own ideals of 
strength, goodness, and beauty, and then work upward 
to them. 

Your Inner Self. — Recognize yourself, your inner self. 

Make that as near perfection as you can, and the outward 
will soon grow to correspond with the inner nature, un- 
til youth and beauty will become self-renewing and blos- 
som like the bellflower — as you grow physically down 
life's plane, you will ascend mentally, morally, and spir- 
itually. 

Good Advice. — Somebody asked an old lady, whose 
face is still sweet and rosy at 80, how to be beautiful. Her 
advice was: "Try a little spiritual exercise. Look at 
yourself in the mirror four or five times a day. If the 
corners of your mouth are down and you are an unhappy 
looking creature, elevate your expression. Think of the 
pleasantest thing that ever happened to you; the kindest 
thing that was ever done for you; send out the most gen- 
erous, sweetest, most helpful thoughts to your friends, 
then you will be beautiful." 

More than Sliin Dee]).— Beauty is only skin deep, says 
the old saw, but the source of beauty lies deeper than tne 



Beauty. 



Superficies of the body. No one ever has or ever can in- 
vent unguents, balms, or pigments that shall produce 
lasting loveliness. Over the footlights, a glowmg color, 
darkened eyebrows, paint here and powder there, may 
for the time give an illusion of beauty. But the wear and 
tear of ten years, or even two, must strip off the mask and 
show the woman as she is. 

Physical Beauty.— Physical beauty will come to those 
who have a beautiful soul, or, as Schiller put it in his 
"Essays": "Physical beauty is the sign of an interior 
beauty, which is the basis, the principle, and the unity 
of the beautiful." 

Health and Beanty. — We must be healthy to be beau- 
tiful. The tendency to outdoor life is one of the chief 
agents in cultivating good health and beauty. 

An Uplifting Power.— With the broadening of the chest, 
the expansion of the lungs, a glowing cuticle, a good cir- 
culation, an active organism, in short, with a superb 
physical development governed by a harmonious soul, 
woman becomes a beautiful, uplifting power in the world 
that, more than anything else, needs to realize her spiritual 
energy. 

Keeping Fresh. — It is impossible to continue to be beau- 
tiful without keeping fresh in mind and body. In this 
most interesting age, interesting socially, politically, 
scientifically, ethically, and religiously, there is so much 
to challenge thought, to keep one abreast of the times, so 
much to awaken sympathy and demand the fullest exercise 
of the reasoning faculties, that the days are not half long 
enough for one who realizes these facts. 

Mistress of Circumstances.— There is no need to lose 
youthful vigor, vim, and good looks, if a woman so orders 
her life as to be mistress of circumstances, if she studies 
the laws of hygiene and applies them to the ruling of 
her household. Let her wisely simplify her habits and 
apportion her time among her various duties so as to 
have hours for repose, for recreation, for reading, and 
for social intercourse. 

Seeming Beanty.— Beauty of body and face, which is 
much to be desired, constitutes a letter of introduction to 
the people one meets, but does nothing beyond that. A 
woman who seems to be beautiful may become absolutely 
ugly by showing herself to be ill-tempered, vain or mali- 
cious. 

Bad Passion. — Wrinkles upon the face are very often 
the result of bad passions. The mouth draws down at the 



252 



Beauty. 



corner from malice; the eyes grow small by the lids 
coming together when one is possessed of a cunning 
curiosity; the chin doubles itself from gluttony, and the 
cheeks incline to fold over when one allows one's self to 
grow cross and to speak with shrill, high notes. 

Loud Speaking'. — The strain that results from speaking 
loudly causes the muscles of the throat to over-develop 
and make it look stringy and unfeminine. 

Temper. — So, first of all, she who would be charming 
must remember that the woman who allows her temper 
to control her will not retain one single physical charm. 
It is said that gluttony and anger will deform a face. 

Greatest Charm. — The greatest charm and the something 
which we feel and yet cannot explain, is what is best 
described as beauty of expression. This delights the 
eye, but it cannot exist where there are low, sordid feel- 
ings, and where encouragement is not given to everything 
that is high and noble, pure and womanly. After one has 
cultivated these virtues and made them one's own, then it 
is necessary to study the physical side of life. 

Laws of Life. — Fortunately you are starting cut in 
life with no inherited disease, and with everything in your 
favor, therefore what remains for you to do is to learn 
the laws of life, and to live up to them. The treatment 
you give your body shows, and so you must take special 
care of the casket holding that jewel, your soul. 

TO ACQUIRE A BEAUTIFUL FORM. 

Dr. Jacques says, " Take abundant exercise in the open 
air — free, attractive, joyous exercise, such as young girls, 
when not restrained by false and artificial proprieties, are 
wont to take. If you are in the country, or can get 
there, ramble over the hills and through the woodlands; 
botanize; geologize; seek rare flowers and plants; hunt 
bird nests, and chase butterflies. Be a romp, even though 
you may be no longer a little girl. If you are a wife 
and a mother, so much the better. Romp with your 
children. Attend also to your bodily position in stand- 
ing, sitting, lying and walking, and employ such general 
or special gymnastics as your case may require. Live, 
while indoors, in well-ventilated rooms; take sufficient 
wholesome and nourishing food, at regular hours; keep 
the mind active and cheerful — in short, obey all the laws 
of health." 



Pe%u*y. 



253 



Take a lesson from the English girl, as described in 
the following extract: 

"The English girl spends more than one-half of her 
waking hours in physical amusements; that is, in amuse- 
ments which tend to develop and invigorate and ripen 
the bodily powers. She rides, walks, drives, rows upon 
the water, runs, plays, swings, jumps the rope, throws the 
ball, hurls the quoit, draws the bow, keeps up the shuttle- 
cock, and all lliis without having it forever impressed 
upon her mind that she is thereby wasting her time. 
She does this every day, until it becomes a habit, which 
she will follow up through life. Her frame, as a neces- 
sary consequence, is larger, her muscular system better 
developed, her nervous system in subordination to the 
physical; her strength more enduring, and the whole 
tone of her mind healthier. She may not know as much 
at the age of seventeen as does the American girl; as a 
general thing she does not, but the growth of her intellect 
has been stimulated by no hot-house culture, and though 
maturity comes later, it will last proportionately longer." 

Beauty Evanescent. — Beauty is generally spoken of as 
a fleeting show, an evanescent gleam of celestial radiance, 
and this is too frequent and true, especially in this 
country, but all this is contrary to nature's intentions. 
It is said of the Italian women that instead of present- 
ing a wrinkled and withered appearance, as they grow 
old, they seem to grow in beauty. In no country in the 
world are there so many middle-aged beautiful women 
as in Italy. This is not impossible for our American 
women. The Italians keep their beauty because they 
keep their health. In this lies the great secret. American 
women lose their beauty because they lose their health. If 
due regard is had to preservation of health, preserved love- 
liness will not be wanting in our day. 

Highest Ambition. — Beauty or strength, casketed in a 
rounded, complete, and admirable physique, free from 
excess or deficiency of proportions, stands among the 
highest ambitions of the woman or man. A perfect form 
— it is the universal vanity; and "How well you are look- 
ing!" is everywhere among the most pleasing of compli- 
ments. "We all want to be physically perfect, because 
we desire that our presence should awaken attention, 
deference, perhaps admiration, and because, born in- 
evitably to love, we would be capable of awakening love 
in others. The admiration we bestow on a perfect form, 



254 



Beauty, 



when by chance we meet with one, is a feeling that all 
know at some time in life. It is a feeling akin to worship 
— one in which the head has no part or prerogative. We 
reverence instinctively the largeness of grace, and the 
perfection of motion, life, and capability of which we 
perceive that our nature is susceptible." 

COSMETICS AND CHEERFULNESS. 

Cosmetics are generally good for nothing but the 
drug business. One merry thought, one kind word, and 
the smallest contribution to another's happiness, will do 
more for the complexion than a tableful of cold cream, 
violet powder, and other skin whiteners. A sweet thought 
will make the face brighten, and the eyes sparkle, every 
time it is harbored. It was Alice Cary who sang this 
old truth so gracefully thirty years ago: Don't mind 
the cosmetics, little woman; just be as cheerful as you 
can. Make the best of things. Avoid disagreeable 
people. Don't read or listen to the horrible. Try to 
forget the unpleasant things in life. Be cheerful, be 
gentle, and so be lovely. 

Cosmetics. — Young lady, do not deceive yourself. You 
cannot use cosmetics without the knowledge of your gen- 
tlemen friends. They will respect you the more if you 
forever abandon the use of such subterfuges. 

Vegetables Better than Cosmetics.— Ladies all who wish 
clear complexions, instead of using cosmetics, eat vege- 
tables and fruit, as long as they are in season; and never 
throw away cucumber water or the juice of any fruit, 
but rub your face with it whenever you have it. 

Eat fruit, girls — good, ripe fruit, however — if you 
would have and keep a clear and beautiful skin. 

Practice smiles, also, not frowns. There is a won- 
drous charm in a smile. Like charity, it hides a multi- 
tude of sins. 

PHYSICAL CULTURE. 

^ We may learn much, in spite of our boasted modern 
civilization, of the old pagan Greeks. They, evidently, were 
not, like some of the moderns, "ashamed of their bodies;" 
l5ut rather gloried in them as tenements worthy of the 
indwelling soul. All the young men of the nation were 
trained in manly exercises and high honors were be- 
stowed upon those who excelled in them. The most 
modern of all the moderns, the Americans, adopt a 



Beauty. 



255 



different system. As did the ancient Greeks, we offer prizes 
or rewards, and bestow honors upon those who excel, 
but these prizes generally stimulate the already too active 
mental powers and promote brain-stuffing at the expense 
of a harmonious development of the whole being. 

Standing. — Our " standing " among our fellow-men is 
quite as important a matter in a physical point of view 
as in a social or moral sense. An erect carriage is es- 
sential, not only to beauty and health, but to grace of 
movement. Standing may seem to be a little thing, and 
not worthy of much attention, but when there are so few 
who stand erect and so many who have wandered so 
far from nature in this respect, well may we attempt to 
regain the old paths. The mothers of ancient Greece 
exhorted their daughters to be virtuous, but they also 
urged them to hold themselves upright, and put back their 
shoulders. Not one out of a hundred may pay any at- 
tention to the position in standing, but to acquire erect- 
ness of body and to promote health attention must be 
paid to this duty. 

Sitting.— A bad position in sitting is quite as common 
as in standing. Here also there must be an earnest 
effort made, or one falls in a bad habit and the result is 
frequently round shoulders and diseases of the lungs. 

Walking. — An erect posture in walking requires the use 
of nearly all the muscles. As a health promoting exercise, 
walking cannot be undervalued if it is properly engaged in. 
To make your walks in the highest degree profitable to 
body and soul, cultivate a love of the beautiful as 
manifested in nature. Those who would add the beauty 
of graceful movement to the attractions of face and form 
must be careful to correct any inelegance of gait to which 
they may be addicted. American women are too stiff in 
their walk. Mr. G. W. Courtise says: "An American 
woman only bends her knees, and hardly that. Her gait 
gives a movement to her body like the squirming motion 
of a wounded insect with a naturalist's pin through its 
midriff. American women hold their arms badly in 
walking, they generally bring them forward, crossing 
their hands in front; they have, in consequence, the look 
of a trussed fowl, and have about as much freedom 
of motion. If our women were to let their arms fall 
freely by the side, they would move more gracefully, walk 
better and look better. The prevailing mode of carrying 
the arms contracts all proper development of the bust. 



256 



Beauty. 



ruins health, and, what our ladies will be more likely to 
attend to, destroys beauty of form and grace of move- 
ment." 

Expanding the Chest. — Many people die for want of 

breath, when it is their own carelessness alone that pre- 
vents them from breathing. Our vitality is in proportion 
to our respiration, if we only half breathe we only half 
live. Expanding the chest and increasing our breathing 
capacity is therefore of the utmost importance. Some 
noted writer asserts that the development of the chest 
is an absolute standard of the length of life. It certainly 
is clear that by expanding it life may often be prolonged 
and health and beauty promoted. 

TAKE LIFE AS IT COMES. 

Fretting, — There is one sin which is everywhere and 
by everybody underestimated and quite too much over- 
looked in valuations of character. It is the sin of fretting. 
It is as common as air, as speech; so common that unless 
it arises above its usual monotone, we do not even observe 
it. Watch an ordinary coming together of people and 
we see how many minutes it will be before somebody 
frets — that is, makes more or less complaining statements 
of something or other, which most probably every one in 
the room or the car, or on the street comer, knew before, 
and which most probably nobody can help. Why say 
anything about it? 

Bringing on Old Age.— It is cold, it is hot; it is wet, 
it is dry; somebody has broken an appointment, ill- 
cooked a meal; stupidity or bad faith somewhere has re- 
sulted in discomfort. There are plenty of things to fret 
about. It is simply astonishing how much annoyance 
and discomfort may be found in the course of every day's 
living, even at the simplest, if only one keeps a sharp eye 
on that side of things. Even to the sparks flying upward 
in the blackest smoke, there is a blue sky above and the 
less time they waste on the road the sooner they will 
reach it. Fretting is all time wasted on the road. Not 
only does fretting worry us and those around us, but re- 
member that nothing brings the wrinkles and makes one 
old more quickly. 

PRACTICAL HINTS ON COMPLEXION. 

A well-known writer says, "A woman's gospel is to be 
lovely in mind and body." 
We all know that loveliness of mind is reflected in the 



Beauty. 



257 



expression of the face and eyes, but as it cannot afifect 
the texture or color of the skin I will give you a few 
receipts for developing and enhancing the beauty of one, 
while you alone can cultivate the loveliness of the other. 

Bathing. — Fineness of the skin, daintiness of the body 
and rosiness of the complexion depend almost entirely 
upon bathmg, as a means both of obtaining and retaining 
them. A cold bath is a good tonic and nerve bracer, but 
it neither cleanses nor beautifies the skin to any extent. 
Nor should delicate girls or women think of indulging 
in it, unless so advised by their physician. The tem- 
perature of a beautifying bath should be from 70 to 75 
degrees, and it should be of daily occurrence. 

Almond Meal Bagg.— Ordinary water, that is, water 
neither particularly hard nor soft, is not considered suffi- 
ciently cleansing to the skin, and a French firm has late- 
ly introduced dainty bags containing almond meal, oat- 
meal and orris root to be placed in the water a few 
moments before the bath is ready. This renders the water 
very milky and has a wonderfully softening and whitening 
effect. 

Milk, Bran, Starch.— Baths in which milk, bran or 

starch has been placed are found to refine or whiten the 
coarsest, reddest skin if persistently used. Softness and 
firmness of skin may be obtained by the use of a simple 
unguent made famous by the Greek and Roman women, 
who centuries ago set us the example of perfect personal 
cleanliness as the road to beauty. The following can be 
made with very little trouble, and it is delightfully ex- 
hilarating after the bath: 

Best white vinegar, one pint; rosemary, rue, camphor 
and lavend^.r (of each), two drachms. Let the herbs soak 
in the vinegar for several hours, then strain. Rub thor- 
oughly all over the body and a deliciously comfortable 
feeling and a dainty perfume will remain with one all day 
long. 

SKIN TROUBLES. 

There are many little skin troubles which are both per- 
sistent and troublesome, and vex one's very soul by ap- 
pearing on the face. A greasy skin may arise from 
various causes, but generally from lack of cleanliness or 
debility of the skin. Only an astringent has any effect 
upon it, and a very simple, entirely harmless one may bs 

made from one pint of rosewater, half a pint of white win 

J- 



258 



Beauty. 



vinegar and a few drops of essence of rose. This lotion 
may be applied with a piece of soft linen or a very fine 
sponge. 

Blackheads are very difficult to get rid of, and are caused 
by the clogging of the pores of the skin, by dust or 
foreign matter. Alcohol, ninety per cent., applied by 
means of a piece of chamois skin, will give tone to the 
skin and remove unsuspected dirt and dust, at the same 
time stimulating the small glands and removing, by con- 
stant use, the blackheads. 

Tan and Freckles may be removed by the use of the fol- 
lowing lotion. Two drachms of powdered sal ammoniac, 
four fluid drachms of eau de Cologne, one quart of dis- 
tilled water. Lemon juice and borax are both very effica- 
cious, and are home remedies. 

Lait Tirginal. — Many skins will not stand constant wash- 
ing, but need to be cleaned after a dusty ride or walk by 
other means than soap and water. Lait Virginal is a 
delicious preparation and can be made as follows: One 
pint of rose, orange flower or elder flower water, half 
an ounce of simple tincture of benzoin and ten drops of 
tincture of myrrh. 

Cream. — After being exposed to harsh or chilling winds 
it is a good plan, upon retiring, to rub a quantity of fresh 
cream on the face, removing after five or ten minutes, to 
be applied again, followed by a generous puffing of rice 
powder. Remove in the morning by tepid water and Lait 
Virginal. 

Cosmetics. — The use of cosmetics, face powders and 
rouges cannot be too strongly condemned. They stamp 
the person using them as silly and vulgar in the eyes of all 
refined and cultured people, and do not in even the slight- 
est degree enhance or beautify. A good complexion needs 
no artificial toning or heightening, nature being the 
cleverest of all artists. A poor skin is kept clogged and 
its condition impoverished by the application of cosmetics 
— often, indeed, it is poisoned by the harmful ingredients 
contained in them. 

Arsenic. — Arsenic and white lead are two of the drugs 
most used in their preparation and two of the rankest 
poisons which can be introduced into the system. 

Free to All. — With good medical advice, plenty of sleep, 
fresh air, carefnl diet and scrupulous cleanliness, all women 
may hope to have complexions fair and sweet to look 
upon. 



How to Obtain atid Prcscr-'e a Beautiful Complexion. 259 




" Why tinge the cheek of youth? the snowy neck, 

Why load with jewels? why anoint the hair? 
Oh, lady, scorn these arts; but richly deck 

Thy soul with virtues : thus for love prepare! 
Lo, with what vermil tints the apple blooms. 

Say, does the rose the painter's hand require? 
Away, then, with cosmetics and perfumes. 

The charms of nature most excite desire." 



Pow to Otitaiq and Preserve a Beautiful Coniplexioii. 

1. The great secret in acquiring a bright, beautiful sliin, is 
temperance, exercise and cleanliness. 

2. High living and late hours will destroy the most beauti- 
ful complexion. 

3. Those who desire to be beautiful should never drink 
strong coffee, nor eat warm bread -and butter, fat meat, etc. 



260 Hoiv to Obtain and Preserve a Beautiful Complexion. 

4. Moderate diet and frequent bathing will insure a healthy 
and a beautiful face. 

5. If you desire your skin to be perfectly clean and white, 
bathe it in warm water and bran, adding a few drops of bay 
rum. 

6. To keep the skin and face perfectly soft, take the whites 
of four eggs boiled in rose water, one-half ounce of alum, and 
one-half ounce of sweet almonds ; beat the whole together till 
it assumes the consistency of paste. Spread this on a cloth and 
wear it on the face during the night. 

7. Another good preparation to produce a soft and beautiful 
skin is, to take a small piece of the gum of benzoin and boil it 
in spirits of wine till it becomes a rich tincture. Fifteen drops 
of this, poured into a glass of water, will produce a mixture 
which will look like milk, and it also has an agreeable perfume. 
This will give the face a rich flesh color. 

8. A lady who possesses a beautiful face should preserve it 
by wearing a veil or other covering on going into the open air 
or sunlight. 

9. Do not use strong cosmetics, paints or pastes for adorning 
the face They will ruin the best and most beautiful complex- 
ion in the world, 

10. To powder and paint the cheek of beauty, is a ridiculous 
and culpable practice. There are many good remedies to 
produce a good healthy and natural complexion ; that is all 
that is necessary. There is no such beauty as a rosy cheek 
which nature paints. 

A Cure for Sunburn. 
This may occur in grade from a slight reddening of the face 
to an inflammation attended with blistering. Use soothing 
applications and avoid the sun until well. 

How to Develop the Chest and Bust. 

The best treatment is gentle rubbing. Great care must be 
exercised that no chafing or bruising is produced. This gentle 
friction night and morning, five minutes at a time, will gen- 
erally produce the desired results. A little linseed oil and rose 
water may be applied with good effect. Take at the same 
time, three times a day, small doses of cod-liver oil. 



How to Obtain and Preserifc a Beautiful ComptexionSSil 

How to Remove Freckles. 
They are always developed on the parts of the body most ex- 
posed to the sun, and on some persons disappear in winter. 
They seldom appear on children before the |age of five, and 
usually disappear in old age. 

Remedy: 4 ounces of rose water, 
40 grains of borax, 
X ounce of dilute acetic acid, 
6 grains of corrosive sublimate. 
Apply with a soft brush or rag every morning and evening, 
and continue until the freckles disappear. 

Caution, Avoid the sun as much as possible during the treat- 
ment. Avoid all blistering compounds. 

Anotlier Remedy for Freckles. 

Sulpho-carbonate of zinc, I ounce. 

Glycerine, 12 ounces, 

Rose water, 12 ounces. 

Alcohol, 3 ounces, 

Spirit of neroli, drachm. 
Mix them. To be applied twice a day, leaving on from half 
an hour to one hour ; then wash off and protect the face with 
a veil on exposure to strong light. 

How to Cure Blackheads. 
Blackheads are not worms as many suppose. They consist 
of the hardening of the oil in the glands of the skin, and the 
dust collecting and adhering to the surface gives them a black 
appearance. 

Remedy. Press them out with a hollow key or with the 
thumb and fingers, and apply a mixture of sulphur and cream 
every evening. Wash every moniuisi with tlie best toilet soap, 
or wash the face with hot water with a soft flannel at bedtime 

How to Remove Tan. 

Lemon juice, Yz ounce. 

New milk, % pint, 

Brandy, K ounce. 
Mix, and boll and skim off theskum. Apply every night and 
morning. Or, take a lemon, cut it in two, and rub it over the 
face. Wash it off and apply magnesitt moistened m water and 
let it dry on the face. When dry, wash it off. Repeat this 
three or four times successively. 



L..-Ho'ity to Obtain and Preserve a Beautiful Complexion. 

TO REMOVE PIMPLES. 
Many pimples are removed by simply washing the face sev^ 
3ral times a day with warm water. 

Sulphur water, I oz. White wine vinegar, 202. 

Liquor ot potassa, % oz. Distilled water, 2 oz. 
Acetated liquor of ammonia, )i oz. 
Apply twice a day. 

To Remove Black Specks or "Fleshworms/' 
Wash, and rub thoroughly with a towel and then apply 
the following twice a day: 

White brandy, 4 oz. Cologne, 2 oz. 

Liquor of potassa, i oz. 

To Remove Yellow Spots, 
flubbing the face with common sulphur, will often cure the 
worst forms. If not, apply tlie following safe remedy : 
Strong sulphur water, I oz. 
Lemon juice, % oz. 
Cinnamon water, i drachm. 

To Remove and Prevent Wrinkles. 
Put some powder of best myrrh upon an iron plate, suflB 
ciently heated to melt the gum gently, and when it liquifies, 
cover your head with a napkin, and hold your face over the 
myrrh at a proper distance to receive the fumes without incon- 
venience. 

flovJ to Ppodciee BeaCitifdl GyebPOvCs ar)(J Lasl)es. 

The Circassian type of beauty Is considered the finest. A 
preparation to promote the growth of the brows and lashes is 
made of the following ingredients : 

Olive oil, Yi ounce. 

Oil of nutmeg, 12 drops. 

Oil of rosemary, 12 drops. 

Tincture of cantharides, 3 drachms. 

Pearl Water for the Complexion, 

1 lb. Castile soap, 
I gal water 

Dissolve, then add alcohol, one quart ; oil of rosemary and 
oil of lavender, each 2 drachms. Mix well. 



Toilet Hmts, 



Mi 




TOILET HINTS. 

Brushing the hair briskly each night. 
Warm borax water, for dandruff. 
Onion rubbed on the scalp for the hair. 
For the hair a tea made oi garden box, strained and 
added to one and one-half ounces of lavender water. 
'A morning hand-bath in cold, salt water. 
Pumice stone, for stained hands. 

For the complexion, the milk of fresh, grated cocoa- 
nut. 

For sunburn, the white of one egg and the juice of one 
lemon heated together. 

After peeling onions, rubbing the hands with a stick of 
celery. 

For an oily skin, a little camphor in the wash-water. 

To cool the face, bathe it with hot water. 

Sunlig'ht is a capital sanitary aerent, promotes health 
and cheerfulness. Therefore light should be admitted in 
large quantities into sick rooms, except in extraordinary 
cases. The light, however, should be softened and sub- 
dued, not glaring. 

In Washing' the Face soap should seldom be used, the 
bran bag sufificing for all purposes of cleanliness. There 
is nothing better than simple corn meal, not too finely 
ground; it cleanses the pores of the skin thoroughly and 



264 



Toilet Hints. 



leaves it soft and satiny. Corn meal or bran bags are 
easily made, and are much less expensive than the bought 
ones; some bran or corn meal, shaved Castile soap 
and a little orris root are the necessary ingredients, they 
should be sewed up in a cheese-cloth bag' and rubbed on 
the face and hands each time they are washed. 

Hard Water is one of the most terrible iocs to beauty 
of complexion; but even the hardest water, if boiled twice, 
or even once, loses much of its hard, coarse nature and is 
less harmful to the skin. With some the skin is constantly 
peeling from over-dryness, and this should not be per- 
mitted, as wrinkles form when the tissues dry up, and 
when of this particular type are almost incurable. 

Emollients. — There are so many emollients for the skin, 
all good, and many which act harmlessly on the pores, 
that innumerable recipes might be given. Glycerine jelly 
is admirable for that rough type of skin which cracks on 
the least chill or exposure, but is preferable for tne hands 
and wrists. This is rubbed in after washing, and after 
a few minutes, lightly bathe off with clear water. 

An Excellent Preparation.— The following is an excel- 
lent jelly of this type: French gelatine, one-fourth ounce; 
glycerine, three ounces; dissolve the gelatine in six ounces 
of distilled water and add powdered borax, one-half 
drachm; rectified spirits wine, one ounce; attar of rose to 
perfume, about five drops. This is very easily made, and 
should be put into small, open-mouthed jars or pots suffi- 
ciently shallow for the fingers to reach the bottom. 

Druggists' Method. — Druggists prepare glycerine jelly 
in the following manner; but, although efficacious, it is 
not as soothing as the first-named and quite as trouble- 
some to prepare, as the oil must be worked in very slowly 
— in fact, almost drop by drop: Good soft soap, one-half 
drachm; purified honey, two drachms; pale olive oil, five 
ounces; perfume as desired. 

Cold Cream. — An admirable cold cream, which keeps 
for some months and may be made firm enough to travel 
well, consists of: White wax, one ounce; almond oil, one 
ounce; rosewater, one ounce; glycerine, two drachms,. 

Almond Meal. — Almond meal, or almond wash powder, 
as it is sometimes termed, is made in various ways; but the 
following is an admirable formula: Almond powder (from 
the blanched almonds ground down fine, after the oil is 
expressed), eight ounces; the finest almond meal, eight 
ounces; powdered benzoin, three drachms; orris powder, 
one ounce; perfume with almond or attar of rose. 



How to Take Care of the Teeth. 



266 




HOW TO TAKE CARE OF THE TEETH. 

1. Teeth should be thoroughly cleansed every morning 
with a tooth-brush. 

2. A wooden or quill tooth-pick should be used after 
every meal. 

3. Professor Miller, an eminent authority on dental 
science, announces that the decay of teeth is contagious 
or transferable to others, and that the disease consists of 
bacilli. 

4. When teeth are decayed the dentist should be con- 
sulted at once. Powdered charcoal is one of the best 
and most excellent applications for the teeth. It should 
be powdered very fine and applied to the teeth with a 
soft rag. 

5. The teeth should never be used for the purpose of 
cracking nuts, cutting thread, etc. 

A GOOD TOOTH POWDER. 

Take of Prepared chalk, 7 drachms. 

Powdered orris-root, i drachm. 
Use every other morning. 

u 



266 



How to Take Care of the Teeth. 



CLEANING THE TEETH. 

hen J— It is best to clean the teeth after each meal 
and just before going to bed. Those who acquire this 
habit when they are young will not regret it in old age. 
Mothers should personally see that their children clean 
their teeth thoroughly and regularly. Children do not 
realize the importance of such practice and are liable to 
shirk duty and slight the operation. 

How? — There are very tew people who know how to 
clean teeth properly and easily. Just look at them as 
they swing the brush from side to side at right angles 
with their perpendicular plane. The proper way to brush 
and clean the teeth is to brush from the gums downward, 
for the upper teeth, and from the gums upward, for the 
inferior or lower teeth. By this method the bristles go be- 
tween the teeth, touching their approximating surfaces, 
as well as cleaning the front and sides of the teeth. 

It is not less important to brush downward on the pala- 
tine-roof surface of the upper teeth, and upward on the 
lingual-tongue side of the lower teeth, that is to say, 
brush the inside of the teeth more carefully, if anything, 
than the outside. Do not brush and clean the teeth for 
the sole purpose of making them look bright, clean and 
pretty, but to keep foreign substances from producing 
caries, or, plainer still, eating holes into the teeth and ex- 
posing a highly sensitive tissue, the pulp or nerve. Clean 
the grinding surfaces of the teeth with the same interested 
care. 

Women in general are supposed to be g^reat^y interested 
in the preservation of their teeth, and it may be somewhat 
painful to them for me to inform them that they do not gen- 
erally possess as strong and dense teeth as do the male sex. 
That is the rule, the exceptions are rare. Hence the im- 
portance of cleanliness on their part is more important. 

Mothers. — Then, again, mothers will do well to remem- 
ber that the bones and teeth of their children are not as 
firm and compact as are these tissues in adults. There has 
not been deposited amidst the soft-solids of these textures 
as much of the carbonate and phosphate of lime as we will 
find as they grow older. Hence the value of preventing 
acid formations. 

Economy. — If economy is wealth, this is one plain road 
to that condition. Nay, more, while one saves dental 
bills he saves, what is infinitely of more vafue, his teeth. 
It is not contended that there is no necessity to consult the 



How to Take Care of the Teeth. 



267 



family dentist. This should be done much more fre- 
quently than it is. A small cavity arrested in decay is 
much better than to have a large decayed spot to fill, or 
the ultimate loss of the tooth. But the highest art in 
dentistry is to prevent the formation of cavities, and not 
to fill them. 

Toothpicks. — Do not use pins, needles, metallic tooth- 
picks or any hard substance, or anything as unyielding as a 
piece of hard wood, like a sliver of beech, oak or walnut, 
but a thin goose quill, soft basswood picks, or broomcorn. 
Endeavor to cause the toothpick to rub against the side of 
each tooth so that anything adhering to the perpendicular 
walls of the teeth may be removed. Floss or any soft silk 
thread may also be used to great advantage. 

Injurious Substances.— Any acid, like vinegar, will dis- 
solve the lime of the teeth and destroy their solidity. All 
acid formations should be avoided. One who likes apples 
can indulge in such fruit, but he should thoroughly cleanse 
his teeth after eating. Vegetable and animal food remain- 
ing between the teeth will, after awhile, become an acid 
of more or less strength which may prove very injurious 
to the teeth. 

Curious Facts about Teeth.- Damp weather booms the 
dentist business. 

The first false teeth were made on lead plates. 

People of the United States have the worst teeth of any 
nation. 

Baltimore is known as the cradle of dentistry and has 
eight colleges. 

Hippocrates, 450 B. C, was the first dentist of whom 
there is a record. 

Gold-filled teeth are found in the jaws of skeletons ex- 
humed at Pompeii. 

A child is said to inherit the teeth of its father and the 
jaws of its mother. 

Facial neuralgia is sometimes due to a dead tooth, and 
may be cured by a dentist. 



268 



How to Take Care of the Teeth, 




HOW TO KEEP THE FRONT TEETH PERFECTLY 
WHITE. 

Wipe them off with a clean linen handkerchief, and then 
wind a corner of the handkerchief around the finger and 
rub the teeth hard and thoroughly twice a day. The re- 
sults will be excellent. 

AN EXCELLENT TOOTH POWDER. 

Suds of castile soap and spirits of camphor, of each an 
equal quantity, thicken with equal quantities of pulverized 
chalk and charcoal to a thick paste. Apply with the finger 
or brush. 

HOW TO CURE A BAD BREATH. 

Bad breath from catarrh, foul stomach, or bad teeth, 
may be temporarily relieved by diluting a little bromo 
chloralum with 8. or lo drops of water and using it as a 
gargle, and swallowing a few drops before going out. 
A pint of bromo chloralum costs fifty cents, but a small 
vial will last a long time. 



How to Take Care of the Hands. 



269 





A PERFECT ARM AND HAND. 



Horn to Take Care of the Haftds. 



To prevent chapping and roughness of the hands, soap 
Bhould be used very sparingly and the hands should never be 
washed just before going out of doors. If the hands are in- 
clined to be rough, it is best to use a little mutton tallow 
after each washing. 

Buckskin, kid, dogskin, or other forms of leather, should be 
worn in cold weather. Silk and woolen gloves and mittens 
ere more likely to produce roughness. 



Wash the hands in water containing a few drops of bay rum 
and ammonia. 

Or, take one half teacupful of cologne virater, and another ol 
lemon juice ; scrape into it two cakes of Brown Windsor soap. 
Mix well and let it harden. This will be an excellent soap for 
whitening the hands. 



First wash the hands with castile soap, and then apply a 
little of the above wash. 



Wash the hands in water as het as can be borne; then apply 
mutton tallow, cosmoiine or a little carbolic acid and water 



To Whiten the Hands. 




Chapped Hands. 



270 



The Hands. 



Beaatifal Hands. — The first thing one should do, in 

order to secure beautiful hands, is to see to existing blem- 
ishes, and their removal, if that be possible. 

Warts. — As for warts, for instance, they are very disfig- 
uring, and should be got rid of at as early an age as possi- 
ble, so that any scars left may the sooner disappear. 

Remedy. — There are many simple remedies for warts, 
but they are not always effectual. The ordinary milk- 
weed of suburban gardens may be tried. The wart is to 
be touched with the juice twice or thrice daily. 

Second.— If this does not succeed, we go a step further, 
and try a wash like the following, which not only tends to 
banish and prevent warts, but is useful for red hands, and 
helps to do away with clamminess. It is very simple. 
You take about a dram and a half of sal-ammoniac, and 
dissolve it in a quart of rain-water. Add a tablespoonful 
of toilet vinegar. The hands are to be steeped in this — 
they must have been previously washed and dried — for 
about a quarter of an hour every morning and evening. 

Third, — If obdurate, the warts will want more stringent 
treatment. There is strong acetic acid to be had at the 
chemists, in tubes all ready. It should be used with cau- 
tion — not a drop or half drop being allowed to fall any- 
where, for it stains and burns. Touch only the wart gen- 
tly once a day, and don't let any on the whole skin. But 
the caustic silver pencil is equally effectual. 

Fourth. — If the wart is sufficiently large, it may be re- 
moved by winding around it first a silk or silver thread, 
and after it is dried and shriveled, cauterize with a little 
nitrate of silver. 

The very best treatment, however, is electrolysis, and it 
is done by a galvanic battery; this should be done by the 
profession who understand the business. 

Moles. — Moles may also be got rid of by acetic acid or 
even caustic silver; but they are more ticklish things to 
tackle than warts, so surgical aid should be had. I am 
much against self-treatment where safety is jeopardized. 

Superfluons Hairs are disfiguring. They can be removed 
by the ordinary depilatories of shops; but these often 
contain arsenic; they are thus dangerous. Besides, they 
are dear; and one does not always like to ask for such 
things. I think the following depilatory as good and safe 
as any. It is simply a stroiig solution of sulphuret of 
barium formed into a paste with powdered starch. It is 
left on a few minutes and scraped off with the back of a 
knife. Or here is a French recipe: Crystallized hydrosul- 



The Hands. 



271 



phate of soda one part, and three parts of each of pow- 
dered starch and powdered quicklime. Make into a paste 
with water, put on, and let stay on for two minutes; 
then scrape off with a wooden knife. 

Depilatories all require to be handled with caution 
Touch the skin with oil afterwards, and do all this at 
night. Hairs may be tweezed out. Then there is 
electrolysis — a long and somewhat painful process. 

Chapped Hands. — Some girls suffer greatly from this 
complaint, especially during the winter months. They 
must take the precautions I shall presently give for the 
preservation of the hands, and they must live in such a 
way as to increase the general strength and tone of the 
body, for chapped hands as well as chilblains are often 
associated with a weakened state of the constitution. 

Our Girls. — I may say here at once, that no girl can 
expect to have pretty hands who lets herself get below 
par. They will be red and rough, because the heart is 
not strong enough to receive back the blood as well as 
it ought. Therefore it gets dammed up in the extremities 
— and with what results? Why, coldness of hands and 
feet, clammy feet or hands, red, rough hands, red ears, 
and — let me whisper it — a red nose. It is surprising how 
soon, in cases of this sort, improvement may take place 
from a course of citrate of iron and quinine — three to 
four grains thrice a day in water after meals — the cold or 
tepid bath after breakfast, an occasional mild liver pill, 
good solid — not sloppy — food, codliver oil and or un- 
bounded exercise in the open air. Try this treatment 
and have the grace to think kindly of your "Medicus" 
for recommending it. 

Local Treatment. — But of course for chapped hands 
some local treatment is also necessary. Well, the cam- 
phor ball is as good as anything I know. It soothes, 
and it allays irritation, too. Then there is almond paste, 
rubbed well in at night, with gloves worn. 

Another little mixture is glycerine mixed with a small 
quantity of tincture of benzoin and well rubbed in several 
times a "day. 

Cosmetics. — Now, I want my readers to disabuse their 
minds of the notion that cosmetics of any kind whatso- 
ever will permanently whiten or beautify the hands if 
the health is neglected. I am very earnest in saying this, 
and I hope you will remember it. 



272 



The Hands. 



Ordinary Care of Hands. — To begin with, they 
should be kept very clean. But I do not advise you to be 
pTirpetually scouring your hands, nor using too rough a 
towel. The use of sandsoap or pumice-stone is highly 
objectionable. Always use the mildest non-alkaline soap; 
there are many good ones in the market, but do not 
trust to puffing advertisements, and never buy a cheap 
soap — cheap and nasty! Always use rain water. Keep 
your hands gently warm — not hot — while out of doors. 
Muffs are not always advantageous, as they sweat the 
hands. If you would avoid roughness and redness, never 
hold your hands over the fire. 

Standing About in Cold Booms while in even- 
ing dress has a most injurious effect both on the com- 
plexion and hands. Always, if possible, throw a light, 
soft shawl around your shoulders. The condition of skin 
raised by cold, and called "goose-skin," really means 
temporary paralysis of the cuticle, and is very detrimental 
if often repeated. 

Drinking Hot Tea or hot drinks of any kind when 
very cold is also bad for hands and face. Such drinks 
produce a too early reaction, and mischief is done that 
is difficult to get over. 

Nails. — A soft nail-brush should be used in washing 
tke hands. If any instrument be needed for the nails, 
it should be of ivory, not of steel; if you use a sharp steel 
instrument you roughen the under surface, and they 
soon get unsightly, and are more easily soiled. 

Trimming'. — About once a week is often enough 
to trim the nails. Do not cut them too much down at the 
sides, else you may have an ingrowing nail. Trim them 
oval or filbert, which ever suits the shape of the fingers 
best. Do not, however, leave them too long, or they 
may easily be likened to claws by people who don't 
love you. 

Hot Water. — Wash in hot water, and the skin that 
grows up over the nail may then easily be kept in its 
proper place by the ivory trimmer. 

Lemon Juice and glycerine will clean and soften the 
hands. When putting glycerine on chapped hands, first 
wash them thoroughly in soap and water, and when not 
quite dry rub in the glycerine. This process will be found 
much better than the old one. Vaseline is also splendid 
for chapped hands. 
^ Chapped Hands. — At some seasons of the year it is almost 
impossible to keep the hands from chapping and looking 



The Hands. 



red when they are in water as frequently as it is necessary 
to have them. Below is given a most excellent recipe for 
making laureline, which is simply and easily prepared at 
home, and very inexpensive: 

Laureline. — Two ounces of glycerine, one ounce of al- 
cohol, one-fourth ounce of gum tragacanth, one-fourth 
to one-half ounce of rosewater or violet perfume, one pint 
of water; soak the tragacanth in the water two days, then 
strain and add the other ingredients. Cut the glycerine 
with the alcohol. If it should be too thick add a little 
more water and alcohol. Bottle, and it is ready for use. 

In very cold weather, if it is too thick to pour easily, 
heat it by setting over the register or in a bowl of hot 
water. 

Redness. — A good wash for preventing redness of the 
hands is made of one teaspoonful of muriate of ammonia, 
one tablespoonful of aromatic vinegar and one quart of 
tepid soft water. Soak the hands in a little of this for 
about fifteen minutes every night and morning. 




" THE YOUNG DOCTOE." 



274 The Toilet. 




QUEEN ELIZABETH OF ENGLAND, 
Known as the Virgin l^ueen. 



HOW LADIES SHOULD DRESS. 

1. In the dress of ladies, great latitude is allowed ; but 
the aim of the gentle sex should be simplicity and taste. 

2. A lady must always consider what colors will suit her 
complexion. If she be dark, blue will not look well upon 
her ; or if she be fair, pink will not become her. The most 
trying color is yellow. Only very pronounced brunettes 
can wear it. A lady must also take her size into consid- 
eration in selecting her dress. Stripes running the length 
of tlie dress have the effect of making a short person look 
taller, and should not be_worn by a tall person. 



The Toilet, 



275 



3. The street dress of a lady should be simple and 
without display. To dress conspicuously or in brilliant 
colors for the street is a sign of bad breeding. In bad 
weather, a light India-rubber waterproof with a hood 
is more convenient and a better protection than an um- 
brella. To wear much jewelry on the street is vulgar. In 
large cities it subjects a lady to the danger of robbery or to 
conspicuous notice. 

4. For church the dress should be simple and plain. 
Very little jewelry should be worn, and the costume should 
be of quiet colors. It is a mark of bad taste for ladies to 
attend church elaborately or conspicuously dressed. 

5. Modesty in dress and behavior add more charm to 
woman than the rustle of silk or the glitter of gold. 




QUEEN MARY, 
Wife of William HL 



QUEEN ANNE. 



276 The Toilet. 



Different Stgles of Weaimg M Hair % He I8tn senturi 




STYLE IN STYLE IN 

1780. 1790. 



The Toilet. 



277 



Sfyiesof WearlQotlieliaiiiqtlie Degiimino of tlie istliCentorg. 




STYLE IN STYLE IN 

1800. 1800. 





STYLE IN 

1820. 




STYLE IN 

1840. 



278 



The Hair, 




A ROOT OF HAIR. 
Representation of a Hair highly magnified, 
n. Basement membrance of liair follicle; b, layer of cells resting upon it, 
which become more Hcaly as they approach c, and form the cortex. The 
medullary substance of the hair consists of cells at the base ; at d they 
become elongated and finally fibrous ; e, coloring matter of hair. 



The Structure of the Hair. 

1. The whole body, except the palms of the hands and 
the soles of the feet, is covered with hair. The hair of the 
head in different individuals embraces a vast variety of 
color, length and quality. 

2. Root of the Hair. — The root of the hair is made of 
two parts, sheath and bulb. The bulb is two or three times 
the diameter of the hair and is made up of cells. 

3. The Bulb is the enlargement of the root as shown in 
the above figure, and the color of the hair is developed in 
the bulb. In gray hair there is no coloring matter. Thus 
it is seen that when the bulb becomes diseased, and the root 
of the hair dies, it must naturally fall out, just as the tree 
whose root is dead must decay and fall. 

4. Growtli of Ilair. — The growth of all hair takes place 
in the root, which is supplied with blood vessels. A hair is 
nothing more nor less than a little tube and its growth largely 



The Hair. 



279 



depends on the condition of health. Many people lose 
their hair on account of a diseased or debilitated consti- 
tution. When the hair commences falling out, it is always 
well to take a good tonic and keep the constitution in good 
repair, and it may be possible to preserve the hair for 
many years. 

FALLING OUT OF THE HAIR. 

No Absolute Cure. — There are no absolute remedies 
that will restore hair after it is diseased and has fallen out. 
A remedy of that kind would be worth millions to the 
discoverer. There are some hair tonics, however, that 
are beneficial and have a restorative effect on the hair, if 
taken in time. When the roots are dead there is no 
restoration, as there is nothing left to grow. All those 
patent remedies claiming to restore lost hair are the de- 
ceptions of money scbemers. 

A Common Trouble. — Falling out of the hair is one of the 
most common troubles. The hair comes out sometimes 
in spots, but usually there is a general thinning out all 
over the head, the hair becoming dry and brittle, break- 
ing ofT and splitting at the ends. This annoying ailment 
is almost always indicative of one or two things: either 
a lack of nourishment or else a hot, feverish condition 
of the scalp. 

General Health. — The treatment then must depend on 
the general condition of your health. If you are in a 
weak, debilitated state, or if you are suffering from long- 
continued or severe nervous mental strain, you must over- 
come these conditions before you can expect any improve- 
ment in your hair. Or, on the other hand, if you are in a 
plethoric state, full blooded, with feverish symptoms, with 
a sensation of heat in the head, dry, hot skin, etc., you 
must likewise correct this tendency before you can have 
healthy growing hair. In either case tone the system by 
tonics, good food and plenty of rest and sleep; avoid hair 
restoratives, hair tonics, etc., and take flowers of sulphur 
in small doses (say a quarter of a teaspoonful twice a day 
in a little milk). 

Use a Soft Brush. — Stimulate the roots of the hair by 
frequent and long-continued use of a soft brush; clip off 
the split ends, and keep the scalp clean. There is nothing 
better for washing the head than tepid water and Castile 
soap, to which has been added a tablespoonful of alcohol, 
cologne or bay rum. 



280 



The Hair. 



HOW TO CARE FOR THE HAIR. 



A Housekeeper's Opinion. 

Importance. — There is nothing that adds so much to a 
woman's appearance as an abundance of soft, glossy hair, 
and more thought and time should be spent in taking care 
of it than is usually given. Keep it free from dust by 
wearing a dusting-cap while sweeping, taking up carpets, 
and similar work. Brushing from five to ten minutes 
every night and morning will make it glossy and stimulate 
its growth. I know of two sisters who perform this task 
for each other regularly, and I have never seen more 
beautiful hair than theirs. It is more convenient than to 
brush one's own hair, of course, but those who have no 
sister within reach, and can not afiford a lady's maid, can 
usually do the work very nicely themselves. The brush 
should have long, stif? bristles that will remove the dust, 
and should be kept scrupulously clean. A fine-tooth comb 
is useful for removing dandruff, which, if allowed to re- 
main, incrusts the scalp, invites disease, and causes the 
hair to turn gray or fall out. At night it should be 
braided loosely, tied with soft ribbon, and allowed to hang. 
Some attention should be given the hairpins, as those 
that are rough, coarse, or sharply pointed should not be 
used. 

Wasbing. — The hair will need washing once a month. 
The following method is very simple, and leaves it in ex- 
cellent condition. Use plenty of warm, soft water and 
Ivory soap to get it clean, changing the water as often 
as necessary. Rinse in clear, soft water, and wipe as dry 
as possible with a towel. Then spread it ovfer the 
shoulders and sit near the fire to finish drying. A little 
vaseline appli d after it is dry keeps it from fiying about 
by supplying the oil that has been removed by washing. 
At no other time is any oil or pomade necessary. 

Bleaches.=Preparations containing cantharides cause 
the hair to grow by stimulating the scalp to healthy action. 
Many bleaches are injurious, and have been known to 
seriously affect the brain. vVhy should any woman wish 
to change the color of her hair, which usually harmonizes 
wi<:h her features and complexion, simply because fashion 
declares in favor of blond tresses? 



The Hair. 



281 



Glossiness. — It is Important to give attention to the general 
healthfulness of the hair and scalp, if we would preserve 
its early glossiness, instead of trying to restore it when faded 
and gray. It is said that English women preserve the glossi- 
ness of their hair almost to old age by applying once a 
week, and rubbing in vigorously among the roots of the 
hair, a cream made as follows: Take a pint of pure 
glycerine, put it in a quart bottle, and shake it up briskly, 
with six ounces of lime water. This must be done until 
it forms a soft, white cream. The hair, after the cream 
is rubbed into the scalp, is brushed well, and thus the 
cream is distributed to its very tips. 

Dandruif is not, as many people think, a result of 
negligence or of uncleanliness, for it can certainly be pro- 
duced by a vigorous use of a harsh brush. Any appli- 
cation, or any treatment that excoriates or irritates the 
scalp will produce dandrutf. A laxative diet, or an 
aperient medicine, and the use of a soft brush, with one 
of the dressings given above, will cure any case of dan- 
druff. Sore head — red, inflamed scalp, either in spots or 
covering the entire head — ringworms, etc., are annoying 
and painful in the extreme, but a cure is surer and simpler 
than is generally supposed. A cooling diet, free use of 
seltzer water and the use of an ointment made according 
to the recipe given below, will cure the most obstinate 
cases: Take of lard one tablespoonful and rub in a 
quarter of ateaspoonful of tar (not coal tar, but pine tar). 
Rub this salve well into the scalp every night, and by 
morning the disagreeable odor will be gone. 

Remedy. — Where there is a loose scurf and dandruff, ap- 
ply the following preparation once a week: Yolk of one egg; 
warm rain water one pint; bay rum one ounce. Beat the 
ingredients thoroughly together, and use it warm, rub- 
bing the scalp thoroughly. It is always best to avoid all 
barbers' shampoos, and all other strong liquids manu- 
factured for the purpose of removing dandruff. They 
are injurious to both hair and scalp. If the hair is dry 
after washing, apply a little hair oil made of one part 
castor oil and three parts alcohol. 

Hair Oil of all kinds should be carefully avoided; if 
the hair is very dry and sfifT, a little oil made as above may 
be used, otherwise avoid all oil, grease, or pomades of 
any kind. If you desire to preserve your natural growth 
of hair, with a natural healthy gloss, use only water or a 
weak solution of bay rum. 



282 



The Nair. 



Dyeing. — If you desire to preserve your hair, carefully 
avoid all kinds ol hair dye; there are some remedies that 
will darken the hdir without injuring it, Taut any of the 
regular hair dyes, such as are commonly used, are un- 
sale and injurious. The color nature' has bestowed upon 
the human hair is more perfect and more beautiful than 
any imitations which can be produced by any system of 
dyeing. Gray locks come with age and are an adornment 
and not a disgrace. 

Oray Hairs.— Some* persons are given to pulling out 
solitary gray hairs that make their appearance early. They 
could not do anything more foolish. The hair is simply 
broken off at the root, and the decayed nutriment escapes, 
inoculating the hair in the immediate vicinity. As a con- 
sequence, for every gray hair pulled out, five more make 
their appearance. 

There is nothing finer than gray hair on the head of one 
who is nearing the horizon of life. It is an aureole of 
glory. 

How to Make the Hair Wave.— Soft, natural-looking 
waves of hair are made by rolling the hair over large, soft 
papers or kid curlers, rolling from the top of the curl 
toward the end. The hair should be wet and left on the 
rolls over nignt. If that is not done, pinch the curls with 
a hot iron. If you wish to have the hair set out around 
the face, turn the teeth of your side combs toward the face, 
and not away from it. Catch them through the end of 
your waves, and you can fluff the hair as little or as much 
as you choose. 

HOW TO CLEAN HAIR BRUSHES. 

Put a teaspoonful or dessertspoonful of 
aqua ammonia into a basin half full of 
w"ter, comb the loose hairs out of the 
brush, then agitate the water 
briskly with the brush, and 
rinse it well with clear water. 
A few drops of hartshorn put ii^^^'z ^' 
into a little water will clean a ^mm8Ki*^IL.V 
h.qir brush nicely. If very ^ 
dirty, use a little soap also. 




How to Take Care of the Hair. 



'283 




flow TO TAK.E CARE OP THE llAIR. 



How to Prepare Your Own Hair Oil, Tonics, Shampoos, and the 
Different Preparations for tbe Hair and Beard. 

1. Cleanliness is the first requisite to a healthy vigorous 
growth of hair. It should be kept clean by brushing, combirg 
and washing the scalp thoroughly with soap and water at least 
once in two weeks. 

2. It is best to trim the ends of the hair once a month to con* 
tinue a healthy growth. 

3. Washing the hair once a day in cold water, produces the 
healthiest, most lasting growth of iiair. Avoid the strong 
shampoo liquids generally used by barbers. 

4. There are many cases in whicli the loss of hair cannot be 
remedied, but there are cases where an application of good 
healthy tonics and proper care will restore a new and sufHcient 
growth. 

5. If the hair is inclined to come out, avoid all. barber's 

SHAMPOOS AND SEA FOAMS. 

6. Avoid hair oils unless the hair is very stiff and dry. and 
then use it sparingly. 

7. Most all hair dyes are very injurious, and unless the 
growth of hair is vigorous, it^hould be carefully avoided. 



284 



Tonics and Oils. 



TONICS AND OILS. 

We have, as has been seen, discouraged the use of 
tonics and oils and we would repeat that it 's best to avoid 
their use. Some of them are harmless, but others are 
injurious. For the benefit of those who would use them 
we give some of the best and safest recipes. 

Hair Tonic or Wash made of the following, bay rum, 
4 ounces; rain water, 4 ounces; quinine, 20 grains, is one 
of the best hair tonics and restoratives for general daily 
use made. It promotes vigor, growth, and keeps the 
hair soft and glossy. If the hair is very light, falls out 
and breaks, the quinine wash should be applied every 
night before retiring. 

Clipping. — When after an illness the hair falls out it 
should be cut short and kept clipped for at least twelve 
months. Wash the scalp regularly two or three times a 
week with the following hair tonic: 

Tinct. bloodroot, 2 drachms; tinct. lobelia, i drachm; 
tinct, capsicum, 2 drachms; tinct, cantharides, 2 drachms; 
glycerine, 2 ounces; alcohol, 7 ounces; bay rum, 7 ounces; 
sul. quinine, 2 grains. 

Dissolve the quinine in the alcohol first, and then add 
the other ingredients. 

Apply at night, rubbing freely into the scalp. 

This remedy has been proven to be among the best 
and can be safely applied under any and all circumstances 
where the hair shows signs of deadness and is falling out. 

Hair Dressing-. — In nearly every instance thorough 
brushing will keep the hair soft, tractable and glossy, but 
if it is very stubborn and you think you really must have 
a dressing I advise the use of either of the following as 
safe — the last one especially is clean and cool, and free 
from greasiness, being really a fluid neutral soap. It is 
the very best dressing for children's hair that can be used. 
Remember that any hair dressing should be used sparingly 
and well brushed in. Take of castor oil four fluid ounces, 
alcohol two fluid ounces, add' any perfume you like and 
shake well; or bay rum eight ounces, glycerine two fluid 
ounces; or pure sweet oil six fluid ounces and limewater 
two fluid ounces. Shake well every time it is used. 

Hair Tonic (Baldness). — Tjncture capsicum, 2 drachms; 
water ammonia (10 per cent.), ounce; pilocarpine hydro- 
chlorate, 5 grains; cologne, 3 ounces. Use on scalp twice a 
day. 



Hovj to Take Car 3 0/ the Hatt 



285 



A GOOD flAir? OIL. 

Castor oil, i quart, 
Alcohol, 95 per cent, 3 quarts. 
Oil of verbena, 3 drachms. 
MiJi them tTiem thoroughly. 

ii you desire it colored, use a little Tinct AlkanCo Root 

TO DARHGN TUG HAIR. 
The following receipt will gradually darken the hair anc 
produce no Injurious results. 

Rain water, K pint, 
Alcohol, I ounce, 
Essence of Rose, 12 drops. 
Powdered Blue Vitrei, i drachm. 

Mix thoroughly. 

Firje Sl?an>poo LicjdirJ, 

Dissolve M ounce carb. of ammonia and 1 ounce of borax in 
1 qt. of water, then add 

2 ounces glycerine, 

3 qts. of New England rum, 
I qt. of bay rum. 

Moisten the hair with this liquor ; shampoo with the hands 
until a slight lather is formed, then wash off with clean water. 

36a Foarr) for Barbers. 

4 ounces alcohol, K ounce ammonia, 

I ounce castor oil, i pint rain water. 

Dissolve the castor oil and ammonia in the alcohol, then 
add the alcohol mixture to the water. 
N.B.^Good healthy ha r requires no tonics, oil or 
shampoo liquids, warm water and pure soap only. 

DANDRUFF ON BABY'S HEAD. * 

Grease with chicke 1 oil, or fresh unsalted butter, or 
tweet cre im : then remove by combing. 

To Cleanse the Heaa. — An excellent shampoo is made 
of salts of tartar, white castile soap, bay rum, and luke- 
warm water. The salts will remove all dandruff,, the 
soap will softi.n the hair and cleanse it thoroughly, and 
the bay rum will prevent taking cold. 



286 



Practical Hints for Shaving. 



PRACTICAL HINTS FOR SHAVING. 




How to Sharpen a Razor, Keep the Face Smooth, Color the 
Beard, Cure Pimples, and Various Preparations 
for the Face. 

1. To Make a Good Razor Strop, take a piece of an old 
leather belt, wliicli has been used on some threshing machine 
or factory machinery, cut it narrow and oil it well. No better 
strop in use. 

2. Take a piece of new kip leather and oil it well with wagon 
gi'ease. -Ce sure not to tiike the grease from the outside of the 
wheel, as it is filled with too much dust and dirt. 

3. No one shaving himself should neglect the use of Bay 
Bum, or a good face wash after shaving. It keeps the skiu 
smooth and soft, and makes shaving an easy task. 

4. One of the best and cheapest washes for the face, to use 
after shaving, is the following : 

2 oz. Glycerine, 

I oz. Tincture Benzoin, 

I oz. Rose Water. 



How to Take Care of the Hair^ 



287 




To Prevent the Hair from Falling Out. 

Wetting the hair thojoughly once or twice a week with a 
weak solution of salt water will prevent it from falling out. 

HAIR TONIC. 

TO KEEP THE HAIR FROM FALLING OUT. 

Tinct. bloodroot, 2 drachms, 

Tinct. lobelia, 1 drachm 

Tinct. capsicum, 2 drachms, 

Tinct. cantharides, 2 drachms, 

Glycerine, 2 ounces, 

Alcohol, 7 ounces. 

Bay rum, 7 ounces, 

Sul quinine. 20 grains. 
Dissolve the quinine in the alcohol first, and then add the 
other ingredients. 
Apply at night, rubbing freely into the scalp. 

A Celebrated Liquid for Curling the Hair. 

Most receipts for curling the hair are very injurious, but the 
following is harmless and excellent. 

Glycerine, M ounce, 

Rectified spirits, \ \i ounce, ■ 

Distilled water, 16 ounces, 

Liquor of ammonia, 1 drachm, 

Dry salts of tartar, 1 drachm, 

Powdered cochineal, M drachm. 

Essence ot rose, % drachm. 
Mix and let it stand 10 days, then filter and moisten the hair 
while combing it 



288 Practical Flints for Shaving. 

ORIENTAL SHAYING CREAM. 

4 ounces oil of almonds. 
2 drachms white wax. 
2 drachms spermaceti. 

Melt, and add rose water, 4 ounces; orange flower water, 
I ounce; used to soften the skin, apply as the last. 

LIQUID FOR FORCING THE BEARD. 

2 ounces cologne. 

1 drachm liquid hartshorn. 

2 drachms tmcture cantharides. 
12 drops oil rosemary. 

12 drops lavender. 

Apply to the face daily, and await result. Said to be re- 
liable. 

A CURE FOR PIMPLES ON THE FACE. 

50 drops carbolic acid. 

3 ounces glycerine. 
I ounce rose water. 

This is one of the best and safest remedies in use. Many 
of the so-called Pimple Cures, do more injury than good. 

BARBERS' ITCH OINTMENT. 

I pound olive oil. 

1 pound suet. 

2 ounces alkanet root. 

Melt, and macerate until colored; then strain, and add 
3 ounces of alum, nitre and sulphate of zinc, in very fine 
powder, adding vermillion to color it, and oil of anise 
seed, lavender and thyme to perfume. 

A GOOD RAZOR STROP PASTE. 

Wet the strop with a little sweet oil, and apply a little 
flour of emery evenly over the surface. 

CLIFFORD'S SHAMPOO COMPOUND. 

pound of borax. 
X pound of salts tartar. 

Mix and dissolve I ounce of the mixture in I pint 
of water. 



How to Take Care of the Feet. 289 
HOW TO TAKE CARE OF THE FEET. 




HOW TO CUBE CORNS, CHILBLAINS, IN6B0WIN6 
NAILS, COLD FEET, ETC. 



Corn Cnre. 

Soak the feet thoroughly in hot water and remove all 
the hard skin with a sharp knife and apply kerosene 
oil. This process repeated twice a week will cure the 
worst case of corns, providing a loose-fitting shoe is 
worn. 

How to Remove Corns from Between the Toes. 

These corns are generally more painful than any others, 
and are frequently situated so as to be almost inaccessible 
to the usual remedies. Wetting them several times a 
day with hartshorn will in most cases cure them. 

Do not use those Patent Medicine Cures, they are almost 
always sure to make you serious trouble. 

A Cure for Chilblains. 

1. The first thing to relieve distress is gentle rubbing 
with the hands and the wearing of loose and easy-fitting 
shoes. 

2. If irritation continues, apply a little camphor and 
water, or a weak solution of carbolic acid and water, or a 
little kerosene and lard. 

19 



290 Buniont. Antidotes for Cold Feet. 




Injured by shoe Natural Foot. Cramped toes 

too short. from tight shoes. 



HOW TO CURE BUNIONS, 

h. bunion is nothing more or less than a large corn, and is 
generally caused by wearing short, high-heeled, and narrow 
soled shoes, which throw the weight of the body on the 
front part of the foot. 

Home Remedy : — Take a small, flat and hollow Indian 
rubber ring or band and place it over the bunion so as to 
keep off the pressure of the shoe. A cotton band may be 
used. 

When the pain is severe, it should be poulticed with a 
bread and milk poultice. 

Kerosene treatment recommended for corns is also very 
efficient. Or touch it with a little Ntrate of silver occa- 
sionally- 

ANTIDOTES FOR COLD FEET. 

Coldfeetaregenerally the resultof profuse perspiration. Put 
small quantities of pulverized alum in the stockings every 
morning. Bathe the feet every night in warm water and 
saleratus. 

Cold feet are sometimes the result of poor circulation. la 
that case the general health should be toned up. 



Effects of Tight Shoes. 291 




An Unhealthy Shoe. Effects of Tight Shoes. 



THE EFFECTS OF WEARING TIGHT 
SHOES. 

The above illustration shows the effects of high-heeled 
tight shoes. Also the effects of cramping the toes. 

No sensible person can really suppose there is anything 
unpleasant, or even unsightly in the form of a perfect 
human foot, and yet all attempts to construct shoes upon a 
sensible model are met with extreme objections. Fashion 
must be favored with a fashionable shoe, which injures not 
only the foot, but in many instances results in serious injury 
of health itself. 

The foolish custom of wearing tight and high-heeled 
shoes is accompanied with more serious results to general 
health and comfort than almost any other whim of fashion. 

Remember that a natural foot in a comfortable shoe will 
save you much distress, and many hours of discomfort. 

HOW TO CURE INGROWING NAILS. 

The ingrowing nail is caused by wearing tight shoes or boots, 
or by an improper mode of cutting the nails. 
I Rbmedy. Scrape the nails in the centre with a sharp knife 
•r piece of glass until it becomes very thin and tender. Keep 
tt scraped in until cured. If it has become very sore the nai) 
should be cut away from the irritated or ulcerated part 
i^d dressed twice a day with cosmoline. 



292 



Footwear, 



SOME POINTERS ABOUT FOOTWEAR, 

Dr. Samuel Appleton gives fourteen of them, which 
every person will derive comfort in heeding: 

1. Never wear a shoe that will not allow the great 
toe to lie in a straight line. 

2. Never wear a shoe with a sole narrower than the 
outline of the foot traced with a pencil close under the 
rounding edge. 

3. Never wear a shoe that pinches the heel. 

4. Never wear a shoe or boot so large in the heel that 
the foot is not kept in place. 

5. Never wear a shoe or boot tight anywhere. 

6. Never wear a shoe or boot that has depressions in 
any part of the sole to drop any joint or bearing below 
the level plane. 

7. Never wear a shoe with a sole turning up very much 
at the toes, as this causes the cords on the upper part 
of the foot to contract. 

8. Never wear a shoe that presses up into the hollow 
of the foot. 

9. Never have the top of the boots tight, as it in- 
terferes with the action of the calf muscles, makes one 
walk badly, and spoils the shape of the ankle. 

10. Never come from high heels to low heels at one 
jump. 

11. Never wear one pair of shoes all the time, unless 
obliged to do so. Two pairs of boots worn a day at a 
time alternately give more service and are much more 
healthful. 

12. Never wear a leather sole lining to stand upon. 
White cotton drilling or linen is much better and more 
healthful. 

13. Never wear a short stocking, or one which after 
being washed is not, at least, one-half inch longer than 
the foot. Bear in mind that stockings shrink. Be sure 
that they will allow your toes to spread out at extreme 
ends, as this keeps the joints in place and makes a 
strong and attractive foot. As to shape of stockings, 
the single digital or "one-toe stocking" is the best. 

14. Never think that the feet will grow large from 
wearing proper shoes. Pinching and distorting makes 
them grow not only large, but unsightly. A proper, 
natural use of all the muscles makes them compact and 
attractive. 



Rules 071 Etiquette. 293 




" MY DATJGHTEB, EEMEMBEE, YOtJE MANNEES SPEAK LOUDEE THAN WOED3." 

HINTS AND HELPS ON GOOD BEHAVIOR AT ALL 
TIMES AND AT ALL PLACES. 

1. It takes acquaintance to found a noble esteem, but 
politeness prepares the way. Indeed, as Montaigne says, 
cjurtesy begets esteem at eight. Urbanity is half of 
afYability, and afifability is a charm worth possessing. 

2. A pleasing demeanor is often the scales by which the 
pagan weighs the Christian. It is not virtue, but virtue 
inspires it. There are circumstances in which it takes a 
great and strong soul to pass under the little yoke of 
courtesy, but it is a passport to a greater soul standard. 

3. Matthew Arnold says: "Conduct is three-fourths of 
character," and Christian benijjnity draws the line for con- 



294 



Hules 071 Etiquette. 



duct. A high sense of rectitude, a lowly soul, with a pure 
and kind heart, are elements of nobility which will work 
out in the life of a human being at home— everywhere. 
"Private refinement makes public gentility." 

4. If you would conciliate the favor of men, rule your 
resentment. Remember that if you permit revenge or 
malice to occupy your soul, you are ruined. 

5. Cultivate a happy temper; banish the blues; a cheer- 
ftrl, sanguine spirit begets cheer and hope. 

6. Be trustworthy and be trustful. 

7. Do not place a light estimate upon the arts of good 
reading and good expression; they will yield perpetual in- 
terest. 

8. Study to keep versed in world events as well as in 
local occurrences, but abhor gossip, and above all scandal. 

9. Banish a self-conscious spirit — the source of much 
awkwardness — with a constant aim to make others happy. 
Remember that it is incumbent upon gentlemen and ladies 
alike to be neat in habits. 

10. The following is said to be a correct posture for 
walking: Head erect — not too rigid — chin in, shoulders 
back. Permit no unnecessary motion about the thighs. 
Do not lean over to one side in walking, standing or sit- 
ting; the practice is not only ungraceful, but it is deform- 
ing and therefore unhealthful. 

11. Beware of affectation and of Beau Brummel airs. 

12. If the hands are allowed to swing in walking, the 
arc should be limited, and the lady will manage them 
much more gracefully, if they almost touch the clothing. 

13. A lady should not stand with her hands behind her. 
We could almost say, forget the hands except to keep 
them clean, including the nails, cordial and helpful. One 
hand may rest easily in the other. Study repose of atti- 
tude here as well as in the rest of the body. 

14. Gestures are for emphasis in public speaking; do not 
point elsewhere, as a rule. 

15. Greet your acquaintances as you meet them with a 
slight bow, and smile as you speak. 

16. Look the person to whom you speak in the eye. 
Never under any circumstances wink at another or com- 
municate by furtive looks. 

17. Should you chance to be the rejected suitor of a 
lady, bear in mind your own self-respect, as well as the 
inexorable laws of society, and bow politely when you 
meet her. Reflect that you do not stand before a11 wo- 
man-kind as you do at her bar. Do not resent the bitter- 



Rules on Etiquette. 



295 



ness of flirtation. No lady or gentleman will flirt. Re- 
member ever that painful prediscovery is better than later 
disappointment. Let such experience spur you to higher 
exertion. 

18. Discretion should be exercised in introducing per- 
sons. Of two gentlemen who are introduced, if one is 
superior in rank or age, he is the one to whom the intro- 
duction should be made. Of two social equals, if one be 
a stranger in the place, his name should be mentioned 
first. 

19. In general the simpler the introduction the better. 

20. Before introducing a gentleman to a lady, remember 
that she is entitled to hold you responsible for the ac- 
quaintance. The lady is the one to whom the gentleman 
is presented, which may be done thus: "Miss A., permit 
me to introduce to you my friend, Mr. B.;" or, "Miss A., 
allow me to introduce Mr. B." If mutual and near friends 
of yours, say simply, "Miss A., Mr. B." 

21. Receive the introduction with a slight bow and the 
acknowledgment, "Miss A., I am happy to make your ac- 
quaintance;" or, "Mr. B., I am pleased to meet you." 
There is no reason why such stereotyped expressions 
should always be used, but something similar is expected. 
Do not extend the hand usually. 

22. A true lady will avoid familiarity in her deportment 
toward gentlemen. A young lady should not permit her 
gentlemen friends to address her by her home name, and 
the reverse is true. Use the title Miss and Mr. respec- 
tively. 

23. Ladies should be frank and cordial towards their 
lady friends, but never gushing. 

24. Should you meet a friend twice or oftener, at short 
intervals, it is polite to bow slightly each time after the 
first. 

25. A lady on meeting a gentleman with whom she has 
slight acquaintance will make a medium bow — neither too 
decided nor too slight or stifif. 

26. For a gentleman to take a young lady's arm is to 
intimate that she is feeble, and young ladies resent the 
mode. 

27. If a young lady desires to visit any public place 
where she expects to meet a gentleman acquaintance, she 
should have a chaperon to accompany her, a person of 
mature years when possible, and never a giddy girl. 

28. A lady should not ask a gentleman to walk with her. 



296 Rules on Etiquette. 




A Complete Etiquette in a Few Practical Rules. 

/. If you desire to be respected, keep clean. The finest 
attire and decorations will add nothing to the appearance or 
beauty cf an untidy person. 

2. Clean clothing, clean skin, clean hands, including the 
nails, and clean, white teeth, are a requisite passport for 
good society. 

3. A bad breath should be carefully remedied, whether it 
proceeds from the sto7nach or from decayed teeth. 

4. To pick the nose, finger about the ears, or scratch the 
head or any other part of the person, in company, is decid- 
edly vulgar. 

J. When you call at any private residence, do not neglect 
to clean your shoes thoroughly, 

6. A gentleman should always remove his hat in the pres- 
ence of ladies, except out of doors, and then he should lift or 
touch his hat in salutation. On meeting a lady a well-bred 
gentleman will always lift his hat. 

7. An invitation to a lecture, concert, or other entertain- 
ment, may be either verbal or written, but should always 
made at least twenty-four hours before the time. 



Rules on Etiquette. 



297 



8. On entering a hall or church the gentleman should 
precede the lady in walking up the aisle, or walk by her side, 
if the aisle is broad enough, 

p. A gentleman should always precede a lady upstairs, 
and follow her downstairs. 

JO. Visitors should always observe the customs of the 
church with reference to standing, sitting, or kneeling dur- 
ing the services. 

11. On leaving a hall or church at the close of entertain- 
ment or services, the gentleman should precede the lady. 

12. A gentleman walking with a lady should carry the 
parcels, and never allow the lady to be burdened with any- 
thing of the kind. 

IJ. A gentleman meeting a lady on the street and wishing 
to speak to her, should never detain her, but may turn around 
and walk in the same direction she is going, until the conver- 
sation is completed. 

14. If a lady is traveling with a gentleman, simply as a 
friend, she should place the amount af her expenses in his 
hands, or insist on paying the bills herself. 

/J. Never offer a lady costly gifts, unless you are engaged 
to her, for it looks as if you were trying to purchase her good- 
will ; and when you make a present to a lady use no ceremony 
whatever. 

16. Never carry on a private conversation in company. 
If secrecy is necessary, withdraw from the company, 

17. Never sit with your back to another without asking 
to be excused. 

18. It is as unbecoming for a gentleman to sit with legs 
crossed as it is for a lady. 

ig. Never thrum with your fingers, rub your hands, yawn 
or sigh aloud in company. 

20. Loud laughter, loud talking, or other boisterous man- 
ifestations should be checked in the society of others, especially 
(W» the street and in public places, 
30 



298 



Rules on Etiquette. 



21. When you are asked to sing or play in company, do 
without being urged, or refuse in a way that shall be final ; 
and when music is being rendered in company, show polite' 
ness to the musician by giving attention. It is very impolite 
to keep up a conversation. If you do not enjoy the music, 
keep silent. 

22. Contentions, contradictions, etc. in society should be 
carefully avoided. 

2J. Pulling out yoitr watch in company, unless asked tht 
time of day, is a mark of the demi-bred. It looks as if you 
were tired of the compa7ty and the time dragged heavily. 

24. You should never decline to be introduced to any one 
or all of the guests present at a party to which you have been 
invited. 

2J. A gentleman who escorts a lady to a party, or who 
has a lady placed under his care, is under particular obliga- 
tions to attend to her wants and see that she has pKOper at' 
tention. He should introduce her to others, and endeavor to 
make the evening pleasant. He should escort her to the sup- 
per table and provide for her wants. 

26. To take sfnall children or dogs with you on a visit oj 
ceretnotty is altogether vulgar, though in visiting familiar 
friends children are not objectionable. 




Children should early be taught the lesson of Propriety 
acd Qood Uanners. 



Rules on Etiquette. 



293 




ETIQUETTE IN YOLR SPEECH. 

Don't say Miss or Mister without the person's name. 
Don't say pants for trousers. 
Don't say gents for gentlemen. 
Don't say female for woman. 

Don't say elegant to mean everything tnat pleases vou. 

Don't say genteel for well-bred. 

Don't say ain't for isn't. 

Don't say I done it for I did it. 

Don't say he is older than me; say older than I. 

Don't say she does not see any ; say she does not see at all 

Don't say not as I know; say not that I know. 

Don't say he calculates to get off ; say he expects to get off. 

Don't say he don't; say he doesn't. 

Don't say she is some better; say she is somewhat better. 
Don't say where are you stopping ? say where are you stay- 
ing? 

Don't say you was; say you were. 
Don't say I say, says i, but simply say I said. 
Don't sign your letters yours etc., but yours truly. 
Don't say lay for lie; lay expresses action; lie expresses 
rest. 

Don't say them bonnets; say those bonnets. 
Don't say party for person. 

Don't say it looks beautifully, but say it looks beautiful. 



300 



Rules on Etiquette. 



Don't say feller, winder, to-morrer, for fellow, window, to- 
morrow. 

Don't use slangy words; they are vulgar. 
Don't use profane words; they are sinful and foolish. 
Don't say it was her, when you mean it was she. 
Don't say not at once for at once. 

Don't say he gave me a recommend, but say he gave me 
a recommendation. 

Don't say the two first for the first two. 

Don't say he learnt me French; say he taught me French. 

Don't say lit the fire; say lighted the fire. 

Don't say the man which you saw; say the man whom you 
saw. 

Don't say who done it; say who did it. 
Don't say if I was rich I would buy a carriage; say if I 
were rich. 

Don't say if I am not mistaken you are in the wrong; say 
if I mir.take not. 

Don't say who may you be; say who are you? 

Don't say go lay down; say go lie down. 

Don't say he is taller than me; say taller than I. 

Don't say I shall call upon him; say I shall call on him. 

Don't say I bought a new pair of shoes; say I bought a 
pair of new shoes. 

Don't say I had rather not; say I would rather not. 

Don't say two spoonsful; say two spoonfuls. 



ETIQUETTE OF DRESS AND HABITS. 

Don't let one day pass without a thorough cleansing of 
your person. 

Don't sit down to your evening meal before a complete 
toilet if you have company. 

Don't cleanse your nails, your nose, or your ears in public. 

Don't use hair dye, hair oil or pomades. 

Don't wear evening dress in daytime. 

Don't wear jewelry of a gaudy character; genuine jewelry 
modestly worn is not out of place. 

Don't overdress yourself or walk affectedly. 

Don't wear slippers or dressing-gown or smoking- jacket 
out of your own house. 

Don't sink your hands in your trousers' pockets. 

Don't whistle in 'public places, nor inside of houses either. 

Don't use your fingers or fists to beat a tattoo upon floor, 
desk or window panes. 

Don't examine other people's papers or letters scattered 
gn their desk,. 



Rules on Etiquette. 301 

Don't bring a smell of spirits or tobacco into the presence 
of ladies. 

Never use either in the presence of ladies. 

Don't drink spirits; millions have tried it to their sorrow. 



ETIQUETTE ON THE STREET. 

1. Your conduct on the street should always be modest 
and dignified. Ladies should carefully avoid all loud and 
boisterous conversation or laughter and all undue liveliness 
in public. 

2. When walking on the street do not permit yourself to 
be absent-minded, as to fail to recognize a friend; do not go 
along reading a book or newspaper. 

In walking with a lady on the street give her the inner 
side of the walk, unless the outside is the safer part; in 
which case she is entitled to it. 

4. Your arm should not be given to any lady except your 
wife or a near relative, or a very old lady, during the day, 
unless her comfort or safety requires it. At night the arm 
should always be offered; also in ascending the steps of a 
public building. 

5. In crossing the street a lady should gracefully raise 
her dress a little above her ankle with one hand. To raise 
the dress with both hands is vulgar, except in places where 
the mud is very deep. 

6. A gentleman meeting a lady acquaintance on the street 
should not presume to join her in her walk without first 
asking her permission. 

7. If you have anything to say to a lady whom you may 
happen to meet in the street, however intimate you may be, 
do not stop her, but turn round and walk in company with 
her; you can take leave at the end of the street. 

8. A lady should not venture out upon the street alone 
after dark. By so doing she compromises her dignity, and 
exposes herself to indignity at the hands of the rougher 
class. 

g. Never offer to shake hands with a lady in the street if 
you have on dark or soiled gloves, as you may soil hers. 

10. A lady does not form acquaintances upon the street, 
or seek to attract the attention of the other sex or of persons 
of her own sex. Her conduct is always modest and unas- 
suming. Neither does a lady demand services or favors 
from a gentleman. She accepts them graciously, always 



30J 



Rules on Etiquette. 



expressing her thanks. A gentleman will not stand on the 
street corners, or in hotel doorways, or store windows and 
g?ze impertinently at ladies as they pass by. This is the 
exclusive business of loafers. 

II. In walking with a lady who has your arm, should you 
have to cross the street, do not disengage your arm and go 
around upon the outside, unless the lady's comfort renders 
it necessary. In walking with a lady, where it is necessary 
for you to proceed singly, always go before her. 



ETIQUETTE OF CALLS. 

In the matter of making calls it is the correct thing: 

For the caller who arrived first to leave first. 

To return a first call within a week and in person. 

To call promptly and in person after a first invitation. 

For the mother or chaperon to invite a gentleman to call. 

To call within a week after any entertainment to which 
one has been invited. 

You should call upon an acquaintance who has recently 
returned from a prolonged absence. 

It is proper to make the first call upon people in a higher 
social position, if one is asked to do so. 

It is proper to call, after an engagement has been an- 
nounced, or a marriage has taken place, in the family. 

For the older residents in the city or street to call upon 
the newcomers to their neighborhood is a long recognized 
custom. 

It is proper, after a removal from one part of the city to 
another, to send out cards with one's new address upon 
them. 

To ascertain what are the prescribed hours for calling in 
the place where one is living, or makmg a visit, and to ad- 
here to those hours is a duty that must not be overlooked. 

A gentleman should ask for the lady of the house as wel'. 
as the young ladies, and leave cards for her as well as (or 
the head of the family. 



f radical Rules on Table Manners, 303 




ppaetical t^ules on Table JVTanneiTS, 

1. Help ladies with a due appreciation ; do not overload the 
plate of any person you serve. Never pour gravy on a plate 
without permission. It spoils the meat for some persons. 

2. Never put anything by force upon any one's plate. It is 
extremely ill-bred, though extremely common, to press one to 
eat of anything. 

3. If at dinner you are requested to help any one to sauce or 
gravy, do not pour it over the meat or vegetables, but on one 
side of them. Never load down a person's plate with anything. 

4. As soon as you are helped, begin to eat, or at least begia 
to occupy yourself with what you have before you. Do not 
wait till your neighbors are served — a custom that was long 
ago abandoned. 

5. Should you, however, find yourself at a table where they 
have the old-fashioned steel forks, eat with your knife, as the 
others do, and do not let it be seen that you have any objeot- 
tion to doing so. 

6. Bread should be broken. To butter a large piece of bread 
and then bite it, as childien do, is something the knowing 
never do. 



304 



Practical Rules on Table Manners. 



I. In eating game or poultry do not touch the bones with 
your fingers. To take a bone in the fingers for the purpose of 
picking it, is looked upon as being very inelegant. 

8. Never use your own knife or fork to help another. Use 
rather the knife or fork of the person you help. 

9. Never send your knife and fork, or either of them, on your 
plate when you send for a second supply. 

10. Never turn your elbows out when you use youl knife 
and fork. Keep them close to your sides. 

II. Whenever you use your fingers to convey anything to 
your mouth or to remove any thing from the mouth, let it be 
the fingers of the left hand. 

12. Tea, coffee, chocolate and the like are drank from the 
cup and never from the saucer. 

13. In masticating your food, keep your mouth shut„ oiher- 
■wise you will make a noise that will be very offensive t»i utiose 
around you. 

14. Don't attempt to talk with a full mouth. One thing at a 
time is as much as any man can do well. 

15. Should you find a worm or insect in your food, say 
nothing about it. 

16. If a dish is distasteful to you, decline it, and without 
comment. 

17. Never put bones or pits of fruit on the table-cloth. Puf 
them on the side of your plate. 

18. Do not hesitate to take the last piece on a dish, simply 
because it is the last. To do so is to directly express the feai 
that you would exhaust the supply. 

19. If you would be, what you would like to be — abroad 
take care that you are what you would like to be — at home, 

20. Avoid picking your teeth at the table if possible; 
but if you must, do it, if you can, where you are not 
observed. 

21. If an accident of any kind soever should occur during 
dinner, the cause being who or what it may, you should nc^ 
seem to note it. 

22. Should you be so unfortunate as to overturn or to break 
anything, you would make no apology. You might let your 
regret appear in your face, but it would not be proper to put 
it in words. 



Social Duties. 



305 




Giving a Parlor Recitation. 



Social Duties. 

Man in Society is like a flow'r, 

Blown in its native bed. 'Tis there alone 

His faculties expanded in full bloom 

Shine out, there only reach their proper use. — COWPKR. 

The primal duties shine aloft like stars ' 

The charities that soothe, and heal, and bless, 

Are scatter'd at the feet of man like flowers. 

•—Wordsworth 



806 



Social Duties. 



1. Membership in Society.— Many fail to get hold of the 
idea that they are members of society. They seem to sup- 
pose that the social machinery of the world is self-operat- 
ing. They cast their first ballot with an emotion of pride, 
perhaps, but are sure to pay their first tax with a groan. 
They see political organizations in active existence; the 
parish, ana the church, and other important bodies that 
embrace in some form of society all men, are successfully 
operated; and yet these young men have no part or lot in 
the matter. They do not think of giving a day's time to 
society. 

2. Begin Early. — One of the first things a young man 
should do is to see that he is acting his part in society. 
The earlier this is begun the better. I think that the 
opponents of secret societies in colleges have failed to esti- 
mate the benefit which it must be to every member to be 
obliged to contribute to the support of his particular organ- 
ization, and to assume personal care and responsibility as a 
member. If these societies have a tendency to teach the 
lessons of which I speak, they are a blessed thing. 

3. Do Your Part. — Do your part, and be a man among 
men. Assume your portion of social responsibility, and see 
that you discharge it well. If you do not do this, then you 
are mean, and society has the right to despise you just as 
much as it chooses to do so. You are, to use a word more 
emphatic than agreeable, a sneak, and have not a claim 
upon your neighbors for a single polite word. 

4. A Whining Coniplainer.— Society, as it is called, is far 
more apt to pay its dues to the individual than the indi- 
vidual to society. Have you, young man, who are at home 
whining over the fact that you cannot get into society, done 
anything to give you a claim to social recognition? Are 
you able to make any return for social recognition and 
social privileges? Do you know anything? What kind of 
coin do you propose to pay in the discharge of the obligation 
which comes upon you with social recognition? In other 
words, as a return for what you wish to have society do for 
you, what can you do for society? This is a very important 
question — more important to you than to society. The 
question is, whether you will be a member of society by 
right, or by courtesy. If you have so mean a spirit as to be 
content to be a beneficiary of society — to receive fervors and 
to confer none — you have no business in the society to which 
you aspire. You are an exacting, conceited fellow. 

5. What Are You Good For?— Are you a good beau, and 
are you willing to make yourself useful in waiting on the 



Social Duties. 



307 



ladies on all occasions? Have you a good set of teeth, 

which you are willing to show whenever the wit of the com- 
pany gets off a good thing? Are you a true, straightforward, 
iiianiy fellow, with whose healthful and uncorrupted 
nature it is good for society to come in contact? In short, 
do you possess anything of any social value? If you do, 
and are willing to impart it, society will yield itself to your 
touch. If you have nothing, then society, as such, owes 
you nothing. Christian philanthropy may put its arm 
around you, as a lonely young man, about to spoil for want 
of something, but it is very sad and humiliating for a young 
man to be brought to that. There are people who devote 
themselves to nursing young men, and doing them good. 
If they invite you to tea, go by all means, and try your 
hand. If, in the course of the evening, you can prove to 
them that your society is desirable, you have won a point. 
Don't be patronized. 

6. The Morhld Condition. — Young men, you are apt to get 
into a morbid state of mind, which declines them to social 
intercourse. They become devoted to business with such 
delusiveness, that all social intercourse is irksome. They 
go out to tea as if they were going to jail, and drag them- 
selves to a party as to an execution. This disposition is 
thoroughly morbid, and to be overcome by going where you 
are invited, always, and with a sacrifice of feeling. 

7. The Common Blander. — Don't shrink from contact 
with anything but bad morals. Men who affect your un- 
healthy minds with antipathy, will prove themselves very 
frequently to be your best friends and most delightful com- 
panions. Because a man seems uncongenial to you, who 
are squeamish and foolish, you have no right to shun him. 
We become charitable by knowing men. We learn to love 
those whom we have despised by rubbing against them. Do 
you not remember some instance of meeting a man or 
woman whom you had never previously known or cared to 
know — an individual, perhaps, against whom you have en- 
tertained the strongest prejudices — but to whom you became 
bound by a lifelong friendship through the influence of a 
three days' intercourse? Yet, if you had not thus met, you 
would have carried through life the idea that it would be 
impossible for you to give your fellowship to such an indi- 



8. The Foolishness of Man.— God has introduced into 
human character infinite variety, and for you to say that 
you do not love and will not associate with a man because 
he is unlike you, is not only foolish but wrong. You are to 
remember that in the^ precise manner and degree in which 




808 



Social Duties. 



a man differs from you, do you differ from him; and that 
from his standpoint you are naturally as repulsive to him, as 
he, from your standpoint, is to you. So, leave ail this talk 
of congeniality to silly girls and transcendental dreamers. 

9. Do Business in Your WaT and Be Honest.— Do vour 
business in your own way, and concede to every man the 
privilege which you claim for yourself. The more you mix 
with men, the less you will be disposed to quarrel, and the 
more charitable and liberal will you become. The fact that 
you do not understand a man, is quite as likely to be our 
fault as his. There are a good many chances in favor of 
the conclusion that, if you fail to like an individual whose 
acquaintance you make it is through your own ignorance 
and illiberality. So I say, meet every man honestly ; seek to 
know him; and you will find that in those points in which 
he differs from you rests his power to instruct you, enlarge 
you, and do you good. Keep your heart open for every- 
body, and be sure that you shall have your reward. You 
shall find a jewel under the most uncouth exterior; and as- 
sociated with homeliest manners and oddest ways andug;liest 
faces, you will find rare virtues, fragrant little humanities, 
and inspiring heroisms. 

10. Without Society, Without Influence. — Again: you 
can have no influence unless you are social. An unsocial 
man is as devoid of influence as an ice-peak is of verdure. 
It is through social contact and absolute social value alone 
that you can accomplish any great social good. It is 
through the invisible lines which you are able to attach to 
the minds with which you are brought into association alone 
that you can tow society, with its deeply freighted interests, 
to the great haven of your hope. 

1 1 . The Revenge of Society.— The revenge which society 
takes upon the man who isolates himself, is as terrible as it 
is inevitable. The pride which sits alone will have the 
privilege of sitting alone in its sublime disgust till it drops 
into the grave. The world sweeps by the man, carelessly, 
remorselessly, contemptuously. He has no hold upon 
society, because he is no part of it. 

12. The Conclusion of the Whole Matter.— You cannot 
move men until you are one of them. They will not follow 
you until they have heard your voice, shaken your hand, and 
fully learned your principles and your sympathies. It 
makes no difference how much you know, or how much you 
are capable of doing. You may pile accomplishment upon 
acquisition mountain high; but if you fail to be a social man, 
you rob yourself and others of many blessings. 



Politeness, 



309 



Politeness. 

1. Beautiful Behavior.— Politeness has been described 
as the art of showing, by external signs, the internal regard 
we have, for others. But one may be perfectly polite to 
another without necessarily paying a special regard for 
him. Good manners are neither more nor less than beau- 
tiful behavior. It has been well said that "a beautiful 
form is better than a beautiful face, and a beautiful behav- 
ior is better than a beautiful form ; it gives a higher pleas- 
ure than statues or pictures— it is the finest of the fine arts." 

2. True Politeness.— The truest politeness comes of sin- 
cerity. It must be the outcome of the heart, or it will make 
no lasting impression; for no amount of polish can dispense 
with truthfulness. The natural character must be allowed 
to appear, freed of its angularities and asperities. Though 
politeness, in its best form, should resemble water — "best 
when clearest, most simple, and without taste " — yet genius 
in a man will always cover many defects of manner, and 
much will be excused to the strong and the original. With- 
out genuineness and individuality, human life would lose 
much of its interest and variety, as well as its manliness and 
robustness of character. 

3. Personality of Others. — True politeness especially 
exhibits itself in regard for the personality of others. A 
man will respect the individuality of another if he wishes to 
be respectea himself. He will have due regard for his 
views and opinions, even though they differ from his own. 
The well-mannered man pays a compliment to another, and 
sometimes even secures his respect by patiently listening to 
him. He is simply tolerant and forbearant, and refrains 
from judging harshly ; and harsh judgments of others will 
almost invariably provoke harsh judgments of ourselves. 

4. The Impolite. — The impolite, impulsive man will, 
however, sometimes rather lose his friend than his joke. 
He may surely be pronounced a very foolish person who 
secures another's hatred at the price of a moment's gratifi- 
cation. It was a saying of Burnel, the engineer — himself 
one of the kindest-natured of men — that "spite and ill- 
nature are among the most expensive luxuries m life." Dr. 
Johnson once said : " Sir, a man has no more ri^ht to say a 
rude thing to another than to knock him down. ' 

5. Feelings of Others.— Want of respect for the feelings 
pf others usually originates in selfishness, and issues in 



310 



Politeness. 



hardness and repulsiveness of manner. It may not proceed 
from malignity so much, as from want of sympathy, and 
want of delicacy— a want of that perception of, and atten- 
tion to, those little and apparently trifling things, by which 
pleasure is given or pain occasioned to others. Indeed, it 
may be said that in self-sacrifice in the ordinary intercourse 
of life, mainly consists the difference between being well 
and ill bred. Without some degree of self-restraint in so- 
ciety a man may be found almost insufferable. No one has 
pleasure in holding intercourse with such a person, and he 
is a constant source of annoyance to those about him. 

6. Disregard of Others.— Men may show their disregard 
to others in various impolite ways, as, for instance, by 
neglect of propriety in dress, by the absence of cleanliness, 
or by indulging in repulsive habits. The slovenly, dirty 
person, by rendering himself physically disagreeable, sets 
the tastes and feelings of others at defiance, and is rude and 
uncivil, only under another form. 

7. The Best School of Politeness.— The first and best 
school of politeness, as of character, is always the home, 
where woman is the teacher- The manners of society at 
large are but the reflex of the manners of our collective 
homes, neither better nor worse. Yet, with all the disadvan- 
tages of ungenial hemes, men may practice self-culture of 
manner as of intellect, and learn by good examples to cul- 
tivate a graceful and agreeable behavior towards others. 
Most men are like so many gems in the rough, which need 
polishing by contact with other and better natures, to bring 
out their full beauty and lustre. Some have but one side 
polished, sufficient only to show the delicate graining of the 
mterior; but to bring out the full qualities of the gem, needs 
the discipline of experience, and contact with the best 
examples of character in the intercourse of daily life. 

8. Captiousness of Manner. — While captiousness of 
manner, and the habit of disputing and contradicting every 
thing said, is chilling and repulsive, the opposite habit of 
assenting to, and sympathizing with, every statement made, 
or emotion expressed, is almost equally disagreeable. It is 
unmanly, and is felt to be dishonest. "It may seem diffi- 
cult," says Richard Sharp, " to steer always between blunt- 
ness and plain dealing, between merited praises and lavish- 
ing indiscriminate flattery; but it is very easy — good humor, 
kindheartedness, and perfect simplicity, being all that are 
requisite to do what is right in the right way." At the same 
time many are impolite, not because thty mean to be so, but 
because they are awkward, and perhaps know no better. 



Politeness. 



811 



9. Shy People* — Again many persons are thought to be 
stiff, reserved, and proud, when they are only shy. Shyness 
is characteristic of most people of the Teutonic race. From 
all that can be learned 01 Shakespeare, it is to be inferred 
that he was an exceedingly shy man. The manner in which 
his plays were sent into the world — for it is not known that 
he edited or authorized the publication of a single one of 
them, — and the dates at which they respectively appeared, 
are mere matters of conjecture. 

10. Self-Forgetfulness.— True politeness is best evinced 
by self-forgetfulness, or self-denial in the interest of others. 
Mr. Garfield, our martyred president, was a gentleman of 
royal type. His friend. Col. Rockwell, says of him: "In 
the midst of his suffering he never forgets others. For in- 
stance, to-day he said to me, ' Rockwell, there is a poor 
soldier's widow who came to me before this thing occurred, 
and I promised her, she should be provided for. I want you 
to see that the matter is attended to at once.' He is the 
most docile patient I ever saw." 

1 1. Its Bright Side. — We have thus far spoken of shyness 
as a defect. But there is another way of looking at it ; for 
even shyness has its bright side, and contains an element 
of good. Shy men and shy races are ungraceful and un- 
demonstrative, because, as regards society at large, they 
are comparatively unsociable. They do not possess those 
elegances of manner acquired by free intercourse, which 
distinguish the social races, because their tendency is to 
shun society rather than to seek it. They are shy in the 
presence of strangers, and shy even in their own families. 
They hide their affections under a robe of reserve, and when 
they do give way to their feelings, it is only in some very 
hidden inner chamber. And yet, the feelings are there, and 
not the less healthy and genuine, though they are not made 
the subject of exhibition to others. 

12. Worthy of Cultivation.— While, therefore, grace of 
manner, politeness of behavior, elegance of demeanor, and 
all the arts that contribute to make life pleasant and beauti- 
ful, are worthy of cultivation, it must not be at the expense 
of the more solid and enduring qualities of honesty, smcer- 
ity, and truthfulness. The fountain of beauty must be in 
the heart more than in the eye. and if it does not tend to 
produce beautiful life and noble practice, it will prove of 
comparatively little avail. Politeness of manner is not worth 
much, unless it is accompanied by polite actions. 



312 



Forms of Invitation to Dinner 



Horn to Wpite Invitations. 

Invitation to dinner conveys a great mark of respect. It is 
the highest social compliment that can be offered by one per 
son to another. 

Dinner parties rank first among all entertainments, and they 
are a great source of elevation and education. 

An invitation to dine should be promptly answered, wbeUiet 
accepted or declined. 



FORM OF INVITATION. 



THE REPLY. 



IF DECLINED. 

Some Good Beasons should be Qiven. 

^^'i. ^ety- 4^y^e^ ^ci/, 



bl4 Invitations, 

^omQ people's irnvitation. 



e ■t(^fia-'ie4. -t^tVi^ -zt^ci^/ J^-l 'f^e a^-f^d^it^. 



Acceptance. 

'>c'dd c--^a.7'3^d -/ta^d -^^c^.c-^ ^t'^t^dtt'ie 
C^Tiedi/a,-^, (Z^^iH^cA S.'/d/. 

IRcgret. 

acce/i/ CZ/^i. '^^'io-zfj^ d ^oi^/e i.^^'c/tt./t^'yb 

IRegret. 

g/ettzy^^o^ctd i^'^^edd afea4-J^t^^e/j d^e cd 

/o- a-ccit^/ CZ^^-l. ^l€>-tM'yt d i*^^i«!^^wi?^^<?^ ^ 

C^Ttedt/ezy, c3^ci-lcA 2,-/d/. 



To Meet Visiting Friends. 
Mr. and Mrs. J'ohn C. Sawyer request the pleasure of Mr^ 
W. N. Tarnutzer s company, on Friday evening, November 
tQth,from eight to eleven o' clock, to meet IVm. E?nerich. 

Bruad and Walnut Sis., Philadelphia. 



EXCURSION. 
Mr. Weber u'ould be pleased in 
have your compajtij on Thursday, 
Sept. nth, to visit the park. 

Carrinae.o irill he in icaitinq at 
tlie Coiitiwiital Hotel at 4 o'clock 
P. M. 



Continental Ilo'el. 



R. S. V.P. 



Mr. Taylor solicits the honor 
of attending Miss Lyman to the 
Opera on Ihursday evening next. 

Tuesday, Nov. 7. 
The hearer will wait for the 
answer. 



* R. S. V.P. French, "Ansuei if you please.'" 

If the parties are very intimate friends, the formal and 
ceremonious style may be dropped and that of a familiar 
letter adopted, as in the following : 



Saturday Morning, Mim 10. 
Dear fJarrie, 

We are f/oing to Irving' a 
Cliff this afternoon for wild 
flowers. Will you oblige u.i 
by making one of our little 
party? If so, we will call 
for you o,t two o'clock. Do 
go. 

Yaars affectionately, 



Belle. 



Please answer by bearer. 



My dear Sir, 

If you can come next 
Siindaj, we xkall be eijually 
glad to xee you, bid do not 
trud to any of Martin's ajh 
pomtmenfs in futures. Leg 
of lanih a.t befort, at half- 
paxt four, and the heart of 
Lamb for ever. 
Yours truly, 

C. Larnb. 
mh March, 1897. 



316 



Invitatiom. 



A MODGL IMVITATION. 

1. This model is printed in common script type in order to illustrate the 
"lest style of engraved billets. 

2. These invitations should always be printed in script type and never 
vritten except by a skillful penman. 

3. Wedding invitations are issued ten days or more before the ceremony. 

4. If an answer is expected "The favor of an answer is requested," or the 
letters R. S.V. P. should be written or printed on the bottom. 




Invitations. 



317 



Model Ceremony. 

requests the pleasure of your company at the marriage 
ceremony of her daughter 

C?^Ace 

to 

on Tuesday afternoon. May sixteenth, jSgj, at four o'clock, 
Waverly Terrace. Baltimore. 
Enclosing a reception card as follows • — 

Reeeptioi) 

On Monday, May twenty-second, 
day and evening. 

Or, "Mr. and Mrs. Henry J Clark at home at a certain time and place. 



miodel 9.— Ceremony and Reception. 




First Congregational Church, Earlville Ills., 
on Tuesday, May sixteenth, at ten o'clock. 

^ AT flOMG, 

Tuesdays and Fridays in fune, 
at the residence of Dr. Charles C. Porter, 
Seymour Avenue. 

Lebot Mather. Anna J. WiLi.iAiiai 




^ Teach your children to play with a design or purpose. 
Have them always make or construct something. 



How to Amuse Little Children. 319 




LITTLE CHILDREN. 



A busy child is always happy, and whoever possesses the 
faculty to keep a child busy has a great advantage in a house- 
hold. 

We will enumerate some very simple methods for amusing 
small children: A block of wood, a saucerful of tacks, and a 



320 



How to Amuse Little Children. 



small tack hammer will give a child more amusement than 
almost anything that can be devised. It may make a little 
noise in the house, but it will amuse the child for a long time 
every day. A pair of blunt pointed scissors, with plenty of 
newspaper pictures, or other pictures, to cut out, will give 
amusement of which children rarely ever tire. A cheap box 
of paints for coloring the pictures is an excellent diversion 
and a good practice. 

Little ones find great pleasure in stringing buttons, and they 
can soon learn to make ornamental work by sewing them on 
cloth in simple designs. 

Little girls are always delighted with a doll, but many par- 
ents make mistakes by not teaching them to dress and undress 
the dolls, and make jackets, dresses, etc., for them. For 
littl* children a heap of clean sand will afford an unend- 
ing source of amusement. Children will dig it over and over 
again, mold it in all sorts of shapes and forms, and seemingly 
never tire of it. The older children will extract pleasure from 
it also. 

Empty spools, both large and small, can be utilized to form 
many a little toy carriage, engine, and the like. A nice set of 
blocks, home made or purchased, affords one of the best amuse* 
ments for children. In order to give the best results there 
should be from twenty-five to fifty blocks, different forms are 
preferable. 

ITie simplest toys will generally afford as much amusement 
as expensive ones, and in the homes where money can purchase 
every conceivable luxury there is probably no more happl* 
ness among the children than in the humblest homes of the 
poor, if the parents will but utilize what facilities they have 
in preparing jilaythings for their children. 



Games for Children. 



321 



RING GIMES AND FROLICS FOR CHILDREN'S 
PARTIES. 

The mother or hostess who has kept herself in touch 
with the play life of her child, and has assisted it rightly, 
need not fear to undertake the direction of such plays 
and games as are suited to make a child's birthday party 
a happy and long-remembered holiday. 

The simple games are always best — the games you and 
your children have played over and over again. Old 
games, like "Blind Man's Buff." "Puss-in-the-Corner," 
"London Bridge," and their like, never seem to lose 
their interest. Any game which, like "Thumbs Up," has 
been played by children since the days of Nero must, in- 
deed, be worth playing today. Then, again, kinder- 
garten literature is full of new and delightful suggestions 
for play and songs, so thajt mothers have no end of 
resources for entertaining their own children and their 
child friends. 

Game of Flo frers.— Children never tire of ring games. 

They like the simple ones best — those that do not tax 
the memory to any great extent. They prefer something 
with a catching swing in the rhythm, carrying the same 
words through many verses, with just enough verbal 
change to indicate the progress of the game. 

The game of flowers is simple and sweet. It is played 
similar to "London Bridge." Two children stand opposite 
to each other and raise their joined hands. Those forming 
the ring pass under, while all keep saying or singing, 
suiting the action to the words they sing: 

"We're looking about for a daffodil, 

A daffodil, a daffodil. 
We're looking about for a daffodil, 
We've found one here." 
At the word "here" the raised arms come down and 
inclose the head of the child who happens at that 
moment to be passing underneath their hands. Then all 
sing: 

"We find one here; we find one here; 
We're looking about for a daffodil. 
And find one here." 
"Daffodil" now takes the place of one of the children 
who caught him or her, then calls out "Buttercup." The 
children all understand that buttercup, instead of daffodil, 
is the word, so they make the lines: 

"We're looking about for a buttercup, 
A buttercup, a buttercup," etc. 

21 



322 



Games for Children. 



The leader may hold a bouquet and give to each 
child the flower chosen. 

The next child, "Buttercup," being duly "found," takes 
the place of "Daffodil,"' and the child who has held 
that place goes into the ring. The newcomer calls out 
the name of some flower, like bright blue-bell, daisy 
flower or mignonette, and substituting the word, they 
sing as before. Each child tries to be ready with the 
name of some favorite flower, and the game may close 
when each child flower has been "found." 

Fox. — A game in which the children can run is always 
a favorite. "Fox" is another ring play, so easy that 
the smaller children can play it without help. One of the 
children "fox" stays outside the ring and slyly slaps the 
shoulder of one of the children. "Fox" runs to the left, 
the child to the right. They meet, pass each other going 
at full speed around the ring. The one who gets back 
to the "den" (the place in the ring where the child was 
standing) may hold that place, and the other must be 
the fox and try a race with some other child. 

"Jingle Bells" is another frolic which pleases little 
ones. Let mamma or the hostess harness up the children 
for a "team." They have a string of small bells around 
their necks, and a cambric or tarletan rope is used for the 
"tackle" — the children taking hold of it by twos, ex- 
cept the last in line, who acts as "driver." The pianist 
plays the well-known college glee, "Jingle bells, jingle 
bells, jingle all the way," and the children trot away at 
a merry pace. The leaders hurry on, making devious 
turns to right and left, supposably through snowdrifts 
and over high hills and down in deep valleys. The 
children sing the chorus, and the trip proves so delightful 
that they are never ready to stop ^until a very long 
journey has been made. 

The above games may all be successfully played by 
a large party of children. 

Whatever new plays the children may learn they dearly 
love the old, old games: 

"Buffy" and "Puss" and the "Needle's eye," 
[Tag" and "Thimble" and "Halt! I spy," 
"Ring-round-a-rosy," and "Making a cheese," 
"Bean-porridge-hot" and "Slave, on your knees!" 
"Man on your castle," "Stage-coach" and "Gool," 
Noon-hour games at the old village school. 

Fun with Peanuts.— A peanut hunt is lots of fun for an 



Games for Children. 



323 



evening party. The hostess hides peanuts in all sorts 
of queer places about the room, sometimes putting two 
or three nuts in the same place. Then she provides each 
of her guests with a little basket tied with gay ribbons, 
and then the "hunt" begins. Sometimes a march is 
played, and the hunters must keep step to the music, stop- 
ping when it stops, and starting again when it starts. After 
a certain time the finds are compared. The one who 
has the largest number wins the first prize, while the 
"booby" prize is fittingly awarded to the one having the 
fewest. 

Some other trials that are great sport are often in- 
troduced. One is to see who can carry the most peanuts 
in one hand from one table to another. A boy ought 
to win this. Forty-two is a good number. 

Children's March.— By all means let the guests be punc- 
tual, SO' that all the children may be ready to join in the 
opening march. Let a good pianist lead off with familiar 
airs, and, if the hostess will remember to provide a rope 
made out of strips of cambric or .tarletan lightly twisted, 
the children may all grasp it with the right hand; then 
walking, say two feet apart, and keeping the rope mildly 
taut, they have but to follow their leader or the one just 
in front, and a march with many turnings will not confuse 
the little ones in the least. A very simple and pretty 
march for young children is formed as follows: Let the 
children march in a circle six times around the room; 
then diagonally across the room by four ways, the path 
along each side of the room joining the four diagonals; 
then in serpentine paths from north to south six times 
across, again from east to west the same. March by nar- 
rowing circles to the center of the room; then, passing to 
the left, retrace directly the same path until all are led to 
form again a full circle about the outer edge of the room. 
By turning to right and left the children may march to 
form scallops reaching around the entire room. The 
march closes with a general hand-clapping accompani- 
ment to a lively tune, the rope being dropped upon the 
floor. 

The hostess who entertains a large number of little 
people needs the help of a half dozen grown-up girls to 
start the march and games and assist the smaller children 
to join in them. They are also needed during the re- 
freshment hour. 

As a rule invited children should not profifer birthday 



324 



Games ^or Children. 



gifts, unless their families happen to be relatives or partic- 
ularly intimate friends; the privilege of gift-making be- 
longs to home friends. 

A QUOTATION HUNT. 

This game is best described by one who was present and 
enjoyed its pleasures. 

Upon entering, by invitation, a friend's parlor one even- 
ing last June, I was puzzled by the sight of the numerous 
little slips of paper that seemed to be everywhere — pinned 
to curtain, chair, mantel lambrequin and cushions, over 
table and piano cover, on p cture-frames and on bric-a- 
brac the little slips found lodgment. Presently the guests 
arrived, and our hostess informed us that on each slip was 
written one-quarter of a familiar quotation. We might 
pick up any slip we wished and proceed to find the rest 
of the quotation of which it formed a part. We were 
allowed to ask for parts of quotations, the one asked being 
obliged to hand over the slip asked for if he or she hap- 
pened to have it. At a given signal we started and a lively 
time ensued, the object being to see who could match the 
greatest number of quotations. I first picked up a slip 
on which I read, "to see oursels," I found "Oh! wad sae 
power" in the hands of one of the company. "The giftie 
gie us" had taken refuge in the corner of a white picture- 
frame, and "as ithers see us" was nestled comfortably in 
a fold of a portiere. 

The prizes were appropriate, but inexpensive, the most 
elaborate one being a dainty booklet for the most success- 
ful searcher, while the member of the company who had 
been least successful received a pair of steel-rimmed spec- 
tacles, to which was attached a note expressing the hope 
that they would aid in future searches. 

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS. 

Not long since I accepted an invitation to spend the 
evening at a neighbor's. At eight o'clock we found our- 
selves in the pleasant parlor of our hostess. In the course 
of an hour other guests came until we numbered fifteen. 

The two young ladies, our hostesses, stated that a num- 
ber of distinguished guests had been invited, but being 
unable to come had sent their cards to represent them. 
The younger sister then passed a tray of cards, on which 
were the names of friends who could not be with us. 
Each one present had the privilege of drawing a card, but 



Games for Children. 



325 



was not allowed to look at the name on it. The elder 
sister stood, paper of pins in hand, ready to fasten the card 
on the back of the lady who had drawn it. Thus each of 
us carried about, not on our faces, but on our backs, the 
characters we were to personate, nor could we find out, 
except by discreet questioning, whom we were represent- 
ing. 

The remark that some of us were dead, some living, 
some real and some fictitious, set our brains in a whirl. 
One lady, queenly in her bearing, who was labeled "Queen 
Victoria," in due time discovered her identity. The Duke 
of York, Gladstone, Lord Tennyson and his "Maud" were 
present. One lady, to her own satisfaction, turned out to 
be Susan B. Anthony. Even the Infanta and her Duke 
were with us, and also Mr. and Mrs. Potter Palmer and 
Miss America. Peggotty and Barkis had great difficulty 
in finding out who they were, and though both were 
"willin' " could not guess their identity. Adam himself 
was there and his dear Eve, wnom he found after many 
trials. 

It can be easily imagined what funny blunders were 
made until we learned what names we bore, and that there 
was no possible chance for stififness among the guests 
can be readily surmised. 

Refreshments were served in another room, where the 
English ladies and gentlemen sat at one small table, the 
Infanta and Duke of Veragua at another, Adam and Eve 
at a third. Sweet peas were scattered loosely over each 
table. Ice cream and cake were served and later coffee. 
Nothing could have been simpler nor more expressive 
of genuine hospitality than this charming and unique en- 
tertainment of distinguished people. 

CROSS QUESTIONS AND CROOKED ANSWERS. 

The company sit around, and each one whispers a ques- 
tion to his neighbor at the right, and then each one whis- 
pers an answer; so that each answers the question pro- 
pounded by some other player, and of the purport of 
which he is, of course, ignorant. Then every player has 
to recite the question he received from one player and the 
answer he got from the other, and the ridiculous incon- 
gruity of these random cross questions and crooked an- 
swers will frequently excite a good deal of sport. One, 
for instance, may say, "I was asked 'Are you going to- 
morrow.'" and the answer is, "It is in the cupboard." An- 
other may declare, "What had you for dinner?" and the 



326 



Games for Children. 



answer is, "Sleeve and cuff buttons." A third, "I was 
asked, 'Did you see the carriage pass?' " and the answer 
is, "He came yesterday!" 

TO PLACE WATER IN A DRINKING GLASS UPSIDE 
DOWN. 

Procure a plate, a tumbler, and a small piece of tissue 
or silver paper. Set the plate on a table, and pour water 
into it up to the first rim. Now very slightly crumple up 
the paper, and place it in the glass; then set it on fi"e. 
When it is burned out, or rather just as the last flame 
disappears, turn the glass quickly upside down into the 
water. Astonishing! the water rushes with great vio- 
lence into the glass! Now you are satisfied that water can 
be placed in a drinking glass upside down. Hold the 
glass firm, and the plate also. You can now reverse the 
position of the plate and glass, and thus convince the 
most skeptical of the truth of your pneumatic experiment 
Instead of burning paper a little brandy or spirits of wine 
can be ignited in the glass; the result of its combustion 
being invisible, the experiment is cleaner. 

GUESSING. 

Guessing is a game that whiles away many an hour 
pleasantly, as the children gather around the kitchen fire 
while the evening work is being done. One of the party 
thinks of an object and gives the first letter of its name. 
For instance, one thinks of a ship and says, "I have thought 
of something and it begins with S. ' The rest then question 
him and he must answer as best he can unless the question 
comes too close and he declares it would be "telling." They 
may ask: What color is it? Is it something made, or does it 
grow? Has it legs? Does it move about, or is it stationary? 
Is it vegetable, animal or mineral? Have we one? Of course 
some will be easily guessed and others will tax the ingenu- 
ity of the best guessers. In a compound word the first 
letter of each word should be given. 

Mothers with the little ones troopmg around them can 
make the evening exceedingly pleasant and something to 
look back upon with pleasure in after years. 



I 

I 

BOOK III. I 




THERE IS NO PLACE LIKE HOME. 

(featheb youE nest well.) 



THE HOUSEKEEPER. 
HOME ADORNMENTS. 
THE BEDROOM. 
THE DINING-ROOM. 

THE KITCHEN AND KITCHEN UTENSILS. 
FAMILY RECEIPTS. 

827 



J 



328 



The Housekeeper. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER. 

A woman who is at the head of a household has vast 
power and responsibility placed in her hands. It rests 
with her to make the home a place where there shall be 
gained rest and strength for the battle of life; a place in- 
expressibly dear to each member of the family, where all 
shall feel that there is perfect freedom, yet where there is 
also perfect order. Some are born housekeepers, while 
others must work hard to train themselves for their many 
duties. But it matters not whether one be a trained or a 
natural housekeeper; if the work be done well and lov- 
ingly, the spirit of the head of the house pervades every 
part. One cannot always define it, but one certainly feels 
it. Love, sympathy and charity must be there, else the 
best appointed household will fail to be a home for its 
members. The housekeeper must be patient, unselfisn and 
industrious. 

Reward. — Her reward will be the consciousness that her 
duty has been well done, and the possession of the love 
and respect of her family and friends. To my mind there 
is no position in the world of higher importance, or in 
which a woman can do more good. 

Exacting. — The occupation of a housekeeper is most 
exacting. In nothing else does there seem to be the ne- 
cessity for such varied knowledge. Even under the most 
favorable circumstances the position is at times exceed- 
ingly trying. What must it be, then, when undertaken 
without the least preparation? The perplexity, disap- 
pointment and mortification through which the inexperi- 
enced housekeeper passes are both disheartening and de- 
moralizing. 

Method.— One of the secrets of the ample leisure many 
housekeepers have is the system of methods adopted. A 
day for everything and everything on its day. Monday — 
Wash day will leave time to clean the bath room, stairs 
and laundry. Tuesday — After ironing is finished the linen - 
closet can be cleaned and the clothes folded and replaced. 
Wednesday — For cleaning silverware and putting the 
china closet in order, repapering pantry shelves and with 
the midweek change of table linen, the dining room might 
receive special attention. Thursday — Sweeping bed-rooms, 
and while this is being done it is a good plan to air all 
the bedding thoroughly; this adds greatly to the freshness 
of the nicely swept and well dusted sleeping apartments. 
Friday— Sweep the parlors, reception and sitting rooms, 



The Housekeeper. 



3S8 



have the rugs well cleaned and windows and mirrors pol- 
ished. Saturday — Bed linen and table linen changed, tow- 
els and soiled clothing gathered, baking done and special 
preparation made for the day of rest. This will afford the 
satisfaction of having conducted a well ordered system and 
will leave some time each day for reading, sewing, visiting 
and resting. 

A MODEL HOUSEWIFE. 

In the first place she is the most thoroughly cheerful 
and happy-looking woman you will meet in a day's travel; 
and although she is thirty-five years old she does not look 
thirty. This is because she never allows the petty cares 
of housekeeping to worry and plow lines across her face. 
She does one thing at a time, never making the error of 
undertaking a dozen duties at once. 

Good Judgment. — The model housewife keeps a scrupu- 
lously neat home, but in no room is comfort sacrificed 
for the sake of appearance. She has neither too much 
furniture nor bric-a-brac. She dresses her children neatly 
but plainly. 

Agreeable and Systematic. — This very sensible woman 
is a loving wife and agreeable companion to her husband. 
She knows how to save time and thus finds opportunity 
to read, and is able to discuss topics of interest with her 
husband in the evening by the fireside. She is a gentle 
mother to her little ones, and when she says "no" she 
keeps her word. She is never impatient with the baby 
when he is sleepy and clings to her skirts. Instead of 
spanking him, she takes the tired little form to her arms 
and rocks it to sleep. 

Taste and Sympathy. — Her husband is not very wealthy 
and she does not strain the last nerve to dress as well as 
her more wealthy neighbors, but her taste is so correct 
that these same neighbors envy her stylish appearance. 
She is also a neighbor and does not gossip. If there is 
sickness she is willing to aid the suffering, and she docs 
not forget the old and poor in the neighborhood. 

HOW TO MANAGE TO BE HAPPY. 

During the early years of married life many are often 
very unhappy, and the cares of housekeeping seem a 
burden greater than they can bear. 

Simplification is the first step toward nappiness. In 
furnishing a house try not to have anything too good 
to use. If you can afford to keep but one servant, dis- 
22 



330 



The Housekeeper. 



pense with elaborate draperies, brass and bric-a-brac, the 
care of which means too much work for one pair of 
hands. Do not crowd your rooms with useless little 
tables and delicately-covered furniture, but rely upon sun- 
shine, easy chairs, an open fire and a few good pictures 
to make home charming. 

IndiTiduality. — One mistake is common to young 
homemakers. Through imitation they make all manner 
of domestic misfits. When calling on a friend they 
mentally compare her household plenishings with their 
own, and wonder how they can create, from limited 
resources, the things of beauty by which they are sur- 
rounded. 

They do not like to invite to their plain house the 
friend who has married a merchant prince, because they 
fear she would miss the luxuries of her costly environ- 
ment. They have no Persian rugs, no Satsuma teacups, 
no Oriental hangings to show her, and the fact both 
distresses and mortifies them. 

They try, therefore, with a limited income, to follow 
in her footsteps. They exchange the cozy house, on 
the unfashionable street, for what the agent called a 
"desirably-located flat. 

They give up the happiness and comfort of their fami- 
lies for door-openers and electric bells. The fretfulness 
of the children, who suffered from the substitution of 
modern conveniences for fresh air and sunshine, the 
complaints of the maid who could hardly turn around 
in the tiny kitchen, and the efifort to live beyond means, 
make them irritable and unhappy. At last they agree 
with the clever woman who declared that there was such 
a thing as sacrificing good living to bad frescoes. 

There is a homely saying to this effect: "Cut your 
coat according to your cloth." An experienced house- 
keeper says: 

That is what I now try to do. I copy no one, but 
keep house with reference to viy income, and the 
needs of my husband, my children. The wonderful 
methods which others pursue, and the achievements of 
my neighbors no longer make me envious, or arouse emu- 
lation. In acting well my part, I find satisfaction and 
success. It used to try me greatly to have the shades 
of my mother-in-law, and the aunts evoked, who in their 
day were notable housewives. I failed utterly until I gave 
up trying to adapt the ways and means of the past to 
the necessities of the present. You cannot successfully 



The Housekeeper. 



331 



conduct a modern by applying to it the metliods of the 
past generation. This I ascertained distinctly and fully. 

Training Children.— I train my children to helpfulness, 
and teach the boys, as well as the girls, to sweep, dust, 
mend and care for their clothing. Their is nothing un- 
manly in a boy learning to do those things which will 
make him comfortable and independent when away from 
home. 

It is surprising how greatly my labors are lightened 
by their assistance, and how much more unselfish and 
considerate the children are growing under the disci- 
pline. 

Slave of Circumstances,— It used to trouble me very 
much if anything interfered with the routine of the 
household. I worshiped days and seasons, and was de- 
termined that no meal in my house should be a movable 
feast. As a consequence, I became the unhappy slave 
of my own laws. 

Method a Servant. — Now, method is my servant, not my 
master. I try to curb an abnormal appetite for dirt, 
and overcom.e the domestic sin of excessive cleanliness. 
My home may not be so immaculate in each minute 
and unseen part, but it is a pleasanter place to live in. 

liooks and Music. — In all my economy of time and 
money, I leave a margin for the higher life. I buy and 
read the best books, and hear good music. Every day 
I make a point of going to my room, lying down and 
resting mind and body. This brief withdrawal from 
the thick of the family life keeps me fresh for the even- 
ing, when my husband and children naturally expect to 
find me, in some degree, companionable. I make it my 
point to save something for myself for those who make 
my home as well as for the things which make it. 

Persistent Cheerfulness. — The crowning grace of the 
home, in my opinion, is persistent cheerfulness, and I try 
to see the funny side of every annoyance. My children are 
often ill, but I discourage anxious inquiries after the health 
of the members of the family, believing that it is possible 
to talk yourself and others into any number of diseases. 

The breakfast table is not a bulletin board for the curing 
of horrible dreams and depressing symptoms, but the 
place where a bright key-note for the day is struck. The 
supper table is not made a battle-field, but a pleasing 
panorama of what has occurred during the day in the 
outer world. 



332 



The Housekeeper. 



Forgetting the Disagreeable.— I make a habit of for- 
getting disagreeable things as quickly as possible. One 
great factor in this result is never talking about them. 
I keep the genie in the bottle, for the grievances that are 
aired grow with every airing. In dealing with Bridget's 
faults it does not yield me any moral support to dwell 
on the atrocious acts of her predecessor. 

Leaving the past to bury its dead I live simply in the 
present, trying to take no anxious thoughts for the mor- 
row, thereby exhausting in advance my nervous force. So, 
"I build a fence of loving trust 

About today; 
I fill it full of happy work. 
And therein stay." 
These Three. — Simplification, individuality and persistent 
cheerfulness make it possible for a woman to keep gray hairs 
and wrinkles at bay, and she can manage to be happy, 
though a busy housewife. 

GOOD RULES FOR THE MISTRESS. 

1. When engaging a servant be careful to explain her 
work to her, and let her understand that the work must 
be done in your way and not in the way of any former 
mistress she may have had, and this explanation must be 
made so that it shall not reflect upon the routine of any 
other household. 

2. Try to arrange the housework so that each servant 
may have an opportunity to attend church on Sunday. 

3. When your servants do well encourage them to do 
better by a few words of praise. 

4. Do not allow them to have visitors until after certain 
hours in the evening. 

5. Give your orders for the day to tl e cook as early 
in the morning as possible. 

6. Insist upon being informed when anything is broken 
or lost. 

7. See that the chambermaid is wearing a clean apron 
while making the beds, and that she knocks at the bed- 
room doors before entering. 

8. Order the maid who opens the door, not to leave 
visitors standing in the hall, nor to give parcels to stran- 
gers without previous instruction. 

9. When you reprove, do so firmly and decidedly. 

10. Only allow your rules to be broken once; let dis- 
missal, witn customary notice, follow the second offense. 



The Housekeeper. 



333 



11. Retain your temper under all circumstances. 

12. Insist upon the punctuality of the family as well as 
upon the punctuality of the cook. 

13- Be Kmc! to your servants when they are ill, and 
thoughtful of them always; in nine cases out oi ten the 
considerate mistress will be rewarded by faithful service. 

14. Pay your servants' wages regularly. Do not allow 
them to go out without first obtaining your permission. 

GOOD RULES FOR THE SERVANT. 

1. Be punctual. Keep your brooms, brushes, dusters, 
pots, kettles and pans clean and sweet. Obey your 
mistress in every particular; go to her when you are in 
doubt. If your fellow servants shirk their duties, and their 
doing so affects your work, take the first opportunity 
you have of explaining this to your mistress, being careful 
not to exaggerate. 

2. Do not do rough work while wearing a white apron. 
Have large gingham aprons for such purposes, and keep 
your white one hanging where it can be easily gotten at. 

3. Never give away anything that belongs to your 
mistress without first obtaining her permission. 

4. If you wish to invite a friend to e"t with you, first 
obtain permission. 

_ 5. During the day, when opportunity offers, devote a 
little time to the care of your bedroom; see that it is kept 
well aired. 

6. Do not take hold of the pots and pans with your 
apron; it is a dirty and dangerous habit. 

7. If you break anything tell your mistress at once. 

8. Let your working dresses be made of material that 
will wash. 

9. Retire early; rise early. 

10. Be truthful. 

11. If you have a lover, confide in your mistress and 
obtain her permission to have him spend bis evenings 
with you; do not meet him on the street, or try to 
"smuggle" him into the kitchen. 

12. Be careful of all that is intrusted to you while in 
service; when the day comes for you to leave it for a 
home of your own, you will find any lessons of economy 
and neatness that you may have learned very valuable, and 
any good habit that you may have formed very helpful. 



334 



The Housekeeper. 




THE SERVANT QUESTION. 

The vexed question of "domestic service" is a serious 
one, and like its companion problem, the "labor question," 
its solution can hardly be satisfactorily accomplished in 
this country, where our servants and our "lower classes" 
are made up of aliens, many of whom are untrained and 
unfitted for the positions which they undertake to fill. 

American-Born Women instinctively object to domestic 
service as a means of livelihood. They are usually fairly 
well educated, as our excellent public school system gives 
opportunities to all. The American girl would do any- 
thing rather than domestic service; she considers it menial 
and beneath her, and so, when she starts out for herself 
in the world, she undertakes type-writing, or telegraphy, 
or clerking in an office, or she becomes an amanuensis or 
a factory hand, or does everything else rather than the 
work for which she is thoroughly well equipped both by 
experience and inheritance. It is a very rare thing to 
find an American girl in service; and when she is dis- 
covered, what a joy she is to the finder, for we are sure 
we have in our house honesty, energy, and often great 
capability. 



The Honsekeepe7\ 



385 



Foreigners. — It would seem that no honest work faith- 
fully performed could be beneath any one, and the do- 
mestic servant in America has many privileges which a 
clerk or a factory girl cannot enjoy. However, this is not a 
popular opinion, and so our domestics are mostly foreign- 
ers, who come to this country only to make money, who 
look upon us merely as a means to that end, and the 
sooner that end is accomplished the better for both of 
us. 

Practical Knowledge. — If in the elaborate scheme of a 
daughter's education a little time were given to a prac- 
tical knowledge of household affairs, it would be found of 
inestimable service all through her life. Possibly the fault 
of which we complain does not lie so much with the 
servant as it does with the mistress. How can we expect 
our maids to know more than we know ourselves? They 
are very much like children, and they soon discover our 
ignorance, ana impose upon us. Try to teach a child any- 
thing, and see how utterly impossible it is unless you your- 
self know thoroughly the subject you are trying to impart. 

Lack of System. — Another great trouble with the aver- 
age young housekeeper is lack of system. Her education 
is doubtless at fault in this, and she has never learnt busi- 
ness principles. But one's house must be run with method 
if one wishes to run it satisfactorily. Inexperienced women 
make demands which are often quite impossible to be com- 
plied with, not realizing what work their domestics are 
doing at the moment, which must be neglected if their 
request is regarded. 

Wlio is Responsible? — There are nearly three million 
women working for their living in this country, and of this 
three million a full third are in domestic service. And, oh, 
sorrow and sharne to the housekeeper! the ranks of the 
fallen, whom the charitable women go down into the slums 
to reform, receive, according to statistics, more than half 
their recruits from domestic servants. Why leave your 
home to go and rescue these after they have sinned? Why 
not make sure first that all those who serve you are 
guarded b. the strong aegis of your protection from this 
sorrowful fate; are being led upward by your example; 
are receiving your full sympathy and care? Surely it is 
more important to prevent the fall than to rescue the peni- 
tent after it. Does it not behoove you to examine your- 
self, your life, your influence, with the most searching 
care, to divine what it is that makes the service of ladies 



336 



The Housekeeper. 



peculiarly demoralizing to those who serve them? — such a 
terrible thought! 

The Mistress. — It is evident that the solution of the 
problem is largely in the hands of the mistress of the 
house. The servant is capable of feelings, sensibilities, am- 
bitions and hopes as well as the mistress. Let the attitude 
of the mistress of the home change and the whole ques- 
tion will necessarily change. 

A Friendly Interest can always safely be shown 4o 
those who serve us. While familiarity of intercourse is de- 
moralizing, it is as truly work as well worth doing as any 
done in the slums to show sympathy in trouble, help and 
kindness in sickness, and interest in their interests about 
their own family and friends. There at once springs up a 
different spirit in those who serve us when they learn that 
we are really interested in their welfare. 

The Servant's Room.— It pays to make the servant's 
room as cozy and home-like as possible. A very little 
money and pains make all the difference between a dull, 
uninviting den and a dainty, pleasant chamber — curtains 
and carpets past their wear in the lower rooms, or if newly 
furnishing, why, cheap drugget and a bit of cheap muslin, 
make them homelike. A few cheap pictures, perhaps a 
shelf for a bright, innocent novel or two and last month's 
magazines. We know from our experience how much we 
value our own special corner, which is ours alone. 

"Like Mistress; Like Maid" is an old, but true, say- 
ing pains to teach the easiest and most skillful means of ac- 
the age, but frequently may be found nearer home. Tak- 
ing pains to teach the easiest and most skillful means of ac- 
complishing necessary work. Helping each to make his 
work an art rather than a drudgery. Not afraid of quiet 
blame, but not sparing either of due thanks and praise for 
service well done. It is not well to say. Why should I 
thank her? she is paid to do this. No money can pur- 
chase or pay for that cheerful, proud, affectionate help, that 
loyal devotion to the household interests, which some 
wise housewives receive by means of friendly gratitude 
and recognition. Such a mistress and such servants are 
banded together to produce and preserve that nearest like- 
ness on earth to the dreams of heaven — a home. 



Home Adornments. 



337 



HOME ADORNMENTS. 

There are in the United States 11,483,318 dwellings in 
which 12,690,152 families live. Imagine, if you please, 
the variety of scenes from the stately mansion of the 
rich to the hovel of those in abject poverty. We Amen 
cans too often think that wealth is all that is needed 
to produce a home. This is a great mistake. There 
are many model homes found where great self denial 
is necessary to "make ends meet" and there are many 
families of wealth in which the true spirit of the home 
is not found. 

A True Home. — A furnished house is not always a 
home. Carpets and furniture may be of the latest styles 
and costly and yet the home may be anything but "home- 
like." 

Indiridiiality. — It is only when a house has been occu- 
pied long enough to have an individuality imparted to 
it by its occupants when a vast number of little articles 
suggested by the daily wants of the family have been 
made that the rooms have the aspect of home. Many of 
the articles cannot be bought nor are they expensive, but 
the wide-awake housekeeper will ever be on the alert and 
will supply these little conveniences that make the home 
attractive to its occupants. 

Home Decorations.— The so-called esthetic craze and 
decorative fads are no longer looked upon as objection- 
able features, but are recognized necessities of the home 
life. The unadorned home is now the exception; and 
while at one time the American housewife was criticised 
because of over-decoration, it is noticeable that even 
the average home is showing how rapidly the masses 
are being educated to appreciate the truly artistic in 
home adornment. Nor does a slender purse debar one 
from possessing many decorative trifles. We cannot 
all possess Sevres and Royal Worcester, and costly 
paintings may be beyond us; still, there is no excuse for 
filling our rooms with inartistic crockery and "chromatic 
chromos" until they look like a "teastore arrang-ed by 
an earthquake." The main thing is to buy with taste 
and discretion, and to ornament and arrange according to 
our best artistic lights. 

Well-Chosen Bric-a-Brac.— Nothing can equal a few 
well-chosen bits of bric-a-brac in giving character to a 
room. Needle-work must have its place, but it is not 



338 



Home Adornments, 



alone sufficient for adornment; besides, we do not all 
possess either time or skill for this sort of decoration. 

There is much satisfaction in possessing a few bits 
of real china, or a slender vase of undoubted Venetian 
glass; but if our purses are shallow, we can satisfy our 
artistic longings in some very pretty imitations. Doubt- 
less we should draw John Ruskin's thunders on our de- 
voted heads by expressing any delight in make-believes, 
but often enough there is little difference, save in the 
price. 

Newly Married People.— As a rule, newly-married peo- 
ple have a good many trifles in ornamental china, in the 
way of wedding presents, either artistic or the reverse, 
as the donor's taste may incline. So the only thing 
the possessors have to decide upon is the question of 
arrangement. In a well-filled modern house there is 
usually a cabinet or over-mantel above the fireplace, es- 
pecially in a well-appointed dining-room, and this is the 
best position for showing off china. If an over-mantel 
cabinet is beyond one's reach, the next best thing is a 
drapery falling from a curtain pole at the back of the 
mantel; a continuation of this forms the mantel scarf. 
This is especially desirable when the wall is light-colored. 
A dark felt or plush curtain of harmonious shade forms 
such an admirable background. Of course, this is in- 
tended chiefly for throwing into relief the china on 
the mantel, though it has a decorative effect on the whole 
room. 

Wall Decorations.— We can obtain very good effects 
with china plates or placques as wall decoration in any 
nook or corner where they may be comparatively iso- 
lated. They lose something of their effect when mingled 
with a lot of pictures. A very striking over-mantel decora- 
tion may be made where the chimney piece projects from 
the wall by putting a curtain rod up against the ceiling 
and dropping a curtain from this to the mantel. On this 
curtain drapery arrange china plates that are handsomely 
decorated, fastened, of course, by invisible placque hang- 
ers. The curtain may be felt, plush or any of the artistic 
draperies in vogue; it need not necessarily be expensive, 
for the best effects, appropriateness and artistic blend- 
ing with the wall coloring is of first importance. 

Another form of the same idea is to have a beveled 
mirror the width of the mantel, and about two feet 
high, put at the back to reflect the mantel ornaments, 



Home Adornments. 



339 



with the curtain descenaing from the ceiling to the mir- 
ror. The mantel drapery should match the curtain. 

Furniture. — With the walls, ceilings, floors and windows 
of our house beautiful properly treated, it would indeed 
seem an easy task to supply just the right kind and 
amount of furniture — if only the purse were well filled. 
Not so. No amount of money can produce a beautiful, 
satisfactory and elevating home unless a clear and culti- 
vated mind directs its expenditures. 

Arrangement. — The style and air most conducive to 
the beauty and comfort of a room is in no small degree 
dependent upon the arrangement of its furniture. Any 
number of suggestions, but few explicit directions, for 
producing the desired results can be given; for while cer- 
tain rules must be adhered to, success is far less depend- 
ent upon technical knowledge than upon the artistic sense 
and cleverness of the woman who produces them. 

Simplicity. — That "simplicity is three-fourths of beauty" 
is never more apparent than in furniture. Indeed, simplic- 
ity of design is the essence of good furniture. More than 
this, while furniture good in design, material and work- 
manship is seldom low-priced, it is always beautiful and 
durable, and it is unquestionably wiser, even for those 
who must economize closely, to have rooms scantily sup- 
plied with furniture that is really good than filled with the 
"regulation" number of half-made, showy pieces. Ex- 
pensiveness is not an essential factor in achieving artistic 
results. With taste, judgment, a well-defined plan, pa- 
tience and time you are sure to attain success. 

Folly of Fashion. — Fashion is responsible for any 
amount of bad furniture. For the wealthy it is Marie 
Antoinette and other period furniture, or Turkish, Japa- 
nese and other ornate eastern styles, none of which are 
adapted to our habits and surroundings. 

Size and Uses of Room. — The size and uses of a room 
must determine the kind and amount of furniture to be 
put into it. Furniture should be beautiful in itself, and 
beautiful as considered in connection with everything else 
in the room. A piece of furniture good in design, mate- 
rial and workmanship is always beautiful when appropri- 
ately used. Let use be the first consideration. Make no 
purchases hastily. Have a definite idea of what is both 
suitable and good; of the needs of the room and the sum 
you can afford to expend. Prefer hard wood and good 
workmanship every time to cheap decorations. If you 



940 



Ho7ne Adormnenls. 



must economize closely, let fashion be neither the first, 
second nor third consideration. 

The Mistress. — The individuality of the mistress should 
be plainly manifest in her pa-^lor. Give little attention 
to parlors in general, and none to the opinion of Mrs. 
Grundy. After arranging the larger pieces of furniture in 
the most favorable positions, place the chairs at whatever 
angle best conforms to the remaining space and tends to 
heighten the general effect. If in doubt as to ho-w this 
should be done, study the arrangement of the chairs the 
next time they are vacated by some of your "dear con- 
genial friends," and see if you cannot catch the air of ease 
and sociability they carry. 

Avoid Reg-ularity. — Avoid apparent regularity. Don't 
think because you place a sofa across one corner of a 
room that you must treat any or all the other corners 
similarly. While a scheme of arrangement is essential, 
care must be taken to conceal it. Large pieces of furni- 
ture are not appropriate for small rooms; nor is any piece 
seen at its best unless there is room for its individuality 
to assert itself. In a library that is only used as a reading 
and writing room, and in a dining-room, the table is 
properly placed in the center of the floor, but not in any 
other apartment. A dining-room side-table should be 
placed in a corner conveniently near the pantry door. 
Table for card-receiver in main hall should stand conven- 
iently near the front door or the entrance to the parlor. 
If the hall is used merely as an entrance, stand the chair 
or chairs against the wall. If used as a waiting or recep- 
tion room, treat in a less formal manner. 

Sitting-Room. — In the sitting or living room the com- 
fort and convenience of the family must decide the ar- 
rangement of furniture. 

Bedroom. — In the ordinary bedroom, windows are the 
only means of ventilation, and the location of these should 
go far to determine the most desirable place for the bed- 
stead. Placing the head of a bedstead against the wall 
causes little discomfort to the occupants, but there should 
be a free circulation of air on all the other sides. Put the 
wash stand in the most inconspicuous corner, and conceal 
with a large screen, if the room is large enough to do so 
without making a nuisance of the latter. 

Kitchen Furniture. — Kitchen, pantry and laundry furni- 
ture should be arranged in the way that best conduces to 
the convenience and comfort of those who labor in them. 



Home Adornnunts. 



341 



To save time and strength is to be wise as well as eco- ' 

nomical. i 

Fancy Articles.— A great many think that economy can- ^ 
not be used in making fancy articles. Many pretty things, 

both useful and ornamental, may be made at very little ■ 
expense. Art in every form, and particularly in house 

decoration, is seemingly carrying everything before it. j 

Dried grasses, leaves, and berries are much used in dec- ] 

orating fancy baskets. \ 

Pot-pourri of Roses.— Gather the rose petals in the early \ 

morning, and place them in a cool, shady place for an \ 

hour to dry. Toss them lightly, and then put them in ' 

layers, with salt sprinkled freely between, in a large ^ 

covered glass dish. You may add fresh petals to this \ 

every morning. When you have a sufficient quantity, i 

let the whole stand ten days, shaking thoroughly every -i 

morning. Now, in the bottom of a glass fruit jar place \ 

two ounces of whole allspice, crushed, and two ounces • 

of stick cinnamon, broken coarsely. Fill the jar with the i 
rose petals and salt. This must now stand six weeks, or 

even longer, when it may be prepared for the permanent \ 
jar. During these six weeks the jar should be perfectly 

air tight. \ 

Mix together one ounce eacn of ground cloves, allspice, \ 
cinnamon and mace; one ounce of orris root, shredded 



and bruised; two ounces of lavender flowers. These are i 

the proportions to be used to one quart of the rose petals. j 

Place this mixture in alternate layers with the contents j 

of the glass fruit jar, in the more ornamental jar that is to ;i 
be used permanently. If you choose you may add a few 

drops of the oil of your favorite flower, rose, geranium or 1 

violet, and pour over the whole one-quarter of a pint of \ 



good cologne. This pot-pourri will last for years. From 
time to time you may add a little lavender water or any 
nice perfume. The fragrant odor from a rose jar filled 
with leaves and fragrant spices is very penetrating, and is 
particularly pleasant in large drawing rooms and halls. 
The odor is not only refreshing but delightful as well. 
A rose jar filled with a good stock should never be al- 
lowed to remain constantly open; if the covers are re- 
moved for an hour at a time twice a day, your rooms 
will become permeated with a sweet, reviving odor, that 
will be a delight to all who enter your home. 

Now, one word. When you select your rose jar, the 
best are those with double covers without perforations in 



342 



Home Adornments. 



either cover. You will find them with a single cover; 
with a double cover, the inner one perforated, and with a 
double cover, the outer one perforated; and the best of 
all is the one which I have mentioned. In conclusion, let 
me say, if you own a rose bush, by all means have a rose 
jar. It is not only a delightful thing to prepare, but once 
prepared, you will find it 

"A thing of beauty, and a joy forever." 
A Rustic Flower Stand. — A neat stand can be made 
by taking a crotched stick hav- 
ing three branches as shown in 
the accompanying figure. The 
branches should come from the 
main trunk at about the same 
point, and be equally distant from 
one another at their lower ends. 
Such a stick can easily be found 
in the forest, and with a little 
labor an ornamental and service- 
able flower stand can be had 
without any outlay of money. 

Sewing Box.— This isa-simple 
and very useful and convenient 
addition to the utensils of the 
busy housewife. It can be made 
at home by any one with very lit- 
tle skill at carpenter work. Make 
a box out of common pine lum- 
ber 24 inches in length by 16 
inches wide and 16 inches high. 
Make the arms as shown in the 
picture 27 inches high. The cover 
is put on hinges and straps pre- 
vent its falling backward; castors are placed under 
the corners. Tack a sheet of wadding over the boards 
inside and out, and then cover with denim or cretonne, 
using brass-headed nails and white tape as illustrated on the 
following page. The inside is fitted with strips of tape and 
pockets of every size and shape to form a safe retreat 
for scissors, thread, needles, tapes, elastic, buttons, hooks 
and eyes, etc. 

When the cover is down, it forms a pretty chair and no 
one would suspect that it contains undarned stockings 
and all the family mending awaiting a leisure hour to 
be attended to. 




Home Adornments. 



343 



The accompanying illustration, we hope, will prompt 
some to make this convenient and usetul adornment of 
the home. 




Sweet Potato Vine.— If the beauty of the foliage of this 
vine were more widely known, it would be more fre- 
quently used as an ornamental plant. It can be used in 
water or in earth in a pot. Select a sound potato of 
good size. Let it rest upon the edge of the vessel with 
its lower end just touching the water. Considerable heat 
is required to start it. Then give it a sunny place and 
plenty of water. If it is to be trained to run up over 
the window, remove all except two or three of the strong- 
est sprouts. It is a beauty if grown in a vase set upon 
a bracket. In this case a number of small and tender 
shoots are preferable to a few large ones. All the care 
needed is to supply it with water which the leaves take up 
and evaporate rapidly. 

Decorating witli Natural Objects.— Nature has pro- 
vided abundant material of the greatest variety from which 
skillful hands and artistic taste can devise and plan thou- 



344 



Home Adornments. 



sands of articles that make home attractive. And thes* 
need not be confined to the homes of the wealthy, but the 
humblest home in the land with proper care and fore- 
thought can be made more homelike by taking free that 
which is offered in nature's storehouse. The shells of 
the ocean; the leaves, twigs and bark of trees; the grasses 
and flowers of fields and meadows; the mosses of the 
rocks, and the insects of the woods are all at our service. 
A home-made bird nest bracket, a shell bracket, a bracket 
made of ferns, grasses, leaves, mosses and set off with but- 
terflies or other insects may add beauty and bring cheer- 
fulness where most needed. 

Ferns. — Ferns whose exquisite beauty of form and grace 
of outline cannot be destroyed are abundant in our 
shaded woodlands and in sheltered nooks. They should 
be pressed very carefully when nearly full grown. These, 
when painted with pale green paint, mixed with linseed 
oil, may be tastefully arranged in brackets of straw and 
splints, or simply glued on a pasteboard frame with moss, 
grasses or leaves. Do not use turpentine to thin the paint. 
It will give the ferns an unnatural color. Ferns can, in 
this way, be used for decorating picture frames, mantels 
and beautifying unsightly corners. They can be arranged 
by a network of string held in place by small wire nails. 

Autumn Leaves. — Leaves should be collected before the 
rains bleach them. After being carefully pressed and 
dried, they can be prepared by being dipped into a mixture 
of white wax and a little gamboge. Keep the wax 
at proper temperature, so that it does not set in lumps 
on the leaves, or, on the other hand, curl or crimp them. 

Grasses should be collected as soon as they become wiry 
and stiff. The prettiest grasses are found in marshes and 
along the sea shore. They can be bleached by being dip- 
ped into strong boiling soda water and then laid on racks 
in a tight box where a little sulphur is burned under 
them. They are then dried in a hot sun. It is often 
necessary to repeat the process. Some flowers are 
bleached by using strong castile soap suds instead of 
soda. Be sure that your grasses are thoroughly bleached 
before coloring them. The best method of coloring them 
is by using the aniline dyes. Some colors take in a 
few minutes, while others require much boiling before 
the colors are set. These grasses made up into bouquets, 
or used in a variety of ways, provide adornments for 
rooms. At little or no cost your home can be made 
more homelike by their use. Try it! 



Hygiene of the Bedroom. 



345 



HYGIENE OF THE BEDROOM. 

Dr. W. C. Lyman says: This doesn't consist chiefly in 
airing the room and bedding, after their use during the 
night. That is a very good, important thing in its way. 
But it is not the matter a neglect of which brings on 
the characteristic bedroom smell, lihe bedroom odor, 
noticeable in three out of every five bedrooms in the 
land, is rnostly derived from the urine that is allowed 
to stand in uncovered, or but partly close receptacles, 
12 out of each 24 hours, in these rooms. Urine con- 
tains several volatile and also highly poisonous and 
malodorous elements. Those not only pass readily into 
the air of bedrooms, but are absorbed by mattresses, 
carpets, hangings, plaster, and upholstered furniture. Air- 
ing a room thus charged and saturated is better than 
not airing it. But it is not beginning at the more 
available end of the problem. This is not a matter to 
be minced about, or politely overlooked, when bedroom 
hygiene is being discussed. To speak of the (slightly!) 
increased exhalations of the body during sleep, as if they 
were what had mainly to be dealt with, is to divert at- 
tention from a matter that is all too little appreciated, and 
is really primary. The extent to which this source of 
mischief in bedrooms is overlooked by people otherwise 
highly particular in their housekeeping is indicated by 
the number of delicately shaped, finely decorated and 
coverless pieces of pottery sold to well-to-do people for 
use in their bedrooms. A wide inquiry into the subject 
has convinced the writer that the bedroom odor to be 
found in most houses is there because the idea of urine 
as a source of smell has never occurred, or been sug- 
gested to housekeepers generally. 

The means of obviating the nuisance are too obvious 
to need mention, and the only further comment called 
for is that prevention here is emphatically better than 
cure. Once this matter is seen to, a carpeted, upholstered 
bedroom, with ever so many woolen hangings, if reason- 
ably aired, can be kept as sweet, both in summer and 
winter, as the general sitting-room, with its two to three 
times as many occupants. Try it and see. 

Beds and Ueddin^.— The beds and bedding should 
sometimes have special care. The blankets that have been 
put away all summer must be hung on the clothes-line 
some bright day. Give them a good shaking or beating 
and let them air for several hours. If comforters are used 
they must have the same treatment. When it is possi- 



346 



Hygiene of the Bedroom. 



ble, however, discard comforters and use only blankets, 
which are more healthful and cleanly. Have the mattress- 
es, pillows and bolsters thoroughly beaten and aired. 
Dust the springs of the beds, and when the form of the 
springs is such that you can do so, make a covering' of 
strong calico. It should be sewed at both ends and one 
side. Slip the springs in at the open side, which should 
then be sewed up. This prevents the accumulation of 
dust on the springs, saving an immense amount of trouble. 
Get the wide, light prints that upholsterers use for the 
covering of fine stufYed furniture. It is a little more ex- 
pensive than common calico, but it pays in the end. This 
covering also protects the mattress from rust. Make cov- 
ers of strong unbleached cotton for mattresses, and have 
these covers washed twice a year. They must be made 
open on the side, and, when the mattress is slipped in, 
the sides must be basted together. 

While the bedding is airing, take down the bed and dust 
it thoroughly. Lay the head, foot and side pieces on the 
floor, grooved sides up, and pour naphtha into all the 
grooves and creases. It will not hurt the floor or carpet 
if it should run over upon them. Have the windows 
open, of course, whenever you use naphtha. Let your bed 
stand this way for several hours; then set it up and bring 
in the mattresses and other bedding. There is not the 
slightest danger in using naptha if the windows in the 
room and adjoining hall or rooms be opened, that the 
gases shall escape, and if there be no light or fire in the 
rooms. If you have some blankets to be washed, select 
a bright, windy day, and if this be their first washing, rip 
off the bindings, if colored cotton or worsted, and bind 
the blankets anew with the lossely-woven white braid 
that comes for flannels. 

Airing tlie Sleeping Room.— In cold weather there is 
possibly a tendency to be a little neglectful in the matter 
of fresh air for the sleeping rooms, especially if they are 
so situated as to get but little artificial heat. 

But in winter, even more than in summer, the poison- 
ous exhalations of the body during sleep must be gotten 
rid of, or the air breathed at night becomes very impure. 
Why is it that the tone of the system is generally lowered, 
and that many people need a tonic or a "blood purifier" 
in the spring? Simply because the manner of living has 
not been in accordance with the strict laws of health, and 
largely because the sleeping rooms have not been suffi- 
ciently aired. 



Hygiene of the Bedroom. 



How to Do It.— In the first place, then, the bed should 
be opened, the blankets and sheets taken off one by one, 
and well shaken, and arranged carefully in such a way 
that the air can blow upon them. Shake the pillows well, 
and if possible leave them in a sunny, breezy spot; take 
off the blanket or quilt that covers the mattress, and lastly, 
the mattress itself should be thrown up so that the air 
may get around it. Then open the windows, and let the 
room be purified. 

Go Far Enough.— A woman of my acquaintance used 
to arrange her bedding in the way mentioned above, and 
would then open the window in the farthest corner of the 
room, three or four inches. When the room was cold, 
• she called it well aired. She congratulated herself vastly 
on her excellent method. It was all right as far as it 
went, but it did not go far enough. The windows ought 
to be opened enough to make a good draught through. 
Then, after a while, the poisonous air — containing possi- 
bly many disease germs— will give place to the sweet, 
fresh, vitalizing air that sustains life in vigor. 

Dr. Abernethy.— There is a story told of the eminent 
Dr. Abernethy, who was as blunt as he was learned. He 
was called to prescribe for an old lady in failing health, 
who prided herself upon being, and who looked, the very 
pink of neatness. Her dress was spotless, and her cap 
immaculate, and her friends spoke of her as that "sweet 
pld lady." After much questioning, which was almost 
impertinent, and a careful diagnosis of the case, the doctor 
said, grufBy: "Madam, you are ill because of filth." Of 
course she was horrified, but he went on: "Your bed is 
not properly aired, and in consequence you are being 
slowly poisoned to death." 

Before Breakfast.— The smart housewives who make 
their beds before breakfast, so as to have their work "out 
of the way early," are not unknown to most of us. 

Closet Door. — When the windows are open, open also 
the closet door, for, besides dispelling the odors that will 
gather in a closed closet, light and air are very discour- 
aging to the naughty little silver moths, for they truly 
"love darkness rather than light." 

Punctilious. — In carinfj for the furnishing of the sleep- 
ing room, one can not be too punctilious. The wash- 
stand, and all the dishes belonging to it, should be kept 
perfectly sweet and clean. Let no stale water remain in 
the room, or soiled towels, or clothing. Indeed, nothing 
which can taint the room in any degree should be allowed 



348 



Hygiene of the Bedroom, 



where, more perhaps than in any other room in the house, 
there ought to be an abundance of sweet, wholesome, and 
refreshing air. 

Home Made Mattresses. — The advantages of the home- 
made mattresses over the store mattresses is that one has 
the satisfaction of knowing what is in them, which can- 
not be said of the purchased ones. Then, too, by making 
one's own mattresses one has more money to buy the 
springs and bedding. I have had many of my friends 
copy my mattresses, which I make of the best of fancy 
blue stripe ticking. Cut the proper length and width, 
with side and end pieces as wide as you wish. When 
sewed up with an opening m the top piece, fill with as 
much excelsior as you can press in, sew up the opening, 
and tie just as the store ones are. Use an upholsterer's 
needle. I knot with three or four strands of colored 
warp, which makes them look prettier. The "filling" can 
be procured for a song generally. Tie a row of knots 
around the sides and ends, and when your work is com- 
plete you will vote them the prettiest mattresses you ever 
saw. To make my beds more comfortable I make top 
mattresses of 6-cent tennis flannel, putting twelve rolls of 
cotton in each one and knotting like comfortables. 
They are far superior to feather beds, as the latter 
never get renovated often enough. When I want to 
wash them I take them out in the shade on a big 
table and scrub them on both sides with a new scrub 
brush made of broom splints, and they are easily and 
quickly cleansed. Now hang them on a wire line 
and pour on cold water, rinsing in this way until the 
water runs ofif clear. I wash comforts the same way, 
excepting the cheese-cloth ones; these I wash with my 
"pounder" washer, which gets them nice and white, and 
they are as light as a feather. No need of taking them 
apart, it is tedious and unnecessary. Sanitary laws re- 
quire the inside to be clean, too. 

Spare Bed.— Don't let your guests sleep in the spare 
bed without first giving it a good airing. A good way 
to test the sheets for dampness is to lay a hand mirror 
between them. If it comes out blurred, give them some 
other bed. 

Guest Chamber.— Something interesting to read is a de- 
sirable provision for the guest chamber. A bright novel, 
the latest magazine, or a book of short stories will always 
tee appreciated by the guest who does not always wish to 
stay with the family to entertain or be entertained. A 



The Dining Room. 



340 



scrap book will furnish something of interest; also a port- 
folio of engravings. 

THE DINING ROOM. 

Too much stress can hardly be laid upon the desirability 
of having the dining room bright and cheery. The dainty 
touches that make the difference between the home and 
the hotel table should not be lacking. 

Best Results. —There is much to be said in this direction, 
both for the behavior at table, and the refinement of setting 
and bringing out the best results from what we have 
on hand. To the millionaire, of course, all this is plain 
sailing; the fashionable caterer is called in, the date fixed, 
number of guests decided upon, the best results gained, 
and the newest fads presented on the evening in question. 
Many times there is no consultation at all; the whole 
affair is handed over to the chef in charge, and he and the 
florist bring all their best and most original ideas into 
play, making the house and table resplendent with beauties 
and delight. 

Less Fortunate.— But to the less fortunate of mankind 
and women, who have to study the lights and shades, the 
materials and forces on hand, to those I address myself. 
To give an entertainment, large or small, there are a few 
points to be observed. 

We Eat to Lire.— 'Tis a long and well-established fact 
that we eat to live, and to do this well, food should be well 
and properly cooked, as our mental and physical condition 
greatly depends on the purity of what we take as nourish- 
ment. 

Live to Eat. — I must confess, however, judging from 
some people in this world, from their habits and behavior 
at table, that they "live to eat." Now, there is no doubt 
that eating is one of the necessities of life; so to enjoy our 
meals, good manners and an amount of good sense should 
rule the head as well as the stomach. 

Requisites. — Still, to really enjoy the food we eat, sev- 
eral things are requisite. We must have the desire for 
food — appetite — and to possess this, we must have health, 
and health is only to be attained by leading temperate 
lives, eating and drinking judiciously — avoiding excesses 
of all kinds. 

Well Cooked Food.— To this we may add that the food 
should be well cooked. By this I do not mean well done, 
for some dishes, especially beef and game, are better when 



350 



The Dining Room. 



"rare done," but properly cooked, and carefully prepared 
previous to the cooking. 

Good Quality. — Nor can we hope for a good dinner, or 
other meals, unless the materials comprising it are of 
themselves of a good quality — no strong butter, stale eggs, 
meat that is under a cloud. Nor will coarse brown sugar 
make a delicate cake or jelly. Such a condition of things 
must of necessity produce an inferior meal. 

White China. — Pure white china, dainty and pretty, is 
taking the place of the ornate china that has been so long 
in vogue. 

Simplicity. — The simpler the appointments of a dining 
room are, the better it is. It is comfort rather than show 
that is to be considered. 

The Appointments of the table should be of the best 
you can command — the linen of snowy whiteness, the 
silver bright and shining, sparkling glass clear and clean, 
with well-polished and sharpened cutlery. These give an 
air of refinement and elegance to the simplest repast, and 
are a crown of luxury to the feast. 

" Hot." — Then this rule should be followed out in the 
various dishes, served with neatness and care, and not the 
least in consideration, all should be placed on the table 
"hot." 

Punctuality should be the motto, and the table should 
not be kept waiting for any belated guest. Flowers are 
always a beautiful adjunct to the table, from the simplest 
rose, standing all alone in its beauty, to the bevy of lovely 
flowers just gathered, dripping with dew, from the garden. 
To this we add a prevailing spirit of friendliness and har- 
mony, with refinement of manners. 

Enjoyment Complete.— If these requirements be fulfilled, 
the pleasure, I am sure, will be more than realized, and 
your enjoyment be complete. 

Napkins and Doilies.— For ordinary dinners the doillies 
should be three-fourths of a yard in size, and marked, if 
marked at all, with letters an inch and a half long. 

Luncheon and breakfast napkins are five-eighths of a 
yard square. 

Tea napkins should not be longer than half a yard 
square. 

The little fringed designs are prettiest for this purpose. 

Never introduce any colors except in flowers. 

Never employ heavily-scented blossoms for table decora- 
tion, as the strong perfume is very nauseating to some 
people. 



Housekeeping. 851 




PBACTICAL METHODS AND RECIPES FOR THE 
CARE OF KITCHEN UTENSILS. 

1. Attention to details is very necessary. 

2. Sand or bath brick is excellent in cleaning wooden 
articles, floors, tables and the like. 

3. If you use limestone water, an oyster shell in the tea 
kettle will receive the lime deposit. 

4. Boil in the coffee pot, occasionally, soap, water and 
washing soda. It should always be bright to insure good 
coffee. 

5. Pans made of sheet-iron are better to bake bread and 
cake in than those made of tin. 

6. If skillets are very greasy, a little sal soda in the 
water will neutralize the grease, and so make them much 
easier to wash. 

7. Bottles and cruets are cleaned nicely with sand and 
soap suds. 

8. Iron pots, stoneware jars and crocks should have cold 
water and a little soda placed in them on the stove and 
allowed to boil, before using them. 

9. Never allow the handles of knives to be placed into hot 
water. 



352 



Housekeeping. 



10. A discolored brass kettle can be cleaned nicely bv 
scouring it with a little vinegar and salt and washing it well 
afterwards with hot water and soap. 

1 1. Scrape the dough from your rolling pin and wipe with 
a dry towel, rather than wash it. 

12. Steel or silver may tarnish in woolen cloths, A 
chamois skin or tissue paper is very much better. 

13. Don't put your tinware or iron vessels away damp^ 
alv/ays dry them first. And scald out your woodenware 
often. 

14. Don't use a brass kettle for cooking until it i» 
thoroughly cleaned with salt and vinegar. 

15. Don't allow coffee or tea to stand in tin. 

16. Don't allow knives with wooden, horn or bone handles 
to lie in hot water, wash the blades in as hot water as you 
please, but keep it off the handles as much as possible. 

17. Don't heat new iron vessels too quickly. Heat tbcni 
gradually, and they are not so liable to crack. 

18. Milk in Tumblers. — When milk is used in tumblers 
wash them first in cold water, afterward rinse in hot water. 

19. Cleaning Fruit Jars. — A handful of carpet tacks will 
clean fruit jars or bottles readily. Half fill the jars with 
hot soapsuds, put in the tacks, cover, give vigorous shak- 
ing and rinse well. 

20. To Clean Knives, take a potato, cut in halves and dip 
in brick dust and rub the knives, the potato affording 
just enough moisture. 

21. Silverware. — Put a lump of camphor in the case with 
the silverware when packing it away for the summer 
months. If this be done the silver will be less liable to 
become discolored. 

22. Ammonia for Silver. — One teaspoonf ul of ammonia to 
a teacup of water applied with a rag will clean silver or 
gold jewelry perfectly. 

23. For Cleaning Tinware there is nothing better than dry 
flour applied with a newspaper. First wash the tin in hot 
soapsuds, wipe thoroughly dry, and then scour with flour 
and well crumbled newspaper. 

24. Bread and Cake Bowls, or any dishes in which flour 
and eggs have been used, are more easily cleaned if 
placed in cold water after using. 

25. Glass Dishes. — Dissolve a tablespoonful of turpentine 
in two quarts of hot water and use for washing glass dishes 
and globes. 

It gives them a beautiful luster* 



Housekeeping. 



353 



26. Cut Glass.— To wash cut glass and have it clear and 
shining you should have a soft brush, and dry it lastly, after 
using a linen towel, with tissue paper. 

27. Covers should nnt be left on cooking utensils when 
they are put away, as in this way the fresh air is kept out, 
and that which is kept in grows stale and ill-smelling. 

28. Pitchers, Bowls, Pans and other utensils used for milk 
should have cold water stand in them for an hour or so, 
then be washed in plenty of clean, soapy water, be scalded 
with boiling water, wiped dry, and placed in the open 
air and sun, if possible. Then you may be sure they are 
clean and sweet, and fit to receive milk. 

2g. Fishimd Onions.— Pans in which fish or onions have 
been boiled should be rinsed at once, then filled with 
cold water, into which a teaspoonful of cooking soda or 
Pearline has been placed, set on the range, and allowed 
to stand until time for washing; then wash them thorough- 
ly in warm, clean, soapy water, rinse and wipe, and dry in 
th« open air. 

30. To Cleanse Your Sink dissolve a pound of copperas in 

a gallon of boiling water and use freely. The copperas 
can be bought for a few cents, but it should be labeled 
"poison" and kept out of the reach of children. It is a 
great disinfectant and purifier. 

31. Ivory Knife-Handles,and other ivory handles that have 
become yellow, may be bleached by placing them under a 
tall glass in the sun. If the ivory is carved, and the 
crevices have become dirty and discolored, wash them with 
warm water and powdered pumice-stone. If very little 
soiled, moisten a flannel with water, dip it in finely 
powdered salt, rub the article lightly with it, and it will 
both cleanse and whiten the ivory. 

32. Economic Points. — Housekeeping carried on on 
a cash basis always pays. If you cannot pay cash for an 
article, do not buy it. Have tin canisters for your spices, 
tea, cofifee, etc. Oatmeal, rice, cracked wheat and the 
like are kept better in close covered glass jars, as they 
are liable to get wormy, if loosely covered. Meal and 
flour keep best in wooden receptacles. Do not allow 
groceries to stand around in paper bags or packages. It 
is not economical to buy sugar and cofTee in quanti- 
ties less than a dollar's worth. Do not buy potatoes 
and apples by the peck, but by the bushel, unless they 
are very high in price, or you have no room for them. 

Do riot buy oat meal in large quantities. 

■a 



354 



Housekeeping. 



HOUSEHCLD MEASURES AND WEIGHTS. 

Below we give the weights and measures in ordinary 
use among housekeepers: 

2 teaspoonfuls equal i tablespoonful. 
2 tablespoonsfuls equal i ounce. 
l6 tablespoonfuls equal i cupful. 
2 cupfuls equal i pint. 

1 pint equals i pound. 
l6 ounces equal i pound. 

4 gills equal i pint. 

2 pints equals i quart. 
4 quarts equal i gallon. 

An ordinary tumblerful equals i cupful. 

I quart flour equals i pound. 

8 or 10 ordinary sized eggs equal i pound. 

1 tablespoonful salt equals i ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls equal i wine glass. 

4 wine glasses equal i coffee cupful 

Recipes often call for weights and measures, in fractions, 
of a pound or a cup. If the cook is not accurate in 
her measurements more or less of failure results. Ttie foi' 
lowing have been carefully verified and can be relied upon, 
Girls who are learning to cook will find them helpful, if 
kept close at hand for reference. 

A teaspoonful, tablespoonful or teacupful is one filled, 
then slightly shaken until rounded on the top. A heaped 
teaspoonful, etc., is all that will lie on, and a level one 
a heaped one leveled with a knife. 

Nine heaped tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar make 
a teacupful, and two teacupfuls weigh a pound. 

Two and three-quarters teacupfuls of powdered, two 
and one-half of good brown sugar weigh a pound. 

Four heaped tablespoonfuls of butter make a teacupful, 
and two teacupfuls weigh a pound. 

Four teacupfuls of sifted flour fill a quart measure, and 
a quart of flour weighs a pound. 

Two teacupfuls of raisins weigh a pound, and two and 
two-thirds teaspoonfuls of currants weigh a pound. 

A teacupful of rice weighs half a pound, and a quart 
of oatmeal weighs one pound. 

One teacupful makes half a pint, sixteen tablespoon- 
fuls of liquid make a teacupful. Three teaspoonfuls make 
a tablespoonful, and ten and two-thirds tablespoonfuls 
make a teacupful. Four tablespocfuls of liquid are equal 
to a wineglassful. A tablespoonful holds half a fluid 



H ousekeeping. 



355 



ounce. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour weigh an 
ounce. 

Amateur cooks are perplexed by the direction so often 
given, "salt and spice to taste." The proportion of salt 
to a quart of soup or gravy is one teaspoonful. A tea- 
spoonful of flavoring extract, or a teaspoonful of spice 
IS sufficient for one cake. 

A tablcspoonful of broken cinnamon, a tablespoonful 
each of peppercorns, celery seed, whole cloves and mus- 
tard seed, will spice strongly a quart of vinegar for sour 
pickles. 

A tablespoonful of commercial mixed spices will spice 
a quart of vinegar. 

One level teaspoonful of soda will sweeten a pint of 
buttermilk or sour milk. 

Three teaspoonfuls of baking powder are used for a 
quart of flour. 

A quick oven, to sear roast meats, should turn a 
white paper brown in three minutes, for bread and pastry 
in five minutes. 

To test for cake, white paper should turn yellow in 
five minutes, if the oven is the right temperature. 



HOW TO EAT ORANGES. 




Cut the orans:es across the sections as shown in the above 
illustration. Then take a small spoon, and it will fit into 
each section, and the meat is easily and daintily removed. 

There are special orange spoons, which are very nice for 
those who can afford them. An ordinary teaspoon will 
answer the purpose very nicely. 



356 



Housekeeping . 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

Throw flour on kerosene flames. 
Try molasses for grass stains. 
Ripe tomatoes will remove ink stains. 
Remember, slamming the door of the oven makes 
cake fall. 

A few drops of lemon juice make cake frosting very 
white. 

A hot shovel held over varnished furniture will take out 
white spots. 

Try sprinkling powdered cloves about the places in- 
fested by red ants. 

A little flour dredged over the top of a cake will 
prevent the icing from running. 

There should be just as much conscience put into 
dusting a room as in managing an estate. 

The ivy-decked house is picturesque, but the damp- 
ness and insects that linger in the greenery are not. 

Early-rising' means a whole day's work done before 
noon, a consideration that hot weather makes desirable. 

Hard-flnished waHs may be cleaned by using one-half 
cupful of ammonia in a pail of water. 

When polishing mirrors, windows or picture glass with 
whitening, the best way to use it is to have it in 
muslin bags. Dampen the glass lightly, then rub with 
the bag and polish off with a crumpled newspaper. 

Window panes. — Warm water into whicli a small quan- 
tity of turpentine has been poured will clean glass globes, 
window panes and mirrors m the most satisfactory way. 
A few drops of alcohol in warm water is also good for 
burnishing glass. 

To Prevent Frosted Windows.- Apply a very thin coat- 
ing of glycerine to both sides of the glass and no mois- 
ture will settle thereon. 

To Remove Wrinkles from Woolens. — Stretch the gar- 
ments and hang them over night in a heated room. 

To Polish Iron.— A solution of vinegar and salt is the 
best thing to clean polished iron ,is well as copper. Heat 
the salt and vinegar in the frying pan or other dish. 
Rub off the stains, then wash it off and scour it with 
sand soap. 



Housekeeping. 



SALT. 

Salt puts out a fire in the chimney. 

Salt in the oven under baking-tins will prevent their 
scorching on the bottom. 

Salt and vinegar will remove stains from discolored 
teacups. 

Salt and soda are excellent for bee stings and spider 
bites. 

Salt thrown on soot which has fallen on the carpet will 
prevent stains. 

Salt put on ink freshly spilled on a carpet will help to 
remove the spot. 

Salt in whitewash makes it stick. 

Salt thrown on a coal fire which is low will revive it. 

Salt used in sweeping carpets keeps out moths. 

Salt sprinkled upon the kitchen range will stop the 
smoke and smell of substance burning. 

SODA AND CHARCOAL. 

A box of washing soda in the kitchen and another in 
the bath room closet are great aids in cleanly house- 
keeping. Greasy pots and pans, or those to which some- 
thing has burned or fastened itself so firmly that scraping 
is a disagreeable necessity, are easily cleansed if a small 
lump of the soda is put in the pan and covered with cold 
water. Set the utensil over the fire until after dinner 
and you will find that all the grease or crust is loosened. 
Granite ware and tin last much longer when cleansed 
in this way, which is preferable to the pot-cleaner that 
is a network of iron or steel rings. The soda is also 
excellent to cleanse and whiten unvarnished and un- 
painted floors, tables, and other surfaces, and quite in- 
dispensable in flushing the waste pipe in the bathroom and 
kitchen sinks once or twice a week. In this case the 
soda should be dissolved in boiling water and used at 
once. 

Charcoal is another simple and inexpensive purifying 
agent that is most useful in keeping a house free from 
smells of various kinds. A few good-sized pieces in a 
refrigerator occasionally purify and preserve it. If you 
have that abomination, an enclosed dark place under the 
sink for pots, etc., put some charcoal there, as well as in 
the cupboard where you keep cooked food. 



358 



Housekeeping. 



HOW TO HAVE LAMPS BURN BRIGHTLY. 

In these days when lamps are used so much, the care 
of them is quite an important matter. If the lamps be 
good and have proper attention, one cannot wish tor a 
more satisfactory light; but if badly cared for they will 
be a source of much discomfort. The great secret of 
having lamps in good working order is to keep them clean 
and to use good oil. Have a regular place and time 
for trimming the lamps. Put a folded newspaper on the 
table, so that any stray bits of burned wick and drops 
of oil may fall upon it. Wash and wipe the chimneys 
and shades. Now take ofif all loose parts of the burner, 
washing them in hot soap-suds and wiping with a clean 
soft cloth. Trim the wicks and turn them quite low. 
With a soft, wet cloth, well soaped, wipe the burner 
thoroughly, working the cloth as much as possible inside 
the burner, to get of? every particle of the charred 
wick. Now fill the lamps within about one inch of the 
top, and wipe with a damp towel and then a dry one. 
Adjust all the parts and return them to their proper 
places. Whenever a new wick is required in a lamp, wash 
and scald the burner before putting in the wick. With 
a student lamp, the receptacle for waste oil, which is 
screwed on the bottom of the burner, should be taken 
ofif at least once a week and washed. Sometimes a wick 
will get very dirty before it is half consumed. It is not 
economy to try to burn it; replace it with a fresh one. 
The trouble and expense are slight, and the increase in 
clearness and brilliancy will repay the extra care. When 
a lamp is lighted, it should not at once be turned up to 
the full height; wait until the chimney is heated. Beautiful 
shades are often cracked or broken by having the hot 
chimneys rest against them. Now, when lighting a lamp, 
be careful that the chimney is set perfectly straight, and 
does not touch the shade at any point. The shade should 
be placed on the lamp as soon as it is lighted, that it 
may heat gradually. 

Lamp Burners.— At least once a month lamp burners 
should be boiled in strong, soapy water; lamp wicks 
should as often be washed in soap suds; lamp chimneys 
should not be washed, but moistened with steam, wiped 
with soft linen, and polished with paper. A ctoth and 
kerosene give a good bright surface. 

Keep Your Oil Lamp Full.— Scarcely a day passes but 



Housekeeping. 



that we hear of fearful accidents and disastrous fires 
occasioned by the explosion oi kerosene lamps. A fruit- 
ful source of danger noiu uns course ucs in the neglect 
to keep the lamp full. It a lamp is neglected and al- 
lowed to burn low, mliamrnaoie gas gattiers over the sur- 
face, which a sligiit jar inilames, and an expiOSion follows. 
Lamps in daily use siiould be tilled every morning. 

HOW TO TEIM LAMPS. 

In trimming the wicks, leave a thin coat of the 
brown edge. It takes a steady hand to trim a wick, so 
that it will burn with an even and steady fiame. The 
wick should always be turned down. If it is above the 
burner, the kerosene will flow down the sides of the lamp 
more or less. 

TO TOUGHEN LAMP CHIMNEYS AND GLASSWARE. 

Immerse the article in a pot filled with cold water, to 
which some common salt has been added. Boil the water 
well, then cool slowly. Glass treated in this way will re- 
sist any sudden changes of temperature. 

TO MAKE AN OLD LAMP BURNER AS GOOD AS NEW. 

Dissolve an ounce of sal-soda in a quart of rain water. 
In this boil the burner for ten minutes, then wipe with a 
cotton cloth. Soak the wick in strong vinegar, dry thor- 
oughly, and it will not smoke. 

HOW TO CLEAN A STOVE. 

A little soap is as useful in cleaning a stove or range 
as in cleaning other kitchen ware. A flannel rubbed with 
soap and then dipped into stove polish will lighten labor 
when the stove is to be made bright. Of course, the 
finishing touch must be a dry brush or cloth, applied 
with energy. Stoves so blackened are said to retain 
their polish much longer. 

HOW TO KEEP STOYES FROM RUSTING, 

By applying kerosene with a rag when you are about 
to put your stoves away for the summer you will prevent 
ttiem from rusting. 



Family Receipts, 361 




ALL KIM)SOF FAMILY RECEIPTS AND REMEDIES. 

A SURE CURE FOR CAR SICKNESS. 
Take a sheet of writing-paper large enough to cover both 
ihe chest and stomach, and put it on under the clothing, 
2iext to the person. If one sheet is not large enough paste 
the edges of two or three together, for the chest and stomach 
must be well covered. Wear the paper thus as long as you 
are traveling, and change it every day if your journey is a 
long one. Those who have tried it say that it is a perfect 
defense. 

A HEALTHY SPRUCE BEER. 

Yz pint essence of spruce, 
4 ounces bruised pimento, 
4 ounces ginger, 
3 gallons water. 
Boil 5 or lo minutes, then strain, and add 1 1 gallons ot 
warm water, a pint of yeast, and 6 pints of molasses. Allow 
ihe mixture to ferment for 24 hours. 



I 



362 How to Remove Stains Etc. 




NEW AND SCIENTIFIC METHODS 
For Taking Out all kinds of Grease Spots, Fruit or Ink 
Stains, Paints, Oils, Etc. 



The loft coiumn shows the kind of stain and the top column 
the kind of cloth. 



Kind of Stain 


From 
Colored Cotton 


From Colored 
Woolen. 


From Linen. 


From Silks. 


Grease Spots. 


Soap and Wa- 
ter or 
Benzine. 


Soap and Wa- 
ter or 
Benzine. 


Soap Suds or 
Benzine. 


Chloroforiu, 
Benzine 
or Chalk. 


Fruit Stains 
or Bed Ink 


Warm Soap 
Suds or Am- 
monia and 
Water 


Warm Soap 
Suds or 
Ammonia 
and Water. 


Warm Chlor- 
ine Water. 


Warm Water 
mixed with 
A mmonia or 
warm Soap 
Suds. 


Oil Paint 
or Varnish. 


Turpentine 
or Benzine. 


Turpentine. 


Turpentine. 


Et her or Soa)> 
or Benzine. 


Ink Stains. 


A solution of 
Citric Acid. 
Wash repeat- 
edly. 


DiluteHydro- 
chloric Acid. 


A warm solu- 
tion of 
Oxalic Acid. 


No remedy. 


Iron Stains. 


A solution of 
Citric Acid. 
Wash repeat- 
edly. 


DiluteHydro- 
chloric Acid. 


A warm solu- 
tion of 
Oxalic Acid. 


No remedy. 


Wagon Grease 
or Coal Tar. 


Rub with lard 
then Soap it 
and apply 
Turpentine. 


Rub with lard 
then Soap it 

and then 
wash alter- 
nately with 
Water and 
Turpentine. 


Soap or 
Turpentine 
or Benzine. 


!• list lard it, 
then soap It, 
then wash 
alternately 
with Water 
and Benzoin 
instead of 
Benzine. 


Nat Shell 

Stains. 


Wash alternat 


ely with water 


and diluted C 


ilorine water. 



Removing Stains. 

drease Spots. — Cold rain water and soap will remov« 
machine grease from washable fabrics. 

Stains from Acids can be removed by spirits of hartshorn, 
diluted. Repeat, if necessary. 

Iron Rust. — Dip the rusty spots in a solution of tartaric 
or citric acid; or wet the spots and rub on hard, white soap; 
expose it to the heat; or apply lemon juice and salt, and 
expose it to the sun. 

To Take Out Scorch.— Lay the article scorched where 
the bright sunshine will fall upon it. It is said it will re- 
move the spot, and leave it white as snow. 

Mildewed Linen. — This may be restored by soaping the 
spots; while wet, covering them with fine chalk scraped to 
powder, and well rubbed in. 

To Remove Mildew. — Remove mildew by dipping in sour 
buttermilk and laying in the sun. 

Coffee Stains. — Pour on them a small stream of boiling 
water before putting the article in the wash. 

Grass Stains. — Wash the stained places in clean, cold, soft 
water, without soap, before the garment is otherwise wet. 

Tea Stains.— Clear, boiling water will remove tea stains 
and many fruit stains. Pour the w.Titr through the stain, 
and thus prevent its spreading over the fabric. 

Medicine Stains. — These may be removed from silver 
spoons by rubbing them with a rag dipped in sulphuric acid, 
and washing it off with soap suds. 

Fruit Stains.— Freezing will t;xke out all old fruit stai-.s. 
and scalding with boiling writer will remove those that have 
never been through the wash. 

Ink Stains. — Ink stains may sometimes be taken out by 
smearing with hot callow, left on when the stained articles 
go to the wash. 

Ink in Cotton, Silk and Woolen Goods.— Saturate the 
spots with spirits of turpentine, and let it remain several 
hours; then rub it between the hands. It will crumple away 
without injuring either the color or the texture of the 
article. 

To Remove Paint Staiu^ on Windows.— It frequently 
happens that painters splash the plate or other glass win- 
dows when they are painting the "ills. When this is the 
case, melt some soda in very ho'L >vater and wash them with 
it, using a soft flannel. It will entirely remove the paint. 

To Remove Grease From Coat Collars. — Wash with a 
sponge moistened with hartshorn and water. 

To Clean Wall-Paper.— Tie a soft cloth over a broom, 
and sweep down the walls carefully. 



364 



Removing Stains. 



Stains on the Hands. — A few drops of oil vitriol (sul- 
phuric acid) in water, will take the stains of fruit, dark 
dyes, stove blacking, etc. from the hands without injuring 
them. Care must, however, be taken not to drop it upon 
the clothes. It will remove the color from woolen, and eat 
holes in cotton fabrics. To remove ink or fruit stains from 
the fingers, take cream of tartar, half an ounce; powdered 
salt of sorrel, half an ounce ; mix. This is what is sold for 
salts of lemon. 

RemoTing Grease From Silk.— Apply a little magnesia 
to the wrong side, and the spots will disappear. 

To Clean Furs.— Shake and whip them well; then brush; 
boil some flax seed; dip a rag in the water and wipe them 
slightly. This makes them look nearly as good as new. 

To Preserve Furs.— First, hang them out in the sun for 
a day or two; then give them a good beating and shaking 
up, to be sure no moth is in them already. Then wrap up a 
lump of camphor m a rag, and place in each; then wrap up 
each in a sound newspaper and paste together, so there is 
no hole or crevice through which a moth can gain entrance. 

To Clean Velvet.— Wet a cloth and put it over a hot flat- 
iron, and a dry one over that; then draw the velvet across it, 
brushing it at the same time with a soft brush, and it will 
look as nice as new. 

Wrinkled Silk.— Wrinkled silk mav be rendered nearly as 
beautiful as when new, bv sponging the surface with a weak 
solution of gum-arabic or white glue; then iron on the 
wrong side. 

To Make ClofJi Water-Proof.— In a pail of soft water put 
half a pound of sn^'a^ of lead, halt a pound of alum; stir 
this at intervals until it becomes cool; then pour it into an- 
other pail and put the garment therein, and let it be in for 
twenty-four hours, and then hang it up to dry without 
wringing it. 

To Color Kid Gloves,— Put a handful of logwood into a 
bowl, cover with alcohol, and let it soak until it looks strong 
-one dav, perhaps. Put one glove on the hand, dip a small 
woolen cloth or sponge into the liquid, wet the glove all 
over, rub it dry and hard until it shines, and it will be a nice 
purple. Repeat the process, and it will be black. 

Washing Kid Gloves.— First, see that vour hands are 
clean then put on your gloves and wash them as though 
vou were washing vour hands, in a basin of tpirits of tur- 
pentine. This method is used in Paris. The gloves should 
be himg in the air, or some dry place, to carry away the 
^meil of turpentine. 



To Remove Grease Spots, Etc. 



365 



Grease spots in cloth may be taken out by applying a 
solution of salt in alcohol. 

Jfaiut on Cloth iusj,— Soak in kerosene a while previous 
to washing; also paint brushes. If on the hands, dampen 
with it and it will wash off easily. 

lukstiiius on a white surface thould be wet with milk 
and rubbed with salt, allowing it to remain on for some 
time. Two or three applications may be found necessary. 

Alcohol for (7.ras9 Stains.— it is claimed that alcohol 
will immediately remove grass stains from any white 
material. 

Grease Spots on Velvet.— Grease spots on velvet or 
cloth can be removed by dropping a little turpentine over 
the place, and rubbing it dry with a piece of clean flan- 
nel. Continue this until the grease has vanished. If 
the nap of the velvet has become flattened, raise it by 
damping the wrong side, stretching it out, and iron- 
ing it on the wrong side. This is best done by standing 
the iron on end and passing the velvet over it. 

Removiiig Paint from Woolen Goods.— Turpentine will 
remove paint from woolen goods and silk fabrics. Sat- 
urate the spot with spirits of turpentine and allow it to 
remain for hours. Rub the cloth between the fingers and 
the paint will crumble of? without injuring the goods. 

Grease Spots on Wall Paper.— A great many house- 
wives are very often annoyed at finding grease spots on 
the pretty wall paper adorning their rooms. A good way 
to remove these spots is to put powdered French chalk, 
wetted v/ith cold water, over the places, and let it re- 
m.ain for twelve hours or more. When you brush off the 
chalk, if the grease spots have not disappeared, put on 
more chalk, place a piece of coarse brown paper or 
blotting paper on this, and press for a few minutes writh 
a warm iron. 

Or apply a little powdered pipe clay only dampened 
enough to make it stick, and brush the dried powder of? 
later. The ugly grease spots will be gone. 

Wall paper that has become bruised or torn off in 
small patches, and cannot be matched, may be repaired 
with ordinary children's paints. Mix the colors till you 
get as nearly as possible the desired shade, and lightly 
touch up the broken places, and at the distance of a foot 
or two the disfigurement will be quite unnoticed. 

Scratches of Matches. — If matches have been scratched 
on bare walls by careless hands, cut a lemon in two, rub 
the marks off with the cut end^ awash the acid off with 



366 



Household Recipes, 



clear water, and when dry rub with a little whiting till 
the faintest mark is removed. 

BORAX. 

Borax is very useful as a medicine. But to the house- 
keeper it is unspeakably more valuable. 

Meats and fruits are now sent long distances when 
packed in it, and even fish are sent in its solution a 
thousand miles. The happy possessor of a garden can 
lay away her early summer fruits — her currants and 
gooseberries and cherries, her blueberries, her damsons 
—in layers of dry borax, and have them fresh and sweet 
in the middle of winter, carefully brushing and washing 
them before bringing them to the table, and her borax 
is good for another season. The laundress finds it soft- 
ening hard water, whitening her clothes without destroy- 
ing them, and removing the dreaded fruit stains, giving 
transparency to her muslins, and renovating her laces; 
the kitchen maid finds it cleansing both her porcelain 
saucepans and her coffee-urn, and its occasional use 
sweetening the tea-kettle and every pot she uses; the 
table girl finds it giving a new luster to her glass, lays 
her silver in a hot solution of it, and then does not have 
to cleanse it laboriously half so often; and the house- 
maid finds it renewing the brightness and color of her 
oil-cloth, and taking, as if by magic, all the finger marks 
and soiling from wood-work. 

TO REMOVE TEA STAINS. 

Mix thoroughly soft soap and salt, say a tablespoonful 
of salt to a teacupful of soap, rub on the spots and spread 
the cloth on the grass where the sun will shine on it. Let 
it lie for two or three days, then wash. If the spots 
are wet occasionally while lying on the grass, it will 
hasten the bleaching. 

The Broom Should Hang. — Some of the daintiest 
housekeepers neglect to enforce the rule that a brush 
or broom should never be stood brush-part down on the 
floor, where the straws or hair gather dust or damp- 
ness. Every one of these articles should hang from its 
own hook, and, as this is apt to bring the soiled part 
against the wall, it is well to stretch a breadth of muslin 
or calico along the wall from the floor up, so that even 
the washboard is protected from stain. The muslin, of 
course, is washed whenever necessary. As all brooms 
and brushes are not provided with "hangers," a Yankee 



Household Receipts. 



367 



woman has invented a contrivance which can be fitted to 
any handle. It is a wire loop with a string attached, and 
when the string once grips the handle the loop is ready 
for use. The invention costs but a few cents, and is of 
real value in hanging troublesome whisk brooms, brushes, 
umbrellas, and the various mipediments which were born 
to be hung. 

If your room be stulfy because it has been lived in 
too much, or because homo domesticits has indulged too 
freely in the soothing nicotine, you may easily render it 
sweet and habitable once more by placing one half ounce 
of spirits of lavender and a lump of salts of ammonia in 
a wide-mouthed fancy jar or bottle, and leaving it uncov- 
ered. This makes a pleasant deodorizer and disinfectant, 
filling the room with a delicate perfume which will be 
soothing to the nerves and senses, especially during the 
warm weather. 

To Purify Water. — Sprinkle a tablespoonful of pow- 
dered alum in a barrel of water, stirring the while. All 
impurities will be precipitated to the bottom, leaving it 
clear and fresh. A smaller amount of alum may be used 
for a less quantity of water. 

Kitchen Utensils, which every housekeeper, if able, 
should have, are: Bread box; biscuit cutter; cake turner; 
cake cutter, two sizes; double kettle for cooking grains; 
funnels; grater; jelly cake tins; clock; can opener; cork- 
screw; chopping knife; egg beater; flour scoop; tin dip- 
per; pitcher; bowls; soup strainer; gravy strainer; colan- 
der; lemon squeezer; meat board; beefsteak pounder; 
wooden spoons; iron spoons. 

Hot Water. — A very imporfant duty of housekeeping 
is the providing of plenty of hot water on the stove. 
Has your patience ever been taxed when in a great hurry 
for a cupful of boiling water you turned to the kettle to 
find it dry? The remedy is found in keeping kettles and 
reservoirs filled. The old lady's advice may be ridiculed, 
but, nevertheless, if followed, it would do away with 
much of worry and taxing of nerves. As she was about to 
die, and almost speechless, she beckoned her daughter 
to bend over her to receive her final message and mur- 
mured with her last breath: "Always — keep — the kettle 
— full — of — hot — water." 



368 



Household Receipts. 



HOW TO CLEAN BRASS. 

First rub over with a little lemon-juice, and then dry 
thoroughly; then place the article in paraffin, and let it 
soak for three or four hours. Take it out, and while wet 
rub thoroughly with emery powder. The ordinary knife 
powder will do. Use a piece of old flannel, or new, if you 
have no scraps of anything else. When clean rub the 
article well with a clean duster, so as to remove all the 
powder, and then finish off with a leather. Of course the 
rubbing in of the powder takes time, but the result is per- 
fection. 

Rust may be removed from steel by rubbing the article 
with kerosene oil and leaving it for twenty-four hours. 
Then rub thoroughly with a mixture of kerosene and fine 
emery powder. 




HOW TO SHINE SILVER, BRASS, COPPER, 
TIN, ETC. 

Dissolve a quantity of alum in water so as to make a 
pretty strong brine, and skim it carefully, then add some 
soap to it, dip a linen rag in it and rub over the silver. 

A WASH FOR CLEANING SILVER 

Yi ounce fine salt. 
Yi ounce powdered alum. 
Yi ounce cream of tartar. 
Mix together, put into a large white-wa pitcher, and 



How To Clean Various Metals. 



369 



pour on 2 quarts of water and stir them frequently till entirely 
dissolved. Then transfer the mixture to clean bottles and corb 
them closely. Before using it, shake the bottles well. Poui 
Bome of the liquid into a bowl and wash the silver all ovei 
with it, using an old, soft fine linen cloth. Let it stand about 
10 minutes, and then rub it dry with a buckskin. It will make 
the silver look like new. 

TO WASH GREASY TIN AND IRON, 
Pour a few drops of ammonia into every greasy roasting-pan, 
after half filling the pan with hot water. A bottle of ammonia 
should always be kept on hand near the sink for such uses ; 
never allow the pans to stand and dry, for It doubles the labor of 
washing ; but pour in water and use the ammonia, and tbd 
worlc is half done. 

TO CLEAN BRASS. 

Finely -rubbed bichromate of potassa, mixed with twice its 
bulk of sulphurio aoid, and an equal quantity of water, will 
clean the dirtiest brass very quickly. 

TO POLISH NICKEL PLA TE. 
Scour with pulverized borax ; use hot water and very little 
soap ; rinse in hot water, and rub dry with a clean cloth. By 
this quick process a bright polish may be had. 

TO CLEANSE BRASSES, TINS, COPPERS, ETC, 
Mix rotten-stone, soft soap and old turpentine to the consist- 
ency of stiff putty. The article should be first washed in hot 
water to remove grease, then rub the metal with the mixture, 
mixed with a little water ; then rub off briskly with a dry, 
clean rag or leather, and a beautiful and durable polish will 
be obtained. The stone should be very fine, or the articles wil 
become wore or scratched. 
Very fine emery will answer the same purpose. 

T« Remove Rust frsm Knives, Forks, Razors, Etc. 

Cover with sweet oil, well rubbed on, and let it remain for 
48 hours ; then rub with unslaked lime, powdered very fiB« 
autil the rust dlsappeaza. 



li'i J Hew to Make All /etnas of Purntture Washei 




HOW TO MAKE ALL KINDS OF FURNITURE WASHES AND 
REMOVE STAINS, BRUISES, MOTHS, Etc. 

W. W, WICKLES FURNITURE POLISH. 
IK qts. raw linseed oil, 1 qt. turpentine, 

y% qt. boiled linseed oil, 3 ozs. bees wax, 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

Equal quantities of common wax, white wax and white soap, 
ill the proportion of one ounce of each, to a pint of water. Cut 
the above ingredients fine, and dissolve over a fire until well 
mingled. Bottle and label. 

A good temporary wash is kerosene oil. 

TO REMOVE STAINS, SPOTS AND MILDEW 
FROM FURNITURE. 
Take K pint ot 98 per cent, alcohol, 
]4 ounce of pulverized resin, 
^ ounce gum shellac. 
Add \i pint of linseed oil, shake well, and apply with a brnstr 
or tjponge. Sweet oil will remove finger marks from varnished 
iurnituie, and kerosene from oiled furniture. 

TO TAKE BRUISES OUT OF FURNITURE. 
Wet the part with warm water, double a piece of brown 
paper 5 or 6 times, soak it and lay it on the place; apply ot 
:.uit a hot flat-iron, till the moisture is evaporated. If the 
1/1 uibes bo r.ot gone, repeat the process. After 2 (.r ?. an li- 
ci'lionF. Uio dent or bruise will be raised level with the 
bill face. „ -• 



Household Receipts. 



371 



A POLISH FOIi l EW FURNITURE. 

I pint of alcohol. 
I ounce shellac. 
lJ4 ounces copal. 
I ounce dragon's blood. 
Mix and dissolve. Apply with sponge or soft brush. 

A POLISH FOR WOOD OR LEATHER. 

I pint alcohol. 
ZV\ sticks sealing wax. 
Dissolve by heating it, and apply warm with sponge. 
N. B. — The sealing wax should be the color of the 
leather, black, red or blue. 

TO REMOTE MOTHS FROJtt FURNITURE. 
Moths may be exterminated or driven from uphol- 
stered work, by sprinkling this with benzine. The ben- 
zine is put into a small watering pot, such as is used for 
sprinkling house plants; it does not spot the most delicate 
silk, and the unpleasant odor passes off in an hour or two 
into the air. 

Care must be used not to carry on this work near a 
fire or flame, as the vapor of benzine is very inflammable. 
It is said that a little spirits of tu-pentine added to the 
water with which the floor is washed will prevent the 
ravages of moths. 

TO CLEAN MIRRORS, WINDOW GLASS, ETC. 

Take a soft sponge, wash it well in clean water and 
squeeze it as dry as possible; dip it into some spirits of wine 
and rub over the glass; then have some powdered blue 
tied up in a rag, dust it over your glass, and rub it lightly 
and quickly with a soft cloth; afterwards finish with a 
silk handkercl ief. 

TO REMOVE STAINS IN TABLES. 

Wash the surface with vinegar; the stains will then be 
removed by rubbing them with a rag dipped in spirits of 
salts. To repolish, proceed as you would with new work. 
If the work be not stained, wash the surface with clean 
spirits of turpentine and repolish it with furniture oil. 
TO TAKE SMOKE STAINS FROM WALLS. 

An easy and sure way to remove smoke stains from 
whitewash just before applying. A pint of ashes to a 
common plain ceilings is to mix wood ashes with the 
small pail of whitewash is sufficient, but a little more or 
less will do no harm. 



372 



Household Receipts. 



PUKNITURE POLISH. 

A simple furniture polish for common use is m^ide by 
mixing two tablespoonfuls of sweet or linseed oil with a 
tablespoonful of turpentine. Rub on with a piece of flannel 
and polish with a dry piece. 

HOW TO MAKE OIL FINISHED FURNITURE 
LOOK NEW. 

Many good housekeepers are often at a great loss in 
knowing how to keep varnished furniture, and the kind 
generally known as "oil finished," looking fresh and new, 
without going to the expense of having it re-varnished or 
gone over by a finisher. Here is a never-failing polish; 
After thoroughly dusting the article and cleaning off what- 
ever specks may be on it, she should mix and apply the 
following: Take one teaspoonful of pure cider vinegar 
and add to it one gill of pure raw linseed oil. Shake thor- 
oughly until mixed. Apply with a soft woolen rag, rub- 
bing gently. It is only necessary to dampen the rag with 
the mixture and not to thoroughly wet it. It soon dries 
and leaves the article with a bright, new face. This 
preparation has the advantage of not gumming, but giv- 
ing a fresh look to every article of furniture it is applied to. 

HOW TO STAIN A FLOOR. 

Take 'one-third turpentine and two-thirds boiled linseed 
oil, with a little japan dryer added. Buy a can of burned 
sienna, and blend it thoroughly with this mixture. This 
gives a rich reddish brown. Mix the paint quite thin, so 
that it will run readily. Lay it on with a good-sized brush, 
stroking the brush the way of the grain of the wood. Put 
on several coats, allowing each one to become perfectly 
dry. Lastly, give the floor a good coat of varnish, and 
when thoroughly dry it will be found as satisfactory as a 
stained floor can be and easily kept clean. 

THE CARE OF HARDWOOD FLOORS. 

Parquetry Floors.-The parquetry inlaid floors are much 
more easily cared for, as well as more durable, when 
polished with wax than any other preparation. 

In laying a new floor the best paste filler should be 
thoroughly applied by one who understands his business 



Family Receipts. 



373 



and then floor wax applied with a flannel cloth without the 
use of varnish, shellac or hard oil. It requires a heavy- 
weight floor brush to give a polish, but persistence and 
perseverance will give better results and less liability to 
scratching than any other method. This method has been 
in use in the old country many years. 

Plain Oak.— A plain oak floor can be treated in the same 
manner. 

To clean a floor never use soap and water, the dirt can 
be removed with turpentine or the use of some of the 
patent "restorers" furnished by the manufacturers of hard- 
wood floors. Apply the turpentine or restorer with a 
woolen cloth and plenty of elbow grease, then use the wax. 
A thin coating of wax should be rubbed over the entire 
surface of the floor with a woolen cloth and then polished 
with the brush. The brush should be moved in straight 
lines first one way and then the other. 

To Give the Finishing Touch.— Place a clean flannel 
cloth under the brush and rub the floor with this. 

In an ordinary room that has very hard use once a 
month is often enough to polish a floor. In bedrooms 
or where the floor is almost entirely covered with rugs 
once in every three months is sufficient. 

HOW TO BREAK A STRING. 

It is easy to break a 
string, if you know 
how. Woman need 
not hunt for a knife or 
a pair of scissors after 
tymg a bundle, nor 
saw the string over 
the edge of the coun- 
ter. The grocer's loop 
does the business. 
Hook the first finger 
of the left hand over 
he string, giving the 
finger a twist, or rath- 
er, bring the palm 
upward. Then roll the finger over backward until it is 
tight against the bundle, drawing tight the cord, which is 
held in the right hand all the time. Press the thumb 
against the loop; then jerk the cord suddenly with the righi 
hand, and the string cuts itself. 




374 Practical Rules and Receipts for Builders, Etc. \ 

HOW TO MAKE A PERMANENT OUT-DOCx< \ 
WHITEWASH. 
Take good lime and slake it in sour milk, and whet) 
slaked dilute with water until it is of the consistency of 

ordinary whitewash, then apply with a brush. j 

Another Method.— Slake the lime with sufficient watei ' 

to make a thick mush. While still hot stir into it a pound i 
or more of tallow to a peck of lime. Then thin the lime 

with water and apply with a brush. It is best to have a i 

iittle fire to keep the lime warm while using it i 

HOW TO PURIFY SINKS AND DRAINS. j 

To one pound of common copperas add one gallon of ^ 

boiling water, and use when dissolved. The copperas is j 
deadly poison, and should always be carefully labeled, if 

kept on hand. This is one of the best possible cleansers of • 

pipes and drains. ! 

HOW TO CLEAN GILT FRAMES. 

When the gilt frames of pictures or looking-glasses, or < 

the gilt mouldings of rooms have specks of dirt upon them, i 

from flies or other causes, they can be cleaned with the " 
white of an egg, gently rubbed on with a camel-hair penciL 

HOW TO MAKE A PERFECT HOLE IN A PIECE ' 

OF GLASS. j 

First cover the glass with a little stiff clay or putty where ' 
you desire to drill the hole. Then make a hole into the 
clay, or putty, the size of the desired hole to be made 
through the glass. Then pour into this hole a little melted 

lead, and unless the glass is very thick, it will make a per* } 

lect and regular hole. 1 

HOW TO POLISH WOOD. ] 

Take the plain surface of any timber or board and soak J 

it m linseed-oil for a week, and then rub it briskly for a few 1 

mmutes with a new cloth every day for ten days, and it will j 

produce a beautiful glossy surface. \ 

HOW xo REMOVE OLD VARNISH. ; 

5 parts of 36 per cent, silicate of potash, \ 

I part of sal ammoniac, ' 

I part of 40 per cent, soda lye. j 

Mix, and ?.pply. ■ 



1 



Household Receipts. 



375 



TO REMOVE GLASS STOPPERS. 

When the stopper on a glass decanter is too tight, a 
cloth wet with hot water and applied to the neck will 
cause the glass to expand, and the stopper may be re- 
moved. In a phial, the warmth of the finger may be 
sufficient. Tapping the stopper with a penknife often has 
the desired effect, or, slowly revolve the neck of the bottle 
in the flame of a burning match. Remove the stopper be- 
fore the heat reaches it. Thick glass may require a second 
match. Never fails, nor does harm. Best thing I ever 
learned of. 

WHITEWASH THAT WILL KOT RUB OFF. 

Mix up a pailful of lime and water ready to put on the 
wall; then take one-fourth pint of flour, mix with water, 
then pour on it a sufficient quantity of boiling water to 
thicken it, and pour it while hot into the whitewash; stir 
all well together and use. 

TO REMOVE FLY SPOTS. 

Dip a camel-hair brush into spirits of wine, and apply 
it to remove fly spots. 

HOW TO PREPARE KALSOMINE. 
Soak one pound of glue twelve hours; then dissolve it 
in boiling water, and add eighteen or twenty pounds of 
paris white. Then dilute with water until the mixture is 
of the consistency of milk. To this mixture add any 
coloring that may be desired. 

A BEAUTIFUL REDWOOD FINISH. 

One quart spirits of lurpentihe. 
One tablespoon lul raw Hnseed oil. 
One tablespconful of brown japan, 
One-fourth pound burnt sienna, 
One pound of corn starch. 
Mix thoroughly, and apply with a brush. 



376 



How to Clean Carpets. 




HOW TO CLEAN CARPETS, MATTING}, ETC. 

1. Sprinkle salt over it; then sweep it well and it will 
make an old carpet look almost like new. 

2. Take warm water and pour in a little ammonia and 
wipe carpet with a large sponge or soft rag. This will 
also take out grease spots should there be any. 

3. A weak solution of alum or soda will brighten up 
the colors wonderfully. Use warm water. 

4. Fresh green grass dampened a little and spreaa upon 
the carpet and then swept up will brighten and beautify 
a carpet. It is much better than tea leaves, for it will leave 
no stains. 

5. Never use soap or hot water on oil cloth. 

6. Always beat a carpet on the wrong side first. 

KEROSENE STAINS IN CARPETS. 

Kerosene stains in carpets m.ay be removed by sprink- 
ling buckwheat flour over the spot. If one sprinkling is 
not enough, repeat. 



Cleaning Carpets. 



ml 



SPONGING CARPETS. 

I Carpets need seldom know the wear and tear of a broom, 
if sponged once a week, and will look brighter and really 
be cleaner than if swept by a broom. Take a pail of 
water and put in a little soap to soften it, or two teaspoon- 
fuls of liquid ammonia. Begin in one corner, using the 
sponge so that it will not drip, and wipe over a space about 
two feet square, then pick from the sponge all the hair, 
lint, and other substance that adheres to it. Go over the 
remaining space in the same manner. A carpet-sweeper 
is indispensable to every well-regulated household, par- 
ticularly when one has been sewing to such an extent 
as to litter the floor. 

STRAW MATTING. 

Straw matting should not be washed any oftener than 
is absolutely necessary, and then it should be wiped 
dry with a clean cloth. 

Straw matting can be cleaned beautifully by using warm 
water and salt and then rubbing dry with a cloth to avoid 
turning yellow. 

A SUGGESTION FOR SWEEPING DAY. 

When sweeping a room there is nothing better to aid 
in collecting the dust than newspaper. Take a sheet 
of newspaper at a time, wet it in hot water and press be- 
tween the hands until it ceases to drip, then tear it into 
pieces and throw them over the carpet. Then sweep, and 
most of the dust will gather on the wet paper. On m.iiting 
if large pieces of wet paper are pushed ahead of the broom 
they will take the light flufif that is likely to fly back and 
lodge. 

A CARPET CLEANING MIXTURE. 

The following is an excellent mixture for cleaning car- 
pets : 

Dissolve four ounces of white castile soap (or any pure 
make) in four quarts of boiling water. When cool add five 
ounces of aqua ammonia, two and one-half ounces alcohol, 
same amount of glycerine, and two ounces ether. Cork 
tightly. To clean a carpet use about a teacupful to a pail 
of water. To clean a soiled coat, or black garment, use 
two tablespoonfuls to a pint of strong black coffee. To 
remove grease spots, use without diluting. 



Practical Rules and keccii>ts for Builders, Etc, 




Practical Rules and Receipts for Builders, Carpenters, Wood 
Workers and House-Keepers. 

1. Moisture-proof glue is made by dissolving 16 ounces of 
glue in 3 pints of skim milk. To make the glue still stronger 
add a little powdered lime. 

2. Shellac and borax, boiled iu water will, make a good stinu 
for floors or other wood-work. 

3. Porch floors should be made of narrow boards, and tho. 
joints laid in white lead. 

4. A common brick will absorb about a pint of water, and a 
house built of brick, without a dead wall, is liable to be very 
damp. 

5. A Closet, finished with red cedar shelves and drawer?, i.^ 
sure proof against moths and other insects. 

6. Oak floors will stand dampness better than Rinp-?. 

7. It is much better to oil floors than to paint them. A 
monthly rubbing will keep them as good as new. 

8. Do not construct solid doors of two kinds of harawood. 
Changes in the weather will cause one to warp more than the 
other, and consequently great difficulty will be experienced. 

TO FILL CRACKS IN PLASTER. 

Use vinegar instead of water to mix your plaster of Pai ;s- 
The resultant mass will be like putty, and will not "set" tc • 
20or 30 minutes, whereas, if you use water, the plaster wiif 
become liard almost immediately, before you have time to 
use it. Push it into the cracks and smooth it off nicely uiih 
i. tableknife- 



Household Receipts. 



879 



TO PREVENT KUST 0\ IRON OR STEEL. 

Take i pint of fat oil varnish, mixed with five pints of 
highly rectified spirits of turpentine, and rub with a 
sponge. This varnish may be applied to bright stoves, 
and even to mathematical instruments, without hurting 
their delicate polish, and they will never contract any spots 
of rust. 

HOW TO POLISH MCKEL PLATE. 

Apply rouge with a little fresh lard on a piece of buck- 
skin. Rub the nickel, using as little of the rouge and oil 
as possible, and then wipe ofif with a clean rag slightly 
oiled. 

HOW TO POLISH ZINC. 

4 ounces powdered rotten stone, 

2 ounces pumice stone, 

4 ounces oxalic acid. 
Add 2 quarts of rainwater. Mix thoroughly, and let it 
stand two days before using. Apply the polish to the zinc 
with a dry woolen cloth or chamois skin. 

HOW TO REMOVE RUST FROM IRON. 

Take the iron and immerse it in a bath of nearly saturat- 
ed solution of chloride of tin and leave it there from twelve 
to twenty-four hours, according to the thickness of the 
rust. 

HOW TO CLEAN RUSTY STEEL. 

Apply and cleanse with the following preparation: 
8 parts of prepared buck's-horn. 
10 parts of tin putty, 
25 parts of spirits of wine. 
Mix into a paste and apply, and then rub off with a soft 
blotting paper. 



380 



How to Make Vinegar. 




HOW TO MAKE ALL KINDS OF VINEGAR. 



Cider Yinegar. 

Vinegar making is easy enough if you have good cider 
and patience. Keep the barrel in a warm place, filled up 
to the bimg, refiliing as needed. When done working 
draw off into an old vinegar barrel, filling it not over 
two-thirds full. Keep the bung hole covered with a piece 
of screen to exclude vinegar flies. If kept in a warm 
place it may make good strong vinegar in less than six 
months' time. In an ordinary cellar it will take longer. 

Common Vinegar. 

8 gallons rain water, 

3 quarts molasses, 

2 yeast cakes. 
Shake well. Put in a warm place, and in ten days add a 
sheet of wrapping paper covered with molasses and torn 
into strips; it makes the mother. 

Vinegar for Picltles. 

4 quarts of vinegar; 2 cups of sugar; 3 nutmegs, grated; 
2 large onions, sliced; ^ cup of grated horse-radish; i 
ounce of mustard seed; i ounce of celery seed; i ounce of 
salt; Yi ounce of mace, Yz ounce of black pepper; i ounce 
of allspice. 



How to Make All Kinds of Vinegar. 381 



Vinegar for Sweet Pickle. 

6 pounds of fruit; 2 pounds of sugar; i quart of vinegar; 
2 ouncas of cassia buds or cloves. 

Vinegar for Spiced Tomatoes. 

I quart of vinegar; 2 ounces of sugar; i ounce of cloves; 
I ounce of cinnamon; i ounce of allspice; i ounce of grouiiU 
black pepper. 

Vineg-ar for Green Tomato Pickle. 

3 chopped red peppers; a handful of grated horseradish; 
gallon of vinegar; Y2 pound of sugar, 

Yinegar for Sweet Pickled Peaches and Apples. 

4 pounds of sugar; i quart of vinegar; 2 ounces of un- 
ground cinnamon. 

TO MAKE VINEGAR WITHOUT FRUIT. 

Inexpensive methods for making vinegar without the 
use of any fruit. 

1. Molasses, one quart; yeast, one pint; warm rainwater, 
three gallons; put all into a jar or keg, and tie a piece of 
gauze over the bung, to keep out the flies and let in the 
air. In hot weather set it in the sun, in cold weather by 
the stove or in the chimney-corner. In three weeks you 
will have good vinegar. 

2. The cheapest mode of making good vinegar is to 
mix five quarts of warm rainwater with two quarts of 
New Orleans molasses and four quarts of yeast. In a 
few weeks you will have the best vinegar you ever tasted. 

3. To make vinegar from acetic acid and molasses, take 
of acetic acid two pounds, of molasses one-half gallon, 
and put them into a twenty-gallon cask. Fill it up with 
rainwater; shake it up and let stand from orie to three 
weeks, and you will have good vinegar. If this does not 
make it as sharp as you like, add a little molasses. Acetic 
acid is concentrated vinegar. Take one pint of this acid, 
and add seven times as much soft water, and you have 
jast as good a pure white vinegar as can be made from 
cider, and that instantaneously. 



382 



How to Raise Canaries. 




HOW TO RAISE CANARIES AND KEEP THEM 
HEALTHY AND IN GOOD SONG 

1. In summer keep them out of doors in some cool and 
shady place. 

2. In fall, winter or spring, hang the cage so that no 
draught of air can strike the bird. 

3. Give nothing to healthy birds but rape, hemp, 
canary seed, water, cuttle-fish bone, and gravel paper or 
sand on the floor of the cage. 

4. A bath three times a week. 

5. The room should not be overheated. 

6. When moulting keep warm and avoid all draughts 
of air. 

7. Give plenty of German summer rape seed. A little 
hard boiled egg mixed with cracker, grated fine, once or 
twice a week, is excellent. 

8. Feed at a certain hour in the morning. 

DISEASES AND CURES. 

Q. Husk or Asthma. — The curatives are aperients, such 
as endive, water cresses, bread and milk and red pepper. 

10. Pip.— Mix the pepper, butter and garlic and swab 
out the throat. 

11. Sweating-.— Wash the hen in salt water, and dry 
rapidly. 

12. Costiveness. — Plenty of green food and fruit. 

13. Lice.— Keep a saucer of fresh water in the cage, and 
the bird will free itself. 



Frcsit Flowers. 



383 



14. Overgrown Claws or Beak.— Pare carefully with a 
sharp knife. 

15. Moulting-.— Give plenty of good f',.od and keep warm. 
Saffron and a rusty nail put into their drinking water is 
excellent. 

16. Loss of Voice. Feed with paste of bread, lettuce and 
rape seed with yolk of egg. Whisky and sugar is a good 
remedy. 

17. To keep insects out of bird cages, tie up a little 
powdered sulphur in a bag and hang it in the top of the 
cage. 



To keep flowers fresh exclude them from the ^ir. To do 
this, wet them thoroughly, put in a damp box, and cover 
with wet, raw cotton or newspaper, then place in a cool 
spot. To preserve bouquets, put a little saltpetre in the 
water you use in your vases, and the flowers will live for 
a fortnight. 

Flower Hints.— Always pull the leaves off the stalks of 
flowers before putting them in water — those which would 
be in the water, not those above it. And with flowers 
from any hard-stalked sort of shrub the bark should be 
peeled ofif as well as the leaves. The flowers live ever so 
much longer if these precautions are taken. A scrap of 
charcoal in the water is also a great preservative. 

When Flowers Wilt. — Cut the stems and plunge them 
into hot water. It is marvelous what a reviving effect this 
will have. 




TO KEEP FLOWERS FRESH. 



384 How to Enlarge Portraits and Pictures. 




HOW TO ENLAR(iE PORTRAITS AND PICTURES 

FOR PAINTING AND DRAWING. 
— ALSO — 

H«w to Enlarge Embroidery, Braiding Patterns, Mats, Engrav- 
ing Capital Letters, Scrolls, Music, Etc. 

1. The Delineator, as shown in the above engraving, is 
fastened to a table or board with a little screw or awl. The 
Jittle steel point at "A" rests on the picture or work to be 
copied. The pencil in the hand copies as fast as the steel 
point traces the small picture. The Delineator \s set to enlarge 
four times by the little finger screws "B and C." If you wish 
your picture the same size as the copy, put the screws at 
Tiumber one. If you wish your picture twelve times as large 
as the copy, put the screws in number twelve In each of the 
four bars. 

2. Keep the pencil sharpened under the hand. It is not 
necessary to watch the pencil in the movements of the hand, 
but to watch the steel point at "A." 

3. Now any one can easily make a delineator, by going to 
••he hardware store and securing a few little screws, as shown 
m tlie cut, and then making or securing four little pieces of 
vood, as shown In the illustration, of about two feet in length. 
U pictures are to be very much enlarged, the sticks maybe 
made larger, so that the delineator may enlarge twenty-five 
or one hundred times. 



How to take Measures for Patterns. o» j 




How to Take Measures for Patterns. 



Dresses, Coats, Vests, Pants and Shirts. 
To Measure for a Lady'' 9 Basque or any Garment requiring a 
Bust MeaaiLre to be taken : — Put the measure around the body. 
OVER the dress, close under the arms, drawing it closely— noi 
too tight. 

To Measure for a Lady*s Skirt or Overskirt : — Put the measure 
around the waist, over the dress. 

To Meamre for a Ladnfi Sleeve:— Tut the measure around 
the muscular part of the upper arm, about an inch below the 
lower part of the arm's-eye, drawing the tape closely— not 
too tight. 

Take the measure for Misses' and Little Girls' Patterns the 
same as for Ladies'. In ordering, give the ages also. 

To Measure for a Boy^s Coat or Vest: ~ Put the measure 
around the body, under the jacket, close under the arms, 
drawing it closely — not too tight. 

To Measiire for a Boy's Overcoat .'—Measure about the breast 
OVER the garment the coat is to be worn over. 

To Measure for Trousers :— Tut the measure around the body, 
OVER the trousers at the waist, drawing it closely— not too 
tight. 

To Meamre for a 5Airi.'— For the size of the neck, measure 
the exact size where the collar encircles it, and allow one 
Inch— thus, if the exact size be fourteen inches, use a Pattera 
marked 15 inches. In other words, give the size of the collar 

t rie shirt is to be worn with. For the breast, put the meas- 
ure around the body, under the jacket or coat, close und^ 
the arms, drawing it closely— not too tight. 



336 Hov) to tak/: Measure, fnr Clothes^ 




How to Take the Measure for a Suit of Clothes. 

Take these Measures over the Vest: inches 
*'rom 1 at center of back of neck, round the inside edge 

■of the collar, to height required from top button ....>. 

Srom top button to 2 for length in front 

From 3 to 4 round breast ^ 

From E to 6 round waist 

MEASURE FOR PANTS. 

From A to B round waist , 

From C to D, top to bottom 

From center to fork, close up, down to K, for length of 

leg inside, the leg straight down , 

P to G round the seat. 

L round the knee - ~ 

From H to i round bottom - « 

Take these Measures outside (he Coat: 

From A to B 

Continuing on to C for full length ...... ...i^.., 

From H to 1 for elbow joint 

Continuing on toK for length of sleeve 

Take these Measures under the Coat : 

Tiom L) to E round the breast 

From F to G round the waist.. , 

FOR AN OVERCOAT. 

Take the last two measures over the uotjerco?!*. , ultte othen 



How to Clean Necktiei, Ribbons and Silk. yi^'* 




How to Ciearv !VccKties. Ribbons. Etc. 
Gel a quart tniil-iur wiiU ri;lil>ri asifl c^ver , halt fiJ! it witll 
aapluna and \n\\. %\w ties m, tl>e winle oii»io b> t!ien>s. ;ve and 
first of al). ilavin<» screwed the cover down ti-;litiv sliaUe tlie 
jar about for some miiiuies. when tlie riut will alumst l-e en- 
tirely removed. If necessary, repeat, the process, fcniooth 
them out carefully, and pat any streaked or discolored j)laceH 
with a bit of cloth— an old handkerchief will do nicely i'hen 
aang them in the air to dry and allow the odor to evaporate. 
It is best to leave them out some days. A bit of mosquito 
netting or cheese cloth will be required to cover them from 
dust or flies. The darker ties may be put in tlie same napht iia 
It is well to have two jars: one for first washing, anulhei for 
the second dipping if necessary. The na))htha should e kept 
in a close-stojypered bot.tie, and such work should always be 
done by dayliglil m a room vvitlmnt, a fire and witii open win- 
dows, if possible, as tlie vapor trom naphtha is highly inflame 
mable. 

How to Clean Silk. 

2b jSmoce (rVmsp .S;w/.v.— Scrnpe French ciialk tine, moisten 
to a stilf paste with .soap-suds: make into small H it cakes and 
dry in the sun or oven. Wlu-n a sp:)t is to be cleaned, ncrape 
one of the kes to a powde' , cover the spot with it, laying the 
Bilk on a \\. '^r- or cotton cloth. Lay several folds of tissue 
paper upon thf chalk, and press with a hot iron for several 
minutes, taking c.ire it doe^ not touch the silk. 

To WaxhSiih.- — Mix together 'icnps cold water, 1 tat>' '.snnfn) 
loney, 1 tablespoonful soft soap, 1 wine glass a)c( n Lay 
jhe silk on a board, sponge both sides with it. rubbi,.^ it \n 
well. Shake up and down in a tub of cold water. Shake drv 
iiut do not wring it. Ix'on on the wrong side while it is verv 
lamp. 



388 



Hoiv to Dye Cloth in Permanent Colors. 




For Cotton Goods, Woolen, Silk, Etc. 
YELLOW. 

To color yellow, take 1 ounce of bichromate of potash and 
2 ounces of sug^ar of lead. Dissolve them separately in as 
much hot water as will cover the goods. Dip into potash 
water first. 

The above will color two pounds of cotton goods. 
BLUE. 

Dissolve 1 ounce Prussian blue and 2 ounces oxalic acid 
in enough cold water to cover the goods. Will color two 
pounds of cotton goods. 

GREEN. 

Dissolve 1 ounce of Prussian blue in cold water. Let 
goods remain in over night, then proceed as for yellow. 

BLACK. 

Soak the cloth in acetate of iron mordant, and then boil 
in a decoction of madder and logwood. 

For Woolen Goods, Silks, Linens, Etc. 

Use Diamond Dyes. The colors will remain permanent 
in woolens, silks and linens, but for cotton cloth thev are 
not satisfactory. 



Paints. 



389 



HOW TO MIX PAINTS OF VARIOUS COLORS. 



Buff— White, yellow ochre and red. 

Chestnut— Red, black and yellow. 

Chocolate— Raw umber, red and black. 

Claret— Red, umber and black. 

Copper— Red, yellow and black. 

j)ove— White, vermilion, blue and yellow. 

Drab— White, yellow ochre, red and black. 

Fawn— White, yellow and red. 

Flesh— White, yellow ochre and vermilion. 

Freestone— Red, black, yellow oclue and white 

French Grey— White, prussian blue and lake. 

Grey— White lead and black. 

Gold— White, stone ochre and red. 

Green Bronze— Chrome green, black and yellow. 

Green Pea— White and chrome groen 

Lemon— White and chrome yellow. 

Limestone— White, yellow ochre, black «,ua red, 

Olive— Yellow, blue, black and white. 

Orange— Yellow and red. 

Peach— White and vermilion. 

Pearl— White, black and blue. 

Pink— White, vermilion and lake. 

Purple— Violet, with more red and whitb. 

Hose— White and madder lake 

Sandstone— White, yellow ochre, black and rett. 

SnufE— Yellow and Vandyke browa. 

Violet— Red, blue and white 




A correspondent asks us a 
question ou this subject, and 
we have no doubt there are 
numerous painter's manuals, 
or books of instruction, in ex- 
istence; but many of these 
are not very reliable. We 
give the following table of 
compound colors, showing the 
simple colors which prnducit 
them, which may be of som« 
service to our inquirer. 



•1 



Paints. — Hoiv to Tan Hides. 



In the preceding table of the combination of colors 
required to produce a desired tint, the first-named color is 
always the principal ingredient, and the others follow in 
the ordei of their importance. Thus in mixing a limestone 
tint, white is the principal ingredient, and the red the coloi 
of which the least is needed. The exact proportions of each 
color must be determined' by experiment with a smaller 
quantity. It is best to have the principal ingredient thick, 
iU.i add to it the other paints thinner 




floui to Tan ]4ides cuith Hs^if On. 

A cheap and simple process is to apply to the flesh side, 
when frebh and wet, a mixture of two parts of saltpeter and 
one part alum. These should be finely pulverized and 
sprinkled over every part of the skin; double in flesh to 
fljsh, roll up and let it lie a day or two; then with a dull 
knife remove the flesh and fat, if any has been left. When 
about half dry, commence rubbing and continue working 
until dry. The skin will be found very nice, white and pli- 
able, and the hair fiimly set. 



How to Make Cements, Etc. 



391 




HOW TO MAKE ALL KLNDS OF GLUE, PASTE, 
MUCILAGE, ETC. 



TO CEMENT BROKEN CHINA, ETC. 

Beat the whites of eggs well to a froth, let them settle; 
add soft grated or sliced cheese and quicklime; beat 
them well together, and apply a little to the broken edges. 
This cement will endure both fire and water. Another 
^ood receipt, and which is nearly colorless, is the fol- 
lowing: Dissolve Yi. ounce of gum acacia in a wineglass 
of boiling water, add plaster of Paris sufficient to form a 
thick paste, and apply it with a brush to^ the parts re- 
quired to be cemented together. 

CHEAP WATERPROOF GLUE. 

Melt common glue with the smallest possible quantity 
of water; add, by degrees, linseed oil, rendered drying 
by boiling with litharge. While the oil is being added, 
the ingredients must be well stirred, to incorporate them 
thoroughly. 

PAPER AND LEATHER PASTE. 

Cover 4 parts, by weight, of glue with 15 parts of cold 
water and allow it to soak for several hours; then warm 
moderately until the solution is perfectly clear, and dilute 
with 60 parts of boiling water, thoroughly stirred in. Next 
prepare a solution of 30 parts of starch in 200 parts of 
cold water, so as to form a thin homogeneous liquid, free 
from lumps, and pour the boiling glue solution into it with 
thorough stirring, and at the same time keep the mass 
boiling. 



392 



Cheap and Beautiful Ink. 




INDELIBLE INK FOR MARKING CLOTHING. 

5 scruples nitrate of silver, 
2 drachms gum arabic, 
I scruple sap green, 
I ounce distilled water. 
Mix together. Before using on the article to be marked, 
apply a little of the following: 

ounce carbonate of soda, 
4 ounces distilled water. 
Let this last, which is the mordant, get dry; then with 
a quill pen write what you require. 

HOW TO MAKE INVISIBLE INK FOR POSTAL 
CARDS. 

2 ounces of water, 

% ounce of cobalt, dissolved in a little muriatic acid, 
1/2 drachm of mucilage of gum acacia. 
Write on paper with this liquid and it remains invisi- 
ble until heated. On cooling it becomes invisible again. 

INK FOR MARKING PACKAGES. 

Take lamp black and mix thoroughly with sufificient 
turpentine to make it thin enough to flow from the brush. 
Powdered ultra marine blue makes a fine blue marking 
ink. ^ 



Inks. 893 



HOW TO MAKE YOUR OWN INKS AT A TRIFLING 
COST. 




Black Ink. 



Take one package of Diamond Slate Dye and dissolve in 
a pint of boiling water. It will make a pint of excellent 
jet black ink at the small cost of ten cents. 

Red, Green, Purple, Blue or Yellow Ink. 
Take ten grains of the desired color of aniline and mix 
with one ounce of soft water, in which about fifteen grains 
of gum arabic have been dissolved. A bottle of ink of any 
of the above colors can be made at a cost of five cents. 
White Ink. 

Mix pure Flake White with water containing enough 
gum arabic to prevent the immediate settling of the sub- 
stance. 

Five cents' worth of Flake White will make a bottle of 
ink. 

Gold or Silver Ink. 

Take ten cents' worth of gold or silver bronze and mix 
with water containing gum arabic to the thickness of ordi- 
nary mucilage, and apply to pen with a small brush or 
stick. 

Many of the high-priced inks that are advertised and 
sold as mineral inks are nothing more or less than the 
above preparations. 

Indelible Ink. 

Nitrate of silver, 50 grains; tartaric acid. 40 grains; car- 
mine, No. 40, 5 grair.s; liquor ammonia, ]/> ounce; mucil- 
age of gum arab'ic, ^ ounce. Dissolve the nitrate of silver 
in the ammonia, and add the tartaric acid; then rub the 
carmine with the solution, then add the mucilage. 



394 Hovt i<f Make Dressings for Boots and Sho^s, 




JtMV to Make all Kinds of Blacking, Oil and Dressing for 
Boots and Siioes. 

TO MAKE SHOES OR BOOTS WATERPROOF. 
Melt together, equal quantities of beeswax ana multon 
suet. While liquid rub it over the leather, including the 
coles. 

TO SOFTEN BOOTS AND SHOES. 

Kerosene will soften boots and shoes which have been 
Wdened by water, and render them as pliable as new. 

LIQUID BLACKING. 

2 pounds ivory black. 

1 pound sweet oil. 

2 pounds molasses. 

Rub together till well mixed ; then add oil of vitriol, H 
und, course sugar Yz pound ; dilute with beer bottoms, 
lis cannot be excelled. 
WATERPROOF COMPOUND, FOR LEATHER BOOTS, SHOES, itto. 
8 ounces suet. 
8 ounces linseed oil. 
6 ounces yellow beeswax. 
1 ounces neatsfoot oil. 
I ounce lamp black. 
14. ounce litharge. 
Jl^\ together, and stir till cold. 

BLACKING FOR LADIES' SHOES. 
3 ounces of Gum Shellac. 
1 % ounces of Aqua Ammonia. 
ID ounces of water. 
Boil until the shellac has dissolved. Then add & little 
black Aniline for coloring, and add water enough to mak^ 
About 2o ounces. 



How to Make Cements, Etc. 



395 



PREPARED GLUE FOR CONSTANT USE. 
To any quantity of glue use common whiskey instead of 
water. Put the bits of glue, well broken up, into a bottle ; fill 
up with the spirit, and set it in a closet, or where it is warm 
tor a week ; then it will be ready to use without the applica- 
tion of heat. 

Glue thus prepared will keep for years, and will be fit for ns6 
at all times, unless the weather is very cold, then place the 
bottle in boiling water for a few moments. To obivate the 
difficulty of the stopper becoming tight from the glue, it is a 
good plan to make the glue in a tin box, and the cover will fit 
on tightly without sticking. It must be closed tight or the 
spirit will evaporate. 

MUCILAGE FOR LABELS. 

2 ounces dextrine, i ounce alcohol, 

I drachm glycerine, 6 ounces water. 

PASTE FOR PAPERING BOXES. 
Boil water and stir in batter of wheat or rye flour. Let it 
boil one minute, take off and strain through a colander. Add, 
while boiling, a little glue or powdered alum. Do plenty of 
stirring while the paste i? cooking and make of consistency 
that n'xW spread nicely. 

PASTE FOR SCRAP BOOKS. 

Take half a teaspoonful of staich, same of flour, pour on a 
little boiling water, let it stand a minute, add more water, 
stir and cook it until it is thick enough to starch a shirt bosom. 
It spreads smooth, sticks well and will not mold or discolor 
paper. Starch alone will make a very good paste. Adding 
ID drops of oil of clover to >^ pmt of this preparation will 
make it more permanent. 

COMMON MUCILAGE FOR HOME AND 
BUSINESS USE. 
Take one ounce of gum arabic and reduce it to the con- 
sistency of common mucilage by pouiing warm water on it, 
and let it stand a few hours. This makes a very good 
mucilage, and it costs but a trifle. 



396 



How to Improve Leather. 



HOME-MADE MUCILAGE. 

Boil a good-sized onion for a short time and squeeze the 
juice out. It is adhesive and answers the purpose as well 
as the bought article. 

(}um Arabic and gum tragacanth in equal parts, dis- 
solved in hot w^ater, make the best and most convenient 
mucilage to keep in the house. 

now TO IMPROYE LEATHER. 
To Soften Leather. — Castor oil is the best thing with 
which to soften leather. 
To RemoTe Grease Stains from leather apply benzine 

and afterward the beaten white of an egg. 

Best Dressing'. — Vaseline is said to be one of the best 
dressings for russet shoes, and spirits of turpentine the 
correct thing for cleaning and brightening patent leather. 

You Can Telia Woman by Her Shoes.— Slovenly shoes 
a slatternly person; neat and clean shoes, a natty and nice 
little woman. So it is well to look after this small detail. 
If your kid "uppers" lack the freshness of the new article, 
the following will be found a cheap and good renovator: 
Yolk of one egg, one ounce of castor oil, one drachm of 
turpentine, two drachms of gum arable, three ounces of 
writing ink. 

Something' Abont While Slioes.— A light evening toilet 
is not complete without white shoes or slippers; and a 
white shoe that is soiled is execrable. There are many 
popular fallacies in this world; one is that raw eggs are 
not good t» eat, and another that white shoes are perish- 
able. Perishable, indeed! My white shoes have lasted 
me longer than any shoes I have ever had, and with noth- 
ing more than a little "elbow grease" to preserve them. 
Any druggist will sell you ten cents worth of pipe clay. 
And who does not possess an old tooth brush? With 
th.ese two articles there is no excuse for the dustiness 
of your white shoes. Use the pipe clay dry, taking care 
always to rub the way of the grain, so as not to roughen 
the suede. Do not be afraid to brush hard, or to get 
too much of the clay on the shoe. You cannot get too 
riiuch OH, and imless you are an athlete, with an arm 
of iron, I do not believe you can brush too hard. Pipe 
clay, used in the same way, will also clean trimmings of 
white cloth if they are excessively soiled. Use the clay 
wet; it will make them look badly at first, but if brushed 
CJ^efuUy with a clean brush and frc^h water, it will dry 
ofT in a most satisfactory manner. I have kept a little 



Ij'o'-jj to Clean Statuary and Marble. 



397 



v.'hite broadcloth waistcoat, collar and cuffs clean in this 
way for two years. While undressed kid gloves may 
also be cleaned in this way. It is with pipe clay that the 
men in the British army keep their white gloves and the 
white in their uniforms so immaculately clean. 

STATU ARI A^D MARBLE. 

To Clean Statuary. — Use a very weak solution of oxal'c 
acid applied with a suli tooth brush. This will cleanse th.; 
finest pieces ot statuary. 

1. To Clean Marble mix two parts of powdered whiting 
wiih one of powdered bluing and half a pound of soft soap 
and allow it to come to a boil; while still hot apply with a 
soft cloth to the discolored marble and allow it to remain 
there until quite dry; then wash off with hot water and 
soap in which a little salts of lemon has been dissolved. 
Dry well wi;h a piece of soft flannel and your marble will 
be clean and white. 

2. To Clean Marb'e.— Take two parts of common soda, 
one part of pumice stone, and one part of finely powdered 
chalk; sift it through a fine sieve, and mix it with water; 
then rub it well all over the marble, and the stains will be 
removed; then wash the marble over with soap and water, 
and it will be as clean as it was- at first. 

Marble May Be Cleaned by mixing up a quantity of 
the strongest soap-lees with quicklime, to the consistence 
of milk, and laying on the marble for 24 hours; clean it 
afterwards with soap and water. 

Caution. — While these are excellent for cleaning ordinary 
marble, they would ruin fine statuary. For cleaning fine 
statuary see above. 

To Take Ink Stains Out of Mahogany.— Put a few 

drops of spirits of nitre in a teaspoonful of water, touch 
the spot with a feather dipped in the mixture, and on the 
ink disappearing, rub it over immediately with a rag 
wetted in cold water, or there will be a white mark, which 
will not be easily effaced. 

To Take Ink Sta ns Out of a Colored Table-Cover.— 
Dissolve a teaspoonful of oxalic acid in a teacup of hot 
water; rub the stained part well with the solution. 

To Take Ink Out of Boards.— Strong muriatic acid, or 
spirits of salts, applied with a piece of cloth; afterwards 
well washed with water. 



BOOK IV. 




WOMAN'S FRIEND. 

A COMPLETE 
COOK BOOK. 



399 



400 



Art of Cooking. 



THE ART OF COOKING. 

" The number of inhabitants who may be supported in any country 
apon its internal produce depends about as much upon the state of 
the art of cookery as upon that of agriculture ; but if cooliery be of so 
much importance, it certainly deserves to be studied with the greatest 
of care. Cookery and agriculture are arts of civilized nations. Sav- 
ages understand neither of them."— Counf Rumford''^ Works, Vol. i. 

The importance of the art of cookery is very great; in- 
deed, from the richest to the poorest the selection and 
preparation of food often becomes the chief object in life. 
The rich man's table is luxuriously spread; no amount of 
money is spared in procuring the rarest delicacies of the 
season. Art and nature alike contribute to his necessi- 
ties. The less wealthy have, indeed, fewer resources; yet 
these may be greatly increased by the knowledge of what 
may be called trifling details and refinement in the art of 
cookery, which depends much more on the manner of 
doing a thing than on the cost attending it. To cook well, 
therefore, is immensely more important to the middle and 
working classes than to the rich, for they who live by the 
"sweat of their brow," whether mentally or physically, 
must have the requisite strength to support their labor. . 
Even to the poor, whose very life depends upon the prod- 
uce of the hard-earned dollar, cookery is of the greatest 
importance. Every wife, mother or sister should be a 
good plain cook. If she has servants she can direct them, 
and if not, so much the more must she depend upon her- 
self. To such we venture to give a tew general hints. An 
old saying (to be found in one of the earliest cookery 
books) : "First catch your hare, etc.," has more signif- 
icance than is generally supposed. To catch your hare 
well you must spend your income judiciously. This is the 
chief thing. In our artificial state of society, every in- 
come, to keep up appearances, has at least half as much 
more to do than it can afford. In the selection of provi- 
sions, the best is generally the cheapest. Half a pound of 
good meat is more nutritious than three times the amount 
of inferior. As to vegetables, buy them fresh. Above all, 
where an income is small and there are many to feed, be 
careful thdt all e nourishment is retained in the food that 
is purchased. This is to be effected by careful cooking. 
Cleanliness is an imperative condition. Let all cooking 
utensils be clean and in order. Uncleanliness produces 
disorder, and disorder confusion. Time and money are 
thus wasted, dinners spoiled, and all goes wrong. 



Hints for the Cook. 



401 




HINTS FOR THE COOK. 

Tumblers that have been used for milk should never 
be put into hot water until they have been first rinsed 
in cold water. The heat drives the milk in, and gives a 
cloudy appearance to the glass, which cannot be removed. 

Meats never allowed to boil will be more tender than 
those that cook hard. Tough meats become tender by 
proper cooking, while the reverse of this is equally true. 
Hard boiling in salt water will toughen the best piece 
of meat ever sold. 

An excellent substitute for potatoes at a dinner is 
rice, cooked in milk and well salted, put into a dish and 
browned in the oven. Make a hot lemon sauce and pour 
it over the rice when it is taken from the oven and just be- 
fore the dish is sent to the table. 

Old potatoes are made mealy by being soaked for an 
hour in cold water after being peeled. When boiling 
they should be cooked in salted water; when the po- 
tatoes are soft, turn off the water, leave the potatoes in 



40J 



Hints on Seasoning, 



covered kettle to dry off all steam. They will be nearly 
as nice as new ones. 

Butter that has become stale may be made sweet for 
pastry by boiling it in plenty of water and a liitle 
soda, a teaspoonful being enough for four or five pounds. 
Let it get cold, take the cake oflf and boil again in clear 
water. When it is cold, scrape the bottom dry and 
pack away for use. 

HI]\TS OX SEASONIiNG. 

Sliced onion fried in butter or in butter and flour, 
and rubbed through a sieve and put into soups just 
before serving, gives a fine flavor and good color. 

A dash ot biack pepper greatly improves vanilla ice 
cream. 

Make snow cake with arrowroot flour; the flavor is 
delicious. 

Bean soup is much improved by adding a little mace 
just before serving. 

When making corn bisque, use cayenne with a little 
sugar for seasoning. 

Add a cup of good cider vinegar to the water in 
which you boil fish, especially salt water fish. 

Boston baked beans can be greatly improved by ad- 
ding a cup of sweet cream the last hour of baking. 

Place on top of fish when baking thin slices of salt 
pork; it will baste the fish and the seasoning is fine. 

Piit sugar into the water used for basting meats of 
all kinds; it gives a good flavor to veal more especially. 

To give a fine flavor to corn beef hash use good soup 
stock for moistening, with a pinch of salt, sugar and 
cayenne. 

Th ree tablespoons of freshly-mace Japan tea, with 
a bit of nutmeg, gives an indescribable flavor to an apple 
pie. 

Put a few sticks of cinnamon bark and a little lemon 
juice with crab apple when making jelly; the flavor is 
good, or use pineapple instead of the lemon. 

To give an appetizing flavor to a broiled beefsteak, cut 
an onion in h df, and rub it over the hot platter with the 
melted butter. 

When flavoring has been forgotten in a pudding or 
cake, the fault may be remedied by rubbing the desired 
extrnct over the outside of the cake as soon as it is 
taken out of the oven. 



Golden Rules for the Kitchen. 



403 



GOLDEN RULES FOR THE KITCHEN. 

Without cleanliness and punctuality good 
cooking is impossible. 

Leave nothing dirty; clean and clear as 
you go. 

A time for everything and everything in time. 

A. good cook wastes nothing 

An hour lost in the morning has to be run 
after all day. 

Haste without hurry saves worry, fuss and 
flurry. 

Stew boiled is stew spoiled. 

Strong fire for roasting. 

Clear fire for broiling. 

Wash vegetables in three waters. 

Boil fish quickly, meat slowly. 



i04 



Meats. 



ADTICE TO COOKS. 

Importance of Cooking. — No matter how large tlie es- 
tablishment, no person holds a more important part than 
the cook, for with her rests not only the comfort, but 
the health of those she serves, and we would warn all 
cooks not to make light of their responsibilities, but to 
study diligently the tastes and wishes of all those for 
whom they have to prepare food. 

Cleanliness. — A dirty kitchen is a disgrace, both to mis- 
tress and maid, and cleanliness is a most essential in- 
gredient in the art of cooking. It takes no longer to ha\e 
a clean and orderly kitchen than an untidy and dirty 
one, for the time that is spent in keeping it in good order 
is saved when cooking operations are going on and every- 
thing is clean and in its place. 

Dress.— When at your work, dress suitably; wear short, 
plain gowns, well-fitting boots, and large aprons with 
bibs, of which every cook and kitchen maid should have 
a good supply, and you will be comfortable as you never 
can be with long dresses, small aprons, and slipshod 
shoes, the latter being most trying in a warm kitchen. 

Kitchen Supplies. — Do not let your stock of pepper, 
salt, spices, seasonings, etc., dwindle so low that there 
is danger, in the midst of preparing dinner, that you 
find yourself minus some very important ingredient, there- 
by causing much confusion and annoyance. 

MEATS. 

There seems to be a general impression that a con- 
tinued meat diet is absolutely essential and with some 
it seems to be unwise to omit it for a single meal. 

There is no civilized country in the world in which so 
much meat is eaten or in which so much is wasted 
by bad cooking, by profusion, or by absolute unthrift. 

We all eat too much meat, too much for our health, 
probably, and certainly too much for the well-being of our 
pocketbooks. Great, brawny Scotchmen live rtionth 
after month on oatmeal and buttermilk, and a healthier, 
harder working class of men it would be difficult to find 
The general health of the American would be greatly 
improved if the diet were to consist more of vegetables, 
grains and fruit and not so much of meat. 

Cooking Meat. — We are profuse in our provision of 
meat and then we are apt to cook it in the most waste- 
ful way. With many the sum total of a knowledge of 
cooking is to get a joint or a steak and roast or broil — 
say, rather, to bake or fry it, at a range or cooking 



Meats. 



405 



stove. Meat is often spoiled in the cooking. A very lit- 
tle piece of meat, nicely uroiled, with gravy m it, well 
seasoned with pepper and salt, a very little butter on it, 
and served up quite hot, will make a better and more 
nourishing meal than four times the amount badly cooked 
in the Irying pan 

The I'rying' Pan has almost, times without number, 
spoiled a good piece of meat. The frying pan is indispen- 
sable lor some things, but very bad for chops and steaks. 

A Golden Recipe.— In the cooking of meat by any 
process whatever, remember, above all, to cook the juices 
in it not out of it, 

Ruastin^. — In roasting meat, the gravy may be retained 
in it by pricking the joint all over with a fork and 
rubbing in pepper and salt. Mutton and beef may be 
overdone; veal and pork must be well cooked. Young 
meat generally requires more cooking than old; thus, lamb 
and veal must be more done than mutton and beef. In 
frosty weather meat will require a little more time for 
cooking. All joints for roasting will improve by hang- 
ing a day or so before cooking. 

Broiling'. —Broiling is the most nutritious method of 
cooking mutton and pork chops, or beef and rump steaks, 
kidneys (which should never be cut open before cooking), 
etc. Have the gridiron clean, and put over a clear fire; 
put the meat on it; "keep it turned often." This last is a 
common direction in books, but the reason why is never 
stated; it is to keep the gravy in the meat. By perinittinij the 
one side of a steak to be well done before turning, you will 
sec the red gravy settled on the top of the steakj and so 
the meat is hard and spoiled. This is cooking the gravy 
out of, instead of keeping it in, the meat to nourish the 
consumer. Never stick the fork into the meaty part ; you 
will lose gravy if you do so. Be sure t ) turn often, 
and generally the chop of steak is done if it feels firm to 
the fork; if not done it will be soft and flabby. It is 
economical to broil well. 

Boiling Meat. — If you put a piece of lean meat into cold 
water and heat it slowly, you tind that much of the nu- 
triment has been drawn out by the water and the meat 
has of course just in that proportion been made poor. 
The longer and slower the warming process, the more 
the nutritious substance is extracted. 

Soup Making. — This is the process when it is desired 
to have good soup. After some hours of cooking the 
meat becomes tasteless. A dog fed on that alone could 
not live many days. 



406 



Meats. 



Another Method of Boiliug Meat. — Put a piece of meat 
into boning water and continue the boiling. The sur- 
face of the meat suddenly wnitens and the nutritious sub- 
stance is thereby not permitted to escape from the meat, 
'ine outside of the meat is seared and the juices are kept 
in. The temperature must now be lowered or the meat 
will be "overcooked." If meats are allowed to boil too 
fast they toughen, all their juices are extracted, and only 
the flesh fiber, without sweetness, is left; if they boil too 
long they are reduced to a jelly and their nourishing 
properties are transferred to the water in which they are 
boiled. Nothing is more difficult than to boil meat ex- 
actly as it should be; close attention and good judgment 
are indispensable. 

Frying in Fat. — If we put a thin piece of meat, as a cut- 
let coated with eggs and bread crumbs, into boiling fat, 
the albumen in the surface or rather in that of the egg 
surrounding it is thickened or coagulated and the juices 
will be retained in the meat. For frying always use an 
abundance of fat in the pan. This is no waste, as the 
same fat can be used over and over again by pouring it 
through a strainer into a crock kept for the purpose. 

To Bake Meat. — Make some beef fat hot in an iron 
pan or broad kettle. Put the meat into it, and with a 
fork stuck into the fat, turn it rapidly till it is on all 
sides a fine brown, then put it into a hot oven, elevating 
it above the pan on a meat rack, or a few iron rods. Now 
comes the process called basting; in five minutes or less 
you will find that the top of the meat has dried, and you 
must now dip, with a spoon, the hot fat from the pan over 
the top. Do this every few minutes, adding no water to 
the pan; you will find your meat well cooked in from 
12 to IS minutes to the pound. It is done when it has lost 
in the middle the blue color, and becomes a fine red. 
Only salt and pepper should be used to season such roasts, 
and must be added when the meat is half done; earlier 
it toughens the fibers. 

Meat ancl Soup. — To make soup crack the bones and 
cut up the m^at into small pieces and put on the stove in 
cold water, cook slowly several hours, cool, remove the 
fat and rewarm, adding flavors to taste before serving 
Do not remove the scum which rises while boiling, as this 
is the most nourishing part. The soup meat may after- 
ward be chopped, moistened with some of the soup, fla- 
vored with spices, lemon, etc., and pressed while wsirm 
and will make nice cold meat for tea. 



Meats, 



407 




ffOlV TO MAKE ME A T TENDER. 

(A NEW METHOD.) 

It is well known that meat must be kept some time aftei 
killing to make it tender. In winter, a Inrge piece of beef oi 
mutton will keep for six weeks if in a dry, cool place. 

Indeed, tliis is the time allowed in Kiiu'l md for the Christmas 
"shoulder of mutton," and every fe>\ d lys it is rubbed ovef 
with salt and vinegar. In summer nnh'ss the butcher wil) 
^eep the 'neat for ycu, you must resort to other means. 



\ 

4''8 Meats. ^ 




Stuffed Beef's Heart. 



If fire is no object, you may boil a beef's heart, it will take 
ill day. Put into cold water and bring slowly to the simm- 
ering point and keep it there. Next day it may be stuffed 
with well-seasoned bread crumbs and baked three-quarters 
of an hour. 




How TO Serve Roast Beef a Second Time. 



Heat the gravy, jjut the roast in it. After tninming t 
inio sha( e again, cover closely and put into a hoi ovm li r 
ten miiiuies, or less, according to size of piece. 

Or, cut in slices and lay in hot gravy, only long enough to 
heat them through. 




//AM CAKES. 

Take one cup finely chopped boiled ham, two cups of 
breadcrumbs, two eggs, pepper and salt, and enough milk to 
nnike quite moist. 

r<> USE. First: Fry on a griddle in small spoonfuls, and 
tuvi !>< pancakes. 

Se<'<)iui : Use mashed potatoes instead of breadcrumbs, aud 
fry as above. 



How to Pickle Meats. 409 




Showinjr the Sections into which Pork should be cut. 



HOW TO PICKLE BEEF. 

A. S. Barnard's Celebrated Recipe. 

To 3 gallons of water add 8 pounds of salt, 2 ounces of 
saltpetre and one pine of molasses— same proportion for 
larger quantities. 

Method.— Pack the meat without salt. Prepare the 
brme as above, scald it, skim it, let it cool and cover the 
meat. 

HOW TO PICKLE HAMS. 

Take to lOO pounds of ham, 4 quarts of fine salt, 
pound of saltpetre and i quart of molasses and mix thor- 
oughly. 

Method.— Rub the hams with the mixture and pack 
them closely. Put the remaining mixture upon them and 
let them lie 10 days, then turn them and let them He 20 
days— take them up and smoke them with corn cobs. 

now TO PACK PORK. 

Pack the pork closely together and put in plenty of 
rock salt, then pour on cold water to cover the meat. 

HOW TO PICKLE TONGUES. 

For each tongue take: 6 ounces of salt; 2 ounces of bay 
salt; I ounce of saltpetre; 3 ounces coarse sugar. 

Cloves and allspice to taste, keep the tongue in the 
above pickle two weeks or 20 days. 



410 



Sausages. 




SAUSAGE. 

Two pounds lean pork, two pounds lean veal, two 
pounds beef suet, peel of half a lemon, one grated nutmeg, 
one teaspoonful black pepper, one teaspoonful cayenne 
pepper, five teaspoonfuls salt, three teaspoonfuls sweet 
marjoram and thyme, mixed, two teaspoonfuls of sage, 
juice of a lemon. Grind the meats and thoroughly mix 
in the other ingredients. Stuff in cases. 




BOLOGNA SAUSAGE— COOKED. 

Mix well together and let boil twelve hours: 5 pounds 
beef finely chopped, iJ4 pounds pork finely chopped, 2 
teaspoonfuls of powdered cloves, i teaspoonful of pow- 
dered mace, ij4 ounces of ground black pepper, salt to 
taste. Stufif this mixture into muslin bags eight or twelve 
inches long and three inches in diameter. Lay them in 
a ham pickle four or five days, and then smoke them six 
or seven days. Hang up in a dark place. 

ROASTED TURKEY. 
Stuff a nicely cleansed turkey with dressing, made of 
two pints of bread crumbs, one cup of butter, and moist- 
ened with water; to this add one egg, and salt and pep- 
per to taste, and also a pint or more of oysters, if con- 
venient. Mix this well before using. Rub butter over 
the outside of the turkey, place in the dripping pan with 
a little water, and baste frequently while cooking. 



How to L ooR A II Kinds of Poultry. 4l 1 




SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Prepare the chicken ns yon would for boiling it whole, and 

f>lace, with a little wistt'i, into a dripping i)an, after seasoning 
t with butter, pepper and salt. I'uttliin slices of tomato over 
it, dredge with Hour, cover it very closely to keep in the 
steam, and place in the oven to cook until tender. When done, 
remove the cover, to let brown nicely. Make a nice gravy 
from the drippings, to serve with them, 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Clean, wash, and cit up a pair of young chickens. Lay in 
clear water for half ;in iioiu. If Uu-y are old, you cannot 
brown them well Tut tiieni in a saucepan, with enough cold 
water to cover tlieiu well, and si t over the fire to heat slow- 
ly. Meanwhile, cut half a pound of salt vork in strips, and 
fry crisp. Take tlieni out, ciiop tine, and put in the pot with 
the chickens. Fry in the fat left in the f rj ing-pan one large 
onion, or two or "three small ones, cut into slices. Let them 
brown well, and add them also to the chicken, with a quarter 
teaspoonful of alls iict^ and cloves Stew all togethei slowly 
for an hour or more, until the meat is very tender; you can 
test this with a fork. Tu.i{e out the pieces of fowl and put in 
a hot dish, covering closely until the gravy is ready. Add to 
this a great spoonful of walnut or other dark catsup and near- 
ly three tablespoonfuls of browned flour, a little chopped 
parsley, and a glass of brown Sherry. Boil up once; strain 
through a cullender, to remove the bits of pork and onion ; 
return to the pot, with the chicken ; let it come to a final boil, 
and serve, pouring the gravy over the pieces of fowl. 

DEVILED TURKEY. 

Take the first and second joint of a roast turkey and c\it 
deep gashes in them, and into these put a little mixed mustard, 
a little salt and cayenne pepper. Lay on a broiler until heated 
through, then place on a very hot dish, and spread with 
butter 



412 How to Cook A II Kinds of 1 oullry. 




PREPARED FOR ROASTING. 



HOW TO COOK ALL KINDS OF POULTRY. 

1. Poultry should never be eaten in less than 12 hours aftei 
it lias been killed ; but it should be piclced and drawn as soon 
as possible. 

2. After picking and drawiug chickens it is well to wash 
them in three waters adding a little soda in the last water. 

3. When buying turkeys notice carefully the legs ; if they 
are rough and reddish the bird is old ; if smooth and black it 
is young. 

4. If the fowl is old or tough, a little soda in which it is 
boiled will make it tender. 

5. A pan of water placed in an oven with a roasting fowl 
will keep it from scoarching. 

6. Wild game first fried in butter before boiling will greatly 
improve the flavor. 

7. Chickens, unless of the very tenderest spring brood, and 
Ducks and Turkeys are far better when dressed, stuffed, and 
steamed until tender, then brown nicely in the oven. This 
makes an easy Sunday dinner as all the labor may be done on 
Saturday with only a half hour s cooking Sunday. 

8. Young fowls should never be fried but always broiied- 
Split down the back, butter and broil over clear coals. They 
may be finished in the oven after four or five minutes broiling 
The flavor is finer and they digest much easier than when 
fripd. Use the bones for soup. 



How to Carve Fowl. 



413 



HOW TO CARTE TURKEYS, DUCKS, CHICKENS, ETC. 

"Conversation is but carving; 
Give no more to every guest 
Than he's able to digest. 
Give him always of the prime, 
And but little at a time. 
Carve to all but just enough, 
Let them neither starve nor stuff. 
And that you may have your due, 
Let some neighbor carve for you." 

1. It is a very easy matter to divide and separate the 
parts of a baked fowl, but it is another matter to do it 
easily and elegantly. 

2. Every man and woman, boy and girl, should be fa- 
miliar with the art of carving. 

3. A good skillful carver places the fork in the fowl and 
does not remove it until the whole is divided, 

4. First cut ofif the leg and wing on one side and then 
shave off the breast in nice thin slices. Then turn the bird 
and cut the other side in the same manner. 

5. Never rise from your seat while carving. 

6. To hit the joints while carving and separating the 
wings and legs, the bird should be thoroughly studied 
before cooked, and the lesson learned as to the location 
of the joints, after which no trouble will ever be experi- 
enced in separating any of the joints or parts in the fowl. 

7. In a turkey the thigh should be separated into three 
portions, one with the bone, and two without, and a piece 
of this, with a slice from the breast, will be sufficient for 
one person, unless it is known that they do not prefer any 
of the parts thus separated. 

8. The wing may be divided in a similar way, unless 
preference is otherwise expressed. 

9. Always lay the pieces with skin side up and add a 
spoonful of stuffing. 



41 4 Stewed Chicken and Dumplings. 




SHOWING THE SECTIONS IN WHICH THE BREAST IS TO BE CDT. 



10. If there are old persons at the table, the choice part 
just below the thigh, which is easily removed, should be 
given them. 

11. The best way to learn to carve is to watch a good, 
skillful carver, and then practice at every opportunity 
offered. 



STEWED CHICKEN AND DUMPLINGS. 

Cut a cliicken into pieces suitable 
for seiviiig, wash it, and put it into 
a deep stew pan, add three pints of 
water. Put on to boil, in another 
sauce pan, three slices of carrot, 
tliree of turnip, and one lar^e onion, 
cook slowly for half an hour, then 
take up the vegetables in a strainer 
and place it in a stew pan with the 
cliicken and dip some of the water 
into it. Mash the vegetables with 
tlie back of a spoon and rub as much 
as possible through the strainer. 
Now skim two spoonfuls of chicken 
fat and put it into the pan in which 
the vegetables were cooked. ^^ lien 
boiling-hot, add three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, stir it in with the 
chicken, and simmer until tender. 
Season well with pepper and salt and butter. The stew must 
not boil hard, but only simmer about two hours. Ten minutes 
before serving, put it on the front of the stove and put the 
dumplings in and cook ten minutes. 




{iow to Cook Alt Kinds of Fish, Oysters, Etc. 4 '. j 




How to Prepare and Cook Al! Kinds of Fish. 



hollandaise sauce. 

Put two tablespooiifi'.ls of luittc:- iiitn a frying pan; wl\eT/ 
nieltfd, a(i<! two table^puoutuls ot tioiir. >l;r until snmotli, men 
pour ill Iwii cui)fuls of t'old watt-i ;iii<l stir steadily until ii 
thickens, iidd a little salt and l>Pl)l)t'r, take from tlie tire and 
add the beaten yelks of twoeggs and the juice of half a letuou. 
Btirrin'^ bteadily. 

FRIED WI/ITEFISN. 

Split a iar^e whitefisli and place in a dish with salt and pep 
per, squeeze over it the juice of iwn lemons and Jet it stand 
for an hour. Drain them, lioi.r tlicni al! over, dip in egg and 
fry to a light brown. Serve with the a wove sauce. 

BOILED FJ^H. 
Unless you have a fish kettle the fish must be pinned in a 
stout piece of white cloth, and not boiled hard, but sim- 
mered. Serve with egg sauce. 



HOW TO USE CANNED SALMON. 

SALMON ON TOAST. 

Flake the fish, season with pepper and salt, and heat it 
with a little milk or cream. Have some hot milk in a flat 
pan. Toast several slices of bread, which dip quickly into 
the hot milk, place on a hot dish, spread with butter and 
pour over it the heated fish. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

One can of salmon; one egg, well beaten; one-half cup of 
fine bread crumbs; salt; cayenne pepper; nutmeg; juice of 
half a lemon. Dram off the liquid and mince the fish. 
Melt and work in the butter, season, and if necessary mcis- 
ten with a little of the liquid; add the crumbs. Form the 
parts into rolls, which flour thickly, and stand them in a 
cold place for an hour. Fry in hot fat and serve on a hot 
platter, garnished with fresh parsley or lettuce. 



1 

I 



416 How 10 Cook Ali Kinds of Fish, Oysters, Etc, 

SALMON SALAD. 

One cup of cold salmon minced and mixed with an equa^ 
quantity of chopped celery or cabbage. Line a dish with let- 
tuce leaves, turn into it tne mixed salmon and celery or cab- 
baf?e, and over all pour a dressing made of two tablespoonfuls 
of oil, three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, salt and pepper. A 
mayonnaise dressing may be used, but with salmon the plain 
dressing is to be preferred. 

FISH BALLS. 

The favorite dish, is prepared by adding to cooked codfish, 
iinely sliredded, a like quantity of mashed potatoes. Make 
into balls, season and fry on a griddle or in boiling fat. 

Any other flsh can be used in the same way. 

CODFISH SOUP. 

Cook one tablespoonful of flour in one tablespoonful of 
butter. Add one and one-half quarts of milk, or milk and 
water, and when it boils stir in one teacup of cold boiled 
codfish that has been freed from skin and bones and then 
chopped fine. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

OYSTERS. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Put the liquid of one quart of 
oysters and two pints of water 
in a kettle; let it boil and skim 
it, then add two quarts of milk 
and one dozen rolled crackers, 
|\ with two tablespo. nfuls of but- 
ter; put in a little salt and pep- 
per. When near boiling point 
put in the oysters. When it be- 
TBE EDIBLE OYSTER. gins to boil take up at once. 

OYSTERS ON TOAST. 
Put in a stew pan one quart of oysters with their liquid; 
when they come to a boil put in cue pint of milk, one table- 
spoonful of butter mixed with two tablespoonfuls of flour 
and a little salt and pepper. Let it boil up and then pour 
over slices of nicely browned and buttered toast. Serve hot. 

ROASTED OYSTERS. 
Oysters aie roasted in the following manner: Select l^rge 
oysters and have them scrubbed thoroughly; then place 
them in the oven in a large tin with the round side of the 
shells down, so that when they open the liquor will not be 
lost. As scon as they do open remove the upper shell; 
sprinkle them with salt, pepper and chopped parsley, add 
a little butter and serve hot as possible on a bed of water- 
cress. Oysters served in this way make an excellent first 
course at dinner if accompanied by thin slices of brown 
bread and butter. 




i 



How to Cook All Kinds of Fish, Oysters, Etc. 417 



OYSTER PA TTIES. 

Line patty pans with paste, put a cover of paste over and 
pinch the edges; balce in a quiclc oven, take as many large 
oysters as you have patties, stew them in their own liquid, 
then cut in pieces and add one tablespoonful of flour, the same 
of butter, the grated rind of one lemon, a little salt, pepper 
and minced mace, and three tablespoonfu Is of cream; mix to- 
gether well and into each of the patties put a tablespoonful of 
the mixture. Serve hot. 



LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

UADB FBOU CANNED LOBSTERS. 

Mince the meat of the lobsters fine, season with salt and 
spice, melt a piece of butter in a sauce pan, mix with it one 
tablespoonful of flour, add the lobster and a little finely 
chopped parsley, add a little stock also, and let it come to a 
boil; remove from the fire and stir into it the yolks of two 
eggs, spread this mixture in a shallow pan; when cold cut into 
cutlets, shape, dip carefully in beaten eggs, then in cracker 
crumbs and fry to a rich brown color in hot lard. 



BAKED SALMON. 

One can of salmon, two eggs, one tablespoonful melted butter, 
one cup bread crumbs, pepper, salt and minced cucumber 
pickle. Drain the liquid from the fish and set aside for the 
sauce. Pick the fish to pieces, then work in the melted butter, 
seasoning, eggs, and crumbs. Put in a buttered bowl, cover 
tightly and set in a pan of boiling water. Cook in a hot oven 
one hour, then stand the bowl in cold water for a moment to 
loosen the pudding, and turn out on a hot dish. 

For the sauce make a cup of drawn butter, to which add 
the liquid from the can, a beaten egg, pepper, salt, a 
chopped pickle and some minced parsley, cabbage or let- 
tuce. Boil up and pour over the fish or serve in a gravy 
tureen. 27 



4 1 8 How to Make A II Kinds of Omelets, 




CORN OMBLET. 



How to Make all Kinds of Omelets. 

Corn Omelet. 

For this take young tender sweet corn ; shave off the 
kernels, scrape out the rest with a dull knife, being careful 
not to get in any of the cob. For 4 large ears, add 3 well- 
beaten eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, or the same amount of 
milk with a tablespoonful butter, a pinch of salt and a little 
pepper. Place a tablespoonful butter in a spider, and when 
hot pour in the omelet. As soon as it sets, turn or fold it 
over and take up on a hot platter. Omelet is best if eaten 
hot. 

Vegetable Omelet. 

Cold cooked asparagus, French beans, carrots, cabbage, 
cauliflower sprigs, spinach, sorrel, tomatoes, mushrooms, etc., 
are all suitable to introduce into an omelet Chop very finely 
the vegetable or vegetables in question — for a mixture is 
often preferred to only one kind — then mix thoroughly with 
the eggs; be careful to add appropriate seasonings, and 
proceed as already directed, serving with sauce, or not, just 
according to taste and convenience. Always continue the 
beating iox some time after the last addition has been made 
to insure the ingredients being thoroughly blended, as this 
is the most important point. 

Fish Omelet. 

The remains of almost any kind of fresh fish may, vrlth 
great advantage, be used for this purpose, and only a very 
small quantity is required — about two large teaspoonfuls 
for four eggs. After carefully removing the bones and every 
particle of skin, mince the fish very finely or tear it into 



How to Make All Kinds of Omelets. 



419 



tiny shreds with two forks, and add to- it the other ingred- 
ients, then fry, and serve in the usual manner ; or, if pre- 
ferred, dish up without a paper under, and pour a few table- 
spoonfuls of some rich, boiling-hot fish sauce round— but 
not over— the omelet just at the last minute. 



Omelets with Meat. 

It is almost impossible to get wrong in the making ol 
these, as the remains of all sorts of 
meat, poultry, and game may be 
used, providing they are carefully 
prepared, very finely minced, and 
pleasantly seasoned previously to 
being added to the eggs. Cook in the usual way, serve as 
fancy dictates. 

Cheese Omelets. 

These form a particular appetizing little dish, and are de- 
servedly very popular. To four eggs allow two dessertspoon- 
fuls of grated cheese, a teaspoonful of finely minced pars- 
ley, and a seasoning of salt and pepper ; then, when suffic- 
iently beaten, fry, and serve in the ordinary way. 

Sweet Omelets. 

These are prepared, cooked, and served in precisely the 
same manner as described above, only substituting sweet 
ingredients for the savory. A tablespoonful of fine white 
sugar, a pinch of salt, and a few drops of some favorite 
iavoring essence added to the eggs will make a most deli- 
cious plain omelet ; but, if prepared, about two tablespoon- 
fuls «f some delicate preserve may be used, or any kind (rf 
fresh fruit which has been partially cooked and sweetcn«A 
tiie omelet, of course* taking its nare-e accordingly. 




420 New Egg Dishes, 




New Egg Dishes. 

Egg on Toast. 
Put one quart of boiling water and one tablespoonful of 
salt in a frying-pan. Break the eggs, one by one, into a 
saucer and slide carefully into the salted water. Cook until 
the white is firm. Lift out carefully and place on toasted 
slices of bread. Serve immediately. 

Salad Eggs. 

Boil the eggs hard, turning them several times to prevent 
the yolks from settling on one side. When cool peel off the 
shells, cut across neatly with a sharp knife, remove the 
yolks and mash them smooth, mix with them some good 
salad dressing, taking care not to make the mixture too thin. 

Return this mixture into the white part, and place the two 
halves together neatly so as to look as if it had never been 
cut. Lay each egg in a fresh lettuce leaf. 

Excellent for picnics and luncheons. 

Creamed Eggs. 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Make one pint of cream 
sauce. Have six slices of toast on a hot dish. Put a layer of 
sauce on each one, and then part of the white of the eggs, 
cut in thin strips ; and rub part of the yolks through a sieve 
onto the toast. Repeat this, and finish with a third layer of 
sauce. Place in the oven for about three minutes. Gar- 
nish with parsley, and serve. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Cut six hard-boiled eggs in two. Take out the yolks and 
mash them fine. Add two teaspoonfuls of butter, one of 
cream, two or three drops of onion juice, and salt and pep- 
per to taste. Mix all thoroughly. Fill the eggs from the 
mixture, and put them together. There will be a little fill- 
ing left, to which add a well-beaten egg. Cover the other 
eggs with this last preparation, and roll in cracked crumbs. 
Fry in boiling lard till a light brown. 



New Dishes of Rice. 



421 



New Dishes of Rice. 

RICE. 

Rice Is the most digestible of all vegetable foods, and on 
that account is valuable alike for the table, nursery and sick- 
room. It IS very rich in starch, but not as nutritive as wheat 
and some other cereals. It may be prepared in a variety of 

TO MAKE A RICE BORDER 
Wash one cupful of rice in cold water, and drain it ; put 
Jn a saucepan and pour over one quart of boiling stock, let boil 
rapidly for 15 minutes ; then stand on the back of the stove 
for 15 minutes longer ; drain, season with salt and pepper and 
press into a well-buttered mold. Put in the oven and bake 15 
minutes. Take up, turn out on a dish, fill the center with 
stewed chicken. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 
Wash a cupful of rice, put in a saucepan with a quatt of 
milk and boil until thick ; add the yelks of 
four eggs and cook ten miuutes longer. 
Take from the fire, add a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, a little salt and pepper ; 
mix well, turn out on a plate and set aside un- 
til very cold. Form in croquettes, dip first in 
beaten egg, then in grated bread crumbs and 
fry in boiling lard, 

RICE SOUFFLE. 
Put half a piht of cream on to boil. Beat 
two ounces of butter, five ounces of sugar, 
three ounces of ground rice and the yolks of 
six eggs together until light, stir into boiling 
cream, and stir until thick. Take from the 
fire, add a teaspoonful of vanilla and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. Beat the whites of six 
eggs, stir them carefully into the mixture and 
turn in a glass bowl. 

SNOWBALLS. 

Wash a cupful of rice and put in a saucepan with a cupful 
of milk ; boil until tender, add a pinch of salt and put in small 
cups to cool. When cold, turn out in a dish and pour over 
boiled custard. Serve with whipped cream or sauce. 

RICE ME RING UE. 

Bon a cupful of rice in a quart of water until tender, drain 
in a colander', add a pint of milk, a tablespoonful of butter 
and the yelks of six eggs beaten with two cupfuls of sugar, 
with the juice and rind of a lemon, pour in a baking-dish and 
bake in a quick oven. Beat the whites of the eggs with a tea- 
cupful of powdered sugar and heap over the top ; set in the 
oven to brown. 




BAES OF EICE. 



422 



A Few Novel Vegetable Dishes. 



POTATOES. 

We in our country need not feel as bitter against the 
potato as do the scientists of Europe, for we are not 
obliged to use it to excess, and considering its cheapness 
and availability, it is for us a good vegetable, and on these 
accounts, though it makes a poor enough showing as to 
food value, we must rank it next to the bean in impor- 
tance. The quality of the potato is of great importance, 
and none but the best should be used. It should be of 
a mealy variety and perfectly ripe. 

How Potatoes May be Spoiled. — In a bulletin issued by 
Professor Snyder, of the Minnesota State Agricultural 
College, he makes a point of interest to the housewife. 
He shows that where potatoes are peeled and started boil- 
ing in cold water there is a loss of 80 per cent, of the total 
albumen, and where they are not peeled and are started in 
hot water this loss is reduced to two per cent. A bushel 
of potatoes, weighing 60 pounds, contain about two 
pounds of total nitrogenous compounds. When improp- 
erly cooked one-half of a pound is lost, containing six- 
tenths of a pound of the mosit valuable proteids. It re- 
quires all of the protein from nearly two pounds of round 
beefsteak to replace the loss of protein from improperly 
boiling a bushel of potatoes. 

Sealloped Potatoes. — Peel and slice thin, then lay in 
a stew pan a layer of potatoes, sprinkle with pepper, salt, 
a little flour and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
t4icn another layer of potatoes, then the seasoning, and so 
«n until the pan is full. Fill the pan half full with sweet 
milk, put into the oven and bake twenty or thixty miautcs. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Ingredients. — Six large potatoes peeled, i large onion, 
I heaping teaspoon salt, teaspoon pepper. For a richer 
soup add % pound salt pork cut in bits (in this case put in 
less salt), or add i cup of milk or a beaten egg. Chopped 
celery leaves give a good flavor. 

Boil potatoes, onions and salt in a little water, and when 
very soft mash ; then add, a little at a time, and stirring to 
keep it smooth, a quart of hot water and i tablespoon beef 
fat, in which i tablespoon flour has been cooked; or use 
the fait for frying bread dice, which add at the last minute. 

Most cooks fry the sliced onion before putting it in the 
soup, but the difference in taste is so slight as not to be 
worth the few minutes' extra time, if time is an object. 



A Few Ntve/ Vag^tablt Dtiha, 



423 




New Ways for Cooking Potatoes 



POTA TO CAKES WITH PREPARED FLOUR, 

Mix together one pint each of milk, mashed potato, and 
prepared flour, four eggs beaten light, an even teaspoonful 
of salt, and bake the cakes like biscuit. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Melt two heaping tablespoons of butter in half a cupful at 
cream, stir it into a pint of hot, mashed potato with an eveu 
teaspoonful each of salt and white pepper, two eggs beaten to 
a foam and enough prepared flour to make a dough, which can 
be rolled out and cut in thin biscuits ; bake them in a rather 
moderate oven, so they cannot burn, and serve them hot with 
butter. 

RA W POTA TO FRITTERS. 

Peel and grate under water a pint of raw potatoes, drain 
off the water through a towl and wring the potato pulp in it : 
mix the liquid with three heaping tablespoons of flour and 
three eggs beaten light, salt and pepper to taste, and fry the 
batter at once in enougli smoking-hot fat to float the fritters ; 
serve them hot, dusted with powdered sugar. 

POTATO CUSTARD PIE. 

To a pint of mashed potato and two eggs be»t«n llfht, add 
half a cupful of warm milk containing half a cupful of sugai 
and a heaping teaspoonful of butter, flavor the custard with 
grated nutmeg, and bake it in a bottom crust, to b« eaten either 
hot or cold, like other custard pie. 



424 



A Few Novel Vegetable Dishes 



DELICIOUS DISHES OF SWEET POTATOES. 



Scalloped Sweet Potatoes. 

Take large sweet potatoes, boil, peel and slice. Put a 
layer in the bottom of a deep pan, put over a layer of but- 
ter and sugar, then more potatoes, butter and sugar until 
the pan is full. Set in the oven to brown. Sift sugar and 
grated nutmeg over the top. 

Sweet Potatoes a la ProTince. 

Slice raw sweet potatoes thin and lay in a dish with bits 
of biitter; sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour over milk to 
cover. Wet bread crumbs in cream, add a beaten egg, 
pour over the top. Set in the oven and bake until done. 

Sweet Potato Custard. 
Take a quart of sweet milk, beat the yolks of four eggs 
with a teacupful of sugar, put in a saucepan and set on the 
stove, let come to a boil; mash a teacupful of boiled sweet 
potatoes and mix it; take off the fire and stir until cool; 
flavor with nutmeg. When ready to serve, put in glasses 
and pile meringue over the tops. 

Sweet Potato Pie. 
Boil large sweet potatoes, peel and slice; place evenly on 
the bottom of a deep pie-pan lined with crust, cover with 
butter and sugar, then add another laye. of sweet potatoes 
butter and sugar until full. Bake in a slow oven. 

Sweet Potato Custard Pie. 
Take one pint of mashed sweet potatoes and a teacupful 
of sweet milk. Beat the yolks of four eggs, and cream a 
teacupful of sugar and butter together; mix with the pota- 
toes. Flavor with nutmeg. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth and stir in. Pour in pie-pans lined with crust and 
bake quickly. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 

Take two pounds of boiled sweet potatoes, mash and 
mix them with half a pound of butter, six eggs, a teacupful 
of milk and one grated lemon. Put in a pudding-dish, 
bake, and serve with wine sauce. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

If any meat bones are on hand or trimmings of meat not 
otherwise needed, simmer them from one to two hours in 
water and use the broth thus obtained instead of water in 
making any of the following soups: 



Vegetable Soups. 



425 



Most important are those made from the dfled bean, pea 

and lentil, the three pod-covered vegetables. 

Bean Soup. — Ingredients: One pound beans, i onion, 2 
tablespoonfuls beef fat, salt and pepper. Additions to be 
rnade according to taste; }4 pound pork, or ham bone, a 
pinch of red pepper, or, an hour before serving, different 
vegetables, as carrots and turnips, chopped and fried. 

Soak the beans over night in 2 quarts water. In the 
morning pour of¥, put on fresh and cook virith the onion 
and fat till very soft, then mash or press through a cullen- 
der to remove the skins, and add enough w^ater to make 
two quarts of somewhat thick soup. Season. 

This soup may also be made from cold baked beans. 
Boil one-half hour, or till they fall to pieces, then strain 
and season. 

Green Vegetable Soup.— The water in which vegetables 
have been cooked should never be thrown away, with the 
exception of that used for cooking beets, and potatoes 
boiled without peeling; even cabbage water can be made 
the basis of a good soup. 

General Method. — Boil the vegetables until very tender, 
mash or press through a cullender, thin sufificiently and 
season. 

Flour and Bread Soups.— Ingredients: 1 tablespoon 
beef fat, i heaping tablespoon flour, 2 sliced onions, 2 
pints water, i pint milk, i cupful mashed potato, salt and 
pepper. 

Fry the onions in the fat until light brown; remove, 
pressing out the fat. In same fat now cook the flour till it 
is yellow, and add, a little at a time, the water. Put back 
the onions and let it stand awhile, then add milk and po- 
tato. Salt well. 

Green Pea Soup. — This .s a delicious soup, and very 
nutritious. Large peas, a little too hard to be used as a 
vegetable, may be utilized in its manufacture. 

Ingredients: i pint shelled peas, 3 pints water, i 
small onion, i tablespoon butter or fat, i tablespoon flour. 
Salt and pepper. 

Put peas and onions in boiling water and cook one-half 
hour to an hour, till very soft. Press through cullender 
and season. 

Peas and Tomato Soup.— Add to the above when done 1 
pint stewed tomatoes and a little more seasoning. This is 
an excellent soup, having the nutrition of the pea and the 
flavor of the tomato. 

Tomato Soup. — Valuable for its fine flavor, and may be 
made nutritious also by adding broth, milk or eggs. 
28 



426 



A Few Novel Vegetable Dishes, 



A FEW NOVEL VEGETABLE DISHES. 

General Directions. 

Gr«at care should be used in picking out all the dwfectlvt 
or rotten portions of vegetables before cooking. It is bett«r 
to soak vegetables an hour or two before cooking. 

The water should always boil before putting in the vege- 
tables. 

Hold onions under water while pealing as it will prevent 
the Oder from affecting the eyes. 

Baked Beets. 
Beets are nearly always boiled, but if baked right, they 
are excellent. Wash them well, and place in a dripping 

f)an to roast, as you would meat, with a little water, replencf 
shing it as it cooks away. Bake slowly in a moderate oven 
for three hours, and when soft, peel them, and season to 
taste, with quite ;l little butter, pepper and salt. 

Stewed Celery. 
Use only the tender stalks, which 
should be cut into small pieces 
and stewed in beef broth. When 
cooked tender, dress with ; >^ pint 
of cream, i teaspoonful of butter, 
1 teaspoonful of flour, pepper and 
salt to taste. 

Scalloped Vegetable 
Oysters. 
Cut the scraped roots into small 
pieces and boil until tender. Place 
m a deep dish a layer of rolled 
crackers or bread crumbs, and 
layers of oysters, consecutively, 
seasoning each layer with pepper, 
salt, butter and parsley or celery 
leaves. When the dish is full, pour over it two pints of 
sweet milk, and bake an hour and a half or two hours in a 
medium oven. 

Smothered Cabbage. 
Cut a small head of cabbage fine, and put Into a pan 
where meat has been fried ; put on a very little sweet milk, 
season with pepper and salt, and butter about the size of an 
•gg. Cover It tightly and let it stand on the back of the stovt' 
fiftoen or twenty minutes. 




A Few Novel Vegetable Dishes. 



497 



NEW WAYS FOR COOKING CORN. 



BAKED CORN. 
1 quart corn, cut from cob. 
% cup of cream. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Season with pepper and salt to taste. Bake one hour. 
Stir it several times while baking. 

FRIED CORN. 
Put into a skillet containing hot butter, corn that has been 
out from the cob. Season with pepper and salt, and stir it 
often, to prevent it burning. It should be kept covered. 

CORN OYSTERS. 
Grate the corn into a dish, and season with salt and pep- 
per. Drop a spoonful into a well buttered skillet, in form «t 
eysters, and as soon as they are brown, turn them over to 
brown, the same on the other side. Serve hot. 

HULLED CORN. 
To every pint of corn, add a half tablespoonful of baking 
Boda, and enough water to cover it. Let it soak over night 
and in the morning boil in this solution, until the hulls will 
rub off, which will require about two hours. 

CORN CUSTARD. 

After cutting the corn from the cob, mix it medium thick 
with milk, pepper and salt to taste. Then add three well 
beaten eggs, and bake twenty-five or thirty minutes. 

CORN CAKES. 

Mix well : 1 pint of grated corn ; 1 teaspoonful of melted 
butter; 3 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk ; 2 eggs, weil beaten; 
Stableupoonfuls of rolled crackers. Fry in hot butter. 
CORN FRITTERS. 

Score and press out the pulp of one dozen ears of sugar 
corn, add to this one cupful of sifted flour, one cupful of mfik, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of 
black pepper and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Beat well, 
stir in carefully the two whites beaten to a stiff froth, and one 
teaspoonful ot baking-powder. Fry them like any other frit- 
tar, in smoking hot tat, and drain them on brown paper. 



428 



A Few Novel Vegetable Dishes. 



HOW TO MAKE SA UER KRA UT. 
Take off the outer leaves of the cabbage and the core, and 
cut it very fine on a slaw cutter; put it down in a keg or 
large jar, and sprinkle a little salt between each layer, and 
pound each with a masher or mallet. When the receptacle 
IS full place some large cabbage leaves on top, and a thick 
cloth, first wrung out of cold water; then cover it and put 
on a very heavy weight. It should stand for six weeks before 
using, and it should have every bit of scum removed by 
washing the cloth and weight. Before it is used, the water 
should be drained off and fresh put on. 

ROASTED OmONS. 
Onions are very good roasted 
in ashes, without removing the 
skill. When they are done, take 
off the skin and flavor with pepper, 
salt and butter. 

TOMATO SUCCOTASH. 
To every half pint of tomatoes, 
a. pint of corn, cut from the cob; 
let them cook twenty or twenty-five 
minutes, then add a very little 
bread crumbs, pepper, salt and 
butter about the size of an egg. 
TOMATO TOAST. 
Toast some nice pieces of bread, 
and pour over them the the toma- 
toes prepared as follows : 

Cook together, four medium sized tomatoes and one 
medium sized onion, pared and sliced fine, for three-quarters 
of an hour; when done pour off the water and season to suit 
the taste; then add one cup of sweet cream, or milk, and a table* 
spoonful of butter. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 
Cut the tomatoes in slices, without skinning, sprinkle pep* 
per, salt and flour over them, and fry in butter until brown. 
After they are taken up, pour cream into the butter and 
juice, and while boiling hot pour over the tomatoes. • 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Take large tomatoes of even size, scoop out the top of the 
tomato as much as you can without spoiling the shape, and 
fill with stuffing made as follows : 

Fry a small chopped onion in a little water, when nearly 
done, add some bread crumbs moistened with a little milk 
and season with pepper and salt, put a little butter on each 
and bake twenty minutes, or until a nice brown. 




Catsups, Pickles, Salads and Salad Dressings. 429 

Tomato Fritters. 
Scald and peel the tomatoes, put them in a chopping 
bowl and chop them fine, season with pepper, salt, and sft'r 
flour, with one-half teaspoonful of soda, to make a thin bat- 
ter. Fry in butter or lard over a quick fire, and serve as 
soon as possible after taking from the fire. 




How to make all kinds of Catsups, Pickles, 
Salads and Salad Dressings. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Boil together for one hour, then strain through a sieve ; 
4 quarts of tomatoes, Yz dozen red peppers, 3 tablespoonfuis 
of mustard, cup of salt, cup of unground pepper, I 
teaspoonful of allspice. Bottle and seal when cold. 
Tomato Catsup. 

Skin the tomatoes, and cook them well. Press them 
through a sieve, and to each five pints add three pints of 
good cider vinegar. Boil slowly for about two hours, 01 
until it begins to thicken ; then add one tablespoonful of 
ground cloves, one of allspice, one of cinnamon, and one of 
pepper, and three grated nutmegs. Boil until very thick 
(six or eight hours), and add two tablespoonfuis of fine salt. 
When thoroughly cold, bottle, cork and seal. 

Currant Catsup. 

Boil together for twenty minutes : I gallon of currant 
juice, 3 cupfuls of vinegar, 7 cupfuls of sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls 
of cinnamon, 2 teaspoonfuls of cloves, 2 teaspoonfuls of pep- 
per, 2 teaspoonfuls of grated nutmeg. Cork and seal. 



430 How to Make All Kinds of Catsups, Pickles, Etc, 



CHOPPED PICKLE. 

One p«ck of green tomatoes, two quarts df onions and 
two of peppers. Chop all fine, separately, and mix, to 
which add three cups of salt. Let them remain over night 
and in the mornings drain well. Add half a pound of mus- 
tard seed, two tablespoonfuls of ground allspice, two of 
ground cloves, one cupful of grated horse-radish and three 
quarts of boiling vinegar. 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Soak ten dozen cucumbers in brine five or six hours, 
then scald in the following mixture: 3 quarts of cider vin- 
egar, I cup of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of unground clove*, 
2 tablespoonfuls of unground cinnamon, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
unground black pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped horse- 
radish, 4 red peppers. When the vinegar is scalding hot, 
take out the cucumbers, put them in jars and pour the vin- 
egar over them. Keep closely covered or seal. 

SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

One cupful of sour cream, one teaspoonful of salt, a 
speck of cayenne, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, three 
of vinegar, one tablespoonful of sugar. Mix thoroughly. 
This is nice for vegetables. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Boil two bunches of asparagus with one quart of water, 
and one tablespoonful of salt for twenty minutes. Take up 
and drain in a cullender. When cold, cut off the tender 
points and arrange them on the dish. Pour on the cr«am 
salad dressing 

SALMON SALAD. 

Pour over a pound of canned salmon, a dressing made as 
follows: Yi cup cider vinegar, i tablespoonful melted but- 
ter, I teaspoonful mustard, i tablespoonful sugar, 3 eggs, 
^ teaspoonful salt. Cook all together until it creams up 
nicely, when cool add a half cup milk or cream. Garnish 
with tender lettuce leaves. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Four heads tender lettuce, chopped fine, the yolks ©f 
thre>e hard-boiled eggs, rubbed fine. Se«$on with »alt, 
pepper and mustard. Heat together and add one cup of 
vinegar, one tablespoonful butter. Mix well and garnish 
with the whites of the eggs cut in rings. 



to Make A II Kinds of Catsups, Pickles, Etc. 4tl 



CELEBT SALAD. 

1 boiled egg, i raw egg, i tablespoonful salad oil, i tea- 
^>oonful white sugar, i sakspoonful salt, i saltspoonful 
pepper, 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar, i tablespoonful made 
mustard. Rub the yolk to a paste, adding by degrees the 
other ingredients. Beat the raw egg to a froth and stir 
in lastly the vinegar. Cut the celery into bits about half 
an inch long. Eoit at once. 

POTATO SALAD. 

2 cups of mashed potatoes, rubbed through a cullender, 
^ of a cup of chopped cabbage — white and firm, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cucumber pickle, also chopped, yolks of two 
hard boiled eggs, powdered fane. Mix well. 

DRESSING. 

I raw egg, well beaten, i saltspoonful of celery seed, i 
teaspoonful white sugar, i tablespoonful of melted butter, 
I teaspoonful of flour, Yz cupful of vinegar, salt, mustard 
and pepper to taste. Boil the vinegar and pour it upon 
the beaten egg, sugar, butter and seasoning. Wet the 
flour with cold vinegar and beat into this. Cook the 
mixture, stirring until it thickens, then pour, scalding hot, 
upon the salad. Toss with a silver fork and let it get 
very cold before ealting. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

3 tablespoonfuls of oil, i of vinegar, i saltspoonful 
of salt, Yz a saltspoonful of pepper. Put the salt and pep- 
per into a cup, to which add 1 tablespoonful of oil. Mix 
thoroughly and then add the remainder of the oil and the 
vinegar. This is dressing enough for a salad for six 
persons. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Ten potatoes, cut fine; the French dressing, with 4 or 
5 drops of onion juice in it, and i tablespoonful chopped 
parsley. 

COOKED VEGETABLES IN SALAD. 

Nearly every kind of cooked vegetables can be served 
in salads. They can be served separately or mixed. They 
must be cold and well drained before the dressing is 
added. 



432 How to make alt kinds of Catsups, Pickles, Etc. 



A New Salad Dressing. 
1 pint of vinegar, sugar to taste, butter size of an egg, 3 
teaspoonfuls salt, i teaspoonful mixed mustard, pepper, 
celery, salt. Heat together. Beat three eggs light with one 
cup sour cream, pour into the hot vinegar the eggs and 
cream and let it all slowly thicken. This should be cooked 
in a double boiler ; makes a quart and will keep any length 
of time if kept covered. 

Cold Slaw. 

To a small cup of vinegar add a well-beaten egg, a tea- 
spoonful of mustard, one of sugar, a small lump of butter, 
season with pepper and salt. Let these ingredients come 
to a boil, and pour over nicely chopped cabbage, while hot. 

Warm Slaw. 

Boil together and pour over fine cut c abbage the yolks of 
two eggs, one cup of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of sour 
sream, two teaspoonfuls of butter, and three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. 

Peaches, Pears and Sweet Apple Pickles. 
For six pounds of fruit use three of sugar, a pint of vin- 
egar and about five dozen cloves. Bring the vinegar and 
BUgar to a boil. Put the fruit into this, having first stuck 
two cloves into each peach, pear or apple. Cook until 
tender. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. 
One peck of green tomatoes and six large onions sliced. 
Sprinkle with one cupful of salt, and let them stand over 
night. In the morning drain. Add to the tomatoes two 
quarts of water and one quart of vinegar. Boil fifteen min- 
utes, then drain again and throw this vinegar and water 
away. Add to the pickle two pounds of sugar, two quarts 
of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cloves, two of allspice, 
two of ginger, two of mustard, two of cinnamon, and one 
teaspoonful of cayenne, and boil fifteen minutes. 



Coffee and Tea. 



433 



COFFEE. 

Next to the quality of the coffee, it is of importance that 
it should be freshly ground and browned. If you buy it 
browned reheat it betore grinding. The easiest and most 
economical way of making is to grind it very fine and put 
it into a bag made of woven stuff. Heat this in your coffee 
pot as hot as you can without burning. Pour on boiling 
water and keep it hot and close covered for 15 or 20 min- 
utes. Boiling coffee increases its strength but does not im- 
prove its flavor. 

A GOOD CUP OF TEA. 



How Easily it May be Made with a Little Care. 

Have good tea to begin with; then be sure that you 
have freshly drawn, pure and filtered water of which to 
make the beverage. The water must not have been 
standing for hours exposed to the weather nor simmer- 
ing on the range. It must be fresh, and then, if you have 
a brisk fire or the hot flame of an alcohol lamp, bring it 
quickly to the boil. A flat bottomed kettle is to be pre- 
ferred, as it has a broad surface to expose to the heat, and 
the boiling is soon accomplished. Water is boiling when 
it bubbles and the steam comes in white puffs from the 
spout of the kettle. It does not boil when it begins to 
simmer and to sing. That is only the sign that it is near 
to boiling. You must make your tea when the water has 
just boiled. A kettle which has been standing on the 
back of a stove all day, filled up now and then by a dipper 
or two more of water, will not make good tea. You 
must boil the water on purpose. 

An earthen pot is better for tea than a metal one. Pour 
a little boiling water in the pot to heat it, and after a 
minute or two pour it out. Now put a teaspoonful of tea 
for every cup of hot water — an even, not a heaping, spoon- 
ful — and add an extra one for the pot. Pour on as much 
water as will fill the number of cups you wish to make. 
Let it stand two minutes; then, with a long handled 
spoon, stir the leaves once through the water and in- 
stantly cover the pot again. Three minutes more, and 
your tea is done. Never let tea steep or boil or stand a 
long time. It is a quick, neat, nice process from begin- 
ning to end. 



Bread. 



BBEAD. 

Prize Bread Becipe. — At a bread contest held in an 
eastern city not long ago, a milling company offered 
prizes ranging from five to one hundred dollars for 
the best loaves of bread. The recipe used by the win- 
ner of the prize of one hundred dollars was: Three 
pints of water, one half pint of milk, one tablespoonful 
of lard, one tablespoonful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
salt, one yeast cake, and the necessary quantity of flour to 
make three loaves. The ingredients, which were first 
thoroughly mixed, and then kneaded ten minutes, were 
raised over night in a covered bread-p?n. In the morning 
the dough was kneaded ten minutes and made into three 
loaves. Three other loaves entered for the contest were 
awarded seventy-five-dollar prizes. One of these loaves 
seems to have been prepared in a somewhat unusual way. 
The ingredients for the dough were two-thirds milk to 
one-third water, compressed yeast and a little salt and 
sugar, and were mixed with enough flour to make a stiff 
dough. This dough was mixed, kneaded, and set to rise 
at night. When light it was chopped thoroughly with a 
chopping-knife, made into loaves, and set to rise the sec- 
ond time; when this was light it was baked forty minutes. 

BBEAD. 

Sift four quarts of flour into your bread-pan, leaving 
cavity in the center. Stir in equal parts of two quarts 
warm milk and water and, lastly, stir in three pints of po- 
tato yeast, beating thoroughly for about five minutes; 
when light add a teaspoonful of salt, piece of butter size of 
an egg or one tablespoonful of lard, one tablespoonful of 
sugar; knead well (for about twenty minutes) and let rise; 
when light knead again, let rise and knead again. The 
fourth or last time let rise and put in tins, allowing 
to stand until light; rub over the top of loaves a light 
coating of drawn butter, bake in oven moderately heated 
for one hour. 

GBAHAM BREAD. 

Four teacups graham flour, one-half teacup brown sugar, 
one-half teacup molasses, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved, one pint sour milk or buttermilk; bake in 
a slow oven two hours. 



Breakfast Breads and Cakes. 485 



CORN BREAD. 

Two cups of sour milk, two cups graham flour, two 
cups corn meal, half cup molasses, one teaspoon rounding 
full ©f s«da, st»amed three hours; brown in oven. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

When mixing bread save one cup of yeast, add two 
eggs, ©ne small cup sugar, one-half cup butter or melted 
lard, one pint of warm sweet milk, one teaspoonful salt. 
Stir in flour to make a stiff batter, set to rise until light; 
then beat well and put in bread or cake pans; let rise 
again ; when light put small bits of butter and a sprinkling 
of sugar and cinnamon on top. Bake in a moderate oven 
half an hour. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One bowl of sour milk, one teaspoonful baking soda, 
•ne egg, graham flour to make quite stiff; pour one 
tablespoonful of hot lard on the mixture and beat well; 
have the pans hot. Bake in a quick oven. 

DELICATE CORN MEAL GEMS. 

3 CMS, y2 cup sugar, butter the size of an egg, i cup 
white flour and i of cornmeal, lYz teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Bake in gem irons. 

FRITTERS. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 3 eggs, 2 cups of sour milk, 
I teaspoonful of soda, ^ teaspoonful of salt. Flour 
enough to make a thick batter. Beat well, fry in hot 
lard until a light 1ir«wn. Roll in powdered sugar when 
dene 

CRULLERS. 

2 cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 2 eggs, 2 cups sour 
milk, I teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. Flour 
t« roll eut tolerably stiff. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

I cup of flour mixed with i teaspoonful baking powder, 
add I cup of milk with yolk of 2 eggs stirred in; add 1 
cup or cups of chopped apples; last of all add the 
whites of two e^gs beaten very light; drop with spoon into 
very hot lard. Any fruit can be used. 



436 How to Make Muffins, Steamed Corn Bread, Etc. 



MUFFINS. 

1 pint milk, i egg, a tablespoonful lard, %, cup yeast, 
flour for a stiff batter, i teaspoonful salt. Set to rise over 
night. Bake in mufiin-rings. 

STEAMED CORN BREAD. 

2 cups Indian meal, i cup flour, 2 tablespoonfuls white 
sugar, 2>^ cups butterrfiilk, i teaspoonful soda, i teaspoon- 
ful salt, I heaping teaspoonful melted lard. Beat well and 
put into a buttered mould. Place in a steamer over a pot 
of boiling water. Steam lyi hours, and set in oven about lo 
minutes. Eat while warm. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

3^ cups buttermilk or sour milk, cup molasses, 
I egg, I teaspoonful salt, i teaspoonful soda, i cups corn- 
meal, then add flour enough to make thicker than cake 
dough. 

WAFFLES. 

2 cups milk, 2 eggs, 3 cups flour, i teaspoonful cream- 
tartar, teaspoonful soda, i saltspoonful salt, i tablespoon- 
ful melted butter. Sift the cream tartar with the salt into 
the flour, add soda dissolved in a little hot water, milk and 
eggs. Add the flour the last thing. If the batter is too 
Stiff, put in more milk. 

RICE WAFFLES. 

I cup boiled rice, i pint milk, 2 eggs, lard the size of a 
walnut, Yi teaspoonful soda, i teaspoonful cream tartar, 
I teaspoonful salt, flour for a thin batter. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Thicken with graham flour, 2 cups of sour milk, I large 
teaspoonful of soda, 2 tablespoonfuls of molasses. Bake in 
gem pans. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Mix together : K cup of flour, i cup of boiled rice, i tea- 
spoonful of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, i egg. Sweet 
milk enough to make a batter of the right consistency. 
BREAKFAST CAKES. 
Beat well together: i egg, % pint of sweet milk, i cup 
ot flour, I pmch of salt. Heat gem irons very hot, well 
greased, and bake them in a hot oven. 



How to Make A II Kinds of Cake. 437 




How to Make all Kinds of Cakes, Cookies, 
Doughnuts, Etc. 



A FEW PRACTICAL RULES. 

Powdered sugar is better than granulated for baking cake. 
It dissolves more quickly. 

Always remeynber that baking powder and sweet milk go 
together, and sour milk and soda. 

Do not use butter to grease baking pans. The salt in the 
butter makes the cake stick to the Pan. Always use fresh 
lard. 

If eggs are kept in a cool place they always beat better 
when broken. 

' Continually opening the oven door makes a cake fall. The 
oven door should never be opened for at least ten minutes 
after placing the cake into it. 

If molasses is used in cakes they should never be baked in 
a hot oven as they will burn very quickly. 



438 



How to Make All Kinds of Cake. 



WALNUT CAKE. 



H. B. J. writes : Take 2 teacupfuls of white sugar, % tea. 
cupful butter, l teacupful milk, 3 teacupfuls flour, whites of 8 
eggs, 2 teaspoonf uls baking powder, Fillincj : Make a boiled 
frosting and stir in lib chopped English walnuts. 

SPONGE CAKE. 
One cupful of sugar, two cupfuls of sifted flour, half a cup' 
ful of cold water and three eggs, with a teaspoonf ul of baking" 
powder ; flavor with lemon ; bake in a moderate oven. 



Work in a quart of bread dough, a tablespoonful of butter, 
half a cupful of sugar, with one cupful of dried currants ; add 
flour to make dough, make iu cake, shake, rub with melted 
butter, put in a pan and let rise. Rusks.— In one pint of milk 
dissolve one yeast cake, add three eggs, one cupful of sugar 
and beat together ; sift in flour to make dough, add two ounces 
of butter; let rise, work well, make in rusks, put in a pan to 
lighten, bake in a quick oven ; sprinkle with sugar. 




COFFEE CAKE. 



Lemon Cake. 




How to Make All Kinds of Cake: 



489 



Economy Cake. 

I cup of sugar, i cup of buttermilk, i egg, butter the size 
of an egg, 2 cups of flour, i teaspoonful of soda. 

Boston Cakes. 

Beat to a cream : i teacup of butter, 3 cups of sugar. 
Then add : i cup of cream or milk, 6 well beaten eggs, 4 
teacups of sifted flour, a little salt, K pound of currants, i 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in one tablespoonful of milk. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 



Marble Cake. — Light. 

1 cup white sugar, ^ cup of butter, cup of milk, whites 
of three eggs, 2 cups prepared flour. 

Dark. 

% cup brown sugar, X cup butter, ^ cup molasses, X cup 
milk, nutmeg, i teaspoonful cinnamon, Yz teaspoonful 
allspice, Y teaspoonful soda, 2 cups flour, yolks of 3 eggs. Fill 
the pan with alternate spoonfuls of light and dark batter. 




JELLY OF TWO COLOURS. 



BREAD CAKE. 
Into 2 teacupfuls of light bread dough, work with the hands 
tYi teacupfuls sugar, 1 of butter, half a teacupful of milk, 2 
well-beaten eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, nutmeg to 
taste and a teacupful seeded raisins. A little more flour may 
be needed. Place in pan it is to be baked in and let rise again, 
and when light, bake in a moderate oven 10 or 60 minutes. 



440 



How to Make All Kinds of Cake. 




Silver Cake. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, the whites of 
three eggs, half a cupful of cornstarch, dissolved in nearly- 
half a cupful of milk ; one and a fourth cupfulsof flour, half 
a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-fourth of a teaspoonful 
of soda, and vanilla or almond flavor. Beat the butter to a 
cream and gradually beat in the sugar. Add the flavor. 
Mix the flour, cream of tartar and soda together, and sift. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add the corn starch and 
milk to the beaten sugar and butter, then add the whites of 
the eggs and the flour. Mix quickly and thoroughly. Have 
the batter in sheets, and about two inches deep. Bake in a 
moderate oven for about half an hour. A chocolate frosting 
is nice with this cake. 

Gold Cake. 

One cupful of sugar, Yz cupful of butter, the yolks of three 
eggs and i whole egg, % cupful of milk, X ot a. teaspoonful 
each of soda and cream of tartar, cupfuls of flour. Mix 
the butter and sugar together, and add the eggs, milk, 
flavor and flour, in the order named. Bake the same as the 
silver cake. A white frosting is good with this cake. 

Angel Cake. 

The whites of ii eggs, cupfuls of granulated sugar, i 
•"upful of pastry flour, measured after being sifted 4 times ; 
I teaspoonful of cream of tartar, i of vanilla extract. Sift 
ihe flour and cream of tartar together. Beat the whites to 
a stiff froth. Beat the sugar into the eggs, and add the 
seasoning and flour, stirring quickly and lightly. Beat until 
ready to put the mixture in the oven. Use a pan that has 
little legs at the top corners, so that when the pan is turned up- 
side down on the table, after the baking, a current of air will 
pass under and over it. Bake for 40 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Do not grease the pan. 



How to Make All Kinds of Cake. 



441 




Watermelon Cake. 
White Part. — One teacupful each of butter and milk, 
two teacupfuls sugar, three and one half teacupfuls 
flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, i teaspoonful extract 
of lemon and the whites of 8 eggs. Red Part. — One cupful 
red sugar, Yz cupful butter, ^ cupful milk, 2 cupfuls flour, 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder and a teacupful raisins ; bake 
in a pan with a tube in the center. Place the red part 
around the center of the pan and the white around the out- 
side of this. Frost when done. 




FRUIT CAKE. 

HOLIDAY CAKE. 



A Small Fruit Cake. 
% cup of sugar, ^ cup of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of mo 
lasses, X of a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, 4 eggs, 
cupful of citron cut fine, pound of seeded raisins, % 
pound of well washed currants and blanched almonds, I 
grated nutmeg, i tablespoonful each of cloves and cinna- 
mon, 2 cups of sifted flour. Flavor with lemon essence, 
and at the very last add the whites of the eggs, well beaten. 
Bake one hour in a moderate oven. 

Coffee Cake. 
Mix quite stiff, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour: 
I cup of brown sugar, i cup of molasses, I cup of butter, I 
egg, I cup of strong coffee, 2 cups of raisins, Y2 ounce of 
powdered cloves, Yi ounce of powdered cinnamon, Yt ounce 
of soda, I grated nutmeg, 4 or 5 cupfuls of flour. 



44% How to Make All Kinds of Cake, 

Sunshine Cake. 
This is made almost exactly like angel cake. Have the 
whites of 1 1 eggs and the yolks of six, l Yz cupfuls of granu- 
lated sugar, measured after sifting ; i cupful of flour, meas- 
ured after sifting ; i teaspoonful or cream of tartar and i of 
orange esttract. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and gradu- 
ally beat in the sugar. Beat the yolks in a similar manner, 
and add to them the whites and sugar and flavor. Finally, 
stir in the flour. Mix quickly and well. Bake for fifty min- 
utes in a slow oven, using a pan like that for angel cake. 




Citron Cake. 



Beat separately the whites and yolks of 4 eggs, 3 cups o! 
sugar, I cup of butter, Yz cup of sweet milk, 3 cups of flour, 
2Yt. teaspoonfuls of baking jiowder, lYi. cups of chopped 
citron, rolled in flour. This is best baked in pans about 
twice as long as wide. The pan should be large enough so 
as to have the batter about inches thick. 

Nut Cake. 

2 cups of sugar, l cup of butter, I cup of milk, 3 eggs, 3 
cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 2 cups of any 
kind of nut kernels. 

Chocolate Cake. 
2 cups of sugar, % cup of butter, 1 cup of milk, 2 cups of 
flour, I cup of corn starch, yolks of 5 eggs. Beat the butter 
and sugar to a cream, then put in the eggs, stirring them 
well together ; add the milk and com starch, then the flour, 
first mixing it with the baking powder. Bake in jelly tins. 
For the icing : )i cake of Baker s chocolate, cup of sweet 
milk, I teaspoonful of corn starch, i teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Grate the chocolate into the milk and dissolve it, heat tha 
milk to the boiling point; stir the corn starch in a little 
cold milk, and add to the chocolate and milk. 



How to Make A II Kinds of Cake. 

SNOW CAKE. 
Cream % teacupful butter with 2 teacupfuls sugar ; add 1 
teacupful each of sweet milk and corn starch, 2 teacupfuls 
flour, VA teaspoonfuls baking powder, and flavoring to taste; 
lastly add the well beaten whites of 7 eggs. Stir these In 
lightly and bake in a dish, preferably one with a pipe. Bake 
40 to 45 minutes. 

PUFF CAKE. 
Beat to a cream M teacupful butter and 1 teacupful sugar j 
add in the order named, the yolks of two eggs well beaten, X 
teacupful milk, teacupfuls sifted flour, the whites of two 
eggi beaten stiff, and 1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder 
siftsd In the last thing. Flavor with vanilla, and bake In aloaf . 



WHITE SPONGE CAKE OR "ANGEL FOOD." 

One-and-a-half cupfuls pulverized sugar, one cup flour, 
twelve whites of eggs, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one 
teaspoonful flavoring. 

DIRKCTIONS FOR PREPARING. 

Sift the sugar and flour three times separately, then mix and 
•tir in the well-beaten whites of twelve eggs. Stir the cream 
•f tartar in with the sugar and flour before putting in the eggs, 
▲dd the flavoring and bake in a medium oven. 

ORANGE CAKE. 
Mix smoothly one teacupful granulated sugar with half a 
teacupful butter, add the well-beaten yolk of three eggs, % 
cup of milk, a tablespoonful lemon juice uid cupa flour, 
with which is sifted 2 teaspoonfu bakiim: powder. Lastly 
add the whites beaten stiff. Bake 5n foi;; lasers For a fill- 
ing, to be put in when the cakes aiv cold, chop fine t or 4 
peeled oranges, sweeten and spread tiu<ni over 3 of the layers, 
cover these and the top layer with ^^ snft boiled frosting mad* 
with the whites of the eggs, sweetened to taste and flarore* 
with a little grated lemon peel. Pile these together adding 
frosMag to sides as well as on top. 





444 



How to Make A II Kinds of Cake. 



Reliable Sponge Cake. 

Beat three eggs 3 minutes, add teacupfuls sugar and 

beat 5 minutes ; 
then stir in a 
teacupful flour 
\vith which is 
sifted one tea- 
spoonful cream 
of tartar. Beat 
three minutes 
before adding 
% teacupful of 
cold water in 
which is de- 
solved y2 tea- 
spoonful soda ; 
lastly stir in I 
teacupful flour and mix thoroughly. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

CocoANUT Cake. 

Cream two cupfuls of sugar and half a cupful of butter 
together, sift in three cupfuls of flour with two teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder, pour in a cupful of milk, flavor with 
lemon, and lastly, add the well-beaten whites of eight eggs. 
Bake in jelly-pans, and spread grated cocoanut and pow- 
dered sugar, mixed, between. 

White Mountain Cake. 

Cream one pound of sugar and a half a pound of butter 
together ; sift in one pound of flour with two teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder, add half a cupful of milk and the stiffly- 
beaten whites of ten eggs. Flavor with bitter almond ex- 
tract. Pour in cake-mold and bake 40 minutes. 




Sponge Cake. 



How to Make LxLyer Cakes. 



445 




Layer Cakes. 

Cream Cake. 

2 cups powdered sugar, 2/ cupful butter, 4 eggs, K cup« 
ful milk, Yz teaspoonful soda, i teaspoonful cream tartar, 3 
cups flour. Bake in layers as for jelly cake, and when cola 
spread the following mixture between the layers : %. pint of 
milk, 2 small teaspoonfuls corn starch, i egg, i teaspoonful 
vanilla, cup sugar. Let the milk come to a boiling point, 
and stir in the corn starch wet with a little cold milk. Beat 
the egg and sugar together, take out a portion of the boiling 
mixture and gradually beat it into the eggs and sugar ; re- 
turn to the rest of the custard, and boil, stirring constantly 
until quite thick. When cool season with vanilla and 
spread between the layers. 

CocoANUT Cake. 

2 cups powdered sugar, Y2. cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 
3 cups flour, 2 tablespoonfuls cream tartar, i teaspoonful 
soda. Bake in Jelly tms. 

Filling. — I grated cocoanut. To one-half of this add 
whites of three eggs, beaten to a froth, and one cup of powd- 
ered sugar. Spread between the layers. Mix the other half 
of the grated cocoanut with four tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar, and strew thickly on top of cake. 

Jelly Cake. 

Beat to a cream : 2 cups of sugar, Yt cup of butter, then 
add three-quarters of a cup of milk, i large tablespoonful of 
baking powder, mixed in two and a half cups of flour. The 
frothed whites of eight eggs. Bake in jelly pans, and when 
cool, spread jelly between the layers. 



146 How to Make Layer Cakes. 




Strawberry Cake. 

Mix into a dough: 5 cups of flour, i teaspoonful of 
salt, 4 well beaten eggs, enough milk to make it rol\ 
nicely. Roll th<;m, and place a crust in the bottom of a 
shallow pan, then a thick layer of strawberries sugared to 
taste. Cover with a thin layer of crust, then another 
layer of strawberries and sugar. Cover the whole with 
another layer of crust, and bake in a quick oven, twenty 
minutes. 

Custard Cake. 

2 eggs, I cup of sugar, J4 cup of water, i cup of flour, 
I heaping tablespoonful of baking powder. Bake in 
layers. 

Custard, — % cup of sugar, ^ cup of milk, i tablespoon- 
ful of corn starch, butter the size of a hickory nut. Flavor 
with lemon. Boil until as thick as jelly. Spread be- 
tween the layer* when they are cool.. 

Hickory Nat Cake. 

2 cups of sugar, ^ cup of butter, 4 eggs, 4^ cup« of 
flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake qufckly in 
jelly pans. 

For tht Filling. — Beat together i cup of sugar, 2 eggs, 
J4 cup of corn starch, i cup of fine chopped hickorynut 
karnels, I pint of milk. Boil until a custard, and when 
cool spread between the layers of the cake. 

Jam Cakt. 

cups of sugar (brown), 2-3 cup of butter, eup 
ef jam (strawberry preferred), Yi cup of sour cream, 3 
eggs, 2 cups of flour, i teaspoon of soda, i teaspoon of 
cinnamon, 5^ teaspoon of cloves, nutmeg. Bake in 
layers. Put together with icing. 



Mow to Make All Kinds of Frosting. 447 




HOW TO MAKE ALL KINDS OF FROSTING. 



Boiled Frosting. 

White of I egg beaten to a stiff froth, i cupful of 
granulated sugar, moistened with 4 tablespoonfuls of hot 
water; boil sugar briskly for five minutes, or until it 
"jingles" on the bottom of the cup when dropped in cold 
water; then pour the boiling syrup on the egg in a small 
stream, beating hard at the same time. 

Gelatine Frosting. 

Dissolve a teaspoonful of gelatine in 54 of a cup of 
boiling water; strain, thicken with a cup of sugar, and 
flavor with lemon. 

Every Day Frosting. 

Beat the whites of 3 eggs stiff; add cups of pow- 
dered sugar gradually, beating briskly all the time. Fla- 
vor with vanilla. 

Frestlnp. 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth, add gradually 
}4 pound of pulverized sugar, beat very thoroughly, flavor 
with lemon juice. To color a delicate pink, use the juice 
q£ strawberries, currants or cranberries or a very little 
cochineal. 



448 



How to Make All Kinds of Frosting, 



FROSTrflG. 

Whites of 4 eggs, I pound of powdered sugar, lemon^ 
vanilla or other flavoring. Break the whites into a broad, 
cool dish. Throw a small handful of sugar upon them, and 
begin whipping it in with slow steady strokes of the beater. 
In a short time throw in more sugar, and keep adding it un- 
til it is all used up. Beat perseveringly until icing is of a 
smooth, fine and firm texture. If not stiff enough put in 
more sugar. Lemon juice whitens the icing. 




Plain Frosting. 
Beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, then «t!r in ten 
heaping teaspoonfuls pulverized sugar, well heaped, but ntjt 
all you can take up on the spoon, and one or cornstarch ; be 
sure that it is thoroughly beaten before taking the cake 
from the oven. Invert a milkpan, place the cake on the 
pan and apply frosting ; it will be as sniooth as glass, and 
adhere firmly to the cake. 

Chocolate Frostino. 
^ cup of grated chocolate, 3 cups of powdered sugar, the 
whites of four eggs. Beat the whites t)ut very little, they 
must not become white, and stir in the chocolate, then pour 
in the sugar gradually, beating to mix it well. 



How to Make All Kinds of Frosting, 449 




Yellow Frosting. 
The yolk of one egg to nine heaping teaspoonfuls of ptU- 
venzed sugar ; flavor with variUa. Use the same day it ts 
made. 

Frosting Without Eggs. 
Place one cup of sugar in a basin, add three tablespoon- 
fuls of milk, put it on the stove and let it bou five minutes; 
take off, and stir until perfectly white, adding any flavor! 
You can make a chocolate frosting of it b) adding a square 
of Baker's chocolate, well shaved or meltea, just as yon 
teke it from the stove. 



450 



How to Make All Kinds of Cookies. 




How to Make all Kinds of Cookies. 

ECONOMICAL COOKIES. 

1 cup of sugar, M cup of butter, 1 cup of water, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, flavor with lemon. Flour enough to 
roll out thin, cut with a biscuit cutter. 

NICE COOKIES. 

2 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, }4 cup of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sweet milk, 2 teaspoonf uls of baking powder, flour enough 
to stiffen. Mix soft and flavor with vanilla. 

COOKIES 

2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 2 eggs, H cup of milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar }4 teaspoonful of soda, flour to roll 
stiff. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 
1 cup of butter, 2 cups of molasses, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 1 
tablespoonful ginger. Sufficient flour to make a soft dough. 
Mould with the hands into small cakes, and bake in a steady 
Mther than quick oven, as they are apt to burn. 

SOET GINGER COOKIES. 
1 pint of molasses, 1 cup of lard, 1 cup of water, lyi tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar, % teaspoonful soda, 1 tablespoonful 
6t ginger. Flour enough to roll as stiff as possible. 



How to Make All Kinds of Cookies. 



451 



GINGER SNAPS. 
Melt a quArter of a pound of butter, the same of lard, and 
mix them with : % pound of brown sugar, i pint of molasses, 
2 tablespoonfuls of ginger, 1 quart of flour. Dissolve two tea. 
spoonfuls of saleratus in a wine-glass of milk, and strain it ir.- 
to the cake. Add sufficient flour to enable you to roll it out 
very thin, cut into cookies, and bake in a slow oven. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of sugar, i cup of butter and lard 
mixed, 1 egg, M cup of boiling water, 1 teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in water, 2 teaspoonfuls of ginger. Flour enough to 
mould rather soft. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

2 cups of molasses, 1 cup of butter, melted into it, K cup of 
water, 2 teaspoonfuls of soda, 3 teaspoonfuls of ginger, flour 
enough to roll soft. Bake with a hot fire. Watch carefully as 
they burn very easily. 




GINGERBREAD. 



SOFT GINGER BREAD. 
2 well beaten eggs, 1 cupful of molasses, >^ teacupful of 
lard, % teacupful of butter, 1 tablespoonful of ginger, 1 tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, 1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved 
in yi teacupful of milk, a pinch of salt, 3 cups of flour. 
Bake slowly for half an hour. Watch that it may not burn. 

PLAIN GINGERBREAD. 
2 cups molasses, K cup lard, M cup butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
soda, dissolved in hot water, 2 tablespoonfuls ginger, 1 cup 
sour milk, thicken with flour to a stiif dough. Warm the 
molasses, lard, butter, and ginger and beat them well for about 
ten minutes before adding the milk, soda, and flour. Roll ia- 
to shape and bake in a quick but not too hot oven. 6rusi:i 
•ver with white of egg while hot. 



452 How to Make Doughnuts, Fritters, Etc. 




RISEN DOUGHNUTS. 
1 pound jautter, l ^ pounds sugar, i quart sweet milk, 
4 eggs, I large cup yeast, I tablespoonful mace or nutmeg, 
2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, flour to make stiff as bread dough, 
I teaspoonful salt. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, 
add the milk, yeast, and a quart «f flour. Set to rise over 
night. In the morning add the eggs, well beaten, spice, 
and the rest of the flour. Let rise until light ; roll into 
thick sheets, cut into shape and fry in hot lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

I cup sour cream, i cup sugar, i egg, a small teaspoon- 
ful of soda, teaspoonful of salt, flavor to taste. Mix soft, 
roll three-quarters of an inch thick, cut out with a round 
cookie cutter with a hole in the center. Fry in hot lard. 

FRIED CAKES. 

One coffee cup of not too thick sour cream or one of 
sour milk, and one teaspoonful butter, two eggs, a little 
nutmeg and salt, one teacup sugar, one smaU teaspoon of 
soda dissolved; mix soft. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one tumblerful sweet milk, 
one teaspoon soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, two large 
iron spoonfuls melted lard; stir sugar and eggs to a cream, 
then add other ingredients, and last just flour enough to 
roll nicely; cut in rings and fry in hot lard. 



ties and I'aru^ 



46a 




Pies and Tarts. 

Pastry. 

The water used in making pastry should always be cold 
and in summer ice water is best. The cook must be dexter- 
ous as well as skilled, for so much depends upon the hand- 
ling, that although pastry be made ever so well, unless it 
gets into the oven quickly, it will lose its elasticity and be- 
come heavy. Fruit and filling should always be cold when 
put into the crust. 

Pie Crust. 

Three leacupfuls of flour, half the quantity of butter, and 
half a teacup of lard ; work the lard and butter into the flour 
and pour in a teacupful of cold water ; knead into a firm 
dougn with the least possible handling ; roll out a thin sheet 
and place all over it pieces of butter set closely together; 
fold up and roll out again as before, repeating the process 
until the butter has been thoroughly assimilated with the 
dough, using a slight sprinkling of flour when needed. 

Apple Custard Pie. 
Make a very smooth apple sauce ; to each cupful add 
two eggs beaten light, and half a cup of fresh milk. Line a 
pie-plate with paste and fill with the custard. Bake with- 
out upper crust. 

Date Pie. 

Soak one pound of dates over night and stew until they 
can be strained ; mix with a quart of milk, three eggs, and 
add a little salt and nutmeg. Bake with an under-crust 
only. This will make three pies. 

Lemon Pie. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, two-thirds of a. cupful of 
of water, one teacupful of sugar, yolks of three eggs, the 

f rated rind and the juice of one lemon. Bake in a hot oven^ 
lix the whites of the eggs, well beaten, with three teaspoon- 
fuls of sugar. Spread over the top of the pie when done, 
and return it to the oven until nicely browned. 



454 



Pies and Tarts. 



CocoANUT Pie. 
To a pint of scalded milk add half a teacupful of sugatj 
the yolks of two eggs and a dessertspoonful of corn starcli 
dissolved in milk ; beat all together ; cook in the boiling 
milk and add a teacupful of grated cocoanut which has been 
soaked in milk over night ; bake with the lower crust only. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, mix with two tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar and spread over the pie when baked, re- 
turn to the oven until nicely browned. 

Cream Pie. 

A scant half cup of corn starch, thoroughly mixed with 
one cup of sweet cream and half a cup of sugar. Flavor 
with lemon. Bake with one" crust. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Stew the pumpkin until soft. Strain through a sieve and 
for every pint take two eggs, one and one-half cups of sug- 
ar, one and one-half pints of milk, one-half teaspoonful of 

finger, and two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. Beat well and 
ake without upper crust. 

Mince Pie. 

One pound each of raisins, currants and sugar; stone and 
chop the raisins ; one pound of suet chopped very fine, two- 
thirds of an ounce each of candied lemon and orange peel, 
two large apples, chopped fine, one-third of an ounce cin- 
namon, two-thirds of a nutmeg, the juice of one lemon and 
two-thirds of a gill of cider. Bake with two crusts. 

Tarts. 

Roll the paste very thin, line 
small patty pans, and bake. 
When done and cold, fill with 
any kind of preserves, jelly or 
COMPOTE OF APPLES. marmalade. 

Chocolate Tartlets. 
Four eggs, one-half cake of chocolate, grated ; one table- 
spoonful corn starch, dissolved in milk ; three tablespoon- 
fuls of milk ; four tablespoonf uls of sugar ; a heaping tea- 
spoonful of butter, a pinch of salt, flavor to suit. Rud th« 
chocolate smooth in the milk, heat over the fire and add the 
cornstarch, wet with more milk. Stir until thickened, then 
pour out. When cold beat in the yolks of the eggs, sugar 
and flavoring. Bake in small patty pans lined with paste. 
Cover with the whites beaten to a froth to which a little 
sugar has been added. 




How to Make A II Kinds of Puddings. 



455 




How to Make all Kinds of Puddings. 

Chocolate Pudding. 
For one quart of sweet milk take a teacupful bread 
crumbs, two-thirds cupful of grated chocolate, the yolks of 
4 eggs and one teacupful sugar. Heat milk and crumbs t9 
moderate warmth and stir into them the sugar, chocolate 
and yolks, well beaten together with a tablespoonful of com 
starch previously moistened with a little milk or water. 
Stir until scalding hot, then pour into a dish and cover the 
top with the egg whites beaten stiff and sweetened. Bake 
brown. Serve cold. 

"Brown Betty." 

A very simple but palatable dessert is made thus : Cut 
stale bread in very small squares or slices, and place a tea- 
cupful in the bottom of an earthen pudding dish. Over 
this put a thick layer of sliced sour apples; sprinkle them 
thickly with sugar and cinnamon and a few bits of butter ; 
then more crumbs, apples, etc., until the dish is full. 
Finish with the crumbs, and then pour over half a pint boil- 
ing water, cover closely and bake in a moderate oven. 
When the apples begin to soften, remove the cover and 
bake to a delicate brown. To be eaten cold with cream or 
milk, preferably the former. 

Suet Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of suet, chopped fine, one cup 
of raisins or English currants, chopped fine, one-half cup of 
sweet milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda. Stir with 
flour like cake. Steam three hours. 



456 



How to Make All Kinds of Puddings. 



The Queen of Puddings. 

\% cup white sugar, 2 cups fine dry bread-crumbs, 5 eggs, 
I tablespoonful of butter, vanilla or lemon seasoning, i quart 
fresh milk and one-half cup jelly. Rub the butter into a 
cup of sugar ; beat the yolks very light, and stir these to- 
gether to a cream. Add the bread-crumbs soaked in milk 
and the seasoning. Bake in a large buttered pudding dish, 
filling it about two-thirds full, until the custard is "set". 
Draw to the mouth of the oven, spread over the jelly or 
other nice fruit conserve. Cover this with a meringue 
made of the whipped whites and a half cup of sugar. Shut 
the oven and bake until the meringue begins to color. Eat 
cold with cream. You may, in the fruit season, substitute 
tfie fresh fruit for preserves. 

Snow Pudding. 

Dissolve in one pint of hot water 
one-half ounce of gelatine. After it 
has cooled add the beaten whites of 
three eggs, one teacupful of sugar, 
and the juice of two lemons. Pout 
the whole into a mould. When set 
put into a dish, pour over it a quart of 
custard, flavored with vanilla, and set 
on the ice until served. 

Bread Pudding. 

2 cups of grated bread crumbs, 3 eggs, sugar to taste, 
season with nutmeg or cinnamon, milk to make very thin. 
Bake about thirty minutes. The white of one of the eggs 
may be saved and beaten to a stiff froth to which add a 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar. This may be spread on 
the top of the pudding when it is done. Place it back into 
the oven a moment to brown. 




How to Make All Kinds of Puddings. 



457 



Home Puddingy. 

2 eggs, I cup of sugar, cup of milk, cups of flour, 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, i tablespoonful of melt- 
ed butter. Bake twenty or thirty minutes. Serve with 
cream and sugar or with lemon sauce. 

Raisin Pudding. 

Pour 2 cups of boiling milk over i teacupful of bread 
crumbs, add 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. Let stand until 
perfectly cool; then add: i cupful of seeded raisins, i cup 
of sugar, I cup of cream, the yolks of H dozen eggs, 
lastly the well whipped whites. To be served with sauce. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Sweeten i quart of sweet milk with i cup of white 
sugar and let come to a boil; when it boils pour into it 
4 tablespoonfuls of corn starch dissolved in one well 
beaten egg and a little milk; add i cup of boiling milk and 
2 cups of grated chocolate. When it is done pour into 
a mold. Serve with cream and sugar when cold. 

Corn-starch Pudding. 

4 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, i quart of milk, 4 eggs 
(whites and yolks separate), ^ cup of sugar, nutmeg and 
cinnamon, i taolespoonful of butter. Let the milk come 
to a boil, stir in the corn-starch dissolved in a little 
cold milk. Let boil three minutes, sti'-ring all the time. 
Remove from the fire and add the butter. Set away until 
cold; beat the eggs very light-^the sugar and seasoning 
with them; stir into the corn-starch, beating thoroughly 
tj a smooth custard. Turn into a buttered dish and bake 
half an hour. Eat cold, with powdered sugar sifted over 
it, 

(xraham Pudding. 

I cup of raisins seeded and chopped, i cup of molasses, ' 
'I teaspoonful of soda dissolved in i scant cup of sweet 
milk, Yz teaspoonful salt, 2 cupfuls of graham flour. 
Steam three hours. Serve with cream or hot sauce. 

Peach Pudding. 

Stir peaches into a batter made of Y2 cup of sugar, % 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, i cup of milk, I egg 
well beaten, i pint of flour, 3 teaspoonful.s of baking pow- 
der. Bake in loaf. Serve with cream, 
30 



458 



Heiv to Make All Kinds of Puddings. 




Green Corn Pudding-. 

With a sharp knife cut lengthwise through the kernels 
of six large cars of corn; then slice ofT the slit kernels and 
with back of knife scrape the rest from the ear. Mix 
thoroughly with this pulp 2 well beaten eggs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls each of sugar and butter, teaspoonful salt, 
6 rolled crackers and i teacupful milk. Bake three hours 
in a greased pudding dish. Eat with a hot sauce. 

Pie-plant Pudding. 

Peel the stalks and cut them into small pieces; allow 
same weight of sugar as of pie-plant. Cover the bottom 
of an earthen pudding dish with the cut plant and sugar, 
then spread on a layer of bread crumbs and bits of butter; 
next more pie-plant, and so on alternately until the dish 
is full, finishing with bread crumbs. Cover and bake in 
a moderate oven until the pie-plant is cooked; then re- 
move and brown the top. When ready for the table, a 
boiled custard may be poured over it, though the dish 
is good without. 

Taylor Pudding. 

I cup of milk, I cup of molasses, i cup of suet, chopped 
fine, 2 cups of raisins stoned and chopped, 3 cups of 
sifted flour, with 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, i tea- 
spoonful of salt, anu i teaspoonful each of allspice, cin- 
namon and nutmeg. Boil in a mold four hours, and eat 
with a liquid sauce. 

Boston Pudding. 

I cup of chopped suet, i cup of sweet milk, 2 cups of 
raisins, i cup of molasses, 3 cups of sifted flour, i tea- 
spoonful of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. For extra occa- 
sions add I cup of currants and Yz cup of sliced citron. 
Season with cloves and cinnamon to taste. Boil three 
hours. Eat with hard sauce. 



I How to Make A II Kinds of. Puddings. 459 




Bread Pudding. 
I quart of milk, 2 cups of fine bread crumbs (dry and 
stale), 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, nutmeg to 
taste, X teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. Beat the 
yolks very light and mix with the bread crumbs which have 
previously been well soaked in the milk. Stir these to- 
gether ; then add the butter, seasoning, soda and the whites 
in the order named. Bake to a fine brown, and eat hot with 
sweetened cream or with pudding sauce. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. 
Soak one cup of tapioca in three pints of water (cold) over 
night. In the morning let boil twenty or thirty minutes, or 
until it looks clear. Add i K quarts of pared and quartered 
apples, I cupful of sugar, i teaspoonful of salt. Flavor 
with lemon. Bake \]i hours in a buttered dish. Serve 
when cold, with sugar and cream. 

Rice Pudding. 
I coffee-cup rice, 2 quarts milk, 8 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
I teaspoonful salt, butter the size of an egg (melted), nut- 
meg or cinnamon to taste. Soak the rice in one pint of the 
milk two hours, then add the rest of the milk, the sugar, 
salt, butter and spice. Bake two hours. Eat cold. 

A Splendid Pudding. 
Bake a common sponge cake in a flat buttered pudding 
dish, or take stale cake on hand, cut in six or eight pieces. 
Split and spread with butter and return them to the dish. 
Make a custard with four eggs to a quart of milk, flavor 
and sweeten to taste. Pour over the cake and bake about 
thirty minutes. The cake will swell up and fill the custard. 

Apple Pudding. 
Remove the core of as many apples as you wish and cut 
them just in half, place them in a pudding dish, the round 
side down. Fill the hollow places with a little butter, sugar 
and cinnamon. Pour a milk and egg custard over all, and 
bake for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Serve with cream 
and sugar, 



460 How to Make all Kinds of Puddings. 




Sauce. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, seven tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, a little nutmeg. Stir all to- 
gether, and pour on boiling water and let it boil on the stove. 
When ready to serve, add to the sauce one large teaspoon- 
ful of your favorite jelly. 

Old English Plum Pudding. 
Take one-half cup of lard and one-half cup of butter, two 
cups of English currants. Mix all these (currants and 
shortening) dry through some flour, add water to make a 
dough as stiff as pie crust ; take one-third of this mixed 
dough and roll out in a large, round sheet. On it put a cup 
and a half of sugar and two-thirds of a cup of butter and a 
cup of currants. Draw the crust around this like a dump- 
ling ; roll out the rest of the dough and wrap it around the 
dumpling ; tie this up securely in a cloth, to boil three 
hours. To be eaten with sauce or simply with moistened 
sugar. 

Christmas Plum Pudding. 
One coffeecup of raisins, stoned and cut up, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of chopped suet 
(or if you have it, a half cup of butter), three cups of flour, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, one teaspoonful each of salt, 
cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. Steam three hours. To be 
eaten with a rich sauce. 

Delmonico Pudding. 
Heat a quart of milk to boiling and stir into it 3 table- 
spoonfuls corn starch previously moistened ; let it boil a 
few minutes, then add the yolks of 5 eggs beaten with 6 
tablespoonfuls sugar and half a teaspoonful extract of van- 
illa. Place the whole in a pudding dish and bake. Beat 
the whites stiff, add 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls sugar and a few 
drops extract of lemon ; spread this over the pudding as 
soon as done, or lay it on in spoonfuls ; return to oven anii 
bake to a nice yellow. 



How to Make All Kinds, of Puddings. 



461 




Steamed Indian Pudding. 

One pint each of sour milk and of Indian meal, i teacup* 
ful rye flour (or in absence of rye flour use white flour), \^ 
teacupful molasses, one teaspoonful salt and a large one of 
soda. Dissolve the soda in a little warm water and stir it 
in after the other ingredients are well mixed. Lastly add 
half a teacupful raisins. Steam in a mold 3 or 4 hours. For 
a sauce take a teacupful molasses, half as much water, i 
tablespoonful butter, a pinch of salt, 3 tabloepoonfuls vine- 
gar. Boil together 15 or 20 minutes. 



A Glace Cherry Pudding. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one-half cup ot 
milk, one and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of vanilla flavoring. Bake 
in the round lids of baking powder tins. While these are 
baking, boil two tablespoonfuls of sugar, three-fourths of a 
cup of milk, one Ikrge tablespoonful of corn starch and the 
beaten white of one egg. Flavor with one-half teaspoonful 
of vanilla extract. When the puddings are baked, and 
while this mixture is still hot, spread one large teaspoonful 
smoothly over the top of each pudding. 

Have white glac^ cherries cut into halves. Place about 
six of these pieces around the top of each pudding. For 
the sauce, boil three-fourths of a cup of sugar, one and one- 
half cups of milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one table- 
spoonful of corn starch, the yolks of three eggs, and one 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Pour the sauce around each 
little pudding. Serve hot. These quantities sufficient 
for twelve persons. ^ 



462 How to Make A II Kinds of Pudding, 




Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Cut bread in rather thin slices, remove crusts, lay the 
buttered slices in a pudding dish and sprinkle currants 
liberally over the bread layers. When the dish is nearly 
full, pour a boiled custard over it ; bake 15 to 20 minutes. 
Serve with sauce. 

Blackberry Sponge. 

Cover half a box of gelatine with a cupful of cold water 
and soak for half an hour, pour over a pint of boiling water, 
add half a cupful of sugar and stir until dissolved ; strain 
in a pint of blackberry juice, mix, and pour in a tin pan. 
Set on ice until thick, then beat to a froth, add the beaten 
whites of four eggs and mix smooth. Pour in a mold and 
set on ice to harden. Serve with vanilla sauce. 

Cherry and Tapioca Pudding. 

Soak one teacupful tapioca over night in its bulk of cold 
water ; in the morning put it on the fire adding 2 teacupfuls 
of hot water and bring to a boil ; add i % pounds stoned 
cherries, and sugar enough to sweeten. When the cherries 
are cooked through take up in a mold and set in a cool 
place to stiffen. Serve with sugar and whipped cream. 



How to Make All Kinds of Puddings, 483 




Quick Pudding. 
Set a quart of milk to cook on the stove, and when it boils 
stir in flour smoothly until it becomes quite thick. Salt and 
sugar to taste. An egg may be added if desired. Serve 
hot with a sauce made as follows : Beat a tablespoonfal 
of sugar and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut t* 
a cream. Then pour on a pint of milk and let boil tea 
minutes. 

CocoANUT Pudding. 
I pint of milk, yolks of two eggs (well beaten), two table- 
spoonfuls cocoanut, %. teacup of rolled cracker crumbs. 
Sweeten and flavor to taste. Bake thirty minutes. Make a 
frosting of the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth, and a 
cup of sugar. Spread over the top. 

Tapioca Pudding. 
Soak one-half cupful of tapioca in luke-warm watet ova* 
night. In the morning put into it I quart of sweet miU^ 
4 eggs, whites and yolks well beaten and added separately, 
cup of sugar, Yi teaspoonful of salt. Boil until it creams, 
stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. Jelly laid on ia 
spoonfuls may be added, or it maybe eaten with cream aa4 
sugar. 



464 



How to Make All Kinds of Pudding Sauces. 



Bow to Make all Kinds of Pudding Sauces. 

Lemon Sauce. 
Beat together, until light : The yolks of two eggs, i cup 
of sugar, yi cup of butter, i tablespoonful of corn starch, 
the juice of one lemon. Stir this into one cup and a half 
of boiling water, until sufficiently thick for the table. 

Vanilla Sauce. 
Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and then beat 
in cup of powdered sugar, the yolk of one egg, i tea- 
spoonful of vinilla. 

Apricot Sauce. 
1 cupful of canned apricots, i cupful of sugar, I cupful of 
milk, I tablespoonful of corn starch, cupful of water. Put 
the milk onto boil. Mix the cornstarch with a little cold 
milk, and stir into the boiling milk. Cook ten minutes. 
Boil the sugar and water together for twenty minutes. Rub 
the apricots into a sieve, and stir it into the syrup. Beat 
well, and then beat it into the boiled milk and corn starch. 
Place the sauce pan in cold water and stir eight minutes, 
and set away to cool. 

Cream Sauce. 
I cupful of powdered sugar, i egg, 2 cupfuls of whipped 
cream. Beat the white of the egg to a stift froth. Add the 
yolk and sugar and beat well. Flavor with vanilla, or lem- 
on, and add the cream last of all. 

Cold Cream Sauce. 
I cup of sugar, i cup of butter well beaten, i cup of good 
oream. Stir all well together, and place it where it wiU 
keep cool. 

Pudding Sauce. 
One spoonful of flour wet with a cup of milk, one half cup 
•f sugar, one half spoonful of butter. Boil slowly and flavor 
with extracts to taste. 

Pudding Sauce. 

I pint water made into a smooth starch with a heaping 
tablespoon flour. Cook ten minutes, strain if necessary, 
sweeten to taste and pour it on i tablespoon butter and' 
juice of a lemon or other flavoring. If lemon is not used 
add I tablespoon vinegar. 

This can be made richer by using more butter and sugar; 
ittrthem in a cream with a flavoring, then add the starch. * 



How to Make Frozen or Other Desserts, 



465 




How to Make Frozen or Other Desserts. 

For Freezing Ice Cream. 

Have ice pounded in small pieces (pound in a bag), pack 
around the tin can a layer of ice about five inches deep, 
then a thin layer of salt, and so on until the tub is full, pack- 
ing down well. For a gallon can use three pints of rock salt 
and about ten quarts of ice. If packed solid no more ice or 
salt is needed. Do not drain off the water while freezing. 
If more salt is used the cream freezes sooner, but will not be 
so rich and smooth. 

Boiled Ice Cream. 

Take two quarts of sweet milk and one pint of sweet 
cream and let come to a boil. Take four tablespoonfuls 
com starch and dissolve in a little milk, five eggs, well 
beaten, one and one-half cups of sugar, beat thoroughly. 
Pour into the boiling milk and cream, stirring well and let 
come to a boil once more. Set away to cool, when thor- 
oughly cold, freeze. 

Any flavoring to suit the taste may be added, before cool- 
ing. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. 
Mash two pints of strawberries, and one pint of sugar to- 
gether, and let them stand one and one-half or two hours. 
Then rub through a strainer into one quart of cream and 
freeze. 

Ice Cream. 

Take one quart of milk, and one quart of cream, sweeten 
and flavor to taste. Let stand in the freezer fifteen minutes 
before commencing to freeze. 



466 



How to Make Frozen or Other Deserti. 



Lemon Water Ice. 

Take two lemons and rasp them on 
sugar, the juice of six lemons, the 
juice of one orange, one pint of clari- 
fied sugar and half a pint of water. 
Mix all together, strain through a fine 
sieve and freeze. When nearly 
frozen add the white of three eggs. 

Currant Ice. 
Take two pounds of ripe, red currants and half a pound 
of raspberries, rub through a fine sieve into an earthen dish^ 
add about one pint of thick sugar syrup. Put into a 
freezer and freeze in the ordinary way. 

Almond Cream. 

Blanch and pound 
fine, with a little water, 
one and a half pounds 
of almonds ; beat the 
whites of two eggs to 
a froth, beat into this 
five ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, and to both add one quart of milk. Boil 
gently over a slow fire until reduced one-quarter, then 
add the almond paste and boil five minutes longer. Flavor 
to taste, and when cold sprinkle thickly with granulated 
sugar and brown, garnish with whole ahiionds, 

Snow Pyramids. 
Beat the whites of half a dozen eggs to a stifE aoih ; add a 
teacupful of currant jelly, and whip all together; fill saucers 
Ii^ full of cream, dropping into the centre of each a table- 
^onful of the egg and jelly in the shape of a pyramid. 





How to Make Ice Cream, Etc. 



467 



TUTTI FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of cream, one quart of new milk, thfee 
cups sugar, flavor with vanilla, one-half cup of nut meat 
(any kind), one-half cup chopped raisins and citron, one- 
laalf cup candied cherries; when cream is partly frozen 
add fruit and nuts well mixed. Very nice. 

LEMON ICE. 

Juice of eight lemons, two quarts of water, sugar to make 
a very sweet lemonade; partly freeze this mixture, then 
add the whites of five eggs beaten stiff, finish freezing and 
pack with ice until time to serve. Any fruit juice may be 
used in the same manner, but with most other fruits the 
.nice of two or three lemons makes a great addition to the 
flavor. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Take one large pineapple, add three quarts water, one 
ounce of dissolved gelatine, four lemons and the whites of 
six eggs; make very sweet and freeze. Oranges can be 
used instead of lemons if preferred. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

Make a plain egg and milk custard, three pints, add 
a cupful of partially chopped, blanched almonds and pour 
into the freezer. When just beginning to freeze add twc 
cups of whipped cream. Stir often while freezing so fhat 
the fruit will be well distributed. 

CAUTION FOR CANNED FRUITS. 

Never allow the contents of a tin can of fruit, or canned 
goods of any kind, to remain in the cans after they 
are opened. 

HOW TO CAN ALL KINDS OF FRUIT. 

1. Always pick the fruit when it is perfectly dry, for 
when it is rain-soaked it spoils very easily and will not 
keep as well. 

2. Look it over very carefully, removing all insects 
and hulls, and if sandy, place it in a cullender and turn 
cold water over it, and the sand will pass through the 
holes in the bottom. 



468 



How to Can AH Kinds of Fruit. 




3. Add sugar at the rate of two teacupfuls to a quart of 
fruit, but more or less may be added according to taste 
and kind of truit. 

4. Place the fruit in porcelain or granite-ware kettles, 
and heat till cooked through. 

5. Wring a towel, or piece of cotton cloth, out of cold 
water, and wrap it tightly around the can, then set the 
can into a tin containing one-half inch of water. 

6. Now place a long-handled spoon into the can and then 
with a small tin cup fill as rapidly as possible. When 
nearly full give it a good stir with the spoon to bring all 
the air bubbles to the top; fill full, turn down the cover as 
tight as you can and set aside to cool. 

7. When cool, tighten the cover again and set away 
in a cool, dry, dark place. Look at the cans occasionally, 
and if they show signs of working, re-cook them. 

8. If your cans are perfect and the cover as tight as 
you can turn it down upon the rubber, you will have 
no trouble; the fruit will keep perfectly well. 



How to Make Jellies. 



468 



9. If the fruit settles somewhat in the cans do not be 
alarmed, as most fruit shrinks some, strawberries most of 
all. If there is considerable juice left after the cans are 
all filled, it can be made into jelly, or it may be put with 
an equal amount of pieplant, cooked and canned. This 
makes a very palatable sauce for winter. 




HOW TO MAKE ALL KINDS OF JELLIES, JAMS, 
MARMALADES, APPLE BUTTER, ETC. 



Grape Jelly. 

Boil the grapes in a porcelain kettle and to every four 
quarts of grapes use half a pint of water. Boil until 
soft and then strain through a sieve or cloth. Boil the 
juice twenty minutes, and add a pound of sugar to every 
pound of juice. Then let it boil ten minutes and pour 
into jelly glasses. 

Currant Jelly. 

Put the currants into a vessel and put this vessel into 
another containing boiling water. Boil until thoroughly 
scalded, then squeeze them through a cloth. Put a pint 
of sugar into every pint of juice and boil on the fire, 
stirring it frequently. Five minutes boiling is sufficient. 

Blackberry Jelly. 

Mash the berries thoroughly, squeeze and strain the 
juice from them, put it on to boil a half hour with 



470 



How to Make Jellies. 



sugar, pint for pint. Pour into jelly glasses and place 
a piece of paper dipped in brandy over the top, before 
fastening the lid. 

Strawberry Jelly. 

To every two pounds of sugar add three quarts of straw- 
berries. Mash and let stand for two hours. Then press 
the juice from the berries. Then dissolve one box of 
gelatine in half a pint of cold water. Then mix, and add 
the juice of a lemon. Strain, and pour into glass dishes 
to harden. 

Raspberry Jelly. 

Raspberry jelly is made the same as strawberry. 
Lemon Jelly. 

Cut 6 bananas lengthwise. Slice 6 oranges. Dissolve 
a little more than ^ box of gelatine in Yz pint of cold 
water; then add Vz pint of boiling water, the juice of 
3 lemons, and sweeten to taste. 

Clear Apple Jelly. 

Pare and core 6 dozen of sour apples, put into a pan 
with water to cover them, boil gently until soft, let cool, 
and strain through a bag; to each pint of juice add one 
pound of sugar and the peel of two lemons, boil to the 
stiffness of calf's foot jelly, skim, and add the juice of one 
lemon. 

Fruit Jelly. 

Pare and slice very thin 8 oranges and 6 bananas, and 
arrange in layers in a charlotte-russe mold. Make a jelly 
of half a box of gelatine soaked in half a pint of cold 
water for two hours, then add half a pint of boiling water 
and the juice of 3 lemons; sweeten to taste; when it has 
partly cooled, pour this jelly over the fruit and set away 
in a cool place to harden. 

Orange Jelly. 

The juice of 8 oranges, juice of 2 lemons, i pound of 
white sugar, % of a box of gelatine, soaked in i pint of 
water for half an hour, then add % of a pint of boiling 
water, stir thoroughly, and strain through a flannel bag 
into molds. 



How to Make Jams. 



471 



Cider Jelly. 

Let 3 pints of cider come to a boil, and pour it over a 
box full of gelatine, that has been soaked in cold water 
for two hours, and add two cupfuls of sugar. Strain, pour 
into molds and put aside to harden. 

Tomato Jam. 

Stew lYi gallons of apples, and i gallon of tomatoes 
separately. Then put them together in a kettle, and ' 
add 6 pounds of sugar, i ounce of ground cloves, and 

1 ounce of ground cinnamon. 

Cherry Marmalade. 

Strain the cherries and add to every 3 pounds of cherries 
54 of a pint of currant juice. Now add ^ of a pound 
of sugar to every pound of fruit. Put on the fire and stir 
thoroughly. When it has boiled to thick jelly pour it 
into jars. 

Apple Butter. 

Stew your apples as you would for sauce, and to every 

2 gallons of cooked apples add 3 cups of cider vinegar 
and 4 pounds of sugar. Boil this down about one-third, 
or until there is about ij4 gallons. Flavor, when nearly 
done, with essence of, or ground cinnamon. 

Carrant and Raspberry Jam, 

Ingredients. — To every pound of red currants allow % 
pound of raspberries, weighed after the stalks are re- 
moved, and I pound of loaf sugar. 

Mode. — Place the fruit in the above proportion in the 
preserving pan, with i pound of sugar to every pound of 
fruit, stir and boil for three-quarters oi an hour after the 
mixture boils fast; remove the scum as it rises. Put the 
jam in pots. 

Grrape Jam. 

Ingredients. — Unripe grapes, sugar. 

Mode. — The grapes must not be quite ripe, and they 
should be most carefully picked and gently washed, all 
unsound ones being taken out. Allow half a pound of 
sugar to one pound of grapes. Put the fruit into a pre- 
serving-pan, without water, layer for layer with sugar. 
Boil rather quickly, stirring always. Pour, when cool, 
into pots as usual. 



472 



Preserves. 



HOW TO MAKE ALL KINDS OF PRESERYES. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES. 

Stone the cherries, preserving every drop of juice. Weigh 
the fruit, allowing pound for pound of sugar. Put a layer of 
fruit for one of sugar until all is used up; pour over the juio© 
and boil gently until the syrup begins to thicken. 

The short-stem red cherries, or the Morellas are best for 
preserves. Sweet cnerries will not do. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

Pound for pound. Put them in a preserving kettle over a 
slow fire until the sugar melts. Boil twenty-five minutes, fast. 
Take out the fruit in a perforated skimmer and fill a number 
of small cans three-quarters full. Boil and skim the syrup 
five minutes longer, fill up the jars, and seal while hot. Keep 
in a cool, dry place. 

PEAR PRESERVES. 
Weigh the pears after they are pared, and to every poun^ 
add three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, water enough to 
prevent them from burning, and the peel of a small lemon cut 
very thin. Let them stew gently for six or seven hours. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 
Pare, stone and quarter ripe free-stone peaches. To six 
pounds of peaches allow three pounds of brown sugar. Put 
the sugar over the peaches and let them stand over night; 
next morning place them in a preserving-kettle and boil for 
two hours, keeping it well skimmed. 

CRAB APPLE PRESERVES. 
If Siberian crabs, wipe them only, if French, they must be 
pared. Put the apples in and let them simmer until they are 
done, into a boiling syrup, made from too pints of lump sugar 
and one pint of cider. Reduce the syrup, and skira until It Is 
thick enough, and pour it over the fruit which has been placed 
in earthen or glass jars. 

RHUBARB PRESERVES. 
Slice six oranges into a stew pan, with the rind cut very 
small, a quart of rhubarb, cut fine, and two pounds of sugar 
Boil the whole down as any other preserves. 



How to Make all Kinds of Preserver. 473 



PRESERVED APPLES. 
Firm, wen-flavored pippins or bell-flovvei apples make an 
excellent preserve, prepared in the snnie manner as quinces 
A few quinces cut up among them, or the juice of two lemons 
to every three pounds of fruit improves tlicm. 

QUINCE PRESERVES. 
Into two quarts of boiling water put a quantity of golden 
pippin apples, not cut very thin, and not pared, but wiped 
clean. Keep them closely covered, boil quickly till the water 
becomes a thick jelly, then scald. To every cupfui of apple 
jelly put a half pound of sugar; boil it and skim it clear. Put 
those quinces that are to be done whole, into the syrup, and 
let it boil very fast; those that are to be in half by themselves; 
skim it, and when the fruit is clear, put some of the syrup 
into a glass to try whether it jellies, before taking from the 
fire. The quantity of quinces is to be a pound to a pound ot 
sugar, and a pound of jelly already boiled with tlie sugar. 

RIPE TOMATO PRESERVES. 
T lbs. round yellow or egg tomatoes— peeled 

7 lbs. sugar and juice of three lemons. 

Let them stand together over night. Drain off the syrup 
and boil it, skimming well. Put in the tomatoes and boi) 
gently twenty minutes. Take out the fruit with a perforated 
skimmer, and spread upon dishes. Boil the syrup down until 
it thickens, adding, just before you take it up, the juice ol 
three lemons. Put tlie fruit into jars and fill up with hot syrup, 
When cold, seal or tie up. 

GREEN TOMATO PRESERVES. 

8 lbs. small green tomatoes. Pierce each with a fork. 
7. lbs. sugar. 

4 lemons— the juice only. 
1 oz. ginger and mace mixed. 

Heat all together slowly, and boil until the fruit is clear. 
Take it from the kettle in a perforated skimmer, and spread 
upon dishes to cool. Boil the syrup thick. Put the fruit into 
Jars and cover with hot syrup. 



474 How to Make All Kitids of Drinks for the Sick. 




HOW TO MAKE ALL KINDS OF DRINKS FOB 
THE SICK. 

FROM TOKOLOGY. 



LEMONADE. 

Juice of half a lemon, one teaspoon sugar, one glass of 
water, either hot or cold, as the case requires. Hot lem- 
onade is an excellent remedy for colds and biliousness. 

ORANGE WHEY. 
Juice of one orange, one pint sweet milk. Heat slowly 
until curds form. Strain and cool. 

EGG LEMONADE. 

Juice of one lemon, one glass of water, white of one 
egg, one tablespoon sugar. Beat together. 

JELLY WATER. 

Sour jellies, or the canned juice of any fruit, make 
pleasant drinks when reduced with water and sweetened. 
OATMEAL TEA. 
Two tablespoons raw oat-meal, one quart water. Let 
stand two hours in a cold place, then drain off as wanted. 
TOAST WATER. 
Toast a thin slice of bread very brown. Let it stand 
m a bowl of cold water an hour before using. 

TAPIOCA MILK. 

J^A^\ ^^""^^ tablespoons tapioca one hour in cold water. 
AOd three cups boihng milk, sugar and flavoring to taste 
and simmer slowly thirty minutes. Eaten warm. Sago 
can also be used in the same w^. 



How to Make All Kinds of Drinks for the Sick. 475 



FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

Pour one pint boiling water over two tablespoons whole 
flaxseed, when cool strain and add the juice of two lemons, 
and two tablespoons honey. Used for coughs, colds and 
suppressed urine. 

BEEF TEA. 

Cut one pound lean beef in pieces, cover tightly in a 
bottle, placed in a pot of cold water. Heat slowly to a 
boil, which should be continued steadily four hours. 
When salted it is ready for use. It is a mild stimulant, 
but not very nourishing, and a patient confined to it long 
will slowly starve. 

EICE GRUEL. 

Steep two tablespoons rice slowly in one quart water, 
one hour. Strain, and add salt and a little cream. 

CORN TEA. 

Common corn parched brown. Grind it, and pour on 
boiling water. Can be used with or without cream. Used 
in nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. 

BRAN GRUEL. 

Bran of white wheat, one pint. Boil half an hour in 
three pints water. Strain, and salt it. May be thinned 
and flavored with lemon juice. 

CORN MEAL OR « WATER GRUEL." 

Wet one tablespoon sifted corn meal in cold water. Pre- 
'pare one quart boiling water in a gruel pan. Stir one 
spoonful of this cold batter into the boiling water, let it 
boil up, then add another, stirring thoroughly, and so on 
until the gruel is thick enough. Let it boil hard twenty 
minutes or longer. Salt and add a little cream. 
Gruel can be made of "graham the same way. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

Into one quart boiling milk stir one and one-half table- 
spoons flour, wet in cold water. Salt to taste. Can be 
made of "whole-wheat flour," arrow root, corn-starch, etc. 

BUTTERMILK. 

For some forms of dyspepsia, in fevers, and in cases of 
diabetes buttermilk is an excellent food. May be sealed 
like fruit in glass jars and kept some time. 



476 How to Make A II Kinds of Drinks for the Sick. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 
Two tablespoons oatmeal in one quart boiling water. Sift 
in Slowly and boil one hour, then strain and season. 

HOT MILK. 

Reduce the milk by adding one-tenth water. Heated in 
i double boiler to i io° F., or as hot as one can sip it slowly, it is 
a most valuable drink for any invalid. Especially would it 
be well for nursing mothers to try it, instead of the beer or 
porter so often ignorantly recommended to them. By its 
means mothers have been enabled to gain flesh during the. 
nursing period, which usually is such a draught upon the 
strength and flesh. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 
Boil the dark meat of half a chicken in one quart of water 
with little rice or barley. Take off the fat and use as soon 
as the rice is well cooked. Add bits of brown toast. 




MA C A RON I SO UP. 
Break into small pieces a handful of macaroni. Boil one 
hour. Strain two cups stewed tomatoes, and add to it, with 
oae cup of cream just before serving. 

FARINA SOUP. 
One half cup of farina, half cup of cream or one beaten 
egg, added to any soup stock, and boiled gently half an hour. 
TOMATO SOUP. 
One quart water, one pint tomatoes heated to boiling. 
Thicken with Graham flour— three tablespoons mixed with 
cold water. Add one quart of milk and stir until it boils, 
Season. 



lo Co0k All Kinds of Relishes for the Sick. 477 



LEMON JELLY. 
Stir into one pint of boiling water two tablespoons corn- 
starch, wet in cold water. Add part of a cup of sugar and 
juice of two lemons, with a little grated rind. Set in moulds 
to cooL 

Another Recipe for Lemon Jelly. 
Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in one quart water. Let it 
come to a boil in a saucepan. Add juice of three lemons, a 
little grated rind, and one cup of sugar, pour into moulds, 
and set on the ice to cool. 




How to Cook All Kinds of Relishes for the Sick. 

• • « pvora Tokology. • • • 

CRACKED OR ROLLED WHEAT. 

Cracked wheat should be stirred into boiling water and 
cooked in a double kettle ? hours. Salt and serve either hot 
or cold in moulds with fruit sauce, or cream and sugar. 
Rolled wheat may be cooked the same way, only it does not 
require to cook so long. . . 

Do not soak in cold water, but stir into water, as 

a// the grains should be. Wheat is excellent for constipation 
or biliousness. 

INDIAN MEAL MUSH. 
Commeal stirred into boiling water slowly and cooked 
thoroughly one hour— xtot less. 



478 Hovf to Cook All Kinds of Relishes for the Sick, 

OATMEAL MUSH. 

Prepared the same as wheat with the same distinction 
between the cracked oats and the rolled. It should not be 
stirred while cooking. 

GRAHAM MUSH. 

Prepared the same as above. Let it boil ten minutes, then 
beat thoroughly before taking up. Serve with fruit juice, oi 
cream and sugar. 

FARINA MUSH. 

Half a cup farina, one quart boiling water. Cook fifteen 
minutes in' double kettle without stirring; add half a cup of 
cream just before removing from fire. 

Serve with stewed fruit or fruit juice. 

WHEA TLET MUSH. 

Use water or equal parts milk and water. Salt to taste. 
Have it boiling not, then sprinkle in wheatlet enough to 
make a thin pudding. Boil hard for five minutes, then set it 
back ten minutes to cook slowly. 

WHEATLET PUDDING. 

Break up cooked wheatlet, add milk enough to make a 
thin pudding. Two eggs, currants, raisins to suit Brown 
in a moderate oven. 

WHEATLET PUDDING. 

In a deep pudding dish put layers of cold cooked wheatlet, 
(cracked wheat may be used,) and tart apples sliced thin. 
Sugar to taste. Raisins if desired. Fill the aish thus having 
wheatlet at the top. Bake until well done and browned. 

Rice and apples may be prepared the same way. 

RICE AND RAISINS. 

Boil together, one cup rice, half cup raisins, one cup sweet 
milk, in three cups boilmg water. Serve warm or cold with 
cream or fruit sauce. 

RICE SNOW BALLS. 

Boil two cups rice two hours in two quarts water and pne 
pint of milk. Mould in small cups. Serve with boiled 
custard or fruit sauce. 



How t0 Cook A It Kinds of Relishes for the Sick. 479 

RICE OMELET. 

Two cups boiled rice, one cup sweet milk, two eggs. Beat 
with the egg beater, and put into a hot buttered skulet. Cook 
slowly ten minutes, stirring frequently. 

HOMINY. 

One cup hominy, three and a half cups boiling water. Salt 
Cook four hours in a double kettle. 

RICE AND BERRY PUDDING, 

Work together two cups cold rice and two cups sweet 
milk. Then stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs with one- 
third cup of sugar, also the well whipped whites. Stir in 
two cups blueberries, currants, strawberries, seeded cher- 
ries, or chopped apples. Bake one hour in a pudding dish, 
set in a pan of boiling water. Serve warm or cold with or 
without cream. 

BOILED RICE, 

Two cups of rice to three pints boiling water. Salt to 
taste. Cook in double kettle four hours. The Japanese 
method of cooking rice is to cover a dish tightly and cook in 
a steamer with only a very little water in the rice. Each 
kernel turns out separate, and bursts open like a mealy 
potato. 

GRAHAM [MUFFINS. 

Stir together one pint new milk and one pint graham or 
"entire wheat" flour. Add one beaten egg and bake in hot 
muffin rings. Salt must not be used with any bread that is 
made light with egg. 

BEST GRAHAM BISCUIT. 
Make a thick Graham mush as above. Take it out on the 
moulding board, and knead into it more ^^^raham flour, roll 
about an inch thick and cut into biscuits, aud bake in a hot 
oven. 

LIGHT GRAHAM BISCUIT. 
Make the dough of Graham yeast, beat a trifle^ stiffer, 
itrfl and cut into biscuits. When light bake thirty minutes. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 
Three cups Graham flour, one cup cornmeal, one cup 
molasses, two cups sweet milk, one cup sour milk, one tea- 
spoon soda. Steam three hours, then bake until brovm. 



480 How to Cook All Kinds of Relishes for the Sick. 



OATMEAL SNAPS. 

Mix one cup sweet cream and three tablespoonfuls 

sugar; add fine oatmeal until stiff; knead slightly. Roll 

to the thickness of an eighth of an inch. Cut in shapes 
and bake crisp in a moderate oven. 

GRAHAM FRUIT CRACKERS. 

Make a stiff dough of equal parts graham and white 
flour, two-thirds cup sweet cream, three-fourths teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder (or one-fourth teaspoon soda to 
one-half of cream of tartar). Roll out thin; cover thick- 
ly with dried currants. Roll on another sheet of dough 
and pass the rolling pin over it. Cut in shapes. Prick 
deeply. Bake in a moderate oven. 

GRAHAM WAFERS. 

Mix graham flour with pure cold water. No salt. ^ Roll 
very thin, cut in squares and bake quickly. These will 
keep months in a dry place and are excellent for dyspep- 
tics. May be heated over before eating. 

GRAHAM GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Sour milk or buttermilk with just enough soda to make 
it bubble a little. One egg well beaten, and graham flour 
stirred in to make a batter. Excellent with maple syrup 
for constipation. 

MILK TOAST. 

Toast graham bread or gems split in two. Boil one 
pint of milk and half a cup cream. Thicken with one 
teaspoon corn-starch. Salt to taste. Pour over the toast 
and serve hot. 

OYSTER TOAST. 

Pour stewed oysters over graham gems or bread 
toasted. Excellent for breakfast. 

Codfish cooked in milk is also excellent on toast Also 
stewed tomatoes. 

EGGS ON TOAST. 

Soften brown bread toast with hot water. Serve on a 
platter with poached or scrambled eggs. Add salt, butter 
and a little cream. Set in the Qven to warm just before 
serving. 



How to Cook All Kinds of Relishes for the Sick. 481 



ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Stew tender asparagus thirty minutes. Add half a cup 
of cream, salt and butter to taste. Turn over graham 
toast. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Eggs furnish the most perfect food as well as milk. They 
should never be boiled hard. Place in boiling water and 
set back ten minutes, and they will be cooked to perfec- 
tion and easily digested. 

EGGS POACHED IN MILK. 

One cup milk, half a cup of water, when boiling break 
in six eggs. Cook slowly and serve on toast, well sea- 
soned. 

EGG OMELET. 

Beat whites of six eggs. Beat yolks with three table- 
spoonfuls of milk and one of flour, stir in the whites 
lightly. Cook in a hot buttered skillet. When the edge 
is cooked turn over carefully. In two minutes more 
double together on a hot platter. Jelly may be spread 
between if desired. Use no salt. 

GRAHAM GEM PUDDING. 

Break up six cold gems into small pieces, and pour over 
them a pint of hot water and half a cup of sugar. Stir in 
six large tart apples, cut in thin slices. 

Bake brown. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak a cup of tapioca in a quart of warm water three 
hours. Stir in lightly six tart apples sliced thin, add half 
a cup of sugar, and bake in a pudding dish. 

Serve with whipped cream, warm or cold. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

. Pare and slice five large oranges, removing seeds. Lay 
in a deep dish and sprinkle with sugar, let them stand two 
hours. Make a custard of one pint milk, yolks of three 
eggs and two tablespoons corn-starch; when cool pour 
over oranges. Beat the whites with two tablespoons poW' 
dered sugar, and place on top. 
Brown quickly in the oven. 

31 - 



1 

482 How to Cook All Kinds of Relishes for the Sick. 




BROILED OYSTERS. ' 

Put large oysters on a toaster. Hold over hot coals un- 
til heated through. Serve on toast moistened with cream. \ 
Very grateful in convalescence. 

PIE FOR DYSPEPTICS. 

Four tablespoons of oatmeal, one pint of water, let stand : 

till the meal is swelled. Then add two large apples, pared \ 

and sliced, a little salt, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful ' 

of flour, nutmeg if desired. Bake in a buttered dish, when \ 

well mixed together. Makes a most delicious pie, which ^ 

can be eaten with safety by the sick oi well. i 

APPLE SNOW. i 

Bake tart apples till soft and brown. Remove skins and ; 

cores. When cool beat them smooth and fine. Add half ; 
a cup of granulated sugar and the white of one egg. 

Beat till the mixture will hold on your spoon. Serve \ 

with whipped cream or soft custard. .; 

BAKED PIE PLANT. 

Cut pie plant into a pudding dish. Sprinkle over it a < 

cup of sugar, and cover with bread crumbs. Bake in a j 

quick oven. Pie plant may be steamed with sugar and j 

make a nice sauce. ; 

FRUIT ICE. ■ 

Apples, pears, pineapples or any fruit grated fine, sweet- i 
ened to taste and frozen, are delicious. Useful in fever or 

inflammation. ' 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. ^ 

Bake in a pudding dish alternate layers" of tomatoes 

(fresh or canned) and bread crumbs. Seasoned well. \ 

Have the top layer of tomatoes. J 



I 



Bills of Fare. 



483 



The following are taken by permission from " Prize Essay 
of American Health Association," by Mrs. Mary Hinman 
Abel, published by the American Public Health Associa- 
tion: 

BILLS OF FARE. 



For family of six; average, 78 cents per day, or 13 cents 
per person. 

I. SATURDAY, MAY. 

BREAKFAST. DINNER. 

Flour Pancakes with Sugar Syrup. Bread Soup. 

Coffee. Beef Neck Stew. 

Noodles. 

SUPPER. 

Browned Flour Soup with Fried Bread, 
Toast, and Cheese. 



SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER. 



BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal Mush with Milk and Sugar. 
Bread. 

Coffee. 

SUPPER. 

Bread Pancakes. 
Fried Bacon. 
Tea. 



DINNER. 

Pea Soup. 

Mutton Stew. 
Boiled Potatoes. 

Bread. 



BILLS OF FARE. 

For family of six; average, $1.38 per day, or 23 cents 
per person. 

I. SATURDAY, MAY. 

BREAKFAST. DINNER. 

Oranges. Beef Soup with Egg Sponge. 

Egg Omelet on Toast. Macaroni with Cheese. 

Boiled Rice with Milk and Sugar. Dandelion Greens. 

Coffee. Bread. 

SUPPER. 

Sour Cream Soup. 
Meat Croquettes (of soup meat). 
Graham Bread and Butter. 
Tea Cake. 



484 



Bills of Fare. 



2. TUESDAY, MAY. 
BREAKFAST. DINNER. 

Buttered Toast, Sorrel Soup. 

Coffee. Fried Catfish. 

Canned Fruit. Noodles. 

Bread. 
Swell Rice Podding. 

SUPPER. 

Fried Mush. 
Stewed Rhubarb. 
Fresh Rusks and Butter. 
Tea. 

3. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER. 
BREAKFAST. DINNER. 

Hominy Mush with Plum Soup, 

Sugar Syrup, Broiled Beefsteak. 

Stewed Pears. Boiled Green Corn. 

Toasted Crackers, Turnips and Potatoes. 

Coffee. Bread. 

Apple Pie. 

SUPPER. 

Irish Stew. 

Biscuit and Butter, Yeast Doughnuts. 

Tea. 

4. SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER. 
BREAKFAST. DINNER. 

Sour Milk Pancakes with Green Corn Soup. 

Sugar Syrup. Fricasseed Chicken. 

Sausage. Bread, Pbtatoes and Carrots 

Cucumbers, with Fried Onions. 

Coffee. Bread. 

SUPPER. 

Fried Farina Pudding. 
Water Toast, Radishes. 
Tea. 

5. SATURDAY, JANUARY. 
BREAKFAST, DINNER. 

Buckwheat Cakes Roast Fresh Pork, 
and Sugar Syrup, Apple Sauce. 

Bread and Butter. Mashed Potatoes. 

Coffee. Indian Pudding. Bread. 

SUPPER. 

Herring and Potato Salad. 
LentUs with Prunes. Bread and Butter. 
Tea 



Bi//s of Fare. 



485 



O. SUNDAY, JANUARY. 

BREAKFAST. DINNER. 

Buckwheat Cakes. Pea Soup. 

Sausage. Roast Beef. 

Coffee, Baked Potatoes. 

Apple Sauce. Canned Tomatoes. 

Barley Gruef. 

SUPPER. 

Potato Soup with Egg and Bread Balls. 
Brown Bread and Butter. 
Canned Fruit. Tea. 



COLD DINNERS. 

If a man is to eat a cold dinner for months or even for 
weeks, it is quite worth while to make that dinner as good 
as it can be, and to pack it nicely for carrying. Every one 
knows how it can take the edge off even a keen appetite to 
find his sandwich smeared with apple pie, or his cake soaked 
with vinegar from the pickles. That a box or basket of 
given dimensions should hold as much as possible, and keep 
the different kinds of food separate, it must be divided into 
compartments. 



COLD DINNERS FOR SUMMER. 

I. Bread and Butter. 2. Bread and Butter, 
Salad of Potatoes and Cold Veal. 

Cold Baked Fish. Hard Boiled Eggs. 

Cold Boiled Beef. Pickled Beets. 

Molasses Cookies. Cherry Pie. 

Apple Soup. 



COLD DINNERS FOR Vl^INTER. 

Bread. 4. Biscuit and Butter 

Cold Baked Beans. with Honey. 

Doughnuts. Cold Corn Beef anJ 

Apple Pie. Rye Bread. 

Cold Coffee. Dried Apple Tarta 

Cheese. 



486 



How to Make Your Own Candies. 




HOW TO MAKE YOUR OWN CANDIES. 

1. It is very easy for people to prepare and make theit 
own candies. They will know of what they are made, and 
how they are made. In reference to extracts, flavors, 
acids, etc., they can be procured of your own druggist 
whom you personally know, and consequently no delete- 
rious drugs will enter into the composition of the candies. 

2. It is very necessary that a few things should receive 
special attention in making candy. 

3. Sugar boiled down to a sufficient thickness for candy 
will remain perfectly clear if not stirred. If it is in any 
way disturbed by dropping in nuts or other articles, it is 
liable to go back to sugar. 

4. Vinegar or other acids can be added to the sugar, 
and this will keep it perfectly clear, no matter how much 
it is stirred or disturbed. Never disturb candy that is 
intended to be perfectly pure and clear. 

5. Boil the sugar in a thick pan, or in a granite or 
porcelain kettle. 

WHY HOME-MADE CANDY IS BEST. 

The chief constituents of candy, as will have been ob- 
served, are butter and sugar. The rest are merely inci- 
dents. This being so, no home should ever be without 
its candy. And what is there that children love better 
than to see their mother engaged in making candy? How 



How to Make Your Own Candies. 



487 



they hover around her and watch her every movement! 
How their Httle mouths water in blissful anticipation! I do 
not know whether the idea that home-made bread is better 
than baker's bread can be applied to candy. There is 
this to be said about it, however, that one knows just ex- 
actly what the candy is when made at home, which is 
more than can be said of sweets retailed by many of the 
small-fry confectioners. It is better and safer to make 
you own candy than to buy cheap mixtures. It is the 
same with confectionery as with clothes. There are dif- 
ferent grades, and the good grades represent a certain 
amount of money laid out in their manufacture. 

Home-made candy is cheaper, in that the cost of labor 
is saved. But after all, little or no candy is rnade in the 
home for the purpose of economy, or of avoiding poor 
kinds of confectionery. When made at all, it is rnade 
for pleasure and amusement. On cold winter evenings 
a festive "tafTy-puU" infuses warmth and gladness into the 
little ones. Even the older people derive much merriment 
and amusement from it. In this connection I might men- 
tion that butter is better to use for covering the hands 
than flour. The latter makes no end of bother for the 
housemaid after the fun is all over. 

HOME-MADE HOREHOUND CANDY. 

At the season of coughs and colds, how many women 
know that a good horehound candy, soothing to tired or 
inflamed throats, can easily be made at home? Boil two 
ounces of dried horehound, which can be procured at a 
druggist's, in a pint and a half of water until its flavor 
is extracted; that will be in about half an hour. Strain 
through muslin until perfectly clear. Add to this extract 
or tea three pounds and a half of brown sugar, and boil 
over a quick fire until the syrup will harden when a Httle 
of it is dropped in cold water. Pour into a buttered tin, 
and when the candy is partially cooled mark into squares. 
This is a very good rule to add to the list of candies that 
the children may make for a frolic. 

A DELICIOUS CHOCOLATE CANDY. 

A very delicious chocolate candy can be made that shows 
bewitchingly through the cut glass of a French bonbon 
dish, and is far superior in taste to many makes of choco- 
late,' and much less expensive. Take one cup of grated 
chocolate, three cups of granulated sugar, a piece of but- 



488 



HoTV to Make Your Ow7i Candies. 



ter the size of a walnut, a cup of hot water, a pinch of salt, 
and a teaspoonful of vanilla. Boil down to the consistency 
of candy. Stir constantly, and allow it to boil for ten min- 
utes only. Try it in a cup of cold water, and so soon as it 
is of the consistency of thickened molasses pour into but- 
tered tins. Take a silver knife and stir back and forth 
until it sugars. When this takes place, mark of¥ into little 
squares and put away to cool. 

CHOCOLATE VANILLA CREAMS. 

Take two cups of pulverized sugar and a half cup of 
cream. Boil for five minutes, and divide of? into balls 
while hot. Take as much grated chocolate as is necessary 
and steam over a tea kettle. When soft, cover the balls 
and set them away to harden. If you wish to have a 
vanilla flavor, add the extract before putting on stove. 

COCOANUT CREAM CANDY. 

Take one and one-half pounds of granulated sugar, and 
the milk from a cocoanut. Mix together, and heat slowly 
until sugar is melted; then boil for five minutes. When 
boiled, add one cocoanut, finely grated, and boil for ten 
minutes longer, stirring constantly to keep it from burn- 
ing. When done, pour on buttered plates and cut into 
squares. This will take about two days to harden. 

SOME TOOTHSOME QINOER CANDY. 

Take one cup of water to one and one-half cups of stigar, 
and boil until, on applying your finger to the syrup, taking 
a little on the tip and quickly dipping it into water, it will 
roll up into a small ball. Flavor with essence of ginger 
or powdered ginger. Rub some of the sugar against the 
sides of the pan with a wooden spoon until it turns white, 
then pour into buttered tins and put away in a cool place. 
Lemon, peppermint, or almond candy is made in the 
same way. 

NEW ORLEANS MOLASSES CANDY. 

Take one cap of New Orleans molasses, one cup of 
sugar, a piece of butter the size of an egg (sweet, not salt), 
and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil these together, but 
do not stir until the mass hardens when dropped into cold 
water. When done, stir in a teaspoonful of soda, and 
beat well. Pour into -battered pans, and when cool ctst 



How to Make Your Own Candies. 



480 



into sticks. If flavoring is desired, it should be added 
just before pouring out to cool. 

HONEY CANDY. 

Take one pint of white sugar, with water enough to dis- 
solve it, and four tablespoonfuls of honey. Boil until it 
becomes brittle on being dropped into cold water. Pour 
off into buttered pans to cool. 

CEEAM CANDY. 

Take one pound of white sugar, one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, one teaspoonful of lemon extract, and one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar. Add a little water to moisten 
the sugar, then boil until brittle. The extract should be 
added just before turning the mass quickly out on buttered 
plates. When cool, cut in squares. 

FOR A GOOD TAFFY PULL. 

Some excellent taffy may be made by taking one quart 
of molasses, and half a pound of butter, and boiling the 
two until the mass thickens. This will take about half an 
hour. Then stir with a spoon until, on taking out a little 
taffy, it becomes hard on immersion in cold water. Take 
half a teacup of vinegar, pour into the mass, and stir for 
half a minute. Then pour the taffy into buttered tins, or 
dishes, and set aside to cool. 

TO MAKE BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Take three pounds of sugar, a quarter pound of butter, 
half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and add sufficient 
water only to dissolve the sugar. Boil without stirring 
until it will easily break when dropped into cold water 
Then pour into a well-buttered dripping-pan, and, when 
almost cold, cut into small squares. If desired, a da«h 
of lemon may be added into the mixture before putting on 
to boil. Eight drops will be sufficient. 

HICKORY NUT CANDY. 

Take one cup of hickorynut meats, two cups of sug^, 
half a cup of water. Boil the sugar and water together 
without stirring, until thick enough to spin to a thread. 
Flavor, if desired; then sot in cold water. Stir quickly 
until white, then throw in the nuts. Pour into fiat tins, 
and cut into squares. 
|2 



490 



How to Make Your Own Candies. 



MAPLE SUGAR CANDY. 

Boil maple sugar until it becomes sufficiently thick. 
Then add a teacupful of vinegar for every two quarts of 
syrup; smaller amounts proportionately. When the candy 
has reached a sufficient consistency, pour out. Any kind 
of nuts may be dropped into it, or different flavors may be 
used, to make almost any kind of candy preparation. 

FIG CANDY. 

I pound of sugar, 

I pint of water. 
Set over a slow fire. When done add a few drops of 
vinegar and a lump of butter, and pour into pans in which 
split figs are laid. 

RAISIN CANDY. 

Can be made in the same manner, substituting stoned 
raisins for the figs. Common molasses candy is very nice 
with all kinds of nuts added. 

SCOTCH BUTTER CANDY. 

I pound of sugar, 
I pint of water. 
Dissolve and boil. When done add one tablespoonful of 
butter, and enough lemon juice and oil of lemon to flavor. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two and a half cups of molasses, one tablespoonful of 
sugar; stir occasionally while boiling; before taking from 
the fire add butter half the size of an egg, and one-third 
teaspoonful of soda. Pour into buttered tins, and when 
cool pull it until well whitened. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two and a half cups of sugar, one cup of molasses, one 
and a half cups of water; after it begins to boil add one- 
fourth teaspoonful cream tartar; cook in the usual way, 
but do not stir; before taking from the fire add 
butter, half the size of an egg. Do not butter your hands 
while puUine. 

CARAMELS. 

One cup of molasses, two of sugar; boil ten minutes. Add 
one large tablespoonful of flour, butter the size of an egg, 
half-pound chocolate; boil twenty minutes. 



BOOK V. 




THE OLD STYLE OF WASHING. 



IN THE LAUNDRY. • 

HOUSE INSECTS. | 

YARD AND GARDEN. \ 

PRACTICAL RULES FOR KEEPING '' 

POULTRY. j 

491 'i 

'] 
\ 
I 



492 



How to Make Soap. 



HOW TO MAKE HARD SOAP FROM SOFT. 

7 pounds of good soft soap, 

4 pounds of sal-soda. 
2 ounces borax, 

1 ounce hartshorn, 
Yi pound resin. 

Dissolve in twenty-two quarts of water and boil about 
twenty minutes. 

HOW TO MAKE THE BEST SOAP FOR WASHING 
FINE LINEN. 

To make the best washing soap, and one that is suitable 
for either laundry or toilet purposes, w'll not soil the finest 
fabric, or injure the most delicate complexion, use the 
following: 

Take lo pounds white bar soap, 

2 gallons of soft water, 

5 pounds sal-soda (common washing soda). 
Dissolve four ounces of borax and one ounce of salts of 

tar-tar in a little water; cut the soap into slices, and boil until 
dissolved; then add the soda and salts of tartar, and mix 
thoroughly; pour into a box or mold, or cut into bars. 
This makes twenty-five pounds of soap which has no 
eq-ual. 

Directions: Put the clothes to soak in warm water; 
soap each in proportion to the amount of dirt it contains 
— only the dirtiest will need rubbing. Rinse thoroughly, 
and your clothes will look better and wear longer than 
washed in any other way. Try it once, and you will never 
use any other soap. 

HOW TO POLISH OR ENAMEL SHIRT BOSOlfeS. 



To Polish or Enamel Sliirt Fronts. 

1 ounce of white wax, 

2 ounces of spermaceti. 

Melt together. Heat gently and turn into a very shallow 
pan: when cold cut or break into pieces. When making 
boiled starch the usual way, enough for a dozen bosoms, 
add to it a piece of the polish the size of a hazel nut. 



Washing of Flannels. 



408 



THE WASHING OF FLANNELS. 

There are few things more annoying to even phenom- 
enally patient mortals than the discovery that their fl'annels 
are growing beautifully less with each successive visit to 
the laundry. This tendency to shrinkage on the part of 
flannels has been a boon to the funny men on the comic 
papers, but to others a source of woe. 

Certain rules should always be observed in the washing 
of flannels, if you would have them keep their original color, 
size, and softness: 

In the first place, shake the dust thoroughly from each 
article before washing^ — and you will be amazed, by the 
way, at the capabilities of one small garment in the 
way ot holding extraneous matter. Then make a strong 
soap solution by boiling half a cake of any pure, reliabl|e 
soap in water enough to dissolve it. Add this, with one 
tablespoonful of borax or four tablespoonfuls of liquid am- 
monia, to half a tub of water just hot enough to bear the 
hand in it comfortably. Put the white and gray flannels 
in and cover, as the retained steam aids in softening and 
removing grease. After a half hour's soaking wash otrt, 
drawing the fabric back and forth through the hands, but 
on no account putting soap on the garment or rubbing 
it on the board. If very much soiled, wash in two suds, 
being extremely careful that the temperature of the water 
remains the same. If any spots are particularly diffieult 
about coming out, they can be laid on the board and 
rubbed with a soft brush. Then rinse through two 
waters, still of the same temperature, being careful that" all 
tlie suds are out. In washing baby flannels add a very 
little bluing to the last rinsing-water. Shake, stretch out, 
pass carefully through the wringer without twisting, and 
hang lengthwise to dry in warm, sunshiny air, or else in 
the laundry. Never hang them in cold or frosty air, a-s 
that would surely shrink them. When nearly dry, they 
can be pressed gently with a moderately warm iron; but 
do not shove the iron over them, nor use a very h&t iron, 
as you do not wish to generate steam. 

All kinds of woolens can be washed in the same way, 
only in worsted goods do not wring, but let them hang 
and drain. While still a little damp bring in and press 
smoothly with an iron as hot as you can use wifeheut 
scorching the goods. „ . -i r 

To wash flannels that have become yellow, boil f®ur 
tablespoonfuls of flour in four quarts ©f water, stirring 



494 



In the Laundry, 



thoroughly. Pour half the liquid while still warm over the 
flannels, letting them stand half an hour covered. Rub the. 
flannel with the hands, but use no soap. Rinse the flan- 
nel in several clear waters of the same temperature. Then 
heat the remainder of the liquid, pour over the flannel 
again, and proceed as before, rinsing thoroughly; then 
hang out to drain and dry. 

HOW TABLE LINEN SHOULD BE LAUNDERED. 

T-he careful housekeeper never entirely intrusts her 
table linen to her help at home nor to her laundress 
abroad; she always prefers to superintend its washing and 
ironing, and has it done under her personal direction, fol 
the reason that no matter how handsome it may look 
when new, it immediately loses its beauty if poorly laun- 
dered. 

All stains should be removed by first filtering cold 
water slowly through tea and coffee stains 

Wine stains may be removea Dy covering the stain 
while fresh with salt and then filtering the water through 
it. 

L-inen should be very slightly starched, or, better still, 
ironed while quite damp until perfectly dry, this will give 
sufficient stiffness, and is the method employed by the 
best French and Swiss laundresses. 

In folding, fold the napkins square, and the tablecloths 
first lengthwise. 

If possible do not have small folds, one line each way 
from the center is enough. 

Have perfectly dry and aired before putting away. 

Embroidered doilies, centerpieces, and carving cloths 
have become fashionable pieces of fancy-work, and many 
of them are so handsome that they should receive the 
care necessary to preserve their beauty. 

If the cloth has been stained with fruit or coffee, the 
stained portion should be placed over a basin, and boiling 
water poured over it, allowing the water to run into the 
basin. Or, if a little salt and a few drops of lemon juice 
are put on it while still fresh, and the linen placed in the 
sunshine for an hour or two, all traces of the stain will 
usually disappear. 

Table-linen should not be used long enough to become 
badly soiled, as the hard rubbing necessary to get it clean 
is destructive to its beauty. Make a lather of soft water 
2xA ivory soap, and wash it between the hands — never 



In the Launury. 



495 



on the wash-board. Rinse through two waters, with a 
Uttle bluing in the second. If any starch is thought nec- 
essary, make it very thin. Hang linen where the wind 
will not whip it out, and iron while it is quite damp. The 
embroidered parts should be ironed on the wrong side to 
make the pattern show to the best advantage. Be sure 
it is thoroughly dry before putting in the linen closet, or 
it will mildew. . 

Silk Handkerchiefs and ribbons that are washed m 
salt and water and ironed wet give better results than the 
ordinary method. 

Another good way of washing silk handkerchiefs so as 
to preserve the fine colors in them is as follows: Pour a 
small quantity of boiling water on a bag of bran, leave 
the water until cool, then remove the bag, and wash the 
handkerchiefs in the lather. Wring out quickly, fold in 
a cloth to dry, and iron as soon as possible. 

How to Wash Silk Socks .— Dissolve a moderate 
amount of castile soap in luke-warm water. Squeeze and 
press the water through the articles. Rub the deepest 
stains very lightly. Rinse thoroughly in clear cold water. 
Extract the water by rolling and twisting in a coarse 
heavy towel. Stretch into good shape, and dry without 
any exposure to the sun whatsoever. To add luster, take 
a soft, dry piece of flannel and rub in one direction when 
the article is nearly dry. Never use a hot iron unless the 
article is folded inside a thick cloth. 

Lace-woven Stockings in white and delicate tints should 
be washed with benzine or naphtha instead of the ordinary 
washing water. Turn them wrong side out, shakmg out 
all the dust, then lay them flat in a dish, and cover with 
naphtha. Stir violently for a minute or two, then turn and 
wash the other side in clean naphtha. Hang out in the air 
until all the odor of the cleansing fluid has disappeared. 

Turpentine.— A little turpentine mixed with starch will 
give gloss to collars and cuffs. 

A spoonful of it to a pail of warm water cleans pamt 
excellently, and a little in the boiler on washing-day 
whitens the clothes. 

Grease Spots.— Cold rain water an* soap will remove 
machine grease from washable fabrics. 

Starch.— Boiling starch is much improved by the addi- 
tion of sperm or salt, or both, or a little gum arabic dis- 
solved. , , , . Ml L 

Cotton Fabrics.— The colors of cotton fabrics will be- 
come "set" if salt and water is employed— three gills of 



496 



In the Laundry. 



salt to four quarts of water. The calico is dropped into the 
water while hot, and there remains until it is cold. 

Flannels. — To shrink baby flannels or white flannels of 
any sort, indeed, they should be put into an earthen basin 
and have boiling water poured over them; let them lie 
until the water is quite cold; in drying them don't wring, 
but shake, stretch and fold smoothly to keep the fabric 
even and then hang out. Bring them in while still damp, 
roll smoothly and in about half an hour iron with nearly 
a cold iron. 

To Whiten Clothes.— To improve the color of white 
cloths and clothing that have been washed, a spoonful of 
borax dissolved in a little hot water should be added to 
the last water in which they are rinsed. It will whiten 
the clothes very much. 

Shrinking of Flannels.— Many housekeepers, otherwise 
experienced and careful, have very vague ideas as to what 
is going on in the laundry, or as to the necessity of 
varying processes for the cleansing of different fabrics. 

If you should examine the fiber of wool through a micro- 
scope, you would discover a series of tiny irregular sheaths 
with serrated edges, all running in the same direction. 
With the application of heat these miscroscopic sheaths 
expand and reach over one another; but with an exposure 
to a lower change of temperature they hurriedly contract, 
catching and knotting and pulling each other, producing 
the effect known as "fulling." Twisting, wringing, or 
rubbing flannels vigorously also tends to entangle the 
little scales, and to give to the article an unpleasant di- 
▼ersified surface. 

INEXPENSIVE AND DELIGHTFUL. 

"My! what a flowery whiff. That handkerchief must 
have been literally steeped in violets!" exclaimed one 
girl to another who had just shaken from its folds a fra- 
grant square of linen. 

"Not steeped in violets, my dear," was the answer, "but 
boiled in orris water. The effect is the same, so where's 
the odds? On washdays, I supply the laundress with a 
good-sized piece of orris root, and she throws it into the 
water where my handkerchiefs are boiling. When they 
come up off of the ironing board they are as redolent of 
orris as can be. Then I slip them between the folds of a 
sachet filled with violet powder, and they never lose their 
fragrance. Violet and orris scent together, I've d»- 
corered, can make a real violet's odor faint with envy." 



How to Destroy All Kinds of House Insects. 497 



HOW TO DESTROY ALL KINDS OF HOUSE INSECTS. 

1. Insects do not grow by imperceptible increase in 
size as a bird or a cat. All insects pass through several 
changes from the egg to the perfect state. The horrid 
caterpillar that crawls in our path today will soon be seen 
flitting among the flowers in the form of a beautiful but- 
terfly. 

2. To destroy house pests successfully, the history of 
the insect, from the egg to the perfect state, must be well 
known. The successful housekeeper must always be a 
close observer and a careful student in order to keep her 
house free from noxious insects. 



1. There are no human fleas in North America. The dog 
and the cat flea are the only species that annoy us. 

2. The eggs of the flea are very small, white and oblong, 
and are laid on the dog or cat, and, being sticky, adhere 
to the hair until they are ready to hatch, when they 
fall to the ground. They hatch in about a week, 
and in less than two weeks attain their growth. 
They then pass through a pupal stage, and in 





HOW TO ATOID FLEAS. 



498 How to Destroy all Kinds of House Insects. 



two weeks more the perfect flea appears. They flourlsb best 
IB sandy soil. 

3. Remedt. Put olive oil on the dog or cat or both, as the 
case may be, and rub it into the hair thoroughly and after a 
few hours wash out with warm water and soap. 

4. Dalmation Insect Powder rubbed into the hair and 
sprinkled around the dog's kennel or the cat's sleeping place 
Is also a good remedy. 



The Carpet Bug (Anthienus Scrophulanse) or Buffalo Bug, 
it is sometimes called was first noticed in the city of Buffalo, 
New York. 

The grub which does the damage is about one-fourth of an 
inch in length. It is covered with hair as shown in the above 
illustration a, b. It spins no cocoon like the caterpillar, but 
when full grown the skin splits on the back and shows the 
insect. A few weeks later the skin bursts again, and the per- 
fect little bug, as shown in a, appears. It is marked with red, 
black and white spots and is less than one-eighth of an inch 
in length. 

Remedy. When once in a carpet it is a very difiBcult insect 
to destroy. In some houses carpets cannot be used, as they are 
eaten as fast as they can be put down. Tallowed paper placed 
around the edges of the carpet is a very good preventive. 




How to Exterminate the Carpet Bug. 



HoTv to Dettroy all Kinds of House Insects. 499 

When a carpet is cut as if with scissors following the seams 
in the floor, the simplest and safest remedy is to pour benzine 
In very small quantities along the seams ; also running a hot 
flat-iron over along the seams of the carpet is very destructive 
to both the insect and the eggs. Sprinkling the paper with 
benzine before the carpet is tackedj down is an excellent pre* 
caution. Pour half a pint of turpentine into your hot-water 
pail, and scrub the boards with your long-handled brush, 
and add another half-pint when you mop it all up. Then 
no buffalo moths will attack the carpets you have prepared 
floors for. 

How to Destroy Clothes Moths. 

One of the greatest enemies of the housewife is the clothes 
moth. It is very small and makes its way through the 
smallest crevices. The female moth finds its way in early sum- 
mer among the clothes and furs, suitable for food for its young, 
and there deposits about fifty or more eggs. In about a week 
the eggs hatch and the young worms begin to eat upon the cloth 
upon which the eggs were laid. It spins a sort of case which it 
lengthens and enlarges. Not content with eating and making 
a house for itself upon the cloth upon which it lives, it cuts its 
way in various directions through the cloth and drags its case 
after it. As the weather gets warmer the little worm closes its 
case at the ends and in three weeks the perfect moth will 
make its appearance. 

Remedy. Beat the garments well early in the spring and 
occasionally during the summer. It is better to keep the 
articles in a large paper bag. Occasional airing is good. 

For clothes packed in boxes or trunks, put a little oil of 
cedar on a piece of paper and roll up and wrap with other 
paper to avoid soiling the garments, and put several of these 
rolls into each box or trunk. Carbolic acid, turpentine or ben- 
zine is equally good, used in the same manner. 

Btack pepper, a piece of camphor gum, or a handful of snuff 
"Tfrapped up with the clothes is excellent. 

Caution. Camphor should never be used in keeping seal skin, 
fts it takes the color out of the fur. 

A close closet lined with tar paper is the best for furs. 
It is also excellent for clothes. 



500 



Protection Against Moths. 



THE COMMON MOTH. 

In May the clothes-moth begins to fly about our rooms. 
It is a small, light, buff-colored "miller," dainty and beauti- 
ful on close inspection. Its highest mission seems to be 
to teach us to set our affections only upon incorruptible 
treasures which "moth and rust cannot destroy." But it 
is necessary to keep a sharp lookout for the safety of our 
furs and flannels, and we must wage war upon it. In 
the first place, we must carefully put away everything we 
can, upon which it will lay its eggs. If we pack away our 
furs and flannels early in May, before the moth has begun 
to lay its eggs, and leave them in boxes and bags so tight 
that the flying moth cannot squeeze in, no further pre- 
caution is necessary. Clean paper bags are recommended 
for this purpose — those used for flour and meal bags. 
They should be without holes or opening anywhere. These 
bags, when filled and closed firmly, may be put away 
on closet shelves or in loose boxes, without danger to their 
contents, so far as moths are concerned, without need of 
camphor or other strong odors to drive the moths away. 
Furs are usually sold in boxes in which they may be kept. 
Beat them well when you finally put them away for the 
season. If you delay putting them away until June, ex- 
amine the furs well, and shake and beat them thoroughly, 
in order that any moth eggs that may possibly have been 
laid in them may be thoroughly removed or killed. Furs 
sealed up early in May need no camphor or tobacco or 
other preventive. Muff and tippet boxes should be tied 
up securely in bags, or made safe by mending holes and 
pasting a strip of paper around the juncture of the cover 
with the box below, so as to close all openings. Woolen 
garments must not hang in closets through the summer, 
in parts of the country where moths abound. They should 
be packed away in tight trunks or boxes, or sealed up in 
bags. Woolen blankets must be well shaken and carefully 
put away, unless they are in daily use. Early in June 
the larvae of the moth begin their ravages, and then, un- 
less you dwell in places where moths are not found, look 
sharp, or you will find some precious thing, that you 
have forgotten — some good coat unused for a few weeks, 
or the woolen cover of a neglected piano — already riddled 
by the voracious moths. It is their nature to eat until 
they have grown strong enough to retire from the catiag 
business, and go into the chrysalis condition. 



Hoiv to Keep Furs from Moth, 



501 




HOW TO KEEP FURS FROM MOTH. 

Moths will avoid light and sunshine. Before packing 
away furs, sun them several hours in the open air, then 
tie them tightly in a linen, cotton or paper bag, which is 
whole. A little snuff placed in the bottom is a good 
thing. 

If moth are already at work, fumigate with sulphur 
placed on live coals. Close the room in which the furs 
are placed, and be careful not to inhale the fumes. Fumi- 
gating rooms after scarlet fever or other contagious dis- 
eases is said to destroy all the disease germs. 

Moth Preventive.— In this age of fearful moth-preven- 
tive smells, it is worth while to know that moths will 
never go where there are lavender bags. Even where 
they have begun their ravages in furs or feathers, a lavish 
sprinkling of the articles with good lavender water will 
prevent further damage. No one can ask for a purer or 
pleasanter odor about garments. A liberal distribution 
of lavender sachets in closets, drawers and trunks will 
give you the satisfaction of making sweeter your belong- 
ings with the we:.pon which drives away their depreda- 
tors. Put a lavender sachet in your piano if you fqar 
moths will ravage the felt. 

Mother Infallible Remedy is compounded of the foV 



502 How to Destroy All Kinds of House Insects. 



lowing sweet-smelling things: Lavender, thyme, rese, 
cedar shavings, powdered sassafras, cassia, and lignea in 
about equal quantities, with a few drops of attar of roses 
thrown upon the whole. 

Tansy Leayes, spread freely among woolens and furs, 
are a protection against moths. 

Turpentine is an excellent preventive against moths, 
although naphtha is preferable, the odor leaving much 
sooner; it will drive ants and cockroaches away, if sprin- 
kled about the shelves an^ cupboards. 

Whole Cloves are now used to exterminate moths, and 
some say they are much better than tobacco, camphor, 
or cedar shavings. 

The Best Preventive of moths is care. Cedar chests, 
camphor, and pepper avail nothing if a garment is laid 
away with the egg of the moth in it. If it is, in season, 
shut up in paper or cloth so that no millers can possibly 
leach it, there will be no need of pungent odors. Benzine 
is the best remedy if the moths have stolen a march and 
are ravaging carpets or furniture. Pour it freely upon any 
carpet or upholstered furniture and it will not stain. 

For Buffalo Moths, the most destructive of all house- 
hold foes, try equal quantities of borax, camphor, and 
saltpetre, mixed. Wash the floor with a strong solution 
of it, and scatter it under the edge of the carpet and in 
your closets and drawers. The beetle that lays the eggs 
comes early in February and then the fight must begin. 
Naphtha is considered an efficient remedy, but it must be 
repeatedly used in order to destroy each successive gener- 
ation. 

HOW TO GET KID AND KEEP RID OF BEDBUGS. 

1. The eggs of the bedbug are white in color and oval 
in shape. The young resemble the parents, and it takes 
about eleven weeks to get its full growth. Like reptiles, 
they can live many years without food. Mr. Goeze, of 
Germany, has kept them six years in a bottle without a 
particle of nourishment of any kind. 

2. Keeping the bedding and bedstead perfectly clean is 
the best preventive. 

3. Remedy. — Pour hot water into the crevices and then 
apply benzine to the different parts of the bedstead. 

4. Unpurified petroleum mixed with a little water is 
also a sure remedy. Corrosive sublimate is a very good, 
but a very poisonous cure. 



How to Destroy all Kinds of House Insects* 503 




How to Exterminate Spiders. 



Take a small common kerosene lamp and light it, and late in 
the afternoon or early in the evening look over the corners and 
places where spiders are commonly found, and when one is seen 
bold the lamp chimney directly beneath it, and it will fall at 
once into the chimney and be instantly destroyed. It is not diffi- 
cult in this way to destroy all the spiders in the house in a few 
evenings. It avoids killing them by sweeping them down, and 
staining the walls or carpet. Early in the evening is the best 
time. 

How to Preserve Boolcs from Book IMoths. 

The little Bristle Tail or Silver Fish has a little long, slendei 
body covered with a delicate silver scale ; it has no wings an4 
passes through no changes. It feeds on the paste of the binding 
of books, devours leaves, eats off the labels in Museums and 
Is generally destructive to both books and papers. 

Books are also eaten by the larva of a little bug that pro- 
duces a ticking sound like a watch — It is called the Death 
Watch," as it is usually heard in the night ticking like a watch. 

Remedt. a little rag saturated with benzine or carbolic 
acid placed along the back of the shelves will clear the library 
of all insects. Insect Powder sprinkled over the books will 
destroy the little " Silver Fish" insect instantly. 

Mixture for Destroying Flies. 

I pint infusion of quassia, 
4 ounces brown sugar, 
3 ounces ground pepper. 

To be well mixed together, and put in small, shallow dishw 

when required. 



504 How to Destroy All Kinds of House Insects. 



HOW TO KEEP OUT MOSQUITOES. 

If a bottle of the oil of pennyroyal is left uncorked in a 
room at night, not a mosquito, cr any other blood-sucker, 
will be found there in the morning. 

A DOMESTIC REMEDY FOR DESTROYING FLIES. 

Yz tablespoonful black pepper, in powder, 

I teaspoonful brown sugar, 

I tablespoonful cream. 
Mix them well together, and place them in the room on 
a plate, where the flies are troublesome, and they will 
soon disappear. 




TO BANISH THE FLIES. 



The following is vouched for: Take one ounce of cam- 
phor gum, one ounce of corrosive sublimate, one pint of 
oil of turpentine; grind the sublimate thoroughly, put 
into a strong bottle and add the camphor gum. Pour on 
the turpentine and shake occasionally. It should be fit 
for use in 36 hours. Heat a piece of iron and drop a few 
drops on it in the stable and all flies will leave. Flies 
may be driven out of the house by dropping a few drops 
on a hot stovelid. Practiced every other day will, it is 
said, soon drive out all flies. 

A CURE FOR BEE AND WASP STINGS, SPIDER 
BITES, ETC. 

Apply ammonia or common soda and water. If there is 
much inflammation and redness, apply a solution of borax 
and warm water. Apply with a rag saturated with the 
solution. 



How to Destroy All Kinds of House Insects. 505 




A BOX OF SPONGES. 



A J<EW WAY or TRAPPING ANTS. 

1. Ants are very difficult pests to expel from the house. 
There have been many recipes and experiments tried, but 
without any satisfactory results. 

2. The ants that infest our houses live only in rotten 
wood, either in the decayed sills of the house or in rotten 
timbers and old fences near by. It is best to remove all 
such hiding places if possible. 

3. Remedy.— Ants are very fond of sugar, and any- 
thing containing it will attract them. Sweeten a pan of 
water to a thin syrup, and then dip a large sponge mto it, 
and wring it out. Place the sponge where the ants can 
get at it; it will soon be filled through and through with 
ants, then take it up carefully and plunge it into boiling 
water, and again set it by saturating it with the thin syrup. 
A few days' trial will, for a long time, exterminate the 
annoying pests. 

4. A trap more simple but not so effectual is a plate 
covered with a thin layer of lard and placed where the 
ants can easily get at it. This trap is more to destroy the 
Iktle yellow ant than the larger species. 

HOW TO DESTROY ANTS. 

Boiling water, kerosene, or a solution of fresh insect 
powder in water, poured into the hill, will destroy the in- 
habitants at once. Where the nests are outside of the 
house this is a sure remedy. 



§06 How to Destroy All Kmds of House Insects. 



OTHER REMEDIES. 

1. Cayenne pepper sprinkled in cupboards and store- 
rooms will drive away ants and cockroaches. The pepper 
ought to be fresh and strong and very fine. 

2. Black ants can be put to rout by washing shelves or 
floors whereon they congregate with hot water in which 
some ammonia has been dissolved. 

3. Take five cents' worth of tartar emetic, mix it with 
an equal amount, in bulk, of soft or granulated sugar, put 
the mixture into dishes, keep it moist (quite moist), and 
set the dishes, one on each shelf where the ants appear, 
they will promptly take their departure. I do not know 
what becomes of them, but they are gone. I never find 
dead ones, either in the dishes or on the shelves. When 
not needed the dishes can dry out and be put away to be 
wet again for the next time. 

4. You will find a most effectual remedy for the ant 
by mixing honey and insect powder and setting in shal- 
low pan so that easy access may be had. The ants will 
come and partake in great numbers, never to return. 

5. This is an effectual remedy for ants: In the center of 
a shallow dish put a very little Paris green, and on it a 
spoonful of honey — then pour in half a cupful of water. 
Set in their trail, and in a few days they will be gone. 
It is possible they will come again in a few weeks, but 
the second dose is effectual. 

6. A sure way to keep the little common black ants 
out of food is to set the food on a board as large as de- 
sired, which is isolated by supporting the four corners in 
little tins of common insect powder. I drive a nail in each 
corner, letting it project say an inch, so as to form four 
legs, which I surround with insect powder either on the 
shelf itself or in little tin can covers which prevent the 
powder from getting brushed away. I never knew this 
plan to fail. A table or a cupboard may have its legs 
stand in dishes of powder. Borax, salt, kerosene, etc., are 
of no account in most cases. The kerosene soon evaporates 
and they will crawl right over the others. Pepper and 
camphor would be objectionable to have about. It's well 
enough to shoot powders into places like cracks where 
they come in, if you can find them and are willing to have 
the untidiness of it. 



How to Get Rid of Rats. 507 




HOW TO GET RID OF RATS. 



J. Common steel traps set in their holes or runways 
covered up with cha£f or crushed dried leaves, will soon 
exterminate rats, or drive them from the premises. 

2. To place the steel traps in pans of wheat-bran is a good 
device. After catching two or three rats in the same pan, 
leave out the trap a few nights, and then replace it. 

3. Raw meat sprinkled with strychnine nailed to a small 
board, and placed as above, generally answers the purpose, 
unless the rats are very cunning, having been trapped and 
poisoned considerably. 

HOW TO POISON RATS. 
1 qt. warm water. 2 lbs. lard. 1 oz. phosphorus. 
Mix and thicken with flour; to be spread on bread and 
covered with sugar. 

N. B. Most of these patent preparations, such as "Rough 
on Rats," etc., for the extermination of rats and mice, are of 
little benefit. If they could be used when first prepared, 
they would be much more effective ; but they are often kept 
in stores for 7nonths and years, and thereby lose all their 
strength. 



508 How to Get Rid of Rats and Mice. 



A Sure Remedy. — It does not pay to try to raise rats 
and chicks in the same place; yet it is nearly impossible 
to keep the former down when farm buildings offer con- 
venient hiding places. Various plans have been devised 
for dealing with this pest, with only partial success. A 
good method to get rid of a few rats is to slit a piece of 
fresh meat and fill it with powdered glass. Rats are very 
fond of wheat, and we have been quite successful with 
this method: Take 25 cents' worth of strychnine and dilute 
it with a cup of water (a quart bottle is a good article to 
use for this purpose). After the poison is dissolved add 
a few handfuls of wheat; set in a warm place, and when 
the wheat is swelled as much as possible scatter it in and 
around the rat-holes, or where the rats go. It is sure death 
to rats, cats, chicks or man. Be careful how you use it. 




A SURE CURE FOR THE EXTERMINATION OF MICE. 

1. The best and most careful trapper of mice will 
find great difficulty in capturing the shrewder and older 
ones. They simply will not go into a trap. The best 
method for capturing those is illustrated in the above cut. 
Take a small box and fill it with brick or stones, and 
place under it a figure 4, baited with cheese, meat, or 
other attractive food, and as the box comes down it will 
destroy the sharpest and shrewdest mouse. By this 
method it is not difficult to keep rid of mice in any house. 

2. Fill a sewing thimble with any eatable, as bread 
crumbs, pressed down tightly. Place the thimble under 
the edge of a good-sized bowl, with the open end inward. 
The mouse will nibble at the bread and the thimble will 
gradually work down and the mouse will be caught. The 
bowl should be put upon a loose board. The mouse can 
tlien easily be dispatched. This may seem too simple to 
try, but is very effective. 



Yard and Garden. 



568 



YARD AND GARDEN. 

How to Kill Worms on Rose Bushes.— Take a pail of 
water and stir in a tablespoonful of hellebore and sprinkle 
the bushes thoroughly. One application will generally be 
sufficient. 

Flower Seeds. — Put away garden and flower seeds in 
paper sacks properly labeled, then keep them away from 
the mice. 

How to Improve a Lawn. — Lawns can be kept green 
and thickest without the use of stable manure. City and 
village people who have a few square rods of grass usually 
imagine it necessary to keep the plot covered for weeks 
with highly-scented and ill-looking manure, when the fact 
is that one-half the money's worth of nitrate of soda and 
powdered phosphate of lime will answer better and create 
no nuisance. They furnish to the soil what is most 
needed, an alkali, phosphoric acid and nitrogen. Both of 
them are inodorous and show their effects immediately on 
their application. 

Flower Beds. — Don't cut up your lawn with flower 
beds, for the effect will be sure to be displeasing. Leave 
your lawn in its restful, unbroken greenness and confine 
your flowers to the old-fashioned borders where they are 
always charming. 

Honse Plants. — Saturate the earth around house plants 
every day with coffee left over from breakfast. It stim- 
ulates them. Plants that have a red or purple blossom will 
be rendered extremely brilliant in color by covering the 
earth in their pots with about half an inch of pulverized 
charcoal. A yellow flower will not be affected in any way 
by the use of charcoal. 

A Nice Little Flower Gtarden. — Get your bed in a nice 
sunny place, well spaded and full of rich stuff, and I'll tell 
you six first-rate flowers. Right in the middle set a 
circle of woven wire as large around as you can afford 
ground — not more than two feet in diameter, or six feet, 
if you prefer. Plant sweet peas on both sides of it six 
inches deep and earth pressed down on top. If the diame- 
ter can be eight feet, plant in the middle of that a ricinus 
seed, or three so you will be sure of one plant; do not let 
more than one plant grow. This will fill all the space and 
stand two feet high. The woven wire must be four ox 
five feet wide to train your peas to as they grow. Outside 
grow a drcle of petunias. This flower is wonderfully 



510 



Sweet Peas. 



improved of late. Select the new blu€-flowered and th^ 
fancy sorts, which are magnificent in the latest strains. 
Outside plant a ring of nasturtiums. Better take the dwarf 
sorts, if you do not have abundant room. This is the 
finest annual in existence, sweet, floriferous, and elegant. 
Next plant a mixed ring, made up of patcher of mignon- 
ette, dwarf convolvulus and verbenas. If that doesn't 
make you happy, nothing will. 

SWEET PEAS. 

Sweet Peas have become so universally popular that 
all who have the ground wish to grow their own sweet 
peas; and there is no reason why they should not 
grow them and have glorious success with them, too, if 
they will observe a few simple rules. First — Order your 
seeds from some reliable seedsmen, and not from the 
corner grocery, and then get them into the ground as 
early as possible in the spring. Select a sunny spot and 
run your rows from north to south, so that the morning 
sun can get at the roots. The soil should be moderately 
rich and heavy, and if you neglected in the fall to dig in 
a liberal dressing of manure, you must have especial care 
now that only that which is well rotted be used. Sow your 
seed about an inch apart and cover to a depth of not 
less than four inches. When they have peeped above the 
ground two inches or so, draw the earth up about them 
until only the tips are still showing, and later thin them 
out until they stand three inches apart. 

Where there is plenty of ground, the rows should be 
single and not less than four feet apart, but where econ- 
omy of space is a consideration the rows may be double 
and the seed sown in two lines, from six to twelve inches 
apart. The trellis for the plants to grow on should be 
six feet high. Wire netting is good, but no better than 
the cheaper bush supports of beech or birch branches. 

Follow these directions, and when your sweet peas 
begin to bloom give them plenty of water and keep every 
blossom picked, and you will have sweet peas that will 
be a joy from .Tune till September. 

Don't expect sweet peas to thrive in soil too poor for 
any other culture, or in a sunless location. They need, 
as nearly as possible, a free clay loam, moderately rich and 
freely cultivated. 

Don't sow too shallow. Plant the seeds not less than 
two inches deep, and, as the plants become established, 



How to Destroy Cabbage and Strawberry Worms. 511 

bank the soil against them, repeating this two or three 
times throughout the season. 

Don't over-feed. With a view to obtaining vigorous 
growth and profusion of bloom, bone, in some form, is 
the best fertilizer. Nitrate of soda will do f»r a "hurry-up" 
stimulant, should such be needed; but use it sparingly. 

Don't gather the blooms grudgingly. The more you 
cut the longer the vine will continue to flower. Re- 
member, when they go to seed, sweet peas cease flowering. 




HOW TO DESTROY CABBAGE WORMS. 



The cabbage worm has been very troublesome of late 
years, but is easily gotten rid of. Our plan is to go over 
the patch in the morning and sift a little fresh Persian 
insect powder over the heads while the dew is on. This 
will kill every worm it touches in less than five minutes 
and it is but a short job to treat five hundred heads if 
a common pepper-box, such as ground pepper comes in, is 
used to hold the powder. One shake on a calm morning 
before the breeze starts up is sufficient for a head, and 
it can be done almost at a walk. This operation should be 
repeated at least once a week as long as the millers are 
seen flying around. The insect powder is entirely harmless 
and is only poisonous to insect life. 

Hot Water. — Hot water is also an excellent remedy. 
Apply at about 150 degrees Fahr. No injury to the cab- 
bage will result. 



612 Enemies cfthe Farm and Garden 




How to Destroy Currant and Gooseberry Worms. 



Take a tablespoonful of hellebore and stir it into a pail o'' 
water, and apply to the bushes with a sprinkler. One or 
two applications will generally be sufficient. A little care 
in watching the bushes is necessary. The worms generally 
begin at the bottom, and are not noticed until the bush is 
nearly destroyed. 

HOW TO DESTROY PLANT-LICE. 

There is scarcely a tree, bush or herb that grows in our gar- 
Jens or fields, that is not infested with some species of plant- 
lice. Their manner of living, and of reproduction, have at- 
tracted much interest. They both deposit their eggs and bring 
forth their young alive, a peculiarity which does not take place 
In any of our fourwinged Insect*. Tlieir multiplication is im- 
mense, and were it not for their numerous enemies, all <mr 
vegetable products would be consumed as fast as they grow. 

Bemedy. When the plant-lice get too numerous take a little 
flower of sulphur, and mix it with a llttte sawdust, and seattw 
•r«r the plaata. 



Practical Rules for Keeping Poultry. 



513 




DABS BBAHUAS. 



PRACTICAL RULES FOR KEEPING POULTRY. 

1. A little glycerine applied occasionally to the combs 
and wattles will prevent injury by frosting. 

2. A great source of contagion is the drinking troughs. 
Remember this if roup should make its appearance in 
your poultry-house. j • i • 

3. In place of "tonics," drop a nail into the drmking 
trough and allow it to remain there. It will supply all 
the "tincture of iron" required. 

4. If you feed -.vrhole corn, place it in the oven and parch 
it occasionally and foed smoking hot. The fowls appre- 
ciate it in the cold, frosty weather. 

5. A little linseed or oil meal given once a week m the 
soft feed will promote laying. This will not come under 
the heading of "dosing the fowls with medicme." 

6. Do not throw your table scraps into the swill barrel. 
Give them to the chickens. , , • t 

7. One of the most important points m the keepmg of 
ducks is to give them clean, dry quarters at night. They 
are very prone to leg weakness from cold, damp quarters. 

8 Feed your fowls just what they will eat up clean. 
Fat hens or pullets are poor layers, and the latter are just 
what you don't want. 

9. Fowls over three years old are not, as a rule, good 
as " 



514 



Practical Rules for Keeping Poultry. 



for breeders. The males are unable to property fertilize 
eggs for hatching, while the stock is usually weak; l<our 
years is generally considered a "ripe old age for a fowl. 

10. Each hen, if properly kept, will lay from 200 to 250 
eggs a year. , 

11. Liver and intestines are an excellent food to make- 
hens lay. 

rz. Keep an abundant supply of lime where the hkns 
can- easily get at it if you desire your hens to lay well. 

13. Always clean the nest well and put in fresh straw 
before the hen begins to sit. 

14. It is best in breeding to cross or mix the breeds 
more or less every year. It improves the flesh and gen- 
eral health of the fowls. 

15. Pullets are better layers than old hens. Keep your 
stock young by disposing annually of the Old broods. 

16. Keep at least one rooster for every eight hens^ if; 
you desire vigorous young chickens. 

17. It is a good plan to change roosters every year.'- 
\%. Roosters are best at two yeats of age. 




SAETEIDOE COCHINS. 



DISEASES AND THEIR TREATMENTS. 

In North America the climate is very good for all 
kinds of poultry. There are very few diseases but what 
readily yield to judicious treatment. 



Practical Rules for Keeping Poultry. 



515 



Most of the diseases to which fowls are subject are the 
results of neglect, exposure or bad diet. 

HOW TO CURE THE CllIt'KLI^ CHOLERA. 

Symptoms. — The symptoms of chicken cholera a^e 
Ifreenish droppings, prostration, and intense thirst. It 
should not be mistaken for indigestion. Cholera kills 
quickly, and this is a sure indication. 

Remedy. — The best rem dy is lo add a teasnoonful of 
carbolic acid to a quart of water and give no other water 
to drink. The remedy is not a sure cure, but is one of 
the best. When cholera puts in an appearance, every- 
thing on the place should be thoroughly cleaned and dis- 
infected, the remedy mentioned above being also an ex- 
cellent disinfectant. 

ANOTHER GOOD RECIPE. 

Yi pound madder. 
Yi pound sulphur. 
2 ounces antimony. 
2 ounces saltpetre. 

pound cayenne pepper. 
Mix a tablcspoonful in feed for 30 chickens. 

ASTHMA. 

Symptoms. — The fowls labor for breath, opening^ the 
beak often and for quite a time, and sometimes drops of 
blood appearing on the beak. 

Treatment. — Take 'he disease m hand as soon as d's- 
covered. keep the fowl warm, and srive equal parts of sul- 
phur and butter mixed in fresh lard. 

FEVER. 

Symntom*!. — Restlessness, refusing to eat, droopinp w ngs 
and excessive heat. 

Treatment. — Mix a I'ttle c^'^tor oil with bnrn'^ bti"^- 
and give a teaspoonful three times a day. 

LOSS OF FEATHERS. 

This disease, common to confined fowls, should not be 
confused with the natiTpl process of r"ou'tinsr. In the 
^^I'c^psed state no new fen*hers cpn^f to renlTe the old. 

Troqtine"*'. — K'^en wmi ■ '^d t hemn =e'-d and cor:i 
Add brown sugar to the water. 



516 



Practical Rules for Keeping Poultry. 



GAPES. 

The Gapes is a very common ailment of poultry and 
domestic birds. More common among the young than 
the old. 

Cause.— The disease is caused by the presence of little 
red worms, in the wind-pipe, about the size of a small 
cambric needle. 

Symptoms. — Gaping for breath with beak wide open, 
yellow beak, tongue dry and feathers ruffled on the head 
and neck. 

Treatment. — Give a pill each morning made of equal 
parts of scraped garlic and horse radish, with as much 
cayenne pepper as will outweigh a grain of wheat; mix 
with fresh butter. 

If a good many are affected, put from five to ten drops 
of turpentine to a pint of meal. 

Treatment must be given in the early stages of the dis- 
ease, or all remedies will fail. 



HOW TO DESTKOY AND KEEP RID OF HEN'S LICE. 

All fowls are more or less infested with lice. Fowls are 
sometimes so covered that the natural color of the feath- 
ers can not be distinguished. These loathsome vermin 
will not only cover the fowls, but will multiply and spread 
over the entire hen-house, barn, wood-shed or any other 
place frequented by the poultry. 

Poultry cannot be fattened when covered with lice. 

1 . Remedy. — Whitewash the hen-house f requently, white- 
wash all the roosting poles, etc., or run them slowly 
through a fire of old straw or hay. 

2. Close the hen-house up tightly and burn sulphur in it. 
The sulphur fumes will penetrate every crevice and de- 
stroy the vermin. 

3. Flour of sulphur may be mixed with Indian meal and 
water, and be fed in the proportion of one pound of sul- 
phur to two dozen fowls, every two days. 

4. Applying grease of any kind by rubbing it among 
the feathers is certain death to the vermin. 

5. Remove droppings dail)^ and keep the house clean 
and you will not be troubled with these pests. 



Practical Rules for Keeping Poultry. 517 




BKOWN LEGHORNS. 



HOW TO PICRLE eggs. 

1. A good, cool place is necessary. The temperature must 
be kept above the freezing point. 

2. Select a good kerosene barrel and take out the head and 
set fire to the inside and burn it until slightly charred, then 
smother out the fire by turning it bottom side up. Scrape off 
charred parts and soak in lime-water until the smell of kero- 
sene is entirely removed. 

3. To Make the Pickle.— Take one bushel of best fresh 
lime, one peck of rock-salt, and 60 gallons of clean vrater, (use 
similar proportions for smaller quantities.) Slake the lime as 
for making whitewash, add the rest of the water, and then 
the salt. Stir well two or three times the first day and then 
iet it stand until well settled and cold. 

4. Now dip off the clear fluid carefully and put it into the 
barrel until about one-half full. 

6. Now put in the eggs, without breaking. When you have 
about a foot of eggs on the bottom of the barrel pour in some 
of the " milky " pickle made by stirring up the lime and water 
left. It Is these light, fine particles of lime settling on the 
the eggs and filling the pores that preserve the eggs. 

6. Care should be taken not to put in too much or too Httle 
oC the ' milky" pickle, pour in enough to cover the eggs 



5 1 8 Practical Rules fo r Keeping Poultry. 



nicely wheu settled. If not enough lime, the white of the 
egg will get watery, if too much it will stick on the outside 
like plaster, and be difficult to remove. 

7. A faucet should be fitted into the barrel about six 
inches from the bottom, so that the pickle can be drawn off 
when necessary. 

8. A common method for small q-aantities : Take a box oir 
half barrel and first put in a layer of common salt, and then a 
layer of eggs, and so on, until the desired quantity is packed. 




•Poultry Raisers' Egg Food Powder," 

(to make hens lay eggs.) 

Red pepper powdered, 2 ounces, 
Allspice powdered, 4 ounces. 
Ginger powdered, 6 ounces. 
Ml K them by sifting. 

1 tablespoonful to be mixed with every pound of fo«4, aai 

fed 2 or 3 times a week. 
Also feed chopped-up fresh meat. 

FOR SCALY LEGS 
Apply « little kerosene oil once a week. Be •arofttl not to 
get on too much, or it will blister and injure. 



Practical Rules for Keeping P^ttlhy. 



110 



WEAT TO FEED. 

H- Bry' food is best for chickens, 

2. ffci^iri'g:' grain usually does away with idle hens. 

3. Healtiiy'Kvwls pick up their food quickly and relish it. 

4. When it cart' lie; done, it pays to grind bone for 
poultry. 

5. Fowls having a good rang* gatHer a good variety of 
food. 

6. The morning feed should be warm and' fed' asr early 
as possible. 

7. With poultry, as with everything else, good feeding 
always pays. 

8. Stale bread soaked in milk makes a good f*e4 f#r 
young poultry. 

9. Feeding soft feed exclusively is almo«t certain t« in- 
duce disease. 

10. The true secret of profitable breeds is in the fo«4 

and care given them. 

11. Cooked corn meal is much better than raw to feed 
to young poultry. „ , • u, 

12. Care and cleanliness m feedmg fowls will be ncnly 
repaid in better health and thrift. 

13. Ducks will eat all sorts of coarse food, such as cab- 
bage, chopped turnips, etc., and do well on it, and while 
they are voracious eaters, they can be fed very cheaply. 

14. When turkeys have been kept growing from the start 
as they should, three weeks of good feeding is all that is 
necessary to put in a good condition for market. 

15. Turnips, beets, carrot nd the cabbage that has 
failed to head up properly can be used to a good advantage 
in feeding poultry during the winter. Better results can 
always be secured if the fowls can have something green 
during the winter, or something that will in an emergency 
take its place, and any one of these things can be used 
to a good advantage. 

POULTRY POINTERS. 

1 Hens will lay as well when not in company with males 
as with them, and the eggs will keep twice as long. 

2 Be careful to lay in a good supply of dry road dust 
early in the season for use during the coming winter. Uo 
not put it off until the last moment, but attend to it at the 
first opportunity. . ^, . 

7, To make poultry pay well, there are some things 
which must be understood. You must keep m view your 



520 Practical Rules for Keeping Poultry. 



object in breeding, whether it be for eggs or for table; you 
must know how to breed and select the best birds suited 
for your purpose; you must keep your eyes wide open in 
order to sell your produce to the best advantage. Follow 
these principles steadily, and you will make poultry pay. 

4. There is but one sure method of cleaning earth floors, 
and that is to remove the top soil to the depth of four 
inches and add clean earth in its place. This must be done 
every summer, fall and spring; the floor should be kept 
well covered with litter, leaves being best for that pur- 
pose. During the summer air-slacked lime should be ap- 
plied once a week, thus destroying the germs of any 
disease that may be present. It will lessen the liability 
of loss. 

5. A market report gives quotations on eggs that are 
described as "Western dirties." It is a commentary upoi\ 
the habits of certain farmers that their careless methods 
have to be branded in the market reports. 

6. If when an egg became dirty it was an impossibility to 
clean it the matter would be dififerent, but all that is re- 
quired is a little warm water and a little time. 

7. It was also noteworthy that while fresh clean eggs 
were quoted by the dozen, and at a good price, yet the 
"Western dirties" were quoted by the case. The price 
was too low to bother with giving it for a single dozen. 
But such things have their bright side. 

8. Dirty eggs make an increased market for clean eggs. 
If everyone sent his eggs to market in good condition 
there would be only one grade, and the price of that 
would be lower than it is now. So the man who employs 
careless methods, whether it be in the egg business or in 
the dairy business, helps along his neighbor who takes 
pains. 

9. If you want to help along your neighbor send your 
eggs to market without washing ,and your butter in such 
shape that it will deserve to be classed as axle grease. 

10. Peas and beans are both good egg foods, and where 
there is a supply of either they should be boiled and fed 
to the fowls. 

11. Sell some of the corn you were going to feed your 
chickens and buy oil meal with the money. It will be a 
profitable trade. 

12. Fowls like a variety of food. Give them a cabbage 
head to pick at or some chopped turnips, beets or pota- 
toes. 



Practical Rules for Keeping Poultry. 



521 



13. Keep the ducks and geese well fed during the winter 
and they will begin to lay earlier in the spring for it. 

14. No farmer expects his cattle or swine to do well 
if they run at large, and most farmers know that to allow 
this is a waste of feed, but a good many seem to forget that 
the same ruU applies to fowls. They must be well kept or 
they will not pay for their keeping. 

15. A good morning feed for a cold snap is corn parched 
in the oven of the kitchen stove until it is charred black 
on the outside. Feed this as warm as it can be held in the 
hand without burning. A crop full of this hot corn warms 
a chicken clear through. 

16. Whatever other animals can bear, fowls must have a 
well drained location and a south exposure. A stone foun- 
dation put in a trench, not above the ground, will keep out 
rats. A dovible wall, with an air chamber, gives the warm- 
est kind of building. It is less important whether plaster 
or ceiling be used inside than that the air chamber be small 
and that there shall be plenty of ventilation. Ventilatmg 
tubes can be closed during cold weather, but a sufficient 
number of tubes are needed to thoroughly change the air 
when thaws and dampness come. 

17. The equivalent of five pecks of corn will keep a hen 
a year. If this year's rations are made up of two pecks 
of wheat, two pecks of oats and one peck of corn, together 
with what bugs and insects the hen can pick up about the 
farm, she will do her best. The man who feeds his 
chickens with a scoop shovel will not be boasting about 
the number of eggs he gets. 



A comPleU^ 



MEDICAL DICTIONARY. 



J^bdomen— vTbeiowpr front part of 

the body. 
Abnormal— Unbealthy, unnatural. 
Abortion— A premature birth, or 

miscarriage. 
.Abrasion — Bruisinsf and conse- 

qn«nt rubbing off of the ekin. 
.Abscess— A cavity containing p'ls. 
A.cetata — A aalt prepared with 

ac<"tic acid. 
/Acidity— Sourness. 
iAconlte- Aconitum Napellus; 

Monk's Hood. 
Acrid— Irritatinf, biting. 
Adipose Fatty. 
Adult— Person of full growth. 
Albumen— Constituting the chief 

part of the white of egfi. 
Aliment— Any kind of food. 
Alimentary Canal— The entire 

passage through which food 

passes ; the whole intestines from 

(■moath to anns. 
^Iterative— Medicines which will 

gradually restore healthy action. 
iAlteratives change in some un- 
explained way the conditions and 

functions of organs. 
Amenorrliea— Absence of menses. 
AnestbetlCS — Medicinen depriy- 

inij of sensation and suffering. 
Anemia— .\n impoverished state of 

blood. Bloodlespness. 
Anodyne — A medicine which v^iU 

allay pnin. 
Anodynes allay or diminish pain. 
Antacids - Remedies for acidiiy of 

the stomach. 
Antelmintics kill or expel 

worms. 

jAntifiote — A medicine used to 

c unt*(ract poison. 
Antiphlogistic — Remedy for 

fpijpT and Inflammation, 
Antlperiodics obriate the return 

ot a paroxysm in periodic dis- 

Mses. 

Antiscorbutic — A remedy for 
pcnrvy. 

Antiseptics prevent, arrest or re- 
tard putrefaction. 

Antisialagogue— Remedy for sal- 
ivation. 

Antlapaamodlcs prevent or allay 
cramiis. 

Antisyphllitic— Remedy for ven- 
ereal iiiseaseB. 

Anus— Circular opening or outlet 
of the bowels. 

Aperient— A gentle laxative or 
purgative. 



Aperients gently open the bowels. 
Aphtha — Thrush ; infant's sore 

mouth. 
Aqua— Water. 

Aqua Ammonia— Water of am- 
monia. 

Aromatic — Spicy and fragrant 
drugs, used to prevent griping of 
drastic purgatives. 

Aromatics— Strong-smelling stim- 
ulants which dispel wind and 
allay pain. 

Arsenic — A metal, commonly 
called ratsbane. 

Astringents cause contraction of 
vital structures ; used in diara- 
rhea, whites, etc. 

Auscultation -Act of listsning to 
sounds in any part of the body. 

Bacteria — Infusoria; microscop- 
ical insects, supposed to cause 
many diseases. 

Balm — Aromatic and fragrant 
medicine, usually an ointment. 

Balsam— Resinous substances, pos- 
8<»ssiQg healing properties. 

Basilicon— An ointment contain- 
ing wax, resin, etc. 

Belladonna— Name of the plant, 
ni<hr shade, 

Bergamot— Oil extracted from the 
citrus bergamia. 

Benzoin Balsamic resin from sty- 
rax benzoin. 

Bile— A secretion from the liver. 

Bilious— An undue amount of bile. 

Bolus— A large pill. 

Bronchia— Branches of the wind- 
pipe. 

Bronchitis— Inflammation of the 
bronchial tubes, which lead into 
the lunge. 

Butyric Acid— An acid obtained 
from butter. 

Calamus— Sweet flag. 

Calcareous Deposit — Stone or 
gravel found in the bladder, gall 
ducts, kidney, etc. 

Calenduline - Mixture of calen- 
dula and co^moline. 

Callous— A hard bony substance or 
jirowth. 

Capillaries— Hair-like vessels for 
conveying the blood from the ar- 
torieH to tlie veins. 

Capsicum— (/ayenne pepper. 

CarminatiTes — Warmin.= stimu- 
lants (Aromatics). 



522 



Mtdical DicHonaty. 



52S 



0»tarrll— Flow of mncus from the 
nose or other parts of the body. 

Cathartic— A cfrag that increases 
tho action of the bowels. 

Cathartics fre«ly open the bowels. 

Catheter -Tub* for emptyinc the 
bladder 

Caustic— A corroding or destroying 
bubstance, as nitrate of silTer, 
potash, etc. 

Cauterize— To burn a disoaaed or 
injured part. 

Cellular— Composed of cells. 

Cervix— Neck. 

Cholagogues increase the tecre. 

tion of bile. 
Chronic— Of long standing. 
Citric Acid — Acid made from 

lemons. 

Cohosh— Black snake root. Bguaw 
root. 

Collapse— A sudden failing of the 
Titaf powers. 

Coma— Stupor. Lethargy. 

Condiment— That which gires rel- 
ish to food. 

Congestion — Over - fullness of 
bl. -od TesBels. 

Contagious— Disease that may be 
fjiven to another by contact. 

Constipation— CoBtivenes*. 

Contusion— .\ bruise. 

Convalescence— Improvement in 
health 

Corrosive— Eating away. 
Cuticle— The outer or first portion 

of the skin, which consists of 

three coats. 

Osttura Stramonium — Thorn- 
apple, jlmsoa etc. 

Decoction— Preparation made by 
boiling. 

Defecation— To go to stool. 

Demulcent— Mucilaginous, as n;.x 
seed and gum arable. 

Demulcents sheathe and protect 
irritated surfaces. 

Dentition— Act or process of cat- 
ting teeth. , . J 

Dentifrice — A preparation to 
cleanse the teeth. . 

Detergents- Cleansing medicines, 
aa laxatives and purgatives 

Dlagnofis-Theartof discrimicr. 
ing disease. ,, . , • 

Diaphoretics — Medicines wl' 
aid or produce perspiratior . 

Diaphoretics cause perspn 

Diaphragm— Midriff. 

Dlarrh<»a-Loo«ene»* of the bowr 

Dietetics— Relating to diet or im^u. 

Diluent— A substance that dilutes 
ot thins liquid. 



Diluted— Reduced with water, at 
dilute alcohol, half alcohol and 
half water. 

Diphtheria — A malignant mem- 
branous diseas* of the thr9at. 

Discutient— A medicine which will 
scatter or drive away tumors. 

Dlscutients dispel enlargements. 

Disinfectants destroy infecting 
matter. 

Diuretic— Causing increased dis- 

ciiarge of urine. 
Diuretics increase the secretion of 

urine. ^ 
Dorsal— Having reference to the 

back. 

Douche— A dash or stream upon 

any part. 
Drachm— 60 grains, a teaspoonful. 
Duodenum— The first part of the 

small intestines. 
Dyspepsia— DiflBcnlt digestion. _ 
Dysuria— Difficult or painful un- 

nntion. 

Ehullition— Boiling. 
Ecbolics cause contraction of the 
womb. 

Eclectic — The act ot choosing, 

selecting. 
Eclectic Physician — One who 

professes to bo liberal in views 

and independent of medical 

schools. 
Effervesce- To foam. 
Effete— Worn out, waste matter, 
aflorescence- Kedness of the gen- 
eral smfacis eruption. 
Electuary -Medicine prepared in 

t ie consistpuce of honey. 
'Elixir -A tincture prepared with 

mo e than oil" article. 
Emetic— M •dirines which produce 

« n HIS. V 'Tni ing. 
FraeticB are medicines which 

II- .'MiTiiting. 
Emme'.iagogue— Remedy that pro- 

ni Tos 1 :,M niftistrual discharge. 
Emulsion - Mucilage from emol- 

ii<', •-. 
Enceinte- Prpffnnnt. 
Ensma -An injeciiomnto the reo- 

' ifudp. dn'lness ■*\ 
of condition, etc. 
Timaiion of the 

kin. 

.1,1 8, fics, with 
r the time, and 
i,!' i.ioutb. 
I o' ■ . ,x.>— Nose bleed. 

^raot -Smut of rye. A poisonous 
I tungou-^ growth. 



524 



Medical Dictionary. 



Eructation— Raising wind f: ;:i 
the stomach, belching. 

Eruption— Pimples or blotches on 
skin or postoles from small-pox. 

Escliarotio— That which will de- 
stroy the flesh. 

Etber— A volatile flaid. 

Eustachian Tube— A tube leading 
from behind the soft palate to the 
drum of the ear. 

Evacuation— The act of discharg- 
ing by stool. 

Evaporation — Conversion of a 
liquid into vapor. 

Exacerbation— Violent increase in 
disease. 

Exantbemata— Rash or eruption 
on the skin, as in small-pox, scar- 
let fever, measles, etc. 

Excoriation— A chafing or abra- 
sion of the skin. 

Excrement— The feces, that which 
passes by stool. 

Excrescence-An unu atural growth 

Exbalent— Giving off fumes. 

Expectorant — Tending to produce 
free discharges from the lungs or 
throat. 

Expectorants increase the secre- 
tions from the air tubes. 

Excision— The cutting out, or cut- 
ting o£f any part. 

Extremity— Applied to the arms 
and legs. 

Extirpation — The comDlete re- 
moval of a part. 

Extract— To take out, as a tooth, 
to extract a ball or any foreign 
substance from r wound. 

Extravasation -A collection of a 
fluid in a cavity, or under the skin, 
outside of its proper vessels. 

Faecen— jDischarge from the bow- 
els. 

Fallopian Tubea— Tubes from 
ovaries to uterus. Oviducts. 

Farina— Meal or flour from vege- 
tables. 

Fauces— The upper part of the 

throat. 

Febrile— Having reference to fever. 

rebrlfuge — Medicines to drive 
away fever, producing perspira- 
tion. 

Febrifuges counteract fever — 

lower temperature. 
Feces— Discharge from the bowels. 
Felon— A deep abscess of the finger. 
Femur- The thigh bone. 
Femoral— Relating to the thigh. 
Ferment— To effervesce, to work, 

m emptyings, beer, wine, cider, 

etc. 



7 ;rmentation — The process by 
which the above work of ferment- 
ing is carried on by nature or art. 

Ferrum— Iron. 

Ferrl Llmatura — Iron filings, 
very valuable in female debility 
and for males of weak habit of 
body. 

Fetal— Pertaining to the fetus or 

child in the womb. 
Fetus— Child in the womb after 

the fifth month. 
Fibre -A very small thread-like 

substance of animal or vegetable 

matter. 

Fibula— The smallest bone of the 

leg below the knee. 
Filler- To strain through paper, 

made for that purpose. 
Fistula -An ulcer having a sinuous 

external opening. 
Flaccid- Flabby, soft, relaxed. 
Flatulence— Gas in the stomach 

or bowels. 
Flatus— Collection of wind or gas 

in the stomach or bowels. 
Flooding— Uterine hemorrhage. 
Fluor— An increased discharge, a 

flowing, flux. 
Fluor Albus— White flow, leucor- 

rhea, whites, etc. 
Fluoric Acid— A fluid obtained 

from the flnor spar cut with sul- 
phuric acid. 
Flux— Diarrhea, or other excessive 

discharges. 
Formula— Medical prescription. 
Fumigate— To smoke a room, or 

any article needing to be cleansed. 
Function— The particular action of 

an organ, as the functions of the 

stomach, liver, lungs, etc. 
Fundament— The anus. 
Fundus— Body, 

Fungus— Spongy fl^sh in wounds, 

proud flesh, or a soft cancer. 
Fusion— The act of melting by heat. 

Calbanum— A resinous gum from 

a genus of plants. 
Galipot— A glazed jar, used for 

putting up gummy extracts or 

ointments. 
Gall-Bile. 

Galla-The gall-nut.an ezcreeconce 
found upon the oak. 

Gall Bladder— A bag which re- 
ceives the gall, or bile, through 
ducts, from the liver, delivering 
it to the stomach. 

Gallic Acid— An acid from the nut- 
gall. 

Gall Stones— Hard, bil'ary concre- 
tions found La the gall bladder. 



Mtdieal . 

CalTanle— Harloir referenc* to 
calvanism. 

Qamboge— A drastic pnrgativo, 
anless combined with aromatics. 

Ganglion — A Icnot, or lamp on ten* 
dons, ligaments, or nerres. 

Gangrene— The first stage of mor- 
tification. 

Gaseous— Having the natnreof gas. 

Gastric— Of or belonging to the 
stomach. 

Gastric Juice — Secretion of the 
stomach. 

Gastritis— Inflammation of the 
stomach. 

Gastrodynia— Pain in the stom- 
ach, sometimes with spasm. 

Gelatine- Isinglass. 

Gelatinous— Like jelly. 

Genitals — Belonging to gensra- 
tion ; the sexnal organs. 

Gentian— A European root, pos- 
sessing tonic properties. 

Genu— The knee. 

Genuflexion— Act of bending the 
linee. 

Genus— Family of plants, a group, 
all of a class or nature. 

Germ— The vital principle, or life- 
spark. 

Gestation— Psriod of growth of 
cthld in the womb. 

Gleet— Chronic gonorrhea. 

Globules— Small, roaud particles, 
having special reference to par- 
ticles of trie red part of the blood. 

Glossa— The tongue. 

Glossarist— A writer of glosses or 
comments. 

Glossitis — Inflammation of the 
tongue. 

Glottis— The opening of the wind- 

fiipe, at the root of the tongue, 
arynx, covered by the epiglottis. 
Gluten— Vegetable fibrine, existing 

in farinaceous grains. 
Glutton— One who eats excessively. 
Gonorrbea — An infections dis- 
charge from the genital organs. 
Gout— Painful inflammation of the 
joints, especially those of the toes, 
or of the fingers. 
Granule — A small particle of 

healthy matter, not pus. 
Granulation — Healing up of an 
ulcer orwound,byfillmgap with 
healthy matter. 
Gravel— Crystalline, sand-like par- 
ticles in the nrine. 
Griping — Grinding pain in the 

stomach, or bowels. 
Gustatory- Pertaining to taste. 
Outta Percha— Dried juice of a 
yenus of trees (lacmandra ffutta). 



S25 



Guttural— Relating to the throat. 
Gymnasium- A place for sportive 
•xercise. 

Gypsum— Sulphate of lime, more 
commonly cEilled plaster of Paris. 

Hectic— The fever caused by irri- 
tation. 

Hema— Blood, prefixed to other 

words. 

Hematemesis- Vomiting of blood. 
Hematuria— Hemorrhage from the 

bladder, or urinary passages. 
Hemoptysis — Hemorrhage from 

the lungs. Literally, spitting of 

blood. 

Hemorrliolds — Piles. Tumors in 

and about the anus. 
Hereditary — Transmitted from 

parents. 

Hernia— Rupture, which permits a 
part of the bowels to protrude. 

Herpes— Disease of the skin. Tetter. 

Hiera Picra— A medicine contain- 
ing aloes and canella. 

Humeral— Pertaining to the arm. 

Humerus— The single bone of the 
upper arm. 

Humors— The fluids of the body, 
•xcluding the blood. 

Hydragogues — Medicines which 
remove water from the system; 
used in dropsy. 

Hydrarf yrum- Metallic mercury, 
quicksilver. 

Hydrastis — Golden seal, yellow 
root. 

Hydrocyanic Acid— Prussio acid; 
nothing more poisonous. 

Hydrofluoric Acid— Same as flu- 
oric acid. 

Hygeia— Health. 

Hvgiene— The art of preserving 
health. 

Hypoglottis — Under part of the 

tongue. 

Hysteria- A nervous affection, 
marked by alternate fits of laugh- 
ing and crying, with a sensation 
of strangulation. 

Hysteritis— Inflammation of the 
uterus. 

Ichor— An acrid, biting, watery 
discharge from ulcers or wounds. 

Icterus— Jaundice, a bilious dis- 
ease, which shows yellowness of 
the eyes and skin. 

Icterus Albus— Chlorosis, whites, 
etc. 

Ignition— Set on fire, from state 
of being Ignis (fire). 

Ilieus— Colic in the small intes- 
tines. 



526 



Medical Dictionary. 



{llac— Situated near the flank, 
liac Region— Sides of the abdo- 
men botwean the ribi and the 
thighs. 

Imbecile— One weak of mind. 
Imbibe— To absorb ; to drink. 
Imbricate— To overlap, as tilts on 

a house. 

Immobile-Immovabls.as stiff joints 
Imperforate — Without a natural 
opening. 

ImpervlouB— Clossd against wat«r. 
Impotence— Sterility ; inability to 

produce. 

Impregnation- The act of rtpro- 

ducing. 

Incision -The cutting in with in- 
strumnnts. 

Incontinence — Inability to hold 
the natural excretions. 

Incubation -Th» hatching of eggs ; 
slow development of disease. 

Indication — That which shows 
what ought to be done by phy- 
sician. 

Indigenous — Peculiar to a conn- 
try, or to a small section of coum- 
try ; applied to a disaass, plants, 

etc. 

Indolent— Slow in progress; ap- 
plied to ulcers and tumors, which 
are slow, with but little or no pain. 

Induration — Hardening of any 
part of the syittem by disease. 

Infectious — Communicabl* from 
one to another, as disease. 

Infirmary— Place where medicines 
are distributed gratuitousiy to the 
poor. 

Inflammation— Disease, attended 
with heat, redneBS, swellin;?, ten- 
derness, and often with throbbing. 

InflatUS— Collection of wind or gas, 
as in the stomach, bowels, etc. 

Influenza -A disease affecting the 
nostrils, throat, etc. ; of a catar- 
rhal nature. 

Infusion — Medicines prepared by 
steeping in water, without boiling. 

Infusoria — Microscopical animals. 

Inguinal— Belonging to the groin. 

Ingredient— One article of a com- 
pound mixture. 

Inlialatiou— Act of drawing in the 
breath. 

Injection— Any preparation intro- 
ducfid into the rectum, or other 
cavity, by syringe. 

Insanity — derangement of the 
mind. 

Introversion— State of being turn- 
ed inward. 

Inspiration— The act of drawing 
in the breath. 



Insplssatlon— Thickening, by boil- 
ing, to make what is called the con- 
centrated extracts. 

Instinct— An involuntary action, 
as closing the eyelids, breathing,, 
etc. ; natural perception of ani' 
mals. 

Insomnia- Sleeplessness. 

Integument— A covering, the skin. 

Intercostal— Between tne ribs. 

Intermission- Time between par- 
oxysms of fever, or other disease. 

Intermittent Fever— Fever which 
comes oQ at regular periods. 

Interosseous— Between the bones. 

Interval— The tims between par- 
oxysms of periodical diseases, as 
ague, etc. 

Intestines— Contents of the abdo- 
men. 

Inveriio Uteri— Inversion of the 
uterus. 

Inversion— Turning inside out. 
Irreducible— Applied to hernia, 

and to joints which hav* been 

put out, and cannot be put back 

to their place. 
Ischuria— Inability to pass the 

urine. 

Issue — Svre, made as a counter- 
irritant, to draw irritation from 
a diseased part. 

Itch— Scabies. A catching erup- 
tion of the skin, accompanied by 
severe itching. 

Itis— An addition to a word, denot- 
ing inflammation, pleuritis, plea« 
risy, etc. 

Ivory Black— Animal charcoal. 

Jaundice— A disease caused by tha 
inactivity of the liver, or ducta, 
loading from it. 

Jesuits' Bark— First nam* of Peru- 
vian bark, from its having been 
di&'covered by the Jesuit mission- 
ariei. 

Jugular— Belonging to the throat. 
Jujube — A fruit, growing in iSnnth- 

ern Europe, something like a 

plum; used in coughs. 

Kali-Potash. 

Kelp— Ashes of saa-waad. 

Labia— Lips. 

Labia Pudendl— Lips or sidaa of 

ttie vulva. 
Labial— Of or belonging to the 

lips. 

Laboratory— A place of chemical 
exporimpnts or operations. 

Lancinating— Sharp, piercing, aa 
lancinating paina. 



Medical Dictionary. 



Laryngeal— Of the larynx. 
Laryngitis— Inflammation of the 

. throat. 

tarynx— The upper part of th« 

, throat. 

iatent— Hidden, as latent heat. 

See the remarks connect«d with 

st eam boiler explosion. 
Lassitude— Weakness, a feeliag of 

languor. 

Laxative— Remedy inordasing ac- 
tion of the bowels. 

Leptandrln— ActiTe principle ex- 
tracted from the leptandria ■eir- 
ginica, black root, Cu Iyer's 
physic. 

Leucorrhea— Finer albas, whites, 

chlorosis, etc. 
Ligature — A thread of silk or 
other Bubstance, to tie arttries, 
etc. 

Lingua— The tongne. 

Lltfiontriptic — A medicina re- 
ported to dissolve gravel or stone 
in tlie bladder. 

Lithotomy— The operation of cut- 
ting, to take oat stone of the 
blndder. 

Livid Dark colored,black and blu«. 
Loins — Lower part of the back. 
Lotion — A preparation to wash a 
sore. 

Lubricate- To soften with oil, or 

to moisten with fluid. 
Lumbago — Rheumatism of the 

loins. 

Lute— A paste with which to close 
chemical retorts ; the casein, curd 
of milk, is used for that purpose. 

Lymph— A thin, colorless fluid car- 
ried in small vein-like vessels, 
called lymphatics. 

Mai— Bad ; malpractice, bad prac- 
tice, not according to science. 

Malformation — Irregular, unnat- 
ural formation. 

Malaria— Bad gases, cau'sing dis- 
easo, supposed to arise from de- 
caying vegetable matter, also the 
disease itself. 

Malignant— A disease of a very 
serious character. 

Mamma— Thefemale breast, which 
is composed of glands that secrete 
the milk. 

Mastication— The act of chewing. 

Masturbation — Excitement, by 
the hand, of the genital organs. 

Maturity — Ripeness, having ar- 
rived at adult age, beyond further 
growth. 

Materia ^ Matter, healthy sab- 
stance. 



Materia Medica'^^e science of 
medicine, and the medical com- 
binations. ^. , - 

Maturation ~ The forSAtion of 
pus. The act of maturictf; . 

Meconium— The first pasSififiS of - 
babes after birth. . 

Medicated— Having medicusp in-- 
its composition. ^- 

Membrane— A thin, skin-like — 
iug or covering. 

Metritis — Inflammation of the 
womb. 

Medicinal— Having medical prop- 
erties. 

Medullary-Lik©inarrow,brainlike 
Menstruation— Monthly flow. 
Median— The middle. 
Mellifluous — Flowing as with 

honey, sweet, deliciou-s. 
Menorrhagia— Profuse menstrna^ 

tion. 

Micturition- Urinating, passing; 

the urine. 
Midwifery — Art of assisting at- 

child-birth, 
Mlsclble- CaMble of being mixed. • 
Minimum — The smaMest, the, 

smallest dose, the opi^osite ot- 

maximum. 
Morbid— Unhealthy. , . 

Morbus— A disease ; hence camera' 

morbus, a disease of the bow'dls. 
Mucus— Fluid secreted by ma6iMis> 

membranes. 
Muriatic- Having reference to sea' 

salt. 

Muriatic Acid — Acid prepared 

from common salt, often called 
hydrochloric acid. 

Muscle— Bundles of fibres, produc- 
ing motion in animals. 

Muscular — Having reference to 
the muscles, strongly built. 

Myrrh — A resinous gum. 

Narcotic— Stupefying, producing 

sleep. 

Narcotics allay pain and produce 

sleep. 
Nasal— Of the nose. 
Nausea— Sickness of the stomach. 
Nauseant — That which prodocea 

nausea. 

Navel— Center of the abdomen.- 
Necrosis- Death of a bone. 
Nephritis — Inflammation of the 
kidneys. 

Nervine— That which will allay, or 
soothe nervous excitement. 

Nervous— Easily excited. 

Neuralgia— Pain in nerves. 

Nlsus— Effort, attempt, to expel 
anything from body. 



528 



Medical Dictionary. 



Nitrate — Nitric acid combined 

with alkalies or alkalin* laits. 
Nitre— 8altpet«r, 

Nocturnal — Occnrring i n t h e 

Di^ht. 

Nosology — The claMiflcation o f 

disnases. 

Nostrum— A quack preparation, 
usually of the patent order. 

NuduB— Nude, without clothing. 

Nucleolus — A central granule or 
spot within a uueleut. 

Nutrition— Nouriahment. 



Obesity — Corpulence, excess of 

fat, or flesh. 
Obstetrics— The science of mid- 

wiff-ry. 
Ocbre— An ore of iron. 
Oculist— An eye doctor. 
OculUB— The eye. 
(Esophagus — The tube leading 

from the throat to the stomach. 
Oleaginous— Oily. 
Omentum — The caul, peritoneal 

covering of the intestines. 
Ophthalmia— DisMie of the aye, 

inflammation of the e/a. 
Opbthalmos— The eye. 
Optic Nerve— The nene which en- 
ters the back part of the eye. 
Organic — Pertaining to produce 

by organs. 
Organized -Furnished with life. 
Orgasm— The closing excitement 

of sexual connection. 
Orifice— An opening. 
Os — Mouth as of the womb, or 

uterus. 
Osseous— Bony. 

Osslflcatlon— Formation of bone ; 

from OS, a bone. 
Ostalgia— Pain in tha bone. 
Osteoma— Tumor of a bone. 
Ostitis— Inflammation of a bone. 
Otorrhea — Discharge from the 

ear. 

Oviparous— Birds, or any animals 
that produce their young from 
eggs or by egga. 

Ovum— An egg. 

Oxalic Acid— An acid found in sor- 
rel, -very poisonous. 

Oxide— A combination of oxygen 
with a metal or other substance. 

Oxygen- One of the elements con- 
tained in the air and water. 

Ozena— Fetid alcer in the nose, 
with very fetid discharge. 

Ozone — Oxygen in the nascent 
state, or with its chemical activ- 
ity otherwise intensified (dyna- 1 
mized). I 



Pabulum— Food ; aliment. 

Palliative— Affording relief only. 

Palpitation — Unhealthy, or un- 
natural beating of the heart. 

Panacea— Remedy for all diseases. 

Paralysis— Loss of motion ; numb 
palsy. 

Paroxysm— An increased fit of dis- 
eaBe. occurring at certain periods. 

Parturients— (Ecbolics). 

Parturition - Child-birth. 

Partus — Labor; the young when 
brought forth. 

Pathological— Morbid, diseased. 

Pectoral— Pertaining to the breast. 

Pediluvium— A foot-bath. 

Pendulous— Hanging down. 

Pepsin — A peculiar substance in 
the stomach, which aids diges- 
tion. 

Peptic— Digestive ; promoting di- 
geation. 

Percolation— The process of run- 
ning, or drawing a liquid through 
some substance. 

Pericardium— Sac containing the 
heart. 

Fericarditla— Inflammation of the 

pericardium. 
Perineal— Relating to the region 

of the perineum. 

Periodicity— Returning at a cer- 
tain time. 

Per io steum— The membrane which 
covers all bones. 

Peristaltic- The peculiar worm- 
like movement of the intestines. 

Peritonitis— Inflammation of lin- 
ine membrane of bowels. 

Perturbation— Disturbance. 

Perversion — An unhealthy change; 
a change from its proper or nat- 
ural course. 

Pessary— That which will support 
or hold up the womb in pro- 
lapsus. 

Phagedenic — Eating and fast 
spreading, as an ulcer. 

Pharmacy — The art of combining 
and preparing medicines. 

Phlegm — Mucus from the bron- 
chial tubes and throat. 

Phlogistic— Tending to inflamma- 
tion. 

Phosphate — Phosphoric acid in 
combination with bases, as phos- 
phate of iron, phosphate of lime, 
etc. 

Phosphorus— An inflammable and 
luminous substance, prepared 
from bones. 

FhthislQ — A waetipg ; consump- 
tion. 



Medical Dictionary. 



529 



Piles— Tnmors at or in the anus ; 

somotimes protruding. 

Pipeline — The active principle 
prepared from black pepper, con- 
sidered valuable in ague. 

Placebo— A remedy to gratify the 
patient. 

Placenta— After-birtb. 

Pletbora ~ Over- fu line 8s; if 
healthy, causing obesity, corpu- 

Plethoric— Full of blood. Fleshy. 

Pleura— The serous membrane cov- 
ering the lungs, and folded npon 
the sides. 

Pleuritis — Inflammation of the 
pleura; pleurisy. 

Pneumonia— Inflammation of the 
lungs. 

Podophyllln -The active principle 
made from the podophyllum pel- 
tatum, mandrake root. 

Potassium— The basis of potash. 
It is a metal. 

Potus— A drink; hence, potion, a 
medicated drink. 

Predisposition— A tendency to a 
certain disease. 

Pregnancy— The condition of be- 
ing with child. 

Prognosis — The art of knowing 
how a disease will terminate. 

Prolapsus— A falling. 

Prolapsus Uteri- Falling of the 
uterus. 

Pruritis- A skin trouble causing 

intense itching. 
Prussiate— A salt formed by a base 

with prussic acid. 
Prussic Acid— Hydrocyanic acid; 

one of, or the most virulent poison 

in existence. 
Psora— The itch. 

Puberty— Full growth; mature age. 
Pubes — The prominence of the 

lower front part of the body in 

females. 

Pudendum— The organs of genera- 
tion. 

Puerperal— Belonging to or conse- 
quent on child-birth. 

Pulmonitis— Inflammation of the 
lung or lungs. 

Pulmonary- Relating to the lungs, 
as pulmonary balsam, pulmonic 
wafers, etc. 

Pupil— The dark circle in the eye. 

Purgative— A cathartic. 

Pus— Matter discharged by sores, 
abscesses, etc. 

Pustule— A slight elevation, hav- 
ing pns. 

Putrefaction — Decomposition by 



rotting. 



34 



Putrid— Rotten; decomposed. 

Puerperal— Belonging to or conse- 
quent upon child-birth. 

Pyemia— Poisoning by absorption 
of pus. 

Quassia— A bitter tonic; the chips 
of the wood are used. 

Rachitis- Rickets, bending of the 
spine, and sometimes the long 
bones of the limbs; may be also 
connected with enlargement of 
the head, etc. 

Radius— One of the bones of the 
forearm. 

Radix— A root. 

Ramus— A branch. 

Ramification— The act of branch- 
ing. 

Rancidity— State of being rancid, 
stale ; applied to oil, fat, butter, 
etc. 

Rasb— A redness of the skin in 

patches. 

Ratsbane — Arsenions acid ; ar- 
senic. 

Recession — Striking in of the 
blood, or disease going to the in- 
ternal organs. 

Rectum— The lower portion of the 
intestines. 

Refrigerant— Cooling as of medi- 
cine or drink. 

Regimen— Kegulation of diet and 
habits. 

Relapse — Recurrence of disease 
after an improved appearance. 

Relaxation— Losing the healthy 
tone of any part, or the whole sys- 
tem. 

Reproduction — Generation ; pro- 
creation. 

Respiration— The act of breath- 
ing, including both inspiration 
and expiration. 

Retching— An effort to vomit. 

Retention— Delay of the natural 
passage of the urine or feces. 

Revulsion— The drawing away of 
disease, as by blisters, irritating 
plasters, etc. 

Rheumatism — Inflammation of 
the fibrous tissues, mostly con- 
fined to the large joints. 

Rochelle Salts— A chemical mix- 
ture of tartrate of potash and 
soda. 

Rubefacients — Medicines which 
cause redness of the skin, as mus- 
tard, radish leaves, etc. 

Rupture— Hernia ; by some called 
a breach. 



530 Medical a 

Saccbarlne— HaTing the proper- 
ties of Bugar. 

Saliva — Th« lecretion of the 
mouth, spittle. 

Salt— ▲ compound of an acid with 
a base. 

Saltpeter— Nitrate of potash. 

Salubrious— Favorable to health. 

Sanative— Curative, healing. 

Sanguineous — Bloody ; sanguin- 
eous discharge, as bloody-fiaz. 

Santonins— A powder obtained 
from worm-seed. 

Sarcoma— A fleshy tumor, gener- 
ally of a cancerous nature. 

Scabies— The itch. 

ScirrhUB— A hard tumor, generally 
of • cancerous nature. 

Scrofula— A constitutional tend- 
ency to disease of the glands, par- 
ticularly of the neck. 

Scrotum— The sac which encloses 
the testicles. 

Sedative — Depressing, the oppo- 
site of stimulating. 

Sedatives depress nervous power 
or lower circulation. 

Slalogogues increase the flow of 
saliva. 

Slough— Death of a part, allowing 
it to come out from the healthy 
part. 

Saake Root— Common or Virginia 
snalce-root ; but black snake-root 
is the black cohosh. 

loporiflcs induce sleep. 

Spasm— Cramp or convulsion. 

Specific- A remedy having a uni- 
form special action. 

Sperm — Seminal fluid, now more 
often called the semen, seed. 

Spina — The backbone ; hence spine. 

Stimulant— A medicine calculated 
to excite an increased and healthy 
action. 

Stimulants temporarily excite the 
nervous or circulatory system. 

Stitch— A spasmodic pain. 

Stomatitis— Inflammation of the 
mouth. 

Strangulation— The state of chok- 
ing; also applied to hernia, which 
cannot be reduced. 



Styptic— Having the power to stop 
bleeding. 

Sudor — Sweat ; hence, sudorific, 
inducing sweat. 

Sudorlflcs— (Diaphoretics). 

Sulphate — A chemical combina- 
tion of a base with sulphuric acid. 

Sulphuric Acid— OU of vitriol. 

Suppuration— The process of in- 
flammation, by which pus is 
formed. 

Symptom— A sign of a disease. 
Syncope— Swooning ; fainting. 

Tonics gradually and permanently 

improve digestion and nutrition. 
Tannic Acid— An acid obtained 

from oak bark ; an astringent. 
Tartaric Acid — An acid from 

cream of tartar, found in grapes. 
Tenesmus— Difficulty and pain at 

stool, with a desire to go to stool 

often. 

Therapeutics — Branch of medi- 
cine. BelatLng to a knowledge of 
treating disease. 

Thorax— The chest. 

Tibia— The large bone of the lower 
leg, shinbone. 

Tonic— A medicine which increases 
the strength of the system. 

Tonsils— Glands on each aide of 
the throat. 

Trachea— The windpipe. 

Translation— The act of transfer- 
ring disease to some other part. 

Triturate— To rub into a powder. 

Tumor— A morbid enlargement of 
a part. 

Ureter — Duct leading from the 

kidney to the bladder. 
Urethra— Duct leading out from 
• the bladder. 
Uterus— The womb. 

Vagina — The passage from the 

womb to the vulva. 
Vermifuges kill and expel worms. 
Virus— Contagious poison. 
Vulva — External opening of the 

female genitals. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



A Page. 

Accidents tffid emergencies... 88 

Advice to cooka 404 

Advice to weary women 41 

Ague 180 

Ailing child 230 

Air contamination 82 

Airing the sleeping room 346 

Air, pure 33 

Alcohol, effects of 185 

Almond Meal 264 

Alopecia 180 

Alum, medical qualities. .116, 236 

American Golden Rod Ill 

American Poplar 113 

Amusements 318 

Angel of the home 25 

Animals we drink in water.. 86 
Ante, how to destroy ...505, 506 

Apoplexy 163, 180 

Appetite, loss of 180 

Apple Butter 471 

Apple Snow 482 

Arrangement, gift of 28 

Arrow Root 208 

Art of breathing 38 

Art of cooking 400 

Art of happy living 27 

As I grow old 56 

Asthma 135, 136, 180 

Asthma (see Lobelia) 120 

Asthma (see Saltpetre) 124 

Autumn Leaves 344 

B 

Bad Breath 163, 268 

Baking Soda, medicinal 123 

Bandages, different kinds . . . 103 

Barb Wire Cuts 96 

Barber's Itch 180 

Bath, Morning 62, 66 

Baths, different kinds.. 67, 69, 70 

Bathing 63 

Bathing, rules for 68 

Beautiful Form, to acquire.. 252 

Beautiful Women 64 

Beauty 250 

Beauty Evanescent 253 

Beauty in the Bath 64 

Bed Bags, how to get rid of. E02 
Bed Hammock for Sick 203 



Paga. 

Bed Room, ear* «f MS 

Bed Sores 180 

Bed Wetting 248 

Beef, how to pickle 409 

Beef Tea 475 

Be Good to Yourself 56 

Beneath the Finger Nails 74 

Benefit of Poultices 100 

Bicycle Exercise 55 

Bilious Attacks 151, 180 

Biliousness (see Dandelion).. 115 

Bills of Fare 483 

Black Elder, medicinal 114 

Blackheads 258, 261 

Blacking for Boots and Shoes 394 

Bladder, catarrh of 180 

Bladder, inflammation of (see 

Sassafras) 132 

Bleeding, how to stop $8 

Bleeding (see Alum) 116 

Blues, cure for 51 

Boils, cure for 104, 181 

Boneset, medicinal 116 

Books and Music 331 

Borax, antiseptic, etc Ill 

Borax, ruinous to kidneys ... 112 

Borax, use in kitchen 366 

Boston Brown Bread 479 

Bottle Feeding 225 

Bowels, disorder of (see Flax- 
seed) 118 

Bowels, disorder of (see Lime) 120 
Bowels, inflammation of. .181, 223 

Bowel Trouble 234 

Brass, how to keep clean, 368, 369 

Bread 434 

Breakfast Cakes 436 

Breathing, art of 38 

Breathing, deep 38 

Breathing, systematic 39 

Bright' s Disease 148 

Broken Bones 96 

Bronchitis 181 

Bruisos and Sprains, 104,106,181, 197 

Builders' Rules 378 

Bunions, how to cure 290 

Burdock 114 

Burns 94, 95 

Burns (see Black Elder) 114 

Burns (see Glycerine) 113 

Burns (see Kerosene) 119 

Business Men 60, 61 



531 



632 



Alphabetical Index. 



Page. 

Buttermilk 475 

Buazlng IB Ears 181 

C 

Cabbage Worm*, how to de- 
stroy 511 

Cake-baking Rules 437 

Cakes, how to make 438 

Camphor, medicinal 114 

Canaries, disease and cure.. 382 

Canaries, how to raise 3S2 

Cancers 157, 1!41 

Cancer (see Red Clover) 110 

Candies, how to make 4SG 

Candies, homemade best 4SG 

canker of Mouth 181 

Canned Fruits, caution for... 4C7 

Canning Fruits 4G7 

Carbuncles lOii, 233 

Carpet Cleaning Mixture .... 377 
Carpet Bugs, how to extermi- 
nate 498 

Carpets, how to clean ....370, 377 

Carpet Sponging 376 

Car Sickness 361 

Catarrh Cure 141, 181 

Catnip 115 

Catsup 429 

Cayenne Pepper, Condiment. . . 115 

Cayenne Pepper, Medicine 115 

Chapped Hands ;....269, 271 

Charcoal 357 

Charity 52 

Cheerfulness and Health, 238, 254, 331 
Cheerfulness, crowning grace 331 

Chicken Broth 476 

Chicken Cholera 515 

Chicken Pox 181, 241 

Chilblains, how to cure 2SP 

Children, diseases of 229 

Children, healthy, vigorous 

and beautiful 227 

Children, training 331 

Chill and Fever (see Boneset) 116 

Chinese Doctors 177 

Choking 94 

Cholera Morbus 164 

Cholera of Children (see 

Peppermint) 122 

Chorea 181 

Cigarette Smoking 189, 190 

Cinnamon 115 

Cleanliness 60, 81 

Clothes, how to take measure 

. for 385, 386 

Clothes Moths, how to destroy 499 

Clover Tea Ill 

Coal Gas Suffocation 94 

Coffee 45, 433 



Page, 

Coffee Cake 435, 441 

Cold Air 36 

Cold Cream 264 

Cold Dinners 485 

Cold Feet 290 

Cold, how to cure 141 

Cold in Chest 181 

Cold in the Head 145. 181 

Colds and Fever 36 

Colds (see Camphor) 114 

Colds (see Catnip) 115 

Colds (see Eggs) 112 

Colds (see Flaxseed) 118 

Colds (see Garlic) 114 

Colds (see Glycerine) 113 

Clods (see Ginger) 117 

Colds (see Horehound) Ill 

Colds (see Lemon Juice) 108 

Colds (see Lobelia) 120 

Cold Water, how to us^ 175 

Colic 181, 196, 234 

Colic in Adults 125, 126 

Colic in Children 126, 182 

Colic (see Camphor) 114 

Colic (see Cinnamon) 115 

Colic (see Ginger) 116 

Colic (see Magnesia) 120 

Colic (see Olive Oil) 119 

Colic (see Peppermint) 122 

Complexion, hints on 256, 259 

Conditions of Health 46 

Condition of Many Wells 85 

Constipation, 132, 152, 181, 182, 

196 238 

Coustipation (see Black Elder) 114 
Constipation (see Dandelion). 115 
Constipation (see Rhubarb) . 120 
Constipation (see Senna) .... 122 

Consumption 181 

Consumption (see Wild Cherry 123 

Contagious Diseases 74, 75 

Convulsions 92, 181, 213 

Cookies, all kinds 450 

Cooking, art of 401 

Cooks, advice to 404 

Cooks, hints for 401 

Copper, how to shine 368 

Cotton Fabrics, colors "set" 495 

Corn Bread 435, 436 

Corn Cure 289 

Corn, new ways of preparing 427 

Cosmetics 254, 258, 271, 272 

Costiveness 181 

Coughs and Colds ...142, 181, 233 
Coughs and Colds (see 

Dandelion) 115 

Coughs and Colds (see 

Eggs) 112 

Coughs and Colds (see 

Gum Arabic) Ill 



Alphabetical Index. 



53S 



Page. 

Coughs and Colds (see 

Goose Grease) 122 

Coughs and Colds (see 

Hoiehound) Ill 

Coughs and Colds (see 

Pennyroyal) 121 

Coughs and Colds (see 

Sage) 124 

Coughs and Colds (see 

Snakeroot) 122 

Coughs and Colds ' (see 

Wild Cherry) 123 

Cough Syrup 141 

Cracked Wheat 477 

Crackers 480 

Cramps in Legs 126, 198 

Croup 181, 233, 235 

Croup (see Alum) 116 

Croup (see Lime) 120 

Crullers 4S5 

Curative properties of Salt... 108 

Cure for Blues 51 

Currant Worms, how to de- 
stroy 512 

Cystitis 182 



Dandelion 115 

Dandruff 281, 285 

Dandruff (see Borax) Ill 

Dangers of Over-feeding 215 

Deafness 182 

Death Gas in a Well 99 

Decorating with Natural Ob- 
jects 343 

Decorations, home 337 

D«corations, wall 338 

Deep Breathing 38 

Delineator, how to make ... 384 
Delirium Tremens (see Red 

Pepper) 124 

Dentrifice (see Borax) Ill 

Depilatories 271 

Desserts 465 

Developing Healthy Children 224 

Diabetes 147 

Diarrhea 134. 182, 244 

Diarrhea (see Baking Soda).. 123 

Diarrhea (see Blackberry) 114 

Diarrhea (see Camphor) 114 

Diarrhea (see Eggs) 112 

Diarrhea (see Ginger) 117 

Diarrhea (see Oak Bark) 121 

Diarrhea, sure cure 135 

Digestion, time required for.. 44 

Dining Room, the 349 

Diphtheria 182, 238, 240 

Diphtheria (see Lime) 120 

Disease Germs in Drinking 
Water 84 



Page. 

Diseases, kinds, descriptions. 74 

Diseases of Infants 182, 229 

Disinfection 79, 83 

Dislocation 96 

Distinguished Guests 324 

Diuretic (see Gum Arabic) 111 

Diuretic (see Woodsage) 110 

Doilies 350 

Dogwood 117 

Doughnuts 452 

Drains and Sinks 81 

Drains, how to purify 374 

Dress of Ladies 274 

Drink, best 45 

Dropsy 182 

Dropsy (see Horseradish) ... 118 

Dropsy (see Juniper) 118 

Dropsy (see Lemon Juice) 118 

Drowning Person, how to 

treat 97 

Dyeing Cloth, Silk, etc 388 

Dysentery (see Blackberry).. 114 
Dysentery (see Bloody Flux) 

161 182 

Dysentery (see Saltpetre) — 1?4 
Dysentery (see Sassafras) . . . 122 
Dysentery (see Slippery Elm) 110 

Dyspepsia 108 

Dyspepsia, how to cure, 149, 

150, 166, 182 196 

Dyspepsia (see American 

Poplar) 113 

Dyspepsia (see Lime) 1 20 

Dyspepsia (see Magnesia) 120 

Dyspepsia (see Mustard) 120 

Dyspeptics, pie for 482 



Earache 160, 182 

Economics of Health 46 

Eczema 157, 182 

Effects of Wearing Tight 

Shoes 291 

Egg Dishes, new 420 

Eggs as Medicine 112 

Eggs, boiled, poached 481 

Eggs, how to pickle 517 

Egg Lemonade 474 

Emergencies 88, 91 

Emollients . . 264 

Engravings, how to enlarge.. 384 

Epilepsy 182 

Epistaxls 182 

Erysipelas 157, 182 

Etiquette, rules 293, 296 

Etiquette, in speech 299 

Etiquette of Dress and Habits 300 

Etiquette on the Street 301 

Etiquette of Calls 302 

Evils of Over-eating 40 



534 



Alphabetical Index. 



Page. 

Eyebrows and LashM, beauti- 
ful 262 

Eyes, saving the 159 

Eyes, sore, how to doctor. 100, 182 
Eye Water 160 

F 

Face Ache or Neuralgia 182 

Fainting 92 

Family Recipes 361 

Feeding the Sick 206 

Feeding the Unfortunate 

Poor 52 

Felon 105, 106 

Ferns 344 

Fever 183 

Fever (see Boneset) 116 

Fever (see Oak Bark) 121 

Fever and Ague (see Dog- 
wood) 117 

Fever and Ague (see Willow) 123 

Filters, homemade 83 

Finger Nails 74, 269, 272 

Fish, how to cook 415 

Flannels, shrinking 496 

Flannels, washing of 493 

Flatulence 183 

Flax Seed Lemonade 47 

Flaxseed, medicinal 118 

Fleas, how to destroy 497 

Flies, how to destroy 504 

Floors, hardwood, jjare of 373 

Floor, how to stain 372 

Flowers, how to keep fresh.. 383 
Flowers and Flower Seeds. . 509 

Fly Spots, to remove 375 

Food, well cooked 349 

Footwear, pointers on 292 

Foreign Bodies in Ear, Nose, 

Throat 63 

Frecklfts 258, 261 

Freckles (sea Borax) Ill 

Freckles (see Lemon Juice).. 118 

Fritters 435 

Frost Bites 162 

Frosted Windows, to prevent 356 

Frosting, all kinds of 447 

Fruit Ice 482 

Fruit Jars 852 

Fruits, health la 71 

Furniture 339, 840 

Furniture Polish 370, 371 

G 

Gall Stones 18S 

Gapes 516 

Garlic, medicinal 114 

Gas in Well 99 

Giddiness 183 



Page. 

(Jilt Frames, how to sleaa 374 

Ginger Bread 481 

Ginger Snaps > 411 

Gladstone 69 

Glass, to clean 871 

Glass Stoppers, how to re- 
move 875 

Glue, how to make 391, 39S 

Golden Rules for the Kitchen 40J 

Good Behavior, hlnt» on 293 

Goose Grease 128 

Graham Bread 434 

Graham Gems 435, 438 

Grahams 479, 480, 481 

Grasses J44 

Grarel 148 

Gravel (see Saltpetre) 124 

Grease Spots 3C3, 3S5, 49S 

Griddle Cakes 436 

Grippe, how to cure 161 

Gruels 471, 476 

Gum Arabic Ill 

Gymnasium director's adTiee 248 

H 

Hair Brushes 282 

Hair, care of 280, 288 

Hair Dressings 278 

Hair Dyeing 282 

Hair Falling Out 279, 287 

Hairs, gray 212 

Hair Oils and Toni-s, 281, 

284, 285 287 

Hair, structure of 278 

Hair, style of wearing 276 

Hams, how to pickle 409 

Hands, care of 269 

Happy, how to manage to be. 829 

Happy Living, art of 27 

Happiness, length of days ... 62 

Hay Fever 188 

Headaches, cause and cure, 

131, 133 188 

Headaches (see Golden Rod).. Ill 

Health 29, 37 

Health, conditions of 46 

Health, Economics of 46 

Health in Vegetables and 

Fruits 71 

Health, occupatioHS 47 

Health Rules 73 

Healthy Homes 32 

Heartburn 158 

Heartburn (see Baking Soda). 123 

Heartburn (see Lime) 120 

Heartburn (see Magnesia) ... 120 

Heart Disease 18S 

Hectic Fever 183 

Hiccough 183, 232 

Hides, how to tan 388 



Alphabetical Index. 



Page. 

Hints for All 44 

Hints for the Cook 401 

Hints on Seasoning 402 

Hints aod Helps for tlis Sick 

Room 201 

Hoarseness 72, 143, 183 

Hoarseness (see Eggs) 112 

Hoarseness (see Gum Arabic) 111 
Hoarseness (see Goose Grease) 122 
Hoarsenei s (see Horse Kadish), 118 

Home 22 

Home Adornments 337 

Home Atmosphere 28 

Home Made Mattresses 348 

Home Nursing 204 

Home Remedies and How to 

Use Them 107 

Home Remedies and Home 

Treatment for all Diseases. 125 
Home Remedies and Home 
Treatment for Diseases of 

Children 229 

Homeopathic Medicines 179 

Homeopathic Remedies 180 

Hominy 479 

Hooping Cough 183, 242 

Hops, medicinal 117 

Horse Radish, medicinal ... 118 

Hot Milk 476 

Hot Water 367 

Hot Water, how to use as a 

medicine 173 

Hot Water, how to apply, in 

diseases 174 

Hot Water, what it will do. . 175 
Household Measures and 

Weights 354 

Household Hints 356 

House Insects 497 

Housekeeper, the 328 

House Plants 509 

Housewife, a model 329 

How Ladies Should Dress 274 

How to Amuse Children 319 

How to Break a String 373 

How to Carve Ducks, Tur- 

keys etc ■ 413 

How to Cure Earache 160 

How to Cure the Grip 161 

How to Cure Nightmare 126 

How to Cure Snakebite 97 

How to Check Vomiting ... 129 

How to Destroy Microbes 78 

How to Disinfect a Room 79 

How to Develop the Chest 260 

How to Eat Oranges 355 

How to Enlarge Embroidery, 

Engravings, etc 384 

How to Gather and Prepare 
Medicinal Plants and Barks 113 



How to Keep a Baby 121 

How to Keep Well * 

How to Make Childre* 
Healthy, Vigorous and 

Beautiful 2W 

How to Make a Mel* im 

Glass 874 

How to Mix Paints 389 

How to Tell Contagious Dis- 
eases 75 

How to Treat a Drowning 

Person 97 

How to Vaccinate 168 

Hydrophobia 98 

Hygiene of the Bed Room... 848 
Hysteria 183 

I 

Ice Cream 465 

Impure Blood 183 

Incontinence of Urine 147 

Indigestion (see Wild Cherry) 123 
Infants, care and feeding. 210, 213 
Infants, how to preserve 

Health and Life 216, 229 

Influenza 183 

Ingrowing Nails 291 

Inks, different kinds 392 

Ink Stains 365. 397 

Ink Stains (see Household 

Hints) 356 

Ink Stains (see Lemon Juice) 118 
Invitations, how to write ... 312 

Iron, to polish 356 

Iron, to prevent rust on 879 

Itch, how to cure 165, 188 

Itch (see Sulphur) IM 



Jams •••• J71 

Jaundice "l. If* 

Jellies <«9 

Jelly Water 474 

Johnny Cake 436 

Juniper Berry, medicinal 118 



Kalsomine, how to prepare.. 375 

Kerosene Oil 119. 236 

Kerosene Stains in Carpets. 376 
Kidney Affections (see Pars- 
ley) ■ 

Kidney Affections (see Flax- 
seed) 118 

Kidney Troubles 183, 195 

Kidney Weakness (see Tansy) 110 
Kitchen Utensils, care of. 361, 867 
Knives, to clean 352 



536 



Alphabetical Index. 



L Page. 
Lamp Chimneys, how to 

toughen 359 

Lamps, how to care for 358 

Lard and Salt 233 

Late Rising 61 

Laughter, a great tonic 50 

Laundry, in the 491 

Laureline 273 

Lawn, how to improve 509 

Laxative, a palatable 167 

Laxative (see Magnesia) 120 

Laxative (see Mandrake) 121 

Laxative (see Mustard) 120 

Laxative (see Olive Oil) 119 

Laxative (see Rhubarb) 120 

Laxative (see Sulphur) 122 

Lead Colic 183 

Leather, how to improve . . . 396 

Lemonade 474 

Lemon for Felons 105 

Lemon Juice 118, 272 

Leucorrhoea 184 

Lice, how to destroy 516 

Lime, medicinal 120 

Liniments, how to make 169 

Little Mischief 231 

Liver Complaint (see Man- 
drake) 121 

Liver Enlargement 183 

Liver Inactive 183 

Liver, inflammation of (see 

Dandelion) 115 

Lobelia, medicinal 120 

Lobster Cutlets 417 

Lockjaw (see Lobelia) 120 

Lumbago 184 

Lungs, bleeding (see Oak 

Bark) 121 

Lung Fever 137 

Lungs, how to ascertain state 

of 138 

Lungs, Inflammation of 184 

Lung Strengthener 38 

M 

Magnesia 120 

Malaria 140 

Malaria and Water 87 

Mandrake 121 

Marble, how to clean 397 

Marmalade 471 

Massage 192 

Matting, Straw, how to clean 376 

Measles 184, 241 

Measles (see Rhubarb) 120 

Measles (see Snakeroot) 122 

Meats, all kinds 404 

Medical Dictionary 522 

Medicine, history of 176 

Medicines, homeopathic dose. 179 



Page. 



Medicine, how much is a 

dose 178, 179 

Medicine, revolution in prac- 
tice 177 

Method a Servant 331 

Mice, how to get rid of 508 

Microbes or Bacteria 77, 78 

Microscope, revelations of 76 

Mistress, the 340 

Mistress, rules for 332 

Moles 270* 

Mosquitoes 504 

Moth, how to destroy 500, 502 

Moth, to keep from furs 501 

Mother 26 

Mucilage, how to make ...395, 396 

Muffins 436, 479 

Mumps 184, 243 

Mush, different kinds of . .477, 478 

N 

Napkins 350 

Nausea (see Peach Tree 

Bark) 121 

Nauseous Remedies 232 

Neckties, how to clean 387 

Nervousness 156 

Nervousness (see "Wild Cher- 
ry) 123 

Nervous Children 232 

Nervous Debility 184 

Nettle Rash 184 

Neuralgia 129, 182, 183 

Neuralgia (see Kerosene Oil) 119 
Nickel Plate, to polish . .369, 379 

Night Cough, to prevent 145 

Nightmare, how to cure 126 

Night Sweats 164 

Night Sweats (see Sage) 124 

Nose Bleeding 90 

O 

Oak Bark 121 

Oat Meal Tea 474 

Oat Meal Snaps 480 

Obesity 184 

Occupations 47 

Ointments, how to make 168 

Olive Oil 119 

Omelets 418 

Onions, best nervine 72 

Onions, medicinal qualities. . 109 

Onions, roasted 428 

Only a Sprain 104 

Ophthalmia (see Cayenne 

Pepper) 115 

Ophthalmia 184 

Opiates and Nervousness . . . 156 
Oranges, how to eat 355 



Alphabetical Index. 



537 



Page. 

Orange Whey 474 

Orrli Root 496 

Over-«atlng, evils of 40 

Oysters as, 428, 482 



Paints, how to mix 389 

Palpitation of Heart (see 

Wild Cherry) 123 

Palsy (see Horseradish) 118 

Paralysis 184 

Parsley 110 

Parsley after Onions 109 

Patterns, how to take meas- 
ures for 385 

Peach Tree Bark 121 

Pennyroyal, medicinal 121 

Peppermint, medicinal 122 

Perspiration (see Pennyroyal) 121 
Perspiration (see Snakeroot). 122 

Physical Culture 254 

Pickles 430, 432 

Pies 453, 482 

Pie Plant Baked 482 

Piles, how to cure 164, 184 

Pimples 262, 288 

Pimples (see Alum) 116 

Plant Lice, how to destroy.. 512 

Plaster, to fill cracks in 378 

Pleurisy 135, 184, 233 

Pneumonia 137, 233 

Poisoning (see Mustard) 120 

Poisoning 91 

Politeness 309 

Porridge 475 

Potatoes 422 

Potato Dishes 423 

Pot-Pourri of Roses 341 

Poultices, benefit of 100 

Poultice, wood sage 110 

Poultice, slippery elm 110 

Poultice, hops 117 

Poultices, different kinds ...102 

Poultices, how to make 101 

Poultry, diseases and treat- 
ments 514 

Poultry, how to cook all 

kinds 412 

Poultry Pointers 519 

Poultry, rules for keeping.. ..513 

Poultry, what to feed 519 

Practical Health Rules 73 

Practical Rules for Bathing.. 68 

Preserves 472 

Preserving the Figure 247 

Prurigo 184 

Puddings 455, 463. 478, 481 

Pudding Sauces 464 

Pure Air 33 

Purgative (see Senaa) 122 



Q 

Quinsy 163, 184 

Quotatlo* Hunt 324 

R 

Rash 184 

Rats, how to get rid of 507 

Razor, how to sharpen 286 

Reading the Paper 398 

Red Clover, good for cancer. 110 

Red Pepper, medicinal 124 

Refrigerators 83 

Remittent Fever 18* 

Rest, wisdom and beauty in. . 49 

Retention of Urine 184 

Rheumatic Fever 183 

Rheumatism 155, 184 

Rheumatism (see Turpentine) 112 
Rheumatism (see American 

Poplar) 113 

Rheumatism (see Black El- 
der) 114 

Rheumatism (see Camphor).. 114 
Rheumatism (see Horserad- 
ish) 118 

Rheumatism (see Lemon 

Juice) 118 

Rheumatism (see Kerosene 

Oil) 119 

Rheumatism (see Snakeroot). 122 

Rheumatism (see Saltpetre).. 124 

Rhubarb, medicinal 120 

Ribbons, how to clean 387 

Rice, boiled 479 

Rice Dishes 421, 478, 479 

Rice Pudding 459, 479 

Rickets 184 

Ring Games 321 

Ringworm 184 

Round Shoulders, cure 249 

Rust, to remove from steel . . 369 

Rustic Flower Stand 342 

Rusty Nail or Wire, injury 

from 162 

S 

Sage, medicinal 124 

Salads 430 

Salivation 185 

Salmon, baked 417 

Salmon, canned 415 

Salt, uses in kitchen 357 

Salt as a Nervine 72 

Salt, curative properties 108 

Salt for Toothache lOS 

Saltpetre, medicinal 124 

Salves, healing, how to make 171 

Sanitation 81 

Sassafras 122 

Sauerkraut 428 



538 



Alphabetical Index. 



Page. 

Sausages 410 

Scarlatina 185 

Scarlet Fever 183, 233, 238, 239 

Scarlet Fever (see bnakeroot), 122 

Sciatica 185 

Sciatica (see Kerosene Oil).. 119 

Scrofula (see Burdock) 114 

Scrofula (sea Juniper; 118 

Scrofula (see Oak Bark) 121 

Scurvy, remedy for 71 

Sea Sickness (eee Red Pepper), 124 

Seasoning, hints on 402 

Senna 122 

Servant Question 334 

Servant, rules for 333 

Sewing Box 342 

Shaving, hints on 286 

Shirt Bosoms, how to polish 492 

Sick Headache 131, 134 

Silk, how to clean 387 

Silk, how to wash 387, 495 

Silver, how to shine 368 

Silverware 352 

Sinks, how to purify 353, 374 

Skin Diseases (see Burdock). 114 
Skin Diseases (see Juniper)., 118 
Skin Diseases (see Lime) ... 120 
Skin Diseases (see Oak Bark) 121 
Skin Diseases (see Baking 

Soda) 123 

Skin Diseases (see Saltpetre) 124 

Skin Troubles 257 

Sleep 53 

Sleep, need of 54 

Sleeping Rooms 54, 346 

Sleep, how to induce 55 

Sleeplessness 127, 185 

Sleeplessness (see Hops) 117 

Slippery Elm 110 

Small Pox 158 

Snake Bite, how to cure 97 

Snake Root 122 

Soap, how to make 492 

Social Duties 306 

Soda, washing 357 

Sore Throat, how to cure, 147, 185 

Sore Throat, remedy for 146 

Sore Throat (see Salt) 108 

Sore Throat (see Goose Grease), 122 
Sore Throat (see Snake-root) 122 
Sore Throat (see Saltpetre).. 124 

Soup Making 405, 424, 425 

Soups for the Sick 476 

Sprain* 91, 104, 105 

Sprains (see Kerosene Oil).. 119 

Sprains (see Spruce Beer) 361 

Stains, removing all kinds.. 362, 363 

Starch, improved 495 

Statuary, how to clean 397 

Steel, to prevent rust on 379 



Page. 

Steel, to remove rust from.. 868, 869 

Stewed Chicken 414 

Stimulant (see Mandrake) . . 121 
Stings, Insect, how to cure, 185, 504 
Stomach, acidity of (see Mag- 
nesia) 120 

Stomach, disorder of 176 

Stomach or Bowels, pain In, 

(see Sweet Flag) 123 

Stomach, sour (see Baking 

Soda) 123 

Stomach's Plea 152 

Stoves, how to clean 359 

Stoves, how to keep from 

rusting 359 

Strangulation 93 

String, how to break 373 

Successful Life 26 

Sulphur 122 

Summer Complaint 244 

Sunburn 260 

Sunlight and Health 29 

Sunstroke 94, 185 

Superfluous Hair 270 

Sweet Flag 123 

Sweet Little Woman of Mine 27 

Sweet Peas 510 

Sweet Potato Dishes 424 



T 

Table Linen, how laundered.. 494 

Table Manners 304 

Take Life as It Comes 256 

Tan, how to remove 258, 261 

Tapioca Milk 474 

Tarts 454 

Tea 45 

Tea, how made 433 

Tea Stains, to remove 366 

Teeth, cleaning the 266 

Teeth, care of 265, 268 

Teeth, facts about 267 

Teething, difficult 182, 226, 244 

Tidyness 60. 61 

Time Required for Digestion 44 

Tin, how to shine 368, 369 

Tinware 352 

Toasts 480 

Toasts, different kinds 480 

Toast Water 474 

Toilet Hints 263 

Tomatoes 428, 429, 482 

Tongue, coated 185 

Tonics (see American Poplar) 113 

Tonics (see Boneset) 116 

Tonics (see Horehound) Ill 

Tonics (see Mandrake) 121 

Tonics (see Peach Tree Bark) 121 



Alphabetical Index. 



539 



Page. 

Tosthacbe 185 

Toothache (se« CUtnasioii) . . 115 

Toothache (sm Salt) 10« 

Toothpicks 267 

Tooth Powder 2»6, 268 

Tuberculosis 185 

Turkey, roasted 410 

Turpentine, medicinal quali- 
ties 112 

Turpentine, cleansing proper- 
ties 495 

Typhoid Fever 140 

Typhoid Fever, how to nurse 139 
Typhus Fever 185 



Ulcers (see Oak Bark) 121 

Urinary Difficulties 185 



Vaccination 158 

Varnish, how to remove old. . 374 

Vegetable Diet 42 

Vegetable Dishes 426 

Vegetables, health in 71 

Vegetable Soups 424 

Ventilation 34, 35 

Vermifuge 237 

Vinegar, how to make 380 

Vomiting, how to check . .128, 185 
Vomiting (sea Peach Tree Bark) 121 



W Page. 

Waffles 436 

WarHlng to Mothers 215 

Warts, how to remove.. 106, 18-3, 270 
Water Brash (see Baking Soda), 123 

Water, to purify 367 

Water, ket and oold, how to 

use 173, 175 

Weary Women, advice to 41 

Whitewash, how to make.. .374, 875 

Whitlow 185 

Whooping Cough 185, 242 

Whooping Cough (see Hore- 

hound) Ill 

Whooping Cough (see Garlic) 114 

Why Don't You Laugh 51 

Why People Die Before 

Their Time 57 

Wild Cherry 123 

Willow, medicinal 123 

Wisdom and Beauty in Rest. . 49 

Woman 25 

Woman's Influence 60 

Wood, how to polish 374 

Woodsage 110 

Worms 185, 237 

Wounds 90, 91, 182 



Yard and Garden 



509 



Zinc, how to polish 379 



6515 1 
6513 4 



ARy Of MtOlCINE NATIi 



NA^lO^• 



'I 

■J 

1*N 



NAIIONAL IIBRARV OF 




i LIBRARY Of 

>i< 



\ 



rVDflll IWNQIIVN 



<t Of MEDIClNe 



I 

o 

r 



V 

NATIONAL II 



-7 




I 



